THE WEATHER FORECAST. 1
Fair to-day j to-morrow partly overcast
and warmer; moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 53 ; lowest, 44.
Pol a II Mi weather, mall and marine report on pafce 11,
he
IT SHINES FOP ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 67.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1916. Copyright, 1918, by th$ Bun rrintlng and PubUihlng Amoctnllon.
ONE CENT
1
,7wr t'Hy anil Nrnark, TWO CKNTA
A NEW KINGDOM
OF POLAND BY
TEDTON DECREE
German and Austrian Em
perors Proclaim an In
dependent State.
COMPKISKS ONLY THE
M'SSIAN PROVINCES
The Official Announcement
Blames Muscovites for
"Ilnle of Knout."
8AVS POLKS WAITED
CENTURY IX VAIN
Central Empires Expect Hip;
Aid in Fighting Against
Russia.
Birxi.v, by wireless. Nov. 3. "Polish
province occupied by troop of the'
Ctntril Powcik," says the Overseas'
. Agency, "weie the scene to-day
of a momentous historic event. Clcr
m.iny and Austtit-lliingary bv Joint
ii'tlmi proti ilmcd Wnrww and I.ttb
l.n tao kingdom of Poland nnd rces
t uhshrd tin- right of the Polish nation
tn rintrnl its own destinies, to live an I
lidcp ndent national life nnd to govern
ltclf ilioseu representatives of the
nation I
"A few ila.vs ngo a Polish delegation '
hid cillcil upon the Impeilal Chancel-to-.
Dr. Min Hothmnnn-Hnllvvog. Its
members were representative Poles of
all tlussos, ,n parties, nil ranks of ho- '
tie'v anil all reeds. They transmitted
to the German Government the wishes
o.' 'ho Polish nation which now have .
dth granted to them.
Itiilr of KiioiiI Mxitlahril."
"Thus ancient Kingdom of Poland,
from which In the past came famous
ruler like the .Ingcllonrs (a dynasty
luuimi-ii i,y .ingeno winch iclgned In Po
.snd from US'! to i..;j and glorious!
Millers lll:e the ureal Sobtcskl (John
III. Kins of Poland In I674-I69C). Is now i
rmirrected to new life. The Poles are'
free from Iluslri oppression; no more'
iu mi- irtMiiien minor ine neels or the Cos
'' The liberty that had been de
sPovcd a century ago on Russian Insil
rai 3i now Is restored. The rule of the
to at lias been Hbollshed. Poland has
two slvcn back to western civilization."
Tin manifesto declaring the Indepcnd
r of Poland Is as follows:
II ' Majesty the German Emperor and
h Majesty the Emperor of Austria and
Apnr (' King of Hungary, Inspired by
fl i" M.lldeuee In a final victory of their
i ii' l prompted by a desire to lead
is a s' lets conquered by their armies
ii -If heavy s.ti'rinecs from Russian
in'ii. latmn toward a happy future, have
v ii mi i in in oi mcse districts a na
' St.i'e with a hereditary mnnarohvt
fid a niibtltutlon.il government. The
n frontiers of the Kingdom of Po-
Id .I1 11 11 h fillttlnil Inl.i- I
"V new kingdom will receive th
cua,,ipte needed for the free develop-irt-"
of Uh own forces by Its Intimate
Mai oik with both Powers. The glorious
tradition of the nnclent Potlsh armies
nd 'hi' memory of the brave comrade
',i a Hie ureal war of our days will
e leaned In a national army. The or
tin i.itl in. Instruction and command of
!. a my will bo arranged by common
Fr.eim-tit.
!) I'liipiiiriil of Kliiicdnm.
T - allied monarch expreis the con
'le mp,. that Polls.li wishes for the
'hi' a or a Polish Slate and fur the
' oi.al development of n Polish klng
'I 'in vv II now be fulfilled, taking due
nl'!eratin:i or the general political con
'I oim prevailing n Europe and of the
'-'fine ami the safety of their own
conntrle" and nation.
Tie treat realm which the western
r-'b-,ri of the kingdom of Poland will
y e cm their em-tern frontier will be n
f'e ami happy Ktatc, enjoylnc Its own
ral ma life, and theywlll welcome with
J'v Uie )! th and proupcrous develop
""( of this State,"
T' fni.orHcll Sordtlnutsclir Allege'
"'in- ntung. In a leading article en
H'lo) "Poland's Hour of Fate," says:
'ne hundred years ago, as the result
ef 'he Poneress of Vienna, Poland's fate
r' ,, ,1C hHritn ( ituFnla. but now
ne nd s freedom Is Inseparably linked
'"J'ther with tho victory of Germany
""I her allies.
'Onl 'he Central Powers have a vital
hi the existence of a free To
'nri, The Poles are now free from
it'ii'sun domination and hava an oppor
tunity to form a national State, to eslab-onn'-ctlons
with the Central Pow
T, and, protected by these relations, to
remote their political and economic life
M develop their national civilization.
ninnies llnsala for Neglect.
"l.r these purposes during the near
'"jr Poles will need our help. Un
"i' P.cimlan domination no Polish ad
"' ration, no Polish schools and no
' army were admitted, and the
'" 'i"i In this naj tried to hinder the
d'1 'ptneiii of Kpeclal bodies for the
n "K out of these tasks. The flus
' t.rsierted the construction of rail
rialii and waterways. Everywhere a
if public life and admlnlsttatlon
r )' tie en-ated out of nothing and the
rr' ' rn Hon of n Polish national life
h.i i uroceeil (.teji by step.
' I was not the 'protectors of small
fa' that restored Polund to Its own'
1. 1' a at evolution, but those two Powers
which the enemy appealed to the
i a' inns of the world. The western
1'iiw-r h'mwid only their sympathy for
1 and in word". Many times the cry
v i Polngne' was shouted In the
u' ' hi leal obligations for Poland
"' 'chilly nMildcd. Kvery time the
l' i on iid Into the struggle for Inde
l idi iui. and hoped for help from Un
'ion and J'urls It became evident they
Continued on fourth Page,
SIR BRYAN MAHON IS
ARMY HEAD IN IRELAND
Popular General Succeeds Sir
John Maxwell as Com
mander of Forces.
I.oNnN, Nov. 5. It I officially an
nounced that Lleutenant-Gcncral Sir
Hryan Malion, commander of Iho British
forcea on the western frontier In Egypt,
hat been appointed to succeed Major
General 8lr John Maxwell an commander
of the British farces In Ireland. Ocn.
Maxwell la appointed commander In
chief of the northern command In Knit
land. It Is nlfo announced officially that
Gen. Hlr V, Iteglnald Wlngate, Sirdar
of Egypt, has been nppolnted IIIkIi Com
missioner for Egypt In succession to
Lieutenant-Colonel Hlr Arthur Henry
MacMahon.
The appointment of Sir Hran Malinn
will undoubtedly be well received In
Ireland, where It will be tnken as an
answer to the recent appeals of the
Irish leaders that a man more hi sym
pathy with and having a dearer under
standing of the character of the people
be appointed commander of the llrltlsh
forces In the Island. Sir Itryan Is a
"Oalway boy" and a lyplcal Irish sports
man. He has had a distinguished ca
reer In the army, a dashing cavalryman
always found In the thick of the fighting
and when not righting finding relaxation
In hunting, polo, pig sticking and
steeplechase riding. In October, t!15,
he was put In command of the llrltlsh
forces In Serbia.
He Is one of the military Idols of the
empire, having led the flying column
that relieved Mafeklug in the Doer
war. Earlier In his career he won dis
tinction In the Sudan, taking part In
Kitchener's Khartum expedition and the
Kordofan expedition and the capture of
the Kallfa. lis was Colonel of the cel
ebrated Eighth Tlussars, at the begin
nlns of the war and afterward com
manded the Tenth (Irish) Dlilslon.
GALE PUTS SCORES .
OF LIVES IN PERIL
Fishermen in Small Boats Res
cued by Const Guard
Thrilling Episodes.
Sweeping suddenly down out of the
northeast, a gale yesterday Imperilled
the lives of scores of fishermen, driving
some of their boats ashore and lealrg
others helpless In the trough of the
heavy seas.
Six such small boat" called for the
help of the eoat guard station at Sandy
Hook, nnd another was saved by the
guards of the TakanaK.ee xlatlon north
of Long Itranch, N. .1. Some of the
rescues were maiked by thrilling ep
hodes. Thirty-three amateur fl-hermen were
aboard the motor boat .Mary H. Combs
of Jerey City when the storm broke.
The engine got out of older and the boat
was he'plcs, pe tlew distress signals
nnd the Sandy Hook guards el out In
their power boat to make the icscue, but
the eas drove the Combs ashore so
rapidly that before the coast guards
came up she grounded and the tiher
men waded thiough the i-urf to the
beach.
The steamer Calabria, outward bound,
stopped and put out lifeboats for the
rescue of five men from a launch which
was In distress off the Homer light. The
coast guards were on their way at the
time. The five tlxhermen weie trans,
ferred to the steam pilot boat ouflde
the bar and fent luck to New York.
The Sandy Hook guards then In turn
towed the Anna E. of New York, the
America of Shccpshead Hay nnd the
power boat Stout to safe anchorage
Inside the hook. Each of these bad
about twenty. five men aboard and each
was having trouble.
The last call. Just before darkness set
In, seemed the most urgent. The Mon.
mouth Heach. Sea Bright and Spenna.
cetll Cove stations In turn tried to get
their surf boats out to a launch which
was flying signals of distress off Sea
brlghti but they were unable to get be
yond the shore brrakeis. So word was
sent to the Sandy Honk guards under
(.'apt. Tillon to try It In their power boat.
They reached the boat, a small fishing
launch with four men aboard, at about
H o'clock and It was lu:IU o'clock be
fore they reached the station with the
tow. The fishermen were exhausted
and had to be attended by the life
guards. Capt. Fritz Hryant nnd eight men In
the one masted sloop Lucille were saved
by tho guards of the Takanassee station
after three hours of drifting In the storm
with the craft disabled. The fishermen
expected their boat would be smashed
against the fishing pier at Ixnnr Jirnnch
when the guards reached them and
passed them a line. The sloop then was
towed to safety.
It set out from Stapleton, Statcn
Island, at R:30 o'clock yesterday morn
Ins. The sloop's anchor parted soon
after the banks were reached nnd the
craft shipped water, putting the bat
teries out of commission. Capt. Bryant
and his crew praised the coast guard
men, saying they would have perished
If help had not come.
WAENS FOOD PRICE BOOSTERS.
Department of Justice Hint of a
Conspiracy.
Wasihnoton, Nov. 5. A statement In
the nature of n -warning from the
Attorney-General was forthcomln from
the Department of Justice to-day giving
notice that the Federal Government will
Invoke the severest penalties prescribed
by law aealnst persons who conspire to
raise the price of food nnd coal.
Tho statement authorized by the Attorney-General
follows:
"The Department of Justice Is Investi
gating the recent abnormal and sus
picious Increases In prices of various
necci-sarlea of life, especially coal.
Wherever any such Increase Is found to
have been due to conspiracy or other
unlawful action the Department will In
voke against the offenders the severest
penalties w hlch tho law prescribes."
Frent'7 Oornpr Greek Town.
Salonica. via IjOwIoji, Nov, 5. A
French battalion arrived at Katerlna to
day and occupied tho town.
It la believed that the Itoyallst and the
Venlsellst troops will leave Immediately
and thus solve the embarrassing situa
tion which haa arisen tta a, result of the
conflict between th Royalists and the
VtnlMlltU.
BRITISH AND FRENCHlMARlNA SURVIVOR
MAKE BIG ADVANCES
Foch's Troops Drive Germans
From Strong Positions on
Ttnpnumc Konri.
SA1LMSKL IS TAKEN
Desperate Hand to Hund Fight
ing Precedes Fall of
tlie Village.
Ijs'Po.s, Nov. (I. The Snmme and
Verdun were the scenes to-day of vic
tories for the Allies more notable than
any In a fortnight. In fighting that
I lasted all last night and most of to-day
the French on both fronts had great
success and the llrltlsh on the Soinme
nlso progressed.
(len. Koch's main blows, struck In
succession all day, were In the region
of I.o Tianslny, southeast of Ilapaume.
The capture of this strongly held nnd
well fortified village did not result, but
Its fall Is greatly hastened,
French Infantry dashed forward
against (lermnn positions along a four
mile front from l.es Hrufs east to Sallly,
then south along the western edge of
St. Pierre Vnast wood.
Push Toniird t.e Transloj.
Between Lea B'rufs and Sallly-Sallll-sel
the French lines were pushed for
ward from the south several hundred
yards Inward Ia Transloy despite strong
teslstance fioin the (ieriunit garrison.
Ent of Sallly the French stormed and
held the southern end of the old rjerman
fourth lire trench that defends l.e
Transloy, running from enst of Sallly
northwest In front of l.e Transloy
Almost all of the village of Sallll.el,
adjoining Sallly on the t-nutheast, was
tnken after more of the desperate hand
to hand lighting that took Sallly te
cently Then the French attack swung around
the St. Pierre Vnat wood, nearly a
square mllo In area and straight south
of Sallllsel. This wood, roughly a tri
angle, Is a very strong barrier to French
progress. Tho French attacked on three
sides, and penetrated strong trench sys
tems the Germans had dug on the edges
of the wood, which also constituted parts
of the old German fourth line,
j At the same time that the French
were conducting so successful an often
j sle on the Somme front they were fin
j Ishlng successfully the work they began
at Venlun on October 21. To-day they
added alt of Vnux village and all of the
' village of Damloup to the long list of
, strong, dearly liought positions, forts,
villages, bills, that they hive tetaken
from the Crown Prince In three weeks
i at n cost to them ridiculously small.
By to-day's operations the word Finis
I Is written on the Crown Prince's great
offensive. Vnux village and Damloup
fell easily, in a result of the strategy of
the first attack of October II The
Germans In them were In the same posi
tion as tlie Germans In Fort Vaux, un
der Piencli lire from three sides, pock
eted by the advance of October 2t. The
vIUircs could not be held.
The Ililtlsh attacks on the Somme re
suited III progress on a half mile front
and the occupation of the high ground
near the Butte de W.irlencourt.
, llnllr nn Important Position.
i Butte de Warlcncourt Is the luimedl
' ate objective of the British south of the
Aucre and one of the main bastions of
Ilapaume. Once this position Is taken
British progress will be far moie rapid
and easy
niielms has been bombarded again hy
the Germans, The Crown Prince ordered
It, the German statement says, because
the Fieni'h have been bombarding
French villages behind the Champagne
front that had not been abandoned by
the civilian population.
The French statement to-night tells
of the day's success as follows:
North of the Somme we made sev
eral successful attacks during the
course of the day, accomplishing a
series of appreciable advances between
the region south of I Transloy and
the district south of the St, Plerro
Vnast w d,
Between l.es Bo-ufs and Sallly-Sall-llsel
we pusheo our lines several bun
dled meters In the direction of l.e
Transloy. East of Sallly-Hvilllisel we
captured a trench and coiuiuered the
greater part of the village of Sallllscl.
South of Ibis vilhlce we ntt.ipkpil frnm
! three sides at once the St Pierre Vaast
wood, which Is powerfully organized
by the enemy, and made an Imiwrtant
advance, capturing successively three
trenches which defended tho northern
horn of the wood and also taking the
whole line of the enemy's positions on
the southwestern outskirts.
Mnynnet la I'aed,
The fighting was particularly bitter
on that section of the front. German
counter attacks were brilliantly re
pulsed with the hand grenade nnd
bayonet.
In the course of these actions we
captured o22 prisoners, of whoin fif
teen were officers.
On the right bank of the Meusc the
artillery battle In the region of Douau
mont continues. Wo occupy the entire
village of Vaux.
The afternoon statement said:
North of the Somme the enemy did
not resume bin attempt on our
trenches In St. Plerre.Vaast wood.
East of Fort Vaux our troops, ex
tending their progress, occupied dur
ing the night the village of Damloup,
leaking some prisoners.
The llrltlsh statement to-night aays:
Wo attacked at several points along
the front, making some progresa and
taking a few prisoners. On our ex
treme right we cleared a pocket of
Germans.
In the centre we progressed on a
front of over a thousand yards, secur
ing the high ground In the neighbor
hood of the Butte do Wnrlencourt,
The nerlln fleport.
The German announcement follows:
Army Group of Crown Prince Itup.
precht Artillery activity extended to
the front north of tho Ancrn and
t cached tho region north of the Somme,
where It assumed groat violence.
Hostile patrol attacks close to the
east bank of the Ancre und north of
Couri'elette and near Gueudecnurt and
northwest of Sallly-Sallllsel were re
pulsed. Army Group of the German Crown
Prince Towiib which hud not been
evacuated by the population behind
our Champagne front had been fro
iirntly shelled In the last artillery
bombardment from Ilhelma. We an
awered thla yesterday with a Or
against nhclma.
PLEADS TO WILSON
"Avenge Our Dead,"' Writes
Former Member of V. S.
Navy, Tlescucd Horseman.
NO WAHXIKO WAS GIVEN"
".Murder of Xcntrnls as (.'old
lilondcd and Deliberate as
the Liisiduiin."
Sptcliil Cahle rinrxitcfi In Tiis Sl'V trout the
London Time
Losnov, Nov. f. "Wilson, Avenge
Our Dead!" Is the heading In the
Weekly 7)l;iirWi over an article written
I by Samuel Devlin, formerly of the Cnlted
Ulnl.a .n... nt,.l nl.a nf .1,n .1 1 . ! r nf
the torpedoed Marina, on which six
Americans were killed. In die article
Devlin addresses President Wilson as
follows:
. "I am an American citizen who with
the others have Just landed at a place
I safe from submarines. I have Jut had
j a narrow escape from death by murder
on the high seas. I have seen six of my
ipattners, also Americans, go to their
deaths without warning, without n
, chance to save themselves, through the
deliberate act of a foreign Power that
has wilfully broken Its solemn promise
made to you not to sink merchant ships
without warning them and Insuring- Un
safely of the lives of the people nboard. I
"We want to know what you are I
going to do. You keep telling us ou
will not have American lives Imperilled
and will not surfer American honor to '
i be outraged. Well, there are six Amer- i
leans dead. They went down In the met
chant ship Marina. There nre two other i
Americans lying In the hospital, unable ,
to move, because of their surferlngs In
an open boat In a stormy sea. '
I Suit Huhmsrlnr'a I'erlseiipe.
"We left for America last Thursday
a week. It was so tough all one day
taat we could make only twenty miles.
On Saturday It was as bad as ever.
1 Huge seas swept the deck'. At half-past
S In the afternoon we were doA'ii In our
bunks talking. Suddenly we felt an ex
plosion, the sensation of a bursting,
; boiler. We learned afterward that It ,
' was the boiler, exploded by the torpedo.
' We slipped on lifebelts nnd. running nn
, deck, heard that we had been attacked
' by a submarine.
"The Marina was sttuck ainldsiilps,
, There was not the least excitement nnd !
little hurry, From a boat 1 noticed the
periscope of tho submarine. We were
then thirty feet from the ship. The
Jierlscupe moved slowly around to the,
I port side, where ti second torpedo was
tired Into her. The Marina Immedlately
broke In halves, the bow and stern ris
ing toward the centre, remaining In a i
curious position. One of my partners
took out tils watch to see how- long the
i-econil torpedo would take to finish bet
"The captain and the men Hill in the
bblp. Including the Mx Americans, ran
aft. The secon-J explosion was m un
expected that It took them completely
by surprise. They bad time only to
thtow a life taft. Inn they could not
reach the raft The eh',-1 sank and the ,
captain and (be others, including the elx 1
I Americans, were pulled under,
I Deserted h- Snhmurlnc.
"We never saw the captain, the first
mate or the second mate or any of tlie!
others, including the six Americano, who
were in the ship again after she bad i
, been struck aftnln without warning, Mr.
' President, Just to show, I suppose, how .
easy It Is to defy the United State of
America. !
"It was daik and verv cold and wet. I
.Some of us were ncarcely decently cov-,
I erml. Did the submarine stop nnd see If i
we were s.ire?
"She left us In r.nen boats on a stormy
, sea. In our boat we were packed so
j t!-ht that we dared not move all night
We kept wltlilu a mile of the place where
the ship went down In the hope of com
ing upon some men alive In the water,
but It waa no use.
"For twenty-seven and a half hours
we were tomed about, frozen to the
bone, In Imminent danger of our boats
capsizing. Our only shelter was sail
cloth. We shipped a good deal of water.
Early Sunday morning wo sighted a
boat, We were unable to attract Its
nttentlon, but finally as we were begin
ning to despair wv were picked up by
an English patrol boat.
s Deliberate as l.uallaiila,"
"That, Mr. President, Is our story,
You see that when somo of us bad tho
good luck to manage to get away tho
submarine- made sure of killing tho rest.
If that wasn't a murder of citizens of a
neutral nation as cold hlooded nnd de
liberate ns tho I.usltanla murders, then
we give up.
"Wo are only horsemen, but we nre
Americans, and we are entitled to the
same protection an nnvbody In the
I'ulted Stntes. Thero are my partners,
Albert Twentz of Sheridan. Wyo. :
l.uther .1. Clark of Illchmond, Va and
others. They hnve lost nil their belong
ings. There's myself. Samuel Devlin, of
Providence, It, I who has served eight
years In the United States navy, battle
ship, submarine, torpedo boat destroyer
all kinds of service. Down with the
Marina went my United States navy good
conduct medal and my discharge papets.
"Wo Americans expect to go to sea
again In a few days, to try to get homo.
What we want to know Is. are you go
lug to secure a guarantee for our safetv
on this occasion, or have ws got to sail
knowing that at any moment we may be
sent to the bottom without warning"
MARINA CASE WAITS.
Decision I Suspended I'ntll ticr
nan Version Is lleeelvrd.
Wabiiinoto.v. Nov, S. With cable ad
vices from London Indicating that Ger
many violated Its pledges to the Cnlted
States In attacking the Drill. h steam
ship Mnrlna without warning, causing
Ilia loss of the lives of six Amei leans
the State Deparlment is still determined
to suspend Uh decision until (lennany
bus been heard from. Tho consensus of
opinion In well Informed circles Is that
It will not be made n diplomatic Issun
between tho United States and Ocr
ninny. This opinion Is based on tho so.
called extenuating circumstances which
the German Foreign Ollhe Indicates It
may plead by way of Justification,
The main points of tho German de.
fence admitting that the Marina was
torpedoed are that the Marina wns
understood to belong to tho British Ad
mlrulty service, that she was armed
with a 4,7 Inch gun, that she tried tn
escap and that ample tlm waa given
th crewi before She sjaak.
CATHOLICS SPURN
DEMOCRATIC BRIBE
Secret Eleventh Hour Expe
dient Revealed by the Hcv.
John J. Wynne.
CALL CIRCULARS INSULT
Names of 110 Minor Appoin
tees of President Listed as
"Unit" for Votes.
How a secret eleventh hour expedient
of the Democratic managers to Influence
the votes of Catholics took form and
then collapsed from the resentment of
the Catholics themselves wns told last
night by the Itcv. John J. Wynne of St.
Francis Xnvier Acndemy, editor of the
Catholic Knriicloimrtltn, director of the
Apostleshlp of Prayer, the largest Catho
lic organization In the world, and former
editor of .Imrrtrn, tho official organ of
tho Jesuits In this country.
it developed from his story that while
President Wilson was rebuking Jeremiah
O'l.cary the President's political lieu
tenants were completing well laid plnns
for a play to other Irish Catholics
throughout the ('tilled States through a
series of circulate. Within a few days
the circulars began going out by thou
sands, appealing for votes for Wilson
and listing nbout 1 1 Catholic appoint
ments, mostly minor ones, that Wilson
had made while In olllce.
Considered ns Insult.
Father Wynne asserted last night that
the Catholics regal ded this ns a palpa
b.e attempt to brltie them with the nr
Burnetii : Give me jour vote and I will
give you olllces. He said members- of his
faith all mer the country were Intensely
Indignant nt what they considered nn
insult to their Integrity nnd Intelligence.
Catholics generally, he said, deplored
the Injection of religion Into politics
end the appeal to racial feelings. He
slid the etlort for this reason wns fore
doomed to failure, us It would do noth
ing but arouse the Indignation of those
who were approached on these grounds.
The series of circulars which Catho
lics have been receiving are three In
number and are over the signature of
Francis J, Hogati. "t Broadway, sec
retary of the "Catholics Fair Play Com
mittee," which lias been active polltl- ,
cally before. An thing which would In-i
dii.itH that the Fair Play Committee '
has any connection with the National
Democratlo Committee Is carefully
omitted, but Catholics who have made
nn Investigation of the source of the
circulars said last night that they had
established beyond the possibility of a
denial that the circulars not only were
sanctioned by the Democratic commit
tee, but that they were published with
money rnntr'huted to the campaign fund
to elect Wilson.
Circulars Described.
Father Wynne described the circulars
as follows-
'The first circular was a mall eight
page pamphlet enumerating the number
of offices that bad been distributed
among Catholics during the Wilson Ad
ministration. Somo were holdovers
and others wero new appointments. Few
were of prominence. There were nbout
llo In the list
"One ni'ght get this circular by going
to the olllce of Mr. Hogati at 271 Hroad
waj. To tet the other two there was
a deal of mysterious formality to go
through. The whole proceeding hnd the
appearance of bring surreptitious and
underground. One had to be vouched
for as a good Catholic and as a petson
who could be trusted. Then one was
authorized to receive the other two cir
cular", not at "71 Broadway, tint nt the
Giegnrlau Hotel, ii Wet Thirty-fifth
street,
"Circular No. 2 was a large folder,
octavo she, lepeating the llt of oftlces
to which Catholics had been appointed
by President Wilson, and denying that
the Piesldent ever had, ns reported, nil
dressed Cardinal Gibbons as 'Mr. Gib
bons.' The circular, admitting that
Wilson's policy In Mexico for the con
servation of t'lthnllc Interests had nut
succieded, urged that he 'be fchen nn
other chance'
Objects In llnolnlloii,
"The third rlrculir was nn eight page
folder which again listed (be Catholic
appointments of the President and
quoted n Ions, rambling letter written
by Cnlted Stales Consul Monaghan, sta
tioned at Jamaica. In the letter Prof.
Momtrili.ni presumed to quote Homethlng
of n favorable nature I had snld con
cerning President Wilson, As a matter
of fact, what I mid of Mr, Wilson had
no reference to politics or to the conduct
of bis ofllce, nnd tho use of the quotation
In tills way by the Democrats Is what
led me tn make clear to Catholics of the
country that It was unauthorized and
most misleading."
Cnndo B. Pallen. president of tho
Catholic Film Asoi'l.itlon, said In n
statement he matin on the appeal to the
Catholics:
"This Is plainly n halt nnd a bribe to
Catholics, It Insults Catholics by as
suming that they nre so far forgetful
of their fundamental duties as citizens
r.x to sell their votes, It moreover shows
the earmarks of the old fallacy, the
suppression of the truth by presenting a
moiety of the facts for, out of the
thousands ami thousands of Federal of
flclnls, only :i sniall fraction of 1 per
cent, are Cnthollcs, and tbeso only In
comparatively minor offices.
"1 point this out to i how the fall icy
of the argument If It had any appeal to
Catholics at all. My proper point Is that
the plea Is un-American ns well m insult
to the Integrity of tne Catholics. It has
no placo In n purely political campaign
at all. As a Catholic I repudiate the
vicious Insinuation and I know that my
fellow citizens condemn such tactics as
emphatically ns I do "
RETURNS AT CARNEGIE HALL.
Men nnd Women .Members of Prom
inent Chilis Itent Place.
Men and women members of several
promliKtit clubs and societies have pro-curi-1
tho use nf Carnegie Hall for to
morrow night and with their famlllm
will receive election returns there, Many
special wires will be Installed and as
the vote Is received It will b analyzed
nnd classified and comparisons made, with
former elections. The viewa of lenders
ut the various jxuty headquarters will
be reported during the evening.
Among the women who aic to attend
ate many who huvo made tqieeeheH dur
ing tho campaign, Prominent suffrage
workeia will also bo present, filing tn
their annual ball later. Motion pictures
of the Presidential candidates will be an
additional feature.
6 SLAIN, 40 SHOT,IN I. W. W.
FIGHT A T EVERETT, WASH.
INVADERS DRIVEN
Sheriffs Posse Forbid Seattle Steamer Party of 250 to
Land During Strike Governor Orders
Troops Held Under Arms
Rioters in Jail.
Evkrctt, Wash,, Nov. C. At least ilx
men wero killed and forty others
wounded to-day In a fight at the Everett
city wharf between 250 member of the
Industrial Workets of the World, who
came here from Seattle on tho steamer
Verona to Insist on the right of free
speech In aid of a strlko of shingle
workers, nnd n posse of 150 citizens
bended by Sheriff Don Mcltac. The
Sheriff Is among the seriously wounded.
After the shooting. In which about
1,000 shots were exchanged, the Verona
turned around and started back to
Seattle. Many men were seen to fnll on
the leck of the steamer, nnd others,
panic stricken, Jumped overboard.
Tho dead arc C, O. Curtis, formerly
a Lieutenant In the National Guard, one
of the Sheriff's posse, ntnl flvo laborers,
members of the I. W. W., on the
Verona. Two others may die.
The Verom reached Everett shortly
before 2 o'clock. The coming of the
party of invaders had been announced
In messages sent to Eveiett from Seattle
headquarters. A call to Industrial
Workers of the World members from all
over the State had been Issued earlier
In the week and the cltlrens of Everett
nt a meeting held Saturday night
planned to meet the Invaders and deny
them ptlvllegc of landing.
Men on Ship Itealn Sboollim.
When the Verona reached the city
wharf Sheriff McBae. who was hacked
by h posse of deputy sheriffs and citi
zens, stepped fnrw d nnd Informed tho
men on the boat that they would not be
permitted to land. One of the men, evi
dently spokesman for the party, began
nrgulng with the Sheriff mid then mado
a speech. Appirently n n signal, tho
man dropped his hnnd nnd armed men
on the steamer opened fire on tho posse
assembled on the wharf
The first man tn fall was Sheriff Mc
Dae, serlouslv Injured. One tnnn was
killed Instantly nnd In n moment the
crowd on ehore was panlrstrlcken. Dep.
uty sheriffs on the wharf quickly rallied
their forces, however, and returned the
fire.
Men on the whnrf nnd on the boat 1
were seen to fall nnd the Verona Imme
diately backed nut of the dock and
started back toward Seattle.
The trouble between the Industrl.it
Workers of the World nnd the authori
ties nt Everett has been on for several
months nnd wns the outgrowth of n
strike of shingle weavers lure. After
several minor outbreaks of violence dur
ing the strike Sheriff Mcltne orsnnlztd
the citizens' committee nnd expelled nil
membem of the Industrial Workers of
the World from Everett.
I. W.W. Called for 2,000 Volnnteers
On several occasions small parties of
men hvvo attempted to enter Everett,
but hnve been turned back by the Sher
iff. Last Monday flvo members of the
Industrial Workers of the World came
from Seattle by steamer, but were met
at the wharf by the citizens' posse,
loaded Into automobiles nnd escorted
to n point south of the town, where they
were liberated and ordered to leave.
Last week the mluaf i hit Workers, the
official organ of the J. W. W. In Se
attle, announced that tho forcible ex
pulsion of men from Everett must be
avenged and called for 2,000 volun
teers to go to Everett to establish "the
right of free speech."
"The fight must be won," said tho
paper, "as the whole future of the In
dustrial Workers of the World In this
section depends upon the outcome. We
want nil foot loose rebels In the West
to centre their nttentlon upon Everett
and the trust mill and logging proper
A. H. MURPHY HELD UP
IN HOME, $2,100 STOLEN
ISronv Tammany Leader Vic
tim of Hold liolilicrs in
Own Vestibule.
Arthur H. Murphy, nn executive mem
ber of the Democratic county committee
for Bronx county and one of Tammany's
most powerful lenders, was robbed !n the
vestibule of Ills own home, lSOn Arthur
avenue. The Bronx, early Sunday morn
ing. Although the robbery occurred more
than twenty-four hours ago, tho polU'e
atid Mr. Murphy preserved strict silence,
about the Incident until the news leaked
accidentally this morning.
Mr. Murphy veiit to the theatre Sat
urday night and afterward slopped In
tlie Democratic headquarters at Tro
mont nnd Arthur n venue, where he re
mnlned until nbout 1 .30 o'clock. He
walked to Ills home, a few blocks nwny,
nnd let himself Into the vestibule with
his latchkey.
As he stepped Inside two masked men,
who had secreted themselves In the en
trance, held him up at the point of re
volvers and took from him his watch,
his diamond stickpin, bis ting and $2,100
In money.
Then threatening him with death If
he sounded an alarm, they made their
escape, The police hnve no clue to
work on, except Mr. Muiphj's vague
description that the men were short,
wore caps and masks. They did not
dlsiuib his family when they gained
entrance to the vestibule. The Murphy
homo Is a frame structure, stundlnts
some distance back from tho avenue,
GERMANS LOSE A SUBMARINE.
Sitrn nils on Danish Const nnd Creir
Blows It Up.
London', Nov, 5. A despatch from
Copenhagen says a German submarine
stranded Saturday night off Harbooere,
on the. west coast of Denmark.
After vain attempts by Herman tor.
pedo boat destroyers to refloat It and
the refusal of assistance from the local
lifeboat station the crew blew up the sub.
marine and took refuge on board the
destroyers.
OFF
ties. Get on the Job and use your Judg
ment." .ship llrliiKs I Oendt til) Injured.
SCATTt.t:, Wash., Nov. 5. The steamer
Verona, which carried tho Industrial
Workers of the World expedition to
Everett, returned here early to-night
with llvu dead and twenty Injured on
board.
When the Verona pulled Into her slip
the wharf was surrounded by policemen
and thirty National Guardsmen under
command of Capt. Paul Edwards. Cap
tain of Police D. F. Wlllard shouted to
Capt. Wlman of the Verona not to land.
Several members of tho Industrial
Workers nboard the boat started to
clamber over the steamer's rail, but po
licemen halted them at the point of
revolvers.
One gangplank was lowered, nnd under
supervision of the pollen tho wounded
were taken off the boat, first assisted by
their uninjured comrades, and weie re
moved to tho city hospital. Tho four
dead were taken to the morgue. The
dead were found laid out on tho floor
of tho cnbln nnd the wounded were
stretched out on sea's along the wnll
or lying on the floor.
As the men marched dov n the gnfig
plank under cover of the police shot
guns and pistols they were searched for
firearms, but no weapons were found.
Several pistols were found hidden In the
cnbln of the boat when It was searched
after the men bad been taken orf. All
of the uninjured men were loaded Into
automobile 8 under heavy police guard
and taken to the city Jail, where they
were locked up.
Second Hunt Was on Way.
Tho Verona left Seattle about noon
with 250 armed men nboard. One hun
dred and fifty other members of the In
dustrial Workers of the World who
could not find room on the Verona
lontdcd the steamer Callsta, which left
after the first boat had departed, Both
vessels were i bartered for an "excur
sion." The light was over and the
Verona was on her vay buck long be
fore the Call.t.i npptonclied Everett.
The two steamers met at Mukllteo, four
miles south of Eveiett, and came back
to Seattle together.
Wnrnlrw that there wouM be trouble
In Everett to-day was IsFiied at the
Seattle headquarters of the Industrial
Workers of the World last night after a
meeting of members. A call for mem
bers to Join tho expedition to Everett
was Issued and speaker declared that
they would tolerate no Interference from
the Everett authorities.
Clrenlnr Appeal to rillrena,
A elievilar Psued for distribution In
Everett read :
Citizkns or EvrnrrrT; Attention!
There will be a meeting nf the Indus
trial Wmkers of the World November
5 at Ilewett and Wetmore nvenues.
Come and help maintain your own and
our national privileges.
Committee.
"If the police. Sheriff and citizens will
not milntaln order In Everett they bad
better call out the tnllltla," said one
speaker at last night's meeting. In any
event wo will so there nnd put Everett
In order."
Governor Ernt Lister, who is In
Seattle, has ordered Adjutant-General
Maurlie Thompson of the Wnhlnctnu
National Guard to go to Everett and re
port to ldui on conditions three.
Before leaving for Everett, thirty
tulles notth of here, Adjutant-Geier.il
Thompson ordertd all National Guard
organisations in Seattle to report Im
mediately for duty. Four companies of
Coast Artllleiy, four conipinles of In
fantry and two dlv.slotts of the Naval
Mllltla were ordered under arms. Pend
ing, further development", the guards
men were Oldereil to assist the police In
rounding up members of the Industrial
Workers of the World here,
"VOTE OF WOMAN
TO ELECT HUGHES"
Knfi'iiiicliiseil in Eleven States
Send Word Tliey Will
CliniiKe President's.
Ciitcunn. Nov fi "Wo can't chance
the President so we re going to change i
Presidents.'' was the keynoto of the I
final meeting held to-night in the
National Woman's party campaign
agilnst President Wilson. Eleven meet
lugs wero held In the capitals of tho
equal suffrage Staffs.
From each of tho eleven State capitals
a unman sent word by long distance
telephone tn the Chicago meeting that
the "fiee women of the West'1 were go
log to vole ag ilnst Wilson because of
his opposition to national woman's suf
frage. They promised to "support no
candidate or party who docs not rccog
nlre the rlsht of all women"
Mrs. Harriot Stanton Hl.it.li. a Hfe.
long Democrat trom the days of the
Iliiyes-Tlldci! controversy, addressed the
women nt the lllackstoiie Theatre. She
attacked Prsldeut Wilson for his atti
tude on siiiTnifc and ridiculed the cry
of "he kepi ns out of war"
"With realization that the political en
ftiinchlsemetit of women is a pressing
world Issue" Mrs, llbitch said, "we nsk
ourselves the practical question Who
Is the chief enemy In our path" The
Democratic pitty Is that enemy.
"Soon after ps ascendancy to mwer the
Deiuncintle party was called upon to live
up to Its principle that all Just govern
ments derive their power from the con
sent of the governed bv passing on to the
Stales fur r.itlllcatlon woman suffrage
nmendment to the Cnlted States Consti
tution. "By every possible means the justice of
the cause was tuircd upon the dominant
party Hut Die Democratic party could
not face the now spirit. In the ques.
Hons asked, In the speeches made, we
found Democratic Congressmen weie, as
far ns women aie concerned, living In
tlio eta of smelling salts and crinolines.
As thev are incapable of moving for
ward we want to move them out "
Dewey's Superior I'ert Wine, H n lliittlf,
Our mint nourishing lilonil.niiiklng wine,
1J Fulton Ht N. r. Phone 3001 Corl
Aiv,
HUGHES SURE OF
VICTORY SCORNS
WILSON SHAFTS
G. 0. P. Leader Disdains to
l.cply to tlie President's
Aspersions.
"INVISIBLE ItULF'
CHARGE AMUSES HIM
He Beliovps New York City
Vote "Will Surprise
Democrats.
TAMMANY'S KNIFE
01'T FOB SEABURY
'Whitman and Calder Aro
Confident of Triumph
To-morrow.
Twenty-four hours heforo election
day, with tho campaign over to all
Intents) and purposes and with nothlnK
left hut to nvvalt tho verdict of tho
voters, tho candidates rested yesterday
after their wearying efforts, each ex
pressing himself as confident nf vlc
tory.
Charles B. Hughes remained quietly
at the Hotel Astor. Ho Ih supremely
confident that by to-morrow night he
will know hn is the President-elect.
President Wilson ut Shadow l.nvvn
received no callers, lteports from
Democratic lenders throughout the
country mnde him feci ure of victory.
Vance McCormlck, Democratic na
tlonnl chairman, Issued a statement
faying Mr, Wilson was certain to ho
tlected nnd went Into considerable do
tall to prove tho accuracy of tho Dem
ocratic canvass.
William II. Wlllcox. tho Hcpubllcnn
national chairman, said simply that
Mr, McCormick'M published claims
wero too absurd to requlro nn answer.
Gov. Whitman feeln absolutely cer
tain of nieces..
Judge Soalniry professr to see vic
tory nhenil for himself, but word Is
j said to have gor.o out quietly from
Tammany for the organization work
ets to knife him at th" polls, lie Is
' also marked for sbini-bter hv the rei?u.
lars In Brooklyn, It is reported.
William M. Calder nNo is confident
nf victory, although William K. Mc-
Cnmls. may run ahead of Seulmry.
Calder has been a prohibitive favorlto
, In tho betting.
HUGHES WON'T REPLY.
He t.nnclis ill the Shnfts Thrown by
Wilson.
If Charles E. Hughes Is defeated to-
1 morrow be will be the nio-t astonished
man In the Cnlted Slate". No aspirant
for tho Pre.-ddein y wns ever morn quietly
confident of-victory. So far as Mr.
j Hughes is concerned nothing remains ex
cept to tabulate his pluralltis.
For carefully thought out reasons ho
I declined t" make a statement last night
In reply to President Wilson's tinal ef
fort, an Interview which pieillcteii tlm
triumph of Invisible government If Mr.
Hughes wins and asserting that the hap
plness of tho American people depends
upon tho reelei-tioit of him, Woodrow
Wilson. Mr. Hughe read this statement down
to Its last word, read it with ua .unui-e-
, merit, not Irritation. Then, when the
reporters called on him at Ihu Hotel
Astor last night to a' for nonio sort of
rejoludir to Mr. Wilson, bo merely
laughed, saying that ho ginssi d lliu peo
ple could sizo up tho President's stale
ment for themselves. He declined to
be quoted for any kind nf comment,
Itensona for III Decision.
I'lil-lifi-lv In :l fete frl.in,lu l 11.
- " ' iiuhiii's
communicated l is reasons for ending tlm
campaign Saturday night ntnl for Ignor
ing tho President's assumptions, asser
tions ami Insinuations. Ho is so euro
of vlctorv that he feels that It would bn
an nntl-cllmax to a. vigorous camp.ikn
for him tn take Mr. Wilsons statement,
pick It to pieces and dlsolnso all of Ita
sophistry and egotism.
lie takes tho stand that tho people
lvo made up their minds and that any
further rejoinders to the President
would be lost effort, Indicating lack of
loulldence rather than assuranco of sue
.ess. Ho feels that ho has conducted n
dignified and courteous campaign and
that tho voters run rn well aware of Jujt
where ho stands that no further dell
tiltlons or promises need be made
One p-m of the President's statement
particularly amused Mr. Hughes tint
part which vntually charged him with
being the representative of Invisible gov
ernment, of special Interests. It Is known
Hint he told several fi lends that of all
tho Issues and arguments of the cam
paign that Is the one above all about
which the people eannnt be In doubt:
that everybody knows his utter freedom
from boss control or corporation in
lluence; that tho whole country la nvvato
that he came into public life ok an
enemy of special piivilego and boss rule.
iln suiiiH It up laconically with the
phrase, "I haven't changed a bit."
( loss lllltrrness.
It Is known, too, that he found In tlm
President's statement n disposition (
stir up class bitterness, a smoothly
worded assertion that Mr. Wilson was to
lo regarded as tho only true friend of
the plain people, und that Mr. Hughes
must lio looked upon ns the sinister
champion of tho people's enemies, Mr.
Hughe believes tills sort nf thing Is un
vnrthy "f a Piesldent of the Cnlted
Stales, of any man with Mr. Wilson's
imrllccttialltv
While the lepmieiH chatted with him
last nlglit In his apartment nt tho Hotel
Astor Mr. Hughes stood, hands thrust In
trousers pocket, rocking back and forth,
heel to toe, the very plctnro of confl.
