Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
IS PAdES
4W PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MOKNINO, NOVEM1JKH (J, 101G
Ifata.
18 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 171
COUNTRY-WIDE PROPHESIES
OF RESULT OF ELECTIONS
DIVERGE IN EVERY STATE
Confidence of Both Parties
In the Outcome In New York
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YRK. Nov. 5. Hoth demo
.its mnl republicans profess entire
i oiif iti-:i f in the outcome of the vnt-'
inii Tuesday. Final orders have Rone
out from t tie headquarters here of the
national committees to the chiefs in
i- ttier slates by whom instructions will
i transmit teil tomorrow to sub-chiefs
ai:d lieutenants all the way down to
the precinct captains. j
Charles )-.. Hughes, the republican
presidential candidate, who will remain
1 ere until after election, announced to
il. glit that he considers his campaign
o,-ed. and that he has no further
statement to make. He told the few
allers he had. however, that he felt
Mire of ictory.
Mr. Hughes slept until 10:30 o'clock
this morning and did not leave his
I'otel until after dinner tonight, when
he went for a walk.
The republican nominee wiil vote
Tuesday morning from the hotel here,
uhn-h is his legal residence. The loll
ing place will he an F.ighth avenue
l.tunorv .
Neither Vance ( McCormick, the
cemocnitic national chairman, nor Wil
1 im K Willcox, the republican chair
man, had statements to make today.
Ilach spent part of the day at head
i, carters making plans for tomorrow.
1 'resident Wilson's final message to
state and county chairmen wired from
Long Kranch. was made puhllc at dem-
tr.itic headtpiarters without comment.
1: was said to speak for itself.
Kleventh hour effort of Iwlh parties
w.li le bent lo "swinging" the election
if congressmen in doubtful districts
throughout the country.
i're.tern k C. Taner, chairman of the
New York republican state committee,
predicted that twenly-four congres
sional i-andidale in this state wiil lie
elected l.v the republicans and seven-
ii- n by the democrats. In the two
rni.urnng districts, he said the chances
ln-.r tlte republicans. He repeated his
t-ATl er prophesies of the success of the
rational ticket.
The latest canvasses received by the
republican state committee confirm my
statement of last Monday that Mr.
H.ighes mill carry the state by more
than luo.ooo," Mr. Taner said, "and
ih.it Governor Whitman, William .M.
'alder and the entire republican ticket
w.i! l-e elected hy substantially the
mine pluralities.''
State t'hairman Harris, of the
.lem-KTats. added nothing to the pre
diction that he previously had made
that President Wilson and the state
taket will carry New York by a large
plurality.
1; wan reported that Tammany Hall
estimates indicate l'resident Wilson
wnl carry the city by at least x"i,0'".
The democrats contend this wit! more
tr.an le enough to offset the republican
plurality up state.
Massachusetts
I'oSToN'. Nov. 5 Republican lead
ers, confident that the major portion
'f progressives have returned to the
I arty, tonight forecast that Hughes
would carry Massachusetts by T.'i.O'io.
iJemocratic leaders challenge the
statement by claiming: a majority of
i.oo't to 20.'i00. Senator Henry Cabot
Ijlge. republican, will face a popular
vote for re-election for the first. time
ntnie he liecame a United States sen
ator in 1VJ. He Is opposed by former
M.ior John ritzgerald.
election of Mr. Hughes hy 15,000 ma
jority. New Hampshire. Unchallenged
CONCORD. N". H , Nov. si. The re
publican state committee tonight es
timated 12.OU0 votes as the sine of the
expected Hughes lead over ('resident
Wilson. Democratic committeemen
made no detailed claims.
Democratic Hope in Penna.
PHlLADKU'lllA. Nuv. u.The re
publicans tonight claim the election of
Mr. Hughes by f.o.00 majority while
the democrats claim there is still a
fighting chance to carry the state.
The race in many districts is close.
An overwhelming majority for Philun-
der ('. Knox, the republican candidate
: for I nited States senulor was also
predicted.
Ohio
COLl'MIil'S, Nov. 5. The republi
can state chairman predicted tonight
that Charles K. Hughes, Governor
Frank K Willis and Myron T. Merrick,
candidate for Inited States senator,
will carry Ohio by "from 60.000 to
1 ou.ooo," while the democratic state
chairman claimed President Wilson
would have 100.000 plurality. The re
election of Senator Atlee Pomcrene,
the election of former Governor James
M. Cox and the entire democratic
ticket was also predicted.
- Indiana
INDIANAPOLIS. Nov. a. Although
the political Seaklng campaign was
practically closed last night and both
sides claimed a victory there was no
letup in the pre-election work today.
Because of the fact that the repub
lican and democratic vice-presidential
nominees are from Indiauujiolis, the
prohibition presidential candidate is
from the same city and two I'ntted j
states senators are to oe chosen, un
usual efforts have been made hy all
parlies to get votes.
I-cp'lhlii ans claim Indiana by a large
plurality. The democratic stale chair
man would make no statement.
LI
THE PRINCIPLES
OF CHAS.
E. HUGHES
In his spec; h at lioston last j
Thursday night, Charles K- ,
Hughes declared the following
principles: !
An executive responsible to the
whole nation.
A cabinet chosen from our ab- I
lest man, j
A foreign policy that stands
courteously but firmly and con- .
sistently for American rights. i
A flag that protects the Ameri- I
can citizen in his lawful rights, I
wherever his legitimate business :
may take him.
A preparation for trade coopera
tion which shall protect all groups
. of American workmen.
A government supervision of
business which, while preventing I
abuses, will act on the assumption I
that the average business man is :
honest.
A domestic policy which looks to .
industrial peace and cooperation, ;
Not to industrial war. !
CHAS. E. HUGHES. '
In these few forceful words are ;
Included a guaranty to the Ameri- '
can people of an administration j
under which their rights will be i
protected, the nation will be hon
ored and a permanent prosperity
will be assured.
CANT EVEN MAKE A DENT IN IT.
300,000 Apart in Illinois
CHICAGO. Nov. 5. Kred Lsterling.
chairman of the republican slate cen
tral committee, having claimed Illinois
for Hughes, and likewise for Frank O.
Lowden, gubernatorial candidate, by
K.0,000 votes, and Arthur W. Charles,
chairman of the democratic state cen
tral committee having claimed the state
by precisely the same plurality, for
Wilson and Governor limine, voters of
this state had leisure today to figure
it out for themselves.
Hoth camps claimed Chicago, In their
formal statement, but leaders gen
erally were said to admit privately that
the city might jump either way and do
it with emphasis.
Mr. Sterling estimated the total vote
for the state at l.SoO.000. including
about TOn.OoO women, who are allowed
to vote for president, but not for gov
ernor. Minn Harriet Yittum, manager
of the women's department at repub
lican western headquarters, thought
that 500.000 would cover the feminine
vote In this state.
The official long-range weather fore
cast from Washington of possible rain
November 7, In the region of the Great
Lakes, evoked the usual comment of
"democratic weather." but republicans
received the prophesy with composure.
The President's State
TRENTON. N. J., Nov. 5. The
home state of President Wilson which
has been the scene of manv hard
fought political battles is claimed to
night by both parties. The reoubil
CHI LINES Bg&
n f i. w jji i Fn
Ul I IIU I MUIWI.)
IN ytSCEIT
OF THE GLORY
Cartoon by HANDY in The Duluth Tribune:
Both Claim Connecticut
NKW HAVKN, Conn.. Nov. 5 Re
pullnan and democratic campaign
managers tonight each claimed Con
tiei ticut hv good-sized majorities.
For the democ rats. Chairman David j cans forecast victory by 45.000 and the
K. Fitzgerald estimated that President democrats by 1:5.000. Republicans
Wils..n will carry the state by 10,000 1
majority. The republicans claim the (Continued on Page Two)
H YORK STATE FOB HUGHES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
French troops have again smashed
the Orniaii lines. North of the
Somme between Les Itoeufs and
Siiillv-Salllisei, to the east of the l it
ter place and on the St. Pietre vast
wish! sector, lmiorta:u gains were
made Sunday, according to tiie Krench
eunimun'cation. The attack on the
St. Pierre vuast wood netted the
Krcn.'h three trenches on the north
ern side end the entire German posi
tions of the southern outskirts of
the woo I
The Itritish over a front of a
thousand artts. captured the hills in
the neighborhood of the I'utie dc
W ari- nc oui't.
In the Verdun region, the Prench
have taken Vaox entirely and also
tne town of Ihtmloup. east of port
Vaux.
Violent fighting marks the opera
tions in the region south of Gortzia,
where the Ita'ians are endeavoring to
advance on Tti"st Krench gains
linvp nei n made by King Victor Km
minuiel's mn on the Carso plateau.
Italians i're alternately iKimbardmg
Austrian position. at Jamiano and
throw ing heavy infant y effectives
against the town. Vienna nays all
attacks hme failed.
lr the Transylvania Alps, the Au-tro-Gernmns
and Rumanians are still
at deadly grips, with hoth sides claim
ing successes t various points. Rer
un records the rupture by the Ten
tonic alll-s of positions In the pra
ho'H vulle;'. while Hucharet asserts
that the pursuit of the Teutons In
th Jiol vallev continues.
In Macedonia fighting continues
along the ( errs rler hut no import
ant changes h'tve taken place.
Small gains for the Germans on the
It'is'iiin front south or Dvinsk ml
in Gillrla and in the Carpathians for
the Hessians, are recorded in the
Kerlin and Petrograd official communication.
Then" is ft ill no news from
Dobritdju legion of Rumania.
President Feels Confident
But He Advises Precaution
OPOi EVERETT
HIS WlftJORITY AT LEAST 1 Dfl.ODD
i i
(Special to The Republican) I
NKW YORK, Nov. . New York I
state will be back of Charles K. Hughes
on November 7 with at least 100,000
majority. Laboring men and all other
groups of wage earners are standing
l.v turn staunchly. Ninety per cent f
the progressive vote of 1D12 and from
ten to twelve per cent of the vote cast
four year ago for Wilson Is assured
him. Such is the prediction of Philip
.1 MrCook. president of the New York
Hashes Alliance.
The fact that there are erlrolled In
the New York Alliance 175,000 voters of
all iiarties, the greatest group ever
brought together in u non-partisan
movement. Justifies Mr. McCook In
epeaking with authority on the result
in tills state. Mr. McCook says:
"Ninety per cent of the progresaives
o IJIJ will vote for Hughes.
"Petween ten per cent and twelve
l-r cent of those who voted for Wilson
in will vote for Hughes.
"Ttie drift of the Taft vote of 1H12 to
W its4iii ih inconsiderable.
"The itideM-ndeuts are in very large
ininioers tor ungues.
'The labor vote will as usual be
divided and of It Mr. Hughes will re
ceive at least the usual share which
fco-s to a republican candidate.
"New York will give at least 100,000
majority fur Hughes and 1 shall be
rather surprised if It Is not nearer
I ;,n immi,
"The Hughes Alliance In this state
now has over 175.000 members. Krom
a careful analysis of our membership
recently made, the following significant
facts upMur:
"J per cent, or C,r,00 are laborers.
31 per cent, or 54 250 are HerW
salesmen and buyers.
"Our enrollment shows that in New
York state Governor Hughes has the
friendshop and support of an extraor
dinary number of those who are depen
dent ror their living upon their daily
wages.
"Our analysis also shows that far
more than half of our members did not
vote the republican ticket in 1912."
the
Italian Operations
ROM K. Nov 5, (via Ixindon). Ital
ian troops In the last four days have
taken prisoner 270 Austro-Hungarian
officers and 722 men, says the state
ment isued today by the Italian war
department. Since the Italian offen
sive started August 6, on the Julian
front, the Italians have captured
40.!H"i Autro-Hiingarians. Including
l.oos officers.
DEATH OF AN
Republican A. P.
EDUCATOR
Leased Wire
fRepublicin A. P. Leased Wire)
t. bKCTT. W a.h.. No. ... At least
five were killed anil fortv others t
were wounded today In a pitched but-I
tie at the Kverett city wharf betwet-iij
250 m. nit. cts of the industrial Work
ers of the World who came here from
Seattle on the stenmer Verona, and
a ponse of 1'it' citizen, heatb-d by
Sheriff I ton Mi R:ie. Sheriff MiKrie
is among the seriously wounded.
The number of tasuulties aboard
the Verona is not known. Afii-r the
shooting, in which about one thousand
iliots were exi hanged, the Verona
turned around and started buck to
Seattle. Many men were seen to fall
on the deck oi tie steamer and cith
ers, panic stricken, jumped overboard.
Some were taken from the water, hut
thers disappeared and it is behove j
thev were drowned.
The Verona reached Rverett shortly
before 2 o'clock. Tse coming of the
party of Invaders had been announced
'it messttges sent to Kverett from th"
eattl headquarters. A call to lu-
tustrlul Workers of th- World meTii-
rs all over the state had been issued
arller in the week, and the citizens
f Everett, at a meeting held Satur
day night, planned to meet the if.
vaders and denv them the privilege of
anding.
When the Verona reached the city
wharf. Sheriff McRjt". who was
hacked by a posse of deputy sheriffs
and clllziis stepped forward and told
the men on the boat teat they would
not be allowed to land.
Apparently as a signal, a man
Iropped his hand and armed men on
the steamer oM-ned fire on the Posse
assembled on tile wharf.
The first man to fall was Sheriff
McRae seriously injured. One man
was killed Instantly and in a moment
the crowd on shore was panic strick
en. Deputy shentrs rained tretr tore
's, however, uufl returned the fire of
'he Invaders on the Veron.t. Men on
the wharf and on the boat wer? seen
o fall and the Verona immediately
backed out of the dock tind started
ev toward Seattle. (
The trouble letween the I. W. W.
IOWA CITY. Iowa, Nov. S. Pro
fessor A. G. Smith, head of the de
partment or malhema.tics and astron
omy In the I'niverslty of Iowa, died
ei'riy touay. lie was for ir years
tne university representative on the
western intercollegiate conference
hoard.
The Women's Party Concludes
Campaign Against President
r Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
CHICAGO, Nov. S, The National
Woman's Party closed Its campaign
ugalnst President Wilson in the twelve
eiiuul suffrage states with a mass
meeting here tonight. Mrs. Hertram
Slppy presided and the principal ad
dress was delivered hy Mrs. Harriet
Stanton lilalch.
The National Woman's Party held
himultaneous mass meetings in San
Krancisco. Topeka, Ienver, Portland,
Seattle, Hoise, Helena. Reno, Salt Lake
City, Cheyenne and Phoenix.
Mrs. Watch sent a dlffurent long dis
tance telephone message to each state
where women vote.
. I'pon the closing of the campaign
Mrs. Watch said:
"We ure lioldinif President Wilson
responsible for the attitude of the
democratic party toward the enfnin
chlsement of women. As we could not
change the president's mind we de.
cided to change presidents.
"The approaching election will lie
close. Kvery vote is of critical value
to the major parties. We women
voters hold In the hollow of our hand
the making and unmaking of pjcsl
dents.
To me It Is nauseous to hear the
chorim: 'He kept us out of war.' It Is
follv for a nation of 100.000.000 souls to
depend upon the kindly offices of one
man to keep them out of a world cala
cl.vsm. Let the people keep themselves
out or war. Keeping us out of war'
la quite a commonplace achievement
timonR American presidents."
IiNG r.KANCH. Nov. 5. President
Wilson tonight wired his final word of
the campaign to the men who have
worked to bring about his re-election.
The telegram sent to every stat- and
county chairman In the country
follows:
"1 thank you heartily for the wplen
did work done by you and by ajl the
workers in the cause of progressive
principles at issue in this camiuilgn.
"The fight is won. I fi:!!v believe:
though 1 take this means of urging
you to renewed exertions, and vigLiance
to see that belated efforts to cotifuse
the public Judgment, do not succeed.
"Our country is prosperous, secure
and happy, and its prosinrity is Upon
a sound basis. Steps to protect our
commerce and industry in any emer
gency after the Kuropean war einds.
have been taken. The anti-dumping
clause of the so-called war revenue act
provides the executive with ample
power to prevent the 'dumping' of
Kuropean surplus manufactures ur.on
our markets.
"The tariff commission will shortly
be appointed, and at work to provide
the facts which will determine wliat
other legislation is necessary or desir
able. I need not add that the fedef-al
reserve ait is a guarantee agaiivst
panics and that the federal trade cotti-
mission will aid. as it already has
helped, to preserve the stability of our
domestic and foreign commerce.
"I am confident that the time has
passed in America when votes can be
bought, a baliot box defiled by corrupt
practices, or the judgments of the
American people determined or influ
enced in any way by the use of money.
It is, however, our duty to take every
precaution, lest conscienceless agents of
the sinister forces working in opiiosi
tion to progressive principles and pop
ular government, resort, in their des
peration, to industrial coercion or to
the evil and insidious practices of a
decade and more ago."
President Wilson will rest here
awaiting the outcome of the election.
Regardless of the result of the election
he will soon begin to map out a pro
gram for the session of congress next
month. This program includes rail
road legislation and a bill to allow
American exporters to form common
selling agencies abroad.
Messages giving final estimates l
vnrious states were received from dem
ocratic headquarters. As a result.
Secretary Tumulty, speaking for the
president, predicted that Mr. Wilson
would be re-elected overwhelmingly.
The president will vote in lrinceton
Tuesday. He w ill go there by motor.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
TiKRLIN (By wireless to Sayville),
Nov. 5. "The Polish provinces occu
pied by troops of the central powers,"
says the Overseas News Agency, "were
the scene today of a grea,. and momen
tous historic event. Germany and
Austria-Hungary by joint action pro
claimed Warsaw and Lublin the king
dom of Poland and re-established the
right of the Polish nation to control its
own destinies to live an indpendent na
tional life, and to govern itself by
chosen representatives of the nation.
"A few days ago a Polish delegation
had called upon the imperial chan
cellor, lr. von llethmann-Hollweg. Its
members were representative Poles of
all classes, all parties, all ranks of
society and all creeds. They transmit
ted to the German government, the
wishes of the Polish nation which now
believes granted to them.
"Thus the ancient kingdom of Poland
from which in the past came famous
rulers like the von Jagellones (a dy
nasty founded by Jagello which reigned
in Poland from 13SS to 1577) and glor
ious Bouliers like the great Sobieski
(John III., king of Poland in 1B74
lfi!6), ts now resurrected. The Poles
are free from Russian oppression, no
more to be trodden under the heels of
the Cossack. The liberty that had been
destroyed a century ago on Russian
instigation, now is restored. The rule
of the knout has been abolished. Po
land has been given back to western
civilization."
The manifesto issued at Warsaw and
Lublin reads as follows:
"His majesty, the German emperor,
and his majesty, the emperor of Aus
tria, and aisistolic king of Hungary,
inspired hy firm confidence in final
victory of their arms and prompted by
a desire to lead the districts conquered
by their armies under heavy sacrifices
from Russian domination towards a
happy future, have agreed to form of
these districts a national state with a
hereditary monarch and a constitution
al government. The exact frontiers of
the kingdom of Poland shall be out
lined later.
"The new kingdom will receive the
guarantees needed for the free devel
opment of its own forces by its inti
mate relations with both powers. The
glorious traditions of the ancient
Polish armies and the memory of the
brave comrades in the great war of our
days, shall revive In a national army.
The organization, in constitution arid
In command of this army shall be ar
ranged by common agreement.
"The allied monurchs express th
confident hope that "Polish wishes for
the evolution of a Polish state and for
the national development of a Polish
kingdom shall now be fulfilled.' taking
due consideration of the political con
ditions prevailing in Kurope and of the
welfare and the safety of their own
countries and nations.
"The great realm which the western
neighbors of the kingdom of Poland
shall have on their eastern frontier,
shall be a free and happy state enjoying
its own national life, and thev shall
welcome with joy, the birth and pros
perous development of this state."
The semi-official Norddeutsche All
gemeine Zeitung prints a leading arti
cle entitled "Poland's Hour of Fate."
and says: "The Poles now are free
from Russian domination and have an
opportunity to form a national state,
to establish connections with the cen
tral powers, and protected by relations,
to promote their political and econom
ic life and develop their national
civilization."
(Continued on Page Two)
PARRAL ABANDONED BY CAHBANZA
FATE OF BUS IN DOUBT
Deutschland's
Homeward Dash
Set For Friday
Republican A. P. Leaked Wire
NKW LONlio.M, Nov. B. Captain
Paul Koenig of the German submarine
merchantman Deiitschliind which ar
rived here last Wednesday indicated
that he would make his homeward
dash next Friday probably late in the
afternoon.
The gang of negro stevedores worked
all day loading a cargo of crude rubber
and nickel: the Deutschland's crew was
engaged In overhauling the engines and
five mechanics from a local ship yard
practically completed the work of
tightening rivets on the craft's bow
which had become loosened by tossing
In the high seas on the way over. .
Captain Koenig toduy visited the
government submarine base and later
conducted Commander Stirling and his
officers through the Deiitschliind.
Fourteen members of "the German
embassy at Washington came here to
day and greeted the Deutschland's
captain and crew aboard the liner
Wlllehud. '
Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
KL PASo, Tex.. Nov. F.. Parral ha
been abandoned hy the Carranza garri
son under General Luis Hen-era, ac
cording to passengers arriving in.
Juare tonight by train from Chihua
hua City. Nothing could be learned,
however, of the Americans there, thev
said.
The report that Dr. Fisher, an Amer
ican had been killed at Santa Rosalia
by Villa bandits could not be confirmed
officially In Chihuahua, so far as
could be learned from the passengers,
who said the news was brought to
chihuahua by a German who had
tlked to a Mexican. It was eald that
the bandits there killed some Chinese
and "Arabs," as Syrian and other
traders from the near east are known,
by the Mexicans, but even these stories
were pronounced vague and varying.
Dr. Fisher was described as an eld
erly man. In feeble health, married to
a Mexican woman, and owning one of
the finest homes In Santa Rosalia.
one of the Americans said that the
story ho heard regarding Dr. Fisher,
said that the doctor had been slabbed
to death. '
The garrison at Chihuahua City was
estimated at 8,000 men. It was said
that the placing of artillery on a train
there as a movable battery gave rise
to a rumor, which was officially de
nied, that the city was to be aban
doned by the Cnrranza forces.
Military authorities here stated late
today Inat no news had been received
regarding the fate of the Americans
last heard of in the Parral district, but
there was as vet no ground for belciv-
ing that these men had been either
captured or killed by Villa.
It was pointed out that the men hud
horses and were in close communica
tion with th Purral garrison, thus it
was safe lo assume that they would
Join the garrison at the first warning.
Pending the arrival ot more iieiiinie
news hy train from Chihuahua, the
reports at hand indlcateed that Villa
was moving against Purrnl, while Gen
eral Luis Herrera, commander of the
garrison, was under orders to join the I
Carraniea forces concentrating nt
points below Jlminez. Hoth military
and mining men state they have been
so far unable to find a tangible basis
for the rumor.
General Gonzales, in Juarez, today
said that he had ordered the execution
at Madera of the Villa bandits cap
tured at San Geronimo.
Parral Cut Off
CHIIU'AHl'A CITY". Mex., Nov. 5.
General Trevino stated here tonight
that as all telegraphic communication
was cut between Chihuahua and Parral.
as well as to the points south of Chi
huahua. he was unable to learn any
thing in regard to the Americans who
had been in Parral. He said he woul
use every effort at his command, how
ever, to get news of them as soon
communication was improved.
Galicia Autonomous
AMSTKRPAM (via London). Nov. R.
Emperor Francis Joseph has ad
dressed an autograph letter to Premier
Krnest von Koerber. staing that it is
his will when the new state of Poland
comes into existence to grant Galicia
the right indeiendently fo manage its
own internal affairs. The emperor
charges lYemier von Koerber to pre
pare measures for the local realization
of this command.
LONDON. Nov. 3. A disjiatch to
Reuter s Telegram Company from Am
sterdam says advices received in Am
sterdam from Warsaw are to the effect
that the proclamation of independence
for Poland was read at noon Sunday
in German by General von Fiescler. the
German governor general, and later re
peated in Polish by Count Hutten-Czapski.
F.L PASO, Nov. 5. "I shall stick
to Chihuahua to the last cartridge."
was the statement made by General
Trevino to a delegation of foreign
consuls, who called on him yester
la authoritatively stated a pass
enger arriving here tonight. He said
(Continued on Page Nine)
A Significant Event
VIENNA (via London), Nov. fi Of
ficial announcement that the Austro
Hungarian and German emperors have
proclaimed independence for Poland
was made here tonight. The news
spread rapidly throughout the city and
the population hailed it as marking one.
e Greatest events of the war. The
s -p everywhere interpreted as evi
dence that the central powers feel
strong enough from a military stand
point to realize the task thus begun.
The Associated Press correspondent
has learned officially that the govern
ment machinery of the new Poland will
lie evolved gradually from a military
administration and this has been begun
without delay. The new constitution
is to be formed by Poles.
Be the Republican's Guest
and Get Reliable Returns
The Republican with its unexcelled facilities for gathering news, has
made arrangements, to keep the public informed tomorrow night, as to the
results of the elections, both stale and national.
As in the past, The Republican has ulways been the first source for re
liable election returns, nothing has been left undone, to retain the confi
dence of the people.
Hnlletins will be flashed on a screen from The Republican office. These
bulletins will be absolutely reliable and up to the minute. Two special
wires have been installed in the office, in addition to the special Associated
Press leased wire.
The Associated Press wire, running direct into the office, will open
early in the evening, and it Is expected that returns will start to pour in at
once.
In addition to the A. P. wire, the Western Union has installed a wire
to be used to gather In state returns. It will be connected with every
county seat in the state. A special Mountain States long distance telephone
has been placed In the office, to aid in the gathering of outside returns.
