4 Don't Forget Standard Election Returns Tomorrow Niqhf 1 1
HI r II
1 1 Ways Metal Prices 3 & d WivXvi'vX' 4 P- M- CITY EDITION I
I AT,ONS. II llPll 111 II rll SJI LI II MM I II TWENTY PAGES I
HI $10.75; copper, $29.00, $29.25, S28.25 ' 1 aJ WEATHER Utah: Tonight and H
iH ' & T Tuesday Fair; Warmer Tuesday. :
I FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. J : I
j ! Forty-sixth Year-No. 276. Price Five Cent - QGDEN CITY, UTAH, MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 6, 1916. - Entered a. Second!,,, Matter at the Police, Qgdcn, Utah. I
i Germans Deliver Heavy
1 . Attacks Wiffe Telling
i Effect on the British
S Neither the British nor. the French
I "were able to retain in its entirety the
I ground won by them from the Ger-
I j mans on the Somme front during Sat-
gS urday's fighting.
1 Heavy counter attacks were deliv-
2 ered by German troops last night on
'j the new British positions in the neigh-
borhood of Butte do Warlcncourt,
; south of the Albert-Bapaume road and
j London today announces that the
v British wero compelled to give up
;! portions of them.
j Similarly the French lines were at-
,v tacked and Paris states that while
the Germans were held off on the line
between Sailly-Saillisel and St. Pierre-
Vaast wood, they were able to recap-
j :; turesome positions in the wood and
'j in the village of Saillisel, just to the
i north.
3 After a long interval the resumption
i of active operations in Dobrudja is
j reported from Bucharest, which an-
y nounces a Rumanian victory. Ruma-
y nian troops are described to have tak-
en the offensive north of Hirsovo and
' : driven Field Marshal von Mackensen's
i troops from several villages which
! were set on fire as they were evacu-
j I j ated.
i I . Germans Resume Offensive.
I Petrograd, Nov. 6. Via London,
I i 2:21 p. m. German forces yesterday
I 'i several times resumed the offensive"
I i on the Russian western front in the
I region east of the village of Lipitiza-
I Dolnaia and west of the village of
I Silvaventin, with the object of cap-
I 5 turing the commanding heights occu-
I :J pied by tho Russians. All the Ger-
; man attacks, according to an official
j statement issued today by the Russian
j war department, were frustrated by
v a violent Russian artillery and rifle
j fire. The battle is still going on.
8 Germans Capture Heights.
Berlin, Nov. G By wireless to Say
L ville to Sayvllle. In Rumania, south
; tvest of Predeal, the invading Austro
German forces yesterday captured
", Loamu height, it is announced offi
j cially. Further progress was made
southeast of Rothenlhurm pass. Ru-
manlan attacks in the region of tho
Szarduk pass were repulsed.
Balkan Situation Unchanged,
rj Sofia, -Nov. G. Via London, 9:40
V a. m. Unchanged conditions on all
'( fronts are reported in the official
f statement issued by the war office
k today.
r iue text oi me statement follows:
,;' "Macedonian front: The situation
; is unchanged. At the foot of the
Belaschitza mountains the enemy
i fruitlessly bombarded several villages
In the Struma valley there was weak
artillery fire. The situation was quiet
on the Aegean coast.
I "Rumanian front: In the Dobrudpa
.; engagements took place between ad
; vajced detachments. Ecnmy ships
, which were bombarding Constanza
were forced to withdraw by attacks
' from our seaplanes."
Po.-V,irnt A"ack on French,
'j m E8' Nov 6' 12 noon. A violent
attack was made last night by Gorman
troops on tho positions captured by
the French between Sailly-Saillisel
and the St. Pierre-Vaast wood. The
war office announced today that this
assault- was repulsed with heavy loss
to the Germans.
Some ground was gained by the Ger
mans in the wood and in the village of
Saillisel.
On the Verdun front there has been
active cannonading In tho Damloup
region, but no infantry engagements
occurred.
British Lose Ground.
London, Nov. 6, 1:45 p. m. A strong
German counter attack last night com
pelled the British to relinquish a por
tion of the territory they had captured
In tho neighborhood of Butte de War
lencourt, on the Somme front, the war
office announced today.
Great Fight on the Somme.
Berlin, Nov. 6, by wireless to Say
vllle. The western front statement
from Berlin is as follows:
"In the continuous battle on the
Somme, the fifth of November was an-1
other fighting day of the first class.
The British and French with the
strongest forces made a powerful ad
vance against the front of General von
Below's army. Troops under Generals
Baron Marschal von Deimling and von
Gamier withstood the attack unshak
en. The allied enemy ont he entire
front from Le Sars to Bouchavesnes, 1
a distance of 20 kilometers along
which they attacked, suffered the
heaviest losses and accomplished noth
ing except a small local gain in the i
north part of St. Pierre-Vaast wood.
The enemy left ten officers, 310 men I
and booty In our hands. North and ;
east of Le Sars more than 70 prisoners '
and 11 machine guns were brought in.
"Near Soissons an attack by a weak
French detachment was repulsed.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
(Verdun front) in the Hardaumont
sector there was violent artillery and ;
hand grenade fighting."
American Tells of Experience
on British Steamship Mid
land, Bound for Havre.
New York, Nov. G. "I have been a
marine engineer since 1891, but never J
have I gone through an ordeal like i
the one that a German submarine put
upon us a ,few weeks ago," declared
Frederick Smith of Hartford, Conn.,
who arrived here last night from Liv
erpool on the American line tseam
sin'p St. Louis.
Smith stated that ho was induced
to Isgn as third engineer on the Brit
ish freight steamship Midland by
promise of good pay and assurances
that the vessel was bound for China
and would not enter the European
l war zone. When off St. Lucia he
learned that the ship was bound for
Vladivostok.
"After leaving tho Siberian port
wh went to Australia, where w.e load
ed grain for Havre." said Mr. Smith
in telling his story.
Halted by Seven Shots.
"At 6:30 p. m. on October 20 we
were halted by seven shots. None hit
us, but we found they had come from
a submarine which had come to the
surface a few hundred yards away.
"We had a crew of 33, eight of us
white men and the others Lascars.
I was the only American on board.
We were ordered to the lifeboats,
eighten men going in one and 15 of
us in another. We were ordered to ap
proach the submarine and the German
commander forced us to come aboard.
He put some of his crew into our
boats, and they went out to the Mid
land and sank her. After four ex
plosions we 6aw her dark hull roll
over and go down.
"Tho Germans used only one Eng
lish expression when they returned
to the submarine after sinking the
Midland. That was 'Get ouL' Wo
drifted throughout the night until at
! daybreak a French trawler picked us
up and kept us aboard for two days.
Later it took us into St. Malo."
nr.
Predict Majority of 15,000
Women of State to Vote
for FirstJT-irne.
LARGE VOTE FORECAST
Republicans Claim State of
Pennsylvania by Majority of
200,000 Votes.
Chicago, Nov. 6 Although the
presidential, state, congressional and
local campaigns in Illinois were prac
tically closed Saturday, leaders and
candidates of the various parties
spent today in perfecting organization
in the wards and precincts. A few of
tho candidates made speeches during
the day, but the chief activity was
left to tho party workors who attended
to details that had been overlooked
heretofore.
The chairman of both Democratic
and Republican parties claim the
state will cast its vote for their re
spective candidate for president 'by
practically the same majority 15,000.
The Republican chairman also claims
that Frank A. Lowden will be chosen
governor by 150,000, while the Demo
cratic chairman puts forth the claim
that Governor Edward F. Dunno will
be re-elected by 75,000 plurality.
Women of Illinois will vote for pres
ident for the first time tomorrow,
:
i ' To All Republicans of Weber County:
a" . "Tnc clos'ng days of the campaign have come. The canvass and registration are complete. Notwithstand-
!nL extrava9ant claims of our opponents our statistics point to victory for the entire ticket from top to
bottom. J r
j
. JUr campaign needs but the final punch you alone can give It to put us across the line several laps
5x ahead of our opponents.
f The swing to our candidate for president throughout the ca3t Is so tremendous that his election is tiow
m practically conceded by a who are not biased and prejudiced. We must keep Utah In line, and It will be in
ft line. The reports from the remainder of the state, Inc ludlng Salt Lake county, Indicate the same swing to
r Mugnes that is shown throughout the nation. Utah wa s the only state besides Vermont that kept the Repub-
1, '"can faith four years ago. Nov that the other old-tlm e Republican states have come back, Utah must not
9k ?u u t0 Democracy an make us the laughing stock of the nation. Utah will not fall Weber county, always
the banner Republican county, must be in line, and you can put it there.
Ill uWc haV thS stron9e3t ticket that the p2rty has had In the field for many years and the opposition ticket
III ' tne weakest. The Democrats have not dared to make any fight for their local candidates, and their only
IT hope has been that their national ticket might carry them Into office.
lit Tne people of Weber county, to safeguard their own Interests, for the sake of a business-like and eco-
Bf nomlc administration of their own affairs, cannot afford to have our local Republican ticket defeated. You
3t must not let It be.
mVT; Our position on state Issues Is the strongest It hac ever been. Our platform pledges fully to meet the
If-' needs of our people. Tho past lives and records of our candidates for state office constitute an absolute guar-
MK anty that those pledges will be kept. To defeat them the opposition has been compelled In the last few days
Mm to resort to the most outrageous lies and to make the most absurd accusations. Do not let the people be de-
l ccived. Your candidates and your committee have entered Into no entangling alliances and have made no
nV promises contrary to the platform pledges.
I Nationally we are fighting for great principles; for the restoration of the protective tariff, which alone
I brings permanent prosperity to all our people; for a' strong foreign policy which alone will protect our national
, honor and dignity, and safeguard the lives and property of our citizens at home and abroad.
i The prosperity of the free Institutions Is dependent upon our, winning,
i We must win. We are going to win.
! The party Is united as never before in its history. Old scores are healed; old differences are forgotten;
j harmony prevails and our ranks are filled not only wl th the enthusiastic veterans of former wars but with
H the ard-ent apd zealous recruits of the present. Victory rests with you. The eyes of the nation are upon you.
I In your hands rests the Issue of the battle. Every Republican Is expected to do his duty. Ve want results
I and we are going to get them. The nation, the state and the county will be in the victorious procession.
Not a single Republican should fall to be In line. We want you all there.
f ' C. R. HOLLINQSWORTH,
j- Chairman Republican County Committee.
WIFE OF MAN WHO DESERTED U. S. TO I
GET BRITISH TITLE AIDS WAR RELIEF
Latest portrait of Baroness Astor.
Baroqcss Astor is the wife of the former New Yorker, William Waldorf
Astor, who relinquished his American citizenship in order to accept a
'British title. The Astors' havc a huge 'fortune, Ifmade in' America," a larg
part of the income from which they are contributing- to British war relief.
though they have not the privilege of
voting for state officers, with the ex
ception of trustees of the state uni
versity. 6
Washington a Close State.
Seattle, Wash., Nov. G. At Republi
can and Democratic state headquar
ters claims of victory are made, but
the fact that the campaign is being
waged as vigorously today as at any
time Indicates that both sides consider
Washington a close state. Where rain
did not forbid, street meetings were
held. The contest between Governor
Ernest Listr, Democrat, and former
Governor Henry McBrlde, Republican,
for the governorship, is thq feature of
the closing hours of the campaign.
Both Sides Claim Oregon.
T-irlnnfl Orn XTr' fi 'RnniihHrnni
and Democrats today both claimed
Oregon for their respective president
tial candidates. The supporters of
Charles E. Hughes said he would run
ahead in all parts of the state, while
tho adherents of President Wilson
claimed thoir candidates would carry
Portland by a majority largo enough
to offset any advantage his opponent
might gain outside the city. Tho Dem
ocrats hold their final rally tonight.
Interest outsklo the presidential race
centered on the congressional fightB
In which the Republicans claimed
victory.
Final Appeals In Montana,
Helena, Montana, Nov. 6. Candi
dates for state offices in Montana
made their final appeals for votes
today. A majority of tho candidates
spoke to the voters of their home
towns. Leaders of the two big parties
claim the stato for their own party.
Tho Prohibition nd anti-Prohibition
managers each claim tho state.
Idaho Campaign Quiet.
Boise, Idaho, Nov. 6. The campaign
is closing quietly In Idaho today.
Prohibition workers were out after
votes for a constitutional prohibition
amendment and tho candidates for
states offices made their final
speeches in their home towns.
Republicans Claim Pennsylvania.
Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 6. Final
preparations for tomorrow's election
wore completed today. Democratic
leaders predict that tho largest Dem
ocratic vote ever registered In this
city will bo polled for President Wil
son whilo the Republican leaders an
ticipate a majority of 150,000 or more
for Hughes In Philadelphia, and claim
ho will carry the state by 200,000.
Large Vote to Be Cast.
Atlanta, Ga., Nov. G. Notwithstand
ing that the Republicans have made
spirited fights in several southern
states, Democratic leaders seemed to
day chiefly concerned with the prob-,
lem of getting out the voto in an ef
fort to givo President Wilson an un
usually large plurality.
Although it is conceded that the
electoral vote of the south will go
to the Democratic candidate as usual,
this year the Republicans have picked
Tennessee, North Carolina and Flor
ida as favorable battle grounds and
have waged hot fights for state and
national tickets there. The other
states have ben occupied mainly with
local issues and a few contests for
congress.
Factional Fight in Delaware.
Wilmington, Del., Nov. 6. Stirred
by a factional fight In the Republican
ranks on the election of a United
States senator and congressman, cam
paigning continued up to the eleventh
hour throughout Delaware today. Both
the Republicans and Democrats claim-
or ihn nlnto fnr Ihoir nreatrlpntfnl
electors.
Desperate California Contest.
San Francisco, Nov. 6. Hughes and
Wilson supporters, both claiming the
state, Prohibitionists and "antis" and
partisans of many other issues on the
California ballot polished their sabers
today for desperate endeavors at the
polls tomorrow. Congressmen in the
state's evelen districts are to be chos
en,, and a United States senator, but
no governor. George S. Patton of
Los Angeles, Democrat, Is opposing
Governor H. W. Johnson, Republican,
leader of the late Progressive party
in California, for the senatorship.
All records have been surpassed in
the registration of voters, and women
voters have been particularly active,
Wilson supporters organizing the All
Parties League for Wilson to offset
tho campaigning of Hughes women.
Hughes and Wilson Rallies.
Sioux Falls, S. D., Nov. 6 The cam
paign closes today in South Dakota
today with Hughes and Wilson rallies
In several cities and with both Re
publican and Democratic leaders pre
dicting victory. A bitter fight on pro
hibition ends with the dry forces pre
dicting a victory by 15,000 votes, but
thoir opponents equally confident. The
proposed woman suffrage amendment
may carry by a close margin, is the
general belief.
Nebraska Prohlbtion Fight.
Omaha, Neb., Nov. 6. In the closing
days of tho campaign In Nebraska,
all other Issues whether state or jja
tlonal, have been overshadowed by me
proposed prohibition amendment. The
most vigorous efforts have been made
on both sldeB to bring voters to their
support and both sides today are
claiming victory.
National Ticket in Doubt.
Tho result as to the national ticket
Is as much In doubt as that on the
liquor question. Democratic loaders
claim the state for Wilson by 15,000
to 25,000 majority, notwithstanding
his vote four years ago lacked 18,000
of equalling the combined vote ofl
Roosevelt and Tart. The contest fori
the senatorship has been very active
and both Hitchcock and Kennedy are
confident of success.
Fighting Chance for Wilson.
Fargo, N. D., Nov. 6. With both
party leaders making the last efforts
to assure wavering votes for their
candidates, the Republicans today
claim this state by 20,000 for Hughes,
but tho peculiar political angles which
have entered in the campaign, accord
ing to the Democratic leaders, will
give their candidate a fighting chance.
The Democrats claim John Burke,
treasuror of the United States, will
be elected United States senator over
Porter J. McCumber, Republican, will
bo elected by a majority of at least
7000 votes and that there is some
on the outcome of the presidential
vote.
Struggle in Colorado.
Denver, Colo., Nov. 6. The struggle
for the votes of the menand women
of Colorado to be cast tomorrow, con
tinued today by exhorted for both Re
publican and Democratic candidates
on national and state tickets. Both
sides were confident of victory.
A full state ticket and four con
gressmen will be chosen.
oo
FORECAST OF THE
ELECTION I UTI
"Morris for governor and Suther
land for senator will carry every
county in the state and their majority
will exceed 10,000," today declared
Glenn Martin, state chairman of the
Republican party. He said Hughes
would carry the state by at least
5,000.
That Wilson will carry the state by
12,000 to 15,000, while King and Bam
berger will be elected by more than
10,000, is the opinion of Democratic
State Chairman Thomas.
The Weber county chairmen hold
similar opposite opinions, as quoted
Saturday.
The headquarters workers are
frankly following the usual campaign
custom of "claiming everything."
oo
AERIAL SQUADRONS
FOR THE BORDER
i
San Antonio, Texas, Nov. 6. Major
D. B. Foulois, senior officer of the
United States aerial service, reported
today to General Funston as depart
ment officer, reported in a new posi
tion. He will begin tomorrow work
of organizing two new aero squadrons
for the southern department.
oo
OKLAHOMA TOWN BURNS.
Wirt, Okla., Nov. 6. For the sec
ond time in a year, fire last night
virtually wiped out the little town
in the Healdton oil field. Fifty build
ings were destroyed with a loss of
?125,000 and more than 300 homeless
persons were taken to Ardmoro to
be sheltered.
LAST ILL! OF THE
C1PH FOR
this mm
William H. King, candidate for the
U. S. senate and Milton H. Welling,
nomineo for the house of representa
tives, will speak on campaign Issues,
especially labor legislation, at a Dem
ocratic rally In the Orpheum theatro,
tonight at 8 o'clock.
The Orpheum orchestra and Eagles'
quartet will provide music. Despite
tho inclement weather, there will be
an automobile parade, red fire and,
outdor enthusiasm. The parade will
form at Democratic headquarters, on
Twenty-fourth street, and break ranks
at the Orpheum. Seats will be re
served for all in the trainmen's pa
rade. Weather permitting, there will be
an open-air meeting at City Hall
square for the overflow crowd. The
speakers will bo O. C. Nelson and C.
L. Olsen of Salt Lake, noted as
"whirlwind orators."
Officials at Democratic headquar
ters today said that Judge King Is
"ono of the greatest orators in Utah,
and Mr. Welling Is a most effectivo
campaigner."
Meetings also will be held tonight
at Huntsville, Plain City. Hooper,
Farr West, Taylor, Kanesvllle, Uintah,
Slatervlllo and North Ogden.
Democratic campaign leaders said
today that many automobllos will be
needed to help get out the vote tomor
row, and that persons donating th
use of their machines from 7 a. m.
to 7 p. m. will be gratefully remembered.
SUPREME COURT I
TO REVIEW CASE I
Will Consider All Questions of H
Oregon-California Contest H
Involving Vast Land H
Tracts. H
jvALIDITY OF LAW I
Transference to United States H
of Grants Made to Railroads H
to Be Decided. H
Washington, Nov. 6. A request by
the department of justice to co'nsider "
on its merits all questions of the Ore-
gon-California land case involving title H
to thousands of acres held by the
Southern Pacific and other railroads IH
was granted today by the supreme
court and oral argument set for Feb-
ruary 26. The government requested H
consideration of the validity of a law
passed last June transferring owner-
ship of the lands, originally given to IH
the railroads under land grant acts, H
to the United States.
To Review Hindoo Case.
Washington, Nov. 6. The supreme H
court today consented to review a
decree of lower federal courts order- H
ing deportation of 35 Hindoos from
San i-Tanclsco who were ill and like
ly to become public charges.
oo 1
GREAT ELECTION I
HGHTCLOSli I
Gov. Whitman Makes Nine
Speeches in New York i H
SEABURG SPEAKING ; I
Makes Street Corner Tour of '
West Side Both Claim
State. j
I
New York, Nov. 6. Tko day before I JM
election found both Republican and i jH
Democratic candidates for the gover
norship making appeals to the voters (
although victory was claimed for each !
of them by the respective chairmen 1
of their parties. Both selected this '
city for the scene of their campaign
activity. Governor Whitman had on
his program four noon day speeches :
and five tonight. :
Sam Seabury, following an after
noon attack in Rockland county, will : j
return to New York for an automo- ;
bilo street corner tour of the West
Side. Still predicting heavy plurali- :
ties for their respective tickets, the j
state chairmen were busy today niak-
ing final arrangements for watching j
the polls to see that the election raws
are observed. 1
The final forecast of Republican jH
State Chairman Tanner is that Gov- H
ernor Whitman with his running j jH
mates will carry the state by more IH
than 100,000. Democratic State ''R
Chairman Harris and the Tammany !Bi
leaders are giving out no specific fig- ,
ures officially, but claim that the
Democratic plurality in New York City j
will be so heavy that it will over
come the Republican plurality up
oo , 'im
MURDERER GIVEfJ
FIVE YEARS IN PEN
San AntoniOi Texas, Nov. 6. E. B. ;
Taylor, charged with killing E. S.
Burleson, a relative of Postmaster
General E. S. Burleson, is under sen- H
tence today of five years in the peni
tentiary after a trial here on a charge ll
of venue. At a previous trial the
jury disagreed. Burleson was slain in
Austin last year.
JU H
INCREASED PAY FOR
STREET CAR MEN
Kansas City, Mo., Nov. 6. Motor
men and conductors of the Kansas
City Railway company, tho local street
car organization, were told today that
an increase of pay of approximately 'jH
7 per cent will be given them start
ing November 16. The increase is
from one to two cents an hour and 'H
tho minimum monthly wage is raiBed
from $45 to $55.
oo 'M
R-ead the Classified Ads. jm
-oo
Read the Classified Ads.
JTookTT YO TE "NO " on 0ueslion No-2- "TAXES ARE fflMouGtfl I
MM r-
