craeciAUOFi I 7*77771 /Z T| A . iff 4 '# ___ j
v ' : w^aa'-'-'-fWr- jfTi'.v -A" **!#.fT .-^k ;>AS|!K',W v ^iBl ":- *, ' ' ' -'a." ;^y5^&*'VW * J*' < v;/<;v>;,
r%f.i^5,485 u h^ iltmttitMn fss
, , ^ WCTW, ? ? ^ ^iQ-f*pV fyfyy V'l"*' BRINGS TRADE IIB
; ' Northern West Virginia's Greatest Newspaper : ^
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^AIRMON^TOS^IRGINI^ON^YETCNIN^OVEMBER^WIS^^^twocent. ASSOCIATED PPR.W f
t. U. FIGHT
VIGOROIISLT
GUIItSItH
' Three Ballots Will Be Used
in Some of the Counties.
SUFFRAGE JTEREST HIGH
Soci?list Vote Expected to
| Have Important Bearing
on Result.
fBy Associated Picas)
Polls Open at 6:37
CHARLESTON, W. Va.. Nov. 6.
?Under tho law which says the
polls In West Virginia shall open
at sunrise and close at sunset, election
officers today wore calculat<
lng the exact minute when they
are to take up duties.
At Huntington tho hour has been
set for opening at 6:117 and closing
at 4:60.
CHARLESTON, W. Va.. Nov. 6.?
Today marks the close ot one of tho
most notable political campaigns in
the history of West Virginia. It has
not been an spectacular as that Involving
the prohibition question but has
been bb vigorously contested. The Republicans
have rnado their campaign
mainly on tho fundamental principles
ot their parly, together with tho claim
that their administration of the affairs
of the state have been progressive, aggressive
and yet cheap to the taxpayers.
The Democrats during the last
two months ot tho campaign have not
based their claims for preference so
much upon the accomplishments of the
national administration us on au antistate
administration platform.
asiue iruui uie yunr iso>jcn ?l Mttni;,
the question of equal suffrage will be
/ d'vJded as will the question of whothF,cr-^embers
of the county courts will
I? he allowed $4 a day for their services
or $2 a day. the salary which lias been
attached iu uie office since it was established.
An amendment to the state
constitution-(ras~ttrWrtltrfred by the
voters in each Instance. The suffrage
. question will be voted on toegther with
the National, state, district and county
ticket, on one ballot. The county
court amendment will be voted or.
separately, such being directed by the
act of 1915 legislature which provided
that a popular voto should decide the
question.
In Jackson county, on a separate and
third ballot, the voters will determine
whether the county scat shall remain
at Ripley or be removed to Sandyville,
which is more centrally located. In
some other counties, none of which are
required to report mi the matter to
the secretary of state, the question of
the issuance of bonds for public road
Improvement will be decided.
The voters of the Fourth congrcs
\. sional district will decide at the gen :
tral election whether Frank D. McCoy,
{ of Slstcrsvllle. Democratic candidate.
l' or Harry C. Woodyard, of Spencer, Re|
publican candidate for Congress will
*. be elected to serve out tho unexpired I
' term of the late Congressman Hunter
Holmes Moss, of l'arkersburg.
The total vote cast In 1912 tor the
presidential candidates in West Vir- .
*' ginla was 268,828 or 552 more than
were cast tor governor. Henry 1).
Hatfield, Republican, was elected governor
over William R. Thompson, Dem
ocrat, by 8,770. Woodrow Wilson carried
the state with a plurality of 34,i
085 over Theodore Roosevelt who reseived
79.112 voteB while William H.
Taft received 56,754. The total vote
cast for tho Democratic nominee for
president was 42.10 per cent. The combined
vote of Roosevelt and Taft was 1
50154 per cent. The Socialists cast !
69 per cent of the votes, leaving the
^prohibitionists with 1.67 per cent.
(Continued on page 10)
Every Mar
, DEMOCRAT
WOODROW WILS
I Democratic Candidate for
L VOTED FOlt SUFFRAGE IN
id stands upon his party's national pis
I' VOTES FOR WOl
JOHN J. CORNW
Democratic Candidate foi
V STANDS FOR WOMAN ?
V tnd lias endorsed his party's state plat
VOTES FOR WOI
!' Authorized and paid for by West Virg
r
j Every voter, regard]
H boys and girls, shot
A SACRED DUTY
(An Editorial)
THE campaign of 1016 is over. The issues hare been stated
according to the abilities.of the candidates and the workers
of their parties. All over the country offices in which
men wrought up by partisan zeal have toiled almost ceaselessly
since the middle of June are today quiet and well nigh deserted.
The workers have gone to their homes or are idling about?and
waiting. In the news rooms of great newspapers and the offices
of traffic chiefs of the telegraph companies the vast systems
for gathering the returns are being given a final inspec-*
tion, but even these men are waiting. In the chancelleries of
the great powers on the other side of the Atlantic and even in
the underground quarters of the field staffs on the battlefields
of Europe other men are waiting?waiting for a nation of
110,000,000 people, possessed of unlimited wealth, inexhaustible
natural resources, uutold potentialities for good or evil and unescapable
inlluenccs upon the destinies of the whole world, to
uceiarc its purpose.
It is a solemn hour?this pause between the fever of the campaign
and the opening of the polls. It ought to bring home to
every man a sense of his personal responsibility and nerve him
to go forth on Tuesday to vote according to the dictates of his
own conscience and, like the l'hillistines of old, quit himself
like a man, no matter what pressure is brought to bear or what
temptations are thrown in his way.
The West Virginia voter especially should feel the call to go
>n.? w,...* \r:. i> ki:. ? ...i 4t...i At.
iu uiv pwu.">. ???:.>i tubulin lifpuuucaiia icui surt' inai wifir
ticket will wiu by a plurality mounting high in the thousands,
but the Democrats have not lost hope, and in all the estimates
of impartial observers the state is placed in the doubtful column.
No one can peer beneath the surface and determine with
any degree of certainty what the outcome is going to be. Ap->
jmreutly the issue is a close oue and it is conceivable that it will
turn on a smaller number of votes than the eight which West
Virginia has in the electoral college. Here in Marion county
and in the First congressional district it is probable that the
difference between the total number of votes east for the winners
and the losers will be small. In such circumstances every
single vote is a vital matter.
ii is n meianenoiy raci mat tnc average citizen docs not think
often enough of the tremendous importance of an individual
vote. To bring this point home a writer for an eastern newspaper
recently recalled the following highly significant facts:
One less electoral vote would have defeated Thomas
Jefferson for President and put Into that office Aaron Burr.
One more vote in the senate would have impeached Andrew
Johnson us President of. the United States.
A deciding vote In the senate cast by Vice President Dallas
enacted a tarift law.
One more electoral vote would have sent Samuel J. Tllden
to the White House and kept Rutherford B. Hayes in
Ohio.
A change of fiOO votes in New York State in 1884 would
have defeated Grover Cleveland and made James G. Blaine
President.
At suurise tomorrow the polls will open throughout the
length and brendth of West Virginia. By sunset the verdict of
the ballots will have been given. Whether the result will make
for good or for evil depends amost entirely upon how that large
element in the electorate which at bottom believes in law, order,
honesty and efficiency in government acquits itself.
Earnest men may differ regarding the complex national issues
,bnt it is our humble opinion that for men who want West
Virginia to stand fortli proudly among the sister common
weaiuis more is omy one siae to tne argument on tne state and
county contest. But, unfortunately, the light is by no means
one siiled, and the forces of Darkness are well organized and
determined to win if possible. They will triumph if the forces
of Light are not up and doing.
No man who neglects to go to the polls and register his will
lias a right to hold up his head among his fellows. No matter
how much wealth lie possesses or how important he may believe
himsef to be in his own social and business circles he is not in
full truth a freeman and a citizen if he does not vote.
Don't be a political eunuch.
I
Fire Destroys Oil 'Wheeling Girls Lost
Town in Oklahoma1 With the Connemar
WIRT, Okla., Nov. 6.?For the sec- WHEELING. Nov. 6.?Miss Ma
ond time in a year lire last night Mullen and her sister who loft Whei
virtually destroyed this little boom ing recently for Ireland and Englai
town in the Ilealdon oil Hold. Fifty are believed by friends here to habuildings
were destroyed with loss of been lost when the steamer Conn
5126.000. More than 300 homeless per- mara went down in the Irish sea la
Bons were taken to Ardmore. Friday night.
Put some new blood in the count}) Crush the laxeating Democratic rh
government and stop the favoritism, bp electing the Republican county of;
Elect Republican candidates. ccrs.
w vr n ww
i W ho V otes Agair
All Parties and All Candidat
IC REPUBLICAN
SON CHARLES EVANS HUGHE
President Republican Candidate for PreB
NEW JERSEY STANDS FOR WOMAN SUFF1
itform which declares for i nnd hm himanif <
HEN. VOTES FOR WOMEN.
. in both State and Nation.
ELL ?
p Governor IRA B. ROBINSON
'TTFFitArv Republican candidate for Govt
, . , , , STANDS FOR WOMAN SUFF1
tform which declares lor and has ondorsed his partes state platform
dE?. f VOTES FOR WOMEN.
inla Equal Suffrage Association!
less of party affiliation, who wishes this c
ild vote for W. H. Veach for Sheriff a,
........ " ^ & J. 1. 'sKj&i
"Vote in the Fear
of God" is Appeal
of a Local Pastor
The following appeal, which appeared
in the bulletin of one of
Fairmont's churches yesterday,
should be emblazoned on tbo heart
and mind of every voter when he
enters the voting booth tomorrow:
As your pastor I appeal to
you the men of my church, to
I remember that the casting of a
ballot next Tuesday is the most
solemn duty of your citizenship,
and ought to be cast in the fear
ot God, and with an eye single
to the best interest ot yonr
community and commonwealth
amfnatton. You are not responsible
(or the election or defeat
of any man or party, but
you are responsible before God
to be true to yourself and to
your best judgment of men and
issues. Less than this cannot
be required of a follower of
Him who said. "Soek first the
Kingdom of God and Hie righteousness."
Moorefield Man
Kills Big Eagle
<By Associated Tress)
MOOREFIELD. \V. Va., Nov. 6.?
Thomas Bean, of Sabius. this county,
has killed a golden eagle that measured
6 feet 6 inches fro tnllp to tip of
wing and weighed 14 pounds.
Attend Insurance Convention?Geo.
Herling and O. F. Graham, local representatives
of the Metropolitan Life In
? surance company, returned from Cincinnati
last night where they had been
in attendance at the tri-annuai convention
of their company. The convenQ,
tion was addressed by the president
of the company and other notables of
its organization.
ry
Si- ~
5 LABORERS
28c Per Hour
ng New Normal School grounds,
f(. Locust Avenue.
11 !
ist Equal !
:es Are Standing c
IS
Idant Pr
HAGE ST,
ror
and endorses hi;
There is i
;rnor
ilAGE
which declares for Endorse U
ommunity to grow an<
nd Hollo J. Conley ft
IS MEANS YC
f^^vour.
| couhirv':
| sake:
A tvsmxy pftfeg
IILLLU Ul UIIUIlllU
Officer Arrests Man Who
Shouts "Hurrah for
Hughes" Saturday
Monday morning police court as
usual was a busy session. Fred Miller,
drunk, paid $5 (inc. Clarence Parker.
charged with yelling "Huirah (or
Hughati' was-areested-by Night Chief
Seamon and put in jail Saturday night
He was gotten out on a forfeit and
(ailed to show up this morning.
Cecil Miller, who claimed ho got
drunk on his homo liquor arranged
payment of a five dollar fine. George
Washington, colored, drunk, forfc.ted
$5. Harry Knapp. drunk, brought his
liquor from Beilaire. He got off with
a $5 fine.
Andrew Clayton paid a flno for
the privilege of getting drunk and being
cared for by tho police. Godfrey
Johnson for the 'steenth time immediately
after his "Good morning, judge."
pleaded guilty to a drunk and was
fined $5. He paid.
Warren Harris forfeited $5 on a
charge of fighting. R. Williams and
S. Round, both colored, were arrested
for fighting. Williams got out on a
forfeit. Round this morning pleaded
not guilty, which forced tho mayor to
postpono the case until Williams can
be found.
The Weather
West Virginia?Probably fair tonight
and Tuesday warmer.
LOCAL WEATHER READINGS
F. P. Hall, Observer
Temperature at S a. m. today 31.
Yesterday's weather cloudy; temperature.
maximum 61; minimum 29;
precipitation none.
WANTED.
Fire boss. Apply Plant No. 9,
Jamison Coal and Coke Company,
Fairmont, W. Va.
Suffrage R
>n Woman Sufftc
PROHIBITION
J. FRANK HANLY
ohlbition candidate for President
ANDS FOR WOMAN SUFFRAGE
b party's1 national platform which decl
VOTES FOR WOMEN.
10 Prohibition State ticket this year, h
ALL PROHIBITIONISTS
leir National platform Which declares f
VOTES FOR WOMEN.
i prosper, and be a s;
tr Prosecuting Atto\
?* J/'**** v
y-voi
firiirr
m i in pi mnuw
)U!
_
"C IIm
r I raw
i mm
i
W*V ;>-;,
;X>'P-Sw ABOUT VOU V.Vv"
Election Result
M. V. T. CO. WILL SIGNAL HUGHES
OR WILSON VICTORY TO
ENTIRE CITY
If President Wilson is re elected, the
lights in the City of Fairmont, as
furnished by the Monongahela Valley
Traction company, will be blinked for
two seconds. If Mr. Hughes Is elected
president, tho lights will be extinguished
twice for oerlods of two
seconds each.
Announcement of this feature was
made at the office of the traction company
today. There'it -whs "believes
that the result, so far as the presidency
is concerned, will be known in
Fairmont by midnight tomorrow night.
Robinson Backers
Are Confident
Money that the owners may wish to
wager upon John J. Cornwell to win
the election for governor will have
but little trouble finding a taker today.
Krionds of Robinson in this city
are ready to arrange a bet for any
amount up to {25,000.
None of the Cornwell money could
be found up to a late hour tills afternoon
and the ample amounts that the
Robinson supporters have lias made
mnn? r\t Ihnan nrh/v havn lianlrA.1 i
" UM,U "*vnou v,u,u'
well (eel a sudden sinking sensation
in tho pit of their stomachs.
Votc to break ?P Me partnership between
bootlegging and the law. Vote
for the Republican countJ) ticket
NOTICE
. City taxes are now due
and payable at the City
Treasurer's Office, Monroe
street. A discount of
2y2% will be allowed.
J. R. MILLER,
Treasurer.
Repudiates
ige Platforms
i ^
a
ALL
Socialist <
STANDS F(
ares (or aud eudorses his party's
I VOTJ
Ut Socialist (
STANDS F(
rt* r, ?J Vi la r\o r
" auu uao cuuviocu uio jk"
VOT]
ife and proper place i
rney.
QUIET cm 10 1
I CM 1
III THFI1WI
in mi. iiiiiiuii v$a
Both Candidates Will
ceive the Returns in Privacy.
nnnn [mm uifatiifb 1
IJUUU LLLUIIUII IILnillLll j
Expected That Practically a
FFull Vote Will Be
(Ry \-s(jrIntrcl Pran) ;>"VJ|S
NEW YOKK, Nov. 6. ? Presldsn* 'yS
Woodrow Wllsou and CharlM HL '
Hughes, candidates of dominant p?Tv ;
ilea for tho presidency, remained at '/>
their homes today recuperating from
the labor of tho lung campaign. The-'
lust word sent forward by them to the ' ?$1
people wu8 an expression that each iS?
felt confident of victory.
President Wlltwn else. In ~en.le "'.)
quietly at home today and hl? only
activity tomorrow will be a trip to
1'rlncoton to cast bis ballot. Tomorrow .'eH
night with only members ot hi* {am- -jsM
Uy about bim ho will receive the re- " .130
turns in his study at Shadow Lawn.; v
Mr. Hughes remained at his hotel A
early In tho forenoon but later Visited ' -'4im
the National Hepubllcan headquarters .. 9jj|
quietly. It was stated to thank the
workers there for their efforts In his . \
behalf lie Intended to take a drive "re
through the park this afternoon andv 'rj&M
spent the rest of the day at his hotel. V.iJB
Tomorrow ho will vote In bis homfc 'Hi
district here an dtomorrow night will get
the returns at his hotel rooms.
l.lko Mr. Wilson he plans to have onijr Vq?jsj
the immediate members ot his family ,
with him when returns come. v..'iujSS
Political headquarters still presented
a degree of activity today. Last
ports from political battlefield were, ' vl
received and final Instructions sent. ".SsBi
Both the chairmen had little to add to.. ',-,2|
forecasts issued Saturday night. Re- . (
publican Chairman Wilcox then pre- '1
dieted Hughes would received at least ."J?
100 majority In the electoral college
while Democratic Chairman McCormick
gavo Mr. Wilson 364 votes In
that body. The necessary eleoUvt Jf i
vote in the college is 266. i $??
The larger participation of women Cas
voters in a prcsidentlaLxMnpalgn.-- ?i
and fhe cbhgreBsional election are ot
keen interest to politicians genernlly; ^^)
The returns from the states in which ,Vi338H|
women will vote It Is admitted will 1? '<Y??
closely and anxiously scanned.
So far aB Congress Is concerned's
full house of representatives and 'S3
United States senators will be elected.
Tho total membership ot the bouse is .''3S3
435 and tiio necessary majority is 218. S-SvSl
In tlio Senate tbc present membership
Is 90 and necessary majority is 49. In 'i
all 35 new senators will take seats ?,-<?9
next March. The Republicans elected,
two at tbo September election
Forty-two of the states #111 elect K|ji
state officials tomorrow In addition
to Congressional candidates. Of thekeT $s]
I states 35 will elect governors. " \ -"VSgjH
1 Fair weather and moderate tempera- 'j
ture is the forecast generally for eleo-'7J80H
tlon day and If this prediction "h(ddS>.?^H
true virtually a full vote will be caat'~^ail|
throughout the country.
Democratic count}) officert toy. 1heyi-]ty
can't itop bootlegging. Elect Repab-' SSl
licans who will.
NOTICE TO II
TAXPAYERS!?
The 1916 tax books are now com- { .. ff,?
pleted and ready for collection. The l. :
books for all Districts will be tonnd j
at tbo Sheriff's Office daily until { ; ,
Noy. 30tb, the close of the discount [
period except Mannlngton district, j ' ?
which will be found at tbe Bank { .
of Mannlngton. Please pay today j
as I have more time to wait on yon'
cTd^CONAWAY, Sheriff}
.AN L. BENSON
Candidate for President
}R WOMAN SUFFRAGE
national platform which declares. fa^Q
SS FOR WOMEN.
Candidate for Governor
3R WOMAN SUFFRAGE
ty's State platform which declares tor!'.-.''
*
n which to rear his f|
-POLITICAL ADVERTISEMENT.
