rm
r
MES
VOL. XX NO. 199.
I3AKHE, VERMONT, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1910.
PIUCK, OXK CKXT.
THE BARRE ' DAI
Li
BRITISH LOSE
PART OF GAIN:
FRENCH HOLD
Germans Launched Counter-
Attacks to Retake Ground
Lost in the Anglo-French
Drive of Sunday and Were
Partially Successful Near
Butte De Warlencourt
FRENCH SENT THEM
BACK WITH BIG LOSS
Victory for the French Fol
lowed Important Capture
Between Sailly and St. Pi
erre Vaast Wood, in Which
a Considerable Number of
Prisoners Were Taken
London, Nov. 6. A strong German
rotintPr attack last night compelled the
, British to relinquish a portion of the
ground they had captured in the neigh
borhood of Butte de Warlencourt on the
Nomine front, the war office announced
to-day. The British had taken more
than 1,000 yards of the German front.
Paris, Nov. 6. A violent attack by
Herman troops wag made last night on
the positions captured by the French be
tween Sailly-Saillisel and St. Pierre
Vaast wood, the war office announced to
day. The assault was repulsed with heavy
loss to the Germans.
In their attack the French won three
(renches on the northern side of St. Pi
erre Vaast wood and the entire German
positions on the southern outskirts of j
the wood. In the course of these actions
there were captured 522 prisoners, of
whom 15 were officers.
Keeping up their offensive in the Ver
dun region the French have been enabled
to occupy the entire village of Vaux and
also the "town of Damloup, a mile to the
east of Fort Vaux.
INVASION OF TOWN
ENDS IN BLOODSHED
At Least Five Men Were Killed and 40
Others Wounded at Everett,
Washington.
Everett, Wash., Nov. 6. At least live
men were killed and 40 others were
wounded yesterday in a fight at the Ev
erett City wharf between 2.'i0 member
of the Industrial Workers of the World
who came here from Seattle on the
steamer Verona and a posse of 130 citt
ern headed by Sheriff Don McRae. Slier.
n McKae is among the seriously wound
ed.
The number of casualties aboard the
Verona is not known. AbouB 1,000 shots
were exchanged. The Verona then start
ed back to (Seattle. Many men were seen
to fall on the deck of the steamer, and
others, panic stricken, jumped over
board. Some were taken from the wat
er and others disappeared and it is be
lieved they were drowned.
The Verona reached Everett shortly be-
for 2 o'clock. The coming of the. party
of invaders had been announced in mes
sages sent to Everett from Seattle head
quarters. A call to the Industrial Work
ers of the World members from all over
the state had been issued earlier in the i
Submarines
IN MEXICO GULF
British Government Warns
Mexico That It Must
Not Aid Them .
LATTER SUGGESTS IT
IS HER OWN AFFAIR
And Advises Great Britain
to Stop Escape of the
Submarines
Mexico City, Nov. 6. The Mexican
government has been notified by the
British ambassador at Washington of the
presence of German submarines in the
week ana t ie citizens of r.verett at a(Julf of Mexi(,0 an1 ma warned th(! aUjeg
meeting jieiu naiurnay mgni planned to
meet the invaders and deny them privi
lege of landing,
GERMANS CLAIM VICTORY.
Resiist'd Attacks by Strongest Anglo
French Forces.
Berlin, via wireless, Nov. 6. The Brit
lull and French, using their strongest
forces, made continuous attacks yester
day on the Somme front. The war office
announces that tne lierman troops wuu
stood these attacks unshaken.
In Rumania, southwest of Predeal, in
trading Austro-German forces yesterday
raptured Laomu height, it is announced
officially. Further progress was made
southeast of Rothenthurm pass. Kuma
nian attacks in region of Szurduk pass
were repulsed.
RUMANIANS FORCE
TEUTONIC FORCES
BACK IN DOBRUDJA
In Their Retirement Teutons Set Fire to
Four Villages Which are Named
By Bucharest War Office.
Bucharest, via London, Nov. 6. The
var office announces that Rumanian
forces in Dobrudja have compelled the
retircjment of Teutonic troops, which
in their retreat set fire to several vu
lages. '
The villages burned were Daeni, Gar
lici. Rosman and Gaidar. AH four are
situated about 40 miles north of Con
Mnnza on the Tchernavoda railroad.
DESTROYED STEAMER
CALLED AMERICAN
Lanao Sunk By Submarine Is Said at
Washington to Have Been Bought
By a Norwegian.
London, Xov. 6. Lloyds announces
that the steamship Lanao, described as
American, was sunk by a submarine on
Oct. 28. Thirty men were landed at
Barry. The men, after being landed at
Barry, were brought in by the Norwegian
steamship Troinp.
German submarines had been active for
pome weeks off the Spanish coast, where
the Lanao was apparently sunk. One
submarine commander i credited with
the statement that he had received orders
to sink all vessels bound for England.
Spanish vessels, it is said, later were ex
empted on the understanding that they
were to carry nothing but fruit.
The Lanao was a vessel of 692 tons
Cross and 190 feet long. The last report
told of her arrival at Sues on Oct. 9 in
the course of a voyage from French China
for Havre. The Norwegian steamship
arrived at Barry roads Saturday.
Washington Denies It was American Ship
Washington, I). C, Nov. 6. The steam
er Lanao was not an American-owned
vessel, according to the records bureau of
navigation of the department of com
merce, which show Hans Hannevrg of
Christiania, Norway, as owner. The rec
ords of the bureau show that the Lanao
was owned until recently by the Findlay
Miller Steamship to. Hersale to Han
nevrg was reported by the American
consul general at London July 24.
When the Verona reached the city
wharf, Sheriff McRae, who was backed
by a posse of deputy sheriffs and citi
zens, stepped forward and Informed the
men on the boat that they would not be
permitted to land. One of the men, evi
dently spokesman for the party, began
arguing with the sheriff and then made
a speech.
Apparently as a signal, the man
dropped his hand and armed men on the
steamer opened fire on the posse assem
bled on the wharf.
The first man to fall was Sheriff Mc
Rae, seriously injured. One man was
killed instantly and in a moment the
crowd on shore was panic Btricken. Dep
uty sheriffs on the wharf quickly ral
lied their forces, however, and returned
the fire.
Men on the wharf and on the boat fell.
The Verona immediately backed out ot
the dock and started back toward Seattle.
The trouble between the Industrial
Workers of the World and the authori
ties at Everett has been on for several
months and was the outgrowth of a
strike of shincle weavers here. After
several minor outbreaks of violence dur
ing the strike, Sheriff McRae organized
the citizens' committee and expelled all
members of the Industrial Workers of
the world from Everett.
On several occasions small parties of
men have attempted to enter Everett
but have been turned back' bv the sheriff.
Last Monday 45 members of the Indus
trial Workers of the World came from
Seattle by steamer but were met at the
wharf by the citizens' posse loaded into
automobiles and escorted to a point
south of the town, where they were lib
crated and ordered to. leave.
Last week, the "Industrial Workers
the official organ of the I. W. W., in
Seattle announced that the forcible ex
pulsion of men from Everett must be
avenged and called for 2,000 volunteers
to go to Everett to establish "the right
of free speech.
"The fight must be won," said the
paper, "as the whole future of the In
dustrial Workers of the World in this
section depends upon the outcome. We
want all foot loose rebels in the West to
center their attention upon Everett and
the trust mill and logging properties'.
Get on the job and use your judgment.
$350,000 FOR RELIEF.
Result of President's Appeal for Syrians
and Armenians.
Washington, Nov. 6. Red 'Cross head
quarters estimates that nearly $3"0.000
has been raised so far for relief ot nyr
ian and Armenian war sufferers as the
result of Pres. Wilson's proclamation
setting Oct. 21 and 22 as special days for
contributions. The last official counting
on Oct. 31 showed $225,000 on hand and
about $33,000 a day coming in.
AMERICAN IS KILLED.
In
Villista Raid on Santa Rosalia
Three Towns Taken.
El Paso, Tex., Nov. -8. Government
agents received what they assert to be
reliable information Saturday that San
ta Rosalia,' Parral and Jiminez, have been
taken by Villa bandits. It is not known
whether the towns were held by the ban
dits after their capture. American min
ing men also received additional confirma
tion Saturday of the report that Parral
was taken Tuesday.
Dr. Fisher, an American physician liv
ing at Snta Rosalia, was killed by Villa
bandits under Gen. Baudelio Uribe, ac
cording to the statement of a Mexican
refuge who arrived at Chihuahua City,
Mex., from Santa Rosalia late Satur
day. Dr. Fisher was one of the few
Americans known to have been in Santa
Rosalia at the time Villa bandits cap
tured the town.
to take drastic measures if the undersea
craft receive aid from Mexican ports or
sources. This information was made
public last night by Foreign Minister
Aguilar, who issued the text of a note
received from the Rritish ambassador
through Secretary Lansing and Charge
d'Affaires Parker.
The British note demands strict cen
sorship of Mexican wireless and says
that any failure to maintain Mexican
neutrality will be attended by disastrous
results.
In reply, Minister Aguilar says it
seems strange to the Mexican govern
ment that Great Britain should use the
United States state department as an in
termediary on a point concerning Mexico
alone, especially when Great Britain ha
an accredited representative m Mexico.
Aguilar states that the Mexican govern
ment feels it is unjust for the allies to
hold Mexico responsible for submarine
activities in the Gulf of Mexico when the
same submarines arrived in "American
ports and. sank ships in American terri
torial waters without causing a conflict
or difficulties between Germany and the
United States. He adds that Mexico de
sires to retain cordial relations with
(ireat Britain, and to this end suggests
that the English fleet prevent German
submarines leaving their base, thus ob
viating to the Mexican government the
disagreeable incidents caused by the Eu
ropean conflict. If such measures by
England are not efficacious Aguilar con
cludes, the Mexican government will take
such measures as the circumstances di
rect ehould the German submarines enter
Mexican waters.
WILSON AND HUGHES
AWAIT THE VERDICT
New York, Nov. (1. President
Wilson and Charles E. Hughes,
candidates for the dominant
parties for president, are to-day re
cuperating from the labors of a
long campaign. The last word sent
forward by them to the people was
an expression that each felt confi
dent of victory.
The president will .receive the re
turns to-morrow at Shadow Lawn,
after going to Princeton to vote,
and Hughes will be at his hotel in
this city. Both will be surrounded
only by their immediate family.
Political headquarters still pre
sented scenes of activity to-day.
Last reports from political battle
fields were received and final in
structions were sent.
BOY JUMPED
IN FRONT OF GUN
Ralph Conlin, IS, of Burlington Instant
ly Killed When Charge Struck Him
in Head He Was Duck Hunting
with Edward Phelps.
AMERICA SENDS
WARNING TO MEXICO
To Prevent Any Violation of Neutrality
Within Its Territorial Waters and
to Forbid Establishment of
Submarine Base.
Burlington, Nov. 6. Ralph Conlin, son
of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Conlin of South
Hero, wag accidentally shot by Edward
Phelps Saturday afternoon while duck
hunting, dying instantly. This is the
first tragedy in this vicinity the present
hunting season and was enacted at the
stone blind on the point of land owned
by Dr. H. Nelson Jackson of this city
which point runs from South Hero to
wards Providence island. The fatal ac
cident was purely accidental and was the
result of no carelessness on the part of
Mr. Phelps.
Ralph Conlin, who was but flften years
of age, was born ort the Phelps farm,
his parents being employed by Mr.
Phelps, who held the youth in great re
gard. He had never been away to school
until this year when he went to attend
Montpelier seminary.' and Saturday's
hunting trip was especially arranged for
him by Mr. Phelps and his father.
The three went to the blind which is
a rock blind situated near the point. In
order that the youth might have all the
advantage of the shoot he was given Mr.
Phelp's place near the front of the blind,
his father having the seat beside him
and Mr. Phelps retiring to a spot above
and a little back of the two. When the
ducks flew within shooting distance,
Ralph was given first crack at them and
he shot, bringing down a duck. His fa
ther then shot, wounding a duck. "Why
don t von kill that duck for your father,
Ralph?" asked Mr. Phelps. The boy did
not make any move to use his gun and
Mr. Phelps took sight and fired at the
bird. The boy jumped in front of the
muzzle of the shot gun at the same mo
ment the trigger was pulled, the charge
taking off the top if h's head, death fol
lowing instantly.
Mr. Phelps stayed with the boy while
the father rushed for a physican, a dis
tance of about a mile. Dr. N. J. Caron
found that the youth was dead upon his
arrival.
GAP. MAY WIN
STATE BY 20,000
Hughes Will Poll Large Por
tion of 1912 Progres
sive Vote
WILSON IS LIKELY
TO HOLD HIS OWN
Total of About 55,000 Votes
Expected to Be Cast
in Vermont
Normally a strong Republican state,
Vermont will go to the polls and vote for
Charles Evans Hughes for president to
morrow. The only question is the size
of the plurality. A very conservative
estimate of that plurality would be 20,
000, but it is possible that the figure will
run above that mark. President Wilson
is finding considerable support in Ver
mont becaus of the argument that he
was in large part responsible for "keep-
ng the country out of war, while, on
the other hand, the Republicans and Pro
gressives have not amalgamated entirely
Her the liuz schism, although the tend
ency has been very largely for the Pro
gressives to turn in anil support Hughes, j
It is probable that about fl.5,000 votes
will be cast. The number might be ex
pected to lie much larger had there been
(Socialist) J. McWilllams of Barre Town,
Lance Watson of Barre Town and A.
Broggi of Barre Town.
For assistant judges of county court:
(Republican) Georgu H. Dale of Water
bury and Charles H. Dana of Woodbury,
(Democratic) George A. Tilden of Rox
bury and George L. Pray of East Mont
pelier, (Prohibition) Edgar G. Coiburn of
Montpelier and James H. Wallace of AAa
terburv, (Socialist) J. A. CummingS of
Barre Town and Harry King of Barro
l own.
For judge of probate; (Republican,
Democratic and Prohibition) Frank J.
Martin of Barre; no Socialist nominee.
for state's attorney: (Republican)
Fred E. Gleason of Montpelier. (Demo
cratic), Harry C. Shiirtleff of Montpelier,
(Prohibition) Harry C. Slmrtlctf of Mont
pelier; no Socialist nominee.
ror sheriff: (Republican) Frank H.
Tracy of Montpelier, (Democratic) Den
nis DonHhue of Barre Town, (Prohibi
tion) John H. Leach of Montpelier, (So
cialist) S. Matson of Barre Town.
For high bailiff : ( Republican) E. J.
Bartlett of Plainficld. (Democratic) Dor.
man B. E. Kent of Montpelier, (Piohibi
tion) Leon M. Harris of Cabot; no So
cialist nominee.
MASTER MASON DEGREE
DIED IN WILLIAMST0WN.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 6. The Amer
ican government has informed the de
facto government of Mexico that precau
tions should be taken to prevent any vio
lation of Mexico's neutrality by the op
erations of belligerent submarines within
its territorial waters or the establish
ment of a submarine base on the Mexican
coast.
Information conveyed by a state de
partment official said to-day that in a
wholly friendly spirit and not at the sug
gestion of any of the entente powers a
denial had been made at the department
that any protest had been submitted to
Mexico City for the British ambassador.
BUSINESS INCREASES
But Duties Collected at St. Albans Were
Under Those a Year Ago.
St. Albans, Nov. 6. A slight gain in
exports and imports was made by the
Vermont customs district in October
September and a marked gain over Octo
ber of the year previous. The imports
last month were $2,701,078 as compared
with $2,382,073 for the same month last
year. The exports were $5,700,718, as
compared with $3,205,834 for October in
1 91 5. ihe duties last month were $21,-
3.10.42 as compared with $38,495.59 a
year ago.
POTATOES 94.13 A BARREL.
Bat Many Maine Farmers Hold Their
Stock for 95, Expected Before Spring.
Bangor, Me., Nov. 6. The potato mar-
et improved somewhat yesterday witn
B0ELKE DIED UNVANQUISHED.
Eye-Witness Tells of His Collision with
Another German Machine.
London, Nov. 6. An eve-witness ac
count of the death of Capt. Boelke was
given out at Berlin Saturday by the
Oversea News agency as follows: "Capt.
Boelke met the accident in which he was
killed at 5 o'clock on the afternoon of
Oct. 31. He had just disabled a hostile
machine in a fierce aerial combat.
George Come Recently Moved There from
Websterville.
George Come died Sunday morning at
6:45 at his home in Williamstown, after
a long illness, having been confined to
his bed for the past three weeks. The
cause of his death was pleurisy of the
heart. Mr Come lived for a long time
in Websterville, moving to a farm in
Williamstown about a year and a hall
ago.
He was born in Redford, N. Y., 02
years ago and 30 years ago was married
to Mary Lagor of Keeaeville, N. l., by
n. Barnebv. Xot many years later
they came to Vermont and have since
made their home in this state.
Mr. Come leaves his wife, four sons
Henry, Nelson and Leon, who live at
home and Alfred of Websterville; one
daughter, Mrs. Ida Compo of Williams
town; two sisters m Burlington, Mrs
Mose Lagor and Mrs. Louise Laneau;
three sisters in Redford, N. Y., Mrs,
Nora Ano, Mrs. Julia Ladeau and Mrs,
Melia Fcrnier; three half-brothers, Wil
liam Come of Redford, N. Y., John Come
of North Adams, Mass., and Charles
Come of Greylock. Mass.
The funeral will be held AAedneadav
morning at 9 o'clock in St. Sylvester's
church. Rev. Fr. Turcot officiating. The
Catholic Order of Foresters, of which
the deceased was a member, will be rep
resented at the funeral. Interment will
be made id the new Catholic cemetery,
BIG EXHIBITION PLANNED
PREDICT WILSON VICTORY.
New York and Chicago Heralds Fore
cast Results.
New York, Nov. 6. The New York
Herald's preelection country-wide poll,
published yesterday predicted the re-
i. i r j t - Z c election of Woodrow A ilson by a swe.-p-$4.15
a barrel offered for potatoes. Somo . . ... ,r ,. - . 4
Yi , j- ... , ing majority. Hhe Herald gives the
president 307 electoral votes to Hughes
224. The Chicago Herald predicts Mr.
Wilson's re-election.
ANCIENT POLAND DISTURBED.
Emprors William and Francis Joseph
to Set Up Old Rule.
Warsaw, Sunday, via Rerlin and Lon
don. Monday. Nov. 6. A manifesto of
Emperor William and Emperor Francis
Joseph again calling into existence the
ancient kingdom of Poland was read at
tioon to-day to assembled Polish repre
sentative in the royal palace by Gover
nor General Von Seseler.
of the farmers showed a disposition to
unload part of their stock at that price,
although many are holding for $5 a bar
rel, hich they expect to get before
spring.
MONTPELIER.
The first meeting in the bankruptcy
case of William M. Hatch of Barre was
held before Referee W. E. Tberiault this
morning. The bankrupt was present and
examined. No assets were found, and
no trustee was appointed. Jed O. Beck
ley, also of Barre. was examined and
no assets imina. trustee was ap
pointed. Both were represented by J.
Ward Carver.
Charles O. Foster of Boston is renew -
At an informal gathering of labor men
and others Saturday evening such sub
jects as national politics, the war. etc.,
were tabooed, but each member of the
party, without listenimr to anv of the
arguments peculiar to the political con- 'addition to the auditorium of city hall.
At New England Fruit Show in Montpe
lier Nov. 14-18.
The Montpelier Board of Trade has
everything connected with rts end of the
New England fruit show whichocenrs in
that city from Nov. 14 to 18 inclusive
well arranged and exacts that it will be
(he largest show of this nature that has
taken place in Vermont. M. B. Cum
mings of Burlington is co-operating with
the Board of Trade in evrry way in
hopes of bringing out tlu -prominent fea
tures of the Vermont Horticultural so
ciety's interests. Montpelier raised $500
towards financing the show which the
: i , .. i r t- i r .
iMwni iii i mui- is iMirnnjf in prizes.
Charles F. Brand's address upon mar
kets of the United States will be one of
the big features of the program, faking
place on Thursday afternoon, the 10th.
Mr. Brand is in charge of the market
bureau investigation as proposed tinder a
recent act of Congress, which gives him
JSOO.OOO appropriation to expend in his
investigations of the subject.
The returns on entries are so larjre
that the armory has been engaged for
the overflow of exhibits and addresses, in
n active campaign on both sides instead
of the merely one-sided campaign, in
which the Republicans themselves were
not active. It is reasonable to expect
hat the Republicans will poll approxi
mately 38,000 votes and the Democrats
5,000. Four vears ago the combined Re-
publican and Progressive vote was 45.404,
while Wilson received 1.5,354. Wilson is
expected to hold his own and the Repub
licans are likely to lose some of the Pro
gressive vote of four years ago. The Re
publican plurality in 1012 was only 1.200,
the smallest since the organization of
that party. The average plurality runs
slightly in excess of 25,000 votes." It is
not expected by anyone that Vermont
will get back to the Republican plural- j
ity of 1008, when Taft carried the state
over Bryan bv 28,053. However, the na
tional campaign managers of the Repub
lican party were perfectly sfe in putting
Vermont in the Hughes column.
Carroll 8. Page of Hyde Park will be
elected United States senator to succeed
hinwelf. He will be opposed by Oscar C.
Miller. Democrat, of Newport and Nor
man E. Greenslit, Socialist, of Bennington.
Equally plain sailing will it-be for
Porter H. Dale of Brighton for represen
tative in Congress from the second dis
trict and for Frank L. Greene for the
similar position from the first district.
Congressman Dale, who is the Prohibition
candidate as well as Republican, will
have two opponents in O. Herbert Pape,
Democrat, of Barre and John P. Marsh,
Socialist, of Rochester. In the first dis
trict Congressman Greene will not have
great difficulty from Emmett B. Daley,
Democrat.
The entire Republican state ticket will
be elected as follows: Governor, Horace
F. Graham of Craftsbury; lieutenant.gov
ernor, Roger W, Hulburd of Hyde Park;
treasurer, W alter F. Scott of Brandon;
secretary of state, Guy . Bailey of Es
sex Junction; auditor of accounts, Ben
jamin Gates of Montpelier; attorney gen
eral, Herbert G. Barber of Brattleboro.
The defeated candidates will be: (Dem
ocratic) For governor, William B. Mayo
of JorthfieId; for lieutenant governor,
Henry C. Brislin of Rutland; for treas
urer, Orlo E. Luce of Stowe; for secre
tary of state, Thomas B. Wright of Bur
lington; for auditor of accounts, Jere
miah C. Durick of Fair Haven; for at
torney general, Frederick L. Webster of
Swanton; (Prohibition) for governor,
Lester W. Hanson of Montpelier; for
lieutenant governor, George A. Kerr of
Brandon; for treasurer, Homer F. Com
ings of Berkshire; for secretary of state,
Arthur S. Gallup of Burlington; for audi
tor. W. C. Rodeliff of St. Johnsbury; for
attorney general. C. J. Ferguson of Bur
lington; (Socialist) for governor, Wil
liam R. Rowland of East Corinth; for
lieutenant governor, Antoine Winner of
Graniteville; for treasurer, John McMil
lan of Burlington; for secretary of state,
C. H. Reynolds of Barre; for auditor, E.
Cleveland of Morrisville; for attorney
general, no candidate.
J he polls will close on the national,
state, county and congressional balloting
at 5 o'clock and on the town representa
tive balloting at 3 o clock.
The Local Election.
Will Be Conferred at Sixth District Meet
ing in Barre Thursday.
The annual meeting of the sixth Ma
sonic district will be held in Barre on
Thursday evening with Granite lodge,
No. 35, F. and A. M., as the entertaining
odge. At 3 o'clock in the afternoon the
master Masons' lodge, will be opened in
orm bv Granite lodge with frank K.
Beard as worthy master. A half-hour
ater the lodge will be called from labor
to refreshment and then called to labor
on the Fellow Craft degree, the first sec-
ion being conferred bv Green Mountain
lodge of Cabot, Et T. Paquin as worthy
master. L. B. Jones of Island Pond,
grand lecturer, will review the work. At
7:30 o'slock the grand lodge officers will
be duly received by Granite lodge and
the second section of the Fellow Craft
degree will be conferred by AVmoosk
hJdge, Dr. H. H. Fullerton, worthy mas
ter. Lectures of the degree will be giv
en by members of Granite lodge and
there will be a review of the work by
the crand lecturer and addresses by
grand lodge officers. Afterward the Mas
ter Mason degree will be conferred and
closed in form by Granite lodge.
Supper will be served at the usual hour
bv the members of Ruth chapter, O. Jv
S. Among the grand lodge officers who
are to attend are: u. 11. Koss, grand
master; David A. Elliott, deputy grand
master; Edwin L. Wells, grand senior
warden; L. Burton Jones, grand lectur
er. Ihe following lodges comprise tne
district: DeWitt Clinton. No. 15, of
Northfield; Aurora. No. 22. of Montpe
Her; Granite, No. 35, of Barre; Winooski,
No. 40, of Waterbury; Green Mountain
No. 08, of Cabot; Mad River, No. 77, of
Waitsfield; and Wyoming, No. 80, of
North Montpelier.
AUTO SMASHED
INTO WAGON
Mr. and Mrs. Jor ;hepard
Somewhat Hur Ai Berlin
Street SaUr Nizht
s'
DRIVER AUTO WAS
PUT WDER ARREST
Victor Stacy Pleaded Not
Guilty When Arraigned
in City Court
HARRY V. BERT0LL
When Barre voters go to the polls at 6
o'clock to-morrow morning they will be
handed seven ballots for six distinct gov
ernmental divisions. There will be the
presidential elector ballot, the state tick
Well Known Yonng Man Died After Five
Weeks' Illness.
Harry Vincent Bertoli, one of the best
known younger members of the Italian
colony in Barre, passed away at the home
of his sister, Mrs. Eva Carusi, 16 Second
street, Sunday forenoon at 11 o clock.
Mr. Bertoli had been ill for five weeks.
He is survived by two sisters, Mrs. Ca
rusi, with whom he had resided for the
past 21 vears, and Eva, who lives in
Carrara, Italy, and three brothers, Agusto
Bertoli and Benjamin Bertoli of Barre
and John Bertoli of Quincy, Mass. His
parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Bertoli, live
in Carrara.
The deceased was born in Carrara Nov.
27, 1881, and would have been 35 years
old had he lived until Nov. 27. He cafne
to America in 1803 and to Barre, where
he immediately made his home with his
sister. Until the death of Eugene A. Ca
rusi, for many years a prominent Barre
granite manufacturer, in March, 1915, he
was an assistant to Mr. Oarusi. Since
that time he had been a valued employe
of .Jones Bros. to. Mr. Bertoli was a
voung man of unusual energy and was
held in high esteem by many acquaint
tanees.
The funeral will be held at the Carusi
home Tuesday afternoon at $ o'clock and
interment will be made in Hope ceme
tery.
Victor Stacy, a jitney driver operating
between Barre and Montpelier, ran afoul
of a team on Berlin street Saturday
night and was locked up on a charge of
driving his car while intoxicated. Mr.
and Mrs. John Shepard of east hill, a
three-year-old niece and their little neph
ew from Williamstown were in the car
riage and medical treatment for two
members of the party was necessary be
fore they returned home. In Magistrate
H. W. Scott's court this forenoon Stacy
pleaded not guilty to the charge and fur
nished bail in the sum of $200 for his ap
pearance at a hearing this afternoon.
Grand Juror William Wishart has charge
of the prosecution and J. Ward Carver is
the appearance for the respondent.
v itnesses seem to agree that Mr. Shep
ard was about to rein his horse over the
Berlin street bridge, going east, and that
Stacy had juet come up from the rear of
the carriage when the collision took place.
The accident occurred near the Rcampini
square intersection and according to Mr.
Shepard. his team was on the right side
of the street when Stacy's auto crashed
into the vehicle. The shock of the col
lision threw the horse to the ground and
the wagon, with the children on the seat,
was dragged some distance after the
horse regained its feet. Mrs. Shepard
was thrown into the highway, suffering
bruises about the hip and neck, while
Mr. Shepard landed on a pile of stone
chips and injured his spine. Man and
wife went to the office of Dr. J. A. Wark
after taking care of the children and the
horse. The carriage was nearly demolished.
Officer David Henderson happened to
be swinging along his north end brat at
0:30 o'clock when he heard the crash.
On arriving at Berlin street he placed
Stacy under arrest and ordered him to
drive to police headquarters. According
to the officers story, the jitney man
headed his car across the bridge and then
turned down the M. 4 W. R, railroad
tracks, which wasn't in the direction the
policeman had outlined. Between order
ing the driver to halt and keeping his
eyes on the track ahead, Officer Hender
son stuck to his task until the car
reached the brink of the river bank.
Then he jumped.
It appears that Stacy stopped the car
at the river's marge and when Officer
Henderson summoned another auto, the
man accompanied him to the police sta-
lon. Near midnight men from police
headquarters went to West Second street
and restored the car to the level of the
road. It was not badlv damaged.
Mr. Shepard is employed at Edward
Carleton's farm n east hill and Mr.
Carleton was notified of the accident soon
fter it happened. The horse was taken
o the veterinary hospital of Dr. W. S.
Page on South Main street for treat
ment.
ONE CAR TURNED OVER.
DEATH HASTENED BY FALL.
Autopsy on Little Boy Revealed Weak
ness of Heart.
An autopsy over the body of Americo
Generelli, the young son of Mr. and Mrs.
Donunico Generelli of 10 Ussola place,
who died suddenly Sunday forenoon, was
held in the Ferrv &. Noonan undertaking
establishment on Depot square this morn
ing. Drs. M. L. t handler and J. U.
Stewart conducted the post mortem ex
amination and decided that the child's
lemie was due to weakness of the
heart, accentuated by a fall. Health Offi
cer Stewart than gave permission to pro
ceed with plans for burial and the fu
neral will be held at the house luesday
ftcrnoon at 2 o'clock, with interment in
Hope cemetery.
Sunday forenoon the child was pisying
et. the U. S. senatorial ticket, the ballot lin the living room of the house with his
f ,.n,Aiuinl,t!v. in PAni,r.aa 41,.. rt , ' 1, ..a-..A tTl,n la.l u nilM
ty ticket, the city representative ballot
and a paper bearing the names of candi
dates for justice of the peace. Local vot
ers are urged to bear in mind that the
voting for city representative will close
at 3 o'clock. The two candidates for
city representative are Frank G. How-
and. Republican, and Rev. John B. Rear-
don. Democratic. As many of the voters
of Barre as possible are urged to go to
he polls in the forenoon or during the
noon hour.
Recently there has developed consider
mother's carpet sweeper. The lad would
give the machine a push with the handle
and then jump on the dust roller for a
When It Collided with Another Vehicle
One Man Had Three Ribs Broken.
Two Ford automobiles figured in a
smash-up on the Williamstown road
north of the Smith Stock farm Satur
day afternoon, and one man was injured
considerably. The cars were driven by
Stanley Marsh of the East Montpelier
road and Charles Paesera of Williams
town, the vehicle of the latter being li
censed in the name of R. Gomez of Mont
pelier. The Marsh car was dragging a
trailer.
The Btories as to the cause differ wide
ly. The vehicles came together at a bend
in the road, and the Gomes car turned
turtle and landed against the bank. The
occupants of that car were hurled out
and Passefa had three ribs fractured
when the steering-wheel pressed against
him. Marsh was the only occupant of
his and was not injured. His machine
was not damaged but the trailer was
reduced to kindling wood. The Gomez
machine had both axles bent, the glass
in the windshield and lights broken and
the wheels badly twisted.
MRS. EDWIN MOREY.
short ride. When he slipped and fell
to the floor, his father told him to leave
the sweeper alone. Whereupon the boy
toddled into an adjoining room. A few
moments later his parenis heard him fall
to the floor, but when they reached the
Died Sunday at the Home of Her Daugh
ter in Barre.
Mrs. Edwin G. Morev, widow of a Brit
ish army officer, passed away at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. Walter Goss,
jl!2 East street, Sunday morning. The
deceased was 00 years old and a native
of Kinsey, OnL She is survived by
eight children as follow: Mrs. Goss
of this city, with whom she had made
her home for the past year. Edwin G.
room he was on his feet but seemed to Morey and Bert . Morey of indsor,
eni-onnter iliniciiltv in breathing. Five Maude Morev ot tnoer. n.. -Mrs.
minutes later, and before a doctor could ; Fred Tremp
be summoned, he was dead. Dr. Chandler
of Wilder.
reported the case to the health officer
test that is to be decided to-morrow was
asked to register his choice for the presi
dency. Ballots had been blorkrri out be
fore hand and the straw -ote was sug
gested in a moment when the company
was studiously discussing something be
sides politic." Thirty-three ballots were
cart in all. Of this total Pres. Wilson
received 26 votes and four went to
ing acquaintances in Montpelier. 1 his 'Claries E. Hughes. Allan U Benson, the
is his first visit in 33 years. His father ' Socialist candidate, received two votes
waa one proprietor of the Union house, and there was one scattering ballot.
J he Itasement or city nan will be occu
pied with trade exhibits while the memo
rial room and other available space in
the building will be used for conferences
and like meetings.
hie of a brush over the Washington iand it was decided to have an autopsv
county election, the chief eontet center- The Generelli child was four vears and
ng on the election for state's attorney. 'two months old and lesves its parents
Opposition to the re-election of Fred E.
Gleason of Montpelier for state's attor
ney has developed in his own jarty, the
Republican, and there is said to be some
slight opposition to one or more candi
dates on the same ticket although not
enough to be appreciable.
The County Candidates.
The county candidates are: For state
senator. (Republican) Frank C. Bancroft
of Barre Town, Bertram! K. Demerit t of
luxbury and F. F. Steele of Montpelier. I
(Democrat) Timothy K. tallahan
and three brothers,
Lodivico.
Amelio. Mario and
The "Barre meeting" of Marquis de
Iilavette chapter, daughters of
American Revolution, was held at
Miss Evelyn
Morev of Hanover. V 11., H. . Morey
of Ssult St. Marie, (Int., and Douglas
W. .Morey of lkston. Tuenty-five years
aco Mrs. .Morev came to Wilder to re-
l.i.u lior hnsliand's death occurred two
years ago.
Praver services will be held at the
home "of Mrs. Goss Tuesday afternoon at
2 o'clock. Key. J. W. Barnett, pastor of
Congregational church, officiating,
funeral will take place in Wilder
rpuu..u,.t -.icIoaly lo-mgni. Mnnfn,j., Arthur W. Hewitt of Plain
hall : field nd Charles C. Robinson of Water-to-night
Senator Dillingham and John T. 1 burv. (Prohibition! Arthur AY. Hewitt of
Cushing of St. Albans will siicak at the pUinfield, Pearl B. Gavlord of W:it-hVld
Republican rally. The band will be out. and fctednian C. Wheeler of Waterbury, were -red.
resilience of Mis. A. A. Sargent of French
street Saturday afternoon when about ti't
ladies of Barre and Montpelier gathered
and passed a very delight in afternoon.
The entertainment consisted of a talk
by S. Holli-tor Ja-kon on "Colonist
f 1 Stage-Coaches ," a sketch of Martha
Washington by Miss Klia I-Lam of Bur
lington and two violin solos bv Mrs.
E. W. Bruce, w ith Mis Mildred ' Phelps
s acenmnani-t. I taint v r Irc-limcntH
the ; the
the ;Thf
Wednesday afternoon at 2 oclook and
the interment will be made in Hanover,
X. If.
GRANITEVILLE.
Regular meeting of branch Xo. 12, Q.
W. I. I", of X. A.. ill be held in Mile-
h II Wednesday evening, Nov. 8. at 7
n'chxk Xomination of international un
ion president and other business. All be
present. P. J. Fiunigan, secretary.
