OFFICIAL PAPER OF COLUMBIA COUisTY
PIONEER PAPER OF COLUMBIA COUNTY
IqLUMK
XXXV.
ST. IIKLHNS, OKKGON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1916
f p 1 1 i r v ii
yz ii ii r . i 1 1 n in ;
COLUMBIA COUNTY, OREGON, THE DOOR OF OPPORTUNITY
1-lH
Pi
shl I t
lllldl-r
Idi 1 1"1)'
Tli'"""
junto i""1'"
to I"'''1'
,'ucli ' "'" ;r,'"t P"n,lnU P'TUcs the world In mill fniiii t In- mark
rih In Hi" scverui iini mi urn in huh Kri'iu Mine cr Oregon
.....I ....I.. ..I.. I.... ...w.i. II I.... ..!.. I
Lialll I k ii i" " (ii i iim it-ni iiiirrn HiiiiiK I IH' I
f .... .. l..l I... I I.... .. ,. .
luisc llicir iHinim ii iiiiiim.I I iter, iHHIVe l CSC T I ltd I , II ri In
liiiidiiiiicntiii principles niii'ii sawmills mauufacturlm: mil
II t H (11 llllll'l'H lllll'llll- llOUH Of feel 1 1 r 1 1 111 hlT. Illlll III these
I li- voters or inn limn mills ulll In. seen hIi1ih froiii various
liU-ill 111 K ll"'11 l'ny HiliiMiiien n iiiiiih III Hill worm slowing llltli) nil
Li'lll will'1' '" "',,,n ""' decks and III till' IioIiIh IIiIh in. mil -
bent wrvit inn I pi" linn linemen proil net . Inr kIiIii il In
Lt Hi" I"111' prosperous, war rumen f.u ri -. Asia, Africa.
ikr uiitu Hi" groat political par- v umi rii i in n ml south American ports,
irtllnK fo rt ti III" f ll ll il ii III i-ll t ii I ii h veil ii h In imrlH along 1 1- Pacific
iliiclpl'1. " ;"',',nH ,u 1 ' llrl,l" ' ,,llu 1,1 .tiiaiiuc rniiKi in our own
thai ll"' "Hl Kl'1 forth 11 r,'w 1'hltod Stales.
ilnmi'iiliil Iirini "ipies suiting in" iiiii-K i nun ine river, at varlou,
niml liiTi'diri'H uf IIiIh Special distance i therefrom, you will ..oe
uslrlnl Kilnli'ii. inl Hi" rHiilt b groat timber-covered mountains from
flfil I" attained from IIiIh whence comes tin- volume of Mr hnn
lrlkl Inn. which in" in.iiiiiluetiircd into IuiiiIxt.
,Vi. Imlil Hi"' "i" 1 IIiih MIhI Itallioails run fniiii these timbered
li'inlliiK weekly newspaper of M-i'tliiiiH carrying millions of feet of
lluniliU riniiily; mill it contains in" nii"n nr iiiiiimt crown In iih-
h nrk u r'Hiiiii" of Hi" lnippt-ii- worlil Willi tin- in 1 1 1 h in tin foir
ffH 01 llll" 'OJ. f " n iNil.nn .. i
immunity umi Hi" oilier roiiiiinitil- otiu-r ati'l viirloiiH 1 1 in Inr ImliiHtrii'v.
not tlil'i liorllon of Hi" county; nurli uh Hi" kIi1iIiuIMiiii; .lnnt nl SI
Ll It Hllllllln II H Mil llllVIM IllH Ol Hll Hl'll'IIH, llIT", "wry l"V in ill 1 lis can
I i hi'Hl for Hi" coiiiiiiunlly In- In HfiMi n nil) K n-H t hull hIIiIIiik fniiii Iml"
-it umi Hi" pi'iipl" of Hi" cotiuly, Hi" wnys Into Hi" ilt'cp wiiIitk of Hi" toui l
tin mi act vii purl In till mutliTH roluinlilii rlvir TIh-k" hIiIih nr"
mnciTii to Hi" pi'iipl", ki'"iliiK In iiiuiiufucliiri-il out uf tlm tlinln'1
'( with Im iort n lit Ihhiii'ii mill urowii on our uiouiiUIiih umi iiihiiu-
Infur- fiictiiri'il into lunilicr hy Hi" iiiuuy
in II I h. A llttl" lurtliiT up Hi" river
Voil will nee creiiKOtlliK workx, where
the III ti ll ll fitct lireil tllnliiT Ih Ireati'il
In the creomilliiK oil w hone properties Hi" I'isclfic (
prenerve the llinher mill Klve 11 mill h w linls w hich
ol
linn- imnl in it ii iiii acreage
cull IV ;i I K, t., 11,;; ll,,.
IPI..-I.-HI"II1 IIKIMIT I.I - cost
1 1 V lilt, -tu;,lnn
Ait'.' a Hun' hi. i ' i .t limp-, anil
iiinhTl.ru: Ii ii:.,iiM .iiiiii; lioiii Hie
Mi-lie ami Inn. farms vjt, conilort
iihle homes aiol .nth: tanlial outhiiilil
iiiK:i located nliere I h t . i . was hnisli
anil 1 1 iiil i r I. ami can lie cleared in
tlih- region for Irom J;:r, t,, $ l no .r
in re. Ilii' cost of much i f thin land
LiimiiiK from tin to p,.r ncr,..
After ll in cleireil a ri'.iKona hie value
Is from Ifir.o to $:iui per acre, ac
io'iIiiik lo lor-.i l Km .
Many llioiiriainl acres of this loaned
oil land are to 1M. i;., in nluinliia
onnt, offeriiiK opiiort mill les to
liniiie. ccherN who have a iletcrinlna
tlou to uiak.' a hi.iue and own some
Millie time. Hut rellielllher, tliere
in ahout x, lino, Illlll, (Mm fi-et of Klanrt
i ii tilnhei' iu the county wliich will
I'irni'.li inalerial for man iil'ael urei!
Iniiilier lor a Kind many years, and
till ii is heiiin taken off al a rapid
rate
Tin- assessed valuation
in t he county is appn
,iMiu, which, wllh oilier valua
tions, makes a total assessment roll
of mole than 7 .1111 II t(l I) n .
In l!M0 Hie population of the;
county was lll.r.Kll, hut rellahle tMti-niat-s
made since that lime would
judical" approximately 1. 1,(1(10 peo
ple. AIimm .Mid miles of wukiiii
roads ate laid out and opened for
ravel In the county. foncernlns
roads ll may he well to say that more
shoe in the Interior, the little river
readmit,' the ocean in an adjoining
"ounty. The valley Is ahoul fifty
aiilor lone hy two or three miles
-vide, 11111I Is rouiilcd one of the par
den i puts of (irouoii. Originally il.
w:-H a di line forest, and only reached
lie ha.i the feed for a lew cows. They
will return him from $4 to p(,r
month In cash, and the difficulties of
"pouinu started" are over. Mo has
an income now, small indeed, hut it
will crow. He can add acres lo his
pasture and cows to his herd umi
of Hinder hy hours of hard travel through aim- get a meadow for hav while i,
iniately I0,- Mar forests covering tlm hills, the c.r two fattens 011 skim milk ami ,
sun scarcely ante to penetrate the little, mill feed, and a few
i. 0 in in iioiiiiiia. 1 lie vauey is now themselves and turn in
under cultivation and Is reached hy keep the account s.mare ni ti.o r,.
eery.
hens board
eggs to help
than a million dollars have heen ex-
eniiloyini.it is assured peniled on road construction during
lime Hie land Is heing the past, four years. Considerable
heavy grading has been done which
.Now let uh turn Irom the lands and lias cost
iinlUHI. Ii-H In I lie climate. Located hut
land, wlii-ri
dmliil'. the
cleared.
an easy road from Clatskanle, some
times called the gateway lo Nehulem.
Clatskanle Valley
This valley Is from one to several
miles In width and extends from the
town of Clatskanle up the river bear
ing It:-, name about 20 miles, where
it merges Into the Hunker Hill coun
'ry. The first settler entered the val-
Stock Raising
The farmer who will feed the hay
and grain he raises; who will sell
cream and surplus calves and fatten
hogs; who will keep a few good sheep
and steers to sell, and have a horse
now and then to turn into money,
will find labtr and expense saved.
along
river 1
the
intiiinn umi Imparting that
'lull to It h renders.
Uh lielleve that III this effort to
. to 011 r readers tlm best paper
! roll he ot ten nut W" are cn-
il tu tin- support of every ImimI-
mini, manufacturer, farmer and
Iranian in uur territory, ntnl we
that tiles" people nre responding
ill) wltli such support.
-Vii mlviinile 11 policy of holliltuK
imti'iul (if tearing down, either n
.mtinlty enterprise, uu Individual
(rmktiiK or a personal ambition.
In no rase do we, nor shall we
r, den 1 In personalities that will
Hie Columbia river, a great
f Hie north. Hie lines of latl-
cxtcmliiii; eastward lai they
1 the extreme north of Maine 011
Atlantic rons, yet here along
this great river Hie scene shows green
grass the year round and flowers in
til iissoin until th:- Christmas holi
ilas The secret Is hidden either in
the Japan current, which carries a
warm river lull miles wide through
great amount of money.
now that the grading is practic
ally completed It may he safe to
assert that with some aid from Hie
state and outside sources this great
highway down the Columbia river
will soon become a boulevard equal
In scenic beauty and usefulness to
the famous Columbia Highway along
the river eastward frr.ni Portland.
Hood macadam roads lead into all
sections of the county from the river,
and much work Is being done and
longer life. It is after this treat
ment lias been given millions of feet
of ties and piling that It Is loaded
onto them' ships for some foreign or
const wine port, the sash and door
factories located on the river hank
nt lUlnler all go to make up a ccne
depict lug Industrial prosperity and
progress,
From this Industrial center alone
can, or the southwest conteinplatKl by the court during the
blow from Hie far off next few years so that nil portions
These of the county will he connected up
great with roads passable the year round.
region 1 f perpetual warmth,
mil, southwest winds are Hi
K oil 1 11 111 upon tlm good liniii" of Uir banks of the Columbia the scene
uu-m f ti,,. county.
W hi'llcvn that Him IntereslH of
miinty rati best be subserved by
iiiii'r having at heart the In-
it of the entire community and
bt tltli such 11 feeling, an Indus-
will be transferred to other interest
ing objects. Along Hie river , are
some tide Juuds, a little level laud
higher up, then a Hue of hills facing
the river, back of these some low
rolling hills with brook and has,ins.
I nllt ion containing 11 trim statu- sloping hillside and rounded hilltops
htot the conditions of the county,
prosperity of tlm people, the
fay umi varli'd industries of the
Hie oiiortllllit ies for develop
it ami liomebiilldlng. should be
Italic! iiccasloiially, for the 11 1 u
I lii'tii-llt of all concerned.
It in a self evident fact that such
I'llitlnu 1-Ii 1 mi 1 1 1 contain only such
I'liii-iilH as an the t rill Ii mid such
tun lie hacked uu by the actual
'Milium dialing In Hie community;
I It hIiiiuIiI not be the aim of a
' in mull an edition to paint a
'ure tliai would disappoint or nils
Hi" liiiiiii'scekcr
inti'iitliiii or Htm
rKn upon nny present condition
' only in give Btich facts n w ill
f " I true conception of the possl-
"Im uf Hie community mid th"
"liilinii-iit already existing.
11 i" mi 1 desire lo do some good
all eailly traversed and very pictur
esque, wltli here and there some line
little valleys In the interior Is 011"
rather extensive valley, the Xeliulein.
hut the country as a whole Is made
tip of hill slopes and low riddel,
nireli too steep for cultivation and
providing from a I lions, 111. 1 poinls a
chin tiling latiilHCiipe. Nearly a score
cf small rivers mid creeks Iniersect
the county, all living sire III : of pure.
cle..r wale.- fed by unfailing springs
Tin" drainage Is almost perlecl. The
soil Is a d.ij Iohiii, somewhat mixed
with sand In places, soinellini'M light
that it in not IMI porous aim witu 11 u.iik ci.i sue
of tlm Mist to noil. It absorbs moisture well and
does not dry out lu summer. Insuring
perfect development of crops mid
bountiful harvesta. Along the
streams are rich deposits of alluvium
and everywhere there Is produced an
excellent iuallly of natural grasses
'lil paper; 10 exert such an under t tiltlvatloii heavy crops 01
lui-tnii Ui, wi'u r,.d,iuiiil to our grain, fruit und vegetables. It Is
t k'lve to the outside, world rli-h In plant food, centuries of forest
'"Me Information, and lo glvo to "tii being mixed wllh II.
Pr I1011111 la-ople a comprehensive Having pictured the scene of log-
Tl""C (if tin, IiiimIiii.hm licllvllv. Ill- L'llllf II IT I hose lands, there remains
'riul umi agricultural possibilities to he seen on them then the stumps
1 lilHlinic.nl and biographical mid undergrowth left there by the
""'"iik v. in bo of Interest to theni. loggers after the merchantable tlm-
'llh tlnse oblects In view mid her Is removed. The great forests
of this county furnish unmistakable
evidence of the quality of the noil.
Hi!
"-..jwfc-,,.. 1A i"ipiiniiiiiiiiiiii mil 1 il
!:: .. f"'-
cou MiiiA cnr.vi'Y coritT liorsE
ley in 1K53, attracted by the fertile 8 rarni "ponies a factory in which
iooking lands as seen from the Col- "" farm Prcducts are converted into
ninbia river, not far distant, and hutler a,ld mutton, into beef and
many fine farms have been curved nork' ilml ,ie "ot only always has
"tit cf the forest. As with the ad- KO,m!tlliB 1 turn off that the mar
joining Heaver valley, this land is kot wanls- n"t to turn off In the most
particularly Bdt pted' to dairying, P1"0"111"1" 'orm.
stockraislng, or truit raising. Many If a man ''S'"3 the bruch, his
thouFand acres of logged off lands flrst oar'8 work wl!1 he lightened if
can be obtained here, and for the lle wi" kefip a flock of Angora goats,
man of brain and brawn who wishes Fruit Growing;
to take advantage of the slogan. It is not an experiment. Not many
"Now is the time," and buy now commercial orchards are here, but
wlille the land is cheap, the greatest their day has come. It is now only
possibilities are open. Numerous a question of skill, of good care, of
iron and oil prospects invite Inspec- wine selection of varieticu and hill
lion bore. exposure, and while the farm is be-
( oliiiiibiii lllver Valley '"R cleared the orchard is growing.
On the western border of the coun- Presently will give you an inde
ly are found thousands of acres of P"ndent income. Prunes and apples
tide lands. These are being protect- 'lo oxcellently 1'cre, and find ready
ed from the tide by dykes, and will Ba,e- Cherries return large profits,
constitute a rich dairy section. Gen- aml are of superior size and beauty,
erally the strip of land between the an1 almost the whole county is ndapt
river and the hills Is narrow, but In r(l t0 small fruits and walnuts,
places it widens out and forms a con- The Northern Spy here takes a fine
siderable acreage of good bottom. color and grows to good size, exceed
llenver Valley 'ng in quality many other localities,
Lies about one mile south of Itain- wlllle t'ie l'.aldwin, the Spltzenberg,
ier and, though not so large as some tlle Newtown Pippin, and the Winter
of the other valleys, extends to with- banana are favorites.
In a short distance of Clatskanle" and
is very fertile.
The Scaiioose Country
This begins with the southern
boundary line of the county, and em
braces both bottom and hill land.
It Is a dairy country, having much '"""d on over one thousand acres
land very productive of grass and ,,at k of St. Helens and Hainler, where
subject to an occasional overflow, the il syndicate is going to bore in the
swollen river backing the water up imniediate future to test the quantity
what is called the Willamette slough, "f irtm some splendid specimens
If you question the profitableness
of this Industry, look Into It and be
cf nvinced.
Mines
P.cth coal and Iron have been found
in this county, and options have been
really a flood channel and not at all
stagnant. Overflow does little dam
age and this is compensated for by
the increased fertility of the land.
Smivies Island
of which have been found.
TI10 Lumber Industry
We cannot find space for any but
the briefest reference to what is at
present the great industry of the
Thir. is a rich tract lying between county, and we call attention to it
the Willamette slough and the Col- ow only to indicate the opportunities
iiinbla river, a long, narrow strip of wl'icl' the settler may find here if
garden, producing vegetable growth 'nipcllcd to help out his living by
almost beyond belief. It Is well occu- 11 month's work now and then. An
pied by dairies, but. is wonderfully i'muetii-o area remains to be cut over,
adapted to market gardening, and es- 1111,1 "bile no industry of this kind
pecially to the cultivation of aspara- can ue permanent on the scale it is
pus. A great industry should grow prosecuted, yet here is timber enough
up here, convenient as it is to Port- 10 ko,'P tlie mills going for many
land, nnd with unexcelled facilities
for shipping. The island has many
fine homes.
Miner Valleys
years to come.
The timber is red, white and yel
low fir. and red and white cedar, and
hemlock. Maples and alders grow
County Judge
Commissioner
- K. C
Clerk A. I'
II. S. Ilatlan.
Judson Weed.
A. K. Harvey.
St a 11 wood.
Harnett
Uls'.rict Attorney- W. 11. Cooper.
flu ib-.
I" We ,1
'1 uf Ii
M'TH.
ie to accomplish these r
'licate this Industrial Kdi
" Mist to our family of
feature of the Pacific northwest, and
the rainy days that come with them
Itetnove the stumps and undergrowth means green meadows, pasture all
from these lands and there will be the year and never failing crops,
produced on them large crops of al- Them are 1: great many rainy days
most anything thai a farmer may but the rain comes gently, so that
wish to use or to turn off in the mar- there Is no washing ol the fields, no
rlr ll ilii-. o, i. ........ .... iictLrun or ..... 1. 1.. ..1. -..ii 1-.. rin. . i.ii.l 1. 11. t.ui ,.f liitnl nor verv seldom a
... luncriimn '.-r- Kl'l. 1 1 l IIIK.IU o. I . , ........ ...... i. v. -
Miiiiiv. clhiiu of Hid south, Hie during, which, with warmth and stopping of work by reason of the
101 tin- iiiidilltj west, the bountii- moisture, will prrduca vigorous rainfall. This Is a country which
I" 'ni'l in the north or the over- ........il. ,,,l i,l,iiml:mt erotis Not all has niitlv been described as where
. R( ....... .
'il"il section of the east, we ask ,,( u, stump land represents dense the Croat Kat her does the irrigating.
ll unhid with us for a few brief forest r v. A goodlv portion has been No artificial irrigation is necessary.
1 Idle we paint a word pic- cut over many years ago, or. was Now for some figures and statistics
l oliimbla county, Oregon, named over by forest fires, which concerning tills county of opportuni-
ou in its natural colors nrodncod a second growth of tlr lies. The area of Columbia county Ik
faithful and 11 11 tindergrow Hi of vine maple, titii square miles, or approxtmateij
"Nieat
J' or
lag tu
Ll .. ,. .
r minii exaggeration a
""Mentation of this land of won
frflll (MMInrlllliltli.u hr-i.u. vrmr ni-lll
Assessor C. W. Hlakesley.
Treasurer J. W. Hunt.
School Supt. J. W. Allen.
Surveyor L. J. Van Orshoven.
Coroner T. S. White,
liiiadmaster 11. E. Abry.
No community is more favorably
situated iu the matter of transporta
tion than i: Columbia county. With
nearly 70 miles of river front where
boats of all descriptions travel both
directions every hour of the day
carrying the products cf the farms,
gardens and dairy farms as well as
the manufactured prcducts to the
matkots nnd with the S. 1'. & S. rail
way traversing the entire county
along the river and numerous rail
toad:, running back to the interior,
the transportation facilities were the
vi ry best. Hut during the past few
ears allot her modi
The many streams In the county here to a diameter of two and a half
make each its own little tract of level und three feet, and the hnzel becomes
land, but on the smaller creeks the quite a sapling, reaching a height of
farm Innd is but a pocket in the hills, 15 to 25 feet. To those who know
very attractive, often quite hidden the hazel only as furnishing a switch
but with the advantage of living wa- for the old-time school teacher this
lers, plenty of timber close by, and w ill serve as a hint of the prodigality
get d soil. Nearly every hill farm of life in theso forests. Trees six to
will include a brook and a hi: of twelve feet In diameter are not a nov
meadnw land, though for that nintier elty.
meadows can here be made almost Kinis
anywhere. "All flesh Is grass" the Having gone over and through the
old text says, and all land here s details of the picture of Columbia
grass land, an Invitation at once, and
:. promise.
Dairying
Largely hill land, It Is yet
have said, a land of grass.
county, we will ask you to look at
the finished product. We have a
picture of a county rich in nature's
8 we bounties, where the grass grows
Hoot green the venr round Wliero Hvor
hazel, wild cherry, alder, dog wood, 422, (Mill acres, of which about lti.tlliu
' . ,. . ...1 .. .1,1. .(.1.. 1 ....1 .....I iiii: mm
etc. During the lull anil winter iui acres are iinaon- i.m.. n...
Uli hi fit ra t Iwi 1 kohIii A In vit r 1 . ..1 t 1 1 .1 it flu if I lut ni vt n nt ma nan .tillable This acreage of
w 11 .'if i.ivi. in 11 11 is siliniii-11 nun m.i. ... r
natlier tlm members of your nm, ,1,111 it Is fired. The ground thus noti-tlllable land includes lands now
""'y about you Hlld go with us c,mreil can Immediately be sown to covered with timber, much of which
r""Kli the details of tills magnlll- crass or clover, making excellent pas- can be made tillable and also all
"l Wet urn. We see a mighty river 1,, ml huv land. Among the large logged olt lands which are not suit-
f,w,,'K gently along the eastern and stumps grass and clover Is also sown, able lor and In no condk'011 for cultl
'rl'"ni border of the county for a ii.nrebv making sulTlclent crops wllh vation. After the timber is removed
'"nee of nourlv 70 miles. On this .i,t..i, i feed nil necessary stock for there will he many thousand acres
''"' rlv,,r can lie seen nt all hours n. living. At the convenience then now classed as non-tillable which will
(lay and night vessels of all f the owner the stumps ran be II red become very productive land and will
cropr are easily produced, but grass raii nmj auto transportation places
grows spontaneously, and good feed U8 lu cose touch with the best mar
ls rarely lacking. As an independent kets. Where there are thousands of
Industry, the dairy seeks the bottom acres nf bind nnlv nwr.titno- t,n .oir.u.
of getting to the i;mds of the river district, having in hand of 11 determined .,,,, for n,,tn"
maikets has opened up In the way ,, lhe rivi.r ,,, wllich ea U vn(j(m nml productiveness. Where
of auto trucks which new runs daily ,.v,ry ,!imIillK nllll tnKe oaril ,,,, of , ll()mes be
to and Hon, the southern portion of rrom oll- to score of milk cal)8 ma(,o ))y ()int of lm,us nm, 8t,ck.
the county in... the markets of Port- .r way lo Portland. Hut the dairy to-it-iveness. We have beautiful
land. So with the river, railroad and will always be a feature of farm work scenery, most favored climate and
11 u in inn-its nine g nun running and especially In a
through the settled portions of the grass grew;
1 ' ' , " 10PeiU wt ve said perato climate and everything that
with the best markets el the state elsewhere, that as soon as the farmer can be raised finds ready market at
.nm iiM-i...... has burned his slashings, and scat- top prices.
iii.iiiK i in .( (! 101 ins iiioiiiice. t,.r,., ,.,,, , UIK thH beginning of ity
11-iinu in mm') 1. imniiiic ueiii uiui win seep green become Independent and happy. A
Tin- chief valley is that of the Ne- all tho year, and, with tho addition of bind the citizens urn nrmut f
region where prosperous people. Wo produce any-
so luxuriantly as It does thing that can be raised in a tem-
A land where opportuu-
1s offered to tho homescekcr to
hPrlltlotis carrying tho products ol or blasted and it is a comparatively bo covored with coml.ortablo homes haleui, w hich lios like a great horse- a few slock beets or mangel wurtzels, COLUMUIA COUNTY, Oregou.
