First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. I and 2
Dosf The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. SEPTEMBER 15, 1916.
NUMBER 30
4 biril1rir
FREAK OF FATE MAKES
GINZA'S CAPTURE SURE
Slayer Of George Cooper Had Carefully Planned
Crime And Escape But Overlooked Important
Fact Expected To Commit Deed In Village At
' Night-Did Not Know Victim Had Gone To Home
stead To Spend Night With Wife And Children,
His. Confession States
John Ginza, the confessed murderer
of George p. Cooper of Hana, might
have escaped capture and punish
ment for his crime, if it had not been
for one of those inexplicnble incidents
which makes criminologists almost
superstitiouBly belve that fate takes
a hand in the apprehension of murder
ers, and gives rise to the old police
axiom, "murder will out."
The Japanese murder had careful
planned the hour and place for the
murder, and all the details of his ex
pected escape, but had to slightly
alter his plan through lack of know
ledge of an important fact. When the
plan had to be altered to
meet this unexpected contingency,
Ginza was not brainy enough to alter
his plan (n entirety.
Planned Murder at Night
Ginza had intended to kill Cooper at
his home in the village, as he did not
know that Cooper and his family had
moved up mauka to a homestead.
But a still stranger incident connect
ed with the murder is that on Tues
day evenings, the night Ginza p'anned
to kill, him, Cooper usually spent the
night at his former homeyn the vil
lage, instead of going to 'the wme
stead. On the Tuesday night bovre
the murder Cooper went home
several of his children had intende
leaving for Honolulu the following
morning to enter school after spend
ing the vacation in Hana. Only his
desire to spend the last night of the
vacation with his children saved his
life for twelve hours longer and caus
ed the altering of the murder's p'an,
and, the Maui officers believe, the
capture, of Ginza.
Hides in Daylight
The original plan of Ginza appeares
to have left but few loop holes which
could have led to his arrest after the
crime. He stole a horse from another
Japanese at Haiku on Monday night
and rode all that night, arriving at a
deserted building in Nahiku before
daylight the following morning. Here
Ginza remained careful hidden
throughout the day until dark From
there at dusk he rode to the outskirts
of Lahaina and left his horse. He
then went to the village home of
the Coopers, and after discovering that
his intended victim was not at home,
he lay stealthily iu wait for several
hours, expecting Cooper to return at
any moment from the office, where he
thought the bookkeeper had been de
tained by additional work.
By midnight, he became convinced
that Cooper would not return that
night and he went to a nearby stable
and slept until 4:30 o'clock In the
morning. After arising he made his
first error and was seen for the first
time in the Hana district. He went
to a Chinese coffee shop where he
drapk a, cup of coffee, during which
he asked the proprieter tf Cooper had
come down yet. Also he inquired
which road Cooper would come by.
The Chinese explained that Cooper
would be down before 6 o'clock and
the road which he usually travelled.
Ginza Delayed on Way
Ginza left the coffee shop and start
ed in the direction of the Cooper
home. He got off the road and meet
lng one of the plantation workmen a
gain Inquired the way to the Cooper
home. He turned back -and coming to
the Intersection of two roads was a
gain puzzled as to the direction to
take. Again he met another work
man and asked to be directed.
By this time It was nearing 6 o'
clock and a few minutes further delay
would have prevented him from meet
lng Cooper, but as it was he proceeded
up the road leading to the Cooper
home and In a few hundred feet the
two met and the encounter began,
Ginza Tells Story of Fight
In Ginza's own story of the crime
he says that he and Cooper began to
quarrel. He started as though to ride
on. But as he passed Cooper he pul
led his revolver and fired, the bullet
inflicting a slight flesh wound under
the left arm lit. At the report of the
gun both horses jumped in opposite
directions and the men clinched in
each others arms fell to the ground,
Cooper was slightly stunned by the
full, and Ginza had little trouble break
ing loose from him. Aa Ginza rose to
his feet ho fired two more bullets in
to Cooper's back, as the wounded man
lay helpless on the ground.
After some difficulty he caught his
horse and made his way from the
cane field to the government road
where he began his excited attempt
to escape from the district. It was a
few minutes later that he was seen
by Serreno. Cooper's brother-in-laws
and later by a police officer.
Too Excited to Change Plan
No doubt unable to lucidly think
after his attack on Cooper, he started
for Keanae, as he ' had previously
planned, but the original plan had
bad been to escape at night
'nstead of in the daytime. The
officers say that if he had been suc
cessful in killing Cooper at the vil
lage home the night before, as intend
ed, he could have made his way back
to central Maul the same night and
never have been seen by anyone in
the district.or, if he had been, he could
have passed unidentified in the dark
ness. Once Ginza had reached this part of
the island again it would have been
almost impossible to have connected
him up with the murder. All of which
Ginza had counted upon, but that "In
explicable something" that almost in
variably causes the arrest and punish
ment of murderers he had not con
sidered. Even with three men in the district
from whom Ginza had inquired regard
ing Cooper, it took three days to ex
tract a confession from him, so stout
ly did he stick to the story that he
came to Hana on his way around the
island and turned back only because
his horse had become tired. Neither
of the three men of whom he had ask
ed questions concerning Cooper were
discovered for several days.
Ginza's answers to the questions of
the officers were apparently truthful
at the beginning of his investigation.
He stuck contlnuely to his story, and
when he did make conflicting state-
tnts, he was too wise to try and
cover an error with an open lie, but
would blame the mistake to lapse of
memory.
Makes His First Break
He was asked: "Did you see a hoale
that morning before you started for
Keanae?" He repl'ed, "No I did not
see any hoale." Did you see a loose
horse with a saddle on it near the
government road that morning?
Then he made his first mistake, after
a-grilling that had then been going on
for two days. He answered, "No I
did not see a white horse that morn
ing." White, or rather grey, was the
color of the horse which Cooper was
riding.
Up to this point County Attorney
Bevins had been firing the questions
at Ginza. At this break Sheriff Crow
ell, promptly asked: ''What do you
mean by saying you did not see any
white horse?" Ginza was very little
disconcerted by this question. He
replied with perfect confidence: "I
said white horse, because I know that
Cooper five years ago used to ride a
white horse. I supposed he still did.
Admitted Being Near Cooper's Body
To show his cleverness in answer
ing questions, the officers tell how Gin
za frankly said that he went along the
government road, only about 150 yards
from where Cooper s body was rouna.
They at first argued that if he was
trying to cover up a guilty act he
would have Hed and said that he was
no where near the place Cooper's
bodv was found. But he knew that he
had been seen by Serreno near the
place of the murder and so acted the
part or nonesiy.
It was not until after the officers
learned of Ginza inquiring the way to
Cooper's home that he began to break.
After he was confronted with this
evidence, which so exactly tallied with
other circumstantial evidence, he im
mediately showed signs of weakening.
This was late Thursday night and
by noon the next day he had agreed
to make a full confession. This he
did in the presence of witnesses and
then accompanied the officers to the
place where the killing took place,
where he explained the tragedy in
detail.
Makes Few Excuses
The confessed murderer makes few
excuses for his cold blooded crime
He says that years ago he and Cooper
quarrelled over money he thought was
due him. Since then, he says Cooper
has presecuted him by getting him
discharged from any Job he secured
in other parts of the Islands.
With the exception of signs of mania
on this subject he appears to be more
than an ordinary intelligent Oriental.
He was educated at the St. Louis Col
lege and there are a number of young
men in Wailuku who remembei him
as an incorrigible classmate.
One Time Altar Boy
Ten or twelve years ago, for the
saJi oi. his foster parents, Catholic
priests in Wailuku attempted to wean
him of apparent criminal tendencies
and for almost a year he professed to
be a Christian. During this period he
won the truht of the fathers and he
was made an altar boy in the Wailuku
Catholic church. It was the fathers
of Hana and Wailuku who furnished
the money which made it possible for
him to attend St. Louis College.
Ginza was arrulnged in the Wailuku
district court yesterday morning. He
I waved examination. It Is likely that
he will be indicted and tried at the
October term of court.
Skirts Do Not
Fool Sentryman
Militiaman On Patrol Disguised As
Woman Is Quickly Stopped During
Night Maneuvers By Enemy Outpost
Guard Has Novel Drill
For the past two months, the local
militia officers have been taking up
Instruction in map-drawing, sketching,
patrol and outpost duty, at the officers
school, in charge of Sergeant-Instructor
Wetzel.
Last Monday evening, a problem
was laid out by the instructor for the
officers and noncommissioned officers
and company K of Kahului under Capt.
Wm. Walsh. The officers and non
coms representing a battalion were
stationed in the Puunene Park
grounds which Capt. Wa'sh was to
locate and attack. '
Capt. Walsh, representing the eiv
emy, mr.rched company K up I'uune
ne Avenue and took station at the
school house. The problem for him
was to locate the position of the
battallion headquarters. He at once
gave tho proper orders and sent out
reconnoitering patrols in different
directions.
In one of these, Sergeant Smythe,
was dressed as a woman in order to
deceive the outposts, but was captur
ed and turned over to Capt Lufkin in
command of the support. Capt. Walsh
did all that could possibly be done to
get the necessary information but
found it impossible, to get through the
line of outposts. Capt. Lufkin had
been over the ground the day before
and was able to so station his outpost'
that it was Impossible for the enemy
to get through without being captured.
The main object of the maneuver
was to teach the officers patrol and
outpost duty. Capt. Walsh had 60
men and 3 officers. The other side
had about the same number of officers
and non corns.
Getting Ready For
New Makawao Roads
Tenders are being called for the
building of the new Makawao home
stead reads in an advertisement order
ed by the public works department.
The roads are to run through the
tract laid out on the slopes of Hale-
akala, just below Olinda. The last
legislature appropriated 115,000 for the
purpose of constructing these roads,
and the Makawao people had begun to
fear that the appropration would
lapse before It was used. Letters from
the land office state that nothing will
he done toward opening the lots to
homesteaders until the roads are
completed.
LOTS OF AMUSEMENTS
"Maui's First County Jair is not to be entirely educational, unless
ceaching one how to have a good time is to be consideredunderthat
head." So declares J. Garcia, head
Like an educational moving picture
provision made for the amusement
young children of Maui, and visitors
Some indication of the amusement feature of the county show
was given in a report made to the
There are to be band concerts, dances of all nations, addresses, para
des, autombiles and lanterns, and many other things besides numer
ous side shows which will be attracted here by the big Maui event.
Garcia thinks that maybe that
such portions that he will have to
ors to close off one of the streets
in which to place the overflow of
lhe program of the entertainment and amusement committee,
but only partially complete, is given
ENTERTAINMENT
Personeh
J. Garcia, Chairman
C. D. Lufkin, J. T. Fantom, Mrs. L. C. Jones, Miss M. Hoffman
C. D. Akimori, F. A. Lufkin, T. A. Dunn, li. M. Gesner, J. 11
K. Keola
R. A. Wadsworth, member ex-o(Ticio
Miss M. K. Hart, Secretary.
Thursday, November 30th, iyi6
9 A. M. Grand Military Parade
Ending at the Civic Centre at 10 A. M.
10 A. M. Opening Address
First Maui
Response on behalf
By Governor L. h. I'inkham.
Address: "The Spirit of Maui"
By W. F. Crockett of Maui.
(Program for
Remarks: "The Press of the Territory and the signi
ficance of a County rair.
By W. R. Farrington of Honolulu.
12 M. Grand Band Concert
Health Man
Closes School
Hamakuapoko Grammar In Unsanitary
Condition Declares Inspector Osm
ers Action Backed By Dr. Pratt
Trouble Laid To Cox- KalamaFeud
Board of Health Inspector Osmers
ordered the Hamakuapoko grammar
school closed on the opening day of
the term laRt Monday, because he de
clared it was not in a sanitary condi
tion. The school has been closed ever
since and will remain so for several
weeks unless the county authorities
take immediate steps to put it into a
condition satisfactory to the health ia
spector. Osmers claims that the county auth.
orlties have had fully three months to
make the necessary changes at the
school, but have neglected doing so.
Warning in reference to the unsanit
ary condition of the school was Issued
as far back as six months ago. He
claims that he has received orders
from Dr. Pratt head of the territorial
board of health, to take any action he
sees fit regarding the school.
"The school will not open with my
consent until it is placed in just as
sanitary condition as the High School,
tfhere mostly the children of the
wealty attend. But the county author
ties seemto be indefferent about the
condition of the grammar school
where most of the pupils are children
of poor people," Osmers says.
Continuing he explained that patent
toiets had been purchased for the
school six months ago and that the
building had been ready to have them
installed for three months. The fail
ure to install the toilets isattributed
to the feud between Engineer Cox
nd County Chairman Kalama.
Whatever the cause, several hun
dred children are being kept away
rom their classes and the teachers
are looking forward to the extra work
they will have to undergo to make up
Hie school work which is now being
missed, although the children are
known to not be voicing any objection
to the unexpected extension of their
vacation.
Besides the Hamakuapoko grammar
school, the board of hea'.th man says
that there are a number of teacher's
cottages in a pitiful condition. )
The territorial education depart
ment is in no wise responsible for the
upkeep repair and sanitation of the
schools. The fault if there is fault as
now seems evident, rests entirely upon
the county supervisors.
The convict in the Kula prison camp
who was isolated about three weeks
ago on suspicion of having sma.'1-pox
is reported to be practically well, and
will be released from quarantine short
ly. No other cases developed at the
camp and it is now the opinion of
some that the case was not small-pox
but an aggravated case of chicken-
pox. There are a number of cases of
the last named disease in Wailuku and
vicinity at the present time.
PLANNED FOR FAIR
of the fair's amusement committee.
exhibit for children there is to be
at the fair of the all the old and
of similar inclinations.
executive committee by Garcia
his division of the fair will grow to
secure permission from the supervis
leading to the base ball grounds
concessions. i '
below ;
AND AMUSEMENTS
By R. A. Wadsworth, General Chairman of the
County rair.
of the people of the Territory
this concert to be announced later.)
COASTWISE STEAMER
DESTROYED BY FIRE
Congress Burns At Sea But Wireless Brings Rescuers
Crew And Passengers Saved After Taking To
The Life Boats Army Polo Team Defeated By
Oahu General Evans
HONOLULU, September 15
Evans as its president. C. R. Forbes is named as vice-president and
prominent men as directors.
Oahu defeats the crack army
championship. Game isbest ever
team work exceptionally line, lhe
Army 3 3-4.
Merchants discuss transcontinental and trans-Pacihc freight rates
to Honolulu. Freight tariff from
retal trade board wants to have release.
Furlong, a pioneer race horse,
purchaser. The horse died at Kapiolani park from pneumonia.
SAN rRANCIbCO September 15 lhe steamer Congress is
destroyed by fire. The passengers
distress signals brings rescuers to
off Coos bay and left adrift. Passengers make mad rush for life boats,
but are stopped by ship's officers. When fire became too hot on deck,
boats were lowered and passengers sailed away on smoth sea. Meam
dredger Michie and steam schooner Tillamock gave assistance. Two
members of the crew are overcome
recover.
NEW YORK, September 14
Thousands of unionists threaten to
PARIS, September 15 Combles in peril from Entente, force.
French capture LeCries farm, and beat back attack of Germans
in effort to regain highway between
WASHINGTON. September
Will allow United States to send aid
LONDON, September 14 Wireless dispatch from Rome de
clares that smashing offenses with
by Teutons against Allies in Balkans. Conference of military leaders
of Central Powers being held at headquarters of, Kaiser and Balkans
mapped for Offensive campaign.
Austria 100,000 men.
ATHENS, September 14 Effort to persuade Alexander Zaimis,
Greek Premier, to remain in office
tionary strife and discord in Greece.
PETROGRAD, September 14 Rumanian army which is de
fending Dobrujaa from invaders repulsed Bulgars and Germans today
in a series 01 attacks.
NEW YORK, September 14
Danger of syphathetic movement
optimistic.
Extraordinary' rise on stock
in industrial motors and oil.
SAN ANTONE September 14
General Bell at El Paso says that Carranza troops fear attack by
General Villa and his men. Reported that troops of the Carranza
government have been rushed from the south to reinforce garrison.
HONOLULU, September 14
against work on Beretania street
A. L. Castro returns from mainland and tells of chance to get
meet of champions. Plans afoot to
here. ,
McBride plantation will pay one dollar a year, as in 1915.
Queen Liliuokalani may sign name with Aero club. She is said
to be interested in plans for the
Healani, Myrtle, Hilo and Honolulu boat clubs ready for Regat
ta day. The Hilo crew is showing up in fine shape.
The Japanese murder on Kauai is still hiding and defies police
force at Kalalau.
HONOLULU, September 13 Utilitiy board condemns Maui
electric company's methods. Members declare company disregards
service that is due the public.
(continued on page 5)
More Applicants
Join Chamber
Fifteen New Members Admitted To The
Buisiness Men's Organization
Most Of Them Young Men Who Have
Become Interested In Fair
Fifteen new members were admit
ted to the Maul Chamber of Commerce
on last Wednesday when a meeting; of
the board of trustees was held in Wai
luku at which the names of the ap
licants were presented.
The fifteen new members are in ad
dition to the twelve who were admit
ted at the supper meeting of the
chamber a week before.
Interest in the chamber and the in
crease in the membership is due in
some, part to the interest that Is been
aroused among the young men of the
island In the coming Maul County
Fair. Almost a'l those admitted Wed
nesday are on fair committees. While
engaged in the fair work they have
become acquainted with the older
members of the commerc'al body to
whom they have signified their wil
lingness to join the organization.
The new members admitted at the
trustees meeting are as follows: John
Little, E. Iirecht, H. McCubbin. M. K.
Otuka, Charles Paul Durney, W. S.
Katings, J. C. Blair, F. O. Krauss, J.
II. Trask, James Lindsay, Lorrin K.
Smith, V. C. Schoenberg, J. Patterson,
T. II. Cameron and P. II. Uoss.
Heads Aero Club
Hawaii Aero Club has General
team m the polo match and win
played on Kapiolani field. Oahu
Uahu score was 3 l-t and tne
Atlantic branded as unfair. The
has died. Harold B. Gifford recent
and crew were saved. Wireless
doomed vessel which is abandoned
by the fire, but are expected to
Four New York workers arrested.
strike unless railroads will settle.
Perrone and Dathune.
15 Turkey recedes regarding Syria.
to Armenians suffering there.
fresh army soon to be launched
Germany is to send ZUU.UUU men and
proved fruitless, emphasizing fac-
Car strike failing to stop traffic.
not yet over, but buisness men are
market. Gains from 1 to 3 points
General Funston reports that
McCandless says his protests
valid. He has nothing more to say. '
bring great staff of tennis players
organization.
Cameron Made
Fair Manager
Paia Man Instructed To Visit Hawaii
County Exhibit And Gain All Know
ledge Available Several New
Chairman Named
F. B. Cameron of Pala has been
named manager of the Maul County
Fair to succeed F. H. Locey, who had
resigned to go Oahu to accept a posi
tion. The resignation and the appoint,
ment were made at the recent meet
ing of the fair executive committe.
After Manager Cameron's appoint
ment had been acted upon, it was
decided to instruct him to attend the
Hawaii County Fair for the purpose
of acquiring all possible knowledge of
the methods used on the Dig l.-iand
to make a county fair a success.
The resignation of Angus McPhee
as chairman of manufactured products
was tendered and accepted. McPhee
explained that while hedid not have
the time to act as chairman of the
committee he hoped to be retained as
one of the committeeman. On his e
commenation J. P. Foster was named
ashead of the committee. Mr. Foster
was not present at the meting, but
accepted the appointment by tele
phone. Another change made was of the
chairman of the publicity committee.
Edwin C. Moore, who has been at the
head of the committee, tendered his
resignation and J. 11. McSwanson was
named to succeed him. .
