AT re observing th t e_ t ad- of bee boom is
vertisiag tress the evenkme to
the morning parsa
by their observation. That 4 e7ee
eS why you will An the 10A tte
news. an well a" latest Mo - Saae
.moring In The Harem. Ji
NO. 362P. WZTEk-co u WASHINGTON. D. C.. D~1AY. SEPTEMER 15, 1916. ONE CENT.
TEUTONS PLAN
BALKAN DRIVE
War Council Orcers 300,000
Troops to Near East Zone.
(my the laternatieal Newa Service.)
London, Sept. 14.-Three hundred thou
sand Teuton troops will be dispatched
at once from other theaters of war to
the Balkan front. Germany will fur
niah 30,000 Austria Hungary, 100,000 men.
This army, combined with the Ger
mans, igars, and Turks now fighting,
is thearest approach to the dual aim
which the central powers and their al
lies regard as absolutely vital for the
contiuation of the war-the crushing of
Roumania and the repulsion of the al
lies from Macedonia--so as to safe
guard the communication between the
Teutonic empires and their eastern al
lies. the Orient Railway.
This, according to a wireless dispatch
from Rome, based ikp reliable authority
is the decision reached by the central
council of the central powers at the
Kaiser's headquarters in the East.
"Offensive in the Balkans; defensive
everywhere else," is the slogan created
by the recent developments In the Near
East as toe result of Roumania's inter
vention.
Evidences of a gradual shortening of
the German western front are accu
mulating. Indications that Verdun will
be abndoned is contained in today's
Paris war office statement that a whole
division has been sent from that front
to the. Somme, and far behind the
Picardy lines the Teutons are feverishly
constructing new defense systems.
Late tonight news came from Amster
dam that large numbers of German
troops stationed in Belgium are being
transferred to the eastern front, pre
sumably to relieve front-line units sent
from the Russian to the Balkan theater.
All passenger service on the German
railroad. has been held up for two days
to facilitate troop movements.
VICTORY CERTAIN FOR
ALLIES, AVERS BRIAND
French Premier Makes Long-Awaited
War Statement.
(By the laternatiemai News Se'vice.)
Paris. Sept. 14.-Complete victory of
the allies and a subsequent lasting peace
was predicted amidst tumultuous cheers
by Premier Briand in his anxiously
awaited speech before Parilament to
day, reviewing the recent developments
In the great war.
The premier hailed the intervention of
Italy and Roumania as "contributing no
little to hastning victory. While ad
Met the Wlgarian invasm-of
11en1a 'tocreases the difficulties" of
that country, he expressed the certainty
that these will be overcome.
M. Briand's speech dealt at length
with the allies' occupation of Greek ter
ritory. The action of the Entente. he
said, was justified and necessary, not
only to safeguard the allied troops, but
also "to preserve Greece's independence,
menaced by the greed of our enemies."
The Saloniki armies, he asserted, are
"on the march to victory" and will shat
ter the centr l empires' eastern dream.
He emphasizvd the thorough consolida
tion of all allied efforts and their com
plete unity of feeling and action.
The premier. while declaring that
"victory can no longer escape us."
warned against excessive optimism. sav-.
Ing that the allin' onoonents are still
powerful and "'ill only succumb under
rereated blows."
BULLET VICTIM DIES;
CHARGE NOW MURDER
Slayer of 16-Year-Old Girl Awaits
Grand Jury Action.
Elsie Sacrey, the 16-year-old girl who
was shot at Seventh and D streets south
west. Tuesday night, died at Emergency
Hospital yesterday afternoon at 3:30
c'clock.
The bullet that caused the girl's wounds
was rot located. Dr. A. Magruder Mac
Donald said last night that the ball prob
ably was lodged some place in the
muscles of her back. The girl's intes
tines were punctured in twenty-one dif
ferent places.
The charge against Edward Grinder,
arrested after the shooting, who is being
held without bond, has been changed from
assault with intent to kill. to murder.
He will be brought before the coronor's
jury this morning at 11:30.
Young Grirder was brought into Police
Court yesterday, and a formal charge of
assault with intent to kill was placed
against him. He sticks to the story that
the discharge of the gun was an acc
dent, and that he had no intention of
shooting the girl.
BOY OF 8 DROWNED
IN ANACOSTIA RIVER
Wilson Saunders. 8-year-old son of Mrs.
Georgian A. Saunders, a widow, living
at 122 Pennsylvannia avenue southeast,
was drowned in the Anacostia River yes
terday afternoon. while fishing with sev
eral playmates from the sea-wall near
the Pennsylvania Railroad Bridge.
The boys were fishing near the mouth
of a sewer, where the water was thirty
feet deep. There was no one but the
boys around when young Saunders fell
in the water. His playmates ran for as
sistance, but before they got back he was
drowned. The accident happened at
about baif-past-three, and the Harbor
patrol recovered the boy about an hour
later.
The drowned boy has two brothers.
They are Walter -Saunders, who works
for the Washington Herald, and Paul
Saunders, of the Washington Po.
WOULD fE03E BREAD UE.
Use of Master Dakers Urges Fed.
erat Iavesttgatie.
Ussnphis, Ten., Sept. 14-A formal re
qaest that the Federal Trade Commie.sin
"aeM an inquiry Into the proposed rise
in th, price of breed we ase* today by
Samuel F. McDonald. president of the
Maste Dakers of America.
McDonald sent a telegram to the Cemn
mission at Washingthn ' aikids that it
beMd an inat T**" and . msd to ap
sea, ag eMae massat the en
Telegraph Tips
New York. Sept. li-Four German sail
ors from the German ste-mabip Bel
grsno, tied up in the harbor at Corunlafl
Spain, arfived here as stowaways on the
Spenish steamship Antonio Lopes, frot
Barcelona. The men carried a letter to
German consul general here and said
they had come in hopes of getting work
Troy, Kan., Sept. 14.-About ten years
ago Isaac Clary swallowed a piece 01
wooden toothpick. Ever since that time
he has been bothered with a cough that
physicians were unable to relieve. Re
cently during a severe coughing spell he
coughed up a hard substance, which
proved to be a piece of toothpick.
Mobile, Ala.. Sept. 14.-Many strong
partridges have been loot in the StOrol
and rains, according to John C. Hensch
game and fish warden. He regnests farm
era and land owners not to issue game
permits next season. Mr. Hensch stated
Ithat only in this way can the partridges
have a chance to increase.
New York, Sep:- 14.-John Lubersky,
East Meadow, L. I.. 10D years old, had
his wife, 9O, arrested on a charge of
Plashing him with a knife. When Lu
bersky applied for a warrant he said
he and his wife had lived together in
peace for sixty years, but the spell was
broken.
Millville, N. J., Sept. 14.-While drill
ing for oil 600 feeet below the surface at
the huge derrick on the land of Lcwls
Steelman, four miles east of Millville,
a huge tooth believed to be that of a
prehistoric animal was brought to the
surface.
Buffalo. Sept. 14.-Sand Island, it was
announced here today, is to be dug grad
ually out of its home in the middle of
the Clarion River, near here, and moved
to town. The moving day will last 10
years. It Is such a fine grade of mold
ers' sand that very little of it is to be
wasted.
St. Paul, Sept. 14.-Thirty thousand
automobiles stolen in the United States
during the last year, have been unwit
tingly purchased by representatives of
the allies and shipped to the front, ac
cording to G. A. Smith, a local detective
here today.
Hagerstown. Md., Sept. 14.-Samuel W.
Brown, a colored chauffeur of Balti
more, driving an automobile which he
said belonged to the widow of "Joe"
Gans, the colored prize fighter, was ar
rested here yesterday for violating the
speed law and having irregular tags on
his car. Brown was fined 25 and costs
for speeding, but could find only $15 in
his clothing.
Blacksburg. Va., Sept. 14.-The board
of visitors of the Virginia Polytechnic
Institute here decided to bar all secret
organizations, and all that now exist
there will be abolished. Complaint had
been made by the students that secret
aocieties militated against the best in
terests of the school's standing in ath
letics.
,Sept. 14.-George D. (" Buch'
W := of the Chicago Amer
b team has flied a
P*MionIr bankruptcy in the Federa.l
Ci-t, seeking relief from creditors of
a billiard hall enterprise which he started
two years ago, on the south side, and
which recently closed. His liabilities were
scheduled at $1003.86, and his assets as
nothing.
New Haven, Ct., Sept. It-William H.
Taft, former President of the United
States, will enter upon his sixieth year
tomorrow, and a number of congratula
tions on that event are already being
received at his home in this city.
Birmingham, Ala.. Sept. 14.-Shortage
of freight cars in Southern cities for the
shipment of ores. fruits and cotton is
beginning to assume serious proportions,
according to reports frm many large
market centers. In the Birmingham dis
trict the shortage also is affecting the
movement of coal, pig iron and other pro
ducts.
New Orleans. IA., Sept. 14.-Runping
amuck after a quarrel with a street car
conductor about a transfer, Seymour
Clay, a negro. today shot and killed
Fortune Jaubert, a wealthy merchant,
and wounded four others, one an officer.
Posses are hunting the negro.
Detroit, Mich., Sept. 14.-Four men were
killed, several were seriously injured,
and more than one hundred had narrow
escapes from death early today when the
Working Men's Industrial Home burned.
The home was conducted by the Salva
tion army, and last night was filled with
down and outers.
New York. Sept. 14.-Thomas W. Carter
and S. Fritz Nave, wealthy hop brokers,
were held in $1,000 bail each for examina
tion in Jefferson Market Court today.
They are charged with assaulting a
detective last night after he had told
Carter that his chauffeur was violating
traffic rules.
Norristown, Pa., Sept. 14.-Lansdale, a
town of less than 3,000 people, reported
five new cases of infantile paralysis to
day. making a total of thirteen cases
within four days. There have been no
deaths yet.
Trenton, N. J.. Set. 14.-When Katie
Demico, of Bridgeton, an inmate of the
State Kome for Girls here, declared her
intention to commit suicide by throwing
herself from the window of a third-story
room, a fire engine company was called
and a life net was spread just as she
climbed over the ledge and hung by her
hands. Katie changed her mind and fire
men pulled her to safety.
Denver. Col-, Sept. 14.-Rev. John
McNeili announces him resignation as
pastor of the Central Presbyterian
Church of Denver, and announced he
will leave soon for London. where he
is to be connected with the Young
Mien's Christian work. He also ex
pected to preach to the troops in Flan
ders. he said.
Seattle. Wash.. Sept. 14.--A police
escort was necesaary to see Andrew
Furuseth, president of the Interna
tional Seamqn's Union, safely from the
Labor Temple here last night when
a meeting of the Central Labor Coun
cil broke up in disorder. Furumeth in
a speech sympathizing with the San
Francisco Longshoremens Union in
mettling a strike there againat the
wishes of longshoremen at North Pa
eine ports precipitated the disorder.
Boston, Sept. 14.--The Massachusetts
Legislature, meeting in spaeia measion,
voted to pay $10 a maonth each to
guardesmen on the border, validated the
acts of cities and towns in paying the
salaries of employes at the front end
in extending aid to their dependent,
and extended to voter, serving wti
the guurd the right to vet. for'Ped
Siaom ilsJ
GERMANS LAUNCH
SOMME ASSAULTS
Counter-Attack Foe Between
Peronne and Combles.
(By the .ter.ama New. Sreve..)
London, Sept. 14.-Twenty thousand
Verdun veterans-& full division-hurried
ly dispatched from the German crown
princes army to that of the Bavarian
heir-apparent, made their debut on the
Somme battlefield last night, and since
their arrival have launched a series of
violent counter blown against the Franco
British center between Peronne and
Combles.
Berlin announced officially this after
noon that "ground was gained at places,"
and that prisoners and booty were taken.
The Paris war office. on the other hand.
in announcing the participation of the
Verdun troops in the fighting northwest
of the hard-pressed German fortress base
Peronne, asserts that their attacks were
utterly fruitless.
The Franco-British noose around
Combles was further contracted in the
lourse of today's fighting. The French,
closing in on the town from the southeast,
captured the strategically important
Pries Farm.
The British pushing ahead from the
nortilwest, made further progress north
of Ginchy.
The German war office disputes this of
flcial British headquarters claim, assert
ing that attacks between Ginchy and
the Somme were repulsed.
The French stood the brunt of smash
ing Teuton counter-attacks between Pe
ronne and Combles.
ALLIES SMASH ENEMY'S
LINES IN MAIDONIA
Serbs Take Bulgar Trenches-Italians
Win in Violent Struggle.
tBy the Iaternatieaal News Service.)
London. Sept. 14.-On both wings of
the allied front in Macedonia further
progress against the Bulgarians is re
ported officially today.
The Serbs, on the left flank, west of
the Vardar, continued their advance, ac
cording to the Saloniki headquarters
statement, and captured at the point of
the bayonet some Bulgarian trenches be
tween Kovil and Vetrenik.
They also made considerable progress
northeast of Lake Ostrova. while north
west of the lake they took a height west
of the Dominating Hill, No. 1.500a
On the right the Italians were again
victorious in violent encounters th.e
Bulgarians. according to the Fren4
fIcial aceount, which is, however,
poted by the So"a war efSe,.
An unstietal dispatch late teeig"h
Rome says the Italians "after flieat
fighting, obtained all the objectives de
sired.'"
An undated Bulgarian official state
ment received here today says attempts
by the allies to advance at some points
were frustrated by the Bulgarian fire.
It describes the second encounter be
tween Bulgars and Italians as having re
sulted in a rout for the latter and the
capture by the Bulgars of an officer and
eighty-seven men.
ATTEMPT TO DISCREDIT
PANAMA CANAL SEEN
Officials here yesterday declared their
belief that a propaganda to undermine
the public faith in the Panama canal
was under way. Its real object, they
said, probably was to create sentiment
for the building of % new isthmian
canal over the Nicaragua route.
It was said agitators are taking ad
vantage of minor mishaps at the canal,
such as slides, which were foreseen
by the Panama canal's builders, and
were predicted for a few years after
the completion of the waterway.
The Panama canal, it was declared,
will be adequate for all purposes for
many years to come, and there in no
need. either from an economic or from
a military standpoint, of a new canal
over the Nicaraguan route.
FALL OF HALICZ NEAR
AS RUSSIANS CLOSE IN
(By the Internatieal News Service.)
London, Sept. 14.-Unofficial dis
patches from Petrograd today report
ing the capture by the Russians of
Halicz, the fortified "gate" to Lem
berg, sixty miles south of the Galician
capital, failed to be borne out by the
Russian war office statement, issued
late this afternoon, which character
ized the situation on Russia's western
front as "unchanged."
The Muscovites, however, are stead
ily closing in on the important town,
according to dispatches from the front.
and its fall is believed inevitable. The
Russians suffered a serious reverse on
the Halics front last week, which no
cessitated the bringing up of fresh
reserves.
TURKEY ALLOWS RELIEF
OF STARVING SYRIANS
The State Department was advised yes
terday that the Turkish government has
consented to permit the American Red
Cross, acting jointly with the Red Cres
cent, to administer relief to the starving
population of Syria.
President Wilson, in accordance with a
resolution of Congress, already has desig
nated October 21 and 22 as Armenian
Syrian relief days in the United State.
American Amnbaseador Elkus has just
arrived In Constantinople, and it is expect
ed he will report at an early date on
Turkey's attitude toward'other measures
for the rellef of the Armenians proposed
by this country.
HUGEES SPENDB QUIET DAY.
G. 0, P. Candidate Reeeivese V ist
ter's at SamammaeRm.
Bridgehampton, N. T., Sept. 14.-A
morning and an afterneen .motor ride
with Mrs. Hughes comprised the gas
piete activities of Charles 3. Hughes to
dey.
The remainder of his time was spent
resting in a h"'amc on the feet perch
of Tregnedden, scaming the newspepere,
and conversing quietly with Mrs. RHuissa
over the vents of the transonetmental
tour.
The anidta maw no via.s. =^
Famn Vetian Church
Strck by Ememy Bombs
(my Iaternatiemal News Servies.)
Rome, Sept. --Austrian sea
planes bombarded Venice last
night. hitting Bt, Paul and St. John's
Church, and an asylum for desti
tute men. The eaplane. also
bambarded Chioggla, causing small
fires.
Fine Arts Director Ricci stated
that a bomb hit the rMof of St. Paul
and St. John's Church of Venice
almost in the middle of the cen
tral nave, then followed a diagonal
course, and exploded near the wall
of the lateral nave, making a hole
three feet in diameter.
Only two frescoes were slightly
damaged. Every window pane was
shattered. The Vivarini colored
pane is safe. It had been removed.
CAPITAL BACKED
FOR PLANT SITEI
Cities not Seeking Armor Fac
tory Favor Washington.
Cities which make no claim for the new
$11,000.00 government armor plant will
support the contention of the local com- I
mittee that Washington is the ideal site
for the new industry, according to offi
cials of the Chamber of Commerce last
night.
Members have been active for the past
two days urging support of the cam
paign to bring to the capital the new
government factory, which will employ
from 12,000 to 14.000 operatives. The ma
jority of the outaides cities have replied
that they endorse the movement to have
the armor plate plant in close d5roximity
to the seat of Congress and the home of
navy executives.
Navy officials concluded their hearings
on the claims of various localities for the
location of the plant yesterday, and of
the 120 cities seeking the Industry, none
presented stronger arguments than.
Washington.
President P. T. Morgan of the Wash
ton Ch ber of Commerce had an op
CONTINUD ON PAGE TWO.
, IE LINER
I t
"NEARUON
(By the laternational News Service)
Bestem. Sept. 14.-A German
merchant .abamarue was spoke,
today 300 mailes e Nantchet.
according to a reprt resehing s
here.
The Identity of the andersee
craft was at disclosed. It is be- r
lieved here she is the Bremen, the I
Amerika. Or pssibly the Deutsch- t
land. on a return trip to the t
Uilted States.
A pier already has bee s prepared t
at New Lesdea for the vesseL.
MEXICO MUST REFORM
OR TROOPS WILL STAY
American Force Not to Withdraw Until
Regeneration Comes.
P
(Byh I ternatimoal News servie.)
Hotel Griswold. New Haven, Conn.. N
lept. 1.-Evidence accumulated today '
that American troop will not be with- P
irawn from Mexico until the Carranza
government effects its promised political.
iocial and industrial reforms.
A the same time the American and I
Ntexican Joint commissions has been dis
,ussing Carranza's program for Mexico's
regeneration. the American delegates
lave been holding a separate meeting to
Dbtain all possible detail from the War
Department concerning the military sit
uation. both inside of Mexico and on the
order. To put these facts in still rfore
roncrete form the American commission
era sent for Gen. Tasker H. Bliss.
All this afternoon Commissioners Lane.
3ray and Mott were in conference with
3en. Bliss aboard the navy yacht Sylph
lear the Hotel Griswold landing. They d
liscussed a dozen or more ways of pro- t
tecting the border against future Mexa- L
!an raids. Among these schemes are the
following: V
A neutral zone along the international
border 50 to 100 miles.wide. Within this
"denationalized" region Americans or
Mexicans may be free to pursue and cap
ture the law-breakers of either country. i
Buch a plan was first formulated under ,
3en. Grant. b
A chain of block houses reaching along b
the whole frontier, guarded by United 0
States troops. all of whom may be called t
nto action immediately in an emergency.
A system of alternate Mexican and
American garrisons, with no troops at
ill quartered around such towns as El
Paso or Juarez.
AMMONIA TANK BLAST <
KILLS 6, INJURES 31
(By the Iaternatiemal News Service.)
Newark, N. J., Sept. 14-Six persons
were killed here this afternoon during a t
test of an ammonia tank just installed in
the new' plant of the laesta Milk and
Dream Company.
The dead are: Samuel R. Botkin, presi
tent of the company, Newark; Louis
Kankowits, son-in-law of Botkin, New
irk; J1. M. Ballou, of Richmond Kill, Long
Esland; Louis Ellers, Newark; Hahry
Luts, employed by the Frick Mil and a
Machine Company, of Wayneobeoo Pa.;
Charles A. Cain, of New York.
Three men were injured.
FEW CHICAGO worEn VOTE. b
oneerftor Whieb They Mit Cast
Danlets Lisaited.C
Ohieago, Sept. 14--Lees than 14 per cent
of the registered women voters in Chi- E
ae belloted in the primary yesterday,
aseeording to returns today. The smasll
v.te wus attributed to the ecarcity of
s~enm which they might vote. z
The. were apMt~utey 22b vote. 1
tin mWeer bMb mpSa
eee -.; e
EIlKMEN SEEK
TO SPARE USER
Economies Urged to Offei
Higher Production Price.
That the rates they are receiving fol
nilk must be raied about one cent a
guart was the consensus of opinior
mong those who attended the meet.
ng of $he Maryland and Virginia Mili
roducers' Association Committee yes.
:erdaf afternoon in the Munsey Build
ng.
This does not necessarily mean a
aise .in the prices now being paid b)
he consumer, as the members of the
ommittee and experts of the Depart
nent of Agriculture believe that some
rhere along the line of production and
silvery of milk certain overhead
harges maybe reduced to such an ex
ent as to guarantee the required ad
itional revenue without taxing tnq
reperal public.
It was to attain this end that the
neeting was called. The committes
scently appointed by the producers
f Maryland and Virginia have re
nested the Agriculture Departinent tc
urnish data gathered from all parts
f the country on the cost of produc
ion and distribution of the product
'he Department has also been asked
o gather as complete statistics as pos
ible concerning local conditions.
About 1,600 producers were repre
ented at the meeting and all the
CONTINUED ON PAGE TWO.
:AR PEACE TOMORROW,
OR 75,000 WALK OUT
lew York Leader Threatens Sympa
thetic Strike-Plans Ready.
By the Internatieel News service.)
New York. Sept. 14.-Urless the oar
trike is settled by Saturday, every one
f the 7,000 trades unionists in New York
onnected in any way with transporta
Ion facilities will walk out. They will
e ordered to quit work on Monday.
This threat was made today by J. P.
lolland, president of the State Federa
Ion of Labor, in an address he delivered
i Union Square.
He put the esttlement of the strike
juarely up to Mayor Mitchel and Oscati
Straus. chairman of the Public Serv
re Commission.
William B. Fitzgerald. general or
aniser of the Amalgamated Association.
ade a similar threat in a statement is
ised today. He said:
"OWe "ve no fear as to the result of
go Th are 400.0110 ,and
Foimen enrolled in labor o teions
i this city ready to assist us at the right
kdment. and they will quit every shop
iey are employed in if it is necessary
> maintain the principle for which we are
ghting."
At the Union Square meeting Holland
tid:
"The workers of the building trades
nions, plumbers. and many others are
ady to go on a sympathetic strike. The
atch is ready. If nothing has been done
y Saturday. a strike that will astonish
ie city will be called. We have been
aiting only to give Mayor Mitchel and
ie Public Service Commission a chance."
OLONEL URGES MOOSE
TO DEFEAT SEABURY
By the Internatiemal News Servies.)
New York. Sept. 14.-Co!. Roosevelt is.
ied a bugle call to Bull Moosers today
I defeat Samuel Seabury for the guber
ational nomination at next Tuesdays
rimaries.
Chairman George W. Perkine. of the
rogressive National Executive Commit
e. called upon the 47,000 enrolled Bull
[oosers to nominate Governor Whitman.
hrough John W. McGrath. the Colonel
romulgated this statement:
"Col. Roosevelt has expressely author
ed me to say that he is not supporting
ustice Seabury in the Progressive pri
ary. On the contrary. Mr. Roosevelt
as stated explicitly to the Progressives,
ho had asked him to support Justice
abury, that he would not do so because
r. Seabury is supporting Mr. Wilson."
'AFT ASSAILS WILSON;
CALLS POLICIES UNSAFE
By the Internatiomal News Service.)
New York, Sept. 14.-Former President
'illiam H. Taft bitterly assailed Prest
mt Wilson in a letter received from him
iday by the Hughes National College
eague.
"There are so many reasons why Mr.
'ilson should not be continued at the
'ad of the administration." Taft writes.
that some important ones are apt to be
irgotten.
"It is of the highest importance that in
ie very critical issues that are to be met
connection with the ending of the war.
e should have a consistent and intelligi
e policy, of a constructive and courage
is nature, and this cannot be predicted
' a continued Democratic administra
Dn."
1ILLA NOW ADVANCING
ON VILLA AHUMADA
By the Internatioeal News Service.)
El Paso. Texas. Sept. 14.-Pancho Villa
rid his 400 followers are advancing on
illa Ahumada. 120 miles suth of
2ares on the Mexican Central Railway,
ccording to persistent reports here.
It is said that he has overcome a de
cehment of the do facto troops which
a~d been sent to ipeet him by Gen.
revino, commander of the Car-ransista
'oops in the state of Chihuahua.
More than I00 infantry, with four can
Sn. were sent south from Juiares today
SVilla Ahumnada on ,instructions from
en. Trevino. who fears that Villa will
ttack Ahumadan and cut the railroad
lore.
Rat Floss Cause of ?lague.
NIew York. Sept. 14.-A slight increase in
5th deaths and new cases of infantile
iralysis was suported today by the de
artsmt of health. New oases numbered
tirty-six and deaths. eleeg.. Realth
inmtoeaner Emerson tody aid Ses
uried by rats, are suspe~ted of trans
itting the scourge.
Guu'aay's Iron Output hncreagas.
Berin (via Sayville). Selt. 1.-The Ger
'en output of pig ira fgr August was
14.0 tos,. sg b .3Mt i toh Juiy,
r MSS tons pW We .A
ILft NOSM N U W1TASK
M..yland Couple Try to D..d. i.
fentil Piiaralysi. l amfae.
Cha-bersburg. Pa.. Sept. 14.-tate
Guard William Iser. of the Pannsylva
nia force, while on duty at Shady
Grove. heard a faint wall of a baby
on Sunday. an though in the trolley
Car about, to start for Waynesboro. He
knew no infant had been taken aboard
and investigated.
A young couple from near Hagers
town oat together, and in front of them
was a large suit came, with the top not
quit. closed. Iser opened it up, andi
there lay a year-old baby, snug as a
bug in a rug. but hungry and fretfuL
The young couple had no certificate.
land tried to evade the guard in thisi
manner. They were sent back into
Maryland, with little Moses in the
suit case._
TO TUNNEL THE BOSFRORUS.
Engieers Call Projeet Feasible and
Finamcially Prettable.
Berlin. Sept. 13 (via London, Sept.
14).-A project for the construction of
a tunnel under the Bosphorus is being
discussed at Constantinople. Engineers
have worked out detailed plans show
ing that the project is feasible and
financially profitable, while its strat
egic importance is obvious.
Earlier projects for direct communf
cation between the European and Asi
atic shores of Turkey, inspired by the
construction of the Anatolian and
Bagdad railway, were devoted to the
subject of bridging the narrows at
Rumili Hissar.
SPARES LIFE FOR TOXATO.
Small Boy Holds Up Other Small
Boy with Pistol.
Trenton. Sept 14.-Eight-year-old Jo
seph Undiska held a revolver to the head
of Frank Miller, the same age, today, and
said he was going to shoot.
Frankie had a nice ripe tomato in his
hand and he said: "If you don't shoot
me I will give you this tomato."
"All right." said Joseph and he did not
pull the trigger.
The case was heard in court today, but
Judge Geraghty allowed the boys to go
because of their ages.
BOY DROWNS IN RAIN gARRET
IStefan Laulegan's Cartoeity Costs
Him His Life.
New York. Sept 14.--8tefan Lanie
gan, 5 years old, of Winfield, Queens.
was missed from the house yesterday
land his mother and sister began look-:
ing for him.
After two hours' search, in which
the neighbors helped. some one
thought of the rain barrel. There Ste
Ifan was found, his feet protruding
from the top. He had stood upon a
box to peer in and had lost his bal
ance.
SAL OF ART C00 N .
PIsree Chamber Denseness ifan t.
set, Masterpieces to U. a.
Paris. Sept."
posael to ship t-. . . k xtfibourg
I paintings to the vnited States to restore I
France's trade balance caused a tumult I
in the chamber of deputies this afternoon.
Hotly protesting against the plan. Jules
Delehaye denounced the idea from the
Tribune. The chamber drowned his pro
test with a noisy demonstration. The
president had to call the house to order.
No action was taken to further the pro
posa.
PICS TIP $1; LOSE $29.
Man's Pecket I. Picked While He
stoops for Bill.
St. Louis, Sept 14-"Pardon me. but
did you drop that bill' queried al'
stranger to Michael O'Hara. as he point- i
ed to a 13 bill on the floor of a cafe at
Third street and Washington avenue.
O'Hara stooped over to pick up the bill.
at the same time thanking the stranger.
A few seconds later he discovered that
while stooping over he had been robbed!
of a purse and 329 from his hip pocket.
The stranger had disappeared.
VILLA PLANS NATIONAL FETF
Pniaton Believes Bandit Is Prepar
lag Big Celebration.
San Antonio. Tex.. Sept 14.-(Gen. Flun
ston made the positive declaration today
that F'rancisco Villa had beer definitely
located at Guerrero. state of Chihuahua,
about eeventy-nve miles northwest of
Chihuahua City.
He said that from the information he
had received he judged that Villa was ap
parently planning a celebration at Guer
rero on September 16, Mexico's fete day.
M EXIANS KI. XILITIAEN.
Two Montana Guardmen Reported I
Shot by Bandits.
Douglas. Ariz.. Sept. 14.-A report reach
ed military oileials here this afternoon t
that Sergts. Rogers and Mackey. of the r
Second Montana Infantry. had been shot',
and killed by Mexicans in a pass between I
Elgua Priests and Cananea. I
The soldiers were in the company of I
several Mexicans from Douglas and were
alleged to have been attempting to desert.!;
STEAMR BUENS; 400 SAVE. r
Paiele Coast Vessel Deotroyed at I
Sea-Passeagers Reseed.
San Francisco. Cal., Sept. 14.-The Pa
cific Steamship Company's coastwise
steamer Congress. bound from this port I
for Seattle. was burned practically to the
water's edge outside Coos Bay. Oregon t
coast, by flames which attacked It at -e
today.
More than es persons were en board.
incl dig 2B passengers. All are believed~
to hvo been saved by the prompt ation I4
of tecrew of the liner and of the gev
ernent dredge Col. P. 6. MichIe.
BEW WAR LOAN FOE FINE
Chamber of Despetieo Passee Bill es
----e eS,4..@,....
Pari.s. Sept. 1I.-The 4Ifl autheritig
te new French 1aer loan of 32.4msm I
was passed by the chamnber of depuee
this afternoon anmi an eetburst af en
thusiasm.
The bill west through amea~ausly and
without discussion.
DeTad08 ii KuaftiEsm ElaBL
London. Se9g 14.-The hrmish ress
bureau announced thJs afternoos that Ove
persons wer'. krile and fiftemn injured
in an explosIon which took pine. in a
governmeut matless faclory.
MARSHALL RAPS
s. 0. P. POUCI
Vice President Answers Re
publican Attacks.
(<y the Ite..t...., news .e,.ts.
Indianapolis. Ind., Sept. 14.-Vine P
Sent Thomas R. Marshall was nottnd at
his home here tonight of his renomattig
by the committee appointed by the n
Dcratic national convention.
Mr. Marshall in his speech aco~
the nomination ridiculed the fears of
Republicans for the permanence of
perity after the war and a te
show that thee were entirely In
with a determination to sell m Amn=
Can goods abroad. He said.
"What must we do to ved? Tr
the Republican soothsay 0 answer tha
the entrails have disc that cont..ns
prudence dictates tariff duties. me
as to prevent th dumping of paupe
made, cripple-ma e and orphan-mas
roods upon our market to the detrinmisa
Df the American working man and that
while doing this we should go out ea&
pre-empt the markets of the world.
" How, if it be necessary to protect our
working men. we can capture agtinst
these pauper-cripple-orphan-made goods
the markets of the world where they may
freely enter, eludes the understanding of
every intelleat save those who blindly
worship the Baal of Protection.
-But the Lemocratic party is a grow.
ir.g progressive party. It waives Us
Lncient vicews as to a tariff commission,
now that the tariff has been loweet
and wealth has been made to bear its
;.ir proportion of the burdens of gov
!rnment, and it proposes to ascertain the
real purchasing difference between the
wage here and abroad, and to put that
2ifference Into the tariff schedule. if
CONTNt- ON PACGE TWO.
RELP NEEDED IN WEST,
DEMOJCRATS DECLARE
'Macedonian Call" Sent to Wilson
From Pacific Coast.
By the Internatieal News servtee.)
Asbury Park. N. J, Sept 14.-Presi
lent Wilson heard the echo of the
Hughes campaign in the West today
when he visited the executive offices
'sere for the first time. More than a
-core of letters were re elved from the
Pacific Cos*t States urging that the Na
jonal Committee be directed to asil
speakers through the territory traversed
Py the Repubeican camdente.
UahV t peeiN l the ds
mands for assistanoe. , Oregon was
optimistic and claimed the State for Wil
son admittin that Highee had gained
attacks on the adminis
orn ca-led loudly for
lelp.
The President, it is said. Is wIlling. if
not anxious, to fill as man, speasking
lates as his politi a; m..r.agers see fit
o request, but is prevented from making
mny definite plans on account of the
.ritical illness of his sister, Mrs Anne
E. Howe, at New London.
The trip to Albuquerque. New Mexico.
where 'be President was scheduled te
Iedicate the New Butte Dam on October
4. was completely abandoned at today's
onference. Mr. Wilson agreed. however.
o start on Monday night for St Louis.
where he is scheduled to rpeak to the
'iational Association of Underwriters on
teptember 3. provided ' there is no
lefinite change for the worse in the
ondition of his sister in the meantime.
te expects also to speak In Baltimore on
september 3.
$USINESS MEN FROWN
ON PEEK-A-BOO iOWNS
tewark Says "Nay! Nay!" to Powder
ed-Nosed Typists.
By the InteruatiSeel News serieej
Newark. N. J.. Sept 14 --Grave bust
teas men are organizing against co
uetry of costume during bus;ness
ours.
They say that powderd noses and
armined lips. fresh-air shoulders ar.d
ranslucent stockings may ibe promo
Ive of activity in the t-nancial d:styl:
If New York. but accord ill with the
ober prejudices of Newark Hence a
letermined effort to establish a cen- .
orship of flnerX. whIch is causing con
ternation among the gavly bedecked
irl stenographers of the town
The campaign for dress deco: 'm. as
he employers call it-pi udifh tyran
y" is the phrase used by the ' c.urg
romen affectrd-advanced an impor
ant step today w,;en Edw -d E.
thodes, vice president of the stutual
tenefit Life Insurance Company, ad
iinistered a fatherly admonition to
ome of the fair ringleaders of the
eek-e-boo brigade whom he I ' sum
ioned to his office for that re .
"We have no objection to our y
romen employes making th e
ttractive as possible." Mr R
iarked to them. "but they rn.. Iu
rithin reason during business ltouru.
In confirming the Incident afti*
rards, he said:
While we do not attempt to dictate
o them, we do object to their coming
o the office in skirts almost to their
nees. their chests bared and their hair
ressed as if for s social function."
IENATEC010BrrEE
As soon after the election as members
i the Senate Special Lobby Committee
an reach Washington, a meeting will
'e cslled to Investigate the subject of
ereign influeee to preventing legisla
io by the la Congress Intamnd to
protect Americea interests.
It was stased yestiy that Beertry
Aammng' wiE be q.ind at length by
his *en..an= M tM purpose of din
'oM wht a the change et
psert on the past et the ad=mnltation
swarS wetab]a 15 mminimem+. to the
evense Vil tM Wee rehected in em
They will dem tmE Informatism that
L reot m be seede to the Sate
ihigh eaet the actica et the
lomferees was 3laemm by the deart
met thr-ough presee trea the Brts
~fIgamn m~e. a- thrensh the latsetmse
