CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 1#.
"From PretM to Home
Within the Hour**
Suorn N?t ClNlhtl??. Month of An* ant.
lilt, IMly AT?rt?e, 74*9*t Iu4?j. 55.713.
No. 29,442.
WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, ^SEPTEMBER 15, 1916-TWENTY PAGES.
ONE CENT.
TEUTONS GIVE WAY
BEFORE POWERFUL
BRITISHASSAULTS
Gen. Haig Wins More Than
i Mile of Ground Along a
Six-Mile Front.
BIG SUCCESS FOLLOWS
GAIN^NEAR THIEPVAL
latest Effort Extends From Bou
leaux Wood to Albert
Bapaume Road.
FRENCH ARE PUSHING AHEAD
Drive to South of Combles and Beach
Point as Far as
Vill<V?e of Ran
court. \
LONDON. September 15,
5:11 p.m.?The British in
their offensive .along the
Somme have broken the Ger
man third line of defense and
have taken the village of
Flers, two miles north of
Ginchy, according to reports
received by Reuter's Tele- |
gram Company today. Brit
ish forces also are reported
to have gained the outskirts
of Martinpuich, a mile and
a half east of Pozieres, the
reports add.
LOXDON, September 15.?The
British 'resumed the offensive to
day ? in a powerful attack north
of the Somme in northern France.
According to London, they have
driven back the German lines
from about a mile and a quarter
to nearly a mile and three-quar
ters at some places, in an assault
along a six-mile front. The line
of the attack extended from
Bouleaux wood, northwest of
Combles, to a point north of the
Albert-Bapaume road, which runs
through Pozieres.
As a preliminary to today's ex
tended offensive movement Ger.
Haig's forces last night attacked
and captured German trenches
along a front of more than hall
mile southeast of Thiepval.
French Also Becord Gain.
The combined assaults thus covered
virtually the entire Somme front of the
British. The night successes included
the capture of a strongly fortified Ger
man position known as the "Wander
1 \ Werk." Apparently today's attack had
not spent its force when the official
bulletin was issued, as it declared that j
the British were continuing to progress.
The French on their part drove into the
> south of Combles, which already was
near!;- hemmed in by the entente
forces, and report an advance as far as j
the village of Rancourt. On the Somme I
front the French have captured L?e !
Priez farm and enlarged other posi
tions close to Combles. according to
the official statement issued by the war
office tonight. There has been hard
fighting north and south of Bouch
avesnes.'
Heavy fighting also has taken place
on the Verdun front. Paris reporting
two German attacks Jhere, both of
which were repulsed.
British Official Report.
The British statement follows:
"Last night enemy trenches south- 1
east of Thiepval on a front of about \
1,000 vards. including the strongly de
fended locality known as the 'Wunder
Werk.' were captured by our troops.
" This morning we attacked the enemy
on a front extending from Boudeaux
wood to north of the Albert-Bapaume
road, a distance of about six miles.
Considerable successes already have
4 been obtained Our troops have ad
vanced some 2,000 to 3.000 yards at
various places, and the attack is pro
gressing satIsfactorily.
"A large number of prisoners has
been taken.
"In this attack we employed for the
first time a new type of heavy-armored
car. which proved of considerable
utility.
# Much aerial fighting has taken
place Four hostile machines were
brought down in flames and at leant
four others were driven down damaged.
<?ne hostile kite balloon was brought
down laft niKht and one this morning.
"Our aeroplanes co-operated with the
advance ?*f our infantry from a Ipw al
titude, firing on the enemy on the
ground.
"Bombs were successfully dropped on
three headquarters of the enemy. The
railway station at Bapaume was also
successfully bombed, much railway
stock being damaged and one train de
stroyed." >*
French Statement.
The French statement of today fol
lows: "
"North of the Somme: At the close of
yesterday evening ourMroops in an at
tack. carried out with dash, took by as
sault a group of German trenches south
of Rancourt and pushed forward par
ties to the edge of the village. In the
night the Germans renewed their at -
tack jn the region east of Clery. All
their efforts were defeated with san
guinary losses. Especially in an attack
made near the southern extremity of
Hill 7* the enemy sustained heavy
losses
"South of the Somme we easily re
pulsed a grenade attack northeast of
l fcerny-en-Santerre. .
L "Between the Otoe and the Aisne a
I surprise attack was delivered against
H the enemy ? trenches in the region of
?j^-Autrecbss, foabUa* us- to inflict losses
on the Germans and take some prison
ers.
Tribute to Gen. Nivelle.
A tribute unusual for an official
French communication is paid to Gen
Nivelle. the defender of Verdun, in :he
Journal Official today. Announcement
was made on Wednesday that Gen. Ni
velle had been decorated with the in
signia of grand officer of the Region of
Honor, and in this connection the fol
"r!"* citation is published:
?Robert Georges Nivelle. general of
diMsion, commanding an army, has for
tour months commanded the army that
resisted victoriously the attacks of the
enemy, renewed without cessation, and
has supported heroically the hardest
shown in this command
with the most brilliant qualities of
leadership an energy and force of
character which have powerfully in
fluenced the operations In progress over
the entire front.
After having checked the advance
"'.'y enemy toward his objective,
which had become a mora] stake of tHe
war. Gen. Nivelle resumed the offensive,
foot by foot, and by his attack's suc
ceeded in dominating the adversary on
the very ground chosen by the latter
tor a decisive effort."
Repulses for Allies Claimed.
BERLIN, September 15, via .London,
1 41 p.m.?The official account of fight
ing on the Franco-Belgian front of
today reports the repulse of allied at
tacks in the Somme region", where vio
lent fighting continues. The statement
follows.
army group of Prince Rup
precht?Artillery duels continue with
Irln s?mevv,0,ence between the Ancre
*?Jl An attempt by con
siderable British forces to capture by
an encircling movement our salient line
S?HJ- Thiepval met vwith failure.
West of Belloy and south of Soye
court partial attacks were repulsed.
' In successful aerial engagements Capt.
Boelke and Lieut. Wingens brought
ST!1 enem>' aeroplanes each. (The
official German statement of September
10 said Capt. Boelke had brought down
his twenty-second aeroplane).
Army group of German crown
prince subsequently to the actions re
ported on Wednesday parts of our
foremost lines west of the1 Souville
salient were lost. After bitter fighting,
^hich continued throughout the night
the enemy was ejected aj^ain. -In the
evening a strong French attack before
our Thiaumont-Fleury front ' broke
down completely." ?
iHOlClPES
HIGH ON THE COAST
; _
Believe They Have Excellent
Outlook in California and
i Washington. \
%t
BY N. 0. MESSENGEE.
. NEW YORK, September 15.?There is
wide divergence of opinion between the
democratic national management' and
the republican over the outlook In Cali
fornia and Washington resulting t from
the recent senatorial nominations In those
states by the republicans. The demo
crats claim that conditions favor demo
cratic success in the two coast states, and
| following a conference at President Wil
son's summer home yesterday will renew
efforts to carry them in November.
| The democratic view is that Hiram
I Johnson's nomination in California willi
split the republican party TT^re and en
! able the democratic candidate to walk in
I through the breach. Also, that the re
| nomination of Senator Poindexter in j
Washington indicates lack of interest in '
i the tariff, upon which the main republi- !
! n dependence is placed and forecasts '
I a Wilson victory over Hughes on personal
preference for President Wilson.
For their part, the republicans see in
| both nominations .benefit ^-the republi
can national ticket, for they have no
doubt thai both men will be elected and
that the same vote will go to Hughes.
It Just shows how politicians can see
the same situation from a different view.
I Point and draw opposite conclusions.
Johnson's Nomination Pleases.
I The republicans consider the nomina- j
| tion of Hiram Johnson a good thing j
I for the ticket. They feel that if he had
1 been defeated there would have been
; a continuance of the split in the party
j in California upon a wide scale. As it
I is. tney believe that the old guard oppo
| nents of Johnson when they march up
j to the polls on election day and face
! the alternative of voting for the man
| who received the republican and pro
gressive nominations, or an out-and-out
free-trade democrat, will chooose the
former. As to Johnson's regularity after
Itiughes is elected President they have
no doubt, he will have to iie regular,
they say, or be beyond the pale of every
thing which lie needs In his senatorial
business.
Johnson supported Hughes prior to
[ the primaries and will support him at
the polls. The republicans believe that
his presence on the ticket makes for a
tremendous republican vote, and that
California is as safely republican in
prospect as any other state where the
latent republican strength outnumbers
the democratic, especially as Johnson
will bring the progressives along with
him on the national ticket.
In the Poindexter case the republi
cans say that the contest between him
and Representative Humphrey was
largely a question of personality and
popularity. Humphrey, it is said by re
publicans familiar with Washington
politics, has never been, popular, al
though re-elected to the House, while
Poindexter has been popular and is a
good campaigner.
They expect Poindexter, in event of
Hughe?' election, to vote with the party
on the tariff and all other party ques
tions for obvious reasons. While he did
vote for the present tariff on final pas
sage, because it carried the income tax
and other acceptable features, he op
posed the tariff schedules in part and is
a protectionist, it is declared. Poin
dexter is also expected to bring the
progressives to the national ticket.
To Liven Up MidjHe West.
The view of the democratic national
committee as set forth in an official
statement is that the re-nomination of
Poindexter was a repudiation of Mr.
Hughes' position on the tariff and of ths
old guard element by the progressive
republicans of Washington.
William J. Bryan and Theodore Roose
velt are to take the stump, respectively,
for the democratic and republican
ticket*. Mr. Bryan is to begin Septem
ber 18 and speak until the end of the
campaign in the plains and mountain
states of the west. He will also come
east as far as Johnstown, Pa..'taking in
all the intervening states. Mr. Roose
velt's tour has not yet been planned.
Next week the democrats will turn
loose from western headquarters more
than one hundred speakers, who will
flood the middle west with campaign
addresses, paying particular attention
i? 'nd,ana, Michigan, Wisconsin and
JbcbWii* , Z
Calls Election of Delegates to
Assembly to Consider
Changes.
OBSTACLES TO REFORM
IN PRESENT LAW OF LAND
\ ?
I
Proceeding Along Plan of Guade
loupe?Says Enemies of Govern
ment Obstruct-Program.
MEXICO .CITY. September 15.?Gen.
Carz;anza issued last night a call for
the election of delegates to an assembly
to consider changes in the constitution.
His purposes are set forth in the pre
amble of the decree now made public
here.
The preamble refers to the platform
of the constitutionalists, as set forfti
in the plan of Guadeloupe acspted in
1913 before the downfall of Gen. Huerta
and elaborated at Vera Cruz in 1914,
and says it shows clearly that the pro
gram of the constitutionalists provided
that when their cause was triumphant
and municipal elections had taken place
the first chief i|hould call for the elec- !
tion of a congress, give an account of i
his administration and have his ac
tions ratified \r modified by the con
gress. He was then to call a presi
dential election and turn over the ex
ecutive power to the legally elected
president.
Obstacles to Reforms.
The first chief always intended to
carry out this program and, to that
end, adopted various measures to pro
vide government of and for the people,
to improve the economic situation of
the working classes and to insure a
correct application of republican prin
ciples as embodied in the constitution.
It has been found, however, that some
of these reforms affected the functions
of the government as limited by the
constitution.
These reforms were necess'ary, Gen.
Carranza points out, because there ex
isted the danger that if the functions
of government were limited strictly in
accordance with the constitution of
1857 the administration of public af
fairs. would not meet the necessities of
the time and there would be a return
to tyranny through the absorption of
powers by the executive. Another
source of danger was that the powers
Tested in the legislative branch of the
government would be a constant stum
bling-block in the way c?f beneficial ad
ministration.
f- - - Enemies Obstruct Program.
?.'The enemies of the" constitutional
ists;" ,Gen. CarrtLnza continues, "have
omitted nothing to present completion
of the program, even going so far aft to
imperil the dignity of the republic and
endanger its sovereignty by provoking
conflict with a neighboring republic,
seeking to bring about, intervention on
the pretext that there was no protec
tion for the lives and properties of
foreigners. They even pretended to
seek intervention for humanitarian
considerations, appearing to lament
the shedding of blood in a necessary
war. although they did not scruple to
squander lives and permit all manner
of excesses against natives and for
eigners.
"These enemies of the constitutional
ists oppose not only the reforms already
effected, but those in prospect. There
fore." the preamble says, "the only way
in which to attain the desired ends is to
provide for a constitutional assembly,
through which the whole country will
be able to express clearly its sovereign
will, putting the government on a firm
basis, beyond all question #f legality."
Convocation of 1857.
As a precedent for the action of Gen.
Carranza in calling a constitutional con
vention, the decree refers to the fact
that in 1857 a similar assembly was
convoked, after Santa Anna was de
posed. The legality of this assembly
was undoubted, although it did not fol
low the constitution of 1824.
The enemies of the constitutionalists.
Gen. Carranza says further, have im
puted tOjhim motives which he never
entertained. Accordingly he determin
ed to forestall attacks by a frank arid
sincere declaration that the reforms
projected qpre not intended to lead to
the establishment of a dictatorship.
On the other hand the government to
be established will be of such form as
to demonstrate categorically that sov
ereignty resides within th* people, by
whom it should be exercised for the
puolic benefit. Both federal and state
rights will be respected and the spirit
of the constitution will be carried out.
The only purpose is to purge the con
stitution of defects in the way of ob
scurity and contradiction, or of clauses
inserted for the purpose of nullifying
domestic rights.
Procedure Mapped Out.
Then follow the provisions deter
mined upon by Gen. Carranza to carry
out his purpose. The election of dele
gates to th? constitutional assembly
will be held October 15. Business ses
sions will begin December 1, and will
be limited to two months.
As soon as a constitution is adopted]
a presidential election will be arranged,
and the assembly will be dissolved.
GEN. BLISS OPPOSES
BORDER CONSTABULARY
Americans on Joint Commission Un
willing to Believe Mexico of
Responsibility.
NEW LONDON. Conn., September 15. i
Practical obstacles have arisen In the,
consideration by the Amralcan-Mcxicaii |
joint commission, here, of numerous I
suggestions for the pacification of the
border, which make it seem Improbable,
at this time, that any agreement can be
formulated without prolonged discus
sion. . - .
Maj. Gen. Tasker H. Bliss, assistant
chief of staff .of the army, was before
the commission today, to point out ob
jections that can be raised to many
fjropoMktfh Including tbat ot an interna
tional constabulary to relieve the mili
tary forces of both countries of the bor
der patrol work they are now doin^.
Mexican Holiday Celebration.
The commission held only a brief
session. The Mexican party is planning
to leave for New York today, to attend
the celebration there tomorrow of
Mexico's national holiday commemorat
ing the declaration of her independence
and the throwing off of Spanish rule.
They will return Monday, when the con
ferences will be resumed.
While the attitude of Gen. Bliss, as
expressed to the commissioners here,
has not been revealed, it is believed he
shares the views of many army officers
familiar with the border situation, that
no satisfactory solution can be found
that is not based upon the establish
ment and maintenance of a stable- gov
ernment in Mexico.
Even the project o? forming a border
police' force, to be jointly supported by
the two governments, is open to the
objection, it is pointed out. that no mat
ter what plan might be employed to ad
minister its affairs and direct its move
ments its joint character would be hard
to maintain.
No Need Then fof Patrol.
It has been contended, also, that if
the de facto government was strong
enough to give practical co-operation in
the operation of the border police the
need for such a force would have passed.
Mexico could then take care of the situa
tion within her own borders.
There is no doubt that one purpose of
the Washington administration is to
arouse Mexico to the moral obligation
that it is felt rests upon her to protect
American interests along the interna
tional line from depredations of Mexican
bandits. For this reason it seems un
likely that any plan for protecting the
border will prove acceptable that seems
to relieve her of that responsibility.
DEMOCRATS NEED MORE
THAN G. 0. P. IN ILLINOIS
Deductions Based on Silent Vote and
Vote Cast in Primaries
Wednesday. *
A political statistician of thfs city,
who notes carefully the returns from
primaries and elections, has made some
computations on the basis of the Illi
nois primary vote cast the other day
which are of interest at this time. He
observes that the total vote Cast by all
three parties in 1912 for President?re
publicans. democrats and progressives?
was approximately 1,045,000, one-half
being 522,562. The republican vote for
senator in the recent primaries was
423,361, so that in order to carry Illi
nois in November the republicans milst
get 99,202 votes from those who did not
go to the polls at the primary. The
democratic vote Wednesday for senator
was 239.882, so that to carry the state,
on the basis of the 1912 vote, the demo
cratiTmust get 282,681 of the now silent
votes in November. Reduced to per
centage, to win in November the repub
licans must get 23 per cent of the now
silent vote, while the democrats must
get 77 per cent.
This same statistician has drwn an
other interesting deduction froitf the Il
linois returns, on the point of the re
union of the progressives with the re
publicans. He computes that if every
republican who voted for Taft In 1912
went to the polls Wednesday and voted
for the republican candidate for sena
tor, no less than 44 per cent of the pro
gressive votes of 1912 was also cast for
that candidate. Inasmuch as it is prob
able. he reasons, that not all of the Taft
voters of 1912 went to the polls at the
primary, it follows that a much, larger
percentage of the 1912 progressives
were active Wednesday for the republi
can ticket.
In deference to the wishes
of many of its readers, The
Star will not print advertise
ments of intoxicating bev
erages hereafter.
To Answer Candidate Hughes,
Justifying Legislation Which
Averted Strike.
WORK BASIS PERMANENT;
PAY INCREASE TEMPORARY
Welcomes Argument, and Will Make
Known His View in Speech at
Shadow Lawn or in Letter.
LONG BRANCH, N. J.,-Sep
tember 15.?President Wilson de
cided today to take advantage of
the earliest possible opportunity
to challenge the statement made
by Cha"r]es E. Hughes in recent
speeches thaj the basis on which
the recently threatened railroad
strike was averted was merelv an
increase of wages for the em
ployes.
The President, his political advisers
said today, considers the principle of
the eight-hour day vitally affected by
the strike settlement, and will seek
to show that, while the railroad legis
lation passed by Congress to meet the
situation will give the employes at
least a temporary increase in pay, the
more important point is that it es
tablished the eight-hour day as the
basis of y^-ork for railroad workmen.
By Speech or Letter.
The President will make known his
views either in a speech at Shadow
Lawn or in a letter. Democratic lead
ers expect the republicans to continue
their efforts to make the strike settle
ment an issue. It was said today that
Mr. Wilson will welcome such an argu
ment.
Mr. Wilson expects to make clear that
he will not be satisfied until Congress
enacts into law the rest of the railroad
legislation he recommended when the
strike was threatened, including an in
crease in the interstate commerce com
mission and a measure for investiga
tion of controversies between railways
and their employes bfefore strikes or
lockouts are called.
Selecting Investigators.
The President has already begun the
work of selecting the board to investi-:
gate the operation of Jhe eight-hour
day on railroads, although the new ar
rangement will not go into effect for
several months. He will seek, it was
said today, to appoint a board which
will have the full confidence of the rail
ways, the employes and the public.
SISTER OF PRESIDENT
> NOW SINKING RAPIDLY
Mr. Wilson Probably Will Go to
South Carolina for Funeral if
Mrs. Howe^ies.
LONG BRANCH. N. J., September 15.
?President Wilson received word to
day that his sister, Mrs. Annie E.
Howe, who is ill at New London, Conn.,
was sinking rapidly. Tentative plans
were made immediately for his de
parture tor Nciw London later today.
?~ln case Mrs. Howe^dled it was stated
'??M. . / .
the President probably will go to
South Carolina for the funeral.
President Wilson spent the forenoon
today playing golf in the rain with
Mrs. Wilson, "iarlier in the morning
he had settled down, after a brisk walk,
for a day's labor indoors with his
stenographer, but after two hours in
hi* study he changed his plans and
sought recreation on the links. Rain
fell shortly after he and Mrs. Wilson
left Shadow Uwn, but they declined to
let this Interrupt their diversion.^
NEW LONDON, Corfn., September 15.
?Mrs: Aftnie E. Howe. President Wil
ton's Ulster, gravely 111 here, is grow
in* steadily weaker. A bulletin issued
today says: "Mrs. Howe has been
growing weaker for the last twelve
hours." ,
PRINCfe FREDERICK WILLIAM
KILLED AT CARA ORMAN
BERLIN. September IB, via London,
4 40 p.m. Prince Frederick William of
Hesse has been killed at Cara Orman,
it was officially announced by the war
office today in its report on operations
on the Balkan front.
Prince Frederick William of Hesse
was a nephew of Emperor William. He
was born In 1893 at Frankfort-on-the
Main, the eldest son of Prince Fred
erick Charles of Hesse and Princess
Margaret, sister of the German emperor.
He was reported wounded in the fight
ing in France in September. 1914.
Prince Frederick William is the sec
ond prince of the house of Hesse to be
killed in the war. Prince Maximilian
falling on a French battlefield in Octo
ber 1914 Seven other* fferman princes
have been killed during the war?two
of Saxe-Melningen. three of Lippe. one
of Reuss -and one'of Waldeck.
McGILLICUDDY'S DEFEAT .
SURPRISES POLITICIANS
One of the surprises to politicians
who watched the Maine election was
the defeat of Representative McGilli
cuddy, a democrat, who was expected to
show great strength because of the
backtng"g'ven him by the labor leaders.
Representative McGillicuddy. author of
the federal compensation act. had about
as good a political asset as any repre
sentative who ever sought re-election,
as the compensation act provides an
adequate and scientific method for pay
ment of pensions and compensations
for Injured and disabled employes of
the federal government. It was ^n?c'
ed only a few days before the Maine
^Labor leaders are said to have gone
into the McGillicuddy district and cam
paigned strongly for h1?- J^"10"J"
claimed the Lewiston district, from
which Mr. McGillicuddy comes, and re
publican forecasters conceded that it
would go democratic. But the
can candidate won by a comfortable
majority, much to the surprise of e\er>
one. and to the great confusion of cer
tain democratic leaders who are wofr>
ing over the labor end of the outcome.
Increased Cost of Materials, Topic.
ATLANTIC CITY. N. J.. September 15.
The advance In the price of all ma
terials that enter into the manufacture
of brass was the chief topic for discus
sion at today's session of the National
Brass Founders' Association in annual
convention here. Adolph Miller of Chi-,
cago presided.
Collector J. B. Winchell Dead.
NEW HAVEN. Conn.. September 15.?
J. Rice Winchell. for over twenty years
collector of customs at New Haven,
died here, aged etghty-flve years At
one time he was editor of the New
Haven Palladium, and in the later
slxties published papers at Hannibal
and Palmyra, Mo.
?Rfliii-nad Hearing in Washington.
GRAND ISLAND. Neb., September 15.?
Franeis G. Newlands, United States
senator from Nevada, "ays the report
?ent from Chicago that hearings on
government ownership of railroads
would be held in Chicago was incor
rect. The hearing, he ?*!<>? *lll be
queued in Washington November 29.
GENERAL STRIKE
MAY BEAVERTED
Officials Hope to Head Off
Sympathetic Walkout With
in Twenty-Four Hours.
VIOLENCE IS RENEWED
ON THE ELEVATED LINES
Sixth and Ninth Avenue Trains
Bombarded With Bricki, Stones
and Other Missiles.
NEW YORK, September 15.?
Although union leaders have-vir
tually abandoned hope that Mayor
Mitchel and the public, service
commission may bring about an
amicable adjustment of the differ
ences between the striking street
railway men and tjjeir employers,
the belief was stiVng in official
circles today that some action
would be taken within the next
twenty-four hours to avert the
threatening sympathetic strike of
70.000 trade unionists.
The Central Federated Union of.Man
hattan will hold a special meeting to
consider the advisability of joining- in
a strike that "will astound New York."
The Brooklyn Central Labor iUllion,
comprisiing ninety-flve local unions,
has already voted in favor of such a
strike.
During: the ^night violence broke out
anew. From midnight until early to
day 6th and 9th avenue elevated
trains were bombarded with, bricks,
stones and other missiles. One, guard
was injured. Service on the ,aubway
and elevated lines continues normal,
but the surface lines are still crippled.
The executive committee of the so
cialist party of this city announced to
day that as a result of the dtitke the
party would institute a campaign for
the municipal~ownership of all'transit
lines in the greater city.
Other Unions Discuss Plans.
I ' Pians 'were discussed- today by the
leaders of the street railway strike for
a sympathetic walkout of SO,000 to
80,000 workers here in trades allied
with the operation of the street car
system. James P. Holland, president ol
the State Federation Of Labor, 1iaa
threatened to call out the workers in
these trades If the present deadlock is
not broken before tomorrow ni&ht.
The Central Labor Union of ferook
lyn has indorsed the principle of a
sympathetic strike. This unton con
trols ninety-flve local org&nit&tions.
The New York Central Federated Union
is to consider the question tonight.
The plan, l^wever. must be approved
by the local unions befdre it cUn be
put into effect.
The determination of the strike
leaders to call a sympathetic strike
was interpreted to mean that they hkve
abandoned hope of reaching a favor
able settlement through the effortfc of
the mayor and the public service com
mission.
Members of the general committee
of the Interborough Brotherhood, com
posed of employes of the Interborough
Rapid Transit Company, intend to call
on the mayor today to ask for a hear
ing. They say the members of that
union have no sympathy with" the
strike.
MOB OF ANGRY WOMEN
IN HAMBURG FOOD RIOT
LONDON, September 15.?An Amster
dam dispatch to the Exchange Tele
graph Company says:
"Serious food riots occurred at Ham
burg Saturday evening. According to
Berlin reports, a mob of angry women
raided shops that had been closed owing
to a shortage of meat and vegetables,
while another crowd deinenstrated be
fore the town hall, shouting: 'Down
with the junkers! Down with the peo
ple's torturers!'
"Thirty-seven women were arrested.
Two policemen were badly injured by
stones thrown from windows."
PAPER EXPORT CONDEMNED.
Master Printers Provide $1,000,000
for Educational Campaign.
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., September 15.
?Resolutions condemning large ship
ments of paper abroad and indorsing
the plan for a three-year educational
campaign, which, it Is estimated, will
cost $1,000,000, were adopted by the
United Typothetae and Franklin clubs
of America at the closing session of
their thirteenth annual convention yes
terday.
The convention also indorsed the na
tional standardization and uniformity
plan and the proposition for a sound
apprenticeship system.
C. D. Traphagen of Lincoln. Neb., was
elected president, and other officers
were chosen as follows: Vice president,
Bepjamin P. Moulton, Providence, R. I.;
treasurer. Arthur E. Southworth, Chi
cago; secretary, Joseph A. Borden, Chi
cago.
VERDICT AGAINST NICARAGUA.
Central American Court Finds Salva
dor's Rights Infringed.
SAN SALVADOR, Republic of Salva
dor. September 15.?The Central Ameri
can court of Justice has Riven the Nlc
aramian government sixty days in
which to reply to the claim of the re
public of Salvador. The claim concerns
the treaty between the United States
and Nicaragua for the establishment
of a United States naval base in Fon
seca bay.
A decision favorable to the conten
tion of the republic of Salvador that
the republic's rights had been Infringed
by Nicaragua's treaty with the United
States for the establishment of a naval
base in Fonseca bay was upheld by the
Central American court of justice.
Nicaragua announced that It would
not accept the decision of the court.
Before the court's award to Salvador
the Costa Rlcan republic had" won "a.
similar appeal. _ . _ _ i
BULGARIANS DRIVEN
BACK 12 MILES ON
MACEDONIA FRONT
Serbians Score Striking Suc
cess After Days of Fighting
West of Lake Ostrovo.
FRENCH" CAPTURE LONG
. LINE OF FOE'S POSITIONS
British Also Register Important
Gains to West of the
Vardar.
RUMANIANS CHECK ENEMY
Retain Hold on Lipnitza in All
Night Fighting?Sofia Reports
Seizure of 10,000 Square
Kilometers in Dobrudja.
LONDON, September t? ?
Heavy strokes are being delivered
by Gen. Sarrail's forces against
the Bulgarians on tlie Macedonian
front, with, marked success, ac
cording to Paris today. Vic
tories have been won by the Ser
bians, French and British.
The official statement indicates
that the most serious defeat was
administered by the Serbians,
who drove the Bulgarians back
twelve miles after several day-'
fighting west of Lake Ostrovo.
capturing many prisoners and
twenty-five cannon.
The French and British drove
at the Bulgarian center on both
. sides of the Vardar, the French
taking positions a mile long anil
half a mile deep east of the river,
and the British carrying impor
> tant positions west of the stream.
British Take Salient.
1 British troops moved forward after
artillery preparation through Mucu
kove (eight miles southwest of Dolran)
and in the face of stubborn opposition
captured a salient in the enemy's line
to the north of the village. Consider
able ground was gained, and although
the enemy counter attacked, British
gains were fully maintained.
The Serbians took the Bulgarian po
sitions at Malkanldse. northwest of
Lake Ostrovo, whereupon the Bul
garians retired in the direction of Flo
rinda. Th? Bulgarians also are said to
be retreating from positions further
south. The Serbian oflicial statement
sayft:
"Our offensive continued yesterday
on the entire front, with complete suc
cess, Prisoners say the intensity and
precision of our artillery fire inflicted
heavy losses. At many points the Bul
gars are retiring under the pressure
of our infantry, which is successively
occupying enemy positions. Our action
continues energetically."
Bulgarian Official Report.
In regard to Macedonian operations
the latest Bulgarian oflicial statement
sa v s:
"Macedonian front?There was strong
reciprocal artillery and infantry firing
yefcterday near l?ake Ostrovo. In the
Moglenica region there was increased
artillery and infantry firing, as well as
mining'activity. The enemy attempted
to advance at some points and was re
pulsed by our fire.
"Two Italian battalions, one squad
ron of cavalry and one battery ad
vanced In the direction of Hutkova and
Dxuma. Our detachments attacked them
energetically and put them to flight.
The enemy retired and was pursued by
' our troops. We captured one officer and
eighty-seven men. This was our second
eTnTheeIs? Valley there was scat
"'The ho'stHe'fleet continues to cruise
off the Aegean coast as usual.
Rumanians Repulse Enemy.
The Times' Rumanian headquarters
correspondent says:
-The Bulgarians Tuesday attacked
the Rumanian positions at Lipnitza, but
were repulsed after a fight lasting all
night. They lost eight guns."
In the first ten days of campaigning
in Dobrudja the Bulgarians captured
more than in.0<io square kilotneters of
ground o? more than the Writory losi
to Rumania after the second Balkan
war says a dispatch from Sofia. Th.
fighting started on a front of 1HU kilo
meters < 11" miles?. The front has now
been reduced to wo kilometers, it is
claimed.
DBOP BOMBS ON SOFIA. *
French Aviators Make Trip From
Saloniki to Bucharest.
LONDON, September 15.?Five bombs
have been dropped on Sofia by two
French aviators. Noel and Lesueur.
according to a dispatch to Reuter s from
Bucharest. The two airmen flew from
Saloniki to Bucharest. passing over
Sofia on their way. The voyage last
ed Ave hours. The distance traversed
was about 400 miles.
Bulgar Minister to Bejoin Army.
LONDON. September 15.?The Bul
garian minister of the interior, Christu
poppow, has resigned to rejoin the
arm*' according to Central News ad
vices' from Sofia. Premier Radoslavoir,
who also holds the portfolio of foreign
affairs, will act temporarily as minister
of the interior.
"Dry" Special on Pacific Coast.
SEATTLE, Wash.. September 15.?Ths
coast to coast prohibition special, car
rying J. Frank Hanly. the prohibition
presidential candidate, and other pro
hibition campaigners, started down the
coast today. Stops for speeches will be
made at Ave cities, including Tacoma.
A meeting will be held at Portland to
alKbt. a 4
