'r -
v. ... ., .. , . .
. It J - , : i -V3T - ... Sf r . r'lyXlOlK :
YISTUDAY S ; WEATHER
ir. B "WKATrtEB BUREAU
Ht. 14, 1J1 lt twenty
foor hours' rainfall, 0, 5m
raturi, Uia. 71;'Ma 84;.
Wther, pU cloud., y
UnST CABLED SUGAR QUOTAYiCNS
Omta Dalian
M Oaatrtfagala H. T. par lb p tm
Prie, Hawailaa baaia 6 52 1110.40
TTf. iT f V X W W W W VA Vv7 s&T AvOT fcir Acy i pr. ,nota- I
: - ' 77 y - HONOLULU, HAWAII TERRITORY, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15. 1916, SEMI-WEEKLY WHOLE
GjLESilfJICpSTWISE STEAMER CONGRESS DESTROYEPyMEAT SM
nrhii tj rnnnn lirwur,., :z- - .
KW I M f I I , b ll I I I I I I ' I 1 1 1 1 .H 1 1 1 1 1 III 1111 it 11
I L V IV I lu U I imual: iilii iufi
II 1 1 I LI1U Ul
ALLIED FOES
Great Steel Pinchers of French
and British Armies Swiftly
Closing On Picardy Town Ger
mans Have Turned To Fortress
GENERAL FOCH'S TROOPS
CAPTURE LE PRIEX FARM
Thousands of Unionists Threaten
To Strike Unless Railroad
Trouble Is Settled
Strikers' Oil Tracks and Cars
Crash When They Line
Down Incline
I lcn thouitand prrnonn attended
I mH weting. In tho upper Rant Hi
Beat Back Attacks Launched Bv . ' niFht "nd yotei to cn 1or
. , . Kympathetic itrike which would bri
uruwn rnnco ot uavaria in
Effort To Regain Highway Be
tween Peronne and Bathune
(AmocUU Ttm by rdarel Wlralau.)
PAR1H, Heptember 15. ('ombleit,
tht) little Frenrh city which tho
Germans have turned into a ver
itable tortrasa with machine gunn and
big pins, ia now between the jaw of
the British and French nippers, and is
flanked on the eaat and went bv the
armies of the Allies which arc ciosing
in tighter and tigher.
Yenterdny the British drove forward
lilfKtly in tha sector to tho north of
Oinchy, bringing their line more nearly
north nnd south and increaHing the
British menace to Gomble.
While the men under General Haig
were making that drive the French
under the command of General Foch
wera ansoulting the farm of I.e Trie,
which liua ta -tha
fortress, and about a mile distant.
Carry Farm 87 Assault
The Freock Jiaua waking
ateady gaitfftnllU Vlrifnlfy for several
days and yaatarday they laanched an
ttaak which carried tho farm, with
the oufbulldings by storm. The Oer
mans had turned . tha lsce into a
small fort,' with trench mortars, na
c hino guns nnd vast stores of ft and
grenades. In pite of this they were
not able ttt cheek, the French assault,
nd abandoned tha position after some
hand to hand lighting.
This not only brings the ends of the
pinchers that are nipping Cnmbles
closer together, but gives the Frenrh
advantage of ground in other ways, the
farm standing on a slight elevation
thnt commands the country around
about for some distance. Incidentally
it also broadens the French control of
the important Peronne Hupaume Be
thune road, cut by the French when
they K)(,k liour.havesiies several davs
ago. '
'P'e importance of this road to the
Germans in the Rovb .ui;., ... .1...
aouth, can be gathered from the .1...
rts thev made venterHuv .
erate etlorts
recapture the positions around H. ,',!,,.
vesnes. Vainly they battered all dav
yesterday against the 11. wlv won
rrench ositions. Again ami agaii.
they launched attacks agamxt the noso
of the sulient the Frentli .:.ave driven
ii:to their flanks there, only to be
thrown buck by the French artillery
fire and infantry.
Talk of Retirement
For some days back there linn been
talk of i general German retirement
from the Roye sectors, which lie to the
Bouth of (,'haulnes, and this has been
revived since the fall of Houcb.i venues
into French hands, for, artliounh tho
Roye salient is not dependent upon th.i
I'eronne Hetliune road for supplies, it
was one of the main transport loutes
from the south to the north, and one
upon which the Germans iave been
relying for months. The problem of
supplying the southern salient h, iconics
vastly mo'-e difficult and uncertain with
that main highway in the hands of tho
French.
Houth of the Homme there was the
customary artillery fire during the day,
ssve in the region south of Uelliy en
Hsnterre. "here the French advanced
slightly after a bousing attack which
succeeded .
Verdun Attacks Hepulsod
In the fields north of Verdun there
was a resumption of the fighting in the
vicinity of Fleury, were the Germans
have been agnin attempting to drive
the French out of the positions General
Petain has recaptured from the Crown
1'rinoa. Yesterday the official accounts!
teld of a number of German attacks in
that sector, which wore repulsed with
heavy loss. 1
The Rumanian drive into (lie l,..n,l I
of Transylvania has been checked by
the Austrian armies, according to of
fleial despatches from Vienna last
night. For some time there has been
talk of a shortage of transport for the
Russian armies operating in Transyl
vania, as well as a general stiffening of
the Austrian defensive, and unofficial
reports have revived this talk.
Berlin officially decnred that the
Germans and Bulgnrs operating in the
(Continued on Pugu Three).
'.!?r1l.,!'r 'Irl WtrslsM.)
NhW YORK. HenUmh.r 1 WiH
the street car strike thruianlna in in.
elude thousands more of union workers
in this CltV. the Sltnatlnn ni.rh
was bKcker thnn it ha i.a.
- " - . ' ' .11 I 11 V T. 1 1J (1
meetinar of the Interhnrnmrh miinv
on Heptember (i, when they voted to
i 1 1 Kir.
Ten thousand oerann ttemloit
the upper East Hide
nted to call for a
sympathetic strike which would bring
win u,tnni trades unionists tomorrow,
unless Mayor Mitchel succeeded in
bringing the officials of the streetcar
companies, as well as the union leader
to terms before that time.
Trolley Car'n Ran wild
The feeling between the strikers and
the strike-breakers was illustrated yes
terday when, one after another, flva
trolley cars crashed with the rear of
cars ahead of rhem on a steep incline
in the Bronx. Ten passengers were
hurt, some seriously, and the atrike
brenker who were manning the cars
declared that they could not control
the trollevs nm thm tr..k . ,.l tk.
dine had been oiled so that the brakes
would not hold the wheels.
The companies have been manning
the cars with strike hrimker. a. u.:
ly as possible and have been sendina
an nir r ror wnicn police pro
teelion has been nrrvwlH . .
scniirnre the r resworn nn h. ....i:
publio has been somewhat eased, and a
rimK or ornimism bad been spread
ing throuffhoui: tha it .,: k. j.
eiaioa f' tht mass- meeting' last night
8tccki.TfitLa.xrnHii. nh .2
" T"he )UKinfsa elraaeat, in particular
..i ii.ui me sirnitf sould not continue,
and that one side or the other would
yield soon. This feeling was reflected
in 'he stock market yesterday.
The stock market showed an extra
ordinary rise today. Early trading
showed transactions of half a million
shyes, with gains from one to three
points in industrials, equipments, mo
tors and oils, while the shares in almost
every other description of stock gave
almost as notable gains. Bethlehem
scored a twentv nnint . n
j I--"". nuu
50.
TURKEY RECEDES
TH?nr,'l l "i! Wi"t-TIh compMirlng map .how. the progrM made by the Preach and British
hilT offT rta 23, datliK the course of which approxImatel40,000 Oerman prtsoner.
uumccesniuiy counier-attacKea yesterday.
REGARDING SYRIA
Sublime Porte Will Allow United
States To Send Food To
Armenians
(Associated Prass by rsderil Wlrslms.)
WAHIIINOTON, Heptember 15 Af
ter months of effort on the part of the
liiited Htates, Turkey has rescinded
her declaration against allowing the
importation of food for the starving
Armenians in yna and has announ
thnt she will nermit siumliaa 1..
shipped in for the use of the 11 ffe ri ti ir
thousands.
In!', Munition to this effect reached
the officials of the state department
yesterday afternoon and was immedi
ately made public. The concessions do
not include the people in Armenia
proer, where the Russians are now
fighting, and the L'nlted Htates govern
ment will continue its negotiations 1111
til it obtains similar oonceasions for
that part of the Hultan's domains.
1 ne luiRisu plan is to send the sup
plies sent from this country through
Beirut, and it is believed thnt the
Allies will agree to this as they me
most anxious to get such provisions
through to tho starving people of tlio
country.
Former Ambassador Morgenthau be
gun the negotiations which have been
carried through.
S
.. . A
21
M
AONIFICENT Coastwise Liner Congress, Which Was Abandoned By Passengers and Crew
sTiT e-. t J r m f. - .
wws oay, vrcgon, ana ieit to unit a Kagmg Furnace when Kire Doomed Craft
1
H I
!
i
is s -r1T1Tgl- 1 1 1 " " ' I
PREMIER Of GREECE CARRANZA WANTS CARRANZA'S FORCES
WSBROH QUITING REVISION OF LAWS FEAR VILU ATTACK
PASSENGERS AND CREW
ARE SAVED AFTER SHIP
HAS RACE WITH FLAMES
Wireless Distress Signal Brings Rescue Craft
To Doomed Vessel, Which Is Adandoned
Off Coos Bay and Left To Drift When Steel
Liner Becomes Veritable Roaring Furnace
MASTER QUELLS A PANIC
(Associated Press by Federal Wireless.)
SAto FRANCISCO, September 15. The Congress, finest of the
Pacific Coast Steamsliin Cnmnanv' tlirf r-r.at ctomiora
. 1 ' o,v,.i, j
charred derelict, drifting under a pall of smoke towards Coo Bay,
i t i t i . - .
aoanaoneu Dy ner passengers and crew. I he passengers, of them,
and the crew, 175 men, landed at North Bend, Oregon, last night, safe
but shocked by the experience through which they had passed. The ship
is a toiai loss.
The Congress, which was four years old, having been built by the
New York Shipbuilding Company of Camden, New Jersey, on the
Delaware, in 1912, and brought round the Horn to assist her sister
ships, the President and the Governor, in the coastwise trade of the
company that owns the ships, was on her way from San Francisco to
Seattle yesterday afternoon when fire broke out in one of the steerage
V.J 1 . I 1 L I I
V.OUIII3 III IMC fCCUllU IIOIU.
FLAMES SPREAD OVER BIG SHIP
It was shortly after three o'clock when the first hint of the flames
was observed, and Canlain Cnucin trip cnmm9nl r.rAif,a At Ci
, T , T , . . V......I11.I111 V 1 , I1U1 1,11.11, ; ill 11131
it was thought that there was of small importance nd could be ex-
sMM.siVU.J ....L..4 A -...t-1 - n..a. - A - y . ' k m
'l'l.a,?,.,vu wiihuui iruuuicx oui mc pames grew m screngin nq yqiuroc
ai.M water uiaqc orc-ngmcrs oine crew, ana n$ volunteers from
thV
BRITISH SEIZE DANISH
MAIL IN NEUTRAL SHIP
(AssacUtsd Frsss by rsdsrsi WtrsUss.)
HKUI.1N, Heptember 15. Th Hrit
iNh hhvhI suthuritiss have siKnrl Dun
inti msil on board the Norwegian
stcHmrr KriHtiania Fjord, bounii from
Ni'w York for Borgnn, accord in to a
di-spHti'h to the Overseas News Agency.
,
CHOLERA SPREADS RAPIDLY
(Spwlsl Oshlagrsm to Kswsll Shlnpo.)
TOKIO, Heptember 14. Cholera in
the prefecture of Okayaina is iorreun
iiiH every day. Government nuthori
ties huve been eonipelled to close all
public acliools. v
Zaimis Will Not Remain In Office
Despite Friends
(Aisocuud Pr-si by Fadtral Wlrslsss)
AT1IKNH, Heptember II Kfforts to
peiHiimle Alexander Zuimis, the Greek
iremier and Htateman, to remain in
otlice have proved fruitless, emphaniz
ini; the factional strife and discord in
Kinj,' CoiiHtantine 's country.
Zuimis' pride was wounded it the
appearance of the Allied fleet at l'iru
eus lit the moment that negotiations
were beyun by tht Allies for the entry
of (ireere into the war, the show of
force by the Kntente rowers offending
the (ireek ptntesiuun.
The discord of the country in tie
face of the national crisis further oper
ated to discourage the entire cabinet.
(Associated Fri by rsdaral Wtrsloss)
NKW LONDON, Connecticut, Sep
tember 15. Mexican members of the
joint international peace commission,
meeting here to settle the disputed
points between the Vnited Htates and
Mexico, yesterday explained to the com
inissioiicrs the attitude of the Carranza
k'ow'riimeiit toward important govern
mental questions.
They declared that Carranxa wishes
to institute sweeping reforms in Mixi
eo, particularly in court procedure and
Mill the code of laws under which Mexico
is governed. It is proposed to simplify
lejial procnd-iro, eliminate corruption
and bribery and to reform the national
code.
The commission also ronsidnrml th.,
question of establishing an internation
al border polioe, or neutral constabul
ary to put ml the Mexican frontier in
order to check raids of outluws vl
keep order.
Funston Reports Reinforcements
Sent To City of Chihuahua
(AssocUUd Prsss by Fsdarsl Wlrslsss.)
HA X ANTONIO, Heptember 14.
(ieueral Funston, commanding the bor
der troops, said today that General
Bell, at K! has reports that tha
Carranzista troops fear an attack by
General Villa and his men at the City
of Chihuahua.
It is reported that troops of the do
facto government are being rushed
fiom the south to reinforce the Car
iaiir.il garrison at the City of Chi
huahua. (ieueral l'eishing's latest despatches
place Villu's probable position as near
Guerrero, eighty miles west of the City
of Chihuahuu.
gasseners cotrldhj itaud in a gbott tijneJfwiK aepn that;
ship -was "doorned". ',p"""?vm';.
As SOOn as this became, 'flonnrent Cant a in Cniteina UtrnA k t'A
-r r VVMU...W .1-1 lliv lVfVI
of his vessel in the direction of Coos Bay, then about thirty miles to
xl . i . .
ine east, ana oraerea tun speed trom his engineer. The steamer raced
along over a sea that fortunately was smooth, and with but a light head
wind to fan the flames, which by this time were beginning to force
their way toward the stern of the doomed craft.
.
MAIN WIRELESS PLANT BREAKS DOWN
As soon as the fire was discovered it was reported to shore by wire
less, but when the vessel's head was turned toward Coos Bay and an
effort was made to send out an anneal for assistance, it wm found that
the main wireless plant had broken down Whether the tit had fnrl
some of the wires, or the break came from some other cause, is not
known, but the w ireless -operator immediately set to work to install the
auxiliary iaiu.
It took some time to get this in working order and sent out the s. o. s.
signal.
The call brought hell). The ;te;im flrpiWr fi,-bi'
schooner Tillamock, both went to the assistance of the Congress, but
not until she had neared the Coast so as to be in soundings.
KACE WITH FLAMES MADE SHOREWARD
Meantime the race with the flames went on, while the wireless sent
frantic calls for help broadcast over the sea. The decks became un
bearably hot as the fire crept fore and aft from its starting place, and
though all the hatches had been battened down and air doors and ports
closed as tightly as possible, so as to smother the flames, they still gained
with remarkable rapidity.
When i he t oast line of Oregon appeared above the sea and it was
seen that the vessel surely would make land, if not port, .before the
flames hurst their bonds, the passengers, who had preserved excellent
control of themselves, broke out into a cheer.
Shortly afterward the Tillamock hove in sight and came down to
stand by and render what assistance her commander could give. Shortly
the Mil hie came in sight and ranged alongside the Tillamock, ready to
lend a hand.
MAD RUSH FOR BOATS STOPPED BY OFFICERS
The Congress by this time had drawn near to the shore; the heat
from the flames was becoming more than the people on board could
stand, and at last Captain Cousins stopped, the ship, dropped anchor
and gave command to lower away the boats. As the boats dropped
over the side into the calm water there was a mad rush of the passen
gers to enter them and cscane from the sronbino- He.-ke
This was promptly checked by the officers of the ship and the dis
embarkation of the passengers in the steamer was carried forward in
an orderly manner, the women and children going first. The boats
made for the dredge Michie which took on board all of the passengerv
ami crew.
As soon as all persons were safe the light luggage belonging to the
passengers was put in the boats and taken to the dredge. This work
went on until the decks began warping under the heat and turning red
hot in places where the flames raged fiercest.
TWO MEMBERS OF CREW OVERCOME
So long bad some of the crew lingered over this work that' two of
them were caught by the burst of smoke that came when one of the
hatches blew off, and were overcome. They were lifted over the side
and carried to the Michie. One of them suffered severely and was taken
to the hospital, as soon as the dredge reached dock, where he was re
ported still unconscious late last night.
Chief Stewart Damsden gave a vivid account of the fire and the race
for safety on his arrival at North Rend.
,,-!
(Continued on Page Three).
