TF I N ATSf CI AT, E Dl T I O N
NIGHT
EXTRA
.c
SMtger
NIGHT
EXTRA
vol. in. no. 2
WHOLE POLICE
FORCE CALLED
IN STRIKE RIOT
-i TT1 J
-New Yonc mxes jxtra
Safeguards in Trolley
Crisis
TRAIN IS FIRED UPON
Sympathizers Increase Violence,
' hut Escape, Sdmo Over
f Tr !.
NEW TOItK. Sept 15. Increasing vlo
w. In the traction strike today was fol-
Mewed by orders from Police Commissioner
j : . i.i.i. nin nut Almost every avail-
ible police omcer In the cltr on. duty In
M effort to control the present situation
".najneet conditions that may arise should
Z (fit renewed threat to call out 400.000
.wbrkers In n. sympatneiio su-iko oo car.
Wild
' Commissioner "Wood Issued an order re-
'ealllnr forty-two mounted policemen from
Syracuse,
where they have beenf staging
whlbltfons at the State Fair. The commls
fe 'etener wants every mounted officer possible
for duty, and wired Captain waisn, at syra
cum, to start back with his men by train
Saturday night At the same time "orders
were Issued suspending the police school for
viti oresent The 106 "rookies" In training
K' there are to bo placed on regular duty Im
mediately.
EXPRESSMEN MAT STMKB
A general strlko of expressmen Is now
threatened, according to police reports to-
4erV Fifty drivers of one express company
have already gone out, and the strike Is
p. tiii to be planned to affect all companies.
"Serious violence marked the opening ot
'fee second week of the traction strike early
.toeay. Elevated trains were attacked with
' revoIvers, bricks, bottles and stones. Many
Messengers narrowly escaped Injury, In one
xlwUnce a bullet lodging in uie wooqwotk
of an elevated car a short distance from a
yusenger's head.
Windows were shattered and passengers
jfcrown Into panic In every Instance, how-
ir, the attackers escaped before the police
, reach the roofs of the buildings from
attacks were made.
HtmnMnF! PATtn impeded
Sorts to resume surface car operation
i larger scale than 'has been attempted
the strike went Into effect were
red by Pieces ot wood and bits, of
iBafce4 Jiu theunoergrourid trolley
i by strike sympathizers -
At 110th street and Lexington avenue
hooks were found wedged In the slot
of wood were jammed In at Four-
&enth street and Eighth avenue and at
, twenty-third street and Seventh avenue.
. Trafjlo on the subway and elevated lines
a. normal early In the day, although .the.
gesiion was maritea Because oi ino re-
servlce on the surface lines. Hun
it crowded the downtown platforms of
various stations and many were left
pkUndlng, as trains, packed to the limit
f lamed by with closed doors.
TO HEUEVE CONGESTION
Jlht New York Central and New Haven
Me4i continued to accommodate large num
Wi of Bronx residents, who ordinarily
reach the business district by electric cars.
Bttra police were detailed to handle the
'erowds at the Grand Central Terminal. Jlt-
Mf busses thronged the cross-town streets
sad did a rushing business at the ferries.
The Public Service Commission resumed
t ' Its Inquiry Into the cause of (he strike on
te Third avenue surface system after
paving taken a recess to give Louis Frl-
r, attorney for the Carmen's Union,
to consult Organizer William B. Fltx.
Mi of the Amalgamated Association.
IMY ATKINS REVISES HYMN
S TITTUP. TfIJTiDi T7ii cmarn
wIi, JLXXXJUIWXX OlrtUC
' Sonant War Front Knovm Among
v Gospelers
tONDON, Sept IB. "Tlpperary" has
i way at the battlefront to a song with
Fty lilt whose theme Is that the bullets
I slwayi get the other fellow.
Tlpperary" Is through; worn out by
etltlon.
1 se new nlecA with a tin ut. ...
M and threatens to become as popular
'Tlpperary" ever was.
r are me words:
tln--ltn-.!n
PHILADELPHIA, FOTDAT, SEPTEMBER 15, 1910
CoritiotiT, 1016, si Till Tcsuo Ltrxiici Courixr
ALLIES STRIKE FOES ON FOUR
FRONTS; CRUSH BULGAR RIGHT;
GAIN ON SOMME; HALICZ FALLS
Drive Back Enemy Ten Miles in Con
certed Assault in Macedonia Ferdi
nand's Troops Flee Toward
Greek Frontier
Russians Occupy Key to Lemberg British Advance on
Six-Mile Front in West Break Third German
Line French Move Closer
to Combles
The Entente Allies have struck four smashing blows ngnlnst the Central
Empires, according to dispatches from Paris, London, Pctrogrnd, Salonica
and Rome. The successful attacks were delivered on the following fronts:
Balkan front, where the combined Franco-British-Serbinn troops crushed
the cntiro right wing of tho Bulgars and sent it into retreat toward the
Greek frontier.
Somme front, where the troops under Haig and Foch scored nnothcr
advance in the battle for Combles and Pcronne, the British advancing along n
six-mile front to a depth of from 2000 to 3000 yards and the French capturing
a system of German trenches at Rancourt.
Gallclan front, where the Russians are reported to have occupied Halicz,
key to Lemberg.
Italian front, where the Italians stormed positions eastward of"Vnllone,
on the Carso Plateau, taking trenches nnd capturing 2117 prisoners and a
number of guns.
The allied troops have won the greatest victory against tho Germans and
Bulgarians since the Balkan offensive began.
Tho Serbs drove the Bulgarians back ten miles In hasty retreat on the
allied left wing, capturing Gountchevo by a brilliant bayonet charge and
the major part of the crest of Markanidgc. Serbian cavalry pursued the
retreating Bulgarians and captured the village of Eksisus.
British troops,.hnve captured Matchoukovo and two heights north of the
latter village.'
French troops advanced simultaneously'with the Serbs and British and
launched an attack upon enemy trenches on a front of nearly a mile.
Despite the desperate resistance of tho German-Bulgarian forces, the
French succeeded In occupying defenses along a 1600-yard line.
British troops resumed their great offensive on the Somme this morning
with a powerful blow against the German lines north of the Somme, advancing
2000 yards on the wide front from Bouleaux Wood, northwest of Combles, to
a point north of the AJbert-Bapaumc road. Southeast of Thiepval the British
last night captured German trenches on a front of 1000 yards.
BULGARIAN TROOPS. IN RETREAT
:- - TOWARD' THE GREEK FRONTIER
DANIELS IGNORES
LEAGUE ISLAND IN
WATERWAYS TALK
Secretary Delivers Address
to Convention Delegates
at Yard
TALKS OF INLAND ROUTE
Evades Discussion of Improve
ment and Development
Here
PAniS. $ejit. IS Allied French, Serbian
and Drltlsh troops have won a sweeping
victory over the Bulgarians on the Macedon
ian front, the ar Office announced today.
Trie Serbians routed the Bulgars on a front
ot "feme miles and 'are now In hot pursuit)
ofTths defeated enemy. In their advance
thV Serbians have occupied several Im
portant positions. Tho entire right wing
"of the Bulgarian army west of Lake Ostrovo
appears to have been crumpled up by the
smashing attack of the reorganlied Serbian
army.
The Serbians captured twenty-five can
non and a large number of prisoners. The
Bulgarians are still In retreat and fighting
Is continuing. The exact "-number of pris
oners and the amount of booty tokfcn has
not been reported to the allied base" at
Salonica.
The Serbs won their greatest victory
northwest of Lake Ostrovo, where Serbian
successes were reported yesterday. After
smashing Bulgarian trenches In the hilly
region, the Serbs evidently poured through
the breach In the Bulgarian line In force
and threw the defenders In disorderly re
treat toward the Greek frontier.
On the Vardar fro'nt the British found
themselves opposed by combined Bulgarian
and German forces, but these were unable
to check the attacks of the Britons, who
swept forward as the beaten enemy retired.
Tho British captured Matchoukovo In their
first assault.
Tt belle of hell ro
fcVXJS:. fl?t for rmi
h?v. .k. " 'js-a-iing-a-nns;
."rve the sooda lor m.
2LS!fi?. '"Li! nn organisation of street
ins oririnal veralnn ronitat
gora-y.rrhywo.ror.eV'r-'-"0-'-"0''
While their Serbian and English allies
wero driving forward successfully the
French also took the offensive and launched
an attack upon Bulgar trenches on a front
of nearly a mile. They met with desperate
resistance but after a bitter battlo suc
ceeded In wresting the entire trench line,
1500 yards long, from the Bulgars.
, The plunge of the Serbian army against
Continued on race Five, Coiumn Two
SAFE BLOWN ATEDDYSTONE
Burglars Get ?200 in T
Office
.oad Station
CHESTEH, Pa., Sept. 15. Burglars to
day entered the Eddystone passenger and
freight station of the Philadelphia and
Reading Railway and blew open the "safe.
The loss li sold to exceed $200.
Since Edd) stone became a munitions
town there have been many burglars and
pickpockets operating there.
Warship Arizona Passes Testa
WASHINGTON'. Sept 15. Acting Sec
retary of the Navy F. D. Roosevelt today
announced that the new United States bat
tleship Arizona had stood tests satisfactorily
and would be put Into commission at the
New York Navy Yard October 15. The
Arizona Is the "latesc word" In battleship
construction, being one of the largest war
ships of today. She Is In the Pennsyl.
vanta's class.
No mention of the part the Philadelphia
Navy Yard will play In the Inland water
was and coast defense scheme was made
today by Josephus Daniels, Secretary of
the Navy, In his address before the dele
gates on the closing da ot tho Inland
Waterways Convention, at the Philadelphia
Navy Yard.
In the shadow ot the big battleships at
Iengue Island, the delegates heard the
Secretary of the Navy pledge the "earnest,
enthusiastic co-operation of the Navy De
partment" In the Improvement of Inland
waterways for economlo and military pur
poses, and saw the picture he drtvr of ex
panding American commerce.
But the expected wo-d of what Philadel
phia may look for In the deelopment of Its
navy yard nnd the Delaware River, In
tegral parts In tho coast flefense system,
slid not come.
That modern events, stimulating the
building ot vessels ot all kinds, demand
protected water paths along the coast waa
the text from which Mr. Daniels spoke.
The delegates previously had heard Ad
miral William S. Benson, chief of staff and
former commandant of the Philadelphia
Navy Yard, recount the reasons for Inland
water routes In time of war and for con
struction and Government ownership of
canals to establish safe Inland passage
ways between Important naval centers.
AID TO COMMERCE
The events of the present year hare
glen fresh arguments to the plan to com
plete the Inland waterway from Massachu
setts to Florida," said Secretary Daniels,
who treated the subject principally from a
commercial standpoint. 'The time hai
come when wo should depend mainly upon
American bottoms to carry American
products. In the future we are going to
build ships as never before, f Tresent-day
statesmanship has the vision of a return'
to the old days when the American flag
was seen in every porC" .
lie spoke "with 'approval of the Alaskan
Railway, tho projected Improvements of
the Mississippi River and tho Sacramento
River and for Improvement of Inland water-'
ways so that a submarine may travel
through an Inner passage from Boston to
Key West.
The Secretary emphasized the Importance
of Inland waterways by calling attention
to the Increased value of submarines ard
small auxiliary vessels as scouts and sub
marine catchers In naal warfare.. Theso
vessels, he said, now navigate shallow
water and by using the Inland passage
along the coast can dart out against an
enemy without warnlhg.
OBJECTS IN VIEW
'The revival of ship building for com
merce will exert a mighty Influence upon
wise Improvements of rhers and harbors,
the deepening of rivers and the completion
of the Inland waterway canal," he said,
"America has formed the habit of big
things. Three great projects that will prove
our ability to conceive nnd carry out great
national Improvements for' the near future
ahe the Improvement of the Mississippi River
and Its tributaries, tho Improvement of the
Sacramento River and the completion ot the
Inland waterways. This Inland waterway Is
primarily to get cheap water transportation,
a crying need, but It has military value as
well."
The Importance of having sheltered ave
nues for the quick movement of smaller
Continued on Vt Two, Column Four
Mtatlon of Boy'a Lejr Cause Death
(imputation of a. leg was too rreat a
hi i Jiu eJ?yr'ol(1 Charlfa Potts,
,,- "vmi bi ino jacrersoR um;
miT r.vrr run ov'r " a wagon
' m" o Bireeu.
THE WEATHER
vntfmn a ct
$ FMhdtlphU a4vioimtvPrfb.
UPMH Mr PAY
IWAWS KlVMt T1SM OHjDMHW
5SS::i8 il t IE -,m .
VWWAfVU At KACVWVB ''
FIVE fiELD AS GANG
OF SUMMER THIEVES
Alleged "Fences" Also to Bo
Tried for Germantown
Robberies
The five burglars who, after a summer of
robbing the residences of vacationists in
Germantown. were arrested August 13,
after spectacular plstpl fight with police
men, today were held for court without ball
when arraigned before Magistrate Pennock
in the qermantown police court A negro
and his wife, and an juuan, ..
.rrastod later for receiving the stolen prop-
ertTpt t,and' WW8 htId ,n ,,0 ba"
""The flve wen. who the. polio, say have
been arrested on similar chafges on other
occasions, gave these names and addresses:
John Turner. Norwood street! Raymond
DevhFand Pa'triek Dougherty West
nlttenhouse street: James Kane. tliO
MoCallum street.
They 11 broken Into the resident o?
n. F MW, " WayBe avenye. the night
August S. wh y wwe d!tMte(1-
PoitoiwaB Ireland. Btre Sergeant Klvldge
-Twaativea Cerry and MeFarland. ef
thV Germantown station. oWwd In on th
iiU". who i""" ,u
r"J7wM a rwata tat In and around
a7Z,m "" M k4 '" 4ur
I to4r a"Hd havin
rnt,hHi twelve Oeritow this
HSU w-. r SttaSrsif &.
mw. vmW" " " .
HMP?,1
LOVE POWDER LANDS
CHURCH FOLK IN JAU
Negro Pastor's Daughter and
Sunday School Leader End
Prayer Meeting With Fight
Listen to the effects ot a "magla love
powder."
One minister's daughter, a superintendent
of a Sunday school, an organist, and two or
more women clalmlngt the same man as
hueband all were Involved In the hearing
of a case before Magistrate Baker today,
The love powder did It all and In this way:
After a riot call had reached the Twen
tieth and Federal streets police station last
night, two negroes and their companions
were placed under arrest by Policemen
Cope and Snell at SODS South Oakford
street. The women were badly cut and were
treated at the Polycllnlo Hospital. The
prisoners are John Selby, Lambert and
Wharton streets; Marie Selby, 2629 Annln
street, Lizzie Ttndley, 1(10 Christian street,
and Robert Jackson, In whose house the ar
rests were made,
The trouble came as a startling climax
to u. party given after prayer meeting In St.
Paul's Baptist Church, Twelfth and Bain
brldira streets, where Lizzie Tlndlav la nr.
ganlst and Selby In superintendent ot the
rfiunday school. ,
AooordlBg to tne testimony, Marie Selby
arrived and accused Llsxte Tlndley of
sprinkling the powder all over tbe room
In an attempt to gain Selby 'a affection.
Blows followed, and then oama knives, and
finally the police.
Selby testified that Marie Selby was net
his wife. Marie Bel by said was and'
oould prove it. Another wems In tbe
erowd olalmd Selby a hor husband. Mag.
IMrate Baker was puszled. H bold Jack
am In ll0 ball for a further ktArtaf.
Ball for the other was U1 at MM.
Meanwhile the four were M bock to
Uilr calls, where ttaejr sac hymm and
hold another Prayer nuetlac Umh 514
l la 'a daughter ' the insater of Ue
LW.W. MEN MAY HAVE
TO FURNISH BIG BAIL
Hearings in Scranton Today for
263 Arrested Yesterday
SCRANTON. Ta., Sept 15. Two hundred
and sixty-three jnembers of the Industrial
Workers of the World, arrested by Sheriff
Phillips and State troopers at Old Forge
yesterday, are being arraigned before alder
men, this afternoon.
Trolley cars were chartered to carry the
prisoners, fifty at a time, to the various
offices. Heavily armed guards were at
both ends ot the cars, and troopers and
speolal deputies were within striking dls.
tance at ajl times to see that no demonstra
tions were made'.
Sheriff Phillips will ask the Magistrates
to hold the leaders under $10,000 ball each
and to hold the others under $6000 each for
the Grand Jury, whleh convenes (his month.
The men are etvarged With Inciting riot, con
spiracy, unlawful assembly, disorderly con
duct and forcible entry, They broke open
the doers of the hall, closed against them,
and wars holding their meeting when the
Sherlcd the troopers surrounded the
building and arrested evrey wan In the
halt
Wtt alsMat aH at J I. W. W. leaders
aaat ar-aj' tn M, Q14 Fwge h4 a
qui 4V tur. - wrtf hum pea
wodktssf It th varteua mOtmim tsa la
ever vk., TV were so piokeU on
the Jo tfcla sMTBtac. TiM wet i U a
that saj UM mUU. 1 (k faiHMjr Ml.
QUICK NEWS
STEAMSHIP AND TWO BARGES IN COLLISION
BOSTON, Sept. 15. Tho steamship Gloucester, of the Merchant
and Miners' Transportation Company, bound from. Baltimore to Bos
ton, was In collision with two coa barges In Vliieyard Sound today
and a panic was narrowly averted nmong tho sevonty-slx passengers
on boird. Tho boats are snld to have crashed together In a dtn&e fog.
One of the barges was beached on Kaushou Island to save It from
being sunk. As far as known, no lives wore lost and the Gloucester
proceeded to Boston under her own power. The barges were bound
for Philadelphia.
tSZJSKb..
KAISER AND HINDENBURG TO OPEN REICHSTAG
LONDON, Sept. 15. Emperor William and Field Marshal von
Hindcnburgj sayo a press dispatch from Geneva, will open the German
Reichstag session on September 28.
PHILS' GAME NOT OFF YET
Realizing the great Importance of today's game, Manager Moran,
of the Phillies, refused to call off tlio game at 3 o'clock, despite the
downpour of ran and getting tho consent of Manager Hugglns, of
the Cardinals, and the umpires, it was decided to wait until 4 o'clock
before calling the contest off. If the game is called off It canuot be
replayed as St. Louis is not scheduled to play hero ngaln this season,
and the Thlllles need each game.
INTERCOLLEGIATE TENNIS MATCHES POSTPONED
HAVERFORD, Pa., Sept. 15. Rain caused a postponement of the
intercollegiate tennis matches scheduled to be played on the Merlon
courtst oday.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Havre de Grace race, fillies and geldings, 2-year-olds, 5
furlongs Fairy Wand, 107, Troxler, $3.80, $3.30, ?2.50, won; Spec
tre, 107, Davies, $4.70, $3.80, second; Hynnns, US, Haynes, 3.40,
thlrd. Time, 1.01 1-5.
PBICE ONE CENT
MILLIONS MADE
IN WILD TRADING
ON WALL STREET
Morgan, Rockefeller and du
Pont Stocks Go to Daz-
zling Height
BROKERS IN A FRENZY
Vast Profits Realized In Twink
ling Excitement on
Curb
TUG LEAVES BOST.ON TO CONVOY GERMAN SUBMARINE
BOSTON, Sept. 15. It has been learned on good authority that a tug left
Boston early today to net as a convoy for a. German "submarine merchantman re
ported about three hundred miles cost pf Nantucket and which Is believed to bo
headed for New London or possibly Boston. It was reported today that tho Boston
Towbont Company had received a wireless message from the submarine nnd dis
patched a tug to pilot the German boat.
$25 EXTRA DIVIDEND EOR VICTOR TALKING MACHINE CO.
The Victor Talking Machine Company has declared nn extra dividend of $25
a share on the 'common stool: li addition to the regular quarterly dividend of (5
a share. The reaUInr quarterly dlttrlbutlon of $1.70 a share ajso has i been ordered
on the preferred stock. All. the dividends will bo paid October 14 to holders of
record September SO. Threo months ngo the company declared only tho usu
dividends on tho stockB. In April It paid $25 extra on tho common nnd In January
a special ensh payment of $10 a share was made.
SUFFRAGE WINS IN BRITISH COLUMBIA; RUM LOSES
VANCOUVER, B, C, Sept. 13 Almost complete returns from yesterday's elec
tion assures the adoption of prohibition and woman suffrage In British Columbia.
The Liberals won an overwhelming victory and will control the next Legislature
330 to 14.
EXPRESS COMPANIES' BUSINESS INCREASES 500 PER CENT
WASHINGTON, Sept. 16. Tho Interstate Commerce Commission today nn
nounced that earnings of tho principal express companies Increased more than
five hundred per cent for the eleven months ending May 30 abovo tho amount for
the eleven months ending May 30, 1815. Net revenues totaled $9,946,422, as com
pared with $1,705,396 a year ago. Gross revenues totaled $82,865,612, as compared
with $68,402,163 a year ago. No explanation or the Increase was given.
PRICES HAVE GONE UP 36 PER CENT SINCE AVAR STARTED
NEW YOHK, Sept. 15. Commodity prices In the United States have Increased
thirty-six per cent since tho start of the European war, according to figures Issued
by Brndstreet's today. A new high record for Bradstreet's Index figures, formed
by adding tho totals of prices per pound of ninety-six articles, was established In
September. The record Is $11.7853. The July, 1914, index was $8.6566. The index
flguro Is based on prices of foods, textiles, metals, chemicals, fuel and a wide range
ot commodities. . --
VILLA PLANS HOLIDAY ATTACK ON CHIHUAHUA CITY
WASHINGTON, Sept. 15. Official dispatches to the Stato Department today
confirmed reports that Krnnclsco Villa was preparing to attack Chihuahua Clty'to
morrow, n Mexican holiday.
OFFICERS OF MEMPHIS MAY FACE COURT-MARTIAL
WASHINGTON, Sopt. 15. Confidential naval reports, said to disclose derelic
tion of duty upon the part of officers In connection with the wrecking of the .United
States cruiser Memphis by a tidal wave at San Domingo city, were taken under
consideration by Secretary of the Navy Daniels and the general board ot tho navy.
Hints that courts-martial may grow out of the conference were persistent. Positive
proof that the Memphis could have ridden over thp wave and out to the open sea.
It she had had steam up, like the Castlne, which was nearby, was presented.
COUNSELLOR TORPEDOED, PHILADELPHIA MAN SWEARS
LONDON, Sept. 16, Krank Calllngham, of Philadelphia, a fireman aboard the
Harrison liner Counsellor, made an affidavit before the United States Consul at
Queenstown that the Counsellor was torpedoed. (A London dispatch last night
reported that the Counsellor was ''sunk" nnd that her crew was saved, but" nothing
was reported about the circumstances of tho sinking. The Counsellor was last
reported as having sailed from Colon, Panama, August 27 or route from Vancouver
for Liverpool, She probably was punk near tho British Isles. Tho Counsellor dis
placed 4958 tons and was 400 feet long. She was ownJ by the Charente Steamship
Company and registered at Liverpool.)
NEW YOHK. Sept. 15.- The Morgan.
Rockefeller and du Pont groups of finan
ciers have reaped millions In Increased vat '
uatlon ot their holdings In the present
boom on the Stock Exchange, according to
estimates in Wall atreet today. Steel, oil
and motor stocks have been leaders in the
wild rush of speculation, which recordod
one million share day a.fter another and
sent prices to high records on many suc
cessive days.
The boom started In the "Morgan group,"
and It Is common talk on the Street Mat
a bullish sentiment was desired In order'
to facilitate the notation of the recent Dilt- I
Ish loan. As tho upward movement vra f
getting under way, Maine election returns ,
were Injected Into the situation and a price
movement followed, described as slmllat
to the boom which started when Art.'. r-
turns Indicated McKlnley's election la'
1896.
STOCKS RUSH UPWARD
United State Steel climbed to a record
of 107 a .share, a figure which was dupli
cated today. General Motors shot upward
at a $50a-day rate to $750 a share and was
but slightly under that figure today. On
the curb the various Standard Oil stocks
have been skyrocketing, Sthndard Oil -of
Indiana, Ohio OH and Prairie Oil and Gas
selling up nearly a hundred points during
the course of the movement These three
groups represent In order the Interests ot
Morgan, du Pont and Rockefeller.
International Mercantile Idarlne, another
Morgan Interest, which, with United States
Steel common, form the two greatest mer
gers ever made In this country, has been
another of the leaders In tho present move
ment, common selling from fifty cents to
$60.75 and preferred from $3 to. $125.25 In
a little moro than a year,
Identified with the du Pont Interests ,are
twq other groups known as Jhe Kautmann
and he Chatham-Phoenix bank group. Gen
eral Motors, Chevrolet Motors and, United
Motors, by their advances, have enriched
these men by millions. Almost unnoticed
General Motors new stock appeared on the
curb market, selling for future delivery
"when aA and It Issued" and Jumped front
$125 to $160 a share.
It is on the curb that the little fellows
Continued on I'Kte Thirteen, Column One
KRUSENT0ASK
$75,000 TO COVER
PLAGUE EXPENSE
Unprecedented Obligation!
Have Exhausted Health
Department's Funds
WORST IS NOW OVER
FORD READY TO CUT $860,000 MELON FOR EMPLOYES
DETROIT. Bept, 15. Tho Ford Motor Company has announced that payment
of the annual bonus usually made nt Christmas time will be distributed at once.
In the aggregate $860,000 will go to employes as a reward for services and results
obtained In the year,
U, S. PAYS $7,000,000 ROiV.!...- s v INDIAN TRIBES
WASHINGTON, Sept., 15. A report by the Department of the Interior ahows
the GeverwHent has official care ot more than 300,090 Indiana, In the present fnenth,
more than $7,000,000 In per capita payments is being distributed to the ChoeUw,
Chickasaw and Seminole tribe alone tut royalties on their lands,
CLEAKS'SIOO.QOO ON $1500 IN GENERAL MOTORS
NRW YOHK, Sept. 16, From an original investment oi $1500 a Wall strwt
speculator today collected a pront ot $1M.&M in General Motors, sld to be the
largest profit ever roaae in a single tranacatton .oh the New Yerk Steele BUchsisa,
NICARAGUA GUTS TIME LIMIT FOR SALVADOR R1PLY
PAN SALVADOR, RapuWIc e Uv4r. Beet. 1$. T CfcutMi AaMfieu Court
of Justice a tv tbe Ntcarasuaa 0vrnment sixty dys o ready ta Um etajsn
ot tlM IMuMk ot sMlvastor concrnlW tb tretty between th UttHsst ft m
tMeswu lor the tHabHshjaent of 4 United ! kg rum a J.
MvkM rich) wm mtniigti to tew has HWmH, !
A $75,000 appropriation to be used la
the fight against Infantile paralysis wlH
be asked of Councils on Thursday, Di
rector Krusen, of the Department ot Pub
IIq Health and Charities, announced to(Jsy,
Unprecedented expenses during the epi
demic have created a deficit In funds, he -said.
The Philadelphia Hospital tor Con
tagious Diseases and the Division of Child
Hygiene are to be the beneficiaries of the
appropriation.
'The expenses of the last few months
have exceeded those of any previous similar
period," Director Krusen said. "For ex
ample. In August, 1916, 415 cases .were ad
mitted to the Philadelphia Hospital for Con
tagious Diseases, whereas In August,, 1915,
94 cases were admitted. The volume of
business Is the greatest since the hospital
was established, with the result that we
are now utilizing funds that ordinarily
would not be touched until November or
December."
WORST NOW OVER
No .new casea or deaths were reported
up to noon today, bearing out the health
officials' statements that the worst ! over1.
Institutions taking part la the care f
convalescents will meet late thU aKrnee
at Director Krusen's office to dteotiM treat
ment ot convalescents. Mrs. J, Wttlie Mar
tin wU represent the emergeney sU com
mittee and representatives will be pfesewt
from the Orthoped'c, University, Jefferson, -Providence
General, Frankferd a'nd epis
copal Hospitals and the Mary J, Dreiel
Heme. The Osteopathic MtpUal was a4
ed to the list ot these earing far neinayt
lesceats. vt,
HI. AVE BAD UOUMitta
Bad luHwtfix oneH, ;ia, :
this etty, are given. m e
Phllaiiefethki. h ,'ssjsre Mum ktf th tax
fanUle paralysis tH l Veejay
ylvania. Br; hmm1' O.
Health Corswlnlensr. saakea the eterfSA,
Dootor Duett mM the dtoeaee
was fcu4 In thWi)y
where lMisMwr
aroSaaHy" c tfcta etty to N Tortt av4
Ww Jisesy. vejMM saw real hie rules sjaf
a rMMsJT srtiirlill. Is aettr
ymtdel an htl many
krte. aooassnag to Doator Olson.
A lull asvsM teeter to the oo trovers?
twM tta fMa I
r
m
M
