THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Early showers to-day, then fair and
cooler; to-morrow fair and cool.
Highest temperature yesterday, 85; lowest, 64.
Demited weather, mall and mnrlne reports on pact to.
IT SHINES FOR. ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 15.'
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1916. Convent, 1916, by the fltin Priming and VubXUMttg .association.
ONE CENT
In flreatrr New York,
Jersey C'llr and irk,
Kl.etrher
IIK) CKNTtl
FRENCH STORM
FARM BARRING
COMBLES ROAD
Cajiluro by Assault 1'ositton
ItVjrarded s Key to
Town.
IilMTISII PKESS IX
FROM TIIK NORTH
Two Winrs of Armies Are
Now Working Around tlie
Teuton Stronghold.
DASHING ATTACKS
sntl'HISK TO FOE
rriMtiiers Say Rapidity of
IJoucliavesnes Assault
Prevented Defence.
Paw.". Sept. H. Ift nlRlit and to
dty the nipper nf the Allies squeezed
Ct'tnlile still more tightly. Halg's
ltri-li.li troops to the north and Koch's
l"rfnch to the south of the doomed
tA ii wont forward again nd the Ger
m.ins cave way before them. The hat
t ' nf the Sommc la neuring a decisive
I, cc
The French In another of their quick
f i knocked an Important prop
l"m under the Herman stronghold
d'jnr.R the thy. They stormed I.e
ltlcz farm, southeast of Combles,
which the Germans had fortified as a
.rone point of support, bayoneting
n.l bombing Its defender and occupy
ing the whole position.
Thu another Haw wan pushed for
rd tn threaten Combles. From the
Mptured (arm the French guns can fire
!i!"t due west Into Combles. and the
firtlict French advance south Is placet)
a line with the furthest Drltlnh ad
v.nre north, at l.eu7.e wood.
llMiicniirl Closely Pressed,-
By the same stmke Comble l cut off
f'on direct communication with Kan-
" The Fiench troop... which took I.e
1 i'i firm crossed the road that con
rot ilie two tnwiiK. The Germans In
rii.cmirt alo .tie beginning to feel the
l of the nippers, for while French
r triune gun from the notthetn and
Iti .ides of I.e Prlez rake, Combles,
I ii tbe south and east they can en-
vie K.incourt. J.e Prlez Is a wedge be
t r dmblrs unit Kancourt.
I"ew .if the Mlltinnrta nf rv.mt.1
'1 In Gciman hand. Ij, iri
...!. F.iirt'iuont farm. Rouleaux
T ' '''I' . "II are In the hands of the
' 'if the eight toml lending Into
1 t'.i hut two are held ur con-
' ' I the Allies. All of Its railroad
f ' t little over a mile Is now behind
I IP ur French line-, The capture
II l. unlc- seems assured.
HrllUli Ktlentl Line.
Hh urt of the squeeze was an
. '.01 til of lilllt-liv wlilel,
.1
"-r ti.nl ;uiil holpeil consolidate anil
' "ie Itnllsh claw of the nippers.
' ' " '.tightened out a small salient
Hrltish line from the Uelvllle
1 1 'f Ginchy.
', the operations the allied lines
west of fombles were pushed
1 i .t.l "ttl.-tantl.tlly nearer to the town.
" 'he Rouleaux wood and east of
l te '.!.' f.inn Krltlsh and French
1 ' I muit. of (he German trenches,
1 a It.-t r to the town. To do more
1 "i.bhle until the nippers have
if. ... hunter would be too costlv In
I ami munitions, for Combles Is" too
' ' k 'ii be taken by frontal attack ex-
a exorbitant cost,
D.i ib ,e whole twenty-four hours
J '! Hrltlsh on the Komme, the
I e ii i specially, were attacked re
I hIIv by strong German forces. The
iset of these attacks waa led by a
f reh German division, hastily
' fene. horn Verdun In an effort to
in 'he victorious French. This dlvl-
" i tried several times to swarm up the
i li'-rn slope of Hill 76. northwest of
J and each time the Germans
thrown back,
Company Annihilated.
"tith of the Somme the Hermans came
t .e attack several times at various
I i.nt Kach attack was fruitless, and
''Vile company was practically wiped
'' r.y aitillery Mrs from the French new
li.nrhes west of Chaulnes,
The French dash upon I.e Prlez farm
t-ii was as sudden and rapid as the
tuck on Tuesday and Wednesday,
men reaped such a substantial reward
J' . "ml Kiound gained. According to
, 1 dnrlrtlon of an eyewitness who
thoe attacks the Germans were
'Hfn completely by surprise.
'h attack," he said, "began at 12:3n
i M in perfect order. The offlcers had
I "'illy holding their men, home of
J1 loin started even before the appointed
J n In a few minutes the first objec
' ta. rarrbd and a few minutes later
J" i arrived that the Kerllngot
' T.rh w.n already occupied. Then In-
Lr7,","n of ,llr,her came In fast
efl the observers saw a stream of sur
I'lnerirg Hermans running toward the
' n llnfs,
Many of the Germans who surien
y "I were hit by the curtain Are of their
M'lllfiy. Most of them wero troops
"ii,,,,! iccently arrived from the Ver
1 front Tint prisoners declared that
ia".!n ,hfy '"I'"'''"''' tlie attack the
j-M-im with which It was tlcllveied
Hum by surprise. They said that
, ,en .y snr0, to ,.ome from ,1(r
.'.ir they found the French troops
lrtJ- In the trenches.
Ailnfora Aid Attack.
'Tn fjemians seem to have suffered
'"v heavy losses from the preliminary
rombar.lnient alone. A captain said
'" bis company lost more than half lis
wec'ie during this bombardment.
n tooidinatlon between the artillery
Coniinu4 on iteotd Jv.
Koi-cmon and DciiHi'tiiiciit
n...i ..... ....
jh-hiw nwnvp "f.vpros-
sion of (lood Will."
DsriiotT, Mich. Pept. H. A bonus of.
IS."iO,Ono, an annual melon usually cut at
Christmas time, waa distributed Wcdnes-
day among the 1,399 foremen and depart-'
merit heads of the Ford Motor Company '
os meir reward ror service and results
obtained throughout the vear. An official
of the company explained that It was an I
"expression of good will" on the part of
the directors.
Kach nun who shares In thlt bonus
will receive from linn to ll.noo as n re-.
ward ror his length of service, eltlclency
ami usefulness to the company. Lust ,.,,,, h .,, ,, K- t.
ear at Christmas time l-so.ooa was dls- ' ?ul a ' rBV,,lh- who CH
trlbuted In this manner. The bonus wnm"1'"8 "' l'-ngland and France studying
divided thus early because of the chnng- conditions resulting from the great war,1
Ing of the close of the company's fiscal I returned last evening by the American
year from October 31 to July 31. ..., .. . . ' .
or tlie 1,399 men who will share In i ......".,..."""--Is
melon. 231 are In branch offices and ' vntlons hatt "completely revolutionized
this
factories, 1 (10 In the main ofllce and the.
remainder In the main shops
EX-CHIEF OF POLICE
SHOT; WIFE IS HELD'
L. II. Kosler of Atlantic High
lands Dying of Six Wounds
After Struggle in Home.
Lewis H. Foster, formerly chief
ivollre of Atlantic Highlands, N.
uf I
. I
'-.
was shot six tlmco and probably fatally nrmles that lost the battle of the Marne
wounded last night at his home. Central ,wo r greatly Inferior forces.
. .... ... in. ..if. i when every advantage was In their favor.
and Hay lew avenues. Ills w Ife. who ' uinllf) )ow wl wh(ii ,,,.,,. ,,'
la said to have been Jealous of him. was highly organized forces, arc facing them
placed under airest shortly after the 1 on every front.
shooting. "The question which Is on every Hp la.
Foster was rushed to the Ixing Ilrnnch How long wilt the war last? The men
Hospital, a trip of alMiut twelve miles, by who are In best position to say tlo not
automobile. He was sal. I to be In a dy- hazard an opinion except as to Its tnliil
Ing condition when he left Atlantic mum duration. I am convinced that one
Highlands. I element Is wholly eliminated nnd that Is
The shutting took place at II o'clock, .the possibility of the war en. ling su.l
Passerfcby beaid the fix shots. Iletween dcnly or soon In a peace based on a
them they .could liear the agonized compromise or an acceptance bv the
screams of a man, apparently pleading J
i or mercy.
An Itwtant liter Carl, the len-rm-old
son of the Fosters, ran from the
front door In terrir. Ills statement has
been taken by Chief of Police Snedekcr
Mrs. Foster was said to hae taken
poison, but this could not be verified
owing to the strict secrecy with which
the police guarded the circumstance I
of the shooting. It waa said she had t
been placed under pollee guard In her
home.
The Fosters are well known In At
lantic Highlands. They have two other
kohi, Frank and Lewis, Jr., but they
lire not living at home.
BULGARS AND TURKS
SEEK TEUTON HELP
Knver Pasha Worried by Pos
sibility of Rumanian Drive
to Southward.
c.ul ('.. Dnpate, lu Tiir Si.
I.0ND0N, Sept. IT.. Itulxarla and Tur
key ate badly In need of help from Ger
many and Austria because of the entry
of Kumanla Into the wat. That Is why
Knver Pasha, the Turkish Minister of
War, and King Fenllnnnd of Kulgaiia
are conferring with the Kaiser and Von
lllndenburg at headquarters on the east
ern front, accoiding t' n despatch from
the correspondent of the Daily Ksprcsi ment of the war, always excepting the
at Geneva, who bases his message upon victory of tile Allies In Hi, luittlc nf the
Iludapest despatches. , I Marne, which still remains the miracle
These despatches say that Knver and (of the wnr.
King Ferdinand pointed out to the tier- "We are apt to forget that before con.
man and Austrian leaders that If ftul-' scrlptlon came almost in per cent, of
garta were attacked on the north by a the available men of England, Waltn,
large Russo-ltumanlan army she would Scotland nnd I'lster had already volun
be forced to evacuate Greek Macedonia leered. F.ngland has assembled, tialneil,
and the whole Salonlca front before equipped antl otllccied a volunteer army
(Jen. Sarrall's allied army. Knver sug- 'of nboiit four million men, No one who
gested to the Kaiser that the Turkish b"" for himself can form any
forces sent recently to the Itua'lan 1 conception of the gigantic propoitlons of
front should return to aid the Uul- '" Ktigland has done In two
garlans, for If the Hulgars were de- )'"" by the voltinlaiy action of her pen.
feated Turkey would be Uolated and P' wl"lt " lia uk,, Germany anil
surrounded France two generations to accomplish
This correspondent says Austria has u'l,11' ''10!,t drustle measiiies ,,f ron
promlsed guns but no men to aid her ."Tiptlnii utitl organization
southern allies, but the answer of tier- , "l-.nglnnU has been turned Into H verl-
nianv ia unknown. A wireless nress
despatch from Home says, however, that
the general council mapped out an
offensive campaign in the Balkans 10
which Germany Is to contribute 200,000
and Austria 100,000 men,
RUMANIAN ENVOY HOSTAGE.
Will I.eaTe Germany Only When
ncharest Aannanrea Plana.
Berlin, via London, Sept. 14. The I
Rumanian Minister to Germany, Dr.
Reldlman, will leave Berlin soon for
' Denmark, where he will take up his.
residence, It was announced to-day,
How many Rumanian pilvate citizens !
now In Germany will be permitted to
accompany the Minister has not yet been'
determined, nor wilt this be settled until
It Is ascertained how many Germans
and Austrlans were allowed to leave
I Bucharest with the Mlnlsteis of those
I countries.
1 The date of Dr. Reldlman's departure
will be settled definitely as soon as the
negotiations now under way concerning
the departure from Kumanla of non-
official Germans are concluded.
1918 FOREIGN TRADE JUMPS.
M,:il)4,(HD,f4N Vnlue nf Kspnrts
and Imports In Seven Months,
Washington, Sept 15 An Increase
of nearly one-thlrd In Imports and ex
ports of the United States from January
1 to August 1 of this year over the samo
nni'ltul laat veur is shown hv Hiriiri.u
made public 'to-day by the Department
of Commerce,
The aggregate value of exports and
Import In the first seven months of this
year waa 4J.39 l.n n.; g. In tint flint
seven months of 1915 the value vvmh
979,111, 75. The Increase for the 191fi
period Is 11,414,709,181,
These figures show that the exports
were twice as valuable as the Imports.
The exports were $:,92S,:J1,J72. while
the Imports were 11,467.(19,574. In
1116 exports were worth I1,970,I7T,IT
and to UopocU V1.009.0S Mil.
,.,, i, rvaVtltu oin if tor
Trip to Wnr Zone, Donics
"Neutrality of Spirit."
l-'J X S
FRENCH CORDIAL
Docliircs, Howovpr, TliHt llrit-
Ish IVople Rcspiit Wilson's
Attitude.
his conceptions of the magnitude of the
j nchlexcmcntH of the French and Kngllsh
nations In the war and of the Issues at
stake not only for them but for us In
America."
Mr. Cravath said he had come home
convinced of the ultimate victory of the
Allies.
"The entrance tt ftnmnnt.i Into the
war," he said, "was accepted In London
and Paris Irjs as an Important military
event than as a gratifying acknowledg
ment by the best Informed observer In
Kurope that the tlefent of the Central
Powers was a moral certainty, for Ku
mania had finukly delayed action until
she could feel certain of the outcome.
"It now t-eem to mo as certain as
human affairs can be that the Getm.iu
Allien of the conditions existing prior to
the war.
The
Allies' Programme.
"The Governments of Istth F.ngl.ind
and France have already commuted
themselves to a definition of the term
conclusive peace,' which lnvoles not
only the liberation and Indemnity of
Helglum and Serbia and the restoration
of Alsace and lirralne to France, but
also the assurance of an enduring peace
oy ine obstruction of Prussian mili
tarism. Nothing short of such a peace I
wilt I accepte.t by France and Kng
land i
".Manifestly the duration of the war I
will be measured by Germany's abitltv
and willingness to reslt the economic'
and military presmre to which she will
be uhjerteri with ever Increasing force
Few with whom I talked expe.t Ger
many Income to the .Miles' terms within
a mm r and the Governments of England
and France make no concealment of the
fact that they are making their prepara
tions on the assumption that the war .
may lat even longer. '
"We in America have no adequate
conception ot the magnitude of Kng-
land a achievements In the war. The ap
, peal of France has been so simple and
direct that one's sniMthy and admira
tion could not go astray, but we have
I heard so much of Ilngland'e mistakes
and eli.irtcomiiiKs that wu have lost sKit
j of the real greatness of her achieve
ment. KiiKlaml'a Achievement.
"By common consent among the Allies
the creation of Kngland's volunteer armv
with the mobilization of the Industrie's
of the nation for the support of that
nrmy l the most marvellous achieve.
"" nit. monit-i ate every
where. To etiulp und munition this armv
there ate over four thousand factories
operated by the Government or under
Its control, many of them built since the
beginning of the war. At least two
million people are engaged In the maiiu-
facture of munitions and In other activi
ties directly connected with the war.
Since the outbreak of the war the pio
Iductlon of munitions lu F.ngland has
been multiplied at least tlftyfold.
lllea Lend In Prntlnctlnn.
"While of course no tellable statistics
as to the quantity of munitions pro.
tliiced by the Central Powers are avail
able It Is believed that their production
Is now equalled and will soon be e.
cetded by the Allies.
"But I think the most remarkable
thing of all Is that notwithstanding the
transfer of between siv and seven mill-
Ions or the populstlon to the army and
navy and activities solely connected
with the war, the other activities of
Knilantl ate continued with sutpiMmily
Hill diminution of efllciency The cmps
am ocini mn"i"i an usuai, ine snip
cards on the Clyde were never so busy,
Your boots suit Hollies are made as
well mill almost as promptly us ever.
Knglatid's commerce and exports mens,
nted In money vnlue nrn itlmost as
great its before the war,
"III two yen in fviigland has spent
over nine billion dollar on liei own
prcpiiilloii'. mi. I loaned about four bill.
Ions more to her iiIUch nod colonic.
After allowing for all the blunders and
delay this gigantic mobilization of H.
eneiglea of 11 nation ha been iiccnni
plislicd wllh n pmmptiicHs ami a uni
versality or sactitice nun service for
wlil'h Jilxlory affords no parallel
Women llo Men's Work,
"The women of Kngliiud have been
wonderful. Hundred of thousands of
them of all rank are lining work whlih
In normal times Is done by men, A, 111.11
every woman onn meetH ha some kind
of a 'war Job,' and the most Inspiring
part of It all Is that one never hears a
complaint or a whimper at the sacrifices
of life and wealth and romfort which
CMliitwd on rowrth Pogt.
PENNSYLVANIA BEATS
RECORD FOR GUNNERY
Latest Drendnouplit Made Kivoj
Hits on Invisible
Target.
Washington, Sept. 14. A new
world's record In naval gunnery has
been made by the new supcrdread
nought Pennsylvania, the Navy Depart
ment announced to-night. Credit for
the feat Is given to the big battleship's
twelve 14 Inch rifles, mounted as a
main battery In four turrets, which on
a simultaneous discharge In a lecent
trial registered five hits on a small tar
get eleven miles away. At the distance
a target Is not visible to the gunners.
Itecords of the highest scores ever
made tinder similar circumstances have
been examined by naval ottlcers, but
none equalling that of the Pennsylvania
has been found.
The Pennsylvania ft the first vessel
to have Its entire main battel y mounted
three guns to a turret, and her per
formance Is declared by ordnance and
construction officers to be the final an
swer to critics opposing the three gun
turret system.
The Pennsylvania arrived at the New
York Navy Yard yesterday under sealed
ot ders.
423 SAVED AT NIGHT
FROM BURNING SHIP
Passengers and Crew Taken
Off Pacific Coast Liner
Ablaze Amidships.
Marsh mt.n, Ore., ffept. H. Klre to
night completely destroyed the Pacific
Coast Company's big liner Congress two
miles off Coos Kay bar. Several ves
sels which rushed to her assistance In
l esponc to distress calls, helped remive
her 153 passengers ar.d crew of 170,
No lives weer Inst. It was established,
when all bo its which went to the cene
hail leached here,
When the dredge Mlchle and the gaso
lene schooner Tillamook reached the Con
gress they found the liner almost com.
pletely shrouded In smoke, and the pas
sengers fighting frantically to enter the
lifeboats. Despite the stress of the
situation, however, dpt. N E. Cousins
and his crew managed to maintain con
trol nnd the work of transferring the
passengers aboard to the rescue vessels
was carried out lu an orderly manner.
Ilefore the last boatload. In which was
Capt. Cousins, left the Congress the
smoke and beat were almost unbear
able. Flames were shooting out of the
ship's ventilators and up the passage
ways. Soon afterward the flames enveloped
her from stem to stem, lighting the sky
to a crimson hue. With the wind and
tide the steamer then began drifting In
tow ant the spit of Coos II.15
The fire was discovered about .1 P. M
near the second hold in the steerage
cabin. No wortl was received from the
Congress, however, regarding the tire un
til nearly 4 o'clock. At that time the
vessel was running for Coos Hay, She
came to a stop off the bay bar at '3',
and the 1'nlted States army dredge
Mlchle, whit 11 has several rescues to her
credit, soon was at the scene, iloat)
were lowered at once
The gasolene schooner TIII.nno.ik ar
rived Just before the last of the passen
gers were removed fruui the forward
deck of the Congress, where watchers
on shore could see tlames shooting as
night fell, obscuilng the burning csel
from sight
The Congress, which was built In 191.1
at Camden, N. .! . at n cot of 11,25(1,0"".
was a steel steamship of T,'.'v5 tons, 4!t
feet long and 55 feet broad. She was
the finest vessel on the run between San
Francisco and Seattle.
CHIEF PUTS OUT B'WAY FIRE.
All Alone Angnaln lloaa nvra iy
SuhvT- With Knrrplniis.
File Chief F. S Reynolds of Auguta.
Ga , veteran of the t event f. 1.000, nun flie
which swept that city, single handed at
tacked a ilaiigeious fire last night on
llioadway ut Twenty-sixth stieet, The
fire was caused by the shoit clicult of
electllc cables In the open subway exca
vation and the Chief with the contents of
two rubbish cans extinguished the flames
while buudieds looked on,
Chief Reynolds was on his way im
town after a call on Fire Commissioner
Ailamson, who Is also from Augusta. At
Twenty-fourth street he heatd an ex
plosion at Twenty. sIMli street nnd saw
an unusual electric display, such as ac
companies a short circuit of high tension
vvltes. As be pushed his way Into the
excavation, a second explosion splatteied
molten copper and sparks over him. He
sent his chauffeur to the Kdisnn company
to shut off the current while he looked
around for sand to smother the tlames.
lie found two cans containing street
sweepings and with these extinguished
the flames.
Crowds attracted by the explosions
blocked Broadway while the Chief
worked.
2 BRITISH GENERALS KILLED.
Clifford and Phlllpotts Had Won
High Honors.
I.no,, Sept It Two Brigadier
Generals have I. eon killed in artlon, ac
cording to the latest casualty lists Is
sued tn-nlght -Henry I'redeilck Hush
Clifford and Louis Murray Phlllpotts,
Hrlg.-Gen. Clifford of the Suffolk Reg
iment was born In ISH" and entered t ho
army In 1SSB. lie served In the South
African war, In which he wits awarded
the ljucen's medal and the King' medal,
two clasps. He was made a temporary
llrlgiidler-deneral In June of last year.
During the ptcsent war he had been
awarded the distinguished service order
medal.
Ililg.-Gen, Phlllpotts of the Itojal Ar
tillery was born In Sn und also had
served In the South Aft lent war, where
he w.ih given tin. ijueen's mtdul, the ills,
llngulsheil service order and was men
tinned In ilcspalche. In the luescnt war
lie also ha been mentioned In tics
patches. He was made 11 llilgailler
Geiieral In October of last year.
President's Sister Falling; Fast,
Nkw Lonpon, Conn., Kept, 11. Mrs.
Anno Howe, President Wilson's slater
who Is gravely III here, "ha failed
steadily to-day," according to an an
nouncement at t o'clock to-night by
her phyilclarij Dr. K. If. Ihm.
ROOSEVELT ASKED
TO TOUR FAR WEST
Certain to Visit Middle States
and He May do On to
Pacific Coast.
CALIFORNIA WANTS HIM
Taft Also Will Make Series of
Speeches in tlie Doubtful
Central Section.
Col, Theodore Roosevelt Is considering- j
a plan laid before him yesterday by Kc-
publican leaders of a campaign trip that
will take him as far west as the Pacific I
coast.
It will be a week or more before a
definite decision H arrived at regarding
this matter, depending largely on the!
political exigencies that develop as a re
sult of some Investigations now being
made. An alternative proposition being
discussed Is for the Colonel to make
stops through the Middle States, swinging
up for one or more speeches In the
Northwest and coming back by way of
1 Missouri and Kentucky.
Indications yesterday seemed to favor
1 the Pacific coast trip. It la the Call-
fornla situation which Is likely to take
Col. Roosevelt therk. Republicans have
not any doubt that California Is a Re
publican State this year. Nevertheless,'
there Is a feeling that a visit there by
Col. Roosevelt to speak In advocacy ot
Hiram Johnson's election to the Senate'
on the Republican ticket would have a
mighty good effect on Progressives.
CSar. Johnson la Ilarsaoay.
There have been reports thst Johnson
I had been feeling aggrieved since the
I Huithea trip through the State because
of some kind words Mr. Hughes said re
I gardlng the "regular" crowd there op-
posing him. the Progressive, In the pri
maries. Since then, however, assurances'
1 have come that Gov. Johnson Is working
for the whole ticket. Hut the Democrats
I ever since this Incident have been making
I loud claims to California and have been
I Industriously circulating the reports nf
I Progressive disaffection In neighboring,
'States as well. It Is the feeling that a'
I trip to California by Col. Roosevelt would
easily overcome that.
I Appeals for Col, Roosevelt's presence
j In many parts of the country continue to
I pour Into Republican headquarters here.
They have multiplied since the Maine
I result, many believing the Colonel
I cinched Republican chances there by his
I I.ewlston speech. More than twenty big
j cities have put In a bid for Roosevelt
Col Roosevelt, who spent eiterday
conferring with friends at bis ofllce In
I the Century Club, seeing Republican
I Chairman Wlllcox among others. Is still
under the Impression that anything like
' a real campaign trip on his part might
detract from .Mr Hughes's trips or lt
construed by some as a desire on his
part to vie with the candidate for spot-
1 light honors.
I
I Only In nonhtfnl Mates.
In accordance with his own wishes. If
j he goes to the Pacific coast the trip will
I be made on recular trains, with stops
only at Important cities 'n doubtful
States. Colorado l one of these, and
there have been Insistent demands for a
Denver speech, tine speech or more
would also be made In Nebraska and at
least one In Missouri Hut even travel
ling on lenulur trains those familiar
with the Roosevelt plan of campaigning
know that a changtt of engines would
offer vnte getting possibilities which
Roosevelt would not let go by
That Col, Roosevelt Intends to let no
opportunity ecnpe to congratulate those
I Progressives who come out on top
1 hi Republican primaries was Indicated
I yeeier.my 111 a telegram n ilespatcheil
to Senator Polndexter, victor In the
Washington primaries, It read
"Heartiest congratulations on your
splendid victory. Hiram Johnson's 'sue
1 1 rrn .tin. me ir-iiu in .Maine BTO Cer
tainly good omens."
j Ilellevea Party Branded.
Conferences which Col Roosevelt had
yesterday In this city with Chairman
Wlllcox. George W Perkins, Charles .1 1
Bonaparte and others developed the fact
that Roosevelt's whole heart Is In the,
fight and that he Is thoroughly convinced
that the party Is practically reunited
Hut he believes that some hard work
must be done, particularly In the Mid- '
, die and Western States In combating
the "Wilson kept us out of the war" sen- 1
1 1 men t
Hnlbert P Gardiner, the Progressive
, nntlminl cnminltt ..ma , frn,,. tl.i... ut. I
..in, lie, nun
I several other Maine Progressives, called
10 congratulate t 01, itnosevelt on the re-
suit In Maine. They attributed the vie '
tnry lo his Lewlston speech, Lawrence I
! Abbot. Cornelius N. Bliss, Jr treasurer!
1 of the Republican campaign; Robert'
1 Karon, candidate for Senator, and '
Charles J. Ronaparte had luncheon with '
1-01 icooseven at ine century Club,
Taft Also on tnmp.
Wlttl.'iii. lfnornrrl 'Coft .Ln ..in
... n,r., in iiinr
the stump 111 October, probably In the
Middle State. Taft sent a message to
the Hughes College League declaring- It
in i.e in me utmost importance tnat the
country should have "a consistent and
Intelligible policy, of a constructive and 1
courageous nature, and this could not he '
predicted of a Democratic Admlnlstra-i
tlon,"
Senntor Smoot, who spent an hour I
wiin mt. ungues on Wednesday, con
ferred for a while with Chairman Wlll
cox ye.tterday Mr. Wlllcox afterward
Hald - "I had a delightful tnlk with Sen
ator Smoot, one that was perfectly satis
factory He appeared to be pleased with
the way things were moving and there
wa not the slightest Intimation that he
wanted things changed."
The Republican Congressional com
mittee I planning to carry It work Into
every corner of the country Chairman
riani ttiu.is m itivva sain yesterday,
thai lu orili'i- lo rover the Western .States
headquarter would be opened at Denver, '
WILHE1MSHAVEN IN THE DARK.
Lights Hut" Ordered In Fear nf
lr Raids.
CorrNHAtiKN, via Loudon. Sept. 14.
Drastic restriction with regard to licht.
, ing have been Imposed on Wllhclm.
haven a n ptecnutlonary mcaeure
against air raid.
The Wllheltnshaven Xrituno puhllshea
an order Issued by the fortress com
mander prohibiting lights In streets,
yards and garden and allowing no mora
lights In shop windows than sufficient
to distinguish the goods. All special
UW PWSM va bee;n wJt)jdja.WB.
8,000 CAR STRIKERS PARADE
PEACEABLY TO UNION SQUARE
Police Amazed by Good Order Maintained 100,000
Cheer Marchers Speakers Urge the Men to Stick
Until the Traction Companies Yield.
On a day admittedly critical In the
strike situation, 1,000 striking car men
nnd sympathizers paraded from Park
avenue and Eighty. sixth street to Union
Square without offence to good order
and In perfect good humor.
Their good conduct and restraint at a
time when the fortunes of the contest
appear to be turning against them, when
their jobs are In the balance, Impressed
sidewalk onlookers atfd astonished police
officials. From their standpoint there
was provocation for trouble In that sur
face cars, manned by motormen and con
ductors that had refused to join them or
that had been recruited by strike lire-iking
agencies, constantly crossed the line
of march and appeared In unusual num
ber upon each side of t'nlon Square
while the strikers' mass meeting was In
session. There was some Jeering, al
most good humored, but not the slightest
attempt at violence.
Cheered by 100,000 Onloskers.
The paraders were well received
alt along the four mile line of
march, the sidewalk crowds occa
sionally cheering with real enthusi
asm. It Is Impossible to say Just
how many persons made It their busi
ness to tum out for the encouragement
of the strikers. The police estimate was
100,000 but not more than a tenth of that
number participated In the Union Square
mass meeting, where Representative
Meyer London, William B. Fitzgerald,
strike leader: Hugh Hrayne. American
Federation of I.-thor conference commit
tee chairman , James P. Holland and other
union labor chiefs denounced the attitude
of the transportation lines officials and
renewed, more strongly than ever, their
threat to bring about a general strike
unless Mayor Mltchel and the Tubllo
Service Commission found a way by
Saturday night to effect a peaceable solu
tion of the trouble.
The parade moved from Park avenue,
and F.lghty-slxth street at 11:30 A. M
with Hugh Frajne as grand marshal,
leading his battalions afoot. After
Frayne walked the representatives of
the union labor conference meeting In the
Hotel Continental, officers of the Central
Federated Union, tho Brooklyn Central .
Labor Union and the American Frdeia
tlon of Labor. 1
The United Hebrew Trades were
prominently represented, and the sup
port, moral at least, of union labor gen- 1
erally was Indicated by the presence In
line of oftlclala of the longshoremen, of !
ine teamsters, of the stationary firemen
and half a doien other Important unions.
Six Olsialaaa of Marchers.
The column moved In six divisions, of
which the most Impressive was the turn
out of about 4,500 surface car employees, 1
motormen and conductors of the red,
green and blue car lines lu uniform
The strikers from tne subway and ele
vated, numbering a few mora than 2.000, 1
were not In uniform, but wore their In-'
lerborough badges. The great majority I
of these were made up of subway and
elevated guard and of men from the
Interborough'a mechanical departments. 1
It Is doubtful If fifty bona fide motormen
from the big "long haul" lines walked lu '
the parade.
The car lines of Yonkers and Mount
Vernon, Westchester and The Bronx
were well represented. As a sample of
the defection of surface line employees
the parade was impressive As an at
tempt to show the puhllc that the strike
bill made any notable progress on the
subway and elevated lines the demon
strattou was a fallurn
The marchers carried hundreds of hau
lier and transparencies. A few of the
legend dlsplaed will give a notion of
the point of view of the strikers
"Inveitlsst. nur rseorJs, we sre ut. New
VerJters "
"twtok over thl. pdrsile nn.l rntlrs ths
aliens."
"Shont ta)s the titttnn In cru-he.l now
lmith "
"Shnnt. a the puldle p- of r.nirsr "
SPEECH RESTORED BY SHOCK.
Current From Phone Cures linards
man Made Iltimh by l.iuhtnlnsr.
HARTl'onn, Sept II -Charles S, Ninth
of Rivkvllle, who has been dumb since
a bolt of lightning struck him at the
Connecticut National Guard camp,
Nogales, Aiiz., handed a telephone in-'
Miunient to his father In a llartfoid
railway statlon booth to-day A slight
electric shock passed through him, prob- I
ably from a fault In the Insulation, and '
North's speech was restored by the same
agent that took It away
North was a private In Company A.
First Connecticut Infantry, In one nf
the fierce storms he was struck by
lightning. First aid treatment finally
restored him to conscUsisuess, hut hi
tongue was paralyzed For several da
his life was despaired of, but he finally
recovered, and was Invalided home Hi 1
father met lilm at Hartford and Imme
diately went to the telephone booth to
call up their home at Roekvllle and tell
the news of the arrlwl It was when
the son pkked up the telephone to baud
It to his father that Ills speech was '
reitored.
"MURDEROUS MARY" HANGED.
Klephant Worth as, OOO Had Killed
Her Klt-hth Map.
BnisTOl., Trim., Sept. 14 "Murderous
Mary," n big female elephant heading a
herd wllh a circus, to-day was put lo
death at Krwln, Teim., by order of the
State authorities.
The showmen decided to hang the
JR.noo beast. A dei rick car of the Cam
Una, fllnrhflrld and Ohio Railway wa
ueil, Heavy chains were looped around
the elephant's neck and the steam oper
ated crane lifted the massive foim Into
the air. The animal struggled for ipilte
a while before death Dually tesulted
fr nil strangulation,
Mary had slam her eighth man, her
last victim being Wiityer Kldrldge, a
Virginian, who was hilled at Kingspott
Tuesday last,
200 WOUNDED IN FIRE PERIL.
nrinnved nn Stretchers From For
mer Home nf Whttrlaw Held.
Lonpon, Sept, 14. Two bundled
wounded soldiers were safely removed
on stretchers to-night when fire broke
nut In the West Park Military Hospital
near Amthill, Bedfordshire, The build
ing, the seat of Lord- Lucas, for several
years was occupied by the late White
law nld, American Ambassador to
Great Britain. It was badly damaged.
For the two hours of the inarch the
strikers maintained a steady, good hu
mored running fire of talk with the spec
tators, appealing to the sidewalk crowds
to keep off the surface cars nnd walk
rather than patronize the elevated or
subway, catling attention to their num
bers, asking the crowds to believe that
the Interbornugh was trying to crush
union labor.
Strikers Sin Qaeer Paradles.
They roared out songs. One that had
been composed especially for the occa
sion was sung to the tune of "I Was
Seeing Nellie Home," the chorus of
which ran :
We ars burying itedley's bones.
We are burying Itedley's bnnea.
This l nl.l lle.tlsy'e tunsral parly,
. For we're tiurMng Utility's bonts.
Not the least chipper of the marchers
was Matt Murphy, who led the strikers
from the Third avenue surface lines.
Matt wore nine service stripes, each In
dicating live years of service. Recently
he has been a switchman at Klfty-nlnth
street and Third avenue. They wanted
him to ride In a motor car with some
of the other elderly men, but Matt eald
his legs were good, and thnt a healthy
man of 70 should be ashamed to ride
In a union labor parade.
Speaking; at L'aton Sqaare.
The head of the parade reached Union
Square a few minutes after 1 P. M. The
pavilion was already crowded and per
haps 3,000 persons In addition to the
Intruders took part In the mass meeting
that followed. Hugh Frayne was the
first speaker. He explained that Samuel
Gompers, president of the American
Federation of Labor, had reiterated his
sympathy with the strike movement, but
was unable to get away from Washing
ton. Mr. Frayne warned the strikers
Hint "lnterborough spies" were In the
crowd, He asserted that 12,000 regular
employees of the lnterborough and the
other lines are on strike.
Strike lender Fitzgerald, uproariously
cheered, said that the strike would go
on to success and that the transporta
tion officials were not telling the truth
In saying that more than 10,000 of their
cmplo.vees had remained on duty
"Before another week has passed we
shall see whether trade unionism in this
city 9 tO ll'e or to die," said Flt.
gerald,
James P. Holland, president of the
State Federation of Labor, said that If
the strike Is not settled by Saturday In
a way satisfactory to the amalgamated
carmen a sympathetic strike Involving,
If necessary, every union labor man In
the city will surely be called.
Parora Sympathetic Strike.
"I am In favor of a sympathetic
strike," said Mr. Holland, "The men of
our organization are waiting and merely
marking time until the Mayor and the
Public Service Commission show whether
they can make good. If they can't make
good by Saturday there will be a sm
pathetic strike which will astound New
ork. If the strike keeps up we will
call out all the union men engaged In
furnishing coal and other supplies to
th railroad companies. If necessary we
will go further than calling out the men
In trades dealing with the Interboroiigh
and the street railroads. The match Is
ready '"
Representative Meyer London scolded
the striker for going out until they had
made sure of the subway and elevated
motormen, but he told them their cause
wa Jut and would have the support of
union labor generally.
.lames Vahey of Huston, general coun
sel for the Amalgamated union, prom
ise.! the strikers that the Massachusetts
branch would contribute HOrt.tino to keep
Hie strike alive here The announcement
tvn tremendously cheered. Among the
other speaker' was Louis Frldlger. coun
sel fur the union
While the speakers were at It. utrfare
ear slid steatlilv nlong the east und
west siiles of Colon Square, whllo their
(nototmeu and 1 onductor", protected by
wire screens, grlnnerl at the sttlkers.
' WILL STRIP PACIFIC FLEET.
Ml First lllvlalnn Iteatrnyrra Or
dered lo Reserve.
San it:.lo, i"al . Sept It For the
Inst time m many years the Pacific
coast so.iii will be without a elncle tor
pedo boat lestioer In active service as
a lesiih of oidei received heie to-il.tv
from the Navy Department at Washing
ton to place lu icseive all destroyers of
Hie first d vision of the Pacific fleet
Tin. vessels affected are the Paul
Jones, Peny, Preble, Whipple. Ttuxton.
Hull, Hopkins and Stewart The Whip
ple arrived heie to-night from Mexican
wnteis. It was reported that the Navy
Department contemplated sending a flo
tilla of nil buttling tlestro.vers to the Pa
cltle coast for active service
GUEST DIES ON STEAM YACHT.
Mrs. William A, Aland Victim of
tpopleiy board Irene.
NnwroHT, It I St pi II Mts Will
Inm A. Aland of Miildletovvti, Conn., who
had been the guest of Mr and Mrs,
Alfteil p Lasher of New York on the
steam jacht liene, died suddenly on
hlpboatd to. night from apoplexy a short
time after (he vessel had arrived here
(torn liar Harbor and Gloucestei
Ml" Aland and Mr. nnd Mis, Lasher
were waiting on titck for dinner when
the formrr was stricken A physician
was sent for, but !e expired within
twenty minutes and hefote the tlnctor
arrived, Mr Aland was notified at once.
DR. BIGGS HAS OPERATION.
nrgeon Wires From Minnesota It
iienra Illicitly Successful.
Dr Herman M Rlgga, State Commis
sioner nf Health, was successfully oper
ated on esterday lu the Mayo lumbers'
hospital, Rochester, Minn, for chronic
appendicitis and gall stonrtt,
The operation was pet formed hv Hi
George D Stewart of this city, who no
t'ompinletl Dr. Wags to Rochester, nr
Stewart wired last night that the opera
Hon had been perfotmeil and promised
to he "highly successful "
HAS POLIOMYELITIS AT 51.
It'll lit Una Hern lift Ilia 1'nrni Only
Once III SevernI Mmilha,
NkwmPIiiIH. N V, Sept 1 1 George
II King, f.l jears old, supei Inteiulent
at llrookslde Farm, this city, I dangei
ously til with Infantile parnlvsls. e
wae taken Tuesday ami the prngtesa of
the disease ha been rapid. Ho has
been off hU big farm but once In months,
and then .In an nutomobllo to a State
uanuy o( Mrrntrs,
CAR STRIKE END
OR VICTORY PUT
UP TO UNIONISTS
Promised (Joneral Walkout
of 100,000 in X. Y. Trades
"Xeedpd to Win."
BROOKLYN WORKERS
READY TO QUIT JOBS
Deleijrato.s From 05 Labor
Organizations Indorse
Sympathy Move.
TRACTI0X OFFICIALS
RIDICULE THREATS
Shonts Says 3rany Interboro
Men Are Seeking Old
Positions.
i
Material facts in tha transportation
situation Indicated laat night that the
strikers have lost ao much ground that
'thlr demonstration cannot last much
longer unless union labor generally
makes good Its threat to Uick them up.
There was definite Improvement of
service on the surface car line-, par
ticularly with tho green car lines In
Manhattan nnd with thft lines In Tho
Bronx, so much so that Mm lnterbor
ough waa able to shift antl modify it
subway and elevated schedules, de
creasing somewhat the number nf
trains run q the e2"y h"tirs and In
creasing the rush hour service.
A significant report In Mm dy'.s
situation came) from the New York
Central Itallroad, which hntl been ac
commodating daily from l.VOOO to 20,
000 persona unable to get to bulnos
otherwise from far uptown. Tho road
carried only about 8,000 person yes
terday In excess nf U ti.sna tralllc.
The diminution was n f.iiiko of tho
service resumption on tho northerly
surface car lines.
Men Ilepnrted Seeking Old Jobs.
j i. ii wicse smuKiics went an easier
attitude on the part of Messrs. Shont.
Whltrldge, Medley nnd their associates
In the management of tho transportation
lines. They Insisted that largo numbers
of strikers wero appealing f.ir their old
Jobs
Mr. Shout announced that no more
strike breakers would be used in the sub
way because the lnterborough now had a
sufficient number of regular employees
to take care of tho Increased service.
He renewed hi determination not to deal
with the Amalgamated union and Will
iam H. Fitzgerald, It leader, at nnv
place, at any timet or utidee any ooinp.
I Hons whatever. nlng that the strike
bad been put down because of tb,. loyalty
'of the Inlerhorougha regular forcn' anil
i that the labor chieftain's hour of power
j wa done.
' Mr Whltrldge, for the Third Avenue
l Railroad, appeared yesterday morning
ncinre toe i-uiuic servico Commission
to testify that hn had m.til. an especial
point of keeping the ptace agreement of
Alltrllst 7. anil u-.iu r.itln.e ..l.n.t
I admission made by Mr. Fitzgerald that
i It was actually true thnt tin, Thie.t
nue men got beyond control of tho lead
ers and "ran away with the strike."
The Public Service Con mission hear
ing came to nothing and tho .Mayor and
c 'halt man Straus were left just where
they had been- without a feasible pro
gt amine for peace or encouragement
from the transportation ntlftuls,
Whltrldge Plea to Ki-Bmplnyrea,
Lat night Mr. Whltrldge came nut
with nn Invitation to former employees
of the roi.t to return to work, promising
them lu a printed appeal an Increase of
pay amounting to 150, OOo year
changed and bettered working conditions
and protection against persons that
might wish to do them harm.
He notlrted the strikers that be would
Ilka to give more than 150,000 a jear,
hut that the Third Avtnu was ton
hard up to do better He said he
"might possibly squeeie out another
150,000" and In the new book of rules
In go Into effect on Octobei 1 e pro.
vides for that mtiih of total Increase
1 In pay The appeal was Issued at a
I strategic moment, as Mr Whltrldge felt
the strike wits golnir to plecees and ha
desired to further Hie process,
"There Is no doubt lu mv mind." h
said, "that (he great majority of our
Mrlklng employees are very rieshoiis of
gettlim back to work We have asked
them to return to work Our superin
tendent will Immediately receive applica
tions We shall see thnt tr-ern h tin dls.
crimination against them
"In my opinion, the strike is broken,
and all talk of a s.vmpathetlc strike Is
foolish I am sine the people are thor
oughly sick of the present situation, and
will resent any further display of force
on the part of the orguiliern of this
trouble,"
Points in I'nlliipse nt Strike.
The statistic of train mid car running,
the nbvlnnsh heightened conlldenrn of
the ttatispoitation ..tllcials, general tnlk
nf defection .inioug Hie strlkci, the close
grip Kept upon the whole situation bv the
police appealed to i.olut, taken alto
gether, to tie downfall of the etrlko In
slioit order unless the union chiefs of
the llmil Continental confcreu.'o can
finish what thev have Marled the gen
eral strike mot ell enl
iiiete ale ill .1 11 v pet sons r.inu up with
union labor p.iltiis .uvcvei. who
insWt that an ilTc. live g ni.il sltike
1 cannot be had nt this tune iiiev
point paitl.'iilaily to the altitude of
Samuel Goiupets, who failed to
recommend n gtucral strike who hat
absented himself fioin Mi Ike confiucucci
heie ami who I said to be itveise in .1
)f 41aTtup-ltW4ew Xork-clty Iur iwllttcal
