THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 15, 191G
10 PAGES
.VOL. XXVII, NO. 119
H RACE WlTi DEATH
SlAlffi MIM BURil
PACIFIC COAST UUn AFIRE IT
SEA MAKES GDDSBftY IN SWtlT -BEFORE
FLAMES EIWELDP HULK VICE
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
MARSHFIELD, Ore, Sept. 14. With her hold a mass of flames, the Pa
cific Coast Steamship Company's liner Congress raced against death for the
entrance of Coos Bay late toda and safely transferred her passengers and
crew to the dredge Colonel P. Y. Michie. Shortly after the last soul on board
had been disembarked, the Congress llared up like a torch from stem to
stern and was completely destroyed. -
All the passengers and most of the crew were landed from the Michie at
North Bend, near here shortly before 10 p. m. tonight.
Two members of the crew were overcome by the smoke. 'They are Chief
Engineer b. Martland and F. Tyson, n assistant in the steward's depart
ment. The former's condition is not serious but the latter was taken to a
hospital at North Bend in an unconscious condition.
Two miles off Coos Bay bar, which is 25 miles off shore, the Conoress
was forced to come to a sto- and cast anchor. Had the dredae Michie not
been working on the bar when the Congress approached Coos Bay, a tragic
catastrophe probably would have resulted. The Michie came close alongside
the burning ship almost immediately after the latter cast anchor.
By that time the Congress was completely enveloped in smoke, which
swirled out and enveloped the Michie also. The decks of the Congress were
blistering hot. Men and women, choking in the smoke, endeavored to P1'6
into the life boats. The crew, however, under the direction of Captain N. t.
Cousins, remained in control of the situation and were assisted by the more
self possessed of the passengers. Women cried hysterically, but there was
no canic. .
Seven life boats were lowered and women and children were put into
them without disorder. In the transfer of those aboard to the Michie only
one mishap occurred. Charles Joughin, who was a baker on the Titanic
when that vessel went down and who held the same position on the Con
gress, fell into the water while attempting to enter a life boat. He was picked
up without having suffered iniuries.
The liner soon was wrapped in a f ierv mantle.
Abandoned to her fate, the Congress drifted toward the spit, the en
trance to Coos Bay, lighting the sky for miles around. At a late hour tonight
sh was still adrift and burning fiercely.
Considering the rapidity with whicn me fire on the Congress spread after
its discovery, the safe transfer of all on board is considered to have been re
markably fortunate.
The quick appearance of the Michie nd a calm sea were the principal
factors in the saving of all on board.
The cause of the fire, which originated in the steerage near number two
hold, may never be determined.
When the dredge Michie and the gas -
schooner Tillamook reached me i on- fl), r..i i,r from i,-(,t nt severa
N..n,. alon,- the bea, but those wh
Benders fighting frantically to enter the went to the lighthouse had an unim-
life boats. Despite me sirens oi me paired view. Several Fmaii noai weie
situation, however, Captain N. E. cminK uown t)ie )a)- and they were
SSn'SlntSS S lost to sight as they entered the smoke
transferring the people aboard the nth- , which hovered over the burning snip,
er vessels was carried out in an orderly j At 7: 15 the Richie j.ulled away, giv-
Combles On Verge Of Capture By French and British
7
PRESIDEN
S
FORMALLY NOTIFIED f
i WCNT TAKE YOUTHFUL
OFFENDER IN ARMY
I CHICAGO, Sept. H. Sentence I
I of a hoy offender to enlistment
I in the X'nited States army I
criticism on Judge Harry A!. I
I Fisher, of the Chicago hoys'
I court today hy Captain F. K.
j Kinney of the United States j
I army recruiting service. Fisher !
j luul' given Thomas Gebhard. a I
I youth accused of stealing, the I
I alternative of going to prison or
joining the nnm. Captain Kin-
ney irfirmfd Judge Fisher today
I the army would not accept re
I emits accused of Illegal acts nnd
i bitterly criticised the judge.
n
OLIO'S LEAD
IS SWELLED Ei!
LATE RETURNS
manner.
Before the last boat load, In which
was Captain Cousins, left the Congress
the smoke and heat were almost un
liearable. Flames were shooting out
of the ventilators and up the pas;age
n:ivs
Shortly nfter the last life boat got
away, half the vessel was on fire. Soon
afterward the names enveloped tier
from stem to stern, lighting the sky to
a crimson hue. With the wind and
tide the steamer then began drifting in
toward the spit on Coos Bay.
The crew of the life saving station
In a power boat reached the Congress
shortly after the Michie and the Tilla
mook arrived, and helped remove the
passengers and crew to the two latter
vessels.
According to word reaching here, the
fire was discovered at about 3 p. m.
near the second hold in the steerage
cabin. No word was received from the
Congress, however, regarding the fire,
until nearly 5 p. m. The main wireless
Bet of the liner became disabled at
about 4 p. m. and the operator flashed
calls for aid by means of an auxiliary
M-t, getting the Coos Hay station by
the latter. At that time the steamer
was running for Coos Hay. She was
compelled to come to a stop two miles
off the entrance.
The Great Northern was the only
steamer on the outside to respond to
the calls for aid. As she was some
distance south and could not reach the
scene before 10 p. m., word was later
writ by the Michie that she need not
come.
'the Congress came to a stop off the
Coos I'.ay bar at about 4:30 p. m., and
was anchored between two buoys with
her stern pointed toward the beach.
The dredge Michie was soon at the
scene. Hoats were lowered at once and
people from the shore saw the people
1 ing those on shore the Impression that
I everybody was saved. The steam
i schooner A. M. Simpson, which reached
the Congress too late to assist, and the
Tillamook stood by after the Michie
' departed.
In transferring the passengers ana
crew, only one man fell into the water
and he was rescued without injury.
Mrs. Margaret Heig of St. iAiuis. Mo.,
who was very 111, was transferred
carefully from the Congress to the
Michie. All the passengers and most
of the crew went ashore at North Bend,
where they are being cared for.
26
to stern, will be a total loss. o Roving c:
to a message received here H,wn ,s, Ymnmin
the office of the Pacific runnl.-ic behind with
All Passengers Saved
SAN FRANCISCO, tfept. 14. All the
passengers of the Congress have been
saved but the ship, which was ablaze
from stem to stern, will be a total loss,
according t
tonight at
Const Steamship company.
The Congress whic h was the largest
vessel In the fleet of the I'acific Coast
Steamship company left here yesterday
for Seattle with 216 first cabin pas
sengers and 37 in the steerage. One
hundred and twelve of the passengers
were from southern California ports.
Captain N. K. Cousins was in com
mand of the Congress and the steamer
carried a crew of about 170.
The Congress, which was built In
1313 at Camden, N. J., at a cost of
$1. 250,000, was a steel steamer of 7,895
tons, 424 feet long and 5a feet broad, i by an
She was the finest vessel on the run I Justin
between San Francisco and Seattle.
With all but two precincts entered
the nredomliiating feature of the re
sultr- of the primaries In Marhapa
county, was the growth Instead of
the shrinkage, of the majority with
which Geo. A. Olney beat Governor
Hunt Ir. this county. It looktd yes
teniay as if the majority wcul.l be
wiped out entirely, but as the out-
lving precincts started to come In
the ir:'J-.itv grew, until last night it
v.as &".'. The two precincts to hea
'r.i mart- loth small, and it Is doubt
ful if t will be changed much one
wav or the ot'ier.
In the race between County At
torney Handy and I,. M. Lancy, win
seks to succeed Gandy, the cuun
last evening gave Iuie the major
tV i 20 V Jte. Tim t'.ta' vote l.
the two invii was Laney 2-1. Gandv
11. The race between J T. Hone
Kill T. M. Burroughs is the do"e
on' the ticket Bone was ahead by
yc-en votes, having a total of 27
votes to Hi'i roceh' 2Y1S. if the tw
precinct remaining to he heard from,
it is said that in McDowell, there wa
no vote cast, and it is thought tha
the effects of the Rescue Club wil
he felt as far a wav from Phoenix
Wickenbiirg, whijli is the other miss
I Inir 'irecincts
I I'.cwen and liradshaw are nominat
ed ns county supervisors, reeelvln
liradshaw 2"
ns litis and Luke,
e betiimi wim r.i.i.
Judge L-man l nominated r.ver his
file eating opponent Hawkins by
the comfortable majority of fio:i voter.
Their respective votes are: Lyman
3ii".2. Hawkins ?40'i.
V'ilk leads MacDorald by 4i2
voles, having 2"7fi vot"s to MacDon
ald's 1SJ"i, with Peyton trailing be
hind with 595.
Web) heat Wallace by 211 votes,
and wins the decision in another hot
ley contested fight. Webb drew 21"
votes to Wullact's 1947, for treasurer
Olio of the largest majorities polled
bv any candidates is that of Chief
Boss of the supreme court
MARSHALL IS
INFORMED RE
IS NOMINATED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
INDIANAPOLIS. Sept. 14. Vice
President Thomas R. Marshall was no-
ified tonight of his renomination for
vice president on the democratic ticket
and formally accepted the honor. The
ceremonies were the third of the can
didates to he held In Indianapolis with
in the last few weeks. The other two
nominations were for J. Frank Hanly,
the prohibition presidential candidate.
and Charles W. Fairbanks, republican
vice presidential nominee.
Prominent democrats from all over
the I'nited States were present. In
formal iKilltical conferences were held
by the lenders, and plans for the cam
paign were discussed thoroughly. Re
ports of what had been done in Indiana
were made to National Chairman
Vance McCormlek.
Martin H. Glynn, former governor of
New York, delivered the speech of no
tification after having been Introduced
by J. A. M. Adair, candidate for gover
nor of Indiana, chairman of the cere
monies. All the speakers praised the
present democratic administration, re
plied to Jhe republicans, and expressed
confidence of a democratic victory.
1 here is something peculiarly befit
ting in a man from New York heading
this committee to do honor to a son of
Indiana," said Mr. Glynn. "Thirty-two
years ago, after a long unbroken series
f di lealf. the democratic party under
the leadership of a man from New York
and a man fiom Indiana won an inspi
ratiornl victory that put new heart and
newlile into the democracy of the
nation.
Mr. Glynn described the Wilson ad-micl,-truiHn
as -o "ti.nt in efficiency
of h' evict' and in rcspoi! Ovcuess to wip
ularwill, has had no rival in this coun
try 'in the last fifty years." Concern
ing it lie s aid:
"The historian of the future will say
that into the laws of the nation were
written not only the pledges of the
democratic .lalform but the pledges of
the progressive platform and the
pledges of the republican platform that
served public interests und fostered
public welfare."
Asserting that Woodrow Wilson
would be the next president and Mr.
Marshall the next vice president, Mr.
.Glynn said that, "the most potent rea
son therefore lies In the great human
Plieal of the policy and performances
the administration in which you
have been second in command.
In his speech of acceptance phrased
in characteristic vein, the vice tires
ent sketched briefly the legislative
achievements of the administration, in
which he said tie had been "an onlook-
ROOSEVELT SAYS NOT
SUPPORTING SEABURY
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
NEW YORK, Sept. 14. Theodo-e Roosevelt issued a statement here
tonight through his secretary, John W. McGrath, announcing that he 13
not supporting Samuel Beaburg, candidate for governor of New York,
in the progressive primries.
Mr. Roosevelt has stated explicitly to the progressives who have
asked him to support Judqe Seabury that he would not do so," the state
ment sid. "because Mr. Seabury is supporting M" Wilson and is run
ninq on the same ticket with M-. W'lson and therefore, doinq all in his
power to brinq about the re-election of Mr. Wilson. Mr. Roosevelt would
regard this as a disastrous -calamity to the country, and he, therefore be
lieves that no candidate should support Mr. Seabury in the progressiva
primaries next Tuesday."
I
TO 60 BEFORE
MM i
Silmon Bark In Danger
The Alaska Packers bark Star of
Chile, en route from Bristol Bay.
Alsaka. with the neasnn's catch (
Salmon for San Francbco, was re-
1 ported to lie In the breakers off Point
t., 1 r-,i lunlu.rii-i, mil, .a i..t,h nt
taken across the Intervening space to , the fJ'0,,,,.n f;ate ()n ,JOard the ves(,,
the dredge.
It was daylight, and yet the flamen
were plainly visible breaking from the
stern of the craft. The work of rescu
ing the passengers went on with great
precision, and those with glasses saw
the forward deck covered with many
persons getting away from the fierce
ness of the flames.
The gasoline schooner Tillamook ar
rived Just before trte last of the pas
sen Kers were rescued.
The scene as night closed, was wierd.
The heavy smoke of the burning vessel
over 20 cannery hands are thought
to be returning to this port.
News of the bark's danger was
iirniinht here by a fisherman who
said the vessel appeared to 1 In
great danger of being swept on the
rocks, but that a denie fog closed in
and hid her from view.
Deep sea going tugs were sent
from San Fran'isco to the vessel'l
assistance. When last seen, the Star . all
it being 1120. He obtained 3243 votes
to Judge Duffy's 2(i3.
In the race for corporation com
mission. A. A. Hetts who Is conceded
to be. 1 he victorious candidate, can
thank his lucky stars that he had
Marieo-m behind hirn. His huge ma
lority hero is about all that saved
him. lie carrieil the county by 159"!
voips having 2!i"8 votes to Miller's
l!is 2
Miller wan Hill hopeful yesterday
that ho would win the nomination,
basing his hopefulness upon the un
expected returns from Cochise county
which gave him n majority there of
"35 votes. Another surprise of this
race, especially to Miller, was the fact
that llctts carried Miller's county
tYuma) ly 112 votes. Hetts carrlei
hut 'ine or tne tionnern
of Chile was three-quarters of a
mile off shore and her crew was
signallying for help.
GUI
ESS MEN OFFER TO I
IN SETTLING TRANSIT, STRIKE
'Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Kept. 14. Represen
tative business nd professional men
late today offered to co-operate with
city officials In an endeavor to set
tle the transit strike, which for the
last seven days ha? hampered trans
location in Manhattan, the Kroiot
and portions of Westchester county.
While James P. Holland, president
of the State Federation of Labor, was
telling 8.000 striking car men and
their sympathizers at a meeting in
Ilnlor Sipiarn. after their parade,
that 70,000 allied trade unionists
would strike Saturday unless a set
tlement was affected. In the mean
time Mayor Mitchell and the public
service commission was In confer
ence with committees from the
Chamber of Commerce, the Mer
charts Association and Kindred or
ganizations in an effort to end the
strike
A score of persons were Injured,
srverrl of them seiiousl)', in surface
eat accidents today.
Kubttav and elevated service con
tinned abnormal.
Frederick K. Whitrldge, president
of the Third Avenue Railway Com
'pany tonight invited the strikers to
return to work, promising bette."
working conditions, and an Increase
in wages tmountlng to (r.0.000 a
vear. Mr. Whltridce "raid he had de
cided upon this course "because the
Third Avenue Railroad officials .vert
convinced that manv of the strikers
had been bullied into striking "
ties, broke even In Gila and Pinal
carried Graham and Greenlee and
with his majority in Maricopa conn
tv. will take the. nomination by a
majority of about Too votes. Miller's
rp.ee in every way was a surprise to
both his and Hetts' friends.
In the race for county school sup
erintcndent, Fulton has won with t
maiorlty of 207 over his closest op.
nonent Jones. The vote Is Fulton
2423. Jones 22!fi and Standage, who
ranks third. 10S7.
Senator Stupley is returned to his
seat in the state senate, having polled
2f.27 votes, while the junior member
from Maricopa will be H. A. Davis,
who received 29U7 Votes to Hevllle's
24.12.
Mit Simms, though defeated
his race for setietary of state,
into his successful opponents
in
cut
Os
(Continued on Pace Two)
Works On Death Chair, Says
Condemned Man Is Innocent
TRcpubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
ALBANY, N. Y., Sept. 14. Governor
Whitman today granted a respite until
October 2 in the case of Thomas Brim
brick, whose execution at Sing Sing
prison for the murder or Patrolman
George Dapping of New York In 1915
had been fixed for tomorrow morning.
This is the second time Bambrlok has
been given a respite.
The ordeal of watching tests of cur
rent after he had been detailed to aid
In adjusting the wires and contacts of
the electric chair led to a statement by
Frank Meehan, a Sing Sing convict, It
was learned tonight, on which was
based the respite to Babrick. Meeha
said, according to the authorities, that
he witnessed the shooting of Dappin
and that the murderer was not Bam
brick.
Meehan broke down while nt work
about the electric chair it was said
and begged to be taken at once
Deputy Warden Miller, to whom he re
lated his story.
er, and eulogized the president as "the
man who brooded over the republic in
stormtossed times and by mere words
poke peace on the troubled seas of
International politics. A changed ad
ministration, he declared, would not
dare repeal a single one of the import
ant measures put on the statute hooks
since March 4, la 13. Wanting an issue,
he continued, the republicans had
turned to foreign affairs, coining such
phrases 11s ''t Irm Americanism'' which
they could not define.
"The American people this year have
made their own issue," said Mr.
Marshall. "Those that the parlies pre
sent may be only side issues. The real
ssue of this campaign Is that thought
winch goes with the father to his work
or business, which engrosses everv
mother, wife or sweetheart, which sits
down with them at every fireside and
goes to bed with them in every home.
and that thought is 'Can the president
or me united states continue to so
patiently manage our international af
fairs as to maintain honorable peace?"
tne one hrignt. peaceful snot under
the sun this day is America and it is
so because the president pleads guilt
to me cnarge or using words rathe
than shot and shell and shrapnel. If
America is to lead the world toward
that now seemingly far distant goal
where brute force shall be bound by
wisdom and conscience in letters which
It can never again break, then these
are the hours for mere words."
J he vice president made a caustic
reference to the refusal of Theodore
(Continued on Page i'hree)
o
Livestock Men
Gathering For
Denver Meeting
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DICNVER, Sept. 14. Prominent live
stock men from the west and south
westv were here tonight for the con
ference of the marketing committee of
the National 1 Livestock Association
which opens tomorrow.
Among those expected to attend the
conference are Ike T. Pryor, San An
tonio; H. C. Lasiter; Dwight B. Heard
of Phoenix, president of the National
Livestock association; (iov. John
Keiidrick. of Wyoming: E. L. Burk of
Omaha, and E. C. Hall, chief of the
bureau of marketing, department of
agriculture. Washington, D. C.
It is expected resolutions will be
adopted urging congress to continue
hearings held recently in Washington
to determine whether the packers con
trol prices and marketing conditions.
1U
IAN
fFtepubllcan A. P. Leased Wlrel
NEW LONDON, Sept. 14. Major
Genera! Tasker H. Bliss, assistant chief
of staff of the I'nited States army. Is
to apear before the American-Mexican
commission tomorrow when discussion
of border problems is renewed. He
will be the first and possibly the only
witness to be interrogated by the com
mission in joint session. It was thought
advisable that General Bliss should ex
plain to the Mexican commissioners
military aspens of border plans as
seen by l nited Slates army officials.
No definite plan for border patrols
lias taken shape in the minds of the
commissioners. The Americans con-
rred with General Bliss again todav.
It was Indicated that the proposal
hich has apficaled most strongly to
tern was that a border constabulary
e created to operate as a police force
along both sales of the line. It was
iggesled that the force be composed
former soldiers of both countries.
nder joint control and that the ex
pense be shared by both governments.
It was argued that the Mexican people
uld not feel toward the constabulary
he same hostility that they displayed
toward the American troops. It also
as suggested that the police force
,'ould be far more effective in clearing
the mountains of northern Mexico of
bandits.
The joint commission probably will
djourn tomorrow over the week-end
to permit the Mexican members to cele
brate the Mexican independence dav.
September 16. In a statement issued
tonight the following summary of to-
ay s proceedings was given:
'The session was devoted to an in
irmal Interchange of views on th en-
orcement of law in Mexico and on the
guarantees to personal property rights.
1 he .Mexican commissioners Dresented
clear picture or the purposes of the
Curranza government with reference
o the reform of the civil codes and the
codes of procedure. They explained
he fact that under the Diaz regime
he judicial procedure was so cumber
some and expensive and the Judiciary
so corrupt that it was impossible for
a poor man to obtain Justice.
'The purpose of the Curranza gov
ernment is so to simplify procedure
that the courts of Justice will be open
to an. As soon as the plan for the re
vision of the winstituion has been
carried out through a constitutional
convention, a thoroughgoing reform of
the national codes will be undertaken,
in order to make these codes conform
to the new standards of Justice.
1 he Mexican commissioners, em-
s
DOMINATE ALL
0 TECORIPS
Republican A. K Leased Wire
DOT'GLAS. Sept. 14. The Yaqui
Indians in Sonora. far from being
conquered as Mexican official state
ments claim, are gradually driving
Mexicans out of the Yaqui River val
ley and regaining control of their
ancestral lands, according to Amer
icans arriving here today from the
south.
The Indians dominate practically all
of the district between Teooripa, and
Suaqui undisputed. Tecorlpa and
Kepreso mark the north boundary of
Indian territory. Two aggressive cav
alry leaders. Colonel J. Jiminez and
Colonel Francisco Anchetta. are pre
paring a campaign -by which it i
hoped to dislodge them from th
country they -have overrun, and tiriv
theni Into the Pscateta mountains.
ml.- eight farmers out of ISO hav
returned to the Richardson Construe
tlon ci mp.'Uiv tract around Espemnza.
Two nf these are Americans and the
other six Germans.
Live cn Fresh Meat
CIITHCAHUA CITY. Sent. 14.
Villa and his men are subsisting en
tirely on fresh meat which, together
with lack of salt, has caused sickness
and otherwise reduced the stamina of
his force, according to renorts
ceived here today from scouts who
have Interviewed ranchmen in the
bamlil's neighborhood.
Meantime, the constitutionalists are
closing in on Villa from ail sides.
General Trevino states. General
Huerta Vargas is working westward
from Gallecas. from the line of th
Mexican Central railway. Word
expected soon on the result of th
explorations of Geneml Cavnzns
the canyon of Guornchie. Scoutin
parties sent out from Klvalle failed
to come Into contact, they reported
with any bandits.
1 1
BtlNIi Ulilfl '
NEARTOII
1
Republican A. P. Leaned Wire
Beset by British on the west and
French on the east, Combles, in the
Somme region, is on the verge of cap-
ure.
With the British firmly established
less than a mile from the western out
skirts of the village, the French a mile
to the east of it, have driven their
wedge in farther and captured Lepriez
farm. The farm was taken by assault.
Along the Peronne-Bethune road to
the north and south of Bouchavesnea
the Germans, according to Paris, have,
vainly attacked the newly won Frencti
positions in the hope of regaining their
transport line to the north.
Except for reciprocal bombardments
and a slight advance by the French by
means of bombing attacks near Belloy-
n-Santerre. south of the Somme, the
situation elsewhere on the front in
France and Belgium remains un
changed.
Teutonic allies are continuing their
advance .on the Dobrudja sector of
Rumania, according to Berlin and
Sofia.
In Transylvania, Rumanians have at
tacked west and east of Hermann-
stadt, but were repulsed, savs tha
Vienna war office.
In the Carpathians Russians at
tacked at Smotrec. Ludova and Kapul.
Their efforts to drive forward, how
ever, were stopped with sanguinary
losses, accoraing to Vienna.
On the Macedonian front heavy
fighting has taken place but with the
results beclouded. The Serbs in the
Lake Ostrovo region are declared by
Paris to have made appreciable prog
ress, while Both Berlin andSofia men
tion gains for neither side. On the
front where the Italians are facing the
Kuiganans. fcoiia asserts that the
Italians have been put to flight In
the Doiran region the British have
taken a Teutonic position north of the
town or Mucukovo.
Although it had been stated pre
viously that the Greek forts at Kavala
were evacuated by the Bulgarians,
Berlin says they are all in the hands
of the Bulgars and that the Greek
troops which were at Kavala have been
sent to Germany where they will re
main until the end of the war "in the
status of neutrals."
In the Austro-Italian theater the
usual bombardments and isolated in
fantry" attacks continue. Late Athena
dispatches declare that M. Dimitra-
copulos has declined to form a cab
inet to succeed that of M. Zaimis.
Vi'la in Julimes
PRESIDIO. Texas. Sept. 14. A re
nnrt reached the border tonight that
Villistas have engaged government
troops near Menqui, a town of some
Importance on the line of the Mex
ienn Central railway, about fifty
Continued on Page Three)
phasized the fact that the government
has no intention of weakening the
guanintees to civil rigbts, although the
psesent abnormal condition of the
country has made it necessary to sus
pend the constitutional guarantee in
I various sections of the republic."
DISCUSS PART I
IS TO
TAKE I CAMPAIGN
publican A. P. Leased Wire
LONG BRANCH, N. J.. Sept. 14.
The part President Wilson is to take
in the campaign fur his re-election was
discussed here today by the president,
Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo,
I'ost master General Burleson, and
Secretary Tumulty. The plans will be
put into final shape at a meeting her
Monday between President Wilson,
Vance McCormlek, chairman of the
democratic national committee, and
Homer S. Cummings, head of the
speakers' bureau of the national com
mittee. The president will begin his "porch
campaign" at Shadow Lawn next week.
Although he has decided to make no
speeches away from hero except before
non-partisan organizations his political
advisors said today the president ex
pected to be able to get his views be
fore the country effectively.
The campaign for the re-election of
the president will follow the lines of
his speech of acceptance. Through
speeches to delegations here and
through letters, he will amplify points
made in that address and will accept
the challenge of Charles
his plans for the "industrial prepared
ness." In this connection it became
known today that as soon as congress
convenes In December he will make
further efforts to have passed a bill
allowing American exporters to utilize
common selling agencies abroad. The
president plans tonight for leaving
here next Monday night for St. Louis
to address an association of under
writers. It is said, however, that the
trip may be cancelled if there should
be a sudden turn for the worse in the
condition of Mrs. Annie E. Howe, his
sister, who is critically ill at New Lon
don, Conn.
Russian Planes Active
LONDON, Sept. 14. A Reuter dis
patch from Petrograd says that four
giant Russian aeroplanes of the Muro
metz type, bombarded a German sea
plane station on Lake Angern. in the
Gulf of Riga, where 17 seaplanes of
various size and models were dis
cerned. The Russians dropped 73
bombs with resultant fire and smoke
which soon concealed the seaplane
sheds.
Eight German machines attacked the
Russian machines but were put to
flight. Not less than eieht German
machines were destroyed or put out of
010 jiuasiaii aerouianes re
turned safely notwithstanding they
were shelled by anti-aircraft guns.
On a Drevious nrrnsinn thi .
spondent says, one Murometz machine.
wun a crew of rive, routed seven Ger
man seaplanes, which attacked it.
An Amsterdam dispatch to the Ex
change Telegraph company says:
"Serious food riots occurred at Ham
burg Saturday evening. According to
Berlin reports, a mob of angry women
raided shops that had been closed ow
ing to a shortage of meat nnrt vuva.
tables, while another crowd demon
strated before the town hall shouting'
uown nun me junKers; down with the
people's torturers.'
Thirty-seven women were nrreatori
Two policemen were badlv ininred hJ
stones thrown from windows.
At tne resumption of debate on the
Hungarian situation todav Promio.
Tisza again refused to consent to the
convocation or me delegations or ren.
resentatives of the Austrian and Hun
garian parliaments, says a dispatch
irom iiuuapest to Reuter's Telegram
company.
In defending the government's for
eign policy, the premier admitted that
while Rumania's intention was well
known, it was not supposed her ar
mies were ready and, therefore, an at
tack from that quarter would not come
so soon.
The Harrison liner Counsellor, 4.958
tons gross, has been sunk. Her crew
was saved.
The following official Bulgarian
statement was received here today:
"Rumanian front: Calm prevailed
along the Danube. Our troops continue
to advance in Dobrudja.
"Macedonian front: There was strong
(Continued from Page Three)
To Distribute Supplies
Through Port of Beirut
the republican nominee, on the issue
created by the settlement of recently
threatened railroad strike.
Mr. Wilson also has decided to de
vote himself strictly to telling of the
achievement of his administration and
to attacks on the republican party.
The president will dwell particularly
on the prosperity of the country and
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Sept. 14. Distribu-
E. Hughes, I tion of the supplies which already have
been offered in lar"e quantity by Syr
ian and Armenian relief societies,
would be made under the Turkish plan,
through the port of Beirut. State de
partment officials believe that the sup
plies will go through safely.
The department regarded Turkey's
action fw especially timely since Octo
ber 21 and 22 have been named in a
proclamation by President Wilson as
relief days for raising further funds
and supplies for Syrians and Ar
menians. The consent of Ottoman government
with respect to Syria does not apply
to Armenia, but negotiations are being
continued for similar concessions there.
The Turkish communication fixes only
one condition, the supplies for Syria lie
distributed from Beirut through the
Red Cross and Red Crescent societies.
