Official
Newspaper of
Olympia
VOL. LVI. NO. 26
USTER-niRNER, MGBRtOE-FOINDEXTER NOMINEES
"WETS" NOMINATE REPUBLICAN GUBERNATORIAL CANDI
DATE, WITH HARTLEY RUNNING SECOND—"CALAMITY"
BILL HUMPHREY BADLY BEATEN FOR SENATOR—SU
PREME COURT JUSTICES RE-NOMINATED.
Nomination of Ernest Lister and George Turner for governor and
United States senator respectively on the Democratic ticket, and of
Henry Mcßride and Miles Poindexter for these same offices on the
Republican ticket, is indicated by the scattering returns received to
date from all over the state as to the results of the primaries Tuesday.
Summarized, the results so far received indicate:
That Lister received about all the Democratic vates cast for gov
ernor.
That Turner's margin over Robert Bridges for senator will be
large.
That the present supreme court judges have ben re-nominated by
a sufficient margin to insure that theirs will be the only names on the
November ballot, with J. Stanley Webster of Spokane the nominee
for the short term.
That Miles Poindexter received more than 40 per cent of all the
votes cast for senator on the Republican ticket, eliminating the second
choice ballots, and leads "Calamity Bill" Humphrey by a plurality of
from 8,000 to 10,000.
Mcßride, Hartley and Sutton.
That Mcßride is running first for the Republican gubernatorial
nomination, with a lead of about 7,000 over Hartley, who is second,
13,000 over Sutton, and 14,000 over Lee.
All of which means that the Perkins-Bone pre-primary slate was
smashed to smithereens.
The Democratic vote throughout the state was very light, in spite
of the efforts of the state central committee and leading Democratic
speakers to keep the Democrats from entering the Republican pri
maries, which apparently was done in large numbers and proved a
factor in throwing the senatorial nomination to Poindexter General
interest in the primary concerned the Republican nominees, the only
contests being on that ticket, and the result is that the Democratic
vote has not been tabulated.
Humphrey Loses Own County.
On the Republican side, Humphrey's home county, King, went to
Polndexter on first choice votes, while
Polndexter has a lead of 8,000 first I
choice votes throughout the state, and.
•ven the Seattle Post-Intelllgencer,
which supported Humphrey, says:
"Complete returns from the missing
precincts in the stats are not likely
to make Important changes In the
figures,"save perhaps to Increase Poin
dexter's lead." Polndexter carried
■astern Washington by a big vote.
His first choice vote In 1,663 of the
2,443 precincts of the state is 68,816,
compared to 60,395 for Humphrey.
The first choice vote for G. A.
Bryan for senator Is running way low,
but he has polled a heavy second
choice vote and probably would nose
Humphrey out for second place it
these ballots were counted.
In the gubernatorial race, Mc-
Brlde's nomination is credited to the
"wets" and Is taken to Indicate that
the "wet" and "dry" fight will gain
preeminence again this year, with
Mcßrlde "wet" and Lister "dry." Lee,
the Perkins-Bone candidate, ran a
poor fourth, led by .Hartley, the "open
shop" advocate, In second place, and
Sutton, the only man from Eastern
Washington, third. Bob Hodge is
running fifth, McNeeley sixth, Froßt
seventh and Lewis eighth. The first
choice vote for Mcßrlde, reported
from 1,663 out of the 2,443 precincts
In the state, Is 66,397, and for Hart
ley 48,630.
Congressman Johnson was easily
renominated in this district.
Walter W. Sherman of this city,
deputy state treasurer for eight
years, is running ahead of Calvin J.
Carr of Pierce county for the nomina
tion as state treasurer, having been
given a large plurality in Southwest
Washington, King and Spokane coun
ties and reduced Carr's vote in
Pierce, and it is generally thought ha
has won, Mrs. Josephine Preston is
reported to have a slight lead over
M. B. Durham for the nomination as
state superintendent of public In
struction, though the race is close.
The other incumbent state officers
were re-nomlnated.
Shumate Wins at Puyallup.
C. W. Shumate of Tumwater, who
took a lot of prizes on Duroc-Jersey
and Poland-China hogs at the South
west Washington Pair and won a
large number of awards at the Thurs
ton County Fair this week, also took
all the firsts in Polands and first and
second on Durocs at the Western
Washington Fair in Puyallup this
week, and won the sweepstakes over
all sows and boars of all ages.
The Jury which heard the trial at
Bucoda Wednesday of the four Olym
pia boys recently arrested by Marshal
DeLoach of Tenino for bootlegging,
failed to agree after deliberating sev
eral hours and was discharged about
12:30 Thursday morning by Justice
E. A. Nichols.
Washington St a n DarD
ESTABLISHED NOV. 17, 1860.
OHM IIS
II tOUin CUBES!
BENNETT ONLY ONE OF "ANTIB"
TO BREAK THROUGH—HEAVY
VOTE CAST.
With the single exception of the
commlssionership In the Second dis
trict, the Hopkins organization nomi
nated all of its county candidates in
the primaries last Tuesday, when the
largest primary vote in the county's
history was cast, S. T. Bennett of
Puget, who downed Robert S. Smith
of Yelm and four others for commis
sioner in the Second district, being
the only one of the "antis" to break
through. He was also nominated on
the Non-Partisan ticket.
The Republican primary campaign
had been an interesting one, because
it was the first time for some years
that a determined efTort had been
made to break into the organization
slate, and the number of candidates
for representative, sheriff, assessor,
engineer and commissioner in the
Second district made the race for
these offices generally close and ex-
citing. The organization itself was
divided on several of the candidates,
and the see-sawing this caused during
the pre-primary contest 1 , coupled with
the interjection of the wet and dry
issue, attracted an unusual primary
vote.
Blocking High. Carlyon Low.
The most votes cast for any one
candidate went to Fred W. Stocking
for the nomination for treasurer, for
which he was unopposed, his vote
being 3,376 compared to 2,776 for
Senator P. H. Carlyon, who also was
unopposed and polled the least of
these nominees. Of the other candi
dates who hsd a clear field, Auditor
Annie Gaston ran first, polling about
140 less votes than Stocking, Clerk
I. N. Holmes second, Thos, L. O'Leary
for prosecuting attorney third and
County Superintendent O. C. Goss
fourth, with about 30 more votes
than for Carlyon.
C. C. Asplnwall of Mud Bay led
the ticket In the contested offices, re
ceiving 1,758 votes for representative,
Lewis J. Morrison being nominated as
his colleague. Third place in this
contest went to Mrs. Kate L. Young,
whose large vote was one of the sur
prises of the primary though 425 less
than that for Morrison, fourth to R.
H. Leupke. fifth to W. F. James of
Grand Mound, sixth to Ed Rogers
and seventh to A. N. Sarjent.
In the race for sheriff Jack CifTord,
chief deputy for the last four years,
won the nomination by a margin of
260 over E. B. Conner. James Van
TRY OLYMPIA MERCHANTS FIRST
Continued on Page Five
"HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS FALL WHERE THEY MAY."
OLYMPIA. WASHINGTON. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1916
PROHIBITIONISTS RATIFY
STATE TICKET NOMINEES
Hold Convention Here Tuesday to
Conform With Primary Law.
Thurston county Prohibitionists
met in mass convention in this city
Tuesday afternoon and ratified the
nominees proposed at the recent state
convention, the action being taken to
meet the requirements of the primary
law. Walter F. McDowell of this city,
state chairman, presided, and was
named as one of the presidential elec
tors.
The Prohibition state ticket is as
follows: Governor, A. L. Gillerman,
Tacoma; lieutenant governor, Mrs.
Nettie Hellenbeck, Tacoma; secretary
of state, M. C. Van Tine, Chehalis;
state treasurer, Mrs. Mary M. Wade,
Seattle; state auditor, N. A. Thomp
son, Seattle; attorney general. Emmet
Nichols, Seattle; land commissioner,
J. W. Landon. Sumner; superintend
ent of public instruction, W. J. War
ren, Spokane, and insurance commis
sioner, F. H. Flanders, Spokane.
A. C. Caton of this city is the nomi
nee for congress from this, the Third
district, and Joseph A. Campbell of
Seattle the nominee* for United States
senator. The other presidential elec
tors besides Mr. McDowell of this city
are Mrs. Sophronie R. Lippy, Seattle;
John Anderson, Spokane; L. Stanton,
Belllngham; E. B. Crary, Hoquiam,
and R. M. Shumate and C. C. Grldley,
Vancouver.
cownrs in levy
io be sun less
PROPOSED BUDGET CONTEM
PLATES REDUCTION OF
NEARLY 8 MILLS.
Reduction of |38,<81 in the total
to be raised by taxation in Thurston
county next year under that raised
this year, meaning a reduction of
about 2% k mills in the county tax
levy, is provided for in the budget as
tentatively adopted by the county
commissioners. Further reductions
may be made by the commissioners
after greater consideration of certain
items, before the budget is finally
adopted and the levy fixed at their
first meeting in October.
While there is an Increase in sev
eral departments, notably in the
allowances for the superior court,
which are $4,600 more, for mothers'
pensions, which 1B increased $2,500,
and for the operation of the poor
farm and for indigent relief, which
are $2,030 more, the total amount of
the current expense fund from which
are paid the expenses of the different
county offices and departments, is
$15,181 less for 1917 than for the
current year, the 1917 total being
$51,509 and the 1916 $66,690.
Much Less for Roads.
In addition to this reduction, the
general road and bridge fund is $14,-
000 less, a cut of practically a mill,
the allowance for 1917 being $42,000
compared with $66,000 this year,
while the six road districts will get
along on SB,OOO less next year, using
$52,000 Instead of $60,000. A fur
ther saving of $5,000 is made pos
sible because there are no elections
next year.
The fact that the 1917 budget is
prepared with tbe view that the bud
get law to be voted on in November
may be adopted, makes it impossible
to offer any comparisons between the
allowances for the different depart
ments for 1916 and 1917. Under the
old system, various miscellaneous
items, such as telephone bills, stamps,
bond premiums, advertising and the
like were paid out of one general
fund, but this year each department
has had to estimate the amount it
will need,for these purposes for 1917
and to include It in its budget appro
priation. Consequently the various
departmental estimates are higher,
though the grand total Is $15,000
less.
Total to Be Raised *201,101).
The provides that Thurston
county shall raise $201,169 by taxa
tion next year, whereas the total this
year was $239,850. Of this amount
only $51,509, after the estimated re
ceipts of $17,000 and the cash on
hand of $20,000 are deducted, will
Continued on Page Eight
FORMER OLYMPIAN SEEKS
SHARE OF DENNY ESTATE
Eta L. Richmond of San Francisco
Starts Litigation Involving
Seattle Property.
The echo of a romance of pioneer
days in the Northwest and a hint of
filture litigation involving the prop
erty of the Denny family in Seattle
appeared in a petition filed in the su
perior court at San Francisco Tues
day for the restoration of a divorce
record destroyed in the big fire of
1906.
The petition was fled by Eva F.
Richmond and the records the court
is asked to restore are those of her
divorce from Orion O. Denny, grant
ed her September 5, 1884. Mrs. Rich
mond is the wife of F. L. Richmond
of San Francisco. Mrs. Richmond re
fUßed to tell her purpose in filing the
petition further than that it was sim
ply to have the old record restored.
She did say, however, that it was a
step in preparation for futher action
intended to obtain money due her
from the Denny estate.
Mrs. Richmond before her mar
riage to Orion Denny was Alva Coul
ter of this city and is well known
here. The Denny estate consists of
property valued at $400,000.
l£E CARRIES COIMf
IV SLIGHT IUR6I
HUMPHREY WINS OVER BRYAN
AND POINDEXTER—M'NEELEY
SECOND FOR GOVERNOR.
| Thurston county gave George A.
Lee a slight lead over James Mc-
Neeley of T acorn a for the Republican
gubernatorial nomination according
to the unofficial count of the results
of Tuesday's primary, with Roland
H. Hartley, the "open shop" candi
date. running third and about 15,0
votes behind.
The county went strong for Hum
phrey for senator, his total combined
first and second choice vote running
about 800 ahead of that for Bryan,
who took second place with a lead of
a liftle less than 100 over Polndexter.
Congressman Albert Johnson was re
nominated by about 4 to 1 over
Mayor Fawcett of Tacoma, while W.
W. Sherman, candidate for Btate
treasurer, ran nearly 700 votes ahead
of Carr of Pierce county.
Mrs. Preston Badly Beaten.
A striking feature of the vote on j
state candidates was that against
Mrs. Josephine Corliss Preston fori
re-nomination as state superintend
ent of public instruction, the county
giving M. E. Durham more than 900
more votes in the first and second
choice total than Mrs. Preston, and
putting Ruth C. Hoffman second
with about 90 less votes than Dur
ham and nearly 800 more than Mrs.
Preston.
The race between I. M. Howell and
W. H. Ford for secretary of state was
much closer than expected in this
county, though the former was about,
900 ahead. Clausen, however, de
feated Cromwell for auditor by a:
little more than 1,800.
In the senatorial race, Humphrey
ran first both on first choice and on
the first and second choice total, Bry
an pulling into second place through
a heavy second choice vote, Poindex
ter third, Mrs. John B. Allen fourth,
W. A. Spaulding fifth and Schuyler
Duryee sixth. The vote on these can
didates was as follows:
First Second
Candidate— Choice. Choice. Total
Humphrey 1884 479 —2363
Bryan 413 1134—1547
jPoindexter 852 599—1451
Mrs. Allen 219 652 771
Spalding 69 329 398
Duryee 52 234 286
The vote on congressman resuted:
Albert Johnson 2725, A. V. Fawcett
720.
The Vote for Governor.
j For governor, James McNeeley got
I the highest number of first choice
' votes, but Lee nosed him out by about
|SO votes for the honors when the
| tirst and second choice ballots were
combined. Hartley came third with
I only about 150 less than McNeeley.
'less than 300 votes separating the
| three leaders in the local count. Mc
i (Continued on Page 8.)
PRICE FIVE CENTS
SECOND ANNUAL MB DRAWING BIG CIMDS
MORE THAN 3,000 ATTENDED DURING FIRST THREE DAYS
BANNER CROWDS EXPECTED FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
EXHIBITS ARE LARGER AND BETTER THIS YEAR, RACES
EXCITING AND AMUSEMENTS LIVELY.
More than three thousand people, attracted by the excellence and
variety of the displays, the good racing program and an interesting
midway of concessions, visited the second annual Thurston County
Fair Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and the indications of good
weather for Friday and Saturday, the great interest displayed in the
exhibit, and the fine attendance of the previous days caused the Fair
managers to look forward to still larger attendance Friday and Sat
urday, and consequently a highly successful Fair from the financial
standpoint.
Wednesday, which was Olympia day, was the first big day of the
Fair, Monday having been entry day, and Tuesday's attendance hav
ing been cut down by the counter-attraction of the primary. But
Wednesday all the business houses in the city closed for the after
noon in compliance with Mayor Mottman's proclamation, and hun
dreds of residents of the city, together with large delegations from
the county, attended the Fair, until the total paid admissions ran
.lose to 1,600 and made the attendance for that day as large as any
day last year.
The fire weather of the week has been a big factor in the success of
the Fair and, providing it continues as is expected, the management
looks for a banner day Saturday. Friday, too, because *it is chil
dren's day, is expected to draw large crowds. Better racing pro
grams than were on the ticket last year are being offered this week,
one of the most interesting features of these being the running racec
for Thurston county horses, and the other entertainment features are
also better than last year. The fair grounds are open each night until
10 o'clock, the exhibits being closed, no admission fee being charged
.ind the evenings turned over to the amusements of the midway.
More and Better Displays.
Surveying the Fair as a whole, the visitor is compelled to satisfac
tion at the substantial increase in the quantity and the remarkable
increase in the qvfality of the displays, over the first annual show. In
?aeh department there are more exhibits and each one of them is
better than last year. The livestock division particularly is much
larger, the horse and cattle barn being entirely filled with entries.
COUNTY OPPOSITION
TICKETS IDENTICAL
NON-PARTISAN CANDIDATES AP
PARENTLY NOMINATED ALSO
ON DEMOCRATIC TICKET.
Not until the official count, which is
to be started next Tuesday, la com
pleted, will it be definitely know?
who are the nominees on the Non«
Partisan and Democratic county tick
ets in Tuesday's primary, as no un
official tabulations were made by pre
cincts officers of the Non-Partisan
ballots and unofficial returns were
received from only a few of the pre
cincts on the Democratic ticket.
Reports received from precincts
throughout the city and county indi
cate, however, that practically the
same persons were nominated on
both tickets, with the possible excep
tion of the senatorial and legislative
offices. The vote on both tickets was
very light throughout the county, 90
per cent of the vote that was cast at
the primaries being for candidates on
the Repubican state and county tick
ets.
Non-Partisan Ticket to Oppose Re
publican.
Indications are that, the Non
partisan movement having apparent
being identical, only the Non-Parti
san ticket will enter the field in op
position to the Republican nominees,
the Democrats supporting the Non
partisan movement having apperent
ly split their vote and nominated the
same persons on both tickets to in
sure only one opposition ticket in the
county campaign. The Democratic
| county central committee, having
twice previously unanimously en
dorsed the Non-Partisan movement,
there Is said to be no likelihood now
of its reversing that position.
At a meeting of various Democrats
in the office of Attorney Thos, M.
Vance Monday evening, it was de-
I elded to propose candidates on the
j Democratic ticket for offices for
; which DO one had regularly filed on
i the Non-Partisan ticket, and a com
mittee was named to propose nomi
nees. This was done, but the persons
| suggested apparenty failed of nomi
nation, the successful ones on this
1 ticket as well as on the Non-Partisan
apparently being those recommend
ed by the Non-Partisan campaign
' committee. No effort was made to
put a straight Democratic ticket In
the field.
On the legislative ticket, Attorney
Harry L. Parr received the most votes
in the Democratic primaries for state
Continued on Page Five.
WHOLE NUMBER 2925
The first of the exblbit teats
reached ia that housing the agrlcul*
tural-industrial display of the schools
of the county, the various new feat
ures of which add pleasingly to Its
sppsaraaco aad considerably to its
sise. 19#+ tea .shown all kinds of
vegetables, corn,apples, plums and
other fruit, all grown by school chil
dren; cakes and candy made by the
girls, and dresses and many smaller
articles in the sewing display; the
best manual training exblbit the
county bas ever had, according to
County Superintendent O. C. Ooss;
and displays of canning, mapdrawing,
watercolor work and penmanship.
There are individual farm exhibits
by Earl Lamberson of the eighth
grade of the Tumwater school, and
Joseph Ootchy of Rochester; a big
display of canned goods by the girls
of the I Kan Kan Klub of the Wash
ington school; individual canning .
displays by Ruth Haydeen and Ruth
Drewry; and some especially fine
cartoons by Frldolf Strand, an eighth
grade pupil of the Rochester schols,
just to mention a few of the many In
teresting exhibits in this division.
Not far from this tent is the agri
cultural-horticultural display of the
adulfs of the county, featured by dis
plays of cornstalks 14 to 15 feet high,
some of the finest sweet corn and
field corn the superitnendent, A. J.
Hay cox, says he has ever seen, and
by fine entries of squash potatoes,
mangelwurtcels, yellow danvers
onions, wheat, oats and other grains,
a feature of the latter Ming a stool
of wheat of 140 heads grown from
one grain of seed.
In the fruit line, there were soma
unusually good displays of apples,
Cherries, plums, pears and peaches
and among the vegetables, beans,
beets, cantaloupes, and the like. A
plate of large second-crop strawber
ries was a feature of this part of the
display.
The retarding weather of the
Spring and summer and the earllness
of the Fair worked against the agri
cultural display, say those who ex
amined it closely, some of the vege-
I tables and field crops not having had
time to mature, but the excellence of
the exhibit In spite of this weather
handicap was generally remarked
upon.
Women's Handiwork.
Adjoining this division Is the tent
In which Is displayed the textile and
culinary handiwork of the women of
the county, featured by the SI,OOO
lace coat made by Mrs. C. B. Nom
mensen. a SSOO dress and coat dis
played by Mrs. Fleming of St. Clair,
and an exhibit by Mrs. A. H. Hart
shorn of 115 different specimens of
flowers gathered by her along the
Klondike river at Dawson, Alaska.
Mrs. T>. M. Kagy is In charge of this
(Continued on Page S)
Published
Continuously
For 55 Years
