the
trite
VOLUME 62 Number 33
PAW PAW. MICHIGAN, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1916
Whole Number 4237
REPUBLICANS HELD
GREAT CONVENTION
Jas. E. Chandler of South
Haven made ringing re
publican speech, which
met approval of con
vention RENRY E. CHASE IS ENDORSED
For Attorney General. Delegate.
elected, new count committee
named and strung resolu
tions adopted.
The republicans of Van Buren
county met in convention at South
Haven on Tuesday. It was one of
the largest, most harmonious and en
thusiastic conventions held in the
county in years. But fwo precincts
in the county (Geneva and Colombia)
were without representation, and
nearly everyone was filled with a full
quota of delegates.
County chairman, It. W. Broughton,
called the convention to order, and
Earl Hemenway of South Haven read
the call. In a few brief remarks, Mr.
Broughton thanked the republicans
of the county for their support during
the past two years and earnestly .so
licited the enthusiastic support of the
county committee and republicans
generally in the coming campaign.
He expressed his gratification of the
honor conferred and made a strong
plea for a united support of the tick
et from top to bottom. He then call
ed James E. Chandler of South Haven
to the chair. Mr. Chandler confined
his remarks to national issues, and
made a ringing republican speech,
which was liberally applauded
throughout. T. B. Woodman of Taw
Paw was named secretary of the con
vention. RENIN E. CH VSE
Former Van Buren bounty boy, who
was deputy attorney general for
over twenty years, indorsed
for Attorney General by
republicans in county
convention Tuesday.
The chair announced the following
committees:-
Credentials :-G. A. Dillenbeck, Law
rence; John Marshall, Porter; Orlo
Westgate, South Haven; H. J.'sion -
aker, Pine Grove; George W. Cain,
South Haven 1st, Ward.
Permanent Organization and Order of
Business:- C. D. Myers, Bloomingdale;
F. G. Cleveland, Arlington; P. M.
Young, Decatur; C. M. Van Riper,
ii .e m t a. ui , cessions win oe more numerous man l a a .vw,;-..,
Hartford; T. J. Mutchler, Bangor. I . . , . . . (been known and American industries
t i a r- r nr T1 at the previous fairs, and taken in its Lj .tunw. n.n4,..u
Resolutions:- Glenn E. Warner. Paw i T, T, . and American labor is producing for
Paw; C. O. Monroe, South Haven; J. ent,rety th" an 1uren Count' , air the civilized world.
C. Kennedy, Almena; I, J. Lewis, P''m'7. n ProPortlon We re.ten.te our silefiaJMM to the
Bangor; Don F. Cochrane, Hartford; 'VNOar , , , . . , principles of Democracy and to the
Tellers:- I.. H. Bolinger, Almena; ' Ih' trade h;c. already been infonn- , )oniorratic partv an1 pledge Wood
George EL Mailer, Columbia; Luther of the cclhod Plan and thc rlotlrow Wilson our enthusiastic support,
t. Moore, Covert; Clifton Pierc(, ''s are showing great interest in ! Wc conjfratuiate the citizens of
Geneva; and George Davis. Waverly. itho samc' The rrcatost an,ount of,Mich.gan upon the business like ad
Follow mg are the delegates elected ; ,ntorost contors around thc 'luest.on. I;lini ,t,ati()n of Woodbridge N. Ferris,
to attend the .fate convention at;"VViI1 """i hott,'r We commend him for his fairness and
Saginaw n September 28th. pnce than thos ,ot ,nsP('(,t((, lf so integrity, his impartiality in dealing
R. W. Broughton ami W. C Mo. it r hoV' ,nuch bcttrr-" w ith all public questions, his untiring
Paw Paw; Charles King and GeOfgl ai ' ai affoftl at all time.- to maintain antl
vdams, Bangor; John Wtmdham.-. ONLY ONE IN THE COUNTY. 1 increase the dignity and prestige of
B twerp; Martin Knolla, Decahirj kur great state and congratulate him
George W. Mernman. Hartford; L. T. j W Broughton has received an upon his success in dealing wisely
Chase, Lawrence; Floyd Crawford, (invitation to be present at the annual land justly with every question that
Covert; N. F. Simpson Jr. Heeler; meeting of the Supreme Council 33rd, .has arisen during his term of oflicc.
Lnn J. Lewis, Arlington: Jas. E.
Chandler, South Haven 2nd. Ward; T.
If. Ransom, Bloomingdale; H. J.
Slonaker, Pine Grove; R. B. Taylor,
(Continued on page 5)
CELEBRATED THEIR
GOTH. ANNIVERSARY
Married at Steuben, Indiana, Sept.
7th, 1856, Lester B. Crawford and
Mill Mary Burrell. One year later
they moved to Arlington, where last
week Thursday, September 7th,
about one hundred and forty of their
friends met at the home of their son
Hiram, to celebrate the sixtieth an
niversary of their wedding. A sump
tuous dinner was served at noon,
after which a couple of fine rockers
were presented by I. P. Hates in token
of the esteem in which this estimable
couple are held bv their friends. 1
Then a fine program was enjoyed.
nt Qut of the
were, Daniel Eckler, Detroit, who
MXTed three vears with Mr. Crawford
in Company three, Third Michigan
Cavalry; Mrs. Samuel Kelley of
Lansing and Mrs. Combs of St.
Joseph Co., Andrew Cochrane, the
first white child born in Arlington
township was present. The living de
cendantl of Mr. and Mrs. Crawford
are three children, seventeen grand
; children and six great grand children.
WORTHY OF EMI LATION,
Glenn Showennea leaves this week
to resume his work in the Dental
jollcge at Indianapolis. Indiana.
Glenn is made of the stuff that wins.
During the months of his summer
vacation he has worked nearly every
day, and he has not been particular
either ai to the kind of work he did.
Anything to keep busy and earn a j
dollar was good enough for Glenn.!
. . . - . ..
His example is worthy of emulation
by any young man who has his way
to make in the world.
EXTENSIVE PLANS
F
FOR COUNTY
i
At Hartford October 2 10 th6 Udin P,ac of the loot
6 inclusive- Substantial
increase in premiums
this year
That the exhibition department at
lli- Van Buren County Fair, to be held
at Hartford from October 2nd, to Cth,
will be filled to overflowing is the
prophecy of the department superin
t ndente.
A substantial increase in the prem
iums to be paid has increased interest
among the exhibitors. In the live
stock department! the increase is
moat marked, and the increased prem
ium money is expected to bring to
gether the largest exhibits of horses
cattle, sheep and swine that south
western Michigan has seen.
I Likewise liberal entries are already
being made in the various depart
ments in the floral hall. Double the
usual space has, been reserved for the the fact that durinK trvinK M.ltt.iwan; F. H. (i.ddings, Lawton;
school exhibits under the direction of there was one holdiBg tnat nign ! Fre1 W. Stark, Gobleville; Wm.
County Commissioner E. V. Root, andoffice who tenaciouslv a(ihered to a Harrison, Bloomingdale; J. E. Erken
extra demands for space are being, poHcv whid) guaranteed f reedom ' beck, Grand Junction; V. H. Dilley,
made by other departments. frQm entanK,ementa witn other Lacota; M. Enlow, Covert; Fred Simp
Outside the floral hall the Grange lnations hat mht result in war anfl son Hartford; Newton Foster, Keeter
and (Jleaner exhibits will be housed i . th pvprastinir ratitudP 1 Harry Martin. Lawrence: F.
'in tent- and more tents are being
engaged to house the overflow from
other departments than have ever
been used at the fair before.
1 " " V u l iT " ' : '
rtnts Jf the Krowth of the fair
ls shown' amusements and con-
I. lm . 1 . . U tl ,.. l.il.,4 .. A
degree Masons to be held at Pitts-
burgh Pennsylvania on September
Mfthf. Mr. Broughton has thc dis-
'tinction of being the only mason in
Van Buren county who has been
honored with the 33rd degree.
THINGS TO FORGET.
I rjSttff-
0 TOO POO61
'umve
9 "
I
HALE BURGLARY HAS
BEEN CLEARED UP
The farmers of Kalamazoo county
me nuie ouigiai wnwn eucu j
i j li. :a. i. :.. ii :j ..r
consmeraoie exciiemem, in uie cu ui
.South Haven last week has been
Cleared up. Kl lvagel an employee ,
in the store and Arthur Hinz were the
guilty parties. They entered the
store, opened the vault and took about , the Western Stat. Normal, Prof.
$800.00 in currency, coin and checks. Wil(ler of the u. S. Department of
These parties have been under suspic- j Agriculture, W. H. Smith president of
ion by the officers and last Friday ithe Kaiamazoo Countv Farm Bureau,
morning after a "Third Degree" by rp Farrand of the VanBuren
She. ilT Beatt.e and Detective St. John County ,,arm BureaUf Jason Wood
of the Pinkerton Detective agency j mun an(, ()thers The weathc.r was
lasting nearly al night, Hinz owned U an(, evervthin(? conspired to
ii- 1 A. 1. 11. ! 1 1
up uie coin, aim look uie omcer io;
DEMOCRATS MET IN CCUNTY CONVENTION AT HARTFORD
TUESDAY. PASS RESOLUTIONS AND SELECT DELEGATES
Following are the resolutions adopt
ed by the democrats in county con-
.vention Tuesday.
We the Democrats of Van Buren
.County in convention assembled
'pledge ourselves to the doctrines and
traditions of the Democratic Party as
illustrated by the precepts and ex
amples of Thomas Jefferson, Samuel
J. Tilden. WilliaYn Jennings Bryan
and Woodrow Wilson and as embod
ied in the Democratic National Plat-
L -
t declare our confidence in the. The following named persons were
wisdom, patriotism and integrity of elected delegates to the State Con
Woodrow Wilson, president of these vention. O. M. Vaughan and A .C.
United State.-. Human of South Haven, T. J. Cavan-
We commit uhite the countrv unon :iuirh Paw Paw: A. H. Campbell,
q hjs party hjs countpy and the
I whole people.
We point with pride to the fact
that while the wage earners of
'EurPe are in mortal conflict
America is launche(1 upon an era of
rprosspepitv ,uch as has never before
We heartily endorse his administra-
i tion as one equal to any in the
history of the state and greatly regret
his decision not to accept a nomina
tion to succeed himself.
We have nominated for some of the
FARMERS PICNIC AT
THE WOODMAN FARMS
mMje their ftnnuftj trip to the Jason
v00(lman farm last Saturday. About
u0rty auto loads made the trip. A
.. dinnr.r U..1S oni()VO(i ()nthe
spacious lawns after which short talks
were made by Dr. Ernest Burnham of
.!. th,. (i.,v. innir tn ufl PAmtY1KAtH
by those present.
county offices capable, upright, honest
men to whom we pledge OUT undivid-
ed rapport ami call upon the people
of Van Buren County regardTeat of
party politics to unite with us in
securing their election in November
next.
John C. Dorgan
T. J. Cavanaugh
A. W. Mosier
C. J. Leech
M. A. Hale
COMMITTEE
' stapleton, Decatur; Frank Hutchins,
and George Hathaway, Porter; Omar
Miller, Bangor.
There was a meeting of the candid
ates and of the county committee. A.
Lynn Free who was nominated by
slips for Judge of Probate withdrew
and the question of naming his suc
cessor was put up to the committee.
The Committee however, feeling that
Judge Killefer had given his undivid
ed time and attentions to the duties
of the office and had made an excell-
ent Probate Judge by an unanimous
vote refused to place anyone on the
ticket in opposition to him and endor
sed his administration.
The Committee and Candidates
elected H. A. Cole, Secretary of the
County Committee and Wm. H. Long
well. Treasurer.
Andrew H. Gaynor,
Democratic
canidate for sheriff was present at
this meeting and informed the com -
mittee and convention that notwith -
standing anything saitl to the con
trary he was in the race to win and
would ask the support of flic vot. i
of Van Buren County, announcing
that if elected he would give his at
tention to the duties of the office and
not to politics.
STAR ENTERTAINED
FOR NOTED GUESTS
Members of Paw Paw chapter O. E.
S. enjoyed a very pleasant function
at their chapter room on Wednesday
evening. The occasion was a visit
from Mrs. Ruth Ludlow Bangham of
Albion, Worthy Grand Matron of the
Grand Chapter of Michigan. Other
guests of honor were, Mrs. Emma
Ocobock, acting Most Grand Worthy
Matron of the General Grand Chapter,
Mrs. Wilkenson, Worthy Matron of
(the Hartford Chapter and President
of the county association O. E. S.
and Mrs. Maynard all of Hartford.
Supper was served in the dining room
at six-thirty o'clock, after which the
work of the order was exemplified.
Worthy Matron Carrie Sirrine, and
her officers of the chapter received
much praise fr the excellence of the
"Work" and the success of the eve
ning in general. On behalf of the
chapter Mamie E. Wakeman present
ed a basket of flowers to the distin
guished guests, Mrs. Bangham and
Mrs. Ocobock.
STUFF THAT SPELLS SUCCESS.
Clarence O. Hawley who has been
spending a vacation among his Paw
Paw relatives and friends returned to
his work fast Friday. Ho is a senior
this year in the Union Theological
seminary in New York city, and will
also do special work at Columbia .
University. He has an appointment
in the church at Norwood, N. J.
which he fills in connection with histhe Board of Supervirs at their
college work. Clarence is made of
the stuff that spells Success, and has
a brint future before him.
ii
M
FOR THE BUTTLE
Have active list of officers
in every precinct in the
e i
county for efficient work
The County Dry Campaign Com
mittee is making plans to wage a
vigorous battle for state-wide prohi
bition from now until the election
officer- of the
nvfvwww .v... x..v- w...x w. v..
association are: Sheldon Coleman,
president, kawtonj David Anderson,
vice president, Paw Paw; W. C.
Mosier, secretary. Paw Paw; Carl
Wolfs, treasurer , Paw Paw; C. E.
Lewis, manager, Lawton. The first
four, together with the following,
constitute the executive committee:
John C. Stafford, Lawrence; Dr. J. B.
Stewart, Hartford; Morris Russel,
Bangor; Samuel Wilson, South llayen
Ellis Simon, Bloomingdale.
Following are the township vice
presidents :
Almena B. W. Tracy
Arlington Charles Southerby
Antwerp A. H. Campbell
Bangor F. E. Burger
Bloomingdale Al Hodgman
Columbia C. G. Chamberlin
Covert J. R. Spellman
Decatur O. D. Newell
Geneva Roy Griffin
Hamilton Waldo Philips
Hartfofd Frank Simpson
Keeler Charles Rosevelt
Lawrence George L. Rich
Paw Paw H. D. Spicer
Pine Grove H. M. Kingsley
Porter D. L. Thornton
Waverly W. C. Gault
South Haven A. D. Moore
S. Haven City C. O. Monroe,
Willis Hal leek and William New
combe. Parties desiring speakers for meet
ings, literature or information in re-
grd to the campaign, should addn
the -secretary, the manager or their
own township vice president.
TAKEN To HOSPITAL.
Charles Bilsborrow who has been
suffering with a huge carbuncle was
taken to the Bronson hospital, Kala-
ma zoo last Friday for an operation
.Dr. Balseh performed the operation
: on Saturday, and he is resting as com-
fortablc as could be expected. It will
probably be another week at least be
fore he can be brought home.
Attention is called to the change in
Sunday train schedule. See new time
table in this issue.
ORGANIZED
SURVEY STARTED
OH COUNTY ROADS
Started on Dixie Highway
and will survey three
main trunk lines
through the'
county
DANA P. SMITH IS ENGINEER
Estimates will be made from present
survey and presented to Super
visors for approvHl
The Van Buren County Road Com
missioners commenced the work of
surveying the various trunk lines as
laid out in the county last Tuesday
morning. Surveyor Dana P. Smith
who has been appointed County
Engineer has charge of the work.
The work was started at the east
county line on the Dixie Highway.
The two other main trunk lines to be
surveyed are from South Haven
through Bangor, Glendale and Al
mena, making a line through the
northern part of the county, and one
through the central . part, leaving the
Dixie Highway just west of Paw Paw
and on through Lawrence, Hartford
and to Watervliet. These three main
,ines Nvil, receive attcntion first and
the objftct of the survev is to
k estimates to be nresented to
coming October session, for their
approval. Taxes will then be levied",
and the work started next year. The
Federal government has appropriated
a large sum of money for road build
ing, and Van Buren county will un
doubtedly get some substantial finan
cial assistance in building at least
some of the main lines. It is prob
able that the Dixie Highway, and
Detroit to Chicago paved way will be
the first to get Federal assistance.
It is hoped that the Supervisors
will decide to start one line and com-
Plete 11 before starting another. It
will be of much less expense to the
, , M .,. ,:iti,l!U.t(.v in the
long run, than to build a piece of
road here and another there, to satis
fy for the time being perhaps some
other part of the county. This is one
of the most important pieces of work
the county ever attempted, and should
I ho mmuIim
, rH. conducted ant
Imginees standpoint,
FOR FIRSI TIME
State Inspector at Paw
Paw and another at Law
ton. First time in his
tory of industry.
For the first time Michigan Certi
fied Grapes will be put upon the
market this fall. The certified grapes
will be the very finest of the fruit
grown in the Michigan Grape Belt.
They will have been passed upon by
state inspectors and for every carload
of grapes that come up to the high
standard established by the Michigan
Director of Markets a formal certifi
cate will be issued, said certificate to
accompany the bill of lading. The
certificate will say that the grapes in
the car specified are "mature, sound,
clean, of ripe color, practically free
from rot. mildew, mold, diseases and
insects, true to name for variety in
dicated, medium to large berries,
bunches well formed and compact;
packages of loal size and-full weight.
Arrangements have been completed
to station two inspectors in the grape
section, one at Paw Paw and the other
at Lawton. Whenever enough fruit
of the high standartl called for above
to fill a car is delivered at the loading
station the same will be inspected and
certificate issued.
TELEGRAPH UP TOW .
The Western Union telegraph office
is now located in the Laverty Variety
store, and E. R. Laverty is the court
eous and efficient operator. Thi
change will be a great benefit to the
public, and their appreciation should
be shown in every way possible.
GRAPES
