THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post.
orfice at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VII. NO. 20. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, SEPTEMBER 15, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
REPUBLICANS
SWEEP MAINE
Portland, Me., Sept. 12.-Maine Re.
publicans, re-inforced by returning
Progressives, won a signal victory at
the election held throughout the state.
They elected a governor, an auditor,
two United States senators and four
representatives in congress and
wresting control of the state house of
representatives from the Democrats,
will be able on a joint vote of the
legislature to elect the other state of
ficers not chosen by popular vote.
Carl E. Milliken lead his ticket, de
feating Governor Oakley C. Curtis,
whom sought re-election, by a plural
ity of approximately 13,000.
The Republican drift extended to
county officers, the greater number
of counties choosing Republican coun
ty attorneys and sheriffs. Their of
fices are important locally because the
holders are charged with enforcing the
prohibition law.
Johnson Is Defeated.
United States Senator Charles F.
Johnson, whose wide popularity had
given the Democrats great hope of his
return, was defeated by Frederick
Hale, son of the former senator, by
approximately 9,500 votes. For the
short term seat in the senate former
Governor Bert M. Fernald defeated
Kenneth C. M. Sills, dean of Bowdoin
college, by 12,000.
L. B. Goodall won from L. A. Ste
vens in the First congressional dis
trict by 3,000. Congressman John A.
Peters regained his seat, defeating
John F. Bunker in the Third district
by 4,000. Ira G. Hersey defeated Leon
ard A. Pierce in the Fourth district by
f5,09f0.
Balloting Is Heavy.
The vote was heavy, as had been
expected, for the campaign had been
waged with a determination not seen
in recent years. The country was
searched out for speakers of national
prcminence and the greater number of
theee battled on national issues.
The fight was particularly hot for
the two United States senatorships
and the four places held by Maine in
the lower house at Washington.
National defense, the tariff and the
eight-hour law for railway men loomed
up large in the speeches.
The Progressives, who, two years
ago, cast 18,22t votes, returned largely
to the Republican party in opinion of
Republican leaders.
The closest light was for representa
tive from the Second district, where
Representative Daniel J. McGillicuddy
was defeated by Wallace H. White,
Jr., by 500 plurality.
IMMENSE STEEL
SPAN COLLAPSES
Quebec, Que., Sept. 12.-With the
loss of eleven lives the second attempt
to bridge the St. Lawrence river re.
suited in a failure when the massive
center span, weighing 5,100 tons, sud"
denly collapsed and fell into the river,
Of the ninety men caught on the span
when it began to sway, all were res
cued except eleven and of these only
four bodies have been found.
The bridge was being constructed
at a cost of $17,000,000 to shorten the
railway journey from Halifax to the
Canadian Northwest by 200 miles.
The bridge stands on the site of
the structure which collapsed Aug. 29,
1917, with a loss of seventy lives.
The central span which fell weighs
more than 5,000 tons and is 640 feet
long.
Th: collapse occurred when the span
way about fifteen feet in the air.
floats from among the hundreds of
spectators' craft were rushed to the
spot where the span disappeared. The
river at that point is 200 feet deep
and engineers expressed doubts as to
whether the span could be raised or
not.
Observers said that the span broke.
in two places, one of the corners first
appearing to give way, followed al
most immediately by a break in the
center.
ZAIMIS RESIGNS
CABINET POSTI
Lendon, Sept. 12.-A ministerial
crisis is imminent in Athens. Pre
mler Zaimis, the champion of Kingi
Constantine in the present turmoil of
Greek politics, is believed already to
have tendered his resignation.
This news was brought to London
in a Reutel' dispatch from Athens.
For the first time in weeks a dayl
passed without spectacular feature in
some of the various war theaters. On
none of the fronts was a crushing blow
delivered by any of the belligerents
and none of the war chancelleries re
ported any great gain by its armies
in the field.
Probably the most significant move
was that of the British in the Struma
region of the Greek Macedonia front.
British Cross Struma.
Here the British, after hard fight
ing, threw their forces across the
Struma at Neochori, at the southern
end of Lake Tahinos, which lies be
tween Seres and Orfona, and at sev
eral other places near the lake. In ad
dition four villages were captured and
held, notwithstanding heavy counter
attacks by the Teutonic allies.
Whether this offensive by the Brit
B ish means the commencement of an
attempt at a drive through Bulgaria
or is merely a maneuver to throw the
British line nearer Kavala, which is
about twenty-five miles east of Necho
ri, has not yet been made apparent.
From the west of the Vardar river to
Lake Doiran the French are bombard
e ing Bulgarian positions violently and
on the front held by the Serbians the
Bulgarians have been compelled to
withdraw.
Roumanians Pursue Foe.
In the Roumanian theater the Aus
trians are in retreat before the Rou
t manians in the Maros and Toplitza
Valleys, while to the south of Her
m nannstadt the Roumanians have oc
r cupied the village of Helimsar. Vi
enna admits a further withdrawal of
2 the Austrian forces near Oyergo.
Heavy fighting continues in Dobrud
ja and there have been small infantry
engagements along the entire Danube
front, but in neither region has any
important change in position taken
t place.
On the Eastern front, according to
V Berlin, Russian attacks along the
Stokhod river, northwest of Kovel, and
in Galicia betwe "n the Dniester and
Slota Lipa rivers with Halicz the
1 objective, failed with sanguinary
losses to the Russians.
Except for bombardments and the
repulse of German counter attacks,
Monday was without special incident
on the Somme front in France.
c
FIFTEEN CHINAMEN
KILLED BY YAQUIS g
Nogales, Ariz., Sept. 12.-Yaquis S
raided Santa Barbara, Sonora, twenty n
miles southeast of here, killing fifteen
Chinamen, according to reports re. C
ceived at the commandancia in No.
gales, Sonora. t
Fifty-five Indians wade up the' band,
which recently had ridden rapidly e
north from the Hermosillo district,
burning, killing and looting. li
Numbers of ranchers in the border t
zone have made their way into the '7
city, while. (arranza troops from the r
garrison across the border have been c
in pursuit of the outlaws. t
Military authorities on the Ameri- a
can side expressed a belief the In- t
dians would not attempt to cross the l
frontier.
Borden to Build Another Ship.
Nome, Alaska, Sept. 12.-John Bor
den, the millionaire sportsmen of Chi
cago, whose power schooner Great
Bear was wrecked on a pinnacle rock n
in Bering sea Aug. 11, left for Seat
tle, accompanied by his guest, Norris
Bokum, a business man of Chicago.
Borden says that he will build anoth- P
er boat next winter, engage Captain c
Louis L. Lane, his partner of this e
year, as commander and set out on an
other Bering sea and Arctic ocean n
cruise. -J
Actress Target of Jealous Lover. e
Antigo, Wis., Sept. 12.--Frank Cal
gona, Gary, Ind., shut three times at
Mrs. Helen Dunn, actress in a traveln
ing company on a train here. Galgona
was in a jealous rage. He fired at
Robert Simons, supposed to be his v
rival, but missed. Then he wounded a
himself in the head and is in a hos- o
pital here, near death. The firing was
in Mrs. Dunn's apartment on the train. e
Her injuries are slight.
a
Steamer Racing for Port. t
San Francisco, Sept. 12.-The steam
er Beaver, en route from Portland,
Ore., to San Francisco, is racing for
this port with a fire in her after hold,
according to a wireless message re
ceived here by her owners, the San
Francisco and Portland Steamship I
company. The message stated that
the fire was under control and that the
passengers were in no danger.
Will Speak on Prohibition
Dr. Geo. A. Henry, one of the leaders
of the Anti-Saloon League forces in
America, will speak at the "Montana
Dry" rally, Monday, Sept. 18, at 8
p. m. in Scearce's hall.
CARTER. I. New VevttalugBag R
CARRANZA (TO UNCLE SAM): "GIDDAP!"
ENFORCING STOCK OPDI
NANCE UNCAVERS LAWYER-3
As a result of the town council en
forcing the stock ordinance prohibiting
the running at large of stock within
the corporate limits, many men learned
in the law have been brought to light.
Poundmaster Sam Pierre is credited
with saying that Ronan contains more
luminous legal lights than any city in
the big wide world, many of whom have
read the law to him from A to Z. How
ever that may be, the city pound was
well filled the first of the week and the
commons, street and alleys of the city
were entirely free from stock at large.
Few of the residents of Ronan who
were owners of stock caught in the
general round-up the latter part of last
week are complaining above a whisper,
but some of the stockmen residing out
side of town who had stock taken up
made quite healthy protests and
threaten contesting the right of the
city to impound their stock. All of
them paid the charges assessed against
them and drove their stock out.
The city authorities have decided to
enforce the ordinance prohibiting stock
from runniug at large within the city
limits and remonstrances to the con
trary will undoubtedly have no effect.
The legality of the ordinance and the
right of the town to enforce it may be
1 contested in the courts, but it will have
to come some time and that time might
as well be itow as later. In the mean
time, owners of stock will save them
selves trouble and expense by keeping
their stock up.
School Notes
We have an unusually large Fresh
man class in the Ronan high school this
year. There are fifteen pupils who
have enrolled in the class and we have
prospects of more. Some of the upper
classmen are still in the fields but are
expected to be seen in school soon.
This year marks the beginning of our
new system in the high school, the
Junior and Senior plan. The seventh,
eighth and ninth grades make up the
Junior high school and the three upper
grades the Senior. This makes our
I high school enrollment 42; total enroll
ment in high school and grades is 150.
The new building will be completed
3 within three weeks. The fourth, fifth
I and sixth grades and high school will
- occupy it, and the pupils are all im
patient to enter the new building where
everything will be new. The high
school pupils are especially enthusiastic
about the new assembly room, which is
the filst of its kind in the district.
The opening of school marked the
absence of the familiar presence of
Miss Rafferty, who is this year teach
ing in Missoula. Miss Armstrong of
Missoula, is taking her place in the
lower grades.
t
s Mystery Surrounds Servant's Death
Green Bay, Wis., Sept. 12.-Mystery
surrounds the death of Miss TIllie
1 Girard, twenty-seven years old, a do
mestle employe by Dr. J. J. Bellin
a who was found dead in her room. A
, note, in which she said she was tirec
a of living, was found and it is believer
8 she took poison, although there is na
clue to bear out that theory.
SUGAR BEET INFORMA
TION OBTAINED BY ASKING
The Missoula Chamber of Commerce
has issued a booklet concerning the ad
vantages and profits to farmers who
grow sugar beets, and any farmer may
obtain a copy by applying to the see
I retary at Missoula. This booklet con
tains a number of letters written in re
ply to inquiries by Senator Brower,
addressed to bankers in Colorado and
at Billings where other beet sugar fac
tories are located, and are printed for
the information of farmers who are un
acquainted with sugar beet cultivation.
From the letters received by Senator
Brower and reproduced in the booklet,
it seems that farmers in Colorado are
netting from $40 to $50 per acre and
the increase in land values has been
from $35 and $40 per acre to $150 and
$250 per acre. The letters also state
that alfalfa sold before the factories
were built at from $3 to $3.50 per ton,
while now they are receiving from $6
to $7 per ton for their hay. Stock
feeding has also increased in every lo
cality and all farmers are doing much
better than before the factories were
built. The letters show that the net
income has increased from the land
production and the increase in farm
values are also high.
The Pioneer hopes that every reader
of the paper on the Flathead will send
for a copy of this booklet and read
every word printed- -then make a con
tract for growing some acres of sugar
beets.
PLANS ARE MA1I'RING
FOR LEON LOCAL FAIR
The people of Leon and vicinity are
planning enthusiastically for a local
fair to be held just before the Missoula
county fair, the idea being to have the
fun which a fair will afford, an dalso a
proper means to select from the ma
te.ial exhibited a good supply for the
Missoula county fair. The fair will
be held at the Leon consolidated school
at a date to be definitely determined
later, probably the last Saturday in
September. A large number of ex
hibitors are expected in each depart
ment which has been provided for, and
all who are within reach and interested
in the products and the people of the
vicinity, are cordially invited to attend
and bring their baskets of lunch. For
those who do not care to bring baskets,
or who wish something additional, hot
coffee, sandwiches and ice cream will
be provided.
The departments planned for include
exhibits in general farm, live stock and
poultry, field and garden produce,
school projects, a baby show, house
hold articles of food and raiment, plain
and fancy, athletic stunts, flowers, etc.
A social good time is assured to all.
The committee recently appointed by
the Parents'-Teachers' association to
cooperate in arranging for the fair con
sists of the following persons:
M. M. Marcy, A. Johnson, H. K.
White, Mrs. Joe Allard, Mrs. Joe
Kerns, Mrs. G. J. Haid, Mrs. S. R.
The various departments are ap
portioned to sub-committees, the names
of whom will be made public later.
BILL PASSES SENATE
TOO LATE FOil ACTION
In the closing hours of the session
the sen ate passed the 600-acre grazing
homestead bill, with some amendments. Fl
It had already passed the house. It Ai
did not pass the senate, however, in ar
time for the house to act on the amend- is
ments and for the bill to be enrolled be- Ti
fore adjournment. The bill retains its he
status. though. At the beginning of try
the December session it will come up is
in the house, when the amendments ca
will be concurred in order to confirm th
to the senate action and be disposed of.
Senator Myers says the bill is sure to la
become a law by Jan. 1. It applies to da
all public land states and provides for ca
homestead entry of 640 acres of such is1
character that it takes that much to be
support a family and is not susceptible
of irrigation but is capable of growing sy
some forage crops. Persons who have, of
homesteaded lands of that character in
less quantity than 640 acres may enter bc
enough additional to make that area, te
whether contiguous or not. gs
th
SEEK MYSTERIOUS WIDOW r
New Principal in Case of Rich Chica.
go Recluse.
Chicago, Sept. 12.-Entrance of a a
mysterious widow into the case of Ed- ar
ward W. Morrison, eccentric recluse at
1 millionaire, caused Federal Judge
Landis to urge a search for the widow, N
said to be a Mrs. Teckla Cephart of a.
Los Angeles, Cal.
Morrison, it is charged, was fleeced
a out of several hundred thousand dol- st
lays. c
James I. Ward, Morrison's deposed l
lawyer and holder of about $1,500,000 cc
- of the aged millionaire's estate, testi- A
- fled $18,000 of Morrison's money went
- to Mrs. (ephart in payment of a note. di
ca
SHUTS OUT PROHIBITIONISTS tic
--- pr
r Charleston, W. Va., Sept. 12.-Stuart
- F. Reed, secretary of state of West po
Virginia, refuses to certify the list of stb
r candidates for presidential electors as
and judges of the stipreme court of
appeals nominated by the Prohibition an
party. on
This action was taken as a result of sti
an opinion rendered by Attorney (len tri
I eral A. Lilly, in which he held that th
5 the Prohibition party Was not a po stt
a litical party as defined in the state by
primary election law.
FAMILIES SPLIT
ON CAMPAIGN
Wasi'ngh t.--Fa.iles are 1iving di
vided by tie lireset. polidtial issues.
Here are a few example:: J. A. 11.
Hopkins of New Jersey is treasurer of
the ]rogressive (geniltte) tutloitl corn
nrittvo antd hals atllounced nth1at lie er
sonally favors the re-election of WVil
sou. Mrs. lHolklnis is ai member of the
WVomuii's party and will take the
stump and do all she can to prevent
the election of Wilson.
Gifford linuehot is for Hughes and
all the militarism Hughes and his
backing can secure. Antos Pinchot, his
broiher, is a member of the American
Union Agalust Militarism and will sup
port Wilson as the lesser of two evils.
Itepreseiuative William Kent of Call
fornii is a wild eyed enthusiast for
Wllson and is heandiig a Wilson non
partisan league, wAhilo Mrs. Kvnt is a
metthet of the Womin's larty niitt
viii stump :for the defeat of Wilson.
George Middleton hitts allied himself
with the group of writers who have
announced themselves for Wilson,
while his wile, Fola La Follette, is one
of the members of the Congressional
union who will told Wilson responsible
for the defeat of the Susan 3. Anthony
amendment. Meredith Nicholson Is a
Wilson supporter, but Mrs. Nicholson
will write and stutpi against Wilson
on account of his attitude toward the
federal suffrage amendment. Mrs.
Louis F. Post is a member of the Wo
man's Peace party and an ardent Tol
stoyan pacifist. Louis F. Post, assist
ant secretary of labor, is for the ad
ministration's "reasonable" program
of preparedness.
TEACHER ENDS HIS LIFE
Jamestown, N. D., Sept. 12.-Pro
fessor Theodore Wanner, head of the
chemistry and physics department at
J Fargo college several years, was
found drowned in James rirer.
He wandered from the home of his
sister last Thursday morning.
One theory is overstudy at the Uni
versity of Wisconsin, where Professor
Wanner was taking post graduate
work preparatory to taking his chair
at Wahpeton Science school this fall,
caused an unbalanced mind.
ASSERTS MOVE
IS NATION-WIDE
New York, Sept. 12.-William B.
Fitzgerald, general organizer of the
Amalgamated Association of Electric
and Street Railway Employes, which
is conducting the Interborough Rapid
Transit strike, in a statement issued'
here, asserted the "effort" of local
traction interests to destroy the union
is "the forerunner of a movement by
capital to crush organized labor
throughout the country."
"President Wilson just enacted into
law the principles of the eight-hour
day," Fitzgerald said. "Organized
capital does not intend that such leg
islation shall remain on the statute
books.
"The struggle in this city is only a
symptom of the purpose and intention
of organized capital."
President Shonts, head of the Inter
borough and "green car" surface sys
tems, replied to this by saying:
"Labor organizers came here to or
ganize this town and if they succeed
they will do to this city what the
railroad brotherhoods did to the gov
ernment."
Situation More Serious.
With surface car transit virtually at
a standstill in Manhattan, the Bronr
and parts of the Westchester county
and with subway and elevated facili
ties affected, the traction situation in
New York assumed a more serious
aspect.
The first demonstration of a sympa
thetic strike came when union team
sters employed by the brickmaking
concerns quit their posts rather than
haul sand to the New York Railway
company power houses.
Hugh Frayne, organizer for the
American Federation of Labor, pre
dicts that a sympathetic strike will be
called within a week among several
trades closely affiliated with the opera
tion of traction lines, numbering ap
proximately 70,000 men.
These will include longshoremen,
power house employes, teamsters and"
statoinary engineers and firemen, he
asserts.
Disorder occurred at several points
and arrests were frequent. One ser
ous demonstration occurred when
strikers piled cobblestones on the
track, stopping a surface car, which
they stoned. A woman passenger was
stunned when she was knocked down
by the rush to get off the car.
TOO FOND OF THEIR FINERY
High School Girls of Kansas City May
Wear Uniforms.
Kansas City, Sept. 12.-All high
school girls in Kansas City may be
forced to wear a uniform style of
dress and radical reform may come
within the city schools.
Resolutions will be acted upon at
the next meeting of the board of edu
cation.
The resolutions set forth that many
girls are sibordinating their studies
to their clothes and that this Is hav
ing an unwholesome effect upon school
life.
The action was taken following dis
closures that two girls had refused to
attend school because their clothes
were not as good as those of other
students.
Rear Admiral Hendee Dead.
Brookline, Mass., Sept. 12.-Rear
Admiral George E. Hendee, U. S. N.,
retired, died at his home here. He
was born in Boston seventy-five years
ago and was retired in 1902 after more
than forty years' coptinuous service
in the paynaster's division of the
navy depart ment. He took part in
many naval engagements during the
Civil war.
Boy of Twelve Kills Brother.
Davenport, In., Sept. 12.-Fred Wen
zel, six years old, of New Liberty,
was accidentally shot and killed by
his brother, Herman, twelve years
old, with a shotgun which had been
loaded for a supposed marauder, who
was thought to have been poisoning
live stock.
+ + -l*+ + -++ +-1-*+ -+ +++- I-++ -1
+ WOMEN URGED TO HELP IN +
* FIGHT ON BAKERS. +
a-. +
4" Chicago, Sept. 12.-House- 4
+ wives of Chicago are urged to 4
- weigh the bread they buy and +
4+ to assist the city department +
+ of weights in watching local +
+ bakers for violations of the +
+ anti-trust laws against short +
$. weights. +
- The United States district +
+- attorney, the state's attorney +
d+ and the Chicago city council +
4. have already started Investiga- +
4' tions into the bakery situations. +
,i+ 4 4
