V
COUNTY
HPlTh HTH) IT fl TTT?
! SOUTH BUSINESS
J Auditor, Cowrty i1:14
VOL XXXIII NO 23
WAUSEON, OHIO, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
I JKJlOUilI
o
9
Gixm Attendance Specially . Large'
Displays of Horses and Cattle
Plenty of Amusements Ladies
Contest Winners Race Results'.
' Fulton County Fair for 1916 has
passed into history and fair officials
will have no reason to be ashamed of
the record made. The attendance on
the two "big" days, Thursday and
Friday is estimated at about 6000
each day and the crowds found plenty
to attract their attention and hold
' their interest. The exhibit of horses
and cattlewas especially large this
year and it is doubtless true that it
surpassed in this particular, all other
county fairs in the state. The exhibit
made by the members of the Fulton
County Holstein-Friesian Association
was tne main factor in bringing the
cattle show up to tne high standard
in numbers and quality attained at
this .year's fair; aside fiom the Hol
tein showing there was a splendid
FROM LIMA.
This office is in receipt of the An
nual Report of the City Auditor of
. i . i ( : i
the IJlty 01 Juiima, unio, iur me r iscai
Year ending December 31st, 1915.
The report is in the form of a very
finely executed 66 page pamphlet,
which combines clearly arranged sta
tistics showing the receipts and ex
penditures in every department of
the city government with illustra
tions of -the public and business build
ings and the city officials the whole
making a fine showing for and of the
City of Lima. -What interests us most j One of the greatest exhibits ever
in this very attractive piece of the displayed at a County Fair was that
Printer's Art, , is the fact that the made last week by the Fulton Coun
City Auditor of Lima who prepared ty Holstein-Friesian Association of
the dook ior puDiicauuu ib nunc uuici aooui $iuu,uiu worth ot splendid in-
than our lormer townsman air. u. u. aividuals of the
GREAT CATTLE SHOW
Great Holstein-Friesian Cattle Show
Made by Fulton County Holstein
Friesian Association at Fulton
County Fair 150 Head of Cattle
Valued at $100,000.
THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Opened Monday Morning Full Faculty of Teachers in
I - High Schools aud Grades Good First
Day's Enrollment
Rupert, who for several years was
the Wauseon Agent of the Detroit,
Toledo & Ironton Railway. Mr. Ru
pert has a large circle of friends in
Uia city who are always glad to hear
from him or see him.
The city of Lima has gained some
unpleasant advertising by reason of
the recent near riot for which some
of its people will be quite likely to sit
in "Sack cloth and Ashes" for some
time to come, but Lima itself will still
continue to grow and prosper in spite
of an . occasional fit of hysterics on
Monday of this week was one of the i are investing considerable monev in
Holstein-Friesian most important days of the year in this educational -work and certainly
breed of cattle: ! the civic life of the county. There j we have a right to expect our money's
Donlourine Stock Farm,, 10 head; may be some citizens or rather resi-i worth. ,
Grisier & Egnew, proprietors, Wau- dents of the county who are not pre- The County Normal under the super
seon, Ohio. In this herd was the cow ; pared to give their assent to this i vision of Miss Helen Brigham opened
Aaggie Cornucopia DeKol, 10 months statement, but when the fact that : Monday with an enrollment of eight
record, butter 737 lbs., milk 20.C00 when the Public Schools of the county : pupils exactly the same number as
lbs. . open, the biggest and most important ; iast vear at thH onenins? of the school:
Wauseona Stock Farm, 18 head, Burr work that the county does or can do
Bros, Wauseon, Ohio, prop. In this has begun, is given due consideration
herd was Jolie Johanna Netherland, the preponderance of evidence will be
with a one year record, butter 1058 i found to support the absolute accur
lbs., milk 27,954 lbs. : acy of this assertion. Of greater vital
there are a number of prospective
students who will bring the number
up to about 12 or 14. Miss Brigham
spent her summer vacation taking
advanced work and increasing her
Rose Slope Stock Farm. 7 head: : importance to the county, state and j efficienev at Columhia Universitv
F,haf- B Caulking, proprietor, West nation than all the roads and bridges Superintendent Altstetter had the
iMwm? oi jersies ana omer preeas. i art o . Bortion of its population J nnitv. nhin that the Countv Commissioners can i """"'""f "" vr "'5
The parade on the track was judged Theintetrritv- of its officials has cerH Reaver Vallev Stock Farm 17 bead construct, ereater than the combined ! S""?0? op Ve c?'s T
TT 1-.- O O a. I., ..4- ,. U -T -, ,-! -Tnwma ' ' ...... - -
7,l,u Ui " ",c 1,auu"H "u a""l ers and a very full first day attend
,in the county and more important , BnPB . , ' Mr Austit.ter -
i.L 1 I i 1 C !. " . . v.. v. . -.
- - . i 1 X JIG .11V,'UJ - - '
oy muuy w no were present w nave ,tainly been demonstrated by thelQ. C. Hawkins ,& Son, proprietors, product of all the factories and farms
I . I nnnaf in i.o a I ta H(rTl . . . . ' . . ' ' . .
yean
cultural, culinary, domestic, art and
merchandise displays were up to those
of former jcars and the character oi
the educational exhibits was perhaps
little better this year than in pre
vious years showing progress in this
line. There were plenty of amuse
ments on the fair grounds this year
and people wearying of viewing the
exhibits found ample diversion on the
"midway."
One of the methods adopted by the
directors this year to advertise the
fair was tho beauty and popularity
contest among the ladies of the coun
ty. There were six contestants and
the results show Miss Eva Johnson of
Chenterrteld the winner of first place
and the recipient of a fine $375.00 Ho
bait M. Cable piano, from Turnbull
Brothers of Wauseon. Miss Johnson's
vote was 46,570. Miss Bernice Ross
of Swan Creek was second with a vote
of 33,450 and received a handsome
bedroom suit from Newel & Planson
of Delta. The third prize a diamond
ring from Gehring Brothers of Delta
was won by Miss Mildred Arnold of
York who received 32,550 votes. The
titer contestants were Miss Rosa Swi
gert of Pike, 26,556 votep; Miss Flor
ence Wynn of Dover, 14,114 votes and
Miss Dorothy Putman of Fulton, 13,
62.1 votes.
To very many people the races at
PRIZE-WINNERS
Wauseon Beauty Contest Winners An
nounced at Civic Club BeBefit at The
Princess Theatre, Thursday Even
ing Audience Delighted With
' Special Numbers. .
Thursday evening at the Civic Club
Benefit Show at the Princess Theatre,
the close of the "Beauty Contest" con
ducted . by the Civic Ipmrovement
Committee of the Club during the
past Summer was signalized by the
announcement of the prize winners
in the contest and the award of the
premiums.'
The announcements and awards
were made by the committee of Judges
from the Boosters Club and they
showed that the chairman H. H, Wil
liams Jr. and his associates have done
caret ul work and made excellent de
cisions. The premiums were very ap
propriate for such a contest consisting
of bulbs and shrubs which when plant-
tho county fair are one of the chief ed by those receiving them will add
attractions and this year's program
was certainly pleasing to the race
track fans. We srive herewith the
still more to the beauty of their home
surroundings and of course to . the
beauty of the town. . The prize win-
horses who scored as winners, names , ners are as follows
of oersons making entries with ad
dresses, time and other horses run
ning in each race:
Wednesday Sept. 6th v.
2:28 Trot
1. Little Dick, Thos. Singely, Ken
dalville, Indiana.
2. Tom Axtel, J. E. Clyne, Tiffin.
3. Lucy Axtel, John Davis, Toledo.
4. May Mobel, Al Clark, Lima.
Time:--2:lT i; 2:19 3-4; 2:19.
Other horses running: . Jena v.,
Queen McKay, Mary Jane.
225 Pace
1. Dale Todd,. J. L. Spangler, Mo
rencl, Michigan. ,
2. Squaw Man, Al Clark, Lima.
' 3. Bernath, B. F. Bernath; Hicks
ville. 4. Joe Vensedor, P. W. Gray, Na
poleon. Time: 2:17; 2:16; 2:17.
Other horses running: Ellen Loveh
tart, Mollie D.
Countv Free for All Pace
1. Bessie Wilkes, Jim Harmon,
Delta
2. Gambol, Fred Fitzsimohs, Delta.
3. Col. Johnson, R. Harmon, Del
ta. 4. Pearl E.. Conrad Reichhardt,
Swanton. 4
Time: 1:10; 1:05; 1:05.
Thursday Sept. 7th
Free For All Pace
1. Hal Leaf, Geo. C. Brice, Toledo.
2. Laura Lucile, Harry Clemmens,
Ligionier, Indiana.
3. Billie Bryan, C. E. Blanchard,
Morenci, Mich.
Time: 2:10; 2:10; 2:10.
2:18 Trot 1
1. Billie Sunday, John Davis, To
ledo. 2. ' Ellen Custer, M. R. Skimerhorn,
Howe, Indiana.
3. Just Right, D. M. Reppert,
Paulding,
- reitona nera, o neau; iarK u. rsid- uma au voiu.,. ui !gins this years work with the Wau-
dle proprietor, Wauseon Ohio. ; banks and stores, is the educational ; g h u . d t ive the
Alvina Stock Farm, 10 head; C. L.iwork carried on by the public schools most vaiuable yeas PsPervice bhe has
Steward & Son proprietor, Lyons, O. ; of the county. This work has to do ye. ; experience of the pre
Tonawanda Stock Farm, 10 head; ! with the making of citizens the tram- cedin 'rs has Fmade him famiiiar
Stong & Barden, proprietors, Lyons, ing of the men and women who shall with fi ,d d Summer spent in
Ohio. determine the character of the civic . 0raH..t work at chican llni-
Clear View Farm 10 head; II. A. ! conditions- the social and moral stan- P f se73 aenthus?asm and
iTr..:ii: ia,u rw.: t aa iha nmo-r-oeo . 5 .,,. I1? increases nis entnusidsm anu
V,; l.,.. f 1 WooV, ., inHnotrir sinrl nffripnltiirn onH rivic jettlCiency in niS prOieSSlOn
WHO UCaiU lO JJUI.J T CAyUtAiky Wilt V t--C Ww. . b- -
record, butter 1002 lbs., milk 22,912
lbs. Pietertje Alwilda 3rd, one year
record, butter 835 lbs., milk 20,580 lbs.
Reed DeKol 3rd,
milks 20,815 lbs.
Everett Spring, Tedrow, Ohio, 11
head.
Royalton Stock Farm, 14 head. W.
H. Standish, proprietor, Lyons, Ohio.
Rosemont Stock Farm, 8 head; E. D.
Cases in Probate Court Marriage
Licenses Real Estate Transfers
Orders Drawn on Treasury New
Cases in Common Pleas Court.
Probate Court.
Guardianship of Fannie L. Aeschli
man, linal account filed. Hearing set
ior October 9th, 1916.
Alice Steward, executrix of the es
tate of Ivlathew Steward, deceased vs
ilomer B. Steward, et al, hearing held
at 2 o'clock p. m. Charles A. Cole
appointed guardian for the suit, for
minor defendants. Found necessary
to sell real estate, to-wit, lots in Wau
seon, and 20 acres land in Henry
bounty, Ohio, appraisers appointed.
Jistate of George R. Hoople, deceas
ed, fifth partial account filed. Hear
ing set for October 9th, 1916.
The State of Ohio vs Charles Shaf
fer, examining court held and cause
continued for further consideration.
Estate of Samuel A. Miller, deceas
ed, first partial account filed. Hear
ing set for October 9th, 1916.
Estate of Mary A. Lester, deceas
ed, distributive account filed and con
firmed. Application to invest unclaim
ed money filed and ordered to invest
in bonds or first mortgage the amount
of money uncalled for by heirs, whose
whereabouts are unknown. .
Estate of Mary Flo'gaus, deceased,
second arid Anal account filed. Hear
ing set for October 9th, 1916.
Philip J. Gehring committed to the
Toledo State Hospital.
Will or Oscar L. Wales, appnea-
laees and the rural schools generally
Dutter l w.6 los., with a very few exceptions opened
their doors to begin what we have
every reason to expect will be the
best year in the history of tHe schools
of the county. Among - the reasons
why the school year of 1916-1917
ought to be the best year thus far in
Marks & Son. proprietors, Morenci. ; the educational history of the county
Michigan. is the fact that the system of super-
m t f ,11 th i-!Scho01 was 172 many more m
5 iC: r ZCC PPect which will bring the amU
First day enrollment m the High t- f bate o win filed Hring
frml uioo . i nnfh in i vi . Tmr i i-i 1 .
ment.up to that of last year and pos
sibly exceed it.
Mr. C. M. Sims a graduate of ' the
Ohio State University is the New
High School principal. Miss Wolcott
who has been taking Summer work at
Columbia University; Miss Costello
who spent at least part of the vaca
tion in Arizona and Miss Drennan are
Risinghurst Herd, 5 head. George I intendence has become well establish- lne teacners wno are ciassea as oia
Rising, proprietor, Fayette, Ohio. In ed in the county and results in theinn ooesn i necessarily reier xo
this herd is a world's record cow! way of definite aims, uniform courses their age; to this class should also be
Crown Princess Maxie DeKol 2nd, 7! of study, better equipment,4 higher j added he name of Mr- tnelli who has
days butter 36.72 lbs., milk 599.1 lbs. 1 standards of teaching and intelligent ' entered upon a course in matrimony
30 days butter 142.38 lbs., milk 2,501 guidance of the teachers have been has al?;eady attained the degree of
lbs ! obtained Superintendent Perry and "Benedict" and what .is more to the
Grisier and Egnew instituted a f ea- his assistants have been persistent, Vomt has brought with him this year
tnre that miirht nrnve a valuable in- consistent and efficient workers and 1 a charming co-worker in the person
stitution at future fairs; this was an the results of their efforts ought tOjof Mrs SneU ad will continue to
aiir-tion sale of the rrare' hred stock be atJDarent in the increased efficiency , supervise the manual training 'work
they had on exhibition at 11 "o'clock of the schools. Again, Normal train
Friday morning. Linehan and Ryan ing for the teachers has been placed
...,. 1 .,... n .... ..- ,i aiv V. .. .1 ) Vi 5 ii Vi ii .anIll t: P IH'oru taiar tf
were sold. Such a sale gives persons the county. Many of the teachers al- this year, besides Mr. Sims the prin
who desire to improve their herds or . ready engaged in work have taken "pal are Miss Fnrman teacher ol
secure a foundation an excellent op- advantage of the Summer courses of- Latin, a graduate of Defiance Col-
of both the Wauseon and Bryan
schools.
New teachers in the High School
For recent general improvement in
home surroundings.
First, Harley S. Hill.
Second, G. C. Lyon.
Third, .Willaim Slink.
' 'For neat appearance of back yard:
First, Crawford Blair.
Second, Mrs. Ben Omlor.
, Third, Geo. McCoy. 7
For general appearance of exterior
of buildings: .' . . .,,.
, First, W. T. Campbell.
Second, H. Kennedy.
Third, M. E. Read.
Grounds and surroundings of home:
First, Mrs. E." H. Harrison
Second, W. C. Fink.
Third, Fred Wolf.
For flowers and shrubs:
. First, Frank S. Ham.
Second, John Hatt.
Third, W. A. Showalter.
For vegetable garden:
First, Chas. Humphreys. .
Second, Mrs. Bertha Carpenter.
Third, W. A. Marks.
The judges were unable, under the
class entitled' "For appearance of
street and alleys adjoining home," to
find any worthy of premiums. The
best looking alley, in town was found!
where homes adjoining were not en-,
tered in the contest.
The contest has proven a success
in every way and has added to the
beauty of the town. It -would be hard
to find anywhere in Northwestern
Ohio a town the size of Wauseon with
better kept or more attractive streets
homes and lawns than is our own home
citv. it is to be hoped that a similar
contest may be conducted next year
and the next and so on indefinitely
The ladies of the Civic Club are to be
commended for inaugerating this
movement it has awakened civic pride
and deepened interest in and affec-
, tion for home and home' surrounding.
4. Alta Mack, Fred leacnout, 10-1 Those who entered the contest and put
ledo. I forth any effort at all have benefited
Time: 2:22; 2:22 Vi; z.tff s-4; 'i.iand the town as whole has gamed in
portunity. fered by the various Normal Schools
Burr Brothers sold .four head at; and for the younger teachers or be
private sale, the primary purpose of ;ginners, the County Normal Schools
the exhibit was not to sell stock but have given opportunity for training
to let people who attend the fair know t in the art of teaching that insures a
what the Breeders of thi county have big improvement in the teaching
and are accomplishing with this f am- jforce.
ous breed of cattle. As a body politic we have been and
lege with post graduate work at O. S.
U. Miss Stafford, graduate of Heidel
berg University with post graduate
work in the Normal School at Bowl
ing Green who will teach domestic
science and . biology, and Mr. Cramer
also a graduate of Heidelberg Uni-
( Continued on page Eight)
set for September 15th, 1916, 1 o'clock
p. m.
Marriage Licenses.
Frank- G. Flogaus, 21, machinist,
Toledo, and Freda M. Stratton, 18,
Swanton, Ohio. Rev. A. Barker, of
ficiating. Joseph Jewell, 65, farmer, and Hat
tie W. Monroe, 51, both of Tedrow,
Ohio. Rev. Hoag, officiating.
Robert Fern Shafer, 25, painter and
Addie A. Carpenter, 24, Fayette, Ohio.
Rev. Wm. Clark, officiating.'
Warrants Drawn.
Florence McGowan, M. P $ 9.00
Mary Malone, same- 9.00
Elizabeth Hamlin, sold's. relf. 4.00
Myra Highshew, same 6.00
Hannah Stevens, same .... 6.00
A. Van Nortwick, same . 4.00
Eddie Oberly, ditch No. 1121. 77.00
First Nat'l. Bank, ini rd bd 12.50
B. F. Jones, Supt. Infy 71.22
W. R. Guilford, rd. repair. . . . 20.00
Rosa -Root, mothers pension 12.00
H. L. Dunbar, ditch 1107... 217.65
Slater & Noble, burial 2.00
Sarah Harmon, M. P. 9.00
H. L. Bender, ditch 1129 25.00
Guy Miller, ditch 1099 40.00
Jas. Waddell, sold. relf. 4.00
Rev. A. Barker, ser at Infy . . 12.50
Fred Vonier, ditch 1121..... 57.00
Elnora Robinson, M. P. .... 9.00
Jas. King, water rent C H. . 23.73
Geo. Porter, ditch 1103 170.60
C. P. Weber, Dist. Supt 132.50
E. F. Chase, same 75.00
Carrie Williams, M. P. 12.53
C. H. Case, inspt 46.50
A. Q. Price, bd complaints.. 25.00
G. Shaffer, same 25.00
W. W. Croninger, same ..... 25.00
H. M. Jay, dist. Supt 75.00
D. W. Leininger, ditch 1135.. 200.00
M. E. Mattern, examiner 10.00
Mariam Hay ward, M P 6.00
Lowell Keith, same 20.00
Meda Buck, same 12.40
Emu Weber, postage 70.42
Dayton File Env. Co., env. P J 20.00
Real Estate Transfers.
Lydia Clark and S. J. Clark to John
W. Becker, small parcel land, Wau
seon, $100.
James S. Brailey to Sebastian
Brindley, lot 35, H. S. Bassett's 2nd
addition, Swanton, $75.
Anna Ruihley to Barbara Herrman,
small parcel land, Beachwood addition
Wauseon, Ohio, $ 1.
Common Pleas Court.
Irving Trumbull vs Ola Trumbullj
divorce.
1-enora Egnew vs Hattie Henshaw,
forclosure of mortgage, amount claim
ed, $1590.
COMMUNITY CENTERS
Garfield's Estimate of Agricultu
Vital Relation Between Agriculture
and Rural Towns The Office
The County Agent. '
of
j Chas. Gingery, ditch 1121 .
147.75
2:25
2:14 Pace
1. Hazel Boy, Wm. Helms, Hamil
ton, Indiana.
2. Mostello, J. P. Conway, Napo
leon. 8. Andy McKenney, H. Foot, Ot
tawa.
4.
attractiveness. If "America First and
Efficient" is a good slogan, and we
think it is, then for residents of this
city, "Wauseon First and Cleanly At
tractive" is a - good worjeing motto
that followed will enable us to help
make "America. First and Efficient."
The moving picture- program Thurs-
Billie Riddle,. Thos. Singely, j day evening was a choice one and the
(Continued on pag Eight) (Continued on page 4)
USE MiiCALL'SilRESS PATTERNS
Firmly
Fixed
1
For
EHRIST!EflCE
Lecture By William W. Porter, C. S.
B. of New York at The Court House
in Wauseon September Third, 1916.
Early
Buyers
iecure The Cream of The Season
wtwuuin
HOP EARLY
THE
Lenawee
County
ADRIAN, MICHIGAN
SEPTEMBER 18th to 22d
The Fair that give the largest exhibit of Live Stock,
Poultryi Grains), Fancy Work, Grange Displays, Merchants'
Exhibits, Machinery. Etc., of any 25c Fair in Michigan.
Wednesday is Children's Day and all school children
will be admitted free. It is also the day of the great
spelling contest.
Thirty dollars in gold to be given to the best spellers.
Send for list of words, prepare and win $10 in gold and the
championship of Lenawee county. .
$3600.00 IN PRIZES FOR RACES
Will attract a large field of, horses, which will give
three days ot fine sport. The races will start at 1 o'clock
p. m., on Wednesday.
Free Attractions, Music, Fine Exhibits, Large
Midway. Plenty of Room for Autos
COME AND SEE THE FAIR OF ALL FAIRS
See Local Agents foi Special Train Service
25c
ADMISSION 25c
Ladies' New Fall Suits
While the season is young we have the SMART
EST, of TAILORED SUITS for immediate wear.
The COLORINGS, the RICHNESS of MATER
IALS marks a conspicuous characteristic of the
SEASON'S vogue.
Our MODELS reflect a QUALITY and STYLE
that is wholly reliable.
Offering these Splendid Suits
at the Most Modest Prices
$16.50 to $27.00
Our Ideal
Showing Ladies' Snappiest
Trimmed' Hats
Sizes are of such a variety that one can wear
large, small or medium and be of the mode. The
MILITARY shapes hold strong influence while the
VELVET TRIMS DOMINATE.
In General Our Millinery
Is Very Striking
Select your HATS EARLY and insure yourself
for the FULL SEASON.
MISS SALLIE GRUBB
Milliner in Charge
"At the head of all the sciences and
arts, at the head of civilization and
progress, stands not militarism, the
science that kills, nor commerce, the
science that accumulates wealth but
agriculture, the mother of all industry
and the maintainer of human life."
That agriculture will developed
throughout the United States just as
community centers are developed and
that when the two are separated the
fabric of rural life will be torn down,
is the belief of Prof. G. L. Christie,
superintendent agricultural extension
work, Purdue University, who, in
talking before the convention of the
National Fertilizer Association recent
ly, used the above statement regard
ing agriculture by President Garfield
as the text. -
"Do you think that we can develon
the country districts of Indiana, or
any other state, if we destroy the
rural towns? The rural towns grew
up because the farmers wanted and
needed stores, where they could trade.
where they could market their produce
and buy supplies. The country store-
Keeper is there because they wanted
him. Then they found thev needed
blacksmith shops, men to handle ma
chinery a center where . they could
get work done. It was the farmer
who wanted the local center and he is
the man that brought it there.
"We are convinced that there is
enough information in our;depart
ments of agriculture and experiment"
stations if taken out and applied on
the farms to double the production of
this country, to make the land bloom
Mke a rose, to give us the foodstuffs
that will feed our increased millions
of people in and adequate way. The
county agent offers a medium through
which this work can be accomplished,"
added Professor Christie. "It is read
ily seen that the educational field is
large and there is plenty for the coun
ty agents to do. Again, this work is
directly helpful and profitable to all
classes, bince county agents in most
cases are supported, in part at least,
by public taxation, fhey should exer
cise every care in the lines of work
chosen, not to assist one class at the
expense of another, providing they
are engaged in legitimate business.
In many counties there are people
who would organize and 'use county
agricultural advisors as financial
agents for co-operation buying and
selling. This is a questionable line
for county agents to take up. Some of
these people believe that the county
agent isfor the farmeralone. They for
get that in most cases the county
agent is financed by public taxation.
It was the hope of the leaders of this
movement that the county agent
should work in communities with the
farmers so that they may grow more
corn, more wheat and more meat in
order that the people in the cities shall
(Continued on page Eight)
For Fall Time Beautiful Silk Taffetas
With the coming in of FALL makes prominent
the display of
Silk Taffetas in Fancy Stripes
and Plaids
for the present this fabric is the most popular, they
make the most attractive dress.
We will be pleased to show you our handsome
line of these fabrics.
$1.25 and $1.50 the yard
Big Collection Ladies' Fall Skirts
We have a very effective display of the newest
TAILORED LADIES SKIRTS in a full range of
regular and extra sizes.
Corsets Corsets Corsets
Chamberlain's Colic, Cholera and Di
arrhoea Remedy.
This is a medicine that every fami
ly should be provided with. Colic and
diarrhoea often come on suddenly and
it is of the greatest importance that
they be treated promptly. Consider
the suffering that must be endured
until a physician arrives or medicine
can be obtained. Chamberlain's Colic
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy has a
reputation second to none for theC
quick relief which it affords. Obtain
able everywhere.
Continued from, last week
And right here is encountered a
fact the significance of which may '
never be forgotten or lost sight of,
namely: That with this true idea of
dod which Jesus Christ inculcated
came His many mighty works of heal
ing and regeneration, as well as those
of His students and followers which
continued upwards of three centuries
thereafter. In fact it was concern
ing these very works of healing and
regeneration that Christ Jesus sent
word to John the Baptist, that they
were the evidence of witness of the
Messianic or Christ way.
And today, this true idea of God
which is declaring the Science of
Christianity has reappeared in Chris
tian Science, bringing the same heal
ing and regenerative message which
characterized its advent 2000 years
ago. .
Misconceptions Concerning God
It must be apparent to an unpre-
judiced consideration that there has
been some misc6nception or,, at least,
inadequate understanding- concerning
trod, and one such popular misconcep-
tion has been that which assumes and
depicts God as being more or less
humanly personal,, of mangified pro
portions, patriarchal and kindly in
aspect. This seems to be a concept
which has found favor among artists
quite-generally, and may well be said
to represent a concept towards which
tHe. human mind quite naturally turns.
A short time ago there was exhibit
ed in an eastern city a collection of
paintings of the Cubist school, among
which was one that attracted a great
deal of attention and comment: Upon
a blue back "ground were depicted a
group of spheres of globes, from
which, extending downard were num
erous crystals or rays in bright red
and gold colors.
Nothing more! To this painting the
artist had appended the title or name
Trod! - - j.
km. xne two concepts nere reierrea
to it is possible that the latter might
be productive of the greater good;
for while the former concept of God .
might leave one with a very comfort
able sense of a kindly disposed per
sonage and impel the observer to in
quire WHAT IS GOD? And if , he is
sincere in his inquiry he will find an
answer commensurate with such in
quiry. "Ask and ye shall receive.')
Fundamental Statements
- There are certain primitive, or fun
damental statements in this connec
tion, which are'so innate' and obvious,
as to require no argument to establish
their acceptance they are self-evident,
namely:
That existence involves or implies
mind. '- "
. That without mind there can bd no
existence. r" '
That mind, therefore, is the neces
sary precedent, cause ox -creator of
existence.
Otherwise stated, existence, or that
which exists, is the necessary subse
quent, effect, result or creation of
mind. . . '
This mind, then, infinite in its per
fection, immeasurable and inexhausti
ble in its capacity, continuity and re-
source, must be the Divine Principle
of MAN and the UNIVERSE-nust
be, that which we mean or should
mean when we think or say, God!
Mind-Omnipresent-IncorporeaL
Indeed it would be impossible to
conceive of God except as All-Wise
or Infinite Mind; and as there-is no
place where Mind is not, God who is
All-Wise, Infinite Mind, is omnipres
ent, hence incorporeal.
And being incorporeal, it would be
just as obviously erroneous to -think
or speak-of Hod as humanly personal
or corporeal as . it would be to think
or speak f two times two making
seven. One might mistakenly be
lieve that two times two make seven
just as one might mistakenly believe
that God, who is Infinite Mind or Di
vine Love, is humanly personal or
corporeal; but just so surely as one
would run into countless difficulties
through the . mistaken belief that two
times two make seven, just so surely
would he run into countless difficul
ties, sin, sickness, death and disaster,
through the mistaken belief- that God,
who is Infinite Mind, or Divine Love,
is or can be corporeal, humanly per
sonal, or physically outlined in any
manner whatsoever. The Scripture de
clares: "I am the Lord; that is my
name; and my glory will I not give to
another, neither my praise to graven
images." Is. XLII 8)
God is Love .
lit- language inspired and inspiring
John, who fulfilled so wonderfully
the great trust reposed in him by
the Master this beloved disciple de
clares that God is Love! Love that is
without beginning and without ending,
American Lady Nemo
$1.00 to $3.00 $3.50
Warners
$1.00 to $2.50
With this congregation of CORSET ART you
are sure of selecting something desirable and suitable.
Wauseon's Exclusive Dry Goods Store
The Spencer EdgarVollmer Co
Where Popular Prices Prevail
(.Continued on Inge Eiffht)
THE FARM CREDIT BILL
Congress has passed it and the President has signed
it. So far so good. But the underlying principle of
getting a loan under the regulations of this new bill, is
after all, a good reputation, ability and resources upon
which to obtain the loan
The same old rule; the rule that ' has determined the
making of any loan from time immemorial.
' Any farmer, any man, can build up for himself a
.credit standing that will entitle hinrto the confidence
and the financial assistance of his fellow men.
As the bank is one of the principal institutions
through which men build up their credit rating we invite
you to become a regular customer of the
FIRST NATIONAL
WAUSEON, OHIO
41 tm
