The Caldwell Watchman
)OL . L RoA.,
MORESTATETROOPS
RETURN FRLM TEXA
ALEXANDFRIA COMPANY ESPI
CiALLYv PLEASED TO GET BACK
TO CAIlV1P STAFFORD.
BOYS GREETED BY FRiEIDS
Train Which Brought Them to Alex
andria Consisted of Fourteen Tour
ist Cars, Five Freight Cars and
Two Baggage Cars.
.l*\a udria.
'1'T rcTnalndir of the Fir>¶ Louis
iana infantry regimerni, with a (iuota
of six hundred and tift Y. iiien, corn
prisini ('ompanies A, of f lomer, in
command of Captain (Ford; I of ('row
ley, in cow wand of Lieuit'nant l'alrn
er; E1 of Iheltidder, Captain (G . (. Col
ier: ) of (' Monroe, ('aptain It. A.
Young, Jr., I of Amite, ('aptain 8. !
l)avis; K of Lake Charles. Captain W.
W. 'oekrell; L of Shreveport, ('apt atii
WValter lRandall; M of Alexandria, ('Cap
tain I:. 1). Vance. First Lieutenaimnt O.
(C ('lark and Second ib-ut nant A. V.
Hundle,. arrived at Alexandria from
San Ienito. A -short stop was Wait'
at the Alexandria station, where the
local boys were greeted by relatives
and friends after which the train was b
transferred to Camp Stafford, whore u
there is now a total of 1170 men. The
troops came over the Gulf Coast Lines
to Kinder and thence to this city over
the Iron Mountain railroad. The train
which brought them here consisted of ti
fourteen tourist cars, five freight cars N
and two baggage cars. The men all1
look to be in good health and splendid tl
physical condition and announce that
they are glad to get back to Camp
Stafford. The members of the Alex
andria company are especially pleas
ed to get home.
y1
BRIEFLY RELATED. ie
Captain L. A. Toombs, storage clerk ,
and former deputy port commissioner hi
at New Orleans, in a letter to the doel: I
board. charges that the civil service p
examination under the last Loeb st
board was a "farce and travesty on lc
justice." lie charges that ten days sl
after he had taken the examination,
because he refused to allow the state's
motor truck to carry a load of tar- d
paulin to the home of Earnest M.
n
Loeb, president of the board, on the
morning following the September hur- c
ricane, for the purpose of covering hts
private property that he (Toombs) ft
was demoted from. deputy commis
sioner to storage clerk. b
The Tangipahoa Parish Fair Asso- f
ciation will throw open its gates init
October for the third annual fair,
which will be in operation four days.
Interesting programs of a varied na
ture have been prepared for each day.
In addition to baseball and horse rac
ing, there will be numerous side shows '
and amusements, a contract having
been signed with a carnival company
for their diversified equipment.
One of the record returns from a
rice crop is that obtained this season
by Joseph M. Nunez, a farmer resid- ,
ing near Erath. From twelve and one
half acres of land he threshed 185
bags of choice Honduras rice, whizn
be sold at $4 a bag, a total of $740,
or at the rate of over $60 an acre. r
This rice was grown on prairie land ,
and irrigated from Mayou Tigre. 0
C. C. Cooper, a private In the Unit- '
ed States army, connected with the Ir
army recruiting station at Monroe,
has been arrested on a warrant from
Omaha, Neb., charging him with em
bezzlement. Instructions to the sheriff t
contain no particulars.
A plea to be adjudged bankrupt was 1
filed by the Algiers Distilling Com
pany In the United States District i
court at New Orleans with A. R. S.in
chez, secretary-treasurer of the com- 1
pany, signing the petition
The first cotton of the season, about 1
twe've bales, was ginned at Collins
ton and.sold for right around 15 cents. I
The cotton crop has deteriorated I
about one-third from boll weevil at
tacks. 1
Ten thousand sacks of rice were i
drought to Ereax Bridge and placed I
in bcal warehouses to be held until
the m arket 5trengthens materially.
The corporation of Iota is to have
a telephone e~change and the farmcrs I
along the rural route are being s&i I
licited.
The crops near Columbia are the I
best farors ae had in eight or ten
best farmers alve
gears.
' irk radh anaton work. The' ama~i
airist (h,' (.W t'ic 1:c \\ ill cow n.,, ne**,
inl rartlert in ills spring. :Ind by fait
it is expected that tilt grat;ter part " f
('ara~siell can be taken front the0 ,puar
antint' art'a. tint' 10 the xt"Xtnsive dit
ping stork already dono. O)f tho 50,000~n
I.
atait t till c\l c atr I~t tickit· ~r·II~ (')t~ir ill'
or gut'' hleald of cattle in ('alca-.ieti
part-ii about ,t) per c('nt have h, n
dipped this year.
Th'le fourth anntal mne'e nt oft
ltalian-Amieilan Pit l'tgrt>sst\ a1rd l'ro
lective League was held. and the fol
oxing oflie rs elected: Tone Dil
Carlo, rpresident : T'r'als lthanati. 'it'u
president Satutuel Scalisi, (-orrE- pottd
ing s("cretar'y; Vinen-1 t .this'', titlt'
cial secretary; Mitchel :Monralhian 1,
rpre(e(ntativet: John Lo l so.at Josip
Lofaso and J. A. Lavoi, trtsteo.-s
The fHank of Baton lbttte not il
the parish school hoard that it tcanno
accept the $1_'5,01)0 bond issue of
school district No. 9, which cornprist
bonds at competit ivee bhidding recently
upon condition ithat the' issue be up
proved by bond exports. Dillon.
Thomipson and ('lay, bond attorneys
of New York to whom the bonds were
referred for an opinion, pronounced
them illegal because school ditrictl
No. 9 overlaps with school district No.
1. which existed before the bonds of i
the former district were issued.
Accidentally discharging a shotgun
with which he was playing, Leo St.
Roumaine, of Erwinville, aged 7 0
years, shot adnand instantly killed his
10-year-old sister, who was standing a' a
few feet away. 'the two children h
were playing in a back room of their tl
home near their mother. While Mrs.
St. Roumaine's back was turned La ,
picked up the shotgun, which was
standing in a corner. The gun was
loaded with buckshot and the chargoe
struck his sister full in the face.
F. N. Florscheim and J. U. Trous
dale, trustees for Hunter and McCor
mick, of Shreveport, filed certiti'ol
checks for $10,00o, in place of a bond,
with the city council as a guarantee
to meet the requirements of a gas
franchise recently granted. The fran
chise provides that four wells are tn
be drilled within forty miles of Mon
roe, and that in event of failure t'
find gas, it will be piped here from
the Caddo or Bossier fields.
The $500,000 road bond issue of
Jefferson Davis with the proceods of
which the parish will constrtmct ap
proximately 100 miles of gravel roatIs
was registered In the office of secre- a
tary of state at Baton Rouge. J. S.
Treme, president of the Jefferson Da
vis police jury, and Major S. A.
Knapp, vice president of the ('alca
sien National Bank of Lake ('barb'1,
were in Baton Rouge in conneetio
with the registry of the bonds.
The directors of the National Fart
and Live Stock Show, which is to on I
held under the auspices of the lBusi
ness Men's RacIng Association, No
vember 11 to 19, inclusive, have sent
out an appeal to the merchants, manu
facturers and other interests of New
Orleans, asking that every person con
nected with their business attend Uth
show on the opening day.
Salvation has been sought by more
than 600 negroes at the outdoor re
vival meeting now being held at the
National Baseball park at New Or
Icans under the direction of Rev. W
Scott C(inn. Prayers have been said
for many persoas who have not a.
tended the meeting, but whose tarne
have been offered ov friends.
The reorganized Fifth hdstric't and
Tensas Basin Lovee torard 3 w' at
notnced by Governor Pleasant. iTh-e
Fifth lDisrict Board follows,: .1. 1.
Lambden, Vidalia: V. C. Rhodes, (Thr.
suelo; G. (2. Goldman, Goldman's: :
F. Yourng, St. .toseph: 'lhnntas P.
Kell, King's; R. K. Honey. l)uckport;
E. J. Hamley. Lake Providence, ana
F. H. Schneider, Lake Providence,
New rice Is beginning to arrive in
large lots and a thousand bags of No.
i Honduras was sold for $3.36 at
liayne. This price is considered quite
low.
The governor appointed Max Sin
gar, member ofl the board of aldermen
or the village of Iota, vice George fl,
Wrlabt~ dpA3.gMed
,1 M
~ LL
*Y S. t JOR: TY -L..7
CLOJSE RACE IN $EECON~
Progressivcs, Who Two Yecs Ago
Cast 18.226 Votes, Returned Lcarge
ly ;o Republican Party, in the
Opinion of Repu' !lcan Leaders.
Pu.rriatd,.ll. A . Mlaine Reptlublica s, '
reinforeeid t returning Prllgre.: ilVe,
won ai s1hn111tIt'elln t victory at ,he " Olec
tion1. It y electt'd a go ternoir, atti!
tor, two sited States s"1,ato1s Mid
four representatites in ('.1lgr, . and
wret led control of tIlls state I : I l f
Representatives f'rotn tIl 1)e!llne;t'r
'I'ls Republic~ans tý 111 ha able oil a
;singt vain of till loegis latufre to ( ('r 0
the other state officers. ('ai l. Milli
'M ll-'n1 It'd his ticket. def,'atini_ (;ovel".1
Oakley C. ('urtis by a purality of Up
proxinmately I-I,000.
tnitid States StInator ('llaries F.
.Jolits. oi, lhose icle perso" na1 t 'l d
larity had g;in lhe Dlttomra:s great
hope of his return, was deflated '1, iI
]'rlerick hale, son of the ex-senat . a
by a plurali y of 9,.(0 votes. For ''
short term seat in the Senate. forlnm
Gov(,rnor Bert M. Fernald defrgae1 6
Kenneth C. 1M. Sills, dean of 1o01 1W t,
t'oline~ by 12?.000 votes. L. 13. Good.dH i
won from 1'. A. Ste',ens in the Fir-; a
congressional district by 3,000.
('ongressinan .1. A. Peters re-air:-:
his seat. defeating John E. Hunker :
the Third district by 4.000. :ra ().
Iiersey defeated Leonard A. Pierce in t
the Fourth district by 5.000. ,
The Republican viclory extended to
county officers. The greater number
of counties elected Republican a
attorneys and sheriffs. These otflcer
are important locally because the a
holders are charged with enforcing
the pro libition law. s
The vote was heavy, as was expect
ed, for the campaign has been waged
wish a determination not seen in re
cent years. The country was search
Ia
ed for speakers of national promi- a
nonce, and the greater number of T
these spoke on national issues.
Republicans Get Moose Votes. r
The Progressives who, two years
ago. cast 1S,22t3 vot s, returned large- it
ly to the Republican party, in Inc s
,pinion of Republican leaders. Tae
clisest fight was for Congress frotn
ti Second district, where Represen- g
tativr Daniel J. McGillicuddy was Ge- e
feated by lhallace H. White Jr. by o
d.'tt puirality. w
RItports from i'-0 of the 635 precincts 11
in the state reported, returns for grn
cirnor give Millik;n, Republican, 71,
l1: Curtis, Democrat, 61,003.
Tihe same precinicts in 1914 gave s
H-ayines, Republican, 51,347; Curtis, c
Democrat, 635 adePors
sivt, 16.282. GadePorit
For United States serator these
precincts gave Fernaldi, Republican,
70,793; 1lhale, Republican, 19,7S0; John- o
son, Democrat, 62,402; Sills, Demo
crat, 61,302.
Returns from 82 of the 147 precincts b
in the Second Congressional district
give White, Republican, 8,390 votos. h
and MeGillicuddy, flumocrat, 7,961, a t
lead of 429 vftes for the Republiaan
canididlate for Congress.
Other congressional returns are: t
First district: 46 precincts out of
89 give IL. 13. Goodall, Republican, 7,
463: L. A. Stevens, Democrat, 5,710.
IThird district: x1 precincts out of
'-4 give John A. Peters, Republican,
8,038; John E. lAnker, Democrat, 6,
Fourth district: 63 precincts out ot
I T? RvefraG.Hersey, Republican, '
64O57; L. A. Pierce, Democrat, 4,837.
REPUBLICANS ARE ELATED.
New York.--Leaders at Republican
2at innal headquarter8 were elated .t
'ver the result of the election in t
I"ne while those at D~emocratic
ii 'uu rters declitnt-u ?o admit I 11t
:it 1t'ptbiiians. hail scored a victory
In Illrring I h stile. SecretaIry Reyt
ii'd III titi ilerubi (Il Nat iotal Coni
ThIt ri ttlr shoxi an absolutely re
':ni1(1 party.'
ilairmian Mlc('ormickc of the Demo
.1 n ( Committee said:
D c:ncrtltic vtictoryina Novembr
Pave never predicteil that we would
am' i Maine, because Irealized thatk
:; carry such a rockribbed Republi
caa strongh~old in a presidential year
would be practically impossible.
t h at ns u re s t e e l e t io of e s d n
EAST INDIAN MACHINE GUN CREW
,S .,r.- , A". 'ý ý vain ppý}ý'~ ·j;
1 ·7~c. ~ ·u 1 711
4~ +* ·'
x··:4, , ' .1 ~
,.4,
'Indians.
64Th SESSION Of S
CONGRESS ENDS
DURING SESSION 17.800 BILLS AND G
642 RESOLUTIONS WERE IN
TROD'UCED IN THE HOUSE.
Washington.-('ongres. adjourned
sine die, concluding the Sixty-fourtI ti
session and a record-breaking one in it
many respects, with appropriationls l
and authorizations for the future, run- 0o
ning well toward two billion dollars. s
During the session 17,800 bills and 1
642 rebolutions were introduced in b
the House. Of these 52 bills became n
laws and 33 public resolutions were s
adopted, in addition to 150 private
bills and resolutions. 1
tongress appropriated exactly $1,- i.
626,439,210 which, waith obligations and a
authorizations for the future, makes I
the, tdtal $1,856,384,485. These figures,
ann ced In speeches by Representa
ti' p ,'zgerald, New York (Demo
alatac, husetts (Re "
were defended by the for.
m nnd attacked by the latter as half 1
a billion dollars greater than any sesa- I
sion of a Republican Congress.
In a statement issued following the
adjournment of Congress, President
Wilson called attention to the "help- t
ful and humane legislation" passed1
1and declared that while hlie regretted
additional legislation dealing with the
recent dispute between the railroads
and their employes had not been com
pleted, he had every reason to believe
ti.e question would be taken up im-I
mediately after Congress reas
sembled.
The president's statement follows:
"A very remarkable session of Con-r
Sgress has just closed, full, as all r'e
cent sessions of Congress have been,on
- of holpful and humane legislation
which constitutes contributions of cap- 1
ital importance to the defense, the eco- I
- nomic progress and the wholesome
- life of the country.
"It is to ne regretted that the ses
sion could not have continued long
enough to complete the program re
cently projected with regard to the
accommodation of labor disputes Do
'tween the railroads and the employes,
but it was not feasible and therefore t
- only tile most impressing parts of the 1]
program could be completed.
"Tme riest, it Is agreed, has merely t
been postponed until it can be morem i
maturely deliberated and perfected. I
"have every reason to believe that it is
the purpose of the leaders of the two
houses immediately upon the reas
semblirrg of Congress to undertake t
this aiditional legislation."
[I I
May Join Against Villa.
San Antonio, Tex.-If Francisco Vil- I
Ia gets witihin striking distance of
the American. expeditiontary force,
Gen. Pershin:'s soldiers may join
troops of the Carranza government 11
a campaign to exterminate the bandit t
Sand his followers, according to oen- 1
i eral Ftnston. 1
Washington. - President Wilson
signet the shipping bill. It auttloriz5s
the government organization of a cor
poration or corporations with capital
ization of not more than $50,OO').000';
to buy or lease ships and put 1 in 00 lt
trade, if they cannot be leased for 1
operafons to private capital.
-I t
Will Speak in Oklahoma.
Clhicago.-Raymnond Robins, wo
was chairman of the Progressive na
tional convention in Chicago last June r
and who now is supporting ('harlks I.
Hughes, will deliver an address Sep- 1
tember 16 at Perry, Okla., at tte an- c
niversary of the opening of the Chero
kee strip.
Encampment at Boston.
Kansas City, Mo.-The annual en
campment of the Grand Army of the t
Republic in 1917 will be held at -os -
ton it was decided at a business meet, 1
ing of the reunion. e
fe:
STUBBORN FIGilING A
RAGING IN GALICIA Q
It
GERMANS AND TURKS ENGAGE
RUSSIANS NEAR HALICZ-RUSS ra
WINS IN CARPATHIANS. i
$1
Petro erad. - German and Turkish 4i
troop; ar4 -ngaged in stubborn light- t,
ing niiNh Russian forces in Galicia on to
th t Itiver Naratuvka, in the direction
of Iialicz, according to the otlicial g
statement issued by tale Russian War ht
Departiment. A counter attack made b,
by the 'T'urks and Teutons, he state- p
meat adds, was repulsed by the Ritus
sians. SI
In the ('arpathians, south of Htara- e
nof'f, the Russians stormned a series of p
- heights. They took 500 prisoners, the hi
I announcement says, and captured a s
Smountain battery of several cannon p
,which had been thrown into the rs- e
vines. o
SRussian torpedo boats, it is declar- t
ied, bombarded the Roumanlan port of i
SBaltjik, on the Black Sea, and sank 21
f barges in which the Bulgarians, whr is
i" had occupied the seaport, were ship >
ping bread. E
SThe official statement follows: v
t "German-Turkish counter attacks on o
the River Narauivka, in the direction
Sof Halicz, were repelled by our fire. ii
SIn this area stubborn fighting con- e
t tinues. fl
S"In the wooded ('arpathians, south b
- of Baranoff, our troops carried a se
'ries of heights, taking more than 500 p
- prisoners and capturing five machine b
guns and a mountain battery of sev- ti
eral cannon, which had been thrown tl
into the ravines.
"C('aurasian front: In the region of el
the village of Ognott stubborn fighting al
continues. d
; "Black Sea: Our torpedo boats Ii
Sbombarded the port of Baltjik on the
Roumanian coast and sank 21 barges, u
in which the Bulgarians were shipping tl
bread front this port. Enemy sea- Ist
planes attacked our torpedo boats rr
without result." p
b;
Red Cross Duties Broad.
Washington.-That Red Cross acti
vities among soldiers are not confined 01
to binding wounds and nursing conva- Ci
lescents. Is shown in an order just 01
issued to local units. It is requested ti
rthat parties meet troop trains return- b'
ing from the Mexican border and pro- I
Ivide refreshment and entertainment. al
SSuffragist For Wilson.
Wash.ngton.-Mrs. Frances C. Ax
tell, president of the -Washington gi
State Congressional Union, opposing pi
President Wilson, has resigned and pt
will stump the state for the president.
- Mrs. Axtell is the Progressive party's P
f candidate for Congress. E
I vi
1 T. R. Will Make Tour. ei
1 ('hicago.-Colonel Theodore Roose- dt
Svelt will make a speakinge tour of II. 0(
- linois, Indiana and other central and
Western states in behalf of the Re
publican national ticket. A schedule
will he arranged withtn a few weeks. T
1 The trip will start late in September. gi
- Guards Vote On Border. ni
S1t l'aso, Tex.--Memnbers of the ti
I Iou t (':irolina National Guard cort
i tingent on station e-cre east ballots in
r their siate andl count y primnari untider
a ruling from tite alt truiy general zf r<
Reduce Size of Loaves. nm
San Francisco.--Tw( and a half
ounces wert lopped from each loaf of
bread baked by t lie San Franclsco,
h l)al\Qs., to he sold for c#nts, and o
- dougthnluts were mis:'d from 12 to 15 y
- cents a dozE-n, as also were rolls anfl
buns. m
Villa Bandits Executed.
- Chihuahua City, Mex.-Two Villa
3 bandits-Julio Valle and J. Prieto- p
- have been captured near Santa Ysa- P
- bel, Chihuahua, and executed by gov- D
ernment troops.
WRLD 'S GRATl ESI
.u E nC LLAPSES
ib rNG )Elis CAREl 1 WOr -
MEN INTO ST. LAWRENE -
MIAN' CRAFTS TO RESCUE.
SECOND ACCIDENT OF KIND
Seventy Lives Lost N ne Years Ago
When Structure on Same Site Co(
lapsed-Contradictory Stories
Regarding the Collapse.
Qin e Ti- be c-tilt ral spat of tihe
worlds gr'-at est bridge ci illapsed and
fell into the St. Law rentic ltivtr with
a loss of lift \ariouslV estinuat let frIom
tIhreo to 25. 8*-v " ral hiurs at! r the
accidtenit happetnl.d a Sjit- ial train intot
Quebec bong ht ."iI injured ruin.
Nine years ago a similar accil-nt at.
Ihe samte spot took a 1oll of 71 liles.
Niniet tV mnt Wilrt carriedi intI the
river alMen tihe t,o000-too span livtIlg
aised fromt pontollnls tin an tgionet-t
fag feat dti-signedtol li otiplt-)t- th
$17 ,0)0l,)lllh l -antlivver s tlt-pt ttlti for
itranscoutit lntit al :ail « ay traith ploutg
ed a distance of 1I feet into the i(W -
ter and sank 2'111 fret, perhap- lItv r
to be recoveried.
(Contradtictory storites wert- told re
garding thie colllapse. The pontoons
had been relmoved and the span was
being lifted by massive hydraulic
packs when, according to some of the
spectators, the northern end of thlie
span fell with the breaking of gird
ers. Frantic efforts were made to
, place a chain rope around the totter
ing structure, but with reports like
shells exploding the remaining stap
ports snapped and the span disappear
ed with a tremendous splash. Some
of the observers said that the struc
ture also buckled at the center as it
Sfill. I
L Groups of men at work slipped off
Sinto the waters and others were
knocked into space by flying debris.
Scores of craft containing spectators
went to the rescue and their endeav
I ors prevented a larger loss of life.
Observers said that the span broke
in two places-first, one of the corn
ers appeared to give way, this being
followed almost immediately by a
break in the center.
SThe span had been constructed on
) pontoons a few miles east of the
bridge site and was towed into posi
Stion immediately under the gap left in
the anchor arms of the structure.
Chains with links 30 inches in dinanm
eter, together with girders, were then
attached to the span and 8,000-ton by
I draulic jacks commenced the task of
lifting the span 151) feet into place.
The juggling of 5,000 tons of steel
under unprecedented circumstances in
the dominion attracted to the scene
Sseveral thousand spectators, including
members of Parliament and newspa
per men gathered on vessels furnished
by the Canadian government.
Members of the dominion cabinet
witnessed the collapse from the deck
of a government vessel while Ameri
can tourists crowded hundreds of
other boats. Eminent American au
thorities on bridge building and mem
bers of the Australian Parliament re
turning home after visiting in Europe
also were at the scene.
Parker Will Make Tour.
New Orleans.-John M. IParker, Pro
gressive nominee for vice president,
probably will make a speaking tour,
principally of the Eastern states.
"The speeches I shall make," said Mr.
Parker, "will be entirely in the inter
ests of the Progressive party, with the
view to keeping it actively in exist
ence. I will not advocate the candi
dacy of either the itepublican or Dem
ocratic nominee for the presidency."
Lightning Kills Guard.
Nevada, Mo.---Sergeant Edward P.
Thontas of St. Louis of the machine
gun company of the First Missouri In
fantry Riegitiment, was killed by light
ning in his tent on the state res-rva
tion here.
Employes Get Incre'se.
Montreal.- The (;tandl Trutnk liall
road ('otmpanv 111as granted an in
*crease in wtigts from i. to 8 p-r cent
to ta.l0 ottnploycs. all except the flre
lnitt and enginet-rs.
New Commander Named.
Top-ka, Kan.--Major ('lad liamil
ton of Topeka has been L.signl'd to
the command of the Fifteenth I)ivi
sion lUnited States National Guards
men at Laredo. Tex.
New Solicitor is Named.
Waslhington.-Charles D. Mahaffle of
Portland, Ore., was nominated by
President Wilson as solicitor of the
Department of the Interior.
