THE BARKE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 155.
RAHKE, VKHMOXT. Fill DAY. SKPTEMHEK 13, 11)10.
ritlCE. OXE CENT.
i. .
BRITISH TOOK
BIG SLICE OF
TERRITORY
The Infantry Charged This
Morning over a Front Six
Miles Long and Penetrat
ed at Some Points as Far
as 3,000 Yards Fighting
Is Continuing
ALSO MADE ADVANCE
SOUTH OF THIEPVAL
TRAINS PELTED
WITH MISSILES
One Shot Fired and Bullet
Just Grazed a Passen
ger's Shoulder
WINDOWS BROKEN
IN NIGHT ATTACK
Sympathetic Strike in New
York May Be Averted
French Made Attack North
of the Somme and Cap
tured Series of Trenches,
Going as Far as the Vil
lage of Kancourt Ger
man Attacks at Verdun
Lose
London, Sept. 15. The British re
turned to the attack on the Somme front
last night, charging over a sector six
miles long. The war office announced to
day that they had advanced from a,ooo
to 3,000 yards and were continuing to
progress.
The attack was made along the whole
British front, over which the heaviest of
the fighting has been in progress recently.
The British advanced in a line from
Bouleaux wood, between Combles and
Ginchy, to a point north of the Bapaume
highway.
Preceding this morning's extensive of
fensive, the British last night drove for
ward southeast of Thiepval and captured
about 1,000 yards of German trenches,
including a strong fortified position.
Paris, Sept. 15. North of the Somme
the French last night captured a series
of German trenches and advanced as far
as the village of Rancourt, the war of
fice announced to-day.
On the Verdun front two German at
tacks were repulsed.
Somme region of France, apparently is
on the verge of capture by the entente
force.
With the British firmly established in
the 4iuo wood, le than a mile from
the western outskirt of the village, the
French a mile to the et of it have drlv
en their weds in farther and ruptured
I.e Prica farm, through which runs the
road to Kuncourl. 1 tie larm, wmcn nan , ml .
been held by the German a a point of 1 neTC IS OOlTie XlOpe 1 flat U
support against rrencli encroaciimctit
upon Comble. was taken by asault.
Along the Teronne Bethune road to the
north and 1uth of Douchavesne the
German, according to Paris, ha vainly
attacked the newly won French position
in th Hrttt stf retmininfr il.eir traimnort
i - - p. - e 11 . . ... . - ... ,
line to the north, but all their efforts rk, Sept. U. Althougn union
have been without succe and the I leaders virtunlly abandoned hope that
French have maintained all their gin. Mayor- Mitchel and the public service
commission may bring about an amicable
adjustment of difference between the
Directum I Covered Distance In 55 Sec- striking street railway men and their
ondi at Syracuse. employers, Mief wa strong in official
Syracuse. X. V., Sent. 15. Directum I, circles to day that some action would tie
world's champion pacing stallion, added taken within 24 hours to avert a threat
. . 1
an Important chapter to harness liorse ,.nd sympathetic strike of 70,000 trad."
niicrv x. uie .rw iuik inn i nnmnit
crand iwuit wwtinff yteruy aiw htrinv u-f :!. vin1rnr broke out
noon when h broke an records for ft anfW. From midnWht until earlv to-dav
t A ' A AL-J-A - I .
nair miie ny negotiating iw umntmr tie Kjxtn , xinth avenue elevat.nl
SS4 second. I he former reeor.1 was t,ains W(.r(. anK.t continuously bom
held by lan 1'atcn. who airtet ry a winn- i..r,i.,i ifh hrieV. fnnn and other
shield made the mark in Stt seconus at , : .1 Mnv uinriowa were broken rennrted one true hill uml one nut. found.
Memphis, Tenn., in 1P03. and one ruard was injured. The police, The iiidictmetit returned is against
FASTEST HALF EVER PACED.
PROMINENT VERMONT" DEMOCRAT.
James E. Burke of Wetl Rutland Died
After Long Illness.
Rutland, Sept, lj ,ljnir K. l,iike of
West Rutland, a prominent marble man
insurance agent and lieuiorrat, died at
his home yeterdiy afternoon at 4:-U
o'clock following a long illnc-. with
sugar diabetes. Mr. Burke was a mem
ber of tin) lieiii'H.ratic itiit-coiiiiiuttee ur
several years and hud len ent as del
gate to several national convention of
the pnrtv. He had alm held town of-
tires, including IIiokh of schou) director
select man and town representative.
Mr. Burke wan I am it Vet liutlund
May JO, IHtlrt. For JO year he hnd been
general agent for the New York I. lie
Insurance company and ha Ix-en one of
the most successful representatives of
the concern in New hiigland.
He had always been inlensted in mar'
ble development, having founded the Or
vello Marble company. He wa intru-
mental also in the formation and growth
of the (la rendu Marble company, of
which ha wa secretary at the tune of
his death.
He was at the head of the so-called
Hurke" faction which was in opposition
to the "Brown"' division of the Demo
cratic party several years ago, the war
ring faction dividing the party in er
mont for a number of year. .Mr. Burke
was a prominent member of the A. O.
H., having served as president, of the
state organisation and the West Rut
land division. He leave a wile and live
children.
INDICTED FOR MURDER.
George W. Duncan of Rutland to Be
Tried Soon.
Rutland. Sept. 15.- The grand jury
in Rutland county court which began
work W ednesday under the direct inn of
State's Attorney ('. V. Poylin yesterday
JOIN FORCES
IN BIG CAUSE
Farming and Business Inter
ests of New England
Fropose to Unite
CONFERENCE HELD
AT SPRINGFIELD
Theodore N. Vail Made the
Opening Address Bc
for Conferees
MIRACULOUS ESCAPE
Springfield, Mass., Sept. 15. Plans for
the formation of a farm and busine
union to cover New England were dis-
usKeil at a conference of farmers and
business men here to-dav. Theodore N.
Vail made the opening address and Wil
son H. Jjee of New Haven acted a tem
porary chairman of the conference.
SUITOR RE-ELECTED
BY QUARRY WORKERS
Directum was paced by running horse L,,mirt ..,. . .nn. .., flr,i at . Vi,,th
and covered the first quarter in Kvenue train and the bullet flattened
seconds, the fastest in pacing history, jtself against the woodwork after grai
The second quarter was made in 2! sec
onds. He was driven by Thomas Murphy
of Poughkeepsie.
ALL ON BOARD
THOUGHT SAVED
ing the shoulder of a passenger.
Service on the subway and elevated
lines continued to be normal to-dav, but
the surface lines were still crippled.
INFORMED OF NOMINATION.
Marshall Received the Word
Last Evening.
WTl.n TMHr Tin.r rVmr.t. Prn ftff lOOBUS K
Oregon Coast There Were 423
. , I Indianapolis, Ind., Sept. 15. V ice I res
revPx " Ment Thmas R. Marshall was notified
Marshfield, Ore., Sept. 15. Fire last last night of his renomination for vice
night completely destroyed the Pacific I president on the Democratic ticket and
toast, company finer Congress two! formally accepted the honor. The cere
miles off Cross Bav bar. Several ves-1 monies were the third of the kind to
1 ...u:u 1 1 . 1 - i : 11. 1 : .. I I . 1 : . ... : I. : . 1. .. I
r,, . ,. i ner ss,s, r ... , i.rm ... ...u, ...,,.. - m Jeasod on bail, the case being held open
(eorge W. Ihmcan, former proprietor of
the I lollanil house here, who shot and
killed his wife at the home of a rela
tive in this city dining a fit of jealousy
a few week ago. Ihimuui is charged
with murder in the first degree. He will
will have his trial al the. present term
of oourt.
An unusual defence in a prosecution
for bigamy was begun yesterday when
(liarles J. ( onnell . ft this city, aged
about 22 years, petitioned the court to
annul his marriage to Marguerite Har
rett Oonnell of Watervliet, N. Y., which
took place in 1911. About a year ago
C'onnell, who had then been in Rutland
some time, was married to Miss Dorothy
C'arnell of this citv. Last January it was
discovered that he had a wife living at
Watervliet. He was arrested and re-
FLERS ALSO CAPTURED
BY THE BRITISH
Town Two Miles North of Ginchy Seized
and Troops Have Advanced to
Outskirts of Martin-puich.
London, Sept. 15. The British in their
offensive along the Somme front have
broken the third line of German defense
and taken Flers, two miles north of Gin
shy, according to a Reuter report. The
British forces are also reported to have
gained the outskirts of Martinpuich, a
mile and one-half east of Pozieres, the
report adds.
BULGARIANS RETREAT
AFTER TRIPLE DEFEAT
BY THE ENTENTE
Brilliant Victory Won By the Serbian
in Which They Captured 25 Can
non and a Large Number of
Prisoners.
Paris, Sept. 15. The entente allies
have won a series of successes on the
Macedonian front. The war office an
nounced to-day that French, British and
Serbian forces, operating at different
points, have woken through the Bulga
rian defenses. The French captured posi
tions half a mile deep over a front of a
mile.
A brilliant victory for the Serbians
over the Bulgarians was scored after a
battle lasting several days west of Lake
Ostrovo, near the western end of the
fighting line.
The British success was effected west
of Vardar, near the center of the entente
front, where they captured important po
sitions. . The lines forced by the French
were to the east of Vardar. The Serb
ians captured 25 cannon and a large
number of prisoners, as yet uncounted,
east of Vardar. The Bulgarians, after
their defeat, says the statement, retired
a distance of 12 miles.
move her 253 passengers and crew of tions were for J. Frank Hanlv, the Pro
170. It is believed that no lives were hibitkrn presidential candidate, and
lost, although this will not be established Charles W. Fairbanks, Republican vice
bevond a doubt until all boats which presidential nominee.
went to the scene have returned here. A large number of prominent Demo
When the dredge Michie and the gas crats, including National Chairman
schooner Tillamook reached the Congress Vance McOorinick, from all over the
they found the liner almost completely United States were present at the notifl-
shrouded in smoke, and the passengers cation. Informal political conferences
fighting frantically to enter the lifeboat, were held by the leaders and plans for
Despite the stress of the situation, how- the campaign were discussed thorough
ever, Captain X. E. Cousins and his crew ly. Reports of what had been done in
managed to maintain control and the Indiana were made to National Chair
work of transferring the people aboard man McCormick. ,
to the rescue vessels was carried out in Martin H. Glynn, former govcrnorlof
an orderly manner. New York, delivered the speech of no
Before the last boat load, in which titication after having been introduced
was Captain Cousins, left the Congress, bv J. A. M. Adair, candidate for governor
the smoke and heat were almost unbear- of Indiana, chairman of the ceremonies
able. Flames were shooting out of the All the speakers praised the present Dem
ship's ventilators and up the passage- ocratio administration, replied to the Re-
ways, publican attacks which had been made
Soon after the flames enveloped her on it and expressed confidence of a Dem-
from stem to stern, lighting the sky ocratio victory,
to a crimson hue. ith the wind and
tide the steamer then began drifting
in toward the spit of Coos bay.
FELL OFF CAR.
TALK OF THE TOWN
London, Sept. 15. An Exchange Tele
graph despatch from Saloniki says that
the victory won by the Serbians com
pelled the Bulgarians to retreat. The
Serbians are reported to have captured
more than 20 field guns. They took Bul
garian positions at Malkanidze, north
west of Lake Ostrovo, the despatch says,
whereupon the Bulgarians retired in the
direction of Fiorina. The Bulgarians are
also said to be retreating from their po
sitions further south.
Miss Mildred Churchill of Berlin was
among the business visitors in the city
yesterday.
Miss Harriet Lander of South Main
street is passing several days with
friends in Burlington.
Henry Manini, who has been in Bur
lington for several days on business, re
turned to Barre to-day.
Sibley oung resumed his duties at the
A. P. Abbott store this morning after
taking a vacation of a week.
Henry Freeman of Woodsville, N. IL,
was among the business visitors in the
city yesterday, returning to his home
this morning.
John D. Daniels, who has been visiting
in the city and East Barre since the first
of the month, left yesterday for his home
in Chazy, ti. Y.
Misa Gladys Gale and Kenneth Gale of
Wellington street left this morning for
Boston, where they will resume their
courses in music. .
Harold B. Scribner, who has been visit
ing friends on South Main street during
the past two weeks, left th!d morning for
his home in Pomfret.
Mrs. Alexander McLeay, who has been
making an extended sojourn with friends
and relatives in Barre and vicinity, left
this noon for her home in Portland. Me.
Miss Louise Hurry of upper Washing
ton street left yesterday for Rutland,
where she will visit at the home of Mrs.
Frank Barker during the remainder of
the month.
Mrs. Stella Laviolette of North Main
street left last night for Shelburne,
where she was called on account of the
severe sickness of her daughter, Miss
Lois Laviolette.
Miss Mildred Higg, who has been em
ployed at the Mountain View house at
Whitefield, X. H., during the past three
months, returned to her home on Tros-
pect avenue to-day.
Mr. and Mr. F. It. Abbott returned to
their home on West Patterson street last
night, after attending the state fair.
where Mr. Abbott had a display of the
Washington county crops.
H. u. Milton arrived in the citv this
Mrs. George Plummer of Winooski Re
ceived Bad Cut.
Burlington, Sept. 15. -Mrs. George
Plummer of the Heights, in Winooski,
was injured early last evening when
alighting from an Essex Junction line
trolley car near the Porter screen shops
on East Spring street. Just how the ac
cident occurred coilld not be ascertained,
but she was thrown violently to the
ground. A bad gash was cut in the back
of her head and she was also severely
bruised. She was picked up unconscious
and carried into the house of Martin
Welch at 154 East Spring street. Dr.
Edward A. Heath of Winooski attended
her. Later in the evening she was re
moved to her home. It was said last
evening that she was not thought to be
in a serious condition.
He now declares that he should be freed
from the New York state woman because
she misrepresented her physical .condi
tirm to him. 'll.eie is one child of eaui
marriage.
MONTPELIER
Rev. Thomas McCarthy is in Precarious
Condition.
Rev. Thomas McCarthy, assistant pas
tor of St. Augustine s church, was oper
ated on at Iloaton hospital yesterday
afternoon for intestinal trouble and his
condition is considered precarious. Rev
Fr. McCarthy has been in ill health for
a number of v. ars and was taken to the
hospital early in the week for treat
ment, and an operation was decided upon
being performed by Dr. McSweeney of
Burlington, assisted by Dr. Shay ot that
city.
BRADFORD MAN WON CASE.
In
I noon and m'ill visit relative in th ritv
London, Sept. 15. The renewal of for a ffw jaTgi whj en route from his
Had Been Sued for Alleged Deceit
Sale of Farm.
Woodsville. X. IL, Sept. 15.--In the
case of Irving K. Bean of Lisbon vs. Fred
H. Bickford of Bradford, Vt., to recover
damages for alleged deceit in the pur
chase of a farm, heard in the superior
court, the jury found a verdict last night
for the defendant, after being out about
an hour.
HEARS SISTER IS DYING.
Pres. Wilson May Go Late To-day to
New London, Conn.
Long Branch, X. J., Sept. 15. Presi
dent Wilson received word to-day that
his sister, Mrs. A. E. Howe, was sinking
rapidly. Tentative plans were made im
mediately for his departure later to-day
for Xew London, Conn. In case of Mrs.
Howe's death, it was stated the president
probably would go to South Carolina for
the funeral.
START FOR HOME TO-NIGHT.
Miss Elva Worthing, who has been
passfng the summer with her father,
1). Worthing on ine street, left this
forenoon for Union, X. J., where she has
been a member of the teaching force of
the public schools for three years.
Reports from Heaton hospital to-day
were to the effect that Gerald Taylor, the
young man who suffered severe injuries
when he fell in the city hnll I uesday
evening, continues to show slight im
provement
Abert Laird, who is employed at Brat
tleboro bv the National Life Insurance
company, is spending a week in the city
with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Fred L.
Leird
In prolate court C. D. Edperton of
Northfield has been appointed admin
istrstor of the estate of Alice Hitchcock,
late of Northfield. IT. W. Brooks has
settled his accounts ns administrator of
the estate of W. J. Scvery, late of Wat
erbiirv. IT. M. Farnham and C. V. Kent
of Montpelier have been appointed ad
ministrators of the estate ot Herbert A.
Kent, late of Calais. Henry W. Nichols
of Middlesex was appointed adminis
trator of the estate of Paul:ne S. Lewis,
late of Middlesex. Mrs. Mer'e A. Palm
er of Duxburv settled the account of
Eber W. Huntley as trustee of a fund
created by the will of Christopher C.
Sheple. Augustus Rossi of Karre settled
his account as administrator of the es
tates of Joseph Hianehi. late of Barre
City. Ervin C- Ellis of "Brattleboro set
tled his account as trustee of a fun
created by the will of Polly D. Russell,
late of Northfield.
Frank Fitzsimmons returned last
evenine from New York Citv. where
he was called last week by the death of
a cousin.
Frank J. Lloyd, cashier of the Hart
ford, Conn., office of the Travelers' In
surance company, nas a visit-r in me
city yesterday, calling on Richard Jer
ome, who was formerly employed by that
company in Hartford.
Mrs. M. D. Miller, of tate street
left last nicht for St. Louis. Mo., and
other pla.-es in the middle West, where
she formerly resided, for a viMt with
relatives.
E. A. Harris, office manager of the
Tenney company in this city, left last
i evening for Melrose. Mass., and will re
i turn to-morrow w ith Mrs. Harris and
Barre Man Received Unanimous Election,
All Other Candidates Having With
drawn Before Voting Began
for International Secretary-Treasurer.
From the 75 branches of the Quarry
Workers' International union scattered
throughout the I'nited States anil Can
ada, returns indicate that Fred W. Suitor
has been unanimously re-elected to the
office of secretary and treasurer for the
enuing two years. At the outset there
were two other candidate for the office
in the sense that their names were pre
sented by branches. John King of Gran
ilcville, who was the nominee of the
Bethel branch, withdrew from a ossihle
contest as soon as he was advised of the
action taken by the Windsor county
quarry-workers. The same stand was
taken' by P. J. Dacey of Milford. Mass.,
when the branch in his home city pre
sented his name.
Thus the withdrawal of Messrs. King
and Dacey left the field to Mr. Suitor
and the voting thereafter was of a na
ture more or less perfunctory. Each
branch, however, polled its preference j
and the returns from all corners of the
great area embraced by the association
have been tabulated by the executive
council.
The return of Mr. Suitor to the re
sponsibilities of the two offices furnishes
striking evidence of the confidence re
posed in him by quarry-workers wher
ever they are organized in the I'nited
States and Canada. Since the last elec
tion -in 1014 the secretary-treasurer
has been called upon to handle some very
delicate situations. A large number of
agreements have expired and in practi
cally cverv instance settlements wholly
satisfactory' tn the union members have I
For Five Occupants of Ford Car Which
Slid Over Bank Near Sharon.
That live per s hi in a Ford automobile
were not killed or ernuly iiijtiied wiu-n
their car pitched over a 20-foot hank on
the main highway south of the village of
Slmroii yesterday a the car turned out
for another Ford a roadster seemed
uiiiaciiloti to those who came along and
saw the position of the wrecked vehicle
alter it had tinned turtle and lodged half
way down the bank against a small tree
A it turned out, only Mr. Henry Bidden
ot Rochester wa injured to any extent
and Hhe siiMaincd nothing more serious
than the erackinu of a Isuie in her breast
Her hlislwnd wan under the ear when
rescued ami he spit considerable blood,
but was able to be alxuit. other in the
car were Kred Hidden and Wilfred and
Joseph Audetle,
Die members of the party in the Roch
ester car put the blame for the accident
on the driver of the ton) roadster, claim
ing that he crowded them and that in
passing, both going southward, the rear
end of hi vehicle hit their and shoved
it over the edge of the Iwnk. The lielden
car was running very near to the edge in
order to give all the room possible to the
car coming up behind, whose horn was
lading sounded for the right of way and
which was traveling at n fairly smart
pare. The Ford roadster did not stop a
the Ford touring car slid over the bank.
Word wa telephoned southward just a
soon as possible and several er-ons
claim to have seen the Ford roadster,
containing a man and a boy, making fast
time.
l-ate in the afternoon a Ford roadster
numbered 240 Vt. and carrying a man
and a boy returned, and the driver, who
turned out to be W. I). Walker of Mont
pelier R. F. D. route, said he was accused
at the state fair grounds of having struck
another car, pushing it over the bank.
.Mr. Walker thought he wasn t to blame
and that he did not hit the car. There
were no recent telltale marks on his car
to substantiate the claim of the Beldcn
car occupants, but the latter declared at
once that the Walker vehicle was the one
that passed them. There were threats of
legal action against him.
The car from Rochesfcr was consider
ably damaged. The windshield was brok
en and the right axle was bent, besides
minor effects of rolling down a bank.
The car was held at the acute angle in
which it. had stopped by means of ropes
until such time as wreckers could come
and hoist it up the bank. During the day
all the occupants of the car in its plunge
were able to return to the scene of the
disaster, including Mrs. Beldcn. who had
boen unconscious. She was attended by
Dr. C. P. Munsell at South Rovalton.
The place where the car went over is
plenty wide enough for two automobiles
to pass safely, but there is no guardrail
along the high bank bordering on the
White river. It is near the Sharon dam.
The car from Rochester was numbered
2"247 Vt. and is registered in the name of
Henry Belden.
COUNTY COURT
WORK DRAGS
Fourth Day Opened Without
Case Ready for
Trial
CHL'T WITNESS
i IN CASE ABSENT
Next'vJase Nichols vs. Emer
son on Schedule This
Afternoon
The fourth day of the September terra
of Washington county court, which
opi ned Tuesday, found no cases ready
for trial by jury, the principal witness
in the case of Lippencott Vs. A. Malnati
& Co. failing to arrive from Boston
as was expected.
Argument were made yesterday be
fore Judge Fish and Assistant Judge
Dale and Dana as to whether the appeal
in the case had been properly entered.
Ine court found that the appeal should
stand, and the case was ready for trial
the afternoon; but the non-arrival
of the witness caused the day to be
pased w ithout being utilized.
J his forenoon the court was ready for
the commencement of the case, but the
witness had failed to arrive during tha
night, and the forenoon was wasted.
The cae of Frank H. Nichols vs. . M.
Emerson, assumpsit, was scheduled to b
taken up at 2 o'clock this afternoon,
Davis appearing for the plaintiff and
Hoar for the defendant.
RURAL PROGRESS FAIR.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mrs. George A. Mosher, who has been
passing the summer at the home of her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Bern is of
Ixtng street, returned last evening to
Brighton, Mass.
Dr. II. A. Miller returned to his home
in Philadelphia, Pa., last night after a
short stay at the home of B. H. Humph
rey of Elmore street.
Mrs. R. Cerini of Willey street and
daughter, Mrs. A. Tosi, will leave to
night for Buffalo, X.'Y., where they will
To Be Held at Plainfield Saturday, Octo
ber 7.
In the interests of the pupils of the
public schools, farmers and citizens of
Plainfield and vicinity, all organizations
in town, are to unite in the promotion
of a fair to be held on Saturday. Oct.
won nnir hnhnnrta whii left, vester.lav
been reached. Mr. Suitor was called from for BllfTal0i where tlter have fomul em
the Granitevillc branch in 1910 to take ,..,,,
up the duties of the office and with his
re election this week he enters upon his
fourth term.
J. J. DERVEN PRESIDENT
Of Ancient Order of Hibernians Conven
tion at Poultney Ends.
Poultnev, Sept. 15. The annual meet
ing of the Ancient Order of Hibernians,
which opened at A. O. H. hall in this
town Wednesday evening, came to a close
last evening. High mass was celebrated
by Rev. Bernard Kclley, pastor of the
hurch. The sermon was delivered by
Rev. W. P. Crosby of Proctor. Fathers
Cullinan and Howard were on the altar.
Special music was furnished by the regu
lar choir, assisted by Messrs. Smith, Ed
wards and Hughes, with violin music by
Brmnan.
Following the mass the members
marched to the town hall, where they
were welcomed bv O. W. Spallholz. prcsi'
president, responded for the A. (). IL, and
dent of the village. Dr. J. J. Dcrven. state
Miss Mabel Force of West Rutland, vice
president of the auxiliary, spoke for the
ladies.
Business meetings at Hibernian hall
followed, morning and afternoon sessions
being held. Resolutions were adopted.
proclaiming the loyalty of the order and
individual members to the mother church,
and recognizing the Irish Republican tri
color flag, under which President Patrick
Pcarse and his associates fought, as the
emblem ef true Irish nationalism. An
other resolution denounced England for
insults to American rights and citizens
and requesting the moral support of all
civilized nations in insisting upon justice
to Ireland.
The following officers were elected for
the ensuing two years: State president,
lr. J. J. Dcrven of Poultney: vice-president,
M. H. Connelly of Ludlow: secre
tary, T. A. Mullaney of West Rutland;
treasurer, J F. Moloney of Rutland.
The ladies' auxiliary elected these offi
cers: State president, Miss Katherine
McCaffrey of Burlington; vice-president.
Miss Mabel Force of West Rutland; sec
retary, Miss Mary Connors of Rutland;
treasurer. Miss Hastings of Montpelier.
A banquet was served, last evening in
Odd Fellows' hall under the management
of the Hotel Poultney. Dr. P. H. Ma
honey of Poultney acted as toastmaster.
The following responded to toasts: Revs.,
Co. C of First Vermont Infantry Will Be
" "I I r t.U. Maaa . ,1 til - I .-. , n . ...
in Vermont Earlv Next Week j"....K " r .... .... ..... ..... t rosnv. nowarn, iveuey. ur. ierven. .Miss
j turn to-morrow wun .Mrs. iiams ana MeOiffrey, j. F. Moloney, John McGuirk.
Eagle Tass. Tex., Sept. 15. Company i children, they having secured a house on Kidvvitt. James Hora'n. John Flanna-
plovment.
Last evening the Beckley street resi
dents assembled for the second time this
season and enjoyed a corn and marsh
mallow roast in one of the Beckley hill
groves. About 40 people, old and young,
managed to get together and mkke the
evening merry with various games and
jests.
L. J. Bell and Ira X. Houston returned
yesterday from White River Junction,
where their stay at the state fair was
cut short bv an accident which occurred
as they were nearing the grounds in their
racer-runabout. As the car was proceed
ing at a moderate rate of speed, a defec
tion in the steering gear did not lead to
any dangerous consequences for the oc
cupants. The machine was left in White
River Junction and Messrs. Hell and
Houston returned to Barre bv train.
fieorge Ross of New York, an organizer
for the Socialist party, who ha a been
passing several days in Barre, left last
night for Northfield. where he is to re
main with the recently reorganized local
for a few days before going to White
River Junction. Mr. Ross will complete
a two months' stay in Vermont by visit
ing members of the party in Bellows
Falls, Windsor, Brattleboro and Rutland.
During his sojourn in the state he has
revived the local in Northfield and re
organized the Hardwick local. Socialist
leaders in Barre sav that both locals are
now flourishing with good promises of
increasing in membership. The organizer
is a graduate of the Rand School of So
cial Science in New York and expects to
return to Vermont in the winter. A branch
of the party has been formed in Morris
ville since he came into the state.
Traveling men who make Barre their
headquarters reort that several hostel
ries throughout the state have raised
their day rates from ?2.")0 to $3.50 on ac
count of the rising cost of foodstuffs.
Corroboration of this report is found in
circulars sent out by prominent hotel
men, who announce that the price of
meals and lodging will be increased after
a certain date. When asked concerning
local hotel prices this morning. Manager
I. V. Rowen stated that so far as Hotel
Barre is concerned the rates will remain
stationary for the present, at least. It
There will be a full day's program, be
ginning with a street parade at 10 a. m.
The parade is in charge of a committee
from the Odd Fellows. Dinner at noon
in the Odd Fellows' dining hall, handled
by the ladies of the Sons and Daughters
of the American Revolution, 2,c per
plate. The afternoon will be full of
sports which are in charge of the Junior
Order of American Mechanics.
The exhibit will be in the opera house
and will be handled by committees of
the grange, the ladies of the Village Im
provement society and others. A special
feature will be the exhioit of the school,
as many of the boys and girls are' in
clubs for extension work and have been
doing creditable work throughout the
summer with the vegetable gardens and
in the raising of poultry and swine.
All prizes will be honorary. Farmers,
farmers' wives and citizens employed in
any industry are invited to bring arti
cles for exhibit. W atch for full particu
lars on printed poster.
NEVER SEE HIM AGAIN
Wrote Herbert Barrett of Mount Holly
to His Wife.
Mount Holly, Sept. 15. Herbert Bar
rett, about oP years old, a farmer living
in Hortonville in this town, has been
missing from his home since Monday and
his wife fears he has taken his own life.
In a brief note mailed at Ludlow, which
Mrs. Barrett received Tuesday morning,
the missing man stated she would never
sec him again, the only motive he gave
for disappearing being that he was un
able to pay his debts.
Mr. Barrett drove to Ludlow Monday
morning for the purpose of selling his
butter and eggs. After disposing of his
produce he met Jerry Buckley, a young
man living on a neighboring farm, and
asked him to drive his team home as
he would be detained in Ludlow until
afternoon. He stated that he would
return home on the mail train which
arrives at this station about 1:30 o'clock.
Mr. Buckley drove the team home, tell
ing Mrs. Barrett that her husband would
return a few hours later. He did nob
notice anything strange in Mr. Barritf
actions during the conversation with him
at Ludlow.
Tuesday morning Mrs. Barrett received
the note mailed nt Ludlow, thi bein;f
the last word she has had from him. Sho
fearg his mind was unbalanced through
worry over his financial affairs and that;
he has made away with himself. Mr.
and Mrs. Barrett have a aon, Charles,
who lives at home.
It is understood that there has been
insanity in Mr. Barrett' family, at
least two of his relatives having com
mitted suicide.
, KILLED BY HORS.
Fairfax Girl Sustained Fracture of the
SkuIL
Jieavy fighting in Mesopotamia, with the
British on the offensive, is reported tn a
delayed official statement issued at Con
stantinople Sept. 9. The British are said
to have lost 2.000 in one engagement.
COMBLES SQUEEZED.
VQlag Seemi Likely to Fall Before Joint
Attack.
London, Sept. 15. Be wet by the Brit
ish on the west and the French on the
, lYt riile o t'omble. in the
C and the medical department leave for i Ridire street.
home In Dorchester. Mass., to Burlington. Jhome Friday night, ginb by way of New j Occupants of
where he will enter the I'niversitv of J Orleans and Washington, D. C. of the .f. .1.
Vermont next week
Through the D. A. Perry Real Fstate
agency another cify real estate deal has
been consummated, the property being
the two-tenement home m North Main
treet at the junction of Second street,
formerly owned by Mrs. Mary H. Inie!
of Northampton, M.. and C. W. Perrr
of thia eity, and old to Mr. and Mr. t".
Buaaiere of Barre. Mr. and Mr. Bm
aiere bought the place for a home. The
consideration a about f.l.f.'O.
It Often Happens So.
the tenement in the rear
Williams garage on Main
street were forced to contend witi a
chimney fire last evening, b:it succeeded
in putting it out without railing on the
srin. D. J. Halcv. M.
B. J. Costello.
H. Connolly and
LOST CONTROL OF CAR.
He How did tnu come out financially Jfire department for aid. The buildings
with Tour entertainment for the old la-!in the jcinitv are so closely croupe.!
S. S. Washer of West Dummerston Was
Thrown Out; Not Madi Hurt.
St. Albans. Sept. 15. Alma, the two-vear-'dd
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Thorn-
is understood that other public houses in! King of Fairfax, died yesterday at
Barre do not contemplate any immediate j the ho.pital in this city, w here she w
hange in rates. I broug'it about an hour before, auer n
D. A. Perrv returned to his home onjhad been struck by a horse. The lit -
the Montpelier road l.-t evening from tie girl's father was watering the norm
the I-ancaMer fair at lncaster. N. IL. i w hen hc was struck, her skull beinif
which was held during the p.it week, j fractured.
Mr. Perry conducted the sale of purebred !
tioi'ieins i nai were put up at auction iv
N. H. Katman of Urovcton. N. IL, and!
F. D. Steven of Riverton. X. H. This I
was the first time that an auction sale i
has ever been a feature at the Ijincaster (
fair, but on account of the success f tl.e !
sale durinc the pt ;k and the hit'ft
LAST DAY OF STATE FAIR
CALLED OFF; WET GROUNDS.
prices that the stock ws knocked down;
that 'V-uM a fire gain much of a start.! Brattleboro, Sept. 15. S. S. Washer of ,,tt the management of the fair are mak-
dies" home?
he The old ladies owe us f,Vl. Fact i .ierl Mxk would he seriouslv threat-j est immmersion Kl control ot n:s ,nR plans to mcke t' e auction a.e
nd Fancies. 'enel. 'automobile on the way to Brattleboro ; -tron? feature in the future. There were I
j Attorney Max I Powe!l of RurPnrt on ' yesterday and the machine ran into ajss heJ of stock dd. varyinsr from .!-"!
wa i returned this forenoon to hi home atterlbank and w badly damaged- Mr. 'in f.Vsl. wit!: an aw-race .-f : months')
William Park of Waterhury
among the bume vii?r in the eitThvin been in the r.ty fr two dv en 'Washer was thrown out and hi heallealve eelllrr t the r?e of f)7- and 2" I I
yesterday. cuntT court ma'ters. cut but he e--spel serious injury, cows totaling t-5-""1-
Whit- Ricr .lumtion, Sept. 15.
Ow ing fr- the ery nravy rains of
the niomirg an ! the cx.nsequ -nt
soaking ol the grounds, the state
fair wa d'-ehircl closed thia fore
n on. the rce end the rct of the
rrosram l ing t a'led off. Those
who attended were given free ad-nu-'ion
to the grounds.
