9
NEW MEXICO STATE RECORD
S1.50 A YEAR.
SANTA FE NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15,
NUMBER 103
y
QUEBEC BRIDGE
SPAN SINKS 200
FEET IN RIVER
Mouinauian fronts there have been
no important changes.
I New York Transit Strike
1 The interborough Rapid Transit j
.ami Hie rMcw lork hallways com
'panies have formally rcjiited the
j Itil!io service comiiii -' sif "i" i nconi
imendation for a strike settlement.
I Til c two companies, controlling the
:liwav, elevated and "geen ca,'
SECOND COLLAPSE LARGEST snrfacr lines, declined to hold furth
RRinfiF FVFR RUILT IS " c"l,C""tl. , - ni iiives
MAINE GOES
REPUBLICAN
BY 14,000
f tUe union, and announced that it
i their intention to continue to op-
lerate their lines on the present bsis.
The formal rejection, presented hy
(Richard R. Ropers, general coun--cl
to the Iwo companies roads:
; "The fntcrhorrough Rapid Transit
company respectfully represents tol
, the commission that it cannot arhi-i
, Irate its rights to enter into agree-1
Intents with 10,3U6 of its employes!
'out of a total of ll.St'K). when the!
jimployes wflo have signed are eon-, AS
MENT IN NEW YORK CITYjtogt with these agreement, a id a-.-
EEJECTED. STREET RAIL- 'l'"ll.:il'f'ri','!;, ,r' "rry ,Vm !"
;good i a 1 1 1 1 .
WAYS EXPECT TO CON- j Tu;
agreements referreil to are the
"master and servant contracts,
which hind the men not to ask for
hetiernient of
CAUSE OF II DEATHS FIRST;
COLLAPSE KILLED 70
LATEST NEWSOF
WARRING EUROPE
?LAN FOR STRIKE SETTLE-
TTNTTB OPERATIONS
TWO SENATORS AND FOUR
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
ELECTED ON NATIONAL
REPUBLICAN TICKET
THE DEMOCRATIC
GOVERNOR BEATEN
, wage increases or
Quelle,, Out., Sept. 11. The new j working conditions for two years
central span of the Quebec bridge, i The distribution of the contracts
tec largest cantilever sttscpeiision inainong the Intorborrottgh and
tb world, collapsed and fell into thejear" employes forced the strike
Sa Law ren-e river while being hiost-jjon leaders claim
e into place today. The St. I.aw-
MAINE GOES SO
THE NATION. A SLOGAN
WHICH HAS NEVER YET
FAILED AND REPUBLICANS
JUBILANT
now ts't-
rence IlrMgc company
mates the dad at 11.
Bridge To Cost 17,OW WO
The In, due was being constructed
at a cost of $'.7,000,000 in order to
shorten tin- railway journey from
Hajifax to the Canadian northwest
by 200 miles. The bridge stands on
the site f the structure which col
l.-psed on gust 29, 1907
loss of 70 lives.
M Mea Fall With Bridge
The central span, which fell
weighs more than 5000 tons and is
640 feet long. The collapse occurred
when the span was about IS feet in
the air There were ninety men on
the structure when it fell.
Sink 2M Feet Into River
The fallen structure sank 200 feet
htto the hottom of the river and en
gineers who witnessed the Collapse
expressed doubts as to whether it
woul ever he brought up again. ADVISORY
Observers said that the span broke
in two places first one of the corn
ers appeared to give way, this heinc
'otlowed aimost immediately by a
break u. the center.
Span Towed Into Position
The spin had been constructed on
pontoons i few miles east .of the
bridge site and was towed into po
sition immediately under the giap left
in the anchor arms of the structure.
Chains .TO inches in diameter, to
gether with the girders, were then
attached to the span and ROOO-ton
hydraulic jack commenced the stup
endous task of Ifting the span into
place.
Raisin- It Wat Week' Ta.k
This work could he accomplished
only a few feet an hour, ami as the
Portland, Me., Sept. .12 .- The thor
ougncss of the republican victory at
green (, e polls yesterday was emphasized
as the returns, from isolated towns
and plantations straggled in today.
Following the reply of the traction Revised figures place the plurality
organizer for New Mexico for Young
Men's Republi.n clubs and First
Voters' Leagues. Mr. Hughes, wit ii
Judge, (ieorye K. Craig as his assis-i
I taut will begin bis work immediate-,
.y with the enthusiastic backing of
the state committee am with the as
sistance of some thirty leading Ke
: publican business and professional
men, from every county in the state'
who arc an,ious to see the younger
men become active in I.cpublican J
party affairs. Several of these men!
will put in the next three or (our!
i weeks at Republican, state hradpiar-!
lers directing the organization work.
1 Mr. Hughes will begin his work
in the field tonight in a big Republi-;
Judge Craig and A. I!. Rciichan of
can meeting at Raton where with
Santa Fe he will address the people!
and place before them details f the,
: Young Republican organization row
GOES sl"-iie-ing "l all over tin- country
Saturday night the w irkers will bold
another meeting ill I. as Ycg-i.s and
on Tuesday the first Id,. ":theri.,g
! iiie campaign will i.c acid .y then,
in Alluupicnpic. They go i,, lial-
! I" p Wednesday night, September JO.
I Thereafter the party will divide.
Judge Craig going into eastern New
PINCHOT TELLS
WHY HE IS OUT
FORHUGHES
WILSON HAS SET THE PORK
BARREL FIRST AT THE EX
PENSE OF EFFICIENCY
AND ECONOMY
PLACED PROFIT.
BEFORE PRINCIPLE
I We have all heard him declare for
efficiency in government, and have
seen 1 1 i in set the pork-barrel first
ami throw efficiency away. I have
known official Washington from the
the inside for six administrations. In
that time the government business '
has never been so badly done and
so extravagantly as it is no., dom
under Wilson.
We have all heard !:im inrt..:in,v
himself as the champion of civil ser
vile reform: and hac seen lu'i'i t"rn
the government departments over to
the spoilsmen as no other pre-i'deni
has done in twenty years.
We have all heard hiin declare for
pitiless ptddicity: and have seen him
conduct the most secret adtnini-tta
ftVn of our time.
We hive al' heard i-im an'o.nnie
himself as president of all ibe p. ...
ide. ami have seen him as the rn '
FIRST BIG RALLY
OF CAMPAIGN
ISJONIGHT
JUDGE M. E. HICKEY OF AL
BUQUERQUE TO DELIVER
ADDRESS ON STATE AND
NATIONAL ISSUES.
FIRST REPUBLICAN
CLUB TO BE FORMED
HUGHES IS A MAN OF HIS
WORD, HONEST, FEAR
LESS, FREE FROM DOMA
NATION OF INTERESTS
AND CORRUPTION
erti.iTi pn
flout anil i
whom now,
he s.-.-ks to
Word of
dent of 1,
'I'I'O
bee
s eem-rat,
I Voeres . i ,
'nci'Mte r?m
this: When ,
i rineiple of freed'',,, and eijuili'y
which our father's fought wis
stake in the ureal war, when
whole country eagerly awaited
t ;
,1
Mexico and Mr. Hughes to the south
ern part of the state. As !ji, down
g
Mr
epi
I'll!
the
the
companies, the strikers,
A7m Tt Ci t -w erf m A nfAttAr-it OriT!nIv.l l.O r. i '
cani)aign will result in
ganization of a rlnb of vmin-j K'e
publicans in ever town and in prac
every precinct in the state.
id,
M.
throtiuli i-sf r.,.rr.- .it r-.i b i:n:i tically
" ,s U.HLMnri-uiVl vail IX. Hi UllhLII.
republican over Governor Oaklev C.
er of the Amalgamated Association i Curtis af 1.1,355. II CAMTA DITI
of Electric and Street Railway Em- Returns from the order show that." OMUIA III I A
. t r . e : - .l -. I . . . ... . .
pioyes, imormea tne coiiipainex in u ttie men ot the Second Maine infan
tile strikers could not accede to thu j try cast a total vote of 450, of which
request of the commission to bring Milliken received 300.
I'hiladelpl,
Frank Staplm.
Editor State K
i Santa I'e, N'i
I Dear Sir :
! It is ibe dul. of every American
jcitieu to make and support openly
I his choice among the candidates for
at
our
the
FIRST VOTERS LEAGUE FOR
THIS CITY AND COUNTY
ALSO TO BE ORGANIZED.
MEETING STARTS AT 8
SHARP.
leadership of the president, WiUon
dodged. He refused to take side
on the L'reaest moral lins of our
time, lie advised our people to he
"neutral even in thought," undecid
ed between riudit and wroriLr. Whi'e
inutile
To the republican state and county
committees working jointly belong!
the credit of arranging the first lug
rally of the lld campaign in New
Mexico. It will be held in the Santa
Vn rountv court house tonight, be
friends abroad were fighting for ginning promptly at 8 o'clock, and
principles we held equally with 'judge M. E. Ilickcy of Albuquerque,
the strike to an immediate conclu
sion, in view of the stand taken by
with athe traction companies.
He accepted, in behalf of the union
the recommendation that the ques
tions at issue be submitted to arbitration.
Pluralities for the republicans, who.
will send a solid delegation to con-'
gress, were unchanged from the fiff-
tires of last night as were the plural
MINER DEFENDS
GOV. M'DONALD
REPUBLICANS JOIN
IN EARNEST FIGHT
TO CARRY STATE
you my reasons for my own choice
jlf you arc to lay them before your
readcrs, please do so, but not lie
I fore Monday morning. September. 11
ities of Frederick Hale and former DOES NOT THINK THIS PA. I I am neither a democrat nor a t-
the preside ncy, lliat duty is espe-: tbem, he taught us that profits and one of the foremost lawyers of the
cially solemn this year because great ease were better than self-respect, j state, will deliver the principal ad
t vents and great decisions are cer-1 President Wilson has done our na- dress, dealing, with the foremost is
tain to confront us during the next tion the most serious injury that any (sues of the campaign, both national
administration. 1 am writing to givcjlinder can do to any people by inak-'and state.
ing us flinch with him from a great! Two other speakers will deliver
(Continued from page ffve.) ! short addresses dealing with indi
OTTPJP ICiniMP vidua! issues, and the whole pro-
olAItu LlAUIIiU gram will be confined to one hour.
rn...n 1) -. If TS I i 1 I '
s"""i'" .'i i. rcruaiu, rcpuoil-1
cans who were elected to the United!
States senate. j
The republicans who have held a '
majority in the state legislature say
it will control both houses by a good
working majority. '
The revised vote in the Maine elec-!
tion follows: Governor Milliken. Mr
republican, 72,92; Curtis, democrat,!
159:547.
AVl United States senators
PER IS GIVING, THE GOV-
HIS OFFICIAL RECORD.
publican, but a Progressive. Yet. j
there being no Progressive nom- '
ERNOR A FAIR DEAL ON i,u'os. ""less I choose to support a
candidate w ho can not be elected, I
1 must vote for either Wilson or;
Hughes. i
For many months after bis inaug
uration, I thought welt of President
Wilson. In many respects I liked
what he said about what he was
JURIST DIEO
Short, snappy, interesting meetings
Santa Rita, N. M.
Sep. the 11th.
Stapelingh
State Record,
Santa Fee.
WEDNESDAY
JUDGE POPE SUCCUMBS TO
PERNICIOUS ANEMIA
HIS OLD HOME; TO BE
BURIED HERE SATURDAY.
I will be the unvarying rule of Repub
licans in this campaign. There will
Ibe no tiresome sessions.
Elaborate arrangements have been
made for the meeting tonight, by an
arrangements committee with Col.
Jose D. Sena as chairman.
I The court room has been decor
AT ated and a number of leading repub
licans, their wives and several wom
en who are leaders in the movement
for women's suffrage, will occupy
scats on the platform. A special in-
, I have jest red sum of your dam going to do. He talked well and1
COUNCIL OF V, Von,? snators: HaIc: r,-ifootc stuff about our god Guvnor 'made a g,od impression. It was on-1
TWENTY BUSINESS AND 70 r u ' tr,' repU"""n' Hon. Wm. C. MacDonald, in which "licn I began ,0 check up what I
rowmsowHiunum, ,hrre an f . ... ! torcct to change my view. ,,
ALL PARTS OF STATE VOL-!., r e. or distroyd. i In the end I came to see that Pre- U. Pope. Judge Pope died at bis old tions of the seats have been reserve-t
Now Mr. Staneliin- vo make nie,'""1 Wilso" lla5 a neater power home in Atlanta, Ga., at 3 o'clock ,or rne,r ",c-
UNTEER FOR CAMPAIGN
Goodall, republican,
19.732; Stevens, democrat, Irt.103:
White, republican. 19.157: McGilli-
cuddv. democrat. 1R.770' Peters r...'VCT' ,ir''1- Yo r"h '' r('"'
Santa Fe, N. M Sept. I5,-Twfii- o! -Jian. nnl,,.r ,!,.,. r,i -'nough to kno that the guvnor has
ty republican business and profes- j ,8 277. Hersey, republican. S,(Y6 ;' ! sumthing else to do than tniinky with
sional men, coming from every sec- pi(,rce jcmncrati 11,013. ' ( any more records than them in which
tion of the state among the business; ' lie has an interest and to kep al of
men in New Mexico have volun-I State'. Heaviest Vote it,,(m docimentery things he gets
teered their time and efforts from 1 . ... . ; wood be lak;,, 1 ,,,. ;., n,..
-capital house.
W hat h
Word was received Wednesday ot vitation has been extended to the
death of Federal Indue William ;,n,a -e anrt special sec-
it-I.Alc ,,stinri id tf--.1 11 ti tupri 11 ,r itif1ii':t.
distance from the river level to the- the eanlcstness with which Rc.
floor ot the. Prinze is iou ieci, mc
State'. Heavie.t Vote
-IM. I . . , ,
now until election day as assistants 1 nc '-"est vote m tue History 01
to the republican stale committee in!Mai,lc was cast at -Ile state election
the campaign to carry New Mexico I yesterday. The total vote will ap-
in November fo the whole Reuiii)li-,l""x""il-c 111 -"' ' l"'-"
can ticket. These men compose
whollv branch of Republican cam- " lclow l- - "e "-s-eipt
paign work in New Mexico, and
than any other man in public life that morning. Ile had been ill for a
to say one thing but do another. jr time, and during the past year
and get away with it. : or ,. , was a semi-invalid, but
The facts which justify this state-' heroically performed his work on
nient are common knowledge. the benHi. His illness was diagnosed
We have all heard him teil Gcr- as pernicious anemia, a disease that,
many publicly that she would be in effect, thins the blood until it can
The principal object of the meet
ing tonight is the organization of
a youngi men's republican club, and
a first voters' league for the city and
county of Santa Fe. A similar meet
ing will be tinder way at the same
hour in las Vegas, where a great
crowd is assured from all parts of
engineers bad not counted on cotn-
I publicans generally are going into
held to strict account;, bdiiv .nnl no longer nerform its function
have 1e.-.r,,..l ;,fler:,r,l tl,,. I.,. 1....I Ulo-n .. of Imlee Pnr.e's emt Sa" Miguel County. It is all a part
sed wiiz, and 1 coppy trom ,..,, cj ..'., , ;..,! k r Vf r,,.,
bis speach in the Mexican, that date, ,1 . . ' . 1 .1 , , ' ' , ' . c. '. n
' that tune, bv the 111 n r ti of his see- dent ot the State Mar association, a
dential election and two years ago it that ne w,,ort 'rov '- b.v H'ole) : n.,.iry of slat(. ,,. ,u. Austrian meeting was called iinmediatel v at
fell below 1J2.IKJO. The receipt to-, ,,,e reeort that are all available' rin,hassador, that what he said be Alhuquenpie, Resolutions of regret
day of the vote from the borden andjam' he "ot s'd cny word not one ,j,i nioa. yc jKVe all seen were passed and honorary pall bear
a few isolated towns increased the about them records that are not him prove that he .lid not mean it crs to serve at the funeral, which will
plurality of Milliken, republican, for available or eny of them that are bv his total failure to e:;act repar-.be held here Saturday afternoon
governor over Governor Oakley C. only part available, you dam fill, for ation, apology ,,r even disvowal for 'were named.
this campaign.
The new workers Curtis, democrat, from the indicated yon kno that wen a man has lots of the murder of Americans
pleting ttie operation mini i.i- ;.,.. , i.nnwn tue -Hvisorv coun-! 1 ILr"res 01 '.-luu last "wit to I.J.KIW. bizms some paper gets lost and l insitania
h.o uiL' nr inter i ne nrmee ... !
1 in-
service next spring, marking an im
sAn rttt't,,itA In f.inada's pngill-
r . " itinuous
eenng railway History.
Thnn.and. Witnessed Cra.h
The jugnling of 5000 tons of steel
under unprecedented circumstances
attracted several thousand snerta-
.1 I.. ... 1 - r -.ri:
tors, inc,....,..g incm.-ov-.s o, i"-'"-romci, wi ,ie to at,vise
ment and newspaper me,, gathered .
Judge Pope was born in flei'.tiforl.
S C. in 1H70. lie was educated at
cil. They gathered first in Santa -. jmn a uies ior uie ouier sonie parts of some gets lost or takin 1 do not ay that Wilson -!:oul 1 llc t niversity ot Ueorgia, graduat
Fe on' Snndav and have been ill republican candidates were con- awa.. and so ,i,PV are not u ava;. have thrust us into war There w.-is '"K ''W, and for a time taught a:
session since.
session
They will be in con-1 rm W a revision 01 tne vote. 1 lie able so i want you to giv this letter! no need of war. But there was need cu"1 h'"g".-ces there He was a,'
from now until el- j repun.icaus nave solid uetegatioiis m ike prornn;ince ,Iiat von irive vour of courage to give us peace with m.tte.I to the bar in 1890 and ram
to New Mexico t.. enrage in .r.U'
dominion cai.inet w.tnessea .ne .-- ,. burea and the publicity
iapsc iron, (.n'- mi -1 v""-1 fJef
Wrnt vesset. wn, e ,mCn ,t , ,( Uie.f ( am, advice ,
crowded hundreds of other boats of I y of work o (he cam.
fl classes j Ju(1fJf Reod Holloman of San
Pro ject Originated in 18S3 , 0,.r,Pt,fln, of the Soeak-
Ttit project imerrupteu tou.iy ""!crs
naterf in wm. when at tne chAirman
of the Quebec city council a Nethe other
York engineer stittmittcd plans aim
ection day the members having, so ."" nrancnes ot congress and will (,amflll stuff a))1 hfm or . wop s.-l f-rt-sp.-t-t . If Wi'son had shown
arranged their work n, to leave at .as,Ii" control both houses of the leg- ,ake yoir mi.,re j sen(1 45 courage this country would not have -''"
least half their number m the head- ljn u' c , sense stamps on mv paper, if yon do kidded from one crisis , ,
quarter, at all times. ,Gnad.sn,en ,n 1 exas was proportion-1 . wm of nu-aii, and again narrowly e
The function of the new advisory ;ate- y a vote of about lour to one .,..,.. disaster.
the bead-!-e voter.s approved tne state law ' ........ ' . We have
.1111 u 1 ,1 ill inai. 1 ,11 T I woiii .1 mil
aga'i'st intervem ion i,. Me ;i 1.
actually intervening to dictate who
1.1 of
fice therc:and .1. rounrc war against
Mevieo ulo'l mill.. t ;..
shale and a chanc to use them papers : r
that he has all of. an then .if you vill w;l, ev,,rv si,,c f)f UJ wf
hav anything to cum bak with fare. ai tleard him. in his second annual
republican 1 want to reed it.
upstanding' I am yairs trule.
of the Advisory council tlH"K ls t,lc 1-cturn of the progres- J. D. HARBINGEN.
memliers bein,? W !),sivcs to republican ranks. Take the
. 1 1 m i I ill it tli i pmntAvnian r ( lunmon
. tnra m'lniiiorc nnnn ra ni f in 1 in - !- "j ""-"i "-"i"-"
on vessels furnished by the Caua-j .. . ,.,,, wil, tndidate. ! eliil.lrcn to 54 hours a week.
tan government, jicmurn "i m ci . . ic ,ri, ...:,v, ,.
Progressive. Vote Republican
Alvin Tihert, manager of the
;ind in brief, to assist , western repumiean campaign liea.l-
(piarters, issued a statel.ent today
discussing the Maine elections.
"It is useless for the democrats to
try to explain away th
rhosen as victory 111 Maine. The
all heard hiin d.-ila
your misrepresentashttn when Guv.
fi-r nnlu ckA UA rn .l,s. ,.,, f
, ' " ' , . , , .should and who should not h.
Irrc u117 prnl'M an1 h u..e tlrstn '
Now i want you to civ him a fare 1
st-
Bureau has been
second
'message, solemnly assure the coun
!try that we bad not been negligent
of national defense.
He was a n.i'llll.er ol the catilto
re-l.uildmg commissi, 1, 1 lS0s)ono
rommissi.itier fr..m New Mevie,, t
me .Miania espositmn. if"".: ass
ant allorne.v-getieral of New Me
1 f-'O.-; is 7 . assistant I'nited States
turney for the curt of ori.ai- I
claims. l,W,.lon: special a'torney
the Pueblo Indians. lWl.pxij; a
ciat.J justice of the New Mevie. ,
preme court, l ''),!-l'XIO : iud -e o
rouit of first instance. Philip,
of a comprehensive statewide plan
for the young men's republican club
organization, the leadership of which
has been accorded to Thomas
Hughes of Albii'inernue. under the
auspices of the National Republican
and the state committees. Mr.
Hughes will be unable to attend the
meeting here tonight, being in charge
of the arrangements at I. as Vegas.
Women Will Organize
A special invitation to attend the
meeting tonight, extended by the re
publican state committee to the,
women of Santa Fe. has disrlosed
the fact that an active program of
organiation of the w-'n1.'!. of Ne.v
Mexico in behaK of equal suffrage.
is to I.c
r.-su't of !
sideral'1.' . "-re -r.nnde'icf nnd
'lal-ien at once. As r,
'ous inquiries and cn-
mves-
fir-t
' t-e
For more than a vear after the
Murray, of Silver City. President of!vo, ,or ri-edcrick v. Hale for the CONTEMPT FINES IN world-war began. Wilson did n.,t
the Silver City National Hank and , United States senatorship. The dem- RATON CASE AFFIRMED . raise .1 finger to put us in a om
of the Dentins National Bank. R. H.iocra,f f,':,v expected that the pro- BY APPELLATE COURT. dition of d.-fet.e Onlv the prover-
Case. of Deming, Nathan Jaffaj of i grcssives would cut M'. Hale, and The appeal from Judge Pope's de- l.i.-il good luck of America has fc.-,,,
Roswell. A. D. Cri'e. the well- ,l,at Johnson, their candidate, would cision in the city of Raton contenq t us from paying the bitterest price
known Roswell stock grower and hc elected. The returns show that proceedings to the circuit court of for bis unforgivable neglect.
.1:
P Richards, of about f5 per cent of the progressives appeals in Den VCT was settled !V a Wt I'nic Iic:in1 tiim ri.ti.-ulc t
t 1 .1 t7 r r f r....., 'ni Maine voted for Hale and th.it a r1prUiVn 1.
fsaro miles to the northeast of Salon-1
H. Heavy fighting rontinues
Tlie Srrtiiin troops also r ' '"to
Hie game and attacked the -
tans on heir rigiht wing, capt- -:-u'
two villages and forcing the
trarians to retire near Fiorina'
estimates
Allies Are Calning
The allies have begun an offensive
on both tbe'r wimrs in the Balkans.
The fighting is fast and ftiri'us.
The British crossed the Struma
- .j . t.
rmr i""ir'."" "'"i "c- u.c lCarIs1)a(I E c Crampton of Raton, nl ---aine voted lor naie and that a decision handed down Saturday up- idea of a greater navv. then declare
Bulgarian left wing, about forty-;. ., . R 11 r Hatn.:mueh larger percentage voted for the ho'ding the decision of fudge Pope's for incomno able the' er,.:,t.st
mond, president of the First Nation-ircst of the repnlican ticket." court. - in the world, and then go back r.
'al Batik of Clayton, Judge F. R.- Prohibitionist Claim. Credit . The effect of this final decision that.
WrVit of Santa Fe, state senator' n- --eigh Colvin, executive secre- will be to enforce the payment of a We have al! hear, him declare
1 1 . jfolt of I.as Crttces. Hon. John (ar' )f ,,,c prohibitionist national fine of $100 each by the city's at- for exempting, our coast-wise trade
: C.ark of I.as Vegas. Kepublican ( committee, said : torneys and $.',0 each by the may..r. from tolls in the Panama canal: and
xt,,:,i .,m.;,,.,T, ri.rrlnc A "Carl Millikcn's election as gov- citv encineer and members of the h
of 1 Ve-as P.las Snnrhez ernor may ne attrihmed largely to city council for a v lat.on of the and the Fnglish that
fighting stdl continues. , ,, a p p p,.tif.t. :the strong prohibition sentiment in court's restraining order in proceed- mean it
jn inc rsoiiiHtr inn
1 net
lev
Bul-
front in
France there has been heavy fight-
1 ing, the Germans launching se'en
On the eastern and southeast and
Louis Ilfeld of Las Vegas.
I n.iArmiA fst Pnwlpr of s!.lvr filv
ftmelr against the newly cantured v of Mora, state senator
llica pns.ouns. Dcroti aniniia ii.r
loss of German trenches between
Ginctiy and Combles hnt declares the
Ginrhy struggle is still in progress.
South of the Somme the Germans
riaim the recapture of a few houses
la the viltage of Berny' Paris reports
Ae repulse of five German attacks
hanker and stockman of A!buquer-!Mai."c- He made his campaign on . ine with the construction of the new ; We have sP,.n him elected
que. Judge M. E. Hickey of A!bti-;an ,ssl,e ol s-r,ct prohitnton law en- city water works system !a-t vc -,r :r1atfortn which pledged io
Islands. !'P.p),i
le-ritoria' siqir, n
and iu 101?
era! judge of the
S'l-.ec. fi.llouln,. V,
nvsrii t,. statehood
lie vas an C-d K.ll.nv
je.i an F'l,-.
1 he bi'in'iarv jiail l,t , re
ed by the New Mcie,. ft
I 'on aie a f.,l,,wi: led.
v,. Vl ju.i",s m r V.
P. R. Wrieht. T' dge Fn -k W. p,r
ker. ivdge R. II. Manna. T'oP;,- C I
Roberts. Judge F. I M.hoft, Ie- ,
Iferberi I". p-; -.-.Id fudge F. 1.
M.db r. Je.e 1) J I.eabv. J ,!..
J. T. McCIuie. Judge Cranvi'-,.
Kirbardsoii. j,;dee T. II T.i.-b. I ,,' .
he did not Co, in Wllrt;.
I I . henrh ... tli,. state will be u p
;i,!loi bv th feo-oo'ne' i-f'
fftr-.'-e workers of Tal
determined to seed to
P. T.ssie K-,--ell. of
. ni i I h ... ',. st know"
eates in the west. Dr.
f r.Tnl'ienf fir, -re in the
ie aeti itjes of T.os .,
ge'es. has hern ass,,red that she wi'l
have the active support of the re
pi blicin state organi7ation in her
work, si, re it v. i'l be forwardinp- j
republiea'1 noir . and favoring the
republic at' r.in-o
1 1 gat ion I e
if'.rni.i h:r.e
New M .-.
Cdendalf . ( V
-nff-age ,idv
.lull find
Dr. T7uss..-1 ,vi;i
a Ma so,,, pmhably on S-nd-v
ments have heeu ma.'
ripo.o'it- ence on fondny at
.'.ssoeia- meet p-,, uine"t New
rea.-b -:-.,
and
a-ita t-
a-range-
for a coufer
lo'rh she will
Mexico advo-
I
1-. '
rales
Fe
N-w
Ins :
on
vom.in suffrage from Santa
d :.'! nirts of the stale. The
Mes'ir, saffrarre organisation)
s,,-ed Dr. Russell of their
hearty :,'!! iv,:il of her plans and will
work cjoseh v it', her.
f'if'zee.s generi'lv are invited t
aMeed f'-e meeting, tonight, regard
' :..U;.-; faith. Fvo-vetio wil'
lf mad.- w, h'.i'i'.e The '!:ee,iu ; be
gins or. tlv at
a band conctrt.
S o'c'ock. following
The state tax commission has ad
journed after a ten-day session. It
is said that practically every county
tax roll has been increased, the com
mission relying n secret confiden
tial reports for their information for
that pnrpos.
a single "-I ,! the practicing lawyers will !
jforcement.'' while waiting for a final decision on term as president, and then become ir, rc-t nted by many nu gibei s ...
U.JI...I.UU1I sun u. en penning nc-ia canuinate tor another term. " ' :av- n.ir association,
fore the federal court Two mem-i We have all heard him declare f,,r I n committer mnnmi.,! K.. r
GANIZE CLUBS AND LEAGUES ( hers of the city council who were ah-! the conservation of our natural re- Hc.tts to look after all ncees,..ry ar-
!s'n- at the time the action in con-jsotirces : and have seen him neglect '. r;,'i::t i.iet-ts for prr.p-r represenr..-
Santa Fe. N. M., Sept. lS.-Thomas, tempt was taken bv the municipal that policy, and refuse his help to:,:ui .-t the funeral, i- composed t
Hughes of Albuquerque, one of the body were exempted from the fine.jdefeat the Shields water power bill, ll r. Poors and R H. Crews of V-
. ,c jmmKr, Krpni-iine attorneys upon" w nom tne tine the most dangerous attack on c.n- K qi-e.-qt-e and A. R. Renehan
leaners or new Mexico, nas.of S100 was imnosed were Citv At-Iservation I'r.tlir,,'. ff.. ... v,n,a i.-. xt,.
Duck Season Coming
HUr.HF.5 AND CRAIR rR.
i.ame Wanton mutual! t.. ne l,ac
announces that the duck season will
begin 15 days later this year, in ac
cordance with regulations of the fed
eral government Tn other words. It
ii, will be unlawful to shoot ducks be-
ioi siuu was imposed were ity At- servation since Kalltno-er's effort t., anta 1. TJi vi.. ..
beer, designated by the Republican torney Bickley and Fry Pershing turn Alaska over to the Guggen-'-he bar r.,socia,ion in each judicial end IS days later, or on February i
National committee a, the off.cialjof Denver. jheim,. jdl.,c. w- bc ked ((J coperaV flad of January 15
lican
