PAGES 1 TO 8
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO, MICHIGAN. SEPT. IS, 1916.
NO. 25
Paving Befun.
The Michigan Railway Co. began
paving between its tracks on South
Washington street. Tuesday, after a
delay of months for rails. The city's
part of the work will be taken np later.
Galilean Class.
The monthly meeting of the Galilean
class of the First M. E. church was
held Monday, a summary of the year's
work being given by W. H. .Launstein.
Officers were elected as follows:
President R. G. Topping.
Vice President Jacob Spless.
Sebretary W. H. Launstein.
Treasurer Sylvester May.
WTtcox Wins Second Place.
Bob Wilcox of this city, won second
money in the Ford motor car races at
Detroit,- Sunday, winning in the pre
liminary after a bard fight and in the
finals after losing much ground on ac
count of eoglne trouble, and then by
brilliant driving in the turns in the last
laps. He was most closely watched by
the big crowd of 30,000 and his ylctory
cheered. .
Sermons on Liquor Question.
Following are the dates and subjects
of evening sermons by Rev. H. A.
Waite at the First Baptist Church:
September 17. "The Saloon and
Morality."
October 1. "The Saloon and La
bor."
October 8 "The Saloon and Law'
October 22 "The Saloon and Pol
itics."
October 29. "The Saloon and
Home."
The last lecture will be a Christ
mas theme.
V First M. E. L. A. S. Officers.
Tho annual business meeting and
election of officers of the L. A. S. of
the First M. E. church was held at tho
home of Mrs. W. A. Upham, on Tues
day afternoon. The following officers
were elected for the ensuing year:
President Mrs. A. Letts.
1st Vive Pres. Mrs. D. M. Chris
tian. v
v ; 2nd Vice Pres. Mrs. C. L. Patcc.
Secretary Mrs. J. C. Ilolden.
.Treasurer Mrs. Frank, Weidman.
Will Contest Claim.
Charles VanWormer of Durand, ad
ministrator of the estate of his mother,
the late Agnes VanWormer of Durand,
das appealed from the decision of the
commissioner! on claims in allowing
Fred Crumbly $2,179. The Crumbly
claim is for labor extending over a
period of seven or eight years.
. The estate is valued at $7,000. Heirs
say they believe that the claim is un
just as well as illegal. Attorneys Ter
ry & Parsons of Durand, and J. H.
Collins of Corunna, are attorneys for
the administrator.
Committees Organize.
The candidates on the republican
county ticket met Friday afternoon and
re-elected J. H. Collins of Cornnna
chairman, A. L Nichols secretary and
G. L. Taylor treasurer, and decided to
hold meetings throughout the county
with the republican platform and the
national and state candidates in yiew
rather than solely the election of coun
ty . candidates. The campaign will
start Oct. 10.
The democrhts organized by electing
W. A. Seegmiller chairman and A. L.
Densmore secretary to succeed L. B.
Allison and Charles Carland.
Class Officers.
The classes of the Owosso high
school have become organized and
elected the following ' officcrs this
week.
Senior Officers President, Marlowe
Stevens; vice president, Miss Marie
Ileyer; secretary, Cecil Murphy;
treasurer, Arthur Pierpont.
Junior Officers President, Welling
ton Ward; vice president, Miss Mona
Oristock; secretary, Gertrude Molle
ma; treasurer, George Gctman.
Sophomore Officers Prcsident,Leon
Willoughby;vicc president, Miss Helen
Hall; secretary, Miss Mary Maude
Thompson; treasurer, Richard Hart.
Freshmen Officers President, Jas.
Reed; vice president, Miss Gaylo
Friegel; secretary, Miss Eva Bilhi
mer; treasurer, Theron Burr.
Engineer Tbwnsend of the state high
way department, inspected and ac
cepted several miles of state reward
road in this county Wednesday.
' Judge Miner has granted a perma
nent injunction preventing Thomas
Paxlnos from engaging in the shoe
shining business in Owosso for five
years. He sold out to Chillko &
Brown with that understanding and
thQ bean business again.
Machine Company Prospers.
The Standard Machine Co. which
moved to Owosso three months' ago
from Bav Citv. absorbing the Castree &
Co. plant, is prospering and is using j
all of the building at 125-127 Comstock
street and a part of the Sutter by feed
barn property adjoining on the east in
manufacturing saw mill machinery and
cable conveyors. A brick addition 66x
120 feet, two stories, costing $15,000
is contemplated.
The owners and officers of the com
pany are: J. C. Fetter, president; J.
W. Radford, vice president, and . W.
Brown, secretary and treasurer.
Holiness Seminary Statement.
Tho financial statement for the
year of the Bible Holiness Seminary,
located in Owosso, has been issued
by C..G. Taylor, business manager
for the organization, with headquar
ters in Hastings. The statement for
the past fiscal year is as follows:
Assets
Value of property $12,000.00
Improvements . . . 350.00
N'ew furniture 180.00
Notes 1,000.00
Pledges 500.00
Total U4.030.00
Liabilities
Notes outstanding $4,070.00
Accounts outstanding .... 30.00
Interest on notes. 7.08
Total
Present worth.
... .$4,077.08
. . . .$9,952.92
9: ft
Edmund R. Vincent,
Republican Candidate for Register of
Deeds of Shiawassee County.
Demooratic County Convention.
The Shiawassee county democratic
convention was held in the Owosso
armory, Tuesday, with W. A. Seeg
miller as chairman, and A. L. Dens
more secretary. Resolutions endorsing
the Wilson administration and W. A.
Seegmiller for congress, were adopted.
Dr. R. C. Fair was elected treasurer
of tie county committee, W. A. Seeg
miller having been previously elected
chairman and A. L. Densmore secre
tary. Delegates to the state convention
were chosen as follows:
W. A. Seegmiller, chairman of dele
gation; A. L. Densmore, Charles Frain
L G. Heyer, W. T. Goodwill, C. D.
Smith, James Kinsler, D. D. Curtis,
Frank Pettibone, C J. McNally, J. N.
Axford, John Brandel, Frank 8 help,
James Lynch, Frank Baese, Charles
Elber, Bert Bonsor, Orla Prouty, Floyd
Owen.
Look Out for County's Interest.
Corunna, September 11. Road
Commissioner Roy Bailey hopes to
tuke a good sized delegation with
him to Lansing September 27 to at
tend tho meeting in that city called
by the state highway department for
roadway commissioners and others
interested in the road building move
ment. At that time the distribution
of $2,186, 7f,5 in federal road money
will bo decided upon.
There has been, considerable talk
in Lansing of giving tho counties
with the bad roads the bulk of the
appropriation money and it is such
an act that Shiawassee county good
road boosters wish to protest against.
They reason that each county should
share alike upon a comparative basis
based upon the county valuations.
Bailey reasons that half of the fed
eral money is raised by taxation in
the state and that therefore the local
property owners should not bear the
burden of improving other parts of
Michigan.
The road commissioner hopes to
take a large number of prominent
men from this vicinity to Lansing
with him and register a "kick"
which will have the desired results.
Corunna Lecture Course.
- The Complete course is as follows:
October 7 Fisher-Shipp Concert
Co.
November 1 Genevieve Smith
Concert Co.
December 19 Henry Clark, lec
ture. January 15 Gretchen Cox Con
cert Co., (will also give school matl
neo In afternoon.)
Chas. II. Plattenberg, lecture.
4-
owosso dailies consolidated. !
The Argas-Press Company Takes
Over Business of Both Newspapers.
On Monday the Owosso Press-Ameri
can discontinue I its publication as a
separate newspaper and hereafter the was held Tuesday afternoon at the
business of the Owosso Daily Argus and .court house In Corunna, with every
the Press-American will be . conducted township and ward represented with
by the Argus-Press Company with G. J practically complete delegations. The
T. Campbell as president, H. K. White delegates were enthusiastic at the pros
vice president, Mrs. J. C. Rezford eeo- pect of a complete republican victory at
retary and treasurer. the November election and the starter
The merger was a natural result of
conditions, Owosso following , many
other cities in the matter. The city is
not large enougn to support two paying
daily papers, but one should be a finan
cial success and the- paper be worthy of
the patronage It will undoubtedly re
ceive. .
Under the new management the
paper will be Independent politically
succeeding the Press-American which
was democratic and the Argus which
was independent republican.
The Times joins with everyone in
congratulations and best wishes for the
new company.
Death of Thomas M. Jackson.
Thomas M. Jackson, 32 years old, eon
in law of Congressman J. W. Fordney,
died at the Fordney cottage at White
Lake early Tuesday morning, after a
brief illness.
Mr. Jackson, his wife and daughter
and other members of Mr. Fordney's
family drove from Saginaw to White
Lake last week Wednesday, to remain
for two or three weeks on account of
Mr. Jackson's health which has cot
been good for some time. A dispatch
from there said he was taken ill Sunday
night. Drs. Stewart, Brnce and Con
nery going to Saginaw on a special train
to attend him, but could not save his
life.
Mr. Jackson was a fine young man, a
successful manufacturer and one of the
most popular young men In Saginaw.
He leaves a wife, formerly Miss Ag
nes Fordney, to whom he was married
in January, 1915, and a young daughter.
Real Machinery for Manual Training
Department.
4 Machinery for mill workyalned at
$ 1,000,' has been installed in what was
the old lumber room of the manual
training department of the high school.
The machinery consists of a band saw,
resawer, jointer, planer, rio and cross
cut saw, together with the necessary
tables.
Tne new work is for young men who
do not expect to follow any profession,
but who rather will be equipped to
earn a living at trades on leaving high
school. The young men will be trained
so that they may receive higher wages
at a trade on leaving school than they
otherwise would without any previous
training.
Mr. Carr, manual training teacher,
believes that the machines will in a
short time pay for themselves. Rough,
lumoer wnicn naa previously oeeu
dressed at the mills will be dressed by
the students.
The first chapel of the school year was
held in the assembly room Monday
morning. The program consisted of
a violin duet by Marvel Hicks andJ
Cecil Rhodes; address, " Why I Go to
School," by Mr. Voelker; piano solo.
Clara Kaltrider. Chapel exercises will
be held every Monday.
N. R. Walsh, G. F. Friegel and E.
II. Stanard leave today for an auto-
mobile trip to Chicago. public office. Wc believe in Iiepubli-
The funeral of Stewart Harper of De- oan principles; and we are not only
troit, was held in Corunna, Tuesday, opposed to the prineiles of Democracy
Rev. W. R. Blachford of Christ Epis- as enunciated in the Democratic plat
copal church of Owosso. officiating. t' but wc Join with tI,c doctorate
The pall bearers were members of the of the land in the prevailing feeling
Stone Cutter' Union, which ha3 at- impatience and annoyance at the
tended to Mr. Harper during a long high-handed manner in which the
illnehs. jpresent administration has uniformly
Two marria2e licenses were issued by 1 ftml "nblushingly repudiated its prc
the county clerk Tuesday. One was e,cctlon promises,
given to Andrew Joyolos aged 29, and We decry the manner in which the
Mera Kusner aged 30, both of Owosee; civil-service laws liaveNbeen depraved
and both natives of Hungaria. The and violated for "deserving Demo
groom had been married once before.. , orats." The Democratic platform dc
Orvill B. Lung of Owosso, who gave clares that "the civil service laws
his age as 21, and Katherin Rockwell should be honestly and rightly cn
of Beulan, who gave her age as IS, forced to the end that merit and abil
were given the second license. j ity shall be the standard of appoint-
Mrs G. L. Taylor, Mr. C. 8. Allison mcnt and promotion." Wc call at
and Mrs. Harry Dudley delightfully tention to the removal of deputy mar
enUrtained sixty ladies at a card party .shals and deputy revenue collectors
at the Dudley apartment, Wednesday from the classified service, the con
aflernoon. A three course luncheon tinned removal of able and experi
was eeryed. Favors in the form of cnoed diplomats for hungry, Demo
imall hair pins tied with variagated cratic politicians and the famous Bur
bows of baby ribbon were given win- leson raids upon the post offices. .
ners after each hand. The rooms were The Democratic platform promises a
beautifully decorated with wisteri. reduction in taxation and insists upon
green vines, golden rod and golden glow a reduction in the number of useless
with beautiful colored paper butterflies offices. The Democratic congress just
and other designs cleverly arranged closed has been the most extravagant
Th ladles will entertain again this by far of any in the history of the
kfternooo. (ToDttnuod on pace four.)
REPUBLICAN CONVENTION
Large Attendance and Much Enthusi
asm at Gathering Strong
Resolutions.
The republican county convention
in Maine on Monday made it seem most
certain.
i.
J. H. Collins, chairman of the county
committee, called the convention to
order and gave a short talk in praise
of the nominee for ' president and the
manner of his selection at Chicago,
stating that without organization, with
out workers, headquarters, or even an
Jaeaurance that he would accept the
nomination, the convention following
an almost jinanimous sentiment of the
mass of people of the country bad
chosen Mr. Hughes, and his march to
yictory as shown by his wonderful re
ception in all parts of the country was
arousing the old time republican spirit
which meant complete victory. He
asked S. Q . Pulver to preside, and in
accepting Mr. Pulver made a rousing
speech telling of a reunited grand old
party and of the complete failure of the
present administration to conduct the
business of the country on a high, cour
ageous, economical and patriotic basis.
He spoke of the blunderings of the
Mexican policy, the reversals in stands
on public questions, the breaking of
their party pledges, the corruption of
the civil service and the cowardly pas
sage of an unconstitutional law in the
hope of securing votes.
A. W. Burnett was made temporary
secretary, C. E. Godfrey, A. B. Free
man and Geo. W. Cook committee on
permanent organization and ordsr of
bniiness, A. H. Dumond, Herbert Aus
tin and Leslie Clark committee on cre
dentials, and G. F. Friegel, Marvin
Ransom and H. W. Parker committee
on resolutions.
After a recess the following delegates
were elected to the state convention:
E. O. Dewey, chairman; J. H. Collins,
A: L.- Nichols. G.-F. Friegel, S. &
Miner, Frank H. Rush. A. W. Burnett,
Joe Sproule, A. B Freeman, H. P.
Halstead, W. O. Watson, R. W. Bailey,
W. H. flline, Walter Bush, W. J.
Brooklns, John Telfer, N. R Walsh,
W. A. Upham, Alonzo Griffin and S. C.
Patchell.
The new county committee will con
sist of N. Blake, W. H. Cline, F. S.
Ruggles, Frank Gilna, A. E. Rich
ards, Howard Slocum, J. J. Peacock, C.
I a. iroui, uteo. w. Glutei, w.u. aioore,
E. C. Wilson. J. W. Blttell, W. H.
Launstein, Geo. M. Dewey, S. Q Pul
ver, M. F. Growe, M. D. Corey, Julius
Kebler, T. H. Hulstead, F. M. Towner,
Cftas Gassman, H. L. Austin, H. W.
Parker, G. W. Lawcock, A B Free-
maQf w. R Dean, Enoch Patchett, V.
-m T.limn
H. H. Pulver was called upon and In
a humorous but forceful talk touched
0fl the enthusiasm again and closed a
most satisfactory gathering..
The resolutions were as follows:
Your committee on resolutions begs
leave to submit the following report:
. We, representative Republicans of
j Shiawassee County in convention as
Iscmblcd, heartily endorse without
qualification the Republican platform
and its entire list of candidates for
WHAT MICHIGAN
Big Battle For Moral, Political and
Mightiest of Foes Address by Rey. B. G. Maltson.
ah ?he oundtion of " Lee ftate are the moral convictions of her people.
All the superstructure of her laws and liberties, her privileges and her
power, her rights and her duties, her prosperity, her progress and her per
manoncc must be Inulded upon the conscience of the .people or they shall
not endure No less true is it that the state herself becomes a hireling or
a slave and her people cease to be a free people whenever the conscience
ot the people ceases to assert itself or is denied the means or opportunity
to be effective in the correction of any public evil. The commonwealth of
Michigan, however, is a free people in these two respects. Her superstructure
has been builded on the moral convictions of the people and the public con
science has the means by which the people's sense of right can make itself
ellective whenever that superstructure is endangered by a public evil The
means which lie in our hands with which to deal with public evils are public
means, f here must be nothing unfair, secret, hidden or tyrannical about
them. They must not be lawless neither must thev be weak. Thev must not
be compromises and co-partnerships with the evii. Frankly, fearlessly, un
flinchingly the conscience of the people must soon or late avail itself of the
means afforded in the character of its own freedom to come to final grips
with the evil in the attempt to attain the self purification which is the only
guarantee of that people's welfare.
Within the state of Michigan there is a living conscience. Also within
the state of Michigan there is a public evil, deeply entrenched in the habits,
customs and desires of men and legalized by the sufferance of the people
for want of a better means .of control. For twenty-five years and more tho
conscience of the people has grown more insistent against this evil while the
evil itself has become more and more intricately entwined about the commer
cial, political and social interests of the state and has steadily gained in
power. and arrogance and in evil effects upon the people's life.
So now at last here We are face to face with the thrilling crisis in the
history of our state for which a quarter of a century of agitation education
and legislation has prepared us. The day of compromises is passing and tho
day of open warfare is come.
It is well then that we take sober account of the whole length and
breadtli of the great issue between the conscience of the state of Michigan,
and the commercial octopus of the drink traffic.
We do not want any one to be in doubt about our aims and we are will
ing to state them plainly. We want every man and woman who has any share
in this aroused conscience of Michigan to know just what we propose to ac
complish by writing the prohibitory amendment into the constitution.
As I look at this struggle between the public conscience and this public
evil of the drink traffic, we are engaged in a great offensive along four battlo
fronts, each of them presenting a direct challenge to the entire life of tho
state. There is the challenge which involves the moral honor of a free skito
and the moral obligations of tho state to her people. There is the political
battle which involves the freedom and purity of her civic obligations. There
is the economic battle which involves the soundness, justice and permanence
of her material and industrial life, and there is tho national battle which
involves her share in the final solution of this drink traffic problem in all
its national bearings.
I. LOOK FIRST AT THE MORAL BATTLE. WHAT IS IT HERE
THAT WE ARE FIGHTING FOR?
1. We propose to put an end to the legalization of an immoral traffic
which has become "a public evil vast enough to justify such an extreme
measure." Not every voter might be won to' this brave stand if there were
not other counts to, the indictment. The thing is wrong. That, was enough
for the brave little advance guard of prohibitionists a. generation ago. But
today a mighty host is gaining ground against the enemy. The right to
sell liquor is denied by an increasing volume of determined voices. The
state must end the unholy partnership between a great freo commonwealth
and this chief waster of her substance. Thus speaks the conscience of Mich
igan: "The saloon is a moral wrong against the state.' Let it be branded
as an outlaw."
2. Michigan is fighting to remove temptation from her youth. Has she
not a right and a duty to do this? There are thousands of young men and
women in Kansas who have never seen a saloon. We want to protect our
youth; also from the very sight of this degrading and debauching business.
3. Michigan is fighting to help every tempted man or woman to keep
sober and to break the chains of an evil habit. It is the duty of the state
to do this. Many of the patrons of the saloon would rejoice to bo de
livered and would win the victory if only the strong arm of the state were
stretched out to save them. In the name of the drunkards of Michigan,
drink enslaved men and women, let a cry go up that will rouse to fighting
pitch the conscience of the citizenship of the state, pledging the help ot
sober voters.
II. WHAT IS MICHIGAN FIGHTING FOR ON THE POLITICAL
BATTLE FRONT?
1. Michigan is fighting to put an end to the self-deception and selfish
ness which have made her willing to receive revenue that is literally the
price of blood in lieu of honest taxes. The merciless facts of the trained
investigator admit of no evasion. The liquor business is not a revenue pro
ducer, it is a revenue destroyer. Wayne County and Detroit pay out for
expenses directly traceable to the saloon twice as much as that county re
ceives from all her fifteen hundred saloons.
2. Michigan is fighting to free her citizenship from the curse of the
political domination of the whiskey ring in our wet cities and from the un
scrupulous manipulation of the chief instruments of the people's sovereign
will, the ballot box and the legislative hall. These she must recover or ceaso
to call herself free. The very sovereignty of the state is at stake and ha?
been openly defied in instance after instance in rum-ruled Detroit and other
cities.
Michigan is fighting to oxposo the fake "Home Rule"' appeal of
the liquor men with which the wet forces of Ohio so cunningly beclouded the
issue two years ago. "Let the township or the municipality decide this
question" they cry. A more cunning piece of anarchy in the guise of self
government could hardly be devised. This is a direct blow at the sovereignty
of the state whose right anjl duty it is to protect her citizens by adequate
legislation righteously enforced. The function, and duty of the state is to
protect society in all the units of her civil organization from the township,
precinct and ward to city ami county. " The evils of the liquor business inter
lock and ramify 'into 'ipvery nook and corner of the state. Nothing less than
the whole state can deal adequately with them. It is the most outrageous
pretense to disguise this specious appeal to the provincialism and local inde
pendence of small communities and to the overweening and unpatriotic prido
of lawless cities like Detroit by asking them to vote for the so-called home
rule or smaller unit amendment. When did the lessef unit withinMhe state
acquire the right to set up a little principality wherein it could jeopardize
the welfare of the whole state f Heal home rule is state rule and nation
rule. That is the only really patriotic and legal rule. This cunning device
of the wets is nnarchy in disguise.
IIL WHAT IS MICHIGAN FIGHTING FOR ON THE ECONOMIC
. BATTLE FRONT?
1. Michigan is fighting to build up a sound prosperity by putting a stop
to the waste of millions of dollars in food stuffs, capital and labor engaged in
the liquor trade and returning the same to legitimate and beneficent channels
of industry. Unquestionably the removal of the saloon will also greatly
enhance industry and prosperity by adding vastly to the earning power of
all grades of workers and enabling them to redistribute these larger earnings
in all the legitimate channels of trade.
The state of Washington put into force her prohibitory amendment last
January, and today Seattle is the lnrvest city in the United States under
prohibitory rule. The economic results have, been as marvelous as tho moral
results. The number of arrests fell 1'rom 2,(i00 a month to 400 in the month
of January and GO of these were hold overs from the former month under tho
wet regime. Dank deposits increased 15 in three weeks. Grocery and dry
goods stores reported unprecedented business. It is interesting to note that
the increase in dry goods was chiefly in wearing apparel for women and chil-
( Continued on page eight.)
IS FIGHTING FOR.
Economical Betterment Against the
