HERO PRIESTS OF THE WAR.
First of a series of vivid stories of self,
sacrifice and devotion. By Dr. Peter
Ouilday of the Catholic Univer-
slty of America.
IN NEXT SUNDAY'S SUN.
he
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Snow or rain to-day; fair and colder
to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, as; lowest.
Detailed weather, mall nl marine reports nn page 1!
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 138.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, JANUARY 16, 1916. Copyright, 1916, fc the Run Print inp ami Pnblhhing AttocMion.
60 PAGES. PRICE FIVE CENTS.
- - - -
BLUNDER PUT
18 MINERS IN
ROOT WARNS OF
GRAVE DANGERS
FACING NATION
MYSTERIOUS EXPLOSION ON THE E-2 IN NAVY YARD
WRECKS BOA Tt KILLS FOUR MEN AND INJURES TEN
AS EDISON'S BATTERIES ARE BEING DISCHARGED
Jstm.
BLOCKADE OF
GERMANYTOBE
MADE FORMAL
Britain Soon to Ismic, Dec
laration Supplimliim
Orders in Council.
TRAP, IS FEAR
Lansing Hcnra Subordinate
Got Safe Conduct Assur-
nnccs for Americans, i
CONSUL EDWARDS IS
ASKED TO EXPLAIN
Special Train Brings 150
More U. S. Citizens Out
of Bandit Territory.
The seventeen Americans who were
lolled by Mexican bandits, may have
conn Into the Infested territory with
rsttrancrs of safe conduct from
the Cnrranra Government obtained
.through mistaken zeal on the part St
a United States official.
The Htate Department fears that a (
subordinate may have obtained these .
assurances without consulting Secre- 1 ert C. Smith, k. t .. of Montreal, Su-
..... t.n.in . preme Court Justice Almct F. Jenks and
tar Rinsing-. Henrj. u stlmsoni
Consul Kdwards has been naked to j responding to these tributes Sfna
explaln statements attributed to lilm tor Hoot delivered nn address described
i.. . ai 1 bv most of the persons who hentd It as
that assurances were Riven at the dl- . . torceti of his entire
rectlon of the State Department.
Ambassador Deslgnnto Arredondo
Ini-ists that CScn. Obregon did not In
vite the mine men to return. Repara
tion hinges on this point.
Another tralnload of Americans la
on the way to the border from Chi
li lahua. Kcar la held for the safety
of 500 Mormons In Villa's territory.
lieprefentntlve Cox of Indluna In a
rriolutlun charges that. Curranza Is
head of the slsil monopoly In Yucatan.: In under the shadow of great rcspoust-
hllltles and great danger to Its Instltu-
ALL 1 LLtUKAMb 1U have grown so great that we cannot
CONSULS EXAMINED i llxe um" 'n"fc' "
,er Hurst tons l.nnmlnK.
State Department Krurs Homebody' ..Vvw. lluc,ton!l Uxtm up In the liori
Kxcrrilrri Ills AulborlO. zon which must be met. questions upon
Washinoton. Jan. 15. Kear on the
putt of the Btato Department officials
that subordinate!) of the. Department
p.mv h.ie obtained assurances of safe
cendut for the Americans
In Mexico last Monday without first con-
.tiling Sccretur Lansing caused i hur-1
i,ed examination this afternoon of all
,e,e.r-,w and lee,s of Instruction sent
.. Aiuetliau Consuls In Mexico III recent
ceks.
T.i- n.iilr was undertaken a- the
. - .... . ..m.j
rriut f lepe.ited statements attributed
to consul Thiim.is D. i: J wards at Juarez '
in press despatches from 111 Paso that
Lie Litter had obtained these assuiances
tt too direction of the State Department. !
t....i.i o .....
, itWIVH . . .win omcini j ..'.-
t.ng in giving their reasons for not tak
ing summary ait Ion to avenge the deaths
vt i tit nrventern Americans have stated
f.eral times that the Americans were
.tiiie, to ke.p out of the territory
'iVn ihe wer killed both by the State
iJtpartmeut and Carranza authorities.
... . . ,
l.iliwinU nkrft In Uiplnln.
A ' the inquiry this .ifteriuion did not
li'i .itciirdliig to high olticials of the
I'ciMrtmciit. tli.it any Instructions had
icen sent to IMwards or any other Con-
'j "j obtain afsurancea of protection
f('i inr! ,irj. retuinlng to Mexlcu, Sec-
li'iry Liiisiiig has wired Consul Kd-
w.irilt .iskliaj an explanation of his
Uteir.ente, particularly In nganl to his
iwlrli ailon that Januar a was the
iMte cm which he received Instructions
from U.iblilngtoii to get bafe conducts
r -'i nun who were killed.
The only telegram sent to Consul Ed-
aii' on that dite was one Instructing
I. in to urge upon the Carranza authorl-
-i ne protection oi American prop-1
lies In Chihuahua, and officials con-1
Km! tiiiu by no procem of reasoning '
ioul'1 IMnnrds have Interpreted this an I
. ic'iufsr iur sale coiuiucis lor ins
Amertfiiri mliicm, It Is thought possible,
ro'i(.,.r mat the Consul may have a-ted
i lui own responsibility In obtaining
thfin
'e . if other hand olllclals are con
v til alter exanilnatlon of various re
poi's from III I'aso uiid Juarez that
e.!ur in -es of s-afcty were given the
n jnli-rfil men, Inasmuch .ts it Is said
tint' ,hi Olnegon
Is known previously . through sacrltk-e and the blood of mar
he olllcers and em- 1 tyrs and the devotion of mankind. And
tn n.. f. I..AII
rnv.,.. nr t.AKin.. i..Ana um.ii.
.iiiiany with plant's at Chihuahua '
.n- other parts of Chihuahua 1
fta-e. io reniin . ihflr .irnnenles. rit-
Cams mat tin.) would not be molested. !
I Arredondo. Carranza's Ainba-
lnr designate here, in conference with
rei.ir Lansing, has Insisted that no
'H 'citations were ever Issued and
'1 11' '11,
regon and the other authorities
""I 'hemselves to Issuing permits
1 '" ans. when requested, for use
'111,1 the Carranza lines,
V . gn nltlcial of the Department did
fi- .en.,,1,. to say to-night that If the
a au.horlUes imd voluntarily.
c if ..iir..i u .,f :.feiv in the mnr. i
'iim" Americans their responslhlllty for
'h '.1 e of there men would be even
r.., f. i,an If the safe conducts had
I" s?.cu on request,
I'oliil for Itepnrollon.
' " in slated that this Is an Im
P"1'" poliii to be determined In de
'l e -a. what steps the United States
fi'jvii' 1, ,ti,t would take to demand
'tid'.i r.i, for iho lives of tho Anierl-
V' '11 same time the Administration
Hit. 'as using every Influence to divert
"' P'.i l" iiilinl from any thought of
ar-m-u intervention. The statement Is
' 11 " .1 In that the President Is deter
iinul i;Im. Carranza a "chance" to
"m i v. 1. the murderers and to restore
"nle .thing Hie border.
T e ij N lining raised by the Ad
'" ' atlon that partisan polltlcB Is bo
Mi 1 ins deiiuinsiiallon In the Senate for
" iii". drastic policy. This contention
. being aihanced notwlthslandlng the
' n.d the Democrats themselves are
'a is privately, and tome of them pub-
('onlliitieif on Fifth Papr.
ri i)lli.AI'(i)MTA-('tTIA-Mni)TH.
TH.TIH t'OAMT LINE.
' t- "J Klectrle Lighted Trslns Dally via
P'o -l II It. uf Houlh. Olltct, 1111 Bwy.
-.Pi
Urges Members of State
Bar Association to
Teacli Patriotism.
FOH PKKPAREDNESS
TO PHESEHVE HONOK
800 Lawyers and Judges
Hear Him and Pay Trib
ute to Ex-Senator.
Kllhu Hoot was the cuett f honor at
the Hotel Astor lust nlcht of the Stale
Bar Association. To him were accorded
such honor an few men have received
from that body of distinguished lawyers
and Judges. He was praised for his
patriotism, for IiIh high abilities, for his
sincerity and his extraordinary efficiency
by Jacob M. Dickinson of Chicago. Hob-.
career. It ran wim patriotism, u re
viewed, what seemed to Mr. Hoot, the
comfortable disregard of the American
people to the principle of liberty upon
which the republic was founded. It
stated frankly and directly that the
Kre.it duty of all Americans I to renew
their devotion to llbertj. to stir them
selves from their riches and their ease,
mid to be prepared to defend their coun
try from outside aggression or Insidious
foes within. He said :
"Our country, which seems so secure,
so peaceful, so certain about Its pros
pects of prosperity and peace. 18 passing
which have little or no precedent
to guide us ; questions upon the right dc
termination of which the peace and
prosperity of our country will depend.
These questions can be met only bv a
J
t, nicjiared for the performance of Its
duty
"Something has been said about the
J-P "ThartV.fHUn.Sl,.
neo-Halty of concentration upon the work
of the constitutional convention had
passed my mind went back to those
grave and serious dangers that threaten
Jur ,UIllr,. Ho completely that when the
constitution was defeated It was a
scarcely noted Incident In my life.
r ." 'l10 fi"V,re
"" ' responslblllt of the
bar?
.,.,l ,.,, !,. il,,H
upon n foundation of .principle. They
must renew their loyalty to Ideals, and
I the basic principle Is the principle of
I American law. It Is the principle of
I Individual liberty which baa grown out
of the life of the Anglo-Saxon race
n.a l.tiu l.eett uMKlnir Ntronir during
'all the 700 years since the Magna
ciiirla
"That was the formative principle
that made America, the United States
and Canada, preserving liberty and do-
lug Justice. That, the power of the
principle of Individual liberty. Is t lie
greatest formative iower in tlie hls-
tory of the world. Over agalnt It
stand the principle of the State.
L'pon the one hand la the principle
that all men are created with luallen-
able rights which governments are ere-
ated to preserve. On the other hand
Is the principle that States are created
w ith supreme rights, which all Indl-
vldual" are bound to observe.
, "And that Is the fundamental que-
tion which is iichik iuukiu um un
battlefields of Kurope.
..r rrpnreilness
Here In this country we have en
Joyed, liberty and order so long that we
have forgotten how they came. Our
people assume that they came as the
tip itinies. They have assumed that
they will of their nature and by their
own force continue inrever numim ui
fort Ah. no! Liberty has always been
luirn .if strucKle. It has not come save
it ltt not to be preserved except by Jeal-i
ous watchfulness and stern detcrmlna- Apat a'ml wrecl(age the force of the
tlon always to be free, M , , t
"Tliat eternal vigilance Is the price ofiexpiosun .
liberty Is so much a truism that t has
lost Its meaning, but it Is an eteni.il
truth, and the principles of Ametlcan
liberty to-day stand In need of a renewed
.levoilon on the part of the American
people. We have forgotten that In our
i ast material prosperity. v o naie grtiiMi
so rich, we have lived In peace and
comfort and ease so long. w" "'"'8
forgotten to what we owe those agtee-1
able Incidents of life,
"We must be prepared to defend our
indtvldiiii hertv n l wo ways, iirinum
lu. nreimred to do It first by force ofL
arms against all external I aggression.
Clod knows I love peace, and I lPlse all
iffVnTSTlff1 1-ce
1 '
Co n Mm a '! from First Poor.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SECTIONS, AS FOLLOWS :
flfiST Cenertl New
SECOND Sporting. Kenneli. Automobile
THIRD society, urinu, iviuiic
FOURTH -PietorUI Mrint
FIFTH Lithotravure Supplement. Aft ......
SIXTH Foreign. Semi-New Articles. Booki, Queriei, Chen. Fuhions. Ral
Etitt, School i, Gtrdtni, Poultry, Finncil. Probltms .
ToUl
RtaJtri t ntuiittlm uht it tl nttltt til tf that ittlltm ulll tonja a Jaetr
tn "JU Sun" h ntttfulnt PuUkttltn Dtptttmml tt tnct h Pn
(MM Bttkmn) tni miulnt tttUtnt ulll h prtmptly ftfittrM IJ ptulUt.
Several Survivors So Badly
Hurt They Are Likely
to Die.
COURT OF INQUIRY
TO DETERMINE CAUSE
Navy Officials in Washing
ton Hint at a Deliberate
Use of Explosives.
An explosion wilcti navsl officers so
far are unable to explain wrecked the
Interior of the V. S. submarine E-2
while she was being repaired in Dry
Dock No. 2 In the New York Navy Yard
at 1:15 o'clock yesterday afternoon,
killing one enlisted man and three
yard workmen and Injuring at least
ten others so severely that some of
them are expected to die.
The H-2 was the only submarine In
the navy equipped with Kdlsnn bat
teries, for which the chief merit
claimed Is that they do not plve off
chlorine gas. Also the K-2 had no
gnsolene aboard, as her motive power
Is generated by a Diesel oil burning
engine. There was no explosive pow
der aboard.
If fsn accumulation of liyilrogen
caused the explosion, which wan the
only explanation offered last night. It
was gas which had accumulateil be
tween the top of the steel battery Jar,
and the electrpllto..
The vessel and other submarine" of
the type which arc equipped with
these new batteries, the invention of
Thomas A. Edison. Imve 230 of these
batteries, each In a stee". Jar. ntid each
battery welshing about 600 pounds.
The hydrogen gas accumulates ti top.
above a qimptlty of wutcr, usually
about twenty gallon, which Is Kept
there.
Were Drnnlnsr Off Cms.
The men at work upon these lul
terles wslerdnv were engaged in
drawing off the gas and replenish ig
the water supplies.
It Is thought probable that some
workman touched n wrench or a piece
of Iron to the tf rmlnnls of one of the
batteries, thus making an arc. and that f
this produced the spuiK wmcn enn.-en
fh.. r.ldoslon.
These batteries aie reached by un
screwing some of the plates In the
deck. Under this theory the explosion
of the 230 batt.rles would not be.
simultaneous, but descriptions of yes-
terday's explosions agree that It was
"long, low and dull." If one battery
exploded, forcing In the sides of other
batteries near by and causing them ti'
explode, which In turn would explode,
other batteries, such a sound might r
result, particularly n the sides of th"
submarine would muffle the distinct
ness of the separate ensuing reports
and merge them all Into one "long,
low and dull" explosion."
Word from Washington Inst night
said that certain Navy Department of
ficluls entertained suspicion that the
explosion was one deliberately caused
by outside agencies.
"There was not at least there
should not have been anything
aboard the K-2." was the way Hear
Admiral Nathaniel It. Usher, com
mandant of tho navy yard, put It In
reply to questions, "which could ex
plode." ,
The submarine had been In dry dock
since December 30 last. Consequently j
she was as dry outside and Inside as u ,
smoked herring, .'ca water, which
when an undersea boat Is submerged
might help In the formation of gases
in submarines equipped with lead bat- ,
terlcs which the E-2 was not could j
not enter Into the nccldent. In times!
of neace the torpedoes are not fitted
nut with "war heads" of explosives.
...M..j t n t.trnp.ln hail causetl the
that iintim ess iii .
would have ,
J hcen ripped apart, whereas thero are
. no markH uf the explosion to be seen
. 0t8,,. plates any place,
.. ...
i.nmi..-....-.
T)e rolTimamier of the K-2, Lieut.
(.miriPH M. Cooke, Jr.. nnil about
1 'in .
i thirty members or tne crew ami jarii
workmen were aboard the submarine
when tue explosion iinpprnrii. 111-
- .toun it was Saturday nfternnnn some
()f tnc K.n crew twenty-five men
f f tnp , workmi, wfr(,
j not on duty, otherwise the ,1st of dead
and Injured might have been greater.
' Lieut. Cooke w-(h merely Jolted about
PgM
.16
.60
- . - ; : ; " . .. . v f
,tr - i V , V . , s"r i-nk' ' - . v
a bit niul scratched so slightly that
he was not even listed amoui; the
Injured.
At ili tlnv of the explosion mem
bers of the crew and the workmen were
Installing a rmre effective ventilating
system around (lit. IMlson batteries, 'rre
only theory as to Hie eausv of the ex
plosion advanced wan that although the
balletic are said to give off no appre
ciably quantity .of. chlorine rgjsv-jt Is
possible that a sufficient nWnu'it' or
hydrogen had been liberated which, when
a tcutllatiug duct tunning ftom the
battery was opened, m'xe.1 with the sur
toiindliig a!r and exploded
Whateier the fxplislVf m i r, it":i
sliiuig eimugli to rip loose the eampnii
lonway, k perpendicular stel ladder
lending from the om 'i hat. h of the d. k
down Into the submarine, and shoot it
up through the open hatch Into the air
so high that the ladder. ctrrlng a strip
of one of the workmen's overalls fas.
tened to the rungs, landed on the ro.if
or a slud about !!. f.ct to the north
east of the dry dock,
l.lem CiH.ke s ptory of Jii"t what hap
pened within the sulmiiMiie and other
iletnllM will not . mailable to the public
unt he snd oihe, navy is-n win. Im-
began an Inve-tlcalioti hive
rtpii.rleil to their ,ielftr.. .,.t
,oi.l(e-s reHrt yeslerdav io Admiral
!r ,onk nnl' " sentence. He said:
,. .,"!!" expliLslm, aboard the
I... under the battery deck," the battery
deck meaning, Admiral Usher explained,
the storage battery deck
Admiral .Usher, nliu was called awnv
rrom a lliuclie'm to Congressman Lemue'l
I'adgett at the Iteptibllcati club In .Man
hattan because of the ex slim, upon
I,. rn 1 "'" n,,vy 'a,r'1 'I'P.dnted
the following as a ,oin of Investigation
to look Into the cames of Hi,, dlnister
I.leiileuaiit.CoiimiHnder Pope Washing
ton commander of the receiving shin
Maine. I.leut. I., .if. Stewart of the de.
KOENIG, ALSO, G0T
VON PAPEN CHECK
Kimiiiih'iU.s Sliow Aftivitics. of
lliiiiiliiiri: l,im's Sccrcl
Si'i'viif Cliii'f.
LomioN-, .Ian, 15. The pap, is se.ed
b the llritlsh authorities from Capt.
von I'apen, m tccalled i lei man Mili
tary Attache, fnrmerl) at Washington,
pait of which weie madn public jtsier
day, show that Von apeu made pay
ments by check to I'aul Koenlg, under
airest In New York, ainl Maim Adam
Mill Weillll, Indicted by a IVdeia) llrand
Jury III New York. Koenlg and Von
Weillll, arrnrdltig to the charges against
them, played Important parts in the nc
tlvltles of Oerman agents In the United
Stales,
Check stubs show, according infniina.
tlon obtained to. day, that seeial checks
for large amounts were iiuulc out lo
Koenlg, who was head of the police ser
vice of the Hamburg-American Line.
The check books show the lecelpl bj
Capt. von I'apen of large sunia from
"IScriistorft" Us well as from "IJntbissy."
Koenlg was at rested on December 17
on a charge of conspiring with otheis
lo blow up the locks of the Wellanil
Canal, t Ounce ting Lake Kile and Lake
Ontario. Von Weillll was Indlcltil ley a
Keder.il llrand Jury on Kchriiary S last
on a charge of procuring false passports
for Herman reservists, lie cm-aped ninl
It was reported later Hint he had been
taken from the Norwegian steamer ller
gensfjord by Ilrllluli authorities while at
tempting to make his way tn flermnny.
Cm I Hui oede, who was Indicted with
Von Weillll. pleaded guilty and was
sentenced to three years In the Kederal
prison at Atlanta.
U. S. ACTION UNLIKELY.
More ConelilKlMe i:ieiice ufiliml
Von I'npeu ceded.
WamiiiniitoN, Jan. IS, The proba
bility Is that the United States will
lake no formal action In legard to the
latest disclosures of the activities of
Capt von I'apen, the Herman mllllniy
rlnrhlirst, N', C, renlre of outdoor aperla.
Hotel Curollliu, Holly Inn, Ucrtialilrt. Now
open. Adv.
ir.n.i MiCall and l.leut liush S Kay
of the second division of sub.'uirlnes, to
which th K-2 belonus.
lny llnte Court of Iminlr.
It is likely that Admiral Usher will
decide within a diy or two to ask that
a court of Imiulr, cmislrtlng of Judge
advo.ale and thrie others, act In the
ease. In accidents .so serious as that of
jesterday, especially where there ate
futjllties, sucli a court is convened and
witnesses then nia be examined under
oath. Admit. l IVlier had not deflnltel
ilecttlcd last night whether or not such
a tourt would be necessary.
Secretary of the Navy Daniels was
Marling out to speik at the National
D-'inis-ralic Club In Manhattan on "Pre
paiedness" when told that a submirlne
had I'f.Mi blown up. It was said unoltl
clallj around the niny yard later that
the Seeretai would arrive there during
the nflerii'iou ami that Miller Iteese
Hun bison, rhlef engineer for Mr. Kill
son, also would arrive nluut tho same
time, niey had not come, however, up
to Hi" time the ard was closed for the
1 d-iy.
I When Secretary Daniels was told by
attache In this country, unless the evi
dence Is more deilnltc and conclusive
than Is Indicated In the cable despatches
from Umiluii. It was pointed out b
otllclils here to-day that It was one thing
I i have a set of rlrcumstaiit es that ap
pear com hieing and quite another thltu
to obtain leg il proofs of the unlawful u.
of intinev Mich as would ernilt of formal
action by this liiivernniont.
j Count nn Mernslorff. the Oerman Am
i bassailor, disposed of the alleged rcvela
. lions, hy saying they did not concern the
embassy, as Capt. von I'apen had no
' olliclal connection with It. but reported
(directly to the War Otllce in Herlln.
j No denial wos forthcoming tit the em
bassy that advances of money had been
I made lo Capt. cm Ripen. It was ex
plained that this war not an unusual
proceeding, partlculaily In view of the
.conditions tirlslng from the wnr, Al
I though such pdMuetitK weie made hy
(the Ambassador. It said, Capt von
! I'apen made no accounting to him and
was lesponslble only to the Herman War
Office.
The fact that Von I'apen nilninceil
money to Werner Horn, a Htiman citi
zen now miller airest for attempting to
blow up the international bridge at
V.inceboio, .Me., Is regarded as Hie most
Hlglilllcaut res elation, At the t-aine time
It Is regarded ns extremely difficult to
gHe It un value us legal evidence.
DENIES HE IS "It. V. M."
m llr j sen tin k tn m He llliln'l
Write 1,1'ller Von I'niien HnA
Nuw Oiii.pans. Jan. 15, Karon nrnest
Mm Meysenbug denies emphatically thai
I he is the author of a letter alleged to
, have been written to Capt. von I'apen
I over Iho slgnalille "It. V. M." He made
I the following statement to-day :
"Ilefet ring lo the London despatch
I concerning the papers of dipt von
Papen I wish to say that I never wrote
Hie lettir leproduced III this despatch
and signed 'It. V, M '
"1 ma add that I have never had any
roirespoiulence whatever with Capt, von
I'apen except an Inquiry addressed to
him In August, 1014, ns to where the
Saxon Aimy Corps, In which my son was
a Captain, had been scut,
"It seems almost needless for me lo
say that the sentiments expressed In the
letter lefened lo are entirely rontraiy
to those I entertain toward the country
In which It has been my happiness to live
for foity cais."
Atlanta lllrinlnglmm. New Orleans California
Via KOl'Tlir.UN HAHAVAV, the popular
nunc liiforiiiulltin. N, V.ytttc, JKI Fifth Av,
fc.
SCENIC OF THE EXPLOSION AND THE WRECKED SUBMARINE.
A HOVE General view of Urydock No. titken jesterday, s.ho.ving
the sulimurine E-'J. which was blown up, in the foreground. In
the back of the drydock are two sulininrincs of the K class. They were
not damaged. Helow to right, is n photograph of the E-1.;, going at
full cruising speed. To the left Thomas A. Edison going down the
hatch of the E-2 to inspect his new buttery on the occasion of his visit
to the navy yard, a few weeks ago.
a reporter for Tin; Si:n that four men
had been killed hi tho submarine explo
sion at tlie navy yard he exclaimed:
"What a teirltlc acldc-it ' IVur men!
Nothlnc has so upset inn before '
Secretary Daniels said lh.it he would
not make a formal statement respecting
the accident until he had a full and
VON PAPEN'S DATA
EAGERLY AWAITED
Fcilt'nil A iron (s I'vpccl Spizril
Documents In ('liiicli n
Number of ("uses.
The .iriivnl nf the documents seized
by Hie Hrltlsh in Capt. Kranr. von
I'apen's dossier Is awaited eagerly h
the Department of Justice. The letters,
i heck stubs and other data are expected
lo furnish a great amount of evidence
that will help the Kederal olllclals tn
clinch a number of other cases on which
they ale working.
A hunt was made yestenlay for the
Dr. K. W. Meyer who unite n letter
to Capt. mmi I'iipen piior lo his sailing.
There nro many Meyers In the city, hut
nn one could be found lo admit the
allthoishlp of the missive.
Denials with regard to nrious parts
of the Von I'.ipi ii letters weie Issued
Alwood Vlolett of Atwood Violet I & Co
gave out a stalement in behalf of Huron
llrnst von Meysenbug, former Herman
Consul at New Orleans, but now a part
ner of the company,
Mr. Vlolett's statement follows; "Karon
Mm Mf sealing has been a lesldent of
New Orle.ii for more than thirty-live
ears and at one tlni" was the Austrian
Consul there, ami silbstsueutly the. Her
man Consul them, but Ii" has held
neither position for ten years. All tho
lime thnlt he wax Consul for the coun
tries named he was engaged In the cot
ton business as an exporter and lnco
IPOS ho ha been the resident partner In
New Orleans of the cotton ilrm of At
wood Vlolett Ii Co."
A I'avensledt. u member of the firm
of O, Amslnck k Co., was n warm friend
of Capt von I'.ipen. He liven at the
Herman Club, where Capt von I'apen
lived at times durliu his visits to tills
city H. Amslnck & Co, Issued tlie fol-low-Inn
statement ;
"The. statement In a morning paper
timet ('apt. von Unpen had made pay
ments 'tnrougn u. Aiiisincu f.- en, s
SEAIIOA1II) ri.OKIHA, I.TII., 3ilfl I'. M.
qulrkeat, ftnesl PlorlJu trsln tit ahnrteat
Hear. Keyboard Air Line Hy till Uromlw.r,
A4v.
' - 1 1 1 11 . 1 . w ,
complete report from Admiral Usher.
U the time -he was then at the Na
tional Denirv ratio Club he had nierelv
tea id that an explosion had occurred
in a submarine at the naw v.ud There
had hcen no Intimation In tiie early re-
'unliMiirif on Mrfi pnr
wholly false. Hecnuse of act,ualnt-
,'llH'e with Ailolph I'alenstedt. a member
of th" firm, the ilrm has from tin, to
tlie tvished Capt yon Papon's cheeks on
the Itlggs Hank ;lt Washington, lie hav
ing no bank account in New York These
checks were nlw,is drawn to Mcesr r,
Amslnck & Co., bearer.
"They were paid in ourteno and
he I'.r.n has no knowledge or InfoVm.-
' mm of the us,, to which the i niiev
was lo be put. The chel.K cashed were
iT'f,r,n"a" , 'V""""11"' l'-r excetsllng
, Jl.nmi. a,,, ,,e aggregate amount was
not large They were cashed
, as personal accoininodaiion. ueh as the
; firm uniformly extends to arciu.ilnt
ances and lo those who are properly
' Introduced, '
"Capt. von l'apon ha netr hiUl ,
iiccoutit with i !. Amslnck S. Co and the
firm has neier made any remittance or
p.i meats on his account. Neither
. has the flint tt.t i. .
. "' "s meniners
liiillv.du.illy ever ,acei for him In unv
wa and thej have no knowledge or
coutiectloii with his business or llnan.
clnl activities," "nan
NO GATES: AUTOIST KILLED.
Ir. I!. F. IlimUt sir,,,.), h. Tmlii
in CrossliiK hi TlldeToo,.
liiPUKwooii, .. .1., ,;,lp i r,r R
Hanks, president of the Hanks Dental
Association, was Instantly killed on tlie
ctosslng at the P.rle Itallroad station
lu-ioBiu wnen ins automoliilo ,Vas
struck bv the Western i:press. fh
bn was carried fifty feet and his
small car was wrecked.
Dr. Hanks lived on the Itldgewnod
road, Westwnod. He had nrrhed from
Jersey Ct and took his cur out of n
garage, intending In drive liiinie. There
ate nn gates at Hie crossing now, ns
the Krle Is building a new station north
of the old oho and is plaiiuliu; to con
struct a crossing under the tracks. Two
watchmen with lanterns, however, were
on guard.
Tim dentist was twice married Ills
son, John T. Hanks, Is a dentist in
West l''ort . second street, New York
oil v.
In- llaiks's d'aughler, Supine, Cornel'
HanUs Wilder who died on December
21. l'.'i:i, was the wife of Mirshall I'
Wilder, i he entertainer and liuniorls,
Mr Wilder died on January in, S-,,
Al lH SiTA M'Kt'l.tle I lOH I'. l. H.WI.Y VI.
Siil'TIIIUtN ItAIIAVAV for Aiken hiuI ,i.
sustti Cuiiipsrliiient tur lUlly ta Aususts
bnprl. eertlr. Is V timet, riflh Ave!
Ait-
t. S. PKEfKOKXTS
VOW APT I OX CITKI)
London Piipors Wiirn Xcu-ti-als
Hid (invurnmoiil.
Show Xo 31 dry.
I.O.VDON. .Inn !.". Itepresentallves of
American shippers here expiessed thi
opinion to-day that the orders In coun
cil, on which Ureal Krltaln bases he."
blockade of Germany, will be superseded
in the near future by an actual derlara.
tlon of a blockade, thus nioie closely
approximating American Mews and
American precedents.
The one point established by the, presi
opinions published here Is that Hre.lt
Britain cannot and will not decrease til
stringency of her present blockade ot
German Imports and expoits, but will In
crease the seveilo of the blockade Ri
the war progresses, no matter what posi
tion may be taken by tlie United States;
orotherneutr.il Powers. A -t long feel
ing Is expressed, however, that such n
I move should 1- made to confotiu as far
as possible to .precedents established by
the United States, thus dlsai nilng Ainc-
, lean protests.
' The i'ul! .lf'ill l.'riftf'. ili-eu-slhg
1 American press reports legardmg the al
! tliudu which the United Stales inav
j adopt with reginl to the blockade o.uec
tion, says .
Wnrnlim In nn-rlen.
"If Count von llernsimff --iiccceds In
obtaining a quid pro ipio for the oiitwanl
recantation b Hetniaiiy of ln i acts of
piracy and succeeds In enlisting thu
United States as one of Hei inaii 's tnliio
Indirect allies in h'T tlfoits to tide tho
world, we may expect flesh attacks upon
our Interpretation of lnternatl it law-
If President Wilson should elect to wall.'
the road so obligingly cmisti ucted for
him by Berlin It Is well he should realln
whore It is going to lead him.
"The British Kmpltc which Is shed
ding blood und not ink foi the Indie,
tlon of 'neutral rights,' has r. idled a
stage In the c.intli ( win it tec mcalitie
will not be atloAfl " restrain Hi" I'git
mate use ol all '" '' eapons ! warf.cn
Our right ti pn w ni -mi l is f i
reaching the i iu my is absolute, .mil, i'
the process assu ns lusii ilisuinses, .
Is the business of '.iitcrii.nion.il law I.,
strip them olT and not t" be fettered
by the wording of Its form- r teseripts.
"No British Oovriituciit would d.ne
to relax Its grip on Hciinanj now i .
deference to Inteicsts and thnats o'
outsiders who are clucil inteieMcd In
what profit the can inak. on. of the
world's agony The M.ii k.idc In th
future mint be tlghtei instead of loose .
and nothing will Imparl to n a .-term
temper than an evterna mieifen nee "
"We must not .l.ti.ii." si- to. ltV
mliufer !n:ill' i i an editorial, "th.i
the American I pie j i "ii on. side i i
this conflict, but we lb al n d til. nit lo
bellee that the ari.it 'I' inc'atie people
of the New World .11 alio tln n n -fluence
to be um-iI to o's.n in tin iIimiio
cratlc people of th old World in tliei
ttrilggle for libeilj au. 1111.-1 inlllt.tr
domination. Tnej will be sure to look
back to their on 11 hl-toiv and leinem
her what tho said and thought win 11
neutrals expected m demanded iliat tlrcc
should bleak their blockade 01 tlie
Southern States If at this m,ikc tln.
threw their weight into the -cite 'm.iin-t
us or tried to deprne us of our priiiclptl
weapon against the Central powers thee
would be doing what they most hot'
resented in then owe civ.-"
IViiretl lo OrTenil Nenleols,
A person who 1.111 sp ak author 1 1
liiely and who has .11 I'd as 1 repn
sentalne of Amcie au ml-tests in i cc
' nectlon with British pn.. .-oui-t proeeoil
ings reviewed to-day the cMilution of thr
orders In coined, He si .1
"The British 1 io ci nun nl slums an
unmistakable lei dcin now . shut
around to the pcrisicinl, 1 prscil
American C'iutenii".i Ui it tin inltriii
tlon.il law winch preiailed lirfoie I'
present war must nltini.ttt 1 govrni
Hreit Hi Haiti's aert i"ii nf Iur mi
power. It is well I.iiiom lli.it when tie
war began the Aiiin.ilt 'i!iei upon
the Korelgn 1 nil. e tin n. 'or I
decl. nation of It 11 iotuil l'l".'l..nle, bat
the l.ltter bellcM-il lll.lt t'n silscept ilul -ties
of neutrals roiild be bettei met by
orders In cniiiicl'. .mil ..Hei 1 . , 1 piuui
of these I lit' I l.iM I llinenl btg.ill Us 11-
1 tcTuiitloual agro'ineiits with mutials
j "Thesti ligreenienls might hue sin
ceeded had It not I n tor the opp.isiti.io
of the United States, which took the
sfatid from Hi" tlrt tint tin ..id.. is 1,
council were illegal and that Pit. 'too
even veiled or -ub l"-a ie 'I'lnl'i'ii of
them iu foinis s'lndar to the Innisn
agreemen' and the Nctlierl .nds Ovci
seas Trust would be a -in 11 inlor ef
Anierlran snveiclgiitv un.lei I'leiin-
.tion.il law liven though nni imlorsi' g
the uttltude of the biggest of Hie nei,-
' trills, the snuller ncilt-il Maps liegm
'to chafe under the agieeiueni-, w '.I . It
'ate criticised 11s icing partial
Orders In Council Moilllieil,
"Viirthet more, thee agieeno nts h,iv
tilways lieen a diieci in u. ui" 1. of Sir
Samuel Uvans's iln luni t" the elfe. t tli.it.
ilt is Inconceivable that Hie ltnrii Hm
1 eminent would issue am h leu a
I council wh.ch a pn.e couii ild 1.1
1 elder as iiiigalot.i In tecogui. I .nlerra
, tlnnul law-
"The lompromise nut of mint li Iho
Hrltlsh Hoxerniiient wiin On- Chlcngit
pi.ckers IS the best coli. lete evidence of
the nioilltlcatliin of the 1 inlei m 1 'nunc l
to llieel llle concepl "' 'i'i '1 1ll1111.it
law existing before lie wai There. Is
oilier evidence of such ui"iiil.'aiuiii. anil
. a striking tubule to tin ..Id unci nation;, I
law Is seen III lb" -'"W.'ig 1 ei ogiutiou
I of the fact thnl di spii' n -- it nsy struc
ture, il l the "I'll piUN.Iilc .i.dc for in. 1
st'tlenient of the problein- laiseil hy tho
relations of belligerents with neutral'-
"iSn-.it Krita.i. s , tilt uipis 'o - in.iidne
11 lode of her own that would not fun .
dangerous ptecedellls win lie heist f
It Kl tin a ti.-iltl.il lire dooiii'il o fad, and
I should not be surprihul if thu I'tuck
Office adopts the cournu recommended by
