AS ?r-5-t anno meed January I, 1916, Th? Herald
guarantees full money's worth to the pur
chasers of article* advertised in the display columns
of this paper b> any Washington merchant.
(.Circul?t Furnished Upon Request).
THE
HERALD I One Cent
NO. 3379.
WEATHER: Snow or r?in; wanner.
WASHINGTON. D. C. SUNDAY. ?JANUARY 16. 1916.
ONE CENT.
? "? nahlnartoa so* rosata ?ooorbaa?
l.e-.l. lUrtHIKI tu? irvTi,
EDISON BATTERY
CAUSE OF BLAST,
DANIELS' BELIEF
Hydrogen Gas in Submarine
E-2 Results in Death
to Four.
ELEVEN BADLY INJURED
Explosion Follows Complaint
of Commander About Fault
in Submarine.
BOARD OF INQUIRY APPOINTED
Secretary of N?vy Promises Full
Probe Alter Preliminary Investi
gation Is Made.
Ill ? lai to Tbe mWMM Herald.
New York. Jan. IS.?Four men were
killed and at least eleven others injured
today in da explosion in the submarine
E-2. In drydock at the Brooklyn navy
yard.
Tbe dead:
R. B. SEA BERT, third-class electrician,
E-2.
JOHN II. PBCK. civilian workman.
JOSEPH LOGAN, civilian workman.
JOHN SCHULTZ, civilian workman. "*
The cause of the explosion has not yet
been officially determined. After a hasty
survey, naval ??officers tonicht stated un
?fflctariy that the destruction waa prob
ably caused by hydrogen gas.
The E-2's commander had previously
reported that the new Edison batteries
were developing too much hydrogen gas
while being charged. It was to remedy
this that yard workmen were Installing
a new ventilating system at the time of
the accident.
Thirty-two men. ander the direction of
Lieut. C. tt. Cooke. In charge of the K-2.
Were in the vessel's hull at the time of
the accident. They were engaged ln over
hauling her and in discharging her bat
teries.
Admiral Usher, commandant at the
navy yard. dtKt?mi tonight the new
EdLaon batteries could not have been re- j
spavialble for the rM?rTm)on.
The accident occurred *% 1;15 p. rn.. Just
after all hands had turned Jto for the
afternoon's shift. The E-2 had been
brought into the drydock on December 30.
Three other submarines, undergoing over
hauling, were lying ln the dock.
I s?.' ,?!?.:. Shake? llritl.il u.
There was a tremendous explosion,
shaking buildings and vessels it. dock.
Bpectactors saw a cloud of black smoke
belched from the open hatchway of the
E-2 as from the muzzle of a giant can
non.
Then a barrel rose in the air. G?
rcctly beneath there rose the arm and
leg of a man.. One man had been work
ing on the deck of the submarine. He
was lifted Into the air by the force of
the explosion, wa* pitched up at least
twenty feet, and landed back on the
deck, unconscious and crippled.
Panic spread throughout the yard. The
terrific report had brought every one In
the neighborhood to drydock No. 2. The
fire bell clanged hoarsely and the yard's
private fire engine hurried to the scene.
Admiral Usher reached the dock soon
after the explosion and took charge of
the rescue work.
Within a quarter of an hour after the '
accident an order was sent out closing
all gates of the yards. Men inside were
not sllowed to leave, and both sailors
and visitors seeking admission were
barred.
'?as Prr-ar.ir.il
Immediately after the explosion the
odor of escaping gas became prevalent.
Oxygen helmets were brought to aid res
cuers ln desoending into the submarine,
but they were found useless.
Then s ? attempt to blow the gas from
the hull failed. Finally divers' outfits
wer? brought. Clad In these, the rescuers
were lowered Into the boat and com
menced bringing out the dead and In
jured.
Fire had followed the explosion, en
dangering' the dock and greatly ham
pering the work of rescuers. Admiral
Usher ordered steam drills attached to
the sides of the submarine, so that the
armor plate might be torn oft and other
entrances effected.
Th? exterior of the E-2"s hull was not
damaged. But the Interior was complete
ly srrecked. naval officers admitted.
Three hours had elapsed before the last
body had been taken from the vessel.
John H. Peck, a civilian plumber, and
Joaeph Largan, his helper, had been work
ing beneath the battery deck when the
explosion occurred. Both were pinned
beneath the mass of iron and steel debris.
Their bodies were not reached until after
3 o'clock.
Admiral Usher, before the hot Iron of
the damaged submarine had grown cold,
appointed * board of Inquiry to make *
preliminary examination Into the causes
of the accident. This board consists of
Lieut-Corn. Pope Washington. Lieut. L
M Stewart and Lieut. Rush Fay. It
will make public the result of its Und
ings early next week.
A permanent board of Inquiry, to be
composed of three officer* and ahju.lge
adv?cale, wilt continue to examine into
tbe causes of the disaster, after the
at i.l? si-ecial board has ceased.
Daniels Puts Blame
on New Batteries
Spactal to Tb? Waabt??-toa Herald
New York, Jan. 15.?Josephus
Daniels, Secretary of the Navy,
tonight gave out tbe following
statement ;
"I don't know yet just ?hat
caused the explosion aboard the
E-2. It was evidently caused by
the'Edison batteries. It may have
been caused by some new and un
foreseen trouble in the batteries.
"Rear Admiral Usher has al
ready convened a temporary
board of inquiry* and as soon as
it makes a report, I will appoint
a board consisting of the most
experienced submarine authorities
in th?? country. They will probe
the matter thoroughly."
Thomas A. Etiison, inventor of
the batteries aboard the E-2, said :
"I have no data yet The ex
plosion might have been caused by
any one of a hundred things." *
v
PROTESTS ACT
OF SEIZURE
German Envoy Says Britain
Should Not Have Taken
Von Papen Papers.
STATE DEPARTMENT CLAIMS
BRITONS DID NOT DO WRONG
Asserts Safe Conduct Document Re
lated Only to Persons* of Recalled
Attaches, Not to Belongings.
Count von BernstorlT, the German
Ambassador, has made a protest to the
State Department against tlie action
of tha British authorities In seizing
the personal belongings and papers of
Capt von Papen, the recalled military
attache of the German Embassy here.
upon his arrival at Falmouth two
weeks ago.
It ls complained that the act was In
violation sf the safe conduct assur
ances given by the allied powers.
Commenting on the esse, a high Ger
man offielaJ said yesterday; "The Brit
ish 'safe conduct'. ??**??*?-?? to be a mere
scrap of paper." In this connection.
it has become known tbat the German
government will name no succassors to
Capta. Boy-Ed and von Papen;
While Ambassador Bernstorff main
tains that there was nothing Incrimi
nating in the documente seized and
declares that nothing disclosed In the
correspondence casts any cloud on the j
embassy, his attitude is that the terms]
of the safe conduct papers Issued to
Capt. von Papen were violated, as they
denied ihe right of search.
? aulir d Olii? I? Their Person?.
?Stale Department officials take a differ
ent view. They say the safe conduct re
rtu??sted by the United suites for the re
called German attaches applied only to
their persons and not to any papers or
documenta they might carry with them.
At the time the request was made. Sec
retary Lansing said no guarantee of safe
conduct had been reciuested for the bag
gage or personal effects of the attaches.
Department officials said the papers tak
en from Capt. von Papen will be turn??d
over to the Department of Justice If anj
thing incriminating ls found in them.
The only comment Secretary Lansing
would make on tbe correspondence was
that he bad not ordered Ambassador
Paye to forward It to Washington. The
documents were turned over to Mr. Page
by the* British Foreign office. Mr. Page
acted on his own initiative, the Secretary
said, in sending them here.
London, Jan. 16?Payments by Capt
von Papen, the recalled military at
tache of the German Embassy at
Washington, to two persons charged
with playing Important parts In the
activities of German agents in the
United States are disclosed by a fur
ther examination of the documents
in the British government's posses
sion.
Stubs sbow that checks were given
to Paul Koenig, head of the police
service of the Hamburg-American
line, who is under arrest in New York,
and Ffcans Adam von Wedell, who has
been indicted at New York for con
spiracy. Koenig is said to have re
ceived several checks for large sums.
Huerta's Son-in-law Arrested.
EI Paso, Tex., Jan. 15?Luis Fuentes,
son-in-law of the late Gen. Huerta, and
Aristado Carrascosa, who were Indicted
several days ago at San Antonio In connec
tion with the Huerta conspiracy to start
a revolution in Mexico, were taken into
custody today. Fuentes gave ?2.300 brand
but Carrascosa, unable to furnish Bond,
was put tn jail.
Canadians Lose 535 Men in Battle.
Ottawiv Jan. 15.?Losses of ?35 men
killed and wounded In the Third mounted
rlO?-"? of Medicine Hat and the Thirty
first battalion of Infantry of Calgary
were announced today. There are
numher of Americans In the Third"
Mounted Rifles.
Bare Backs Lashed in Zero Weather.
Uilmin^tun. Del, Jan. 1.'?.?Stripped to
the waist In zero weather, twelve pris
oners were whipped in the work house
ysrd today. The men were tied to posts
while the lash waa apif'ied to t^f1** jmtt
backs.
MONTENEGRINS
WILL NOT MAKE
SEPARATE PEACE
Rome Dispatches Say King
Nicholas and Army Will
Fight to the Last Man.
BULGARS QUIT MONASTIR
Fierce Fighting in Eastern
Galicia and" Along Bess
arabian Front.
RUSSIAN ATTACKS REPULSED
Germans and Bulgarians Prepare for
? Monastir Dist
Invest Albania.
Drive in Monastir District to
rateerai Cable to The Washington Herald.
London, Jan. 15.?Montenegrins will not
make a separate peace, according to offi
cial utterances contained In Rome dis
patcher tonight. They declare that King
Nicholas and his army will tischt until the
last man.
Scutari advlrea state that the Monte
negri? capital will be established at Pod
xorltza, following the fall of Cettlnje.
Podgorttza Is thirty-eight miles north of
Scutari on fke Montenegrin side of the
Albanian frontier.
Tha* Montenegrin diplomatic corps has
arrived at Scutari.
The fleeing remnants of the Monte
negrin army are threatened with capture
by a projected drive of Germ?n and Bul
garian troops into Albania from the Mon
astir region.
The Montenegrins, after abandoning
Cettinje, retreated on the whole south
and west front toward the Albanian bor
der, according to an Austrian official
statement. Straggling bands of Montene
grins which crossed the Albanian fron
tier also are being harassed by Albanian
guerrillas. Fighting Is ge-hig on to the
northeast of Scutari.
Aim .. t ?.a?.?., i.r. 11.....
Th? purpose of the new movement of
the Germans and Bulgarians west of the
Monastir district is said to be the occupa
tion of Albania..
The Bulgarians are rapidly evacuating
Monastir. where their places are being
taken by Germans, 00.000 of the latter
having already arrived.
The Austrian attack on Mount Lov
cen was carried out by Gfl.OOO men who
attacked directly from Cattaro harbor
and the 12-inch guns mounted on the
height, Czcrmatz, bombarded the moun
tain.
The Vienna official report states that
the cannon taken on Mount Lovcen
amounted to forty-five. At Cettlnje, M
cannon, 10,000 rifles, ten machine guns
and great quantities of ammunition were
captured.
riKl.iinu I* Intense.
Increasing Intensity marks the fight
ing In Eastern Galicia and on the Beas
arabian front. The Russians repeatedly
charged en masse against the Austrian
positions. Vienna reports that all the
attacks were repulseli, the Russian
losses being enormous. Before one Aus
trian brigade, according to Vienna, 1,'JOO
Russians were left dead.
On the other band, Petrograd states
that along the ?trypn* the Teutonic loss.?
number no less than 1U0.O00.
The Austrian report says;
"The battle In Eastern Gallcia and
along the BessaraMan frontier Is con
tinuous. I'lghtlng In the Toporoutz .11?
trlct and east of Itarenoxll le more.bitter I
than ever. Russian columns twelve and
fourteen lines deep attacked the Aus
trian positions at some points four times
and at others six. but the desperate e
gagements always resulted In the repulse
of the Russians.
"The Austro-Hungarlans have main
tained all their position!!, and not an
Inch of territory has b-en gained by the
Russians."
Calmly Admits
Murdering Girl
Italian Says She Took All His
Money and He "Pun
ished" Her.
Special to Tlie Washington Her?ld. .
New York. ?Tan. 15.?T,ou!s Bianchetti,
neatly dressed Italian, sat in the de-1
tectlve bureau tonight and calmly told
Inspector Cray how he had murdered I
Dolore? Evans, 19, In Cleveland last Tues? I
day.
The murder of Dolores Kvans was one j
of the most brutal in Cleveland police j
annaL--.
"I did not mean to murder her," said
Bianchetti. "We were sweetheart? In j
Pittsburgh for many years. Several ?
months ago she run away, and took a lot ?
of jewelry belonging to me. I traced her
to Cleveland. There we patched up our !
Muarret. Tuesday we stop-p**! at the '
Perry Hotel. She went out in the after
noon taking all ray money. When Bhe j
returned we had an ?reunient. 1 wanted
to punish her. She screamed ami I was1
afraid that ber cries would attract other
i?uests. 1 ?Tubbed a towel and Htuffed I
it In her tng-uUl, U Ujfi jfrf 4A4tW Vif" Til 1
Thousands Watch Firemen
Fight Big Downtown Blaze
Fire in Brooks' Studio at 907 Pennsylvania Avenue Does
$3,000 Danjages?Emerson and Douglas Shoe
Stores Suffer Heavy Loss from Water.
The ruin of practically the complete
stock of one store and heavy damage of
goods In two adjoining stores resulted
from (Ire in the J. R. Brooks Photograph
ie Studio at VI Pennsylvania avenue at
;6 o'clock last night. The flames caused
a damage of more than S3.000, while the
loss by water will amount Into the
! thousands. It Is suppose tho Are was
!rau??d by the explosion of chemicals In
'the photographic shop.
? The Brooks Studio occupies the second
iStory and part of the third floor over the
lEmerson Shoe Shop. Much of the stock of
the shoe store was wet when the iron ceil
ing burst from the heat and let In a con
siderable amount of water. The Douglas
Shoe Store adjoining suffered loss by
water, as did the sporting goods and
novelty shop of D. N. Walford.
Fire lines were throwwn out by reserve
policemen to handle a crowd of several
thousand. Hose bridgee were thrown '
?across the street car tracks In Ninth
Btreet and Pennsylvania avenue to re
lieve long line? of blockaded street cars.
The Brtjoks Studio had been closed for
the night, and when the flames were dis
covered they had gained considerable
headway in the second floor of 907 Penn
sylvania avenue and Had huro??-d Into the
third floor. The (Ire did not spread to
adjoining buildings. 4
Damage to the building was estimated
?t K.000 by Fire Marshal Nicholson, but
the estimate of the loss by water was
withheld until a survey of the three
flooded ?tores has been made. The pre
liminary figure may be tripled In the final
report.
An incident of the fire was the srrest
of Dr. A. D. But?. 4*3 Eighth street sorth
west. who was charged with driving his
automobile across a line of lire hoee. He
was released under collateral deposited
at th? First precinct
Villa Captain Tells Graphic
Story of Death of Americans
Mexican Witness of Massacre, Veteran of Many Battles,
Says: "Never Before Have I Seen
Such Fiendish Cruelty."
By I HM(iM) BICHR.
? ??.-??, Ohihuahua (via ? Pa*o>, Jan.
13.?Rodrigo Gomez, the only known
Mexican :? issmg? ? f the tririn from
which eighteen Americans were taken
and brutally murdered by Villa bandits
last Monday, today told tlie story of the
?massacre.
Gomez was formerly a captain in the
Villa army, but retdgned three months
ago to accept a position with the Madera ;
Lumbor Company. Limited. His state- ?
ment saya:
"Never before in my career as a com- j
mandar in Gen. Villa's army hav? I wit- j
nees-rd ?uch a ?pectacl-? of fi-rndish cru- |
elty practiced Wy my eountrym^n as the
:nas?t*<;r*? of the A-nerlfun-j lamt Monday.
"On Monday afternoon at about 1 o'clock
some armed V Mista j stopped our train,
asking If there were any Americans on
board. When told by tha conductor tjiul
it number were with ua on their wa>
to Custhulrach!. the VI l lieta* told the
? onductor we could go ahead unmolested.
We did so. not believing that anything
untoward would happen.
"Half an hour later the train stopped
Two cth^r Mexicans and myself alighted
to see what the trouble was. Ahead of
us a freight train wa? blocking the line,
the engine having been deliberately de
railed
"Death to thr (irla|oei.M
"At the ?ame time I noticed that Mr
Watson, who was a tall man, alighieri
from the rear coach, together with *l%m j
Evans, to see what the delay was. They j
had barely stepped down when from the j
mezquite brush nearby 1 hear<^ a shout, j
'Death to the Grlngoes'' Followed Imme- j
a lately by about a half duren shots. I
?aw Evans tall forward and Watson start
to run In the opposite direction, a strt-an:
of hloo-ri ?ovt.rimi tenni his fare.
Then about twenty or thirty armed
Villini?* rushed from the brush and j
?tarted after every American they saw.
all the time yelling: 'Death to the Grin
gos!* and 'Viva Villa!'
"I Jumped back to the coach and ?af
knocked down by two Amerirans * ho
were attempting to flee into the cars ?
ahoad. I'nfortunately for them, two of I
the VIlltta? boarded our car and made
them prisoner?. The last I saw of them !
G????????? ON ???? TWO.
Mount Pleasant Citizens Will
Fight to Help Pension Plan
Public Service Committee of Civic Body Instructed to Ac
tively Assist Police and Firemen in Pleading
Retirement Case Before Congress.
The Mount Pleasant Citizens* Associa
tion laat night pledged its support to the
police and firemen of the city In their
effort* to secure an adequate pension
law from Congre?? this year. In addition
to recording Its support, the association
fhstructed Its pnbllc service committee to
actively assist the men in pleading their
case before Congress.
A little more than a week ago. The
Herald called attention to the shame
ful condition of th? police and-Art-men's
pension fund, in which there ls now a
total deficiency of more than .$60.000. Since
last Monday four civic bodies have voled
to petition Congress In behalf of the men.
These organizations are the Northeast
Washington Citizens', the Brightwood
Citizens', the Mount Pleasant Citizens*
and the Safety First Association.
William Henry' White introduced the
resolution in behalf of the men at the
Mount Pleasant meeting, and It was
supported by James M. Proctor, vho
lauded the character of the men wht
keep vigil over the life and pronerty of
the people of the District. He con
demned the present condition of the pen
sion law.
The association indorse the campaign
of the Retail Merchants* Association
against false advertising, and named
? Herrman Phillips and William Henry
j White to represent it on the "ad vigi
' lance committee."
? Prof. Burrows, chairman of the schools
committee of the association, submitted,
!a report of the committee recommending
'that the ?association oppose the plan of
the Commissioners and ask Congress to
sustain the present achool system. A
: vote was about to be taken on the rec
ommendation when a minority report t
i was submitted by Dr. A. J. McKelway,,
?a member of the schools committee, de*1
' fending the proposed changes of the Com- !
; missioners. A member put a sudden end
to the discussion by moving to adjourn.
| Kdward F. Colladay and Allan B. Da-!
vis, of the Federation of Citizens' As-!
' sociatlons, addressed the meeting on thai
alms and purpose.? of the federation, and,
l-vited the Mount Pleasant body to join.
? Fred J. Coldren and William Henry
j White were named a special commit*
| tee to confide: the advisability of join
? ing the federation.
Any One Can
Save Two Dollars
By Reading This Announcement
You save four cents a week by making The HERALD, at
ONE CENT, your Sunday newspaper. This four-cent weekly
saving amounts to more than $2.00 a year SAVED.
You will find in today's Sunday HERALD and in every
other issue of the Sunday HERALD a counter-attraction of su
perior merit for every feature of the other Sunday papers for
which you pay 5 cents.
Mrs. Pankhurst Pot od
Parole Pending: Action
Acting Secretary of Labor
Louis F. Tost last night wired the
Commissiooer of Immigration at
Kllij Island to release Mrs. Em
ma-line Pankhurst on parole to
await action on the appeal which
she will make from the finding
of a board at Ellis Island. Mrs.
Pankhurst was detained by the
board on the ground that she had
served a sentence in a British
prison.
Mr?. Pankhurst was similarly
detained and ordered deported a
little over two years ago, but was
released on appeal to Washing
ton.
It is believed that the depart
ment will again re%erse the board
and permit her to enter the
United States.
"NATION FIRST,
VOTES LATER"
Mrs. Pankhurst Says Future
of Womankind Is Bound Up
with Success of Allies.
I
DECLARES WAR IS GIVING
WOMAN GREAT OPPORTUNITY
Suffragette Denies She Has Deserted
Cause?Explains Lesser Issues
Must Be Ignored.
?
H, CIIAIK PHKirv
New York, Jan. 13.?"English women
hav* no time to talk of suffrage now.
The citizenship of our men i? ln danger.
If that is lost, the hope of Enfilah wom
en is codo. The future of all woman
kind la bound up with tbe ?ucceas of
the al?va."
In these word? Mrs. Emraellne Pank
hurst the former militant suffragist, ex
plained why she had turned tbe force'
of her personality from suffrage work
to sn active aasistance of th** once-hatM
English government In carrying on the
war.
Wtth hei secretary, Via* Joan Wtck
ham. Mrs H?fltjPVl arrived in this
country today on the St. Paul. Her
mission la to obtain funds for the Serb
ian relief. Because eh? had served
prison sentences ln England, she was
taken to Ellis Island to await the action
of a special board of inquiry.
M ninrn Hrln?, Developed.
While the necessary red tape wa? being
cut, I had an opportunity to talk to the
famous suffragette. Beneath her crown
of white hair the clear, tray eye? burn
ed with the fire of the idealist. Her
speech was soft but incisive. But when
I asked her questions concerning the
.MiiTfefce cause In England her manner
betrayed a nervousness which she tried
ineffectually to control.
"The suffragists of this country feel
that you deserted the cause when you
threw your lot In with the government,*'
1 began.
"But I didn't.** Mrs. Psnkhuret inter
rupted. "We are not agents of the gov
ernment. What we have done has been
lor our country. I?esser issues must be
ignored before the one great problem of
saving our country from German mili
tarism.
"The women are coming forward and
taking the places of the men in every'
line of work. They run the trams, work
in the munition factories. In banks and
th*? professions. They are showing that
they are capable of doing ?ork that has
always i>een considered man's work only.
They are working for the community.
They are releasing their husbands and
brothers for the work in the field. And
they are being developed to a degree
that never before w?a possible in Eng
land."
"Balkan Train" in Service.
Berlin (via Bey villa ? i releas?. Jan. 13.?
Regular train ?service between Berlin ard
Constantinople was inaugurated today.
The first through train left at 7:20 a. m.
It was made up of one baggage cat. two
coaches, a sleeping car and a dining car.
Each car bo:e the sign: "Balkan train.
Berlin to Constantinople." The route lies
through Dresden, Vienna, Belgrade and
Sofia.
Build New Type Zeppelins.
Rotterdam. Jsn. I!? ?The German gov
ernment Is at work building some new
type Zeppelins These new airships are
capable of carrying a huge number of
bomba, and are equipped with powerful
sea r*cl) lights. These eenrchlights are sus
pended by a cable, hang from 100 to 1.000
yards down fapm the craft Itself, and are
designed to blind the artillen men of the
enemy.
Husband Shot by Wife.
Cleveland, Ohio, Jan. li?Jame? Mc
Carthy. ?12. a railroad engineer, was shot
and killed today by a woman who claims
to be his wife. The woman gave herwelf
up to police, they ?ay. and toid them a
story of having been deserted by Mc- I
Carthv in Nashville a >ear agu. Bbe ,
gave her name as Uulu McCarthy.
Kilh His Children nnd Himself.
Chicago. Jan. la.--Police Sergeant
Harry Balrd L?6fcy *n?t ?*<?? a-IMed hi*
two Andren?Charle*. 8, and Rodine. 10
and then committed suici.l?. The cause
of the ?hooting is not known.
RESPONSIBILITY FOR
MURDER OF AMERICANS
IS LAID ON CARRANZA
Dispatches from Juarez Consul Say L. S. Cit
izens Were Invited to Mexico and
Given Assurances of Safety.
GEN. GA VARIA MADE PROMISES
If Reports Are Correct. Carranza Will Be Liable (or Indemni
ties?Senator Stone Requests Ful! Report on Situa
tion?Gore Urges Neutral Border Zone.
?
Evidence placing on the Carranza government the responsibility
for the murder of seventeen Amerkans last Monday at Santa Ys-abd
was received yesterday by the State Department.
It canjie in the form of dispatches from the Ameri-can consul ml
Juarez and government representatives at El Paso reporting that Gee.
Obregon, Carranza's commander at Chihuahua, had given Ae Ameri
cans an invitation to return to their propertv with assurances of their
? e
safety.
Inquiry was made of a high State Department official as to wh?rther
this would pia? the responsibility on Gen. Obregon. His reply was:
"If it is true that Gen. Obregon ext-aided the invitation and g***
the assurances, the responsihibty for the murders will rest not only o?
Gen. Obregon. but on the Carranza government.''
VILLA MAKES
NEW THREAT
Tells English Prospector He
Will Kill Every Ameri-can
in Certain District.
GIVES DEATH WARNING TO
"DAMNED GRINGO MORMONS
LI. S Soldier? Ch???* 120 Mcdcaiii
Out o? Fort Hancock Fol
lowing Dispute
j ?jo-eui to TV- Wsskinjv?* ImM.
El Paso. Jan. li.?Oen. Francisco V11U
ha? threatened to Uli every American
| In the ?. itaai? Grande? dlttrtct Tflf
rran-if received ben? tonight from Chi
huahua City by American ofBcia.?? stau
I that on January li. two days after
\ eighteen Ameri4-*na were tlauKhtere?!
near Santa Tsabel by Villa soldiers. Oen.
Villa told Lloyd Robinson, aa Enf-llsf.
prospector, thai he was coming north by
I way of Madera and Casas Grande?, and
! if he found any of those "?iamned:
? rrlng.? Mormons" on the way, he wouid
kill them nil
I Robinson arrived In ?Chihuahua ?City tt>
da>. He savi? that on last Thursday
? Gen. Villa was encamped five miles aouth
I west of San Andres, a little town on the
Northwestern Railway in Western ?Chi
huahua.
Bishop P. H. Hurst, head ot the Mor
mon Church In Mexico, today reeeiv?*d
instrucUons from high church officials
in Salt Lake City to order every Ameri
can Mormon colonist out of Northern
' ?Chihuahua and to malte immediate ar.
.rangements to transport them into this
Country.
Melica?? ? h ame* Owl.
There are more than 350 Mormon
colonists in Northern Chihuahua, in
cluding women and children. The
Mormon settlement ls only three days'
I Journey from Santa Ysable. where
eighteen Americans were murdered
Monday, and fear ls felt here that
the bandits are already approaching
the colony.
Arrangements are under way here
to send two more special trains un
der heavy escort to the Chihuahua and
Casas Grandes districts to get out .*.!
foreigners.
Aroui*-ed l?y the Santa Isabel raasaacre.
thirty l'nited States soldiers today
chased 1% Mexicans out of Fort Hancock
at the point of tbe bayonet, -.?-?-ordir?;
to telegrams received here. F4W1 Ha?
cock Is a small settlement on tbe Rio
Grande, forty-two miles south or E*
Paso Although the messages received
here are very meager. It is said that th?
trouble ?t?rt?-d between a Mexican
rancher and an American soldier. The
troops organised Into squad? and ordered
every Mexican out of town
CREW AKD WARSHIP SITTK
??????rtan 4 raiser (.?..?? thomm Is
Adriatic Before Preach ?al?.
Rome. Jan. li.?The entire crew of
the Austrian cruiser of the N?frara
type was lost when th? warship was
sunk by the Krench submarin? Fou
cault. An allied fleet ia cruising In
lfm Adriatic.
There were four cruisers of the No
vara type recorded in th? Naval Tear
Book for 1116?the Novara, the Hel
goland. Salda and m Admiral Spa un
?ach had a compliment of ISO men
Incorporate $60 000 000 Armi Co.
lluitfard. form.. Jan. 15.?Cniniinr-ttcut ?
Mggvi-t baby?? *?,4?,4joo corpraUon for
. lie manufacture and sale of arma and
t? ?in it ??**???--was Uunclicd totlay,
; ??. pera fnc-oiporsting thr Rtmntngtoa
Arms '. moil ?4? :.?>.:<> <_ aril nice
tlon. of Bridgeport wer? tue?.
The postilion of tha- State Departir??t
I* that If tb* r?a*pon?lr?lllty 1? pa* rad oa
the Carra?a* eovernment btcan? ot ita
failure to taste proper step? to protaaet
th? American*, this government will be
able to aak for Indemnity tor the familias
of tbe a1cti-n?
Trlrfra? Has? Feead.
Ka?mlnation j>t tha* file* of the Stata
Department laat nicht fatted to produca
a telea-ram which, tt ara* reportad, had
been *etit to Consul Edward* at 1 narra.
aaklni bim to obtain frota Carraaaa
durante??* of aafety for Americans m
entrrlne Mexico. Stau I leiacrtmrnt offi
ci???* ?aid that a teie*jra*n bad Aram aent
to Edwerals oo Jaaaaaasrr * Us? ?lata mm ^
which H w%* reported tb? tmmvmat Sta
a-ueraateea o? safety ba?* been anaak. ban
it ratal ?aat ceertaln aay avseh raqueet
Ftret wastaj that the siala non had re
ceived Invitati*?* ta r*a*tar CMkaaaabtai
I ?am* to the form ?f * teles-rear frasai
Consul Ed a arda, ?ta tine tb*t be basi
obtained from Uen. Gsvarie. Carranca
commander at Jttares, fu? ran tee? of anfe
ts tor tbe American* The Edward*' re
port continued that It ?aa trise tba?
upon Gen. (?avaria * action a sperisi train
wa* procured for <" R. Wataon. manato?
of tbe Cus? Minine; Company, and hia
assistants .
*?i. .. Waa ??ased.
Accordine to thi* report. Stata Depart?
ment official? aay. Gen Gavaria renewed
Ihis (assurance* that the Amulo? could
make tbe trip artth p>??rfect safety at
tbe same time that be advleed Consul
' Edward* of the procurine of tbe ape
I dal train. ,
Although yesterday's development?
were hrld by State Departmaat official*
to be not nine but rnrouraclnc. than? wa?
nothing to suggest that Use administra
tion will bred the demands of tbe tVnale
? rd House that a chance of policy be
inaugurated ao far aa tbe Mexican situa
Uon is concerned. ?
Senator 8lom. chairman of the Fer
rlajn Relations Committee, told Secretary
of State Lancine that It was staprrettve
that he furnish the committee a full ra
pen concernimi Mexico, aa called for by
the Fall resolution mil that waa don?
he salt, the commiiire could noi tura a
wheel, and the nomination of Henry P.
Fletcher as Ambassador to Mearte?
mould be ha.Id up Ind?.' rule!?
Secretary Leasing ??cured Senator
Stone the report wa* beine preparad by
his office and would be ready to tra*??
| mil by Tuesday. I pon retnrnlne to the
j Capitol Senator Stone Issued a call for
Is meetine of hi* committee tor Wednes
day morning
Senator Cora, of Oklahoma. aaM yea
terday that he ha* under conaaataration a
solution chitine on the President to
aet In concert with Carranca In eetab
ltahtne a neutral sene alone tb? Mexi
can border which ?diali b* p?cltced hy
L'nltasd States troop* sand Carra?as forces
for the protection of all pay sosas within
that ?one He may offer it In the Sen
at? tomorrow, the Senator statine that
he believes the United State* would he
Qualified in uaiag for.? If nu s ?aery, to
protect American el ticen? in Mexico.
K.i.? Sicki Sr.su..>?. buk."
Ua Rochelle. Franc*. Jan li.?Th?
Spanish ateamer Bayo ari* sunk hy a
floaUnc mine forty miles off La Falbe?
on Friday With a Iom or tsrenti-flv?
Iks* Only one member of the crew aa*
saved. The Baye wa* an ore oarrylrae
veasel of IT? tans, plyine between Brlt
h and Mediterranea* porta It waa
built In ins
Chicare H?. $100,000 Fire.
Clittago, Jan. U ? Damacae ?aa?eaU?
to IMO.?? ?aa ?teas* early today hy a Ara
that destroyed a flv*-*tory betldine en
West Lake etreet. More than Mt
of the Hetel R??ed and two other
?d>0allai were drlaren irto tha street la
scant attire by the smoke that filled th?
hotel tuilbjked Many ftremea suffer?*
?lieht injuries front stipp??* on tha h*e.
FALM llltH l?0 MIAMI.
arta AUcntle Coast Lin? ?.?? ?..li ? m
dally I
dally Office,
?a.? Lia?. L>-ave IJ .
other all-eteel limitai train*
G??. 1??? j; ? ??? C? ?At?*.
