REAL ESTATE FOR SALE, TO
LET, EXCHANGE OR WANTED
Situations, Help Wanted and Other
Wants, See Section Seven
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
66th YEAR
VOI.1MK 00
x i >1 molt i r,
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, JANUARY 16, 1916. ?FIFTY-EIGHT PAGES.
W !?: \T!I Kit
I'AliK I
?WARMER
PRICE, FIVE CENTS
Officials at Washington Acccpt
Good Faith of Assurances
Given by Carranza.
NO OUTBURST IN CONGRESS
Stone Asks Lansing for Constant
and Prompt Information
on Developments.
WASHINGTON, .faitnary 15.? General
I'arriiniH's formal rc?|i|y to tin* demand
of the t * t i i t < ?' I States for the punish
ment of the bandits who killed ?? itr 1?
t<fii Anierican mining men ni>ar Santa
V -a).. I. Mi'Xii'm, had not reached Wash
ington to night. luit ofllcials wore not
imllti'd to doubt the Rdoil faitlt of a s -
>iitani ' v given i>\ the general's am
l'?v*a?ior i|<-'iKnut<? here, Kliseo Arre
????inlo. thi:t every offorl wouM ho made
io Min iiotvn th'- murderers.
Tlic:io asnurnneon wcro renewed by
Mr. Arredondo to-nieht in making nub
ile tlio report of General Trevlno. in
' harcro of the forces detailed to rap
ture tho bandits and Insure protection
'o person* in th" district in which
they have liron operating. General
Trovlno. whose dispatch, transmitted
hv tho Mexican roiinul at HI Paso, also
<!'??<? rllioij the massacre, said those re
sponsible would b? "hunted down with
out rest "
The ilav parsed without any repeti
tion in Congress of the outbursts of
1 dl:;nat!on that have marked almost
<-w r' session since word of the Santa
"V I > J Incident was received Chair
? i.ii' Stone, of the Senate Foreign l!c
lations Commit lee, however, called on
Secretary l.ansing and requested that
I be committee t?- kept advised prompt
ly of receipt of any further Informa
tion. The secretary promised that
v otild be done.
iii:poiit or Tiir.\ i\o
<;ivi:n hit iiv aiikkiioxdo
The report of General Trevlno. us
inad' public by ,\lr. Ariedondo, follows:
"?'ii Monday at 11:15 A. M . special
"^raiii No 4 1 left Chihuahua for ?'usi
huirachic, arriving at Santa Ysabel at
1:1 > I*. M . and started from there, and
upon arriving at 'Kilometer 'IS.' west
of Santa Ysabel. it found another tr;un I
of the National Railways, hauled by j
rngine No. derailed. t.'pon pet -1
sous alighting from their train to see
what had occurred, they saw armed
men on both sides of the road, who
were matching on them, after which a
.-o--ailed general, named Kcna, ordered
that the crew be put under guard. He
then robbed all the pnssengers, looting
?he contents of t'..i wo .i.iu ? a press.
The murders followed.
"On the same day of the above in
cident, the general headquarters or
riered that a regiment embark at onru,
under the command of Colonel Jos
Villanuova, to start in the direction of
Santa Ysabel, with instructions to pur
vie the bandit*, and to endeavor to
get In touch with General Cavesos,
? ontnander of the detachment at
ltustillos, Cu.slhulracbic and San An
tonio, who was watching the move
ments of the enemy which had as
saulted the train.
"The bandits, upon observing the
movements of the Constitutionalist
forces in all directions, retreated to a
place called Carretas. according to tre
Information at hand, scattering in small
groups, which Tl*?ri towards the west
and south, presumably in the direction
of the mountains of Dutatigo If any
;:if >rmation is set tired that new nan-:
have appealed i:i the mountain rang',
the;- will be localized l?y our forces,
and will be hunted down without test,
in order :o prevent their concentration
at any given point.
Wit.I. COMI'KI. VI.I. IIVNI><?
TO IIISPKNSK Olt l.\TI-:i<\
"Military hea<b|uarters at Juarez in
formed this general headquarters that
our garrisons at Pearson, Cava a Grandes
and Madera had been increased. With
this combined movement of our forces in
two divisions along both sides of the
northwestern railways, it will be an
easy matter to keep all bauds which
may appear away from the place, com
pelling them either io disperse or to
intern themselves on the western
slopes of the Sierra Madrc*. where they
will he unable to find any means of
s insistence. 1
State Department ofllcials to-night
denied published statements that the
department had secured assurances of
safe conduct for the Americans k-'.'ed
near Santa Ysabel. It was said no
reqn-st was innde for such assurances.
Amontr many messages received by
President Wilson to-day containing ail
Nice as to the course of tlio United
States was one from Representative
Kent, of California, a partner In a
milling company which employed so:no
e' the Santa Ysabel victim*, urging
against Intervention.
srONK A*?IiS i.wsim;
poll PIIOMI'T INFORMATION
On I lie request of Senator Stone,
,1,airman of the Foreign Relations Com
mittee. Secretary l-anstng agreed to-dnv
to keep the Senate constantly -t ml
promptly informed regarding Mexican
developments, and also to hasten prepa
ration of Information regarding 'ho
Carranza government in answer to
Senator Fall's resolution.
Senator Stone visited Secretary Ioni
sing and told him the Foreign Rela
tions Committee particularly was vr.v
desirous of keeping in close touch with
Mexican developments. He called at
tention to criticisms lately made In Hie
Senate, Intimating that Mexican af
fairs had been clothed with secrecy.
"I also urged upon the secretary the
importance of tho l'nited States hav
ing a diplomatic representative at
tached to the Carranza government in
;hls crisis," said Senator Stone, "an 1
assured him that, we could do noth
ing toward confirmation of TIeniv
"(Continued on Fourth Pago.)
A8HKVII-T-E, In th* "LAM) OF T1IK SKY"
Delightful nil-year resort. Kxcellent hotels,
netting- For literature and information ap
ply SOUTIir.rtN RAILWAY, 907 K. Main
St. l'hono, Mad. 273.
Russian Citizens
Saje at Hopewell
Governor Stuart's Assurances
Delivered by State Depart
ment fo Czar's Ambassador
WASHINGTON. January 15.?Secre
tary Lansing to-day delivered to the
Russian ambassador hero tho assur
ances recently given the State Depart
ment |>y Governor Stuart, of Virginia,
?hat I'uBsianii were not hfinc mi.s
tr*atei| by State militiamen enforcing
order at Hopewell since the recent lis-j
astrous lit'*.
The ambassador had Inquired <>n an
appeal from the Russian colony at'
Hopewell, sent after the woun?lim; <>f
a Russian liy a militiaman trying to
arrest lilm.
At Governor Stuart's direction. a
military coutt Investigated the inci
dent. On the report of this court ex-;
onerating the militianian from blame
ami "ii a personal repott from the ? f
rtcer in rharjje at llopi wi-ll tl ? -
ernor based his response to Secretary
banning.
CANAL SOON TO REOPEN
I finetlinls Preparing to l*?ur Slntement |
Itelnllre to foil il It In n of
Wntfrnny.
PANAMA, January 15.?Major-Gen- j
eral George W. Goethals, Governor of '
the Canal Zone, is preparing to issue ;
a statement relative to the condition
of the Panama Canal, with special r? f- i
orenre to the reopening of the water- |
way to light draft vessel" at an early 1
date. The statement is expected to he
j maile publi ju ' before General
' Goethals starts f?t Washington on Jan- '
uury "J", when* l.< goes to appear he- (
; for'* congressional > ??minn tregard
j inir the Panama '"anal, canal troops.
I for11!i<-at ions and appropriations.
(t Is understood that fortifications!
j for which appropriations are likely to
i>e made will include fur ts on tho
Taboga and Atoke Islands and also at
Minefield and on the Pearl Islands.
' The construction of a modern fortifica
tion on the site of the ancient town of
San I.oteny.", at the mouth of tho
< 'hay res River, also Is understood to
he under consideration
Aecording to canal engineers. condl
Itions at the Galllard Cut are most eu
| con ra g inc. and it is exported that the
| canal at this point will h<' reopened
; to smaller vessels within a few weeks.
DISCUSS REVENUE PLANS
I Democratic Member* of limine Wny?
mid Mrnnx Committee l.ne*!* of
Mi'Adnii nt Dinner,
! WASHINGTON', January 15.?Demo
| cratlc members of the House Ways and
I Means Committee and chairmen of sin
House Committees on Foreign Affairs,
I Currencj and Shipping were quests of
(Secretary McAdoo, of tin- Treasury, to
: niglu at a dinner, at which party plans
i for raisins revenue and other admin
istrative measures were discussed !n
j formally. No decision* were reach*.d.
and those who attended said the meet
ing was purely social in cha facte- ami
! without political significance
Postmaster-< ienei ?1 Rurleson also
'was a guest at the dinner
chairman Kitehit . of the Ways and
| Means Committee, was unable to at
tend because of illness In his familv.
! HUERTA'S SON-IN-LAW BAILED
llrlrnsril \fter llelim 'I'llken in I'tiModr
im Piirtleliiniit In Pint In *tarl
\r? Itrvnlt in tlrtli'O,
r:i, !? \so. TI-:.\ . January !"? I.uis
! Fuentes. a son-in-law of the late Gen
'etal Victoriano lltierta, and Aristarco
jcarrascosa. who were indicted recently
at San Antonio as participants in the
alleged Huerta conspiracy '.<< star' a
new revolt in Mexico, were taken into
custodj to-day b\ agents of the I'nited
| States Department of Justice. Fuentes
'nave bond thtoiith an Ml Paso hank
j for $2,500.
Carrascosa, who was an ofticial of 'he
!l?lav. government and of tli?- Mndej-o
jtevolt. remained in Jail.
LEFT FOR DEAD IN CABIN
I on ill Mnriijf mUii, Itiinniiiu \ oiilenm n.
l-'nlind. After l.vlnu fnr Knur Diivd
\\ It limit Komi nr \\ liter.
PHOKN1N. ARIZ.. January 1,%.?Count
' Morajeska. a Russian nobleman, joint
j owner with Countess Morajeska of
' mining claims in the Tortolita Moun
! lain region, seventy miles from Phoe
nix. was beaten Into insensibility, then
shot and left for dead at his property
last Monday, according to word that
reached here to-day. He was found
on Thursday by the countess, who mo
tored to the claims.
i The injured man had lain in a en bin
| four days without food or water.
GUILTY OF WIFE-MURDER
i Frederick T. Price. Mlnricii|>oll? HiinI
nevs Mnii, I'niivleleil by Jury In
District Court.
j MINN'KA POI.1S. MINN.. January 15.- -
} I-'rederh-k T. Price, a business man of
I this city, was convicted of the murder
I of his wife, Marv Frldley Price, inem
i her of a wealthy Minnesota family, by
la Jury in district court hero to-day.
Stay of sentence was granted until
next Wednesday, when argument.s will
( be heard on the motion for a new trial.
; The defendant listened to the reading
j of the verdict with no show of
: emotion.
CALIFORNIANS FOR LANE
Member* of San Kranclnco llnr t'rgc
Seertlnry of Interior for Vacancy
on Supreme Bench.
SAN FRANCISCO, January 15.?A
telegram was sent to Washington to
day notifying President Wilson that
the San Francisco Hnr Association last
night indorsed Franklin K. I.ane, Sec
retary of the Interior, for the vacancy
In tho United Stales Supreme Court and
urging hia appointment.
WILGUS COMMENTS
ON BELT LINE PLAN!
Holds to Original Suggestion for
Carrying Streets on Arch
Type Bridges.
GRADE OF TRACK VERY FLAT
Consulting Engineer Submits
Supplemental Report on Exten
sion of West End Streets.
Holding to 1*Is* original vaguest "in
for an arch typo of constru< - j
lion foi carrying the West Knd Ave-'
nuoH over tlje depressed tracks of the'
Holt I *n<- Railroad, Knpliicui W .( ;
Wilgus. of New York. filed :i supple- '
mental report yesterday, lit which lis i
comment!* on the pending lnoillfl
prep.in.d by Assistant City l-htgigicer j
,\r. ( >. nankins umlor direct '.or. of the
.idmliil?fratlvo Board, and to l>e -on
siderod by the Council Committee on:
Streets to-morrow afternoon.
Mr. Wilguii was retained by The
Times-Dispatch as a nonpartisan '? \
port to xrivo an opinion on the bent
methodr of solving the problems rais
ed l)'-' the westward growth of the
| city and tho existence of the Holt.;
I.inc. Ill*-- ropr,r? called for a depres
sion of the tracks, and was In many
respects similar to a report fllod by
| Harry Krastlor, a consulting cnglneo--1
i 'railed in by the railroad company. i
' >n ?he strength of those reports, the'
Committee on Streets, at a recent
meeting. directed more extensive sur- J
veys along th general p'.-m of depr?**- j
ins th' track*, with a slight eleva
tion of the Intersecting streets. This I
modi Med plan is now* ready for con- j
sideratlon. Mr Wilgur comments i
peclally on the typo of bridgeo se!oci'-l
o<i and on the slight grade proposed,!
j which lie f<?a rs will hot provide sufi:- '
, oient drainage in tho railroad cu'
poniT.s wiir/mr.n fi.\t <;n wnc
wii.i, tiivi: ?.?><11> nitAiN\t;i:;
His report follows:
f am In rec?-jp? r? f your lotto- of.
j January It?, rir.'i l? it \ i r; carefully rend
.Mr. Trimble's letter t<> you, returned;
j herewith, ! have formed the con^ln-1
sion M-nt tho plan now proposed 1>\ ;
the c.i> officials for the depression ?? f j
the Mel: Line tracks of the Richmond} I
Fredcricksburg and Potomac Railroad
| contemplates a considerable niodi!!ea-i
tion of (he grado line, shown iipoo I
the blueprint that was furnished to ire;
of th* so-called "Myers" plar*," ani'
I also |he tis' of tho farm crossing in-1
j stead of tho arch type, of bridges at
, th? intersections of tho streets at:d
I rallroai's.
j As recards tho change In the grmle
line. If the railroad company has no
I objection to it. i assume that there
J is nothing further to be said, but if
I were acting for the railroad. I would
not feelj like a< '-optintr the Hat gr.de
that Is proposed between Acca and
Monument Avenue, where the differe
in elevation Is proposed to be out
? slightly over (hrc?- teot in a illstar.c.e
I of about, a mile Such a flat-grade line
tin a long cut is stir.- to result in so
rious troul?lc lack <?f proper tnu'k
drainage.
I.ATKIt M\KT< IIIOS l>ltl>\ IIII-:
I'Olt III T TWO Tit U'KS
As t?i the proposed u?o 0f the farm
[crossing or trestle type of bridge, in
stead of the a roll; I note from the sketch
to Mr. Trimble's biter that the opening
provides for but two tracks, whereas
I was informed that the railroad de
sired provision made at this time tor
tile laying In the future of two ad.li
t ion a I tracks, niakihg four in all. it
seems to me tl|at the proposed trestle
t ype of bridge is objectionable from the
standpoints of hoth parties to this
j matter, because <a> tl.e railroad is af
forded an insufllcient width fo: the
j number of tracks it desires, ami ? li)
the city secutes a very unattractive
sit iic i u i which will be an eyesore in
the development of what promises: to
be one of the handsomest sections ol
tho c i t \.
If. however, the railroad is willing
to a..ept the narrower opening, there
is no reason why tiie a-ch design should
not i> adapted thereto. In other words
the studies that were attached to my
report may he modi tied to fit the two
track opening, if that width is act:epta>
I ble.
\ IM'ltO \ I M t'l'l'l KSTI.V AT lis
SHOW A It < II TVI'K CIlr.AIMOK
I h.ave had some approximate esti
I mates made of tiie comparative cost of
J the farm-crossing or trestle type of
bridge and the arch, and f And that
for the same length of span and arch
design will ? ?>*! slightly less than the
trestle type Kor instance, a bridge
.with sufficient opening to provide for
j four tracks will cost approximately
II.tj;! per square foot of bridge floor
for tiie trestle type, in contrast with
SI..'a pi*i square foot for the arch de
sign. I liese tiguics ate. of course
i merely for comparative purposes, -nd
jaro based on the use of re-enforced
? concrete. If structural steel encased
j with concrete is used, as mentioned ;iy
Mr. Trimble, the cost of the trestle
j type will be still higher.
! Summarizing, it would appear that
I modifications in grade line are con
templated which I assume will ?
?matter of adjustment between the
representatives of tho railroad and the
city, and that the use of the trestle
type instead of tl.e arch design, is pro
posed. which I very stronglv advise
against in the interest of both the
; railroad from the standpoint of ade
quacy of width for the future expan
sion of trattle, and from the standpoint
of the city for beauty of surroundings
and possibly a .saving in cost.
As bearing on the present tendency
of the best practice, of the day, I at
tach an editorial that appears in the
last Issue of the "Railway Age Ga
) zette."
I do hope that the parties in Interest
can bo brought together in such a way
(Continued on Second i'ageT)
Traveler* Hetween Klchmoitd and Diiavllle
tiro nfTonlod Pullman Parlor Hliffcl service
lonvltiK Ittctimond 10:30 A. ,M? nrrlvtnpr
Oanvllle 4:t3 P. M.. nn?l ioa\liii; Danvilio
.1:10 1*. >f., arriving Hichiuoml s:30 1', M.
via SOUTHERN It A1 IjWAY,
STUART FAVORS
Reviews Work of Departments
in Second Message to Gen
eral Assembly.
CO-ORDINATE COLLEGE BILL
Seventeen Patrons Join in Meas
ure Providing College for
Women at University.
Tin* quickening of i!slegislative msl-j
I'hincry l?y the decision of the lower!
house to meet dally at 1) o'clock In the
i
morning, beginning Monday, a second j
message from Governor Stuart suggest- j
>'?tr Important new legislation; con-J
tinned high Interest in the Sims-Lilej
rivalry for the impending Supremcj
<"ourt vacancy: speculation on tlio
probable verdict of the committee In
vestigating the (|uallty of Senator Jor
dan's Democracy?these were the things!
that stood out prominently in the actiVi-|
ties of the General Assembly yester
day.
Moth houses adjourned early in the
afternoon, and many of the membersj
from near-by counties and cities left I
for their homes to spend the week-J
end Wlfh all standing committees ap
pointed and a schedule of committee!
meetings all but perfected and more)
than 100 bills awaiting attention, thnl
legislature will begin t to-morrow the!
real work of the session of lit 10. The!
initial work of organization Is com-'
plete. To-morrow the legislative mill!
will begin grinding.
??OVKHNtill riMi.i
Jin n to cci.mmi:m?
Iii his 3,000-word second message, ihoi
Governor touches sallcntly upon the'
conduct of the State departments and!
Institutions, finding much to commend
in the manner of their administration
and abundant
;n th? ir progre;
In his suggestions for new legisla-!
Hon, the Governor directs attention to!
some shortcomings that have beeiij
made evident to the Legislature in)
previous sessions and to other matters
that have more recently become th<
subject of public concern.
Difllculties encountered recently in!
extending prompt military assistance!
.it the time of the devastating fire tin-i
doubtedlv is the inspiration of thej
| Governor's recommendation that there'
should he a law giving the movement;
. of troops the right of way on rail-i
| roads when ordered out for active duty)
and providing fov adequate fines on'
j railroads which fail t<> comply with!
I such law.
The Governor advises serious con-'
jsidcratiop of the subject of farm!
credits, and recommends the appoint-j
mem of a commission to make a strdyi
j of the various systems of land mort-f
gage banks and other forms of rural
i edit with the view of devising a sys
tem th.it would l.e applicable to condi-1
* ions in t his St a te.
The failure of the General Assem
blies of 1M2 and lint to comply with
section 43 of the (Constitution, requir
ing that a reapportionment of the state
into senatorial and House districts,
shall be made in 1912 and every tenth,
year thereafter, leads the Governor to
'remind the present Legislature that
the duty ??f making this reapportion
ment rests against it this year with
' accumulated force
S I t AHT M AK |.;s SOUK
M il IK I \ t; ItIH llll IJ VTIO.VS
Othei recommendations advi.se the
enactment of a fair and reasonable
workiugmen's compensation act; the
.amendment of the road laws to gise
{local authorities wider powers; the es
tablishment of district poor farms; the
: erection of a Slate ofllee building; the
j construction of fireproof quarters in
which to sto:>- valuable manuscripts
i ;tt the State Library: the standardiza
tion of cAiini) and city accounting;
the regulation of the business of com
mission merchants, and the use of the,
preferential ballot in primaries.
I"nless there is a change from the
present sentiment, the question of the
successor to -Judge Keitli will be s?*t
i tied before th? end of this week. The
feeling is widely shared that legisla
tion will not proceed smoothly until |
this pie-'c ?.i business is disposed of. i
i A joint caucus will probably be called J
, the end of this week to make the j
nomination.
Stenographic repotts of the testimony I
introduced at the hearing held by the j
committee appointed to investigate the |
status of Senator Jordan, of Staunton,
have been supplied to tlta five members
of the committee to guide them in I
reaching a decision; None of the com- !
miltee members would comment on j
what has transpired in executive ses- ?
, sion, but the belief was prevalent in1
Capitol corridors yesterday that it will j
submit a report against admitting i
Senator .Ionian to the Democratic; eati-!
cur. A final decision in the matter j
will be reached this week.
('O-Oiti)f \ vti; roi.l.K<<K
mi.i. is i vrttoui < i;n j
Seventeen members of the House of'
Delegates afllxed their names as pa-1
irons of the bill providing for the es-j
tiihiishtnetit at the I'niversity of Vtr- 1
ginia of a co-ordinate college for the:
higher education of women. At two
preceding Legislatures the bill went!
down in defeat after stirring lights.!
This year the co-ordinate college sup
porters are back in force, with San
guine predictions for its success.
The bill, Introduced yesterday, is
sponsored by a number of the most
influential men In the lower house. Its
I signed patrons aie: Speaker Houston,
i Democratic Floor Leader Willis and
i Delegates Fuller, Myers, Clement, liob
; son, Love, Gordon. Mcetze, Cousins,
Murke, Birrell, Pitts, Williams, Jones,
: I'ence and I'age. The bill was referred
j to the Committee on Schools and Col
leges.
In Its general terms tho bill Is prac
tically the same measure that was of
forod at Hie last session. A lengthy
preamble recites the disabilities that
confront Virginia women who aeeU
(Continued on Eighth Page.)
FATAL EXPLOSION
ON U.S. SUBMARINE
Tlic K-t ami K-2 lyinc nlor.pside (lock In Hrooklyn just prior to
leaving for Norfolk to undergo tests, in They were the only
vessels of their rlass at that time fitted with wireless telegraphy.
RUSSIANS ABE REPULSED
ITU FRIGHTFUL LOSSES
Make Desperate Attacks Against
Austrian*, Charging in Serried
Line a Dozen Deep.
NOT AN" INCH GAINKD IS UKI'OKT
Montenegrins Determined to Make
Stand at Hleka, lint if Necessary
to Continue Hetreat and Concen
trate Defense at Scutari, Albania.
Only on the Itessaralii.'. n ami Hast
Galician fronts and in Montenegro have
there been recent military develop
ments of prime importance. The rapid
sequence of events in the .Montenegrin
campaign, involving the crumbling of
the little kingdom'* resistance, pre
sents perhaps the more dramatic aspect,
liut on a far larger scale and of greater
interest, for the moment at least. Is the
conflict being waged between the Aus
trian* and the Russians.
The Russian offensive, resumed In
force after a brief halt, apparently Is
being pressed with more determination
than before. Reports of the lighting
so far have come only from Vienna, but
these indh-ate that the attacks against
the Austrian lines were of a desperate
character, the Russians repeatedly
charging in serried line a dozen deep,
only lo lie repulsed ea eh time with
frightful losses, according t?? the Aus
trian otllcial statement. This report
adds that the attacks have not netted
the Russians an Inch of territory.
1 ti Montenegro, the Anstriatis, fol
lowing up their capture of Cetinje. are
pursuing the depleted forces of King
Nicholas, nnd have made additional
captures, The Montenegrins. according
to iiuorlicial advices, after transferrins-'
their capital to N'ikslc, determined to
make a stand at Rjeka. to the south
east of t'ctlnje, and, if necessary, to
continue their retreat southward and
concentrate their defense at Scutari,
Albania. In interior Montenegro, on
the eastern front of the lighting in
this field of war. the A list nans have
advanced from Reranc and taken thl
heights of <>radiiia, to the south.
The lighting along the l-'i .woo-1I?
gian lines has no! been of moment >in<-e
the opeiations in the < 'hatiipngne.
started by the (ierinan offensive move
ment there, came in a halt Artillery
engagements ami trench warfare, with
occasional aerial encounters, are the
only happenings that have recently
been chronicled in the otliciat .state
ments.
Around Saloniki, vv .here the entente
forces have been energetically prepar
ing themselves for the expected ad
vance of the Teutonic allies, there have
been additional defensive preparations
in the way of destruction of bridges.
A licrnian air raid on Saloniki, which
is declared to have been futile, is the
only notable incident reported.
Berlin reports opening of through
railroad service to Constantinople with
the departure of the first train from
the t'fcrmnti capital
A seniiotlieial statement issued iu
Berlin declares that Kinperor William
has completely recovered "from Ihe
slight indisposition caused by a car
buncle."
British losses iu oflicers during De
cetnber totaled ii.'!0, of whom were
killed. Total casual lies of oflicers
since ihe war began to the end of De
cember were L".',0S1 and the killed
ti.SI 7.
iu ssi \\s iti:n i s?',m --
VI.I, tl.UMi l,l\H
RKRI.IN, .lamiary I.', (by wireless to
Savville).? Russian attacks on the Aus
trians' positions in Kaslcru lialicia and
on the Bessarahian front are increasing
in intensity, the Kussians repeatedly
charging in mass, but the assaults all
along the line have been repulsed, ac
cording to tl illicial statement by the
Austro-11ung. ? War Olllce given out
to-day iu Vietl ...i^'.d received here.
The statement read
"The battle in Kastern (Salicia and
on the Bessarablaa frontier is proceed
ing. Kighting in the Toporotitz dis
trict anil east of Ma renczle is more
hitler than over.-- Itiissinu columns, of
us meiiy as twelve to fourteen lines
deep, attacked our positions at some
places four times and at others six
times, but the d-sp-jrate contests a I -
(Continued on Second l'age.)
TilK "CITY OK RICHMOND"
A n?>\v mid pnlnttiil steamer. affording nn
enjoyable overnight lrli> to HAl.TIMoftR
Kxcollent meal* Htitterooinn and private
baths. YORK KIVKH L1N10. Phone Mad. 2T:,
REJECTS NEUTRAL PROBE
OF BARALONC INCIDENT
i
(ieriunn.r, in Reply lo lirlllsli (iov
erinnent, ItrenU* OfT Xennti
ntions on Subject.
TO T.\KI<: REPRISAL MKASCRKS
Acrnst's Eitulnml of No Longer l>e
siring Co Observe Requirements of
Internntioniil I.aw in RegniHl to
i Submarines.
I'.KUT.TN*. January 1". (by wireless to
Sayville).? In its reply to the Urltish
Kiivcninii'iil in the Mai along: cast1, tlm
? t ox I of which was made public here
! to-day, tSoriuany takes the kioiiiiiI that
! Great ISritaiu no longer desires to ob
serve 'lie requirements of international
law in regard lo German submarines,
and breaks olt' liegot iutions on this
subject.
f in addition to announcing Its decision
to take measures of reprisal, as made
known yesterday, the German govern
Mii'iii t.-.loots Great Itritain's proposal
for examination by a neutral board of
the liarnlong incident. and also of
three cases in which it is rharned Ger
innny violated international law in sub
marine operations The note was de
livered to Great ilritain through the
A n.erica n embassy.
>ii:.\tio\s 'I'icitim iiik.vts
W ITHOI T ANY HVIIIKM'H
The German reply .*?? as follows:
"The F.ritish government answered
jthe German memorandum in the Barn
| Ions ease b> expressing doubts. on the
one band, of tin- coi red ness of the
facts I'oiniiiunli'.iti'il by the German
'government, and by making an aocu.-a
tii.ui, on the other hand, against Ger
j man military and naval forces of hav
ing deliberately committed countless
' erinivs against international law and
humanity which had been unpunished,
and compared with which tin; allotted
offense of the captain and crew of the
Karalong fades into i usig niflou nee,
The I'ritivh government has contented
itself with mentioning, without any
evidence, three incidents in connection
with naval warfare in which German
otlieors are alleged to have committed
.atrocities in violation of international
la w.
"The I'.rilish pivennnenl proposes an
investigation of these eases by a court
i oinposed of American naval olllcers.
t and under this couilitlon is ready to
i submit the I'.aralong case to the same
' court.
"Tlie German government protests
most sl-.arplv agains! the unprocodented
and unprovoked accusal ions of the
Critish government in regard !?> the
German army and navy, and the i-in
; putatiou that the German authorities
have not dealt with any such crimes
as have come to their attention. The
: tierman army and navy in this war ob
j serve the principles of international
law and humanity, and the higher au
thorities insist that ill the event of
fenses a re committed, they shall be in
vestigated most closely and punished
sternlv.
I \ SKS 'I'll Olt (H 4 .111. \
l\M:STI(i.\TKH 11% t i Kit V 1 N V
"The three cases mentioned bv the
ibiiisli KDVirnineni were investigated
thoroughl.v ai the lime b\ coinpi'tent
i iermau a ut hori t ies.
"First, in the ease .it the sinking
of tlie Arable !?> a (!erman submarine,
' ihe in % est iga t ion showed liiat the sub
marine commander was forced from
; circuinstaiiees lo draw the conclusion
that the steamer was attempting to
ram his craft, lie. therefore, believed
himself to be acting in justiciable self
defense when he attacked the ship.
"The second ease mentioned the at
tack of a (Senium destroyer upon a
? llritish submarine occurred in this
manner: A light developed in those
waters between two warships, in which
the submarine defended itself by gun
lire. The liritish government can have
little ground for advancing Ihe charge
that Danish neutrality was violated by
ihe tierman attack, in view of the fact
that llritish naval forces in a series
of cases attacked tierman ships in neu
tral waters.
j "Finally, in the case of the destruc
tion of the llritish steamer Unci, the
! German submarine merely applied
I measures of reprisal announced by
1 Germany in February, 101.'.. 'I'M wu
! measures are in harmony with infer
! national law, because Knglaml is <ti
i deavor.tig by illegal means to tie up
?the logltinw'e maritime conimerco i>e
(Contlnucd on Second F'age.)
i
FOUR IN KILLED;
AT LEAST THREE
OTHERS WILL DIE
E n 1 i s t c (1 Electrician and
Three Civilian Workers
Meet Death.
CRAFT WAS IN DRY DOCK
AT NEW YORK NAVY-YARD
Interior Apparatus Badly Shat
tered, but Outside Shows No
Sign of Disaster.
C.USK NOT YKT I)KTEUMINEI>
Naval Officers Load Itcscuc Parly,
but .\ro Overcome by (Jas
Fumes.
NKW VdltK, January l.Y?Four men
worn killed and ten others injured,
llvi> c f them dangerously. in an ex
plosion which occurred this afternoon
on tln> submarine R-2 while tlu> craft
was i:t-rtergolng repairs in ilry dock
at tho \e?v York Navy-Yard. <>no of
the men killed was an enlisted elec
trlci n, at.d 1?? other three civilian
workers. At least three of the ten
now In tho hospitals are not expccted
to live.
The dead:
It. fJ. Seaber, electrician, second class,
< 'levcland.
.lames IT. Peck, civilian, ccner.il
helpar, Brooklyn.
.1. ['. Schultz, civilian, machinist,
Brooklyn;
.lo<*ph T.ogan. civilian, general
i helper, Brooklyn.
Tlio Injured:
li. I- Miles, chief electr.lcian. rtrook
lyn.
Raymond Otto, electrician, Mldd'e
| burg, Mil.
tiny II. Clark. .Jr. Frankfort, N. Y.
Johii Holzy, llaltltnorc.
.fames Lyons, civilian.
Henry Zoll, civilian.
Otto Hasert. civilian.
Richard Ileyiu', civilian.
Michael Peyser, civilian.
Angus' Kapln, civilian.
|i-:r??\ii i-wtai, \rciiiK\T
IV IIISTOHY OF XAVY
Although the detonation was ter
rific. the submarine itself, from th??
out fid-, shows none of the effccts of
J the explosion, the second fatal icnl
, dent or its kind in the history of the
j ( nltcd States Navy. The interior ap
I para .ns was badly shattered, but so
tight was the vessel's shell that thero
I w:,s means of escape for pas which
accumulated, and it was more thnn
.in hour ajer tiie blast before the woric
ot recovinu the bodies could bo com
pleted .V ladder was blown up
through die conning- tower and tell
]."><? feet away.
i lie injured men and one body wero
moved soon alter the accident, but three
j bodies far down in the craft could not
) be reached until the gas had been
tdown out by compressed air. Soon
t after the ?-xploslon several naval of
llcers led a rescue party into the dry
| dock, bin were partly overcome by pas
fumes when they attempted to descend
into th<* vessel. It was then that com
j pressed air pipes were run into rhe
! shell and the ga> forced out.
I'iu* number ot' men inside the sub
marine at tiie time of the explosion Is
not definitely, known. About twenty
were working on the craft, but all of
tft< m were not on the under-water boat,
?it 'he same time. It is not thought
llbssibli; thai an> one who was inside
could have escaped injury.
f'U'SK of i:\ri.osio.v
M?T VK'r l>f-:'t'10ItMi.VKD
What caused the explosion has not
been definitely decided. Itoar-Admiral
N'a thaulel i: I,'slier, commandant of
tip- navy--card, after an examination
? ot the craft and questioning workmen
who had been near-by, declined to cx
piesS an opinion. He said;
"Tlio men were at work in the bat
tery compartment of the 12-? dlscharg
i11 tiit* in w Kdison butteries through
.i i liocistat to measure the voltage, and
tin- explosion occurred in that compart
ment while thej were working there.
The battery will generate no kind of
gus, and there was no pasoline on
?|oard. The engine was of the oil
btirtijhg Diesel type."
i'etniinc tiie appointment of an of
. flcinl board ot' inquiry by the
Xav> Department, Itear-Admiral I'sher
named a temporary Investigating com
i mittee as follows:
I?ieuit'iianit-Coiinnaiiiler I'ope Wash
ington, commander of tiie receiving
j ship Maine; Lieutenant L M Stewart,
ot' :lu- torpedo-bont destroyer McCuli,'
and Lieutenant Lush II. Fay, com
inaudei* of th?> submarine division tu
which the K-2 was attached,
ftniiirrri'.K ur.t. i\s
ff .\ KINO TKvmiO.XY
This committee immediately began
j to take tin- testimony of men working
around tiie K-2 when the explosion
occurred.
The opinion was expressed that the
) process of withdrawing the charge
from tiie butteries might have
caused the formation of hydrogen gas.
The explosions of that nature have
been frequent on submarines of all
navies, it was explained, and soveral
have occurred on American boats with
in the last few years. >?one of the
others was serious, however.
The Kdlsoti nickel hattcry, with
which the boat was equipped, expei,
