WEATHER
Arizona Snow north
rain couth.
MEM5ER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VNOZIHV 'XINSOHd
VOL. 18, NO. 199.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JANUARY 16, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
MARKETS f
NEW YORK CITY
Averace copper price VM U -
week ending Jan. 12 XES t
23.49. y
FMLIIIES
IV HEN E-2
MEETS
IN
Submarine Craft in New York
.' Navy Yard Blown Up from
Cause Unknown; Four Are
Killed; 3 Injured; 7 Hurt.
SPECIAL BOARD IS
INVESTIGATING CAUSE
Several Theories Are Advanc
ed; Under Sea Craft Was
Undergoing Repairs in Dry
Dock; Detonation Terrific
NEW YORK. Jan. 15. Four men
were killed and ten injured, five of
ihem dajgerously. In an explosion of
the submarine E-2 while the craft
a3 undergoing repairs in tiryuock at
the New York Navy Y'ard.' One ofj
the killed was a civilian enlisted elec
trician and other three civilian work
ers. At least three of the 'injured are
not expected to live. The detonation
was terrific but the vessel's shell was
so tight that the accumulated gas
could not escape for more than
iiuur DPiore ine ooaies were recover-j
ed. The case is unknown. Rear j
Admiral Usher, commanding the Yara.j
examined the craft' and questioned
the workmen but declined to ex
press an opinion.
The injured men and one body were
removed soon but " the bodies far
down were not renched until the gas
was blown out by compressed air.
Naval officers led a rescue party
into the drydock but were partly
overcome by tre fumes. The number
of men were at work in the vessel at
the time of the explosion is not known
definitely. Pending the appointment
of an official board of inquiry by the
Navy Department. Usher has named
a temporary committee to investi
gate. This committee began to take
testimony from workmen.
What caused the explosion of the
submarine E-2 probably will be un
known definitely until the special
board of naval officers appointed to
investigate completes its inquiry. The
first report said storage batteries in
tlie vessel caused trouble but later of
ficial information upset this theory.
According to navy regulations a
board was appointed consisting of
'Lieutenant Commander Pope, Lleuten
.ant L. M. Stewart and Lieutenant
Rush S. Fay. The board will meet
immediately Jo Investigate and re
port. Aside from the hydrogen gas
theory, submarine experts say they
known only two possible causes. One
is that the oil used to drive surface
engines exploded. There has never
been an accident of this character,
even on boats operated by gasoline
which is more explosive than the
heavy oil used in the engines of the
I2. .
a second possibility is that the air
flask exploded. The, flask which fur
nish the motive' power of the torpe-
does carry a pressure of 200 pounds
per square inch. The flasks are used
to store air which the submarine is
submerged carry less pressure. The
fact that the victims were burned
seemed to dismiss the possibility of
a flask exploding. It is learned that
consideration is being given by 'offi
cials to operating submarines by com
press.'d air while submerged.
OFFICERS TO RUSSIA.
NEW YORK, Jan. 15. Major James
R. Church, of the Medical Corps and
Capt. Marlborough Churchill, of the
Field Artillery, United States officers,
sailed for Liverpool whence they will
go to Russia to observe war condi
tions with the army.
BANKERS REPORT INCREASES
WASHINGTON, Jan. 15. An in
crease of more than eight million in
the resources of federal reserve banks
during the past week. Is shown In the
report of the banks' condition of Jan
uary 14. issued by the federal reserve
board.
FIRE IN CANADA
Qt'ESNEL, 13. C, Jan. 15. Fire last
night destroyed the Strand and Occi
dental hotels and stores of the John
Frszer Company and the Cowan Sup
ply Company, adjoining the structure.
Firemen blew up the Bank of British
North America with dynamite, thereby
stepping the snmad of the flames. The
loss was $2ri0,000.
;;ets the nm;:s;i
OFF TUKKISlI SOI!.
'V JS
K m
MOTORISTS COMING HOME. '
' - ":..!
! '
I
DEMING, N. M.. Jan. 15. The
return trip to Bisbee was strt-'
ed at 11:45 when the Bowen car j
left the Sheldon Hotel, the oth
er cars straggling la and some
will not leave El Paso for a day
or two. The Bowen. car reached
Deming at 5:50 and will be in.
Bisbee by dark tomorrow night,
barring accidents. Today's run
was 27 miles an hour and all
'cars averaging 25 miles. There
was a light rtin this morning '
but it cleared in the afternoon
the roads are line."
OLDS JURY STILL
UNABLE TD
AGREE
j
Case Submitted to Jury. After
"Twenty-four Hours of De-'
fi u m tr
uucauuu, i iuwcvci iiu y CI -,
diet is Returned.
TOMBSTONE, Jan. 15. (Special)-
The jury in the case of the State vs. - cliff, over which he said his wife fell , i nthe vicinity of Parral are expected)
Annie Olds is still out and from the'to her death while pursuing a pet dog.jto come out on the special train due
I r-i . u A AH ... t l : t .v, . F
nresent annenranreK It annenra
. , Ion October 29, the question of the le-
thougn they would not arrive at ai . . . , . . .
gality of Price's marriage was raised.
verdict. They went to supper af six counsei for the city contending that
o'clock this evening and then return- he had faied to divorce his firiit wife
ed to the jury room. They will. injand tnerefore wa9 not lPRany weaded
all probability, he held by Judge Lock-1 1 Mop PrM1ov
WOnd until Mnftrfnv nmrnlnir TVi a !
" ... ...V. UBk.p,. . S.V.
I IrtllTI H t WUt ilrtn.lV- (if Ik. o Ia .Ivai.
below. , 1
The defendant was placed on the
stand and related the story of the
shooting. She said on the afternoon
of the accident she had been engaged
in packing up her things to leave for
Douglas where she had some lots that
she intended to sell. She then intend
ed to go to El Paso and that Mr. Olds
was to join her. She said that she
had been in the kitchen washing the
dishes and same into the front room
and started to get the gun from the
foot of the bed to put it in her suit
case and as she raised up with the
gun in her hand it went off and the
bullet struk Mr. Olds, who was sitting
on the opposite side of the bed from j
her and that as the gun went off she
heard him groan. The witness de
clared she immediately rani out the
back door and called to Roy English
to get a doctor, that fehe had accident-'
ly shot Mr. Olds. She stated that;
she then went back to the door lead-!
ing from the kitchen to the front !
room but that there were several men
there with Mr. Olds and that she did'!
not go ia where they were but stayed '
in the door-way and later sat down
at the tabdle in the kitchen an re
mained there until after Olds had
died and was at that place when she
was jiiformed that he was dead.
i'he denied most of the statements
made by other witnesses and said the
story about her coming over to the
Hartman house after him with a gun
was because be was drunk and sh
wanted him home. She stated that
he was in the habit of drinking con
siderably and at times was very brutal
toward her. i
I'd until vestenlav Rhe had failed
to show anv signs of emotion over thedition from a wound inflicted by him
trial and the stories of how he died : splf when officers attempted to arrest
and the scene's VeHtet by the witness- j Barton Mallory and James An-
es of the shooting. Yesterday sheiChoIs, shot when they endeavored to
cried while sitin at the table. The
case wai concjuded early yesterday
(Continued on Page G)
PRICE FOUHDsTROUBLE
GUILTY OF
Minneapolis Business Man Is
Convicted in First Degree.
Sentence Postponed Until
Wednesday.
CASE HAS ATTRACTED
WIDE ATTENTION
Woman Who was Murdered
Scion of Prominent , and.
Wealthy Minnesota Family, j
Parner in Crime Confesses, j
MINNEAPOLIS, Jan. 15. Frederick
Price, the business man, who was con
I victed of the murder of his wife, Mary.
a member of a wealthy Minnesota fam
I
ily, was granted a stay' of sentence (.tacked and beaten a number of resi
until Wednesday, w hen the court will I dent Mexicans. General Pershing,
hear arguments for a new trial. (Commanding the troops here, a id he
, 1 The trial of Frederick T. Price on a' received nothing 'official, but heard
, charge of murdering his wife. Maryitbet rotdiers had engaged in fights
'.Fridley Price, began in the district , with Mexicans.
' court here on January 4. Theprosecu- Marion Letcher, the American con-
tlo'n charged that on the night af No-jJ'ul Ch'htwr-ua C'ty. will not leave
tl vember 28. 1914, Price, accompanied for his post today. He received a mes-
'by his wife and Charles D. Etcbfson, j spze from Washington countermand-
a traveling salesman of Washington, ing the previous instructions to pro
VD. C drove to a point along the Eastceed and ordering him to -remain on
River road where he brought bis auto-' he herder. The message he received
mobile to a halt and, seizing his wife,
' hurled her troy a high cliff.
It was further charged that Price,
; who was a locsl business man, went
fto the foot of the cliff and finding his
wife still alive, struck her upon the
bead with a rock. The statp charged i
j that the alleged act was committed for j
I, the purpose of inheriting a large sum:
of monev given Mrs. Price by herj that- the colonists, numbering about
father, David H. ' Fridley, a wealthy 'five hundred, will concentrate under,
pioneer after whom the town of Frid-, the protection of the Carranza garri-j
ley, Minn., is ranted. : . . j sons. Other Amer'c'isare said to be 1
Etchison, chief witnes for tin? pro-1 reluctant to leave Mexico where tbey i
secution, repeated on the w itness ( have property.
stand the substance of a confession; There1 is uncertainty here as to the.
be made early in December after his; number of men, under the alleged or-,
arrest in connection with the woman's i ders of Villa. General Trevlno. the'
death. He testified that Price prom-j Carranza comrrander, is quoted as say;
ised to cancel a note of $1,200 and in
addition pay him )3,500 if he would
accompany Vrirtt to the cliff and then
remain silent regarding the affair.
On March 22, last Price filed suit for
$7,500 damages against the city, charg
ing negligence in failing t0 provide a
fence g9 a guard at the edge of the i
," iuc i nine up iui nni in ,
'
Three days later Price withdrew the
damage suit. A warrant then was is
sued charging him with bigamy and
on November 12 he was taken into
custody. He pleaded not guilty.
An indictment charging first degree
murder wa3 returned by the grand Ju
ry December 1 and Price again was
arrested. On the same day a first de- j
gree murder indictment was returned i
I . . . . .. ..
against ttcnison wno was aimosi im-
mediately arrested in Washington, D. J
y:., ana reiurnea 10 Minneapolis, u ,
was while on his way to this city that
Etchison made the statement tG the
assistant county prosecutor charging
Price with the crime.
After the death of Mary Fridley
Price, his third wife. Price married
After the death of Mary Fridley I
Miss Carrie Olson of Minneapolis.
Because of the prominence of the
Fridley family and the social connec
tions of Mary Fridley Price the case
attracted wide attention.
GOETHALS TO REPORT.
PANAMA, Jan. 15. Goethals, gov
ernor of the Zone, is preparing to Is !
sue a statement relative to the condi- i
tion of the canal with special refer
ence to the re-ope:iing to light draft
vessels soon. Goethals Is said to have
named a special committee to study
the conditions at Gaillard Cut, where
blocked by the land-slide, and will
base his statement on the report of
the committee.
MURDERER NEAR DEATH
EL CENTRO, Jan. 15. A.L. Bell, a
blacksmith, who last night shot nnd
killed his wife, and wounded two men
who ran to her aid, is in a serious con-
wrest a revolver from Boll, are suffer
ing from flesh wounds. A quarrel is
said to have caused the shooting.
Hi
EAST" OF i
EL PASO !
! Soldiers From Fort Hancock
Reported to Have Beaten
Resident Mexicans Up uv
That Neighborhood.
CHIHUAHUA CONSUL
DOES NOT DEPART
Mormon Colonists Refuse to
Leave Mexico but Concen-:
trate Under Protection of ;
Carranza Garrisons. i
h PASO, Jan. 15. The sheriff re-1
ceived a report that some United
Stales soldiers from Fort Hancock,'
fifty-three miles east of here, had at-:
'as he was about to leave Juarez.
Ltcher said there was no significance
to the message and that he would sim
ply re-pain here until further orders.
The Mormons in Chihuahua state!
do not intend to come to the United
States in deference to the advices of
the UVifd States government. Mexi-j
can official., say they received advices
ing that only three hundred are not ,
captured. - Mexican officials In Juarez;
estimate there are at least eighteen ;
hundred. j
Several Americans are reported to I
hve returned to the interir of Chihu-'
hua on the train that left Juarez late
toady. Only a few of the foreigners!
lumum..
The funeral services over the bodies !
of the tw0 or three remaining victims;
of the tragedy will be held tomorrow.
C. n. Weston, manager of the Cusi'
Mining Company and wha was robbed j
of $1600 by the bandits before he was
killed, will be buried here. The par
ents of R. P. MacAtoon are here to
take the remains to California tomor
row. HALL WAS ENGLISHMAN
DOUGT.AS. Jan. 15 Alexander Hen-
derson Hall, one of the victims of Mon
day'g massacre, was a British subject,
according to Alexander Baird, Jr., the
. i t i : .i ij . i. . .
unusn vice-consm. omiu iu in
port was sent to the British vice-con-
fui hi ci raw.
Baird said Hall had only taken out 1
Ms first papers as an American citl-,
ten, and was under the protection of.
the British crown at the time of htsi
death. The evidence will be forward-.
ed to the British embassy in Washing- officials as being little .more interest
ton. Hall's body arrived here and was; ing.' That which purports to have
viewed by hundreds. The funeral will j been between von Papen and Werner
be held tomorrow under the auspices j Horn is eagerly awaited, however, as
of the Masons. 1 possibly being a link in the chain of
j evidence which government agents
NO TROUBLE AT HANCOCK ; have collected regarding tbe attempt
FI . PASO. Jan. 15. Telegrams from ed destruction of the railway bridge
Fort Hancock declared there were nolat Vanceboro. Maine. Ia the files of
riots of importance and everything 1 the State Department is all data col-
was quiet of late
Potter Palmer, preselected by agents of the Department of
irtent of the Cusi Mining Company, of
Chihuahua, eighteen of whose employ
es were victims of the santa Ysabel
massacre, arrived from New York. eiehteen months.
Palmer declined to discuss his mission j on the surface the officials express
but it is reported he wanted to inves- surprise at suggestions that von Pap
tigate the situation personally. Pn or Boy-Ed were under surveillance
. I in this country after the outbreak of
1 war because such action would hard
, j ly be in keeping with diplomatic usage
BUY AT HOME.
On page six, second section of
this morning's Review will be
seen the first of a six week's
campaign of "Buy at Home."
There Is something or value In
every inch of the page to every
reader of The Review. Read
-nd think It over!"
.1
PREDICT MRS. MOHR WILL BE FREED
J' J'-' j
:'
-
y ' Ft 11
' ' ' II
, v. m ' J X
f p fr 1 C1
Mrs. Elizabeth ,' T. Mohr. Bottom, left to right: Henry Spellraan. Cecil
t Victor Brown and George W. Healia.
Mrs Elizabeth T. Mohr is on trial at Providence," R. I., charged with
procuring the murder of her husband on August 31 last. It is generally
Relieved that she will be acquitted. Co-defendants with Mrs. Mohr are two
ncjrroes, Cecil Victor Brown and Henry Spellman. George W. Healis. Dr.
Mt.hr's chauffeur, who was arrested' but turned state's evidence on promise
of immunity, lo the state's chief witness.
UNITED SHIES
CALLS fiUER
"
General View Expressed that
Withdrawal of von Papen
and Boy-Ed Ended Ameri
can Interests in Plots.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 15. Disclos
ures of alleged activities of German
j neents in the United States cpntalned
i in papers seized by the British from
j Captain von Papen. while command
! ing intense interest, have brought no
' indication of official notice. The gen
eral view is that the United Slates
practically closed the Incident when
cauea tor tne wnnarawai or von
Papen, colleague of Captain Boy-Ed.
Much of the correspondence cabled
this country Is looked upon by most
Justice secret service operators and j
' fttku.d t 1 1 . i V. i . t almnot n ' r r .Itairiul
IJV 9 IUU1 IIMI). llllll..-ll T , . 1 nil. .LU
war plot in this country in the last
j The Stale Department records, how
I ever. ire said to reveal that the acti
i vities of both were known to the gov
! ernment in detail.
Payments by Captain von Papen to
jlwo persons charged with playing im
' portant parts in tbe activities of Ger
man agents in the United States were'
disclosed by further examination of
documents In the British governments
possession. The bank books show
that checks were given to Paul Koeniglarge sum
FEARFUL
OF
u
Member of Naval Advisory
Board Declares That Ag- i
- r i j . !
gression from Abroad is the ,
Danger After the War.
NEW HAVEN. Jan. 13. That the j
danger of foreign aggression confronts:
the United States when the war is ov-
er no n atter who wins. Hudson Max-:
im. a member of the naval advisory,
board, declared in an address before
the Chamber of Commerce. He appeal
ed for a -larger army and navv and de -
clared that any of the great foreign
nations would "have for available ser-(
vice a million trid veterans for trial,
at arms with the-'United States." j
' He said there were sure to be com-;
plications between the Unitpd States!
and the" winners at the end of the war.
M
have a navy far superior to ours, con-1 volunteer trai-.iing ca:np for the in
sequentlv thev could not successfully "'ruction. t summer, of citizens ,n
. . . w ' i i naval routine and dicipnne. The
be opposed by our navy. he said. I , . , K . ,.
, . . , movement is under stood to be in lue
.Our enemy would be able to land on i , . . , , , ... . ...
. ,. : with the plan to establish a framing
our shores at least , a quarter m lion .. . , . .
, .. . . ' . . : camp on the Great Lakes near Chi-
men inside a month. After that they. ., , u , v., v..
.... . . . i cago which is approved by the Nay
could bring reinforcements at the rate rkparUiwnt
oi n.-.quarier minion a piomn, u
quired. Our little, poorly' equipped ar-
my woum De unaoie to oner oniy re-; n,OVement. pledged the petitioners to
sistance enough to make a ripple in;obtain re-ruits. yatchs and molor
the line of the enemy's advance. Our; 5,,3 in accor,i un ay plan devised
army would be about one good day's bv the NaTy Department. The state-
i killing." j nient issued by the committee said
j The speaker declared that if the en-1 that hundreds of officers and men
t emy landed, in New York or Boston . should vitally form the second and
if could capture the area where the. third li le of defense, under condi
' great arsenals, navy yards and muni-'tions of modern naval warfare: that
I tions factories were located in , two England's defense asainst the sub
weeks. ; marine shows that motor boats, car-
' j rying guns, proved the most omport-
! head of the police service of the Ham-1 ant unit of the second line, in co-burg-American
Line, who is under ar-j operation with aeroplanes was the
rest In New York: Hans Adam von-most effective weapon asainst the
Wedcil. who has been indicted in New f submarines' attack.
York charged with conspiracy. Ko-
1
nig is credited, with having received
several checks for large sums,:
The
books show receipts by von Tapen for
from "Bernstorff."
REPLY HOT
HAD AS
-YET
Though First ChieF s Answer
to Demand that Bandits Be
Punished Has Not Arrived
Officials Are Confident
ARRENDONDO INSISTS
i MEXICO IN GOOD FAITH
General Trevino's Special Re
port Does NoJ State Any
thing in Regard to Alleged
Escort of Carranza Soldier;.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 15.-The Car
! ranza reply to t'u deu-and of the
i United States for the punishment of
! the bandits who killed eighteen near
t Santa Ysabel has not reached Wash
i ington, but officials are not inclined to
! doubt the good faith of the assurances
of Arrendondo, the ambassador desig
nate, that every effort will be made to
capture the murderers. These assur
' ces were renewed iy Arrendondo in
making public the report of General
Trevino commanding the forces de
tailed to capture the bandits and in
sure protection in the district where
j the bandits have been operating. The
j day passed without a repetition of the
i outbursts of indignation in Congress.
Chairman Stone of the Senate for-
1 eign relations visited Lansing knd
asked that the committee be advised
- of receipt of further information. The
secretary promised this would be done.
General Trevino's report described the
massacre as follows:
"Monday a special train left Chihua
hua, After arriving at Fort Kilometer,
I sixty-eight milws west of San'a Ysalll
1 it was found that another train was
j derailed. Upon the persons alighting
! from the train to see what had occur
red they saw armed men o nboth sides
of the road, who began firing upon
them.
j "The so-called general, named Rey
! na. ordered the crew under guard. He
robbed the passengers, looted the con
I tents of the cars of express. The mur
I ders followed.
i "The same day general headquarters
ordered a regimet to start for Santa
j Ysabel with instructions to pursue the
j bandits. The bandits observed the
i movements of the Constitutionalists
' and retreated to Carretas. They then
scattered in small groups west and
1 south, presumably in the direction of
: the mountains of Durango. If informa
; tion to obtain new bands, they will be
hunted down to prevent concentra-
: Hon -
T,!e report says the garrisons, at
many points in that section were in-
errni an e(Tort wiI1 n;ade t
compel the bandits to disperse or flee
to the western slopes of the Sierra
Madre. .where they will be unable to
find sustenance. Officials denied the
published statements that the State
department had secured the issuance
of Sife conducts for the Americans
killed. The president received a mes-
sage from Congressman Kent of Cal-
! ifornia- Partner of the company that
; "PV of the Santa Ysabel
victims, urgiug against intervention.
NEED NAVAL RESERVE.
NEW YORK. Jan. 1".. The naval
reserve committee of the Navy League
has undertaken the effort to establish
the North Atlantic coast a naval
A petition to the Navy Department,
drawn ud bv the nromoters of the
Future .Vhieriran battleship will be
able t osurvive the explosion of a sin-
gle torpedo, regardless of where they
'are struck, say naval experts.
