I MAIL8 ,
From San Francis:
h Matsonla. Feb. 23.
For San Francisco:
Great Northern, Feb. 26
From Vanoouver:
Makura. Feb. 23.
For Vancouver:
Niagara, March 3.
Evening Bulletin. Est. 1882. No. 6406
16 PAGKS-HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1916. 16 PAGES
PRICE FIVE CENT3
Hawaiian Btar. vol ajuu, o. 4i
Makura. Feb. 23. II JL gLl L I VJZ W Z C C VXA C yv L zL V 4 Y S 1 fl 71 if flffnTTl II
'J:
. ' ; l
-.
' - - ' - ' ; : ' : : t- .. . ' ., . . , . - I ;-..'-' I .
Would Make Hawaii t W on
CALWl WAII
; INTRODUCES BILL
IN LOWER HOUSE
Measure Forbids Manufacture
- or Sale of Intoxicants After
' ; Date Specified
MOVE MAY BE RESULT
OF OR. WADMAN'S WORK
Superintendent of Anti-Saloon
League Went to Washington
to Support Prohibition
( Special BUr-BaIltla CiU
WASH1NGTON, D. CV Feb. 24
' Representative Randall of Canfornia
yesterday Introduced In the house of
representatives a bill . for prohibition
In the territory of, Hawalj. i
Under the terms of j this bill, the
'manufacture or sale of Intoxicants is
forbidden after January 1f 1917. Drae
tlo penalties are provided for viola
tions of the. proposed law.
.The bill was referred to the commit
tee en territories. ? .
C. 8. ALBERT.
Anti-Saloon league members -were
not certain today whether or not the
bill Introduced by Representative Ran
dall Is that for which Dr. J. W. Wad
man, superintendent of the: league,
' went to Washington a few weeks ago
to support While the Gronna bill,
providing for prohibition In Hawaii, Is
before Congress, it was ft here that
a. stronger measure might be success
fully advocated, and Dr, Wadroan went
to Washington ' prepared to laupport
such a bill. It is thought probable
that the action of Representative Ran
dall is a result
Congressman Charles Hiram Randall
Is a Prohibitionist and was elected to
Congress at, the last California elec
tion after receiving, nominations both
by the Prohibitionist and Democratic
parties. His home 1s in Los Angeles
and he is. a newspaper editor and pub-'
iiaher.-;;;-;-;.;; r: -r
.(rnTTirfl'V
uitiiiJiiL 1
r S !
liJ IIOi.'OLULU'S
'-L
Mayor-
Advocates More Amuse
ment Features for Tourists
n.n II I . . -
- ana deuer nignways
Mayor Lane is enthusiastic over the
success of the Carnival una year.
"This is the best Carnival we've
ever had." saya the mayor. 'The pub
lic la Imbued with, the Carnival spirit
as it never has been before. Every-
one is entering, thoroughly Into the
spirit of the thing. The directors and
"'the men who are managing tne auier-
. ent events certainly deserve a great
deal of credit .
"Aud the tourists! In all the years
that I liave lived here I have never
seen so many of them. In previous
years one might hear a great deal
about the number of strangers" in
town, but one never 6aw them. Toduy
yon can't walk a block without pasa-
. ing tourist. They are everywhere
at the theaters, in the cafes, at the
parks, wherever you go. It was never
v that way before.
'Honolulu has what she has been
working for for years a big influx
of - tourists. Now the problem la toJ
keep tnem coming nere. me cnuw
time is right now. Keep them coming
while the war is on and they have few
other places to go to. and will con
tinue to ' come .here from preference
when Europe is again open to them.
"Let them carry back good reports
. of the islands and their friends. will
. come here. -Make -them comfortable
A man who lives in 'comfort at home
wants comfort wherever he goes.
Keep the big boats the only ones the
best class of tourists will travel on
on this run, Local business men who
profit by the" tourist trade could easily
guarantee the Great Northern the 1500
tons of freight that Is asked if they
would club together. .
If we are 16 hold the tourist trade
and T take It that everyone in Hono
lulu does want to hol4 it we must
provide amusement tor the people
who come here.. ,
The beaches, must be improved.
Tea houses and resorts of a like char
acter must be established near the
mountains, and then roads that can
be traveled over must, be laid put so
(Conttrve on pB two)
FORSALE
A 5-passenger car and road
gter In good condition: TeL 3230.
HISTORY
IE
NEW YORK STOCK
MARKET TODAY
Followlno are the dosinfl prices of
stocks on the New York market to
day, sent by the Associated Preas over
the Federal Wireless:
Yester-
-. Today " day.
Alaska Gold . . . . . ... .... 22'4 222
American Smelter . ..... 100 100H
American Sugar Rfg 112s 112'
American Tel. A Tel.... 127J2 127
Anaconda Copper 87H 85?a
Atchison ............... 10354 103J2
Baldwin Loco. ....... 4- 107t 109
Baltimore A Ohio....... 86H 96H
Bethlehem Steel ....... 470 470
Calif. Petroleum . ...... 28 V 30
Canadian Pacific ...... 168'4 169
C M. & St P. (St Paul) 93!2 94
Colo. Fuel A Iron 44 45
Crucible Steel ..... .... 78 79
Erie Common 35ft 36
General Electric ....... 169ft 170
General Motors ..... . . . 479 480
Great Northern Pfd..... 120yB 121
Inter. Harv, N. 1. ...... 109 110'4
Lehigh R. R... ........ 7V2 77'A
New York Central...... 104',4 104ft
Pennsylvania .......... 57'8 57
Ray Ccrnsol. ............ 25 25
Southern Pacific ....... 99i 992
Studebaker ............ 144 1462
Tennessee Copper ...... 57 58'
Union Pacific .......... 133', 2 134 -
U. 8. Steel ............ 82ft 83
U. 8. Steel Pfd........; 116'2 116ft
Utah .................. 84 4 85
Western Union ........ 88"8 88'2
Westlnghouse 65 ' 66' ,
Bid.
GILL TO RETIRE
Senator Coke's Activity at Na
tionaf . Capital Helps to Get -
: : Favorable Report , C
WASHINGTON, D. C- Feb. 24
The bill retiring United States judges
In Hawaii under the -tame regulation
as those In the states was favorably
reported to the house today by the
judiciary committee. - ?
C 8. ALBERT. -
That the house is taking action on
this bill is largely due to the efforts
of Senator James L. Coke of Oahu,
who is in Washington on i business.
Coke's Interest in seeing the measure
considered helped to get it reported
out of committee.
In a !etter received by Judge A. A.
Wilder, who saw that the bill was in
troduced 'and gave it a flying start
when he was , in Washington some
weeks ago. Cnke tells bow the measure
is progressing.
' He modestly claims no credit' for
himself, but relates that he found the
bill in a sort of comatose state in the
judiciary committee. He then saw the
chairman, of the committee and ar
ranged for an early hearing of the bilL
It became necessary to draw a new
bill, and he and Judge S. M. Ballou.
the planters' representative, drew it
and helped to get a favorable report
from a subcommittee of the Judiciary
committee. .
W is this till which will provide for
the , retirement on salary of Federal
Judge Dole, and it is supported gener
ally in Ha wait The terms of the new
bill have already been published here.
Federal judges will retire on - full
salary. - - - .;- - ; .
Senator Coke in Washington and
Judge Wilder here are continuing
their activities and expect the house
to pass the measure shortly.
S. C. HUBER ENJOYS
TRAVEL, SO HE IS TO
BE U. S. ATTORNEY
Now Hawaii may know why S. C
Huber of Tama, Iowa, wants to be
U. S. district attorney for Hawaii
When the Star-Bulletin's Washington
correspondent cabled the tip that Hu
ber had the inside track for the fed
eral job, everybody wanted to know
who Huber was and why he should be
chosen. The secret is told by the Star
Clipper, a newspaper of the town of
Traer, Iowa. Here is the Star-Clip
per a explanation:
"It seems pretty well settled at this
date that S. C. Huber of Tama is to
get the appointment of district attor
ney for Hawaii. This is a job he has
sought as he enjoys travel and does
not need the money. A lot of others
sought it too, but Mr. Huber's claims
and qualifications both were so for
midable he was considered a likely
winner from the start We consider
the appointment one of the best the
democrats ever made In Iowa. Huber
is a conscientious, .high-minded and
broad-minded fellow, an able lawyer, a
perfect gentleman. He has in a politi
cal way earned the. job twice over.
With little or no hope of success he
has repeatedly made political fights
to uphold the party. :
FEDERAL JUDGES
IS IIECOIIFIED
BILLY SUNDAY
WON'T FOLLOW BROWN-CURRY
"Baseball Evangelist" Writes Inter-Church Federation Point
ing Out His Settled Policy
Billy Sunday, the "baseball evangelist," Is not coming to Honolulu to
conduct a revival this summer, or at any early date.
This is the reply the noted evangelist has made to the Inter-Church
Federation,-W.-A. Bowen receiving the letter in the last mail. In this letter
Sunday makes it plain, that his policy is not to follow any other evange
lists, and that the Brown-Curry meetings recently held tere come within
thiB policy. His letter Indicates that It is primarily because' these meet
ings were held that he declines to cone at any early date.
In correspondence with Sunday it has been pointed cut that the Brown
furry meetings were conducted largely as preparation for Sunday's coming.
A letter has gone forward from the federation in answer to Sunday's re
fusal, but no hope Is expressed that, he has changed his mini As soon as
" the Inter-Church Federation holds a meeting it is expected that a definite
statement giving alt the facts and perhaps the correspondence will be is
sued. - v ' '
It is understood that Sunday feels that he cannot obtain the best re
sults by-following other evangelists. . . r '
GILBERTRiS
9 4-5
Co'rored Sprinter Makes New
'Mark in Century Run This ;
Morning . .
ST0IC0FF DiFEATS
: - CHAMPION WRESTLER
RSSKX'I If M
First finals bf military meet at
Alexander Field tomorrow morn--f
ing at 9 o'clock. , - v
f Wrestling, 135-150-pouna ; ciass
Wgphmldt 4th Cavalry, r vs.
f Scales, 25th Infantry.
150-165-pound class work-,
man. Hospital Corps, vs. Getts,
.lst Infantry.. ; - :,.'rv. t" !
lfl5-190-DoundT? -"eiass Stoicorr. t-
f 1st -Infahtry. vs. . Vyloski, 2d In-
4- fantnr. . '- : , '. v - -t-
4- ' Tug-Of-War 1st Infantry vs. 2d
Infantry for, first K place In finals, -v-
4- 25th Infantry , vs. Coast Artii-
4- lerv .for third place. In finals. j. i 4-
Running In- perfect form five yardB
ahead of the field; Pvt Gilbert of the
25th Infantry made the fastest time
for the 100-yard dash ever recorded in
Hawaii, when he breasted the tape in
a burst of speed in 9 4-5 seconds. This
mark equals the army record, although
no official records are kept
This race was the banner one of
the . day in 'the preliminaries of the
military athletic meet at Alexander
field this morning. Gilbert was out of
the holes fast and showed a burst of
speed as he arose In - the first few
strides. He took the lead from the
start and was running in pretty form
After the 50-yard mark; was reached
the 25th representative seemed to in
crease his speed with every stride
and hurled himself into the cord five
yards ahead of Smith,' 1st Infantry,, in
9 4-5 seconds.
Lieut. Schneider, Pepin and Martin
were the timers and two of the watch
es caught the colored flyer in the re
corded time; i The other watch show
ed 9 3-5 for the distance. Gilbert is a
great sprinter, and, although many be-
leved that the time was too fast still
the' watches recorded the time .under
even mark, and it is certain that the
cinder path expert is at all times
close to a flat runner.
He Runs Like Morae. ;
Gilbert's form closely resembles
that of Morse, the colored runner who
was last year's national champion in
the furlong. . He has a long stride, and
gets away fast off the mark. His first
ew strides are carefully taken and he
rises up for his spurt ; in excellent
form. ' Gilbert is destined to be the
favorite In the finals, despite the fact
00 YARDS IN
SECONDS
K S W. ' S
4-
that Mills is picked by many to finish
ahead in the century. .
Mills, who is the present champion
of the service, was pushed by Bray of
the 1st Infantry in the 220-yard run.
Rounding the turn the 25th man and
Bray. were running together. At the
100-yard mark Mills wa leading,' but
In the last 40 yards Bray made a great
finish and Mills breasted the tape less
than cne yard to the good, i The time
as announced was 22.4, which ahould
be lowered in the final event f Van
Pelt of the 2d Infantry was third, with
Hereof of, the Coast Defense, fourth.
Were Many Favorites.
Spectators lined the fields as the
sprint events were run off and each
one had a favorite in the field Mills
naturally was picked as a star by
many of the .athletic fans, but both
Bray and Gilbert had many friends
who expected them to finish in the
lead. . Mills and Gilbert should fur
nish a great race in the sprints. They
are 1 both; about the same size and
have an abundance of speed. Of the
two speed burners, Gilbert showed
the best form today, and in the shorter
distance should breast the tape up
with the present champion. '
The 25th Infantry had another op-
, ; (Continued on page elgnt) .1
i: -: si. si si wrwi -
January 1,:1WM
ISN'T COMING;
Pacific Mail Under New Control
to Run Steamers to Cen-.
tral America
ANOTHER UnFtO RUN
FREIGHTERS ON PACIFIC
(AisMUUd Ptsm T Federal Wlnleti
SAN FRANCISCO, CaU Feb: 24.
The Pacific Mali Steamship Company,
now under the joint control of the
American International Corporation
and W. R. Grace ; Company, has
bought the sister ships Venezuela, Co
lombia and Ecuador from the Royal
Dutch West IndA-Mail line for f 4.000,-
000.' s ..V ;- ; . k
The vessels will .be run to Central
American and JPanaina potts', it is' an
nounced. .Two'., additional ' ships will
be secured later. All will be placed
under American-, registry. ' ' '
iAsaocUitad Trtut br Tedtval Wtrelel
JEW YORK. N: Feb. 24,--A new
steamship company is being lanncbed
here which will put ; part- of a big
fleet in the Pacific trade. The com
pany Is the Gaston, Williams & Wig
more Steamship; Corporation, "and its
fleet will be composed of 18 tteamers.
It is organized to operate both in the
AUaritic and the Pacific' .
On the Pacific its vessels will be
mostly freighters, plying between San
Francisco and China, Japan and Vladi
vostok. - :; " i.-. ' .. .
a ; Sweden has ' no intention- of per
mitting Germany to Mosa the great
European war, even if she is forced
to 'fight; against Germany's enemies,
lays a Copenhagen paper. : She may
Lot insist upon a complete victory by
Germany, but her own ' security de
mands that Russia doea not come out
victorious. Since Swedish history be
gan, the Swedes - have been fearing
that Russia may attempt to gain an
ice-free - harbor on tne Scandinavian
coast 'This, can be. accomplished at
the expense of Norway and in order
to reach Norway, Russia haa to cross
Sweden. Sweden believes that with
her well-trained army of 1,000,000 she
can turn the scales of war. This army
is well drilled and. equipped, and
would march on St Petersburg
tcrougb Finland, wnere Sweden ex
pects to find considerable assistance.
while the Germans .- would advance
from the south. : What stand Norway
vould . take, cannot now be foreseen.
The Norwegians sympathize with
Great Britain on account of sentiment
and their close business connections. H
Furthermore, they fear the depreda
tions of the British navy. All this Is
true of the working people only. Other
classes, among them the officers, are
pro-German throughout ' It may be
assumed that the Norwegians may
have to take that side in the great
war, on wmcn sweaen wm go, ror oo
vious political reasons; especially if
Sweden should , direct her energies
against Russia. Norway has approxi
mately 400,000 well drilled troops.
TO HOLD DISCUSSION
OF NATIONALITY BILL
(Special Cable to Hawaii Shinpo.)
TOKIO, Feb. 24. Some amendments
have been made by the committee of
the house of peers, having fn Charge
the consideration of the hill of nation
ality which passed the chamber of dep
uties, and wmcn provides for free
cholce to American born Japanese
whether or not they shall be subjects A.
of America or Japan." The amended ' S
bill will be discussed In the house of 1
peers tomorrow,
TWO NEW FLEETS GERMAN ATTACH
SAYS SWEDEN IS
FREDERICK WILLIAM,
' CROWN PRINCE. HEAD
OF GERMAN OFFENSIVE
EARLY YESTERDAY
Official Cablegrams Show Ar
tillery Preparation Made
for Present Battle.
That the German attack ' on : Ver
dun, the biggest war move on tht
west-front since the Allies attack at
Loos and Lens, was begun in force
yesterday and preceded by. terrific
bombardment is told. in official Ger
man- cablegrams rec'eWedJ -. .- v-S'.-w
T-.i-vi YESTERDAY'S REPORT ;
German Headquarters, Feb. 23.
Blasting east of Souchez, near trench
es conquered by us on February ; 21,
considerably damaged the French po
sition: T The number of our prisoners
at this place is now 11 officers and
348 soldiers and three machine, guns
have been' taken.' 4
. .."Artillery combats are going on at
the Meuae! heights s with unlessened
force.. East of the Meuse the Germans
attacked positions near Consenvloye
and Arannea, vyhieh the French for the
last year and a half had fortified with
all the means' In their power to In
fluence German communications in the
northern war theater. The German
attack along a front of 10 kilometers
advanced three kilometers deep. Be
sides heavy losses the: enemy lost
more than 300 prisoners and numerous
was material.: :V '
"In- -upper Alsace the: Germans .at
tacked, west of Heidweiter, an enemy
position 700 meters long and 400 deep,
conquering it about 80 prisoners being
taken. : f
,V"ln numerous air fights beyond the
enemy's front German air craft had
the best of it, today," '
AssocUUd Ptmi by rdU Wlralm .
PASSAIC, N. J., Feb. 24. Two hun
dred and forty people were made des
titute and homeless today by a disas
trous fire. A public subscription has
been started for them.; : '
'. , AJfocUted Prtu ty TdrI Wlrtltti
BERLIN' Germany, Feb. 24 Ad
miral ven Pohl, commander of the
German battle fleet, died today.
SATURDAY EVENTS TO
BEGIN EARLIER THAN
; STATED ON PROGRAM
KK J? a J M & S g. S. I?
k -. ' v;:-:'.::-;!-.:-;-'--V"-. -'::- s
In order to assure prompt seat- '
; ing of the bi? crowd .which will
V. attend . the, waterfront pageant
tt and fireworks: display Saturday
evening, the . Carnival officials a
m have decided to change slightly a
S the time of the other features to
g be held during the day. The Boy
5 Scouts rally will begin half an
6 hour earlier, at 9:30 o'clock in-
K stead of 10 o'clock in the morn- M
' 6f In? on1 tliA aiitnmh?ta nnoa tt
will begin at 1 o'clock instead f
- 2 o'clock M the afternoon. '
S . .-. r , - : g
SIS 3 2 1 III? si Sis a
PASSAIC FIRE
DESTROYS HOMES
KflTEDMAN
FEARFUL LOSS ON WEST FfiOIff
AS TEUTONS AND F RENCII flET;
PORTUGAL r,llG ip WOUES
THIRTY-SIX INTERNED GERMAN AND AUSTRIAN VESSELS
AT LISBON SEIZED BY NAVAL AUTHORITIES SENATOR
GORE AGAIN TRIES TO GET CONGRESS TO DECLARE
AGAINST AMERICAN TRAVEL ON BELLIGERENT VESSELS
TO RENEW EFFORTS TOMORROW
Associated Press Service by Federal Wireless. " '
LONDON. England. Feb. 24. -Half a million or more men arc
engaged txlay in the niot furious battle of the year, along more thatr
a score of miles of front in the Verdun district. , j-j '
Kaiser Wilhflm lias established his headquarters on this section of,
the western front. Terrific battling with great forces is iiv progress,
with the Germans endeavoring to smash through the French lines atu!
get Within artillery distance of the fonnidable fortress of .'Verdun.
The artillery exchanges which precede the infantry attacks are tre
mendous, huge masses of metal. !eing thrown at ; the opposing trvnches
After every preparation the infantry -is called 'on in great immltrs;tq
storm or to counter-attack. : : -4 :!; 'U'i
The Gernian army of 250000 is led , by the German crown princl', ;
Frederick William; who Ls in command on this -portion pit-the wesflinc ! '
Twenty-five miles of; the French line, extending1 on Iwth sides of Ver- '
dun, but principally to the northeast, are involved in the big JiatOc,'
which is the first major war move on the west since the Allies took th;
offensive in the Lens and Loos sections. ' :
The French assert this afternoon that the German advance na
been checked eight miles from Verdurv :
I5FRLIN, Germany, Feb. 24.Furthcr German gains have been,
made today in the region north of Verdun. The entire wooded district
northwest and northeast of Beaumont, the forest of Herbe, the villages
of Hamont, Brabant and Somagneux
tured. : :.' : -; .,;'; - v
PARIS, France, Peb- 24 J The. capture by the Germans of thevilt
lage of Brabant, northeast of Verdun and on the newly active Hrie U
admitted today in the official government announcement. ; Y -
The announcement declares that the attack '.of the Germans at So--magneux
and Beaumont was repulsed,5 and that the French lines have
not been broken at "an. point.' ; ' ; - '
. PARIS, France, Feb. 24. -A; French airship scruadron has bom
barded the Gennan station at Metz. ; A great fire is observed there;
,'.. ' ''" ' I -- 4; 1
Zeppelin Commander, Pen:!:h j, . .:
'LeavesiMe
; ' . ; f Associated, Presg Service by ;FederaI Wireless. ';.',)';:
LONE)ON, England, Feb. 24.Four messages . from; . the cojn
mandeir of the German Zeppelin L-19, wrecked in the North Sea, r&e
been found in a bottle, which was floating in the sea, addressed to tlie
commander's parents; wife and children. The first message was writ
ten while the; Zeppelin was 100 meters in the, air. ; This message said
that the engines had stopped and the great craft was droppings The
last message was that the airship had dropped into the sea and tSe
crejv were drowning. - '...'..'. ' '-t
PETROGR.D, Russia, Feb. 24.Czar Nicholas has gone to fac
east front. ; . .;;".v.'v ' ',' ; ;
Gore Persists in His
: . r Associated Press Service
; WASHINGTON. D. C. Feb.
tempt in the upper house today to get Congress on record as opposmg
American travel on vessels of the belligerents. 1.
- - He sought' to introduce under "unanimous consent' a resolution
expressing" that it shall be the sense of Congress that Americans should
not travel on armed belligerent vessels. This differs from his previ
ous bill because it does not require, the approval of the president.
It seeks to remove the cause for , war by; guarding against injury
i 1 ' ' . . u .11: i -7- . '
io any American on a ucingcrcni vessel. .
. Senator Brandegee, Republican, objected to the resolution, arid un
der the seriate rules shut the proposal out. Senator Gore will try to
introduce the resolution again tomorrow. . ! ;
German Prize Crew Smlt Yestburn
rAacoclated Press Service by Federal WIrelesa -
LONDON, England, Feb. 24. Further, details have been learned
here of the capture of the British steamer Westburn, from Liverpool
for Buenos Ayres, by a German commerce raider, presumably the
Moewe. After the German prize crew aboard the Westburn had taken
the steamer nearly to Santa Cruz, Canary Islands, the prisoners,", in-
eluding rmnv. PiritUh were lander!,
outside Teneriffe harbor.
Portugal Seizes Teuton Vessel
LONDON,' England,. Feb. 24. An entire) unexpected yvaf devel
opment came today in news from Lisbon, Portugal, that '36 interned
German and Austrian vessels have been seized by order of the Portu
guese commander of the naval division. Hitherto Portugal has ad
hered to formal neutrality and the seizure of tlie vessels has not been
hinted atV; : ---:-,::' : :.: ., ' ' - :
Gerniany WouldjM RumaBia ; y
; LONDON, England, Feb. 24. It is reported here that Germany ;
has secured a second contract to take 400,000 carloads of Rumania
grain,, and entered into other commercial engagements with Rumania
to hold her neutral or secure her as i new ally. ' Z t
In order to encourage the sheep .
dustry in Manitoba, the department
of agriculture undertook "the handling
of this season's wool clip on a co-operative
basis, which has resulted in a
satisfactory market for the farmers.
and other portions have been ', cap
:
Peace Plan
r -
by Federal Wireless,
24. Senator Gore made another at
and th Westttfirn wa thrr sunk
: " ' - : ' '- .-
4
According to a parliamentary com
mittee that investigated the produc
tion of all of London's electric power
a few large- stations wonld" sa'vo
600,000,000 tons of ccal a year; and
greatly reduce the smoke nuisance, '
