S$UtL
THE WEATHER FORECAST. '
Cloudy; rain or snow to-day; unsettled
to-morrow. t
Highest temperature yesterday, 47; lowest, 31!
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
Detailed weather, mail nml marine reports on pnge.II.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 177.
ft
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1916.
Vopurlght, 191, by Ihe Sun VrMlng and PiiWUnfri; tj-orfnffoii.
PRICE TWO CE
A.
NTS. ir
DUAL SUBWAYS
MAY BE ILLEGAL,
N1WLL AVERS
.SOirtlos Thompson Com
jniltee liy Doubt inj Sta
ins of Contract.
Thompson conscious
m vn.-rr vin nrir .of a vritv " 1C nnu-h steamship .
llAt Kul. A 1 1 1 J ULJuu'u'Hihun, f nlQ . . , , .
' ' . ","'fn. of -.01S tons, has arrived at
' the port of Santa Cruz itc Tenerlfte, tic-
p(, L-necy Nlcoll. to whom the In-
ter!irnuch It.tpld Transit Company paid
tlifi-1 1 - dollars for his cervices In
,orinr'tin with tho final system con
tacts, startled the Tlutitpson loglsla
t ve intntnlttue yesterday by assettlng
tut he had had grave doubts ns to the
,t.-.t tu'lotiullty of the arrangements
mie for extending the rapid transit
o". Ho could not bo forced to admit
.l it be still doubts tho wisdom of the
'nun of Appeals in deciding otherwise,
wit he pointed out that this conclusive
.11 is op was mull! by a divided court
Hi a tin 11 majority In favor.
similar opinion was given by Daniel
I'. Il.os. who was counsel for tho Ad
miral liealty Company, In tho suit which
t brought to test the validity of the
impacts.
tannic! i:iy Qulgg In an open letter to
Mutur Tliomnson last night said to the
fmator; "Your conduct H the conduct
la mnsuou macKKuaru. lie rcierrc.i
to tlie recent publication of letters of I
V liilleiple and tin- reproduction of j
a f:.0o , hick Ktven by the contractors I
in (.'uifci:. '
1- 1 tho entire afternoon yreterday
: e "nimitteo devoted Its attention to
f,i t fur injunction brotiKht by the
. , il liealty Cnniian. with which
' Jo.in'il the suits of John It. Hon !
' .lo'oi ,1. Hopper URalust the Public'
. Commission and the Hoard of
"-" .itc and tin- Itrooklyn tt-ipld Tran-
'iii.m The attornejs on both!
- in the Ad111l1.it Itcal'y Company
.urc paid by the tnterbomugh. and
ii.ii Thompson. llalnbridKe Colby
1 '1 1 iv I'nink -Mos have taken the
if.t.oii that the suit, as It went to the
touri of Appeals, was a collusive suit.
t 'lias.lt With Tlioniiaiiii.
T e -luestlnn of whether or not it wa
4 1 l'i-lve suit and wlnthr or not the
10 'In " of the law.vets concerned was
: ii.oviikeil i'l. mhes of Senator
' n.-mi and Mr. Nlcoll and Mr. lta.vs.
I Ni 'oil said ho was willing to arguo
e propriety of tho suit b.-foro any
i-t and the Senator replied that he
.M jitob.ibly have a chance. He said
i - that ho bad no Idea of having an
i on It-gnu t" test tho validity of the
11 1 slum contrai ts,
'- I'.ov T. 1 1111 kin'hs, asslstunt counsel
to ' i. Public Service Commission, out
'it'll tlie suit of tho Admiral Itealty
1 I'i'iy ami tho two othor actions as-
I with It. He said that Samuel
-".nv.r, lyouls Mut shall, Daniel P.
1 1 ind Itnlph Wolf apjieareil for Uie
i' ci.iiii.iii, Hubert It'ld Honrs for
I'terburough. tleorge I, Yeotnans
1 P.. It. T Asi-lstant Corporation
l' . Hull for the Hoard or Iittlm.ite
i 'n i'ge S. Colom.ui and himself for
in i'i.".- Service) Coinenlssiiiii, ciar-'
: .-Mriui. now- a Supremo Couit Jus
t . 1 ed a counsel for Ibjipcr. 1
M ll.irkness said he e.xpecteil that I
i.'. Iioi.iuk'i iinpany w.im iwhlnd '
- . '. but thai he made no effort to
.. ,1,0. in- lilt,.,: i, I' Mill 11,1
the lawyers on the s!do hid.
nV.1l to the lnt rlnirough
" is- paid by that cotiiiany,
1 v S Coleman, chief counsel to
'm!'1.' S.-riice Commission, sild bo
'1 suit was really hostile and
I never ni-picteil anything In
' ' "I Mil It Me dill Mlsp,.,', that
I ' 'ii -u'l was brought b Interests
II lo t'.ie Inti rborough. hut said
i I '.noun; to 11 ml out d finitely.
I he wasn't interested In that
1 ,
'- L i.'uai kenbush. general nttor-
r t . Iiitiiboiougli, said that he
""''in..- to do w'th the Admiral
ompany suit, but declared that
I ' ! t nought, and did not now
. i'm the Milt was In tho Intirest
t iierhiirough. Itn said h had
.11 vied against the I'oiistltutlou
'' th ipaiigi'iiiint that had been
1 I w tii the It. It, T, ntid Ihit had
' 1 member of the Court of Ap-
tv'rn the diclsion was rendered
" alf riimpimy suit he would
' io'I wi'h the nilnorlt.v.
1 1
t' !
U
I"
h
Mi,
P.
Meoll Ulieslioueil liillllll.
I I ' N'lcnll testltlnl that he
tog' I th ll.is. llershtleld &
1 '.hi,,: sii't In test the validity
11 I! T 1 nntriiet. He said that
" '""i ,
1 preferi ntlal I
lor 1 t emit, lined
' 1-. Hie operating company and 1
grave . institutional question
i- P raised.
I ,
SB-.
,;n:,:,Ma:,'' ,' ..",n, "y"-
.'. ' '
1 ray in.ide. them only when
' r ' do iin thine; else. ! was '
' " pol ey f the company to I
i" i' h i schenio As a 'enant
' ' '1. Interbnroiigh believed
r ati l is duty to extend Its
private c-ipltal. Thnt has
n t.i ivd io here several times,"
' ' ,i moments' after this Senator
i ti under! mk to tell Mr. Nlcoll
' i should answ er nuestlons.
if
V i
1. .
'"I answer the way I want to." re
tnrt.., ih ,,BW,r "f guess I know
I'"w io ennduct myself on ths witness
"'i I dun i pied you to tell rr.e."
'Mr Moss will ask a question and
' ' " il .intwer It."
'"I- Moss will asT me nuestlnns nnrt
I
de ide whether or not they are
' und then I'll answer."
r.qulr'. went on smoothly enough
SVnnt.ir Thniinmnn niiV Hfe.
I'M
1
tin
'"''11 llli.lt r,n Hum In n Mil nr.Mnl.l
I'S' hurt to the Interborcogh on June 1,
1M3
meant. This Item referred to an
invext.gition by a Joint lefflslatlve com-
unilf e.
"J'liut servlco did you renderf
"r Chairman, that l one of the
fl'"tion that Is neither pertinent nor
'r"Pr, but I am going to assume that
l and tell you what aervlce I rn-tt-rn.
I cxamtntd the resolution under
"Giicli this commutes waa appointed and
if" scope ,f its authority. T also mads
'mis examination of tho personnel of
' committee and the character of lis
'"rnir.er and reported hlghtr on
tin in,"
"In that case," said Senator Thomp
"". "I think your bill was too small."
"Much too small." replied Mr. Nlcoll.
I'l'i witness mid that back In 1D0
" promulgated H suit brought by the
o'J'iilial Itealty Company ugalnst the
CnnHniiril os Twelfth Par.
Germans Take
206 Aboard, to
jThe Westburn, With Sailors From Seven Vessels, Latest
Victims of Mysterious Teuton Sea Rover. Sails
Into Santa Cruz
HAS SURVIVORS OF THE CLAN MACTAVISH
Special Cable ttrrcaleh to Tiir. Sc
-" " i.iiuiun, I't'U. J3. r lying
the (lcrm.111 naval cnuign and In charge
coidltiK to despatches from the Canary
Islands to-day. The Westburn asked
the hospitality of the Sp.inirh Guvtrn-
' nient "pending the making of epalis."
, The Westburn Is in command of a
Herman prize crew consisting of one ottl
cer and seven men. She has on board
"0(1 prlsomrs taken from sK British and
olio Belgian vessel, all except one of
which aro believe! to lu.vo been le
sttoyed lij a myster ous Hitman .aider.
One'iif the numbers of thi nir.f crew'
t wore a cap bearlim, nrcnrdlnir to the.
1 TeneiltTo despatch, the Inscription "S. M,
S. .Mot ben." This Is assuml to be meant
for Moewe, the (lerman raldi. which
j after Hlnklntr six llrltlslt vcsseN in mld-
I Atlantic placed their crews, or pirt of
1 them, on the Hrltlsh passenger liner Ap-
pam In ch.irce of I. lent. Ham Iter,: and
a prize crew of twtnty-two and sent
youne otllcer nwny with the command
"Urlnfr her Into an American port or sink
her. (
British Mirxltnra Iboard
Anions t.u- prisoners aboard the West- ,
' ' -
Meani-dilii Clan MacTavlFh. sunk, ar-
cordlntt to Its catitaln, by tin- Moewe on
January 1? last ulf the coast of l'urtnir.il.
This fact, couiiled with the inscription
on one of the sailor's raps, connects til" ,
Westburn with the exploit of that sea 1
lover. A third "clue" leadlliR to tho 1
Moewe is the fact that the Wtytlmru
I'.as aboaid part of the crew of 11 slean
ship called In despatches rroni Teiiirlir.il t-enth vese) sunk or captured by that
the Cambridge. This Is supposed to bo j adventurous rover of the seas, of these
the llrltlsh tteanishlp Corb'.lilKc. sunk. fourUen are llrltlsh and one. the I.uxem.
according to previous advice" from ! bourg, Iltlglan
Newport News, by the Mo.-ve on Jantl-I A little more than three weeks ago
ary 11. off the co.ii-t of Portugal. on Kebnuty 1 th BrltUli liner Appam.
The Westburn left Liverpool on Janu. 'f ninrly 4, POO tons, nt that tlmo re
ary 21 for llui-nm Ayres. u voyagu ported "lost." entered Hampton Itimils
which would have taken her about thirty.
five ila).. as she is not believed to be
capable of maklnc more Ui.m between
six and seven knots. She was last re
lirteil ,i passim: St. Vincent, Cape
Venle, IVbruary 4. . All of the ships
previously reported sunk or captured by
the Moewe met their fate In inld-Al-1
kimic.
I It appears, therefore, that the West-
burn, which must havo steamed Into the
"ralillnii zone" off the Moroccan coast
about ten or twelve da after her de-
paitiiro from l.lvenol, ran Into tho'
Herman sea rover's path about the end'
CURB BROKERS PLAN
TO MOVE INDOORS1
ltadical Kcoruaiii.ntioii hihI ;
Ticker Service Arc Likely
to Follow.
Wall Street heatd yctei d.1.1 that a
.
special committee has bei n appointed by 1
the New York Curb Market Association I
to move the outside market Into a build- '
Ing within a block of Its present location, ,
thus stamping out the objectionable fea-
tures and ivll which under present con-
dltlous cannot be eliminated ei.tlrel.v. ,
The members of the special committee,
are K. It. MeCnrmlck. chilrman. who Is
also chairman of the Curb Market Asso-
elation. George Schmidt of Schmidt & !
.. .1., t.-.. .u f ....I.. ri,.i.
liaiiaiiii. r-i"iii r i..i 11, i.iiii- ..I, 1 ii-ii.
man, chairman or tho curb listing com
mlttcc, and Arthur Gwynne of Gvvynne,
nros. When asked Just what the com
mlttee would do Mr. MrConnlck said:
"Thl special committee has been an-
pointed to eradicate tin cn-iit tunny evils
that have existed on the cm b which pre. '
vlously the noe.itiou ha been unable, I
through force of circiuusiaiires. in pre-
vent. The, commute! will go nun reor- I
gnnUatloi plans on a scale and basis
greater than ever before attempted " 1
It Is understood that the committee '
will look for a site for the housing nf tin
outsldo market under a roof located
...I.V.I.. nr.... bounded bv Itronilwiiv. '
Willi! - --. .
Beaver street. Wall street und Hrn.nl
street. In the tln.tnrl.il district It Is x-
nected that th" rem ganlzutlon of th
Pe"pi . ,., ...,.h ,,. ,.,., v
" ''"J ' , t e Sti ck ltM-hange It
"
n.ts nn 1 .,, ... i ;
cn, ;rvT;JuTiii"s .m.rk,-; tn the .1,
... .1.. ...1 r.t linsli.esu I l.o
necau.-c - " ..',
Stock Hxclu.ngn Is consldi red responsible
for the, smaner noain 1 ''''' 11 w'
II has been estiuiaieu uiai niiriiig- inn
past year there, weie more than Jiibii,.
000 000 of row stocks and bonds ad
milled to dealings on the curb, chiefly In
dustrlal Issues,
The movement for a genet a I denning
UB of the outside mat kid, which. It Is
said, will probably result In the estab
lishing of u ticker sirvlce or messenger
service for tho distribution of quotations.
Is said to have originated nmoim the
curb broke! s themselves.
During the last twelve mouths prnb
ably 200 concerns which applied lo the
outside markit for listing nf their slocks
were rejected, The present fee for list
ing Issues on tho curb Is 1100. but It Is
understood that under the. now regime
this will be Increased.
The special committee will meet for
the first time to-day, and It Is bellevtd
that the reorganization of tho curb asso
ciation will take at least six months.
DISMISS HELP, SAVE, IS FLEA.
British Committee Asks Wraltnr
to Jlve Up Luxuries,
Special Cubit Despatch lo Tun Sun.
IONOOH, Veb. 23. The press bureau
of Ihe national organising committee on
war savings Issued an appeal to-day
addressed to employers of domestic ser
vants In large houses.
The appeal urges that the house
holders drastically reduce their staffs of
servants, close part of their houses, take
simpler meals anil sacrifice garden lux
uries, especially hothouses, In order to
save money and release labor for use
ful purpose.
British Ship,
SpanishPort
do Teneriffe. 1
I of January or In the first days of Feb-
. rll.in-. T.ll., 11... A....-.. -s - - '
rii.trv. i.ikc lie Atinam. sfm was .1
welcome arrival to tho Moowe. for she
T'!' JV1,,fr.'h'! nie-ih:a of
'.msfprrlnif to her the tn of seven
,vff, .A.t, lhe difference that she x
despatched to a nearby Spanish port
Iiixteacl of the 3,00ft mile trip to Nor
folk. Spanish sailors .1 board.
Aboard the Westburn there are also
eaen .-pan sh mUlors. It could not be .
niiiHii. wiinnrr iney were irom
11 Spanbh vessel captured or sunk by the
Herman rHlder.
The llrltlsh
The llrltlsh vessels whose crews are ,
h. ....... mr unnunrra m me 1
Westburn are
riauuno. C.t. Martorell. 2,93 tons 1 kilometer front (six miles and a nuar
om ' tlucno.1 Ayrrs. Januan- 8. for ' ,er) the re"10" of th' villus of Con-
fro
Hordeaux i last reported at Gibraltar.
January 20.
Horace, Opt, Jones. 2,133 tons, from
Liverpool for Iluenoj Ayres; Inst re
ported arrived a. Montevideo, January
14,
"Cainbrldse," believed to be the Cor
hrMse, with fino tons of coal, captured
by tin- Moewe nn January II.
r.illuhuiRh (Capt. Ilurntey, bark.
1,40s tons, last reported leaving Ran-
coon 011 September
last. for Llrer-
pool.
"DelKr. supposed to be the Ilelclnn
(Cap. Mldnpon), 2.364 tons, last re-
Atu"u m mo!) Uary "
for
71 1 a Belgian vessel renresented
by
prisoners on the Westburn Is the Lux
embourg (Capt. Kberhiird), 2.782 tons,
list reported leaving Newport on Janu
ary 1R for Tluenos Ayres. (Built In
l'.'OS
If the Westburn was eaptuied by
the e.i nildcr Moewe t'a.s Is the flf-
in cnarge 0: i.ieui. nans iierg, com
manding .1 prlro crew of twenty-two
n n Like the Westburn, she flew the
German n.ivnl ensign.
She brought the first hint that a Gr
man raiding vessel, believed to be an
auxiliary cruder called Moew In honor
Of .1 Sltl.ltl MllPl.Vln. VA.uot a,,l. 1 .
jear off Dar-e .-Salam. was holdlrg
sway over .1 w.de stretch of the seas
which had b"ii .-.upposed to be cleared
of German ships.
With her arrival seven matitlm mys-
Cniillitiifif on Thlnt P'apt,
NOT TO END AMERICAN
CAN CO. IF IT BEHAVES
,
ISrokc I.jim in Hen nn hi"-, hut
p
I'inc Organization Now.
I'. S. Court Holds.
IUt.Ti.Mimr. Feb. 23. In an nninlnn
. "
handed down to. day In the L'nlted States 1
District Court Judge Ilnse bebl th.,t 1,.
would not order the dissolution of the
American '"an Company, but retain the
''"I tiled against It by the Government,
"" 'he corporation should at any time
,ln anything which required action by
l'""rt ,1"''"n seems to be no reason
"hy Hi- Governnieiit should not then
" '" " ""' 't might b.
entitled, I
The court holds that "while It the ll'e attacker-. It Is admilKd that
American Can Company) had Its origin i l" l"c'l attacks have had a ceitulii ad.
In unlawful acts and thereby acquired a ' vantage, owing to the wooded hills and
power which may be harmful and the I ravines, which create dlfhVultles for the
acquisition of which In any event wan ' defending artillery, especially when con
contrai; to the policy of Congress as I centratlng for curtain lire
embodied In llin utntiiin l ,i ! Th.rii Im a inarUeil tendency on both
tMh llh ,lIlt ,wer ol, (m whole
mther for weal than for woe
" in fiankly reluctant lo destroy so
finely adjured an Industrial machine as
tin- record srmW the defendant to he
Yet the Government too bus Its rights,
and has thus far boon properly Insistent
upon them,
"t'nder the circumslarires, would It
not e ,K-Uer umpiy to retain the hill.
w llllOUl
at present decreeing a dlssn.
liltlou. but reserving the right to do so '
w .eiiever, if ever. It shall be made to
appear to the court that the size and
Ismcr of the defendant, brought about
as they originally were, are being used
,l'"' originally were, are
.ho Injury ,.f the public,
ever such sl7.e and power, wl
or when-
nd power, without being
n:':" T'1- --
nerenn.llll 11 Ol
iiiitnslice and control over
tlie. industry or some porlloti of It, so
great as to make dissolution or other
restraining ibvree of the court expedi
ent'"' "What is proposed Is in default of it
better form of dealing with a some,
what unusual and very difficult condi
tion, It Is to be hoped that before
any occasion to act upon the power re
served shall arise Congress will sub
dilute some oilier method than ilis.,nlu.
Hon ror dealing with problems which
arise when a single corporation ah-
sorbs a large part of the country's pro
ilucttve capacity In any one. line.
"I ahull titkci tho course Indicated,!
unless one of the parties Insist on my
entering such a final decree as will en
able tJiein to seek at once a review by
a higher tribunal,"
FUMES ROW IN SUPREME COURT
l.a (inardla Asks Leave to Proceed
AKalnat .Km Jersey Concerns,
Wasiiiwoton, Feb. 83. K. H. La
Ouardla, Deputy Attorney.Qeneral of the
State of New York, tiled a motion In the
United States Supreme Court to-day ask
ing leave to flit, complaints against the
New Jersey manufacturing concerns, the
fumes from which are alleged to annoy
New York city residents.
The concerns named are the Bulls
Kerry Chemical Company, the Valvollne
Oil Company, the Midland Linseed Prod
ucts Company, the Corn Products Com
pany and the Bairrtt Manufacturing
Company. It Is understood six more
manufacturing companies will be In
cluded. The Supreme Court must pass on tits
motion before the cases may b entered
upon the original docket.
GERMANS REPORT
m GAIHATVERDUH
riorcp French Line Almost 2
.Miles, Ciiplmln- :t.mm
Men. IJerliu iSiiys.
HEAVY OFFENSIVE (UIOWS
Seven Army Corps in Attack
Purls Admits Loss. Siiys
Enemy Paid Pearly.
Sp'ttat Vablt Popn'ri to Tin; Sr
t.0MioV, IVb. 23, The luttle noith
I of Verdun, precipitated by the offensive
of the- German army under command of
the. Crown Prince, which was begun
Monday night. Is Increasing In Ir.tenMty
The German official statement Issued
to-dny claims the tuhlnrt f the Trench
positions to a depth of three kilometers
m!,. ... ..wn.-lrl.thsl on a tell
senvoje. More than 3,000 Ft inch weie
taken prisoners, the German statement
nayn, and the French n!o lot heavily
In killed and wounded and In material
c&ptured.
The French admit the loss of the
village of IlaumonU although they say
that they still hold the environs after a
Mublwrn fight, and they also admit that
the Germans, havo penetrated Into the
Wavrllle wood, west of the village of
Wavrllle, In the same sector.
Troopa of seven German army corps
are betmr used In the offensive in this
sector, according to the French official
communique Issued to-night. Seven
corps of tho Qerman army In war time
comprise some 305,000 men.
German Attack Persists.
The Crown Prince's attack on the Ver
dun sector resulted on Monday, Its first
day, In the Germans gaining a foothold
In certain advanced French trenches at
Brabitnt-sur-Meuse, between the forest
of Hautet and L'lIerUbois, They were
driven out of iMmnmnlcatlng trenches to
which they had penetrated at fome
points.
The first assaults wete preceded by
artillery preparation of exceptional
thoroughness and this bombardment,
from guns of large calibre, hn leen
continued ever since without cessation.
Vesterday the attucks were resume.)
against the llrb.nt-sur-Meuse-I(erle.
bols front, with the result that the
French were forced out of the Hols Hhu
mont and the Germans we:e left in
possession of the French salient north
of lleaumont. At the same time attacks
gainst Brabant and L'llerbebcis were
rfPUld.
Hamnont was evacuated Tuesday
n'lti hut the French made a stand In
1 the outskirts of the village, and the
I.Germans were unable to dislodge them.
I rxencn counter annex recovered me
j irreati-r part of the Kector north of
Beaumont and the Germans were pre
vented by the French fire curtain from
carrying out an attack on L'llerbebois.
the Germans suffering heavy losses.
, ' These positions north of Beaumont.
which are within the forest of Caures.
were again the scene of terrific fight
ing to-day. the German trying In vain
to maintain the advantage which their
offensive had gained at this point, only
to !ose it aealn. In the Wavrllle uon.l.
which i to the northwest or the caure
Tn..t. tliev were more hltocernl :ife
wooJ, they were more suecessrul after
attacking repeatedly, and it was hen
that they made one of their Important
gains.
Claim CSaln In I'pper Alsace.
A second Important gain Is claimed
by the German ottlclal statement Issueil
'.' ml
to-day in upper Alsace. An nsault
made east of Heldweller. nui tlieiist or
Altklrch. th- statement says, gave tlie
(.ermaiis French positions on 11 front
of 700 meters (T.1! an!s) and lo a
depth of 400 meters 1 437 yards).
The prer-ent German offent-lve. of
which the m'sault mi the French lines
defending Verdun Is the latest develop
meiit, was begun on January 2!',
Desnatches received from Parti dwell
on the Importance of the German at-
temm on Verdun and the severe lo.-fes
sides to hold the front trenches. ,Pry
llglitly. since the tlrtt trench line ills,
appear under n liens- bonibariliueiit,
while large forces are held further bar
rradv for counter attacks when the
enemy guns are Inactive, Consequently
the loss of first line trenches mi either
side no longer possesses its former sig
nificance. For this reason tlie loss or the i-rench
advanced trenches Is regarded calmly,
while great confidence Ik expressed In
the ability of the French to hold their
own
The Pari correspondent of the 7(ior
says that hitherto neither side can claim
any definite advantage, and adds;
"The general commanding the Ger.
man Held army In thla region Is unlikely
to encourage the Crown Prince to push
much further."
German Ofllclnl Report.
Following Is the German official re
port: In the neighborhood of the trenches
raptured by our troops February 21
to tb enst of Souchex tho positions
of tho enemy were considerably dam
aged by mining operations. The num
ber of prisoners taken hero was In.
creased to eleven officers and 34 N men.
The booty consisted of three machine
f""'' . . . ...
lcry duels continued w Ith undiminished
, , , ,1
On tne neigius tu mo aicuse arm-
i Inlence.
Itant of Ihe Meuso lllver we at
tacked ft position which the enemy
has been fortifying for one und a half
years with all means of fortress con
struction In tho neighborhood of tho
village of Connenvoye In order to
maintain an embarrassing effect on
our defence In the northern sector of
tho Woevre.
Thu attack was delivered on a
front extending well over ten kilo
meters (six miles) and we penetrated
as far as three kilometers Into the
enemy'e Unea. ,
Apart from considerable, sangui
nary losses the enemy lost more than
3,000 men In prisoners ami great
quantities of material, the extent of
which cannot yet be estimated.
In upper Alsace our attack to the
east of Heldweller resulted In caplur.
Ing an enemy position extending over
a width of 700 meters and for a depth
Continued oil rftird Vagr.
CURAT IIKAR NPRINC1 WATFK.
lie. tho case el sfct glass stupparsd bellies.
44.
immmMXW;,
ib u-uwrn wu
Police Lorain Mini Who Shot
Wonmn anil Order His
Seizure.
f'AI.I.S IT AX ACCIDENT
Detectives Find Him in n Sa
loon With Eleven Men
fitiarding- Him.
"llelli! Is this 3100 Spring?"
risked - maudlin voice over the wire of
Patrolmnn Jullu It. Scheffier, n wide
awn!. telephone operator at Police
Headquarters, at 7:02 o'clock Inst night.
"Sure thing," replied Scheffier. "What
m we do for you?"
"I J-J-Just s-s.shot .1 woman nt 111
17.1 st 112th street." the mnn gasped,
'b-b-but I didn't mean to. 1 was Just
fooling with a revolver. I think you'd
bitter n-nd an ambulance."
"That's too bad, oung fellow,"
Schemer said In his most s mp.ithetlc
tone. "What did you say your name
Is?"
"Itabert Watson '
"And what's onr number""
"This is tr.sl Harlem."
Scheltlir placed his hand over the
receiver and whispered to the operator
next to him. "Get central to locate 4391
quicker than blares."
Then he continued In his mildest
manner1 "Say, nr friend, where are
you now"''
"I'm at 111th street and Pari; ave.
nue." answered tho man, and then sud
denly the connection was broken off.
The number was located as that of tt
saloon at 113th street and Park avenue
ntid Scheffier called up the bartender.
"This is Police Headqimrters," h
said. "I order you In the name of the
law to seize the man who used your
phone and hold him till we can get some
officers there,"
Some quick orders were sent over the
police wires by direction of acting C.ip-
tnln nines and when Detectives Carmody,
Cassettl. Conroy und Meyers arrived at
the saloon they found ti man surrounded
by the bartender and ten customers. The
detectives placed him under arrest and
for 11 time he Insisted he was Robert
Watson, a bartender, but later he de
scribed himself as Itobert F. Trnnk
matin. 24. a song nml dance artist. He
refused to tell where he lived.
In the meantime It was learned that
Mrs. Kate Falcone. 21. wife of Aurelio
Falcone, a barber at 90.1 Broadway, had
been shot through the heart and killed
Inftantly In her rooms at 111 Itast 112th
street Tr. Ink man 1 1 admitted that he
was if sponsible for her death, but In
slsted that the ihootlng was accidental.
Trankmann spent the afternoon In the
apartment with Mrs. Kttlcone and Mrs.
Itllen Stefano, her fliersl, of SIS KasT
llsth street. Mrs. Stefano said that
while she was playing a new pianola
she honid "Watson." as she knew htm.
s.iv to Mrr. Falcone In another room:
"If I ever catch you with another man
I'll kill you." Then n shot was fired
and Mrs. Falcone died In her chulr.
Mrs. Falcone's daughter. Kllzabeth. 5,
mid Mrs. Stefano's dnughter, Marlon,
4 ij, were present.
Trankmann was locked up for homi
cide. Mrs. Falcone was a Miss I-ondrigan.
She formerly lived at Monroe, N. Y. Her
father waa killed In a railroad wreck and
her mother was burned to death at Suf
fern. N. Y., three years ago.
SNAKE BITES MRS. ABCHB0LD.
Illllen In
l.rft Let-,
nattier.
She Kills
TlinM,vsv!Lt.K, (!n Feb. 23. After
beliiK bitten by a large rattlesnake late
this afternoon Mrs. John P. Archbold,
daughter-in-law of John I). Archbold,
head of the Standanl Gil Company, shot
the snake and was assisted to her win
ter home, where the wound was treated,
Physicians found Mrs Archbold In a
good deal of pain, but say that she
will recover.
Mrs. Archbold was bitten while hunt
ing nu the Archbold estate near here.
She was In short skirts and heavy
leather bunting boots. Mrs. Archbold
almost stepped on the snake and had
no time to draw back. Tho reptile
struck at once. Us fangs penetrating her
left leg Just above the ankle.
Mrs Archbold did not lose her, pre.,
cm of mind, but shut the snake and
then called to members of her party
When the boot was removed It was
found that Mrs. Archbold had been
slightly bitten above the left ankle. The
heavy hoot checked the snake's fang.
and ph)hlcUtib say that It undoubtedly
saved Mis. Archbold's life. Her limb
was considerably swollen and Mrs,
Archbold was In sharp pain when the
physicians arrived.
Mis Archbold had the dead snake,
brought home and will have the skin
stuffed.
BARRED FROM YALE BY ACCENT
Harvard Preacher's Talk Described
n "Too KnKllsh."
Nr.w ll.vvn.M. Conn.. Feb 22.- Accord
ing to a statement made to-day by Prof.
John Wesley Wetzel, who h.w'ehapge of
punnc spe.iKing in vale, ,m eminent
Harvard piofivsor because of PIm jiir.
v.'ird accent hat. becnine nersmi i I
grata at Yale, and will no lunger be marlm' on slKht. The unlets themselves i ll1' ' 's known that the Government
asked to prcai H lo Yale students In I arc contained In appendices being lor-,''1 ' u'"nl' ",4M r,',l,,,'"l'"l further Infnr
the college chape). For the last ni-. ...ui (mlan. iilm iterant fr.im 1 nullon from the. 1 lilted States concern.
or six years he has been nu occasional ,
preacher there '
Prof, Wetzel in a lecture at Hartford .
ythterda) mentioned the fact that one ;
of the best known men nf tho linn I
faculty, a professor who went there five
oi six years ago from the Wet, had be
come so imbued with the Harvard and
Boston atmosphere that recently tiU nc.
cent had been the subject of comment by
Yale undergraduate on the occasion of
his preaching here. It was contended
that as his ait grew broader, the reach-1 , , . ,,er willingness to postpone
I., . 'V.1 J; '" ' ".,' ?U l ....nf,'from March I ottlclal ate l.,, , ...
i" .1 ii iiiiiei.
He was then Informed that Iih engiqje.
ment at Yale had been cancelled, ac
cording to Prof. Wetzel.
Prof. Wetzel said he took the matter
up with Anson Phelps Stokes, secretary
of the coiporallou, and after asking
him why Hie engagement of the noted
Harvard professor had been cancelled
was told by Mr, Stokes that his accent
wan ginwlng "loo Itngllsh." A a re.
suit nf hl iicnolred liccelil. 1'rnf 11..
zel, the Harvard man "falls to pass
for half his worth aa a public speaker."
I I.ORIItA "llivr rotUT" KKSIIRTH
RK.It'HKIIIIVN.Y. r'l.OIIIBANI'RCI.II."
.Mliintlc Cnsst Line, 'JUS P. M, 3 other
All.Slrel Ltd. Trains Dally, tint B usy,
Jdv.
CONGRESS
m v BQAT policy
U. S. INTO WAR, SA
GORE BILL TO KEEP CITIZENS
OFF SHIPS OF BELLIGERENTS
WASHINGTON, Feb. 2.1. Senator Gore, who recently returned front
Florida, where he saw ex-Secretary Uryan, It Is said, will Introduce a reso
lution to-day nn follows:
Section I. Be It enacted by the Ken- shipwreck or other distress nt sea,
ate and House of Hepresentntlves of "I"1" ,,n nullty of a felony, and upon
the United States of America in Con- VX: WVZ
gress assembled that anv American tr. ..a.-. ... i...
... .
, iirrpuii entiiien to re-
celv-e a passport under the laws of the
United States at the tlmo of making
and verifying an application for pass
port, shall also malto oath under such
rules and regulations as the Secre
tary of State may prescribe, to the
effect that he will not. during the tlitm
for which such passimrt Is Issued or
renewed, travel or accept trnnspoita-
tlon as a passenger on an armed ves-
Vi . country or rower
which shall be at the time In a state
or war.
Section 2. That when a state of war
exists between any two or nioie foi
elgn Powers or countries no passport
shall Is? authorized or Issued bv the
Secretary of State, or by any person
acting for, or under him, to any cit
izen of the United States, or to anv
person owing allegiance to the United
States, until such citizen shall have
made o.itlj, as prescribed In the preced
ing section, that he will not during
the time for which su-h passport I
Issued or renewed, travel or accept
transiortatinn as a passenger on any
vessel of any foreign Power or coun
try which U at the time In a Mate
of war.
Section 3. That any such citizen or
person falsely making the oath pro
vlded for In the first section hereof,
or who having taken such oath shall
travel or accept transportation as
passenger on any vessel of anv such
v.i 1 1 .......... . ,. . .
s-r,, ,.,1-11-111. i imrr ur country uuriug
the time for which such nnssnort was
Issued or tenewed, except In .ac of
Wilson's Talk of a Break
Stuns State Department
Officials Say U. S. Could Not Consistently Shut the
Doors to Further U Boat Discussion With Ger
many Should Await Allies' Replies.
. IVasiiinoto.v, Feb. 23 State Depart -
mcnt circles to-nlghl seemed amazed
over the sudden wave of apptehenslon
which has swept through the House and
Senate following the publication of the
details of the conference at the White
iiuuk uii .'iwiiuu?- niKiil. neil uie i iesi
dent. met Senators Stone and Kern, and
Hcpresentatlve Flood.
Officials of the Department appeared
unwilling to believe that the President
had Informed the members of Congiess
that hn did not nronose to prolong the
ne.ntb.tion. with tternianv if ihe com.
'
Ing communication from Berlin falls en-
tliely to meet the views of the United
Slates.
That Germany will propose a discus
slon of the question as to the right of
merchant vessels to arm for defenie or
the extent to which they might arm
and still retain their character as mer
chant ship Is exjKCted at the Depart,
nient.
It was even admitted that iicli a
proposal from Germany was anticipated
when Mr. Lansing, at his last confer
ence with Count von Hernstorff, In-
formed the latter that the United Mates
could not accept the proposed settle
merit of llm Lusitanla case until It was
assured by Germany that the new sub
marine declaration would not nullify the
tffoct of past assurances.
Couldn't Be Arbltrnr).
Neither with respect to t lerman. nor
with respect to the Itntmte Powers, it
w.is Mmestcd to-night, could the Unltnl
States consistently shut the door In all
further discussion of the question,
Count von Hernstorff. It was Insisted,
I was not told by Mr. Lansing that tier-,
I many must withdraw or mouiry per
new declaration. It" as to.u mat tne
new declaration as communicated to the
United States appealed to be ln,',niiM.
ent with Germany's past assurance that
"liners would not be sunk without w nn
Ing and without measures N'lng taken
for the safety of the non-ciiinlialants on
board, providol the liner did not resist
or seek to escape capture" Liners, ac
cording to th American iitidersliindliig
of the law, had the right to arm for
defence.
German, It was iiuted out, had
based her new declaration on the state
ment that In view of secret orders sunl
to llrltlsh tvieichaul ships b the British
Admiral! It was Impossible to draw
the distinction between llrltlsh ships
armed for defence and those armed for
offence.
Tim seeret orders reftil red to. the Iter.
man decl.irat on set torlh. reunited ..
,.i-..l, ,i,tii,m for defence to attack suh.
Berlin by mall. They have not I u c-
celved. Official nf the Department de
elate that It Is Important for tlii ni
know exactly what the niders are.
Die opinion Is expressed that it might
lie veiy difficult for the United Stales t.
contend Hint aiinanient nt British nu-
chant- Shl Is of a defensive chir-tctii.
If the ships have received such urdeis,
as Germany claims they have.
On the other hand, If Gennan, in
. ., ji. ,.i .,t n,..
Ileve that a crisis would develop which
would demand an immediate break in
relation.
Many of those In high position go cv-i
so far as to say that 11 Is douhtful
whether American lives would be 'In any
way endangered If the new- declarit 01,
went Into effect at i.nce. l''ln-l
out that as none of the British shin
sailing between the I ti led Slates ind
1.-....I .....1 . ., at in.,,! am ii. Itii, I.Vkiw,,,
1,,, - - " "
1 "hips are not nrnien at all the aclu il
fecl 01 oiciai.iuon ninim n-
limited lo British vessels travelling a
routes which Americans are not likely
to Use.
It Is realized III official circles that
acrmany may Instruct Ambassador vun
DEFIES WILSON;
iii'.ii. .in ,ii ,u,viv, nr iij I luifi fvniii,-n .
for not less than one year, nor mote
than live years, or both.
Section 4. That no person ow ing nl-leglnni-j
to the L'nlted States who
shall travel or accept transportation
as i passenger with, or without, a
pas'jport on the vessel of any country
or Power which Is at tho time In a
.i,.t.. ..r -r .n i i'in..i .. n,'.
piotectlon of thla Government.
Section 3. That any emplojee or
officer of the United States
whose
term of office Is not fixed by the Con
slitutlon thereof who shall be con
victed of violating the provisions of
this act, shall, In addition to the pen
nlllis above pres-rlbed, be removed
from offiiu or from tlie public ser
v ice.
Section . That the President shall
have the power by proclamation when
ever. In his Judgment, the public peace.
Interest or safety will not be Jeopar
dized theieby, to suspend the operation
of this act ns to the vessels of British
Honduras plying exclusively between
that country and the United States,
and the vessels of the Dominion of
Canada plying exclusively between
ports and place In the Dominion of
Canada and ports and places In the
United States, and he shall have power
to revoke such proclamation whenever
the public peace, Interest or safety re
quire It
So.-tlon .. That all acts or part of
ucis in ennHiet herewith nr- 1,-r.i...
. . . .. . .. . ' '
repealed, and this act shall take effect
fifteen days after the date of Its np.
pi oval by' the President.
1 Iternstorff to piopose to Mi Lansing or.e
ol' ,wo things, either one of which, it
' "ZvTio cons Ider."td HM" mM
lm. lirt pI(u.Pi (t , .JaK,,ted the)
i Ambassador might be told to submit to i
1 Mr; '-"'""ir compromise suggestion
l caning on tne i nueii itatni to taKe the
, , . , . , ..(.,. ... ,.,,i -,, i.MI,
of submarines, defensive uimatnrnt oil
nienliani ship. Instead of Including six
Inch guns, should be limited to guns ofi
much smaller calibre: or, soundly, re
quest the United States to act as Inter-1
medl.tr in bringing about a modus
vlvcndl. which would limit the calibre
f defensive armament to one ur two
1 Inches.
The Main Object.
Wtcr all, It was said, what cotuerns
the United States most at this time, and
what was responsible for a holdup In
the Liisltauia negotiations, was a desire
to hilng about some nrrangemrnt which
would nniovc all prospect of American,
live- being endangered In any new sub-j
marine warfare. I
If sii h an arrangement 1 iwsslblei
through furlliet negotiations, officials ex-,
piesred cnnllilence that the United i
Sl.tlis Government, even nt the cost of
i ,-,,,,,. lMliy , K,.g settlement of
the l.usitatna
case, would not reje t
Ilium
t hi the other hand. It was pointed out
at the State Department that while the
I'.htoiilc Powers have Indirectly mani
fested an unwillingness to agree to the
proposals which Mr. Lansing made to
tlietn on January IS, looking to a dls-
j a. m iment nf all merchant ships, their)
.actual replies have not been received.
j While It Is resarded ns probable that
the entente Powers will never agree in
niltught disarmament, It may he pussllile
mat the might have alternative Hug
uetlons to nffer. In which event, It Is'
pointed nut, It would bit unwise for the
United States to close the door In fur
ther ii.-cts..ion of the subject by break
Ing ntr the negotiations with Germany.
The Herman ICmbassy I expecting to
har from Berlin some time tn-ninrrnw
although nt a late hour this evening. It
was declared that the Ambassador had
not .vet been advised that hi new in
structlons were on the way
PETROUTK REPLY IX.
Instrlii U Mure Details n At
tack mi the Tanker.
Wtsiii.MiTiiN. Feb, 23. Austria's re.'
Id lo the American request for an e.
il,iii.illoii of the submarine attach up,
the Aineilcan steamer Pctrnllte. remind
""miiokioii io-na
I Althmigh lis text was not made nuli-
j IK "j" American version of the attack,
and ha Intimated that thu evidence
submitted by this countty is sotiiewli.il
at variance with the statements made
b ihe Austrian submarine commander.
Follow lug the rcctVpt of the coinniunl
eatloii. Secictary Lansing directed that
Immediate steps lie taken to gel In
touch with the crew of the Pctrnllte,
which, when last heard from, was at
Liverpool, and to get the additional In
form. illoti requested.
According to the American version,
the Standard O'l tanker was hailed by
an Austrian submarine In the eastern
Mediterranean and ordered to stop,
but when the order was obeyed the
submarine cmitlnueil firing shells, ope
of the Khnis exploding n the hull of the
' ',, ' , ; ' .. ", ,;. ; '
, T,Mh. ,.,rt.os h,rP . v),,w ,
,,,, ,f A,,Htrlu , convinced on
,)f ,,, ad,'tlopal Information
;,sK..il for that the circumstances were
s,., described bv the United Stales
1 f satisfaction will be given. Including
. . .
, alio iigv. iiiiiem 1 ii ror anv ,i.in,,iu..
done ami punishment of the submarine.
, commander
- m .vt.w BAIIt
Gin' tliniisaiul piniiiiis fliliit-se limnmi
! hair nr mle In.piit. Hit tH.ljY k SMITH,
Kr'Viiuoi-i'jr" 1
TO FORCE
Y LEADERS
Tbrcatcns to Put Han on
Armed Ship Travel Over
His Head.
ACiAIX I ITC INSISTS
HTCOrPOSTCSAVAlJMXU
Tells Senator Stone 1'ijrlits
of 1 S. Citizens .Must
Jle Protected.
STATK DKl'AltTMTCXT
TAKTCX HV Si:iMM!ISTC
Many of Wilson's Inflnen
tial Friends in t'onjrress
Desert hi": Mini.
Wasiiinhtov, Feb. 23. A stave turn
In the submarine mntiovci cam
to-day. when formidable opposition
flared "P In Omci'es In Piesldottt
Wilson's determination m force
showdown with Germany.
To-night the I'lesideni find." him
self confronted with a threat from
Important Democratic lenders In th
Mops., that a resolution w.ll be put
through over hi iippos.tliin w.itiiit).
Americans fiotu travelling nn at tiled
merchantmen.
Demo 'ratlc leaders in the House,
who .-eeiit In have vvotked themselves
Into a high state of excitement over
the, submarine situation, vvete pte
dieting to-day that the President's dt
tct initiation to Insist upon the tixht
of Americans to travel m it li immu
nity nn armed merchantmen will
eventually lead this country into the
war.
So firmly Have the House leaders
convinced themselves of tin- that thej
moved without d i.i.v 10 vitn thu
President of the urovMiiu si ntlnictn
in Congress.
n tho Senate sidt also their vt .
evidence of Intense feeling mi ti.
stlbject, and notice w.i, served nf ti,(
Intention of cettaln Ietipi.r,itii s, u.
Mors to pi ess fot tip passage of a
resolution regardless, of the Prc-nP nt',
stand. In the Sennit-, lmwiver. :ue
Administration force seemed io i
In better control than 111 tne lluii.se.
Wilson n Worst Pllubl.
Not since the .sillilti.iiitif issue was
raised ha. the Prcslibni fiuiiul himsc r
In such a discouraging picdliaiin 11, as
to-nlght. At the npiiiion: wim. i,
needs to - .strongest support to larry
Ills Issue with Germany in n suitelu
tnuclitsinn he llnds hltn.-clf dcscrtcl by
many nf the lnltucntl.il bailers of his
own party, who ,110 .issening openl
that Cotigres. will not stand In hind
him In a cniirse that will briny; u rup
lute w it li tle'iniaiiy.
It I iindcrstuiiil th. 11 the President
and Senator Stunc came pear tt
breaking their friendly iclutluii. :,
the White lluu.-e confluence on Mun
Uy night. iiImi that tip. Presiilcti
gave his t-allei's to understand that h!s
patience in the submarine negotiations
wns Just about exhaust, .,1 lin, tml ,,,
did not propose pup h lunger to op-
dure passively the . hai gcs nr non
action that weie I eng mode agcln-i
his Ailmlnlstratiun.
The curlnus siicclaclc Is presented
of ItopublUun leaders such as Jam
H. Mann Miunling luynll.v by the
D'Miinciiitic President and iippe alltig to
Congress to support him in .my (oiir-.c
that In- may piiifm,..
The Prcsidi'iit's ileicrnitiuitlnn to
stiitnl utiiilterably against nn letrtsln
Hon or this character, curtiiilin
American tights, wa Just as rtrni to
night as It vvmh on Mnndiiy night, when
he first served notice mi members of
Cottgrcs. that lie would regard such
action by the tiatlnniil legislature not
only .'is 111nv.se tun personally nflcn
slve 4uiiln IiiUi-s I'lrtii viand.
When the President heard this t ve
iling of the turmoil in the linn.-.. ,md
the ti'reiit that were Is'lng uttcr-M ee
iiilltd Chnlrmrin Flood of the lions
Foreign Affah-.s Coniintttce on !u n I,
lilnuie und again told him that he v.u
emphatically opposed lo the p.-i.-s,,,. e
:i rcMiliitioii nf warning nml il.a: h..
ptcfencil that the entire iiisn,m r,
submarine warfare should lie dealt
with exclusively through liiplutii.i
1 l.iinni-1.
Notwithstanding the President uL.
terinlui'd opposition, the I icttinerntic nn ,p.
bei of the House I'ollllllilli 11 f, .
Affairs i-Muissed tne onmlop that 1 . .
man I'l 1 ind Clialim.in St ,'
Senate 1'i'Higii lii'latlnus Chip 1 1.
should call on the President tu- iiuii .-,
and ii 11 1 11 1 1 ii I him In detail with 1,,
situation In CopgrisN
At this llleetlPK nf the 1'o i'gi'
(airs Committee it w.is illsiio,sei . p,
pr.ictle.tll every I 'einocrai a- 111111111,1 nt
the lomiiiittee w as oppose, I to tin l' -,
dent's stand on the aritud ip'h.i.. , .,t.i
Issue
Whether or not t'le (lareup in C.i-,.
gies.s will result in an act, mi g ,,
Hon, mall here realize that 't '1. ni
ha,s il, imaged the Presiiletii'i us r,p.
dcmonstratlop will stiei,gtin.i, ,
ptl'SSloil vvlliill 'in- Her'u, liove
already ha old, rued that Pre e
Wilson w mid have ,1 11 cu.'j ,, ,,in
mg the support of Congress to any act
u, il hreak with Genu 111 011 the qucniig
of armed incichantnieii.
The most notable fiatutv- of ihe llnre
