CONGRESS YIELDS TO WILSON IN U-BOAT CRISIS
ft"
Weather Rain or mow tonlflht Friday cUarlnflj colder.
HMML
"Circulation Hooka Open to All")
j "Circulation Books Open to AU."
PRICE ONE CENT.
CoprTlfht. 1010, br The l'rrm rablUhtng
Co. (The Niw York World).
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1916.
16 PAGES S PRICE ONE CENT.
DRIVE
GORE S RESOLUTION WARNING
AMERICANS OFF ARMED SHIPS :
IS SIDETRACKED IN SENATE!
. , -I
Objection by Brandcgec, Re
publican, Chokes Off Dis
cussion of the Measure.
LID DOWN IN HOUSE.
President Assured Measure He
Opposes Will Not Be Re
ported at This Time.
ISrdi! to TV Fttnlsf Work! '
WASHINGTON. Fob. !4. The lid
wo clamped down In both Senate
mid' House to. day on attempts to
press resolutions warning Amorlcuns
to koep oft armed merchant ships.
The threatened rqvolt of many mem
bers of both holmes Rf;alntt President
Wllson'a diplomatic negotiation with
Germany was held In check, at leust
for the present.
Senator Gore of Oklahoma at.
tempted to Introduce a resolution In
jhe Pcnate warning Americans off
such ships, but wus blocked by tha
objection ot Senator Hrundogce, Ite
py Jean, o. Connecticut. Tho Senato
y In u session bound by a rule that
ij f'HKlo objection prevented cun
1 atlon.
jon-itor Goro will try again to-
orrow to secure recognition for his
lesolutlon. also for his bill forbidding
issue of passports to Amcrlcutis In
tending to travel on armed ships. He
Issued a statement saying:
"It seems to niu tht ship of statu
Is drifting or driving headlong upon
the bieakcr. I liavo not seen Mr.
Hryan rinco last January. I did talk
with him at that tlmo about tho
Mils on this subject. Of course, I
know Mr. Uryan f.ivorn action such
na I propose."
In the Senate the picvalcnt opinion
was that no hasty action should bo
taken to embarrass the President in
his conduct of diplomatic negotia
tions, Senator Stouo said, after conferring
with Hcnutors Lodge ami Fomcrenr:
"I think It would be unwise fur Con.
gross to take any urtlcm while the
President and State Department aie
conducting diplomatic iv-goiiutiiiiii
with Germany over tho submarine
issue. Jf Congress Is to take any
fiction nothing should be done until
(Continued on Second Pag".)
WAR REVENUE ACT
IS DECLARED VALID.
Federal Court Decision in Test C;e
Insures Millions, fur the 1
Government. 1
PHlLAnKLl'HlA. Feb. at. Tin
war tux of Oet. Si, 1011. known as the
war emergen revenue act, was de
clared constitutional to-day by Judge '
Dickinson of the I'nlted States Ids- ,
trlct Court when lu refused to re.
move a non-suit on a claim of the'
Heal Ustnto Title Inrur.nice and,
Trust Company, for a return of a j
portion of the taxes paid under the
act. !
It was the first test euft) of the aet
In this district, tho operation of,
which brings million of dollair In ;
revenue to the (iovernmuiu. The ile-'
clslon is legiuded as of the highest
importance setting a precedent wnleli
Is axpeotod to clear up the eoutro
ersy ovor the net between Hie tlov
eminent and various trunt companies.
Tha clause of the net attacked and
affected by the derision wan ih.'il Im
posing a tux ot II on rery $j,mV) or
the capital, surplus mid undivided
profits of .i trut eonipanj used In
the Vanklng buelJicw.
AT VERDUN CHECKED,
II Lb ft I ILIIUUII UIILUIALUf I IILIIUII ULMIIfl J
KAISER AT FRONT, CHEERS ON TROOPS
WILL ASK COURT i
TO STOP PARADE
ST. PATRICK'S DAY
Head of Hibernians Says
Mayor Favored Permit to
Suspended Faction.
A factional tight In tho Anclont Or
der of Hibernians over supervision
of th'e, St. Patrick's Day pnrado In
volved the city administration to-day
when Hoderlck J. Kennedy. President
of tho New York County organization,
Instructed his counsul, J. Powor Don
netlan, to bring Injunction proceed
ings In tho Supremo Court restrain
lug rertaiu persons who have obtalnod
a parade permit from Police Commis
sioner Woods from marching up Fifth
Avenue on March 17. Kennedy as
serts that his branch of the organiza
tion should have been granted the
permit and was turned down for po
litical reasons
For month!" there has been Internal
illsspiihlon In the ranks of the organ
ization, Ixitli fa lions rluimiug to be
the "ngolnr organization." Tho tight
was tnken to the Appellato Division,
where u derision advorse to Kennedy
and his adherents was handed down.
"We are going to tight this matter
In everv legal way," Kennedy said to
dav, after declaring that the would-bo
lnradcrs "are not Hibernians titill
ated with the nation wide and Inter
national order and havo not oven its
passwords."
"Tho plain truth," ho continued,
"is that tho Mayor docs not sen this
situation ns wo eo It. Tim Mealy,
grand marshal of tho proposed par
adrrs, was an active Mltchel man and
John J. O'Connell, also in tho samo
element, was secretory of tho Mltchel
League. Ilealv is .1 Coroner.
Wouldn't It be great to havo a coro
ner lend a St. Patrick's Day pnrado?
Mealy with County Clerk Schneider,
Hyrd ami others succc ded In getting
Mr. Mltchel nominated. At any rate
thev were largely Instrumental in
accomplishing thai result.
"It may be natural therefore that
he i.honld bellovo their side In prefer
ring to that of the Ancient Order of
Hibernians which bus conducted tlio
pnrado In this country for the past
ono hundred years.
The htispi'iislon of the Ilcaly fne.
lion, Kennedy said, wa.i due to their
nou-p.iyineiil of diieH in the nation il
iirg.ituziit em. Pollovtitig then sun.
pension, lie h.u . ''iev urti, mzrd nnd
ehi'ted lle.ily urn id marshal.
WHEAT PRICES SLUMP
ON U, S, CRISIS TALK
Chicago .M.ukei Report That Ureak
With Germain Is Near Causes
Seven-I'uiiu l.ih.
CI III 'Aim. Ki'i. :'l. i,B u:lntlH
rumo'H Hint draxilr roii-iiiieiieiH
would ii'etili from iiiiMiiiii bet vi ecu
Was.iiugton and Hi rlin regarding
Geriii!in, ' Kiihni.it Ine polity rntlsod
a Ineuk of uiori lima T tents ,i bushel
to-day in Ihe p'Mi ' "' .. Ii.'.it, . roin
p.il'iil wli'i values I'linvut railier III
tile hl'Hstoll
The gist of i.ic niinois iv. is i Inil
tin' hninliiig of pa'xpuiiii to the (je.
mau Ambassador naq Imminent.
IT COST $400,000
FOR FORD'S EFFORT
TO STOP THE WAR
Last of the Doves of Peace
Who Went to Get the Boys
Out of Trenches Return.
HE MEETS THEM IN BAY.
Pending Final Battle the Strug
gle for Peace Will Go
Right On.
Henry Ford, peace advocate ex
traordinary, went down tho Hay to
day on the coast guard cutter to moot
tho steamship Nieuw Amsterdam of
tho Hollnnd-Amorlca Line, which
brought back to thoso shores the last
of his expedition to "get tho boys out
of the trenches by Chrlstmns." As
tho customs, boat drew alongside the
llnor tho delegates hung oveV the
rail, nnd, led by Gaston Plantlft of
Mr. Ford's forces and business man
ager of the pcaco argosy, gave "three
rousing cheers."
Mr. Ford scrambled nimbly tip tno
ladder to the steamship and was In
stantly surrounded by his disciples
nl pence, who eagerly nnd In unison
poured Into his cots the story of
their wondrous micccss In educating
warring Ruropo to an appreciation
of their doctrine of gentleness. Mr.
Ford was greatly pleased with the
report. Tho delegates wore so pleased
that they wrote It out and handed It
to tho ship nuws reportors.
The delegates were: Uaston Plun
tlff. P.. S. Neely. 11. U. F.ngllsh, Jo
seph Jefferson O'Neill, former Gov.
L. H, llnnna of North Dakota, Judge
and Mrs. Ben II. Llndsey of Donver,
Mrs. Frederick Molt of Detroit and
tho Hov. and Mrs. Jcnkln Lloyd
Jones of Chicago. They admittod
thnt tha boys abroad were still In
the trenches, that tho air was still
tilled with bursting shells, but here
Is the statement:
"Tho members of th.n party admit
tho crudities and Incoherences Inci
dental to Mich an expedition, beoause
tho company was hastily gathored,
und therefore poorly organized. But
thoy claim that a very detlnlto Impres
sion was made in nt least four of tho
neutral countries of Kuropo. They
promoted u wide discussion of tho
principles of peace. They stimulated
tho pacifist workers ovorywhero and,
they believe, carried cheer and hope
fulness to the multitudes In tho
trenches, and to the still greater suf
ferers In tho homes.
"Tho returning members had three
weeks' tlmo to get better acquainted
with tho situation after tho departure
of tho main body for home, and they
nrn of tho opinion that the further
work of Mr. Ford and his associates
jjn Hurope hnd bettor bo concentrated
I at The Hague in co-operation with
similar organizations.
"To bring about proper co-operation,
In tho judgi :H of this delegation,
I neccsltates a radical reorganization
I Tho time for newspaper publicity and
popular agitation has passed. Now
. the huuler task of uulet conference,
wise deliberation and high diplomacy
j has come. "It Is tho opinion of tho
' returning members that something
I ran be done. Thu tlmo Is rlpo for
act Ion. No one can do much, but
erry one ran do noun thing, and they
mv coming hack dotennlned to eou-
tniun their work more earnestly than
' ever."
Mr. Plautlff tin . added that he was
mighty glad to bj back and said the
argosy, thus far, hut rust -Mr. Ford
; tiwi.ono.
The fjrlecutei agiecd to meet with
Mr. Ford l..'cr in tho day to disru.H
future plans. Mr. Ford said he would
i hnve nothing losay until lie had been
1 (uurg fully infoiuieJ u the miijs.lofi.
0. S. ILL FIGHT
IS THE PREDICTION
ofnorthcuffe!
."How Shall You Lock Your
Safe Against Brigandage of
World?" Asks Editor.
WAR SWEEPING WORLD.
"Nations Know You Are Not
Ready" Talks of Wilson's
Preparedness Action.
VhlUrtMrhU. All right r-wnM.)
(By a mrrtu'lfnt et th hrnln Teterntpn.)
LONDON, Feb. 17 (by mnll).
"What do I think of tho chnnco that
America must fight?" said Tord
Northcllffo In reply to n query put
to Mm. "1 don't think that hardly
half your peoplo are awaro that tho
greatest fighting olnco Christianity
began 1 spreading 'around the world
llko a conflagration. Your Middle
West papers, for example, often treat
tho local divorce cases as If more Im
portant than the tromoudous even
tualities of thla conflict. Many of
your college utudents, men who will
soon govern, know little or nothing
about this war stage or tho actors In
the affair.
"Homomber what I sny It will bo
your turn to fight. There is no in
dication that this war and its con
sequent warn will ond for years. It
may stop for three or for nix months,
nut it will burst out llko a half
smothered forest fire. It must bo
fought to a finish.
"Aiter or boforo it is all over -then
let America take heod to her
self. Khali tho Fnltod States es
cape? i'ou arc amassing huge treas
ures of gold. You aro piling up your
millions. All Uio world onvies you.
It nover apeak a ot Americans only;
It is always 'Ulch Americans." How,
then, shall you lock your safes agatnat
tho brigandage of the worldT
"Tho great war of to-day was
started by a subterfuge. In this oauo
a murder. May not mich an affair
easily be arranged In your country?
Hemember tho Maine. South Amer
ica does not love you. Nor soma of
the Orientals, nor tho Prussians.
"Nor can Mexico bo called your
friend,
"Very late in the day your Presi
dent Wilson has been touring the
country In his new programme of de
fense. Your Qtn. Leonard Wood a
fine man that, who knows about what
he talks it promulgating hla theory
of universal training wherever he !
permitted to speak. But is this pre
paredness doctrine greeted wjth opsn
arms? Your papers do not say so.
You are awaking js slowly as we did.
"President Wilson's 'too proud to
flgTit has been translated into every
language of the globe. Your Gen..
Wood, however, years ngo knew that
this war was coming. If ho hnd had
his way your country would havi
been ncaror ready for it thnn It 1h
Tho United States would not havi
found It necessary to swallow
many of its words.
"Yes, ns you say, the I'nlted States
Is a republic. Your governors and
presidents llko our politician aro not
trained war statesmen. Frequently
they como from professional ranks,
as did President Wilson. Ho has been
hard besot. Serious questions have
confronted bun smro his llrat year In
oulce.
"The world know you are not
ready in any way to defend your
selves But. you cannot expect that
your little navy and even smaller
army, will cause the world to respect
your intelligence any the more,"
Mother Pinliin Hill In rnilil.v,
AI.I1ANV. Feb. 21 Mothers' -nlon
iln I'ltlei iih nio .'IM iii a hilt Intro-
dnrpil tn-duv by A -(niilwii.iti llarra
A I'liild NelfnH I'.riiiul I- nn'iv, i i In
must tillon in, -r to im'Joim. h ho
Hind- W re I'Vlilenl" lit the Stall ,111(1
jfrti imam uul'irwi ijvin in lalj count;',
MS :60,000 FALL IN FOUR-DAY BATTLE
piwoNTSi
Prosecutor to Investigate All
Bonuses Charged to "Con
struction Account."
MORE TIME FOR INQUIRY
Lawyer Marshall Says He till !
Believes Dual Subway Con
tracts Arc Illegal.
Dlstilct Attorney Swnnn Is much
Interested in the itei.ui charged as
cost of construction In the new sub
ways and ultlmatelv paid by the City
of New York. It Is possible that ho
will lay tho matter beforo tho Grand
Jury for a complete investigation.
It It can bo shown thnt misrepre
sentation was made as to the cost of
construction the Grand Jury may act.
Assistant nislrlet Attorney Lcsllo T.
Tompkins has attended tho sessions of
tho Thompson Committee for weeks.
Mo has heard tho testimony as to the
bonus of HSO.OOO given to President
Shonts of the Intorborough nnd other
gifts nwnrdefl by tho Interborough
directors to thoso who helped put
through tho dual contracts. Theso
havo been ehurged na part of con
struction cost nnd stoutly dofendod
by the Intorborough olllclnls.
Mr. 'Moss announced Into this after
noon that Lemuel Fly Qulgg will be
subpoenaed to tell nil about thnt now
fnmous $2,.VW Olllepia -hre.k. Mr
Qulgg will also bo oxamluod In con
nection with other matters relating
to subway affairs.
In tho absence of the chairman,
Senator Georg V. Thompson, tho
legislative Investigating committee
met this afternoon only to adjourn,
Assemblyman Aaron Folnbcrg callod
the committee to order. Louis It,
Mnrnhall, who wns counsol for tho
Admiral Uealty Company In tho liti
gation to prevent tho city from enter
ing Into tho dual contracts to build
the new subway, uddrussod the com
mittee, WANTED TO GIVE THEM ALL
THE DETAILS.
"I havo coiiw hero," ho said, "to
give this committee tho complete
history of tho Admiral Itoally Com
pany suit. I have JuhI returned to
town and learned that certain gen
tlemen connected with tho caso were
examined yesterday. I do not think
the history of the caso Una been fully
and uccuratoly explained. 1 am
hore voluntarily, without subpoena,
(Continued on Second Page.)
"NEW YORK RESERVE"
CALLEDjOR IN BILL
.WniWy Measure I'roviJe.s That
Youths of KiRhteen He hmdled
for Two Years' Military Service.
ALHANY, Fob. 24.- Creation by the
Governor of the "Now Yuri. Unserve,"
to lo composed nf nil eighteen nnd
nineteen year old innlo citizens of tho
Stnto who are not members of the or
ganized militia, would be aiilhnrl.ed
by a bill introduced in Uu, Legislature
lo-ila by J Leslie Kiliraid, I'liulrma'i
ot iln- Assembly .Military AITrurs 'om
lllllter. The measure Viould empower Urn
(iowriior to piesi'iibo tho nut lire und
number of the drills which ara not to
exceed tori of two hours tiaell, and
two wei ks of Held srrvlro annually
Pse of ot Hi rrs and men nf the national
guard and their armories nnd other
propel l y would tie iiroviibd foi I1
Hie uuaHliro hfioini a law eei
young man in the Stnte immiM I in
rolled in the ie rrve on lea.'hniK the
age ot eighlr, ii and div 1i.ii ij' d a'.
USO ut iwcut,
FRENCH CLAIM;
FOR THE
TAKES BRIDAL PARTY ON
LONG TRIP TO WED HERE
vxi? ; Jtrf "dpi
,s-"S i'j-
iiarf.-'ii
5
wAu'icn i.isidaLM wnfy
WAu'if'B I.IMdOLM WTTTft'
y
Morgantown, V. 'a., Not Like
.New York for Nuptials, So Mr.
Fry Brings Guests Along.
Walter Lincoln Fry, a Sprlnglleld.
Muss., manufacturer, decided Mor
g.intown, W. Va., was no place to get
married In, even though It had pro
duccd Miss .Margaret Sutherland, thu
girl hn was engaged tu marry. Thoro
foro h brought Miss Sutherland to
Now Yoik yesterday, together with a
clergyman, tho git I'm parents and n
full bridal patty, and tho ceremony
was performed In a private suite In
the Vanderbllt Hotel.
Charles F. Sutherland, the brldo's
father, manages tho tstato of tho
Into United btntoH Senator Stephon II.
F.IMns In West Virginia. Th"e ro-
riancc which cillminatud In his daugh
ter's wedding yestcrduy began nvu
years ago, while the young lady was
attending the. si huol of tho Misses
Trwkepbuiy, nt luiiigton-on-thc-lludxun.
JESS WILLARD NOW
Oil WAY TO NEW YORK
leaves Chicago and Will
rrive Here To-morrow to j
Begin Training.
CHICAGO, Feb. .'I. -Champion .Ins- .
Willnrd nnd his manager Tom Jones;
left Chicago for New York cm thei
Twentieth Century Limited tliU after
noun. The had not planned to leave
until night, but determined to mh,
their Joiiinr afltr a conferenrc this'
morning. (
SAILING TO-DAY.
tr,'.' s.
.; it
Ik
Panama, Colon 3 P. M,
San Giovanni, Naples (J 3 P, M,
GREAT FRENCH FORTRESS
Berlin Officially Reports Capture of
Five Strong Positions by Crown
Prince Paris Admits Loss of
Ground, but Says Line Is Held.
WIN FORTS AT ANY COST,
ORDER OF THE EMPEROR
COPENHAGEN. Feb. 24. Kniscr Wilhdm Ims ar
rived ut the Verdun front to encourage his troops to the
greatest efforts, according to Berlin advices to-day.
The Kaiser, the reports said, addresses his troops cacli
day, urging them to conquer Verdun1 at any cost, '.r
BERLIN (via London), Feb. 24. Five French positions wllliin a
radius of seven miles of the Verdun forts have been captured by the
Crown Prince's army, it was officially announced this afternoon. They
are the villages of Bj-nt-sur-Meusc, Haumont and Samogneux, and
Herbe and Caures wooas. Samogneux is six miles north of Vcrdu
on the east bank of the Metisc.
'Hie War Office also reported the capture of the wooded district
north and northwest of Beaumont.
The text of the War Office report says:
"Tho success wo obtained cast of the Mouse has been exploited
further. Tho villages of Ilrabant, Haumont anil Samogneux have
been captured. Tho entire wooded district northwest, north, and
northeast of Ilcaumont and tho forest of llcrbo urc in our pos
session. "South of Mots on advanced French post was taken by u surprise
attack. Tho entlro garrison of fifty men was captured."
Kaiser Sees Crown Prince's
Army Smash Way at Verdun
LONDON, Feb. 24. Under the eye of the Kaiser, the Crown
Prince's army has smashed forward to within gun range of the great
fortress and city of Verdun in one of the greatest battles of the war.
Reports from the battlefront indicate that the losses on both side's
are probably well above 60,000.
German heavy siege artillery will be brought up at once against
the Verdun forts if the Teutons can maintain the positions they claim
they have gained. The French position in the Verdun angle consists of
row after row of strongly fortified field positions, extending for miles both
in front and in the rear of Verdun.
French Line Is Not Broken,
The Paris War Office Claims
PARIS, Feb. 24. At the War Office to-day it was pointed out
that although some ground had been lost by the French north of Verdun,
where a German attack in enormous force has been in progress for the
last four days, the French lines have not been broken at any point.
Great confidence was expressed that the lines, would continue to hold.
It was officially admitted that French forces have been compelled
i to evacuate the village of Bralunt-sur-Metise, less than eight miles nortl)
of Verdun. The French have also lost part of the Caures wood, four
'miles east of Brabant, the War Office reported, but have repulsed othev
heavy German attacks.
The text of the Paris War Office statement is as follows:
"In Artols a struggle with grenades lit In progress to the east
of Souchcz. lu the rcglou north of Verdun tho struggle continued
all night with tho samo Intensity along tho right bank of the Meusa t
ns far ns Ornes to tho south of Ordes. Owing to the violence of the
bombardment of our udvauccd position at Ilrabant Sur Mouse our '
troopH luvo evacuated this village under cover of night, protected JT
by thu tlaiikltig tiro ut our positions on the left bank of the Mouse. '
"An attack directed on SanioKiieux has boen repulsed. A strong
attack which was participated In by nt leant one brigade was
laiiiiche.l by the enemy In the Forest of Cmires. This attuc) suc
ceeded In taking one part of thu forest. Wu still hold tbo southern
end. All the nileiislves directed acaliut llcau-.uout, In front of
which o are rtaijllthc.l. hhe failed lu dUhiJgo us To the east
uf i ho front nttK'i,ed we ioiiI our litir, In fru:u ot Orncs. whero 'w'
our force hold a ravino situated to tlto south of llerhe Forest.
- ;m? rwireat wi our uo&uj
iu mww sections uieo wu av.'
.'3
. i
