T -rT9'r-"-t-fif- -M
'Mt,iiMK'.,-"wi.w;3,itn
FINANCIAL EDITION
MBTa
1
tSA jtimtttut
NIGHT
EXTRA
w
wj
yoL. n.-No. 140
PmJjADJ2LPiIIA, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY: 24, 1t.
CortmaliT. 1010, m TUB FlbMc Lsnacn Cmtrj.M.
PRICE OKJS CENT
wawigftuawii wckiiiffw umi-mpiwww" m- itkvmmmmtSm
. atffok &fSK
ihtmtT
I
1.
I
PRESIDENT DEFIES CONGRESS;
"STANDS PAT" ON REFUSAL TO
WARN CITIZENS FROM LINERS
Congress Leaders
JNot Kecognize (iermany's U-Boat
Edict With Reference to
Armed Merchant Ships
panger of Break With Berlin Grows Stronger Demo
crats to urge reace ac Any rice Wilson
to Prevent Passage of Resolutions
, by Committees
' WASHINGTON, Feb. 24. Strong intimations that Ger
many's latest plans for submarine operation will not be put into
practice on March 1, as was planned, but instead will be delayed,
were obtained in German diplomatic circles here this afternoon.
Count von Bernstorff, the German Ambassador, refused cither to
deny 'or confirm the report.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 24. Secretary of State Lansing has
arranged a conference with President Wilson at the White House
for late this afternoon.
It. is understood that they will canvass anew the interna-
' tfonal situation.
Both the White House and the State Department refused to
make any statement regarding the conference.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 24.
President Wilson today defied Congress to interfere in the international
relations of the United States. He declined to receive Representative Flood,
chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, who was commissioned by
a number of his colleagues to tell the President that if he persisted in his de
mands that Germany refrain from attacking armed merchant vessels without
warning, Congress would ass n resolution demanding that passports be re
fused Americans who would not agree to remain off such vessels.
- He told Representative Flood over the telephone that he intended
"standing pat" on his original demand to Germany that it agree scrupulously
to observe international law in any new submarine campaign that may be
undertaken and that he would not consider any legislation designed to "keep
Americans off armed belligerent vessels."
Simultaneously with this announcement, Secretary to the President
Tumulty, canceled all of the President's engagements for today and tomorrow
with the exception of tomorrow's Cabinet meeting.
Soon after the Senate met today, Senator Gore, of Oklahoma, sought
to introduce resolutions warning Americans to keop off belligerent ships.
(Senator Brandegee (Republican), of Connecticut, objected to the resolution
"BWrl'jnVi.li.t. fh. -riiloa rtf ihn Rnintpr.Sonntni f5nTV tfha1 iirmhla in lnv hfnfntt.ii
icf pro 'that body, He said 'lie Would
rtiplution later. '
"Th ship, df state is driving
(crted that to fail to prevent this nation "to driveheaaiong into the bloody
whirpooVof war" would be a "crime against civilization."
Senator Gore's resolution was in a new form. It, was a concurrent
resolution, which called simply for action by the House and Senate. It would
not need the approval of the President. It declared the "sense of Congress"
tpboithnt the Americans in behalf of their own safety and the vital interests
of the country should forbear to travel on belligerent ships. The resolution
took ,a fling at the President by asserting that "Congress is vested with
the sble right to declare war."
The President has taken personal charge of the .negotiations with Ger
many. Until a definite settlement is reached, or a break comes, officials said,
uewll remain in closest touch with Secretary of State Lansing. It is under
stood to be the intention of the President to bring, the negotiations to a head
without any unnecessary delay
The i German reply tp Secretary Lan
Hjig'a Informal communication of a week
iW, hi which Germany was asked whether
the nfew declaration that commencing
March. 1 all aimed merchantmen will bo
sunk without warning docs not abrldgo tho
cromlso previously made by Germany to
thlH rnuaK,iian, ...III Vta rt1 Ml 1111 1 Pll ttt tO
f. ...... Ur,v,,llt,C,ll, ,11,1 u ww, -'-
. Secretary Lansing lato today or tomor
row. ,it may be the medium of tho Presi
dent (lemandlng a speedy reply 10 mc
main points' at Issue, Inasmuch an It Is
stated to be u question hi turn as to Just
what (his Government considers defensive
armament for merchant craft.
In reply to this query, the President
may, officials say. ask that Germany make
prompt reply to the original question. This
eailly could be done, as tho Administra
tion has refused to accept the promises
lll&dll 111 tlm T nUtnnfn fHlHA Which WQTQ
EL expected to entirely dispose of the sub-
manna issue.
"Congress should not take any action
that would embarrass the President and
the State Department while diplomatic
negotiations are In progress," declared
Senator Stone, chairman of the Senate
Foreign Uelatlons Committee, after nu
weroui coirfercuce.s with- Senators and
wpreientatlves today. "If Congress Is
(9 take anv net Inn. it should be delayed
K jntU all diplomatic efforts have been ex-
wiea."
Senator Stone said he believed no action
vould be taken In either branch of Con
fess at this time.
Representative Shackleford also ar
ranged a conference with Senator Stone.
It was understood tho capital that the
President took the position that the ex
ewtlve branch of the Government la re
sponsible, for the conduct of the nation's
foreign relations and that he proposed to
shoulder that responsibility without pay.
Ing any heed to what Congress might do.
The HMniln, tiirata-la whlnh HftlKPfl tllfi
Mouse yesterday continued In a lesser de
free today with excited conferences In
Vrogress all oer the Capitol, Administra
tion supporters, and even some of the
Juers of the movement against the
"estdent did their best to allay, the fevej-
Mcltement.
Th situation In the Senate became
tease for a few moments when Senator
Continued en I'at Tno. foluuiu Tno
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philaitlphia and vieinity-r
aln or alht tnninhf fallowed bu
, l 'taring Friday; not much change in
''Wvtruture; strong easterly winds,
"mfting to westerly Friday.
For details see, page 13.
J.OST ANI FOUND
'2 . wt u
1JBT. KHWAltU
It.
"t2K.-VJIt.llI
fUt'lK ll'l J
C '"' IU.HVUAQ t-oT. eoouioios kwa, 3
I KS iin ..uu money In U-irlni it r.
2fe,J 2- rcwrd Call Lacujt UW-
" ?iU,( and 1'oiuxl Ad sit I'ujca H
Told That U. S. Will
make ; apTnietf mttempt 'to'pSatW
' h ?X ' T ; : '
headlong upqhytne .Weaker,'-', declared'
GERMAN RAIDER
SCUTTLES PRIZE
IN DASH TO SEA
Men From Moewe Choose to
Sink Rather Than In
tern Westburn
13 SHIPS THEIR BOOTY
NEW YORK, Feb. 24. A German
commerce raider Is cruising off the
coast of (he United States, according
to a wireless message picked up by
the Italian liner Giuseppe Yerdl,
which arrived from Genoa today.
Captain Maggi said he received the
wireless warning from a Canadian
station two days ago while approach
ing New York. (
The Verdi arrived carrying two 3
inch guns and will sail with them de
spite the Austrian threat to sink
armed merchantmen without warning
after March 1.
LONDON. Feb. 21.
Qerman commerce raiders, wlw yester
day ran the captured British steamship
Westburn Into the port of Santa Crux.
Canary Islands, dashed out to sea earl)'
tbday uud scuttled the vessel, accojdjng
to I.loyd dlspitehe from banta Crur.
It Is assumed that (lie .SOS passenger
taken from other vessels reported nuult
b the Woewe were put ashore by th
Oermans and will be permitted to make
tljelr way to Bnjlaud.
The German oltlcer in command of the
Westbun was informed hy the Hpantsu
authorltles In the Canary Islands that the
ship would have to leave or be Inttrued.
Ie immediately ordered steam up and
took the vessel outside the Spanish water
and 'had hta prlis sunk. The German crew
returned to P"' In, small boats and will
be interned until the end of the war
When the Westburn put lata Sant
Cruz her Uennan commanaer requested i
the Spanish, authorities to srant him time
to mWe 'ncsar repairs.' After iu,
impaction lbs Sp-uIh authoritleu deuided
uo rpalrs were becewary nd ordered (he t
Westburn to leir 1 J ur. Three
boure latr the viel left Ww bwbfir
BREWERS' PROBE
MAY BE BLOCKED
BY FOX APPEALS
Recalcitrant Witness Out
of Jail Pending Habeas
Corpus Hearing
WRIT FOR PHILADELPHIA
Two Wealthy Brewers Here
Faco Position Similar to
New Yorker's
PITSHUrtGH, Fell. 24. Hugh F Fox.
of New York, secretary of the United
States Brewing Company, was released
fiom Jail today on $1000 bond, following
his commitment yesterday for refusal to
testify before the Federal Grand Jury In
Its Investigation of brewers' alleged c.
pendltures In political campaigns.
Release was granted by Judge W II
S. Thomson, of the United Stntos District
Court, after habeas corpus proceedings
were Instituted this morning by Attornoys
David A. Heed, of this city, and S. P. Tull,
of Philadelphia. The writ was granted
pending argument of the habeas corpus
proceedings, which has been set for next
Tuesday ut 10 o'clock.
The brewers' attorneys. It Is said, ex
pect nppeais on the Fox case to reach the
United .Stales Supreme Court and to delay
the Government probe Tor at least six
months,
FOX IN TICKLISH POSITION
Attorneys who are watching tho case
declare Fox Is In a dllllcult position. He
has been committed to jail for failure to
produce hooks, and he cannot be freed un
til he clears himself of the contempt
charge by producing the books, and
should he free himself by producing tho
books and records the Government will
; probably proceed against him for per
I Jury, he having testified that the books
mid records were destroyed.
I Judgo Thomson this morning Issued n.
writ or attachment for Charles V. Ettla,
of Philadelphia, seorctary of the Pennsyl
vania Bicwers' Association, who was
subpoenaed to appear hero today, but
Instead sent word to tho Government
prosecutor that he was 111 and could not
appear.
District Attorney H. I.owry Humes, In
asking for tho attachment, stated that
he had good reasons to believe that Ettln
was only feigning Ulceus and that his
failure to appear here today -was a plan
to oil cum vent the Government officials.
Action similar to the proceedings
against Fox were expected In the caso
of two wealthy browers of Philadelphia,
who also lefused to testify before the
Grand Jury.
,PHU.ADEIjPHIAN'S INVOLVED.
rThey are Edward A. Schmidt, former
president of the United States Brewers'
A3spuuuiuii1vjjrniaeit,piJxna ..iXPJWwesi'
WnJl.VfoaJanS6tttySfcllKfiria'nilfc
Udqit of'thtf CtBohmldtrft' 'Sorf 'Brewing
t-oropany, ot mis cuy ana jonn uarainer,
.president fffth$ Pennsylvania Browers"'
Association. jApotKer brewer threatened
jvlth a Jail term In connection with tho
natlonnl "slush fund" probe-Is Gustav W,
Lembeck, of Jersey City, treasurer of the
United States Brewers Association and
president of the Lembeck Brewing Com
pany, of Jersey City.
Tho complaint against Schmidt, who la
president of the Northwestern National
Bank of Philadelphia, which tho Govern
ment believes Is the national depository
for the brewers' so-called "national
slush fund," the presentment sets out
as follows:
"That Schmidt, as treasurer of the,
Pennsylvania Brewers' Association,'
foiled to produce books, correspondence,
records and other data set forth In the
subpoena.
"That while admitting he was treas
urer of the association, and had been
for several years past, he failed to
produce data-called for In the subpoena,
particularly canceled checks, check
books, books containing check stubs,
passbooks and other records pertaining
to the receipt and disbursement of
moneys.
"That, questioned with reference to
these moneys before the Grand Jury, he
refused to answer.
Carpenter Hurt by Fire at Olney
A carpenter who stumbled from the tern-'
porary floor planktns on the second story
of a bulldine operation at 5th street nnd
Tabor road, Olney, Is In a serious condi
tion nt the Jewish Hospital from Injuries
sustained when he fell to the eround, He
Is Frederic!; Schaeffer, 28 years old, 2 HO
North Fail hill street.
COP GINGERLY CARRIES DYNAMITE
ABOUT CITY LOOKING FOR OWNER
Ttfan Found With Stick of Dangerous Explosive at Arm's
Length Transfers His Burden to Police, Who
Want to Get Rid of It
Somewhere In West Philadelphia a,
policeman is roaming with a stick of
dynamite In his hand, Until ho finds
the owner the residents of Haddington
and the police ot the 61st and Thompson
streets station will not sleep In peace.
The explosive rested In a comfortable
bed In the police station last night, und
the room In which ft lay was constantly
guarded by two cops. fot the slightest
Jar or noise was allowed In the place,
and two 'drunks" who were affected
with sneeilng spells today were sent out
in the yard during the hearings, so that
the concussion would net affe?t the dyna
mite.
i. .. nU ihmML-li continuous telephone '
calU that the police heard thti explosive l
was in the neighborhood.
-There's man roaming wild with a
stick of dynamlto In hie hand," said one
fr ahtened leidiat.
irlgnteneoi i
. n.k.nt,ltt liau Itmkfui loaiu, nul i
'jn .,-- -- - " - T-
?3d apd Jlaverford avenue." said an
other
'There's a .guy ruuumic oiw wuu mmr i u on i.iuutenant Kwiiiir, am In explaiu
mite who's going to blow us uu," wa ' lag mattew generally the lluteuuiit .
another oomplalut, g)nerd It Qn,,Abraiu agaiiL
Sergeant Abrnma sent Moyuttd Poll4 The dynaniUe was tlien plaued in a. bed
men McCready and Rowland to capture In one of ?rgeapt McMullln's rooms, and
the dynamiter, and they galloped alt er two stout oopa"vere ScteuteoVto guard U.
the neighborhood. Finally, they dlscov- By waj of further precautions, a. Ig
end u man near Dltli und Cullowlilil labeled naiulte" was tacked on the bed
streets walking iu the street with a stlefc lotwu doer.
of real dynamite In his lutud. He held It i HeatttlBg: that the owiwr of th exulo
far from hie body and looked panic- U ontef bm foutid tbe limewnt a,
stricken A papar- wrapped around the i signed ilUJready tu Hie ih of dituvriug
explsolve, announced that it was actually him in Wet HWUm1Ipu(i IU tuok tlw
dynamite dn4init uut of tba bed
The cape mneuerd eaullously Jf ib oejj, ?fw & ieSkaiu bU horse
iviicr? yi jiw j,w. " ujimuiui
asked McCready as he watched from- a
ed wol reaay as ne wauned from, a
&U dWawe. . .
""""" -
tm eiriuif er ejf uw iki auMeusiy
im JI?
E. YATES WEBIJ
Representative from North Caro
lina, who is trying to force im
mediate action on the resolution
warning Americans not to travel
on armed belligerent ships.
CRACKSMEN TAP
SAFE IN CHURCH;
GET $1500BOOTY
Golden Chalices and Jewel
ry Taken From Chapel
of St. Patrick's
FINGER PRINTS A CLUE
Burglars blew open a vault in tho
basement of St. Patrick's Catholic
Church, 20th and lllttenhouse Htreets, early
today nnd carried away chalices nnd
jewelry said by the pollco to be worth
$1G00. Disturbed In their work, they left
behind clues which aro expected to lead
to their nircst.
This Is the third attack by burglars
upon n Catholic edifice within a week, tho
Cathedral and tho Church of St. John
the Daptlst having been entered and
robbed several days ago. Similarity In
tools and methods in tiio three robberies
cause tho pollco to believe that the same
band Is responsible for all threo "jobs."
Flnirar prints, an Important clue, were
ssm
.. 'They were so" clear that a pollce-uuronu
photographer was enabled to tnke a plo
turo of them. Ab soon as the places are
developed tho marks will bo compared
with those of all yeggmon on file In the
rogues' gallery.
How painstaking wns the search for
the secret vault was shown by evidences
of an Inch-by-lnch scrutiny and tupping
of tho walls, which were stripped of their
pictures. Tho location of tho vault Is
known only to Mgr. William Kleran, rec
tor of tho church, and tho Itev. John I'.
Thompson, assistant rector. It contains
gold objects nnd Jewelry left by com
municants to bo molded Into church ves
eels and ornaments.
52000 CROWN OVEIU.OOKKD.
In their hasto the burglars overlooked a
diamond-studded golden crown valued nt
J20001 and two chalices worth $600. They
wore evidently frightened away by ate
communicant who visited the chapel.
Tho articles Btolen were four golden
chalices, valued at 1200; a 575 cerbor
turn, two gold watches valued ut $50, and
several rings and other trinkets, the last
named the property of the sexton, John
Leahy. Monslgnor William Kleran, rec
tor of tho church, placed a much lower
estimate on the 'value of tho stolen ar.
tides.
The robbery was discovered by Leahy
about 5 o'clock' this morning. Tho safe
had been drilled and blown open with
nitroglycerin, . evidently silenced with
homo new preparation, for no one heard
the explosion. Mortar and other debris
was scattered on the floor of the chamber,
which Is directly behind the chapel altar.
Father Thompson, assistant rector ot
the church, bitterly denounced the men
who committed the robbery.
and declared that he found It.
"What nre.jr.ou carrying It a
asked HQWland.'1
around forJ"
"I'm afraid to lay It down," said the
Inan.
"What did yoji Iqk It up for?" de
manded, McCready. t
"I don't know ; f Judt couldn't hlp It,"
said he of the dynamite stick.
The stranger promised that he wouldn't
drop It on the sidewalk If he was ar
rested, so, therefore, he was captured. 31c
Cready was going to sendfor the wagon.
'Can the wagon," said the stranger.
"Tho, jar may t tills thing eft."
The ecus aereed with him. and ihv
walked the rTsener between their liorsoe
to the police stijtjon
, VeOready uk the dyimmWe gingerly
'' 'e P1.0""'' wl,a !Kl,a '' ws Ja'"
Oowee. of Sist street and Hazel ave-
nue aIld ,, ,.. amH-ir.
Smiley passed it to Sergeant Ab
,. r. - . . " ,r . ....-y.
rum. who mauaeed to slln it to
fiereeant MuMuIImi. IIa flimHi' -ultiA,r
iim tute nana ana ine Uiuamite with
the other, does no find ttia a.nr nt .h
the other, does not find tb owusr of the 1
uiMustv.. he mm ku. te take it w bf.cVlLu uotitle euUa wJ.n .ST.
iiw. uy ww nave w taw it U blf id
wtW lUm tejujjbj, '
CROWN
SMASHES WAY;
NEARS VERDUN
Germans Drive French
From Towns Six Miles
From Great Fortress
REGAIN HERBE FOREST
Capture Brabant, Beaumont,
Ilnumont and Samogncux in
Series of Terrific Attacks
LONMJUX l-'cb. SI.
I nder the eye nf the Kn'sor, the I'limn
I'rlnco h army 1ms smashed forward to a
point six miles fiom the gtr.tt fortress and
cllv of Vorduu In one of the grcnteit
battles of the nnr.
The Gel man Wnr office tills afternoon
announced the captuio of the Milages of
Ilrnlmiit-tur-Mcust?. llu'imoiit and the
Itcrbc wood, within less than eight mllcii
ot Verdun, mid also the captuio of
s.imognacu.v u tune sis miles fiom Ver- i
dun's northern outsltlilu j
The !ciiiwiii. have nlm tiil.en nil l'ie i
fotest dlstr.ct to the northwest, nottli ,
and nortlie.iM nf this region.
Hy their iidxauce tin- Germans have ,
taken po-isctslon of Beaumont as well as '
i lei no Jiota. the icpit aUtie. ,
l ho CJei mini War Olllco icpoited not
only grent ruIiih against the l-'icnch posl-
tlons iiiouud Verdun, but the capture ..f n J
I'rench advance post with a KUirLsnn of.
50, south ot Metst.
The text of' the olllclal leport fullows:
lows :
"Our success on the emit "bank of the
Mouse has been Increased by further e-
plolts, We 1iae captured tho llhiKes of I
Uiabant. Uuumont. Snmoencux. The en-
tire wooded district to tho n.iithWeHt.
north and northeast In In our pcissesuloii,
as well as Dcaumont nnd llcrbe llols.
"South ot Slotz we sui prised nil ad- ,
vnnccd French post. The cntho garilsou
of 50 wns taken prisoner." I
PAWN. Feb. 21.
French troops have evacuated lliabaut
Sur M-'isc, north of Verdun, tho Fieneh
Wnr Ofllco announced today.
Tho Oermans also have -juieceodcd In
recapturing most of the paltlmii lost i
to the French In Dols Do Cum en. cast
of Drabant Sur Meuse
Furious assaults aio bei.ig niiulo by the
Germans against tho French po.iltlnns ,
near Haumont, but the AV.tr Olllro s.ild ,
that all have been repulsed up tj date
At Samoccux. dosnlte the l.iunchimr of
enormous numbers of men In masso for-
matlon attacks, tho Germans were frus-
Continued on ree Four, Column Our
'Li. i
DEaO
Descendant of Mifflins, Wife of
Park Commissioner, Pneu
monia Victim
Sirs. Theodore Justice, descendant of
one of tho oldest famllleH of Pennsylvania
and wife of Theodore Justice, member of
tho Park Commission, died today nt the
family residence 850 AVest flaplcr street,
Germantown, Death followed a short III
nesB. resulting from an attack of pneu
monia, Mrs. Justice was 74 jrars old.
For many years Mrs. Justice bad been
Interested in charitable affairs, and, in
addition, was a member of tho board of
directors of tho Directory for Nurses of
tho Philadelphia College of Physicians.
Slio Is survived by her husband and two
children, Miss Hilda Justice nnd William
AVarner Justice.
Mrs. Justice was horn In tills city In
184B, her parents being Daniel and re
cilia (Anderson) Nenll. She wus a direct
descendant of the Mlflllns, one nf (lie first
English families to settle in southeastern
Pennsylvania, The fumlly land was the
grant of the Duke of A'ork, he having
deeded them a tract in 1680. Upon this
land, occupying the major portion of Fair
mount Park, and on which wore reared
Mrs. Justice's forefathers, among them be
ing such historic figures as Major Gen
eral ThomaB Mifllln, of nevolutlonu' v war
fame; Jonathan Mltlllu, historian, who was
the great-great-grandfather of Mrs. Jus
tice, and Governor Mltllln. Jonathan Mif
flin achieved considerable recognition
when, regarded as one of the leading
Quakers of his time, he liberated his
slaves.
Mrs. Justice was Miss Anna Xcul. Fu
neral services will bo held on Saturday
afternoon at the family home.
STORM COMING TO TOWN
Headed This Way From the South,
Attended by Zero Weather
The calm hefore the storm broods over
the cl(y today
Storm warnings were flashed along the
Atlantic coatt this morning, in advance
of the heavy gales that are espected to
sweep up the littoral tonight, Until the
storm arrives, with considerable wind In
this city, the weather will lemaln un
settled and rain may fall at any moment.
The storm will roach its greatest violence
along the Jersey uoast prubahly after
midnight, the weather bureau predicted.
The slow southward retreat of yester
day's htonn area explains why the tem
perature III tho vicinity ut Philadelphia
did not fall lower than 31 degrees, the
minimum today
EFFIMER0SUCCESS0,
AUSTRIACOSULMRZLI
II Nemico E Subito Rjcacciato
da Una Trlncea Che Aveva
Conquistato
II general I'aduriw aununda nei uo
rapixtrtu pubbjleata lerl sera dul Mipis
terp deiht Ouerra Itatluno cite gll sue
ttiaoJ In ferze tentarono. dopo una lo
lenta preparattoae dl artjglleria e laiiolo
dl Unube a inano. mi attacao contra le
ptwlzlent ItalUue sul Monte Mnl Cinya.
Fredda). '
Una degll are4aui che fecqro la re
venie wumnuotw u MiiiMi-ii r n tomato
alia a base eeu due uflkiall utorU ed tl
piloia fe4ta ll twta e gruveuieute, dopo
cMi-e Uto autticaiu am t-iuiu vellvoii
,i ..-orL in la oaKina. u, i.inn.. ! l
iaj
P0HEO. JUSTH
QUICK
U. S. REFUSES TO RULE AT ONCE ON APPAM
WASHINGTON, Fob. 34. Sir Cecil Spiiug Bice, the- British
Amb.ifaeador, tried unsuccessfully today to get this Government's
atntuo on the llnor Appnm. He was told that the United States ha,a
not do'nitcly reached n decision on tho vcseel.
HOOKING CASE T6 BE TRIED IN ENGLAND
HALAl'A, N. S., r8b. 21. Under a ruling hnnded "down in the
Admiralty court today, tho caso of the prize steamship Hocking lb
tianfcfcircd to England for trial. The Hocking, a ship of United
Stales registry, was seized with, her cargo of coal between Now York
and South America.
AUTO HITS TRAIN; ONE KILLED, ONE INJURED
TlmuiiiH Wlluon, iirojirlctor of the Halfway House, Woodbury Heights, N. J,
was 1,'lllctl mid Wulter Titj.is, a builder and friend of Wilson, was Injured when'
Wilson's utitinuoliilc, In which they were riding, crashed Into an Atlantic City
expiess train at Lawnsldc crossliur, near Camden. Titus, who is In the Cooper
lluspltiil, I'nindcn. will recover. The water connection between the engine arid
the louder wus hrohen uml the nuiclilne was demolished by the collision, which
' occurred late last nlirht.
.
CITY TREASURY BALANCE NEARLY $9,000,000
T ' '
The weckl itntpment uf City Treasurer William JlcCoach shows that tho
receipts amounted ( $J57.16'J.1C niul thVpajinenlH ' $130,904.40. which, With
,. i,,,,i , , . , .. ,, ., ... , , , .
hand hist wcel;. not lucludiiiK 4h? sinkiiUT fund account, left a
halancu on liiiml of SS.aL'L'.Tfia. 17 i't the closo of Imslncss lust night,
ntt . .- .-. ,-m . --. ,..r.-T-...,
PROPOSALS FOR GRADING .30 STREETS
I'liiposals for gr.idlng 30 Htiects located In outlying sel'tlons of the city
wcii.i-i-iulcd today by Assistant Dhector H.ildwln, at the Department of Publlc
WotkM. Tho vnrlous operations v.ill Involve an expenditure of about $75,000
and the money will corno from loan Items.
RICHMOND TO GO ON LECTURE PLATFORM
Tho Itev. Ucoige Chalmers Klchmoml, suspended from the rectorship of St."
.lohn'.-f i;pKcopnl Church for one enr by Uishop Ithlnclander, is through fighting
In the civil com is and will go on the lej'lure platform. The church will be left
In charge of the "riiiluuonu" vestry on March 5, when his appeal to tho Supreme
Court w.ill bo withdrawn, ho announced today.
31 ZEPPELINS REPORTED LOST IN WAR
COPENHAGEN. Feb. 24. Thirty-one Zeppelins have been destroyed since
' the beginning: of the war. ncrm-dlnc- tti
j Germans have bcon building new dirigibles, as rapidly as possible and are under-'
8t00l, to luive ubout fi0 , neU(m dlffercnt fron,8.
' ' '
HALF-MILLION TURKS LOST IN .WAR, ITALY HEARS
TL'JUN.JiVb. 24. On what .Is ..declared rellablo Information, the Becolo estl-J
r'W00JlPmimied-nua 'missing. ."!.., i
DR; THOMPSON "LATE" FIRST TIME IN 20 YEARS- .
IJr. JEobcit Ellis Thompson, 70 years old, principal of the Central High
School, at 13 road and Green streets, waa late today in arriving at the school
for the first time in 20 years. He remained at his homo in Haverford during
tho morning to rest his back, which he twisted whllu asleep lust night. For
years Doctor Thompson has been arriving at the Central High School often
before the teachers made their appearance. His absence at the morning session
was noticed by the teachei-H and pupils.
PRESIDENT'S NAME GOES ON GEORGIA BALLOT
AVASHINGTOX. Kol. 24. I'icaident Wilson today was notified that ho must
file with tho Secretary of State of Georgia n or before March 20 . statement
permitting Demociatlc candidates for dolegutc to the Democratic Natlonui
Convention use Ills name as their choice for the presidential nomination. The
President will send a letter permitting the uso of his name.
PRESIDENT REINSTATES WOMEN POSTOFFICE CLERKS
WASHINGTON. Feb. IM. President Wilson today, by executive order, rein,
-stated five young women clerks In tho
rormer postmaster fislte. The live were discharged by Flsko on tjie ground that
they hud been reading magazines that went through their hands as mall. The
caso had been linnglng lire for two years.
PURE OIL DECLARES 50 EXTRA DIVIDEND
Tho Pure OH Company lias declared a dividend of 0 per cent, nnd an extra
dividend of CO per cent, on the common stock. The CO per cent, dividend is
equal to $2,267,62:', and the C per cent. $272,114. Tho par value of the stock;
Is $3. so that tho dlsti (button will bo $2.80 per bliarc. Tho company passed tho
dividend on the common htock June i, 1914, The present dividends nro payable
March 15 to stockholders of record March S. Books closo February 10 to March
1 for the regular dividend, und for tho extra dividend close March 8 to March 15,
ANOTHER ARMED ITALIAN LINER AT NEW YORK
NEW YORK. Feb. 24. Another Italian steamship, the Ban augliolmo,
arrived last night fiom Genoa and Naples with twu-3-Jnch guns mounted on her
nfterdeck. She is the llfth armed Italian liner to urrlve here recently. Each
gun wns manned by two gunners of tho Italian navy, and one of tho vessel's
offlcers said they were provided with 200 rounds of ammunition. The captalq
reported no submarines had been sighted during the voyage. The San Qugllelmo
euirled 117 second cabin and 399 steerage passengers.
GERMANY BUYS WHEAT SECRETLY IN RUMANIA
HUCHAIIEST, Feb. 24. German agents have received Instructions to pur- '
chase clandestinely, no matter at what price, all available cereals so as t wisn.
vent th execution of the Kngllsh vontraet. The Rumanian Government has de
cided to declare; all cereals sold without
commission juuie to requisition.
BRITISH MINISTERS TO TAKE BONDS FOR SALARY
LONDON, Feb, 34. In response to strong agitation by the newspapers
urging thg Ministers to set the country an example of economy, preferably by
accepting reductions in their salaries, it Is announced that the Ministers have
agreed for the future to aocept one-quarter of their salaries In the form of 5
per cent, exuhe.qu.er bqnds. It Is considered extremely probable that Hie wlwl
body of the qlvil servants will be Invited to accept a portion pf their salarie
In a slmjlar form of exchequer or war loan bonds';
FRENCH COMMAND ALLIES' FLEET IN MEDITERRANEAN
I-ONDON. Feb. 24. Arthur J. Balfour. First Iord of the Admiralty,
qimouneed in the House of Commons that the general vcommand pf Jhe allied
forces in the Mediterranean lmd been given to the French ccrnmander-ln-Utf,
In the Adriatlo and its approaches to the Italian commander-lnchlen the Juim
of the Abruzzl, and the local commands to British officers.
CATHOLIC ATTEMPT REPORTED TO OUST HOLLWEQ
AMSTERDAM, Feb. 24. An attempr Is being made by Conserwutv OeiJt
olice In Germany to overthrow Chancellor Bethmann-Hellweg in fnvr (
triumvirate' composed of General von
uetierai von i'jiiKeiniyu, aceeromg io
' Pot, a Socialist organ, is Quoted as denuunt-tng the- attniri, dml;i.u. tit,i
.. . ..
MW Qiertnrwn g
-w j- xTi-i",i-M a-" wi"ttt b
NEWS
lnfnrm.it Inn vnnplilm- 1i,.it tmlni, Tim
Sun Francisco postofllce discharged by
the authorization of the official Itumantan
Hlndenburg, Admiral von Tiipilu i.
anvtces received nere touuj Ttie Wooi,
mar,
til bt dUy tattl al ilv. n, ..
i
ceaiweac
m
