y a sio usrM..LHER
NO. 34717. WTU U--RAC. 'ik GTO1 . V IBIIARY 24, 1916.OEC~T
CROWN PRIN
HUGE WEDC
FRENCH N}
280,000 GermansAd'
ing Trenches On 1
- Appalling Loss
VETERANS FROV
Allies View Mammoth Offe
Greatest Battle and Includ
and in Artois and Flan&
speesl Cable to '7.
London. Feb. 23.-Led by the e
tacking the French on a front of ti
the great fortress of Verdun.
They have broken through the Fi
depth of two miles and are within ei
of Haumont is in German hands.
The French are inflicting bloody
battle is rapidy developing into the g
French and English view it as the
which, if it fails, will condemn the
front.
Artillery Duel e 26g..Vile Prrent.
The most terriffc artillery duel in'
history is proceeding on the twenty-five
mile stretch between Malancourt to the
region in front of Etain. The great
German guns are keeping up an unin
terrupted bombardment with shae of
great caliber. The Freneh, o rudpy, are
unchaining hurricanes of lead and iron.
The losses on both sides are counted
in the tens of thousands, aecording to
all accounts. The Germans have captured
3.000 Frenchmen and great stores of
booty where they cut through the Prench
lines.
Paris correspondents describe the Ger
man losses as "appalling." The attacks
are being made by picked troops, veterans
of Russia and the Balkans, man who
took part in the first great drive on
Paris.
"In the region north of Verdun," says
a French edicial stant eased at mid
night.- the German attear is deveipag
into a very important action prepared
with powerful forces.
Gernna Gain Near Belpert.
The drive on Verdun in the main action
in a four-pronged offensive movement
on the western front. Further east, in
the hills of Upper Alsace, a determined
offensive against the fortress of Beffort
is under way. Here the German report
announces the capture of a French posi
tion on a front of more than 400 yards
to a depth of 250 yards.
The other drives. In Artois and against
the British in the Yeer region, are be
lieved to have their object in prevent
ing the allies from transferring troops
to the imperilled front before Verdun and
from re-enforcing Belfort.
75 Dragged from
Flames in Passaic
Fire Destroying Block in Ten
ement Section Causes
$300,000 Damage.
Seial to The wahiastea BeeM.
Passaic. N. J.. Feb. 23.-One of the
largest fires In the history of Passaic
swept an entire square block in the for
eign residential section tonight, making
seventy-five families homeless. The dam
age is estimated by fire officials at $200,
000. The fire broke out in a four-story
tenement house. When firemen arrived
the tenement was a roaring furnace.
The blase spread with lightning swift
ness and soon an entire block was a
mass of flames.
Seventy-five women and children over
come by smoke, were dragged from the
buildings by policemen and firemen.
Late tonight the fire was declared to
be under control.
Two firemen were badly itjured when
the front wall of a tenagemnt collapsed.
American Kitchen in Berlin. .
Berlin. Feb. 21-The American Chamber
of Commerce in Berlin, on March 1, will
inaugurate a new auxiliary kithen for
persons who are In need owing to the war.
Berlin papers speak with eatisfaction of
"this proof of American symp~athlea.''
To Pay Dividend in War Dands
Wilmington, DeL., Feb. 3.-A mmrterly
dividend of 24 per cent was desdared todai
u~on the common stock of the du Puni
Powder Company. Nineteen par cent will
be paid In Aaglo-French bads and the
remaining I per cent in insh.
Ezpa..s in Xnmsionmaisat.
Milwaukgs. Wis., Feb. ft-Two me.
were seriously hurt today- by the expie
slam of an acetiyene tank I. the waj
munitions plant of the Allin-Cheheri
Companly, at West Allies, a eubbb. Thi
injured meu wees laberegn is the begem
Parie, Pa. -A gmf of aMB was
gve today by me & d'Oreah. Es
dlet b gs t~ he seaers et the
so ee that desieee& bio 3e
4 ~.......
CE DRIVES
E THROUGH
AR VERDUN
ranceTwoMilesSweep
0-Mile Front After
es of Thousands.
I EAST ARE USED
naive Beginning with War's
ng Attacks Against Belfort
-s as Kaiser's Final Efort.
W ebiagle. Woesd.
'own prince. 20.000 Germans are at
sty-ive miles in a colossal smash for
each lines on a front of ten miles to a
ght miles of the fortress. The village
losses on the attacking troops. The
eatest of the war.
last tremendous effort of the Germans
n to a shackled defensive on every
Miskinoffs' Love
Tangle Unravels
Couple to Arbitrate and
Prince Will Leave Yvonne
for War.
speial to The Watss BeM.
New York, Feb. 23.-Life runs smooth
again for Prince Alexander Miskinot
and his mature bride, the much-mar
ried Ainee Crooker-Gouraud-Miski
noff.
Feeling themselves being sacked
down in the eddy of a far-reeching
scandal, the eeuple consented i arW
trate their diaculties late this sf
wa +
When Supreme Court Just'ee Clark
convenes his court Friday mo.-ning the
titled ones' counsel will move the dis
continuance of their client's counter
suits for separation. This will end
for the time being legal actions that
for sensational Interest bade fair never
to be excelled in the history of the
New York courts.
The prince announced this evening
that he would find solace on the battle
fields of Europe.
"I go to Russia to fight for the
Czar." he asserted proudly. "I will
have to rise before noon. I know. But
who cares? Not I."
The prince shook his head sadly
when reminded that he would be leav
ing his wife's 17-year-old foster daugh
ter. Yvonne, languishing for love of
him.
In the settlement announcement, the
lawyers covered every point except
the disposition of the pretty, pink
cheeked. fluffy-haired Yvonne. who is in
many respects the central figure of the
remarkable romance.
Lure of Drink
Traps Hunted Man
Hanel, Wanted for Heilner
Murder, Eluded Police
for Year.
epdito The Ws*aso BeaM.,
New York, Feb. 22.-The lure of John
Barleycorn was responsible for the cap
ture of Joseph Hanel, brought here from
Baltimore today and charged with the
murder of Mrs. Julia Heilner, in Flat
bush, on April 22, 1915.
For almost a year, Hanel eluded the
smartest men in the police forces of the
big cities. Then the gnawing for liquor
got Into his blood and he went into Bal.
timore to satisfy his cravings. He had
not been in the city twenty-four hour
before he was in a cell.
The police claim to have an absolute
case against the man, despite his denial
that he is the actual murderer. Fings
prints of Hanel taken today correspond
exactly with the bloody finger printa
found on the beer bottle with whieh Mrs
Heilner wes slain.
Thirty-two Zse1iaa last in War.
Copenhagen, Feb. 23.-Germany has los
thirty-two Zeppelins einoe the war he.
gan. and has sixty left, according te
staistics comuned here toaar.
Iead., Parks flowleuss
Leads.. Feh, 3.-London parks wNi be
witheut their usuai display of floweri
the sprig. On account of the heavy ft.
neseinl drain of the war, the authorities
lmeo dets not 'to peebse any more
flowere nUptl the conficet ome to as
D..l.. Ii h..a .da..
cepe.hasea, Feb. U-TBr reeort time
the'UniJthd Plates was trying to pusremN
te M West Midgaa s
-e mas.
German Gas Attacks
Endmp Cjins
adl his %a Vs W EMM,
Paris, Feb. s.- R g"t Ger
man gas attacks am the Plesrdy
front have endangered the lives
of the population of the e re
region as far beck as AimIess
twenty miles distant.
The citizens of Amiens the
morning following the gee of
fensive, arose to and a strong
odor of chloride ether is the air.
The prefect made an auto tour
of the neighborhood and found
many peasants seriously ill, but
no deaths had occurred.
Instructions have been given
the population to reserve one
room in each house as a her
metically sealed chamber for
refuge during gas attacks,
Masks- for protection against
gas are being distributed.
G. 0. P. PLANS
MANN ATTACK
Fight Will Begin if Leader
Continues to Side
with Woods.
REGULARS FAVOR LONGWORTR
FOR CHAIRMAN OF COMMfTRE
Majority Vote of Twenty-nine Claimed
by publian.-cile May
Quit Subcomuittea Leadership.
3, aJsrP F. ANWN.
Unlessf inority Leader Mann acquiesces
In the demand of a majority of the-R.
publican Congressional committee that
the present chairman, Representative
Woods, of Iowa. Progressive Republican.
be displaced in favor of one of the
"regulars," the present lull in the em
test Is liable to be rudely broken by a
concerted attaek upon the minority leader
hmself.
The "regulars' now clam tweatp-ipe
of the thirty-eight votes In the coemmt
se ta aver et Oka emils, Rgre
smaattve Meng alth,'y Ohio. They
have bees holding off final actie., heping
that Mr. Mann would openly indorse
Longworth and thus cut from under Rep
resentative Woods what they beifeve to
be his principal support. However, hav
lag the votes, they are about ready to
"put the question" and tet the chips
fall where they may.
While the regulars deny that the issue
Is along the old regular Progressive fac
tional lines, they feel that Mr. Mann
is aiding the Progressive leader, Lenroot,
of Wisconsin, to direct the fight into
just those lines.
Toe Friendly with Progressives.
Moreover, they feel that Mann has
been entirely too friendly to the Pro
gressive-Republlcans. They declare that
they stood by and watched most of the
committee plums so to Progressives, with
the result that the next Republican
House probably will find former Pro
gressive-Republicans at the head of most
of the important committees, and now
they declare Mr. Mann Is seeking to aid
the minority Progressive representation
in their effort to dictate the destinies of
the Congressional committe
Of the twenty-nine votes claimed for
Longworth. the following have been ac
counted for:
Representatives Graham, Pennsylvania;
Browning. New York: Kahn. California;
Smith. Idaho; Austin, Tennessee; Mon
dell. Wyoming: Kennedy, Rhode Island;
Johnson, Washington; Howell. Utah; Ill
son, Connecticut; Britt, North Carolina;
Miller, Delaware; Fairchild, New York;
McKinley, Illinois: Wasson, New Hamp
shire; Wood. Indiana: Roberts, Nevada;
Campbell, Kansas; Dyer, Missouri; Lang
ley Kentucky: Winslow. Massachusetts;
Mudd, Maryland, and Senator Catron,
New Mexico. Total. 2,
Representative McKinley, chairman of
the finance committee, haying announced
some time ago that he would resign from
the committee if Woods were re-elected.
has virtually severed his connection and
will send in his resignation shortly unless
definite action displacing Woods is taken.
Mr. Mann has been told the regulars will
stand behind any one of eight men-Mc
Kinley. Fordney. Longworth, Austin,
FairchilOs, Graham, Wood, of Indiana or
Johnson-If Mr. Mann will agree to sup
port him.
Exiled King OGeued Comtmanrd,
Rome, Feb. 2.-The Gasette Del P.
pslo, of Milan, states that Emper*
Nicholas of Russia has offered the corm
mand of a Russian army corps to King
Nicholas of Momtenegro, who holds the
rank of Russan field marshal,
Japsaese 3tsumeer Wrecked.
Kobs. Japan, Feb. 3.at he Japanese
stsa=uslip Tanye Mara, 13,W tons, has
sene asore .off miuann.asl svswnig,
eateinsve damage. Part of the cars. has
bee. jettisesOe. TheTamyo Marn was
beans from Hong Keeg to haFnib.
Des ans it se 3 M ,~-3j
states spalrasit smam wi
he a .adltte a- PeasStat e s vti-.
eg gigs e- the U...au Wms
afdaW~ n bum . .am
WI
AWAIT
VILLA WOULD
KILL'GRINGOES'
Hatred of Aniericans Now
Monomania of Rebel,
Say Refugees.
DEFEATS CARRANZISTAS
IN CAVALRY ENGAGEMENT
Spedal to The Washiet eid.
El Paso, Feb. 23.-Mexicans arriving
here today from San Geronimo, where
Villa has been making his headquarters
for weeks, said that the rebel chief con
stantly talks of his hatred for Ameri
cans and his desire to exterminate all
"gringoes" in Mexico.
"This hatred has become a monomania
with Villa," said one of the arrivals.
Arrivals told how Villa annihilated a
Carransa cavalry detachment about ten
days ago near Santa Ana, a few miles
from San Geronimo. It was related that
the rebel leader split his command into
three groups. One of these groups stayed
In plain view of the Carransa cavalry
who attacked them. When the fight was
well begun. Villa sent the other two de
tachments Into the Carransistas from
flank and rear.
Marion Letcher, consul at Chihuahua
City returned to that city today to re
open the consulate. Before leaving he
stated that his return to Mexico was
not to be construed as a sanction of the
State Department for the return of
Americans In general. Contrarily he
warned an Americans Interested In
Mexico not to go back until express
notice is given by the State Department
NEW STEEL COMBINE
TO SPEND MILLIONS
Bethlehem and Pennsylvania. Officials
Inspect Plants and Will Expand
Baltimore Factory.
'Harrisburg, Pa., Feb. 2L-E. P.
Grace, president of the Bethlehem
Steel Company; E. C. Flton, president
of the Pennsylvania Steel Company,
and a party of officials of the two
companies today made an inspection of
the Pennsylvania Steel Comapny's plant
at Steelton. Mr. Grace said that It
was planned to spend millions of dol
lars Inmmediately on the Lebanon,
Steelton and Sparrows Point plants.
The party will arrive In Baltimore
tonight where they will inspect the
Sparrows Point plant.
Shaple Life Urged i England.
Loadon, Feb. 3.-The National Or
ganising Committee on war savings to
day issued an appeal to all employers
of domestic servants In large houses to
draaialrreduce their staffs end close
part of their houses. The committee
also urges that simnpler meals he served,
and. that garden luziules, especlafly
from hot_ houses, he Merified i orser
to save money gad relese denmeetie
labor fee aore usefu p~s
L.ae, Feb. U~' eless Pr..
today ie a U a ebssilug thai
to tetsgumsts the
Sare believed
[NG THE PSYCHOLOGICAL M
U. S. HOLDS AX
OVER CAN CO.
Federal Court Allows Com
bine to Continue "During
Good Behavior."
DECISION SETS PRECEDENT
IN "SO-CALLED TRUST" CASES
Spgdal to 'e Waiastes Raid.
Baltimore, Feb. 23.-In an opinion
handed down today In the United States
District Court Judge Rose held that the
would not order the dissolution of the
American Can Company, but would re
tain the bill filed against it by the gov
ernment and if the corporation should at
any time hereafter do anything which
will justify or require action of the
court, there seems to be no reason why
the government should not then get the
relief to which it then should be en
titled.
What has been proved, Judge Ross
said, Is. first, that the defendant was or
ganized to monopolise interstate trade in
cans and to attain that object such trade
was unlawfully restrained. Second. For
some time before the filing of the peti
tion in this case, it had done nothing of
which any competitor or any consumer
complains or anything which strikes a
disinterested outsider as unfair or un
ethical.
Used Power for Gond of Late.
The court holds that "while it had its
origin In unlawful acts and thereby
acquired a power which may be harmful,
and the acquisition of which In any event
was contrary to the policy of Congress
as embodied in the statut& it for some
time past has used that power, on the
whole, rather for weal than for woe.
DENY BULOAR ATROCflI.
American Red Cress Doctors Report
Safety of Neutrals Is Respesed.
Berlin, Feb. 2.-It is reported to the
Overseas News Agency from Sofia that
Dr. Cornelius Webster, Dr. Brokaw, Dr.
Tonat, Dr. - Robert Parsons, Dr. George
Logan, and Dr. Peters, all Arnerlese phy
sicians attached to Lady Paget's Red
Cross hospitals In Uskub, have written
letters to the Bulgarian press denying
that they had any knowledge of alleged
Bulgarian atrocities,
In particular, they refute the charges
made by Dr. Schelena, and expres deep
regret that an American should spread
false reports about a country where lib
erty of neutrals Is respected.
OPENS DEBATE ON FEACE,
Bettish Lpberite Ten. Parliameat to
Give Us Rope of Crushimsgittry.
London, Feb. 2.-"I'here is no gend
for hope for a decisive crushing victary
on either aide In this war,' declared P.
SinoWden, a Laboi'ite member of ta
hogse of commnn, In a seeeh in the
sower camher today.
Node'ts-esch opened .the long-ag
pecad debate en peace terms a Parigp~
ment. and,ani effort is to be mae to
feres the governmmnt to snak. knowa
en- whet teemsIt, will ms eae ml
,ssym.
NN
ONE
TERM \
PLANK
OMENT.
GERMANS SEND
PRIZE TO PORT
Teuton Raider's Crew Takes
British Steamer to the
Canary Islands.
HAS PRISONERS FROM SIX
BRITISH STEAMERS ABOARD
Spedal Cable to The wahstes HEald.
London, Feb. 22.-A Reuter dispatch
from Santa Cruz. in the Canary Islands.
states that the British steamer West
burn has put in there for repairs, fly
ing a German flag, and in charge of a
prize crew, consisting of an officer and
seven men.
One of the latter, according to the
dispatch. wears a cap Inscribed "H. M.
S. Moeben." The dispatch was evi
dently mutilated in transmission, and
it is assumed here that the name on
the cap Is "Moewe," that of the Ger
man raider, which captured the Appam,
and I. still at large.
In addition to her own crew, the
Westburn had aboard a large number
of prisoners taken from various Brit
ish vessels, named in the dispatch as
the Flamento, Horace. Clan Mactavish,
Edinburg. Beige and Luxemburg. There
were also seven Spanish sailors aboard.
Westbra !hall Steel iteamer.
The Westburn is listed as a steel
steamer of 3,200 tons.
The Clan Mactavish is the British
ship which fought the German raider
Moewe and was sunk by her. Four
wounded members of the Clan Mac
tavish crew, who had been rescued
by the German raiders, were brought
to Newpert News on the captured
steamer Appam.
CMOUDS DE AIR RAIDERS.
Gersmas rly High te Eseape Eng
liah Patrols. Balfear Says.
London, Feb. 23.-To escape detection
by British air patrols. German aviators
now fly in the clouds on their way to at
tack English towns.
Alfred J. Balfour, first lord of the ad
miralty, stated In the house of Com
mons this afternoon that in the recent
raids upon Lowestoft and Walmer the
enemy aeroplanes approcbed at so great
a height that they were not observed by
the lookouts until they dived just be
fore dropping bombs.
Mexicans Honor Xadere.
Mexieo City, via Galveston, Texas, Feb.
M,-Omicials and civilians united today in
memorial services for President Madero
and Vice President Pino Suares, who were
.ees==nated three years ago. All buat
neee was suspended.
Frenoh Command in Mediterranean,
Lendon, Feb. 2.Gene~rai omamand of
thue allies aval forces I nthi Mediterra
sean Sea. has been placed in the hands of
the Frtnehe commander-in-chief. it was
anemes In the house of cmmses to
day by First Lard of the AdM My .
J. DaNer. The Duke of the Abrussi,
mamama=r-n-chief of the Itaasm navy,
has beas put in commnand of the naval
berebe is the Adriatic.
qn tzp eust Wa-umbses
WILSON IN FIGHT
WITH CAPITOL AS
U.S. FACES CRIS
Congress Opposes Determination of
President to Force "Show-Down"
With Germany on Sub Issue
TEUTON ANSWER IS RECEIVED
Berlin's Reply Believed Unsatisfactory; Con
gress, Defying Wilson, Would Warn
Americans Off Armed Ships
President Wilson and Congress. facing a genuine crisis with Germ p,
are at loggerheads on the question of policy.
The situation is unprecedented. Never before in the history of de
United States has there been an occasion when the eecutive head of the
nation and Congress have been so widely apart om a msar of such i.
mediate gravity.
As a climax to a day of chaos, the German reply to the latest dmmm l. of
the United States rearhed Washington last night. It it umdersood to 6e
unsatisfactory.
The President has told the leaders of Congress that he is determisnd
to force "an immediate show-down" with the Teutonic allies, and has warmed
them that he will not tolerate any interference with his handing of the
international situation.
Congress is equally determined that Americans shall be warned of
armed merchantmen. totally in defiance of the President's expresed wishes.
Administration advisers and the leaders in Congress last night were i
a state of uncertainty and apprehension that operated against the poblity
of concerted action. No one of them was willing to predict what the day wa
Ming forth.
WOU.D REGARD ACTION AS AFFRONT. is
The situation may best be summarized as follows:
Senator Stone. chairman of the committee on foreign relations and
the spokesman in the Senate for the administration, told his collesgusm that
the President would take as a personal afront any I-slatios re Ag the
submasrine 'snk.
Reppentative Flood. chairman of the House Foreig- Affirs Coln
mittee, will tell the President this morning that a powerful pu.p in Con
gress, probably a majority of both houses, is opposed to his plan of forcang
Germany to admit the right of neutrals to travel on armed ships.
Senator Gore. of Oklahoma, announced that he will introduce at the
first opportunity a resolution prohibiting American citizens from traveling
on armed merchantmen.
Democratic members of the House in conference last night deputized
Representative Flood to tell the President today that a resolution warning
American citizens off armed ships will probably be passed unless he aters
his position.
From the White House a telephone message went to Representative
Flood late in the afternoon, his reply to which was an announcement that
sentiment in Congress was overwhelmingly in opposition to the President.
PRESIDENT'S ATTITUDE IS DENOUNCED.
A stampede of the House in a hysterical rush for immediate action
was staved of only by heroic work on the part of administration leaders.
On the floor, in cloak rooms, and in corridors sensational scnes were
enacted, and vigorous criticism was directed at the President's plan to stand
firm in the controversy with Germany even to the point of war.
Majority Leader Kitchin declared that if the President proposed to
force Germany into war he could not count on the support of Congress.
The Democratic members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee mat
last night and decided that the situation admits of no improvement unless
the President consents to make some sort of compromise.
At the White House it was announced that Senator Stone, at the re
quest of the President, will not make his intended speech in reply to Eblhu
Root's attack on the administration.
The White House also denied that the President has approved a plan
for the adoption by Congress of a resolution warning Americans of armed
merchant vessels.
Stene Spports Wilesn. situation raver than It has been at any
Senator Stone worked valiantly through- time since the .,usitants was sunk
out the long, exciting day in the Senate Senator Stone's explanation of his de
supporting the President in his efforts ciSion not to make the set speech de
to suppress agitation of the submarine fending the President against the attaeku
question. of former Senator Root was as tnsws;
An absolute break between the Prest- "I have decided that so tar as the
dent and Mr. Stone. it was leaned yes- attacks of Ir. Root and former Pres
terday. was narrowly averted at the con- dent Roosevelt are concerned, the game
terence between the President and the is not worth the candle. Some time
chairman of the two committees on for- later I may make a few remarks of
sign relations of the Senate and House a very different character from thee.
Monday night had planned to make at this tim"e,
Senator Stone an r ood As a result of a long contereas
mn that occasion told ti President the between Senatit Stone and Represen
rravity of the situation lay in the fact ative Flood. it was stated that as
that Cngress was noWhelningly e- adios. bearing upon theD-ubmye
posed to the Pregddeti policy in the usinmabe*pte mesey
eontroversy with Germany.fo lr iv~e
The Presidet informed the two chair- Mmeso h isut4~as
nana that all questlens of foreaiign -dicssdthaitattewt 5e
soar55 must be left to the execnUis e e thsiqitSvrlo h
pritmnt. and Is said to have ittoed mem besa h eeainI h
that he would not tolste iateirii~ e or aelodlmahirda.d e
Although persaily faveting the adep-atembOsgsa ThSntoap
lion of a resolution prohibiting Aineirnnas pae ote orsettewse
traveing on armed meshnt Ships San- . h rsdn n re htd.
stor Stone flnauiy een55anted to lad themiknpblcathsie ad
light for the adadnistratiom. He ds e- peul etepbi aee
etared flatly; however, that he dii sa olmtn netoema~s a
lntend to lead a minority. Ag the sisry Pe
laed out yesterday, bit by Mt. It ap- i75 .hAtt..
peers that Otone put up to the Preidems Snt.'Sot noldea
the siatter of conspeling his party Sotame fteoni wdi
support hiam.I h ep ha ei u
Camerming this part of the wusdsa5Tp- et~mn ttesW
if Moay~e uigt'st cosnse me iU a enmheraie ht
Senators and hepreesatatives iat seh neltg * Pw lu
at se White Houes reased.V m o, eimnUaym fo d
at ,g President's reeqes. Wheen theywe ta Xph
reused to the espesl they die ant di.
-ativet~t~ U~U Flo.- a sae ht
acin ern po h uaab
