Tron County Register
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY. -
SUBSCRIPTION :
One Year, $1.50. Six Months, $0.75.
RATES Of ADVERTISING " 1
Furniilutd on Application. Special In
ducements to Borne Patrons,
Address Register, Ironton, Mo.
The Republic
Searched tne Country and Bought the Best in
. NEWFPSSFUN.
Polly and Her Pals .
V ' Buster Brown
That Son-in-Law of Pa's
Dimples Just Boy
5 Full Page Comics 5
TEN PAGES OF SPECIAL FEATURES
Articles on world topics written by the greatest thinkers and lead
ers in war, science, industry, finance, art and literature. Authoritative
articles on the latest fashions, illustrated by high priced specialists.'
1 wo pages of features carefully selected for children.
TEN PAGES OF POPULAR FICTION
p. iThe efit maSazine published by any newspaper in the United
btates. The writers are world famous. Excellently illustrated four
pages in colors printed on book paper. The "Teenie Weenies" is the
best feature to be secured for the entertainment of small children.
Next Sunday in
The Sunday R
Best in News, Features, Fun and Fiction
Excellent Service
. TO ALL POINTS IN
ARKANSAS, LOUISIANA, TEXAS
And the Great Southwest
WITH five trains daily to the South carrying
equipment of latest modern pattern and af
fording all the conveniences of of modern travel the
Iron Mountain
offers splendid service to see all parts of the South
and Southwest. , -
If you contemplate a trip I will be glad to quote
you lowest rates. v
-urns;
As to Prohibition.
Editor Register In your Issue of
February 2d, you copy fr-jm the St.
Joseph Observer a communication
' from Bev. J. P. Milbank, rector of St.
Paul's E piscopal Church at Kelling
ton, Kansas, wherein he declares his.
hatred for prohibition."
It cannot be that it1 is the general
principle of prohibition that so har
rows his feelings, for he is a minister
of the gospel, and the very first law
on the statute book to which he must
appeal in settling points at issue, con
tains a prohibitive as well as a per
missive section, see Gen. 2;15, IT.
Again, if we turn to the Magna Charta
given by the King of kings it will be
seen that all the items In it save tho
fifth and half the fourth, are prohibi
tions. If appeal is taken to. the Ke
yiEed Code, snob statutes us the fol
lowing: ' , ye ehjj.ll in n case
enter into the kindom of heaven."
"Thou sbalt by no menus come thence
till thou bast paid the uttermost
farthing." "Swear not at all." "
do not Round ll trnmnat. Uatr.r,a M,
, " f -" " J ilMCCJ.
"Thou shall not be as tbd hypocrites
are," "Use not vain repetitions as the
heathen do," etc, eto. ' . V
Nor can it be that he is opposed to
state or national prohibi clon as a prin
ciple; for in that event ie would be
opposed to more than., half of our
statutes. It is the one. isolated case
In which the law operates against
licensing the' sale of intoxicating
drinks. The argument that laws pro
hibiting the sale of alooholic beverages
is an Infringement of one's personal
liberty is just as valid against any
other Drohibitlv law, and I o inter
F. P. AKE, Publisher.
epublic
C E. DOWNEY,
Local Agent,
IRONTON, 7U0.
preted by those who would violate it.
The fellow who carries a loaded pistol
concealed about his person, feels that
his personal Hberfy is infringed upon
by the statue forbidding lb, hence he
carries it, is caught at it by the sheriff,
arrested, tried and Bent to the peni
tentiary. And all the people applaud
the officer and the oourt. It is justi
fied on the ground that it is necessary
for the public good.
All prohibitory laws operate in the
same way. They do not affect the
people who have no desire to do the
thing prohibited. The man that does
not drink is in no sense in terfered with
by a law prohibiting the sale of drinks.
I think the non-drinkers are largely
in the majority In the United States.
-Prohibition is not against the drinking,
b nt against the Bale of liquor. It only
makes it inconvenient. for the drinker
to get it. The fellows that do not
drink are not in the least incon-l
ven ienced by it, and the ones that get
drunk ought 4.0 be prohibited from
getti ng it on th9 same ground that a
man is prohibited' from carrying 'a
loaded pistol concealed on his person
that it is for the general good. The
drunk, nvan is a more dangerous man
than he. Surely the sober clasB of
drinkers who believe In the universal
brotherhood of man, and that they are
in any 8 snso their brother's keeper,
ought not; to object to the extra in
convenience occasioned them by pro
hibition, or even to foregoing alto
getber tfceir ' occasional dram. And
emphasis is laid npon the importance
of such a courBe by the fact that at
the same time, one is performing an
important service for the state in
helping to keep an. unfortunate class
of hiir citizen out of trouble and as
IRONTTON. MO., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1916.
sisting them as producers rather than
as consumers of weath.
The Rev. Mr. Milbank sees as the
fruits of prohibition a nation of hypo
crites and liars. He lives in Kansas
where they have state-wide prohibi
tion and lenowns whereof he speaks.
Bishop Eennessy also lives in Kansas
and the Catholics Advance, published
at Wichita, Kansas, and supposed to
be his official organ, in an editorial of
January 22d says: "Prohibition is one
of the corner-stones of Kansas pros
perity." Again it says,' "I here is no
apology possible for the ealoon and
those who annihilate its influence are
the saviors of their country.". I leave
the reader to judge between the two
witnessess.
Let us dissect Mr. Milbank's state
ment, "I believe i nation of prohib
itionists would be a nation of hypo
crites," and see what ground he has
for such opinion. A nation of hypo
crites would be a great host unless it
was a very small nation
. In the first place it would not make
hypocrites of those who are already
hypocrites, for they are already made.
And it is a sad fact that there are not
a few such people even in the most
thoroughly cursed saloon country.
Men who always go around to the
back door of the saloon; others who
have their liquors delivered to them
after night; still others who go into
the drug store (if it will permit them)
and hold up their hand and swear.1"
Yes, and there are druggists even in
saloon towns who get unscrupulous
physicians to write whiskey prescrip
tions, and who thus use ten or twenty
forty-gallon barrels of whiskey in a
year. These people would not be
made hypocrites by a prohibitory law.
In the second place prohibition
would not make hypocrites of those
who do not use the stuff at all, and
they form a large class when we count
people including women and youth as
well as voters. This makes it very
clear I think, that a large majority of
people would be excluded from the
hypocrite factory supposed by the
pro-saloon rector quoted above to be
run by a prohibition nation. But this
is by no means the final analysis of
his statement. It is evident that the
supposed hypocrite factory must get
its material exclusively from the non
Bypocrite 'element of "drinkers. In
other words from those who drink
openly and above board; and the great
majority of these are too manly, too
honorable to be converted into hypo
crites by any sort of law. Thus it will
be seen that the few that would be
left would form a very small. part of
the nation; and if we had national
prohibition of the liquor traffic, thiu
email minority would soon be gone,
and we should have'iustead of a na
tion of hypocrites, a nation of people
with only historic knowledge of the
liquor curse. Nelson B. Henry
From Mr. Ililnt.
Ed. RegUterH may be a surprise
to the readers of your paper that I
should make the statement and at
tempt to prove it that ministers of
the gospel, church members, men in
good social standing, and leading
men of both Iron and Reynolds
counties are committing crimes that
arajar more injurious to our country
than stealing timber, hogs or cattle
This great evil has come upon us so
gradually and quietly that lew realize
what a hold it has gotten on the com
munity.
An evil that is bidden Is much more
dangerous than one all can plainly
see. Let me give an illustration: we
will suppose thereare several poison
ous serpents coiled up on the streets
and sidewalks of Ironton. The pedes
trian can easily turn aside and avoid
them. On the other hand, here is' a
road and path all grown up in grass
and weeds in which the serpents are
hidden. No one would care to travel
the rood in preference to the street.
We certainly would not wish our chil
dren to travel the road in which the
serpents are hidden. Now the crime
of taking property which does not be
long to tnem is Hidden to many
thoughtless men, and especially our
children. For the reason that preach
ers, ' church members, bank presi
dents, county officials, prominent cit
izens, men who are otherwise law-
abiding, are taking property which
does not belong to them.
I wish to bring out this truth as for
cibly as I can, so I will giv another
illustration. A company owns a large
tract of land oovered with mining
props. The company gives notice to
the public that each one can cut a cer
tain number of loads at a speoial time
of the year. If some of these- men
take more than they can pay for and
at times that are prohibited, isn't it
stealing?
Now the state of Missouri is a great
mutual company. It owns .the fish
and game in our lakes and rivers and
live In our woods. They tell us how
many fish we can catch or kill, and
when and how we can take them.
They tell us what months we may kill
the game, bow much rauy be shot at
one '.lime, and what we must do to
have any right to kill any game at all
that belongs to the rotate of Missouri.
No man In our state has a right to
hunt unless he pays a dollar for a li
cense. No man has a right to kill or
OUR OOD, OUR. COUNTRY AND TRUTH.
take fish from our watersin an unlaw
ful way. If he does he is just as guilty
in the eyes of the law as the man who
steals cattle, hogs or timber. And if
a Christian takes this property know
ingly ho violates the law of God, for
our Savior's words are plain in
this regard: "Render unto Caesar the
things that are due to Caesar," and he
was the government. The voice of
our people is our government and
they have made this law for ns to
obey.
I have read in a paper to-day that
there was not one hunting license is
sued in Crawford county last year, 16
in Reynolds and something over 200 in
Iron. There are three classes who vio
late the fish and game laws; the first
are as ignorant as children of the law;
the second are thoughtless in regard
to the matter, have never thought it
over carefully, and 'regard the law as
a dead letter; the third class are a
lawless set and will Bteal any thing at
any time when they think they vill
not be caught at it. We have many
in Reynolds county of the first class.
It is only a few days ago that a neigh
bor of mine, a preacher, told me that
he did not know that a resident of the
county was required to take out a li
cense to hunt. He is a good man and
I know will r&t commit a crime know
ingly. Some time since I was talking with
an official of one of our Southeast
Missouri counties in regard to the uni
versal disregard of our game laws. In
the conversation he remarked that he
"never shot any more game than his
famiiy could use." That is, (he would
kill game at anytime of the year.
When I asked him how it would do for
the officials of his county to take from
the treasury just what money they
"could use," at any time they chose,
he could give me no answer. There
is no difference in taking property, or
taking; money from the state that
does not belong to us. This man was
a good man and well liked by every,
body. He had never thought the mat
ter over carefully.
Recently, in reading an article on
"preparedness," I came across the
following: "as is well known, there is
in this country much laxity in the
matter of home discipline and, conse
qnently, very little authority any
where. In some sections the people
are a law unto themselves and crime
is prevalent in many places." Now
this can truly be applied to Iron and
and Reynolds counties. Last spring
some one wrote a letter from Glover
to the Register in regard to lawless
ness in Iron county and unjustly ac
cused the sheriff of being the cause
of it by not doing his duty. I am sure
the officials of Iron and Reynolds
counties will do all in their power to
prosecute and convict all violators of
law in their counties. To do this we
must have a strong public opinion to
oooperate with them.
Now, Bro. Ake, I have a plan that I
am sure will create a strong public
opinion which will stop the greater
part of this lawlessness. It is much
better than to try to arrest and oon
vict the hundreds of law breakers in
Iron and Reynolds. The jails in twen
ty of our counties would not. hold all
of those who have violated the game
laws in Reynolds county the past
year. There are six hundred or more
men and boys who live in our oounty
who hunt in season and out of season,
and just 16 have taken out a license
the past year. Now we will try and
show that the greatest evil is not the
extermination of our game and fish,
but it is influential mon who teach our
boys by their acts that it is right to vi
olate the laws of our state.
Let me relate one instance. Last
April my grandson was out gigging
UBh with his uncle. The man proba
bly knew it was unlawful, the child
did not. The child and unole would
at once sell all the fish they could not
use. Now let me read part of the fish
law, Section 6518, Revised Statutes of
Missouri) "It is unlawful to gig fish.
or spear fish, during the months of
January, February, March, April and
December of each (year. It is also a
misdemeanor to offer for sale fish that
have been gigged or speared." Some
times you can see as many as twenty
of our best citizens killing fish in this
beautiful stretch of water, in an un
lawful way. This is what hides the
great evil to the young and they grow
up to be lawless men to swell the mob
such as we read abont in Ohio short
time ago, and be ready to dance in
hellish glee while some poor wretch is
burning.
a short time ago I read that In my
native state, which has but eight
counties, that one tndusand deer were
killed this winter, as there had been
several closed seasons. I presume
there are not one-third as many in all
Missouri, which 1ms one of the best
natural game presorvti In alt the mid
dle west. Why did so many deer ac
cumulate In this small Btate of eight
counties? Are there no lawless men
there? I presume they have as many
who are lawless at heart as we have
In our part of Missouri. Every effect
has a cause. The cause of all this
lawlessness In this section of tho state
is that publlo opinion has not been'
aroused, and the people are not
well Informed, In general, as they are
in the older states.
My sole purpose is to lead off In sj
j f
A Tremendous Cut in Prices of
Winter
Ladies' Long Coats Men's Overcoats.
Price $4.00, Cut to . . $2.00 $4.50, Cut to . . . . $2.80
" .00, Cut to . . . 3.00 .oo, Cut to .... 3.00
6. 0, Cut to . . 2-7 6.00, Cut to . - . . 3.95;
" 8.0, Cut to . . . 5.00 8.00, Cut to . . . . 5.00
" 9.00, Cut to , . 5.50 10.00, Cut to . . . . 5.50
" 10.00, " . . . fas 12.00, Cut to . . . . 7.0
Child's Coats Boys' Overcoats
1.95, Cut(to - - - $1.25 $2.85, Cut to - - - $1.85
2.00 v "... I25 3i25 . " .... 2-00
2.25 " '-, - - 1.50 :
tt0 It Blankets GreatCut in Price!
Men's Dress Shirts Ladies' Winter Waists
75c and $1.00 Shirts Cut to - 49c 1-25, Cut to - - - 75
All Sizes Great Bargains Men's, Women's and Children's Warm GLOVES, ioc.
Ladies' and Misses' Sweaters
Fine Wool Sweaters
Genuine German Dyes
Prices $2:25 and $2.50, Cut to 75c.
Come and see our FELT BOOTS, RUBBERS, SHOES, WARAl UNDER
WEAR, ETC. "We Absolutely Can Save You Money."
Ironton,
Mo.
manner that will create a strong pub
lie opinion, opposed to all manner of
lawlessness. Brother Ake, will you
help me keep the ball rolling? It my
logio is correct Bay so in a forcible
manner aud there will be others ready
to help us. In my next letter I will
submit my plan. F. T. Hunt.
Sabula.Mo., Feb'y 21.
'T'lTE Texas louder euros kidney nnd
I bladder troubles, dissolves gtuv.1. cure3
diabetes, weak and kvine biieky, rheuma
tism and nil irrecuUirities of the kiuneys and
Madder in both men and women. If not sold
by your druggist, will be sent by mail on re
ceipt of SI. Due small bottle is two months'
treatment and seldom fails to perfect a cure.
Send for testimonials from tiiiH and other
States. Dr. E. W. Hall, 21126 Olivo Street,
Est. Louis. Ho. Bold by uruek'ists. Adv.
' The History or Influenza, or
Grip.
Influenza, commonly called grip, is
one of the oldest diseases known. A
disease which was probably the grip
was described by Hippocrates 412
years before the birth of Christ.
Many great outbreaks of the grip af
fecting a large part of the known
world have since occurred. Four
groat epidemics occurred in the
Seventeenth Century. Its presence
in America is usually dated 1889 when
the first great epidemic for many
years affected ns. Since that time
few years have passed without some
cases of the disease.
The study of these outbreaks has
taught us a great deal. Like all
epidemics, the grip progresses along
routes of travel and no faster than
human beings do. Large commercial
centers are first affected, scattered
cases occuring before the general out
break takes place. Next the small
towns become affected, and lastly the
entire country. The disease appears
on board ship only after they have
touched affected ports. Institutions
which are more or less cut off from
the community in which they are
located, like hospitals for the insane,
oonvents and prisons, often escape
more or less.
Grip infection Is from person to
person, and the closer the contact
the greater the danger. Forty per
cent of the entire population fall vic
tims of the grip during epidemics.
Infants and old people are less likely
to take It than those of middle a'ge.
It Is markedly a disease of the winter
months.
TERMS- 1. 50 a-Year In Advance.
NUMBER 38.
Wonderful Bargains!
DR. P. W. TRAUERN1CH1
DENTIST
KONTON,
MISSOURI
Office In the Academy ol Music
building, Mam street.
Sundays by Afpointwimt
Sheriff's Sale Under Deed
of Trust.
Whereas, The Southeast Missouri
uoiiness university, a corporation, by
its P.firfAin rlnnrt nf tri-iaf-. ilntaA th Ttu
day of May, 1912, and recorded in the
ivouuiuor-a uiuuo in me uoumy or
Iron and State of Missouri, in Book 65,
nt page oiw, conveyed to W. K.
EdfaT. TrllHtHfl. thft fnllrtuiinn'rfaani.ik.
ed real estate, situate, lying and being
iu uiu (jounty ot iron and state of
Missouri, tn-wit,'
Beginning at a point 327 and 7-10
feet west of the center of the south
east quarter of Section eight, Town-
mup av, uuriu, ui range iour easr, and
iuo weob Diuo Ul LI1H QS. X.OUIS, iron
Mountain and Southern Kailroad;
thence west alnncr IIib eonloi. r,f tu
southeast quarter of Section eight
11.97 chains; thence south 20 decrees
. a C . i .1. . . , . . . . .
cnui., o.t ciiuiiih io ine west slue ot tne
St. l.nnifl. Tron Mountain onH VlnntV,Ai.n
Railroad Right-of-Way; thence north
miing Ham rigni-or-way a.ua cnains to
the place of beginning. Also, a right-of-way
for a wagon road along the
west side of said Railroad Right-of-Way
to the Des Aroand Brunot Public
Road, containing 6.20 acres, more or
less;
Also, beginning at a point 3.60
chains east of the southwest corner
of the northwest quarter of the south
east quarter of Section eight, in To wn-
shin thirt.v. nnrf.h. nt rnnna f.nin oa.t,
thence, from said beginning point',
running cam; witn due center line
thrnnirh Mm Bntrl onnhhnoat. niia.,.. tn
the right-of-way of the St. Louis, Iron
VI.1n, - ,1 ti 4l r ti i
4tvjuijuiu ituu ouuiiiem nauroaa,
thenn north nnd nn with fhfn ihi..
of-way fence 4.60 chains to a corner,
iiitiuut) buuiu iu ueyruBB we8i;io place
nf hftorinnirnr nnntjiinlnrr R ft a ba.am
O OF p, v.uv aiiD
more or lees, except beginning at the
street on the northeast corner ot
nam n tin trrnntirla vnns mast, ln rAf.
thence Bouth 100 feet; thence east
jiu inwiu'e norm iuu iet?C, oaCK
to the place of beginning;
Whloh onnvAvnnnn ttruu mnrla f tV a
said W, R. Kdgur, In trust, to secure
Liiw pujiumjb ui a certain noie in
default has been made in the pay
ment of the principal and the interest
dllA nn naif tint onH mairt nvlnlnal
and interest are now past due aud
remain unpaids
And urhnrona It la nonitMArl Im tint A
deed of trust, that in case of death,
remova, from the state, or refusal to
act, of the laid W. R. Edgar, trustee,
JOB-WORK
Best equipped Job Print
ing establishment in this
section of the State. We
insure satisfaction; prices
reasonable.
i-TRY US.
the then acting sheriff of Iron County,
Missouri, shall act in his stead, and
sell the above described real estate in
case of default; and, whereas, V. R.
Edgar, trustee in Baid deed of trust,
has refused to act as such trustee and
foreclose and sell the real estate con
veyed by said deed of trust;
Now, therefore, at the request of
the legal holder of said notes, and in
pursuance of the conditions in said
deed of trust contained, I, the under
signed, the duly elected, qualified and
acting Sheriff of Iron County, Missou
ri, will sell the property above de
scribed at public vendue to the highest
bidder for cash, at the east front door
of the Courthouse, in the City of Iron
ton, Iron County, State of Missouri,
on '
Saturday, February 2Glh, 1910,
between the linnrn nf nine rknnnr .
II. and five o'clock p. m. of said day;
the sale of all of said real estate being
for the purpose of satisfying said in
debtedness and the costs of executing
this trust; WM TJT ttp
Sheriff of Iron County, Missouri.'and
Ironton, Mo., Feb'y 1, 1916.
TRUSTEE'S SALE.
Whereas., Tosenh Price hv his eertain
of trust, dated the 27th dttv nt .inm. nrv 101 &
and recorded in the offlce of the Recorder oi
ivcnua mr tuo vAiumy or iron ana stale ol
Missouri, in book (a, at page 313, conveved
to T. K. Bell. Trustee, tho
described real estate, situated In the Coun-
ij ii uvH.anu niaie oi Missouri, lo wit:
All ol the Northwest quarter of the south
west quaner of section two, (2), township
thirty-four, (34), rane two (i east, con
taining 40.Wt acres; also west halt of lot two
(21, Northeast quarter section two, (21
township thirty-lour. cm. ranire two Vi
east, containing K.jffi Keren. (Subject to deed
of trust in favor .of Iron Oouuty, dated
November 10. Jtfio.) "
Which conveyance wan mnriA ti
T. i,. Hell, in trust, to secure the payment
ot a certain note In said deed oi trust
specified anddescrlbed:
Ana, whereas, default has been made in
payment ol the nrincinnl and inxmt h,,,.
on said note, and said principal and inter
est are now past due and remain unpaid:
Now, therefore, at tho request ol the leita!
holder of said note, nnri In niiraiianc ni 1 1.
conditions in said deed of trust, the under
sized trustee will sell tho property above
described at public vendue, to the highest
bidder, lor cash, nt the east iront courthouse
door in tho City of ironton, in the Couniy
of iron, Stale oi Missouri, on '
Monday, March 30th, laid,
between the hours of nine o'clock a. u. nd
Ave o'clock p. M.,oi said day, lor the pur
pose oi saiislylng said Indebtedness vMi the
Interest thereon and the costs ol executliiK
this trust.
T. B. BELL. Trustee.
Ironton, Mo., February 15, win. ,
NOTICE OF LETTERS.
Notice Is hereby given, that letters of Ad
ministration on the estate of Henry R. Hoi
land,deceaed, were granted to the under
signed, by the Probate Court of Iron Coun
ty, Missouri, bearing date the 1st day of
reuruiry, igio.
All personi bavins claimi against Mid es
tate are required to exhibit them to the Ad
ministrator lor allowance within tit months
after the date of said letters, or Ihcv miv he
precluded from any benefit of said est ate;
and if such claimi be not exhibited within
one year from the date of the last insertion
of the publication of this notice, they (hall
be forever barred. . '
This 1st day of February, i9i0.
HENRV R. HOLLAND. 1R..
Administrator of estate of llenry R. Hol-
innii, aeceaseu.
Goods
