r!1
"nr" vi?
. -rpT'
rr-rm 'Y
- TVr"! ,.-"rFFsi " &?
wmc,rmFTT
f is
WEATHER FORECASTrV
Rain Tonight ;
(Pull Report xn 3Pe Two.)
KTJMBBB 8820
. WASHINGTON, THURSDAY ETENING, FJBJBBIIABY 24, 1016.
ICE ONE GENT.
?l'
EDiytDN
P
PRESIDENT FIRM,
CAPITOL SEETHES
WITH OPPOSITION
Official Washington Sitting on Volcano,
With Wilson Refusing to Hear of Any
, Warning tov Americans on
Armed Steamers.
PREAK WITH LANSING UNCONFIRMED
Official Washington is sitting on a volcano today.
Every possible element contributes to a degree of
tension seldom before manifested.
Congress is seething with rebellion against the Presi
dent oh ,the question of warning Americans to keep off
armed merchant vessels.
President Wilson, in almost absolute seclusion at the
White House, is firm in his intention not to permit Con
gress to interfere with his handling of the situation by the
passage of any resolution of warning.
Reports circulated earlier in the day at the Capitol
.that the State Department and the White House are not
entirely in accord, and that the department was in favor
of continuing the negotiations with Germany, found no
confirmation in Administration circles. x
Secretary Lansing called up the President by tele
phone and asked for an appointment. - The two will con
fer later in the day.
In both House and Senate. Administration leaders
are working desperately among the Democrats to prevent
the Gore resolution, warning Americans off armed liners,
from coming to a vote.
It is regarded as a significant fact that these -leaders,
in their desperation, turned-fo-Republicans-for-suppori -
It was a Republican, Brandegee, of Connecticut, that
blocked Senator Gore today. By objecting to the consid
eration of the Gore resolution, he defeated the purpose of
the President's opponents to force a vote.
The House was a powder keg, ready to explode at
any time that the match was applied. For the first time
in weeks every seat in the House chamber was occupied.
Each side watched the other closely, while Administration
leaders walked about nervously imploring support.
SAY RESOLUTION WOULD PASS.
Conservative men In both the House
and Senate declared that If the ques
tion of warning: Americana ever came
to a vote, a resolution of the kind
prepared bv Senator Gore would pass
with an overwhelming majority.
The task of the Administration lead
era la to prevent Its coming; to a vote,
and up to a late hour today they had
succeeded. None of them, however, Is
confident that at any time the show
down may not come.
It was a curious fact that some of
the very men who. In the Interest of
party loyalty, sought to prevent auch
a show-down, confidentially admitted
that If the resolution ever came to a
vote they would vote for It.
The White House refused to make
any comme.it on the situation beyona
stating that the President was stanu
1ns absolutely Arm. It was plainly in
timated in this connection, however,
that even should such a resolution be
adopted the President would veto It.
Contrary to predictions, the Presldont
did not receive any delegations trom
the House or consult with any of 'he
leaders. Ills last word on the subject
had been given over the telephone last
night to Chairman Flood, of the House
Foreign Affairs Committee, whom he
told that under no circumstances must
the resolution be passed,
Flood, of the Heine Committee, and
Senator Btonc concurred totethir nt
pome length this aftarnuon comparing
notes as to how Ion t'.ioy mU.it ex
pect to hold Congress In check
In the cloak rooms. In committee
rooms and In the corridors. Senator.!
and Congressmen conferred. There wm
a constant stream of Hcnatoix favotlng
the resolution calling at the office of
Senator Hoko Smith of UcoikIu.
Standing out as a powerful element
in the whole situation Is tho detrriiilna
tlon In Congress not O iftinlt the
President to dratj Iho country Into a
war without first taklm; Congress Into
his confidence. TUn uriwlru iclt una
ns much a renelVon against dictation
from Wilson as .my Insurrection ever
staged against KoomvoI: or Tnft on
matters of domestic policy.
The first movo In today's developments
occurred In the Senate when Senatorp
Gore of Oklahoma, heretofore a staunch
supporter of the President, arose to ask
unanimous consent that his resolution
be considered out of the regular order of
illnlni.MB .
The moment was one of Intense sus
pense. Vice President Marshall hesi
tated. There was no move from the
Democratlo side to object.
Benator Brandegee of Connecticut
arose from his seat on tho Republican
aide and objected. Senator Gore ap
pealed to the chair, but Vice Presi
dent Marshall ruled that objection
having been raised, the resolution was
out of order. It was the first test, and
the President had won. but It was a
test based on pVirllmentary rules, and
not on the number of votes that stood
behind Senator Gore ready to be cast
for the resolution.
On the House side neither side made
a move, due perhaps to the fact that
tXftker Clark, loyal to tho Interests of
party harmony, refused to recognise
anyone ho suspected of wishing to force
an Iinuo on the nuestlon.
And yet, according to clone friends of
the Speaker, his personal convictions
favor legislation to keep Americans off
armed liners, and would lend him, If a
vote was ever taken, to line up against
the President.
Benator Stone, who Is llkewice credited
with a strong sympathy in favor of the
(Jore resolution, was equally loyal. Clr
culatlns about among thr Democrats.
he pleaded with them that the time for
such action was not opportune; that
Congress should at least await the out
come of the diplomatic negotiations.
Convinced that the courso of the Ad
ministration Is heading the United
States straight toward war with Ger
many, numerous and powerful elements
in ooin nouses or congress are in re
volt against the Wilson policy.
Tho uprising In tho House camo sud
denly at mid-afternoon yesterday.
Leaders were constantly In conference
A secret meeting of the Democrats of
tno Foreign Atralrs Committee was
(Continued on Page Eleven.)
INTERNATIONAL CRISIS
STOPS PEACE HEARING
House Foreign Affairs Members
Keep to Floor.
The peaco hearings before the House.
Foreign Affairs Committee, when
prominent delegates from a score of
organizations Joined In a demonstration
nt tho Capitol, wero cut short today at
12 o clock.
Mcmt-era of tho commltten wished to
bo on the fit or of the House to thwart
any attempt to pass a resolution con
trary to President Wllson'H wishes, for
bidding Americans to ttiel on nvmed
ships.
The hearing wns called despllo the
war rumors at the Capitol today. Dele
gates from a score of organizations
wero present to urge tho adoption of
Congressman Meyer London's resolu
tion .pioposlng that Presldont Wilson
call a peace council of neutrals.
Congressmon London read telegrams
from Socialist leaders lr. European
countries promising co operation In his
peace plan.
Adoption of Child Is
Legalized By D. C. Court
Justice McCoy legalized tho adoption
of Atbert Channlng Smith, twelve years
old, on the petition of his stepfather
George E. Walker, who gave his resi
dence at 1760 aPrk road northwest.
Tho court was advised that the boy's
father died in August 1!KH, and that on
January 30, 1908, the petitioner and Mrs.
Smith married,
The adoption was legalized under the
name or Albert Channlng Smith Wallur.
Commander of Zeppelin
Sends Farewell to Wife
COPENHAGEN, Feb. 24. A
farewell messago from Cap
tain Uhl, of the Zeppelin
L-10, wrecked while return
ing from the last raid on
England, was picked up in 'a
bottle by the Swedish vessel
Stellais brought here today.
"Expect to be drowned," wrote
'the Zeppelin commander.
"Hundred meters aloft. De
fective motor. Finder please
tell wifo and little boy
good-bye."
In another bottle 'picked up by
the Stella was a brief mes
sage: "Crew now drowning."
Loss of the L-ll) was admitted
by the German admiralty.
The English trawler King
Stephen encountered the
wrecked airship drifting in
the North Sea a few hours
before a heavy gale that pre
sumably sent her to the bottom.
E
E
VOTE FOR DISTRICT
Chamber of Commerco Repre
sentatives Argue For Cham
berlain Measure.
Before the subcommittee on Judici
ary of the Senate District Committee
today, a committee from the Chamber
of Commerce appeared In favor of the
Chamberlain resolution for a consti
tutional amendment for suffrage in
the District.
The committee took the position
that the citizens of the District were
unlted for suffrage.
Theodore W. Noyes, Chapln Brown,
and A. Leftwlch Sinclair wero the
members of the committee of the
Chamber of Commerce.
. They advised the subcommittee that
wlth'ouVreS'aTOno drrererices' of view
KlTo the form of government for tho
District, thinking men here all were
for the Chamberlain measure.
The District Delegate Association was
represented by Hoy C. Claflln and Wil
liam MclC Clayton. Thoy attended tno
hearing In behalf of the Polndexter
Delegate bill. This would give the Dis
trict a Delegate In the House who would
not havo tho power to vote.
They confirmed the statement made to
tho subcommittee by Mr. Noyes aDout
tho united reeling for the Chamberlain
resolution.
They took the position that the Poln
dexter bill should 'be passed because
such legislation was feasible at once.
The time of the subcommittee was
consumed by hearing tho Chamber of
Commerce committee. At the close ot
the hearing It was announced that Mr.
Claflln and Mr. Clayton would bo heard
Another day. and also Senator Polndex
ter, on tho Delegate bill.
Another hearing may be given on the
Chamberlain resolution.
"A monstrous paradox" was what Sir.
Moves called the District today, tell
ing of the fact that 3.V),iKX Amerlcuiu
live here as political aliens.
Bomb Set Off In
Nebraska Capitol
But Device Explodes Only Partly
and Building Is Not
Damaged.
LINCOLN. Neb. Feb. 24. Discovery of
what tuthorltlos believe to be an at
tempt to wreck the Nebraska State
Capitol hern by uso of a strangely con
structed bomb, was announced by of
ficials today.
Tho bomb, n thin pipe, nearly five
feet long, and filled with black pow
der, exploded only partly, but damaged
tho garbago Incinerator In the base
ment of the building Into which It had
been thrown.
The forco of tho explosion hurled the
bomb from tho furnace against a !tone
wall six feet dlbtxnt. Only a smrll
portion of its contents had exploded.
Tho remainder won examined by chom
istn today.
Burning rubblch was scattered nbout
the floor of the basement, but tho fire
was extinguished by the Janitor on
duty.
SUFFRAGISTS LOSE
IN MARYLAND HOUSE
Bill to Submit Question to a Ref
erendum Beaten 64 to 30.
ANNAPOLIS, Md.. Feb. 24,-The
house, by a vnto of 64 to M defeated
the bill to submit a constitutional
amendment giving women the right to
vote. The same bill had received a con
stitutional majority In tho senate.
After the defeat of the bill, Mr. Hhrl
ver, of tho city delegation, moved to
reconsider the voto by which the un
favorable report on tho bill has been
adopted. He moved to lay his motion
on the table, This was adopted. By
these parliamentary tactics, tho way
was closed to a, further consideration of
tho question In the house during this
session, but tho senate bill dies au
tomatically,
Austrian Aeroplanes Sink
.Italian Ship With Troops
VIENNA. Feb. 24.,-An Italian trans
port, carrying troops away from Al
bania, has been sunk by Austrian aero
planes In the harbor ot Duraszo, it was
ofXUlally announced today.
n
smu
VERDUNSMASH
PRESAGES NEW
DRIVE ON PARIS
Kaiser at Front Directing Ger
man Efforts to Take Great
Fortress.
GREAT STRUGGLE CONTINUES
Outer Forts Are Threatened.
Losses Exceed Any in Last
. Five Months' Fighting.
LONDON, Feb. 24. Under the
eye of the Kaiser, the crown
prince army has smashed forward
to within gun range or tne
great fortress and city of Verdun,
in one of the greatest battles of
the war.
Advices from Berlin declare it
presages a new drive upon the
French capital itself, 132 miles to
the west.
The German war office this
afternoon announced the capture
of the villages of Brabant-Sur-Meuse,
Haumont and the Herbe
wood within less than eight miles
of Verdun, and also the capture of
Samogneux, a bare six miles from
Verdun's northern outskirts.
LOSSES ADMITTED.
Tho French war office admitted the
loss of Brabant-Bur-Meuse undor the
Germans' battering attack, and the loss
of a portion of the Caures JVood. Just
west of Haumont, but claimed the re
pule of a arrWo .German assault
affSlnttt fiit.-itogr.oux.
The losses on both sides range well
above 60,000.
Both sides reported no cessation In
the steady pounding of great guns of all
caliber along the twenty-flve-mlle front
north of Verdun.
The French war office claimed the re
pulso of heavy German onslaughts
against Samogneux, and reported that
enormous losses wero Inflicted on the
attacking forces at Beaumont, north
west of Verdun. Paris also announced
a successful atr raid on the Lorraine
capital of Met i.
Paris Not Anxious.
The German war office reported not
only great gains against the French po
sitions around Verdun, but the capture
of a French advance post, with a garri
son of ttfty, south of Metx.
German heavy siege artillery will be
brought up at onco against the Verdun
forts If the Germans can maintain the
positions they claim they have gained.
No great anxiety Is felt hero, however,
over tho near approach of thei Crown
Prince's army to the fortress Itself.
Conceding tho possibility that Verdun
Itself might be pounded to pieces by 42
centlmeters. English military critics de
clare that the Crown Prince must pierce
n remarkable system of defensive Held
positions before beginning any actual
march on Paris.
Chain of Defenses.
The xv hole French position in the Ver
dun anglo consists of row after row ot
strongly fortified field positions, ox
tcudlng for miles both In front and In
tho rear of Verdun. In earlier violent
assaults, the Germans have beaten
whole army corps to pieces In attempts
to break through this defensive chain.
It Is believed hero that tho losses they
must sustain In tho present offcnslvo
will defeat their attempts, though It Is
recognized that the French, too, must
suffer heavy casualltles In the Verdun
fighting. . . .
According to nn Amsterdam dispatch
to the Central News today, quoting a
German uuthoilty, the present offensive
Initiates a desperate strugglo to securo
control of the entiro French fortress
line, with a view to opening a roaa to
The' crown prince, tho dispatch stated,
has been appointed commander-ln-chler
or all th German forces in tho Alsace
and Meuse regions.
Tho fiercest artillery and Infantry
fighting Is proceeding on both banks of
tho Mouse. ...,..,.
The Germans havo battered n the
head of the strong French salient nine
miles north of Verdun, according to
Berlin dispatches today.
The Berlin war office claims the cap.
turo of more than six miles of French
trenches to a depth of two miles, at
some placos. the greatest gain malo by
either side on the western front slnco
tho French drive In the Champagne
last September. ... A.
If tho Berlin report Is true, tho Ger
mans are now approaching the outor
forts of Verdun, and by another eaually
cffeotlvo drive may bring their 42-centl-metcrs
to bear upon tho Verdun de
fenses. On 25-Milo Frdnt.
Paris dispatches, reporting that the
battle has spread along a twonty-rtvo-mlle
front, Indicate that the Germans
are pi easing their attacks with the ut
most tuny, counting upon overwhelming
tho Verdun defenders by tho weight of
their assault.
Amsterdam asscrtB that the German
losses havo exceeded tho casualties In
any fighting In flvo months.
or forty-eight hours streams of dan
gerously wounded have been making
their way toward Germany, according
to Amsterdam reports.
A Paris dispatch to the London Times,
emniissiz ne tne importance or tn ver-
dun battle, declares that German losses
In tho past forty-eight hours have been
so heavy as to insure the defeat ol the
attempt against vuuiui.
Germans Scuttle Prize
And Escape in Boats
LONDON, Feb. 24. German
commerce raiders, who yes
tcrday ran the captured Brit
ish steamer Westburn into
the port of Santa Cruz,
Canary Islands, dashed out
to sea early today, scuttled
the vessel, and escaped in
boats, according to dispatches
from Santa Crur.
This was done, the dispatches
said, because the Spanish
authorities hinted that the
Westburn, believed to have
been taken by the famous
commerce raider Moewe,
probably would be returned
to her British owners if the
Germans decided to intern
her.
The Germans landed the 206
passengers taken from other
vessels reported sunk by the
Moewe, and they will be per
mitted to make their way to
England.
E HERE
TO RECEIVE ST. CYRS
Luttrells Leave Capital and
Lessees Due in Capital To
morrow or on Saturday.
Arrangements are being completed 1.0
day for Mr. and Mrs. Jean Harald St.
Cyr to take possession of the palatial
residence of Nathaniel H. Luttrell. Con
necticut avenue and olumbla rovJ,
which they have leased.
Mr. and Mrs. Luttrell left Washing
ton this afternoon for a trip through
the South.
The St. Cyrs probably will take pos
session of the residence tomorrow, al
though they may not come to Washing
ton, until Saturday.
The agreement Is said to give them
possession of the homo any ,tlme afer
rooti today,
Horace H. Westcott. real estate brok
er, who represents Mr. Luttrell, today
"stood pat" on the denial which he gave
out last night about the St. Cyrs coming
to Washington.
Mr. Luttrell declined to be Interviewed
about the matter.
The exclusive announcement in The
Times yesterday that the St. Cyrs were
comlnir to Washington to live for a
time, and possibly to make this their
permanent residence was read with
much interest and caused much talk
In society. In fact. It was pracUcally
the solo topic of conversation at most
social functions and gatherings last
night.
The announcement of the St. Cyrs
taking a Washington homo explalnea
the several trips Mr. St. Cyr has maae
to this city during the last few weeas.
Durlnc each visit he looked at different
homes which the owners were willing
to lease for the 'remainder of tne social
season, it was after he had visited
them all that the Luttrell mansion was
aectaea upon.
Mr. St. Cyr spent considerable time in
Washington last spring, stopping at a
leading hotel, lie expressed a uesire at
that time to mako Washington his per
manent residence, and It Is regarded as
probublo by a number of their Mends
that the counle Mill make tho National
Capital their winter resldenco In the
future.
Mrs. St. Cyr, who was the widow or
"Silent" Smith, multimillionaire broker,
also likes Washington. The social life
here appeals to both Mr. and Mrs. St.
("vr particularly.
The Luttrell mansion la not only one
of the city's most Imposing houses, but
Is particularly well adapted for enter
taining on a lavish scale.
U. S. Unsettled on
Appam, Envoy Told
Secretary Lansing Explains Status
to Ambassador Spring
Rice. Secretary Lansing today told Sir
Cecil Spring-Bice that the United States
has not decided what disposition It will
mako of the German prize ship Appam,
now at morrow.
This case has become Involved In the
general controversy over German-
American relations.
Groat Britain has demanded tho re
lease of the vessel to Its former British
owners.
Germany demands Its sequestra;ion as
a prlzo under the Prussian-American
treaty.
Tho State Department Is unwilling to
pass on tho question of ownership while
facing strained relations with Germany
over tho submarine Issue, arid while
court proceedings, brought by the Brit
ish owners, aro nendlntr In the Fodaral
courts at Norfolk.
Two Consciences Add .
, $11 to Uncle Sam's Fund
Two contributions to 'tho conscience
fund, one of J10 from a small Ohio
town and tho other of Jl from a small
town In Iowa, were received at tho
Treasury Department todov TW) $10
contribution came through the War De
partment. The $1 contrlbutot sent a note saying
"Please forgive rr.e I used somo can
celed stamps. I am paying for them
now."
House Starts For U. S.
LONDON, Feb. 31,-Cot, E. M. House,
confidential agent of President Wilson,
left for Falmouth today to take pas
sage aboard the Holland-American liner
Rotterdam, sailing 'for New York tomorrow.
HOUS
READY
ALL U. S.
TO WORK 8 HOURS
BY BUDGET RIDER
Borland Amendment to the Legislative. Ex
ecutive and Judicial Appropiation Bill
Comes As Great Surprise When
Measure Is Reported
WOULD SAVE $4,000,000 ANNUALLY
Another Rider Provides That Cost of Gas
To the Government Shall Not Exceed
Seventy Cents Per '1,000 Feet
Bill Carries $37,000,000
An amendment increasing the hours of labor of all
Government clerks employed in the Executive departments
in Washington one hour each day was included in the legis
lative, executive and judicial appropriation bill by the
House Appropriations Committee today.
The amendment offered by Congressman Borland of
Missouri, Democratic leader of the committee, provides
that hereafter all Government employes in Washington
shall work "not less than eight hours each day."
Under the present law the clerks are required to work
not less than seven hours each day.
The legislative bill, "carrying approximately $37,
JOO.OOO, was reported to the House this afternoon.
Adoptioit of he Borland amendment affects 36,OOiK
Government clerksemployed in the various departments. '
The amendment was unexpectedly offered by Mr.
Borland, and with practically all the members of the Ap
propriations Committee present, only two are said to have
voted in the negative.
TWO OPPOSE CHANGE.
They were Congressman Byrns of Tennessee, a Dem
ocrat, and Congressman Monell, Republican, of Wyoming.
While the Borland 'amendment applies to clerks in
"executive departments," Congressman Borland informed
The Times this afternoon tjiat the final draft of the amend
ment will make it plain that the following classes of clerks
shall vork one hour longer:
"Discrict of Columbia employes;
"Smithsonian Institution employes;
"Employes of the Federal Trade Commission;
"Employes of the Interstate Commerce Commission;
"Al lemployes, including bureau chiefs of every Gov
ernment department.
MUST DETERMINE CHANGE.
The. heads of the Executive departments, if the Borland
amendment is approved by Congress, will determine how
the additional hour of labor is to be obtained from the
Clerks; that is, whether Government employes shall report
earlier in the morning or remain later in the afternoon, or
both.
Congressman Borland told his committee colleagues
today that he estimated the Government would save
$4,000,000 annually by imposing an additional hour of
labor upon its employes here, and that he did not regard his
amendment as burdensome or unfair so far as the clerks
are concerned.
In this connection the legislative bill, which was pre
pared before Mr. Borland thought of his amendment, con
tains a few salary increases for Government clerks, but it
is not contemplated that the increased hours of labor will
be accompanied by increases of salary all along the line.
WHAT THE RIDER PROVIDES.
The legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation
bill was prepared last week by a subcommittee headed by
Congressman Byrns and when it was brought into the full
committee meeting today it contained no reference to in.
creased hours of labor for Government clerks.
Mr. Borland moved that before the bill was reported
to the House by the full committee it should be amended to
lengthen the day of labor of Government employes. As
amended the section relating to executive departments,
now carried in existing law, will read:
"Hereafter it shall be the duty of the heads of the
several executive departments, in the interests of the pub-
HCLERKS
