A
2C
ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
The Arizona
Republican,
Full
Leased Wire
A. P. Report
The 8un
Always Shinea
Finest
Winter Climate
In the World
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 24, 1916 i
,12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI. NO. 281
THE
ARMED SHIPS
TAKEN FROM
AND DETERMINED BY
Sentiment in Senate Favor
ins; Some Such Action Is
Expressed Openly But Is
" Withheld Because of Em
barrassing Features
DIPLOMATIC BREAK
MIGHT M LAN WAR
Word Comes From Presi
dent. He Is Still Unalter
ablv Opposed to Action bv
Congress That Would
Discredit Him
u
i ' i
! NEW YORK, Feb. 23. Another
; Italian steamship, the San Gug- 1
lie lino, arrived today from Genoa j
I and Naples with two three-inch
! guns mounted aft. She is the fifth
I armed Italian liner to arrive here
! recently. Each gun was manned
I by two gunners of the Italian navy
! and one of the vessel's officers j
I paid they were provided with 200
I rounds of ammunition. i
I The captain reported no subma- j
I rines had been sighted during the
voyage. The San Guglielmo ear
i ricd 117 second cabinet and 399
I steerage passengers.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Feb. 23. Agitation
in conqress for action warning Amer
icans, off armed ships of the European
belligerents suddenly grew to such pro
portions today that the democrcts of
the foreign affairs convmittee voted to I
canvass the sentiment of the house on
several pending resolutions of that
nature.
Sentiment in the senate in favor of
come such action also was expressed
openly, but at the enc! of a day of
surances, tension and agitation such
as has not been seen in congress in
some time, the word came that Presi- .'
I
dent Wilson still was unalterably op- : ment's views on peace. He took up through which investors all over the
posed to any such action by congress the gauntlet almost eagerly and in a i country are alleged to have been
end that he would only be embrrrassed bristling fifteen minute :;pech made swindled out of approximately $300,
thereby in the negotiations with Ger- it clear that the British government's j (m- nas been in communication with
many. I determination to carry the war to ; friends nere l,y means of code adver-
To widelv circulated sunsnons
hat th. cltii.-inn nni-t'oil
whe.e the president soon -would lay it
hfnr rnnnrnv thaf Snpt9rv I anein,. I
might in tome way define the attitude ! As-quit h offered to the enemy coun
of the government in a communication 'tries were contained in the historic
to Senator Stone -end that a time had announcement which was the out
been fixed within which the United Handing feature of his speech at the
States would expect Germany to sig- ! London guildhall in November, 1914,
nify her intention to abanc'on the an- which he repeated:
tiounced intention to sink armed mer- "We shall never sheath the sword,
chent ships without warning, the uni- which we have not lightly drawn, until
form statement was made officially Belgium and. I will add, Serbia re
that nothing had been determined cover -in full m'easure all and more
upon; that the situation though grave, than they have sacrificed; until France
otill was a waiting one, and that no , is adequately secured against aggres-
final position would be announced un
til Berlin was heard from.
The sudden developments at the eap
itol brought surprise and apprehension
to the administration leaders. Whils
confronted with the possibility of con
grossionai interference with all its
grave aspects ranging from a defection j
frorr.- the administration policy, to i
downright embarrassment of the pres
ident and the secretary of state, tho
leaders were confident they would con
trol the situation and leave the exec
utive branch of the government free
to carry on diplomatic negotiations
with Germany.
At no time toriav rlid the nnpqliim
rome out openly on the floor of either- acnler' 4' years old, and married, Ulayburg, under arrest in Los An
the house orv the senate, but about a alll'ed ringleader of an alleged black-' geles on complaint of Seattle and
score of ccngressmen who announced mailin syndicate which preyed upon Lillian Peterson, who disappeared
they were in favor of warning Ameri- ,wealtnv Seattle business men, was tir-.from Billings, Mont., before the au
cans, ever, if it Involved a repudiation restecl -late today on 11 charge of at-! thorities there received instructions
of i.e administration policy, if thereby ; tempting blackmail. He was released to arrest her. Schler declined to
they thought war wonjd be averted jon ;''000 bond "iKned uy his wife. discuss his relations with the womeji.
kept toth houses in a state of tension ' The s"ecific harKp "n which Sheriff Robert Hodge said today
that practically bloc ked business. ''hler was arrested was that he at-j that no specific charge had been
All the demonstration was in the teml,te3 to extor' ,O00 frm P' i hrought against Elsie Coots, whose
democratic ranks and there was no '"ent "T"8 "romotPr of Seattle. arrest he asked of the Los Angeles
open show of sentiment among the re- ! '""'"K'-aphs taken in the house used police, but he desired that she be tak
publicans. It was indicated, however. "y '''"ckmailers as their head- en into custody for investigation.
that Remihlimn t e.,w Mnnn vmn - "-"alters are said to be in .the hands;
' ..... . ......
thized with President Wilson's policy
(Continued on Page Three)
HI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 23. Judge
Maurice T. Dooling of the United
States district court, "cleared all tech
nical objections today to the indict
ments brought agains Baron E. H.
von Schack, German vice consul here,
and twenty-six other individuals and
firms for alleged violations of Ameri
can neutrality. All are charged with
having conspired to supply German
warsiiips at sea; with making the port
of San Francisco a naval base: and
with attempting to provision belliger
ent vessels.
Attorneys for the defendants sought
to dismiss the indictments or failing
in this to abate them, on the ground
TECIC
OBJECT QNS
1ED
PROBLEM MAY BE
PRESIDENT WILSON
STEAMER
WITH
GERI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Feb. 23. A dispatch re
ceived from Santa Cruz, TenerilTe (Can
ary Islands) says the British steamer
Westburn has put in there for repairs,
flying the German flag and with a
prize crew of seven men and one offi
cer. The officer is believed to belong
to the German raider Moewe.
In addition to her own crew, there
are 206 prisoners taken from various
British vessels on the Westburn. The
Westburji left Liverpool, January 21,
for Buenos Aires.
The Westburn is a vessel of 3"i00 tons.
She was built in 1S93, and is owned
by J. Westall of Sunderland. The
prisoners on board came from the
British steamers Flemenco, Horace,
Clan McTavish and Cambridge, the i
British bark Edinburgh and the Bel- i
gian steamer Luxembourg. I
The W estburn, after her departure I
from Liverpool, wa last reported as
passing St. Vincent, Cape Verde,-February
4. The Flemenco left Newport,
England, for Valparaiso, January 21,
and the Horace left Buenos Aires Jan
uary 26 for Liverpool. The Luxem-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Feb. 23. Premier As
ouith found himself unexpectedly face !
to face in the house of commons today
with a new demand for the govern-
end without compromise had not abut- !
since the e:iriv ihi i of i ho ir,nr. !
gle. " i
The milv terms nf iin.irp Premie" !
uon; until the rights of the small
nations of Europe are based upon an
(Continued on Page Five.)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
&K.AI1LL. Mash., Feb. 23 Louis
the npnuM'iitinv a ftn.r.a.. f... ....Al
, . ...v .......e, buumit-j iui uc
against fcchler.
i Schler stoutly denied the charge,
TO
BY JUDGE D00L1
that no competent testimony had been
given to the grand jury upon which to
bast the, indictments. Permission was
requested to put grand jurors on the
stand to prove the contention.
Judge Dooling- denied the motion to
dismiss and upheld the government's
demurrer to the motions to abate, and
overruled demurrers to the Indict
ments. -
In referring to the request of the de
fendant's counsel to quiz the grand
jurors. Judge Dooling said "the method
If ingenious but I fear ineffectual."
Mrs. Annette Adams, assistant I'nit
ed States district attorney, opposed the
battery of legal talent for the defense
in the argument of the motions.
AcniiiTU rrrc irvuiii
U H. II 1 1 1 1 I II I Hill. I I I IIS UIU II I I I .1
IIUVUIIM I llvJLU LI lllllll IILL.I U
DHD Fn IN TOUCH WITH
i ii ri i in r m -jr i pt.ii m m
WW ml A 1 111 II II u H I r
VIQifGUI.rLP.UL! VV 1 1 L Dl RUG
i f
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
- I i r-. XT T.,. i 1 .1 T : 1
ALLEGED BLACKMAIL 1G
LEADER IS UNDER SET
IICTMIS
il
CONGRESS
REACHES
E
bourg was on a voyage from Newport
for Uuenos Aires, having departed for
the South American port January 18.
The bark Edinburgh sailed from Ran
goon, India, September 22, for Liver
pool. The Luxembourg and the Flem
enct) had been placed on the overdue
list. The Cambridge cannot be identU
fied.
The fact that the steamer Westburn
has among the prisoners on board men
from the British steamer Clan McTav
ish, which was sunk after an exciting
battle by the German raider Moewe off
the east coast of Africa in January,
seemingly would indicate that the
Flemenco, Horace, Edinburgh and Lux
embourg had met a similar fate. The
Moewe. which captured the British
South African liner Appam which was
later taken into Hampton Roads by a
German prize crew, in addition to dis-
posing of the Clan McTavish, destroyed
six other steamers, tlie Corbridge,
which probably is the Cambridge re
ferred to in the London dispatch;
Trader, Author, Ariadne, Drumonby
and Farringford.
RepubMcan-A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Feb. 23. J. Grant Ly
man, who is being sought by the fed
eral authorities in connection with the
collapse of a stock promotion venture
lisements in newspapers, it was inti
"laiea at a Hearing neiore i.nnea
States Commissioner Alexander Gil-
Christ today.
Mrs. Leontine, Lyman, wife of the
missing "broker, admitted that an ad
vertisement for an English valet, which
appeared recently, probably was in
tended for her information. She re
fused, however, to disclose its signifi
cance, asserting that she would "do
everything in her power to protect her
husband from everybody."
After persistent questioning by the
commissioner, Mrs. Lyman became ex
cited and exclaimed that she was be
ing persecuted.
"These questions," she Ridded, "make
me sick. You can arrest me and put
(Continued on Page Two)
which he said was a "pure fake," but
admitted acquaintance with Isabel
lJ - I . i
nUM3 VUrpus writ issued.
r.CiS AYGFT.FS hvii 9-t a . rit f
habeas corpus, returnable February
, 2i, was tainted late today by Judge
John M. York in. the superior court
Ion, behalf of Mrs. Isabel . Clayburg,
jwho was arrested here yesterday on
I telegraphic advices from Sheriff' Rob-
ert Hodge of Seattle, that she was
.charged with being a member of an
nlloa1 lil'iil.-mi;i ot..l:,.....
eiaieu in mat city.
The arrest of Miss Elsie Coots, a
young woman who is said to have
been living? here recently with Mrs.
Clayburg, was requested in a tele
gram to the sheriff's office from
Sheriff Hodge today. The telegram
did not say whether a warrant had
been issued, or what charge, if any,
had been preferred against Miss
Coots. Deputies were unable to find
her.
Attorneys for Mrs. Clayburg receiv
ed information by wire, so they said,
from their Seattle correspondents, to
the effect that the wealthy alleged
victims of the so-called blackmail
syndicate had said they would not
appear in u prosecution against Mrs.
Clayburg and others accused with
her.
P
m
-
! MRS. ARCHBOLD IS
I BITTEN BY RATTLESNAKE
THOMASVILLE, Ga., Feb. 23.
Mrs. John V. Archbold, daughter-
in-law of John D. Archbold of the
Standard Oil company, was bitten
by a rattlesnake while hunting on
the Archbold estates near here to-
day. Physicians said her wound
would not prove fatal. Mrs. Arch- j
! bold shot the snake after she had
I ueen bitten.
.
MAY CAUSE BIG
CAR SHORTAGE
Republican A. P. Leasee Wire
NEW YORK, Feb. 23. Abnormal
export trade of the eastern states due
to enormous orders for war materials
and provisions from European coun
tries, has resulted in the eastern rail
roads detaining thousands of cars
owned by western lines, thereby
threatening disaster to western crops,
according to F. H. Funk, a member of
the Illinois public utilities commission,
who arrived here today. Accompanied
by E. I. Wayne, a director of the Illi
nois Grain Dealers Association, Mr.
Funk left tonight for Washington for
a conference with the interstate com
merce commission. Approximately 50,
OOti cars must be provided for the
movement of corn in Illinois alone
within the next 30 days, or a serious
loss will be entailed, Mr. Funk as
serted. Ten Thousand
Flood Victims
fJooA A QQiQfnnro
xVtJtt' iXddliOlU flUs
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NATCHEZ, Miss., Feb. 23. Ap
proximately 10,000 persons in the
flooded district of northern Loui
siana are in need of assistance, ac
cording to a statement made in an
appeal received here tonight from
Mayor W. M. Davidson of St.
Joseph. He said most of the suf
ferers were negro tenants on plan
tations. "You can count the number of
planters on the fingers of one hand
who are able to provide for their
negroes," he stated. "The negroes
on the levee have been given ra
tions from private sources and
provided with lumber to build
shacks, but there are only 146 of
this class of refugees by actual
count."
Mayor Jacoby of Newellton was
quoted tonight as stating that the
citizens of Newellton considered
government aid necessary.
DON'T LIKE THE
. NICARAGUA PACT
Republican A. . Leased Wire
SAN SALVADOR. Feb. 23 The peo
ple of San Salvador today held a
meeting in protest against the rati
fication by the I'nited States senate
of the treaty between the United
States and Nicaragua. Salvador Mer
1 is was the principal speaker, and his
address was strongly applauded. There
was no disorder and the crowd dis
persed peaceabiy.
Dr. Saludor Castrilo, former Nica
raguan minister to the United States
and who while in Washington took
part in the negotiations of the treaty
uith Secretary of State Knox, was the
object of a hostile manifestation. The
police intervened, however, and pro
tected him.
ROYAL MARRIAGE
WENT ALL WRONG
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Feb. 23. An Interloc
utory decree of divorce was granted to
Princess Evelyn Partridge Engalitchef,
daughter of Charles N. Partridge of
Chicago, in l.er suit against Prince
Nicholas Vladaovich Engalitchef of
Russia in a decision handed down to
day by Justice Bijur of the supreme
court. The case was the only one on
record in this country where there was
a dispute as to whether the suit could
he tried here or in the courts of Rus
sia. The defendant contended his Rus
sian citizenship entitled him to a trial
of the issues in his own country.
COMPULSORY BATH
PROVOKES STANFORD
STUDENT TO WRATH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PALO ALTO, Cal., Feb. 23 A com
pulsory bath r.aid to have been admin
istered to David Malcolm Ross of Mo
desto, a student at Stanford Univer
sity, by eighteen of his fellow students,
sophomores, caused Ross to appeal to
day to the law as represented by Jus
tice of the Peace S. W. Charles of
Palo Alto.
Ross, who was "tubbed," he told the
jurtice, because he had refused to
perform freshmen duty, asked that
warrants be issued fo1 the arrest of
nis alleged assailants.
Forceful tubbing, Ross insisted, con
stituted an assault. Furthermore, he
explained, tubbing of th;s kind had
been officially banned at the univer
sity. And anyhow, he said, sopho
mores had no right to tub him as
work done at the Annapolis Naval
Academy prior to his entering Stan
ford entitled htm to sophomore stand
ing. Judge Charles persuaded Ross to
take his troubles to Dr. Ray Lyman
Wilbur, president of the university, nection with the presidential nomina
who referred the matter to the stu-!tion.
dent council, which, it was anounced,
win noia a special comerence mr ine
"El i i i i r . i
consideration of Ross' complaint.
VERDUN FORTRESS GOAL
FOR WHICH GERMANS
ARE BATTLING ONWARD
Troops Belonging to Seven
Army Corps Are Engaged
Along Twenty-Five Mile
Front in Effort to Drive
the French Back
I Republican A. P. Leaseo wire
Troops belonging to seven German
army corps under Crown Prince Fred
erick William, are engaged -along a
25-mile front north cf Verdun in a
desperate effort to drive back the
French defending forces, probably with
the capture of the great fortress of
Verdun in view.
There had been very heavy fighting
for a considerable period in this dis
trict of tne French war zone, but
within the last few days the attacks
of the Germans have taken on added
strength. The battle line has been
extended and now reaches from Mal
ancourt, on the west, to Etain, on the
east, with Verdun in the center, only
few miles southward.
The Germans claim to have made
important advances, and to some ex
tent these are admitted by the French
war office, which describes the battle
as one of increasing intensity.
The German preparations were ex
tensive, and the bombardment of the
j French positions with thousands of
j shells was uninterrupted. As the
French had f0,tiern this ,,attle a" ,heil
available, guns were called into action
and responded in kind to the heavy
shelling of the Germans.
While at some points the French
were unable to resist the onslaught
of the attacking forces along much
of the front, according to the Paris
communication, the attacks were well
sustained .and very heavy losses were
inflicted on the Germans.
Another British steamer, the West
burn, has put into port flying the Ger
man flag and with a German prize
crew aboard. This vessel has reached
Santa Cruz. Ter.erifl'e. She has on
hoard 206 prisoners taken from vari
ous British vessels, which have been
sunk by German raiders.
In the British parliament Premier
Asquith, in reply to questions con
cerning the possibility of peace, re
iterated his former pronouncement that
there would be no peace until condi
tions previously set down were met.
These included the restoration of Bel
gium and Serbia, and the overthrow
of "Prussian militarism."
While President Wilson is said to
be unalterably opposed to any action
by congress with respect to warning
Americans off armed merchantmen of
the belligerent nations of Europe, agi-
tation in congress in this direction
h;.s irronn tn mM nrnnnrlin an.tlie lortreSS.
Washington advices today say the
democrats of the foreign affairs com
mittee have voted to canvass the sen
timent o the house on several pending
Republican A. P. Leasea Wire
CHICAGO, Feb. 23. Probability of
a clash of official investigations of
the city hall scandal growing out of
'split salary" charges made by Mrs.
Page Waller Eaton, former superin
tendent of social surveys, against her
official .superior, Mrs. Louise Osborne
Rowe, head of the city department of
public welfare, developed today. Both
the civil service commission and the
council civil service committee 'plan
ned to begin investigations tomorrow
and witnesses were summoned by
both bodies.
Mrs. Eaton said sne would recog
nize the authority of the council
committee hearing and in an open
letter to Mayor Thompson referred
to the civil service commission hear
ing as a "joke."
She urged the mayor to submit the
whole affair to a committee to e
selected from the mayor's advisory
board of business men and asserted
her innocence of sharing in any po
litical plot against the administra
tion. On the order of the civil service
commission the pay roll of the de
partment of public welfare was held
up., pending the investigation.
Mayor Thompson declared his com-
THEODORE BOM IS
Republican A.' P. Leased Wire
COLUM.BUS, O., Feb. 23. Theo
dore E. Burton, former United States
senator from Ohio, today officially
became a candidate for the republi
can nomination for president. Three
declarations of candidates for dele
gate at large to the republican na
tional convention, filed with Secre
tary of State Hilderbrant, were ac
companied by formal statements.
signed by Mr. Burton, giving permis-
sion for the use of his name in con-
The declarations were filed by
. . . i i . . ,
, i nueu states senator warren G.
Harding, Governor Frank B. Willis
rai iwmmm or
FOR 111 1
SMALLPOX BREAKS OUT
IN OREGON PRISON
SALEM, Ore., Feb. 23. With the
I discovery of two new cases of j
i smallpox among the inmates of j
I the Oregon penitentiary, officials
of the institution decided today to
vaccinate all of the 560 prisoners j
! and also the employes. The dis- j
! ease was brought to the institu-
I tion bv a paroled convict. j
resolutions bearing on that question.
The administration leaders at Wash
ington, it is further declared, are con
fident that they will be able to control
the situation so that the executive
branch of the government may be free
to carry on diplomatic negotiations
with Germany.
On the Russian and Austrian fronts
there has been considerable fighting,
and the Italians admit that at one
point the Austrians succeeded in pene
trating their lines. No late advices
have been received from the Caucasus,
where the Russians are continuing
their pursuit of '.he retreating Turks.
Battle of Verdun Continues.
VePrd,fn'"'conrn'e "P
erdun continues with growing in-
tensity. It exterds over a front of
forty kilometers (25 miles) and seven
German army corps (280,000 men) are
engaged. This announcement was made
officially by he war office tonight.
The great battle is being followed
with the most intense interest bv the
public. It. disposes efectivelv of the
question whether the Germans would
make an early offensive. The battle
is the first on a large scale since the
offensive in the Champagne in Septem
ber and is believed to be the fore
runner of stirring and possibly decis
ive events.
The principal fighting centers in the
rough and thickly wooded country be- ! the country might have to face simul
tween Etain and Damvillers. Here ' taneously enemies in the Pacific and
some 300,000 of the German crown ' -Atlantic oceans. Adm!ral Badger said
prince's best infantry
are trying to
wrest from the French important
roads which would enable them to ;
make their way through to the Meuse. ;
The battle as yet is only beginning,
but it is said already to have cost ;
the assailants of the French heavy '
casualties and w ithout anv appreciable !
advantage beine attained.
The Germans have been making ' oceans. Further discussion of the
preparations for a big stroke at Ver- ', canal closure also was deferred to the
dun. so openly during the past month closed session.
that the French had every cnance to ' Admiral Baoger expressed the opin
gct ready for them. The attacks up ion that should the United States
to the present only involve the ad- adopt a two-power standard navy,
vanced lines, which are at least two such as was recommended by the gen-
' ml'cs Deyorm tne outer detenses of
Military opinion here is inclined to
doubt that the Germans will attempt
to carry Verdun by storm. It is point-
(Continued on Page Two
"SPLIT
I
plete confidence in Fred Lundin, for
mer congressman and political advis
er of the mayor. He criticised Mrs.
Eaton for inconsistency in not hav
ing preferred her charges at the time
when she- asserted the first demand
for a part of her salary was made.
The mayor and the president of the
civil service commission attributed the
charges to a political plot against
the administration and the head of
the civil service commission gave out
a resolution of the commission call
ing tomorrow's inquiry and declar
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PORTLAND. Ore., Feh. 23. A truce
effective for thirty days was signed
here late today between head officials
of the Hop Sing and Bink Kong tongs.
During the period of the truce each of
the warring tongs is hound to prevent
its members from making attempts
MITE
and William Cooper Proctor. Cincin
nati manufacturer. Each declared that
his first choice for the presidential
nomination is Mr. Burton, but did
not indicate a second choice as re
quested by the Ohio primary law.
Secretary of State Hilderbrant. how
ever, has ruled that the naming of a
second choice is not necessary when
only one candidate for president has
notified him of his candidacy.
Only tomorrow and Friday remain
in which candidates for nomination
for president, and delegates to the na
tional conventions nf Iwi, u i.
.licans and democratic narti m
; . ' 1 " 1 '
declarations. The
Primary election
will be held April 25.
c i
WARRING CHE TONGS AGREE
ON A TRUCE f If! THIRTY DAYS
PRESIDENT
BADGER TO TELL!
NEED OF NAVY
International Considerations
v Which Caused Xavy Gen
eral Board to Declare for
Supremacy to Be Disclosed
in Executive Session
MAY MEAN TWO
ADEQUATE FLEETS
Possible Necessity of Guard
ing Both Coasts at Same
Time, and Uncertainty of
Canal Because of Slides to
Be Discussed
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Feb. 23. Interna
ticnal considerations which moved the
navy general board to change its time-
i honored policy last year and declare.
I that the United States navy should
the stro"Sest afloat by not later
;
,han 19-5 wiH be disclosed to the
' house naval committee tomorrow, in
executive session by Rear Admiral
' Charles J. Badger, a member of the
board.1 The examination .of Admiral
liaser in open session was concluded
I toua". the admiral consistently refus-
i ing to discllss' except behind closed
j !oors. the board's views of dangers
, wlicn may confront the nation
The subject came up when Repre
sentative Stephens of California,
seeking to show that the Pacific coast
was inadequately defended, asked if
the board, in altering its policy, did
not have in mind the possibility that -
he could answer that only in execu
tive session. He explained, however.
that a fleet callable of dominating
the Pacific ocean was the only sure
protection for the Pacific coast and
said that the earth slides in the Pan
ama Canal had made impossible for
the present and possibly for another
year the use of the fleet in
both
eiai uoaiu, urrai simiu uum i
alter ner race Ul CUIIKUUUUUll, iwtl
until the gap between the two fleets
had been materially reduced. Earlier
' in his testimony he had said he could
Continued on Patre Five.1
SUIT
ing that council committee investi
gations in the past often had proved
"fruitless and farcical."
Possibility that the charges might
be laid before the state's attorney
for attention in the criminal court
were discussed in political circles.
In answer to reports that the
Thompson mayoralty campaign fund
had been swelled by money derived
from i persons on the municipal pay
roll. Mayor Thompson said:
"The truth about the Thompson
(Continued on Page Three
upon the lives of members of the rival
society. Reports that a truce was de
clared last night were said to be in
correct. The peace pact was signed in the
quarters of the Chinese Benevolent
Association. Two hours of discussion
preceded the signing of the truce. Ef
fort was made by the peace society
represenutives to harmonize perman
ently the difficulties between the rival
tongs, hut the best they -could do w as
to obtain a truce. During the next So
days further negotiations will be car
ried on in the hope that a basis for
permanent peace m;'y be reached.
Two slain and two wounded in Port
land; one slain at Roseburg and one
wounded at La Grande is the net re
sult in casualties since the tong war
broke out tn February IT last.
Banquest Is Postponed
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 23. As an
echo of the tong outbreak in the north
came the announcement today of the
postponement of the annual banquet
of the Bing Kong Tong, which was to
have been held in the Chinese quarter
here tonight.
According to the police the Bing
Kong men hae gone into hiding. The
Hop Sings, on the other hand, wen
very much in evidence and leaders of
the iong admitted, said the police, that
serious trouble was imminent.
SECDNDTDNDNE
ABOUT
