PRESIDENT'S OFFICE
UEHEA COLLEGE
HE II E A KY
COMP
The citizen
C2n.HA PUZUXHSsG CO.
WM. O. rtOST, turn ! CMi
Knowledge It power ad the
way to keep up with eo4era
CKWuiwioem,
P.O.KOWMAN.
knowledge it U read a
oewipaper.
Devotod to tloo Intoreato of tile 3oaja.tgLiri Feoiale
Vol. XVII.
Five Cents a Copy.
BEREA, MADISON COUNTY. KENTUCKY, FEBRUARY 2. 19i.
One Dollar a Year.
No. 85.
Pithy Points to Ponder
Turn a thinker loose and you shake the world.
The day which begins the darkest may turn out to
be one of our brightest.
The fire and the gold never understand each other.
If we are poor we may take a long step toward
wealth by becoming contented.
Building on a rock is an investment that pays div
idends with every thunder clap.
Character is always telling somebody what it is.
If you are in the right you can afford to keep your
temper; if you are in the wrong you can not afford to lose
it.
Selected
I ' PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE IOSPI-with (h disease the hospitals have
TALS CURB TRACHOMA
The establishing of email tra
choma hospitals in localities where
thlt contagious disease of the eyes
U prevalent presents the best solu
tion of the trachoma problem, ac
cording to the statement contained
in the annual report of the Surgeon
General of the United States Public
Health Seryice. The Service now the report continues, "to educate
has five trachoma hospitals in the the people afflicted with this din
three states of Kentucky, Virginia i ''ase to the importance of rleanti
and West Virginia, and so great harness and the use of simple hygienic
been the number of applicant for ' measures la their daily life." That
treatment that a waiting list has results have been obtained is evi
been established. In the past fiscal denced by the noticeably better oh
year 12,000 rases of trachoma have 'servance of hygienic precautions by
been treated, the larger prMortion those among whom the work has
of which were cured, while those been done.
in which a cure was not effected In addition to the hospital work,
have been greatly improved and .surveys were made in 16 counties
rendered harmless to their asssoin Kenturky. especially among
ciates. The great majority of these .school children. Eighteen thousand
trachoma patients were people who and sixteen people were examined, 7
lived in remote sections far remov- per cent being found to havt tre
ed from medical assistance, and choma. Similar inspections in cer.
who, but for the hospilaUrare and tain localities of Arizona. Alabama,
treatment provided, would have re- and Florida resulted in finding the
mained victims of the disease prac- disease present in from three to
tirally the remainder of their lives, six children out of every hundred.
"When it is considered," the re- Periodic examination of school
port of the 8-viee atalea, "that children for the disease and the ex
thnusands of persons suffering with elusion of the afflicted from the
trachoma, a dangerous contagious public schools, are two of the rec
disease, would otherwise remain ommendations the Public Health
untreated, it is realized how far- Service lays emphasis upon. .
reaching results have been obtain- One of the special features of the
ed through these trachoma hospi- trachoma work was the giving of ec.
tals and the other public health tures and clinics before medical so-
work done in this connection. It cieties in various counties where tra- hv both white and colored residents
would be impossible to estimate choma hospitals could not be es-f 'hat section,
with any degree of accuracy the tahlished. Patients were operated Paducah' Commissioner Faces Boot
number of people who have been upon in the presence of physician I legging Count
saved from contracting this com- and the most modern methods of! Commissioner Thomas H. Haielip,
munirahle disease by thus remov- treatment demonstrated. Through-' former Councilman Oeorge Jacobs,
Ing these thousands of foci of infer- out, the purpose has been to stim.john Hast, secretary of the Bar
tion." ulate local interest in taking up thejtenders' Union, and Patrolman Cas
In addition to treating persons campaign to eradicate trachoma. 'per Jones were charged with selling
CONTENTS
PAGE 1 Editorial: Pithy Points to
Ponderi Publie Health Service Hos-
pitals Cure Trachoma. Our Own
State News. United States News.
World and War News.
PAGE 1 Departmental Columns,
Literature For Rural Schools.
?. 7 Washington. D. a has recently do- the police court.
Story: Who Kissed Him,- Comio signaled March tth to tlth., as Babv Barksdsle Hamlett Is Sued for Di
Pictures. Week" to be observed by all vorce
PAGE 4. Locals. Observing "Baby throughout the United States. We A dispatch from Elizahethtown
Week" March 4th to 11th. .should be interested In this move nv that Mrs. Daisy Hamlett, wife
1G. - local News Items ! from the work now under way by of Barksdale Hamlett. former Sup-
ru e. i.ocm new. no.... ,,r own Kentucky Children's Home erintendent of Puhlie Instruction.
PAGE . Mountain Agriculture: Oats; Society. Read the article on fourth who is now contesting the election
Notice to Club Members. Notice pa(rp relative to their work and of Secretary of State James P. Lew
from County Agent Farmers' Meet- nPP(js. u j, WOrthy of every good I, fled suit in the Hardin Circuit
IngJ Home Department More Veg- rjtjnPn's svmpathy and support i Court Saturday for divorce alleging
etable Recipes. Young Folks Corner. cruel treatment. She pravs for 1 O.
Cincinnati Markets. Fashion Col- The farm page is especially Inter- ooo alimonv and the custody of their
umn. est ing and Important at this time, three children. Mrs. Jlamlett Is now
' PAGE 7. International Sunday School In this Issue you will find a good ar- in Flizabelhtown with her parents.
Lesson. Washington has Puule In tide on the oat crop. Note what' There were rumors during the
Women. To Make and Keep Roads our County Agent. Spence. says about campaign last summer of trouble In
DryjThe Pixie Highway.
PAGE I. East Kentucky News.
Hie Exercise.
Tonr husband pores over his books
too much." . "He loves to read." "Bull
he should eierciae." "Oh. he eior
clses The doctor told him the same
thing So now be has taken up golf
by mall." Louisville Courier-Journal
'
PROM OUR MAIL BAG
"The Citiien is weloomed by me
and read with much interest It is
like getting help in time of need. I
don't see how any one who has ever
been to Berea can leave and not take
The Citizen.
J. CO. Louisville, Ky.
The Forester'! Daughter, our next
serial, by Hamlin Garland is a good
one. it is a siorjr of lire in tne greet
Western forest, a tale of adventure,
I
been used for educational work
Doctors and nurses have visited
the homes of the patients and have
explained how to prevent the de
velopment and recurrence of the
disease.- One thousand three hun
dred and eight such visits were
made during the year in Kentucky
alone. "It has taken some time
(lark plots, and love that seeks and
finds itself In the uniting of the
hero and heroine of the story,
If you like a good story read this
one. The first chapter will come out
next week. Don't fall to slart with
the first chapter. We always try to
(five you something that Interests
every story reader.
The FWi riiiidiw. iWflo,, r
April and what will be done. Next
week we shall publish an Interest-
ing article from the Conway Farm-
cr s improvement nun which ought
to encourage every farm community
to organize in the same way.
, .
Our advertisers are always satis-
flpd with rMuUs m1 on settlement
of accounts invariable write like this,
"Enclosed find our check for adver.
jtlsing. We thank you very much
, for your courteous treatment shown
lus." We work on the cooperative
plan and are Interested In the busl-
ness of our advertisers. Try us.
It Is certainly gratifying to learn
that The Citizen eontinues to grow
in favor among our towns people,
Our local mailing list far exceeds
anything in the past. Say, people,1
you are not loyal citizens when you
refuse the home paper that makes
your town worth living in. How
about it?
III OUR OWN STATE
Henry county will vote on a 1300,-
ooo road bond issue within the next
sixty days, the Fiscal Court an
nounced Tuesday of this week.
l
Sale of 10,000 acres of rich Morgan
county coal and timber land to W,
S. Whiting of North Carolina wee
announced at Lexington on the
twenty-first. The price was report
ed as fliA.OOO.
An attendance of 4.000 marked
the opening of Louisville's ninth an
nual automobile show at the Ar
mury Monday night. "Washington's
birthday party" was the feature at
traction Tuesday night.
County officials of Kentucky are
requested by R. C. Terrell, State
Commissioner of Roads, in a circular
letter mailed out Monday, to urge
the Kentucky Senators to support
the Shackleford hill in Congress,
which, if passed, will give Kentucky
approximately 750,ooo Federal
money to assist in Slate road work.
Body of Rockcastle Man Found
The body of Bailie Mullins of
Rockcastle County, wanted at Paris
for the murder of Quincey fry and
the serious wounding of R. T. Mad-
dox Sunday morning, was found on
railroad track in Clark County
Monday morning. With the body
of Mullins was the mutilated body
of his nephew, Rimer Harris, said
by Paris police to have been the
fourth man in the Sunday brawl.
Margaret Drake, Colored, Believed
Te Be Oldest Woman in Ken
tncky
Margaret Drake, coiored, said to
be ti5 years old and reputed to be
the oldest woman in Kentucky, died
at her home in Woodford county
following a protracted illness. She
resided with her daughter on the
farm of Mr. Wiggleworth, near Fay
wood. Besides her daughter she Is
survived by four grandchildren and
four great-grandchildren. Up to a
few months ago, when she was tak
en ill, she possessed a remarkable
memory for one of her great lon
gevity and could tell about occur
rences that belonged to past gener
ations. She was highly respected
liquor without a license in warrants
issued the IRth by Police Judge
Crossland. The warrants were sworn
ut as the result of an Investigation
made by Judge Crossland.
The violation of the city laws
charged in the warrants is alleged
to have occurred at the Independent
Club, of which Harelip Is president.
and the three other defendants offi
cers and members. The four gave
Wno bond for their appearance In
the family and it was said that di-
vorce proceedings would be Instl-
tuted. but pressure was brought to ,
near 10 prevent, um n raui "i
" possinie etreci upon tne ranoi-
dacy of the derennanl.
Mew Town Booming
Contracts have been let for the
building of nine new structures in
the town of Ravena. Estill County,
Among these Is a larsre business
block for the I.. N. Railway Co..
to contain a department for the post
office at that place as well as sev.
ernl business rooms. The other
.buildings will be residences for of-
flcials and employees of the corn-
nanv. I. H. King, a local contractor.
has been awarded the contracts and
will begin at once to get his work
under way.
i
Be courageous and noble-minded:
our own heart and not other men's!
opinions of us. forms our true hon
or. Schiller.
U, S, NEWS
Rural school welfare was the
principal subject discussed at the
meeting of the National Education
Association in Detroit Tuesday.
rWrelary Houston and Thomas D.
Jones of Chicago arft the two men
now considered by President Wilson
for the place as Secretary of War.
A citizen soldier reserve army was
urged by Oen. Leonard Wood In an
address last Sunday before a New
York Y. M. C. A.
f '
Tension over the American Gov
ernment's latest request for assur
ance from the Central Powers on
submarine warfare is Increasing in
Washington official circles.
Washington's birthday annivec
sary was observed throughout the
nation Tuesday. President Wilson
took part in the exercises in the
national capital.
Henry Cohn, just released from an
English detention camp, will start a
campaign in the United States to al
low foreigners held In European de
tention ramps to come to this coun
try. I
EMIL0 AGUINALDO
Farmer Filipino Chief Heads Pe
tition For Pardon of American.
7
hit ki'"',' s
t v.:
Photo by American Praaa AaoodaUoa.
U.S. MARSHALS MADE
PRISONERS ON APPAM
German Commander Puts Guard
Orer Officers.
Norfolk, Va., Feb. 21. Lieutenant
Berg, commanding the captured Brit
ish liner Appam, practically made
prlaoners of the two United States
deputy marshals placed on his ship
by order of the federal court, follow
ing proceedings brought by the
African Steam Navigation company,
limited, of Liverpool, to secure pos
session of the ship. He did not give
the two Americans any food and for
bade them from going about the ahip.
They were obliged to remain aft and
were practically under guard.
When United States Deputy Saund
ers went on board the Appam Lieut.
Berg practically ignored him. He re
fused to have anything to do with the
marshal until Collector of Customa
Hamilton, who protested against the
action of the deputy marshal In serv-
ing papers on the Appam, came to his
assistance. He Anally agreed to talk
with Saunders and the whole situation
waa explained to him.
Lieutenant Berg received several
bulky letters and telegrams and It Is
said he plana to hold a conference
with representatives from the German
ratav. The ouesMnn of securing
counsel to renrsnt Germany in the
court pro-ee;M-s for the possession
of the ship will be discussed. It Is
said.
DUG GRAVE PEc0RE MURDER
Woman Confessts Husband snd An
other Man Killed Victim.
Chicago, Feb. 11. An u murder,
planned so carefully that even the
grave for the victim waa dug before
he was slain, waa revealed, the police
eay, In a confession by Mrs. Teofll
Zdrowskt.
.According to the ajlea jCjcfooalon.
(Continued on Fas FIto)
tx -
I. T. T. LINCOLN
Gorman Spy Recaptured After
Having Eluded U. S. Officials.
LINCOLN, THE SPY, HAS
TIME TO THINK IT OVER
Is Resting lo Solitary Confine
ment In Jail.
New Tork, Feb. tl. Ignatius T.
Lincoln, benighted spy. Is resting In
solitary confinement In the Raymond
street Jail, Brooklyn, thinking over
the snappy things ho had written,
twitting the federal authorities about
his own eluslveness previous to his
capture.
He was held absolutely Incommuni
cado. Orders were given by First
Deputy Marshal Parry and by J. A.
Baker, acting head of the local office
of the special Investigators of the de
partment of Justice, not to pennlhlm
to receive or send out any message or
to hold converse with anybody.
Federal agents under Mr. Baker
were continuing their inquiry along
lines that may bring further arrests
In connection with Lincoln's escape
and harboring In various places.
The line of Inquiry is directed In
four different ways. First, Into the
details of escape; secondly, the per
sons who gave htm lodging or helped
him during his freedom; thirdly,
whether he hsd any direct communica
tion with the newspaper that received
letters from him and whether he re
ceived money from the editors;, fourth
ly, whether any money from the pub
lishers got into his hands after his
escape through various mediums.
Lincoln has announced that he Is
ready to tell. He has refused, how
ever, to give the name of the chauf
feur, who, driving a seven seated tour
ing car, stopped in front of the Hof
brau Haus, at Broadway and Thirtieth
street, snd was handing Lincoln sev
eral baggage checks when the latter
felt a revolver boring Into his ribs.
PRISONERS KILL SHERIFF
Mutiny, Lock Officer In Cell and Make
Getaway.
Deming. N. M., Feb. 21. Prisoners
in the county Jail here mutinied,
locked the sheriff and his attendants
In a cell, telephoned for an automo
bile and escaped In It. and later In a
battle with the sheriff and bis posse,
killed the sheriff.
The prisoners told the garage keep
er It was Sheriff Dwight Stevens talk
ing and that the car was wanted to
take a alck man to a hospital.
The chauffeur waa locked up with
the sheriff and the prisoners escaped
In the car after first looting the mili
tia armory for rifles and ammunition.
Later the sheriff secured his release
and. with a posse followed the prison
ers. In a battle the sheriff was killed.
It Is reported. Two of the escaped
prisoners were murderers.
Allies Oocupy Anothsr Greek Island.
Athens, Greece, Feb. 21. The min
istry of the interior announces that a
detachment of allied forces has oc
cupied Orthonl, a small Island near
Corfu. The reason for the occupation
Is unknown. Orthonl Is the old name
for the Island of Fano, occupation of
which by a French detachment waa
reported unofficially on Feb. f.
Record Made by Ssaplan.
Los Angeles, Feb. 21. A new
world's record for sustained Bight la
a seaplane has been established by
Corporal W. I. 8mlth, attached to the
army signal corps at North Island,
San Diego. His record was eight
hours and forty minutes and waa made
by a hydroaeroplane,
WORLD HEWS
u.
The rapture of Erzeum by tho
Russians is one of the most impor
tant events of the week. This place
is the rapitol of Armenia and the
largest city. The possession of it
gives the Russians control of certain
roads that, lead into Asia Minor and
Persia, and is a great advantage to
them. It was taken only after a
desperate attack of five days. Some
reports indicate the number, of
Turks raptured as large and others
say the main army escaped.
1
The oroceedinirs of the United
States with Germany over the Lus
itania affair have been brought to a
stop on account of the note which
Germany issued to the world that
she would sink any merchant or
passenger vessel by her submarines,
without warning, if such vessel was
armed to protect itself. It is not
clear that the United States can ac
cept this doctrine and the impres
sion grows that it. was a too hasty
action on the part of Germany.
The papers, in commenting on the
recent coronation ceremonies con
nected with the accession of the
new Emperor of Japan, note the
prominent recognition of the Bud
dhist religion in connection with the
event. Although this was disap
pointing to the missionaries in Ja
pan and the Christian population
yet it is regarded as a step in ad
vance, on the whole. Shintoism,
the former Japanese religion, is
practically a worship of the state,
and the new order at least places
religion above the state and Chris
tianity may ere long supplant Bud
dhism. The English have driven the Ger
mans from the Kamerun district in
western Africa, entirely. This is a
section hundreds of thousands of
miles in extent and with a popula
tion of over two millions mostly
native blacks. It is the center of
important trading interests and has
some of the largest missionary Sta
tions in Africa. It is in this prov
ince that Mr. and Mrs. Dager have
been working so long and with such
marked success.
King Peter, the refugee monarch
of Servia, from his hidden retreat
has taken occasion to issue an in
terview in which he speaks with
feeling and appreciation of the
"great heartedness" of the United
States in helping his country, es
pecially in the effort to stamp out
the deadly disease of typhus which
threatened to destroy his people en
tirely. Fearful wind storms have raged
along the western coasts of Europe
during the week. They blew from
the north west and have caused the
waters of the Ocean to break over
the dykes in places and flood the
lowlands of Holland and Belgium.
In many cases trenches are filled
with water and military operations
are impossible. Some movements
of importance are reported to have
been checked from this cause.
The section of East Prussia in
which the Russians did so much
damage in the earlier stages of the
war is slowly being rebuilt. It is
reported that the new plans include
many of the features of our better
American cities. We have much
to learn from Europe in regard to
the management of cities and it is
encouraging to know that they can
find something to admire and copy
from American cities.
It is only a few years that air ves
sels of various kinds have been of
nractical use to man and yet it has
been estimated that now there are
from five to ten thousand men in the
air most of the time. By day they
are engaged in spying out the land
of the enemy and by night in carry-'
ing the death-dealing explosives to
drop on some city or munition fac
tory of their foe. The number is
constantly increasing and improve
ments are being made in navigating
the air.
HOSPITAL DESTROYED BY FIRE.
Maaalllon. O. Fire destroyed th
laundry building at the State Hospital
for the Insane, near here, with a lost
estimated at 160,000. For a time, II
waa believed the flames would spread
to cottages In which 1.600 patieoti
were confined. The origin of the nri
has not been determined. No oo
was Injured, snd nurses reported
there was no panic among the inmates.
