i:CiTl: '? mt ' ^ i*
"V?- - V ? i-^Ti^i f c y tO<r-r^':-)"i ^'|j ^ jl M jj ??<
TODAY'S NEWS TODAY
FAIRMONT,
ASSOCIATE
b)^i2??-'
l-ense Legislative Situation Created by
|Efforts Officially to Warn Americans
Against Traveling on Armed
Merchantmen
FI1LY 111 PAT
German Internal Politics Is Reported To Have Given a
Dangerous Turn to the Negotiations Now Pend
ing With That Country.
v. WASHINGTON, Feb. 24.?-Congress assembled today with the agita
tion lor ucuon warning Americana oft belligerent ships overshadowing all
Other nutfdUons. ivc&idtmc wiisons supporters, apprehensive that the
smouldering- sentiment iuignt uiazo up to embaruss diplomatic negotiations
;with; Ueriimuy; were wonung 10 noid the administration forces in line
ana to lceep tue question 1/0ai ihe lioor of both House and Senate.
,The legislative siiuatiou 111 both Houses favor the administration
forces. Worn went to mo cap.ioi again early today that President Wil
son's opposition to any action by congress was unshaken and that Chair
man Stone auu Pioou of tue committee dealing with foreign affairs, could
explain ins puBiuou tuny.
administration otucials outside Congress profess to be undisturbed by
the agitation at tue capitoi una expressed confidence that the President's
' position woula be supported.' it was apparent that much of the chafing
'in. Congress was due to a lack of information of the^President's attitude.
One possibility whjcn stood out among all others was that the whole* sit
uation might ,b? r^auced to a proposal that Congress exprepied?thi&seu-s
timeni tt&t*'Americans should not oring their country "into danger of war
?by^faaveiiug on ships winch Germany has announced, she will sink with
out'"'Warning.
'ng^The extent to which the political element enters into the present sit
uation has not tfeeu diacloseu, Administration supporters, however, re
1^11 .that foitner Secretary of State Bryan broke with the President and Jeft
tlie cabinet over the question of warning Americans off belligerent ships.
Among thOBe who now are supporting the agitation to put Bryan's pro
posal into legislative action aro some Senators and Representatives who
jiyo been numbered among Mr. Jbryan's admirers, but it is true that
some of them also are classed as supporters of the President.
the President is represented
||$is'having; come to the conclusion that
lithe submarine negotiations should be
Bdfc'ttled without more delay, Germany
iias not replied to the latest reiiuest3
from Washington for a declaration
ffitfiatS her previous assurances for (he
ipafety of unresisting liners apply to
Bt(li'e~'f,conduct of the now submarine
campaign. Germany lias iuilicated
v that it tho United States Insists on
Sftgejf contention that unarmed ships
Igand, shipB armed only ior defensive
purposes are in the cams class, so
SfaSSfas tlioir immunity rrom attack
^?without warning is concerned, she
wants. to discuss what properly may
|jbe"defensivo armament in light of evi
dence, she claims to have that armed
British merchantmen have been at
tacking her submersibles. Under these
circumstances administration siipport
Bters do not see how a breach can be
immediately imminent.
[gKWhlle tho new submarine campaign
K^es Into effect March 1, there are
Indications from German ituarters
that the attitude of the Uniteu States
S-is:,fdUy understood and that tho con
sequences of he destruction of tiiore
American lives is fully realized. In
that connection that Internal situation
Kin Germany comes In for considera
tion. Private advices from Germany
enell how the civilian clement at court
^headed by the Chancetlor, which has
contended for preserving friendly re
lations with the United States, has
gfbeen overshadowed by a political
force iheaded by General ^on Falken
hayn, chief of staff of the army, who
Wisrsai'd to have gathered the element
jg-which were led by Grand Admiral von
HMijiitz before the civilian element be
Ecame ascendant, some six months ago.
Bjhe.private advices tell how Emperor
Bjwtlllam is almost constantly associate
MMtyfhis many visits to the various
Kfirpnts with the military element al
?most-to the exclusion of tho civilian
element and that von Falkenhayn, In a
?Ipsition where he has the fullest con
fidence of the Emperor, is said tc. be
a believer in relentless use of avail
BKble military and naval weapon and
?misrepresented to be one of tho.par
ty which does not. consider that a
break with the United States would
?effect'Germany's, succes in the war.
These views are understood to have
iSefof. communicated to President Wll
X&ph. While confidence was express
Bejilh administration circles that Con
Igress would take no action, no at
Steinpt was made to minimize tho seri
ousness of the submarine controversy,
Skrid.frone senator in the confidence of
the White House was quoted as saying
lie thought the situation the most sor
lous that had faced the United States
'iinca the European war started.
IffiPresident Wilson was represented
Ms calmly determined to steadfastly
Lmaintain tho rights of Americans to
Bravel on armed merchantmen.
I CZAR BACK AT FRONT ?
BTROORAD. Feb. 24.?Emperor
M||gho',viaited the Duma at its.
setslbm yestard ay and' deliver
iX address to the members haa
GORE DENIES HE
ACTS FOR SRYAN
Republican Holds Up At
tempt to Embarras the
President.
(By Awociatcd Proiw.)
WASHINGTON, Feb. 23?Tho first
attempt to Introduce legislation warn
ing Americans ot belligerent ships
made in Congress today by Senator
Gore,-" a Democrat, was primarily
blocked by Senator Brandeges, a Re
publican, and ui>-lor the rules of the
senate cannot ~e resumed until tomor
row.
Senator Goro sought to introduce
his bill to prohibit the passage ot
Americans on Buch ships and also to
introduce a concurrent resolution re
quiring tho passage by the house but
uulike his bill not tuO approval of the
President.
Senator Gore Issued a statement de
claring "It seems to me the ship ot
state is drifting or driving headlong '
upon the breakers. 1 do not say de
liberately but I fear directly upon the
breakers."
When asked about the report that
he had conferred with former Secre
tary Bryan before preparing -his bill
and resolution Senator Gore said "I
had not seen Mr. Bryan since last
January. 1 did not talk to"""him at
that time about the bill on this sub
ject j had then introduced.
"Of course) I know Mr. Bryan favors
the action Mich as I propose."
Paijd Thirty Dollars
For Shooting Friend
Nuam Kott, of Farmlngton, paid a
fine of $30 and costs this morning In
the court of Squire B. Leigh Fleming
on an assault and battery charge. Kott
was the man wanted for the shooting
of Alex Besby at Farmlngton on De
cember 22,. He escaped the night of
the afTray.
Besby, the man who was injured by
the bullet refused to tell of Kott's
whereabouts and even while in a dying
condition shielded him from the police.
Besby got well and Kott gave him
self up to the police this morning. No
witnesses to appear against Kott, the
state waived the felony charge and
charged him with assault and battery.
heWriim4-gM;i^eatwd.
Captain Reno of Pittsburgh
Says Pier Would Impede
Navigation.
?Representatives of the Pittsburgh
division of United States Engineers
met the city officials and representa
tives of the railroads and river navi
gation interests this afternoon in the
local Chamber of Commerce rooms.
The meeting was held for the purpose
of hearing any objections that might
be offered by anyone to the proposed
plan of the new bridge across the Mo
nongahela at Fairmont.
Shrewsbury Miller representing tho t
city authorities stated the proposeo
plan for the bridge which Is to be a
concrete structure with three piers.
The spons between the piers on
the proposed plan are to to be 225 feet
long and the piers 20 feet thick. One
pier is to bo placed 30 feet from the
eastern shore of the stream and one
In the middle and one on tho weBtorn
shore at the pool level.
The chief objection to the proposeo
plan was offered by Captain J. L.
Reno of Harbor 25 at Pittsburgh. Cap
tain Reno represents the Interests of
the coal and river freight cnrrlers and
the Masters and Pilots association.
H> objections wore that the pier SO
fc<t from the eastern shore would
make it difficult to land steamboats
at the local wharf, in high water.
The railroad officials seemed to
have no objections to tho proposed
plans. .
The Pittsburgh party arrived in the
city over the Pennsy line at 12:36.
Becauseofmlsapprehensionroncerning
the time set for the hearing, there was
nobody home at the Cliambor of Com
merce, and the party cooled their
heels in front of the Watson building
standing in the pouring rain until the
janitor of the building could be found
to unlock the chambers and let them
in.
Mayor Bowen was the first to,arrive
shortly, after one o'plock ,.an4 heJcall
oi the other local men torlftirry them'
to the meeting. ' ^
The Pittsburgh party was compos
ed of Captain C. L. Sturdevant, of the
United States corps of emgltteers; A.
B. McGrcw, assistant United Stales en
gineered Rowland Jones stenograph
er, all from the Pittsburgh division or
United States engineers. . R. E. Was
mer, of the B, & 0., Captain J. L. Reno,
and R. D. Hennen and Major Brady, of
the B. & N. railroad. Captain Sturde
vant presided at the meeting in the ab
sence of Colonel Shunk who was
able to bo present
The United StatOB officials left this
evening on the P. & L. train at'4;30.
The plans and objections of the in
terested parties will be considered by
tho engineers and a report made to
nnnerGRs before a bill nermlttlng the
West Fork Fishes
Will Have. Big Heads
This afternoon 10 gallons of good
whiskey was poured out at Monongah
and allowed to run down a sewer Into
the West Fork river -where only the
little fishes can get it.
The 10-gal)on keg of whiskey was
shipped to Monongah packed In a
larger barrel which was labeled "50
gallons of vinegar," and billed to
Louis Nogie.
Justice T. G. Price -was notified of
the shipment and he waited several
days for Nogie to come and get the
barrel, but he failed to appear. This
mornlD g Constable William Flnley
seized -ihe suspected "vinegar," and on
opening the barrel found the whiskey
keg neatly packed inside. (It is pre
sumed, that the Constable made sure
It was whiskey by tasting it carefully
and thoroughly).
By order of Justice gfice the con
traband liquor was pourfc'd out.
Had Unlabeled Grip;
Will Do Road Work
J. H. Green, colored, from Viropa,
entered upon a term of 60 days this
morning after being sentenced to that
time and also fined $100. Green was
arrested by Harry Connors last even
ing on train No. 4 from Pittsburgh.
He had a suit case of whiskey with
out a label on the outside. He con
fessed to the charge lodged ag/lnst
him and was given the minimum.
Jailed Brewer
Is Out on Bail
<By Associated Press. 1
PITTSBURGH, Feb. 24.?H. F. For,
of New York, secretary -f the Unit
ed States Brewers' association, -who
was sent to Jail last night becnuso
he .refused to answer questions put
to him by a Federal gran.l Jury inves
tigating the illegal political activi
ties of brewers interest % was releaced
tills morning on a Jl.OTi bond.
Earlier in the day Fox's attorneys
went before court and applied for a
writ of habaes corpus. Pending ar
gument Fox was given his freedom.'
GREAT 6N0W 'STORM
(By Associated Press.);
TjONDON,' Feb. 24.?'The British
Isles today are in the grip of the ie
rarest snow storm of years. Reports
trom9thfe.cqn$lnent >show {thatf severe
James Morgan Buried
at Mt. Zion Cemetery,
FUNERAL SERVICES WERE HELD
THIS MORNING AT HIS HIGH
8TREET HOME.
. | .
Funeral slices over the body of
James E. Morgan, a prominent citizen
of thl3 city, were held this moraine
at 10 o'clock from his late home on
High street. ??
Services were conducted by Rev. C.
E. Goodwin, pastor of the First Meth
odist Episcopal church, and music was
furnished by a quarter from that
church. The pall bearers were selected
from among members of the Sunday
school class of which Mr. Morgan was
a member. Many floral tributes sur
rounded the casket, testifying to the
esteem in which Me. Morgan was held
by liis many friends.
Following the services at the home,
the body was conveyed to Mt. Zlon
cemetery where it was laid to rest. A
number of friends and relatives were
two daughters, Mrs. Thomas Howard,
of Cleveland, 0., and Brs. Gall Fish
back, of Grafton.
Discussed Problems
of Christian Church
ELDERS AND DEACONS OF THE
MONONGAHELA DISTRICT IN
SESSION HERE.
An important meeting opened this
afternoon at the Central Christian
church on Whlnut avenue at two o'
clock with several elders and deacons
from churches in the counties which
form the Monougahela district present.
Rev. C. B. Mitchell was In charge of
tho conference.
The idea of the meeting is to dis
cuss methods of work and plan larger
things in the line of religious advance
ment. After the afternoon nyeting a
supper will he served by the ladles
of the Bethany Guild, which is free to
visitors, the members of the official
board of the local church being hosts
to the visiting elders and deacons.
At this banquet Dr. L. M. Robinson,
at Shinnston will act as toastmaster.
Tho evening session willopen-at^.30
gaUon an''djffie:public. The prop-am
contains many spcciial musical num
bers besides the further discussion of
topics by visiting laymen and will be
conclude d with an address by Rev. P.
M. Baber of Clarksburg," on the sub
ject "The Church of Christ in Our
Day."
Boys Fought Hard
But Won't Tell Wiry
Mayor Price of Monongab, yesterday
held tho first Justices' court he has
hail for. several days.
Lander Haddock and Frank Dara
1vay, two boss about 14 years of age
had a violent quarrel over son#C- mat
ter which they would not tell about,
and a fine fight in which stones were
tossed carelessly was the result. Tho
Haddock boy's head Btopped one of
the stones and be laid down to think
about it. When he woke the doctor
used several etltches to repair the
damage done by the stone.
The Haddock boy lives with Allen
Crosten and on a Warrant Issued on
the camplalnt of Crosten, both boys
?were brought before the Mayor by
Special Constable W. A*. Moore. All
efforts to discover the cause of the
trouble wero In vain as the boys re
fused to talk. The boys were each fined
?1 and costs and released.
Twice One Not Two
Under the Yost Law
Paul Clayton, of Clarksburg, was
given 60 days and fined $100 by
Squire R. Leigh Fleming thismorning
upon his confession that he violated
the Tost prohibition law by earning
more than a half a gallon of whiskey
Imporperly labelled. Clayton had a bas
ket with two jugs In it, each holding
one gallon of whiskey. He had twq
labelB on the basket which read "one
gallon of whiskey." Cayton thought
that two labels each saying one gal
lon meant that the basket contained
two gallons. He was arrested by Con
stable Connors on train No. 4 from
Pittsburgh last evening.
Parents Must Send
.Children to School
Albert Fatton and Frank Great
house, of Farmington, were each fined
yesterday by Squire Lee Toothman for
not sending their children to school.
Patton t/Ss fined $5, this being his
second offense, and Greathouse ?2. his
first offense, Qreathouss was ordered
to appear before the Squire because
of a daughter 11 years old who has
never attended school. Both offenders
paid. ?
JOINING
THE STATE BODY
?'?. ~
Number From This Country
Expccted to Be 200 By
Next Week.
The enrollment campaign for the
West Virginia Educational association
is progressing splendidly. According to
County Superintendent of Schools
Toothman, the enrollment from this
county Is cxpcctcd to reach 200 by
next Friday.
The state association meets in
Clarksburg June 14,15 and 16. The to
tal enrollment from the state lost
year was 1,500. but this year is is ex
pected to be at least 25,000.
The county superintendent and the
city superintendent are both working
hard to have the enrollment as large
ns possible to represent this county.
New members are coming In every day
and possibly all of the 374 teachers
of grade schools In the county will
have enrolled by March first.
The following are the teachers who
have enrolled with the county super
intendent to date: Arma Blng, A. N.
Alleniler, Agnes Oaugban, Claude Mc
Bee, Ruth Merrifield, Mary Nuzum,
Joan Wallman, Vera Shaw, Dorothy
Knapp, Verna Kergan, Ruth Fisher,
N. G. Matthews, John W. Clark, Eva
Radabaugh, Sara Hibbs, P. M. Con
ley, J. A. OrffHam, R. S, Beckner, Jean
Downes, Katharine Haggerty, Hattle
Hall, Grace Matthews, Harriett Hogg,
Mary G. Weekly, Mernie C. Brown, R.
S. Ridenour, Jean Linn, Addle Page,
A. L. R. Toothman, Nellie Ammons,
Cora Lee Monroe, ~W'. E.' Michael, Ber
nice Foley, Alice R. Quirk, Juantta
Blackburn, Henry Orr, Charles O. My
ers, T. J. Halbert, Carl J. Carter, D.
C. Goodnight, Oliver Shurtleff, Goldie
C. James, Hellene Yost, H. R. Bart
lett, Ethel Harris, Ruby Hall, Flora
Ice, Clara J. Leaman, Mary Gaughan,
Lulu Evans, jneda.*Shanks^Adda Bur
nett, E. D. MB-fiefljguJla Dotts and ? Eli
zabeth . "i'
The city sutferintttfdsrit'lstenrolling
the teachers In Fairmont independent
district and theiinajorlty/,of the teach
-arft -in the.cltyj have.-'-sent in their
names already. -HJ' ?.'fSf-.'if.f
Make Plans For Next;
Poultry EiMbition
At the meeting held last night by
the Fairmont Poultry association in
the offico of Arthur Musgrave many
items of interest were discussed by
the members present. As guests pres
ent were W. K. Huffman, of Morgan
town, and H. B. Hubbs, of Monongah.
The second week in January was
decided upon as the time for the next
poultry show to be held In Fairmont.
This show will be a score card Instead
of a comparison exhibition. Each
bird is given so many points for each
good item of which it can boast.
The birds in each class getting the
most points win the prizes.
About 20 members were present
last night and the date for the next
meeting set by them is March 6 in
the same office.
Close to Six Hundred Guests Attend Annual Baj
the Wheeling Board of Trade and;Hea?
Preparednes Speeches.
Rev. Dr. Albert Benze Lauds the Loyalty of^thi
Element in American Life?Bishop Don;
hue on British Sloth. ?1Ill
(Staff Correspondence.
WHEELING, W. Va? Feb. 24.?
Close to COO people attonded the an
nual benquet of the Wheeling Uoarl
of Trade, held In tho Market Audi
torium In this city loBt night, and
were treated to some ot the best ora
tory that has been loosed in this state
tor some time. Hon. Theodore E. Bur
ton, former United States Senator
from Ohio, who has announced him
self a candidate for the Republican
Presidential nomination at the nation
al convention to'be held In Chicago
In June, was the guest of honor and
made the principal address of the
evening,; his subject being "West Vir
gtnli'and Tier Future."
He was followed by the Rt. Rev.
P. J. Donohue, Bishop of Wheeling,
who apo^e on "Our Nation's Dignity."
The final address of the evening-was
made by Rev. Dr. Albert L. Benze,
.pastor of Zion Lutheran church, ot
this city, whose topic was "Our Citi
zenship, United and Inseparable."
The entire gathering was Imbued
with the spirit of tlio occasion "Amer
ica First". The affair was scheduled
as an rtVAjjjeHca first.,Feast,'- and
that3?;lj.WiHo'tO;U? adrau^notices
goeafs^^noutvJ'aayifis. There*a
pleasing punch to every action at the
gathering and the very . atmosphere
was permeated-with, the good, old O.
0. P. spirit. Republican leaders and
candidates-sfrom alt over tho state
traced the festive board, each contri
buting .his individual personality to
the consummate splendor/of' the, occa
sion. - '
Preparedness was the underlying
theme of each- address. Tfie speeches
rang with patriotism of the superlative
brand and were received by a patriot
ic audience in a patriotic manner. Love
of country Is still the predominant fac
tor In the United States, all assertions
to the contrary notwltstandlng, if tho
meeting last night may be taken as
a reliable criterion of national' condi
tion and expression.
Senator Burton made a powerful ad
dress. \It ^was. clean' cut, non-partisan;
not an address up in th%. clouds, but
one which appealed to all for its
abundance of solid thought and com
mon sense. Notwithstanding the fact
that Senator Burton had but announ
ced his candidacy for the highest office
in the land, he did not allude even
once to his candidacy, nor did he take
occasion to make a tirade against the
policy ot the present administration,
but contented himself with a speech,
NOW HERE
NEWCOMER MOTOR K
CAR COMPANY ill
5tK Street and i^rmont Avenue v 8
