it
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, FEDRUARY 24, 1916.
NUMBER 35.
GERMANS LAUNCH
GREAT OFFENSIVE
ON 20-MILE FRONT
evcn Army Corps Comprising ,
280,000 Men Hurled nprainsl 1
the French North of Verdun'
Fortress.
BATTLE GROWS IS INTENSITY!
i
;
1
teutons' Preparations Extensive,
i
French Positions Being Un
interruptedly Bombarded with
Thousands of Shells Reports
Conflict as to Success.
Parli, Feb .'3 -The b.mh "I Vciiluu
rontlniles with growing intcnsit v. II ex
tends ovrr a fimil nl fin t v klloniclics
(2n mile), ami seven Gitm.tny nrniy mrps
(2Mt,0"0 incit) nil' engaged. 'I'hls annnnnce
in lit nas made olfUiullv X.y the war ot
ll''C to-night
London, Fib J.t Ttonps
bc'onglng In
"en German army corps
under i 'i own
J'lllici Frederick William, ale encaged
Hong a tvvnt-Mvc mile flout noitli of
" f r (1 u 1 1 In a desperate effort to dtlve
hack tllO I'lTIH'll defending fol'Cl-S, pioh-
n lily with the captuic of the gicit
lei tress of V rilim In view.
There hail been vorv l'a''v lighting
for a considerable pciioil in tills district
or Ihe French war zone. Init within the
las' few rlayp the attacks of the Germans
liaio taken on aihleil strength. The buttle-
line ha been extended and now rc.iih
rd from Mnlnneourl, on the west, lo I'tuln,
on the cast, with Verdun in tin: lenter,
onh a few miles soiilhwaid
The German claim to Imve made Impor
tant advance", mill to some cx'lcnl there
re admitted by the f'reneh war ufllee.
vlnch descilhes the battle n- one of in
l rcafing lllten-dtv.
The German prcp.iiatlnns uerc exten
sive, and th" botnhanlnient of th l'"renc'h
positions with thousands of shulls was
iir interrupted. As tlie French had fore
Keen fh'n battle all ihrlr available guns
were called into artlon and responded In
kind to tbc beav shelling of tbo Ger
mans While at sonic points the Flench
were unable to resist the onslaught of
tin attacking forces, along much of
the fiont, according to the Paris com
munication, the attacks were well sus
tained anil very heavy losses Wore in
11' tril on tl e Crerinaus.
On the flussian and Austrian fronts
there has been considerable lighting
and the Italians admit that at one. point
the Austria.!!? succeeded in penetrating
their line". No late .advices have been
leeched from the Caucasus, whore the,
Kussians are continuing their pursuit
of the retreating Turks.
GERMANY PROTESTS
APPAM PROCEEDINGS
ItrprrneiilM 'I'll at .i Aetlnn Clin
i.i
ngnliiKt the Selieil I.lncr.
Washington. IVb. 13. Formal roprc
ncntatlons were made to the state dc
pai tment by the German embassy against
the proceedings hrounht In the federal
courts at Norfolk to return the captured
linur Appam to her owners.
In a notn ))ri"ntpl by Count von
Bwrnstorff, the rferman ambassador, It H
contended that many precedents, as wnll
as the tcrmH of th Prussian-American
treaty, provldn that no Icfral action can
Hi ni;ainst th Appam, held bv a ("Jonnan
i. lew as a prize of war, nor avralnst Lieu
tenant He.rK, her rommandei
The note snecests that when tile case
comes up In court March " that the statu
department Inform tho court of tlio terms
of the tieat
THEODORE E. BURTON
IS A CANDIDATE
Official Announcrmrnt of I'rrNldrntlal
Aiplrnflnni by Km-Senator from Ohio.
Uoliimlrtia. Ohio, Feb. 23. Theodore. 13.
r.nrtnn, former Unlled Stater, senator from
tjhio to-day omclally beoanio a candidate
for the republican nomination for preal
dont. Three dnrlatatloni) of eandldaclon
for delcKatcs-nt-larpre to thn republican
rational convention, (lied with Secretary
of Stato lllldcbraml were accompanied by
formal matnmentH, slsned ihy .Mr, liuiton.
i:lvln pemilsslon for use of his name In
connection with the presidential nnml
nation.
Tho declarations weie tiled by Tutted
Rtnto Senator Warien C, HaxdlnR, (Jov.
omor Krank It. Willis and William Coopei
Proctor, a manufacturer of Cincinnati.
Knelt declared his first choice for th
lirobldcntlal nomination is Mr. Burton but
did not Indlcato a second choice, as r
riulien tiy tnn unio primary law, cte-
tary of State Hlldcbrand, howevor, has
ruled that the naming of a second cholcn
li not necessary when only one candidate
for president has notilled him of his candl
dacy
.1. E. McCONNELL CO., INC.
llurlluRloii Firm IIiin in,MHI Cnpitnl
Four Ineorpurnt or.
Montpcller, Fob. 23. At tides of asso
ciation have been filed with the pccie
tary of stato by the John 10, McConnell
Co,, inc., of Burlington, with capital
stock of $10,000, with 10) shares. Thn
firm is incorporated to do u general
business In ladlos' furnishings, The In
corporators nro .1. 11, McConnell, Nellie
W McConnell nnd George K. Whitney
of lturllnglon nnd M. II. Pratt of Itlver
sldi I! I
Fcmnps ten minutes devoted to lead
ins tho store ads will nhow you how to
.ivc soino "ical money' 'on to-Uay'a
iiurcUftscs,
CONGRESS MA Y TAKE
HAND IN SETTLING
ARMED SHIP POLICY
Unalterable Opposition of President
Action Warning Americans Off
Carrying' Guns Starts Agitation in House and
Senate Sentiment of House Members Will
Be Canvassed by Democrats of Foreign Af
fairs Committees.
WashingloP. Feb. '"!. Agitation III
1 ongrcss fur notion warning Americans
"fr armed sHpr. or the i.uiupcau boi-
liferents suddenly gicw to such propoi-
tkniH to-d.iy tlmt the democrats of tin
'foreign nifulrr committee vultil to cali-
v.is.' the hentinicnl of the House on
sexeral peniHitf; rcsolutb ns uf that na
ture. Seitllmeiit in the Senate, in fax or of
soniis siicli action, also was openly r-i
pressed, but at the end of a day of
surprises, tension and agitation sucli j
as has not been seen In Conirress In
sumo tline, the word eaine that l'rcsl
ilcut Wilson still was unalterably op
posed to au such action by Congress
and bcllecd that he would only be
cmbarresscd thereby In the negotia
tions with llertnnio .
To widely circulated susuestions tliat
the situation had leached a point when
Ithe President soon would lay it before
I Consress, that Secretary Lansing iiiIkIU
in some v.iij deiinc t lie attitude of the
uowrmnciil In a roinniunicatlon to Sen
ator Stone and that a time bad been
llxed within which the rutted States
would expect (iermany to signify her
Intention to abandon the announced In
tention to sink aimed merchant ships
without warning, the uniform statement
was made officially that nothing had
been ili termiiied upon, thai the situa
tion, l hough grave, still was a waiting
one; and that no linal position would
be announced until llerlln was hoard
ft om.
The sudden dr elopinents at tiie Capi
tol brought surprise and apprehension
tile administration leaders. While con
fronted with the possibility of congres
sional inlerferem c. Willi all its grave
aspects langlng from a defection from
the administration poliry to downright
cmbat rassment or tho Prciilent and tho
secretary of state, the leaders were rnn
lldent they would control the situation
uud leave the executive branch of thu
government free to carry on diplomatic
negotiations with Germany.
At no time to-day did tho question
come out openly on the floor of either
the Houso or tho Somite, hut about a
score of congresmen, who announced
they were In favor of warning Ameri
cans even If It Involved a repudiation
of tlie administration policy it thereby
tliej thought wai' would be averted,
kopt both Houses m a state of tension
that virtually blocked business.
All the demonstration was In th" demo
ratlc ranks and there, was no open show
of sentiment among the republicans. It
was indicated, liownver, that ttepublieau
Leader Mann sympathized with Piesi
dent 'W ilson'f policy anil that anv out
break would have to ri"kon with his
forces.
From apparently authentic source
came statements to-night that the Presi
dent was detei mined that tho .Maputo,
pending with Germany will be ..ettled
without prolonged negotiations. He is
known to believe, however, that tbo
breaking off of diplomatic relations with
Germany means war and there will In
no undue hasto In handling the situa
tion Involving such a possibility.
riio administration view is that a broad
and Importnnt principle Is Involved in
the right of Americans to travel on
belligerent merchantmen, and that this
right must not be abandoned.
Developments are oxpected momentar
ily. To-morrow may bring Germany's re
ply to the request of tho 1'nltcd States,
made last week through Ambassador Yon
uerasiorii, ir h.iuiiiih.'i m.n. hh; iiuuiuj
of Intention to sink armi mercnaiumcn
without warning aftor February 29 does
not nullify prevloun plodges given In the
Arabic and Jiisltanla negotiations. Offl.
clal advices from Berlin have Indicated
that Germany will reply that prevloun
assurances will not be affected, but thai
they applied only to unarmed ships, and
utobably will ask tho American govern
ment for its (lennltion of defonrlvo arma
ments which may bo carried by a mer
chantman without sacrificing Its peaceful
character.
Tho state department will take no
GERMAN BATTLE FLEET
HAS NEW COMMANDER
Vlcc-Adinlrnl Sclierr Will Sncceed Ad
miral n Pool.
Berlin via Txmdon, Feb. 23. It is an
nounced that Vlce-Admlral Rclnhardt
Scheer has been npixilnted commander of
tho German battle fleet. In succession to
Admiral von Pnhl, who, aftor holding the
position for a year. Is retiring on account
of ill health.
Admiral Scheer Is considered one of the
most capable tacticians in the German
navy and is regarded as a man not onlv
of forcnfulness, but aim of Idea, Ifo was
for a long time employed as director of
tho general marine department at the.
admiralty and lie has also has held com
mand in tho active service as chief of thn
high sea fleet and an commander of a
battlo squadron. To his active direction
Is attributed the leeent Increased nctllty
of tho Geimnny navy,
WILL FIGHT FORD
WITH LIKE WEAPONS
American Ilefeime Society Will Also
Start AilvcrtlaliiK Cuiniinlicn.
New York, Fob. 23. The. American Do
fensc society announced to-night tlmt It
would begin at open on advertising cam
palsu In newspapers and magazines
throughout tho country lo offset Henry
Ford's antl-prepnicdnesH advertising
piopnganda
Tho advertisements will no paid for in
part by popular Hubsctlptlons, accotdlnu
to ollltlalu of the defense society.
Towards
Vessels
tiellon pending tho rccnlpt of this tc-
Hionse, and officials also nie awaiting
with Interest the arrival of certain ap
pendices to Germany's most recent dec
laration which are coming fioin Berlin
by mall. Only sis' days remain, how
ever, before tlie new older tn subma
rine commander goes into effect. There;
have been significant Intimations that
befme tlie end of that time the lTnitcd
States will inform Germany that mer
chant ships carrying arms for defense
only are considered In the same class
ns unarmed vessels, and that tlie right
of American citizens to ttarel upon
tin in cannot be questioned.
The cabinet is expected to review the
i-ituatloii Friday, and If It has arrived,
to consider the Geiman reply.
Dcmoi rutic lenders will endeavor tn
prevent discussion of til" question from
bieakllig out at the Capitol to-morrow.
Kf lircsentatlve Foster of Illinois liai pie
P'ired a resolution to anthoilze the Presi
dent to Issue a ptoelamatlon wirnlng
meiicaiis nsraitist boaniing armed ve
sels of belligerents, which It was said be
may offer fiom the floor. A similar
resolution, pesented bv Bepresentatlve
Mr I Minnie of Te.as, Is before the foreign
alt a Irs committee.
S'enator Gore lias announced Ids inten
tion of introducing a bill to-moirow
which is far more drastic than sug
gestions made in the House and would
pievctit Americans from proem lug pass
ports without making oath that they
would not travel on aimed bcllipcicnt ves
sels. I'epubllcan Leader Mann and Majotlty
leader Kltebln held an extended cou-
ferenco after the Hons adjourned to
night, but both insisted that thry rllrl
not discurs proposed legislation on the
aub.ieel.
A tense feeling pervaded ibe Capitol as
members began to arrive dining the morn
ing, anil on all sides there wer.i inquiries
for a definition or the President's .ffnet
position. Soon Iteprcsentatlve 1'Tuud was
being called on for an answer. Utttc
groups gathered in the. Hout-c lobby, talk
ing earnestly but apparently without any
definite plan for precipitating the excite
ment that followed later in the day.
Discussion continued and then Chair
man Flood, Mijorlty leader Kltehin and
Ikprcsentatlve tlnrrl?on of Mississippi
held a conference In the nialorlty lender's
office. Simultaneously came word 'hat
delegation of Missouri congressmen who
favored the l (solution had called on Sen-j
nlor Stone and Insisted tli.it a vote of
t lie two houses be taken on It The floor
buzzed with rumors of Impending out
break from the advocates of the resolu
tion. Tlepresentatlve MeLemorc. author
of the resolution now before tile com
mittee; chairman AVebb of the Judiciary
i ommlltee. and Representative llcflln of
Alabama were renters of groups seeking
Information. The cloak roonu fnlrly
hummed with conversation, while mcm
bes rushed on and off the. floor.
Uetnrn of thn Afissnurlans, Representa
tives lgoc, Decker and Fislcy, Uussoll and
Shackleford, fiom their call on Senator
Stone was tho signal for another stir.
"1 fear we are on the brink of war and
wo should avoid it If possible." Represen
tative Decker said. "No democrat is more
willing to uphold the hands of tho Presi
dent than I but I think this Is a step that
should bo taken without regard to his
views.
It then was an hour before adjourn
ment time. Administration leaders, fear
ing an attempt would be made to bring up
the subject on the floor, made every effort
to avoid It. After adjournment tho demo
ctats of the foreign affairs committee were
in session.
Chairman Flood was told that a strong
sentiment for the resolution existed In
the House and that It could not be ig.
nored. Tin stood steadfastly against re
porting the resolution. After a lengthy
argument It was decided that a canvass
of the House should be taken and thn
chairmen of the House and Sennto com
mlttecs, Representative Flood and Sena
tor Stone, should report that sentiment
to tho President to-morrow If possible
AMERICAN-BORN JAPS
LOYAL TO UNITED STATES
Declaration hy Jnpnm-xr American nt
Honolulu ArocscM HIhciinkIom.
Honolulu, T. 11., Feb. 23. Murh discus
sion has been aroused ill the Hawaiian
Islands 'by a declaration of Americanism
made yesterday nt the Washington birth
dnv reinitiation nt HUo by President Ala-
waka of the .lapaneso-Aincrlcan society.
Anierlcnn-born Japanese are striving
to get away fiom Japan," Arawaka said
"They have found they cannot serve two
masteis and they are loyal Americans.
Tbo Mikado misunderstands us hy think
lug u are Japanese Mijyjccts. We must
stick to American Ideals, even if wo
should have to tight our paients In case
of war."
ST JOIINSIH'ItY HANKIU'PT.
Rutland, Feb. 23.T-F.ilmond J. King ot
St. .lohusbiiiy, a restaurant propiictor,
to-day tiled a petition In bankruptcy.
Ills liabilities arc JTA'SlfiS and he has
assets of $),2o".13, with JI'hW claimed
exempt. There Is due secured creditors
$3,fi!W. Nearly all the 1') unsecured cred
itors live In St. Jolinsbury,
WILLAUD UKSUMKS TRAINING,
Chicago, Feb. 23 less Wlllald,
heavyweight champion, resumed train
ing to-dny for his bout with Frank
Moran on March 25 Ills exercises con
sisted of road work It was said he
would da no boxing until after his ar
rival at Now Yotk Willi) nl Is expect
ed to lcao for the. Jiast to-morrow
UlgllU
SIIPRFMARY OF m
nu ..Trn'nT.Tr
BT URIILUalAlta
MAY BE NECESSARY
Not Now Says Admiral Badger
but Eventually Wc Will Have
to Reach Out for Our Share of
the World's Trade.
HEARING III SECRET TO-DAY
Admiral Refuses to Discuss
Navy General Board's Views
of Threatening Danger with
Senate Committee Except Be
hind Closed Doors.
Washington. Feb. 2.1. Intel national con
siderations which moved the navv general
boatil to change Its tune bonotcd policy
last year and decline that the Tnlta!
States nay should equal the strongest
afloat by nut later than V.S. will be dis
closed tn the House military committee
to-morrow in executive session by Hear
Admiral Chat lea ,1. Badger, a member of
the board. Examination of Admiral Bad
ger in open session was concluded to
day, the admiral consistently refusing to
discuss except behind closed doors thn
board's views of dangers that may con
front the nation.
Admiral Badger expressed the opinion
that should the United States adopt a
two-power sinurtard navy, such as lecom
mended by the general board. Great Brit
ain would not niter her late of construc
tion, at least until the cap between the
two fleets had been materially reduced.
Karlk'r In his testimony lie had paid he
did not consider war with Great Britain
even a remote, possibility.
"Do you think we have the same rea
son for desiring supremacy of the sea
that Hngiand has?" liopiescntntlvc Call
away asked.
"Not at prcjent, perhaps," tlie admiral
leplicd, "but eventually wo would have
to reach out for our share of world traxle
and anybody wh. ; stood In the way of
our getting a fair deal would liavc tc bo
dealt with."
Ileprcsentatlve Britten asked if the. gen
eral board had not mudo a recommenda
tion in nil which Secretary Daniels had
refused to make public unless Its remarks
as to personnel In tlie navy were stricken
out. Admiral Badger said:
"I think much more had been made
of that incident than is juslitled." He
explained that tho board had made a
general recommendation as tn personnel,
amplified with statistical tables to show
Its effect. When an ex-officlo member of
tlie board later suggested that the se I c-
taiy was dlshfelined to publish the
statistical part of the recommendations
these inn neen strlcnen out. There wns
no suggestion, he added, of an attempt
by the secretary to foire the board to
alter lt statements.
While the naval committee was gather
ing information, both the. Senate and
House military committee were struggling
with details of the army part of the pre
paredness program. The Senate com
mittee virtually completed Its preliminary
review of the measuie u be draftel for
the regular army, agreement being reach
ed on its main feature.
i ne mil win provide for a peace
strength standing army of 173,(mo men
ns ugalnst 12."f') proposed by the House
bill under consideration. The war
strength will lo fixed at 23,000. A seven
year cnllstmeit, three with the colors
and four In tlie reserve, -Jill be expected
to provide the men to till up tho regl
nienls for war service. Vnder this plan
the soldier co,ild ho discharged Into the
reserve at the end of a year if found
efficient and can optionally go Into tin
iCKcrve at tlv end of two ars if he
desires.
Tho Senate bill follows closely
the
plan of ifit: devised by the army
college after an exhaustive study.
war
talis of orpinlzatlon suggested by
deiartmcnt this year, however, will
be
worked out in tho measure which Is In
reality a complete reorganization of the
land forces,
NO FREE WHEAT FROM
U. S. TO CANADA
Ottawa, Ont., Feb. 23. Proposals for
the free admission of wheat from the
United States Into Canada were killed
for another year in Parliament to-day
J. J. Turlff offered a resolution pro
posing t lint the Cnnndlan duty of p
cents a bushel on wheat be removed so
that under the countervailing clause of
the Underwood tariff law Canadian
wheat could have free admission to tho
American market whero it now faces
a tariff of ten cents.
The government declared against
the lesnlutlon on the ground that free
wheat had been defeated with reclproi'
Ity and becaiiso free ndmlsslon of wheat
to American markets would deprive
the Canadian railways of traffic, Thn
resolution defeated 77 to 11, only
one government follower voting In' the
afflimatHe.
BltATTLKIIORO'S DICLI NQl'KNTS.
Hiattleboro. Feb. 23. list where Brat
tleboro Is going to "get olf" mi the vot
ing problem Mii'i'h 7 seems problematical.
Tax Collector W. A. Shumwiiy says them
are 1".) nnines on his list of men who had
not paid their taxes Fob! nary 13, Of this
number lie knows of 07 who have left
town and he estimates tlmt them are
fiom f' to 'r,) w,, ""1 yi t "alurillzed
nnd thercfoie ate not quallflcd to voiu
even were "flr taxes paid within the
time limit "el 1,y iUo ''cchloii of the
iiii)iiney-i;cnoral-
This would leave about 2.V who, If the
boanl of dvll authority decides to follow
the ruling of tlio atlor.iey-Reneinl, wl
not ho pcnnitlod, to caat their hallux
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY
MIDDLEBURY.
Mrs. Charles Hooker left Saturday
morning for Schenectady, N. V , where sum
will spend a few da.s with her daughter,
after which sho will go to the Panama
canal for several months with her son,
who has a position there. -Atlhur Goodm
has returned from llutl.ind, wheie he has
been on a business ttlp.-Tho Hthnn Allen
Chapter, D. A. I'., of Mlddlebtir. Is plan-!
nlng a tea mid musical for Friday after
noon, at tho home of Mis. K. M. Saundcis,
Miss Alllia Buccl.'intlnll of tho Florence
Conservatory or Music, Italy, will sing.
The purpose of the tea is to Inetease the
funds for markers of the Revolutionary
boldlciH which the chapter contemplates
erecting In Mlddlebury. The public Is cor
dially Invited. A silver offeil'.i. wilt hi
ireeived. Mr. and Mis. Thomas Buckley
tiro both confined to the house with tho
grip. - The Woman's IMIsslonaty society of
tho Memorial Baptist chinch will meet
In the church p.nlois Wednesday evening
at ":.) o'clock -William L. duly is
confined to Ills home on Seymour street
with a complication of troubles. Miss
Itilth Wright. vhi has been 1! with pneu
monia in Burlington for four weeks, had
tecovcied stifllclently lo be brought to her
home here Saturday. Site was accom
panied by her mother. Mrs. ICtleu Wright,
ntnl Dr. P. L. Dorcy.-Miss Lula Woods
of Fair Haven Is visiting here. Mts. War
ten Itoss of Kiillnnd Is hero to visit her
daughter,
Miss Klennor Itoss dean of
women at tlie college. Samuel Guidon is
con alesceiit after a month's severe Illness
with pneumonia. Gem ge M. Burchard re
turned Satiirdio from New York. Miss
Genevice I'.liner of I'niiltnev is visiting
at the home of Mrs. Horace lChner.
Frank Blssett, who has been eontlned to
the bed for a week bv Illness, is able
tit sit mi fn,. !i ItHIo Mia I TnltfV Tllimns '
ind daughter. Miss Rena Dumas, have re
turned from 'ergennes. Professor Ray
mond McFaiiiinil gave an address at the
Methodist Church at Hast -Mlddlebury
Sunday morning. R. K. Harper has re
turned from Slioicham, where he has
spent a few days.
S. I!. Holihs and daughter have
gone to Gllcnbtirpr, .. ., to visit for
few das. Cassltis Bosley while at
work cutting ice on the liver stepped
on some loose eake.s Monday, slipped
ind was completely submerged In the
water. Fellow workmen went to hla
help and he. succeeded In getting out.
ni Mead and Mr. Condon of New" York
city are at the Addison for a fuw days.
Monday, market day, eggs brought
20 to 23 cents and butter 2.1 to ftn cents.
- -Mortimer Wilcox, telegraph operator
and bookkeeper at tho (i. II. Marshall
stnre, who has been confined to the
house, for two weeks by illness, has so
far recovered as to be able to resume
his duties again. The Young People's
society of tlie Memorial Baptist'Church
ire making arrangements to hold a
soriable in the parlors of the church
rlday evening, March 17. Tbo mer
cury registered 21 degrees below zero
In this village Monday morning. C. M.
Hanks of the firm of Hanks and Chilson
is confined to his home by Illness.
Carl Barton, who has been unite 111, Is
slowly recovering and is able to sit up I
for a little each day. Mis. William Duck-
eti and children hno gone to Bridport
for a few days hcl'nic thev move to Lak
Placid, where Mr. Imckctt has a position.
Prof. Kilwln I!. Holmes, snpci Intcndent
of the Sunday school of the Memorial
Baptist Church, entertained his class of
boys in tlie chuich parlors Tuesday eve
ning. A fine supper was served, after
which there were games and other amuse
ments. The D. A. R. tea and musical
which was to have been held at the home
of .Mrs. Saunders Friday afternoon has
been pustponed until a later date. Teter
Lacke has returned from Ausable links,
N. Y., where lie has been for four months
and expects to remain in Mlddlebury dur
ing the coming summer. Mrs. B. S. Nich
ols Is eontlned to her home with a severe
ittnck of tho grip. Mr. and Mrs. Gordon
Wllklns and Miss Julia Wllkius have re
turned to Plattshurgli. N. Y after a
week's stny with friends In this vicinity
i.Miss Genovleve Klmcr, who luis been here
to visit her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Horace
Klmcr, has returned to Poultncy, wheie
she is a teacher In the Tiov Conference
Academy, The cutting of Ice on Otter
creek here was completed for the reason
Tuesday. Four concents have been en
gaged In getting In largo quantities of Ice,
Miss I'loienee Gates and Miss Helen
Gates of Albany. N Y., arc here to visit
relatives. .Miss Nellie Mulcahy has re
turned to Sudbury after a visit at tlie
homo of her brother, M .1, Miilcab -
trs. Bridget Woostcr, who has been suf-
fctlng with grip for three weeks, has
nearly recovered, but Is now allllcted with
varicose veins. Her daughter, Mrs. lCil
ward Crannelly, Is also confined to the
house with the grip. William P. Russell
Post, No. SO. G, A. It., and William P.
Russell Circle, No. 5, Ladles of the G. A.
11., held exorcises Tuesday evening In ob
servance of IJncoln's nnd Washington's
bltthdays. A program was carried out and
refreshments were served. The benefit
dance given by Mrs. Noble In the Masonic
teniplo Tuesday evening for the !Mayfnlr
war relief was well attended and n good
sum was realized. Thn Parent-Teacher
association will hold a meeting In the
high school building on tho first Friday
afternoon In March. Miss Minnie Mc
Donald, who has been confined by Illness
for two weeks, Is slowly recovcting. Mrs.
Louis K, Woods of WarreiiBburg, N Y ,
lias arrived in town, called by tlie Illness
ot her mother, .Mrs. II, D. Archer.
Tho annual meeting and banquet of
thn congregational Church will bo held
this evening. Supper will be served at
fi;;',o o'clock, followed by reports, ad
dresses, and songs. The meeting of
the Missionary society of the .Memorial
Church which was to have been held
in tlie church parlors Wednesday eve
ning was postponed on account of the
severe snowstorm until Wednesday
evening. Match L Miss Faith Llusley.
li
teacher In the Proctor nigii senooi,
who has been visiting ner parents in
town for two weeks, has returned to
her school duties, having been at home
two weeks on account of sickness In
tlie Hcliool. Wllllnin L. Cady
who has
been 111 for two weeks, Is slowly re
eovnelnir It. S. Benedict uud son, liny
in I, have Icttlliied
Falls, N, Y where they
from Hudson
have been for
Willis N Cady
a row days on hubioi bc.
has returned from
Burlington, whero
he hn been f" trio.
UuBlnoaa, -Trumun 1.
post fuw days on
,. Kclla liaa rceav-
COUNl
ered from a haul attack of the grip,
Irr. Kidls nnd eight ot his children were
nil confined with the disease nt the
same time. The children have also re
covered. Four Inches more of snow
fell Tuesday night and Wednesday
forenoon and there hi plenty now on
the country inids to make good sleigh
ing when It gets packed down. llcnrv
Castle nnd Miss Carrie Castle of Rut
land arc. visiting In town. The warn
ing; for the annual Mnich meeting was
posted Wednesday. In addition to the
rrtlc'cs coveting tlie vote of the pro
posed prohibition law and the proposed
primary law there arc the following
unusual article';: To see If the town
will ote lo exempt from taxation for
li term of five venrs the plant of tlie
Bryant Manufacturing company nt Last
Mlddlubtlrv; to see if tlie town will au
thorize, the selectmen to build an Iron
bridge over Muddy branch near the
Fuller Pierce place; to see what action
the town will take concerning the n
unest of the late Joseph Battcll In ref
i renee to lands given the town for
parks; to see what action the town will
take In reference to money bequeath
ed the town by the late Joseph Bat
tel) In lieu of taxes on the Battcll
block, to sic if the town will vote, to
Install a uniform system of account
ing; and to see if the town will vote
to assess a single tax on the rateable
polls of the town. Fdgar llllnti leaves
to-day for various places in New York
State nnd will tie away about a month.
Mrs. IMItb Robertson and daughter
have returned from a several days'
visit In Burlington. Samuel Jiamon
died very suddenly Wednesday at his
home In lliploit with heart disease. His
wife went to the door of their home to
(all aid nnd before she could get help
he had died. He was 01 years of age
and Is survived In- a wire and one son.
Guy Damon of Groton. Mass. The fu
neral .irnngcnieiits have not been
made. Mr. Damon was a Ufe-lonc resi
dent of that town and held various
town offices.
VERGENNES.
Mis. Nettle B. (Preston) Taft, wife of
William II. Taft of Wiiltham, died Feb
ruary Mat the Mary Fletcher hospi
tal, Burlington. Her death was caused
by injuries received here February 11
when she. was thiown out of a wagon, the
result of a collision with a rninw.iv team
belonging to Henry Hallock of Wiiltham.
Iler skull was ciacked and she ncvor
fully legalned conscioiisncos. 'Mrs. Tift
was the daughter of the late James and
Helen (Hunter) Preston of Walth.im,
where she was burn February b), l'B, and
where most of her lite ban been spent.
She -was married tn 'Mr. Taft in PUtts
biirgb, N. Y., in lc?i. She w.is a mem
ber of St. Paul's Church, Vcrgi lines. She
wan n devoted wife and mother. Besides
a husband, she Is survived by three sons,
Wllman 11. Taft of Savannah, On., Attor
ney Mllward C. Taft of Bristol, and Ray
H, Taft of Philadelphia, one brother,
Henry C. Preston of FcriirfJtirg; four sis
ters, Mrs. W. J. Thompson nnd Mrs. Marv
Goodalo of Vergennes, .Mrs. Frank Yale
of Troy, N. Y., and Mrs. ICUen Meuller ot
Portland, Ore. The liody was brought
here from Burlington Thursday morning
and taken to the home of her sister, Mrs.
W. J. Thompson. Thcie was a pra
1 .ervice at tlie house Saturday morning and
I .i,n funeral service was held at l'J'30 at
St. Paul's Church. The remains were
taken to Bristol and burial made in Green
wood ccnictery.-Lllen May. tho two-ycar-old
daughter of Mr. ami Mrs. Charles
Dugan, died Wednesday Feb. K. from
pneumonia following an illness with grip.
Tbo funeral was held Flidiiy afternoon at
the house.
Hurlon Prosper Klltharp, a veteran of
tho Civil War, died Friday evening at
his home on Water street from the effects
of a shock surfeml a few days ago,
aged 73 year.". Ho was born In Bridport
November li, 15i0, and was a descendant
of Nathaniel Ulltharp, an early settler
of that town who located on tho J. I).
Brooks farm In 173.'. August 23. IS'"-, he
enllst-d in Company D. 11th Vermont
Volunteers, and was mustered into serv
ice with his regiment at Brattlelioro
October 21, 1S02. He was honorably dis
charged July 30, lxffl, and returned to
Bridport and resumed his occupation as
farmer. Mr. Llltharp was married to
i-nille A Fainiim. daughter of th" lam
George and Amelia Faruniii of Shoi' ham
After several years h" moved to xow
Haven, where lie remained four ycais.
when he moved to Vergennes. He was a
member ot Ltban Allen Post. G. A. It..
of Vergennes. lie loaves a daughter, Miss
Mlnnl Blithnrp of this place, two sons.
Hdson nf Wntcrtown, N. Y.. and Robert
of Ferrlsburg; and one brother, Almon
Hlltharp of Lime Springs, In. The funeral
was held at tho houso Monday afternoon
nt one o'clock. A. W, Norton and .1. A.
Harrington have been appointed com
missioners and appraisers of the estate
of AVIlllnm A. Shcrill .
.Mrs. Helen C. (Jenkins), wife of Arthur
W. Hawkins, died Sunday evening at her
homo here after a week's Illness with
typhoid pneumonia, aged D2 years. She
wns th daughter of the late Rev. Dr.
Horace and JUnervn (Jones) of Shaoshing,
China, and was born In Wlngpo, China,
September 3, HS3. Her father was a mis
sionary of the Baptist Church in China
for IS years and at the time of his death
was the leading missionary of his de
nomination In that country During his
residence in China be translated all of tlie
New Testament and part of the old into
the Chinese language. Mts. Hawkins
came to tills country while quite young
and received her education at a Indies'
seminary In Hamilton. N. Y., of which
she wns n graduate. She attended the
Boston Conservatory of Music, after
whlrh for several years she was a teacher
In the department of art nnd music nt
Troy Confeiepce Academy nt Poultncy.
She was a member of the Vergennes Bap
tlst Church and n'.so a member of t lie
Missionary and Ladies' Aid society of that
church. Sho was of a quiet natutc, a
sweet disposition and a devoted wife and
mother. She was married to Arthur V.',
Hnwklus December 25. ISO.'. Besides a
husband, sho leaves three sons, Kverett
Arthur, Stnnley Daniels nnd Homer Wil
liam Hawkins of Vergennes, one daugh
ter, Alice Ltlllnn Hawkins of Vergennes,
i two brothers, Kverett nnd Charles Jenkins
of Lincoln, Xeb., mid one sister. Mis,
George A. Learn of Kodlak Alaska. Tim
funeral was held Wednesday nt I0.3D
n. m at tlie
Judge ami
l)r, and Mrs,
Itaptist Chinch
Mrs, Frank L. Fish and
Charles II Colo gave a
(toutiuiird vu I'ubc two,)
AND'S PEACE
TERMS DEFINED BY
Will Never Sheathe the Sword
until Belgium and Serbia Re
cover in Full Measure All and
More Than They Have Lost.
REPLIES TO SOCIALIST
Latter Contends That Prolonga
tion of War Is Only Justified
by Reasonable Expectation
That Allies May Eventually
Dictate Peace Terms.
London, Feb. 23. Premier Asquith found
himself unexpectedly fa to to f.itc in
the Houso or Commons, to-day with a
new demand for the Rovrrnmcnt's views
on peace. He took lip the gauntlet almost
eagerly and In a bristling IHteeii-nilniile
speech made It dear that tho British
government's determination to i.ariy thn
war to the end without rnmpromlEn Iwd
not abated a Jot or tittle since the en.rl
days of the struggle.
The only terms of peace Premier
Asquith offered to the . ncniv countriei
were contained In the historic announce
ment which was the outstanding ftvituri
of ills speech at tho London guildhall in
November, UIH, which he repeated
The prime minister's stern declaration
created a deep impression on all parti
of tho house, and this found reflection
subsequently In the lobbies. The oc 'aslon
for tlie premlci's prono'incuim nt was a
speech which Philip Snnwdcn, if the
independent labor party. Injected into th
debate on the rnnsolldaUd fund bill, a
routine measure providing appropriation.-)
mainly for interest on th" national debt.
Mr. Snow den contended that prolonga
tion or the war roilld only be justified by
the reasonable expectation thnt through
its continuance the allies should be. Ill a
position to dictate, such terms as to se
cure future Huropean p!nce. He agreed
thnt tho present military situation wai
not necessarily evidence thnt a declslvo
military victory might not yet come to
tho allies, though few men who took nil
Intelligent nnd dispassionate view of thn
situation and the lesson It had taught
would say that there was any reasonable
ground for hope of a decisive and cmsh
Inf military victory for cither contending
party.
If Great Britain was determined to con
tinue In the expectation oT crushing Ger
many, he declared, her people ought to
be. convinced that It was the best method
for establishing the International rela
tions of the Lutopcan powers. lie, hnw-
lever
helleved tint a continued attempt
to crush Germany would bo the worn
basis for tho establishment of ,i Just and
lasting settlement.
The speaker declared that all the na
tions, and especially Germany, were
driven to accept this war as evidence
of the futility of militarism, and the
time was therefore ripe for making,
movement In the direction of peace. In
particular, Mr. Snowden maintained that
tho German socialists were solidly in
favor of peace, now that it had beu.i
proved that Germany was invulnerable
fiom external attack.
Tlio premier welcomed Mr. Snowden's
admission that he country was at ono
and would remain of one mind In de
manding that the conditions of peace
should be such as to secure the perma
nent attainment of the. national aim
"There is absolute unity in the coun
trv." he continued.
'the premier declared that Mr Snow
den's statement on the military situation
was a matter of opinion.
"It Is not mine,'' was bis comment
The real gist of Mr Snowden's speech,
added the premier, was the contention
that a genuine desire for peace existed
in Germany. As evldemo of this ther
wns the report of the debate m the
Reichstag nnd tho chancellor's speech, In
which he said ho would welcome ap
proaches from any quarter, but did not
say he wns prepared to make approaches
himself.
The premier referred In biting terms t
the chancellor's statement that Gormatp
was not the enemy of small nations, and
characterized the statement as "colos
sal and shameless audaclt" after lur
treatment ot Belgium ami Serbia
Mr Asquith concluded as follows, hit
words evoking applause from every coi
ner of the House:
"1 have stated In clear, dlrci t, ex
plicit and emphatic language what av
the terms upon which we In this coun
try are prepared to make peace 1 wi I
icpcat them. They are familiar to oi c
allies and well known to tne Gcimi i
chancellor.
"What I said November 0. 1511, I ic
pcat now. 'We shall never sheathe tin
sword which we have not lightly drawn
until ilcUliim and. 1 will add, Serbia
recover in full measuie all nnd nion
than they have sacrificed; until Franci
Is adequately secured against aggres
sion; until tho lights of the small na
tions of Kuiopo am based upon an
assailable foundation, and until
military domination of Prussia
UP'
tin
it
wholly and finally dcstioycd.'
"What Is there wanting in cleiirneM
and dlieetness ill that'.' I ask Air.
Trevelyiiii and the German chancellor
how I can make It fuller and more In
telllglblc'.' How can I du more to con
vlnce him and all our enemies that not
until a pence based upon these founda
tions Is within sight of attainment, and
not until then, shall we or any of our
allies abate by one jot our prosecution
of this war?"
Don't merely "spare" a little time tot
looking over tho ads, Allot ample tltn
for it--for this should bo a part of youf
work as the "builness manascr" 01 youf
PREMIER ASQUITH
