THE HERALD.
Devoted to the Upbuilding of the West Side of the River. "A very live and creditable weekly newspaper."-MANUFACTURERS' RECORD.
011.- - - NEW OR.LEANS LOUISIANA, TrHURSDAY, FEIBRUARYV 24, 1916.
-,OL , XX ,III. "
GREATEST STORE SOUTH
Men's Suits and Overcoats
Half Price
This is thle ' Ial that so many hal e waited for
ld it's worth the \aitinh when two Suits or Over
gtscan be had ,or the price of one! It's a rare op
pii ity, and the ,4it rin i s are all particularly desira
iasto styles. nmatciials and truly line worikmanship.
A Bargain for Boys
loys' Tudor Rompers Always 290
Sold at 50c, To-morrow L2b
We purchased ninciet-odd dozen fast color Cham
ny Rompers, in plain and ',tripes; this make is too
all known to need comment as to workmanship; sizes
2 o 6 years.
p SONALS i
IND OTHERWISE
'rrage of Miss Lillian J
J Mr. Allen J. Harris will be
ga Wednesday afternoon.
'.l, at 2 o'clock, at Grace
Miss Sprich is one of the
lh the Belleville Kinders ar
a a host of friends here who
I)mmh good luck. As no invi
Sben Issued, friends anti
I-m itvited through this we
, of Meridian. Miss..
ir days here this week.
mii Engineers' Beneficial
. o. 98 will give its an
ils Friday evening. March
mantuion steamer Sidney.
k chairman of the conr
4t th following members:~
Ig la, Chss. N. Vosburgh.
.1110, Harry Tompson. in. I
SW. Reaney.
. I. . A. Cordonta have re- t
town to reside. after
i Los Angeles for sev
J. A. Lautenschlaeger 5
aIagement of their J
Louise, to Mr. Frank t
wedding to take place
Miss Adriel Len- J
lade Anderson were
pasts of Mrs. H. J. c
;.ta Springs. a
ied s of Miss Margue- Y
be glad to know that n
passed the ('ivil ii
and has received
is the Department of s
lsangton. D.. C.
aad Halcyon Rhode::. 1'
Dot Babin were the
of Misses Daisy and
their home at Sea
 lrternoon Five lHun- n
Us week at the home
- '. The successful
es A. Graf. G.
 Obehel. The conso- n
lt of Miss Flo Pe- o
 I Mrs. Ed McNair. al
rtertained on Tues
Mrs. R. E. Whit- is
o, f Moss Point. el
SIval· guest of her
M1. H. A. Wohler,
R
Miss Rose Moaen P
Tompson are 24
Sy St. Louis.
Sher son. Rich- M
luaghter were .I
ld Sunday.
Is being w
baen thoroughly T;
since the
green which
"MAN WHO SHAVES
we offer a particularly fine choice, of
., the best soaps, powders, creams, toi
let waters, etc. Their use means shar
ing comfort without skin irritation
and positively without injury to the
most tender skin. You'll find your
favorite here if it is high class.
CENTRAL DRUG STORE
FRiANK M. CALLAGHAN, Prop.
Pelican Avenue and Olivier Street
Spredominated heretofore, both inside
and out. a (ream color is being used
Sand the structure promises to look
I much improved in its new dress.
Ij ave Walsh, of Morgan ('it . spent
a few days here. the guest of his
sister. Mrs. Toni Rooney.
Mrs. hugh Cogan, of Hellevilie
J. street, who was operated on at tile
be Touro Infirmary, is doing nicely.
in. Mrs. L. M. Roberts and Mrs. G. \W.
ce McNair. of ('larksdale. Miss.. are vis
he iting Mrs. E. Patterson.
Mr- rs. Shade (. Smith returned Tues
io day night from l)onaldsonville. La..
vi- and left yesterday morning for \\'il
lI son. La.. on W\oodmen Circle business.
e- Miss Alma Quinn. who was so sezi
ously burnt several months ago, is
s.. home from the hospital. much ima
proved.
al Mrs. Horace Nelson. of Raceland,
n- spent a few days with her mother,
It Mrs. L. Tufts. of Belleville street.
y. Miss Stella Joeckel. of Verret street.
u- has as her guest Miss Amy Lange. o:
St. Louis, Mo.
h. Mr. and Mrs. Daniels. who have
i. been the guests of ('apt. and Mrs.
('lasen for a few months. have again
e- resumed housekeeping here.
'r The infant daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
v- A. Tufts was baptized at the Mt. Oli
vet Episcopal Church Sunday. The '
.r sponsors were Irvin Tufts and Mrs.
ir Jos. Coburn. The little one received
k the name Margaret Bell.
c Mrs. Louisa Braun and-daughter and C
son were visitors to Mr. and Mr.;.
" John Duffy.
e . Albion Daniels. who has been
F. connected with the Algiers Railway
and Lighting Company for many
- years, has resigned his position and is
t now with the New York Manufactur
I ding Company.
I Mrs. harry Fallon. of Vallette
f street. is .ill at her home.
Mrs. Frank Duffy. who has been ill
for a wreek, is much better.
I REGISTRATION OFFICE OPEN.
\\'hat are known as the long hours
was resumed by the registration of
fice Friday, ~ hich means that the of- 1
fice will be open from S o'clock in the 1
morning until 2 o'clock in the after- i
noon, when it will close until is
o'clock, at which hour it will reopen it
and remain open until 7 o'clock.
The office will remain open for reg- It
istration one month, closing on Marchil
18. one month preceding the general 8,
election, as the law requires. ri
LIST OF UNCLAIMED LETTERS p
Remaining at Station A. New Orleans v
I Postoffice, for the week ending Feb. t'
24, 1916: T
Ladies--Branch, Mrs. Louisa; Cook. K
Miss Bessie: Davis, Sarce: Harges,
Mrs.: Mirqual, Louls. Mrs.. si
Gentlemen-Dimonds, Jack; Hata- ai
way, Irwin L.: Jorgensen, H.; Jahn, d.
Tahrod; Skinner, Henry. P
JOSEPH VQ)EGTLE, Postmaster. a:
JOS. W. DANIELS, Supt. tb
at
FREE FERRIAGE FOR SCHOOL
CHILDREN HAS BEEN LAW SINCE 1914
PART OF LEGISLATIVE ACT SINCE 1914. LAW MAKES SPECIAL
MENTION OF NEW ORLEANS SCHOOL CHILDREN
STILL PAYING FARE.
In a letter" ;,idlre"., i-,, to, ITh, lirahil. Mr. l'rank Itll.,tini , ,\ ho, s ;L l
wais takten a hic initer.l it in t'hootl< at l s(rlhil! , hihr t allr s (a .. att.lrtioil toIll
a retcent law Iras<i d illn 1911. h iii- h I i~ .' r -, f,. " .rriata f Ir all o-,t I -Ililtlr n.I
in the State . f I.luti-jana. atll tils lat auit .~, iallt ii ,i tiror ill l- ,It - iy t,
New O(rlearns
To tilh Editor ol T li'r- rhralil
M1 liiar Sir \Vith :i tde i-r at all a tilme, to pt-onott the ii , .lf;iar. , anti it:
ti-retst of chlilrlrtii h llo l t rl tilt IIhlillici schoolt s. tiil that a11 llliili,,I nllrir li
Liven an o(llortuniti oil r ai lvani,,cni int in the l lrar,-rt in ed laationllli ll,lt
telrs. all all ai lvantaiile.t that (tan lt. .lt" urIl for thi- erril tload-m rni l-r tl -
l'tst edl r'ihit 1 ; ll ý(otd t /.i tiwnl hlI I dIu'sire to i nrill_ !ltftlr, " oni fillr thil Iutli
lic telfare that thle la s of ithe State i, ,iv i oar pnl li to.ol childrien ttih
richt of free ftirriath, ;n) all t'ifrrite- whi, ;illt.iiliii li. Inlii lii, s!li l.-.
Se ion iii l lt til I'u lit School Ila\' tof Louiisiiana rald. as filhl .s
Section 10. The free right of passage or conveyance over all
public ferries, bridges and roads which are rented out by the State.
parish, or municipality, or over which the State or parish, or munici
pality, exercises any control, or for which license is paid or toll ex
acted, be and is hereby granted to all children atatending the public
schools; and no tolls or fees shall be demandeo or exacted from said
children by the keepers or attendants of said ferries, bridges or
roads in their passage to and from school between the hours of 7
o'clock a. m. and 9 o'clock a. m. and 4 o':lock p. m. and 6 o'clock p.
m.; provided, that on Sundays and holidays no children shall have
the right to cross said such ferries, bridges, or roads, on terms differ
ent from those of any ordinary passenger. The provision of the fore
going section SHALL APPLY TO THE PARISH OF ORLEANS as
well as other parts of the State.
T'lhi- law is 11,w in forcet i I o ltil kn tii\o if tihetre i< ;illy l-ialtt at- I
ta hllite to tiese la lt-. ,Iult tll. ct'onditionlt.-- arn I it,ns Itr fret- ft-rriaa: , fl~r -I hlii Il
childreni
,'slit( ttfully.
FRI.NK HENNING tNN(;
A BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
One of the largest and Ihappie.t
crowds of the season turned out on
the occasion of the first moonlight ex
cursion given by S. .1. S. ('., which
took place last Saturday evening on:
the steamer Sidney. Over four hun
dred people from Algiers attended.
i- and the happy throng was augmented
is by large numbers from the other side.
The only thin-; that Imight bIe said
against the affair was that S. .1. S. C.'s
friends were so many that the dan
ring floor of the steamer Sidney was
taxed to its utmost, and at times the
Spairs dancing were more in number
than was just right to get the most
pleasure out of the dance. However.
this slight disadvantage did not ini
any way detract front the gayety and
festivity of the evening, as S. J.. S. C.'s
membership was out in force and c·ar
ried with them the spirit of S. J. S. ('..
so that everybody was bound to have
a good time. The only thing that was
absolutely provoking, and which
caused a storm of protest, was the
fact that the boat had stopped and 12
o'clock had been reached long before
any of the jolly, happy crowd had real
ized it was anyway near that hour.
The affair netted the club a very
lhandsome suni. hhich will be used
to further embellish the already hand- f
some clubroons. The commilttee that t
ha-i the affair in charge were: IE.
Dosher. president and ex-officio; F. P.
Diietrich. P. J. Lauman, C(. A. Suther
land, S. .1. Eross. Jos. Hlughes. I. I. r.
French. P. 11angiaracina, Thos. it. d
Reagan and .1. Hodenger. a
PARKER MEETING.
The John M. Parker Independent
I)emocratic ('lub of the Fifteenth
Ward held a meeting on the 16th inst.
in itenecky's Hall to complete organ
ization. Eighty-six persons crowded
into the hall, while large numbers
stood in the corridor anti on the gal
leries. 'Upon final organization the (
list of officers Is as follows: i,. Mun- 8
sterman. president: S. A. Eross. sec- t"
rctary: A. Sartis. E. llinchey. A. B. p
Sinclair, J. Gonzales. H. L. Gregory, o
W. M. Mahoney and Elmer Davison. s
vice-presidents; L. R. Pettigrove, s
treasurer: Jack Hill, grand marshal. p
The meeting was addressed by J. I. e
King, James Leonard. L. Munsterman, Ii
C. Bosch and Mike Pagan, and the l1
speeches were roundly and enthusi- w
astically applauded. Resolutions en- c
dorsing the candidacies of John M.
Parker and his running mates were ti
adopted. Permanent headquarters for y
the ward club have been established ft
at 541 Patterson street. with John
Pendos, of the Fifth Precinct, in re
charge. IN
SECT. sc
al
TIMBALIER LIGHT KEEPER. a;
Mr. Harvey Holdeman, who former- I.
ly resided in Patterson street, has L
just received his appointment from I N
the Government as lighthouse keeper D
at Timballer Light on the Louisiana la
coast. Mr. Holdeman wis in Algiers G
Tuesday and left yesterday for his G
new duty. Timballer Light is located H
about sixty-three miles from Lock- J.
port. C
STAMPEDE
Monday mnornin, during the heavy
fog. the patrons of the ('anal street
Ferry Company experienced and wit
nessed a sight that thiey would not
I care to undergo again. The trouble
'was (aused by the intense fog, which
-pread its mantle over the mighty
Mississippi. As usual on mornings:
like this. for safety, only one boat wa::
running, and there was an elapse of
three-quarters of an hour between
boats. Not a boat between the hours
of 7:15 and s a. m. ('onsequently. this
being the rush hour. there was quite
a large number of passengers on the
boat coming to the Algiers side of the
river as well as a very large number
on this side waiting for the boat. The
passengers crowded the pontoon and
gangway to such an extent that when
the passengers arrived on the boat.
which was also crowded to its capac
ity, there was almost no room for the
exchange of passengers. Much excite
ment ensued when one end of the t
pontoon started to go down very per- p
ceptibly. Children and women start
ed to scream and run up the gang
plank, and it was due only to the ef- t
forts of those with cooler heads p
that serious accident was avoided. \n e
incident of this kind should be a good ,
lesson to the ferry company. so that p
it might avoid a similar occurrence by
not allowing the passengers to go n
down on the pontoon when the boats .
are delayed such a length of time by e
fog. It would make very little differ- c
ence in time by holding the people un
in the ferry house until the inicomin,
boat has discharged it Ipass(engers
Let its ha' e safety first. S
"SWEET SIXTEEN."
t4
The home of Mr. and Mrs. .. F.
Cayard was beautifully decorated on
Saturday last. in honor of their daugh
ter, Hazel. who was agreeably sur
prised by a number of her friends, the t
occasion being the sixteenth anniver
sary of her birthday. She was pre
sented with a beautiful "wishbone
pin" from her many friends, the pres
entation being made by George Thorn- F
ing. who was engaged several days in
learning his little part. Refreshments
were served in abundance and dan
cing was enjoyed until a late hour.
"Home. Sweet Home." was played and _
the guests departed, wishing the
young hostess many returns of the
future.
Those present were: Misses G. Si
rey. C. and M. Hildebrand. M. Collins.
.M. Comeaux, A. Reynolds. M. Morri
son, M. Leyrer. B. Senner, N. Herbert.
J. Hofstetter, G. Robichaux, Herbert
and Hollis Malain, G. Shirk, N. Rich
ards, J. Weiggman, A. Gerrets, G.
Schroder, V. Amuedo. M. Sutherland, .
I. Clements, H. and M. Cayard. Annie .
Louise McNeely and Ermine Hopper;
Messrs. J. Charbonnet, R. Richards, S.
Diket, R. Amuedo, E. Ford. W. Nich
laus, A. Olroyd, C. Brown, S. Neiling.
G. Thorning, J. Dubois, C. Jordon, J.
Glapcy, M. Robichaux, C. Hatfield, E.
Hebert, F. Cayard, E. and R. Cayard,
J. Ordilanda, and Mr. and Mrs. A. F.
Cayard.
We not only reflect the
wants of customers-w e
anticipate them !
-L Elite Hams
20c
The Pound
Dove Hams
21c
The Pound
Elite Breakfast
Bacon
25c
The Pound
A. M & J. Solari, Ltd,
211 Royal St. 3401 ST. Charles
NAVAL STATION NOTES.
Ic I \ 'c li.. and :he
l nitt.d `tatn s l'ubli Ii . tltt ,.rt ic.
ta.: Nepttne are in (lock tIlnderg2ingt
repair>. '!ie-e, vt-s,.l , will .,, in
(1o( k laboit telt la. s lot(ih r.
'it armiy dreide, N. t Orleans. i,\
on lut' at tle a--ses. \aill ,e the
lt'next t isel to dlock. Sihe t ill he i"
(lock about tirti -ive day. to nlltr-ou
t- r-'p.ir. inlhlicl ing the i:nstallation of, a
lI new driedl. arim.
(;untier Arthur Houliettt. 1 . SN.. on
d(itlli in the ilndustrial departmentt of
the Natal Station. has teel (tdeinat
el a- niaval ofti.er for the port of
- New ()rleanas. retlie ing Lieutenant
('otntiatndt-r I'otterlieli. .Mr. lotluitt's
duties includde the sealing of the radio
outttit. on all vessels flyin thle fla oft
one of tlle bellierent nations. This
is done a. part of the enforcementlt of
t 'rPresident Wilson's neutrality piroci.la
t- nation.
t ivil Engineer Pt'aulI and Chief (in.n
nor Brean are busy these day. arrang
Sing tihe details of the outfit for thli
h radio station at Point Isabel. Texas.
v This is luiite i ji,'a w\h' n. aluon with
s the radio outfit. the housing and mess
ing for the radio t rew have to be pro
vided for.
n The holiday on Washiniiton's birth
s day "as taken advatitage of by a co )l
numlber of the yard employes. Inane
e of whotm left for their holime. Satur
e day niht and did not return until
. Wedtlnesday morine.
r
BEFORE AND AFTER.
The lerald ha, just completed ar
rangemlenti. with the New York HIer
ald for the exclusive use of their car
toon ser\ice with reference to those
exceedingly comic cartoons entitled
"Before and After."
These cartoolns have been one of
the leading feat ires of the New York
Evening Telera;ill. Theyt are consid
ered the funniest todoay pitblisheti atid
comnlpare in quality itl the very best
puiblications of thiis kind.
\\'e Iwetin the puleli-ation of this
new featlure with this i-sue. If you
want to have a genuitie gooil 1a11ni+
every Thlursela alornin- be tiure to
consult outr "Refre and .\fter.
SEVENTH PRECINCT ORGANIZES.
The Seventh I'rtecinct o ,f lithe Fif
teenth \Ward \as oruatizedtl by tile
I'arker fore o into all Indelendentt
I)enloiratic ('lu Tuesday niouht. The
meeting was called for a hall rentil
in ada\ncet. ,ut when tilhe crowd ar
rived they found for somie realon the
hall was refused them. Thie meeting
then was held in the open air. Pifty
eight men were present. The pro
cinct officers chosen follow: H1. L.
Gregory, captain: E. Wattigny, Jr.,
secretary; Alex Milan. vice-captain:
Frank Huguet. treasurer: P. S. Hlar
vey. marshal. Speeches were made
by T. I. O'Connor. i. J.. Lewis. E.
Hlnchey, S. A. Eross. N. ('ovell.
Who VeTour ere is S·iL Phoe
DR. V. Li ROCCHI
Nemleek 174
NMSPITAL 51 TO@ULLsRUST.
MR. YOUNG MARRIED MAN:
ISUIIIUEI'S 1111 All IEIEVOLEIT
ASUSIATI3I
A say mebr o ars
w. 0. Allsay, 3m. Soc..
as lbla Areum. A513el35.
Correct Style-Value is
In Holmes Hats
I ( i ,11 1 i 1 11 i 4It , 1 . ' ,;l . I T :" t, ' ' t ,
t -i ,l tl ~ - I I . \ ' ,
\\ i iiI ti i t I !11/ t' ,,t lit lOl 0 IA t i illii O t't t,'t, , i. r
"tr !l ,l t t I , - ,l -
1
D.H. Holmes Co.
SP .ri.. Nw Yrka.. LIMITED Ertabl.
SBerlir, London and Florence. Api . 142.
A Genuine Inner-Player Piano
is Yours for $485
llt t"r i, a 'In.' :ial t'l-dliay t,,T r on thi , t -t ' i -"1:1413 ) ltl , T.1;.\I,,I.Itlay r
'ian1 1 that 1, Illilt ' Jttth ollu t, \ ill 't r lll ,Iilt ' t 11- t, Im dle fio ' i lliia ,
and i,]a),"', ila t w eilllotlllute fr' ili tilt faci 1i'to ..
I a- , i ri t " pric l, 1 a l i t -. tI w ill I.. 7 a l'' ',t, - i \tti li
Iti i t"I ii' in Ili l at' t n t" m iav I 1' I:I t l ir11
ti Iui it, ; ha inla d t In i I r btni i lll a t'alt 14 I lit ii h.
l rL -CANAL
Successors to Cable Piano Co. STREET
CELEBRATE
Approaching Carnival
BY
Using Electricity
ALGIERS RAILWAY & LIGHTING CO,
222 ELMIRA AVENUE
PnHNE ALGIERS 151 SALESMAN WILL CALL
FOR SA LE---mValauable Algiers
PIn I'tdtliti\'t l ulll frtii e a i tt at ti c ta.e nn t o Ilot', of rliiunll.
N\tim ri t 272 anril "2 Vul Sti, ret. Alt i I' . 'I ontainiLn a'i.hlit
for 'tia ur ont i I t llh t ntt' it a Itad ittdal 'i'k
For information call at 301 Elmira Avenue
Facts to
Consider
When you tbuy drugs you should always
consider first, the reputation of the Drug
Store with which you are going to do business
in the future.
The public is our Judge that we have al
ways maintained the highest quality of goods
to be bought in the market.
You will always get the BESTI at our store.
"1UPi Drugs
Bermudn , EaV Verrett.s
