... .T Society
'Ctato motoric
aney County
EPUBLICAN
Vol. 21. No. 15
FOUSYTII, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1910.
Four Pages.
T
Washington Letter
(Kroin Our UemiliirConvsponilfiit.
Garrison's resignation: The
sudden resignation of Mr. Garrison as
Secretary of War and of Mr. Breckin
ridge as Assistant Secretary have filled
the Democrats with dismay, for the
shrewder among: them recognize this
as "the beginning of the end" of the
Wilson Administration. Of all the men
in President Wilson's Cabinet, Mr.
Garrison was the only one who had at
tracted popular approval as a forceful,
fearless, upright man, and all familiar
with the facts realize the truth of Col
onel Harvey's statatement that "Gar
rison resigned because he refused to
continue as clerk under Woodrow Wil
son," an explanation which, coming
from the original Woodrow Wilson
man, and even now his friend, is po
tent for political injury. On almost
every important problem of the Wilson
Administration Secretary Garrison has
stated his position fearlessly and un
equivocally and in almost every in
stance his views have been bitterly
opposed by McAdoo olten by Bryan
and Daniels and finally rejected by
Mr. Wilson. This has been peculiarly
true of ihi; Philippines, where twice
Mr. Garrison has been on the point of
resigning, of the Mexican policy, and
of the administration of the army.
The Real Inside: -Those who
ate on the inside in Washington affiirs
realize perfectly that, after the mon
archal not to say tyrannical attitude
of President Wilson the most import
ant divergence of view between Judge
Garrison and the president related to
the Philipines, a divergence which
twice before very nearly occasioned
Mr. Garrison's resignation. Here is
some of the unwritten, but clealy es
tablished, history. In March, 1913,
the gravity of the floods in Dayton,
Ohio, and that vicinity led the Presi
dent to send Secretary Garrison to the
scene. Hardly had he left town
when Secretaries Bryan and Dan
iels (who was always a "me too" to
Bryan) appeared at the White House
and urged the President to appoint Joe
Davies, then Secretary of the Demo
cratic National Committee and Com
missioner of Corporations, Gjvernor
General of the Philipines. The Pres
ident, who had become somewhat sen
sitive because several men had refused
proffered appointments, replied that
he would not offer the place to Davies
until he learned that Davies would ac
cept. Bryan and Daniels departed to
consult Davies, but some friend quiet
ly wired Garrison what was doing.
Mr. Garrison immediately wired the
President: "I emphatically protest
against the appointment of a Governor
General of the Philippines during my
absence." Then Bryan and Daniels
came back. "Joe will accept and is
delighted with the offer," they said.
"But I have not offered him the place,
replied Mr. Wilson, "I merely com
missioned you to ascertain if he would
accept," and although convinced he
was wrong, nothing they covld say
would induce him to change his posi
tion. When Mr. Garrison returned he
took the matter up with the President,
who asked: What is the matter with
Joe?" Mr. Garrison replied: "W.
Cimeron Forbes, the present incunr
bedt, is a high class, broad-gauge man.
I regard that place as the most impor
tant in my Department, and the sue
cess cf my administrate of
the War Department is largely
dependent on the ability cf
Forbes' successor. I sympathize with,
yjur desire to appoint a democrat. I
hiv nothing against Davies except
thit I do not regard him as a big
enough man for the place." The
President straightened up and said:
'Gurison, do you question the right
of the President to appoint whom he
sees fit as GuverGrneral of the Phili
pines?" "Nd Mr. Prrsident," replied
Garrison, looking Mr. Wiison in the
eye, "I merely want to make sure that
when you announce the appointment
. of Joe Davies as Gjvernyr General of
of the Philippines you will simultane
ously announce the resignation of Lind
ley M. Gustisog as Stcutaiy ol War."
"Oh said the .President, "if you feel
as strongly as that about it we will say
no more about the matter." Mean
while, however, Joe Davies had told
his friends, "in confidence," that he
was to succeed Forbes. And here is
the official confirmation of this story.
Mr. Wilson soon thereafter appointed
Davies Chairman of the Trade Com
mission, and when the official type
written statement was given out at the
White House it contained this con
cluding paragraph: Mr. Davies had
previously declined the Governor Gen
eralship of the Philippines because he
had young children and feared the
effect on their health of the tropical
climate." During all the time that
Davies occupied the position of Com
missioner of Corporations, which should
be an essentially non partisan office,
he had continued to hod the office
and perform the duties cf Secretary of
the Democratic National Committee.
How Garrison Got the Job
Some time later Secretary Garrison was
persuaded to go on an inspection tour
of the army posts and fortifications.
He was reported at Seattle, then lost
sight of. Finally it wss discovered that
he and Mrs. Garrison were making a
trip through the Yellowstone Park.
There the President telegraphed him
asking if he had any objection to the
appointment of Francis Burton Harrison
as Governor-General of the Philipines.
He replied, in substance: "Don't
know Harrison, but if he measures up
to the requirements I have outlined to
you I have no objection." When Mr.
Wilson announced Harrison's appoint
ment he was asked by a newspaper
man who knew the details of the Davies
incident, if Mr. Garrison approved of
Harrison's appointment. "Why crr
tainly. Of course he does," replied
the President. "Mr. President, don't
you manage to extract a good deal of
enthusiasm from a rather chilling tele
gram?" was the next question. The
newspaper man was hazarding a guess
on his knowledge of Mr. Garrison's
views. The President promptly re
sented what he termed "the insinua
tion" in the question and declined
further to discuss the subject, but he
caused an extensive investigation to
be made in an effort to ascertain how
the newspaper correspondent had
learned the contents of Mr. Garrison's
telegram. When Secretary Garrison
returned to Washington, learned how
little Harrison did mearure up to the
requirements he had outlined, and real
ized that Wilson had put one over
on him, he came very near resigning,
but decided to wait and see how Har
rison turned out. It is only fair to
Harrison to say that, in Judge Garri
son's opinion, Harrison has done less
badly than he feared. When Mr
Wilson supinely yielded to the per
nicious and reallr decei'ful "Clarke
Amendment" to the Philippine bill,
holding out to the Filipinos false hopes
of independence in four years, Mr.
Garrison, who places conscience above
political expediency, could no longer
remain in the Wilson cabinet, wholly
apart from the question of military
preparedness.
Opposed Mexican Policy. Sec
retary Garrison, while never pressing
his views, never failed to express in
unmistakable terms at the Cabinet
table his disapproval of President Wil
son's Mexican policy. In the summer
of 1913 one of the largest manufactur
ers of arms and ammunition advised
Secretary Bryan that they had received
a large order for rifles ' and cartridges
from Mexico, that they hated to fill the
order because they believed that ulti
mately these very rifles would be turned
against American soldiers, but that un
less the President would restore the
embargo on arms going into Mexico
they would be obliged to fill it or their
competitors would. Mr. Bryan in
quired if the arms were for Huerta or
the insurgents, and, on being told they
were for the insurgents, replied that
there was no objection to the order
being filled. Secretary Garrison
learned the facts, however, before an
answer had gone back to the manu
facturers and went four times in a sin-
gle day to plead with the President to
restcre the embargo but, of course,
without avail.
Garrison and Mcadoo: There
was no member of the Cabinet who
felt so keenly the impropriety and in
justice to other Cabinet officers in
volved in President Wilson's retention
of his son-in-law in the Cabinet. He
felt that it placed other Cabinet offi
cers in a position where they could not
oppose Mr. McAdoo's schemes without
opposing a member of the President's
own family and perhaps incurring the
very effective opposition cf the Presi
dent's favorite daughter. Judge Gar
rison and McAdoo took diametrically
opposing views of practically every
question and McAdoo came thoroughly
to dislike the Secretary of War. A
notable instance of this was seen when,
recently, it was discovered that while
the Secret Service, under McAdoo, was
being financed by Mr. Garrison,
through a War Department appropria
tion, in the investigation of those neu
trality violatians which led to the de
mand for Captain Boy-Ed's recall, Mr.
McAdoo was causing the investigations
to be made by the investigating force
of the Department of Justice for rea
sons he doubtless could explain if he
would.
NOT SURPRISING: To those on the
inside, Mr. Garrison's resignation
conies as no surprise. Your readers
may recall that as long ago as April
8, 1915, his resignation was predicted
in these letters, together with some
explanation of the causes of his dissat
isfaction. The real surprise was" that
he managed to hold on as long as he
did, and probably the explanation of
that is that with the retirement of Mr.
Bryan, he hoped for an improvement
and possibly with the appointment of Mr
Gregory as Attorney-General. Of all
the men in the Cabinet the only one
consistently sympathetic with Mr. Gar
rison has been Secretary Lane, and,
of course, his duties are in a widely
different sphere, although his resigna
tion would occasion no great suprise.
Under the circumstances, it is not sur
prising that Democrats are sorely de
pressed by Mr. Garrison's retirement.
Losing His Temper
The President's speech at Des
Moines contained severe language
which the reporters undoubtedly in
inspired thereto promptly translated
into an attack, more or less personal,
upon Colonel Roosevelt. We shall
not come to the Colonel's defense.
He is amply able to attend to that
himself. But we can see in the in
cident the evidence of Wilson's poli
tical doom. He sees it, too. And
because he sees it, because he realizes
that that his appeal to the people has
not met with the response favorable to
his own p.litical future which he had
hoped to receive, he loses his temper.
No man conducting a winning fight
ever gets angry. It is the loser who
"sees red" and starts in to "rip and
tear". The episode further proves
that Woodrow Wilson is not the super
man whom Tumulty and the other
idolaters of the White House have set
him up to be. He is rather like a
peevish little boy who "gets mad."
It has been said that the Republican
party needs . a candidate for senator
who can properly answer Senator Reed
on the stump. There are those who
think that in a senatorial contest a fin
ished orator with power of sarcasm and
shafts of ridicule is necessary. Mr.
Dickey is not an orator in the sense of
being a finished public speaker, but
he is able to talk sense to the people
on the subject of the issues now be
fore them and they are peculiarly in a
mood to hear that sort of talk. He is
clear headed, direct and forceful in
presenting the facts this year that will
controvert and destroy Senator Reed in
his campaign for re election. There
need be no fear that Mr. Dickey, who
is especially at home with the business
problems now before the people, will
not be amply ablr to take care of Mr,
Reed or any other advocate of a reve
nue tariff.
The Real Voice Of The People
Amsterdam (N. Y.) Democrat
The Democrats will promise anything
to get into power but experience has
shown again that they do not keep
their pledges.
Burlington (la.) Hawkeye At the
present rate it will not be long until it
is a high crime for a citizen of the
United States to leave its borders.
Sioux Falls (S. D.) Slate Forum
In the light of the past, it is probable
that the President might accomplish
more by taking the Senate into his
confidence and listening to it ftom&(
time to time.
Albia (la ) Union Only the Euro
pean war has partially warded off the
hatd times that go with a Democratic
administration.
Minot (N. D.) Optic Reporter
The Republican and Progressive part
ies will likely do a leap-year stunt next
June.
Harriman (Tenn.) Record- Presi
dent Wilson has pursued a very un
even course of cutting and trimming
his sails to suit the weather and at the
same time has pleased no one particu
lar element.
Norwich (Conn.) Bulletin It is
evident that President Wilson does not
attach much importance to the "watch
ful waiting" policy when it comes to
tunning for office.
Marian (Ind.) Chronicle There is
no one who would withold from Wood
row Wilson a full recognition of his
worth as a man. As a President, he
fails largely on account of his academic
training,
Salem (Ore.) Statesman Those
who maintain that the United State:)
should yield all its rights at sea with
out a struggle, if struggle appears to
involve the sligntest possibility of an
ultimate appeal to arms, are preaching
a despicable doctrine.
Rochester (N. Y.) Times The
second term question with President
Wilson is whether he can get it.
Little Falls, )Minn.) Transcript
Secretary Lansing seems to be living
on the same salary that Bryan couldn't.
Grand Rapids (Mich.) Herald
The passing of Huerta will remove at
least one mote from the presidential
eye and perhaps the White House vis
ion will now become, belatedly, a lit
tle clearer.
San Antonio (Tex.) Republic-
President Wilson has squandered a great
deal of the country's money for junket
ing trips for his pets.
Uniontown (Pa.) Herald Champ
C'ark isn't going to be so bitterly dis
appointed at not getting the Demo
erotic nomination this year.
Newcastle (Ind.) Courier The
Wilson administration will certainly be
up against it if it ever runs out of per
fumed note paper.
Gave Garrison The Double Cross
The genesis of Secresary Garrison's
resignation is readily traceable. It
had its roots in the intellectual honesty
aud candor of Mr. Garrison's nature,
which first found itself at variance with
his chief in relation to the Mexican
policy, where the pueril and piffling
Bryan methods were permitted to rule
a situation which Mr. uarnson telt
should be dealt with firmly and in man
fashion. But the real point of germi
nation rested in the President's mes
sage to Congress a year ago when he
lauded "a citizenry trained in arms"
as the best means of defense for Ameri
ca. Mr. Garrison never embraced th's
doctrine fundamentally; and he was
much gratified last spring, when the
War Department was instructed to draw
a program for increasing the national
defense along lines which military ex
perls could approve. This program
was produced, but it never received
executive approval and later the War
Department was ordered to draft a pol
icy which should be based upon the
Wilsonian dictum of an armed citizenry.
The Continental Army scheme was the
result. There is nothing to indicate
that Mr. Garrison was enamored of the
plan, but he was given to understand
that the President favored it and that
the endorsement and support of the
White House would follow. Accord
ingly he lent the full force of his act
ive and vigorous mind to the develop
ment and advocacy of the Continental
Army, thinking it to be just what Wil
son wanted and deeming it the part
of loyalty to his superior to throw the
entire weight of his influence in its
behalf, even if he had undertaken the
task with some misgivings.
This plan received Mr. Wilson's
full approval in the face about message
which he Qelivered to Congress this
ear and Mr. Garrison went boldly
before the committees of Congress to
advocate the scheme which he believed
to be dear to the President's heart.
He loyally took responsibility for the
plan upon himself and he made an ex
ceedingly forceful presentation of a
case which he had been led to think
was the President's own.
It soon became apparent that the
Continental Army had a few friends in
Congress and the President's candid
acy for a second term brought about a
remarkable change of front at the
White Ho-jse. The President's fa
mous "open mind" began to mani
fest itself, and Mr. Garrison immedi
ately noticed an omnious slackening of
enthusiasm for the Continental Army
on its own father. The Secretary how
ever, remained true. He continued
to advocate the measure which Wilson
had thrust upon him and he contin
ued his advocacy of it to the point
where it became necessary to kuow
whether he was soon to find himself en
tirely bereft of the President's confi
dence and support and to confront, in
stead, a President who was openly
dealing with the opponents of the
plan.
An exchange of opinions developed
what Mr. Garrison has described as
hopeless diherences and, like an
honorable man, Mr. Garrison withdrew
from the Cabinet.
His action has brought consterna
tion not alone in the ranks of Demo
cracy but in the ranks of those who
honestly want an effective policy but
it does mean that such policy can
be developed only by men of honest
and patriotic motives. Garrison is
such a man. Wilson is not. Two
such men cannot long remain in close
association. Garrison's withdrawal was
inevitable sooner or later. The only
question was to the point on which
he should part company with the Pres
ident. Playing Horse With Us
The announcement that the Turk
ish admirablty will "assume" respon
sibility for the sinking of the Persia is
an indication of the low estate in which
this administration is held by the Euro
pean belligerents. To think of a Turk
ish submarine sinking anything except
itself is a joke. So is the performance
of pushing Turkey forward as the cul
prit. We can imagine the chuckles
with which the Teutonic diplomats
have framed up this sardonic bit cf
humor at our expense. The admission
will call forth a "stern note" of course.
And when another ship is torpedoed
we suppose it will be the Bulgarians or
the Albanians who will take their place
in the confessional and admit that they
did it.
In his various industries, a consider
able number of which are located in
Missouri, Walter S. Dickey every year
pays more than a million dollars in
wages to labor. This is one feature
of his attitude on the labor question
that will favorably impress a good many
men at this time.
The farmers of Missouri, who are
coming to realize as they never have
before the need of good roads for their
marketing, will be interested in know
ing that Walter S. Dickey is publicly
committed to a project of national aid
to hard surface road building, which
will reduce the burden of the taxpayers,
on this account, to the lowest possible
point. Mr. Dickey believes that good
roads are a first class investment, and
that there is a plan of national aid
which is feasible.
The BranrJeis Appointment
While siraple-minddd souls were
bombarding the President with sug
gestions that he appoint William H.
Taft to the Supreme Court this on
the assumption that Mr. Wilson's fa
mous "open mind" was in operation
the president, without consulting any
one, nominated Louis D. Brandeis for
the position.
No one will question Mr. Brandeis's
intellectual power, though he is not of
the mental type that one instinctively
associates with the idea of the courts;
but he was not named on account of
his intellect. Neither was he chosen
on geographical considerations. New
England and Massachusetts already
have one member of the court in Jus
tice Holmes. The Eastern States are
represented by Justice Hughes of New
York and Pitney of New Jersey. The
South has Chief Justice White of Lou
isiana and Justice McReynolds of Tex
as. The Northwest has Justice Van
DeVanter of Wyoming; and the Pacific
Coast has Justice McKenna of Califor
nia. While the great central West
has Justice Day of Ohio. Thus from
Ohio to Wjoming on the one side, to
Louisiana on the other a vast section
of the country has no representative on
the highest bench. A few days be"
fore the President took action it was
reported, seemingly on authority, that
the new justice would come from the
Middle West and would be a Demo
crat. He comes, in fact, from New
England and he was not regarded as
a good enough Democrat to have a
portfolio in the Cabinet when Mr. Wil
son took office.
It has been freely charged that this
appointment was made from consider
ations of pure or impure politics.
We would like to think this charge
without foundation. Eut there is much
collateral evidence to support it. If
true, it means that, for the first time
since John Adams named the famous
"midnight judges" a century ago,
our highest tribunal has been made to
serve as the instrument of a partisan
President in a moment of partisan des
peration. Mr. Dickey Is A Business Man
A Democratic newspaper published
at Campbell, Mo., is reported to have
said of Walrer S. Dickey:
"Dickey is a Kansas City gobbler
and had it not been for his barrel,
he never would have been heard of,
since he has no ability."
The truth of the matter is that Mr.
Dickey was a force in the affairs of
Kansas City, Jackson County and Mis
souri long before, by his business gen
ius and indomitable energy, he became
possessed of his so called "barrel."
He did not inherit his money, but
took an industry from the hands of ex
perienced men who had made a failure
of it, and. without experience except
as he accumulated it from time to
time, made it a great success If he
had had no ability he could not have
don this, as every body with the least
endowment of sense will know.
His neighbors know him as a man
with a master mind, a superlative or
ganizer, far sighted, a thorough student
and a keen observer ol men, methods
and matter.
He began life as a bookkeeper on a
small salary and he made his own way
to his present position. As a young
unmarried man without property and
without money, he had a notable in
fluence in the community in which he
lived, and was always a force, not only
because of his ability, but because of
the intense patriotism whfch has char
acterised him in his political relations.
Nobody who has a real acquaintance
with Mr. Dickey has ever suspected
him of an improper use of the money
which his genius and energy have ac
cumulated, He has never tried to
buy men eithei in business or in poli
tics and it is foreignt to his instincts
and purpose to do so in the present
senatorial contest. He is a clean
handed, upright man and there is cot
another in Missouri who has. used so
large a proposition of his accumulations
unselfishly in furtherance of the public
good.
