THE BARUE BAILY TIME
VOL. XIX-NO. 292.
.RARRE, VERMONT, TIIUIISDAV, rEHRUARV 24, 1910.
ritICK, ONE CENT.
FRENCH
LINES
HOLD
Although the War Office in
Paris Admits the Loss of
the Village of Brabant in
Verdun Region. Where
Tremendous German As
sault Is Being Delivered
BRITAIN'S AIM
IS NOT ALTERED
250,000 MEN HURLED
ON 25-MILE FRON
Emperor William Has Taken
Up His Headquarters, To
gether with the Crown
Prince, on the Verdun
Front, Where Fighting Is
Going on with Great Fury
Berlin, via London, Feb. 24. Fur
ther gains for the Germans in the re
gion north of the French fortress of
Verdun were reported by the war
office to-day. The statement says
that the entire wooded district
northwest and northeast of . Beau
mont and the forest of Herbe are in
the possession of the German. The
. announcement also was made of the
capture by the Germans of the vil
lages of Brabant, Haumont and Sa
mogneux in the Verdun region.
Paris, via London, Feb. 24. The
fighting is continuing with undimin
ished intensity in the region north
. of Verdun, the war office announced
to-day. The loss of the village of
Brabant was admitted. The war of
fice declares that the French line has
not been broken at any point.
London, Feb. 24. Emperor Wil
liam has established his headquar
ters at the German positions facing
Verdun, according to information re
ceived from Berlin by way of Copen
hagen by the Evening News.
The great battle on the western front,
Where more than 250,000 Germans are
A assaulting the French lines along a 25
mile front to the north of the fortress of
Verdun, is the outstanding feature of the
current war news. To take Verdun is
one of the chief ambitions credited to the
German crown prince, and the present ef
fort under his command is on a scale
that indicates the most determined effort
yet made to break down the barriers
with which the French have protected the
stronghold.
Al: the last accounts the battle was
still raging with great fury, both sides
keeping up a continuous fire from all
their available artillery and throwing
masses of troops into the fray. The
losses on each side are extremely heavy,
In the fighting on the second day the
x 1 J - i : 1 .
Hermans pusnea ineir way at puims two
miles inside of the former French lines
and lesa than eight miles from the fort'
ress. The French claim to have checked
the German advance at most points.
Premier Asquith Declares Hia Country
Is Just as Determined as Ever to
' Free Belgium and Serbia.
London, Feb. 24. Premier Asquith
found himself unexpectedly face to fai
in the House of Commons yesterday
with a new demand for the government'i
views on peace. He took up the gaunt
let ulmimt eagerly, and in a bristling IS
minute speech made it clear that the
British covernment 8 determination to
earry the war to the end without com
promise, had not abated since tho early
days of the struggle.
The prime ministers stern declaration
created a deep impression on all parts of
tha House, and tins found reflection sub
sequently in the lobbies.
1 ho occasion for the premier pro
noiineetnent was a speech winch Philip
Snowdcn. of tho Independent Labor
party, injeeted into the debate on the
consolidated fund bill, a routine measure
providing appropriations mainly for in
terest on the national debt.
Mr. Snowden urged that the time was
ripe for peace negotiations, maintaining
that there was little or no hope for a
crushing victory on either side, mid that
if the war went on all the participants
would be bankrupted in men and money.
Mr. Asquith s speech in reply was fol
lowed by a score of speeches, for the
most part applauding the premiers po
sition. Two or three so-called peace ad
vocates supported Mr. Snowden, but
found themRclves scarcely tolerated by
their audience. The only applause uur
ing any of the pro-peace speeches came
from a spectator in the strangers gal
lery, who was promptly ejeeted.
Stephen Ytalsh, for the lAbor party,
denied that Mr. Snowden expressed the
opinion of Labor.
The House of Lord continued yester
day the debate on the blockade. Baron
Sydenham finally withdrew his motion
for a stricter blockade after the earl of
Crewe, lord president of the council, had
further clarified the government s posi
tion.
PORTUGAL HAS
CAST HER LOT
WITH ALLIES
Commander of Naval Divi
sion Took Forcible Posses
sion of 36 German and
Austrian Vessels Lying in
Tagus River and Hoisted
the Flag of Portugal over
Them
LOP OFF RUTLAND R. R.
IN RECOMMENDATION
GOVT. CLAIMS NO
PREVIOUS KNOWLEDGE
Captain Leotte Rego Appar
ently Took the Action on
Own Initiative, Directing
His. Operations from the
Destroyer G u a d i a n a
Portugal Has Long Been
Ready
GERMAN NAVAL MAN
DIED IN BERLIN
Admiral Von Pohl, Whose Retirement as
Head of German Battle Fleet Was
Announced Two Days Ago.
Berlin, via London, Feb. 24. Admiral
Von Pohl, whose retirement on account
of ill health from his position as com
mander of the German battle fleet, was
announced two days ago, has died in
Berlin.
BRITISH STEAMER CAPTURED.
FRENCH WELL PREPARED.
Expected the Assault To Be Delivered on
Verdun.
Paris, Feb. 24. The battle of Verdun
continues with growing intensity. It ex
tends over a front of 40 kilometers (25
miles), and seven German army corps
(280,000 men) are engaged. Tins an
nouneement was made officially by the
war office last night,
v The official statement reads:
"In the region north of Verdun the
German attack, as wm foreseen, devel
oped into a very iniKrtant action, for
which powerful preparations were made.
"The battle continued to-dav with in
creasing intensity, and was energetically
withstood by our troos, who indicted
extremely heavy losses on the enemv.
The bombardment with shells of heavy
cajibre was uninterrupted, and our artil
lery responded with equal violence. It
evtends along a front of nearly 40 kilo
meters ( jnilcs) trom .Mnlancourt as
far as the region opposite Ktain.
"The actions of the German infantry
were carried out by very heavy effec
tives, comprising troop of wven differ
ent army corps, who followed each other
during the course of the day between
1'rsbant sur Mcuse and Ormez.
"At the approach to the village of
Haumont the enemy van not able, not
withstanding bis efforts, to dislodge lis
from our positions. In the Boia des
taures, of which we hold the greater
part, our counter-attacks stopped the
enemv a offensive,
"Faet of the Bois den Can res the Ger
mans were aWa to penetrate the Wav
rille wood, following a series of Moody
enemmtera.
The Westburn Puts Into Port Under Ger
man Flag.
London, Feb. 24. A dispatch received
from Santa Cruz, Teneriffe (Canary is
land), says the British steamer, West-
burn, has put in there for repairs flying
the German flag and with a prize crew
of seven men and one officer. The officer
believed to belong to the German raid
er Moewe.
In addition to her crew, there are 2W$
prisoners taken from various British ves
sels on the Westburn. The Westburn
left Liverpool January 21 for Buenos
ires.
The Westburn is a vessel of 3,300 tons.
She was built in 18fl3 and is owned by
I. Westall of Sunderland. The prison-
on board came from the British
steamers Flemeneo. Horace. Clan McTav-
sh and Cambridge, the British bark Kd-
inburgh and the Belgian steamer Luxem
bourg.
I he cstbiirn, after her departure
trom Liverpool, was last reported as
passing St. Vincent, Cape Vcrdo, Feb
ruary 4. The Flemeneo left Newport,
England, for Valparaiso, January 21, and
the Horace left Buenos Aires January
20 for Liverpool. The Luxembourg was
Lisbon, Wednesday, via Paris, Thurs
day, Feb. 24. Captain Leotte Rego, com
mander of the naval division here, at 4
'clock this afternoon apparently on his
own volition, took forcible possession of
30 German and Austrian vessels lying in
the Tague river, hoisted the Portuguese
flag on them and saluted them with a
21-gun salvo from the Portuguese fleet.
It is said that the act of Captain Rego
was totally unexpected by the govern
ing authorities, who were unaware of the
step until it had been carried out. Rego
directed his operations from the destroy
er Guadiana. 1
Despite many rumors since the out
break of the war. that Portugal was on
the point of declaring a state of war with
the central empires on account of treaty
relations with Great Britain, no such dec
laration had ever been made. The Portu
guese congress voted to cooperate with
the allies whenever that step seemed
necessary.
CONGRESS FEELS
AGITATED OVER
SHIP WARNING
Massachusetts Public Service Commission
( Makes Report on New Haven R.
R. Investigation.
Boston, Feb. 24 Recommendation that
the New York, New Haven and Hartford
railroad should further divest itself o
properties not essential parts of its sys
tern are contained in ft reiKirt by the
state public service commission to the
legislature, made public yesterday. The
report is based on an investigation of the
capital expenditure and investments or
the road ordered by the last legislature
Disposal of the Kutjand Railroad com
pany stock should be- required within
three years; the securities of all gas
electric and water companies should be
sold within a similar period; and four
small street railway companies which
the New Haven owns, directly iu ton
necticut, should likewise be divorced
from the railroad system, according to
the commission.
The reiiort recommends that the New
r.ngland Navigation, company be dis
solved and its assets and liabilities taken
over by the New Haven company. Dis
solution was recommended also for the
Subway and Westchester Construction
company, the Koxbury Central Vnarr
and the South Bay Wharf and Terminal
company.
1 he commission held that the New Ha
ven could properly retain interests In
its steamship companies, "provided tha
consent of the interstate commerce com
mission were secured,' and favored tho
retention also of the New Haven's in
terest in all controlled railroad com
panies except the Rutland, including
leased lines. The New York, Ontario and
Western holdings, however, it was re
ported, might well be aold if the trans
ition could be arranged without finan-
ial loss to the road. '
Limitation of the dividends of the New
Haven company to not more than five
per cent was recommended as a means of
providing ajfainst reductions in book
values and actual losses to' be incurred
through sale of the several propertiea
a ordered by the federal dissolution de
cree, and recommended by the public
service commission. The commission sug
gested that the five per cent dividend
limitation tie made effective until such
time as the net amouu of such losses
had been offset by appropriations from
earnings or by contribution from stock
holders.
The question of federal incorporation
of the New Haven company was suggest
ed by the commission as deserving of
serious study.
SLAIN
AFTER
DISPUTE
A. C. Gibson, a Prominent
Lumber Contractor o f
Sharon, Bled to Death
This Morning, After Re
ceiving a Gun Wound in
Thigh After Dispute over
Lumber
CHARLES LATON ALSO
AGED RESIDENT DEAD.
Loren H. Hooker Recently Observed Hii
90th Birthday.
Loren H. Hooker, one of Barre's oldest
residents, having passed his lioth birth
day on February 12, lust, died at 3
o clock this morning at his home. 11
Prospect street. Shortly after observing
hia birthday in a quiet way, Mr. Hooker
was taken ill, and his sickmixa developed
into pneumonia, which was the cause of
hia death.
Mr. Hooker was born in Peacham, Feb.
12, 1820, being a son of lfartwcll and
Cynthia Hooker. Ho passed his early
life in that town and vicinity, and came
to Barre over 60 years ago. Since then
lie had been a resident of this place, be
ing engaged a long time in carpentry and
allied occupations, for some time he had
been retired from active work. He wa
prominently identified with Hedding
.Methodist church here and wis one o
the oldest Masons in Barre.
Mr. Hooker was married three times
His third wife was Julia A. Phillips o
Montpelier, and she survives him. A sis
er also survives, she lieing Mrs. I). G
Bickford of Elmira, N. V., and lieing now
the last of fourteen children. There are
many nephews and nieces.
. The funeral will be held at the Hedding
church Saturday afternoon at 2 o clock
being preceded by a prayer service at the
house. Kev. h. r. Newell will officiate
and interment will be in Klmwood ceme
tery.
BOTH CITIES
ARE OPPOSED
Barre City Council Refused
Traction Co. Plan; Mont
pelier Tabled It .
SENTENCES IMPOSED
PLEADED GUILTY
TO EMBEZZLEMENT
Charles W. Porter, Former Postmaster at
Guildhall, Will Be Sentenced in
U. S. Court Later,
Burlington, Feb. 24. The U. S. grand
jury late yesterday brought in an indict
ment against Charles W. J'orter, charged
On Two Youthful Clothes-line Thieves in
Gibson Went to J. L. Con- Barre
, , , rru Hf I House of correction and industrial
QOnS rami 1IUS MOming school sentences were imposed in city
4 4L. T. i court last evening when Henry Uflower
i" u Uic Ajuuiuc aim and Clyde Laforest, two River street
iir iir j i youths, were arraigned before Magistrate
Was Warned, by Member ,L w. Scott on p;tit lHroeiiy complaints
charging them with the wholesale de
nudation of clothes-lines in the north
end. The respondents each pleaded guil
ty and Laforest was sentenced to serve
the remainder of his minority in the
state industrial school at Vergenncs, or
until Feb. 20, 1919, the alternative being
a sentence of several months in the house
of correction. Laflower, the older of the
pair, was sentenced to serve not less
maximum of
five months in the Rutland institution.
They will begin their sentences at once.
Yesterday was a busv day with officers
assigned to the trail of missing wash
and laundry matter. The more they
looked the more they found and evidence
pointing to the allegation that Iarlower
of the Laton Family to
Desist, Which He Refused
to Do
South Koyalton, Feb. 24. A. C. Gib
Son, ft prominent lumber contractor of (than four months with
the town of Sharon, residing near the
Royalton line, bled to death this morn
ing after receiving a shot wound in the
thigh while attempting to load some
lumber at the farm of J. L. Condon, at
what is known as the Quimby place. The
and laforest were nmkinir a husinras of
-I i; j i- i I . "
snooting m anegeo to nave tanen piace stealing clothes continued to accumulat
VIGOROUS "7I0N.
BY
FORMER
Montpel; Evinced a Desire
to .n Accord with
.. .. Others ,
Pres. Wilson's Emphatic Stand Against
Action to Warn Intending Trans-
Atlantic Passengers Meets
with Opposition.
Washington, D. C, Feb. 24. Demo
cratic members of the House foreign af
fairs committee to-day began a canvass
to ascertain the sentiment of the House
on the question of warning Americans to
keep off armed ships of European bcl-
a mi i , .
ligerents. This is being done as a result
of the agitation in Congress yesterday,
following the introduction of resolutions
on the subject.
Although the president had let it be
L-nnn-n l,o 1ia .......l.il l.i , I
"ii a voyage from Newport for Buenos' . . ., . ..
Aires, having departed for the South ! '"'?. " """ u.,..omu:
A A 1- lo rri. l 1 uau"IJn
Edinburgh sailed from Rangoon, India,
September 22, for Liverpool. The Luxem
bourg and the Flemeneo had been placed
on the overdue list. The Cambridge can
not be identified.
The fact that the steamship West
burn has among the prisoners on lmard
men from the British steamship Clan
McTavish, sunk after an exciting battle
by the (ierman raider Moewe off the west
coast of Africa in January, seemingly
would indicate that the Flamenco, Hor
ace., Edinburgh and Luxembourg had mat
a similar fate. The Moewe, which cap
tured the British South African liner
Appam, which was later taken into
Hampton Roads by a German prize crew,
in addition to disposing of the Clan Mc-
Tavish, destroyed six other steamers, the
Corbridge, which probably is the Cam
bridge referred to in the London dis
patch, Trader, Author, Ariadne, Drumon-
by and Farringford.
submarine
s
WRECK VICTIMS
ARE RECOVERING
Meanwhile Two Inquiries are Under Way
One by Interstate Commerce Com
mission, and Other by Coroner.
New Haven. Conn., Feb. 24. Two in
quiries into the rear-end collision of pas
senger trains at Milford Tuesday, which
caused ten deaths, were under wav to-
ilay. The interstate commerce commis
sion opened an investigation this morn
with Germany
warrare, sucn strong pressure wa
brought to bear for action that the com
mittee felt it could not be ignored
When Congress assembled, agitation
for action warning Americans overshad
owed all other questions, and President
Y ilson s supporters were working to hoi
the administration forces in line. Word
went to the capitol that the president
opposition to any action oy longTess was
unshaken and that Chairmen Stone and
Flood of the committees dealing with for
eign relations would explain his position
fully. It was apparent that much of
the chafing in Congress was due to the
lack of' information of the president's
attitude. Administration officials outside
of Congress professed to be undisturbed
and expressed confidence that the presi
dent s position would be supported
Germany has not yet replied to the
latest request from W ashington for
declaration that the previous assurances
for the safety of unresisting liners apply
to the conduct of the new submarine
campaign.
cenaior iiore announced to-day lie
would offer a concurrent resolution, ex
pressing it to be the sense of Congress
that Americans should keep off armed
belligerent sjflps. Such a resolution
would differ from bis bill for the same
purpose in that it would not require ap
proval by the president. It seeks to re
move as the cause for war the injury of
any American on an armed belligerent
ship.
Senator (iore oujj)it to intro.lui-e.the
resolution and bill by unanimous consent
to-day, but Senator Rrandegre. Republi
fter an argument between Gibson and I Several people who missed clothes-line
Charles Laton as to the ownership ot the articles last month called at police head
lumber. I quarters to identity clothing uncovcre
According to the report now available, by the police in their search.
Gibson bought the lumber of Condon, biitl This morning Mr. and Mrs. John Ab
was advised that it was better not to go I hey of 37 Branch street were arrested on
after it for the present time as there complaints made to Grand Juror v llha
might be trouble with Laton, who also Wishart charging them with having re
claimed ownership. Gibson replied tolceived and aided in the concealment of
the warning by saving be didn't think I clothes alleged to have been taken from
there would be anv trouble. Ho he start-1 clothes-lines by Laforest and Laflower.
ed for the woodlot this morning to get Abbey was taken in custody on North
the lumber. It is alleged that he was I .Mam street by Acting thief Harry Gam
met by one of the Laton family and was ble and Mrs. Abbey was arrested by Of
.. .. i J , . A IC T!- II. f 1.' X A - A 1 -
with the embezzlement of a little over wla "" w P"eeu any lunner. uiwn iner un . wism. it is aiaieu y
-!. f,m tt,. m,!. . !:ijt,ii ti. persisted in nis course ana receivea a me aumorines mat a portion oi in
respondent waV taken into court' and I bul,pt wo,,nd in th thiSh- 71,6 wound goods recovered was found at the Abbey
,.i..u.i.,h ;. irra- i,,;nT ' bled so profusely that the victim died be- home. When arraigned before Magis
...a f. i,, . ,4 ifore medical aid could be summoned. It trate Scott the man and his wife each
'in vocti; ivi nriiiEiHi-. i unci " o a in'n.- i , l.i , . ... m
is alo said that there was a wound over eniereo a pica oi not guntv. Jtaii wa
the head which might have been Inflicted fixed at $100 and the case was continued
by some blunt instrument. The body for hearings to be held this afternoon
remained at the Condon farm for some
time,
The county authorities were notified of
the shooting, the sheriff and the state s
post
master at Guildhall when the embezzle
ment, occurred and-he was arrested in
Illinois about two months ago and
brought back to this state to await
trial.
The trial of Hattie E. Mosea vs. James
K. Howe of Tunbridge was started in the I
GUILTY OF LESSER CHARGE.
ng. while that of Coroner Mix. hich j'"' of O""""-'" objected and shut the
was started yesterday, was still in prog
ress.
Twenty victims of the wreck -tiIl re
niained in hospitals, but all were recov-
ering.
PASSENGERS SCARED.
R.
When Piston Rod on New Haven R
Engine Snapped.
Wallingford. Conn., Feb. 24. Passen
ger on esprew train No. ."3. from Bos
ton to New ork. nn the New York.
IVw Haven and Hartford railroad, were
oiven a scare and shaking up near ;!e-
"North of Ormez the enemy's attacks ville last night, when one of the ptn
against our lines at Herheboii were ar- rods on the engine snapped in twain. The
rested by our counter-attack. There engine sped along the rails for a quarter
no infantry action on the left bank !of a mile before the engineer eonbi tiring
of the Metise, itrr between (iro andihis train to stop. Nne of the cars lei
I'lomettJ." ikm track.
proposal out. Senator
again to-morrow.
tiore will trv
CDMMINS A CANDIDATE.
Iowa Senator Wants to B President of
United States.
Ics Moines, la.. Feb. 24. Inited
States Senator Albert B. Cummins of
Iowa yesterday filed affidavits with the
secretary of state as a candidate for the
president of the t nitcj States on the
Republican ticket.
afternoon, the case growing out of in
juries received by the plaintiff when at
tacked by a bull owned by the defend
ant. A jury was drawn as follows: M.
L. Brooks of St. Albans, O. f. Carpenter
of Ksex Junction, Frank Ford of Isle
IaMotte, George Foss of Hyde Park, W.
B. Johnson of Essex, James Murphy of
Charlotte and Thomas Magner, J. Frank
Kidder, Charles A. Niles, Edward L.
Plant, (i. X. Roberts and Frank Talcott
of Burlington. Court was then ad
journed to two o'clock in the afternoon,
when the case was taken up.
The first witness called was James K.
Howe, defendant in the case, who was
called by the plaintiff. Other witnesses
heard were Frank J. Ackerman, Mrs. Orr,
Truman Parshley, Frank Ihirkee and F.
M. Ashley. There were other witnesses to
be heard when the case was resumed this
morning. The testimony taken . jester-
day afternoon was in regard to the pur
chase of two bull calves by the defend
ant from Mr. Ackerman. It was one of
these calves which injured the plaintiff
as she was passing through a field, out
of which the case grew.
Other cases on the docket for trial are
Roy McGowan vs. Postal Telegraph com
pany, the matter of the tug Ijoat "Paul
Leroux," etc., William L. Moses vs. James
K. Howe, a companion case to that now
on trial, George N. Ostrander vs. Amos
N, Blandin and trustees, Maud Runnels,
admrx. of Fred W. Runnels, vs town of
Royalton, and the bankruptcy cases of
Fraser Slate company and Martin H. Gib
son, alleged bankrupt.
Charles R, White of this city and Al-1
bert P. Avers of Swanton were given ths 1
oath and admitted to practice before the
United States district court. Both at
torneys have leen admitted to practice
before the supreme court.
attorney being called, after which a phv
sician from the state laboratory of hy
giene in Burlington was summoned. It
is reported that one member of the I.a
Jose Pardo Admitted Breach of the Peace
Last June.
A change in the charge from one of
assault with intent to kill to that of
ton family has already been placed under breach of the peace resulted this morniuc
arrest. m a. idea of innltv heinir entered liv .Tnse
Both the Iton and tondon families pardo. an turner Graniteville man. who
are comparatively newcomers in tins iu- was alleged to have been mixed up in t
cality, but the victim of the shooting fracas in Barre Town last snrinir. Mac
wns one of the best known men in this istrate H. W. Scott imposed a $10 fine
vicinity, coming trom a lamny that nas and costs of 16.... which the respondent
long been located here. Ihe virtim ot paid, the case was the outgrowth of a
the affair was 55 years of age and leaves
his wife and three children, two sons and
a daughter. For many vears, or prncti
cally all his life, he has been engaged In
lumber contracting jobs and, therefore,
had a wide acquaintance throughout this
section of the state, being familiarly
known as "Al." He was a very popular
man in bis home town and in surround
ing towns. For some time he wag en
gaged in contracting for the- Champlain
Realty company in Rochester and vicinity.
VETERINARIES IN DISCUSSION.
OPPOSE NEW MILK TARIFF.
Farmers Meet at Lyndonville and Take
Action.
Lyndonville. Feb. 24. At a largely at
tended meeting of farmers yesterday
with F. A. Rogers of Merideri, N. H,
members of the executive committee of
And Dr. Gny N. Welsh of Northficld Was
Elected President.
Burlington, Feb. 24. The semi-annual
meeting of the Vermont Veterinary Med
ical association, which was postponed
from January 22, was held yesterday aft
ernoon in the roof garden of the Hotel
Vermont, with an attendance of 20 mem
bers, the meeting being presided over
by Dr. Robert Weir of Rutland, president
of the association. The following offi
cers were elected for the ensuing year:
President, Dr. Guy X. Welsh of North
field; first vice-president, Dr. John Thom
as rf Wells River; second vice-president.
Dr. John Canty of Morrisville; secretary,
and treasurer, Dr. George Stephens of
White River Junction, (re-elected.) It
was voted to bold the next meeting of
the association at Rutland on July 12
and 13. The meeting was concluded with
a clinic this morning at the experiment
station stables, conducted bv lir. F. A.
Rich, professor of veterinary science at
the University of Vermont.
At the aession yesterday afternoon Dr
shooting, iu which a countryman of Par-
do received a bullet wound in the' hand
on the 13th of June. The affair happened
when a number of Spanish people assrm
bled in upper Graniteville for a bowling
tournament. Pardo was represented to
day by J. Ward Carver and E. R. Davis,
and State's Attorney F. K. Glcason, who
pressed the original charge againRt the
respondent, delegated Grand Juror il
liam Wishart to appear for the state.
CONDUCTING LOTTERY CHARGE.
M.
Hirsk of Boston Held for Trial at
Bellows Falls.
Bellows Falls, Feb. 24. M. Hirsk of
Boston, arrested on charge of conducting
lottery, was released under ?2i0 cash
bail. In municipal court this afternoon
the case was continued until Monday
morning.
Hirsk, it is alleged, is connected with
a furniture company of Boston, and .was
making collections from patrons of the
firm when arrested. These collections
are made weekly, and when a certain
amount is paid in the customers are to
receive furniture. The state alleges that
the full amount has not been paid in
by some of the customers, but they have
received furniture, thus furnishing the
basia for the lottery charge.
Fresh evidence that the Barrn city
council is not to submit to any overtures
for an abrogation of the franchise grant
ed to the Barre & Montpelier Traction &
Power company was at hand last night
at a special session of the council when.
a resolution rejecting the latest request
of the company for a modification of it
intercity and local trolley service was
adopted unanimously. In a tone of un
mistakable firmness and in language ca
pable of only one Construction, the reso
lution, after refusing the petition pre
sented at the regular meeting Tuesday
night, went on to place the blame for
the company's present financial predica
ment on iUi alleged policy of unfairnes
in dealing with the public.
Action on the proposal of the traction
people to institute sweeping changes in
its service for the purpose of reducing
expenses was not taken until the ques
tion had been pretty thoroughly dis
cussed, but when it came to voting on a,
resolution offered tentatively as a reply
to the petition, the council seemed to bo
of one accord. A searching examination
of the company's past history played no
unimportant part in the discussion and
the possibility of its future activity was
also considered from a number of angles.
Alderman Healy suggested that the city
councils of Barre and Montpelier and the
selectmen of Berlin would do well to con
fer jointly before finally taking action,
but when it was recalled that a confer
ence with all principals involved was
held last summer the suggestion was
dropped.
It wa on the motion of Alderman
Rossi, seconded by Alderman Keast, that
the following resolution, offered by the
latter alderman, was adopted:
"Resolved by the city council of the
city of Barre: Whereas, a petition has
been presented to this city council by
the Barre & Montpelier Traction & Pow
er Co., requesting a modification of the
schedule for. car service, as provided for
in section 15 of the franchise granted to
the aforesaid company by the city of
Barre; and having fully considered' the
reasons set forth bv said company in
said petition for said change; we hereby
refuse to grant said petition and dismiss
the same, as we do not believe the public
should be made to suffer for what we be
lieve to be the effect of poor management
on the part of the company.
"It is our , opinion that the causes
w hich have '-led to the present financial
position of tha company have been dun
largely toits pursuing a policy that was
objectionable to the traveling public, a.
policy ithieh for the time being has
alienated! fheir good will and support,
which they had heretofore cheerfully
given.
Before the council adjourned until 0:30
this evening, a small budget of routine
business had been transacted and a pro
tracted discussion of street department
trucks had prolonged the session. A
warrant of $400 in favor of the Barre
Savings Bank & Trust Co. for a six
months' interest dun March 1 on $20,00(1
per cent school bonds was approved for
payment and a resolution appropriating
I2i.fi.i for the care of public parks.
which was read for the second time, w as
dopted.
BLOOD POISONING FEARED.
he New Hampshire state grange and J. C. Parker of St. Albans read an inter-
also a member of the advisory hoard of
griciiltural in attendance, strong revv-
utions were passed opposing any revis
ion ot the tarin on transportation of
milk and cream whereby the farmer will
be obliged to take a less price for his
milk.
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
Don't Believe It.
-Marjnrie. if voti drink so much
Edmond J. King, St. Johnsburr Restau
rant Keeper, Has Big Debts.
Hut land. Feb. 24. hmond .1. Kinc of
St. Johnsbiirv. a retaurant proprietor.
of
Assistant Superintendent Reinhart
Borton & Maine Also Had Operation.
WoodsTille, X. H., Feb. 24. Assist.
ant Superintendent
Reinhart of the
White Mountain division of the Boston
A Maine railroad yesterday underwent
tin operation for appendicitis and his con
dition is critical. fearing that blood
poisoning bad developed arrangements
were made late in the afternoon for a
'microscopical analysis at ie .iry niicn-
veterdv filed a petition in bankruptcy.
are 7i32.;w d he ha
Caller
tea von mill be an cud maid. , His liabilities
Marjorie 1 don't Iwlieve that at all. I aet of M'CIS. w it h claimed er
Mamma drinks lots of t-a end s'.e's been Jetnpt. There i doe ecure. creditors. M.
married tiice and in"t an oil maid vet. Vearlv all the 4! iin-v ured credi
lkitloa Transcript. tors L in SU JwhnsUurj.
esting paper on "Anthrax," which was
followed by a general discussion of this
subject, and Ir. K. O. Barr of Barre told
of the symptoms of several interesting
cases w hich had not been diagnosed. An I
informal banquet was held last evening
in the dining r-om of the Hotel Vermont. ""'K noepnai a, m- ".c.
at which Dr. Will.am t a.hmore of Jen- f-" "f w;r' ,akrn
cho acted as tastmaster. State Live- hoapital the me-se-cr being earned to
tock Commisioner F. I- Davis of White Hanover on a light engine Arrange-
River Junction, who was to have made """" T T'V7 l"' !h" tr'P
an addres. wa. unable to be present be- ,na ' ,.a ,V"V , '
.... 1 I l ( 1 h.'ll!A.r I : Pin. Ia.
-
oo,lille at 5:4.), and reached Woodp
ile on the return at ":4, making the
cause of illness and no formal apeeche i r,lrg
were msile. out were wee impromptu
remarks trom nearly all in attendame.
Leas Seaaoa t B.
Father - Aren't you sorry Bow that roil
bit Willie .lore'"
Bobby I am t fca'f as wcttj as be ia.
round trio of l'2 miles in exactly two
hour. The engine stoned down at Han
oer thst the messenger for the h.xpi
tal mig!t drop ..fT. At Lite Kivcr
.'umtion the Kaomohte was turned and
made the return trip oa a clear iron.
The petition of the Barre & Montpelier
Traction & Power company to chango
the running time of its trolley cars, and
ncluding a proposition to charge a 10-
cent fare from April 1 until Dec. 1, was
aid on the table bv the Montpelier city
council at the final regular meeting of
le present board last evening, aldermen
nd mavor voting as one on the question.
TJie petition corresponds in every de
tail to one submitted to the Barre coun-
1 two nights ago and the local board t.
evidently wished to act in accordance
ith the other municiiml corporations in-
erested.
A motion to shove the bill of George L.
Blanchard, for the rental of land for the
past year and a half, on the shelf, was
defeated by a yea and nay vote 4 to 2
and, immediately, the council voted to
pay the bill. Some members wished Mr.
Blanchard to render a statement to the
effect that he would rent the hind for $75
per annum, but the others were of the
opinion that his word should suffice. ,
The settlement of the Mary Castor
mafter, so called, was left to the discre
tion of the overseer of the poor after an
opinion on the case bail been heard from
the city attorney, tieorce L. Hunt. The
town of Berlin makes the claim that the
support of the woman should fall on
Montpelier inasmuch as she was trans
ported from that city to the town fol
lowing her discharge from Ilea ton hos
pital. The city attorney tated that be
understood the facts to be such that the
city could not lie held responsible. Ac
cording to his information. Overseer Ijin-
phier paid 25 cents toward the hire of a
team to carry the woman away from the
hospital after her recovery from an ill
ness. It was the city attorneys bciirr
that the hospital people and Mr. fjin
phier might tie held liable but he failed
to see where the city could be. and '
eral ascs decided by supreme court were
quoted.
Final settlement was male by th
council with .1. K. ( aslimsn. the contra"
t-w. for hi work in contructinff the new
city farm building, it being Toted to
par him S2.I-VI. upon recommendation of
Arrhite,t r. A. Waiver. Architect Wa'k
er wa s Uo paid P2. the lln-e due
f..r I i wniik in connect ion with the new
LuiMuu.
