...... . -. . ....... . . -- '...-.,-
Our Combination-
Whifcire Cash Sbe
: Store Carries , its
LARGEST AD h
' This Issue -
IS WC1I
Yoar Consideration
v
V.. w
Western sit D-idEI
VOLXX1I1, NO 7
HENDERSONVILLE, N. C. THURSDAY .FEBRUARY 24, 1916
1.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE
PA
FAVORS SAWD
CLAY ROADS
rn COMMISSIONER JOURNEYS TO
VSHEVILLE AND HENDERSON
T1LLE FOR INFORMATION.
FIGHT BOND ISSUE
X Siienuous Campaign by Sylvan Yal
ey News for Better Roads Results
in Political Wrangle.
Editor Noah M. Hollowell oil the
Sylvan Valley News has piunged into
a campaign for good roads in . Transyl
vania county since taking charge o
his new PaPer- In a recent, issue of
fair paper he has the following to say
in reference to
Henderson county ;
roads and road builder P, F.-Patton:
Wood made a road inspection tour in i
Ltderson and Buncombe counties '
l11"
Cov nt v Commissioners Lyaay aoii
last week.
In his interview
Ccniniissioner
he found exactly
He expresses himself as heartily
fjivvr 01 buying a rocn: crusner aespite
tte ovei wneiuiing senumeni
here-'
atoms for sand-clay roads.
Commissioner Wood went exactly J
to the r"ght place to get all the thun- !
Wood made It Plato at.fW'-i thaj.tfie eirthoiiiei--
what he was peeking. tr.'". .'.ald a Swannauoa citizen.- ' "Lot. it
der hexvanted against sand-clay roads, od 'etious
Hr informs the Nevs man that he;1'013' q.uestlon.s.
He informs
the Nevs man
went to tiie
Hendersonville po
sroffice
am' consulted Postmaster Bry&on and :
Assistant Postmaster Hudgin, and . the
route men feeling jure Uiat they
f - r7L?r ited States and that $500,000,000 cani-1
tion of tne roads. Mr. Wood got all ; invested in them. One wonder
uieuu- iuatiuu u was iuu- , tfa. 1 1 n like Hendersou
for, but he didn't have to inform 1 T. , u fMi. i,ti
th3 Xeus that Sam Bryson and Hoke
Kudgins have been" among Henderson
ville's two bitterest opponents of sand
clay roads. They favored concrete or
bituiithic roads and bitterly fought
sand-clay. They say sand-clay is a
failure. . V-;' . , . .-.
The rural rOiUte mm -lef tithe im
pression with MriVoodthat the roads
tfere fl lTjigsf-lTnp.g ssa.bjf-y , 7 FjT5 1
ae dian t tate the pains to travel over
them. -' v - ; ' -".. -v , ;v
There are six rural routes "out of
Hendersonville. and since the govern
ment requires that the same route be
not covered twice by the mail carriers
during any one day the six mail car
riers have to travel insignificant trails,
to make up their routes, some of which
have not been repaired with- sand
day. About a year ago when" Mr. Hudgins
and Vxr. Bryson were fighting with all
their strength the building of. sand-
clay roads.. Mr. .Hudgins took the pains
to use a good deal of thunder handed
out by the road engineer of Buncombe
county. By some means Mr. Wood
consulted a man building a very expen
sive read from Asheville to Weayer
viile who talked up. his methods of
road building, and there got what he
was seeking, information to show' that
sand-clay was not the stuff.
Commissioner Wood came back with
the impression (not the proof) that
seme of the sand-clay roads in Hen
i jS 1
cit tii-y were in mucn worse cuuu,i- '
tii;n than those of Transylvania. '
Numbers of people "in. Transylvania
.have traveled the roads (rather than
go to the Hendersonville postoffice for
ro-rl building information) and they
report having found them in excel
lent condition. ,
1. R. Hamlin informs the News that
foi' the past several weeks he ha3 fre
fluently traveled the principal reads
of Henderson county and didn't find
any at any time that a horse could not
travel over in a "trot.
Commissioner Wood says that he
has not inspected the Henderson coun
ty roads nor has he consulted Engineer
Patton. one of the champion j:oad
builders of the South, whose expert
opinion of sand-clay roads was pub
hshed in the News on Feb. 4.
BOY SCOUTS NOTES.
The Scouts are busy preparing for
their examinations, many having pass
ed the tenderfoot tests and are now
working on their second class tests.
The regular meeting, o the troops
last Monday afternoon was conducted
hike when the sites of two old In
an villages were visited A large
number of arrow heads and beads
jvere found, many being in almost per
fec't preservation. - ,
. ft
A base ball team is being formed
among the Scouts with Harr:'s Sample
as captain. All the Scouts who desire
l try for the teams wll give their
names and . the position to' be tried to
Captain at once. A" firsthand
second team will be organized.'
ft ft - ' -'
The Boy Scout is doing a "good turn
Caiy," how about your, boy? " . -
. ft ft " - ;::-;. ... ' :
The Scouts are planning for great
-up at Camp Stony this spring- and
summer. ' ; . . ,
. .'. ft'", ft . : . r'
Camp Stony means recreation, 'edu
ction, healthful development under
Proper conditions. - ,
FAMOUS ACTOR TALKS.
Esterbrook, Mvle ! Actor, Gives Inter- J
.view on Pictures to Henderson-
Vv . ' Tille Pfeople. T
Howard Estabrook, noted movie ac
tor spent last Saturday in Henderson
ville at which time he appearedTat the
Queen theater and made-a short. talk
to the patrons of this popular theater,
Mr. Estabrook came to ' Asheville last
week from New York for a short .stay,
before he entered upon the duties oc
assisting in a new serial picture for
his company. In an interview Mr
Estabrook. said:
"I'm glad to meet the moving picture
fans -in Hendersonville face . to face. J
I came dbwn .here from New York
just a year ago to make some moun
tain scenes for a World Film produc
tion and after we finished at Asheville
we. went through Hendersonville to
Eat Cave. On our -way back I had a
little time to- wait for a train and had
lunch: at the Kentucky Home. They,
served so much to eat that I had to
leave half of it on the table, so l came
back this time to get the other half.
Anv one who sroes away from Ken-
Jucky Home hungry has. an appetite.
would, make the mammoUr cave
ITnntiirVTT l-iOr 00 - email 00 rharliii
a - v. :a.a v1
vsiW probably make all previous serials. j
look like small 'change.. It 'has the J
i most remarkable serial story. T have
IrVparf n H deeper than or.
tTle 'L?? iLl ,L
wun tne iews, v. r - r T. t i blinsr Ttelrt anr the Smokev -niotjntain
V; ; ,-Jyears when it gets thenotion. and -the
that mean somethin;
LU r T.rr. .
. . thev're irettin- higher everv
uie SvLJTr t
nQw t fif th lndustry the Uni. j
miit t t i ii j i . rfi r y iiv k i nil i riii. '
line au uaic - -'i w.. .
cost thousands to produce brought
before them for ten cents, and then
tbere are scenic pictures, educational
T.iptureR. literary masterDieces, chii-;
drens stones,, and even the whole ;
tfifcie is now DCiii- nimeu.. .iub..uu,
saying
'lYou,
can't ..beat- the. Dutch"
has- been changed to you can't
- .6
B0Y1AKES 68
USHELS COUi
YOUNG THOMPSON OF FLAT ROCK
PRODUCES A RECORD ON ONE
ACRE OF CORN IN COUNTY.
TO BEATjIST YEAR
Makes ReDort to' Supervisor of Crn
Clubs in Detail: Others Can do
This Well by Working.
Preston Thompson, the thirteen
year old school boy of Fiat Rock tells
how he raised 68 bushels of corn from
"u . .-,.
one acre, -une gtory is
r?et?j-:i and should be a lesson io
the
. "
many boys on the farm tnrougnoai me
COUnty. Wnat Young luvmyauu.
done' can be repeated by nearly every
member of the boys club of Hender
son county with only a little effort and
time on their part. Prof. R.A. Reed,
of the Flat Rock school, who by the
way Is not only one of the county s
leading educators hut a .real com
mnnitv worker, has' furnisned the
Hustler with a duplicate of the renort
furnished the supervisor of Boys Corn
inhc ot Raleiffh.
The report is as follows as told by
Young Thompson himself: - -"I
got TVIr. Stepp to measure off an
acre
of land for me. tie survejrcu
inRn vards.for an.acre ana uiu uu
ma mot
ff.nd his mistake until the attests meas-
ured it off and told me aDoui 11. v
"Thp soil was a clay loam ana u
about eight inches in depth and has a
Pi,v Rnhoil Last .year grass was
sown on this land and has been farm
ed as well as I can find out irom iarm-
exs about forty years. Tne oniy win- ; uves were jviiss uorotny Hoiiings
ter cover-crop on"" the land was a sod j i.yorth and , Mr. Preston Thomposn;
grass. Mr. E. R. Pinckney went with them
rtThe land was broken April 6th, I and the pupils of the High school and
about 10 inches and it was in good Pj of. Reed went with thenr.to the Flat
condition at time of planting. I 'Rock station. ; . : - , "
planted my corn on May 4th. I do not The Flat. Rock Sunday school is
know the name of the seed corn used. ' growing very interesting. There was
The Vows were s 4 feet apart. The ,'a large attendance fast Sunday and
plants were about 22 inches apart in several visitors .from - Tuxedo, East
drills. I used 100 lbs C. S. meal; 200 I Flat Rock Rock and Rev. Marr made
lbs. 10-4 400 lbs acid phosphate and a. splendid talk on Mutual Helpfulness
75 jbs. o'f nitrate of soda. I had . a which all enjoyed. - , -
medium stand and plowed and cultiva- There was prayer service at Mr. Bob
ted it 5 times. There were no pests i Kuykendall's last Thursday , evening,
oi diseases that damaged the corn eas t and will be at Mr. Steve Thomas' next
I -.'could find or anything that would "Thursday evening. ; ; "
damage the corn. .' - Y The play will. be -given Saturday
The average yield in thiri -county s , evening at the Flat Rock school house,
about "25 bushels per acre. My- yield j r- -- ; 'j
woo A? 9.2 a hnshels. ' Mr. E. L. Per- r . Mr; C. '5. Brooks and daughter. Miss
kins is the agent but has 'never visited
me.
I have carefully selected my seed for
voor iint it was imnossiDie to
Dlant a winter crop,
but r hope to
make a better vield next year and 1
did not have quite an acre this year; ,
'ir.-n nTiiAii'R up: '
MIHUUARfcu,
1 m m
DECIDED SHOCK CAUSED JIANY
PEOPLE TO LEAYE HOMES .
FOR THE OPEN COUNTRY
TURNS OYER LAMP
Other Sections of the Country Have
Similar . Experience ; No: Yery Big' pf
. Damage Reported Yetr , . .
J 4
onds was felt in Hendersonville , and
xu. jyatst aii uvci iuc ouuiu iw-wium.-.wj
press dispatches Mday eyenin
:-at
6:45. The shock was .so severe .that1
many of the residents of ' the county,
left their homes and soughfthe opeii
for protection. . The earth .shock is
thought to .have . been felt stronger up
near the Blantyre 'section than jn" any
other part 'of the county.' :'- :' 'I'
Was it Rumblinr ' ;:
PP don'tknothatwe-havvo
corked up volcanoes in this county, but
iuu uia ioiks an ivuovv awui meiu, .Aa -v
Rumbling Bald over Hickory NuUGap
way cuts loose and rumbels every few
mountain
once in a while.
If you don't. beliexe
it Just ask anv Beetree resident .and
- r -if
wi" tell you the mountain giveS ofZ
ke when it gets ready.-, ; J ;;
Lamp Thrown From Table. ,
t Abbeville, Feb. 21. A distinct earth
shock was felt in Abeeville; this after
noon about 6: 40, which lasted probably
;th.-rty - seconds. The. .shock was -.severe
enough to cause ceiling electric
: lights to swing in the stores, slif Fort
Pickens the shock was .the strongest.
I ciiusiiie two lamps in one residence to
be thrown from a table. - , - '
, : Dishes' Rattlpd. . Mv,
A l TxJ. ; .
WclockX .Tjherd"t?ero biri.-
tinct, snoens tne second cjeing me most
severe. Dishes rattled and walls'quiv
e: ed. The three shocks occupied about
one minute's time; No -'damage has
been heard of.
Windows IJattled.
Chattanooga, N Tenn., eb. 21. Two
earth tremors were felt at 5:45 this af
ternon. The - shocks rattled windows
and caused excited inquiries as to the
cause of the disturbance. Furniture
moved about perceptibly arid articles
ou desks were disturbed in office build
ings. Excitement was caused on Look
out Mountain and Missionary Ridge,
where- the shocks were reported to
LaVe been of pronounced intensity.
MRS. LETSON DEAD.
Mrs. tetson wife of Mr. C. Letson
died at her home on Ninth avenue,
Tuesday morning after a lingering ill-
l ness of more than a year. Sue. had
been confined to her" bed : several
months and death was not unexpected.
: She leaves a husband and many friends
, in the citv to mn,n hfir Tnss
TTiiTiAr"!' RPrx-iPPc! woro hold 4n flic
Methodist church on Wednesday after
noon. Rev. W. F. womble officiating,
and interment took place in Oakdale
cemetery,
FLAT ROCK NEWS.
Mr. Rufus Duncan, vho has been in
f Spartanburg S. C, for the past week
returned last Sunday. ;
Misses Nellie. Thomas, ' Dolly Jones
and 'Marguerite Thomas snent'Sundav
afternoon with "Miss Dollie ' Brook-
shire.
'Miss -Bell Jones went to Edneyville
last Sunday to visit relatives,
: Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Freeman spent
Sunday ' with Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Anaers, ,
j Messrs. Spurgeon Pace, - Dock and
uviacK Morgan iook - ainner with Mr.
ji ereaitn TeemarL last sunaay.
The representatives for the Flat
Rock school in the declamation and
recitation contest at the. Weaver col-
j iege went Monday. The representa-
.Xillie, have returned from & visit to
v ioriaa mrs. . urooKs .will remain
until April. ; :'.''.-
'. ; .;. :' :o: .. ' ; " ;
Miss Juno Israel has returned, from
1 a visit of several days at Rutlierfordr
; ton. - ; ?; . ; -
BOARDING HOUSE LIST.
Itosrd cf Trade Will Issue Folder Con
V taining, Hotel and Boarding '
- House Information.
y' To insure : listing Jn the hotel and
boarding house folder to be prepared
by the Board of Trade and distributed
throughout the South, by , various
- . v . ' -. ........
means, the . manager of a boarding
house or hotel must become a mem
ber of the Board of Trade before" his
or her house will, be recognized in this
publication. - This was the ruling made
at a meeting- of- the board Monday
nigut at the court house.
t;;:?Evey year the orgs
organization pub
lishes a: list of the houses in the city
c.d' county and it- has been a great
;ni,mbe'r cf the jists will .be mailed the?
jumei oiuces v line, iauiiuiejTi nuiiway
company in leading cities of the South
for distribution." ' '
It is yery important that the , hotel
and. boarding house keepers communi
cate" Wjth ; Secretary - W. .Marshal)
Bridges at once, so that therevwill be
no omissions made. s w- . - J
K MRS. LAWTON PASSES AWAY.
fox Health ; Livqi WiflSisteiV ;:
: i on Oakland Street, v V
V-;,V
Jirs, Marion Lawton. sister of Mss
onSn v. Mrnnnoneh . died p.t thA home
r; v.-..,.- , - - ,
I .P her sister on Oakland street early
- Thursday morning after a lingering
Iew York state and came. here with her
sister about eight ' years ago for her
.
health, 'ince living here she improv-
f sue grew gitxtauy, woijsb auu uci ucam
!.. . A 111 J 1 r, t
was not altogether .unexpected but
quite a shock to her relatives and
'fiiends.. ' V: '.. ' -v . ..
Funeral arrangements have not been
defmately made. It is understood that
RewR. N. Willcox wilj officiate assist
ed ; by ' Rev. T. B. Simpson. The de
ceased was a member, of the Episcopal
church. The. body will be shipped to
tbe former home "of .-Mrs. ; Lawton at
irberg On-the-Hudson, New -York.,.
ORSt PL
MERCHANTS CREDIT-RATING COM
PANY WILL ISSUE BOOK ON
EVERYBODY IN COUNTY.
WILL STOP DEAD BEATS
- . -
- v
Work of Compiling Book Will Begin
Just as Soon as Necessary Mer
chants Sign Agreement. .
W, P. Henry representing the Mer
chants Mercantile Agency, appeared
before the 'Merchants association Wed
nesday night where he succeeded in
getting the unanimous endorsement of
the association for an improved system
oi credit ratings;
The system has been in use for the
past 26 years and is considered by
Kiany leading business men of other
cities to be a perfect one. Those who
have been approached believe it will
work satisfactorily here. v -
All individuals and firms of the coun
ty will be listed in a book to be issued
every two years and will be rated ac
cording to their willingness and ability
to pay. Each will be put on record as
to the number of places in which he
trades and how he pays each firm with
whom he trades; being rated according
to his promptness in settling accounts,
as "prompt pay," "fair pay," "slow
pay." and "no pay." - .-:
Mr. Henry said that the persons who
pay'one or two merchants in order to
use them as references to obtain credit
elsewhere, and. then- fail to pay ; the
other merchants form the class .who
are- responsible for the greatest losses
in the business world. The object of
,x system to be introduced here is- xo
show up such persons in their true
making it necessary for them to pay
up, thus reducing the losses from
credit. -
When the trading public should in -
over some of the advantages v to - be
derived from the use of his company's-
methods, "is that their merchants giye
them a rating, so that , when they ask
iui ucuii an. mat 10 ucv-Baiji 10 tv
fer to the guide. ' ;; y -: V
'"Thereare many persons who are
not intentionally slow in paying their
accounts, but are neglectful, and when
they , understand that they, must be
rated they will endeavor-to secure the
best; rating possible and will become
more prompt in settling their accounts.
The 5; book; .is ; now published in
the ; greater ;- part - of. the United
State's andlis renewed every two years.
In ma:ny -States every hamlet is organ-;.1
ized under this system," Mr. Henry ex-
plained further.. '" .. ' .
. Supplements to the - guide are is -
sued every 60 days' in the form of a
secretary's' report, and the rating book
is thus kept up to date, '
mvmm
1
ID A flF Jfl .
I in iL ui iwiiiiy
fiiipn mm
. 11ILLLU UUU LIU
V-;.'.-"" , - j next summer . and - some of them ex
INTERESTING; ACCOUNT OF. .THE pectv to visit Hehdersonville," said D.
'LIFE AND CHARACTER OF THE I S.Pace who lias just returned from a
TiuoDPDinn nroTWorrr ; - A
DESPERADO MELDllUM. .
: ' '- . " - - l
SflN OF flPAI MAN I
w vii w w j t iv
: -c"f-" ; ::y-:t ;' :'
Co se Will be 1 Watched With - Interest
by Relatives and Friends in
Henderson County. r
An interesting account : of the life
and ; character of Robert W. Meldrum
vho is alleged to have shot and killed 1
John Bowen, the twenty eight year old rseason in considerable numbers.
son' of J. N. Bowen pf this city, ap-l EUK;1L LIBRARY MEETING' '
peared - in the Durango, Col., Demo- CALLED FOR MARCH 9TH
crat and is produced below., Thetriall i : ? - Vi; -';, -; -of
Meldrum, upon the charge of inur--JSditor Democrat: - - -der
in the first degree, is "how; in pro- , -Will you I please -make 'the" following
gressaiid will be watched .witL. inter- announcements, regarding rural libra-(
est by.' the many.' friends 'of - the' deceas-" rieain- your,' 'valued;, paper ? ; " ;
ed -cwho was raised-in; this ;county? and j ; A : ineetlag? will be held: at Dana
v-erit . West-'ivbeh- 3,
years" old. The-Hustler'carried an. ac-
count of the death of young Bowen
several years . ago.;.. '. . -;, ' ; ; . : -.
- The following is -what the: Durango
Democrat has to say:- . :
1 Dr. E. G. Condit of Silverton; , well
known throughout the San Juait Basin
arrived in Durango last night, on the
work train, after shbwshoeing down ;
the. Animas canon to Mile:-Post -477,?
below Cscade.Creek.:'t';v?yi-;. '
DrJ CJondit wilf leave this jnorning'
fcr Denver, and thence will go to Raw;-j
lins, Wyo., T where he-will attend -tne j
trial. of Robert W, Meldrum, famfliarly
known throusrhout the western, coun
Meldrum faces a charge of first de- !
gree murder for having shot and kill
ed "jChick" Bowen, a oowpuncher, on
the -streets of Baggs, Wyo, in Carbon
county,: in January 17, .1913. .; ? v
Meldrum has for many years been
one of the- most notorious "gunmen':
in the wst. . He has been employed'
by mine operators' and cattlemen in
several' states.'"'? :tr;"-'-''.
y utl met uicss. ; J.ic lis, oaiu uw ju. u
ed a number -of. men, and has shot si
gi eatmany others. . Although ' he is a
"h3ri man", when he ifi-nackins a cou
pie of big gunsr he is a contemptible
pnysicai cuwarq auu ib h,iiuu w
with his fists. - When; he was in l enu-
nae, ne swaggereuvaiuuuu mc uauiy
bullying the miners and citizens. ' But
one tTay, but at tht fair grounds... a
racehorse man stood Meldrum up in
a big crowd, dared him to "even start secured during the past week by Max
to , pull a ? gun," and then gave him a ' well Cash Grocery Hawkins Jewelrjr
wallop on the jaw that knocked him Store and the Mutual" Printing Com
2G feet. While Meldrum lay on the "Tpany in thediamond ring contest which
ground, the racing man. kicked, him closes next Tuesday, February 29,
around, and Meldrum took it like a -4 p. in. ;
dcg ' "- ' v 'The total votes will not be counted
But it is the profeesionsal,. .hired again until the contest closes -by the
"killer" that Meldrum shines, wnen
backed by mine operators or cattle- ;
men,, with accurance of "protection" j
frcm weak or crooked district attor- i
neys, Meldrum is tver reaay .10 snoot
men without a second's warning.
However, it is a matter of record
that when it comes to dealing with
men recognized as "deal shots,"v Mel
drum has always slunk away in the
back ground. - Meldrum always shoots
where he knows he can" "get away;
Vvitn it." , .ne never c-juk a uyui tiu5
chance in his life. - v v . , serenaded Mr. and Mrs. Frank Randal
Everyone m southwestern. Colorado insome proper fashion;. The crowd,
la hoping that. VBob"Meldrum. will be numbering about 50, with bells, horns,
hanged. It is general public opinion claxons. drums tin pans and various
that he should have been - swung fet other noise making instruments en-
the end of a rope . 30 years ago. v circled the house and upon a given sig-
Meldrum was for years a pal of nai the whole atmbsphere Was filled
Tom Hora, the dirty coward -who mur- witn noige r . r
dered poor little 10-year old Willie , Mr., and Mrs. Randall came out and
Nickel for a. price i paid by the cattle extended the entire, crowd- a most
barons of Wyoming, when Senator hea rty invitation to visit them in their
Warren and his .political--rallroading new home. . In-respons6 R; c Bennett
ring ruled Uhat state with; an 'iron representing the Baraca'and Phila-
hand,V ' 4 lt . . classes extended to the couple best
And Meldrum.is of the same stripe, vr;shes for a long; happy and prosper
Tom Horn "got his" in the noose, m married life .
Cineyenne m isuo, alter juc uaruia i
iriuivcu. liiixi miu a. uauauuu ut . ujo
countelss dastardly crimes, in the
.hope that by showing that he was a
genuine "bad man," he could get a job
of "killing off"- homesteaders in Mon
tanau'i ;: V ;
"Bob" Meldrum came originally, a'3
a "killer" from the Snake River cbun
try jn Wyoming, where he acted as a
)gUard" for Bulkley . Wells in Teiluride,"
tures imported by the operators, in the
Teiluride strike about eight years ago. f uoffee and sandwicnes will be serv
It was at that time that the racing e'd'at the rest room Saturady the 26.
maa knocked him 'dow-h and kicked
mm an over; iuo iaar eiuiuiuo. . ;.
( After 'Teiluride got too hot for him,
he beat it back to his old stamping
grounds . inthe Snake River country
ii Wyoming, where he again acted as
a "catUe detective.". - ;
On account of an outbreak of horsef
thieves in southern Wyoming, Mel -
, drum was brought ;in and located at Carolina.. ;
i Bagg the center - of the cow-country. J . ':''rS :. ' :o:
j where "he was given the double job Dr. and Mrs. Letson of Atlanta and
rQf deputy sheriff and town marshall, .H. R. Letson ofNorcross, left Wedne3-
drawing $100 from the county and $50 ' day, having been called to the city on
firm the town. .... ; . . .account of the illness arid death of
j "The " coming of such a notorious , their sister, MrsV M. C. Letson. .
lkilleras Meldrum put. the hcrse. . ' '.'. ... .'--.'l".1--..
thieves on' the " run. . Meldrum got Kinston has . about ... xompleted her
" ' ' ' ; " '" new. $100,000 , .postoffice building and-r
I (Continued on Page 4.) . will move in on th 22 of this month.
D. S. PACE TALKS OF FLORIDA,
j On a Recent Yisit He Finds CoaSltions
Booming! - Many Expect to j Visit
.the Mountains Next Summea.
"People inj Florida are talking al
ready " of ' coining "-to - the mountains
u ip to . sevei e i cities in xnat staie
while in Iorida Kr-Pace stop
stopped
at. Orlando' ' Lliami: Coca.
Stewatrs, -
Boynton,, Homestead, ; Fort Pierce
Kissimeeand JacksonvlUe.' - He was
attending to private business yet never
lost an opportunity to speak a goou
vord : for Hendersonville. He found
luisiness in a fairly properous condi
tion and stated that the business men
he talked to felt .viry encouraged
this season after about two years of
almost a failure. The northern tour-'
ists have -been going to Florida this
- 7t: 30 : p.' m. : for the: purpose; ot estab-
lishing: a; library.:
j; Also, af . meeting will be held at'
Reese Sehool c house ::i4on " Thursdav; ;
March "7: 30 p.' -m. for the same
purpose. . . V -
( f AH the people, and especially the
committeemen of the districts in which
these schools are situated are urged
to 'attend the meeting held in their
district, and take a part in this impor-
taut work. - -
-, ; THOMAS J. HYDER.
DIAMOND RING CONTEST OF 3IAX-.
-I WELL CASH GR0CERY,HAW- .
1:,:. JilNS MUTJAX .PRINT. CO. "
JOHN ' BISHOP WINS
.SpecialPrize Won for Most Votes Dur
jug uasi - f eeJt .Dy.liin llsJl"p
Contest Yery Close;
John Bishop was the winner of the
special prize offered for the most-votes
three judges.
There are only three in the' race:
Miss Charlotte Ersdn.
Miss Jane Truex. ' r
Mr John Bishop.
" Serenade ; Mr. and Mrs. IlandaL
A large number of the Baracas and
Philatheas of the FirstBaptist 'church
together with several of ;their friends
met at the graded school building Mon
day night and marched in a-body to the
homo Mr T j Tnrh6m hra thv
Band Rendered Music. .
; The-Hendersonville Brass Band fur
nished music for the Fruitland exer
xjisea on the 22nd, and notwithstanding
the fact, that only eight men went out
the music was real, good. The boys
are going to" get right down to work
from. now till summer ind if the pro
per support is given them Henderson-
; vilIe can have a first class band
At the RestvRoom.
i Mrs. Wiliiamss of Flat Rock will assist
4 nug.
Mrs. E. G. Elsom and daughterMiss
Elizabeth have returned from an ex
tended visit West.
i ; ' :o:
, Mrs. H, F. Fennegan , has returned
. from a visit of some length in South ,
h m uv i
i UlslV Uri I U S ILL
