V
.JVM) ;;m t ) Xiv
TON
EN
in
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, FEERUARY 24, 1916.
NO. 7.
SCHOOL BOARD MEETS
IN SPECIAL SESSION
CITIZEN ENLARGES TO
SIXTEEN PAGES 1
v i
m ' ' " 1
" 1 " ' V
n
V
. J " f
'i
Advisory Board Elected rrom Among
Prominent Business Men of
the City.
The City School board held a spec
ial meeting on Monday night for the
purpose of discussing matters rela-
. tive to the erection of the new school
building that is to be commenced as
soon as bonds are' sqld and a suitable
site tan be securedThe School Board
is more than anxious to serve tne peo
ple of the city in this most important
matter to the satisfaction of all and
to the ultimate good of all and with
a' view of doing the most good for
the greatest number of people
and in keeping with this spirit the
board have shown themselves to be
'' beyond question as to their fairness
in this matter in thathéy nave sel
ected a body of five of the represen-
tativé business men of the town to ad-
"vise with them and give them any
assistance within their power In the
selection and purchase of a site, the
letting of the contracta, and the' mas
ter of care and caution of really get
ting our money's worth for the city.
The board is to be commended in this.
Where there is unity there is strength
and in much counsel and care there
Is Wisdom. The citizens of Clayton
' Yi wideawake and aggressive. They
are noi ana win not oe sausucu wnu
Y. envthinir but the best and with no-
v' thing but a square deal. This is as
jt should, ,te. - A public office is a pub-
lie t-sst and a tmbiic enteróme is ana
-mm m
'jni be, of i
' interest to all the people
rJS 1 , nd public sentiment should eontrel
'"U such matters and sentiment ts got-
x "3h
tan by intelligent and honest inveeti
gation
The first thing seeming to confront
the board is the location. Several
places in the town" have been Aug
ésted, among which are the south
west ' corner of the city, just south
and to the right ' of the water and
light plant. Another is to the north
west, in the open Tlaee towards the
Morris Herzstein place. Another is
north of the First' National ' Bank,
buying two blocks and condemning
the street and locating it there. ! An
other is in the southeast part of the
.city, close to the residence of Mr.
Gill. Still another, and one that we
think should be considered long and
carefully before being passed up by
the board and committee, is the two
blocks just across the street east of
Mr. Easterwood and Mr. Spring, con
demning the street, giving two blocks
for the building and grounds, making
the building face right down Main
street. This is a new suggestion to
us and seems to meet with much fa
vor. Maybe that there is something
against this location. There will be
about every one. Regardless of it all,
we feel that public sentiment in this
regard should come to the surface
and that before the site is selected,
and not after. Don't hide your light
under a bushel until the site is n greed
upon an! then come out with a hip
talk about "the best place in town"
and try to embni-rnss the school board
and the building committee, who have
tried hard, without compensation, to
give you service.
The committee selected by the
board was Mr. Otto, Chairman; S. M.
Osborn, Earl Messenger, R. T. Man
sker, and W. A. Henderson. J It is
not probable that there is another
group of five men in the city that
would more nearly cover every phase
f the building and site proposition
an the group of men chosen and they
are all well and most favorably known
each in ':is particular, capacity. With
all respects to all people, it seems
Xo us that we are getting off on the
nght fot and that we should have
the very best that money can buy
and thnt at the right place in the
city. The Citizen offers its hearty
support in every way possible to the
board and committee for the best to be
had for this, the bent city oh the
map.
The appearance of the Citizen this week is only another proof
of the Power of Advertising and the faith the merchants of this
up-to-date little city have in the use of Printers' Ink. Clayton is
recognized, at home and away from home, as the "Best City of its
Size in the Country." It is deserving of its title. But who makes
the city?,. The wideawake, the aggressive; the up-to-the-minute cit
izenship and business men of the City. These men are worthy of
your patronage. They have your patronage and are proud of it.
Why? Because they have used Printers' Ink, and have gone right
to the customer, the consumer, and presented their case, to him,
directly, personally, in his own home, when he had the time to give
it honest and earnest consideration. When the cares of the day
on the farm or in the shop are done, when the mind is at rest, when
it is in its most receptive mood, then father, mother and the chil
dren gather round the home circle, the Home Paper, the welcome
weekly visitor, is in hand and every page, every column is read
with interest. Right here, Mr. Business Man, is where you get in
your work. ' Shears; Sawbuck & Co., have nothing oyer you when
you meet him on a common level. You get the preference every
time. Why? Quality, price, service, accomodation, you have them,
all whipped to a standstill. You carry your customers when cash
is short; others demand cash. You help pay taxes to educate his
children; others pay, we suppose, but not here, and we derive no
material benefit from it. Yoii help build towns, roads, light and
water systems, bring the conveniences of the larger centers to his
very door, thus greatly enhancing the value oí his farm or other
property. . ' ; . ' '
Here, Mr. Merchant, is where u get in your work and Mr.
1 Buyer and Mr. Merchant getVtogether oh mutual ground. Your in
terests are mutual and the matter of continual contact and ac
quaintance maintained by the regular meeting with each other
through the columns of your Weekly Newspaper is the thing that
turns the trick and defeats the craftiness of the Catalogue House.
The Merchants of Clayton are up-to-date and aggressive.
MR. R. W. ISAACS MAKES TRIP
IN HIS "CAR- (?)
On Saturday last, so the reporter
says, Mr. Isaacs land wife started out
on pleasure bent, in their new Ford
Car. Now there is some dispute as
to whether or not a Ford is a Car
or whether a car is a Ford. Some
say that they are neither. Others
dispute it. Bob says he doesn't care,
it's the kind that go and don't for
get to come back. There isn't a thing
strange about Mr. Isaacs and wife
taking a joy ride, considering that
the day was fine as spring and that
it was much more pleasant to be out
than indoors, but there were other
things that were to happen that were
to mar the peace of mind of the lit
tle party, and it was thuswise: When
Mr. Isaacs purchased his car, (Ford),
he was told by Mr. Wikoff that he
should use a preparation for the ra
Jiator which would not freeze, as the
matter of draining the car every
night was quite troublesome and the
convenience of having the car always
"full," thought Mr. Isaacs, is worth
while, too. The preparation was put
in the car, which preparation con
sisted of about 'stccn parts "prepar
ation" and the balance water. Now
this water was just like any other
water, it escaped from the car, in
course of time, in the form of steam,
and left the "preparation."
Sunday happened to be about the
'course of time," and after having
'iken the joy ride, Mr. Isaacs dis
covered that the little Ford (ear) was
'frothing at the bits" and he proceed
ed to relieve the tension by removing
'ho "head piece," upon which the lit
tle monster proceeded to belch forth
vehemently all sorts of "preparation
(minus the water), said preparation
coming suddenly and elaborately in
contact with Mr. Isaacs' Sunday
clothes. His wife was entirely too
close an observer of what was going
on for immediate comfort and con
venience, and she, too, had her best
bib and tucker completely besmeared
with the contents of the radiator. Mr.
Isaacs was compelled to repair at
once to the cleaning and pressing par
lor with his Sunday suit and to avoid
standing in a barrel while his clothes
were being made ready, he proceeded
to the attic and brought down a suit
that was purported to have once been
worn by him, (?) and a hat that no
one in the world would recognize him
in and went about his daily duties, on
Monday, very much in disguise. The
plight of Mrs. Isaacs, says Mr. Isaacs,
is not to be commented upon at this
time. It is reported on very good
authority that since the- accident, Mr.
Isaacs slips in homes after dark and
leaves before daylight for fear his
wife will catch him about the place.
o
No. 20, Local Freight, Goes in the
Ditch
' Local freight, south bound, No. 20,
was derailed about six miles out of
town on Wednesday night, from cause
as yet unknown, but probably from a
broken wheel. Nine cars left the
track, several of which were turned
over, hoters badly smashed and in all
it was a general smashup of heavily
laden carsmost of which were loaded
'.vith coal, A wrecking crew was at
once summoned from Trinidad, and by
five o'clock Thursday morning the
track was sufficiently cleared to re
sume traffic. North bound passenger
train due here at 5:32 did not make
the run but the mail was brought to
Clayton during the evening, from Tcx
line, on a local freight. J
COURT HOUSE NEWS
i
There are none.
Don't pay your taxes yet We don't
need the money.
The tax rolls will soon be back from
Santa Fe for the second time and you
will not need to worry about that
fat bank roll much longer. County
Clerk Juan J. Duran issued license
to wed, on the 21st to Elvin Fones
and Faree Chiles, both of this city.
Pastor Gaines tied the knot.
There is talk around the court
house of there being in existence a
combination in restraint of trade be
tween the county clerk, Juan J. Duran
and the Methodist Minister, Rev. A. P.
Gaines. Two weeks ago, there were
Tour wed.lin.-s, last week none, this
week, the first day in the week,start
ing off the same way as week before
last, but the conspicuous absence o'.
such an occurence last week gives rise
to this suspicion. ' We think that it
will bear investigation.
E. E. Veedor of Las Vegas, a prom
inent attorney and member of the
Aetna Building and Loan Association
is spending the week in town and
much of it around the court house
in the interests of the association.
Supt. H. H. Errett made official'vis
its at the Barney and Plainview
schools the first of the week, and re
ports work progressing, nicely.
Deputy County Treasurer F. C dt
Saca made a business . trip to the
ranch Sunday, returning Monday.
S'.-.criff Crumley made a business
trip to Raton on Sunday, last, return
ing Monday.
The Commissioners Court has had
i very "dry" time during the week,
their usually busy quarters ' being
wholly depopulated.
Clayton Merchants All Get Together 1
in The Citizen and Make Great
Boost for the Town. '
In this week's issue of the Citizen '
we started out to represent through '
its columns in one Great Get-Together
advertising scheme every enterprise
in the city. If we have missed anyone '
we do not know it, and if any are not
represented, either in local or display '
advertising, we heartily regret that .
you missed this great opportunity. .
This has been one of our fond hopes '
ever since coming to the city and to
say that we appreciate this is to make
it entirely too tame. We are simply
"tickled to death," as we sometimes
say, for it is positive proof that we
are all coming to realize that in unity
there is strength and that if we are
all for one thing strong enough we are
most certain to get it. We are for
a bigger, better Clayton and to
achieve this end we must all make '
a concerted effort to spread the glad '.
tidings of our manner and-methods '.
of business to the world and give them
a most cordial invitation to come in
and inspect our wares, to get acquaint
ed with our manner of treating our
customers and the up-to-date methods
of doing .business. We must come to ,
you, Mr. and Mrs. Buyer, with the
gospel truth of a "square deal" and
convince you that, quality considered, .
your money will go as far with us as
it will anywhere. And, aside from
this, that we will grant to you every
accomodation consistent with safe
business methods, which means much
to every man in time of need and
should not be lost sight of in times
of prosperity. 1
The business men of the town need
the co-operation of the people of the
country. The country people need the
co-operation of the citizenship and
business men of the town. We must
work together. We must feel that our
interests are mutual. Neither can
well thrive without the other.
Clayton has the country and smaller
towns surrounding and tributary to
her sufficient for the making of a real
City. To the country for miles around
we solicit and need your constant sup
port. To the smaller towns, we need
your support as a jobbing center,
which this, our little city, is destined
to be. We have several firms already
in our city who not only have prac
tically all of their goods shipped in
car lots, but that can give you as
good jobbers' prices as you could get
elsewhere. In this respect, as a job- .
bing center we are yet in our infancy
but with a united effort and a square
deal to all comers, we are sure to
forge ahead and develop into the best
jobbing center between Denver and
Amarillo.
There is no apology for the exist
ence of the knocker. The only man
really worth while is the booster. A
.;as bag will go up of its own accord,
and "bust," but it takes power to lift
a load. Exert your portion of the
energy necessary to make the old town
hum and by so doing you will be sure
to gather of the good things that
are the sure result of honest, concerted
effort. Your local Newspaper is with
you in every legitimate enterpirse and .
hopes to always warrant your hearty
patronage.
u y
Master Clyde Marker, one of the
young' lads of our City high school
had the good fortune of finding a
"wallet" with twenty-five or thirty
lollars in money in it Monday even
!ng at the corner in front of Palmer
& Wherrit's store. He hastened at
once to the Citizen office to ask assist-
anee in finding the owner.' Be fore
we went to press, however, the owner
was located. This may not seem
worthy of mention, but we have a
hunch that there are plenty of full
rrown men, physically, that would
not have shown the sterling qualities
of young Mansker. y
1-
