mm
DAILY EDITION
VOL. Vf., No. 181.
OIUVTH IMSH. iOSKMIIXB CXJUNTy, OIIEGO.V, TIIIKS1UY, FEB. 24, 1010.
WHOLE XOffJEB 1678.
Xo Other Town in o World the Size of Grants "Pass Has a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service.
FRENCH TROOPS
.
UlbbUbb 7 ESPEE COUNSEL
Bars WiD Be Let Down in
tie Senate Friday, and Ail
Opposed to 'the Wilson
Policy Will Air Their Views
(lit United Press Leased VIr.)
Washington, Feb. 24, Though no
apparent true marked tit day, both
the pro-admluuftr&Uon force tad
those wanting a modification of Pre
sident Wilson's policy toward the
'German armed merchantmen decree
ni'tutied making ready lor a renewal
of their conflict tomorrow.
Having blocked every effort to ob
tain consideration of a retolutlon for
a warning to cltlxens not to travel
on armed belligerent ships, congres
sional loaders agreed tw.lct down
the bara somewhat tonu"?r, '
Then the senate wt'w ,M nator
Oore.whoee efTorta to ,V ntotoftence
today were thwarted ;LJ,',,"on
from Senator Brand :t, uSu rob
atly the house will lUen to aieechea
la favor of warning, auch aa Core
wants.
Administration leaders agreed to
tills concession to the opponents of
Wilson, aa It Is "believed the situation
ran now.be controlled regardless of
dlscnsslon on the floors of congress.
After his defeat Senator Gore
prepared a statement, which said In
part:
"I do not believe that public opin
ion would Justify a war with Ger
many on account of the ' decree.
Americans hnv fArhnii
sail on armed merchantmen, but they
ought to be willing to forego this
right for the public' good
SCUTTLE
GERMANS
CAPTURED
STEAMER
(By United Press Leased Wire.) bad re-orcipled the latter territory.
London, Feb. 24. Taking no The Paris communique told of ap
chance of haying their prise, the palling losses on both sides. In an
British steamer WeBtburn, snatched attack on Samogneux, Paris said the
from them, tho German crew In Germans were thrown back, while In
charge of her dashed out to sen to- a new onslaught against Beaumont,
day from Santa Crux in tho Canaries, seven miles northeast of Verdun, the
scuttled her and then escaped In Germans lost many men.
boats, "according to Santa Cms din-1 Both Berlin and 'Paris Indicated
patches. , that the struggle on the 25-mile front
Beforo the vessel was sunk the ,hnd continued without cessation dur
prlsoners aboard her were put safely ; lng the night,
ashore. , Conceding that the i German 42
Tho dispatch said that the German centimeter guns might reduce Vcr
commander scuttled her because the dun to ruins, critics declared that the
Spanish authorities had tinted they Gormana must plerco a remarkable
would return the vessel to Its britlsh system of defensive field positions be
owners If v it Interned. . Fearing that 'fore they can actually begin a drive
warships off the Canaries would
ture the boat if she tried to escapo,
the commander, took the ship to a
point within the three-mile limit and
sank her. lie then roturnod to Santa
Crux and will probably Intern.
Bpnin would have been forced to
return tho ship to the owners In case
of Internment, inasmuch as she has
no treaty with Germany which would
permit Internment.
The Westburn, a 8,B00-ton vessel,
put Into Santa Crux for repairs, with
a s,mall prlxe crew and more than
200 prisoners from British ships.
The Impression here Is that the
Westburn wn capturod by the same
Gorman raider which recently cap
tured the Appam and sent her Into
Newport News, Va.
Included in the prisoners were
members of the Clan McTavlsh cVew,
said to have been captured hy the
German raider, supposedly , the
Moewe, at aibout the time of the
Appam capture. Indications are that
the same raider raptured other ves
tals whose crews were aboard the
Westburn.
(By United Press Leased Wire)
Washington, Feb. 21. A possible
compromise In the Oregon-California
land grant cases was suggested to
the house public landa committee
today by J. II. Blair, general counsel
for the Southern Pacific railroad. His
proposition will bo submitted upon
arrival of the railroad land commis
sioners next week.
Blair reaffirmed that the railroad
is entitled to 92. BO per acre and the
timber on the lands Involved,-and
he claimed that congress can not
again vent the title as Senator Cham
berlain proposes, though It may take
the lands under right of eminent
domain and then dispose of them.
KAISER SEES CROVVF!
PBIHCE 111 ACTION
'nv ITDd Press Leased Wire.)
London, Feb. 24. Under the yre'i
of the kaiser, the German crown
prince has forced his way to within
gun, range of the fortress city of
Verdun.
Berlin claimed today the Teutons
had captured towns as far aa Samog
neux, only six miles from the north
ern outskirts of the fortress; Paris
admitted Samogneux had been storm
ed, though It claimed the Teuton at
tack there had teen checked.. (W
Berlin told of enormous gains;
Paris admitted some. -. ' '
Losses on both sides have probably
mounted to the great total of 60,000
men In the few days elnce the prince
began his onslaught. And still the
combat rages along the 25-mlle front
north of Verdun, with no signs of
I "6 f
The German official statement
claimed the Gormans had cleared the
way fctvfore them In
capturing
Brabant-eur-Metiso, Haumont, 8am
jOgneux, Jood and Herbe, together
I with the forested district north and
northwest of Beaumont.
Paris admitted the loss of Brabant-isur-Meuse
and part of the Canres
wood, four miles eastward, after an
nouncing yesterday that the French
cap-itoward Parts,
Talk of such a drive is current.
The crown prince's efforts are said to
be only the preliminaries to a des
perate movement on the French capi
tal. - :,"''
But in his onward march the
.crown prince has yet to cope with row
after row of strongly . fortified field
positions, protecting Verdun
from
both the front and rear.
In the earlier assaults several
whole corps of Gormans were slain.
It Is predicted hore that the German
losses will be so great as to defeat
the present offensive, though the
French, too, have lost heavily.
Seeking Divorce
Bruce Stephenson has commenced
action in 'the circuit court for the dis
solution of the matrimonial bonds
between ihlmsolf and his wife, Mary
Stephenson., Cruel and inhuman
treatment , Is the allegation upon
which action Is ibrought. The couple
was married on Christmas eve, 1910,
and two sous, one now four and an
other Iwo, have been born.
Hesse Leaders to Confer With lie President Tcnight, zzi
Will Advise Ha That the Body Is is Favor cf Excld-
: fag Citizens cf the IHtd .States Frca Belligerents'
Ships Rather Than to Make War on Gercaay
Washington, Feb. 24. Speaker
Champ Clark, telephoning the White
House late this afternoon, asked to
be allowed to bring Majority Leader
Kltchln and Chairman Flood of the
bouse foreign committee for a con-
Terence with the president as soon
as possible. " 5
The conference probably will be
held tonight. The trio' wilt advise
Wilson that the house Is overwhelm
ingly In favor of excluding Americans
from armed ships of the belligerents
rather than going to war with Ger
many or any other nation over the
armed merchantman decree.
Washington, Feb.T24, JVhen con
gress met today Indications were that
President Wilson had won the first
skirmish lu his fight agalnat a pro
posed congressional warning to
Americans to keep oft armed ttellt
gerent ships.
An effort to adopt such a resolution
will be suppressed and there will be
no necessity for his appearing be
fore the members with a message on
the German-American situation, as
administration authorities had pre-
,Hcted..(WJLeadera were . so confident
that the situation was well In hand
that Chairmen Stone and Flood of
the senate and house foreign com
mittees did not arrange to confer
with the president over the warning,
as they had planned. .
Flood declared the house com
mittee would not report any warning
resolution; Stone, having avoided
the opportunity tor consideration of
the warning queatlon through taking
r
a recces Instead of adjournment, need
only to guard against oratory on the
subject. '
Ambassador von Bernstorff said to
day 'he had not yet received instruc
tions from Berlin as to his course
toward the American refusal to con
cur in the Teuton proclamation of
war against armed enemy ships.
Objection by Senator Brandegee
prevented Senator Gore from getting
a hearing on his bill to prevent
Americans from traveling on armed
ships. Unanimous consent was ne
cessary to allow Gore to speak.
Despite the fact that a rupture had
been prevented, at least temporarily,
administration leaders were uneasy.
"I regard this as the most serious
matter I have ever had to help face,"!
GERARD HAY TAKE THE STUUP IN
SUPPORT OF THE ViLSOfl POLICIES
(By United Press Leased Wire.)
Berlin, Fob. 24. If republicans
attack President Wilson's submarine
'policies In the forthcoming political
campaign, American Ambassador
Gerard may stump the United States
in support, of the executive, it was
broadly hinted today.
He plnnB to visit America 'before him that America would never take
tho Juno convention, and if he finds strong action against Germany. In
Wilson under lire for his dealings turn, Vienna Informed Berlin or this
with Germany, he may explain to report, and Foreign Secretary von
tho country a few things about the Jagow told Gerard about it.
submarine controversy about which; Then to add to the complications,
the people do not know. a man from Illinois, with credentials
Gerard also expects to urge a tariff from Bryan, arrived at Berlin, met
at least high enough to shut out many officials and assured them that
cheap products, with which he Is con- President Wilson was writing the
vlncod Europe is preparing to flood submarine notes for "home consump
tive United States after the war. He Hon." ' , ir;
may also advocate a tariff commis- Gerard's views as to these moves
slon, to which the president already , were given to Colonol House during
is committed. his visit here as the president's per-'
I Tn Rfldltion to those moves, the sonal envoy. -envoy
may explain why Germany Gerard is convalescing from his
thought at the beginning of the tub- recent accident. ' . '
said one. "We have met It thus far,
and I hope we can continue to do so,
but It la bad situation."
Bow strong the opposition to the
president is was evidenced from the
tact that auch men aa Speaker Clark
and Senators Overman and Cummins,
favor a warning. The senators have
decided, however, not to push any
action pending receipt of Berlin's in
structions to Ambassador von Berns
torff.',' ; The belief that it will not be ne
cessary for the president to take his
case to congress in a message was
strengthened by Chairman Flood's
announcement that he had received
reassuring advices from the state de
partment. The department after
ward denied, though, that it ba"d re
ceived any new. word.
Congressman McLempre, who fos
tered a bill to force a warning no
tice, issued a statement. In part as
follows: -r' "i- v :;-
. "Since the Declaration of Paris In
1856, abolishing privateering, arny
ed merchant ships have had no status
in International law, except as aux
iliary cruisers. I have not met any
lawyer able enough to Indicate the
chapter on which Is based the alleged
right of merchantmen to carry de
fensive armament"
, Senator Gore appealed to Vice-
President Marshall, who ruled that
his hill was not admissible, aa Sen
ator Brandegee objected. A resolu
tion accompanying the hill asked that
Americans a'betaln from the right of
traveling on armed ships of the bel
ligerents, while the bill itself pro
posed that passports for such travel
be withheld.
Several senators are opposed to
the president's course, but they favor
Informing him of their sentiments
prlvatoly, rather than to have an out
break on the floor. 4
Senator LaFoIlette, en route here
from Wisconsin, will aid In dissuad
ing the president from maintaining
his present position, but falling in
this will not support that position.
Congressman Foster introduced a
substitution tor the McLemore reso
lution which would "authorise" In
stead of "request" the president to
issue a warning. '; The McLemore re
solution proposed that any one dis
obeying the warning should sacrifice
the right to American protection.
i marine controversy that America was
."-bluffing" in her demands. --. .
1 Gerard tried for some weeks to im-
press German officials with the serl-
.ousness of the situation. Meanwhile
the then Austrian ambassador,
Dumba, Informed the Vienna foreign
office that Secretary Bryan assured
Paris, Feb. 24. French troops
have evacuated the village of
Brabant-sur-Meuse, eight miles north
of Verdun, under the heavy attack
of the German crown prince la his
drive for Verdun, the war office offi
cially admitted today, '
The French also lost a part of
the Caures' wood, four miles east of
Brabant, after reoccupying it yes
terday.. ; f j
Elsewhere, however, said the com
munique, the Germans were halted.
Alter capturing Brabant, the Ger
mans were halted In storming Samog
neux, only six miles from Verdun.
Both sldee lost heavily.
The German center made a fresh
attack on Beaumont, seven .-; miles
northeast of Verdun, hut was check
ed, said the communique. There the
German sacrifices were especially
great'" 'rj'i. ;
Infantry attacks marked the night
hours along an eight-mile front from
Brafbant through the Qaurea' wood to
Beaumont, while artillery flashed
and roared along a 25-mlle front
' French airmen raided Mets and set
Are to the gas plant
LEE FAUT OIICE A
RESIDENT HERE
Lee Faut, the aged Chinaman who
was brutally murdered at Roseburg
Tuesday, 'was a former resident of
Grants Pass,' and is remembered by
many residents of this city, . There
is now a belief that the old man was
killed by a white man, instead of
having been the victim of the tong
war. China Sam, a Roseburg China
man pioneer, has the following to
say of Lee Faut:
"Lee Faut was one of the best
known and beet liked Chinese resi
dents of southern Oregon. He was
recognized as a Christian among the
Chinese, and t do not believe he was
affiliated with either of the tongs
which are now engaged in war at
various points on the Pacific coast
Faut and I were friendly and we
uia iiuKea retrains mauers or in-
terest to people of our nationality.
I have known Faut for more than 15
years and In all that time I never
imurn ill ill nmrrriiin -nnvrniniv v n i n r
v.
wouia teaa me 10 c-eueve ne was
member of either tong. He was
man of quiet disposition, an ener
getic worker, and attended strictly
to his own business. Faut lived In
Grants Pass for a number of years,
and while there accumulated several
thousand dollars. He later sold his
laundry there and went to Portland,
where he remained for some time.'
While a resident of the latter city j tomorrow night one of the fastest
Faut lost much of his money through basketball games of the season will
bd speculation. Leaving Portland, at the r,nk wnen the Wgh
Faut again returned to Grants Pa8S, '8chool meets Phoenix. The Phoenix
and later came to Roseburg. He had team Is said to be very strong and
lived here about three years, and dur- ha9 von a laJge nuraber , game8
lng that time had conducted a laun- thl8 year . They maklnit . tonr
dry on Rose street. Faut was a man
of charitable dlsnositlon. and eave
his funds freely to those In need, j Tne reguiar church game wilt prob
Only a few years ago a Chinaman by ably be play(Hl ,before gchool
the name of Hop Lee became afflict- Rame, Th6 preaWerians meet the
ed with disease and was compelled Christians to see which one will be
to retire from active life. He was delogated to the last place. The
without funds and he appealed to church game8 are now at a red hot
Faut for assistance. Faut not only and eaoh team determined
provided him with medical assist- t0 wjn
ance, but paid all funeral expenses As flnance8 ot tb8 game are
following his death." he8Tyi a large crowd hould be pre
11 ' ( sent to witness the games. The high
By Auto From Thigene school team is in fine shape now.
Rae Calvert, who has fceen attend- Mr, Milllken has been sick, and Mr.
lng the state university at Eugene, Westcott has taken charge and haa
has returned to Grants Pass, driving put In some good bard licks. The
down in his Ford auto. He expert- game will be called early,
enced little trouble in coming " 1
through except that the road through To the State Reformatory
Pass creek canyon was still pretty County Judge Gillette went to
soft and he had t6 add about one Salem on No. 14 this morning, hav
man power to the power ot the en- lng In charge Wm. Mead, who was
glne In a number of places. From Implicated in the theft of elothing
Roseburg to Grants Pass he found .from the residence of A. A. Porter,
the road In good condition and made Mead waa committed to the reforma
the run in good time. tory for a period of one year.
PilSIJf
ram:
n n i ii r
UK Ut
Fortresses at Verdn ttzj
Entered hy Kaisers G:zj
in Gigantic QuuviY0 .To
ward tie Fre:ch fe-'J
Lorfdon, Feb.- 24. The German
crown prince's gigantic offensive
around Verdun is the beginning of
a renewed drive toward Paris, ac
cording to Amsterdam advices from
Berlin today. '
With thousands of guns blasting
the defenses, the plan is to wreck the
Verdun fortress and then begin a
smash towards tha French caniLiL
132 miles a. way.
Berlin -was reported to believe that
should Verdun fall it would mark the
beginning of the end of the war.
Fully a half million of men are
engaged In the struggle in the woods
to the north and northeast of the
fortress, while extremely fierce artil
lery and Jnfaatry moves are taking
place on both hanks of the Mouse.
The Amsterdam dispatches 'told of
streams of wounded Germane bead
ing into German? durlnr the oast
two days, the fruit of the new cam
paign. The Teuton looses, as report
ed -by Amsterdam,-during the few
days or tne offensive have been the
largest In five months. -
A Paris dispatch to the Tlmea,
while emDhaslzlne the imnortanre nf
the conflict, said that the tremendous
German losses assured defeat of the
Verdun campaign', because a victory
would involve too great a sacrifice.
If the gains claimed by Berlin are
true, her soldiers are now approach
ing the outer .forts of the town. One
more drive equal to the last may al
low the German 42 centimeter guns
to open upon the fortress of Verdun
Itself. . '
The Berlin statement yesterday
claimed capture of nearly six and
uu mile8 ,a Verdun region.
. m-nT nt lha nm..
!mrtntl, tft . ,en,h . tm
;Th- finHrA 1rmt
jmllee wMle at la8t KporU the Ger.
mans were about 10 miles to the
, north of Verdun. ;
a I
L.
PHOENIX TO PLAY
, vnv .nrf win t k tn
.
HIGH
SCH
AD
