fif Iff
J. A. MENZIES, Editor and Publisher. "Here the Press the People's Rights Maintain, Unawed by Influence and Unbribed by Gain." For All That Is Right In The Republican Pai I
Vol. XXXIII, No. 47 31 YEAR: YALE, St. Clair County, Mich., THURSDAY, February 24, 1916 $1.00 Per Year, In Advance
0
KT1MNGTEUK1
Lyw
After the
Honeymoon Start Right!
Young married couples starting: off on life's journey should open a
bank account at once. Nothing makes more for independence than a bank
account. After it is once started you'll be surprised how it grows. It
gives young people a feeling of security.
Start With Us Today
Yale State Bank
Princess Theatre
Advance Program
Tuesday, February 29
Bessie Barriscale and Enid Markcy in -The Cup of Life"
Both Have the Same Chance.
One becomes a happy mother, wife of a poor laborer. The other can't see
the drudgery of the home and chooses "the easiest way" to happiness.
Both drink of
"The Cup of Life"
You'll enjoy this powerful drama one of the famous Mutual Masterpictures
, you have read about.
10 cents and 15 cents
Regular 4-reel shows on Thursday
and Saturday.
Oc Books. 39c
We have over 100 titles of the
on
opuar
in i .
IX av
mm.
which we will sell at above
price during balance
of February
MATHEWS & WIGHT
Yale's Leading Druggists.
WePrint
Noto Heads.
Bill Heads,
Letter Heads,
Envelopes, Etc.
PRELIMINARY STATEMENT
TO THE ELECTORS AND TAXPAYERS OF THE CITY
OF YALE:-
In response to numerous inquiries that have been made, in regard to the
operatiou of the Light & Water plant for the past year, and as the answer to
the, same may have Bome influence in moulding tlie opinion of the voters at the
coming Primary Election; also in vindication of the present management and
administration, the following foreword to the forthcoming annual financial
statement of the city is respectfully submitted lor your consideration.
Total amount paid for new equipment for the present year $2234 68
Total amount paid for new equipment for year 1914 (as per report) 992 4G
A difference to be credited to the present year of
LIGHT & WAT Eli STATEMENT
Cash on hand March 20, 1915 '.
Keeeipts from all sources for 11 months of
the present iiscal year
.$1242 22
$ 1119 80
12525 64
During the past 11 months the amount spent
for equipment for the plant, inside and
outside was $2234 (IS
Other expenditures of all kinds 7729 89
Total expenditures for 11 months $99G4 57
Cish balance to the credit of L & W fund
Against which is to be charged interest
ou Ji & W bonds
$13045 84
$ 99G4 57
$ 3081 07
1012 50
Net cash balance to credit of L &, W
fund Feb. 20, 1910
$ 2608 57
In the estimation of those in charge of the plant the inventory of merchan
dise and material at the plant will be approximately the same as last year.
All bills and invoices for the entire fiscal year WILL BE 1'AID at the regular
council meeting March 6th. The L & W collections for March is conservatively
estimated at $1000 00, and the expenditures for the current month will not ex
ceed $700 00, which will increase the above credit to $3000 00 or better.
If the present plans of the Council and Commissioner are carried out, this
will be the first year in the existence of the L & W plant that both the interest on
the L & W bonds and the maturing bond of $1000 00 has been paid out of the
receipts of the plant; also the first year since the city has owned a team that
the city has been paid for hauling the coal to the power house, and it is con
fidently expected that when all ot the above mentioned items have been taken
care of that there will remain a balance of upwards of fifteen hundred dollars
to the credit of the L & W fund at the close of the liscal year, Mar. 20th, 1916
The aboye results were obtained despite the dikk calamity which stared
the L & W plant in the face one short year ago, that was sure to happen (ac
cording to some of the wise prophets) should the management of the plant be
changed at that time. Al! of which is respectfully submitted.
Signed, UEUT McDON ALU, L & W Commissioner.
VOTE NEXT WEDNESDAY!
Someone touched a match under the
local political pot this week and it sure
is boiling some. From present indi
cations it will be "straight" republican,
ae all the petitions filed were signed
by men claiming to be aililiated with
that party.
Geo. Mclntyre and Herb Hennessy
are up as candidates for mayor. Mr.
Mclntyre is the present incumbent and
has served the city well. He will
probably be re-nominated Wednesday.
For city clerk Bert McDonald and
James 11. Moore oppose each other.
Clyde Adams and J. 1. Rosenthal
want to guard the city's strong box
and whichever one wins will make a
good city treasurer.
N. li. Herbert and 11. C. Martin are
out for the nomination for supervisor.
Justin Cavauagh is the only candi
date up for lustice of the peace and as
Hill Campbell says, he will probably be
nominated.
Petitions have also been tiled for the
following: 1st ward, alderman, Bert
Welch; constable K.O. Welch; 2d ward,
alderman, 'J . J. Minnie, W. H. Ernest;
constable, William Hoy; 3rd ward, ald
erman, W. U. Fletcher, Doughty Mid
dleton; constable, Hobt. Murray.
We want to say that the present ad
ministration has done its duty for the
best interests of the city and the voters
should remember next Wednesday that
there is only one primary ballot in the
field and it is for a Republican ticket,
so be sure that every man you vote for
is a real Republican.
REVIVAL MEETINGS
At Mechanic Street Church of Christ from
February 24th to March 1st
Our revival meetings are now in full
swing. A splendid interest is being
shown and 1 am hoping that our Yale
friends will give the evangelist a good
hearing. T. J. White is a strong man
and a scholar of no mean ability. He
is a graduate of Bethany College, West
Virginia, with both the A. B. and A. M.
degrees. . He is a master of the Greek
and Hebrew languages. He has trav
eled through nearly every state in the
union, adding to his knowledge and
platform ability, treasurers invaluable.
His sermons are masterpieces In thought
composition and truth.
Sermon subjects for the next week
are as follows:
Thursday 'The Sew Testament church'
Friday, "A Model Conversion"
Saturday, "A String that Led to Salva
tion" Sunday, a.m., "Christ's Flan for Spread
ing Ills Kingdom"
Sunday, p.m., "The New Birth"
Monday, "Substitutions"
Tuesday, "The Select Few"
Wednesday, "The Connecting Link" a
chart sermon.
A Big Shoe Sale
On Saturday next The Yale Shoe
Store Inaugurates a big reduction sale
on everything in their big line. The
sale will last for two weeks, and it will
pay you to read their page ad in this
issue of the Expositor, and then take
advantage of some of the bargains of
fered. Edighoffer Bros, have been doing
business In Yale for the past six years,
and by fair and square dealing, have
built up a large trade. The people of
Yale and vicinity know tnat any sale
that this firm puts on la bona fide and
we bespeak for the firm an enormous
business duriDg the coming two weens
Attend the Primary Election next
Wednesday and place a cross
before the name of George Mc
Intyre for Mayor.
The High School Tattler J
Editor Julia McMahon
GHADE NOTES
Wesley Bartley has entered the 4th
grade. ,
Arabella Cole is back in the first
grade room.
Alice Carroll is back in the first
grade after a few days illness.
Curt Haweghan is back in the Kin
dergarten after a few weeks absence.
The 3rd grade children have been
learning songs about Oeo. Washington.
There will U) on exhibition at the
"Country Fair" some specimen writiDg
from the 7th and sin grades.
The 8th grade has started the study
of "Snow Bound" and find this an ap
propriate time for this classic.
IIIOII SCHOOL NOTES
The Seniors are wonders,
The Juniors are plunders,
The Sophomores are blunders,
But thu Freshmen "oh thunder."
The English Lit. people are studying
"Hamlet."
Carrie says, "there is no joy in living
without a Ford."
Bertha Ciyne entertained the Seniors
Thursday evening.
Caesar people are struggling through
prose composition.
Anna is frank in professing her be
lief in "preparedness."
Neil is very liberal with his horse and
cutter. Isn't he, seniors?"
Miss Kettlewell visited the High
room on Tuesday of this week.
Mr. Drouyor left Tuesday evening
for Detroit to attend the N. E. A.
We wondered why Frank D. appear
ed so nervous Tuesday afternoon.
The American History class is pre
paring a debate on "preparedness."
Miss Ritchie's division is to give a
patriotic program Friday. Everybody
come.
Dr. Steele gave a talk before the
High room last Friday afternoon on
"Alcohol and Health."
A number of teachers and pupils
from here attended the "Birth of a
Nation" in Fort Huron last week.
Leta was determined she could walk
around in a circle without turning
around until she tried the experiment.
This question was put before the
juniors: "Is life worth living?" and
Kathryn answered "It depends on the
liver."
"Lives of Sophomores remind us,
We can make our lives sublime;
And by asking foolish questions
Take up recitation time."
Roseburg School Notes.
Washington's birthday exercises giv
en by the school, February 22nd, was a
grand success. The room was prettily
decorated in red, white and blue. The
costumes pointed toward Washington's
time. Miss Wood, the teacher, received
many compliments on the masterly
way the program was rendered.
The songs, drills, readings and im
personations were all heartily enjoyed
by the audience which consisted of
three visiting schools and many parents
and friends in the district, about two
hundred in all.
The influence of youth was so preva
lent that, before departing, one old man
was actually seen trying to throw a
snow ball.
HAY PRESS Ann Arbor Columbia
steel frame, belt power, 17x22 hay
press for sale. Inquire of S. B. Barr
routes, Yale. 12-
THE PRIMARY
SYSTEM CARRIES
Only About One-third of the Vote
of the City Turn Out
On Friday of last week the question
as to whether or not Yald would adopt
the primary system in the nomination
of all elective olJices in the city was
voted upoth The total number of votes
cast were 110, of which 71 voted yes
and SO no.
Yale is always in the fore front when
ever any movement that tends to prog
ress is advocated or advanced. Our
people do not believe in lagging be
hind, and every citizen to a man is
ready and willing to do his part for the
best interest of our city.
Primary day is March 1st, when nom
inations for mayor, city clerk, city
treasurer, justice of the peace, super
visor and one alderman and one con
stable in each ward will be voted upon
by the different parties, the candidates
having the greatest number of votes
on their respective party ticket will be
the nominees, and the ballot will be
made up and voted at the spring elec
tion April 3d.
Petitions of the different candidates
are now being circulated and signed
and later will be filed with the board
of election commissioners of thetity.
Williams Kaercher.
The home of Mr. and Mrs. Lewis
Muneer of East Oreenwood was the'
scene of a pretty wedding at 2 o'clock
Tuesday,' Feb. 22, when their daughter
Murial Williams became tne unae or
Mr. John (1. Kaercher of East Green
wood. The house was prettily decora
ted in blue and white. The ceremony
was performed in the presence of about
forty friends and relatives by liev. D.
A. Vandoren. The bride was gowned
in white satin charmeuse with rose
buds and pearl trimmings. She carried
a shower bouquet of bridal roses.
The maid ot honor was Miss Harel
Brown of Port Huron. Her gown was
Alice blue silk with white lace and
carried a bouquet of pink roses.
The groomsman was Harold Kaer
cher, brother of the groom.
Miss Beatrice Worden, neice of the
groom, was the ring bearer, carrying the
ring in a rose. Just previous to the
ceremony, Kuth Cheesrnan played the
wedding march, entitled. "Heaven
ward." After the ceremony a three
course dinner was served. Following
the dinner all retired to the parlor and
were entertained by music and singing.
The bridal couple left amid a shower
of rice, on a short wedding trip, and
will be at home to their friends after
March the tenth, at East Lynn. The
bride wore a traveling suit of green
broadcloth and a black picture hat,
trimmed in pink and white. They re
ceived many beautiful and costly pres
ents. Their many friends wish them a
happy and prosperous wedded life.
The guests from a distant were, Mr.
and Mrs. D. Harris, Mrs. O. Allen, Mr,
and Mrs. Fred Irons, of Lum, Herbert
Blank of Capac, Mr. and Mrs. C.Harris
Mr. 'and Mrs. E. Harris of Lakeport.
Minstrel Show.
The following program will be given
in Central Hall, on Friday evening,
March 3rd, by the Athletic Association
of the Y'ale High Schools
Solo Kawley Hallman
Heading . . Mi6s McCall
Drill Ten O iris
Solo Clifford Uutton
Duet.. .Dick Staley and Ida Mae Allen
Heading Lois Huffman
Solo Mrs. C. S. Cochrane
Minstrel High School Boys
Reserved seats on sale Monday night
Feb. 28, at 7.-00 o'clock standard. Ad
mission, 15c and 25c. Dance after the
program.
Announcement
To the voters of the City of Yale:
Through the solicitation of my
friends 1 have decided to enter the
race for the nomination of City Treas
urer on the Republican Ticket at the
Primary Election to be held Wednes
day, March 1st, 1910. 1 will thank all
who believe me competent to perform
the duties to assist me In securing the
nomination and election to this office.
Thanking you in advance for what
support you may give me, 1 remain,
Sincerely yours.
J. 1. Rosenthal
Notice
Mrs. Menziea' division of the LBS
of Presbyterian church will hold a rum
mage sale on Saturday, March 4th, in
Fred Taylor's store. Come In and look
over the many articles of clothing, etc.,
which will be sold for almost nothing.
Something to suit everybody.
THIS MAY INTEREST YOU
If you suffer with pains In your back
or side, stiff and sore muscles and joints
or rheumatic aches, or have symptoms
of kidney trouble such as putty swell
ings under the eyes or sleep disturbing
bladder ailments, you should know
that Foley Kidney Pills have benefit
ted thousands in like condition. II. T.
Hennessy. adv
TP HflTT AT THE LABEL on
I 11111 this week' Expositor
I I 1 1 I ( &nd ee lf you are in
I I I I I l arrears. A number of
I 1 1 I I I I our subscribers who
J"J w w notfced our requests
to square upv have either called or sent
the money in by mail. There are many
others who are vet in arrears. We will
feel verv grateful to those who answer
this call for cash, at earliest conven
ience. Please remember that cash is
required to operate a newspaper as well
as any other ligitimate business.
It Rests
With You
Entirely-
If you're to enjoy the comforts of inde
pendence and success. The means lie
right in your own hands.
Success is seldom the result of chance. Luck does not
cut as big a fiaro as you suppoto. You won't get anywhere by
earylag tno man who it comfortably situated.
Success Comes To Him Who Works and
Saves With a Purpose
No matter what you earn, mto part and bank it. Small
beginnings lead to opportunitiM for miking money.
Itake vp your mind to lave. Start an account at thi bank.
' . V'rxl II I
s
w rar
l
-k, w torn
YALE, MICHIGAN
OFFICERS
.Vice Pre tdnt
W.F.RuV,viceP$uifnr EF.Fcad.Cashter GRAda'ms
Does Your Watch or Clock
Need Repairing?
If so, bring it to us and wo will put it in good shape. Wo
haro had the experience and can do your work right.
Our Motto: Neatness and promptness.
I r-. nu) ruiiw, - l cue, jLUIULI. 2
Before the Winter
Winds Begin to Blow
and the real coldiweather Is upon us, don't you think it
would be a good plan to lay in your winter's supply of
Hard or Soft Coal
We handle nothing but the best grades and would
be pleased to have you send us your order. Your
neighbor is probably a pleased customer of ours. Why
not you?
PHONE 14
1 m
...Wharton & Company...
3
82rVo SPECIALIZK in GUOCE1UES OK QUALITY.
.w
NEVER TIf
100
telling the people about our strictly fresh
line of "quality groceries," and from our
steadily increasing business we are led fo
believe that the residents oF this vicinity
appreciate our efforts. Why don't you dot
as your neighbor does, and
Let your slogan be-"TayIor's for Groceries."
Phone 49 - Prompt Delivery - Yale
We have the Largest List of Subscribers in Northern St. Clair Co
