A.
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
4'
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
liiJiUUUL ilU U
IF MILLION ENGAGED
IN TERRIFIC STRUGGLE
Thousands of Great Guns Pouring Shells Into French Posi
tion at Verdun-Its Fall Would Mean G t ans Would
i Make Another Drive at Paris-Streams Wounded
Pouring Back From Battle Front-Germ f Make Im
portant Gains at Many Points
London, Feb. 24. The German crown pri 3 gigan
tic offensive around Verdun is the beginning of a renewed
drive toward Paris, according to Amsterdam advices
from Berlin today.
With thousands of guns blasting the defenses, the plan
is to wreck the Verdun fortress and then begin a smash
towards the French capital, 102 miles away. Berlin was
reported to believe that, should Verdun fall, it would
mark the beginning of the end of the war.
Fully half a million men are engaged in the straggle
in the woods to the north and northeast of the fortress,
while extremely fierce artillery and infantry moves are
taking place on both banks of the Meuse.
The Amsterdam dispatches told of streams of wound
ed Germans heading into Germany during the past two
days, the fruits of the new campaign. The Teuton losses,
as reported by Amsterdam, during the few days of the
offensive, have been the largest in five months.
A Paris dispatch to the Times, while emphasizing the
importance of the conflict, said that the tremendous Ger
man losses assured defeat of the Verdun campaign, be
cause a victory would involve too great a sacrifice.
If the gains claimed by Berlin are true, her soldiers
are now approaching the outer forts of the town. One
more drive, equal to the last, may allow the German 42
centimeter guns to open upon the fortress.
The Berlin statement yesterday claimed capture of
nearly six and one-half miles in the Verdun region, at
many points of which the Germans penetrated to a depth
of two miles. The entire front covers about 25 miles,
while at last reports the Germans were about 10 miles to
the north of Verdun.
The crown prince has been appointed commander in
chief of the Alsace and Meuse regions.
London, Fob. 24. Under the eyes of
the kaiser, the German crown prince has
foccd his way to within gun range of
the fortress city of Ver.lun.
Berlin claimed today the Teutons had
captured towns as fur as Samogneux,
only six miles from the northern out
skirts of the fortress; Paris admitted
Samogneux lud lieen stormed, though
it claimed the Teuton attack there had
been repulsed. Berlin told of enorm
ous gains; Tails admitted some.
Losses on both sides have probably
mounted to the great total of 00,000
men in the few days since the prince
began his onslaught. And still the com
bat rages along the 2.) mile front of
Verdun, with no signs of weakening.
The Gorman official statement claim
ed the Germans had cleared the way
before them in capturing Brabant-Sur-Meus,
Hauniont, pnmogneux, Jood and
ilerbe, together with the forested dis
trict north and northwest of Beaumont.
Losses Are Appalling.
Paris admitted the loss of Brnbant
Sui-Meuse and aptt of the Caures wood,;
four miles eastward, after announcing;
vesterdnv that the French had re-occu-
piid the latter territory. The offioiol
communique told of appalling losses on
both sides. In nn attack on Sumog
neux, Paris said, the Germans were
thrown back, while in a new onslaught j
j . - j- - -L l li-l - -. . - I
Aba Martin
Look out fer th' feller yho says
money is a secondary consideration.
Tipton Hud M"s thnt jedgin' by our
isfes th' brewers 'II be fer woman
6iU'j'ia;;e before another year.
against Beaumont, seven miles north
east of Verdun, the Teutons lost many
men.
Both Berlin and Paris indicated that
the struggle on the 2.1 mile front had
continued without cessation during the
night.
Conceding that the German 42 centi
meter guns might reduce Verdun to
ruins, critics declared that the Germans
must pierce a remarkable system of de
fensive field positions before they can
actnallv be"in a drive toward Paris.
Talk of such a drive is current. The
prince's efforts are said to be onlv the
preliminaries to a desperate movement
on the t rcuch capital.
But in his onward march, the crown
prince has yet to cope with row after
row of stronglv fortified field positions
protecting Verdun from both the front
nnd rear.
Jn the earlier assaults, several whole
corps of Teutons were sUin. It is pre
dicted here that the German losses will
be so great as to defeat the present of
fensive, though the French, too, have
'ost neavily.
Trench Driven Back.
Paris, Feb. 21. French troops have
evacuated the village of Brnbant-Sur-
Meuse, eight miles north of erdun, un-
der the heavy attack of the German
crown prince in his drive for Verdun,
the war office admitted todav
The French also lost a part of the
Caures wood, four miles east of Bra-
! bant, afte rre-occupving it vesterdav.
Elsewhere, however, said the commun
ique, tho Germans were repulsed.
After capturing Brabant, the Ger
mans were repulsed in storming Samog
neux, only six miles from Verdun. Both
sides lost many men.
The German center made a fresh, at
tack on Beumout, seven miles northeast
of Verdun, but was repulsed, said the
communique, There, the German sac
rifices were especially great.
Infantry attacks marked the night
hours along an eight mile front from
Brabant through the Caures woods to
Heumont, while artillery flashed and
roared along a 25 mile front.
Fresh airmen raided Metz and set fire
to the gas plant.
London, Feb. 21. Reports that a
Japanese fleet is in the Mediterranean
are unfounded, the United Press was
authoritatively informed today.
Kaiser at the Front
Copenhagen, Feb. 21. Kaiser Wil
helm has arrived at the Verdun front to
encouruge his men, said Berlin advice
to.lny. He has addressed them daily
urging that they conquer Verdun at any
cost.
Claim Great Gains.
Berlin. Feb. 21. Detailing further
successes in the mighty fight for Ver-
(Continued a rage Three.)
S. P WOULD COMPROMISE
ON FORFEITED LANDS
Washington, Feb. 24. A pos
sible compromise in the Oregon
California land grant ca-ses was
suggested to the house public
lands committee today by J. P.
Blair, general counsel for the
Southern Pacific railroad. His
propositoin will be submitted
upon arrival of the .mv.road's
land commissioners next week.
Blair reaffirmed that the rail
road is entitled to $2.50 per acre
and the timber on the lands in
volved and he claimed that con
gress cannot again vest the title
ns Senator Chamberlain pro
poses, though it may take the
lauds under right of eminent
domain and then dispose of
them.
ISTICE
Peace Envoys the Cause
District Attorney Tells
Them Vhat Is Coming
Portland, Ore., Feb. 24. Chinatown
suddenly rc-sunibod its bustle and stir
today. There was no tong war. Blinds
were raised and doors opened where for
10 days they had been closed tight. On
the street appeared numerous blinking
Chinese who had remained hidden in
dark cellars or barricaded rooms since
the war started.
Hop Sing tong men chatted on street
corners with Bing Kongs, Bow Leongs
and Sitey Sings. None of them car
ried revolvers. It was a suddenly trans
formed Chinatown.
The hatchet was buried last night.
For ."0 days it will actually be a crime
for a Hop Sing to shoot a Bing Kong or
vice versa. At the end of that time, if
the "Henry Fords of the tong war,"
who arrived from San Francisco yester
day, are unable to patch up a perman
ent peace, the gunmen will get bad
into their trenches nnd begin shooting
one another again from dark alleys and
doorways.
Great ceremony attended the signing
of the armistice agreement. Many
speeches were made, and huge break
ers of prohibition liquor consumed.
I.ee Way, president of the Hop Sings,
nnd Jung Bong, chief of the Bing
Kongs, made the longest and most pa
cific speeches and impressively signed
their names and placed their seals at
the bottom of a sheet of chicken tracks.
Wong Wok Leo, president of the San
Francisco peace society, presided. At
his right sat District Attorney Evans,
a much respected guest. Evans also
made a speech. It was not at all pacific.
it went something like this:
"All I've got to any is that if you
fellows don't stop shooting one (moth
er, every tongman in Portland will land
in the county jail, and most of you
will go to the penitentiary as accessor
ies to some of these murders that have
been committed."
Was Held As Prize But Fear
ing to Lose Her Dashed to
Sea and Sunk Her
London, Feb. 2b. Taking no chance
of having their prize, the British
steamer Westburn, snatched from them,
the German crew in charge of her
dashed out to sea toduy from Santa
Cruz in the Canaries, scuttled her and
then escaped in boats, according to
Santa Cruz dispatches.
Before the vessel was sunk, tho pris
oners aboard her wjre jut safel?
arhoro.
The dispatches said thit the Ger
man commander nuttled her because
tli3 Spanish authorities had hinted they
would probably return thj vissel to iti
British owners if it interned. Fearing
that warships off the Canaries would
capture tho boat if she tried to escape,
the commander . took the ship to a
point within the three mile limit and
sank her. Jta then returned to Santa
Cruz and will probably intern.
Spain would have been forced to re
turn the ship to the owners in ease of
internment, inasmuch as she has no
treaty with Germany which would per
mit internment.
Tho Westburn, a 3,500 ton vessel, put
Liflto Santa Cruz for repairs, with a
small prize crew ami more tnan zoo
prisoners from British ships.
The impression here is that the West
burn was captured bv the same ucr
man raider which recently captured the
Appnm and sent her into Newport
News, Va. Included in the prisoners
were members of the ( Ian McTavish
crew, said to have been captured by
the German raider, supposedly the
Moewe, at about the time of the Ap
pam capture. Indications are that the
same raider raptured other vessels
whose crews were aboard the West
burn.
p mm siezes
INTERNED SHIPS
OF TEUTON ALLIES
Takes Possession of 36 Aus
trian and German Steam
ers in the Tagus
FIRED NATIONAL SALUTE
AS FLAGS WERE CHANGED
Declaration of War by Ger
many and Austria Expected
Immediately
Lisbon, Feb. 24. Austria and Ger
many are expected to declare war upon
Portugal immediately as a result of the
Portuguese navy's seizure of 3(i Aus
trfian and German steamers, some of
them large, lying in the Tagus river.
Foreign Minister Costa announced to
day that the vessels were confiscated
because Portugal needed transports and
feared the Teuton ships would escape to
the Atlantic and possibly raid vessels
of the entente allies. In this connection
he cited the fact that the German
steamer Ockenfels had escaped from
Funchal, Muderia island.
Though Germany and Portugal have
not been at war. Portugal has openly
sided with the allies and has aided the
English against Germans in German
Africa.
The confiscation is expected to force
a break between Portugal and the cen
tral powers, but officinls are confi
dent that Spain, friendly to the Teuton
empires, will continue neutral at least
for the present.
The ships were seized by Captain Re
go yesterday afternoon. He stripped
the Teuton colors from them, ran up
the Portuguese flag and then fired a
national salute.
Street Car Turns Turtle
No Cause Can Be Found
Portland, Ore., Feb. 24. Six people
are hurt today, none of them seriously,
because a street car toppled over while
slowly rounding a curve at 11 o'clock
last night.
Railroad experts, after an investiga
tion declared it was a mystery what
caused tho car to turn over. The grades
were right, the track clear, and the car
wasn't going fast. Two other similar
accidents have occurred ln-the past
year.
WOMAN'S CONFESSION
TIGHTENS NET ABOUT
"BADGER" SYNDICATE
Seattlo, Wash., Feb. 24. Charged,
with intending to blackmail a wealthy
mining and clubman of this city, Louis
P. Sichler, arrested in connection with
the aleged operations here and "in
other Pacific coast cities of an exten-,
sive "badger" syndicate, was free to
day on $5,000 bail.
Prosecutor Lundin, who issued the
complaint against Sichler, asserts that
he is tho cameraman who obtained
photographs which were used later in
the alleged blackmail operations.
In sixth paragraph, please make it
read "in an attempt to extore 2,000
from tho wealthy mining man,"
eliminataing Silverman's name.
Deputy Sheriffs Brewer and McGil
livrny arrested Sichler immediately
after a warrant had been issued by
Lundin. They had been searching for
him for more than 21 hours and had
orders to pick him up without a war
rant. Sichler refused to discuss the rase
other than to say he knew nothing
about the "blackmail syndicate," but
admitted he knew both Isabel Clay
burg, now under arrest in Los Angeles
and Lillian Peterson, who is said to
have loft Hillings, Mont., within the
last week for Los Angeles.
Sichler is a lawyer, private detective
and former financial agent, who lives
at 327 East RMth street. He is the
owner of considerable property.
He is charged with blackmail in
"ha''''ng threatened to connive at, nnd
publimi a libel" in an attempt to ex
tort $'-',000 from a prominent mining
man.
The latter is said to have refused to
pay Sichler anything and "to have
threatened to deal summarily with any
one who attempted to force the issue.
Mrs. N. whose confession to
Deputy Sheriff Hally ha been the
basis for the action taken against the
alleged blackmailers, says she never
received any money for her alleged
part in the job.
Deputy Sheriff Hally left early this
morning for LoJ Angeles to bring liacK
WILLAMETTE TOO COSTLY
Washington, Feb. 24. A re
port of the' army engineers to
congress today disapproved of
the improvement of Ventura,
Cal., harbor with a breakwater.
Auother report said that Im
provements proposing to con
struct a six foot channel be
tween Oregon City and Corvallis
on the Willamette river is inad
visable at present, as little def
inite co operation was promised
and the project would require 20
locks at too much expense.
THEY DIED HAPPY
Dahlonegn, On., Feb. 21. Three men
were reported here today to have met
death by drowning in a well of "moon
shine" liquor some miles from here.
One Who Refused to Stop Is
Followed by Shower of
Bullets and Buckshot
Los Angeles, Cal., Feb. 21. Having a
theory that the "private car" bandits
who are terrorizing automobilists may
i have a lurking place in the Calubassas
I country, up the San Fernando valley,
Sheriff Cline today considered sending
an urnieu expeumon mere to iry aim
route them out.
The "pirate car" appeared again
last night. This time it operated on
Venice boulevard, just outside the city
litnitH. Motorists reported four masked
men jumped into the middle of the high
way holding rifles anil sawed off shot
guus ready, ordering their intended vic
tim to halt.
j One young ninn, whose name is with
held by the authorities, instead of stop
jping nt command stepped on his accel
jenitor and rushed past the four thugs in
j a great burst of speed, fnstantly the
pirate enr dnsncd into the boulevard
from a place of concealment in a grovo
and took up the pursuit. The young
man said when he attained a 'speed of
53 miles nn hour the bandits appeared
unable to keep up and gradually foil
behind, showering his machine with bul
lets and buckshot.
WILL GO ON DRY DOCK
New York, Feb. 24. The French lin
er Espagnc, whose passengers were
warned against sailing on her, will not
depnrt for Bordeaux but instead will go
into drydock.
Agents deuied that the cancellation
was due to the warnings, nnd explained
the hull needed scraping.
Passengers may said on the LnFny
ette Saturday or have their inonev re-
1 funded.
Isabel Clayburg, who is to be used as
a witness against Sichler.
lie hopes also to locate Miss Peter
son and another young woman wanted
in connection with the case, who is
thought to be in I.ns Angeles.
According to word from Los Angeles,
Miss Clayburg has secured a writ of
habeas corpus returnable rebruary 23.
She is also said to havo received in
formation from Seattle that wealthy
alleged victims have given ossurnnce
they will not appear as witnesses in
the case.
Will Tight Extradition.
I.os Angeles, Cal., Feb. 24. A strong
fight against extradition to Seattle foi
trial on a blackmailing charge will be
made by Miss Isabel Clayburg it was
declared today.
An application for a writ of hnbeas
corpus has already been made. It m
returnable before Judge Frank R. Wil
lis next Tuesday. At thnt time Sherr
Cline bust appear in court with his pris
oner and show cause why she should not
be released.
The fight is also being carried to Sac
ramento. The girl 's attorneys have com
municated with Governor Johnson's of
fice, announcing their desire for a hear
ing on the extradition matter. When
the officer arrives from Seattle w1'
extradition papers, he mny have to par
ticipate in a lengthy legal battle to
prove that there are good grounds for
believing the woman guilty, before Gov
ernor Johnson sanctions her removal
north.
Police here today are looking for an
other young woman who is wanted ns a
witness in tho ease, There are no
charges against her. She disappeared
just after Miss Clayburg was arrested.
Two men who vanished jint after th
arrest are also sought. Officers search
ed their apartments and found their
wearing apparel scsrrered around, but
no sign of them.
Miss Clayburg says who does not know
them.
Although Miss Clayburg Is not mak
ing any morn statements, her attorneys
frequently call attention to her original
statement just after her arrest, in which
she mud she was absolutely innocent.
D SPU
1H
REACHES ACUTE STA
Large Faction In Congress at Odds With President Wilson
As To Course To TakeInsist On Americans Being
Warned Not To Take Passage On Armed Merchantmen
Republicans . Stand by Wilson's Position Fear War
May Follow Breaking of Diplomatic. Relations
t HMHM MSSMHMISMSBN
Washington, Feb. 24. When congress met today, in
dications were that President Wilson had won the first
skirmish in his fight against a proposed congressional
warning to Americans to keep off armed ships. An effort
to adopt such a resolution will be suppressed, and there
will be no necessity for his appearing before the members
with a message on the German-American situation as ad
ministration authorities had predicted. Leaders were so
confident that the situation was well in hand that Chair
men Stone and Flood of the senate and house foreign
committees did not arrange to confer with the president
over the warning as they had planned.
Flood declared the house committee would not report
any warning resolution; Stone, having avoided the oppor
tunity for consideration of the warning question through
taking a recess yesterday instead of adjournment, needed
only to guard against oratory on the subject.
Ambassador Von Bernstorff said today he had not yet
received instructions from Berlin as to his course toward
the American refusal to concur in the Teuton proclama
tion of war against armed ships.
Objection by Senator Brandegee prevented Senator
Gore from getting a hearing on his bill to prevent Amer
icans from traveling on armed ships. Unanimous con
sent was necessary to allow Gore to speak.
Washington, Feb. 2?. With a largejtion would mean repudiation of tho
ami clamorous faction in congress at
odds with President Wilson, the admin
istration today neared the crux of Ger-ninn-Aiuerican
relations. The situation
admittedly was the most criticul sinco
the dispute arose over the Teuton proc
lamation of war n armed merchant
men. Tho president has taken drastic, meas
ures to check in incipient revolt against
his refusal to warn Americans that they
must keep off armed merchantmen and
ho was expected to give the faction in
favor of such steps an ultimatum at his
scheduled conference with Chairman
Stone and Flood of (he congressional
foreign committees.
That ho would deliver a message to
congress asking support against recog
nition of tho Teuton armed merchant
men decree was still forecasted, should
Ftcrlin instructions to Ambassador Rem-,
storf prove to be of n dilatory and un
satisfactory nature. The administration
also was considering having secretory
of State Lansing send Stone and Flood
a letter pointing out why Americans
iinvc a riulit to travel either on nrmod
or unarmed merchantmen. In this con
nection it was recalled that Secretary
of State Bryan sent a letter to Stano
last year when congress threatened to
pass a resolution for nn embargo on
exportation of munitions.
situation is urave.
Receipt of Germany's reply to Ameri
ca 'h refusal to recognize the armed
merchantman was expected soon, wmio
the administration was resigned to tho
belief that it would bo unsatisfactory.
The next move in the situation would
bo a vigorous warning to the Teutons if
their new campaign endangered Ameri
cans. The delicate situation in which tho
administration found itself today be
gan Monday night when C hairman
Stono and the president clashed in a
conference at the White House. Stono
is understood to have voiced strong op
position to the president's stand, whilo
the president in turn is reported to
have replied firmly that he would not
alter his course.
Among the difficulties confronting
President Wilson was tho fact th it
both Senator Stone nnd Representative
Flood favor a warning to Americans to
keen off armed ships rather man to nss
war with Germany through a break in
diidomitic relations. It is believed too
thnt the maturity of both foreign com
mittees favor the Bame idea as tno
chairmen. Representative Webb nnJ
others had prepared petitions asking
the president to issue a warning. And
it was reported thit a canvass of con
gressionnl sentiment would be present
ed to tho president ns soon as possible,
perhaps today.
Republicans Back Him.
Friends of the president feared that
perhaps it would be necessary for him
to depend upon republican members to
stave off passage of the warning reso
lution. Representative Cooper, of the
house foreign committee, suiil, however,
that many minority members stand
with the democrats in favor of a warn
ing. On the other hand, Senators Calling
er. Lodire and Soot and other promin
ent republicans sustain the president's
position. Minority Mann in also wun
the executive.
Tho administration is trying hard to
postpone action by congress, and those
supporting the president neuevo tnai,
in the meantime, the excitement will
subside. Tho executive's friends point
ed out that passage of A win ning resolu
IAN
uc
president's policy, and would embarrns
if not actually kill his efforts to mam
tain peace nnd friendship with Ger
many, and ftill preserve American
rights at sea.
The White House received messages
from many points today. Muny ureed
passage of a warning measure, while
others approved tho president s stand.
Former Secretary of State Bryan has
taken no part in the agitation for a
warning, his friends said.
Representative McLemore and others
were prepared to bring up the warning
question in open debate, while Senator
Gore insisted upon his right to make a
speech for a warning.
Gore Is Ruled Out.
Gore appealed to Vice-President Mar
shall, who ruled thnt his bill was not
admissible after Brnndnge had object
ed. A resolution accompanying the hill
asked thnt Americans abstain from the
right of traveling on armed ships, while
tho bill itself proposed that paraport
for such travel be withheld.
Several Bcnators are opposed to the
president's course, but they favor in
forming him of their sentiments, priv
ately, rather than to have nn outbreak
on the floor.
Senator I.nFollctte, en route here
from Wisconsin, will aid in dissuad
ing the president from maintaining his
present position, but failing in this, he
will not support that position.
Kepresentiitivo Foster introduced &
substitution for the McLemore resolu
tion which would "authorize" instead
of "request" the president to issue a
warning. The MeLemore resolution pro
posed that anyone disobeying the warn
ing should sacrifice the right to Amer
ican protection.
President Wilson was said to hav
telephoned Flood last night during a.
conference of the committee members
after hearing of the McLcmoro plans.
Despite the fact that a rupture had
been prevented nt least temporarily, ad
ministration leaders were unniuty.
"I regard this ns the most serious
matter 1 have ever had to help face,"
said" one. "We have met it thus far
and I believe we can continue to do no.
rbut it is a bad situation."
How strong the opposition to the
president is was evidenced from thi
fact that such men ns Speaker Clark
and Senators Overman and Cummins fa
vor a warning. The senators have derid
ed, however, not to push any action
(Continued on Tago Five.)
THE WEATHER
Oregon: Fair
tonight and Fri
dny; easterly
winds, u
uru-.i tj-uiTi-h y-ajr-i i"tir i 1 n m i I M
