THE WEATHER FORECAST. '
Fair to-day ; to-morrow increasing cloud
iness; little change in temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 34; lowest, 174
Detailed weather, mall nnd nrarino reports on po IC,
tin.
It shines for all
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 183.
NEW YORK, WEDiZSDAY, MARCH 1, 191j. cmhi
, lfllfi, hi the ftm Frtotltip nnrf I'uhHfhini .1 unriiifioii,
PRICE TWO CENTS.
If i nnAirmirm
LAND DECREASE
OF $32,295,000
IN MANHATTAN
Assessment "Rolls Show To
tal Valuation of g,58L,
352,511 for City.
Germans, Halted North of
WILSON ASKS CONGRESS TO VOTE
ON ARMED SHIP WARNING ISSUE;
U. S WAITS AS U BOAT WAR STARTS
la riiuvEinon,
GRUISER.SUNK; !
930 MEN LOST
Verdun, Force French to
Withdraw in Southeast
Invaders, Taking Several Towns in Effort to Cut Rail
way and Isolate Fortress, Encounter Desperate
Resistance Claim 17,000 Prisoners.
r.
$10,000,000 IXCREASE
IX JSOIUiOWIXG POWER
Personal Property Figures
Exceed Those, for 11)15
by 27.3U5.
The 191 tn assessment rolls tf real
nd personal prr-erty In New York city, j
prepared by the Hoard or Tn Commls-
lonersjjo Is" submitted at noon to-day
to the Hoard of Aldeiiueii, show a total
assessed valuation fur taxation purposes
of !i,S4,35:,Sll for the live liorougliH.
Of this amount J !..-,0T.,'J"J.:fil consists, of
real estate. Including leal .-tat? of cor
poration and special franchise assess,
ments, and S 3TS.S3v, 1 M of personal prop
eny. The 1110 tu rate will t com
puled on a basis of these tlgurcs.
The total Increase in the assessed
value of all real estate Is m.Ot.l. 571 .
over the assessment figure for IMS und
the total Increase In personal property
IS f.l.tis.ova inoiu mail luhi e.u. io.si
means that the uu lease In the city's
borrowing capacity Is slightly less than
1 l(i,"00,0(i.) this year as compared with
7,iiyo,iMiij liint year and r..Ul',oOO In
114. Tho personal property lliture"
amount to only a little more than 10
per cent of the tentative personal prop
erly assei-snient, which was estimated last '
October at (::,;ti4105,9$r.
There In a total increase of ll'3..".30,- '
111' of both leal estate and persona,
property oir the assessment figures for
Ileerrnse In Manhnttan,
The most phirliiK featute of the Tu-.
Conimlsslonets' leport Is a decrease In
the alue of .Manhattan real estate
.imotliitliiK to 32,23,Mi'U, Tills is the
thlnl tlni In tin- history of the city that
Manhattan real estate values have
showed a decrease. Last jear the fall- i
iiitf off was J.I.'.U.uOO. In ISK' Manhat
tan rcl estate suffered n loss In asaea
biible value of K'.375,u0u. The sreat
khrlnkaite this year represents not only
that of land values but nlso a net reduc
tion In value after offsetting the value
of all new bulhfliiKS that were erected
Uurllo; last ear. Hard times, icuiovals
of trade centres and duu-.aKe due to hliili
liiillillui;s aie ass.gncd by rri'shleiit Law
kon I'tiidy ua tin. reasons for tile 1 "J 1
iter ream,
'I .ie Inceas" of J?'.i,Oi51,ri7 I In real os
lati and special fianchls- asiessiiients
. in.ol" up of the following items:
ThioiiKliom th city ordluaiy leal estate
nimributeil only HO.'We.OOu to tlsi In
r reuse Tho decrease of 32,,.'!.".Qu" In
Munhatiali mil estate values was offset
l.y lmi',ih of jr.'.UUO.OUO 111 The
Uii.iix, jx.".,niiii,rjiiu in liiooklyn. 523, woo,
1 1 U ' I in (jiieeus and il.'jea.OOli 111 Itlch
i ior.il AIo there was all Increase in
i'rclal fiaihhl-e as.esmentM amouiitlni;
to 54,..iiio.iiuii. and an Increase In the as-
merit of leal estat. of corporations
amount Inir to JI3,uo.nii. DuiIhb the
nine .ins l'r .ni 'J2 to ll'l I the aver-iik-"
increii" - In the atsessed value of all
icil estate was slluhtly In exctss of
iaui'.UOO.UU''.
I'eimiiinl rroperl.
Tho iis-esMiieiits on iieismia. propertj
for the tle hoio'iKhs -how an Incteas..
in all lioiotaJhs but The llrmix and
iJUfcus. The ihi-rease -n thine borouirhs
amounts to ir.3C.30 in The lironx and
9H,y.i In ijuiens. The peisonal prop
erty lists rhow that thlity-to resident
of Manhattan are assessed for a quarter
of a million dollars or more and seven
for l,HHi,000 or moif, ltetrarilltiK the
personal proptrly assessment President
i'urdy made the follow Ini? statement:
"The total p-isonal assessment ex
rfris that tor 1 ! 1 r. by morn than $24,
noti.non. That result was nached after
.arasdlliur about $lMii.(jM(i,riOii of the lis
fesMiients rarrlisl oer fim.i previocrf
vrars, wliini mvesiivatioi s ow.ii -
eli-oneous. Tile colUctloll of taxes on
prsonal property will probably exceed
tho collection for I'.il.. by about 12,500,
oOo, or fio per cent.
"The host collections of the tax levy
en personal property .since consolidation
have amounted to 70 per cent, of the
Jew, which has been about the result
tlnce llu. This ear It Is expected that
about Jiu per cent, of the levy will be
collected on account of the extraordi
nary efforts to eliminate all uncollectible
Items."
The tax lists show a net decrease In
rel estate In live out of the elirlit sec
tions of Manhattan Into which the bor
omen Is divided for assessment purposes.
The only sections which show an In-
rease are the fourth and fifth, which
Include the terrltoiy from Fortieth to
Nlnety-Rlxth street, Kast and Wml sides,
and the eighth section, which Ih all of
Manhattan Island north of 155th street.
The i; rentes! Iiicrcuw.
The irreatest Increase was in the terrl
ior between Fortieth and Fifty-ninth
si it els, Third and Sixth avenues. The
total iiicreasii here was 117.117,000, of
which 114,5311,000 was lucrens.t in the
land value. The increase In this section
In attributed to the fact that It Is the
I'-si shopplm: district In the flty. near
ill lint f'enti.il and Is the recipient of
moat of tlie trade which has shifted
I rum lower parts of the city
The Kieatest deereiwe Is apparent In
thai section Included between Four
teenth ami Fortieth streets, Fourth and
Mlxth avenues, where a pet decrease of
I21,iioo,(uifi is notdl. Thero wnM a de
rriasc of 123.'22,5il0 In land values, but
part of this was offset by now hulldlnKM.
An InterestlMK feature of the tax llsta
Is the decrease In assesHnient values In
ho financial district, south of Liberty
street nnd Maiden lane. There waM a
land ilccreaH' in this section amounting
Ui JS, 2U7.000, but owliiB to new build
hr. activity lids ilrs-i-ease was reduced to
a net flirurc of $1,533,000, Incidentally,
500 of the I3,7'JJ tippllcalfnrih for nsluc
lions In assessments caiim from the
financial rllstilc.t. This was largely due
to I he hard times last year and the prov
idence of empty offices In that section.
That part of the ct bounded by the
runt Itlvcr, llowery, Worth and (irand
trei;tH for the first time In six jeara
( niiflmixl en ,S(j(i Pngr,
FRENCH RECAPTURE PART OF LOST GROUND i
Special Cable Denpalch In Tim Si".
Lonpo.v, Keb. 1st. The Herman assault
against Verdun him centred In the last
twenty-four hour In an attack on the
French line on the Woevre plain, to the
fast of the foi tress. Here Urn Hermans,
auordlnir to the ofllclal Merlin state
ment, have taken Dieppe. Abauccurt,
lllauzec Watronville, Mnnheulles and
Champion,
mem successes give the Hermans
I"sesslon of the line along the road ex
tending f i om Dieppe southeast to
Champion, nut only pushing the line In
lioin the east and southeast, thus tak
ing Impoitant steps toward cutting oft
the fortress, but giving the Hermans
jMssessloii at several points of the rail
road running north and south live miles
east of Verdun, a gain of great value
to the (.ontlnued -lifiigth of the St.
Mlhlel salient In the Herman line.
The (iermans captured one wpnt on
the road, Klx, at the foot of the fetes
Lorraine, on Sunday, hut loft It again
that night. Maiiheulles and Frcsucs wcte
attacked also on Sunda, but the I'reticli
l,'' W tepuise t!ie assaults. .Man
heulles now has fallen and I
thouuii still holdliiL- i. hi L is
I'resm-s, ,t.
U en tirae-
tlcally surrounded. Fiesties Is an tin-j
jiortam iiicnway centre and also Is on
the Verdun-i'oMiiticivj railionl.
on the northern Wilim fnmt lliey..
wti- littl- utlvlty to-di, .ilthfjiinh last
nlcht the Oerin ilia lesunu-d without sm -cess
their voleiit atttickn In the region
of Doti.iumotit. After they had ls-en
lll-Uell li.li l lit l...,.l ... 1 1
Willi file I...,n.li ......... I.. l.iu . 1.... I
. .... ... . ....v,.. u, ii,,-. i,',e,
, the (ierinan.s appear to h.tie abandoned
for the time icltit; their attempts t.. push
, th's northeri line further tow. ml the
I'ortivi-s until more support Is obtained
ft Kill the .mm. (lii the not til of til"
si ipes of the Cote tin J'olwe the Her
f in.ms are r.illtiiK back.
rrnmii. I'nll Rnek. sn, I'reneh.
Th olth-lal .-omiiiuui.Ue siii'.i by the
IVeii.-ti War uttice to-nlK... follow -
Helween Solsnns jiud llheiiii- uur
art.'.ler.v bolulil1" .1' linpoi lai!l jiolnts
behind the enemy front.
In ChunipaKiie our battene- de
htroyed (jennan pritanlatlui' n -In-ri-Klon
of Hill l::t To the wes- of
the Malsous de I'liampasMi. in.. Her
mans exploded a mine, tin . aier of
which we oc iipl.-d,
In the reirion of W.dtin t . bom-
ST. LOUIS VOTES TO '
SEGREGATE NEGROES
Three to One Majority for Plan
That Would Keep Them
(till of White Ui.sti'iets.
LOXK KKMIT KXPKITKD,
St IOt-is, 1-Vb. 20. Ordinance pro
vI.IIiik for the seirr.-iMtlnn of neuroes In
I separate blocks from the whites of St.
Louis, voted on here to-day, were curled
ny a vote of approximately 52."0 to
17,0011.
Two ordinances were voted upon, one
providing that a white person or neitni
cannot become a resident In
occupied entirely by those
a block
of the
opposite race. The tithe- imposes tlie
same rest rlt Ions on b!o.-l;s wheie 75
per cent, of one race live.
The ordinances Income .tTectlvc In ten
days unless an Injunction Is applied for,
which s almost a certain!). Opponents
,f the otillnaiices say that they will
carry the matter to the Siipieme I'ourl lauuneu.
,.f the rnlted States, which lias m.v.THke, and
..... ne.tti.r
jitt,.-tu - -
The uuestlon has arisen as to what
effect the adoption of both ordlnames
would have, some attorneys holdlnK that
there Is a conflict between the two.
Other authorities, however, hold that the
more stringent one supersedes the other.
A lively letcal battle Is In prospect.
The argument of constitutionality wuh
raised durlnc tho campalKti and court
opinions were cited In an effort to show
that neither ordinance would be consti
tutional. The election wnH unusually iulet, with
no disorder. One hundred and thirt)
rive challenger" wm appe ired at various
polling places for the anll-scttregatli nal
Ists were disqualified.
For several days negro girls and
...! ..... i.lr.m .'iru n.i
women have niiuoeu "...
street cars and In public places bearing
a cartoon which depicted a white man
driving a negro before him anil lashing
Ids bare back, will. Ihe Inscription
..i ... ut-. eeri'.'
Oil. S uf,..w- ,
n organisation known as Ihe I Ml 'd
Welfare Association circulated petitions
calling tr U'e election, and the cam.
na g against It h l-'h omduct.-d by
0,e CltlreuH Antl-N.gro Segregation
,''l,V.'.l.,l',,.?;'n,,,i,,ei,i teal intnlu men weie
lici t a the movement for segregation on
. e , t or tho depreciation In the va ue
f roiier y eaused by negro-ss moving
into the satne residential block with
WThe l.resent legal residences of whiles
and i.t-grot-H are not affected by the
llnu.tes. which apply only to future
rtsldences. Not only r.t-ldences, but
II cut ri. schoolj., churches, dance ml h
and olber assembly places come within
the ordinance.
Tree ordinances bear the follow lug In-
.ion! "An oiillnaneo to pievent 111
feeling, conflict and colllslotm between
the white and colored races In Ihe city of
Ht IoulH and to preserve the public
peace ami promote the general welfare
by making reasonable provisions requir
ing the use of separate blocks lor resl
deuce of white and colored people, re-bp'.-llvcl)'.M
bardtnent continued on the northern
front with less Intensity than on the
pi feuding da)s. No Infantry action
was reported In the course of the day.
The Hermans on the slopes north of
the Cote du Polvre. of which the tlrst
ci est is occupied by our advanced
elements, mo falling hack.
We directed a violent lire on Samngn
eux, where an enemy battalion was
assembled. ,
At varlouH points of our front In
the Woevre our artillery lire stopped
attacks about to he delivered.
In the Voices there was great ar
tllltry activity in the region of Senncs
and of the ll.in de Sapt. To the east
of Seppols our counter attack droc
the enemy from certain trench ele
ments mlo which he had penetrated
In the inornlnK.
In the course of the afternoon two
German balloons of the Drachen tpc
which were before our front broke
their moorings and fell Into the sa
In front of Pantic-autrc-Coudeketqiic.
The aeronauts were taken prisoners.
lleshles announclni: the Rains on the
eist.ru Verdun front, the statement Is.
z$::Tr!zu0T
wounded prisoners taken In the Verdun 1
llnhtlns has Increased to 22$ otlteers i
ifi.r.;
men. Seven heavy ruii
i- T-n, -,iii,- ,ir.iii.-i hiiii.'i "ii" p"w
..hi.n ..... ..mi ,..iiii.
l inachltio Kims are icisined In the i
war- booty.
i
lirriiitin i In I m ltl..su:i l'rloner.
The text of to-day's licrtiiall o(Tlc!ol
statement Is as follows;
Very stiom: artillery activity has
continued at sevtra. i.olnts.
Last of the Mill-.- we stormed a
small armored wo-1. dliectly north
west of the village of Doiiauinont.
Ilepiated enemy uttacks In this ivirlon
were siopp-d at the very outset.
In the WtH-vie our troop- have
lussed l'ei.e. Abaucourt and 111. in-i-ei.
The have cleared the ixteiislve
w. .oiled ren.on uort!i.Mt of Watron-
In- .lU'l'll.itidioinont and have tiik.-li.
in tli' l- li.-ii.lc tidvance, Manheulle.
and lb" I'nalliplon.
l t.'l last nittnt we counted tin
vtoiiiided prlsontr-. 22s otflcws and
l.;,57.'. uicli. aiid. fur'hei, s.ver.t.v
e i;iil cannon, stven of these heavy,
..a., of 111. inns: modern kind, ai.d
.-.Khl-s. machine xuns. whl.e
un-
"...( (l li( on Third l'aji.
ANTIS PUT BAN ON
WOMEN'S CITY CLUB
r.vfreine Views. Not Smoking
nnd Suffrage, Pause, Says
Mrs. Dodge.
'TIIK MASSKS' FACTOR TOO
The N'ew York State Association Op
po'id to Woman Suffmite In executive
session yesterday, passed a resolution
iiru-lnn antl-siiffraL-lsts to refrain from
Joining the Women's city club, and rail
ing on tho.se who are uifirdcrs to rcslirn.
Several have done so. IncliiditiB Mrs.
Nelon Derrick Henry and .Mrs. Everett
i i-. vv neeit-r.
. .Mrs Arthur M. Dodte, spe.iklnif as
vice-preiueni 01 ine nnii-orL-aniz:itlon.
j said the fact that the club started
by suffraLtlsis Ii.nl nothing to do with
this step, and neither, she declared, was
It caused hv the fact that siuoklnc is
itinera' 'here
; ' liver) boil smok
nowad.i) s,"
smoke all
I wouldn't
she
they
on re.
"The. can
drink, too.
No, til
ason the nulls dU-ipprnve of
the Women's City Club, as our resolti
tlon save, is because of the extreme radl
cal views held by Its organizers on other
social questions not suffrage, not the
timing one of smoning."
What Is meant by "other social ques
lions" Is best described by a leaflet
which the antl-nssoclallon has had
prlnled and Is sending to the various
state presidents attlllnted with the Na
tional Association Opposed to Woman
Suffrage, of which Mrs, Dodge In presl.
dent. The leaflet contains a copy of a
"Hallad" which appeared In the January
numt.er of Thu .Ifiwwi, The "Hallad"
caused Ward A- Oow to order The
Jfos'e.i off the subway newsstands. It
told the story of Christ's birth In wht
mav be mildly described as the ver
nacular. Side by side with this "ballad." on the
leaflet sent out by the antls. Is what
....... .. ..... . . .... -.
.-at. uie iiMM.rs.-in.-ui. ,i is an
advertisement which appeared In The
l(isnr.i for February, signed by Miss
Alice Carpenter, Miss Zona (laic, Mrs.
Marie Jenney Howe, Mrs. Anna Strunsky
Walling and Mrs. Norman D.-H, White
house This was the advertisement :
To women Who read Thr .1foe;
Cheques payable to Thr .lari
New Year's gift committee, nr. Wash
ington place, Will you be ope to
give $r. or more toward a New Year's
gift of J2,f.n0 for this magazine, ns
one of those who appiefkile the eager,
lutelllgtnt mipport It has given to the
ciiuse of modei n woman','
When we have looked for economic
and political suporl. for selentltlc
sex truths, there has. . Iways stood
"Ihr Jiwim,
Mrs. Whitehouse and Miss Alice Car
penter, two of the women who signed the
call lor belli for Thn .ViiHHm, are Ihe
rounders of the Women's City Club. MIrh
CaiHiiler said last lilglrt that the mat
ter was not worth discussing, Mrs,
Whitehouse said ln-r name was given for
tlie ndverllsmeiit many months ago. Just
after The .Vnun-s published a special
suffrage nuniUir.
tnXIC'IOI'H lKKHr"04IT KABM HAVNAOK
They ristt more try them slid see why. Mstts
st the IMiriii. Soul hi siruiiuh, Mum ,l.t.
French Liner. Takon Into I
Xavy, Destroyed in the ,
.Mediterranean. ;
1170 saved; tex ships ,
seekixg sfrvivors:
0 Landed at Malta and!
Mulos
Troops Carried
by Vessel.
Pvr.ts, Feb. 20. The tr.iiifallaii'.i.! '
Hntr l.a Provence, which hail bent n-ed !
n n French cruiser since the outbreak '
I of the w-ar, was sunk In the Medlterra-
' nean on Saturday with a loss of about
I H3v lives.
Tile announcement of the loss of the
iblg liner, which was called "the queen
of tlx- seas" In-fore the couuni; of t.i
Lusltanla and Mauri tania, was made I
by the .Ministry of Marine tn-d.iy.
Them were about l.!00 jiersons on
H,,ir,i the ship at tho time of tls- slnkhis.
" - i..e
saved. About 100 of these have been'
landed on the Hreea Islantl of .Melos and
! 21n'. have ls;en landed at Malta
,, . ., ... . r . , ,
i ne cans ... to- m.i... .
Is unknown. The Aluusiiy of Marine
stated merely that -he was sunt, .ub-
marlt.vs ..f the Central I'ow.rs ,c. )w .
actHe .cently III the Al.-d.t-i . aiaan.
liowevi
Ii is tbomiht nrt.bable that!
a torpedo destrojed La Pmveiice lie
I ccntlv the llrlttsh steamer Fastl.et and a
, Swedish steam-hip have Uen sunk not
fur from the ,t known position of La
Provence, No mine tlelds are known to
' hive been laid III the .Mediterranean Se.i
mound Cruie and bet man) Islands
.The slnklnK Is said to have taken place
, far out In the sea.
TrtHipi for
inobabl.' thai
SHlonlen.
It ' pi tillable thin tie- I'll.- Vsel wa
miotic; trtsjp" to Mibmica or Irani--lio'tmu
soldiers sick leave or fur
IuiikIi back to Fraiae.
T- n ships are . rulslui; eatk .md forth
In the iielnhboihood where the blB for
tl.el li-l-T went down 111 the hope of pick
Iiir uji more suntvois. but It Is not lio
lved that the tkath list will Is- materi
al de. f ised. Ill view of the fact tint
Ii Piovetice was sunk last Saturday,
and the rescue ships have had alsiut
thiee dayii In which to uport as to sur
vivors. From the f.i.'t that some of the sur-'
1 Vllors of l.li I-rt.Velue w-e i.illlieti
i at Malta, an i-land south of Sicll). and
others on lh- Hreek Island ot Alllo, or
Melos. one of tl )flades irroup 111 tlie-
Sea t't i an. Hit. southeast or i .recce, n is
probable that the vessel was sunk In I if
Slid mll stletch of water netweiii me 1
two Islands.
La Provence veas built in I SOS and ,
entered tlie passeuuer service of the,
French Line In m.'-. Hi her niald.-n
voyafc-e she broke the tr insatl.ititlo record
from Havre to New York, and In the
same )ear lowered her own record to
six days, one hour and three minutes. .
There was much rivalry at the tun.- is'-1
twecn the i:tu:IWi. I rencli ami i.ennaii
Meumshlp Hues, and the French liner In,
,:,n;;c1 'iThi 1 ,h,! ,u,n-
biirt.-Amerlt.in l-me.
11 ITOVCnce was n.l irri k.iik ill...
... , i.. i.i. ,,.i
tnent of IJ.OOu tons. Her .iikIii.s d
velo.ed iP'.Oiiu horse-power
Her last tilp from New York was
mad.- In Aticiist, 11.11, when rhe took
rii-ervlsts back to France.
WAR MSKS GO HIGHER.
Meillterrniicnn Itntra lime II Inert'
to Tnu I'er Cent.
Transatlantic war tisks stllTninl still
further vcsterd.iy In antlciiatlon of the
enforcement of i ierni.iny's subuiarlne op
erations agalnt aimed iiier. hantiiie i.
Local marine underwrlti r itiiorled
rates quoted at fiom 1 to I ! pel ci nl
and a t otislderable ' unwillingness cv.-n (
at these rates to undertake the Insur
ance of bilge shlpiiieius. There Is a
tendency to await the developments of.
the next few days before dosing furl In r)
biihlness. Prev'ously the extreme rale
had been 1 't per cent.
Hates to tho western Mediterranean,
which have been comparatively light,
rose to -J per cent. This was on ad-'
vices to the New York agents of Iou
don companies that theie were leporls.
of submarine activities within fifty miles
of Marrellles. No Information of such !
actlv-My had been received from any,
other source, and the inlvic. s did
state whether any ships had I u
tacked oi not.
mil
lit- ,
HITTER'S GOLD GARTER LOST.
Hrnrch for . nrUer's Proprrl
Stir xtlmillr ( ll.
Ari.ANTU- ClTV. N. .1.. Feb. J? -Scaic'i
Snurred b) offei!. of
Til. ..t-.l . ....,!
t hair imshers mid Itoanlwalk vv lull w lugs
combtil the esplaiiinle. bill with no ic- '
Milt. KcepeHt luystei) .-lllioliniletl lia"'
case untr an iitlv.-rtlseinent appealed 1.1
the pupil M re.nllng
Lost Man's gaiter, gold, uiii..ils II
P. V. It, Liberal r. ward I' ictiirucd
to J. Applegate, Hotel Tia,vmoie.
It ilevelopt-d then that Applegutr s
Ihe hotel detective und tint Ihe goblin
e circlet l the pioperty of IMwanl
P. V. Hitter, piesldent of the Maiiuf.ic.
turers exchange, New York. The lost
garter Is one of a i"ilr he brought home
from Paris.
FLAMING ZEPPELIN WRECKED.
Ileslrucllnn at Air tlrnfl Witnessed
lit Denmark,
Sprctal Cable Denpaleh tu Tnit 3i s
I.SPON. March 1 The Copenhagen
.onesp.Uident of the Doily Villi tele
graphs " Mxploslons In the air weie heard
rluuday evening t several places n.
south Jutland, coming from the dltec
Hon of rVhlesw Itr, Flamen were seen at
a great height, suggesting that a 7.ep.
pelln was allre. Tlie hunting mass was
seen tt,fnll suddenly."
. S. Still Undecided What
Course to Pursue With
Germany.
'SECRET ORDERS" OF
B RITA IX DELAYED
Den stration of Xew Sub-
marine Campaign
Looked For.
1TTTRE COXDITT OF
TKITOXS BIG ISSUE
Xii Lusitania Settlement
I'm i I Berlin and Washing
ton Are in Better Accord.
W.vMiilsuTOX. 1'eh.
new Aiistto-Hertnatl
29. -With tin
.submarine cam
at mldulKht to-
p.ilun due to start
nlcht. I'resl.lent wr.son and Secretary
of State Lanln ate still undeol !e.l
delliiitely is to the course which this
i mv . riiiueiu win a..o,...
The de.-isloii awaits tile arrival In
Wa-liintrtoll of tile nnei;ei set.r.-i oi-
j tiers of tin- Hritlsh Admiralty, which
' (ieriuaii) .md Austria have1 cited in
Jiistiileatlon of their intention to tor
pedo armed enemy merchantmen
without warning.
Copies or lli-so nrtiern en- si.v..
to Ambass.itinr (Jerartl at llerlln three
weeks a. by the lierman l'orelun
tiflice as .tiiendlces to the Herman
declaration advising neutral Powers
of tin- new submarine campaign.
Tite Cabinet at lta meeting held to-
I day unreel that It Is Imperative that
i the appendices should he la liand.ut
' the earliest possible time. For that
'reason Secretary Lanslnir, following
j tlie Cabinet session, tabled Ambas
sador c.er.ird asklim- for t-xuot infor-
Illation lis
to when the diplomatic in.ui
I"""''' '"nl,,,"1"i;
data left Herlin
itutt
Department
'"
insist.
however, that
they place no
! c-.inlld'.'iice in tho report that the pouch
.....Miniiiu- tills matter was taken
,..,lnim; tills Ml
...lltainillk' tins Mi...... ,
the Dutch steamer '
' . .,. 11,1.1.1, censors Ut F.il
sn-i '
mouth.
nltlnB I -Ht War.
. . intlm,. t. American Gov-
in til- iiiL.iiiiuo .111V,.,.. for
eminent I- iiwaltlliB with aliMet) for
;i piacticil demonstration of how tno
,.w submarine liunpalKli Is to Isi car-
... t, Rht of the niemoratl-
, , ,,t.for Secretary LansltiR
"u" '"" ..,,,. ...ln HernstorlT.
,,. .1 ,....olnL-of the statement contained
.1, ..net.iv
.in tin- uieiii.irar.uum that t-neni)
mer
chantmen will not be sunk without warn
ing, nnl.ss the presence of -armament on
bounl such vessels "Is proved."
In tin- absent of any tletlnlte explana
tion in the memorandum Itself, they are
unwilling to ac. ept as representing the
oili.ial Intuitions of the (Jennan 'Jov-ii-iimilit
and tin- peisonal opinion ex
pressed to Mr Linslng )esterday by the
Herman Ambassador that the submarine
comtiian.le. ' will look for "proof" of
such armament In the actual use by the
metcit. intuitu of their gnus.
For that if.isoti, It was explained to
'i.gV. in authoritative qiiuiters. the
Flitted States and Oernuny cannot be
...ml to I... in sum. lent .iccor.l 1.' ptriru
111. III'L-Oll.ltlolis to proceed
for a settle,
in. ill ol the l.lisitauia comroveisj s.
long as the Uerin in submarine declara
tion is to bt lotn-trued "at Its face value."
Tin- big question tonf routing the Ad
ministration. It was admitted. Is how the
Mibm. nines of (iirinany and Austria are
going to conduct their campaign, nnd
this, It was staled, can probably be an
swtie.l In the Immediate future only by
aha. actually takis place on the high
.-ci tin- act of "lie overzealous sub-
marl iiiniauder, It Is feared, might
upset whatever understandings tho
Fulled States may now have of Her
luany's intentions.
I,niislnK Is Incensed.
iP'cause o f tin uncertainties surround
ing tlie entire situation 111 Its prcft-nt
slaje Seiretary Lansing was much In
censed t..-da) over published reports pur
pulling to give his Impressions of the
memorandum presented to him by the
Herman Ambassador. Hefore going to
tlie Whit.- House to confer with the Pies-
I .1. . t. .1..... 1.... 1 .1 I .......nt
. . ..l... .oimuvHu til tin ! Ilf Mi'lVH III
- Ill M 11.11 M4t
In the commiinlcatlnn
isnm i piiiiruiirm
leeelveil vesieroay iron, toe -u-iuh... o
b.is' oloi". I wish to say that Hie com-iiiuiil.-iilons
have not been made public
l., uie. and t lint any statement as to the
views of tin- Stale liepartliieiit 111 .the
loiiuoiinicatloii Is absolutel) iinauthor
l.ed. I bnve made no conimenl .mil ex
piesse.l no iipllllon ill regal d to the
.o.itlel-."
ii-l i.,.rl,..l In lie Ihe ..III
lal text of
i loiiiii.luni was niibllsbt-.l here I
this ufttiitoon. When it was shown to
Secrctnr) Lansing he iff used in verify
It The lierman Hinbass) likewise lie
.lined to confirm or deny lis autlien
licit) II lead as follows :
"The Imperial Hovel nnient reiterates
Ihe pledges given on September 1 and
iiclobei- -. !'.' I.', and does not consider
that the assurances nave iieen motimeq
by
subsequent evenls, Uie negotiations
' coniliicteil between I ho American and
..... a
uu iiiit-ricaii uiin
Herman Hovernments concerning the
Lnsllanla linideiit never referred to
mi mi ll merchantmen.
"On the contrary, the note of the
i no I lean Hove rumen! on May HI poke
! nxpri'ssl) of iniiii nied iner.iiantmen.'
, Fiirlhennoie the formula agreed upon hy
both Hovel nnienlH on September I con
tained the pioviso 'provided that lliey
do not offer resistance.'
"The presence of armament on bonrit
WILSON WANTS TO CLEAR
ALL DOUBTS IN EUROPE
WASHINGTON, Feb. tg. President Wilson's letter to ctlng
Chairman Pou of the Rules Committee of the House, asking for a vote
on the resolution warning Americans against travel on armed ships of
belligerents, follows:
My De.tr Mr. Pou :
Inasmuch as I learn that Mr. Henry, the chairman
of the Committee on Rules, is absent in Texas, I take
the liberty of callinK your attention as ranking mem
ber of the committee to a matter of grave concern to
the country, which can. I believe, be handled, under
the rules of the House, only by that committee.
The report that there are divided counsels in Con
gress in regard to the foreign policy of the Govern
ment is being made industrious use of in foreign capi
tals. I believe that report to be false, but so long as it
is anywhere credited it cannot fail to do the greatest
harm and expose tlie country to the most serious risks.
I therefore feel justitied in asking that your com
mittee will permit me to urgp an early vote upon the
resolutions with regard to travel on armed merchant
men, which have recently been so much talked about,
in order that there may be afforded an opportunity for
full public discussion and action upon them, and that
all doubts and conjectures may be swept away and our
foreign relations once more cleared of damaging mis
understandings. The matter is of so grave importance and lies so
clearly within the field of executive initiative that I
venture to hope that your committee Vill not think
that 1 tim taking unwarranted liberty in making this
suggestion as to the business of the House, and I very
earnestly commend it to their immediate consideration.
Cordially and sincerely yours,
WOODROW WILSON.
The White House, February ). 1 910.
a merchantman cieates the presumption
that the vessel Intends to offer resistance.
A submarine commaiidi r iiinuot pos-ibl)
warn un enemy liner If tin- liner has ihe
rljrht to tire upon the submarine It I"
obvimis that earn reslMtam n to the
warning by a sulrmaiine c.innoi l; the
mejinliiK "f 'armed fot defensive put
poses' even If It vvere universally
rtsMictilj.-d that defensive armament Is
permitted by International lave
Thl.s point of view was adopted by
tin- American ( iivt rnmeiit when .t re
.piested assurance from the Italian Am
b.vsador that the armed Italian. .nli
Verona, which entered the poll f New
York would IMt tlie oil Mlblll.ll'iUe- wln.li
warned by them.
'The Impirlal flovtinment Isi-uo! .ts
new orders to the Herman naval c-'i
in.mHers -.tftrr h.'.vlliL; m( ell bv til. S. t
-,, ,,,, llrl,,i, A.ho.i-altv that the
at,.mwM ()f rl, merchant m-ii 1- t..
be list it for the purpose ot .tint' n. ai"i
that the ships ate not merely peact-fii.
traders 'armed only for d. t.-u. e.' Hrlt.sh
merchantmen have fiirtli-rmoie on sev
eral occasions attacked Herman or
Austro-Hungarlin submarines.
"They therefore do not conform
Wit'l
the assurance given by the Hrltt. i Hov
eminent In the not- of the llrlti-ii vm
bas.-t.idor tu Washington or .ugui
1?14. and can even, according to
the
tie)
tee.ll nollltk of vlt-.v a.l.illtid i')
American Hiivernmciit, not be i et
Hgll'v.ed
as peaceful traders.
"In Issuing the new onb is to It naval
commanders the Imp. rial (Jov eminent
believed Itself to be entirely In ac rd
with tin- Anitrtcan (Jovt rnmi nt. which
expressed similar opinions In tin- pm
postals which it submitted to the entente
Power.
Liners ot to lie X1111U.
"The 01 tiers issued to tlie Oilman
naval commanders are so i.u undated
that en ui) liners ma) not be dei-trov ed
on net mint of their atutameut units
such armament Is ptoved. It tlien
fore obvious tint the Impel-.. il liov.-ic-
lllellt does Hot llllilld lii I evoke the
i pledges given Seplcinliet 1 itn.l t n loner
.., t-'iu.
"Tl.o Imperial (Joverimnnt welcomes
the llltelltlon of the A in-1 1, a II leil.ll.
ns'llt to bring iiboul a n ...Ills v'v in.il
between til" belligerents with regard to
the disarmament of merchantmen, but
cannot see It" way to change or p'stpone
the new orders to Its naval t omuiainh'ts
because the Imperial Hoverntiteiit ..m no
lmigt r permits Its submarines lo be cub
Jei ted to Illegal att.uks bv a nied eiiem.v
merchantmen."
In view of tlie uinhlKiilty In the e
vresslon "utiles mil h aiin.iiiu nt is
proved" It Is thought puss- ;.e that duet
von Hernstorft nil; he a-ld b Mr
Lansing to get an off cal staiement fioni
his Uovernment as to bow tils pioof Is
to be obtained. Such un lnqiilr.v. I ovv -evei,
mtgllt l"' tlel.ied unill alter tlie
President .md Mr. Lousing have li.nl
opportunity to exauitn- tin- sc. i.t
ders of the llrllisli Adiiilrntl) for the
purpoMi tif seeing whether, n eft eel Hi'
llrltlsli merchantmen .He und
i d-'-s
vvhl'h Place them 'i Un
auxiliary cruisers, and.
question (ileal Hrltali. . .e
If, It was pointed oui
relied upon Is meiel) lie
c.itigot) ol
pelll.lps.
. 1 1 1 1 II 14 till III.
'lie "I, roof"
. ls o!'
the ltlitlsh orders, there would .M!'. e
main lo be determined b tin miIhii:.: Ii
commanders whether tlie ships i.. .1
tacked without warning nic tho i u l
or thoe. for example In Un- trans, ' . '..
trade, which nr.- not arnn .1
i If, It was observed, the "; roof ' Is to
'I... r.irnlvheil In ilOViinie ill til. i,N' of
,,eii essel to be uttackeil bv Herman)
liecret ngeills, these agents inighl u
the mistake they made when tln-v te-
ported that the Lusltaula was an I.
If, on the other band, tlie Inieinnta
tlou of Ambassador llernsloiil Is llu- cor
rect one and the proof of iinnanieii. Is to
b looked for In Its actual use. the new
campaign will practically Involve no new
clement, itiasuuicu as iicien.i.n. i,o
lllu ,.,, .., , .
light to
,,t(r. .. m-ri.i1.,i.iiiian In the a.
j.oesiioi ti io. ..... .."'"
, . . ...,...i.
sisitio. u ... ...
ATTACKS rRKSWKiXT.
Vtondi'll III llonse snjs l'olli-j
Keep I. I" Hitl Wolff,
Wahiiinhton, Feb. :n A
liter ailnek
upon President Wilson's foreign polic)
m which . contrast was presented by
Hi" a. lion ..f the President In warning
.Viii. rkaiis to leave Mexico and his re
fllsjl to warn Americans to keep olf
.um.-l .n-r.-liaiitmen, w-a.s made lit the
ll.c'se lo-day by llepr.-sentatlvo Mondell
of U yoinlng. a Hepuhllran leader.
Mr Mondell .iiatged that as a whole
the lies. dents foreign iioncy is Incon
sistent and Indefinite and that as a re
sult the li.iv. rnmerit hud found Itself 'r.
not w.it. r at nil times in Its d-illius
with the LeMlgereiits of Luropo and the
v.ir oil" f.tcttoiis In Mexico.
Mr. Mo-idell i.eyan by reading the
his echani.'.'d by the President and
i 'n. iiiiu. in Sto.-n- ot th- Senate Foreign
Alfalrs Committee relative to threat
made b) Democratic leaders In Congress
tli.-y would force the pas-
s,1Cl. f it r,.,'
solution warning Americans
not to tr.iv.i on the' armed shlp.s of lel
I ge-eni nations Ml. Mondell eiupha-si-.
I tin.- sentence In the President's
letter o Chairman Stone: "For my own
par I citit.i't cons, nt to any abridg
ing nt .if the rights of American - ti
z. ns in .try respect," Arc.
'l ine, Hold Words."
"This.. ;ir, tine, bold wot ds," said Mr.
Mm-let!. "Taken from their coiitixt
and adopt.. I as a rule and guide for the
conduct of our foielgn affair, there Is no '
one under tho Hag but would applaud
them When, however, we take Into con
sideration the conditions under which
tie) were used, the situation to which
ih.) weie addrihsed, I am at a loss to,
know w nether the picture they conjure
up Is that of AJ.ix ilt-f) lug the lightning
in Falstafl' on paiade. i
' Foi niv own part I cannot consent
I to an) abridgment of the rights of Amer
ican citizens in any respect, l ine wor.is.
sphridhl s,..,tiinents. How unfortunate
l ,iat tin- President could not have llltert-'l
and acted upon them three years ago and
in the period that has Intervened, during
vv'ihh time the Administration has dons
l.ttle else than not only consent, hut ac- ,
tu.llv ivnn.vc at and weakly and su-1
plnely submit to the abridgment of tho
i t- its of tinerlcan citizens In Mexico, j
Th.-c were lights, clearly defined by sol- .
eini tnaiv. runtlameiitai rigniH, qui
Hon.. I or challenged by none the right
I. - life, ill., rly, residence and conduct of j
lawful business. I
"What a difference between the fund.i-j
ni.iit. it and treaty rights of American,
citizens in Mexico and the alleged rights)
for which with tine F.ilstaftl.tii tury It is
tn.vv pi .s. .1 to contend! The exeniso '
..f those lights otild by no possibility
of itself i re.ite a condition of friction.
II. lsiin.il it. indlng or lolilllct. They were
tlie natural, n. .-in.il and I rasonahl '
fluids w , i '!i all the woi Id reiiigntzes, .
which all nations agree to respei i and
nil nations are ixpectcd to maintain. I
Itlulils re I liiillc lined.
"Un 'In- .mitral-), tlie alleged rmhts to
wbt.li t.i.- I'n siili'i.t re f i re are III some i
oi the. ..sp." ts. to ii greater or less ib-
Kl... .Millenyed bv all the wol Id. Their i
i M'i lie '- Ii ue essary to the comfort
ic lianpiinss of aiy cltl?cn. Their ex
inisc. "nil under the most favorable
l llclllllsllo.es tm (Billable, s likely to
ml dls.istioiisl) for th'- Individual and
etlibi-o I tl.f nation In war over the fool-1
bud) advi nture.s of tilillanderlng t it 1 -.
7.CIIS '
i'.il.in-' no tlie President's cotitentlon
that ii.ei a ..us have a right to travel
on Ihe .Milled ships of belllgcu-nts, Mr.
Mondell -aid : i
l..t' re Hie alleged lights for j
"vlil.-M t.ie IMcsidcnt lonteuils so stoutly,
in regard Ui which lie thilli.leis. so Mil-I
h.nil) in Ihe Index .' Whatever detlnltlon
in ll be given them TV till II Mew of tills-
eoliiig aie! confusing the public mind.'
with a view of dodging 1st clouding the
leal issue, tlie alleged rights, lontendtd
lor un- lac light, ll it be u right, to I
navel ship carrying guns mute1
tlle. tlve .cgninst not only submarine-. I
Inn nimrni'lred cruisers, guns thru are I
intended and expected to be used to den)
Hie i-glit und pievent the act of search
.111 I SCIZUII . Hinii ...vo .iii.i.-
, hoi I ..i,ie m fact .in .ITecllve tinhtlng
i.n .1, i npi.l to tight, "istruelcl to
ng ' a I expe 'ed t" HglH "
VslllA I I.I F. 'TIIK LAMKIF TUT. fcKV."
In '.'.lili'iii i- i.resrnt servn-.', sOPniKltN
. HAIIAVAt nu " '"lv 'v",7
. I poi P
uni sol. :""" 'iL'-:--g v. .-;
XI
t irraiT, -w, riii.i Air
President Would Correct
Peport Abroad of Divid
ed Counsels Here. )
WAXTSTOFIXDIF -V
HE HAS FIIEE ILVX1)
Expects to End Impression
in Derlin' He Lacks Na- .
t ion's Support.
MEMBERS STAGGERED
AT THE CHALLENGE
Bitter Debate Kxpectcil
Some, See Hint of Com
ing War Crisis.
Wahiiinhtos-, Feb. t. President
Wilson startled Congress to-nlRht b;
calling for a count of noses on his sub
inarlno policy.
Tho President wrote to tlie actlns
ciialrmin of tlio Utiles Committee of
tho Ilousi) in glng an earl) vote on
tho resolutions now pending vvh.t u
warn Americans from travelling on
iiriiie.l merchant v.-s-.-N.
The President in this ..-.ter de
clares that "the report th.U there lirr
divided counsels in Congress .i; - c.-.i
to the foreign policy of t'n Ciovo'.-
ment !s being mub- iniliisii nn s u.
of lit fon-litu aplt.tl-."
Ho expresses the belief toil tin
report Is false and .old- iIi.h ' -o Ion
us It Is anywhere i teiliti-.l
.inm
fall to tin the greatest harm
ai.d '
pose the country to tlie mo-t
sere. .
risks."
The President tints has
Mm
down every b.irti.i' against tu. p
lie illsctisslon of tori'lgn alta.r.- .
Congress and has in i.ici inv
Irani: and full ei b.itige nt view .,
the Adliilt.istr.itioli - l.coi.l. To r
leugo trom th- Piesldent vvi i
tho opening of a il'-bii;. ,.t do,
which is likely to ... one ot llu in
.spirited and Important that 1m- tuuc
pl.ico In years.
Wilson i tiiillfli-nt.
What the out. om vu.I 'h is I v
of cour.-
a 111 tl tei o! un 1 1 siOi i .
I Ii .11. as mall)
uiicxp.-. I. .1 . vents in..
llltel Velio to llllllletic
I hi s. nunie it i
t ll-M.'llttlll
Congress befole t' t
nrtiilglil to ,i vol. At pr.'.-eilt, to.
U- t
tlie AOlilllllstl-.itloli is cotitblent . .
toiy ill both houses ol t'ur.gii s- ,u
,t ri't'tiis i.iiti.v .en. i, ii t,- ii it t . s..
obsoi vets lliat th who ale i ,m .
lug tin- Aiiiiii!iistr...'..ii will not I., a!
to control a m ijiii.) ot vuti
Setl.ite. even it the) sin, ted In pi,.i
lug a ii'soluuoii thi- u'i I'l- ll'i
Speaker Clatk md l.i ul"i- K Ii u
predicted List vw-i, that im- II ,
vvoiiid viito '2 to 1 it. t.ivoi' of tien
legislation, lull the) lll.nlc no i nllll. ,
to-night In la.!, t'oiigtcss a.ti'rs
both for aiid .igmiist tin- Aiinm
Lou, sceini'd stiilllied '' the st . ,
and lllit'.Xncttil iiiove l.y tio I'
dint.
In throw ..-i down ihe chaiien.- ui
Congless IMi'.shlelit W'is,,, w ,. , .
tiiiittd by tlio following i,. I,- . i
tlonj:
lit llevilig I li.it a I. 'I of s r. g
tills issue was in, v liable t-ool
later, tlie Pi esliii ill si Ii i led llu in- i
OS the most iqipol tlllle t'llle 11. ,..
piniiily fell that the A'lmlnir-1-., n
StlellKtll ill Congm-s on III.' ;su
would be greater in w tn.ii, o i
veiv'c of a t.ossihle . s
Charged w.th iiii.nislblit i...
inri-iil' i ot Uitell.il nl). ills, the Fits .1.
iies.ll oil all Imm.'diat. dec. sn at . -whether
he was to be bit wu'i , in
hand in this matter or wh.iin - is
Herts vvtie to be hand, ipp.o n
further inurfcrencc on tin p.n' ,.i
Congreis,
To Hntl Talk bnoul,
Tile I'rit-ldent llei sled that ..I
mediate challenge was 111' onli v iv
io end the Impression wtneb t d i
l'.u iiuihorilles have nbtalnnl h ;
lacks the support of ih- .ounir.
conduct of his nihiiiai ne in got . u s
Tool.D's move by the 1'nsiitr..' s
thereloie, intended partly t distil' .-
Iiartiful woil. nlic.nl dom 0)
ilctiionstration in Congim.
To say tint 1'r.s.lileiu Wilson,
to acting Chairman Pou of 111. !l . c
Hiilc Conuiiittc- wis a shock to t! .
trn-M leadeis Is putting It nnh-li T.s,
I, '.gill liolh those wlio are np)ioSin hi
thosa- who are siip.orllug III. A.im I
nation wen- m coiislcru itlon ami .i
unable to sa what Hi'n won j
taken
Si'iintor Stone, iliiiriiian of the Sen tie
Foreign Iblatloiis t.'i.iiimlttfe ; Itei t. rsi fc
tatlvt" Flood, load of the House Con
liiitte" on Fin-e un Affairs, .mil s.
Kern, tin- m.ijoiit) leader in in. .pii"
bouse, have made nil appoint ute..i a o
the President for o'clock lo ni.'in
inoriiing, when they wllj t-i to ...i.ii
from linn sonic more .hilnhc lit .1
Wll.lt lie expectl trotll l.'Ollgrees
lllg I onilillltee luooreil,
rite piesldent li.m perhaps nnw.. u
I ronipl'cate.l Hie s niation l.v appeal, i.
1 the Utiles Committee a 'Hon I
i . at inlitce i aioi.'t a. I i. Ih. w it t
I'r.sKb'iii desiics w (boil g.ung oer '
I ead of tlie I Kill O lli ' I I'" Ig'i M'r
or tile House hefo'i a I '
I . i-ihantuian leu- vi t .
llu
The Pre-. ih'"t ig'" '"
Affaire CtorimltteR ,in.oi'
ha
I
