-- - -r -rrnvrt
FINANCIAL' EDITION
fteiger
"f&
NIGHT
EXTRA
4
NIGHT
EXTRA.
jcuytmt
:c r-
VOL.ll.-NO. 145
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 191G.
CoFTiionT. 1910. it ina Polio Lidqu CoMrim.
PRIOK 02TB OESTT
I
1
h
ALLIES SHELL
FOE ON WHOLE
WESTERN LINE
Bombardment in Retalia
tion, Admitted in Berlin
for Verdun Assault
IfULL ON MAIN FRONT
.Great German Activity for New
Rush Conceded in Paris
' R Report
Fighting In tho wholo region around
Verdun camo to an almost complete
halt lust night, oillclal dispatches from
both tho French and Get man "War Of
fices agreed this afternon.
At tho mmo titno Paris gave warning
that tho Germans probably aio prcpar
lng to renew tho offensive on u gigantic
tcalc. Tho lull in activities is belloved
to presage tho beginning of now Tcu
tonlo drives against Popper Heights
and from tho east against Ports do
Tavanno and do Vaux, where lively en
gagements occurred late yesterday.
Tho German Var Otllco reported ar
tillery actions continuing on tho whole
front, but mentioned no engagements
of lmportanco in tho Verdun district.
Paris reported intermittent bombard
ment of tho French front northwest of
Verdun, but no other actions In tho
Verdun district. Tho French "War Of
fice paid somo attention, however, to
tho movement of German troops near
Pont-au-Mousaon, 35 miles southeast of
Vordun, roportlng concentrations of
troops having been dispersed by French
nrtlllery.
Military critics agree that Gcimany
Is now engaged In its supremo effort on
tho western front. Tho causes which
havo led up to it are political as well as
military. Tho best Informed circles
hold that tho following uio tho chief
reasons which led Emperor "William
and his advisers to begin tho offensive
movement which may boon spread from
the North Sea to Switzerland:
First. To offset tho long-heralded
spring drive of tho Allies, for which
preparations have been going on all
winter.
Second. Germany's failure to crush
Russia, and establish peaco with that
countiy. - 'i ",... ,-,w -v
Third. Political effect upon Greece
Mid Rumania, both of which 'aio now
wavering.
Fourth. Pi event transportation of
troops Into Greece for an alllod offen
sive against tho German, Bulgarian
and Austrian foices in Servla.
Fifth. To olThet tho Russian vlctoiles
Jn Aimenia and Persia.
Sixth. To win u decisive victory nt
Verdun and thus clcvato tho prestigo of
tho Crown Piince.
Seventh. Moral influence at home
and abroad as showing that ("J-imuny
Is not nearing exhaustion as regards
mon and munitions.
It is understood that both Field Mar
shal von Hindenburg and General von
Fallsonhayn, chief of the IChImh'h staff,
urged nn uttuck agaliiht Russia instead
of the Allies, but thoy weio overruled
by tho Kaiser.
BERLIN, March 1. French troops
were forced to evacuate the city of
Fresnes, 13 miles southeast of Verdun,
on Tuesday, according to the corre
spondent of the Lokal Anzeiger, tele
graphing from the Crown Prince's
headquarters today.
(This is the first report of the
evacuation of Fresnes. London dis
patches today reported Fresnes al
most invested by the Germans.)
BERLIN, March 1.
A heavy bombardment hus been opened
upon the German positions by the AlJIes
at many points upon the west front, tho
German War Ofllce announced today.
At some points these bombardments
grew Into violent artillery duels.
In the Woevre district the French tried
to destroy German works with their nr
tlllery, but wero unsuccessful, the "War
Ofllce says,
Three aeroplanes, ono British und two
French, have been shot down.
The oRlclal statement makes no men
tion of lighting in the Verdun bector, In
dicating that, a comparative lull exists
there, except for tho reciprocal fcannon
ftdes. I
The text of the official report follows:
"Artillery activity yesteiday was lively
on various partsof the front, especially
on the part of the.eneniy.
' ''At various points the enemy carried
Continued on Pace l'our, Column l'our
THE WEATHER
March lias come In like a lamb, so the
godd word Is to lay in a supply of coal
to prepare against his Inevitable lion,
like departure, in recent years we have
been having a number of April snow
storms, the famous Hon and lamb not be
In confined to the Windy Month. But,
speaking generally, we have passed today
a critical point of winter stress and the
devotees of spring can feel with the ad
vent pf March an assurance of a constant
ly Increasing number of mild-mannered
days. Toduy Itself is mild and sunny.
Do you have to be told so? Like as not
you do. It Is not eaby to see the obvious,
especially when the obvious Is a good
thing. Sve have to be pinched to be made
aware of our good luek. But we never
hear of a man saying, 'This bad luck
that ia,s come upon roe la so incredible
that if some one does not pinch me I
Shall think I am dreaming."
Too many of us are born pessimists.
FORECAST
Cm. Phtlniltlnhia anil vieinitu
partly cloudy tonight; Thursday wi
Wttltd and f lightly warmer, wUh
snow or ram m the aftenugj gr
night, modtrat? nortnertym
tti
f & - TffiHl
r waassiss:. i
i U t&Sms8i?. S
llIIUII'llHIIMWHM p 1
COUNT HAESELER
Veteran of the Franco-German
War of 1870, aged 85, who is now
directing the bombardment of
Verdun with heavy guns. He
has devoted years to a study of
the Verdun region.
ZEPPELIN RAIDS
DRIVE RECRUITS
INTO TRENCHES
Men of Bombarded Mid
lands Take King's Shill
ing, Ellen Adair Says
TELLS TRAGIC TALES
"Scattered all over England
there are rumed homes and new
made graves. But though the Zep
pelins have filled many graves,
they have also filled thousands of
khnki uniforms. and
Lord Kitchener's repeated calls for
recruits have never been more po
tent than this tcrriblt menace from
the heavens!" Ellen Adair.
By KLLtiN ADAIR'
Written SpeUulls fur Uvimmi I.tixjeh
SHEFFIELD, Feb. 11.
Tragedy has swept over the Midlands
and southeast counties of England, and
wheio tho bombs fell In tho great air raid
thero Is bavoo and desolation
No panic nor teals yet tho result of
the Zeppelin attack Is twofold; tho young
men In the stricken counties aio flocking
with renewed energy to the recruiting
olllces, spurred on to don tho khaki und
avengo their mined homes and great In
dignation Is felt with the.Brltlsh authoii
tleH ut headquarters that warnings did
not Lome In time!
Thero Is much criticism of governmental
action. Ken the prospect of dying a high
explosive death "Just llko the bravo boys
In tho trenches" Is. In tho opinion of the
stolid Mldlandeis. Insultlclent compensa
tion for tho slaughter of cMllans nnd the
possible damaging of Industrial centres
which are of military Impoitiinco.
"Why didn't the authorities warn U3
of tho approach of Zeppelins?',' Is the cry.
"What use uie otilclnl Instructions ns to
taking 'hnnicdluto cover" when Govern
ment winnings are purposely withheld?"
But. apparently, authorities who are
lespouslble for the safety of the country
uro stIU detei mined that tho martyrdom
of civilians shall come as a complete sur
pilse to the victims. It Is true that "con
fidential" Information Is to be sent to the
chief olllcers of police In affected areas,
but local olllcl.'tls are solemnly warned
that "great caro should be exercised to
avoid giving public warning or taking
other action which will Interfere with
factories, etc., without practical certainty
of approach of hostile aircraft to the
vicinity "
The fear then of plunging a town need
lessly into total durkuess has led the
Continued an I'UKe l'our. Column Two
I. W.W. USE DYNAMITE
IN SCRANTON STRIKE
Siloot and Blow Up Cars to In
timidate Cotll Mine
Workers
SCRANTON, Pa., March t, Dynamite
and pUtols were uud by rioting Industrial
Worker! of the World at the Greenwood
colliery of the Delaware and Hudson Coal
Company today when an attack was made
upon mjjMrii who refuted to Join the strike.
Many Swt were II red and u dozen can
In th j4llry yardti were blown up.
StaUiUWWln(fl were nuhd to the scene
and !W rf' were made. The mlno
la now undr armed guaids.
Set Home on Fire While at Play
l'h wailike fcp'rlt was Infused so
Mr ily 1" ho breast of four-year-old An-
i go!, Vauei. rt that ne iook some or mu
ii ipf '.an n drag wnj thla morning and
n, thim n the flames of a gas range
,, , ii ii' a' ion Kimball btreet A
rr.ia later b bedUotheu woie on fire
an, n,s 'JM 'vosa havea tne cmiu
Iron tjw-iJHfed by beating out Ue
.ij,-ie3 vK'g Neitbei wg nor
! loss was trj
WILSON WILL
GET VOTES ON
SI
Ready to Help Him Main
tain Nation's Honor,
Chairman Flood Says
LEADERS IN CONFERENCE
Will Indorse Position That
Americans Should Not Be
Warned From Vessels
WASHINGTON, JInrch 1 "President
Wilson's hands will bo supported by Con
gress, l'ven men who believe that a reso
lution should pass Congress calling upon
Americans to stnv off nrmeil hIiIum durlnir
the present stage of the l'urcopean nr
"in urn pin memspivcs in ino position oi
repudiating tho positions assumed by
President WilHon which ho says Is made
necessary to maintain tho nation's honor.
Tho House Foreign Affairs Committee will
lireparo a resolution today Indorsing tho
President's position, It wilt bo reported
under a special rule which will permit It
Immediate consideration. I am certain
that such a resolution will be passed."
CLARK AND K1TCHIN TO AID.
Following the conference nt tho White
House, which lasted for moro than an
hour, Ileprcsentatlvo Henry Flood, of Vir
ginia, chairman of tho House Foreign Af
fairs Committee, made the nbovo state
ment. The conference was nartlcloated In
by Flood nnd Senators Stono and Kern.
At tho end of It, Speaker Clark and
House Leader Kltchln were sent for on
suggestion of tho two Senators and Flood
Thoy wero asked by the President to aid
the program, and are expected to do so.
It Is expected that as soon ns tho House
acts on tho proposition It will bo pushed
through tho Sonate Whether action will
bo taken today was doubtful, Flood said,
ns this Is calendar Wednesday under the
rules, and a single objection would pre
vent consideration of anything but local
measures.
HOT DCBATH IN SUNATK.
Immediately nfter convening today tho
Senate became embroiled In a hot debate
to break the deadlock over the Shields
dam bill and permit consideration of tho
Goro resolution.
Tho tension produced ly the President's
letter wuh evidenced ulicn a dozen Sena
tors took the lloor at once. Senator
Shields tried to get unanimous consent to
continue tho debate on his bill to tho ex
clusion of nil other business. After much
parliamentary see-sawing, tlic debate was
brought to an abrupt ending by Senator
Bheppard, of Texas, objecting to Shield's
unanimous consent proposal.
The plan of tho Admlnlstratloli 1eftdors"
now Is to movo to adjourn at tne close ot
he afternoon's session until noon tomor
row. Under the adjournment lulo It will
bo possible to bring up the Goio resolu
tion tomorrpw. This Is expected to pre
cipitate another fight.
Senators Kern and Stono conferred with
Senator Overman, chairman of tho Itules
Committee, just before tho opening of
today's session. In an effort to decldo
upon the course to be followed hi bring
ing tho Gore resolution to a vote at tho
earliest possiblo time. Senator Gore also
conferred with Kern and Stone, and said
afterward ho did not intend to try to
get his resolution before tho Senate to
day. All the conferences seemed only to
ndd to tho general chaos, and no definite
plan has yet been reached.
Tho International situation was not oven
remotely referred to In the debate on tho
Continued on l'nue live, Column Three
$87,000,000 LOAN
WILL BE ASKED IN
BILL TO COUNCILS
$35,000,000 of Amount Rec
ommended for Rapid
Transit Work
$31,000,000 ON CITY DEBT
Mayor Smith this afteinoon announced
that a loan bill would be Introduced In
Councils tomorrow for the borrowing by
the city of87.000,000.
Tho announcement followed a three
hours' conference between the Mayor,
Chairman Oaffney, of Councils' Finance
Committee, and tho members of the
Mayor's cabinet.
Of the 87,000,000, the Mayor said that
$35,000,000 was for transit, and J5.000.000
for port development. The sum of $31,
000,000 will bo to cover a list of unfunded
debt as compiled by City Solicitor Con
nelly, and of this sum $10,000,000 will go
to pay for land taken to make room for
the Tarkway.
The remaining $16,000,000 is for cur
rent expenses and other Improvements,
and includes an Item of $3,000,000 for the
Phlladelph a General Hospital, for which
tbeie is a'teady available another mil
lion. The hospital Item will be divided
between Blockley and the Home for the
Indigent Insane and Feeble-minded ut
Byberry.
Seven million dollars will be use.d to
meet tho needs of departments, current
expenses and past bills. This leaves
$6,000,000, the purposes ot which, the
Mayor tad he would not outline today.
They will be for perpianent Improvements
other than those specified.
It had been suggested early In the con
ference that an Item of $3,300,000 for the
elimination of the belt line In South Phil
adelphia might be switched from the un
funded debts to become a churge On the
Wharves, Docks and Ferries Department
for port improvements, but this could not
be done, according to Assistant City So
licitor Hmest Iowengrund, so the idea
was abandoned
The Mayor said ie would issue an in
vitation to the managing editors ot all
the Philadelphia newspapers to meet him
In his olllce on Friday at noon to discuss
the various phases ot the loan bill
$100,000 Loss In Chicago Mill Fire
CHICAGO, March 1 The uUudmf mill
and lathe nheps of the Jpekwijed & Strict
land sash and door factory were destroyed
by Art early today The la was $100,-
000,
HK1TISII STEAMSHIP, IN
DISTRESS, SENDS "S. 0. S."
Wireless From San Onofro Cnlls Ash
tabula to the Rescue
HALIFAX, N S , Mnrch 1 Tho Urlt
Ish steamship San Onofre, helpless In the
Atlantic, today Bent out wireless calls for
assistance "The "H OS" messages wero
picked up by tho British steamship Ash
tabula, which reported to tho Jlnrlno and
Fisheries agency hero that It was piocecd
lug to tho assistance of tho San Onofre,
but would bo unable to reach that vessel
beforo Thursday morning
Shortly afterward the Ashtabula re
ported that tho radiograms from tho San
Onofre had ceased, piobnbly owing to ex
haustion of Its power
Tho San Onofro Is a tank steamship of
9717 tons and Is owned by the Hnglo Oil
Transport Company, Ltd. It halls from
London, but recently has been sailing to
South America.
GERMAN U-BOAT
SANK PROVENCE,
FRENCHDECLARE
Crew Stood at Guns When
Auxiliary Cruiser
Went Down
1300 MAY HAVE PERISHED
PAItlS, March 1.
Gun crows of tho French auxiliary
cruiser La Provence, tho former trans
atlantic liner sunk In tho Mediterranean
last Saturday, remained nt their posts
while tho vessel was Blowly settling, hop
ing to get a shot at tho submarlno that
had torpedoed their vessel, but without
avail.
The Ministry of Marine, while announc
ing today that a submarine had sunk tho
ship, Issued a report lecelved from M.
Iloknnovvskl, a member of tho Chamber
of Deputies now attached to tho general
stuff of tho army of tho Orient, who was
on board La Provence.
"No periscope was seen clthor before
or after tho explosion," said M. Uoknnoskl
In his rcpoit. "Neither was there sighted
any wnko of tho toipedo or Jets of water
at tho moment tho explosion occurred.
"A very tlobo watch wsr kept. Tho
gun crews lemulned at their posts up
until the last moment."
The Ministry stated that La Provence
was being used to transport troops to
Salonlca when It was sunk. Art the ship
was able to carry more than 2200 per
sons. It tvns fcaied today that moro than
1300 of those, on board petlshcd when tho
vessel wns destroyed. Up to noon tho
number of known icscued stood at 870.
La Provence carried 11 guns, tho Min
istry of Marine stated tod ly
It was also announced by the ministry
that tho voyage of the French htewnshlp
-Due iPAilnihlo.Hwhloh readied' StarSellfea
yesterday, wa3 marked by an exciting pur
suit In the Mediterranean by a submarine.
Tho steamer was uble, after a long flight,
to elude her enemy.
A dispatch from Toklo today stated
that the Japancso naval authorities havo
received official advices that three niltlsh
steamships, one French and ono Swedish
steamship were sunk by Get man sub
marines In tho Mediterranean on Febru
ary 23 and, 2 1. The officials think that
this indicates an Increased number of
submarines operating In tho Mediter
ranean. A dispatch from Stockholm stated that
tho Swedish steamship Toborg has been
sunk In the Mediterranean by an Aus
trian submarine. Her owners weio noti
fied today that the crow took to boats,
wero picked up and landed ut Leghorn,
Italy.
Tho Toborg displaced 1222 tons and
was owned nt Landsloonu, Sweden
900 STETSON WORKERS
STRIKE; ALLEGE UNION
MAN WAS DISMISSED
First Walkout Since 1892 Stirs
Bis Plant When Soft Hat
Finishers Quit Jobs Say
Wages Decline
700 MORE MAY FOLLOW
The first Ml Ike at tho John B. Htetson
plant since 1892 was called this morning
by men In the soft hat finishing depart
ment, according to the men About '100
went out on strike Seven hundred are
still working but the Btrikers expect them
to follow.
Ninety per cent, of the men striking are
stockholders of the Stetson company, hav
ing gotten fatock bonuses in years past.
The reason for the strike, the nun say,
was the discharge of one of the woikers
In that department Ho Is lllwaH Vp
Peak, of 2110 North 2d street McPeak
when he was paid off Monday night, .as
told not to return.
Strikers say the teasoii he was dis
charged was because he was tiylng to
"organize" tho workers Stetson's is a
non-union shop and McPeak had hold two
organizing meetings.
Strikers say this is the compelling iea
son for the strike, though they have other
grievances.
For one thing, they bay, over since Stet
son's put in their own gas plant, there has
been considerable slcknes. Then, they say,
the men are gradually being reduced from
the $3 a dozen system of payment to the
$1.75.
Union men, they say. earn about $28 a
week or at least a minimum of $22 doing
the same work they do, while their uver
uge wage is ubout $18. Some years ago,
they bay, It was from $22 to $25.
The strike was called ut 10 a, m. The
men had been working some time, und bud
denly the news spread through the depart
ment that McPeak vyus ua longer one of
them. By some Strang coincidence they
quit In the big group of 900, and one out
side marched from 1th vtraet and Mont
gomery avenue, where Building No. 21 of
the plant is. up Front btreet and over Ken
sington avenue to Cumberland ' xtreet
where a meeting was. held and McPeak
was sent for.
Thre was some grim humor among the
strikers vvbn it was recalled that their
basebalj tfcim that ut the soft but finish
era had been the champion tetun of thu
IjtlerdfpartPient leagua and, therefore, the
guest of honor lost Saturday nlgfet at a
baoaust in the IlotsI W4tn, wh0rp ttut
1 "W '
CuaUcuci ea Ixc Xwp, Column Two
NEW DELIVERY
LOOP FOR CITY,
TWINING PLAN
Line on Ridge Avenue
From Broad Street and
Fairmount Avenue
ROAD TO ROXBOROUGH
Single Change Would Save Mil
lion nnd Half Dollars,
Say Experts
Proposed Changes
in Transit Plan
Eliminate Arch street wing of
subway delivery loop from Broad
to 8th streets.
Substitute subway line from
Broad street, Fairmount and Ridge
avenues down Ridge avenue to 8th
street.
Eliminate Locust street side of
Taylor loop and move northward to
Walnut street.
Continue westward on Walnut
street to lGth street, instead of
ending at Broad street.
Proposed Roxborough-Manayunk
line connected at 16th and Arch
streets instead of at northwestern
corner of City Hall, thereby saving
?i,noo,ooo.
Underground station platforms
connecting 16th and Arch station
with 15th and Market station of
present Market street line and the
City Hall station of Broad street
subway.
The Department of City Transit has
prcpaicd and will lay beforo Mayor
Smith plans which. If approved, will give
thu city the subway delivery loop along
tho general lines planned by former
Transit Director Taylor.
Tho subway loop as originally sug
gested by Director Taylor was taken as
tho basis for tho plans, but far-reaching
modifications havo been made. These
have already been discussed by the Mayor
and Director Twining, of tho Transit De
partment, and complcto drawings nnd
plans will bo submitted to the Mayor,
probably on Friday
Tho decision of Mayor Smith and Direc
tor Twining, of the Department of City
Transit, to change the lino of tho Broad
street subway so that It will run along
tho westerly side of City Hall, Instead of
under tho massive building Is, thereforo,
the llrst step of a series of modifications
And changes froinrtc- original plans now
under consideration' by the city officials.
This was learned today from a hource
which may bo regarded as authoritative.
The changes, it Is said, In effect will
save npptoximately $3,000,000 In the con
struction of the comprehensive system of
high-speed elevated and subway lines
planned for the city, will expedite the
through routing of cars from ono high
speed lino to another, will prevent traffic
congestion in the business district by a
central delivery system nnd, finally, will
facilitate tho ratification of an operating
agi cement between the city nnd tho Phila
delphia Ilapld Transit Company.
Tho major part of tho changes will bo
mado on the so-called subway delivery
loop, originally planned by former Direc
tor Taylor. These pluns met with bitter
hostility on the part of Cur.clls, and al
though Director Taylor felt that In letting
tho contract for the part of the Broad
Continued on race live. Column Six
EMBARGO MAY
FORCE TIE-UP OF
MILLS IN CITY
Shutdown of Many Plants
Threatened in 10 Days if
Ban Continues
SERIOUS CRISIS FEARED
Scores of the city's lurgest industrial
plants will be shut down within ten days,
throwing thousands out of work and can
celing hundreds of thousands of dollars'
worth of contracts, unless tho freight em
bargo is lifted.
This prediction was made today by a
number of reprcbentatlves of Philadelphia
concerns, who met ut the plant of S. L.
Allen &. Co , manufacturers of agricultural
Implements, 5th street and Olenwood ave
nue, to devise a plan to end what was
charucteilzed us the greatest Industrial
tie-up in the city's history Letters were
sent to every Industrial plant In the city
urging the Immediate emptying of freight
cars on sidings.
War inunltttons manufacturers and coal
dealers were held responsible for the
stagnation In freight movements, which
proventsthe Importation of ruw materials
necessary tn the operation of manufactur
ing establishments. The supply of raw
materials will be exhausted within 10
days, It was dn tared
Among tho concerns represented by traf
fic managers at the meeting were Henry
DIsston - Sons, Inc., feaw makers, Tacony;
S. U Allen & Co.; Thomas Potter & Sons
Company, Inc., oilcloth and linoleum man.
utacturers, 2d street and Erie avenue;
Hess-Bright Manufacturing Company, ball
bearings. Front street and Krle avenue;
Schaum & Uhllnger, Inc., textile machin
ery. 2d street and Olenwood avenue; Pe
coru Paint Company, tth street and Sedg
ley avenue, and the Scott Paper Company,
7th street and Olenwood avenue.
"Plants will be forced to close down
within 10 days because of lack of raw
materials," said V". B. Grieved, traffic
manager for S. U Allen & Co. "We
ourehas are unable to get raw steel.
The shutting down of these concerns
will mean thousands of men thrown out
of work and forfeiture of contracts
representing great sums. Nearly every
concern in Philadelphia Is affected by the
embargo, but the manufacturing plants
on the New York division pf (ha Penn
sylvania Railroad are jarUeularly hard
Ut.
"Tbe eity is facing the greatest In
dustrial tw.up in Its history. We find
tl csngesibui caused by the great quantl-
J'MI i ,HI
Coutlautd on Pugs Tnu, Column Ifivc
QUICK
" GIRL THIEF STRIKES GUARD AND ESCAPES
A
Margaret Gavnglmii, 18 yennt old, of. 423 South 17th ntreel,
luolte awny from n prohibition ofCicci, Mrs. Turner, nwl Mrs Gal
lagher, mntion of tho House of Good Shrpheitl, nn alio was Vj-luf
tukcii with her sinter into n slntioit of iw Miirkrf sttr-ct Mtbwn t
ill Kith sticct today,
escaped In the ciowd.
The gill
SUGGESTS SPEEDY PLAN TO RELIEVE FREIGHT TIE-TJP
At a meeting of the Philadelphia Commercial Traffic Managers'
Association today It was decided to ask nil concerns In the city af
fected to call out large forces of' men aud teams nud try to reudec
the number of stalled cars by half within the next 'IS lioufu.
WASHINGTON PARTY WILL
Announcement that tho "Washington
field for tho primary election may 16,
George F. Holmes, secretary of tho Washington Party City Committee. Nomlnatl
lngpapers for all offices from tho six
scmblcd tonight at the meeting of thd
The only Washington party candldato
Samuel U. Scott, who will run for the
legislative district.
MISS KENWORTHY TO PRACTICE IN FEDERAL COURTS
JIIss Caroline E. Kenworthy, of
admitted to practice law In tho Federal
vanla. She is associated with her father,
in tho Finance Building. Miss Kenworthy was graduated from tho Law School i
the University ot Pennsylvania last Juno.
"LEAP YEAR WEDDINGS" NUMEROUS
Chief Ferguson, of tho Murilago
combination" responsible for the C54
record. During the 29 days lust month 1B29 licenses were issued, while la
year only 97C were granted In February. In C2 Philadelphia homes thero jpj
c no weuuing anniversary tor tour
on the 29th. Mr. Ferguson says last
last year. Thero was a "slump" in
Mr. Ferguson blamed on tho war. Now,
jiil'icuse.
mi, smi ironiu ttf.pt?.
Tho British tramp steamship Spiraea, from this port, Is roportod to
ablnzo at Its pier in Manchester, Eng.,
cargo of moro than 1,000,000 gallons of
spiraea is an all-steel ship of tho Anclo-Amcrlenn Oil Cnmunnv. Ltd JiW
C. Gabriel Is tho Philadelphia agent.
with 1.108.9E0 gallons of oil, valued at
HOUSE COMMITTEE FAVORS FILIPINO "FREEDOM I
WASHINGTON, March 1. Independence for the Filipino moved ono step
nearer today. The Houso Committee on
Senate bill with the Ciarko amendment
four yeurs. Republicans voted solidly
DIAZ REVOLT BACKED
EL PASO, Tox., JInrch 1. Adherents of General Felix Diaz. Instigator ol
the newest revolution in Mexico, assorted that the Diaz movement has a funl
of $10,000,000 In gold in the United States, also the backing of the Clerical part!
in Mexico, and that he has at leu3t 20,000
BODIES OF SEVEN MORE
LONDON, March 1. Bodies of seven moro victims of tho mine explosion
that sank the liner Maloja wero picked up In tho sea off Dover last night
The list of bodies found now totals 59.
ITALIANS DEMAND WAR AGAINST GERMANY
HOME, Jlrch 1. A stiong purty
a declaration of war against Germany
Salandra was expected to Inform Parliament of the results of the recent vlsll
of the French Prime Minister to Home
war declaration Is expected for beveral
ences at the Foreign Ofllce.
FORD TRIBUNAL TO CALL PEACE CONFERENCE
COPENHAGEN, March 1- The Ford
issue a call for a neutral conference
Stockholm dispatches today. Formal
nation for its co-operation. Belllguout
delegates to attend. Ford leaders ussort that they will have the active attj
of the Swedish Government.
SALOONS CLOSED
HAHUISHUHG, March 1. Drinking
today, duo to the failure of the court to renew the licenses which expired at mldl
night. Remonstrances weio filed agulnst all of them, and the Judges have nol
completed a review of the testimony.
CRIME IF U. S. JOINS WAR, SAYS TISZA
BUDAPEST, March 1. "For the United States to tako part In the Europear
war would be a crime ugalnst humanity," s.ild the Hungarian Premier, CountJ
Tlsza, in an Interview published here.
than this the relations of tho Central Powers with the United States.
FEBRUARY BUILDING OPERATIONS WORTH $2,437,750
Tho amount of money expended for
ended has been exceeded only twice In
total for Februury, I9IU, was $2,437,750.
un olllce building to be constructed ut
dwellings. This year's Februarj total
$1,730,000 IN DUTIES COLLECTED HERE IN FEBRUARY1
Duties collected in the port of Philadelphia during the last month amounted
to $1,730,000, u gain of $1,020,000 over
to the large shipments of sugar from
INCOME TAX RETURNS
Fifty per cent, penalties will be added
tax payments duo the Federal Government unless returns are mode to thaiincoind
tax dlviblon of the United States Internal Revenue otilee today Collectoj
Lederer will keep the office open until
who havo neglected to make statements-
ZEPPELIN BELIEVED DESTROYED
LONDON, March 1. A Copenhagen
that, following several explosions in the
burning mass, behaved to huve been a
WHITE STAR LINE BARS
Nraw xoK, Murw l -Tber win
pasengeru of any liners of the White
llsh port until April 12, when the LapJatwi is scheduled to leave here This
admitted at the White Star offices. While no ulilciul anneueroeiit Vtts
a representative of the line, said the
announced latwttlon of effiiuung her new
night. He hold It was dipt to th fiux
taksa over by the British Government
NEWS
Mil nek Mih, Ttirifr in l-n p"- ml
NAME COMPLETE TICKET!
party would put a complete ticket in th
was mado today by County Commissions!
congressional districts down, will bo
City Committee at 217 South Drond streci
to announce his lncntlons thtis far il
nomination ns representative from tho lCti
4833 Cedar avenue, this afternoon wil
courts In tho Eastern District of Pennsyl
Joseph W. Kenworthy, who has office
License Bureau, holds the "Cupid-19l
gain In marriages over the February, 1911
years, as es young persons wero man-
month was almost as popular as Julia
February, 1916, compared with 1914. This
ho says, leap year causes the prcscntJ
jm
ATTTnrc ttm tit?tttcjtt prvnT '
whero it arrived on February 21. T
oil Is said to bo a complete loss.
It left Philadelphia January Slladenl
$113,238.60.
Insular Affairs reported favorably the
providing for Independence in two or
ugalnst the bill, tho vote being 11 to 1,
BY $10,000,000 IN U. S.
armed followers In southern Mexico.
MALOJA VICTIMS FOUND
In Parliament was prepared to udvocata
when the sessions opened today. Premlea
No action by tho party favoring
days, ponding the outcome of confea
permanent pcuco tribunal has voted tJ
designed to end tho war, according t
il quests will be mado upon each neutr
Powers will also be asked to alloy
IN DAUPHIN COUNTY
places wero ctosed in Dauphin Count!
The Premier declined to discuss furtheil
building work during tho month Jusi
Februury during the last 10 years, Thl
Of Mils sum 1275,000 was expended fq
16th and Walnut streets and $1,666,300 fo
was exceeded only hi 1906 and 1915.
February, 1915, The Increase was dui
Cuba.
MUST BE MADE TODAY
to all Individual and corporation incon
midnight to accommodate those peraofi
dispatch to the Dally Mall today report
air south of Jutland Sunday, a great
Zeppelin, was seen to fall
PASSENGERS TILL APRIL 12!
be no sailings from New york, I
Star fleet to Liverpool or any oOiw Wl
deisian had ne baarlHg on HUte
BUbmarla Migpeign at MidnigM
that may yjnifc ot tttf hid
to carry jmipUtoa.
m
