MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Feb. 2327 Cents.
WEATHER
Arizona rain south
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 237.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, MARCH 1, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
site 0 twtt
Mill? ST
VERDUN IS
GROWING
WEAKER 1
BUND MAN WINS
CONGRESS SEAT
French Are Using Their Ar
tillery to Break the German
Preparations for Further
Offensive Against City.
VOSGES MOUNTAINS
SCENE OF FIGHTING
Drive of the Teutons Said fo
. Have Extended Over a Dis
tance of Twelve Miles. Of
fensive Not Completed.
LONDON', Feb. 29. With lessening
activity by the contending forces,
north of Verdun, the French, in the
Wocvre region, east of , Verdun, are
using artillery to break the German
preparations for a further advance on
the fortress. At the various points,
the French fire has prevented the
Germans from launching offensives.
In the Vosges Mountains there is
also great artillery activity by the
French near Semones and Ban de
Sapt. Near Seppois the German?
were driven out of the trenches, prev
iously taken. In Champaigne, the
German fortified works in the region
of Hill 193 were battered by French
guns and a crater mine exploded by
the Germans in a trench occupied by
the French. The Germans added sev
eral points to their terrain fighting
about Verdun and were enabled to
construct trenches on the , slopes
north of Cote duToivre and the cap
t ture of an armoured work northwest
of Doaaumout. They have taken tlie
towns of Manhuelles and Chaniblon,
thirteen miles southeast of Verdun.
In the Drive east of Verdun the
German advances extended along a
front of virtually twelve miles, from
Dieppe to Chaniblon. Berlin reports
the prisoners at 228 ofiicers, dver 16.
000 men. a large number of machine
gHns and much war material.
l jj Sir
1 C
1 f
V ' j
' Tbn-.. 1 Cb.ll I
t
BILLS ABOUT!
TEN KILLED WHEN NEW HAVEN ENGINEER TRIES TO MAKE UP TIME I
READY FOR i
PASSAGE I
1
Preparedness Campaign is Ex
pected to Enter New Phase H
Next Week Whn Two Bills ; 'j
will be Introduced.
y -.. , jf
GREATEST PEACE TIME -ARMY
CONTEMPLATED
Thomas D. Schall. of Minneapolis,
Minn., is blind but in spite of this
handicap he is the ne representa
tive of the tenth district of hit state
in congress. Mr. Schall, a Progres
sive, was , born in Michigan in 1877.
SHIP BUILDING
GREAT
Prosperity Returns to Indus
try Long Dormant; Pana
ma Canal, Submarining
and Export Factor.
CHICAGO. Feb. 29. The shipbuild
ing industry on the Great Lakes, after
lying dor-rant more or less for half a
decade, is enjoying a revival of pros-
Admiral Knight Continues
His Testimony Before the
House Naval Committee.
Urges Haste in Building.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 29. The pre-'?
paredness campaign will enter a new'
phase next week. In all probability,
bills providing for increasing the aruiyj
an extent never before contemplated;
in time of peace will be introduced,
.n both branches of Congress ihcr !
The House Military Committee, - to
morrow, will begin a final review, ol
the measures tentatively agreed upon,
which, it is stated, will be altered
only in minor details before being
favorably reported. The 'ir.al vote,
probably, will be taken Thursday.
The Senate committee has a.-.r-eed
only, to insert the general provision
for the federalization of the National'
Guard in the regular reorganization
measure, leaving the task of putting!
the legislation in final shape ror a
joint conference committee to which
the two bills will go. By its action,
the Senate made it possible to bring
out its bill next week.
Rear Admiral Knight continued his
recommendations before the House
Naval Committee that every facility
in the country should be employed to
hasten the construction of a fleet
'(I s 5. J - N w
1 .1 k T . x
1. 5
a 1
r
4
SUBMARINING
CRISIS IT
CRUCIAL
POIHT
V
t
Arrival of Date Named by the
- Germans for Increased Un
dersea Warfare Causes the
Gravest Anxiety.
: DEVELOPMENTS MAY
! FORCE U. S. ACTION
Dissension in Congress Ham
pers Wilson, Who Would
Put House On Record;
Berlin Gives Assurances.
, Coach and freight car in New Haven wreck at Milford. (inn.
In the effort of an engineer to make up lost time ten persons were killed and forty-three other r ersons were
injured when two New York bound trains in rear collision were sidewiped by a freight on the New York, New
Haven and Hartford railroad. It is estimated that the wreck will cost $500,000 at least in the settlement of
J 1 '
ARMED SHIPPING !
TO ITALIAN
SEAPORTS
two nations
the ,
equal to those of any
except England.
American policies, such as
Monroe Doctrine, Asiatic exclusion,
the control of the Panama. Canal and
the onpn door in China, he daclareil.
constitute a great and growing threat l Ila,ian merchantmen appears
Fleet of Merchant Vessels,
with Naval Guns on Board,
Piies- BtlAVvi Mediterran
ean and New York.
PENSIONS GO HIGHER.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 29. (
Pensions of not less than $20 a
month to all I'nion Civil War
veterans of seventy years or
more were proposed in a bill
favorably reported In the
House. The measure will also
increase from $12 to $20 the
pensions for widows, an In
crease of several millions.
NEW YORK, Feb. 29. A fleet of
I Buffalo. N. Y Chicago and smaller
There 1j considerable arrtillerv and ' Great Lake ports.
air activity by the British and Ger-j Th oPninK of 'he Panama Canal,
mans along the front in France and I ,h1 activities of submarines and the
Belgium. In the Dvinsk regiou. in J healthy increase in exports are con-
Russia, the Russians have driven the
Germans back to advanced lines and
put dow na counter attack.
perity, according to reports from ship- OI 'ar unless adequate preparations
yards at and near Cleveland, O.. Ue-are niade uphold them.
. s. fi-j. - rv..i...u :... i Knifi-ht said it would remiire thirtv
iron, ..inn., juiruu, v., iwuin, " " - - ffu,.Hv.. ot mi.tnioht Rrlliuh
months to make the navy enicient . - --:
ana rrencn snips wnirn arrived ,nere i
. to be the only snipping plying be
j tween American and European ports
: is menaced by the Teutonic submarine
! enoueh to meet the nresent German '
1 i onil , rt li i I (l i f i . . rT A i .1 n.,
fleet with any hope of success. The!"'" "l
time limit he set. was the minimum
carry guns. Seven Italian ships had
sidered the immediate causes of tho
sHpruilding boom. The claim is made,
v.'ithout denial from the builders, that
old ships and vessels now under con
struction are bringing better prices
than in many years.
i his Doom win oring minions 01 aoi-1 .ax
. ... . ,u . , of loO oflicers, fifty two warrant ofh
it: i ui uusiiicsn iu iutr uutru ui ui
I shipbuilding companies, has created
' i . i .i . i 1.
rennirerl tn hnild nine battle crniseri I B1 "" ' ,
1 I . . I f .
(and eight fast scouts. He said it: ' ""
I If, t if :y ; If,
SaItioWf
?MMK 15
UIIIIIIUL.U IU j
STARTED
DRASTIC LAWS
j WASHIGNTON. Feb. 29. Results of
;ihe new Austro-German submarine
'campaign are awaited by the United
j Slates with grave concern. Although
under the new instructions the Teuion
! ic commanders are authorized to sink
without warning all armed enemy mer
chantmen. it is understood they have
been told to make sure, if possible,
!that no American citizens are aboard
jany ship attacked. Furhermore. in
!her latest communication, Germany
'has assured the United States that
new orders have been formulated to
"prevent destruction of enemy liners
;,-on account of their armament, unless
such armament be proved."
! The attitude of the government to
ward this new policy is not determin
ed Wilson discussed it with Lansin
'nnd then laid the German communica-
Temperance Federation Meets ,io" 'TJ cZ
. rni iril I i portant appendices prevented the cab
in rhoenuc. Will Inmate jnet from rf,athing a decision.
Legislation to Make Ari- ' Meanwhile, if any American is in
ZOna Absolutely Dry. .Wed by an ack of a submarine on
' a merchant ship which does not or has
no intention of using armament, oth
erwise than defensively, a grave sit
uation will arise.
The United State tsnds this time.
ADVOCATED
BYDRYS
CORRESPONDENTS TELL DETAILS
BERLIN. Feb. 29. Correspendents
to Berlin newspapers were permitted
to visit the ground gained by the Ger
mans at Verdun. They described the
effect of German artillery on the vil I new work for hundreds of men and al
lage of Haumont as a unique picture ready has caused the rebuilding of old
of fantastic destruction. The same is j yards and the planning of several new
true of Brabant. The correspondents i ones.
asserted the French field artillery was The demand is strong for both lake
so overwhelmed by the German guns and ocean veti8Pi8 and onlv the inabill.
they were frequently unable to make!tT of the hniIner8 to give assurance of
lufinseives oangerous. I tie uity or
Verdun suffered little
H W'l flW II tllA Woalrnoao t lh n mt 111...... 1
, , . " oien interests are prominent
f erdlln flirts u ntnniehlnr I
j the buyers. ,
I With the first clash of arms in Eu-
j rone, shipners saw the necessity for
obtaining boats quickly to carry mer
chandise to foreign and domestic
norts. One New York caDitalist ob
itained at least four huge Great Lake
package freighters. At the Welland
Cnrl these ships had to be cut into
sections before they could
the trip to the coast.
would take eighteen months to purItalian Thev have een plying Member of Brandeis' Law
Firm Takes the Stand to Ex
plain Certain Transactions
of Wilson Appointee.
the ships of the Atlantic fleet in full ! York and Mediterranean
active commission in readiness for ur,s b"v u,e ",Bl ,
rive others, in tne ie oik trane,
war.
Major General Barnett, commanding
the Marine Corps, urged an addition
cers and 2379 men to the corps to
bring it up to the strength advocated '
it is understood, have been measured
for armament to be placed -on their
next arrival at Italian ports. Local
agents for Italian lines declined to
discuss the new submarine orders.
WASHINGTON,
planation of the
Feb. 29. An ex
various charges
by the general board and approved by
Daniels, which is on a basis of one
fifth of the strength of the navy per-1
They said, in so far as they knew. I aKainst uise Brandeis, now being
there would be no interruption In investigated by the Senate Committee
j sailing dates. They stated they had 1 considering hU nomination for the su-
sonel.
received no specific instructions from ! prenlp eourt wag DeKU- by Edwarj
(ha hnniu nfTiiaa lt thu linps fir from (
I ... , ,. T, .. , McLeLennen, of Ilston. a member of
representatives of the Italian govern-1 , , , '
Counsel for the opposition put in as
evidence a photographic copy of a
check lor $10 to support the charge
FEDERAL RAILROAD CONTROL
WASHINGTON. Feb. 29.
Frank !
del'verv of the shins bv 1917 stands ! ......
The German . . . 'ITumDU II. cnairnian ot tne itauway r.x
l lie ''eniian.-1 in ,h . h j P i ,
among ;
ment.
TO RETIRE BONDS.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 29. The first
step was taken toward carrying out
the plans of the farmers of the Feder
al Reserve act for the substitution of
currency, based on the demands of i
commerce, for currency based on gov
ernment bonds in a letter to the Fed
eral Reserve Board, Secretary Mc
Adoo. announced his readiness to
provide for the retirement in the pre
sent year of $30,000,000 two per cent
bonds used by National Banks to se
cure note circulation. It is regarded
by the board as the most important
action the reserve system has taken
in many months.
The tremendous amount of shipping
thnt has gone to th bottom in the war
rone together with the fact that many
of the shipyards in England have been
turned over almost exclusively to
senting eighty-four percent of the rail
roads of the country, asked the House
Interstate Commerce Committee to
bring all activities of railroads under
purely federal control. .
"We are quite willing to help you
draft a law," he said, "porviding you
emancipate us from the states."
He said millions are going to waste , Germans twfeted the passage in
annually because of duplications, dis- j . ...i r.... .
Continue . Iiwuilirill, unrii uuui uaunuii
. I.1I.I.K.I.UII .,.u iniKiaimu wlirn tnev gaI1Ci mt0 meaning that
of division of authority over the rail-jmer(.hantm"pn have instructions to
roads " I take the offensive.
THE BRITISH VIEW.
invtKlV Wh. ?3 Answerlnir
queries as to whether merchantmen I Jnat Brandeis was paid by the policy
had been instructed to lake the of-i ,,ol""s of th tqu'U"' L,fe fo'
submarines. Lord 'i" "- vi
Hranrtels acted as counsel for the
fensive against
f'lail Miniutpr nf War Ti-ail sttprl! !
"The British view has always been I,oIit' holderi' association without
pay. wnicn nan tneir organization
headquarters In his office, and that
the check was from a policy holder
tne'for legal service regarding the taking
oi a casn surrender value lor a policy.
As to the charge that Brandeis was
that defensively armed merchantmen
, must not fire on a submarine or other
I warship, except in self defense. The
NEW PLOT POSSIBLE
WASHINGTON. Feb. 29. Reports
nra thnt o i-ot'iltit tnnarv nlfit npflinst
ships of war. has forced foreign buy-j.. ... , . ,
, . T ... Ifhe Nicaraguan government has been
ers to look to American shipbuilders
! fomented in New Orleans and would
ADVANCING ON VILLA.
EL PASO. Colonel Catio, one of the
ables aides of General Herrera, is
advancing sl.000 men upon Yilla'
u mr ,,-... uu,- hp launcned goon witn )hP pRrticular
je-s are ready to put up any ship for,,, of preventinlf tnP ratifioation
' I, , . , . !of the treaty with the United States
v leve ami ainne reports ine closing i . . .
, by the New Nicaraguan ( ongress.
employed by the New Haven or others
to wreck the New England Railroad
McClennen said the city directory
'showed Brandeis ceased to have any
ENGLAND S WAR COST ' connection with the litigation against I
LONDON. Feb.- 29. England s per- the New Haven in June. 1893.
sonal national expenditures for the cur ,
rent year will reach more than a bil-1 DIAZ IN MEXICO,
lion and a hnlf pounds, according to a I NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 29 Diaz
statement bv Resinnl McKenna. Chan- adherrents said they had advices that
cl!or of the Exctienuer. addressing i General Felix Diaz landed in She
of contracts for 46 vessels at an aggre
gate cost of more than $8,000,000 and
that negotiations are in progress for
I
IThev wer bmuuht to the attention of.
Who United States by General Chaniorrt
jthe "Nicaraguan minister. Agents of
the Association of the Chambers of
(Vnimerre of the United Kingdom.
H sid Enelnd had maintained .in
"imnnired credit' throughout the war.
stronghold in the Santa Ana region in P sh'P"- These orders are being j ,h(, imrimmi of JuKtirP were prob. ; Tho eovernment U nrenrel to give
western Chihuahua, according to the n,,eo al i-'veiano. iorao. i.orain ana abv ,nstruc,d fo wafrn Ni(.ara)!ans
commandant of the Juarez garrison.
General Gavira.
TO FACE TRIAL.
EL PASO, Feb. 29. Ceneral Argu
mendo, the captured rebel leader of
Durango, has reached Torreon, en
rottte to Q'leretaro for trial, accord
ing to Mexican consulate advices,
which stated that Zapata soldiers
surrendered at Cuerna Vaca. Car
ranza troops are moving into the
state of Morelos.
Ashtabula. O.. Manitowoc, Mich., and
Buffalo, NT. Y. The yards at these cit
ies are said to have all the business
now that they can handle during the
year.
The Toledo Shipbuilding Company
is working on an eastern order for five
schooners with auxiliary power plants
p he used in coastwise trade. A lake
assistance in developing foreign trade.
in New Orleans and other ports from
which shipments of arms might bl
made in violation of our neutrality.
STEAMFR WRECKED
MARSlflKI D. Ore.. Feb. 29. The
steamer Fifield. owned In San Fran-
SUBMARINES ACTIVE. : r'"r" ,vni ,n " hp,,vv SPa
TOKIO. Feb. 29-Japanese naval "inst the sc.--h iettv of Bandon Bar
authorities received an official di-, " ,h" n,",h nt ,hp river. Thn
natch ht throe British, one French Vf twentv-ono and throo passen-
and one Swedish steamer were sunk s,nrs "" receo nv tne nte saving
freighter 600 feet long also is being j by the German submarines in the nr. The vesselis almost a los
set up at Toledo. The total tonnage I Mediterranean last Thursdav. and Fri-; " was ' in.d at $1S0.onn. The
r.f the Toledo contracts is cald to ba
30.000.
Detroit renorts the receipt of orders
(Continued on Page Two.)
day. There have been numerous an-,-ii d t nrst snash tore a hole
nouncemnnts of the Finking of mer- strhoo-t snd he water rolled in so
chantment and vessels, presumably fat tt tho ongines were disabled al
by submarines. most instamly.
state of Vera Cruz last week. He was
joined by several thousand troops. He
intended marching to Oaxuca to .loin
ten thousand and begin a campaign
against Villa and Carranza. It is siiul j
the Zapanta troops will join Dim. It
Is declared several millions were pro
vided to finance the movement.
THOENIX. Feb. 29. (Special) A
large attendance greeted the opening
session of the State Temperance Fed
eration of Arizona today, in its meet
ing which will either make or break a b" always has. for rights of Amer
the temperauce cause iu the state oi i" r''ZPns to travel in safety on de
Arizona., ' fensively armod ships. If German con
John Wix Thomas, president of the tentions are sustained and it is proved
Federation, in opening the conference conclusively that a ship on which an
SBjd: American may be injured used defen-
"It Is the duty of this convention to'sjve armament for offense, it is con
outline a policy which will make it 'lered unlikely that this government
impossible to violate the dry amend-' ill take action. The United States
ment with impunity." Thomas urged, has never contended that ships eoni
in addition, absolute harmony and the mining attacks or under order o do
rule of the majority. jo, are immune from submarine d-
G. F. Rinehart. head of the camp- struction.
aign two years ago, sent a letter of
congratulation to the convention in WILSON IS HAMPERED
which be suggested laws providing for WASHINGTON. Feb. 29 President
no manufacture or importation of VViNon has decided he cannot proceed
liquor, for the destruction of all that with the German submarine negotia
is in the state and the election of t Ions while dissension or Congress
men who stand for the dry state. weakens his position before the world
The conseusus of opinion of the and so was called for a showdown on
convention appeared to be in favor of pending proposals to warn Americans
conservative action a majority feel- off armed ships. He wrote a letter to
ing, apparently, that radical action . Representative lou. . acting chairman
would do more harm than good, fh of the House Rules Committee, asking
spite of this feeling the convention him to provide means for bringing the
went wild when the chairman an- agitation to the open floor of the
nounced the railroad attorneys had de-: Hon? in full discussion and vote. Ad
clded against bringing any liquor into ministration leaders are so sure of
the state. The committee on law . their position that they plan to end all
ignored "possession and use" without agitation by a vote of confidence hi
a murmur from the delegates. Sheriff tho President.
Wheeler of Cochise county sent In a .Mu'ton of ne"dine resolutions
lette rasking for more laws. would amount nracticallv to Cnngres-
Thomas K. Marshall, of Tucson, sional repudiation of the policies con
was elected president. topded for by President Wilson
An executive committee, consisting throughout the submarine negotiations
of twenty members. 'and representing Their dofeit would strengthen the,
"every religious body in the state wai ,nnds of the President and show the
appointed. On this committee is Mrs. ' Germans that the nation is behind the
John Kinsella, of Lowell. G. M. President.
Roark. of Douglas, was named for a. pispntces from Berlin and Vienna
place on the resolutions committee nirturod Congressional agitation re
aid A. R. Bucknam of Bisbee. on the -, r(,r,ivpi ,hre inrfiratine that
the President did not have even the
""poort of his own nartv. .The imme
diate stiffening of the German deter
mination not to recede was announced
nurposes of a new submarine ram-
nominations committee
The convention will
work tonight.
conclude its
CALERO IN U. S.
SAN ANTONIO, Feb. 29. The ar
rival here of Manuel Calero. formerly
identified with Madem-Muerta
i.nrttes, traleing Incognito, placed the
SAN DIEGAN SUICIDES
SAN DIEGO. Feb. 29. J. O. Molli- pai)!n
son, a prominent real estate broker,
committed suicide by shooting. His
body was found in bushes in the cily
Some inspired statements from
Berlin bv hihet officials even ap
proached intimations of bad faith on
park. Heavy financial losses last year ,, pr,.,idonfs part because the Unit
are believed thP cause. ,! srat did not accept the view that
the Lusitania guarantees applied only
MAY ARM THE CRETIC !o shins earning no armament. The
BOSTON. Feb. 29. The possibility '. President's decision came, as a sun-
that th White Star Liner Crettic, on prise at the rnpitol. There were some
the way to Mediterranean ports, with ; expressions of dissatisfaction, particur
three hundred passengers, seven of:lrlv tn the House. It Is considered
hoin are Americans, will come with-! nrothln tii .otinn hr hnth hnnsei
r.-deral autnorltle-. on tl-o altf. I ney , jf) trmil o( Telonir pnH.ama. f , ne ukn Th,Ir,a.T.
are working apparently on r.-liahl- iu ,jon is now sucked. Although the!
formation that San Antonin i onejfj-etie left here without visible arma-1 SAN FRANCISCO. Feb. ?9. "Old
of the chief centers from which tliel,ent members of the crew said they I Nassau." the famous hymn of Prince
new revolution in Mexico will be di l expected to take aboard a four-inch ton. will be sung from New York tn
ricied. gun astern at Gibralta. 'Frisco by telephone on Friday night.
