I
|f
lr*
If'
THIS PAPER inued in
Two Section* Section
two— .1 to 8—Lo
cal news, 'stories, corre
spondence and Denison
locals.
VOL.51
TALK OF BONDING
THE COUNTY
Board of Supervisors Meet With Com
meicial Club and Engineer Fish
el to Talk Permanent Roads
MR. FISHEL OUTLINES PROGRAM
Endorses Plan of Bonding County
Method of Piece-Mealing Work
Is Very Unprofitable.
A most enthusiastic good roads
meeting was held at the Commercial
club rooniij on Thursday evening of
last week at the request of the mem
bers of the board of supervisors, who
are endeavoring to create a sentiment
in favor of bonding the county for the
construction of permanent roads and
bridges. Notices of the special meet
ing were sent out by the secretary.
Hoy E. Mote, and the club rooms were
packed with those who are interested
in good roads and tl^eir making.
Mr. .1. B. Lyon, president of the Com
mercial club, called the meeting to
order and in a short talk explained the
purpose of the meeting. County En
gineer H. B, Fishel gave those pres
ent an outline of the road and bridge
work done in Crawford county during
the past few years and lantern slides
were thrown upon the screen to show
the improvements in different sec
tions of the county that have been
made. Mr. Fishel is an exponent of
good roads and endorses the plan of
bonding the county to make the im
provements which are necessary. To
bring out this point he spoke of the
consolidated school proposition which
is coming into l'avor in the rural dis
tricts of the state of Iowa. Instead of
building a school, using each year's
allotment of school funds by first ex
cavating for the basement, the next
year laying the foundation and from
year to year going ahead with the
work as much as the funds will per
mit until the building is completed,
a district is formed and bonded for the
amount necessary to build a modem
school building properly equipped.
By bonding a district .for a consolidat
ed school it is possible to erect a
school much cheaper than if the work
is extended over a period of several
years and' then, too, the district gets
an immediate benefit from the money
expended. Mr. Fishel Stated that the
building of the highways of the state
of Iowa is* being done piece-meal and
that it will require years to complete
a system of roads that would be a
credit to the great state of Iowa. In
his opinion Crawford county could well
afford to issue bonds for in the neigh
borhood of $200,000 for permanent
roads and bridges and that part of
27-inch taffetas shown in the blue
and gold tripei, purple and while,
blue and white checks, and green
and red stripes, brown and figured
blues. In this lot there are 25 pieces
of silk to offer. Priced at 98c a yd.
4
THE
the expenses of tliis road system would
be borne by the future generations,
which will only be just. He is a lirrn
believer in hard surfaced roads and
believes that a movement should be
started for surfacing a few miles in
the county with gravel. Once a start
has been -ma'de, he believes that it
would only be a few years before all
of the principal highways would be
surfaced with gravel. Some of the
counties of the state have graveled
iheir principal highways and farmers
who own land adjacent to these roads
have paid a part of the expense. Mr.
Fishel believed that the farmers of
Crawford county would be more than
glad to pay their share of surfacing
the roads with gravel, for with a good
road they would be able to haul their
produce to market at all seasons of
the year and thus take advantage of
the high prices at certain seasons.
Most of the members of the Com
mercial club who were present at the
meeting seemed to favor the proposi
tion of bonding the county to build
permanent roads. Sentiment through
out the entire state seems to be run
ning in favor of' this proposition and
Crawford county should not lay back
and be one of the last counties in this
state to make improvements along
this line.
The board of supervisors of this
county has arranged for a meeting in
the new opera house in Denison oil
Thursday, March 9th, to discuss the
topic of permanent roads and bridges
and methods of financing the con
struction of same.
It is well to understand in the be
ginning that a permanent or hard sur
faced road does not necessarily mean
a paved road, in fact, a well built
gravel road is nearly as good a propo
sition, except for heavy traffic, as a
concrete or a brick road, and, perhaps
figures out better as a permanent road
preposition. Gravel roads, even in this
county where gravel is rather scarce,
can be built in accordance with best
practice at a cost of about $2,000 per
mile for 16 foot width, while concrete
or brick will cost about $12,000 per
mile* average, for same width. With
money to pay for both at 4'/2 per cent,
the saving of interest on difference in
first cost is $450 per year, enough if
necessary, to rebuild a gravel road ev
ery five years to maintain same as
permanent road.
The forenoon meeting will be for
the trustees and road (superintendents
of the oounty. all of whom are sup
posed and expected, as a part of their
duty, to attend. Mr.- Holden, one of
the three -members of the State High
way commission, will address tl\e
township officials in regard to their
powers and duties.
After dinner Mr. H. B. Fishel, coun
ty engineer, will tell the convention
(nnniinued on Paee Three)
You
CMC crochet cotton 7c a spool. In white, sizes
15, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 and 80 in colors of lavender,
blue, pink, yellow and ecru, in sizes 10, 30 and 50,
Inside skirt belting, 2 and inch width priced
at 5c a yard.
Snap fasteners, white and black, priced at 4c a
card.
Hooks and eyes, moist proof, 2 cards for 5c.
27-inch foulards. Blue and white
polka dot, old rose polka dot, navy
blues, gray and blue polka dots,
green and white polka dots. Priced
at 79c a yard.
N O I O N S E I A S
DEMAND
NO. VALLEY TIED
Triangle Debate Last Friday Results
in Denison Defeating Woodbine
—Mo. Valley Defeats Denison
TRY FOR SILVER LOVING CUP
Denison Debaters Acquit Themselves
in Creditable Manner—Denison
Team of College Size.
The triangular debate between Den
ison, Missouri Valley and Woodbine,
which is one of the principal events of
the year for high school students at
these three places, was held Friday
evening of last week ai Missouri Val
ley, Woodbine and Denison. The three
teams are competing for a handsome
silver loving ciiy, which was won last
year by Denison^ The debate Fridav
night resulted in a victory for Denison
at this place, but the team which went
to Missouri Valley was defeated, an-1
the result leaves the Denison and Mis
souri Valley high schools tied for
possession of the cup his year. The
question debated by the hig school
teams was: "Resolved, that a mini
mum wage law should be established
among the several states for unskilled
labor, constitutionality conceded."
The Debate at Denison.
Never before in the history of the
Denison high school has there been
as much spirit shown as there was
over this debate. A big mass meeting
was held £t the high school building
week ago, which was participated
by the members of the high school
faculty, alumni and students. A*big
parade, in which the senior and junior
high school students took part, was
an interesting spectacle on the streets
of Denison late last Wednesday after
noon, and the rousing high school
cheers and booster songs created the
most favorable impression among the
citizens of Denison, and the news
spread like wild fire that Denison was
in the contest to win and went far to
ward increasing the attendance on Fri
day evening. The debate was held
at the high school gymnasium, a mass
meeting being held, which created
much enthusiasm among the audience
High school boosters were seated on
each side of the gymnasium and kept
things lively throughout the evening
The Woodbine debaters championed
the affirmative side, their team being
made up of Miss Butler and Messrs.
Hunt and Cromie. Miss Butler was
a former resident of this county, hav
ing lived for a number of years at
Arion, and only recently making her
home at Woodbine. Mr. Cromie open
ed the debate for Woodbine and his
constructive speech Was a gem from a
27-inch messaliees shown in the
purple, yellow, blue, pink, tan, and
black and white striped which is
very fashionable. Priced at 79c a
yard.
Again Thursday, Friday and Saturday, and continuing to next Wednesday this store will demon
strate its finest merchandising service. This time it is in the interest of those who sew. Home sewing
has become intensely interesting to all women, from the mother who is now, by the aid of, patterns and
other helps, enabled to make charming frocks fov the children from big sister's out-grown dresses,
the society woman who enjoys fashioning her own wearing apparel.
Machine oil, Gc a can.
Basting cotton, 4c a spool.
.1 & Coates thread, (i spools for 21c.
Dress shields, white only. In all sizes priced
at 10c a pair.
Pearl buttons, plain and lisli eye, regular 10c
value priced at 5c per card.
Bias tape priced at 8c per bolt.
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 1916.
literary standpoint. It was well writ
ten and took well With the audience,
although the delivery was not quite
up to standard. The Denison contin
gent was rather fearful that the other
Uvo Woodbine debaters would come
up to the high siandard set by. Mr.
Cromie. John Norris was the first
negative speaker and he created a
most favorable impression upon every
one. John had his subject
well
well
prepared for the occasion. Mr. Hunt
the second speaker for the affirmative
followed next and his argument was
most effective, being logically .con
structed and save the Denison debat
ers much concern, seemingly having
anticipated the entire negative debate
and having at his tongue's end the very
facts and arguments which needed to
be hit hardest. Harold Poole .contin
ued the negative argument and he, too
acquitted himself in a very satisfac
tory manner. His speech showed care
ful research work, a clear understand
ling'of the question and was delivered
in a masterful manner. Miss Butler,
who closed for the affirmative, did well
considering the fact that she had been
working on the debate but for a week.
Alfred Faul closed the constructive
argument of the negative side and
struck conviction in the minds of his
hearers upon the undesirabilky of the
minimum wage. His delivery
was
(Continued Page 3.)
In Menagh's Garments You Will Find
The Mark of Outward Style and Inward Goodness
will find Menagh garments clothes of real character—suits and coats that express the true and ap
proved fashions. They area guarantee of quality excellence—pure wool or silk fabrics, tailored with the
utmost care in America's most modern tailoring establishment. You will be more than pleased with the
smart fit andsplendid service of garments that bear Menagh name. Look for them when you choose
your suit or coat for spring. You, too, may then know the pleasure of being fashionably and becomingly
dressed at moderate cost. Spring suits and coats in choice woolen fabrics or selected silks. View our
fashion display for this week. Suits $25 to $35* Coats $15 to $25.
We are confident that silks of such qualities at such low prices cannot be duplicated and invite comparison.
36-inch chifion poplin shown in
green, blue, gray, purple, black and
all the new street shades. Priced
$1.29 per yard.
...Economy in the Broadest Sense is Demonstrated During Home Sewing Week at Menagh s...
to
George Menagh and Company
BOWLING CASE
IS POSTPONED
Case of Ar.dy Bowling in Federal
Court at Council Bluffs is Post
poned Until September.
in
hand and spoke in a fre** and easy
manner and hammered facts at the
audience without a single pause. He
was perfectly at home on the platfor:n
*and it was evident that he was
DENISON WITNESSES AT HOME
Case Tried Once Before in Federal
Court and Covered Period of Sev
eral Days—Jury D'Sagreed.
The case of the government against
Andrew Bowling, which was to have
come up for trial in the federal court
at this) session, was postponed until
the September term of court on ac
count of the illness of District Attor
ney Claude R. Porter. The attorneys
of Mr. Bowling had asked for a con
tinuance of the case on account of the
change in the time of the spring term
and when the government counsel ask
ed i'or the continuance on account of
illness of the district attorney, there
was no objection from the defense.
This case has been tried once in the
federal court and covered a period of
several days, but- the jury, after de
liberating for a lengthy time, disa
greed. The case will be the first one
to be tried ut the September session.
ex­
ceptionally fine.
Tht- rebuttal was' easily in Deni
son's favor, the Woodbine debaters
having nothing but what is termed by
debaters as "canned dope," while Den
ison's team displayed much ability in
coming back at the arguments pre
sented by the affirmative in a master
ful and thoughtful manner.
The judges returned a decision of
three to nothing in favor of Denison
and one judge, in speaking of the de
bate after the close, stated that the
Denison team was college size and
one could hardly imagine that they
have received their training in the
public schools. The judges were Rev
Cresswell, of Logan: Superintendent
Bug, of Rockwell City, and Mr. Brake,
of Dunlap.
The entertainment was interspersed
by musical numbers rendered by the
boys' and girls' high school glee clubs,
and here again was manifested the
high standard of excellency which is
always noticeable in the entertain
ments of the Denison high school. Den
ison is favored with instructors who
believe in and are capable of supervis
ing the best of entertaiuments and
the one on Friday evening was no ex
ception, much credit being due Miss
Fannie Hayes and Miss Faye Cham
berlin, of the high school faculty, for
the excellent showing of the Denison
Mr. Bowling is charged with having
sent threatening letters through the
mails to Mr. George Naeve, of this city,
demanding that a sum of money be left
in a designated place. The govern
ment sent special agents to Denison
and after a thorough examination haij
been made Mr. Bowling was charged
with having written the letters. A
number of witnesses from Denison, in
cluding Mr." George Naeve, Roy E
Mote, Sheriff H. J. Cummings and oth
ers interested in the case, were in
Council Bluffs the fore part of the week
expecting to testify in regard to the
matte:'.
Hon.' Carl F. Kuehnle is kept busy
filling engagements, fo speak these
days, and in fact he is unable to ac
cept many of the invitations to deliver
addresses that have been tendered
him. I-ast week he spoke at Sheldon.
Spirit Lake, Rock Rapids, Sibley anil
Spencer. His campaign is booming
and everywhere the sentiment seems
to be turning in his favor.
We have been requested to announce
that the suffrage society will hold a
tea at the Carnegie club roam on Sat
urday afternoon of this week from 3
to 6 o'clock. A very enjoyable pro
gram of readings and music has been
arranged and a silver offering will be
taken. Everyone is cordially invited
to attend the meeting whether inter
ested in suffrage or not.
Figured and striped poplin. A
very fashionable material shown in
navy blue, light blue, gray, beauti­
fully figured and satin striped.
Priced at $1.69 a yard.
Pretty Egyptian tissue, non slirinkable. Shown
in ligure checks and stripes, and pink, blue, lav
ender and green colors. Regular 30c to 35c grade
priced at 19c a yard.
Marquisettes shown in the season's newest
shades. Plain colors in black, tan, navy, wisteria,
Copenhagen, taupe, brown and old rose. The entire
lot is priced at 39c a yard.
Fancy floral aiid striped marquisettes priced at
39c a yard.
Beverly batiste, 30-inch width." 825 yards to of-
REVIEW
BABY WEEK IN DENISON.
Program Prepared by the City Feder
ation to Be Carried Out at the
Carnegie Club Rooms
In accordance with the plans of the
National Bureau of Health, the first
week of March will be given over
largely to child welfare work. A pro
gram which has been prepared by our
City Federation is as follows:
Friday evening, March 3d: Enter
tainment by children of Whittier
school. Address on Dietetics, Jacob
Sims. Music.
Sunday, March 5th: Child Welfare
day in the churches.
Wednesday, March 8th: Entertain
ment bv pupils of north brick and cen
tral schools. Address on Oral Hy
giene, Dr. B. F. Philbrook.
These programs will be given in
the club room at the library and there
will also be three exhibits: Library,
in charge of Miss Meyers: Health, in
care of the Current Events club, and
the dental exhibit in connection with
Dr. Philbrook's address. Fathers and
mothers, teachers, all who are inter
ested in child welfare are cordially
invited to attend these programs
which are entirely free.
LAST GAME OF THE SEASON
Denison High Sthoot Defeated by Jef
ferson Saturday on Home Floor—
Strong Team Next Season.
The last basketball game of the sea
son for the local high school team was
played in the gymnasium Saturday
evening with the fast Jefferson quintet,
which resulted in a victory for the Jef
ferson team, the score being 49 to 28.
The Denison boys had little hopes of
wrestling a victory from Jefferson as
it is generally understood to have one
of the fastest teams in this part of the
state. It was a good clean game
throughout and although Denison was
outclassed they made an excellent
showing. AVliile Denison did not win
a majority of their games this season,
the team has played good basketball
and everyone feels satisfied with the
season's efforts. Next year's team will
undoubtedly prove stronger than the
one this season as there will be some
•strong material available.
Try a Review want ad and watch it
bring results.
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Scrlver returned
to Denison last Wednesday evening
from Rochester, Minn., where they
went to consult -specialists in regard
to Mr. Scrlv-er's health. It was de
cided not to operate on him for the
present at least, and he was given a
strict diet to follow. We are glad to
report that his condition has shown
marked improvement during the past
week. ft
36-inch crepe de chine, all silk,
in all the new street shades.
Shown in blue, red and green, pink,
Copenhagen and lavender. This is
a very heavy weight, closely woven
and regularly sells at $1.75 a yard.
Priced for this week only at $1.19 a
yard.
A DISPLAY OF NEW WASH GOODS that give one a feeling that spring is here. 10,000 yards of
new weaves, patterns and combinations most pleasing to the eye, and offered during our Home-Sewing
week at prices that mean a saving of from 20 toJ0 per cent on each purchase.
fer at this time. The .colors are blue, pink, laven
der, black and white, and blue striped. Regular
isilMIsS
Read Opening Chapters
of "Trie Girl and the
Game" in this issue.
Pictures March 8th.
No. 9
REACHES DEPTH
OF 1745 FEET
Drillers at New Deep Well Instructed
to Go Deeper—Test of Water
Flow Not Satisfactory.
THE QUALITY IS OF THE BEST
Drillers Go Through 50 Feet of Sand
stone. but Pumping Test Only Reg
istered 125 Gallons Per Minute
The new deep well is now drilled to
a deptli of 1745 feet and is still being
sunk deeper :n uopes• that a better
flow of water will be forthcoming. On
Friday a test., was made of the well by
pumping and the capacity of the well
was found to be 125 gallons per min
ute. As this does not come up to the
requirements of Denison the council.
upon the advice of the engineer, ha*s
directed the drillers to proceed and
sink the well to a depth where the sup
ply will be greater. The well is now
through 50 feet of sandstone and the
water is of a.very high quality. Sam
ples of it were brought up town and
those who tasted it state that it was
even of better quality than that which1
is now pumped from the. shallow wells
without a trace of mineral matter.
Some people are of the opinion that
the new well should not be sunk deep*
er for fear that the quality of the wa
ter at a deeper level would not be de
sirable. .It is said that Dunlap's deep
well is not as deep as the new one at
this place and the water there tastes
of minerals and is anything but pleas
ant to the taste. Of course if the well is
not sunk deeper it might be necessary
to drill another deep well in order to
supply Denison's needs and this of
course wpuld be more expensive than
to go aliead with the present one until
an adequate supply is found.
The County Equal Suffrage associa
tion has established headquarters at
McKim hall, which is open from 2 to 5
o'clock in the afternoon and from 7
until 9 o'clock each evening. Good sut
frage literature will be found there
and all those who are interested are
invited to call and take advantage of
the opportunity to secure it for local
use in different parts of the.county.
Attorney Clement J. Welch has been
confined to his room in the LaSalle
hotel in Chicago with an attack of
quinsy. He was stricken while on a,
business trip east, ft was feared for
a while that he would develop dlpb-i.
theria, but under the skillful treat-!
ment of a Chicago throat specialist
that condition has been avoided and
it is expected he will be able to leave
Chicago for home Thursday night.
6860
36-inch taffeta shown in navy,
black, tan, Copenhagen and taupe.
Priced at $1.18, $1.29 and $1.49 per
yard.
15c value priced at 9o a yard.
Rice cloth in plain white, stripes and checks.
Priced at 17c a yard.
Colored madras in stripes, shown In blue, brown,
old rose and white. Priced at 17c a yard.
Book-fold poplin, 36-incli width in white, green
and tan. Priced at 39c a yard.
Striped pongees, 32-inch width in all colors and
patterns. Priced at 29c a yard.
ts.y
$
3
•Aft
'1
1
A
'"H
-:-/j
'Pi
-"'3
•. -4
•"•.-J
