Congress Will Bring Armed Ship Agitation to End With Demonstration of Unity
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
I Y Y ~V\T V„ 1(l BY CARRIER «! CENTS V WEEK.
LAAAV— AO. -to higgle copies 2 cents.
FORCES OF CROWN PRINCE ARE
HAL TED A T INNER DEFENSE OF
VERDUN; FURIOUS
Armies Are Deadlocked; Commentators Do Not Know
Whether German Drive Has Spent Its Force or
Whether Pause Is Prelude to Renewal; French An
nounce Signs of Teutonic Preparation West of Metz
Intermittent Bombardment Along Front Daring Night; In
dications Point to Resumption of Aggressive to
the South; Situation North of Fortress Is Satisfac
tory, Paris Announces; U-Boat Campaign Opens
The German offensive against Verdun, which had brought the
Crown Prince's armies up to the inner lines of French defenses, has
halted there, according to to-day's official statement from Paris.
The lull which yesterday gave signs of setting in now extends<
along virtually the entire front where the desperate struggles of the I
past week and more have been going on. There were no important I
developments at any point during the night, the French war office j
reports.
Unofficial commentators in entente
i apitais admit themselves at a loss to
determine as yet whether the German
drive has spent its force or whether
the pause, is simply the prelude to its
renewal before the hard-won position
al Verdun or elsewhere on the front.
Possibly significant in this connec
tion is the French official statement
that there arc? signs of German prepa
ration behind the front west of Pont-a-
Mousson. eighteen miles southwest of
Metz and in the Moselle river region.
The French guns have been pounding
the second and third line German po
sitions here, while an intermittent
bombardment has been going on at
■v ftrions points between Regnievllle and
liemenauville. some half-dozen miles
west of Pont-a-Mousson.
To-day's bulletin from Berlin con
firms the French account of infantry
inactivity along the front, the Ver
dun operations not being mentioned in
the official statement. It is announced,
however, that the artillery particular
ly that of the allies was notably ac
tive in various sections of the front,
the region between the Meuse and the
Moselle, the Catnpagne and Yser re
gion being particularly mentioned.
The bringing down of three allied
aeroplanes by the Germans was an
nounced.
Apparently the recent German at
tack in the Champagne was nothing
more than one of the numerous local
operations such as the Germans car
ried out in several sectors of the front
from time to time in the three weeks
preceding the Verdun offensive, as it
fas not so far been followed up. Dis
patches indicate the opinions of mili
tary observers that the German offen
sive. if it broadened appreciably, would
be more likely to spread to the south
than the north, the many signs of ac
tivity along the lines in upper Alsace
and down to the Swiss border being
pointed to in this connection.
Paris dispatches declare the sit
uation north of Verdun satisfactory to
the French, who have strongly forti
fied their positions from rote du
Poivre, four miles due north, to Dou
numont. three miles to the east, along
which line the German pressure above
Verdun has been heaviest.
To-day marks the opening of the
new German submarine campaign in
which armed merchantmen are to be
considered as warships and treated
accordingly.
Steadier Sunk
A report that the British steamer
Thornaby, of 1,782 tons, had been sunk
came this morning front I-ondon, but
the dispatch did not reveal whether
the reported sinking occurred before
or after the new order became effeet-
Iv or whether the vessel was armed.
In the Italian parliament, which re
assembles to-day, it is expected that
the question of a declaration of war
by Italy against all the forces of the
entente powers would be brought up.
Italy has never declared war on Ger
many.
Russians Expect War •
Expenditures to Reach
11,000,000,000 Rubles
By Associated P**ss
Petrograd, March I.—The budget,
I THE WEATHER
For Ilnrrlaburg and vicinity! Fnlr
to-nlgbt I lonnt trmperaturr
about M dfiti*f»s Tburailuy nn
arttlrd. probably mow or rain)
warmer.
For Kaatern I'eunaylvanla i l'nrtlv
cloudy to-night ; Thtirailny, unoiv
or rain and witrmrr; moderate
northneat to nortbrnat wlnda.
River
The Staaqurhannn river nnd all Ita
'rlbutarlra will fall alowly or re
main nenrly alatlonnry. A at age
of about 4.11 fret la Indicated for
Ilarrlaburg Tburaday morning.
(General Condition.*
The atorm that win central along
the Mouth Atlnntlr coaat, Tnraday
morning baa panned olf ■rnnanl
nltbout nny more precipitation
except along the North Carolina
coaat- :ind In Northern Florida,
where aomr rain occurred.
Weather condltlona are uiiarttled
over the weatern half of the
coantry.
It la 8 to 24 degreea colder lu Colo
rado, IVebraalca, the Uakotaa,
Wyoming, t'tafa and Montnua
and aomewhat colder In the Kaat
flulf Ntatea. the Carollnaa,
Northern Florida and In the Lake
Hcglon.
Temperature: S a. ni„ %
Null! Itlaea, 0:37 a. »N.i aeta, 5:58
p. m.
M«xm: Xew moon, Mnreh 3, 10:58
n. m.
Itlvrr Stage: 4.11 feet above low
natcr mark.
Yeaterday'a Weather
lllgbcat temperature. 34,
l.oweat temperature. UO.
'lean temperature. 27.
Normul temperature, a..
| presented to the duma yesterday, i
showed an ordinary estimated reve- (
nue of 3,022,049.318 rubles and an .
] estimated ordinary expenditure of '
3.232.463,698 rubles. The extraordinary !
expenses due to the war amounted to j
8,000,000.000 in 1915 and are expected
to reach 11,000,000.000 in 1916, if the!
war last the entire year. The latter .
expense, together with the budget
deficit, must be received by means of
credit operations..
Th lln-ince minister, Pierre Bark.
[Couiiuucd oil Pago III.] '
Plans of U. S. Forts
Found on Two Young
German Army Officers
By /IssocioteJ Press
New York. March 1. Plans of,.
United States fortifications have been
found In the possession of Richard £
von At end and Rudolph von Kracht.
two voting Germans arrested here on
a charge ot' operating the mails to
swindle, according to a statement;
made to-day by Assistant United j
I States District Attorney K. W. Mc-!
Donald. Von A rend and Von Kracht,
, who claim, according to the Federal
authorities to be German army lieu
tenants were arraigned before a Unlt
-1 ed Sitaes commissioner here to-day.
j Von Arend and Von Kracht were
i held in ?5,000 ball each for a hear
i ins Saturday. They denied ever hav
! ing had any plans of American forts
land said the only things answering
I such a description that they owned
were pictures sent them from Ger-1
many by relatives.
Commissioners Confer
on Mothers' Pension
Plan With Miss Glenn i
\ if Dauphin county means to share
in th:- mothers' pension plan action
must be taken before May 30. as that
1 is the time limit upon which partici-
pal ion is permitted by the State.
Whether or not the county com
missioners will go in for the movement
v.-::l likely lie considered Friday as
the commissioners got some first hand
tips on the problem this afternoon
In a conference with Miss Helen
Glenn, superintendent of the State
mothers' assistance fund.
Siegel Is Rearrested as
Term at "Pen" Expires
By Associated Press
Rochester. X. Y., March 1. —Henry j
Siegel, New York banker and depart- ;
ment store merchant, whose ten !
months' sentence in Monroe county 1
penitentiary expired to-day. was re
arrested this morning by Sheriff,
George H. Root, of Livingston county, ;
on a warrant issued yesterday by Dis- 1
trict Attorney Wheeler, of Livingston
county. With his attorney, Dallas C.
Xewton, Siegel was taken before Jus- I
tice George A. Benton to arrange for
bail.
AGED CO VIM j: FOUND DEAD
By Associated Press
Reading, Pa., March 1. Michael'
1). Yonng, ased 68, and his wife, aged :
64, were found dead in bed at their
home here to-day by a grandson. A
gas jet was turned on and the win- j
dows and door were closed. The key'
of the gas jet moves at the slightest
touch and it is believed that death j
of the couple was entirely accidental.
SEARCH FOR PRINCETON MAX
Princeton, X. J., March I.—The I
authorities of Princeton University
have asked the co-operation of the
police of New York, Philadelphia and 1
other nearby cities in a search for
William West, a Senior at the univer- !
sity, who mysteriously disappeared j
last Thursday. West has not been |
seen or heard from since he ate break- i
fast at his class clubhouse Thursday
morning.
FOURTH GERMAN LOAN
TO BE OPENED MARCH 1 1
Amsterdam, March 1. —The fourth
German war loan will be open for
subscription from March 4 to March i
22 in dual form. A five per cent, im
perial loan will be offered for sub-1
scription at $98.50 the loan being un-1
redeemable before 1924. and four and
one-hall' per cent, imperial treasury l
bonds will be offered at 95. the bonds'
being divided into ten series, re
deemable one series at a time, by
yearly drawing from 1923 to 1932.
ST. LAWRENCE CHURCH BUYS LOT
The congregation of St. Lawrence
German Catholic Church forced to
move by the Capitol Park Extension,
this afternoon purchased the 60x170
lot at 110 State street from Tobias
Yoffee for $27,000.
IIARRISBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY EVENING, MARCH 1, 1916
Marjorie Sterrett and Her Letter ;j
!; "To tbe editor of the York Tribune. !»
••Dear Sir:-—I read In your paper every morning; a lot about prepared- J;
i | My grandpa and icrcat-icrnndpn were nttldlern. If I nam a boy I <>
* would be a noldlcr, 100. Hut I aiu not* NO I want to do what I ean to help. <|
i> Mamma given me a dime every week for helping her. I am Mending: you
thin week'* dime to help build n battlenhlp for t ncle Sam. I know n lot of <» 1
!» "ther kldn who would g;lve their errand money If you wo.ild ntart u
,» fund. lam thirteen yearn old and go to Public School 11, Brooklyn.
|> "Your* truly* i
"MARJOIUE STERRETT. \ i :
it true blue American, and I uant to see t'nclc Sam prepared ]|
(| Hek all creation like John Paul Jonen did. i> (
\* S.—Plenne call the hnttlenlilp America." <[,
(i Since thin letter wan printed dimen and dollnrn have flowed Into The |>
<J Trlbnnc office micenning;ly. Other papcra acronn the country have re- ('
J, printed the letter aud the dollnrn have flowed In upou them.
The Telcgrnph join* In the movement. Send nlonii your dimen.
SEND YOUR DIMES
AND HELP BUILD
BIG BATTLESHIP
Telegraph Lines Up With N. Y.
Tribune, Enlisting Support
of Boys and Girls
Have you read Marjorie's letter?
She wants you to help her build a I
battleship, to be named the "America"
and she has enough confidence in the
patriotism and American blood of her
fellow school girls and boys in all
parts of the United States to believe
that the ten million dollars necessary
to put a new flreadnaught on the seas
will be forthcoming. Marjorie's bat
tleship idea is sweeping the country.
This "true blue" little patriot's let
ter to the New York Tribune is self
explanatory and since It has been
printed fourteen or more States have
enlisted in the campaign to raise
funds by voluntary contribution, and
on last Sunday the total amount re
ceived in the Tribune office alone was
$1.629.65. The editors of over thirty
newspapers, including the Ilarrisburg
[Continued on Page ll.]
Woman Runs to Street
Her Clothing in Flames
While trying to fasten a canary bird
cage bracket to the wall in the kitch
en of her home. 1413 Penn street, this
morning, Mrs. Esther Watson, aged
21, was severely burned about the
arms, chest and back, when her cloth
ing caught fire at the stove.
Running out of the house. her
clothes a mass of flames, neighbors,
who heard her screams, came to her
rescue. Mrs. Watson was carried into
the house at 1415 Penn street, and
given first aid before the arrival of the
ambulance.
At the Harrisburg hospital, where
she was taken, physicians said that
she had a good chance for recovery,
because none of the burns were deep!
but painful, as they cover a large
portion of the upper part of her body.
Mrs. Watson is a niece of officer Bal
thaser, of the city police force.
WAR VETERAN DIES
By Associated Press
West Chester, Pa., March I.—Geo.
A. Mercer, a.veteran of the Civil War,
former postmaster of this place, and
at one time member of council, died
last night, aged 82. During his serv- j
ice as a soldier lie was wounded sev
eral times, the last time in the battle.
of Gettysburg.
OIL STEAMER BURNING
By Associated Press
Manchester. March I.—The British j
steamer Spiraea, from Philadelphia,'
while discharging oil in barrels here! i
caught tire last night. The tire is still [
burning along the full length of thei
ship.
The Spiraea of 2307 tons net. left'
Philadelphia February 5, for Man- j
Chester, arriving there on February!
OFFERS "MADSTONE" TO STATE
FOR OF
Virginian Declares Its Curativ 1
During Last
From a little town in Virginia far i
down on the Chesapeake bay the State 1
Livestock Sanitary Board to-day re- |
celved a letter offering the use of a ■
"madstone" which the owner asserts ]
has wonderful healing power, curing •
rabies and counteracting the effects of
any poison.
The writer, who merely made his
mark to a letter tilled with many mis
spelled words, declares himself "per
fectly willing to offer my own life as
B witness to the all healing and curing
power that is embodied for society In
the so-called Gladstone. 1 acen the
MIFFLINTOWN IS
BOOSTING WILLIAM
PENN HIGHWAY
Prominent Citizenry Advocat
ing I hat Route Pass ThrpUgh
the Town
Mifflintown. p a „ March 2.—Origin- I
I ators of the William Penn Highway !
idea in Pennsylvania cannot travel
'into any part of the State and And!
more support given the project than 1
here in Mifflintown. It is true that]
! as yet no organization lias been form-]
[ eii to demand that the route pass;
i through here, but the good roads ad- ■
i vocates will be getting together within
i the next few days and a delegation!
! nepresenting Mifflintown will be;
j found in the gathering or William:
Penn Highway advocates in Harris-'
11 burg on March 27. Speakers at that !
. i meeting will have to admit that men
of Juniata and Mifflin counties were
among the first to urge the passage of
■ good roads bills in the State Legis- i
i lature and that it was largely through
. their efforts that Pennsylvania has so
[Continued on Page 3.]
Democratic Convention
Plans to Invite Countrv
to Re-elect Wilson
By Associated Press
Syracuse. X. Y„ March I.—Part v I
1 leaders planned to-day's informal
Democratic State convention here to 1
, i be considered as an invitation to the 1
! country at large to support President:
j Wilson for re-election.
| With that end in view, both key-1
' note speech and nlatform heartily in
dorsed .(lie President personally and
his administrative nolic-ies and called
' for the selection of four delegates at
large to the Democratic national con- j
! vention at St. to be chosen with ;
the understanding that tlie.v will do l
'their utmost to bring about his re- !
i nomination.
Delegates at large tentatively agreed
!to are United States Senator .Tames
A. O'Oorman. Chairman William
. Church Osborn. of the Democratic
State committee; George .T. Mever, of
Buffalo, a German-American Wilson
supporter, and Samuel Untermyer, a
Xew York attorney.
I The tentative draft, of the platform. 1
; which dealt solely with national issues, j
i besides heartily indorsing the Wilson ;
| administration declared for "peace
J with honor" and advocated prepared
! ness.
PRIESTS SEXTFTVCED TO
HARD LABOR BY GERMANS
By Associated Pr,ess
Amsterdam. March 1. According
to the Echo Beige, a German court I
martial in Brussels has sentenced two 1
Belgian priests and two civilians to 1
'lmprisonment with hard labor fori
treasonable acts against the German
I administration. The Rev. Jean Bap-
I tiste Bostels was sentenced to 12
I years in prison, the Bev. Jean Pirlot
j to six years. Charles Ducoffre to six
years and Jean Defrosse of Namur to
j four years.
j stone applied in several cases during
I my life; in every case it was a perfect
(cure. The stone was a present made
j to my grandfather, who was captain i
I of a passenger ship 200 years a pro."
i The owner of the madstone sug- I
Rests that the livestock board try out
the value of the stone and says he
thought the State might want to "make
a hid for it. He's perfectly willing,
however, to send it for a free trial If it
is safely returned. The State hoard
will advise the Virginian that it has all
faith in the Pasteur treatment for
rabies.
LEADERS WITH
WILSON ON VOTE !
OF CONFIDENCE
Plan to Defeat Anti-Adminis- j <
tration Resolutions on
Floor of House
DISSENSION WEAK EN S
I
President Says He Must Have ,'
Unanimous Action on
Foreign Policies
By Associated Press
Washington, l>. C., March I.—At an]
j early conference at the White House !
to-day President Wilson and adminis- I
| tration leaders made plans for bring- j
| ing the armed ship agitation in Con
i Kress (o an end at once with a demon
stration of unity to convince Germany
that the American Congress stands be
hind the foreign policy of the govern
; ment.
The House Foreign Affairs Com
' mittee got ready for a meeting at 1
I o'clock at which it was the plan to
canvass the situation generally and
j refer the drafting of the resolution to
j a sub-committee. Despite the Presi
-1 dent's expressed desire that the vote:
| come on a straight resolution of pas-;
I sage of warning resolution, the senti- j
I ment in the Foreign Affairs Commit-1
i tee and among administration lead- ■
| ers of both sides of- the Capitol was
| not clearly defined and some of them
thought the vote should come on an
affirmative resolution of confidence, i
There appeared to be no agreement
of opinion among the Republicans but
it was indicated that most of them
[Continued on Page 2]
Asserts He Bought Gypsy
Girl For $2,500; Father
Insists He Only 'Lent' Her
Special to I lie Telegraph
fan Francisco, March 1. —Asserting
that fifteen-year-old Mariana Nareno.
Ja gypsy girl, was sold to him for $2,-
•">OO by her father in Denver, Mark;
Adams, also a gypsy, stoutly main
-1 tained to the police that he owned the 1
girl when she was found in his moth- \
•sr's home by Detective Fred Suttman. j
ending a search begun by her father j
a year and a half ago.
i Megill Nareno, father of the girl,!
j asserts that he merely "lent" her to I
I Adams in Denver in August, 1914, fori
i two months to do housework. The |
i wirl told tlje police she did not wish
II o return to her father and that she i
| intended to marry Adam's son, George 1
!17 years old, when both were old;
jenough.
Adams, she said, took her from I
Denver to St. Louis and there engaged I
i her to marry his son. After six months
j in St. Louis she said she was taken to
• Chicago. From Chicago they went]
'to St. Joseph, Mo., and from there to i
! Denver. For six weeks they have
i been living in San Francisco.
"1 want to marry George," the little!
I gypsy told the police. "He is good to I
me. He gives me nice presents and T '
don't want to go back to my father.'' j
British Steamer Sunk;
Members of Crew Either
Killed or Drowned
London, March 1. The British
steamship Thornaby is reported to
, have been sunk, all the members of
jthe crew having been killed or I
I drowned.
I The Thornaby's gross tonnage was |
(1782. She was 258 feet long. The i
| Thornaby sailed on January 19 from <
• Sunderland, England, for Palermo,
I Sicily.
Although t lie British censorship 1
'prevents transmission of details con- 1
i cerning the reported sinking of the
< Thornaby, the reference to the mem
{ hers of the crew having probably been
I killed or drowned, indicates that she
| was sunk by a mine or a torpedo.
I The German and Austrian decrees
! regarding the sinking of armed metv-
I chantmen without warning went inro '
j effect at midnight. The Thornaby is |
j the first vessel whose sinking has been
| reported since the orders became ]
1 operative, but the London dispatch !
| does not indicate whether she was j
| armed or whether she was sunk be
fore or after the opening of the
j month.
Big Traffic Squad Begins
to Enforce New Code
Harrisburg's giant squad of traffic
officers, at noon to-day officially' be
gan enforcing the new traffic regula
tions which were made by Captain of
Police Joseph P. Thompson and Chief!
of Police J. Thomas Zeil.
The officers were provided with
whistles, and used outstretched arm |
i in opening and closing traffic at street
I intersections. The officers on the
i downtown districts, were also instruct
ed to do everything in their power to
break up the practice of pedestrians
crossing the street diagonally.
WARNING AGAINST WOMAN
FROM ASSOCIATED AIDS
Numerous inquiries have been re
ceived at the Associated Aid societies,
concerning a Mrs. MeCann. who has
i been selling iron holders from door
to door, and telling a story that she
i has a number of children to support.
The Aid societies announced to-day !
i that she is being provided for by that j
| association, and needs no charity from
i individuals. John Yates, secretary of
the Aids societies, issued a warning
this morning to the residents of the
city. The Mrs. McCann who has been
asking charlety is not Mrs. Mary Mc-
Cann, who resides in South Second
street.
HISTORIC PROPERTY SOLD
i Another big realty deal was closed i
! late this afternoon when C. Vernon
j Rettew, acting as agent for P. A. Far
quliarson, purchased the Roumfort
estate property, corner Chestnut and
Fourth streets, a property that was
included In the original Harris grant.
Tt is understood that a big, modern
apartment house will be erected on
the site. The Roumfort property has
a frontage of 68 feet in Fourth and 54 : j
feet in Chestnut street. J ]
PENNSY TO FINISH
FREIGHT INCREASE
PLAN THIS YEAR
On Eve on 70th Birthday Com
pany Reports Biggest Year
I in Its History
EARNINGS .$375,000,000'
Net Revenue $42,425,322, An In
crease of $8,334,557; 8.09
on Stock
Completion of the increased freight'
facility program in this city, Including |
the big new freight depot and addi- j
tional trackage in South Harrisburg, j
will likely be accomplished by the end ;
of this year, announces the sixty-ninth j
annual report of the Pennsylvania t
Railroad.
The Pennsylvania Railroad Com- i
pany will be 70 years old on April 13,
and on the eve of its anniversary the ;
company is enabled to make an annual
report to stockholders which shows
the largest earnings in its history, i
Ureat gains were achieved in gross;
and net revenues, the income avail- j
able for dividends on the $499,203,700
I of capital stock . being equivalent to
, x.49 per cent., as compared with 6.83
per cent, in the previous year. This
is an increase of 1.06.
Great Revenues
The report, which covers operations
for the year ended December 31, 1915,
[Continued on Page ll.]
Maryland Boy Can Boast
of Having Ten Grandparents
Special to the TetcgrapU
Hagerstown, Md., March 1. The
stork left at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. B. S. Reynolds, living in Sandy
Hook district, near Harper's Ferry, a
bouncing boy baby who can boast of
having ten grandparents—six grand
mothers. great grandmothers, great
great grandmothers, etc.. and four
grandfathers, great grandfathers and
so on, all of them living, the oldest
; being 85 years and the youngest 44.
KfINGS CONFER
Hy Associated Press
Amsterdam, March 1. lt is an-1
j nounced from Vienna that King Fer- 1
luinand of Bulgaria has arrived in that!
I city on a visit to Emperor Francis
! Joseph.
—
PI Hi IK/lA* Hw/lftiW
I S
| T OF STRIKE VOTE HELD
1 0., March I.—The result of t! ( ►
\ otd brotherhoods on the ques i 1
I >tia ing with the railways of the United States for an J ,
# eight-hour day will not be made public until March 8.
2* SENATOR BURTON WITHDRAWS ' f
1 Lincoln, Neb., March I.—Former United States Sen- j
: & ator Theodore Burton, of Ohio, to-day in a letter to Secre- 1 f
j 1 tary of State Pool, asked that his name be withdrawn as a !
A candidate for the nomination for President His request < \
| | will be granted. i
i
j T GERMANY SENDS ULTIMATUM TO PORTUGAL ,I
f London, March I.—Germany has sent an ulti latum t >
I i to Portugal demanding the restoration within forty-eight ;
. i hours of the German ships recently seized by that count]
| | according to a dispatch from Madrid to Reuter's 1 j\
j I Company.
J \ INCENDIARY FIRE BURNS $300,000 STATION 1 *
Y Montreal, March I.—The Bonadventure station of the ,
1 Grand Trunk Railroad was destroyed by a fire believed to I ►
' be incendiary, to-day. The loss is placed at $300,000. f
t UNUSUAL COMPENSATION CLAIM ' ;
Harrisburg.—The question of whether compensation ■
I for a posthumus child of a man killed in a Pennsylvania
| | industrial establishment since the Workmen's Compensation ® 1
Act took effect has been placed before the State Compen •!!
, Board by a statement from Wilkes-Barre. It is cor. * *
tended by counsel for the widow that compensation shouio j !
p be allowed lor the child from the time of the accident, la. , i
< Claim wili probably be reterred to a referee for decision. ' ;
< * AIJ IOS IN COLLISI ON ' f
backing his large touring
J inta rn vunabeut owned by P. Dnscui " '
! sales manager ot the bord care, at Third and Market
* ; late this afternoon, with blight damage.
; , MARRIAGE LICENSES «!
l\nrl Karl Steirart mid Mary HI lea be th Wadr, (It).
William Alton Ijytcr anil Margaret t nmplx 11, city. I
Ql^W^'ll^l1 1 II WHI II Wll II Vt" II AM II'H
14 PAGES CITY EDITION
BUSINESS MEN
DECRY LICENSING
OF LENNOX HOTEL
Lack of Necessity and Detri
ment of Public GooO
Pointed Out
MANUFACTURER TESTIFIES
John A. Affleck, James W.
Barker Protest—County
Hearings On
Vigorous reasons why, In the opinion
| of some of Harrlsburg's well-known
j business men. the licensing of the
| Hotel Lennox, 442-428 Market street,
to sell liquor would not only be unnec
essary. but "detrimental to the publi<-
| good." were expressed on the witnes.'
stand to-day in Dauphin county licens<
sessions.
The Manufacturers' Protest
Ninth ward residents who protestei
iin unqualified language against till
licensing of another hotel in that wan
were such well-known business men
j manufacturers and professionally wel
I known men as James W. Barker, Joh>
; A. Affleck, Charles D. Boyer and S. ('
Boyer, a sales and purchasing ageni
] for Dives, Pomeroy & Stewart's. Ail
Harker has been a leader in the com
bined campaign of the city rhurchc
and the Dauphin and Order anc
No-License Leagues against the re
licensing of twenty or more of the ot«
hotels and the licensing of any mor
new ones.
Incidentally the efforts of C. 11.
Bergner. counsel for Fishman, lo ha\ •
the testimony of Messrs. Barker anc'
S. C. Boyer stricken from the record
because these witnesses admitted thr 1
they are "conscientiously opposed 1 •
the liquor trafTle" fell flat. The com
promptly overruled the objection.
Tlii- Question of Competency
"We think." pointed out Mr. Berj
ner, "that- the testimony is not com
potent because the witnesses are in
competent to testify."
"We'll consider the testimony," de
clared President Judge KunUel, "aiv
give it such weight as we think it ri
quires. It is entirely competent. Win
weight should be given it, however, i
another matter."
And here is some of the testimon
| Mr. Barker offered:
"1 do not think that the 'travelin
; public* are all men who want whisk
j and beer." he declared in answer t
a question as to why he did not thin
I the license was a convenience to tfc
[Continued oil Pago 10]
