Crossville Chronicle.
TM rENNE88SS TIMM I OON30LIDATID
O OMVUI OHRONIOLB I ( ,Qg6
VOL. XXX. CROSSVILLE. TENNESSEE. WEDNESDAY. MARCH I, 1916. NO. 9
YOU GAN NOW GET LIME.
At $1.00 a Ton on Board Car at Crab
Orchard Now; Price May Change,
The Cumberland County lime ma
chine is now in operation ready to fill
your oraers, f, o. b. Crab Orchard at
the following prices :
To resiuenls of Cumberland county,
$1.00 per ion.
To non -residents, $1.25 per ton.
It is the object of the court to ar
range so mat our farmers can get lime
at cost and this price of $1.00 per ton
may be raised or lowered after the ma
chine has run a while and it is found
that it uosu wore or less to produce
the lime.
It is not the intention of the fime
committee io enter into the selling of
lime at tin time in less than car ship
ments, except to those near enough to
haul lime from the machine at Crab
Orchard All those should apply to
Robtert Ruse.
We suggest that farmers wanting
less than a car load make up a club or
der of twu or more farmers.
We albo suggest that at stations
where a gr at deal is wanted by single
wagon lpads, some merchant or other
peraon be gotten to handle lime and
sell it to thuse who want it.
Since the farmers are getting the
lime at cost, they must pay cash in ad
vance.
Address ail orders to Jauues Smith,
Crossville, Tenn.
Geo. P. Burnett,
Clay Sells,
C. II. Oeatherage,
James Smith,
J. E. Converse,
Lime Committee.
GOV. HOOPER TEARS
MASK PROM PLOTTERS
and. inferential V that Scnatnr Sinn
Shows Up the Scheme of Littleton, Sells dei8 8nouk1 recast into the political
scrap neap.
j "He announced that he and Con- bered that from anl including the legis ' "I want to go further and ask my
gressman Sells would go as delegates lature of 1909, Jesse M. Littleton stood friends over the state to set the seal of
from the state-at-large to the national ready at the beck and call of the liquor condemnation upon the deal to localize
i convention and that Mr. Sells would element of the democratic party to and iiquonze the republican party If
also be elected as national committee- rush to Nashville or elsewhere to tight any of them have been led into such a
"Jan. the republican orcanizntinn nnH thA Iran nnniithnulv ... ,1 c. I t .
. , . , , i . ; --e ' " -" - - ...... .j , I" ' ...... - v nijuvv
ne i miner announced mat ioriner cause ot prohibition. It would be tedi
j Governor Hooper should rot be sent as oup for rue to relate the well-remem-
a aeiegate to the national convention, bered ins ances.
and Austin to Turn Down Newell
Sanders and Put Party Un
der Whiskey Power.
NEWPORT,' Tenn., Feb. 22. Rela
tive to recent developments in republi
can politics in the state, former Gov.
Ben W. Hooper of this place today
gave out the following statement:
'Conditions in the republican party
in Tennessee have assumed such shape
that 1 feel it necessary to make a
statement ot certain facts of vital in
terest and importance to all republican
voters. That my own name is being
used in a way to mislead the masses of
the republican party, emphasizes my
duty to speak out.
HEADING TOWARD DISASTER.
He proclaimed his advocacv of liav
Hooper for the nomination for senator,
but obviously had arranged for him to
have no voice in the conduct of his own
campaign through a friend y national
committeeman.
"tie apparently thought that it was
too much for the party to send its sen
atorial candidate as a delegate to the
national convention, but was entirely
proper to make one of its congressional
candidates both a delegate to the na
tional convention and national commit
, teeman.
i "He then capped the climax of his
pronouncements by stating that Con
gressman Sells, as national committee
i man, would dispense the federal pa
tronage of the state outside of tre sec
j ond district, thus in effect conceding in
i advance that there would be no repub
lican senator to attend to these mat
ters. This was only an inadvertent
have, there is pienty ot time to cor
rect the mistake. Only two delegates
have been elected to the national con
vention and a comparatively email
number to the state convention.
"When the rank and tile of republi
cans unlerstund the situation, candi-
NATIONAL COM Mil TEEMAN.
"Now as to the national commltttee
manship, 1 want to express the view
that no republican congressman now i dates tor delegate will doubtless spring
or hereafter should be elected to that up and the people's case will not be
place. His political interests are cen- permitted tc go by default,
tered in building up a machine in his "1 have fully weighed this entire
own district. The republican party of 'matter before making this statement,
the whole state should not be made a ! It may be said that 1 am jeopardizing
mere tail to any man's congressional a unanimous nomination tor the senate
"The republican party of this state
is now heading toward a disaster that
will repudiate its honorable record, de
stroy its hold on public confidence and
cast it back into the position of help
less inefficiency that it occupied twen
ty-hve years ago.
"Here are some of the questions that
now confront lennessee republicans:
SHALL TWHISKEY LEAD?
kite. Whenever this is done, mark my
prediction, the republican party in
Tennessee will cease to be regarded as
a serious contender at the polls.
"Moreover, it will engender faction
a politics in the district from which
such congressman may hail, and will
hasten his political demise.
FALL ELECTION.
"If the republicans carry Tennessee
this year they must have the substan
tial co-operation of the national organ
ization to prevent them from being
ronned at the polls, io get this, we
ORDER CRUSHED LIME.
J. E. Converse Offers to instruct Farmers
How to Use It Profitably.
Since Cumberland county is distrib
uting a great deal of free lime that
farmers in all parts of the county may
try it on their own farms, I, represent
ing the Experiment Station, after test
ing lime on hundreds of test plats
the last ten years, in this and other
counties, make this otter:
I will advise with any farmer who
requests it, on the use of lime, if in re
turn he will report to me later the in
creased yields he gets from its use.
If more apply than 1 can visit, 1 will
avdise the othets by letter.
I will meet any group ot larmers
who plan the use of lime and talk with
them and answer questions.
J. K. Converse.
A LATE EASTEK.
xne caster ot i;nt win come on
April 23, the latest in a number ot
years to be exact, since 1905. Easter
cannot come later than April 25, nor
earlier than March 22. The earliest
Easter in recent years was on March
23, in 1913 In 1865 it fell on the same
date.
Easter will not come as late as his
year again until in 1943, when it will
fall on April 25. Thereafter it will
not come so late until in the year 2000,
when it again falls on April 25.
Ash Wednesday in 1916 will come on
March 8, Ascension day on June 1 and
Penetcost on June 11. Ex.
COMMITTEE CALLED
To Meet In the Court House, Crossville,
Saturday, March II.
The Republican Executive Commit
tee of Cumberland County is hereby
called to meet at the court house in
Crossville, Saturday, March 11, 1916,
at noon, for the purpose of calling a
county convention to select delegates
to the State Convention, to be held at
Nashville, May 3; and to instiuct tor
delegates to the National Convention ;
to instruct for governor, IN S. senator,
electors and two members ot the State
Committee from the Fourth Congres
sional District, and to transact such
other business as may properly come
before the committee.
Geo. P. Burnett, Chairman,
& C. Bishop, Secretary.
Do they desire to backtrack their
splendid re;ord on the liquor question
by kicing it of the republican organ
ization the i n who have led the fight
for ten year , and supplanting them
with men w! have joined hands with
the 'regulat democrats and fought a
republican arl ministration at the behest
of the lijurr ;nerests?
"Do they ''esire that the republican
platform sh.,l t expressly or lmnlied-
ly weakened U .,-i.er to the discredited
and disrupt- . . -s of law violators
and election Ih'cvei in certain cities?
"Do they desire that interest out
side of this state shall dictate the per
sonnel of the republican state organi
zations and name our delegates to the
national convention?
"Will Tennessee republicans submit
to having the party degenerate into a
mere scramble fur federal office, with
every hope of carrying the state in
November wrecked and. abandoned?
t 5VC0 nu.iuui oajlllg Limb IMC IC
pbulican voters of this state will not
lend themselves to any such program
wnen they know and understand the
facts.
HARMONY WORK.
"As governor of this state for four
years, 1 strove, with the assistance of
those around me, to make the republi
can party a virile, vigorous, progres
sive party, serving the highest inter
ests of the state. I endeavored to
make it a state party instead ot merely
an East Tennessee party. I ignored
factionalism and cordially recognized
every political element in the party.
This was a difficult task, and subjected
me to the alternate criticism of both
factions, but in the end they all admit
ted the sincerity of my purpose and
the wisdm of my course.
"1 mention this Inst fact not tor self-
praise, but solely for the purpose ot
assuring my republican friends over
the state that 1 nuw speak to them in
the interest of the party, and not in
the behalt of any factional part of it.
STATE COMMITTEE FIGHT.
"Now to the plain facts in band. On
December 31, 1915, the republican
state committee met at Nashville.
There was a sharp division over the
selection of two men to fill vacancies
on the committee They grew out of
the personal incompatibility of two
prominent gentlemen, both accounted
close friends ot mine. 1 took no part
in this contest.
"Sion after the committee adjourned
it began to leak out that the contest
had become so keen in electing these
memters of the committee that a gen
eral parceling out of federal offices and
places in the organization bad been re
sorted to in order to accomplish the re
sults. Postoffices, district attorney
ships, marshalships, and the national
committeemanship had been bartered
off.
"To get the votes of the two com
mitteemen from the First congression
al district, it was necessary to promise
to Congressman Sells the place of na
tional committeeman.
It is but just to say that a large
majority of the state committee knew
nothing of the details ot the deal. The
inside facts were not communicated to
them. In fact, the First district gen
tlemen were not present in person, but
Jwere only represented by proxy.
ACTION OF DICK AUSTIN.
"Upon the heels ot this meeting.
Congressman Austin issued from Wash
ington a statement of the program that
had been benevolently prepared for the
republicans of the state without any
mental strain to tbem.
confession of the fact that the election
of the state ticket was no part of the
purpose ot this new and strange com
bination.., .1.. LITTLETON IS SCORED.
"Down at Chattanooga, Jesse M.
Littleton was taken into the new deal
with the understanding that he, the po
litical, official and personal representa
tive of the liquor interests, must make
the right to humiliate and destroy Sen
ator Sanders, and aside from the per
sonal gratification he would get, he
was to be made a power in the state
organization and given the federal pa
tronage of the third congressional district.
The Chattanooga Times, the thick -
and-thin organ of the liquor interests,
then opened up its batteries in support
of the new dreibund of Littleton, Sells
and Austin.
'To make it appear to the colmon
people that 1 was friendly to this ar
rangement, all hands and the cook went
to boosting me for the senatorial nom
ination. Ibe presumption was that 1
would be such an assinine weakling as
to want or accept a senatorial nomina
tion hobbled with an organization
boosted by political enemies and the
liquor interests.
'Think, too, of the superlative gall
of a set of gentlemen that would pre
tend to desire my election as senator
and at the same time oppose my selec
tion as delegate to the national conven
tion. "It is but natural that the pathway
of such a combination as this should
be strewn even at this early stage with
the wreckage ut broken obligations.
SOME DOUBLE DEALING.
"Having promised to support John
W. Overall for governor, they proceed
ed to overlook endorsing him at Chatt
anooga and to endorse Judge Lindsay
at Knoxville.
"Then, to further complicate their
own arrangements, Littleton began to
lay the vires to "have himself nomi
nated tor governor. This he will vo
ciferously deny, but the facts in my
possession are against him.
"Having endorsed H. Clay Evans, of
Chattanooga, for delegate to the na
tional convention, to get the benefit of
his honarble name and strong person
ality in that county, they ditched him
a week later at Knoxville.
"Having promised to elect J. Will
Taylor as a delegate to the national
convention from the second district,
and Taylor relying on this promise and
making no tight, one wing of the
dreibund threw him overboard at the
last moment and the other wing ex
pressed to him great surprise and re
gret. "With only four delegates to elect
from the state-at-large, this combinai
tion is ostensibly backing three candi
dates from East Tennessee, while firm
ly obligated to one each from Middle
and West Tennessee, making five in all.
DOMINATED BY WHISKEY MEN.
'should have a united party, a strong
ticket and a national committeeman
whose first interest is the election of
a senator. To nominate a candidate
for senator and place by his side as
national committeeman a man who has
put in a large part ot his time in re
cent years cursing and abusing him
would be the supremest political tolly.
WOREKD FOR HARMONY.
"To meet this entire situation, 1 set
out some time ago to try to procure
some harmoious arrangement that
would do justice to everybody and hurt
and humiliate nobody. My efforts in
this direction were not put forth in the
interest of any individual or taction,
but in the intcept of the party as a
whole. 1 spent about ten days in this
endeavor, without avail. The two
congressman having within their grasp
their midwinter peopleless committee
nomination, and feeling buoyer) by
their new ally, Mr. L'ttleton, seemed
disposed to yield nothing material
"1 believed, and I still believe, that
the republican party will not be be
trayed into a shameless repudiation of
its record on the liquor question. If it
does, its hide will not hold shucks in
November.
"I thought that Mr. Sells might as
well have contented himself with his
chance of returning to congress and
yvtenys. no w w.v no
tional convention without conspiring to
overthrow Senate r Sanders, the man
who carried the political mud that
made him.
"1 thought that Mr. Littleton might
have considered it a high privilege to
return to the fold of the state republi
can organization, after an absence of
about ten years, w thout becoming pre
maturely ambitious to become the bell
wether of the flock, and to crowd out
men whose loyalty to the party and all
that it stands for has never tailad.
by the course 1 have adopted But I
know my action is in the interest -f
the republican party and the state, a .id
1 am satisfied. '
SWEET CLOVER AGAIN.
"As a forewarning of the kind ot
platform and candidate that would re
sult from the movement, if unchecked,
let the people take note of the fact
that the delegations from Knox and
Hamilton counties are absolutely dom
inated by liquor men, many of whom
have not voted a republican ticket in
years.
"On the Hamilton delegation is the
secretary ot the democratic congres
sional executive committee and certain
prominent ex-saloonkeepets.
"On te Knox delegation, there are
a number ot men formerly connected
with the liquor business, directly or in
directly ; three men recently under in
dictment for bootlegging, and the
liquor lobbyists who held a ring in the
noses of three republican legislators
all through the session ot 1913. The
Knox delegation, though instructed for
Judge Lindsay, is known to very large
ly favor the nomination of Littleton.
LITTLETON A TRAITOR.
"Is this connection, let it be remeni-
PLEA FOR SANDERS.
"It has seemed to me that the re
publican voters of Tennessee who
know and appreciate the distinguished
services of Senator Sanders through a'l
these years, and who recognize his un
sullied integrity, would still desire to
avail themselves of his political wis
dom and experience and would Hot at
tempt to humble him in his old age.
Surely even those of us who have not
always agreed with him must recog
nize the fact that he has spent more
time and money for his party than any
other man in Tennessee, and that he
has passed through it all without the
smell of graft or corruption on his gar
ments. It is but natural tha the
friends of the liquor interests should
want to punish him because he made
possible the passage of the Wetb-Ken-yon
law, but republicans should not be
made the instruments of their ven
geance. HIS SENATORIAL ATTITUDE.
"as to my own attitude, I have nev
er declared ir.yself a candidate for sen
ator, nor will I do so it the nomination
is to be a mere empty honor, as a
matter ot course, 1 have deeply appre
ciated the endorsements given me by
my friends in the counties that have
already held conventions.
"If I am to ue the nominee for sena
tor, I ought to be a delegate-at-large
to the national convention in order
that I might get in touch with the na
tional organization at the very outset.
In recognition ot this obvious tact, 1
announced myself aa a candidate for
delegate. If there is anything in my
four years record as governor, every
minute of which was devoted to a
strenuous struggle with a desperate
political machine, that renders' me un
fit to represent my party in a national
convention, then I shall submit to the
verdict, but it shall be the verdict of
the republican voters, and not of any
little coterie of self-seeking politicians
who would wreck the party to build a
machine. 1 shall most vigorously
carry my case to the people. It shall
be given a Jury trial.
APPEALS TO REPUBLICANS.
J. E. Converse Thinks Red Clover Far
Better and Surer Crop.
Crossville, Tenn., Feb. 25, 1916.
Editor Chronicle,
.Dear Mr. Bishop: Your recent arj
tide in the Chronicle on sweet clover is
so strong that 1 wish to reply to st.
Sweet clover has been exploited to
such an extent and so .'vividly, that a
few years ago in my capacity with the
Experiment Stattion 1 undertook to
test it thoroughly. This test was plan
ned to follow the lines ot the claims
made for sweet clover. Namely, that
it was easy to grow, that it would
grow on poor land, that it would grow
on most any land.
We found that none of these claims
were well founded so far as Cumber
laud county is concerned. In one Held
we seeded it continuously for three or
four years, re-seeding as often as twice
in the "am year, and never got aa
much as one hundredth part of a stand.
Probably we got a dozen bunch s on
this field of about an acre from the
four or five seedings. This was on
poor land but a part of it was limed,
another part was manured, another
part was given a good application of
acid phosphate. At other places we
have tried sweet clover and have had
more success. At no place in this
State has it done as well as its advo
cates would have us to believe.
There are a few things that we have
proven :
lrt. It must be inoculated.
2nd. It wants lime.
3rd. It 19 almost as hard to get a
stand of it as alfalfa.
Sweet clover grows tall when it
grows at all, Dut on mr. jnanson s
held near town there was a pretty good
stand and it did not average inoro than
three feet high ; this on land that Mr.
Johnson and others have repeatedly
tried to grow alfalfa, and at one time
had a fair stand ; land that at one time
grew over two hundred bushela of po
tatoes.
Now, 1 do not wish to start a contro
versy, but i oo wisn to say r.nat sweet
clover is too uncertain for farmers in
this county to spend their time and
money on. Give the same amount of
time and boosting to red clover, Mr.
Editor, and you will be doing many
times the good.
J. E. Converse.
WAR SITUATION.
For several days the Germans have
been battling with the French at
tempting to take a series of forts
around Verdun. It is considered al
most impregnable but the fighting haa
been the most bloody and destructive
of any of the war thus far and there is
no knowing what the outcome will be.
The Russians are still pressing the
Turks and are said to be taking many
prisoners and the feeling is that they
will connect up with the beleagured
British forces 150 miles south that have
been hemmed in by the Turks tor many
weeks. The Austrian." have been gain
ing important advantages over the
Italians and forcing them to retreat
from important strong holds.
SUNK BY MINE.
A large British passenger vessel
struck a mine two miles off lrom
Dover, England, and sank. Another
vessel attempted to go to the rescue
and struck a mine also and sank m'a
abort time. The total loss of lifeln
estimated at 160.
