THE BRECKENRIDGE NEWS.
ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT.
VOL. XL CLOVERPORT, KENTUCKY. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 1916. 8 Pages No. 35
KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS
IE
In This City Tuesday Evening.
Large Attendance M any
Visitors and a Bountiful Sup
per Spread.
MUSIC BY ORCHESTRA.
The annual banquet of the Knlgh's
of Pythias of Cloverport was celebrat
ed Tuesday evening at the Masonic
Hall. The lodge made quite elaborate
arrangements to take care of the visit
ing brethren and families from adjoin
Ing towns
The crowd began to assemble at an
early hour and after the picture show
was over the patrons from there filled
the hail. One of the features of the
evening was the splendid music furn
ished by the orchestra.
Mr. Emmett Edmondson, the Chan
cellor Commander of Breckenridge
Lodge, No. 61, was master of cere
monies for his lodge, and anyone
knowing "Emmett" will know that
this position could not have been filled
to better advantage than It was by
him.
The supper committee, consisting of
Mr. Henry Yeager, Mr. J. M. Gregory
and Prof. J. R. McCoy, certainly are
to be congratulated for the splendid
supper arranged by them. Four
courses were served.
The guests and members departed at
a late hour, having spent a very en
joyable evening.
Home Talent. Entertainment .Au
spices Missionary Society
Of the Baptist Church.
On Monday nigiit, March 6th, at The
American Theater the comedy. "Scenes
In a Hooking Bureau" will be presented
with a cast of 25 characters, "Cloverport
Talent " The play is a scene in a
Chautauqua Agency and is very inter
esting and humorous Miss Critchfield,
under whose direction the play will be
given, will be remembered in the "Dis
trict School, which she directed several
years ago with good success.
Youngest Tobacco Picker
in Breckenridge County.
Walter Stone, of Fordsville, has been
p'eking and packing tobacco for Ben
Clarkson, ot Gien Dean and Fordsville.
Mr. Stone is one of the fastest tobacco
men in Breckenridge county, nUo one
of the youngest, btlng only twerty-one
years of age.
Large Crowd Greets
J. Paul Smith, Impersonator.
A large and appreciative audience
greeted the distinguished impersonator,
G. Paul Smith, in his marvelous pro
tean entertainment at the American
Theater Monday evening. Mr. Smith
is u very logical illustrator, interspers
ing his program with just enough hu
mor to keep the crowd in good spirits.
Mrs. Jas. Willhoit
Dies at Lodiburg.
Mrs. Jas. Wfllhoit, daughter of the
late lien Mncy, deceased, passed away nt
her home in I.odlburg Saturday, Febru
ary 36, at the age of forty-four years.
.Mrs Willhoit was a devoted iii-mher
and active In the work of the Ilaptist
church. She was an indulgent parent, n
loving mother and n good neighbor,
making n neighborhood better for her
having lived in it.- She is survived by
her husband, three dniightcrs, two sis'
ters and two brothers.
The funeral services were conducted
Sunday by the Rev. I. C. Argabright,
with interment in the Walnut Grove
cemetery.
Buys Confectionary.
W L. Arnold has purchased the con
fectionary nnd bikery belonging to
Austin Bsavin His daughter, Miss
Btrssye Arnold, and .son, Conley Arnold,
will have charge of the business.
Paying the Penalty.
Sheriff A. T. Beard took Roosevelt
Robinson, colored, to the House of Ri
form. His deputy, J-sse Carman and
D. H. Smith, took Dustin Stiles to Ed
dvville, sentenced from 2 to 10 years
for housebreaking, and Virgil Hawkins,
2 to 5 years for forgery.
Jesse Carman brought in Nolice
White, living near Big Spring, charged
with shooting John Butler, coloied. He
is in jail. His trial is set for Tuesday,
March 7.
There are now nintteen prisoners in
jail.
Dr. H. J. Beard Endorsed.
For State Committeeman.
Calhoun, Ky , Feb. 26. A large
crowd of Republicans assembled today
for the county mass convention to select
delegates to the district convention to be
held in Henderson Monday afternoon
Thirteen delegate! and as many alter
nates to vote a half vote each in the con
vention. Dr H. J Heard was unani"
mously endorsed for district committee
man for the Second district. No fur
ther instructions were given the dele
gates.
At the same time the district de'e
gates were chosen the county organiza
tion was formed, as this right was con
ferred in the call, to those counties
which desired to do so. Capt. W. G.
Hoaglaud was chosen as chairman, II. D.
Laudrum was e ected secretary aud C. L.
Atchison was elected treasurer for the
county organization. No resolutions of
any kind were adopted, but several
speeches were made advocating Repub
lican principles and censuring Demo
cratic administrations, both state aud
national. O wensboro Messenger.
At Hardinsburg Saturday For
Purpose of Selecting Dele
gates to District Convention
and State Convention.
ENTHUSIASTIC MEETING.
Hardinsburg, Feb. 28 (Special )
The Republicans of Breckenridge Coun
ty held n mass convention at Hardins
burg Saturday February 26th, 1916
The purpose of the convention was to
select delegates to the District Conven
tion, which is to be held at Elizabeth
town on February 29th, and the State
Convention to be held at Louisville on
March 1st, 1916.
On motion of Jns T. Basham, the
Hon. Chas. Blanford, of Iiewleyville,
was elected chairman and John D. Shaw
was elected secretary of the convention.
The Hon. Sherman Ball, John X.
Akers and S B. Payne were named as a
Committee on Resolutions and they re
ported the following:
Resolved, That the delegates from
Breckenridge county go to the District
and State Conventions uniustructed, ex
cept that they cast their votes for the
Hon. John P. Haswell, Jr., for State
Central Committeeman; that they cast
their votes for Prof. G H. Baird, of Mc
Quady, for alternate delegate from the
State-At-Large and that it be resolved
that the Republicans of Breckenridge
county indorse the course of our Repre
sentative, Henry A. Cannon, in the
present General Assembly of Kentucky.
The delegates selected were: W J.
Piggott. D. C. Heron, S. B Payne,
Chas. Blanford, Jas. T. Basham, R M.
Cart, C W. Moorman, Marion Weather
holt, J. M. Fitch, Chas W Dean, H A.
Whittiughill, Jesse Carman, Pete Butler,
Henry A. Cannon, Jno. P Haswell, H.
M. Beard, A. T. Beard, W. S Ball, W.
E. Henuinger, John D. Shaw, D. D
Dowell, John N. Akers, G B Cunning
ham, A. R Kincheloe, Luke B. Reeves
and R. I, Oelze.
Alternates: G. D. Shellman, C. E.
Haswell, Jas. Hottell, G. II Baird, W.
N. Piles, George Miller, Pal Garner,
Hardee Ball, G A Wright, W C. Pate,
George Royalty, Mack H. Quiggins,
Robert Weatherford, J R. Meador, J. B.
Randall, Tide Adkius, John Stinnett,
Mat Johnson, Sr., William Bowman, P.
M. L'asham, Dr II E Royalty, I.ottis
Lucas, Harry Bates, J. W. Hufliucs nnd
Gabe Dowell
The meeting was enthusiastic aud
harmonious aud all present predicted a
great Republican victory in November.
Fiscal Court.
Adds Soda Fountain.
Dr.-E. M. Wedding has added a suda
fountain to his drug tore. Jess Hall
has been employed as, Helper. Mr.
Wedding is an energetic young busi
ness man and is sure to make good.
The Fiscal Court met Monday and
decided to apply for $3,000 State aid
money to be used as the court and State
department may determine.
Sheep Money Here.
County Clerk C. V. Robertson says
the sheep money is in his hands ready
for distribution. All persons having near Harned to Frank Compton for
claims please call and get their checks. $'1,000, and gone to Illinois to find a
The amount is $6S0 40. location.
Sold Farm For $2,000.
Sylvester Baker has told his farm
IRVINGTON PHARMACY-
HARDINSBURG PHARMACY
"The Drug Stores That Saves You Money
WATCH US GROW
FEED YOUR HOGS, CATTLE and HORSES SAL-VET and WATCH THEM IMPROVE
Drugs, Medicines, Kodak Supplies, Etc. We are Agents for SAL-VET! VETERINARY NEEDS
Sent to you by Parcel Post the . ave em genj or ,r;ng us vour
same day order is received EASTMAN KODAK AGENTS! order
Let us do your Printing, Developing and enlarging all work guaranteed Anybody can Kodak with an Eastman
Baby Foods and Supplies A Complete Line of Stationery Guaranteed Rubber Goods
Box Paper 5c to 50c See our line of Water Pottles, Foun
A very important feature that uirth Announcements, Tally Cards. 'V" etc- e purchas-
should be considered by mothers in p0st Cards, Crepe Paper all colors, j"lt-'iiawnert-
huying baby foods U, be sure they Crepe Napkins, Receipt Hooks, ve are agents for the famous
are fresh. We Insukk all these Scratchpads Writing Pads Cc to 25c, Smithsonia and New York Elastic
goods as to freshness. Ledgers, Note Books, Ulbles, iesta Trusses. Let us fli you. Guaran-
ments, etc. te d Matlsfaetion.
A full line of Imported and Domestic Toilet Waters and Sachet Powders Come in our store when in town and
let us show you these articles
TALCUMS 11 18 better to have your Prescrip- FACE POWDERS
Ptvers (AinV), Dear Kiss, Rogert WISH you KM. Menguel (Plvers). Melba, Carmen,
& Gallets, Colgates Sii;'. Sqiilbbs, (r-rfCnnlj . A111 UoII n .or.1c: Woodoury's, Freeman', Zephyr,
Menn.n., WlllUmeVwiloni. (lib PSend U, your Mall OrderT Roger & Qallet. V.lveoa. M.ry
, , L. : Stuart, Nadlne, Daggett & Roms-
1B0) and many others. Satisfaction Guaranteed. Try US dala'a, Pace Leaves, Dorln Rouge.
Delivered Sunday Evening By E.
E. Clark, Refugee From Mex
ico, on the Condition in That
Stricken Country.
Mr. B. K. Clark, a refugee from Tor
reon, Mexico, delivered nn Interesting
address at the Cloverport Methodist
church Sunday evening on "Conditions
in Mexico Heglnning With the Revolu
tion of 11110." Mr. Clark was for 13
years n business man in Mexico, aud
was able to tell of things' which he had
himself witnessed.
His personal recollections aud descrip
tions of Madero, Villa and Cnrranza
were striking. The life of the Mexican
peon and his home were portrayed by
the speaker. Some interesting expc
rieices connected with the sacking of
Torreon by Villa nnd his soldiers were
narrated.
Toward the latter part of his address
Mr. Clark asked the audience to stand
and sing Rock of Ages, after which he
told of the missionary work as he had
seen it carried on. A striking commen
tary on moneymad Americans was
given when the speaker told how the
majority of the American colonists took
no interest In the missionary work
which was going on around them In the
new land of their adoption. The speak
er described a peon boy who had been
converted in one of the missions and
was a faithful Christian.
Inclosing Mr. Clark declared intent
perance and lust for gold to be the un
derlying causes for the revolutionary
conditions in Mexico. American busl
ness men must bear much of the re
sponsibility. diesIIeIy.
Miss Harriett Dhonau Dies Mon
day Afternoon of Hemorhage
of the Brain Funeral Held
Wednesday.
Miss Harriett Dhonau, of this city,
died suddenly Monday aftertoon, Feb
ruary 2S, of hemorhage of the brain.
She was on her way to her sister's,
Mrs. Mike Hamman, preparing for a
trip to Evansville to see her brother,
who is very ill, when she was suddenly
stricken, ding shortly after being re
moved to her sister's, home.
Miss Dhonau was born at Rome. Ind.,
and was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Peter Dhonau, natives ot Prussia, who
came to this country in 1870 In 1S9D
she moved from Rome, hid., to this
city, spending the greater part ot her
life in this community. She was a
member of the I'resbv terian church and
was never found wanting in courage to
serve her Christian duties.
She is survived by five sisters, name-
1: Mrs. Wm. Sanders, Mrs. Mike Ham-
man, of this place; Mrs Chas. Fuelu,
of Tell Cit; Mrs. Lizzie Dick, of Ger
man, Ind , and one brother, Albert
Dhonau, of Kvansville
The funeral st rvices were conducted
Wednesday afternoon from the i'resbj
terian church by the Rev. Mr. Reevej,
of Irvington. Interment In the Clover
port cemetery.
Cattle and Hogs.
Harry Nrrtonand Thos Lyddan were
on the Louisville market last Monday
with a car load ot cows. They nold at
5 to 6yi cents. Prices very satisfactory
Steers, they said, were selling off, and
the market draggy. Top hogs $3 75.
Aged Woman Dies.
Mrs. Letitia Brickey, aged eighty-five,
died at her home near Hardinsburg
Friday morning after a lingering illness
of several years. She is survived by
several children and grandchildren,
The funeral was held Saturday aud her
body was laid to rest in the llrickey
graveyard.
Many a tooth has a gold crown, which
is more than its owner will ever have.
A Distinctive Reason
What is the chief reason for the superi
ority of Royal Baking Powder?
There are several good reasons, but there
is one which distinguishes Rcyal from other
baking powders.
This reason, which every woman should
know, is that Royal Baking Powder is made
from cream of tartar, which comes from
grapes. This means a healthful fruit origin.
It means natural food as distinguished from
mineral substitutes used in other baking
powders.
There is no alum nor phosphate in Royal
Baking Powder.
ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO
New York
GRAND JURY'S REPORT.
To Hon. J. R. Li-nian, Judge Breckinridge Circuit Court:
Wc, the giand jury, respectfully report that we have con
cluded our work, having examined the county jail and puhlic
property and find same in good condition. We have returned
197 indicttnentti, and attachments should issue for all persons
subpoeancd, who have failed to appear, as per attached list.
We caused processes to he issued and served on each and
every witness before the Examining Court, and every one that
was suggested to us by any person, in the cases held over from
the County Court, cnvolving election frauds, and returned in
dictments where wc felt the law and facts justified. We heard
seventy-live or mote witnesses, in an effort to ascertain who
mutilated the ballots in the two or three precincts tit the last
November election. We concluded that the same person
stamped them all, at the ?ame time and place, and same was
not done in tho various precincts. We had the printer of the
ballots, the County Clerk, and deputies, the persons who de
livered them, and the olliccrs who received in the precincts,
before us, and all other suggested witnesses. We ate wholly
unablo to determine, when, where, and how the mutilation oc
curred and all persons who had connection with the ballots of
ficially ato exonerated, except as to negligence, if anv thero
was on their part. The shooting at the Courthouse occurred
as the result of excittnent, ocea-ioned by the discovering of a
guard in the Clerk's otlico and accident on the part of one of
those seeking the identity of the person or persons in the Court
house, and tho?e connected therewith are exonerated. Tho
newspaper reports have exaggerated what did occur and notto
of the mitigating circumstances or explanations have been
published. However, we have meant hereby to end an era of
politics, in all parties, based on the wrong system, and to give
timely warning of tho proposed ending of election corruption
and irregularities in Breckinridge County, and wo ask that
this report bo published, and for the support of the citizens of
our county, irrespective of politics, in our purposes indicated.
II .111 I .. 1 tt , V
ucspecuuiiy suomitteu, I'cnruary L'z, l'.iui.
Jas. A. Dean, Foreman.
John N. Akers, Clerk
Jno. Lyddan.
G. I). Beard.
Joe Glasscock.
. D. Hale.
Ilenrv Dellavcn Moorman,
Commonwealth's Att'y., 0th District.
A copy attest:
Austin Arms.
Z. T. Stith.
liichard McAfee.
Albin H. Withers.
A. N. Skillman.
P. L. Davis.
II. C. Murray,
County Attorney,
Breckinridge County.
P. M. Basham,
Clerk Breckinridge Circuit Court.
0RAT0RICAL CONTEST
Held at Hardinsburg Friday.
Raymond Jenkins, of Eliza
bethtown Is Winner of Contest
Loses Valuable Cows.
Mrs. Oliver Shellman, living near
Stephensport, lost a Jersey heifer val
ued at $75. and a reU cow worth 150,
from eating tubacco. They btoke iuto
the tobacco barn and ate tobacco leaves
and died almost instantly.
Henry C. Hallock, vice president aud
director of the largest milk concern in
the world, started as a milk wagon
driver.
Hardinsburg, Feb. 27. (Special. )
Friday evening at the City Hall a large
and appreciative audience gathered to
hear the orations.
The Hardinsburg orchestra played
first.
Mr. Orian Starks, of llrandenburg,
was the first speaker, his subject being,
"Hyes That See."
Miss Jessie Hudson sang a solo.
Mr. Hoober Neal, of Fordsville, dis
cussed "Man's Problems and Progress. "
Vocal solo, Mrs. J. I). Shaw.
Mr. Hob'ert Shellman, of Hardinsburg,
was the third speaker and his subject
was "Dialing the Trail,"
Solo, Mrs. Russell Compton.
The last speaker, Mr, Raymond Jen
kins, of KlUabethtown, discussed "The
Expansion of the Tuetouic Race,"
While the judges, Mr. Reuben Miller
Holland, of Owensboro, Mr, Walters aud
Mr. T. K, Williams, secretary of the K,
15. A., Louisville, were out to render
their decision the orchestra played a
beautiful air.
Mr. Holland said the judges decided
unanimously in favor of Mr. Raymond
Jenkins nnd presented Mr. Jenkins with
the medal. IJach one of the contestants
did well aud showed that they had spent
time and thought on their subjects.
Fordsville High School and our Coun
ty High School gave a number ot yells
aud sang songs.
l'ifty-four came "up from l'ordsville
aud the train was held over for them.
Meade County Couple
Gives Friends Surprise.
Miss Virginia Lee Cole and Mr. Wra
N. Ellsworth, of llrandenburg, were
married in Louisville Wednesday even
ing, February 23, at the residence ol
the Rev. Aqullla Webb. The wedding
came as a surprise to their friends in
llrandenburg, as no one knew of their
plans. Mr. Ellsworth is city attorney
for llrandenburg. Immediately after
the wedding they left for a trip in thu
East.
