T^g^gp*"-"
VOLUME XXXVII.
CITIZENSHIP STUDY
BY FOREIGN-BORN
BUREAU OF NATURALIZATION
URGES FORMATION OF NIGHT
SCHOOL.
CLERK OF COURT AND SUPER
INTENDENT TO ARRANGE
STUDY PLAN.
Better knowledge of how the United
States government is conducted and the
principles upon which it is founded is the
object of a class about to be formed in
conjunction with the night school now
being conducted at the High School.
While the movement is promoted by the
government itself, the local work will
fall to a certain extent upon the shoulders
of the clerk of the district court, as it
is at this office that the applications for
citizenship are filed and the final papers
issued. It is expected of the clerk of
court that he organize the class from
those foreigners who have expressed a
desire to become citizens and others who
desire to increase their knowledge along
the same lines. But the instruction will
not be entirely upon the subject of citi
zenship and government, but also lessons
in English for those who can neither read,
write nor speak the language of their
adopted country.
W. V. Kasper of the government
naturalization bureau was in the city
several days last week and called upon
Mr. Manderfeld, the clerk of the district
court, for the purpose of getting the
classes started. He made inquiries as to
the number of foreign-born people in the
city, who are not yet citizens just
because they are unable to either read or
write English. He found a considerable
number and believes that the inaugura
tion of the night school will have a
tendency to bring these people to a
realization of their rights and lead them
to become in time full fledged citizens.
He talked with a number of them, in
some instances with the aid of an inter
preter and he found them willing to go to
school if that were a requirement to be
come citizens and voters.
Clerk of Court Manderfeld states that
he is in perfect accord with the scheme
advanced by the naturalization bureau,
but he believes that not alone foreign
born people should become interested in
the class, but many of the American-born
citizens as well, as many of the latter are
totally ignorant of the workings of the
government machinery. He cited in
stances of young fellows of thirty years
of age who admit that they do not know
what the Constitution of the United
States consists of or why there is such a
thing.
Mr. Manderfeld also wants the women
instructed in the workings of the govern
ment. Clerks of courts are now required
to report whether a newly admitted
citizen is single or married. In the latter
case the wife of the new citizen receives
a pamphlet from the government which
sets forth her rights as the wife of a
citizen in addition to the rights of her
husband.
"I would like to see the classes attended
by the women as well as by the men,"
said Mr. Manderfeld, '"because it is the
wife in nearly all cases upon whom rests
the burden of raising the younger genera
tion to become useful citizens. It is
therefore just as important for the wife
to know something about the government
she lives under as it is for the husband.
Also woman suffrage is bound to come
sooner or later and women might just as
well prepare themselves to be able to
exercise their rights while they have the
opportunity."
It is the intention of the government
to have these classes free of charge, but
as a charge is made for the present night
school, this arrangement may not be
possible unless some public body like the
Commercial Club takes care of the ad
ditional expense. Mr. Manderfeld and
Supt. Hess of the public schools were in
conference this week working out a plan
and the class probably will be started
early this month. Present intentions
are that the citizenship class be main
tained as long as night sessions are held
at the High School, but this is an ar
rangement which will depend entirely
upon the size of the class and the regula
rity of attendance.
WONDERLANDS OF AMERICA DE
SCRIBED.
A large and appreciative audience
greeted Prof. E. N Lehnerts at the
Catholic auditorium Thursday evening
when he lectured upon the "Wonder
lands of America," under the auspices
of the local lodge of the Knights of Co-
lumbus. Prof. Lehnerts has traveled
extensively through the United States
and especially through the mountainous
West, where he has photographed some
of the marvels of the Creator. He
showed scenes in the great western parks
—Yellowstone National park, Yosemite
park and Glacier park, the great peaks
and deep canyons of the Rockies, the
queer formations in the Garden of the
Gods and the giant forests of California,
Oregon and Washington. He also gave
a short lecture on his trip through ice
covered Greenland, illustrated with slides
of the wonderful sunset scenery of that
country. Prof. Lehnerts is an enter
taining talker and often diverges from
his set lecture to illustrate some in
teresting point, thus keeping the atten
tion of his audience throughout.
WIDER SCOPE OF JAP PROBLEM
SEEN BY LECTURER.
Montaville Flowers' lecture upon "The
Japanese Problem" at the High School
auditorium last Monday evening, may
be considered the best number of the
lecture course given under the auspices
of the Current News Club of this city.
Mr. Flowers is a native of California and
his residence there has given him op
portunity to study the Japanese problem
from a local angle not possible from a
distance.
The speaker gave a history of the
settlement of the Japs in California, their
encroachment upon the business in
dustries of the white people until the
latter found themselves face to face with
the alternative either of leaving the state
or adopting such laws as would put a
quietus on the ambitions of the little
yellow men. The famous alien law of
California was the result and would have
ended the Japanese encroachment effect
ually so far as local conditions were con
cerned. The Japs by no means accepted
the authority of the state of California,
however, and the underground channels
of diplomacy at Washington changed the
question from a local issue to a national
one. Pressure was brought to bear upon
the legislature of California and the
governor of the state until the law was
amended in such a manner as to kill its
far-reaching effects.
Mr. Flowers contends that the Japa
nese peril is not a local one with Califor
nia, but that other states will suffer in
like manner unless national legislation
is resorted to or the several states adopt
similar laws to those proposed by Cali
fornia. Mr. Flowers is a forceful, con
vincing speaker and held the interest of
his audience at all times.
This was the final lecture of the lyceum
course for this season. Every number
of the course has been of a high class and
the Current News Club may well feel
elated over the success which has crown
ed their efforts.
NEW ULM SKAT PLAYERS COP
COIN AT TOURNAMENT.
Skat players from New Ulm did fairly
well at the state tournament held in
Minneapolis last Sunday afternoon and
evening as they landed two first prizes
and one second, aggregating $42. They
also landed the mid-sammer tournament
for this city and skat players from all
over the state will be here some time
in June to participate. This is tie
second time the state tournament comes
to New Ulm, the first time being two
years ago.
New Ulm is also given recognition on
the official roster of the State Skat
League. Wm. J. Julius was elected vice
president and J. P. Graff a member of the
board of directors.
The prizes won by the three local
players are as follows:
John Backer, first prize for highest
number of points, 821, $25.
Emil G. Hage, first prize for tournier
against most matadors, diamond against
7, $10.
A. S. Dorn, for second highest play,
grand ouvert with 3 matadors, 192, $7.00.
The New Ulm players left for Minne
apolis Sunday morning on a special train,
returning after the close of the second
session. All claim it was the best tour
nament yet held by the league. It was
attended by over 200 players.
GERMAN COMEDY AT MANKATO.
Local people have received invitations
to attend the production of a German
comedy at Mankato next Sunday evening
and no doubt a number of them will
respond. The play will be produced by
home talent and staged at the Mankato
theatre.
The title of the play is "Der Liebe
Onkel" and is said to be one of the
jolliest and most entertaining comedies
written in the German language.
The cast is chosen from members of
the Thalia Club of Mankato, a dramatic
organization of considerable reputation.
A feature of the evening will be several
numbers by the Mankato United German
Singers, to be rendered between acta.
BRILLIANT NIGHTS
FOR COUNTY FAIR
CARNIVAL COMPANY TO BE EN
GAGED TO FURNISH ENTER-
TAINMENT.
DAY ALL DAY IN DAY TIME BUT
NO NIGHT AT BROWN COUN-
TY FAIR.
Directors of the Brown County Fair
Association at their meeting last Wednes
day evening decided to set the fair dates
for Thursday, Friday and Saturday,
Sept. 21, 22 and 23 and with the naming
of the dates activities toward the success
of this year's fair have begun, as the
several committees are already casting
about for suitable attractions for the
entertainment of Fair visitors.
Secretary Engelbert states that there
is a possibility of change of date in view
of the fact that the carnival company
desired may already have been booked.
As was decided by the stockholders of
the association at their annual meeting
three weeks ago, the high price of steel
has made the erection of a new grand
stand this year impossible, but all the
more effort will be put into the fair this
year in order to draw greater crowds and
assure the steel structure for 1917.
The race program which has been tried
out by the fair association in the past
will be eliminated this year, because it
is not believed that races good enough
to warrant the expense connected there
with can be pulled off. The scarcity of
good race horses on the one hand and
the greater fascination of races with
automobile and other motor driven
vehicles may be regarded as the causes
of the declining of the sport of kings.
Other sports, however, will take the
place of the race meet and visitors to the
fair will not miss the horses, it is be
lieved. Negotiations will be entered
into with several of the large carnival
companies and one of the stellar attrac
tions secured. The fair management
proposes to make the coming exhibitions
especially attractive this year and with
a first-class carnival company showing
on the grounds illuminated by myriads
of multi-colored lights this will be
possible. None but the very cleanest
and most attractive exhibitions will be
permitted on the grounds.
The racing feature probably will be
elaborated upon by staging several good
automobile races, motor-cycle contests,
etc. Also races for the boys, afoot and
on wheels, mule races and lumber wagon
races. Such is the tenative program
as proposed by the members informally
at last Wednesday's meeting.
fes&yfe
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1,1916.
OUR MEN OF AFFAIRS
AUG. DAHL, Manager New Ulm Roller Mill
MAYOR DECIDES TO
HEAD CITY TICKET
PETITIONS BEING CIRCULATED
FOR PLACING CANDIDATES
ON BALLOT.
ALL OLD OFFICIALS WILL AGAIN
SEEK ELECTION THIS
SPRING.
Although Mayor Fritsche announced
time and again that he would not be
a candidate for re-election as the city's
chief executive, he has yielded to the
pressure brought to bear upon him by
the business and professional men of the
city and he will undoubtedly have a
clear field at the coming election, it being
understood that none of the other
embryo candidates would file if theThey
present mayor could be induced to again
accept the nomination and election.
The Mayor reached the decision to run
again last Tuesday evening, when a com
mittee of representative business men
called at his office and explained the
situation to him. It was pointed out
that a contest at the present time would
only tend to create enmity between rival
candidates and their followers, likely to
result in such bitterness as would retard
the city's future and disturb present
cordial business relations. Mayor
Fritsche pleaded that he had not the
time to devote to the office, but to no
avail. The committee simply would not
take "No" for their answer and finally
exacted a promise that he would permit
the circulation of a petition.
Petitions for placing upon the ballot
the names of Dr. L. A. Fritsche for mayor
Gottlieb Oswald for city treasurer, and
Wm. Backer for city clerk, were cir
culated during the past week and genera
ly signed. For these offices the signa
tures of about 200 qualified electors are
required as they are voted for all over
the city. The law requires^lO per cent
of the total registered vote at the pre
ceding election.
So far no other candidates have an
nounced themselves for either the office
of clerk or treasurer and it is not be
lieved that the present incumbents will
have any opposition.
The terms of the two city justices also
expire this spring, but it is expected that
the two present incumbents, N. Henning
sen and Col. Buschers will be selected
again. The terms of Alfred Baltrusch
and Hugo Windhorn, city constables
also expire.
The only contest which has material
ized so far is in the first ward, where both
the present alderman, Fred Behnke and
the former member of the city council,
Herman Nagel, are circulating petitions
to get their names on the ballot. The
contest is a good-natured one, however,
and will not engender any bitterness.
The term of F. H. Retzlaff in the third
ward expires this spring and it is generally
understood that he will again file for the
office. He was prominently mentioned
as a candidate for mayor in case Mayor
Fritsche should have refused to make
the run. In the second ward the term
of Theo. Mueller expires, although he is
the junior member of the city council.
He is filling the unexpired term of Christ
Ruemke, who died in office. Mr. Muel
ler most probably will also file as a can
didate. An attempt was made to pit
one of the younger polititions of this ward
against Mr. Mueller, but they have not
agreed upon one of their number and the
scheme is liable to fall through.
PAROLED REFORMATORY IN
MATE WORRIES POLICE.
What to do with sixteen-year-old
Arthur Schroer is a question which seems
to be bothering the local police officers.
claim he will not stay at home and
behave, the reform school from which
institute he has been paroled does not
want him and to cap the climax the
jailor at the county jail refused to hold
him unless properly committed.
Last week the young fellow was picked
up by the local police and was being
taken to the jail by Chief Klause. The
boy's foster mother lives near the jail and
when the chief and his prisoner had
nearly reached their destination the boy
broke away and ran home. It is stated
that in chasing the boy the chief took a
shot at him, but missed. He finally
regained possession of the prisoner, how
ever, but not until the entire neighbor
hood was in an uproar over the escape
and arrest. The boy finally went along
to jail with Deputy Sheriff Jahnke, who
had been attracted to the scene by the
shooting.
Stories told by the sheriff and chief
are quite at variance at several points.
The chief claims that he had orders from
the state school to arrest the boy, but
claims that it was a telephone message.
The sheriff and jailer waited until evening
for a formal commitment and when this
did not appeap the boy was released upon
advice of the county attorney.
Young Schroer's record is said to be
not of the very best and State Agent De
Witt, who arrived in the city Saturday
stated that the authorities at Red Wing
had failed in using ordinary methods of
reform. He was paroled about three
months ago in the hope that a change in
surroundings would be of benefit. He
has since then spent his time in a Wiscon
sin town, at Mankato and the last three
weeks in and near New Ulm. The boy's
foster mother has agreed to make a final
attempt at reforming him and he will not
be returned to the training school for the
present.
GEM THEATRE SOLD AGAIN
Buying and selling moving picture
houses seems to have become a pleasant
diversion in New Ulm, judging from
the way they are changing hands of
late. The Gem theatre, opened less
than a month ago by the Misses Leen,
has changed hands once more and A. G.
Robinson of Northfield is now the pro
prietor and manager of that playhouse,
the change taking place Thursday of
last week.
This is Mr. Robinson's first venture
in the movie game, but he states that
he will give the public even better serv
ice than they have heretofore enjoyed.
He states that if the film service is a
matter of money the patrons of his house
will see nothing but the best.
S. K. Leen, who was the proprietor
of the Ruby up to a few months ago and
also interested in the Gem, probably
will leave New Ulm, but is undecided
as to his future location.
FIRE LOSSES IN OUR COUNTY
1915
The need of a more general adoption of
fire prevention methods in Brown county
is shown by the annual report issued by
Robert W. Hargadine, State Fire Marshal,
of fires in this county during the year
ended December 31, 1915.
There were 13 fires during the year and
the loss was $25,492. This is greater,
both in the numbers of fires and in the
aggregate losses as compared with 1914.
In that year the losses in Brown county
was $12,905 and the number offiresre-attention
ported 12.
However, the number of fires and the
aggregate loss for the past year shows
that just a little more care in the elimina
tion of fire hazards and a little more gener
al appreciation of the need of fire preven
tion will place Brown county in the ranks
of those whose losses were reduced during
the past year.
The first registration day preceding
the city election will be March 28th..
NUMBER 9
COMMERCIALCLUB
PLANNINGBANQUET
ARRANGEMENTS FOR ANNUAL
AFFAIR COME UP AT NEXT
MEETING.
PLANS ORNAMENTAL LIGHTS ON
TWO STREETS LEADING TO
DEPOTS.
Discussion relative to the holding of
the annual banquet, plans for the pro
posed white way on First North and
First'South streets and several other
matters of importance are to come up
at the regular monthly meeting of the
Commercial Club to be held next Monday
evening.
The annual banquet always is one of
the stellar events of the year for the club
members and this year will be no ex
ception if plans proposed by several of
the members are carried into effect. The
banquet probably will be held the last
week in March or the first week in April.
The proposition of lighting First North
street from Minnesota street as far as
the Eagle Mills and First South street
from Minnesota to the depot by means of
the ornamental light clusters is the other
matter of importance to come up. It is.
proposed to erect the ornamental posts
at greater intervals than obtains on
Minnesota street, but sufficiently close
to properly light up a section of the city
which at the present time is sadly in need
of better illumination. Several of the
business men have advocated the plan
for some time, but no organized effort
to get results along that line has been
made up to this time.
Several of the prominent business men
have expressed their approval of the
scheme but the general opinion seems to
prevail that the ornamental posts should
be of the same style and quality as now
used on Minnesota street. They seem
to balk at the suggestion which has been
made to put in a less expensive post with
only one light. The business men argue
that this would cheapen the looks of the
lighting system more than the saving
in dollars and cents would amount
to. They also argue that uniformity
should be the rule and not the exception,
even if the expense of installation is a
trifle greater.
The ornamental lighting system on
Minnesota street was paid for in the first
instance by the business men by popular
subscription, the posts coming to ap
proximately $65 each. The business
men furnished the city with the posts
and the installation, wiring, etc., has
been done by the city employes. The
same procedure is proposed for the two
streets now under consideration. One
of the prominent business men predicted
that there would be no trouble in raising
the necessary amount to purchase the
posts and it is known that the members
of the city council would look with favor
upon the move and make provision for
its installation and maintenance and
furnishing the electricity.
The street leading to the Northwestern
depot is not so well illuminated as it
should be, it is pointed out. Passengers
coming into the city for the first time
gain the impression that New Ulm has a.
very poor lighting system, because so
little of the splendid illumination of
Minnesota street can be seen from the
depot. Two strings of ornamental lights,
on First North and on First South would
change the objectionable condition effec
tively.
Several other matters of interest to the
club members and the city at large are
to come up before the meeting, among
them the proposition of a new business
college advanced by a firm which con
ducts a number of these institutions in
Southern Minnesota and Iowa. One of
the owners of the colleges was in the city
a few days ago in conference with Presi
dent Ottomeyer of the Commercial Club,
who took the visitor about the city and
introduced him to the business men. He
was impressed with the city as being an
ideal location for an educational institu
tion of that kind and it is possible that he
will decide to locate here provided he
finds a favorable sentiment.
President Ottomeyer desires to call
to- an erroneous impression
which seems to have gained circulation
as to the uses of the club rooms. "The
rooms are there for all of the business men
of the city, whether they are members of
the club or not," said Mr. Ottomeyer.
We want the business men to make free
use of them for conferences or committee "l
meetings and especially when a stranger JT
visits the city to take him up to the club &
rooms and get him acquainted with all 4f&
of us. Make him feel at home. The %f
impression that the club is an exclusive £5
one is entirely erroneous."
1
1-
1^
ay
