THE BARUE DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX-NO. 297.
1JAKHE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, MAHCII 1, 1910.
PUICE, ONE CENT.
DRIVE
HALTS
DEAD
There Is Virtually a Lul
Along the Entire Front
Where for a Week and
More Desperate Fighting
Has Taken Place Ger
mans Rest Near French
Inner Defenses
QUIET MAY MEAN
SIMPLY PREPARATION
French Despatches Profess
Satisfaction with the Sit
uation North of Verdun
Where the French Have
Strongly Fortified Posi
tions Italy May Declare
War on Germany
The German offensive against Verdun,
which had brought the crown prince's
armies up to the inner line of French de
fenses, has been halted there, according
to to-day's official statement from Paris.
The lull which yesterday gave signs of
etting in now extends along virtually
the entire front, where the desperate
struggles of the past week and more
iave been going on.
Unofficial commentators in the entente
ipitals admit themselves at a loss to
3etermine yet whether the German drive
has spent its force or whether the pause :
Is simply a prelude to a renewal before
the hard-won positions at Verdun or else
where on the. front.
Paris dispatches declare the situation
ort of Verdun is satsfactory to the
French, who have strongly fortified posi
tions. No mention of fighting at Verdjn
Is made in the Berlin official statement.
To-day marks the opening of the new
German submarine campaign in which
armed merchantmen are to be considered
as warships and treated accordingly.
The Italian Parliament, which is re
Assembling to-day, is expected to take up
, the question of declaration of war by
t Italy against all the foes of the entente
powers. Italy never has declared war on
Germany.
To-day was the last day for voluntary
. enlistment in Great Britain. Compulsion
fcereafter will be effective.
Paris, March 1. There is nothing of
importance to report in the region north
cf Verdun or in the Woevre district, ac
cording to the announcement of the war
office this afternoon.
sided at meeting at Carnegie hall, while
at the name hour Oscar 8. Strauss railed
to order another assemblage at tlio Cen
tury theatre.
Robert ltaeon, former amlmssador to
Fruiu'o, advocated obligatory military
service and reHjiect fur international law,
in an address at the Carnegie hall meet
ing. Mayor John 1 .Mitchell before leav
ing for !St. IuU at the head of a large
delegation of prominent New York men
to attend the mayors' conference on na
tional defeiiMp, spoke briefly, pleading for
universal military Mervice.
Mr. Strauss said the spirit of the pre
paredness movement was not to urge war,
lint to make preparations to command
peace. .
George W. Wickersham, former Unit
ed States attorney general, defined pre
paredness as "a word made in Germany,
understood in the British navy and just
beginning to be understood by the Amer
ican people."
Samuel (iompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor, sent a
letter in which he declared "there must
be not only the will, but the power to
establish a definite liberty and justice
if they are to become real forces in our
national life.
Bishop P. J. Hayes, speaking as the
representative of Cardinal rurley, ex
pressed the hope that the movement for
preparedness would extend throughout
tho country.
UNITED STATES
WILL NOT TAKE
FURTHER ACTION
BIG STATION
ATMONTREAL
DESTROYED
VOUNG COUPLE ARRESTED.
Bonaventure Structure Be
longing to Grand Trunk
Railway Co. Burned, the
Loss Being Estimated at
$300,000 It Was Also
Used by Central Vermont
Until the Administration Is Certain That
Congress Stands Back of the Presi
dent Germany's Latest As
surances Fairly Satis
. factory.
Washington. D. C, March 1. Or-
manv's latent assurances on the conduct
of submarine warfare, presented Monday
bv Ambassador Iternstorff, was not so
broad as the United States desires but it
was indicated that no further steps
would be taken bv this government until-
the administration is certain the action
will not be embarrassed in Congress.
At an earlv conference to-lav Presi
dent Wilson and the administration lead
ers made plans for bringing the armed
ship agitation in Congress to an end im
mediately, with a demonstration of unity
to convince Germany that the American
Congress stands behind the foreign pol
icy of the government. Confident that
they can beat the anti-administration
resolutions by a heavy vote, the presi
dent and the leaden framed plans to
bring them out first on the floor of the
House.
President Wilson made it clear that he
did not. want a vote of resolution, ex
pressing support of lirs conduct and as
the result a vote probably will be taken
on some resolution warning Americans
off armed ships.
FIREMEN SAY LOSS
WAS DUE TO PLOT
But Montreal Police Do Not
Claim the Same Cause, As
serting That the Outbreak
of Flames Was Due to
Crossed Wires Canadian
Government Interested
CANNOT TAKE STAND
WITHOUT CONGRESS
Montreal, March 1. Bonaventure sta
tion of the Grand Trunk Railway com
pany was destroyed by fire to-day with
loss of $300,000. The police declared
that a preliminary investigation indi
cated that the fire was due to crossed
wires, but the fire department officials
say they have reason to believe that the
building was destroyed as the result of
an enemy plot. In addition to being used
by the Grand Trunk Railway company,
the station was used by the Canadian
government railways and the Delaware
& Hudson and Central Vermont railway.
Howard G. Keiley, vice-president of the
Grand Trunk, in a statement, declared
that the fire was caused by an accidental
short circuit.
Alleged to Have Obtained Morphine and
Cocaine Contrary to Law,
Burlington, March I. A young couple
of many aliases were locked up in the
Chittenden county jail late last night on
the serious charge of having obtained
morphine and cocaine contrary to the
laws of the United States and having
forged a physician's name to a prescrip
tion. Their arrest followed quick action
on the iart of Fred Whittemore, deputy
collector of internal revenue, who learned
ot their game which they were carry
ing on in this city yesterday afternoon
and, following them up, arrested them nt
Shanley's drug store in Wigooski late
last night.
The couple, who may have come here
from New York, where they are wanted
for the same offense, had a very ingeni
ous method of beating the law. They had
printed regular physicians' prescription
pads, such as are used by physicians to
prescribe narcotics under the law, which
recently went into effect. These blanks
read as follows: "Edward L. Pay son,
M. I)., 264 Church street, Middlcbury;
telephone number ; registered number
4801." The last numlxT is that which
Identifies every registered physician who
has obtained the right to prescribe nar
cotics. These false prescriptions were
presented at a drug store to obtain the
"dope." The couple had many aliases
under which they obtained their small
prescriptions. t .
The suspicions of Deputy Collector
Whittemore were aroused yesterday aft
ernoon, when a clerki from Henderson's
drug store called at his office at the fed- J
eral building to obtain a list ot the
physicians of this state who are regis
tered to prescribe narcotics. Mr. Whitte
more accompanied the clerk back to the
store and, after seeing the prescription,
decided that it was a forgery. To veri
fy his suspicions he telephoned to Middle-
bury, where he found there was no
Church street and no Dr. Fayson.
The head office of the New Hampshire
district, which is the district made up
PAYS $1,250,000
TO SETTLE SUIT
John L. Billard Squares Up
with New Haven R. R.
on Stock Deal
MADE $25 A SHARE
ON TRANSACTION
Bought and Sold 119,000 Bos
ton & Maine Rail
road Shares
New York, March 1. The suit brought
by the present administration of the
New York, New Haven & Hartford rail
road to recover from John L. Billard of
Menden, Conn., the profits alleged to be
the New Haven railroad in a deal in
which the New Haven purchased shares
of the Boston &, Maine stock seven years
ago. has been settled, it was announced
at the offices of the railroad to-day. Bil
lard has paid the New Haven railroad
$1,230,000, it was stated.
Amonir the other defendants in the
Billard suit, who share in the payment
of the settlement money, were former
President Charles S. Mellen and Edward
I). Bobbins, former general counsel of the
tfew Haven. Billard, who is a Meriden
coal dealer, purchased 110,000 shares of
the Boston & Maine stock from the New
of New Hampshire, Maine and Vermont, , mven m iwm Ior P" snarc ana
i- at i..fa,,..i, ,i m,i,. if -t,ifto. sold them back a year later at $150. It
CENTRAL VERMONT AFFECTED.
President Wilson Writes that the United
' States Must Show Unity to Ger
many Writes Letter to
Representative Pou.
EVERY SOUL LOST
ON BRITISH SHIP
IN MEDITERRANEAN
V The Thornaby Left Sunderland, England,
on January 19, for Palermo, Sicily
All of Her Crew Killed
or Drowned.
liOndon, March 1. The British steam-
" (hip Thornaby is reported to have been
f funk and all the members of her crew
ere killed or drowned.
) The Thornaby, which was a ship of
1.7S2 tons, sailed on January 19 from
Sunderland, England, for Palermo, Sicily.
The dispatch fails to reveal whether
the Tornahy was sunk before the new
submarine order of the central powers
vh effective or whether the vessel was
prmed.
U-BOATS SOWING MINES
y Is Belief Expressed By Kansas Man, Sur
vivor of Maloja.
London, March 1. That German sub
marines have been sowing mines off Do
ver was the belief expressed yesterday
by Ralph Foster of Kansas and other
eurvivors of the Maloja disaster, includ
ing some of the officers of the ship. The
fact that a number of disasters have oc
curred in the neighborhood of Dover dur
ing the past two Sunday is considered
In some quarter in London as possible
evidence that tierman submarines, know
ing that a number of boats Hear for for
eign ports on that day, have taken ad
vantage of that fact to ship in as near
the coast as possible in the night time
and discharge cargo? of explosive.
Mr. Foster had thrilling experience.
He was afloat in the icy water and on
. upturned boats an hour before he was
res ued.
Washington, D. C, March 1. President
Wilson decided yesterday that he cannot
proceed' with the German submarine ne
gotiations while dissension in Congres
weakens his position before the world, so
he called for a show down on the pend
ing proposals to war Americans off mer
chant ships of the European belligerents
armed for defense
Making clear that he considers the
president, and not Congress, charged with
the conduct of foreign relations of the
t'nited States, he wrote a letter to Rep
resentative Pou, acting chairman of the
House rules committee, asking him to
provide parliamentary means lor bring
ing the agitation out into the open on
the floor of the House for full discussion
and a vote.
The president's letter to Mr. Pou, the
signal that the administration was ready
to give Germany a demonstration of uni
ty follows:
"My Dear Mr. Pou:
"Inasmuch as 1 learn that Mr. Henry,
the chairman of the committee on rules,
is absent in Texas, I take the liberty of
calling your attention, as ranking mem
ber of the committee, to a matter of
grave concern to the country which can,
1 believe, be handled, under the rules of
the House, only by that committee.
"The report that there are divided
counsels in Congress in regard to the for
eign policy of the government is 1m ing
made industrious use of in foreign capi
tals. I believe that report to be false,
but 60 long as it is anywhere credited
it cannot fail to do the greatest harm
and expose the country to the most se
rious risks. I therefore feel justified in
asking that your committee will permit
me to urge an early vote uKn the reso
lution with regard to travel on armed
merchantmen which have recently been
so much talked about, in order that there
may be afforded an immediate opportuni
ty for full public discussion and aition
uisin them and that all doubts and con
jectures may be swept away and our for
eign relations once more cleared of dam
aging misunderstandings.
The matter is of so grave unortnnce
Is Compelled to Make Up Its Trains at
St. Henry.
St.. Albans, March 1. Because of the
fire in the Bonaventure station in Mont
real to-day the Central Vermont Railway
company haslieen obliged to make up its
trains at St. Henrv, and all the trains
from the north are running several min
utes late. Telephone communication
with Montreal lias been almost wholly
cut oil.
more got into connection with that office
he found that there was no such regis
tration number as 4801. He then placed
the matter before United States District
Attorney V. A. Bullard, who made out
warrants for both the man and woman.
SWEPT INTO POLICE NET.
was alleged that Billard was acting in
the interests of the New Haven, which
I was forbidden by the Massachusetts laws
io own iioston a. .Maine siock, dui, laier
a legislative act permitted the acquisi
tion.
Tho suit was brought in the Connecti
cut courts to recover $2,700,000, and the
settlement i, therefore, a compromise.
AUTHOR OF SEVERAL BOOKS.
Lorenro Sears Was Formerly Professor
at University of Vermont.
Providence, R. I., March 1. Rev. Dr.
Lorenzo Sears, formerly professor of rhet
oric in the University of Vermont and
holder of professorships in Brown uni
versity from 1800 to HoO, when he re
tired, died yesterday at his home, 163
Butler avenue, at the age of 77 years.
He was born in Somerville, Mass., April
IS, 1838, the son of Nathaniel and Cor
delia Morton Scars. He was graduated
from Yale university in IKtil and from
the General Theological seminary in New
York three years later. In his later years
Trinty college bestowed the honor of
A. M., Litt. D., on him.
After holding pastorates in Connecti
cut, Rhode Island and New Hampshire,
from 1804 to 188o, he assumed the chair
of professor of rhetoric and English lit
erature in the University of Vermont for
three years; then, for the. next 16 years,
he held professorships in rhetoric, and
American literature at Brown university.
He was author of several books on
American literature, notably, "The His
tory of Oratory, 1 he Occasional Ad
dress, Its Composition and Literature,"
"Principles and Methods of Literary Crit
icism," "American Literature in the Co
lonial and National Periods,'' "Seven
Lwws.nf Literary Composition," and "The
Makers of American Literature."' He
also wrote an historical - introduction to
"The Library of Modern Eloquence," and
was the author of many pamphlets and
reviews.
Mrs. Antonio Labrana Accused of Liquor
Dealing with Ora Kellogg.
Merchants and bankers were, not the
only ones to nitible at the bait dangled
by Ora Kelligg, who is alleged to hav
confessed to extensive forging operations
in Barre last week, if the allegations
made by the police in the case of State
vs. Mrs. Antonio Labrana of 27 Granite
street are not disproven. Yesterday
Chief Sinclair, Officer Harry Gamble and
Officer David' Henderson raided Mrs. La
brana's apartments and seized a consid
erable quantity of intoxicating liquor.
Soon after 3 o'clock Jthe woman, .uraa at
rested on a charge of selling illegally and
arraigned before Magistrate H. W. Scott
The respondent pleaded not guilty and
was admitted to bail in the sum of $.550,
A hearing was et to-day for Wednesday,
March 8, and a jury will be drawn next
Morula v
The police allege that Kellogsr, who is
at present in the county jail, having
failed to furnish bail of $1,000 when ar
raigned Monday, went to Mrs. La brana's
house last week and bargained with her
for beer and whiskey. His visit was
NO AGREEMENTS;
CUTTERS ARE OUT
IN MANY PLACES
WESTERLY REPORTED
TO HAVE SETTLED
In Eight Granite Cities and Towns There
Is Complete Suspension of Work,
According to Information Re
ceived in Barre.
FRENCH ARTILLERY EFFECTIVE.
According to Official Report, Several Ger
man Movements Were Stopped.
Paris, March 1. The official communi
cation issued last night by the war office
reads:
"Between Soissons and Rheims our ar
tillery bombarded imjKirtant points be
hind the enemy s front,
made at a time when he had made or
contemplated making visits to a number
of local stores, where his largesse in the
matter of distributing bad cheeks caused
a considerable stir. It is said that Kel
logg scribbled off a check for $"t on the
People's National bank, the check being
drawn on the order of Murray Cutler,
and passed it ovr to Mrs. Labrana. The
woman, according to the police, dug into
her store of real money to the extent of
$4.35 and passed it over as change to the
alleged customer, Kellogg. hen Kel
logg came back from Canada Monthly
night he is said to have included a story
of his dealings with Mrs. labrana while
making a clean breast of his check opera
tions. Alleged contraband, seized at labrana's
included a barrel partly full of cream
ale, a barrel full of bottled leer, two
quarts of gin, two quarts of port wine
and a quart each of whiskey and brandy.
JURORS CONFIRMED
BY ALDERMEN
Board Also Granted Use of Opera House
to Associated Churches for Mass
Meeting Sunday Evening,
March 5.
PERANT0NI COLOMBO.
Marriage Took Place at the City Clerk's
Office.
At the office of the city clerk this aft
ernoon at 12:30 o'clock. Miss Josephine
Colombo of 21 Elliston street and John
Perantoni of 33 Third street were mar
ried bv Justice of the Peace James Mae-
kay. Only a few intimate friends wit
nessed the ceremony. The bride was at
tended by Miss Lena Calcagni and E.
Colombo acted as groomsman. Both the
In Champagne our batteries shattered J lri(lp ,, r wpll known jn (h
German organizations in the region of
hill 103. To the west of Maissons De
Champagne the Germans exploded a
mine, the crater of which we occupied.
"In the region of Verdun the bombard
ment continued on the north front with
and lies so clearly within the field of ex- 1 less intensity than on the preceding days.
ecutie initiative' that I venture to hope j No inimtry action was reported in the
that vour committee wlil not think that j course of
tlie day. The (iernion en-
I am taking unwarranted liberty in mak
ing this sugestion as to the business of
the House, anil I very earnestly commend
it to thir immediate consideration.
"Cordially and sincerely your.
"Woodrow Wibon."
AN INCENDIASf? FIRI:
WANT MILLION NAMES.
Campaign for National Security League
Started Last Night.
, New York. March 1. A campaign to
i btain a million members wa opened bv
the Nations! Security league last night i
with two mas meeting here at whuh
Flames Started oa Roof of Shed and
Burned Rapidly.
St. Albans. March 1. The house on the
A. If. KotT farm on the Sheldon road
at (ireen's (Wner was burned jesterday
and the loss was total as there was no
insurance. It is believed that the fire
was of incendiary origin. The flame
broke out on the rwf of a shed and hd
gained gTeat headway when discovered
by the inmates of the lions.
There have been aeveral incendiary
fires in that vicinity. Two v ta r ag a'
Urge lrn on the Foster rlare was
trenched themselves on the siopes nortii
of the Coba Du Poivre, the first ridge of
which is occupied by our advanced ele
ments. "We carried out a violent fire on Sam
ogneux. where an enemy battalion had
assembled.
"At varans points on our front in the
Woevre our artillery fire prevented at
tacks in the course of preparation from
being carried out.
Italian community. .Mr. I'erantoni is
employed in Barre as an expressman. To
night in the Knights of Columbus hall
on North Main street, friends of the cou
ple will tender them a wedding recep
tion. An Italian dinner will be one of
the features of the affair and afterward
there will be dancing.
Grand and petit jurors were appointed
and confirmed at the regular meeting of
the board of aldermen last evening, the
session being the last aldcrmanic gather
ing before election and, by the way, one
of the fchortest of the year. Aidenuan
beast presided and all members were
present with the exception of Alderman
J. A. Healy, who has been bothered con
siderably of late with a knee injury. On
the motion of Alderman Glyssou, the fol
lowing jury appointments were confirmed
through the medium of a single ballot
cast bv the clerk: Grand jurors, John 11.
Jones and H. C. Leonard; petit jurors,
B. P. White, George Cooper, George H.
Emery, J. K. Anderson, W. W. Russell,
J. E. Gregory, J. J. Cavhuc, George W.
Parks, James Field, Alexander Dowers,
C. N. Kenyon, and H. N. Cheney.
A communication from the associated
churches asked for the use of the opera
house on the evening of Sunday, March 5,
for the purpose of a mass meeting in
which local issues pertaining to the legal-
zed sale of intoxicating liquors are to
be discussed. On the motion of Alder
man Rossi the request was granted with
the conditio! that the church committee
make the proper arrangements with the
eeeees of the theatre. Plans for eloc-
ion day insofar as they concern the
preparation of the voting booths, polling
laces etc., were discussed and it was
ecided to retain the ward 1 polling quar
ters at the Church street school.
Overseer W. J. Clapp submitted the
following financial statement for the poor
lepartment in January: Overdraft,
18.88. appropriation from the city coun
cil, $750, disbursements as per vouchers
$081.84. balance, $49.28, total, $750, net
expenses of the department, 081.84. The
report was accepted.
Warrants were approved for payment
in the following order; Street depart
ment payroll, $114.41, street, surface
sewer and sidewalk accounts; water de
partment payroll, $30.40; fire department
payroll. $80.50; police department pay
roll,, $100.84; G. A. Hernia,. $14, services
as janitor; N. D. Phelps Co., $290.83,
sewer pipes.
Granite industries in Quincv, Mass.,
Bethel and South Rvegate, Rockport,
Mass., Milford, Mass., Keenc, N. II., Iitz
William, N. 11., and Stony Creek, Conn.,
are at a standstill to-day, according to
nformation which reached The Times
this afternoon. In every center men
tioned bills of varying length expired
last night and efforts to reach a common
basis on which new agreements could be
put in force appear to have been futile.
At Westerly, R. I., an agreement was
reached last night for a four-year bill at
$4 per clay with no restrictions on the
ire of the tools to be used. 1 he Times'
informant intimates that the tool issue
is not paramount in any of the granite
enters where negotiations are in prog
ress to-day. Kather, the cutters and
manufacturers have split on the question
of how long the new agreements shall be
operative. The manufacturers are said
to be contending for a four-year bill to
expire when Barre's bill expires in 1020.
Viiincy granite cutters .went out this
morning. At a meeting of the cutters
last night the union committee reported
that the manufacturers had offered them
$4 per day for a four-year agreement.
he wage ucale appeared to lie satisfac
tory, but the branch turned down the of
fer after declaring in favor of an agree
ment whose lease of life will be either
three or five years. It is understood that
English speaking cutters opposed the
four-year bill and that the offer of the
manufacturers waa received with favor
by the so-called foreign speaking ele
ment. The tool isue appears to have
settled itself, inasmuch as the Westerly
cutters did not stand out finally for a
one-inch limit.
Rockport, Milford, Ki-ene, Fitzwilliam
and Stony Creek granitecutters are said
to be contending for a tliree- or five-year
bill, while the manufacturers in those
centers are holding out for the four year
agreement. Of Bethel, it is said that the
cutters and manufacturers will probably
reach an agreement shortly. The report
that Hardwick cutters and manufactur
ers were in complete accord and had
reached a settlement is modified some
what by a "second "report which lias it
that Hardwick manufacturers signed the
bill after the Woodbury Granite Co..
large employers of labor, had withdrawn
from the association. Neither report has
lieen verified.
Deadlock in Negotiate ""s at
Time of Expiration.-, the
Old Agreements mscd
-si'
Quite General S'c' ension
of Work Outs' of the
Barre Granite , It
QUINCY SUSPENSION
MOST IMPORTANT
Bethel Granite Manufactur
ing Industry Shut Down,
No Word Having Come
from the Woodbury Gran
ite Co. Business Condi
tions Were Already Quiet
There
One
THE QUINCV DEADLOCK.
Will Be
The opening of the month of March
brought about a suspension of work in
nearly all the New England gTanite cen
ters outside of the Barre granite belt, as
the ojd agreements in those places ex
pired with the last day of February and
new agrements were not signed by that
time. The chief point concerned is Quin
cy, Mass., which is, next to Barre, the
largest granite center of New England.
At Quincy all the men engaged in the
manufacturing end of the industry went
on strike this morning. Another impor
tant granite cutting point in Massachu
setts that was closed tight was Rockport,
on Cape Ann.
In Vermont, Bethel and Hardwick were
the chief places involved in the disagree
ment. The Woodbury Granite Co., the
largest single concern, had not come to
an agreement with its employes. Many
granite workers in both of those places
bad been out of work for some time.
It is understood that the Hardwick
suspension applies merely to the plant of
the Woodbury Granite company.
DEATH WAS SUDDEN.
SURPLUS EQUALS CAPITAL.
Barre Savings Bank &. Trust Co. Stock
holders Get Good Report.
The Barre Savings Bank A Trust com
pany has just issued its 23-1 annual state
ment, showing the condition of its affairs
t the close of business on Feb. 29. The
bank has paid its regular dividend of
In the Voges there lias been great .eight per c-nt. to its stockholders anil
artillery activity in the region of Sen-! has earned ..iU" to its surplus fund.
one ami the Ban le Sapt To the et , making a total of $."st,iSlo.0il as a reserve
of Seppois, a counter attack by us drove j surplus, an amonut vhich is now equal
the enemy from some sections of trenches to its capital st'ick. The same board of
which lie had penetrated during tne director in Tve nuring ine coming
morning. " j year, and the offWr lk forward to an-
The Belgian official communication j otlnT year of prosperity in the businens
aav: jwhirh be hndl-d in Barre and
"Greater activity has hen played by j vicinity,
the artillery ervilly in the region of j
Dixmude. In the enire of the !tr-
tn-nn to trfrmn balloon fci'ir our
Prof. Fred J. Whitcher of South Ryegate
Died To-day.
South Ryegate, March I. This village
wa shocked this morning to learn of the
death of Prof. Fred J. Whitcher. who was
stopping at the home of bis grandmoth
er. Mrs. John R. McAllister and who was
conducting two very successful singing
schools, one in this village and the other
in Groton. Heart trouble is supposed to
have been' the direct cause of his death.
Mr. Whitcher n a native of New
bury, being the eldest son of Ahner J.
and Ella Whitcher. He ws 4S years old.
He had been in California for several
year but came home from there last
spring in poor health. He bad gained,
however, and had done considerable bus
iness in his profession. He leaves his
parents and one brother and one sister,
FUNERAL OF ROBERT GRAY.
Prediction is That There
Long Suspension.
The Quincy Mass., Ledger of last night
had the following summary of the gran
ite situation in Ouiney:
"The Italian members of the granite
cutters branch and the manufacturers
are strongly favoring a four year agree
ment, it is said, while the polishers and
another jiortion of the cutters want a
five year agreement.
"The four yaar agreement would ex
pire in 1920, the same year the Barre,
Vt. agreement expires.
"This fact is an argument against it
in the opinion of some of the cutters.
They say that the granite business would
lie demoralized for years to come should
both Quincy and Bane workers go on a
strike at the same time because of fail
ure to reach settlements with their re
spective associations.
"No such effect would follow, accord
ing to the Italian members of the local
branch. They say they arc committed
to short term agreements, however, that
the Italian people would like to see all
agreements between manufacturers and:
cutters throughout the country expire
on the same day so that if need be a I
mighty protest could be made. I
"It is to avoid such a possibility that'
the five year term is favored, according
to some members of the branch. I
There is a feeling among cutters to
day that the future will not be as quiet
as pictured a wee ago.
'We are going to have one of the
biggest strikes Quincy has ever seen,'
is the way one cutter viewed the situation.
Another states that the reason the
short term agreement is not favored is
that the leaders of the union believe a
nation-wide strike would disrupt the or
ganization.
SPORTSMEN IN BURLINGTON.
Quincy, Mass., March 1. Twenty-five
hundred employes in the Quincv granite
industry refused to continue work to-dav
liecause of the failure to reach nn agree
ment with the manufacturers in the mat
ter of a new wage schedule. The old
schedule expired last night.
The workmen involved are the granite
cutters, polishers and tool sharpeners.
Their refusal to work threw -out the
teamsters, machinists and apprentices,
making a total of 2,500.
The old wage schedule provided for
$3.7.5 per day and ran for three years.
The men asked a minimum of $4 for a
three or five-year agreement. ; It wag
stated that the workmen refused to ac
cept, a four-year agreement, because its
expiration would come at the same time
as that under which the Rarre, Vt., cut
ters are working.
The vote to go on strike was taken at
a meeting of all the branches here last
night.' A wage scale of SO cents an hour
and a working day of eight hours had
been agreed upon, but the men refused to
submit to a less term than five years, the
manufacturers desiring to terminate thi'
atrreenii'iit at the end of the fourth year
to coincide with the termination of the
agreement between the workers and man
ufacturers of Barre, Vt.
Both Bides seem determined to hold out.
The strike, if continued for any length of
time, will tie up all the granite work ill
Quincy, one of the city's largest indus
tries. Many of the manufacturers al
ready have accepted orders for Memorial
day work, which they will be unable to
fill if the strike continues long.
No Opinion on Voters' Eligibility.
wn prominent in public l;fe nrped the burned and a few day later a barn on i front br4e from their Hex-ring an I fell. No opinion
te-enTy i'r immed'STe military and(-i"Mp! rrin isrni a sr.ori .-ixm-e one m?o ine ea nppiw
Hal pr paredne. .!.wph II. Cboate, aaay a burned. An intetigntion pro- oth-r near CouJi-keqnc.
fknter mba-tador to Great Britaui, (-re- Juced no results apparently. were made fruner.
fa be-n handed ttown bv
I A Panne, tie (the Vermont Mipremc onirt a vet on the
The aercnauts eligibility of t.t-r at the spring election
Mania 7 va state rcfrnnlutut,
Was Held at 105 North Seminary Street
Tuesday Afternoon. !
Funeral services for Robert Gray, late- j
lv of Aberdeen, Scotland, who passed
aay at the home of his liaughtcr. Mr.
Jsme Sn of t'otlcr Corner.. Satur
day after a brief illnee were held at
the bon.e of another daughter. Mr. Peter
Gathered Under Auspices of Vermont
Fish. and Game League.
Burlington. March 1. Vermont sports
men gathered here yesterday afternoon
and evening to attend conferences pre
liminary to the third annual sportsmen's
convention under auspices of the Vermont
Fish and Game league.
Dunns the afternoon John W. Tit-
comb, state nVh and game commissioner,
addreed the state warden, and an at
torney answered question as to inter
preting the fish and game laws.
Rockport, Mass., .Msrvh 1. Granite
workers on ( ape Ann iiuniliering aliout
1.000, struck today for a new bill of
wages. The old bill expired last niht
and no new agreement had been reached
with the manufacturers either for its re
newal or for a new schedule.
Wvsterly, R. I.. March 1. A four year
agreement between manufacturers h in I
granitecutters. jiolislicrs and tool sharp
eners was signed to-day, making the
minimum wages $4 per dny.
FARMERS MEET MARCH 9.
Ix'ttiel. .March l. 1 he lalior Mjrreem
under which the cutters at the Wood
bury liranite company's sheds bad oper
ated for the lact four years expired last
night and in the absence ot any p-ply
from the company to tie demands made
three months ago, the few iiwn who had
lecn employed did not appear at the
stonesheds to-ila. lieneral Manager
Clifford of the company was out of town
lat evening and no word was forthcom
ing from the company.
The fact is. so far as known, that the
men bed- practically completed all the
work in sight, snd many rumors of a
large contract jii't ahead ) r not li-u
Miltantinted. A considerable niiniln r of
the cutter have found employment el'-
-nt
To Decide Whether There Will be
Washington County Farm Agent.
A m-etinr of the W ashington County 1 w here, some in other trade ti-mpora rih ,
Farmer' association w ill be held at How-j hile others are rctim;. . th - y
tirdon. o; North Seminary street Tue. land ball. Harre. .Man n :. ls-ginnin ai-i"c noi ..n,.-. , .1!B ,,.
day afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev. Edgar j 1 P- m., at which it i evic ted lhate.-k in the w inter season. Hily f, -Cropland,
pstor of the First Prebv- ; definite arrangement l m"de a . families have bit town, even of the nt.-n
terian church, wa the officiating clergy- to whether a c.unty agent will Is? se- who are working c1m-w here,
man. and tb hearer were as follow: cured or not thi spring. 1 horn Trad-'
3. Aleisnder. Janve Mora. J. Sl-ni. jr, of te O Begc rf Agriculture, I'nivrr-1 Ugtr.. Man-H 1. The 1.;I
Peter irihn. t-o-ge Mora and A. L- y f ermont, w i!l ! preent and w i:l ' granite utt-r were a! .ut t!.- morn
on. Interment ai made in Hope ceme- ad !re the meeting. It is important ing. .t! n tw i.-ce t h to n setttr-
that all farmers be present if possible. ii.tr t lil be rva hcL
