VOLUME- XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 1916. J~jf~3
GERMANS WOULD SINK
ARM[D M[RENTM[N
Yet Renews Piedges'Given
in Former Notcs
CLAIMS ArMED SHIPS
ARE NOT PEACEFUL
In Nof e to Isis Goern Imeli (Germainy
11i4.eeat s .\ssurances ('ontained in
Form er Notes bull ' laltriPes that Se.
e'ret Ilust ruellons hate been (:en
British Se masters.
Washington, Feb. 28.--Germany, in
a formal note presented by Count von
Bernstorif to Secretary lansing today,
reiterates assu rances regarding the
future conduct of submarine warfare
given in the Lusitania case, declaring
those assurances have not been modi
fied by the memorandum setting forth
its intention to treat armed merchant
men of the entente allies as auxiliary
ernisers after midnight tomorrow, and
attempts to justify the issuance of the
1lemorandum 1y Ipresenting evidence
and assert ions l'signed to prove that
the llriti:"h .noore"nnmen has Instructed
m(rchantmeniiI to uss tigt'1r armament
for purposes of attack In violation of
assurances given to the United States.
Later, it was said at the state de
i artnent. that while the United States
stood unaltrably for the right ofI a
merchan ship to carry guns for de
fense, it was not now and ever had
been contending that Americans could
travel with immunity on ships having
orders to act offensively. It was in
dicated that should the allegations of
Germany in regard to the confident
ial instructions claimed to have been
given to British sea captains be sus
tained, the fact would have an im
portant bearing upon this govern
ment's future attitude. It is felt on
high official quarters here that the
question of motive is the cardinal con
sideration in determining the differ
ence between defensive and offensive
armament.
The Important Evidence.
Copies of the socalled British in
structions, which were handed to Ai
bassador Gerard in Blerlin and which
are considered by Secretary Lansing
to be the all important element in the
situation as it stands at present, have
not yet arrived. Pending their receipt
and a subsequent decision regarding
the attitude of the I nited States, the
state department is prepared to con
sider any overt a(t committed by the
commanders of Germany and Austrian
submarines in the light of the facts.
It was authoritatively stated that the
department probably would not act
upon the case of an American who sus
tained injuries aboard a vessel whlich
it could be definitely established was
to be offensively used.
The state department makes a broad
distinction between resistance and of
fense. It holds t hat ai me'rchanit shilp
has a right to resist ca pture, hut not.
to act offensIvely, Of ('ours'e, it is ad
mlitted, a ve'sse'l loses all the Iimmuitjy
while ini the act of resist inig.
Authoriitative information obtained
here toniighit ini)4Lted( lhi; the liritishi
gov'~leret Pirobabuly woudIi (combalSt
allegations of Giermnany that 11iritIishi
ships a rimed ost ensiblly lo. defense are
ini ieality ar med for offen sive Puripios
es. It was said that liit iish mast ers
hadt~ not beetn lostru'icted to hun1 t for
submarines, that on the contrairy they
had been told to (10 everything possible
to avoidl the craft, and that only in
the event or a hostile submarine ap
proaching without warning near
enough to use bombs or torpedoes were
the skippers authorizedt to use their
guns.
No Im~mediate Danger.
All things considered, the state de
partment is lundersteod to feel that
the possibility is more or less remote
of diflcuilties airising in the near fu
ture as a result of the new German
andl Austrian plolley. In the first place
officials believe that commanders of
German and Austrian submarines wil
take particular care not to attack
without warning armed merchant ves
sels upon01 which there may be Ameri
cans. This belief is strengthened by
* the declaration in the German note
*received today which was acquiesced
in by Baron Zweidinek, charge of the
:Austrian embassy hero, that the or
*ders issued to the naval commanders
wore so formulated as to prevent the
destruction of enemy liners "on ac
3111S. ('II HIS''(PHIEII DEA D.
Wife of Dr. A. J. ('hrlstopher Died
Wednesday Afternoon After Linger
ing Illness,
\irs. Latra Dilal ('Iistolpher, wife of
Dr. A. .. ('iistopher, died at her home
oil West .\lalin street. \\ednesday af
Ie'noon fol lowing a long illness of
iuch suf fering and marked by beauti
iftl Spirit of ('hri tian ft(' itude. The
funeral services were hield Thursday
afternoon at the l''rst It aptist chulrhel,
beinsg conducted by her pastor, Rev.
Al. L.. Lawson. 'hie intertent. followed
itmnediately afterwards at the laan
retnsi ('Cmetry, where a nlmerous
body of sorrowing friends and rela
tives gathered. Six nephews acted as
active pall bearers, as follows: A. Dial
Gray, 11. ('oke Gray, .\lbert Gray, Cecil
Gray, Albert !)ial and HIastings Dial.
The following were honorary pall
bearers: Messrs C. 1, (lobo, .1. C. Ow
ings, E. 1'. Minter, J. C. Shell, .J. F.
Tolbert, ('. II. Roper, 1)r. L. S. Fuller,
Col 11. Y. Simpson, Dr. W. ). F'ergu
sonl, J. W. Todd, M. .1. Owings and Ii.
I1. Kennedy.
Mi's. ('Iiristoplier was a datughter of
the late ('ol. Albert Dial, for many
years a leading citizen of the county,
and was niarried to Dr. Christopher
twenty-live years ago. She was for
many years a tiember of the Ilaptist
church anid took a great deal of inter
est In its work. In the church societies
she was particularly active and will
be missed in those circles.
.ilrs. Christopher is survived by her
husband and adopted child, Laura
Elmily Dial, and the following brothers
and sisters: Mrs. I. L. Gray, Gray
ou't; Mrs. John I). W. Watts, ''rltity
Ridge; N. B. Dial and Dr. W. II. Dial,
Laurens; J. Conway Dial, Cross 11111.
count of their armament unless such
armament is proved."
Reiterates Assurances.
The note at the outset reiterates the
previous pledges, which were given
on September 1 and October 5 of last
year, for the safety of unresisting lin
ers and then goes on to say the Ger
man government does not believe
those assurances have been modified
by the new tnemorandim.
Durin' the negotiations over the
Lusitania, It. says, no mention was
made of armed tmerchanItmen, and
that the ('nited States inl one or its
notes on the L~usitatnia mentioned "tn
arm'ied tile''haitimen."
Attention then is called to the as
surances previosuly given in whicli it
was stated that liners will not be sunk
without. warning, providing they do
not offer resistance, Attention also is
called to the statemeit of the Ameri
'an government in its notice to port
authorities that he presence of arma
ment oti board a merchant vessel
rentes the presumi pttoti that the ves
sel is armed for offense.
It. is stated that a submarine com
mander can not. be expected to warn
an enemy merchantnant which has a
i'lght to tire on the subm arinie which
warns it, anid the Gertman government
sets op the contetion that eqiuimett
andl attetmpt to r'eist a warnIng glveni
byu a subminti (fo not comle witin
the dolitioti of dlefnsIve itarmament.
Jiased ontt~ ('rgs.
Thle tnote thlen 5(ets fothi t hat thle
Germ'nan Movrn'tttenit idi tnot lssute its
now instrictiont to sitbmar'ino com
tmaindet's util aftert it. had come itnto
liossessioni of confitdetIial inlstrtuctions
by thle Dnrltish govern menit to thle
connianders of'Dtrltish mer'chanttmen.
'It ls deniedi thinIat armed Brttish mer'
chant shilps of atny dlescr'iptionl at'e
peaceful tr'adersx and it is declared that
the armament on board all of thenm
Is to be utsedl especially for purposes
of attack.
The note makes it clear that Ger
nmany believes its new InstructIons to
sutbtmarine commanders are in ae
cor'd with the viewpoint expressed by
the United States In Its memorandum
prtoposing ft mlodus vlvendhi to the en
tente allies fotr the disarmament of
merchant ships.
Woul d Wolco me A greceent.
Thle efots~ of' the Uinited States to
havo beligerents agr'ee to a nmodits
vivendll, which would cause all metr
chant ships to be0 disarmedi, it is de
clared. are welcomed by Glermany.
Then follows a declatation that (Ger
many will no longer allow its subma
rines to ho made the object of attacks
in violation of the principles of in
ternational law and -theroforo the
new instructions will not be postponed
or modified.
CAU
Wi th a si'ltage of1 Ships
sl 'e :withl It-, l~i~iig l
1 i(n st irreil (1ve(r preiI redni(ss
iill >r f)1 \ l. 1' tih I ( w r' "4 2ll1
I di I i ii- l' I il is : It I 1al t
Let 4'v1'1'.vi'iit' 1.'l111'111'r i1fn
i.' 1 ulsi''. l'i lly j4 10' d41 I'41. . i111
ies f r lhims ll'. is nii y 111. anij I
1 ( iii (I l l e vas1 I ';I.) i 1 -t)(1' 1 l l,'
;11iii ( '": II :1 1 .1 I4 ;+u hot11i'~ (
as l' f l'i1.11'I " liiust lhe tl
wiBlE is.
Six-("enlt 1"o)t~tn this fall1 w\
Stales. Low ri'e Follows ove
the (1Ioy. I igh prices anil i
prove whlat volulltitll' retlitt'tii
i litrl (I ilH'lelos' 11t a l 'rtC e o'
il t !grea t loss to loltliaeeril
t ic llierS, illol w ill siil seliu l'e
('foNm''o:. 1-:N('E-: ( aoCOT
l' It E:111( TS '0i CO'O-:R , i I:.I,
I1E IN THE'- RA.\E
itercef inair Phe iient Story fromo fo.
witlia - 11 h e Se ertr Other ('an
dthile for the Go elraceorshi gv.
Ano iantresting political story to the
.ffec that solicitor Lobert A. Cooper
will be one of several candidates in
the race for raovernor this stammer
was sent out from *Columibia several
days ago. Iot is stated that lion. W. A.
Stuckey, of eishopville, is seriously
considering making the race and that
\lr. Cooper is almost sure to run since
former Gov. Blease has announced.
In part the story follows:
That h ie will positively announce
within the near future whether or
not he will be in the race for gover
nor and opposing those planks in the
platform of \1r. Cole L. lease which
advocate reduction of the passenger
rates on railroads to two cents and
reducing the rates of interest was
stated this morning by the lion. W. '.
Stuckey over the long distance
telephone from his home at Bishop
ville. At the same ltme .\lr. Stuckey
emphatically and positively denied
the iumlor that he w ould run for
I4iuteliant ovenor on a ticket with
.\r. B lease.
"l'ndr no circumstances will I
take second place on any man's
ticket," Said .\lr. sleekey and added,
that. Is anoceeIllneaet som0e m0ohs '.
t,11 that oe wiovld not 111 for Laieu
tenangt governo r stands. lie declared
ntin umistakable language that he
will not he the tail of any man's kite.
c hisagteeing with two of the lead
Ing planks in the platform of \ir.
lilease was expressed by .\r. Stuckey.
Ile said he and the farmers favored
legitimate cororaons and were o
them toand one whalcinsto twoA
centoper ofmai'ilelandtha Thoase wo
hae~areinfavo the ostutinae egia
taonfo th Miarooer, said nor. Sukeyo
gover'nor' fiioredl euacin nssentr
Iats etohr tot iewllo andnreuce.o
'ro te lgrvie of Mr.noerlsto sxmp
Te fa that ud rforngledners
oIf ctn ondr iles atione ae taken
tkean ob f Mris.pvileas antd faor
ovenowr eGooreto Te ene
bouht forwaefr governor indi-rai
atdeverytone ivesfact it i oe st
ascrta that eratorh leaders feil
Te tve acennouncement fom
Coope of awaiten will duo nToerwo
have watched the sitinaecr
TION!
to lItuve ()III* ofr nton to 'oreiLi
le (1114 I I111 \\. ; \ ill illhe N a
'or v\ lll hI l : with t hte htlly
14' Ia i n-r'' I4 I4(" II lw1 sai t 11 1t'
I'o l i"'r the' .4. nnuliv11 as well.!
hlis li\t 11!4 !tie . i :\ val l'. a p1'!,
('11 11 the <ifl'r-" het wVeen \(' nt1
al anl1 saft livil' for all as well
- 11141' if pI'4ospel'ity is to bIlride
0111(1 Siell tlisaste'r inl the e14t 14411
-sui ply as cert'lainly as the nighl
)erity Ive' the So tilh this year
I Of 4'(t14o11 JI rerlage (oes. .\ iy
last year11 is going to 'etIllt
tionl oitteters, mlerehanlts, nini
(t1 lllllivl lusiness an1 lproI'es
l'ON I'\I' - It\ N KI -', .
.M IS. .. 11. TW,1' I I T ( '4l A :1.4I .'s
('ONDITION l'NClI.NM-:11
Wr's Seriously" Iinred in .\utombile(
i'assengter Train ('olision.
The' condition of rs.l. A. II. 'Iwilhell
who was severely injured Saturday
morning when her limousine was
wrecked by a Southern railway train
at Spartanburg, remained unchanged
yesterday, according to the Spartan
bhrg Herald. It will probably be sev
eral (lays yet before a statement can
be made as to the outcome of her in
Juries. She has been unconscious
practicaqlly all the time since the acci
dent.
The news of the accident in which
Mrs. Twitchell and her chauffeur were
seriously inju red caused numerous
anxious influ1res here as Mrs. Twit
choll, as Miss lanie Rivers, before her
marriage was a resident of this city
where she lived with her mother.
A complete account of the accident
as taken from The Spartanhurg Iler
aid will be found on 'age 7 of this pa
per.
Play at Ora.
h'llere will Ie a play at the Ora
school house Ieriday night, Ma rli ,rd,
given by the chihren of thie, liddles
O!d lield schooll. A small admission
fet' will be charged. The public is in
vitt. d to attend. The play is expected
to ie vely entertaining.
.IX 11-N INITI.\'I'E1.
itoyal .reh 31asons lieId Special .ICet
iit 11n Mdiay tol (' onfer lDegrees.
.\t a call Ileeting of the oyal \rch
.\bIsonis held( .\lndlay night in thie .\la
5ent(ed andi~ iniitiatedl inito the dlegree of!
the. degree were'( as follows: Iter. L-: .
Iaightlfoot of' ('linton,. .\lessrs IP. I-: Hry
siln ofi ~\Oodruff, . \' . t'uner of
Mouintville, 1l. TI. To4rb4, ltobert lI. Iop
er and J1. S. .\letrary.. 11his siecial
S4Si4In was 0on oft I le mOOSt imprel.
siv'e bel this year anid niotwithstand
lng the inlemen1lC1y of the weat her a
large crowd attend~edl. The Ceremni es
were lierformlied by thle local otileer's
toget her withI Grand lIIigh Priest
George Blrya n and Mr. G. C. I lendlerson
of Greenville,
Meeting of IK. of P~.
A meeting of Laurens lodige No, 43,
K. of P., will be held Monday night,
March 6th. Work will be in the thiirdl
degree. The newv projecting lantern
will be used for the flrst time in lie
degree wor'k, so this is expleted to
attriact a large number (If Knights.
Governor MannIng will run for' re
e'liVletiniami oiileni (lcils iln Co
lumibia would not he surp'lrisedl at oth-i
er interesting developments.
One rumor hiere is thant ('ertain in
te-rests in Washhiigton biro urging
Congressman J1. F. flyrnes of the sec
od congressional district to run foi
governor. ThIs rep~ort has gainer
wide eirculation and in'cluides anmon;
other reports that the Sout'h Caroline
delegation are nursing the ,Byrne:
hanm.
CITY'S CHARTED
Was Granted in December 1
Years. Expired Decomb
Election.
Acordint to autthori;iti, in14I ,
lion the" chart('r '' 110. ('it, 41f I.au)ren..
lranted ug(i(ert a lvspia'of gt e ittis I)
('(Lher 2 rd, 1 : d to r n ( I otItr
Iwnty-tite e t atlpirliatilled e r
"ard. I1 ., and inc t l :aII tii f tlt'
it , i h 'n WV ilhaoit a c harI t(:'. T lte 1e
fore14 , the( :wls, of the c"ity ()hu l s~c ;! 1in1c,"
Ihait lilne have b('e ,n, c xcIte pt in a liinit
ed way, without anhortity,
Ilaving been')t advised of the LI nusuaI(l
situation, It repres ntativ of ase .\d
vertiser called on .\ayor 111abb1 ye.
(trday afternoon. The matlyyor was al
ready inl possession of some informia
tion on the subjert and had asked the
eily attorety, t . E' . tB, bb, Esq., for an
opinion. The .\ayor, accomlpanlied by
The A tdvertistr's representative. visit-1
rd the city attorney who went thor
ouglhly into the situation and gave it
as his opinion that the city was with
out a eh a tor. 'T'e only <it stin t to
be looked pl bieing, of course', whthl
it or not any getin ral sl tatute xistefd
which w\ould automa;Iileal!y extenld the"
olocrations of the' 11 hate r.
.\ir. I .EIbIbb. (it attorney, when
asked as to lti( .atugs of the city ;it
fairs, tplied that thil city would still
have a I 'a"ttsho govornI 1ent ilth the
lt1irs having linited p owet 1 rs. TLw
city treasurer is still enpowtred t
receive hills du the city and to ent('t
the daily obligations of the city with
the funds In hand. 'The polic~e arm of
REVIVAL SElRVICES TO
H3EG.IN NEXT St'NDAYt
Bishop John C. Kilgo to Lead In er.
Ylees at the First Mecthodist Church.
As previously announced In the p~ul-I
pits and newspaapers, special revival
services will be held in the First .\eth
odist. Church of this city beginning next
Sunday morning. B1ishop) John) C. Kil
go, of Nortlh Carolina, will lead in the
services and will he assisted by tho
pastor, iev. .1. H. T. Major. 'I'll man A.
Shealey, a wdely known and successful
evangelistic singer, will conduct. the
music' for the iteetItig.
Hev. J. H. T. .\ajor stated yester
lay that tihe morning service Sunday
would he a service for children and
that It would preach it Ihat time. Stin
day evening Hilshop Kilgo will preach
his first sermon and will continue to
pre'ach1 Iwice daily until the ('lose of
the servtices. Thell present plans are
for the mio1ning servicesi to begina at
to o'clock and the evening se'vi(es lt
7:::1 o'clock. .\r. .\ajor asked that a
special invitation be extended to all
1th' ileople of thie city to attend the
services, irrespective of denomiiation.
The annio1In(eenient of IHishopl Kilgo's
(o'in0 lg to l.at Irels was re((eived with
a great deal of plea're, as he is a na
tive' of tils (Outly and has hoists of
frt insi and ' admir s the ree. lf In adi
Itien t o thes Mt fu0el st hat te srv i
are toe onduicIaltd wiby onlI~eI'o promi-(
nennyin hr fairseso arous unusu1at
intres In the iftenting. hchtm
11 tTWol I-:Xn('l-: . T Mc-lt l( t.:'
'hrych I-:xtesaione Ky.talrea of theh
di( rse t'uc (l I'e i onteda.iIl'
Tena l ine Wte interest.t fof thurah
Coxtnsi'twork ino thels (4reens Dit
sesionci ale of the .\tethodistchrhwson
dludic taed tnigh wih afi i masteu and
DiennyTeiirst ('oseg n pahed atte
2:30sithater noo(hiliein a wichtimeln
11( is Den andeU Dr. W.s li.tMc~ur
ry of LostvatenKy., aecrencry of the
(inlaeiralwysardo ChieExtesio,
taddrened hercongreatn aReprte
Iet aives anere preefrothe worayfo
ruit atd~ Clinon. aefre thel apre-o
ci reaceorebtras
t HAS EXPIRED
890 to Run for Twenty.Five
er 23rd. Can be Renewed by
l" I I I" j ' 1 1v. ui w < : V n
r i me itly. ! h r 1:l'n
*")!t Ili( ('4 1I li.~ "u t :lam ii~ . i l
41 1i f .-, 'IY ~l Ii 10144b' (1 (1 411.'11
(':'. 1.; 1111 . ' it '1h4t 1' I 'ri : -)
1 1 141 . 1 I \ '. Cit i t I 1414L 7 ! 1 .I 11 44)
h( ei I";(\1 l I r IIl'ro a y (44( 4 'aIvho
1 :1"il.-tulitlligu t tt (arn: i ii of Avu -
ha's hl..41 114 ur"l(1. T 1 )1 ( I I: m on -
fre' a of e I(ty. it i 1111ndesrod 1 ). aro
not 4f r(4'd 41b;111(" 4l 4 x4i aIo 4 of tho
( lo w luton tl- ritk' will be wtIithout
a harter will dp'nd largeIy .1pol
h.ow 5(44) Ioo 441he eo1l (11n (m4444' to anl
understanding as to their des'Iires. A
Oli on tusl be presenter to thel' S'ee
retary of state signed by' at least lift}y
free holders o h141' area desiring to ho
illcorporated. This 110lion nul t seit.
forth till' bounds of till- )rtyoposlt e l city,
lhe artie s umh-r whicb it dedosire to
o1p1 ra ht,. 1 e o ie s dlesi r a . n1. i fact,
ve. thin lionarily t fortb ikn
u n f a 'ling oni. M ion 11 r A. 1 ol
v.~r I'lac it s Otlshle( I lie i:.jnorp ot
(111 i ied uho uaill afenoon of .(r is
Iration ;1(1 041r .1 h-r the- eh l( i.)n th uclh
alvlita erlant whlnes 1 inast a wear
Lion. TIhn the lion onl th Wee -' neo
of 4he chart .e 4n for hed4 ies -of to
till tl. Itious positions are he'-i at
the saete. Only ualified ehf ors
are allowed to vote.
W. 11. lAMILTON I) EAI1).
well Known Vonng Farmer 1.lving
Just Outside the incorporate ingits
lUied ,Monday.
W. I1. Hamilton, a well known
young farmer living on i111. . A. Coo
per's place just outside the incorporate
limits, died Monday afternoon of p~neu
monia after an ilIness of just a week,
tie was in the city only a week befor ;
le died and gave no evidences of ill
health. lie b1eenme ill Monday night
and sank rapidly.
The funeral services were hold at
Union Church yesterday afternoon. he
In in charge of the lasons, he ling
a aelmber of the rW'aterloo lodge. Ag
large n'ner of i leotle attinged Ith
east rites.
lr. laniton was a son of .\r. lohn
lanilton, of the Iriendshi cnove
ity. Soae y las a:obe maried 'ar .\ss
Pinson, daug hter of .\Ir. \\ade Plisonl
and sthe. eif hree chiren, stheas.
himt.
.\'r. ilamilton was a very po u lae
young yea and his untiely death
has cae d :. ie h sof ro '1.
Tl urning to lf d Products.
.\r. U1. A. Sullivan, who has been
traveling in the holl Weevil sections of
Aolabarsa and aississippi, returned to
day,' ith wh1 t the sele f t..,
setnd the doeing tol potet tom
tends.o The ravagies o iahes in
harod to ted howevil, ey have no
