"$ "
a a
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
NIGHT
EXTRA
PRICE OM CENT
H?J
EXTRA
tc:
gjg, n,-yo. 200
PHILADELPHIA, TILtTKSDAY, MAY 4, 1010.
Cotfmaitt, 1010, Bt THE Pernio Lime Compasi.
igsJJUGHUSETTS SENDS OFFICIALS AND MILITARY MEN TO TAKE PART IN PREPAREDNESS MEETING
QUICK NEWS
wl, mm - tw
f wony
lf -
t
In the group from left to rtaht arc members of the Ancient and Honorable Artillery, of Boston, in the persons of Capt James D. Coatly, Adjt. Gen. Gcorpe Ii Washburn, Licuts.
Charles G. Kcmblc and William N. McKcnna, A. J Drexel Diddle, City Statistician E. J. Cattell, Governor Samuel W. McCnll, of Massachusetts; Mayor James W. Curley. of Boston;
Capt. Harvey Hamilton and, on the extreme right, Receiver of taxes W. Freeland Kendrick. The, visitors will atUnd the meeting tonight in the Metropolitan Opera House.
MAYOR ASKS
i
TAYLOR'S AID;
M WORK ON
Breaks Precedent, Taking
ftice From Ex-Director,
K' Ignoring Twining
ORDERS
DIRT TO FLY
Developments in
Big Day for Transit
r
tA. Merritt Taylor, former Tran
tit director, issues warning that
"obstructionists arc planning to dc
tfeat $67,100,000 loan on May 10.
L'M-vor smith indorses Taylor's
"warning and declares that fac
tional politics will not bo permitted
to interfere with loan.
Mayor, breaking all precedents,
'Amnions Mr. Taylor to his office
for "conference on loan fight and on
irestunptlon of work under City
JHalh
His own Director of Transit,
Twining, not present at conference.
FoUoring conference, Mayor an
nounces that work on the Broad
jtreet .'subway and island station
wiU be (resumed tomorrow under
$"H accounts" item in the con
tract with the Keystone State Con
tihigtlon Company. ,
IPresident Louchheim, of the
Keystone concern, announces that
tt'erangements are satisfactory
iohis company and work will be
started immediately.
Jfkyor Smith, sweeping aside all precc
atsModay requested A. Merritt Taylor,
inslt director In tho cabinet of ex-Mayor
anktnburg, to call upon him In his office
( advice as to how work could best be
siimed on the Broad street subway
der City Hall, and to discuss plans for
clty.wlde fight for the passage of the
7,100.000 transit and port loan bill at
i polls on May 16.
It was the first time In the city's history
it a Mayor had Ignored hla own Director
1 gone to the Director of a predecessor
office for advice. The direct result of
conference was an order from the
lyor to the Keystone State Construction
mpany to resumo work on the Broad
eet tube at once.
The Mayor and former Director Taylor
re In private conference for a half
ur. Later Jerome H. Louchheim, pres
et of, the Keystone Company, and
nator McNIchoI. head of hte concern,
re called In. Neither Transit Director
fining or any of the. other members of
J(Mayor's Cabinet -were present.
The conference with Mr. Taylor followed
1. publication this morning of a state
nt from the former Transit Director ap
June for support of the transit loan
1 at the polls and warning that obstruo
nlats are threatening to kill tho loan
1 hold up rapid tianslt,
TIRED OP BL'ING THE COAT.
Before Mr, Taylor arrived In City Hall.
siSIayor, In the course of an Interview.
Im 1 heart" indorsement to the appeal.
8 declared he would do all in his power
ep factional politics from injuring
yoan.
miP tld of lielnc the goat for theie
f '"" that are flghtlne", that
JflTlnr pt each other's throaU." the
' Mid,
ii0?,1"8 ,he conference with the
S-Vf- Taylor Issued a formal state
rlr ln"cated that the work un
rtSy.l lIa" lvUl be resumed promptly
fiSft. rforce accounts" Item in the
Rj.Sr&SJ"10 w?h the Keystone State
rtSSrSr mpany. Although the loan
vi?it d;c,14!Se4 at the conference, Mr. '
S2J T."1 8ay wnat Program was
DTSutVor ,no whirlwind campaign
conducq by the Mayor and himself,
RAFTER TUB finsPEtiEWP
5hiftlen,ent from Wr- Taylor follows;
WARNING TO VOTERS !
THOSE interests which are opposed to rapid transit devel
opment, coupled with free transfers, .and the elimination
of the three-cent exchange tickets are thoroughly organ
ized. Their agents and political allies are working in every
fward to lead you to vote against the Transit Loan at the
election on May 16.
As a former public servant, with your best interests at
heart, I cannot remain silent in this emergency.
N As the author of and sponsor for the "Taylor Plan" of
transit development, with free transfers and the elimination
of the exchange tickets, I accept the challenge and, with the
aid of the people of Philadelphia and of the great newspapers
interested in the city's welfare, I shall wage a relentless non
partisan fight for the Transit Loan from now until election
day. The interests of both the City of Philadelphia and of the
citizens who have supported me successfully in every fight
which I have waged for them as Transit Commissioner and as
Director of the Department of City Transit are in peril.
The voters of Philadelphia decreed by a vote of nearly
ten to one at the election held in April, 1915, that the city shall
proceed with transit development. They voted six million
dollars toward that purpose.
The carefully formulated plan of the obstructionists,
who have only their own selfish interests to serve, and who
care nothing about your welfare or the welfare of the city,
is to create a feeling of uncertainty and distrust throughout
the city which will lead the people to vote against the Transit
Loan, and to thus decree that the elevated railway and subway
lines, already partly constructed, shall lie idle ; that the present
overcrowding of surface cars during the rush hours shall be
continued ; that the illegal and discriminatory exchange tickets
shail be maintained and paid for by the street car riders, and
that the passengers shall be compelled to continue wasting
their time in traveling long distances between the various
sections of the city in street cars. THIS PLAN OF THE
OBSTRUCTIONISTS MUST BE SCOTCHED.
This city's proper development and the welfare of the
citizens require a modern high-speed transit machine, con
sisting of subways and elevated railways operated in con
junction with the existing surface lines which will enable any
passenger to board a surface car near his front door, ride to
the nearest station on the high-speed system, transfer free to
any point on the high-speed system, and to again transfer free
upon leaving the high-speed system on a surface car to destina
tion, all for one five-cent fare. That is what the people are
going to get by voting for the Transit Loan.
I shall prepare a series of articles, a different article
will be published every afternoon next week, which will keep
you fully informed and show the benefits which rapid transit
will bring to each separate section of Philadelphia.
I ask all of the great newspapers which are interested
in the welfare of Philadelphia and in the welfare of the
people to co-operate with me in the relentless fight which I
shall wage for the adoption of the Transit Loan by giving
broad publicity to these articles.
I ask every voter and the members of every organization
in Philadelphia which has influence with voters to co-operate
with me by reading these articles, by arousing public senti
ment, and by delivering a last and crushing blow to their
enemies by voting for the Transit Loan on May 1G.
This is the only way to secure the construction of the
Continued ou Pose Three, Column Four
E I-OST ANU FOUND
aMMThSJi' "S""1?,5' fttrnouir iohir bar
tkf t seiTVeoirf A1 oa af
REVOLUTIONISTS SET
MOSCOW IN FLAMES
Workmen Among Insurrection
ists Explode Czar's Mili
tary Oil Stores
fi!rm .t,request bf the Mayor, I called
Iiwn v . morning and ho Informed
W-(he was anxious to have work
2dfLV,e.CUr Ha" sect'n 'he
SSKu-?. subway- He told me that
KmJ ,toe4 t0 order 'he extra work
8fS? V.1 the for ?nt under
a fi,"11 existing contract rather
leTifi"?",8 "ew blU3 " ch extra
ttt''?.aslted me what my views were
"? "UDject. -
W'0 mm that I believed the only
(.' fojl?Td a re Nine, Column Two
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
W PhilnJ.ll.i ....J ....:.:..
'tlu eo,,X i t.u'"V. Y'Whw doubled his lists anu; KnocKea ms aaugn.
4.LH v tonght; Friday fair Ufer to the floor with, a hook to the jaw.
i".,J "'""WUtO WIUU3, 711031(1
$r deiaih see page i5.
BERLIN', May i. Russian revolu
tionists have started a great fire In Mos
cow, which spread to administrative
buildings and Is still raging, according to
Stockholm dlspJtchea today.
Revolutionary workmen exploded kero
sene and benzine tanks belonging to the
Government, destroying 6000 tons within
a few 'seconds. The blaze speedily com
municated to other Buildings.
FATHER ATTACKS DAUGHTER
hFells Her With Blow, Brother to the.
Rescue
inhn Oi.lnn. both drunk and calm,
doubled his fists and, knocked his daugh-
Her brother rushed to the rescue. The
ni,n,iui, nn thn floor Increased to two and
dereasd when Margaret arose and broke
a milk bottle on the head of the elder
Qulnn Cups and saucers from the hand
of the son followed, with the result that
Qulnn stayed from side to side and fell
to the floor. .......
All of which was explained before
Judge Barratt Jn the Quarter Sessions
Court today. Qulnn adding that he
thought he was "boss." He was placed
under 1500 fcood to keep the peace tor on
year. i
BAY STATE LEADERS
BOOM DEFENSE RALLY
Mayor Curley, Governor Mc
Call and Ancient and Honor
ablea in Tonight's Fete
Substituting the officers off the Ancient
and Honorable Artillery Company for
Boston's "Royal Rooters" as a bodyguard,
James M. Curley, Mayor of the New, Eng
land metropolis, is in Philadelphia today
Wth Mayor Curley is Samuel W. McCall,
Governor of Massachusetts.
On his last visit. Mayor Curley and hla
escort took hack a world's series cham
pionship. Today he Usited the Navy
Yard, at League Island, and absorbed
Philadelphia ideals of "preparedness.'
Mayor Curley and Governor McCall,
with Adjutant General George II, Wash,
burn and Captain Harvey Hamilton, of
the Governor':) staff, arrived at Broad
Street Station from Boston at 11:15
o'clock. Automobiles were waiting and
whisked the visitors to the Hotel Adcl.
phla. Luncheon was served, after which
the trip to the Navy Yard was made.
, GREETED AT .LEAGUE ISLAND.
Commandatit Russell greeted the dis
tinguished visitors at League .Island. The
buildings used for barracks and construc
tion work were Inspected. The Governor,
Mayor and their escort went aboard the
warships, where the details of naval pre
paredoeaa wfre explained to them. A
special drill of the sailors and marine
at the yard Increased their acquaintance
with military efficiency, and both ex-
Csatlaaed oa Eaj;o Twu. Column 6U
GERARD TO GET
KAISER'S U-BOAT
ANSWER TODAY
Lansing Announces Ger
man Chancellery's Prom
ise of Delivery
CONTENTS KEPT SECRET
WASHINGTON. May 4.
Secretary of State Lansing stated to
day he has been ntnclally advised by Am
bassador Gerard that tho German Foreign
OJIlee has promised to hand him some
time today the reply to the American sub
marine ultimatum of April 18.
Tho Secretary further stated that tho
notification from tho Ambassador con
tained no Intimation regarding thp char
acter of the reply.
Hy tomorrow the Stale Department ex
pects to know just what Ambassador
Gerard vnn told by Kaiser Wllhelin and
what Ambassador Gerard told tho Kaiser
In their (-inference at the Germany army
field headquarters concerning America's
submarine demands.
IlKPLY HURE RY WH1CK-END.
This report, now on the way, Mr. Gerard
cabled today, should make clear all tho
elements that enter Into the German ro
ply. Tho reply Itself is expected Satur
day. Mr. Gerard's messages, telling his report
was on tho way and that the reply ltslf
probably soon would bo, furnished tho
only now light on tho situation to tho
Administration aside from' further press
comments sent. The comments, which, It
Is believed, took Into account tho sessions
between the Kaiser and tho Ambassador
did not nrouso optimism among United
States ofllclnl.s who saw them. There Is
reason to believe thoy were unfavorable
to a settlement of tho submarino Issue on
America's terms.
One Administration official said, how
ever, there was no certainty the press
vlows forwarded icllect the German olfl
clal view.
The Urst messago from Ambassador
Gerard In nearly n week reached the
State Department this forenoon, and re
ported a quantity of press comment In
cluded In this was one aitlcle. In which It
was said that responsibility for any hieak
In relations would be on President Wilson.
As to the reply's probable contents, one
of two things Is expected In ofllclaldom:
First. Direct compliance with the
American demands.
Second. An evasion of the direct Issue.
By this Is meant a temporizing note, rais
ing Issues to bo negotiated by Ambassador
Bernstoiff while Indicating that the sub
marine methods to which the United States
objects, actually have been stopped for
tho present.
The time taken In framing the reply
FORMER AMERICAN
ENVOY ARRESTED
IN IRISH REVOLT
James M. Sullivan, Min
ister to Santo Domingo,
Taken to .London
W A S BRYAN PROTEGE
pIIk" Mm? f
Continued on I'ase Seventeen, Column Two
JAMES M. SULLIVAN
Former United States Minister
to Snnto DominRO, who has been
arrested in Dublin in connection
with the Sinn Fein uprising.
LONDON. May I James M Sulllum.
former United States Minister to Santo
Domingo, has been irreated In Dublin
in connection with tho Sinn Foln upris
ing, It was announced today at tho United
States Embassy.
Sullivan has been brought to London,
and probably will bo placed on trial
here.
Sullivan was formerly a resident of
New York, whero he practiced law.
American Ambassador Pago today made
Inquiries In the Foreign Olllce concerning
Sullivan's arrest.
Sullivan has been brought to England,
Mr. Page asked what charge has been
Cnnllnurd on Pace Tho, Cnliimn l'our
NEW CAR LINE ALMOST
SURE FOR 56TH STREET;
P. R.T. HAS FIRST CALL
TRAINER CALLS ON
MAYOR TO DISMISS
DIRECTOR WILSON
Councils' Committee Reports ! Demand for Resignation Fol-
Bill Favorably to Lot Pri
vate Capital Build It if
Company Refuses
WILL COST 300,000
An ordinance giving the Philadelphia
Rapid Transit Company 90 days to decide
whether it will build a double-track trol
ley line In 56th street between Lancaster
and Elmwood avenues, with the alterna.
tlve that private capital will build the
line If the transit company declines was
reported favorably In Councils today from
the Committee on Street Railways.
The ordinance was approved by the
committee following a public hearing held
In the Finance Committee room. Resi
dents of West Philadelphia and a deten
tion from the Allied Business Men's As
sociation appeared nUthe hearing, and
explained the need forhe line.
John M. McGarvey, the principil
speaker, told the councllmen that 3iilllclent
money has been pledged by individuals to
Incorporate as the 56th Street Passenger
Railroad Company and buld the line.
should tho Philadelphia Rapid Transit fall
to take advantage of their 90-day option.
The line will then bo leased to the transit
company as the line on 52d street Is now
leased. The cost will be about (300,000.
FaFvorable action upon the ordinance
Is expected at the meeting of Councils
In two weeks.
Whether or not the United Business
Men's Association will be asked to submit
to Councils the names of six men desir
able for membership on the Board of
Directors of the Philadelphia Rapid Tran
sit Company will bev decided today by the
fate of u resolution 'carrying the sugges
tion. Thfr resolution characterized by
President I.tmnon, of Select Council, as
"revplutlonary," passed the Select branch
two weeks qo by a close vote, and, will
likely meet opposition In Common at to
day's session.
The plan, to have the United Business
Men suggest names is merely for the
guidance, of Councils and to assist the
members ui making choice of proper men.
Continued en Fso Two. Column Jfeuc
lows Executive's Announce
ment That Police Must
Keep Out of Politics
VARE DEFIES OLD ALLY
A demand on Mayor Smith for the
resignation of Director of Public Safety
Wilson by Select Councilman Harry J.
Trainer, of tho 3d Ward, the defiance of
State Senator Udwln H. Vare to Mr.
Trainer's threat to have certain ballot
boxes opened, and an emphatic declara
tion by tho Mayor that the police and
officeholders must stay out of politics
tifupa tt-i)fiH rlnmlniMniv itai alnnmonto In
I'tho city's political situation today.
Mr. Trainers demand for Director Wil
son's resignation was emphasized with
the assertion that if the Mayor wishes to
act in good faith he would be compelled
to ask for the resignation.
"I do not care what Mr. Trainer savs,"
said the Mayor, In reply to. the dem.id.
"Director Wilson Is an honest and capable
man."
Mr. Trainer, who Is a former Vare
leader, now aligned with the Penrose-Mc-Nlchot
forces, made his demand while
commenting on the Mayor's statement
earlier In the day that he would dlvorae
the police and officeholders from politics.
VARK DBFIKS TRAINER.
Senator Vare's defiance came as a re
sult of Mr. Trainer's declaration that he
would take legal btep to open ballot
boxes to substantiate charges of election
frauds In South 1'hlladulpffla ward.
"Tialner ought to begin right now In
opening ballot boxew in the division of his
brother 'Joe. who called the election off,
although he was not an election official."
said Senator Vare.
The Senator's statement was quickly
replied to by Joseph C. Trainer, the Se
lect Councilman's brother, who said lie
would "go the limit" to prove there were
no invalidated ballots la his division.
The Mayor tn the midst of the storm,
reiterated his declaration that the police
Coatlaneii oa I'axs Two. Column Iw
DISSOLUTION OF PENNSYLVANIA STEEL RATIFIED
Stocliholrieis of the J?eniinylvniila Steel Company of New Jersey
nt n special meeting in Ciuntlcn today ratified the director,' rcnoiu
lioli foi' tlio diftbolutlon of the company In cnrrylug out tho snls at
tho piopeitios to tho Bethlehem Stect Cot point ion. trite number of
shrtics of lit of erred slock voted tn favor vn& 100,4.11 sharps out of
2fj5i023 oUtBtrmdhig. while 451 wpft? voted ngatnst. Of the common
stock 105,032 wcit in favor and 34 agninst out of lOTt'-lBo oUlBtnudlu':
GERARD TO GET GERMAN REPLY TODAY
BERLIN. May 4, The Foreign Office made the positive nn
llounceliuiit today that Germany's l eply to President Wihou's suuma
line demands would bo handed to Ambassador Gerard thia afternoon.
WILMINGTON'S POPULATION NOW 106,000
WILMINGTON, Del., May 4. Tho population of Wilmington, as compiled
by the Police Department census completed today, Is 106,000, compared to 97,000
In 1910.
ASK $43,000,000 FOR RIVERS AND HARBORS
WASHINGTON, May 4. Tho Senate Commerco Commltteo today authorized
ntiator Clarke, chairman, to report favorably the rivers and harbors bill carry-
Ins approximately $43,000,000, an increase of about $3,000,000 over tho Houno bill,
FIFTH CONTINGENT OF SLAV TROOPS IN FRANCE
PARIS, May 4. Another contingent of Russian troops has been landed at
Marseilles, It was officially announced today. This is tho fifth body of Russian
troops to bo lnntled here.
CONVICTED OF LIBELING WASHINGTON'S MEMORY
, TACOMA, Wnsh., May 4. Paul Hnffcr today was convicted by a Jury of
"llhellns the memory of Gcorprp WashinRton." Haffcr's conviptlon followed a
letter written by him nnd published in a newspaper In which he referred to
Washington ns a "slave-holder" and "Inveterate drinker." Under tho Stato law,
Haffer Is liable to fine and Imprisonment. He will probably appeal.
AMERICAN RANCHER SLAIN BY MEXICANS
EL PASO, Tex., May 4. Tho murder of C. II. Holly, a wealthy American
ranchman, nnd his Mexican foreman, 15 miles northeast of El Uub'lo, by Mex
ican outlaws, was announced here today In a report from General Pershing to
Major General Funston. They were shot to death on their ranch.
BALANCE OF $5,712,902 IN CITY TREASURY
Tho weekly statement of City Treasurer Wllllafn McCoach shows tliat tha
receipts amounted to $1,418,206.03 nnd the payments to $822,303. SI, which, with
tho sum on hand last week, npt including tho Slnkirtk Kund account, left a
balance of $5,742,962.21 at the closo of business last night.
LLOYD'S ODDS FAVOR PEACE BEFORE YEAR ENDS
LONDON, May 4. Indicating a very strong belief that tho war Is beginning
to draw to a close, Lloyd's today posted new Insurance rates, wagering only 1
to 3 that the watfwlll not end before December 31, 1910'. For several weeks tho
rate of Insurance to guarantee against loss If the war ends by the close of tho
year has been advancing steadily until it Is' now almost prohibitive. Thero has
been much speculation ns to whether tho brolcors have any substantial reason
for their action.
FIFTEEN KILLED IN BUDAPEST FOOD RIOTS
THE HAGUE, May 4. Fifteen persons were killed In food riots In Buda
pest on Sunday, according to private advices received here today. Two hundred
arrests were made. Crowd i of old men and women surrounded the Burgomas
ter's residence, shouting "Give us bread."
THIEF RETURNS GEMS AFTER THIRTY-FIVE YEARS
A valuable rnrl necklace, which was stolen 33 years ago from Mrs. Howard
Cooper Johnson, now living at 101 "West Mermaid lane, Chestnut Hill, reappeared
yesterday through the mall. The package was sent to Mrs. George 51. Lamb, of
Cedarcioft, N. J., Sirs. Johnson'j mother; accompanying it was a letter saying
that It had been stolen by a servant girl who long since hart repented of tho
theft and wished to mxke lestltution.
SWEDEN DISTURBED BY CZAR'S SEA BASE
BERLIN, 51ay 4. Th iUe.stion of the fortification by Russia of the Aland
Islands, the Finnish gioup lying between tho Gulf of Bothnia and the Baltic Sea,
off tho east coast of Sweden, came up recently in the Swedish Parliament, ac
cording to advices received hero by the Overseas News Agency. "The question was
brought up," says the repoit, "hv Professor Steffen, who stated that these Islands
had been strongly fortified bv Russia, and that the fortifications were a menaco
to the Swedish capital. Piofessur Stetfen recalled tho public discussions on th.9
subject In Sweden during 1908, In which there was general agreement that for
Russia to fortify the Aland Islands would be a menace to Swedish neutrality
nnd would endanger Stockholm. Professor Steffen declared that the present
fortifications were constructed to facilitate Anglo-Russian co-operation ngainat
Scandinavian countries, ard that they were thus meant to serve an aggressive
purpose."
MAY KEEP FRENCH BATTLE LINE AS "THE HOLY WAY"
PARIS, 5lay 4. A campaign has been begun to Induce the Government to
preserve the present French battle line untouched and appoint soldiers to take
charge alter the war. This Is to enable 600,000 Americans who have expressed an
Intention of visiting the battlefield to see the entrenched line exactly as It is now.
The suggested name of the battle line Is "The Holy Way."
CAPTURED SHIPS OFFSET LOSSES BY BRITISH
LONDON. 5lay 4. Earl Curzon. Lord Privy Seal, announced in the Houss
of Lords that 450 enemy ships had been detained, seized or captured by the Allies
in all parts of tho world since the beginning of the war. Earl Curzon added that
it was an encouraging fact and a curious coincidence that the British merchant
ships lost through war operations were exactly balanced in number and tonnage
by tho new ships added to the register during the war.
WOMAN'S CHAMPION CLAIMS $200,000 SHE LEFT HIM
A claim for the $200,000 left by a Detroit woman to a young man who three
years ago defended her from a gang of toughs on a Philadelphia street car has
been made by Frank H. Canning, of Clarksboro, N. J son of William H. Canning,
a Gloucester County constable. Canning said today he remembered the incident
clearly. The money was bequeathed by Mrs. J. T. Elklns, formerly Miss Irene
Chadley, of this city. 5lrs. Elklns' will named Frank H. Canning as the man
who had come to her rescue, but did not give his address. Philadelphia detec
tives were asked to find him, but the elder Canning, read about the bequest in a
newspaper and said his son had performed the service Mrs. Elklns described in
the will.
SPAIN MAY BACK U. S, IN U-BOAT STAND
PARIS, May 4. The Spanish Government, says a 5Iadrid dispatch to the
Temps, is disposed to suppo.'t the policy of the United States regarding sub
marine warfare. If America asks neutral powers in general to safeguard their
rights Spain Is willing to subscribe to a general understanding wlth a, view of
pi eventing Germany" from continuing the form of submarine warfare she here
tofore lias followed.
BRAZIL URGES AMERICAN ACTION ON LOSS OF SHIPS
RIO JANHIRO, 5Iay 4. The Journal do Commerelo protests vehemently
against the sinking of the Brazilian steamship RIo Branco, announcement of which
was made Tuesday. It cons'ders It impossible that "America will continue to
witness with folded arms the continuation of these tragedies- The paper says:
"TO leave me unusa niaies 10 aar uione wouia i9 equivalent to ins collapse of Ua
Pan-American idea. Qerraan would, be obliged to capitulate beforcthe unanimous
protestation of the peoples against her manner of making war."
V
4
tftt
ma
fc
lyjylyi)l Jfma-jMMaaMMfcMjgBMjBa,AgJa
