THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEATC.
10 PAGES
'jgTX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, MAY 4, 191G
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 350
9.1
M NAMES IN
PLOT TO WRECK
ILLAI CANAL
Editor John Dewey and At
torney John T. Ryan Men
tioned in Superseding In
dictments Handed .Down
By Grand Jury
REPLY TO AMERICAN
NOTE EXPECTED TODAl
WERE TO ASSIST
GERMAN EMPEROR
New Indictments Go Into
Details of Alleged Plot
and State it Was Aimed
to Assist Emperor of
Germany
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
NEW YORK, May 3. John Devoy,
editor of the Gaelic American, and
John T. Ryan, a Buffalo attorney,
were mentioned in superseding in
dictments handed down here today by
the federai grand jury that investi
gated the alleged German plot to blow
up the Welland canal. The two men
were not indicted .but are alleged to
have had cognizance of the conspiracy.
Devoy is a leader in this country of
the movement for Irish independence.
The new indictments go into the de
tails of the alleged plot, and for the
first time in the pro-German con
splracy cases state that it was aimed
to assist the German emperor. The
indictments are against Captain
Ftanz von Fapan, recalled German
military attache: Wolf von Igel, his
then secretary; Captain Hans Tau-
Bthor, agent of the Krupps In the
Pnited States and husband of Mme.
Gadrkl, the opera singer; Alfred A.
Fritzen anc Constantine Covani. Von
Igel and Captain Tauscher are the
only cnes under arrest. They will be
arraigned probably tomorrow.
Named as co-conspirators for the
first time, but not indicted, are Horst
von Der Goltz, former major in the
army of Villa, and a confessed spy
Carl Tuschendler, alias Tucker, and
Frederick Joachim Busse.
The indictments allepe that the plot
was a military enterprise, "and the
aim of the defpndant was the obstruc
tion of the military oierations of the
king of Great Britain and Ireland and
the furthering of the military opera
tions of the emperor of Germany by
means of bombs, dynamite and other
explosives to blow up and destroy the
Welland canal, a Canadian waterway."
The charge is made that Captain
von Papen, von Igel and Captain Tau
scher furnished the initiative and
funds for the expedition, and that
Fritzen and Covant were to have been
the perpetrators, with the assistance
of five other men, "German subjects"
engaged by von Der Goltz In Balti
more in August 1914. The leaders, the
indictments state, furnished the others
with automatic revolvers, ammuni
tions, bombs, dynamite and other ex
plosh es.
The accusation is repeated that
Captain Tauscher procured from the
local office of the Du Pont Powder
company 200 pounds of "60 per cent"
dynamite to have been used in the
work of destruction, and that the ex
plosive was obtained by von Der Goltz
on Tauscher's written order
Fritzen Covani and the others left
this city for Buffalo on September 14,
1914, it is charged, to carry out the
enterprise. The government alleges
BERLIN, May 3, (By wireless to
I the Associated Press via Sayville)
The German reply to the Amer-
i?an note on submarine warfare
may be expected momentarily. It
now appears, however. that
i Thursday may be the day on
which it will be handed to Am- I
bassador Gerard. I
Following the submission of the
j German reply, the center of grav-
I lty In the situation, it is consid- j
ercd here, will rest in Washington
! where it must be decided whether
I the proposal which Germany
makes meets the conditions of the
! last paragraph of the American
note.
I I
;
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 3. President
Wilson, Secretary Lansing and Colonel
F. M. House, held a long conference
tonight at the "White House. It is
understood that the submarine situa
tion was discussed but Secretary Lan
sing said later that he had received
no word from Berlin regarding the
character of the German note, which
TresK ditpatehes said prabably will
be handed to Ambassador Gerard tomorrow.
The president and his advisors are
keeping their minds open while they
wait for the German note. The deli'.y
very evidently has createl a bad im
pression, however, and it was stated
authoritatively today that the issue
would have to be cleared up this
veek if diplomatic relations with
Germany were to continue.
The president is known to be un
alterably determined to adhere strictly
to the position assumed by the United
States in its demand that Germany
immediately declare and effect an
abandonment of Its present methods
of submarine warfare.
No proposal of any kind will be ac
cepted by the American government,
it is said, unless it includes a declara
tion of Intention to stop sinking
peaceful ships. In this connection
press dispatches to the effect that
new orders to submarine commanders
would be told of in the German note
woe read with interest by officials,
but comment was withheld pending
he disclosure of the nature of the
instructions.
Colonel House, who discussed the
submarine issue with G-rmun officials
while abroad for the president several
months ago, arrived here this morn
ing. His coming to Washington was
considered significant because he has
taken an active part In the German
negotiations to date.
IRISH REVOLT
ARE EMTE0
Four Signatories to Repub
lican Proclamation m
Ireland Are Tried by
Court Martial, Found
Guilty and Shot
ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND MEN
ARE ON STRIKE
DAVIS PAVES WAY
FOR CONVENTION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .
NEW YORK, May 3. Approximate
ly 100,000 persons employed in various
trades in this city now are on strike
according to estimates made tonight
and thousands more are threatening to
quit work unless their demands are
met. With shipping virtually at a
standstill owing to the walkout of en
gineers and firemen employed on tug
boats and lighters, and the garment
industry almost completely paralized
by a lockout and strike employees gen
erally declared that not in many years ,
had labor conditions here been go
chaotic.
Officials of the various unions said
tonight there was- comparatively no
change In the situation. Although
hundreds of pickets were employed
during the day In the garment strike
it was stated that seldom, if ever,
have labor differences here affecting so
many workers been so free of disturb
ances. The 30,000 garment workers, employ
ed in 1,600 independent shops who
went on strike today in an effort to
enforce the dead of an equal number
of workers who were locked out from
the shops of the Manufacturers' Pro
tective Association last week were at
tired in their best clothes and poured
from the many buildings as if they
were off for a brief holiday.
Considerable relief was expressed In
shipping circles by the announcement
tonight that the large companies would
follow the lead of the International
Mercantile Marine in granting the de
mands of the longshoremen, 50.000 of
whom threatened to strike. The chief
development of the day in respect to
this clash of labor was a strike of sev
eral hundred freight handlers in Jer-
i sey City.
I CHICAGO, May 3. Oscar King
Davis, secretary of the progres- j
! slve national committee will ar-
j rive tomorrow for the first meet- j
! ing of the committee. Work on I
the credentials of delegates to be
present at the convention will be
! taken up. The convention . will
I meet here at the Fame time as the
republican national convention, j
I There will be 61 8 vote units in j
I the convention but some of the
I states are favoring sending two
I delegates with one half vote each.
I
-
Monday would return to work in less
than a week.
The forces of the striking garment
workers were Increased tonight when
2,000 members of the Amalgamated
Clothing Union went on strike.
o
IP. ATMOSPHERE IS CLEARING
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Several of the leaders of the Irish
re"o!t have been put to death in Ixin
don after a summary court-marfial,
and Premier Asquith has announced to
parliament that Sir Roger Casement,
who was recently captured while try
ing to land arms on the Irish coast
from a German ship, will be tried with
the utmost expedition. The situation
in Ireland is daily improving. Augus-tin-j
Birrcll, chief secretary for ire-
land, has resigned. He has acknowl
edged that be underestimated the
Sinn Fein movement and the possi
bility of disturbances in Ireland.,
No fighting of great importance is
reported from any of the battle fronts.
On the sector of the Mort Homme,
northeast of Verdun, the French have
taken additional German positions In
a brilliantly executed attack, and cap
tu red in the operation about 100 pris
oners and four machine guns. On
the renin indor of the front in l"rance
and Belgium nothing but artillery
duels have been in progress.
In the Adamello sector of the Austrian-Italian
Iront the Austrians and
Italian" still are engaged in the hard
fighting that has been in progress for
several days, but with no important
changes In positions reported.
A German aeroplane has dropped
bombs on Deal, Kngland. Some mate
rial damage was done, but only one
man is reported to have been injured.
The aert plane escaped.
Thirty-six casualties resulted from
the Zeppelin raid Tuesday night on
the northeast coast of England and
southeast coast of Scotland.
The house of commons, amid loud
cheer?', has passed the first reading
of the government's bill calling for im
mediate general military compulsion
for the duration of the war.
REPORTS GENERAL OBREGON
As Result of Conference With General Scott, Tension
Vanishes and Better Feeling is Manifest Between
the Two Races; Obregon Says Tentative Agreement
Has Been Reached, While Final Agreement Has
Not Been Perfected Tentative Terms Are Said to
Be Acceptable to General Carranza
Mexican
Along
Military Men
Border Believe
American Troops Will
Leave Mexico Soon After
Agreement Is Reached
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
EL PASO, May 3. General Alvaro Obregon, Mex
lean minister of war, tonight issued a statement to the
Associated Press in which he said:
"As a result of the conference yesterday with Gen
eral Scott the atmosphere seems now completely clear
ed up. Jliere is a much better leelmg between Amen
cans and Mexicans and all tension seems vanished.
fc K -i. ...a,, , . x i l i i i I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
. rt .. . ...m '"''"'; EL PASO, Tex., May 3. Mexican
tiling IS progressing laVOrablv and I have the highest t military men believe that the with-
hopes that matters will reach a successful elimination " fawal of th,e tATn tros JTm
l mi v 4i iiijiiiitiiivii. Mexico will take tilaee in about two
months, it waa learned here tonight.
American officers will make no com
ment on the subject.
The Mexicans say that In view of the
dispositions to be made by General
Alvaro Gbreeon. in coooeratintr with
General Hugh L. Scott, the hunting
WITHDRAWAL IS
C1I Will
fJEXT 2 MONTHS
REGULARS 1
rolls of the German imperial army.
TO ACCEPT NEW CONTRACT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
POTTSVILLE, Pa., May 3. Oppo
sition to the ratification of the ten
tative agreement entered Into by the
anthracite mine workers and operators
waH not so strongly manifested in the
convention of the union, men here
today as had been itnticipated by
some of those opposed to accepting
the netf contract. The entire day
was taken up with explanation of the
various divisions of the new agree
ment and many delegates who op
posed part of it have changed their
attitude. There Is no question that
the new scale and changed conditions
will be accepted by a large majority.
President John P. White made a
speech In which he said the minors
should rejoice In having carried one
of the cardinal planks of labor, name
ly the eight hour day.
ing carpenters and their employes and
tnat an early adjustment was expect
ed. The statement also was madp thi.t
10,000 painters who walked out last
Repucilcan A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, May 3. The
"Regular" or conservative republicans
increased their lead over the united
or "new" republicans in additional re
turns received today from yesterday's
presidential primary election. The
"regulars" had a vote of 113,702 as
against 82.162 for the candidates of the
united faction.
A statement by Guy C. Karl, chair
man or the l niteu republican con
ference which selected a list of dele
gates attributed the victory of the
regular republicans to an intense de
sire on the part of the people of Cali
fornia to dispense with the democratic
national administration. This in turn
he said, caused them to select the
regular ticket in order that there might
be no doubt of their Intention. He
concurred In this desire and expressed
the hope that a solid republican party
would line up for the fall campaign,
and that the action of the republican
national convention would make this
possible.
MARTIAL LAW IN BRADOQGK
AND EAST PITTSBURG DISTRICT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PITTSBURG, Pa., May 3. Martial
law practically prevailed in East
Pittsburg and Rraddock tonight. De
tachments of the Pennsylvania na
tional guard patrolled the streets In
the strike zones but no disorder was
reported.
The plants of the American Steel
Zeppelin Air Raid Results
In Thirty-Six Casualties
Republican A. P. Leased Wire I The Zeppelin was driven over hill
LONDON, May 3. The Zeppelin air '"! against a hillside. Its afterbody
nroKe in two an'i part oi it icu s
the ground. Some of the crew Jumped
cr were pulled out.
raid on the northeast coast of Eng
land and southeast coast of Scotland
laet night resulted In 36 casualties.
This announcement was mode official
ly today. One hundred bombs were
dropped.
The Zeppelin L-20 has been com
letely destroyed and driven ashore on
the western side of Hafso Firth,
Norway, according to advices from
Stavanger. Some of the crew were
rescued.
The Zeppelin L-20 passed north of
Rnnrlmtca nhnut m fiVlnrlr In tllA
morning says a Reuter dispatch from j were damaged and one man was
Btavanger. jured.
The Zeppelin then rose a little and
was driven westward, but the bag of
the dirigile collapsed in the center
anJ the airship descended rapidly. A
torpedo boat which had been following
along the toast went to Its assistance
and .-escued three men still in the
cat in. A fourth man had Jumped- out
shortly 'before,
Deal was visited by a German aero
plane this afternoon, according to an
official announcement. Several houses
in
and Wire company and the Edgar
Thomson Works of the Carnegie Steel
company, resumed operations tonight,
but large forces of police were sta
tioned Just Inside the gates, ready for
any emergency.
Rurgess W. Blair Miller of North
Rraddock, this afternoon discharged
all but one member of the police
force of the borough, consisting of
nine men, because of their refusal
yesterday to attempt to quell the riot
at the Edgar Thomson works. The
only man retained was off duty at
the time of the trouble.
Today strike leaders summoned the
English speaking strikers to a confer
ence to discuss plans for the opening
of peace negotiations with the of
ficials of the Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing company. A com
mittee was appointed to confer with
Patrick Gi'lay, chief of the Pennsyl
vania Rureau of Mediation and Arbi
tration in order that he-might ar
range a meeting with President E. M.
Herr of the electric plant.
" Steps looking to the adjustment of
wage differences In the McKees Rooks
district also were taken today. Eight
hundred striking repairmen and lab
orers of the Pittsburg and Lake Erie
railroad appointed a committee to
confer with railroad officials. Strik
ers from the Cass avenue plant of the
Pressed Steel Car . company also de
cided to name a committee to take up
differences with the company.
Four Are Shot
.ONODN, May 2. Four signitories
to the republican proclamation In Ire
land have been tried by court-martial,
found guilty and were shot this morn-
ng.
Patrick If. Pears, th "provisional
irerl lent of Ireland. was among
hose shot. Three other signers of
he proclamation wore sentenced to
hree years' imprisonment.
Premier Asquith made an announce
ment to this effect in the house of
ominous this afternoon.
Another of the rebels found guilty
and shot this morning was James
Connelly, who was styled command
ant central of the Iiish republican
irmv " Of the other signatories oi
th republican proclamation louna
guilty and shot were Thomas J. t lark
md Thomas MacDonagh.
Patrick Pearse, "tile provisional
president of Ireland," was nooni .u
vcars old, and was known in Ireland
an authority in Gaelic literature
it.. tivio,i in life :is a barrister, but
.lovotfd most of his time to nierary
pursuits. For some time he was ecn
.... f ihB Girlie Journal in Dublin
later founded St. r.nuas sciioui,
l,e conducted up to the time o!
the Sinn Fein rebellion.
Pearse had many friends, lie ice
. i:..i. 1.1. ...1u
lured in this country on nifu
ai.d Gaelic' literature, the proceeds of
his lectures going to the support oi
hi school.
The head of the Sinn rein reiiemon
. ,.t;..l,mn n 1.11 1
was tne son oi 1111 r.iiRiiniii"",
..,- him-ii' born and educated ill
Dublin. He was unmnrried.
T-imca (Vnnellv lived for reveral
vnn in Now York, where ne was ac
tive :s a society le'ider. Connelly re
turned to Ireland about five vears ago
to nid in organizing the Irish labor
party. He was about 50 years old and
was self-educated. He was the author
of a book entitled "Labor in Irish His
tory.' published in inionn. aim nan
editor of a labor paper in that city
called the Irish Worker. He was the
father of eight children, all of whom
survive him, as well as his wife.
Thomas MacDonough was a close
associate of Pearse's and a highly
educated man. He was for some time
assistant professor of English litera
ture in the National University of
Ireland but resigned to become as-
It was reported on goodh a successful elimination,
eral Ohregon had received assurances from Queretaro
that the terms of the tentative agreement would be ac
ceptable to General Garranza.
A high Garranza official who is very close to Gen-
fil"i Ol kl'mrciii ciwl.
,. , f,,7 down of the bandit groups in Chihua-
1 lie .Mexican military element, WllO have beeil m!h"a and Durrange m scarcely take
a state of tension ever since they started for the border ! Z "urancTrom General car
are now eompletelv tranquil. Since the news of the dig-1 ranza that the a-ndits are dispersed,
nified settlement of the issues at stake between the. I tnZZZ SLTZ
will not be long until the last trooper
crossed over the international bound
ary line.
In the meantime, it was pointed out
there will be constant movements
northward of American detachments,
so that when the final order for with
drawal comes there will be only a
part of the present expeditionary force
left on Mexican soil.
Answers to the long dispatches sent
today to Washington by General Scott
and to Queretaro by General Obregon
were not expected to be received here
before tomorrow. In case the terms
settled upon by General Scott and
General Carranza the present nego
tiations will practically be concluded.
although the formality of another con
ference will be gone through with
either tomorrow night or Saturday.
It is probable that no American troop
I movements will be begun until the
United States and Mexico began to leak out today a
very marked change has been apparent. Although the
proctocol has not yet been ratified by the respective
governments we have every hope that the danger of a
rupture has passed."
General Trevino, commander of the military divis
ion of the northeast announced tonight that he had par
doned a colonel, major and other Villista prisoners re
cently captured at Parras.
This action was taken in an attempt to induce other
bandits to surrender.
General Scott Reports
WASHINGTON, May 3. A long
telegram in code reached the war
department late tonight from Gen
eral Scott at EI I'aso. givintc a full
report on his conffrence with Gen
eral obregon, the Carranza war min
ister. Up to the time the message
was received, the Washincton gov-
tiie agreement could be taken until
after the president had studied Gen
eral Scott's dispatch tomorrow.
The Mexican problem is being
handled by the president personally.
it is understood, and no step will be j formal signing of an agreement by the
taken without his sanction. It has : two governments or at least until Gen
been hinted that it was Mr. Wilson eral Carranza has signified his ac
himself who suggested the conference ' ceptance of the stiDUlated conditions
eminent had no official knowledge between General Scott and General 1 direct to the Washington government
of the result of the discussion be-1 Obregon. j After that, however, the Mexican
tween the two military advisers, al- Officials apparently saw no reason ; and American troops are expected to
though administration officials had ! to doubt the accuracy of press re- ' begin at once a cooperative campaign
made no secret of their satisfaction i ports from El Paso giving the sub- i that will effectively stamp out the
over the news in press dispatches
from the border saying that an un
derstanding bad been reached and
danger of a clash with the de facto
Mexican government removed.
General Scott sent a brief message
rlnrinir the Huu th-if Via i.-nu nmiiopintf
-..ii .1 :,......! from
t. urn irinn i ii'i mu'i ii ,i nrwii mMun i
lo Swrplnrv !il-r Th .plii-v u,ul
a,i r:n,.ri uu ..h hir ..r "ing the field in which General
staff, were on watch for the report i
..ii .i,i.. .. ...i , r.... hn ;v. i
ut. .ij uik, uiiui .,ii mn, iuc nips"-. 1
As the hours passed, it became clear
that no action toward ratification of
stance of the tentative agreement. i various bandit groups.
The reports bear out information i It is generally understood here that
here as to the scope of the powers '; the first steps to be taken will be a
givvn General Scott in the additional j gradual retirement northward of the
instructions sent him after General ; American forces while the Carranza
Obregon's insistence on the immediate troops plunge into the campaign against
f the American troops ' the Villistas.
Mexico had brought a tempor
ary deadlock. Concessions as to lim-
Per-
shing's columns will operate here-
Columns now in the neighborhood
of San Antonio will fall back first to
Guerrero, where they will remain a
while. Later the Guerrero detach-
after Undoubtedly were authorized by'tnents will proceed to Namiquipa.
president himself in his confer-
( Continued on Page Three!
U. S. TROOPERS SUICIDE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, May 3. A letter re ceived here today from a soldier at
the front says two American troopers have just committed suicide at
Narr.iquipa. No names were given and the time was not stated.
According to the letter, a privat e approached a sergeant and asked
for his revolver. On receiving it he placed the weapon against his
head, pulled the trigger and fell dead.
While the body was being removed, an orderly approached the
scene and reported that another private had just shot and killed himself.
From here regiment will be gradually
detached and transferred to Colonia
Dublin until finally the whole force
occupies a restricted zone along the
border.
It is regarded as altogether probable
that a certain percentage of the troops
will re-cross the border some time be
fore the word comes that the Carranza
-
(Continued on Page Three)
(Continued on Page Nine)
o
Fay Admits He
Made Device lo
Disable Ships
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. May 3. Lieutenant
Robert Fay of the German army, on
trial here with Walter Scholz and
Paul Daeche charged with conspiring
to destroy ships carrying munitions to
the entente allies, occupied the wit
ness stand in his own defense through
out the entire, session of the federal
district court today. He denied that
he had any intention of destroying
vessels, but admitted he had invented
a device to attach to rudders of muni
tions carrying craft which would In
capacitate them.
Daeche, he said, supplied him with
explosives, believing they were being
used by him for experimental pur
poses only. Daeche knew nothing,
Fay added, of an alleged plot to blow
up ships.
UII LiU ULULAHLU I
NOT GUILTY ON BOTH CHARGES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire , money I can earn with the exception j
CHICAGO. May 4 The jury in the ' ot that n?ssgary to support my family. :
: until every onugation nas oeen ais-
charged and every dollar has been
William Lorimer case returned a ver
dict of not guilty at 12:30 o'clock this
morning. .
The jury was out a little more than
six hours.
' The jury in its verdict held that
Lorimer had no part in any violation I
of the banking laws in connection with
the career of the La Salle Hank failure
and that he had no knowledge of such !
violations.
The verdict was the same on both I
the charge of conspiracy to defraud i
and that of embezzlement the court !
paid back."
I PLANNED TO MAKE
! RAID ON DOUGLAS I
I I
I WASHINGTON, May 3. A con-
! sular dispatch today told a story
I of how a Jamaican negro named I
Magoon, said to be a deserter j
from the United States army, had
joined a lawless band of Yaqui
Indians in northern Mexico, and
acquired considerable influence j
ever them. According to the re- I
! port, Magoon has been trying to j
persuade the Yaquis to raid Doug-
las, Arizona, but had been unable I
j to convince them that such an
! expedition could be successful.
I The dispatch was turned over to j
! the war department and forward- j
ed to General Funston so that j
! precautionary measures might be j
', taken.. j
p
Tentatively Agreed On Army
Reorganization Measure
Republican A. P. Leased Wire The conferees became deadlocked
Asniciu, ay a. neorgani- temporarily when
zalion and federalization of the na-
arate verdict on each charge would ! ul,nal a as proposal oy me iiuusb.
have to be returned. I whereby there would be created a j
As the clerk read the verdict a shout i mllit'a reserve or approximately 400.
went UD in the court room and there 0 men, was tentatively agreed upon
was a rush of spectators to shake the j today by the conferees of the army j 000 men, which was twice saved In the
hand of Lorimer as he stood smiliuir I &W- The senate s provisions ror tne senate Dy a Close vote after It had
in front of the judge's bench. j national guard were along the same i been bitterly opposed by champions of
they reached the
federal volunteer army reserve of the
senate bill, and after a spirited debate
the. matter was passed over without
action. This proposed force of 2G0.-
After the commotion had subsided i line as those in the house bill, but
Lorimer addressed the Jury in a tremb- ! would provide for only 250.000 men.
ling voice. After thanking the jurors ! Some of the senate amendments to
he said: : the original senate bill respecting the
"I want to say that in giving me militia may be accepted tomorrow, in
liberty the people who. deposited money j eluding the Wadsworth amendment
in the La Salle Btrei Bank beginning : which would require enlisted officers
with those who can least afford to lose, and men to take an oath to the United further instruction
will have all of my services, all of the i States as well as to the state. J and house.
the national guard, probably will not
be agreed upon by the conferees. It
was asserted tonight that the senate
conferees would not yield their point
and prediction was made that the com
mittee would have to report a dis
agreement on that feature and seek
from the senate
