t
muiln H
WEATHER
MARKE IS
NEW YORK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
April 26, 28.42.
RIZONA Gsneraly
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 18, NO. 292.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, MAY 4, 1916 '
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
j
GERMAN NOTE
.GIVES TO
GERARD
1HUY
36 DIE BY ZEPPELINS
LONDON".-May 3. The ep
pelin air raid on the northeast
coast of England and south
east coast of Scotland last
night resulted In 36 casualties.
This announcement was made
oicially today. One hundred
bombs were dropped.
The Zeppelin L-20 has been
completely destroyed and driv
en ashore on the western side
of Hafso Firth. Norway, asrord
inR to advices from Stevanger.
Some of the crew were rescued
Should Reply Prove Evasive
Prompt Severance Of U. S.
Relations Is Expected To
Follow
LONDON, May 3. Deal was
visited by a German aeroplane
this afternoon, according to an
official announcement. Several
houses were damaged and one
man was injured.
LEADERS OF
MUST BE CLEARED UP
AT ONCE, SAYS WILSON
German Press Says It Is Now
Up To America To Decide
Whether Answer Meets De
mands Or Fails
(By Review Leased Wire.)
BERLIN, May 3. (By wireless
to the Associated Press via Say.
ville) The German reply to the
American note on 6ubmarine war
fare may be expected momentari
ly. It now appears, however, that
Thursday may be the day on
which it will be handed to the
American embassy.
following the submission of the
German reply, the center of grav
ity in the situation, it is consid
ered here, will rest in Washing
ton where it must be decided
whether the . proposal which Cer
many makes meets the conditions
of the last paragraph of the
American note.
BODY FAVORS
USE WATER
REVOLT IN
IRELAND
EXECUTED
:
I
i
'.
,
.
!:
:
400,000 MILITIA FOR U. S.
Firing Squad Ends Dream Of i
Freedom For Four Who !
Commanded Rebels In Dub-1
Lin Rioting
i
BIRRELL RESIGNS
T-f"Tn tut inn - rrt
i
Chief Secretary Admits Un-J
derestimated Danger. Mem-
bers Of Parliament Ex-!
change Heated Retorts j -
WASHINGTON, May 3.
Reorganization and federaliza-
tion of the national guard as
proposed by the House where-
by there would be created a
militia reserve of approximate-
ly 400.000 men, wa3 tentatively
agreed upon today by the con-
ferees of the army bill. The
Senate's provisions for the na-
tional guard were along the
same line as those in the
House bill, but will provide for
only 20,0O0 men. Some of the
Senate amendments to the bill
msy be reached tomorrow.
The conferees became dead-
locked temporarily when they
reached the federal volunteer
army reserve of. the Senate bill
and after spirited debate the
matter was passed ever with-
out action. This proposed force
of 2l0,000 men. which was
twice saved in the Senate by a
close vote after it .had been bit-
teily opposed by1 champions of
the national guard, probably
will not be agreed upon by the
conferees. It was asserted to-
night that the Senate confer-
ces would not yield the point
and prediction was made that
the committees would have to
report disagreement on that
feature and seek further in-
stnictions from the Senate and
House.
$
EE
LETS 0. 5.
ASSIST II
MEXICO
WASHINGTON. May 3. President
Wilson, Secretary Lansing and Col.
E. M. H'ouse held a long conference
tonight at the White House. It is un
derstood that the . ubni&rine situation
was discussed Lut Secretary Lansing
said later that he received no word
fro'.u Berli.i regarding the character
of the German note, which press dis
patches said- probably will be handed
to Ambassador Gerard tomorrow.
The President and his advisers arej
keeping their minds open while they
wait for the German note. The delay
has created a bad impression, how
ever, and it was stated authoritatively
today that the issue would have to be
cleared up this week if diplomatic re
lations were i"j continue.
The President is known to be
unalterably determined to adhere
Opposition, Headed By Pin
chot Charge Members With
Using Organization To Fur
ther Ends Of Capital
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. May 3. Advocates
of the Shields Water Power Bill,
pending in Congress, won their fight
in the National Conservation Con-
1 gress today when the congress vot-
en to adopt a majority commiitee
report endorsing the measure. Gilford
PPinchot ,who at the last Congress
three years ago defeated a proposal
i somewhat similar opposed today's ac
tion.. Charges that the convention
was backed by the power Interest
were made and denied.
The vote, 116 to 39, came after the
divided committee debated all after
noon. The minority report opposed
endorsement of any legislation and de
manded a declaration of principles
holding that power sites should be
retained by the government and that
al! water power development should
be under public control.
The Pinchot delegates charged that
the congress had been called to create
sentiment favorable to the 'Shields
and Meyers bills and that it did not
represent -the true sentiment of the
country. Mr. Pinchot declared spec
ial interests were trying to mould
congress into a lobby for water power
legislation.
"This shows to what lengths the
interests are prepared to go to fur
ther leeislation to serve their own
This
real
(By Review Leased Wire)
LONDON. May 3. Found guilty by'
a court martial, four leaders of the
revolt in Ireland, Patrick H. Pearse,
whose' title was "Provisional Presi-
dent", and Jas. Connolly, in command !
of the rebel troops. Th'jiiias J. Clark '
and Thomas McDonough were executed j
today by a firing squad. Three others
were sentenced to three years ini-1
prisonment. j
Another aftermath of the revolt,
came today with the resignation j(
Augustine Eirrell, thief secretary for;
Ireland. ,
II W
MS HI PS
U. S. NAVY 10
r
r
t
Ml
LONDON May Z The announcement
in the House of Commons by the :
prime minister that leaders in the. i -r li ".,,-,.,...
rebellion in Ireland had been court - Daniels I ells Congressman
martialed and summarily executed,'
created a profound feeling, although'
this action by the k'jvernment was ex-;
pected. j
Premier Asquith at the' same time;
announced that Sir Roger Casement,! nOF-SNT KNOW SIZE
wuu vtua true ui itic- fiumc- muti-ia 111
America Falls Far Behind
Germany. And France In
Sea Strength Now
Dirnifiied Settlement Of Am
erican-Mexican Trouble Is
Believed Accomplished If
Governments Ratify
AMERICAN TROOPS
STAY IN MEXICO
Will Protect Border, Without
Railways, While 25,000
Carranza Soldiers Pursue
Vill;
a.'
l" "' i" nnrtiriilar interests 'he "said
I nited Slates in its demand that Get-i part,cular ln,e, ' .
anv im,.Hi.i, ,.1. oi 1 congress should represent the
an abandonment of its present meth . conservationists of the country who
ods of submarine warfare. I'""1 Illation tht will do the most
No proposal -jf any kind will be ac-iof tne Public Z00 and wiu serve tne
i . .. . .1 nnrnncp nf Tin unAta! sot nf mon
cepiea dv me American government, i " r " j
it is said, unless it includes a declar-i L- '-ee worsham. of Atlanta, presl-
ation of intention to stop sinking, dent of tne congress. G. E. Conor
peaceful ships. In this connection!01 Lincoln, Neb., chairman of the ex-
the uprising and who now is a pri
soner in the Tower of London, v.'juld
be tried with the utmost expedition.
Jho. Redmond, leader of the Irish
parliamentary party, begged the gov
ernment to be lenient with the great
mass of tljse involved in the revolt
and said he was partly to blame for
Mr. Bin-ill's earlier complacency re
specting conditions in Ireland as he
had concurred in the secretary's view
that the danger of an outbreak was
not a real one.
OF OTHER NAVIES
KL PASO. May 3. Generals
Scott and Obregon today rea'-hed
a tentative Egreement as to tue
rii'T'O.-iition of American forces m
Mexico which it is believed will
avoid embarrassment to either
nation, but as that their re.spev
tive governments must ratify the
agreement, the details were not
trad oublic.
Officials' intimate with the ne
gntiv?. however, said that the
asreement calls for co-operation
of American troops in Northern
Mexico, without the use of rail
ways, and with certain other re
strictions. It is also understood Obregon
agrees to employ at least '25,000
men in clearing the bandit j in
fected territory immediately, and
that not until this end has been
accomplished may American sol
diers be withdrawn.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL I'APO. May 3. General Obre
gon .Mexican minister of war. tonight
United States Able To Build 'ssued a statement to the -ssociated
p. j , . . . Press in which he said:
5 DreadnaughtS, 14 UrUlS-j as a result of the conference yes-
r. At Onrp. Sav P-nnvl. terday with General Scott the at-
vania Representative
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. May 3. Secretary ! vanished
Daniels todrfy transmitted to Repre- -An agreement has not been reach
sentative Butler, of Pennsylvania. 1 bu, overvthinz is DrocresKine fa-
Lawrence Ginnell. member for the .ranking Kepublican member or the vorablv aml j have th ni;;n.st hope.
n'jrth division of West meath. who is "ouse naval committee, a report of.,m, niatter. win reaPn successful
classed as a nationalist, but follows !lle K"! board of the navy show-; uImina,ion
the leadership of no party, greeted inK tnat because of lack of informa-j ,t wfl! reporld on good au,hority
the announcement of the premier 1 J" regarding additions to turoPHantoni ht ,at Gen,.ra, obregon bad re
that some of the leaders of the Irish . nav,? 81lue the v'ar beK.an.;, '.l is ,m."' reived assurances from Qutretaro
rebellion had been shot with the cry e "' '"'itnnt tne terms 0 ftn etentative agree-
$
PUSHING MARKS TIME
fur. Xlk 3 -General
PeT ' luOu were
.stUl at San . . ac-
cordinn to aov J yeived
.here. Other t'lafl 'Hying
'pursuit of scattered -Villista .
bands in the vicinity of Satevo.
the expeditionary troops were
said to be stationary. '
New reports of Villa'rf where
aUouts were brougtit unofficial
ly across the border tonight.
These place the bandit leader
well across the Durango line,
in the mountains about loo
miles south of Parral.
$$
'
:
i
'
:
l
:i
110 HAILS
GEN. OBREGON
PROHIBITION TO
Ei IN SOiH
WHEN HUERTA
ARRIVES
Calles Says New Governor
Was Recommended By
Him; Anticipates Few
Changes In Government
AS HERO OF
MEETING
Juarez Jubilant And Sees
Speedy Capture Of Villa
And Withdrawal Of Amer
ican Soldiers
(By Review Leased Wire.)
' DOUGLAS. Arizona, May 3. Gen
eral P. Elias Calles. military gove
nor of Sonora, confirmed the report subject.
25.0C0 DE FACTO
TROOPS SEEK BANDIT
Americans To Guard Border
From Casas Grandes, While
Carranzistas Scour Nation
For Outlawst
(ByReview Leased Wire)
EL P.VSO. May 3. Mexican military
men brieve that the withdrawal of
the Ajrferican troops from Mexico ill
takjr place in about two months, it
learned here tonight. American
officers will make no comment on the
that Adolfo de la Huerta had been
appointed by Venustiano Carranza to
be the civil governor of Sonora. This
step. General Calles said, was taken
at bis, Calles. sugegstion.
The duties of the commander in
r'Vi i..f f tha arva o mi v nnir In Snnnro
have been so arduous recently that l,mu l,m" '7.' 1
for almost a month he has been unable I Tf . k . . """V"' ' "i
. ... .. . .. , ranza that the bandits are dispersed.
'1110 tmnhu'aril TiiAvanidiit ,.F A t.itn
iai lunciious.
General Calle, fa'd tha? he recom-
trended d la Huerta for the position
The Mexicans sav that in view of
the dispositions to be made by Gener
al Alvaro Obregon, in ("ooneration
with the tentative agreement made
with General Hugh L. Scott, the hunt
ing down of the bandit groups in Chi
huahua and Durango can scarcely
because of the fact that he and de la
Huerta are good friends, personally.
mencan
ti'.ops will attain full speed and it
will not be long until the last tmoprr
crosses over the international bound
ary line.
In the meantime, it was pointed out.
rrosthere seems now completely
cleared up. There is a much better
; feeling between Americans and Mex
icans and all tension seems to have
warm advocate of the radic.-tl policies i northward "of American dHachmen's.
which Calles has fathered since his go that wntn tlie unaI orur for mi,.
afceession to power . Idrawal conies there would be only
There may be a niodif'iation of j part of the present expeditiorerr
seme of his policies, among tlim the! force on Mexican soil.
s trict prohibition law. General t alles j Answer to long dispatches sent
aid. But there be i.o greai ,j Washington by General Scott arj
change. All of Calles' appointees are : to Queretaro by General Obregon
'to be retained in office, which itself .'were not expected to be received be-'
argues that the same poiis will be . fore tomorrow. If the terms settled
In force, the present set of officials; on by Generals Scott and Obreson
being extremely radical in their ten- j are approved by President Wilson and
dencies . j General Carranza. the present net'-'tia-
General Calles reecived permit t'ons will practically be completed, al
from General T. F. Davis, on inslnu-! thouuh the formality of another cor.-
Hher
press dispatches to the eflect that new
orders to submarine t'jmmanders
would be told of in the German note
were read with interest by- officials,
but comment was withheld pending
the disclosure of the nature of the
instructions.
Col. House, wh'j discussed the sub
marine issue with German officials
while abroad for the President sev
eral months ago, arrived here this
morning. His coming to Washington
was considered significant because he
ecutive committee denied that
(Continued on Page Five.)
any
of "huns". F'Jr some minutes he pre- P"s"' program iuu o nectary
vented Mr. Birrell from making a!10 re-estaensn tne l niiea Ma es m
personal statement and gave, notice ' seco"d Place anlonK ,he VrlJ 8 sea
that he moved a resolution calling at-; powers' . , , , , . ,
tention to the shooting of "innocent ( Tne boar? Included in its report a
men by this Hunnish Avernment." ; 8urvev of the fleet 'jf the Principal
Mr Rirrell when hp snt a limrinr : " .
said he would have an opportunity as
(Continued on Page Two.)
CELEBRITIES NAMED 111 PLOT OF
DYNAMITERS AND IRISH REVOLT
i much of the information of which
was given by Rear Admiral Benson
i in his testimony before the naval com
i mittee.
1 The report says there is no au
thentic data available as to the num
'ber of tvnes of shiDS that have been
'added to belligerent navies since the
'outbreak of the war. although it isj
I certain that all these nations havej
i been building to the extent of their
ment would be acceptable to General
Carranza.
A high Carranza official who is
very, very close to General Obregon
said:
"The Mexican military element,
who have been in a state of tension
(Continued on Page Five.) '
lions from General Funstnn. nennit- t 'erence will De gone over wltn
tine f"iiuj in travel thpnm ti ih r ! Friday nisht or Saturday.
S. to El Paso to join General Obre- Gradual Retirement,
gon. The general stated that he ex-j It is generally understood that the
pects to remain from ten to fifteen I first step to be taken will be Vrailual
davs in southern Mexico, then will : retirement northward jf the Amort
! return to Sor.ora to give his entire at-an forces, while the Carranza trocps
tention to military matters. During j plunge into the campaign anaint the
his absence and until the arrival of ' 'l'stas.
r.nrn..r te 1 Huerta Snnora affairs I Cclunins now in the neighborhood
will be administered by Enrique Mo-"f San Antonio ' "; nm t
reno, secretary of state.
General Arnulfo Gomez arrived
Agua Priea late last night and
(Continued on page three)
Guerrero, where t
ill remain.
in
! I-ater the. Guerrero detachments will
re-1
proceed to Xauihiuipa. From here
100,000 ON STRIKE IN NEW YORK;
SHIPS IDLE; BUSINESS PARALIZED
(By Review Leased Wire.) iTauscher furnished the initiative and ! capacity. As to personnel, the ret'jrt
NEW YORK, May. 3. John Devoy,' funds for the expedition and than i savs tne onlv positive information isj
..i. . - . . leditor of the Gaelic American, and Frit-en and fovani were tn hare hwn that t.rpat Britain voted an increasel
ma i .1 rv , 1 1 mi. hi i i unn in in i . r- . - - - - - - - -
. . .... i T .1 i n T Pvb a RnfTaln ttnrnov Uhn rvAmfttva nm-a .
man neeoiiaiinns l- date. ... ........ -
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NEW YORK. May 3. Approxi
mately IdO.OOO persons employed in
various trades in this city are now
FRENCH LOSSES BIG
IN VERDUN RALLY
... ... .... . . 1 nr 1111)1111 .i .... (. th. antii-A nnfcmn.
uuuaiu ouuiurj, me perpeiraiois wun ine assistance -.. - utriUe arrnrH nr to estimate')
i i.. -,,..- i i-i ' ... . . . .... -. .. nei nf nor Meet '
.ruuUuCu ... .rV t " iivoouif-r men, ooriuan suojecis t, .. :r.j I made tonight, and thousands more
oown today Dy tne federal grant ur? engaged by von der Goltz in Balti- .... '" " threateninc to
. . , . m . . . 1 . . I that ik nrnirMm whtnh ha -vi it 1 inuil I II I r n trii nif; v
Germans Reported Raking
Enemies' Lines With
Disastrous Effect
fBv Review Leased Wire.)
-A German cor-1
that inevstigated the alleged German more, in August, 1914. The leaders,!
Dlot to blow up the Uelland canal, the indictments state, furnished the!
The two men are not indicted, but are pothers with automatic revolvers, am
alleged to have had cognizance of the ' muntion. bombs, dynamite and other !
conspiracy. Devoy is a leader in this explosives.
country in the movement or Iris,h in-j The accusation is repeated that
dependence. - , j Captain Tauscher purchased from the;
The new indictments 'go Into the '. local offices of the DuPonl Powder i
that the nrogram which he outlined
wa one that would put the navy in
se')nd place in three vears. The re
port savs that accordine to Its best
information, the cotmtrv is tiow
eauioped to be-rin building simti'tme
oulv within sK "'onths. five dred
nauehts. five battle cruisers, nine
sco'it cruifers. twentv-two detrovers
quit work unless
details of the alleged plot ana ror tne - iuui...s oi sixiy per-j,, nn nnIin)itPd minibpr of 81lbmar-
first time In the pro-German consplr- cent anaume to nave Deen usea in ne,
tne work or destruction and tnav Thp rp,.,rt points ot that thp
the explosive was obtained by von avallnhle snnnlv nf skilloH labor now
acy in Ireland states that it was aim
ed to assist the German emperor.
C'eel company, resumed operations ' will aid greatly by virtue of its posi-
tonight. but large forces or- police tion.
were stationed just inside the gates, j U. S. Not to Ue Rail.
ready for any emergency. . I The retirement of the American
Burgess W. Blair Miller of North j troops will be gradual: the railways
Praddock. discharged all but one will not be utilized, because they iH
niemhur nf the nnlice fnn-e if the I not be necessarv. The ni.n hinx dist-
imilitary attache, Wolfe von lgel, his I Thp government alleges its case is hniMinf proernm. I :i tic. ting so many workers been 0 I borough, consisting of nine nun. be-;ancos will be short.
. . ... "......( r T pp...n. iitrpn?! lunAH liv 1 n fg.i i hni 1 1 1 . , ...... i . . . . . . . . . I ..... . . . t -r i. :n . .... . .1 . . K Mtl
minted hv the r)verea Vew Apennvi t-creim , v allium nana nw, .... ...... r. i.-mer pii hsrou ior a siie-.iree oi uisiuiDHiices. cause or tneir refusal yesteruay lo at - I in-i- -u. i-- nu ui-t-u ..i hit- io..-
,.., " .! .' ... V I fher, agent for the Krupps in th indicted men are on the roMs of ment also as to when the American ! The 30.000 garmen workers, eiu- tenu.t to nuell the riot at the E.lear ! "ays for the shipment of supplies, ami
The indictments are against Cap-. der Goltz on Tauscher's written or-; undetermined would control in la-"e
BERLIN, May 3.
respondent jn the
i-tain Franz Papen recalled German er.
thefr deniands are met. With ship
ping virtually at a standstill, owir-i
to the walkout of the engineers rnd
firf-on employed on the tug uo.tt.s
tind i'ghters. and the garment Indus
try almost completely paralyzed by
n locckut and strike .employcis son
e-i:!ly declared that in no time -n
years have conditions here beeti .-o
cliaot ic.
Although hundreds of pickets wore
employed during the day in the gar
ment strike it was said that seitiOn,
("oy v ; returning to
than a v cek.
work in ss i
here regiments will be gradually de-
Jtached and transferred lo Column
j Dublan until finally the whole force
.'occupies a restricted zone a?jng the
j border. It is regarded as altogether
probable that a certain prercentage of
the troops will re-cross the border
Jsome, time before the word (j:ns that
i the Carranza government has accom
, plished its mission.
While the Carran7a forces are
gweepinc through southern Chihuahua
land Durango, the Americans will be
looking after groups .ip-ratirsr to iT.e
north. -
It Is understood that General Obre
gon is pledged to throw every avail
able ounce of his military slrengt":!
manner anv nlan to speed up the j if -er have labor uitferences here
MARTIAL LAW PREVAILS.
PITTSBURG. Pa.. May 3. Martial j
law practically prevailed In East I
Pittsburg and Braddock tnoight. De-1
tacnments or tne t ennsy ivania a- j into ,he hunt for the var.'.ms marau.l
tional Guard patrolled the streets in : ering bunds. It is believed that al
the strike zone .but no disorder , most ai the 2j.0i0 nu n suggested bv
reported. j General Carranza as a Mexican patrol.
The plant of the American Steei , i , ase the American s;overnnent cm
and Wire Company and the Kdgar sented to withdraw, would be utilized
Thompson works of the Carnegie ! jn the campaign. The main force
Verdun front is;
today as declaring that the French,
during the past few days, have been
making violent attacks on the Ger
man lines before the fortress and suf
fering heavy losses in their attempts!
to recapture observation posts which!
the Germans bad taken.
The Germans, the correspondent I
United States and husband of Mme. German imperial army.
IGadski, the opera singer, Alfred A.
Fritzeu and Constantine Covani. Von
I gel and Captain Tauscher are the
They will
tomorrow.
only ones under arrest,
be rearraigned probably
CALIFORNIA STANDS PAT.
PAX n.-M'ISCO May .1 The reg-
fjints out, control a large area be- ,,rt" V",e' DUl "ol 'namro.,r' '10
hind their lines available for the de-lTOn dpr Goltz, former major of the
Named as co-conspirators for the ulars or conservative republicans in-
velopment of reserves and bringing i nn'r of viIIa and " conessvl spy;
up of supplies, while the French arejv arl usiienuoi. anu rreuencR jo
tnrrvA in mnrpntrntu in ftenne mflcsps ;Chim Busse.
in the sectors of a fan. the sides of
which are formed by the lines which
creased their lead over the united
or new Republicans in additional re
turns received tonieht. The reeulars ;
lhad a vote of 113,720 as against 82,-;
The Indictments alleged that the 152 for the candidates oi the united
plot was a military enterprise and; faction. A statement made by Guy
the Germans are attaching. Thus;,ne alin or tne aerenaants was tnejv. can cnairman oi me uniteu
ovorv ..n.Mn. nt.M In ant Dvanr t ODSlTUCIIOn OI military ODerBllOnS Ot!P"U"CIl l lllliereitce WIIU1I en-l ieil a
foot of land, rs under the German fire. tne Kin of Grat Britain and Ire
while the French artillery is Dreed ! lBnl nd tn furthering of the mili
to cover laree area sekinr out snorts' 'fry operations of the Emperor Oi
na'-v drnnned fro"' second nlace.
j "Tim I'nited States fst second
i n'ace," the renresenfatl'-e savs. 'he
! (.iP it not build shiDS and uro
l vide personnel to meet the v-ell
(known hniWiPT program of the nation
j now seconH in naval strength." nH
i refr tn "the German law of 1S9S
i and 1900."
list of delegates, attributed the vic
tory to an Intense desire of the pro
pie to dispense with the Democratic
PRICE OF SUGAR
HIGHESJ EVER
mite and other explosives to blow up
and destroy the Welland canal, a Ca
nadian waterway.
The charge is made that Captain
where it is supposed the German Gonvany by means of bomb, dyna- party, tnis causea tnem to select tne
trooos are located. On the other
hand, the correspondent declares,
each German shot finds its mark,
and the German heavy artillery caus
es havoc.
relgul-rs in order that there might !
He expressed the hope that a solid I
be no doubt concerning their desires. I
Republican party would line up for I
von Papen, von lgel and Captain the fall convention.
NEW YORK, May X On re
ports that Great Britain was
buying raw suear heavily in
Cuba at nrice8 above the pari
tr of the local market, that pro
duct advanced today to the
hiehesf point on record. Sales
were made at RS-R for June
shipment, which is eonal to
K4 for centrifueal. T.s re
find nrndui t was not affected.
)i
ployed in I.60O houses, who went op Thompson works. The only man re-
Mrike in an effort to inufluonce anjtained was off duty at the time of
equal number of workers who wrethe trouble.
locked out .were attired in the best I Toriav strike leaders summoned
n .. .i ...... a r...... .
IIIIIIK.- anu l'umr ti v ii n- t-i.tiij
huililintt ns if they were off for a
brief holiday.
Considerable relief was expre-sed
in shipping circles tonight by the an
nouncement that the large compniiict.
the strikers to a conference to dis
cuss plan sfor the opening of peace
necotintions with the officials of the
Westlnghouse Electric and Manufac-
im.;.. ..An.rvunv A mmniili.. .......
appointed to confer with Patrick Gil'- ! V?. om 0f aU. ,own: xm
u i.ki.. ..n. .. ...... . ..... . r. i . . anu iu uii-- rirri
niuiiu jm iiuiuij n'liuw iu- i.i in ii.(-tiiay .cniei oi i lie i i-iiusy i nnia noaru
Inierr.a. lonal Mercantile Marine in of mediation In order that he might
.roi di'i g.o the demand for highe-1 arrange a meeting with Presdenti
right to use them is utidersti'.nl to
have beeu relinquished.
The line of communication from
Columbus to Casas Grandes. as it
shortens, will become much easier to
maintain.
Every effort will be made to ax'jid
conflict between the natixes and the
American troops. The letter are to
to escape
wi.f.c- ol i he longshoremen, iiO.Oi.O of
whom threatened to strike. Tlv chief
dovelop iient of the day was a strike
of sv ral hundred freight handlers
in J ey City.
Ft w.is announced tonight tha a
cotiiniiitee had been orined l take
up the differences wt.ich vx-.sz be
tween tb strikers and their .mpIov-or-
and that early adjustment
oxnec ed. It was al?o said that lo.ooo
pu.i;t-r who walked out las. Mon-
effort
contact with Mexicans.
The retirement f the Americans
J will bo dignified and contingent upon
the effective cooperation of the Mox-
Herr of the electric plant. Steps loon-
iiik io ine aujiisi iii?-iii m whko nmiT- . i..fln.
en.es in the McKees Rocks district Following his conference vesterdav
also were taken today. Kicht hun- atl(, )a;(t nieh, with ceneral Ohregon.
dr-d striking repairmen and laborers ,np (iis,.ssion wcupving 12 hours,
of the Pittsburg and I.ske Erie Rail I General ;sr-tt snatched a lew hour
way appointed a committee to confer sleep today and then started to work
with railway officials Strikers in ' filing a report to Secretary of War
fhi Cass Avenue plant of the Tressed j Baker at Washington. Preparation of
Steel Car company alt decided toj the report consumed all of the morn
name a cotrniittee to take up differ-. ing. It was .ded by Colonel Roiicrt
enccs with the company. I (Continued on Tage Five)
