The Citizen
Devoted to ttie Intereste of ttie OTarrtgLlii People
KlRJtA PUCLISHING CO.
(KTASATBBI
wm. a ntosT. ! Odrf
C H. WnTDIUGU, Uitaf
P. O. IOWMAN, Allium M f
Knowledge U eewer end Ik
way to keep up with modern
knowledge it U feas
newspaper.
Store1 Ito PMt-oJfet M SWM, ff., M IWI
vol. xvn.
Five Cent a Copy.
BF.RRA. MADISON COUNTY. KENTW.KV, MAY i. 101ft.
One Dollar a Year.
No. 45.
The Shields-Small Bill
One of the best plans for a system of national high
ways, by the Corps of Engineers of the army, is now
pending before the Senate and House Committees on
Military Affairs.
The National Highways Association declares that "In
particular this bill embodies the principle of having con
ducted a scientific investigation and survey of the high
way routes upon which federal funds are to be expended
before the work of construction is begun. It seeks to
prevent the hit or miss building of roads by the Federal
Government."
"Under the terms of the Shields-Small bill, the Fed
eral Government would devote its funds and energies
solely to the construction of main or trunk line highway
units connecting and correlating the highway systems
within the States."
Senator George W. Norris, of Nebraska, said, "I
think the contribution of the Federal Government ought
not go to all the roads in the country. It ought to be
confined to a system of interstate highways."
We are heartily in favor of this restrictive idea in the
use of Federal Funds. Soon may the time come when
we shall have these trunk lines to which the states and
counties may build and thus form a complete road system.
SENATE BILL HO. Sift.
Senate Bill No. 318, recently pass
ed by the Legislature and approved
by the Governor and is now a law.
This law is aimed at one of the
greatest evils that afflict our social
life. Our houses of ill fame are
cruited very largely from ignorant ate any money or other thing of
girls from out in the state who are value, without lawful consideration,
lured to the city by false promises j from a prostitute and from the earn
if an easy life. When they get to ings of her prostitution, or (0 who
the city ami find conditions differ-! shall receive or give or agree to re
enl from their expectations, they be-.reive or give, any money or other
rmne an easy prey for the panderer thing of value for procuring or al
and the other evil influences that are tempting to procure an inmate for a
linked up with this nefarious busi- h ou s of pnwtitulion. or (g)
ncss. jlm shall procure for another a per-
The Men's Federation of l.oiiis- son for the purpose of illicit sexual
ville stands ready to assist In the intercourse and shall directly or ln
prosecution of any of these cases directly receive therefor a considera-
that may come to the knowledge of
TW
our readers or const itnents.
are Interested in any matter that has
for ita object the conservation of for a term of not less than one nor
Mm morals of the young boys and more than five years,
girls of our slate, as they are the SF.C IT. If any part of the Acts
must valuable and biggest asset of mentioned in Section One of this Act
the state. I shall have been committed within
It Is an Act in relation to pander- this state, the ofTense may. in such
ing: to define and prohibit the same; ense, be deemed to have been eom
to provide for the punishment tlnre- milled, and the offender may be in-
f ; for the competency of certain
evidence, at and the venue of the. county in which any part of said of
trial therefor. fens,, shall have been committed.
Be It Enacted By the General SF.C. III. Any female person re.
Assembly of the Commonwealth ferred to in any of the foregoing Sec-
of Kentucky:
SF.C. I. Any person, who (V shall any prosecution under this Act. to
procure a female inmate for a house testify for or against the accused as
of prostitution, or (h) who shall by to any transaction, or as to any con
proiuise, threat, violence or by any rrsation with the accused, or by him
scheme or device cause, induce, per- with another person or persons in
snaile or encourage a female person i her presence, notwithstanding her
lo become or to remain an Inmate j having married the accused before
of a house of prostitution, or (c) who ( or after the violation of any of the
shall Induce, persuade or encourage provisions of this Ai t, w hether called
m f..,.,n1i nAMon ft jnniA Info thin As u-ttnesa finrinir tha pTlslonpa of
slate or to leave this state for the
purpose of iM'Coming an inmate of a
house of prostitution, or (dl who
shall knowingly transport or cause
to be transported, or aid or assist in
obtaining transportation for any
CONTENTS
PACE 1. Edjitorllal: The Shields
Small Bill. Senate Bill No. 316.
Our Own Slate News. United
Stall's News. World News.
PAGE X Departmental Columns.
PAGE 1 Serial: The Forester's
Daughter. Literature for Rural
Schools.
PAGE 4. Local.
PAVE ft. I,ocnl News Items. The
Civil War by J. W. VanWinkle.
PAGE ft. Mountain Agriculture:
Wildie Farmers, Johnetta Farm
ers, Corn irowing, Cincinnati
Markets. Cultivation of Corn.
Home Department Cake Recipes.
Ilousen and Health. For
Spring Weddings.
PAGE 7. International Sunday
School Lesson. Prizes for Home
Spun Fair. Letter from Persia
by Holla Hoffman of the Ameri
can Hospital. io to Sunday
School.
PAGE I. Kasleiu Kentucky News
Letters.
0et a Hobby.
Horace Greeley one said: "Young
anan. to West." I give ad rice aa vala
able and more easily followed: I say.
young maa, get a bobby; preferably
get two, one (or Indoors and one tor
out; get a pair of bobby horsae that
can safely be rtddea In oppoalte direc
tions A. Edward Newton, Is the At-laatle
mule person from one point within
this state to another point within
this state with the intent or purpose
of inducing, persuading or forcing
I said female to become an inmate of
n house of prostitution, or (e) who
re-Uhall knowingly accept or appropri-
lion shall lie guilty of pandering; and
.,.,. r,mvirin .hall hp n,.ni,hpd
I i ........ v
by imprisonment in the penitentiary
dieted, tried and convicted in anyi
tmti may lie a competent witness, in
'the marriage or after the dissolution
thereof. Provided, the provisions of
this Section shall not apply where
the parties have lived together as
j man and wife for a period of three
fe-lvenra or more.
The Farm Page this week Is full
of good and encouraging news for the
farmers. Things can he done if
they are only gotten after. Farm
ers must read and observe. Success
is sure to be theirs if they will only
do these two things. Why not read
these good things we call attention
to in The Citizen?
You cannot beat our World News
on this page. You get more in the
least space than you can find any
where. You will keep up with the
times, if you are a busy person and
unable to find time to read long ar
ticles, by reading the above-mentioned
news.
I
It is gratifying to hear how many
are enjoying the present serial The
Forester's Daughter." Read the syn
opsis up to date and finish the story
if you have not been reading it.
We call special attention to Sen
ate Bill No. 310 found in full in this
issue. We should be very grateful
that such is a law and that there are
those who are ready to put it into
force. Why nt help in this great
move against this terrible evil?
I 'Hie second Installment of Mr. Van-1
Winkle's "Civil War" narative will
be found in this issue. It is really'
history of our own neighborhood
never before in print. It will be'
worth while to clip and preserve for
our i nimren.
IN OUR OVN STATE
The Rev. E. O. flupfunt, a rcli-rd
Presbyterian minister, who has
spent mnrh if hid life ndv.inriiiif ed
ucation in tlio Kentucky Mountains,
died April 2fith at Douglas, Ga., on
his way home from Florida.
Industrial insurance rates were
considered Monday at a conference
in Frankfort between the Workmen's
Compensation Hoard and the Work
men's Compensation Service Bur
eau, the rate fixing organization of
the insurance companies.
Kentucky, under the Stale aid
plan, will spend approximately
fl.dOO.ono on rond improvement this
year, exclusive pf what the counties
will spend in order to secure the
State's assistance. Of 120 counties,
10,1 have asked for State and twenty-
five have their work tinder way.
Three counties have made applica
tion for convict labor.
Miss I.ula Blanton was killed
when in automobile in which she
was riding was halted late Saturday
night between Fleming and Neon in
Letcher county, by a man who walk
ed close to the far, took aim and
fired. James Thompson, who has
been attentive to Miss Blanton and
was with her early in the evening,
is under arrest at Whilesburg.
Successful Revival in Winchester.
Dr. Herbert Ye.iell. the evangr.
list, and Mr. Enrle Yearsley closed
a most successful revival at the
First Christian Church Monday
night. The meeting lasted four
weeks and large crowds attended ev
ery service.
Over eighty additions to the
church membership were welcomed
at the closing meeting.
The lecture by Dr. leuell on
"Ben Hur" at the Opera House
Tue lay night was enjoyed by
rrnwdod house. The pictures were
.:.. i LniL
beautiful and the lecture both
r 1 1
tertaining and instructive.
Rails Are Being Laid on the Bar
bonrville-Manchester Railway.
IWinninK at Barlwuirville the lay
ing of rails is now under way for
the new railroad. Steel rails suffi
cient to lay 18 miles are arriving
The grading force with steam shov
els are making rapid progress. The
greater part of the extension is now
ready for the rails. July 1 is the
date set for the completion of the
I line to the border of Clay county
The entire 21 miles will be eomplel
ed by the end of the year. F.stl
mates are now under consideration
of another extension of 18 miles to
the Red Bird Creek coal seams. This
project is being encouraged by va
rious coal men among whom Knox-
viiie interests control in.OOO acres
in that region.
I w,r,leM 8rvjce to be Installed Be
tween Harlan and Louisville
A special to the Louisville Post
says that wireless telegraph ser
vice Is proposed between Harlan
county coal fields and Louisville
by the Harlan Coal Mining Com
'pany, of Louisville, owners o
lu.ooo acres ami a n um h e r o
mining plants in Harlan county
Because of the handicap in quick
communication, due to the lack
of commercial telegraph scri
in (he coal fields. th H;irl.n Coal
Mining Company ha been work,
liuir out plans fur wireless ser-
ivice for some tini". and v w an
nounces (hat the proposed sys
tern will lie put in iperntion at
; once.
1 It is planned to hav receiving
instruments local "t on too i t tin
, Stalks office building. I.ouisvil't
The sending station will he a
Coxton. Harlan county, In the
Black Mountains. The distance
is 250 miles.
Mine Rescue Station For Bazard, Iy.,
Urged
Washington, April 21. To urge
the necessity of establishing
mine rescue station at Hazard,
Director Manning, of the Bureau
of Mines, appeared today before
a subcommittee of the House
Committee on Public Buildings
ami O rou nds, of which Rep re.
seutntive J. Campbell Cantrill Is
chairman. A bill for the estab
lishment or such a station was
introduced by Representative J.
W. Langley, who ia member of
Mr. Cantrill'i subcommittee. Di
rector Manning- pointed out the great
service the Government mine eta-
,joli( hwf) giwn tnJ tlrmgy
(h eH,aDi8nirM,nt of lucn g Nation
I at llaiard. Hazard Herald.
II, SJEWS
A hroVen rail caused a wreck on
the Norfolk & Western railway near
Roanoke, Va., Monday night, in which
a number, of persons were Injured,
three probably fatally.
Angered because workmen refused
to join their ranks, 5,000 striking
employes of the Westinghouse plants
forcibly entered the mills of four
ig steel plants at Rankin and Brad.
dork, Pa., attacked employes and
ranged much property damage.
TRENCH PERISCOPE.
" Canadian Treeae Leaking
: al Enemy Over the Meunde.
Photo by American Preae Aaaoctatlow.
NEW SPIRIT K01ILD
THRILL WORLDWILS:N
Voices Warning Nation's Honor
Will Be Maintained.
Washington. May I. President
Wilson has spoken to the country for
the first time on the gloriea Instead
of the horrors of war. In an address
before 600 women, who have volun
tarily entered camp at Chevy Chase
for a course of first aid Inxtru-tl n.
the president told of the suli itua' re
generation that he bell' " (1 vc:i",
come upon the United S ates -v ''
It be compelled to nia'e the (."ft
patriotic sacrifices entailed by r: r
ticipatlon In war.
"God forbid that we should be
drawn Into war." said the president,
with Impresiive solemnity, "but If
we should be, America would aeem
once mora to shake herself out of a
dream to aay, 'Did any man deem
that we were asleep? Did any man
deem that he could tamper with the
honor or the Integrity of the United
States?" and in the great voice of na
tional enthusiasm which would be
raised all the world would stand once
more thrilled to hear the voice of tha
new world asserting the standards of
justice and liberty."
In some quarter the apeerh waa
regarded to serve as further warn
ing to Germany, and had been planned
to prepare the country for the mo
mentous step the president will feel
obliged to take If one of the kalser'a
submarines sinks another ship la de
fiance of International law with loss
of American life.
WILL BOOST ANTHRACITE
Operators Announce Fixing of In
creased Cost to Consumer.
New York. May 1. While the dis
trict presidents of the anthracite
coal miners were placing their stamp
of approval on the contract which
will give a substantial wage Increase
and an eight hour day to 174.000 min
ers In the anthracite coal field, tbe
operators permitted the announce
ment to go forth that the prios of
coal will be raised sufficiently to
wipe out, so far aa they are con
cerned, the extra 110.000.000 or III.
000.000 that will have to be expended
ander the new contract In wages.
During the next week tbe heads of
the principal coal companies will
meet either here or la Philadelphia
and decide on a new scale of prices
which will become effective imme
diately. It has beta pretty reliably computed
that la the case of domestic coal tbe
oat will go up 40 coots a ton.
fit
m a
I
I. T. T. LINCOLN
British-German Arrtaud Hare
en Forgery Charge of English.
TORPEDO MISSED PATRIA
Second Attack by Submarine en
French Liner la Reported.
New York, May 2. The French
passenger ateamer Patria, which ar
rived here from Naples and Palermo,
reported that on her last outward
voyage she waa the target of a sub
marine torpedo attack in the Medi
terranean. The torpedo missed the
ahip by about ten feet, the officers
said.
The Patria at the time waa pass
ing Cape Spartavento, the southernly
part of Sardinia, and running at full
team. Tbe submarine did not show
itself, tbe officers said, and no perl
acope waa seen, but the torpedo's
wake waa risible and waa followed
after It passed the ship. Many of
the passengers on tha ship also said
they saw the torpedo's wake, accord
ing to the officers.
MEN SAVE GIRL FROM FALLS
Determined Upon Suicide Woman la
Dragged From Water.
Niagara Falls. May 2 Plunging
Into the torrent of tbe Niagara river,
twenty feet above the cataract, two
bystanders prevented Florence
O'Neill, a twenty-one-year-old Tona
wanda girt, from committing auiclde.
The young woman walked Into the
river opposite I.una Island, on the
government reservation, and resisted
the efforts of her rescuers who final
ly succeeded In bringing her to safe
ty. The girl was placed under arrest
TARRED VICTIM IS ANGRY
Doused With Tar and Feathers After
Receiving Warning.
ML Vernon. O., May I. If Samuel
Clark, age fifty-six, a Jackson town
ship farmer, who waa tarred and
feathered Is able to come to town
soon, he will swear out warrants for
the arrest of several men he believes
responsible for the tarring. Charlea
L. Bennont, prosecuting attorney,
considered calling a special aesslon of
the grand Jury to consider the case.
Clark Is In a serious condition. Tur
pentine applied to remove the heavy
coat of tar and made his flesh raw
all over his body. He saya he be
lieves neighbors with whom he had
trouble, are responsible for the affair.
He was called to the door of bis
borne in hi night clothea early In
the morning, seized, rolled In tar and
feathera applied.
Clark said he bad received a letter
Warning him to leave the vicinity In
ten days or he would be killed. "I
am going to stay." Clark laid.
FREIGHT TRAIN WAS RAIDED.
I Cumberland, Md. A freight train ou
1 the Western Maryland railway was
raided at Hampshire, W. Va., Just aft
er it had crossed the Potomac bridge
at Bloomington, Md. Tbo raid waa
conducted by Western Maryland offi
cers, assisted by Baltimore & Ohio de
tectives. Twenty men were arrested
and 15 are in jail at Keyser in default
of fine. They w ill be obliged to work
on tbe county roads for 30 days. Five
paid flues, while about 10 escaped lo
tbe darkness.
INCREASE OF $9,000,000 IN WAGES.
New York. Wage concessions
which would Increase the anthracite
ailuer'a payroll by approximately $9,
000,000 In the next four yeara, are of
fered la tbe tentative agreement reach
ed by a Joint subcommittee of opera
tore and aahiers( it waa learned.
WORLD HEWS
Both German people and Ameri
cans are patiently waiting the re
sult of a conference which has been
held between the German Emperor
and Ambassador Gerard. No infor
mation baa yet been received but
there seems to be hope that a settle
ment of the submarine problem mar
he reached.
Reports indicate that the Germans
have made some gains against the
Russians along the eastern frontier
of the war and have captured several
thousand prisoners. Russians, in the
meantime, continue to land in France
and strengthen the allies' position at
Verdun.
l'he English have surrendered lo
the Turks at Kut el Amara in the
valley of the Tigris after a seige of
more than four months. This has
not been entirely unexpected as pro
visions have given out and it has not
been possible to bring up a relief
force. About thirteen thousand men
are made prisoners of the Turks. Be
fore the surrender both arms and
ammunition were destroyed.
Serious riots have occurred in
Dublin during the week, instigated
by the revolutionary party in Ire
land. The postotTice was the object
of attack by the insurrectionists. .
Late reports say that the building
has been burned and over a hundred
killed by the English soldiers. Neith
er John Redmond nor Sir Edward
Carson, leaders of the Irish, favor
the movement, and it is believed to
be under control.
Secretary Lansing, of the depart
ment of State, has called attention to
the need of new rules of internation
al law to meet the new methods of
warfare. The submarine, the air
craft, the wireless telegraphy make
necessary the framing of rules. This
must not be done by any single na
tion of itself but by all the great
states of the world combined.
The most important event in our
relation with Mexico was the con
ference held between General Ob
regon, Mexican Minister of War and
Generals Scott and Funston, repre
senting the United States. So far
as is known little was accomplished
hv the meeting because the Mexican
general insisted on a fixed time for
withdrawing the American troops
and the American generals denied
the authority to treat on this point.
Another rumor is abroad to the ef
fect that the Mexican bandit leader
Villa is dead. This time it Js not
claimed that his body has been found
but it is claimed conclusive evidence
exists for the truth of the fact.
Americans will naturally be slow tj
accept any rumor of this kind.
FOUR GERMAN
ATTACKS FAIL
Powerful Onslaughts A;a!nst
Variun Smashed.
REPORT EN3RM0US LOSSES
French Aerial Squadrons Success
fully Raid Teuton Railway Statlona
South of Thiaucourt Russians Re
gain Lost Trenches From Austrlana
Paris, May 2. Four powerful
simultaneous attacks in close forma
tion were launched by the Germans
against the French position on the
west bank if , lit Meuse, one directed
agaiust the positions retaken by tha
French recently north of Dead Man's
hill, the three others against a
trench wres td from the Teutons two
days ago to the north of Cumierea.
All four onslaughts, according to the
war office statement, broke down
with "enormous losses' to the attack
ers. Although twice beaten back by the
French curtain of fire, and tbe terrific
fusilade from tbo defenders' machine
guns, tha Germans Infautrlsta were
aent Into a third attack north of
Cumieres, succeeded In galntag a
foothold In the coveted trench, but
war promptly driven out again with
heavy lossea.
Tha crown prince's heavy artillery
throughout tha day battered the
French positions oa Hill 304. wast of
tbe Meus( and theJinesaround-ya,ur
(CooUoued oa Peg Five) ,
