THE OPTIMIST GIVES 2000 PONY VOTES ON EVERY YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION
The- Blackfoot Optimist
VOL. IX. NO. 23
BLACKFOOT. BINGHAM COUNTY. IDAHO. THURSDAY. MAY 4,1916
$2.00 PER YEAR
"DAD" CLAY
IS CONVICTED
The case of the State vs. J. C. Clay,
of Idaho Falls, charged with unlawful
and reckless auto driving on Palm Sun
day, when he collided with several
autos on the road near Firth, occupied
several days and an evening's time
of the probate court this week before a
jury of twelve men, and resulted in a
verdict of guilty as charged. The case
was ably conducted by County Attor
ney Adair and Attorney John Jones for
the prosecution, West Holden being the
attorney for the defense. Judge Dom»
fined the auto defendant $50 and costs,
which will amount to considerable, ns
both sides had an array of witnesses.
It is reported that the case is to be
appealed.
We are informed that Fred Nelson
and Ben Sage, the two victims of the
Accident whose relatives received bod
ily injuries in the collision, and whose
cars were wrecked, will bring civil ac
tions against Mr. Clay for damages.
"THE TIME, THE PLACE, AND THE
GIRL."
The musical comedy selected for the
third offering at the Orpheum by the
LaSalle Musical Comedy Company on
next Thursday will be "The Time, the
Place, and the Girl," a real musical
comedy played by a real company of
musical comedy players. " The Time,
the Place and the Girl" is the joint
work of Hough and Adams, who have
twenty-two successful musical comedies
to their credit, and this big girl show
is their crowning effort. Their work
has been musically scored by Joseph
Howard, whose catchy tunes are fam
iliar to all lovers of music.
The LaSalle company will give to
this IIough-Adains-Howard creation an
elaborate scenic production, together
with costuming effects that are gor
geous ^ul up to the minute in design.
Seldom have Blackfoot people an op
portunity to see the class of attraction
offered by the LaSa.te company at any
price, and it goes without saying that
they will undoubtedly take advantage
of this chance to see the greatest of all
La Salle Theatre, Chicago, plays, and
will engage their seats now.
i
IRISH LEADERS SHOT.
A London dispatch of May 3 states
that three signers of the republican
proclamation in Ireland were court
martialed and shot on Wednesday, and
three other signers were sentenced to
three years imprisonment. Among
those shot were Patrick H. l'earse,
self-styled "provisional president of
Ireland."
The known signers were Thomas J
Clark, S. McDiarnmd, Thomas Mae
Donaugh, P. H. I'earse, Joseph Plunk
ett. E. Ceant, and James Connolly.
Tho latter was "commandant gen
eral of the Irish republican army," ami
also was shot.
Clark and MacDonaugh were likewise
executed.
CHICAGO PACKERS GUILTY—
MAY BE FINED $525,000.
Swift & Co., Chicago packers, were,
yesterday found guilty by a federal
jury on twenty-nine counts of an in
dictment charging violations of the in
ter-state commerce laws. The maxi
mum penalty is $525,000. It is alleged
that tin' company shipped in carloai
lots and rated number of shipments less
than carloads.
O RPHEUM
Thurs. May 11th.
THE LA SALLE MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
PRESENTS
The Greatest of all Musical Comedies
The Time
The Place and
The Girl
THE SNAPPIEST OF ALL LA SALLE
THEATRE CHICAGO SUCCESSES.
Pretty
SONGS
DANCES
GIRLS
OC Clever
People
Better Reserve Your Seat Now!
CARBON HOUSE BOLD.
Levi Jones, of the Salmon river coun
try, last Monday bought the Carson
House, real estate and all, for which he
paid $16,000. Mr. Jones is a brother
of Mrs. Abbie Stewart, who conducts
the lodging house over the First Na
tional Bank, and the latter will conduct
the Carson House in connection with
her present business until her brother
returns from a visit east. Mrs. Carson
will build or buy a residence in Black
foot. The sale of the property was
made by the Parkinson Realty Co.
WEALTHY OGDEN PHYSICIAN AS
SASSINATED.
Dr. C. jF. Osgood, reputed to be the
wealthiest physician of Ogden, Utah,
was hot and instantly killed while sit
ting in his automobile in front of the
Commercial National Bank at 6 o'clock
Wednesday evening by Herbert Burch.
The physician was at the wheel of his
machine and was in the act of starting
it when Burfti stepped from the door
way of the bank and opened fire. He
shot three times, and each of the shots
took effect in the right side, penetrating
the region of the heart.
Burch then gave himself up to Rob
ert Paine, a special officer. In the jail
he declared that he had had a grudge
against Dr. Osgood since 1894, when
Burch claims the physician operated
on his head in a St. Louis hospital, and
that as a result of the operation "his
head had been damaged.";
MRS. C. A. HOOVER ENTERTAINS.
Mrs. C. A. Hoover entertained la
number of friends at a bridge party
Monday afternoon, at her home on
North Stout avenue. There were two
tables, and those present were Mrs. W.
E. Patrie, Mrs. F. J. Cowân, Mrs. Clias.
Hart, Mrs. Neil F. Boyle, Mrs. Poynter,
Mrs. Brennan and Mrs. C. Harris. A
dainty luncheon was served, and all
present spent a pleasant afternoon.
WOMEN KILLED WHILE
ASKING FOR PEACE.
A report from Amsterdam, Holland,
was published in the daily papers yes
terday to the effect that German wo
men were clamoring for peace in Ber
lin and elsewhere in Germany, and that
many arrests had been made. Two
women were wounded at Chemnitz, in
Saxony. In the food riots in Leipsic,
the police killed three. All told, twen
ty-five are reported killed and two
hundred wounded.
RINGLING IN JAIL.
A1 Ringling, who came very near buy
ing a thousand acres near Pocatello a
short time ago for winter circus quar
ters and who was also in trouble at
Blackfoot, ami later was arrested here
for passing a bail check, was up this
morning for preliminary trial before the
probate court. He, after some hesita
tion, waived preliminary• trial and was
bound over to the next term of the dis
trict court. His bon. I was fixed at one
thousand dollars.
The officers believe that Ringling 's
mind must be affected. He has written
to the German ambassador about his
case stating that he is a German.subject
but he can hardly speak a word of Ger
man. He also.says that he will appeal
to President Joseph Smith of the Latter
Day Saint church if he is not released
at once.
The Bee Hive Girls met Tuesdav
evening at the home of Miss Anna
TIeese. A pleasant evening was spent,
and a dainty lunch served. The girls
will meet again Monday evening at the
church.
Bond Election
Next Tuesday
Next Tuesday, May 9, the people of
Blackfoot will hold a special election
to vote intersection street paving bonds
to the amount of $22,250, bearing in
terest not to exceed 6 per cent. These
bonds' will not have to be paid for ten
years, making the obligation very light
on the individual taxpayer.
These bonds will not necessarily be
issued for the full amount voted, but
only for the contract price of the work,
such amount to be determined at the
time the bids are opened, May 15.
The proposed bonds are only to cover
the cost of paving the streets and al
ley intersections, which amount to only
20 per cent of the cost of the street
paving, which is to be paid by tho
abutting property owner.
The state law requires that funds for
this work be available before being
appropriated, hence the urgent need for
everybody to boost and vote for the
bonds.
At the election Tuesday everybody
should work and vote for the bonds,
as the city is on the eve of material
advancement if this improvement is
madç.
The matter of the bond election cn
Tuesday, May 9, should be thoroughly
understood by the voters of Blackfoot,
and for fear there are some who are not
properly informed, it should be stated
that this election is not upon the ques
S0L0NS DEFER
CARNEGIE'S OFFER
The city council held a regular meet
ing Tuesday night, with a quorum pres
ent and Mayor Peck presiding.
The following bills were read and al
lowed, but payment of several of them
were deferred for further investigation -
Southern Idaho Water Power
Co..... .............................. $232.00
E. M. Mahan ................................ 15.00
Southern Idaho Water Power
Co........................................2.25
P. S. Fisher .................................... 45.00
J. M. Tilden .................................. 2.70
W. H. Grosclose ............................ 80.00
W. F. Lowe .................................... 33.48
White Transfer Co..................... 2.00
Max Smith ..................*................ 9.90
D. L. O'Neil ................;............... 177.50
C. J. Hughes ................................ 47.35
Idaho Lumber Co......................... 29.11
Mountain States T. & T. Co..... 1.25
Abe Scott ..................................... 30.00
J. M. Perry .................................... 1.75
N. F. Boyle & Co......................... 16.35
N. F. Boyle & Co........... 2.80
W. T. Brown ................................ 60.00
C. F. McKinley ............................ 54.40
Arthur Smith ................................ 17.50
P. E. Deeters ................................ 12.28
Mr. Bischoff ................................ 20.90
Optimist ........................................ 29.82
J. E. Smith .................................... 78.90
Herbert A. Hall ............................ 11.25
Clarence Neider ............................ 23.00
Lewis Taylor .......... 44.50
Russell Sewell ................................ 90.00
Markus Blenkle .......................... 18.90
Hiram Allen .................................. 8.95
Paul Hong ...................................... 2.20
The council has decided to take no
further action in promoting a $ 10,000
Carnegie-library in Blackfoot, as there
are more urgent and beneficial improve
ments commenced that should be fin
ished first.
The city attorney was requested to
advise the city council whether the city
water works company could legally
maintain their water pipes above the
sidewalk grades.
The matter of hiring a man to take
charge of the cemetery was referred
to a committee with power to act.
They have a choice between a $40 a
month man and a $60 a month man,
and the V. I. S. ladies seem to favor
the cheaper man if he will sleep at the
cemetery.
James Martin still refuses to move
liis hog yard from the Fair grounds, as
ordered to do several weeks ago by
the council, who declared it a public
nuisance. He contends that the hog
yard maintained by'Councilman Thomp
son and the stockyards maintained by
the Oregon Short Line railroad are
greater and more objectionable nuis
ances than his hog yard, which he will
not abate until other nuisances are also
prohibited. •
It was moved and carried that the
special improvement bonds for street
intersections be advertised two weeks
and sold May 12.
Mrs. J. O. Morgan, on behalf of tin,
Parent-Teacher Association, who plan
to have scholars clean up the vacant
lots of the city, asked if the council
would remove the debris thus collect
ed, and while no definite action was
taken on the matter, the council seemed
willing to do so.
The following building permits were
granted: To N. F. Boyle, J. E. Jones,
Idaho Lumber Company, L. B. Dore,
and David Neelan.
The following collections were report
ed for the month of May: Police
Judge Good, $30; Chief of Police Sew
ell, $81.50. The chief of police report
ed that 70 dogs had been slaughtered
since April 5.
Ray Ragan, G. H. Hansbrough, T. J.
Ragan, C. F. Hendrie and Mrs. Ruth
T. Hilliard have petitioned for sewer
connection with their residences.
Adjourned to meet May 10. i
tion of paving, but is upon the mannci
of paying for the city 's portion of
the work, which is the cost of the
street intersections only. The ordi
nance creating the paving district has
already passed the city council, and the
paving is assured.
There are two ways, however, in
which the city can pay for its portion
of the work. One is by direct levy,
which will pay the cost out of the gen
eral fund. Because of the limitations
imposed by the law upon the city coun
cH, only a portion of this money can
be raised this year, and therefore only
a portion of the intersections can bo
constructed, leaving the balance to be
completed and paid for next year.
The other and logieal manner of
handling the matter is by a general
bond issue covering a period -of ten
or twenty years, as the council may
elect. This method will enable the
council to proceed with the work and
complete it this year, and w'ill give the
city ten or twenty years in which to
pay for it, instead of two.
It remains for the people to decide
which of these methods they prefer.
If they desire to bond the city in pref
erence to paying the cost by direct levy,
they should keep in mind that a two
thirds vote is required to carry the
election, and not depend upon
' ' George ' ' to do it. ' ' Get out and
vote.
YELLOWSTONE
SALT LAKE ROAD
Idaho Falls, May 5.—"The success
of the movement to put the route from
Salt Lake to Yellowstone on the world
auto map and to make it the best high
way into the park," said Secretary C.
C. Dietrich of the highway assocition,
' '/is now absolutely assured. The only
thing which I have been afraid of was
that the weather conditions would not
ptnmit us to get started at the work
on the new- sectio nof the route in
the Targhee forest, but Friday morn
ing I received word from Judge Jack
son, of Fremont county, that Mrs. E.
H. Harriman and her associates on the
big Island Park Railroad ranch have
agreed to assist the forest service and
the county of Fremont in the construc
tion of that portion of the highway,
and that we will have the route open
in time for this season's travel. This
will be a great drawing card for our
route, as it takes the tourist by Warm
River canyon and the two upper falls
'of the Henry's or North Fork of the
Snake, and across Bear Gulch, avoid
ing all the bad hills and chuck holes of
the western route." ^
The highway from the Bingham coun
ty line to Salt Lake is already in al
most perfect condition for automobile
travel on the Malad and Logan routes,
nud while no definite information as to
the Bear Lake route has been received,
it is expected that, this additional scen
ic attraction will be open for travel in
time for park traffic. The commission
ers of this county have arranged to
grade the road wherever necessary be
tween the south county line and tlcon,
via Bcachy's corner, and to construct
I he highway up the railrad track from
Ucon to the county line to connect with
•Jefferson county, and to keep the road
dragged at tho proper time. The same
arrangement has boon made in Jeffer
son county.
This announcement has been made
after a month's stimulons campaign,
which has been carried on by the asso
ciation to complete the highway for
'use by June 1 to the Park, and is, no
doubt, only given out after a thorough
canvass of the situation.
Over 5,000 ears are expected to use
the highway this summer, and aside
from the great advantage of the high
way locally, it will without question
be a large advertising feature in at
tracting capital and people to this sec
tion of Idaho. ^
!
!
I
ANOTHER WATCH TO BE GIVEN
AWAY.
Another count of votes in the pony
contest will take place next Saturday,
and next Wednesday another beautiful
watch will be given to the contestant
having the largest number of votes,
and you still have a chance for a
prize. Don't forget the kind, lovable
little Shetland Pony wants some girl or
boy to claim him for their very own.
Grown-ups, get busy and back up some
ambitions girl or boy. Make them hap
py by giving them your pony votes. It
costs you no more to trade at the Pony
Stores and your votes will be apprecia
ted and long remembered. You were a
child once. Get pony votes at:—
Powers' Pharmacy, the Santox store.
The Hoffman Tailoring Co., $15.00
suits.
Blackfoot Farmers' Milling Co.
Pearson ft Co., the grocers.
Central Meat Market, the Quality
Shop.
F. C. Christ, the jeweler.
N. F. Boyle ft Co., hardware.
Standrod & Co., bankers.
Hepdrie Implement Co., farm impie
ments.
E.-ft G. Bills. Auto Co., repairing.
The Brown-Hart Co., the big out
fitters.
The Isis, quality pictures and vaude
ville.
PARENT-TEACHER MEET TOMOR
ROW.
The Parent-Teacher Association will
•neet at the High School at 4 P. M.
Friday, May 5. Mrs. Mae Roberts will
•ipeak on the subject, "The Physical
ind Ethical Value of Athletics." An
Open discussion will follow. The mus
ical numbers of this meeting will be
furnished by some of the little folks.
Theron Carruth will sing, and Miriam
Pearson will render a piano number,
and little Annie Hopkins a vocal solo.
Anyone having queries for the ques
tion box wBl please hand them to tho
secretary before the meeting. A largo
attendance is especially desired.
BROTHER AND SISTER REUNITED.
Mrs. Abbie Priestly and her brother,
Levi Jones, had a joyful meeting in
Blackfoot several days ago. Mrs.
Priestly had not seen her brother for
forty-eight years, they having parted
in Ogden about that time when Mr.
Jones was but 8 years old. Mr. Jones
has bought the Carson house, and with
his family will make Blackfoot his fu
ture home.
JAPANESE TEA A SUCCESS.
The Japanese tea given in the pai
lors of the Baptist church last Saturday
was well attended. There were eight
booths, and Mrs. E. A. Jones presided
over them.
BETTER THAN BEER.
Several weeks ago our neighboring
town of Riverside was the scene of nu
merous jugs of an unknown origin. De
tective Chamberlain took the case in
hand and traced the origin of the mys
terious sprees to a very murky cider al
leged to have been made and sold by
L. D. Wilson, a very prominent River
sider. The detective secured n bottle
of the popular cider and sent it to the
state chemist, whose analysis showed
it to contain almost 6 per eent alco
hol, which is 3 per cent more stimulants
than beer contains. We are informed
by the county attorney that a warrant
has been issued for the alleged cider
merchant.
BUSINESS MEN DINE TONIGHT.
The business men 's dinner that was
to be served at 6:30 in the V. I. S.
rooms this evening has been changed to
the basement of the Baptist church,
where more room has been provided.
The attraction will be a boneless chick
en supper, served by Manager Haines
of the Cottage Hotel, and :i large at
tendance of boosters is expected and
desired to be in attendance.
AUTO THIEVES CAUGHT.
Late Saturday night thieves entered
the painting room in the shops of the
Ramlall-Dodd Auto company at Salt
Lake, and made away with a new model
! Buick automobile. Word was sent over
the country announcing the theft, to
gether with the description and number
! of the car. Monday night a machine
I answering the description was found
standing in the road between Blackfoot
jaiul Idaho Falls, and the men driving it
were soon located hunting for gasoline
An officer identified the car by the no.,
and both machine and men were taken
to Idaho Falls. They will be returned
to Salt Lake city for hearing
Judge O. E. McOuteheon is reported
to bo very ill at Los Angeles, Califor
nia. His son, Otto, received word to
that effect last night and left for there
at once to be with his father.
j
Protection and Privacy.
N OT ONLY ARE IMPORTANT
papers and deeds absolutely pro
tected from destruction by fire or
theft when placed in our vaults but
they are safe from scrutiny by curious
or designing individuals.
Our excellent facilities and alert,
courteous service are at all times at
patrons' disposal.
Our officers will be jdeased to bave
you call and inspect our modern and
complete equipment.
Consult, us in all commercial bank
ing matters.
D. W. Standrod & Co.
Bankers
BLACKFOOT
IDAHO
J
BREAK IN PIPE
SOON REPAIRED
Lnst Monday the column pipe in the
Blackfoot A'ater Company's well broke,
which put their big pump out of com
mission, and the compnnv was com
pelled to start their two smaller pumps
to supply the necessary water for do
mestic purposes. Six men were imme
diately put to work might and day re
pairing the damaged column pipe and
sinking a new well, where a new pump
was installod, and by noon yesterday
the city was again enjoying an abund
ant supply of water.
A representative of an eastern pump
manufacturing house was in Blackfoot
a few days ago and received from tho
water company an order for two large
centrifugal pumps, which will be in
stalled as soon as possible, and with
these, the fifth well just sunk and the
new reservoir completed, Blackfoot will
have a water system adequate for fire
nml domestic purposes unsurpassed by
any city in Idaho twice its size.
While the two days of water shortage
caused very little inconvenience, and
fortunately no injury, it was the cause
of giving the city an enlarged water
system that will supply an abundance
of water for all purposes for years tb
come.
AUTO AND BICYCLE COLLIDE.
Last Monday, afternoon Mrs. Ö. L.
Reece and her auto collided with Rob
ert Boiee and his bike on tho corner of
Shilling avenue, and Court street, the
latter being knocked down and one of
his ribs fractured. The lady in the
auto escaped uninjured. There seems
to he a decided difference of opinion
as to who is responsible for the acci
dent. Mrs. Reece is known as a very
careful and experienced driver and the
last nutoist any one would predict to
have an accident.
STATE OFFICIAL TO RETIRE.
Miss Bernice McCoy, state Superin
tendent of publie instruction, has an
nounced that she will retire from public
life nt the close of her present term of
office, and that she will enter Columbia
at that time to take a post graduate
course in school administration.
Miss McCoy was elected superintend
ent in 1914 to succeed Miss Grace M.
Shepherd, and has served the state
with the understanding that her office
was to be abolished bv constitutional
amendment, and the duties transferred
to the commissioner under the stato
board of education. Miss McCoy has
worked through her administration in
harmony with this idea.
The constitutional amendment is to
be voted on at the next general elec
tion. In the meantime it will be nec
essary to elect a superintendent to servo
until the amendment becomes effective,
if it carries at. the polls.
No intimation has come from any
quarter as yet as to whom either tho
Republicans or Democrats will offer
for the position Miss MeCov now holds.
The importance of the office is much
greater because of the fact that tho
superintendent of public iusetruction is
a member of the state land board.
The first days of Dr. Gaumer's auto
mohiling seem to lie fraught with
strange accidents. Yesterday morning
j his foot slipped off' the dutch and he
had a head-on collision with D. L.
O'Neil's auto in front of the Kinney
store. During the afternoon of the
same day he took a fall out of a man
in front of the postoffice. Fortunately
the pedestrian escaped unhurt.
