-....tfVtTrmrr rwrt r-w. M. m.
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, MAY 4, 1916.
NUMBER 45.
1 NY'S REPLY
MAY BE EXPECTED
AT ANY MOMENT
Expected Document Is Likely
to Be Handed to American
Embassy To-day.
NOTE WILL BE
DEFINITIVE
IRISH REBELLION
LEADERS SUMMARILY
TRIED AND EXECUTED
Those Executed Were Patrick H. Pearse, James
Connolly, Thomas MacDonagTi and Thomas
J. Clark, All Well Known in United States
Casement Will Be Tried with Utmost Expedi
tion Birrell, Chief Secretary for Ireland,
Resigns.
COMPULSION BILL
1
HAS 1ST BEAD!
IN PARLIAMENT
German Attitude Will lie Ex
pressed in Clear and Precise
Terms Leaving No Rom for
Doubt As to Exact. Position of
Teutons.
licrlin, Mny 3. (by wireless :n the Asso-
elated Press vlii Snyvillol Tlio Gorman
li'Ply t(i tho American unto on submarine
waifarc may he expected momentarily.
Jl now appears, however, that Thursday
may lie the day on which It will ho hand
ed to the American embassy.
Following the submission of the Gor
man reply the renter of gravity in the
t nation. It Is considered here, will rest
In Washington where It tnnst be decided
whether the proposal which Germany
make:) meets the conditions of the last
r.aiagraph of the. American note
The attitude of Germany will bo staled
In clear and ptciise terms. The note will
leave no room for donbt concerning the
exact position assume,! by Germany,
which will communicate the dellnlto na
t ire of Instructions Mint will be given to
Fubmarino commanders and other data
DU which w asnmgion nscu can juukb mo
fltuation.
The Associated Pi ess Is permitted to
make these statements, although the cen
sorship on despatches tending to reveal
he tenor of the. German reply Is still ef
fective Washington. May :i. Pi evident Wll-
"ii, Secretary Lansing and Cnl. K. M.
House held a Ions conference to-night
M the White House. It Is undeistood
Ihe suhmarine situation was discussed,
hut Secretary lousing said later be had
jecelved absolutely no word fiom Hcr
lln recardln.i the character of the Ger-
mnn note, which press dispatches said
pro ha hi will tie handed to Ambassador
Gerard to-morrow.
The President and his advisers are
keeping their minds open while they
n ilt for the German note. The long
d lay evidently has created a bad im
piession, however, mid it war. nuthnil-
ta'lvely stated to-day that the Issue
would have to be cleared up this week
If diplomatic lelatlons wltli Germany
vi re to continue.
The I'n sident Is known to be unalter
fibly determined to adhere strictly to
t in position assumed by Iho United
P'.'iles In Its demand that Germany tin
i edlately declare and effect an nban
i oumcnt of its piesent methods of sub
marine warfare.
No proposal of any kind will bo ac
cepted by the Ameilcan government, ft
Is said, unless It Includes a declaration
of intention to stop sinking peaceful
ships at once. In this connection press
dispatches to the effect that new orders
to submarine commanders would bo
told of in the German note, were reaft
with interest by officials, but comment
was withheld ponding the disclosure or
Ihe nature of the Instructions.
Colonel House, who discussed the sun
narino. issue with German officials
able abroad for the President several
lonlhs ago, nrriwd ltoro this morning.
HEARS TWO CARES.
London, May ".--The announcement
In tho Mouse of Commons to-day by the
prime minister that the leaders In the
lebelllon In Ireland had been court
niiirtlaled and summarily executed
I created a profound feeling, although
this action by tho government was
expected.
Premier Asqulth, at the &aino time,
announced that Sir Rogoi Cibeniciit,
one of the prime movers In tho upris
ing and now a prisoner In tho Tower
of London, would be tried with the
utmost expedition.
'Augustine lllrrell made a brief state
ment and admitted his error, as chief
secretary for li eland. In underestimat
ing the Sinn Fein movement, adding
that when be was infoimcd that thu
Insurrection had been put down he had
tendered his resignation to the prime
minister anil that it had been ac
cepted, .Inlui Ucdmond. leader of the Irih
parliamentary patty, begged the govern
ment to be lenient with the great mas"
of thoso itnolved in the revolt, and said
he was partly to hlamo for Mr. Hindi's
earlier complacency tcspcctlng conditions
In Ireland, as he had concurred in the
tecrelary's view that the danger of ,u
out bleak was not a leal one.
TIIOSK WHO WT.r.K SHOT.
Tho lebelllon leaders shot were Patrick
II. Pcitii-e. "provisional president "f
Ireland", .lames Connolly, styled com-mnndanl-goneral
of the Irish republican
army, and Thomas J- Clark and Thnmn-j
MaoDonngh, signatories of the republican
proclamation.
Patrick II. Pearse, the "pro' Isional
president of Ireland," was about ."'! or 'I
years of and was known In Ireland
as an authority on Gaelic literature. Ho
was a barrister hut devoted most of ills
time to literary and educational i insults
Tor some time he was ulltor of the
Gaelic Journal in Dublin and luler found
ed St. Hildas school, which he conducted
up to the time of the Sinn Kcln lebelllon.
Poarso had many friends In the I'ni
ted States. He lectured In this coun
try on Irish ideals and Gaelic llteia
ture, the proceeds of his lecture going
to the support of his school.
The head of tho Sinn Fein rebellion
was the son of an Ungllshman, but was
himself horn and educated in Dublin.
lb' was unmarried.
.lames Connolly lived for several
years In New York, whore he was ac
tlco as a socialist and labor agitator.
Ho returned to Ireland about live years
ago to aid In organizing the Irish La
bor party. Connolly was about fifty
years of age, and was self-educated.
He was the author of a book entitled
"Labor in Irish History." published in
Dublin, and was editor of a labor pa
per In that city willed "The Irish Work
er." He was the father of eight chil
dren, all of whom survive him, as well
as his widow.
Thomas M'aoDonagh was a close asso
ciate of Poarse's and a highly educated
man. lie was for some time assistant
professor of Knglish literature in the
National University of Ireland, but re
sidled to become assistant to Pearse In
the St. Hildas schoul.
Thomas J. Claik was , ,n ,. nf the lead
ers in the Fenian conspiracy of the
early eighties. He wan arrested anil
sentenced fP Imprisonment, but was
released after serving 14 years. After
America ho returned
lie opened a tobacco
'lark married the daughter "f
lolin Daly of Limotlek, another
survived
Passage Is Loudly Cheered in
House of Commons Debate
Reveals No Serious Opposition
to Measure.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.; T
NEWS BY COm:WSS
ROOPS RECALLED
MIDDLE BURY.
MAY INCLUDE IRELAND
a short visit to
to Dublin, wlcre
store.
Mayor
of the Fcnl.m lendeis. I In Is
by the widow and four boyu.
CALLS HIUT1SH "HUNS."
Lain once Glunell, member for the north
division of Westmealb, who is classed as
a nationalist, but follows tho leadership
of no parly, erected the announcement
of the picmler Hint some of the leaders
of the Irish rebellion had been shot, with
tho cry of "Huns!" For some minutes
ho prevented Mr. Hindi from making a
personal statement, and gave notice that
he Mould move a resolution directing at
tention to the shooting of "innocent men
b this llunnlsh government."
.Mr. lllrrell, when he got a hearing, said
lie would have an opportunity as a pri
vate member of taking part in tho debate
on the Irish rising.
ISIKKi: LI ,'S COX FUSS ION.
llo candldlv admitted that had made
an untrue estimate or the Sinn Fein move
ment and the possibility of disturbances
nucli as had occurred in Dublin, rspecial
Iv In rc-peel to the mode, of warfaro
which hud been pursued and the des
perate folly displayed by the leaders and
Iheir dupes. Therefore, at the moment
he learned from Gen. Sir John Maxwell
that tho insurrection had been iiucllod
he placed his resignation In the hands of
Ihe prima minister and It bail been ac
cepted. He wished to say in his critics that
the error, which he acknowledged and
which had been of great and teriible
lonsoqiicuro.s, had not pioceedcd from
i any men u thought, consideration or
. anxiety. From thu outbreak of the war
I he took It to be only bis duty to matn
i tain unbroken and unimpaired, If pns
' sible, the position of Ireland as a whole
to the common foe. in that hope and
I aim he had been gallantly assisted by
Mr. Itcdmond. He thought of nothing
else, rated for nothing else, wished for
nothing else.
It had been said in the House, con
tinued the former secretary, that Ire
land was to be the bright spot in the
empire in the hour of the country's dlie
necessity. He hoped It might even yet
stll' be said to be so.
I he prime minister, in making note of
I Mr. Hlnell's statement, said that, wlth
I out prejudging the derision which might
ultimately he taken, he was sure the
I house had heard Mr. lllrrell not with-
out emotion ami sympathy, and lie ns
i silted Mr. lllrrell that he possessed In a
I peculiar ib'gri o the affection of all hh
I colli agues.
UUD.MOND'S TUIBUTi: TO TilRRF.LL.
Mr. Redmond said that the whole busi
ness in Ireland bad bien to him a
misery and a Ileal tbreak. He paid warm
tribute, to M-. Hkrell. llo felt that lie
himself had incinrcd some of tho blame
which Mr. Ulrrell had laid at his owi
door.
The nationalist bailor concurred in th
view that Hie danger of an outbreak w,i
not a n al one, and perhaps what lie had
said in conversation might have in
llueiicfd Mr. lllrrell.
While appiovlng tho
of the rebellion, Mr.
the government not
harshness to "the si eat mass of the uu
fortunate dupes Involved."
Premier Asquith Announces
That Youths Reaching the Age
of Eighteen Will Be Given a
Month's Grace to Enlist Voluntarily.
London, May " The governments
military bill for Immediate general com
pulsion passed Its lirst reading In the
House of Commons to-day. Its passage
wan loudly cheered.
The debate revealed no serious opposi
tion to the compulsion bill. The only
Intciestlng point was the suggestion by
Colonel Craig that Ireland should be In
cluded. Walter Hume Long, president of the
local government board, sponsor for the
bill, replied to this suggestion that
there was no objection It the nation
alist members approved the idea and It
found an echo in Ireland.
Premier Asiiultb said youths reaching
tlie age of IS would receive a month's
grace to enlist voluntarily. The same
exemptions would be given as under the
original bill.
special reserve will be formed of
men continuing In civil employment, who
will be Immediately available for serv
ice In case of emergency.
George Nicoll Harnes, one of the
labor leaders In the House, expressed
strong approval of the measute. He
said that If the country bad known tho
task In front of the allies is months
ago It would have accepted compulsory
service then.
FUNERAL OF DR. STEVENS.
Well-
vigorous ipielllmt
iiedmond begged
to show undue
Miprrme Court Will Take I'p Ctilttcii
den Comity Cnxen ct.
Montpeller, May .".The supremo court
to-day heard two Caledonia county cases.
Gilmnn Hrothers v?. Austin T, Booth,
jreneral and special .assumpsit, was taken
ip. rorter, Wlttors and Harvoy appoar
for tho plaintiff and Donoway, Dun
flett and Shields for the defend
Bin. Jennln M. Kplnncy, adminis
tratrix, vh. O. V. Hooker A- Son,
i.egllgence, was tho other enso. Tho plain
tiff secured a verdict of $i,ono In tho lower
court. Porter, Witters and Harvey ap
pear for tho plaintiff and ISlodgett and
Itcdmond for tho defendant. Tho caso of
Leon Dane vs. Neoma Ileau, also of Cale
donia county, was stricken off
Chittenden county case will he taken up
next, that of Adelaide It. Hill vs. the
Durlliigton Traction company, negllgenco,
jelng flrnt
STOLE AFFECTIONS.
LIBRARIANS MEET.
Vrnllct Prof,
PITTSBURG TRACTION
STRIKE SETTLED
llnllviay Compnny Accede to Demand
for Wngrc IncrcnHe,
Pittsburg, Slay 2, Thirty-two hundred
motormen and conductors of tho Pitta
burg Hallway company this afternoon
ratllled a wage agreement recommended
by their leaders after conferences last
nislit wl h olllcers of the company and
bur mess men. Half an hour afterward
the ilrst tar hud left tho barn nearest the
labor temple, whero the ratlllcatlon meet
ing was held, nnd to-night the service
Kuspended Inst Sunday til mldnlg-ht had
become, normal.
Tho new agreement rims two years.
25.000 WANT G. O. P.
CONVENTION TICKETS
milk C. Phelps Cits if2,.Vtl
from Clinrlc I'tlcy.
Montpeller, May -A verdict for the
plalntllf, Frank C Phelps of Cabot, to
lecover $2,5-11 from Charles Utley, former
ly of Cabot, now of Ilardwlck, a lumber
manufacturer, has been returned In
Washington county court. The plaintiff's
attorneys moved for tho execution of a
certified judgment on tho vordlct. At
torneys for tho defendant gavo no Indica
tion that the case would bo taken to
supremo court on exceptions.
Phelps sued Utley for $10,000 for aliena
tion of his wife's affections, the case oc
cupying llvo full days in trial. Much of
tho ovidnnco was contradictory, the de
fendant attempting to establish alibis on
dates when It was alleged that ho was
In the company of Mrs. Phelps.
36 CASUALTIES IN
ZEPPELIN RAID
Chicago, May 2. Twenty-flvo thousand
"pplleations for tickets to tho republican
national convention hero Juno 7 liavo nl
ready been received, it was learned to
day. Not more than 10,000 of these re
iiiests can bo granted, according to Kied
W I'plinni, chairman of tho Chicago ar
rangements committee, nnd It la said pref
erence will bo given to the subscribers
!o tho fund that was raised to bring tho
convention to Chicago.
Mne People Killed Sen Plane Italdt
Const of Ileal.
London, May . The Zeppelin air raid
on tho northeast coast of ICngland and
southeast coast of Scotland last night
resulted in 31 casualties. Six men and
threo women wore killed. This an
nouncement was made officially to-day.
One hundred bombs wero dropped.
A German seaplane this afternoon
made an air raid on Deal. No fatali
ties resulted, but two persons wero in
jured. The official statement concern
ing tho raid says Mm windows of a
church wero broken, tho roof of a hoiim
blown ort and a public houso seriously
damaged. Altogether seven bombs wero
dropped. Tho Injured persons wero a
mnn and a woman.
Tho aeroplane approached Deal from
tho direction of Ramsgato and after
dropping tho bombs retreated, pursued
by liritish air craft.
N, P. llnierNon nmoiiK Mtcnken nt
Hiitluml County Gathering.
Kntlitnd, May I!. A round table con
ference of tho llhiarlans of Huthind
county was held at the Frc Public library
building to-day, commencing at lft;ftj a, in.
The meeting was called to order by Miss
Vera II. Grllfllb, county vice-president.
The following program was carried out:
Greeting, 1'. H. Fntrington; phort book
review, "The Hent Tv.lg," Canlleld
Flnher, Mrs. (.'. M. Winslow of Ilrandon;
"Life and Gtibi-iilla," Glasgow, .Mrs
Hrnest Hitchcock of Plttuford and Miss
Alfa T, Chalmers of Uutland; "How the
Library May Help the Schools," Super.
Inteiident Hcnnctt C. Douglass of Mils
town; "How Schools May Co-opeiate
With the Library," Prof. S. F, Kmcrson
of llurllngton; "Tho Co-operation of
Clubs and Library," Misu May Mauley of
Plttsford nnd Miss Lucy 1, Cheney of
Uutland; "Community Co-operation,"
Mrs. Frank C J 'a fridge of Proctor;
"Community Story Telling," with a story
Mrs. Wilfred F. Daggett of Proctor. Din
ner was served at tho Congregational
chapel by the trustees, of the Ilrandiei
library. Among those who attended wen
Mrs. John Cadwell of Florence, Mlsi
J May Itandall, Mrs. Hrucst Hitchcock and
j May Mauley of Plttsford, Miss Norton,
I .Mrs. Final; C Patrldgo and Mid. Wit
1 f red F. 1 laggett of Proctor, Miss Lucy
I D. Cheeney and 1. 1 as Alfa T. Chalmers
Mnnj- Attend hen Ices for I.ntr
K no vi ii lli.-lrliui.
St. Albans, May .1. Funeral services
for Dr. William Stanford Stevens, for
merly of Mils city, who died at his home
In Hoston Saturday evening, after an
Illness of several weeks, were held at
the First Congregational Church In this
city this afternoon at 2:30 o'clock, the
P.ev. W. P. Jackson officiating. Mri.
! Henry F. James sang "He Shall Feed
His Flock," Mrs. N. N Atwood acting
as accompanist. Dr. George O. Mltch
li ll and W. D. Chandler acted as ushers
land the bearers were Theodore It.
Waugh, Tercy C. Warner, George W.
Hrownell, K. II. Uoyce, Ilruce II. Corliss
and Loo F. Wlllson. The burial was in
the South Main street cemetery.
Gut of town relatives and friends
present besides his family were Mrs.
Harriet S. Lewis, Mrs. Oliver Crocker
Stevens. Miss Agnes ISyrncs, Fred
Vlaux and Charles Tewksbttry of Hos
ton. Mr. and Mrs. Walter P. Lewis ot
Chicago, Ills., Joseph T. Stearns of llur
llngton representing the Harvard club
of Vermont, M. P. Pel ley. C. L. Ovltt,
nlln Merrill and J. Kent I'erley of
Muosbuig Falls, the Ho v. L". H. Vrailen
bitrg and Theodore I'erley of F.noshurg.
Dr. Stevens was a native of Hoston.
where he was born June 1."!, isr,!, a son
of Dr. Calvin and Sophia (Toppan)
Stevens, of Pilgrim and Puritan extrac
tion. In ilCi he was graduated from
the Hoston Latin School, in lSVO from
Harvard University, in t SSH from the
Harvard Medical School, and In lSI
hi' received the degree of A. M. from
Harvard. Ho was a classmate of Col.
Theodore Uoosevelt at Harvard and the
two were Intimate personal friends
in isni Dr. Steiens represented old
ward IS In the .Marsachusetts Legisla
ture and In 1SSS and 1SS0 wns a mem
her of the Hoston Common Council from
the same ward. While in Hoston he
devoted much attention to charitable
and literary organizations, lie wns
member of the Union club, the Harvard
club, the University club, the Hoston
City club, tho Oakley Country club, the
Twentieth Century club, and the New
Ungland Historic-Genealogical society.
After his marriage in lSOu bo moved
to Mils city and hero he made his home
until a few years ago. lie is survived
by his wife, two sons, Stanford Hunt
Ington Stevens, a. member of the class
of 1010 at Harvard, and Philip Greeley
StevenB, a student at Ciroton, Mass. A
brother, Oliver Crocker Stevens ot
Hoston, died llvo years a;?o
Tho annual conclave of Mount Cavalry
Commnndcry, No. 1, K. T., was
held in their rooms In the Masonic Tem
ple Wednesday evening, April 2il.
There was a good nttcnUanro and the
following oilleers wero elected; K. .,
K. D, Itlaekwell; Gen., F. O Hrooklns;
C. II., II. L. Averlll; S. W A. S, Hiiirl
mau; J. W, 11. H Hrown; prelnto, A. W.
Dickens; treasurer, T. M. Chapman;
recorder, W. II. Hrewster; steward, H.
W. Spooncr; sword benrer, R. H. OMSrlen1
warden, J. I!. Leonard; sentinel,
C. J Padlock. A banquet was set veil
K, G. Piper lias returned from Hoston
and reports that he had some cattle burn
ed In tho lire In th" P.iighton slock yards
April '.'". The Gorhatn brothers, also of
this village, had cattle there and the
two ihali'iM are ipilte heavy losers, with
no Insurance
The remains of William Jackson wero
taken on the 7'W o'clock train Saturday
morning L Northflcld, where Initial
was made 111 the cem'tcry of that vil
lage. Tho leinains wero accompanied
by his wife, son. Dane Jackson, brother,
Udwaril Jackson, and several relatives
who came here from Northflcld to nt
tend the funeial, aNo Dr. Corkran, pas
tor of the Methodist Church. George It.
Hart and Miss Irene May Currier, both
ot Whiting, wen; married nt the office
ot Judge l're.l M. Uootu Saturday
morning. Mr. and Mrs. Hart left Im
mediately for a wedding trip, after
which It Is expected they will reside In
Whiting. Mr. and Mrs. K. I. Jewell ot
Partington are visiting at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Oliver Chllson for a few
days.-Mrs. Kdward Hunt, Jr., gave a
party Saturday In lienor of her daugh
ter, ICmellne. Ward Whalen of Worces
ter, Mass., is visiting at the homo of
-Mr. and Mrs. Hanks. Miss Emma CI.
Uaston, who has boon visiting at the
home of her parents, .Mr. nnd Mrs. Hub
ert Faston, on North Pleasant street
for a few weeks, has gone to Lake
Placid, N. Y., where she lias seemed
a position as stenographer. Miss Faith
Llndsley. who has been visiting at tho
home of her parents In town for a few
weeks, has ictuined to her si hool
duties nt Proctor. Chai les Pow
ers, who lias been visiting at the
home nt his aunt, Mlrs Lucy Tlnney,
for a few days, has returned to his
home In Hennlngton. -Mrs. F. Moore has
gone to Saranae Lake, N- V . where she
will spend the summer. Mrs. AHhiir
ISIee, who has been visiting at tho home
of her parents. Mr. and Mrs. John
Slnon. for two weeks, bns returned to
Albany, N. Y. The Misses Mary Slgnor
and Julia Carroll have gone to Gros.-e.
point, Ferrisburg, where they will spend
the summer. L. Hentleld of Rouses
Point, N. V., I In town to visit at the
home of bis son, Lewis Hentleld. Carl
Sears, who has been visiting at the
homo of bis grandfather, William L.
Cady, for a week, has returned to his
home in Vergennes. Peter J. Donnelly,
who was called to Proctor on account
To-day's nils aro of tho sort ycet don't
want to miss. Just test this by a llttlo
rending.
Can you imagine a minimi aa a success,
fill "homo woman" If tho ads do not in
tcrcst her?
of Rutland, and Pi of.
of RuiUngtou, and inuuy
F. Hmerson
others.
DEFEATS U. V. M.
Mldilli bury College WIiin Intercolle
giate Debute on Monroe Doctrine.
Mlddlcbury, May :!. Mlddlebury opened
Junior week by winning a unanimous
decision oer the University of Vermont
to-night In n debate upon "Resolved,
Thul the United States should ask A 11 C
powers to Join her In dcl'.nlug and en-
lorcing ine .Monroe Doctrine." The Jinlg t
were thu lion. M. W. Webber, Pint.
Isaac 'I hotuas and Mr. Olney, all from
Rutland. The affliniatlvo wns upheld by
Jsliani, Johnson and Woodward of Ver
mont, and the negative by Kdmuuds
Floyd and Uulfum ot Mlddlcbury.
OUR NAVY EASILY
IN SIXTH PLACE
pro-
Washington, May Secretary Daniels
to-day tiar.sl'iltted to Ro.iresentativo
llutler of l'er.iislv'''.nla, ranking republi
can member of Mm House naval commit
tee, ti report of the, general board of tho
muy showing that because of lack of In
formation regarding additions to F.uro
pean navies since the war began, it is
Imposslblo to stnte what building and
personnel program would he necessary to
re-establish Mm United Slntes in second
place among tho world's sea powers, Mr.
llutler recently asKeit that ho ho
ldeil with such a statement.
Mr. Hutler nsked also for a dellnlto
ntatciiieut as to when the American navy
dt opped from n-coiul pljice. The board
lellled that there were several stand
ards of determining naval strength, of
Hhlih the easiest of application 'was
that of displacement. Ry th standard,
applied to ships already built, it adds!
Mm navy reached Becoiid place in lWij
lost It to Germany In inn, ,,,! fc'td
sixth on the outbreak of the F.uropean
war and the sudden expansion of tho
naval forces of Iho belligerents.
of the death of tils brother, Michael j
Donnelly, has returned and gone to ills
place of employment in Hrldport. Mr.
and Mrs. Harry Hamilton, who have
been visiting at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. A. W. Itradle- for a week, have'
leturned to their home In Athol, Mass. I
Mrs. Flora Kddy of Taunton, Mass., I
Is In town. Mr. and Mrs. George '
Sehryer of Rutland ale visiting at the
Home of Mr. and Mr. Harton for a
few days.-The Mlddlebury Grange ob
served Fiiday night as younr, people's
night and theie was a good attendance.
Mrs. Kdward Iligglns is at St. Peter's
hospital, Albany, N. V. Tho women of
the Memorial l'.aptlst Church will hold
parcel poM sale May 1" Refresh
ments will be sei oil.- M rs. . .
Hrown, who was called here by the
death of her sister. Mrs. T. F.. Hoyce,
has retained to Milford, Conn. Mrs.
Mllen Sears Is III. The Improvement
society v. Ill hold a dime sociable In the
town hall l"rida. evening, lo which all
am Invited. -.Mrs. iienianun .mc
t.iiilvey and daughter have leturned
from Staiksboro, whcie they hae been
islting her parents. Mr. and Mrs. 1'ieil
Orvls. George H. Hliebaid of Shore-
ham is visiting In town with ft lends for
two weeks. Mis. James Osborne and
daughters, Sadie and Jennie, of Oswego,
N. y., aie (siting In town. The condi
tion of Mai till Harrows, who has been
ill since last spiing, has become ciltl
cal, the present trouble being a cancer
of the throat and complications, Mrs.
lllba l.eno has returned from Hollows
Kalis, where she was called three weeks
ago by the illness of a daughter, who
is now .somewhat bet ter Raymond
Hruya. who has been visiting at the
home of his parents, Mr. ami Mrs. H. 11.
Hruya, for 10 days, has leturned to his
college duties at Hartford, Conn
-Tho Middleliury Public library j
will be closed Friday. Miss Laura ,
llagar has gone to Sprlngtleld, Mass., '
and Milford, Conn., where she will
spend tho summer. Mis Gettrude I'.ism
of Dover, N. 11.. Is Isltlng al the home
of Prof, and Mis. Raymond McFarlnnd.
Flsle Carpenter, who has been lsll
Ing al the home of her grandparents,
Mi-, and Mrs. Kugene Carpenter, for a
few weeks, has returned to Hoston i
A. .1. Hlai'kmer. the undertaker, lias a
new auto hearse, tho only one in the
State. It is made by the Meteor Car
company of Piiiia, Ohio. It can bo
used cither as a lionise or an aiubil-lance.-C.
II. Carrlgan of Philadelphia,
I'a., is In town, having been called here
to attend to the estate of the late Helen
Campbell.
Jesse ,1. Mack has had a telephone In
stalled at his home on Chlpmau hill,
the number being 7-31.
Joseph W. Calhoun has gone to Hoston,
called there by the serious Illness of his
daughter-in-law, Mis, Calhoun, who was
operated upon Saturday. Theie will bo
an entertainment at tho Fast Mlddlebury
schoolhoiiso IVIday evening. Tito pin
cecils tire to bo used for tho benefit of
the school Monday, inaiket day,
eggs brought 20 to 22 cents
and butter 21 to ;il. Mr. and Mrs.
Walter G. Waltt and daughter, who wero
tailed here last wrek by the death of her
mother, Mrs. Orvls Coinstock have re
turned to their homo in Cleveland, Ohio,
Wind has been tecelved from New Yor'c
city that Mrs. Hello (Moore) Lane, a for
mer well-known resident of this vllage,
has passed through a successful opera
tion for b'oltio at tho Hahnemann bos-
pltal, whero she had been for four weeks,
and Is now nt her own home In that
Ity, As soon as sho is strong enough nh-3
will return to Mlddlebury In company
with her mother, Mrs, O. p. Moore, with
whom she will spend the summer, Miss
Mai Ion Woodman of Sprlngtleld, Mass,
and Philip C Jones, assistant pastor of
the Congregational Church nt Morldeii.
Conn., who have been visiting at the
.lotno of lVof. and M.'.i. Fdwln R. Holni's
for n week, have returned to their re
spective homes. Mrs. John Stoddanl if
Rlpton Is visiting at the home of Mr
and Mrs. C. F. Rich for a few days.
Aithttr Hottsfi.-d of Saranae Lake, N. Y,
Is the guest of Mr. and Mrs. Ransom R
O'ltryan. Kben C. Ryder, who lias been
tulle 111 for two weeks, Is slowly recover
ing. Mrs. Mulforil It. Rutt mid daughtc
if Oswego, N. V., are 111 town for a fev
days with her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph W. Calhouii. Kdgar L. Jackson,
called here by the deatli ot his brother
William M. Jackson, has returned ti
Herkimer, N. . C. H. Ilorbeatix ot
Pittsburg, Pa., is the guest of Ills nlen
Mrs. Oliver K. Chllson. At the annua!
meeting of the Altar Guild of St
Stephen's Church the following wi r
elected: President, Miss .Muriel Vlltum
treasurer, Gladys Cartmell; sccrotar)
Mrs. William McGllton.-Mr. and Mrs.
W. G. Larrabeo nf Sboreham are visit
ing nt the home of .Mr .and Mrs. William
H. Stokes. Word has been received from
Groton, Mass., that Prof. Edwin L
Hlgley, a former member of the faculty
of the Mlddlebury College and for several
ears professor of Greek and Latin at
the Groton school. Is sulously 111 with
pneumonia. The Hawthorne club held
well attended meeting at the home ot
Dr. and Mrs. Kzra Hralnard Tuetdav
evening. Miss Julia Hond and Dr.
Itr.iltiard hud charge of the program -The
Missionary society of the Consrega
'ional Church held a well attended meet
ing at the home of M-s. A. S. Hnrriman
on High street Tuesday evening. Cyi'l
Rentier, who has b, en visiting at the
homo of Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Smith for
a week, has returned to Rutland. Mr
inn -Mrs. i alter l'arrow, who have neeu
visiting at the home of M-s. Thomas
Met lay for a week, have returned to
Rutland. Charles and Clifford Shacket
have leturned to Rutland after a fev
days at the home of their mother, Mrs
Frank Trudo. Mrs. A. H. Smith and
daughter, Mrs. Morelock, are visiting Mr,
Smith at the M.ary Fletcher hospital
Hurllngton. Mr. and M-s. F.rncst Sever
nice, who have been visiting at the bom
of Mr. and Mrs. Homer Haiti, for a week,
have returned to Proctor. Mr. and Mrs.
Horace Dow and two daughters, who
spent the winter In Florida, have return
ed. Mr. and Mrs. I. Ii. j'loyes, who have
spent tile winter in Florida, have returned
and opened their homejfor the summer.
1 Too annual meeting Jot the Christian
j Kndeavor society ot the Memorial Bap
I tlst Church will bo held in tho church
I parlors Friday evening nt 7: to p. m..
I followed by a social hour.
Tho annual meeting of tho Womans
Aid and Auxiliary societies of St. Ste
phen's Church met at the home of Mrs.
William McGllton on College street Tues
day afternoon. There was a goon at-
tendance and reports of the olllcers show
oil that the societies wero In good condl
tlon. This was followed by the election
of olllcers, for the Aid, as follows; Presi
dent, !Mrs. Nelson Seymour, secretary,
.Mrs. W. F. Rentley; treasurer, Mrs. J.
Vs. Hold. The Auxiliary officers are:
President, Mrs. Isaac Sterns; vice-presidents,
Mrs. Oliver K. Chllson, Mrs.
Kdith Robertson; secretary, Mrs A. T.
Calhoun; treasurer, Mrs. Fred W. Ilcck
witb. After tho business meeting a so
'lal hour was spent, during which Mrs.
J. H. Bold played several selections on
I tho piano. Dr. A. D. Harter will spend
to-day In Hurllngton attending the annual
) State meeting of tho Vermont Optical so
ciety. Tho Hon. John M. Thomas went
to Rutland Wednesday and In the even
ing delivered an address before the Hut
laud County Har association at Its semi
annual haiKiuet. Professor and Mrs. Ray
mond McFarland and son have gone to
Leicester. Mass., to visit bis parents for
a low clays. -Walter W. Martin Is making
extensive icpalrs on tho interior of his
residence on Washington street There is
a largo demand for laboring men in some
of the manufacturing estanllshments in
Mils section, especially In and near Mld
dlebury, and high wages aie bing of
fered. Roth skilled and unskilled work
men are in ieciiet and it looks as though
tho demand would increase Instead ot
diminish, .Mr. and Mrs. Harmon U. Gold
man and two children of Hridgeport,
Conn., nro visiting in town. Miss Stella
Turner has been summoned from her
school in Ferrisburg, owing to tho crit
ical Illness of her sister. Miss F.llzabeth
Turner, who has had another bad spell
after having been thought for several
days to be out of danger The wagon fur
nished by tlio Village Improvement so
ciety will collect rubbish, neatly piled
at the edge of tho road, on Friday o- Sat
urday of thin week. Tin cans, etc., must
Ivo In boxes or barrels, so as to be easily
lmndled. The Rev. Roy H. Whlttlmore of
tho Memorial Baptist Church will hold a
covenant meeting in tho church parlors
tills evening at 7..T0 o'clock. Tho subject
will lo "lessons from tho Past, IMrpose
for the Future.",!. T. Driscoll, Inspec
tor of tho New F.nglnud Firo Insuranco
Kxcbauge, was in town Monday and with
a number of the firemen of the local tiro
department made a test of the water
pressure In different parts of tho village.
Most of tho hydrants tested were good.
At the regular meeting of the selectmen
of the town Noble J, Sauford Mas ap
pointed to till out the unexpired term qf
poormaster, caused hy the death of Wil
liam M. Jio ksoi,-M1ss Louise Uwlro Is
ill. A, N Priiwu is breaking ground for
the new house h Is to elect on tho Kins
lev place on South Main street, which he
bought about it yenr ago. lie ban torn
down the old bouse which had stood
there for about leu years.
IN TWO MONTHS
MEXIGANS BELIEVE
Tentative Agreement Said tc
Have Rccn Reached between
Scott and Obregon in Military
Conference.
SCOTT FORWARDS REPORT
ObrcKon Is Pledged to Throw
Every Available Man into Ban
dit Hunt When Carranza Has
Situation in Hand American
Soldiers Will Leave.
Washington, May 3. Secretary F.ak
er declined to-night to make public
any part or outline of General Scott .
report on his conferences with Gcuoral
Obri.'gon at F.l Paso, which reached' the
war department late to-night. He said
tho report was of such a nature that
It could not be disclosed or discussed
until President Wilson had seen It.
The full text of the long despatch
had not been decoded at midnight. Tin
President had retired by that time,
postponing consideration of the matter
until to-morrow.
Secretary Haker said it seemed like
ly there would lie another meeting be
tween Generals Scott and Obrcgon, ai
the agreements suggested were tenta
tive and Ineffective until ratified by
President Wilson anil General Car
ranza. HI Paso, Tex., May 3. Mexican mili
tary men believe the withdrawal of
American troops from Mexico will take
place in about two months, It wa
learned hero to-night. American oill
eers will make no comment on the sub
ject. The Mexicans sny that in view of
the dispositions to bn mado by General
Alvaro obrcgon In co-operating with
American forces according to the ten
tative agreement mado wltli General
Hugh L. Scott, tho hunting down of tho
bandit groups In Chihuahua and Dur-
ongo can scarcoly take moro than that
time.
On assurances from General Carranza
that the bandits are dispersed, tho
northward movement nf American
troops will attain full speed and it will
not be long until the last trooper
crosses over the international bound
ary line.
In the meantime, it was pointed out,
there will lie constant movements north
ward of American detachments so that
when the final order for withdrawal
comes there will lie only a part of the
present expeditionary force left on Mexi
can soil,
It Is understood that General Obregon
Is pledged to throw every available man
of his military strength into the hunt
for the various marauding bands. It H
believed that almost all the i,l.) men
suggested by General Carranza as a
Mexican border patrol, in case tho Ameri
can government consented to witniirawai
will be utilized In the campaign. Tlv
American forces will block etfectually
any Might northward of tho bandits.
There will be no need of the railways
for the shipment ot supplies because of
the shortening of the line of communi
cations and right to use them Is under
stood to have been relinquished.
Following bis conference yestorday and
last night with General Obregon, the
discussion occupying 12 hours. Goner." I
Scott snatched a few hours' sleep to
day nnd then started to work on a ro-
prrt to Secretary of War Haker whlri
was not dlspnt-hed until late to-day.
It was thought probable that the report
might not be presented to President
Wilson before late to-night or early to
morrow. General Scott refused to discuss thu
situation except to say that he
greatly satlstled with the course events
bad taken.
In Juarez great satisfaction was ex
pressed by Mexican officials. On every
band It wns reported that the Mexican
representatives at the conference had
been successful In their efforts to ob
tnln the withdrawal of the American
troops.
El Paso, May 3. General Alvaro
Obregon, Mexican minister of war. to
night issued a statement to The As
sociated Press, in which he said
"As the result nf the conference yes
terday with General Scott. the at
mosphere! seems now completely clear
ed up. There Is a much bettor feel
ing between Americans and Mexicans
and all tension seems vanished.
"An ngreemeiit has not been reached,
but ever thing is progressing favor
ably and I have the highest hopes that
matters will reach a successful cul
mination." It was reported on good authority
to-night that General Obregon had re
ceived assurances that the terms ot
Mm tentative agreement would bo ac
ceptable to lionet al Carranza.
DR. JOHN GIBSON DIES.
VERGENNES.
Picrpolnt Lodge, No. 37, Knights of Py
thias, enjoyed a lish chowder supper Sat
urday evening at their hall In the Gaines
Mock. The pike for tho supper were do
nated by Dr. C. 11. Cole, Dr. F. M. Rog
ers, II. W. Day, G. C. Ross. Levi H.
Hrown and Walter W. Riistol, who re
turned Friday from a pike llshlng trip
to Uust Alburg.-'Mrs. Linda Gngo has
been called to New Vork city to caro fo,1
her sister, Mrs, Colby, who Is seriously
111 from tho efects of a shock. -Miss Ruth
(Continued on Page two.)
Vlbtinx I'lij oliiiin, (irmluntc of
Jl, In 1MIS iiecinnln Suddenly
St. Albans. Mny 3.-Pr.
for 13 years a successful
surgeon In this city, was
bed this
V.
John Gibson,
physician and
found dead lit
morning about 7:30 o'clock by
his wife, who went to call him when
ho did not appear at the usual time.
The cause of death was heart trouble.
A native of Druindook, Scotland,
where he was born April fi, 17, Dr
nibson came to this country In early
life and with other members of the
family located In Cambridge, Mnsg. llo
received his education in tho public
schools of Cambridge and was gradu
ated from the Medical College of t -University
nt Vermont In 1S9. After
his graduation ho located In Verscniics,
