Kentucrm
THE WEATHER
FOR KENTUCKY
Thursday, probably
fair,
WATCH THE DATE
After your mnn, nnetr
promptly And not imM
number, the ro(nl ritul
tlonl rwjulrt ubcrlpllon to
be pall In lvnco.
vol. xxxyn.
HOPKINSVILLE KENTUCKY, THURSDAY, MAY 4, 1916.
No. 54
HOPKINSVILLE
.
rniTADIAl MMMFNT S
The casualties of the Irish rebels
arc put at 500 killed and 1500 wound
ed.
v The Mexicans have been given to
understand that the Americans will
not withdraw until they get ready.
The Court of Appeals has decided
that a woman who killed her hus
band did not forfeit her dower rights.
The Publicity League of Louisville
gave Bob Brown a going-away ban
quet Tuesday night. He left for New
York yesterday.
All of the rebels in Dublin had sur
rendered Monday, about 1,000, of
whom 489 were sent to England. The
rebellion lasted just a week.
The installment of "The Strange
Case of Mary Page" due for Satur
day, will be found in today's double
issue. The next installment will ap
pear a week from today.
Print paper lias jumped from 2J
cents to 4J cents within the last sixty
days and the supply has become so
limited that there is danger of a paper
famine at these double prices.
The trial of Thos. Byars, Commis
sioner of Motor Vehicles, was begun
in Frankfort, Tuesday. This is the
second trial of Commissioner Byars
on a charge of appropriating money
of the State to his own use while
lautomobile clerk in the Secretary of
Cjjtote's office.
Two hundred votes were cast for
the Henderson county bond issue and
2,000 against it. The election , was
held because there was no way to
call it off, even the bond advocates
voting against the proposition because
the fiscal court insisted On handling
the bond money instead of letting it
be done by a commission.
Another conference has been held
at which it was decided that Attorney
General M. M. Logan is to be perma
nent chairman of the Democratic state
convention and Congressman J.
Campbell Cantrill chairman of the
campaign committee. The temporary
chairman and the chairman of the
state executive committee have al
ready been announced, leaving noth
ing for the 2,000 or more delegates,
yet to be chosen, to do but to ratify
the honors conferred in advance up
on distinguished office-holders. Even
the delegates at large have been slated
in a similar manner. It is just possi
ble that this phase of "preparedness"
is a mistake, considering the close
rub we had last year. 1
KENTUCKIAN'S BUSINESS
In To-day's Kentuckian are presented eighty-one advertisements of responsible Hopkinsville business houses or citizens of
which represents the photo of some one member of each firm or company taking part in this contest. Each picture is in the wrong
i ii i.i . t : n I . "nt n.-tf... r,f-. .' .,,.,...... q u. mnnrt
wnere rney uciuny. uiuanaie wum.i.uuububS( uaa uii ttuvbiua.iuuii in tiit-hih. jiab0 uiruiwviibik. uuivu; in,
After you locate his picture, cut it out and paste or pin "it to the advertisement of his house. If you are successful in arranging the
for the contest, the Kentuckian will reward you.
FOR YOUR SKILL IN SOLVING THE PUZZLE, THE JUDGES WILL AWARD PRIZES AS FOLLOWS:
To the person sending in the best prepared and neatest correct list one-half dozen Cabinet photographs by W. R. Bowles $3 and the Kentuckian one year $2, making - $5.00
To the second test solution, 3 Its. $1.00 Candy and Kentuckian 6 months $1.00 - ! 4 qq
To the third test solution 2 settings Barred Plymouth Rock Eggs $1.50 a setting , ,3 qq
To the four next test solutions, each the Kentuckian one year $2 00 y ' , 8. 00
To the five next test solutions, each the Kentuckian six months $1.00 . , , , 5 qq
In case of a tie. prizes of equal value will be awarded each tying contestant. MAKING A TOTAL IN TWELVE AWARDS OF $25.00
THE SIMPLEST WAY to go atout solving the puzzle is to first cut out each advertisement and then cut from each advertisement the picture which appears in it. Then paste each adver
tisement on a piece of paper and find the picture that tclongs in this advertisement and paste or pin it in the space provided for the purpose just over the name of the party representing his firm
that is printed in each advertisement.
RULES OF CONTEST .
FIRST- Evcrytody may participate in this contest except employes of the Kentuckian and their families. All others arc invited to compete-without money or price.
SECOND Use Hank sheets of paper, silk or card hoard and paste or pin the two parts of each advertisement together. '
THIRD All answers must he mailed or sent to the Kentuckian office, ly noon, Wednesday, May 10, 1916.
FOURTH Successful contestants will he announced in the Kentuckian Thursday May 11, 1916.
FIFTH All answers must be addressed to the Contest Department, Kentuckian, Hopkinsville, Ky.
TOTAL AWARDS IN CONTEST $25.00. .
C0MP1N
IN ENGLAND
Five Million Volunteers Not
Enough, Law Must Compel
Slackers, Asquith Says.
AIRSHIPS ATTACK COAST
Belgian Counter Attack Drives
Germans From Captured
Trenches.
London, May 3. The recruiting
problem in England is to be dealt
with by the British parliament in a
bill to be introduced ky the govern
ment calling for general and immedi
ate compulsory enlistment.
Although since the commencement
of the war the naval and military en
listments have exceeded 5,000,000
men, Premier Asquith told the house
of commons that the existing machine
ry for recruiting was not sufficient to
get more men to the colors and that it
was the purpose of the government to
ask for legislation which would com
pel so-called "slackers" to answer
their country's call.
Five hostile airships attacked the
northeast coast of England and the
southeast coast of Scotland last night
The official announcement of the raid
says that the movements of the raid
ers appeared uncertain, adding: "A
few bombs were dropped in York
shire, buj there are no details yet re
garding the casualties or damage."
With the situation in Ireland virtu
ally normal, the militaryauthorities
are now busily engaged in running
down the few remaining Sinn Feiners
who have failed to surrender.
BELGIANS REPEL ATTACKS
A German attack against the Bel
gians" to the north of Dixmude is the
only infantry engagement reported at
any point along the western front.
Artillery bombardments, especially
severe to the northeast of Verdun,
have been the sole method of warfare
on the other sectors. North of Dix
mude the Germans, after a violent
preparatory bombardment, charged
and occupied positions of three Bel.
gian advance posts, but the Belgians
in a qounter atfack immediately drove
out the invaders.
A German attempt to assume the
offensive against the Russians at Rag
gasem, near Riga, was put down but
the Teutons continue their heavy ar
tillery fire against the Ikskull bridge
head and in the Lake Narocz and Lake
Viscnevskove regions.
German aircrafts have bombed sev
eral Russian positions in the Gulf of
Riga and a Russian air squadron has
delivered an attack against the Gcr
man naval base at Windau, Courland.
Vienna reports that the heavy fight
ing between the Austrians and Italians
in the Adamcllo sector of the Austro
Italian line is still going on and that
Italian attacks against various Austri
an positions have been put down with
heavy casualties.
RUSSIANS PURSUE TURKS
The Russians arc continuing their
pursuit of the Turks in the Diarbckir
region of Asia Minor. Members of
the Turkish infantry have been killed
or captured by Cossacks. Constanti-'
noplc reports the driving aground in
the Black sea by a Turkish submarine
of three Russian steamers and the
sinking of three food laden sailing
ships.
Two steamers, one of them neutral,
have been sunk, but whether by
mines or .torpedoes has not been
stated. Another neutral steamer has
been damaged and is being towed in
to port. The neutral sunk was the
Brazilian Rio Granco and the one
damaged, the Swedish Fridland. The
Fridland. The Fridland and the
British steamer Hendonhall which
was sunk, were bound from Portland,
Me., for Rotterdam with supplies for
the American commission for relief in
Belgium.
DOUBLE SEASON
FOR TOBACCO
The Rain Yesterday Killed
Two Birds With One
Stone.
Tobacco is a crop that is always on
hand. This was evidenced by the
rain yesterday that brought the old
crop in "season" and made a "sea
son" for planting the new one at the
same time. A small proportion of
old tobacco is still unsold and this can
now be brought to market, as the dry
spell interfered. It is a little early
for setting out the new crop, but
plants are ready and the "early bird"
will no doubt catch the first "worm"
that comes along.
MUHLENBERG PRESBYTERIAL.
The tenth annual meeting of the
Muhlenberg Presbyterial, the ladies
organization, was held Tuesday and
Wednesday, at the Westminister
church. Mrs. Chas. P. White, of
Guthrie, was President; Mrs. L. S.
DuBois, of Paducah, Secretary, and
Mrs. W. T. Fowler, of this city, His
torian. Yesterday's program embraced ad
dresses by Miss A. E. Berry, Miss
W. M. Charlton and a "Bible Study"
by Miss Stervig.
FIRST CONTEST APRIL. 2L3, 1914
WITHOUT NOTE
OF WARNING1
i
Spirit of A, W. Pyle Left His
Body Tuesday Morn
ing. THINKING OF GRANDSON
Funeral Services Held at
Christian Church Yester
day Afternoon.
An attack of heart failure that came
without a moment's notice ended the
life of A. W. Pyle, one of Hopkins
ville's oldest business men Tuesday
morning about 9 o'clock. He was
in his usual health in the morning
and as was his custom went with his
son-in-law, Paul Winn, to the latter's
coal office at Seventh and railroad
streets. He had given no indications
of illness, had attended church Sun
day night and had been about the
coal office the day before. About
nine o'clock Mr. Pyle was standing
by and watching Mr. Winn make a
squirrel cage for his little eight-year-old
son, Paul. The grandfather was
taking a lively interest in the work,
his little grand son being the pride of
his heart Suddenly without a word
of warning, Mr. Pyle pitched forward
unconscious and fell at Mr. Winn's
feet. Hastily raising him up, Mr.
Winn called for assistance but Mr.
Pyle gasped once or twice and died
in his arms in less than a minute's
time.
Abner Winchester Pyle was born
in Christian county Nov. 22, 1844, the
eldest son of John and Jane Mcacham
Pyle. He grew to manhood on his
father's Jarm near the BrickChurch
and went first to Princeton and later
came to Hopkinsville and learned the
trade of a cabinet maker in the fur
niture stores of that day.
In 1868 he formed a partnership
with the late W. B. Mason, Sr., and
with an occasional change in partners
remained in the furniture business
for 32 years. He added an under
taking department and also main
tained a work room, making much
of the furniture he sold. He was a
natural genius in mechanics and in
vented many improvements and ap
pliances, including a folding bed with
unique features.
On Sept. 29, 1870, he was arried
to Miss Ollie Wade, a daughter of the
late Henderson Wade, who survives '
him. Three daughters were born to
them, only one of whom survives,
Mrs. Paul Winn, the youngest. Mr.
Pyle was a lifelong member of the
MEN'S CONTEST
Christian church and a member of the
official board. Ho was active in his
church work and was a devout and
consistent christian. He was a regu
lar attendant at both church services
and Sunday school.
The funeral services were held yes
terday afternoon at 3 o'clock, at the
Christian church, conducted by Rev.
J. N. Jcssup. The burial followed in
Riverside cemetery.
The honorary pallbearers wore
Geo. C. Long, W. P. Winfree, R. F.
Brumfidd and C. II. Bush. The
active pallbearers were Frank Rives,
M. F. Crenshaw, Thos. P. Cook, Dr.
J- E. Oldham, B. B. Rice and Dr. F.
P. Thomas.
DEATH OF A
NONOGENARIAN
John H. Faulkner, of Cale
donia, Passes to the
Great Beyond.
Mr. John II. Faulkner died about
3 o'clock yesterday morning at his
home near Caledonia, Trigg county.
He was the oldest citizen of his sec
tion and probably the oldest man in
Trigg county, being in his 93rd year.
Mr. Faulkner had enjoyed remark
ably good health for one of his ex
treme age and it was only recently
that his decline was rapid. He was
a prosperous farmer and had been en
gaged in agricultural pursuits for
many years. He was a most excel
lent citizen and stood high in the com
munity in which he had spent the
most of his long life. His wife, whom
he married only a few years ago, and
one son, Mr. Charles H. Faulkner,
by a former marriage, survive.
The interment took place in the
family burying ground yesterday af
ternoon. MUSIC RECITAL
Miss Lela Wilson, a pupil of Miss
Follansby, will give her graduating
recital in music at the Methodist
church tonight, assisted by Mrs. John '
Wallace. I
n ..... ., . I took part in the first conference in
B. Fay Mills, the evangelist, wholjuareZi who jg d , conversant
uiiui; autimtu n jm iauiii uiiutxivui
meennrr nere. uiea in (imiui Knnu
Mich., Tuesday, aged 58 years. In
inn itinn CATl fW 1- 1
in his meetings.
Four thousand fly swatters have
been distributed to Lexington school
children. They were made in the
manual training school department.
Hopkinsville will play Princeton Samuel Clark, aged 50, at Mt. Ver
May G in the series of High School non, O., was tarred and feathered by
baseball games. a mob.
the county. In each advertisement there is an engraving
Ad. You are asked to cut out the pictures and place them
i. ...:n l. t j a. . . r r-
uuvbi will uc iuuuu me
complete list of pictures appearing
I). 8. BARS WAY
TO
Troops Block Advance of Car
ranza Cavalry Found in
Pulpito Pass.
A GENERAL MOVEMENT
Progress in Negotiations
Announced Washington
Waits Result.
Is
Douglas, Ariz., May 3. An attempt
by a body of de facto Mexican caval
ry, the advance guard of Gen. Arn
ulfo Gomez's force, to enter Chihua
hua through Pulpito Pass, was blocked
Tuesday by American troops, accord
ing to a reliable report received here
from American sources.
The Mexicans, according to the re
port, were under command of Col.
Jesus Maria Aguierrc, and had pene
trated 18 miles into the pass before
their movement was discovered by a
United States military aeroplane which
reported their presence to the Ameri
can commander.
The American troops are said to
have been drawn up in strategic for
mation to hold the pass and Col. Agu
ierre did not attempt to press forward
but went into camp and dispatched
messengers to the rear, presumably
to communicate with Gen. Gomez.
Col. Aguierre's advance into Chi
huahua is believed here to have been
the forerunner of a general move
ment. , From El Paso comes the following
bulletin.
"We are still conferring in a spirit
of mutual good will, and hope to ar
rive at a solution that will be satis
factory to both our governments.
There will be nothing more for pub
lication."
This statement was signed "Obre-
.1 r 11 ,,
The attitude of the Mexican minis
ter of war is believed to have been
described by a Mexican official who
with tllO Clltil'C
situation and who
said:
'Between two evils you must
choose the lesser. It would be folly
to suppose the de facto government
desires war."
It was gathered from this, that the
Mexicans had decided not to press
the question of withdrawal with possi
bility that a break might follow.
NO. 2
picture or ivir. Iuirer. i
on the five pages set apart
CHIHUAHUA
