THE HERALD.
Devoted to the Upbuilding of the West Side of the River. "A very live and creditable weekly newspaper."-MANUFACTURERS' RECORD.
VOL. XXIII. NEW ORLEANS LOUISIANA, THURSDAY, MAY 4. 1916. No. 2.
GREATEST STORE SOUTH
Any Trimmed Hat In the
Millinery Salon
Y2 Price
Thursday, Friday and Saturday Only
Unrestricted Choice
These reductons are savage, but when we have
a clearance sale-its a clearance sale and there's
no doubt about it.
Perhaps the very hat you wanted so much, but
thought a little more than you could afford, is
here, and it will be a real economy to get it now.
$ 5.00 Hats for ...... $ 2.50
" / 7.50 Hats for ...... 3.75
9.75 Hats for ...... 5.00
12.50 Hats for ...... 6.25
15.00 Hats for ...... 7.50
18.50 Hats for ...... 9.25
20.00 Hats for ..... 10.00
22.50 Hats for ..... 11.25
25.00 Hats for ..... 12.50
The hats are all the season's loveliest and most fashionable models of the most
desired materials and trimmings; hats of the superlative kind of style and quality that
have built this store's reputation as the South's millinery fashon center.
Maison Blanche
GREATEST STORE SOUTH
You May Buy a
Columbia Grafonola
ON THE CLUB PLAN
AMALL PAYMENT DO)WN
* A SMALI, PAYMENT EACH MONTH
NO INTEREST CHARGED
The Columbia Outfit
$78.90
With Six Double Records
Machine just like cut. An ornament in any
home, and a producer of the world's best music.
$15.78 Down,
$7.90 Monthly 'till paid.
OUR PUBLIC FORUM
Peter Radford
ON THE AMERICANISM OF WASHINGTON
In these days when men earnestly inquire what true
Americanism is, the Declaration of Independence and the
Constitution of the United States afford a convenient
touchstone for the citizenship. These documents promise
the citizens the rights endowed upon them by their Creator
and among these rights are mentioned life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness. It is God-made and not man
made liberty that our government proposes to give its
citizens. Our government denies man the right to create
liberty or grant special freedom. We can only define
and equally distribute them. Thomas Jefferson in writ
ing the Declaration of Independence was so confident of
the unity and patriotism of the people that he uses less
- of space in laying down principles of government and the
e Svoted to complaints against King George. Our forefathers
Sverament spent almost their entire time in constructing ma
, M,ravng and distributing liberty to the people and Spent very
Sdelning it, although we have since added fifteen amendments
each specifically defining human right.
of Independence was signed and the Constitution of the
M *pted by men who had dedicated their lives and their property
*Et7. Patriotism ruled the day and indifference to the public
u thinkable crime. But in this age, we have become so
__ est affairs that we have little time to kiss the bible, salute
the Declaration of Independence or study the Constitution of
 hagL. The question uppermost in the minds of the patriots who
SYevrnent was "what can I give to my countrymen"? But the
Istion of this commercial age is "what can I get from Uy
T ie Lnstruments of government have been compelled to do
I gimes. It is true we have had to re-write the Constitution.
1st..tling it and have placed fifteen patches upon it and have
with laws expounding it, but it has stood the test.
of Washington places unbounded conidence in the
them and them alone with government and we elect men
. 3m,. The citizen is made the soveerign and we have now
_mion kings-and a large number of queens-sitting upon
mae and the responsiblties of government rest heavily
shoulders. The conditions now confronting the oltisenahip
.Ufrs that the traditions of Washington and Jefferson be
rs every citizen render allegiance to government, for when
- @epter, fools hold court, and when a cititen of this nation
S I vernment, he abete a throne, surrenders his righta
- S.aU hitp, mooh s atriots who ; ollowed Washinton
aea the Dclaraio t ndeesnIence and the .
Sates
A GOOD CATCH.
Patrolmen Hell and ('hristen. of the
E:ihth Precinct Police Station. made
a good capture Thursday evening at
5:1.5 o'clock when, at Patterson street
and Pacific avenue, they caught Winm.
.Mars. .: years old. and Carroll Var
nado, 19 years old, in the act of at
tempting to dispose of a lot of brass.
lead and copper material which is be
lieved to hate been stdlen. Mars
claimed to have purchased the stuff
at points along the river front from
St. James to New Orleans. but the pair
told so many conflicting tales that
they are not believed at all.
The material was brought to Algiers
in a skiff, which, it is thought may
also have been stolen, as neither pris
oner lives in this vicinity. Mars is
said to be an ex-convict and when
charged so by the police admitted that
he served two years in the peniten
tiary for breaking into a grocery at
Baldwin. La. Recorder Goff imposed
the usual sentence of $10 and twenty
days and nine days additional in order
to hold the suspects pending further
investigation of the case.
YOUR STATE TAX.
Those who do not take the official
journal of the city of New Orleans
will not be able to know that the state
taxes are now being advertised. After
the expiration of about thirty days
the property will be sold at public
auction at the Courthouse, so if you
have not paid a tax on your property
for 1915 you had better hustle down
and make the payment. By doing so
you will save several of the fees inci
dent to the delay, the advertising,
sending out notices. etc. Mr. Charles
Brownlee, who is in charge of the tax
collection department for the Algiers
district, will be more than pleased to
give such information as you desire.
Office hours from 9 a. m. to 3 p. m.
KINDERGARTEN PICNIC.
On Tuesday morning the little ones
attending the kindergarten at Belle
ville School were given a picnic by
the Mothers' Club and were kindly as
sisted by the teaching course in the
school.
The happy little party left the
Belleville Annex promptly at nine
o'clock. but unluckily it was way aft
er ten before they found their picnic
ground as some misunderstanding had
occurred as to where the picnic was
to be held. They were all taken in
autos to Kohn's property on the Low
er Coast, but available picnic grounds
could not be found at that particular
spot. After a good many rides up and
down the different lanes which all the
children enjoyed, a large oak tree
was selected where the little ones
were unloaded, much to their happi
ness. Mr. John Kappler used his con
veyance to take all of the refresh
ments, tables and chairs down to the
little ones..
PERSONALS II
AND OTHERWISE
1 ..; 1 " I( I .u ( i
- I "r \ 1 . i t \ **' I* 2L . !.
M11 , 1 . r. \r. \\ ' .T r ati ia .. air
!" £N +, -III t". [ /l ir lll; i 'i,,ll : 1; i 1 tl l,."'t /
! i;t.. ir .: lt . l ,. \t1 , .l .\ .\
Ii ., I f rma iii a tl I 1-i
\11 . 1 1;t..r. II a t '. or ,tI . L -t
r,.-Id, :.1. h, r"". ,Ii : i' rd r."-uilln - .t1
'I -:, a'1h i .n \ ,it 1 t, r dst _-h/,'r. 1lr, io.
(.1111n.i. ,t I I lant ,+ i + n'II .
r:'- tkrnllll.- \V. ·I"Iihl. \ ihoi ha.
.,' 1 II1 thiil l iil a ri -' I- - lIl It' -lllli ii
it!I .'4 itt a t 1i .t . '. .I,. .\la.. hai.
. a..n tIr l.ter:. ti l a - i i .r pil-iti,!i
i: llarn .y. La.. +~ . .i ha- i. . 1 I
ti ried uptln ti, t:. h.B r , it hr
i tiLt . .i-\ r Ki,'hl a1.- she i'- i glad t,
, Iac IL :nlL all tlid tolk slhe kl.no
, , In Slit aril her little daut lhtt.r.
Itthll atrt -lat in t i I hi t her t aiilyt iii
('lark stre.t
c'harl., IFlitk. :., ao7 r>. ,,l. 'is
plyoid as :a latboirer at th' \lartinei
Ibaker. .17 .lmira aT enue,, fell t hlile
Sarry iin a .a'k tof lour at o'i iloci
Fprilday night. and sustained a painful
injury a! out tho riht leg. Ie ii was
taken to tie hospital for treatment. ii
injury being pronolin-'ed slight.
henry Johnson of Natchez., Miss..
visited relatives here Saturday.
The many friends of Mrs. Eleanor
Nelson a ill learn with rere t of the
serious illness of her aged father a'
his home in D)el Rio. Tex. Mrs. Nel
son has been at lel Rio for several
weeks.
Mrs. H. 1I. J. Thompson of A.bit
Springs was the guest of her sister.
Miss Maude Anderson, for several
days last week. Mrs. Thompson was
sent as a delegate to the King's
Daughters Convention from the ('ov
ington t'ircle of Kings liaughters.
Superintendendent H. . McLean, of
the street car lines, has returned from
Asheville. N. C'.. where he spent a
short time on business.
Mayor Behrman left Monday after
noon for Biaton Rouge to attend there
Tuesday the annual meetinie of the
League of Louisiana Municipalities. of
which he is vice president. The may
or addressed thi, meeting oin "axa
tion."
Six members of Santa Maria ('oun
cil. Knights of Columbus. recently
were recipients of the fourth degree
honor, they being ('. .I. ID. Gerrets.
Louis Landry. Sr., John P. Sullivan,
Rev. T. Stenmans. chaplain: James
P. Selph, treasurer, and Thomas A.
Fox, financial secretary.
Ed Brodtman spent a few days at
Baton Rouge.
The many friends of Mrs. V. W.
Baucum will be pleased to learn that
she is improving after undergoing a
serious operation.
The Algiers Review No. V. W. B.
A. of the Maccabees, will give a
spring dance at Pythian Hall on Fri
day night. May 19th. The committee
of arrangements is composed of Miss
Irene Brookes, ex-officio, together
with Miss E. Iotard, chairman: Miss
B. Pabares and Misses I. L. and Ii.
French. Dancing will begin at S
o'clock. Music will be by Fisher's
Band.
Mrs. Lillie Yates is chairlady of the
refreshment committee.
Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Gerard and lit
tIc daughter, Audrey. and Corporal
and Mrs. A. Prados and daughter. Ca
mille. spent Saturday at Hellenberg.
Miss Edna Schroder is visiting
friends in New Iberia.
Lon Huff arrived Tuesday, having
been called here by the serious ill
ness of his mother, Mrs. W. N. Huff.
Mrs. S. Giordano and daughter,
Miss Viola, left for their home in Iron
ton Tuesday.
A most delightful pienic was en
joyed Saturday at Spanish Port by
the following: Mrs. John Duffy and
sons, Mrs. F. A. Daniels. Mrs. Frank
(Continued on Page 8.)
OUR FOUNTAIN SYRINGES
are the kind that don't leak. They
cnme in various sizes with all kinds
of nozzles. sprays. etc. You'll fipd
threm in our rubber goods department.
where all the best things in such ar
ticles may always be had at reason
r able prices.
CENTRAL DRUG STORE
FRANK M. CALLAGIIAN, Prop.
Pelican Avenue and Olivier Street
WM. LEIBE REFRIGERATOR MANUFACTORY
MANUFACTURERS OF
Refrigerators for All Uses
Refrigerating Plants :: Cold Storage Boxes
Office aid Salesre: 740 PeNras St. Faster: 1024-26 lane St.
New Orleans
A-VARDED HIGHEST HONORS.
;.ý rt 11it nI --r .. t _
,t ,, "l "1I: ir. \I i , I.,
I.i'liL n \,rth TI t ha,.if r L.. t. ,
-nuth. \u l :-ta \\ 'rton I -.-' 1r
thll t. I.u i;h. I ai.-h . H i,-; ii.,' \ t lur
I ra It r""'. .l !, it . ik -:t;:. I.aur,.l -it
\r-;tca I. :i itr, alu\. '.111r,:: itarichi
ch. (Ior , Brown. (urr - or :lki..an
'!,Sr (' 1, . n .IIp h !: .ft ,i!,.'
\\ 1iiE (,thnu . .\i! n I' ls., .lihe I'ali
t,,or-= I',r,"/. 1.i, n K in:, l l'nri i
,' tta. -ai a,lor , l i, i -. F:art \\a_
n,.r \\1111, " ):I,.,,,ahl . b ,rt.l I I , in, i
1 l, 1·.- 1. 1 ·, hlu t ,r,. hl. \\ itli: ,tm T ,-al
S UB-REGISTRATION OFFICE OPEN.
utl!- r4- istration .,1il, es , r, o.i,*n ,ld
in rtach of the .-vtuitt-nu wart- in th,
city Mluila>. Ma' 1. to run for thirty
daIs. ItzCistrar of Voter: ~ont;,t
cry Saturdlay an otlllllulnced th, filliowin.l
hloation and cl,rk in car-e of th,'
F"ifte.tntl \\ard V. :- . Esillse. ;l7
.11ix street.
SURPRISE SPRADA.
()One of the biggest e.ent. of its
kind ever witnessed in Algiers was
the surprise party to Mr. and .Mrs.
John Sprada on last Thursday eve
ning. The affair was gotten up hby
Mr. John Kappler and Mr. Theo ().
Ilotard. and was in honor of Mr. and
Mrs. Sprada's recent marriaee. The
party collected at the corner of .\lix
and Powder streets, and headed by
the Gretna Military Band. marched
to martial strains anti with flags and
fireworks through the streets of .\l
giers. stopping at various places to
add to the crowd and serenade, and
finally wound up. six hundred stron:.
at Sprada's popular catering estab
lishment. to the great surprise of Mlr.
anti Mrs. Sprada. Introdutctory re
marks were made by Mr. Ilotard. aft.
er which Mr. .Kal-pler presented the
surrrieed couplile with a handsome aft
sr dinner set. Mr. Sprada. in Ger
man, reciprocated the complimentls,
and all joined in a toast to the lont
life. health and prosperity of the
newly married couple. The party
then proceeded to take possession of
.Mr. Sprada's place, and the refresh
mt-nts. arriving on two wagon loads.
were brought out. To use Mr. Kap
pler's own words. "If anybody didn't
ha\e a good time. it was their own
fault." and the merriment continued
until it was time to go home. Such
a grand demonstration speak. well
for Mr. Sprada's popularity and of the
high esteem in which his friends hold
him.
MRS. W. N. HUFF.
On last Saturday afternoon Mrs. W.
N. Huff, of Vallette street, was strick
en with apoplexy while on Eliza
street. The paralysis first affected
both her legs and one of her arms.
She was taken home in an auto and
Dr. King was ilmmediately called to
attend. lie found Mrs. Hluff in a very
serious condition and only a little
while later the blood clot had spread
unconscious.
Shie remained uncons'ious until the
end came yesterday morning. Mrs.
Hluff's death is indeed a shock to her
numerous friends here and they deep
ly sympathize with the bereaved fam
ily in their deep loss.
Mrs. Huff was fifty-four years of
age and had resided in our district
for many years, where she made nu
merous friends. Besides her husband.
two sons. W. N. Huff. Jr.. andti Lon
Iliff. togethele with several erand
children, survive. The body was ship
ped to Heesville, Texas,. for burial.
Sterling and Plated
Silverware Offerings
SECOND FLOOR
S t r :,- r.I 1. , , r - I n ' r. , t. . ,. ',. . . t
r i -'
F-"t " J'! t , \ ;' i , ; ,- .''" '-. 'r : ." .+r ,
",it r I'.ldt 1 t , ,I t,, . ', ; : 5c
i r I r 125
- I, r t .l i t r i - .i . I i..tr i . . i, t .5 c
ill r I anm rt TF l, - t , ,' I it. ,- i It 50c
.illvr P'latd Ta ' :,h. ',,t --. , trir ,l, pl t,. -' !,tll ,. ! llll , .250c
l ,r l'at,.ed Htre,.ti 'l' ra,,+ ,; v ru;,:, platt,. ,.ah t1.35
Silb,,r h.,. Cream Sp+ on. tripl, ;tla,. fancy s t it 98c
D. H. Holmes Co.
U..,. . b r. r... LIMITED a.r0.
Malrin.,L w end P/onU·rO". Apra II, 1dT.
TennisShoes
White IBlack Tan. High and
I.ow, with and without heels;
also Baby doll style. %lU sizes
and grades fromn
49c
VP
.Ill of our cus.toAmers will tell
you we save them money. Why
not you Iw our customer.
ONYX LINE OF H()SIERY.
HE C KYSOHOE
RE STORE
PATTEIRS)ON & VALL,,ETTE
STiEETS.
Beyond Disp ute There's ome
thing YOu want in This ... Rebuildin Sale
You must come in idon't delay your visit) and see what there is
for YOt in this Rebuilding Sale of ours.
The rebuilding made necessary by our rapidly-increasing business
is the cause of this olpirtunity being presented to you. A few days
more selling, and w we ill have disposed of this surplus stock we are
advertising.
"m CANAL
Successors to Cable Piano Co. STREET
SAL-CHO
THE IDEAL SALINE LAXATIVE AND ELIMINANT.
USED VERY SUCCESSFULLY IN THE TREATMENT
OF RHEUMATISM, GOUT AND ALL STOMACH, LI
VER AND KIDNEY DISORDERS.
-Put Up By
PETER RUPP
\!. [ t t I I r .... . :,lt'r:ti', iuln laxativc pr,,pertic -.
It i, -. i ialI in'i ,ti t I a- lnl ,li'ii ult in the treatment of
TrilC mlliati-n :al , ' It i; al, l ry lc. fi<ial in ,mi tia
tion anI , iti n ri-in fr e :n ,i, ,r crcr , ITOnacl avii
imlpcrf.ct li tutn.
With each purchase of a bottle of SAL
CHO we will give absolutely free a genuine
Durham Duplex Safety Razor.
EU Pd UPp, Dr ug
Bermuda E, E a __Verret t6:*.
"ELITE"
Products Represent
SOLARI'S
Standard of Purity and Quality
If the Brand Is
"ELITE"
And SOI..\lAI'S name is on the
label, ae gaurantei' tIhat 'tis of
the
Very Best Quality and
Absolutely Pure
lBeginning Ma I1st, both of
our stores will i lose at t;
o'clock. Naturday at 7 o'clock.
