State Historical Society
aney County Republican
Vol. 'J i. Xo. '.'.'.
KOKSYTII, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, MAY 4, llUti.
Four Pages.
Heard at tha National Capital
A familiar face and figure recently
s?en at the Capitol was former Gover
nor W. R. Stubbs of Kansas, who cal
led around to extend greetings and
meet a few old acquaintances. In
commenting on the political situation
Gov. Stubbs said: "I believe the Re
publicans and Progressives will be
united this year and that a man will be
named at Chicago who will be satisfac
tory to all Republicans. There is not a
shdaow of doubt that if such a man is
named hewill be elected. The people ol
this country are not satisfied with De
mocracy. The farmers in particular
have made up their minds that they
will not be fooled again. The elev
enth hour conversion ol the Democra
tic party to a non partisan tariff coin
mission will fool no one. It is not a
commission that believes in the policy
of protection that the President wants,
but one to revise the tariff for revenue
only. We shall have very urgent
need of a prptective tariff during the
next few years of we are to guard against
the cheap productions of Europe."
"There was altogether too much of
the sptctacular about this recent mes
sage of the President," said a Demo
cratic member in the cloak room, who
is a well known advocate of peace.
"The fact that the President came to
the capitol and made a big show over
the message detracts from its effects
and makes it smack of the political.
Especially is the inconsistency of the
President clearly shown when he up
braids Cangress for daring to suggest
the warning of Americans off from bel
ligerent ships, when he himself rushes
to the capitol to add scenic effects to
his recent message."
The time of the adjournment of the
present session of Congress is quite an
absorbing theme among members of
all parties up on Capitol Hill. Sen
ator Kern's recent announcement that
Congress will be here until September,
dropped a bomb among the fiiends of
of early adjournment. One of the
men who thinks Congress is going to
get through early is Representative
Rainey of Illinois, ranking man on the
Ways and Means Committee. He sets
the time as July 1st. Speaker Champ
Clark, early in the session, predicted
Congress would still be here late in
the Fall. Indications are pointing to
the fact that there is little hope that
the present session will end before
August 15th and Senator Kern's date
is being regarded as the earliest likely
moment ol getting away.
"We have just had some of the
most enthusiastic county conventions
aid one of the largest state conven
tions ar.d one of the largest state con
ventions in Illiuois in the history of the
Republican party," said Representative
Thomas S. Williams of that state.
"The county conventions were the
best we ever had. Everybody was
confident and the atmosphere was
filled with enthusiasm. The attend
ance was unusually large and the party
spirit was one of great loyalty. The
Republicans of Illinois are once more
united and working in harmony and
next November the state is going to
roll up a tremendous majority for the
whole ticket."
"There is more complaint and fault
finding with the Post Office depart
ment under this administration than
ever before," said a Pennsylvania
Representative in Congress to a little
group of members on the floor. "Not
only in the rural delivery but in all
bran'hes of the service, including city
delivery, there has been a curtailment
and derangement of the service which
has caused dissatisfaction and criticism
The present Post Office Department
has been impregnated with a desire to
save money. In this effort the good
of the service has been of little mo
ment to the officials and as a result a
false economy has prevailed at the ex
pense of the service. The people cl
this country want efii:'.;ncy in the
handling cf '.he mail. They are net
in favor ol taking a step backward to
gave a few dollars. Not only farmers,
but many other people all over 'he
country will give their support to the
Republican party this fall on account
of the unproeressive policy of the
present post office managmcnt."
A progressive caucus recently held
in a Maine city comprised sixteen
men who proceeded to name nine
delegates and nine alternates to a
State cenvention. Wonder who the
other two were.
At the trade conference held in
Buenos Aires, Secretary William G.
McAdoo, of the Treasury is reported to
have favored the general use of the
metric system. The Secretary's man
ipulation of the net balance in the
general fund of the Treasury is about
all the confusion we can stand for a
while.
Fight Fire Blight now
Fire blight has appeared in the or
chards this spring and every affected
twig or branch should be removed be
fore the disease has a chance to spread.
During the last few years this disease
has done a great deal of damage in
pear and apple orchards and the Mis
souri Agricultural Experiment Station
finds it appearing again this spring.
Its effects are not usually observed by
the orchardist until May or June, when
many of the fruit clusters and young
young twigs begin to die suddenly as
if they had been scorched by fire.
The earlier symptoms which should
hive warned him to cut back the di
seased parts at once or the flow of a
gunilike or even a thin saplike liquid
from the bark, or the appearance of
beads of honey-like material on the
newly formed apples. This material
may spread like a soft varnish, cover
ing the fruits instead of remaiuing in
beads.
The only known means of checking
blight is to cut and burn all the affec-
ed parts before the disease is carried
to the rest of the orchard by bees and
other insects, or has a chance to spread
through the twigs themselves. The
prunning tools may carry the germs if
not carefully disinfected by either dip
ping them into a 1 or 1000 solution of
corrosive sublimate, or wiping them
with a rag or sponge which has been
dampened with such a solution carried
in a ymall bottle for this purpose.
Corrosive sublimate also called bi
chloride of mercury may be purchas
ed at any drug store in small bottles
containing about twenty-five tablets
apiece with directions for dissolving
these tablets and making solutions of
any desired strength.
Pruning tools should be disinfected
after pruning each tree so that the di
sease will not be carried from tree to
tree, and should be disinfected still
oftenr than this to avoid carrying the
disease from one part to another of the
same tree, as the pruner finds that he
s cutting through diseased wood.
The blight usually passes the winter
in pear trees, but may live through in
Jonathan, Ingram, Yellow Transparent
and similar apple trees.
Orchards affected by blight last year
should be very carefully watched now,
and pear trees which show blight scars
or cankers should be examined first of
all. Blisters may form under the bark,
then burst after the trees have begun
to grow. From these places there
flows the honey like liquid which con
tains the bacterial germs of blight
which the bees and other insects are
likely to carry from tree to tree. The
bees carry these germs to the flower
clusters tf pears and apples and the
newly formed fruits may have the
beaded or varnished appearance which
they are growing should be cut and
burned at once.
The grower should not wait for the
blighted part to die and turn brown or
black. To keep the blight Irom
spreading through the whole orchard
it is necessary to find and cut out the
few early infections here and there.
These early infections may be located
by observing fruit clusters where the
stems of the fruit look slightly dis
colored and show the sticky exuda
tions. J. C. Whitten, Missouri Col
lege of Agriculture.
Canada Should Beware
From all appearance, the same influ
ences, that are operating with the pur
pose of involving the United States in
serious, complications with Mexico are
striving to provoke party bitterness and
to bring about a government crisis in
Canada. Motives need not be inquir
ed into nor dwelt upon here; the fact is
that in Canada as in Mexico, to every
grain of unsatisfactory truth concerning
internal aff.iirs there is a ton of cheap
sensationalism, composed in the main
malicious rumor and falsehood. It is a
most essential thing that the United
States shall avoid intervention in Mex
ico at this time; hence secret influences
arrayed against all that the United
States is supposed to stand for are tire
lessly employed in machinations cal
culated to bring about conditions that
will compel intervention. It is a
most essential thing that all elements
and parties in Canada shall stand unit
edly for the common cause at this
time; hence secret influences arrayed
against that cause are employing every
means within their reach to spread sir
spicson, distrust, discord and division
in the Dominion.
From the beginning of the war down
to a very recent period Canada worked
as a unit to one end. Partisanship
was early flung to the winds. A truce
between the government and the op
position was declared at Ottawa. The
provinces followed the good example.
There remained, of course, everywhere
unreconsiled professional politicians to
whom factionalism and partisanship
are bread and meat, and with whom
discontent is stock in-trade. But the
great body of public men and private
citizens of the Dominion were ready to
surrender all personality and prejudice
and partisanship and to devote them
selves to their country and its mother
land. The marvelous results of these
sacrifices and of this devotion have
been recorded. They have surprised
Canada itself, they have won the un'
concealed admiration of its nearest
neighbor, and they have earned the
praise and gratitude of the empire and
its allies. One who from the first has
been at the head and front of Canada's
awakening into a new na'.ionhood, who
has been the inspiring figure cf a
wonderlul revival of patriotic fervor,
because of masterly management of a
delicate and difficult situation at home,
was recently called into counsel abroad.
No sooner had he left the country than
all the forces of mischief he had held
back for eighteens months were turned
loose, so that the Canada that was striv
ing as one before his departure was
pulling apart on his return.
The merits ol the contentions di
viding Canada at present are not to be
considered at this time. What must
be considered at this time. What
must be considered, as we view it
from a distance, and we believe, with
entire impartiality, are conditions as
they are reported. The public thought
of Canada is disturbed, distracted,
confused, just as the bogus Mexican
news mongers would have disturbed,
distracted and confused the public
thought of the United States, within
the last two or three weeks, if extraor
dinary steps had not been taken to
render powerless the falsehoods flood
ing the newspapers. Instead of treach
ery on the part of Carranza and his
followers, instead of ambushes, instead
of alarms intended to create the im
pression that the United States had
been grossly betrayed by one it meant
to serve, Canada has been filled with
whisperings of perfidy on the part of its
trusted servants. Listen, for instance,
to this from Ottawa: "Rumors of
of political scandal fill the Canadian
spring air. The confidence with which
partisans declare they have damaging
evidence against this or that man pres
ages interesting events soon." And
this: "There has suddenly appeared
in the newspapers closest to the party
leaders on an outburst of violent par
tis.wfhip which in peace days
would be regarded as the shadow ol
an approaching appeal to the country.
Perhaps it means a sudden election
even in these anxious war days, de
spite the fact that Parliament has voted
itself another year's existence.
How familiar it seems to read that
"beneath the surface some sort of an
upheaval is taking place." Of course
it is beneath the surface. The forces
operating to bring about a bitter nat
ional election in Canada at this time
could not safely operate above the sur
face, yet into the light must they be
drawn. In this connection e have this
highly illuminating incident as chron
icled by the Toronto correspoudent of
the New York Tribune:
"A correspondent signing himself
"Americanadian" writes to a local pa
per complaining that on visiting pic
ture shows recently he has more than
once heard the stars and stripes stren
uously hissed. The eeitor in reply
says he has been attending theaters in
Toronto for twenty-five years. In that
time he has seen a good deal
ol the stars and stripes, but has never
seen or heard it treated disrespect
fully." The point the designers of evil have
in view, it hardly need be emphasized,
is to get the nations of the North
American continent so involved in
difficulties among themselves that noth
ing occuring elsewhere will be of im
mediate interest to them. It does not
matter much whether the fomentation
is internal or partially or wholly inter
national. The lamentable thing is
that well meaning people in Mexico,
the United States and Canada are per
mitting themselvei to be used as tools
by the mischief-makers. Canada may
rest assured, and this is something for
its thinking people to remember con
stantly, a general election, with all the
distraction and discord and division it
would entail in present circumstances,
would be no less welcome to the influ
ences arrayed against the cause it has
espoused than would United States
intervention in Mexico. Christian
Science Monitor.
Who Butchered Bryan?
The butchering of Bryan in the Ne
braska primaries is as easily traceable
to its source as the famous killing of
Cock Robin, and the witnesses are
more numerous.
Bryan was slaughtered in his home
State by the adherents of Wilson, and
there are no sighs of regret echoing
from the White House because of the
result. Bryan made Wilson four years
ago, to be sure, but there has never
been a minute when Wilson felt truly
grateful. Ou the contrary, he always
chafed under the consideration ol
Bryau's power in the party; and he was
glad when occasion permitted him to
raise a false issue upon which Bryan
left the Cabinet. The contemplation
of Bryan in the Democratic national
convention of 1916 has never been
a pleasing prospect to Wilson; for he
has vivid knowledge of Bryan's ability
to sway conventions to his own man
ner of thinking. And Bryan's manner
of thinking is not Wilson's manner nor
Bryans principles the principles of
Wilson. We do not doubt that the
quiet tip was sent from the White
House to Nebraska to defeat Bryan.
Bryan accordingly has been de
feated but only for a seat in the St.
Louis convention. The treachery of
the Wilson men in Nebraska has tem
porarily overcome the unsuspecting
friends of Bryan, but the latter will be
more alert next time Their hour will
come when they go to the polls in
Novembet. They will not forget who
butchered Bryan this spring and the
fall killing which they will make will
be gratifying gory.
Homer Brett, U. S. Consul at La
Guaira, Venezuela, says in his report:
"The United States sold more agri
cultural implements in Venezuela in
the first six months of 1915 than in
any entire year. This trade has been
benefited because of the good pro
spects the war has brought to the
Venezuela sugar industry." This is
quoted as an excellent example of
what is meant by the indirect action of
the European struggle on our present
prosperity. It is not a question of
politics.
J. II. PARRISH, Pbssident. J. W. REESE, Vici-Pssident.
S. W. BOSWELL, Cashier.
TANEY COUNTY BANK,
Forsyth, Missouri.
Capital Stock
Surplus and Undivided Profits
A General Ranking
Collections a Specialty
C. W. MOOKE, President. F. M. HALL, Vice-President.
A. B. MOORE. Cashier.
Bank of Hollister,
Hollister, Mo.
Capital Stock - - - $lo,ooo.oo.
Surplus and Undivided Profits, $2,000
Transacts a General Banking Business.
VU PAY l'KH CKXT INTKKKST OX TIM K HKPOSITS.
J. Li. MILLS, lVsident
Bank of Bradleyville
Bradleyville, Mo.
Capital Stock Paid In,
Surplus Earned,
Collections
WE SOLICIT
J. L Mi: LION, i:. G- MILLS,
J. T- Mt T1ILKSON,
Fine Place to Fish
Hotel Forsyth,
Forsyth, Mo.
Rates $2.00 per Day
S. E. MILLER,
Agency Frank
iBEssssssass
Room With Bath,
$1.25 to $1.50
- THE
METROPOLITAN
Springfield's Oldest First Class Hotel
Jesse Nance, Manager
"MEET ME AT THF MET."
Springfield, - - - Missouri.
3S25SSJII
$25,000.00.
$40,000.00.
Business Transacted
Your Patronage Solicited
M. li. SLUSHLK, Cashier
$10,000 0?
2,000.0?
a Specialty
YOUR BUSINESS
J. Ii. MILLS,
M. Li. SLUSHLU, Directors
Fine Place to Stop
Proprietor.
B. Smith Laundry
Room Without Bath,
75c to $1.00
