THE BARM -.DAILY TIM
ES
VOL. XX NO. 43.
BA11RK, VERMONT, THURSDAY, MAY' 4, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
TWO SURVIVORS
IN TRENCH WON
BY THE FRENCH
LORIMER PLANS
TO REIMBURSE
BANK DEPOSITORS
Advance by the Latter at
. Dead Man's Hill Continued
During the Night, Accord
ing to the Official State
ment Issued by Paris Cen
sor Active Fighting West
. of Meuse
JGRENADE BATTLE IN
AVOCOURT WOOD
Another Contingent of Rus
sian Troops Reached Mar
seilles To-day and Was Ac
corded a Joyous Reception
by the French People and
Military Authorities
Acquitted of Charge of Embezzlement
and Conspiracy to Defraud, Former
U. S. Senator is Going to Make
Good Their Losses.
Chicago, May 4. William Lorimer, for.
mer United States senator, who was uc
quited last night of embezzlement and
conspiracy to defraud in connection with
the failure of the bank of which he was
president, will start accumulating money
to reimburse) the depositors of the bank.
The jury held that Lorimer had no
part in any violation of the banking
laws in connection with the career of
the Lasulle Street bank or of the crim
inal laws in the tank's failure and that
he had no knowledge of such violations.
PLOT, MILITARY ENTERPRISE.
Paris, May 4.-r-T1ie French advance at
Dead Man's Hill on the Verdun front
continued during the night, the war office
announced to-day. Two Germans who
were captured in one trenche said that
they were the only survivors there. There
was active fighting west of the Meuse,
a grenade engagement in Avocourt wood
and French artillery destroyed a muni
tions depot at Grande Dune, Belgium.
"A Brilliant Assault."
, The official statement last night told
of the capture of German positions
northwest of Dead Man s Hill, lhe re
port reads:
. est of the Meuse there was a vio
lent bombardment in the sector of Avo
court. Toward the end of the afternoon
our troops, by a brilliant assault, cap
tured German positions northwest of Le
Mort Homine. We took about 100 pns
oners and four machine guns.
"On the rest of the front the artillery
activity was intermittent."
Germans Admit a Loss.
hierlin, May 4. Jt is officially an
liouneed that the French have obtained a
foothold in one of the German advanced
posts south of Dead Man's bill.
METZ POPULATION
LEAVING THE TOWN
Trustworthy Information Points to
Significant Movement Back of the
German Lines in Lorraine.
London, May 4. Reuters Amsterdam
correspondent telegraphs that trust
worthy information says that the civt
population is evacuating Metz, Lorraine.
FIFTH RUSSIAN CONTINGENT.
' Received at Marseilles with Military and
Popular Manifestations.
Marseilles, France, May 4. More Rus
sian soldiers arrived this morning and
proceeded to Camp Mirabeau. They were
received with military and popular receptions.
ZEPPELIN WAS SMASHED.
Some Occupants Jumped into the Sea
Near Norway.
London, May 4.iThe Zeppelin L-20 has
been completely destroyed and driven
shore on the western side of Hafso firth,
Norway, according to advices from Stav
anger. Some of the crew were rescued.
The Zeppelin L-20 passed north of
Fnndnaes about 10 o'clock in the morn
ing, says a Reuter dispatch from Stav-
ngnr. She was flying at a low altitude
end was in a damaged condition. Five
or six men were seen to jump from the
airship. Boats put out to their assist
ance and the commander and one seaman
tvere rescued and taken to a hospital.
The Zeppelin was then driven over the
hilltops and against a hillside. Its after
lody broke in two and part of it fell to
the ground. Home of the crew jumped or
vere hurled out. The Zeppelin then rose
a little and was driven westward, but
the bag of the dirigible collapsed in the
center and the airship descended rapidly.
A torpedo boat, which had been follow
ing along the coast, went to its assist
ance and rescued three men still in the
cabin. A fourth man had jumped out
Miortly before.
Of the rescued men, three officers and
two non-commissioned officers wore
brought ashore; the wheresbouts of the
rest of the crew is not known.
The Zeppelin was completely destroyed
and driven ashore on the western side of
the firth, n'ir its outlet to the sea.
According to Grand Jury Finds on Well-
and Canal Case.
Xew York, May. 4. John Devoy, edi
tor of the Gaelic-Americun and John
T. Ryan, if Buffalo attorney, were men
tioned in superseding indictments hand
ed down here yesterday by the federal
grand jury which investigated the al
leged German plot to blow up the Well
and canal. The men were not indicted
but are alleged to have had cognizance of
the conspiracy
Devov, a leader in this country in the
movement for Irish independence, is
sued a statement saying he would an
swer the charge editorially in his news
paper. 1
The new indictments go into the de
tails of the alleged plot and for the first
time in pro-German conspiracy cases
state that it was aimed to assist the
German emperor. The indictments are
against Captain Franz Von Papcn, re
called German military attache;. Wolfe
Von Igel, his then secretary; Captain
Hans Tauseher, agent of the Krupps in
the United States and husband of Mine.
Gadski, the opera singer; Alfred A. Fit-
zen and Constantino- Covani. Von Igel
and Captain Tauseher are the only ones
under arrest.
Named as co-conspirators for the first
time, but not indicted, are Uorst Von
Der Goltz, former major in the army of
Villa and a confessed spy; Carl Tuehend-
ler, alias Tucker, and Frederick Joachim
Buzz. These three disclosed details of
the conspiracy to the federal authorities
and have been granted immunity in re
turn for their willingness to appear as
government witnesses. Tuchendler and
Von Der Goltz are being detained at
Ellis island while Buzz is being kept in
seclusion by federal agents.
The indictments allege that the plot
was a military enterprise, and tho aim
CRISIS
COMES
TO-DAY
Germany's Reply to Ameri
can Note Is Expected by
Ambasasdor Gerard in
Berlin and Will Be at Once
Transmitted to President
Wilson for Consideration
TUBERCULOSIS "MOVIES."
To Be Exhibited in the Small Towns of
Vermont.
Burlington, May 4 The Vermont state
board of health will open a tuberculosis
campaign next Monday, which will cover
the back districts of the state. I his
campaign will be educational, teaching
GRANTED USE.
OF RAILWAYS
lying among his men directing the fire
was wounded
Meanwhile the Americans had got the
range of the Mexicans on the crest and
checked their lire. (Several freshly madi
graves on this crest, found next day, tes-
ificd to the Americans aim. One Mex
ican leader on a gray horse roue into
sight on the skyline half a dozen times
but seemed to be millet proof. Ilw gray
methods of treating and taking care ujld No Time WaS Set f 01 I ,,,ou"t' WHI" 'he last living object the
ISSUE MUST NOT RUN
AFTER THIS WEEK
President Wilson Will Break
Off Diplomatic Relations
at the End of That Time if
Germany Does Not De
clare Intention to Stop
Sinking Peaceful Ships
those who are afflicted with this plague.
lhe lectures will be given by Harold XV
Sloeum, at present connected with the
American Red Cross in Aew ork and
who has previously done this same work
in Minnesota under the auspices o.'. the
Minnesota board of health, and who ha
done similar tuberculosis work in New
York state.
The motor generator and moving pic
ture apparatus owned by tho board of
health will be taken on this campaign
This motor generator is a combination
gasoline and electric dynamo with which
the current necessary to run the moving
picture machine is made. It is on a
truck which is drawn about the country
by horses and is probably the only one
used for this purpose' in any of the
states. The apparatus will be taken
into small towns situated off the rail
road tracks, the first lecture to be given
at Duxbury in Washington county next
American Withdrawal
. from Mexico
CONFERENCE REPORT
Americans distinguished before darkness
ended the fight. Inis horse was found
wounded next day at Santo Tomas,
where Manuel Baca, the Villa leader, was
killed by Leondro Alvareb, a Mexican
pacifist, for the price of 20 silver pesos
(about if American money), lhe aiex
icans Mid the horse was Baca's.
IS SATISFACTORY IN DEFAULT OF $500
MAY TAKE 1,500 DAYS
IN SELLING CASE
Washington Officials So Ex
press Themselves Obre
gon Also Is Pleased
Mrs. Jose Sancipriano Reversed Former
Plea of Not Guilty Just as Jury Was
About to Hear Evidence in
Barre Court.
of the defendants was the obstruction o
the military operations of the king
Great Britain and Ireland and the fur
thering of the military operations of th
emperor of Germany by means of bombs,
dynamite and other explosives to blow
up and destroy the Welland canal, a tan
adian waterway.
The charge is made that Captain Von
Pa pen, Von Igel and Captain Tauseher
provided the initiative and funds for the
expedition and that. Fritzcn and Covan
were tssave been the perpetrators with
the assistance ot five other men, uer-
man subjects" engaged by Von Der Goltz
in Baltimore in August, 1914. The lead
ers, the indictments state, supplied the
others with automatic revolvers, am
munition, bombs, dynamite and other ex
plosives.
The accusation is repeated that tap-
tain Tauanher purchased from the lo
eal office of the Dul'ont company 300
pounds of "sixty per cent dynamite to
have been used in the work of destruc
tion and that the explosive was obtained
bv Von Der Goltz on Tauscher's written
order.
GRAIN CONFISCATED.
Act of
Entente Allies Said
Caused Famine.
to Have
Berlin, via wireless. May 44. Athens
dispatches state that the entente allies
confiscated gTain at Corfu destined for
northern Epirus, and that there is conse
quently a famine and deaths from star
vation.
SiEKS HIS RELEASE.
MANY CASUALTIES IN ENGLAND.
Tuesday Night and Wednesday After
noon in Air Raids.
London, May 4. The Zeppelin air raid
on the northeast roast of England and
multicast coast of Scotland Tuesday
night resulted in 3tf casualties. Six men
and three women were killed. This an
rouncement m made officially yester
day. One hundred bombs were dropped.
A German seaplane yesterday after
rnn made an air raid on Deal. No fa
talities resulted, but two persons were
Injured. The official statement concern
ing the raid says the win low of a
rhurch were broken, the rxf of a house
Mown off and a public house seriously
damaged. Altogether seven bombs were
dropped. Th injured per- ns were a
ln n and a woman.
The aeroplane approached Deal from
the direction of Kamgat an 1 alter
'n ppng the bmh retreated, pursued'
It Bnti.4 air craft.
Socialist Wants Doctor Karl Liebknecht
to Be Set Free.
Berlin, via London, Miy 4. A Berlin
Socialist introduced a resolution in the
Reichstag requesting the chancellor to
release Doctor Karl Liebknecht and sus
pend proceedings -until after adjourn
JIMINEZ "SHOWS PEPPER."
Declares Santo Domingo in State of Siege
and Removes Seat of Government.
Santo Domingo. May 4. General .Tim -
inez, who was impeached ns president of
the republic, has declared the capital in
a state of siege and the removal of the
government to San Geronimo.
Washington, D. C, May 4. Secretary
of State Lansing announced that Am
bassador Gerard expects to receive tho
German reply to the American note cm
submarine warfare to-day.
Secretary LanBing held a long confer
ence with President Wilson and Col. E.
M. House last night. The president and
his advisors arc keeping their minds opeu
while they wait for the German note,
It was authoritatively stated that tho
issue would have to be cleared up this
week jf diplomatic relations with Ger
many were to continue.
The president is known to be unalter
ahlv determined to adhere strictly to the
position assumed bv the United States
in its demand that Germany' immediately
declare and effect an abandonment of Us
present methods of submarine warfare
No proposal of anv kind will be ac
cepted 'by the American government. U
is said, unless it includes a declaration
of intention to atop sipking peaceful
ships at once. In this connection, press
dispatches to the effect that new orders
to submarine commanders would be told
of in the German note, were read with
interest by officials, but comment was
withheld pending the disclosure of the
nature of the instructions.
Colonel House, who discussed the sub
marine issue with German officials while
abroad for the president several months
ago, arrived here yesterday morning. His
coming to Washington was regarded as
significant.
On a. reversal of her former nlea of not
Washington, D. C, May 4- Major- Uujtv to a charge of selling liquor ille-
Monday, the campaign to cover a period General Scott's report of his conference gaily, Mrs. Jose Sancipriano was fined
of two months, with four or five lectures with General Obregon was laid before 300 and COBt" "hen arraigned before
a week. ., . .. . . ' Magistrate If. V". Scott in city court this
Besides the reels devoted to tuber- ' , " v"TI L.T':. " . forenoon. Representation made to the
..u.r,.k u.m-.... cou,t indicate that the woman will have
ICS. bo I vour water. . first aid worK, ' . " .. : .. . ;, i 10 serve rno alternative sentence oi
an .r::.. . . " " .v.. r:-': .....
Mexican railways ana imi no lime us
set for the withdrawal of American
troops.
After a conference with President Wil
son, Secretary of War Jiaker said that
no announcement of the Scott report was
MAN HUNTENDS
IN A CAPTURE
Badly Battered and Ex
hausted, John Elliott Was.
Found at Roland Mills, Ct.
THO' HEAVILY ARMED,
HE DID NOT RESTr,
He Is Charged w; vlurder
of George .f.js and '
Sybil Pettis
toothache and others, numbering in
eleven.
HOTEL DESTROYED..
Thompson, Conn., May 4 John Elliott,
tho farm hand who has been sought for
two days by posses as the alleged mur
derer of Miss Sybil Pettis and her fa
ther, George Pettis, was captured this
morning at Roland .Mills, where a farm
er found the man exhausted in his shed.
Elliott made no attempt to escape, ilia
$20,000 Blaze on Lyndeboro, N. H, Moun
tain Seen Ten Miles Away,
Lyndeboro, X. H., ' May 4. The Pin
nacle house on the top of Lyndeboro
mountain, was destroyed by lire that
started ut 11:30 last night. The blaze
was seen for miles in every direction and
was plainly visible in Milford and Wil
ton, each at least 10 nulea away
An automobile engine-was sent from U.fl wimeelf . SatUfien1 with W.
M : i .- 1 i... :1 - ,1 , . . I . 1. . I I "
.Llliuru, out jaifi?u l-' i rnui iir.iv, as 1110 I . ,
roads were in bad condition. gotiatlong.
The place has not been occupied since El Paso. Tex.. May 4. General Obre-
Iast summer, when it wa opened for a gon, Mexican minister of war, last night
tew weeks only. Mnce that time it has mued a statement to the Aesocia
been boarded up and there has been no Press in-which he said:
caretaker on the premises, ilie cause of
days in the house of correction at Rut
land, or three days for every dollar of
her fine which remains unpaid. The San
cipriano woman has five children, one of eyes were nearly closed and his face
whom, the youngest, wag permitted to aml ncck were cut indicating that he
. 1 i it. 1 a- I... .
nanlim, her rWher W,,re the bar of m8 haVe lla1 a Sniggle With Tett.S,
ready but that the president might issue justice. Two barrels of beer and quanti- The fugitive had two automatic ro-
a statement later. He indicated that ties of liquor seized bv the police at the volvers with sixty rounds of ammunition
iiimi ueciwuH un hji mmius nau nui, wui Nancinnano itemises. 4 A hern nlaee. on xvi. n..
::. Tl ...r" APru 1 icmnea oy tne eourt t, found indicatjon, that his skull
IM I liriflP 111 inMI. II MM II tlll. IIHVI I J 1 . M.mHHAn!. '
Ti n. ? " . """"I'. had been fractured, and the belief is cx-
... ...... .w...v " .v.. w....-. 'I,-- I ocing iciu 10 pay ine costs iniposru m nrplo.H
the, destruction warrant. Mrs. Sanci
priano was committed to the custody of
the police Bnd will probably be trans
ferred to the house of correction to-night.
Grand Juror William H ishart was in
charge of the prosecution in tho proceed
ings against the woman and her husband
would
anoth
OBREGON OPTIMISTIC.
pressed that Klliott will not live to
stand trial. Elliott says his mind was a
blank following his fight with Pettis. He
will be arraigned later on the charge of
murder and will be ordered held pending
I the action of the grand jury.
A double funeral of the murder vic-
PROTEST LETTERS BY THOUSAND.
Form Letters Are Pouring Into Congress
Against Break.
Washington, D. C, May 4. Thousands
of printed form letters protesting against
any step which mav load to war with
Germany have been received by congress
men.
the fire is a mvsterv, as no one lives near
the place.
The building was built about four-
years ago. It was one of the biggest
summer hotels in the state, but owing to
its isolated position met with small pat
ronage. The hotel had about 100 rooms
and was completely furnished. The build-
Iw. 1 . 1 u;. f I.
n'K"t and the respondent were represented by ZLThl tu i ''"" -
iatcd t Wb.,. ( 'ver It was intimated to- hnuse whpre thft traKedy occurred. Rev.
a X I -,' i ntatea to j fa R M Congrega-
a. . I i. . t .u. .f l . ... . .
.- iub it-ami, "i me mniri ence i.riano will not be nresscd. Several Wlt-
terday with General Scott the atmos- nf.,sp, had been subnrenaed to the hear
phere seems now completely cleared up. n fo-dav and a jury of 12 was seated in
There is a much better feeling between the jury 'box when the resnonudenfs at-
Americans and Mexicans and all tension forney came in with the plea of guilty.
seems to nave vanisnea. ri he ifo Iowinir nirvmen were thereupon
An agreement has not been reached, pajd and discharged: W. H. Duthin, Peter
but everything is progressing favorably, Thom, S. I). Allen, Alex Milne, C. N
and I have the highest hopes that mat- Ken von. .Ismes T. Marrion, O. E. Phil-
tione church olhciated, and burial was
in the .mily lot in Putnam. The fu
neral was attended by delegations from
Quinetassette grange and Pomona grange,
in both of which Miss Pettis held office.
ACCEPT BURLINGTON INVITATION.
ing with contents was wholly destroyed, .,: u ..... f..i u.;..i. r-v i r nr v v
NATIVE OF BARRE.
It was reported on good authority that C'ave, Frank W. Jackson and Frank Nich-
I General Obregon had received assur- ols.
Vermont Funeral Directors & Embalm-
ers' Association to Meet There.
William B. UnderhUl, Aged 75, Died at
Manchester, N. H.
Manchester, N. II., Mav 4. William
B. Underbill. 75 years old, died at a pri
vate hospital here yesterday after a long
illness. Mr. L'uderhi'il had lived in Gol'a-
town for the past" 20 .rears, ever since
he fell from the roof of the Varney
school, fracturing his hip and sustaining
injuries from which he had never fully
recovered.
At the time, of the accident, Mr. L'n-
derhill was employed as manager for W.
Darrah, roofer, and was directing the
the roof of the west fcide
ance that the terms of the tentative
I agreement would be acceptable to Gen
eral Carranza.
A date for the annual convention of
the Vermont Funeral Directors it Em-
balmers' association, which held its year-
"DEVIL'S OWN PLAYGROUND"
repair of
building.
Mr. I nderhill was for a long time
agent of the Devonshire mills in Golfs
Falls, and was once overseer of weaving
n the old Manchester mills, previous to
the absorption of th it corporation by; the
Amofkeag Manufacturing company
He was also prominent in Grand Army
circles as a member of Jxuiis Bell post. act range
"SAVAGE REPRESSION"
Mr. Cnderhill enlisted in Co. H, lstf New
Hampshire regiment, on August Hi, 1861.
He came home with the company and
Te-enlisted Sept. 2fl. this time as a pri
vate in the 1st Xew Hampshire battery.
He was mustered out on September 2o.
Disclosed on Licensed Place.
Disclosures on two licensed liquor cs
tablishmcnts were made by Matt Matson hy meeting in llarre last year, was fixed
when arraigned with four others to an- at a session of the executive committee
swer to intoxication charges to-day. Jlat- at Hotel Barre Wednesday afternoon
son. who recently figured as a prominent This year's convention is to be held in
n w.1 vtr - a K T-: .J 1 -. 1 . i i I . . ' . ... ... ...
wneie inere was iin-iu-uin jrigawag witness in proceedings Hgamsi a uugoce i Turlington Aug. 30 and 31 and JSept. 1, an
in Mexico. avenue woman, pleaded guilty to wing invitation to meet in the Queen City bav
liin nanillini nnmKUm anil lit- rPOlV TO I miT wwn ttvtanrtnrf hv li Kl.rlmfrtnn liia
Field Headquarters, April '29. by mo- onestions from the crand iuror. he'told I inn. Afn' .UM.i;ni, Tho vnt
tfir courier to GolumbUS, A. .M-, -May . lf hnrintr liouor at first and second clans fh ;nt-;t.-;nn .oa non!n, n,.
'""J- " license eswbiisnments on isorta juam present at the executive committee meet-
of the Americans went up the mountain sfreet yesterday. Matson was sentenced inir were: M. S. Rounds of this city, the
to serve 30 days in the county jaffftnd assoication president; A. K. Hale of
to pay a $15 fine and coeta. He was- ar- Bradford, the secretary; Frank J. Dwvcr
rested by Officer Ernest Houston. . y0 f Bnrlineton. C. A. Dodce of Lvndon
George Farnham. an Orange farnVr. ville and Harry XV. Morev of East Fair-
who was found asleep with a piece of I field
beef for a oil ow at the seminary campus I fino of fho moot otfroMiv. f(.t,ir. nf
(. ninuanua among towering mountains, nHst mfht, plesdetl guilty to a subsequent the convention is to be a moving picture
1 I.Ai-d 1 XI Kan. il a rrl.t f it ma I i . . 1 ...... . . . . . .
" " " . . onense ana arranged to pay a nne exhibit in which fi.O(M) feet ot reel, deniet-
J-or t wo hours Dodd s troops of the and cost, of 6.4.'). Farnham's horse.
seventh cavalry fought from an immense tethered to a pole in the rear of the be. shown. The rcW was manufactured
hollow with IwndiM on three sides, charg- Rrown block on Vnrlh fain street on I w vi, lfr. ,iia
! Jl!l J l. J . . . .. . . .. . . '
k -.-. ; k"'""" iiiiiv-u 'i"pednesuay auerrioon at 4 ociock, -was local associations and will be shown nt
millet puns in tne dust all about their found by the police this morning. Officer Burlinston for the first time in Xew Eng
feet, where the Mexicans had their ex- Harry Gamble arrested the man. Mi- land, esfenia v it was voted In pnmmi
f... . . I ,. . I , . .. . . . ... , I ... - r-
..TOUiruru ioi nt irn.iif,Pi I rSCV OT ItSVSVI le. SrreMed m itl.o eorv .. nf a riininnttM nr unH In
side with knives in their teeth during Col
George A. Dodd's battle with Villista
bandits on April 22 at Temoehic. .
"It wtaa the devil's own playground."
was Colonel Dodd's description of the
terrain of this battle in southwestern
Thev
S. Murb, was fined ?o and tuier. Burlington business men have
serve the alternative sentence, taken it nnnn themselves to provide an
RESIGNATION WITHDRAWN.
Abolition of Upper House of New South
Wales Parliament Left to People.
Sidnev. New South Wales. May 4.
The ministry has withdrawn its resigna
tion, and tiie question over the abolition
of the Parliament upper house has been
nihniitted to referendum.
ONLY THREE EXECUTED.
Pearce, MacDonagh and Clark Shot, Con
nolly is Wounded.
Dublin. Mav 4. It is established that
only three leaders of the rebellion were
executed-Penre. Mclnagh ami Clark
while Connolly was wounded.
Is Way Telegram to John Redmond Was
Sent from New York.
New York, Mav 4. Execution of the
eaders of the Dublin revolt was charac
terized as "savage repression" in a cable
message sent last night to dohn Red
mond, Nationalist leader in the House of
Commons, bv prominent supporters here
of the Irish parliamentary party. The
cablegram, signed by Capt. Stephen Mc-
rarland, president of the New Xork. Mu
nicipal Council of the 1 nited Irish.
cague, was as follows:
"Irish in America, contrasting execu
ion of Dublin leaders with treatment in
I'lster and South Africa, are revolted bv
his sign of reversion to savage repres1
sion.
John Devoy, editor of the Gaelic-Amer
ican, made public an editorial which will
ppear in this weeks issue of his paper.
n it he declared the men executed were
murdered" and that before "this war"
over Ireland will exact a heavy toll
for the "butchery."
50 bandits killed or wounded, against anloffiCer J,
American low of two dead and three costs wi
wounoeu. I Herbert, .1. Smith of Graniteville. arrest-1 fternrwn cniirlimmml u-hlln
iwo nights beiore this fight, the Amer- Pd iast nicrht bv Officer David Henderson. rfertaW era are in tile eitv. An mifomn
icans overtook the bandits at the Voqui-1 pleaded guilty to a first offense and went bile ride to Shelburne farms and other
vom mine, wnere iney were lying about to lail. Andrew Scott of Barre. arrested f ;ieroat h nn. nf at.
ioci 1 1 : .. V : .. - . f I l . . . n : . i . . : . . . . i . .-. ... .. . 1 ' "
.nut. 1..H...K inn --i.nr. ..... i. ii i tit hi I. ii rin, it-iunu n.e iinf M.irit-i in rv m ice r I enderson. paid a nne lor a tmri on
nernui served in .apt. e. i mer s sec-1 now iney ciaimen to nave wnipped tne first offense
tion and on his gun. I Americans at I olumbus and at fjucrrero.
He was born in Harre. 't., and camel Ihey showed big lumps of gold and eil
to Manchester at an early age. He was I ver taken from Mexican towns,
a member of the Manchester lodge, I. O. they asserted were spoils of war.
GIRL STRIKERS ACTIVE.
Ducked One Worker in Horse Trough
Near Pittsburg.
rittuhurg. May 4. Preisdent Herr.of
the Westinghonse cimpany, whoe plants
are closed by 1..KH) workers striking, has
announced that he could not discuss a
settlement until to morrow. One thou
and state troops are still on duty in the
Turtle creek valley. Workmen at other
plants have joined the strikers. Girl
strikers at the north side at lacked those
wanting to work and ducked one in a
horse trough.
Shortly liefore midnight, an outpost
ran in. breathless, exclaiming: "The
Americans are coming!
Scores of dark forms leaped through
the firelight, bugles blew and in 10 min
utes the whole bandit command had gal
loped out of town. When the cavalry
men came in they found two American
mining men. a Mr. Scyforth and another,
who had paid fK.OOO ransom to the ban
Middiebury. .May Middlebiiry dits.
opened junior week by winning a unani-I These Americans said the bandits were
mous decision over the I'niversity of I led bv Oindelero Cervante. Jesus Delev
V ermont last night in a debate upon "Re- ers, Cruz Dominguez and Manuel Baca,
solved. That the t'nited States should! who was killed bv a Mexican the follow
ask ABC powers to join her in defining ing Sundiv after the fight
and enforcing the Monroe Doctrine." The I Among them were followers of Julio
O. F. Survivors include a nephew, C. II.
Simpson of this city, and a niece, Mrs.
Gerrish of Maiden, Mass.
MIDDLEBURY DEBATERS WON.'
Defeated University of Vermont on Mon
roe Doctrine Question.
which LEtT UUT Ut H ILL.
HENRY MOONEY
CONTESTED IT
DIED AT AGE OF 26.
Brought Action in Washington County
Court Another Son, Walter Moon
ey, Was Also Left Out
Case Finished To-day.
judges were M. C. Wehbe'r, Prof. Isaac
Thomas and Mr. Olney, all from Rut
land. The affirmative was upheld by
lsham, Johnson and Yv nodward of er-
mont, and the negative bv fcrtmunds,
Floyd and Buffum of Middlebury.
SUICIDE BY ELECTRICITY.
Grasped Two Main Switches in Electric
vLight Plant.
Acosta and General Beltran. They were
remnants of all the best known Villa
commanders' veterans and at that time,
at least, the lat known band of Villa's
men whose nerve bad not been shaken
by defeat at Columbus. Guerrero and
Aguaa Calientes.
Saturday afternoon at 4:30 Dodd's
men. arriving at the southern rim of the
hill forming the cup in which the town
The Moonev will case, resulting from
the claim of Henry Moonev that his
mother's will was drawn in such a wav
thtjt he was not a beneficiary because of
the influence of other children, was com
pleted this forenoon in Washing
ton county court, in so far a the testi- that time he had appeared to enjoy fairly
Emelio Gtacobbi, Stonecutter, Died Yes
terday Afternoon.
Knielio Giacobbi. a stonecutter, died at
the home of Ins sister. Mis. R. Broggini,
of 05 Pleasant ctrcct yesterday afternoon
at"l o'clock. He is survived by three sis
ters. Mrs. Broggini, Miss F.nniiia Giacob
bi and Miss .lo-.ephine Giacobbi, and two
nieces, lolet anil Ueona Hrogginl.
The deceased was M vears of age nd
was the sun of Mr. and Mrs. Antonio Gia-,
eohbi, both ol whom died in this citv
some vears ago. He was born in Italy
and had been in this country for til
vears. He worked at his trade until
about three years ago, when ill health
made it advisable tor him to stop. Sim-e
mony was concerned and the jury was Uood health until last Saturday, when he
given the case tins aiternoon.
According to the provisions of the doc
ument, property in Montpelier was left
to several daughters, two sons. Henry
and Walter, not being recognized. In his
argument this forenoon. Attorney- Fred
L. Ijiird. representing the benclicjarics,
called attention to the fact tlmt while
Henry Moonev. the claimant, was un-
was taken suddenly in and grew eu-
(tantly worse until death occurred.
The funeral will be held JMiturdiiy aft
ernoon at 1 o clock irom the Uroggini
home. The burial will be in Hope cemetery.
bandit riding out of town. Ahead of
them they saw the main bodv waiting
Port. Jefferson. X. Y.. May 4. William behind rook to give battle. A machine
G. Wheeler, general manager of the Portjgun was placed to sweep this ridge while
leTTerson hleetne to., committed suicide the Americans rode down into the cup in
yesterday by placing his hands on the I pursuit. They dismounted in town, ad-
fwo main electric switches at the plant I vancinp on foot with rifles readv. led bv
and electrocuting himself. I troop I. and accompanied bv the two
y omner Gibson said he had learned guide.
Wheeler had been worrving recently over
of Temochie lies, saw the rear guard of donbtedly beloved by his parents, he
had done much to eaue them trouble
and they probably believed that he
would be better able to overcome his
WU1 Release Teutons.
London. May 4. -Neutral diplomatic
circles believe England will release the
AuMrians and liermsns sejed on t!ie
American steamer ( htna.
TWO AUTO VICTIMS.
Malcolm Strong, Playwright, and Clinton
Start, Author, ia aa Overturn,
lss Arreles. ( al . May 4. Maleoln
Mrwng. a f-UvwrigVt. and bet..n mjj.
TO SETTLE DIFFERENCES
Between Two Railroads and 5,000 of
Their Employes.
New York. May 4. A movement has
been started toward adjoMing the diTer
enees between the New York Central and
Nickel Plate railroads and .i.ooo tele
graphers and signalmen.
two damage suits brought against the
company by relatives of mej -who bad
been accidentally electrocuted, and de
cided it was a ea-e of suicide. Wheeler
was t4 vears old.
18S Death in Horpitali.
Ijondon, May 4 A Dublin dispatch
ays that there were death in hos
pitals. 6ft soldier and 1- civilians, as a
result of the revolt.
Then re.I.ly. one of the ri I leader.
i bliced to hae been !m. while at
f N .nrk. an author, were ki'l.
whe t ie,r aut'imr-b ie etf'.umr-l l.--t 'ci.-e. His bo.lv i reir'e-l n !... h.n
HUGHES ENDORSED.
Michigan
Republicans Smoothed Over
Their Differences,
lapsing. Mich.. May 4. Republicans of
Michigan, at a harmonious etate conten
tion here yesterisy. endorsed Justice
Charles E. Hughes tor president and
let-ted four delegates at Isrge to the na-
tf.nai convention. A dispute oer the n ,'r,e t, rvlav on the w .t ty ,. !
Trooper Killed By Sniper.
While still in town a trooper was hit
and mortally wounded. The bullet came
from the flank from a cave in a mountain
..verlooking Temochie. Out of a big
adobe chimney the troopa pulled a sniper,
the only one caught in the place.
fVhind the town, troop f, adtam-ed to
within range of the crest aboe. They
crossed the range in short ruhe, lying
down and firing, then advancing a few
yard.
Colonel Drxld. with bs stafT. rode
through the lone of fire, while bullets
fell within a vard or two of everv man
until they reached a small knoll beyond I
the town. From here, Iodd dire, ted the!
fight. Another machine gun was brought
temptations If left to his own resources.
The other son. Walter, who resided in
the West, ft was pointed out. never came
home when bis father or mother died and
for many years had failed to demonstrate
any signs of affection for his aged par
ent. The ease of Mary E. Dsrvy rs. Thom
as J. Burke has been entered as settled
and discontinued. .L Ward Carver ap
peared for the plaintiff and S. H. .Ia-k-
son for the defendant. o entry- has
been made in the ea-e of Edward H.
(1ieeer t. XV. K. I-aell, F. Bonazzi vs.
Ixiui N. Wood and Cress P.ro. Co. vs.
Chandler Motors of New F.ngland. bi:t
it was the Impression about the court
thst the caes would be entered as settled
and discontinued.
SEVERAL CASES DISPOSED OF
And Several Were Argued in Vermont
Supreme Court To-day.
Diiqwing of several cae listed on the
calendar for hearing ahead of the ca-e
t'.ken up. argument were made in su
preme court this forenoon in the (Tiit
tenden county esse of Western I'nion
Telegraph Co. vs. Burlington Traction
Co. The next case on the list for hearing
is All1! R. Beecher vs. Vermont Mutual
Fire Insurance Co., Essex county. Por
ter. Witters and Harvey appear for the
plaintiff and Fred L. Laird for the de
fcn.Unt. In the lower court the plaintiff
secured a judgment for fiiil.67 damages.
DIED AT EAST BARRE.
START AT RUTLAND
Together With Many Other Places for
50-MJe Cavalrymen's Race.
1 I lit. . i-i- v."- nn'T L .1 r fIP.1 i -
dorsement of .!utce Hughes. whicjm fmt cf th knoll, (hit alorg the) New York. May 4 A 2 VI mile ess
threatened to cause an argument on tlie j American line a tr.K-r was ling on his ; alrynen's race is announced as a f'-ature
1 ! tempt ing to vi from t"ie Dublin xt-
found mir the
n.ir ot trie contention, was iipn-.ed ot utoir.a. h firm". H cmr.e. s lu,l
by cr.mproniie-at the tneetij ;. of , t stnke 4 f e. t ii front .f h wi. then
reoiutior,, rommiitf. others tnpid ?U feet 14 rf him. In
The re.-lwti--n siwut on industrial f ru- a moment more, a third bail Mni.-k bun Ithaa. Svriniw,
e-ticn and m-Ury rrerrediie, ja the bead, kiuirf luai. A Ltuteiuitj Ut ati Ail-x-na,
of the mil-tart- a"d r,al tournament nt
v(,-p.h.nd bay. Ms to -Z". t rcp t
itofs mil tat1 fr m W a-liingon. l'-"-t' e
Mrs. R. M. Minard Wat Born in Starkt-
boro 55 Years Ago.
Mrs. K. M. Minard. wife of Di . R. M.
Minard. died j-terday afternoon at 4.;.
at their borne in Ea-t Harre. Mrs. Minard
was horn in stark-U.ro vears ag. and
with her husband rsme to Eat Barre to
in aid bott 2" y.ars agi. Mrs. Minard
'is survived by her busland and three
.hrothers. lhe tc.neral w.ll be Kill from
her horn-- Satutdsv morniiis at o'eka-V.
' IIiM-I.ng Stf-arn l'-t kh t!;e vlhav
Ills' of tl.e sertHTS. lhe burial w ,!
Kutlan-I. t., Man hrs- t at West To.V,4m. l-s ri h-i dau;h
tr, who d.-d ytari ag.
