imp" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I OKISCUT S SRP
,A~' ~ loom
187~VLg LIKNS S., C, MAY 4, 1916
COUNTY DEMOC
VENTIONV
The idkens Gounty Democratie'con
vention met in.the court hoe4 Monday
mnorning shortly after eldten -o'cloch
and was in session Nesg th~artwo houie.
The - meeting was harmonious in the
extreme.
Chirman ,G. .F. Norris called the
meeting -to order. W. T. O'Dell was
elected temporary president and A. P.
DuBose elected - temporary: secretary,,
withoutoppositioi. Mesars.L.H,$mlth,
W. E Findley and F. V. O'Dell were
appointed a committee on. credentials
andt tl roll of delegates called. Only
a fe delekates were abseht andenough
alternptes were present to fill Nearly all
the vacancies.
The temporary organization was On
animoasly made 'permanent. Rev. D
W. Hiott was called upon and 6ffered
-praye3r.
. Norris was - then re-elected
chairRn ef' the'count"executive com
mittee ,without opposition.
The president appointed C. E. Robin
son, J. K.. Lathem and Clint Rowland
as a'committee to nominate delegates
to the state convention. They s'elected
the 'following gentlemen, who 'were
unanimously elected as delegtes to
representithis county, in the state Dern
ocratic convention which will - meet in
Columbia the third Wednesdqy in May:
W- T; G.'Dell, W. C.- smith, J. N. Mor
gan, T. M. Norris, E. P. McCravey and
C. L. Cureton; alternates, C.T. Martin,
Claud Boggs. M, C. Smith, IL P. Haley,
. H. Smith, Dr. W. M. Ponder.
Without opposition W. tC. Smith was
elected a member of .the stateexecutive
edmmitte .e'fro'n this county. This fin
ished-the routine business of the con
vention.
C. T. Martin ten introduced i reso
of. Presiddnt Wilson -and asking. for
his rennlination. M. W. ' Hester
spoke against the resolution, and said
he did6't believe Wilson could- be re
elected *and that the J,Jnilted StateA
had as much- cause to go .to war -With
England as with Germany, and k looked
as if anybody would have more sense
than to fight the..Germans. - .J. S. Leop
ard of.Cateeihee, replying,' -said -that
ffMr. Heste; evidently. was -rom. Ger
many, and caused.vociferpus applause
when he said that he was -a Demociat
of sixty-fivo.years' experience and con
sidered Woodrow Wilson the greatest
president who'has been in the White
i4ease 'during that time. The resolu
tion was adofted with one or two votes
ainst it.
A resolution was ittroduced an unan
imously adopted- endorsing E. P. Me
Cravey as a delegate from this district
to the Democratic National convention
to be held in St. Louis.
'C.; E. Robinson then introduced the,
following resolution, which was adqpted:
Resolved, That the delegates to the
state convention be .instructed to use
their influence to jave submitted -to ithe
padple at the approaching primaryelee
tion this questioni .Shall the county-to
county canvass by candidates for atatae
,offices be continued or not?
The yneeting then adjourned.
issed the Date
- 0 T. A . Bo'Wen,- farM .demonstration
ent, T. H. Stewrt,..- tre'srger and
a. R. O'dell-'nd J.. D, t.Sthnsell, of
e~ikens counity, wer-e afieinfoz'med as to
the date of the Clover Rally .at Hodges
toda~y and cante -down ,on -Wednes
When they .discovered their mistkej
they drove-on to- Greenwood and regret
ed that they -had to re'turn homne last.
-night.*:"The fact that Pickens county
sent a delegation to tihe big meeting las
more evridence of- the widespread inter-.
ersrimhson clover.-- -Greenwood Jour
- nal. .
M~ Bowen was determined to atteid
that mneet~ig, however, so-the next day
he, Accompjsned by Messrs.-J;. F. Ban
nister, ; g O'Dell and D). HI. Kenne.
mur,-*Whtheelto Hodges and attend
ed thebig farmir's niedting, and they
were4 re than repaidJ or. their trip.
- Jir an400faigerswere present
andgiof: tvhdr thin'g, inspected the:
farm of'Mi. Bob Hodges, which ten
years sg4 was one of thei poorest pieces
-isone ot the-best.' The ebenge has beend
-b bught aibout by planting clover onb It.
Eightyekasago Mt. Hfodges used $800
w'odholrtilizer onthe place And rais-'
ed thar bales of cotton. LaI~st fear he
used $ 00'worth-of 16 per c'ont aCId and
raisdd 1~4 biles on the same ptace. -:1He
grows the cotton and clover at the asine
time. Get Tlore Bowen to'tell you aboii
this.'
Dacusville --Singinig Convention
The Dacusville township singing con
. ventjon will maeet with Cross Rqads
chute'o thteil et'Sunday afterroon at
2 0'eloed l~ile-s , and : the public
are cort yil d.*be with us..
J U- . " on Pye .--i
RATIC CON
RY HARMONIOUS
Flowers-Garrett
Mr. William C. Gatrett, manager of
the telephone system'in Newberry, was
married - in Columbia Easter Sunday
the -bride being Miss Lillian Lucille
1 lowers, the ceremony taking place 'at
St. Timothy Episcopal .church at 8.16
o'clock by Rey. Robortom. Mr. Garrett
has- returned to Newberry with -his
bride and they ai'd at'home at the Negy.
berry hotel,, where they are' receiving
the congratulations of friends.-New
berry Observer.
The above announcement will be of
interest to people here,'as William C.
Garrett, - better known here as Calvin
GArrett, is a native of Pickens county
and a son of Mr. and Mrs. J.M. Garrett
of. near. Pickens. He. was recently
made manager of the telephone system
in Newberry, having, been transferred
from Columbia, where for several years
he'was wire chief in the telephone e:
change.
The Sentinel joins with manyother
Pickens county friends in extending
congratulations to the happy and pop
ular couple.
0.Sutherland Married in Georgia
Ollis L. Sutherland and Miss Mattie
Sue Gwin of Sugar Valley, Ga., were
married An the Baptist parsonage at
Calhoun, Ga., April 23, Rev. Bryan
Collins officiating.
The bnide is the youngest daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. .J. T. Gwin and' the
groom is the eldest son of Mr. and Mrs.
W. D. Sutherland, formerly of the 'Da
cusville section of Pickens county. 'The
young couple will make their home in
Sugar VaNdy.
Many Pickens friends join, with Geor
gia . friends in wishing Mr. and Mrs.
8a 6tetn'da- i, I bh 6s"p, 'rous atMd *ap..
py'life.
Good Time at Dacusville
The play, "Between Two Lives" was
aplendidly carried'out last Friday iight
by the Dacusville school, before an. au
ditoriun filled with interested specta
tors. .Eneh of the actors played their
part wiell, especially good work -was
done by .Miss. Patti Major' And James
Pondet',-*ho pikyed the leading parts.
George:Williams, As "Rastuh Washing
ton Lincoln,'" 4nd Babe Thdinos, as the
colored git'l, "Truletti"' added much to'
.the merriment of. the play. They would
be hard to beat.
Altogether the play was instructive.
constructive and the best play that 'has
ever been -given at DAcusville.
A special feature was music render
ed by the 'Parsons' Orchestra led by 1.
F. Parsons and assisted by Dr. Ponder
and Sam McDaniel, Ralph Parsons and
the piano accompaniment was played 'by
Miss Ruth Parsons. It was simily
grand.
The school has had a success f t ses
sion under Prof. .J.F.Lupo as principal.
jFORTY YEARS AGO TODAYI
'The following items were taken from
The Pickens Sentinelof May 4, 1876:
Another "moonshirier" was recently
captured, with about 'ixty-five gallons
of "mountain dlew" and lodged in jail
at this place.
*Sheii Ferguson left Tuesday for'
Columbia with Dyar' Mcjunkin, whose
sentence the governor recently com
muted from death upon the gallows to
ten years of bard labor in the peniten
tiary,
Lee announcement of W, G, Field for
Judge of. Probate.
Elias Hfollingswvorth, an old man and
pensloonerof the war of 1812, dropped
dead at his residepee neor Easley Sta
tion on the 26t ult.
We regret to' learn that Mr. Madden
Gambrel'died from'. pneumpnia at his
residence near Easley Station on the
26th ult.
Correction.-In our last issue we stat
ed 'that the town 'electioi 'of Easley
went."dry." This, we 'are informed,
is not the case.. The questioni of "wet"'
or "dry" was not mooted, and the old
council wasi re-elected without opposi
tion,' who will grant licenses as hereto
fore. The council are: Intendant, T.
,W. Russell; wardens, 0. 8. Bolt, M.W.
Ford; G. N.' Broom, Nelson Hiolcombe.
'Tbb' Alken Tribune,' about the only
fteptublilma paper.in the state, has -sus
.ThecSentinel of'this date also car'ries
a lohg'hrt'ihe dlott the death of Revs
Thon as 1R. Gary, a' Baptist minister,
wiho died at his home near Liber ty.May L.
D.. F. Bradley was eJto~ ad dpropi'i~
etor of Th e Sentinel at th a time.
fouof Villa's Men
(By CAPT. GEORGE B. RODNEY, U. S. A.)
A Story of the Mexican Border Troubles Involving icidents
Leading Up to and Including Those Which Marked the
Beginning of the American Punitive Expedition
After Pancho Villa.
A graphic narrative of an attiack by bandits on the home
of an American owner of a Mexican mine and the rescue
of the party through the bravery of a young United
States cavalry officer and his troops.
With the girl of his heart in .danger Lieut. Kynaston
knowingly courts' dismissal from the army and even
death to save her. His success comes only after a series
of interesting adventures.
Here.is a serial which has an especial timeliness because
it pictures in a naost striking and interesting manner the
causes which led up to the determination of the United
States governrnent to protect the lives of American
citizens from the lawless Mexican bandits who have
spread terror and destruction alonv the border. Every
reader who has followed the news in connection with the
hunt for Villa by American troops will read the adven
tures of the brave lieutenant who offers his life for the
girl he loves.
This Story Will Begin in The Sentinel Next
Week. Be Sure to Get the First Installment
HOGWALLOW NEWS
DUNK BOTTS, Editor.
A TLAS PECK is expecting to come plow in. This movement should and
out next Sunday in a new calico' probably will meet with the heartysup
shirt, provided his wife has enough port of the congregation.
goods left from the dress she is making.
Washington Hocks is blossoming out
A show direct from A "'two years' run~ in the medical profession, and now has
onBroadway, New York," is billed for m t e, aea spply of his ba
the opera house in Tickville next Sat- Sn the-market avc iy gofo eery-e
urday night. Trhe manager of the opera Ithing from sore cys down to corns.
house says he hopes they won't try to*
staythatlon on im.Fishing has started out~ well fhis sea
The pond at Poke Easley's home is i son. Tobe Moseley and others started
going dry. That will not bother Poke in on time and expect to get through in
much, as his wife washes the clothes at !bt iltadGne resb h
the creek, anyuhow. - time the fishing season closes.
Sim Flinders passed down the road Bihrhsodrdafako ih
going in the direction of the Calf Ribs
neighborhood yesterday, but could not pwrprue fi.hdbe nw
make much headway, the breeze being ta h a on od hs hr
against him. wudfoe oigotti pig
A protracted meeting is about to be-asMsFutetisronagetda.
gin among the Baptists at Tickville.
The water Is a little cool yet. Faigta h te erhshm
On his way home from Tickville the weFtSihto rcuint e
other night with a dime's worth of afwri~arl ln h ~~kt
cheese, Cricket Hicks slept at the hometkecrofhespl.
of F'risby Hancock. For protection
during the night he set a rat trap in his Arzobakhgwrigahepel
pocket. hsbe aigisl osiuu
Next Sunday the D)og ill! MethodistIThsnmadosotblgtonyf
preacher will take up an extra collec- Iorctznbti ild orgtso
ThIik n e tins een ieane that oisf-ui
prinscmrerPcke s countye newlskohi
thnayohrpowere.,me No itizbennw
caelyfodtoa dhe wgintou ioti,thr
esecalyuduin ca igedrng ear.sls
taks oth f o e tare t copl s ts
A raor-bck og warin a heepbel
PICKENS TEAM I
TAIN STATI
Know Any Relatives of Mr. Hall?
In a letter to The Sentinel J. A. Hali
of Uecatur, Ga., writes: ,My gieat
gandfather, Jesse. Hall, hc lived In
Pickens district, and my grandfathei-,
Thomas Hall, and his wife, Polly vahsj
moved from Oconee toChoi'okee,;GA.,
in the early thirties, I would.llik. to
locate any relatives who may still 'be
living in that part of the eeh*t or
have any information regarding the
burial place of Jesse Hall."
Mr. Hall would greatly apbreciate
any information'any one could givo him
in regard to the slove.
"Josh" Asbley Dead
"Josh" W. Ashley, one of Anderson
county's most prominent citizens tind
for twenty years member of the legis
lature from that county, died at the
the home of his son in Anderson, city
last week. He was known as "the
peor man's friend" and probably had
more friends and admirers than any
other man in Anderson county. His
funeral was held at Mt. Bethel ljaptist
church, near Honea Path, Sunday, and
was attended by more than 4,000 people,
the largest crowd that ever atterided a
funeral in Anderson county.
Notice, Members Antioch Church
Mr. Editor: Please say thru your
columns 'to the members of Antioch
church that every one is especially re
quested to be present next second Sat
urday, as business of importance will
come before the church. The matter of
repairing the church house demands our
immediate attention, and to. do thiF
means that it is'necessary to have th(
co-operation of every member.
We will also celebrate the Lord'i
Supper the clay following. Rev. E. M
Bolding is to be with us at these ser
vices. It is a joy to have Brother Bol
ding with us. A large crowd is expect
ed and a good time promised.
H, F. WmoIT, Pasto-.
Protracted Meeting Began Sunda:
A protracted meeting began at tho
Pickens Methodist church Sunday. Rev
A. E. Holler of Greenville is doing the
preaching. He is well known and love
by the Pickens people, who were pleased
with his preaching here last year when
he conducted a series of meetings in
the Methodist church. Pastor Wiggins
extends a cordial invitation to members
of other churches to attend these ser
vices apd assures them of a hearty
welcome. Services are held twice daily,
at 10 o'clock in the morning and $
o'clock at night. The morning service
lasts only one hour. Everybody wel
come.
Southern to Operate Veterans
Special to Birmingham
Monday, May 15
For accommodation of veterans and
their friends attending Annual Reunion,
Birmingham, Ala., May 16-18, th'e Sou
thern Railwny have arranged a "Vet
erans Special" from Soth Carolina
points.
This train will be operated on the
same schedule as the famous "IBirming
ham Special" which leaves Spartan
burg 7.00 n. mn., Greenvile 8.00 a. m.
and Seneca 9.15 n. mn., Monday, May 15.
Special train will consist of modern (lay
coaches and pullman cars.
There will also he a special arranged
to leave Anderson 8.05 a. mn. same date
via Blue Ridge.Railway,. vhich will con
nect with the Veterans Special at Sen
eca. Tis Special train will make all
stops from Spartanberg to Westminster
inclusive, thenice through to the great
city of Birmingham, the Pittsburg of
the South, tarriving at this point 5.45 1'.
m. May 16.
You will note that this special will ar-.
rive Birmingham in ample time for all
to secure their hotel accommodations,
etc. before night.
'The Southern will also provide extra
equipment on all their regular trains on
account of this great reunion.
A special representative of the Sou
thern Railw ay will accompany this train
through to Hi rminghami and everythsing
will he done to give all a most comfort.
*able trip.
A convict, a trusty, who was with
the road gang in the Slabtowd' se~tion
of Anderson county, assaulted a young
white girl near the home of air, B, H.
Pepper Tuesday morning.. Reports9
reaching Pickens say that the girl was
chokedl and badly abusedl and ikin it
critical condition. A P0she wvith lo'od
hounds ia in hot pursuit.
.AILS TO RV
CHAMPIONS
The Plekens high school' traCkt4 ,
-last year champions of the. 6tit' f
South Carolina, finished fourth in thle
track meet held at Columbia last Fri. - . j
day. The -Clio team won first-plaee
with 81 points, Greenville finished sec.
o1d with 16 points and Wesminsteof
third'with 15 points. Forty-five schools
had representatives -in the contests.
Charlie Curtis, heretofore the bst
point-getter on the Pickens team, sprain.'
ed his ankle during the prelininary
events and was unable to do his bhet
work in the finals. The Pickens boys
believe this knocked them out of second
place.
Steen Looper did the beat work for
Pickens in this meet, winning second
place in the discuss throw and second
place in the shot put,.making a total of
sik points. ChatfG Cttlf won -one
point by winning thli'd pjk)a Itedv
ning high jump, and Hentet Birens*n
a point by winning third place in the din
cus throw. B. F. McDaniel and Charlie
Yongue other members of the team,
were unable to attend this meet.
The Pickens team is composed of
Charlie Curtis, Steen Looper, Hansel
Blvens, Ralph Hester, B. F. McDaniel,
Charlie Yongue and A. J. Boggs, and
has had a sucecessful year, winning the
county championship, finishing second
at the Piedmont meet and fourth at the
state meet.
Capt. Billy Will Be "On the Job"
Capt.. .W. 1. Allgood was in town
Tuesday for the first time in quite a
while and his numerous friends were
delighted to see him. He informs us
that he expects to be with the other old
soldiersin ,Pichens at the reunion June
3, but that he expects this will be the
last' reunion he will be able to attend
here, and he wants all the "old boys"
who possibly can to be here that day.
We don't like to think about Capt. Bill
not being at our old soldiers' reunion,
and it wouldn't'seem quite the same
without him, and while he is gettlug up
.in years we trust his wonderful forti
tude and constitution will enable him to ,
be longer with us than lie may imagine.
Mrs. Arminda Ellenburg Dead
Mrs. Arminda Ellenburg (lied at the
home of her son-in-law,Anthony Lewist
at the Pickens Mill village, Monday,
May I. Burial took place at Seconit
cemetery Tuesday afternoon. She was
72 years of age aind had been a member
of Eastatoe Baptist church for many
years. She is survived by three chil
dren: Mrs. Anthony Lewis, Mrs. John
Galloway and Anthony Ellenburg, all
of Pickens county. It was Mrs. Ellen
burg's request that Rev.Wn.Holcombe
preach her funeral, but as word could
not be. got to him in time for the burial
he will preach the funeral at Enstatoe
Baptist church next Sunday.
Pickens County Items
The one-eent sale at the P'ickens Drug
Co. store closedi Saturday and was pro-.
nounIced py Dr. Hlallunm a success. .The
alde wats not intended as a nioney-mnak
ing atfair for the store, but was part of
an advertising campaign for Roxall
goods, and these goods were placed in
many homes.
An itemn in Th'ie Pickens Sentinel of
May 41, 1882, exactly 34 years ago today,
says: "Monday morning was nearly
cool enough for- frost at this place."
Another item in the same paper says:
",... P. Carey, Esq., of this place hda4
breen oet deliver the alumni ad
drsfA dger' college at Waihalta."
IA. Dwight Attaway, who has been
agent at the Pickons, depot for the past
several years, has resigned that place
and accepted a position with the Pick
ens Mercantile Co. He entered upon
1his~nesv duties May 1. TIhose who have
business to do with the depot regret
D lwlght's leaving, as lie was a pains
taking, leastant and efficient agent. We
are not infomned as to who his succes
sor will b~e.
'1. A. Bowen, farm demonstratLion
agent, hams opened an ofliee in the court
house and will be in the (ofliCe eve'ry
Saturday. Hie hans on hrand there ai full
supJply of bulletins of every kind of in
terest to -farmers ini this section, and.
anyone may get bulletins by calling for
them. We um derstand that Mr. Bowen
wilil also kee o')(n hand a good sup ply of
chewing and smokin g tobacco Which
will be givenm free to all- who visit1 his .
qfilec.. -The oiflice is~ next to the tras
UI''sf4'ofilen and fimll be open dvery Sat
-mrday, when everybodiy is invited to call. '
