fr fl iff f fit 1 jMlP
Till COURIER
ti duvotad to tli baat Internal
of HI'ltAY and WIIKEMCR
COUNTY. Th. III! p.lron-
of lh allium of tkU mc
lion U rwpOTtulljr MiHoltad.
PublUhtd ertrr Tanadar by
RUSSELL P. FRIOE.
fluWrlpUoo Ratal
H.00
SUM th ,, ,M
ThiMooth. ......
VOL. XIV. Sl'ItAr. WIIEELEB COUNTY, OREGON; THURSDAY. MAY 4. 191 C. Kn 10
' '
T '
WORLD'S DOINGS
OF CURRENT WEEK
Liberty Hall, Dublin, Headquarters of the Irish Rebels.
P 1 1 !9
Brief Resume of General News
from All Around the Earth.
MSN HAPPENINGS LI A KUTSH01
live News Items of All Nations and
Pacific Northwest Condensed
for Our Busy Reader.
The British government has with
drawn Iti conscription measure.
The Irlth rebellion now affects the
entire island, am martial law haa been
declared throughout.
Tranacontinental railroads continue
to ahow enormous tonnage movements,
witft resultant gains in earnings.
Two hundred gallons of spirltous
liquor or many sorts, seized in a raid
on a pharmacy on Jackson street, Se
attle, were dumped into a sewer.
Out of 1000 California miners exam
ined by state and Federal sanitary In
spectors, approximately 40 per cent
were found infected with hook worm.
The Japanese government, in consid
eration of the present condition of
trans-Pacific trade, has authorized an
increase in freight rates, effective im
mediately.
Swiss territory - has again been vio
lated by a German aeroplane, which
flew over the region of Porentruy and
was bombarded by Swiss troops along
toe frontier.
James W. Gerard, the American
ambassador, and Joseph C. Grew, sec
retary of the American embassy, have
, left Berlin for German army head
quarters for an audience with Emperor
William.
vt - ' .rr-f Tf i
, L L I:. ' m -r-; ' 0 -a
- . - ' n - I' -rr-n - f tj r, s ' "Av- s
i in., i , . r ,J, j ....T. '"""""tr-rtTM-.iiJrr. i a .-.. ,-.? ' : i
gr , . 'v'e' N -??. ' J ' v
f l V'. 1 f ; : p hi - i". ' , I
- eJt J "... . - '.: .if,- yr:- r-r-- . .
. ..-.--- n a , .w a--" - f- - i - i- n-- - a y r, f - i r 'I "j
points, but no important changes in
position are reported. The same is
true of the Austro-Italian tone,
Vienna reports an attack Easter
Sunday by seven Italian aeroplanes on
the city of Triest, in which nine civil
ians, five children, were killed and five
wounded. The report says that be
cause of this attack the "enemy for
feited every right to have his towns
spared."
The British and Boers in German
East Africa are continuing their for
ward movement against the Germans.
having now occupied the town of Kon-
doa, in the Irangi region. Consider
able casualties were inflicted on the
Germans.
ine cruisn also nave been success
ful in an operation near Deudiar.
This photograph of Liberty Hall, with the defiance f the Rriil.h
t-. - ' ., , , . : :; . 7 - . ' ngu, ih nan was uic 1 J
iicauuuanci ui 111c iuiiuwcts 01 Jim iarKin. tne amiitior. wnn wai in the 1 - statM na imd tmm k kA vkAi. - i a Turin ah aftov a -
through Dublin. At the right U a company of "Larkln's Cltirenry Soldier." They are probably the men concerned in the cap- near Quatia village, however, resulted
ture 01 tne potiomce, under the direction of the Sinn Fein Society. The hall was taken by the BritUh at the cost of eleven lives, in the British beinir foreed to retrent
BIG GUNS AGAIN IN ACTION
IN MANY SECTION Of f RON?
London The Turkish garrison Wed
nesday, revolted and slew all its Ger
man officers before the Russians cap
tured Trebizond, says the Daily Mail's
Udessa correspondent.
London Artillery bombardments
alone are taking place on the French
and Belgian fronts, the scene of the
greatest activity being the region of State Fair September 29, Governors'
he Uort Homme, and in the Aroemne uay.
forest, with the Germans the aggress- Governor Lister, of Washington,
ors in the former and the French in 1B0 " accepted Governor Withy
the latter sector. combe's invitation to be a guest at
The fighting between the Russians the State Fair In return Governor
and the Germans and Austrian along Withycombe will visit the Washington
tne eastern front continues at various state fair at Worth Yakima.
NEWS ITEMS
Of General Interest
About Oregon
Three Governors to Visit
Salem Governor Alexander, of Ida
ho, has notified Governor Withvcombe
that he will be present at the Oregon
REYOLUIION IN IRELAND BROKEN;
707 PRISONERS; LOSS MILLIONS
Kingstown, Ireland. The main bodr
or the Hinn Fein rebels In Dublin sur
rendered Sunday.
There was, however! considerable
fighting throughout the day In Dublin
and the auburbs. It was especially se
vere at Balls linage outside Dublin.
The rebels in the College of Sur-
Keona aurreiitlorcd Sunday mnrninr
One of the prisoners taken here was
the Countess Marklevlcx.
MEXICO DOES NOT
SEND ULTIMATUM
Conference Makes No Headway
Though Optimism Reigns. v
The Dutch tug Noordzee was sunk
and the steamers Maaahanen and
Dubhe damaged by mines, according to
dispatches received in London. The
Norwegian steamer Stromsnaes was
also sunk.
Two hours after engineers, firemen
and trainmen of the Missouri, Okla
homa & Gulf railway were' called out
on strike, the management conceded
the men's demands and they returned
to work immediately.
Attired only in his underwear and a
necktie, which was fastened neatly
with a diamond pin, Augustus Kaler,
60 years old, waa taken up late at
night on the streets of Portland. He
had forgotten where he lived.
Fourteen hundred employes of the
International Harvester company's
twine factory in Chicago, went on
strike, according to leaders, because
several workers, alleged to have been
intoxicated, were sent home by the
foreman.
A Cincinnati streetcar, crowded with
passengers, became unmanageable, ran
wild on a down grade for six blocks,
jumped the track, crashed into a tele
phone pole, which almost demolished
it, and caused the death of one woman
and injury to 88 other passengers.
Hundreds of exhibits illustrative of
the methods of the Federal govern
ment in caring for the lives and prop
erty of its citizens, are being asBem
bled in Washington, D. C, for the
Safety First special, a 12-coach train
that will make an educational tour
through thousands of cities and towns.
Dutch newspapers say that a Ger
man submarine halted two Dutch
steamers off the coast of Scotland,
when a British trawler appeared and
killed with its first shot four men who
were standing on the deck of the sub
marine. The trawler then sank the
submarine with a second shell, the en
tire action lasting.letis than ten min
utes. ' The British steamship Parisians, of
4763 tons gross, has been sunk. The
crew of the vessel was landed. The
Parisiana left Newport, England, April
20, bound for Norfolk.
The French Line steamshpl Rocham-
beau arrives in New York from Bor
deaux with a gun mounted on her
stern. She is the first passenger ship
to reach this port thus armed.
lvonuon. An official statement re
garding the rebellion in Ireland says
The rebels are surrendering free
ly. The back of the rebellion has been
broken.
Messengers have boen sent from
loaders of the Dublin rebels to
other rebels in Oalway, Clare, Wex
ford, Louth and Dublin counties order
ing them to surrender."
l-riests and the Koyai Irish con
stabulary are doing their utmost to
disseminate this information.
"As to the situation in Dublin, reb
els from the areas of Sackvllle street,
the postoffice and the Four Courts are
surrendering freely. More incendiary
fires took place In Sackvllle street
Saturday night, but the fire brigade
is now able to resume work.
'It is further reported that up to
the present 707 prisoners have been
taken.
The rebels at Ennlscorthy are re
ported to be still in possession of this
place and a mixed column of cavalry.
infantry and artillery has been sent
from Wexford with a view to engaging
tne rebels. The latest information
from Ennlscorthy shows that the rebel
leader at this place does not believe
the rebellion leaders' message from
Dublin and has proceeded to that city
in a motor car under escort to verify
the Information. In the meantime a
truce exists.
"A deputation for a similar purpose
from the rebels at Ashbourne (County
Meath) has also been sent to Dublin
At Galway the rebels are believed to
be dispersing and few arrests have
been made.
At New Ross, Oorey, Wlcklow, Ba-
genalstown and Arklow, the situation
Is reported normal. Carlow and Dun
lavin are believed to be quiet"
SUPPLIES GO FORWARD FOR TROOPS
Threat of Force Denied by Mexican;
General Meeting Marks Time,
Pending Reply of Wilson.
Blacksmiths Go To Convention in
Autos; Machines Supplant Horses
Tacoma, Wash. After riding to
their convention in automobiles ES
master blacksmiths of Washington
spoke of the lean years in their busi
ness and dolefully predicted the hope
lessness or the future with the grow
ing popularity and utility of the auto
mobile and the disuse of horses.
The old-time blacksmith Is becoming
extinct, they said, and In his place is
coming the blacksmith who shoes
horses occasionally and repairs auto
mobiles frequently. No attacks were
made on the motor car, the majority
oi tne members merely reporting that
they have gone Into the automobile
repair business.
J. W. Woodslde. of North Yakima,
was elected president for the ensuing
after an engagement with a Turkish
column superior in numbers.
IRISH IN REBELLION
Many Killed in Uprising in Dublin.
Widespread Plot Believed Nipped.
Commenting on Governor Withv-
combe's plan for ah interchange of
visits between executives of the three
Northwestern states with a view of
stimulating interest in the state fairs.
Governor Alexander wrote:
'This interchange of visits of the
executives of the neighboring states is
a happy thought, as so many of our
interests are mutual"
State Money Is Involved.
Salem The right to nossession of
$25,000 paid by the state of Oregon
for the building and grounds of the Sa
lem hospital will be decided between
the hospital and the Oregon Children's
Aid society by Circuit Judge Kellv
here next week.
Through condemnation proceedings
the state acquired the hospital proper
ty which adjoins the state asylum,
turning over $25,000 appropriated bv
the legislature in payment. The mon
ey, now in possession of the county
clerk, is claimed by the hospital au
thorities and also the Children's Aid
society. The latter claims the money
by reason of the terms of , the deed in
which it conveyed the property to the
hospital association. The deed speci
fies that the hospital shall maintain a
children's ward and not dispose of the
property. Now by condemnation the
Aid society claims it ia entitled to the
money.
London With 12 persona killed
and 19 wounded as the result of an up
rising in Dublin Tuesday, all Ireland
ia a smouldering volcano.
Although the capital was almost
completely isolated by the cutting of 7?? Tut JJ
tele-ann linen when the whl project, oui k
Early Irrigation Started.
Klamath Falls Water was turned
into the Griffith canal Saturday by the
Reclamation service. This is a week
earlier than the water will be used
Lived Over 100 Years
Sharp rises in food prices in Den
mark have alarmed the people, who
fear further increases if the war con
tinues. Foods and every-day necessi
ties are said to be up 80 per cent, with
the rate of increase growing.
Fred Cozzens, an importer of New
York, asserted on his arrival here
aboard the French Line steamship
Rochambeau, that he had. witnessed
the entraining at Marseilles two weeks
ago of a force of Japanese soldiers,
200 strong.
Eastern Suffragists Visit Northwest.
Portland. With gay sashes and ban
ners of gold, white and purple, rival
lng the brightness of the sunny spring
morning, the delegation of 23 eastern
suffragists touring the country In the
Interests of the Susan B. Anthony
amendment for national suffrage, ar
rived Sunday in Portland. After break
fast the visitors were taken on a tour
of the city, then to the general rendez
vous station at the Oregon building
and thence out the
highway to view the
joy luncheon at Crown Point Chalet.
A rousing mass meeting at the library
at night completed the busy day's
visit, after which the party left for
Seattle.
El Paso. Mexican and American
conferees over the disposition of the
American forces in Mexico marked
time Sunday while Generals Hugh L.
Scott and Frederick Funston awaited
word from Washington as to the next
step to be taken in the negotiations
with General Obregon.
The report of the American repre
sentatives on Saturday's conference
went forward by wire. On the answer
of President Wilson and Secretaries
Lansing and Baker to Its recommen
dations depends the future status of
the conference.
In the meantime the following facts
developed :
That to date the apparent Intention
of the Washington government to keep
General Pershing's columns in Mexico
has not been changed.
That General Obregon in Saturday's
conference served no sort of notice on
Generals Scott and Funston that could
be construed as an ultimatum demand
ing immediate withdrawal.
That the desire of the de facto gov
ernment for withdrawal was again
announced, but that the only discus
sion along this line was regarding the
advisability of an American retire
ment.
That there was considerable discus
sion of the possibility of effective
American and Mexican co-operation in
the eradication of scattered Villa ban
dit groups.
That there is a strong possibility
there will be only one more conference
and that depending on the wishes of I
the Washington government
That while the present negotiations
are proceeding, shipments of supplies
to the American expedition's forces
are going forward uninterruptedly,
I
Idaho Sella 5000 Acres.
Caldwell Approximately 6000 acres
of state land within the Payette-
Boise project were sold at public
auction by State Land Commissioner
George Day. The bidding was spir
ited, choice parcels being sold for from
$60 to $83 an acre. Commissioner
Day declared that the state would
realize $150,000 from the sale.
Drafting Grows In Favor.
Glasgow. The Scottish Trades Un
ions' Congress, by a vote of 66 to 46,
declared its opposition to compulsory
military service. The vote is consid
ered significant as heretofore the
Scottish Trades Unionists have been
virtually unanimous against compul
sory service.
Abraham Wilcox.
Abraham Wilcox, who has Just died
in Fort Worth, declared that he was
115 years old. His sons and daughters
Columbia river among other suddUcs leaving the Co- say he was 107. Until his last Illness
scenery and en- himbus base being nine truckloads of he walked two miles every day, and
ordnance. never ianea 10 reaa tne aauy papers.
From stray bits of information it ap- a came to the United States at the
pears that Saturday's conference end- Se of thirty, and worked on a farm
ed with the question of withdrawal of
the United States troops still upper
most In the minds of the Mexican con
ferees. They are understood to have
tried to impress on the American rep
resentatives their contention that po
litical conditions in Mexico are such
that they cannot be responsible for
any eventualities that may result from
continued occupation of Mexican soil
by American columns. They are said
also to have laid stress on the fact
that the position of the Carranza gov
ernment would be extremely delicate
if the expeditionary movement were
not ended.
There was noting in the atmosphere
of either El Paso or Juarez to Indicate
that any crisis has been reached in
the negotiations. All of the principals,
Mexican and American, seem opti
mistic.
near Rochester, N. Y. Later he owned
a farm In Michigan. He spent many
years at San Luis Potosl. but could
not stand the revolutions, and he went
to Fort Worth.
year. Jay R. Chambers was chosen
secretary and August Swenson, of
Port Angeles, was elected third vice
president. All the other officers were
re-elected. North Yakima was chosen
as the next meeting place, beating out
Beumgnam ror the honor. The visitors
attended a banquet
Harper's Weekly is Sold.
New York. Harper's Weekly has
been acquired by the Independent
Corporation, it was announced here,
and is to be incorporated in the Inde
pendent The Independent is 68 years
old and Harper's Weekly 59. i
tne postomce, tne. government pro
fesses to be in control of the situation.
The most sanguine, however, will not
predict what even the next hour will
bring forth.
Augustine BirrelL chief secretary
for Ireland, who made the first an
nouncement of the trouble in the house
of commons Wednesday, could give
few details. The government knew,
he said, that about a dozen sol
diers had been killed, that arrests
had been made, and that troops were
on the way from The Curragh to Dub
lin. It did not know the number of
rioters killed, or the parts of the city
that were still in their possession.
So far as known, the trouble started
at noon on Monday in the center of
Dublin. A mob, composed mainly of
members of the Sinn Fein society,
seized Stephens Green, a large park
near the Royal university; the post-
othce on backville street and several
houses immediately adjoining.
Troops, hastily summoned, and loyal
volunteers sought to expel the rebels,
who meanwhile had cut all the com
munication lines. In the fighting that
ensued two policemen and two citizens
were killed, together with several sol
diers.
it is tne connection between the re
volt and the attempted landing of Sir
Roger Casement with German arms on
the Irish coast that makes the situa
tion ominous. It is believed now that
there is a vast conspiracy afoot
through all Ireland and that the arri
val of Sir Roger had been set as the
Bignal for a general uprising.
The official statement, however, as
serts that the disturbances were local'
Ized in Dublin. Reports received from
Cork, Limerick, Ennie, Tralee and
both ridings of Tipperary, where the
Sinn Feiners have been especially
strong, show that if any revolts were
planned they failed to materialize.
The prompt seizure of Casement and
the sinking of the German auxiliary
with her cargo of arms are believed to
have disorganized the plans of the
leaders.
None of the Irish leaders here are
believed implicated in the plots. Both
Sir Edward Carson, who is one of the
strongest members of coalition govern
ment, and John Redmond, the Nation
alists chief, unite in condemning the
acts of rebellion.
was
necessary to supply the sandy lands in
the Sand Hollow and Malin districts,
as they are blown badly by the strong
April winds.
The water was turned in from Lost
river, and would otherwise have wast
ed away through the diversion canal to
Klamath river. Heretofore the Malin
ranchers have suffered considerably be
cause water could not reach them ex
cept through the main canal, but the
enlarging and extension of the Griffith
canal last summer has brought great
relief.
Total May Be 226,000.
Salem Oregon's registration for the
primaries this year will total approxi
mately 225,000, or 6000 less than two
years ago, according to the estimates
of the secretary of state's office.
Reports so far give a total registra
tion of 217,779, of whom 146,000 are
Republicans and 54,251 Democrats.
Progressives number 1169; Prohibi
tionists, 5134; Socialists, 4900, and
miscellaneous registrations, 6325. The
registration shows 67.04 per cent Re
publicans and 24.91 Democrats.
Lockwood Quits Race.
Salem Charles E. Lockwood, of
Portland, has withdrawn as a candi
date for the Republican nomination
for President of the United States,
and requested Secretary of State 01
cott not to certify his name for print
ing on the ballot at the primary elec
tion May 19. Reason for his with
drawal is given in the fact that the
Oregon Supreme court has decided that
the name of Charles E. Hughes be
placed on the Republican ballot for
President.
Bar View to Get Road.
Bar View The much talked of road
through this place is about to be real
ized. The county commissioners have
decided to go ahead with the construc
tion as qiuckly as preliminary work
can be done, and it is expected that
the latter part of this week will see
the thing in full swing. Since the
high tides last fall Bar View has been
cut off from the outside world as far
as road connection is concerned.
Miners' Strike Predicted.
New York Efforts to harmonize the
demands of the anthracite miners and
the concessions offered by the opera
tors were broken off Wednesday, after
more than eight weeks of almost con
tinuous discussion here by a joint sub
committee representing both employers
and employes. Predictions were made
by members ' of the miners' general
board that the trl-di strict convention,
to be held at Pottsville, Pa., on May
2, would vote in favor of a strike.
Pulp Mill Machinery Bought.
Marshfield One of the paper mills
at Oregon City has purchased the ma
chinery in the C A. Smith pulp mill,
near this city, and will remove it soon
to Oregon City. The Smith pulp mill
had been closed for 15 months. This
indicates that there will be renewal of
activities for the present.
v
Merrill Has Rabies Scare.
Klamtah Falls-l-The town of Merrill
is much excited over a rabies scare.
A coyote that bit a dog waa killed and
its head sent to the Oregon Agricul
tural College for analysis, the report
being that unmistakable signs of ra
bies were apparent.
