NIGHT
EXTRA
vol. in. no. no
RUSSIANS REPEL
TEUTON ATTACKS;
BATTLE STILL ON
Tetrograd Reports Heavy
Fighting in Carpathians
and Near Rumania
TFTN A N Cl At ' E D TTT cm
icimunn
c
IMrger
NIGHT
EXTRA
FILING PLEA AGAINST SALOON LICENSE
Charles Bcnllcy Collins, attorney
for remonstrants ngnlnit Rrnntinjr
of i license to Michael J. Burko for
n saloon at Sixtieth utrcet and
lansdowno avenue, tolay present
ed to William W. Turner, deputy
clerk of tho Court of Quarter Ses
sions, a petition for rchearlne
s Bned by 1000 residents in tho vl
c nity of the proposed saloon. Tho
signatures to the petition repre
sent all but 300 residents of a two
block radius.
CZAR SEEKS DECISION
s Attempt to Drive Russians nnd
r v Rumanians From Carpathians
& Checked, Fetrograd Says
LONDON, Oct. 18. British artillery
weccssfully shelled the Macedonian
''town of Barakll DJuma (fifteen miles
jtwthwest of Sexes), where Bulgarian
i smenients had been observed, it was
'ftcUlly announced today. On the
j iWran front British patrols were ac
tive, dispersing enemy working parties.
' v rETltOCIItAD. Oct. 13.
rttmlan and Austro-German troops aro
jww battling In heavy snows In tho Car
pathians and southward near tho Ituma
, irfut frontier, where the Teutons attempted
(o divide ths Russian and Rumanian
armies.
The War Office today announced the re
t jmlse of all Teutonlo attacks south of
JKershmeso and also near Dorna Vntra.
'North of Kormotnltza, In fierce and ob-
stln&te fighting, all enemy counter-attacks
were repelled. Near Bolshov-co tho Teu
, tens also counter-attacked savagely, but
were halted by Russian fire.
LONDON, Oct 18. Great battles, In
Which neither side as yet has any decided
Mv)t(-e, are developing; along the eastern
front, and appear to be Increasing; In Intensity.
All the way down from the Prlpct marsh-
'e through Volhynla. Gallcla and Dukowlna
sad along the border of Rumania over a
Hue more than 400 miles In length there
' were heavy engagements.
lerueraay-s reports were to the effect
that von Hlndenburg's most talked-of offen
'tlri on the eastern front was under way,
h Now the Russian War Ofllce reports that
,the attempt of the Teutons to drlvo a wedge
L ' between the Jtuaslan and Rumanian armies
. r we Carpathians at the Junction nt t h.
Rumanian. Hungarian and Bukowlnlan
.frontiers has failed. ,
On the other hand. h nn... to...
te announced that von Dothmr- r..
operating southeast of Tmh.r. ,.!
ned the Ruselan trenches on a. front f
a mile and a Quarter anil h, ,..-.,
WW prisoners, together with ten machine
Tha I!n in h. -.., . . .
a - - - f-iun casi or .uutsk and
-rg witnessed attacks by tho Russians
art counter-attacks by the Atuirx.,..
Tie assaults wero laundied after artillery
. ...wa.ta v HlCstl BCYeriEV lfl fflA r-
wn north of Korytnlza
'RfAsKIsbV
,rrxrr.utmmmimmmmmmmmtmmmm. &. J ',
--IKIH' l
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, OCTOIUSU 18, 101 G
Coniionr, 1818. st ths ruiuo Ltoata Cowrist
LUSITANIA NEGOTIATION
REACHES THE STAGE OF
INDEMNITY DISCUSSION
Reported U. S. Has Accepted Ger
man Note of February 16
Stating Torpedoing Was
"Justifiable"
POLK DENIES ACCEPTANCE
and near Bob
i y mo imoerg-i.utik front all day long
Raeelan battalions swept forward In dense
es on this front, only to meet nn un
wavering resistance. An darkn n i.
Russian attacks reached their climax. Three
m urusslIofTs troops battered at the
.Teuton defenses. As they fell back the
5rmans rushed rrom thelr trenches and
sued the Russians so quickly that the
ttr vtTa swept out of their positions
-.rag a, iront of more than a mile.
Jn Volhynla the Russian iitir. ...
ly ,eBa V'Ient or ,e" C0Bl,lr- In e
,"" oviniusKy, southeast of Vladimir
ywrnskr, repeated assaults ailed to break
) Teuton lines. To ih.nnnh .,,..
fcturce, Drusslloff massedhls forces and
Ued the enemjten times without suc
ees. The Austrian commanders report that
the Russians suffered "gigantic losses."
',. i i. ... . .....
eal a varent ,n" lM "ussian com-
tt -TT "" "'" "'"" tneir full strength
- .- ... , uul,n Bn earlJr ucclslon.
at the nercest fighting since early summer
i J?" to b Proving that the Teuton de-
x feasts are as strong as they were claimed
fV Dfl.
Bu a Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON-, Oct. 18. Negotiations
on tho T.usltanla caso hero reached tho
point of a discussion of the monetary value
of the American lives lost In the sinking
of the ship. This becamo known here today
following the publishing of a statement that
tho Administration has accepted the terms
of a German note to tho United States on
February IB, In which aormnny held that
tho sinking of the Lusltanla was Justifiable
and that the loss of American lives was
"regrettable," and In which Germany
agreed to pay Indemnity to the United
States.
The text of this note lias never been given
put by the State department, despite the
fact the German Government Is anxious
tho note shall be given out In order that the
affair may be closed and that Ambassador
Bernstorff may proceed to a discussion of
the amount of Indemnity to be paid for
the loss of American lives.
POLK REFUSES DISCUSSION
Acting Secretary of Stato Tolk partly
denied this report today, saying!
"This note has not been accepted and will
not be given out at this time. The State
Department Is not going to be drawn Into
n discussion of this case at this time. This
is not the moment to discuss questions of
this importance."
Despite this statement, however. It Is
generally understood that although the
text of the German noto has never been
omclally accepted by tho United States, It
has been the Intention of the Administra
tion for Bome'tlme to accept It. It Is pointed
out that tho note could not be accepted
unless made public slmutaneously and that
political considerations might have a great
deal to do with the Administration's desire
not to publish the terms of the agreement
Just previous to election.
It has been known for some time that
the del man note has been lying on the
desk of Secretary of State Lansing, who has
Continued on I'ase Four, Column I'll
iSBffil
1334 "DRYS" PETITION
FOR NEW HEARING ON
BURKE SALOON CASE
License Court Will Consider Pro
posed Revocation of Permit
for Transfer to West
Philadelphia
COMMUTERS' PLAN
FOR CUT IN RATES
FIXED TOMORROW
Counsel Will Agree Upon
Terms to Be Sent to
Roads
LINES' OFFER VOLUNTAPvY
Demands of Commuters
and Present Conditions
ASK
WHAT COMMUTERS WILL
OK RAILROADS
pESTORATION of family ticket
J-ROod for n yenr. (Cost basis yet
uuucicrmincu.;
Establishment .of 100-trip ticket.
Rood for six months on a "zone"
J basis. (Exact rato yet unde-
iurmiiicti.;
WHAT COMMUTERS NOW HAVE
No family ticket of any kind.
Tills class of tickets was abolished
December 16, 1914.
A 100-trip ticket, good for six
months on n basis of 1H cents n
mile.
TRIOS ON CXKNT
QUICK NEWS
FRICK RESIGNS AS READING COMPANY DIRECTOR
Henry C. Frick this afternoon, lestgurd as a director of the Read
ing Company. The resignation was in compliance with the clause
In the Clayton act prohibiting interlocking- directors. C. E. Dllkes,
nnv employe of tho Philadelphia and Itciullng Railway Company, was
elected in his place.
TODAY'S FOOTBALL SCORES
First Lnutel mce, maiden 2-ycar-olds, solllnjj, 0 fuilougs Lord
Jlyron, 1M, Kolsey, $0.10, 91.50. S3.-10. won; N. K. Eeal, 114, Fair
brother, 911.20. ?0.00, second; Sweeter Than Sugar, 1M, Harrington,
ifl.OO, third. Time, l.M a-5. '
Second Lamal race, 3-year-oUU and up, selling, steeplechase,
nbout 2 miles Dixon l'nik, 1-15, H. Williams, $0.10, $3.70, $3.80,
won; Vlflr, 137, D. ifnynee, S5.00, $1.40, bccoiuI; Moshneu, 137, Noc,
?5.S0, third. Time, 3,10.
GREEK REBELS
WILLTRYTO.GET
RECRUITS HERE
Plan to Seek U. S. Permis
sion to Mobilize Coim
trymen in America
ATHENS TORN BY RIOTS
NEIGHBORHOOD AROUSED
A petition for a reopening of the cans
In wlilct$tflchnrt J Iiurko was granted a
llcensa to open a raloon nt Sixtieth street
and Lnnsdowno avenue and for the revoking
of that license was nied today. lt had 1334
signatures.
The petition In now before Judges Bar
ratt and Davis, who will decide whether or
not to hear tho cjise and the protests again.
C. Behtley Collins, attorney for the
"drys" of Iladdlngton'nd Oierbrook, who
hae been lighting the transfer of Burke's
license from Twenty.flrst and Callow-hill
streets to West Philadelphia, brought the
petition to WJlllam "ft'. Turner, deputy clerk
of Quarter Sessions Court, nt 11 o'clock.
Jtr. Turner, sent It to the Judges of the LI
censo Court.
The petition was In the names of Charles
W. Slclvln and Alexander Young, both
property owners nnd residents of the Thirty-fourth
Ward.
Mr. Collins said that tho 1331 names rep
resented almost elghty-rlvo per cent, of the
neighborhood solicited two squares all the
way from Sixtieth street and Lansdowne
and that tho only reason the most of the
other fifteen per cent wero not on tho list
was becauso the canvassers didn't find them
at home.
"And nt that," he said, "many men who
wero missed by the camassers cams around
to see that they were on tho list. There
wero very few persons In faor of tho
saloon and very few 'neutrals."
Mr. Collins said he could hae got thou
sands of signers If the territory canvasses
had been larger. About three hundred resi
dents wero missed In tho canvass.
Paoli Has New Paralysis Cases
Two new cases of Infantile paralyuls
have been reported at Paoll. They were
Grace Todd, seventeen ears old, daughter
of William Todd, and I'aul Menlg, neven
months old, son of John Menlg. The suffer
ers were taken to tho Chester County Hos
pital at West Chester. Miss Todd has com
plained of Illness for a week, but symptoms
of paralysis did not develop until yesterday,
Counsel for the business nnd commuters'
associations of Philadelphia and nearby
towns, who for more than two years hae
heen leading th fight for a reduction In
passenger rates, will meet tomorrow morn
Ing to agree upon tie terms which they
will submit to the railroads as a basis for
ending the long controversy.
The terms which are to be submitted In
writ ng follow a voluntary offer mado by
tho railroads before tho Public Service Com
mission In Harrlsburg yesterday that they
would use the demands of the commuters
as a basis for a friendly adjustment of the
dlputo and that. If possible, they would
comply with the full demands.
The two points In question In the present
controversy are the restoration pt the family
ticket, which was abolished on December
15, 1JH, and the establishment of a "zone"
basis for tho 100 trip ticket, which Is now
sold on the basis of 14 cents a mile.
The rate basis at which the commuters
will ask the return of the family ticket nnd
the details of the "zone" system of com
puting the cost of the 100-trip tickets will
be determined at the conference tomorrow.
Tho meeting has been called for .10:30
o'clock In the office of Edwin M. Abbott,
Land Title llulldlng.
The offer of the railroads to meet the
commuters demands came unexpectedly
beforo the Publla Service Commission
tfrwi.v vnrsftv. - d.i.-.-R-'iL. "S.".. '
v. .....,, ..t.c.t . .iinui. m mo iinuu was
expected. Their adversaries were their pa
trons, the railroads announced, and Inas
much as a victory "would have an unsatis
factory effect" they wero anxious to end
the controversy upon terms favorable to the
commuters.
IMPOSING COUNSEL, AHItAY
It was an Imposing array of counsel for
both sides that took seats In the Senate
chamber of the Capitol before Commis
sioners Hi an, Alcorn, Magee, Drecht nnd
Chairman Ainey Henry W. Dlklo repre
sented tho Pennsylvania Railroad. Charles
It. Webber was there for tho Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad and Wllllum U Klnter
for tho Philadelphia and Heading, On the
other side wero the men who have persist
ently fought tho railroads In the rate Issue
tMward B. Martin nnd William T,
Cooper, for the United Business Men's As
sociation of Philadelphia; Edwin SI. Ab
bott and Matthew Itandall, for the Commu
ters' Association of Philadelphia ; Randolph
W. Chllds, for the Bryn Athyn and Beth
syrea associations j John T. Wagner, for the
Royersford and Phoentxvllla associations;
J Paul StcClree, for the West Cheater
uoarci or Trade; J. s. Freeman, for the
Wayne Publlo Safety Association ; J, Hun
ter Mills and U, W. Young for the Down
Ingtown Association.
The announcement of the railroads was
mado by Blkle, the first to address the
COTTON (JOES Ul $5 A HALE IN TWENTY-FOUR HOURS
Nt:W YORK, Oct. IS. Cotton ctoswwl 10 cents tit noon today, when n rush nf
buying sent July optlonn up 74 contn to 10.17 cents a pound. Prices of nil futures
have advanced 1 cent n pound, m- f5 a halo, In 24 hours, now high records for tho
season, llrokrrs nnd cotton men watched cagctly for news of tho storm reported
sweeping tho ulf States. Although 75 per cent of the cotton Is icportcd In. dnm
ngc to Hint yet standing wan fen red. Thq South nnd Liverpool wero heavy buyers
In today's spectacular innikrt. In which brokers bought wildly.
PATTEN LOOKS FOR $2 WHEAT
NKW YORK. Oct. tft. Jnincs Patten, of Chicago, uni on tho Pioduce llxulmngo
this nioinliig und wilil thnt lie licllovcd unquestionable that wheat would eventually
sell nt Sir. ISuiy t,Mlav whom sol.l at high lecords In Olileiigo. December- going
above $l.Ct, .Mn t.. $1 cii nnd Julv to M M i bushel i
WIIMASI III.'W
AGAIN REPORTED KILLED IN ACTION
l . !Al.. it in i uii.luin Tlmvv, tl.o Aineih.an aviator who Is
a me . ir , -i ,j, , x. ci (, .,-n,,,, , jrillnK U news re-
cclvcil in Vnlo tiMlnv In a ieite,. from 8. Walker, Vale, 1917. No dotnlN nro Riven.
Thaw wits a lutmibei of thu class of 1915, Ynlc, but did not graduate. (This Is tho
second time a report has renched this country of Thaw's death. Tho first camo
from Paris on April 21, but vvns later denied.)
ARABIAN TRIBES AT WAR, REPORT SAYS
Ui:i:LlN, Oct. IS. War 1ms broken out among two of tho leading tribes of
Arabia oh tho lesult of tho recent robellion of hostllo Arabs against tho Turks.
Reports received In Constantinople from Oshman. Damanli, stato that the powerful
wcst-Aralilan titilckh, Abdul Axlb Kiinson Kmln Scld, has declared war on tho former
Emir Hussein on the ground that the latter rebelled ngnlnst the Sultan. Hhetlih
Abdul I'hells declared u war footing nnd sent delegates to Damuslc repeating assur
ances of tUelllv to the Khalifat.
ROOSEVELT'S TRAIN DELAYED BY FREIGHT WRECK
AUOAIID ROOSi:Vi:ir TRAIN, Springfield. O. Opt. 18. A freight train dc.
rallmont near Delaware nbout midnight forced tho Roosovelt special to detour about
150 mlka during toduy's smnll hours und gummed up tho Colonel's speaking- dates
for tho day. The campaign siieclul vvus shunted to the Ulir Four's sldn linn nt
-Qallon-nTttl'dldn't get buck mi the main lino until KnrlnVtlcl.iAin. rnrim,) vtn
than two hours weie loit
Vcnizelists Will Plead for Of
ficial Recognition by
Allies
TWO BOYS STRICKEN WITH APPENDICITIS AT SAME TIME
Two Camden Ikivs students ft tho William I'cnu Chaitor School, this city, who
live In tho romp b'o . w . m liken with uppomlrltls together, were operated on
togctoer In tho huimo luiMpUnl and now, on adjoining rots, nre on tho road to recovery
together, Tliey.ml Duviu . litrl:, 311 Cooper stieot, and Robert U IMltemon, son of
County Clerk Patterson, 327 Cooper street, l'-ioh Is cKtcen years old. Clark becamo
III Saturday and Patterson Sunday and both wero operated on Monday.
CHICAGO TO LEAD PRESIDENTIAL VOTE; 808,161 REGISTER
CHICAGO, Oct. 18. Chicago will cast moro votes In 'the coming-presidential cloc
tlon than any city In tho United Stntcs. This was nssured today vvhon final registra
tion figures wero submitted showing 808,011 persona qualified to ballot. Jfevv York
has only 738,710, 'but vvuinun do not have tho ballot time.
CRACKS HIS JAW AS HE TRIES TO CRACK HICKORY NUT
Tilng to crack, a hlclcoty nut with his teeth cracked tho Jaw of 'John Fox,
842 North Twelfth street. Vox was eating nuts In his room yesterday, cracking them
with his teeth. When ho tried the hickory nut It proved n hard ono to crack. IIo
put his chin in his hand nnd, resting hla elbow on the tablo, tried to forco his Jaws
together. Tho bone broke. Fox, suffering from tho pain, walked to tho Children'a
Hospital, whero tho fracturo was reset.
Continued en I'ase SU, Column Fife
1UMAUIANS RESU3IE
OFFENSIVE AND HURL
BACK TEDTON FOES
s . BUCHAREST, Oct, 11.
Austro-Oerman troona hv inni,.
i- MUck on tho whole CaCrpathlan front, It
? XclaIly announced today. Thus far
t k! ttack" haVB ben unsuccessful and all
nWa from the frnnf l -,...
- - . l,yviU 4VI-
In the region of the Predeal Pass, south
Kronsut, the Itumanlans resumed the
slv and drove the epttny back upon
Transylvanlan ilonn vhr i, ,)....,
ttskhtlsr U progressing'.
MNDON, Oct, II.
The Rumanians ar utasirfinu- im in ivi
l!UfUm P" Transylvania, At every
, 9 In the wstera and aWthern frontiers
e smikenhara'a itiuum. ... ..
, nemy' Ud have been crushed by
a Fas raw, CVIihm Three
TH WEATHER
For.
MM
Mv
-rat
FORSPAST
ilaMphU and vftimtyUn
e tonight and Thurtdav, with
(aw; warmer ThmttUy: mod-
rJJ"r(Ma( indi, iHtreattw
,, ' UCKQTH OK MAV
9mAMM HiVHK TfMt CsMIHMIM
te , cMKtrrMUT rmwrr
-1 -- tMim wsjutw 1 1 w mm rm
yriwM at turn
w i ffp i i jp, t
E
75, HE FINDS HIS THIRD
SOUL MATE; SHE'S 27
Captain S. H. Martin, Former
Philadelphinn, Says "We're
Both Happier Than Ever"
Enin. P., Oct. 18. Captain Sylvester
II, Martin, former Philadelphia politician
nnd present commander of tho Pennsylva
nia Soldiers ami Sailors' Home In Erie, has
found his third soul mate t the ago of
seventy-five years. He. has taken unto him
self a third wife In the person of Miss
Cecilia McQulllIan, twenty-seven years old,
formerly employed as a nurse at .the Sol
diers' Home, The wedding took place last
night In Sacred Heart Romnn Catholic
Church, the Rev. Francis j. Bender offl
elating. Captain Martin cams to the. homo here
thirteen years ago, and nine years ago wss
promoted from adjutant 'to commander. He
took 'his bride to ths commander's house
last evening, and whw questioned regard
lag hta marrlg. "'
The Almighty ha a hand In It. We
will not go on a honsymAon, but will hays
a beaeymoen here as long as wa Hva. W
are both haH!- " " Utef "
lives."
Wr M oI ,, fft wM Ud 1
HIT a4 4 " ! "-(Bg-
taSrK h J"01 " "
Um, hvtts it sUchwftys to HiMeaslyhla.
friisM, F1yr. UA Kvr
BOVTOK. Oct. II. .Tbs body erf Hmhi
Prlnc, Us Antrim vtator UUOr tnsii
(. m. FtmmIi ir rK OlliniH. rV kt
MWfkt to owww m - -, ,
PARALYSIS DISMISSES
CLYMER SCHOOL CLASS
West Philadelphia High School
Boy Also Stricken With
DiBeaso
One class In the Clymer School of Prac
tice, Thirteenth and Cambria streets, was
dismissed today by Dr Walter S. Cornell,
chief ;nedlcal Inspector of publlo schools,
after Investigating the caso of Margaret
Hllcker, twelve years old, of SS1S North
Eighth street, a pupil of tho class, who
was stricken with Infantllo paralysis latt
night.
Tho girl's three-year-old brother, Walter,
was stricken with tho disease today. The
case of an eighteen-year-old pupil In the
West Philadelphia High School for Uoya
also has been reported to the Board of
Health. The three patients aro being
treated In the Municipal Hospital,
Ttia high school boy Is Kdmond Flanagan,
of 4532 Regent street. He was stricken
at his home on Saturday, but had not
ben attending sehool for ths last week,
Oector Cornell said.
The puWl-a schools certalflly will not, be
clwad, Doctor Cairns said today. All the
oases of Ihvc will b Investigated, and
k may be ncsry to dlamlss a few
classaa for a period of savefal days, Th
sebsol sMMran will b ktt under obsrva
tlon for twa wk by pivlclan.
ft toUU number of hm riareel nw
Is itssi Um wawber of tit. Two
casas war itMurtd last nivttt. They were
tho of aUrU da lAumeuutU.lt, fpurtaaa
watrfka oU, of 1M ChrkrtJuMi atrast, aviMI
awry Wieka), tour ssanUM aaf. ( ail
flPW"ssfllWr "WsFaW"Pi
M
SEVEN PERSONS KILLED
' AS GALE HITS MOBILE
Wind Increases to 98 Miles.
Alarm Along Storm-Swept
Gulf Coast
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Oct 18 Seven per
sons wero k'.l'od when a house was blown
down at Mobile today, according to reports
here. The wind's velocity has Increased to
ninety-eight miles an hour. An unidentified
schooner Is floating on Its side in Mobile
Bay. dreat damage at Blloxl and Missis
sippi City Is reported.
The gale Is rweeplng all along the Florida
and Alabama coasts. Small vessels are
hurrying to Mielter, Telephone and tele
graph poles have been snapped off or blown
down all along the coast and communica
tion with many towns cut off A driving
rain Is accompanying ths gale.
Pensacola u ported a tide nearly three
feet higher than normal.
2-12,518 REPUBLICANS, 35,679 DEMOCRATS REGISTERED
The total registration In the city this year Is 301,417, with 242,518 Ilepubllcans,
35,679 Democratic nnd 22,181 nonpartisan voters registering, Tho total Is tho largest
slnco the personal registration act was passed and shows an Incroaso of 34,99a over
the figures In tho presidential campulgu of 1912 unu or 14,149 over thoso of last year,
Tho Republican registration was tho largest over reported hcte. Washington party
registration totalrd 2254, Keystnno 121, iot-inll.t 1103 and Prohibition 228. The
heaviest registration wbb In the Twcnty-wond Wiird, with 14,180 for all parties.
FRANKFORD ARSENAL IMPROVEMENTS WILL COST $900,000
Additions and improvement!! that will cost 8900,000 havo been started at tho
Frankford Arsenal, whero 815,000,000 will bo spent this year In turning out munitions
for tho Government, according to Colonel (Jrorgo Montgomery, commanding ofllccr.
This Is three times tho amount expended last year. Kxtonalona of tho artillery
ammunition storehouse, metal storehouse, and fuse shop, costing 8190,000, will bo
ready next June.
NONPARTISAN RAILMEN ATTACK EIGHT-HOUR LAW
CHICAGO, Oct. 18. Tho Hallway Workers Nonpartisan Association, vvhluh Is
said to havo 10,000 members, today announced Us opposition to thq Adamson wage
law. Through lis national chairman, W. .1. Plnkorton, of Chicago, tho association
addressed a circular letter to W. Q. I.e. president of tho Hrotherhood of llallroad
Trainmen, In which tho Adamoon act Is described us 'tho death knell of tho economic
organizations, tho railroad brothorhoodH,"
HELD ON FRAUD CHARGE
Youth Accused of Using Alleged Letter
by Phyeiclan to Obtain Money
A letter supposedly written by Dr, U
Wbtr Vox, noted eye Bo'alUrti but which
was'aoM by the physician to ba a forgery,
reauUed In a man who was "profession
ally" blind being held wider MM ball far
aewt this morning by Maglatrata Haaten
at Mm Central H tat Ion.
Yfea 4afen4ant, Jottn JUga. twenty yaara
aid. of mi Folt Jaraasa avau, WM
eem utaf taw letter to otHftla witnar
fram araas oWlUbb bMMna. ga eaj
mM aaoe safer ki aagaantla wMk
tmttar IMttt. ,
LAUGHLIN NAMED FOR LEGISLATURE IN 21ST DISTRICT
James It Ijiughlln, an attorney of tho Twcnty-sovonth Ward, has bcon named
as Democratic candidate for tho Teglslaturo In tho Twenty.flrst District to take tho
placo of Albert 11. 1-adncr, Jr., appointed Heglstrntlon Commissioner.
GERMANS SAID TO HAVE SHOT TWELVE WORKMEN
INDON, Oct 18 An Kxclmnge Telegraph dispatch from Amsterdam fcaya
that when tho Germans, as previously reported, sent Client workmen to Germany
twelve of the workmen who resisted doportatiou were shot.
RED CROSS HOSPITALS TO BE MOBILIZED FOR SURGEONS
Part of ono of the, lied Cross imiso hospital will be mobilised on He-mont
plateau October 28 during tho convention of the' American Surgical Association in u
preparedness demonstration. Plaris havo been completed for the mobilisation trf
twenty-six such hoapltals, of 600 beds, twenty-five 'doctors and ty nuraaa and
attendants, at a cost of 125,000 each, according to Miss Mai I Hoardman, haA
of the American Red Cross.
SIXTEEN COLLEGES PLACED IN ARMY RBSERVS
WAHIJJNqTON, Oct, 18, Pollowirw the conference karavof War TVrtr1JWit
aWotabi vvlth rerenUtlvwi cf nineteen unlvrltUa and peissayss. ilsa I'sJtnwc '-.M
tutlona have baan authorlsad to give military Isatructlon: DiAoa4on Ualvafatti' Bavr
vaiw Untvarslty, Ys.ta Unvrslty, tnlverjtlty at Mlchujaii, Untvaralty TAtobiiina,
yjrgtaU MlUUry institute, srtevami Institute of Technology, Catholic University of
marlo, Lablgh University, Ohio Plate University. UnU amity of Tennessee, titmeati
Jkajrioulturel Cellece, Unjverelty of Mlnneeot. University tt iUinoia. city frlkne at
Km Yeea University vf Vareaoat. v ''mm
ATHENS, Oct II. Venlietlst leaders to
day decided to call upon tho Allies to for
mally recognize the new provisional ff
erment set up nt Ralonlca, favoring'
a recce's Intervention In the war.
This decision was, reached after twe
days of serious djsturbancea In the Greek
capital. In which the mobs threatened te
attack Allied marines.
Two dlptomatlo missions were organised.''
They will .present tho case of tho pro
visional government to the Allies, declar
ing that only formal recognition of thle
new government will save Greece from
utter chaos.
Negotiations have been begun Informal
ly with the United States to permit the
resulting of Oreck armies In Amerlea, In
the event that the United States recognises
tho now Government. Itecrultlng agents
will be sent to the United States, to Egypt.
Cyprus and Patras, If the desired permis
sion la secured.
ATIin.N'S' CBOWDS 1UOT
Threatened with attack by a fcuge
crowd of anti-Ally demonstrators, the
French marine force that occupied the mu
nlclpal theater has abandoned the building
and encamped In the Zeappaleon aardenst
near the royal palace.
Greek troops nro still patrolling the
atrocts and a Oreek battalion Is guarding
tho royal palace. The situation Is most
tense. Anti-Ally leaders are working
among tho crowds denouncing the Allies
for seizing the Greek warships and attempt
ing to stir the mobs to new demonstrations
of hostility toward the Alllesv sailors. Seme
of these leaders have been put'under afreet ''
by French and Italian troops.
Tho Allies have detained twenty-five oar.
Itads of ammunition at Volo. In Tliniss)ty.
which were destined for tho Interior of
Thessajly. ,v
Athens is virtually Tinder martial ,Iaw.
All sorts of alarming rumors are Jn eh-
;uiioii, nui coot neads kre attempting t
prevent a clash between French sallafs
and the civilian demonstrators that would
develop Into street fighting with most seri
ous consequences. "
KING NOT IN FUGHT
r.eporta thnt King Constantlne has fled
are denied by Oreek officials. They declare
that lbo King returned to Tatol Palaee
Monday night nfter reviewing the Oreek
marines and attending a Cabinet council
at which a proclamation, calling upon the "
soldiers to remain loyal, wau drafted.
Tho trouble began Monday afternoon.
Great crowds had gathered to watch Greek
sailors from the shlpi taken over by the
Allies pass In review beforo King Constan
tlne. As the parade ended and the King
took his departure, amid cheers, several
shouts of "Down with Venlxelosl" and
''Down with tho Allies" were heard. A
Oreek politician, a supporter of Venlsaloa,
was recognised by several In tho orow.
set upon and badly beaten without Inter--.
ference by the police. -s'
Shortly afterward French marines lan44 '
at Piraeus on reports that riots wtre'threat
entng reached 'the capital and took poseee
sioi. of the Municipal Theater, A great
crowd, formed partly of Greek reservists
swarmed about the marines and sheutesl
Insulting remarks.
The French got their machine guns. ready
for action, but to avoid troublo withdrew
Inside the theater.
"DOWN WITH KNGI.AND"
Oreek troops appeared and drove the
crowds back, establishing a cordon about
tho square. The crowd then split lute
several sections One band demonstrate
before the Urlttsh legation, where a e
who shouted "Down with England." we
arrested by the legation guards.
Another crowd obtained an Amerlean flag
and carrying this at the head of the pro
cession marched to the American Tiagallosi
cheering the United States, The Amarioasi
Minister was at the Athenian Clue, but the
demonstrators left behind a communicata
calling upon him to protest In the name eel
the United States against the recent ataa
taken by the Allies. This was signed by
a deputation of Gounarlst reservists. Tastr
were Informed today that thecoimUBloetloi
would be transmitted, to Washington,
A novva agency dispatch says that there
was a meeting of too Oreek cabfaet o
Cat4ed on I'M Yvtt,
WOMAN SHOOTS MAN7
INCR0WDH)
Coreppondvttt, Nd by
Hupbeind in Dkm&e Suit,
WwuMkd
i -
CHlOAOtt, Oat. "-Iactato 1st jg
reu S oewnioefa were iiu-own into :
Malay wfcea black -uwnl. hoaylb
vyasssM uiree eboto at JautA
T woman' wait Mrs sUihertatt
whgaa husband suing bar for
aaintac lUaua. TUe wwia was
overt9wert4 by . uuri attendants, Mt 4
Ocfore lhar had town a gaaeral Hist J
eJt t wMoh eevereJ twrevae we
t&
