fppilpp
VOL. 51
Sis-:
5
THIS PAPER Issued In
two sections Section
One—p«ges to S—Lo
cal newa, atorlea, corre
apondanca and Oanlaon
locals.
CLOSES EYES TO
B. N. Bitnaon, Pioneer of Stockholm
Townahlp and Kiron, Paaaee to
Great Unknown October 6th
LONG AILMENT AND SUFFERING
Deceaaed a Native of 8weden and
Came to America in 1868 and to
Crawford County in 1877
KIRON, Oct. 17—Special
After many months of sickqess, on
Friday, October 6th, at 2 o'clock, our
4ownsman and pioneer, B. N. Benson,
closed his eyes to the scenes of this
tvorld and his fong course came to an
end. As his tyng ailment and suffer
ings were well known among his
friends and the report sent out from
the home during the last weeks that
he was gradually growing weaker, the
news of his death was expected, as
the nature of his ailments together
with his advanced age afforded no
hopes of his recovery. During his suf
ferings be bore up most patiently and
during the last month he very fre
quently expressed his desire to leave
this world which had for so many
•'..n, years been his home, to pass on into
the. eternal home beyond where time
vv
never changes or mars the enjoymentF
of sickness and pain never racks the
body. Thus his wish was fulfilled on
Friday afternoon when surrounding
his bed were his fathful wife, Mrs. El
len Stone, of Omaha Mrs. Richard M.
Johnston, of Denlson, and E. 7. Will
iams, of Redfleld, S. D.
Ben N. Benson was born June 10
1838, in Onestad, Christianstads lan,
SwMen. At the age of 21 he was mar
ried to Celia Hanson. To this union
seven children were born, two passing
away in infancy in Sweden, and a son,
Frank, in Kiron in 1885. Those sur
viving are Helen Johnson, of Denison
Anna Kulberg, of Cherokee Robert, of
Moline, 111., and Jennie C. Harvey, of
I^acey, Iowa. The mother of this fam
ily passed away in January, 1875. In
1876 Mr. Benson married Mrs. Will
iam Linquist, and to this union seven
children were born, two passing away
in early childhood. Those surviving
are Ellen Stone, of Omaha Emma
Roll, of Arthur Lydia Mengis. of
Lowell, Wyo. Arthur E., of Kiron,
and Fred A., of Waterbury, Neb. Be
sides this family there were three step
children, Harvey N. Williams, who
passed away March 20th of this year
Eaalas E. Williams, of Redfleld,
Aldrich chas curator
Historical dem
.8.
D.,
and Efether Lundgren, of Denison. Mr.
Benson earns- from Sweden tcr MoWne*
111 In the sprlnfe of 1868 and lived
alternately at Molein atid fllpokuk,
working on the cana Hocks and Water
power. Being a brick layer in Swe
den. he later engaged in that line of
work.
In the year 1877 he came with his
family to Kiron, locating on what be
came the old homestead west of town
now owned and occupied by' the Reecy
brothers. There they resided until
the railroad was built through this sec
tion, and when the new Kiron was lo
cated Mr. Benson sold bis propertv
and moved Into the town, which he af
terwards in a great measure assisted
to build up. During all this time Mr.
Benson faithfully worked at his trade
and being a good carpenter in connec
tion with his trade as a mason, where
'ever he went his conscientious and
able work was his best advertisement
and he was sought for miles around
when any work in his- line was to be
done. We doubt if a place in the set
tlement and its outskirts can be named
but either some masonry or carpenter
work has been done by Mr. Benson
Dear: Friend:
.The care of the Emma Fuller Memor
ial school for girls at Yenplng with the
oversight of the girls day schopl work
in the surrounding region has again
changed hands, and you mav be glad to
have some glimpses of this field through
eyes that have not become too accus
tomed to its breadth. Its beauty and its
opportunities.
Yenplng itself is beautiful for situa
tion, scattered as It Is over the low root
lilllB of the splendid mountain mass ly
ing between the two forks of the Mln
river which divides in front of and al
most encircles the city. The school at
the back of the town and on its highest
eminence, appears to the traveler whe
first views it from a bend In the river
seVeral miles below, as though It rested
on a table land half way between th
low green swells in front and the cloud
draped purple summits in the rear.
This term the school has had an en
rollment of seventy-seven girls, ranginr
In age from eight to twenty-five years
and in grade from first primary to fourth
intermediate. As our day school work
develops and strengthens, we hope tr
slowly eliminate the primary depart
ment! but at present with ieasi than twen
ty .daraWJhools In. all its tributary, terri
tory.: one hundred land twenty miles ir
lerfgtibby one. hundred in breadth, it can
not'ibej Wondered ,that many girls whe
haveMtever had an opportunity for an
perittaratory work knock for. admisBlor
atfttwdovn of the. Emma Fuller Memor
ial-school—end are admitted- Just here
I -stopped to solve a simple problem ir,
arithmetic to see how many.day sohooli
would be necessary to provide this reir
Ion with the same facilities for element
ary education that my native state
Iowa gives to her population with hei
rural school districts of four squar
miles each. Tou can readily see that t
"answer" Is three thousand. It Is true
that christian missions may not be call
ed upon to maintain that number of
schools In this part of Fuklen. Some
day—we hope a not far distant one—the
Chinese government will arise and ex
ercise her prerogative of educating lie)
own people. She will need teachers fo
these three thousand schools. The hop
of the Church of Christ is that they maj
be christian teachers. Where shall th^
be trained? At present the Emma Full
er Memorial school is the only institu
tion for the training of day school teach
ers in all this great district, you can- se
iwtoi i-v ik
likewise he has assisted in erecting
school houses and many public "Guild
ings.
Mr. Benson had his faults and as al
ways is the case was criticized at
times for the same, but he was a man
possessing qualities that could be de
pended upon and exceeded far many
of those who were prone to pass criti
cism upon him. Always neighborly
and open hearted and handed to those
who were in need and at all times he
thought more of the interests of oth
ers than he did of his own. He sacri
flced self interest and comfort for
those of his fellow men and one of his
faults, according to the writer, was
that he sacrificed too much for others
to the detriment of his own persona!
welfare. Qenlal and good natured and
a hard working, man, his work and
word at all times could be relied upon.
During his early years in Sweden he
became converted and joined the Bap
tist church and after coming to this lo
cality belonged^ to the Baptist church
later joining the Free Mission church
laying the foundation where its build
lng was erected near the cemetery
At his death he had attained the ripe
old age of .78 years, 4 months and 26
days, a long journey on which was a
good portion of both sunshine and
.storms, and at last he has reached the
filial port to take the long, well needed
rest, forever freed from all storms
and trials. The file of the pioneers
of' tbife locality and town has been
lessened 6pe in number by his death
The funeral took place on Suntay
afternoon. A short sermon was given
at the home, after which the remains
were taken to the .Baptist church, from
Which the funeral was conducted by
Rev. N. N. Morton, assisted by Rev. A
Lagerstrom. The church was packed
by old neighbors and friends of the de
ceased. The pall bearers were his
four sons. The remains were placed
to rest in the Kiron cemetery. So we
bid farewell for some time to our pio
neer friends and citizens and neigh
bors, whose familiar faces will be
missed from our midst.
On meeting an argumentative man
previous to election, prudent people
feel that there are phases of this fall's
weather that need to be very thorough
ly discussed.
JOHN BURNS.
The. Great English Labor
Laadar aa Ha la Today.
Photo by Aitioiican r»«—* AbSuctation.
A
Yen ping-, China, June 3, 191^6.
how this school ought to grow, in or
der to measure up to even a tithe of
opportunities that confront us, and yot
can also see that such growth can bee
be brought about by strengthening an
broadening our primary school founda
tions. To this end, we are this year ask
ing appropriations for ten new da
schools which we hope to put at strate
gic points In this territory. Perhaps yot
who are already supporting work in thii
l»rt of the kingdom may be able to I
terest some one else who will be glad
assume the support of one of these day
schools at $35 per year. Will you not
try?
It has just been my privilege to make
a visit to one of tlie' outposts of our
work. The trip took us six days by boat
and one by chair, -where the branching
stream became too turbulent for navi
gation. We were able to make about
twenty miles each day. which we were
afterward told Is record time. At night
fall our boatman tied up near some vil
lage, sufficiently large to afford protec
tion from .robbers with which the region
Infested and who might make trouble
for the passengers and crew of a lone
boat too far removed from a settlement
to bring speedly help by their cries. In
the gray dawn the boatman was up ant
at work and had made a good beginning
on his day's run before his breakfast,
prepared by his capable little daughter
who makes the trip with him, was ready
tor him, or we for ours.
Sometimes we. weary of sitting Turk
fashion on the floor of our boat, wouli
take the footpath by the side of the
stream, careful not tr. get too far in ad
vance of our boats. Sometimes we pre
fer to sit for hours at the "door" of our
mat covered "cabin" where we can feast
our eyes more uninterruptedly on the
beauties of our winding way. Here 1
a wonderful waterfall, which might well
be named the "bridal veil," so exqui
sitely ethereal are the filmy sheets oi
spray formed where the mountain stream
suddenly takes a headlong leap over a
precipitous descent of "many tens" of
feet. But if this is the bridal vei!,
bridal wreath is also not wanting. V"
ever saw such a riot of wild flowers—
lilacs, syringa, sweet briar, honey auck'
rhododendrum, and in the far or near
background whole mountain sides of
dark green pine interspersed with the
more delicate shades of the feathery
bamboo, or again relieved with masses
of great chestnut trees in the full
'v 4^
iliifflt 11 )TrTr I
CLARA 8IEVERS DEAD
Twelve Year Old Daughter of Mr. and
Mra. Herman Sievera Paaaed Away
on Wedneaday, October 11th.
Clara Sievers, twelve year old
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Herman Siev
ers, died at the home of her parents
in Nishnabotny township on Wednes
day, October 11th. Clara ha'd not been
in good health for the past year or
more and on one or more occasions her
life had been despaired of. Every
thing possible was done for her by her
fond parents and loving friends, but
all to no avail.
The deceased was born Feb. 23,1904.
inNtshnabotny tpwnship. and at the
time of tier death was 12 years, 7
months and 18 days of art). Besides
hflr parents she leaves" tq mourn her
death the following sisters and broth
er:
Mrs.
D. Vanier, of Denison Mrs.
Wm. Glau, of Hanover township 01
ga, Adelia and Emil, residing at home.
Funeral services were held last Sat
urday at the German Lutheran church
In this city, Rev. Wm. Frese, the pas
tor. officiating, after which interment
was inade in the Lutheran cemetery.
The family have the sympathy of the
entire community in their bereave
ment.
Stirred by fervent patriotic emo
tions the politicians are zealously prom
ining to grab for their share of the
pork.
After blaming the farmer for ina
bility to agree and co-operate with his
neighbors, the public proceeds to
growl about the high prices establish
ed in the many cases now where they
do get together.
glory of their creamy bloom. .The con
tour changes and for a whole day w
In the midst of the palisades of the Sa,
where the luxuriant verdure creops
the very waters edge, softening into
marvelous beauty the jagged point's
which compel the stream to change Its
direction every few rods. Again* ti
scene shifts and the banks of our river
are crowned with magnificent ronk for
mations. Here is a fine old tower and
villa, together overgrown by wild Ivy
on the opposite bank is a great dun-
gorlng
eon with a great cathedral on a nelgh
hill. Here again on our right is
a monstrous armory, an immense stadi
um, and a veritable Glbralter rising
straight from the waters edge. Our emo
tions as we watch the\slowly unfolding
panorama could find expression' In noth
ing less sublime than the song of praise
"Great and marvelous are thy works,
O liord God almighty."
But all this is only incidental—one of
the things that God "adds" to the life
of the missionary. While it is true that
a trourist traveling for the sake of trav
el alone could never enjoy the privilege
that for six days has been ours of sub
merging ones self in the beautiful until
one's whole being is saturated with Its
Influence, yet this is not what brought
us on this trip, neither is It that which
most thrilled our. souls. Between TCen-.
ping and Sa Shlen, the first fortyr-mile^
of our trip, we pass 'two points wheeft'
the Church of Christ has made a ,stimgr,
gllng beginning. Sa Shien itself nis,: ,,
walled "city" of 20000 inhabita,nts.. its/
massive well kept gates betoken prld*
wealth and conservatism which is round
within. The streets, wide, well pnvf
and clean afford far better walking than
the dirty cobble stones of the main thor
oughfare of Yenplng. We find our way
to the excellently located church on
main street. Unpretentious, but roomy
and clean, it is fitting place from
which to "fling out the Banner" over the
sinful, self satisfied city. We had plan
ned only a call at the parsonage, but our
boatman Informs Us that he can not pos
sibly make the next safe stopping place
that night, and the bandits are active
these days. With a courage born, per
haps. of Ignorance we say, "We do not
mind taking the risk if you do not."He
passes the word on to his patrner who
replies, "They may not be afraid, but we
have our two children along." It is a
well known fact that the bandits delight
in kidnapping children and holding them
THE DEN ISDN REVIEW
'itS'
THE PAPER YOU TAKE HOME
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, OCT. 18, 1916.
KtltSQH
CHARLES K. MiYERS INJURED
Making Adjustment to Big Carpet
Wheel and Was' Knocked Into
Pit Under the Machine.
Mr. Chas'. K. Meyers, of the local
post office force, rafet with an accident
last Friday evening at his carpet clean
ing establishment In East Denison that
necessitated his remaining at home for
several days.
Mr. Meyers was'operating the big
carpet wheel and while making some
adjustments to the machine, which
was in operation, the wheel struck him
on the shoulders, ftrcing him down
into the pit. Fortupately John Black
man happened into the building and
found Mr. }even%iiPder -theinncltlne
able to give direedbmr 'ta tar how to
stop the engine. Mr. Meyers was bad
ly bruised, bnt is receiving the con
gratulations of his friends-i that the in
juries were not of a more serious
character.
It is claimed that hunters should
pay $5.00 extra license fee for the
privilege of shootings guides.
The noble Carranza troops will start
out in pursuit of Villa when. they have
had sufficient practice in shutting,
their eyes.
College manners have certainly
Improved. Instead of cooling off a
freshman under a pump, they merely
freeze him to death by not speaking
to him.
The merchant who complains that
the public is always wanting some
new thing is usually the same one who
doesn't advejtise his left over goods
and work them off while people will
take them.
for a ransom, so we acquiesce, not sor
ry to spend the remainder of the day in
Sa Slrten. We make a few calls, one of
them to a little medicine shop maintained
by two of the earliest graduates of our
woman's hospital in Foochow. .We are
attracted by the fine strong face of the
doctor and her daughter, a.-girl of-nine
teen who shows every evidence of having
been trained in a christian school. We
(ind that she tms studied In Yenping un
til within year and a half of gradua
tion, when her mother had a painful ac
cident with a drug which cost her right
hand and made it necessary for the
daughter to leave school. It was a su.
story, but I found my heart leaplnr
wlthin me. One grief since my arrival
in this field has been, that in a center like
Sa Shlen we could have no day schools
for girls, because there was no one
teach it, but here is a girl who has had
six and one half years'. training. Why
not she? True, our ideal is graduation,
but in such an emenBency. could we afford
to waste this girl? We acted on the spur
of the moment and asked her "Would
you be glad to teach,a day.school here?"
Her face glowed as she answered. "Jf
you will trust me to do the work I shall
be glad to do my best." Later inquiries
confirmed the guidance of that moment,
fortifevery one declared her to be a fine
reliable-girl and a letter has come since
tawing.that she already has a beginning
pf twelve pupils.
nAfter our round of calls, we- have, an
hour or two to visit with the. wife of the
district superintendent, who tells us
many things about the city, its customs
and its needs, which make our hearts
burn, and a plan is born out of that af
ternoon's work, to bring a few of our
teachers with us, after the close of the
boarding school, and live here for two
weeks, supplementing the work of the
bible woman, day school teacher and
pastor's wife by an active campaign for
the women of the place, whose highest
vision of life at present is to whilw
away their shut in days by gambling,
smoktng and gossip. Interspersed with
the conversation were thrilling stories
of the depredations and atrocities of the
brigands which may have accounted for
a slight feeling of depression, as WP
started down the streets after dark, still
followed by the curous, and It seemed
to us, not altogether sympathetic crowd.
We could not but wish that we were to
spend the night in the hospitable par
sonage Inside the city walls, instead of
Minora
•''CALLED TO REST
F. M. Day, An Old Resident of Craw
ford County, Paaaes Away at
Hospital Last Thuraday.
RESULT OF A BROKEN LEG
Funeral Scrvicea Held at Detoit Mon
day Afternoon. Rev. J. L. Boyd,
of Denison, Officiating.
F, M. Day, an old resident of Craw
ford county, died at the hospital in
Denison on last Thursday night, Oc
tober 12th. Some two weeks ago Mr.
Day broke his leg while sweeping
leaves from the gutters at his home at
Deloit and was brought to the hospi
tal in Denison for treatment. On ac
count of his advanced years he was
unable to withstand the shock and
passed peacefully away.
The deceased was born in Fountain
county, Indiana, on the Oth day of Sep
tember, 1848. He came to Crawford
county in the year 1871, settling near
Vail. About, four years ago he sold
his farm to Mr. J. M. Wqolsencroft
and moved to Deloit, where he has
since resided. Mr. Day waB a member
and the Masonic lodge at Vail. He
had many friends in fact had none
but friends^ Ha was known and loved
for hie good, cheery disposition and at
all times was interested in the welfare
of his friends and neighbors. Those
who knew ijiih best admired him for
his honesty and upright character. Mr.
Day was a man who never looked for
faults in people, but at all times was
ready to lift up and to advance the
best Tntererts of his fellow men. He
was a friend of everyone and was a
welcome visitor in every home at
which he happened to call. He leaves
to mourn his death three brothers and
two sisters as follows: Sarah A. Rol
lins, of Silver City, N. M. Susan E.
Fox, of Paris. Texas J. W. Day, of Or
leans. Ind. T. J. Day. of Ye|te, Ind.,
and Chas. Day. of Mansfield, S. D.
Funeral services were held at the
Methodist church in Deloit Monday af
ternoon at 1 o'clock. Rev. J. L. Boyd,
pastor of the M. E. church in Denison,
officiating.. The funeral was largely
attended ,by the old friends and neigh
bors who gathered to pay their re
spets to their old friend. The Odd Fel
lows of Denison attended the services
in a body and had charge of the serv
ices at the cemetery. Interment was
made in the King cemetery northwest
of VaiL
Big Cavee for Box Butte Potatoes.'
HEMINGFORD, Neb., Oct 4—F.
Coil, Sr., a farmer north of Heming
ford, has raised sweet clover seed on
dry land this year which will yield
him $108 per acre.
The farmers here are building more
than a score of cellars on their farms
to store their big crop .of potatoes,
especially the red potatoes which go
south for seed.
About twenty buyers are operating
here, most of them from the east.
A Minneapolis firm Is just complet
ing a mammoth potato cave 70x140
feet in size, and a Chicago house has
two very large caves. An Alexandria
La., firm is figuring on building a
cave and warehouse for potatoes f^rf
southern seed.'and two local buyers
are also about to let cpntracts for
warehouses, Including elevator and
caves. These hold from thirty to
reventy cars each.
Wonderful bargains are offered in
Wail street with blue sky only $1.00 a
yard.
in the "outer darkness" In our little boat,
but that would mean a later start next
day and we were already behind our
schedule. Presently we found the little
song "Be not afraid, whate'er betide
God will take care of you." singing
itself over In our hearts. We committed
ourselves to His care He gave us sleep,
and returning consciousness found us
well started on our next day's journey.
Sixty miles of fertile, prosperous and
opulous territory from Sa Shien to Yung
An' without a single day school, bible
woman's, pastor or place of christian
worship. Does it sound as though our
task Is nearing accomplishment?
We reached our "safe stopping place"
in good season, anchored across from a
large village, and weary of the boat Miss
Strow and I decided to take a short walk.
Noticing a group of native women ap
proaching our boat, we went back that
we might perhaps talk with them, and
observing their dress and physique were
very different from anything we ha
seen. The upper garment of green, blue
or purple extended well below tte knees
and was cut after a most capacious pat
tern. The sleeves fully a yard in widt
and trimmed with bright Colored band
ings were for convenience turned bp
aijd "pinned on the shoulder so that the
entire arm was disclosed to view. Tl
coiffure was high and not unsightly, but
for the excessive amount of pomade
which make it look more like heavy black
fabric than human hair. Before we had
taken In these few items of general ap
pearance the group had grown to & crowd
A ferry boat was running between
village, and the hamlets on our side o'
the stream and with every trip brought
a load of recruits, mostly women, all
bent on seeing the strange sight of two
foreign women. What an opportunltt
for evangelistic work! We had in the
boat a Sunday school scroll of the life
of Christ and we thought of the Joy
would be to give them the first know1
edge of that life lived and laid down
for them. But that joy was not to
ours for they could not understand a
word of either the Foochow or MandarUh
dialects. One of the men with us spoke
Amoy, perhaps he could interpret, but
that too failed, so "we could only smil'
at them and try to make them feel that
we were glad to have them near us. They
showed no signs of- dipserslng and we
realized that they wished to see us eat
our supper. We sat in the prow of the
boat and spread our repast with especial
care, letting them see exaotly how bar­
P_
MRS. CHAS. ANDERSON DEAD.
Died at Family Residence in Deniaon
on Friday, October 13th—Leaves
Husband and Three Children
Mrs. Chas. Anderson departed this
life at the family residence in Denison
on Friday, October 13th. She had suf
fered much the past year, but the tired
and suffering body has found rest in
death.
Helen Pearson was born in Sweden
Oct. 1, 1888. She came to America in
1903, coming directly to Denison, ar
riving here December 3d of the same
year. She was unitod in marriage to
Mr. Charles Anderson on Dec. 11, 1906.
The union was blessed with three chil
dren, namely: Johnnie-, Dorothy and
Evelyn, who with the husband and her
patents are left to mourn her death.
Funeral services were held Sunday
afternoon at 2 o'clock at the residence
Rev. J. L. Boyd, pastors of the Metho
dist Episcopal church, officiating. The
funeral was largely attended. Music
was furnished by a quartet composed
of Mr. and Mrs. B. J. Sibber and Mr.
and Mrs. W. C. VanNess.
The Denison Woman's Relief Corps
are making great preparations to en
tertain the convention of the Fifth dis
trict of their organization on Friday
October 20th.
They expect over 100 delegates of
Ida, Monona, Shelby and Woodbury
counties.
The convention, through the cour
tesy of the Masons, will meet in Mc
Kim hall and hold an all-day session,
beginning at 9:30 a. m., and lasting un
til late in the evening. The morning
and evening sessions are open to all
Special programs are arranged for
these occasions.
Friday, October 20th, also happens
to be Iowa day, and with this conven
tion in town the people of Denison may
feel that they have something very
special indeed for that day.
We understand that the business
men and others plan decorations which
will show their civic pride as well as
compliment the W. R. C. convention
and pay a tribute of respect to the vet
erans of the G. A. R.
JUDGE GEORGE GRAY.
Delaware Man Named as Con
feree In Mexican Dispute.
barians manage their savage looking
knives and forks, remembering the words
of another missionary who said "For w
are made a spectacle unto the world,
both to angels and men.' We could not
restrain the tears as we thought of
need and our Inability to meet it We
said "If only we could get hold of a girl
from this place and train her. She
would know the native dialect and she
could come back and save her own peo
ple." That is the purpose of the Gmma
Fuller Memorial school and that Is why
you are interested in it
But at last we are at Yung An. This
is the home of six of our boarding school
girls. A medical mission has been main
tained here for ten years by Dr. and Mrs.
Williams of our general board, and these
six girls are some of the first fruits of
their work. Mrs. Williams had not seen
a white woman for sixteen months, so
you can Imagine something of what the
visit meant to her. She was just re
covering from an attack of nervous ex
haustion brought on by tho anxiety and
care of their two children, through a
long illness in which both precious lives
had been despaired of. No -word of
complaint fell from the lips of these
brave pioneers, only joyous rehearsal of
the slow but steady progress of the king
dom in that region. Just once this sen
tence fell when we were discussing the
children, "These little folks are making
some big sacrifices that we may have
the privilege of working here."
"There Is a place six miles from here
where1 we are first beginning," Mrs.
Williams was saying, "where the people
have never seen a christian woman.
Would you go there and spend the day
with me?" The seed that took root in
that place was dropped In the heart of
a man who had received treatment in the
hospital. He began to attend church,
bringing with him some of his fellow
villagers. When their number had
reached twenty and they began to real
ize that their persence was a serious em
barrassment to the already crowded
chapel at Yung An, they said "There is
no room%for us here. We will rent a
room in our own village, if you will
send some one out there to hold services
for us.' Who could go? It was time
for the boys day school at Yung An to
have Its China New Year holiday and
Dr. Williams said to the teacher "Will
you spend your vacation at T7ong-lik
and hold services for them?" The reply
was "Yes," and at the end of that
month's "vacation" sixty families hnd
I
Pleaaa mention The Re
view whan answering
"Claaalfled Ada." Thla
eourteay will be appre
elated.
No. 42
DENISON LOSES
TO
mji.
Deniaon High School Football Team
Went Down Ro Defeat at Harlan
Last' Saturday.
AND THE SCORE WAS 12 TO 8
Deniaon Pulled Off Several "Boners"
Enabling Harlan to Put Crimp
to Champlonahlp Aspirations
The Denison football team were de
feated on the Harlan gridiron Satur
day afternoon by the high school elev
en of that place by a score of 12 to 6.
From all reports it should have
been Denison's game but for the faot
that the Denison team pulled off sever
al bonehead plays. Denison outplayed
the other team at every stage of the
game but for the fumbling of the ball.
At the end of the first half the score
stood 6 to 0 in favor of our boys. Dur
ing this quarter Lo,cke made a 50 yard
end run for a touchdown through an
open field. During the third quarter
Harlan made a touchdown, but-failed
to kick goal, tieing the score. In the
last quarter with but two minutes to
play a' Harlan player intercepted a for
ward pass by Denison on Harlan's five
yard line and dashed down the field
for a touchdown, winning the game.'
Denison was particularly strong on
defensive work, but was unusually
weak on offensive, making the game a
slow one.
Next Saturday the local team will
play Coon Rapids at Coon Rapids and'
on the following Saturday play Coun
cil Bluffs on the local gridiron.
The lineup last Saturday was as fol
lows: Flinn, right end Helaley. right
tackle Cavett. right guard, Broder
sen, G., center Laub, left guard.
Strahan, left tackle Wearmouth, left
end O'Connor, quarter Lally, left
half Lehfeldt, fullback Locke, ri$ht
half. Substitutes: Gary lor Lally and
McCord for Gary.
The Decrease in Death Rate.
Recently announced figures front the
1915 census show a big fall In death
rate. For the whole country these fig
ures show 13.5 per thousand. Fifteen
years ago the rate .was 1|.2. The
American people are growing healthier.
Better knowledge of sanitation, bel
ter physical development, advance df
mcdical science, account for this
change. There are a great many peo
ple who instead of doting themselves
with drags as formerly, get'out and
exercise. More.people wprk and lleep
^vTfh inetr -windows Mi
less htorror of 'freslt air. -r r--
No dbubt the present rate can,.: be
still further lowered. It la up to ev
eryone to co-operate with physician*
and boards of health in remoVihg all
known causes of disease. Prematura
death Is one of the great causes of
poverty. Every tjne a wage earner la
taken away before his time some one
is thrown on charity.
There are a great many people who
have conscientious scruples against
voting for a losing ticket
It is positively announced that the
guardsmen will be recalled from the
Mexican border on November 31st.
There seems a generat consensus
of opinion among the doctors that in
fant paralysis is due to the gorushe
bustic condition of the amplflexum.
Feeling that there is
'"in
a
possible
chance to get across the railroad track
alive, the motorist cheerfully speeds
on in front of the swiftly moving
train.
destroyed their idols and began as best
they knew to worship the living God.
The women of the place sooii began to
say "Is this only a map's doctrine? Have
we no share in it?" The purpose of. that
viidt was to show them how large a
share they .have in it. Overy sixty wom
en listened with pathetic eagerness aa
we told them the story of Jesus and Hts
love, and again we longed for the day
when one of our Emma Fuller Memorial,
girls shall be ready to open a school .In
this place.
Fourteen more miles in sedan chair,
over a rolling thickly wooded' country,
brought me at night fall to Sa long, oUr
very outpost. The pastor and his wife
are old. friends from Haitang, the loved
field where it was my privilege to labor
for eleven years. They were appointed
here last conference time sad already
Sa long has a day school of twelve girls.
How we visited and how many (things
Song lng had to tell me of her life
In that strange new place where 'the
church has been planted in a veritable
hotbed of outlaws, who veem to have':a
sort of rough respect for it, which: very
regard has its dangerous^ aide, since If
at all'encouraged lt'mlght lead the gov*
eminent troops wh'd Were Just thenar*
riving, to think that''the ohuroh waa in
collusion with- 'the criminals. A"bait!e.i
between the soldiers 'and the-'hrlsands-r
was hourly expAeted during my twordays'f
stay there and when we'parted) *lnt-tbaq
early morning after a seawn'ofiprayeriit .^
was not without a sense of grave.nuitual
concern. How thankful we are that the
banner is floating out in such a place
as this, and the one who is bearing it to
the women here was trained in a school
like this in which your girl la receiving
her education
The trip of five days going up Is
shortened to two coming down, and our
itinerary in the Yung An region complet
ed it was not long before we were back
in the beautiful W. F. M. 3. compound at
Yenping, receiving the greetings of our
seventy girls, more thankful than ever
that God has given them to us for a
time, that we may. after a few years,
give them back to Him, through His
grace vessels sanctified and maet for the
Masters use, through which His life mar
flow unhindered to the thirsting ones in
this beautiful, needy region.
Yours for the Master,
Mamie F. Glaasburner.
1
•fiStf
