IZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MOKNINC1, OCTOBER 18, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 152
OPY ATHEN
THE A
R
ENTENTE
NFS
AND
PIEAUS
Will, TRANSYLVANIA AND
GALIC1A STILL PITS BE
HEAVIEST El GHTING GOES I
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
With the occupation of Athens and Pireaus by marines from the war
ships of the entente powers, a tense situation has arisen in Athens. Great
crowds of royalists have paraded the streets of the Greek capital cheering
the king, and cordons of Greek troops and marines have been thrown
about the railway stations, city hall, a nd other points occupied by the en
tente forces to prevent clashes between them and the royalists. An unof
ficial dispatch says Admiral Du Four net was hissed by the throngs in the
streets of Athens and that a detach ment of French sailors was driven back
by the hostile crowd.
King Constantino, in a speech to the officers of his fleet, told them he
would stand by them, no matter what consequences might follow their
loyalty to Greece.
Volhynia, Galicia and Transylvania are still the points where the heaviest
fighting is taking place. Along the Somme in France, bombardments alone
have prevailed, except to the east of B elloy-en-Santerre, where the Germans
threw two vain attacks against the F rench.
In Macedonia the hostilities have been confined mainly to patrol engage
ments and artillery duels. Throughout the Aurtro-Italian theater, little
fighting of moment has taken place.
The Austro-Germans, according to both Berlin and Vienna, have taken
trenches over a front of one and a qu arter miles from the Russians and
mioe prisoner thirty officers and 1,900 men. West of Lutsk, in Volhynia,
the Russians attacked violently many t imes, but according to Vienna, were
everywhere repulsed with great losses. In the southern Carpathians, near
Dorna Watra additional heights have been taken from the Russians by the
Teutonic allies.
In Transylvania the Rumanians continue to hold back the Austro
Germans almost everywhere. In the Uul valley they have driven the invad
ers back across the Rumanian border.
No official representations will be made for the present to the United
States by Great Britain concerning the submarine U-53 entering an Amer
ican port and the subsequent sinking of steamers off the American coast
by the German underwater boat.
Marines at Piracns
ATHKVS. int. K,. (Via London. Oct.
TT. i-Murines from the ships of the
niente powers to the number of
.il""it a thousand have been landed
Piraeus ind have occupied the rail
way t;'tiin at Piraeus am! .several
'.'.ildings in Athens. Immediately tnis
became known the streets of Athens
swai:red with Greeks frantically
heeririg Kin? Constantine and chant
ing the Creek national anthem. Great
tovms man lied through the streets,
thousands gathering in th" neighbor
h''d of the postoffire square.
e war minister. Generai Dracos.
rlenil out Greek troops and marines
t'i K'uird every approach to the
' .w and in ordi r to prevent any
' laju r:ck rivUiun and .h-,
I rene h. hn occupied ti.at section,
tablishi:ig a complete cordon about
th- French and taking all precautions
t.. iveid any incident or accident rap
a'l'e of starting strife.
It is impossible to predict whether
tionble i an he prevented throughout
tb- niHht. The Greek geA'errment is
fully alive to the fact that Greece's
!ate bangs on the prevention of fur-trie-
measure on the I art of th?
l"r iw h commander.
Karlie-r in the day a review by Kin;;
Constantine of the sailors belonging
ld
v h
vessels of the Grtvk navy,
1 1. wi io tak'n iiossession hf bv l!v
enP nte allies, was made the occasion
f"r an immense royalist dt'monstra
tion crowds parading the streets
h.aiHing life-si7.e portraits of the sov-
re'irn ami wildly cheering for the
Admiral I amianos, minister of mi
Tin read ;in order of the day prals-1
om yaity or ine sailors and com.
.Iim-nting them on their conduct un
der most trying circumstances.
After the rerenvmy the king .13
Kcmbled ij,,. officers !out h.im and
nidrrsi-ed rhtn personally, expressing
pride that they had scorned offers of
money and honors, and had remained
faith;'. 1 to their oath to their country.
M" cave his word that he would stand
hv thm
o the end regardless of
whit their loyalty might entail
The king issued the following order
of the day:
"officers, sailors: In these hours,
wh-n stri'ken and with bleeding
he.irts, each new moment forms new
uot'wls deep in our souls, which so
Seven Are Burned to Death
In Gotham Factory Blaze
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Oct. 17. Seven
persons were burned to death and
two others who are missing, are
feared to have lost their lives in
a fire which destroyed two fac
tories in the manufacturing sec
tion of Queens Borough, late to
day with a nvaterial loss esti
mated at $23O,C0O.
- The chat ree1 bodies were not found
until the flames had been ex
tinguished and firemen were
oourinq, water into the ruins of
th buildings. Search is being
made tonight for two persons still
missirq, but it is believed they
perished. All those burned were
employed in the plant of the Oakes
Oy Manufacturing company,
where the flames started. The
known dead:
Harry C. Cook, 42 years old, mar
ried, treasurer of the Oakes company.
Frederick Cristman, 35 years old,
married, head bookkeeper of the com-
any.
Robert Vopel, 3i years old, marrlevl,
ass'slant bookkeeper.
Miss Emily Kiensel, 22 years old,
l.ek keeper.
Miss Daughemann, 20 years old.
li.okk-eprr.
Mis E. Faurmann, 20 years old,
st-nographer.
Miss ' Gears, 20 years old, sten
ographer. Tiie fire started nmonif chemicals
'n the first floor of the (lakes build
ing end sinend with such rapidity
'hit the office force was trapped on
th- second floor.
In addition to the office buildinrr,
five one-.-ory toraae buildings of the
0;.kes (ompany were destroy d. rnn
Hi.se buildii gs the fire spread to the
Astoria Veneer Mill nml lumber yards
short a time ago were proud m a
united and victorious Greece, my gov
ernment has been obliged to order
vou to leave the ships upon which
you brought the news of the freein;;
of our liberated brothers. You come
with tortured hearts and eyes wet
wita tears, every man faithful to his
oath, to the side of your Kin
"I thank vou and congratulate you.
oh. mv faithful sailors. I than!;, you,
not only as king and chief if thej
fl-et, but as the representative of the j
fatherland you love so much to whicai
you have given so much, for which!
you are ready to give aim saner an.
"May our hopes soon be realized and
may the hour soon come when you will
be able to return to your shipt.
The holv ikons that have protected
von in the past will protect you in the U
future, and the glorious flag, once more ; Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
caught by the winds of the Greek seas, j EL l'ASO, Oct. 17. Y'agui Indians,
will bring hope and consolation w b,e r- the terrors of the state of Sonora, are
ever Greek hearts beat for nation and i to be sent against Villa and his bandits
king." ! in western Chihuahua, a report from
The British legation' explains that i Sonora brought here today stated. The
the landing of marines at Athens and i Yaquls are being recruited from among
I'ireause was merely intended to rein- i General Ohregon's veterans of the con
force the police. It is generally st nationalist campaign and it is ex-
thought, however, that this action was
taken to prevent demonstrations like
those of this morning'-.! Monday).
Situation Is Dangerous
LONlioN, Oct 17. A Jie'uter's dis
patch from Athens says: i.
"The situation appears to be danger
ous. There have been royalist demon
strations in the streets.' -Admiral lu
Fournet, commander of the entente
allied fleet in the Mediterranean, was
hissed and a detachment of French
soldiers was driven by a' hostile com
mand.
A procession of some 4,000 malcon
tents, headed by the Greek and
American flags, stopped outside the
American legation, protested against i
me landing ot foreign marines, and de
manded the protection of the American
minister, who was absent.
"The demonstrators then paraded the
streets, singing the Greek -national
anthem.
On the Rumanian side of the Gyimes
pass, which leads from northeastern
Transylvania into northern Rumania
and is traversed by the railway, the
Germans have reached Agas ten miles
within the Rumanian frontier.
v hero many thousands of feet of
lumber was destroyed.
The police have learned that an
electrician at work on the first flo-jr
of the dye-making plant, making
repairs to the electric light fixtures,
dropjed a ladder which struck a Jar
of chemicals that burst into flames.
There were six young women and
three men on the second floor when
ine me riegan. .Not one of them has
been seen since A stedtairway led
Bay Cities Greet Hughes
Women Speakers Cordially
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 17. The Hughes women's special train of cam-
i painners, was met with cordiality in
even the demonstration of women Wilson supporters following the arrival
here of the eastern party was good natured. A big delegation of women
republicans of the city greeted the v isitors and an official welcome was ex
tended by a representative of Mayor James Rolph.
Virtually every member of the party spoke tonight to an audience that
crowded the Scottish Rite Auditorium.
Students Hear Women
OAKLAND, Oct. 17 Liahthearted University of Cal ifornia student and
the more serious minded workers at a cotton mill listened today to the
addresses by members of the Hughes women's special transcontinental cam
paign party in a series of hurried meetinge in Oakland and suburbs. Dr.
Katharine B. Davis, of New York, addressed the university students just
outside the campus gate.
"If we believed this campaign was a game," she said, "we would not be
in it. We are in it for a cause for our cause."
Miss Mary Antin, authoress, spoke to the cotton mill employes in Ala
meda, while Miss Elizabeth Freeman, also of the party, addressed a meeting
in a negro church. ,
Hecklers Put to Rout By Nominee
? J& j?
BRITAIN AWAITS AMERICAN DECLARATION
THE ARIZONA IS NOW
IN COMMISSION
NEW YORK, Oct. 17. The su
perdreadnaught Arizona, one of
the most powerful Hhips in the
United States navy, was put in
commission at the navy yard here
today under command of Captain
John L. McDonald. The vessel is
manned by 67 marines and 900
sailors, said to be considerably
short of her full complement. The
men were assembled from various i
ships. The Arizona, a Bister ship I
to the Pennsy lvar.ia, was con
structed at tiie New York navy
yard. She has a displacement of
1 3-,5t7 tons, is 60S feet long, and
I designed for a cruising speed of 21 j
j knots. She has twelve 14-inch j
I guns and a secondary battery of j
twenty 5-inch guns and also car- ;
I ries two anti-aircraft guns. 1
TOBESENT
AC1STVILLA
I ATLANTIC CITY. Oct. 17. The j
Mexican-American joint commis- j
j sion held only one session today,
the members admitting at Its close j
that no material progress had been
I made. The Mexican members reit-
i crated confidence, that the cam- j
j paign being started against Villa ;
j would be a success and serve to j
demonstrate Mexico's ability to ;
i restore and maintain peace along: I
h ttnTfrontier. "
pected that one thousand or more In
dians will be sent through the pass in
the Sahuaripi district into western
Chihuahua. ,
Moves to San Isidro
rfllHl'AIIl'A CITY, Oct. 17. The
latest reports received at military
headquarters here says that Villa has
moved his personal headquarters to
San Isidro, a point on the Mexico
Northwestern railway about SO miles
west of Chihuahua City and nearly
twice that distance south f the main
American base at Casas Grandes.
The vanguard of the troops of Gen
eral Santos, composed of fi'10 men and
J00 horses, hav arrived here and the
remainder of the command is on its
way. They will take part in the com
ing campaign against Villa.
Communication with Cusihuiriuchic
is now open.
General Trevino is completely re
covered from his wound, received dur
ing Villa's attack on Chihuahua.
Martial Law Rolaxed
KL TASO, Oct. 17. Martial law has
(Continued on Page Two;
from the upper floor to the first floor
on the Inside of the building. There
also were two iron fire escape's and
one slecl stairway escape on the out
side.
A half dozen windows were located
clos- to where the young women were
Pt work and it would have been a
oroi of only 15 feet to the street. The
authorities believe the employes were
suffocated by chemical fumes an 1
I w ere unable to attempt csca
al I of the trans-bay cities today, and
YAQU1 IIS
T
FIHST MUD TO
Oil.
DECLARES GREY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I-oNDox. nd. 17 Ti e British gov
ernment w ill not make any official
representations to the United State.i
concerning the German submarine
U-"3 lending an announcement of its
attitude by tiie American government,
said Viscount Grey in the bouse ol
lords, today
In reply to a question concerning
the attitude of the United Slates to
wird Hiitish patrols. Viscount Grev
said that the United States admitted
the Uritish ships were not exceeding
their legal rights under international
law. but that the American govern
ment complained of their presence on
the ground of the irritation which the
continued presence of belligeient war
shins ft the coast of the United
States naturally caused In a neutra1
country. He declared that the United
Sta'es had requested Great i'ritain
very emphatically not to liatrol off its
coust and said instructions were sent
to the Kritish ships there to avoid
causing anv irritation and to comply
us far fis possible, with the Ameri
can request.
"W ith regard to the U-f,3." the for
eign secretary continued, "we do not
know what steps were taken by the
United Stati for patrolling its wa
ters or in leg.ird to her coming In I
port and fee airing information from
newspapers. We elo not kneiw whethT
it is true ttiat American w.an-hios got
nut of the submarine-'s way. Tnat is
a matter for the Amerieerk govern
ment onlv. anil we assume liat g-o -ercment
is making full inquiries. We
aisei assume it will announce Its at
titude in due coui.se. Tending that.
we do not preipose to make any offi
cial representation on tlje subject eif
lire submarine."
'The 'luestion concerning the Ger
man submarine raid in American wi
t'rs' was r'se'd by itai'ui Charles
I'ere-sford. former commando; eif the
Uriri-h heimo fleet: Karl Grcv. former
governor general of Canada, and evlh
eis. Harem fieresford asked whether
l'riti'h cruisers were removeii from
American waters owing to American
ohje-tiens. and if se, what steps tho
government propose-d for the protec
tion of British vessels. He criticised
the submarine reply as r.t least curt,
an-1 said the American ideas of ne;u
trallly we're turieuis.
Kt'll Grey wantrd an as'-'.tr.inoe that
tho report was untrue that American
eeimmanders on detrejyers had ac
e e eied to the request eif th"- German
commander to clear out of the way
and gave Um room to blow up ship.-c
The feireitrn secretary saiel in reply
to Lord Be"-esford's question:
The iiest thing I ean elo Is to rea l
a sunimarv of what actually passed
between the- United States government
nnel his majesty's government on th::-
suhfe-i't since the war began ami wha'
we understand the view of the Unite!
Sates te be."
Viscrunt Grey then read th? follow ing
statement:
"i ir. the feinrtcenth of September
1914, the British ambassador at Wash,
ington telegraphed that the United
S'fites auUieirities had intercept-1'.
wireless dlsuatches from II. M. S
Suffolk to New York asking for sup
plies and newspapers, anel he In
formed us that the United Slates gov
ernment e-onsidered that this would
be making use of United Stales terri
tory ns a base for supplies anel infor
mation as to shipping movements
through the newspapers.
"The proceeding was, as far as I nm
aware, neit repeatcel and no official
protest was received, so far lis I have
bee n able to discover in the foreign
office.
"On the fifth of October, 1914, we
had a private c ommunication re
spee tinir the presenile of British ship
nenr New York harbor. We had an
unoffieial communication latT on de
precating the same thing and saying
that in the past such hecerlng of
feiredgn vesseds ir. the vicinity of the
great ports of the United States had
forced that government, owing to the
public feeling aroused, to take a verv
(Continued on Paste Two)
May Reduce the
Reservation of
Papago Indians
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TUCSON, Oct. 1" A tentative agree
ment between government officials anil
loral citizens was reached last night
through which the Papago Indian res
ervatioti may be reduced over 2,000,000
acres. The action, if taken, will open
up a rich mining section to a develop
ment now withheld because of govern
ment restrictions, it is declared.
Frank Thackery, who represented the
rrrdians at the hearing, declined to
make public the report of an inves
tigation for the department of the in
terior but it is understood here the re
port favors the reduction.
the reservation, which comprises
3,215,000 acres, is the home of 5,600
Indians.
Limited Government
Control of Western
Irrigation Projects
Republican A.
KL l'ASO, Oct.
P. Leased Wire
17. Judge Will R.
King, chief counsel for the United
States reclamation service, presented a
new plan for limited government con
tre.d of -rrigation projects in the west
late today to the International Irriga
tion Congress.
Speaking as a delegate from Oregon,
and not as an official of the reclama
tion service, Judge King urged his plan
to have the government approve of the
engineering soundness of a preposed
project,, guarantee the bonds which
would be issued by the irrigation dis
trict and then have the water users
composing the district organization
consent to government control of the
project until a majority of the cost ot
the project had been collected. The
projee-t ceiuld then be turned over to the
district organization, he raid. This,
Judge King stated, would permit each
district to build its own district without
funds being advanced by the United
States, the government acting ii: a
protective caiuicity only.
Ir. W. M. Jardine. dean of the agri
cultural department jf the Kansas
Agricultural College, made a plea for
retaining the farmer boys and young
men on the farms. Ie recommended
that farm values be fixed on a pro
ductive and not speculative basis and
said a credit system based upon char
acter should be established, as the
present credit institutie.ns, including the I
AREEUKS
(Special to The Reoublican)
NKW YORK. (let. 17. The progres
sives of the country are supporting
Hughes and not Wilson, for the presi
dency, because they are for the ac
complishment, not fine phrases. So
says George W. Perkins, chairman of
the executive committee of the pro
gressive National committee, and close
friend of CoU Roosevelt, in an open
letter to President Willcox. made pub
lic here tonight. "When the good
name and welfare of a people are at
stake." wrote Mr. Perkins, "everything
else must be put aside."
The letter in full follows:
"The morning paers again record
the pouring out at Shadow Lawn yes
terday of abuse of those of us who for
several reasons have seen fighting for
real, not make believe progress in this
country.
"The a uiacity of some of the state
ments made yesterday is past belief.
Those of us who have been fighting
in this progressive movement for sev
eral years cannot be satisfied with
beautifully rounded phrases, or with
the passage of a new law every fif
teen minutes, which is sif wordeel that
it becomes impotent fifteen minutes af
ter it is passed. The Wilson laws.
from beginning to end. are largely
patterned after your famous -"Seven
Sisters'' laws in New Jersey, which you
passed under the whip one day. At that
time you assureel the people that those
laws were the cure-all for the trust
problem but you know that and every
other man in the country at all fa
miliar with the situation knows, that
those laws have not changed the cor
poration question one iota. These laws
have not been worth the paper they
were written on and the same is the
case with most of the laws with high
sounding titles passed during your
presidential term. For instance, you
have referred often to your great ac
complishments in passing the layton
bill anel to the numerous benel its the
country has received therefrom; yet
Senator Reed, of Missouri, ene of your
staunch supporters and a elemocratic
member of half a dozen or more sen
ntnrial committees, in speaking of this
bill as it was about to be passed, said
(Continued on Tage Two)
P SUES
SI II IT SI. II
Politicians Recommend
Restoration of Licenses
Republican A.
CHICAGO. Oct.
P. Leased Wire
17. Mayor Thomp
son testified today that he was guided
largely by the recommendations of
Chief of Police Healey. in revoking and
in restoring saloon licenses.
Restorations, however, he said, were
usually backed up by the pleas of
"reputable citizens, influential business
men and even ministers."
This testimony formed the basis of
a lot eif sarcasm on the part of Henry
Herger, the assistant states attorney.
Mr. Herger produced records from the
offices of the mayor and the chief of
police bearing on restorations. Many
of the applications bore the endorse
ment of Alderman le Priest and Al
derman Lawley.
Hughes at
& j&
land bank, were inadequate. He closed
with an appeal for legislation permit
ting the government to buy more lands
and sell them to the young men.
H. M. Colvin, of Tucson, Ariz., speike
late today on "iJefinition and Develop
ment eif Rural Credits."
The following committees were ap
pointed :
Committee on Credentials: Arizona,
I.. C. Snow; California, Miss T. R.
Alex; Colorado, W. A. Smith; Ne
braska, George K. Johnson; Texas, A.
C. Low; Utah, Frank R. Snow; Wash
ington, L. M. Rie-e; Alberta, Canada,
R. J. C. Stead; Idaho, Jay Turley: New
Mexico, Gus Wise; Oregon, C. H.
Bunting.
Committee on Permanent Organiza
tion: Texas, J. A. Happer (chairman),
Arizona, C. W. Allen; California. Dr.
G. W. Dw innell; Colorado, Kurt Grum
wald; Nebraska, George E. Johnson;
Texas. A. C. Wilmoth: I'tah. Richard
R. Lyman: Washington, W. W. Burr;
Alberta, Canada. Sam G. Porter; Idaho,
.1. M. Welch; New Mexico, A. J. Mc
Donald; Oregon, IA M. Cupper.
Committee on Reseilutions: Arizona,
Mulford Winsor; California, James F.
Fanaher: Colorado, Lee Reynolds; Ne
braska. George K. Johnson; Texas. J.
A. Smith; Utah, J. R. Murdiwk; Wash
ington. Carroll B. Graves: Alberta. A.
S. Dawson; Idaho, W. O. Cotton; New
Mexico, A. G. Pollock; Oregon, H. C.
Holgate.
FDR PRESIDENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. LOUIS. Oct. 17. The house of
deputies of the general convention of.
the Protestant Episcopal chnrch. vot
ed to eliminate the special pravers
for the presieicnt of the United States
from the morning and evening prayer
service and to substitute for them a
prayer for the safe'ty and perservation
of the nation. The same prayer wilt
will be used in beith services.
As it is now in the prayer book.
the meirning prayer asks for the presi
dent, the boon "in health and pro
sperity long to live," and that he
finalh may "attain everlasting joy
and reinity. 1 he new prayer as
adopted for both services, while asking
that the president "and all others in
authority" be given, "the wisdom and
strength to know and to do thy will."
makes nei reference to long life, health.
prosperity or eternal felicity.
The house also voted, despite vigor
ous protests, to omit the words "the
governor of this state from the -evening
prayer, it being argued that "all
others in authority" included the gov
ernors.
The change, which was adopted at
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONG PKANCH, N. J., Oct.. 17.
President Wilson will leave here to
morrow morning for Chicago w here he
is to speak three times Thursday. En
route to and from Chicago his train
will make a number of brief stops in
Now York. Indiana, Ohio and I'onn
Fylv.mia. While Mr. Wilson has re
fused several invitations to make
speeches, lie will nppear on the obser
vation platform of his private car to
shake hands with people who as
semble to greet him. anel perhaps say
a few wrrds to them.
He read a number on which the only
recommendations came from politicians.
The hearing was in the municipal
court on the application of State's At
torney Henry Moyne for warrants for
the arrest of Chief Healey and Wil
liam Lutharelt, his secretary.
Samuel P. Thrasher, superintendent
of the committee of fifteen, a voluntary
organization formed to prevent traffic
in weimen and assist in enforcement of
law. testified at the afterneion session.
He said:
"I have specific evidence which I
have submitted to the state's attorney
to show that policemen are collecting
tribute from houses of Ill-fame. I don't
want to be ipiestiemed -along that line,
however, until the state's attorney has
finished work on my report.-'
EPISCOPALIANS
CUTflUTPRAYER
WILSON TO SPEAK OB HYPHENATE
ISSUE IF PRESENT CIPU
Sioux City
, H
!IEIE 1
fiu lit rtAUfw
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SIOUX CITY, Iowa, Oct. 17 Ciiarlet
H. Hughes, facing a friendly audiences
sprinkled with hecklers, tonight re
plied in answer to a question as to
whether he would repeal the Adam
son law- if elected president that ":i
surrender could not be repealed."
Mr. Hughes was asked whit ho
would have done to avert the threat
ened railroad strike.
"If arbitration had been refused."
Mr. Hughes replied, "I shoijd have,
gone right to the American people,
stated the fact,s and put the respon
sibility where it belongs."
"I should at the same time," Mr.
Hughes continued, "have secured a,
comrrission of inquiry so impartial,
so fair as to commanei the respect of
the entire country and directing pub
lic opinion to that end that there- in
no group of men in the'-United States
that would have dare.l hold up th-
instrumentalities of commerce if that;
ivp-p done."
The heckler still had another qucs
tion to ask.
"Mr. Hughes." he said, "any epics
tion that is asked here is asked with
no enmity toward the candidate of de
republican party. You would hava
done till that' within twenty-four
hours ?"
"Why, sir," the neiminee leiuied,
"the businessmen ef the United State
through the chamber of commerce of
the United Stctes on July 2. sent a
telegram to the president asking for
an inquiry. A reseilutinn was intro
duced in the senate for an inquiry,
and was laid on the table. For motitiM
the business men of the United St;i;es
asked for an inquiry as to this very
matter, and the crisis -.vas allowed to
he developed, when it was unneces
sary that it should have Wn 'i"
eloptd and there was adequate ttr.io
to ascertain what the fans were."
The heckling was attended by
utmost confusion. The miflience wni- H
had cheered and applauded ieiudly in
the earlier parts of the speech ap
parently was incensed at the inter
ruptions and there were many cri--s
of "put him out," "sit down," and
"shut up."
As the nominee replied to each,
epiestion the audience cheereei its ep
proval. It was necessary afier each
interruption feir Mr. Hughes to step
forward and request that the hcekl-f
be allowed to proceed.
In the first part of his speech. Mr.
Hughes also was heckled.
Mr. Hughes, cited his rfcord as !ii
insurance investigator and as gov
ernor of New- York in answer to tve
declaration that his elee-tion mis lit
mean the setting up eif "invisible
government" in the United States.
A mart with a big stie-k in the g.-J-lery
sought to heckle the nominee on
lahor affairs. He asked a onestion
that apparently was misunderstood in
the confusion and Mr. Hughe's, ami.i
a roar of applause rend what t!i
Legislative News, the official organ
of organized labor, had to say i;
praise of his record as governor.
When the applause e'.ied, the man
arose again. The trowel would hav
put him out r.nd for more than a.
minute the audience wan a tumuli
confusion.
Mr. Hughes. with outtretche-'-l
hands, sought to quiet the crowd. Ho
finally made himself ,ieard.
"Let the gentleman ask any ques.
tion he wants to." t lie nominee sail.
(Continued on Poge Tno)
While arrangements for the presi
dent's visit to Chicago inclmle no ap
pearance hefore strictly partisan or
ganizations, his campaign managers
are counting on the trip to have a
marked political effect. They include.
Illinois, Iiwliuna and Ohio in tho
doubtful states and wish the president,
to meet as many persons a3 possible
on tomorrow's trip.
Leaving here at 11 o'clock iornonou
morning, the president will travel t
New York in a regular Pullman. He
will leave there on a snecial car at 1
p. m. going to Chicago by way 'f
Albany and Rochester.
Thursday he will make the following
stops: Goshen, Ind., 8:47 a. m : F.lk
hart. 9:05 a. m.. and South Bend. '.):?A,
arriving at Chicago at 11:7,0 n. m.
Several other stops may bo added.
The president will remain in Chicago
until 11:45 o'clock Thursday nigh'.
At 1 p. m. he will lunch at the Chi
cago Press club anil afterward will
address a non-partisan woman's
meeting at the Auditorium, diniurr
privately afterward. At S o'clock in
the evening he will deliver the main
address of his trip hefore the third
annual New citizens" Alliance meet
ing. This address is expected to have
an important bearing on the hyphen
ate issue of the campaign.
The president will return to T.onr
Branch Friday by way of Alliaiw-e.
Pittsburg, Altoona, Huntington. I.e.idi
Junction and Harrisburg. . Mrs. Wil
son. Secretary Tumulty and Dr. Cary
T. Grayson, the White House physi
cian, will accompany him on the trip.
President Wilson spent mot of to
day working. on offiei.il business- hi
preparation for a visit to Chi capo, liei
will speak here Saturd ly at a cele
bration of "Farmers' Day."
