f' If IB m
Comimrce Chamber, Municipal League, Ro
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
T VVYV XT,, OA} BV ( AHIIIKUS || CENTS \ WEEK
l-AAA V I\IO. SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS'.
,20,000 PAMPHLETS
WILL TELL VOTERS
OF SCHOOL NEEDS
Campaign For Proposed $1,250,000 Loan Will Be Offi
cially Started at Meeting of Board Friday; Com
merce Chamber, Rotary Club, Civic Club and Students
Will Help Boost For Building Much Needed
PAGEANT OF CENTRAL AND
TECH PUPILS SATURDAY, NOV. 4
Captain Stine, U. S. Recruiting Officer, Will Be in Charge;
Quick Action Necessary to Get Results; Will Not
Mean Heavy Tax Burden, Points Out Dr. Yates
Harrisburg's campaign for the proposed $1,250,000 new high
school loan will be actually started at the meeting Friday when the
School Board opens bids for furnishing the 20,000 explanatory and
educational pamphlets for distribution among the people of the city.
The leaflets will bd prepared by J. Horace McFarland, chairman
of the Chamber of Commerce high school committee and will be
modeled largely on the lines of similar pamphlets that were dis
tributed during the city's improvement loan crusade.
'Plain truths about the high school
problem." or a similar slogan will be
adopted by Mr. MeParland who will
have charge of the publicity cam
paign.
The Chamber of Commerce, the Ro
tary Club, the Civic club and the stu
dents of the high schools themselves
will help boost for the passage of the
loan.
I*upi Is to Parade
A feature of the high school stu
dents' participation will be the pa
geant of Central and Technical pupils
arranged for Saturday afternoon, No
\ ember 4. Captain H. M. Stine. Uncle
Sam's recruiting officer in Capitol
park, will be in charge of the parad
its. Two bands will furnish the music
and after the parade the students will
go to the island where a. football game
will be in order.
Election day, November 7, is only
three weeks away and interested citi
zens believe quick action is necessary
if the loan problem is to be put prop
erly before the people and to this end
the Chamber of Commerce commit
tee is bending its efforts.
Need For (Juick Action
Present plans of the school board
provide that the new girls' high school
together with the converted Technical
high school be turned into a boys' in
stitution, by not later than 1919 —if
the proposed loan measure goes
through.
If the people of the city decide to
borrow the million and a quarter to
relieve the city's high school problem,
then plans lor immediate relief will
be mapped out by erecting the pro
posed junior high school on Allison's
Hill and for the remodeling of the
Camp Curtin building for the same
purpose. As soon as these structures
are ready to accommodate the junior
high r.chool pupils the Central and
Technical high schools will be relieved
of just that many of its freshmen stu
dents. Naturally this will provide
more room for more high school
youngsters.
Ready by 1919
Work could be started on the two
junior high schools in the Spring or
summer of 1917 so that these hutl'd
ings should he ready for occupancy by
not later than September. 1918. The
Hill school, of course, will be located
at Chestnut and Nineteenth streets
where the School Board already owns
suiAclent ground to aliow the erection
of a suitable structure. Operations in
cidentally on the new girls' high
school itnd the remodeling of Techni
cal high to accommodate the high
school girls and boyfv respectively will
L'o started within the year and they
should bo ready, unless unforeseen de
lays prevent, by not later than Sep
tember. 1919.
The Tax Rate Increase
The question of whether or not the
proposed loan will entail any partic
ular increase in the mill rate was dis
cussed briefly this morning by the Rev.
William N. Yates, chairman of the
special School Hoard committee.
THE WEATHER,
For Harrisburg rind vicinity: la.
Mettled to-night and Thursday,
probably ruin; wanner I lonrat
temperature to-night aliout -10
_ degree*!.
For Petinsylvnnini Unbi
lled to-night nnd Thursday, prob
ably ralni nnrmer to-night In
nortli and neat portions) warmer
Iburaday; moderate, posslbly
frcsh northeast Minds.
.... River
i "'""luehnnna river and Ita
branohfn Mill fall Mlotrly or re
main nearly Mtatioiiary to-night,
lulit mar cauac a rlhp In nomr or
©f the fttrcaniN of the nyntem
Ihiirnday. A Mas** of about 11.3
f.TS . ' B dlcnted for Ilnrrlnburit
1 hurinlny morning.
General Coiulitlona
The tntpiral storm la central near
the Middle ttulf ronst. It hna
caused general ralna In the (Julf
States, Georgia and Tennessee In
the last twenty-four hours.
There has been a general fall of 2
to 38 ilegrers In temperature over
nearly all the eastern hair of the
country, being most decided In
the Middle Atlantic and New Eng
land States. It Is 2 to .'ill degrees
colder In the Northwest.
Temperature* R a. m.. .in.
Man Rises ■ OiZD a. m.; aeta, 5:21
p. m.
Mooni Sen mnon, October 2(1, jsjj
p. m.
Illver Stages 3.3 feet above low
wnter mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature. III).
I.onest temperature. -111.
Mean temperature, 54.
.Normal temperature, 34- i .
I The present tax rate of ten mills.
I he pointed, was destined to cover cost
i of operations, etc., and to provide for
j the paying off of a deficit. All told
I this ran into something like SIOO,OOO
| and practically a full mill had been
apportioned for this purpose. This
| deficit will be cleared off in the next
I two years and this would mean ordin-
[Continucd on Pago 3]
"DEVELOP YOUR
RIVER FRONT," IS
EXPERT'S ADVICE
llurrisburg Has Finest in Coun
try, but Has Neglected
Finishing Touches
"Harrlsburg has the finest River
! Front of any town 1 have ever visited
| and I have oeen in all the large cities
,of this country and Canada. 1 was
i litre in 1910 and was so impressed
' with the possibilities that I came back
on my way from New Orleans espe
cially to see what progress you had
I made In Its development. You have
laid a splendid foundation, but you
| have woefully neglected the finishing
touches."
This is the view of Alexander Stuart,
vice-president of the American Park
! Superintendents' Association, and su-
[ Continued on Page 2.)
West Indian Hurricane
Sweeping Across Gulf Coast
at 90 Miles an Hour Clip
Washington, Oct. 18. The West
I Indian hurricane which has been driv
ing through the Caribbean sea and
' Gulf of .Mexico this week. Is rapidly
; approaching the American coast and
is expected to move inland somewhere
I between New Orleans and Apalachico
i la. F!a. Hurrican warnings were or
dered by the Waether Bureau at 9
|a. in. to be hoisted between those
points. Indications were that the
| storm hod increased in intensity as it
| nearcd the coast and all marine and
i other Interests along the gulf were
given warning.
TIDE CP TWO FEET
New Orleans, Oct. 18. The wind
1 was blowing 72 miles an hour from
1 the northeast at Pensacola, Fla., at
8.15 this morMng. A report to the
j Weather Bureau here said the barom-
I eter at Pensacola showed 29.40 and a
| tide two feet higher than normal was
i running.
MONTGOMERY CUT OFF
i Montgomery, Ala., Oct. 18.—A tel<S
' phone message from Pensacola at
9:10 a. m. stated the wind had
reached a velocity of 71 miles an hour,
after which there was a lull, the wind
dropping back to 61 miles an hour.
The storm center apparently is headed
'directly toward Pensacola.
The last wire, a telephone circuit,
into Mobile from Montgomery failed
at 11:15 a. m. The gale was unoffi
cially estimated at from 90 to 100
miles an hour. Although the tide is
high, property damage at this time
was reported as slight in comparison
! to the July hurricane.
COTTON TAKES BIG JL'MP
New Orleans, Oct. 18. The most
sensational advance of this extra
! ordinary season in cotton ocurred
, around the opening of the market to
day as the result of the rqmor that
the tropical hurricane had struck the
cotton region near Mobile. Prices
were lifted 63 to 89 points, nearly
$4.50 a bale' on the strongest months.
;The July option went to 19.17 cents a
: pound, the highest price ever record
ed on the local future contract boards.
| WHEAT BREAKS A LI. RECORDS
I Chicago. ()ct. 18. All high prices
since the European war began were
outdone to-day in the wheat market
here. Notwithstanding a jump yes
terday of more than 7 cents a bushel
the market to-day ascended further
4 74c, with December touching $1.68
,as against $1.63 <4 to $1.63 % at yes
terday's finish.
IIARRfSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY-EVENING, OCTOBER IS, 1916
WHO SAYS CURFEW SHALL NOT BLOW TONIGHT ?
i
CAUSE w\ 4OIN TO THE )
C ~~~ SHOW- t(lf IF IT AWT OVER j
\ I , I s O'CLOCK t CAM
HEY! ITS AFTER , <*SAMNW-, ] ) PUT THESE o6R r*, An'
9 O'CLOCK-WHAT ) ALL RIGHT YWOTHMtYA \ DEN "THEY CANT CHASE I
ARE VA' DOW' OUT ( M.STERCOP-'OOT J 1 WE OOT >' <**
TWSLATE? ( | OOT^N^SreALSOMt I %VOU 70 \
7 —V _y I'LL FIX you so WMKI |BH|
I ( you'll never even u v v v tf i
K>Sf>ER /'l'l'i 11
Children UNDER is >•"-- hwe WEN ,TS T ' ME to retire—THE
TO SUON A WRITTEN EXCUSE TO \iniiiriiniinnuinn iiumi ■ mini mmi ABOVE: PICTURE IS A SUGGESTION
STAY OUT AFTER 9 O'CLOCV. LJLMIIHHIIII|HHHI(L(LFLLL/<L TU THE MDS.
Cx K \ •• ' ' Q£> - * (HE CERTAINLV LOOKS \
£ fj* \ ) .' '/ xjikT , J DBPHRATt-fU_ )
X/ && A ■. _ . *' . ( HAVETOfteCOMWENoW
V* # ) /"' /HE WAS our AFTER ) FOR A MEDAL \
1 ; "%.. (KM 1 TWATK.' ) " I ARRESTED HIM T~~
„ V - ff.® c ~ . _ / ONLY APTERAHARO /
—("" ohalu Not Blow To-ni&ht j /
) .—. C"T"S >4 WHAT VIILL HAPPEN WHEN THE VWISTLE. f
no j C 6CTS ° F H( ) N
J \ Hl* VIU'I* FFS
ETC° —. THE POLICE WILL MOW
is HVEAMT Foe TMECV. ® E W " t T ° WAKE A
(fccUtoxLo
J
LET US HAVE NO MORE TEMPORIZING
HARRISBURG is paying the penalty of official supineness and
pennywise-pound-foolishness. An inexcusable typhoid
fever epidemic has not only brought sorrow and suffering
in its wake, but the fame of a fair city has been tarnished beyond the
power of words to describe.
There must be no more temporizing. No more backing and
filling over the cost; no more fear of political or personal conse
quences of drastic official action.
If existing law is not sufficient let the emergency suggest the
method and the procedure. We have been told for weeks that the
trouble is not with the water—thank heaven for that!—but that
this disease lurks in the ice cream and milk dispensed to a helpless'
community. That being true, why, in the name of all that is reason
able, have dealers in this liquid and congealed invitation to death
been permitted to continue selling to the people without let or
hindrance?
.Why should the sale of ice cream and milk and cream be allowed
under the circumstances? Choke the scourge at its source! Demand
that every ounce of the creamery products sold in Harrisburg be
subject to inspection daily without regard to the number of inspec
tors. Let competent and courageous men be employed for this
necessary and important service. Why wait for still more deaths
and the misery •of stricken households, where wageearners are
unable to provide for their families, before striking the blow that will
end the reign of the colon bacillus? Stop the traffic in all ice cream
and milk products not officially inspected.
The people of Harrisburg will back with their approval all
requisite steps to this end, but let us have an end of watchful
waiting!
"WE NEED YOUR HELP",
SAY WILSON COLLECTORS
NAMED TO GET FUNDS
After several weeks of strenuous
appeal and hysterical argument, which
fell upon the unheeding and un
sympathetic ears of certain prominent
Harrisburg Democrats, the "Auxiliary
Finance Committee of the Democratic
National Committee for the County
of Dauphin, Pennsylvania," has at
last been created. These are the
gentlemen who have been induced to
Nine Perish, Six of Them
Women, in N. Y. Fire
New York. Oct. 18. Two more
bodies were found to-day In the fire
swept ruins of the Oakes Dye Manu
facturing Company's plant In Queens
borough, bringing the number of vic
tims up to nine.
The dead, of whom six were young
women, include Harry C. Cook, 42
years old. treasurer of the company
and the chief bookkeeper, three as
sistant bookkeepers, the telephone op
erator and three stenographers. In
vestigators to-day expressed belief
that those who perished tarried In an
effort to save the company's books,
which were found preserved in a safe,
and were then overcome by acid fumes
before tlio flames reached them. The
property loss is estimated at upwards
of $176,000.
serve as the collectors of cash for the
Wilson cause: Samuel Kunkel, H. E.
Hershey, T. K. Van Dyke, Henry B.
McCormlck. Benjamin M, Nead,
Casper Dull and Dr. J. Ross Swartz.
In the touching and beautiful letter
sent to worthy Democrats to-day
many of whom will not respond to the
[Continued on l-tgc 3 J
C. I. & S. Co. Receivers Will
Pay Creditors 20 Per Cent
Receivers of the Central Iron and
Steel Company have asked the court
in the usual way for permission to
pay the creditors of the company
twenty per cent, of their claims. This
payment of one-fifth will be made In
a few days and It is stated upon ex
cellent authority that other pay
ments will be made from month to
month until the entire indebtedness
Is wiped out. It Is conrtdently ex
pected that all claims will be settled
in full in four or six months.
RESURRECT HUSH QUESTION'
London, Oct. 18. The Irish ques
tion was again brought to the fore In
the House of Commons to-day with
the introduction by John Itedmond
of a motion criticising the system gov
ernment of the island.
TYPHOID FEVER
EPIDEMIC WANES
REPORTS SHOW
Only 24 New Cases; Health
Officers Urge Continuing
of Precautions
Harrisburg's typhoid ' vcr epidemic,
probably the worst in 0 history of
the city, is abating:, according to Dr.
•T. M. J. Raunick, city health officer,
in n statement which he made to-day.
With only twenty-four Aiew cases in
the last five days, some of which are
secondary ones, the crest has been
passed, according to the health official.
Dr. Raunick. however, issued a
wavn'ng to residents .of the city to
continue taking precautions and also
to watch their milk supply. Milk deal
ers also are being instructed to watch
[Continued on Page 7]
Shortage in Print Paper
Is Growing Much Worse
j New York. Oct. 18.—Recent develop
ments in the while paper market In
j dicate that the shortage which was
! predicted early this year is an actual
condition and that the prospects are
not encouraging; to the publishers.
I The scarcity of print paper has in the
last few weeks caused the newspapers
to institute economies hitherto un
! known In the business and to look
I around for additional methods of con-
I serving the stock in hand. Even al
lowing for drastic reductions In con
i sumption next year, experts point out
j that the demand will not come up to
I the supply. The public, it was said
I yesterday, must realize that smaller
i newspapers are due.
I The situation has become so serious
! that a dozen different remedies have
i been advocated and adopted recently.
! Cutting down the size of the paper or
ithe advertising is only one of these.
! Raising the price of tlie newspaper and
i watching to detect the smaller waste of
j space are other devices adopted.
J A Gordon Mclntyre, a retired official
iof the Canadian Pulp and Paper As
sociation and an authority in the paper
I trade, has been chosen by the American
j Newspaper Publishers' Association to
'start a new department, lie will con
| fer with the publishers and act as
their representative iu negotiations
with the paper manufacturers. To some
of those in the newspaper publishers'
i ranks it looks as though the country
| dailies and weeklies, which cannot or
i will not contract for their print paper
;in quantity, will be forced to sus
| pend.
TO PARADE FOR JITNEYS
t l.ahor Organisations to Join ill Street
Demonstration
Representatives of more than a
dozen labor organizations of the city
met last night at the headquarters of
the Pennsylvania Federation of I.abor,
222 Market street, to arrange for n big
parade and mass meeting on the night i
of November 4 to urge citizens to vote
for the amendment to the Jitney ordi
nance, reducing the license fee and
bond.
H. M. Brooks was chosen marshal
of the parade. Other labor organ
izations will be represented at the next
meeting and all workers of the city,
bolb. organized and unorganized, are j
to be Invited to the parade.
BLUE IXmtJK HOI.DS STAG
More than 750 members of the Blue
T.<odge held a stag social last night at
the Harrisburg Consistory, A. A. S. U.
Masons. The evening was spent in
enjoying vaudeville acts by home
talent, after wlileh refreshments were
served. The menu Included baked
beens, cider, doughnuts and pumpkin
pies.
VL'TO KIIJLS GRAY SQUIRREL
A little gray squirrel from Capitol
Park was killed by an automobile to
day on North Third street. The auto
wns too speedy for the little fellow.
e
t •''..*(!
£
I ; ' . •> < . v-ti-r- !
C •;', 1
1 " • ••"•'•I ••I-': >• ■ '* ■•: t'lr State
1 ition and ad- I
:; v: tht uhjc ' I'h ■ '.' .;t • ■no s tritary
1 i |
*
!ii'v " - •, ;
< 1 :*V i
I ... id !
i 9 ih |
• i ■ .... . .. t I
I i *
I suffered in Mobile property was estimated at not e
ii cceding a few thousand dollr.rs. One life was tou, a negro -I
, | - .led \ • > .-it
j| CAPTAIN BOELKE REPORTED WOUNDED j
Pans, Qrt IH. J"j (T,,_h nev.-.n,'ricr vivs it learnti
I from an authorized source that Captain Boelke, the cele- i
Ibrated German aviator h' teen •v< wounded by a
shell from a French anti-aircraft guh. On October Boelke (I
brought down his thirtieth entente allied machine. I
"T
< • M r , |
1 '••••.. .■ shots j
■, in the crowded courtroom of Judge Foell to-day, probably j
( fatally wounding Jacob Klaus, who had been named by her j
!
< • Harrisburg,—William Jennings, president of the Com- j
I monwealth Trust Company and president of the William J
| Pcnn Highway Association, late this afternoon war. elected 1
•jf president 'of the First National Bank to succeed James j
j t Brady. W. P. Starkey was elected to the directorate to 1
succeed Mr. Brady. j
, Harrisburg Dorsey Eaynham, colored, 168 Ridge <1
street, Steelton, was shot in the chest this afternoon by a J
, companion. He is in the Harrisburg hospital. J
MARRIAGE LICENSES j
t 9 i
Daniel llerniMn l.ucker anil Mlsa Bather Mar Kndera, HnrrUhor*. j
William Frank Crlder, Oakdale, and Marie Anna Mjera, Lcttlttowi. I
■ Vl#™ I Vlfil
14 PAGES CITY EDITION
RUMANIANS MAKE
EFFECTIVE STAND
AGAINST TEUTONS
Belligerents on All Fronts Re
doubling Efforts Despite
Cold Weather
RUSSIANS TO RESCUE
Throw Force Into Carpathian
Passes; Allies Make Prog
* ress Along Sonnne
Official announcements to-day from,
the entente side report an effective
stand by thp Rumanians against Gen
eral Von Falkenhayn's armies along
the Transylvania border and the
Sanginary repulse by the French of
heavy German assaults on the new
French positions in Sailly-Salllisel on
the Ronnue front.
The approach of the cold season I#
accompanied by no diminution in
activity In most of the Europ- n bat
tle areas. In some of them indeed,
the efforts of the belligerents appar
ently are being redoubled. This seems
notably true along the eastern front,
from Volhynia to Rumania, wlienc®
continuous lighting is reported.
Further south the attempt of the
central powers to drive a wedge be
tween the Russians and Rumanians
near Dorna Watra, in the southern
[Continued on I'ngc 2.]
Abdul Aziz Fanson Declares
War on Emir Hussein After
He Rebels Against Sultan
Berlin, Oct. 18 (by wireless). —Re-
poits from Constantinople to thft Over
seas News Agency say that a powerful
sheik of western Arabia. Abdul Aziz
Fanson Emir Seid, has declared war
on the former Emir Hussein after
learning that llie Emir had rebelled
against the sultan of Turkey.
HURRICANE HEADED NORTH
Mobile, Alu., Oct. If. With-the
barometer steadily falling and tho
wind blowing fifty-two miles an hour
at Mobile early this morning, Gulf
coast cities anxiously awaited the latest
weather reports which would accu
rately locate the center of the tropical
disturbance reported headed this way.
Weather Observer Ashenberger said it
was his opinion the storm was driving
directly this way.
