VT- 4
wrath rn forecast
rlr HMIlfxItri Huir-.l.n
:- M..,t,. Prhhly Rain. -!
htbltc
t
THF LRHflRR I an adrr- -J-
I- Usln msdlnm that hrfnr ra 4
I- nlf. Onr rate ars eon.l.t- 4.
nt with rlrmlatlnn. Try u. .
4
!-! ..
MAYSVILI.E, KENTUCKY, WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 18, 1916.
AIL. Pl'KLIC I.K1XIKK
OAS COPY-OHS CBffT.
IM
; IIIM.KV IIUtN Nr., I Hr. I IIY Id: DM 1
ELECT OFFICERS
HWHVII.IK PI, VMS KtKMVW.
(Portsmouth Times)
Stockholder i thr Vw People Having hoard so much about tlio
arflioii( Pick Out the Heads f wonderful auccoaa of Portsmouth's fa
h (ortnratlnn for the moua Knrn Karnlval, the city of Mays
I cn.iiriL 1 cai 1 vlll la contemplating holding a Tohnc
ro Karnival this fall.
Th ate kholibrs of the Peoples Probably more tobacco la ralaed In
WhtflkWM ( 'miipnny held their elec- and around Mayavllle and handled
tlon of officers In thla city yeaterday. there than any city along the Ohio
The election waa the first one held by and aa Ita farmera alao raise mucr.
the new company, the following were corn the business men have atarted n
the directors selected by the stockhold- movement for n Tobacco-Korn Karnl
ers for running UM business of the val to be held direr or four daya.
corporation: 11. U Turner, H. H. Secretary F. P. Roone, repreaetitlng
Wood, I). J. Keea, Dr. A. O. Taylor and the bualneaa men of Mayavlllo, was
Robert Wclla. here Saturday afternoon and called
The following officers were then on Ralph Thomaa, aecretary of the
chosen: Rualneaa Men's Association for "point
President aNd (Jcuernl Manager R era" aa to how to hold a Karnlval.
L Turner. Mayavllle'B Karnlval may be held
VMM l'rii(lent H M. Wood. November 30 and December 1 and 2.
Secretary Thomas A. Keith, Jr.
muwif-D. K. Wood. MLMMfl IMSS I llltiM 1. II
BLUEGRASS LEAGUE
REVIVAL REPORTED
Plans MRf Silently Made for Opera
tion of lln-e Hall Organisation
With Clubs at Lexington, Paris.
I milkier!. HaysTllle, Win
chester and Richmond
During 1017.
Sales Manager- -Robert Wells.
Work of erecting the new ware- A detachment of the Second West
house will begin at once as three barge Virginia Infantry passed through
loads of material from the old ware- Maysvllle yoBterday afternoon on route
house In Manchester have arrived and to Port Thomas, Ky., where the regi
are being unloaded. Messrs. Harding 'ent will be weeded out. those beiim
and Simons, who have the contract unable to stand the tests being com
for tearing down and building have pelled to return to their homes and
about completed the work and the re- those remaining will be stationed at
malnder of the material will be trans- 'hat point until they become hardened
ported to this city at once. to camp life. They will then be sent
The outlook of the new concern to the Mexican Border. The detach
scems to be very rosy indeed and the ment was in charge of Lieutenant
new ollicers seem very optimistic over Cornwall of Charleston, W. Va.
their success. The new warehouse
now gives Maysvllle eight looseleaf to
bacco warehouses and several redry
in& plants.
The men at the head of the new con
cern ar.' among the most prominent
tobacco men in the slate Mr. Robert
Veils, the new sales manager, Is
known everywhere for his knowledge
of tobacco nnd tobacco markets. He
has been connected with the local mar
kets for a number of yearB and has a The Kast window of the J. T. Kack-
great host of friends throughout the ley Rook Store presents an unique
county. Mr. Turner, the president, has Hallowe'en display. Tho window is
also been here for a number of years, the work of Miss Lucy Wilson, th.
The presence of these men on the floor popular clerk of that store and Is cre-
o.' the new house will doubtless serve talnly a credit to that lady.
to bring it much business. !
The City Mission's Annual Uirthda
Party will be a Hallowe'en party on
WILL ARRIVE FRIDAY
The mother of Albert Starks, the
man who van shot by Pete Faulkner
at South Ripley last week, will arrive
here Friday to take charge of the body
of her son. The body will be until
her arrival.
ATTRACTIVE WIHMW
Mr. J. n. Heiser of Covington was in
this city yesterday looking after his
tobacco Interests.
Tuesday night,
10 o'clock.
October 31, from
to
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car
Good Order For
Winter.
in
Parts and Sup
plies Cars For Hire
GOOD0YEAR
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim Cuto I'V lha No Kltn Cut feutura.
3lowoutt by the "On Air" cure.
Looaa Traodt by uuiny rubtx-r livrtv
Wurtuniy i v I 'ti hral'lcd pinno wire.
Puncture and SLiddin by t..e Uuublt
thlck All-Weather tread.
(Lexington leader)
While there is talk of organizing
another circuit next year In Ohio, to
be known aB the Ohio State league,
there are also rumors floating around
which predict that the old Hluogras,
league will again be in operation dur
ing the year 1917.
It was learned from a well-founded
source today that there are a MMfcM
of Kentucky towns that would wel
come the advent of this league wili
open arms. Among the towns men
tioned for berths In the league are
Paris, Frankfort, Maysvllle. Lexing
ton, Winchester and Richmond.
The lllugress league was In opera
tion up till about four yearB ago when
aome of the towns with franchises be
came disatlstled and decided to throw
up the sponge. Several of the towns
then Joined the Ohio State League,
those being Frankfort. Maysvllle am'
Lexington. The league operated UM
about the middle of last July, and was
then forced ta quite because of poor
attendance In all of the cities. Prac
tically every club in the Ohio State
league lost money the past season
and sooner than continue they le Ided
to give it up for the balance of the
season.
The men who are promt linn the
plan to recognize the Rluepass MW
are working very slowly and carefully
and expect to have things napped OKI
by the first of the year. One thing
that does more to hurt a class "D
league like the Ohio Slate or Mine
grass, is the long jumps from one
town to another. This fault is to be
corrected by the Hluegrass league pro
moters. If the six above towns thai
are after berths in the MajagfBM
league are taken in, there will not be
any long jumps.
When the Hluegrass league was In
the field their were any number
star players developed and sent to tin
"big show", such as Fred Toney. slur
liurler of the Cincinnati Reds; Cari
Weilnian. southpaw pitcher, now with
the St. Ijouis Hrowns, and Jimmy Vlox.
who played with the Pittsburgh Pi
rates for several seasons and Is now
in the International league. While in
1 he Hluegrass league, Toney waa s
member of the Winchester team; Well
man was with Maysvllle, and Vio
with Lexington
"Casey" Stengel. Hrooklyn oullield
er, who has been perfoiming so bril
liantly in th." present world's series,
also played in this league, being a
member of the Maysville team in ttM
Other players developed in this league
who have made their marks in high
class professional base ball are: Jim
my Jones, A I Kaiser, Fred Mollen
kamp. "II limply'' lladel, Jim llluck.
Karl Williams and "Muck" Mctlray-nor.
(Cincinnati Knqulrer)
Manager Mathewson has picked up n
pitching marvel who Is only 17 year
old. This lad simply had to break Into
a major league at this tender age be
cause. It is ssid. h could not get anv
catcher In the amateur or semi-pro
Links who could hold tils delivery. His
name is Febrls and he hails from Hlp
1 y, Ohio In his ltat amateur game
i'ehrls struck out 1H batsmen.
Since no one could hold Febrls
delivery when he got those lit strike
outs the catcher merely knocked down
the pitched balls and got 19 assists,
a world's record, by throwing out the
runner at first base.
insracTioK
flAY
F.XT KOV
The annual Inspection of the officials
of the C O. Railroad will begin next
Monday morning from Clifton Foree,
Vn The inspection train will he In
Maysvllle about 3 o'clock of that af
ternoon. The inspection party will be
cc m posed of the president of the road
the general superintendents, the dlvl
slon superintendents, supervisors and
others. The train will consist of four
or Ave private cars and one inspection
car. The entire road w ill be gone over
by the party.
MHttl spits
Measurements for six suits rjr the
members of the lllh School llaskW
Hall team for this year were made
yesterday and the order for the satin
has been SPnt. The team this yenr
promises to be a very stronu one Md
they Hill undoubtedly hr In'.' lu ' i th.
bacon more time than they BM in.-
year. The girls will also hnv I I ten
this year.
LIFT FOR TFXAS
Mrs Mattle Rarhour of this city re
ceived a telegram from her son, Cor
poral Tom Barbour, of the Second
West Virginia Regiment, that has been
stationed at Kanawha City, W. Va ,
for the past several months the tele
gram Is as follows:
Kanawha City, W Va., Oclober 17.
Am leaving tonight for Forth Sain
Houston. Texas. TOM.
1 h. mnn is in 11 1 it
The many friends of Mr. .1 W. Rrad-j
ner or Ashland, former superintenden'
of school In Maysvllle, who has been
111 for the past ten days with diph
theria at bis home, is considerably Im
proved, and is now well on the road to
recovery. Reports from his bedside
ate to the effect that he will soon be
able to be out again.
(afBaBaBVBrfnaBBaaBV-
ompl. lo line. All prices. We can fit von. Satisfaction p M
imtee.l. ,y py city prices when yon eatl gi the same tins 3
from 11s at one-hnlf the cost. M
oru r 3 EI
All sizes. Knhlior tip. Best gmde
!'9
See our lint
I
M. F. WILLIAMS & COMPANY S
CORNER THIRD AND MARKET STAEETS
aiHaaiHiBBBUHi
See Us About Your Eyes
We give you honest advice, QUAL
ITY 8KRVICK an.: SATISFACTION.
Rroken lenses duplicated.
Rr. II. Kulin 11I riartamll N Monday
tr MMfgf Ret lac F.terj lB).
Optometrists and Opticians.
OK. cte Hull. ling
Creams ani Ices
If You Are a Sufferer
From the Heat, Try Our
BIERLE Y'S CONFECTIONERY
Market HI reef
West Side.
A IHMIKMM, PQRCH
adds immensely to ttke nQrjajice of
a house and the comJJ&rt and satisfac
tion of the occupaats. To know how
Malty it can he hail JuBt come and
look over our mill-worked columns,
railings, etc., all so perfectly made and
adjusted that you can put them up
yourself, and the cost Is so little!
The Mason Lumber Company
Center Mmesttine and Second Street.
Phone M.
' I rlsnhl'n R Rehan.
MARVLLANR
VOTF.
HILL 4.1 VK
O RltiHtS'
MM'
PIAYIB at lit: imh 1 n
The lllugress ('oniert Rand rf this
city played lor the speakiti" of lOx
Coveru ir Cox lit Aberdeen yesterday
The haw) lias lioen somewhat in de
mand tor the past several weeks for
political gatherings and In every In
siance have given satisfaction
LATIHfl (.'AS LDfl
The Majlsvllle (las Company is en
i :if.ed in laying a gas line on lha Sec
ond street extension. The pip. is about
ready to be laid and the branch Hat
will be finished by the latter part of
the week If nothing unexpected comes
up.
DRESS ROMEO AS CHARLIE CHAPLIN
And Shakespeare's Immortal Lover Will Be Far From Convincing
Dress a prosperous business man in a suit of inferior quality and he bc
eomes a joke.
k Dress any man in Hechinger Clothes and he looks prosperous, feels pros
perous and is sure to be prosperous.
Come in and see o.ur new suits. They are stunners. They not only have
qualities that appeal to your taste, but also have intrinsic worth that is shown
in long and satisfactory usefulness. Here you can select from the makes of:
Society Brand, Fashion Park, Stein-Bloch, Michaels, Stern & Co., Clothcraft, Grif
fon, Adler-Rochester.
D H EC HU NG ER & CO.
MEN'S AN BOYS' OUTFITTERS
aasnaaaBaasiMiisiiiaii :zoammmmmmmmmmmm!mvmmLMmKmxmmu&mammmemiMmmamaxm$
The Thrifty Farmer i
Keeps His Eye Pealed" For
IIP-mTUr-MINIITF
Ul I J I Ilk If I II1U I Li
FARMMAWRYi
I llllll llll IVIIIIIbll
and that's the kind of man we cater to.
The New Peoria Drill is without a doubt
the most complete farm machine of its
kind on the market today, and we want
you to see it. It op ns the furrow, drops
the seed at the bottom, and brings you a
better and bigger yield.
Don't forget the name, "New Peoria,"
and that it is sold by
MIKE BROWN
4 4 The Square Deal Man"
Ww York, October 17 Marylumt
M ho longer u doubtful State, but will
go for Hughes, Ueclures Uenerul X
VYinslow William of Ilaltlinore. Gen
eral Williams has been a lifelong
Democrat and served four yeurs us
secretary of State of Maryland. In
I 1 -J he supported Hoosevelt and
served as Progressive national com
mitteeman from his State. He was I
culler at the Hughes alliance head
quarters. "Some of the most prom
inent Democrats iu llaltimore arc
U' lively supporting (icnernor Hughes,"
declared CJeui rul Williams. "The presi
dent aj the Hughes llusiuess Men's
league is ('. ('. Homer, president of thel
First National bunk and of the Haiti-
more clearing house. He hud never
been anything but a Democrat up to
IMf Une of the league's vice presi- j
dents is Thomus O Nelll, a leading dry-
goods dealer of llaltimore, also u life
Icng Democrat. S. Stuart Janney, one
of the best known members of the
Maryland bur. aiid an old Hue Demo
crat, also a vice president of the
league. The secretary aud treasurer
i the league are Democrats. Registra
tion figures show that Hughes will
carry .Maryland There was a falling
off of 2,200 in the Democratic ulnlla
linii In llaltimore, while the Repub
lican ultlliatloii Increased 2,000. In
the last Slate election the Democrats
wcu by 3.000. llaltimore t'lty nave the
Democratic ticket 4,500 majority. It
i apparent on the basis of the de
1 lease aud increase of adulations that
Maryland Is lost to Wilson."
UNUSUAL HANDBAGS FOR $1
A surprise awaits every womau who comes today to see
these pretty handbags, for surely a dollar never bought such
exceptional ones. The collection is noteworthy for variety
and smartness of styles, as well as good material and work
manship Ruffs Are Most Becoming As Every Woman Knows
The softening effect of a moline or feather ruff is a becom
ing addition to any toilet. For youth or maturity it is equally
charming. A select assortment at 50c to $1.50 in moline and
$3.98 to $9.50 in ostrich.
i 1S52
aw
1916
All members of Maysvllle 1'ouaall 1 w
No. 1377 K off are requested to laq 0
this eveniug at 7:30 o'clock at which
lime Dtatricl Deputy lKnovau will ha
ITeseiii to install olttcara.
I in is CUMMIN U. K.
John McAullte, Secretary
: New Arrivals in Coats, Suits, Dresses and Hats
Too many st les to describe. You can rest assured that the
prices are right and that the price on the ticket is our lowest
price.
j You'll Forget the Cold
if you sleep under a pair of our all wool blankets. A very large
J purchase of our New York office over twelve months ago makes
the prices only
JK2T$5.95, $6.95, $7.!
Worth today 25 per cent. more.
:
:
