THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 183.
BAIIKE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
1
TEUTON FORCES
BEING HALTED
In One Place the Rumanians
Have Resumed the
Offensive
'ARE DRIVING BACK
THE INVADERS
.All Military News from Ru
manian Fronts Reassur
1 ing to the Entente
Bucharest. Tuesday, via , London,
Wednesday, Oct. 18. Rumanian troops
in the Predeal region south of Kronstadt
liave resumed the offensive and are driv
ing buck the Teutonic forces on the
Transylvania side of the border, says an
official announcement.
Violent Teutonic attacks are in prog
ress a Ions the entire front in the Carpa
thians, but the entente lines have not
been penetrated, the announcement add.
AH the military news from the Ruma
nian fronts is declared to be reassuring,
FRANCO-ITALIAN
RAID BY AIR
ON AUSTRIA
Attacked Warships and Defensive Works
at Rovigno and Punta Salvora and
Shot Down Two Austrian
Aeroplanes.
Rome, via Paris, Oct. 18. Squadrons of
French and Italian seaplanes have bom
barded Austrian warships and defensive
works at Rovigno and Punta Salvora on
the east coast of latrian, according to
an oflicial statement to-day. The state
ment savs that two Austrian aeroplanes
which attempted to attack allied sea
planes were shot down and the French
and Italian machines returned sateiy.
CROWD ROARED APPRECIATION.
As Hughes Answered Hecklers at Sioux
City Rally.
Sioux City, Oct. 18 Charles E. Hughe,
facing a friendly audience sprinkled with
hecklers last night replied in answer to a
question as to whether ho would repeal
the Adamson law if elected president
that a surrender could not be repealed."
Mr. Hughes was asked what he would
ha ve done to avert the threatened railroad
strike.
"If arbitration had been refused," Mr.
Hughes replied, "I should have gone right
to the American people, stated the facts
and put the responsibilty where it be
longed."
"I should at the same time, Mr.
Hughes continued, "have secured a com
mission so impartial, so fair as to com
mand the respect of the entire country
and directing public opinion to that end
there is no group of men in the United
States that would have dared hold up the
instrumentaities of commerce if that
were done."
The heckler still had another question
to ask.
"Mr. Hughes," ho said, "any question
that is asked here is asked with no en
mity toward the candidate of the Repub-
ican party, you would have done all
that within 24 hours?"
Why, sir," the nominee replied, "the
business men of the United States
through the chamber of commerce of the
United States on July 29 sent a tele
gram to the president asking for an in
quiry. A resolution was introduced in
the Senate for an inquiry and was laid
on the table. For months the business
men of the United States asked for an
inquiry as to this very matter, and the
crisis was allowed to be developed, when
t was unnecessary that it should have
been developed, and there was adequate
ime to ascertain what the facts were.
IRELAND CASE
AGAIN TO FORE
Redmond Introduced Reso
lution Criticizing Sys
tem of Government
CONSCRIPTION NOT
TAKEN UP YET
But It Is Expected to Be the
Subject of Debate
Thursday
TOTAL OF NINE DEAD.
FRENCH ADAMANTINE
TO GERMAN ATTACK
ON SOMME FRONT
Three Times Last Night the Germans
Attacked at Sailly-Saillisel and
French Maintained Their
Positions.
Faris, Oct. 18. Threo times last night
the Germans delivered attacks on French
Positions in Sailly-Saillisel on the Somme
front. The war office announces that
the French maintained all their positions
and inflicted heavy losses on the der
mans. Near Berny-on-Santerre, the Ger
jnans gained a footing in the French
first line trench, but were driven out.
BRITISH ADVANCE
DESPITE RAINFALL
ON WESTERN FRONT
JToved Their Lines Eastward Between
Albert-Bapaume Road and Les
boeuf s-Klesboeaus, Taking
Some Prisoners.
London, Oct. 18. "Rain fell heavily
during the night, says to-day s official
report from the front in France; not
withstanding this, we made progress at
Various points between the Albert-Ba-jmume
road and Lesboe.ufs-Klesboeaus,
y'e have taken some prisoners."
ITALY POSSESSES
SPEEDY WARSHIPS
New Type of Vessel, Which Burns Oil,
is Much Faster Than Largest
Trans-Atlantic Liner.
Rome, via Paris, Oct. 18. Italy now
possesses a type of warship whose speed
is three times as great as that of the
greatest trans -Atlantic liner, according to
the Giornale Italia. The sea trial of
the first of these ships which was com
pleted was witnessed bv a correspond
ent of the newspaper. Three others are
being built. All use oil fuel.
In Fire Which Swept Through $250,000
Plant.
New York, Oct. 18. Two more bodies
ere found to-day in the fire-swept ruins
of Oakes Dye Manufacturing company's
plant in Queens borough, bringing tne
number of victims tip to nine, of whom
sir were young women. The material
loss was $25,1)00.
There were six young women and the
three men on the second floor when the
fire began. A steel railway led from
the upper floor to the first tioor on the
side ot the building, there also were
two iron fire escapes and one steel stair
way escape on the outside. A half doz
en windows were close to where the
young women were at work and it would
have been a drop of only IB feet to the
street. The authorities believe the em
ployes were suffocated by chemical fumes
and were unable to escape.
London, Oct. 18. The Irish question
was again brought to the fore in the
House of Commons to-day with the in
troduction of a resolution by John Red
mond, criticizing the system of govern
ment of the island. The resolution
reads: ,
"That the system of government at
present maintained in Ireland is incon
sistent with the principles for which the
allies are fighting in Europe and is or
has been mainly responsible for the re
cent unhappy events and for the present
state of feeling in that country."
The question of conscription did not
come under Redmond's motion, but it
was expected to be discussed to-morrow
when the whole subject of the main pow
er of the empire comes under review.
John Rawlinson, Unionist"rnember for
Cambridge university, moved M an
amendment to the Redmond resolution,
the following:
"Having regard for the importance of
the United Kingdom and Ireland com-1
bining with the rest of the empire in
presenting a united front to the enemy
it is not desirable at the present time to
discuss controversial matters of domes
tic politics."
ST. ALBANS CHURCH
IS 100 YEARS OLD
ARE STILL HELD
WITHOUT OATH
St. Luke's Episcopal Parish Observed Its
Anniversary To-day with
Special Exercises.
St. Albans, Oct. 18.St. Luke's Rpiseo
pal parish is observing to-day, St. Luke's
day, the 100th anniversary of its lncor
poration. Holy coipmunion was cele
brated this morning at 10 o'clock, und
the rector, Rev. George W. Smith, will
give an historical address at a service to
be held this evening. 1 he vested choir of
The first Episcopal m-rvicos in St. AI-MJ. J. VJUV U J. 1 WUiU
bans were helu in 1810, at which time PTVFQ PTTT TTMP
sent to this county, first visited St. Al
bans and performed ttie service of the
church. In AueuBt of that year the
Massachusetts Militiamen
Can Be Called On for
Federal Service
church was incorporated, only one of the Decision Reverses a Recent
jo maie incorporators, jsaoei omitn, oe
Order of Federal Dis
trict Court
ing a communicant.
Early in October, 824, ground was
broken for a church edifice, and Oct. 18 of
the next year the building was conse
crated by Rt. Rev, Bishop Griswold. In
April, 1800, the foundations of a new
stone church were; laid, and July 25, 1861, , Boston, Oct. 18. The United States
the structure, was consecrated by Kt, Kcv circuit court of appeal ruled to-day that
John Henry Hopkins, bishop of the dio- members of the state militia are still in
cese. The cost when completed was $15,- service for federal military purpose not
000. The pipe organ now in the church withstanding their failure to take the
was placed there in 1881) at a cost of oath under the national defense act of
about $2,300. last Juno. The decision reverses the re
In the early 70's, the rectory was built, cent order of the federal district court,
and about 12 years ago? during the rec- The case is considered a test of the ap-
torship of HeV.-V. Hamilton Benham plication of the new law, upon which the
and largely through his efforts, a parish disposition of similar cases in other
house was erected. The rectorv cost $11,- states depends.
000 and the parish house $8,000. The coiwt's opinion, from -w hich Judge
Probably the onjy person in town who Putnam dissented, vacated the decree of
is a direct descendant of a founder of the lower court tinder which Alexander
the church is John F. Locke of South M. Emerson and Alfred P. Lowell, eaval
Main street, who; is fourth in descent I rymen, were released from military cus
from the family of John Nason. tody. Emerson had refused to take the
One of the former rectors. Rev. Wil- new oath and Lowell asserted that he
liam Hnry Hoyt, resigned his rectorate had subscribed to it under duress. They
to unite with the Roman Catholic church.
The church now lias 337 communicants.
Col. Charles S. Forbes was elected par
ish clerk in 1872 and with the exception
of one vear when he was absent from the
Innrish he has served in that canacitv.
were ordered returned to the military
authorities.
I. O.F. DELEGATES
SAW BARRE FIRST;
THEN WENT TO WORK
Annual Convention of the High Court of
Vermont and New Hampshire Is
Being Held Delegate Ten
dered Trip to Quarries.
GREEK ROYALISTS
MAKE PROTEST
TO AMERICA
DIED AT DOCTOR'S DOOR.
George Tewksbury Stricken WHile Rid
ing in Auto.
Groveton, N. H., Oct. 18. 3eorge
Tewksbury, aged 60 years, was stricken
with acute indigestion just outside the
village about noon yesterday and died
just as the oar drew up outside the office
of Dr. C. E. Right. He was returning
from Colebrook, where he and his wife,
his wife's sister and the lattcr's son had
spent Sunday.
Mr. Tewksbury , was an engineer on
the Boston & Maine and had been in the
service 35 years. He brought his train
into Groveton Saturday night and left
with his relatives for a few days' tour
through the northern' part of the state.
He complained of not feeling well and
the driver of the car made a race to
reach assistance, when it became evident
that his passenger was in a serious con
dition, but succeeded in reaching aid only
to have Mr. Tewksbury expire just as
the doctor came out of the door.
Mr. Tewksburv wa a resident of
Woodsille and was a favorite with rail
road men all along the division. The
bodv was taken in charge bv H. A. Trask
and will be sent to Woodsville for burial.
RUTLAND R. R.'S ANNUAL.
GER3IAN REPORTS
DESCRIBE GREAT
DAMAGE DONE
Say That Zeppelin Bombs Dropped on
England Sept. 23 Killed 400 Sol
diers in Barracks, Besides
Other Damage.
Berlin, via wireless, Oct. 18. Eye wit
nesses of the Zeppelin attack on England
Sept. 23 niort, according to the Over
seas agencv, that the bombs hit the
Grimsby barracks, kiling more than 400
foldiers, and that about HO men were
lulled on board a cruiser hit by the bomb.
It is said that Regent street, London,
was for the most part laid in rums, and
that in Liverpool a bridge and track were
fco badly damaged that it will be impos
sible to use them for some time. Several
benzo tanks near the river Thames were
damaged.
Great damage was inflicted on ammu
nition factories and railroad stations at
Jeeds: an alcohol factory and other
building at Portsmouth were struck,
and at Hull some buildings were so badly
damaged that only the walls remained.
Directors Were Elected at Stockholders'
Meeting in Rutland.
Rutland, Oct. 18. At the annual meet
ing of the Rutland railroad stockholders
held at the office in this city yesterday,
directors were elected as follows: How
ard Elliott, New Haven, Conn.; John T.
Pratt, New York;, T. DeWitt Cuvler,
Philadelphia; Alfred H. Smith, New
York York; George T. Jarvis, Rutland;
William Rockefeller, New York; E. G.
Buckland, New Haven; William H. New
man, New York; George F. Baker, New
ork; W. Seward Webb, Shelburne; P.
W. Clement and Edmund R. Morse, Rut
land ; Harold S. Vanderbilt, New York.
For the Addison railroad the following
directors were chosen : Alfred H. Smith,
W. II. Newman, W. K. vanderbilt, How
ard Elliott and George T. Jarvis.
Neither board organized. Of the 02,-
570 shares of Rutland railroad stock, 56,-
223 were represented and 4,058 shares of
Addison railroad stock voted out of a
possible 5,000. E. F. Stevenson of the
New York Central railroad attended the
meeting.
Against Landing of the Entente Allies'
Trops in Greece French Marines
Encamp Near the Royal
Palace.
Athens, Tuesday, via London, Wednes
day, Oct. 18. After a demonstration here
against the entente allies, during which
a procession of several thousand marched
to the American legation and protested
against the landing of French marines, a
delegation of six persons .called at the
American legation and presented resolu
tions asking the sympathy and protec
tion of the United States against the en
croachments of the entente powers. The
American minister, Garrett Proopcrs
promised to fclrward the petition to
Washington.
three hundred French marines were
transferred to-day from the municipal
theatre to positions on the grounds and
within 400 yards of the kings palace
They marched through the streets with
bayonets fixed and trumpets blowing,
WAS SHOWN CLEMENCY.
After Pleading Guilty to Pointing Re
volver at His Wife.
Middlebury, Oct. 18. A good deal of
interest was shown here yesterday aft
ernoon in a Cornwall case. Hermon
Wimmett was charged yith breach of
BOY DODGED AUTO
AND WAS KILLED
Louis Stratton, 8 Years Old, of Barton,
Was Trying to Round Up Cows
When Machine Came
Along.
Barton, Oct. 18. Louis Stratton, th
the peace, committed September 28, bv eight-year-old son ot .Mr. and Mrs. Urn
assaulting his wife by pointing a loaded Stratum of Lake street, was hit by an
gun at her six days after she had given "to owned and operated by C. P. Jen
birth to a child. -The neighborhood of n"s yesterday afternoon and instantly
Cornwall was much stirred up about the Kinea.
r - .1 Tl- . 1 1 e vr,
matter at that time. The case was heard 111,5 .v w,,g onving cows irom mui
hefor Mnnicinal .Tiidtfe James B. Bono- "reet to fclm street and at the wtersec
1 . . . U! 4 1 ... x- ;.i n . .
way and the respondent at first pleaded lmn """'is wun i.iover street
not guiltv, but later, bv advice of coun- U1B "ows s'-auered and in trying to round
sol Ira IT TjiFl.iir and Lerov S. Russell them up the boy dodged from behind a
of Middlebury, withdrew that plea and cow iust in tira 1 by the Jenncss
. - I ,. T. - ....... 1 . I. : a t.: i 1 r
pleaded guilty, "r um ump uu mm in me 1 ace
After representations by counsel for the " " .iwwmwnwun. nm-.su
respondent, whjch rase acquiesced in by ess " ""ving eiowiy ana ne
SYMPATHETIC M0RET0WN MAN.
Read of Boston Woman's Misfortunes
and Married Her.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Pres. Wilson Goes to Chicago.
Long Branch, N. J., Oct, 18. President
Wilson left here shortly before noon on
a trip to Chicago,
Cleveland Kelly of Boston, who was
formerly employed in Barre as a tele
graph operator, arrived in the city last
evening for a brief visit at the home of
his brother. John B. Kelly of Liberty
street. To-day he went to Burlington to
join Mrs. Kelly and son, who are to re
turn with him to Boston, after an extend
cd stay in Vermont.
Barre and Montpelier fandom are won
dcring whether Intercity park, famous as
a stamping ground for ermont and Nor
wich warriors in days of yore, is to be
the scene of any college football this
fall. Inquiry at the office of the Tenney
company reveals the information that
officials of the B. A M. T. 4 P. company
have boen approached concerning the use
of the ground, and the source of the in
quiries indicates that Norwich university
and the University of Vermont have their
eyes on the half-way field for one or two
and possibly three gridiron contests. It
is represented that the Norwich-Vermont
game is worth $700 more to the borne
team if it is played at Intercity instead
of on the Norwich parade ground, and
that if the same field is used for the
Norwich-Middlobury game, the revenue
will also be greater than at Northfield.
Norwich men are reported to favor the
i'lan to stage the games at Intercity.
Boston, Oct. 18. As a result of adver
tising for a husband four months ago,
Mrs. Viola A. Ling became engaged to a
man who fled from town on the day that
had been named for the wedding, leav
ng Mrs. Ling waiting at the church. But
this desertion was not without compen
sation, for the story, published in vari
ous newspapers, found its way to Robert
J. Bradley, Moretown, vt. It excited his
interest, caused him to write to her, then
to visit her, finally to marry her, and
last night Mrs. Bradley set off for More
town to join the man whose name she
bears.
Bradley, who is a wealthy farmer, mar
ried Mrs. Ling in East Boston last Sat
urday evening. The bride, who had been
living at 6 Ottawa street, Roxbury, had
some packing to do, and many good-bys
to say to friends. But Bradley had bus
iness interests which made it necessary
for him to return home at once. Mrs.
Bradley completed her preparations for
the journey yesterday morning and set
out for Vermont last night.
"I am the happiest woman in the
world," she explained to friends before
departing. "I have had my troubles, but
they are all ended now.
Four months ago she advertised in
the newspapers for a husband. One man
answered. He said he wanted a wife who
could cook, and Mrs. Ling invited him to
come to her home for a trial feast. He
feasted to his heart's content for two
weeks. Then on the day the two were
to be married, the man departed without
farewell.
The story of the woman's misfortune
was reported in the newspapers. Up m
the little town of Moretown. Vt.. Robert
Bradley, a widower, read it. He was
sympathetic and lonely.
So he sent an engagement ring and $20
to Mrs. Ling, tellinir her that if she
would place her faith in him she would
not be "left waiting at the church." The
courtship by mail progressed rapidly, and
last Thursday Bradley left his farm and
came to Boston.
First he bought the wedding ring. Then
he purchased the wedding gown, and he
gave his bride a new set of false teeth.
The marriage took place at 8 o'clock Sat
urday evening in the home of James
Fraser, 6 Macbeth street. East Boston.
Justice of the Peace Fraser performed
the ceremony and a score of friends
joined in the celebration which lasted
until midnight.
State's Attorney Allen R. Sturtevant,
Judge Donoway sentenced Wimmett to
serve not less than two nor more than
two years and a half at hard labor in the
house of correction in Rutland, but sub
pended sentence and imposed a fine of
$50 and costs of prosecution, the prison
sentence to hang over his head pending
AUTO BUCKED FRUIT TEAM.
Fruit Rolled on Street and Pleased the
School Children.
Gloomy thoughts of a resplendent au-
his good behavior for the extreme limit tumn forenoon to be spent inside crim
of the sentence, two years and a half, brick walls were pleasantly dispelled
The costs were paid and the young man, among -,a group of kindergarteners this
who is only 20 years of age, was set at morning on North Main street. It all
liberty.
CAME 300 MILES TO TESTIFY.
John F. Cooley's First Wife Came as Wit.
ness Against Him.
St. Albans, Oct. 18. John F. Cooler,
who has been in the Franklin county jail
several months, .pleaded guilty in court
yesterday afternoon to an information
filed against him by State's Attorney S.
S. Cushing, charging bigamy. Cooley's
arrest was made at Highgate about three
weeks after his marriage to Miss Ruth
Riley, a school teacher in that town, on
complaint of Violet Andrews, who
claimed she was marr;d to Coolev at
Rochester, N. Y., in August, 1915.
After the Andrews woman came to this
city she was committed to jail in default
of $300 bail as an important witness in
the case against Cooley. It was claimed
by the state that it had been learned the
Andrews woman never was married to
Cooley, but eloped with him from Kam
bops, B. C, to Rochester, N. Y., where
they lived as man and wife for some
time, although Cooley had a wife living
n Vancouver. Habeas corpus proceed
ings were brought last September before
I nited States Judge H. B, Howe of St.
Johnsburv to secure the release of the
Andrews woman from jail, but the wom
an was not released.
Cooley's wife, a pretiy young Scotch
woman, whom he married in .May, r.11.1,
came here a few davs asio from her home
in Frasier's Mills, B. C, 3.000 miles away,
o testify against him if necessary. It
is understood that the Andrews woman
will be deported.
KNOCKED DOWN BY SHOT
Ernest Hutchinson returned this morn
ing from Springfn-ld, Mass., where he has
been attending the national dairy show.
According to Mr. Hutchinson the wind
blew with such terrific force yesterday
that tents on the exhibition grounds
were blown away, and 5.000 people under
one canvas top bad narrow escapes from
injury when the wind suddenly lifted the
roof from the retaining poles.
But Was Only Slightly Wounded About
Face.
Rutland. Oct. 18. John Smith, who
lives in Clarendon near the West Rut
land line, was arrested yesterday on the
charge of assault with intent to kill on
the complaint of John Saboloski, a farm
hand employed by l.eon F. Chapman of
West Rutland, whose story, if true, indi
cate that Smith's dooryard was the
scene of a near murder Sunday evening.
Saboloski bears on his head near his left
temple a flesh wound an inch and a half
long which, he pays, was made by a bul
let from a revolver fired bv Smith.
According to Saboloclii, Smith invited
him to the latter's place Sunday after
noon to do some work. They had a chat
at Smith's house. Smith apparently 1
happened when an Overland roadster
driven by C. E. Searles, local agent for
the Lunt-Moss company, crashed into
fruit team in charge of Henry Poli, just
as the peachman was about to swing into
the I'asserini & Honardi bakery. The
collision sent a golden avalanche of red
apples, lemon cling peaches and early
September melons rolling directly into
the path of the cynical kindergarteners.
Of course the children graciously fore-
bore to rescue the rolling truit!
Some of the gloom that left Young
America with such surprising dispatch
when the fruit shower came must have
been transmitted to the peach man. He
was thrown to the pavement, and the
horse, loaing its footing in the shuffle,
joined the master on the ground. Mr.
Poli surveyed with a rueful glance the
ruin wrought by the auto and had a good
deal to say about the practice of driving
in the car tracks. A policeman who in
vestigated the accident gave it as his
opinion that the driver of the auto and
the fruit dealer each mistook the other's
intentions. The fruit wagon was so bad
ly damaged that it will be replaced bv
another rig for a few davs, but Mr.
Searles' Overland emerged from the hook
in with nothing "more than a jammed
mudguard.
Mr. Poll himself got a few wrist
scratches, and the horse, reaching its
feet, seemed bent on making a prompt
escape from the madding crowd that had
gathered, when a bystander, remembering
an old-time, tried and true recipe for
stopping horses that threatened to run
away, firmly grabbed the animal's nose
until Mr. Poll could exercise his rights as
proprietor and driver.
Vermont and New Hampshire Fores
ters to the number of 500 wore present
last, evening at the first session of the
high court convention, which was held in
the Scampini block hall on North Main
street. Edward J, Cuuiminga of Littli
ton, N. H., chief ranger of the twin-state
high court, presided at the meeting and
upward of 150 delegates from out ol
town were present to be received by
members of tho Independent Order ot
Foresters' court in Barre. This forenoon
was given over to a trip through one of
the large granite cutting plants here in
the city and- to the quarries, special
transportation privileges on the Barre &
Chelsea railroad having been reserved by
the Barre Board of Trade.
This afternoon the delegates returned
to the hall to transact some of the bus
iness that has accumulated since the last
annual convention. At 5:30 o'clock this
afternoon an oyster supper will be served
in Howland halt and at 8 o clock to-night
there will be a public meeting in tho
same hall. Among the entertainers slat
ed to appear are Harry Lloyd, a well
known Canadian comedian; Mrs. Edward
J. Cummings, a mezzo-soprano, and Har
old Tromblev, a tenor from New Hamp
shire. Interest centers largely around an
ddresa to be given by George A. Mitch
II of Toronto, Ont., who is to speak on j
Real Fraternity as a Test." Mr. Mitch-
11 is assistant vice-supreme ranger of
the. Independent Order of Foresters, ami
n orator of note in Canadian fraternal
circles. Business matters will occupy the
attention of the delegates and officers to
morrow afternoon and after tho election
of offices in tho afternoon adjournment
ill be taken.
At 8:30 o'clock this morning a special
train chartered bv the Board of Trade
pulled into the M. & W. R. station. Prob
ably 250 Foresters, some of them with
their wives, were awaiting the arrival of
tho train. All were looking forward
with apparent eagerness to the tour
through Barre's great industryand when
the trainmen gave the signal the crowd
clambered briskly aboard. Jones Bro.
granite plant in the north end was the
destination. A number of Board of
Trade members, including the president
and secretary, accompanied the Foresters
and at Jones Bros.' competent guides
were; ready to show the visitors all the
multitudinous details that enter into the
work of preparing Barre granite for the
market. After the train had completed
the winding trip up Millstone hill, quarry
owners showed the visitors every cour
tesy and repeated the warm welcome ex
tended them at Jones Bros.' To most of
the visitors, some of whom came to the
convention from far corners of Vermont
and New Hampshire, the tour through
the granite belt brought to them an en
tirely new conception of the magnitude
of Barre's industry' and they were not
at all slow in expressing their surprise.
Quarries on both sides of the hill were
visited and it was notm before the train
returned to the citv.
Much work of a preliminary nature
was accomplished at the opening session
last night. A social hour gave the dele
gates and local Foresters an opportunity
for getting acquainted with each other
and it was nearly 9 o'clock before a brief
program of speechmaking began. Inter
esting remarks concerning the mission of
the Independent Foresterd were made by
L. Kinney of New lork, superintend
ent of field work, who has charge of the ;
work in Vermont. Mr. Kinnev enlarged
upon the necessity for developing the
field and urged upon his audiences the
need for co-operation. High Chief Rang
er Ctimmings supplemented Mr. Kinney'a
inspirational work with an appeal for
united effort in the move to spread the
influence of the order throughout? Ver
mont and New Hampshire. One of the
interesting features of the gathering
was the exemplification of degree work
bv the guard of honor and the roval
guard of Berlin, N. H.
CITY PLANS TO
BUY SANDBANK
Expects There Is Enough in
Parker Sidehill to Last
Several Years
PRICE AGREED ON
DEED PREF &ED
V
Health Officer ' Sports 25
Births and I)eaths
in Seplc-jnber
MANY FRIENDS ATTENDED.
HARRIGAN HENEY.
showing no ill will against his isitor.
No work was suggested, so Saboloski
started to go home. Smith followed him
out of the hou?e and ju"t as the visitor
was turning out of the front gate Smith,
who was about 20 feet behind, called to
him to wait, Sabol
then, as the storv goes. Smith drew a
revolver from his porke. and fired once.
The shock from the bullet km-k.-d the
victim down, but he was able to regain
his feet and walk away.
Montpelier Girl the Bride of Northfield
Business Man.
Miss Anne M. Heney, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Arthur Heney of 2.17 Main
street, Montpelier, was united in mar
riage to John Harrigan of Northfield, son
of Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Harrigan. at
St. Augustine's church in Montpelier this
morning t 8 o clock. The bride was at
tended by her sister. Miss Emma S. Hen
ey. and the groomsman was George 1.
Pitkin. The wedding march was played
by Miss Claire Lynch.
The bride was gowned in while taffeta,
with crepe draping and silver trimming
together with Irish-point lace for yoke.
She wore a coral k and silver hat and
carried a shower bouquet of roses. Ifer
Kister, the bridesmaid, wore orchid taf-
Funeral of Mrs. 0. D. Shurtleff Held at
Her Late Home.
A large number of friends gathered at
the home of Alderman 0. D. Shurtleff
on North Main street yesterday after
noon to attend the funeral of Sirs. Shurt-
ff who died Sunday morning. The rooms
were filled with people when the service
began at 2 o'clock. Rev. J. B. Reardon,
pastor of the Universalist church, offiei-
ted. The bearers were r . 1 . l utlcr,
illiam Ellis, Edward Fuller, Homer
Fuller, Arthur Cole and James Riley. In
terment was in Elmwood cemetery.
Among those from ont of town who at
tended the service were Mr. and Mrs.
Martin Hicks of Fairfax.
FUNERAL OF EUNICE SMITH.
Was Held from the Home of Her Mother
Yesterday Afternoon.
The funeral of Miss Eunice IX Smith,
who died Sunday at the home of her
mother. Mrs. Isabella D. Smith on Elm
street, was held at 2:30 yesterday after
noon at the house, there being many
friends in attendance. Rev. J. YV. Bar-
nett. pastor of the Congregational church,
was the officiating clergyman. Interment
was in the family lot in r.lmwooij eeme
tery. the bearers being James S. Wilson,
Krnnk L. Small. Dean IT. Perry and Al
bert O. Smith, the last-named a brother
of the deceased. There were many floral
tributes.
TWO FEDERAL CASES.
W. T. Jackson i spending
in Burlington on business.
feta with silver trimmings and had a
black picture hat. Rev. P. J. Long was
the officiating clergyman.
After the wedding the party went to
the home of the bride, where a wedding
breakfast was served, and Mr. and Mrs.
ki looked back and I Harrigan then left for a wedding tour.
On their return they will reside on Cen
tral street in Northfield, where the
groom is engaged in mercantile business
under the name of Duke A Harrigan.
The bride has been employed for some
vears in the tore of A. H. Temple of
.Montpelier and u
lady in that city.
few days
A gravel bank adjacent to Cable and
Bank streets and near to the spot on
Maple avenue where much of the street
department's rolling stone has been
mined in the past is to become the prop
erty of the city as the result of recom
mendations brought in by the street com
mittee and action thereon taken at the
regular meeting of the city council last
evening. A deed to be furnished by Earl
E. Parker describes at length the bounds
of the gravel deposit and a selling prico
of $7.10 is to be named. In rqortin'g fa
vorably on the proposal to purchase, Al
dermen Glysson and Rossi, who made a
careful investigation of the land, gave it
as their opinion that gravel enough for
many years to come will aecrue to the
city in the deal. When the city clerk
read the proposed deed Aldermen Rey
nolds and Rossi engaged in a brief lexi
cographic debate over the delicate shad
ings and Minting involved in the use of
tho words would and could, but the dif
ferences of opmion were nuieklv and
amicably settled and in the main the
council was unanimous in advocating the
purchase.
Just as soon as a legal agreement con
veying to the Barre & Chelsea railroad
the use of a small strip of land near En
terprise alley is completed, the council
will give its full consent to the extension
of an air testing track in the B. & C.
freight yards. The street committee re
ported its investigations of the proposed
turnout and said that certain persona
were desirous of having the alley road
extended from its present terminus to
Depot square. Supt. A- A. Stebbins and
Engineer Watson explained that such an
extension is impossible and then the con
versation reverted to the testing track
nq conditions that must be met in
planking the crossing at the turnout.
While the agreement is in the hands "of
the city attorney the railroad people will
proceed with their plans for the exten
sion. '
Petitioners praying for an improve
ment of sidewalk conditions on the Gran
ite street hill and repairs to the Granite
street bridge were well represented in the
person of John S. McDonald, who gave
the council a tabloid history of what
folks living on the west side of the river
have had tn contend with in negotiating
the hill. It was represented that condi
tions of team traffic have obliviated all
signs ot a sidewalk on the hill and that
occasional floods have wrought havoc
with the bridge. The petitioners asked
that the floor of the bridge be raised to
a level higher than the street and that a
sidewalk be erected. The street commit
tee was instructed to inquire carefully
into the needs of pedestrians in that vi
cinity and to report. Incidentally, it was
decided to post a notice at either end of
the bridge warning teamsters to use the
structure one at a time, a move which
is calculated to forfend accidents on a
bridge that has been condemned and also
to improve walking conditions for pe
destrians. Complaints concerning the alleged prac
tice of Barre & Chelsea railroad train
men in holding up traffic on the Pros
pect street crossing were received and
referred to Supt. Stebbins before he left
the council chamber. Complainant
claimed that delavs encountered by
teams and pedestrians are due to the
custom of weighing the cars without
"breaking" the trains. Supt. Stebbins
said that the trainmen had instructions
to "break" the trains south of Prospect
street in order to keep the crossing clear
and that any failure to comply with the
order was an infraction of the rules. He.
promised to improve conditions in that
neiehborhood.
There were 25 births in September, ac
cording to the report of HeaKh Officer
Dr. J. W. Stewart, 15 of the babies being
males. Cases of measles numbered two
and whooping cough eight. Seven deaths
were duo to the following causes: An-
thritis deformans 1, angina pectoris 1.
cancer 1. cholera infantum 1. disease of
the bowels 1, meningitis 2. The report
was accepted.
Two months previous, in July, there
were 48 arrests in the pnlice department,
according to Chief Sinclair's report. The
cases were classified as follows: Intoxica
tion 32. breach of the peace 8. operating
autos without lights 3, assault with in
tent to kilt 1. keeping house of ill f.ime
1, furnishing 1. larceny 1. operating an
auto carelessly 1. The report was accepted.
Building permits were gTanted the fol
lowing applicants: W. O. Reynolds, to
cover root at soiitli .Mam sircei;
Mary J. Durkce estate, to cover roof at
3l North Main street: Mitchell David,
to reshingle at 73 granite street; T.e.lair
Jt McNulty. to cover roof on Blaikwetl
street; V.'ti. Canton, to remodel roof at
370 North Main street; ft. L. Crogware.
to build garage at 1 Newton street; Mrs.
Maggie Pnineau. to build a bouse addi
tion at 115 Hjook street; h. C. Wells, to
build a garage at East Mreet: Jone
Reed, to build cement steps on ortli
i
Brought for Alleged Breaking of United
States Laws.
Rutland. Oct. 18. Deputy Marshal
Whittaker arrested two men yesterday
who were indicted by the federal grand
jury a few weeks ago. Both Postmaster
Austin W. Phelon of Dorset and Ernest iMain street. The inspector's September
E. Keefe of Bellows Fall., a rural de- j report, referring to 3!' minor permits is
livery carrier, secured bail. jsued. was aecepTed.
It is claimed by the government that Wiring permit went to the following
Mr. Thelon embezzled fund belonging to j applicant-: W. '. Quinlen Co to wire
the government, also that he took from j lodging house: l.ouis IVBIois, lights in
the mails three packages. "The man was (Maple avenue house; Co-operative com
hrought to Rutland and arraigned before I pan'v. hall light on Granite street; M.
Unites! States Commissioner Thomas H. j 15. I.. P. Co.. three meter; D. M.
Browne. j Miles Co.. light for roal yard and bam.
Mr. Keefe is charged with having kept i E. A. Drown asked permission to in
very popular oung ' f h.i'.i and an application for a money
order.
(Continued, ca feartlt f ic;
