VOLUME XXXII- LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1916.
-o NU
CROWDS [XP[CT[D
FOR AMMAL FAIR
Preparations Being Com
pleted' Rapidly
MANY PREMIUMS
ARE OFFERED
G'rand Stand, Aretna and Stalls nre
Bapidiy Going ip and will be in
Readiness for Exhibits, Exhibitors
and Visitors. Swine Department to
be Large.
With the county fair but several
days off, preparations are rapidly be..
Tng completed to take care of the ex
hibits, exhibitors and visitors. Car
penters have been busy getting the
grandstand, arena and stalls in con
dition for the annual event and long
before the time arrives for the exhlbi
tion to begin all preparations will have
been completed.
As in past years, the fair will be held
in the - Uarlingtou Meadow, an ideal
place for it. Ample space will be left
for buggies, automobiles, wagons, or
any other kind of traveling vehicle and
the indications are tha the crowds
will take up a large pat of the space
alloted to them.
The premliun list is printed In an
other section of this paper. While, as
in past. years, premiums are not allot
ed for every entry, some premiums are
being held back for distribution among
noteworthy exhibits and other pre
miums will be transferred where there
are no entries. It is thought, there
fore, that every worthy exhibit will re
ceive recognit ion in the way of a pro
imium.
"armn )elaonst ration Agent P. W.
Moore states for the benefit of the
Ilioys Pig (1111 men bers of tilt) Couniy
that he wants as many of them Is: pos
$ible to take advantage of the County
Fair to show what they have done this
year in this work. The managers o'
the fair promise to take care of all cx
hibits of the boys, and prizes will he
offered for the best. lie also w1an1ts
Laurens County represented at the
State Fair with one or two flne exhib
Its from the boys. These can be crat
ed and shipped direct to Columbia
from the grounds. The boys should
see or phone Mr. Moore for further in
formation.
To many the annual fair has come to I
be an occasion when stock can be sold
or exchanged. This year the indica
tions are that more actual trallc of
this kind will be carried on than ever
biefore, esplecially in the pig line. All
' those who have blooded stock of any
kind to sell would do well to have it
at the fair where it can be shown to
large numbers of people.
Secretary C. A. Power is now receiv
Ing applicalit.n:s for entry blanks. lie
w'ill hbe glad to furnish the mnto all
those who ask for them, li'e has made
a special req nest. Ihat entrios be made
a early as possible, so that none nill
lbe b):trrai from thle in g.
The judges tihis ye:'r willI be all Lau
rens couln ty inen0. They have not been
annoimoneed yet, lbut it !s assured thai
lthe:y will lbe an~ imparial and caple -(
set of mell.
Laurens wvill thrnow its gates wide
open F'ridiay and1( every body is welcome
to the city. Outside of a fewv little re
strlctions t) be placed on reckless
drivIng, the freedom of tile city wvillI
'e given to all the visitors. The re
strictions on reckless driving are iln
tended)( for' thle Protection of ali.
F'illowing thle r'egular' exhibits in
the arena, a foot- ball game will lbe
tinyedi in thle a fterlnooln bet ween Ithe
LairIens andi A nder'sona high schIools.
N ' aid missioni ,u wilw becha rgedl to Ite
I> attndl it. Thle gamie promlflitss 10
lie anu 'ex'ling one1.
i,it'ie Ge'orge M1oore ien.
Afler' an itinesa of several days, lit
tie Gehorge Moore, the I8 months old
ston of Mr.. andi .\rs. .1. Waler Mbore,
died eal'y Tlhursday morning. The body .
was laid to rest Thursday afternoon in
the Prospect cemetery, llev. . II.
Templeman conducting the funeral
services. The paronts of this little
child, having him with them "tnly lorig
enaoudt to become deeply endea red.,
have ''c symnpnitby of ianiy friends in
their sorr'ow. 1
FORMER LAURENS MAN WAS
KILLED IN MISSISSIPPI
Rloyce Wolff Shot by Negro Employe
Body Brought Back IRome for Burial,
the Exercises of Which Were Con.
ducted at Ilabun Sunday Afternoon,
Boyce E. Wolff, eldest son of Mr.
nd Mrs. John H. Wolff, of the Shiloh
section of this county, met a tragic
:loath at his home at Lobdell, Miss.,
last Thursday, when he was shot and
killed by a negro farm hand because
:f an alleged misunderstanding a --t
the work of the negro's wife. In his
flight, after fatally shooting Mr. Wolff,
the negro desparado seriously wound
ad the old colored cook and shot three
negro nien on the place, according to
details of the tragedies brought to
Laurens County by Mrs. Wolx and
ether members of the funeral party.
News of the killing of Mr. Wolff was
received in Laurens Thursday after
noon, Mrs. \Volff, wife of the deceased,
sending a telegram to this effect to
Mr. John H1. Wolff, father of !er late
husband. In the great sorrow thus
suddenly thrust upon the young wife,
the parents and the large family con
nection, as well as hundreds of
friends in this section, all have the
deep sympathy of the peol)ie of ,:iu
rena.
The body of .1r. Wolff, aiccoiipanie'd
by Mirs. Wolff, her sister and one or
Iwo friends from her home, arrived in
Greenville S'atiurday afternoon. .em
bers of the family and several frie'nds:
met the party in the .\ountain (Ciit
rid escorted the reiliains to the form
er home of the young man, the trip
being mate by automiiobilc convey
ane. Sunday afternoon the fue cral
lind burial services were held at ilabun
reekl church, the exercises being con
diictled by the llev. T. W. Mlinnerlyn
:ad Rlev. .John It. Washington, both
of Gray Court. It is said to have been
one of the most largely attended iun
raiIs ever held at llahun.
Mr. Wolff was shot as he stood just
Inside the yard fence,- the negro- be
ig on the outside. It seems that Ihe
wife of the alleged muridere ; had re
'used to pick cotton in a ceriain see
li')m) designated by M1r. WolfT and had
rtlilt work, at the same time lemand
ing a setIlement. Mr. Wolff explained
that he would pay off Saturday as us
ual. The woman carried her griev
nice to her husband. Shortly after
ward lie came to the house, ealled Mr.
Wolff out and demanded payment for
ils wife's work. Again Mr. Wolff re
fused, whereiupon the negro drew a
pi5 tol and shot his employer through
he head, death ensuing in a few mo
rnents.
As the negro fled from the scene of,
lhe tragedy it seems that lie passed
iy the colored cook who was picking
:'of.tott near the house, and shot and
curiously wounded her, saying that she
would not tie left to tell anything
bMoit the former Iragedv, she evident
y having witnessed the shooting of
ir. Wolff. Oillcer.., aided by a posse
f cltizens aiid bloo~dhiounds friomi the
state finm, nearil by; at ence' look iy
bie, trait of the negr'o. In) the tril
l te fugitive thriough~t lie d 'It. -hriee
tde of n1 iegiocs were f ounad. all he
loved "victlis of Ithi' deadly ;rot of'
lie diesieirado. At haut :iaiiiuts the
iegio had not been apprehenided,
ige. -e veralI yearis ago lie gradiuateod
id 'rt enirn ('ollege, lakiing the ag
'hailltiural couirse. Foir a few years af
(ei giraduiiation lie was em ployed In thle
igr'iciilturiiah delpartiment at WashIng
oii, andl later lie was sent out west to
iaiiage an oxperoimeiintal fairmi stat ion
o' the gover'nmnt. lie snceeded so
rol I that lie soon aIttracted 01 tie tten'
ion of a large lplateri by3 whom lhe
v'as emiloyedo to supoerinitend a big
le;ta i cuintation', loat fo rt
mloyoed a ai;ei numbler' of neoe s in
he~ opleration (of Ithe' farm.~i :mt thbe no
'i)V'trowh shot lim0 hiad bieen tiruste(d as
t'oremni !t is saidi.
Abouit foiir years' ago Mr. W',olff imar
'eld MIst Zallie Brinker', formeily of
'est. Pomt, Miss., the wedding taking
mlaoe in Washington, D). tC.
1onnuet Meetings Open to Rleporters.
At the meeting of City Connell held
iginday night, a resolution was intro
lutLed by Alderman J. D). Watts and
'assed allowing newspaper reporters
he privilego of attending and report.
nt. t he moeethuy t
AFFIDAVITS SURMITTED
BY W. R. RICHEY, Ji1.
'ilteIate to Allegations of Fraud and
Corruption in Rtecent Primary Elec
tion,
V. It. Rtichey, -Jr., member of the
State Democratic Executive Committee
from this county, has furnished The
Advertiser a number of the affidavits
which he asked to have investigated
by the committee at its meeting fol
lowing the second primary election
and on which he based his allegations
of fraud and corruption in the pri
mary. Mr. Richey states that these
are only a few of a laige number of
atlidavits which he had In his hands at
that time. They are as follows:
State of South Carolina,
i-aurens County.
Personally camie before me 13. R.
Todd who, first being duly sworn, says
that he is a resident of Laurens coun
ty, South Carolina and besides being a
farmer is engaged in the cvil engi
nceriig business and resides about five
miles north-west of Laurens Court
louse at or near larksdale Station in
Laurens County, South Carolina: that
on or about September 91 ii, 1916, S'atu r
day before the second primnry, he was
a visitor in the City of Greenville, S.
C., and while in Greenville was ap
proachcd by one .loe Robertson, , ho is
a barber by trade; that on said date
the said .Joe Robertson a pp roached
this depinic t as aforesaid and ol(]'
thi deponein. that he had $22,000.00
that he was going to spend in buying
voles foe Riclard I Manning for gov
erno' and asked this deionent if he
knew where he could place $3,000.00
or $ ,0nu.i' of .;aid tuoney in Liaurens
ounlty to lo used in buying votes for
Govelnor .\lanning; ihis dce ponen t was
very inutl hi atrprised at Ile enoll-inious
alnounI of nmoney which the said .Oe
HobertIson muen tionled and thioughit he
was joking in reference to the amount.
hut he was afterwards coivineed and
varily believes that the said .Joe Rtob
ertson had said amnou1nt of money and j
intended to snend it in the interest of
Ghvernor .\lanning that. depo'enIt be
ennme very iuch incensed at this of
Ier of bribery aind expressed himself t
in n1o uineel'Iain torms and a inlol olth
er thinn s told the said .1oe lobertsoni
that he could not speak for the wholi
of the county uht. that. he would give
hiin to distinelly understand that lie
could not place it with him.. deionedit
and that ho didn't. think he could place
it. at all in Laurs 15 county for as a
general rule Laurens County voters
didn't belong to that class whose votes
cotild be bought ; that the said .loc.
Itobertson thereupon staled that ihe
had bought votes in the Past and that
he was going to spend this $22.,000.00
in buyinig votes for Governor .\lanning
in the election on September 12, 1916.
hi. It. ''Ob).
Sworn and subscribed to before ne
this 1Ith day of October, 1916.
O. G. Thompson,
.1. P. I. C.
6 CN K 11 Collect
Aiken, S. C., 10:20 AM Sept. 19. 1916
Cole L. Illease, Columbia, S. C.:
Will ftruiish vote buying by Mal
ning people in Aiken county.
I. M. C. Oliveros,
1Master Aiken County. 10: :6 AM
Dillon, S. V., Sep. 12.
Cole 1.. Illease,
Cola, S. C.
Manning eleven sixty three I lease
one thousand and ten could not comi
bat the money votes sold op1enly.
W. Murchison. W1ic'i Innis .
Stt of Suth1( Camrla,
nfteri beingc duily sworn Say:;: we v(ow
at Uarnueis in Rltihland ('ony. The
wer'ie '97 votes I ol led Ih Is '. The~ Iln
vlopeulis in whliichi the 'iis w'ire put
boux withlomil be'ini' il. diin be iln
v .'opeis. After the toIn. :'2 ~
were0('111 c ie In bo1th Sla,, and Ie iuan
ty boxes. lIn the county box there weree
97 vote;. In the state b;ox lthey' (only3
comunted I 6. We cdimandced that they
b''e ecounlte~f w ihieewas idn but the
ilacr (cou111 madehl. After' thlis was clone
we loked fcor thme. missingm vol(e and
siting' biied undcecr the sand. It was
not. in aii envie lope and14 wa. 'for Gov.
hllease. W' cdemiandedi thati it lie
(counitedit th r i'viefused. sayiing it. wasi1
all btter' against Gcov. lleaise.
TI'IO.\AS JDt iIUDY.
SorniII lobefore iml this 21h d1a' (of
State of South ariniia,
(Coun1ty of IDaril igtoni.
Personally appleared befor'e me .1.
Coyt Gainly wholc on his oath says (that
one WV. A. Summer, manager' of saId
election held at Iiairtsville, 5. C., clidi
take from Ils pants plocket several
tIckets east today at said eiletin antd:
he on lils oath says the t one it' sahl
tickets which 'ias a ate tlcht wvas
counted In said ballot.
J, COY'T (GAJ'T Y.
Swvorn to benrernc t ibi , ii' am
of Sept.; 1916. A. D.
A. Eugene Davis,
Not. Pub, for S. C.
Estelle, S. C., Sept. 12, 1916.
lon. Cole L. Blease,
Cola, S. C.
Managers here opened box after
election started allowed voter to take
vote from one box and put in another.
E. A. Zeigler.
State of South 'Carolina,
County of Greenville.
Personally appeared before me
Boyce littlefield, Bill Timmons and
Marvin laittlelleld, who on being duly
sworn said they are residents o; Greer,
and that the saidl Boyce Littlefield is
a qualified elector and votes at Victor
Mills at Greer, S. C., that the said
Marvin Littlelleld and Bill Timmons
are qualified electors and vote at the
Greer voting precinct, and that on the
121h day of September, 1911, they each
and all of them were approached by
lied. Littllleild, lien 11tletleid and
Ilosey Landford in the oullce of Greer,
S. C and offered whiskey and money
to cast their ballot. for Itichard I.
Manning for Governor in'tead of Cole
1.. llease and that all three of the
above named accepted the whiskey
from ied Littlelleld and Ilosey Land-1
ford and that the !bl lill 'i'lmmions
and Btoyce Littlefield aecepted money.
lien Litlietield paying the said Ilill
'immons one dolar and llid liittcfield
paid Bloyce 11ittleied two dollars, all
of which was paid and accepted for the
sole purpose of intimidating and buy
ing their ballots for Ilichard I. a\lan
ning for Governor, and they were of
fered more money by the said Ben i1it
tlelield, bitd l.ittlefield and Ilosey
Lanidford for any votes which Ihey
might secure for Manning. ''he said
Marvin 1ittletlell, 1111 'Ti'mmons and
Ioyce Itilefiel(d, make this statement
of telir own free will and accord and
without the offrr of any compcnsation.
.\MARlVIN lalTI'ialc1,101,0.
1H1M, 1'I.\l.\IONS.
Sworn to beforu mue thills Sept. 1:th,
1916. .lames Ii. Price,
N. 'l. S. C.
1te of S'outlh Carolina,
'ounty of Gr ee~nville.
I'i(sonally (aide before me G. 0.
.lohnson who upon being duily swornl
says: lthat. he i. a riesient of tle city
and count, 2f Greenville, State of
South (arolinla, and is a qualified vot
er and legally enrolled upon the club
rolls of Ward live, )emocratic Club,
of the City of Greenville. That on the
moiring of Tue1sday, September 2th,
916, deioineut was apprloncied by one
.1. I. \\'est who displayed to himi iuarlk
(d couin!y and State l(lm'ocratic P'ri
matry 1i:.!'is for second pri mary; that
the said .1. I. West. did pay to the de
p(nint (. 0. .1ohnson, the stum of 'T'wo
I)olIars ($2.00) In legal currency ol
the ('nited States of Aiei'lea to be his
in consider:ti: n of the easting of these
ballots as ' .irked, which ballots and
oaId Money is hereto attached.
G. 0. .101INS'ON.
Swmorn to and subscribed to before
mne this 15th (lily of Sept. A. ). 1916.
Eingene Pollard,
Notary Public for S. C.
I furtlier certify that the attached
two one dollar bills and the State and
Coiunty tickets hereto attached are the
ones that deponent above atltached to
this allidavi'.
(liven under may hand and seal this
1Sth day of Seltemher, 1916.
Eugene Pollard,
Notary iP'utli for S. C.
t of Fonth .(Carolina,
(env.ille C'ounty,*
l'irsoniailly appnereds b''tefoie mue ..
ii. 1li'ietbree wh on 0' athI says t hat iin
S:.aiurthl nt! , tl*. ", of Sept. 191i,
S)ir. .l. (. .\liie; a '':n i moe In .\c
I all's lh'aiu c"r' . a ted to tme
ii e it0tii to 'lin liiii:. ' handedl m l'ulive
.I timan.4 In )epie, I it exet you5 tio
lie w ii ot . ile .tate uarthat thet
P'ledmiont box and didn't wor k for .\an
inig and voitd fi or I lease.
Sworni to anrd subscraiiibed bef'ore tme
thIs Sept. 1. th,. 1911;.
N. P., S. C'.
State oif Suouthi C'arolina,
P'ersoinally appiearied G'. WV. htutledge,
whou heIn duoly aworni says lhe is a:i
roil (iof, trandon Democuri'at Ie C'lubati ii
an Tueithy ti, Sepit, I :;h, .1916, lhe was
fipproached(( by one lIirviey I'leter it
11randon preintet tiollirng place ini
(mceenilf'e (Colnty an'd that the' sidu
I hirvey lFtct(''-r didl lV( 'a.'deanent oine
101lIari and a markelnd hal lot. th Ioney~i~
to lbe his in eonisiderrat ion for vut~ig
ra Id hallo (t it thle seeonid d1emocrat Ic
primtairy being hueld on Otthat day13; t hatI
Ste bal lot was to be cast foru 1 leha rd
1. MannIng for GIoveirnor' andl had the
namioe Colo L. Uilease scratchedl off.
Swor'n to be'foreO mel, 1'iii day of
;iof. A. D. 1916.
13. F'. I{amnud,
N. P. s. C.I
TFicket an scratched attached to affi
lavit
W. H. DRUMMOND DEAD.
Passed A way at bis Home in Lanford
Tuesday Night. Buried Wednesday.
Mr. W. .I, Drummond, whose serious
illness was mentioned in the last issue
of this paper, died at his home in Lan
ford last Tuesday night, following a
stroke of apoplexy. Mr. Drummond
had been in declining health for sev
eral months and the end was not un
expected. The funeral services were
held the following day at the Lanford
Baptist. church, being conducted by
11ev. 1. N. Kennedy, pastor of the A.
11. P. church at Ora. One of the larg
est crowds ever assembled in that
conunity, attended the funeral ser
vices.
Mr. I)rununond was in the 62nd year
of his age and up until a few mouths
awo was in robust health. lie went to
altliir ore for treatment several
nionths ago and on his return was een
sider'ed bet ter. The collapse camne
Mioiday followIng soine strenuous ex
erti se looking after business interests.
AIr. rtnini ond is survived by his
wife, who was a liss lRogers, and the
following sons and daughters: Toy,
Charles, Willie, James, Frank and
Sainu(I )mi nond; Mrs. .1. W. Ilen
derson, .\rs. L~ouis Anderson, Mlrs. T.
1.. W. Bailley and Mirs. C. P. Vincent.
lie also leaves two widowed sisters.
lrs. .1. A. .\lartin and rs 0. .J. Fow
Ier.
Alr. 1)rununond was a man of str11
ing worth and ;;really honored in his
c(ontmnity and state. lie was a metn
her and active worker in the lIaptist
n:day Utool !eabeir. I IV ook :
great deal of interest in the spiritual
and ((In ational welfare of his comn
liinity. Hle was a Mason and \\'ood
lilan and took much interest in fra
ternal affairs. lie will he 'vea lly
,ii sed in bli.; colmraunlity.
:(0011) PRItCES y01(lt
('O'"'ON .\NI) COTTON SEED
Cotton Yesterday Brought, the hikJhest
Price Paid In Forty Years.
('orton yesterday brought the higlh
est price that has been pli for short
staple in forty years or Inon, the local
Inarket closing Tuesday a 'Jernoon at
17 13-16.
The price of cotton reed advanced
to $3 tle hundred weight. or $60 a ton,
which is also a record over the high
prilces Iltat have obtained this season
for this i nportant, product. Mlr. I). 1I.
Todd, whose card appears in today's
Issue of the paper, is the dealer who
offers the fancy price for seed on the
local market.
Deat ht of Mars. Jas. WV. oyd.
The friends in Newherry and Lau
rens counties, and other portions of
the state, will be sorry to learn of
the death yesterday- morning of .\Mrs.
.Jas. W. loyd, at. her home in St.
.loseph, lissouri. Mrs. . 11. I vans of
Kinards receiVed a telegram .\londay.
the 1thi1, fromi lr. loyd, conlveying
th sa1d news.
\lr'. PIlyd is a niative of' Lauitrens
lege. i'h1ortly afteir gr'adulainga li
liarrtied .\iss i'anih Sharpe'~ of .\
bevillf', and fthey mo\d toIf St. 'OJolh.
.\o., wher'e hie has i se 11f~ toI dlisfine.
ioni at the hari. Thi . have oni v (Pne
cil i , .l s I a' g eh,a of 'h iaiwhc
t \lr state slii's l ('brothe in a\r \ie'.sl11
liiloyd (o iloSiteila a phre.d, i'i.l
.1010 1ayld eGo tue to-he 'ole
Tat ith 'uiestiol fSI onteitution
alit of lih' gllsot--month hiaws wlih
lth otat suof rme urt ion a1 dici''sion
hned down Sturdaypoit upof l wiitill
tobabhy oe ecetarr iied th iled
ltesr supreme our'tn wast iite .~lioo
ard'en.ltad who madn e 1.i (argumi~eth
I0"o t'h (iuthe--.s'a 1rod col. ir
man h oyasi iht
Tunl ofrthenatio on other cass,
CLINTON WOnM
ILLD IN RECK
Others Are Seriously in
jured Sunday
TRAIN CRASHES IN
TO LOADED AUTO
Another Wreck Also When Halls
Siread and Passengter Train Goes
Into the Ditck. No Fatauitles in this
Wreck. Both Occur -Near Clinton.
Clinton, Oct. 1;.--T'wo accidents,
one already fatal and the other very
likely to result so, happened near Clin
ton Bunday afternoon.
About ' o'eic-ek, two and a half'
imiles froin here, Scaboaj-d Air Line
train No. 5, solid vestibule, south
botund, left the track. .liin Ilaton, the
colored firenani, in j'ir ing frt) tho
engine was perhaps fatally injured.
Ne rly an hour after the 'seaboard
Air Line wreck, and about 3i00 yards
froi the sceei of it, :1n1 automobilO
et rrying nino pa ssenge r wa; struck
by Atlantic Coa;si l ine tr.Iin No. ,3,
tronc Greenvlle to ('harles;ton, and
Mirs. l lien Dougla's, a witow, had her
skull fractured, from wh a:cib she died
at 7::( last night. at ilc linton hos.
ptial.
iitls Spread,
The ' aboard ;cidem :ook Itiaco
.iit bey -d Dover .lu nntonk. It sem
that tile train was running at lie' rato
, ab41ut Iiles an ollr) an v.h lae it
was rouinding a sharp < tVe :lae rails
spread. The tender, iali car, c(inbi
nation baggage and passenger coach
were 1tu r ned over, while the cugino
and (l:,y coach were de.til"d. The
diner. Pulllman and obser atil :n cars
ri1 ine:d en the track.
Ii is believjd 1hat 1 1 Fire)n r) Ilatc
.a:) m'"tally injurgd in juamping. Ito
Ias tuk(n to Abbeville. enas
tc r .:m:it l o MoI iunt ville. S. C.. \is sc
\(.lily shaloCn up anud it I; not yet
kno.'n to what extent he was ijured.
Man\ of the passengers were :hrown
frot I neir scats, but so far as can ho
learned, non, wam; seriously :urt.
Injured RtusIie toh liom}pital.
I'hysicians and surgeon.; were
pronptly suummonedJ and every atten
tion possible wail given the injured,
the most seriously hurt (;f whom were
brought to the Clinton hospital in a
special train that was rushed from the
eahoar( Air [Lline shops at Abbeville.
Local Seaboard *'ains Nos. 52 and
:3, north bound and south bouad, re.
specLively, took tho iassenger; frou
the w reeked train I'ansferre:l their
Own iLssehngers, anid each ret raced its
route. The cross ties under the wreck-.
age wero a tmiass of kindling, and the
i'ails were bent into nIOI y 1,Ieeu lat'
.lany luople frm 'liton and sur-.
roiundaig terr itory vi sit 'dm th s ceneO
of t he wreck this aentomni oil tito
ariinjg trst, antd o ttmr .. i
the vilcinity, reinderedi all a d lit ih o
I0 the injured. The ini
[cel, w~hiebi no gime
T'lal ('rashes' into 'i~
[lntn Mills to llurr tiant
a b o ui t . h v mli le t r m l c r t
numil (te'uuplants, wht n
(Vii y diilrtiont.
ilmmidles LIiMr. I lk h
laity hurl, Mr' uuM'. and .ir
not :eriouily iin iil. r. Do-, I iu U.mt
wvas thme mother oiitf Mri- ( p
(olht (.-2:ipants. of! Ii'. li.
ha ,iI httrt AD i h
raini until within a~ few i- of' Il
1ll I hi front whto'l' wire on It tl
City hut niow (of Mcjofl, hta- e. -,. lil
hiandsomet1 reLsidenlce on 80o . :per
Street to (04:1t. Broelks S't.y -rt , ink
cotta?(; i1n i'by itr-.. I Tr< wa
mae. thru .M o
