New
'Pleasure comes through toil
and not fey indigence and indo
w7
- q0 often to the house of thy
friend, for weeds choke up the un
used path' Scandinavian Edda. '
twzem
lence. Ruskii
YOL. XXXVI, N
HYDE PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1916.
$1.25 A YEAR
and L
MORE AUCTION
Things sold very well at the
Jacob Perlroth auction last Sat
urday, but as there were some
things left that must be disposed
of, there will be a sale at the
same place next rrmay alter
moon. Do not miss it.
JACOB PERLROTH,
Morristown.
-7 : " :
6USINESS NOTICES.
buy some Shoats, weighing
A. W. Waits, Morrisville.
CLERKS WANTED
Five or six bright, trustworthy young
men. 18 to 25 years of age, to work as
Jlerks in one of the largest Depaitment
Food Stores in New England. Wages
and chance for advancement are good.
Apply by letter or in person to Charles
.A. Norton, Brockton Public Market,
Brocktou, Mass.
Everything Way Up
Now is the time to save every scrap
-of old Junk. Telephone or drop a card
to O. K. and you will receive prompt
service and highest prices.
OSCAR KAHN .
Morrisville's Original Junk Man
Telephone, 25-5. Lake Street, Morrisville Vt.
TUB
Economy Store
A. FEW ITEMS
Wen's Outing Shirts, 50c ;
Outsize Night Robes, 98o
Toweling and Made Towels
ladies' Dresses Children's Sweaters
XadieB Waists Handkerchiefs
Xadies' Aprons Ladies' Underwear
Hosiery for Men, Women and Children
Outings, 10 to 12c.
A New Line of Ribbons
Wantbd. To
about. 100 pound,
Horses Fob Sals One Pair Black Mares,
2750 lbs.; one Pair Mares, 1 bay. 1 gray, 2650 lbs.
' V C S. Pagb, Hydo Park.
For Salh. Barred Rock Cockerels, Guilds,
218 'egg strain, J1.00 each. T. R. Woodard,
Neweomb, farm, Morrisville.
Lost. A Wheel Chain for automobile, be
tween Wolcott and Hyde Park. Notify P. A.
HollhnBbck, Wolcott, lor reward.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Cows, Bulls and Hogs. .'..'
Tel. 1 24-31 John Miner, Hyde Park. .
NoncB.'i-A. C. Bedell withes to announce to
the Dublic that he will ship no stock on October
22, but will ship on the following week, October
30. A. C. Bedell, MorrUvma.
For Sale. Chofce Young Stock, some regis
tered, price reasonable; also, rew Lows aoout to
freshen; seventeen 12-weeks-old Berkhire Pigs,
875. Will loan fur keep, a couple horses to re
sponsible parties. J.BL. 37-10,
For Sale. One Pair Mules, 6 and 7 years,
gentle, with Harnesses, Wagon, Sleds 1 3-year-old
Mare colt, partly broken; 1 Surry; nffw pair
Driving Harnesses; 3 Gathering Tubs; Sap bled
and one Power Bone Cutter, cheap lor cash or
bankable paper. K. M. Powers, Johnson,
SATURDAY "
we will hold a
TEN CENT SALE
from two until five o'clock
When Unusual Values Will Be Given
MRS. 0. M. TAYLOR
Champeau Block, Morrisville, Vermont
Remember, WE do Job Printing
MORRISVILLE
O. W.AVrisley of West Hill lost a valu
able cow last week, tbe animal suffering
a broken leg. ''.
Thirty-four members of Mt. Vernon
lodee attended tbe Masonic district
meeting in Stowe yesterday
Miss Anna Mower went to St. Johns-
bury this morning, where she is attend'
ing a state librarians' meeting.
The annual Parish meeting 6f the Uni
versalist church will be held next Thurs
day evening at 7:15 o'clock, when all
interested in the work of the church are
cordially invited to be present.
Guy C. Herrick of Hard wick was the
guest of his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Chas
H. Herrick, the first of the week, going
from here to Springfield, Mass., to at
tend the National Dairy Show.
Hon. and Mrs. Geo. A. Morse left Mon
day night lor a several weeks' western
trip. Judge Morse will look after bank
ing business aud Mrs. Morse will make
a visic to her brother, Nelson Irish, in
Oklahoma. ,
Tracy Withdraws
Editor News &nd Citizen : "
My name having been filed as a candi
date lor State's Attorney for Lamoille
County as an Independent. I wish to
thank my many friends for their confi
dence, but after a due consideration, I
must say to my friends that I am a Re.
publican still. I was defeated at the pri
maries and being a firm beleiver in the
majority rule, I have directed the clerk of
Lamoille county not to place my name
upon the ticket. Believing this action
on my part is for the best interests of tbe
Republican party in Lamoille County,
but will say to my friends that I will be
a candidate at the next primary.
. Yours very truly,
W. E. Tracy.
Mr. Tracy takes a wise step. He may
feel aggreived over defeat in the primary
and his friends may have urged him to
bolt, but it is always best to abide by
the will of the party. Bolting theg-egu-lar
nominee may profit temporarily but
it doesn't in the long run. This has al
ways been so and always will be so.
AT S ALEEB Y'S
The Most Wonderful
Values We Are Now
Offering are the
Women's Suits at $14.90 and $19.50
Women's Coats at $11.50 and $15
Men's Suits at $15.00 and $18.50
Men's Overcoats at $12.50 and $15.00
This is not the limit of our range of prices but the
above quotations are the very special values which we are
offering: and which will be hard for vou to match at these
prices.
Our Women's Suits range from
$12.50 to $35, Women's Coats from $5.00
to $30, Men's Suits from $6.50 to $25,
Men's Overcoats from $7.50 to $22.50.
Every garment we offer is priced below its value today.
A. J. SALEEBY
"THE STORE THAT SAVESJYOU MONEY."
JOHNSON, j VERMONT
' Ellis Bridge, who is employed in Swan
ton, was home over Sunday.
Mrs. Mary Canty is entertaining Miss
Amelia Johnson of Wells River.
Mrs. Porter Shonio returned Monday
from the Fanny Allen hospital.
Mr. and Mrs. L. A. Gould and child
ren spent the week-end at B. B. Blake's
in Eden.
A good delegation from Morrisville at
tended the McMahon auction at Stowe
last Saturday.
I. L. Huttion ot franklin nas been a
guest of Mr. and Mrs. Henry C. Gagnon
on West Hill..
Miss Mable Balsb was a recent guest
of her cousins, Ld E. Bliss, and Mrs. W.
W. Fairbanks.
Sacks Bros, fall opening sale begins on
Saturday, Oct. 21. Read all about it on
page 5 of this issue.
Mrs. M. W, Carlton returned Friday
evening from a visit at the home of her
parents at Orleans. !
William Blair, who enlisted in Co. M,
1st Vt. regiment, is now a guest of his
brother, Frank Blair.
Miss Florence Stewart spent Saturday
and Sunday with Miss Freda Talbert at
the latter's home in Hardwick.
Miss Mabel Palmer of Shelburne. who
was a guest tor a wen ot Miss Kutn
Mudgett, returned home Friday. " '
The inspection of James M. Warner Re
lief Corps was held Friday evening, the
department president acting as inspector, j
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Campbell of Old
Orchard, Me., have been visiting the lat
ter's sister, Mrs. George Badger the past
week.
Miss Louise Slucum went last Friday
eveningto Burlington to visit her mother,
who is receiving treatment at the Hays
sanitarium. ,-. .; .., V.
Albert Sulham, Oscar Sulham, Mrs.
Clinton Stygles and Mrs. F. C. Meacham
were in Hardwick Friday to attend the
funeral of Mrs. Gustave Sulham. -
Willis Mould left the first of tbe week
for Mineville, N.Y., where be has resumed
his position as mine surveyor, which he
left to join Co. O. for border service.
A Business meeting of the Ladies Aid of
the Universalistchurchis called on Thurs
day evening, Oct. 19, at 7 o'clock sharp
in the church parlor. All members ate
requested to be present.
There will be three candidates for
Town Representative, G. I. A. Smith
having filed as a "Progressive." The
other candidates are: E. A. Smalley, Re
public"" end George Thomas, Democrat,
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Rowland, who
have been living at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Lester Magoon the past two
montns, go tms ween to tbeir home in
Newport where Mr. Rowland has em
ployment.
The October meeting of the local W. C.
T. U. will be held Friday of this week
at the home of Mrs. Elmer Camp on Mh
pie street. Beside the special program
prepared, delegates will give reports of
the State Convention recently held in
Barre. All interested are invited.
Smugglers' . Notch
On Monday next a large party, made
up of the "prospective"' Representatives
of this county, together with several
other prominent citizens, also Gov. Gates,
next Gov. Graham, Senator Simonds of
St. Johnsbury and others, will go over
the road from .Jeffersonville through
Smugglers' Notch,' 'The trip is made for
the purpose of showing up tbe feasibility
of a road from Jefferson ville through this
'splendid scenic part of Mt. Mansfield.
The party will leave Jeffersonville at ten
o'clock and will be guests of L. S. Morse
at a luncheon at bis camp which is about
six miles Irom Jeffersonville. Stowe par
ties will meet tbe visitors at the Notch.
A Splendid Masonic Meeting
The annual meeting ot tbe 13th Ma
sonic district, which includes the six
lodges in Lamoille county, was held at
Stowe Tuesday afternoon and evening.
Grand Master Ross, Grand Senior War
den Wells and Grand Lecturer Jones were
present, also several visiting brethren
from outside the district. Every lodge in
the county was represented, making an
attendance of 125, which was a good
record when weatker conditions were
considered. W. S. Silloway. of Wolcott,
the D.D.G.M., was in charge and he has
just reason for being proud of the splen-
' did results of tbe gathering.
Toe opening of the afternoon proceed
ings were in charge of Mt. Norris lodge
of Eden, Lovell Whitney, W. M., after
which the E. A. degree was conferred by
Waterman lodge of Johnson, Lloyd Pearl
W. M. This degree was worked in a
most impressive manner and reflects
great credit upon the lodge in charge, re
ceiving many compliments from the wit
nesses. Alter this the E. A. lectures were
given by Warner Lodge in its usual ex
cellent manner; C. S. Brush, W. M.
At six o'clock a banquet was served by
the ladies of tbe Eastern Star and a
"feast fit for a king" it was, said tbe 118
Masons who partook of it. Those East:
ern Star ladies are "it" when it comes to
putting up a chicken pie spread.
At 8 o'clock the M. M. degree was con.
ferred by Mystic Lodge, the home lodge,
C. A. Riley, W. M. Stowe lodge has the
reputation for doing excellent work in
all degrees, but we venture the assertion
that never has it performed the' work
better than it did last evening, Tbe
Worshipful Master and all of his assist--ants
had their parts well and impressive
ly .iiidered the same. The. lectures on
this degree were given bV Mt. Vernon
lodge of Morrisville in good form.
The event concluded with remarks by
Grand officers, who complimented the
lodges on their excellent work. A social
hour followed, concluding one of the best
of district meetings.
Prepare Tor Winter
The best investment you can make Is to buy a new
ANDES HEATER or RANGE. It will save you
half of its fuel this winter, besides giving perfect sat-
isfaction. " , w ; . .,
A Bargain in a New Hub Heaier. Also, Air-Tight Heaters
Putty and Glass, if you want to do your own work.
. Storm Windows to fit any window.
y'M. B. WHITE & CO.,
Lamoille County's Largest Home Furnishers
rVTorris ville, - - $ Vermont
F. C- LUGS CO
PORTLAND STREET, MORRISVILLE, VERMONT.
Don't Overlook This
Now is the time to buy the boy a new suit. We have
an exceptionally good line of Boys an Young Men's Suits.
Boys' Suits, from 6 to J 8 years, in Blues, Grays, Browns
and Mixtures, from $2.98 to $7.50, in the Norfolk Style.
YOUNG MEN'S SUITS
especially tor Boys just putting on long trousers,
In the New Pinch Back Model
From $10 00 to $20 00
REMEMBER We have a full line of Sweaters, Mack-
inaws. Flannel Shirts and Overcoats for the cold weather and
we are sure we can save you money on these goods.
Clement F. Smith, Harrison Dodge and
Geo. H.Terrill went last Friday to Spring.
field, Mass., to attend the National Dairy
show. Gerald I. Town and Carroll Lan
pner left Monday night to attend the
show and L. M. Munson went with
an automobile party lrom Moretown'
Others attending from this place are L.
S. Small and F. M. Small.
Elmore Representative
George C. Bryant was nominated as
the Republican representative candidate
at the Elmore caucus held last Saturday
night.
Ford Cuts Capers
The Ford car of Tom P. Johnson of
Craftsbury furnished excitement on the
Wolcott road, near the Grout place, Sun
day afternoon. Something happened to
the steering gear and after running from
side to side of tbe road, the car laid
down and rolled over, throwing out the
occupants, Mr. and Mrs. Johnson and
three children. H. A. Smalley took the
party home in his car, and with the ex
ception of two injured ribs sustained by
Mr. Johason, who was If able to be in
town today, the party escaped injury.
The car was quite badly smashed and is
in tbe Lamoille garage for repairs.
Stygles Pleads Guilty
O. E. Stygles of Stowe, who was driv
ing the automobile which figured in an
accident near Waterbury two weeks ago,
aod caused tne deatu ot Justin juarsnaii,
pleaded guilty in Montpelier city court
to three charges. He paid a fine of $100
and costs of $13 25 for operating an
automobile without a license; $5 and no
costs for intoxication; and $100 and no
costs for operating an automobife while
intoxicated.
O. E. S. Entertain
The regular monthly meeting of the 0.
E. S. was held last evening with an extra
large attendance. A public supper was
served at the usual time and in tbe even
ing Coral Chapter entertained Mansfield
Chapter of Jeffersonville, over twenty re
sponding to tbe invitation.
The ritual work was exemplified by
Coral Chapter and a short programme
rendered followed by remarks ana recep
tion of the visitors.
The guests were then served a banquet
after which they left by autos for tbeir
homes.
Attend Teachers Convention
The following teachers of the village
and rural schools of Morristown attended
tbe Teachers Convention at Burlington
last week: Prin. J. T. Sears, C. W. Whip-
pen, May Campbell, Ltfcile Gilmour,
Catherine Wilcox.Nina Shepardson, Mrs.
H. M. Ide, Grace Gates, Dorothy Harris,
Rena Merrill, Eugene Call, Mamie weaf-
er. Edna Clayton, Bessie Kjaer, ttnei
Hoyt, Doris Carpenter, Laura Wright,
Ella Sargent, Lois McCuen.
Supt. O. D. Howe was elected president
of the school master's club and presided
at the annual banquet of the club, which
was attended by 130 Friday evening.
Mr. Howe was also elected chairman of
the committee on nominations, of which
Mrs. Harriet M. Ide was chosen a member.
Tbe attendance was tbe lareest in the
history of the conventions, 1541 being
enrolled. -
D. A. R. Opening Meeting
The Captain Jedediah Hyde Chapter,
D. A. R. met for tbe first session of tbe
year, on Wednesday evening-, Oct. 'llth'
at the home of Miss Louise Slocum. Al
though the attendance was small, the
meeting was unusually enthusiastic and
those who were present received encour
agement and inspiration for carrying on
the work.
The topic for the evening was "Vaca
tion Notes," and especially interesting
talks were given by Mrs. Fisk, Mrs. Val-
leau, and Mrs. Ide. Mrs. Valleau told of
some of tbe 'quaint places she visited in
tbe old historic town of Salem; and also
of her stop at the Old Constitution House
in Windsor. During the summer, Mrs.
Ide had yisited some particularly inter
esting and romantic Revolutionary relics
in New York, and she described and ex
plained them most entertainingly.
A discussion of plans for the work to
be taken up during the ensuing year
brought lorth some splendid suggestions
for varying tbe programmes, and thus
eivmg them a broader appeal. Tne
committee will adopt some of these ideas
and hope to have the year books out be
fore the next meeting.
Refreshments were served, and a social
hour enjoyed, after which the meeting
adjourned to convene again on Wednes
day evening, Nov. 8th, at the home of
Mrs. Augusta Wheeler, on Bridge St.
HYDE PARK
CoL McFarland transacted business at
East Highgate yesterday.
Mrs. Lizzie White and Miss Bernice
Atwell visited in Eden Sunday.
Melva, Murial and Roland Robbins,
while out walking Sunday picked several
rJpe J & wberjies. '
, Mrs. Jaqueth of Lowell spent several
days here the past week with her
daughter, Mr. A.J. Clark.
Several Masons from this pla;e attend,
ed District meeting at Stowe Tuesday
evening. All report a fine time.
At a recent meeting of Vermont physi
cians at St. Johnsbury Dr. Leach was
elected a member of the executive board.
i
Mr. and Mrs. Irvio Huntley and son of
Essex Junction and Mrs. Carrie Jackson
of Uuderhill, were recent guests of Mrs
Lizzie White.'
Mrs. Margaret Elpick who has been
visiting her mother, Mrs. Mary Gibson,
the past four weeks, returned to her home
in Montreal yesterday.
Fred'k Forehand of Worcester, Mass.,
was the guest of S. B. Waite a few days
this week. Mr. Forehand is the father,
in-law of Harold Waite.
Mrs. Spellman and two children of
Brooklyn N. V., who have been at Samo
set through the summer, are spending a
couple of weeks at the Inn.
Tbe Ladies' Club netted over $40 at
their tecent rummage sale. This is very
well, considering the weather. Proceeds
are to be used in furnishing the new
library.
Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Leavenworth, use
Katbrine Maloney, of New Haven.
Conn., are spending a few weeks in town.
Mrs. Leavenworth is a sister of John
Maloney and this is her first visit here in
twelve years.
Word received from Mr. and Mrs. Thos.
Finnegan is to the effect that they are
having a great time in Massachusetts
and if Thomas can break away from the
frivolities of metropolitan affairs . they
will be home tbe latter part of this week.
On Thursday, Nov. 2, the Ladies' Aid
will hold a sale of useful and fancy arti
cles at the Cong'l Church. The sale will
open at 3.00 p. m and remain open dur
ing the afternoon and evening. adv.
Hollis Collins, who has been employed
in Helcbertowo. Mass.. tne pan lew
months, was the guest of friends in town
last Saturday, having also visited rela
tives in lohnson and Stowe. He has
been taking an enforced vacation on ac
count of iniunes received to bis loot, i
while helping to move a safe. He re
turned to Bckbertown the first of the
week.
AT TAB IW C01XR STORE. HYDE PARK
There is a Harvest of Splendid Values. New comers are
MacVlnaws $6 00 to 7.00, Sheepskin-lined Cists $6.50 and 7.00, Sheepskin-lined
Mackinaw $9.00. Raincoats $6 00 to 8.09. T.Kines 25 to 50c, Toque Sets 60c. $1.00
sod 2.25, Small Children's Snowball Suits $2 00 to 2.50, Men's Flannel Shirt $1.50,
M-n's Wool-Hoed Kid Glove $1.00, Outings 11c a yard. Beacon Falls Rubber Boota
$3.73 a pair. Our Shoe Department is a busy one. A nice line of Fruit for Saturday.
Uargain Day Specials, Saturday, Oct. 21st, only:
Large size Lamp Chimoeys 2 for 15 eta.
Medium sUe Lamp Chimneys 2 for 13 cts,
3 Bars Fairy Soap 13 eta.
5 regular 50c Ladies' Hats to close at 39 eta.
' 4 regular $1 00 Girl's Hats to close at 85 eta.
Yours for business
A. J. CLARIv, Hytlo Park.
