. i. I""
fHfWEATHER FORECAST
Partly cloudy to-day; to-morrow partly
cloudy; moderate south winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 745 lowest, 64.
Detailed wreath ec, mall and marina reports on pat 11.
tm.
ONE CENT ...jK.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 315.
4
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JULY 11, 1916. Copyright, 19U, by Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
TWO CENT.
IT SHINES .fL '
FRENCH STORM
ANDTAKEHILL
NEARPERONNE
r
Height Commands the
Somnie-Less Than Half
Mile From Town.
BRITISH REPULSED
IN TEUTON ATTACK
Summary of the War News.
The French In their operations
south of the Sommc have advanced
to within about a mile of l'eronne,
at present held strongly by the Ger
mans. They Imvc occupied the sum
mit known ns Hill 0", which com
mantN the Sonime to the southeast
of lllnrhes, mid hnve strcnRthened
their tuitions between Illnches and
Barleux.
PeIHrate flglitlnii bus occurred be
tween the British mid the Ciermitns
at Troni'x wood, against which the
Oermnns lnunrhed six separate at
tarks. Five of thee were repulsed,
icconlliiK to the British War Office,
luit the sixth was successful In that
It permitted the tiermans to pone-
trate the wood, where latest reports
Hitd the nclitlng continued.
The British troops, however, made
some itiilni In the neighborhood of
Ovlllers and l.n Ilol.elle, and In 11
particularly werful nttack on the
(lertnnn positions In the Mumetz
wood eilereeded In wluulnc some
Itniuiid where previously the resist
anee li:nl heon too troiiK to break.
The forces of the tlorniau Crown
Prince are still pounding heavily
ncnlrM the French positions at
Frolde Torre. Fleury and the Fumln
wd, In the Verdun sector, but so
far n the official statements show
the notions have been confined to
bombardments.
There bus apparently been no halt
I. .1... II. ...l.. -.I
in in' iiu-iiiii ikii.iiii- iiiwmii
Revel. In Vnlbynla, The German de-1
'
f(-ii?. tilotitr the Stokhod Hlver have
b(-?n unable to stay the progress of
the Hiin-Iimis who, though struncly
cpiioed, have cms-ed the river at
rnrlriu- points. The late-t cnmmuul-
ea.lon fro,,, Uu.sl,,,, ,,.,n,l M ,,,( devoted to civic cleanllne,, by c"v Young, of North Dakota: Hlnnnit': Ore
qiwrtcr shows tllllt tho two oppos- officials. Tie City Magistrates took a Copiev. Illinois; ElMon, Stephens
ins armlo- nro in the ml.Kt of tor- ! Vi" ,n,'n,e. 'h''.r "hJT. ll !"' NoUn. California. Hawley. Orego-, :
rifle -trucKlo, for It montlmis "tho
fnemy rallhil nnil mmlo ilooporntc effort-
to miilntiiln Ills imxltlons nn
th" left bunk of Dip. river." Along
tlil lino tho battlo 1 still In progress.
In the Ovltm sector nrul enst of
i..i.t .1... f i .in
I'.ii iinni lilll lilt- I Il'l lUflll. IIHVi: lit
llteri'd -.tnmu' rounter nttnckR iititl
are iiii'lerinkln', extensive- offensive
opera lnn.
HriiNli forces uniler Oen. Smuts
have occupied Tniiticu. tK, soooml
frt in itnimrtnnoe on the const of
O-i t.iii Kust Afrlen nnil the termliius
of :i (iorninii -iiiliii:i(l.
FliEXCTl. IN FIERCE
FIGHT, GET HILL 97
Win tft,.e Desperntr Battle
for
s.iiiinir Ailrnntnur,
Pahis. July in.in a brilliant attack
lh rrn h have carried Hill :7. a height
"ll'i-h do-r nates the S3omm; snutheist of
nil ttt., according to the official sta'e
'.t l-su-d by the Krench War Offloe to-
n'cht.
A n-v attafk was launched west of
Mtknil In the Champagne by the Krench
la nig .t The War Office tn-day an-r.-'iirif'd
th' capture of trenches over a
"on' of 300 m-trcs. Three bayonet
craws were delivered.
The tnklng by the Krench of the
Bluhes vlllnge. on the bank of the
somme, opposite Saint Hadegonde, the
prlrclpil suburb of Peronne, was accom
Hblwl In about an hour and a half. A
French lieutenant who took part In the
tuault describes the action as follows'
About noon word came for the dlvl
fort to keep ready,' and at 1 o'clock our
oMlers advanced to the attack all along
th front from Sormont farm to Belloy
tn'S'jiuerre !'") to !' (iermsn I.lnn,
"The first Germin lln was passed al
"-t without fighting, so effective httd
tht preparatory tonliardinent been, hut
wlien - entered Illachrs at 2:10 wc
I'.'Jtid ety house organised as a fort
nil hiippllcd with a number,if machine
urns. (iir artillery, hovvover. by Its ai
furtey .md power destroyed these de.
nces. though It still left cellars and
MV'i full of enemies.
"As we entered the village the com
wanilant. who was at the head of a bit
tullon. ith rlHc In hand, ordered the
trunpMerh to sound the charge. All the
finnin In th- village were captured ur
!I1M, The eeiminane.Bnt was wound-id
-y h"t from a lieutenant's revolver,
"'it h- kpr'ked down the lieutenant with
Wow- finm his rifle,
"At S s.i tho village was completely
In our pfireslon, although a recent flr
Win 0'iler bad declau-d It to be Mm
I'reirihle We are now less than two
s'lmlift from Peronne."
The recent nghtlng on the Krench
front ti ihe Somme sector Is only the
JP'turg phase of a plan elaborated by
in Jorfie, according to review
-he military situation published In
to.nay'), 7cmp. The paper says all the
fults x,rcted have been accomplished
M 'hut further successes are assured.
"I-ve )bo(ly will realise," says the
J'i'ipi, i t- dangei eif making known
In the newspapers, the plan which It
Wni! executed by Gen. Jortre. It must
s uii'lersiond that the operatiorw can
not h- cairk-d out In a rigid and In-
varliiliio (f,rm. Napoleon himself never
rtertalni-d such Ideas. His plana were
Jwnlnaled by one chief purpose and were
k itate uf continuous evolution. II
Coniinutd on rAird Page.
1 AND NEW YORK PRESS)
FEWER PARALYSIS
DEATHS GIVE HOPE
Only U Reported, but 103
New Cases Show Epi
demic Is Rife.
CLEANLINESS FIGHT ON
Many Violators of Sanitary
Ordinances Fined Other
States Watchful.
The Infantile paralysis epidemic waa
regarded by the authorities nit no worse
yesterday. Dr. Haven Emcrnn. Health
Commissioner, nfler helmc told by his
statistician that the new cases num
bered 103, an Increase of B from the
preceding day, and that the deaths num
bered ,14, the lowest In more than a
week, was Inclined to take a favorable
view of the situation.
"So Ions; as the new cases each day
do not Increase by big- jumps I shall
feel hopeful." he said. "I muat consider
the figure each day for at least a week
before I make any phophecy."
Dr. Emerson'a attitude Is that if the
tVuree remain euhatantlally the same
for a week they wilt Indicate that the
situation Is under control. The new
cares yesterday showed an Increase over
the Sunday, Saturday and Friday fig
ures, but for the last live days there has
been a steeidy decrease In the number of
deaths.
"Generally," Mid Dr. Emerson, "If the
patients do not die at the onset of the
disease they recover."
With the total cases amounting to
1,053. and the deaths to 23S, the only
other discomforting development was the
Increase of new casf In Manhattan to
30, the Inrgest number In that borough
In any one day. Thaw caves, however,
were In the districts where the earlier
victims lived. In Ilrooklyn there were
(14 new cares, a slight falllm: off: in
Queens, 1 ; Richmond, 4, and The Bronx.
rton
The dentin were -9 In Brooklyn, 3 In
. t 1 1 1'1 I........ ...1 1 In
Manhattan, 1 in The ltronx and 1
In
Richmond.
Concentrate nn Cleanliness.
As the steps towaid a spotlerr city
wee believed to have something to do
with cheeking the rnpld rise In the num
ber of cases, greater encrcy than ever
Police Department, aided by the Home Farr! Pnn'svlvanla ! Gardner. Massnch-i-Defence
league; members of the Police. Knk'nIrti slr)in Bnd Iteavls. Ne-
rire, icnemciu iioue, uTinrui"' ii"
Street Cleaning departmentn who had
been working on Sunday made their work
felt In the court esterdnv morning.
Through their efforts more than BS0 per
sons wero arraigned In Manhattan and
The Ilronx for vledatlr the sanitary (
orainanres ano w eir nnru, ..iu.-ij , -sors
were lined by Ilrooklyn Magis
trates. Prior to the opening of court the Mag
istrates received n letter from Krelerlck
H. House, acting Thief Magistrate, in
which the lmpolng of substantial pen
alties for violations of the provblons of
the sanitary code was urged.
Magistrate Patton, In !sex Market
court, fined 350 persons, tho majority
of them women carrying babies. He had
a difficult time making the women un-der.t.-.nrl
the law. Magistrate Marsh. In
the Tombs court, fined H defendants
from 1 to tt each. Mnglstratc Slmms.
In the Vorkvlll- court. dlepoed of forty
thre" p-reons. Masls'i-ate Murphy, In the
Harlem court, was more severe, Impos
ing fines of V each. Magistrate Groehl.
In the JefTereon Market court, fined seventy-four
rersons.
The cleanup work will continue more
vls-orously to-day Thel Public Service
Commission took a haid yesterday by
ordering nil embwny I contractors to
notify the police If persons living along
the excavations persisted In th: owing
refure Into the ditches.
Veins- 10,000,000 Gallons Dar.
Kj-erywb.ere throughout the city was
manifested an engerness to help make
the city cleaner. Street Cleaning Com
missioner Ketherston announced that he
had increased his Range- of street fl''h"
to 200 and that they were pouring 10,
000.000 gallons n day on streets and
sidewalks.
When Dr, Rmerson met the members
of his general committee at 2:30 yester
day afternoon he was almost In a more
cheerful mood. He said that there were
J!S7 beds taken by the babies In the
Kingston Avenue, Wlllard Torker and
Riverside hospitals, leaving 233 beds
still available.
The private hospitals have promised
us 290 beds," sold Commissioner Kmer
eon after the meeting. "We have not
vet heard from the Chart'les Depart
ment. Kills island Hospital with 00
K.a. I. nvallnhle. so that we have 1,200
beds In fight. T do not expect thnl I we
shall be compelled to call on the Ellis
Island institution. We feel that the city
i...ie nhnoM he mohlllted to the utmost
i,.im -e call on outside resources. If
we use the rcuie isibou hoi-jio.ii,
will ask the help of the American Red
Ctoss In furnishing us nurses nn
In,. "
Several private hospitals already have
taken In Infantile paralysis cases. St.
Catherine' Hospital. Brooklyn, has two,
Hmi Kinsl one and Presbyterian two.
"Tho situation ne m norw-i is inm
satisfactory now," expiameo. nr. I'.mrr-
",v. nrp .ruin. I uin ,(,ir....j
having litre n rony more mr iih.)hi..i ..
thirty-six additional for field wmk. We
like to have a nurse on the ambulance,
who goc with the doctor to the home.
undrcrstB the chll'l and proves, helpful
i nnv wava in the diagnostic work.
With some of the children In the hos.
oiiol. stens are beln-J tsltcn to develop
tUa arms nr I mi iuij i" i .'
Ivned by the dlscnse. In addition to
the 1500 given by Mrs. Daniel Ouggen
helm 1300 had come In. nnd $100 from
an anonymous giver i" ""- o
th- Ttenlth Department sees nt.
Ilraces will be tmrchiuied. A meeting nf
charitable organisation to discuss plans
f0r this work will be held In Brooklyn
,0rv?y,TCmrson gave nut yeslerrtay some
Interesting IHures about the death rate
in. i week, as compared with the corre-
roondln week of a year go. The hfcjher
Contirtt.rd on Btwnth Pag;
$200,000,000 BILL
IS PASSED BY HOUSE
Revenue Provision Goes
Through by Vote of
240 to 140.
BANKERS' TAX CUT OUT
Democrats Vote Solidly 39
Republicans Give
Aid..
WasittNOTOV, July 10. The Demo
cratic revenue bill, designed to raise ap
proximately $200,000,000 additional reve
nue, passed the House to-nlRht by a vote
of 540 to 140. Democratic members voted
solidly for the bill, and thirty-nine Re
publicans and one Independent supported
It.
The minority succeeded In amending;
the bill In several particulars, but no
vital change was made In any section ex
cept that relating to the levy of special
Internal revenue taxes. The House struck
j out the tax on bankers. As reported, the
bill carried a tax on bankers of tl per
thousand of capital, surplus and un
divided profits.
Several changes were made In the
tariff commission section. The salaries
of the commissioners were reduced from
$10,000 to $7,500, and the prohibition
against former members of Congress
serving on the commission was climb
nated.
During the debatn Representative Hill
Connecticut, sought to Increase the duties
on dyesluffs. His effort failed, but he as
serted that the arrival at Haltlmore or
the Deutschland with a cargo of dyes In
dicated the determination of Herman) to
retain the control of the dyestuffs Indus
try. '"The voyage of the German submarine."
Mr Hill said, "marks a significant situa
tion In the history of the world. Small
nations as well as large may aspire to
the mastery of the sea "
Minnesota and Wisconsin furnished
most of the Republican vote in favor of
the Democratic bill. Four minority mem
bers of the Ways and Means Committee
Longworth, Sloan, Gardner and Green
supported the bill.
Republicans voting for the bill were:
Anderson. DavK Ellsworth, Lindbergh.
Miller. Schall. Smith. Hteenerson and
Volstead, of Minnesota. Hrowre, Cary.
Cooper, Esch and Stafford, of Wisconsin :
Dowell. flood, Green. Ramsyer . nd
Sweet, of Iowa; Dillon and .Inhnson, .if
South Dakota Helgeren. Norton and
braska: Morgan. Oklahoma: Longworth
and McCuiloch. Ohio; Itobertl, Nevada;
Kent ( Ind.), California.
Itepresentatlve Fltngerald. chairman of
the Appropriation fommittee. rallied a
few Democrats and practically nil ir.a
Republicans and put through an amend-
ment striking out the provision for
"permment" appropriation of $300,000
per year for the expenses of the tariff
commission. This chango was made on
a viva voce vote. It displeased Repre
sentative Halney, In charge of the tariff
commission Fectlon, but when Mr. Ralnev
nemanneo a roil enn iner were inuu
shouts of "No!" and no roll call was
had.
t'n'er the Fitzgerald amendment it"
tariff commission will come to Congress
annually for Its appropriations. The sum
0 0 is aopted tor .he next J
fiscal vear.
There wa n partisan date or sev
eral hours pr-e-dlng the vote. Ilepre-
sentatlve Good, HpunUcn, Iowa, ue
clared the bill was Hepubllcin In princi
ple and criticised the minority for nn evi
dent Intention not to support the meas
ure. Representative Fes.., an Ohio Re
publican, assailed the Democrats because
of their appropriations for'-'imrk" and
priori lh .,i,ih snnronrl.fl.iMS wr
i, . ; 'th.' n.-, e n ,
-
Another defeated amendment was that i
of Mr, Sloan. Nebraska Republican, who
suggested that as the Democrats are
about to repeal tho "stamp taxes" of
the emergeney revenue nui or iwo ycara
ago, they ought to refund all stamp tnxes
heretofore paid.
KAISER'S PHYSICIAN DIES.
Dr. Frederick von libera; Had Spe
cial Care nf Emperor's Throat.
I.oupon. July 10. An Amsterdam des
patch to the Kxchango Telegraph Com
pany says tnat ir. i-reaerick vv, n.
von Ilben: died In Berlin .Sunday.
Dr. ven Ilberg hnd the special care
of tho throat affection from which the
German Emperor has suffered for many
years, and was one or the hmperor a
most Intimate friends.
CUBA QUARANTINES CHILDREN.
Mrasnrea Taken tKaln't I'. . Trav
ellers ns Paralysis Guard.
Jpeclal Cahlt lttpateh to Twe Si n,
Havana, July 10. The Cuban military
authorities have Adopted nuarantlno re
strictlonB ngalnrt Unllod States children
on account of the epidemic of Infnntlle
paralysis.
In the future children arr.v!ng from
American porta who have an mhnnrmal
temperature will be Isolated until the
trouhle Is diagnosed, while children in
normal health will h- kept under sur
veillance until the dnnser of developing
Infantile paralysis tins passed.
U. S. SENATE AIDS FIGHT.
Passes nrsnlntlnn Giving; I'sc
nf
Kills Island to City.
Wasiiikcton. July to. The Senate to.
day passed the resolution turning over
to the municipal autnori i-s in ,vw ior
the use of the hoepltnl and Inspect on
faclllllos of Kills Island .i check the
siiresd or llitnnilie nnrniysis.
The. reeoiutioii waa ciuieei up n rr,,-
or O'Gorinan and was unopposed. Thn
: . ....... ,,
s'lty Is required to reimburse Ihe Gov-
einment ror any loss or uainage io me
property resulting from Its uec by the
city,
Atlantic Klrrt In War finnie,
Nbwpoiit, July in, The Atliintlc fleet
left to-day for a week of tnanceuvers off
Block Island.
TO SUN AND PRESS READERS
That many of you were unable to get The Sunday
Sun last Sunday seems -certain, as early in the day
newsdealers were very generally Hold out clean. Because
of the incomparably fast-mounting sale of the weekday
issues, we were sure there would be a heavy demand for
the Sunday, so increased the edition by more than fifty
per cent, over the preceding week, but this increase fell
far short of meeting the requirements.
I fear we shall not be able to come much nearer the
mark for next Sunday unless you come to our aid at once
with your order for The Sunday Sun. May I not, there
fore, urge you to leave your order with your newsdealer
immediately on reading this notice, so that he can send
us a corrected order that will insure you getting The
Sunday Sun?
FRANK A. MUNSEY.
DR. FINLEY HELD UP
BY CAMP'S SENTRIES
Education Commissioner lias
Two Innocent Clashes
With Guardsmen.
Camp Whitman, GnctcN Havfiv, N. Y.,
July 10. Dr. John H Klnley. State Com
mis.'. oner it fJdtieatlnn, yesterday nar
row ly p-i-,-ped eviction from er;i;i, l
was learned to-day. The Commissi -.tier
In fact twice had trouble in u short
Sunday visit, but he Ir known for the
delight h takes In uch Incidents, o
that no harm w-as done, except to lh
icellngs of two chagrined guardsmen
Walking from H-pewell Junction to I
the camp. Dr, Klnley started to crow i
the lines In an out of the way spot when
he was gruffly challenged by n sentry
who told him he mut go around and
come in the regular way. So the
Commissioner circled the . amp nnd en
tered the usual wav After n short visit
at head.niarten. he left with the little ,
wriMwun'l" his arm In hch..? I
h war nc-iin htl! up by ft runrrl
Hey!" shouted thi alert guardsman,
"you can't peddle anythlrg here."
It In understood Commissioner Klnley
had little difficult) Jn.iytalalnlofeio. tho
guard that h w not trying to peildie
anything, and went nn smiling.
SEA BATTLE IN BALTIC.
Report of Violent CminnnadlBB He
porfert at Copenhagen.
CorcKiiAOK.s. via Mndon, July 11
The Dai,rn.i .Vuierter announces that a
sea battle Is believed to hale occurred in
the llaltlc outside of liaefrlnge on Hun
day night.
Violent cannonading wns heard from
severil points on the coast, and It Is pre
.eunn d that th- German Mid Russian pa
trolling sepiadroiis clashed.
MISS KEEN, EXPLORER, A BRIDE.
Weds Mining; Mnn Who ('limbed
Alaska Monnletln With tier.
PuiLApni ritiA. July 10 Annoum-e-
ment was niide lu re to-dny nf the nnr
I ring" at MriVirthy, Alaska, on Satut-
Mci'nrthy. Alaska. Mies Keen's father,
Dr W. W, Keen, mad- tho announce
ment. Mls Keen and Mr. Handy made the
acerit of Mount Blackburn, lt.1 10 feet
hlRb. in May. 1?12 The latter had met
Miss Keen In Cordova and asked to
Jnln the mountain climbing party.
Mr Handy, who l.i the son of a Ger
I "' "" ..... ........ .
urallzntmn papers. lie i-a mining man
, The cnup', wll I)ve I,, AlasKa.
I SEE TROUBLE 10K thRV.
i .,... ,,ri,,nn iininln(.
plclona nf New Plana.
Washinotov. July in, Otflrlal des
patches received to-ibiy In Datln Ameri
can diplomatic (pinners say that a sectet
agreement has be-n made between Peri,
and Venexuel-i with the object of taking
vast tracts nf Isnd the rightful poss-ssl, n
of which they dispute with Colombia and
Ecuador. Grave fears for the peare of
the nations Involved hnve been expresse,'.
The boundary disputes Involving thi
four countries have been of long stand
ing. It had been reported that Colombia
and Pern had approached an understand
Ing of their dllllcultles and that arhltrv
tlnn whs In contemplation. An award In
the dispute between Venezuela and Co-
lombit war made by Spain In IM'l. Tim
four legations here profees to have little
knowledge of the situation.
HUGHES'S NEPHEW SEES SHARK.
Encnatitrrs Visitor While Canoeing
Xrnr nrldgehamptnii.
llnipiiBHAMPTON, U I July 10, The
fact that It is the summer homo of a
Presidential nomh.ee Is nn longer Ilrldge.
hampton's only claim to distinction. It
hnd n real shnrk scare this afternoon
r'olln Ksterhrook Carter. 25, a son i f
Dr. Colin S. Carter, Mrs. MiignrK's broth
er, was in a canoe with Miss Winifred
Laud Brown of Knglewnod, N, J., when
they sighted a black object only 300 feet
nwav and headed toward their craft.
Carter had a good view of It and swears
It was a shark. ,
nivrr nnlhers Hnve Seal Scare.
Tars. ton. July I" Bathers In the Del
nwiiri. River lit Washington's Crossing
nnd at Tnylorsv Ille. Pa., hnve ipilt river
batn)nK, ei has s-nrrd them nwiiy.
T, tllM llfl(.rnron n,l
J . . hl , wn(t cnM.
...j... ,i ,-i.i,h., -nmini, it.ni
. mmiini.iio . o. - -
, h fm,,lni: n t,s small llsll has
' '" ", ' .
Canadian Trlrgrraphers for lrlkr
WiNNirru, Mnn., July 10. A strike
vote of 3,000 Gre-nt Northwestern tele
graph operators In Canada concluded to.
day shows 91) per rent. In favor of a
strlko for u 10 to 16 per cent, increase In
GEN. OBREGON WIRES
WAR PERIL IS OVER
Orders Gen. Callcs to Hasten
Return of Ainrrienns
to Mexico.
Douglas, ArU... July 10. Gen. Caltee.
ArU... July 10. Gen. Calif
.. ,.,.- ,i.
to.,lnv n.K-u.,1 i,,u f v..--...n ,,,in.
Ing companies operating in Fonor that ,
he had received a telegram from Gin.
,...i. r
saving that all dancer of 'war with the I
I'nileii States had p.i.sed.
Gen. libreiron ordered Pnlles to ex-
pedlte the Teturn of all Americans opr-
atlng mines or ranches In his territory I
and to give them every guarant)
t)- for iheins-tvcs and their iio
of !nfe-1
pioperty.
Gen. Kllan, military commander of Ho-
nora. said i
"Adyles rerevd to-day from Mi-xlro
city were
so sutl .factory anil made me
feel hj Mire thire can be no break be
tween .Mexico and the L'nlled States that
, n,V(.-lirJert(J thf demobillratlon of ,
tr. ops now In the bord-r districts and
their discharge from the national service ,
and ord.red the reopening of all public j
otllces along the border.
"I have als.o extended an invitation t I
fore'gnete. to return to Solium, and will
protect them and their property"
N. Y. MEN HAUL DOWN FLAG.
Ilexlrnns 4nser inierlrans nn Way
to the llorder.
rittrKARAVV, Okl-i., July 10 A regi
ment of the New York mllltla which
passed through this ilty last night on th
wav U ihe border hauled down a Ml.
can flag and put to rout a band of Mex
icans twenty miles north of her- In the
afternoon.
The Mexicans, twenty In number, were
at work on th- railroad. They hoisted a
Mexican flig on their tent and i-houtcd
"Viva In Mexlcana"' as the troop train
drew In a! the station This nngnred thj
soldiers, who ruhed from the train and
tore down the flag and chased the Mexi
cans several miles.
DYE SHORTAGE HITS PRIMARY.
Comiie-ts t linta ae In lliillol Color nf
American Party.
AinANY. July 10 The Secrepiry of
Sf.te. P anels M. Hugo, to-day des'g-u:it-d
the colors on which primary bal
lots must be printed by the several
political parties. The effect o the Hiiro
pean wn- s shown by the fart that, with
no scarlet dyo in Urn market, lerra eotta
has tiercNsailly been sulistltuted as the
color of p-.e ballots for tho American
pirty, hitherto printed nn scarlet paper.
Th- colors selected follow: Republi
can, cherry; Democratic, light green: In
dependence league, canary; American,
terra cotta ; Piolilbltlon, mandarin; Pro
gressive, light blue ; Solclallst, buff.
DASH BY PIRATE SCHILLER.
Meals Prison Wall at Atlanta, but
Is Recaptured.
Atlanta. Git,, July 10. Inspired by
the news of the arrival of the submarine
boat Doutsehl.ind fiom Germany, ICrnest
Schiller, "the pintle" who captured single
handed the British freighter Mataspo
and was mile need for life to the Atlanta
Kideral ptlson, made a dash for liberty
to-day.
While working In the tailor shop he
selred nn opportunity when the guards
seemed to relax th-lr vigilance, Schiller
scaled the prison wall and dropped to a
scaffolding ten feet below and then to
the ground. Meantime he wiih under Urn
from the guards, whose ehrds, however,
failed to hit. When he was within sight
ot success a teamster arrived and tripped
him. Then he ws easily captured.
SEARCHLIGHT SEEN 200 MILES.
Itrainrknble Claim far New I.antrrn
Constructed for Nnvy.
SoiiiiNKe.TAiiY. N. V.. July 10. Tha
most nowcrful searchlight In the world,
wltli a live root mirror, ine nennis ni
which are send to be visible nt more than
200 miles, has Just been completed at
the General Ulectrlc plant hero for the
United States navy. Several others are
In course of construction.
Thn Inventor la llelnrlen neck ot
Melnlngvn. Germany. Tenia In the
llronklvn navy yard and on the battle
ship Texas proved Its efficiency. It Is
evpo'tcil that the i-earch lantern, ns tho
Inventor calls it, will revniuiioiii-ee nigiu
slgni'lllng.
Be'llpsp nf Moon .Inly 1 I,
Washington, July 10, There will bo
n partial ecllpso of tho moon on July It,
visible at Washington, The first vlnlbll.
ity will bo In Africa, Houthwenti-ni
l-hirope, the Atlantic Ocean, North
America, South America and the south
Pacific Ocean- the. ending visible gen
erally In the Atlantic. Ocean, North anil
South America nnd tho south Pacific
Ocean, At the middle of the eclipse
right-tenths of the diameter of the
moon will be In the shadow vast by the
earth.
JERSEY ASKS N. Y.
RAILROAD INQUIRY
Starts Fiffht Against Alleged
Discrriuination on
This Shore.
CARRIERS ARE ASSAILED
Charged With Developing New
York Business on Arti
ficial Lines.
WasimnotoJ, July 10. The State of
New Jersey started a proceeding before
the Interstate Commerce Commission to
day that will result In an Investigation
of the entire subject of railroad termi
nals, lighterage anil freight rates of the
harbor in nnd nround New Votk. The
proceeding la Ionised on bv ofllclals of the
comm!nslon as exceedingly Important, as
It Involves praitlcully Un ntlro field of
railroad transportation In New VorV.
New Jersey, through a committee on
ways and meaim appointed by Gov.
Fielder, the Hoard of Navigation of New
Jersey nnd orgatilisatlonK of Newark, Jer-
iXr?h
regulation now In force illi-crlmlnate in
! favor of Ihe New- York side.
The Jersey aide, they contend. Is being
.charged extra for terminal erlees on
'il'ipments from the West, particularly n
charge of t- a iar for iirnnugnmcnt
rvicc irom tao ."sew ..eney u nnioais
rvlcc fr.
to nny p-i
any point in .ev I IfK llliro'ir. I-IOB
.er ce Kr-ni.'. at in- Term na.s
,'. f'w , "r . ,lcl,U'1 "" J""1""5
fide Is nit-" nsked
Tlu- P''lon upon which the eomml-
i slnu will undertake nn in.Uliy nys In
r" "'" rr. iuiik hi.- nii.r -
nn.,.,,nV . , ...
l. t"1'r..,h' nt f'S "nrro"
j . "'"'"'-'" '"'' . . e '
and befme referred to Vile bulne of
the port of New Wk has bee,, develo,.e,
alone wholly artificial In lieu of natural
Tl.e result is that the city ..' New
Jork hasbetome ro eong-stM w It, traf-
fie and the price , f 'and owing to this
art!! -Lilly created dent nd h.ii rlwil fo
hlgli that the expense of cnnduetli'g boi.i
n'ss on Manhat'nn Island has Income
..,,., Vents, high tar.es. high In-ur.
rate, congestion of the strr ets. i-on-
gevon at th" pier station
lloiw and shlppliic
jards nf the rall-o.i
L...WI . i i in.. ..k....m.
foodstufls eonsiim.il. th- vMu. of which
1- ...1 ...t ... , .-AnnAllAAA
'., """" '
pei annum wl'h th- -op.,,,ent heavy
co-i e,i nrnmaije. eMimate.i at ,,-.
per annum the o-s to the railroad.'
them.elve In e.rrjln goo s across the
biy and back ng.H'i. In son,- ci-es only'
for etorave. are nil a butdensoin.' tax
on business ronducte.1 at this port, which I'
cm only be completely removed by the,
irnrcTiny-iiirwi 01 ine port .1- n noi." null
utlllrlng the advantages of th- New Jer
sey shore and navigable waters near Its
great port "
BRITAIN THREATENS HOLLAND.
Will Mop ('ollon Imports If llnteh
Kxiinrt Mniinroi-tiireil Goods,
RoTTnnnvM, via London. July 10- The
.'(eiiiic ffoKerrfniiiscic Cotinnf pays
hat ijreat Itrllain has asked Holland to
top the export of manufactured goods,
o neutral countries, declaring that non-ompllani-c
will result In the stoppage of
lollnn d's cotton Imports.
The 7'eei'reiei says that the Allies are
merely c-on'enipl.it'ng meiisuies to pre.
vent the export of Dutch cotton goods to
Switzerland and Rumania, at. It has been
proved that such e-xpoits are really In
tended for Germany
MRS. TURNURE FIGHTS FIRE,
- -
llmnnlii Jiervnnt llrltcnili' When
l.luhtnlnv MrHi.- Vllln.
I.rNnx. Mass., July 10 Mri,. Geoigj
K. Tiirniiio of 113 I'.eM Thirty-sixth
street, Manhattan., wife of a New York
hardier and daughter of Charles I.anler,
with her corps or servants yesterday
fought a fire In lie-nipr-, the Tuinuro
villa, nnd saved It from burning.
Tho villa was. struck by lightning. Tho
holt burned a fuse in the cell.it and Ig
nited beams beneath the llliiuiy. Very
soon ii brisk fire had Marled, Mrs. Tur-
mi re, who was alone in the villa with
her servants, summoned rill the help In
the lllnce, The-y fought the fire with
hose while a part of the furniture
removed. So well directed was the tire
brigade that within half an hour the
names were put out, A hole was burned
In the library llonr and there win eon
slderahlo nam.'ige to books and furnish
ings.
U BOAT SERVICE WEEKLY.
North Grrninn l.loyd Manager Kas
It Is for All.
Carl von Helnmlt, general man.ig-r of
the North Gorman l.loyd, said yester
day that all the German merchant sub
merHlbleH Thnl might arrive at Ameil
can ports would report to ngenls of the
l.loyd, although the company does not
own them.
Mr. Hedmolt Intimated that there
might be a new ami bigger Miuadroii of
common-Mi submarines weekly in ser
vice before th- end of the war, which,
he said, would last long.
WON $15,000 ON SUBMARINE.
I' red tlosrhrr Reported to Hnve
f'leniied I'll on lieriunil Itoat.
A story wns circulated In Wall Street
yesterday tei the effect that l-'red Bosrhet,
a former number of the CoiisolSdiited Bx
chaug". i lenncil up belwecn Mn.ooo and
fir,, oiio on belt, uviile on the arrival of
the German niorchani submarine-,
It was teponrii mat iiowener nan neen
quietly taxing nets nt mg nuns :imt inn
llllilersri boat would not airlve and that
he cashed 111 yesletiliy
pot be found ycstcnin..
Bnschoi could
'I'oii Mhort, Hill lines In I'ront,
Tin War Department has agrud to
admit to eorvlco In Company M, l-'lfth
Regiment, now on the border, I.leut
Charles K. Mild, who wns rejected at ' British, nnd also on liiiuid tho Inlei u.'il . lien one .oiiiih io iniiih anoui n the
Sen Girt because hn was half nil Inch German embers Kmnprliu Wl'hehn w iling moo s. ml tine s forgot In mnkvi
short In stature and weirs rlns'is. lb' nnd Mitel ." Irl.-h Thn Mibin il Ine lins nuns hi tin y giieeeeu lit tin pur
It, ono of the ten best shiupahooti'i-s In I nnill em board fur the crewt ot the In- gold Hi I n um b- In dcu i this skip
,j regiment. I mined vessels. 1 i.or's leg bunk thoy uuderaUod that hues
BRITISH GORDON
FOR DEUTSCHLAND
Armed Motor Bonts, American
Built, to Line Three Mile
Limit Off Chesapeake.
ESCAPE WILL BE FEAT
Great Fleet of Submarine De
stroyers Being Hushed Over
From English Waters.
Wasiiinoton, July 10. Apart fr nn
diplomatic effort, to cause the ddentio-i I
of the German submarine Deutschland In
Ualtlmorc the Itrltlsli Government Is
preparing to block Its return voy.itfe bv j
means of a cordon of warships outside
i the three mile limit. It Is tinderstooo
I. .. ... ... . i
lo-uay mat. specially oimstrurieu nio-nr
uo.iis, or "siiumarine o.iicneis, as iih-.v
nro termed In the llrltlsh uiy. are to lie
dspnttlieil to the Virginia capes.
Five hundred of there motor l.ois
have done excellent worl; in the llrit's'i
'hannel. Mtny of them came nrielna'l)
from the t'nltul States tin:, run .1 a: 1
h:ie been oiulpp.il w.th three Inch gin
and their crcu. put 'through training to
letert ind run down the iimlt r.-i boats
It Is not known whether they are cox- i
Ir.g n ross the Atlantic under tln lr wn
poner or whetln-r tiny will l.j ur.iiu'.it
over on other miip
American nnv.il olltcers lure tin not
turn the opinion advanced by the G--mans
that it will be ,i very simple mat
ter to escape. They also ni sc-ptlcil
.V.....1 ..t.lll... ,1.. ll.nlu.l.Un.1 tr.
it-iui in.- .iioinj ,o i. , r.... "
remain mur 'i.iys unner w.ht ..i-v
admit however, that the Dem,-hltml
probably can make appreciable cp -ed
even at a depth of ion feet, and regard
thr task of ruimlr.g down the u.id-ii-e.i
... ...t- .lltll....!.
.JVi, nrJmlt , a
, fhp Rrc.,t .,.
HnUttrf , ,,,,. r.,p,ure. but tn-y
, , ,
I ,fi0k Th fop y,.. . inn,
, , . ,, ...i.i .ii ...i.,,.
i tin .-.-iv. Is the n ihicd cruising radius
' when submerged.
Whether liritltdi w-.irthlp can. uiu'er
Intel national law. Hie at the DetitJ.-h-I
land without warning Is n question s'lll
hn' , ;illp ,m, ivu'tschlnnd' Is entitled to
ll.-iis-,fd by ntlb-lals bete. As a ir r
SJ"'e prtvlligea as any inn. r n.er-
, V'
The Pnlted !atis Is on
n .....,,...llMr- ,ftMl ., r.1, , t I f 1 1 1 V
't', '- . . ....... ...
that n merchant ship must be w.i-iied,
, , H muM ,(, rnlM ,, t)mt
, r , , ,x.ri,j.Pl,
, ,, , ,
,.VV(. ., ,,,, ,,r,,ce nhn w,
, .. , . uf nrn ff.
f s ,.lH , mc t Jns
, .,,,
" "'u r""1'
SUBMARINE OFFICER
HERE WITH MAILS
Krnpolil Complains That Mo
tion of Train Nearly Makes
Him Sc.-iicl;,
Krans W. Kr.ipohl. first olllcer nf
the German submarine merchantman
Deutschland, arrlvi d In New York late
, , f Ilaltlmoro on his way to
.
me liciman eumnier rmearsy ,u i.ye.
N. Y. He i .u rili I thiee sacks of epeel.il
m.ill nnd wns accompanied by llanlel
vmi llalmhausen. counsellor of tho em
bassy, Coming from Haltlmore Krnpnhl com
plained of the motion eif the train, hay
ing :
"If this keeps up I will get seasick,"
He explained that the Deutschland
runs nn smoothly that one could play a
Kume of billiards within her at a depth
of llfleen to twenty meters.
Reminded th-it all commerce vesi.els
entering the waters of the United States
must cirry sutllcleiit life saving eb v.ccs,
the llrst other wild the Deutschland was
equipped with lifeboats anil lifebelts.
Krapohl said that early In June the
Deutschland was visited by Prince
Henry of Prussia, brother of the German
Emperor, nnd his wife Prince Henry
P.,.io, p.mtnln Knenle with an nolo
',,,, iintnranh of himself, to which
,,'.,. ,. .,, ,.,,,.,,, ....
Prince. The Kngllsh tianslatlon fol
lows: H) TUT KI11ST HERMAN CllMM Kllt'i:
pchmauim:.
"To Inlllr and tl K lit l tun our ea.li
Vcnir inlimlon l one nf 1 1 ireful tri'le
i.o un, then, iloil peel -.on anil lilise the
trip.
Ilo t-nuisKenu. and t.rnvo s. true iletman
are
All Oeriuany wlnh- ynu. from lh depth.
of lie heart.
Good luck and s safe return ho:n- "
Princesa Irene presented tho crew
with n sliver star mounted on a took
wood plaque, On the star was engiuvi-d
ii picture of the Deutschland, The
plaque was piac-u on ill" Mainiiarn
sine m ine central e-nniro, s,a on i ine,
Deutschland, On tho port side of the i
station wns placed a copy of Prim i.
Henry s poem
CARGO ZEPPELIN COMING, TOO.
So Says Amsterdam Ti'IIIiik of tier
iiiiiid'b I.atrst Plan.
fiprcM Cnhtf liftuUrh to Tnr Sis,
Ammkhpam, July 10, Thorn Is n
rcheme on foot in Germany for the
formation of a "Transatlantic Zeppelin
l-'relBht nnd Piisscngor Service."
The llrst iilislilp, one of Ihe new type
of riiper-'eppetlns, will arrlvn at nn
,Amirlran port some time In the middle
nf ,,1(:UPt f tn ,,aiw ,,i HerlalUe. Its
,,, w)11 , -.Denlsehl, nil," and It
will cany a large cargo of dyes nnd
i hemic, lis, malls, and pn.isllil-. sninc p.is
sengers. Interned t rews IVIilirnllua.
,,'oi:i-oi.k, V i . .lull 10.-
The ni rival
of the p'.iitM'lilnnd wan celebrated to -
ilav on thn Appini, eiptiired fiom the
DEFIANTOFFOE
KOENIG SINGS
ONDERSEASAGA
"llam-il Door of Germany
Unlocked," Insists Skipper
of J)eutseliluiil.
SIIM'IvI) rirAJIPAOXE
AS KXKMY SEAKCIIED
'Sat on Floor of Kiijrlish
Channel Ieeaiie Destroy
ers Covered Ifool'."
(iKAIMHC ItKCiTAL OF
:!.()() 31 ILK VOYAGE
(i iiimi jii 'I'iiii D-IVc.
c. ... . ! hi.;.. ii'mi
Pit,! mUHI'l iNlipS III
Sunn W on Way Jlere.
I!ai.ti.moi:b, July 10.- It w.i.s Paul
Kooni-.', skiinr of tiio wolid'rf tlttt
deep diving tn.-n-liiiiltniati, telling the
reporter liow hi.- n.uuii hlatid played
hi-r pielty Kanif of hide and neck with
nny which does not appreciate der-
nilin )luI1ir
"And we Hat down upon the floor of
tho lintish t'iiiinm-l," ho chuckled,
'b'caiiKe the roof vva.s crowded with
nosy de-Hovers nnd wo drank good
on iiiiiniugne wniia wo sang
In mil champagne wlilhi o
.. ,..... ...
Our 1-lrmers. nnd Rolls.
"ii our fiies,' nnd pneontly the de
Etroyer." ti.ivv us room un the roof nnd
vvu c.'iiu" up nnd went on to America.
It wns nil Just an simple as that, I toll
you."
The little man- he i.i no figure of a
Viking, this forty-inne-year-oUI 'sea
iiilventiirer from tho TlmritiKiun for
est had a llooel of words ten ilp.sc.rl be
such cplu pranks a thin and .one
could see that lie Invert to let hln mind
Jwcll on the recollection of that mid
night chiinpiiKno supper horvcrt to
ecp throated mui-t 200 feet or so
underneath the chop ,f the Channel.
H.a brown eyes, oyis without a
shadow- of mal '-e In them and marked
at their outer corners by radiating
Inn '.-.-rinklcs, sparkled as hu poured
out his story to fifty men whoso busi
ness it was to match their wits n-jalnst
his to get the facts some facta at
le.ist that Ills ellscretlon had pad
locked. Kuvlmiles lle'iieirter Mionli.
To tell the truth the one had tho
better of the mutch u'iiln.st the llfty,
for Paul Koviilg, who Usui to com
mand the Prlnzem Irene eif the North
GtrmJii Lloyd's Mediterranean service,
,s n clever dlp.oinat. ns .shrewd nt
vioi-d fencing ns h- at naviiiating his
undersea bo-it. He re veiled what lie
hi the German poners that be dr -sired
t" he revealed. That w..s al!
Hut It was enough to spre-art out a
moM engaging narrative of tlie
Deiitschlaii.l's'S.'-OO ni:le Journey from
lin-merh iveii to llilgoluiul uml from
Hi-lgol.inil to the Virginia capes and
Baltimore, a vey.u;e of twenty days, all
told
He was delightfully modest In the
telling The man was absolutely
iiliiiir.til 'it fir fuss that 1ms been made
over h:m. iiMi'iilshed becauso thi news
p.ipris have printe-il columns about
him, siirpiiscd that nny emu should
want to photograph him.
"What is there about myi voyage to
cause all this crimination?" lie asked In
his tin. tit llngllsli, VMtli barely the
hint of a German accent. "I have
lone nothing icnmrk.ihlo. Anybody
who has sense enough to nuvlgnte a
boat and who builds a boat likn th
Deutseliliind can I e i-qually well but
ter, I b-lleve."
llnlldliiK 1!,000 Ton Hunt.
Among his earerly told n-iiiinlscences
nf the submarine's humorous adven
tures and his slow, i-ari ful explanation
of tin- Intimate and iinji riant matters
c-iinnectcil with tin- liu 'ilillg, the op
erntlon nml the future of the Di'titsch
lil'ld were llaHlles of patriotic pilde,
f'njit Koenlg will hive It no other
vvny than that tho British grip on Ger
man i-oiiimi'icu Is hhortls in be broken,
We linve (iriiviil It," lie snlil. Ills c)r
allre with eiitliii-liisin, "We are Inill.l-
I in; J .lion ton siitiniHrliies Hint will be
s),p , ,., ,, ,
,,.,, ,,,,, un A,, , nrH,
,, rll1.,, Wl. ,,.,, , ,,,
, 1Mllli ,,, , ,, tUiK
I lie polnti d to the house Hag of thu
j npuiKoher ozean Itheiierei, the cor
poration of Hi-emeu w'llih ilcvlscd the
limb r."i'ii trading plan
"l.o.ik' now ami lol, well It Is the
Hag of the old clt of Bremen, ted nnd
vv.ile sir. pei with .1 key i.et In a i-r
nor of the rn.it of iiini" That key
Hi- ki'mli.il of our vlituiv over the Dili.
r,',tl,,i of the s- i U It h It wo have
Upoei (eil the baiicl door and the door
u M , h! .1K.Un "
a ,lnni lieie shone 111 the eye
, t ,i,i, :1,,oi- alnuist fanatic. At
j t(l ,llmi '. tin- i -put t.-r.s chiatercl all
llbolll ll.li' II'1 in ire to n. in Ulliu mi
llililiv weoiH'li nnniej n.s iiii.-igiii.uiou
Imil inn I"' ah. ,l ' ril. i tile .v Mia ami
w s swiiivjiiu, grii'dl). Pri suilly ho re-,-allod
hiniH'lf with a sirt cf Jerk to
the run of ins -loiy. i elating It In the
liimi o' n Pile- In tie' iUCi tloil tbut
show 'ii I upon bin
1 Ileum u Hint stoiy -Hie fli st of Its.
umii evi-i i.-l m v.-iirld-u hlstorv.
1
,1
