TFI iST A.NGIAL EDITION
icuening
itft$?t
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
VOL. H. NO. ,257
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, JULY 11, 1010.
Corimonr, 1019. bt inaPcstio Lcoou Counm.
PBIOU3 OKJB CENT
Ws
m-
ss :
&"
fe'"
BRITISH TROOPS
STORM AND WIN
CONTALMAISON
Keystone Position East of
Albert Recaptured by
English
FRENCH FIRM AT VERDUN
i
Repulse Fierce Gecman Attacks
-' on Meuse Close in on,
Peronne
BERLIN, July 11. Ilcpnlae of Strong
British attacks on both Isldca of the
Bapnumc-Albcrt highway,) between the
Ancre and the Sommc, was announced
'by the War Office this afternoon.
The nttaclcing enemy forces were
mowed down by German fire before they
came, to close fighting.
Contalmaison, keystone position on
tlio Ancre River front and a villago of
great strategic importance 'in the ad
'vanco of thr? British toward Barmumo,
is once more in the handp of General
Haig's troops. It was recaptured from
tho Germans last night by storm, tho
British War Office announced todny.
Tho recapture of Contalmaison marks
tho culmination of n great struggle that
has been raging' for the village since
tho beginning of tho Allied offensives,
during which tho British took tho vil
lage, July 7, but were later compelled
to surrender it back to the Germans.
Contalmnison lie3 between the Ancro
and Sommo Rivers about eight miles
south of Bapaumo, tho immediate ob
jective of the British in tho great Anglo-French
drive for the Peronne-Ba-paume-Cambral
railway.
Further east, the British stormed
enemy trenches in Mamotz wood, tho
greater part of which is now in their
possession. Heavy fighting continues
in Trones wood, north of Hardccourt.
German troops launched a powerful
attack against French works northeast
of Verdun at 4 o'clock this morning,
after an intense bombardment extend
ing from Fleury to the Chenois wood,
tho French War Offico reported this
afternoon.
East of the Chenois wood and in
F;umin wood, the Qermans occupied ad
vanced French trenches, but wero later
driven out.
Tho French War Office admitted that
German troops entered 200 yards of
French trenches in Lorraine east of
Roillon. ' '
' Twenty-two villages, all fortified to
the highest degreo of which tho Ger
mans are capable, havo been captured
by tho Anglo-French armies since tho
great offensive of tho Sommo began
10 days ago.
Peronne, lying a bare milo across tho
Sommo front from the French' advanced
lines, and the next important prizo to
ward which tho French are advancing,
lies almost within grasp of General
Foch's army.
Dispatches from French headquarters
today showed that the village of
Biaches, one mile from Peronne, was
captured by tho French in the same
dashing spirit that drove the enemy out
of Dompierre, Hardccourt and other
strongly fortified points.
BRITISH FORCES ON ANCRE
WIN CONTALMAISON IN SECOND
ASSAULT UPON VILLAGE
L
LONDON, July H.
. After a bloody battle, which was marked
no less by the violence of the direct at
tacks than by tho fury of the counter
assaults of the Germans, the English are
again In the shell-ruined village of Con
talmaison on the Sommo front.
Official announcement qf the recapture
of Contalmaison was made by the British
War Office at noon.
The British had previously taken the
town, after It had been shattered by
artillery five, but had to give It up.
Contalmaison was first captured on 'the
Continued on fare Nine. Column Two
THE WEATHER
This is the time of tho year when the
Jce dlssoJveB partnership with the refrig
erator just when you want It to stick
around. The Inhumanity of Ice is Indicative
of the coldness of the world in general, the
pessimists say. But Ice' would not be so in
different If we would watch it and coyer It
with blankets on such hot days to keep It
together. It might seem strange to say
that you ought to beep Ice warm when it's
hot, but If you do, It will become much at
tached, to itself and not run away until
' after the sun goes down. To show that the
world lives by contrasts, Just notice what
a hot Job It la for the iceman to deliver his
material and then see; how cod ho can be
the same day If you don't have the money
for the ice bill. No one Is any warmer or
colder than they want to' be. The weather
la .incidental,
FORECAST .
For Philadelphia and vicinity Gen
erallu aV and moderately warm io
night and Wednesday, with high Ait
midity; gentle, southerly winds,
iosT and voywa
- i
I'OUND An easy way to plan a vacation. So
cure a copy of tha Ttt-pape Summer ItcJort
Uulcla publUhed free by tba Public Ledscr. Get
It at l-cAier Centra or tba Main Office.
UMUKKLLA Arcadia Film .Theatre reaueaU
tn peraoa who Monday nujht borrows J an
urabrell -ftitb a duck a bead andlj return to
manager. .
liAG Lost, black ellk. bag, silver tou. contain-In:.-
money and dpairtran( mors coin, Monday
eventasr. on JleaJln? roaq front Atlantic City,
or Elevatsd to S24 rt. BewarJ, u 1M.
tiatef r .Central
Other Lett Hd Vsvai Ads an; It
CHECK OF ALLIES' PUSH PRELUDE
TO PEACE, BERLIN EXPERTS THINK
, r i
By CARL W. ACKERMAN
BERLIN, July 11 The great Allied offensive will end in defent within
a few weeks and will be followed by negotiations for peace, in the opinion of
well-informed persons in Berlin.
Tho check administered to the British in the death struggle north of the
Sommo has given rise to the national hope that peaco will follow the fighting
in Picardy, which has been marked by unprecedented slaughter. Tho German
people arc virtually a unit in believing thnt tho attempt of tho Allies to force
the German lino is doomed to failure.
Except on one narrow sector the British havo been unable to mako any
perceptible impression on tho Gorman lines, despite their overwhelming su
periority in men. Impetuous dashes have frequently carried General Haig's
men into German positions, where they were immediately cut off and killed
or captured. The French, more prudent, havo made some progress south of
tho Sommc, but thu3 far neither French nor British have developed the
powerful attack necessary to completely break tho deadlock in the west and
roll tho Germans out of Franco and Flanders.
Tho feeling prevails hero that when tho extent of tho British losses be
comes fully known in England, coupled with tho fact that tho German front
Btlll remains intact, public opinion will demand that peace bo made without
further slaughter.
German experts are quite certain that the British will never quit tho
attack without first feeling out other sectors of tho German front in the
hope of finding an opening.
But they arc confident thnt tho British will have no greater success
against tho strongly fortified lines further north thnn they have had bewcen
the Ancre and the Sommc.
Some of tho more optimistic of tho German correspondents, notnbly tho
correspondent at the front of tho Voasischo Zeitung, believe that tho Allied
offensive already has been brought to a standstill.
CONVENTION HALL
MAY COST DOUBLE
UNDER NEW PLANS
Greater and More Ornate
Structure Provided in
Revised Project
OFFICIALS MUST ACT
Philadelphia will havo a much more
commodious and ornato Convention Hall
than tho one originally planed If Mayor
Smith and tho members of tho Art Jury
npprovo In detail the plans that hayo been
completed by John . Windrin, the archi
tect. Cost of the structuro will bo doublo
the original ,e.sttmato of 1.COO,000 and Its
completion will be dependent upon tho city
authorising futuro loans for tho work.
Mayor Smith, who has Just signed n bill
appropriating $20,000 toward the construc
tion of tho hall at 21st Btreot and
tho Parkway, . Is anxious that work bo
started this fa'll and means to urgo tho
prompt advertisement for estimates for
construction. There Is available at this
time Jl, 118,000, In addition to the Just
authorized $20,000, and this sum is deemed
BUfllclent to get the building well under
way
Tho plans as drawn are said to meet
tho approval of tho Mayor, but ho has not
yet taken final action on them. Until this
la dono they will not be mado public in
detail. The building is expected to havo a
seating capacity sufficiently large to house
any gatherings that may be held In this
city. Tho monster nudltorlum will be di
vided Into sections, so that halls for either
largo or small conventions can be accommo
dated either separately or on tho samo day,
Pesdlhg the Btart of work on the new
bulldmg. tho present Convention Hall, at
Broad street and Allegheny avenue, will be
used for publlo gatherings.
MRS. WELSH'S COUNSEL
ALtO WED FEE OF $35
Thomas Ridgway Had Asked for
$10,000 No Increase in
Alimony
Thomas Rldgway, attorney .for Mrs.
Helen Gallatin Welsh In her .divorce suit
against Charles N. "Welsh. Philadelphia
clubman, was awarded $35 today as coun
sel's fee. He had asked for $10,000. The
award was ma4e In Commqn Pleas Court
No. 3.
Tha Codrt said there was nothing to Indi
cate that any difficulty or labor was re
quired In presenting' the llbellant's a case.
In the Bt'.lt against her husband Mrs.
Welsh mado -a claim for an Increase In
alimony from $6000 to $11000 a month. This
was also refused by the court, which ordered
that the original payments. continue.
Evening Ledger Circulation
. ' For Six Months)
Daily Average for January , . . 99,214
Daily-Average for, February . . 104,115
Daily Average for March 110,721
Daily Average for April . . . 117,310
Daily Average for May, 122,011
Daily Average for June, 125,808
The foregoing figures represent qctual net paid circula
tion of this newspaper, eliminating all returned and free
copies,.
VILLA LURES MEN
FROM CARRANZA;
6000 "DISAPPEAR"
E)l Paso Hears Prediction
I First Chief Will Be
Overthrown
U:S. WATCHES BOTH SIDES
Villa Calls Upon Mexicans
i'o Make War on United States
l EL PASO, Tex., July 11. A proc
lamation bearing the name of Fran
cilco Villa has been received here,
nduresscd to tho people of Mexico
anil calling them to arms. They aro
udred to "combat the aggression of
thd United Stntes."
The proclamation declares that
Villa has recruited the central corps
of d. new army and will at once pro
ceed north and give bnttlo to tho
American army in Mexico. There is
no indication in the proclamation of
tho
place where it was issued.
EL PASO, Texas, July 11. Mutiny and
desertilon are rapidly depleting tho ranks
of Cajrranza's army, nccordlng to reports
which
defect
reached hero today. With each new
on of troops from tho do facto Gov
it standard, tho forces of "Pancho"
ire strengthened. In some quarters
ernme,
Villa
the prediction was made today that In CO
days iFlret Chief Carranza will be over
throw! and that Villa wilt rulo Mexico, or,
at lenst, tho northern division of It.
TheiState Department nt Washington has
been Informed of every fresh development
In tho crisis, nnd the rapid ascension of
VlllaJ promises to lend a new twls&tto the
diplomatic situation. '
MAY HAVE JOINED BANDIT.
Mexican official reports, as Issued at
Juarez, are unusually conservative where
theylare not flatly contradictory. The latest
repqtt from that sldo told how 2000 Car-
Continued on Fate Tito, Column Six
BOY'S HEAD BLOWN OFF
Elffht-Year-Old, of Boyalton, Accident
ally Discharged Gun
HkRRISBURG, Pa., July ll. Jacob
Wtljtlam Selders, of Itoyalton, aged 8, was
playjng with a shotgun at a neighbor's
houe this morning, and his head was blown
off; when the weapon was accidentally dls
charged. Jacob Holllnger, aged 12, who
way near, gave tho alarm, but the boy was
deaty when a physician arrived.
U-BOAT TRADER TO BRAZIL
Sister Ship of Deutschland Expected
at Rio Soon
mo DE JANEIRO, July 11. The State
Chancellor has been officially Informed that
a sister sl)lp to the supersubmarlne Deutsch..
land is now crossing the Atlantic and will
arrive here wthln ten days, the newspaper
&ua louuy ueuimcu.
FIERCE BATTLE
ON AS RUSSIANS
APPROACH GOAL
Slav Patrols Which Crossed
Stokhod Retire Before
Superior Numbers .
23 MILES PROM KOVEL
Teutons Set Forests on Fire to.
Stem Sweping Onrush
of Czar's Armies
PBTItOOnAD, July 11.
Tho main Russian army of General Kale
dlnea In Volhynla, which Is driving against
tho Brent German base of Kovel nlong the
Klov railway from Sarny, Is now less than
23 miles from Its objective.
Russian patrols which crossed the Stok
hod nivcr In tho faco of violent resistance
from General von Llnslngon's Austro-Gcr-mnn
troops, havo reached points many miles
nearer to Kovel, but Is is understood thnt
they had to retire before superior numbers.
Fierce rearguard battles aro being fought
by tho Austro-Germnn armies, particularly
nlong tho Stokhod, whero the rotrcntlnB
forces blew up nil the bridges and planted
gunn to sweep tho crossings.
South of the Snrny-Kovel Itallroad (the
Kiev Railway), nnd between tho Styr and
Goryn Rivers, tho Germans have set fire
to tho forests to Impede the Russian nd
vnncc. Huge conflagrations, whoso glnro lights
up tho night and whoso pall obscures the
noonday sun, has succeeded In some quar
ters in covering tho German retreat, the
Russians being unable to pass nlong thu
highways leading through, tho burning
forests.
Tho retreating Austro-German armies In
Volhynla aro leaving a desolate country In
their wnko. Railroads aro being torn up
and brldgeH turned behind tho retreating
forces. Farm bulldlngB aro burned nnd
every nrllclo that might help tho advancing
troops is, destroyed.
Although heavy fighting Is in progress
north of tho Prlpet marshes and In Gall
cla, principal Interest ccntreB upon tho
mighty engagement In Volhynla, where a
decisive victory for tho Russians would
compel a realignment of tho Austro-Germnn
forces and open the way for an ad
vanco ngnlnst tho fortrcHscs which foil dur
ing tho Austro;G.ermnn offensive last sum
mer. Svldnlkl, on tlio Stokhod, about which
there Is violent fighting, is expected to
bo In Russian hands very soon, according
to ofllclal advices from the front.
Tho Russian onrush Is the centre of the
Stockhod Ecctor was so' swift and so sudden
thnt almost before the German bugles had
sounded retreat tho troops of Bruslloff were
storming tho positions on the near bank of
tho river and snbrlng stragglers on the
heels of the main force.
Tho Teutons hardly had time to rush
across tho main bridge at Ugll and save
themselves, leaving their puns on tho Rus
sians' side of tho river. Onco across tS
stream they Bet flro to tho bridge at sev
eral "places. Under violent artillery and
Contlnnrd on Vate Nine, Column Four
JERSEY PASTOR, GIRL
ANMRAY AUTO GONE;
POLICE HUNT FOR PAIR
Rev. Louis N. Joslin, Monroeville,
and Miss Nettie Laflferty, of
Pitman, Missing Since
Friday
WARRANT ISSUED FOR HIM
Pollco of Camden, Philadelphia and sev
eral' towns in New Jersey are searching to
day for a Ford touring car, painted gray
and 'bearing New Jersey tag No. 72333, In
which the Hev, Louis II. Joslin, pastor of
Friendship and Monroeville Methodist Epis
copal churches, near Monroeville, N. J left
Jiome Friday. lie has not been seen since.
About the same time Miss Nettle Laf
ferty, of Pitman, J I years old, who had
attended the Monroeville Church, also dis
appeared. Mrs. Joslin swore out a warrant
yesterday for her husband's arrest, charg
ing him with desertion and asserting her
belief that ho had eloped with the pretty
member of his church.
SHE WAS MEMBER OF CHURCH.
Miss Lafferty had been a member of
Friendship Church during the two years
Mr, Joslin had charge. They met for the
first time when the pastor outdated at her
brother's funeral. Mrs. Joslin was also
there at tho time.
Later the girl visited the pastor's home,
attending members of the minister's family
while they were sick. Mrs. Joslin said to
day she thought nothing of the unusual
friendliness of her husband and thd girl at
that time, but now realizes "what was
golpg on."
SHE WAS BOOKKEEPER.
Miss Lafferty had boarded,ln Pitman for
nearly two years. For the last -six months
she has been a bookkeeper for Charles
Iteilly,, a milk dealer In Pitman. Before
that she kept books for the Park Tea Room
In Pitman. She first appeared In Pitman
vvtth Joslin and his family. She was taken
to a boarding house conducted by Mrs. W.
D. Rodgers. at 52 Caeton street, Pitman,
and Introduced there.
Nothing In the girl's manner aroused sus
picion, of Pitman .women. Mrs. Rodgers re
fused to believe her boarder went away with
the minister. There was not the least sus
picion of any extraordinary frlenrship be
tween the two.
Miss Lafferty la dark, with a thin figure
and a studious expression. She was not
of a type to attract attention. Pitman
knew her as a quiet young woman who
kept much to, herself and spokp seldom of
her aftoirs.
On Friday eh told Mrs. Rodger she was
going to Vineland, N- J , ta see a. physician
QUICK NEWS
ST. LOUIS ,stG-. 2 1 1 4 0 0 '0
ATHLETICS. . 00000 3 0
Koob and Sevcrold; Hasselbacher and Murphy.
, AMERICAN LEAGUE'
CLEVELAND O 02OO000G-2 68
NEW YORK, 1st g... 3 0050000 X- S SO
Beebe and Billings; Cullop and Walters. ' '
CHICAGO O OIOO
BOSTON, 1st u 1 O 4 O O
Danforth and Schalk; Ruth and Cady.
. DETROIT, 1st g O 1 2" 1 O -
WASHINGTON.... O OOIO -
i
t
AQUEDUCT RACING RESULTS ,
f 'x . ' .
First, race,- 2-year-olds, selling. $000, 5 furlongs Mario Odllc,
110, McCahey, 0 to 2, 8 to g.and 7 tp-lo, won; Choor, 109, Tnplin,
1 to 5, 1 to 4 andfcut, second; Mlrza, 114, Gnrner, 12 to l,t 5 to 1 and
5 to 2, third. Time, 1.01.
SECOND U-BOAT LINER NOT HEARD FROM IN MONTH
LONDON, July 11. An Exchange- Tolcgraph dispatch from
Copenhagen quotes the German newspaper Vorsiseho Zeitung as
stating that tho Doutschland'a sisfcr submarine merchantship foremen
left Kiel for the United States a month ago and has not been, heard
from since.
, "UNCLE JOE" ASSAILS PRESIDENT WILSON'S POLICIES
WASHINGTON, July 11. A resolution asking an appropriation
of ?300,000 to get Americans out of disturbed districts of Mexico todar
brought from "Undo Joe" Cannon a vigorous denuncatlon of the Ad'
mnistration's Mexican policy and sharp criticism of the President's
Detroit speech. '
DUTCH STEAMSHIP SUNK BY A. SUBMARINE
YMUIDEN, Holland, July 11 The Dutch steamship GeertruidA
has been sunk by a submarine. Nine members of the crew wero saved.
KING OF MOONSHINERS MORTALLY SHOT
RALEIGH, N. C, July 11. After evading arrest for four years,
Ed" Harmon, known as the "king of North Carolina moonshiners,"
was fatally shot by revenue officers today. He held six officers at
bay for four fours, wounding one, before he was brought down, by
four blletc.
MAYOR SIGNS IMPROVEMENT BILLS
Mayor Smith today signed tho bill appropriating $10,000,000 for port Improve
ments, two authorization bills specifying tho work for which this money is to be
spent by tho Department of "Wharves, Docks and Ferries and tho bill appropriating
$500,000 from tho general loan for Improvement of tho city's water supply. Other
bills signed by tho Mayor appropriate $3,300,000 for condemning railroad property
In South Philadelphia for port Improvements and $3,460,000 for the construction of
a free library building at 19th street nnd tho Parkway.
GOAT MEAT SOLD FOR MUTTON, STATE OFFICIALS SAY
Philadelphia dealers havo been selling goat meat for mutton and have gotten
themselves Into trouble, according to word Tecelved here today from the headquar
ters of tho Food nnd Dairy Division at Harrlsburg, Investigations have been mado
all over the State and CO arrests will bo made, A large number of these will bo in
Philadelphia. Other accusations are that dealers have been selling ketchup made
from tomatoes not in good condition, lard that does not contain fat of pork and
soft drinks that aro adulterated.
FRANKFORD ARSENAL SEA WALL TO BE FINISHED
The work of repairing the sea vail at the Frankford Arsenal along the Frank
ford Creek will now be pushed to completion, Secretary of War Uaker today having
sent an additional estimate to Congress for the arsenal, in which ho recommended
$23,400 for the repair of the wall. The work was begun some time ago, but lock
of funds caused a temporary suspension.
P. R. R. FUMIGATES CARS TO CHECK INFANT PLAGUE
A step to guard against the spread of lnfanjtllo paralysis has been taken by the
Pennsylvania Railroad. The company has ordered the thorough fumigation of
all passenger cars operated In and out of New York city. As long as the epidemic
continues In New York all cars used on picnic or excursion trains will be cleansed
and fumigated before being returned to the passenger service. The order Issued
by the railroad officials calls for the fumigation at least once a day of all passenger
and baggage cars used In the service between New York and Philadelphia, in so far
as practicable, Similar arrangements will apply to trains operated In and out of
Jersey City. (
RUSSIANS SINK GERMAN SHIP LADEN WITH ORE
PETROGRAD, July 11. An official statement says that "one of our submarines
in the Baltic, In the course of Its usual cruise, sank a large German steamship- loaded
with Iron ore In the Gulf of Bothnia."
TROOPS OF FOUR ALLIES TO MARCH IN PARIS
PARIS, July ll. With the progress of the offensive Paris has become gayer
than at any moment since the beginning of the war, A. notable change has taken
place In tho last few dayd. The official parade of July 14 wll Illustrate the new
spirit. On that day, following the ceremony at the Invalldes. French, English, Rus
sian and Belgian troops from the front will march down the Champs Klyseea through
the boulevards, thus permitting the first patriotic demonstration of the war.
FIVE PLANES, TWO BALLOONS LOST TO ALLIES
BERLIN, July 11. An ofllclal statement Issued last night says: "Our aviators
shot down five enemy aeroplanes, ,one near Nleuport, two near Cambral, two near
Bapaume, and two captive balloons, one on the Sommo and the other on the Meuse,
Benlor Lieutenants Wall and Gerllet have put put of action their fourth opponent,
Lieutenant Lefler his fifth and Lieutenant Parschau his eighth. The Emperor has
bestowed upon the last named the Order Pour Id Meclte."
MORGAN TO TAKE BULK OF NEW FRENCH LOAN
LONDON, July 11. Reports have reached London that Morgan, the Guaranty
Bt Company and Lee Klgglnson are
prepared to carry the bulk vt tba new
U. S. NAVY MEN
BOARD U-BOAT
AFTER CLASH
Three Visit Deutschland
With Approval of Am
bassador Bernstorff
AGENTS HAD BARRED THEM
Germans Anxious to Establish
tho Status of Visitor as a
Merchant Ship
WASHINGTON, July 11. Great
Britain and France will do everything
in their power to prevent the United
States recognizing the supcr-submarino
Deutschland as a ship of commerce and
to prevent the operation of a line of
submarine freight carriers proposed by
the North German Lloyd Steamship
Company. This was admitted at tho
Embassies of the two Governments
today.
BALTIMORE, July 11. United States
naval experts, after a vigorous controversy
today, mado a detailed examination of the
German supersubmarlne Deutschland, which
mado a record-breaking transoceanic trip.
Under Instructions from Count von
Bornstorff, tho German Ambassador, Cap
tain Koenlg, of the submarine, allowed
Captain C. E. Hughes, Lieutenant Com
mander J. O. Flshor nnd Naval Constructor
II. S. Howard, of thO'Navy Department, to
Inspect tho vessel. Tho German agents
of tho line which owns the Deutschland,
headed by Paul HUkcn, flatly refused to
allow the naval officers to board tho ship
without permission from Count von Corn
storff, and thoy kept tho experts on shore
until the Ambassador, from New York,
had advised that tho Inspection bo per
mlttcd.
PLAN TO BREAK BLOCKADE.
Count von Bcmstorff'a decision ended a
sorloua controversy. Tho United States of
ficials had notified the Germans that tho In
spection was their legal duty and that they
proposed to proceed with It. The Ger
mans declared that they would allow no
one on board the vessel without express per
mission of the Ambassador. Only prompt
communication with Count von Bernstorff
prevented, a serious altercation.
Tho Ambassador's decision made It ap
parent that the German officials are de
termined to go to almost any lengths to e
tabllsh the status of tho Deutschland as a,
tojxhant ship and thus form tho basis for
h. "aiplomatlo fight to break the British-
French blockade of German ports.
MOVING SLOWLY.
. Fearful of tho slightest slip In the caro
tfully laid German plan to break the block
ade, tho German agents moved slowly.
Capaltn Koenlg, of the Deutschland, Jiad
already announced his Intentlonof allowing
Captain Hughes to make any "official" ex
amination, but tho agents of the line later
called tho skipper of the craft to their office
for a conference.
"There Is something of a question In my
mind," said llllken as the conference began,
"as to the right of an American naval offi
cer to make ari Inspection of our vessel. "We
will object to no proper' Inspection and we
are anxious toi comply with every formal
lty. Wo want ip be sure that everything Is
legal. But wo iVwst bo certain that the law
demands this Inspection."
Count von Bernstorff will visit the subma
rine at once. It was stated at the German
Consulate.
Officials of the I Deutsche Ozean-Rhederel,
owners of the submarine, said that the
Ambassador had notified them that ha
wished to visit this ship and talk with Cap
tain Paul Koenlgl The visit of Count von
Bernstorff Is expucted to make clear tha
diplomatic contentions which Germany will
press If It can be .established to the satis
faction of the tinned States that the
DeutBchland la a merchant vessel and en
titled to nil of the privileges of a trader.
DISPATCHES lTROM BERLIN.
There was much speculation as to the
nature of the dispatches brought from
Germany by the Deutechland, and deliv
ered directly to Counselor Hahlel von
Halmhausen, who hurried them to Am
bassador von Bernstorlf. Some of these
dispatches undoubtedly bear upon the Ger
man diplomatic contentions as to tha
Deutschland. I
The German Interests, centred all their
efforts on the task of establishing the mer-,
chant status of the new phlp. Encouraged
by the customs officials land the Treasury
Department of their corftentlon, they pre
pared to convince the (State Department,
that the submarine can In no way be
classed, aa a warship.
On this contention Is based the whole
Cont'nuMl on Vare Two. Column Thrt
WEALTHY MAN SLAIN
BYHBtOUNGWIFE
'He Won't Bother $Ie Any More
She Says After Firing
Fifth Shot
CALDWELL, N. J., July 11. Mrs. Hats,
garet Bev linger, beauttful young wife oft
Christopher Beutlnger, wealthy New York,
coal dealer, shot and killed her husband
today when he broke Into her bedroom af n?
setera!, hours, of violent quarreling.
The first shot pierced Beutluger's brain.
BU wife fired four wore shot lata la
prostrate body. and. turning to John Cum
uungs. a gutst, wb& rustwd tato tb bl "
room, remarked ;
"t lays anbrht him tM timet h wont !'
bother me Mar mat,"
Sn f wlt (sotA when pia4 ui.,lv r
arrwW CWE M vovm Harjrtr mm
t
-u, ,. .! ... -
CiurtUuMsa bo fae JCwe, Ch
hch loan in the United States.
if ST
1 1 hi riii i in Tin jitii iijr ii i
n , -J
i tk& mw9f ii
