' "Mr. Jisss"
The Irrepressible Jiggs, Has His
Troubles This Morning
fUcfimottd STimes - iB isn at c
Fox's Comics
In The Times-Dispatch, Amuse
Young and Old Every Day
?Gth YEAR
voiai.MB ?I?
MIMUKII l?-'.
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, JULY 11, 1916. ?SIXTEEN PAGES.
w i:.\TiiL:it
r \?;u r?
-CLOUDY
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
Occupy Hill Which Domi
nates Sommc Southeast
of Biachcs.
BRITISH AND GERMANS
IN DESPERATE FIGHTING
Teutons Enter Trones Wood
After Six Attacks, at Expense
of Heavy Casualties.
DltlVK AT VKKDt'N t'ONTI NL'I'S
Kusvians, in I'tortpss Toward Kovel,
Are Crossing Kiver
Stokhod.
The French. in their operations
*outft of the .Sommc, have advanced to
within about a mile of I'eronnc. at
>ri\?ent held strongly by 'bo Germans.
They have occupied the summit known
is hill No. f>7, which commands the
?omme to the southeast of Biachcs,
iiiM have strengthened their positions
ictwcen Bluch*s and Itarleux.
Desperate fighting1 has occurred be
wecn the British and the Ofrmans .it
Proncs wood, against which th? Ger
nans launched six separate attacks.
?*ive were* repulsed, according to the
'iritish War Office, but the sixth per
nitted the Germans to penetrate the
?vod. where, latest reports said, the
ightlng continued. British troops
liH'ie some gains In the neighborhood
>f Ovlllers and I.a Bolbelle. and in a
jowerful attack on the German poal
lons in the Maine tss wood succeeded
n winning some ground where pievi
?utdy the re.vistance had been too
? irong to break.
Tiie forces of the German Crown
Jrince are still pounding heavily
igaiust the French positions at Frol
[le-Terre. Kleury and the Kumln wood.
In the Verilun sector, but the actions
ippear to have been confined to born
i;?rdments.
NO IIAI/r OK lll'SSlAN
AUVASCU 'I OW A It I) KOVtll,
There has apparently been no halt
,f the Russian advance toward Kovol.
n Volhynla. The Gorman dofenses
ilong the Stokhod River have been un
title to stay the progress of the Rus
lans. who have crossed the river at
.arlous points. The latest communlca
ion from Russian treneral headquar
ers shows that the two opposing
miller are In the midst of a terrific
struggle, for it mentions that "the
memy rallied and made desperate
;fforis to maintain his positions on the
eft bank of the river."
Along this line the battle is still
n progress.
In the Dvtna sector and cast <>f
Baranovichi the Germans have de
ivered strong counterattacks, and are
mdertaklng extensive offensive opera
,i?ns.
The fighting between the Italians
ind Austrians continues with unabated
'ury, the Austrian otficial statement
Inscribing the repulse of Alpine forces
>etween the. Rrenta and the Ktsch
?Uver. more than SOO Italian dend
jeing left before the Austrian trenches.
Hritish forces under General Smuts
lavc occupied T.inga. the second port
n importance 011 coast of <>erman
~.ast Africa and the terminus o.
5c: man railroad.
VlOl.r.NT FIGHTING
ON TWO HATTI.K FRONTS
LONDON, July 10.?Violent fighting
jersista on the two great battle fronts
Aith fluctuating fortunes, and ha^
-,,-ought to British minds the warnings
,f correspondents from the opening of
Sommc battle., that the steady,
uethodlcal pressure, rather than brll
iant advances must bo expected. The.
Russians have crossed the Stokhod
River at many points, and their con
-intied progress Is the outstanding fea
:ure of the allied offensive.
The British official statement to
ught says the Germans have entered
Trones wood, and records further
irogress east of Ovlllers and La
noiselle. In addition to h footing so
?iircd by the British in the Mantels
ivood. where the Germans had resisted
ill British efforts. In ? brilliant at
:ack the French have carried hill 07.
\ height which dominates the Sommc
southeast of Biachcs. according to the
Paris official statement.
The German official communication
idmits French possession of plachcs,
inly a short distance from Peronne,
which town is thus seriously exposed
md threatened.
UF-HMANfT CI,AIM ALLIF.U
OFKENSIVK AT STANDSTILL
German war correspondents art?
ilrcady claiming that the. allied offen
sive has been brought to a standstill.
The correspondent of the Berlin
fageblatt. with the Austrian army, tes
? j 1 jrs to the inexhaustible supply of
Russian troops, the great efficiency of
>jio Russian artillery and cavalry, and
he endless supplies of ammunition, as
? great contrast to the condition of
1,(. Russian forces last year.
The Germans are continuing their
strong attacks alonK the Russian front,
,,ut the. view is lick. he.re that this Is
jnly with tho object of gaining time
(i perfect the defenses of Kovel and
V'ladlmlr-Volynskl and to remove large
,tores of military material from these
joints to Brest-Liltovsk and Invan
xorod.
[?UF-NCH LAUNCH NEW ATTACK
IV TIIF, CHAMI'AGNK
I'ARJS, July 10.?A now attack was
launched in the Champagne by the.
French last night. Tho War Ofllcc to
(Contlnuod on Third rago.)
British General in West
(?ciicral A. I). Scott, one of tho
British generals who i? reported to
ho direct big the Rical allied drive.
PltMISTER EONSOLIIO
BRINGS JO* 10 CAMP
Will Pay Off .Militiamen To-Day
From Federal Fund of
?S lo.ooo.
S.ALOMO.NSKV IS SWOIl.V l\
More r,ni?"ifiit Plan of Policing Camp
i Is Inaugurated?K<|iii|imei)t for
Dines Arrives, mid Only Horses
\ow Are Lacking.
I'nynipnt <>f the troops in ''amp
j Stuart \*.1I l>ft:iii to-day, provided the
rolls liavi- ln-r-n completed. I.ioutonant
ColoiM l Charles' II. Consolvo, camp pay
master, will arrive In Rhhmond this
morning from Norfolk and undertake
the task of distributing the sum of
$?fl,e00. which was placed to his credit
: last Saturday hy the War Department,
j The work of paving off the remainder
of the disqualified pun rrlsmen, some ID?
in number, was completed yesterday
evening.
Added to the amounts already re
ceived. the {41,000 which came in Sat
: urday makes a total of $72,000 which
has hern received from the national
.government for the benefit of the Stata
, <"?uard, accordiup to a statement made
'yesterday afternoon at the office of the
Adjutant-General. Lieutenant-Colonel
j Consolvo. who i.? to begin payments
to-day, was relieved from duty at Camp
Stuart some time awn, except at such
times as his services as paymaster
might he required.
Those ineinters of the Richmond
( ? '.rays who were left behind on account
of physical disability or other dis
qualify at ion when tho First Regiment
went to the border, are requested by
Captain Anderson to call at the Admin
istration Building, Camp Stuart, and
receive their pay. These men were al
lowed to go to their homes in Rich
mond immediately after their rejection
by the mustering officer.
COI.ONKL. S.\ I.OMOXSK V
T.tliKS l'IU)i:n 11, OATH
In order to avoid any question of
his right to command those men who
have been mustered into the Federal
service. lieutenant-Colonel Bernard W.
Salomonsky, of the Fourth Virginia
Regiment, the new ramp commander,
himself became a member of the fed
eralized militia yesterday morning.
This ceremony having been performed,
Oolonel Salomonsky will have com
plete authority over the varied host of
federalized mllltln. State troops and
unrecognized volunteers who compose
the personnel of Camp Stuart. Rrig
j adier-Oeneral Vaughan. former com
mander of the camp, did not take the
' Federal oath
Major Allen Potts, camp quarter
master. yesterday evening said that he
had just received a carload of saddles,
bridles, spurs, blankets and other cav
alry equipment, which would prac
| tically satisfy the requirements of the
: First Squadron. Horses arc now tho
i one thing needful to the outfit of the
j erstwhile Blues. Although 700 horses
have been requisitioned from the War
Department by Coventor Stuart for
cavalry and artillery, it is by no means
certain that they will be sent. Xo
answer to the call was reported yes
terday.
Adjutant -General Sale last night
stated that there was no probability
that the troops now in camp would be
dismissed in the near future. They
were called out for service, he said, and
they will remain under arms until all
trouble alone the border has ceased.
MOIIK HKFKIKNT M WXKIt
OK I'OMC'IXt; CAMP
An order issued from the office of
Major Wright, camp adjutant, pro
i vides for a more efficient scheme of
; guards, to go into effect at (1 o'clock
this evening. 1,'nder the new system,
which is adopted on the. advice of Cap
tain A. M. Shlpp, of the United States
Army, a special company, troop or
battery will have charge of policing
the camp for a certain time. In contrast
to the old method of dividing the work
up among different organizations.
"We arc just now getting the rou
tine of camp life into efficient running
order," said Major Wright. "Bofore
this we have been so busy with the
work of starting tho soldiers to the
border that we could devote little at
tention to the details of the camp."
Taps will sound at 1.1 o'clock at night
after this instead of at 10:15. as in tho
pnst. literal enforcement of the order
requiring the withdrawal of all, visi
tors and civilians from camp at taps
will bo Inaugurated to-night. Other
(Continued *ou Fffth_Pagc.)
All Agencics Unite in Preventive
Measures Against Ipfan
tile Paralysis.
MAYOR ISSUES PROCLAMATION
General Clean-Up of Back Yards
Ordered?Mass-Meeting of
Doctors Called.
1**nil authority for concerted anil im
mediate action to safeguard the city
against an outbreak of infantile pa
ralysis, the fatal disease which has
become so widespread in New York ami
oilier cities as to call out the assist
ance of tlie l.'nlted States Public
Health Service, was obtained yester
day by Chief Health Officer K. C. Levy
from the Administrative Board and
Mayor Ainslie
; Dr. Levy said last night that no
, outbreaks of the disease had been re
ported in Richmond, but that every
j precaution would be taken to prevent
! the disease from making an appear
ance here. Should a vase be reported
to the health authorities, the public
will be immediately advised of Its
nature and location, thai any possible
spread may be avoided.
His plan of defense consists pri
marily of a Kcneral cleaning of the
city, and to this end he called for a
detail of ten policemen to aid his sani
tary Inspectors tn seeing that all pri
vate premises are immediately freed
from trash and waste material. Per
sons who fail to comply with the pre
scribed regulations will be dealt with
in Police Court. I.'pon I>r. Levy's sug
gestion, the board adopted a resolution
calling upon the City Council for an
appropriation of $2,000 for expendi
tures which will be necessary in pro
tecting tlie community from the malady.
AINSI.Ii: ISM KS STIIlKIMi
tl'I'HAI. TO Pl'HI.IC
In quick response to the recommenda
tion of Chief Health Ofliccr Levy made
to the Administrative Board, looking
I toward preparation to avoid an epi
demic of infantile paralysis in Rieh
| mond, Mayor Ainslic yesterday issued
the following proclamation:
Olllce of the Mayor.
Richmond, Va.. July 10, 101 'i.
To the People of Richmond,?1 am
advised by the Chief Health Officer that
'a comprehensive plan of action is
1 necessary to avert, if possible, the ap
pearance of infantile paralysis in
Richmond. In such a plan cleanliness
occupies first place, and for this rea
son 1 urge your intensive co-operation
in a clean-up campaign. Please give
immediate attention to your premises
and remove from your houses and
yards all kinds of waste to a con- j
venient place near your back gates ]
for collection by the Street-Cleaning
Department. Breeding places of flies,
rats, mosquitoes and all pests should
be completely destroyed. Standing
water wherever found should he
drained. Lime or other strong dis
; infectant should be freely used. In
fantile paralysis is one of the worst
scourges known. The disease, fatal In
most cases, generally leaves the sur
i vivor maimed for life. Children have
been dying in New York at the rate
of one every hour. I urge your im
mediate help in this effort to prevent
such a calamity in Richmond.
Respectfully,
(Signed) (IKOniR AINSL1E.
Mayor. '
MASS-.MICBTIXft OK
PHYSICIANS IS CALI.HD
A meeting of all the white phy?
i sicians in Richmond will he held in
| the auditorium of the Chamber of Com
merce to-night at S:30 o'clock under
i the auspices of the Richmond Academy
: of Medicine and Surgery, the call for
; the meeting having been issued yes
! terday by Kirst Vice-President Dr. St.
Julien Oppenhimer. Every white
physician in the city is urgently re
quested to attend the meeting, and
arrangements arc being made by which
it is hoped that a like meeting can be
arranged for the colored physicians of
the city. All physicians, whether or
not they are members of the academy,
are urged to attend the meeting to
night.
The Health Department will outline
its campaign of prevention against in
fantile paralysis, and members of the
academy will take up various phases
of the work and suggest special pre
cautions that should he undertaken to
preserve the public welfare.
LKVY OUTMNKS 1IIS
Pit I-'.PA IlKON'ISSS Pilot;n A M
Dr. Levy's program is as follows:
Three days for citizens to clean up
their premises.
Action by the police for failure, to
comply with this health regulation,
without 'extension of time for delin
quents.
Conference of specialists with the
Chief Health Officer to map out plans
for protecting the city.
Co-operation of all Hty departments
in maintaining sanitary conditions.
Appropriation of ?2.0ftft for emer
gency work.
Detail of ten police officers for a
house-to-house sanitary inspection,
under the direction of the Chief Health
Officer. J
The board adopted the necessary|
resolutions requesting the Mayor to j
name the detail of policemen asked by
Dr. Levy, as well as requesting thO|
emergency appropriation from the
Council.
Dr. Levy believes that the authori
ties should leave no stone unturned
which will givo further Immunity to
tho City from an epidemic which is
dally costing many lives in other
towns.
lie has iieen assured of the co
operation on tho part of all Richmond
TContTnuod on Third Pago.l
1IOTK1. KUKGKR ROOF TO-N1G11T.
Dinner-supper, music, danclnr, flilO to H ,
f?AdT. A
Attorney-General Pollard Holds
Them Equally Responsible
With Examiners.
; BEARS ON EASLEY CHARGES
i
Leigh Denounces as Untrue
Statement That Judge Barks
dale Helped Son-in-Law.
Holding that successive arts <>f the
j General Assembly alternately shifting
i the responsibility for reporting moneys
in the possession of receivers or spe
cial commissioners, from the clerks of
the courts to the examiners of records
and vice versa, are not repugnant to
each other, hut cumulative, Attorney
? leneral Pollard handed down an opin
ion yesterday in which he rules th.*it
| the duty lies with equal force against
j both classes of '(flicer^.
A ruling on this point was requested
j hy Executive Assistant Harnett, of the
j.State Tax Hoard, before which body
| charges had been filed against Exam
j iner James S. Kasley, of the Sixth Clr
I cuit, alleging that, in failing to report
about ?100,000 of this class of prop
erty in Halifax <\>unty. lie had been
j negligent in his duty as examiner. On
this ground chiefly the State Tax Hoard
| was asked to remove him from ofllcc.
| On Saturday the board removed Mr.
l Lasle.v without a statement, appointing
j In his place Tucker < \ Watkins, Jr.. of
South Boston.
(iAItXKTT I \ l-'Olt >| s rni llT
CI.KItlvS OK Til Kilt OL'TIKS
Pursuant to this ruling, Mr. Garnett
has directed the preparation of a letter
to be sent to every examiner of records
and court clerk in,the State, apprising
them of their duties under the law
with respect to the reporting of
moneys, bonds and other evidences of
debt in the hands of commissioners or
receivers, subject to the control of the
courts, in order that there may be no
question hereafter as to the respon
sibility for the performance of this
duty. The Attorney-General's opinion
is taken to mean that with respect to
tills class of property the duties of
examiners and clerks are identical, and
are intentionally made so for the pur
pose of maintaining a reciprocal check.
To the spotlight that has centered
on the whole Kaslev-Wat kins episode
since the swift developments of the
past few days, the Attorney-General's
opinion contributes an illuminating ray
of momentous interest. Nowhere lii
his statement Is there a reference to
the controversy. The opinion, never
theless. deals directly with the issue,
the determination of which appears to |
have been immediately responsible for I
the removal of a tax officer of eight
years' standing, and makes the clerk
of the court equally responsible with
the examiner for the dereliction
charged.
CI,KitK CIIADWM l\ KAII.KI)
AS 1)11) K YA >11 XK.lt KASI.KV
If Mr. Pollard s conclusions are cor
rect. it follows that Clerk Cran
C'raddock, of the Circuit Court of Mali
fax County, has failed in the discharge
of his official duties as signally as has
Kxaminer Kaslev in his. and if the ex
aminer's dereliction is punishable hy
removal from office so is tin- clerk's.
Mr. Craddock, incidentallv, took a
prominent part in forwarding the cam
paign for Mr. Kasley's removal.
In official circles the Tax Hoard's
summary removal of Kxaminer Kasley
continued to hold first place yesterday
as a live topic. The feeling was sen
jeral that under the circumstances Mr.
i Kaslev deserved at least a full and
j 'rank statement from the hoard giving
the reasons which prompted it to re
move him. Judge Prentis and tiover
nor Stuart were out of the city yester
day. and State Auditor Moore, the third
member of the board, clung to his
policy of silence.
The Attorney-General's opinion added
tenseness to the situation. It was
eagerly seized upon by friends of Mr.
[ Kaslev ns fully bearing out their
I charge .that the allegations against the
deposed examiner, if not in themselves
| inconsequential, were applicable with
j equal fores to every examiner and
every clerl: of court in the State, and j
that the si.igllug out one of the herd
for summary discipline carried with it
i a strong political odor.
' i.i:r<;11 savjs .it ix;k iia hkmia i.k
IIAII NO I'AIIT |\ ( IIAIttiKS
1* rom the \\ atkins side came a signed
statement yesterday from Attorney
Henjamin Watkius Leigh, who was
charged by Mr. Kasley with trumping
up against, him last-minute charges In
furtherance of n "contemptible plot" to
secure his removal. In these machi
nations, Mr. Kasley charged. Mr. Leigh
had the assistance of Judge W. It.
Ka rksdal?, father-in-law of Tucker C.
| Watkins, who was chosen by the Ta\
I Hoard as his successor.
Mr. Leigh denounces as false Mr.
Kasley's charge that Judge Harksdale
had anything to do with the prepara
tion of the charges against the ex
aminer. He characterizes also as un
true Mr. Kasley's statement that lie
proved these charges to be false by
records submitted to the Tax Hoard.
Mr. Leigh lays particular stress on the
j statement that Judge Barksdale had
absolutely nothing to <lo with the
charges preferred against Mr. Kasley
and knew nothing about them until
after they had been filed with the Tax
Hoard.
The only charge made by him against
Mr. Kasley, says Mr. Leigh, was that
he failed to carry out the law which
made It his duty to examine till causes
pending in tho courts of his circuit and
In tho hands of special commissioners,
thus allowing property to go untaxed.
Referring to Mr. Kasley's reply that
the law makes it the duty of clerks
to report (liese funds, and tho duty ot
the Judge to sec that they are taxed
and taxea paio, Mr. Leigh collators
with the declaration that this is not
true, and quotes flection 2633a, Tollard's
(.Continued on Fifth~Pago7)
PLANNING RETURN
TRIP OF SUBMARINE
Scouting expeditions arc sent out from the hase camp in Mexico for
various purposes. It may l>c to net the location of foraging hundits in the j
vicinity of the camp or to verify rumors of the movements of the .Mexican |
troops and for divers other purposes. It is not often that a scouting expc- !
dition has tiie convenience of having an auto truck with (Item.
President Defends I
Democratic Party as 1
Friend of Business
Strong for Peace in Mexi
co,, but Insists on Abso
lute Right of U. S. to
Defend Border.
DETROIT, MICH., July 10.?President j
"Wilson urged peaeo reached by mu
tual understanding rather than force,
and defended the Democratic party as
a friend of business in speeches to-day
to enthusiastic. Michigan audiences.
Thousands of persons shouted gieet
ings at him wherever be appeared.
The halt in which he spoke to the
World's Salesmanship Congress was
jammed, and an audience estimated at
50,000 greeted him at the Kord motor
plant. To-night in Toledo another
throng listened to his brief rear-plat
form address.
"1'eace" was the shouted response
of the salesmanship audience when the
President asked them what they de
sired when the present world strug
gles are at an end. And lie added that
"permanent peace" was his desire.
At a nonpartisan luncheon in the j
Detroit Athletic Club, the President
sprang to the defense of the Demo-j
I crats.
"We have common interests, and it
is our business to understand and serve
those common interests," he said. "The
great difficulty that has confronted us,
gentlemen, has often been that we have
deliberately looked at these, common
interests from self-chosen angles,
which made them look as if some of
us were separated from others, and as
if some of us wanted to depress busi
ness, for example, and others of us
wanted to exalt business.
i\'ri:i,i,i(;?:\t K. imim cjxki);
IXTUItEST NOT DOL'HTKD
"I dare say that you have noticed
that tho same necessity to make a liv
ing is imposed upon Democrats as Kt>
publicana, and I dare say you are ready
to believe that Democrats are just as
willing to make a good liviiiK as Ite-j
publicans. Therefore, it seems to me!
| logically to follow, though 1 have bet-n j
| quoted as having no regard for logic,
I that Democrats are naturally as much
I interested in the business prosperity of
tho United States as anybody else. So
that if you believe that they arc not
j as fitted to guide it as other persons, i
you cannot be doubting their interest;]
you are only impugnim; their intelli-1
I getice. And some Democrats had no-j
|ticed hat the inclination to suppose J
1 that only some persons undet^tood the'
business of America had a tendency to i
run into the assumption that the mini-j
ber of persons who understood that
business was Very small, and that there
were only certain groups and associa
tions of gentlemen who were entitled
to be trustees of that business for the
rest of us. I have never subscribed in |
any walk of life to ihe trustee theory.!
I have always been inclined to believe j
that the business of the world was j
best understood by those men wlioj
were in the struggle for maintenance,
not only, but for success.
"The man who knows the strength
'of the tide is the man who is swim
ming against it, not the man who is!
floating with It. The man who is im
mersed In tho beginnings of business,
who is trying to get his foothold, who
is trying to got other men to believe
in him and lend him money and trust j
him to make profitable use of that 1
money, is the man who knows what ]
tho business conditions in the United j
Stales are, and I would rntlier take
his counsel as to what ought to bo
I done for business than tho counsel of
any established captain of Industry,
becauso tho captain o C industry is
look ins? backward and the orhor man
in looking forward.
COMHTIOXS OI'" IH'MXKSS
SHOW CONSTA XT CH.WtiKS
"Tho conditions of business change
wjili ovory generation; change with
(?very decade; arc now changing at
almost breathless pave, and tins men
who have made good are not feeling
the tides as the other men are fool
ing thenu The men who have got Into
the. position of captaincy, unless they
are of unusual fiber, unless they are
of unusually catholic sympathy, unless
they have continued to touch shoulders
with the ranks, unless they have con
tinued to keep close communion with
the men they are employing and the
young men they are bringing up as
their assistants, do not belong to the
struggle in which we should see that
every unreasonable obstacle is re
moved and every reasonable h? lp af
forded that public policy can afford.
So I invite your thoughts in what t
sincerely believe to be an entirely non
partisan spirit to the "nomocracy of
Business.'
"An act was recently passed in Con
gress that some of the most intelligent
business men of this country earnestly
opposed. men whose character I
trusted, men whose integrity I abso
lutely ljelieved in. 1 refer to the Fed
eral reserve, act. by which we intended,
and succeeded in. taking credit out of
the control of a small number of men
and making it available to everybody
who had real commercial assets, and
the very men who opposed that act,
and opposed it conscientiously, now
admit that it saved .the country from
a ruinous panic when the stress of war
came on. and that it is the salvation
of every average business man who is
in the midst of the titles that I have
been trying to describe.
'"What does that mean, gentlemen'.'
It means that you can get a settled
point of view and can conscientiously
oppose progress if you do not need
progress yourself. That is what it
means. 1 am not impugning the in
telligence even of t h ? - men who op
posed these tilings, because the same
thing happens to every man if he is not
of extraordinary make-up, that he can
not see the necessity for a thing that
lie does not himself need. When you
have abundant credit and control of
credit, you. of course, <!<? not need that
tin' area of credit should be broadened.
No, 1 say, ili.il the suspicion is begin
ning to dawn in many quarters that
?lie average man knows the business
necessities of the country just as well
as the extraordinary man does. I be
hove in the ordinary man. It' I did
siot believe in the ordinary man, I
would move out of a democracy and,
,f I could find a decent monarchy, I
would live in it The very conception
of America is based upon I In- validity
of the judgments of the, average man.
and I call you to witness that there
have not been many catastrophes in
American history. I call yon to wit
ness that the average judgments of the
voters of the United States have been
so.inn judgments. I call you to wit
ness that this great impulse of the
comnvir. opinion has been a lifting im
pulse, and not a depressing impulse,
rr.w ca.wot nirn:mn\i:
I.NTKIIHSTS OK .MA.VV
* "W'liat is the object of Associations
like that which is gathered here to
day, this Salesmanship Congress".' The
moral of it is that it few men cannot
determine the Interests of a large body
of men. and the only way to determine
and advance them is to have a repre
sentative assembly chosen by them
iConlfnuod on Second Pajjc.)
K
METAL AND RUBBER,
NEEDED BY KAISER,
WILL FORM CARGO
The Deutschland Docks at
Baltimore Preparatory
to Unloading.
PROMPTLY ESTABLISHES
PEACEFUL CHARACTER
German Captain Submits Craft to
Thorough Inspection by
U. S. Officials.
NO SIGN* OF AlOIAMKNT
llnrbcd-Wirc Stockade and Numer
ous (iuarris lilock Way of
Sightseers.
BALTIMOBK, July 10.?The German
submarine merchantman Deutschland
to-night was roadv to discharge her
11.000,000 cargo and take aboard for
the return trip metal and rubber need
ed by the Kmperor's armies and navy.
The return merchandise is waiting on
the dock, and the time for leaving port
will depend largely upon plans for
eluding vigilant enemy cruisers, which
it is expected will bo waiting outside
the Virginia capes.
To-night the daring German seamen
who brought th<> submarine merchant
man l>eutschlaad across the Atlantic
slept quietly aboard their vessel, which
, lay moored ti> a carefully screened piei
guarded by a stroncr squad of Balti
| more police. Captain Taul Koenig, the
skipper, had delivered his papers to the
North German Lloyd otllc.e. entered Ids
vessel at the custom-house as a com
merce carrier, and had presented to a
German embassy ofliclal a pack of cor
respondence for Ambassador Bcrn
st<?r(T.
j One of <*\-iptn In Koenig's first acts
! after If moved from quarantine early
I to-day was to announce that tho
I >eu t sch la ml was but one of a fleet ot
! mammoth submersiblcs built or build
j ing for a regular transatlantic mail and
1 merchandise service, lie said the next
to come would bo the Bremen, and that
idle might be looked for within eight
weeks.
( UAIT St II >111 II. n
TO TllOllOttdl IXSI'KCTION
Anxious to establish promptlj his
peaceful character, and to forestall in
vestigation sought bv diplomatic rep
resentatives of tho allied powers, tho
I German cap':ain submitted his craft to
j a thorough Inspection by tho surveyoi
of the port and an agent of the Depart
ment of Justice. These ollicers, as well
as the customs inspectors, and quaran
tine surgeons, agreed that there was
no sign of armament of any descrip
tion on board, and that there was no
doubt in their minds about the boat
being entitled to the status of an ordi
nary merchantman. Guy V. Steele, tho
surveyor, made, a formal report to this
effect to Port Collector Hyatt, who
transmitted it to the Treasury Depart
ment at Washington.
Neither Captain Koenig nor agents
of the North German Lloyd Line, to
whom the boat is consigned, seemed
apprehensive of diplomatic difficulties.
It was stated on the authority of tho
captain that the only arms on hoard
were four automatic pistols belonging
1 to the officers, and a sportsman's riflo
I for tiring rockets.
This was a busy day for the com
! mander, beginning at dawn when quar
antine officers went aboard, received
| the bill of health issued by the Amor
( ican consul at Bremen and passed tho
Deutschland into port. Once safely
alongside of his dock, Captain Koenig
' called his crew ashore and posed with
! them for motion-picture and newspaper
I photographers, lie laughed and chatted
j with the* camera men and correspon
dents, but refrained from discussing
| his achievement until after he had re
? ported to the agents of his owners.
IN STATION 10VI' TISl.l.S
OK COMING OK OTIIIOIt IIO NTS
Later, at the office of tho North Ger
; man Lloyd, he issued a typewritten
| statement tolling of the coming of
other boats like the Deutschland and
'asserting his voyage had broken tho
i Itritish control of the seas. At tho
same time he submitted to an inter
: view in which he described bis H.S0O.
j mile cruise, lie denied reports that ha
had been chased off his course by
enemy warships, declaring that so far
] as he knew there was not an allied
; war era ft in the Atlantic. The cap
tain asserted further that his voyage
had established the fact that a sub
j marine of the typ* of the Deutschland
could travel anywhere that the ordl
I nary vessel could so, 13,000 miles if
necessary. He had no fears, he stated,
of his ability to elude enemies that
might be waiting for him off th<- Vln
ginia capes when he starts his return
trip.
j "| will he able to submerge within
I the three-mile lim'.ts, and th?-y cannot
j catch mo after that." ho said.
During nearly the entire voyage,
' said Captain Koenig. the Deutschlan-l
traveled on the surface. Onoo she sub
I merged for ten hours, ami lay d'iring
lb it time on the bottom of the K.nwllsh
Channel to escape British de^ti overs,
i Captain Koenig piloted his vessel out
[of Bremen on June 14. Bo went
dircctly to Helgoland, remaining tli?rq
? '. ? ? <? . .....
