THE ARIZONA RETOK
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
CAN
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
10 PAGES
."HOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, JULY 11, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 51
OPERATORS !
DHEwaa
J0
J0
jX
MIS II
ORES
German Submarine Merchantman Moored at Guarded Pier
READ! 10 DISCHARGE 111
. DOLLAR GABGD ID RETURN
AFTER EIEITEUL ACHIEVEMENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE, Mil., July 10. The
daring rnwn seamen who brought
the submarine merchantman Deutsch
land across the Atlantic were sleep
ing quietly tonight aboard thrir ves
wl, which lay moored to a carefully
screened pier guarded by a strong
squad of Baltimore police. Captain
Paul Koen'g, the skipper, had deliv
ered his papers to the North Herman
I.Un'u officers, entered his vessel at
the customs house as a commerce
rnrrW-r, and presented to the German
embassy the packet of correspond
ence for Count von P.ernstorff
Now the submarine is ready to dis
charge her million dollar cargo of
ilyestuff and take ahoard for the
return trip to Germany metal and
rubber ueeded by the emperor's
armies and navy.
The return merchandise is waiting
on the dock and the lime for leaving
port will depend largely upon plana
for eluding vigilar.t enemy cruisers
expected to he waiting outside the
entrance of Chesapeake hay for the
re-appearance of the vessel.
' no of Captain Konig's first act
after he moved his ship up the har
bor from quarantine early today wan
to announce that the Deutschland was
tint one of a fleet of mammo'h sub
mersihles built or building for a reg
ular trans-Atlantic freight and mail
service. He raid the next to como
would be the "Bremen," and that she
might te looked for at some port 1
alone the coast within eiirht weeks. J
Anxious to establish promptly hifj
peace ful character and to forestall '
investigation sought bv , diplomatic i
representatives of the allied power.,!
the Germen capta'n submitted his:
COLORADO SPRINGS
SENDS CONGRATULATIONS
ADVANCE BY ENTENTE ALLIES UNCHECKED
FRENCH NEAR PERONNE
WHILE BRITISH GAIN
IN MAMETZ WOOD
COLORADO SPRINGS, July 10.
One hundred German-Americans
of Colorado Springs sent congrat-
ulatory telegrams today to Cap-
tain Koenig of, the Herman subma-
rine Deutschland which reached
Baltimore Sunday.
li
OFFICER IS SEA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YojiK. July !. First officer
Franz v. KraMhl of the German sub
marine merchantman ltutschland, ar
rived in New York late tonight from
Baltimore on his way to the German
summer embassy at Rye, N. Y. lie
carried three sacks of special mail and
was accompanied by Haniel Von Haim
hausen, counsellor of the embassy.
j Coming from Baltimore, Krapohl com
plained of the motion of the train,
saying:
"If this keeps up, I will get sea
sick.'' He asserted that the Deutschland
rurts so smoothly that one could play
a game of billiards within her at a
rrart to a rncrougn inspection nv meiuepth of j- t() 2I) meter!i
surveyor of the port and an agent of. Reminded that all commerce vessels
the department of justice. These of , entering the waters of the United
tirrr: :i w'11 n tho itstnn In-! :
- - j ctrties uiini i i rn t i luitMiL lit c nu m& t
Kpectors and quarantine surgeons. . devices, the first officer declared that
ngreed that there was no sign .if j ,ne Deutschland was eouim.ed with life
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
The French in their operations south of the Somme have advanced to
within about a mile of Peronne at present held strongly by the Germans.
They have occupied the summit known as Hill No, 97 which commands the
Somme to the south east of- Biaches, and have strengthened their positions
between Biaches and Berleux,
Desperate fighting has occurred between the British and the Germans
?t Trones wood against which the Germans launched six separate attacks.
Five of these were repulsed, according to the British war office, but the
sixth was successful in that it permitted the Germans to penetrate the
wood where latent reports said the fighting continued.
The British troops, however, made some gains in the neighborhood of
Ovillers and La Boiselle, and in a particularly powerful attack on the Ger
man positions in the Mameti wood succeeded in winning some ground
where p'-evious'y the resistance had been too strong to break.
The forces of the German crown prince are still pounding heavily
against the French positions at Froide. Terre, Fleury, and the Fumin wood,
in the Verdun sector but so far as the official statements show, the actions
have been confined to bombardments.
There apparently has been no halt of the Russian advance toward Ko
vel in Volhynia. The German defenses along the Stokhod river have been
unable to stay the progress of the Russians who though strongly opposed,
have crossed the river at various points. The latest communication from
Russian general headquarters shows that the two opposing armies are in
the midst of a terrific struggle. Alonp this line the battle still is in prog
ress. In the Dvina sector and east of Maranovichi the Germans delivered
rtiong counter attacks and are undertaking extensive offensive operations.
The fighting between the Italians and Austrians continues with un
abated fury, the Austrian official statement describing the repulse of Al
pine forces between the Brentai and the Etsch rivers more than 800 Italian
r!ead being left betore the Austrian trenches.
British forces under General Smutz have occupied Tanga, the second
port in importance on the coast of German East Africa and the terminus
of a German railroad.
CALLES CERTAIN I BREAK COMING;
ORDERS MINERS BACK TO FIELDS
Republican a. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz., July 10. In a
statement issued - to the Associated
Press tonight, General P. Elias Calles,
military commander of Sonora, said:
"Advices I received today from Mex
ico were so satisfactory and made me
feel so sure that there tan be no break
between Mexico and the United States,
that I have ordered the mobilization of
my troops now in the border districts,
discharged from the national service
and ordered the reopening of all public
offices along the border.
"I have also extended an invitation
to foreigners to return to Sonora and
will protect them and their property.
"All of the volunteers who took up
arms for their country have been or-
dered to return to their homes,
plant their fields and aid the govern
ment in bringing about a return of
normal conditions.
"The railroads of Sonora will reopen
for public traffic immediately.
"I have ordered the bulk of my
troops to proceed to the Yaqui river
valley to take up the Indian cam
paign once more in order that life
and property of Mexicans and foreign
ers may be safe. Each of my subor
dinate commanders has been instructed
to punish anyone, soldier or civilian,
who does not extend every courtesy to
foreigners."
General Calles sent the same mes
sage to General T. F. Davis, comman
der of the Arizona district, tonight.
ASSURANCE IS !
GIVEN OF FOIL .
PROTECTION
On Both Fronts
Heavy Fighting
Still Persists
French Carry
Hill Dominating
The River Somme
armament of any
board and that ther
in their minds about
entitled to the status
merchantman, Guv
was no doubt
the boat being
of an ordinary !
V. Steele, the
surveyor. ma'e a formal report !.o
this effect to Port Collector Ryan. !
who transmitted it to the treasury
department at Washington.
Neither Captain Koenig nor agents
from the North German Llovd line, to
whom the boat is consigned evinced
the slightest' uneasiness over the
suggestion that there might be dip
lomatic difficulties. These questions
had been given due consideration in
ndvance ind nothing was left un
done to make the rtalus of the ship
unquestionable. It wa.-i stated on the
authority of the captain that the only
armn on board were four automatic
pistols belonging to the officers and
a sportsman's rifle for firing rockets
This v.'ss a busy dav for the com
mander, beginning at dawn, when
quarantine officers came a'.ioard. re
ceived the bill of h'-alth Issued by
the American consul at Bremen, and
jrassed the Deutschland into po:
inscription on , ooats and ife Forward of the
conning tower of the great submarine,!
he said, was a life boat with life belts,
and accommodations and provisions for
2.1 men. A smaller boat aft of the
conning tower had accommodations for
six men. He stated that the boats
could be launched in two minutes.
Krapohl said that early in June the
Deutschland was visited by Prince
Henry of Prussia,, brother of the Ger
man emperor, and his wife. Prince
Henry presented Captain Koenig with
an autograph of himself upon which
was written a poem of his own com
position. The English translation follows:
"To the first German commerce submarine:
"To battle and fight is not your call.
"Your mission is one of ieaccful
trade.
'Go on then, God speed you and bless
the trip.
"Be courageous and brave as true
Germans are.
"All Germany wishes you from the
depths of its heart,
"Good luck and a safe return home."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. July 10. On both eastern
and western front, heavy fighting per
sists. This is specially the case on the (
western front where the struggle is
not without fluctuations of fortune and
brings to mind the warnings of the
correspondents from the opening of the
Somme battle 'that steady, methodical
pressure rather than brilliant advances
must be expected.
The British official statement to
night says that the Germans have en
tered Trones wood and records further
progress east of Ovillers and Lit Bois
selle, in addition to a footing secured
by the British in the Ma met z wood,
where heretofore the Germans had re
sisted all the British efforts.
The German official communication
admits French possession of Biaches
only a short distance from Peronne,
which town Is thus seriously exposed
and threatened.
On the eastern front the Russians
have crossed the Stokhod river ut
many points.
German war correspondents are al-
at
No. the
a'-
is-to-
the
BRPET HEARS
C1ECRIRCES
.IN SEQUENCE
REVENUE BILL
P
(Continued on Page Three)
(Continued on Page Three)
INTERNATIONAL LAI 0UESTI01
ILL SOON BE CLEARED AIT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 10 Federal
officials believe tonight the question of
International law raised by the arrival
of the German super-submarine
Deutschland might be soon cleared
away.
A preliminary report during the day
from Collector Ryan at Baltimore indi
cated that the vessel was purely a
merchant ship devoid of any peculiar
status because of the unprecedented
manner of her trip across the Atlantic.
Should this indication be .borne out by
the more detailed explanation that will
be made, officials see. no reasons why
diplomatic complications should de
velop. There was no prospect tonight
that the allied governments were pre
paring to protest In the event that the
Deutschland is held to be a merchant
man. The navy department today detailed
Captain C. F. Hughes to aid the Palti-
more collector In examining the sub
marine. An officer familiar with sub
Deutschland or by embassy officials to
a closer inspection of the submarine on
the ground that she is of a secret type
of construction were not generally
credited by officials who expect no
serious opposition In their investiga
tion. Such objection will probably re
sult In the recall of Captain Hughes
and if would then be incumbent on the
German government to offer convinc
ing evidence of the submarine's peace
ful character.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS, Jii'y 1. In a brilliant
tacit the French have tarried Hill
97, a height which dominated
Somme, ::outheast of Biaches,
cording to the official statement
sued by the French war office
night.
A new attack was launched in
j Champaene by French last nighL The
j war office today announced the cap
ture of trenches over a front of fiO'i
nuteis.
On the Homme front the French
took a line of German positions in thy
neighborhoi d of Barlcux. In this sec
tion !r0 Germans were raptured yes
terday and last night.
Tht Germans made attacks at five
points simultaneously in the Yosges
but all their assaults were checked
completely by the fire of the French
machine guns
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WAUKKGAN 111., July 10. William
H. Orpet, who for a month had heard
charges and insinuations made against
him piece-meal by witnesses in his
trial for the alleged murder of Marion
Lambert, had them served up in co
herent sequence today.
He had grown used to it, however,
and remained calmly in his chair
throughout the long hot day in Judge
Donnelly's court room.
His mother was in her usual seat by
his side and on the other sat a friend
of unusual interest M rs. Kdwin Tay
lor, at whose home he lodged while at
tending the University of Wisconsin at
Madison.
Mrs. Taylor was one of the Wiscon
sin witnesses wanted by the state and
none of whom responded. Both sides
having rested their evidence last Sat
urday, however, Mrs. Taylor took the
train for Chicago and entered court
secure in the fact that it was too late
to call her to the stand.
The defendant when a witness, ad
mitted that as a part of his alibi, at
tempting to conceal the fact of his
trip to Lake Forest, he rumpled his bed
so that Mrs. Taylor would think that
he slept in it. She took pains to show
Russians
PETRI iC.RAD,
don, July 10.)
advanciric in V
Cross Stokhod
July 10. (Via I,on--The
Russian forces
olhvnia toward Kovel
Stokhod a'
SHIP FOOD TO SONORA
reuilv elalmimr thnt tho ulliel nffenHive I are Crossing til TlVCr
has been brought to a standstill. The (various points, closely pressing the
correspondent of the Berlin Tageblatt j Teutonic forces opposing them, says
with the Austrian army testified to the I today's war office statement.
Inexhaustible supply of Russian troops, j
the great efficiency of the Russian ar
tillery and cavalry and the endless
supplies of ammunition, as in great
contrast to the condition of the Rus
sian forces last year.
The Germans are continuing their
strong attacks along the Russian front
but the view Is held here that this is
only with the object of gaining time' to
perfect the defenses of Kovel and
Vladirpir-Volynski, and to remove large
stores of military material from these
points to Hrest-Lltovsk and Ivangoron.
(Continued on Page Three)
BT GOOD VOTE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 10. The ad
ministration omnitius revenue bill, cre
ating a tarirr commission, imposing a
protective tariff on dyestuffs, repealing
present stamp taxes and providing for
new taxes on incomes, inheritances and
munitions profits, passed the house late
today by a vote of 240 to 140.
During the closing hours of debate
several amendments providing for
elimination for the banker's tax and
modifying the tariff commission sec
tion were adopted over the opposition
of Democratic leaders. On the final
roll call the Democrats, voted solidly
for the bill and were joined by thirty
four Republicans, five Progressive-Republicans,
one Independent and one So
cialist. The amendments adopted cut the
salaries of members of the tariff com
mission from 5110,000 to $7,500 annually;
struck out the provision under which
no member or former member of con
gress could serve on the commission,
and provided a single appropriation of
$300,000 to pay expenses of the com
mission the first year instead of the
bill's stipulation of a continuing annual
appropriation of that amount. The en
tire section levying a tax of $1 for
(Continued on Page Three)
DELAY IRISH PARLIAMENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July 11. According to the
London morning papers it probably will
be well into the year 1917 before the
new Irish parliament is set up. fcittle
can be done other than the introduc
tion of the bill before parliament rises
early in August for a recess of from I
six to eight weeks, so that the pas
sage of the bill is not likely before
late in October.
Republican A'. P. Leased Wire
NOGALES, Ariz., July 10 Shipment
of food from the United States into
Sonora was resumed today after an in
terruption of three weeks, when eight
carloads of garbanzos, a species of
chick pea, crossed the international
line. Reports from the Interior of the
state indicate that numbers of the
peons are on the verge of famine and
that the arrival of the food is awaited
eagerly. Negotiations were begun to
day in Nogales, Sonora, between the of
ficials of the Southern Pacific railway
of Mexico and the authorities of the
Mexican de facto government to turn
the road back to the company for oper
ation. Since the beginning of the re
cent crisis the line has been in the
hands of the Mexican militia.
NO DEFINITE STEPS T
NEGOTIATIONS
IN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 10. Acting
Secretary Polk of the state department
and Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassador-designate,
conferred briefly
today but in the absence of formal
instructions to the ambassador from
General Carranza, no definite steps
were taken toward beginning the pro
posed negotiations for settlement of
differences between the two govern-
The conference was an informal talk
1 and followed the ambassador's visit to
I the department with further advices
talks between Mr. Polk and Mr. Arre
dondo, the procedure favored here as
making for quick action.
Published reports that national
guardsmen mobilized for border duty
were not being properly fed were de
nied in a war department statement
issued during the day.
"Although no officiat complaint to
this effect has been received," it is
said the war department has investi
gated these instances and can report
them absolutely unfounded. Every
where the troops are being excellently
cared for, and the men themselves have
from his government regarding the j complaints to make, buch rumors
operations of Villa bands near Corrali- unjustifiably alarm the parents and
Germans Say Offensive
Virtually At Standstill
PUTS BLAME ON VILLA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN, (Via London), July 10.
German . correspondents on the west
front telegraphing Sunday agree In re
porting thai the great offensive is vir-
,,..1t.. ,i ut.inrli.HII Tl,,.., nt
Z . u I , ,u acl,m',anysert that it achieved no results o!
meleW ! B ?, 1 hPy- Wl"1act Practical importance in the week it
S '" an advisory capac.ty and thejlHlited Hnd tnat what Kain!) were ma(Je
uimuu n me guvt-i nun-Hi win ne oe-i ,i r1.
i j i .mi. . wiie
it-i milieu uy me nnai report to be
tnarla V.if Vi
Rnmr. thot . , . . Th correspondent of the local An-
Kumors that objection micht be! ,.rL . .
raised bv c,ni,in w.,Lti , zeiger says: "The offensive has been
raised by Captain Koenig of the at a 8tandstni for the laat tnree days
SANTA FE, N. M., July 10. The will .
of Jose Rangel, one of the four Villis
tas hung recently at Deming, for com
plicity in the Columbus raid, was made
public here yesterday. The will is writ-'!
ten in Spanish and after affirming
Rangel's belief in the Catholic religion, '
declares he participated in the raid at ;
the behest of his commander. Villa. '
expressed patriotic love for Mexico and i
declares that he had neither friends "
tos, Mexico. .The de facto authorities,
Mr. Arredondo said, had secured more
definite information to the effect that
the bandits were headed toward Bo-
I quillas or some point near there on the
Texas border. The ambassador re
newed the warning previously given
American military authorities and
gave assurances that Carranza troops
would make every effort to check the
attempted raid.
The substance of the message was
and Is shattering itself Into a bitter
group of conflicts on the wall of. our nor relatives to console him in his sor-, sanjng vessel near Guaymas by officers
forwarded to General Funston. It con
tained no estimate of the bandit forces
and made no mention of Villa himself.
The ambassador also assured Mr.
Polk that the searching of a Mexican
quite out
I losses suffered. .
of proportion to
second lines. ' Our defending forces
have dammed up the advancing enemy
In a basin and they are unable to unite
forces sufficient to enlarge the bor
ders of the basin to any extent worth
noting."
The correspondent of the Vossiehe-
the'zeitung reports that the first week of
the .offensive "has . not ..brought the
enemy any nearer his goal." He inti
mates the possibility of an extension of
the entente-rallies' efforts-
row. It concludes with a statement
that he is penniless and bears no mal
ice toward any one.
UTAH CAVALRY ARRIVES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NOGALES, Ariz., July 10. Four
troops of the First Utah cavalry de
trained here tonight In a downpour of.
rain and Immediately went Into camp
near the Connecticut troops on the out
skirts of the'cily.
from an American gunboat had been
satisfactorily explained.
Mr. Arredondo momentarily is ex
pecting the word from his government
which will make it possible to begin
the diplomatic negotiations. The state
department had no intimation as to the
form which would be followed, though
the delay was taken to mean that a
formal Joint conference might be pro
posed rather than a series of informal
relatives of the militiamen and act as
a deterrent upon recruiting.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz., July 10.i-TI:9
managers of several of the larga
mining properties in Sonora held con
ferences with General P. Elias Cal
les, military commander of Sonora,
today, by his request and personally
received the invitation, of the Mexican
government to return to work with
their foreign employes.
General Calles guaranteed them
safety of person and property. ' J.
S. Williams, Jr., general manager of
the Moctezuma Copper company at
Nacozuri, George KinRdon, general
superintendent of the Cananea Con
solidated Copper company at Cana
nea and T. R. Budrow, general man
ager of the El Tigre mine at EI
Tigre, indicated that they were ready
to return to work as soon as the
United States embargo against ex
plosives h;ul been raised. Until this
has been done, none of the large
companies can operate, the managers
agreed.
A few of the heads of departments
will go to Nacozari Tuesday to in
spect company property, to report to
Mr. Williams on the feasibility of
immediate work on a large scale.
Messrs Kingdon and Budrow also
indicated that they would take the
same step. All three of the proyert,ies
have been operated by Mexican em
ployes since the departure of the
Americans.
There is a reserve' supply of min
ing powder at ench of the three
camps, it was learned today. This
was commandeered by the troops of
General Calles and at one time, when
the war scare was at its height, many
gas pipe bombs were prepared, but
not loaded.
If assured that the embargo would
be lifted in the near future, all three
companies would be in full operation
by the end of the week, it was stated
today in reliable sources. A number '
of smaller properties will reopen at
once, owners and employes prepar
ing to leave Tuesday.
Torrential rainstorms Sunday and
today caused great discomfort among
the newly arrived national guardsmen
from New Jersey and Montana.
Many of the men had not trenched
their tents and these wre
draggled as a result. One result was
to place many men on the sick list
with colds.
Troops B and D, First squadron.
New Jersey brigade, arrived here ear
ly today and made camp in camp
Frederick Funston.
Major John W. Loveland, Fifth
New Jersey Infantry, was thrown
from his horse today, having his
shoulder dislocated.
Jointly Guard Border
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., July 10.
Without formal agreement it appeared
probable today that the plan of a
joint guarding of the border country
proposed by General Funston and
General Scott during their confer
ences at Kl Paso might be worked
out by officers commanding troops on
opposite sides of the international
line. ,
General Bell at El Paso already has
discussed with General Gonzales a
plan of co-operative work and Cap
tain A. V. Anderson, commanding the
American troops at Presidio, talked
with Colonel Rojas, commandant of
the Mexican garrison at OJinag. op
posite Presidio of the best means of
preventing raids.
No instructions from department
headquarters have been sent to the
border commanders to enter into ne
gotiations with Mexican officers, hut
it was indicated that similar efforts
would be made by all American of- ,
ficers whose commands face Mexican
troops. .
Colonel Gaston, commanding the'
American troops in the Big Hend dis
trict, watched for signs that Villa's
men or other bandits were moving
against the border but his reports
late today indicated continued quiet.
Additional troops will reach him to
morrow. It is believed that he will
(Continued on Page Two)
Lowlands In Six States
Covered By High Waters
Republican A.
ATLANTA. Ga
in six southern
covered by high
P. Leased Wire
July 10 Low lands
states were today
wa ters of streams
which had overflowed under almost
continual rainfall since last Wednes
day. t Eleven deaths reported today
made the toll 78 dead or missing, 55
of whom were members of the crews
of ten schooners reported unaccount
ed for at Biloxi, Miss., as a result of
the tropical storm last week. Other
dead are off the coast near Mobile
and at -interior points in Mississippi,
Alabama, and Georgia.
Property damage will amount to
millions of dollars and thousands of
persons are homeless. At many plac
es boats are being used to rescue
thoso marooned in their homes or in
treetops.
In Alabama conditions have aa
sumed the most serious aspect. A
rainfall that has continued for more
than one hundred hours at some
places has crippled wire and rail
communications and demoralized
business. Railroad yards and manu
facturing plants in Montgomery are
threatened by the rising waters ot
the Alabama river. Selma citizens
today organized relief parties .Xor
work among the flood victims along
the Cahaba, and Alabama river val- k
leys where 2,000 families have been
driven from their homes. Prattville,
Ala., a town of 3,000 inhabitanLs, Is
almost entirely covered,
1
