THE BARRB DAILY TIME
S
JJAKI.K, VERMONT. TDKSDAY, JULY 11. 1010.
VOL. XX NO. 99.
PK1CK. OXK CEXT.
BRITISH
SEIZED
TOWN
Contalmaison, AVhich Lies
East of La Boissellc, Was
Captured Last Night, and
Several Lines of German
Trenches in the Mamctz
Wood Were Taken, While
the Fighting: Keeps Up in
Troncs Wood
girded, comparatively recently, as insur
mountable." The Daily Express says: "The achieve
mcnt cannot have the smallest military
significance but it is an interesting and
aimming event. It is possible that a
dozen submarine merchantmen may reach
America but. disaster would occur to
moot of them before they could return.'
The Morning Post recall the f.iet that
10 British submarines, constructed ill
Canada, crossed the Atlantic last sum-
mer. The paper gives an official ad'
miralty report an ita autliority for thi.
It add: "It in not the caae of this be
ing the first trader submarine to cross
the Atlantic inasmuch as it i known
that she Is merely an ordinary l'-boat
with her fighting equipment removed.
"It doea not open a new era for the
submarine a trader. The siu-tll amount
of cargo rarried compared with the coat
of the vovago prevent it from being a
commereial proposition. England com
mand the sea route and while the trade
ships of every nation pas freely in wife
ty, Germany has to cnwl under the sea.
It in the bent demonstration possible of
the efficacv of our blockade."
ONLY NINE MEN
WERE RESCUED
Of Crews of Four or Five
British Patrol Boats
Sunk
AUSTRIAN CRUISER
DESTROYED THEM
FRENCH HAD QUIET
NIGHT ON THE SOMME
In the Verdun Sector, How
ever, the French Were
Called Upon to Resist At
tack Launched Between
Fleury and Chenois, Which
They Did After Germans
Had Entered Advanced
Trenches
GERARD TO HAVE REST.
United States Ambassador at Berlin Go
ing to Denmark.
Berlin, via London, .Tulv 11. I'nited
States Ambassador James W. Gerard i
Austrian Admiralty An
nounced the Loss of Them
in Straits of Oranto
Berlin, by wireless, July 11. The Aus
trian admiralty announced today that
the Austrian cruiser Xovare has sunk
four or five British armored patrol boats,
planning to leave soon on a much needed I Only nine men from the British vesseli
vacation, the first real rest the ambassa
dor will have had since the beginning of
the war.
Ambassador Gerard is unwilling to
leave his post long enough to visit th?
I'nited States and will take a rest cure
in Denmark and Scandinavia. Mrs. Gcr-
ard will 'probably accompany him.
With the exception of an abortive at
tempt at a vacation last winter, which
ended at the start with a skiing accident,
the ambassador has been on duty every
minute since the war cloud appeared.
London. July 11 The British captured
Contalmaison last night, the war office
announced to-day. Several lines of
trenches in the Mametz wood were taken
by the British and heavy fighting con
tinues in the Trones wood.
GERMAN GAIN
NEAR FLEURY
TEMPORARY
Attack Launched at Four O'clock This
Morning Carried Germans Into Ad
vanced French Trenches from
Which They Were Imme
diately Ejected.
Paris, July 11. The situation re
mained the same on the Somme front
last night. The war office statement to
day says it has been ascertained that
south of the Somme the French in the
last two days have taken more than 1300
prisoners.
On the Verdun front the Germans
launched an attack at 4 o'clock this,
morning on the French positions from
Fleury to a point east of Chencis. They
succeeded in penetrating advanced French
trenches at some points but were ex
pelled immediately by counter-attacks.
West of the Meuse there was active
artillery fighting in the neighborhood cf
Avocourt and Chattancourt. Northeast
of Veho the Germans exploded four
mines, the craters of which were eventu
ally occupied by' the French.
WOOD CRITICIZED MOBILIZATION.
Thinks It Took Long Time to Get Out
the Militia.
Xew York. July 11. Ma jor-General
Leonard Wood, commanding the depart
ment of the east, in a statement issued
here last night, denied that, in an ad
dress before the convention of the Na
tional Education association he criticized
the officers and men of the National
Guard for delay in "springing to arms "
By "a rather heavy spring to arms,"
the general said, he meant to convey the
impression that it required an unusually
long time to mobilize even a small num
ber of the guard.
"My criticism," said the general, "was
not of the officers and men. but of the
system. It was intended to point out
the necessity for preparedness and indi
cate how fatally slow would be this kind
of mobilization in a serious emergency."
General Wood announced that troop
movements from now on will be slow.
Weeks may be required before certain
commands in the South will be able to
move. Every effort is being made to
rush recruits to the commands already
on the Mexican border, so that vacan
cies in the ranks due to the dependency
discharge order and other causes may oe
filled and the regiment brought up to
the required war strength.
were rescued. The patrol boats were en
countered near the Strait of Oranto, con
necting the Adriatic, and Ionian eas.
RUSSIANS CROSSING ST0KH0D.
CARRIED MAIL TO NEW YORK.
MONTE CORNO LOST
AND THEN REGAINED
Official Statement at Vienna Tells of
Success of Austrian Arms and the
Capture of 450 Italians
Berlin, by wireless, July 11. The offi
cial Austro-Hungarian statement of
Monday reports the continuance of heavy
fighting on the Italian front. Monte Cor
no was captured by the Italians but was
won back by the Austro-Hungarians, the
statement says, and 450 Italians were
taken prisoners. The Italians' attack in
the sector of Monte Interrotto failed.
Austro-Hungarian aeroplanes again
bombarded the Italian military estab
lishments at Adria.
SIX ATTACKS WON.
Germans Finally Entered Trones Wood
the British Admit.
London. July 11. After the sixth des
per.ite attack yesterday afternoon the
Germans succeeded in entering Troncn
wood, according to the British official
statement last night. This was at the
expense of very heavy casualties, the
statement adds, and the righting in the
wood continues.
The British troops, however, made
some gains in the neighborhood of (Kil
lers and La Boisselle, and in a particu
larly powerful attack on the German po.
t-itions in the Mametz wood succeeded in
winning some ground.
Officer of the Deutschland Complained of
Train's Motion.
New York, July 11. First Officer
Franz W. Krapohl, of the German subma
rine merchantman Deutschland, arrived
in Xew York late last night from Balti
more on his way to the German summer
embassy at Rye. He earned three sacks
of special mail and was accompanied by
Haniel Von Kaimhaueen, counsellor of
the embassv.
Coming from Baltimore, Kraphol com
plained of the motion of the train, say
ing:
"If this keeps up, I will get seasick."
He explained that the Deutschland
runs eo smoothly that one could play a
game of billiards within her at a depth
of 15 to 20 metres.
Reminded that all commerce vessels
entering the waters of tha. United States
must carry sufficient life saving devices
the first officer declared that the Deutsch
land was equipped with life boats and
life belts. Forward of the conning tow
er of the giant submarine, he said, was
a life boat with life belts and accommo
dations and provisions for 23 men, a
smaller boat aft of the conning tower
had accommodations for six men. He
stated the boats could be launched in two
minutes.
BRITISH MINIMIZE EFFECTS.
Declare Deutschland'a Feat Will Not Af
fect German Blockade.
London, July 11. The morning newt
papers while expressing admiration edi
torially for the feat of the German sub
marine Deutschland, insist that it can
not have the a!ightet military impor--j
tance nor can it tie regarded a a demon
stration of the ineffectiveness of the
British Morkade.
The Daily New says: "The captain
and the crew deserve congra tulations on
their pluck and lu-k. But all the voyage
proved ia that the thing ran be done and
that has been proved before. As far as
the war is concerned it is quite unimportant--'
Th Morning Telegraph says: "Th
HILLEGAS IS HOPEFUL
Of Getting Results in His Educational
Work in Vermont.
Burlington, July. 11. 8tat.e Commis
sioner of Education Milo B. Hillegas in
troduced himself to the union superin
tendents of schools as a body practically
for the first time yesterday afternoon
when the superintendents held their
opening meeting of the week in the Wil
liams Science hall at the university. The
commissioner told his hearers that his
policy would be not to disturb or tear
down, but continue in much the same
path aa hi predecessors.
The chief problem he and they had to
face, said he, had to do with supervision.
Xew buildings or improved buildings
arose when supervision first began, and
now the students themselves must be the
object of improvement. He said he was
hopeful of results.
The commiMioner suggested that arith
metic and spelling he chosen as the chief
subjects before this year's ronferepce.
Are Closely Tressing the Teutons, Says
Fetrograd Report.
Petrograd, via London, July 11. The
Russian forces advancing in Volhynia to.
wards Kovel are crossing the river Stok
hod at various points, closely pressing
the Teutonic forces opposite them, says
yesterday's war office statement.
"The passage of the river is lieing ac
complished under serious difficulties. The
oflicial communication savs that the
crossing of the river have in most cases
been dest roved b.v the opposing armies.
Throughout the whole, on both sides
of the front, aviators made numerous
flights. In the region of the ( houhinsky
canal east of the confluence of the Xie
men and the Beresini, our artillery
brought down a German aeroplane. The
pilot and the mechanic were made pris
oners. A group of at least 10 aeroplanes
attacked Molodevhno and dropped 40
bombs which s't the hay depot on fire.
"Xeir the villages of Svidniki. Stariy
MoMor and Xovy Mossor, on the left
bank of the Stokhod, lively fighting is
progressing. We took German prisoners
at these points.
"The total number of prisoners taken
by General KaWines from July 4 to
July 8 is 341 olficers, ft. 14.1 unwounded
soldiers. He also captured 10 pieces of
artillery, 4.1 machine guns, 16 bomb
throwers, 7.030 rifles, t2 limbers and de
pots of engineering materials. These fig
ures must be added to those given in the
communication of July 8, which included
300 officers, 1 -2,000 nie'n and 45 pieces of
artillery.
"On-the Galichn front, there was a
particularly intense artillery action on
both banks of the Dniester. In the
Dvina sector the enemy undertook an
offensive southeast of Lake Sventen but
was repulsed and thrown back into his
trenches.
"East of Baranovichi, in the region of
the village of Odmhawschi, the Germans
launched a counter attack which broke
down under our artillery and infantry
fire.
"In the Baltic one of our submarines,
in the course of its usual cruise, sank a
large German steamer loaded with iron
ore in the Gulf of Bothnia."
LOST COLLAR BUTTON
FOUND 21 MILEAGES
, 1, 1
Loot Taken from Fair Haven Railroad
Station Wat Discovered in Rutland
Hotel When Gueit Poked Un
der Bureau.
Rutland. July 11 The dropping of
collar button yesterday led to the dis
eovery of 21 stolen mileages beloncinii
to the Delaware Hudson railroad, va
uet at $220. They were taken June
21 when the depot at Fair Haven was
entered.
Just before leaving the St. J sinea ho
tel yesterday morning a guest who oc
cupied room 12, dropped a collar button
and it rolled under a bureau, the bottom
of which extended nearly to the floor
hen he stooiied to recover the eluaiv
button he saw a pile of mileage book
under the piece of furniture and tinned
out the 21. Although the room had len
occupied every night since June 24, the
thief booty had nut been discovered.
Finding so many tickets in Mich an tin
usual place aroused the suspicions of the
guest and he turned them over to th
proprietor. The register shows that
man who registered aa "James M. Steel
San Francisco, Cal.," oecupied room 12
011 the night of June 21. No one remeru
her how lie looked. The thief had care
fully dated the mileages with the depot
stamp.
The Fair Haven station was again
broken into yetterday but nothing of
value was taken.
SIX PROGRESSIVES NAMED
On the Campaign Committee of Republi
can National Committee.
Xew York, July 11. The roster of the
campaign committee of the Republican
national committee was announced late
yesterday. The campaign committee is
comosed of the Republican executive
committee and six Progressives.
The niemlters of the campaign com
mittee are as follows:
John T. Adams, Iowa, Republican; Ev
erett Colby, New Jersey, Progressive;
Wm. H. Crocker, California, Republican;
V: W. Estabrook, Xew Hampshire., Re
publican; James R. Garfield, Ohio, Pro
gressive; James A. Hemenway, Indiana,
Republican; A. T. Hert, Kentucky, Re
publican; I!. B. Howell, Nebraska, Re
publican; Harold L. Iekes, Illinois, Pro
gressive; Alvah H. Martin, Virginia, Re
publican; Herbert Parsons. Xew York,
Republican; George W. Perkins, Xew
York, Progressive; S. A. Perkins,
Washington, Republican; Chester H.
Row ell, California, Progressive; Oscar S.
Straus, Xew York, Progressive ; Charles
B. Warren, Michigan, Republican, and
Ralph E. Williams, Oregon, Republican.
James B. Reynolds of Washington, D.
C was named as secretary. Mr. Rey
nolds is also secretary of the national
committee.
X'o announcement was made as to who
will be chosen as treasurer. Neither was
date set for formal, notification to Mr
Hughes 01 nis nomination. it was
learned, however, that the time probably
will be julv 31 and the place l arnegie
hall, Xew York. v
DEPENDS ON
SHIP'S STATUS
Whether There Will Be Dip
lomatic Complications
Over the Deutschland
RULING EXPECTED
INSIDE OF 36 HOURS
Collector of Customs Ryan
of Baltimore Is Sub
mitting Report
Washington. D. C, July 11. No diplo
matic complications are seen by the fed
eral officials to-day in the arrival at Bal-
imore of the German super-submarin
Deutschland if the examination estab-
ishes that the vessel is a merchantman
and nothing else. A ruling on the craft'a
tatus will be made when the report com
ing from Collector of Customs Ryan at
Baltimore haa been gone over, which
probably will be within M hours.
Acting Secretary of State Polk said he
ntieipated no protests from the allied
governmenta against the decision expect-
d to be forthcoming that the Deutsch
land ia an unarmed freighter.
Representations were made to the
tate department to-day by the British
nd French embassies, setting up the
claim that the Deutschland is potentially
warship even though designed and used
s a merchant.
Baltimore, Md., July 11. The German
merchant submarine Deutschland may
begin to-day to discharge her cargo of
yestuffs unless diplomatic complications j
1 ne cargo will be placed in a
bonded warehouse, to be disposed of later
by a local representative of the vessel's
owners. I he question has arisen w heth
er the submarine will be permitted to
take back to Germany a large quantity
of the nickel ready on the dock for her.
The shipment of the nickel to the United
States from Canada has been allowed on
condition that it should not reach tin
central powers. The Canadian govern
ment is said to be considering the new
situation.
After passing quarantine and once
fely alongside of his dock, Captain
Koenig called his crew ashore and nosed
TO HOLD RILEY
AS WITNESS
rending Investigation of the Fatal Shoot
ing of John Dennehy at Montpelier
Junction, Who Died Monday Young
Man'i Remains Shipped to Ha
verhill, Mass.
The remains of John JVnnehy, the
young victim of a shooting affray at
Montpelier Junction the evening of June
20, were shipped this forenoon over the
Central Vermont road to Haverhill,
Mass., where the funeral service will take
pUce anil interment made. The body
waa unaccompanied bv friend or rela
tive.
I'nder the direction of Dr. It. H. Stone
of Burlington anil the state's attorney,
an autopsy was performed at the under
taking rooms yesterday afternoon, the
authorities gathering information from
the examination which may assist them
in bringing to justice the murderer or
murd erers of the man.
Frank Rilev, companion of Dcnnehv,
will be detained in jail indefinitely, an
nnuest held at the courthouse following
the autopsv i-ausinir the authorities to
letermine to hold Rilev as a witness.
When first taken into custody at the
ime of the shooting he told the officers
hat two Italim section men shot Den
nehy and from the first Filey has not
lieen suspected as being in any way re-
ponsible for his friend's deith. The in
quest van held before Assistant Judge
(ieorge H. Dale of Waterburv and no
other developments, if there were any.
were made public.
GENTLE PROD
TO CARRANZA
Told That Negotiations
Need Not Await Lan
sing's Return
AMERICAN r iCIALS
ANXI0T y 0 END IX
They Accede to Any
thing That Assures
Quick Action
DECIDED INCREASE
IN THE EPIDEMIC
During the Past 24 Hours 195 New Cases
of Infantile Paralysis Developed in
New York City, and There
Were 32 Deaths.
Xew York, July 11. A decided in
crease in the number of deaths and new
cases in the epidemic of infantile paraly
sis was reported to-day. During the past
24 hours, new cases developed in the
five bornuch of Xew York City, and
there were 32 deaths.
Washington, D. C, July 11. Genera!
Omnza has been notified that the nego
tiations for eettlement of the border dif
ficulties need not await the return of
Secretary of State Lansing from his va.
cation. It is expected that Carranza will
propose formal rather than informal con
versations between Ambassdnr Arredon
do and the state department. Americae
officials will accede to any plan which as
sures quick action.
SENDING MEXICAN
SOLDIERS HOME
Military Commander of Sonora Thinki
They Will Be More Needed There
To Till the Soil.
Douglas. Ariz., July 11 In a state
ment issued to the Associated Tress last
night, General P. Elias Calles, military
commander of Sonora, said:
"Advices I received to-day from Mex
ico City were so satisfactory and mad-i
me feel so sure there can be no break
Tliia ia a f ... .1 i . . ... ......
...r, ,n ,,, , ,i,- ii,u ,,, , ltd" pen .Mexico ami the L nited State
per cent in the number of deaths from it hat I have ordered the demobilization
the plague in the 21 hours ending at 10 J of my troops now in the border districts
o'clock this morning as compared with land their discharge from the national
the previous day's record. The .lea ths service and ordered the re-opening of all
since the outbreak of the scourge number I public offices along the border.
I have also extended an invitation
2.n. There are at present over 1.2H0
cases of the disease in the greater city.
REVENUE BILL PASSED.
Was Put Through the House by Vote cf
240 to 140.
Washington, D. C, July 11. The ad
ministration's omnibus revenue bill, cre
ating a tariff commission, imposing a
FOUND BODY IN RIVES.
Evidently It Had Been in
Some Time.
Water for
TRIED TO ATTACK LAWYER.
INQUIRY STARTED
To learn if Representative Woolley Is
Receiving Pay.
Washington, D. C. July 11. Repre
sentative Moore of Pennsylvania (Re
ptiblican) introduced a resolution vester-
day, inquiring of Secretary McAdoo as
to whether Director Woollpy of the mint
bureau has be-n givn leave of absence
to act as publicity director for the Dem
ocratic national committee and whether
Mr. Woolley is to continue on the gov.
eminent payroll during such absence.
Prisoner Orpet Was Enraged at Attor
ney's Denunciation.
Waukegjn, 111., July 11. Will H. Or
pet, charged with the death of Mis Mar
ian Lambert, yesterday afternoon broke
through the restraint he has put on him
self since he was planed on trial two
months ago for the murder of his school -
day sweetheart. Stung to fury by the
closing arguments of Assistant State At
torney Kugene M. Runva.ru, who de
nounced him as a condemned vouth with
the brand of Cain upon his brow, and
painted in lurid colors to the jury the
story of Helm's woods tragedv, Orpet
attempted to attack the prosecutor phy
sically.
It was just after court had taken a
recess. As the prosecutor paused in the
engthy argument Orpet lunged from his
chair between his mother and Mrs. Ed
win Taylor, his former boarding-house
landladv in Madison, and attempted to
reach Runvard.
Only the quick action of the two wom
en prevented him from doing so. Cling
ing to his arms, they forced him back m
his seat and held him. The aged mother
whispered soothingly until his aager sub-
lded.
Runvard appeared unconcerned over
the incident, which threw the crowded
courtroom into a panic. Orpet, accom
panied by a bailiff, stalked into the wit
ness room adjoining the courtroom and
gave vent to his feelings.
"The d liar," he said. "Do you
hear what he is telling about me? Lies,
all lies. I wish 1 could have got to him
when I started."
Brattleboro, July 11. Chief of Police
Gwrge Wilson was notified about S
o'clock last night that the body of a
drowned man was floating in the Con
necticut river about 15 feet from the
shore about half a mile south of this;
village.
Chief Wilson with the aid of a motor
boat moved the body nearer the shore
and anchored it to a log. He was un
able to recognize the dead man and
thought that he might have been in the
water for a week or more. He was a
medium sized, man with working clothes
and a pair of khaki trousers.
Chief Wilson notified the board of se
lectmen of Brattleboro, who immediate
ly telephoned to W. E. Fay, one of the
selectmen of Hinsdale. X. H., as the body
was considered by the local officers to be
in that town.
The medical examiner of Hinsdale waa
at Keene so that he did not get to Brat
tleboro until a late hour last evening
to take the body from, the river.
ith them for moving picture and news- ( protective tariff on dvestuffs, repcalins
paper photographers. He laughed and; present taxes and providinsi for new
chatted with the correspondents, but rv- (taxes on incomes, inheritances and war
to foreigners to return to Sonora and
will protect them and their property.
"All of the volunteers who took up
arms for their country have been ordered
to their home to plant their fields and
aid the government in bringing about
a return of normal conditions.
"The railroads of Sonora will re-open
for public, traffic immedia'elv. I havs
ordered the bulk of my troops to pro
ceed to the laqm river 'to take up the
Indian campaign once more in order-
framed from discussing his achievement munitions profits 'passH the House late ht. hf and ProPprt "f Mexicans ami
....... ..... .1 . ' 1 ifnrmmara .-vj.t, ha enfn
until after lie had reported to the agents
of hi owners.
Later at the office of the North Ger
man Lloyd, he issued - a typewritten
statement telling of the coming of other
boats like, the Deutschland and assert
ing that his voyage had broken the Brit
ish control of the seas. At the same time
he submitted to an interview in which be
described his 3800-mile cruise from Hel
goland to Chesapeake bay. He denied re
ports that he had been chased on his
course by enemy warships, declaring that
so far as he knew there was not an allied
war craft in the Atlantic. The captain
asserted further that his vovage had
yesterdav by a vote of 240 to 140.
During the closing hours of debate sev
eral amendments, providing for elimina
tion of the bankers tax and modifying
the tariff commission section, were
adopted over the opposition of Demo
cratic leaders. On the final roll call the
Democrats voted solidly for the bill and
were joined bv 34 Republicans, five Pro
gressive Republicans, one Independent
nil one iioeialisr.
The amendments adopted cut the sal
aries of members of the tariff commis
sion from $10,000 to $7,500 annual! v;
struck out the provision under which no
member or former member of Congress
established the fact that a submarine j could serve on the commission: and pro
of the type of the Deutschland couidjvided a single appropriation of $300,000
travel anywhere that the ordinary ves- j to pay expenses of the commission the
sel could go, 13.000 miles, if necessary, first year instead of the. bill's stipulation
He had no fears, he stated, of his abiii-of a continuing annual appropriation of
ty to elude enemies that might be wait-that amount. 'The entire section levy
ing for him off the Virginia capes when j ing a tax of one dollar for each $1,000 of
he starts his return trip. I capital, surplus and undivided profits
"I will be able to submerge within !held bv bankers was stricken out.
foreigners might be safe.
"Each of ray subordinate enmmandere
has been instructed to punish any one,
eoldier or civilian, who does not exteuu
every courtesy to foreigners."
The managers of several of the large
mining properties in Sonora had con
ferences with General Calles yesterday
by his request and personally received
the invitation of the Mexican govern
ment to return to work with their for
eign employes.
CONFERENCES HELD.
VIOLATED FISHING LAWS.
One Man Had Short TTOut; Another Mad
Night Line.
Middlebury, July 11. Lloyd Long of
xvarren, a rural mail earner, airestcd
bv County Fish and Game Warden
George Chaffee of this village, and War
den H. Murray, on a charge of having
short trout in his possession, was taken
before Justice of the Peace George Sar
gent, who fined him $35 and costs,
amounting to $30. 55, which he arranged
to pay.
County Fish and Game Warden Chaffee
and Warden Floyd Tatro of Addison,
searched a houseboat on Lake Champlain
belonging to Alexander Blake Saturday
and found a night lin 150 long, which is
against the law. I hey arrested Mr.
Blake and took him before Justice of
Peace Millard Barnes who fined him $100
and costs, wliich he arranged to settle.
to
the three-mile limit, and they cannot
catch me after that," he said.
During nearly the entire voyage
America, said Captain Koenig,
Deutschland traveled on surface.
Once s-he submerged, for 10 hours and
lay during that time on the bottom ot
the English channel to escape British de
Many amendments proposed by the
ways and means committee also were
adopted including one under which cig
the,rette manufacturers must pav a special
tax of three cents on every 10,000 cigar
ettes. The bill which now goes to the Senate
j increases the surtax on incomes, rang
stroyers. Captain Koenig piloted his ves- hnfr from an additional one per cent, on
sel out of Bremen on June 14. He went 'incomes between $20,000 and $40,000 to
directly to Helgoland, remaining there jio per cent additional on those above
nine days. On June 23 the trip was bo- !.i00,000 and taxes transfers of estates
gun. After completing the formalties j valued at $,V).000 or more and net profits
with the port authorities, Captain Koenig ;cf War munitions manufactures, with an
was invited to luncheon as the guest of exemption of those having less than ten
nonor of tne t,erman duo tnere ana mere jpPr ffni profit
ITALIAN LINER HELD IN PORT.
The Roma Carries Mounted 90-Millimetet
Gun.
Providence, R. I. July 11. The Fabre
lina steamship Roma is held in this poit
because of a 90 millimeter gun mounted
on ner after fleex. i ne noma arriveti
from Mediterranean ports late Saturday
and waa scheduled to continue her trip
to Xew York at nine o clock this morn
ing. Collector of the Port Frank E. Fitzim
nions said that she will not be permit-
Ta to neprx until munnir im mrorj j
from W aaaington.
PORTLAND WANTS IT.
Next Convention of the Nobles of the
Mystic Shrine.
Buffalo, X. Y., July 11. Imperial Po
tentate J. Putnam Stevens of Lwiston,
Me., arrived here yesterday afternoon
and opened headquarters for the 42d an
nual session of the Imperial Council, Xo
bles of the Mvstic Shrine.
Minneapolis was regarded by many
delopates as the most probable meeting
place for next year. Other cities seek
ing the honor are Atlanta, Portland, Ore..
Portland. Me., and Atlantic Citv.
delivered to Haniel von Haimhaussen,
counsellor of the German embassy, the
packet of official correspondence des
tined to Count von Bernstorff. The coun
sellor had journeyed here from Xew
York, was a guest with the Deutsch
land's master at the luncheon and went
back to Xew York last night.
There will be no objection on the part
of Captain Koenig, commander of the
Deutschland. to the inspection of his
craft bv officers of the I'nited States
navv, Koenig announced to-day. The
work of discharging the cargo was com
menced before noon.
BREMEN IS ON WAY.
Another Submarine Said to Have Left
German Port.
Amsterdam, via London, July 11. An
other commercial submarine, the Bremen,
which was constructed by the same com
pany that built the Deutschland. now in
American port, has already left its har
bor, according to the Berlin Vossische
Zeitung.
The new taxes are expected to yield
$197,000,000 annually.
The tariff commission would be com
posed of five members, no more than
three to be of the same political party
and would have broad powers of inves
tigation. The bill also carries an anti
dumping provision to protect American
producers from unfair foreign trade prac
tices.
LIGHTNING STARTED DAMAGE.
But No Arrangements Made for Mexican
Parleys.
Washington. D. C. July 11. Eliseo Ar
redondo, ambassador designate of the
Mexican de facto government, conferred
yesterday with Acting Secretary of State
Polk, but did not make any suggestions
regarding the prospective negotiations
for the settlement of differences between
the United States and Mexico. Mr. Ar
redondo said he had not yet received in
structions from Mexico City.
Henry P. Fletcher, ambassador to Mex
ico, was in the state department when
Mr. Arredondo called and was presented
to the Mexican envoy for the first time
bv Mr. Polk. The three officials dis-
j cussed Mexican affairs in general.
Major Doughs MacArthur, the mili
tary censor, issued the following official
denial of food shortage among militia:
"The attention of the war department
has been called to several articles ap
pearing in newspapers claiming that the
I militia troops are not being properly ra
tioned.
"Although no, other official complaint!
to this effect has been received the war'
department has investigated three al
leged instances and can report them ab
solutely unfounded. Everywhere the
troops are being excellently cared for and
the men them-elves have no complaint
to make. Such rumors unjustifiably
alarm the parents and relatives of th
militiamen and act a a deterrent ipon
recruiting."
War department officials said yester
day they had received no formal applica
tion from Colonel Theodore Roosevelt for
authority to raise a division of volunteer
troops for service in the event of war
with Mexico.
VILLA IS DIRECTING
EACH ACCUSES THE OTHER.
WOMAN SENTENCED.
Set Fire to Building in East Concord;
Loss is $3,200.
St. Johnsbury, July 11. The house
owned by Iwis Nichols of Fast ton
cord was" struck by lightning and burned
to the ground. Several electrical storms
at intervals of an hour euliminated in a
severe one at 1:15. Mr. Nichols, who was : if Not Actually Leading the Bandit
sleeping up stairs, was awakened by a ForfM jn Sonthn Chihuahua.
Revere crah to find the supper part of j
the house in flames. He gave the alarm j El Paso. Texas. July 11 The Mexican
and nearbv neighbors made every at-I authorities in Chihuahua City believe,
tempt to save the furnishings, but the that Villa is directing, if not actually
fire spread o rapidly that little could . leading, the bandits in their operation
h vd The barn, and out-buildingn in southern Chihuahua, according to aa
i burned and three adjoining houses caught ! American w ho is in close touch with af
ifire. but little damage resulted. Mr fairs and who reached the border to-day.
' Nichols' losa is about $3,200. ' He said that General Trevino. the Car-
i" - rana commander, received official re
ports that before the clash at Jimine
the Villa force capture! and sacked the
CAPITALIZED AT $:CK),M0.
WAS NATIVE OF CHELSEA.
Oldest Surviving Alumnus of Amherst
College, Rev. Artemui Dean.
"He haa a limited number of friends
"He'a lucky then." "In what way"
"He's kept down the number of fellows
temus Dean, said to be the oldest aurviv- to three veara in state prison at Wind
ing alumnus of Amherst college, and a sor. where she will prcbaoly he taken to
Mr. and Mra. Fred Bailey are Chargtd
with Sending Obscene Letters.
Burlington, July II. There was a
hearing vesterdav afternoon before Cnit-
i . . . - - i i
Mrs. Amanda Gary Geta Two Yean ,TrL "
(An in fn ran of KM Kailav mnA hB
Wmdsor for AJultery. Life, who were arreted bv Denutv
St. Albans. July 11. Mrs. Amanda I I'nited States Marshal Thomas Reeves 'ciatmn w ith the secretary of state, w it! gy Eating Fish Suppvsed to
Clary of Fletcher was arraigned before (on the charge of having sent obsorna Vapitsl stck of f 20.000. The wnpany. j Spoiled: All Recovered
luixge N. I o-l in niY court vesleroav . leviera inr--uca mr aim. j ne neanng s mr nn- imp. ur?. ;
v,.rr..A ith ..hilterv." She fninil ni continued for ten davs. Mrs. Bai-'wat-r rower and storage reservoirs in j
guilt v and sentem-ed to serve from two; ley was allowed to go on her own recog-
Essez Storage Electric Co. Files Articles itown of Dial, several .miles north and
of Association. cut ,ff ,hf '""" pf pt-
jTie Kss-i Storage F.Iectric Co.. In?., of j
St -lohnstwiry nas.niea armies oi
Hav
SOLDIERS WERE MADE ILL
Mount Cannel. Pa.. Julv 11. Rev. Ar-
j nuance ana niiey w neia. not heir.g
ib!e to furnish auretT in the amount !
voyage i interesting aa an illustration I who want to ell him stocks, real estate. I prominent Presbvterian derrvman. dididav. She was arrested in Fletcher Sun- bail, whKh waa fcxed at fl.noo. hath
fi ucre with which phyncal science is and minmj propositions to tLe mini- here last nipht. He was born in Chelsea, dav bv Deputy Sheriff C. F. Ct-rse of declare that the other wrote the kt
trixniiiuti over cbtacic tiat were re- ctuin " Detroit Free Tres. J t-, ia liJl. that to-wn. ttra.
El Taso. Tex.. Julv H. A were ot
Cadoma and F.sscx counties on t He . the soldiers of the !t;i Mxsachusett in-
Mwe river and tributaries; and theitantry her a me slightly ill esrly yester
ufcriber are T. W. of rann.p- j day after et;rr f.-h supposed to be
-k. Fred D. I.ilman. Hatr H Carr. Free- "railed Me-Iwat c-fh.-er announced Usl
mn A. Pierce, tliarks G. Laiiy, a'J of ruht that all hs j rercr d w.th.a a few
fct. Johntb-arr. lioura.
