NIGHT
EXTRA
y
HE-NO. 25
Cuenf ng
" " e
'--
ilIAN ARMY
!PS AHEAD
UPON TRIESTE
a'i Troops Only Nine
From- Their Mam
Objective
yTO FLANK ENEMY
Withdrawal Near Mon
roe Will Open Way to
ane Will Open Way
to City
SWorlous troops of OJncral
iLalgi Cadorna aro sweeping: for
iTtheir great -offensive against
X The Italians aro now only nine
LjVom their main objective, tho
I joint of ''Italia Irredenta." Tho
'fc particularly sovcro southeast
eta and cast of Monfalcone,
m Italian infantry, aided by hun-
rgnfhs, is attempting to (lank tho
M' by compelling their retire
hs the Monfalcone region and
f Jorce open tho road to 'Trieste.
ns aro within easy artillery
L't the city. The total number of
I taken by them has reached
r-'k.i.s believed that tho Italian
i "ill compel tho Austrians to
forcements from other the-
1 fno war to tho Isonoz front.
duels aro reported by tho
t War Offico on tho Sommo and in
French aeroplanes raided
1 railway station ut Vignculles.
troops captured a number of
in raids near Messines,
Wood and Haisenes.
it situation in Transylvania and in
of Kumania is most critical
Romanians.. Badly biaten by
of General Falkenhayn, the
i aro still continuing their re-
Only'strong Russian re-enforce-
I 'wy stem the onward sweep of
ans into the heart of Rumania.
Miration on the. Macedonian front
favorable to the Allieswho
totently pushing forward along'
ire' line in their drive on Mon-
elqpments of Importance are
FUalicia'aJid Volhynia.
riwmination of Greece by tho
jpyow complete. Byr seizing the
"ivy and the forts along the
l, well as the' Piraeus-Larrisa
.the Entente commanders are
ii complete control of the situa-
JR ja reported that England and
L'ilan to recognize the revolu-
f government of Vcnizclos'.as the
government of Greece.
rnHiADELPmA, Thursday, October 12, 1010
Constant, 1018, t th rcuo I tears Courmt.
COP SLAYS MAN
IN AUTO MK-UP;
WOMAN DETAINED
Victim Shot as He Flees
Scene of Suspected
Theft
Companion arrested
-E -iLjHfS(i
---'2P'' 9mimB 4
fl IC 1 I- iP' f
--- mICT' I
A'S TROOPS WITHltf
HtfcERY RANGE OF -TRIESTE;
vrtiiuivci uuuu imounrjivo
, T,W -. -.
Mnr Italian, drive, with Trieste as Its
6 'object, continues.
'troops southeast of Gorilla and'
f-Monfalcone are pounding away at
Hungarian llnea with hundreds
while In the lulls of the cannon-
Infantry sweeps forward against
iter ed- trenches.
irom the front today state that
dment of the Austrian lines be-
Thursday morning at i o'clock.
: seven-mile front between the VI-
tr and Novavas. It was carried on
t interruption until Tuesday, when
(grand assault was launched against
, east of Novavas.
rst day of the attack, 2000 prls
re "taken and Hill 208 was can.
fcOa "Wednesday 3000 moro prisoners
Pftwed. 'The total number of prls
Mbas far Is 0600.
ae of this fight Is about nine
i Trieste, which city Is now with-
artillery range of the Italians.
ans seek to fianiftho Austrian
rt of Qorlila and east of Mon-
wween the OorUta-St. Daniel
I Honfalcone-Trleate railroads a'
aeing driven eastward. Further
will comnel (h hm... .- ...
ppaea north and south, which ih
P, Jor months against furious as-
l Auetrtans fall hark nt m
i y wlu bo Ofwwd for a drive
!?". along the coastal railway.
PJK ays the Italians heavy guns
P'tke enemy's rirn. .. ..'
" assault Bfnr It.. lnr..l...
ncbee the Austrian fortmcatlon
wuoyea. The rush of the troop
-", wnnewoa. Every objective was
innn the lUllan took the
JaaH e fax y.
WALTER SCOTT SCHANK
"Walter Scott Schank, twenty-seven years
old, of 5111 Thompson street, was shot
and hilled before daylight today while
trying to escape f romSi policeman Vho was
pursuing, him on suspicion of being one, of
a gang of men who were attempting to
steal an automobile from In front of a
house on Fifty-second street north of Glrard
avenue.
Joseph Mackln, a subpoltceman of the
Sixty-first and Thompson streets station,
was held without ball by Magistrate Pen
nock at Central Station to await the action
of the Coroner, charged with causing
Schank's death. John W. Ryan, nineteen
years old, of 4991 Glrard avenue, who was
arrested by Policeman Brawley as one of
Shank's companions, was held under, 800
ball for couA on suspicion of larceny, and
Mrs. Bertha J. Stonemcrsthlrty-nlno years
old, of 5148 Stiles street, wife of a former
policeman, was held under MOO bail as a
material witness. Mrs. Stonemetz, the po
lice say, was In tho alley when they came
upon the suspects. Her presence there at
TRENCH .FALLS ON "SOLDIER"
Jlcrchantville Boy, Awaiting "Mexi
cans," Buried and, Hurt
noth the police and civilians were called
upon to render assistance when a "battle"
between "Mexican" and American forces In
Merehanlvllle took an unexpected turn to
day, Twelve-yeaiold Oswald Lewis, 105
Chapel street, and his five youthful com
panlons may all be good soldiers In the
near future. Ao yet, however, they still
have to learn how to dig or build a trench.
The boys had entrenched themselves to
await the attacking "Mexlcana" today.
The battlefield was a vacant lot; toy
swords and pistols flourished, and cries rent
the air. Suddenly the trrnrh vOt.n.i
Pswald was burled up to his neck so firmly
mai u took time jxnd a mighty effort to
Extricate him. Thi boy was taken to the
Cooper Hospital wnVre he was found to be
suffering with a. Broken leg and severe
lacerations.
COLUMBUS DAY
GAME AT BOSTON
DRAWS 35,000
Great Holiday Crowd Wit
nesses Fifth Game of
World's Series on
Braves' Field
royal rooters on job
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
linAVE3' FIELD, nOSTON. Oct .
The Boston Ited Sox and Brooklyn Dodgers
met here this afternoon In the fifth game
of the 191S world's'serles. The crowd num
bered about 35.000, according to tho con
sensus of expert opinion, although no offi
cial statement was given out early.
The weather was chilly, but the sun was
shining brightly, and the field was In per
fect condition for tho fray, which Boston
followers believed would be the last of the
series. The usual band concert preceded
the game, and the Royal Itooters rehearsed
"Tesslo" as they waved their crimson ban
ners. Both teams appeared on the field shortly
after 1 o'clock, and the Ited Sox lmmedl-
ntely began batting practice. The crisp
weather put a lot of pepper Into the men.
and they frisked around the big lot speedily
as they chased the long drives from the
regulars' bats.
Not until two minutes before the game
the unusual .., I. nf i...i ,...., "" ,w am wno wouia pilcn, DUt Jt.WttS
, y. .... vlmcu. . ,. ,,..,., ,. ... , .... .
Mrs. stonenrtts told the. Magistrate wton-I ,V S ' -;7"-"" "'"" n or
rir.rt A.V'.i., v.;, .- ", , ... T.. T.rl I-"frerrwould-be orf-the-mouild forBrookh-n'
arraigned, that she had entered the alley as
a short cut to heriome and was stopped, by
lour young men. She had left them and
was In her home when arrested, ,sho said.
The police -aay she was m the" alley, sur
rounded by tho su-jpected men, when they
arrived -upon the,ocene.
MESSAGE TO POLICES.
The shooting occurred at Fiftieth street
and Glrard avenue. It followed a telephone
message received at the station house by
Acting Sergeant Hart that three men were
behaving suspiciously about an automobile
'which Elwood McCurdy,- of 1604 .North
Edgewood street, had left outside of a house.
Contlnaed on Tate Two, Column Four
MOTHER DYING, GIRfc,
HAND ON BIBLE, DENIES
PART IN RIDER MURDER
"Believe Me, Mama, I'm Inno
cent," Millie di Marco Cries
at Parent's Bedside in
Hospital
"I blD NOTHING WRONG"
WEATHER
FOKSCAST
rridau nnrtl., -I-..J.. ,
"6tKW'Wt
?:lfiS5-5fci:,Wa:
lit Uvn lu.
nUrJjrr "- 'AWI
x::wff&g:;Wt
-vmm T MAIM M
a
At the bedside of her mother, who Is
dying In the Jefferson Hospital, Millie dl
Marco, of 1128 South Twelfth street, swore
that ah had no part In the conspiracy to
hold up A. J. Itlder, the wealthy crapberry
grower of Hammonton, N. J., which crime
resulted In the killing of , Henry Itlder' and
the wounding of three other persons,
The girl, who is nineteen year old, was
taken to the 'hospital last night -by Detec
tives Boyer and Woodward. She had
worked In the Itlder household, and the po
lice 'theory held her as the Instigator of
the' attempted robbery that cost the life of
Mr. niders brother and the shooting of
Mrs, Elsie Smathers, his daughter, and
Qeorge.7llgbyt an employe.
' The surviving victims' of the traredv are
patients In, the same hospital where Mrs.
dl Marco recently underwent a. 'serious
operation. She regained consciousness last
night and asked for her daughter. Judge
Flnletter .gfinted the dying woman's plea
when It was presented by A. I). Gordon
Davis, counsel for the girl, and Issued a per
mit to take the daughter from the County
Prsen to the hospital.
TENSB AND DRAMATIC SCENH,
The scene a.Mrs.'Bl Marco's bedside .was
tense and dramatic. - The dyng wewan
reeegnteed her child, and,' with her, waning
sirsjnrtfi, elf4 ujxm her to tell why site
h4 takes part In the oriroe.
Wtb'iipok ia Italian, her words 'bets
oeawoly alible to Ue deteetrves and hoe-
bJUI atteadaats wtu) U4 about the rieta.
. ' "HUIU, why did yo4 da thatf nut
tfc mother. ?! firl, r 'irem
sWk erf the Am gtw. n
A IHWe rH M a tM at tfee
MUtia babsM the book. PhMtog
W right hawl MMn l ccvr aha W-4
hMMtf, and then Jeokiag etfalf ht MMTOh.
Klaatag eyes of her potW, ,rpl-d! "I
mrmr Ut I an looewt I n't hv
sjulaj- to 4o frith 'U-T-balleve ata, wiamiii.
the-mouilil forBrooklnj'
and Ruth for the Bed Sox.
It Oias been a life-Jong ambition of
Ilucker to pitch In a world's series, but If
It had ot' been for the large lead got
by the American League champions, he
probably would have complted his career
without realiilng his ambition, os Man
ager Robinson was guided by sentiment In
picking the' famous southpaw to finish the
contest
For years Itucker was recognized as the
greatest left-hander in the National League,
but then he was In his' prime, the Dodgers
were a tall-end team nd the southerner
really (itched his arm away for a hope
less cause. Kate decreed that Ilucker
should have trouble with his arm Just
when Brooklyn developed a strong team,
but If ho never pitches another brilliant
game, he at least can look with pride on
his two-Inning work against the IteJ Sox.
It developed today that the former
Mackmen who now are with the Red Sox,
will not fare as well from the world series
as was expected. At a meeting of the vet
eran members of the Red Sox. It was de
cided that Weldon -"Wyckoff and Herb Pen
nock would divide one full share between
them, while Jlmmle Walsh would split a
share with two other players who have
not been with the team all season.
It was announced last night that the
deal between Charles Ehbets and his
partners for the sale of the Brooklyn fran
chise to Charles Keltman, a millionaire coal
operator, had not been completed and that
James Gaftney, former owner of the Bos
ton .Braves, hod entered the field. Qaffney
accompanied the Dodgers to Boston and
had a long talk with Ebbets, after which It
was said that the deal had just about been
consummated, although It Is reported that
Qaffney and Feltman may decide to be
come partners In the venture. It la reason
ably certain that Ebbets will retire from
the game before next spring even If the
present deagi fall through.
HEROES' DRAG BABY
. FROM GREEDY -FLAMES
Brave Policeman and Equally
Ditto Fireman Have Eternal
Thanks of "Dolly"
When a human life has been In peril Po
liceman Kleins, of the Second apd Chris
tian streets station, has never been known
to falter. ' p
He was among the first on the scene to-
Uday at a Are at the Constantinople boarding
house. 602 South Third street. The board
ers fled as oeon as smoke begsir to pour
through the hallways..
Kleins thought he heard a ery for help.
He groped his way up the stairs, and on
rsMhlag a rear bedioom da the third Boor
ean. Infant aeleHn bed. As tho staoka
was almfat overpowering XMm called
ytremaa Weetoott, of tWe taoHraao Patrol,
who was Hwbr. ad tMiir,arrjd tho baby
to the straat' '
The child lay, molleaW (a aama of
Us rescuers. They thoMia it was Ua4 us
til they dlaoovered that ftN fait wAy
n4 rigid. , Then tho MM iiWua that
thoy bad taken all U trouMe to s,vo a doll.
ec ids
to a. daughter ,af
Sees, mmmm rasl
It belonged
War4or.-
Ttio origin X t0 ", rkk
f imu
ak)w
JOHNSON ORDERS
LANNINT0G0;
CARRI6AN QUITS
"Ban" Angered Because Red
Sox Owner Said Umpires
Were Unfair
MAGNATE WILL FIGHT
t jlJIBSK
Si
r,wKyTwi''' v a -- -
Q J. J. LANNIN
President of tho Boston Red Sox.
BOSTON, Oct 12. When the wirld'a
series Is over two men, who have done (more
for baseball In Boston than any president
and manager ever connected with tho lo-'
cat American League probably will bo re
tired from the game. A Boston victory
today will clinch the world's tltlo for the
second successive time, and 'as soon as Uie
series ends President Jo Lannln and Bltf
Carrlgnn no longer will bo connected with
the Red Sox, according to persons who are
very close to President Johnson, of tho Ju
nior organization.
BUI Carrlgan announced a few weeks ago
thjffafter the series he positively would re
rom the game. At the time Carrlgan's
etWfement was not taken seriously, but he
told' us .this morning that he never would
don a baseball . uniform nftcr today npd
that he also would resign as manager of
tho Red Sox, while last night wo were told
that President Lannln would bo requested
to sell his franchise before" the December
meeting of the American League-
Ssveral weeks ago Lannln accused the
American League .umpires ot being delib
erately unfair to tho Red Sox. At the tlmo
surprise was expressed that President
Johnson did not kick up a rtlmpus, but it
develops that Johnson did not want any
scandal during tho playing season, particu
larly as ,the Red Sox looked like the likely
pennant winner In the American League.
Shortly af'er the series ends, Johnson Is
going to Inform Lannln that he forfeited
his right to run an American League fran
chise when he accused the umpires of being
unfair to Boston and he "will bo offered a
Continued en Tase Two. Column FIto
'mTO-MINllfEMAN
ADVERTISES HIMSELF;
HAS BRAINS FOR SALE
Forced Out of $5000 Position by
War, He Says He "Eats
Work, Doesn't Watch
Clock"
RECEIVES MANY OFFERS
:.
Stralghf-From-Shoulder
Ad Gets Quick Replies
MAN with ?5000 job will loso It
November 80 on account of war
circumstances.
Ho believes in advertising:, and is
Suiting; on a campaign to sell his
rains, and his ability to tho best
advantage.
Ho put o "straight-from-the-shoulder"
nd jn tho Ledger.
By noon had four answers, ono
offering him a $4000-a-yenr position,
with two years trial at that salary.
In twenty-four hours he had nine
answers offering him positions, some
paying his present salary, &
All nl.io offers aro from big
companies.
Philadelphia has one man, perhaps more,
who believes n advertising raised to the
nth power, which power, ho asserts, is thj
laying aside 'of profits of one year 'every
five years for advertising purposes.
He believes In advertising to tho extent
of putting on an advertising campaign for'
himself, since circumstances have arisen
which will deprive him of a t$Q0O-ayear
position on November SO, with one of the
"best-kti Wt food specialty concerns In tho
country. t
And wltli'u six hours after starting hU
campaign In tho 'Lsdokr, this young man,
for ho, Is but .27 years old, had received four
effwa of positions, by mail and telegram.
Aro of tho offers Is for a M900-a-year posU
tton, with a two-year trial at that salary.
In twetttyifour hours bo had Vi mora. .of.
fers, making aloe, soma payittfr Mfr&s
year.
Tears sad yoars ho has campaigned
through 4vortloiar column of tho news-
maga lines for other, pooplo's q
USsiutU. Ho has so thoroughly
his owa toirStery, far tto moa
'W ' i ji
LATEST -SPORTS
BROOKLYN N L
BOSTON' A. u ...
'r f'
n
0
1 f.Vf
'r,
Weffer aad-Meyers; Shbrotttud,Cady.- Umpires, Connolly,
tho bat; O'Day, on-tho bases jQulgicyonUcft-ficld foui Hue; :
on ngnc-iioja xoui line,, v ,
behind
Dluecn,
DETAILS OFITODAY'S WORLD'S SERIES GAME
riRST INNINO Myers fanned. .Daubert out, Cndy to Hobby.
I tcngtd safe on Scott's poor throwto Hobby. Wheat filed to Hobby,
o runs, no h'its, one" error. ,';
Hooper out, Cutslmw To Daubert. ?nnvrln out, Mowrcyto Dau--bort.
Shorten filed to Wheat. No runs, no hits, no errors.
HURRICANE DEVASTATES ISL'AND OF ST. THOMAS
WASHINGTON, Oct. 12. American Cousul Polno at St. Thomas,
Danish West Indies, today reported to tho State Department that the
Isurricnno that swept those Islands Tuesday did 82,000,000 damage,
"aft two-thirds the population without sufficient food or clothing ana
destroyed one-third of the homes of tho natives. He appealed toi
$30,000 for immediate relief work. .
PRICES UP TWENTY-FIVE PER CENT SINCE WAR BEGAN
NEW YORK, Oct. 12. Commodity prices havo Increased twerity
Clvo percent since tho outbreak of tho war, nccordinp to Dun's Re
view, -which announced today that Dun's index number, tlio aggregate
quotation of a largo list of food, clothing, metal and other articles was
51S2,3S5tOctobcr 1,' against S120J740'Ausust 1, lOA,
Ot.
.f
..-C j,1 k,"M!f
.iW1 (j'iywM'ij:-'
BISHOP GREER BETTER; LEAVES FOR NEW YORK
' ' BT. X'OUIS, Oct. 12. Physicians attending Bislion Daniel li.
Greer, of tho Episcopal diocese, cf Now York, who was s'trlcken with
aeiut;J3 at tho Jefferson Hotel last night, said today his condition'
.a much improved and that they had permitted nlm to depart for
ma lionie;iri New ork. It is thought after a fow days' rest at homo
he will return to participate lu tho Episcopal conferpneeg.
PROSECUTORi ACCUSED OF MURDERt SEEKS RE-ELECTION
BT. JOSEPH, Mo.; Oct. 12. With his trial for wife murder set
for a week from today, County Proscutor Oscar McDanlel, out on bond,
Is putting in tho timo campaigning for re-election. Ho received a
jouslng reception at a political meeting last night. Whether Mc
Danlel shall bo suspended ns prosecutor until his trial Is over will
be decided by Jttdgo llynn today
SPEEDS -533 MILES TO BEDSIDE OF DYING WIFE
CHICAGO, Oct. 12. Jacob Dickinson, fonner 'secretary of War,
today reached the bedsido of his wife, who is believed to be dying,
citer a record-breaking run from Memphis, Teun., in which his spe
cial train covered tho 533 miles in fen hours and fifty xuiuuTes, four
hours less than tho regular running time.' 'Mrs. Dickinson was taken
ill suddenly. ' ' . '
TEN DAYS PASS FOR SCHOOLS WITHOUT PARALYSIS
Ten days, the full period of Incubation, havo passed sinco tho Dubllo and Drlvate
schools of Philadelphia have been'open without ono case of Infantile paralysis be
ing reportea amone the more than 200,000 children attending those institutions.
Amonj; children not In school fifty-seven new cases and cloven deaths, of which two
deaths and ono case were reported hut night, have been returned to the Dureau of
Health in that period.
ONLY 19 DEATHS AMONG 8000 WAR PATIENTS
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Oct. 12. Out of 8000 men cared for in three months
by the Harvard medical unit In Franco there wero only nineteen deaths. These
figures are given in a report Issued by tho Harvard Corporation, prepared by
Dr. Hugh Cabot, who headed the unit. .
BUCHAREST WANTS INDEMNITY FOR AIR RAIDS
DUCHAItEST, Oct 12. It la proposed to ldemnlfy sufferers by jecont. aerial
attacks out of confiscated enemy property,
CONNAUGHT AND FAMILY LEAVE FOR ENGLAND
OTTAWA, Oct. 12, Tho Duke of Connaught, Tetlrlns; Governor General of
Canada, with the Duchess it Connaught and Princess Patricia, left Ottawa to
return to Kngland. Ho became Govornor General In October, .1911, Tho Duke
of Devonshire has been announced us his successor.
66,000 WIDOWS, APPLY FOR, PENSION INCREASE
WASHINGTON, OcU12. The Pension Bureau has recvea M,90 applications
for lncroasos of widow's' pensions undr the law -psed by Coiyobs .at tho last
soootefl. Of the amplications 3,W) already have, boo aHowod umt aHowaswsos km
boiBff mado at the rato of about W a day. WMows ot ooldloffi ht tho Ctvit or
Mexican Wars who havo roachod tho ago of 70 yoaro aro oetWtlod to inerwM tram
$12 to 3 a month. '
BIfiHOl1 BERRY'S WJFB SBRIOUSlY ILL AFTW OPSRATJQK
Mrs. Joseph i'.Borrv. wife of -lahon Borry of tho Mttiu4m Bfteol CtoaroX
VTMHUiUT whim WMMMt -9lacfMl ,MMHtM M tho MHlk 0t M
NIGHT
EXTRA
t
FllIOB ONE OBNT
TRUE TAX LEVY
URGED TO GIVE
CITY $2,000,000
j
Assessors Fail to Fix
Proper Values, Says
Banker
INEQUALITIES CITED
IN MANY ESTIMATES '
Scheeme Advocated to Avoid
Necessity of Raising
Present Rato
SALE PRICE VS. RETURN
Cltu'a Figures Compared
With Those of Land Owners
PHILADELPHIA'S present real
-.ostate valuation
toUls; t M..51,704,000,OM
Ono-thlrd of this is
located south of Mar
ket street, between
Delaware and Schuyl
kill Rivers 500,000,000
Ono division, cover
ing ono square mile, is .
assessed at 350,000,009
Owners' estimate in
this area shows 57' '
per cent increase over
city valuation for tax
ing purposes, or 200,000,000
Assessment at. own- m
ers' holding price, ig- N
noring School Board
levy, would add to
city's tax receipts at
present rate 2,000,000
Such increase yearly
would more than pay
interest and sinking
fund charges on bond
issue exceeding 30,000,000
Property supposedly
stagnant, along river
river front, assessed at
$250,000, sells recently
for 425,000
Owner of another
property, assessed at
$40,000, withdraws
offer to sell to Govern
ment at own eptlfrsta of 80,000
Second prqp'fl;y - 4 ; :
wonted by Government
and assessed at ?10,-.
000, is. .offered at 460 -
per cent or ....,.,... 25,000
Another, sold for. nominal consid
eration, carries - m6rtgage 20. "pnv
cent abovo assessment. . -
' Small homes and residential pf6p
ertics show no such wide, variance
between owners' estimates and value
for assessment.
:
Vi'H
1
The suggestion comes from a publication,
which Is computed as one ot tho most con
aervatlve, level-headed and sound of Ha
kind, that If Philadelphia was only honest
with herself, that If properties In the city
were taxed on their actual values, or their
owners' valuations, Philadelphia would not
need to raise the tax rate as much aa It la
plannod.
This publication la the Advance, .pub
lished by the Corn Exchange National
Bank, and edited and largely written by
the president of that bank,,, .Charles 8. Cal
well. The Advance estimates that In one part
of the 2lty alone, the most valuable part,
the city Is forgoing tho collection of $:,0,00,
000 In taxes by underassessment.
It cites some cases In which the assess
ments are farfl?elow the figures at which
the owner holds the "properties, and thia
this comment Is made:
WHEHB VAT.UES AltB
"Philadelphia's real estate valuation, oa
which taxea wire collected during the pres
ent year, had a total of 1 1.704,000,000. Of '
this large sum, about 1(00,000,000, or, la
round numbers, one-third', represents six
teen square miles of property located south
of Market street and between tho Delaware"
and Bchuylklll Rivers. Out of these six
teen squaro nVRes of city territory, J80,
000,000 of the WttO.000,000 valuation con
centrates In less than one square rails of
the sixteen square miles forming the tract
In question. In other words, one squaro
mile Is assessed for $150,000,000 and fifteen "'
square miles for $200,000,000 on dfvUton
being assessed at the rato of $350,000,60
the square mile, the other at the rate oi.
$13,JB0.000 the. squaro mile. The two cases'
quoted where, out of the mouth of ,lho
owners of the property, an Increased valve w
of one hundred per cent is demanded aro
located In that section assessed at tbe'tower
figure.
"Now If the owners' estimate Is eorreet
and one of them says Uut he does not
care to sell his prssjterty even at the oao ''
hundred per oent Inoroaso In valuation
the w"hble tract ehouM'bo assesoed at iwVllZz:
Its present rure, aJ4tmr'$-m,m.6M to tfco' "
assessed valuatlonAsasi p UtMIqb iatfcooa
nfteen squaro mJBw 'tptvfmr, Mt:.Mt
acre of which IwEH' ItaK
tant from tho highly aasioe.ai-Hoa iim
"Wee thjs t0f,e0,000 of ew sss.es
meat posstble, K woH -ipt-jam',' at . tap
present Ux rate,for.ho oW' aWo,'.tMr
iog"" wholly tho tax lvM;ts,tfc sctiool
Iriiard, $:,5,'l' y ft irOM,tfen f.
aoioat to fir the tp-lJMifiio jiwal 4lNhU
fawd oawritoo oa owJtMfrfflffc' Of Wa,
tfaort thM. ortMllf.ryr. && AiMt
Um hoavtoot aiafctog twl ofaasgo of two ojj
am half par Mt"
Tko caaas tV writer la Yko Atvjus eta
14 oj ...
"A mi woo oWiat the oorrost mmt
TiHmrmr.imk4ttmMr
P VM M
,,. H
rkata-l-d
