FEDERALJOAD AID
The Expenditure of the Same Will be
Rigidly Supervised by Fed-
eral Road Authorities.
Intention is to Aid in the Construc-
tion of Connected Trunk Line
Roads.No Patch Wprk.
Anyone who imagined that the Federal
road authorities are not going to exer
cise a strict supervision over the ex
penditure of Federal aid to roads has
another guess coming. Mille Lacs
county expects a generous slice of
the Federal appropriation for the im
provement of State Road No. 1, which
runs through the center of the county
from the Sherburne to the Crow Wing
county line, and is an important link
in the Scenic Highway from the Twin
Cities to the International boundary.
At the ensuing election on the 7th of
next month, the voters of Mille Lacs
county will vote on the question of
issuing 20 year bonds to provide means
to meet the Federal aid. The \oters
can rest assured that under the joint
supervision of the State and Federal
road authorities the money will be
properly expended.
The following Washington dispatch
tells just what the Federal road au
thorities expect and will insist upon:
Washington, Oct. 6.Elaborate
plans to prevent the diversion into im
proper channels of any part of the
$75,000,000 which the Federal govern
ment is to spend in co-operation with
states on good roads within the next
five years have been made to Logan
Waller Page, director of the Office of
Public roads and Rural engineering
which will supervise the work.
The government is determined, of
ficials say, that there shall be no rep
etition of the lax methods and waste
which have characterized the building
of roads in many sections and that a
dollar's worth of road bed shall be con
structed for every dollar spent. Fur
ther, the Public Roads office is pre
paring to see to it that the roads for
which the go-, ernment money is spent
are places where the traffic demand is
the heaviest and not where politicians
or others desire them.
When the plans of a state for road
building, accompanied by a request for
Federal aid is received, they will be
fully investigated by government
agents, and if acceptable the state will
receive from the government its ap
portionment of the appropriation made
for the purpose. Under the terms of
the act the Federal government pays
the bill for one-half the cost and the
state pays the other half. More than
a score of states already have indi
cated their intention to ask for Fed
eral aid and two, California and Con
neticut, have filed formal applications.
Each project statement must be ac
companied by a sketch map showing
the location of the proposed project
and the mam contiguous transporta
tion features, and suitable samples of
material must be submitted whenever
requested.
Rights of way and damages to ad
joining property ha\e to be paid for
by the states, and the Federal govern
ment will not pay any part of the ex
pense of making surveys, plans, speci
fications or estimates prior to the be
ginning of construction.
The regulations require, too, that no
part of the Federal money be paid un
til it has been shown to the satisfac
tion of the secretary that adequate
means weie employed prior to the be
ginning of the construction to insure
economical and practical expenditure.
Prior to the acceptance of any bid,
sufficient opportunity must be given
the office of public roads to have a rep
resentative present if it so desires.
If a contract should be awarded to
any other than the lowest responsible
bidder, the government will not pay
more than its pro rata of the lowest
bid, unless it can be satisfactorily
shown that it was advantageous to the
work to accept the higher bid. Copies
of all contracts must be certified by
the respective state highway depart
ments and furnished the office of pub
lic Yoads, and specifications and plans
must be made a part of all contracts.
Certified vouchers showing the
amounts expended upon any project
and the amount claimed to be due
from the Federal government must be
submitted upon the completion of the
work, or, if the Secretary of Agricul
ture has determined to make payments
as construction progresses, at inter
vals of not less than one month.
The office of public roads will, as far
as is practicable, endeavor to have the
roads of one state connect with those
of another. The effort will be to have
the roads continuous in the states, and
patches here and patches there will
Minn. Historical Society*
not be constructed out of any of the
Federal money unless they should be
in localities where the traffic is heavy
and the demand great.
Gebert-Noeske.
The home of Mr. and Mrs. Albert
Noeske in Princeton town was the
scene of a pretty wedding last Thurs
day, when their daughter, Miss Ida M.,
was united in marriage to Mr. W. H.
Gebert, in the presence of about one
hundred and fifty guests. Rev. Eugene
Ahl of the Princeton German Lutheran
church performed the ceremony.
The bride was attired in a gown of
pink Georgette crepe, draped with
chiffon, and carried white and pink
roses and lilies of the valley. The
bridesmaids were the Misses Marie
Schmidt of Lester Prairie, and Jennie
Mattison of New Germany, cousins of
the bride. The first named wore a
dress of white satin and Georgette
crepe, and the latter one of white net
trimmed in pink. Both carried bo
quets of roses.
The groom was attended by his
brother, Mr. Albert Gebert, and Mr.
Chas. A. Noeske, cousin of the bride.
At the conclusion of the ceremony
a bounteous wedding dinner was par
taken of by the bridal party and
guests. The color scheme was pmk
and white, and maple boughs added
to the attractiveness of the interior of
the residence.
Mr. and Mrs. Gebert received nu
merous handsome and useful gifts.
The groom is a progressive young
farmer, and he and his bride have the
choicest wishes of a large circle of
friends. They will be at home at Mr.
Gebert's farm in Princeton town after
October 15.
Among those from out of town who
attended the ceremony were the fol
lowing: Mr. and Mrs. Aug. Farch
min and family and Wm. Dieas of
Howard Lake, Mr. and Mrs. Fred
Heinz and family of New Germany,
Mr. and Mrs. Aug. Quast of Perham,
Mrs. Minnie Schmidt and family of
Lester Prairie, and Edward, Charles,
Theodore, Louis, Dora and Lydia
Noeske of Delano.
Woodrow Wilson Club Organized.
As election draws near interest in
matters political becomes/ keener.
Tuesday evening over 80 enthusiastic
Wilson men from Princeton \illage
and vicinity met at the I. O. O. F. hall
and organized a Woodrow Wilson In
dependent Voters' League. The meet
ing was called to order by J. E. Yngve,
who briefly outlined the purpose of the
league, and an organization was per
fected by the election of the following
officers: G. A. Eaton, president F.
W. Manke, treasurer, and Tom Olsen,
secretary.
Ways and means were discussed to
ward increasing President Wilson's
vote, and the following gave their
reasons why they believed it would
be for the best interest of the United
States to have our present chief execu
tive returned to office: John Bishop,
C. H. Nelson, J. J. Skahen, E. Nelson,
J. E. Yngve, N. P. Olson, Wm. C. Roos,
J. F. Bockoven, Martin Belsem, John
E. Judkins, D. W. Sturdevant, F. C.
Cater, and Edw. Thoreson.
An effort will be made to secure an
outside speaker to address the people
of this vicinity before election, and the
league will have at least one more
meeting before the votes are counted.
Birthday Anniversary.
The children and grandchildren of
Mrs. Mary Newton gathered at her
home Friday night, Oct. 6, to help her
celebrate the 80th anniversary of her
birth. The party was in the form of
a Surprise and of course Mrs. Newton
was taken aback when she entered
the living room, which was prettily
decorated for the occasion with au
tumn leaves and boughs, with here and
there a jolly jack o' lantern blinking
and wishing Mrs. Newton many happy
returns of the day.
A sumptuous supper was served at
seven o'clock at which covers were set
for twenty. A beautiful birthday cake
of pink and white mad)e a pretty cen
terpiece.
Mrs. Newton was presented with a
purse as a gift from the party. Af
ter a pleasant evening the party de
parted wishing Mrs. Newton many
more happy anniversaries of her birth.
Bergh-Nyman.
H. L. Bergh, deputy in the office of
Register of Deeds, Osterberg, stole-a
march on his friends last week, when
he left Princeton, presumably on a
vacation. He returned Saturday ev
ening accompanied by a charming
bride. Mr. Bergh and Miss Hannah
Sophia Nyman were united in mar
riage at Sacred Heart on the 3rd inst.
Numerous Princeton friends of the
groom extend to him and his wife the
choicest of felicitations.
R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1916
COUNTY DADS MEET
Board of County Commissioners Met
at the Auditor's Office Tues-
day and Yesterday.
Bond Proposition for Road Improve-
ments t6 Be Submitted to
Voters Election Day.
The board of county commissioners
met in regular session at the office of
county auditor Tuesday, and remained
in session until yesterday noon. All
members were present and Chairman
Cater presided.
The report of the board of audit
was submitted to the board and same
was duly examined and approved.
The petition asking for the resur
vey of section 4, Page, came up for
final hearing and on motion the peti-|
tion was granted. R. S. Chapman
was appointed to make said survey
and his bond was fixed in the sum of i
Congressman Schall Speaks.
An enthusiastic audience that com
fortably filled the spacious Armory
greeted Congressman Thos. D. Schall
Monday evening, despite the fact that
the meeting had been advertised mere
ly by small posters. This is an evi
dence of the popularity of the blind
statesman in this vicinity. Those who
attended were amply repaid for doing
so, as the Tenth district solon deliv
ered an interesting and instructive
address.
Congressman Schall has no organ
ization behind him, and is not usually
met by a committee on arrangements.
He is making a single-handed fight
for re-election. Mr. J. J. Skahen, al
though not a progressive nor a repub
lican, kindly volunteered to introduce
the speaker in the absence of other
local republicans of forensic fame, and
the offer was thankfully accepted by
the speaker.
At the outset Mr. Schall stated that
he would ever hold Princeton in the
highest regard, because of the many
^friends he had in this vicinity, and he
especially felt grateful to the Union,
as two years ago it was the only
newspaper in the district urging that
he be elected.
The speaker then emphasized the
fact that the progressive and republi
can parties had amalgamated, ^and
stated that he would have filed as a
republican had not a ruling on, the
part of the secretary of state pre
vented him from so doing.
Congressman Schall stated that he
believed in a protective tariff that
would equalize the cost of production
at home and abroad, and a strong cen
tralized government as opposed to
state rights.
An inspiring plea for Americanism
and patriotism was then made by the
speaker, and this portion of the ad
dress was a flow of real eloquence.
In a ringing voice Congressman
Schall denounced as a he any state
ment to the effect that he had ever
uttered anything reflecting upon the
integrity or ability of Minnesota's
senior senator, sturdy Knute Nelson.
This should put a quietus to the ma
licious attempt to make Senator Nel
son an issue in this district.^
The blind statesman then riddled
with verbal buckshot the campaign
methods of his chief opponent, Lowell
E. Jepson. Mr. Jepson ignores entirely
Mr. SchalPs record in congress, al
though if that record is right there
is no reason under the sun why a
change should be made. He scored
heavily when he called attention to
the fact the republican nominee had
side-stepped a debate with him, and
pointed out how a debate would be the
surest way of making public the T, iews
of the two candidates.
The religious iragaboo has been in
jected- into the campaign by opponents Mr
Two petitions from Ole Esterson
and Louis Schedm were presented to
the board asking that their lands in
Borgholm be set off from school dis
trict No. 1, and attached to district
13. Date of hearing in the matter was
set for November 21.
Albert Peterson of Borgholm pre
sented a petition to the board asking
to have his lands set off from school
district 30 and-ottachcd to district 13.
November 21, 1916, was designated as
the day cf hearing in the matter.
A supplemental order was made di
viding an indebtedness of $146.34
among school districts 46, 47 and 48.
This indebtedness existed at a time
when these districts were a part of
district 25.
As four new school districtsNos.
49, 50, 51 ind 52have been organ
ized out of district 14, a supplemental
order was made dividing the October
apportionment among said districts
according: to the number of scholars
in each district.
On motion the depository bonds of
the Princeton State Bank and the Mil
aca State Bank were duly examined
and approved.
The county auditor was instructed
to advertise for a poor farm overseer Bnu\t eto his own with attorneys-in
for the coming year.
A resolution was adopted submit
ting the proposition of bonding the
county in the sum of $75,000, to be
expended in permanent road improve
ments, to the voters of Mille Lacs
county at the general election, Nov
ember 7.
The bond of R. S. Chapman as en
gineer to make a pre-survey for
proposed ditch No. 12 in Princeton
town was submitted to the board and
same was approved.
After acting on the usual grist of
bills the board adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on November 21.
SchaH, and unsavory methods
have been used. Catholics have been
told that he is affiliated with the A.
A movement, and Protestants have
been quietly informed that he is a
Catholic. As a matter of fact he is
neither a Catholic nor an A. P. A.
The speaker then explained his vote
on the McLemore resolution, and stat
ed that in voting against tabling same
he \oted with the president, who had
expressed a wish for a full, free and
fair discussion of the matter.
Congressman Schall then outlined
his life's history, and it is a story that
must profoundly impress those who
hear it a story of success achieved
despite almost insurmountable ob
stacles. On his own resources since
he was nine years old, Mr. Schall by
dint of hard work and self sacrifice
acquired a college education and later
graduated from the law department
of the university of Minnesota. A
gifted speaker and possessed of a keen
intellect, Mr. Schall was meeting with
deserved success in his profession,
when suddenly deprived of his sight.
A shock from an electric cigar lighter
deprived him of the use of his eyes.
It was enough to take the heart out of
most any man. But the grit and de
termination which had made his first
success possible, sustained him, and
aided by his bright and loyal little
wife, he resumed the practice of law,
possession, of all their faculties. Two
/years ago he became a candidate for
congress, and the people of the Tenth
district decided that their interests
would be ably looked after in congress
by "Tommy" Schall.
Right here it might be well to state
that Mr. Schall has a splendid record
as a lawmaker. He has tried to hon
estly represent his constituents, and
has justified the confidence reposed in
him.
Congressman Schall was given the
closest attention throughout Monday
evening, and frequent outbursts of
applause evidenced that the audience
was with him in his fight for re-elec
tion.
Sherburne County Fair.
The second annual fair of the Sher
burne County Agricultural society
was held at Elk River on Thursday,
Friday and Saturday of last week,
and it was well attended. The paid
admissions totaled 3,222, while the
total gate receipts were $628.
There was a creditable display of
exhibits, but the live stock showing
was exceptionally fine.
On Saturday the Milaca and Elk
River high school foot ball teams bat
tled for supremacy, and the represen
tatives of the Milaca institution of
learning won by a count of 6 to 0.
Princeton was well represented at
the fair on Friday and Saturday, and
those from here who attended pro
nounced it to be very good.
Elk River never looked more pros
perous than it does at present. But
itsi- rickety old depot is an eyesore to
the, people of the town. They certain
ly do need a new depot there.
Our Elk River friends have demon
strated! that they can have a success
ful fair, now they should go ahead and
secure permanent grounds and erect
Suitable buildings, and their fair will
grow in. popularity yearly.
Assessment Changes,
County Auditor Doane has received
the changes made by the state tax
commission on the personal property
assessment of Mille Lacs county.
There were few changes-only seven
all told, and they were all increases
of course.
Horses, mules and asses, three years
old or over, were increased 10 percent.
A 15 percent increase was made on
stallions, fine bred mares and race
horses. Cattle under one year old
were increased 20 percent. Sheep of
all ages were increased 20 percent.
Automobiles of all kinds were in
creased 10 percent.
SQUAREDEALFORALL
If the Bond Proposition Carries All
Sections of the County Will
Be Benefited Alike.
It is Estimated That $147,000 Will
Be Available for Permanent
Road Improvements.
After an all night session the board
of county commissioners arrived at
an amicable understanding with refer
ence to the state roads upon which
permanent improvements should be
made during the year 1917, that is,
provided the proposition to bond the
county carries at the ensuing general
election.
Surely the intelligent Voters of Mille
Lacs county will embrace the oppor
tunity to secure a system of good
roads throughout the county when 50
percent of the cost will be defrayed
by the State and Federal governments.
It may be a long time in the future
before a like opportunity will offer.
It was estimated that the total
amount available for permanent road
improvements next year would exceed
$147,000 to be derived from the fol
lowing sources: Federal aid, $50,000
State aid, exclusive of maintenance,
$12,800(We are of the opinion that
this estimate is too low by $3,200)
county road and budge fund, exclusive
of maintenance, 59,200 bond issue
$75,000.
It was agreed and determined by
the board that if the above amount was
available it should be distributed as
follows: For state roads_Nos. 1 and 6,
from Princeton village to the north
line of town of Dailey, $75,000 for
state roads Nos. 1 and 6, from north
line of town of Dailey to Mille Lacs
lake, $25,000, for other state roads,
$15,000 for that part of state road
No. 3 in the town of Milaca, $3,000 for
that part of State Road No. 3 in the
town of Borgholm, $7,000 for that
part of State Road No. 5 in the town
of Greenbush, $6,000 for that part of
State Road No. 5 in the town of Milo,
$6,000 for that part of State Road
No. 4 in the town of Greenbush, $4,-
000 for that part of State Road No.
4 in tEe fown of Princeton, $6,000.
The Federal aid must be met dollar
for dollar, and the only possible way
of meeting it is by a bond issue.
The Federal aid would be expended on
State Roads Nos. 1 and 6, running
north and south through the center
of the county from the Sherburne
county line to Mille Lacs lake.
Once that road is permanently im
proved and hard-surfaced it can be
properly maintained at a small cost,
and the large sums that are being
annually expended on it can be
used in improving other roadstown
and county. This road will have to
be permanently improved sooner or
later, and now is the golden oppor
tunity to improve it when the Federal
government will pay half of the cost.
Moreover, the improvements on this
road, if made as contemplated, will be
under the strict supervision of Fed
eral and State officials, and full value
will be received for every dollar ex
pended.
The amounts allotted to the other
roads are amply sufficient to properly
grade, drain and hard-surfoce every
mile of them, save possibly a few
miles in the north end of the county
that can be cared for later.
If the program as mapped out goes
through it means good hard-sur
faced roads from Princeton to Mille
Lacs lake and the Aitkin county line,
from the west line of Greenbush
through Princeton to the Isanti coun
ty line, from the Greenbush town
house through Freer to Foreston,
from the Benton county line through
Foreston and Milaca to the Kanabec
county line, and it also means perma
nent good roads for the lake country.
And we reiterate that almost half
the cost of these extensive and up
building improvements will be de
frayed by the State and Nation.
It should also be borne in mind that
once the state roads have been perma
nently improved the state and coun
ty road money can be utilized in im
proving town and county roads, save
what is necessary for the proper
maintenance of State roads.
"Mike" Writes.
The same old routine featured the
past weekdrill, hike, eat and sleep
consequently there is not much of in
terest to write of.
There has been no rain for over two
weeks and dust lies six inches deep on
the road, making marching very dis
agreeable. We have decided that a
little mud is better than dust. We
had a regular Minnesota fall day last
Friday with a nice cool breeza and the
MlMNEcV-' W 3
ISTOR C,
OCIETY
aw.
VOLUME XL. NO. 43^
sun under a cloud most of the time.
Advantage was taken of the weather
and we were treated to a 15-mile hike
carrying full equipment. The entire
distance was covered in about three
hours and a half, which is an extreme
ly fast pace, and not a man fell out.
We are getting hard boiled all right.
A review was held last week in
honor of General Funston in which
about 13,000 men and hundreds of
horses and mules took part. It was
stated in one of the papers that after
the review, the General would pick out
ten regiments to be sent home, but we
have heard nothing of it since.
A Battery, which has been encamped
at Fort Snelling, arrived this morning
to take the place of the University
Battery, which was sent home. They
seem to be tickled to have finally
been sent down here.
Corporal Albert I. Nelson has been
promoted to Sergeant and George Sol
berg to Corporal. MIKE.
Mrs. Julius Reissig.
Mrs. Julius Reissig, an esteemed
resident of Princeton tpwn, joined the
great majority last Friday. She had
been afflicted with rheumatism six
years, but dropsy and liver trouble
were the immediate causes of death.
Deceased, whose maiden name was
Wilhelmine Wuestrich, was born Aug
ust 19, 1843, near the city of Dresden,
Germany. She was united in mar
riage to Mr. Julius Reissig, who sur
vives her, in February of 1868. Mr.
and Mrs. Reissig came to the United
States in 1885, and located at Winona,
this state, where they resided until
the fall of 1897, when they moved to
Princeton township and settled on un
improved land. Mrs. Reissig did her
part in making a home.
Eight children were born to Mr. and
Mrs. Reissig, two of whom are living
Paul and Mrs. Wm. Dennemann,
both of Princeton.
Funeral services were conducted
Sunday afternoon by Rev. C. Larson,
and interment was in Oak Knoll cem
etery.
Mrs. Reissig was a good neighbor
and a loving wife and mother.
The husband and children take this
means of expressing their heartfelt
thanks to all who tendered sympathy
and aid to them during their recent bt
reavement.
Former Princeton Resident Dead.
Mrs. Dr. Frank Hall, a former resi
dent of this place, died at her home
in Faribault last Sunday, and the re
mains were interred at Elk River on
Tuesday.
Mrs. Hall, whose maiden name was
McClellan, resided in Princeton for
many years. She was married to Wm.
B. Cilley here. Mr. Cilley died at
Stillwater, where he was employed in
the state prison, about 25 years ago.
Later Mrs. Cilley married Dr. Frank
Hall. A son, Rex, resulted from the
first marriage, and a daughter, Pearl,
from the second. Mrs. Hall was op
erated on at the Mayos' hospital for
cancer of the stomach last April, but
gained no relief until death put an
end to her sufferings. Her son, Rex,
whose home is in Washington, came
east and remained with her from the
time of the operation until her death.
She is survived by her husband and
two children, one sister, Mrs. Charles
Whcaton, of Elk River also thrse
brothers, R. F. McClellan of Los
Angeles, and Frank and Harry of
Washington.
Mrs. Hall had many friends in
Princeton and vicinity, who knew her
from girlhood, and they will regret to
learn of her death.
New Districts Organize.
School district 14, Borgholm, was re
cently divided into five districts, viz:
14, 49, 50, 51 and 52. Hereunder ap
pears a list of officers of the districts:
FourteenNoah Johnson, chairman
Peter A. Anderson, clerk, and E. T.
Chandler, treasurer. $
v'
Forty-nineOtto Stadig, chairman
Pter A. Anderson, clerk, and Julius
Johnson, treasurer.
FiftyFrank Telander, chairman
Carl Eckdall, clerk, and Axel Kasper
son, treasurer.
Fifty-oneA. P. Lindstrom, chair
man Geo. Billings, clerk, and Herman
Kasperson, treasurer.
Fifly-two"John Hedin, chairman
A. Crumb, clerk and Elick Wesjtling,
treasurer.
Adjudged Insane.
John S. Bishop of Milaca was ad
judged insane before Judge Sanford's
court Tuesday afternoon, and commit
ted to the state detention hospital at
Fergus Falls. The examining phy
sicians were Dr. H. C. Cooney and Dr.
T. L. Armitage. The patient was
taken to Fergus Falls the same day
by Sheriff Shockley and his deputy,
Tom Yotten.
