W " " - . _ : -r-pw- .; .^w>,. ^
? \
^StZi\ W4^ I Vj from Presto Home
ssisis2>"' Oi/IiP IPuPJiTTnT 2STS11 ^ """""""Hocr"
report on Wc 1, | , I'V^ VA' l^/VA A' W'JV "
1 I y W I . 7^1 f / Sworn Wrt Circulation. Month of September.
^ 1?1?. Dally A \ era ire. 74.8201 Sunday. 56.668.
~Xo. 29,469. ~~ WASHINGTON, d. C., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1916.?TWENTY-TWO PAGES. * ONE CENtT
ASKS DRASTIC LAW |
ON FIREARMS SALES;
Maj. Pullman Urges New Regulation
Today in His Annual
Report.
*
WOULD HELP THE POLICE
In the prevention of crime in the District
of Columbia nothing will help the
police department more than the enactment
by Congress of a law placing a further
restriction on the sale of firearms
ftr.ci dangerous weapons, ucl-wico
Pullman, superintendent of police, in his j
annual report and estimates for 191$, to :
tiie Commissioners today. j
It is set fortli in the report that many j
crimes result from persons purchasing j
revolvers and shooting others while still
in a fit of passion.
The suggestion is made in the report
that a law which would make it
necessary for every person to make
written application to a dealer for a
purchase of a firearm, and that de- j
livery not be made for ten days to
? thirty days, giving the police department
time to inquire into the character
of the prospective purchaser and giving
time for the murderer to lose his
bit of passion if he wishes to obtain the
revolver to harm any one, instead of for
the protection of his home.
The report says:
"A recent picture of every person purs
chasing a firearm or other weapon should
be furnished the police department, and
legitimate owners of revolvers would not ,
be harmed if a step further in the law J
were taken and the name of every person j '
owning a firearm in the District of Co-1
lumbia were registered, along with the!
name and number of the weapon," ti e;
report states. "Even such a law would
be far less drastic than the Sullivan law, I
which is operative in New York.*' 1:
More Arrests Last Year.
During the last fiscal year there has j
been an increase in the number of per- j
sons arrested. One thousand nine hundred
and sixty-nine cases were made for
felonies or serious crimes as compared
vrith 1.699 in 1917.. There were twenty- j
four murders committed. For twenty- j
three of these erimes arrests were made.
In the other case, an arrest was male,
but the grand jury did not consider the j
evidence sufficient. The total number of I
arrests for all offenses was 39,277 against j
37.219 in 1915.
An encouraging: increase in the per- ;
centage of convictions is recorded, j
showing, according to the report, that ;
the police are using greater care in eel- :
ting evidence and are not making arrests
except when they have the best informs- J
tion that the laws have been violated. !
Property to the value of $.736,067.34 j
was reported . stolen. lost or mislaid.!
and of this amount $204,$46.97 was re- !
covered. Property to fhe value of!
($3,410.34, which had be-n stolen in J
other jurisdictions, was also recovered.
A3 to the enforcement of the eram- j
bling law in-the District, Ala j. Pullman <
states. the work against the most dis- j
honest forms of gambling, handbook j
making, has been somewhat retarded i
by the delay in the presentation of
cases in court. In connection with the I
Department of Justice sixty-seven ar- j
rests were made of handbook makers.\
it is stated, in only fifteen cases has
evidence been presented to the grand
jury and indictments secured.
Work of the Vice Squad.
Strict attention to the enforcement
of the laws regulating vice were given,
it is stated, and the work formerly
covered by the vice squad has been i
broadened in its scope and put in !
charge of a lieutenant. In the vice in- ]
vestigations there were 363 arrested, j
who were convicted and lined or who
forfeited collateral. Sixty-four persons ;
were held for the grand jury in similar '
cases.
There were 1 1,046 arrests in traffic j
violations, which is an increase of 3.- j
* 431 over 1915. This increase is de- !
clared to be due to the increase in the j
number of motor vehicles and to the j
fact that the police; department had its I
motor cycle equipment increased trom i
eight to eighteen machines.
The annual licensing of automobiles I
is urged in the report. It is declared j
that many of the tags given three to
ten years ego are used illegally, as |
those cars are out of commission for |
which the tags were granted. For the j
benefit f)f the automobile owners <>{ ;
both Maryland and the District Maj. ;
Pullman ..ays it is hoped that reciprocal J
relations, in so far as licenses are con- t
cerned, will soon be established.
MONEY MAKING COSTS MOKE.
General Increase in Prices of Material
TJsed in Paper Currency.
The incfeasei! '.ost of printing the paper :
currency of the nation it- commented (
upon by Director Joseph K. Ralph, in his :
annual report. As compared with the
same cost of production in the past fiscal j
year there has been an increased ex- j
penee of $220.110.1'.', equivalent to 4." 16
per cent.
The general increase it; prices of materials.
especially dry colors, is rerleei ed
in th?- increased cost rales. and amounted I
to $68,000. There were in the year hve
? and one-half more non-worki.ig uay?
with pay than last year. These r-.-st the i
bureau nearly $60,0<>0.
To Allow Navy Yard to Bid.
The Mare Island navy yard will be I
permitted to bid tor construction of ; r
least one of the twenty new destroy > rn
for which bids will be opened October .
-5. The yard already in engaged in
building a battleship, a destroyer, and
has other construction work, b it the
commandant asked for an opportunity
to bid for an additional destroyer.
Supreme Court Admits Woman.
Jenny B. Geasner. a woman attorney
of New Orleans, today wis admitted to
practice before the Supreme Court of
the United States.
Cartoon Resemblance
Blamed for a Suicide
CHISHOLM, Minn., October if.?
Because friends say he believed
J the "funny" sections of Sunday
| newspaper were making him a
| ?ubje ' of ridicule and that persons
were deriving iiim because of
I " re^emoiance to a fun;i;v page
l character, Charles Mariia, twentylive
years old. a miner, unmarried.
committed suicide toduv by
blowing hiruself up with dynamite.
PRESIDENT SPEAKS
AT TWO MEETINGS
Arrives at Indianapolis on His
Second Middle Western
. Trip of Campaign.
FARMERS HEAR ONE TALK;
INDIANAPOLIS, October 1-.?On his j
second middle western trip of the cam- i
paign, President Wilson came to In- I
uianapolis today to speak to farmers i
and good roads advocates. lie arrived i
here at 11:30 o'clock, facing a strenu- .
ous program, which promised to keep j
him busy every minute until his dc- j
parture at 5:45 o'clock this afternoon, j
At the railroad station and along the
streets he was greeted by cheering j i
The reception to the President was |
arranged by a non-partisan committee. !
Following a lunch at a hotel he reviewed
an automobile parade, and as he p
passed through the streets stood and f
bowed frequently to the crowds.
Many of the buildings along the route ;
of the parade were decorated with ,
American flags, and the windows were
packed with people. A crowd was i
jammed in front of the hotel where
the President had lunch with Gov. Ralston
of Indiana and a group of guests.
Speeches at Fair Grounds.
The first s?*t speech by the President
was arranged to be delivered before a
good roads meeting at the state fair I
grounds following the automobile parade.
Another speech to a group of farmers
was to follow almost immediately. At ;
both meetings the President planned to
speak extemporaneously. After the second
speech he was to hurry to his private
car to'begin his trip back to Long
Branch. N. J. .
The President was cheered, by large
crowds this morning at several towns
in Ohio and Indiana on the way here.
He appeared first at Dayton. Ohio.
When urged to speak at Richmond, ,
lnd.. he said:
"I am not making speeches, but it is
mighty fine to see you. It makes my ,
heart warm to have you. come out and ?
greet me this way." <
Seeing that most of the crowd were ?
workingmen, Mr. Wilson added: "I am j
a hard-working man myself." I
Traiii Backs Into Crowd. 1
The train to which the President's i
car was attached backed into a crowd
at Richmond and several persons nearly
were caught under the President's {
car.
John Q. Slyc, a secret service man,
pulled one woman out of the way just
in time.
At Greenfield, Ind., a band came hurryinjr
down a street just as the President's
train pulled out. It did not have '
time to play. Mr. Wilson shook hands j
with people as rapidly as possible and {
waved to them as the train left. )
The President made the trip on a \
pri\*ate car attached to a regular train, j
With him were Mrs. Wilson, Secretary ;
Tumulty and Dr. Gary T. Grayson, the <
White House physician.
BOTH SIDES CLAIM CHECK i
FDR EHEMY ATTACKS
: j
Lull Again Sets in After Terrific
Fighting in Ssmtre
Battle.
ji
LONDON. October 12.?A lull again j
seems to have set in today along the J
Somme front, in northern France, fol- .
lowing the heavy fighting of the last j
day or two. I
North of Courcelette the Germans at- j
tempted an attack, but were caught i
on th< ir parapets by British barrage j
and stopped. British guns also d.ealt I
effectively with bodies of hostile in- }
fantry assembling in the rear of the)
enemy lines. The prisoners reported j
in the past twenty-four hours from the j
forty-five men.
Several Aeros Are Lost.
Ycstf rciay British aeroplanes de- j
stroycd by bombing two enemy bat- j
tcry positions and damaged many j
others. They penetrated wfell behind |
the enemy's front and bombed railroad j
stations, trains and billets with good !
effect. There was much lighting in !
the air. and in one case two British !
machines engaged seven hostile aeroplanes
and drove them down or dispersed
them. One of these enemy machines
was seen to be destroyed; two
others were severely damaged. Four
British machines are missing.
All attacks made yesterday by the
Anglo-French forces against the German
positions on the Soram? front, according
to today's German official
slnti-iiii'iil u-??rA remitted.
Germans Attack Violently.
The ?; rmnnK yesterday launched two ;
violent attacks on new French i>o&1 - j
tions in <*hauln?.s wood, but Paris ?.lr-- |
lares both v.-ere repulsed after a sharp j
' hand-to-r:ai:d ?tru?jcle. f?renado at- ;
tn? i k at tin- edge of St. Pierre \nasi i
wood also v.? r? repulsed by the French. 1
COMMISSION SEEKS OFFICES.
Federal Trades Board Allowed $15,- j
000 for This Purpose.
! Efforts are beina made bv tin* fe?i*r.t !
| trade commission to find new quarters.
Congress allowed this new branch of
I the government service $15,000 with
| which to rent offices, but some diffi:
culties have been found in getting the
I right place for the amount. Several
buildings in the downtown section, in ;
the vicinity of F and 13Lit streets, are j
being considered, it was declared at the j
commission's offices today.
The bureau now is located on the !
ninth floor of the Commerce building, i
J arid the Department of Commerce otti- i
j cials have for some time been pushing!
j the federal trade commission to find a
j place. The Commerce Department of- j
! flees already are badly crowded, and
j the space is badly needed to provide
j proper working places for the clerks.
ITke federal trade commission also is
crowded, and many clerks are congested
in very small rooms.
itfliiftfrifM.. .
DOES NOT BELIEVE j
KINGSTONIAK SANKj
Rear Admiral Gleaves Thinks
It Was Not Even Attacked
by Germans.
MISTAKEN FOR KNUDSEN
Rear Admiral Gleaves, commanding the
Atlantic destroyer flotilla, reported toaay j
liis personal belief that no steamer Kings-w
ton or Kingstonian was sunk by the German
submarine during its operations off J
Nantucket lightship. j
After several days of search the de- i
stroyer force has found no evidence
that a ship of that name was in the
vicinity, and if Admiral Gleaves' theory
is correct only five ships were sunk. Admiral
Gleaves* report follows:
"Destroyers continued the search until
midnight Tuesday from Mont&uk Point
to the Nantucket lightship. It is my
personal belief that all survivors have
been accounted for and that thero was no
steamer Kingston or Kingstonian, the
name Knudsen having been understood
by hail to be Kingston. Destroyers have
returned and search discontinued."
May Be Mistaken for Knudsen.
The captain of one of the sunken
ohin? snifl that he had hailed a passing
vessel, which was later destroyed, and
understood her name to have been
given as Kingston. The Knudsen was
destroyed by the submarine in the same
vicinity.
The Navy Department today received
i. report fiom Rear Admiral Knight, at
Newport, giving detailed accounts from
the commanders of four of the steamers
sunk by a German submarine off
the New England coast. Navy officials
refused to comment upon its contents\
md it will be transmitted to Secretary
Lansing for study in connection with
the determination of the policy of the
I'nited States. The report avus written
by Admiral Knight's aid. who took
statements from the commanders of
the sunken vess' Is.
Government officials today Avere ponJering
the question of whether the United
States shall recognize the raid of the
German war submarine on allied
shipping off Nantucket last Sunday as
legal. The problem was considered of
?reat importance, not only in its gelation
:o that particular raid, but becausfe of the
probability that it will establish a preceient
affecting possible future submarine
forays of similar nature.
Consider Liability for Indemnity.
JIuch forethought was being given to !
potential developments, such as that Ger- j
man undersea boats might be able to ex- j
lend their operations to such an extent j
is to effect practically a blockade of j
American ports, or that the allied powers
might decide to press harder their j
laims that entry of American ports be j
lenled all underwater craft of belliger-1
mt?. Resting on determination of thl
lation's attitude toward the work of the j
LJ-53 is the matter of asking indemnity >
for American cargoes lost with the sunken
ships. Only if the ships were sunk illegally
may claims be entered.
The Navy Department is making efforts
to expedite the report of Rear Admiral
Knight on naval phases of the
re Id, and the State Department is particularly
interested in the evidence to
oe presented concerning the submarines
arrangements for saving crews j
and passengers of ships. That infor- :
mat ion is being gathered from corn- i
manderH of the United States destroy- j
ers which picked up boats from the '
victim vessels.
Secretary Daniels has denied the published
report that he had nfor -?ati j
hat the British steamer Stephano was:
fired on bv the German submarine U-53 j
before all the passengers had Wt the
vessel. "The Navj Department," said !
the Secretary, "has not received any indication
in any form that passengers !
and crew were not all in lifeboats when i
the Stephano was torpedoed."
U. S. Navy Patrolling Coast,
Captain of Cuban Line Says,
Holding Steamships in Port
NEW YORK, October !2.?Indications !
that an American naval patrol has been ,
placed in duty along the north Atlantic
coast was given today when Capt. Mc- j
Donald of the steamship Munamar, in
from Cuban ports, reported that off the
Jersey coast about fi o'clock this morning
an American destroyer dashed up through
the mists and circled hi3 ship several
times. Capt. McDonald said that he broke
out the national colors and the destroyer
immediately headed northeast, Foon disappearing.
Eight or'more steamships flying the)
flags of the entente allies were this
morning awaiting advices from agents!
of those governments us to whether it!
is now safe to leave this port ror r.u-|
rope, in view of the possible danger!
from the German submarine ('-53.
Among them were the White Star
line steamer Adriatic, the Atlantic
Transport line steamer Minnehaha and
the Cunard line steamer Pannonia.
No information of further activities
of the i:-53 had been received here
early today. Shipping men are inclined
to believe she is on the way to her
base, probably Helgoland.
Shipping circles hear that Aaniiral
Montague Browning, in command of
the British Meet at Halifax, has/ issued
orders detaining British merchant vessels
now in American ports until such
a time as it was deemed safe, for them ,
to depart.
While no imir: ... s..epri are in contemplation
for the actual establishment
of a naval neutiality patrol along the
Atlantic coast as a result of the German
submarine raid, the Navy Department
has completed a definite plan to
be put Into operation ir me campaign
continues.
cholepxgerms dropped
by hostile aeros, claim
}'i;TKO? JKAD, October 11', via JjO ndon,
.'5:03 p.m.?The following official
announcement was made here today:
"In Dobrudja an enemy air squadron
dropped bombs on Constanza (the principal
Rumanian Black sea port) and
also poisoned sweets and garlic hifected
with cholera bacilli."
Capt. Long to U. S. S. Connecticut.
("apt. A. T. Long, supervisor of naval
auxiliaries at Norfolk, Va., was assigned
by the Navy Department today to
command the battleship Connecticut of
the Atlantic fleet, in place of Capt. E.
II. Durell, who is transferred to the
battleship Minnesota, relieving C. B.
Morgan, assigned to the Naval War
College-at Newport. Capt. Dong is now
|at the Norfolk navy yard, headquarters
'of the m?? fi?i of naval districts.
dati&iii* j
V *
^ A, -V =*.
>>z J
STREETSAIBAYONNE I
RESEMBLE ARMED CAMP
Thousands of Strikers Maintain a
"Bead Line" Across Approaches I
to Standard Oil Plants.
BAYONNE, N. J., October 12.?The |
streets approaching- the Constable Hook ;
section of this city resembled today an !
armed camp. Thousands of strikers i <
from the plants of the Standard Oil ;
Company, Tidewater Oil Company, j
Vacuum Oil Company, Pacific Coast j
Borax Company and the General Chern- j
ical Company maintained a "dead line" r
across the approaches to those plants, i
Inside this line between the strikers j }
and the oil plants nearly 100 policemen j ,.
were stationed in a fire engine house j j
guarding the plants from attack, while j
a few other policemen and seventy-five { ,
deputy sheriffs held possession of the i
main police headquarters. j
There were no signs of a cessation of : .
the labor war which caused the clash | c
which Miss Sohpia Torack, a woman i (
spectator, was shot and: killed ami fif- j
teen or twenty strikers were wounded. ; f
This fight took place, according to the i
police, when the strikers interfered ' )
?vitn the firemen attempting to fight a J '
olaze and cut the hose. I 1
See No Need for Militia.
Despite the disorder which prevailed all
yesterday with mobs attacking railroad \
station and police headquarters, the city !
and state authorities decided there was ;
no need of calling out the National
Guard.
About 12.000 men have quit work in j
various plants at Constable Hook, and ,
virtually have besieged the police in ;
headquarters and fire station.
The police were able to move about the I
city only in groups, generally making '
sallies in automobiles and returning im- i
mediately to suppress minor outbreaks. I
MAD KING OF BAVARIA !i
SUCCUMBS SUDDENLY I'
CONDoX, August 12.? Former King:
Otto of Bavaria, who has been insane
for many years, lias died suddenly, according
to a Copenhagen dispatch to
the Exchange Telegraph Company,
quoting a Berlin official announcement.
The mad king resided ul Fuorstenrifcd
Castle, near Munich, w he: -- he has
been confined since 187.'J.
King Otto was born on April 27. 184*, j
and succeeded his brother, Kudwig 11, j
in lSMd. I.mlwig II also was insane,
and drowned himself in Starnborg |
lake. King Otto was deposed on November
5. Ibi::. and was succeeded
by the present monarch, Ludwig 111,
formerly regent.
ALL CHARGED WITH MURDER.
Luna County Grand Jury Indicts'
! Mexicans for Columbus Raid. \*
DEM1NG. X. M.. October 12.? Nine- j
teen Mexicans held by army authorities
! at Colonia Dublan for alleged connec- j
J lion with the Villa raid on Columbus, j
N. M., March, have been indicted by
he Luna county grand jury, it became i
known today. All are charged with j
murder.
Because officers with the punitive
expedition cannot absent themselves to
attend court now, the prisoners will not
I be tried at this term, but held at Held
headquarters.
Seven Mexicans already haVe been
convicted here on similar charges, six
of them being hanged and the sentence
of one commuted by Gov. McDonald to
life imprisonment.
. V -
I
COLUMBUS DAY.
MP Pi AVP.PnHNIK
ViUIlL I LniUilUUllLPU
IN DISTRICT URGED!
? i
attendance at Recreation
Parks Last Year More Than
a Million, Report Says.
SWIMMING POOLS SOUGHT
More than a million visits by chilIren
were made to the Washington
daygrounds last year, with a. daily
iverage of 5,020, and there is need for
nore playgrounds and for cither a
swimming or wading poci arid inov- '
ng pictures at each play ground.
These facts were emphasized in the
ifth annual report of the department
>f playgrounds, submitted to the Comnissioners
today. The report says
hat the playground is to be made a
iource of physical, moral and mental
jenefit to children of the District of
Columbia.
The attendance at the playgrounds
rom July 1, 19ir>, to June 80, 1916. was
1,1104,174, for a daily average of 3,0-".
vith the Montessori and Zoological
'ark grounds having keen discontinxed
after the summer of 1915.
Additional Playgrounds Urged.
The report recommends that addiional
playgrounds be made and that
very playground have either a pwimning
pool or a wading pool. The wider
ise of the school plan, in connection
vith the playground activities, is also
ncouraged. It is urged that the
grounds be lighted and open evenings
Lud that moving picture apparatus bo
jurchased for all lighted grounds.
The department, asks thai the shops
>f the elementary schools be open in J
jurnme.r vacation jo the children at-*
ending the playground nearby may J
lave elementary woodwork and I
imple carpentry. It is suggested the
.irit.tr ,.t' i.rnkpn furnih.r,. , , .1
vould he good occupational play The
school kitchens ate also urged to be
cept open at that time to grivt; cooking
essons to the children.
"liy providing recrerui?>u in the open
-ir, free from conditions which prejulice
physical development, the playgrounds
perform the functions of a
sanitorium without the cost and in a
arge measure obviate the necessity for
lospituls." the report sets forth.
Also Teaches Citizenship.
"By instilling into the child the priri iples
of fair play, honesty, self-con:
rol and mutual responsibility, the
vlayground tesrhes the elements of
itizenship. It gives instruction in inlustrial
work and thus becomes a spe ialized
school w itliout the expense of
me and without Its restrictions on in
ii vidua i enterprise.
"The achievements of the Playground
lepartment cannot ho measured by rule
,f thumb. Children may be counted
uul the number of track and tie id
?ames statistically compiled, but the
jffect of recreation centers on character,
though known to be considerable,
. annot be measured with mathematcal
accuracy."
America to Be Taught
to Shoot
i Congressional appropriation
of 5300,000 to be used in promotion
of rifle . practice
throughout the cquntry; t
ranges, targets and target mate- '
rials to be free to civilians. j
Read this article in The Sunday
Star. ;
i _J 1
$
j
^ ' |
TOTAKESTEPS TO TRAIN
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS |
Presidents of Nineteen Colleges and j
Universities to Confer With i'
Military Heads Here. j i
1,
i?
Presidents of nineteen colleges and J f
universities have been called in con- Jr
ference by the War .Department pre- ! ?
paratory to establishment of system- I ?
atic methods for training reserve offi- ^
cers for the United States army inj^
those institutions. They will meet at j t
the Army War College here Tuesday. j r
October 17, for discussion with the Js.
army general staff of military courses j ^
to be organized in institutions desir- j
ing to take advantage of provisions of j 1
the army reorganization law.
It. has been estimated that the army.'
must maintain a corps of 50,000 par-1 \
tially trained junior officers to facili- j
tato organization ??f an adequate military
force should the nation have war
with a power capable of attempting!
invasion. The main source of supply 1
for these officers would be institutions
with approved military courses where
military training under army officers is 1
part of a student's wt>rk.
National Guard organizations com-!
posed entirely of college students have !
been mustered out of the federal serv- i
ice so those men may compose the first I
increment of reserve officers to be i
drawn under the new plan.
Those Who Are Expected.
Officials expected to attend the con- I
ference include Dr. J. E. Raycroft, J
Princeton; A. Lawrence Lowell, Har- I
vitrd; Arthur T. lladley, Yale; John H. j '
Finley. University .State of New York; ! j
Ii. B. Hutchins, University of Michigan; I '
George H. Denny, University of Ala- j
bama; E. W. Nicholas, Virginia Military j
Institut: ; Benjamin J. Wheeler, Uni- !
versity of California; J. G. Sehurman, j
Cornell University; Edmund J. James,
University of Illinois; J. H. Kirkland.
Vanderbilt University: A. C. Hum- <
phreys. Stevens Institute of Technol- j 1
ogy; 11. A. Garfield, Williams College; t ?
Rev. Kdward A. Pace, Catholic Univer- i <
sitv of America; Henry S. Drinker, Le- ' (
high University; W. O. Thompson, Ohio ! s
Stut?- University: Brown Ayres, Uni- 1
versity of Tennessee; W. M. Riggs, ( (
Clemson Agricultural College, South ; |
Carolina; George E. Vincent. University ; ,
of Minnesota. ;
Dr. Granville Clark. J. Lloyd Derby j j
and DeLancey K. Jay. officials <>f the' t
Military Training Camps Association,
of the United Stales, also \\ ill attend. i t
TEAINS COLLIDE IN FOG. =
Two Killed and Sixteen Injured in *
Accident on Western Maryland. J
Special Dispatch to The Star. ^
CUMBERLAND, Aid., October 12.?Two !
men were killed and sixteen others in- !
jureu when a Western Maryland excursion 1
train enroule to Hagerstown ran head on <_
Into the "Labor Train" in the Knobmount s
yards this morning. The dead are: Benjamin
Fairchild of Cumberland, conductor j i
on the labor train; Carl H. Hinkle of s
Cumberland, brakeman on the labor train. 1
Edward Mercer and John M. Arnstedo, I e
both of Piedmont, W. Va., were rushed to d
ihe hospital, while the other fourteen in- d
jured, after receiving first aid treatment n
on the scene, were moved to their homes
in ambulances. Mercer is expected to die. |
Trainmen say the fog was unusually
heavy and the engineer of the excursion ;
train saw the labor train, but was too late j f
to stop. j <j
Eev. Dr. Greer Stricken. j r
ST. T?Oi:i3, Mo.. October 12.?lit. ilev. ! ;
David H. Greer of New York was j L
stricken yesterday with neuritis, while 1
in attendance upon the general con- ; j,
vention of tlie Protestant Episcopal
iihurch. His condition was considered I:
improved today, attending physicians s
announced. It was said he probably v
will be able to attend the convention v
iomorrow. , t
RUMANIANS RETIRE I
ON WHOLE FRONT
Second Army Driven Back to ;
Frontier Positions in Trany
sylvania by Teutons. \
SERBS PIERCE BULGAR LINE
LONDON". October 12.?Teuton troops,
ire pursuing the Rumanian forces on j f
:lie whole eastern Transylvanian front, j
?ays the official statement issued today i
zy the German army headquarters j
;taff. The second Rumanian army, the
mnouncemem auus, nu? uccn ij
?ack into the frontier positions. Bucharest
admits Rumanian troops are
retiring on the right hank of the Maros i
md on the left bank of the Alt.
The recapture from the Rumanians !
rf the Transylvanian city of Kron- :
?tadt is regarded in Vienna as having!
t>een due largely to the g? neralsliip and j ?
strategy of Gen. von Falkenhavn, ably ! n
supported by Austro-Huligarian gen- j
?rals. Von Falkenhavn was able to . x'
execute what, is regarded as one of; g
:he most brilliant open field maneu- j
irers of the war. Of the troops which ..
assisted him especial praise is given
the Bavarians and the Hungarian hon- s
reds. .4
The fact that the Austro-German forces t
vere able to interrupt Roumanian telepaj.ii
and telephone communications at E
nany points played an important part, it t;
s claimed. For example, the Rumanians ,
>I>erating near Hormannstadt were dc>endent.
on orders from headquarters at
?lo?esei. in Rumania, forty-five miles north ^
>f Bucharest. E
Orders Are Intercepted. ' c
Telegraph lines were tapped, and orders j o
'rorn Ploesci to the first Roumanian army i b
o hold its gTound until the arrival of the j
econd army fell into the hands of the
Germans. The second army, occupying |
he Segesvar-Foguras line. changed its | ^
Kisition to attack Gen. von Falkenhayu's 1
iroops. The Rumanian forces were di- t
ected at Hermannstadt, with tlie main
?ody advancing westward through the
rogaras basin. v
The situation of the Austro-German a
roops was critical for a time, but t
Sen. von Falkenhayn changed the dis- a
position of his forces to meet the c
emergency. As a result when the Ru- t
nanians reached the crest of the Fo?aras
range they found themselves al- 1
most inclosed in Kukulol valley. This t
vas von Falkenhayn's master stroke. The ^
Rumanians, realizing their danger, be- 1
San a retreat. Von Falkenrayn then I
concentrated his troops against the y
Rumanians stationed on the banks of *
the Alt river, suddenly changing his ^
front from south to northeast. The
Rumanians on the Alt in the mean- f
;irae were hemmed in by Austrian and *
Hungarian forces, so that von Falken- J ?
layn's second attack brought the Rumanians
into a blind alley, exposed to ?
in enfilading fire. j
Dislodged by Cavalry.
The Rumanians retreated to Fogaras,
raking up a position from -which they
tvere dislodged quicklj* by cavalry. c
They came under heavy German guns J s
.vhich had been placed in preparation j c
'or this move. Meanwhile honveds had i
idvanced from the northwest upon F'o- | 1
jaras and Hoehaholm, while near Her-' s
nannstadt the Germans were breaking \ ^
lown the last resistance of their oppo- f
lents. The Rumanians began a gen- j ,
ral retreat, which ended on the rail- ; ^
vay lines from Fogaras to Kronstadt | v
ind from Homorod to Kronstadt. j t
The Austrian.*; and Germans contin- ! t
led to press the /Rumanians. Teutonic ; t
einforcernents were summoned, and j
tfter incredible marching?some cover- j ^
ng more than seventy miles in two ! !;
lavs?attacked forthwith.
The Bavarian mountaineer troops '
rove'd to be the most dangerous en- , _
my of the Rumanians, with the Hun- : v
rarian honved cavalry a good second, j
ery hcav?"""1 *? j \
Latest Bumanian Report. 1
The latest Rumanian statement fol- j tl
Low:s j ^
"Western front: The enemy is at- j \,
tacking on the whole front. We re- j f<
pulsed, with sanguinary losses, an ; j-j
-nemy attack at Caineni pass, and on j
the heights east and west of this local- j <
ity there were artillery duels. We made j ?'
some progress in the heights east of
the Jiul valley. West of Jiul valley we ^
stopped an enemy attack coining from 1
the flank on the camp of Meagui. On
the Orsova front, there were artillery
duels. We easily repulsed an enemy
ittack at Osancy in the Tomes vail* y
Our troops are holding the positions ; 1
north of Prerlal, at Moccia and north- j s?
iast of Guivale." i n
! R
Bulgarians Reoccupy It
Brod in Cerna Bend.
Says Sofia's Report is
LONDON, October 12.?Bulgarian j g
troops have reoccupied the village of < ^
Brod, in the bend of the Cerna river, in j ^
Serbian Macedonia, which was recently j ,
captured by entente allied forces, ac- i 1}I
wording to Sofia's official report. The p:
statement reads:
"From Lake Presba to the Cerna riv- ! Ii
n- there was weak artillery activity, i B
In the Cerna bend the artillery fire was \ b
norc violent north and northeast of j a:
he village of Skoehivir. We occupiedJg
ihe village of Brod and repulsed sev- | u
:ral night attacks. j ri
"Oji the Nidje slopes we chased two j ft
nemy companies which tried to ad-j e:
anee west of Dobropolye. In the! si
Aoglena valley there was the usualjS
.rtillery and mining activity. j a]
"West of the Vardar river there was ' ai
t eak artillery fire and encounters with j li
clva'nced detachments. In the direc- '<
ion or j-iaoji reariman we ?'iinnu.ueu 11
ty flre and a bayonet attack two a
nemy companies." ^ tl
Seres Is Strongly Held. w
ei
l'le port nig the military operations m J ti
Jreek Macedonia, the British otiicial, al
tatement issued this afternoon says: , el
"Struman front?A mounted brigade, j K
n clearing the country up to the out- j ti
kirts of Seres, found the town strong- | h
y held by the enemy. tl:
"Doiran front?Further raids on en- t4
my trenches were carried out Tuesay
night. Two advanced posts were
riven in and some Bulgarian and Ger- ?
nan prisoners were taken." i I
Serbs Pierce Enemy Line.
VODENA. via Athens. October 9. and j
r> drrtoher 1? f ?North I
if the villages of Slivitza and Dobro- |
eni. -outhern Serbia, the Serbs have J '
(iereed the Bulgarian second line of I a
[efenses and captured 070 prisoners j fn
?nd eleven machine guns. They are ! Oc
Hacking the Chuke heights, whence j j>,
hey will be able to dominate the in- I
renohed Palagonian plain, before Mo- I
lastir. i T1
Further northeast they are furiously by
ornbarding the fortified mountain po- sti
itions at Dobropolye, the first step toward
the capture of Vetreuik. which, th
cith Kaintakcaian, constitutes the
gateway to Serbian Maccedouia. ai;
n
BOSTON PARK GOAL
OF HOLIDAY THRONG
FOR FIFTH CONTEST
'ictory Today Over Brooklyn
Would Give Red Sox Base
Ball Title.
1EC0RD FOR FINANCIAL
REWARD SET BY SERIES
iaeli Member of Victorious Team to
Receive $3,910.25 as His Share.
Losers About $2,833.47 Apiece.
BItAVKF? FIKLP. Boston. October 12.
-Columbus day brought some 40,000 o*
:ore persons out here this afternoon
? see what Boston hopes will be the
ame that will return the Boston Amer ans
a winner over the Brooklyn Naionals
in the fifth contest of the world
eries and again place the champion
American Leaguers on the lop ryig of
he base ball championship ladder. The
ostons have captured three games and
he National League pennant holders
ave taken one contest.
"We must beat them today." said
lanager Wilbert Robinson as the
trooklyns came upon the field. "And
ve will do our best. It will be Pfeffer
ir Smith in the box, and I believe
ither can stop the Red Sox. Rememier,
the series is not over, so Boston
etter not stick out any flags yet."
All Boston Turns Out.
All Boston turned out today. Hunreds
made their way early to Braves
field to obtain the best points of van
age in the unreserved stands.
Car lines and trolleys were Jammed
fith the throng that was good-natured
nd hopeful of the final victory for
he Boston boys. The sun shone bright
nd warm and helped temper the
hilling wind that blew steadily over
he Charles river.
Manager Carrigari had Pennock and
>VyckolT out on the mound pitching to
he Boston batters, while Mails and
ippleton tossed them up to the Brookyn
batters. Both Shore and Kuth took
art in the Boston's batting practice,
t-hile Pfeffer and Smith, the two
Irooklyn pitchers, participated in the
atting practice for Brooklyn.
It was a last trench fight which the
trooklyns prepared to make against
he Red Sox. Three of the four games
ilready played had gone against them
>y force of the- Boston batsmen's
trength or the sureness of the service
>f Red Sox pitchers. Only one game
ay between the Boston team and ah ttier
world championship.
Financial Rewards Set Record.
The financial rewards this year ex;eed
those of any of any previous
ieries. The Red Sox. feeling certain
>f final success in today's game, conemplated
with satisfaction their
hare in the $162,927.45, which is the
layers' portion of the receipts of the
irst four games, after which their
articipation in the gate money ends.
)f this amount 60 per cent, or $97,756,
.ill be turned over to the winning
earn. Should this go to the Bostons
hey will divide it probably on a tweny-five
share basis, allowing $2,910.25
l share. Although twenty-six Red
5ox piayers are eligible to play in the
eries, not all will receive full shares,
.nd it is understood the players have
.greed on the division by twenty-fifths
rith the idea of splitting up several
hares among b-ssor members of tho
lub, minor officials and employes,
irooklyn, if it loses, will have $65.69.93
to divide among twenty-three
layers, or about SU.833.47 a man.
But if the players were pleased with
he unprecedented reward the <-lub owners
re re even more satisfied with the fact,
hat the rival teams were to play today
efore <1 probable record crowd. Except
jr the national commission's 10 per cent
he clubs received the entire receipts, as
hey will in succeeding games if any are
ec.essary. The clubs already have added
i4,o0i* each to their coffers, and with
Dday's' expected additions the share of
ach should aggregate approximately
S>0,000.
Another Pitching Duel Likely.
While the thoughts of the players
amed in part to the money end of the
sries, those of the prospective spectators
smained fixed on the players and play,
latteries came in for first consideration,
oday the element of uncertainty in this
imnection was largely removed in the
tinds of the fans.
"It will be Smith for Brooklyn and
hore for Boston." nearly all agreed,
s they exchanged opinions around the
res lighted beside the gates at Braves
ield, where they went In the chill of
le morning to obtain choice of bleacher
laces, the fans could figure on no other
itchers.
Smith, because of his performance
i ihe fourteen-inning game which
oston won here Monday, was held to
e Robinson's "best oardi" Shore,
[though uncertain In the opening
ame of the series, which Boston won.
as still held worthy of Manager Cargan's
faith, while Ruth, winner tn the
mrteebi-inning duel of Monday, was
vpecteu to be held in reserve for posble
use tomorrow. In the event that
... artrl Ruth failed Man
<r-r Carrigan still held Leonard
gainst the possibility of a last-game
ght for the title.
In the forenoon the day was not enrely
suitable for Shore's best efforts.
frosty altn??sphere prevailing, while
le North Carolina schoolmaster Is at
disadvantage except In warm
eather Hut Forecaster Smith prophjied
that southerly winds would be
irned into Braves Field in the early
fternoon. to the satisfaction of play's
and spectators alike.
The two teams came early to the
rounds and had a long batting pracee.
Larry Gardner, the home-run
iro of the series, whose four-hassock
rive broke the Brooklyns' back yessrday.
came in for a big hand when
e came upon the field.
HREE ATTACKS WITH GAS
REPULSED BY RUSSIANS
PETROGRAD, October 12, via London.
05 p.m.?Three German gas attacks
unched against the Russian positions in
out of the Uskull bridge fortifications
tober S were unsuccessful, says the
jssian official statement reporting
-erations on the western Russian front,
le defenders maintained their positions
machine gun and artillery fire and Ueroyed
the gas apparatus.
A bridge eroded by the Germans over
e river Baldurka, in the region of
ilaucc village, was destroyed by UusLn
artillery.
