THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and warmer to-day; to-morrow,
fair; gentle shifting winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 63; lowest, 42.
Detailed weather, mull and marine reports on page 8,
tin.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 42.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1916. Copyright. 1U. by th$ flun rrmtlag and rubUihtng imddlten
ONE CENT
! Greater New Trk
Jersey Clly Mil Newark
Klsewher 1
ran t'Evis. !
GREECE'S FLEETiLL0YD GEORGE FAGES'
umir in u an no
HUH in iiauuu
OF THE ALLIES
I'ltinmtum Also Demands
Control of the Pineus
Lnrissu Railway.
ACTION TAKEN TO
PREVENT ATTACK
Fear of Pro-Gorman Activi
ties Given as Basis of
Decision.
WILL YIELD, SAYS
.MARINE MINISTER
Forts Commanding Moor
iiiirs of Warships to Be
Ofcnpii'd hy Allies.
Lnnn., Oct. 11. VI w Admiral
Djrtige tin Fournet, commander of tho
A ng.u-French fleet - In tho Medltor
ins presented nn ultimatum .,,
Jin. dtm.imllng that tlrcoca hand 1
ovfe lh- entire Greek lleei extent the '
ofr lh- entire orcek lleet except the j
urmored cruiser Averoff and the twit
tlfhlps s. mnos and Kilkls to the V.n
tente Allies by l o'clock Wednesday j
aft'ruoon, nCoordln; to Heutcr's i
At;.ns correspondent. Demand bs ulso
:iudi for the control of the 1'lne.uv
Lartsst railway.
The Minister of Marine." tho eor
rctpondent contlniita. 'says Vlce-Ad-.nlr-l
Kournet's demniuLs wi:i lm rum
inlcd Hlth nnd that the Meet will be
handed over before the prescribed tlm
J ,:e demands were made na n pre-' ow'" opinion, he declared, but the ex
tautioniry measure to Insure the l'rslon of the opinion of the Cabinet.!
sfty of the Allies' lice'" ' ot ",e war Ponitnittee nnd of the mill-,
, i , ,. ..".u. .... tury advisers of every ally I
i Mi..-, .(vihiiwii w nn- I n ti fi lei" I
H that Trench naval authorities have '
Uktn over all the Greek warships and
tile Grtck sailora put on shore.
.Move tu NMlrwaard Fleet.
It Is explained that the despatch of
artillery and ammunition to the Interior,
the movements of Gnek i-hlps nnd the
ortlmi-d activity of thu teiorvlst
.eaiuss have moored fears .if n disturb
nc uf order at points where the Allies'
w,ir vessels jilo onchored and also en-dii-g-r
the eouiity of the allied trolls
.? tie; ll.ilkan front.
i 'i-Aiimlral du Founiet demands the
llannin of the Kllkts, Lemnos and
veriff and the dismantling of the forts
ii the reico'isl, whllo the two forts
nmnundlng the fleet's moorings are to
i- lutijed oi. 'i- to the Admiral. Control
r.f c.it.iln points must nlso be placed In
tt.e latin, of the Hrlll-h and French uu
'"or Hi
Pi ndd'tlon to the disarming of the
a cli ps n. lined, their rrews itin to be
t'l'' od tu one-third the regular (otnple
.nii;. Ne finer lln.le in (ireeee.
A diepauh from a then dated Mon-
tV ns t'le Kmellte AlllfS hive ngdlll
fTred p as-l-t Greece tlnanclally In
raw .ihe eiittr- tlm war, hut tt Is under
stood no new concessions have been
made. Vhe reply of the Allies to King
Cons.tanilne' Informal proposals to de.
part from neutrality I- understood to
Intimate that while the form In which
the proposal.- rre made Is unaccept
able, and the questl in of llulgartan oc
cupation ft Greek soil Is considered
purely a Greek matter In which thu F.n
tentc Is not concerned, nevertheless. In
esse Greece voluntarily abandon- her
teutrsllty, declares war on Ilulgarla
nnd decrees a general mobilization the
Kntente will bo illspobrd lo furnish
every assistance In the campaign and
to give other material proofs of benevo
lent (nti rest In th,. welfare of Greece.
It Is underst wid, however, tint these
il'plomutle assurances an. not lo Inter
f.re In any way with thn Instruction
s'ready eli.n lo the Admiral of the
ollled flet to assure by means of all
teee.ary measure the safety of the
Hied armies in the Hast.
GREECE LONG WAVERING
Cabinet After Cnblnet Una Bern1
t'nnhle o Itelnln Piirrrr.
Events have moved rapidly In Greece
for the past year, but apparently In h
dree Stvrril times It seemed ns If the
courie nf events was about to follow
i-ne, d'-tinte direction, but King Con
'limine always managed to find an
other way out.
llecjus,, I'remler Venlzelos favored
iir.dng nf the Kntente troops at
-ilont-s the King forcr-1 his rrslgmi
"n iiftoler is. If.n. after the great
t.rc-k Hflte?mjn hud hold office six
months or so. M. Znlmls formed
C.ibl . t. hut split with the King III a few
illy, on the same question, M. Skou-
i"l took power November S, In May
las- st liovernment tiermllted the Hul
.ar to oceupy Macedonian territory.
Illi resignation followed nulckly. A fen
Jhvs I ter the Allies demanded that
ree-e demobilize. Zalmls again took
po-er nt- n Juno on tho understanding
nt he. w'js to put the demobilization
"o effect deport German propagandists
"ii not curb the growth of pro.Ally
i nt.mri.t
T ie liuij-.Trs, apparently with govern
rr.ietui connivance, took more territory
eel u-r (reii their pledge not to occupy
! i I'rinia or Kavala, This caused
t'le k and a r. volution In the north
''"e a la e In August. The allied
!.' nip- n,, r,rf t'io Pliieus and mndo
. rii , ir.-itirin K'lng Constaiitliie mis
"' ' "l August 27 by a mass meet-
ri Attn as. whli h prestnted a doeu-
jee it dMwn up by Vcnlzelns berating
t .. n on r h In language seldom used In
i u aiiv snveii-lgn.
Ii
e.-pti .11 ir.-i 4 Greece was supposed
it V to en'er tin- u'lir Thn Alltea'.,... i.nu .......U..l CC. 11110 nnn'lixtllnnu
, .
'inn ini timi r e.-lved control of thu
li i .I'm t legiuph and the artest of
in ..ly.ianariillsts, September I thn
s ' knliiupped" tho Fourth Greek
v-i i'. i (n nt K.iv.ila, Septeiuhei- 12
' restgred M. Dtiiiltrieoiiiilous
'' - f itio a f'tblnet but fulled, M.
CRITICS IN HOUSE
Mnintnins Stand That Wnr
Must Bo Fought Out,
Citing Asqnith.
PKKMIER ASKS CREDITS
War Costing .?2r.,.,50,000
Daily and .91,500,000.000
More Is Voted.
Ixi.stmv, Oct 11. The Secretory for
War. Mr. Lloyd George, met with strong
criticism In the Ifouso to-day on account
of recent public utterances to the effect
that the, Kuroncan war was to be a light i
to n finish, and that Ureal Britain would ,
tolerate no outMdo Interference In the j
direction of pence. j
Charles P. Trevelyan, formerly Parlla-'
mentary Secretary for Education, want-1
. . . . v. .. 'A oi ueeci me imiiHuiuie eoiicemraiioii ,111(1 ri nnapolls tomoi row. lie n experieo
Mr. Llojd George, replyliw. declared dlrilcultle may result I' German sub- mMUat,n ot th, rources of the nn- aK several short slops In Indiana and
that the answer to all criticisms could marine wnrfaro la carried on on a large n, " . . r,.u,., tt l( to-night hlJ de
li fi.iin.l lh. rr,n... iiii.i.a .l.-lll. .rut., on Mil M of Ihn Aliunde, nnd ... . . .. - 11 to.- i Wnill, ' III in r ill innii w oifcin
,g peronii.on toy." An .ii.ta I
eald, this was n mllltnry rather than u ,
'..l,lpru111''' Bfr',lr- A" " matter of fact..
viscount Grey had anticipated President
,,awi.r. i,rnriii'oi.
There was n great difference between
I llltf-rvetltloo lo .fltrrt nn Inteertfil Innnl
combination after the wnr tn enforce
wo,'(' Peace and Intervention at a mo-,
"" v-coi. !" "ir crcre- ,
lit ,r. ,i , , i . n . ,, ,
n nrvdl,.?,e
hJ"ita? d o 'tV1 "l "r?,e ,
o.eri'iuiuo now nrnuiii lie
he claimed thu right as Secretary for
vnr io express nis opinion on rucn a 1
matter.
lie did not Intend to withdraw .t eln-!
glo r liable of what he had said. It j
was not merely the expression "f his I
tt.t- i.. .i .
or !
qulth In his nddresa to tho House. 'This
th In 111- mldress In 111.. Ilnnae. "Thl-
n ar cannot be allowed to end In some
patched up. precarious and dishonoring
compromise masquerading under the
name of peace.
"No one desires to prolong for a sin
gle moment longer than Is necessary the
tragic spectacle of bloodshed nnd de
struction, wil xe owe it to .nose wno t
m.o uinr inn ui-i inuir rupninv .w tivolVe, will u illlerptete.l wmr
sacrlllcci Fhull not have been uniivnll- j evf r Vosslble In GenimnyV favor.
I"g- I The rensons which prompt President
"The ends of the Allies nr.- well 1 -son to levrrt to hit. noto wr'tlng tne.
known. They have been freipiently trs are said to be the complaints re-
Maleil
, They are not selfish, they are c(.Ved from American hiineM nud ship- inK to grant the motion. Justice lloden
mllc'.lve, but they require adequate j pn interests against the so.rulled he-k write-:
Hon for the pist and adequuto -hiockade" eierese.l by the German sub-1 -,v new trial should not he granted
not v In
r pa ration
security for tile future.
tureen t i otr treuii.
The House cheered Mr. Asoulth loudly ,
as he mado these remarks In concluding 1
his uddrese, and agreed to vote tho credit ,
lor noo.OoO.vuO usked for by thu
.. .11.. .i.i.i i.t..r. r.f-
ireiinei-, viriu.ui) no uiiwnr.111 ono
. ... 1. 1.. ..... . -n. ....... ii. e
irr.-u io 011 .winiinii. o- -.ir,,, ...
-iaii noii ruin t,rine- on th loiiil for iho
Mirr.nl lln,.l. ,l i.ir lo f I .!t.r,O.00O.0fllL
The vote of eiedlt Is the thirteenth
lnc the outbreak of the war, bringing1
tin the total to 3. in; lOO.ooo. As to
I .,ll, .i.. lu ... .Ar(rl , r. l.tut 1,1 1 1
until the end of tho present year, an
other request will be necessary before
March.
The Premier referred to the complcto
coordination of the general staffs of the
four great Powers and to the sympathy
and Interest with which Great lirltain
!s observing the courngo. tenacity and
strategical skill displayed by Italy and
Russia. Hn spoke appreciatively of the
pnrt played by Herblti and lle'g'um and
"lastly, by llumanla, whoso people and
King, In defiance of a thntmaud calls to
neutrality, Joined our cause."
"I wtfli I could add Grc.ce, ivltli her
Imperishable record of rr-litalice ngalnst
thu otitush of barbarism and tyranny,"
he continued. "Kvon now Greece, wisely
guided nnd wisely governed, might take
a worthy part on the rids to which sha
I- committed by great and glorious tra
dition-."
RAFFLES GETS $2,000 JEWELS.
Floldn t'p Pamllr Three llaara
Waltlnar for HI Loot.
A soft spoken, well dressed, nice ap
pearing young man, with a silk hand
'.errhtcf mask, robbed Mrs. Kugene Sen.
m-'.t, 1S71 Leland avenue, The Hronx, of
J2,00n worth of diamond rings nnd $20
In money at 8 o'clock yesterday morn
ing, after waiting three hours for her to
return from the theatre.
Imrlng the wait he drank some of Mr
Sennett's best whiskey, smoked several
cigarettes, never forgetting to keep Xlr.
and Mrs. Thomas Hoffmlre, who were
staying with tho young Bennett children,
eovered with his revolver as they lay In
bed.
When Mrs. Sennett finally came home
with her mother, Mrs. P. J, Sweeney, the
v.sltor worked so quietly In the bedroom
with Mrs. Sennelt that Mrs. Bweeney, In
thn next room, did not know about It un
til he slammed the front door, Mr. Sen
nett Is proprietor of n restaurant and
ciba ret at Westchester and nrook ave
nues, The Bronx.
GERMANY TO SEIZE TOBACCO.
Diet to Tmlif Ml Slocks Impeded
to Issue Tickets.
IiNPON, Oct, tl. The German Diet
has decided to seize the slocks of to
bacco throughout the empire, says an
Exchange Telegtaph despatch from Co
penhagen, It Is expected that the Issuance of to
bacco tickets will follow the seizure,
nn.OOO Widows A sit More Pension.
w.siii-.'nTo.v. Oct. 11. The Pension
llUIL'tli, nun ,...,- ........... b.. ,
nP increases of widows' pensions under
. the law pnsed by Congress; at the last
1 session, Of the applications SS.tlOO nl.
j lendy have been allowed and allowances
I nrn lining made at the rate of about
' nun u day. Widows of soldiers of the
civil or Mexlran war who have reached
I the age of 70 years sre entitled to In
uieami from 112 to )20 a month.
WILSON CONVINCED
BERLIN KEPT PLEDGE
Conclusion Is Reached After
Long Conference Held With
Secretary Lansing.
BUT WAITS FULL REPORT
New Note to fiermnny, How
ever, May Result From Sun
day's Submarine Raid.
On Uoahii I'RtsiprNT Wiwns' Src- j
cut. Tbaik, HAnntsnrtia, Ji., Oct. 11.
An a result of the conference nt Ismg
Hranch lato last nWht and early to-day
between President Wilson and Secretary'
running. It wan stated authoritatively
tn - nlght no evidence of the breaking of
acrrnai, jiromlses to tho fulled' States
wnj, discovered In connection with the
aubmarlnc activities off the American
coast last Hunday, hut the American
Government will continue Its Invcntlga-
tlona and will watch very cl'iely any 1
repetition of tho attacks. I
i . . .u ii
The, only direct comment on lh- .in-
cusalon between the President nnd fee-,
retary Lansing obtainable from olllclnl
sources io.nliihi w s that everv iinnle of
7ubma? Si", Vum on' ZTCu d.sf
.,,l jurM1r ,i, rmiferenee unit that .
new nrldnn hrmiw to tie front bv
thB etll Ilea of Ger ii sii ', nir nes so'
tho of""' of aerinau submarines w,
near Iho American coaM hu.l been gone
Into vi ry thoroughly,
Adn.lMl.tmlln.. nlllrl.it. ni.i.afelillv fear
refoVe" li" U nVry for 'u'Z 'a 'newlnd dlVm channei '
Government to nek all facts obtain i1l-. 1 0f eonimunleatlon and cooperation b
Pecans, of thla fc.ir It w.ls thought I twe.-n buine nnd trlrntlth' men nnd
probable that means would Ik? found Mrl:ll department- of the Government, nnd
ui - viivriioK "iit-ion ifvriiioo lintiiu-' i
content herself with the damage already
nnri ni 1.MI nmttrftle hOilliu pine U'lirfarn
orT the American co.,st.
Complete evidence on whether Get-
iimoj i ionl-e 10 pill iieerii,T .1
crrwB ill places 01 saieiy ut'inre MiiKimi
. . i . I T . i , . c.V i
Vl i 7,'"? ?' , " L
?,"'.C,5: " &TJ
President when he return- to Shadow '
Lawn l rlday.
NEW NOTE IS PROBABLE.
Trnor Will depend I'pun llesalt af
Inqnlrr hy Ns . i
Wasiiiniito.v. Oct. 11. Indications In i
that the new situation
eHusen U) a I.
erman submarine's ap-,
penrance off the Atlantic coast will be (
met by another note from Pref blent Wll. j
son. The tenor of the note will dfpend
on the Investigation now bell' conducted
by the Navy Drpnrtment. The policy of
the Admlnl-tr.'itloi u to appesse Ger
many be-ldrs ii'.vi ntuat'ng American
neutrality, and questions of International
marines ngalnst Amerlcnn ports, to
1 ..fh.r n'llli lh. ferie ,h-l HIlliTni, rln- I
warfare carried on at th- very doors of,h lh ,.,urt believes to be a true
the United Slates Is certain to Increase .,-,.,,,.. f ,i, material facts of the
the dancer to American lives and Amerl-1
can property.
The prevailing opinion In otllelal clr-1
ete- Is Iriiil tli. nntrt ATmnle it. it enll i
:ijn inai ne may nave snowier rnmire
Germfiiiv'- nttenllon lo these nh.ise.- of' , ...1 .... .
-- r. ., . .. J 1
in.- e.uiaiion wiuioiii ni.iKini; iin lorm
'f tlemnnd Utiles- til" fact- .1 SCIOsi-ll IV
the Investigations show such flagrant
violation- of t.-ient idedg-H mat a
TOIiirp I IIU I If lieeiiir-n ni-i-cfrio rj .
The qiieatlnn of the Admin stratlon's
pol... which dims now to npptn-' Ger-
man sympathizers, moy he serlou-ly em
barrassed by the facts concerning the
l.'-53's attai Ii, which tho Nuv liep irU
ment is gathering. The ttenil of testi
mony from the crews of several of the
ships sunk Is not destined to show that
International law was respected by tho
German commander, nnd the passengers
ntnl rri-vv from the stc:tmt.hlp Sl.-phnnn
apparently hive given n clear pinnf that
American live.- were endangered In their
Joint statement thai they were forced to
abandon their ship "under lire" lrom the
German submarine.
Secret.it y Uinslng will ehei k up the
stories Mlil hy tho.e eompi'lled to aban
don the ves-cl-, and endeavor lo aseer.
till it by cumpailsnn how far they tally
or wherein they illhagte.i. The .Stephunn
case still looms up as ihe mot Import
ant because Ameilcniiri were on board.
The question now resolves Itself, nr.
cording to officials hero. Into whether
President Wilson can square the facts
with the policy he desires to pursue.
PATROL BY WARSHIPS.
British, nowerer, Peny That Ad
rolraltr Will Control "nlllnKi.
A report published yesterday that the
nrltlsh Admiralty had assumed control
of the sailings of all allied passenger
nnd freight steamships hounu from
American ports wan denied by (apt.
Guy Gaunt, Naval Attache at the llrlt
Isb Consulate. There Is little doubl how
ever, that there may he an alignment of
fifty or more Hrltlsh and French war
craft along the Atlantic shipping lane to
protect tho munition carriers,
Tho Adrlutlc or tne vvnite Htar i-we
will snll to-day. according to the local
office of tho line, with more than 2.'.o
passengers and "nearly 18,000 tons of
car co. mostly war material. The Minne
haha, laden with about 13,000 tons of
munitions, but no passengets, alrn will
get away to-diy, having been delayed
twenty-four hours loading, The oillec
of the International Mercantile Matlno,
controlling the White Slur and ..Untitle
Transport services, nild jestenlay the
company was running on its own honk
and not under control of the Hrltlsh
Admiralty.
Tho Cilttnrd office saw nn reason tn
change Its schedules, and tho Pannonla,
Indcn with munitions nnd bound for Lon
don, piounhly will sail to-day fiom an
chorage In Ginvfsend Hay. Thoro has
been no change In the schedules of the
Italian liners, and It Is likely that the
Caserta and tho lie d'llnlla will sail, n
announced, on Saturday. Tho French
liner llspagno will, It Is expected, leave
for Ilordeaux on Saturday.
No vessels arriving yesterday saw
anything of thn Germun Fubmiiilne.
Some mystery was nltarhrd In the de
parture fiom tho navy yntd yesterday of
the battleship Nevada, which later
passed out the Hook and hteamed to Ihe
enrtivnrd. It vvus suggesiid that the
may have been fcent to the scene of tho
CoNflNMed h Btcond Pag.
WILSON NAMES 7 ADVISERS
FOR U. 5. DEFENCE COUNCIL
Daniel Willard, Samuel Gompers and Bernard Baruch
Are in LisU President Says Selections Are Made
Without Regard to Party.
On BiMnn t'nrainENT Wilson's 8rg
ciAt, ttARiitsourta, Pa., Oct. 11. Presi
dent Wilson, en route to Indianapolis,
announced to-night the Appointment of
the member of the Advisory Commis
sion to tic associated with tho Council of
Nnttnnal Defence created by Congress at
the last session.
Tho seven men named are:
Daalrl Willard, presides! nf the Hal.
tlmore nad Ohio llnllroad.
Samuel (i.impers. president of the
Amerleaa Federation of l.ahor.
Dr. Franklin II. Martin of Cbleafo.
Howard K. Coffin of Detroit.
Heraard Harnrh of New York.
l)r. Holll (lodfrey of Philadelphia.
Julio, Hoaennald of Chicago.
President' Mntrment.
A statement by the President In con-
neetlon with th nnnnuncetnent follows:
"The t'nuiicll of S'ntlcinul Defence has '
hern created because tho Congress has
leallted 'hat the country Is liet prepared
for wnr when thoroughly prepared fori
vrMe - ,.. 1U1 penri0ln,. ,,0i,t of view
mere , now very little difference be-1
tween the machinery required for com-
'"frclnl elllcleroy and thai required for
"ffijM"''' 'mfJ" '' Z. T
wllol,! Industrial mechanism must be or.
K1"""''1 " "" 'ffertlve way.
",T"" ""'"I'licn of Iho national
;( Cl,unc , ,)rKtert in the
..,. llf ,. ,,,. ,lf r.
i ,n i,ik ...in ,..i.. ,..,..ii,u iin
"". -I.V" ' " ' ' ' ..' J"-" .
,T I- noM.fi mai H Hill 111 aullluon I'O-
oom,. a r.illylmr point for e'vlc bo.ll.-s
u.i.ljlni. .n, t Vi .. i.,tl.Miil ,lfti
('onnrH's f'ht.-f I'aiirtlnn.
The council's chief functions nrc .
,,, ti... o,,r,ilnl.. ,.f (l f .rnu ,.f
"' T1"' coordination of a' f irms of been ma.le tnrougn non-pomicai or...-
Irnnsportatlon and the development oflzattor.s and that he would make no .
tr,.ntpor,a,.on to meet the change.
REJECTS STIELOW'S
PLEA FOR NEW TRIAL
Justice
Hndenncck Declares
"New Evidence" Would ' Company Agrees to Itccog
Xot Chnnpe Verdict. nize Brotherhood.
ItoeitKSTga. N. T., Oct. 11. Justice ,
Adolph J. flmlenbeeli handed down this '
afternoon his decision In the Stlelow
case, denying the motion for new
lrl.il The opinion contains about T.r.on
word-. "Th's Is n rnott extraordinary
case," It says.
Summarizing h's reasons for reru-
,.i lt. IS. ilefenit.ini nn on
. . . . .. ... ji. .ji, ,1... a a m ... ..I m .
homicide, and In order to allow him to
Introduce other evidence, cumulative In
phufnete,. r available before the trial,
.. .. . .1 ...
lore ine jurv n nere ini- rrnmi aiiu nrw 1
...i.,.... .i . .-i- .ninHiy
;r ng amnnvus saii-ij-i
e icsult of the first
,lv no- he changed In
is granted" !
as grameo. ,
the court that the
trial would probabl;
case a new- trial was
urrTT unifrrr. rw x i TIT TJ A '
Has Two I,nre Bands t Attack
rhlanahaa Town.
Chihuahua Citt. Mexico, Oct 11
1'
cl nda Sinta Ana nnd nnother bund Is
at Temosichlc, both nenr Madera, I'hl
.i. . . i
. .. A : n...iJ. ,Ji, ,,, M.,ioe
'.,'; ,i,l n,
dera.
w- "
Many men also are sild (o have Joined
the
Villa bandits, who. according tn
Major Morln. are moving on Madera,
from Santa Ana and Temotachlo. Ad- J
dltlonal Government troops are being ,
sent out from hero to tho Temosachlo
district.
WHAT'S IN A NAME, $500,000.
That' the Claim of Arhllle Joaeoh
nlahet. Formerly Itoschek.
There Is $Snn,000 In this name, or
rather In the change of It, If the owner.
Achllle Joseph Olihel, reckons correctly.
Mr. Olshel. a lawyer living at H9 Ster -
rnnclie
Tu,.i. -n Vnoihi. h.n.i ul'' Slionts-s dell.ince of the organization.
ling place. Hrooklyn, says that the of dpnnrlllrf ,,! tho date
family name was Hoschek for 1.400 'of ,helr ntr nra withheld,
vears. but that his father changed tt to T)n DuU() of pVonshlrc has been
Olshel on leaving Austria under n po- nlnt the Duke of Connaught's sue
Htlcal cloud many years ngo. , rckil0ri
In running through papers, following
.he death of his mother last April, he . .
found one which Indicated thut he. as the BISHOPS PROVE BAIL FANS,
eldest surviving Hoschek, Is, entitled to
an Italian estate worth triOO.OOO, and hn . World's "cries Score Announced In
ipplled to County Judge Fawcctt In
n..i,i..- ..i..,iv for nermu.inn tn ' Kplscopnl Convention.
assume the old nnme with a view to
making claim on the Italian Government.
Permission was granted.
GROG ASHORE NOW MENACED.
Antl-Ralnoa l.raaraa Wara Army
and Nary Clab'a tlar.
Wahiiinoton, Oct. 11, Afloat or
ashore trouble pursues the nnval otflcer
Secretary Daniels by his "ginpe Juice"
irder prohibited winn at thu nii'sses on
board ship. Now the Antl-Haloon
League Is making n fight lo prevent ihe
Issunncn of a bar llcenso lo the Army
nnd Nnvy Club nt the capital.
Tlm r. pr.-scntallve nf the league mndn
C. I', and I. Hnrns fSn.llUiS.finn,
Di:NVT:n, Oct. Il.--The nntiual report
of the Colorado Fuel and Iron Com
puny, made public hero to-night, shows
gross earnings for the year ended June
30 of 2ti, 025,605, an tncrinso of nearly
jii.oriO.ooo.
oftEAT nr.AB nraifsa wateb.
Me. the cue et six (Us slepprt4 (eltlea,
Air.
the con enllon nerore tne uxcise inmrn ,, i.,.ot,.Rtnnt Ihilsconal Church tudiv-l"1"' """ ""i"
to-day that the law prohibits, the grant- 1-1,0 . David Gm-r of New V.irk .f Mr AI"Mt Th f,',n.,.,,'""," ""IT
,,g of licenses to clubs or hotels In rest- itrlckii ivl h u seve e uttack of 1 1,,n,cr 'f ,"" ",v''la "" ,(""V S"."'w
deuce districts. The Army and Navy '"r,'. ,s now coined !'"; Slone, .iialrman o the Foreign C
Club Is held to fall within this category. "L.J onnne.1 to IiIh . , commit -e of the Senate. , ois-
'W''A "... i ..' . , ., . cuss Ihn questions of tho campaign at
military. Industrial
needs of tho nation.
"2. The extension
and cominercinl
of tho Industrial
mobilization work of the committee on
Industrial preparedness of tho Naval
t.'otisulllhg Hoard. Complete Informa
tion tu. to our prerctit manufacturing
nud producing facilities, adaptabla to
many aided uses of modern waifnre will
be procured, analyz-d nnd mad ue of.
"flnn nf llin nhlrcts of the council will
bo to Inform American manufacturers
as to the part which lliey can and muni
play In national emergency. It Is em
powered to rutublish tit once and main
tain through subordltnto bodies of
specially iiu.illlled persons an uuxlllary
oignnlzutlnn composed of men of llio
best creative and administrative ca
pacity, capable of mobilising to the ut
most the resource of the country.
.Vnn-psrllun In Character,
Th persnnntl of the council' nil
i vi-nrv members, appointed without re.
gard In pjrly, marks the entrance of th
non-partisan engineer and professional
mini Into American governmental af-
fHlrM on n wider scale) than ever before,
it responsive to the Increased demand
for and need of business organization In
public matters and for the presence
there of the best specialists In their re-
speetlve ile!d.
''in the pr.-ent Instance the tlnie of
rm", " lT'Ul'LTuVy
hoard could not be purchused. They
servo the Government without rcmuner-
on. ,mclency being their sole object
al)i Amerlcnnlsm their only motive."
iL ...in iMiv.r iwo
.... . . i in in. i
peeens an,, . "." '
Zn . .?." To-nlglil Mr,
vu-uri worked until late on tin- two
.,.,.,.),,.. h(. U deliver to-ninrrnw. IN
w! reach Shadow l.Vwn Krlday after-
niHin, j have wen brought out except for Nor-
The President received lo-ntght mef- nun Hapgood, who, judging trm what
sages from r vcral Indiana political I Ulm OII jesteiduy at l'.'mocratl.- V.ead-leider-
urging urtlie participation In quarter-. .uid hi- statement without
the Indiana .'impalxn on his part, but . consulting the real campaign leaders,
he replied thit U arrangements had I iir,..,.p, ,v ippnrters yesterday morning
been made through non-polltlcal organl- t maXlr k,10wn Wnn tt was thut had
-- - I
13. S. MEDIATOR ENDS
TUBE STRIKE DANGER
Settlement Reach ed After the
A strike In the Hudson tubes wa
averted ye-terdiv by a settlement ls
tween the "Ulg Four" brotherhoods nnd
Wilbur C. Flsk. president of the Hudson
and Manhattan P...rriF.d fompary rue
setiletnent was arranged by G W. W,
Hunirer. Federal midlator. who had do
voted the ureater part of a week to the
adjustment of differences.
At v o'clock 1. st nlxht, after a four
hour conference In
lh" company's offices ,,,.',, 'Mw that last ApMI Sen
t. the agreement w!n,lf Kfl,er. Mr H.ip-or.d'- fr.eml and
nt .10 Church Mr
inpoiineed. The terms compel the com
pany to reinstate the thirty-two em
ployeis who were dl"clmrged las'
wee. Itecognltlnn n!o was slvrn to
the llr thethood of llnllroad Trainmen
Conee-slon- wcte made hy th" brothel
hoods too. but the nature of these cou'.d
not bo le.irned
.i.n...i. ..VA.t.m..l.l.. l.a wnnM
,ohmiuii i"u "' e...n.-
v.-... nera......i n..i.. l, .r.i.M.,, nt rti
iue mtr. v...... ..... ..--
tnhe service, there were nreseni st tne
inoe en,'..., mnr
conference representatlvesof th Iltother-'
hood of Locomotive i:nBneers. which
ha. In It. membership all but six of the
motormen of th-under river trains.
The agreement t. rings ieace to nil quu- rMomL in n .-. .. -I
"Hie Four" men In New York and New wry lntlm.i'e with the powers tint D--'
ler.v .lh thn ee..iitlnn of the mem. , In I lellincra tl.- circles In Wahlt'gtoll
in. iv,' ry..,, in vn- v,ieu unit Vew
hers nf the
lirotherhoo.1 of Locomotive
Knglneers who are employed on the In-
terlioromh subway and elevated triltis to s,.e whether he cou'd not arrange tn- j.otou Horton, president of the Shef- of the wotn.i i a, II be exinni.. d n a--Ilrotherhood
ofllcers refu-ed yesterday terviews between prominent Pronages ;,.,..,.,,., rrt ler certain whether ! was iheil bv the l ollm
To-d.iy the wnmenfo k of the car
:ii wi's iiii inJiii mi' ii
striker- will hold their parade from
ttnlon Square to the tity Hill twenty-
l"" hundred wonien nr.- expccteit tn n
When the tnride reaches City
! tii tenntnilnn will trr to see thn
it, line lien ine iririoe reacnes i. v
Ml,vor u ( nnt expected to bo In
tow, to.imy.
willnm D Mahon. president nf the
Amalgamated Association, will forward
. tli strikers to-day J100.000 to be used
for urivie henellts,
I CONNAUGHTS SAIXJNQ SECRET.
Poke With lite Family "Hps Away
Fram Ottawa.
Ottawa, Oct, 11. The Duke of Con
nsught, retiring Governor.Oeneral of
Canada, the Duches of Connaught and
Princess Patricia left Ottawa to-day to
. J. V'"? ' 5"J 'V" V,: 1,
I ,sT. Lofts, Oct, U, Notes giving the
I result of the world's series ball game
1 were passed among the delegaies nt
ai- ,h uiuilnii nf Hie l-nisr-inul
I House of Deputies this afternoon.
The Massachusetts delegation manl
festrd much enthusiasm. The flight Tlev.
William F. Faher, Bishop of Montana,
announced the score to the House of
UlFhops.
BISHOP GREER SUDDENLY ILL.
Stricken with Arurltle While At -
,ed. Genera, Convention.
St. Isiijih, ct. It While attending
Attending physician said his condi
tion Is not serious.
HocUefeller llxempllon Api.enled.
Appeal was taken hy the Htntn Comti-
troller yesterday from Iho decision t
Kurrognln Colmlan that the Itockcfeller
Foundation la exempt from n transfer
tux. The comptroller Is trying to col
lect tax on bequests mad tu tho
foundation by Mrs. Rockefeller,
n sessiun in uie iiouea ui iiisnons m ... i.n... . a.. ...i.n .i.. ..i-..
SAY WILSON ANGLED
FOR GERMAN VOTE
Bidders. Replying to Ifnpgood,
Assert He Sought
Their Aid.
STONE WAS AN EMISSARY,
Editors Told Hyphenate At-
tacks Were for "Public
Consumption."
The charge made, by Norman Hap- .laeob llrlll, president of the Dairy
good of tho Wilson Independent League men's League, announced last night at
and circulated from Democratic national the Hotel Manhattan, through ttalph O.
headquarters on Tuesilny that Victor i Dullols. n Poughkeepslo editor, his
Itldder had wrlttrn that pait of Mr. - spokesman, that ho has won th milk
Hughes's Philadelphia sptech which had strike for thu farmers,
to do with the Itrltlsh mall seizures w.ts i "All tho big companies have slguod
answ-red by Mr. Itldder yeHerday. ul'-" 'r. UulloU said, "They have
With his brother Bernard. Mr. Itldder . ' bnrttnV
wont to the llepubllcan .National Com- nrc,M. Orders were l-sued bv Mr. llrlll
mlltee yesterday nnd gave out a Mate-
mni wnicn lie insisien roveu
President Wilson had for weeks b.en
angling for the German American vote,
Mr. Itldder nnd his brother said that
the President sought the support of the
German newspapers, hail Issued thiough
friends Invitations to tho German edi
tors to visit the White House nnd had,
through members of his otllcl.il family,
urt.un...i fe ..(.... r.- i... . .
ccntly as two weeks ago A hose con-,
fe.encc. the I..ddu;s asserted, the G. r-
man pnrTira tir nrnrmM lv Ktiiat(ir
.i... ... . .i ... .....
?'" " - Am nmrau
. . . I .ni . .... ..
. ' . rl't:" . :
".J. . -vn,. , " ' . ",n
glovu with the German American lend
"v. ... -. ...
ers."
Anasverlaar Mr. llnpn-ood.
Th Itldder statimetit might nver
t m;lU(1 uiiown who It was thut had
t.d ,, ,h!(t nm.r hn,, wrltten pnrt
of Mr Hu.hes's speech. H.iPRood tlna.ly
disclosed that his Informant was State
' Senator Kelt V KV ler of II Inol-. Th-
Senator received the Infoi matlon. Mid
Hapgood. from Illd.b-r himself.
It was nheu Informed of this Mate-
ment of IlnpBood's that the llldders
ent to riialimaii Wllleox of the Hepuh-.
can National Committee and gave ol,t
went
1 1 can
a statement slimed by Victor Itldder.
"Mr. Hapgood," said Mr. Bidder, bv
way of pteface, "has the unenviable
reputation of putting his feet Into It,
noil. l-f.11t. mil filcl up whenever Iia f.nen-
1 hi- mouth Sln-e he has seen rlt to open
1 this discussion, 1 now feel privileged 'to
llf: the lid.' Ills statement In relation
to the frantic endeavors made bv on
lllle.il pari for the purpose of enlist-
ltig the m.called German vote hi- mativ
f,i. is to -liiinnrt It. They serm to prove.
h.meve-, .hat it w.is tie Ii-miH'ratle
partv tint was trying to win favor with
the 'hyphenates,' as Wilson calls them."
liMlle.l to White House la April.
T .1 il.u M w IllH.ter In hi-
Infnrtinnt. hrouiht an lnvi'-itlon to nis
brother IWnard Itldder, to visit Presi
dent Uhson at the White House "for the
purpose of -moo-hills' over tnary of the
dltlleiiitlrs which seemed to h ive arisen
he'w.Tn Mr Wilon and the German
Atnerlear.H." The statement cocs nn:
"This luvltntlon was courti i'ily but
. .. j.ln.,. , nil however wer
fltmlV oeellneo. vv e nil, now.ver. wr
i...-uafcj 1... .u.
that Senator
i ,- .. . ., , ..,.,. .i.n
Ne ler did take Mr ' ' 11 Mu"o.. tno
publ'sher of th Ch'.aco I lirndpo.f , nn
f the latc-.j German Am.-rleftn p.rer-
In Chloaso, io . e Mr Wilson It wn
o
evident tint Senator Keller w.i-
v-i-rv lntlm.i'e with the power." tint D'
per.ator Keiier, niiring nis pem-ou- n-u-
to New rk, frequently cilied me up
""rs'lv'"' ."era tor Keller encour -
gcd us In the Imnresslon that he
' the messt-ncer of Col. House.
-un Snturdiy, Sep-cmbcr lt5, sna;nr
Keller telephoned for the purpose or r-
runu'lni: nn Interview at the M.nifs I-
,,,,, oillec In order lo discuss important'
political m.mcis. i nugni '. ' i"-
Int; that as a matter of precaution
we make It n point never to see Senator
Keller alone."
.Mr. Hi""', '":. :? ,,..
M-naior ive .er. '''';''"' '
Wl i- " .1
petted in." ana mmseii. ihs nn. m-
interview at which Mr. Hapgood In
hi. ttt-ment charged that Mr. Itldder
had told Senator Keller what was going
to be sall, tn the Hughes speech.
Calls Idea Prrpostcroas.
have n written stntetnent
"I have n written stntetnent from
Mr Abclcs." tald Mr. Itiduer, "tnat
no such remnrks as are credited to me
Uk.o ... .- -
In Senator Keller's letter to .Normnti
Hapgood were ever made and It Is nl-
most needless for me to s'nte that
even If such n preposterous Idea etr
entered mv head as to suggest that I
would write a speerli for .Mr. Ilugnes
,.r Mr VV'lt.nn or unv othei ciiiidlilate
I I would not confide such u thought to a ,
man whom I knew to be thu confidant,
of the Administration."
Mr. Itldder wint on to s.iy tnnt nur
1 Ing this Interview Senitnr K.-ier
Invited him to visit tne i resilient
ler hail
want you to come with mo lo visit the
'If . ...... .w. - ...
. Pn s dent at tile VV nue lioil'e o liwu
e ran ri mvitce you n
notir or iwu inai or i ihuum) ., i,.-i-
m.ltiy, IS the Wily .MT. I.IlIUCr Snifl
Keller put It.
"Knowing that he had kept his w'ord
with Mr Muller," said Mr Itldder. "I
knew 'tint' Sniatnr Keller was author-
Izi'd tn make good his promises. Never-
trrless I declined,"
Tint It was nol Senator Keller, hut
ir At,t... about whom the real sltu.i.
Itl0 centred Is disclosed by Mr. Hid-
; dcr, ns follows ,
, ,,..,,... ,hlln snior Keller ami mv.'
u gathering of Influenllnl flermnti
Americans to be arranged nt Terrace
Garden that very evening, I dicllned the
Invitntlnn Mr. Abeles Inimeduilely
up " " T ' 'V
, r"""!' J, ,
! '"""'' "Tl '"'Tit ," u" '
K,,'ln'; Jh" ." . , K U 85
it j.-iron..! .ii.'.i ii", uiit; ii, buiiii iojr
Continued en Tnlrd Page.
DAIRYMEN IN ROW
OYER MILK STRIKE
League. President Says Big
Concerns Signed Up, Other
Leaders Deny It.
FIRMS OBJECT TO DILLON
Brill Orders Formers to Send
Supply, Executive Com
mittee Says No.
In Puiighk.j. p.w ul 7 o'clock to-night
,, 'r i
mill 111 ll... t.mtiln.p -1-1... ...lib nlw Ir. I u 1
milk In the morning. The milk strike Is
noiv u matter of history. Comuils-,
eloner Dillon was the only man who
stood In the way of an earlier settle.
'"'""I; Tlui ".mpanl.-s have been ready
Hi sin iiiii' a ' Mitt itllll liin t7iUx7.
When 11. I) Cooper, at Little Fall.
N Y., chairman of the executive corn-
mitten of the league, heard that Mr.
llrlll had gone over the heads of tho
w " n-iegraiiiB 111 uresi-
1t,,ra"cnh?f nMxMVi
' " , f "", '"
'
tee.
M tlvtll t. -. - Mn n . . . l ,.u ..
mii line in, nuiiiuriir IO HGl,
Mr. Ooonu- suld. "only as he Is con-.
"" wh lh" committee n an ex-
nmelo metnl.ep -
Comniltiee Has Power.
"The executive committee." explained
,eJ,'.; I",0T..,?;r'"Lfi...lie
"got Its authority for the sale of milk
from the board of directors."
A special metllng of the board of dl-
rectors will take place at 10 o'clock to-
night at the Murray IIIII Hotel. Some-
r y
niinr is going to happen. As a ma-
or tile committee Is opposed to
action nobody would be surprised
'f be i,iit1.,j to resign as president.
. . i , " ,"",1r """
n"),k 'b;tl Ibmlim con erns had "sUne.l
nUh lh" league. Asked If "sl'tned
meont the artunl signing of con-
1 cannot say mat. inn
,h, have made remlemcn's
' and they will no- break the:
ntreements
them."
Th" companies making agreements.
according to Li.iIIoIh, Include Borden's,
Shellleld Farms. Mutual-McDermott, ously Injured vv-ro August Strn i
Alexander Cjitipbeii. h. f. Stevens, lxi- brousky, 24, who was hnt In tlm
cuet Farms, orange County Milk Asso- brtaat, head and twl.fl in tne left I'a.
elation, Horton Ice Cream. Held lo , pi.,. -. -r r,.eeiv..l
. Cream, Model Dairy, Urown ft llalley
nr,l 1 1 t . . . rinlt r"mr.
Mr. Duuols said he rnu-ed a notice . imiuiuoiriiHviiini,
to hu published In a Poughneepsle paper ' n.h.r. wnnn.l.it
vc-lerday calling upon league members, other. Wounded,
to a 'cept llonleii's offer of league con- I Others known to he woutnle.1 ire ' ' o
tr.i;'s and Iracue recognition and tell- W'llk. 2!. bulUt wound In hip si.tr. n
ll.g hem that Uordcn s and She Meld Trekeenl, 2fi, sb-i! in ft leg. Mt
Farm would never recognize "Dillon's Marlymak, 30, h.-id snd body i . 1
i fad- " i brul-ed. The jiolice K'lieve lit le ist t.. .
Then Mr. Prill's son, lMnard Hopkins ' otlur tiersnn- were hint b.u wcro taken
llrill, sent telegrams and telephone mes- to their homes by fnei.ns.
s.ig. to I. ague hrntich presidents for a Tiie riot occurred rtimt'v after V
referendiini Mid replies begjn to come o'clock, while a small shed adjomlnr ti c
In Tun telegrams were shown to re- Lehigh Valley f eight station In Fa"
porters There are over lVOoO league 1 Twcnt -second sir. et was burning. Tho
niembirs autho-ltles tin blue ,, starlet
'by an lneetid'ar . The lire was aline.i
eores Dillon'. 1,1,-n. j n the heart . ' the sr. lion pi.piil.iti I
Pretldctit Brill gave out n state-nent I"' striking .mpln.v.e- nf th- S' .tid.tl
commending the mldd'emen of New "H Cinipany and within Sin) v arils n
lork. rrltlclslng Mr Dillon's Idea nnd the Tidewater ml Comp.in's plant.
snggeMlnc the appointment ot a com- Men beltiv.-l t. to strikers started 'i
mltlee of nine similar to that proposed cut the bote as ' "i a- a line was laid
nt lnl Friday's conference between .lis- and others Inter:, r. . I visit tie tlre.uei
trlbiiters ami d-irynien. to Investigate I'ollrrm. n w.r.' n-.-ted f-om li-adirm
the milk question. ten anil the mind .o'tied on 'he n s-
C mmi'seloncr Dillon a!d last night soon n- tne.- .irr.ved Maliv or tho
h- would waive unv rights hn had at strike!- w. re a "tied wt'i revolvers
the h-igue's .ment If contracts h.nl nctu- According io a -t itennat made by
allv been made ltween the big dealers Police Inspector Dt III C.idv ln. list
and tin- league I Io added. However:
I .1,..., 1.. .ll.,,.. niu' atl.-l. nt.r,nim.nr
slurcd or entered Into'1
. , fl, ,,.iy j.,...ri,.,y nt tt. At.
tcrney-Getier.il's milk Inquiry, liefer.-
Dvkman nihil out t.stl'nony dealing
.... ., s..,i!leld Fntn- ..p tal stock,
t,e nmount of their pioilt, .i . saving
,. r,(ant. und Deputy Attorney-
,-,.lleri; Merton H. Lewis asked for an
adjouiiiment until Monday In onler tint
j,lfq;ce n'jur. who granted th" order fur
, invcs-.nrulloii, m'ght deei.le wheth-r
the nf. rce I- right or wrong
i-em oi uie i-iij s no,,,,.., no... .-up-
PI- cntue in yes-er.ny
1" III i'l Mill ' 1",. luviii.i'h , ........
that 11 has told pi oduc. rs at every coun
,,' ' ;,nm (1, ' frm products dlvi.lon
V!I pay t.l cents per hundredweight
vfr lfti, y,,.ir'H p.iccs for milk during
Nove,cr at.d December and will leave
i.n nr ,1ml n lh- nr ,-e of mill! for .f.nill.
lo arbitration the price or mini tor janu-
uiy. l ei.ruary aim ."- ....... T,e night battle, came ns the rulm'nu
irntors are lo be named by the Governor, j tlon I)f ,Uy , ,u,lc, two small tl.-i.
the Mayor, the Mercian s Association.',, ,hrrnt nf lM0 ,PI 0 Mo ,
the Commissioner of Health, the Cham- hesdnimrfei ami lihr.n- ...... .. .... ..
,..,n, n llnxlinal. nnt, mrli
n- o. v......... ...
nd by the dealers and Dairymen s
League, two each
" -
1 AiXiLit.ll JJI tflLL JX fillu,
A.lelnlile Winter. Ilsnker's Daiiah-
Soltrrs IlroUen VeeU.
' ' ,,,nrri' r,,hr"
Gkrvt Nkck, L. I., Oct. It Adelaide
iv utter, ii jr.us mo, u.tiiKiner oi
i lliilles .1 vv liner oi i.im i-oini, a re-
I tired banker, died at her home Inst night
ns the result of tipping over u rug.
ti tt'l.,,A. ... .H-lttrr llt.nii.l, .S..
in-iiio vv.ie ,,,e.......i.. ..u-.
' :
......
'I "O. num. -n v.ir m..ru ni'ii-
wood llnor. She fell heavily, her head
. striking ngalnst a chair
When she d.d not get up her father
' summoned Dr A, II. Catsons of Great
. Neck, and while the. tihyr.lcl.in was on
, bis way to the lioii-e Mr Winter was
unable to observe any signs of life In
hlr ilauglilet. Ul.! pnstcian sain the
"'" "lid petit nrohen ana that
, no, reported
I o Iho authorities, Justice of the Pencu
Gcotge 1 f . t . I o 1 1 . who acts as Coroner,
having been out of town all dny,
BUT ONE PARALYSIS DEATH.
Only nlrvrn New Cases Reported
TlirnnKhont the City.
There wns hut one death from In
fantile piralysls reported to the Hoard
of Health In tho twenty-foiir hours pre
ceding 1' A. M, yesterday, and eleven new
rases, Tho clay ueroro there nan pecn
fifteen new cases and four deaths.
The death was In The Hronx. The
total number of cases Is now 'J.177, audi
the total number of deaths 2,313, I
WOMAN KILLED,
15 WOUNDED IN
BAYONNE RIOTS
i
Battle Starts When Hose In
Cut Following an Iu-
cendiary IMazc. j
BUCKSHOT ANSWERS t
STOxXES AND BRICKS
One-third of Mob Made Up.
of Feminine Oil Strikq
Sympathizers.
'JALK OF ASKIX0 FOR
MILITIA IS REVIVED
Municipal Building Is At
tacked by 1.500 Passen- ;
gei on Trains Beaten
One woman was killed and nt 1ea
fifteen men were wounded, two of thent
dangerously. In a strike riot In liny.
onne last night. Fewer than llft.v,
policemen fought with x crowd of wcv-
nral hundred striker nnd tho bi.ttlo
ragcrt for twenty minutes. Hot!, aide
Ared repeatedly nnd the polite alsa
uaert their nightsticks, while their an-
. . ,,
"". women ns welt as men.
showered bricks and stones on tlm
,,.,.,,
Sophlo Torack, the only person
kl;ltf(J( wflg nol a participant In th
, Kl, .... tt,.tch!n.- the. Ileht
nale. bhe was watching the light
' from a window of her home, n few
yards nway, when n shot struck her hi
(ha hcA(1 ghe in the jayo,imi
Hospital.
Five nun, nil strikers, nlso vet
tnken to the hosplul. Tho mu.t '.vil-
I bullet wounds In the head and tlir lefs
num. tne o:n iirearms as. a ny uio
nolli-.-ni. n It el
gut's loaiuil vv tn unci!-
shot. The i.'ilh t ivhi'-h e.ru,.. i t'ie death
or by Mrllcers
Nearly a Ihl-d "f the rlotcf, aceord-
tng to the pilice, were women Win i
t'no light n.i- in prncr-H the :liemiti
succeeded In laving then ho-e umlis
turbed and t. tu rj was citnw alslicl
, with little djm.ip.
,
, Talk of fiilllnir Mllltli,
, Ta,, (f al!. n . . , , ,
h ' . ' '
to as
1 .s
tepre
..fpntiv,. t,om II,.
iUJUI -IJi'
William S Side, conferred with lien,
lie aieiy, nut a :in it lie, s on was not
reached. At that t.'iie Chief of I'olk-e
,CVI j ll.llli i 7 , ,1 , '
nient ceiilhi handle i ie situatliitf an tliirit
u-Z "Z hns n iVguUr foic of on "
Vme., an ha . swM U I !utevem
..... .. v
flVl! ,p,.,.a policemen.
' . .. ' . '".-t.'
P, ,, u. ,,,,u or n(1 i-,.,,.a. ,
Nt.lv j,.,(.f, Tweuly.f econd ktteei pas
i senser station, to ptevenl the l.tr ding oi
strike, breakers, weie dramatic f.-a'tirts
The ntlack on the municipal building
, eariy in ine niiernr.on was well planne.l
The 1,500 ill' ll HPpro.i'-hed the st.nlo,
'''0nl ' 0 l.lr"'tln". ,,n1 ,v,,rn llle' "ere
I yet several bocks away a f,ifc alnm
of tire called the il.emcn away fiv
ornoinmiieir, nuicn mrnis a pin or t
nmniinK ine leuiiers were pie si
against the steps at the entrance w u a
: Chief rtellly snd Policeman John J M .
..,., i..,. . ..i.,, ra ,vn
'lit-n recnli'ni
";..." . thns. .
, , , ,,.,r..,,c,o n, ,
i - n-...-, '- hi. .ot-io. Biiouieil ipu
, spokesman.
, "If any man sets foot on those steps
I'll kill him," rtellly answered,
The warning was eflectlve, The lead.
ers conferred among themselves ,mt
( finally decided to send .1 cominu'ef o,
, four Inside to parley with the i-ih ot-
iicmis. to tnceo delegates He r.h
Cain snld :
"Itos, you uie do'-ir .1 fooll.h t n-,
tn fljht tho police, t et in., rving t.
protect you us well us tne (ntip.,nv if
John D Itockef. II, i we ,. to i ,.;ute ihe
law lis tlies up ,, ini . ,,,n,, we vvouM
treat him the same Wny."
Tin. two Irul I i nuestrd for cartj
Ing concealed weiqioi.s
Station llnsirr Ilcnicn,
Tile iitrlkers tool; po si- . on of t,,.
Twenty-second strict si ii.n about
In Iho mornltn: S.-ve il t. sii. .,
- tint waiting room vvi-re i. vr.n
the si itionum nr. not, " c-: itc
ler.-n, in- mm eei np.ui i.v , . m. ,i
nnd beaten s b.nllj I., w ., . . i,, n
lliyonno ho-pltnl. ,..l.i, i. . ,i
Yotk, a tinvilllug than, riu, i.i, .'. J ,
O'Connor of the J.iiutli Yatlv!) H.iiliond
