iron County Register
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY.
iUBSCRIPTIOK I
One Year, (1.50. Six Months, 10.75.
RATES OF ADVERTISING
Furniihed 0 Application. Special In-
ducements to Home Patron.
Address Register, Ironton, Mo,
State Historical Society
P. P. AKE, Publisher.
OUR OOD, OUR COUNTRY AND TRUTH.
TERMS-l.50'-Year la Advance
VOLUME L.
IRONTON, MO.. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1916.
NUMBER 19.
JOB-WORKJ
Best equipped Job Print
ing establishment in this
section of the State. We
insure satisfaction; prices
reasonable.
TRY US.
The Child Labor Law.
Chairman Willcox of the Republican
National Campaign Committee says
that the Child Labor Law recently
passed by the Wilson administration
has a joker in it which renders it of
no service and a fraudulent ,. bill.
Candidate Hughes himself has said
that the children ot the nation have
not been emanoipated by this law and
repeatedly has sought to be belittle
and discredit it.
However, Owen R. Lovejoy, gener
al secretary of the National Child
Labor Committee, in a published let
ter emphatically protests against such
criticisms and says that the bill was
earefullv drawn and thoroughly con
aide red. - It was not lammed through
Congress, but had been pending for
three years. Both Democrats and
Republicans were well represented
on the Senate committe that con
sidered it in final form and both
Democrats and Republicans stood
solidly for itj In this form. Only
two Republicans, Oliver and Penrose,
voted aeainst it. . The thirty-day
clause was necessary because without
It a manufacturer who once employed
child labor would be disbarred forever
from interstate commerce. He con
eludes his letter thus:
"The Federal Child Labor Law was
- framed bv the best constitutional lam-
yets in the country; it was passed by
a Congress that had given it close at-
tention.'
Kpnftt-.nr Albert B. Cummines. Re
.nhiinnn nf Inwa. asserted that? the
allegation of there being a joker in
IMS law Wan W1VUUUU niljf .vuuviav.vu
and stigmatized persons making such
iio.ratirTia na "nither insincere or in-
' .competent." He states unreservedly
that the (Julia .Laoor ijaw i certain
to "effectuate the humane purposes
hi rli the friends of Child
Labor .Legislation have for a long
time Deen Biriving.- oouwi- uum
mi tigs has long been an ardent advo
fD f rihiM I.nhor ietriHlation.
vaio v. " --o
The Chicago Herald, an mdepena-
nanAt nnmrnpririnp on this law.
said the statement of the National
Child Labor Committee carried more
, conviction than the picking of a flaw
during campaign time. That this
n.mft-tia wdq rpannnflihlft for the law
and assured the public that the law
was not jammed through Congress
and was framed by good constitutional
lawyers and considered carefully for
. 1. ...... .raai.fi HefftFA Tilt fl ! r P .
These non-political, Republican,
and independent statements moat
-effectually dispose of any campaign
Claim mat tne unnu uaour uuw whb
mot wisely, honeBtly and thoroughly
drawn ana passeu. v, -
Who Will Control Hughes?
(From The St. Louis Post-Dispatcb.)
At the Union League Club recep
tion to Mr. Hughes, Col. Roosevelt,
denouncing Mr. Wilson's foreign
Bolicv. remarked that there would be
no oeDaie in inn uHrmauxvonjuovag
to the resumption of submarine war
farfi "if thev (the Germans) knew
they had as President of the United
States a man who would not tolerate
any kind of action ot ttiat sore."
Mr. Wilson did not tolerate unlaw
ful submarine attaoks on American
fennels or merchant vessels with
Americans on board. He made such
a strong case in defense of neutral
rights under international law that
the Herman uovernmeni; aunuuweug'
.fid them and eeaHed unlawful attacks,
"Nfintml rights and international law
were upheld by Mr. Wilson through
diplomatic) means wunou& war.
What evidence is there that Mr,
Hughes will not tolerate them unless
Mr. Roosevelt controls Mr. Hughes'
conduct? Mr. Hughes is the chosen
candidate of the leaders ot tne uer-man-Americart
Alliance. He has the
snnnort of all the men who are fight
ing for the German cause in America
and of practically all the German
lancnase newspapers, lnese men
and these German organs are trying
to defeat President Wilson Because
he did not accept German policies
and submit to German dictation; be
cause he did not place an embargo
on trie shipment of war muni
tions to the allies in violation of in
ternational law, and did not let the
German submarine warfare De con
. ducted regardless of American rights
and international law. unless Mr.
Hughes is grossly deceiving his Ger
man supporters he will do precisely
what Mr. Roosevelt says ha will not
do he will tolerate any kind, of Ger
man submarine warfare and will sub
mit to the dictation of the German
"Government.
The weapon to be used to bring Mr.
Hughes to terms is the fear of defeat
for a second term through German
votes. The New Yorker Herold
frankly declares this. It says that
even if Mr. Hughes should wish to take
into office pro-British, anti-German
advisers, the defeat of Wilson will
prove that he cannot ignore with im-
? unity the German-Amerloan vote,
t riBDBnds on "German blows" in
' American politics to bring Mr. Hughes
to terms. It quotes wun nearly ap
proval a German correspondent who
says: "Incase the German-Araerl-piva
Mr. Wilson a sharp lesson
In the election, his successor, Hughes,
In order not to spoil the proBpects of
a second term, will take this well to
heart and will not feel that ODliga
tion to tread on the German-Amerl
' ran onrnfl. too much ft la Wilson."
The German-American vote is to hold
t.ha haianca of nower for the control
of the foreign policies of the United
(States lor tne Deneui 01 ueruiany.
Mr. Wilson Is to be defeated because
he did notsubmltto German dictation,
regardless of American rights, and
his defeat will be a warning of a simi
lar fate for his suocessor elected by
German votes. Of course, if Mr.
Hucrhes defies this club and follows
the advice of Roosevelt, Bacon, Lodge,
et al. there will be war with Germany
Bnt the German-Amerioan leaders
have such faith in tho political cow-
ardioe of Mr. Hughes that they are
willina to take the risk.
How does this German program for
the control ot American polittcsappeul
to American votew
i 'Pi IP
The people of Missouri have the right to judge of
the promises of the Republican party by its perform
ances in the City of St. Louis, where the Republicans,
for many 3rears in undisputed control of the city gov
ernment, have had every possible chance to carry out
their ideas of efficiency and economy. Read, and com
pare. Let the records speak.
A -TALE OF TWO
GOVERNMENTS
DEMOCRATIC .
1. The State of Missouri is ruled
by Democrats. -
2. The Democratic State govern
ment costs less pe- capita than
any other state government
3. Missouri controls over three
million people.
4. The State expends but $5,981,
134 per year.
5. The cost of the State govern
ment per year is only $1.81
per capita
' 6. About seven per cent of the
. income of the State govern-
ment goes for salaries.
The entire pay roll of the State
of Missouri amounts to less
than one million dollars.
8. The Democratic State govern
ment paid off a bonded debt of
$40,000,000, left by Republi
cans, and it did so while re
ducing the State tax levy from
fifty down to htteen cents.
9. The State five years ago voted
$3,500,000 for a new capitol,
The capitol is almost finished
and will be completed within
" the appropriation.
'
10. Out of its state revenues the
Missouri government has ere
ated and maintained a univer
sity and five normal schools,
and maintains the largest per
manent school fund in the
Union.
REPUBLICAN
1. The city of St. Louis is ruled
by Republicans.
2. The Republican city govern
ment of St. Louis costs more
per capita than any other city
government in the United
States. . ,
3. St. Louis controls about 750,000
people. ,
4. St. Louis expends $10,500,000
per year.
5. The cost of the St Louis city
government per year is $14.00
per capita.
6: Seventy-five per cent of the
enormous income of the City
of St Louis is frittered away
in salaries, as shown by the
City Comptroller's report. '
7. The City of St. Louis throws
away one million dollars per
year in salaries paid to useless
clerks declared by the Chair
man of the Efficiency Board
to be wholly unnecessary.
8. The Republican city govern
ment has- steadily increased the
bonded debt of St. Louft, while
just as steadily increasing the
tax rate.
9. St. Louis nearly ten years ago
voted $3,500,000 for a free
'bridge. The bridge has already -
cost nearly $7,000,000, is not
nearly finished and the end of
the cost is not in sight.
10. Out of its city revenue St
Louis has never created or
maintained a university or a
normal school has never cre
ated or maintained a perma
nent school fund, and now
finds a $3,000,000 bond issue
necessary for school purposes.
Federal Aid for Roads.
m..nnJ ;ll iui 1RQ79A49 frnm
the government as Federal aid in im
proving postal highways, inn money
must De used in tne several volumes
on the rural deliveries and star
routes. This money will be appor
tioned by the State Highway Com
missioner Frank W. Buffum. It is
quite likely that some requirements
i. j . i
wui De mnue ui eacu cuuuty ucium
any of the, funds are available for
actual work.
AnArirriincr in an Apt. rtf nnnpreRR-
I1IVUU1 I
. - i i . i i . .
wmcn nas aireauy guns iiuu tiueui,
tha FaHoral Dnv.inmanll will ftYnend
75 million dollars for road construc
tion over the country in the next nve
years. This must be expended in im
proving rural post roads under co
operative arrangements of the various
states, me reaerai goveniuiem-a
share in road work in co-operation
with the state is limited to 60 per cent
of the estimated cost of construction
under the provisions or tne act.
This Bection of the state will derive
some benefit from, the funds, but the
I act cannot De construeu io meau mat
the government will take up the com
niota hnilrtincr of the roads. It indi
cates that the government is disposed
l to help in tne wora, dui iub prun-ipm
part or me coDsiruuiiuu un wi
left to the initiative of the people in
the districts where the improved roads
are desired. The Federal aid must
not be interpreted to mean that the
government will play a .leading part
in the construction of the roads it
will simply assist to a certain degree.
TTnrioi. tha nrnviainnR of the bill
$5,000,000 is made available for ex
penditure a urine; tne nscai year euu-
I ing June 3U, mil, ana inerenner mo
Mr. Taxpayer, this hits you. How do you like the
comparison? Which government do you prefer?
Think it over and cast your vote for Democracy, for
economy, for efficiency, for
GARDNER AND A GREATER MISSOURI
annortionment is Increased at the
rate of 85,000,000 s year until 1921, in
which year tne sum proviaeu wiu
amount to $25,000,000, making a total
of 75,O00,0O0.
Fair Exchange.
A New Back for an Old One. How it
Can be Done in Ironton.
The back aches at times with a dull,
indescribable feeling, making you
weary and restless; piercing pains
shoot across the region of the kid-1
nevs, and again the loins are so lame
thuttn Qtnnn is HuflllV. No UB6 tO
rub or apply a plaster to the back if
the Kidneys are weaa. iuu rauuu
reach the cause. Ironton residents
would do well to profit by the follow
ing example.
B. Bradford, carpenter, Federal
Hill, Flat Kiver, Mo., says: "My
kidneys were out of order and I had
backaches so severely'that I couldn't
stoop or bend over. My kidneys act-
aA i.MnntDi.ff and tVlR kiHnftV SeCrO'
tions were unnatural. I bought Doan's
Kidney Pills and used them as direct
ed. They rid me of the backaches
TMit. mv birlnpvR In srood order."
TlCe OUC, at 11 ueaiero. jjuu .
eimplv ask for a kidney remedy-get
Doan's Kidney Pills the same that
Mr. Bradford had. Foster-Milburn
Co., Props., Buffalo, N. Y. Adv.
Political Pointers.
Hughes while he was In St. Louis, but
like the many other "What would you.
have done, Mr. Hughes" questions
they remain unanswered.
The name of Ed. Koeln headed the
list of those seated at the speakers'
table at a dinner given to Mr. Hughes
in St. Louis recently. Koeln is the
man who, with Brewer Otto Stifel and
Jep Howe "delivered" the guber
natorial nomination to Judge Lamm:
Koeln, drawing 10,000 a year as city
collector, has eighteen relatives on
St. Louis' payroll, and he is leading
the fight in the courts to defeat the
efficiency law in trie new city cnaner
and perpetuate the spoils system.
Mr. Fairbanks not the man who
makes the scales attempts to be
little President Wilson's great service
in keeping our country out of war by
saying there has been "nobody to
fight." He doesn't seem to agree
with the head of the ticket whose
spokeman. Col. Roosevelt, says there
because we didn't pick them out, big
or little. i
Among those who complimented
TJroaidBnf. Wilson and the Democratic
congress for passing the eight-hour
law and averting a calamity, was
Henry Ford, one of the largest single
employers of labor in America. Per
haps Mr. i ora, WHO among iue tvo
publican candidates for the nomina
tion for President, would have rambl
ed aloDg better than Mr. Hughes.
"What would you have done, Mr.
Hughes? Would you have averted
the railroad strike as Mr. Wilson did?
Do you favor the eight-hour law?
These questions were fired at Mr.
President Wilson's methods have
preserved peace. How long would
peace be preserved with the war par
tisans in power?
Spirit of the Administration '
. In my experience with United Stat.g Congresses during two score years I have not seen anything Ilka
the fins spirit toward labor, toward the right and welfare of all the people, pervading all the branches of
the Wilson administration. Labor has been recognized neither In th spirit of defarencs on the one hand,
nor of patronage on the other. ,
, But the spirit of recognition his been the right one: that labor should be made part of the National Coun
ells; that Its patriotism should ba conceded, and that Its knowledge of Its own needs should give It pars
mount voles In legislation directly and peculiarly affecting Its own rlghta. t
This fundamental right spirit his guided the Wilson administration to wis and righteous labor legisla
tion. Because of that spirit and Its results in definite laws and policies, how can llb.rty-lovlng Americans
loyal to the Republic and Its Ideala fall to sustain an Executive who has don so much for their rtallzationf
SAMUEL G0MPER8, President American Federation of Labor.
Washington, D. C, August 25, 1016. ...
" I! iwl uuwiiw mum m.ii. nummmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrn
Slio a f ew Prince Albert
smokes into your systeri
Copyrlsbt Hllbr
A. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
VnnVfl hpard manv an earfrl if nut the Prince Albert
natentprl nrncpss that cuts out bite and Daren and lets you
smoke vour fill without a comeback! Stake your bank roll that
it proves out every hour ot tne day.
Prince Albert has always been sold
without coupons or premiums. We
prefer to give quality !
There's snort smokins a nine or rolling
your own, but you know that you've got
to have the right tobacco! We tell you
Prince Albert will bang the doors wide
open for you to come in on a good time
firing up every little so often, without a
f regret! You'll
1
f
the national joy smoke
feel like vour smoke past
has- been -wasted .ii4Jbesry you cannot
back up for a fresh start.
" V 'hi " " !
Iryy ou swing on ths say-so e was a tJP t0 a M
Srmi. thousand-dollar bill! It's worth that in happi- fcj
Vr-' ness contentment to you, to every man rJ
Mwfrfiti who knows what can be
llWSwif f 1 Gf$ gotten out of a chummy II
Jimmy pipe or a makin's
HlfifiB Prince Albert for If
U 11 11 Bill 1 H WisPl W -Vl 0 SVV ''rAC0 v -rfS W A aideottheudy onitsreverseside. You'll
W '-I n ta Y ri'VC redlln ST-Jir read :-" Process Potented
f 4l TO ;V 1 Vft0"iSL? ' ' July 30th, 1907." That mean.
I HJ IT Prince Albert awmliw you
I fiS I ml , In toppy red bags. 5c: tidy
I Ml 1 II IMPJVhVTOII ftVTc-rtt Vi'4' reU tins, 10c: handsome
'HI 1 A poundandhalf-pound
1 urn ' iiimmm mi mi iij'iihiii Jl'.in'i " iiii'-'miiwiiiw iiiMjiJJg" "giLtjLjy. . ' ""
-1 " ' 1Tr" M" i
i ( If
Maxwell has put a real meaning into the word
"Service." '
Simply by requiring every Maxwell dealer to carry a
full supply of Maxwell parts so that he can replace
any damaged or worn part at once, without waiting tor
parts to be shipped from the factory.
If you are a Maxwell owner your car will always oe
. ... ,.!r hovine nnr dealer any Maxwell
dealer can give you real and immediate service. 11 ne
couldn't, he wouldn't be a Maxwell dealer.
Not more than one or two automobile builders in the
country can give you service that compares with
Maxwell Service
This is a vital point. Investigate it fully before
ouyrng your car.
Roadjttr SS80: Touring Car SS9S: Cabriolet S6S; Town
, Car t9l5t Sedan I9SS. Fully equipped. Including
electric narter and lights. A II pricet . o. o. ueirxxi.
i
wo rmutiK'. -! I
'W -r-. " - A
T V. l t t
i' tV , l '
. r"i' 1 )i
y-- - m...iif aw n imr.ui i ' nmimmmtmmimmmammam
FORSHEE & BALDWIN
LOCAL AGENTS
Phone 95 IRONTON', MO
Deterred Pavmajtt
If-Dcsirtd
