ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AM INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
an
TV ENT Y-SEVENTfl YKAB
11 PAGES
PKOEMlA, .rjf'JONA, THURSDAY MOKNIXU, .OCTOBER 12, 1916
14 PAGES
VOL. XXVIL, NO. 145
THE
PORT
FEARING
ma
11
ni t my da TV
linL I
REPORT TIT
PTBnTrr
a a LunuiyiL, du i hum
, DECIDES TH TAKE M CHANGES
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire day. Captain David P. Studlcy of the
NEW YOHK, Oct. 11. Although lightship was asked to forward what
there w.is no news today to indicate information he had in the matter. A
that the Herman submarine U-53 was radio message from him tonight said:(
Mill lurking in the Atlantic sea lanes "A report of the sinking was re-1
and while some shipping interests lie- ceived from Captain Wilson and crew
lined she lias headed for Helgoland, of Strathdene when they hoarded this
there was evidence that the British ad- vessel. They claimed they saw the
miralty will proceed with caution in al- Kingstonian attacked and crew taking
lowing Hritish ships to depart from At- to the boats. J"he crew of the Chris-
ltntic coast ports. Two British vessels tian Knudsen boarded lightship after'
due to sail today, did not leave and it pullin for hours after having been
was reported that others which have sunk thirty miles south of the light--cleared.
Iioth French and British,' will ship." !
not sail at present. j Naval men were inclined to think i
Shipping circles heard today that m inaicaieu mat me repurteu i..t.s oi
Admiral im.i :. i-no Rrnuruini!' in com. the Kingstonian was an ei ror.
m.itid of the British fleet ni Halifax, conditions Sunday
Insistence Upon American Rights Does Not Mean War
INEW ACTIVITY ON AUSTROilALIM FRONT HI'
i n , i in mm
niiiLinuniiiuiii
AN IMPORTANT MEETING
HELENA, Mont.. Oct. 11.
Charles W. Fairbanks, republican
candidate for vice president, and
the women of the Hughes Alliance
met here today, the women west
bound and Mr. Fairbanks headed
eastward.
Mr. Fairbanks and members of
the women's touring party made
short addresses at a meeting held
here during the noon hour: All
were positive in their assertions
that the republicans would carry
this section by a large majority.
A reception for the women by
Radio
were not the best. I
had issued orders detaining the British tney pointed out. ana n inerxuiunrai, , members of tlle women-8 clubs here
merchant vessels now in America or f moment u w.uim followed the meeting. Their special I
ports until such alime as it was deemed, the Strathdene to have confused tne, , train pft f(jr BuUe a , m ,
saie for them to depart Kingstonian with the Knudsen, owing, .
A dozen other British snips, includ-1 to a similarity in their code signals A
Ing the lug White star passenger liner im.wur.i .... .......jv ,
:-t their clearance papers today but it till has failed to disclose any trace of
was said that with the exception of the the Kincstonian's boats and no inquiry,
Adriatic, the dates of their departure ''as been received here concerning the,
would dmend iiiinn the develooments fate of her men. The Kingstonian is
in the efforts which, it is taken for,'" 'he service of the British govern
granted. the British admiralty is mak- ment and no records of her movements
ing to rid American waters of the sub- are made public.
marine danger. , . . ,
The Adriatic White Star officials Germans Ollll imerejiea
k:inl will si.il at noon tomorrow nnrl : BERLIN, Oct. 11. (Via
A .,..UUAncrapo KAAn r, , , . lllf urn J T.lliri n "-'Hiunuc
titled. The continued absence of d-ln.l.r?st t.lf .ermn su.bTiV
rne acu lues un me rtiut-m.au n.ii.
The news of the submarine raid is
prominently printed, but there Is a
ondon).
to show
ices indicating additional submarine
activities along the Atlantic lanes, re
volted in a reduction today in marine
insurance
,m li.iT-,.i ..ni, singular indisposition to comment on
from the high mark struck . ..hintv .h,.t it .in l-ad
Monday. 1 tales were quoted at 2Mt
NUT T
if nil
nC fJPIITRfll ITV
Ul I1LU I linLI I 1
INT
i
no 11
Dutch Want Explanation
TEil HAGUE. Oct. 11. (Via Lon-
jverr
lprnpH on the basis of facts already
land. This belief is founded on the asrcrtained will Immediately ask
knowledge that the cruising radius of (;errn.-,nv to explain the sinking of
i.i ciass noais uoes not ececu Ine Dutch steamer
Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. Oct. 11. The policy crossed the border Into Rumania.
per cent, a decrease of F,0 per cent from .,!, mrm.n i rnrilv
the general quotations earlier in the dlsmis.pd .,. disCussed at all
There was a strong tendency in na- j
ai circles tonav to oei eve mat me . i. i
F-r.S is headed for her base at Helgo- ,'a ' ,ho h (lf f.., i I ren H v ' lana coast wm nnt ne determined until
much more complete information as to
; all the facts has been received. This
nlnnmnradiiU- In I ailllounceil oj cieci eiary LiiniiiK
of the I'nited State regarding the
recent V'-boat raid off the New Eng-
Republlcan A. P. Leased Wire
The Italians have again taken the
offensive against the Austrians in
their endeavor to reach Triest, Aus
tria's chief port on the Adriatic, and
at several points south and southeast
of Gorizia have made good progress and
in addition taken nearly 60U0 prisoners.
South of Gorizia the Austrian line
was broken between Tobar and Ver
toiba. according to Rome, and on the
Carso front entrenchments between the
Vipacco river and hill were cap
tured. Here the town of Novavilla and
a strong position around the northern'
part of the hill fell into the hands of
the attackers. Trenches in the Tren
tipo region also have been won by the
Italians and 520 Austrians made
prisoner.
In Transylvania the forces of the
Teutons are continuing their drive of
the Rumanians along almost all of the
front. Bavarian troops which cap
tured the Rothenthurm pass now have
Ac-
WOMAN KILLED IN RIOT
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
BAYONNE, N. J., Oct. 11. A woman was killed, two men probably
mo-tally wounded and a half dozen othr persons less seriously hurt
when the police fired a volley into a crowd of Standard Oil strikers
ami their sympathizers which was demolishing a fire engine tonight.
The engine had responded to an alarm and had been held up by a bar
ricade thrown across the street by the strikers.
Two men, one a striker, are in a critical condition with several
bullet' wounds in their bodies. Two other men are in the hospital
with les serious wounds. Several others were shot, according to the
None of the policemen or firemen
crowd of several hun-
the i;
7."(n miles.
New Kngland
the Atlantic off the
Coast last Sunday
American Naval Activity "Within th Law"
NF.WI'oRT. R. I., Oct, II. The' tlFRLIN. Oct. 11. (By Wireless to
American navy is taking every precau- Sayvilb'). "Concerning recent devel
lion against the use of the American opmcits in submarine warfare, it is
tonight after his return from his con
ference on the subject with President
Wilson at Shadow Lawn.
Although the secretary declined to
elaborate on his statement, other of
ficials indicated that much would de-
coast as a base nf supplies for foreign tnted bv a competent authority," says 1 pend on Rear Admiral Knight s forth-
snhmarines All rtav todav there was ihn (lvorriis News Arenrv "that coming repon on ail tne naval pnases
rreat activity amnns; the destroyer fto- submarine activity along th "lines of, of the raid, particularly the steps taken made a further advance,
to insure me saieiy oi passengers. apaiova anu I'roseniK,
police, and taken away by friends.
was injured.
Fewer than fifty policemen fought with
dred strikers. Both sides fired reoeatedlv.
The firemen, responding to an alarm, were jeered, and missiles
were hurled at them as they advanced. The crowd which followed
thorn soon became menacing and surrounded the apparatus. Then a
concerted attack was made on the engine, which was quickly wrecked.
The battle wh'ch followed the arrival of the patrolmen, who opened
fire as fiey approached, was sharply contested. The concerted attack
finally won. however, and the mob was dispersed.
The 'iot was the culmination of a seris of disorders durinq the
day, the most serious of which was an attempt by a mob of strikers
to release from their cells in the city hall two of their number who
rad Been arrested tor carrying conrealed weacons.
AND CDURAGE
tilla at the naval hase here and when so-called cruiser warfare is .n ac
the destroyers. MeCall. Forter and cordance with international law as ad
I'nmmings went out on a mysterious mined by all legal authorities and
mission todav Rear Admiral Knight, in reputable statesmen. Further, the
command of this district, was asked if pmccicc of German submarines in no
the boats were searching for a suh- v.av violates promises and interpre
marine base or looking up some for- tations given by German authorities
eign suhmarine tender. nnd nccpted bv other nations.
I cannot answer that." the admiral Germ-in submarines act only after
slated "but we are letting no report living due warning and after allow
ed submarine hases or tenders pass by lnK "mi le time for the crew and pas
without investigating." I sengers to leave the ship in boats. It
Shore leave among the men of the Pointed out that even the Reuter
fleet has been greatly curtailed and , ,e,.pramB a,r' unable to give any de
each ship in active command has a full la" indicating Illegal action on the
complement alwavs on hand. Many of,',Rrt of ? uba.rln: ...
the officers admitted tonight that thevl Pan st'" Xlkinq
i nuiii, i. ii. i ue iicwnjdurm
were running no chances of being
caught short handed- as they were
Sunday, when several destroyers went
to sea with only a third of their men.
to rescue the crews and passengers of t0'rot
tne snips sunK nuring tne outoursi oi
German submarine activity near the
There was every evidence that Secre
tary Lansing had gone to see the presi
dent more to discuss possible eventu
alitles. and to prepare against them,
than with the idea of making a definite
decision.
The secretary was emphatic in de
claring that the government's attitude
would remain undetermined until a
complete Investigation had been made,
but he would not indicate what im
pressions he had gained from the presi
dent, with whom final decision rests.'
Officials here expect that the report
from Rear Admiral Knight will be
ready for Consideration within a few-
days. It is emphasized that the gov-
' " V ,U'",:"M 'mll"ly l ernment is making every effort to com
situation created by the operations of . ., ' . .iV.i.
Ccrman underset craft in American
waters. AP of them evince lively in-
in what ".he Washington gov
ernment is likely to do in the mat-
t Ml- Thn Tnn... ,w! .- r. i . , .! a
.anmcHci ncntsnip. bo suuuenr, nut ,a,in artit.ie on the subject as fol
the destroyers put to sea for their life ,,.
saving work Sunday, that some of is dou jtful if American export-
hm felt the strain of being driven jPrs rP deposed to allow the organl
under forced draught, and the Fries-, zation of a blockade of their coast,
son. Palch and Cassln were laid up and th-U the country allow the Ger
for minvr repairs to their engines. mans to trifle with American neutral
!n an effort to clear un the mvstery jty. As to the Germans, one would
concerning the British steamer Kings-'have a wrong idea of them to think
t"nian. which was reported both by the that they will confine themselves to
Nantucket Shoals lightship and the these firat exploits, even if there Is
rrw ff the torpedoed steamer Strath-' an Ihtervnl before the renewal of
dene as having been destroyed Sun- them." .
1
'5
mas.
TO SUBJECT DFlrltSrt COnSGR PTIDN
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire I rations the premier had detailed.
ni l. 11. A ills la "1 winr
for faltering counsel or wavering pur
foee." km id Premier Asquith In ad
dressing the house of commoBi today.
This war cannot be allowed to be
iJitihed up by precarious compromise
masquerading under the name of
jace.
"No one desires to prolong for a.
single moment longer than is neces
rv, the tragic spectacle of bloodshed
;ind destruction, but we owe It to
tho, who have given their lives that
heir ri'preme sacrifice shall not have
been unavailing. "
'The .ends of the allies ar yell
Iwnti. They have been frequently
iated. They arc not selfish; they
are not vindicative, but they require
a-lquete reparation."
The house necred the ' premier
luMy as he made these remarks In
concluding his address, lifter moving
vote ..f credit for t 00,P0O,W0.
Prmier Aspiith referred to the
complete co-ordination it tne general
Maffs of the. four great Dowsers and
to 'be sympsthv and iiftercxt wlrh
which Grc.it Prltaln Is observing the
courage, tenacity iitvl strategical iskill
displayed r,v Italy and Rii.-tsl:t in the
Mure distant fie'ds. He spoke nnpre
ti 'tivelv of the part played y Scrhi.i
snd IVIeium and lastly of Rumania,
"whose people and king. In defiance
t f a thousand calls to neutrality, Joined
our cause."
"I wish 1 could add Oreece with
her imperishable record of resistance
against the on-rusn of barbarism an 1
lvranr.i." he rontlnued. "FYrn mr.v
Gn-cce, wisely guided and wiselv gov
erned, might take n worthy, part on
li e subject to )' Ich she is com
mitted" Sir Fdwnrd Onrwn. the Tl.i'.cr lend
er, commented I rlefly on Premier Ar
iuith's declaration, lit said the op-
demonstrated that Great Britain need
have no fear for the valont persist
ence and success of the new army
which had been tried against the best
German trained troops and found su
perior. Sir Kdward said the fight
would he carried to a finish, but de
clared there was no use in concealing
the fact that the task before the army
was herculean.
The whole nation," he declared, "Is
determined to gain a decisive victory."
1 he question, he asserted, of more
man-rower, especially from the re
(Contlnued on Page Two)
plete its Inquiry as soon as possible;
but that it wants to avoid a hasty or
ill-advised decision In so important a
matter. , .
Whether the German commander
took proper care for the safety of the
persons he put into small boats from
the attacked vessel! is a question In
volving points on which officials be
lieve there is no clear precedent and
on which a decision by the I
States might approximate a preced
at least so far as concerns 'any further
submarine operations Germany may
contemplate on this side of the At
lantic. Before any polled is determined upon,
it is expected that the opinion. of the
neutrality board, created at the be
ginning of the war to advise the state
department in regard to such ques
tions, will be discussed. Any decision
it renders will be submitted to Secre
tary Lansing but will not he binding.
Much significance is attached to the
findings of this board which in the Ap
pam case, for Instance, laid down the
policy approved by the department and
upheld in the courts.
Considerable interest centers on the
continued silence of the allied em
bassies. Again ' today It was stated
positively at the state department that
no representations of any sort had heen
received from the allies as a result of
the t'-53' depredations off the Ameri
can coast.
cording to Bucharest, which admits the
ret.rement of the Rumanians around
Kronstadt. says fierce Teutonic attacks
were repulsed south of Hermannstadt
with heavy casualties to the attackers.
Berlin concedes the capture of the
French of a German salient near Ver
mandovillers in France and also by the
British of first line trenches near
SaiUy north of the Somme. Counter
attacks by Germans on positions of the
French in the Chaulnes wood have been
repulsed.
in Greek Macedonia the British have
occupying
while the
French have taken trenches on the
heights west of Devedjill.
Fierce fighting is going on between
Bulgarians and the Serbs on the front
below Monastir. Berlin says that
along the Cerna river and west of the
Vardar. entente allied attacks were re
pulsed. Advices from Athens are to the ef
fect that the commander of the Anglo
French fleet has demanded that the
Greek fleet, except three vessels, be
turned over to the entente allies and
that the forts on the seacoast be dis
mantled and two other forts which
command the mooring of the allied
fleet be turned over to the admiral. The
sxivfees say the ultimatum will be com
plied with.
The British official press bureau an
nounces the German losses during the
war up to the end of September as:
Dead 870.182; prisoners and missing,
428,829; and wounded, 2,257,007 a to-
FIRST CHIEF
FACE TO FEE
REVOLT
IT.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Oct. 11. That the
Legalista forces are planning a united
effort to overthrow the Carranzu gov
ernment in the state of Chihuahua
within the next few days, was indi
cated by information received here to
day in military circles. The program Is
hi
ouu
IT ROOSEVELT
I
(Special to The Republican)
NKW YORK. Oct. 11. Taking the
exploits of the German submarine
U-53 off the shores f America as his
text. Col. Roosevelt has launched an
other broadside against President
Wilson. Mr. Roosevelt declares that
he conduct of the war has led to a
- rt me tasing oi juar- "complete breakdown of the code of
et j and attacks on Carranzista gar- international rights." and this he
risions at other points. hat part Vil- Mnmes on the . ,,ontius Piiate-like con.
u 11.10 in me MiuttMur iii ts not Known.
It is believed here there is no danger
of an attack on American troops in
Mexico. Plans are reported to be for
the Legallstas to throw their entire
strength against the de facto forces.
(Continued on Page Two)
PAID FOR FINGERS
Republican A, P. Leased Wire
PARIS, Oct. 11. Dr. Menard of the
Cochin hospital was decorated with
the legion of. honor today as a recom
pense for his loss of two fingers by
exposure to the x-ray in hospital
work. Dr. Menard, who has lost
J fingers from each hand, has accom
plished admirable results In surgery.
Still Engaged Gathering Facts
Concerning Submarine Affair
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ON BOARD PRKSIDFNT WIL
SONS SPECIAL, HARRISBURG, Pa.,
Oct. 11. As a result of the conference
last night and early today between
President 'Wilson and Secretary Lan
sing at Long Branch, N. J it was
stated authoritatively tonight that no
evidence, of the breaking of German
rromises to the United States had
been discovered so far in connection
with the submarine activities off the
American coant last Sunday, but that
the American government will con
tinue its investigation and will watch
closely any repetition of the attacks.
The onlv direct comment on the
discussion between the president and
Secretary Lansing obtainable from of.
ficlal sources tonight, was that every
"ingle, of the submarine situation had
been discussed during the conference.
Administration officials apparently
fear thit difficulties may result if
German suhmarine warfare is waged
on a large scale on this side of the
Atlantic and that it Is necessary for
the government to seek all facts ob
tainable. Because of this fear, it was
thought probable that means would
l e found for discovering whether Ger
many will continue submarine warfare
on this hemisphere.'
Complete evidence as to whether
Germany's promises to put passengers
and crews in places of safety before
inking vesels, were carried out In
ltReichstag Don't
Care to Talk on
Submarine Issue
Republican A. P." Leased WireJ
BERLIN. Oct. 11. 7 p. m. (via Lon
don, Oct. 12, 2:48 a. m.) The session
of the reichstag today was barren of
sensational developments with regard
to the submarine issue. The subject
was introduced with the announcement
that the conservatives and radical so
cialists insisted on a discussion of it,
hut Count Friederich Von Westarp, one
of the conservative leaders, merely re
affirmed the conservative belief "that
the use of unrestricted submarine war
fare waa absolutely called for in order
to attain a speedy and victorious peace
against England." He refrained in the
public Interest from discussing his mo
tives and reasons for desiring subma
rine warfare, he said.
Under the circumstances, the ammu
nition of the radical socialist Hugo
Haase against ruthless submarine
methods were fired in the air. The
other speakers, in addition to the com
mittee, avoided almost entirely the del
icate ground the debate brought out,
but there were oft-heard charges that
the chancellor's opponents were waging
war against Dc. Von Bethmann-Holl-we"
for shady selfish motives, arid
counter' assertions that they were in
spired by no hostility to Chancellor
Hollweg but by a desire for the weal of
the fatherland and the fact that vir
tually all the parties consider England
the great and Important enemy against
which the sharpest war should lie
waged.
In general, the fortnight's dellher
ations in committee and today's debate
in the reichstag seem to have left the
submarine issue virtually where It was
before the reichstaj? convened. The
reichstag has not spoken for or against
a change In the present submarine pol
icy, and neither has it condemned nor
approved the opposition to the t?han
cellor's policies, which will continue to
be conceded outside the parliament by
the same methods as previously pre
vailed.
ut. von Betnmann-Hollweg was
present during the debate but found no
reason to Intervene. He seems still to
be in control of the situation in which
the Associated Press is reliably in
formed there is no immediate prospect
Demand Upon Carranza
EL l'ASO, Tex., Oct. 11. Emelio
Cantu. private secretary to General
Jose Vsabel Robles. a former Villa
commander who iiccepted amnesty
from Carranza and later revolted, ar
rived here today from the state of Oax
aca with the report that General
Kohles hns a large force in the moun
tains of that state and many are Join
ing his command.
Cantu claims to have written a let
ter to General Carranza for Robles. de
manding that the first chief retire at
once; civil governors to replace mili
tary governors in the various states
and the cabinet ministers be named
from civil life. If these demands arc
refused Robles threatened to head a
general revolt against the de facto gov
ernment, his secretary declared.
Cantu says he left Oaxaca on Sep
tember 21st for the border on a special
mission for his chief. '
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
CHARLESTON, W. Va., Oct. 11.
Charles E. Hughes, in his twelve-hour
campaign tour through West Virginia
today, outlined before audiences his
policy towards the maintenance of
American rights, declared that in stat
ing his stand he had "no agreements .
with anybody," and referred to the
United States as being "before the
world, a great neutral nation, to vin
dicate the integrity of international
law and the rights of neutrals." To
an audience at Parkersburg, Mr.
Hughes said: "I stand for the devel
opment of the American nation, ac
cording to the genius of its institu
tions; for the honor of our country in
the protection of American citizens and
with respect to every American right
on land and sea, for its firm enforce
ment. "We are before the world, a great
neutral nation, to vindicate the integ
rity of international law, the rights of
neutrals and I stand unflinchingly for
the maintenance of the rights of
American citizens with respect to life,
property and commerce."
In repeating these statements here
tonight, the nominee coupled with them
a statement made earlier in the day
before an audience at Parkersburg:
T have no understandings, no agree
ments, no intrigues with anybody," he
said. "But I stand for the interests of
the United States and the protection of
American lives, American property and
American commerce throughout the
world."
A man in the Huntington audience
shouted to Mr. Hughes: "What about
j the Virginia debt case?"
" "The Virginia debt, sir, is a matter,"
Mr. Hughes replied, quietly, "to which
the supreme court of the United States
gave its best consideration, a decision
which you and every body else ought to
respect."
A roar of applause greeted . this
statement.
"We are dealing with the record of
the present administration," said Mr.
Hughes. "When that administration's
record is examined its defenders seem
to protest as though it were a subject
which should not be criticised. We
struction which Iresident Wilson has
but on neutrality." The sentence ' He
kept us out of war" which i.s one of
thn fhinf 'iron mnnt u t (ha A am,.., p.j 1..
campaign. Colonel Roosevelt describes ca.n,no' ZlVlllZf ,v,
actions which have been taken in or
der that we may make a fair estimate.
The other day it was said that the
alternative of the present policy of
Ps "the phrase of a coward," and ut- '
terlv misleading.
"Pn-Eldent Wilson declared that the
war and the issues of right and wron.i
involved in its conduct and methods the administration was war, that any
were oi no concern to America, tne one who undertook to criticise that
leadinp neutral," says Colonel Roose- action must necessarily favor war. I
volt. "He thereby put America in the am a man of peace, and it Is because
position of refusing to do her duty to I desire to see American peace safe
others. He inspired contempt in oth- guarded that I insist upon a firm and
ers. This Invited aggression by oth- unflinching maintenance of American
ers. In the face of this aggression he rights and such policies as will de
speedily put America in a posit'ir, of' serve and hold the esteem of the entire
refusing to do her duty to bet o'en
citizens. Step by step intern.-'.t.on-il
law has been broken down. By the
(Continued on Page Three)
world.
"The policy of a sound enforcement
of known rights is not a policy of war.
(Continued on Page Two;
Where Villa Is
CHIHUAHUA CITY. Mexico. Oct. 11.
Francisco Villa's command is at
Hacjenda, Santa Ana and another at
Temosachic, both near Madera. Chia.,
states a report received bv General
Trevino today from Major Morin of
KOraMMISIUED
TO HAT1IIL DEFENSE COUNCIL1
. Republican A. P. Leased Wire ; nomic point of view, there is now
Ov ROARD PRF.S1DRNT wii,. very utile aitrerence netween tne ma-
last Sundays attacks is expected to; of a change as the government does
be ready for the president when he not contemplate any alteration in its
returns east, Friday. policy.
. , ; -.1.1 f ... nnmmopnlal of-
the Carranza garrison at Madera. Many .SON'S SPECIAL, HARRISBURG. Pa.. I icincv and that required for military
men are also said to have Joined the Oct. 11. President Wilson, en route j purposes. In noth cases the whole
Morin Tre!,n,w a?rMnK, l -MfaJor t Indiana,Kdis toniBht. announced industrial mechanism must he organ
".r"'.ar! min'nK n .Mille.r;!..from ,h ,,,, , , , ,u Jizcd in the most effective Way. Upon
rama una arm temosacnic. Addition- ,"' i " , this ' "onceution of the national wel
al government trooos are hci,, sent advisory commission to be associated i i""cel'V""., 7.M
out from here to the Temosachic dis- wltn the council of national defense,
tl-jCt rrfttieu uy congress at toe last Fes-
General Hilario Rodriguez com-"."' At ,ne ,ram.e t'me ne issued a
manding the Carranza forces in i)u' ent saying ne nopea tne council
rango, has also sent a report to Gon-I becon, a rallyin P"mt for civic
eral Trevino of the surrender of a num
ber of rebel chiefs including Eutimio
Garcia, Francisco Soto and Macedonio
Lozano with their men in northern
Du rango.
Refugees Coming in
EL TASO, Oct. 11. Refugees arrlv-
fense."
The seven members of the new ad
vlsoty commission named - by the
president tonight are: Daniel Willard.
president ,f the Baltimore & Ohio
tailroaJ: Samuel Gompers, president
of the American Federation of Ijbor;
or. hronklin H. Martin of Chicago,
...un i uuriiriu u.nuici to-1 Howard E. Coffin r.f Detroit, Bernard
' ! i vi I""'r" ' "'"'Ke.pnn'.ch of New York, Dr. H. Lois
number of Mlla s men at Hacienda, Godfrey of Philadeb.hia and Julius
Santa Ana and at Temosachic.- They Koscnwald of Chicago
said that refugee families were leaving The presidents statement follows
these two places for Pearson. Santa ."The council of national defense has
Ana is 35 miles southeast of Madera. been created because the congress
Madera is only 80 miles south of the has realized that the country is best
prepared for war when thoroughly
(Continued on Page Two) prepared for vcace. From an eco-
Campaigners for Prohibition
In a Moist Missouri District
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. LOUIS, Oct. 11. Defiant op
position to the arguments of the prohi
bition national campaigners developed
today in eastern Missouri. At Her
mann, a wine center, and Washing
ton, both wet towns, Ira Landrith, the
vice presidential candidate, was in
terrupted both by individuals and
groups of angry wets. Seemingly al
most every man in a crowd of several
hundred at Hermann shouted "no"
when Landrith asked a group of school
children to raise their hands if they
wanted a dry state. The children
voted "aye" almost unanimously. Later,
from different parts of the crowd, in
dividuals shouted remarks at the
speaker.
What are you going to do for rev
enue?" shouted an insistent questioner
at Washington.
"Raise more hogs than hell, and you
won't need so much revenue," I-andrith
roplied. "When this nation goes dry,
we'll have more markets for other
things that will produce revenue, too.
The old soak who's been feeding his
wife cracklings and shorts will feed
her bread and ham. The amount we
will save in the cost of conducting
JiUls, insane asylums and similar in
stitutions will go a long way toward
reducing the amount of revenue re
quired." J. Frank Hanly, the president nomi
nee, escaped interrogation. He took up
Landrith's economic, however, insist
ing that the nation could be made dry
at a profit.
fare, the council is organized, in the
words of the act, for the creation of
relations which will render possible
in time of need the immediate con
centration and utilization of the re
sources of the nation.' The organi
sntion of the council likewise opens
t'P mw and direct channel of com
i'lanic; lion and co-o;eratioii between
business and scientific men and all
7 ;.-: imcnts of the government, and
!t is hoped that it will, in addition.
1-cco::-, a rallying point for civic
1 odie : working fot the national de
fense. "The council's chief functions are:
"1. The co-ordination of ll forms
of transportation and the develop
ment of means of transportation to
meet the military, industrial and
commercial needs of the nation.
' 2. The extension of the industrial,
mobilization work of the committee
on industrial preparedness of the
naval consulting boards. ' Complete
information as to our present manu-
f 1 urin fin.l nr. .lniino- fo nl li t ioz
I adaptable to manv-sided uses of mod-.
em w arfare will ' be procured, anal
yzed and made use of. , -"-
"One of the objects of the council
will be to inform American manufac
turers as to the part they care and
must play in a national emergency.
It is empowered to maintain an auxl
iliary organization composed of men
"apahle of mobilizing to the utmost
the resources of the country.
"The personnel of the council's ad
visory members, appointed without
regard to party, marks the entrance
of the non-partisan engineer and pro
fessional man into American govern
mental affairs of a wider scale than
ever before. It is responsive to the
increased demand for and need of
business organization in public mat-,
trs and for the presence there of
the best specialists on their respec
tive fields. In the present instance
(he time of some of the members o!
the advisory board could not be pur
chased. Thev serve the government
without remuneration, efficiency be
IiifT their sole object and Americanism
their only motive."
