_ . - >• • • st • • • - • , ■ • •
State and City Confer on Plans
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH .
LXXXV— No. 237
BOSTON AMERICANS WIN WORLD'S
CHAMPIONSHIP SECOND
TIME BY AGAIN BEATING BROOKLYN
Pitcher Shore Hurls Wonder
ful Ball For Red Sox in the
Last Gme of Series; Not a
Hit Made Off Him Until
Latter Part of Fifth Inning
and That Was a Scratch;
Team Plays Airtight Game
Back of Him
FIRST CLEAN HIT
CAME IN SEVENTH
42,620 Fans Witness Con
test; Pfeffer Knocked Out
of Box in Eighth; Dell
Takes His Place For the
Dodgers
y
Why the Telegraph
Is Late These Days
MEN and women who do not
care a hoot how the baseball
championship series turns
?v? l, T a V e as *®d to be patient with
the Telegraph, which is delivered to
!u „-?r. s l i ,ter than usual during
8 Se ries. By arrangement
with the Associated Press a special
wire has been run from the baseball
grounds into the Telegraph office,
and a special force of editors has
ben assigned to the work of giving
the fans of Harrisburg the very
latest news of the great baseball
classic. Five telephone operators
are constantly engaged in answer
cn,ftnclalls and il is estimated that
5,000 inquiries at least are answered
e i'ery day through the Telegraph
office before the close of the game.
It Is a big* piece of news for thou
sands of people, and the Telegraph
is beating all the other newspapers
to it in Harrisburg:. Will our wo
men readers be patient, just for this
Braves Field, Boston, Oct. 12.
The Boston Americans are
again the world's baseball cham
pions. Before 42,620 persons, the
largest crowd that ever witness
ed a contest for the highest hon
ors in baseball, the American
League champions defeated the
Brooklyn Nationals this after
noon by a score of 4 to 1 in the
game that decided the world's
series.
Ernest Shore, Boston's big
right hander, held the National
League pennant winners to three
hits, one a scratch. The Bostons
peppered Pfeffer when runners
were on the bags waiting to score.
BROOKLYN
ab. R. H. O. A. E
Myers, c.f 4 0 0 0 0 0
Daubert, lb 4 0 0 8 1 0
Stengel r f 4 0 1 0 0 0
AY heat, l.f 4 0 0 5 0 0
Cutshaw, 2b 3 1 1 2 3 0
Mowrey, 3b 3 0 1 i 31
Olson, ss 3 0 0 2 3 2
Meyers, c 3 0 1 5 3 0
Pfeffer, p 2 0 0 0 0 0
xMerkle 1 0 0 0 0 0
Dell, p. . 0 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 34 1 3 2 4 13 ~~3
xßatted for Pfeffer In eighth.
Passed ball, Cady; wild pitch
Pfeffer; Innings pitched, Pfeffer, 7,'
Dell, 1; Shore, 9; hits, off Pfeffer, 6;
Dell, 1; Shore, 3; sacrifice fly, Gard
ner; time, 1:40; umpires, Connolly,
O Day, Quigley and Dineen.
BOSTON
ab. r. h. o. a. e
Hooper, rf 3 2 1 1 0 0
Janvrin, 2b 4 0 2 0 1 0
Shorten, cf 3 0 1 3 0 0
Hoblitzel, lb 3 0 014 1 0
Lewis, If 3 1 2 1 0 0
Gardner, 3b 2 0 0 0 5 0
Scott, ss 3 0 0 2 3 2
Cady, c 3 1 1 4 0 0
Shore, p 3 0 0 2 4 0
Totals 27 4 7 27 14 "I
Brooklyn 01000000 0 ]
Boston 0 1 2 0 1 0 0 0 x 1
Two base hit, Janvrin. Three base
hit. Lewis. Sacrifice hits, Mowery,
Lewis, Shorten. Struck out, by Pfeffer]
2; Shore, 4; Dell, 0. Base on balls, by
Pfeffer. 2; Shore, 1; Dell, 0. Left on
base, Brooklyn, 4; Boston, 4.
Hitless Inning
First Inning. Myers up. Strike one
Strike two. Shore broke two out
curves over the plate for straight
strikes. Myers fanned on three pitch
ed balls, without offering at any of
them. Daubert up. Ball one. Strike
one. Ball two. Foul, strike two. Cady I
threw out Daubert at first, taking his j
easy roller in front of the plate and '■
throwing him out. Stengel up. Ball I
one. Ball two. Scott took Stengel's
grounder and threw wildly to first, i
Stengel, however, was held at first."!
Wheat up. Ball one. Wheat fouled
out to Hoblitzell. No runs, no hits,
one error.
Second half: Hooper up. Strike
one. Foul, strike two. Ball one. Ball
two. Ball three. Cutshaw threw out
Hooper after the count was three and
two. Janvrin up. uall one. Strike
one. Mowrey threw out Janvrin
Shorten up. Ball one. Ball two. 1
Strike one. Shorten filed to Wheat. !
Xo. runs, no hits, no errors.
Each Get a Run
Second Inning: Cutshaw up. Ball
one. Bail two. Ball three. Cutshaw
walked on four straight balls. Mowrey!
up. Mowrey sacrificed Hoblitzel to
Shore, Cutshaw moving down to sec
ond. Olson up. Gardner threw out
Olson at first. Cutshaw reaching third
Meyers up. Ball one. Cutshaw scored
on a passed ball. Strike one. Ball
two. Scott threw out Meyers at first.
123456789 RHE
Brooklyn BnEIBBEDBEK!] DH9ijj
Boston BDBBDQBIBB EIC3R
111' CAHRJI3K* ' K\T V U EEIC
COPIES '1 CENTS.
I THEY'LL REACH THE GOAL TOMORROW—"GREATER HARRISBURG DAY"
- .s.. Qjfg
To-morrow will be "Greater Harrisl:
of the energetic businessmen of the cit
membership campaign just closed by tl
of members of the Commerce Chamber,
who should have a part in the new mil
ing. at a luncheon to be given in the H,
GREECE FORCED
BY ENTENTE TO
GIVE UP FLEET
Yields Forts and Railway to
Allies on Demand; Italians
Progress
Latest reports on the situation in
Greece are that the Greek authorities
have yielded to the entente demands
for the turning over of virtually the
entire Greek navy and the dismantling
or surrender of forts on the seacoast.
Control by the entente of all material
[Continued on Page 9]
$1,100,000 SHELL
CONTRACT LANDED
Pipe Bending Company Awar
ded Big Job by United States
Government
Again the Harrisburg Pipe and
Pipe Bending company, one of the
city's most important industries, has
won out in competition with other big
concerns. On August 23 the Secre
tary of the Navy invited proposals for
the manufacture oC a large order of
four-inch shells and to-day the Har
risburg company, whose plant is at
State and Cameron streets was award
ed the contract. It provides for 139,-
000 shells at a price of $1,100,000.
[Continued on Page 13]
One run, no hits, rio errors.
Second • Half: Hoblitzel up. Ball
one. Ball two. Strike one. Foul,
strike two. Ball three. PfefCer threw
out Hoblitzel. Lewis up. Strike one.
Strike two. Ball one. Lewis shot
the ball to tho left field fence for a
three-base hit. Wheat played the
ball badly and it bounded over his
head. Gardner up. Lewis scored on
Gardner's sacrifice fly to Wheat.
Wheat's throw to the plate was very
wide. Scott up. Ball one. Scott sent
up a high foul to Mowrey who drop
ped the ball. Foul, rtrike one. Strike
two. Foul. Scott got a foul out to
Meyers. One run, one hit, one error.
Red Sox Get More
Third inning —Pfeffer up. Ball one.
Strike one. Foul, strike two. Pfeffer
struck out, missing a fade-away by a
fool. Myers up. Gardner took Myers'
essy roller and threw him out. Dau
bert up. Shove took Daubert's grounder
and nailed him at first. No runs, no
hits, no errors.
Second half—Cadyur. Oady singled
over Daubert's head. Shore up. Foul,
strike one. Ball one. Meyers almost
ricked Cody off first, bavins called for
a jiitchout. Shore fouled out to Mev
ors try in if to bunt. Hooper up. Ball
one. Ball . two. Ball three. Hooper l
walked, Cady going on to second. Jan- '
vrin up. Strike one. Foul, strike two.
Ball one. Oady scored when Olson
fumbled Janvrin's grounder and then
threw wildly past Cutshaw. Hooper j
HARRISBURG, PA., THURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 12, 1916.
burg Day" by proclamation of Mayor E. . Meals. At >.30 in the morning scores
ty will gather at the Board of Trade building to hear the final report of the
" e - Chamber of Commerce. Directly after this report is heard, a flying" squadron
the Rotary Club and a Volunteer Committee will go out to interview all people
liion-dollar hotel. At noon the squadron will report on the success of the morn
larrisburg: Club.
HARRISBURG RIVER
FRONT UNEQUALLED
FOR BEAUTY—KNOX
Philander C. Knox, Secretary of
State in the Taft cabinet and one of
the most traveled men in public life,
spent two hours strolling along Har
risburg's River Front yesterday after-'
noon and declared that Pennsylvania's
capital had a riverside that could not
be equaled anywhere.
Mr. Knox came to the city to spend
the night on his way to Greensburg
where he opens the Republican cam
paign in Westmoreland county to
night. He left Valley Forge yesterday
morning and decided to stop here in
stead of going on down the Cumber
PLEASURE FIRST!
Y'UNDERSTAND ME
Sleuths Take Day Off to Go to
Fair; 112 Bobberies
Instead of 60 !
"Pleasure before business, you un
| derstand me!"
Apparently this is the slogan at po
! lice headquarters to-day. Ciief of
J Police Wetzel, Mayor Meals, Super
j intendent of Detectives "You Under-
I stand Me" Windsor, Jr., and Detec-
I tive Schelhas, left the Capital City for
i Hakerstown, Md., where a big fair is
holding sway.
Now Mr. Burglarman, if you didn't
grab the big opportunity to-day, you
[Continued on Page 13]
, went from first to third on the play.
; Janvrin was safe at first. Olson got
! two errors on this play. Shorten up.
j Strike one. Strike two. Ball one. Jan
! vrin was out stealing, Meyers to Olson.
| Ball two. Hooper scored on Sliorten's
f I taring single to center. Hoblitzell up.
I . c triko one. Foul strike. Foul. Shorten |
| out stealing, Meyers to Olson. Two
| runs, two hits, two errors.
Not a Hit Yet Off Shore
Fourth Inning:. Stengel up. Ball
one. Strike one. Stengel sent up a;
lofty fly to Shorten. Wheat up. Strike I
j one. Strike two. Ball one. Wheat;
| struck out. Cutshaw up. Ball one. |
(Strike one. Shore took Cutshaw's
i weak tap and threw him out. Shore J
was pitching a superb game, not a hit;
being made off him in the first four i
innings. No runs, no hits, no errors, j
' Second Half: Hoblitzel up. Ball:
! one. Ball two. Ball three. Hoblitzel j
witlked, Pfeffer pitching four straight
balls. Lewis up. Lewis sacrificed, j
1 Daubert to Cutshaw, Hoblitzel going!
; to second. Gardner up. Ball one. |
I Foul, strike one. Cutshaw threw out
Gardner, Hoblitzel going to third. !
Scott up. Strike one. Olson threw)
out Scott. No runs, no hits, no
errors.
Another One For Boston
Fifth Inning: Mowrey up. Strike
one. Strike two. Ball one. Ball two.
Gardner took Mowreys puzzling smash
and threw him out. Olson up. Strike
one. Foul, strike two. Foul. Ball!
one. Ball two. Olson flied to Shorten.
Meyers up. Ball one. Meyers got an
infield single off Shore's glove. It was'
Brooklyn's firs' hit. Pfeffer up. Foul, i
strike one. Gardner threw out Pfeffer.
No runs, one hit, no errors.
Second Half: Cady up. Strike one. 1
Ball one. Olson threw out Cady, I
making a good play on his grounder. I
Shore up. Ball one. Wheat made a!'
dazzling catch of Shore's line drive, i ,
land Valley. He was acompanied by
| Colonel Lewis W. Strayer, of Wash
ington, president of the Gridiron Club
and Immediately after his arrival here
hunted up his old friend, Secretary
i of the Commonwealth Cyrus E. Woods
and called at the executive mansion
to pay his respects to Governor Brum
baugh, who was at Pittsburgh wel
; coming the Tenth Infantry.
The River Front then claimed Mr.
Knox's attention and he walked many
blocks up Front street and discovered
t Continued on Page 13]
BAYONNE LIKE
AN ARMED CAMP
Both Sides in Battle Array
After Woman Is Shot by
Police in Labor War
Bayonne, N. J., Oct. 12. The
streets approaching the Constable
Hook section of this city resembled
to-day an armed camp. Thousands of
strikers from the plants of the Stand
ard Oil Company, Tidewater Oil Com
pany, Vacuum Oil Company, Pacific
Coast Borax Company and the Gen
eral Chemical Company maintained a
"deadline" across the approaches to
those plants. Inside this line, between
the strikers and the oil plants, nearly
[Continued on Page 13]
|lt would have been a three-base hit
J had it got by. Hooper up. Hooper
j singled to right. Janvrin up. Hooper
j scored on Janvrin's two-base hit to
left. The wind carried the ball away
j from Meyers who made a good try for
it. Shorten up. Foul, strike one.
I Strike two. Ball one. Janvrin went
Ito third on a wild pitch. Ball two.
Shorten struck out. One run, two
hits, no errors.
Ty Cobb Gets in Swim
! Sixth Inning:: Meyers up. Meyers
j filed to Shorten. Daubert up. Strike
one. Ball one. Gardner took care of
; Daubert's weak bounder and threw
him out. Stengel up. Ball one. Foul
strike. Foul, strike two. Stengel
popped weakly to Scott. No runs, no
hits, no errors.
| Second Half: Hoblitzel up. Strike'
|one. Strike two. Ball one. Ball two.
Ball three. Hoblitzel went out to
| Daubert unassisted. Lewis up. Ball i
one. Foul, strike one. Lewis singled '
; over Mowrey's head. Gardner up. I
j Ball one. Strike one. Gardner forced !
j Lewis, Olson to Cutshaw. Scott up.
' Ball one. Foul, strike one. Ty Cobb
j caught a foul in the press box. Ball I
i two. Gardner went to second on a!
wild pitch. Mowrey threw out Scott.
No runs, one hit, no errors.
First Clean Hit In Seventh
Seventh inning—Wheat up. Wheat
filed to Hooper. Cutshaw up. Strike
one. Shore tossed out Cutshaw. Mow
rey up. Strike one. Ball one. Mow
rey singled past Scott. It was Brook
lyn's first clean hit. Olson up. Foul,
.strike one. Scott fumbled Olson's
grounder and then threw wildly over
Hoblitzel's head. Mowrey went to
third and Olson to second. It was only
one error for Scott. Myers up. Scott
threw out Myers. No runs, one hit,
one- error.
Second half—Cady up. Strike one.
C'ady fouled out to Mowrey. Shore up
Strike one. 801 l one. Strike two!
— y
— _ /
STOP THE TYPHOID FEVER EPIDEMIC
THE time has come for radical action in the typhoid fever epi
demic now ravaging Harrisburg and vicinity. Typhoid is a
preventable disease and at all costs it must be eradicated.
Blush as we may that such a step is necessary and regardless of our
reputation, for the time being, as a clean and healthful community,
we must get together and wipe out for all time this monster that
is now laying our people low by tens and dozens because some
persons arc violating the laws of health and hygiene. Regard for
the rights of business must not be permitted to stand in the way of
official action. If ice cream is to blame, then close every ice cream
factory to which the finger of suspicion points. If the fault lies in
the milk supply, then let the hand of the law fall heavily upon the
offenders. If there be other causes all should be removed from the
danger zone. This is no time for the consideration of anything but
the health and life of the people as a whole. Nobody knows where
the monster will strike next. It's awful form lurks on the
threshold of every home.
To the safeguarding of the people the whole strength in
dividually and collectively of the city commissioners, the health
authorities, city and State; the medical societies and reputable
dealers in products, the purity of which has been assailed, must be
concentrated. If Dr. Raunick needs help in the way of advice, or
additional assistants, or money with which to meet the situation,
he should be given them without stint. Indeed he MUST have
every weapon available with which to fight the scourge that now
besets us. The people will be content with nothing else. Money
is as nothing compared to life and health and the city's health
board should call upon council for all that it needs. The voters
will stand back of them to the limit.
As for the Telegraph, it is sorry that these radical steps are
necessary, that any business should be injured or that I larrisburg's
fair reputation should be sullied, but it would not be true to the
interests of the people if it longer remained silent. It will serve
to the extent of its ability within its sphere. Immediate and hearty
eo-operation of everybody is essential if the epidemic is to be halted.
We must all get together and work together intelligently. Duty
demands it.
QUICK ACTION
BY COUNCIL IS
PUBLIC DUTY
Special Meeting Will Be Called
to Pass Emergency Measure,
It Is Understood
A special meeting of Council will be
called within the next few days to
pass emergency measures in connec
tion with the typhoid fever epidemic,
giving the city health department ab
solute control of the entire situation,
it was stated in city official circles
to-day.
Action will probably be taken fol
lowing the close of the city health
bureau meeting late this afternoon.
Just what measures will be adopted
were not mentioned, but the milk and
cream supply will probably be gone
[Continued on Page 5]
;HUGHES MAKING
; SHORT SPEECHES
Makes Rear Platform Talks
on Trip Across Ken
tucky
Pikeville, Ky„ Oct. 12.—Charles E.
Hughes spent to-day In Kentucky. His
second appearance as a presidential
candidate in the state was here this
forenoon. His program called for a
day of short speeches, rear platform,
talks and an address at Louisville to
night.
Mr. Hughes spent half an hour here.
It was the longest stop of the day. His
train is due at Louisville at 8 p. m.
and he will leave three hours later for
Springfield, Mo., where he will speak
to-morrow afternoon.
Shore struck out. Hooper up. Cut
shaw threw out Hooper. No runs, no
hits, no errors.
Attendance 42,020
Eighth Inning: Merkle batted in
.place of Pfeffer. Merkle up. Ball
: one. Merkle filed to Lewis who made
a shoe string catch. Meyers up.
J Meyers popped to Shore, trying to
| bunt. Daubert up. Strike one. Ball,
one. Foul, strike two. Scott threv/
out Daubert. total attendance was
I 42,620. No runs, no hits, no errors.
Second Half: Doll went into the
; box for Brooklyn. Janvrin up.
j Janvrin singled to left on the first ball
' pitched. Shorten up. Ball one. Ball
two. Strike one. Shorten sacrificed,
Mowrey to Daubert, Janvrin going to',
j second. Hoblitzel up. Strike
Ball one. Strike two. Ball two. Foul,
i Ball three. Hoblitzel Hied to Wheat.
Lewis up. Ball one. Ball two. Strike
| one. Strike two. Lewis filed to
J Wheat. No runs, one hit., no errors.
Ninth Inning
Ninth Inning: Stengel up. Strike
one. Stengel singled to left. Wheat
up. Strike one. Strike two. Ball
I one. Wheat struck out. Cutshaw up.
! Janvrin threw out Cutshaw, Stengel
j going to second. Mowrey up. Strike*
one. Mowrey popped to Scott. No
runs, one hit, no errors.
THE WEATHER]
For IlarrlnhurK and vlclnityi Fair
ami alliibtl) warmer to-nlKht,
* Willi Inn-rut temperature about
4S deterrent Friday partly cloudy
ami warmer.
For HaNtrrn renimylvanla i Fair to
il IK M i warmer In northern uml
wextrrn portion*! Friday partly
cloudy and warmer; itentle to
moderate wlndx, becoming aoutb- i
cant and south.
TROOPS' HEALTH IMPROVING
Washington, D. C.. Oct. 12.—Health
of national guard and regular army
troops on the Mexican border showed
an improvement for the week ending
October 7 over the previous week. A
report made public to-day by the War
Department gave the sick of the militia
as 1.91 per cent., with 3 deaths. The
regulars reported 3.2 3 per cent, sick,
with 5 deaths.
?
? STATE STREET; PLAN TO V.IDEN STREES
1 At the conference this afternoon at the Harvisburg |
9 Club eihbers of the City Planning Commission, and
1 the S'.attc Capitol Extension Commission, Sta*c Treasurer
* Young representing the Board of Public Grounds and
I Buildings, end Governor Brumbaugh, it was decided that '
i the main approach to the Capitol grounds and b '
1 the cart should be by subway or viaduct at State street,
i It was also decided that the. question of widening the •'
T street. about the Capitol grounds, including Walnut, Third
I and North streets, shall be determined by experts to be 1
y retained by the city and the State. The city will retain
f Warren 11. Manning, the consulting engineer who has had I
so- much to do with the city's improvement program The
■ Board of Grounds and Buildings will immediately engage ■
V a noted engineer to co-operate with Mr. Manning.
I Governor Brumbaugh announced that he is busy pre- J
9 paring plans to be laid before the Legislature .so that the
; work of landscaping and the whole general Capitol ex- "i
i '
tension scheme can be acted upon as soon as possible after I
ithe body meets for the 1917 session. •
It was further announced that the State, through the I
Attorney General's Department and otherwise would resist J
any attempt to erect a bridge at Walnut street.
I
TEUTONS PURSUING RUMANIANS •' 1
Berlin, Oct- 12. via London.—Teuton ttoops ire pur
suing the Rumanian forces un the whole extern Transyl-j
* *<annn front, says the offici-)l . me.-- i5.;-ued. to lay by
the German army headquarters staff. The second Rumanian,
* the announcement adds, has been driven back into the
frontier positions
.
DR. DIXON INSPECTS AGAIN
I
i Commissioner of Health D;xon this afternoon made a
second inspection of the Hershey Creamery Company ice
cream plant to 6ee if orders for sanitary changes had been i
complied with.
I
! MARRIAGE LICENSES .
?
Itoy David Moll nnil Uladri Huiilry, Mnryavllle.
| Carl Clrmaon Bruaur and Caroline Ellubcth Grovt, city. g
I I 1 muflfi
CITY EDITION
18 PAGES
STATE AND CITY
PLANNERS CONFER
ON PARK PROBLEM
Governor Host at Luncheon;
Capitol Zone Treatment
Discussed
OPPOSE WALNUT BRIDGE
Powell, Young and Chief Exe
cutive Express Views to City
Planning Commission
Things are moving rapidly In the
direction of the Greater Harrisburg
which all loyal citizens are helping to
bring about.
To-day at a luncheon to which Gov
ernor Brumbaugh had Invited the
members of the Hoard of Public
Grounds and Buildings, the City Plan
ning Commission and the Capitol
Park Extension Commission the final
treatment of the Capitol Park area
was discussed in detail. Upon the
walls of the room where the luncheon
was served were maps and plana
from the office of the City Planning
Commission showing the area which
will be subject to landscape treat
ment under the plans now being con
sidered.
Guests of the Governor included
[Continued o n Paso IS]
20,000 Fraudulent Entries
on Registration Books
Detroit Investigators Find
Detroit! Mich., Oct. 12.—Investiga
tion was being continued to-dav into
alleged irregularities in the "recent
registration of voters here. The elec
tion commission, following a report
made by Prosecuting Attorney Charles
It. Jasnowski, has ordered a complete
checking up of the 130,000 or moro
names written upon the latest regis
tration books.
The prosecuting attorney, who mado
an investigation of charges of irregu
larities. in presenting his report ex
pressed the belief that more than
20,000 fraudulent entries were made
upon the books. With his report ha
handed in resignations from thirty
nine precinct officials. John E. Kin
nane. United States attorney for the
eastern district of Michigan, has re
ceived permission from Washington,
it Is understood, to supervise the No
vember elections in Detroit should he
deem such action warranted.
