(
CUES IDENT S OFF
ISEItEA COLLEGE
HE HE A KY
COMP
I CE
The citizen
( i
Devoted to tlie Interests of tlie lh&oxritan. 3?eo;ple,
BEREA PUBLISHING CO.
(INTO RPOH ATftl
WM. a FROST. tmCHJ
C. H. WKKTENBERCCII. M te Um
Knowledge it power and the
wiy to keep up with modern
knowledge it to read a food
newapapar.
r. O. BOWMAN, I
rM Mr fnm uftrr w Hfrm, Iff., m m4
Vol. XVIII.
Five OnU a Opr.
BEREA, MADISON COUNTY. KENTUCKY. OCTORKn 12, I9ln.
One Dollar a Tear
No. is.
Forward Presbyterians!
The Presbyterian General Assembly has decided in
future to ordain no man for the ministry who uses to
bacco. The old men who are enslaved by the weed may still
chew the cud or burn incense to their idol, but the young,
on-coming preachers must all be free menl
And why should not EVERY preacher be free?
And why should not every Christian be free?
And why should not every man be free?
Crackerism
There is still too much crackerism in the South.
The Cracker thinks, or pretends to think, that he is
better than other folks. And in particular he is "down
on" people from other places.
When a new comer settles in any Western State he
is taken right in by the old settlers and made welcome;
but when a man from outside comes into a neighborhood
of crackers they all combine to keep him down, and shut
him out.
Highways Make Prosperity
The Bible says: "No man liveth to himself.' A big
share of the joy and profit of life comes from our neigh
bors. There are too many neighbors in a city, but there
are too few neighbors in the country. A good road
makes it possible to see more neighbors, to trade with
them, and to have the good of neighborliness.
The great Dixie Highway, running from Chicago
through Cincinnati, Berea, Knoxville and Atlanta to
Florida, will do more for the country and the people who
live in the country than any of us realize today.
The chief officers of the Dixie Highway Association,
President Allison, A. F. Sanford, of the Knoxville Journal
and Tribune, Richard Hardy, of Chattanooga, passed
through Berea from the south last week. They found
that rvery mountain county has gone into the road build
ing business. Those that are not on the Dixie Highway
will make connections with it. There is only one break
where the roads of Rockcastle and Laurel counties fail
to come together. If this break is bridged we shall have
through connection from the northwest to Florida. Hurrah!
II'MIR OWN STATE
Needs of the stad, from the stand
ioiiit of ilnanrcs, are occupying
time of the Kentucky banker in an
nual Reunion at I'aducall. Tliey were
addressed tiy (iovernor Stanley on
Tuesday.
The Kentucky guardsmen march
ing from El Paso to Ft Sclden are
standing up splendidly tinder the
regular army test. Thursday night
the brigade enrniiied only twenty
nine miles from it destination.
Tentative plana for a whirlwind
campaign through the Dig Sandy
Valley on October 'M by United
hiatus Senator James were made by
Chairman Rouse, of the State speak
ers' bureau. x
EiUU Fiscal Coart
The regular October term of the
Estill Fiscal Court adjourned last
week after a session of only two
days in which only routine matter
were taken up. The number and
amount of claims presented and al
lowed show the County in an un-
COHTERTS
FACE V Editorials; Forward Pres
byterians! Crackerism; High
ways Make prosperity. Ken
tucky Hall Opening. Our Own
State News. U. S. News.
World News.
PAGE 2. Departmental Columns.
PAGE 3.
Hack
cles.
PAGE 4.
PAGE S.
PAGE I.
Serial: Then I'll Come
to You." Fashion Arti-
Locals.
Local Newa Articles.
Mountain Agriculture:
Cincinnati Markets. Six Steam.
era are Torpedoed. Automobile
Hhow. Home Department: Jel
ly As It Should He. For Young
Folks.
PAGE 7. International Sunday
School Lesson. What Herea
Owes to the Mountains. What
Kentucky Owes Herea. To the
Vocational 0 iris. Loyally to the
Institution.
PAGE I. Eastern Kentucky Newa
Letters,
As the election approaches it
would lie well for our local voters
to re-read the article by our present
County Judge, J. (1. liuxter, "A Word
as to Local Affairs" in the issue of
September H, page 5. It I always
safe to continue a good man in ofllce
regardless of his party sftlliution.
usually prosperous condition.
Laurel County School Fair a Great
Success
laurel County surprised herself
during the Farmers Chautautpia and
School Fair. I'nder the efficient
leadership and rooperution of Coun
ty SuH'rintendent J. M. Feltuer and
County Agent Samuel Morgan this
year's work completely eclipsed
that of last year. Interesting dis
cussions on agriculture, stock rais
ing, etc, were gien. The exhibits
from the farm rould not be excelled
in any other part of the Slate. There
were 11 school children present
who followed in the procession led
by the V. C. T. U. as they marched
around the fair ground track.
Over a Million Dollars Being Spsnt
on Eastarn Branch of the Dix
ie Highway
As the preliminary inspector
passed over the Dixie Highway from
Knoxville to Lexington last week
they found over one million dollar
worth of road work under construc
tion through the difficult mountain
ous section of Tennessee and Ken
tucky. They were greatly encour
aged over the line, work done and
(Continued on Page Eight)
Lookout for the prize list of the
Herea Corn Show and Fair next
week. The copy came in too late
for this issue whichwe regret.
We rail particular attention to the
opening exercises of Kentucky Hall,
on this page and the line speeches
made on that occasion recorded on
page twit and seven of this issue,
lon't you wish you could have been
there? The Citizen always notes
the best things that happen.
Many speak highly of our present
serial "Then I'll Come Back to You."
w are you enjoying it?
The Departmental columns on
page two are getting better each is
sue; if you have not noticed this
read the page carefully this week.
Our correspondent for page
eight should 'not let their interest
lag as these letters are read far and
wide. Ha a little iniore dilligeiil
and prompt and keep up the good
name of this page.
"I didn't know my subscription
was so nearly expired. I want The
CitUen as I have taken it ever since
it was published; so would be lost
without it "
"
M .J a tow- -
A
Kentucky Hall Opening
Remarka of President Frost, Mrs Govenor Yeager, Miss Julia Nicholf
Miss Rathe rine Boweraox, Honorable Jackson Morris,
Prof. Francis O. Clark.
Kentucky Hall was occupied by
young lady students at the begin
ning of the term, although the build
ing was not quite finished. The
heating apparatus has still to be in
stalled, the balustrades and the
stairs to be finished and the door
knobs put on. Besides this, the fur
niture has still to be installed in the
public rooms.
But the building stands in its.com
plete beauty. It is of the colonial
type of architecture and is designed
to accommodate one hundred young
women. On each floor there is a
parlor with fireplace which will bo
the social center for the girls living
in that story. Each floor has also
its bath room with hot and cold
water and shower baths. There is
an elevator for trunks and abund
ant place for sbwage of trunks in the
attic.
Each room has two small closets,
two rot beds, two small study tables,
book shelves and a dresser and glass,
making perfect conditions for the
study and life of the student girls.
This building belongs to the young
women of the Vocational Depart
ment. Because of the great crowd
of students the upper story will be
occupied by Academy girls for the
present.
In the basemtmt of this building
are two dining-rooms, each capable
of holding two hundred boarders, so
that students of the Vocational De
partment will come from other dor
mitories to this place for their meals
and the "Big Room" on the first floor
U. S, HEWS
The Dairymen's League Thursday
refused the offered advance in price
of the New York distributors unless
made on a six mouths basis.
Maj. Gen. Gocthals, Commissioner
E. F- Clark, of the Interstate Com
merce Commission, and George Rub
lee have been selected as members
of the board created by Congress to
investigate the railroad eight-hour
law.
The presence of a submarine of
undetermined nationality off Tybee
Bar, below Savannah, Ga was re
ported to the custom bouse ofllcials
and the British consulate at the
Georgia port. No American under
sea boats were in the waters, it was
oftlcially declared in Washington.
TO ISSUE FARM LOAN PRIMER
Otvimmint to Explain Workings f
Rural Credit Law In Book.
Washington. Oct. 10. The Interest
of the American farmer In the work
ing of tb new rural credits act has
waiod so keen that the farm loaa
board at Washington ta lltitmlly
swamped with Inquiries as to detail
of tha now law. More than 100.000 In
tuliie already hava been received.
To meet this demand tha farm loaa
board I preparing a farm loan primer.
Thl book, which will bo available for
wld distribution, will tell In simple
laaguat all about the rural credit
system. It will bo compiled In que
Uoa and aniwer form, tha auestlon
being thoso which the farm loan board
discovered were most asked by th
farmer on It recent transcontinental
tour. Th book la expected to be oil
th pro In about two week.
V f I I
I a
i i i
tKNTL'CKY AND TAU'OTT IIAI.LS
Now bring erected lor Wonim' bormlmrln
will be a convenient social .center
for the entire Vocational Depart
ment. ,
The formal opening exercises be
gan with a luncheon served in the
south dining-room of Kentucky Hall
for the Vocational Faculty and in
vited guests, principally persons
who had contributed toward the
erection of the building. The bless
ing was asked by Professor Knight,
and after the bountiful repast was
finished President Frost made a
brief statement' regarding the build
ing the need which had existed for
more accommodations for young
women, the importance of the Vo
cational Department, the plan of the
building itself and the effort which
was being made to secure the money
necessary from Kentucky donors.
The entire cost of the building, in
cluding the dining-rooms and the
model kitchen adjacent, is about
?.r0,o00, and something more than
$20,000 has already been secured.
He was followed by Mrs. Oovernor
Yesger, who expressed her great ad
miration for the building itself and
for the spirit of the school as she
felt it in meeting the students and
teachers.
Miss Niehol, the Director of Home
Science, spoke of the significance of
the building as the school home for
Vocational girls, and Miss Bowersox,
Dean of Women, spoke of the influ
ence which the building should have
in countless homes scattered thru
the mountains.
The faculty and guests then pass-
NINE VESSELS
REPORTED SUNK
22C Persons Rascusd From
Torpsdoed Ships.
GKE BOAT'S CREW UISS1N6
Newport, R. I., Oct 10. Following
a report received her that tans Brit
ish cruiser had been sunk by Oermaa
ubmarln operating on tha American
coast, all th United 8tate torsade
boat destroyer tatlond here ar
eald to hay been ordered out to in
veettgate. Rear-Admiral Albert Olaave. oom
aaander of th destroyer flotilla, an
aooacod that he bad obtain ed th
Mine of aoproalmatoly 110 person.
Including thirty-three womea and tea
children, rescued from flv of th lt
steamer knowa to bav hewn tor
pedoed by a German submarine. This
list did not take Into account th erw
of th British steamer Ktngatoa. which
I Mill missing.
All hand had been saved, th ad
miral aald, from the learner Weet
Point, Btrathden. DloomersdlJk.Cbri
tiaa Knudson and Stephano. th latter
a pauonger ship plying between New
York and St. John. Newfoundland.
Several of the torpedo kuat de
stroyer reported that they were still
searching for the Kliimton crew,
supposed to be adrift in lifeboat south
ot Nanuckot HrhMhlit. Ihirln( th
day destroyer were cruising within a
radlu of thirty ml'c of the lightship
In the hope of picking up the missing
boat.
Rear Admiral Knight reported that,
although tha American destroyer
Flotilla was continuing It search for
th missing orew of th British steam-
1 V, 'Ir'jj,
m rr. w
P
-
- -,nia. The result of the fighting in
ed upstairs to the Big Room where this region changes from day to day.
Vocational girls of the Vestal ia So-j
ciety performed a little march and1 James Brice has given to the Eng.
the ceremony of lighting the fire in lish people during the week a most
the great llreplare. The visitors important message. He protest
then inspected the building, story against the spirit of hatred that
by story, and were divided into sev-' would sdek to eontinue the war
oral companies to visit the other after a peace is reached in the form
buildings of the Institution, particu- of a trade contest. He raises the
larly the Ladies Hall, hospital, question of a peace league, and looks
printing ofllce, dairy barn, wood- to the United Spates to play a lead
work, fireside industries, executive ing part in such a movement. Can
offices, training school and library, we rise to the emergency?
At 3:50 p.m. the entire student -body
with the faculties of the sev- The British war office has caused
eral departments 'and invited guests much rejoicing in England by lift
gathered in the great Chapel where ing the extreme censorship which
five young men, representing the has prevailed in regard to the news
five departments, spoke with admir- which are given the people from
able force and feeling: Leonard U. the field of war. The change in pol
Robinson, "What Berea Owes to ley followed the beginning of her
the Mountains"; Homer H. Lewis, great drive in northern France. She
"What Kentucky Owes Berea"; even permits the taking of moving
Raleigh V. Trosper, "To the Voca- pictures on the field of battle.
tional Girls"; Clyde Evans, "Loyal-j
ty to the Institution." These , Count Bernstorff, the German am
speeches appear on page 7 of this bassador, has returned to his post
issue. William Copely, "What the in the United States, sjnd our own
Young Men Owe the Young Women ambassador to Germany, Mr. Gerard,
of Berea," found on' page 2 of this has come home, Varioua specula
paper, tions have been made as to the com-
The Honorable Jackson Morris, of in? of these men and the rumor Is
Pineville, in behalf of the donors, ' abroad that there will be an effort
paid a noble tribute to the work to induce the United States to be
which Berea is doing for the entire in a movement for peace. But of
mountain region, and Prof. Francis this there is no confirmation as yeL
O. Clark, Dean of the Vocational De- J
partment, gave the concluding words On Saturday a German submarine
closing exercises which will long be unexpectedly appeared in port at
remembered bv every Dersnn who Newport, delivered a message for
I had a share in the festivities of this the German ambassador and depart
1 great day. 'ed so quickly and quietly that ahe
Kentucky Hall is built to stand for was out to sea again before the coin
ages, its white dome looking like a mandera of our war vessels, be
younger sister of the Chapel dome, tween which she wound her way.
nnd both lifting our eyes toward wer aware of what was taking
hopeful and higher things for all the place,
mountains. I
( The resignation of the Japanese x
prime minister. Count Okuma, awm
rx Kingston, he thought It lik.ly thy ken, , inienst in the futur of
had been picked up that nation. The age of the Count
bound merchantman, which had taken ,. . . ,
them out to ea without reporting b w" nom,nal reason given, but
oause or fear that us or hr wirele " is believed to mean the entrance
would endanger her. . on more aggressive policy under
Although the captain of the light- the lead of a younger man. The
hip at Boston reasserted that three ', choice of Count Terauchi as a suc
ubmarlnes had sunk nine steamer. eessor lends support to this idea,
th name of three of the destroyed
"0t ,Tn Hr'w 0tlob,,r 21 nd 22 are to be ob
Nelther had any ot the ub rle been .
po.ltlT.ly identified, although opinion "erved " rf,ief yg for the SUffer
wa almost unanlmou. among nava.:'" Armenians who are acattered
and shipping men that on of them 1 round in Turkey. Persia and Pales
wa th U-53, which called at Newport, ' tine, to the number of over a million.
and passenger landed from the Red 1 In many places they are starving,
Cross liner stephano quoted member land in others sustain life by eating
of th crw of that atamr as having Krag8i Btray dogs or olhep .ninj,,
bn mph.tlc In their .ttment. ;The rn ment has grant.
Sour. i:rnk -? vr' 10
Early In the day .ever.1 of th flet r,l'' ,und,'r 8ome limiUtloni,
or United State de.troyer which j n(l allies have agreed to raise
went to th rescue ot th men, women the blockade for a similar purpose,
and children t afloat In open boat.
brought Into Newport th pangr The Joint Commission appointed
and crew of the Stephano. They alio , to consider the border question be
gav over to th welcoming car of th 'tween the United States and Mexicd
officers or th naval training ", has been in conference with lead-
.l.v.. j . . n-i.
l7BB Uiri BJ ouniuuous v w waaa vg I
th Dutch steamer BloomeradUk and
Norwegian Christian Knudsen.
Th warship then returned to as
sist In th search for other boat.
The calmness of th sea, which
made easy th transfer of passenger
and crews throughout th period or
th submarine operation, continued.
Th temperature also was moderate.
Under these condition It wa realised
that aesmen adrift In open boat would
suffer little discomfort.
Th movement of three British
crulsors, which arrived In th vicinity
of th raids werw not further report
ed. It wa supposed tbey were mak
ing a thorough sweep of waters In
which th German had, ba active
In th hop of capturing or linking
on of th submarine.
A radiogram from th Nantucket
lightship at noon said nothing had
beea seen of any submarine in th
daylight.
WORLD NEWS
The English and the French have
made further gains on the Western
frontier in the region of the Somme
during the week. They have gained
in all about a mile, and advanced
closer to the Bapaume and Peronae,
which are the goals of their efforts.
Heavy fighting fa reported on the
eastern frontier around Lemborg
which the Russians wish to take by
Christmas If possible. All four tinea
of approach have the scenes of ac
tivity but definite results have aot
yet been secured.
In the Balkan field., the German
continue to drive the Rumanian
back across Transylvania, but in the
Dobruja, the strip of territory along
the mouth of the Danube, the Ruma
nians have pushed back the strong
German army which has been mak
ing this the main attack on Ruma-
! ing mining men of
mining men of the United
States during the week, with the
I ) impose of deciding on an equitable
rate of taxation. An agreement on
this aubject will aid in setting in
operation the mining properties and
thus give employment to Mexican
labor.
TOWING BURNING TCAKCR.
Old Point Comfort, Va. Radio mes
sage received her from th coast
guard cutler Onondaga said two tug
ar towing th burning Ward Lin
stumer Antllla to Hampton Road
and that th passenger and crew,
which took to th small boats 120
miles off Tap Henry, ar aboard th
cutter, which I convoying th tow.
Th messag also asked that another
tug be seut out to assist la flghting
the lire in th Antllla cargo ot lum
ber and sugar.
7
