t Tvn xTtur ctWTir.Q VHT, T A'TTT.
BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1916.
NUMBER 15.
501 WIN 4TH
BAME 01- bbKlhb
(5 to 2 Americans Now
i c r. (li
i tine uttiiii: ii win nt-
Championship.
r.nnliipr tlnkiv imtlier Home
Searing; yi'mi Men Abend of
11 Ulll.lC III HostOll To-dii).
The Box Score.
BOSTON.
ah r hh io n v
. I I 2 " n
..: I o I - l
er, r. f
III -u
1 f
iler, .it
S s
Kan. t,
oi, )
it, . f
'.igl'
l.ll ll
or
0, .
1'
CI 7.
I't'll 1 1 1 1 allil 11,1.11 III , " .1 m
ntti' 1 fnl ( 1iC1, 111 SCVCIltll.
Ulgs ,. i a u i o ,i
III ..'I .i 0 1 1 II I 0 0 u
Hlj ii . ii II 0 0 0 0 (I 'J J
ii base n's Lewis, Putshaw, ll.it-
iaroncr sunon nase, nooper; s.-
Iiit i .iM'lK.iii. Gardner; left m
Boston ., Brooklyn 7: lirst base
....... HAulfin 1 1 1-,,I11 Vll I C VOj
..II.. ..ir I ..-.1 1 tnriinniil
I its and earned runs, nlf
ard . hits, 1 inn in nine innings;
.nrf iirtr ;i nun. I run:, ill lull 111-
off Cheney, -1 hits, 1 run in th-eo
.;.- nil iv n hi i i a mi, ii" ttm.- in
innings, struck mil, liv Len'i-
liy Mnrqtiaril ,1, by Cheney Ui
er 'A w Irl II tell. I. count u: pass" 1
Meyers riiipircs. i t t ri t t ,1k-
ill IlllPVn, Willi:-1 1 , i ii n 1. 1. . ,
Hold, Connolly. Time,
lowed li it t live liltH In nine innings,
struck out throe, gave four liases on
halls and nuiln one wild plteli lion
ten eolleeteil Ion lilts off Btonklyn's
three pitchers for a total of fifteen
liases, while Hie Bronklvns olitalned
live lilts for right liases. limn."'!' nia.le
the only liase steal of the day and the
nod hox used nut nine players to the
homo club's fifteen.
Weather eondltlons woin the best of
the series to date. II was a perfect In
dian summer day with a clear sky and j ist
the. suggestion of a south wind. Not
withstanding the weather nnd Btnoklvna
victory of the pi eroding day, the stands
showed many vacant seats although the
attendance was. a trllle linger than on
Tuesday. The ofllelal figures showed tn.it
21.00.: spectators were pieseiit and that tho
leeeopts wein $72,M0. Of this sum Hie
playerH will receive S'lii.KKi.fiJ; each
club 13,111. I'll and the national eouimls.tion
S7.2M.
The total llgures for the four names M
d.ite aie as follows:
At lendance, 120,230.
lleeolpts, f301,717."i.
Philters' shaio, S1 r2 'i7. ;
Kuril club's' sbaie. .v.,!ii U.K.
National commls: inn's sl.aie. 3n,171.7.".
The plnyois" i-hnie of (lie t eo Ipts lor
the first four rallies will be divided or n
basis of Oil per rent, tn the winner of tb:
sr rle" and l per com. to the loser, which
will give !i7.7r,t;.t.- to lie dlvldi d among tin;
SMALLEST WHEAT
CROPS SINGE 14
Some Interesting Knowledge
Contained in Government's
October Crop Report.
f 4 e l . ii
. i ;i 1 'J , 'i o
4 2 2 0 u u
, 3 l 1 1 o
4 o n :t J c
3 o 2 :, i c
:s o u o l o
33 ti l'J -7 l'J 1
1? lion i bYX,
ab r bh po a o
f 4 1 1 0 v l
f I 1 1 1 a .i
:i 0 1 'J i I
4 0 1 0 I) 1
I a 1 3
3 0 0 14 0
H 0 0 1! J n
I! 0 a i. 0
0 0 0 (I 0 u
p 1 0 0 II 2 0
1 0 a 0 I. ' i
0 0 0 II II
1 0 (I 0 il (I
n o o a i J
1 (I (I 0 0 o
. 32 2 r. 27 1 1 4
moinbots of the wltinlim
tor I In Ini.liiR ohi'i playeri-
lnb. Ji?j. Willi
INSTANTLY KILLED
WHEN HORSE BOLTS
Mrs. Gustave Suiham, 70, Struck
on Head Daughter Seri
ously Injured.
FIND NO CHARGE '
ItnAIUCT ACQUIS fiMV
tun w ul n i
President Wilson and Sec. Lan
sing Decide U-Boat Prom
ises Are Intact.
STILL INVESTIGATING.
Mime Doubt nu Thnt KIllUHtoutau
W'lls SuliU No More ."Nev of I
MiiiH I'olpone iiiMiii;H,
On lloaid l'teMdenl W.'so.i's .Special j
llariisliurc, Pa., Oct. II. -As a icsult i f
! the conferoiu'e last niKht and early te
I day Pioslilent Wilson ami Soctetaiy l.iin
! sIiik at Loin; Urancli, N. .1 . it was stated
j authoritatively to-niht that no evldenej
of the bic'ikiiif; of Oernuin primii-o. lo
j the I'liitod Slates had boon dlM'oered in
'connection with the subinai inc activities
oTf the American coast lsi Sunday, lii.t
that the Ameilcan mivei iiniem will on-
lliine Its Investigations.
' Tlie nnl diioct eominent on the run
feience obtainable from nftloial soui-i os
I to-nlKht was that every aiiKle of the .Mib-
maiine situation had ben discussed .rid
that new pioblems had loon none Into
thoroughly.
President Wilson was on bis way m
Indianapolis to-ulKht on his second inva
sion of tlie middle West slncu the cam
IiaiKU oiiencd.
Wnshliictnii, Oct. 10. With the price
nf flour hli;her than It has been In many
years, Intel est In tlie government's
October crop report, issued to-day, cen
tered In the foieenst of this year's wheat
piodiirtlon which Is the smallest since
l!M. The crop of winter wheat is :nn.( i.iM
bushels smaller than last year nnd the
pioductlon of sprlni; wheat probably will
be lower by morn than that quantity
and the smallest crop in tlie last twenty
one years. With a carry-over of ap
proximately IfiiVWVViO bushels from Inst
voar's rccord-brcaklm,' nop of l,oll,fA"i,iiu
bushels, amlcnltuie department officials
believed this year's shot I i ron would be
suiriclent to meet domestic requirements
and k live about leil.eOn.fl ) bushels avail
able foi export to help supply to heavy
demands of the wairlin: IJuropean na
tions. A significant feature of the grain
n ub- this year Is the impot tation of
v beat fiom AiKentlna. a carKO of which
I., now on Its May to this country.
I Mher ceieal ciops also sllffi red from
tlie adverse conditions of the Past suni-
nii r and smaller pi oiiucnoii lias resimeu
In most crops White potatoes particularly
will be short, the nop this year beim;
(he smallest In the last live yeais.
Tolmeio. hav and rice, however, prf.iilisc
ici-oid crops this year.
Tim government's forecasts of produc
tion of the principal crops, based on .1 I
canvass niinli- Octooer l ny Its agents
and ciirrevnoinleiits tbroiiKhoiit the toun-
try, together witli foierasts made fionii
tlie September 1 canvass follow: I
Spring wnoat. l".L','S1.o0 bushels. '
All wheat. fiH7,"i7."Hn liusliels.
Corn. i'.'lT.Kl-.C1" bushels.
Outs, lv2.o bushels.
Harb'V. l1:',.;,w,'0'i bushels.
P.nckwheal, 13.94J.""'') bushels.
White potatoes. XViiW.fiOO bushels.
Sweet potatoes, fIT.71H.WV bushels,
rlax, IT,. 111.011 bushels.
P.ii e. "ti.K'i.ifn bushels.
Tobacco. 1,2112.077,01 1 pounds.
lVars. la.Uriiio bushels
Apples. f;.lfi!i.ifO barrels.
Sntar beets. T.r.IO.OO tons.
Kafirs, 7S.inri,in0 liusliels.
I'e.'ins, 0.02I.W bushels.
Sprlligwheat : Indicated acre yield X.r,
bushels, compared with 11.2 last year nnd
i:!.:i the irmO-1.1 average.
Coin: Condition 71..' per cent, or a nor
mal, compared with 71. r, last month, and
77.0 the ten year average. Indicated yield
2X. bushels, compaied with '.2 last year
and 2Ti.O the IW-13 average.
Oats: Indicated acr.e yield 30.H biisbe.r
compared with H7.S last year nnd .fi. the
10r;i-n aveiage.
Parley: Indicated acre yield 23.7 h'l'll
els, ennipared with .T.'.O last year nnd "4.3,
the 1W-1H averaco.
Hr.ckwlient: Condition G7 per cent, of a
normal, compared witli 7S.S last month
and M.o the .tenrjear .a,v.o,mK.q. Jntlicaijo.
HAPPENINGS
of Mrs. Snnford Thursday, funds wcro
raised for tho benefit of the Congrega
tional Church .Mr. and .Mrs. j-cier "''.q
nrds spent several days Inst week V
IN VERMONT
Local Items of Interest from
All Parts of the Green
Mountain State.
Hanlwlrk, Oct. 10. -.Mrs. Oustiivo ,3i.l
ham, iiyod about "n yeaiH, was Instantly
killed this afternoon when thrown from
her carriage Willi her daughter, Mrs.
Harold Dodge, she was dilvlng to tins
village from West Woodbury. Mrs. Sui
ham struck on her head and shoiildcis
and was dead when help reached her.
The accident occurred on what .s
known as the ltnffaln road. They wei.!
coming down a hill when the horse bo
came frightened, probably at the whit
tle of a llaidwlck-Woodbnry train wlilrh
wns stopping at the crossing lo talte
water. Tho train i few heard a set earn anil
several nien tushing up tlie bill found
Mrs. Suiham dead. Tho daughter Has
seilouslj Injured and was unconscious tor
u time. Mrs Dodge was unable to glv.)
an account of bow the accident occur-ed.
It is thought that wbeii Hie burse hulled
the cari'lai.e struck n lock. Mis Hullia'ii
leafs a husband, a son and two daughters.
THE NEWS HY COUNTIES.
from (be Island In Mir I, like to tin
l'Mooiisle, liiim- Otter Creek and
by the Mioroi of White IUcr.
ADDISON.
York Oct. 11. The Hoston Amer-
,mlM, ..nrx.nM .Ii., ,1 I J
loiishln hero this afternoon when
efentod the Brooklyn Nationals, ;
n the fourth game of tlie sores,
now stands 3 to 1 in lloston's favoi.
now the conflict will be lonewod at
Field, Hoston, whole the tilth
hat the Red Sox hope will be th-
g game win oe piayeii neiore woai.
a record crowd. Columbus .lav
licntions point to an cinjimons a'
re.
manner In which the Hostons tee
Brooklyn team hero this aflir-
eft no doubt as to their Intention
ntr tbo sei'lpM ii s noleklv ns Tiosii1 lp.
' Dutch'' Leonard spotted the Na
two r 11 in the opening inning.
lean ma'rs iiinm than made np
noiea in imp seeoiio session rn l
n the van refused to permit their
tness In the matter is shown hy
rt tha' to-day wns the llrsi time
bo "rst game against the Phllale'-
niioiiuis in inn series oi : 1.1 ini.r
d Sox have won fiom their rlvuln
largin of moro than one run.
contest, although featured by sev-
nsaiionai piays, inn not use much
tho average of a tegular season
Once Leonard swung Into form,
ooklyn batters found it impossible
of tho steady twirling of the
Cnl., boxman, who was tlnely
ted, both on the offense and de-
by his teammates. Long, slashing
pped off the bats of the American
4. ... '.' , Hhllllll tllU III'
of Mrooklyn's pitchers, while
Id catches, stops and throws
tho way easy for Leonard.
Brooklyn club gave Its suppoiters
hopes of repeating the victory of
ly wnen two runs were put over
111 st inning on Johnston's triple,
single, a base on halls and an
ny janvrin, wno in Ills eagerness
Myers at the pinto fumbled Cut
grounder Bubo Marnuard, Man
Robinsons selection for a second
rntriKt ihn Ponton Itillnpo ti'rA
Hod Sox In tho flist Inning, but
delivery when be hnn-imoroil out
o run, Ills second In two days, with
i mo oases, in inc succeeding ses-
ii iiiii .i liuuuiH ii. um ngni nolo
Gardner then cleaned up with
a drl'o to deep center.
Red Sox added another tally In
I on MannKer Carrlgnn's single
ier was added In the fourth when
,..l.n .Ali,n,l Mn rnnti r1 l . U
i, ..ll'l ivjiiih. II .'.I.. ,11. . , , inn
ier nciit'i nun imnen iur uie lor
passeu lioopri, ini niuiii eicuiiiiu
'ored on Hob'ltv.oU's doublo. The
on nf thn irnmo camo In tho sov
Janvrin, second up, forced Hoop
in had slnKlod, went to second on
or s saci llicc unu etui ni wuen
tzel Krounfled to unoney, wnoso
to first hit tho runner.
ney was soon afterward replaced
an TUicltor, one of tho greatest
paws when nt tho holh'ht of his
Thus It cnino aliout that both
eteraii pitcner s auioiiion m nmn
.. 1 II.. ..lA.. nvtil flu. Tli.lu'
to seo hlin In that position was
led
ker, pitching with Kreat dollbor
sa nn,l tulilp RWPPIlinir CLirVOH
th Bostonlann scoreless to til
In llr two Innings ho held com
ho fain rd tin i i of the six bat
that "arrd h u ai d a'lownl but
It
the four t lllors i i th. game
irds woik wmh tho best. II' til
: A meeting of the C .1 Pill Pomona
lOrange was hold with (iir.ud View
Orange of Addison October 1. State
.Master W. X. Cody and County Agent
ICnrrlgan wore present. Mr. Carrlgan
.made remarks telatlve to the corn show
I in be held nt Mbldlobiiry this wrc!:. A
'collection of $20 lor the corn show was
I contributed by the members. The fol
lowing program wns carried out: Oreet
llngs, Htissoll II. Smith, muster of Grand
I View Orange; response, Allen ,1. I. arrow,
Minster of Vergennes Orangr; vocnl solo,
Mrs. Boardnnin; discussion, "Is Orange
Work liocoiulng Mlxid With Politics?"
recitation. Miss Mildred! Html; discus
sion, "What Would Happen If Hvery
Fanner Belonged to the Orange"; piano
duel, Mrs. Ilrlsto) and Mis. .Inmes; reel
tntinn, Mm. N'oonan. Itesolutlotis wore
niloptcd regretting the de-illi of the chap
lain, M. .1 Landon. and praising Ills
faithfulness and fidelity.
! Kail I'uiman of Burlington was home
over Sunday. Mrs. 1. C. Wliltford of
YergPiinos Is the guest of Mrs. A. T.
i 'lark. Stella Cross has gone to Brls-
" i tol to enter the teachers' trninlng class,
jthe class being given up here. The C. J.
Newport, Oct ll.-Frank C. William:-, i ell Pomona Grange mot with Grand
, , , ., ,.. . , ,. . View Grange last Wednesday. Several
nan,. i-nmm.sMo.ier ... me ... i- ; K,..lUKVH .,,. ,epresented.-Mr.
inont, has prepaied his annual report oijlf! Aithur Clark have returned
tlie General Assembly rocrlng the year 'canton, N. V.. and other points in noith-
..,,11.,.. I.,,,,, in i',u: At tb.it time lb. .ii, ern Now York, where they visited
weie 2) mutual savings banks and US -.,v-
NEW EVIDENCE Or
VERM0NTTHR1FT
Savings Ranlcs per Capita De
posits Excel Those of AH
Other States.
lugs banks and trust companies do.ni;
business In tho Stale. Their agvieg.'te
tcsoiirces nnd liabilities were $11 l.ll.VJ'W!,
an increase during tho llscul year of S7
O'iS.HTm.SO. The loans on leal estate in Ve''
inont were $2.1,U."i,i2.17 and tlie loans on
real estate elsewhere w ore $4S.S.t"..":i7.29. Tho
totnl deposits were 10.',r.'',n.:i0.l.'i, nil in
crease during the year of neatly fefii
million dollars, the number of depositors
having increased from 2K372 to 22722 dur
ing tho same period. Tlie surplus of .ill
the banks has increased during tho year
$i7S,B7.9l.
Commissioner Williams sayV that Ver
mont now stands nt tho hnd of nil tl e
their
l son, Frwin Clnrk. who has entcted the
1st. Lawrence I'nivorsity at Cnnton to
! take up an agricultural course They
Ing ul Sfiinuel Wlnimot'rt in r.nJ.
-The Whatsoever Circle .vW' - In
Mlddlrbtiry Tlutrsdny at thf. ..o of Jlrs.
Mervln Twltchcil by special Invltntlon.
Mrs. Twltchcil wns a former resident of
Cornwall,
MIDDLEBURY.
Mis. A. T. Hendricks of Seymour strco'
died very suddenly nbnut JOISO o clo :l
Thursday night of heart trouble. Slio had
seemed as well as usunl during tho day
and in tho afternoon Attended church :-t
St. Mnrj-'s Church, going to liar liotn
for supper. In tho evening she rodo back
to the evening services and after they
weie over said that she wanted lo wall;
home. When near her husband's stnro
on Seymour street she told her husbin 1
she felt tired and wanted to sit down.
She asked for a drink and taking a few
swallows fell dead. Drs. U. W. Ficntl-u
nnd F II. Martin were summoned, ur.
nothing could be done. She was r. years
of ago and was born in Canada, coining
to Vergennes when she was about 15 year
of age, whore she lived about ij years
Six yours ago she came lo this viliago.
Shi- was twice man led, her lirst husband
being Mr. Lawrence, who died nulic a
number of years ago. To them vvcio
hntii four sons. Joseph Lawrence of I
hrblgeport, Conn. Lowls Lawrence m'
Lincoln, William Lawrence or Wlnchen- !
don, Mass., Felix I.awienco of Sprlngile.d,
I Mass.; six dnughters, Mrs. Mattle P.n-- i
I ton of Vergennes. Mrs. Hose DosauteU
I of Wlnooskl. .Mrs. Mabel Mallory of l. r.v-
i ell. Mass., Mrs. Lena Major nf Wlnnnxkl. ,
I Mrs: Ida Coollger of New York city, run
( Mrs. Blanche Helghter of Cornwall, .-br
jis survived by her second liusnand. o-i..
'son, Walter ' Hendricks or Middleliiirv
land two daughters, Miss Tllloy llendri-k.'
nf "Monti cal. Cnn., nnd Miss Fsther llon
lilileks of Midillrliiiry. The funeral was
' held at St. Mary's Church Monday
j morning at nine o'clock and burial wa:i
In tho Catholic cemetery In this vl
! age. Mrs. Hendricks was a member of
I the Catholic Church and was very attm
j live to her church duties.
! A large number of friends and nelgh
I bors of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Walker gath
! ored nt their home on Weybridge street
Friday evening nnd gave them a sur
prise party. They are soon to move to
Proctor. The evening wns spent with
games. Bofreshments were served. Dur
ing the evening tin y were presented
with nn assortment of solid sliver spoons
nnd ! from those who had gathered as a re-
rrom ' niombrancc or the many friends they have
In this vicinity. Mr. and Mrs. F. A.
Herd of Granville, N. Y., are visiting In
Mlddlebury nnd neighboring towns.
IMgnr N. Dispell has returned to Last
Slioreham atter several days here with
after vrek hero Willi their hrolher.
fl-rvVN The Inlter. fiepntnti'itnnil Uv 1.1a
. Mlu Vlllr, M.
..v..,', ,.,'111 1, ...IllilltlJ
.aranac. N. Y where he will spend
made the tilp In their car.-Hena King-, irieivis.-ii. K. v ens oi vv nuing. j.
man of liurllngtnn was a week-end guest iChampliie of Hutlnnd and C. W. and
at Unwind Oinrk's.-Dr. and Mrs. Melvln I H. W. Hoot of Chnrlotte are in town.
Smith of Now York have been spoiulli,,- 'Charles D Wooster ol" Chittenden has
a few dnvs with their patents. Mr. nnd rrturnrd after spending several days hero
Mis. S. W. Smith. Mr. and Mrs. Geoige
' Uuscoe cif Bristol were guests at L. C.
Soegar's last week. Mr. and Mrs. G. '
'Speiinr ami Llmor and Mrs. W. II.
: .'-'.nines were ill Builington Wednesday.
! Mr. and Mrs. Hi-win Adams bnve gone
to Caiman. N. II.. to spend two weeks
witli friends.
BRISTOL.
yield 17.0 bushels, compared" with liuT Kta"tes"nr-TtiC"TtmTTmtrTtf--Tti--.-rv':
Newport, H. 1., Oct. 11. In an effort to
clear Lp the nnsiery oni eriiing the
British steamer Kliigstoinan, which was
leported both by tlie Nantucket shoals
lightship nnd the crew of the torpednel
steamer Strathdene as having boon ile-
stioyed Sunday, Captain David P. Dud
ley, of the lightship, wns asked to foi
ward what Information lie bad in the
matter. A radio message from him to-
ht said:
Report of sinking was io rived from
nptnln Wilson anil crew of Strathdene
hen they boarded this vessel. Claimed
they saw Klngstonlan nttacked and new
taking to boats. Crew of Chtlsllan Knud
sen hoarded lightship after pulling for
hours after having been sunk thirty
miles south of tho lightship "
Naval min were Inclined to think this
indicated that the reported loss of the
Klngstonlan was an ermi. Hadlo con
ditions Sunday wore not uf the hesl, they
pointed out, nnd in tlie excitement of the
moment It would have been ensy for the
Strathdene to have confused the Klng-
stoulan with the Knuibon, a Norwegian
ink steamer, owing to a similarity in
their code slgnnls.
The United States navy is taking every
recautlnn against tho uso of tho Ameri
can coast as a uaso oi supplies 101- ior
ulcn submarines.
New York, Oct. 11. Although there was
no nows to-day to niiiicaie nun me je.i-
mnii submarine l'-r.i was still lurking In
tho Atlantic sen lanes and whilo some
hipping Intel osts believed she has headed
for Heligoland, theio was evidence tlint
thn British admiralty will proceed -.vi'h
notion in allowing British ships to de
part from Atlantic const ports. Two Brit
ish vessels, tho Pannonia and St. Georgt.
due lo sail to-day did not leave and H
was leported that others which have
learod. both French and British, will
not sail at present.
, dozen other British ships, inclilill IK
the big Whlto Star liner, Adriatic got
their clearance papers to-day, but it was
said that with tho exception of tho Adrl-
itle the dates of their doinrUiro would
depend on the developments In tho efforts
which. It is taken for urauted, tho urn
Ish admiralty Is making to rid American
vvnters nf tho submarine danger.
Tho Adriatic. White Star line officials
said, would sail nt noon to-morrow nnd
prospective passengers had been notl'lcd.
acre
last year and 20.,-,, the l&riO-l.'l average
White potatoes: Condition i;2.0 per cent,
or a iioi-m-i'. compaied witli l!7 4 lest
month -'lid " 0. tho ten-year average. In
dicated arii-' yield S2.S bushels, eompafcn
with !i."i.. last eai- and 07.1 the 1&0-13 avc--ago.
Sweet potatoes: Condition 70 2 per o"nt
or a normal, compared with SJ. , last
month and MS tlie ten-year average. In
dicated acre yield 02.1 bushels, compared
with 103 3 Inst year and 02.7, the 1009-1S
a v era go.
Flax: Condition v1.2 per cent, of a nor
mal, compared with S4.S last month, and
70.0 the ten-yen- average. Indicated yield
0.7 bushels, compared with 10.1 last year
and 7.S. the l'niO-13 average
P.ice: Condition 01. ,1 per cent, of a nor
mal, rnmpnied with 01.2 last month, and
s.'i,7 the ten-year average. Indicated acre
yield .'17.(1 bushels, compared with XI last
yes i" and ".:!",. the llifO-lS average.
Tobacco: Condition M.K per cent, in a
normal compared with '..,' last month
and Sl.S the ten-year average Indicated
ane yield Mm pounds, comparod with n5.1
last year and M.'i.l, the lls-O-l" average.
Hay: Indicated aeie yield 1.G1 ton3,
compared witli 1 ifi last year nnd 1.31 totu.
tlie lOnO-l"! average.
Sugar boots: Condition fC.S per cent, of
liormnl, mmpaicd witli M.7 last month,
and M.I, tlie ton-year average. Indlcr.i',d
acre yield O.s tons, compared with 10 7
tons last year.
Kafirs: Condition 19" per cent, nf t
normal, compart d with fl.'.S last month,
nnd M.l, the ten-vonr nveinge. Indlonlec!
acre-yield 10.0 bushels, compared with .'i-ti
bushels last year
The crop repurrlug hoard's next gm
eral report will be Issued Wednesday, No
vember S
lugs batiks per capita of population, ant
that over JoniY) Inhabitants of tho Stat
have deposits in the State banks. Con
sidering the rapid increase In deposits, nnd
the possible effect which the rural credit I
law may have upon rates of farm mort
gages In tho West nnd Smith, the comii'.' -sloner
llnds that It may not bo possihi
fur tho banks to continue paying deposi
tors at the late or four per cent nnuuuilv
unless the Held for investments by ihe
banks is somewhat enlarged, and it is his
opinion that the Legislature may wall
consider the advisability of extending the
right to Invest In municipal bonds to
States which are now excluded, as well as
to Invest In the best class of Cr.na-llun
bunds. Hr thinks, nlso, it may be wll
to investigate the advisability of allow
ing the banks to Invest In first mortgage
bonds or some of the strongest and bJit
Industrial and public servlco corpoiattoiii
In this country, and In the bonds of fi i
oi','n countries.
The commissioner reports that secut--tles
sold in Vermont from July 1, 1913, to
lime HO, 1010, by Investment companies
licensed to do I uslness In Vermont
amounted to pj,S2ri,20i 15,
INSffllfyjUNCi'S PLEA
tr.uer Proprietor of llnll.ind Hoime,
Itiitlni.d, Placed nn Trial Tor Mur
der of UN M Ife.
TAFT TOSPEftKlN STATE
Hcpilfttlf nil State Coin. ..liter AIho II
l.rrlM Senator l-'eri.i.ld nnd
llenrj llsti-rbriinU.
.Montpelier, Oct. 11. The republican
Stain committee following a meeting of
the executive board iinnnunces that ex-
i President William II. Tuft will speak In
I Vermont during tlie campaign, the date
land place not being llxrd, and other
speakers rxpectul uie I'nltrd Stairs Sen
ntor Fernnbl of .Maine and Henry Ilstcr
brook of New York.
D. A. R.'S MEET
AT MONTPELIER
Montpelier, Oct. 11. Members of the
Vermont Chapter of thu Daughters of
tho American Revolution mot to-day in
Bailey hall for tho 17th annual confer
ence, It being tho second patriotic society
to moot in tho city this week. The
Colonlnl Dames met Tuesday, and the
Daughters of 1812 will hold their annual
meeting Thuisday.
Tho following olllcer.i wcro elected:
Stato regent, Mrs, lldward SpriiKuo
Maish, Brandon! Stato vico-regent, Mrs,
1-3. M. Pembcr, "Wells; recording secre
tary, Mrs. K", Ij, Hazard, Fulr Haven;
corresponding secretary, Mrs. Helen 13.
Peck, Brundon; treasurer, Mrs, K. I.
Swift, Brattleboro; nudltor, Mrs, Ilay
inond McFarhind, Mlddlebury; historian,
-Mrs. F. O. Glllinglinm, WoodHtont; chap
lain, Mrs .1 F Downing, Ilssex .lime
pin; dirclol-, Mrs, T Dewey, Mont
i(lcr. Mt tleitruile David Itulliinil,
and Mi s Jiumr uleutiue, BennliKsloii,
Hiislmnd Wife's Counsel.
Montiieller, Oct. 0. -Mrs. Henry Wagner
wns adjudged gulltv In city court to-day
of breach of the pence following a hear
ing before .ludge F.. M. Harvey. Mrs.
Wagner did not attempt to get counsel,
but hci husband rondueted the examina
tion of Hie throe witnesses put on tli.i
stand by Grand .linoi- Therlanlt and Inter
testllbul lilmso.lt. When .Indue llarv-y
aiiuounceil tlie Judginont Wagner said '.in
would like an appeal and was gieatly sur
plised to lea ni that tho Leglslntuie had
changed the law Mrs Wagner pall a
(Hid of Vi anil costs.
S( U)E ! 1)"T0DE ATM.
(Special to the Froo Press.)
Montgomery Cenlor, Oct. 11. Francis
Blodgett, an employe of the Nelson iln'l
company's veneer plant, was lustnnl'y
killed yesterday when lie fell Into a stouu
vat In which veneer logs uro steamed.
No ono tiavv 111 I ii fall. Tho wnler had In
bo drawn before his body could bn dli-
o eted.
The funeral will be held Thtllsdnv-.
with bulbil at U'well. Mr Blodgott leavci
n wlfo and several chlldien. He had H
sided in town for about 10 years
Hutlnnd. Oct. 10. George W. Duncan.
nge 27 years, mrmer proprietor or the
Hotel Holland in this city, who shot and
killed his wife at the home of Mr. and
Mrs, Ildward Dezoio and hi their
presence on August 3. 1013, wns placed
on trial in Hutland county court this
mornlne and It became known for the
(list time that his defense will bo In
sanity or temporary derangement of tho
mind due to tho use of intoxicntlng
liquor, a narcotic or worry. The entire
day was consumed In the examination
of possible Jurymen but the panel was
not completed. In addition to about 3.1
regular Jutynieii tho .iherlrf called III 10
talesmen.
I'osslblo Jurors ".vein asked whether
they would hrlns In n verdict or not
guilty, under the couit's Instructions,
should It bo shown that Duncan wns
mentally Inesponsiblo while suirerlng
from delliliini tremens, from tlie effects
of a narcotic given him to produce sleep,
from nervous prostration produced by
worry, or from other temporary cause.
The attorney wnntcd to know If the fact
that tho respondent used imoxicatliic
Honor would piejuilice the Jurymen In
their verdict.
Duncan, nftor Kissing ins seven-year-
old sou, shot 111' vv-iie irum uie clonr oi
n darkened bedroom as she sat facing
him In the lighted living room nt Dezero's.
Iln attempted to shoot himself after the
act. Dozen, siintcniiig ins pisioi away.
iVmcan nnd his wife nro said lo have
had trouble a week liefoie the shooting
and It Is very generally known that ho
'..-., inoiniia of other men who paid at-
tentlon to Mrs. Duncan, Tho lespoudent's
c.unK,.l have subpoenaed witnesses who
are said t" '"oW snnrMmuK about tin
. nileced Improper actions. Dun
cnn is a prosperous man and bus a good
.. .1. minion. ir wi.n i. ii'iiiv) mi con
itneiiir n long time. Dr. B, II. Stone nf
the State laboratory of hygiene Is hoi
as a Stato witness.
SNOW ON MOUNTAINS.
Henry Gnrdnerdled nt. 'ils nonie ri
Sor.lT "street TlniisiTay niornmg. fur.
Onrdner had I eon in poor health for a
long time, but his death wns probab!;
hastened by an accident. While ctossln:,'
Main street Sati rdny night, Mr. Girt'.
nor, who was hard of hearing, was run
into by an automobile and knocked down.
It wns thought nt the time that lie wns
not seriously Injured. Two sons sui
vivo him, William of Prldgepoit, Conn.,
who arrived Thursday night, and Fran;
S.. who lived with Ills father hero. Miss
Flossie M. Qiiimby has gone to Ohio,
where she will speak In the Interest of
missions. She expects to lemaln ihet."
about two months when she will go to
Roston ror tlie winter. Miss Quimby Is
a returned missionary from China, wtieie
she taught in a girls' school fop about lo
yoais, lint wns obliged to g:vo up the vvoii;
about two years ago because of ill health.
Miss Quimby is sent out by the Advent
Christian Church.
Mr. and Mrs. David Barton of So r.h
Glens Falls, N. Y., wore In town I'lirtay.
F. S. Mathewson Is in Mt. Clemen1',
Mich. Miss Grace Lnwieneo spent the
week-end with Mr. and Mrs. II. S. Stony
at New Haven Mills. Tho Hev. G. IC.
Cndy of Clingy, N. Y., was the guest f
Mrs. Cleora Young has gone to Burling
ton, where she expects to spend the win
ter. The funeral of Henry R. Gardner was
held Sunday afternoon nt 2:30 at the
Methodist Hplscopnl Church, the Hrv.
G. A. Parker otilcintlng. The bearers
weie Walter A. Wright, Clarenci C. Cur
rier, Milo 13. Ahernethy and Urnest B.
Gultidon, Tlie burial was In Greenwood
cemetery by the sldo of his wife. Mrs.
Georgo Cnrdoll or Wan on wns n guest
of Dr. nnd Mrs. A M. Norton Sunday.
Mrs. Alice Wright is visiting In More
town. Mr. nnd Mrs. I Tomer llewlt, Mrs,
A. C. Sumner and Miss Sadie Slmonson
wore In Burlington Monday. .Mr. and
Mrs, Alton Smnlley of Warren visited
his brother, Arthur Smnlley, nnd family
Sunday. Frank Smith was culled to Bur
lington Monday hy tho death of ills son,
who was drowned In the lake Sunday.
Howard Gulnan wont to Hartford, Conn.,
Monday, where he has n position.
Clyde Briggs of Richmond wns In town
Sunday. Henry Carpenter has returned
from Bristol, Conn. Mr. nnd Mrs.
Gabriel Lenor of Warrrn were In town
Sunday. Miss Donahue and Miss Stella
Cross from the Vergennes high school
have Joined the triicher-tiuliilng class.
Miss Jennie M. Grow was at home trom
Feirlsburg Sunday. Miss Marlon Mill-
lings was at home Iroin .Mlddlehiuy Col
lege over Sunday. Dr. and Mrs. C. A.
Averlll nnd son Wilber of Burlington
called on friends here Sunday H. C.
Martin left Sunday for Boston to attend
the world's sorlrs gnmo Monday.
Tho Indies of tho Methodist Uplscopol
Church will hold a harvest festival In
the church parlors Friday evening trom
live tn seven, Supper will be served and
vegetables- and trult will lie sold.
W. C. Jacobs Is visiting ins son, wiius
Jacobs, and family In Boston. Miss
Bessie Avery Is visiting in 1 Icomleroga,
js;, y Tho teachers or tho high anil
graded schools are attending the State
teachers' convention held in Burlington
Ibis week. Doetois Norton, I'.dmunds
nrul BrlKKS aro attonuing tuc Mate
medlon! convention neni in nt. jonnsoury
Tlinisdav nnd Friday. Mr. and Mrs. T
It Thomas, Mrs- I' H- H'" n'l Miss
Kvelyu Dumas aie In Burlington to-day.
Mis. Hill Is dolomite from the Outlook
club to tlie Pai cut-Teachers' association
held In BurlliiKtoii Wednesday nnd
Tlnusdny.-Mrs Julia Morgan of Bur
llngton is a g-uest of C. T Fray nnd fam-Uy.
with his mother, Mrs. John "W. Wooster.
Hay L. Fisher has completed his rn-
gagement with the New York American
baseball team fur the sensnn nnd return
ed to his home in this village to spend
the winter. 13. H. Wooster, who for sev
oral yonrs has boon chief clerk at the
freight tlepot, has resigned. Alexander
Aunchmnn has been nppolnted to suc
ceed him Lockwood M. Soely of Newark,
N. J., Mrs. Mary U Tjwn nnd Mrs.
nt'urln S. Klrklniul and rinvV.riter Miss
Sarah of Orlenns, Neb., who linvo been
spending a few days nt the home of
I'rof. anil Mrs. II. M. Soely, bnve return-
two months for the, benefit of his health.
I ho first teal froezo-np of Tall In thH
section en mo Monday night. Thero vim
j something of n blnck frost which ruined
whatever garden truck wns still out of
doors. Miss FJeanor Boss, dean of wom
en's college, has retained from a visit at
her mother's homo In Hutland. Profosnor
and Mrs Chatles Baker Wright and
daughter. Miss Marjnrle Wright, havo re
turned from Hanover, N II , whero titey
went Inst week to attend tho Inauguration
or Dr. K. M. Hopkins, the new president
of Dartmouth College. President and
Mrs. John M. Thomas, who also attendc.l
the Inauguration, are making a little slda
excursion Into tho White mountain re
gions. Town Clerk Joseph M. Burke hn
been nsked Ii. become a cnndlilnto for
town representative In tlie next Legisla
ture. Mr. Burke states that he Is not and
will not be n candidate for thn olllce, anil
expresses tho opinion Hint th 412 voters
who In the September primaries nominat
ed Lawyer Ira 11. LnFIour, without oppo
sition as the republican should and will go
to work and elect Mr. Lit Flour to tho of-
lice. Mr. aiV Mrs. Paul J. Boss and Mr.
nnd Mrs. F.dwnrd Hlpley or Poultney havs
returned to that town after nn automo
bile trip to town to visit Hmorson Hj.-..i,
a son of Mr. nnd Mrs. Boss, nt tho col
lege. Mr. and Mrs. Halph Borden ana
their daughter. Miss Julia, of Cllntoi,
Conn., are visiting relatives lit town.
Miss Jennie Seeley has returned to Bran
don after spending a week heie with hi"
parents, Mr. nnd Mrs. Charles J Selef
of High street. Phelps J. Coollhan, nf or
n four months' Illness, has so farrecovc.-otl
ns to bn able to give full nttentlon to his
business again. Mr. nnd Mrs. "W. 1-3 Clem
ent have returned from Fair Haven, whole
I boy siiorit n wook ns guests of Mr Clem
ent's son, II. P. Clement Mr. nnd M.-.i
Frank Leonard, who were recently mar
lied nnd have been on a brief weddlnff
trip, part of which they spent with tbo
groom's hrother, James Leonard, in Or
well, have returned to town and expec
to mnke their future homo here. Hanso-r)
O'Hrynn has returned from Vergenn-,
whero he has been passing- a week vvi'i:
the family nf his son, Charles O'Brynn
George It. Chnffee, county fish and g.im?
warden, who has been seriously 111 for tr-r
weeks, Is able to bo out. James Blair his
returned from Vergennes, where he w-i
rnlle,! on account of the illness nnd dejtV
of bis grandfather, Peter Blnlr Mesn.
David I Her of Hutlnnd nnd William Hlei
or Wllll.'imstnwn. Mass., nre visiting rela
tives In Middlel ury nnd ndincent towns
This week's shipment or livestock fn r
the local station consisted of four car
loads of cows, calves nnd hogs for thf
Brighton market and two enrioads ul
nilleli cows and venl calves for Nit
York. The date for the annual leunlon oj
the lltli regiment of Vermont voltinte? 'I
In tlie Civil War Is Frldnv, October 20,
not .Monday, October 30, as lms been pub
lished In some dally papers. Mr nnd M s.
Francis W. Boyd nnd Mr. Boyd's slaNr,
Mrs. Cecilia Hnrrlsorr, of TItuavllIo, fx,
ate v-Mtlng here. Deputy Sheriff Noble .T,
Sanford lias returned from nn nftlcinl visit
to the State' Institution at Windsor. Mr.
and Mrs. Noah M. Thompson nnd R. S.
Hnllock bnve gent home tn Stnrksbot-J
nttoi- a row days" business trip In town -ICdwnrd
Brlssetto and R. S. Root '.!
charlotte. Mrs. William Shnckett of
Bristol and John Benson of Lelces'er
Junction have returned to their home
after visiting here. Mr. and Mrs. Ho war!
Aylward and their nephew. Tommy Mor
rison, who have boon visiting In this su
tlon Tor the past six weeks, started Tues
day on their return hv automobile to Ail
ed to their homos. Mr. and Mrs. John i burn, N. Y. Miss Clara 3Uarshall has goim
Pinney of Seymour street nre parents of
a son. Dr. L'zra Prainurd Is sufrerlng
from an Injury to one knee, caused by
a fnll from a ladder Tho women of St.
Stephen's 13plscopal Church will bold n
rummage sale October is. Miss Jennie
Seeley, who lias been visiting nt the home
of Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Seeley for a week,
has returned to her home In Brandon. t
Mrs. C B. Wright and dnughtor Mar
jnrle havo routined from Akron, Ohio,
whore they have spent a few weeks.
Mrs. L. A. Skiff hns closed her home on
Him street nnd gone to New York city
to spend the winter.
Col. .Innn s M Tracy wont Mon
day night to Boston for a two weeks'
vacation with his dnughtor, Mrs. Flor
ence L. Smith. The mission given nt St.
Mary's Catholic Church for the past
right days by tlie Dominican Fathers
Riley and Foley of New York city camo
to a close on Sunday, and the mission
aries returned to Now York the same
night. Tlie Lilian Alien Chapter, Daugh
ters of the American Revolution, will
observe the COtli unuiversnry or their or
ganization on Thursday, October 10, nnd
other chapters of the order will be pres
ent ns guests nt an elaborate luncheon to
bo given In the afternoon. Mrs. Ira M.
Taylor and dnughtor Miss Noma have,
returned from Plttsford, where they have
boon on u visit to Mr. and Mrs. Perloy
II Kendrick. Richard II. Frodettr, who
went from Mlddlebury and enlisted in tho
Brattleboro company of tho Vermont Nu-
FlrNl
I 'n 1 1
bill
Venr near Mlihlleln.rj ,
n Front III Village
Mi.i.iinbiirv. OcX. o.-'l lio lirst snow of
,,,'e season '" T ''' ' ''"
Ing the niniiii."V" V . " ... ' . "
rird White
theio was
to i iu" ocmii ... nn itim, nut
no slBii of "'osi In thla villain.
to w nshington, D. C, for a visit of sv-
erni weeks with relatives.
There was a meeting of local farm
ers at the schoolhouse in the Brooklns
district Tuesday evening-, h-ld for the
purpose of talking over matters per
taining to agriculture, and particular
ly the present milk sltuntlon The
mooting was well attended. An inter
esting talk on "Water Systems," with
stereopticon Illustrations, was given
by Agent Bur.Hck of tho Vermont ex
tension service, Burlington. Mr, and
Mrs. Charles W. Root or Charlotte have
purchased through the N. S. Foots
agency the property of the Into Dr
Charles 13. Prentiss, located h milo cast
of this village and have taken posses
sion. Mrs, lCllen Sears, who hns suf
fered greatly from a trouble with her
right foot for several months, went
Monday to tho Fanny Alton hospital,
accompanied hy Dr. P. L. Dorey. Tues
dny nn operation was performed and
two of the toes were amputated The
bills for the school taxos of district No.
4, comprising the village, havo been
placed In the hands of Treasurer Pin
ney for collection. The tax is 71 cents
on the dollar or the grand list, with
a discount of four per cent to r 11 who
pay it on or before October 1.1. Sam
uel 1-3. Mcekln lias removed his barber
shop from the Cobb-Hyan block on
Main street, where ho has been located
for 31 years, to tho Murkland block.
tlonal Guard, returned Saturday night i Just across the river. Arthur Delphi
after linvlni? been mustered out, and will has remove.1 rrom tho .Murkland block
.1 1.1 .l...l l ' . . t. ,-...1.1. U1nfll. ...kl.l. l.A Knnn.t..
spend some time visiting relatives here
and In Hutland. Tlie first or the weekly
union prayer-meetings to be conducted
by the congregations oT the Baptist,
Methodist and Congregntlonul Churches
will take place Tliunsduy evening in the
Congregational Church. Tho plan Is to
continue these meetings through tho Tall
and winter. Adolphus J. Morris, with a
gang of masons, has gone to Bristol,
whero he has u contract to build a large
brick business block this fall. Mrs.
Henry Donnelly and dnughtor Miss Sadie
have rrturnrd home to Proctor after u
visit to rrlutlves at tho home of Mrs.
Chillies A Collins. Charles F. Rich
started Sunday
business and
to the Cobb block, which ho recently
purchased from P. II. Ryan of Ver
gennes. Mrs. John II. Sargent has
closed the "'Mlddlebnrv Inn," which she
has conducted put of tho time since
the dentil of Mr. Sargent last May, and
on Wednesday wont to Ausablo Forks,
N. Y.f to spend several weeks with hor
niece, Mrs. Clarence "W. Page. Mrs.
Lbeli C. Ryder and Mrs. F. C Gulley
left Wednesday for Sagamore Beach,
Mass. They wotit by automobile In
company with Mr. and Mrs. S. L. Trom
bley, who have been visiting hero and
arc returning home, and they will visit
in and around Boston for a week.
night on his annual fall Clayton 13 Crane of Wntorbury. who
recreation trip. After i .... ' .lln .......u.,., ,,ii new construction
CORNWALL
Mr and Mrs. Leslie Molt of Hubbard
ton with their three children, spent Hie
weeli-end at A W Footr's Loyal Tow lo
r..i-,i bis in w horn Thursday - Mrs. ,1.
i.t H...-1-rv nnd Mrs II F Sanfolil enter-
t ft I Itoil fl lit nnbrr of laillrs at the homo
spending a couple of days in Boston and .,.,. at tho, college lor two vears, has
Urbstir. Mass., he will proceed on v cd- . Urandnii, where ho will have
nosday by water from Now London, , , ,nrBI, flf the huildliiK of .a new school-
Conn., tn Now York city to spend a week.
Miss Nelllo Bllnu has returned from
New Haven, where she lias been visit
ing as the guest of Mr. nnd Mrs. V. M.
Morrill. Charles II. Westnll, Sr., return-1
(I Sunday from Richmond, where he
spent three weeks on a visit to the fam
ily of his son, Henry Westnll, u lormer
popular Mlddlebury boy. William II. Por
ter, a native of tbi.n lown and now a
prosperous business man and banker In
New York, has returned to that city nftor
a visit to relatives at tho Addison House.
Mrs. Laura Weeks hns returned to her
home In Milton after on extended stay
here with r latlvos Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
Bench returned Monday to Lake Placid,
N. Y., after two weeks In town Owing
to Inclement weather thero was only a
small nttendnncn of rural people upon
ninikot day, Monday, and tho offerings
wore comparatively .small. Butter
brought from 30 to 30 cents per pound and
eggs from 3,1 lo SS criits per dozen. Pota
toes lire peddled out at from down
to $1 per bushel, tho drop being duo to
Ihn fact thut the yield will bo much
larger tlinn was lookid for a month aim.
Some depitilmonts of Ihn local branch
of tbo Vermont Marble Co. shut down
Monday for u few days to give a chance
ror Installing new machinery and milk
ing some needed lepalrs William Mc
Onnley nnd Mrs, Mury Chapman oT
Morinh, N V , and Michael McConloy
of Addison havo returned to their homes
house under Contractor Thomas v.
Rogers. All schools In town closed for
the week Wednrsdny afternoon to glvo
the teachers nn opportunity to attend
the State teachers' convention In Bur
lington on Thursday nnd Friday, of
which nearly all tho graded and high
school teachers of tho vtlLigo will take
advantage. Mrs. 1., II. Stalknor of
Strnford, Conn., a former resident of
Mlddlebury, Is in town to spend two
weeks with relatives. Charles Lamor
der Is .Innirorously 111 with a compli
cation of diseases and his daughter,
Mrs. Charles Miller of Vergennes, has
been summoned. Wednesday afternoon
It wns feared ho could not live through
the night lOxcept for tho closing" of
the National bank and the public li
brary there will bo no observance of
any kind nf Columbus day in Mlddle
bury to-day. Peter Counter has loft
town for a round of visits with rela
tives at Keesevllle, N. Y., and vicinity
and In Burlington, where Ills daughter,
grand-daughter nnd great grandson
live. Jane Grey, the ncress. wrltos to
relatives here from New York that hot
17-year-old daughter, who has Just
been graduated from school, will gc
Into "the movies" at once.
(Continued fini.i piigc two,)
9
