W«rinal ••he »O
4
STRICTLY DEMOCRATIC ; ALWAYS CONSISTENT.
/VOL XXVII
NATCHITOCHES, LOUISIANA, THURSDAY, OCT. 12, 1916.
NO. 53
PROPOSED
MOTS
TO THE
CONGHTUTION OF LOUIS
IANA
Adopte! at tho Session of the
legislature of 191G.
To I'c Voted On at the Congres
sional .LclLn.
Act Ao. 4
House Mill No. 4. By Mr. Byrne
joint resolution.
Proposing nn amen «ment to the Consti
tution of the State of Lou.s'naa prn
vlainjr for: The funding of certain
debts of the City of New Orleans and
of ti e Board of directors of tue Pub
lic S -Pools. Parish of Orleans, r*
spent! «ely the Issuance of her.al bon n
I y i.ty. tue purpose ior and the
r nn er In which same may be Issued
and the duties and functions of the
Lut'd of LI jut lution, City Debt. witn
relerer.ee thereto; and the levying by
the City of New Orl ta s and the
Board of School directors, rarish o
Orleans, respectively, oi ce-taln taxes
for general municipal an I school pur
poses; an 1 provliine for the submis
sion of snld amen Imer.t to toe elec
tors of the State for their approval
or rojectlon.
Be It ena-tu! hy the General Assem
bly of the State of Louisiana, two-third*
of all the rneinb-rs ••.ede : t - each no
concurring. that subject to i.ie ratlfict
tfl>n and approval of the electors o:
the Stat«, the Constitution of the Statt
be amended by Incorporating therein
the following provlslonb, lo-wit.
Section 1. The City o# New Orleans,
by a vots of three-fourths >f all th#
members of th# Board of Liquidation
City Debt, approved by resolut'on of the
Commission Council, or Its successor as
the governing body of said munitipality,
adopted by a vote of two-thir*« of all
the members of said council or govern
ing body, shall have power and Is here
by authorised to Issue Nine Million Dol
lars (S9.000,000) of bonds, to be styled
•"City of New Orleans Serial Gold
Bonds." and to bear such rate of inter
est ns the Board of Liquidation. City
Debt, may fix from time to time as each
Installment of said bonds Is offered for
■ale as hereinafter provided.
Section 2. Three Million DolUrs (*«,
•fli.VOO), In par value, of the bonds au
tho> ! '«1 hy 8ectlon 1 of this amendment
shall forthwith be »old.
The proceed# of said three million
dollars of bonds shall be appHed exclu
sively to the following purposes and in
the following order:
(a) The payment of the outstanding
unpaid
t Ox th« City or p
sued Cfider Act No 2 of the General As
of the State of Louisiana vor
190«. which bonds shall he
•MBbly
the year 190«. which bonds shall ne
called for payment and paid as soon as
pnctlcfthlii
(b> The payment of the principal of
the floating Indebtedness of the
Hoard of Directors of the Pub
lic Schools, Parish of Orleans,
evidenced by note or notes out
standing at the time of the adoption
of this amendment to an amount n«
exceed'd" Six Hundred and Fifty Thou
sand Dollars ($660,000); provided that
In the event that said Indebtedness or
any part thareof shall have been paid
by said Board out of Its currant reve
nus# previous to the adoption of this
amendment, the amount thus paid (n«t
to exceed *«60.000, however), shall b»
paid over in cash to said Board to ne
used by * for school purposes, as pro
vided hy uw;
(c) The peyment of the sum of Fire
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($600,0001.
with Interest thereon, borrowed by the
City of New Orleans for storm emergen
cy purposes in the year r916;
(d) The payment of the overdraft or
other Indebtedness due by the City of
New Orleans to Its flscal agents or other
banks representing loans or advances
made bv them to said city, other than
those re'erred to In paragraph <c) of
this section, to an amount not exceed
ing In principal and Interest the sum
of One ' 'Won Three Hundred and Flr
tv Thousand Dollars ($1,260.000): and
(e) n - e balança of said proceeds
•hall be need and employed by the
Board < • w-nidation. City Debt, for the
payment f Public Improvement Certifl
bntea o' t' « City of New Orleans, as set
forth In section 3 of this amendment.
flection I be remainder of the
bords authorized by flection 1 of th'«
amendment, P r so much thereof as may
be nercrr -iy. s',Hl b» sold, from time to
time. In s ich amounts as the Brnrl of
Liquidât "r, City Debt, may determine,
ind the proceeds of the «sie thereof
•hall b* rppHcd by said Board to the
«avment o* Public Improvement Certifi
er t-s * v J ''Tired by Act No. 66 of tiie
General '-«mbly of the State of f^oirs
ippa for ♦ ' - year 1909. and acts amenda
tory thereof, and presently outstanding
ïr is*--« t any time In payment of
§ny cort-H-t made before this urawd
Srient n >< s effect, at their r^speerve
fratur't «■« ir when said maturities can
fee antic!- n.ted upon terms satisfactory
to sali P -ard.
I Bald /-t No. 6« of 1909 and all
kmendmo ts thereof, as well as all stat
utes rnii' the same subject, and so
'much of ,*< ts No. 129 and No. 270 of
■tt-e • .irsembly of the State of
iLou'sla*" 'or the year 1010. and other
'rtfitv'T th» same autvleot matter, as
may aff« -t, apply or pertain to the City
-of New ••■'.ears, be and the same are
thereby rener'e): nevertheless Pub"'c
I •— «nemeet Ce -tic-xtss may be issued
In the maimer prov! by said Act No
FH of '"os, and amendments thereof. In
h. arnnert of any contract made befor«
th e n — «ndnie r 't takes effect.
Pc-tlon 4 The City of New Orleans
mry r'r" les«'" and n»*w)t1ate its bonds
when author!;:*! by a vote of a major ry
In nu— ! -er a il amount of the property
tavTv* * who shall have been assessed
'for n**nper f '- In said city as shown by
h-i» i«st ass-ssment made prior to the
r -bn iss'or of the proposition to »n<*
, p-orert-- taxrsvers end who era
jf.i r . T )m> «■nantie! to vote under th*
it' .iffC ->r ->nd laws of this State.
H . 1 1 : - c* at a: «lection called by orilnar-e
v ». • v a vote of two-thirds of alt
» n ~ r -ili-r« of the Commission Coun
11 or il.» successor as the governing
'v of sa i " City of -New Orleans, and
)>'• «.«• i-isare before any such eleo
p r (i->xi shall be also adopted hy
>t«- -• "«—».fourths of all the m—-r
t *■«» Board of Liquidation. City
t » votice of said election shat'
, ..j tq- » « -or thirty davs In the nfi
! > - r »i o* said city Hour week!»
• • said notice con at I tu tine t.
«<«••! « »nr thirty rays, provide '
t '-i- intervene bet veen the date
C ». -irt Insertion and the date of
l*c. '.
■ .v Is «hall be issued under this
». - or "r .nv other purpose or for
.mount than that sta*ed in
1 ■ >. r'rMnn ol the proposition to
p«*
nty
in ce sc of flra, flood .
ftbrfn or other public calamitv,
if New Orleans «hall ha\**
m 9 two-thlrls vote of all C>.
i.a -'er«- of the Commission Council, or
l»r * ICCeasc'' ra the {Mvermlnc ho i«» n
aid alty, cjroumt.1 In by a throe
•!.» vote uf all the members of the
it -lift) *< Liquidation, City r>eit. "
I, ..row nu uoy and t«,-ue and neÿfoît i •
i.di m siH'b Him. no: eyrecdln* r;
il.Lll UnvumCiV lh «U i uUs sue»
'tnt-ffferr»,
■ttb., 6
Fw the Dürfet»«« af rr*
funding all or any part of the bonded
Indebtedness of the City o. New Orleans
existing at the time of the adoption of
tl. s nme: lment, bon is n ay from time
to time be Issued and negotiated. 'Vhen
any of the issues of the bonde of sa -i
city outstanding at the time oi tne a .op
tion ot t .is amendment shall be .me
callable r- ■- v,V;ln,g to tneir terms o me
statutes under tvhich they are respvc
ti elj' 'ss.ieu. or when the cons ..t ot
all the hoi -ers of any e ich issue of
bonds can ;>»> secured, the xioard of Li
quidation. C tv J eht, snail have tnc
right In its scret'on to call and j ay
any ore or more of said -ssues of '.) . 's
rqr.d shall be authorized 1 y reso! i' >n
duly adopted to Issue and negotni'e
bonds to provide the fun ie necessx
for that purpose: provt led. howe
that in no event shall the par value •
the bonds so sold and negotiated e
ceed the j ar value of the bonded n
debt«* T»fs thereby to be refunded.
Section 7. The full fa th and er » "»
of the City of New Orleaoa are pie so
for the pavment of the pr ncipal an I in
terest of all bonds Issued under th:s
amendment
The principal and interest o? all non .s
authorized by and to be issue 1 un 1er
this amendment shall be pat 1 primarily
out of ill that ore-half of the surplus
of the one per cent debt tax which here
tofore has been delicate! for the sup
port and xnainteranee of the public
schools of sahl e tv as 'ev!««d under nun
authorized n.v Act No. 110 of the Gen
eral Assembly of the S-tate of Louisiana
for the vear IS!*-, and subsequently
made part of the Constitution of this
Stute, an i c!>, a ter January 1, 192«.
that portion of the one per cent debt
tax. auth'rlxel r id levied under Act No.
110 aforesudd. an ' the two-mill tax au
thorized hy an leviel under Act No. 0
of the Cene-al Assembly of the State
of Louis's/a for the year 1899 whlon
shell bn « ion released aivl free 1 from
dedlcrfior c tlier by the calling unrt re
fun t.i:g or the chyment In due c -n -sc
o»' a' c- -i-y part of the bonds ex sur
at the time of the aloptlon of tn s
amendment: provided that. If the fin is
derived from the sources aforesaid s;ia-i
be IrsufTclert In at.y one year to pay
the princii al an.1 interest of the bon ie
Issued nr 'or th's amendment a-) l then
outstanding an! unpaid, or if for any
cause there shall not be funds appro
? rlated to or available for such purpuee
be City of New O-leans shall levy a
tax upon a'l taxable property In sail
cltv sufficient to provide for any such,
deficiency; and provided further that,
when the aforesaid one per cent debt
tax and two mill water unu sewer tax
shall cease to be levied, the City of
New Orleans shall levy a tax upon all
taxable property in said city sufflc:eni
to pay the principal and Interest of
satd bonds as they respectively become
due.
Section S. It Is hereby intended that
all existing dedication and appropria
tions of said one per cent debt tax au
thorized by said Act No lio of 1890 (ex
cept with respect to the said one-half
of the surd's nf the one per cent debt
tax therein dedicated to public schools),
and of said tw.--mili water and sewer
tax, authorized by sail Act No. 6 of
1899. shall be respected and performea
according to the priorities by said stat
utes established; t'— t all of that portion
of the funds resultir i from the levy of
said taxes which shall be released from
said appropriations and dedications oy
ths payment, satisfaction or refunding
of any cf Wie bonded debt obligations
now charge thereon and there-agair.si
shall, together with the one-half of the
surplus of t' e one per cent debt tax
heretof"re »»dlcated to public school
purposes, be used end applied to tne
payment of the principal end Interest of
all bonds Issue! un W this amendment:
that any residue thereof remaining after
the payment of the principal and inter
est ir any o«-» yevr of boni« authorize!
"hr this amendm«mt shall be turned over
to the city of New Orlean.»;, to be used by
it for general municipal purposes; but
when, and to the extant that, the obliga
tions now charged on said taxes shall be
paid, eatlfflel or refunded, said taxer
shall be released from srvd obligations,
and, ultimately, when entirely released
and dlsohtuged, shall eras- to be levied
and. that, thereafter, any and all bonds
Issued unaer this amendment shall be
provided for by a tax upon all taxable
property In the City of New Orleans
sutneient to pay tue principal and in
terest of said bonds as they respectively
become due; provide I. however, that, in
the event the îi'îids 1 erelrabove special
ly dedicated fT the payment of the
principal and interest of the bonds ;s
susd under tills amendment shoiW-1 prove
Insufficient, the City of New Orlens
shall, and It Is h»rebv required to. In
in every such Instance a tax upon nil
taxable property in the City of New Or
leans necessary to pay the principal
and interest ot said bonds.
Section 9 The principal and interest
of all bonds authorlred V v this amen ■
ment shall be pa} able In gold coin o'
the United «taut ot A'-ierica. <«r It.
equivalent, of the standard of weight
and fineness at the tl ;ie ot the issuance
of each trf-ta Iment of said bonds.
Bald bonds shall be exempt from ail
taxation for State, parish, municipal or
other local purposes. .
Savings barks tutors of minors, rnra
tors of Internets, trust eg and other
fiduciaries may Invest the funds In their
h*«* «n sail bonis.
Bald bonds may be used for depos't
wltu any otiu-er u-ut-d. municipality, e:
other political subdivision of the Statp
of Louisiana in any case where by pres
ent or future laws deposit or security is
required.
Said bonds mav be re~ stered and re
lease! from registry ur 1er such rums
as the Board of Liquide t»«n. City Debt,
may prescribe
Section 10. AH bonds issued und»'
this amendment shall bc-.-ir such rate of
Interest or, from time to time, different
rates of Interest, ar.d shall, except «».
herein otherwise specially provide!, b
In such form, terms and denominations
and payable at such tlmos and places
within a period of not exceeding ..tf>
S ears from the date thereof, as th
oerd of Lb-uldatlon. City Debt, sha-r
determine. Bald bonds shall be Issue i
In serial form and shall be payable 1r
annual Installments, commencing not
more than two years from their respec
tive dates, and the Instillment payai»!
In each year shall be so fixe! tnat. when
the annual Interest Is added thereto, th*
several annual total amounts of prin
cipal and Interest to be paid shall hr
as nearly equal as practicable; provide!,
said Installments mav be fixed at r-e
thousand dollars or the nearest multi
ple thereof.
aid bonds shall ba signed by the
Mayor ami »ha Commis? or*r of Public
Mr.snce of the City of New Orleans, or
officers exercising similar functions, ana
nurtersigned by the President or Vice
t-i-esident and tne Secretary or Assist
ant Secretary of the Board of Liquida
tion. City Lebt, and th* coup ns *t
« ached to seid bonds shall bear tne
fac-similé signatures of said Comm»»
s oner of Public Finance and satd Sec
retary or Assistant Secretary. In ras
any such officer whose signature
or counter-signature appears upon
such a bond or coupon shall
cease to be such oibcer before
lelivery of said bond or coupon
to the purchaser, such signature or
our ter-signa tu re shall nevertheless be
valid for àl) purposes. The cost sad ex
pense of preparing and selling said
onds shall be paid for by the Board or
Liquidation, City Debt.
Section 11. All bonds Issued under
this amendment shall be sold by the
luarl of Liquidation, City Debt, to tne
.■ Ixhest bidder or bidders by sealed prv
FgiS after due advertisement of not
than five Insertions in the official
•ra! of the City of New Orleans (tne
.r.U Insertion to be at least fifteen days
i if ; to the date of the sale), and auen
other advertisement in said city or
elsewhere, as said Board of Liquidation
may In Its discretion direct: provided,
said Board of Liquidation may raject
any and all bids.
Section 12. Exoept as otherwise pro
vided In this amendment the City of
New Orleans shall not borrow money,
issue bends, notes or other evidences of
n ate Hua» or pledge Its credit or an
ticipate the collection of any of 1U
ti
No money shall be drawn from tne
treasury ot said city without specific
ap .-oprtation therefor previously made,
no shut said city make any contract
or Incur any debt or obligation for any
purpose whatsoever unless sufficient
funds, not otherwise p-pproi-late'!, to
pay and discharge same are actually in
the treasury of s.il I city at the time of
making the cn~ fact or incurring tne
debt or o.'>i;«u t, and are spec, icaliy
set aside and .u- i; ate 1 to said purpose,
unless herein otherwise provided. The
fore-oing limitation and restriction
shall rot apply or be held to apply to
contra-ts or oh igation incurred with
fespoct to the furnishing to said city or
light, heat or power, water, telephone
Service or garbage removal or destruc
tion.
The sai 1 city may In any calenaar
year in anticipation of the collection of
the taxes of such calendar year, and tor
the purposes for which such taxes are
levied, borrow such sums as siiai: not
be in excess of flue amount of its un
collected taxes of su h y-ur. and may
ssie its notes or other evidences of
indebtedness therefor, and su- n sum,
notes or other evidences of indebted
ness shull be payable only out of the
taxes ot the calendar year In which said
loan or loans n'-e irr* ma ! c. an I ior
which indebtedness said revenues shall
be pledged, and said debt • ess snail
not be payable out of any other funds
or moneys whatsoever No money suail
be borrowed by the said city excepL for
current municipal purposes, and in no
event shall any money be borrowed by
said city to make or to pay for works
of public Improvement. Said city may
Issue for street paving purposes certifi
cates on Its faL.i and credit pursuant to
legislative authority, to an amount not
In excess of any special assessments
which have been or shall be made for
such purposes. Such paving certificates
hereafter issue 1 ehnll be chargeable
primarily against the special assess
ments In respect of which they are is
sued. and secondarily agatrst the reve
nues of the City of New Orleans derived
from taxation for general municipal
purposes and from sources other than
'.the taxes for the payment of the princi
pal and Interest of the bonds now out
standing or hereafter to be issued un
der this paving certificates only In the
event and to the extent that suen
amendment, which revnues shall be ap
plied in payment of such special assess
ments shall be insufficient for such pay
ment. and reimbursement shall be made
to the revera! funds of the City of New
Orleans when the assessments are col
lected ti the ■ xtent ot the amount thaï
the said gereral funds shall have con
trlbuted to the payment aforesaid. Sc
much of Act No. 23 or' the General As
sembly of the State of Lo;' : s ! ana for the
year 1914 sb may be incone.stent here
with Is hersby repealed, and hereafter
no paving certificates shall be issued
upon the pledge of the reserve fund of
the City of New Orleans, but such cer
tificates shall be secured as herein and
otherwise provided for by said act or
subsequent legislative authority not in
coniuct herewith; provided, however,
that paving certificates, for which the
faith and credit of the City of New Or
leans shall be pledged, whether issued
under the aforesaid Act No. 23 of 1914.
or under subsequent legislation, shall
not at any one time be outstanding in
an amount In excess of Five Million
Dollars ($5,000.000) in facs value.
flection 12. The total Issue of bonds
by the City of New Orleans for all pur
poses shall never exceed ten per centum
of the assessed valuation of the proper
ty In said city provided, however, that
neither the bonds issued for water,
sewerage and drainage purposes (name
ly, the $12,000.000 Public Improvement
Bonds Issued under said Act No. S of
1899 and the $8,000.000 New Pub
lic Improvement Bonds issued un
der Act No. II of the General
Assembly of the State of Louisiana
for th* year 1906, and acts
amendatory thereof aud supplemental
thereto, as well as such bonds, hereoy
or hereafter authorized, into which the
aforesaid bonus or any par therof may
be refunded), nor the $2,000,000 Public
Belt Railroad Bonds authorized by Act
No. 179 of the General Assembly of the
State of Louisiana for the year 1908.
nor any bonds hereafter authorized for
Public Belt Railroad purposes, nor any
bonds which may hereatter be isnuea
for water supply or for the acquisition
or construction of any revenue produc
ing public utility, nor any paving certifi
cates primarily chargeable against spe
cial assessments for street paving, shall
be Included In computing the Indebted
ness of sold City of New Orleans under
this limitation; and provided further,
that emergency bonds may be Issued as
authorized In Section 5 of this amend
ment even though said limitation shall
have been reached provided that tne
Nine Million Dollars of bonds authorized
by Section 1 of this amendment shall
not be subject to the limitation herein
fixed at the time or times that same
shall be Issued; but, with respect to
any other bonda that may be issued
hereafter under this amendment tner*
shall be Included in the computation
! said Nine Million Dollars of bonds, not
I withstanding the fact that all of raid
Nine Million Dollars of bonds shall not
have been actually issued, and suen
amount of emergency bonds as may be
j then outstanding.
{ Section 14. The Board of Llqutaa
: tlon. City Debt, as now organized and
! crested with the powers, duties ana
i functions prescribed by existing laws
i and by this amendment, shall be con
1 ttnued while any bonda autnorlzed Dy
! this amendment are outstanding and un
; paid; and all taxes which may be levlea
■ for ths payment of said bonds shall, day
I by dav as collected, be paid over to said
1 Board, and shall by It be applie! in pay
• ment of the principal ana Interest or
' said bonds; and said board shall with
» respect to all bonds authorize! by this
amendment be entitled to exercise an
the rights and enforce the performance
I of all the obligations, the same as it Is
3 authorized to do under laws existing at
I the time of the adoption of th-s amend
3 ment with respect to any of the present
1 ly outstanding bonds of said City or
New Orleans. All funds, property and
things of value held by the Board of Li
qutdatlon. City Debt, for bon led de»n
purposes other than taxes now or here
after levied, and particularly all funds
property and things of value now or
hereafter held by said Board under Act
No. 123 of the General ssembly of th<
State of Louisiana for tne year issu
and all amendments thereto, shall when
released from contract obligations or
dedications Imposed bj laws existing at
the time of the adoption of this amend
ment be used and employed in the dis
creation of said Board In payment and
retirement of any bonds of the City or
New Orleans then outstanding
flection 16. For general municipal
purposes, exclusive of the support and
maintenance of the puollc schools ann
the payment of the bonded debt of the
City of New Orleans, said city may in
each year levy upon all taxable property
within said city a tax not exceeding
•lx and one-half mills on the dollar o'
the assessed valuation thereof: pro
vided, however, that when the one per
cent debt tax authorized by sat! Act N«
110 of 1890 and the two mill water an i
sewer tax autbori-ei by said Act No. «
M 1899 shall both have ceased to be lev
ied. and if thereafter the taxes levied t»v
the City of New Orleans in any on«
year for bonded debt purposes be less
than ten mills, said city may In suci
events levy for its general purpose»
such additional tax which, when adle
to the tax of six and one-half mn.e
hereby authorized and the taxes levi»o
for the payment of the principal a»»d
Interest of its bonds as they severally
mature, shall not exceed In the aggre
gate sixteen and one-imlf ml'ls.
flection 16. The reservation of twen
ty per cent of the revenues of the city
of New Orlears shall not hereafter be
trade as direct'd by Section 40 of the
Act No. 159 of the General Assembly of
the State of Louisiana for the year
1912. except Insofar as the fund so di
rected to be reserved shall have-been
appropriated or dedicated before this
amendment takes effect to the payment
of any obligation or the Citj of New
Orleans, and sat«! reserve fund of each
year, when released from the obliga
tions charged a atnst It by law and be
cause of contracts, existing at the time
of the adoption of this amendment,
shall be used for general municipal pur
i
I
I
pose«.
Section 17. For the «upnoT, mainte
nance. construit! --a and -»pair nf the
public ;*chn*»»e in Die Cil> of New Or
leans, the Board of Director« of the
Public Schools. Parish of nrtwin« or it»
le-el s'i« , ''»«sor. seal: lew annually
»(»«•ti tux. uot exce* in, g three and one
Dalf mills, as said Board shall d»»- »»
which levy ahull be <•■»*•» <h* r|
Uso*a«ary. which levy ahull be ,*»••« »fieff
jî£ mS »«fee .. Utt*Coamiattm <*«••
ell or other future governing body of
the City of New Orleans, which shall
cause the tax to he entered upon (.::•»
tax rol.s of sail city according to laiv
again;" ail taxable property in si 1
city as ass esse! ml valued for city
taxation purposes, ind sa: : tax shell l>e
collected hy sain cty and i -In l •». v ' to
satd Board of Directors of the Pi
I Schools. Parish of Orleans, day by -.ay
as col.eeted.
ijaid tax shall be in lieu of all taxes,
appropriations and lands now author*J
ed or directed to be lev ed or cont:
ute.i by cue city of New Orleans i-r
public school purer: "s. e t er ny sai l
Act No. -■ : M of 1M> or other provision«
of til" Constitution of this St.to. All
constitutional provisions to the con
trary. as well as Act No. 262 of l e
General Assembly of the State of Lou s
iana for the year 1914, ratifie 1 as an
amendment t > th* constitution oi t •»
State, are he.'by ahroer.te 1 and repeal
ed; ario the C.ty ot art Orl ans s ail
have o p » er or authority to use T
employ any of its taxes or fun'.s tor
the < : t i I » ment, support or mainte
nance u i e public schools, directly or
Indirect!}', except as herein authorize!;
provider», however, that the City of Ne.v
Orleans shall administer, use and em
ploy ail the funds, property or things
of value now or hereafter held by it
under any special leyacy, bequest or do
nation ma le or to he made direitly *<•
it for school purposes, an i shall can. y
out and execute the conditions oi ail
such special legacies, bequests or dona
tions that have been heretofore made to
and accepted by said City of New Or
leans and all such as may hereafter be
made to and accepted by said city.
Section lx. For tne purpose of giv
ing additional support to the Public
schools, the Board of Directors of t::e
Public Schools, Parish ot Orleans, or its
legal successor, may levy upon all tax
able property in the city of New Orleans
a special tax not exceeding two mills
on the dollar of the assessed valuation
of said property (which special tax shall
be in excess of the tax authorized by
Section 17 of this amendment), wneu
ever (1) in the manner prescribed oy
Act No. 256 of the General Assembly of
the State of Louisiana for the yea
1910, and amendments thereof, or in
such other manner as shall be prescrib
ed by law. the rate of such special tax.
the number of years it Is to be levie i
and the purpose tor which the tax i*
intended shall have De-'n by said Board
submitted at an election to a vote or
the property taxpayeis of the City of
New Orleans entitled to vote under tne
laws of this State, who shall ha. e been
assessed for property in said city «»
shown by the last assessment made
prior to the submission ot the proposi
tion to the said property taxpayers, and
(2) a majority of the same in number
and amount voting at said election shall
have voted therefor. ') lie ievy by said
Board of any tax so authorized shall be
certified, assessed, collected and paid In
the manner prescribed by Section 17 of
this amendment.
Section 19. The Board of Directors
of the Public Schools Parish of Orleans
or lta legal successor, shall not capi
talize the wnole or any part of the
taxes which by this amendment it is au
thorized to levy, nor fund the same into*
bonds, nor borrow money in anticipation
of the collection thereof: provided that
said Board may, in any calendar year,
in anticipation ot' the collection of the
taxes of such calendar year and for the
purpose for which such taxes are levied,
borrow such sums as shall not be in ex
cess of the amount of Its uncollected
taxes of sucu year, and may issue . 1 »
notes or otiîer evidences of indebtedness
therefor, an 1 such sums, notes or othe
evidences of indebtedness shall be pay
able only out of the taxes ot the calen
dar year in which said loan or loans
are first male and for which indebted
ness shall not be payable out of any
other funds or moneys whatever; pro
vided. however, no moneys shall be bor
rowed by said Board for any other pur
poses than current purposes, and In no
event shall any money be borrowed by
sali Board to make or to pay for per
manent Improvements; and provided
further, that said Board shall not man«
any contract or incur any debt or obli
gation unless sufficient funds not other
wise appropriated, to pay and discharge
the same are actually in the treasure/
of said Board at the time of making
said contract or incurring said debt or
obligation and are specially set aside
and dedicated to said purpose, except as
may be hereinabove specially provided.
Haid Hoard shall annually and prior
to the b »ginning of the scholastic year
prepare u bu iget of its receipts and ex
penditures and said budget, before It
hecoir»s effective, must be approved Dy
the Commission Council of the City of
New Orleans, or its successor as t e
roverninp: boly of said City, &nd all ap
prop-iatlors bv or expenditures of said
Boa-l not included in the said budget
shat' l'kew se before becoming effect.ve
be sp' -oved by sail Commission Coun
cil or Its said successor;
Provided that nothing herein shall
••>e taken or construed as authorizing
he Commission Council or Its suc
cessor to change, alter, substitute or
eliminate any of the items of the
•udget thus submitted; the true in
tent and meaning hereof being that
:he said council or its successors shall
have no authority whatsoever In or
>ver said budget, exespf to the extent
jf ascTtaining whether the proposed
expenditures as exhibited by said
budget are within the probable and
estimated revenues of said Hoard of
Directors of the Public Schools, Par
ish of Orleans.
Section 20. The inhibition herein
established against the City of New
Orleans and the Board of Directors of
the Public Schools, Parjsh of Orleans,
or either of them, borrowing money,
anticipating their revenues, capitaliz
ing their funds or issuing notes of
other evidences of debt, shall apply
to all boards, commissions or bodies
created by or under the authority of
the Common Council of the City of
New Orleans, or its successor as the
governing body of said city.
Section 21. The provisions hereof
are self-operative, and the City of
New Orleans and the several boards
and bodies herein referred to shall
carry the same into effect.
Be It further enacted, etc., that the
amendment proposed by this act shall
be submitted to the electors of the
State for their approval or rejection
at the Congressional election to be
held on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday irt the month of Novem
ber, 1(916; that there shall be printed
on the official ballots to be used at
said election the words:
"For the proposed amendment to
the Constitution of the State of Louis
iana providing for the funding of cer
tain debts of the City of -New Orleans
and of the Board of Directors of the
Public Schools, Parish of Orleans,"
and the words:
"Against the proposed amendment to
the Constitution of the State of Louis
iana providing for the funding of cer
tain debts of the City of New Orleans
and of the Board of Directors of the
Public Schools, Parish of Orleans;"
and that each elector shall indicate
on the ballot cast by him, as provided
bv the general election laws of the
State, whether he votes for or against
the proposed amendment.
HEWITT BOUANCHAUD.
Speaker of the House of Representa
tives.
i FERNAND MOUTON.
Lieutenant Governor and President of
I th« Senate.
I Approved: June 8, 1916.
R. G. PLEASANT,
Governor of the State of Louisiana.
A true copy:
JAMES J. BAILEY.
Secretary of State.
Act No. 13
I
I
'
!
i
I
!
I
I
I
!
House Bill .No. 6. By Mr. Helntz.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Proposing an amendment to Article 118
of the Constitution of the State of
Louisiana on the subject of Juvenile
Section 1. Be It reeolved by the
General Assembly of the State of Lou
isiana two-third.» of «.11 the members
elected to each Hon«" concurring, uiat
the fifth Section Ot Article 118 of the
Constitution of th- B'ate of Louisiana
b% m* to* •*»« * r**i«*ia4.
Section 2. Be it further resolved,
etc., that this proposed amendment
shall be submitted to the qualified elec
tors of the State for adoption or rejec
tion at the Congressional election to be
held on Tuesday, November 7, 19)6.
Section 3. Be it further resolved,
etc., that on the official ballots to be
used at said election there shall be
placed the words : "For the proposed
amendment to Article 118 of the Con
stitutlon of Louisiana," and the words,
"Against the proposed amendment to
Article 118 of the Constitution of Lou
isiana," and each elector shall indicate
as provided in the general election
laws of this State, for which of th*
propositions he votes.
HEWITT BOUANCHAUD.
Speaker of the House of Representa
tives.
ETHELRED M. STAFFORD.
President Pro Tempore of the Senate.
Approved: June 16, 1916,
R. G. PLEASANT,
Governor of the State of Louisiana.
A f Me copy:
JA ? J. BAILEY.
icretary of State.
Act No. 28
Senate Bill No. 77 By Mr. Leon R.
Smith.
AN ACT
Proposing an amendment to Article
270 of the Constitution of the Slate
of Louisiana, relative to the voting
and levying of special taxes in aid
of public improvements.
Section 1. He it resolved by the
General Assembly of the State of Lou
isiana, two-thirds of all members
elected to each House concurring, That
Article 270 of the Constitution of the
State of Louisiana be amended so as
to read as follows:
Article 270. The General Assembly
shall have power to enact general laws
authorizing the parochial, ward and
municipal authorities of the State, by
a vote of a majority of the property
tax payers. In number entitled to vote
under the provisions of this Constitu
tion, and In value, to levy special taxes
in aid of public improvements, railway
enterprises, river transportation lines,
such as steamboat and barge lines, and
navigation canals; provided, that such
a tax shall not exceed the rate of five
mill« per annum nor extend for a long
er period than ten years: and provid
ed, further, that no taxpayer shall be
permitted to vote at such election un
less he shall have been assessed for
property, the year previous, in th*
parish, ward or municipality to be af
fected.
Section 2. Be It further resolved,
etc.. That the foregoing amendment to
the Constitution of the State of Lou
iana be submitted to the electors of
the State at the next election for Rep
resentatives in Congress, to be holden
on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November, 1916, and on the
official ballots to be used at said elec
tion shall be placed the words: "For
the proposed amendment to Article
270 of the Constitution of th»> State of
Louisiana," and the words, "Against
the proposed amendment to Artic'e 270
of the Constitution of the State of
Louisiana." and each elector shall in
dicate. as provid"d In the general »lec
tion laws of the State, for which of the
roposi' ions, "for" or "against," he
»otes for.
FERNAND MOUTON,
Lieutenant Governor and President of
the Senate.
HEWITT BOUANCHAUD,
Speaker of the Houze of Representa
tives.
Approved: June 23, 1918.
R. G. PLEASANT.
Governor of the State of Louisiana
A true copy:
JAMES I. BA TUET,
Secretary of F'ate.
Act Nb. 63
By Mr. Kantz, Chai- c", Pnnmit*»e or
Cltv A'fairs. Sr .■ i tut" for Hous«
Bill No. 178, b" '*r. Ilzrrett.
A JOINT RESOLUTION.
Propor-in r an amen i icat to the Con
stituiion of the 1" zte of Louisiana
granting to the City of New Orlean
power to co t
and operate,
Public Bolt
the City of N
tunnels aero
at or near Ti
various acts
eqt
mainlai)
h c ul by th«
'!! ' Commission o
o ! . t i » , bridges am
th ' Ti?f issippl Rive,
v < ' ' .ans, and to d'
neid n i! thereto am'
to the operation • imrailv of th«
Public Belt Railroad ; :v»tem of the
City of New (>• ' i •• and providing
for the submis i»u of raid amend
ment to the electors of the State foi
their approval or rejection.
Section 1. Be it enacted by the
General Assembl - of th» Suite of Lou
isiana. two-thirds of all the members
elected to each House concurring, that
subject to the ratification and approv
al of the electors of the State, th»
Constitution of the State be amended
by incorporatin'»- therein the following
provisions, to-wit:
(1) The City of New Orleans Is
hereby granted plenary and exclusive
power, by such means and methods as
It may deem meet and proper not in
conflict with the provisions of this
amendment:
(a) To construct, equip, maintain
and operate across the Mississippi Riv
er, at or near New Orleans, bridges
and tunnels for railroad and highway
use. together with all approaches, rail
road aqd highway connections, roads,
roadways, railroads, terminals, water
craft and other structures, Improve
ments, facilities and accessories there
unto appertaining;
(b) To acquire, by expropriation or
otherwise, the property, ownership,
use or possession of any lands or other
things necessary for the construction,
equipment, maintenance or operation
of any such bridge or tunnel and ap
purtenances; and
(c) To lay out, open, close, alter or
change the route of any roadway, non
navigable stream or drain over which
the approaches of sny such bridge or
tunnel, or over which any part of the
Public Belt Railroad system of the
City of New Orleans shall extend.
(2) The City of New Orleans Is
further hereby granted power, for the
purpose of constructing any such
bridges or tunnels arid appurtenances,
and for the purpose of acquiring the
lands or other things necessary there
to, to Issue Its obligations ln such
forms, numbers, denominations and
amounts, at such times and prices and
upon such terms and conditions as to
maturings, rates and payment of in
terest and final redemption as the seid
City of New Orleans may deem advis
able, subject to the following limita
tions:
(•D Except as may be herein other
wise provided, all such obligations
shall be secured solely and only by
liens and mortgages upon and against
such bridges or tunnels and appurte
nances. and the lands or other Ihin'-s
necessary thereto, and by a lien, and
pledge upon the net revenues derived
from the operation thereof, ar.d sba.il
be paid therefrom and from no other
source or sources whatsoever except
as otherwise stipulated herein, and net
by any tax or assessment or levy
upon any taxable property In the fHy
of New Orleans, nor out of any other
funds, revenues or things of value of
said city; the true Intent and meaning
hereof being that save and except to
the extent, out of the funds, and In the
manner herein stated, th»' rit.y of Now
Orleans shall never be liable for. nor
shall It assume, any debt, liability or
obligation incurred or created i • the
execution of the provisions hereof.
(b) During the period of construc
tion of such bridge-« and tunnels r rd
appurtenances, and durln i such tlm. «
as the revenues from the op-r -.ii -n
thereof shall not be sufficient to p.-o
vide for the Interest on, and for the re
demption of. anv and ail of ob
ligations h«reinabove author!.:- 1 o
fee Ueu»4, kH «usii y».«*«
ttons falling duo shall be redeemed and
all accrued interest shall be paid
from the net revenues of the Public
Belt Railroad system of the City of
New Orleans to such extent as may b*
required, after providing in the man
ner prescribed by Act No. 179 of the
Gent oil Ass- mbly of the State of Loti
isi-.n.i, »es->on of '.90S, for the pay
ment of the principal and inter*
any bonds
179 of
Uhorized
8. wheth
aid Ac
ht-rt tot
s'«
hereafter i.
( 3 ) Any
.sued.
bridg
e.s or tunne
Is and ap
purtenaurer
t >i
i»r*'of c«
«nstructed.
equipped. 1 !
n!:Ua
l-o-d or op
• trat i'd by
the City of
A- W i
ilr-eans und
er the au
tier.ty hei
•eby
<■ inferre !.
and all
other prop'
urty
acquired
by the
Act No. 84
House Bill No. 193. By Mr. Powell,
Chairman, Committtee on the Judi
ciary, Section "A," Substitute for
House Bill No. 3.
A JOINT RESOLUTION
Proposing an amendment to Article
148 of the State Constitution rela
tive to the District Attorney for the
Parish of Orleans, his election, quali
fication term of o..ico, compensa
tion, assistants and oillce force,
flection 1. Be it i> olved by the
General A »ein.«ly of me State of Lou
isiana, t». ...... ..... of th* marobera
elected hy »aci; t.vo-e concurring, That
Arie l« i I'-»- of the Constitution of the
btate ot Louisiana be so amended as
io i-w&d 6- •
Art!«*'» u*. -• shall be & Dis
KUit 4 Uv,*vj- for th* P*ri#4 if Çf»
_ gy -v *
of
City of New Orleans under th" pro
visions of this amendment, shall form
and are hereby constituted an
integral port of the Public P.t-lt
Railroad s. tern, as it now or as it
may hereafter exist, which said sys
tem the City of New Orleans is here
by authorized to extend and operate
in and beyond the Parish of Orleans:
and the Public Belt Railroad Commis
sion of the Pity of New Orleans is
hereby vested with the same powers
with respect to the Public Belt Rail
road system as well as with respect to
such bridges, tinnels, appurtenances
and property, th« ir acquisition, con
struction, operation and development
as are now vested in said Commission
by Act No. 179 of the General Assem
bly of the State of Louisiana, s- s-don
of 1908, with resp ct to the I ; lie
B»lt Railroad as presently establish
ed.
The Public Belt Railroad Commis
sion is hereby authorized without
prior authority or approval therefor by
the Commission Council of the City of
New Orlearfs, to expend out of any of
Its revenues and for the purpose of
constructing such bridges or tunnels
a sum net to exceed twenty-five thou
sand dollars on any one contract, pro
vided, however, that all disbursements
beyond said sum shall he made only
after they shall have been first author
ized and approved by the Commission
Council of the City of New Orleans.
(4) The Public Belt Railroad Com
mission, under such terms and condi
tions as It may deem advisable, shall
have the right to switch, handle or
convey, in continuous movement, for
any rgilroad, trains over such bridges
or through such tunnels and over the
main lines of the Public Belt Railroad
to the depot or yard of said railroad, or
to any union passen er depot or union
terminal of the Public Belt Railroad
system: it being understood that the
sole purpose of this provision is to fa
cilitate the movement of trains enter
ing the City of New Orleans on the
«•ast or west bank of the Mississippi
River. Under no condition can the
Public Bc't Railroad Commission
grant switching privileges to any
railroad over the Public Belt Railroad
system.
(5) Any bridge or tunnel construct
ed ar.d any appurtenances thereof, and
any lands or other things necessary
thereto, acquired or constructed under
the provisions of this amendment, and
any Rnd all property leased to or by
the City of New Orleans for the pur
pose of this amendment, during the
life of the lease, shall be exempt from
every form of taxation, special assess
ment or licence, and shall in o man
ner be hypothecated, leased or alien
ated except and only to further the ac
quiring of other property or proper
ties tor the Public Belt Railroad sys
tem, or to otherwise advance and
carry out the objects and purposes of
this amendment.
(6) The provisions of this amend
ment shall constitute a contract be
tween the holders of any and all ob
ligations Issued thereunder, t'*e Stete
of Louisiana and the City of New Or
leans.
(7) None of the protflslons of this
amendment shall be construed or In
terpreted so as to conflict with the
provisions of Act No. 4 of the General
Assembly of the S'ate «jf Louisiana,
session of 1916, being a Join! resolu
tion proposing an amendmer to the
Constitution of the fl'a'e providing for
the funding of certain debts of the
City of New Orleans and of the Board
of Directors of the Pu •d î e Schools,
Parish of Orleans, ctiv-ly, nor
as repealing, affecting, chan 'Ing or al
tering Act 179 of tb«c G»r.eral Assem
bly of the State of Louisiana for the
year 1998, authorizing the issuance of
two million dollars for bonds for Belt
Railroad purposes.
(8) That nil ihe rights, franchi"»»
and immunities herein gr-'nt> d shall
continue and exist on! - unon the con
dition that the construct 1 «»;-) of said
bridge shall be ac«i ely begun r.oi lat
er than May 1, 1920 ar.d that the
bridge shall be comple' d wf'* in five
years from the dite oi «he coin; i noe
meiu of the work: pr: i.ied, that after
the work of construction Ins be« un,
in the event of delays occr V,n«d by
litigation, strikes, paries tock-ou's,
failure of contractor or sub-corn roc
tors to deliver materials on contract
time, or of any con raclor or sub
contractor to complete work on con
tract time, or any delay occasion« d by
any act or circumstance over which
the grantee herein has no control,
there shall be and Is hereby granted
further ti ie for comp'etio", e/ual to
the period covered by such d"lny.<: and
provided, further. If 'he Congress of
the United Stat«-s sha'l, aft« r the con
struction of se.iu brio re has begun,
grant an extension of time «j.r further
delay for the completion of said
bridge, then such additional d«day
shall he and fr hereby, Ip^o facto,
granted under this Act.
Section 2. Ba it further enacted,
etc., That the amendment proposed by
this Act shall be submilwd to the
electors of the State for their approv
al or rejection at the Congressional
election to be held on the first Tues
day after the first Monday in the
month of November, 1916; that there
shall be printed on the official ballots
to be u«( d at sam election the words:
"For th- prop.T « d a n« ndment to
the ConstRution of the State of Louis
iana granting to the City of New Or
leans power to con truet, equip, main
tain and operate bridges or tunnels
across the Mississippi River at or near
New Orleans, etc.:" -nd the words
"Against the prop . »mendrnent to
the Constitution of ie Stato of Lou
isiana granting to tie City of New
Orleans power to construct, equip,
maintain and operate bridges or tun
nels across the Mississippi River at or
near New Orleans, etc."
And that each elector shall Indicate
on the ballot cast by him. as provided
by the general election laws of the
State, whether he vote: for or against
the proposed amendment.
HEWITT BOUANCTf f'O,
Speaker of the House of Rep« •»
tives.
FERNAND MOUTON,
Lieutenant Governor and President o.
the Senate.
Approved: Jr.fi«: 30, 1916.
it. G. FLEASANT,
Governor of the State of Louisiana
A true copy:
James J. BAILEY,
Secretary of State.
GOVERNOR TO ATTEND
FAI i C OPENING DAY.
With a decora : aaiomohil ■ :>i
rade, ado « - by Guv. It. G. Fit a n. it.
formally ushering in the Ivg en
tainment, and citizens of Shrove;, "t
celebrating the occasion as Shr
port Day and Pn s «nay, tiie open ;
day of the Louisiana State Fair i ;
year will be one of special inte:
to all tile visi'ors. It will he e p ■
ly interesting to Lou .-banians, f •
they will have Ihe opportunity nf :
ing and hearing their new gov r .
...any citizens have not had the pn -
lege of seeing Governor Pleasant to
date, but the opportunity will n<'
theirs if they aitend the State Fa r
on Governor's Day, November 1.
As usual, the business houses, pro
fessional offices and practically « 1
other places of activity will be clos !
in Shreveport at noon in célébrât i
o. Shreveport Day, and thousands f
the citizens will visit the fair groun
The decorated automobile pare ->
will precede the forçai opening f
the fair. It will pass through th t
downtown section, and then on out - o
the fair grounds for the Governor's
address and the enjoyment of the ex
hibits, shows, races, etc. Prizes will
be awarded to the best decorated
cars, one contest be : ng for city autos
and the other being for out-of-town
machines.
App'v to Secretary L. N. Rriiegg"»-.
hoff. Shreveport, for catalog, etc.
MAMMOTH SWINE
SHOW FOR FAIR.
If the inquiries received by tho=e
in charge of the prel minaries are t 0
be considered an indext to the inter
est manifested in the swine depart
ment, the display of hogs at. this
year's Louisiana State Fair. Novem
ber 1 to 6, will be record-breaking.
There will be several hundred fine
b'ceded specimens on exhibition in
competition for the many premiums
that, are ouered. and many other hogs
will be placed at the fair for sale. As
the general competition is open to th°
world, swine breeders from different
parts of the country will partic-'pa'e
in the mammoth show, and some of
the best known herds will be repre
sented.
Unusually attractive accommorl-t
tions are guaranteed the swine exhib
its. A new building was used last
year, but the swine display was so
large then and prospects this year
point to so much improvement tiiat
another bu id ng costing $10,000 has
been provided, almost doubling the
amount of exhibit space.
Prof. E. L. Jordan of animal indus
try. L. S. U , Baton Rouge, will be
superintendent, and Clias. A. Marker
of Auburn, ' »., will ne judge of Die
swine depar* ent.
For prem.i n lists, catalogue, etc.,
apply to Secretary L. N. Bruegger
hoff, Shreveport.
COLISEUM PROGRAM
FOR FAIR VISITOAo.
Louisiana State Fair visitors, No
vember 1 to 6 inclusive, will have the
privilege of enjoying the finest Coii
scum program ever offered by the
management. There will be enter
tainment of rare excellence every
evening in the large Coliseum, a
structure costing *.>o.000, with com
fortable, well-arranged seats to ac
eomodate a large audience, and with
stage so corstrucrtd that everybody
present can thoroughly enjoy all tne
features presented wuhou« any of the
outs'de attractions marring the pro
gram.
Chief among the CoPscum en*er
tairnn«'nt wi' 1 lie the concert each
evening by Thm'ii s Russian hand,
one of the world's foremost mûsical
organizations, together with several
soloists of groat ability. There will al
so be other attractions, including the
State Fair f—e acts. Those aftrac
t ons in the afternoon will be given
in frort of he. grand-tand, hut at
n ; ght they will be exclusively for the
pleasure of tne Coliseum patrons.
For catalog and other information
apply to Secretary L. N. Bruegger
hoff, Shreveport, La.
DE LOYD THOMPSON.
AVIATOR, AT FAIR.
Visitors to the I -»uisiana State Fair
this year, November 1-6, will have
the privilege of s* e : .rg one of the
world's foremost av ! atcfrs, DeLoyd
Thompson, go through his repertoire
of marvelous aerial stunts. Thomp
son's first performance is scheduled
for Friday, November 1, and his sec
ond appearance is announced for Sun
day. November 5. In honor of the
famous aviator, one of these days,
Friday, is designated Thompson Day.
and the oth"r, Sunday, is designated
Aviation Dav.
It is doubtful if there is an aviator
in the world who v.-ill take more dare
devil chance" than Thompson. Ills
wonderful perform nces cause spec's
tors to gaz-^ In almost breath'«ss
amazement At tremm.dous altitude,
when his machine looks like a mere
speck in the air, he loops-the-loop,
does the spira 1 glide, afld go«?a
through oth°r wonderful stunts v/'th
apparently as much ea?e and com nos
ur«* as an ordinary man would in a
gynasium.
Thompson has been among th« 1 s*er
attractions a* the Lmrsiana S ate
Fair the past two years, and each
year he bas new thrills in his reper
toire. S'nce performing here th«> last
time he has gained much additional
fame by flying at night over N«tw
York, and iat«>r over the Ration's capi
tol and V mliington's monument dur
ing a pr edness parade.
Don t fo Y'*t the date of the fair,
Novembc- * 6, and for catalog, etc.,
apply to tary L. N. Brueggt rhoff,
Shrevepo
For Infants and Chi» Iren.
The Kind You He'/s Always ôcnÿit
1 r»'en i; 1 li« e -f cui, gUss,
•-tt-brnc et'- , -»} •)•-, • to.'
l»4 , '*eV»4»S A* t*« *>-*• < «VtyA?»
.« — »-*(
