Sii
The first accident for many years
and the second in football history for
the local high school occurred Thurs
day evening when the high school met
the Normal eleven in a practice scrim
mage. Harold Coop was the victim.
His right leg was broken just below
the knee when he was tackled by Ol
iver Aas, a former high school player.
Just as he was tackled he stepped in
a hole, on the roughest part of the
field, which was not a football field,
but is being used at present because
of the lack of a field by the Normal
school. This hole was the cause of
the accident and not the tackling. It
is very unfortunate for Coop and the
entire sdhool and public have the deep
est sympathy for him at this time. He
is getting along very nicely at the
Riverside hospital. The accident was
not necessarily the result of football,
but unfortunately happened in football
practice and on a field not a football
field.
WESO CLUB MET WEDNESDAY
The members of the Weso club met
on Wednesday evening at the home of
Miss Gladys Schmoll, on Second ave
nue. There .was a very good attend
ance, about 20 members being''present.
The young ladies spent the evening
at music and crocheting, and in con
clusion a dainty lunch was served.
The next meeting of the club will be
held at the home of Mrs. C. A. Bloom
berg.
Bank Resources Over
Hundred Million Mark
Bismarck, Oct. 6.—'Resources of
state banks and trust companies, for
the first time, have gone over the
hundred million mark, exceeding that
figure by $72,000, according to the
statement issued this afternoon by
Examiner Johnson.
A gain of $9,000,000 over June 30 is
reported by 671 banks and four trust
companies. One year ago their total
resources were $72,000,000. Checking
accounts have grown within a year
from $19,000,000 to $34,000,000 sav
ings deposits from $1,900,000 to $2,
000,000 time deposits from $33,000,000
to $45,000,000 capital stock from $9,
100,000 to $9,100,000 total number of
banks from 641 to 673.
litchville Bulletin Editor
Hits Good Aato Trail Idea
Litchville Bulletin: Why not a Red
and-Yellow Trail from Valley City to
Aberdeen? There should be a con
necting link between the Red and the
Yellow Trails somewhere in this part
of the country and we believe that
Valley City, via Litchville, LaMoure,
Fullerton, Ellendale, Frederick, S. D.,
to Aberdeen, is the best place for it.
The Black Trail forms a connecting
link now, but it runs through the Red
river valley, which is under water in
wet years. Wouldn't it be a good idea
for the interested towns to get together
on this proposition during the coming
winter so as to be ready to mark out
the new trail in the spring.
Noltimier Township
to Have Second Fair
Noltimier township will celebrate
on the evening of Oct. 27. The sec
ond annual fair and harvest festival
will be held at that time, and- it prom
ises big.
The products of the home and the
fields will be put on display and in
addition a splendid program has been,
arranged. Among other, Mrs. Blum
enstine, Mr. James, Mias Larson and
the Valkota Quartet will appear. Dr.
Ladd is the speaker of the evening.
Lunch will be served at about 10:30
p. m. A cordial invitation is extend
ed to all to come and see the displays,
hear the program and find out why
Noltimier is the banner township of
Barnes county.
Noltimier's fair and harvest festival
was inaugurated last year by Prof.
Carlson, principal of the Noltimier
consolidated school. The fact that the
first festival proved very successful
ai'gues~-that die coming celebration
will be even better, and the people of
this section of the county will do well
to plan to attend.
Mrs. T, L. Hazlett, of Long Beach,
Cal., who recently arrived here for a
visit with old friends, is now visitiing
with friends at Leal. Mrs. Hazlett
spent a day here before going to visit
other friends in the county, including
relatives at Sanborn. Mrs. Hazlett is
a sister of F. J. Bignall, of Sanborn.
FORMER BARNES COUNTY
GIRL WEDS AT DICKINSON
Litchville Bulletin: Miss Clara
Beatrice Hemmer and William P. Jef
ferles were married at Dickinson last
Saturday, -Sept 30. The bride is a
daughter of 'Mr. and Mrs. John Hem
mer, formerly residents of this vicin
Ity and daring the past eight years
js'
V. C. Football Star Is
Crippled by Accident
1 1 *ir iim
SOLEN PARMER STEPS INTO
KNIVES OP GRAIN SEPARATOR
Mandan, Oct. 9.—Anton Thopiaa,
wealthy farmer living near Solen, suf
fered severe cuts on the right foot Sat
urday afternoon when he stepped into
the moving knives of a grain separa
tor. Others of the threshing crew im
mediately stopped the machine and
saved Thomas from the loss of his
leg, and perhaps his life.
A physician was summoned who
dressed the wounds. Although badly
cut the foot will be saved and ampu
tation will not be necessary.
Entertained Last Friday
for Popular Bride-Elect
Friday afternoon Miss Ruthe Myhre
was the honored guest at a pretty
party given by Miss Gladys Fridd at
her home on West First street. The
guests were bidden for 3 o'clock, and
arriving dainty refreshments were ser
ved. The afternoon was then passed
at playing three tables of bridge. Yel
low chrysanthemums were given as
the head price, which was carried off
by Mrs. William A. Moore. Mrs. E. R.
Roberts received a pretty pack of
cards as the consolation prize for hold
ing the low score. The card games
were concluded at 5:30, and the guest
of honor was then presented with an
electric grill. There were 12 present.
The past week a number of social af
fairs have been given for Miss Myhre
in anticipation of her coming mar
riage.
Dr. Ladd Will Visit
Barnes County Soon
Dr. E. F. Ladd, president of the Ag
ricultural college, will be in Barnes
county on Oct. 27. During the after
noon he is going to visit the schools
in the neighborhood of the city. In
the evening he will give an address
at the second annual fair and harvest
festival of Noltimier township. This
fair is to be held in the school and will
be along the same lines as the festivals
of last year, which proved to be very
successful.
MOVES ON OWN FARM
Litchville Bulletin: Henry Van
Bruggen on Monday closed up the deal
for the Charles Olson farm in Rosebud
township, and on Tuesday moved there
and took possession. Mr. Olson and
family on Monday moved to their new
home in Hastings, which is just ready
for occupancy. Mr. Giebink's farm,
northeast of town, which was leased
for a number of years by Mr. Van
Bruggen, has been rented by the Post
brothers, of Stutsman county, who
took possession the middle of the
week.
Southwest N. D. Has
Fatal Auto Accidents
Hebron, Oct. 9.—Carl, the four-year
old son of George Urban, president of
the Urban Mercantile Co., was instant
ly killed a few miles south of this city
yesterday when he fell out of the auto
mobile his father was driving and the
rear wheel passed over him. Complain
ing of feeling cold the little fellow
stood up in the car and either because
of the swaying of the car or because
he leaned against the door, the door
flew open and the boy fell out and un
der the car. While the car was not
heavily loaded and the shock might
not have been fatal to a grown person,
the little body of four was crushed.
Girl Badly Crushed.
Hebron, Oct. 9.—Jake Lindhele, 30
miles south of this city, while backing
his car out of the garage, ran over his
little three-year-old daughter, Lydia,
who ran back of the car. The child's
hip was crushed and she was other
wise bruised about the legs, but the
injuries aye not necessarily fatal. The
broken bones were set in plaster casts
and there is hope the child will not be
crippled.
His Pord Lost Wheel
G. H. Sahl, traveling salesman, of
Minneapolis, driving a Ford car owned
by W. R. Taylor, of Chicago,, saved a
collision yesterday, but at the expense
of the car. He was driving from New
Salem toward Mandan when he met
another car. The driver of the other
machine steered to the left. Sahl, to
avoid a collision veered his machine
sharply to the left, went over a bank
at the side of the road and smashed
off front wheel. He escaped injury.
Sheriff Was in Wreck
Sheriff Ben White, of Sioux county,
who was up from Yates last night in
connection with a horse stealing case,
narrowly escaped serious Injury. He
was driving toward Bismarck on the
ferry road and ran off the steep grade
on the approaching to the crossing
over the north line tracks: The car
slid down into the deep ditch, and
White and a companion were thrown
from their seats/ The car was some
what damaged and it was necessary to
set teMtftrtwiU^tliielc on thrroad.
IlilfeSlii
1
1
IIIIIIIIIIMIII!
The new high school field, the
"Peake Athletic Field," besides being
easily accessible, is a clipper for foot
ball. Thanks to Mr. Peake for his gen
erosity in furnishing this splendid lo
cation.
The next game here against Cassel
ton on Saturday, Oct. 14, promises to
be a game of unusual interest. The
blue and white warriors haven't en
tirely forgotten a 34-7 defeat of last
year and—well,, you'll be interested to
watch the boys next Saturday.
DEATH OP MARGARET LEE
Fingal Herald: Miss MaTgaret Lee
passed away Saturday morning about
3:30 at the home of her grandparents,
Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Lee, where she had
made her home since infancy, follow
ing a siege of pneumonia, the heart
weaking and causing death. Deceased,
who was nearing her twelfth birthday,
was a favorite in the home of her
grandparents and her death has caus
ed a sorrow which time alone can but
partially overcome. They, a mother,
four brothers and several other near
relatives and many friends sadly
grieve over her untimely death.
The funeral was held from the home
of Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Lee Monday aft
ernoon at 1 o'clock. Interment was
made at immanuel cemetery.
Mrs. Clare L. Brown, of Minneapolis,
is visiting in the city this week at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. George Von
Schultes. Mrs. Brown is a daughter
of Mrs. Von Schultes.
MELDAHL-LAMPMAN
Saturday evening at 8 o'clock, at the
home of Theodore Meldahl, Rev. Geo.
Jeffrey, of Wesley chapel, solemnized
the wedding of Miss Inga Meldahl to
Clifford Lampman.
The wedding, about which so many
questions were being asked the past
week or more, was performed in the
presence of members of the family of
the contracting parties. The service
and arrangements were simple, yet it
was one of the prettiest wedding ever
solemnized in this county. The bride
was becomingly gowned in her travel
ing suit of blue broadcloth.
After the ceremony, a luncheon was
served, such as could only have been
prepared on a farm. The table was
beautifully festooned with asparagus
ferns and bouquets of white and red
carnations.
Mrs. Lampman will be greatly miss
ed by a large circle of friends because
of Ijer loving disposition and charming
ways. Mr. Lampman is the son of
MrB. Sophia Lampman, who is engag
ed in fanning and an estimable young
man. Both Mr. and Mrs. Lampman
have many friends here and in their
new home, who extend the heartiest
of best wishes. They will be. at home
after Oct. 26 on the old Montgomery
fann,eight miles north of Oriska.
VOL. XXXVI—NO. 24. (Official County Paper) VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1916. (This Issue Twelve Pages) ESTABLISHED 1§7»
More Than 63 Percent Gain
The growth of deposits in the Banks of
Valley City compared with one year ago is a
matter of congraiulation to ALL our pet. pie.
Our progressive and enterprising bankers
must be pardoned for ^participating in the
general gratification.
THis Bank has shared generously in the
financial growth and shares also in the grat
ification. Our deposits have increased more
than 63$ In the past twelve months. No
Bank is more interested in advancing the best
interests of the city and its surrounding ter
ritory, and there is none where business is
more appreciated or better cared for.
BANK OF VALLEY CITY
VaDey City High School Trims
Jamestown Boys in Fast Game
I
The fight and determination of the'
local high school football warriors was
responsible for Valley City's victory
over Jamestown "high" on Saturday
afternoon. The game, considering the
fact that it was the first of the season,
was clean and hard-fought and on the
whole quite satisfactory.
Rathman, quarterback, was the star
performer for the visitors and seems
to be strating out for an even more
brilliant season than last year. Sever
al alterations in the local lineup at the
last moment, made necessary by the
injury of Ex-Capt. Coop, put a number
of the players at a disadvantage which
each man overcame to a surprising and
satisfactory degree. Weston and Bru
nelle, at the halves, were the principal
ground gainers for Valley, as could
have been said of Anfinson at full had
he been called upon to carry the ball
a greater number of times. Very com
mandable things might be said about
the playing of each member of the lo
cal team, the work of Capt. Bowen and
Elridge at ends, Gunderson and Martin
at tackles, Axel and Simenson at the
guards, Cook at center and Girard at
quarterback. One of the most encour
aging things of the fame was the fact
that after the visitors had made the
first score, Valley high "came back"
and before the final whistle had piled
up a total of 26 points and at the
same time kept Jamestown from fur
ther scoring. Final score 26 to 6.
Infantile Paralysis Now
Reported at Jamestown
Jamestown, Oct. 9.—The first case
of infantile paralysis to be reported in
Jamestown has occurred in the fam
ily of Mr. and Mrs. Promernke, in the
Third ward, and the residence and
family is now in quarantine, with two
children in the detention hospital. The
daughter, Martha, seven years of age,
was first taken ill Friday. Albert, ten
years of age, next .came down, and
both children were taken to the coun
ty detention hospital, where they are
being cared for.
The girl was attending the Franklin
school, pending repairs of the Lincoln
school, and the room in the Franklin
school has been thoroughly fumigated
and disinfected. The home, also, is
under strict quarantine.
Holiis Rural Lyceum
Course Very Popular
Fargo, Oct. 6.—That the rural ly
ceum course established by Prof. A. P.
Hollis, of the extension department of
the North Dakota Agricultural college,
is proving a great success, is shown by
the fact that at least one of the pro
gressive county superintendents of the
state has taken the matter up with his
teachers recommending the course for
their schools.
The letter in question is written by
C. E. Cavett, county superintendent of
Ransom county, a copy of which came
into the hands of Professor H0III9.
The communication is an indication of
what educators think of the system
of extension work and is in full as fol
lows:
"It would be very fine if you would
ha.ve a good entension course in your
school during the current year. I rec
ommend very strongly the course put
on by Professor Hollis, of the agricul
tural college. A couple of good box
socials would defray the necessary ex
penses, or they might be defrayed by
selling tickets to your patrons at a
very reasonable figure. I shall be
pleased to assist you in securing a
good course and I advise you to write
to Professor Hollis at once, get his
terms, talent to be furnished,etc. If
you need assistance in arranging for
finances, we can have a meeting in
your district and, I believe, sell enough
tickets to give you the desired funds.
You may do as you wish concerning
this proposition. However, I stand
ready to assist you and will do all I
can to help you secure a good course
if it is desired by your patrons.
"Yours sincerely,
(Signed) "C. E. Cavett."
In speaking of this letter, Professor
Hollis said:
"It is worthy of note that Mr. Cavett
does not sit down and wait for the
teachers to write him. He writes them
and offers his active service. The idea
of giving a couple of box socials to pay
for the- entertainment course is a nov
el one, and ought to be useful to many
small communities over the state.
"Mr Cavett has a great many con
solidated schools in his county, and he
is urging them especially to rise to
their opportunities and make the
school the real social center of the
township this winter."
The social center for the rural com
munity idea is one of the things that
Professor Hollis is working for and it
appears from the way the matter of
the rural lyceum course is attracting
attention over the state his idea is go
ing to do a great work.
PARALYSIS STOP INSTITUTE
Fargo, Oct. 6.—County Supt. J. W.
Riley has announced that the district
school institute, which was scheduled
to meet at Chaffee on Saturday, has
been postponed on account of infantile
paralysis appearing in that neighbor
hood some time^afo. The meeting will
be held later, justwhen has not been
decided at this time.
TIMES-RECORD
Frank Cook, of Sanborn, formerly of
this city, was a visitor here Sunday at
the home of his mother and sister,
Mrs. Gertrude Cook and Miss Anna
Cook.
Autoist Hits Buggy
J. W. Arnold Injured
Fingal Herald: While driving home
from town Tuesday evening in a bug
gy, J. W. Arnold, accompanied by his
son and hired man, collided with an
auto. The impact threw Mr. Arnold
against the windshield of the car and
then into a ditch at the side of the
road. He received a severe gash in
the cheek which required five stitches.
His hands were also badly cut by the
glass and he received other bruises on
the body and head. The hired man
was thrown several feet and bruised
considerably although not seriously.
Young Arnold was not injured. The
buggy was demolished and the horse,
being freed from the buggy in the ac
cident, ran home. Mr. Arnold walked
back to town and summoned medical
attention and is getting along as well
as may be expected, considering his
condition.
Postpone N. P. Trial on
Liquor Selling Charge
Plan Raise of N. D.
Motor license Tax
Was Held Up and Shot
Three Times Died Here
Moorhead, Oct. 6.—The case against
the Northern Pacific Railway Co.,
charging that road with operating an
unlicensed drinking place at the local
freight depot, which was to have been
tried in Judge G. H. Johnson's court
tomorrow morning,will not come up
for trial now before Tteaday, Oct. 17,
a continuance having been asked for
by the road.
D. R. Frost, of St. Paul, one of the
company's attorneys, has charge of
the case, and since the raid on the
freight station a few weeks ago, in
which a large amount of liquor was
confiscated, Mr. Frost has been inves
tigating the matter preparatory to
making a hard fight to the road's in
nocence of the charge.
County Attorney C. G. Dosland, who
is representing the state in the case,
says that he has all his evidence ready
and will be prepared to go to trial on
the date set.
Bismarck, Oct. 8.—A motor vehicle
graded license which would net the
state good roads fund $275,000 is being
drafted by tax experts at the capital.
The proposed law, which would im
pose upon the motor owners a very
moderate assessment, as comparod
with those of other states, contemp
lates a graduated schedule beginning
at $3 and running up to $25 for cars of
over 60 horse-power. The average
license fee would be $5 the car, and in
asmuch as North Dakota is slated for
55,000 cars in 1917, the first year's rev
enues would aggregate a very nice
sum. Even if two-thirds of the pro
ceeds from the automobile license
returned to the counties in which they
originate, there would remain more
than $90,000 which the state could uti
lize in meeting the requirements of the
Shackleford good roads bill. I
To date 40,125 automobile and 1,309 I
motorcycle licenses have been issued
for 1916. The total revenue has been
$124,302, all of which, after the ex
pense of administration, cost of tags,
etc., has been deducted, will be re
turned to the counties. The present
license fee is $3 flat, whether for a
motorcycle or a twin-six. With a
graded license fee averaging $5, and
with an increase of 15,000 cars, which
may be reasonably expected, the coun
ties in 1917 would receive 50 per cent
more as their share of the license
fees, after $90,000 had been paid into
a state good roads fund.
The total number of vehicles li
censed in 1915 was 26,415. The total
to date for 1916, 41,434, including
"bikes," shows an increase of 15,015.
Based upon the 1915 census, there is
now one gas rig of some type for
every 15 citizens of the Flickertail
state, which comes very near being a
record.
With the coming of the motor car,
there has been a corresponding in
creased interest in better roads. The
constitutional amendment enabling
the state to appropriate money for
road work carried in 1914 by a vote
of 47,387 to 21,054. At the general
election in November the electors will
vote on another amendment, twice
passed by the legislature and referred
to the people for a final endorsement
which will provide that indebtedness
for road work may be increased three
per cent over the five per cent of the
assessed valuation which previously
prevailed.
The new motor vehicle bill, in addi
tion to fixing the license fee for cars,
will provide a license of $1 for owners
driving their own cars and $2 for pro
fessional chauffeurs, while stricter
provision will be made for the fixinc
of blame in case of accidents. No li
censes will be issued to chauffeurs
professional or otherwise, under the
.age of 16, if tiie bill becomes a law.
r~^WR^
When train No. 2 on the Northern
Pacific arrived Friday night it brought
James Sherr, who had been shot three
times by holdup men near Bloom, a few
miles this side of Jamestown.
Sherr was riding on the engine
tender and said two men came over
from the head car and attempted a
holdup. In the melee Sherr was shot
three times, once in the jaw, once in
the leg and once in the abdomen.
Upon arrival here Sherr was taken
to the Riverside hospital. He was
weak from loss of blood and died Sat
urday morning at 10:30.
Sherr was one of the men in the
holdup at Medina last summer, and
had just served 90 days in jail at Jam
estown.
The shooting occurred in Stutsman
county, and the disposition of the
body will probably be in accordance
with instructions from the officials
there.
Burke Campaigning in
Northeastern Counties
John Burke, United States treasurer,
opened his campaign in the north
eastern section of the state on Mon
day, spending the entire week in the
northeastern counties.
Chairman Fred McLean, of the demo
cratic state central committee, announ
ces that Burke will spend Monday In
Grand Forks county, Tuesday in Walsh
county, Wednesday in Pembina county,
Thursday in Cavalier county, Friday
in Nelson county, and Saturday at
Finley, Steele county, where he will
visit the Steele county fair.
Hastings Has
Two Weddings
Hastings Times: Two Hastings's
best and oldest families were joined in
the marriage of Miss Clara Mathilda
Giste to Albert Norberg last Friday
afternoon, Sept. 29. The ceremony
was performed by the Rev. Martell, of
Valley City, at 2 o'clock, in the pres
ence of about 90 relatives and friends
at the Martin Giste home in Skandia
township.
James and Helmer Kulsrud acted as
best men and Misses Emelia Giste and
Alma Norberg, sisters of the bride and
groom, as bridesmaids, with Aileen
Norberg as ring bearer. The bride
was beautifully attired in while silk,
with bridal veil, and carried white
roses. The bridesmaids wore old rose
and the ring bearer, blue silk, while
the rooms were decorated in pink and
white. Miss Amy Graalum presided at
the piano. After the ceremony a most
elaborate wedding supper was served.
The happy couple are so well known
in this community as to make further
eulogy unnecessary, and the Times
joins the friends in wishing them a
long, happy and useful wedded life.
They left on Sunday for a wedding
trip to Ashland, Wis., and other east
ern points, and after their return will
make their home on the farm of the
groom's mother, Mrs. John Norberg.
The Hastings parsonage was the
scene of a quiet wedding Wednesday
afternoon, when Miss Ida, daughter of
Rev. and Mrs. I. L. Lasseson, and Olaf
Rudolf Mahlum, the younger son of
Mr. and Mrs. A. Mahlum, were united
in marriage. The ceremony was per
formed at 3 o'clock, by the bride's
father in the presence of only the im
mediate families of the contracting
parties. The bride and groom were at
tended by Anton Reiten and Miss
Clara Lasseson as groomsman and
bridesmaid, and Clarence Lasseson
and Miss Dina 'Mahlum as witnesses.
After the ceremony a bountiful wed
ding dinner was served. The newly
weds left on Thursday by auto for a
trip to Thief River Falls and Madison,
Minn., to visit relatives.
The groom is employed at the Rei
ten hardware store and both parties
are held high in the esteem of a large
circle of friends.
They will be at home on the second
floor of the Ole S. Reiten house after
Oct. 15. The best wishes of the com
munity go with them in their journey
through life.
McMILLAN-RIGGLE WEDDING
Wimbledon News: A very pretty
wedding took place at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. T. E. McMillan, on Wednes
day, Oct. 4, when their eldest daugh
ter, Elsie May, became the bride of
Harry 'M. Riggle, of Port Washington,
Ohio. Rev. J. S. Miller, of the Metho
dist church, officiated, using the ring
ceremony. The bride was attired in a
charming robe of white crepe de
chine with bead trimming. The
groom wore a conventional black. Aft
er a sumptious wedding supper the
happy couple departed for Outlook,
Sask., where they will visit the
groom's relatives for about two weeks,
after which they will go to their'fu
ture home in Ohio. The bride's trav
eling suit was of midnight blue French
serge with which she wore a large pic
ture hat A few Intimate friends and
Rer. and Mrs. Miller were the only..
IWMnmtilSt the' family. -ft"
