TNAM COUIi
COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, THURSDAY. OCTOBER 12, 1916.
NUMBEB 41
VOLUME XIV.
HERALD.
A DOUBLE WEDDING
GRENVILLE, N. MEX. DETROIT, MICH.
Dear Editor and the Herald Family: 1 Dear Editor As I haven't seen any
Will you allow me space in your val thing from this place will Jot down
uable paper for a little chat? How a few lines, having many dear friends
are you, one ana am 1 am geiung Dack in oia Tennessee,
alone nne. Am now in the school I i left Tennessee on
business trying to behave myself the came to Howell, Ind., and from there Norma Maude Hutcheson, of Cooke
best I can, teaching a school near to Evansvllle; from there to Detroit. I vlUe Mr Hubert Harris Haile. of
Grenville. This is certainly a fine, So I think I am here to stay. But. Flynn.B Llck. and Willette Narcissa
level, pretty country, about 6000 feet 0ht It gets cold here in winter. I . Htche80n and Dr. John Oliver Cum
aoove sea level, ana a cooi cuuuirj nave neen 101a uwi me luaiuuuaora mins both of Cookeville. The wed
Haile Hutcheso",
Cummin Hutcheson
I left Tennessee on Dec. 27. 1910, t tneir m f rienda wa8 tnat of M1
x UninAll ini anl TVAfU tnArA -
it Is. We have already had two little registers 22 below in the coldest
snows. . They tell me mere is oniy weather, ana you reaauy unaernianu
two mqnths without frost. They that is cold.
raise lots of cattle here. Farming is , i am employed by the Packard Mo
fine, tfut the seasons are very short tor Car Co., of this place. I am now
sure, while they make lots of everr rated at 42c per hour. We work nine
thing, and make it so easy. You can hours per day. Packard employs
wear a coat nere mosi any uny m mo -iijow men. ueiruu i mo ot
summer with comfort. city in the U. S. at present, and the
This, of course, is new country, home of 44 auto manufacturing
The people are certaialy sociable and plants. The principal industry of the
well to do. They are improving very city js auto manufacturing. Boys, if
rapidly. Many live in their under you fellows were up here and see
ground houses, but are coming out in Bome of the sights you would never
their nice, new houses very year. igo back to Tennessee again.
PeoDle take sreat interest in school . The Ford Auto Co. runs three shifts
work and they are soon going to have a day eight hours, he pays every man . nynnB Uck Jackson coun
fine schools for they have a good deal 50o for eight hours, but a man can ( Jg ft' buglnesa partner of his
of money and pay very good wages only get a position with the Ford pro h j prominent merchant
for teachers. While its true every vldIng he is out of employment. So ,"1 famer cummins, who is a
th'ng is high, here and it costs some lf any of you boys would care for any j dentist of Cookeville, is
ttilng to live. - information regarding this town, I - ? ' ofMr and MrB- j. h. Cum
Anyone wanting to locaie in a couu wouid d giaa to accommodate you. . father being a successful
fanner and the owner and director of
Cummins' Mill.
The two couples left Immediately
on an eastern trip. On their return,
Mr. and Mrs. Haile will be at nome to
their many friends at Flynn's Lick,
Tenn.; Dr. and Mrs. Cummins at 108
East Broad St.. Cookeville.
ding took place at high noon, Wednes
day, Oct ll,at the home of the brides'
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Alfred
Hutcheson, in the presence of only a
few members of the Immediate fami
lies.
The house was beautifully decorat
ed with autumn foliage and potted
plants. The brides were attractively
dressed in dark blue tailored suits,
and wore corsage bouquets. The
ceremony, by Bro. W. L. Karnes; was
short and impressive.
The brides are attractive and ac
romnlished young ladies. Mr. Haile
is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Frank
try where they can build themselves So wiU ciOBe by giving the editor my
up with the country can't very well Dest regards, also my father and
beat this, for there is a aemauu iur mother s ramiiy. i remain,
good teachers. And , another thing,
If you like to dance, be sure and come
for they have them almost every
night. We have a lot of pretty girls
that can ride these Western ponies
and dance. My, it's a sin to tne cais;
JOHN O. WARREN,
110 Grandy Ave., Detroit,- Mich.
EAGLE PASS, TEXAS
Tteur Herald Readers It has been
some time since you had a line from
- , - , BUUlc lime diuvv ;u ai -
Now of course, some of these th"1?9 me B0 the kind editor will spare me
I don't like very much, but cant help j j m try t0 you
it. For everything. I like Tennessee ahelwnappnlng9 on the Mexican bor
the better, while a young man can , der j wag released from the regular
make more monay here in the West. th 19t of la8t January and
Mexicans ttuu wmvo was out seven montns lacKing a iew
school and associate with each other. g Wag recaned t0 the army the
Soon as I get my debts paid, and in lgth Qf AuKUBt and Bent to EaglePass
shape I mean to come back ana nnisn Texaa place isn't so bad as
my college course anyway. . u Btay on the u. s. side of
Any of you Tennessee hoys wanting e"border, but if you go across, it s
a line looking Mexican girl, come out Jod iiflht
and I'll give you one oi mine, i, w . . t soldiers to go across
they are pretty, too, out l wve ine . . waB found next day
amiipn of the dear Tennessee girls.
With best wishes to one and all.
A. C. WHITEFIELD.
LADIES' AID SOCIETY
Mesdames Alex and Charley Rea
gan entertained the Ladies' Aid Soci
ety at the home of the latter, Monday
afternoon.'
The Aid is taking on new life and
as the year advances the attendance
becomes larger and larger and each
meeting finds either a new member
added or an old one renewing her in
terest, which shows the ladies are
realizing their duty.
The next meeting or tne Aia win
be with Mrs. C. S. Jenkins, Oct. 23,
it 2:30 o'clock, at which time the
election of officers will be held, as
well as other important business that
wilj come before the meeting, ana
each member is urged to be present.
During the social hour Miss Rebec
ca Reagan gave a beautiful musical
number, after which a delicious ice
course was served by the hostess:
REGISTRATION OF VOTERS
Notice is hereby given that the
Registration Books for the First Civil
District' of Putnam County, Tennes
see, will be open on Monday, Tues
day. and Wednesday, October 16, 17
and 18, in the Chancery Court room
Mt. View Lodge No. 179, I. O. O. F.
met with the Association of Putnam
at the Courthous n Cookeville.Tenn, County I. O. O. F. Lodges on the 7th,
from 8 o'clock A. M., until 9 o'clock inst at Baxter, with some 76 brothers
P. M. to afford an opportunity for all
voters of said district who are not
already duly registered to register.
This, Oct. 4, 1916.
L. F. STOCKTON,
BEECHER PHILLIPS,
ALGOOD MOORE,
Board of Election Commissioners
for Putnam County.
in attendance. The program for the
occasion was observed and 1 carried
out. The Grand Secretary entertain
ed the assemblage for about an hour
on "Some Reminiscences of Half a
Centura's Activity in the Order."
which was well received. During that
time the order has crown from 4.000
members and about 100 lodges to its
RECEPTION FOR T.P.I. FACULTY
The Parent Teachers' Association,
will give a reception at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Jere Whitson, Thursday
evening, October 19, from' eight to
ten, in honor of the T. P. I. faculty
and their wives, to which the public
is Invited. No invitations will be
sent out, except the announcement
in the press. The Association will be
honored to have all their friends call.
BIG REALTY 8ALES
Th National Realty Co. will on
with his ears cut oft and head caved neIt Wednesday, Oct. 18, sell several
in floating down the Rio Grande.The tracts of valuable land at public auc
other one they never heard of. Thetion. The land is in the SpringOrepk
j.... HniUn Vofa la nrottv hard. LAtAM thn rarta unrvin? from 26
Newspaper advertising is the moRt cllmate being so hot and we hav;to 180 acres in size, and are well lo
effective method of. reaching any com. Aq rd each oth night. You 1 cated, see page ad. for particulars,
munity. This has been -proven and 30Q roundg of v g army rlfle . L Felton may be,8een at the
is conceded by thousands of the most and tftke , from me they Centrai Hotel. Algood, any time prior
successful business firms of the coun & flnd have to sleen with t0 day of Baie. ' ,
iry. them around your waist, ana your
Believe me, 1 nave
. i.DiMtt d 1 pi in beside vou.
Hello Mr Edttor-Heaith in" this enough of the Mexican border.
Barkin Daws and brother are building j "f- ;VM
u nPW hoiisB. The big meeting is Co. C, 3d Inf.. Eagle rass, lexas.
progressing nicely at Caurise Chapel. .
' Mama said if any of her old school
mates were still living arouna can
1 Corn Club boys must show their
ten ear exhibit on Agricultural Day,
Oct. 21. Space for each club will be
set aside and the members of the
clubs place their exhibits together.
This applies to the hoys of Salem,
Shipley, Algood, Gentry, and Pleas
ant Valley communities.
BLAIR HARRISON, Co. Agent.
HAVILAND, KAS., R. 1
Snwinir wheat is all the go now.
lates were juu mu m, fine and dandv out here
er s a. noaas ior mem iu nio . - - , .
SaU Mercy Howe and Francis Tal now We ,have had a
lent were her schoolmatos, and if ! Hello How are you
, they are still alive, n wme w u a- vour letter the community. Cotton picking
nci auuiooo " ' , .i i .1,
WANETTE. OKLA.
A I haven't seen anything from
' Health is very good in this part-of
Hui-nlH nr tn her one.
Baxter, Tenn., Route l. nev. w. m.
soon.
I you
Coonie Thompson, when are geems to be the order of the day in
WAYSIDE NOTES
We have had 62 out of town visit
ors this week. Bloomington and
Chestnut Mound having several rep
resentatives.
We are nlanning on two big days
next week Field Day and Agricultur
al Day. Every one welcome.
The fire In the big fire place makes
the Rest Room an attractive stopping
place these cold nights.
Are you going to arrange to meet
some of your friends at "The Way
side" next Friday and Saturday?
FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
The pastor. Rev. A. J. Coile, will
preach at eleven o'clock on "Enlist
ment for Service." At 7 "p. m. the
service will be a discussion of "Health
Conservation" illustrated with stere
opticon views.,
Sunday scnooi s:o a. m. iat;a
for all ages, and a welcome to all.
A PLEASANT OUTING
A large party of Cookeville citizens
had a pleasant outing Sunday, motor
ing to McMinnville via the big falls
of Caney Fork and returning via
Spencer and 6parta. Those making
the trip were Mr. and Mrs. V. R. Wil
Hams. H. Aleood. R. L. Maddux, J. M.
Dowell, C. S. Jenkins, J. C. Darwin,
J. C. Shirley, R. A. Elrod, C. N. Elrod,
Mrs O. D. Massa, Mrs. Sam Edwards,
Mrs. Dimple Therrell, Misses Rosa
lind Algood and Clara Cox.
ANOTHER AUCTION SALE
On Tuesday, Oct. 17, W. O.Gloster
& Co., will sell the H. J. Farley farm
at public auction, at 10 o'clock, a. m.,
on the premises. . This is a good
creek bottom farm lying on the Cooke
ville and Smithville road.
On the same day the company will
sell the Mack Hunter property in Bax
ter, at 1:30 o'clock. See page ad. for
full particulars.
UNDER THE WINGS OF "POLLY"
Beautiful Lot For Sale
This lot is beautifully located just
South of the great school lennessee
nMDAnt nrnnirtinna Thfl I ft. O.SV
BACK FROM 8EBOWISHA (Home was highly extolled by several
I can heartily say. Home again, speakers, "clearly showing the great
home again; they can fry fish and care and attention being bestowed up
squirrel also, but I will eat no more, on the orphans of our deceased broth
I knew when Bud Lee began sing er8,
ing and whistling long and lonesome, I Bros. Bradford,' York," Pendergrass
the jig was up. No more fish frying, and C. J. Davis, are all understood to
no more squirrel skinning, no more be slightly improving,
groundhg hash. j The initiatory will be conferred at
All right, Bi'd, I will go with you. our next meeting, the 14th inst. All
We had a bang up time, as long as the that can should be sure to be in at
crawfish bait lasted. When you go tendance. , The more one knows of
fishing, take crawfish forfait. You the order, the greater is his zeal for
need never be afraid of snake bites attendance. Come, and learn more.
if you eat fish that is caught with i
that kind of bait
I told J. W. Brown that Is Double
ELECTION NOTICE
Notice is hereby given that
on
Springs Jim Brown that I and Bud Tuesday, Nov. 7, 1916, an election will
Lee could not eat a dozen squirrels, be opened and held at all of the reg
one a day. Jim laughed a sarcastic ular voting precincts in all of the Civ
laugh and said, "I bet I can eat that u districts of Putnam County, Tennes
many in six days ."Ah, James, James, ' Bee, for the purpose of electing a
you never ate many squirrels. (Representative from said county in
Frank Ward says he can eat more the next GeneralAssembly of theState
fish than anybody. I believe that I of Tennessee; a State Senator from
hnvo seen Frank eat fish it is like this? the 10th, Senatorial district; a
putting them in a live, box a little Representative in Congress from this,
wiggle and they are gone. the 4th Congressional district; Got
t w Bradford naid h wanted a cat 'emnr: a Railroad Commissioner for
fish, but did not have any scales.Sho, ' the Western division of the State of
Parker I sho. Marion had been taking Tennessee; and twelve electors for
crawfish bait, I think. President and Vice President of the
I feel so good that I wish I would . United States.
live 250 years anyhow. WE TWO.
This, Oct. 4, 1916.
L. F. STOCKTON.
BEECHER PHILLIPS, ,
ALGOOD MOORE,
Board of Election Commissioners
for Putnam County.
EAGO, ARK.
Hello to all the Herald readers this I
morning. "Will you let me Join your
happy band for a chat? Health Is
very good in this community, except
a few cases of hay fever. "
Wake up, you Tennessee people, I
ifftJTsSK how are you? Tueand left tor a short wedding
Puna, write a letter to the Herald. ; tr'P- .
I like my new home Just fln- 1 1
BAKER LOWE
Dr. W. W. Baker and Miss Ethel
Iiwfi were married at Momerey,
Dr. Baker is well Known in
rnnboviiin. He Is about 70 years or
rcmWonos7eyTabrhVsTeen sick 'age. while his br.de is around 20.
but is getting better. Dentls Blay . . CARD OF THANKS
lock and wife went to Eago last Sun
day.
W desire to thank the good people
- -nn1ra.rllla nrhn hpntnWprl unon US
Ul lUUftCIl'( "
W. H. DURHAM AND FAMILY.,
I try to keep up with the procession
" i n.ni. riiiwi frnincr to eet thin nart. aa everybody seems to be TivtBfhnto Institute and is 70x240
Hod and come to Kansas, rony njci
aJcZTZTns Thompson visited writer last Ban nt
Dinges raised her. ,T 'L -Lii r,d nnm' to Kansas. Pony nir.kmz. Cotton is 15 cents a lb. ft. hhrh and dry. nice shade and side
Come on wltn your ; leuers, iajik, j "T; wHt, it Sim w " it a ,,ithle nlace for a nice
It fronts on Walnut street
connects T.P.I. wltn
and Main St., and is
with shade ana siae
sides. You can buy
an hour for five days. Conley is almost bltna. tbis lot worth the money. .Buy u uu
Mr and Mrs Phy Allison and fam Misses Ollle and Delia Henry visit build you a house on it to suit your
ilv and Estes Bandy and family vis ed Mr. and Mrs. Riley Henry Satur j lndivldual fanCy. If you are Interest
Tal hv PrtRHov driven toward J. V.LA0anAa
-i t taa t ha n or nav nn n tiik wiiili w cio w u tj i cdiuuw.
ecmy name smce i i r,"'M;"-tnB ton of bl8 can off, ha, ha! Henry's home every Sunday evening, ;the Btreet that
aid last. ,x.A m no id h didn't mind the weather wonder why, Ollle? Ha, ha! 'the nostofflce
"' l' in, with thrBchMl' if the wind doesn't blow, but it has Benton Henry and ' family visited nicely graded
ir-you gett ng along with the school . tf . . of 75 mlle9 . c le home Sunday. Mrs.Mary : walkf on both
1 1 fr v t- i Hiiiui 1 ui ct t.uv r j
around the little school of Ensor
AM AN UA UAwn
BAXTER, ROUTE ONE
Health is very good here. Farmers
are busy in their cane
ih w.iior the other Sunday. 'dnv nieht.
iteu mo "..v.-. w ------ - i -isii i ji.. VI.
Estus Bandy and rony inompauii xinmon nenry is bhu ueuums .-.c
'ed see me at once.
ih h would be happy in Kansas head toward Wanette every Sunday
KlV K" " m . - . 1 A. 4. I
Thurman Jared and wife, visited if they had them a cook, run, '"" evening.
her sister Mrs. Boma Morphew and son made a flying trip to Kinsley the
family last week. . .-.'other day. I think MIbb Mandy Wil
Ensor school is progressing nicely nam8 will bo to Mooner.
under the management or K. lj. men ijVe soon
to
Wonder who Is entertain
net him Ha. ha!
Rfln.y Henry and family visited J.
V. Henry's home Sunday night.
I am going to ask for a snower or
SHERIFF'S NOTICE
By virtue of a Bill of Sale Issued
by P. Y. Jared, Circuit Court Clerk for
Putnam County, Tennessee, dated on
the 6th day of September, 1916, I will
expose to sale to the highest bidder
Ainn and Miss Effle Gentry. Mr and Mrs. James tsraiaen Tisaeu ; birthday caras uci. w. i wui u,wC f j cagh on tne 11n aay oi yvciu
araSOn ana , If-u i , , nnillnma laat Sim mv tAana hilt hptWPPTl mi? 1 VnWtr n m . fit the
P ana XVirn. oiu iiii""j u.m uut vm w uvr, xaxvf fl-w v viu", - -
it a aoriott la vprv low with heart Mr
-.. - j .ml nsnnrt a nice time. Ill and 19.
Hello Mamie Roberson. why don't. Qorda Carrington, why don t you my old friends and reljves have for
voT write to the Herald. answer my letter? I would be glad to gotten me. The onesslng mv
y Bakln Daws Ind wife spent Satur ee you all. Martha Scarlett, have age and Bendlng the prettiest card
dafnfghtwTh her father and mother y0U ever got married yet? Why don't wm reCeive my photo. All cards and
Mr. and Mrs. O. J. aryani. you write w u ""'' ""7 '.rk ."" nmr i
Lola Lee West, come on wun your Tennessee gins, you
.etters. they are fine. for Wade Dunavln for he has got a
Mr. Monroe Alcorn and Miss MolUe Mondar to Kansas. Hello, Martha
m loot snnHnv I r ttir.h t would like to see you.
CrTVES ft Tong and TaVp7Hfe: AVA CAMPBELL, j
.. Hello. Aunt Patsy Robe"on. whyj the mnt
VllkpP dl riaof Putnam
MAGUIK BKIAHl. will navo " -w"- "
I want to see if any of courthouse door in the town of Cooke
ville, the following property, town;
. "A tract of land situated in the 7th
Civil District of Putnam County.Ten
nrssee. and bounded as follows:
North by lands of Washer; East
DELLA FENPY,
Wanette, Okla., Route 1.
-f
9
t
Ex-Governor
EN W. HOOPER
Caadtdateor United States Senator, '
Election by popular vote Tuesday, Nov. 7
Will Speak in Cookeville I
At the Courtho use,
Wednesday, Oct. 18, at I P. M. j
i Ben Hooper is one of the stro if est speakers in the
state and has always enjoyea meeswem ui pci-
sons of all parties, particularly m ruiram
County, He is in fine fettle this cam
paign and will entertain all who
hear him.' ' Come out.
Ladies Especially Invited to be Present
I FIT EYES WITH
PROPER
GLASSES
Tht-re is only on' kind of glass, or
law, that jour ejs require. Any
other Kii.d i3 apt to d- them on in
jury. 1 fit e"ch eye spa'ately by un
erring tets tha! reveal every defect
My knowledge of the human eye
is suff-cl. rt to i':Bure that you re
ceive the K'aste ibst jou need.
Let me t-xaminejour eyes there
is no charge for advic Rnd my
charts for glasses are os small as
the cost of fclJFS- and framt-s you
require will p rmit. . ..
E. L. DUKE
OPTOMETRIST Cooketille
Offlc2nd fooT Gihonn BMr.-Northwwteor-
I r Public Eqoar
Mrs. Marlon Woosley has hay fever or uoov, u -lr.-J
thl ?b5LSf' ,.. nw'dously blessed us, and Amye is'now
Jt 1 won the road to recovery
Luther Brown went to see his best
erirl Sunday. -"'
Marion Woosley is out ouymg iim' ';y.r tn mv shoD
ber and won't be back for several w codatlon Cf my patrons
Tome on 1.1a Lee West, your let ' among : thto.. njo.
ters are just fine. f'Tna D. A. RAWLEY.
Abe Kimes Is working ror Miiiara . .""
Mfg. Co. They .will soon nave tne
stave mill ready to run.
Billle Read and Marlon woosley
went to Snowball last Wednesday.
Vera Llndsey has typhoid fever.
Hello, Tlva Clark, how are you?
Mr. Bowden from Eula, visited Mill
Town today.
A. H. Brown says he Is going to
buy him an auto, so he can ride over
those mountains.
Shirdon Brown likes to go to Mr.
McCutcheon. Guess he wants a cook.
DORA BROWN.
Brown's Music Store
For Sale!
THE
BEST BU8INE88 IN TOWN
FOR SALE AT COST
Wyly's Catchy Adv
hv innria nf J. W. Brown and others;
South by lands of M. E. West, and be
ing the same tract on which the barn
mentioned in said execution is locat
ed. The barn is also levied upon.
Containing 15 acres. more or less.
Levied on as the property of S. C.
Johnson, to satisfy a balance on cost
In case of J.W.Brown vs.S.CJohnson.
This. Oct. 4, 1916. I
L. -P. MILLER, Sheriff
PIEDMONT, MO., R. 1
Health 1b tolerably good in this
community. Cutting cane and gath
erlng corn seems to be the order of
the day. There was a sad occurrence
last Saturday morniilg. Mr. Ace Jul
ian took sick about 11 o'clock Friday
night, and before 7 o'clock Saturday
morning he died. Don't know what
the cause was. We have no promise
of tomorrow, and so we all ought to
tho anmmnna comes.
for we don't know when it will come.
Wishing yMls SMITH.
NOT THE ONLY ONE
There Are Other Cookeville People
8'mliarly Situated
Can there be any stronger proof of
fered than the evidence of Cookeville
residents T. After you have read the
following. Quietly answer the question
Walter Crawford, telephone line
I man. Cedar St., Cookeville, says:
; "Heavy lifting ana sirauuuB i
work disordered my kidneys. My
!back ached intensely and I got so
sore and lame that I had to lay off
rrom work. I had severe headaches
and dizzy spells and the least cold
settled on my kidneys, making my
back worse. When a friend recoin
mended Doan's Kidney Pills, I got
'some Wyly's Drug Store. They rellev
ed the pains in my back and put my
kidneys in good shape." .' .
i Price 60c, at all dealers. Don t im
ply ask for a kidney remedy get
Doan's Kidney Pills the same that
;Mr. Crawford had. Foster Mllburo
Have been in the music business'
over 20 years and my sales have run
thirty five thousand dollars a year,
but on account of bad health I have
decided to cult business. Prices are
greatly reduced now. If you are not
ready to buy, get ready and come
where goods are cheap. I will still
sell on the installment plan and you
nan nnv monthlv without security. I
One of the most attractive bits of have most all kinds of musical instru
advertising of its kind ever done in ments, sewing machines, an supplies
Cookeville Is being done now at the of all kinds. If you are going to buy
Strand Theatre by Wyly'sDrug Store. : in two or three years you had better
The advertisement consists of a . buy now, while the goods are cheap,
short reel of regular moving picture I am going to sell out.
reel and portray cupid shooting into Thanking my thousands of -custo ,
a large heart, breaking it Into nine mere for the liberal Pf-fW.""
pieces which form into nine smaiiiMw k-" "l",7"
hearts. These nine hearts line up place Public Souaro, oo Ljva. e, ua
and blend into nine letters spelling til I clone out my stock.. Your best
"Nunnally's". Around this word is friend for music. Again thanking
built a large outline heart enclosing you for past favors, I am, ,
this wording: ' . -j Respectfulyyours,
"Cupid's choice, Nunnally's fine JE5 En
candles fresh dally, Wyly's Drug' 1 buy all my gocarrom Chicago.
Store " N"W YorK ana tirfiun
WANTED
- I WILL BE IN COOKEVILLE
Friday, October 20th i j
J To buy Mules and Horses -from 14-1 to 161
: : hands high, 3 years old and up ; "
Bring in your mules, I will try to buy them
and will give you market price
Hube Grissim, Jr.
?M 1 1 1 1 1 M M I II 1 1 1 1 M 1 1 M tt I M I M M i M !
!l 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 H 1 1 1 1 H 1 1 M 1 1 1 1 n n i i i i " " " " '
iCo, Props., Buffalo, N. Y.
