II
Dtate Historical Eociet;
EPUBLICAN
ANEY
Konsviii, MlSSOl'IM, THUUSDAY. (THKK 1-2. l'.HC,
M 1 ;trcs.
T
JL
County
Vol. !. No 4S.
s
For President
v. -its, v
A
v. I:
4 . V
ry"; fx
J ' yA&ly I VN1
Sy. 4 - sv " y I'S'Uiis
BMMW Ifii II
22
CHARLES E:- HUGHES
Missouri is a bij, gund, rich state, ' with the hope that his friends will know
with the resources of an empire. Some how to help take a proper revenge
of these arj undeveloped, but their; without being told.
presence and availibility are unques
tioned. They call for the application
The Democratic Stite Committe
liuucu l iicy Laii ii'i l ii ajiiiuahivju , i. J
,, . , . , , , . should provide another bi? tent ana
of hrge capital in the hinds of men (f . ,.
foresight and courage. Many of these
i turn
it over to Messrs. Atkinson,
, . , . . ... 1 Koich, Linnsev, iJarxer, fainter ana
... , ., I Hmchin, as an a'.rstar cast, to make
soun by the repealed manifestation, i . , . .
, . , , . , , . . i the territory they covered berfore the
in elections and otherwise of ths spirit i , , , , , .
... ji.,.. pnmiry for the purpose of taking
of mossbackism and bourbonisrn. A . . , , ,
... .. . . , , back ' the perlectly true statements
Republican victory and particularly the ! '
, ,. . . . . , . ... I they made of Gardner.
election of a great business leader like '
Walter S. Dickey to the Senate, would
be the sienal to these waiting; and tim-;
id investors that they could safely bring! Eniol w Ma-,r dances his way into
OD ineir muuey aim pui u iu ivi.ssuun t,)e rin, tQ sla? Qa lh wflst tne lrejn
enterprise. The election of Judge new bunch that is trying to ignore him
Lamm would be to t'lem the necessary 1 amj his KreU 'z0' administration,
assurance of another kind that they
would be welcome. Why not tell! 0 lh; Wihon plan of giving the
them to cone on. Everybody will profi: ; other fellow his way and letting him
from the presence and activity of the , C1" our Cltl2en3 an 1 uest,y onr Prop
i ... . ,j i
The campaign in Missouri can
i se.irce Iv be said to have beeun until
money they tHTg.
That little i isid -the-partv war be
tween President Woidrow Wilson and
SenBtor Ji;n Reed, wiiic'a wai very bit
ter "ne ti ne a-j, ii te.n;)or.uily su
spi 'nderafligof tra:e. E'c'a
needs tne other lor a few weeks, but
along in November, when each will be
in a position to blame the other for
what has happened, the scrap will
break out more virulent than ever
erty with impunity, we could have
kept out of the war of 1812 an l the
civil war. Too bad he didn't have
Wilson tiien to do cur surrendering
lor us and thus, temporarily at least,
sib expenses.
Judge Lamm figures that the present
state administration will be $2,500,000
in the hole bv the time it closes. Un
less the Jefferson City gang can find
some way to blame this big deficiency
I Ths Njrth Pays.
j "Let the Njrth piy th uw," is
I the sliin of ih D :;n -cra!ic Congress
recently adjourned. And that slogan
was lived up to. Nothinj better illus
trates that than the munition tax, cai
ried by the K.tchin bill now a hw. As
that bill wjs originally passed by the
House, it levied a h aw tax upon the
manufactures of munitions, but coup
led wvh the urinuina tax wis a special
tax on the prrductii n it copper. Tlie
theory of the House was that copper
e iters ;.'ir,i''l', n '.o th manufacture cf
m .i: t i.s. an 1 as in : co,p r pr. da
e:s lu e been r. -aping l-'rg-; profits
during the i.at ca, they, a!$J . hmld
v tax "d.
V. h :n 'he bill g.n to the S n 'e,
here w.-.s an prisms' ? iiiis' '.If
C i; ! I tax. "W:i" sr.'l the U " ;
C.Mtti: senators Iri in M.mtic-i ai.ti .; z
ona big cotip'.-r i-d.i-:ii !'
should cop.pi t be txed w'di.; -
ircm, lead, zinc and cntton which t i,t
into the nunufa:ture i. inurations (tui.
as much cr n.cre than epper go un
taxe.1?" Tne q-nstion proved cinban
asin;. and it look th- Finance Corn
m.ttei- tiiree we-ks to frul the ar.siv r
Warn the aiiw.'r rime, the S-i.ate
discovered ih. t the Fmanct Committee
had distrbuttd the copper to cover
iron, sterl, lead zinc awi cotton.
Thai was a shock to the senators
fioin the cotton growing states of the
South. Thry never would consent to
a lax on cotton not even on cotton
entereing into the manufacture of ex
plosives. So the south as represented
in the Senate got together, decided to
eliminate the entire tax cu raw miter
ials, but to disguise their hand, let
Senator Ashurst of Arizona make the
motion in the Senate. This he did
and out went the tax on raw materials
including the tax on cotton from the
South, on lead and zinc from Missouri
and steel and iron from Alabama. And
all that was left was the tax on the
munitions, which are manufactured ex
clusively in the North.
'But we must make up for their loss
of revenue in some way," said Senator
Simmons of North Carolina, chairman
of the Finance Committee. "Sure"
replied his Committee, and straightway
the income tax, 90 per cent of which
is paid in the North and West, was
given another boost.
All of which merely illustrates how
the South which is in control, manipu
lates the piesent democratic congress.
i lea. So is this idea ol sending Amer j
ican l.irm-'rs and schoolmates into
Mex'co to br- welcomed, as Tom Cor j
win p it it, "wi.h bfnody hands to
hospitable graves." Thev have before
then, both as inci tiveai.d encourage
ment, th- ex, v rier.ee c f hundreds cf
American m-n and women engaged in
a su;i;!ir vo-' ao noncd bv their own
government to nfir 1 -r, lobbery and
rape.
For in-fnee. th r, is the cae cf
the teichrr vh was li 'ld as a member
of Vii: t' h-ue-n f -r many weeks il'a
being the rh,on! : m of hum m libi tty
Sena or Leds sivs this governm-;nt at
one time int -.jded 'n r cigniz, and
who ! at tne ti'iie tightii.g with m
munition larnish d hi n thrmgh
the consid ration o! th ' Wi'son admin
istr.i'.ion. Tirs w.-nnn t-'U t'v t--rv
in a r ve-rlv p'.t'-.s.te'l in m -ztn : a- iei-
of hi a- minvriirhs w re waipp-l a'nt
beaten to death bf aus tney r-vste-'
ntranc into trie r-orn-rs cf hotischol-i
in a ' 1 1 ' a i -1 d 'jy ih." "jieojile's fruiuiss"
who c joy-d ti e friendship vf the . res
national administra ion for so num
iti,i:;':is, an I in wrws n Ii ir Ann r.i an
sailors ii rt ai V. r Guz i.i Pr-siiieT
W. )! d..-m )tv-'r n agtin! H-i-r-.
the nndfsir.dile cifz-ri to ah' in V lit.
the cattle thief, murderer and n;iM
was preh-r:. d bv the administration'
temii r con'-lence.
The Usages of War.
President Wilson owes it to himse.l
and to the country to admit frankh
that war serves a multitude of purposes
For Vice-President
0
0
' J 4 N P- i
f
'5 4
CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS
C"i. Fred Ih (uidmr, we are told ; Reed defeated ihe:r city ticket last
in a Dcnio.-; t'tc t;ewsp:i-f?; wants very s rir.g, or u; watds of eighty thousand
lor the DemocMtic party. Evil it may j muc, l0 arc..i Jmle Lamm's char : otliet Democra's in Mi-sotiri who knew
For the present, each contents himself ou the European war, they are lost.
For United States Senator
t 'j'-t
t Y K ttV' " V
Another American Inconsistency
The members of the Carranza-Wilson
commission seem to be deliberating
net upon the international problems
which alone could give it legal and
rational cause fot being, but upon the
domestic politics of Mexico, We
have again and again been assured
that it was our bounden duty to let
the Mexicans work out their own sal
vation, even at incidental sacrifice of
American life and property, but now
we have a commission that is deliber
ating upon Mexican domestic problems
of Uxation, finance and rehabilitation.
This doesn't seem to fit in very well
with the theory of letting the Dons
do it, but it has long been understood
that this administration has one set of
theoiies to talk about aud quite an
other set to wor'i on.
The latest suggestion from the con
ferees is that Mexico shall be invad
ed by an army, not with guns, but
be and disastrous in its effects but it
has cer ainly saved the admims'raticn a
lot ol fruitless explanation and argu
ment.
It lias, for example, enabled the
Democratic party to asseverate, with
rather noisy persistency, that there has
been something Wilson has kept the
country out of.
It has enabled the benignant Mr.
Redlield, President Wilson's Secretary
of Commerce, to explain why the cost
ol living is increasing.
It is used by the same gentlemen
as the occassion for denying that the
exportation cf war supplies has any
thing to do with the countrj's pros
perity.
It has enabled the Administration to
bolster up the failing revenues by levy
ing a ,ax on munitions.
It is used to demonstrate the sagaci
ousness of President Wilson in uphold
ing the rights of American citizens on
the high seas.
It is given as the reason, by way of
appology to the pacifists, for the be
laled recognition by the administration
of the need of prepardnesss.
It affords a convinent explanation
why anything in the last three years
has gone wrong, although it accounts
in no way for anything that has gone
right.
President Wilson may display an ab
horrence of war but for his campaign
managers the word seems to have a se
ductive and cheering sound.
Senator Reed declares that the men
with money are supporting Walter S.
Dickey for Senator. Well, we should
hope so. But so are the men who
want a chance to cam money and,
among others for that very reason.
lenge for a jo;nt debate on the Card ; cf a got-d kjsou or two fur opposing
ner Land Lit, but t::o Ih mrcratic him.
committee tvrar.riz -s cur pmr Cd. j '" ...
. . ' , , . And wlvrn January 1 conies, with its
Gardner is enough tn provoke gem r d
. ,. . , ., ,. ; reve'ukn to the railway emp.oyees of
indignation. But m th; iv.atter n-.iv , , '
, , -..1 i , o-i J whit they hive and haven t got, Woou-
be the committee kno vslcst. U ho
... row Wil-.on will, in one form or another,
can tell? ; , , , , , . , ,. . ,
; be wholly beyond the n-ed cf political
The election o! Walter S. Dickey to ! utanee. 1 :s fact u oegmcu g to
the United States Senate from Missouri break n on the ni.ffiy :uea.
would go further to restore the state's
. , . , . , ir.e so cauta answer oi ui.
impaired reputation among indus.ru.
,. ii. 'Gudntrto Judge Lamms attacks on
investors than could any other fact or v'"k " h
t. iii.- mi- ,k HIS pel loan om uuca cuijians
event. It would bring millions to the , . . .
state.
The trouble with the state govern
ment at Jefferson City is so wide spread
and deep seated that it can only be
remedied by a complete clean up.
This mtir.t come in the form of the
entire Republican ticket beaded by
Judge Henry Lamm. An application
ofreir.idial doses in spots wont help.
A lull change, with an opening of all
the books, is the imperative remedy.
but answer. It constitutes added
evidence ol the weakness of the bun
combe law.
The enthusiasm cf Col. Gardner's
opening at Chil'.ic. the might possibly
have been improved by a compliment
ary of loaded canes of the justly cele
brated Gardner brand.
The Democrats are insisting that the
federal reserve act has been a great
national life-saver, but when they enme
The Democratic press bureau speaks ' to enumerate the "salvation," they all
of Senator Rerd as "a national leader." ; occurred before the thing was passed
It should be known, however, that this and while the Republican Vreeland law
does not include the Democratic "ran wns doing business rtbi the same
bits" of Kansas City, who believe that j line.
For Congressman, 14th Dist.
Republicans must not forget to do
all tbey can to promote the election of
wite Plows an l school books in it, Republican candidates for congress,
hands. American farmers are to teach Every man on the Republican activity
the peons how t plow -and reap, and i will make it a good chance Tne fate
America! schod teacners are to in- f prosperity rami m.y uCi-.u vu
struct the Mexican idea how to shoot, this activity. A Republican Senate
alt .cu knowing how to shoot seems ja House are absolutely essertial.
to ie natural attribute cf the Mexican ! n you j.ingeu uy mc K'"k-'
mind, esoec ally when 'he target is Henry Lamm is putting into this cam
grmg) or i i , r i -.it , .1 t.-r. ipa.gn campaign, you would guess that
This i., rr .o.oiy th m.'st tiea "ltiiul h': was a young man. And he is
intTiiatl-iiril idr.a thai has been d .vel- n spirit.
oped fince the da.s of tne Children'
CrJeatr' when tens ol thousands cf
bos aT i ' 1 1 ' ' '
pdih that c-i q .
' the mailed warriors na l inied ' -i:ni
've. That was an ' - v W . - fn- rd, n aim Reed tell you
bm in u n vv ' ' S- Diekev is a rich manu-
never came home. 1 i.e w. ie -rju- Uetur.-r. call their attention to the fact
ed at l i, massacred, or carried into lhat Mr. Dickey began ai a $50
ilavety. Yst it was a perfectley lovely entry clerk and made his own success.
A .
fell ( :
f
A
v'
I Some people had tie idea that ttes
'lidmt Vilnn was a statesman and now
r fi'ioin' on' thai he's only
1
I",
1.
f
S?i
i ;
S f
i
r:
x
, 4
J
If .
1
'ii
DAVID W. HILL
