rm
n
MES
VOL. XX NO. 178.
BARRE, VERMONT, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1916.
PRICE, OXE CEXT.
THE BARRE BAIL!
MAY DEMAND
INDEMNITY
For American Cargoes Lost
with Ships Sunk by
U-Boats
AWAITING DECISION
BY GOVERNMENT
U. S. Destroyers Return
from Search for Sup
posed Lost Crew
Washington, D. C, Oct. 12. Rear Ad
miral (ileavcs, commanding the Atlantic
destroyer flotilla, reported to-day his per
sonal belief that no steamer Kingston or
Kingstonian was sunk by the (Jerman
submarine 17-53. After several days of
search, the- destroyer force tound no evi
dence that a ship by that name was in
the vicinity. If ("leaves' theory is cor
rect, only live ships were sunk.
Government officials are pondering the
question whether the United State
shall acknowledge the raid of the Ger
man submarine as legal. Westing on the
determination of this nations attitude
toward the work of the U-53 is the mat
ter of soliciting indemnity for American
cargoes lost with the sunken ships.
Tli submarine situation shows signs
in oficial qunrters of having been prac
tiddly cleared up. While no immediate
steps are in contemplation for the actual
establishment of a naval neutrality pa
trol, the navy department has a definite
plan if the campaign continues. The en
tire- destroyer force, assisted by light
cruisers, navy tugs and other auxiliaries,
would be employed to protect American
territorial waters. .
ALLIES DEMAND
GREEK FLEET IN
ULTIMATUM
They Also Declare that Greece Must Per
mit Allied Control of All Material
for Naval Operations.
i'aris, Oct. 12. Details of the demands
made on the (ireek government by the
commander of the allied naval force at
I'ireau nhow that he required Greece, in
addition to her fleet, to permit allied
control of all material for naval oper
ations, as well as mail, telegraph anil
railroad. The ultimatum set forth that
such control is necessary in order to
render impossible the uso of the navy,
railroad, etc., to the detriment of the allies.
NO OPEN DISCUSSION
Of Submarine Question in Reichstag, It
Is Declared.
llcrlin, Oct. 12. The most notable in
cident at the opening of the Reichstag
was supplied by Major Bassermann, lead
er of the Liberals, in a report from the
budget committee, that, although it had
been unable to reach a decision on the
submarine question, it had voted against
a discussion of the subject in open session.
RED SOX LEAD
IN FOURTH
Brooklyn Scored One in the
Second on Battery
Errors
BOSTON'S HITS WITH
DODGERS' ERRORS
TO LIMIT IT FIELD.
Scored Once in the Second
and Twice in Third
Inning
STILL PURSUING.
EIGHT STEAMSHIPS HELD UP
Pending Decision Whether Sailing Would
Be Safe.
New York. Oct. 12. Kight or more
sti'ium-iliips Hying the flags of the entente
allies are awaiting advices from the
agent of those governments as to wheth
er it is now safe to leave port for Euro
pean ports in view of possihle danger
from the German submarine. The White
Mar liner Adriatic is to sail to-day.
Shipping men believe thj submarine is
on bcr way to her base, probably Helgo
land.
Teutons Are on Trail of Rumanians and
Beat Back Second Army.
Berlin, Oct. 12. Teuton troops are
pursuing the Rumanian forces on the
whole eastern Transylvania front, says
an official statement. The second Ru
manian army has been driven back.
Innings l 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Totl"
Brkn.O 1 OEQnnC 1
Bost. 0 1 2EnZZJEZZ
BAYONNE PLANT
IS UNDER GUARD
While Thousands of Strikers From Oil
Plants Are Maintaining a Dead
Line.
U. S. NAVAL PATROL
Is Said to Be Watching the Atlantic
Coast.
New York, Oct. 12. Indication that
an American naval patrol has been placed
on duty was given when a steamship
from Cuba reported that off the Jersey
coast this morning an American de-stroy-I
er dashed up through the mist and circled
the ship.
ITALIANS WIN
BIG VICTOR?
Captured 6,400 Austrian Prisoners, Most
of Them in New Drive to Gain
Triest Several Lines of
Trenches Taken.
Rome, via London, Oct. 12. Italian
troops lighting.in the Carso region south
east of Gorizia have resumed their march
toward Triest, capturing several lines of
Austrian trenches and more than 6000
prisoners, says the official statement of
the war office yesterday. In addition
they have occupied strongly defended
heights between the Yippac river and Hill
208, taking quantities of arms and mu
nitions. Through successes on two other fronts
the Italians captured 1400 additional pris
oners. The advances were made in the
Cosmagnon sector on Pasubio in the
Trentiuo and on the front of the Julian
Alps between Sober and Vortorba, north
of Gorizia. The Austrian line on the
Julian front was broken, the statement
adds.
The statement reads:
"On Mt. Pasubio keen fighting through
out yesterday ended most successfully
for us. During the previous night the
enemy made strong counter attacks
which we repulsed and at dawn in unfa
vorable atmospheric conditions our
artillery and trench batteries resumed
their heavy bombardment ot the enemy s
lines.
"The infantry then took the whole
close net work of entrenchments which
the eueniv had constructed in Cohsmag
non, going as far as the crest of Mount
Menerle and the lower southern slopes
of Mount Roite. So far 5300 prisoners
including ten Officers have been reported
and also a considerable quantity of arms
and ammunition.
"In the Travignola valley on the even
ing of October 9 the enemy in a sur
prise attack in force succeeded in break
ing into our advance trenches at some
points, but was promptly driven out.
"On the Julian front yesterday there
was an intense artillery duel which in
the morning was hindered by fogs. In
the afternoon our infantry made a de
termined attack east of Yertoebizza and
broke the enemy's line between Tobar
and Vertoiba, capturing 8H) prisoners in
cluding 2." olbcers and also three ma
chine guns.
"On the Carso after the intricate de
fenses of the enemy had been destroyed
by an intense and accurate artillery and
trench mortar fire our infantry captured
almost the whole of the line composed
ff several successive entrenchments be
tween the Vipaero river and Hill 208 and
advanced beyond it. Novavilla and the
adjoining stnung position around the
northern part of Hill 28 also fell into
our hands after brisk fighting."
Bayonne, X. J., Oct. 12. The streets
approaching Constable Hook to-day re
sembled an armed camp. Thousands of
strikers from nearby oil plants main
tained a dead line across approaches to
these plants. Inside this line, between
the strikers and the oil plants, nearly
100 policemen were stationed m the hre
engine house, guarding the plants from
attack.
A woman was killed and two men
probably mortally wounded and a half
dozen less seriously hurt when the police
last night fired a volley into a crowd of
Standard Oil strikers and their svm
pathizers which was demolishing a fire
engine. The engine had responded to an
alarm and was being held up by a bar
ricade raised by the. strikers.
GREETINGS FROM MOTHER CHURCH
Were Extended to Protestant Episcopal
"" Church at St. Louis.
St. Louis, Oct. 12. Greetings from the
mother church to the Protestant Episco
pai Uhurch of the United Mates were
presented by representatives of the
Church of England with impressive cere
monies at the joint meeting of the two
(houses of convention of the American
church in triennial session.
Funds saved in mite boxes by thous
ands of American Episcopal women in t he
last three years for women missionaries
were presented at the altar on a golden
alms basis. The counting of the money
was continued through the morning.
Greek Revolutionists Choose War Minis
ter. London. Oct. 12. General Zimbrakatis
bas been appointed minister of war in
the Gre.'k provisional government or
ganization, which is being completed at
talonJti.
GERMAN CASUALTIES
IN WAR NOW 3,556,018
Total During September Alone Was 179,-
884, Says an Official British
Statement.
London , Oct. 12. German casualties
from the beginning of the war to the end
of September were 3,550,018, nccording to
an official British compilation as given
out here yesterday. The statement says:
"A report compiled from German offi
cial casualty lists shows the total Ger
man casualties in September as 170.884,
bringing up the totals since the war from
the same source to 355(l,018."
The text of the statement as issued by
the British official press bureau follows:
German casualties exclusive of correc
tions, reported in the month of Septem
ber in German official casualty lists,
were:
Dead 32,282
Prisoners and missing 32.25!)
Wounded 115,543
"These added to thoBe reported in pre
vious months, including the corrections
reported in September, total since the
war:
Dead 870,182
Prisoners and missing 428,829
Wounded 2.257,007
"The figures included all the German
nationalities."
They did not include naval casualties
or casualties among the Colonial troops.
It should be noted that the figures do
not constitute an estimate by the Brit
ish authorities. They merely represent
the casualties announced in the German
official lists. Also that the casualties are
those reported during the month of Sep
tember and not reported as having been
incurred in September."
Braves' Field, Boston, Oct. 12. "Bat
tery for Boston, Shore and Catly; for
Brooklyn, Pfeffer and Meyers," yelled
the umpire at 2 o'clock this afternoon
when the fifth game of the world series
was started with Boston leading, three
games to one. .Manager larrigan sent
Shorten to left field in place of Walker.
The lineup:
Boston. Brooklyn.
Hooper, r. f Mvers, c. f.
Janvrin, 2 b Dauhert, 1 b,
Shorten, c. f Stengel, r. f
Hoblitzel, 1 b Wheat, 1. f
Ix-wis, 1. f Cutshaw, 2 b
Gardner, 3 b Mowrey, 3 b.
Scott, s. s Olson, s.
Cady, c Meyers, e,
Shore, p Pfener,
First Inning.
First innrhg. first half. Mvers fanned
on three pitched balls, without offering
at anv of them. Cadv threw out Dun
bert at first. Scott took Stengel's
grounder and threw wildlv to first. Sten
gel, however, was held at first. Wheat
fouled out to Hoblitzel. .No runs, no
hits, one error.
First inning, second half. Cutshaw
threw out Hooper after the count was
three and two, Mowrev threw out Jan
vrin. Shorten died to Wheat. No runs,
no hits, no errors.
American Fidelity Company to Operate
Only in Vermont.
Charles H. Darling of Burlington, pres
ident of the American Fidelity company
ana m. is. miley of Montpelier, vice-
president of the same concern, returned
this morning from Boston, where they
met the insurance commissioners of Ver
mont, New York and Massachusettts in
regard to an entira change in policy of
the company.
President Darling stated this morning
that all of the coniany s business out
side of ermont has been o. will be rein
sured with another company, most of i
with the National Surety company of
New York and that with the approval of
the Vermont commissioners, Guy W. Bai
lev and Walter F. Scott, the local com
pany will confine its field of business en
tirely to Vermont.
When the company commenced busi
ness several years ago. it handled only
ermont business, but gradually m
creased its field until it bad represents
tives in a large number o states. A
success was not made of the liability de
partment and the business has been grad
ually reduced until at present there are
only about a score of employes in the
nomn omce.
With the re-insuring of outside busi
ness it means, stated President Darling,
that tne present force will be reduced
within the next few weeks to a small
force of clerks hut not a suspension of
business. Providing the plan meets with
the approval of the Vermont insurance
department the company will endeavor
to build up again, handling only business
in crmont.
PARENT-TEACHERS MEETING.
Second Inning.
inning, first half.
Second inning, first half. Cutshaw
walked on four pitched balls. Mowrey
sacrificed, Hoblitzel to Shore, Cutshaw
moving down to second. Gardner threw
out Olson at first, Cutshaw reaching
third. Cutshaw scored on a passed ball.
Scott threw out Me vera at first. One
run, no hits, no errors.
Second, Inning, second half. Pfeffer
threw out Hoblitzel. Lewis shot the ball
to the left field for a three-bagger. Low-
is scored on Gardners sacrifice flv to
Wheat. Seott sent up a high foul to
Mowrev, who dropped the ball. Scott
went out on a foul to Meyers. One run,
one hit, one error.
Third Inning.
Third inning, first half. Pfeffer struck
out. Gardner took Myers' easy roller
and threw him out. Shore took Dau
bert's grounder and nailed him at first.
No runs, no hits, no errors.
Third inning, second half. Cady sin
gled over Daubert's head. .Shore fouled
out to Meyers, trying to bunt. Hooper
walked, lady going to second. Cady
scored when Olson fumbled Janvrin's
grounder and then threw wildly past
utshaw. Hooper went from first to
third on the plav. Janvrin was safe at
first. Janvrin was out stealing, Mevers
to Olson. Hooper scored on Shorten's
blazing single to center. Shorten out
stealing, Meyers to Olson. Two runs,
two hits, two errors.
Fourth Inning.
Fourth inning, first half. Stengel sent
p a lofty fly to Shorten. Wheat struck
out. Shore took Cutshaw a weak tap
and threw him out. No runs, no hits, no
errors.
Fourth inning, second half. Hoblitzel
walked on four straight balls. Iwis
sacrificed, Daubert to Cutshaw, Hoblitzel
going to second. Cutshaw threw out
(iardner, Hoblitzel going to third. Olson
threw out Scott. No runs, no hits, no
errors.
Vermont Branch Holds Its Sessions Amid
Much Interest.
Ftiirlino'fon fW 1'? Tli.
nesterday afternoon and evenim? of the
annual convention of the Vermont branch
of the Mothers' Congress and Parent
Teacher association were attended by
about 60 delegates and much interest
was manifested in the reports of the
officers and papers by several speakers.
The delegates were welcomed by M.
Irving J. Cobleigh of Burlington, the re
sponse being by Mrs. C. V. H. Chan of
Rutland. Miss Ktta Frankling of Rut
land spoke on "The Beginnings of the
Parent-Teachers' Association in Vermont
and What It Ha Done for the Child."
"Getting the Vision," was the topic of
an address by Superintendent G. L.
Spaulding of the Windsor eat district,
and "A Span of Mothers was the sub
ject of a paper by A. . Hewitt of
Plainfield.
Last evening Mrs. F. G. fwinnerton of
Rutland, state organizer, gave a report
of the national convention, H. L. Hindley
of Rutland spoke on "The Newspaper and
the School," and Superintendent Everett
V. Perkins of Woodstock gave an address
on Hie teachers Isolation.
Mrs. H. A. Harrnan of Rutland, pres
ident of the Vermont branch, gave her
annual address, and Superintendent H. B.
Casey of the Springfield district, spoke
on Some Wavs in which Parents and
Teachers Can Co-operate."
MRS. PEARSON
AGAIN AT HEAD
Orleans Woman Elected as
President of the Vermont
State W,C.T.U. To-day
OTHER OFFICERS
WERE RE-ELECTED
Greater Publicity for Tern
perance Work Is
Desired
SHOT HIMSELF IN HEAD.
DROP KICK NOT ALLOWED.
Frank H. Sherman, Sr., of Castleton, De
spondent Over Illness.
Castleton, Oct. 12. Frank H. Sher
man, sr., 63 years old, committed suicide
by shooting at his home north of this
illage yesterday. He had been in fail
ing health for the last two years. About
year and a halt ago he fell on the ice
and fractured several ribs and he was
also afflicted with tuberculosis and other
troubles.
Mr. Sherman had been a patient suf
ferer for many weeks but had grown de
spondent and on the night of his death
his wife, who was in the room with him,
heard him cough ana then heard a re
volver Bhot, the man having placed the
gun on a chair beside his bed.
Mrs. Sherman immediately summoned
Dr. R. II. Seeley but the wounded man
lived but a short time. The bullet took
effect in his head.
Mr. Sherman hud lived in Castleton
practically all his life, having come to
this town from Lewis Center, N. Y.,
when nine years old. He is survived
by his wife, three daughters, Mrs. Ellis
Williams of Fair Haven. Mrs. Leslie Me
Mahon of Glens Falls, X. Y., and Mrs.
Charles Brown of Castleton, and by four
grandchildren.
SHOT THROUGH BODY.
Brattleboro Boy the Victim of Compan
ion's Carelessness.
G0MPERS TALKS TO MEXICANS.
He Protests Against Cairania's Drastic
Decree to Prevent Strikes.
Atlantic City, NT. J., Oct. 12. Samuel
Gompers, president of the American Fed
eration of Labor, protested Tuesday to
the Mexican members of the Mexican-
American joint commission against dras
tic decrees of the Carranza government
issued with the idea of reducing the num
ber of strikes. The commissioners in
formed Mr. Gompers that decrees were
not of a sweeping character and that
they were designed to meet specific cases
involving the paralysis of public service
concerns in Mexico. Mr. Gompers' pro
test was based chiefly on a decree that
provided the death penalty for those
striking or conspiring a strike. He ex
plained that his motive in appealing for
support of the working men bv the gov
ernment was a desire to aid organized la
bor whether in the united States or in
Mexico.
Montpelier Seminary and Montpelier
High School in Scoreless Tie.
A scoreless tie was played on the
Montpelier seminary gridiron this fore
noon by Montpelier seminary and Mont
pelier high school, although Montpelier
high booted the ball over the crossbar
once, only to have the score disallowed
by Referee Allen Reid of Barre because
of offside play. Montpelier high school
gained in rushes about eix times as much
ground as the seminary but failed to get
the ball across because of fumbles or loss
of time. The nearest they came to a
touchdown w-aa at the very end of the
first half, when the highc.hool blocked a
punt and Blair recovered for Montpelier
high on the seminary's three-yard line.
lietore the high school could put on a
rush time ws called.
Gross made the drop kick which was
disallowed, standing on the 25-yard line.
Later in the game another drop kick
failed to carry. The lineup wa aa fol
lows: Seminary. High School.
Marr, re le, Mack
Ramadall, rt It, Jerd
Parker, rg Ig, Barrett
Arkley, c c, Morse
Lyndea, lg , rg, Campbell
Jeffrey, It i rt, Blair
Holway, le re, Kelly j
Granai, qb qb, Gross j contested
riau n, mo rtib, Nmith
Owen, fb fb. Laird, Pembrooke
St. Mary, rhb Ihb, Clark
Referee Reid. Umpire Hoernle. Head
linesman Pitkin. Timekeeper Davis.
Time Four 12 minute periods.
Brattleboro, Oct. 12. Harry Anderson,
13. is in the Memorial hospital with a
bullet wound through his bodv. While
his condition is very serious he has a
chance for recovery. With Gordon Rugg
he was hunting yesterday aiternoon in
the vicinity of Elm Corners. Rugg was
behind Anderson when he attempted to
cock his 22 calibre rifle. The gun was
discharged and the bullet passed com
pletely through Anderson's body, going
through the liver. William Relden.who
was with them, ran to the nearest house
ami telephoned for a surgeon and Rugg
shouldered his wounded comrade and car
ried him several hundred vards before
meeting assistance.
HEARD BARRE SUIT.
M.
E. Hale vs H. J. Slayton, Alleged
Wrong Attachment of Goods.
The case of M. E. Hale vs. H. J. Slav-
ton, trover, was taken up in Washington
county court this forenoon before Judge
F. L. Fish. The defendant is a deputy
sheriff and attached goods in the Hotel
Northern of BuiTe which the plaintiff
claims did not belong to the party
against whom a suit was brought
Organized temperance workers of Ver
niont, here for the 42d annual convention
of the state Women's Christian Temper
ance. union, elected their officers for
li)IH-l!tl7 at the second forenoon session
in the Bedding Methodist church to-day.
n practically every instance, the office
holder was honored with a re-election.
Mrs. M. I.. Pearson of Orleans, who has
been the faithful head of the organiza
ion during the past year, was re-elected
president by acclamation. The remain-
er of the slate is as follows: Vice-resident-at-large,
Mrs. Gratia K. David
son of Newfane; corresponding secretary,
Miss Elsie L. Pease of Swanton; record
ing secretary, Mrs. E. B. Tumor of St.
ohnsburv; treasurer, Miss L. Grace
Prior of Morrisville; auditor, Mrs. Inez
H. Stewart of Morrisville.
The business session will be continued
oward the end of the afternoon, and
fter a meeting of the executive commit-
ee nominations will be brought in for
the election of the remaining viee-presi-
tents. lielore adjournment at 5 o clock,
legates to the national convention will
ave been named. When the" delegates
Mourned for dinner, it was expected
that the resolutions committee would be
ready to report some time in the after
noon. .Much interest was manifested in
the business of the morning, and there
was a year's accumulation of odds and
ends to be discussed, but the officers
handled the matters expeditiously, and
by 11 O'clock the convention was ready
for the annual memorial hour.
This forenoon a movement took shape
to enlist the aid of the state press in
giving publicity to the forthcoming con
vention of the national W. G. T. V,
which is to be held in Indianapolis. Ind.
early in November. With scarcely an
exception, the delegates were in favor of
arranging for a special service whereby
newspapers in Vermont, daily and week
ly publications, may keep their readers
informed as to what will transpire at
the hig November gathering. It is pro
posed to furnish the press with advance
copies of speeches, etc., and to provide an
all around service that will cover the pre
convention arrangements as well, as the
ctual proceedings that take place after
the delcgntes are seated.
Devotional services at 0:30 o'clock this
forenoon were in charge of Miss Ellen II.
Wagner of Milton, who is at the head of
the graded schools in Sheldon. Almost
the entire quota of delegates and officers
participated in the song and prayer.
There were a number of informal con
ferences during the forenoon, but inter
est centered largely around the business
meeting that Was to precede the noon
day adjournment.
A Presbyterian clergyman. Rev. Edgar
Crossland, was in charge of the services
last evening, when Mrs. Annie Tilling-
hast of Beverly, Mass., delivered a nota
ble temperance appeal in the form of an
address on "Democracy and the Liquor
Traffic. Probably every religious de
nomination in the city was represented
in the congregation, and a large number
of scats reserved for children were filled
some time before the service began. Rev.
Mr. Crossland opened the service with
a prayer and scripture reading, and music
Was contributed by the regular church
choir.
Seemingly from a dozen different an
gles, Mrs. Tillinghast attacked the nega
tion of democracy m the liquor traffic.
She had a storehouse of figures and facts
at her. command, .and all were moulded
into a strong argument for the abolition
of what she designated as the most un
democratic institution in America, the
sale, legalized and illegal, of intoxicating
liquors. In her scheme of all things
democratic, the speaker made no compro
mise with alcohol in its lighter forms,
preferring to include every kind of alco
holic beverage in the category of drinks
to be banned. It was one of the reveal
ing addresses of the convention, and
from the o.itset the congregation was
seriously attentive. In the afternoon,
pledges for state work were received by
the committee, and the results were
wholly indicative of a renewed effort on
the part, of the W. C. T. U. to carry the
work of organized temperance crusades
into every corner of Vermont. Rev. Ma
bel T. Winch of East Arlington contrib
uted many valuable hints in her address
on "Educating Public Sentiment." In her
own community, temperance workers
have achieved notable results, but her
address before the delegates was not con
fined wholly to her observations in a
limited field. She gave her hearers the
benefit of a wide experience in the minis
try and her remarks were truly appre
ciated, j
Delegates heard with considerable dis-1
may this morning that Mrs. Ida H. Read
of Saratoga Springs, N. Y., would be un
able to attend the convention. Mrs. Read
had planned to arrive in the city in time
White ribbon recruits will be introduced
just before the convention adjourns for
the afternoon.
This evening at 7:30, Rev. B. J. Lehigh
of the First Baptist church will lead the
devotionals and afterward there will be
the following program of speaking, the
participants having been chosen from
several groups of young men and young
women in the citv: "The Man of the
Hour" (Grote). Richard F, Cruickshank;
The Madonna of the Tubs" (Phelps),
Miss Marguerite Currier; "The Everlast
ing Whisper" (Tinling), Miss Sylvia
ltizzij "Blunders," Howard W. Geake;
"The Story of Patsy" (Wigcin), Miss
rianon V. Anker: "Waterloo, Our
Fight" (Conner), Miss Loraine Loranger.
WELCOME GIVEN
TO CO. II BOYS
AT MONTPELIER
Parade Was Held This Forenoon and a
Banquet Will Be Given This After
noon, Followed by Dance To
night in Montpelier.
City Hall.
Headed by Chief W. A. I'attee of the
fire department and former captain of
Co. H, the police officers and Montpelier
Military band, with forty odd tfitomo-
biles bringing up the rear and Co. H,
First Vermont regiment immediately aft
er the band and the cynosure of all eyes,
a Columbus day parade brought out a
large number of people at Montpelier this
forenoon.
The parade was formed in front of the
rmory on Main street and marched up
Main street to School street, swinging
around by the Lane shops and thence to
the city hall. Co. H, divided into two
squads, present an admirable appear
ance and was accorded hearty applause
along the entire line of march. Auto
mobiles carried the members of Brooks
post, G. A. R., and fraternal organizations
and labor unions were represented, also
Spanish-American war veterans. In an
automobile nearly at the end of the line
were Senator William P.'Dillingham, Col.
Ira L. Reeves, Lieut. Col. Fred B. Thom
as and J. B. Estee, president of the Mont
pelier board of trade, under whose aus
pices the parade was planned.
This afternoon a banquet will be
served to the members of Cb. H in the
city hall and to-night a dance at which
the soldiers will be the guests of honor,
will be held in the auditorium.
GIRL BURNED
VERY SEVERELY
Was Playing Vn Matches
When H'A Clothes
Toe Fire
SAVED (0M DEATH
JsY A NEIGHBOR
Daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A,
Cardini of 2 Grant Ave.
Was the Victim
With deep burns about her thighs and
abdomen, the four-year-old daughter of
Mr. ana -Mrs. A. lardini, who recently
moved from Foster street to 2 Grant ave
nue, is in a critical condition as the re
sult of playing with matches in the yard
at her home late yesterday afternoon.
Where the child found the matches is a
mvstery to her mother, who rushed to
the yard when she heard cries and saw
the little girl's dress enveloped in flames.
At about the same time Mrs. Henry E.
Foster, who lives in a house nearby, dis
covered the child's plight and hurried
to her assistance with a rug. Probably
Mrs. Foster's quick action saved the
child's life.
Dr. M. L. Chandler was called and bad
burns from the knees to the abdomen
region were dressed. A portion of the
child's apparel was consumed by the
flames and the remainder had to be
sheared away from the burns. Last night
there were grave fears that the victim
would not survive, but her condition to
day was reported to be slightly improved
and there is a possibilty that the burns
win not prove fatal.
HOMEOPATHIC SOCIETY
Held Annual Meeting at Montpelier E.
B. Clift President.
The fitith annual meetingof the Vermont
Homeopathic Medical society was held
in the parlors of the Pavilion hotel at
Montpelier yesterday afternoon and last
evening. The following officers were
elected: President, E. B. Clift. Fair Ha
ven; vice-president, W. H. Hodsdon, Rut
land; secretary, G. I. Forbes, Burlington;
treasurer, F, K. Steele, Montpelier; cen
sors, E. B. Whitaker, Barre, F. E. Steele,
Montpelier. Edward Kirkland, Bellows
tails; auditors, . R. Noves, Brattle
boro, F. H. Everett, Castleton, C. E. Lib
bey, Danville; legislative committee, W.
E.'Loeke, Bradford. W. B. Mayo, North
field, E. B. Whitaker, Barre, Oorge , I.
Forbes, Burlington. C. A. Gale, Rutland,
Sam Sparhawk, Burlington. Two new
members were elected: Dr. Frank Wheel
er and Dr. Hodsdon. both of Plainfield.
Dr. E. B. Whitaker and Dr. Edward
Kirkland were nominated as candidates
for appointment on the board of medical
registration.
Following the election of officers the
society listened to the address of the re
tiring president, Dr. A. A. Hall of South
Woodbury. A paper on "Indigestion"
was read by 'Dr. George. E. Morgan of
Burlington, which was followed bv a gen
eral discussion of gastro-intestinal dis
orders.
The society entertained as its guest
Dr. F. W. Patch of Framingham, Mass.,
who read a most instructive paper on
"Some Pitfalls in Intestinal Diagnosis."
Dr. Patch addressed the society at the
evening session, also speaking of medical
education, especially as connected with
Boston university and illustrating his re
marks with lantern slides.
It was voted to hold the next annual
meeting in Rutland the fourth Wednes
day of May, 1017.
R0WELL BROCK.
PLEADED NOT GUILTY.
, E. Stygles Charged with Operating
Auto Without License.
0. E. Stvgles, the Stowe farmer who
was driving the automobile which left
the road near Waterburv a week ago
and caused Justin Marshall to sustain
injuries from which he died several days
later, was arraigned in Montpelier city
court yesterday afternoon on the charge
of operating an automobile without a li
cense. He pleaded not guilty and .nidge
E. M. Harvey fixed bail at $200 for a
learing to be held next week. Stygles
was unable to furnish bail vesterday and
may have to stay in jail until the hear
mg. It is expected that charges of in
toxication and driving a car while in
toxicated will be made against him, al
though probably not until the first charge
is disposed of.
Pretty Wedding at Bride's Home on War
ren Street.
A pretty autumn wedding was cele
brated at the home of Mr. and Mrs. John
Chcsser, 5 Warren street, last evening
at 8 o'clock when their daughter, Miss
Georgina Reid Brock was married to
Frank Plumley Rowell of Albany, son
of Mr. and Mrs. Willard C. Rowell of
that town. Rev. Edgar Crossland, pas
tor of the First Fresbyterian church, was
the officiating clergyman and the cere
mony was performed under an arch of
evergreen and maple leaves. White car
naflbns, autumn leaves and evergreen
were used with charming effect in deco- "
rating the interior. The bridal party
entered the parlor where the ceremony
took place to the strains of Mendel-
sshon's Wedding March, plaved by Mrs.
James C. Laing. Mis Ruby Blanche Head
attended the bride and Enoch John Row
ell of Albany, a brother of the groom.
acted as best man. .
The bride was gowned in white crepe
de chine and georgette crepe and wore a
veil caught up with lilies of the valley.
She carried a bouquet of white roses. The
bridesmaid wore pink crepe de chine and
carried pink carnations. After the cere
mony, wedding guests were served a
dainty buffet luncheon by Mrs. Fred
Bird, who was assisted by cousins of the
bride, Miss Janet Brock and Alexander
Campbell.
Mr. and Mrs. Rowell are absent on an
automobile trip to Boston and upon their
return they will make their home at
3.) Merchant street. The bride was for
merly employed as a bookkeeper in the
Houghton A, Robins store. Mr. Rowell is
a traveling salesman in the employ of
Armour & Co. The couple received many
beautiful gifts.
PATRIOTIC SOCIETIES MEETINGS
BODY SWINGING ON TREE.
to address the visitors at the close of
Two divorce cases were heard vester-lthe afternoon session. Her inability to
day, Inez Pinney vs. Charles Pinney and
Palmer vs. Falmer, both cases being un-
First Stenographer How do you like
your new boss?
Second Stenographer Fine. He doesn't
know any more about spelling than I
do. Puck.
ALLEGED ACCESSORIES.
Two Men Held in Connection with Rhode
Island Murder.
Chelsea. Mass., Oct, 12. Antonio
Maure of Middletown, N. Y and Antonio
Ravmond of Chelsea were arrested here
be present was explained by unforeseen
circumstances which arose to keep her in
Saratoga. Because of the pressure of
many matters and the desire to com
plete all business before the closing serv
ice this evening, no effort was made to
fill Mrs. Read's place on the program.
The session this afternoon opened with a
service of song and prayer, led by Miss
(iraeo Pric-. Miss Glee Wood furnished
a solo, and then .Mrs. f . 11. Kastall of
lanchester Center, prominent in work
to-day as alleged accessories to the mur-jamong women in Vermont, was scheduled
fer of Cosmos Di Nuoein. a Providence, ' to speak on the subject, "The. Influence
K. I, restaurant keeper, Tuesday. of Woman s ote on Moral Reform.'
James Wentworth of North Troy Was
Despondent.
North Troy, Oct. 12. James Went
worth, aged 77 years, committed suicide
by hanging yesterday afternoon, his body
being found suspended from a small tree
about 7:20 last night after a searching
party had started out for lnm. 1 here is
no known reason for his act other than
despondency.
Mr. Wentworth was called to dinner
by his wife, but replied that he was not
hungry, and his wife sat down alone.
When last seen he wa splitting wood in
the rear of the house. Besides his wife,
he leaves one son, Merrill Wentworth,
who lives at Lake Frontier. Que., and a
daughter, Mrs. Maurice Kelley, of St.
Johnsbury.
BACKED INTO CROWD.
Will Close at Montpelier This Evening
Officers Elected.
The three days' session of Vermont
women s patriotic societies which aro
holding their annual meetings in Bailey
hall, Montpelier, will close to-day with
the gathering of the Daughters of 1812.
The Colonial Dames met Tuesday, and
yesterday members of the Vermont chap
ter, Daughters of the American Revolu
tion, met for the 17th annual conference.
The officer elected were as follows:
State regent, Mrs. Edward R. Marsh of
Brandon; state vice regent, Mrs. E. M.
Pember of Wells; recording secretary.
Mrs. S. L. Hazard, Fair Haven; corre
sponding secretary. Mrs. Helen E. Peck,
Brandon; treasurer, Mrs. F. I. Swift,
Brattleboro: auditor, Mrs. Raymond Mc
Farland, Middlebury; historian. Mrs. F.
O. Gillingham, Woodstock; chaplain. Mrs.
.1. r. IJowninu. hsex Junction; direc
tors, Mrs. W. T. Dewey, Montpelier, Mrs.
Gertrude Davis of Rutland and Miss Jen
nie Valentine of Bennington.
The secretary reported a membership
of 1.(506 in the 30 chapters comprising
the Vermont chapter and the state histo
rian gave at length the work done dur
ing the year in making gifts to the pub
lic schools, Kum Hattin home, the Mar
tha Berry school and the Belgian relief
fund and told of the progress being mado
in the construction of the old Constitu
tion houoe at Windsor.
MRS. MARY MURRAY DEAD.
But Pres. Wilson's Train Did Not Injure
Anyone at Indianapolis.
Richmond, Ind., Oct. 12. President
Wilson waa greeted by crowds of cheer
ing people as he passed through Davton
and Richmond on his way to Indianapo
lis. His train backed into a crowd here
but nobody was hurt.
Waa the Wife of George Murray of 44
Ayers Street.
Mrs. Mary Murray, wife of George
Murray, of 44 Avers street, died Wednes
day afternoon at 4 o'clock, the end fol
lowing an operation to which she sub
mitted last Friday. Hesides her husband.
she leaves a son, George Murray, jr.; a
sister, Mrs. M. H. (.rant ot f-ast Wal
pole. Mass., and a brother. James Mc-
Hanly, who lives in tne Hawaiian is
lands. She was born in Scotland in 186d
and had lived in Barre ten years. Mrs.
Murray was a member of the ladies of
Clan McGregor in Quincy, Mass., and
an honorary member of the Odd Ladies
in Barre. She attended the Presbyterian
church.
Funeral services will be held at the
house Saturday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Rev. F1par Crossland, pastor of the First
l"resbvterisn church officiating. Inter
meat will be made in Hope cuitcrj.
