THE WILSON POLICY: - 'WATCH, YA1T, WOBBLE AND WITHDRAW.' THE HUGHES POLICY: 'ACTIONS SPEAK LOUDER THAN NOT ES,'
CLAYTON
11 fl ILrf
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, ",
VOLUME 12
NO. 4
SO DELINQUENT TAXPAYERS MAY KNOW
SO THAT THE PEOPLE MAY KNOW
THE NOMINEES
CITIZEN
l 4
So Delinquent Taxpayers May Know
Raton, N. M., October 5, 1916.
The Hon. Thos. S. Snyder, Clayton,
. New Mexico.
Dear Captain:
I am sending you, today, a copy of
an estimate just received of the delin
quent tax list printed in the Clayton
News for the delinquent taxes of 1914,
Union County.
Trusting that you will make such
settlement as will fully protect the
county's interest, I beg to remain,
Yours very truly,
O. L. Phillips.
P. S. This covers four pages. I assume
it is the entire publication. If there
was more advise me.".
Now, Mr. Delinquent Taxpayer, you
can see that the "FACTS" which the
r.itizen has been so "carefully sup
pressing" are beginning to bear fruit
can't you?
The above from the district attor
ney's office is due notice to the board
nf ponntv commissioners of Union
county that the people's treasury will
not be invaded in the payment of fla
grantly illegal amounts for the publi
cation of at least one delinquent tax
list that does not conform to law. Last
year the Citizen complained that the
law was not being complied with in
the matter of publishing delinquent
tax lists since the law of 1915 respect
ing such publications was passed; and
it has been pounding away on this
line at various times ever since. Now
it has come to a "show down" so far
as your county treasury is concerned,
but how is it going to work in your in
dividual case.
yourself to a post and invite your
wife and children to wear it out on
you for not having sense enough to
protect the interests of the family to
which you are a gleaming disgrace.
And what is true of the tax list pub
lished this year is also true of the tax
list published last year. Prior to that
time the laws of 1915, respecting such
publications, were not in effect. If
you have already paid this unlawful
amount demand its return to you.
Now the Citteen has been telling
you the truth about this matter as
well as other matters of vast concern
to you. It has told you the truth about
tax sale certificates and we are going
to show you that we have the same au
thority to bear us out. This we shall
do next week.
A pretty mess, indeed, this Oklahoma-bossed
jimmyocracy has vom
ited upon Union county, isn't it- The
Citizen has also told you the truth
about the Droflitrate nrodigality of
the jimmycratic board of county com-'
missioners in reckless expenditures -of
the people's money; the expenditures
of your road money; "executive" ses
sions for the purpose of evading plain
provisions of the law; failures to com
ply with the election laws thereby pur
posely disfranchising voters in this
county; and that is why the Citizen is
not loved by the Oklahoma-New Mex
ico miscegenation of jimmycrats.
These are its only enemies and we are
proud of them. Wc have never lost
a friend we needed nor gained one we
did not need and the Citizen will con
tinue to tell you the truth. Here is
another fact you may digest. Had the
For President
CHARLES E. HUGHES
For Vice-President
CHARLES , FAIRBANKS
For Presidential Elector!
C. L. HILL, Las Cruces.
H. J. HAMMOND, Clayton.
JUAN ORTIZ, Santa Fe. .
For U. S. Senator
FRANK A HUESELL
For Congressman
B. C. HERNANDEZ
For Attorney General
FRANK W. CLANCY
For Governor
HOLM O. BURSUM
For Lietenant Governor
W. E. LINDSEY
For Justice Supreme Court
CLARENCE J. ROBERTS
For Secretary of State
GILBERTO MIRABAL
For Corporation Commissioner-
MALAQUIÁS MARTINEZ
For State Auditor
W. G. SARGENT
For State Treasurer
GREGORY PAGE
For Superintendent of Schools
J. H. WAGNER
For Land Commissioner
R. P. ERVIEN
For District Attorney
ORIE L. PHILLIPS
same conditions prevailed throughout
Is the county now to speculate up- the four and a half years of the ad-
on yov individually by demanding mnstration that the Citizen forced
from you individually the unlawful n county printing in the year 1914, al-
amounts shown in such publication as tnoUgh it had to force over an "exe-
costs of advertising unlawful "de- cutve session," the county would have
scriptions inserted?" Have you al- Baved fif244.74 on one so-called "of-
ready paid it? Who is going to get ficiai organ aione. This is a nice lit-
the benefit of that illegal charge? Is te eft to bestow as patronage to
your treasurer still going to demand Oklahoma-ridden jimmyocracy. But
of you. that you pay for from 3 to 30 tng oca not nciude a penny for pub
lines of advertising when the law says ( isnng delinquent tax lists, Mr. Tax
you shall pay for but one? But ac-, payer, then how much greater would
cording to the estimate referred to tne 8avng have been had the last two
in the district attorney's communica-1 publications been according to law?
tion above, the average is 1.19 lines to gut n tj,e matter of tax-list publica
each delinquent and that is all the t;0Ilg e jimmycratic administration
county is going to pay for. That nas been "caught with the goods" and
would be $0.3427, or about 34 1-4 cents wju now nave to "stand and deliver."
for each delinquent taxpayer. Are you jt would be just as easy to catch it
going to pay the treasurer of Union j wtn e other goods and it ought to
county all the way from $ 0.C9 to $6.- be done. Do you want a continuance
1)0 each? The district attorney has 0f 8UCn administration? If so, just
notified the bourd of county commis- vote the jimmycratic ticket and you'll
sioners that the county will not stand Ket t, w"e challenge the present jim
for these illegal charges. Are you mycratic administration, the like of
going to stand for them in your own which Union county never before wit
individual case? If you do you are nessed and it is to be hoped will never
easy. If it is unlawful for the pnn- again witness, to a "show down" Bnd
ter to collect these amounts off the ' comparison with any administration
county it is just as unlawful for the Union county has ever had since its
treasurer to collect them off you in- organization. You should demand
dividually. The Citizen's voice has 0f jimmycratic candidates a full and
been loud in heralding to you these complete explanation of what jimmy
"facts of law" and their infringement ocracy has dne to the people of this
for a long time and that is the Teason ennnty and what it has done with tbe
the "quill pusher" of the Citizen has more than $88,000.00 dollars it has
no "brains" from the standpoint of ."Mowed in" of the people's money,
Oklahoma-bossed jimmyocracy in Un- Of course you will never get such an
ion county. But you don't object to ' explanation, but that is no reason why
the Citizen saving you a few dollars
do you? When you go to pay your
delinquent tax refuse to pay the un
lawful charge for advertising. If you
do not, then go by the saddler's shop
on your way home and buy a black-s-'nke,
horse-whip, go home and tie
you are not entitled to it. Democracy
don't look good to Oklahoma jimmy
crats. What has been squandered on
newspapers is a smsll amount when
"omparel with other profligate expen
ditures for that is only one item of
prodigality.
THE CONVENTION
educational system.vHe stated to the
ladies present that he hoped the time
would soon come when their presence
at political conventions would
be
1 The republican county convention
met here Wednesday afternoon at 2
o'clock and after completing a tern- more conspicuous and they could be
porary organization listened to the el-! addressed as fellow-citizens, equal in
oquenco of Holm O. Bursum, candi- ( suffrage with men, and that whatever
date for governor, W. E. Lindsey, can- i he could do to bring about such an end
didate for lieutenant governor, and J. ' should not be left undone. In this h
H. Wagner, candidate for state super- received uproarious applause, showing
intendent of schools. that the spirit of the convention was
Mr. Bursum made the principal overwhelmingly in favor of equal suf
speech of the afternoon in which he f rage of the sexes. '
handed ; the political and economic ! With respect to the state adminis
conditions of the country in a very tration, Mr. Bursum gave only the
able and dispassionate manner. He facts of official records. He threw no
outlined what he would do if elected political mud nor virulent animus in
governor giving special emphasis to to his speech. He abused no one but
the improvement of road laws and our paid all his opponents respectful, but
v COUNTY TICKET
For Senator-
J. F. BRANSON
For Representatives
FRED B." MOORE
MALAQUIAS BACA
For Commissioners
1st MORRIS JOHNSON
2nd T. MARTINEZ
3rd MANUEL" MARTINEZ
For Sheriff
RAY SUTTON
For Treasurer
F. C. FIELD
For Assessor
J. ANDRES PACHECO
For Clerk
ISIDRO MONTOYA
For Superintendent
II. H. ERRETT
For Probate Judge
FRANCISCO VIGIL
For Surveyor ,'
A. C. LOVELESS J
"Here's to the man that invented
the Ingersoll watch; he had brains.
And here's to the nameless quill push
er of the Clayton Citizen; may he live
a thousand years so that after dissolu
tion his cranial vacuum may reveal
something more than bray and bellyache.
After the Rocky Mountain canary
that pushes a quill for the Clayton
Citizen had finished braying last week
he was no nearer telling the truth
about the county printing than in
previous articles. The Swastika ob
jected to the bald statement that the
commissioners had allowed the News
something over $5,000 for publishing
the commissioner's proceedings and
delinquent tax list. The Citizen calls
attention to the fact that the job
prining for the county superintendent
is itemized separately. We give the
quill driver of the Citizen credit for
enough brains to distingush the fact
that each any every other office in the
court house has used some printing
and evidently this printing is includ-
ed in the sum charged as paid for pro
ceedings and tax list. Even a genus
homo of the common garden variety
of fool can search out the animus back
of the Citizen's article. Being hungry
he naturally brays for a stall at the
public crib. AH Rock Mountain can
aries are alike in this particular. "So
the people may know!" Don't make
us laugh, Oswald; we have a cracked
lip. During the past few months the
i Citizen has suppressed news concern
ing all the crimes in the category be'
cause of reasons best known to them
selves. "So the people may know!"
Shade of Diogones! Judas Iscariot
betrayed his Lord for 30 pieces of sil
ver and so has. the Citizen betrayed
the cause of the people it is so inter
"stei in by suppressing facts every
issue since the campaign started; in
fact a perusal of any issue of the Cit
izen will reveal the tact that every
Democrat is a potential criminal and
all Republicans have rprouted wings,
"So the people may know!" Lay on
Macduff! With the Citizen anything is
legitimate if it leads back to the pork
barrel." Des Moines Swastika.
Ordinarily we would not permit the
columns of the Citizen to trespass up
on the attention of our readers by
brine'ng to notice such insipient va
powerful official criticism. He did not
leave the so-called democratic admin
istration any standing room on the
stage of criticism. His arguments
and statement of facts are 'absolutely
unanswerable and it is quite certain
that jimmyocracy will not attempt to
answer them. There was not a par
agraph in his speech that was not un-
animously applauded.
Mr.. Lindsey followed with a few
rous'ng, well-rounded, trenchant, re-
marks that were punctuated by hearty
applause. He very clearly demon
strated in the short time he occupied
the floor, that in case the mantle of
governor should fall upon him it
.vould be worn with honor and ability.
vMr. Wagner followed Mr. Lindsey.
He fairly electrified the audience with
his eloquence. Like a Bryan or a
Bailey he held his audience spell-bound
until every climax was reached, which
vns the end of every sentence, when
it would break loose in unsubdued ap
plause. Although he did not occupy
the floor ton ril; utes, there was not
a man in the audience who did not feel
that the interests of the school child
ren in this state would be perfectly
safe in his hands. He left; the floor
amid thunderous applauso'
At this point, the convention ad
journed to 7 p. m. and to escort these
candidates to their automobile which
was waiting for them at the Hotel Ek
lund. More than three hundred re
publicans followed them to the hotel,
shook hands with them in parting and
roundly cheered them on their way as
they departed for Nara Visa where
they were to speak in the evening. .y
(Continued on 5th page)
in its columns? No, you have not
and you will not. Why does not this
Oklahoma jimmycrat give you the fig
ures ? Why does he not explain to you
why it was that in the year 1914, when
the Citizen forced a show down on
bids for county printing, even though
it had to do so in spite of secret ses
sions of the boaVd of county commis
sioners, that the English, so-called
"official organ got $464.42, while in
the year 1912 it got $1160.13; in the
year 1913, $818.79; and in the years
1915 and 1916 up to July 7, $885.29?
Nor is there a single penny for pub
lishing delinquent tax lists included
in the above amounts. These amounts
foot up $3334.63 and of this amount
$1,038.45 is marked under the column
of "For What Service" "Publishing.
Com. Min. etc." while $2,014.78 is
marked in the same column, "Pub.
Com. Min." alone and one amount,
namely, $281.40 is marked "Printing"'
alone. Why doesn't the Oklahoma
jimmycrat tell the people how much -of
this money is for this or that in
stead of vomiting Insipient vapidty
upon its limited readers. Nor have
we given all the English so-called "of
ficial organ" got. There are other
amounts marked "job work" that are
not included in the above and it is pure
assumption to say that "etc" in the
above is for job work. It may mean
something else just as well and who,
but the Oklahoma jimmycrat, the jim
myocracy of whose like is being sent
to its everlasting oblivion in Oklaho
ma by republicans and socialists, is
going to assume this or that just for
the benefit of the jimmycratic gang
of Oklahoma-bossed jimmyocracy in
Union county? No wonder "So the
people may know!" is a wasp, under
the shirt of jimmyocracy, that stings
without losing its 3t:;-.go:'! It is not
the record of the republican party, nor
the socialist party, nor any other
party but the jimmycratic party, en
gineered, manned, bossed and ruled
over by a miscegenation of Oklaho
ma and New Mexico jimmycrats. Nor
yet is it the record of the Clayton Cit
izen. Nor yet is it the record of dem
ocracy. There is a vast difference be.
tween democracy and jimmyocracy,
but jimmyocracy is in the saddle at,
present and must stand upon its own
record. If our mild tempered little
contemnorarv wnnlrl usa ;to "nuj
piditv as that contained in the aboxe ,ip in telljnjf the ,e gQme of
from the Swastika We reproduce it truths t 8ays the ctzen g canful
merely to snow me cnaracter oi to nnnnro.- it ..i,i k e
t-Arpo.. 1 1 . .. . i 10 suppress it would be perforrv.nr
"FACTS that j.mmyocracy is an- a 8ervice W0Pth wll , . .
swering the expose of its profligacy it un8Crew the inscrutabIe r It h'rs
and incompetency with. Nowhere LionDn,u .. a ... . ..
v., L ..itj
does this sweet tempered little jim
mycratic publication tell the people!
why the English publication, accord
ing to the jimmycratic record, got $1,
941.21 for publishing delinquent tax
lists, while the Spanish publication got
only $1,521.28 for the same work, be
ing a difference of $418.93; nor does
it attempt to explain, because it can
not do so, why such wide differences
occur between these t'vo publications
on other classes of printin". These
are truly "great achievements" of the
present jimmycratic administration in
that the News do so. Why shf -ild the
News worry? The board of co.:nty
commissioners have approved iU b'.lV.
Sweet Angel of Light, why no! take
another look at the company o -red
Ingersoll and take note that it is "hi-h
time" you get "on the job" and "spot
the carpet of explanation? The
campaign is on and the people want
to know. It takes "facts and figures"
these days to prove things. Cheap
balderdash, buncombe and bombast
don't buy anything but deserved con
tempt. And while you are on the
i vviiiuim muí un i it' vim d va r
m i ! I VII
union county; in laci mey are so carDet of exillinntinn v ..
1 ..m miiib CA
great, when taken in connection with
other "great achievements" that the
"resolutions committee" forgot to tell
the people about, that they have ev
ery other administration, either dem
ocratic or republican, backed off the
administrative map.
If our sweet tempered little angel
whose wings sprouted among the
clouds that nestle on the bleak of Si
erra Grande, only a short while ao,
means to he anything but a hopeless
jimmycrat, whv does it not tell the
people some of the "facts" it asserts
the Citizen has been suppressing?
Have you seen anything of that kind
plain why the jimmycratic tax-speculator
could "have so much better
success" in Union county than in
Colfax county and why the board of
county commissioners have ben in
structed to "make such settlement as
will fully protect the county's inter
est" in the matter of the publication
of the last delinquent tax list; togeth
er with a lot of other things that the
Citizen hasn't mentioned yet. Why
don't you just "beat the Citizen to it?"
Aye, there's the rub! Adiós, Senor Os
wald Doodlebug! You just, "Walked
right in, and turned right around, and '
walked right out again!".-
Don Malaquias Baca, one of the best
interpreters in the county, and Don
Eufracio Gallegos spent most of the
week in the city attending to business
matters. They also escorted the Hon.
Holm O. Bursum! candidate for Gov
ernor and Prof. J. H. Wagner, candi
date for State School Superintendent
from the Mosquero country where
they had been delivering addresses,
to this place. .
We are very glad to notice "that
the self-respecting democrats
are almost a unit in denouncing
the personal . attack upon Judge
Toombs made by Serapio Miera
in the democratic convention.
It's the old story- give a c?'f
rope enough, etc,
