Si..?!; !: !.i,i.5C8 Kuildiug.
Gazette-Times
H H
VOL. 33. NO. 29
IIEPPXEK, OREGON, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1916
SUBSCRIPTION, $1.50 PER YEAR
HELD Oil CHARGE
FGATILE STEALING
Levi Curl, Homesteader, Drove Cattle
to Ktanflell Where it is Alleged
11c Attempted to Sell Them
at $10 l'cr Head.
Charged with stealing cattle be
longing to Jack AlcCollough and Rob
en Dexter, Levi Curl is held in the
comity jail awaiting a
hearing.
preliminary
furl una lu.UI Mr Srnnfil.l lat vppk
after he had attempted to sell the Peters of the Overland-Pacific Com
cattle to a butcher there. He gave pany of Portland has been in Hepp
his name as Peterson. Suspicion was ner anQ adjoining territory the past
tirst aroused when he asked a low weok making demonstrations with the
' price , $40 per head for the cattle. Overland. His Company in Portland
Carl Is a homesteader on upper are preparing to handle $150,000
Willow creek and lias worked a wortn f supplies and accessories and
great deal at the Slocum saw mill tile local agents will carry a line of
which is situated just above his home- supplies also. A carload of Over
stead. The McCollough and Dexter ianns wjh soon De distributed in
cattle run on the range nearby. Carl Heppner and vicinity,
has a family. i
J. P. Flynn is held in the county
jail on a charge of issuing worthless
checks Flynn gave checks to peo-,
pie in this city on the First National
Daiirv. it iuici ucvciuytu umi ne
had never carried an account at the
" ,' "B ,aa . ,
make the checks good and it was only
after he had failed in this, that the
charge"was pressed. He has been
working in harvest all summer and
formerly was engaged in the well
drilling business
are In the city.
His wife and baby
Variety
Store Is Now
Business.
Ojen For
ij
Heppner now has a variety store.
As the word indicates, this new shop
will sell many different articles rang- "Shadowagraph," and Chinese Gos
Ing in price from 5 to 26 cents. A. sip," all of which were a great suc
VV. Raglan is the proprietor and his cess. The refreshment committee
store is located In the building one then took charge of the party, and by
door north' of the Patterson-Elder the looks of things every body did
barber Bhop. Mr. Raglan announces their part toward making this part of
that he will open for business Satur- the occasion a success. After the re
day morning and Invites the public freshments wore over, MIbb Buckley
to call and inspect his goods.
PLAY FOOT BALL
President Winnard, and the faculty;
Representatives of the three high they sang the old high school song
schools in Morrow County, consisting and "Good Night Ladies" and dispers
of lone, Lexington and Heppner, met pd.
at Lexington last Saturday and ar
ranged a schedule for the 1916 foot
ball season. The opening date has
been set for Saturday, October 21,
when lone and Heppner will clash on
the local gridiorn.
The schedule as adopted by the
Morrow County Interscholastlc Lea
gue is as follows;
Oct. 21, lone vs. Heppner at Hepp
ner. Oct. 28, Lexington vs. Heppner at
Lexington
Nov. 4, Lexington vs. lone at lone.
Nov. 7, Heppner vs. lone at lone.
Nov. 11, Lexington vs. Heppner at
Heppner.
Nov. 18, lone vs. Lexington at Lex
ington. While in session, the representa
tives drew up a set of rules which in
the future, will govern ail athletics.
No person shall be eligible who
lias had four years of previous ex
perience on any team of a secondary
or higher institution.
All those who participate shall
also have a passing grade in three 10 lne conference at Lexington re
subjects with the exception of seniors Prte(1- Tliree Heppner men went
who are taking enough work to grad- (lown b,lt Mr- Atkinson gave the re
llate. port for the three. One of the main
All matters of dispute between the t,llnga decided on at the conference
various teams of this county shall be wa9' t,lat t,lere sllou,d be a board ot
settled by the board of control, which arbitration, so to speak, to settle all
shall consist of one representative dlf,Ptes that might arise between the
from each school. The decision of scwos' involved. Henry Peterson,
the board shall be accepted as final of HePl'ner, Mr. Campbell of Lexing
by all schools involved. All officials ton'.and Mr- sPerrv ot lone are the
for any contest shall be decided upon members of this board. At the con
bv the representatives of the schools ference they also decided several oth
involved at least two days before the er matters of more or less impor
ilv nf tli enntpst .tance. The first game of the season
.
Bented at the meeting Saturday bv
Prof. Atkinson, Henry Peterson and
Cecil Lieuallen. ,
was
A son weighing 8 pounds
born to Mr. apd Mrs. R. II. Moore on
Rhea creek October 3. Mrs. Moore
was formerly Miss Cora Teague.
mi. ouu 1.1.5. u. u. Djm.no
Sunday at the Chas. Shaver home in
t ti,o o ,i,i k
1ffH .1 HHn T T) Cnnnl.n I
Miss Muriel McCarty.
Dr. Winnard lias taken a special
fcourse on eye, ear, nose and throat.
Glasses properly
Lome Industries.
fitted. Patronize
' Glasses properly fitted by Dr. Win
bard. Satisfaction guaranteed.
High School Attendance Continues To
Increase.
Superintendent II. H. Hoffman an
nounces that high school attendance
ontinues to increase. This week the
enrollment reached ninety. A mark
ed increase is noted during the past
ten days, the enrollments , having
grown on an average of a pupil each
day during that period. The major
ity of the xMidents are enrolled for
(straight high school work, which
means a four year course.
Local Store Take Automobile Agency.
Minor & Co., the pioneer merchan-
dHn? Arm of this city have taken the
i i . . , f .. n n.,.in ,i
win.,- u-ll, ,.. M1D v
HIGH SCHOOL NOTES
;
Lagt FHd n, nt the Mni of
the Heppner h,gh schoo, gatl)ered ,n
a get-acquainted party. The lower
hall was decorated to fit the occasion,
all the-classes had their pennant
.. , t. VrBaMaa ,,,. npn.
there except the Freshies whose pen
nant has not yet arrived. The recep
tion committe met all the students
at the door as they arrived and saw
tlint thpv u'prp nlncpH nlrtpht.. Aftpr
Umt t)ifi entertainment committee
I showed their worth by making every-
' hnilv ppt tn nnd lmvp n pnnri time.
Tiiey starteo out witn a Virginia Reel
and everybody took part with enthu
siasm. After that they played the
"Millers
Boy," "Proverbs," the
i played a few pieces on the piano, fol
lowing this Norton Winnard, Presi
dent of the Student Body made a
! speech which put "pep" into every
body, so much in fact that a minute
after when the yell leader took hold
of them that they made the old school
house shake. After giving nine,
i Rail's for each of the committees,
On Friday morning there was an
Informal meeting of the student-body
for the purpose of finding out the at
titude of the students toward foot
Now that the team is sure of a
ball.
place to play, the heads of the pro
portion wanted to find out if the stu
dent body wanted to put out a team,
and if so, if the boys were going to
turn out for practice. The president
of the Athletic Association called for
a the boyg to stan(, up wll0 lntended
to turn out for practice, nnd glad to
,say there was enough that Heppner
High can have a team and a good one.
On Saturday the Heppner delegates
went to Lexington to meet with de
legates from lone and Lexington, for
the purpose or arranging a foot ball
schedule.
It was announced at the party Fri
day night that there would be a clam
feed on Halloween, and that all this
would he at the expense of Professor
i Hoffman.
I Monday morning, the delegates
will ho nlnvprl hplwpnn Tnno anA
IIePPnfir' at "eppner on October 21.
Tinno 'nrn fl,,n nt..J.ni.
4in.it, ncic iiyc new Diuutjaia en-
rolled on Monday, their names are as
'follows; Anderson Hayes, Lola Hayes,
Evelyn Shipley, Henry Aiken, and
Charlie Wattenburger
la nnnrnilnn n 4- 1. TT O
"j.o.uv.u.1 en, l..c iicijiuci oauu-
torium last Monday. Drs. Winnard
o.wi AiUar,.. tvon v,o i .... 1
slcians.
Morris Edmunson, young" son of
Mrs. M. J. Edmunson, underwent an
operation at the Heppner Sanatorium
last Saturday for the removal of
tonslls and adenoids. He la recover
ing nicely from the effects of the nnn.
BANKS REFLECT PROSPERITY NOW
ABOUNDING IN MORROW COUNTY
That there is prosperity abound
ing in Morrow county, is reflected in
the showing made by the banking
institutions doing business here.
During the last two weeks, the
First National Bank of Heppner has
passed the million dollar mark in the
amount of business handled. De
posits in that length of time have in
creased $250,000. Likewise have
' . "l ""Jf""" ,
'and Savings Bank and the Bank of
ti. .....,...;.. t tt t
"J IcaUB "OUI1QS
It is the result of a few wheat sales
which recently took place. Some
arge sales have been effected but pro
bably the biggest check thus far is
sued to a single man for wheat, was
C. B. Sperry, lone wheat buyer, to
YV. H. Padberg, of Clarks Caynon.
The check was for $40,000. Mr. Pad
berg has not yet disposed of all his
wheat either.
During the past few days there has R. J. Vaughn; Fancy work booth,
been no market for wheat, owing to iMrs. J. Keane; Irish work booth, Miss
the flurry caused In shipping through j Peggy O'Rourke; Candy booth, Miss
the sinking of merchant vessels by, Nora Hughes; Country Store, Mrs.
the German submavjnes. Wm. O'Sullivan; Fish Pond, Mrs. M.
In spite of the fact that the entire jMcDaid.
wheat crop of the United States is j A valuable diamond' ring is offered
400.000,000 bushels short this year, by the Rev. Pastor to the lady having
local conditions were never more the most successful returns from her
prosperous. Better homes in which ; booth. The articles not sold will be
to live and a more contented spirit 'auctioned off on the last night.
which will be brought through more . ;
of the luxuries of life will be the re- The first auto truck to be operated
suit of the biggest wheat harvest the ;In Morrow county for wheat, hauling
county has ever known. One excep- purposes is the Denby truck driven
tionally good year will go far to- by George Bleakman. He is hauling
ward making the future years more from the Eight Mile section and
successful. makes from two to three trips a day.
QUEEN MURIEL OE THE
UP IS NOW
In this city Monday evening, Frank
E. Cronan of lone and Miss Muriel
Sallng, late queen of the Pendleton
Round-Up, were married at St. Pat
rick's rectory by the Rev. Father P.
J. O'Rourke. All circumstances sur
rounding this romance which came
to such a sudden climax, were kept so
quiet that even the closest friends of
the young people were in total igno
ranee of the affair until after the
ceremony had been performed and
Mr. and Mrs. Cronan had left the
city for Pendleton. Following is an
account of the romance which appear
ed fn the Tuesday edition of the Pen
dleton East Oregonian:
"And they lived happily ever aft
erward." That is all that remains to be writ
ten of tlie romance of Miss Muriel
Saling, twice queen of the Pendleton
Round-Un. Queen nf tlip Portland
r, - - ...........
Rose Festival, Queen of the Columbia
Highway and Queen of the Astoria
itegaua, who last evening became,
Mrs. frank K. cronan, all because
she has been so very much a queen.
Quite without the knowledge of
umiiy or tnenas sne was quietly mar-
nea iasi evening at Heppner to a
young lone banker who had first seen
her when she ruled over Rosaria, who
first met her when she was queen of
the Round-Up and who had wooed
her ever since with an impetuosity
that would not be denied.
The young husband of the festival
queen is a brother of J. E. Cronan of
Portland, who acted as admiral of
the Astoria Regatta over which the
Pendleton girl ruled. It was this cir-
cumstance that the younger brother
used as an excuse for seeking an in-1
troauction to the Round-Up queen
one evening at Happy Canyon. Ap-
parently it was a case of mutual love
FAIRVIEW FARMERS
riTI II I nirmnri nmnniT tminii AAimnm1,..... ..,.,..,...
i uij imiULJi JLrtJUll mill tUmDlliL
H. R. Smith and Henry Smouse
finished combining this week and now
iliave thpir crnna in the anrr
They
jcut 1200 acres, made a good run and
irnt t ll mil crll ,ir t (Ant ...... J ..
r" viiivwt,!! nuiiuu, any bciiuub inl
lays- From 600 acres, Mr. Smith
jhas a yield of 19000 bushels and Mr.
.Smouse got 15000 bushels from about
KKO ar.Aa 1
v ,.Co. iuo uiaumiit) iiiuue uu
average threshing of 330 sacks a day.
Mi...... guv jiem ,u ou ousneis per
n J 11. ... ...
tici tj uiiu uie grain is 01 very excellent
quality. He also had in a field of 50 :
. .. . . i .. . i
acres of Marquis wheat that gave a
yield of 30 bushels. Mr. Smith is
highly pleased with this wheat which
is the great producer of the Canadian
uuumry ana Bianas at tne head ofilay at the Shurte home in this city,
all market quotations on grain. He; Mr. Shurte is manager of the Arllng-
Relieves that It will produce well here
This particular field was seeded the
middle of April and It grew very tall
and heavy. The wheat looks much
( WILL HOLD GUAM) BAZAAR.
A Grand Bazaar and Fancy Fair
will be held in the Masonic building
November 16, 17, and 18. The ob
ject of this bazaar is to help pay off
the debt on St. Patrick's church and
the priests' house. Many valuable
prizes have been donated, among the
doners being Bishop O'Reilly, Fath
er ! Driscoll of La Grande, Father
Brady, K. of C. Pendleton, Patrict
Connel and Michael Kenny. In con
nection with the bazaar there will be
many interesting features of amuse
ment. The following are the ladies
who will preside over the different
booths. Apron booth. Miss M. D.
Doyle; Towel booth, Miss Sarah Do
herty; Articles for baby wear, mis.
PENDLETON ROUND
K FRANK E.
at first sight. During the remainder
of the Round-Up there was none so
aentive to the fair ruler as the lone
courtier, and, after he had returned
home, he overcame the handicap of
distance by means of the automobile
and the telephone.
Sunday morning Miss Saling left
Pendleton in the Dan Smythe auto
with a party of friends for Heppner.
Tiiey were met on the way by young
Cronan, who accompanied them back.
He had already secured a license and
made other preparations for a wed
ding. The time and the place had
been arranged and all that remained
was to overcome certain objections of
the girl to such an abrupt culmina
tion of their romance. In the end he
prevailed and last evening at 7:30 at
St. Patrick's rectory, Heppner, he
'claimed her as his bride, Rev. Father
IP. J. O'Rourke performing the cere -
mnn ni f,. f-i,j i
uivru., win, a icn melius ncic W1L-
nesses.
Immediately after
tii.
the news was broken to the bride's
i parents, in this cltv over the tele -
Iphone, and the young couple follow
ed up their message by auto to re
ceive the parental blessing.
The news of their weddinir snread
over the city this morning, occasion- The Misses Muriel and Marie Ca
ing a mild sensation because of the son were passengers for Portland
unexpectedness of it, and the bridal Saturday morning and will spend a
couple have been showered with con-.'couple of weeks visiting in the me
gratulations all day. tropolis. Upon their return the
They expect to make their future ;'oung ladies expect to join their pa
home In lone where Mr. Cronan has j rents at Heppner, where they will
a position in the bank owned by his make their home in the future,
father Joseph E. Cronan, a prominent M. B. Hains, of Hotel lone, is con-
i oriianci resident. The bride may re- Itemplating further improvements in
main here for a time to assist beriMo imotio unA win mats o Di
father, County Clerk Frank Saling,
until he can fill her position of chief
deputy. They plan to take a hnnev-
Imoon trip to San Francisco where Mr.
Cronan has a Bister.
COMPLETE SUCCESS-
like bluestem and is a better producer
in the sections where It is more exten
s!vely ra'sed' Mr'- Sn,ith had Kod-:fall
fwTifi?'!,"'?.,811-0111'',' flb'e, to,tur;
o--""." ...n. ,.vv.. i.wuul
of this variety.
j Mrs. R. V. Whlteis has been ap
pointed to the position as head nurse
,,t the Hennnpr Snnntnrlum f,,r tl,e
'coining vear succeeding Mi nnvio
formerly head nurse at this institu
tion and is wpII knnu-n tiirnmrimut
Heppner and Morrow cm.ntv
" want ana Morrow count).
C. W. Shurte and son Guyle, Miss
Zara Snell and Vincent Smith motor-id
ed up from Arlington and spent Sun -
ton creamery at the present time.
Wanted Girl for general house
work. Phone Mrs. T. J. Mahoney.
Morrow County Hhs Asked For Road
Building Aid.
For the Improvement of roads in
Morrow county which are in the For
est reserve, the county court has ask
.ed for aid from the district forester in
(Portland. The roads which would
!be benefitted by this aid are the Rit-
ter, Hardman-Monument and a por
tion of the Spray road. The forest
reserve department has the matter
under sonsideration.
Heppner Traps Will Be He-opened.
The traps of the old Heppner Gun
'Club will be re-opened and conduct
ed in the future under the auspices
of the Morrow County Rod and Gun
Club. The traps will be ready for
the gun men by Sunday. Just what
will be the means of supporting the
traps and what will constitute a mem
bership will be decided at a meeting
future. . Robert Young and Green
wood Thornton are busy this week fix
ing up the traps and making some
neessary improvements. The shoot
ing grounds are located on Willow
reek, just above the Cowins ice plant.
IONE NEWS NOTES.
Geo. Aiken was down from Hepp
ner Tuesday doing some bill posting.
Hay farmers up and down the creek
are busy putting up their third crop
of alfalfa.
Mrs. J. T. Knappenberg was a
passenger . for Salem Wednesday
morning where she goes on business.
C. J. Bright, attorney of The Dalles
was doing business in lone on Wed
nesday. He owns some of our real
estate in the vicinity of Morgan.
E. H. Paddn, who has been work
ing in and about lone during the past
year, left for Eugene Wednesday and
will again enter the University of Ore
gon. Rev. Geo. B. Van Waters, Episco
pal minister, was In lone over Mon
day night, and held services at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Wilt
which was well attended.
W. T. Campbell nas moved his
thresher across Rhea creek In to the
Fairview district and will thresh out
the grain of that neighborhood much
to the delight of the farmers.
W.L. Houston, builder in charge
of the construction of the new Mason
store, was a passenger down the line
Monday to look after the selection of
material to go into the building.
Chas. R. Powelson, of the recruit
ing office of The Dalles was in lone
over Monday to interest our young
men in joining the militia. He did
not get anyone to join and it is evi
dent that the young men hereabout
were not raised to be soldiers.
Rev. J. L. Jones and Mrs. Alice
Keller departed for The Dalles Tues
day morning where they go as de
legates to the Congregational con-
i ference being held in tllat this
! weelt' -ey are "eiegates rrom the
I local Church,
The boys class of the Christian
Sunday school entertained the vouneiand machinery shed right away.
i Peoples class on Tuesday evening. The
iParty was elv'en in the basement
which the' boys had nicely decorated
for the occasion, and a very enjoyable
time was had. Light refreshments of
sherbert and wafers were served.
Ition of several more rooms, besides
! installing good baths. The spirit of
improvement has struck our town,
and it is rumored that there will be a
lot of new, sidewalks built and the
city will put in some concrete cross
ings on the principal streets. Let us
linnp that this will hp dnnp. I
., , , I
The Carlson Bros., nf finnsphprrv
tur.
thresher after a very successful sea-
son They made an average per day
of 1104 sacks and Emil states that
!tn
e farmers of their neighborhood
have the largest and finest crop this
ever produced in the history of
'farming. Carlson Bros., from th
eir
i own Iiekis, nave filled
land got an average of
11500 sacks
30 bushels.
They will begin hauling their crop to
the railroad at lone just as soon as
they can get their wagons and teams
ready.
i Walt Smith has taken to farming !
again, at least he is preparing to en 0f the Lexington section alone would
ter this line of work once more, and Exceed $400,000 cash returns to the
this week bought the Barber place of ;farnlers there and this a compara
480 acres from E. M. Perfect. Mr. itivelv small Dortion of the wheat belt.
Perfect purchased this land last fall
harvested a fine crop from it this
,season - but having interests so large-
ly scattered, he decided to sell his
Morrow county holdings and devote
his attention to lands he owns In the
Willamette Valley. Mr. Smith has
a lot of faith In the outcome of the ,
farming section o this end of the i
BIG G. 0. P. RALLY
NEXTMQNOAYMIGHT
Hon. Clias. W. Fulton, Former Sena
tor From Oregon Will Address
Morrow County People At
Gale Street U)erit
House.
A grand republican rally is schedul
ed for next Monday night when Chas.
W. Fulton of Portland, ex-United
States Senator from Oregon will ad
dress the citizens of Morrow county
on the political issues of the day.
The local republican campaign com
mittee feel that they are indeed for
tunate in securing Mr. Fulton to
speak at this time, inasmuch as he is
regarded as the best student on poli
tical questions In Oregon today.
Arrangements have been made
with J. B. Sparks, manager of the op
era house on Gale street, whereby the
use of this theater has been secured
1U1 lliab lllfjll... 1U BUU1UUU) 1U1,
Sparks will show his entire program,
of picture free of charge. The show
program will preceed the address of
Mr. Fulton.
The local campaign committee Is
working hard to get the Fulton
meeting advertised over the county
and they have Invited everybody, re
gardless of their political affiliation,
to be present.
The speaking will begin at 8 o'
clock sharp.
Xew Lumber Yard Will Open Soon.
Hugh C. Githens announces that be
will soon open a lumber yard in this
city. He has secured the Indepen
dent Garage property on fhe corner
of Main and Baltimore street.
He expects to handle rough and
dressed lumber and such side lines
that naturally go with the business.
Mr. Githens returned last week from
Portland where he had gone to se
cure his stock. He will open his
yard as soon as the stock arrives.
county and is satisfied that he has
made a good buy in the Barber place.
, J. T. Knappenberg has gone into
he sheep business, having placed a
bunch on his place of sufficient size
to keep the weeds down. We are sure
he will find it a paying investment
and. should like to see many more
following the example and presume
that they will just as fast as they can
get the proper fencing done.
Aaron Peterson was down from
Eight Mile Monday. He has finished
his threshing and he is well pleased
with the results. Mr. Peterson finds
that he will have to make larger
barns on his premises and he will be
gin the construction of a new barn
j 1 aul a
" auu mai naivorsen
! wiU Put UP a nice res'dence on the
'Jordan Place- to cost not less tllan
fzuuu. just now many more or tne
armers hereabouts contemplate such
improvements we have not learned,
but Mr. Cronk, the Tum-a-Lum man
says that business in his line is be
ginning to hum and there will be
a lot of building done among the far
mers during the fall and winter.
An item in the Oregonian the first
of the week mentioned a big wheat
sale in the Idaho country, a farmer
up there disposing of this year's crop
nd a part of last season's and getting
a check of $30,000. Our section can
o this one better, and then some. C.
B. Sperry picked up a bunch of wheat
this week from Billy Padberg, of Lex
ington and handed over a check in
payment therefor of just a little less
than 40,000. In the deal was about
14,000 sacks of bluestem which Mr.
Padberg had already delivered at the
. ....
warenouse in Lexington, and some
4000 sacks more of the L. J. Padh
bluestem was picked up at Jord
wM(,,1 (lrew ()own ab()ut $1Q M()
ditiounl so we are informed. If Bil
lie could have had all his wheat down
'to the station his check would have
I been close on to as much more had he
chosen to let it all go, but his thresh-
ing is not all done yet.
last year's crop in this.
There w as no
We piMiumo
no one has undertaken to figure up
what the returns from the Morrow
county wheat crop will be this season.
It will be immense. Soniennp rp-
marked that he understood tliP cmn
some energetic fellow should get
.busy and figure out an estimate; it
wm prove interesting to the sellers
of automobiles and life insurance.
Richard Peterson, young farmer ot
Eight Mile is hauling wheat into
Heppner and his outfit consists of tea
horses and three wagons.
