HMUiiiii.iii n i,i i iiifiti!wpiiMJ' w-f win i ' Pmm"w "'' ' '" WIUI- -"p" kmvi wwpmiwwwjmjj
FINANCIAL EDITION
M
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
vofc.H.-No.iaa
PniLADEIiPniA, TUESDAY, JfEBItUARY 15, 1!)LG.
Corininnr, 1016, m tiis rns-io l.tpor.n Cohtani.
PBIOJ33 ONE OHNT
"w
jgt g& tokTT
-- - - - :cr ' , - ,
French regain
m TRENCHES
$ CHAMPAGNE
fpart of Positions Near Ta-
I hure liecapcurea -jj oes
Continue unensive
k0W CLEAR RAILWAY
Beuton Artillery Pounds Path
for Wedge -ivoiiow
Up Gains
PARIS, Feb. 15.
Tf,n French War Office today an-
fwmn" lhc rccal,luro of I'art of tho
h...!ips taken by the Germans in
KcfimpaBne on February 13.
" TflC lOHOWliig euiiiiiiuiiHiuu mi
ll Issued:
"la ChatnpnKne we nave rccapiurca
j)trl of the advanced trenches occu
;J hv the enemy on February 13
Pcist of die road from Tahurc to
Sommc'Py.
"In Lorraine there-wore some patrol
Engagements in the sector of Itcillon.
LONDON, Feb. 15.
m,t riermnns nro prepailng for n Bttll
neater olTcnslvo blow In tho Champagne,
lulgnti to hurl bnck tlio French on n
15-mue ironi iroin wiu viuuitiuiihu "
mv. according to dispatches iccelvcil
Ittre today.
Blnco early yesterday n Btcndy roll of
le.vy Gorman artillery hnH shaken tho
hfl!5 pf tho Champagne. The Ocrmnns
n hurling thousands of hlgh-cxploslvo
lhllj at tho French position? on the
ridges, concentrating ineir nro on lanuro
ud tho sector Just cast of tho Navarln
firm.
The bombardment was bo vicious that
Frtnch troops wcro under cover virtually
'. til of yesterday, according to advices re-
'ceived here. Sharp clashes between hand
frenade parties occurrcu nt mo western
ind of tho Champagne battlo front, lint
(hem was no attempt during tho daylight
hours to recapturo tho trenches taken by
tin Teutons In tho violent assault of tho
cfecedlng night.
Tho wholo western fighting front Is tho
tone of heavy engagements. At some
points tho" big puns havo been roaring
Incessantly for days; tho Infantry havo
bee.n engaged In hand-to-hand struggles;
grenade fighting nnd mining operations
hvo played a prominent part In tho
tattles, while airmen havo fought ono
another nbovo tho lines and havo been
riniibnaded from below by tho anti
aircraft guns.
The Germans fbllnwcd up their recent
success In Champagne by tho papturo of
u--iuonal half mllo of French trenches
OTTahr4napiiaijtrletA'an(t-tIiclr
arenery'bombarflmemsjWfuio nejgiiDor
biSict Masslgos: and .Navarln havo been
iranefcu lit Kiuu uy liiu rivuuiii
Tothe north of Solssons. around Terny
and along tho River Alsne, tho Germans
itarteian Infantry attaclc, but the French
Put It down with their guns and rlllcs.
'' To thi south of tho Sommo tho Germans
indenored to Rurrouiul outpost trenches,
tbot desisted under x heavy lire of tho
Ffench.
The text of tho French night commu-
nlquo was as follows;
In Belgium our artillery blow up a
munitions depot north of Bocsinnhe.
"North of Solssons, last night, after a
llmly bombardment, tho enemy's In
fantry attempted to dash forward by
vtKe Temy road and by tho right bank of
me Aisno. unoy wcro stoppeu snon Dy
Continued on 1'iiRe Fire, Column One
BALDWIN'S API) NEW PLANT
War Orders Prompt $500,000 Addi
tion Woodland Avenue Factory
, Is Leased
Prosnerltv. hrounht nbout bv mure war
f contracts, has caused tho Baldwin Loco
Unotlve Works tocontract for the erection
p a EOO.OOO factory addition to be located
t wtn and Hamilton streets, adjoining
- present plant. The new building- Is
J) be 109 by 400 feet, of steel and concrete
; construction nnd eluht stories lilch. The
Lwntract has been awarded S. "W. Marks,
uerelond, Ohio, who with Irwin nnd
Sl,e!jrhtOn t? tu nlt .iron ia nnlu
Wdder.
B me company also has acquired the large
ctory building owned by the Croft &
fAUen Company. Inc., nt 3233-3249 Wood-
uu avenue. It hai been leased for a
Hr!od Of Vpnrn nnrl lulll ha lloul fnn Din..
k'e purposes. Tho premises consist of a
lory and basement factory, contain-
fit aDOUt 100. 000 Hmtnrn foot nf snnna n.i.l
Xtendlnir frntn Wnnrllntwl ni'.nn. Hnviitat.
W Ludlpw street.
tPHE WEATHER
A Word nf nHiln. .,.. . i. ...
loin wu,,o iu ilia men vinu mo
Mu I 7 v"!tv " monument to Mr. bow
M ,1 B hu "fetlme. They should con-
itaJnw "cul"er. 'mere never lias been
;."" material winch will be proof
gainst tho. .iA ,.... ..,.
B" Petter than others, There Is some-
5,; ""uollc aDout the way marble
ii.. , '" ""s" ueiure wis raina. Alio
:.mai flnnufu nl.l.n , .... .....
Pt " -" wujeb (u juul a UIICIIIIHB
permanent pride. Even tho sands of
ueeert Jevel the features of the
K' They tell a story about the Nor-
ras.i. J-'.' """ wi up a statue to xosen
RWi.!,,Is "'etlme, The old playwright
Wm take his hat oK tp himself, sardon
H3' ;yery t,roe hd Passed the monu
KijT "t t soon began to show Blgns
P-Kay long before the living body It
ffiwtRoted did. They talk of the snows
RAi frmr as-fit, those snows were
tu, ' """reus, as a matter ot tacr,
PtL" resyr'ectea every winter.
jggj, - -i ,. tcnaiiiiy man uu t,reai
FfiTfRnAXT
Fpr Philnil,lnh! .7 -...:....
e'ir .;.; "ij ,-..""w. ""y
fTi. "V "'" rising lemperaiure
ESft1 a5d. Wednuday; moderate
Wiwdi hecoinO Variable,
- i -"-" nw J'uycj0f
tOST AND FOUND
PSuElifthIff,'J,ta Vh,1- ' '" ""-
5!'b ton .-" UI ieei, iniua
IUIU ii.m ,f fnrav!l,on,band. Ur
E, Udiet Central, Broad and Cht-
frSj.cm'f? S"w ioJ 1 return of dla
' Suura. ev11 rUlS platinum Mtilns hut
i WWkofl, ,f.n.r"'ir?' t-brl reward (or
I' t and tfouml AO ou l-ug is
CHILDREN PAY HONOR TO DR. R.
Youthful admirers of the noted clergyman nsscmblcd nt Temple
University today to help him celebrate his 74th birthtlny by giving
him a surprise party.
, ...J& ft W$mNmMm'
BRITISH SPIRIT
STEADFAST, KING
SAYS IN SPEECH
"Resolved on Reparation
for Unprovoked Outrages
and Aggression of
Power"
WAR SESSION REOPENS
England's determination to fight the
war to a victorious end was voiced
from the throne today when King
George's speech opening the Parlia
ment was read. It was as follows:
"The spirit of the Allies and my own
people remains steadfast in the re
solve to sccuro-repnration for the vic
tims of unprovoked and unjustifiable
outrages and agninst aggression of
power which mistakes force for right
and expediency for honor.
"Gentlemen of the House of Com
mons, you-'will be-itsked tdTnaktrdae
financial provision for the conduct of
the war.
"My lords-and gentlemen, the only
measures that will be submitted to you
are such as, in the opinion of my ad
visers, tend to the attainment of our
common object.
"I confidently commend these meas
ures to your loyalty and your patriot
ism, and pray the Almighty to give his
blessings to your counsels."
LONDON. Feb. 15
Pnillamcnt reassembled this afternoon
with severnl most vital Issues affecting
tho progress of tho war In tho balance.
For tho 111 st tlmo since tho reign of
Queen Vlctmla tho Sovereign wns nbsent
from tho opening session. A loyal com
mission, headed by Baron nucltmaster,
tho Iloynl Chancellor, conducted tho for
mal opening ceremonies In tho plnco ot
King George, who Is understood to bo still
suffering from the effects of his recent
Continued on race Vour, Column Thren
HUNDREDS OF LEPERS
AT LARGE IN COUNTRY,
SENATORS ARE TOLD
Dr. Dyer Declares Only Three
States Care for These
Sufferers
o
DANGER OF CONTAGION
WASHINGTON, Feb, 15,-Hundreds of
lepers are nt liberty In the United States,
exposing the public to contagion, accord
ing to leprosy experts who testified today
before the Senate Public Health Commit
tee, indorsing Senator Jtansdell's bill for
a J250.000 national leprosarium.
Dr. Isador Dyer, dean of Tiilane Medi
cal College, New Orleans, said It was
estimated that In New York city alone
there were 100 lepers at large. Others are
In Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis. In
the Louisiana State leper colony there
aro more than 100 patients. The chance
of contagion from leprosy Is about one
in one hundred, compared to tuberculosis.
Doctor Dyer said. House vermin should
be exterminated, because they may carry
leprosy germs.
Senator Snibot Bald lie had visited hun
dreds of lepers, nnd even slept In their
houses,
"Leprosy Is cuiable," declared Doctpr
Dyer, ''Only Louisiana, Massachusetts
ond California care for their lepers."
. . ' .
Russia to Buy 2,000,000 Scythes
Russia Is In the market for 2.OQO.0OO
scythes, according to Director W. P. Wil
son, of the Commercial Museum, who has
received inquiries from Rothertcord &
llnmmerlgh, a general contracting firm,
of Copenhagen. The query was forward
ed from Denmark esterday, and asserts
that the Danish firm represents Russian
customers.
Jog. AY, Potter, Camden, Hurt by Fall
Former Councilman Joseph. W Potter,
of Camden, Is In a. serious condition at his
home, 306 Cooper street, today, with a
fractured"hlp received whn he slipped
... i ru Th. nf.nllAnt oecurred
last night as he was returning home Mr
w . . i- ta . l.l In In Ihn
Potter, wno ib o vi . - -
care of Dr. Paul Mecray, of the Cooper
Hospital,
PLOT TO DESTROY
CATHOLIC CHURCH
SEEN IN CHEF ACT
Trail of Poison Banquet
Leads to Seat in Vat
ican's Shadow
WORLD-WIDE IN SCOPE
CHICAGO, Feb. 15. Tho trnll of tho
"Jcstroers," an anarchistic organization
bald to havo aworn tho destruction ot tho
Church, particularly tho Catholic Church,
was traced by Chicago pollco today from
Italy to Now York and from New York
ncross America. Catholic churchmen,
business men and 400 detectives nro en
gaged In tho effort to opposo a conspiracy
now boliovcd world-wldo In scope.
Authorities who nro holding John Alle
grlnl, alleged confidant of Jean Crones,
wanted for poisoning the soup at the re
cent banquet to Archbishop George Will
iam Mundoleln, declared thoy had estab
lished beyond a doubt that a great con
spiracy was on foot to destroy lives of
churchmen and church nnd club property.
Great public buildings and oven Iho Gov
ernment ot tho United States wcro-- ln
cluded,in,tho'Dlot. .,- " -ji- '..
" A? f oriiilU, chargo of !onsp(racy to com
mit murder wns mado against Allogrlnl
today, while pollco and Federal author
ities sent out an appeal to officials
throughout the country to nrrest Crones.
Letters found In Allcgrlnl's trunk,
translation of which was completed to
day, revealed tho plot of the "destroyers,"
pollco said.
They Indicated that headquarters of tho
society wero In Borne In tho very Bliadow
of tho Vatican, nnd that Crones and Al
legrlnl wore members of a committee ot
15, charged with tho noelcty's duties In
this country.
Tho 16tten) wcro frequently Interspersed
with drawings of bombs nnd enthusiastic
descriptions of tho quick carnago they
would produce.
ATTKMl'TS ON CIIURCHHS.
Tho recent attempt to wreck St. .rat
rick's Roman Catholic Church, Now York,
n lemarkable series of fires In Chicago
churches ana tho nllegcd attempt to
poison Aichblshop Jlumlelein and 300 dis
tinguished gucsttt at tho banquet Inst
Thursday wcro all linked by authorities
In their investigations.
Allegrlnl preserved a stolid silence In
Continued mi I'll KB Seven, Column Two
COLDEST FEB. 15 SINCE
1875 MARKS RECORD
City Still Icebound on Second
Day of Frigid Wave.
Warmer Tomorrow
Two Days' Temperatures
Today Ymterday
Midnight 11 13
la.m 10 12
2a.m 9 11
3n.m 9 10
4n.m 8 9
5 a. m ,. 7 7
Ca.m.r " 7 7
7 a. m 0 5
8 a, m 10 0
9 a. m 15 7
10 a. m 17 8
11 a. m 19 11
Noon 21 ' 12
lp. m 2-1 13
2p.m 20 15
Rising,
The city continues Ice-bound today,
wth tie lowest temperatures of the sea
son reported from the northern Atlantic
seaboard and upstate, where the mer
cury dropped far below zero.
The lowest point the mercury has
reached on February 15 since 1875 was re
corded this morning at 7 o'clock, with a
temperature of 6 degrees, only one degree
warmer than the record-making low mark
esterday. Private thermometers through
out the city, and especially in the sub
urbs, reported zero weather.
With the sun in a clear sky, however,
the temperature climbed upward In the
afternoon, reaching a. dozen degrees
warmer tlmn corresponding houra yes
terday. The forecas Is fujr, wfth rising
temperatures today and tomorrow.
The coldest point In the East Is Canton.
N. Y., with a, temperature of 3S degrees
below zero. The coldest town In the State
is Burning Well, McKean Count;-, where
32 below was recorded.
The entire street cleaning force and
hundreds of extra men continue at work
today on the task ot removing the snow
from streets In all sections of the city
Motor driven plows were used yesterday,
as the ico uii the streets interfered; 1114
terlally with the work of horse drawn
Vehicles.
H. CONWELL
FIFTY RUSH FROM
FLAMING ACID IN
HARRISON PLANT
Building Destroyed at 35th
Street and Gray's
Ferry Road
THREE ALARMS SENT IN
A spectacular $10,000 fire, which brought
out nearly every pleco of flrc-llghtlug np
paialus In South and West Philadelphia
today, desttoyed a largo nitric ncld build
ing nnd thicatencd to spread to others of
tho 8." buildings of Harrison Hi others &.
Co., Inc., chemical, paint, varnish nnd
whlto lead manufncturoiH, at 33th street
and Gray's Ferry road.
Fifty workmen escaped Injury when the
blinding Hash of Ignited chemicals on tho
first floor of tho building drovo them out
shortly after 0:30 o'clock this morning.
Tho flro spread rapidly and ono by ono 17
largo vnts filled with chemicals Mured up
with muffled dotonatlons that sent hugo
volumes of black stnokp high Into tho air.
Tho air wns filled with a noxious Bpray
ot ncld. which hampered tho fltcmcn In
their work, Thrco alarms wero turned In
iftylJt .vvnarejivtrjtabjf-lnt Jin. nccld?n(,n
wero encountered .by the flro engines,
which hurried to tho sceno ovor lco-coated
streets, -
Tho building, known ns No. 78, wns
razed by tlio flames, which curled along
n, trcstlcwork connecting tho burniiiB
building with No. 78-A. Volumes of water
wero thrown against tho trcstlo to pre
vent tho flames communicating with the
adjoining building nnd to others stored
with intlammablo chemicals, paints and
oils. Tho destroyed building wns a two
story structuto and measured 150 by 30
feet.
Tho flro was stnrtcd. It Is believed, by
tho explosion of a nitric acid pipe in a
saltpetio tank, sotting flro to tho nitilc
ncld fumes.
Three tanks, filled with nltrle ncld, and
each with a capacity of 2000 gallons, stood
near tho building, as did seven tank cms
on a siding. These wcio kept sonked with
water to piocnt their Ignition nnd
explosion.
Tho abattoir and qunrantlno pens nt
tho 1). B Martin Abattoir Company weio
threatened for a tlmo, but the flro was
confined to tho ono building after an
hour's fight. The pollco boat Iieyliurn,
plowing Its way trough tho Ice In tho
Continued on I'ace Three, Column llirre
$30,000 OIL PAINTING
RUINED BY FLAMES IN
J.H.MTADDENH0ME
"Miss Nelthorpe," by Lawrence,
Noted 19th Century Artist,
Wrecked in Collector's Fa
mous .Gallery
OTHER WORKS ARE SAVED
A $30,000 oil painting In the gallery of
John H. McFadden, art connoisseur and
cotton broker, was destroyed today In a
lire In his town house, 10th and Walnut
streets.
It was duo to tho. efforts of the employes
that tho lire did ibt extend to other art
treasures, the majority of which aro Ir
replaceable. Tarpaulins used by the fire
men checked much damage by water.
Tho painting "Miss Nelthorpe," by Sir
Thomos Lawrence', renowned 13th century
artist, was bought by Mr. McFadden sev
eral years ago In London. Although the
price 'was not made public, It was gen
erally placed In the neighborhood of I0,
000. This estimate. It was Bald at (he
family mansion today, was too liberal,
a conservative value being the 30,000 fig
ure. The fire Is said, to have been started
from defective wiring In the drawing
room, qn the 19th street side ot the house.
Servants quickly checked the flames to
prevent them frpm reaching the main
collection, but the $30,000 picture was jn
ruins In a few minutes. It was also ru
mored, but later denied at the house, that
a Gainsborough picture, valued at $15,000,
has been damaged,
Mr. MoFadden has long been known tor
his activities In collecting the best work
of artists, be haying a Jlno collection of
Japanese vases and works of art In addi
tion to other valuable paintings.
The picture,, by Lawrence was consid
ered one of "the best examples of the
artist's work, he Jiavlng gained his re
nown on portrait painting during the
nineteenth century, along with Gains
borough. Those In Kngland during the latter half
of the nineteenth century who neglected
tu have their picture paloted by Lawrence
Virtually threw themselves outside the so
cial world. Ills list of pictures was the
social Rasdcksr of the tune
WEAVERS GET $2
A WEEK ADVANCE
IN KENSINGTON
Ingrain Carpet Workers
Win Raise in 21
Factories
AFFECTS 1500 TO 2000
Hundreds of Thousands of Dol
lars Added to Manufac
turers' Payrolls
An In, renpo of nbout $2 n week hns conio
to tlio ingrain carpet weavers In 21 Kens
ington mills, ns the result ot a vnluntim
ndvnnco mmlo by nmnufnctuiots In that
section. The mlvnnco nfTects between
1500 nnd MOO workers and will mean nn
Increase of burnt! eds of thousands of dol
lars In wages In the roursc of n yenr.
Tho ndvnnco In wages hns iilreniU gone
Into effort, tho upnvcm on the narrow
I loom ami the u Indent nnd spoolers be
ing those who Imvo prollled by the In
crease Uoth of these classes at woiK
inen will rccrlvo it 1" per cent, ndvnmo
oer the old rate Ono ot tho laiger mill
owners wild today:
"This means n couple of dollars a week
extra for each weaver."
It was consldcied one of tho most mo
mentous events In wage Increasing that
has Inkcii place In tho mills of Kensing
ton for soino time, nnd that "couple of
dollars n week extra" means some com
fort or soma luxury not known befoie In
liuudicds ot Kensington's homes.
RAISKS OIVHN VOLUNTARILY.
This Increase In the pay of tho woaem
on narrow looms nnd to tho winders nnd
loomers, wlili'liMn the aggregate will
amount to nearly a quarter of a million
(IoII.iih n year, wai imido voluntarily by
the mill owners Workers on the wldo
looms had received tin Incrcnse In wnges
during tho lato fall.
Their woik Is described ns heavy, while
that ot tho workers on narrow looms can
bu performed by men of less physical
sticngth. Tho mill nwncrs concluded that
If ono class of operators was entitled to
nn Incrcaso both should recclvo It, with
Continued on I'nce Two, Column Inn
RUSSELL H. CONWELL,
74 TODAY, IS HONORED
BY HOST OF CHILDREN
Temple University Students
Pay Tribute to Beloved
Preacher-Lecturer on
7 :' Natal Day.., . ;. .
"FEELS OLD AS HE IS"
Dr. Russell 1. Conwell Is 71 years old
todny.
Every department of Tomple University,
of which he Is president, from tho tiniest
tots to tho university classes that will
bo graduated In June, was represented
In tho simple, informal exciclses held to
day at Rroad and Berks streets to testify
lovo nnd affection for tho noted clergy
man, educator and lecturer. x
Tho exercises, which had no fixed pro
gram, wero In charge of a committee of
students, of" which Harold Hrvln wns
chairman nnd Gcorgo Gladney, Robert
Schonkel and Glenn Toungo wcro nsslst
unts. Tea was served from tho forum
of tho university by three girl students
from tho llnuso Kclenco Depaitment, unit
distributed by tho smaller chlldien, who
woie responsible for tho exercises, which
were of the nature of a. surprise party.
CHILDRKN PItKSBNT GIFTS.
Doctor Conwell was summoned to the
forum and escorted to a seat on the plat
form. Emphatic reminders that It wns his
birthday woro soon forthcoming. A silver
mounted cane was presented by George
Gladney, of tho preparatory department:
nn artistic lamp from tho college depart
ment, a bnskot of fruit from the elemen
tary department, an automobllo lunch
hamper from tho business department and
a dictionary irom wie ijuyan-ui i-uutuuuu
department.
Doctor Conwell expressed his apprecia
tion for each gift with a brief and appro
priate speech.
After tho presentation of the gifts there
was a Polish dance by the Misses Kirk,
Rockleman nnd Howell and Messrs.
Sehenkel, Oodscliall and Lober. This was
followed by a solo by Miss Edith Gregg.
Led by little Nettle Wentz, 11 children,
each not more than 6 or 6 years old, en
circled Doctor Conwell, and Miss Wentz
presented to him a big red rose. The
Continued on l'use Set en, Column Oa
BATTAGLIA DI VELIV0LI
SV0LTASI SU MBLANO
Dieci Persone Uccise e la Porta
del Cimitero Abbattuta dalle
Bombe Austriache
I Ministero delta .Guerra Itallano ha
comunlcato che squadrlglle dl aeroplanl
austrlaci fecero nei giornl aqorsl attacchi
su parecchle cltta' dell'alta Italia, ojtre
che Mllano, e doe' su Brescia, Jergamo,
Trevlgllo, Momplano ed altre locallta', A
Mllano died persone rimasero uccise e la
porta dl brouzo del Cimitero Monumentale
.... .,..,, 11, n A a nnn hnmha nil
aeroplanl flnalmente furono messl In fuga
, I,...,, It.llnHl n Jnl fitni-n Hoi Ma...nnl
an venvui, iiuuau, , ui uuvu- ... ...,,
speclall. L'attacco su Brescia non pole"
essere fatta perche' gll ueroplanl nemlci
furono rlcevutl con un tale vlolento fuoco
dl artlgllerla che non potettero ayvicl
narsi alia cltta'.
Telegramml da Roma dlcono che In quel
clrcoll politlcl corre voce che nel marzo
prosslmo venture l'ltalla dlehiarera ja
guerra alia Germanla. Certo e' che ad
una simile soluzlone s dovra' venire un
glorno o l'altro In seguito al recento ac
eordo dell'Italla con gll alleatl, accordo
concluso a Roma dal presidents del Con
'sigllo francese, Briand.
Nel clrcoll mllltarl romanl si attends
con flducU che 1 bulgarl e gll austrlaci
(Leggere In 6 pagina le ultima e plu'
dettagliate notlzle Bulla guerra, in Itallano.)
QUICK NEWS'
PENROSE FOR HIGH SCHOOL MILITARY TRAINING
A course of military training at tho Central High School is fu
vored by Senator Penrose in a letter received todny by Henry B. Ed
munds, president of the Board of Education. The Senator also advo
cated a summer camp for the students.
TILLMAN ASKS PENROSE TO EXPLAIN ARMOR THREAT
WASHINGTON, Tcb. 15. Senator Tillman on the Senate floor
today called upon Senator Pentose of Pennsylvania to explain his re
cent message from the armor plate manufacturers that they will
choigc the Government S200 moie a ton for armor plate if Congress
passes the Tillman Government rumor plate plant bill.
ERZERUM AFLAME AS SLAVS ATTACK ON THREE SIDES
PIJTllOOIJAD, Feb, 15. Several flreH are raging In lOrzcrum, tho Turkish
city now liehiK attacked from three h!1oh by ItiiHsluu troops, according to
nd vices received nt tho War OIllco todny. The city Is virtually depopulated,
111010 than 35,000 liiliauUiiiitu having fled westward towaid Ereoliifrnn.
Following tlio capture nf one of the fottn defending Krzertini from tho cast,
Russian nrtlllory Is battering other foits to tho north nnd south. Shells
hurled upon these forts, which nro modern defenses erected outside tho city
wall, havo set numerous fires.
FRENCH AND SLAV AIRMEN SHELL CZERNOWITZ
VI13NNA, Feb. 15. A Hnumlron of enemy aviators dropped bombs upon
Cwcrnowltz, capital ot Bukowliiu. The inldlng airmen fled when Austrian
aviators roio to attaclc them. All escaped. Tlio hostile squadron wns com
posed of French and Russian aviators.
TWO CHINESE REPUBLICS PREDICTED
LONDON, Feb. 15. That China will bo split Into two republics ns tlia
result of the revolution stnttod In Yunniiu Province wns the prediction of well
informed Englishmen an Ivlng hero from Hong Kong today". Government
authorities of several southern provinces nro said to liavo secretly pledged
support to the Yunnan revolutionists .should thoy conquer Government forces
sent against them. Thus far no Importnnt battles havo occurred, but tha
rebels aro reported to bo gaining followers. Natlvo traders and southern
China business mgn are said to bo financing the rebels. Yuan Shl-Kal
realizes his helplessness, they reported, and Is devoting himself to consolidat
ing his position in the north. The Yungtse RJer, it Is nssumed, will bo
tho dividing line.
MISSISSIPPI LEVEE BREAKS; CITIZENS FLEE
NATCHEZ, SIlss.. Feb. 15. Tho main Mississippi River levco .about 25
miles above St. Joseph, Miss., broke enrly today. Tho flood waters aro pouring;
through a hugo crevnsse, which hns widened to a mile, and hundreds ot
persons nro making their way to thn highlands. Parishes of Tenasas, Con
cordia, Madison, Franklin nnd Catahoula and BO towns will bo flooded.
FLORIDA LIMITED WRECKED; ONE KILLED
RALEIGH, N. C, Feb. If.. Tho Florida Limited, ono of tho "crack" trains
of ( tho Seaboard Air lnc..jyajtoyrr'c:k,c.d near hero.par;y.J!today. -Ehls Js. ih.
second "wreck of "tlio Limited' In a. week. Ono person" was killed and two
Injured. Tho truln was bound for Now York.
GERMAN FUTURE GLOOMY, HOUSE'S REPORTED VIEW
ROME, Feb. 15. One of the men accompanying Colonel House on his
mission to Berlin confided to n friend now staying at San Itemo that Colonel
Houso was convinced that financiers In chargo of tho financial affairs of tho
German Government fully realize that a catastropho to tho German Emplro Is
inevitable. The German people, however, do not sharo tho knowledge of tho
financial experts, and, being deceived by tho Balkan successes, nro hopeful
of victory.
BRITISH TO FORTIFY SAMOAN ISLAND
PAGO PAGO, Samoa, Feb 1 (by mail to San Francisco, Fob, 15), Apollma,
tho smallest of tlio Samonn Islands, Is to bo fortified by tho British Administra
tion now occupying German Samoa, It has been announced. Apollma Ilea be
tween the two largo Islands of Upolu nnd Savall. Authorities pay It will mako
nn almost linpiegunblo fortress. The people of Apollma ore to be remoed to
Upolu. O
BRITAIN TO MOBILIZE 100,000 WOMEN ON FARMS
LONDON, Feb. 15. Tho London Dally News nnnounccs tho Government
has decided to organize a recruiting campaign for women to work on laud.
It Is proposed armlets bo Issued to women willing to undertake farm work
nnd that thoy be entitled to wear especial uniforms. Every village will be
canvassed by women's committees, as It Is considered essential that an army
of at least 400,000 women be mobilized. All who volunteer will bo registered
and given nrmlots and uniforms which will consist of coat, Bklrt, stout boots
and gaiters. Already more than 250,000 men have been withdrawn from agri
culture and It Is anticipated 100,000 mora will bo called. Virtually only shep
herds, ploughmen nnd others Indlspensablo will remain.
PREMIER BRIAND BACK IN PARIS
PARIS, Feb, 16. Arlstldo Brtnnd, tho French Premier, arrived in Paris
last night from his visit to Italy, Later ho received n number of tho political
leaders and told them how deeply ho had been touched by tho reception accorded
him by King Victor; Emmanuel and tho Italian Government and people. "Whllo
It was Impossible for him to give any Idea as to tho results achieved in Ms
visit, the Premier said he had every reason to congratulate himself. Ho added
that ho had brought back a most satisfactory Impression.
AMERICANS GIVE HOSPITAL TRAIN TO FRENCH ARMY
PAItlS, Feb. 15. A hospital train of 13 cars, tho gift of two wealthy Amer
icans, has been presented to the French Government, Laurence V, Benet,
formerly member of the Chamber of Commerce In Tarls, made the presentation
address at the Chapello railroad station, where the train temporarily Is sta
tioned. Justin Godart, Under Secretary ot Stato for Sanitary Service, accepted
the gift. II referred to many similar acts of sympathy on tho part of Amer
icans and declared their friendship for Franco was traditional. The train la
fitted with tho most modern equipment nnd can accommodate 225 wounded per
sons. It has the latest surgical and medical equipment and furnishes as much
comfort for tho wounded ns is possible to obtain.
ZAPATISTA STRONGHOLD CAPTURED
MEXICO CITY, Mex., Feb. 15, After a severo engagement Government
troops occupied tho town ot Ajusco, the last stronghold of the Zapatlstus be
tween Mexico City and Cuernavaca. It Is ofllclally announced that Zapata's
followers are rapidly evacuating Cuernavaca, fearing the approach of the Consti
tutionalists. DEPUTY CHARGES INSULT TO HUNGARIAN FLAG
BUDAPEST, Feb. 15. Count Karolyl, president of tha Hungarian Independ
ent party, In the Diet Interpellated the Government concerning a major having
ordered a company ot Hungarians to remove the Hungarlaif flag during a march.
Premier Tlza, replying, said the Incident could be explained on other grounds.
There could be no talk of an Insult to the Hungarian flag, as tha Austro-Hun.
garlan War Minister had by express order permitted the usa ot the flag by th
army. The Premier rebuked Count Karolyt for his Insinuation that tha military
authorities were prejudiced against thq Hungarian flag, and read a letter front
Archduke Frederick praising the bravery ot tha Hungarians.
f r
TURKISH AVIATORS ATTACK KUT
LONDON. Feb. 15. The following report on the situation In Mesopotamia,
has been issued by the War Ottlc: "General Alymer reports that the situation
Is unchanged. General Tovvnshe&d, at Kut-sl-Amara, states that an awuphuie.
flew over the town and dropped two bombs. No damage was done."
