Randolph One
Will Put You in Quick Touch
With TheT-D Want Ad Man
66th year
VOI.I'MK mi
irs
richmond, va., tuesday, february 15, 1916.?fourteen pages.
-fair
Dr. Brady's Talks
Don't Miss Them?Something
Interesting Every Day
price, 2 cents
TEXTBOOK REPORTS
SENT MATE
Educator-Members of State
Board Defend Recent Book
Adoption.
MINORITY IN SHARP DISSENT
Senate Orders Reports Printed
for Consideration Later On
in Session.
.
Throe reports from the State Hoard I
of Kducatlon, rrolng into detnll an to.
tho recent mloption of textbooks! for.
tho public schools of the State, weroj
laid before the State Senate yesterday,
and were ordered printed as a Senate
document. There wan no debate, nor.
wan any time set for a further cun-l
sitteration of the schoolbook question.'
The printed reports will be in the1
hands of the Senators to-<lay, and, ;f
satisfactory, may closo the incident, I
though it has h?en suggested that tho}
individual members of the State Board'
of Kducatlon may desire to make;
further explanations of their votes for
different book adoptions.
The ie[>jrt of the board, wh^eh ini
signed V>y the edurator members, so^s
into detail as to the various chissiflca-i
Hons of books and oxplalnn the changes!
*tt length.
MIXOItlTY OKfXINKS TO
JOI.V IN I)i;iT.\M-,
The minority, consisting of the Gov-1
es nor. A'. torney-fJeneral and State Su-t
perintendent of I'ublic Instruction, d'-i
cllned tn Join in .1 defense of a seriea]
of books for the adoption of which'
th< y had not voted. The ludividual,
statement of Pr. J-irtiPM Sou'hall Wil-J
soli, o? William ar:d Mary College, who
became a. member of the board while
the bonk adoption was tinder considera
tion. was printed in foil ir. 'Die Tiincs
Pispateh of Sunday. The report of the
ioard and the minority statement are
given in full in this issue.
There are several bills before . the
(Jer.eril Assembly which owe their
origin to the schoolbook controversy,'
directly or indirectly, including a
measure to limit the adoption of text-1
books to i??ire in ten years. Then- arc
also pending various proposals for
chancres in the Constitution eliminating
the nopelective members of the State
lloai'l of Kducation. alined by the:r
patrons to make the board more di
mm th r. *por.?lve to the w:.--h's of the
people. both i ii the matter of book!
adoptions and in the scle n' d;
ision superintendents
ti:tt ok hKi'oitTs or
STATK IK) A It I) OP EDrr.VTIOX:
The repo-t of the board in response
?o the Jeffreys-Robertson resolution
follow s
To the Senate of Virginia:
The State Hoard of Kdiication begs
!?? ive to submit tin- following report
tr T<-:- pop J. I *j >' it.- resolution No.
10. requesting th.' in .lid t<. communi
cate 'o your honorable body the r?a
sonr. for the recent chances made in the
textbooks for the primary schools.
The changes were made*
First. To got the bf t books on the
market. The children of Virginia and
teachers are entitled to the '..est books
published.
Second. To get as low pi it e as possi
ide. The prices of books in Virginia
are as low as anywh- re iri the 1'nited
States for the same books. Contracts
with publishers amply protect patrons
against discrimination in prl^o and
kIvo them benefit of all reduction in
price.
Third. To secute .1 ui..form single
list of hooks for the entire State, so
that pupils moving from city to coji ??
or county to city will rot have to
change any of tiicir t-'xts.
i'ouith. To adopt books of such un
questioned excellence as to reduce to
a minimum the demand for future
changes.
? HAxens a it 12 < i.ASMiir.n
I WHICH Sl\ HEAPS
The changes are classified under the
following heads:
T. Hooks changed on account of the
fact that they are out of date, the needs
of the schools requiring new or re.
vised material and to save needless
added expense by dropping unnecessary
books.
II. llooks changed because of equal
t>r greater merit at lower price.
nr. Books changer] on account of su
perior merit at the .same or higher
price. Where the price i-> higher than
the obi books, the superior merit of
the new hook, in the opinion of the
board- clearly justified the change.
IV. Hooks changed in order to bring
about a single list for the entire State
and to furnish to the children of the
whole Slate superior text.-!.
V. Hooks, the change of which is a
negligible factor.
VI. Hooks Involved in the H K. John
son's proposition, on the acceptance of
which the State hoard was divided.
These texts arc also classified under
] II.
HOOKS CLAIMED TO IIAVK
IIKCO.MIO OUT OP IJA.TI5
J. Hooks changed on account of the
fact that they are out of date, the needs
of the schools rcqu'rlng new or re
vised material and to save needless
added expense by dropping iinn\jccs
aary books.
<l) Old text?I.ee's School History,
cents (on list for sixteen years).
S'tw text?Chandler's Our Republic, 15
cants. Saving, 20 cents.
Chandler's .Makers American History,
10 cents, book dropped, 40 cents.
Old text?Magi It's l'rlma.ry His
tory, tr> cents; Magill's History of Vir
ginia, 6S cents. A revision of this text
was offered at cents. lOn list 1S77
to present, with exception of one adop
tion.) New text?Smithey'a Virginia
History, 54 cents. Saving, !> cents.
Hook dropped. 4f? cents.
II. Hooks changed because of equal
or greater merit at lower price.
U) First Supplementary Headers:
"Irl text?The Wide Awake Primer, 23
cents; Stepping Stones First Header, 20
cents: Stepping Stones Second Reader,
"5 cents; Stepping Stones Third
''lender, .10 cents; Stepping Stones
Fourth Header. 35 cents; Stepping
(Continued on Ninth Cage.)
\
Cold Wave Will Break,
Says Weather Bureau
WASIIlXIJ'I'O.N, l'"ol?ruur>' 1-1.?The
??old vrnve tvhich Iiiim hnd tlir entire
eiiHtrrn pnrt i?f the country from
Mlilne to Klorliln In Uk grip for the
pnnt thlrty-wlv luiuri will he lirokon
to-niorro?v, the Weather Iturena an
nounced to-nljjht. The temprrutiire
"111 hetcln rUliiK lo-morroir, nnil
moderate (empcrntiirrx will continue
thereafter for ?c\crul iIiijk.
The cold nprll followed n Mtnrm
"hlcli came out of the Ohio Vnlley,
nnil win Kenernl on Suiiilny night
ulong the Atlantic HPiihonril f roin
lloston to .fiicknon vlllr. To-day
there wrre frrrtliiK t r in jiernt lire* nw
tar Mouth hh Northern 1'lorldn. nltli
the loumt temperature IIS degree* i
helo?> ncru nt (.'tinton, V.
LAYMEN EMPHASIZE
TRUTHS OF RELIGION
Want. Religion Drought Into .Market
Plu?f nml Ttiihincss Methods
Into Christian Work.
TKIjLS OF VISIT TO MISSIONS
Tourist l?e?cribrs Conditions In Many
Countries and Deep Hold Christi
anity Is Taking?Registration of
Delegates Now Rxreeds I,TOO.
Deep]y emphasizing the importance
of bringing r> llglon Into lh" market
place an'J of taking tho sound prin
ciple." into the work of sowing the
s.^ed of Christianity all over the world,
thro speakers last night ad??r<r?cil a
mass-meeting of men ?? th< Oraeo
Street Ha[.tist f"h ir'-li, under the aus
pices of t })?'> r.aym-n's Missionary
Movement. Oliver J. Sands. president
of the American National Bank, pre
sided, ar?l introduced the .speakers.
Huring the afternoon there was a meet
ing <>f ministers for conference and
prayer, led l?v I'.ev. Worth M. Tippy,
of New York.
The enrollm? 1.: of <!? !< gates was
stated by Secretary Bro* n last night
to have exceeded J.700.
lilVKS TOt llivrs view
OF >1 l)>MON WOlt Iv
After tho invocation by Ilov. <"!. l'ree
land I'et. r, rector of .St. James Kpls
copal Church, Mr. Sands introduced the
hrst speak* r of tin- evening. Rev. J. N.
Mills, r>. D.. traveler and lecturer, who
spoke on "A Tourist's View of Mis- >
j slons." He spoke as the man who
visited the-missions, not in any oflicial
capacity, but merely as a tourist. Ho
tfild of writers who visited the Orient.
1 and came back anil criticized missions
they had never visited L?r. At 11 Is ex
plained that it was like the Kngllsh
; travel.-r and sportsman who complained
that he had v<-r m ? n a Christian
native in India. He was asked if he
had ever seen a tiger. and his answer
was that he had shot many of them. j
I>r. Mills then said that in all his j
1 travels through India he had never
seen a tiger outside of tnc zoological
gardens. "Thus it is with the travel
| i rs." Dr. Mills said: "your tourist sees
' what he goes out to see, whether it is ?
timers or Christians. When Bryan,
Taft, I'oosev.-lt ar.d Fairbanks came
; back from th>'ir respective Journeys
' they announced to the world the won- ?
i 'ii-rfu! work that the missionaries are |
| doing in foreign lands."
SKKTCIIK.S DIM III 1 \ \I \ <.S
OK M ISSIO.VAH V MOVKMK.XT
T.'r Mills sketched tl"? dim begin
i mugs of the missionary mowment and
? of thv opposition in foreign countries. -
Ho told of the present broad scope of
: missionary work which has grown out
'of these humble starts. Hospitals,
j schools, colleges, institutes for tho
j blind, colleges of agriculture and
| leprosy havens are now in operation
by the Christians In foreign lands. He.
j told of prominent missionary workers,
j principally of Richard Hume, at Horn
' bay, who was decorated by King
! (Jeorge for his service to India: or
; missionary physicians who work for a
few hundred dollars a year, whereas if
' they took up private practice they
j could mnke as much in a month as they
j mako in a year. The mayors of
j seventy Chinese cities, and sixty-four
; members of the Chinese Parliament are
I Christians, and the ten young women
'sent by the Chinese government to
colleges in America this year are
! Christians. There are -1,000.0<>0 Chris
| tians in India. The Judge of the Su
' preme Court of Korea is a Christian,
j One of the three peers just created by
the Kmperor of Japan is a Christian,
j Christians have been decorated with
j the third order of the Rising Sun by
j the Kmperor of Japan.
j CHRISTIANS HAYF. PAItT l\
iti:?i:.M:uATio.\ or japa.v
i At a recent conference in Japan for
j the purpose of uplifting the morals of
i tho nation there were present thirteen
jshintos, fifty Buddhists and seven
J Christians. All of these facts, Dr.
, Mills sild, showed that tho work of
Christian mlsions was not In vain.
Rev. II. C. Mabie, H. !?., of Boston,
j was tho next speaker. His sul.ject
j was "The World M- or->.ge for Our
I Time."* He said: "There Is a timoli
j ness in this message that is always
j old and yet is always new. This mes
' sage Is tremendously misunderstood. It
is the confusion of the tragedy of the
crucifixion and the cross of the atone
ment. HI Ilung Chang misunderstood
it when he said, 'No Jesus who was
brought to His end on a gibbet or a
cross can ever hope to win China.'
"What the great Chinaman did was
to confuse the criminal act of those
who cried for the life of Christ. The
Apostle Paul knew that there was a
diffrtrenco. He knew that tho atone
ment meant the reconciliation between
Hod and sinful man. The atone
ment was tho sublimes! moment In the
history of the eternal Hod. The dying
thief on the ptohf with Christ also saw
the cross of the atonement when be
cried out. 'Jesus, remember mo when
(Continued on Fifth f'agc.)
Provides for Compulsory Attend-j
ancc of All Children Between
Eight and Twelve.
FOR ANOTHER LIME PLANT
Senate Passes Drastic Bill Regu
lating Operations of Com
mission Merchants.
Pi .!? ' without debate. Hi"
r.f Debrates yesterday passed the
Hums compulsory-education Ml., ?'
I,ill providing for the establishment "f
an additional llme-g rinding plant In
Tidewater Virginia, and tlit- Pn^e
Hundley In 11. making tl"' unaut hor
izcii us" of automobile* a misd-mcnnor.
ouiitshahle by lino or imprisonment.
All throe bills cjo now to the Senate
tor concurrence.
Delegate Walton, <>f llanoV'-r. asKr<i
that th- education ldll bo passed by
until to-day on lite ground that ther*
u.,s not a full attendance of tlio
Ho<i?e. and that it was advisable to
n\? mvi rv member an opportunity < C
votliur or. s-. Important :i measure. !f
the hill were passed by, he said, he
would Interpose no further obstacle in
the way of brlntrlng the bill to a Mnal
vote.
Advocates of the bill, however, de
clined to entertain the HUKK^stlon.
Ixbt-.it- Wo lion's motion t" pais l>y
way defeated by an overwhelming ma
jorltv. and the bill itself passed b-.
voto of r.r? to *-'3 The measure re.ju'res
j,nt en's or guardian* to s-- 'l to j" hool
Illiterate children between the a?res of
eight and twelve years who are
physically at:d mentally s?und. and
who live within two miles-- of a school,
at least until they can read and write.
im.i.
I'.VSSKS HOI'SK, 07 TO r.
Delecate Kpes, of Nottoway, opposed
the of th?- lime-grinding bill,
holding that in this day of precarious
revenues and increased public-school
noedr there was no justillcation for ti e
expenditure of J2r?.000 oti an additional
plant. His motion to pass the bill by
was decisively defeated. Half a dozen
members replied t'? the argument, '>t
the member from Nottoway The hill
was passed by a vote of 07 to
Under the stimulus of the joint revo
lution adopted by both house? which
will re'iuir? inanltnous consent for the
introduction <>f general bills after Fri
liav. tile 5 lou?e developed a crop of
bills whirh, while small compared with
the volume of earlier days., included
toveral of the most far-reaching meas
ures that have Im-'i offered the pres
ent session.
Delegate IMwards. of Carroll, sent
to the desk a bill whi. h provides f--r
submittltst; to the voters of the State
the question of calling a Constitutional
Convention f'-r the purpose of re\ Islng
ar.d arvndln't fhe present Constitu
tion. The bit\ provid i for an elec
tion to be hell on the Tuesday suc
ceeding the fust Monday in November
..f 1MT and tot the certification of the
result by the Oowrnor to the f.or.eral
Assembly of 1MV
it a k i'it ori-*i-.iti:i> mi.ii roit
Itl'lMOVAii OK t.IltliS' IIOMI-:
Carrying out the governor's r.H'om
mend.at ons w ith respect ''< the \ it
irlnia Home and Indurtrial School for
?"tirls. Delegate W. W. 1'.alter, chair
man of the House Finance Committee.
Introduced a bill providing f"i the
abolition of the home in Chesterfield
County, for the immediate sal" of "he
land and improvement* and f or the
transfer of the inmates to th-- cate
and custody of tl e State l.pileptlc
Colony it Atnherst Count;..
The bill directs the t'Jowrnoi and
board of directors' of the Virginia Home
and Industrial School t>> sell the
acre tract and buildings, hut not to
; accept less than $l*,000. It is under
1 stood that an ofTer of this amount has
i already been made for the property.
I The bill provides an additional appro
priation of $20,000 to the l-.p'.b ptic
| Colony, to be used In providing the
'additions and Improvements tn.it will
1 be made necessary by the tran^-tei of
I the girls now cared for in the Chester
field County institution and others who
I will be committed in the fiitu.-v
i>ini:?'TOits svn> to
sro?r:sTi-:n MF.itc.nit
A majority of the present hoard of
I directors of the Virfilnla Home and
1 Industrial School, it i.-' stated, .i.e
irrevocably opposed to the plan out
lined 'it the bill, or to the merger of
the homo with any other State institu
' tion. These, it is expected, will make
a .iclermltted Tisht against the. enact
iment of the P-aU.r bill into law
' The House was tn the midst of a
I general debate on the game bill w! en
it adjourned r*t - o'clock. The coii
' sbleratioii ?f this important measure
'will be resumed this morning, w'th
{ Delegate Willis, of lioanolce. .me of the
?patrons, leader of the forces favoring
i its passage.
1 With two dissenting votes, the Sen
I nto vesterday passed the bill providing
I for the registration of commission
i merchants and empowering the State
! Commissioner of Agriculture and Im
| migration to revoke tiuir licenses for
violations of the law. Senators Can
non and Wcndonburg voted in the nega
I tive.
("OMMlSSlUN-Mr.ltCII V NT III 1,1..
has HUASTIC l'llOVISIONS
' As originally drawn, commission tner
| chants throughout the Slate protested
J against numerous provisions of the
I bill and storiped the Capitol in Tull
I force to register their objections with
the committee. A parttal agreement
w-as reached, however, between the
i warring partle.s. and the measure, as
it now stands, meets the approval of
i many who opposed the original draft,
j Section a of the bill empowers the
commissioner to decline to grant a
certificate or revoke a certificate, al
ready granted where lie is satisfied of
the existence of any of the following
causes:
Where a money judgment has been
entered against a commission merchant,
land Upon which execu'.ioii has b.;cn
^Continued on Tenth Page.)
I Of
Daring Exploits Make Vessel
One of Most Popular in
British Navy.
SCARS OF MANY ENCOUNTERS
In More Naval Actions of Pres
ent War Than Any Other
English Ship.
l.ONDON", February 14. ? The British
? rMts"!* Arethusa struck a mino t?
off tho cast coast of Knglnni), accord-|
Ing to ;i statement issued by the Brit
ish oflk-ial press bureau, it is feared,
the statement adds. thu vessel will bo.
a total wrcck. About ten men woro!
los?.
Tho admiralty's announcement that
ili? Arethusa had struck a mine and
probably war a wreck brings wide
spread regret. as the cruiser was on?
? f the most popular ships In th? navy,
.irul generally known an the "Saucy'
Arethusa" She was covered with scars
from many encoxinters. and Is believed
tn hav" been in more naval nation:)
of pv.'f iit war than any other ship
in the navy. Within three- days after
leaving the shipyard where she was
built ?he was in a naval fight in tho
North Sea. and hod the distinction <>f
firing the torpedo which Anally settled
th? fate of the German cruiser
Blueeher.
I)i:s? UII'TIOV OK PAItT
IV IIKUIOUM) KlfillT
Of hei part in the Helgoland fight,
the official account at the time stated:
"The Arethusa. loading the destroyers,
was first attacked by two 'Jernm
cruisers and sharply engaged for
thirtv-five minutes at a ranee of S/iO't
yard.!, with the result that she sus
tained some damage and casualties. !>ut
drove off two German cruisers, one of
which was seriously injured bv her
.six-inch guns."
The Arethusa later engaged two other
<>: man ships ar.d, in company with a
li:rht cruiser squadron, contributed to
the sinking of the German cruiser
Mainz, in this encounter many of '.lie
Aretpusa's guns were disabled, and she
wis about to be overpowered when a
British battle squadron o;"nortunely
r.rn'ved an<l sank iier antagonists.
Although one of the smaller light
?inisers, her lighting qualities and her
exploits had given her a reputation of
??inbodying the fighting spirit ot' the
British navy.
When foreign Journalists visited the
l Arethusa lai-t January scars of battle
: were pointed out by the officers all
' over the vessel. deck galley amid
ships had been i-ntir>']y ?hot away. a
i melinite sh? l! ;rt\ing exploded in it.
This had been rebuilt. <>ne dent in the
side armor was pointed out as b!g as a
| wash bowl. The upper works vt.re
I literally peppered with shrapnel, but
the scars hail been neatly bandaged
(with two-Inch riveted steel plates, ho
'that the Arethusa was again in php.pe
for another fray.
Iom.y o\k ni:i.ii:vi:i> vavf.i)
FKOM 'I'll K A.MIIIAI, t'IIA It X I Ml
PARTS, February <4.? Reports of 'he
; loss of the French cruiscr Amiral
I Oharner. which was reported to havn
i been sunk by a submarine which was
! patrolling the s\ ri.-'.r. coast, were eon
| firmed to-day.
According to information received at
the French Ministry of M-trine, a raft
bearing one live sailor and the bodier;
of fourteen of his companions has been
picked up of!* Die coast of Syria All
others of *ijo >.>?.- .ire beli?ved to b.*i\e
ibeen io.-t
AMERICAN RELEASEO
| l riteut Representation* by State lle
pnrtinrnt In Case of Hnrrjr
Hacker, of Orlwinn.
I
! IjOXDON", February 14.?Harry I
| Hacker, of New Orleans, detained by the
. British authorities for two months, af
' tor having been taken t'rom a liner at
Gibraltar, has *???? released as a re
I suit of urgent r* i>!'";, utatiotis hv the
j American State Department.
: Backet's passport was regular. and
j no nanons have been given for his de
tention. On his return to tho United
States he may seek the aid of tho State
Department to obtain some compensa
tion from the British government.
The overlapping of the jurisdiction
of various departments has caused
?much vexatious delay in the case of a
j number of innocent Americans, de
j tained l>y the British authorities, and
jthe American embassy has finally suo
! eeeded in having recognized its con
tention that a \ did passport Is the
j only evidence ?e-.sary to establish
! citizenship.
Richmond's
Dollar Day
There ;ire a lot of wonderful
values to be had for $1.00, and
the Richmond merchants will
offer them to the public on
February 16
Richmond's
Dollar Day
Keep this date in mind and
watch The Times-Dispatch
to-morrow morning for sur
prising announcements. This
store news will be twelve
hours later than any other.
Declaration of Candidacy for Re
Election Made in Letter to
Ohio Secretary of State.
ACTION CLARIFIES SITUATION
Expected to Bring Into Open
Campaign Being Made in His
Favor Throughout Country.
WASHINGTON", February H? -Pr? si
d e n1 Wilson consented to-day formally
for 111first time for tli" use of his
nunip as a presidential candidate in the
'.'Otning campaign. At the same ti
l.e declared he was "entirely unwilling
to enter int" any contest" for renom
ina.lon.
This definition of tho President's at
titude, in line with tlie plans of lus
political associates. Is expected to bring
Into the op"ti th*? campaign being made
in his favor throughout the country.
Mr. Wilson's declaration was made in
a letter to the Ohio Secretary of S'ate,
who had written that candidates for
delegates from that State to the r.a-j
tional convention must signify their'
choice!* for President hy February 2*>.
and that no presidential candidates
could t>e named in that, connection
without their consent.
In several other States in which stj> h
requirements are imposed, Mr. Wilson'-;
name already has been placed on pri
mary ballots, and his friends generally
have taken it for granted that he would |
he a candidate if convinced there was1
any considerable popular demand for it. i
I.F.TTKU IS IV avs\vi:h
TO FOR.MAI* NOTIFICATION
The President wan formally notified
of the requirements of the law last
week, and to-day he wrote Charles |
Hlldchrant. Secretary of State of < >hio,
j as follows:
"1 am inclosing to you a lett?r. the
I occasion of which. I daresay, will be
, quite obvious Friends in Ohio have
| called my attention to section ?>!>."? of
1 the General Code of Ohio as amended
in 1M4 with regard to primary elec
! tions, and have requested that I indi
i cate r.iy willingness to have my name
used.
j "I. accordingly, take the liberty of
( sending you the inclosed letter as
I formal permission under the statute."
The letter the President inclosed was
? as follows:
"While I am entirely unwilling to
enter into any content for the presi
! ileutial nomination of the Democratic
party, I am willing to permit the use
of my name, that the Democrats in
? Ohio may make known their preference
in regard to that nomination.
"In order, therefore, to satisfy the
technical requirements of the statutes
| of the State of Ohio, I hereby consent
j to the use of my name as a candidate
; for the presidency by any ennilidate
! who seeks to l?e elected a delegate to
t the National Democratic Convention
1 which is to assemble in .lune next."
j CANDIDATF OVI.Y IF
DKMOCnATS DF.SlftK IT
> The President takes the position tluit
the voters will have t ?> determine
? whether he will "'ike the race for the
presidency in 191 ?> as the Democratic
i candidate. In a letter written to A.
'Mitchell Palmer before his inaugura
) tion. Mr. Wilson made it plain that
he would only be a candidate again
] if the Democratic voters desired it.
| The National Democratic Committee
? has prepared all the campaign material
i with the idea that he would he the
party candidate.
The formal announcement to-day is
, expected by Democratic leaders to
j clarify the political situation through
j out the country. Supporters of the
' President, they said, now would be able
j to work for him more openly.
j WII.SON AI'HAII) ONI.V OK
COI.ONMl. A XII KAISF.lt
1 Special to The Times-Dispatch. |
WASHINGTON. February I I.?The
j latent word on politics from Theodore
; Roosevelt reached Washington to-day,
j accompanied l?y a large dense cloud o<
l mystery. Sam Sells, an old-line Repub
: 1 lean, who represents the First District
i of Tennessee In the House, brought t' e
tidings. lie and Roy (.?. Woodruff, it
. Michigan, who was in the lrist Cnn
j gross as a Progressive Representative,
jcalled on the Colonel last week Just
; b ?fore tho former President started
on his vacation trip.
The\ found the Colonel performing
his usual stunt of chopping large quan
| titles of cordwood in the now n^ar'./
1 denuded timber country about Oyster
I Ha v. Rong Island. Pausing to mop his
forehead r,nd loan on his heavy :?x.
j the former President is it-ported as
Fay In tr. among other tilings:
"I am not for any particular Rcpuh
; lienn candidate for the presidency, but
i 1 am against the re-election of Wooil
! row Wilson. He has deadened the
I conscience of the American people by
j his foreign poliey. There are only two
things hr- is afraid of. I am one and
! the Kaiser is the other."
! Representative Sells could not give
| any light on Colonel Roosevelt's views
.'as to the availability of Theodore
| Roosevelt as a candidate for the Re
publican nomination, i'n this point he
I Raid Oyster liay was still in a fo:r of
? mystery.
CLARK'S WORDS APPLAUDED
I Statement That There Is No Intention
to (lieil Kitchin an l.eadei*
liead Into Record.
j ,
1 WAS111NOTON, D. C.. February 14.?
; Speaker Clark's statement last night
i that there was no Intention to dispose
; of Representative Kitchin sis majority
'leader of the House was read into the
i record to-day on motion of Represen
i tative Sims, of Tennessee. All of the
! Democrats ami one or two Republicans
'applauded the reading.
I "A good old-fashioned amen to that,"
j said Representative Hull, Republican,
I of Connecticut.
Heavy Engagements
on Western Front
Till-; ttliole ?rslrrn lls&lltltig front
is tile MTIIC of lirtlt) OIIBllKf
liieiitw. \t Home pnliMd the IiIk ciiiih
lime Itrrn murine liico**nntl> for
tinyst the Int'nntrv litis been en -
Sncril in hnnd - to-luoid Kfruggles:
Kri n.iilr tluhtlni; nml niiiilnK opern
llon.s hnvr plnyeil n prominent part
in the lintlkx, irliilr nirinen linvc
fouuli t each other above the lines
unit Imtc been ettnnoiitided from lir
lii? li? tin- nntinirvrnft cunt.
'I lie t,ermnns followed up tlieir
rci'Mil .success ill < hiuupiigne Iit the
enp1 nre of nn additional hnlf mile of
I ri'tuli tri-nelies nroiinil Tnhtire. in
tlint district. nml flieir artillery liont
hitrdtceiits in the neighborhood of
MnsKltsfM nn?! Nninrln Imvf been
nnswi-red Iti kiml by tin* Krcnrh.
To the north of Solssons, nrmtnil
'I'rrny niitl nlonu the Itlicr Msne,
the t.crnmn* started nil infnnlrj- nt
tnek. hut the Kreneh put It tlnnu
with their gqns ami rifles.
To the south of the Nomine the
t.erminiH enalen\ oreil to Nitrroiinil
(iiitpoKt trenelien, hut desisted under
heavy (Ire of the l-'renoli.
RAHRQADS PROTEST
AGIST TAX BURDEN
Deny That They .Are Underassessed
in Proportion to Other
Property.
(t>ir.STIO\ MOOltK'S FICPHKS
Kleetrie Lines Tell of Losses Through
.Jitney Competition?Committee to
Take I'p Merchants* License Tax
I til! To-.Night.
In solid phalanx, lawyers represent-!
I ing Virginia's most important railroads ;
appeared before the Senate Pittance 1
Committee last nicht. to protest against
.the increase of three-eighths of 1 per >
, cent on gross transportation receipts '
; proposed in the hill offered by Senator 1
j Addison, anil approved by the .State!
i Auditor of Public Accounts and other j
i tax authorities for the purpose of i
I securing to the Common wealth a pur- j
tion of the additional revenue that in
. needed to avert the impending $1,000,- j
1 i?00 deficit of 101 7.
With one accord th?*y attached the
! allegation Inferred from the Auditor's
report to the State Advisory Hoard on
Taxation that the railroads of YlrgP it?.
are not bearing their full share of the
| tax burden, and in particular the statc
> men I of Auditor Moore that, while the
reassessment of real estate in the Com
monwealth has shown an increase in
I value of IT per c.Mit, there has not
i been a t otrtsponoipg itu-rea.se in the
| revenue Cor State purposes from public
? service corporations.
? nr.MKS !t All.Id) \ IIS OWN
o.m:-i;i?;htii or vai.i ics
Alton ey K, lUniiolph Williams, rep
j resenting the Seaboard Air lane Com
| pany, produced the Auditor's ligures
to show that the railroad companies
; are credited v. tth owning one-eighth of
' the total value of all taxable property
| in the Stf.tc of Virginia- a proposition
which, he said. was inherently pre
| posterous. The railroads operating in
| Virginia, he said, according to the
j Auditor's last report, pay approximate
ly one-lifth of the total amount of taxes
; collected by tlio State front all as
? sessed property. f
lnilegate I teed. of N'orfollt, single
! handed, defended the proposal to in
crease the franchise ta\ of puhlie ser
vice corporations. Mr. Ke.d compared
? the taxes paid l?y railroads with the
! taxes paid by real estate, l?:tnk slock
and other classes of prope rty, drawing
from (he comparison the conclusion
! thai railroad property in Virginia is
I $30,00'' ''00 undervahied, anil is paying
| an average lux e<|tial to Iper cent
! of its net income, as compared with an
average tax equal to 17 |>er cent of
net income that, is paid by real estate.
r.i.r.cTHic it a 11.no % dn tki.i.
OV ,IIT.\K\ t OMIM'.TITIOX
j tSom-ral Attorney A It. Gutgon, of (he
\ iit;iiihl Itailway and Power Company,
I representing also 'he associated elec
tric railway companies of the State at
, large, and s Cordon f'uiuming. of
J Newport News, representing the New
I port News and Old Point Comfort Kb-c
? trie Railway Company, drew a sharp
distinction bet ween the properties they
i represent and the steam railroad com
panies. (f? show that an increase of
I the State franchise tax of electric rail
; way corporations could not be Justified
i evcti if such a course were determined
: upon with regard to the steam rail
I roads.
j The electric railway companies, they
(pointed out, have onerous burdens to
j bear in the way of franchise ohliua
i tionn requiring strei t paving, cleaning
anil sprinkling, municipal taxes on
j gross earnings, and an unbending rate
i of fare which, under no circumstances,
I can be increased 'ill of them con
tributing to a gross tax rati- far in
'excess of rate paid by any steam rail
j road.
"And <>n top nf this." said .Mr. liuigoti.
j "there has come in the past year the
{competition of the jitney bus which
| takes from Ihe electric railroads in the
| larger cities a large portion of the only
I rafllc that is profitable. This it doe-j
without being' obliged lo take out a
franchise ?,:? to bear any of the bur
dens I have j-.ist recited.
.IITM-IY IS r\lt KltOM .IOKI-:
, TO It V 11. It OA 11 tOtli'WIMS
j . "T!ie .iiiney may in- a joke to some
of you, but It i?t far from being a joke
to lite street railway companies. This
compel i lion, u mlepcttdable, pract leal I y
J unregulated and unrestrictetl. ami vir
I tually untaxed except for the nominal
j automobile licen.-'.t required, has cost
I tin- company 1 teprnsent as much as
j $.'>00 a day. It is a problem to which
(the State may well direct its attention."
j M'\ Camming joined Mr. Culgon in
| his summing up of the electric rail
(Continued on Tenth Page.)
French Are Forced to Yield
When Their Trenches
Are Leveled.
ARTILLERY BATTLE
CONTINUES UNABATED
j
Desperate Fighting for This Po
sition in Progress for
Two Days.
SFVFXTFKN Fir; ins IX AIR
I'riiish Mak?* This Ofltcinl Repovt of
Activity Al??njj I.inos in
Flanders.
[Special Cable t?? The Times- Dispatch. 1
LONDON*, February 14.?With offen
sives already under way In Champngmt
and Artois, 1)10 Germans have begun
a. third aggressive movement of large
proportions in upper AIs.Icp.
lloro, according lo the Paris com
>uuni?|uo to-night, the French wore
forced to givo way when the trenches
they had occupied east of Seppois
were leveled by the Intensity of the
German artillery tiro. The fighting for
the position had boon in progress for
two days.
The Herlin report gives the width
of the conquered section as wards.
The artillery battle continues without
oessation.
A trench section 700 yards wide was
raptured by the fJormans northwest
of Tahure. in Champagne, according to
the Rctlln statement. More than r;ort
j French prisoners were taken and t>vo
! machine puns captured. Violent artil
lery actions continue near Tahure.
I Massiges and Navarln. No French in
fantry actions were undertaken.
I f;i:ioiA.\x >iI'iri' with
IllSASTKIt IV AltTOIS
[ In Artois the German movement met
| with disaster. South of Fri.se. below
the Soiiime, ltie Hermans made an at
i tctnpt to surround tin* French outpost
! trenches. Tiie engagement developed
j into a battle of proportions, and the
j offensive advantage soon swung to ?hc
j side of tiie French. The French swept
I over tin* German works, capturing a
section of trench, and later a German
counterattack was broken up by the
French artillery tire. One German
company was surrounded and deci
mate. 1. Move than 100 German pri.i
| one is were taken and several machine
guns captured. German prisoners
1 stated that tiie Get man losses were
considerable.
: I)F.I?OT (IF JllMTIONS
IN IIKl.CIt.M III.OW.V I P
The eominutiiinie from Paris to-night
j says;
"In Helgium our artillery blew up a
(depot of munitions north of L?oe:flnghe.
j "North of Soissons the German in
j fan try, after a spirited bombardment
yesterday evening, attempted to de
i bouch by the road from Terny and
j the right bank of the Aisne, btit was
| stopped short by our barrier and In
, fentry fire, (in the Vauclerc Plateau
our artillery shelled a salient of tlio
! German line with good effect.
"In Champagne there were exceed*
i ingi.v spirited artillery actions in the
j regions of Tahure, Masslges and
> Navarln. but no infantry attacks were
j undertaken.
| "In upper Alsace, cast of Seppois,
j tlie Germans carried out an intense
j bombardment of tho advanced trenches
i which we had retaken from them dur
: Ing the night. We evacuated those om
! placements in this region, which had
I been completely wrecked. Enemy re
j enforcements, trying- to advanvo by
i email groups coming from Niederlarg,
I were taken under our barrier fire."
Belgian olflclal:
"Our batteries dispersed a German
I convoy on the Dixmude-Kcyem road.'*
i si:vk\tf.i:\ .\nt fk;iits
iiF.i?onTi-:n iiv r.iiTTisii
Seventeen fights in tho air is tho
; record of Sunday reported officially by
j the British along their lines in
Flanders, in addition, there has been
; great activity south of La Ilassec Canal,
where the Germans exploded seven
mines. Heavy bombardments and an
infantry attack in that section also
! is reported, the Germans succeeding
in entering a P.ritish trench. Tnoy
were driven out almost immediately.
In Albania, the Arzon River, which
runs westward across Central Albania
and empties into the Pay of Durazzo,
has been reached by tin* Austro-llun
rarian vanguards. according to VI erf i
The Pulgariain; have occupied IM Has
san. .in important town in Central
A Iba nia.
( There have been no important events
j on the eastern front, bu*. the Russians
| in the Caucasus have occupied one of
j t!??> IJrr.e.runi forts ami have taken
I large numbers of Turkish prison rs,
j Several Turkish batteries on th.* Treb
, Izond <*oiiiit of the Plack sea have
i been silenced b> the Russian war
! ships.
King Ft rdiniitid of Rulgnrln, Vienna
reports, has arrived there to vi*it Km
? peror Francis Joseph. This would seem
; to set at naught recent unofficial r<*.
i por ts that Hulgaria had asked tho en
1 tcntc allies f .t .s paratc peace.
P.KFOHTS TO \I?V\\? i:
PARIS. Fi-bruarv 11.?French fott?s
j have exploded a mine on the road le
i tween Neuville and La Folie, accord
ling to announcement made by the W/.r
I Otllco this afternoon.
I In Champagne a German attack to
i the cast of Somme-Py was met by the
j explosion of three French mines. T!io
j German efforts to advance were
checked, but. in spite of serious losses,
j they maintained themselves In the post
lions occupied by them.
Tho text follows:
"In the Artols district we hav* caused
