J
. 3
,?
x' 51 WEATHER
j i
NEW YORK CITY
week ending Feb. 9
" 25.87.
Arizona Fair
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL 18. NO. 224.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 15, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
1
7
J
T
1
X
-.
4
3t
f
.'I
v
.J
.4
-
- w
A
'J
Jt
,
.1"
" i
- i
i
1
2
ANARCHISTS!
AT BOTTO
Country Wide Search for Chef
of Chicago University Club
Uncovers Signs of Gigantic
Anarchistic Plan.
ORGANIZATION IS
GREAT IN rrs SCOPE
Widow of Assassin of King;
Humbert Thought Mixed i
Up in the Affair. Bomb
Plots Traced to Clan. t
CHICAGO, Feb. 14. The wide
spread search for Jean Croners has
developed the eistance of a gang of
fifteen anarchists whose grudge lays
principally against the Church. The
names of most have been secured.
Letters found on Frank Allegrini are
said to disclose the plot, extending to
Rome, to destroy the churches and
church property of all creeds.
The headquarters of the society are
In Rome. In the United States public
buildings were to receive the atten
tion of the anarchists. It is believed
by police authorities the attempt to,
wreck St. Patrick's Roman Catholic
Cathedral in New York several months
ago was a part of the plot.'
Letters taken from Allegrini and
found in his room were written in
1913. ' Most were without signatures.
One was from Chicago addressed to j
"Dear Allegrini". Another was dated :
"Salida, Colorado." and addressed to;
"Dear Frank."
The first letter goes Into details of
bomb invention hv the writpr. "This"!
says the letter, "will be a fine thing
to throw among a lot -of religious i
people when they go out, dressed in j
their best clothes, ,on the boulevards j
to talk the sermon over."
Most of the letters were not made !
public. Maps were also found which
show evidence the plotters had de-!
- . i r i " t i.. t '
coke Building, in Chicago.
WOMAN IN MESS.
CHICAGO, Feb. 14. The country
wide search for Jean Crones, assistant
chef of the University Club, and the
suspected poisoner of a hundred
guests at the dinner for Archbishop
Mundelein. continued. Letters found
n John Allegrini, a friend of Crones,
connected Mrs. Sophie Brescl, the
widow of Count Brescl, 'who in 1900
assassinated King Humbert, of Italy.
Careful investigation by the police j
Brasci disclosed
of the affairs Mrs.
the fact that
with- Crones.
she is not connected
WILLARD MAY POSTPONE '
CHICAGO. Feb. 14.- Jess Willard
may have to postpone his fight with
Moran because of a big cold .which
has Fettled in bis throat, causing in
ability to train.
' HUNGARIAN ACTRESS SHOT
CLEVELAND. Feb. 14. Sari Petrass
the famous Hungarian actress, noted
a b I
OF POISOH
PLOT
for her beauty, was shot as a British ; Canal Zone and now publisher of a
spy In Budha Pest, according to word welv paper in Omaha, has suggest
recelved here by Hungarians. The'ed ,0 Bryan who. is in Florida, a joint
mevire sxys she was tried by court 'debute before Nebraska voters on the
martial and convicted of getting mili-j-UP8tion of Preparedness. Metcalf was
tary secrets from Austro Hungarian i a'focipted closely with Bryan for
officers and sendin gthem to England. I ve9rs ln Political work. He says the:
I most Important duty pressing the Am-
ORDERED SHOT
DOUGLAS. Feb. 14. Carlo Loaiza.
an attorney in Sonora, has-been ar
rested in Mostezuma and sentenced to
be shot on the charge of plotting a
gainst the de facto government. Loni-
zia left here a week ago,
He was
u jiuic'.t,jii u j nuauM Ulll-
cials in Sonora. Manuel Figueroa who
was taken from the train a short dis-
tance south of the border and has been
shot charged with inciting mutiny.
COLD WAVE KILLS '
YORK. Feb. 14 Eight
NEW
per-
sons died here as the result of a cold the Virginia coast causing the Ameri
wave which sent the mercury down tocan steamer Standard, formerly a Ger
two degrees above zero. The eold',an tanker, to run within American
wave was followed by a two days' (waters. Two members of the crew of
snowstorm. It is predicted the tem- j thP Standard were Germans.
perature will relax by morning.
BRIAND IN PARIS.
PARIS, Feb. 14. Premier
returned from Italy where
Briand
he had
Teen on an important mission. It is
said he brought back a satisfactory to the amputation of his right leR
Impression. He met with the political! above the knee. It was injured Frl
leaders upon his return. 'day.
BIG MEN OF INDIA
HELPING BRITISH
3 S. I
i
Agha Khaa (top) and Rajah of
Pudukota.
The Rajah of Pudukota, one of the
leading: princes of India, recently of-'
fered all his possessions to King
George for the war, and is now rais-
' ing a regiment of his subjects. Agh
j Khan, also an Indian prince, whose
i influence extends over 50,000,000
people, has offered his services in the
I war in any capacity. - i
I Houston Regarded as Most
f robable Successor to Gar
rison; Carter Harrison,
Harmon and Lane Probable.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 14. The Pres
ident indicated that his choice for
Secretary of War lay between Secret-,
ary Houston and other outside olH
cial circles. No nomination is prob
able for several days.
Carl V room an, assistant secretary
of agriculture, is mentioned as a pos-
! 8ible 8UCC8sr to Houston, should he
"c " oelTO"''- ulom
menttonea to succeed Garrison are
Carter Harrison, former major of Chi
cago, Judson Harmon, ex-governor of
0hio and Secretary Lane
The Presl-
dent has received a number of poli
tical endorsements but said his selec
tion would not be made on political
grounds.
CHALLENGES BRYAN
OMAHA, Feb, 14. Richard L Met-
calf, former governor of the Panama
erican people is that of providing ade
quate defense. . t ,
SENSATIONAL 8H00TING
MACON, Feb. 14. Rosa Lee Eugank
twenty- was shot and killed on a down
: town street by two pistol shots being
niru uutii m miiiou i uauiti is ml iuu
'speed. J. A. Branan was arrested and
charged with the crime,
!also was detained .
The driver
ALLIED CRUISERS NEAR
NEWPORT NEWS, Feb. 14. Two
Entente allied cruisers appeared off
IT GOT HIM.
MADISON. Feb. 14. Anxel Hen-
i drfekson, Who defied death a hundred
i times loonlnr the loon on skis while
a hundrcl feet In the air, submitted
NQ NOMINATION
nr prnnrnmv i
Ul ULUnLinill I
nr i n
i mi if mi
VIMS 13 FIRM SIN mi
FROM 001 ! I'LL Ml
AND OUT Mil !
: i
Messenger of the Rebel Leader
Arrives in EI Paso and De-
dares Villa is Concentrating
His Troops.
PrtWPFI I A "T"TfiM 17TTM
CIENTIFICOS POSSIBLE!
Alberto Garcia, 1 Arrested at
Douglas, baid to Have Mated
Villa Intended Malting An
other Sonora Campaign.
.EL PASO. Feb. 14 A messenger
who reached the border say Villa is
far from being discouraged. He has
summoned his followers to concen -
trate at Casas Grandes. It is stated
all tnwttitmafa ..! 1 1 ha nmtnMail IIIll
ail luiriht'ria "in Li- l"vi-f i. . . v.
the bandits exterminated. Villa in -
tends to show the I'nited States it
made a mistake in recognizing Carran -
ra. it is learnea tne messenger is
one of Villa's most trusted body-
guards who is taking a message to
Hipolito Villa, the brother of Fran -
cisco and who is now detained in
Cuba.
Rumor is current here that Villa
has effected a conciliation with thei
Mexicap Cientifico party. It has
agreed xo lurmsu muv ru -numi-u i "u 3 name aireauy lias oeen ptaceu
cavalrymen wita 1000 rounds of am-jon the primary ballot. Friends gen
munition each. The rumor has been erally have taken it for granted that
denied by Juan Creel, one of the ex-ihe would be a candidate if he became
patriated Cientificos living in El Paso. convinced there would be any popular
Hipolito Villa is soon to be brought demand. The definition of the Tresi
here to answer an indictment charg-; dent's attitude is in line with plans
ing conspiracy to wreck a railroad
train earning Carranza
through .American, territory.
MORE SENSATION
DOUGLAS. Feb. 14. Villa is plan-;
ning another Sonora campaign, ac-j
cording to statements attributed to ,
Alberto Garcia, the bandit leader ar-j
rested here Friday, by his friends!
who claimed to have talked to Garcia)
before his arrest. They claim Garcia;
told them he had been daily the com-i
munication with Villa and Jrame to;
Douglas -on business for Villa. I
Among other statements attributed!
to Garcia was that he received a let-1
ter from Villa which the latter wrote!
mines at ei Tigre should leave the
district If they valued their lives, j
Customs officials have taken charge j
of Garcia. He has been removed toj
Tucson for ' examination. Carranza i
Consul Lelevier stated an application
would bo made for extradiction for
Garcia to Mexico on the : charge ofjHouse Nal Committee continued its
murder
' '
VAOUIS FLEEING pared to begin drafting tne measures , ' , ' . ' . .., . .- k
TAUUia fi-ttinu. . . , ,.,,!,., ,K . 1 sible to arrive at any accurate estl-: report "has been confirmed by the
SAN FRANCISCO. Feb. 14.-Offlc!aI j that will propose to strengthen the ar-, In 8uch advanced countrie8 a8j ln ,t8 profound conviction that
reports received by Consul Negri in-;niy. Both will bep.n daily se,!Slons Brazil, some estimates reach as high the act has been one of the most bene
dicate progress In the Carran7a cam-jlhis week in an effort to hasten the i afJ eJghty ppr cpnt .. i ficla, pleccg of ieglsiatiim ever adopt-
paign against the Yaqnis. General, work urged by the President. I ,n T,pw pf t)e fact that ,n ,ost of by congress. Not only have its
Serrano, directing the operations in; Renr Admiral Grant told the House tlie sout1Prn republics large masses; fundamental principles been vindicat
the Yaqul district, reported that two Naval Committee he believed the pres-, f tnp population are Indians who liavej ed but In most details the working of
columns of troops had penetrated into nt type of Ameriran submarine scarcely emerged from barbarism the i the measure has been suciessfuL"
the Indian country anrt nan occnoiea
Los Aleodones and Tetacondite. later;the replacement with larger boats. He
advancing to points considered
have been general headouarters of the;
lYaouis. The Indians. h said, wore
j dislodged and forced to flee, ahandon-j
ine arms and ammunition. Tetenhonei
and telegraph communication v th!McKean revealed that much of the na-
Yaoui country Is said to have been
restored.
THE IBM
PHOENIX, Feb. 14. The danger of
a Navajo uprising in northeastern Ari-,
zona was averted by the exchange or
-'promises between the Indians and gov
jernment officials at a recent peace par- j
ley. according to United States Mar-1
shal Dillon.' who returned to Flagstaff
from Tuba.
The conference was held near Tuba.
The Indians had threatened an upris
ing because of the recent killing of
Taddy Tin, a Navajo, by the police.
The Indian was declared to have re
sisted arrest. Members of the tribrl
contended the shooting was not pro-
voked.
The officer were
arrested !
pending investigation
Dillon said:
WITH
HED
'Taddy Tin was accused of stealing Imen were removed unconscious. Twen
horses from the Hopis and also of re -ty-two are believed still undeiground.
fusing to send his children to school.'" A foreman is mihsing
President Formally Consents j
to Be Candidate to Succeed
i Self but Declares I Jnwillincr- !
! ness to Enter Any Contest
IflDrMfAMDAirM
NOW EXPECTED
j Action No Surprise to Friends ; j
Wilsons Mame Already on
Frimary Ballots of Several
States.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 14. The Pres-
ident gave his conseat foimally for
the first time to the use of his name
;as a presidential caudkiate at the
', coming election. At the same time
( dr.iilqrarl 1 n n a "nut iv..1. ...... 11 : . .
, v. u i liuhu n w a t 1 1 l i i . Uliniitiuj
, to entor any contest" for the reuoniin-
ation. The declaration a- made in ,'
. answer to a letter from the Ohio i
j secretary ot state wno .wrote that
candidates from Ohio to the national
conventions muat signify their choices
1 for president by Feb. 25 and that no I
'presidential candidate can be named)
in that connection without their cor.
I sent.
in several other staten where such!
requirements are not imposed Wil-J
. of his political associates and is ex-
Boldiers , pected to bring into the open a cani
jpaign being made In his favor .through
out ilie c-ountT.
'Senate Naval and Military;
Committees Working Hard
in Effort to Forge Ahead on
Preparedness Measures.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 14.
The
I ","r""! " llle na uypiupriaiiuus
: bill and the Military Committee i pre-
1 ......
;snouia oe ananunnea. nc suugesieu
ostated the German success was due to
large submersibles.
Captain Josiah Mckean, attached to
the office of the chirf of operations.)
was of the same opinion as Grant'
Ivy's Information in regard to German
submarines came from an American
jboy who served on a German submar
ine for many months but who return
ed to the United States.
"
CITED FOR CONTEMPT. i
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 14. Mayor
Rolph and three members or the board 1
of public work and Superintendent i
1 Cashin, of the Municipal Railway,!
I were cited to answer contempt charg-'j
' es Friday in the superior court in j
compliance with the order of the Cal-
j ifornia supreme court of February 9..
i holding the injunction granted last
j July, had been violated ever since by
the operation of two municipal car
' over the Market street tracks
. ! of the I'nited Railways.
SPEAKS AT HARVARD.
CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 14. Major Gen
eral Wood told the Harvard under
graduates he found the sentiment in
the South favorable to federalizing
the state militin. He urged them to
join the summer training camps.
BUTTE MINE FIRE
BUTTE. Feb. 14. Fire broke out
late tonight at teh Pennsylvania Mine1
Anconda Copper Company. Three
lout ilie count.
:
TO HASTEN WORK
ON DEFENSE
PROGRAM
ALL BUT ONE OF MADEROS ARE BANNED
FROM MEXICO BY GENERAL CARRANZA
i
bXT rltt fh .. '
. tij4,' l I ,
X - M &:A$hii
m .-?2A .Vr r if
I
l.i-il 10 right, lop: Francisco 1. Madero, Jr.. the martrred president, and
his brothers, Raoul and Carlos. Bottom. Alberto and Evaristo .Madero.
Despite the fact that the principles and policies which Carranza stands
for arc supposed to be the same as those that actuated Francisco I. Madero,
Ji., in his fight for the overthrow of the Diaz administration, all the mem
bers of the Madero family, with one exception, are prohibited from return
ing to Mexico. Carranza 's reason forsthis is that the Maderos favored
Villa when the break came between the two Constitutionalist chieftains.
ILLITERACY ISO AM Ell DM EMS
HIGH 19 LATIN
AMERICA
Commission on Education Say i Federal Reserve Commission,
Illiteracy Runs As High As ! in Report to Congress, Re
Eighty Per Cent in Some! ' commends 6 New Features
of South American Nations. : for the Institution.
PANAMA. Feb. 14. Illiteracy in!
Latin American countries reaches as! amendments to the federal reserve
high as eighty per cent of the popula-j ac, wpre reconuuendeu t0 congress to
tion in some instances and in no case ,
is less than forty per cent, according lie rePrt of tl,e federal r"
to the Report of the Commission on serve board for the zrst full year of
Education presented today to the con-1 operation of the new banking sys
gress on religious work In Latin Amerl-i tem.
ca which is ln session here. j "A year's experience la the operation
"fn few nations is illiteracy so pro-j of the new banking system.
! nounced," the report says. In some
I cnuntrips mwli nrt RViiuilnr it fa ininiiH.
i commission sees no possibility. of. any
material advance In education in. the I
j immediate future. The great need its
j points out is for some industrial or ag-
ncultural training.
At the same time the Commission
nn"s mere is me Keenest possiDie in-
?resi in me question or education in
practically every section of Latin A-
merica, and that any effort in that di-
rection is warmly welcomed. As an
example of this it instances the estab-
lishment of the notable systems of
' . . . 1 .1 .. V. 1 1 . 1 T.
PULvjcnoiut ua Biuwjtit Ui vcllimi lira-
zil, Argentina,' Chile and elsewhere
by the missionary churches of the
United States and Great Britain. In
British Guinea there are 17,000 pupils
In the parochial schools instituted by ;
the Church of England and the Wes-
leyan Evangelistical schools in Buenos;
Aires have 5,600 pupils enrolled and
receive a government subsidy while
nearly forty parochial schools have'
been established in Brazil. branch offices within the city or cnun-
The commission report sthat plans try in which they are located
are being worked out for the estab-j Permit advances to member banks
lishment of a union Christian college against the member hanks' secured
at Buenos Ayres which rity is describ-l p.omissory notes or against the p!edce:
ed as the Gibraltar or Latin-America j of United States government bond
from the viewpoint of missionary con- Authorize farm loans by federal te-i
finest. 'serve hanks within a radius of' ouej
The report concludes with an ur- hundred miles of place of business;
gent plea for the co-operation of all whether in their own or other districts,
the missionary churches in education- "It is believed" said the report. "Miiit
al work in the southern republics and j the enactment of these amendments
tlie raising of substantial funds In view will, beside enlarging th usefulness
of the enormous scope or the work. of the national bank, greatly strength-.
en the Federal Reserve art, and more
MURDER CASE TO JURY. I?,'" '
WINTERSET. Feb. 14.-Tbe ran: The board aDuounced ,ha, lt .icesj
of Mrs. Ida Meyer, charged with the not fonpld ,t can dirs,.t the business;
murder of her daughter in law, Mr.! operations of Federal Reserv. banks'
Etbel Clayton Meyer, will go to tha ln respect to foreign loans, but that J
Jury tomorrow. Ua functions is to oversee these baks.
FOildREe
SYSTEM
I
WASHINGTON, February 14. Six
"A year's experience in the operation
: of the federal reserve act." said the
1 Tne amendments recommenaea
would:
Permit National banks to subscribe
and hold stork in banks organized for
the special purpose of doing a banking
husiness In foreign countries.
Permit, with the approval of the
board, the Issue of Federal Reserve
notes to Federal Reserve banks either
against the deposit of commercial pa-
per or gold, provided that the gold so
deposited shall count as part of the
required reserve of the bunk.
T . J . 1. n ..... ...
.Jkiruu ilie ttui:c'iaiii.; pjdiciu iu itiv-
domestic trade s far as it relates to
documentary acceptances by shipping
documents or warehouse receipts cov-
ering readily marketable commdditixs
or against the pledge of roods a-M;(lly
:old
Permit National banks to establish
branch offices within the city or cnuii-
try In which they are located.
Permit National banks to establish
SUCCESS FOR
TEUTONS 01
XI
Germans Take an Additional
Half Mile of Trenches From
the Allies But Are Held in
Check Otherwise.
IMANY AIR BATTLES
STAGED IN FLANDERS
l
British Government Institutes
An Air Defense Department
to Cope with the Zeppelin
Raids in England.
j LONDON, Feb. 14. The infantry
. was engaged in hand to hand strug
gles with hand grenade fighting and
; mining operations, while the airmen
'duelled above the Jines along the west
; em front. At some points the big
'ciins have been roaring incessantly.
' The Germans followed their recent sue
'ce?ses in Champaigne by the capture
of an additional half mile of trenches
land the enemy began an infantry at
I tack north of Soissons but the French
! repulsed it.
i Tbe official War Department report!
i says' seventeen fights in the air was
! the record for Sunday in Flanders The
I Germans succeeded in entering the
'. Rritish trenches but were, driven out
almost immediately. The enemy is
i continuing a heavy artillery bombard
:"ent supplemented by infantry at
. tacks.
The gOTeriment decided to institute
,;in air defense department wita head
quarters at Whitehall. Field Marshal
Viscount French will be in charge.
i The ' Austro-Hungarian Vanguards
have reached the Arzen River in Al-
, bania. The Bulgarians occupied El-ba-sen.
an important town in Central
Albania. The Russians "occupied one
'of the Erzerum forts in the Caucasus,
taking a large number of prisoners.
PARIS OFFICIAL
I PARIS, Feb. 14. The official com
munications say: "Our artillery ex-'
Iplnded an enemy munitions plant
; north of Bossingns in Belgium. In-
tne artillery actions near Tahure.
Masxlees and Navarin but the infan
try did not attack. We evacuated thn
trencher in upper Alsace after terrible
-shelline by the enemy. On the plat
eaus of Vanclero our artillery effect
ively shelled the German lines."
FROM PETROGRAD
PETROGRAD. Feb. 14 Semi-official
statement of the War Department
says four Turkish batteries were si
lenced near Vitrah betweeti Capes Ta
ro and Noroisit. The Russians cap
tured a Turk'sh sailing ship with
crew of twenty-five and sank eight
supply ships.
TRAINS AS PRESENT
PARIS. Feb. 14. A hospital train or
thirteen cars was presented to thi)
French government by two wealthy
Americans. The train is fitted in the
most modern equipment. The cars
were decorated with American and
French fins. Benenth the Red Cross
insignia is painted "American Hospi
tal Train."
A plea was made in the report for tVe
entrance Into the system of cior"
state bunks and trust companies.
The board expressed regret that in
some states suit had been instituted
to test the reserve act provisions . hy
which it may grant fiduciary powers
to National banks, announced its , In
tention to have its counsel intervene
in these cases and said every effort
would be made to have the uestion
soon settled by the Supreme Court. It
is pointed out that or.ly 3 stste banks
have been admitted to this system and
that 84 others have come in by conver
sion into National banks.
The report declared that a condition
of remarkable ease was the outstand
ing feature fit the country's money
market during the year.
The discount policy of the board dur
ing tlie past year was declared to have
been proper under the circumstances,
hut it was pointed out that a" time
goes on there will be a disposition to
make these rates more nearly equal in
all parts of the country. The reserve
hanks have not been encouraged to
Indulge In such commercial hanking
operations as the law permits, the
hoard said, because thereby th dan
ger of inflatat ion might have heea in
creased and money rates further de
pressed. More active participation. In
such transactions by reserve biaks
may be expected in the future.
WESTERN
FRONT
