BBBBBFPBjBWM " ffffiyTTTBScTBBBBBIBIBTBI
HHP1 Cljc $opm mepmcim. pplrf- I
Ml 1111 .1.1... .... I l n . .. .,, ...III, . l
EIGHT PAQE8 LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH TUESDAY FEBRUARY 15 1916 " " S iH
. FOURTEENTH YEARi H
. DID NOT THREATEN TO
I BRING SUIT ON COUNTY
I ASSESSOR, SAYS BOARD
I Members of State Board of Equaliza-
I tion Make Clear Their Position. Give
I Instruction Alike on All Classes of
I Property. Do Not Single Out the
I Farmer as Some Believe. t
B For nearly two months past num-
B crons Blgncd articles have nppcared
B in tho Cacho county newspapers crlt-
fl lclslng tho stato board of cquallza-
B tlon for Its efforts to secure the as-
B sessment of property at iti full value.
B Wo havo no desire to attempt to nn-
I swer these articles In dotall, not to
B enter Into any newspaper controver-
B sy with Mr. Woodward, county as-
B sessor, Mr Cronqulst or anyone clso.
B However, wo feel that grave rnlsun-
B dcrstandlng3 aro being created In
B tho minds of tho taxpayers and that
B it Is our duty to make clear our po-
B sltlon.
B To. begin with, neither tho board,
B nr nny f 'ts mombers bas ovcr m"
B structed your county assessor to as-
B sess any land in Cache county at
B $25u nCr ncro. notwithstanding tho
B fact that it hns abundant proof that
B there are many tracts that sum per
B acre, neither has It, nor any of its
B members, threatened to suo tho ns
B sessor on his bond If ho falls to as-
H sess land at the figure named. Wo
IB have said to Mr. Woodward and to
rM other county assessors in tho state,
vB publicly and privately, that all prop
yl erty must be assessed at Its fair
B cash value as required by law; and,
B ' the Presence of Mr. Woodward
B 0Iul other gentlemen when the qucs
B tlon was asked at to what could ho
B dono with nn assessor (not Mr.
B Woodward, but any assessor) who
B refused to comply with tho law on
B tho subject under discussion, tho
B questioner was referred to sections
B 2555 and 255G 6f tho Compiled Laws
B of Utah, which aro as follows:
B " Section 2555. Tho assossor and
B his sureties are Uablo on his ofllclal
B bond for all taxes on property with
B lfi tho county which through his wll
B ful failure or neglect Is unassessed
B . or which ha8 been by him wilfully as
B sussed at less than Its cash value
B Section 255G. Tho county nttorncy
B must after tho assossor completes tho
H assessment book for tho- year corn
s' mence an action upon th'o. assessor's
B bond for all taxes lost from such
B wilful falluro or neglect."
B I'leaso note that thoso sections
H glo no authority whatever to thl3
board in tho premises. Othor sec
I tlons of law glvo us supervision of
H assessors when assessing and county
B boards of equalization when equal lz
B 'nE. Our only rccourso In tho event
I U. OF MONTANA
I AT WELLSVILLE
I Tuesday night tho Montana Unl-
H ersity basketball team will Play tho
I fast Wcllsvlllo Athletic Club at
WcUsvllle.. Tho Wellsvillo team have
PJ practically tho samo lineup that ro-
cently defeated the Box Elder High
I team and with such mon as Owen,
Maughan, and Jones the Wellsvillo
boys should show Conch Bonnlon's
.jl rnen a merry time and by playing tike
mB they did against Drigham may pos-
Tr slbly win, however Montana nlso has
I a very strongs team as t they have
been trimming- everything they hit
on their way to Utn.h and with their
superior knowledge of tho gamo and
I being under ono of tho best coaches
H la tho west, they will bo generally
looked upon as tho winner, Tho on
U tire population of Wollsville is bo
hind tho team and tho splendid spirit
tho fans show at tho games, win or
j loose i8 certainly a credit tq the
town, and for this reason they havo
been shown somo of the fastest teams
in tho stato and the southern part of
Idaho. Out of eleven games played
the Wellsvllle boyif havol'ost-W 3,
'Raich is a splendid record for a team
that an nssessor decides to tako tho
law Into his own hands and Ignore
our suggestions and recommendations
Is to ralso or lower the valuations
fixed by him. In doing so, however
tho change mado must apply to all
real estate of tho class under consid
eration, nil merchandise, all llvo
stock, or all of any othor class of
property within tho county that Is
not properly assessed as required by
law. Any order mado by thia hoard,
under theso conditions, must un
avoidably work a hardship upon Eomo
taxpayers and In addition couso
much cxponso and delay In tho com
pletion of tho tax rolls, hence our
soUdtudo for a correct initial as
sessment. We wish to say emphatically that
wo aro not making any war upon tho
farmers. Our instructions have ap
plied alike to all classes of 'proper
ty. Tho reason that farm lands
havo been so much under discussion
In this controversy is becauso of tho
fact that certain gentlemen In Cacho
county, owners of some of tho most
valuablo land In tho county, land that
has in tho past been assessed nt n
very small fraction of its v'aluo, havo
eomo to the conclusion that the 'as
sessment of all property ut actual
valuo would mean Increased taxes to
thorn, as compared with other tax
payers, began nn agitation against
tho enforcement of tho law. Tho
county commissioners, In order to
get tho matter squarely boforo tho
people, called a mass meeting of tax
payers on December 22 and invited
niombers of this board to ho present
and discuss tho situation. Tho meet
ing was hold, and tho county asses
sor, among others wns invited t o
speak. In the courso of his remarks
ho indicated that it wn8 his purposo
to assess tho property of tho county
on a basis that would yield tho samo
revenuo that had been produced in
tho past. At a subsequent meeting
of tho county commissioners and tho
ussesftor with tho members of tho
Htuto board of equalization, ho BtateJ
that in order to accomplish that ob
ject It would not bo necessary to
assess tho best land In tho county
nt moro than $100 per aero. Ho was
lemlnded that tho purpose of tho law
was tho assessment of tho property
(Continued on Pago Eight)
that has tackled as hard a team ns
Wollsvlllo has and been undor no
coaching nt all.
Hero's to the further success of
tho Wellsvillo Athletic Club. Tho
gamo will Btart at 8:30 and will bo
followed by a grand hall. BroBsard
will roferco tho game.
THATCHER COAL
YARD JO BE
ONISOUTH MAIN
Numerous improvements aro being
mado on South Main street between
First and Second South streots, not
only by tho O. L. & ,1. nallway
Company, but other business inter
osts are taking advantage of this
growing section of town and ro
building shops, coal yards, cto.
Moses Thatcher ono of tho olriost coal
dealors in Logan who handles thu
famous 'Peacock and Hock Springs
coals, is building yards In tho vicin
ity of the 0. L. & I. froigbt dopot
and expects to transfor his coal busl
neBfl to this location within tho next
thirty days. This bolng pje casot
all tho coal shipping business of Mr.
J. M. BLAIR
J. M. BLAIR
CONFIRMED BY
U. S. SENATE
J. M. Blair, who was confirmed by
tho Senato of the United States as
postmaster of Logan, last Friday af
ternoon is a Utah product having
first seen tho light of dny at Salt
Lako City In JSfil. His early occu
pations wero cnttlo raising, farming
and a salesman, but ho Is moro wide
ly known to Logan citizens as post
master, having served as postmaster
of Logan from 1893 to 1897 under
President Orovcr Cleveland. Natural
ly ho ts delighted to bo in tho class
of tho "eomo backB," and when wo
reflect that it is "some dolns" to bo
ablo to "come back" after a respite
of twenty years, It cannot bo denied
hat Mr. Blair is In n class by him
solf. When asked ns to whal policy
ho would pursuo tho new postmaster
smiled and said: "Just say for mo
that I nm delighted with tho un
swerving loyalty of my many friends,
and appreciate their good work be
yond measuro. That I proposo to bo
postmaster of Logan City, and will
know no party, cllquo or creed, but
will treat all allko, and dovoto my
time and efforts to conduct an up to
date olllcicnt ofllco. I will always bo
found ready and willing to confer
with any and all citizens on 'mattors
pertaining to tho best Hercsts of tho
service"
When asked as to what changes ho
proposed to.mako Mr. Blair said:
"Of courso it naturally follows that
thero will bo changes and I do not
denv that I havo somo changes In
mind, but nm not prepared to an
nounco them at present. After 1
tako possession of tho ofllco I will
work along rcasonablo lines, making
tho changes at such limes as they
appear opportune"
Mr. Blair will In nil probability ns
sumo tho duties of tho ofllco on tho
first of March.
Thatcher will bo mado over tho elec
tric lino, making connections t Or
den with tho D. & It. G. Ttnltroad
Company. Tho yards at tho O. S.
L. station will therefore bo abandon
ed. This gives a moro central location
for transferring coal to tho various
parts of town. Tho haul therefore
will not bo as great as heretofore.
It puts Mr. Thatcher's yards within
a block and a half from tho contor
of tho business district, whereas bo
fore ho was about six blocks away.
JOS. RICHARD
SON DIED FRIDAY
AT SMITHFIELD
. . .
Smlthfleld, Feb. 13. Joseph Rich
ardson, father of Mayor Josoph J
Illchardson of this city, died hero on
Friday evening, February 11, after
an illness of nlno weeks. Ho was
84 years old, having been born in
England, November 8, 1831, His par
ents wero among tho flrat to Join the
church in England and carao to Amer
ica with tho first company of saints
to loavo England. Tho company wero
eight weeks crossing tho ocean and
landed nt New York. When eight
J (Contlnned'ora' Face '
MRS. ANDERSON
j BURIED SUNDAY
Funeral Services Held In the Third
jWard Meeting House Large
' Turnout of Friends
rs. Andrew Anderson of the
Thl d ward vns burled on Sunday
foil iwlng funeral services held in
tho ward meeting house at 2 o'clock.
Tho chapel was filled to overflowing
with sympathizing friends hnd ro'n
llvok. TJio services wero presided over
and conducted by Bishop William Ev
ans Tho opening song by tho choir
was Sister Thou Wnst Mild and
Lov ily. Prayer was offered by Eldor
prei erlck Scholes. Tho choir further
sang, Loved Ones Aro Calling For
Mo.,
Tho first speaker was Eldor M.
Mourltscii who had been a life long
acquaintance of deceased. Ho spoko
many words of consolation to tho
borenved family, also' paid high trlb
to tjio departed sister. Elder Sorcn
son was tho next speaker. He, like
E'dor Mouritscn spoko of tho splen
did character and noble llfo which
Sister Anderson had lived, nnd ex
horted nil thoso present to so llvo
that when our work on earth la fin
ished wo shall bo worthy of tho re
ward which tho departed one has
earned. Also stated that It was bet
ter to go to tho houso of mourning
than" to tho houso of feasting, as It
brought us nearer to tho Lord.
A quartet entitled God Is Calling,
wns rendered by Jacpb Gcssell and
company.
Elder N. P. Nielsen who wns tho
noxt speaker Bpoko irnny words of
cons'olatlon and encourngement to tho
bereaved ones, nnd urged all to try
and emulate tho oxamplo which tho
departed Bister has set for them. El
der Unsmussen of southern Utah, a
brother-in-law of tho family then
spoke of tho sterling worth of Sister
Andofoon, and that tho llfo that sho
had lived was worthy of Imitation
for us all. Ho explained tho differ
ence between tho belief of tho Lattor
Day Saint and that of other denomin
ations regarding tho term death.
Tho choir rendered very beautiful
ly tho solcctlon, Best Sweetly Best,
followed by R short talk by Eldor
John T. Quuylo, with closing re
marks by Bishop William EvanB.
Tho services wero concluded by
tho choir singing, Glory For Mo.
Ilcnoillctlon was pronounced by John
E. Everton.
Thero wns an nbundanco of floral
contributions. Numerous vehicles
wero provided to convoy sympathis
ers to tho last resting placo of this
good sister at tho city cemetery.
TAKING EARLY
PRECAUTIONS
FOR PROTECTION
Early precautions aro being taken
by interested partlos In tho mattor
of protecting Logan Islnnd property
from danger of high waters over
flowing tho Logan river banks and
flooding tho district In tho lower
parts of tho city. Looking to thlB
end, a meeting wns hold In tho Lo
gan Seventh ward meeting houso on
Friday night at which time property
owners together with Mayor Thatch
or, Commissioner Larson and Engi
neer Hay Bullen representing Logan
City and Georgo W. 8kIdmoro, M.
S. Eccles and Olof Nelson represent
ing tho Commercial Club, met to dls
cuss plans for confining the early
spring Hood wators to their proper
channel. H. A. Pcderson was chatr
man of tho meeting.
Engineer Bullen who has mado
somo study along tho linos of tem
porary protection suggested that
where sharp turns maintain In tho
rlvor, tho high waters havo a ten
dency to chango tho rivers natural
channel, but at a very small cost,
stone cribs could be installed In euch
a manner that tho old channol would
bo maintained nnd further scoured
out by the high waters. Mr. Bullon
suggested this method of protection
from tho fact that thero is a good
deal of tlmo available along tho .south
side of the river, and rock could bo
obtained ut almost any point in tho
rlvor bed, thereby making the struc
tures extremely cheap, Furthermore
Continue .ot Pag, !&ar),
POSTMASTER BLAIR IS I
RECOGNIZEO LEADER OF : I
CACHE CO. DEMOCRACY I
With tho nppolntincnt nnd confirm
ation of Mr. J. M. Blair, as Tost
innster of Logan City, n real bnttVo
is nnded. A battle that has dono
more to stir up tho feelings, hates
and resentments of tho Democracy
of Logan City and Cacho County,
than nny other that has held tho
boards Blnco tho dawn of Democracy.
When tho nntloi. wont Democratic
and the Logan postofflce becanio a
plum for tho Democracy It was ex
pected on nil sides that It would bo
plucked long ago. It was also ex
pected that somo young son of Dem
ocracy, strong and vigorous, who had
not been In tho limelight of previous
battles, would struggle for tho prize,
and perhaps It wns so, but If such
was tho caBO, none such received
oven so much as a respectable hear
ing, for tho old timers, nnd senrred
vetorans of many battles havo holfl
tho boards alono nnd tho sign "No
joung men need apply" has been con
stantly In evidence. Early In tho
gamo tho wily warriors of tho Dem
ocratic party selected Hon. A. O.
Harbor, former Stato Sonntor, and J.
M. Blair for the contest. For Sena
tor Barber, County Chairman Goorgo
ltomnoy, former County Chairman
William Edwards, Georgo W. Skid
moro, D. H. ThomaH nnd a host of
other stalwarts of tho democracy, of
moro or less magnltudo, worked
night and day, whllo on tho other
hand tho skilful manipulating of Mc
Blair nnd his loynl followers scored
victory after victory until tho battlo
was decisively won. Tho Barber
forces wore apparently stunned, thoy
apparently did not know how to piny
tho gamo, thoy acted, and worked,
nnd wrote, nnd wired, and talked Hko
a lot of amateurs that had forgotten
their partB, and were scurrying
around for a prompter. Whllo in this
dilemma "tho big chief," tho. "old
warhorso," tho former postmaster,
Mr. J. M. Blair, played them right
oft tho boards, received tho prlzo and
qualilled ns tho only real, llvo lcador
of tho Democracy of Cacho county.
Ho Bhowcd them that ho could
"eomo back," that It was all right for
them to servo In tho ranks, but thoy
must not partako of tho "plo," ior,
says ho, "tho plo is for mo."
Tho Republican has been asked a
number of times why It has stood for
Mr. Blair. In reply wo say that no
ono can point to a single paragraph
COACH BENNION
AND BASKETEERS
HERE TOMORROW
Tomorrow night at tho Brlgham
Young Collego gymnasium there will
bo played ono of tho most interest
ing games of tho season. Coach Fred
Bennlon formerly of tho University
of Utah, will bring his team of cham
pions from tho Agricultural Collogo
of Montuna. With his teams Bennlon
has been ablo to hold tho champion
ship of Montana for Bovoral years.
Boys on tho team ho brings this
year aro all old players. Thoy nro
tho boys that tho Brlgham Young
College lost its gamo to last year
lost the gamo, but by a very small
margin.
Tho Montana boys are big husky
fellows who know how to put up a
rough speedy fight.
Coach Jenson's boys, too, know
that kind of gamo. Whllo feeling
strong hopo and dogged dotormlnn
tlon to win tho B. Y. 0. playors aro
not buoyed up with tho falso hopes
of an eaBy victory. Thoy expect to
havoto fight and aro willing to flght
hard. Tho first year class who
wont down to dofeat in tho gamo
with tho Wellsvillo boys on Saturday
night, aro determined to turn their
dofent into a victory by tho srecial
efforts, enthusiasm and loyalty that
thoy can give tho B. Y. 0. team on
Wednesday night. .
Tho Crimson girls aro going to col
ebrato in honor of St. Valentino on
Thursday noxt. Murdocks is to bo
tho "stamping ground."
wherein we havo stood for .Mr. Blair '.
or Mr. Barber, or any other Domo- H
crat. Tho facts aro wo conceded H
early In tho game that tho olllco be- B
longed to n Domocrnt, and not bolng i B
Democrats, It was nouo of our bust- B
ncss. Wo hid our Innings a fow
years ago when wo went on record L !
for Postmaster Josoph Odoll. Wo ''
were a party to his appointment, j B
stood for him then, havo stood tor
him all along, and wo now point with B
prldo to tho record ho has mndo. Wo B
congrntulato him, nlso ourselves, for , H
wo bcllovo that were tho matter sub- H B
mlttcd to a voto of the people, in j ' B
tho good old democratic wny (theo- ' J
retlcally speaking, wo mean) that ' !, iB
Postmaster Joseph Odcll would out- ! ' B
distance nil comers at tho poIIb. t 1 B
When thu national ndmlnlstdatlon V B
changed It was up to tho democracy 1 B
to nnmo n man upon whoso record i ( B
tho democracy must Btand. Mr. f 1 B
Dlnlr's ability has been nssatlcd. It ' H
Is up to tho democracy tn defend It j ,1 ( H
ond Is no concern of ours. It dooa , " B
appear, howover, that if ho was quail- u s B
fled to bo postmaster twenty yearn ' ' ' B
ago, and Is now tho only man In tho i ' H
democratic party In Logan City liav- H
Ing tho capacity, shrewdness, and''. H
foresight to Bwing tho deal, that lib" "i H
ought to bo fairly well qualified for .. H
tho ofllco. Hon A. O. Barber lsrqual- 'j
lfled for such an ofllco. Everybody , l')
concedes that. Surely It tnkes .some M -'l
capacity to- beat Senator Barber, and ' I'llB
Mr. Blair did It. Howover, this is I ;. , !B
a matter that old father tlmo will ' ' fH
tako caro of. I ' ' IB
Wo did feel somewhat resentful, i', rB
and Btlll-do-attUiwUomptB-inado . - ;' sB
to bellttlo his character, and c'spq,- .
dally tho reported attempt to make '" ' ?
of him a dishonest man. We resent i'i "'
sucli things against our citizens nnd JLj ;H
should llko to bco tho porpotrutors' 1M ,M
of all such dnstardly attacks In ought F t M
to justice Wo havo known J, M. J j i!
Blair for twenty years, and wo think ,1, , H
ho 1b thoroughly honest, and an all, i , , i
lounil, good, rcllnblo citizen. Of ,. ! ,J
courso In Mr. Blnlr's case this may 4 i jJ
bo n matter of "chickens coming to t'i ( f H
roost," In a measuro nt least. Soon lj -j
after tho administration changed " j j I H
dnstardly nttack was mado on Post- '' I'l 1
master Odoll.' Somo affidavits wero jj I H
filed and an Investigation was held, l' i
resulting as it could only result, In ti ! ill
(Continued on Pago Eight) ft
YELLOWSTONE II
HIGHWAY BEING 11
ESTABLISHED I
Tho National Park Highway com- . I j! W H
lnllteo of the Commercial Club mot llUV'B
yestorday to outllno a plan to estab- , ft j S .H
llsh tho routo from Salt Lnko City $ M
to tho YollowBtono Park Hlghwny. It ( ,j M
was the concensus of opinion that H iH
tho only way to establish this high- (f j
way In tho minds of the tourists and w I j :H
public is to advertlso continually and ftwl '
say that this is tho routo and tho jl'i
best out of tho stato to tho park and r M,
sco that It Is mado tho best. ft V'H
Letters will bo sent to tho Sail d g .
Lako, Wober, and Brlgham City Com- rl j H
morclai Clubs asking thorn to support $ j II
us in this movement by passing rcso- jH, j jl.H
lutlons and tolling all tourists and t! , II
peoplo who travoi to tho park to go 'A f
by way of Cacho Valloy. Largo sign 'f! ' 1 1
boards directing tho tourists to tho n ' B
park by way of Cacho Valley will bo JCI
placed in Brlgham City. Somo will U i iH
also bo placed at McCammon direct. - if H
Ing tho poopo on tholr way to Salt jf'ltl
Lako City and othor points to go thru jij ' l
Cacho Valloy. An ofllclal log will bo V j l
gotten out and placed in all tho ho- H IbH
tela and garages in Salt Lako City, j j jKfl
Ogdon, Brlgham City, Downoy, Mo )'-' iPB
Caramon, Pocatello, Blackfoot, Idaho Vl tjSB
Falls, noxburg, St. Anthony, and m wl
Ashton.- A log will also bo mailed I ffl
to overy nutomobllo ownor In Utah.- - $1 II
All tho towns along tho routo from , u
Preston on tho north to Wellsvillo obi M fll
tho south will ' bo asked to appoint m 91
committees . to work with the Com- T SI
t- ' J Vfl
Coatjaue p m? ). , Mlflfl
