*^F
WWipSf 5Kr
nnssr^ ,.v
AGENCY ITEMS.
Supt. Dickens who departed for Washing
ton on January 29th, has not yet returned.
A party of Red Lakers consisting of N.
J. Head, P. H. Beau lieu, Wm. Sayers, Pay
she-ke-zhig and Still Day departed for
Washington on the 7th inst. Mr. John G.
Morrison, President of the Geriferal Council
of the Chippewas of Minnesota, and also *i
resident of Red Lake accompanied the party.
Nay-gah-bow died of pneumonia on the
10th, inst., at the Red Lake Hospital. He
was a brother of Mrs. Alexeance Jourdain
who recently died of the same disease. De
cedent was unmarried and leaves surviving
a brother, Ke-me-wun, and a half sister,
Mrs. Chas. Fineday.
Joseph Roberts was a recent visitor in
Red Lake from his home near Sayersville.
Mr. Roberts had brought one of his children
in to enroll in St. Mary's Mission School
but on account of the epidemic of measles
in that school was compelled to delay the
enrollment of his child for the present.
For the third time within the past thirty
c(ays the Grim Reaper has visited the house
hold of Hole-in-day, one of the Agency In
dian Police, he having lost his wife on Jan
uary 8th, and 4-year-old daughter, Jane, on
January 10th, both of whom died of pneu
monia, and on the 8th inst., his seven year
old daughter, Mary, a student at the Mis
sion School succumbed to- att*fc*R#^fe* *Jto^
measles.
Mr. Andrew Bergquist, conductor on the
Red Lake Line, was granted final citizen
ship papers before an examiner of the Fed
eral Immigration Bureau at Bemidji last
week. Mr. Bergquist, a native of Denmark,
ican.
The winter of 1915-1916 will no doubt
be long remembered in this locality for its
prolonged, unbroken cold, attended by
much snow. The depth of snow is so great
that sleighing is difficultand the end is
not yet.
James Anderson, or May-quom-e-wub,
and Wain-je-mahdub, who live down the
river near Neptune, were callers at the
Agency on business last Thursday.
Ish-ko-tay-o-tah-baun (Locomotive), also
known as John Smith, recently paid a visit
at Red Lake from near Inger, Minn., where
he has been working for the past six months
with one of the dredging, outfits engaged in
ditching work on lands
is now a full fledged, unhyphenated Amer- to him at Inger, Minn., sent his best regards
to all friends in Red Lake.
Mr. Alex Jourdain of the Northwest An
gle of the Reservation advises that a son was
Severa Re Lakswamp Indian are engaged in in Bemidji last Saturday eonsnlting^itk
logging for the agency sawmill. John John
son and Francis Gurneau have gone into
partnership and are logging near Sandy
River. Jacob Loud and Jacob Moose are
logging together southeast of Redby and Pe
waush is also logging in the same vicinity.
John G. Smith, who disappeared last fall
about the time his name was mentioned in
connection with rumors of certain misde
meanors having been committed on the res
ervation near the home of Mrs. Julia Clark,
returned to the reservation last week from
Gass Lake. The Indian Court, which has
net forgotten said rumors, will probably
Jkrid an inquiry in the matter in the near his grandson, Robert Gibbs, and wife (for-
bore. nierly Elizabeth Kay-bay-aus-ung) make
^Quite extensive operations in the cutting, their home with him.
RE LAK E NEWS
SUBSCRIBE FOR THE MEWS
VOLUME 4. RED LAKE, MINNESOTA, FEBRUARY 15, 1916. NUMBER 12
manufacture and sale of cedar posts and
poles are going on near Clearwater River.
Frank Carl recently settled the stumpage
charges on 1,000 posts and 275 poles which
he had cut in the dead and down cedar
swamp near Clearwater and sold in Gully,
on the Soo Line. Others are also engaged
in this work. It is reported that these In
dians co-operated in the work of dragging of
snow plow over the road from the Bridge
to Gully and a fine tote road is said to have
been the result. The farmers living off the
reservation on the meadows, not to be out
done in this respect by the Indians, soon
plowed out the road from Berner to Gon
vick, consequently traveling in that vicinity
is now less difficult than it is nearer the
Agency where the snow is now 30" deep
on the level.
Mr. W. L. Thomas and Israel Belgarde
have returned from the latter's homestead
north of Red Lakes in the Rapid River
Country. They were compelled to use snow
shoes on the return hike and were two days
covering about 18 miles of the return trip.
A license to marry was issued at the
Agency on the 12th to Kah-zhe-be-quay-
widower, aged 47, and Ay-quah-bun-oke,
widow, aged 30, both of Redby.
A post card written by N. J. Head from
Chicago on the 9th, states that the delega
tion enroute to Washington from here was
time being lost on account of bad weather
disarranging train schedules. Mr. Head
stated that all members of the party were
well on arrival at Chicago.
Ke-niew-e-ke-zhig, or Jack Clubs, in ac
knowledging receipt of a check forwarded
born to himself and wife on February 6.
The young man has been named Joseph.
The Puposky hotel was raided last week
by county officers, wiio seized a quantity
of liquor and also the bar fixtures which
were shipped to Bemidji. Several arrests
were made for conducting an unlicensed
drinking place. One of the principals in
this affair formerly conducted a saloon in
Bemidji before the enforcement of the 1855
Treaty. Verily, the way of the Lid Tilter
is hard.
Chief Special Officer Henry A. Larson of
the V. S. Liquor Suppression Service, was
Special Officer Brandt who is stationed at
Bemidji.
A second delegation of Red Lake Indians
to Washington, composed of Paym-way
way-be-nais, No-din and O .ke mah .wah je
waib, expects to start for the Capitol on the
14th.
Na-may-pock of Warroad, who was vis
ited recently by G. H. Btafrnwtee, of the
Agency office, is in very poer Aealth.A neat
four-room cottage has just keen completed
for his use and the "Chief," as he is called
by all acquaintances in Warroad, is now
very comfortably situated. Besides a sister,
WARNING*.
The introduction of intoxicating liquors
into this reservation or its sale to non
citizen Indians is forbidden by law under
a penalty of imprisonment for not less
than sixty days.
See Act of January 30, 1897 (29 State
L., S06.)
INDIANS' ACHIEVEMENTS.
"Lo the poor Indian, who's untutored mind
Sees (rod in the clouds and hears Him in
the Wind."
Who allotment no longer grows up into
weeds
Nor is leased to a white man for cheap
strings of beads.
For, lo! and behold, he is now up to date,
He farms his own land and his crops are
fiist rate.
No longer of work does he say, "I should
wrorry,"
It's "Get out of my way, I am in a great
hurry."
It may have been true that once on a time
He could not distinguish a cent from a dime.
What a change has been made in our copper
lined brother!
He now picks up dollars without any bother.
For quite a long time he was somewhat be
hind,
But now he's commenced to get into the
grind
And he's not a bit slow to accept a position
ambition.
You now see him working wherever you gOr-^
In Kansas, Nebraska or New Mexico.
While once he was backward and slow to
take hold
You'll now find him hustling and bustling
and bold.
So we'll have to revise the old reader and
history,
For Lo is no longer a joke nor a mystery,
But a man of red blood as well as of skin
Who has grabbed up the hoe and gone out
to win.
If you are one of those deluded, misin
formed and behind-the-times individuals
w^ho still persist in regarding the Indian as
a loafer, then read the following clippings
showing the intense activity of Indians in
all sections of the country and in widely
varied industries. We believe you will
then be ready to reconstruct your opinions
in regard to "Poor Lo."
'that Dewey Thunder, a Winnebago boy, won
third prize in a corn contest at Roslie, Neb.
Considering the fact that the town of Ros
lie is located off the reservation the boy
must have competed with white boys and
won a prize well up toward the top.
About two years ago the Sure Hatch In
cubator Co., of Clay Center, Neb., published
a catalogue showing scenes of several farms
where chickens were raised, and in one of
the pictures was Dewey, this same little boy,
helping his father raise chickens.
Out of the score of nations represented
in an automobile factory in Detroit it re
mained for an Indian, Joseph Gillman, a
Chippewa, whose home is in Minnesota, and
(Continued on Page 2)
kW
