THE BARKE DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX-NO. 284.
HAKUK, VKHMOXT, TUESDAY, FEHHUAUY U, 1910.
PKICK, OXK CENT.
LOST GROUND .
RE-CAPTURED
French Took Part of Cham
pagne Trenches Lost
on Feb. 13
GERMAN OFFENSIVE
IS BELITTLED
.Great Damage Is Reported
Done to French Fort
ress of Belfort
Paris, via London, Feb. 15. In the
Champagne district the French troops
have recaptured a portion of the ad-
vanced trenches occupied by the Germam
on the 13th of February, according to an
announcement by the French war office
this afternoon.
Interest in the active operations in the
JOuropean war continues to center in the
lighting along the western front, where
tho Germans recently have been driving
lieavily at the French lines in several
sectors, notably in Artois and Cham
pagne, with successes at various points
in these 'regions. It is announced semi
officially in Taris that despite the seem
ing great activity of the German at
tacks in question, they are really only
local actions without gains of signifi
cance, it is uociarea me rreiicii muiu
easily undertake similar actions but are
refraining from doing so because the re
sults are not worth the price that has
to be paid.
The German news source report great
damage to the French fortress of Bel
fort in the recent shelling by long-range
German guns.
Following the visit yesterday to Milan,
the Austrian aviators have raided Mon
ra, 10 miles northeast, one person being
killed and five being injured by bombs.
Heavy fighting in German East Afri
ca between German forces and Belgian
troops who invaded .he colony is report -"cd.
Both sides suffered heavy losses and
the results so far seem to be inconclusive.
CHALLENGES BRYAN.
Omaha PubKsher Wanta to Debate Pre
paredness. Omaha, Xeb., Feb. 15. Richard I
Mctealf, former governor of the Panama
canal sone, and now publisher of a week
ly paper in Omaha, yesterday tele
graphed William .1. Bryan at Miami,
Kin., suggesting a joint dclatte on the
question of preparedness before the
voters of Nebraska. It has been stated
in the press that Mr. Bryan intends to
deliver in Nebraska between March 30.
and the date of the state primaries
April IN, speeches in opposition to the
administration preparedness policy. Mr,
.Metcalt asked that- six joint debates be
arranged, one in each congressional dis
trict of the state during this time.
Mr. Met oh If has wen intimately as
sociated with Mr. Bryan tn Journalistic
and political work for 38 years. His
telegram says in purt:
I am among those Nebraska Demo
rats who believe that, the most impor
ant duty now pressing upon the Amer
ican people is that of providing our coun
try witli adequate national defense and
giving to the president, who is trying
o discharge that dutv, the support to
which he is entitled.
Vou have always advocated tho pres
entation oi both sides ot a public ques-
ion. I am therefore encouraged to be
lieve that you will accept my offer to
meet you in joint debate upon this question."
KING GEORGE'S
SPEECH READ
Monarch Did Not Appear at
the Reassembling of
Parliament
MANY TOPICS DISCUSSED
PUTS CONFIDENCE
IN ALLIES' CAUSE
To Secure Preparation for
"Unprovoked and Un
justifiable Outrage"
MELLEN HAS NO FACTS.
I-omlon, Feb. l.'i. Parliament re-as
sembled to-day. King George was ab
sent and bis speech was read. It said:
'"It hag been my duty to summon you
after a short recess to renew your de
liberations. Tho spirit of my allies and
my people, who are united in this con
flict by the ever-strengthening ties of
sympathy and understanding remains
steadfast in the resolve to secure repara
tion for the victims of an unprovoked
and unjustifiable ontrage and effectual
safeguards for all the nations against
the. aggression of power which takes
force for rieht and expediency for hon
or. With proud and grateful confidence I j
look to the eouraue, tenacity ana re
sources of my navy ancj army on whom
To Support Charge of Charles W.Barron
Against Brandeis.
Washington, 1. C, Feb. 15. Charles S.
Mellen. former president of the New Ha
ven railroad, to-day notified the Semite
committee which is investigating the
nomination of Louis C. Brandeis to tho
supreme court bench, that he had no j
. .i.. ..i 1. i ur !
"u "'"';"'"" "lp '" i " we depend worthily."
llurpnn of It.iulot, 4liu. llru i.1.ib Imlm.,1 I f J
to wreck the New Haven.
When the committee resumed its hear
ings to-day, 8. W. Winslow, president
of the I'nited Staset Machinery company,
and other representatives of that com
pany were ready to appear. Brandeis
was formerly connected with that com
pany and the committee sought testi
mony regarding charges of unethical con
duet on tho part of Brandeis to the effect
jtliat, after serving as Its attorney ami
director, he withdrew and later acted
as counsel for a group of manufacturers
in a trust suit against the company.
NO CHANGE AT KUT-EL-AMARA.
Beleaguered British Troops Are in Good
Condition.
London. Feb. 15. According to a Brit
ish official statement issued last night,
late advices have been received from the
commander of the troops in Mesopota
mia, Lieut.-Gen. Sir. Percy Lake, to the
effect that be has reports dated Sunday
from Gen. Aylmer, in command of the re
lieving force, and Gen. Tow,fishend, whose
troops are beleaguered in Kut-El-
ma ra . '
Gen. Aimer reports the situation un-
s' , j , re if J .t.
rnangea ana ijen. lotviisneiiu lepum mc
flight over Kut-EI-Amara of an aerp
plane, which dropped two bombs without
damage.
8o PER CENT. ILLITERATE
In Some Cases in Latin-American Repub
lies Never Less Than 40 Per Cent.
Panama, Feb. 15. Illiteracy in Latin
American countries reaches as high as 80
per cent, of the population in some in
stances and m no case is less than 40
per cent., according to the report of the
commission on education presented to
day to the congress on religious work in
Latin-America, which is in session hare.
"In few nations is illiteracy so pro
nounced," the rcmirt says. "In some
countries, such as Ecuador, it is impos
sible to arrive at any accurate estimate.
In such advanced countries as Brazil,
some estimates reach as high as 80 per
cent."
In view of the fact that in most of
the southern republics large masses of
the populations are Indians who have
scarcely enierired from barbarism, the
FLORAL HALL BURNED
AT SHELDON TO-DAY
There Are Indications That the Fire Was
of Incendiary Origin, Tracks in the
' Snow Leading to the
Building.
(Sheldon, Feb. 13. Floral hall at the
Franklin county association's fairgrounds
was destroyed by hrc early this morr.uig
the loss beinir estimated at fz.ooo, witi
insurance of $1,000. A considerable
quantity of material was stored in the
building. , including a track sprinkler
worth $350. The tire was discovered at
5 o'clock bv L. K. Willard.
Tracks were discovered in snow, indi
cating that the building had been lrok
en into, ami there were tracks about the
other buildings on the fairgrounds. The
fire started in the south end of floral iiall
anil the cause, of course, has not been
determined.
THREE DEATHS AT WATERBTJPV.
Howard Smith, 20, Peter Colby, 57, and
Mrs. Jessie Cameron, 92.
Waterlmry, Feb. 15. Howard Smith,
son of Mr. and Mrs. William Smith of
Stowp. died this morning after a brief
illness with pneumonia. The young man
was 27 'vears old last June and whs mar
ried seven years ago to Myrtie, daughter
of Mr. ami Mrs. Ceorge Grover of this
STRIKE VOTED AT NEW BEDFORD.
Textile Council Took Action Last Even
ing to Gain Demands,
New Bedford, Mass., Feb. 15. The
Textile Council at a meeting last night
voted to call a strike in all the mills of
tho city to force the demand of the un
ions for a 10 per cent advance in wages,
which has. been refused by the Cotton
Manufacturers' association, which grant
ed a 5 per cent increase.
The council is to name a date for the
. strike to begin at a later meeting. All
the textile unions of the city, with the
excpptiowof the spinners, had previously
voted to insist on a 10 per cent advance
and to support any action the Textile
Council saw fit totake. The spinners
will join with the other unions, as a vote
of two-thirds rtf the unions is binding on
all. About 35,000 operatives will be af
fected by a strike order. .
The manufacturers have steadfastly
refused to grant the demand for 10 per
cent, which they declare it is impossible
to give at the present time.
Besides voting for a general strike, the
Textile Council voted to call a strike
Wednesday morning of all the 1,200 op
eratives at the Gosnold mill, where a
strike of the slasher tenders has been in
progress. The slasher tenders have de
manded the reinstatement of eight men
.who recently struck for a 25 per cent ad-
vanee in wages for work on colored
goods.
When the other unions of the city
asked for a 10 per cent advance, the Cos
nold strikers dropped their demand for a
25 per cent increase and joined in the 10
per cent request. Their'request for re
instatement was refused y the mill
management, which agreed to take back
but one or possib.lv two of (hr strikers.
All the unions of the city have voted to
support the (,'oenold Strike.
nlti..A 11a ia a 1 1 r v i vttA liw hia wifn. ami
commission sees no possumny 01 any two )iule cllil(iren, his parents, and two
material advance in education m the 1111- j fcr( thprg nm, ft gistpri an, ,UpoM
mediate future. The great need, it then 1. f..i,. v....i ,.,
, . . 1 RIIU ,.lf,,l9. 1 , in. atinn,iiivii,a r i v.
points out, is for some
agricultural training.
At the same time the commission finds
that there ia the keenest possible inter
est in the question of education in prac
tically every section of Latin-Amerfca
and that any effort in that direction is
warmly welcomed. As an example of
this it instances the establishment of
j not yet completed.
Peter Colby, aged 57 years, died at the
Newcomb home at the Center last night
after being in poor health for some time.
Mr. Colby, who was the son of Daniel
and Electa (Smith) Colby had been em
ployed at the Newcomb place for a long
limo Tin loavoB rnn hrnilmr .Tumni f'ol-
notable systems of successful day schools j b wno Iives in t, AVps't Another
brother, 1 age Colby, died at his homo in
Montpelier a few months ago. The fu
neral will be held Thursday at the New-
in central Brazil, Argentina, Chile and
elsewhere by the missionary churches of
the I'nited States and Great Britain.
In British Guiana there are 17.000
pupils in the parochial schools instituted
by the Church of England and the Wes
leynn Methodists. Evangelistical schools
in Buenos Aires have 5,(SO0 pupils en
rolled and receive a governmental sub
sidy, while nearly 40 parochial schools
have been established in Brazil.
The commission reports that plans are
being worked out for the establishment
of a union Christian college at Buenos
Aires.- which city is described as "the
Gibraltar of Latin-America from the
viewpoint of missionary conquest.
The report concludes with an urgent
plea for the co-operation of all the mis
sionary churches in educational work
in the southern republics and the raising
of substantial funds in view of the enor
mous scope of the work.
comb home.
PROMISSORY NOTE FOR NAVY.
A 6-FOOT-ll BRIDGEGROOM.
at
Vermont's Tallest Man Was Married
Bellows Fills.
Bellows Kalis, Feb. 15. When M-e
marriage license was returned to the
town clerk's office yesterday, it was
V learned that Fred R. Smith of this place
and Mrs. I.nella LaClair of Springfield
were married Wednesday evening bv
Bev. V. K. BUghrough, pastor of the lni
rersalist elnirra.
Mr. Smith is the tallest man in 'er
mont. He it i feet. II inches in height
and well known throughout New F.ntr
land. He baa impersonated "l oide S?m"
in many parades and celebrations through
out these state and several time ha
appeared a Santa 1au in Boston s!e
partmeft store at Oiritma time.
He is iwmlr of the New Pn-r'snd
Tat Men's
Is Not Desired By President of National
Security League.
Pittsburg, Feb. 15. Secretary Daniels
was taken to task by S. Stanwood Men
ken, president of the National Security
league in an address at the annual ban
quet of the Engineers' Society i West
ern Pennsylvania here last night for
planning "to give us a promissory note
for a navy, payable in ten years with
installments maturing about IHe years
from the date of eongressional eiiaet-
lllellt."
"It is apparent that the sceretary of
the navy lias not understood the situa
tion, as now sened tiy the president,"
continued Mr. Menken, "nor has he had
the in-piration or judgment to reeognir.e
the greatness of his tk and bring to
his aid industrial leaders capable of ,
handling great enterprise. Mr. Daniels
has shown no fitness for bin pom t ion.
nor title to continue in it. 1 say tins
because at the present juncture, with
no politic but prepredne. no creed
but America. e must feel it the proper
time to ak if the people show their
belief in Mr. Wibxtn by re-electing him.
whether four jear more of Mr. Wilson
means four years more of Mr. Daniels.
Mrs. Jessie Cameron, aged !12 ycirs,
died yesterday afternoon at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Rogers, where she
had lived for the past 10 years. She
broke her hip a few months ago and since
that time her health had gradually ue
dined. She. was born in Nova Scotia and
came to Waterlmry from Bradford. She
is survived by one daughter, Mrs. Robins
of Boston, who, with her husband, ij ex
pected this evening. No arrangements
for the funeral will be made until her
arrival.
At St. Johnsbury District Preachers'
Meeting in Bane.
Twenty-five clergymen and a nuiulicr
of the laity are in the city for the winter
preachers' meeting of the St. Johnsbury
Methodist district, which opened in the
Hedding Methodist church last evening,
continued through the day to-day, and
will adjourn Wednesday noon. An ad
lress by Dr. John V. Hatch, I). I) prin
final of Montpelier seminary, and an en
tertainment by hra students, were among
the more important features of the open
ing program last evening. On the visit
ing list at the ronfiTcnce appear the
names of Rev. Joseph Hamilton of Ran
dolph, a former supintndent of the St.
Johnsbury district; Itev. K. W. Sharpe,
superintendent of the Montpelier dis
trict, and Rev, William Shaw, pastor cf
Trinity Methodist church at the capital.
Among the district clergymen present
are: itev. Kalpli r. 1-owa of St. Jolins-
bury, district superintendent and a for
Uer pastor of the Barre ehnrchV Rev.
C. 1). Piere of Craftsburv, Rev. O. J.
Anderson of Derby, Rev. II. E. Howard
of Waits River, Rev. R. H. Moors of
Lyndonville. Rev. I. A. Rannev of Har-
ton, E. W. Sturtevant of Newbury, Rev.
(J. A. Martin of St. Jolinsbury, Rev. Al
bert Abbott of Williamstown, "Rev. G. V..
Douglass of Glover, Rev. O. E. Barnard
of Island Pond. Rev, I. P. Chase of Al
bany, Rev. F. H. Roberts, who Is residin
in Burre, and Rev.' E. F. Newell, who ha
been instrumental with others of hi
church in giving the visiting clergymen a
cordial reception in llarre,
Rev. Mr. Roberta opened the service tin
morning with devotiouals at 9 o'clock
Sessions were held in the vestry of the
ileddmg church, although it will bp nec
essary to use the auditorium this even
ing. fn every instance this forenoon the
papers read by the clergymen were fo
lowed hv interesting diactissions, in
which brief talks were given bv clergy
men and laymen alike. A short husines
session at 0:15 o'clock was followed
half-hour later bv a paper entitled, "The
Forward Movement, by Rev, W. S,
Smithers of Orleans, the discussion being
led by Rev. I. P. Chase of Albany. Ow
ing to a desire on the part of Rev, Mr.
Douglass to return to his home in (lover
this afternoon, his paper on "The Work
of the Minister in Revivals Those Spu
nous and Genuine, was given tin tore-
noon, a paper by Rev. Mr. Lowe having
postponed until this afternoon
FEAR QUAKE
DID DAMAGE
Very Heavy Movement of
the Earth's Crust Oc
curred To-day
$300,000 B0NDISSUK
IS PETITIONED FPU
Montpelier ot Barre Light & Power Co.
Asks Vermont Public Service Com
mission for Right and Later to .
Acquire Waterbury Light
& Power Co.
Testimony tending to show the value
of the Watcrbury Light & Power com
pany, the official name of the Moody
Almon concern which ha plant in More-
town and a steam plant in Montpelier,
was introduced at a hearing before the
HARDEST AT 7:01 A. M. p",,liB irZlZ l Z
ri IMJlrll III LUC l" llv ' -
State House, on the petition of the Mont
netier & Barro Light & Power company
a Tennev company subsidiary, to issue
Center of Disturbance Was $.100,000 worth of 30-year convertible a
per cent bonus. I lie company
GOV. C. W.GATES
TAKES OFFENCE
Says Vermont Local Option
League Misrepresented
His Position
IT LASTED AN HOUR,
ON "PERRY." HILL
RF" .ENDUM
4,500 Miles from
Washington
Washington, D. C, Feb. 15. A very
heavy earthquake wa reported this
morning on the seismographs at George-1
mission to issue the bonds as a prelim
inary otcp toward acquiring the Watcr
bury property, which the Montpelier
company lias operated for some time un
der a base with an option to buy. 1 he
option expires March 1, 1010.
Attorney K. I.. Dana 0! Ifoaton siaieu
briefly the desire of the Tenney concern
and told the commission, consisting of
Clinirmun llur.Oi, Olirl (Villi m isSUllI CTS
town university. It lasted more than ... , Uutt0 n 0f wi,m wero
n hour, the heaviest shocks having been I present, that at a meeting of the direc-
hetween 7:01 ami 7:03. Director Ton- tors held within the past 10 (Jays it nan
dorf of the observatory said the record been decided to make tho .Montpelier j,ublic a statement which he hopes will
serv effectually
S"
Declares vv He Is Out and
0 jr Trohibi-
tion
Franklin, Feb. 15. Governor Charles
W. Gates, feeling that he has been mis
represented in a booklet issued by thu
Vermont Local Option league, the organ
ization conducting a campaign against
the Perry prohibition hill to bo submit
ted to the voters next March, has mad
The funeral of Mrs. Mary Carroll, who
died Monday at tlv home of her dauvh
ter in Burlington, of pneumonia, will be
held in St Andrew's church in this place
Wednesday morning at 10 o clock.
The funeral of Joseph Devoid, who
died of tuberculosis Sunday night, will
be held in St. Andrew's church Thursday
morning at 9 o'clock.
STRIKE RIOT IN BROOKLYN.
One Man Was Shot, Others Suffered Min
or Injuries.
New York, Feb. 15. One man was shot
and seriously wounded and several others
suffered minor injuries late yesterday
when a squad of police escorting 2sl
laborers on their way to work at toe
plant of the K. W. Bliss company in
Brooklyn fir-d into a crowd of several
hundred strikers, who had attaeked them.
Two patrolmen were injured when an au
tomobile, in which tliej- and other re
serves were being taken to ttie seen.- ol
the trouble. as overturned on the Ur
pavement.
FUNERAL OF J. E. CCSHMAN
CRA5ITEVILLE.
St. John the Baptist !"piepal ( liureh.
Wefwterv die The ladir wdl hold their
annual Mile of inmr and it.fnl rli. le-
band the kvrarer .!ib.iin the velrv of the rf unh ThurMa.
Mr. Smith r a lather by trade and works Fri.lay and Satuniar rtemne. Literary flat tax department and f ri, n )
How ia Si-riiiSflJ. and jt&iiv! j uvrau, each eic&irj. -a at a large attendant.
Was Held at His Home ia Burlington
To-day.
Iturlmston. Feb. 15. The ftineial of
Judi-oii K. Cui-iiman. former stale tat
t-ommiKner. was held this afternm
at bit home. Res. W. A. lavi,In. Bap
tist atate niiionarT. presidins. Tee
h-arerf were P.. f. Mm-r and John J.
Fnricl.t. attm. Thomas Reees. II.
M. Mlnt'h. John '. Khnn and ;.-;.
:rctt.. There was a splendid IriKnte rf
flnoera frmi ll nmntv har. Mt.
been
when he w ill speak on "The Sustcnta-
tion Cause.
One of the. most illuminating numbers
on the morning s program was a desi-rip
tion of the work being done at the North
Rarre Methodist mission. Miss Hattie
Davis, superintendent of the deaconess
home, handled her subject in a vivid
manner. Kecruits for the Ministry,
waa the topic of the last paper of the
morning. Rev. Mr. Lewis of Groton in
troduced the subject ana. the discussion
afterward was led by Bev. Mr, Barnard.
Adjournment for dlnaar-tools plac at
noon.
This afternoon devotional at 2 o'clock
were in charge of Rev. J. S. Crossland of
Walden Und a symposium on "The Work
of the Minister," included the following:
In His Study." Kev. C. W. Kelly of
Newport; "In His Parish," Bev. M. If
Sharpies of Danville; "In the Sunday
School," Bev. G. L. Wells of Irasburg.
Interest in to-night s auditorium meet-
ng centers about the letter addressed id
the conference bv Hon. Frank Plumlev of
Northfield, which is to deal with, ""The
Temperance Issues at Stake Next
March." Rev. Mr. Abbott will lead in'
fAe devotiouals and music is to lie fur
nished by the Hedding male chorus. Rev.
G. A. .Martin of St. Johnsbury, .reputed
to lie one of the strongest preachers in
the district, is to deliver the sermon.
The program Wednesday morning will
be carried out as follows: 0 o'clock, de-
otions, E. W. Sturtevant; 0:15. "Th
hurch and the War Distracted World,"
Rev. I. A. Rannev; 10 o'clock, "The Next
Jeneral Conference Problems, 10 min
utes assigned to each speaker; I, "Klec-
lon of Race Bishops, Rev. R. II. Moore:
,"A tinted Methodism," Rev. If. K.
Howard: .1. "Keonomy in the Manace-
ment of Men, Time and Money," Rev.
Mfr-faiwej 4, "Revising Out of Date and
bscure Rulings in Our Church Law,"
ev. O. J. Anderson; ft, "Other Debatable
Legislation," Bev. C. D. Pierce.
Montpelier Seminary Evening.
Last evening a fairly good audienct
(fathered. The devotions were conducted
by Rev. II. E. Howard of Waits River.
The district superintendent had charge
of the program of the evening, which in
cluded an excellent address by Dr. J. W,
Hatch, principal of Montpelier seminary
and then the audience was entertained
by some of the pupils and members of
the faculty of the seminary in a number
of well-rendered musical selections and
readings.
Prof. Hathaway and Miss Sand of the
department of musie and Miss Hinckley
of the department of elocution and the
pupils they have had in tmiiiinar tell tn
mat goon work is being df,e in that
school at the capital citv. llarre people
are to hear Miss Hinckley again in the
near future. 1 he exercises closed with
benediction by Rev. O. L. 'Barnard.
.. . - . i i la 1 1 - ... . i.irr
indicated a very heavy eartnquaKe wuicn. ict iwre cuinpnii.v r.-nium. ....-.
if it occurred on land, will be beard company. This step was decided i:pon
from. It appeared to bo about 4,500 because of the change , in corporation
miles from Washington. statutes maoe. ny vnn imsi, irKipiiuic.
... I H -1 II r, WW ..,r..,.w -"-e
Tfi irrnr1!? A IIIlVIJC'Mr'P der the Massa-d usctts law. He described
1U fUKlfc AIJliJbKfc.INLfc Lhp tition of tlie oomnany to issue
$300,000 worth of bonds.
President A. B. Tenney of Boston was
the tlrst witness and he gave his opinion,
Executor of Mrs. Iran C. Vail Estate based upon visits to the property and re-
TO WOMAN'S WILL
Seeks Court Action in Restraining
Her Husband From Waiving
the Will and Taking Hus-
band's Share.
liewis D. Bancroft of Calais, as execu
tor of the w ill of Mrs. Iran C. Vail, 'ate
of Montpelier, has entered proceedings in
chancery asking that W Eldridge Vail of
Burlington be restrained and enjoined
from further proceedings to waive the
.......w I In response to a question asked ny
will of his wife and to accept "his share Attorney General H. G. BarbeV who rep-
ports made by the engineers, that the
Moody it Almon holdings are more valu
able than the price to be paid, $.100,000.
He said this opinion was based on the
physical value .and the earning capacity.
The witness said that the company did
not expect to use the power outside the
state. He expected that there, would he
a market for all the power in Vermont,
although the market is not equal to the
ability to supply at the present time.
In response to a question asked by
under the statutes.
The prayer of the orator sets forth
that W. E. Vail waived the provisions of
the will and claimed rights by law of
her estate as her husband. The will in
question provided that Nathan L. Han
croft, a brother, and Lucy D. Bancroft,
us wife, and throe children each receive
SM0O and that 1,000 be given to Christ
Episcopal church of Montpelier. The will
further provided that her husband re
resented the state, the witness said that
the Tenney company acquired by pur
chase the Vermont Power company, Con
solidated Lighting company, Corry, Deav-
itt, Irost company and Molly rails hlec
trie company in 1912 but be could not
remember the figures paid for the con
cerns,
He said that the Tenney company bad
been operating the Wsterbury company's
plants on a lease for ?20ODi) a year, the
eeive Ti ana tne residue oi the esuto be Waterburv concern paving all overhead
left to Lewi D. Bancroft. . 't ... t;,;,a,i hf hnnt
The residue ineludea a house and lot eanrui n.M ;.. ini.rt
valued at M.000 and the fumi8r. Ws and otj!er OV(,rhPad expense. Mr. Tennev
dm L. liw I'aiirm efc M'lLlI
that Mrs. Vail and her. husband separat
ed in I!wo and that he deserted her and
failed to aid in ber support since that
i me, a period of over 25 years.
ALLOWED TO KEEP SALARY.
Burlington Temporary Water Superin
tendent Wins Contention.
Rnrlinfffnn Fdi l.'i T7nmtv f'lerlr C
J. Russell received yesterday morning l,Iant8 nd transmission lines of the Wa
the decision of the supreme court of terbury concern, the petitioning eom-
said the gross income for the Waterlmry
company tinder the Tenney management
was 531,000 for the year.
Engineer F. C. Sargent of Boston tea
tified about the physical value of the
Waterburv company and the cost to re
produce. He said the structural Value
was lietween .250,000 and $.'100,000. not
allowing anything for the water rights.
Considerable time was expended in the
discussion of the co.t to reproduce the
ermont in the suit broucht by . J.
ranklin Kidder, superintendent of the
Burlington city water works against
lam H. YA ilson of this city, to recover
the salary paid to Mr. ilson as super
intendent of the city water works, Mr.
Kidder claiming that Mr. Wil.son held
the position wrongfully. Mr. Kidder was
dismissed from his ofhee as superintend
ent of the water works bv a board of
pany's engineer placing the cost of ex
cavating at $2 a cubic yard and the cost
of concrete foundation at $13 a square
yard, taking up separate dams. He said
he obtained the figures from bid- sub
mitted bv contractors and actual work
done for the comjiany.
There were several other witnesses, all
of the testimony being intended to show
that the Waterlmry company's plants
'i ii. . i. . . i . , -i
water commissioners who were after- T " ,, rJ '. 1 "
oy ine .uunipener cc rarrp lAgrn, s. I uw-
er company. It the commission grants
GREAT AGE REPRESENTED.
45S Years at Birthday Party of Five in
St. Albans.
St. Albans, Feb. .. -Miss Grace Wat
son gae a birthday party yesterday aft
ernoon at her luiine on Diamond street in
honor of her aunt. Mist Emily Grwnr.
uho was Ml yeara old. Those present
were Mia tireene'a three sisters. Mr.
Freelove niith ami Miss Sarah Greene
of the .e.rgia road, and Mrs. f. R. Cald
well of Kiikk street, and a brother, S. C.
reene. alo of Husg street. One ifer-
n-law. Mrs. W. II. II (.reene of Rl ii in
treet. aa also present. The ronihinrd
pea of the tne people totaled 4,",H rear,
nd the ages of the four iters and one
brother totaled 3M5 jears.
L. f re.hni.iitn were sertrd. including .1
laij;e rake with Ml randies. Miss Greene
rei-rited many g:1t and messages of
gratnlation. Mir is enjoj ipg very ?ra d
health this winter.
wards found to be wrongfully in office
and Mr. Wilson' held the position for
several mouths while the question of the
water commissioners authority was
pending.
I'pon the reinstatement to office of the
original board of water commissioners,
Mr. Kidder was re-appointed superintend
ent and filed suit to recover from Mr.
Wilson the salary received by him dur
ing his tenure of the office of superin
tendent. At the September term of coun
ty court a pro forma judgment on afl
agreed statement of facts was rendered
for the plaintiff and the case waa pronipt:
Iv taken to the supreme court on ques
tions of law. The supreme ryurt reversed
the decision of the county court and ren
dered a judgment for the defendant, un
der which he will recover his costs in the
suit. -The plaintiff in this case was rep
resented by V. A. Bullard and S. R.
Moulton. and the defendant by E. C.
Mower, C. H. Darling and Levi P. Smith
to correct any false
views to which the article may give rise.
Governor Gates says: 'T have .jiiht
received a copy of the booklet issued by
tho Vermont Local Option league, iii
which my name as governor appears
prominently in such a manner aa to
leave the reader til think that I anr in
favor of local option on liquor.
"I have positive convictions on the
subject, as ninny well know, but I have
purposely refrained from allowing the -use
of my oflicial position to inliiicnce
the voter on the Perry bill next March
because I am deeply conscious of my
obligation as govenmr-to all the people
in the state; and in the course of corre
spondence I made my position clear to
the secretaries of both organizations.
Aotwithstandintr this, my name has
been used as above stated by the Local
Option league without mv knowledge
and consent in such a manner and in
such connection that the impression con
veyed by its use not only is misleading,
but also grossly misrepresents my posi
tion. For this reason I feel warranted
in making this public statement.
"The words quoted in the booklet
from my inaugural address express my
position precisely and I would not alter
a word used therein. They were used
in considering constructive work by tin
state but not the destructive work of
thoso evils that call forth the exercise
of the police power of the state.
"I am not in favor of the principle of
local opfion as applied to the liquor ques
tion, but am in favor of prohibition and
shall vote for the Perry bill."
EXPECT ANSWER TO-DAY.
the request to issue the bonds another
petition will be made to acquire the con
cern.
The attorneys representing the peti
tioning company at the hearing were
W. B. C. Sticknev of Ludlow, R. L. Dana
of Boston and Fred E. Gleason of Mont
pelier. The hearing lasted all of jthe
afternoon.
GIVEN PURSE OF GOLD.
NORTIIFIELD-ON-DOG
WAS COLDEST SPOT
IN NEW ENGLAND
Official Registry This Morning Was 18
Below Zero.. There's a Warm Wave
Being Wafted from the Northwest.
Boston. Feb. 15. Unusually low tem
perature prevailed early to-day over the
Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Bradford Renum
bered on 50th Wedding Anniversaty.
A fitting flnalf to the fiOth wedding
anniversary of Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Brad
ford had for its background the BradfniJ
home at 30 Park street last evening,
when neighborhood friends and other in
timate acquaintances of a balf-eentury
gathered for a quiet social evening. .Aft
er congratulations had been extendi"! an
original poem, dedicated to the occasion.
was read by .Miss Wfinche J. 1 lldeii.
Another pleasing feature of the informal
literary exercises attending tho adair
was an original poem sent by Mcrtn
Bradford, a son of Mr. and Mrs. Brad
ford, who requested that it be rend. The
verses were dedicated tn his father and
mot her.
In behalf of the company assembled as
well as others who were unable to be
present. Rev. J. W. Harnett of the Con
gregational church presented the coupl
To Danby Marble Workers' Demands for
Shorter Hours and More Pay.
To-day's Rutland Herald told of labor
activity in tho Rutland marble belt as
follows:
"Conditions in the marble working in
dustry in Vermont generally and at the
plant of the ermont Marble company
in Danby in particular were bitterly ar
ranged by K. Schleifer of Toledo, O., a
representative of the International Ma
chinists' association, who has just effect
ed an organization of the striking quar
ry workers employed by the Vermont
Marble company at Danby.
My investigations at Danbv dis-
losed the fact that nearly one-third of
the Vermont Marble company's employes
received only $l.."if per day. I understand
that tlie maximum wage paid is $2.50
a day and only a wry few are able to
command that amount. Nome of the
workers receive anywhere from $1.20 to
!l.r0 aday.'
"Mr. Schleifer and Fred W. Suitor of
Barre, president of the Vermont branch
of the American Federation of Labor and
secretary-treasurer of the Quary Work
es' union, established the Danbv organi
zation Saturday, and helped the officers
of the new union to formulate their de
mands upon the company.
"Tlie strikers' demands were presented
to the company Saturday. They call for
a reduction of working hours from ten
hours to nine hours, and increases in
wages ranging from 20 to 2." per cent.
"Ollicials of the company have the de
mands under consideration and will prob
ably reply to them to-day."
MEADOW BROOK GOLFERS
Held Their Annual Meeting and Plapns.1
for the Coming Season.
greater part of New" England, with ! P"r of Ko1d- M,r" Radford responding
1 . " . ... .Mli,trr tt-rtt.,1.1 lt,,fi-trtt tit n mia.l. line.
Northfield, Vt.. reporting the lowest offi
cial figure, 1H below rero, while at Nan
tucket the oflicial record was IS alxive.
CM her government stations reKrteu
as follow: loneoni. it., in ociow ;
(Jreenville. Me., 14 lielow; Kurlinptou.
Vt, 10 below; Hartford. Conn., S la-
low; Portland. Me.. 2 below; Boston. .1
above. I nofficial thermometers varied
considerably, one glass at Newton. N. II..
recording 30 below ieio.
A warm war is now preailing in the
northet and it is expected to reach
New England before the lat of the
week.
in feeling words. Before the guests were
allowed to depart dainty refreshments of
punch and wafer, confi-ctionery and
nuts, were sered in the diniiigroiim.
which was artistically decor.ited fur the
occaion. Mrs. Harry McI.eod had chars'?
of the serving and she was asfit"d by
Mi Eelvn Bradford.
ESCAPED JAIL.
Frank D. Trombley Was to Be Taken to
State Prisoa Next Day.
St. Albans. Feb. 15. Krank H. Trom-
l.lev ecr-d Monday night from the;i,t. hot vour trunk was in e.Hid hm.K
BARRE WAS MENTIONED
In Letter Found Among Anarchistic Lit
erature in Chicago.
Chieago. Feb. LV-One of the letters
frtiind inwnj! anarchistic literatife in
the rooms of Frank Allegiri which was
reached in the hunt for evidence of con
spirators in the re-ent poisoned soup af
fair reads as follows:
"I have sent your trunk. Things are
pretty bad Ihtc. fie strike is prettv
Meadow Brook golfers assemble.! in
Clnn Gordon hall last evening for their
annual meeting, closed theJ!U." book-,
and turned to face the motd promisirg
year in the history of the club by elect
ing ofliccrs for 191 tl. The scriee oi tlie
president, vice-president and secret:rj in
lOI.'i were so satisfactory that their ie
elections seemed a foregone coiicln-ion.
Here is the shite for the coming season:
lresident. Arthur I'irie; tire-president.
George Brand; secretary, D. F. McU-od:
executive committee, president, vice
president and secretary, ex-ollicio. Aiix.
Miller, William I'irie. John l;lnck and
James rainier; handicap committee. .L!nt
Black. William Cine. Alex. Miller. Wil
liam Cell.iflv and Arthur I'irie.
For the first time in the aetcral v :r
of its existence, the Meadow Brook
Hooks forward to another season with
' com fort a bio surplus in its treasirv.
I!i. much a arcjiupliolied in th ;.
of improving the course eft Itroos - e ;
and more is to l- achieved in t':- cine 'Mi
llionth?, if present plan attain frul:' i .
At the present time tlie ihib h.i tee
lari;et membership in it- hitorv m...
the ent lniMx-ni iLsnili-ste f at last iii-' t"
gathcrintr augurs well for the srolt'na s n
son at Meadow Brook iut around l!
corner.
Franklin county jaiL where he had i. n all the time. J hat dirty
(detained pending- the settlement of a ! has made a report that you
Fisherman Beavily Fined.
CUlled T WaJnagtoa Casrck
--. Marrbi. I Harrt Dudley t La.t y...nt l e; . :.,"
and la line "f si.in an I n-t in Mi.i ti Ii. -
'quest ton regarding hia deportation to If tier are lookin? for yin and I bejj vou city court Monday for hain 4", -i,..ri
Itanada. At the Seofemhrr term of j tn be careful and let me know if you are ' trout in In j- ti lat jrii.-.
i Franklin county eoiirt Trorabb-y a -, in a safe rls,-e- I w ill let vou know hv i t harh-s l-atwrnwat iid !? an I -
ahini;t-n. Feb. 15.- Fet. p. tVrlW ! ten.-d to serve t years ia the state hen I nte acin. I t me know if t -ii j for a similar offer-,
of North I "range. has Hefi call i I fri at V in.S--r f.r Uenv and he a' are going to Barre. Vt. Then vmi it id i I In lie", s i Oi, l.iii-e-t t ! - r i I
to the pot-rat of t'w 1 o.veraali: ha I at-ut a t trs" parole to serte. fr r-e . let me know .it- U.-, le.l e V. .-', iulm -.-rt f-
1 imo chorrh in t'os pU. to wiwj k-T. Irt- He a t Kate tn take to m,!-r thine of iit i il.ins nwr there." 1 his law h: h : k. - iii : i t, V u.-.ma.
irg lci,fj. . re .?. ifctat'r. jcUidr,
lelUr a tinned "I ci'.w.iiii.'
1- 2itk for tm .1.
