ft
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
s( ) sj? jc sfc sft J j(c jf Jj? (c c ii s(s
9
I'd 0 11 D O QUO!
nn, mVY nVTWTQ ON TRAINS AND NEW
PRICE TWO CENTb STANDS ITWT5 cknts
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1916
(Ik Sflik
Jfflf DUEL
IE
ALONG WES1
1 FROM
Prosecutor Thinks Story of
Empty Phial Points to
Germans Preparing for General Assault Along Fift f
Mile Front-Paris Expects Attack To Be Made Toda
1 ' Monster. Submarine of Monitor Type Is Last Addi f
to German Navy-fighting May Continue for Days :
London, Feb. 15. While the steady roll of arti 'f
reverbrates in the Champagne hills, the Germans, accord
ing to dispatches, are preparing for a still more powerful
offensive there. This is designed to throw the French
back along a fifteen mile front from the Challerange
railway. .--
Paris expects the Teuton blow to strike before night.
Evidence of the German intent has been seen in the
battling of recent hours. For a day past, German guns
have concenrated their activities on Tahure and the sector
east of the Navarin farm.
By making a wedge in the French lines west of the
Navarin farm on Saturday and repeating this operation
five miles to the east on the Sabbath, the Germans threat
ened the French, retiring on a wide front. Indeed, they
may force them back to the Souain-Perthes road. The
French, in turn, will probably counter attack, and thus
furious fighting is likely to continue for days.
New Type of Submarine.
London, Feb. 15. New monster submarines will en
force the Teuton decree to sink armed merchantmen
without warning, said the Telegraph's expert today.
These new craft, he declared, resemble the original Amer
ican monitors except that they will submerge. Above the
almost cylindrical hull is an armored battery which can
be made airtight. The vessel can submerge and bring
this battery just.above water. . t
Waukegan, 111., Feb. 15. After go
ing over with Chief of Police MncGuirc
of Lake Forest the evidence in the case
of William. Lambert, States Attorney
Dady announced today he is ready to
try the prisoner tomorrow if neces
sary. Simultaneously Orpet 's counsel an
nounced that ho will ask a change of
venue.
The state's attorney will not use the
testimony of David James, a deaf mute,
who has admitted that his previous
statements about the case were false.
James saw Orpet with the girl in the
woods, but did not see him trying to
force her to take poison, the mute now
claims.
in mmm
T
BY RULING TODAY
11
Final Ending of Suit Brought
In California Two
Years Ago"
COURT HELD JUDGMENT
OBTAINED BY FRAUD
Fiancee Bnows All.
Waukeean. 111., Feb. 15. New arrests
in the case of William Orpet, Cniver- The supremo court today denied the
sitv of Wisconsin Jr., accused or poisin- petition of A. u. frpeneer tor a reiicar-
lllg ins one won- a ct-uu-ui i, iuaimu ing 111 me
Lambert, seemed likely today. against A.
Motion For Rehearing Denied
Today, Which Settles
Property Titles
Strong Delegation In Con
gress Will Try to "Save
the Bacon"
POISONING AT CHICAGO
IS ANARCHIST PLOT
Germans Capture Trenches.
Berlin, via London, Feb. 13. German
troops captured over 800 yards of Eng
lish trenches in a sudden smash south
cast of Ypres, the war office said to
day. Think Matter Settled.
Berlin, Feb. 15. Ambassador Van
Bornstorff has notified the foreign of
lice that America has yielded to Ger
many and will not press the unnccept
nt the American Lusitnnia
proposals, the Lokal Anzelger reported ed and several wounded when aero
today. This paper said the case prob-1 planes bombarded Schio Monday.
ablv would be closed in Germany's
forthcoming note to the United StaU'6.
Torpedo Boat Lost.
Copenhagen, Feb. 15. That a torpedo
hnHt mav have been lost in Hie rth
sea v.as indicated today by Danish
fishermen's di-scovery of a ho with 11
German letters inside sad a card rn
wliii.h was written: "To'do boat
nou sinking, 38 aboard."
Aeroplanes Kill Six.
Rome, Feb. 15 Six persons were kill-
'
...
THE FIRST MOVE
Washington, Feb. -15. By
vote of 3S to 2,1, the senate tod
dav passed Senator Borah's mo
tion to investigate the feasibil-
ity of government ownership of
railroads and all public utilities.
Borah's motion came as an
amendment to the Newlnnds
resolution, which supposedly fol-
lowed President Wilson's idea
for a general investigation of
railways. Newlands opposed
Borah's proposal saying that
government regulation had not
yet proved unsatisfactory.
"The experience of Europe,"
said Borah, "has shown the ne-
cessity for public ownership of
railroads in time of war, and
this has advanced the cause of
government ownership 50 years
within a short time."
Progressives of both parties
voted for the Borah amendment.
Rural Credit Bill
! Is Before Congress
Meantime. States Attornev Dady
continued his hunt for further evidence
as to the illicit relations of the paid,
though he concealed developments. It
was evident, however, that he attached
much significance to evidence indicat
ing that Orpet last tall obtained abor
tive medicine and last Tuesday got a
snull empty bottle previous to keeping
his appointment with the girl in the
woods.
Orpet was calm and confident today.
"I cannot talk as freely as I would
like, as my lawyers have told me to be
silent," he said. "But my absolute in
nocence will be proved in the end."
Despite denials by States Attorney
Dady, it is beleived the girl's mother is
trying to lid in freeing Orpet.
"What's the use of prosecuting
Will?" she said. "That won't bring
Marian back to me."
Orpet 's mother, too, insists that, he
will go free.
"Our faith in him is unshaken,"
she said. "I did not know of any rela
tions between Will and Marian, other
than those of school mites."
Meanwhile, Orpet 's fiancee, Miss Cel-
estia vouker, a Dekalb teacher, has
heard the whole story of how Marian
Lambert feared becoming a mother, of
the girl's tearful pleading with Orpet
not to desert her, of the list walk in
the wood, and the discovery the next
day of the girl's frozen body..
Miss Youker is calm, though doctors
feared the revelations might provo a
serious blow to her in view of her ill
ness with valvular heart trouble.
Smoking manv cigarettes, Orpet
seemed to have his old time spirit to
dav. His lawyers expected to confer
with him about the inquest which u
scheduled for tomorrow. .
For you a rose in Portlund grows"
can now be stated as a tact.
,
FOR LOANS TO FARMERS
Washington, Feb. 1.). The
Ilollis rural credits bill, propos
ing loan to farmers at five per
cent interest, was favorably re
ported to the senate today. Non
partisan support for it promises
favorable action on it.
Abo Martin
7 Atl?!
Washington, Feb. 15 The rural cred
it bill provides for a non-partisan farm
;loan board with tb secretary of the
J ! treasury as a member. This board would
I charter local farm loan banks, who
would take mortgages from farmers and
! issue bonds on them. These would be
from tnres. and moreover, the
t t 1.1 1. r.i nn nnrnmiMintl rfl
newal fee or discounts. Loans may be
for a long as .10 years and payable in
installments. If enough local banks are
not started, the government would aid
in establishing 12 of them.
The committee reporting the hill
claimed that it will standardize farm
loans and provide a system seriously
needed for the development of the na
tion's agricultural resources.
Sav They Foiled Plot
To Blow Up Battleship
case or. inaec u. names
B. Spencer ind thus tho
final chapter is written in the case
which indicates that the supreme court
of this state considers that all of the
ends of justice have been met and that
Mrs. Barnes' contentions have been un
held in all partictil irs. This was an
action brought by Spencer to foreclose
on Salem property to the value of
750 on n judgment for $iSl,3!l!) rendered
in the California courts.
The case was heard in department
No. 2 of the circuit court of this state
by Judge Galloway who stated in re
viewing the testimony that the judg
ment wis rendered against Mr. Barnes
during his absence in New York and
the evidence given by Spencer himself,
showed thut the land and mining deals
in question were promoted with Mr.
Barnes' money and that Spencer never
invested a cent of his own money that
lie only furnished some maps whose
valuo ilid not vxceed $10 at the out
side. The deals involved property valued
at l,.r)12,000 which wis sold, so Spen
cer claimed, at a l'"fit of about 13S,-
000 in the shape of commissions, and of
this sum he claimed and recovered
judgment for one half.
As Barnes sold six claims of his own
in tho case, the supreme court held the
sum he received was the purchase price,
and there was no commission. .
When the originil suit was brought
by Spencer, Mr. Barnes deposition was
taken in answer to Spencet's claims in
the complaint. Then the court allowed
Spencer to amend his complaint and at
this time Mr. Barnes was in New York,
lie did not have i chance to answer to
the new contentions in the amended
complaint and the judgment was grant
ed under these conditions. Spencer
then attempted to levy on the property
in this city through the office of the
Washington, Feb. 1 5. Anti-" pork "
congressmen indicated today that they
will fight lor reduction of tho rivers
and iiarbors bill appropriations. The
measure, carryiuk nearly $40,000,000,
was booked for final consideration In
committee today, with an early report
t i iiie house.
Among the Pacific coist appropria
tions asked are:
California lluinbolt harbor and bay,
M-l.'ui.OOO; Sacramento and Feather riv
ers .$115,000, with $75,000 if $75,000 is
contributed locallv; Oakland harbor
$100,500; San I'lbio bay, $150,300; Los
Angeles and San Francisco harbors,
$75,000 and $15,000.
Oregon and Washington Columbia
river $1,200,000.
Washington Waterway joining Lake
Union and Lake Washington with ru
get Sound $:MM,000.
Oregon Columbia ind Lower Wil
lamette rivers below FVrtlnnd $:100,000;
Coos Bay $70,000; Yamhill river and
Willamette river above Portland $17,
000. Surveys, with possible later improve
ment, was authorized for tiiese localities.
California Black John Slough, Eel
river, Venice.
Washington Bikers bay from the
main ship channel of the Columbia to
llwaco.
Oregon Channels in the St. Helena
and Rainier rivers; Hoquaiton slough;
Snislaw river; Willamette river be
tween Eugene and Corvallis.
Disbarment Case May
Be Long Drawn Out
Los Angeles, Cal., Feb. 15 With 30
witnesses waiting to be called, attor
neys for both defense and prosecution
in the Barclay McCowan disbarment
case, now on trial in the district court.
of appeal, predict that the disbarment
proceedings will end tonight. McCow
an, district nttorney of Krn count
ty, is accused by K.. W. ' MvCuteheon
with having solicited a ipiuu fee Tor
dismissing a ehnrge and McCowan as
serts that he is the victim of a political
plot.
Many Interested Bakersfield people
crowded the court room.
This Was Fully Revealed by Letters Found On John Alfcgrhi
When Arrested and Held As Witness-Planned to Blast
Churches, Kill Clergy and Destroy Public Buildings
Two Score Bankers Marked for Death by Plotters
Chicago, Feb. 15. Police authorities of Chicago and
many large cities of the nation are hunting for anarchists
involved in a plot, the ramifications of which spread all
over the world, to wreck churches and kill the clergy. .
The plot was fully revealed today after interpreters
had dug into Italian letters found on John Allegrini, ar
rested as a witness in the conspiracy to poison Arch
Bishop Mundelsin, Governor Dunne and many other
notables at a banquet here last week.
The poison banquet was insignificant compared to the
deadly aims of the plot as a whole.
Steeped in the bitterness of religious hatred, the plot
ters, taking their directions from anarchistic headquar
ters in Rome were to blast churches, kill clergy and rum
public buildings in this country. No creed was to be
spared. Fifteen persons are said to have constituted this
gang of "reds" and the police are now making every effort
to round them up. . -
Meanwhile, the authorities are hopeful of catching
soon Jean Crones, missing University club sub-chef,
suspected of being the plotter in the poison banquet case.
Letters revealing the anti-clerical plot bore Chicago
and Salida, Colorado, date lines. They were unsigned,
but from their contents, the recipient apparently knew
the sender and knew who was meant when blank spaces
were left in the writing.
(Continued on File Bix.t
S TA TE DEPAR TMENT
WORKS ON PUZZLE OF
ARMED MERCHANTMEN
Stock Market Quiet
German Exchange Lower
(Coprright 1916 by tho New York Ev
ening Post.)
New York, Feb. 15. Foreign ex
change movements iu today's stock
market were unimportant. Sterling was
steady. The fact that the German rate
was slightly altered in the Berlin of
ficial posting yesterday, induced a low
er rate here, at 75 1-8 ,although bankers
with German connections appeared to
hold it slightly higher.
Wishington, Feb. 15. Tho state de
partment still considered today its at
titude toward the Teutonic decree an
nouncing its determination to make un
warned attacks on armed merchantmen
after February 20.'
It was hinted, however, that a form
il announcement of its attitude may be
unnecessary. The government realizes
that if it were to protest against the
Teuton plans, a delicate situation with
the central powers would result, inas
much as the department recently sug
gested that tho allies voluntarily dis
arm nierchmtment.
At the same time, acquiescence in the
German viewpoint will result in a pro
test from the allies on the ground that
a change in policy in the midst of the
war is unwarranted and unneutral.
Moreover, the allies undoubtedly would
refrain from sending armed merchtnt
men to America, thus creating at least
a partial boycott.
Asked today whether the United
States would ' protest tho unwarned
sinking of an aimed merchantman cir
rying Americans, officials said today
the question is hypothetical. Ameri
cans, however, will probably be notified
that t lie v- travel on armed belligerent
ships at their peril, and this govern
ment m y refuse to issue passports for
such travel.
BRANSON FOUND GUILTY
McMinnville, Ore., Feb. 15.
William Branson was convicted
of murder in the second degree
today on a charge of killing
William Booth. Tho jury was
out from 5 p. m. yesterday until
10 u. m. today.
Booth was found with a revol
ver bullet in his henrt at Wil
lamina, October 8. After a
brief investigation Branson and
Mrs. Anna Booth were arrested
and jointly indicted for murder.
Mrs. Booth, it wns alleged, had
been intimate with Branson.
Circumstantinl evidence against
the pair was all the stn'e could
find. Mrs. Booth's t'ial in De
cember was a long drawn out af
fair, .'suiting in a disagreement
of the jury.
One of them told of i new bombj
that would "be a fine thing to throw
among a lot o'f religious people" after
church attendance od Sunday. Another
discussed the Colorado strike and said
things were getting "pretty hot" there.
The plot is believed to have includ
ed the attempt some time ago to do
stroy St. Patricks cathedral iu New
York, together with pi ins to ruin a
number of churches and big business
buildings in this city.
Letters found on Allegrini s room
mate, indeed, hinted that two score lo
cal banking men were marked for
death in the pluts, tiiougii authorities
hare refused to throw particular l'ght
on this phase of the case while they
are hunting lor the mm.
The plotters are believed to have a
surprisingly large fund for destruction
and for bail of any arrested members.
Strenuous efforts were made to get the
release of Allesriiu. and bail to al
most any amount was offred. Author
ities. however, refused to releise him
overnicht. and said emphatically that
nothing would be done for him before
today.
Three Others Expecting Death
Are Pardoned Facing
Firing Squad
Washington, Feb. 15. Carranzistas,
necordinz to reports today, notified the
United States that a plot to blow up
the battle'.diip Kentucky at era ( rut
had been foiled by Carranza 's agents.
The storv went that the alleged plot
ters were unknown. No information eon
cerniue the report wns obtainable from
I either the state department or the
Mexican embassy.
Mexican Ambassador Arrendondo is
known to have filed certain offidnvi
with tho slr.te department. It is re
ported these charged that not nnlv Mx-
I ienns, but also Americans, were involv
ed in the plot, the nllegcYl rmrnnse of
w hich was to involve the United States
! in war as did the blowing up of the
! Mnine in Havana harbor.
It is understood that the raw
, i partment lias wirelessed the Kentucky
Mis-s Tawney Apple is keepin' com- to be on the lookout,
pany with Elwood Moots jesta t' git th'i
cnuiMiirs. Clothes don 't make the actress. 1 Tlanted your sweet pens yetf
Would Not Recognize
Notice of Germany
Washington, Feb. 15. Senitor Ster
ling of South Dakota, introduced a reso
lution toilay protesting against any rec
ognition of Germany's notice that she
will attack armed merchantmen without
warning.
'The resolution declared tiiat the
"senile views the German order with
concern" and regards it as a "more
serious menace to commerce, particular
ly that of America, than any act of the
war." Hccognition of the decree, it
was said, would "be a step bm kwird
ami an abandonment of freedom of the
seas, which would contravene the policy
of the I niteil htates."
SIOEY WAS FALSE
Washington, Feb. 15. Former Presi
sent Mellen of the New llpven railro.nl
BRYAN WILL OPPOSE
WILSON'S NOMINATION
BUT HE WILL NOT BOLT
New York, Feb. 15. "William .Jen
nings Bryan, the man who made Presi
dent Wilson's nomination possible at
Bnltimore, will in all human probability
oppose his renomination in June," said
the Evening Post's Washington corres
pondent in a copyrighted article to
day. "This was the fixed impression Bry
an left in my mind after two long talks
with him recently. He asked particular
ly tli nt nothing be said about his views
er Bryan's conviction about the vdnglo
term for he is wedded to that principle.
Hi) holds that it is vitally related to the
public welfare and ho has held that
view for 20 years long before ho ever
heard about President Wilson,"
letters Not Allegrlni's.
Chicago, Feb. 15. Dominick Forte,
believed to be on anarchist of tho most
vicious type, is being hunted by the
New York police,
Thev took up this search after John
Allegrini had protested that letters,
found on him and indicating nn inter
national plot against churches nnd
churchmen, were really the property of
Forte, roommate of Jean Crones, who is
wanted in nn alleged plot to poison
Archbishop Mundelcin at a recent ban
quet.
One of tho letters, previously at
tributed to Allegrini said:'
"There nre many men penned like
dogs In Joliet (the state penitentiary)
What a wonderful thing it would be if
we could free them. It would be hard.
F 's there, you know."
Allegrini was arraigned iu municipal
court today on charges of attempted
murder and conspiracy to murder, and
bail wbb set at $5,1100 on each count
The letter, given above, and the fact
that police found iu Allegrlni's pos
session floor plans of some of the lnrg
est Chicago skyscrapers nnd churches,
constituted the evidence on which he
was held
Mennwhile the hunt for Crones ns a
poison banquet plotter, and the chain of
"reus" believed to be involved in an
enormous anti social and anti clerical
plot, operated out of Home, is bcinf
puslieil
liumors hove eome here from many
points saying ( rones has been caught,
but up to early this afternoon none
these had developed anything.
An unidentified person today tele
phoned the Minneapolis police the lorn
Ttin iwirrcHtmnilent iitiited. however.
that Bryan's opposition will be based j of a house in which it in believed
toilay wired tho senate sub-committee until the president unl announced his
in charge of the Louis D. Braudeia' su-1 candidacy, and even then he did not
preme court nomination hcirings that i want to be restricted in any utter-
e had no knowledge of Brandeis' ron-ianee or pronouncement in advance of
more on technicalities and that pre
pnredncss and "many other differen
ces" will furnish him with the am
munition to fight the second term.
If Wilson is nominated, though, Bry
an will not bolt him, the writer stated.
"The Lord does not require us to
win. lie simply requires us io oo our
nectioii with tho New Haven case and! the convention. He wanted. to be free) duty," Bryan was quoted ns saying,
no papers about it. A Boston financial . tn do as he thought best to express
writer hnd told the committee Mellen himself at the moment he thought was
could throw light on Brandeis with re-the most opportune.
Intion to the New Haven case ami "The fact that President Wilson's
claimed Brmdeis sought to wreck hie j renomination seems assured will not alt
road. . i
The former premier believes, it was
stated, that President Wilson has need
lessly alienated the German-American
vote and is saddling the democracy
,with unnecessary burdens
Crones nnd Mrs. Brescl, widow of Kinr
Humbert's slaver, nre living. Mrs.
Bresci is wnnted as a witness in the al
legeil nnnrchist plots,
Arrested the Chef.
Milwaukee, Wis., Feb. 15. Acting nn
orders from Chicago, local police today
arrested Mnrco Bonino. chef of the llo
tel Pretoria. He will be questioned
about the poison banquet attended by
Archbishon Mundelein and other no
tables nt the Chicago university club
last week.
IK SHOT
ASFI
El Paso, Texas, Feb. 15. While 5,000
persons, including many Americans,
made the event a holiday affair three
former Villistns accused of theft, wera
exceutcd at Juarez today. 1
Tho death march to the northwestern
station was headed by a band inac
played popular airs, while hundreds at
civilians tell in behind the condemned
mon in a joyous procession.
Two of tho men tacea uea.ui wunuut
a sign of fear. They even retimed s
blindfold. But Manuel Hojas, former
bugler for Villa, gave some evidence
of weakening, leaning against the ailob
wall of the depot tor support, auccpioi
the handkerchief blindfold.
He was the first one shot.
He had scarcely fallen to the ground
when the second man was lined up in
front of his dead body and shot. A
the third ninn fuccd the firing squad.
he looked ut his dead companions, mut
tered a prayer, and then said elamly
to tho captain:
"Shoot when you like; good Dye,
comrades."
The 15 rifles sputtered, and tho third
man fell between the other two.
Three other Mexicans sentenced to
dio were then drugged up to tho heap
of corpses, while the soldiers prepared
to fire. Just as the crowd thought the
command to fire hnd been given, thu
squad captuin read a pardon from Gen-
oral Gavira, whereupon the trio Drose
into cheers.
AMBASSADOR MAY RESIGN
Waidniiffton. Feb. 15. Reports today-
said Ambassador George T. Murye, of
I'etrograd, will soon resign due to ill
health. No information on the report
was obtainable from the White Hoinwt
or state department. Mnrye s secretary,
Bay Baker, is now neve.
t TUT WPATHPR
now mtTstJfh
Oregon: Fair
tonight and Wed
nebdny; wind
mostly casterlj'.
