VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 92.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1. 1916. Coptirfpht, 1016, by tho Sun Printing and PubtltMnp Association.
ONE CENT
In Greater New York. I Elsewhere
Jersey City and Newark. I TWO CKNT".
CHIHUAHUA IN
VILLA'S HANDS;
CITY IS LOOTED
Kefugoes Beaching El Paso
Say Carranza Garrison
Is Scattered.
JUAKKZAND OJINAGA
PBEPAHE FOR ATTACK
All Americans With One
Exception Believed to
Have Escaped.
El 'to, Tex., Nov. 30. Tancho Villa,
Mtxlc&n bandit chieftain, holds the city
f Chihuahua and the former Carranza
(niton l scattered.
Confirmation of the fall of the capital
f the State of the same nam came to
the border to-day when refugees arrived.
A number of tho fleeing officers and sol
Ore of the recent Carranza garrison In
Chihuahua Laos arrived In Juarez,
bringing with them much of the artil
lery wed In the unsuccessful defence of
the city. A large number of -wounded
men were also brought Intu Juarez for
treatment.
One Mexican civilian refugee declared
to-day he had reen Villa In tho city
Monday morning before the train left,
lie said Villa was walking without the
aid of crutches, as If to hisplro his men
with his fortitude. Ills mustache was
hired on and he looked much thinner
thin of old.
Among the refugees was Gov. Fran
cisco Trevlno, brother of tho general
who had command of tho defence of the
elty. 5en. Trevlno fled southwest of
Chihuahua with 1.500 men when beaten
ut of the city by Villa on Monday after
noon. Tho refugees said Gen. Oxuna,
oecond In command at Chihuahua. Is re
ported headed for the border nt OJlnaga.
Juirez and OJlnaga aro fearful of at
tack from Villa and preparations for
defence are under way. (Jen. George
Bell., Jr.. commanding the American
border patrol east and west of i:i l'ao,
hij doubled his outposts, along the Inter
national line and posted artillery on tho
helnhta above El Paso. This Is tho first
time artillery bos been placed with guns
trained on Juarez since tho 1'crshlng
expedition marched into Mexico from
Columbus.
Troops East mi" Tort Bliss.
A battalion of Infantry has also been
writ eait of Fort Bliss Into the open
tountry, apparently to guard ngulnst any
mrprlse attacks. Throughout the past
i.z years of Mexican warfaic no Anicrt
cin enmmnnder has ever before deemed
It neceisary to post troops east of Fort
Bliss, whteh Is In the opposite direction
from Mexico.
Carranzlstas In Juarez claimed to
night that Villa had not captured all
the city, but that a large number of
den. Trevlno's troops still hold the
penitentiary, well provisioned and with
ample ammunition. They say Trevlno
evacuated because ho ran out of ammu
nition and the Vllllstas' captured a car
load flit down to him from Juarez.
They assert he Is attempting to form a
Junction with Oen. Francisco Murgula.
coming north from Torreon, to attack
the city In nn effort to drive Villa out.
Utters received here from Torreon
dated six days ago Assert that (Jen.
Murgula has returned there, unable to
fft north to the rescue of Trevlno.
fn. Francisco Gonzales, at military
headquarters In Juarez, said tn-nlght
h hail received a report from Carranza
"Bccis that Oen. Murgula wn at
Horrasltas. south of Chihuahua city,
on Wednesday and was advancing rap
Mlv toward the city, lie added that
(en Curios Ozuna, moving south from
Haur. had reached Nonibro do Ulna, a
mil settlement northeust of Uip city,
and via engaging the bandits. He also
aid he had received Information that
0n. .tnclnto Trevlno was nt Ilnclemla
tiolnre, et of Chihuahua city. In
f'udeil among the wounded brought to
Juarej wero Col. Morqucz and Col,
Malto. both of Oen. Ozuna's cavalry
column, shot during tho fighting in
Chihuahua City.
Looting by Ilaudlts.
Carranza officers who enmo with the
Military tialti from (ho south reported
Oen. .Murgula to havo been nt Racblmba
en Sunday. He wa moving on Chihua
hua at that time, they said. Annther
report brought by Carranza ofllcerH on
thin troop train wax that (Sen. Trovln.i
.is at Aldnma, upproxlmntely thirty
rnlles eon of Chihuahua city, with a
column of men.
Itefugees reported looting by bandit
hen they left Monday. They also a
erteil that bandits had fired Into the
train in which they wero leaving the
city
"Villa's men went shouting and sing
In up Kanta Rosa Hill about .'. o'clock
Monday mornlng..whlle tho soldiers of
Tieunn were making teady for High' "
refiit( Ha,i. "We could see tho Vil
lains plainly. We never had thought
that Uh city would be taken,
".Ml the American.", It Is thought, es
fapei from tho city except one, tin
'ner of a garage.
"Umut 3,000 soldiers and too civilians
I'd nt tho patne time thnt wo did. We
''ft the station about 9 o'clock Mon
day morning and arrived at Hauz about
1 o clock, We found 2,500 of Oen.
( -tr. ozuna's cavalry and about S00
Jf nis infantry theie. Wo left Sauz
"eiinesilay niornlng. At Gallegn wo
Jr transferred In t lie train that was
bearing Gen, Gonzales hack to Juarez.
Tni train went dead nf Haui'heila, and
'' tlonzales continued on his way to
Juarez on n. handcar,"
ACUNA QUITS CARRANZA POST.
Ulnl.irr uf Inirrlnr llnd llren Sup.
planted In Extra OBIcr.
'rpi.TAno, Mexico, Nov. 80, Jesus
'"ma, Minister of the Interior and tern
torarlly in cliargr of foreign affairs, lias
iwisned Gen, Carranza has not hull.
Jt'il tlnjs far what action tin will luke
ii rmiird to thn resignation, Alfonso
"Hi'-' Sub-Hecretary for Foreign Relit
tlei assumed charge, of the foreign de
Is" "-tit tii-lay, as Foreign Minister
. ir i on leave to enable him to sit
i Un- 'institutional congress.
Ml'i-, I, pun I, who yesterday irrseiited
' ! Carranza the protocol signed al
1 " M'.intlo City conference, probably
"'h t tn Mexico city before returning
10 lh United State.
DRIVER KILLED, TRAIN
RUNS WILD 30 MILES
Veteran Fnlls Off Itmiiiin,
Jionrd mid Is Crushed by
the Wheels.
ritii.i.tptDL'na. N. J Nov. JO. With'
the throttle wide open a Lehigh Valley
milk train sped along at high speed for
thirty miles to-day without nn engine
driver. At Black Tom, fourteen miles
below here, Allen Miller, the fireman,
coaled the locomotive. As he climbed
back Into his seat Johnron Hhaffer,
the engine driver, shouted a friendly
word across the cab.
A few minutes later the train dashed
over a dangerous crossing, disregarding
the signal post's warning. Miller won
dered at this. A few miles down the
line was another crorslng. Miller knew
well tho point nt which the warning
whistle should be blown and when It
.didn't sound he became alarmed. Swing
ing himself down to the floor of the cab.
he crosred to the other side, to tludlthat
the seat usually occupied by the engine
driver was vacant. Not only was the
throttle wide open, but so was the small
door leading to the running boatd along
me snie or the boiler.
Miller stopped the train and dropped
to the ground. Tho conductor came
running tip at once and word was sent
back along the lino as far as Black
Tom. The station agent and other em
ployees nt that point began a search.
A few yards below the Black Tom eta
tlon trackmen found Shaffer's body, the
head crushed and limbs fractured. Ap
parently Shaffer had fallen to his death
when attempting to make some repair
irom me running board, lie was 68
years pld and lived In South Kaston.
CZAR'S $80,000,000
OH WAY TO MORGAN
Treasure From IV tropin d Ar
rives nt San Francisco
$32,000,000 in Gold.
SN' Francisco. Nov. 30. Gold, to
gether with Russian and United States
securities to the value of (80,000,000,,
which iirrivcu ncrn yrnicruuy on uir
Japanese liner Shlnyo Maru, consigned
direct from l'etrograd to J. I. Morgan
& Co., New York, was forwarded Kast
to-day. Of this, $32,000,000 was In
actual gold.
Tho big transfer from the Russian
capital to New York explains why three
prominent Russians of the Bureau of
Finance of the Hussion Ministry of For
eign Affairs also arrived on the Shlnyo
Maru and proceeded Hast on the train
carrying the treasure.
It Is said Russia has spent more than
J3G0. 000,000 In the United States during
the Inst twenty-five months for war
'munitions and railroad supplies.
Thomas W. Lamont of J. P. Morgan
& Co.. when told last evening of the ar
rival of the big shipment of gold and
securities at S.ui Francisco, said :
"We cannot confirm the precise
amount of the gold and securities mi
boanl the shin. We have known for
.1 . . . . '
Kunic unit", iiuwrt-i,
was on Its way from
that tue shipment ,
Pctrograd."
nn 1,1 Lr I the, fore-runner '
T'. ..I. I... .....,
is ueueveu in
r other . morta of Ko1d and nrobablv .
secur les from Russia and Is part of k
. i Aii(M .Mr.Kit 1
iiuKi- "c nir '".-
Izlng In this country to finance their
purchase of war munition. Although
It Is the first big shipment of gold 1ml-
ii.jnui.ii ... , , u "'
such n m.intier. England nnd France. I
which held l.irge accounts for Russia,
havo been forwarding gold here for the
credit of tlie Russian Government. The
Russian Minister of Finance, the
French Finance Minister nnd the Chan
cellor of the Exchequer of England, have
been working In harmony nnd have been
cooperating with one another In the
financing here of the. Allies' war con-
It was said last night that a great
deal more gold would pour Into this '
country from Canada. England. Aus-'
trnlla. New Zealand, Russia, France '
mid other parts of the world. There
was a rumor several weeks ago that '
Russia alone would ship more than
$100,000,000 to America within a short
time.
GERMANY EXPORTS GOLD.
Heavy Shipment tn I tsrrlmul to
l'inallsr llxt-hniigr.
Gt.nkva, via Paris, Nov. 30. Germany
has sent 10.000.000 markH fK.500,000)
ill gold to .Switzerland to eiiuallie the
, tato of exchange. The bullion arrived
at Hern tins morning ami was trans
ported to tho .Swiss National Hank,
The price of the mark I'ontlimeaTn
fall. It was quoted here to-day at 81,60
and the cinwn at firt, while tho rata of
exchange with the Entente nnllons,
though below par, fluctuates idlghtly.
BRITISH LOSSES ON SOHHE.
Cnsimlllr Total .frfN.Hri'.: Men nnd
Otni-rra for File .Months.
I.ONHON, Nov. no. Rrltlsli casualties
In November, as reported from all fronts,
were 7I,j0, (if tho total 2,351 of the
casualties were among ollli-crs and 72,299
men.
There wan n marked falling off In the
November losses as compared with re
ceut months, probably owing to tho slow
ing down of the Somme campaign on
account of bad weather. The average
jdull loss in ''tolcr wis 3.4-.. com -
pared with 2, SS In N btr. Hio
Noven her casualt.eH bring p tl o U tal
of nrltlsli casualties reported In tho tlvo
months since tho beginning or tne
Homme offcnslvo to 488,852,
NEW YORKER WINS WAR HONOR
Julian Allen t.'ltril fur Bravery In
French Army Orders.
Pahih, Nov, 30. Julian Allen of New
York city Is clled III army order. "for
having volunteered to transport wounded
requlilug urgent care from relief pjsts
to hospitals over a route In night o the
'enemy, frequently snciieq una swepi ny
, michlno gun fire, a fine example of
bravery and endurance."
I Julian Allen I only 1 year. old, the
! vnungest driver of tho American Amhu-
lanco Corps In Prance. uto joinen tne
corps when he woa only a llttlo nioro
llian IS year uld. Ills father ami
mother aro .Mr. and Mrs. Frederick II,
Allen of Prlliitpi Mnnor, They expect
lilm buck beforo ChrlHnns. ond any
that once be get liac-k lie Hunt stay
and tutor lo enter' Harvard next fall.
Ills older brother, Frederick, Is also with
the American Ambuutfiee Corps.
I
TRANSFUSION IS
TRIED TO SAVE
J. P.. ARCHBOLD
Chauffeur of Standard Oil
Head Gives Blood and
Patient Bnllics.
PHYSICIANS HOPEFUL
HE WILL WIN BATTLE
His Bugged Constitution
and Simple Habits Prove
Strong Factor.
Tarrttow.v, N. Y., Nov. 30. John D.
Archbold la making a valiant fight for
life ut his home here and to-night
seemed to be winning.
Operated upon a week ago to-day for
appendicitis, he failed to rally and yes
terday his condition was so serious that
a blood transfusion operation was de
cided upon as the best means of restor
ing his ebbing strength. Five eminent
physicians from New York performed
the operation yesterday afternoon, his
chauffeur furnishing the blood.
At first Mr. Archbold showed no good
effects. Grave alarm was feli last night
and this morning. But this afternoon
he began to Improve a little, and a
friend who saw 'him to-ulght said he
was "noticeably brighter."
Helped by Simple llablls.
The man who has been supreme In
Standard Oil affair for two decades Is
68 years old. But throughout these
years he has adhered to the clean and
simple habits which were his when, a
a boy, he was a clerk in an Ohio vil
lage groccty. Acquisition of great
wealth only .caused him to take better
care of himself. He has no vices and
no Inordinate appetites. Stresi Is laid
upon this becauo hlx physicians say
he would have died two days ago had
It not been for these rugged traits.
John D. Rockefeller, his close friend
since 18T5, Is greatly concerned. He
has postponed his departure for Iike
wood, N." J., to be near the Archbold
home, with which he keeps In constant
touch. William Rockefeller ujsg gets
almost hourly bulletins. - -
Mrs. Archbold bore the strain well
for a time, but to-night is reported to
be confined to her bed as a result of
her worry
Wn nt Oltlre l.nst Week. army, called n council of the officers of
,. ., , i the Athenian regiments at the headiiunr
rJll ' fn t mm J ' ,,tocie-1 ers of the First Army Corps Wednes-
. , nn.', ' .IT Y ''n . "' The King attended the conference,
fore the operation, lie did not fee well I l.e ru (;(ivc,llm0nt has sent a re
that day. Monday he still was ndls-. i.. , vu..i.i.,ii i,, ,in.
ttOMpil. hut uent In hl nflW sin hl
II
llUl VkCin 1(1 III OU.eCS OH lUn 1
yacht t)
0'bli
IP IXCf), US UMiai. 1 U-SiaV lie
ri wuiiRru it' niuj ut liwiliv, iim u nun .
"J1 l"?"1 '""n',,",nv V!'" he ? ,cd n .
nrt tint It Wt nno.l n t hit ..ttA.l 1
L'?5 "TM "' Vr. Vr ':",e"''n . lr'r '
y'or" -" "". V
orK- i
Til n Wilt WO fllutTiiontil n nniirn.l
(Ileitis, and the operation was performed
I last Thursday. When Mr. An-hhuld
I failed to recover his MreiiRth. but In-
mead sank steadily, n consultation of
... ..... , ... . ... '
five phjslcl.ms was called. The trans
fusion operation was regarded as lm
peratltc. Tests were made of tho blood of va
rious iiicinhern of the household. It is re
ported, nnd even of the physicians them-,
selves. Hut In the end the chauffeur was
fuun'd to have tho best. Ho neither,
drlnkj. nor smokes, lie in Known hv
eight to every one In Tarrytuwn, but iij
",,v ""' "''"'
To ( hllilrrn nt Iledaldr.
John F. Archbold and Mrs. Michael M.
Van Heuren, son and daughter of the
milcken nun, are here. Mrs. Armar
Saunderson, the other daughter, lives In
JCnglaud.
The news of Mr Archbold'. Illness wi
sadly leeelvcd In Tarn town, where he
is extremely popular, lie is a gcneroi-s
lienor to the village fire jlnjisrtment, to
the local churches and anonymously to
the poor. IIIh home, nn old fashioned
brick house with extensile 'treeiihnusen,
I In South Rroadway, near the homes o'
Col. Jacob Ruppert, Col. Robert Howry
nnd Pavld I.ukc, It Una fiOO or 600 feet
frniitnge on the street nnd perhajir 2.000
feet on the HiidFon, where there i n
private landing for the Vixen, will, a
foot bridge across the railroad tracl;
leading to It,
The simplicity of -Mr. Archbold's tsts
and his democratic manner nre favorlbi
topics of gohslii In the village.
TOOTHBRUSH CAUSE OF DEATH.
I'eims; Ivnnln .tnry lJcclilen Cne I
voIiIiik 97.700 Insnrnnrr,
int.tsi.K. Pn,, Nov 30,.
Afier hour.
,,f .l.llherniio.i n Inn- .leelile.i In., lav
... ................. .,
Eby was n druggist at New Cumber
land and Ilarrlsburg. Mrs. Eby con
tended that he died of cerebral henior-
i rhnge caused hy choking on tlie bristle
,0f a brush with which he had been
,,rus,1)(r ,, ,,, phycnn(, who ..
, , d ,,, . , , wMow. con.
trillion,
The Insurance company based Its de
fence on tho testimony of Hr. William 8.
WadHwnrtli, Coroner's Physician of
Philadelphia. He conducted an autopsy
und said death resulted from natural
causes. The cne occupied the hotter
part of three days.
2V2 CENT PIECES URGED.
Director nf Mint Nnr Country Dr
ill nods Hueli Coins,
Wamiin.itosj, Nov. 30. A two and
a half cent piece Is demanded by tho
country, nc.'oidlng to tho Director nf the
Mint, whose, nuniial report, made, public;
to-day, recommend pasago of a law
authorising coins nf that denomination
from copper nnd nickel.
"Articles which now sell for 1.1 cents
each or two for a quarter would sell for
l!'j cents," ho say. "Popular shops,
such ns the live and ten cent stores,
would undoubtedly place articles now
selling two for i cents on sale at l)i
cent." .,
inai a ioowiornn nrisue rnuen ine i ways loom up iih soon as no succexsfiil " i ..... . i ...... niiirry nn - -
...... I. ., !.. l.nal.'.n.l nf It.. l.,,l. A - ... ... .. Inn u u l ill' IIP 1,1 tit . Wfl V tliA u.nn.... w.. I
.,r.,.u "'- ...... ... ....n. , - figii.mg can no reporieii or constructed,' i 1 , , . . , ' ""''i" 1 linlser Sends tirerllnua.
Eby. and the Travelers Insurnuco Com-I .iyH (lie Overseas New Agency of al1 ,l,", nf Industry, constantly In-( run. i.rrriniu..
I rt llnrtfor,! r'rttin iniml n'i. tt.A .... ., . ' . ' nrAi.ln- tlm lllllllhee nf IIHAmiilni.. I f 'in ,n, if Wltlh.n, mttnt Him In-1 ,,
i ' "'.." ' ' "" r.iignsu una rrcueii newspapers In 7 ,. . , . : ' v " I ' '
widow $7,700, I ii,i. . ntu-m-9 fnii. h. .o Tho spirit of tlie doportc.l HelKl.ini Is i telegram In Chancellor ion Bethiimun-
GERMANY TO GO DARK
FOR ECONOMY IN COAL
Klcctric Signs to Be Prohib
ited and Public Places
- Will Close Early.
BcnLl.v, by wireless, Nov. 30. The
question of Germany's coal supply Is
widely discussed In the newspapers. The
German mlnca are providing coal for
factories and railroads to a greater ex
tent than In peace time, as a large num
ber of German railway cars are now op
erated outside or trie country, In Poland,
the Balkans and other territory within
the hands of the Central Powers.
Prohibition of the use of electric signs
and other forms of Illuminated advertis
ing, restriction of lighting for show win
dows nnd tho Interiors of shops, limitation
of street railway and elevated traffic and
an early closing ordinance for business
establishments, restaurants, hotels, thea
tre nnd moving picture shows ore In
prospect as parts of the campaign to re
duce the consumption of fuel and em
ployment of labor to which the Govern
ment Is now energetically bending Its
attention.
It Is probable establishments other
than groceries, butcher hops and other
food distributers will be closed at 7 P. M.
and theatres and restaurants at 10 P.M.
The people also will be urged to restrict
lighting In their homes.
ENTENTE TROOPS TO
DEBARK AT PIMDS
Crisis Precipitated When
(Srecks Recapture Post and
Telegraph Lines.
Athens, via London, Nov. 30. The
Kntente Allies are ready to begin the
debarkation of troops at the Piraeus, the
port of Allien.
The Greek Government has retaken
control of the pent offices and telegraph
lines In Athens, expelling the French
control officers.
IjOKPOV, Nov. 30. Despatches from
Athens quote an Untcnte diplomat as
saying that King Constantino has given
assurances to Admiral du Fournet. com-
mander of the Anglo-French fleet In the
Mediterranean, that order will be main
talned Friday, the date of the expiration
of the Admiral's ultimatum for the sur
render of the Greek artillery. The diplo
mat also says that Admiral du Fburnet
has promised that the measures he will
take to Induce compliance with Ms de
mand will not Include forcible seizure
of arms.
King Constantlne, acting In the ca
pacity of Commander-in-Chief of the
1 !r
..fn.li.n, 1.l .lamiX.U nnnllnr- in
ft ,lA...,tIU ft,..,, .Ifhotm
An Alliens desjutch to the Daily
Chronhtt under date of November 30 ,
"scribes the following statement to Vice-j
Artin ral Iu Fourne, l commanl of the
aliit-cl tlect In (Jreek writers:
mi in.ut n1..nlMl1v ntuin ihm
I
tlon or my .lenmn.is aim w i see inai
they are realized In spite of nil obstacles.
i remii, iiri.iMi ..nu iiaio... uc.i ,,.... ,n
will be landed at all point """ssary
I will endeavor to avoid bloodshed, but
will fulfil my mission thoroughly.
DIET SQUAD STILL GAINS.
llnnst t'hlckrn Hnt No Turkey on
Thankasjlt Iiiic Mrnn.
rillCAilo, Nov. 30. The diet squad
feasibility of living on to cent a day
This Increase was In sidle of a lo
I ,.f inn and one-bnlf nouinl since es.
, trr.lay In nr. Albert J. Stokes, the squad
lieiiv.i weight, which wns accounted for
. . , ... ... .. n-t 1 l..i
Ill Ills uisnuiy Ul laciiiK ti I iiiiiiKPKlviiiK
dinner without turkey. Toniorron's
meals will be:
Breakfast Stewed figs, cereal, toast,
butter, coffee.
Lunch Boston baked bean, brov-m
raisin bread, celery, dato salad, tea.
Dinner Tomnto soup, baked lake
trout, potatoes, bread and butter, Wash
ington cream pie. ten,
'IMAGINARY GERMAN LOSSES."
Oirrsen Aurnrr Attni-k llrltlah
ml I'reiieh Csmnnlly I'luure
RpnUM (by wireless), Nov
1ft
''"'""
'..,i ,'.
. ... Il.n.. ,ii.-.n.niia mi in,. I' I I'll.'l. I ro.ll
. .ii.. i... v... .. .. .........
I viriuanj iinn iik i i-.i.-iii-ii .1 nianiisilll. ine
I newsnnnerH of the Entente nntlonii onee
I !.,. .. . ni.n.i
I ., . 1...... .
IIK1''1 " "'"I n.-iiitn, icip, 1 hi-
method," adds the news agency
j,..,,,
. ,'
tliAi' nnlillnli Iternl.lii lossps rtiirlm. ihn
last month, then during tho Inst lu-o
month. and then for three mouth, and
so on until finally they publish tlie'total
figure of the wliolo period of the of
fensive in order thus to crentn In neu
tral countries nn Impression of increas
ing German losses,
KRUPP DIVIDEND 12 PER CENT.
German Ordnance Company Will
Withhold Half of It.
Bruun, via London, Nov. 30, Tho
Krupp company tins declared a dividend
of 12 per cent., the same amount ns last
year.
The company, however, will withhold
6 per cent, as a ten year loan, explain
ing that the wur tax and extensive nil
dltlons to Its plant In executing war
orders necessitates this.
Dies In
Mlntlon.
George Meurer, 6,i, of Jersey City,
dropped dead lu the 161st street elevated
station last night. With his daughter,
Elisabeth, he was on his way home from
the home of Ills brother-in-law, Goorge
AlvUh, 720 East I671h street, The Bronx,
whir they bad Thanksgiving dinner. '
I. ...I tuebj... !,( In I I). Ihnv limn rmiiipv pkm Mia rnlllorf nf , H'l iii-HI I v- l lit- l.mn v Hi) IIUIUO
members dined well on roast chicken I Andro Puniont. w lit re many hundred. of Iron Jo grow ants no slave,
and such other foods as could be pur- workmen einploe.l In the works have J ' "'" "''V"' "m , .." M
el,nse.l within the 40 cents a day limit. , been moppe.l and the wo.ks forced JuL iipu,r' "Vl,. u a' Sr ciSlcd on
There was a total Increase of Jut twenty Into ldlei.es. At another I.lmbourg ,e " ?Xr '" "U, W.' I. an cio
pounds In weight since the beginning colliery called Wlnterslog. near Gessk. '' ""' " 'J1' ' ' but " 18 Cl
nine day ngo of the test to prove the the German authorities have tried to "om,(- wnr or """"
100,000 DRIVEN,
SECRET EXILES,
FROM BELGIUM
Priests, Teachers and Stu
dents Sent to Unknown
German Towns.
WOBKEBS ABE TAKEN
X FROM THEIR TASKS
Appalling Details of Whole
sale Raids Beach London
. Plea to America.
Slierial Cabtt Dttpnlefi to Tin Sex,
London, Nov. 30. Vlcomto Davlgnon,
son of the former Belgian Minister of
Foreign Affairs, has Informed the corre
spondent of Tun Su.v that appalling
details of the German raids have
been received here from Uelglum, par-,
tlcularly from Antwerp and Waterloo.
The Vlcomto renews his plea that the
United States take action.
Among the Ilelglan men deported from
Antwerp, the Vlcomte says, were six
priests, a vicar, many teachers and stu
dents, nnd married workmen dwelling In
Antwerp nnd the suburbs of Horgetiout
und Berchcm. At the centrnl station nt
Antwerp another number of deportees
have been distributed In group-) of sev
enty to eighty, who were given tickets
without Indication of their destination.
Already 6,000 people have been de
ported from Antwerp. At Waterloo nil
men between the ages of 17 and 50 were i
, ...... , . i
called out and the street barred b hoi-
djers. An actual "razzia" of utile boil led
men followed. The refusal of the mu-1
nlclpalltle to furnish lis! of the uncm. I
, , , . , . . , ,
luujcu in sirn iij lot- ir,iiin huiiiuu-
ties as the dliect cause of the carrying
off of the emplojcd men.
na, nor , Hrticlmi !rruilra."
. llpllH,p,u n:,pr ,.,,.,,
German says that all this I due to the
fact that owing to tlieir scruples neigl.ui
workmen generally refuse work on re
pairs of railway material under the pre
text that If It was repaired the material
eventually could be employed for mili
tary purposes.
The Belgian authorities explain the
unemployment of Belgian workmen by
saying that 600,000 are condemned to
Idlenesn due not to laziness but to the
measures taken by the Gernmi authori
ties themsehre. Industry has been crip,
pled by the removal since the first year
or the war of all raw niatcrlale, ma
chines, section of machinery, tool, mo
tors, leather, topper, lubricating oil und
driving belts. Work Ims been made im
possible by a decree forbidding the Itel-
relo tn u'nrb nnluliln t)ilf tifwnow fl In
It.l-lni,, ,.t Ur (.wluwtrl-.l .lUlplnle
get their workmen entirely or partly
from villages nnd hamlets five or ten
mllea away,
Impiissllilr to Hun I'ni'tnrlra
It ha become Impossible to run the
; rell,alnnB factories This country of
,,, r.lllr(Mlll,. ,MM 1(fcn u,.,irvcil f tB
, ,.., anJ roll,1K MO(,ki wh,.h ,:ive )CCI,
; ffUt (J 0 ,,, frollt, rlnK of
,c)cos navo i.een k-Ii.-.I and workmen
fp .,,,!,. , rr,un t1(. f,,t.tf,rics. Trade
I has been crippled directly by the ever
j Increasing number of .etitralstelle. es
tablishing a monopoly for the acquWi-
tlon of all kinds of material and m.iiiu
! factures and product. MoreoierL the
'liermnn authorities lire still creating un-j
, employed men, i '
1 the new colllerle of I.lmbourg -
I force the miner lo sign a declaration
i by which they pleqge themselves to work
Ill Germany nr for the Germans at the
nri run. ine woramen reiuscu, ine
German .iiinnuuccil tliey would occupy,
,, nr.- I llornli. I r.T tt Titr t,1 ,1 tUm
' -
( ."..-w, .......v - - -.
miner Into uncmplicd, and these un
employed will then be deported to Ger
many. Deport till), (Kill Into (irrmnny.
The number of nelgl.m. deported In i "H h'f Clinncellor of tho Exchequer ha
German raid- will e.um ninnbcr Imj,- .staled, has thu bought eveiy week to
000, m-cordlng to Bnr.ni Iteiene, Bel-!11'" amount of f I'.'.liOO.ono, which I
glan Minister of Foreign Affairs. Raron twelve llioiwand million marks u jenr
Beveu has sent the following cable, j ' 3.nflO.OOO.OOO i. Friino.. during ten
gnini from llncre, prepent seat of the ' months paid for thn j-ame purpose twelve
Belgian Government, to the nelgl.ni Con- , thousand million franc ($2,100,000,000).
Hiilalo lu New York: Half the world I nt our enemies' dls-
"Tlio deportatlod of Belgians hv the I"a1
Germans continue. wllhout any distlnc-' "w" " transallnnllo Imports.
it i.. i . .
imil lirii''ll uiiriiii'it'. in ir I'lllIitu.MMl.
. a l i . .. a a
The deiiorled will soon number 100.000.
... , . , .
T hev are gathered together ami r.mi.
, . . . " , ,., .,
l'"''p'' w Ereni nrniaiuy. Hallway
men are specially searched for. At the,
same time the Gemmiis nre multlnlvliic
- . . .
wonderful In their suffering,"
At the Belgian Consulate It
iv ns said
Hint M, de Wlarl
Belgian Minister of
Justice, lias telegraphed to M. de
Sadcleer, Minister of sstnto for Belgium,
inai i.hk ,ii'.-,i i- .,.-i-ij mnirii nun
Indignant over the deportation and
exile Imposed upon the Belgian people
"Thn Belgians." It wiih raid, "firmly
hope Hint iih soon ns till nlmnat In-
credible outrage s known all civilization
will vigorously protest ngnlnst this hor-
rlble crime ngnlnst humanity and the
law of nations,"
GERMANS UPHOLD RAIDS
"Korliilarhc Zeltung" Nays "Our
Security I'nnira First."
Brill. IN, via London, Nov. SO, Com
menting on tho representations made
by Switzerland regarding the deporta
tion of UelKlnn laborers, the lioelniache
Zrituiia says:
"We cannot govern our policy by nn
favorable Impression of neutral. Our
military security nnd tho Interests of
the Bilglnn population demand tlm re
moval of UelKlnn workmen to Germany,
Until th" reasons leading to the adop.
tiou of the measure are changed It can
not be revoked. No mailer nhnt lm
presslons the incident may give, our
security cornea, first."
GERMANY READY TO END
. WAR, SAYS HOLLWEG;
WILSON NOT YET TO ACT
Allies Must Guarantee the Future of Teuton Nation,
Chancellor Tells Reichstag Col. House Silent on
Rumor of European Trip to Sound Fighters.
I)Knt:tN, by wireless, Nov. JO. In an
address to the Reichstag yesterday, In
Introducing the man power bill, Chan
cellor von ltethmnnn-llollweg announced
that Germany was ready to end the war
by a peace guaranteeing the existence
and future of the nation.
It was tho Chancellor's sixtieth birth
day and his desk was decorated with
chrysanthemums.
"The war continues with its destruc
tive forces," the Chancellor said. "Ac
cordingly our enemies deslro It. They
celebrated the past summer as a period
of victory. But did they obtain what
they wanted?
"Our lines are unbroken, and Ru
mania, through which n great change
of events was expected. Is now atoning
for what she did. God has helped us
up to the present,
He will help us
further.
"Til. nltnnat .Iin,p1iiitnq)i flrtfii. nt
our tro0IM. .heh cllnnot be exnressed
In words of thanks, and our clear con
science, since we, tho first and only
ones, were ready and are ready to end
the wnr by a peace guaranteeing our
existence and our future they give us
moral right to such confidence.
Knrmlri Mot for Peace.
"Hut, gentlemen, this right ought not
i to make us forget duty. Our enemies do
not desire pence yet. They have superior
numbers at their command, und almost
the whole world delivers war material
to them."
The Chancellor urged the necessity to
do everything In Germany's power In
order to manufacture the necessary war
material, saying: "Hands that nrc Idle
lij" tnem.
The man power bill, he continued, had
,)Mn dscu,d wlth le Interested trades
and in the Reichstag Main Committee,
"nil w.i in harmony with the patriotic
?,,,!r't kl,,olV' l,y,,llf wl,.",e "a,l"
'- rt K ' I'll' .,
I "On behalf of the confederate sovern-
mctits." the Chancellor continued, "I ask
ou to assist In the work which will
nrlng u new strength and guide us
toward victory and peace."
I lie War Min ster. I.leut.-Gen. onl
Klein, pointed out the paramount need of
war material during the present conflict. Gerard have had to do with other mat- Von Fall;chha n' army In northern
He said the heroism of the trootis at the ,. " ,h . :" i.. t. . .. ,.. . .
front Imposed upon every German at i"8 a" h?."- .?'a.ke'i Wa,,acl,la' Thla opens tho road running
home the necessity of providing the req- EniAl'.h,, "TnJL r , ov" tho Transylvanlan Alps from Trn
Ul"T;emen"mv,h.,.d .CrVd .nn.lllnr loT... van.a Into Rumania, through ,h.
lowm VM wl" President'. Torzburg Pas,. It also further threat-
time a very energetic French General ,. , m, ' , ens the Rumanian positions In the Pra-
stood opposite my sector. We found on t0, ,,0" on Secretive. ilovn Valley, where the Rumanians an
txlsoner. and on the dead documents j At his home. Ill East Fifty-third "lounce to-day that they made progress,
uhlch mostly were Incomprehensible to street, Col. House declined to discuss the j Klmpolung had long been Htubbornly de
ns. From them we learned bow many various tumors. He would permit him-1 fended against very strong Teuton at-
itentn sentences were passed hy the
General on his own soldiers.
ttelrralrr Are Shot.
"At the time of our vlctorlou attack
en the much tnlkcd of wire hedge at
Thlepval. behind which machine guns
were placed, tho order was given:
'Whoever retreat will he shot.' At the
time of the attack on the heights south
of Avricourt t-oldler. enptured there
stated they had iecelve.1 the order.
"To us such an order Is Incompre
henlble. The hernlm and sense of
duty of our sildli-rs Justify our confi
dence that they will never be found
wanting, even when fighting against
numerically superior forces."
Ir. Hclfrerlch. Minister of the Interior,
said :
"The home aimy nnd field army In tills
war Join hands for nn Indissoluble union. I
rnderneath the (.erniiin soli are rich j
treasures, but they must be lifted tn the
daylight "
Pr. Ilelffeilcli then quoted a historic
I German song, which a century ago diir-
ms ine war or ueinerance inspire.! in
ICliulniid'o Work Anllrd.
'England, which nlw.ijs speaks of
prineiiniK iieuuni-, ii.im ny ner uiicrier-
enco wun man, n.ying system and;
...... . . .
' file. ii iilul h.iH cullseit Ihetn tiiorn .limine
1 1 .ll-Kl SIM .'111 l.T tieCeSM 1 - l.llOllrlJI .mm
.. '
thnn ever an enemy could do.
"In tho economic war wo together
with our nllle slnn.l In all essential
things alone. Our enemies can continue
lo Import from ncrns the seas. England,
! W'rt tn list flv linnn niir nti-n wnrlr nnrt
i " "i
1 mi tar iirnilllpn ivhfi t TV IiuaiI In nun nn-ti
I ni
nt t.
w m k,
I'ho eiirlh lei. Is what nenee.l for
r,-i,l
." ' ."'".'.""" "
".no pence, un iaw ninoiiizes work.,
' '"' 1,01 ",'Km cnmplctei the
llolliveg on thn Chancellor's Hlvllelh
' birthday :
i "I thank sou from my heart for the
loyal faithfulness with which In this most
1 serious time you have stood at my side.
KiiuiK .-iiivi.-e anil assiiuiH-e, aiay i.no
give you In jour new j ear of life health
! nnd vigor for further work In the service
of the King und the beloved country May
Hn give you and us all n tlnnl victorious
end of this stnimy time, of snuggle."
'. Grand Admiral ou TlnuV. on being
I appointed nn honorary member of the
Get man Navy Association sent tho fol
lowing telegram to the association t
"For more than twenty yejirs 1 have
felt certain thnt the German nntlou can
not mako Its wny without n strong navy
As far as the general conditions and thn
mends ut my disposal permitted 1 used
my best endeavors In thl direction. Not
to be restrained by heirs of England but
to maintain a position of equal rights In
tho world was my aim. If Germany
does not obtain this object after this ter
rible struggla the life of the nation will
bo dwarfed."
J. II. Hammond Seriously 111,
lULTljuiine, Nov. JO. Jojin Hays
Hiimmond of Now York, who was taken
111 hern a few days ago, aupporcdly tut
feilng from ii cold, was reported lu In
hi a serious condition to-night from In
testinal trouble.
ttmlilllT.iUn.i nr tifllmiinl nnr . "
Rumors that Col. Kdward M. House,
at the direction of President Wilson, Is
to go to Europe soon on a peace mission
were denjed yesterday by persons as
sumed to be close to the President and
Col. House. Not one of these would per
mlt the use of his name In circumstances
so delicate, but they hastened to give posi
tive statements to a reporter for Thr
Sun that the President has no Intention
at present of renewing In any form his
suggestions of mediation between the
belligerent Powers.
The story, which has been about that Col.
House and James W. Gerard, the Am- j
bassador to Germany, have been con-1
ferrlng with the President about ways)
ana means ui iiiicrcsmii. mo uomim.b
nations In a discussion of peace terms,
and that Col. House was to revisit the
European nations within a short time,
was characterized as "worthless rumor''
by these persons believed to be In Mr.
Wilson's confidence.
President's Point of Vletr.
They said the President's point of
view could be expressed about as fol-
lows:
He Is anxious to sec the war ended
and would eagerly consent to act as a
mediator or to use his Influence In any
way to bring nbout peaco If the time
were ripe, but ho feels a renewal of
mediation offers at this time would be
absolutely futile, since It i-eems evident
that neither side lu the great war It
ready to concede anything of real Im
portance. The President believes any
further steps on his part at this time
might only be a cause of Irritation to
one side or the other and so affect the
Influence for good the United States
may come to exercise later.
With this clearly In mind, friends of
the President assert, the futility of a
further tilp to Europe on the part of
Col. House Is obvious, and they say that
Col. House han no Intention of ffolnir .
abroad within the near future. He has
not tnafie any plans of that character, It
wllh ",hJ .-."V ,h.., Vi;
t self to be nuoted for thi only
u hen I go abroad I shall make no
secret of It."
Ambasndor Gerard, following his
lule. aho declined to talk about peace
poMlbllltles or to Indicate the main sub -
Jects discufsed by him with the Pnl -
UCIII. I
There I a feeling nniong the Presl
dent's c!oe friends lu till city thnt the
coure of the Administration will Ix i nrty-tlir field guns, twenty-four ma
much fltnier now that Mr. Wilson ha.clllll0 etln, an,i thlrty-twn nmmunltlon
" '"". .ivaiioB wiin violations
of American rlrhtw. The Impression ha
arisen among this group that the Presi
dent intends to put his foot down hard
111 dealing with each side, but thai be
Intends to keep to the fore the distinc
tion between the destruction of American
lives and the violation of rights affecting
Vioperty.
'HELLO" GIRLS REWARDED.
llroker (illr Cheek In i:niptnre
In the Vandrrbllt.
Tim girls on the telephone sn Itch
boards nnd nt the newsstand In the
Vanderbllt Hotel had special cause for
Thansglvlng esterday. P. M. Chand
ler, n Philadelphia broker, who spend ,
iniH-ji oi inn nine in ino i an.ieroiit. o(
ciipylng a big suite, took a.liant.ig-. - n(iv.,tu-.' of the Germans means a consld
hls holiday leisure to wr to a J230 ., (llY(.s, n n step forward gives
check for the sixteen te ephono Bills. ,j,cll, lho ,., aislilct. whllo n still fur-
nnd one for MSn for tho clrls- who
preside at the newtun.ls.
lie had been pleased by th-i prompt
Kprv m (, fiiiini.ipn ill cT.n.ir ....iiiia.-
t'"'" w'li middle Western clients (Hid
- m -
..V.r..v.V , 1;;, . . V
rP.hi. .Lit. rI " ' ,0 "'e Klr'S
in tin manner
GOVERNOR'S SON AT TABLE
Charles S. Whitman Nils t'p nnd
Takes .Xotler of Tnrury.
AlRAvr, Nov SO.- Gov. Whitman In
hi otll.'lnl Thanksgiving proclamation
fulled to give his personal reason for
feeling grateful ut thl season, Chief
nniong them was the presence nt his
dinner table to-dny for the first time of
Charles H, Whitman. Jr.
The Governor's son took his place at
the table In the Executive Mnnslon with
his father, mother nnd sister. Olive.
He outgrew h's high chair In the nu-
sery. Ills Initial Mate appearance was
a success except for tlie quantity of
cranberry saucn he spilled on his bib.
RICHES FOR LANGH0RNE GIRLS.
Father Converts jX,1 :ts, 7.1 F.stato
tn Trait Fund for Them.
Rn-HMOS'p, Vs., Nov. 30. Col. C. T)
T.angliorrn has filed In the court of Al
bemarln -county n deed converting his
estate into a trust fund for his children,
each tn sham alike
Among the children are Mrs. William
Waldorf Aslor of London, Mrs, I , ",'
Philips of Boston. Mr.. Chailes !) n a
Gibson of New York, nnd Mrs. Phyllis
Brooks of Albermarln county. The es-
tate Is valued at 11.132.175
SAILOR KILLED IN SUBWAY
w""""'
"
). nt Mnnana. r-. . . . .,
Platform at Brooklyn Bridge. I
A. R, Watklns, a sailor from the p. s. I
nrmnied cruiser Montana, wns klMe.l
last night nt the Brooklyn Brldgo sub.
way station when he.sUpped from he
Platform In front of 'a southbound
press train "mmi rx
r,. ,,1,.. i. .ji .
Jcv brake tmtbe u-ih, ..r?,eH.r"
g.niy urHKe.-. Mlt the train struck the
sailor and dragged him ten fret. Wat-
mn ajri. ur.vjr wiu nrrirai oi i,r. Ileus
J, . J I , L . ... .
f i om Hudson street hospital.
Tl.ifflc
was held up fdr ten minutes.
Fnr ynnr tlonisch's Mi
Bnuh't H.tmjtt.A4ytftittm4it,
drink Dr,
TEUTONS ABOUT
TO BEGIN SIEGE
OF BUCHAREST
Von Mackensen's Forces
Now Only 10 3Iiles From
Rumanian Capital.
CITV BEING PREPARED
FOR A HARD DEFENCE
Invaders May Be Within
Gun Range of Ring of 18
Protective Forts.
" "
JSIANS IX 4 HOUR
INCESSANT BATTLE
Czar's Troops Threaten Kir
lilmba at Pass Entrance
to Hungary.
j
I
Lonhojc. Nov. 30.-Tho siege of
! Uuchnrcst Is about to begin. Von
.Muckenacn's Germans, Bulgiira nnd
Turks aro only sixteen miles from tlia
Rumanian capital. Under direction of
Gen. Bert helot tho French strategist,
Bucharest I being prepared for a
stubborn defence.
Von .Muckvnscn'M troops, which
croR.seil tho Danube, druvo the Itu-mnnl.-ui.s
Inst evening from tho town
of Tzoniann. nixtocn miles south of
Bucharest. To-nlghfa German state
ment sayH that tho Muckcnscn army
Is still pimhlng forward. It may now
i Ins within gun ninge of the outer forts
Qf Bucharest.
1 Klmpolung meanwhile has fallen to
i tacks, but tho rapture of Pltcscl .venter-
uny ma.io it rail certain. Kiinpnimig
I Ih on the edge of tho oil fields and has
' a population of 15,000.
1
' Trntnnn TnUo tirrnl llooty.
J . tremendous booty has been won by
the two German commanders In these
victories, i.'omblnid. thcro Is announced
to-day the capture of two heavy guns,
....... ,vlt . nr Honer ncgregutlne n.OOO.
Against this great concerted sweep
upon the capital the Rumanians and Rus
sians nre trying two meaMircs, The
Russians are still pushing their offensive
In tho Carpathians north of tho Ruma
nian border, nnd tho Rumanians are
making a stand on the banks of the Glav
ntzlotzu River, west and southwest of
Bucharest.
Although sat slle.l that the Rumanian
i army I still nlt-olutely Intact. Mujor-
Gen. 1-. H. .Maurice, cnier uirecior or
military operations nt tho War Ofllee,
said to-day that any further advance hy
the German would mean a considerable
feuccc for them.
Menace Corn nnd till Districts.
"Then I no ue," fai.l Gen. Maurice,
minimizing the fact that tho further
Ilier Hep means tlieir possession of the
vll bells. Rul:t Is moving, however,
nnd the fact t' at tin- Rumanian ntmy I
stilt Intact Is iicouinsing. Even the
German Tepnim clulm to lino liikcn only
1 if nnan repot in claim to h.ne liikcn only
I.f 0 men and a few guns, which mean
(h(t y pletcuan of last w.-.k. that no
more than tho rear guard would be oap-
i tured, has been moie than fulfilled.
"Tho Rumanians hnin been occupying
n dangerous salient, with one army ham
tiering from the north, while another
n a coming ur from the Pinube, nnd
Its safe explication is no mean feat of
arms. Whe'hei- this Int.i t nrmy means
to make a slnnd befoic the c.iplt-il re.
main to be seen
Driving forward In Ihn Carpathians,
near Klrllbaba, thn Russians nin still on
the offenlie. By forty-eight hours of
Incessant fighting they have got within
rifle range of the town of Klrllbaba It
self. Kitllbaba I at the entrnnce. to the
Mist nf three passes leading Into tin
Hungarian plain.
, .
! nnsslnns InUr Itiikiidn Height.
The Russian attack In oilier pari of
ike Carpathians, with tho saiun object as
those near Klrllbaba, ham had some sua
rets. Rukad.i Height, southwest of Ws
karka, has been taken, and with It 100
German prisoners and three machine
guns. Added to other Russian capture,
these make l.nou prisoners aim morn
i than twenty m.icn un biiu ......
taken s i. "';i" w)lrMll,
i The. Hlver t,UaUlolzu, on which ine
'. Rumanian Intend to -J""''
i H'"l''' n M",r' tributary of Ih.
1 Arge. Tzomana. which the Russian
i announce .u MackeiiHen has tnken. Is
the southern bank of the river,
1 At Bucharest Itself tho situation I
like that of Paris In tho fall of 1!U1,
Just before tho battle of thn Marne, Thn
I Rumanian capital I being made, ready
for n (iefper,it(i defence, The circle nf
I .l.l1, l.nrn.n fl.rt ...i OMr
i clKllie.-ii lull" ni
tlm advent of the great German mor
tars was supposed to he very strong, I
being strengthened feverishly.
'jon.nno Leave Ilnrhnrrst.
i ., , , ...
" inp.",t.V0,,V moarT? flty nf
10,000 Inhabltanis has now bei-om. an
j jn t rf.nt-i,r-il camp lu which aro barely ba'f
that iitiinber of civilians According to
! " '""' -"n"'l0.l III tho
,roll.,i- rur already Is limited. Thov
havo been taken lu cliargo by tlm army
.ra ,.i11B lMC,i , nrcnara lho cltv
tor ,i,reiu-e.
Geu, Uerlhelot and thn chief of pollen
of Bucharest have ordered thtt th
women and children leave within flv.
day. They will be transported at tlw
1
