vp
sa ..*.A.-.W..ma -a
tagee the. 0-- ' ?hIs1,,,we,
NOea 96 ur-tW TT a..FD.E RR 16CN
NO. 3696.. *WzTMu-FAI WASHINGTON. D. C. -FRIDA.Y, E*F 1, 1916. ONE CE"T
TERROR REIGNS
AS VILLA FIGHTS
FORCHIHUAHUA
Battfe Rages in Streets of City
for Four Days,- Refugees
Declare.
RnT AMCM FL
Fate of Those Left Behind in Doub
Ba-dit Chief Controls
the Town.
(my the intsensamma News Servies.)
El Paso. Tex., Nov. 3.-Tales of four
days and nights of heavy fighting and
terrorim in the streets of Chihuahua
City at the end of which the Carranitas
foramc were routed by Villistas, iath
**Pancho" Villa at their head were
brought to the border today by the rem
nants of the Carransa army that reached
Juares shortly after noon. The ragged
and disorganized band of Carranasistas are
encamped on the plains south of Juares
tonight and the hospitals of the city
are filled with the wounded.
The troop trains also brought between
forty and fifty American refugees, but
theya se~ iunable to say whether any of
their eur'ymen had been killed in the
tightumg i. Cnihuahua City. It is said.
however, that a number of civilians in
Cahuahua City were shot down.
Ne Oraulsed Killing.
All of the refugees agreed that there
had been no arganized killing of foreign
ers up to the time they leit and several
told of Villa having shot dowh two of
his own men in order to stop looting of
the stores of the besieged city.
it is admitted by Carranza ofileers
reaching Juares with the fleeing army
that Villa Is in complete control of the
city. but General Gonzales at Jmkrus
military headquarters, says he has ad
vice, that General Osuna is In battle
with a Villista force at Nombre Do Dios,
northwest of Chihuahua City. The refu
gees confirmed the report that at the
time of the rout the Carranza army was
split and what was left made its escape
partly to the north and partly to the
south.
By some of the refugees General Tre
wino, the defeated military leader at Chi
huahua City. is placed with his battered
army at Aldans. about twenty miles
from Chihuahua City. Other reports are
that he Is at Hacienda Dolores, west of
the city.
Vila in ChihuahMa.
Villa was seen in Chihuahua City on
oeday morning by some of the refa
6 He was wal without cruteheam
one man said, as if to Inspire his men
with his hardthood, and looked thinner
than In the earlier part of his campaign.
His muetache has been cut off.
It is the claim of the defeated Carran
zistaa In Juarez that they were in com
mand of the situation in the first four
days of the fighting. but t a my that
because of lack of ammunitich they were
obliged on the Afth day to give up the
city. The flight of the Carransistas
started with the taking of Santa Rosa
Hill. the key positian to the city. The
lose of this point in blamed on Gen. Gon
sales Crueller. in comnrmand there, who
allowed the infantry lines to be weak
ened. The start at the VIlista artillery
action from the hill was the signal for
disorganized fitght, refugees say.
Some of the heaviest fighting took
place between the' cemetery and Santa
Rosa Hill and there the groundsa strewu
with dead, many of them haV ng been
killed in the first days of the battle.
Looting is said to have started when
Villa ordered two drug stores broken
into to obtain medlcing for his wounded
but this the rebel leaddr quickly stopped
by shooting down two of his own men
caught entering another store.
iEORhE1WN STUDENT
ANT BY POLIEMAN
John Kane. of Boston, Perhaps Fatally
Wounded in Alexandria.
John Kane, of Boston. about 25
years @Wd, said to be a student in
Georgetown University. was shot and
perhaps fatally wounded early this morn
ing by Policemsan Joon Kern, in Alex
andria.
The shooting occurred shortly before
1 o'clock and, according to Kerns, re
sulted from an attempt on the part of
four compantbs of Kane to effect his re
lese after Kerns had arrested him as a
disorderly person.
Kerns fired three shots, one of which
penetrated Kane's back near the right
lank. Kane is In the Alesandria Hospi
tal in a precarious condition.
The five men. it is charged, were cre
ating a djsturbance at Washington and
St. Asaph streets when Policeman Kerns
interferred. He says he had taken Kane
a block from the scene of the distur
bance when one of the four men follow
ing then struck him and Kane broke
away.' The shooting followed.
Copenhagen. Nov. S.-Super-Dread
nought -war submarines are now being
operated by Gerinany. Fishermen report
seeing German U-boats that appeared to
be feet in length. Some of these sub
marines gre blgger than'the merchant
slip, they sink.
U-30AT SINES TER TRAWWR
Leandam Nov. 38.-A German submsarine
rided the Brerham flshing fleet on Tue.
dsy snking three British trawlers, so
eeshiug to a Ijeyds dispatch today.
The submzarine is reported to have
befled the ether vessel, of the fleet.
The crews of the destroyed trawler.
were mawed.
Dertin, via wireless New. se.-As
aeal to the German peesie to de aRl
in their power to provide the Gerfmaai
treepe in the Seld with sufflent Sght-1
lag '1natariaja was issued today by Gen.
woe Stein. 'the new min=Mger of war. It
eame just at tha time the Reiehte
had taken g the p gegs hee
"ESOWED 07;" PAYS 7E,
Baltimore. Nov. 3.-Just to show his
gir how strong he was. James 0. Brods.
17 years old, lnt night raised the tau&s
used as a protection for pedestrians, at
the Lafarette avenue crossing of the
Philadelphia. Washington and Baltimore
Raiload. A passenger train came along
at that time and, accerding to the agent
at the crossing, three men narrowly
escaped being struck by the train.
Brown wals arrested and this morning
was Aned 81 and costs by Justice BrendW
at the Northwestern pollee station. ,
CITY CELEBRATES
Capital Give/Thanks at Altar
and Fireside.
It was a glorious Thanksgiving!
Washington observed it in the morning
by attending church, in the afternoon
by watching an automobile race and a
football game, and in the evening at a
score of receptions and dinners.
Clear skies and just enough keenness
in the air to give a touch of early win
ter 4ombined to make the day ideal in
weather.
Around fireside altars in homes of the
Capital. family parties gathered, the
thoughts of many resting upon their indi
vidual blessings and deploring, with the
nation's Chief Executive.,"the struggles
and suffering of the peoples at war."
To turn from that picture to the one
of peace, prosperity and contentment at
home was urged In the sermons of many
pastors in Washington churches.
Religion and philanthropy met in per
fect arch, for while thousands attended
spiritual services, as many others were
the guests of charity around mission
boards.
Several thousand Washingtonians jour
neyed out to Benning race track to wit
ness the first auto race of the season,
while the largest crowd in ifBany years
went out to the Hilltop to see George
town triumph over George Washington
t'niversity in the city's gridiron classic.
President Wilson spent Thanksgiving
quietly with his family and took no pad
in numerous special celebrations to which
he was invited. He attended church with
Mrs. Wilson In the morning, and In the
evening was at a ball given for the
benefit of the Navy Relief Society at the
Washington Navy lard.
In the asylums. the hospitals and cor
rectional institutions there was cause
CONTINCED ON PAGE THREE.
MILADY'S NEW BOOTS
TO BE ALL REVEALING
That Is, Unless Skirts Come Down to
Lowered Tops.
(By the Iaternatiamal News Servi&e.)
London, Nov. 30.-The high-topped boot,
which has kept just about an inch ahead
of the high-water skirt during the upward
trend of the fashions in late years, Is
doomed.
Down will come the boot to the 1m or
thereabouts model. and in all human
probability the skirt will come down, too.
for obvious reasons-reasons which have
been becoming more and more obvious of
late years.
And here again ye have the effect of
the war on fashions. Tbe.leather short
age has practically invaded milady's
boudoir and snatched away her duckiest
pair of high-topped boots. Hereafter If
same of the shining lights of the govern
ment have their way the shoe top will
climb not higher than the feminine ankle.
So serious has the -demand for leather
for war uses become that the high-topped
boot has been dragged by the button. so
to speak, before the court of public opin
ion In the house of commons and its doom
Is sealed.
It is learned today that the government
has taken up the question of women
using an unnecessary amount of leather
In their boots with the National Union of
Boot and Shoe Operatives.
An investigation is now under way.
U. S. ON FINANCIAL JAG,
SAYS PATRICK CUDAHY
Packer Declares Abnormal Food Prices
Are Not Justified.
(my the laternatielial News Servige.)
Chicago, Nov. 30.-America is on- a
financial spree and the high cost of
llvl* is the result, according to Patrick
Cudahy, the packer, who was In Chicago
today.
"The country Is intoxicated; the,
abnormal prices prove it,' he said. "All
food stuffs are too high. Not unless
America was down to its last supply
would the present prices be justified.
We ought to be packing hogs at 7 1-A
cents instead of 14 and 11 cents now.
The receipts at the big livestock centers.
already large, would be even greater it
cars for moving the stock to markei
were available. It looks as if strong men
were holding up the market by making
large purchases.'
DIETERSTIURXEYIZS.
ChIcago, Nov. 30.-Wouldn't you like to
be on the diet squad today-no t key,
plum pudding or'hot mince pie?
Health Comnelo=tner Robertson's diet
era lived on a skimped and cut menu for
a week. hoping that they were being
tralned down for a whaling big turkey
feast today, but it now appears that the
6 1-3 cents saved'- daily for each person
was sacriniced on the altar of eeonomy.
At any rate, the eaters sat down to roast
chicken Instead of gobbler today, and
they didn't like it. a bit.
Conco -'N. HL., Nov. M.-PresIdent
Wilson's plurality in New iwaplmz'e has
been reduced from 63 to 66 by crrected
figures. Six votes were added to Ruahes'
total in uManhee and Proten, The
reecst, asked by RepeMblian., will begin
Mesober 4.
iandon, Nov. 3.-Three hundreg per
sswere killed and much Piiperty -
ag. caused by a cyckit atPe ~
-.rl s
U.S. TIES HAMDS
OF BORDER ARMY
Pershing Ordered to Fight
Only if Villa Makes Attack.
The 4.000 United States troops now
stationed in the vicinity of El Paso.
Texas, will not be pesmitted to cross
Into Mexico In an effort to catch
"Pancho" Villa no matter how close the
bandit leader may venture to the inter
national boundary.
Instructions have been sent to Gen.
John J. Pershing. commanding the ex
pedition encamped at Casas Grandes, to
hold him force. inactive unless Villa
should approach and actually effer battle.
These orders will prevail at the War
Department until changed by Instruc
tidons from the White House.
The status of Gen. Pershing troops
and the border forces was obtained yes
terday from an authority whiph can
not he questioned. Until now the in
pression has prevailed that should Villa
lead an attack en Juares. acros the
Rio Grande from El Paso, or pursue
Gen. Trevino. the Carransa commander.
to Ojinaga an effort would be made to
capture him and carry out the original
purpise of the Pershing expedition.
The War Department officials stil.
credit the unofficial reports that Chi
huahua City or a greater part of the
northern capital fell Into the hands of
V&lla on Monday afternoon of this week.
Officialreports are still lacking.
'o Represena of the government In
official communication with the Amert
can members of the Mexican commi,
sion predicted yestefday that First Chief"
Carransa would not ratify the tentatv6
protocol signed at the last session of
the Atlantic City conference. A not@
from Carransa raising new issues be
tween the two governments is expecteu
as soon as the abinet meeting called
at Queretaro shall have been held.
The American members of the cdmmis
slon are known to have expressed the
opinion that the Mexicans were not
sincere in their demand for the im
rrediate recall of (en. Pershing. The.
advantage to the Carransa government
of having American troops in the dis
I turbed district is now greater than at
any previous time.
EVANGELIST ARRESTED
AS SLAVE RING HEAD
Street Exhorter'Said to Have Confess
ed When Girls Accused.
(By the Internatieaal News Servise.)
Joliet, Ill., Nov. 3.-Levi H. Ballou. a
street evangelist. today was further
questioned by agents of the Federal De
portment - of Jessine regarding him 4a
leged confession that he was head of one
of the largest ",white slave" rings inI
the country.
Ballou was arrested following dia
covery that Frances and Mildred Hughes,
14 and 17 had been brought here by him
from Belding, Mich. The girls told the
police they had lived in a cheap lodging
house and for a week had subsisted upon
bread and water.
Ballou, it is charged, picked his
victims from girls who listened to his
open air talks. He first interested them
in his religious teachings, then lured
them away. He is said to have admitted
to several such cases and to have said
that the clearing house of the gang
was in St. Louis.
INDIANA MAYORS PLAN
WAR ON lii PRICES
Municipalities to Sell Coal and Food
stufs at Cost.
(By the Iateraatieaml News Servie.)l
Indianapolis. N . 2.-A concerted at
tack on the high cost of living by In
diana mayors was proposed today by
Mayor Ben Bosse, of Evansville.
If individual' action by municipalities
falls as he thinks possible, Bosse will
call a conference. He will visit Indiana
polis and Chicago Monday and Tuesday
in an effort to buy several carloads of
potatoes and cabbage to be sold In a
municipal market.
Mayor James Gossom. of Terre Haute,
announced the lease of fifty acres of
land near the city which can be oper
ated as a strip mine to provide coal
for the newly established city coal mar
ket.
In several other cities of the State
mayors are planning to establish city
coal markets or food shops.
WILL PAY FOR B00nRSDUK.
Amsterdam. Nov. 20--Germany has de
glared to the Dutch government her wil- I
lingness to pay damages for the steamer
Bloomerdik and her grain cargo. The
balace of the cargo is to be submitted
to a prize court. The Bloomersdijk was'
sunk off Nantucket.
MECMANICIAN KTTI IN RACE.
Phoenix, Aris.. Nov. 3S-Mechsnticin
Drennan was killed almost instantly in,
an automobile race ihere this afternoon
when It. B. Armstrongs machine plunged
into the fence while trying to pass an
other car. Armstrong was hurt.
Berlin (vla Bayvillgwlrelaess), Nov. a.
Grand Admiral von Tirpits, in a tel..
gram acknowledging his nominatiom as
an honorary member of the German
ravy association, pleads for a more pow
[erful navy. He declares that unlesm Ger
many obtains a position- giving her equal
rights with the other powers of the werte
"German life will he dwarted and per
inh."
J0TED TUEEKAN DIE.
Baltimore. led., Mov. 9.-Capt.. Willie
F. Presgrave, noted trsaand g.e
mnB is dead at Sheme nar
natairy Md. dem l aM
asue heart esea. Re teas U et
Prein h tile United States and Camn
ad. thet Wheas h+t. h..w ase.2
mnthem capt. Pessgrave. Hes handisd
ette alan lk
Pbishepd by opbdmet
In' connectiom with the ataioa
Iwide -mil-early" ea lm the
local post o1e hag issued asobed-.
ule for mailinr from Waemitmpo.
for delivery on Satuaeday, D....
ber 3. During the holdasy ratih
extra time hould be allowed. The
schedule:
California and the West and
Southwest --..............Dec. 16
Itte.ia Iowa, and t other
States of the Middle West.Dec. 18
Southern States ..............Dec. 18
hw ungland States.........Dec. 18
New York, Pen N. J.,
Ohio. Ind.. and ucky.Dec. II
Virginia, Md.. W. Va., N. C.
and I. C --...............Dec. is
WASHINGTON,D C., Dec. is, 2, a
NAVY SEIZES ISLE
Proclaims Military Govern
ment in San Domingo.
The Navy Department made the fol
lowing antdouncement yesterday:
Capt. H. S. Knapp. in command of the
United States forces in San Domingo, re
ports that in coinpliance with instrue
tions received, military government was
Proclaimed by him In San Domingo at
4 P. m. November 29.
"An order regarding carrying arms or
having them in possession has been in
effect. Payment of salaries of govern
ment officials will be resumed imme
diately.
"The proclamation was well received.
onditions are reported as being normal
and the great majority of the people re
gard the proclamation with favor." ,
It was declared authoritatively at the
Navy Department that there Is no other
significance in the proclamation of mili
tary government in San Domingo than
appeared in the department's formal
statement. No' more marines will be
sent to the island, it was said. as the
force already thert- in sufficient to main
ain order and effect the establishment of
wermanent good government.
Denial was made of a report that Sen
Domingo's indebtedness and that coun
ty's relations with European powers,
notably France, have influenced the
American policy toward San Domingo.
TelegraphT
London. Nov. 30.-British csaualdse dir
Ing November were 74.4W o W S.
- d cers. it was mtuice today.
.is shows a marked falling off from Oc
tobet, when the daily averge was 3.49
November's daily average is 2.436.
Melbourne, Australia, Nov. 30.-Several
thousand miners who have been out on
strike for.several weeks will resume work
Monday. The coal strike was settled to
day.
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 30.-The body of
Thomas N. Nolan. of e'tw York, a dele
gate to the Building Trades Convention
just held here. and who died of pneu
mouia yesterday afternoon. wag today
taken back to New York, where the fu
nerel will be held.
London, Nov. 30.-Gen. Dracon, Greek
ninister of war, is reported to have re
signed, and then succeeded by GeL Has
zopoulos. according to a Reuter dispatch
from Athens.
Wolcott. Kan.. Nov. 30.-A Missouri Pa
cific passenger train carrying college stu
dents en route to the Missouri-Kansas
football game at Lawrence this afternoon
collided head-on with a freight train here
today. Two persons were seriously in
jured.
Baltimore. Md., Nov. 30.-Today being a
holiday and with all the big clothing
manufacturing plants closed the situation
In the strike of pants makers of the
Amalgamated Clothing Workers of Amer
Ica was quiet.
White Plains. N. Y., Nor. -30.-A kiss
from a bride of two we * stolen
at that-Is worth j AM s the
price set upon it by alk hea Xeno
phon Kusmier was the miscreent. Mrs.
Julia Nish said Kusmier forcibly stole
one of her kisses. She sued.
London, Nov. 30.-Nine resolutions deal
Ing with peace will be introduced at the
annual conference of the labor party
which will open in Manchester on Jan
uary 28.
San Salvador. Republic of Salvador (via
Galveston, Tex.). Nov. 30.-Senor don San
tago Ignacio Barberena, for meny years
director of the National Astronomical.
Observatory in this city, and perhaps the
best known astronomer of Central Amer
Isa, is dead at his residence in this capi
tal.
Philadelphia. Pa., Nov. 30.-This is the
banner "marrying year." for, according
to records in the marriage license bur
eau, 17,245 licenses have been granted so
far, 1, 0 above the total for 191L.
VIUiWIJUSNAVAL I'OLICYi
PLANEDDY JELLICE
Ney First a Lor Hoe to Encj
UBet enaCe.
( the Inter'natieala News geivi.
ma don, Nov. 20.-A more vigorous
al pouiey is to follow the shake-up in
& Bitittadmraly.The changes re
----- fmm riicsmof the adamhyaty's
oeuct of the war wanich was daily get
Umore bitter.
Admitral Sir John P. Jiellicoe, the
me frst sea lord of the admntralty, Is ax
to~ g take steps very sos. to end
G ernnsubmnarime menes. The perils
o~tish shipping which hae br'embt
b*asearcity Ofoet fa. have
gpe he anstety -throeet the
L iSir Davesstty, the mew es.
er of the British asia Sleet. 1st
- as a mant of lileti and geat
-de kaam
seMi .1 a pases
*UUC PRINER
FOR PHER WAGE
Comelius Ford Joins Employes
in Campaign.
Cornelis Ford, head of the Govern
ment Printing Ofice. list night declared
that he supported the movement to have
the employes of the government organise
for better working Conditions and stated
that he favored increased wages for un
derpeid Feieral employes.
"I am certainly In favor of having the
employes organize if It will help their
condition." he said.
' U my department, perhaps there are
maw,' cases of men and women who are
underpaid, but statutory limitations make
It impossible for me to better the exist
lag scale. If they can better it them
selves, I am for them.
"I am also for 4ncreased wages. The
cost of living has reached the point
where higher pay is necessary. If thefe
In anything I can do to get I will aid
the movement."
Superintendent Ford said that he could
Lot disclose tih-Increases in compensation
which he had recommended in his depart
mental estimates now being conside by
the Committee on Appropriations or the
House. It is known, however, that he
has made recommendations for Increases
in pay for several hundred employee at
the Government Printing Oflee.
During the administration of Super
intendent Ford the wages of electricions,
machinists. plumbers, stea tters, car
penters and painters have been advanced
to the union scale paid outside workers.
Officials of the Federal Employes
Union yesterday directed their atten
tion to Informing locals affiliated with
the A. F. of L. of the movement that
CONTINUED ON PAGE TREE.
BOYS FIND REVOLVER;
ONE AT DEATl'SDOOR
Willis Furey. 12. Accidentally Shot by
Eugene Van Kuren. 13 years Old.
Twelve-year-old Willis Furey, son of
Chief Gunner Edwin W. Furey, U. S. N..
was brought to Washington yesterday
from the Naval Reservation at Belieview
Magazine with a forty-eight caliber bul
let wound in his abdomen, said to have
been inflicted by a 13-year-old cousin
while the boys were at play Wednesday
afternoon. The Furey boy was near
.eath last night in Providence Hospital.
His parents were at his bedside.
Willis and his cousin. Eugene Vani
Kuren, of New York. were playing on
he second floor of the hene Uein thef'
tiscovered a service revolver. Whie
Eugene was examining the weapon it ex
ploded and the ball entered Wilis' abdo
men just below the chest.
The Van Kuren boy summoned help.
Physicians hold out hope for the boy's
recovery.
Beliview Magazine is an eighty-nine
acre gun-testing tract about seven miles
down the Potomac. Its chief use is as
a naval storage plant. Mr. Furey is chief
caretaker.
ALAS! TIMES CIANGE;
BIG GAME UNTOASTEDi
Football Classic No Longer Followed
by Rough-house Cafes.
Times have chbnged.
No longer do the college youths gather
in their favorite cafes to celebrate theI
victory of their team after a big foot
ball game. and no more does their exuber
ance cause a hurried call for the police
reserves. Nor do they roam the streets
in rival bands which meet and break each
other's hats, or worse.
Georgetown beat George Washington
yesterday in the biggest game of the local
seasdn. But with the game ended all
enthusiasm. as far as old time celebra
tions down-town were concerned
A few years back Washingtons lead
Ing cafes were crowded on Thanksiving!
night with hundreds of students, and ol-'
lege yells and fights followed each other
in swift succession.
Last night a trip to the same cafes
revealed no hilarious crowds, in fact,
nothing that could be called a crowd at
all-only the usual number of regular
patrons.
Times have changed,
MARIE HA LITTLE PIGEON.
Waynesburg, Pa.. Nov..* I.-Mary of
child lore fame had a .little lamb that
followed her to school. Marie Baer. of
Kirby. has gone her predecessor one bet
ter and is accompanied to and from
school every day by her pet pigeon.
When its little mistress leaves for school
the bird flies along with her.
Throrghout the entire day it remainS
prched inside or outside the building.
BOMB WRECKS TRUE HNOES
Chicago. Nov. M.-Three homes were
wrecked and a score of families driven
into the street early today. when a bomo
wr exploded in the hallway of a six
story apartment house In fron( of the
loor of Joseph Armstronag.
Armstrong is prs tof e of the
local enoving pIerE' oper rs unlome
wrhich have been at war ter months.
New York, Nov. f.--The body of a
womann who threw heresit ader an ele
rated train at the Nnet)t street sta
tion lnst nIght was unnaie today an
Mrs. Frieda Enagelbeer, S, et Congsbla,
Pa. The woman was &led hasantly and
lir body wedged under the foretrucks of
the traIn, tImIng up traffic for alnost
three hours.
ACTRE 1 1A3a.
~Itinsre, Md.. Nw. t. -isPauline
nlm~9ty, 21yW r a.w wh has bees...
aetress since she was 14 yars a. was
Isarried here tonight te Chaln Yce, 3U
veniw aid, a Chiasna Ut Doet.
.s Siene wss ya hbs
NahvIne, TmAL., Nov. ,-UNbn of
flelie of the Nashvile. CmaeO- Snd
St. Louis Ilway grat the tuw -
Oeoiw iasked by the -ebera t "es
"e F..r" brotherhood. mplad by th
comany a strike Immediately w0 be
called. according to satennants by local
brotherbood leaders he toda,. Betwen
A and I per cent of t. .. have voted
for the strike, it was aeunced.
It Is reported that J. A. Wadden -Eig
of strike breakers" is in Nashville.
HATCHETITESLOSE
Georgetown Smothers Down
town Eleven.
George Washington's gritty football
team went down before Georgetown Uni
versity yesterday afternoen, by a score of
47 to 7.
IAke the cinnamon bear, who with
softened feet stealthily crawls froom out
his cold mountain cave, gives his sting
to the bear-root and then again retires
until the frost has left the ground, so
did George Washington University's
gridiron eleven come out of a six yeatr'
retirementf present its sting in the shape
of a touchdown against Georgetown's
powerful warriors, and than retire from
the field defeated, but not disgraced.
Thanksgiving Day in the Nation's Capi
tal. is Thanksgiving Day, but it loses
some of Its significance without a big
football classic being staged on the Hil
top. For years Georgetown and George
Washington were the principals in this
annual holiday event. but six years ago.
the downtown university practically an
nulled everything in the sporting line,
with a result that in athletics the school
had vanished. to oblivion.
But. better tes ere coming. Fully
determihed to give vent to that sport
ing strain -which flowed in the veins of
a majority of the classes, it was de
cided to start with an eleven. While the
record of Tom Sullivan's charges has
not been anything. to enthuse over, It
nevertheless has proved that that great
est of all requirements to place a col
lege on the athletic map-college spirit.
which takes in college support sad Will
ingness--were there. with the result that
the Hatchetites are once more in the
sporting limelight.
It was hardly to be expected that
George Washington would win from
(X)NTIU) ON PAGE TWKLVE.
ARlHNLD NEAR END
TRANSFISION1IED
Standard Oil Eecutive Likely to Die
Before Morning.
(my the ternmatmm Nes Ia-9dlin.)
New York. Nov. 2.-John D. Archbold,
president of the Standar Oil Company
of New Jersey, was rep(- d tonight to
be dying in his palatial home in Tarry
town.
Four blood transfusion operations were
resorted to by Dr. George E. Brewer to
day. One of the persons submitting to the
sacrifice was Mr. Archbolds' chauffeur.
Mrs. Archbold. in Ignorance of the ser
iousness of her husband's condition. is
with him. John D. Rockefeller today
abandoned his contemplated trip to
Lakewood that be might be at the side
of his colleague. William Rockefeller is
in constant telephonic communication
with the Archbold house.
Attaches of the Archbold household
confessed that the noted magnate was
not expected to survive the night.
With Mrs. Archbold constantly are her
daughter and son. devoting their time to
buoying the spirits of their mother.
Mr. Archbold was operated upon No
vember 21 for appendicitis., e became
ill on November 19.
Dr. Brewer declined tonight to comment
upon the condition of his noted patient.
SOLDIER PATIENT DIES
AlTER SWALlOWINi LYE
Walter H. Penly Ends Life at Walter
Reed Army Hospital.
W alter IL Penly, 34. a soldier at the
Walter Reed Army Hospital. endAd his
life last Wednesday by drinking a
quantity of lye that had been left within
his reach.
Penly was from North Carolina. and
relatives there were iotitied of his death
by hospital authorities. Corner Nevitt
has ordered an inquest, to be held at the
District morgue at 11 o'clock this morning
Little_ information could be obtained
at the hospital concerning Penly. and
it could not be learned what aliment the
man was suffering at the time of taking
the caustic which caused his death.
The lye was drunk shortly after 6
o'clock Wednesday morning, and Penly
died about 1 o'clock that night.
Relatives are expected to take the body
to North Carolina for Interment after
the inquest.
BURNED KAXTG "GHW8T."
Lo Angeles. Cal..Nov. 30.-While plan
ning to introduce an unexpected ghost
into a spiritualistic seance, Raymond
Dunson. :!l years old. was burned, proo
ably fatally, with phosphorus, and his
companion. Albert Ht. Brainard, 19 years
old, severely burned on the hands while
trying to extinguish the blase, ecording
to the police. Duinson is in the county
hoepital, while Brainardl was treated at
the receiving hospital.
New Cit-y N. 'T., Nov. I.--Ia ordering
Itoy L. Stevens, of Congers, to pay his
wifs U tnore a week~ter sarate support,
Pettes Justlee Hathaway. in Broeksburg,
yasterday virtually ruled that a wife is
aetteda to perfumne if she wishes it.
When Mrs. Stevens =a'hi for P in
stead of b'7 Stevens opposed her snotion.
He artued that she "Is wasting amoney
on perfumsery and other things to deli
herself up."
artile. Sp., l,~ .-Dehsi that a
teethbeu'J bristle lodging~ in his threat
hadedhpd hol hearrae, ajury
y ga irs dmmi A Eby
#,m satfo .
EJCHAREST EARS
HER GATES FOR
HGHT TO FUN
Women ad a( m Repat
ed Oderedo Le." y -
for Places of Smiety.
TOWN OF COmAmA FAIS
Tetems P" Lim es s W In Twais
Miles of Rmnmi" Capiers
Otet Defe.
<By th. E...----. -~m. -~2
Berlin via Sayville. w now. S.
-Bucharest, the Roam... em.an, in
changing into a war esma, the Over
seas News Agency lerns. Wo of the /
civil population. encordang to a diegate
to the Berner ,Bund already hs left the
capital.
The Lokal Anseiger pubis. a tsle
gram from Stockholm that the chief of
police of Bucharest, and Genaeal Berthe
Ilot, the French strategist with the RU
manian armies, have ordered the major
tty of the population. especiaDy woman
and children, to leave the precaues of
Bucharest fortress within give days. An
remaining persons are en=aed in qm
tary and sanitary duty. MOa law
prevails. the military authesies d11ri
buting all food.
The town of Cosmna (Tsessrn), half
way between Gilrgiu sad Bechaist, sit
uated on the direct railuhy connectinge
the two cities, at a point =k=t== mles
to the south of the ceSata1 has fallen
into Teuton hands. It lies only twelve
and one-half mile0 south of Bacharest's
outer ring of fortieontos. Its loss was
admitted by the Rnsian was omoe yes
terday.
Plia t Defend mGetat.'L
As the statomot covers Wed-endy-s
operations, it is sfo to assme that with
In the last twelve hoos tho forees of
Field Marshal von Maomasr... advaucng
on Bucharest from the south, have made
considerable further headway and that
the bombardment of the fortress will be
gin before noon today. 'ie Lokal An.
seiger's information that the civil popu
lation of Bucharest is givu ave days to
leave the fortress area aaieste. that the
capital will be defeada The nainrical
strength of the defenders in a smtter of
guess work but it in pusha * what
ever the U-.I-s- ased Me in iitn
1ery Iad'tinmeitas k Oe uemat re
vers n al Omin basi hem soes
lated to the espial for a dedime to the
'fnista.
True rier, rem in the asaamta=s
hands to entrench themasves ad retard
the Teuton tide-the Glaaie. Niaslow
and Arses. twenty-one, twelve. and eght
miles respectively, from Bucharest. Be
tween the Arges and the oer tes is a
rivulet, about five miles fri the capitaL
The Glavaceg position already has bee.
outfnanked. for Comman, vow is 'ls.
hands, lies live mies to the northat e
that river.
Meanwhile Gen. von Paikenhayfto assy.
sweeping down in the direction of Buchs.
rest from the northwest, is contimatog his
headlong advance. Cumpolung. the im
portant railway city not far south from
the Transylvanian foothills, have beae
captured In the last twenty-four hour.
Berlin announced.
Have rouht Gellantly.
Here a strung Rumlsan force has
been battling for weeks against staggWr
ing odds. eliciting repeated praise in the
German official reportsa. Its fall open,
the Toersburg paw to fresh Teuton re
enforcements and adds to the menace
facing the Rumanian troops still fight
Ing stubbornly in the Prahovo ens
Bueseu valleys.
Altogether the cembited forces of
Falkenhayn and Mackensen took in the
last twenty-four hours I,00 prisoners.
This small total strengthens the theory
that on the whole the Rumanians are
managing to make good their retreal
before the huge Teuton flanking move
ments can fulfill their chief mission.
which Is to trap large defending forcs
Th. booty recorded in the last German
war office statement and In a resume or
the operations furnished by the semi
offcial Overseas News Agency. of Berlin.
is considerably larger than that of the
initial German victories.
Berlin's official reports on the drive
toward Bucharest continue to be markea
by lack of details. Testerday afternoon's
statement merely said:
"The Danube army is advancing, fight
ing as It goes."
A hulletin issued late last night read:
."The situation in Rumania is un
changed and continues favorably for us."
WOEN fALL VIECTS
TO YIlA'S BANDII
Hundreds Attacked and Others Shot
Down in hihuahua.
t By the Iateemttimml News Ueim.b
San Antonio, Ter., Nov. 30.-inmm of
horror followed Pancho Villa's empter'e
of Claihuahua City, government egets re
pote today.
Via turned hin band ot kongy, bleed
therty sddies upen the helphse detlan
popuis-i- with pe~m to bet and
do as they plesmd. I Homirede of urmns
and young girls worn outzaged by the -
bandits in the streets, Others weu eht
end left to die whom they ammpan to
iee from their tormnentalg.
Villa captured 3, 0. Ome samms
and a number et onosa The esers
penitentiary and mowed ewa by re
men. The inuhatryma n t er te
Via in a body
FROVIDE 101 FANOW UEAM
RihVa.. Me'. B-U.C. B.
famens L anns M he messed a
tried fund of his a e ss for Se
bemodt of hs a th te shae
alIke. Amonig these b'mare Me.
IWilliam Waldorf Astor, of Bamena;~ s.
I harles Dana (Imsoe. ot Ne0w Ye; Mrs.
Marry Phappo. of Begsm, ed Ma. 9i
its Seete, whe dl5Wnd
and ta -m Sab
