m
> : ' ==~j ~
WEATHER. k ^ "|t?jf "From Press to Home '
Fair tonight arul tomorrow, without JI ^ M . ^ ^ ^ . M I \p (J 1
change; tempera- M ^^B I By^^ BJUfe ft yA H .... . .
ture tonight gentle M B A B^^M 3 Vf ^Hr ^1 B Wf B V B B \^BT B1 , 1 \; Within the HoUT
moderate J B B ^1 ^^B B B B B B B B B B \ B L(^^|f
Temperature I . I B ^^B B B B B^ ~B B B B B B B B 0\ B c!z3
ending 2 p.m.: Highest. 52. at 4 p.m. I J B B B^ .B B B B B B B B B B fl B. B B ' !
yesterday: a.m. today. B S ^B .^^Blm ?
' N I B ^ I ^ ^ yTI r / V f ?won? Wet Circulation. Mrath of Oetoter.
( LOS|X(. fflW lOHK STOCKS PAKE 34. V_ V V /l^ W' ?> ** "* *?" *?. 7M?1| ?.??.., 5>M>Tl.
WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1916.?TWENTY-EIGHT PAGES. ONE CENT.
MARINA MISTAKEN
FOR A TRANSPORT
German Submarine Commander
Reports to His Governl
ment on Sinking of Ship.
BERLIN READY TO SETTLE
The Herman submarine . i.minajider
"who sunk thy British horsy ship Marina
with the loss of six Americans, has reported
to his g-overnmeiit that he took
the vessel for a transport. Germany
has asked the United States for information
of the statu.- of the ship and is
ready to offer amends if the Marina
was entitled to immunity.
It Is understood that if the United
States can inform Germany that the
Marina was not in the British transport
" service and was entitled to the immunities
of a peaceful merchant ship, the
Berlin government is ready to acknowledge
an error and make offers of
settlement satisfactory to the United
states.
Looks Personally Alter Case.,
President "Wilson has been looking
alter th? case personally and will pass
upon any understanding reached between
the. ambassador and the Secretary
of State.
'When the Marina was sunk it was
stated from London that there was
some ground for believing she had been
previously connected with the British
transport service. I.a lex dispatches
said the ship had been armed with a
astern manned by two British
naval gunners before she started on
the voyage on which she was dest
royed.
Th?* Marina had carried a cargo of
horses to England from Newport News.
Va., and was returning whe.n two submarines
lying in wait sunk Iter in a
stormy sea, from which survivors were
rescued after many hours of hardship.
Relations Are Threatened.
In Its last note to Germany on the
submarine question the United States
threatened to break off diplomatic relations
unless the campaign of destruction
without warning was
aoanaonea. Anotner note uecmreu mat
offers of reparation and expressions of
regret would not be sufficient, but did
not actually close the door to accepting
a* admission of error and inlemnity
for damage in any specific
case Ttfhera the American government
might choose to deal with it in that
way.
The case was discussed today at a
conference between Count von Bernstorff,
the German ambassador, and
Secretary Lansing. Germany, in a
communication in reply to the inquiries
of the United States, has asked for
any information in possession of this
government that will lead to a settlement.
The conference between the ambassador
and the Secretary of State, which
wis brief, developed that neither
seemed to be in possession of such
complete information as would be essential
to a determination of the case.
The conference was asked for by Count
Bernstorff.
GIVES GERMAN VIEWPOINT
ON U-BOAT TREATMENT
CHRISTIAN I A. Norway, December 1,
via London.?The Dagbladet today published
an Interview with Herr
Miohaelis, German minister to Norway.
outlining Germany's point of
view on the submarine controversy
with Norway. The minister says, in
part:
"Germany cannot tolerate ajiy spe?ial
treatment of war and merchant
submarines by neutrals. Norway is
the sole neutral which by special instruct
ions has conveyed the impression
of adopting the view of the entente.
"Germany is remitted |,y international
law to defend herself with ail
h*?r powers against Norwegian ships
carrying contraband which prolongs
the war, and the recent food crisis
in flri-at Hritafn T-Vj PmcdU
have shown that Germany is on the
right path. Germany will not be de
prived of the sharp weapon she possessed
in the submarine. On the other
hand. Germany will always respect
Norway's really difficult position, and
the most v. - expect of really independent
Norway is that she does not treat
German warfare arid German economic
problems differently than those
of the enemy."
PRESIDENT TO BE GUEST
IN NEW YORK TOMORROW
Occasion Is Inauguration of New Illumination
for Statue
of Liberty.
President Wilson will lf;,ve here at
30 o'clock tomorrow morning for New
York t? he present at the inauguration
of a new illuminating system for
the Statue -of Liberty late tomorrow
afternoon. He will arrive in New Vork
at 3:18 p.m. and leave again for Washington
at midnight, arriving in Washington
at 7 o'clock Sunday morning.
On his arrival in N?-w York tomorrow
afirri.oon the l'r?-sident will be
met bv a reception rommittee and
taken ir; an automobib to the 79th
street landing on the Hudson river, to
go on hoard the naval yarht Mayflower.
The Mayflower will pass between the
iStat ie of T,ibcrty and a line of battleships,
followed by the Dolphin, carrying
Secretary Daniels, members of the
cabinet and ofh?-r special guests.
At 6 o'clock * he President will operate
a searchlight siKnal by wireless,
inaugurating the lighting of the statue.
Afterward the President w ill take part
In an automobile parade from the Battery
to a New York hotel for a banquet,
where lie is expected to deliver a
brief address.
JUBILATION IN GERMANY.
Change in Command of Britifh Fleet
Commented on by Papers.
1XMSDON. Decemlsjr 1.?The changes in
the British admiralty have been greeted
with Jubilation by the German newspapers.
according to an Amsterdam dispatch
to neuter's. The Cologne Ixikal Anzeiger
declares that Admiral JelUeoe's removal
from the fleet is degradation for losing
the battle of Jutland and that the inefficiency
oi the fleet Is shown by the fact
that German ships attacked the east coast
of ?11 gland and never saw anything of
< British ships.
*
BRYAN IS INVITED
TO WHITE HOUSE
I
? i
President Asks Former Se'cre- j
tary of State to Be Lunch- j
eon Guest.
iVISITOR IN CAPITAL TODAY!
! 'President Wilson today invited Wili
liam J. Bryan to take luncheon with
l him December G, at the White House.
Mr. Bryan is to attend a dinner here
that evening" to be given in his honor
by democratic members of The .Senate
and House. The President has been invited.
but has not yet accented.
Mr. Bryan today attended a luncheon
given in his honor by Secretary Daniels.
The usual Friday cabinet meetj
nig" was canceled to permit members of
j the cabinet and Secretary Tumulty to
j attend.
Goes on South Tonight.
All. Bryan came here from New York
; this morning, accompanied by Mrs.
Bryan. He went to the Hotel Lafuv- .
i |
j ette, where he was soon besieged by j
| friends and visitors. Mr. and Mrs. j
Bryan will leave lor Asnevuie at .
o'clock this evening, thence to Raleigh,
J returning to Washington Wednesday. j
Wednesday evening he is to be given ;
I a dinner at the Hotel Lafayette, upon i
: which occasion he will, it is expected, j
| make a political announcement of in - [
i terest. Senators Ash hurst. Vardamati j
. and Hollis are in charge of the dinner j
[arrangements and Cotter T. Hri/ie will
! issue the tickets for the occasion.
j
To Be Frequent Visitor.
"1 expect to be a frequent visitor to I
Washington during the next fifteen or,
twenty years if 1 live that long," said :
.Mr. Bryan today. "J am interested in j
national and international politics, j
more so than ever before, if possible.
.Vsheville has many atractions. It is I
beautifully situated in the Blue Itidge j
; mountains, the climate is salubrious J
1 and the mountain peaks present a mag- j
nificent view. But our chief reason for;
! locating there is that It is near Wash- }
j ington.
"Lincoln. Neb., will remain our home,:
as it has been for twenty-nine years, j
We shall spend a part of the year there, j
and that part will include election day.
. i . i ii n-v. . e i. f
1 .-5IIU.; i ? Vic inn r. iiit navi witc Ul> nuiil'
life is the severest penalty that one has
to pay for being- in politics. By spend- j
ing the summer1 in AshevIIle 1 can re- ;
main at home more and yet be near
enough to come to Washington when it
is desirable to do so.
"I secured a building site several years j
ago. near Ashcville, of ten acres, on top :
of a little mountain which rises .",00 feet j
at>ove the city. We shall build there next
| spring, and the name selected for our !
Asheville home is Mount Calm.''
Plans Political Activity.
"What is your present attitude toward
politics?" Mr. Bryan was asked.
"I shall be active," he answered in a
significant tone and with a broad smile.
"Along what lines'."'
"At the dinner which I will attend,
December 6, J shall discuss some of the
great questions which seem to be ready
j for settlement."
MORGAN CALLS OFF SALE
OF THETREASURY BILLS
'
I Action Due to the Federal Reserve
Beard's Warning to
Bankers.
i
i i
i XKW YORK, December 3.?J. f\ Mor
i gan & Go. have withdrawn the pro- ;
posed sale of British and French treasury
hills, according to instructions received
by them from abroad.
The announcement was contained in
the following statement:
"We have been instructed by the
British and French governments to
withdraw their treasury bills from
sale.
"We have accordingly expressed to
those institutions and investors which
had already placed orders with us for
the.^e securities the wish to be released
from the obligations to deliver, and
they have been good enough to accede.
"This action is because, as explained
by the British chancellor of the ex- I
chequer and by the French minister of
finance, these governments desire to
show every regard to the federtil reserve
board, a governmental body of i
which the Secretary of the Treasury
and the comptroller of currency are '
ex-officio members.
"We may add that the sale in limited
amount of thes? treasury bills, payable
t in New York, has ro-veY been an es-en
I' i;il Prill ?M in*- IIIIICU'C
financial plana, but havi tor s??nie tim?*
b'-eti under consideration. with a v>.w ;
t.o furnishing a credit medium that
would accommodate the American
1 banking demands for an instrument of
short maturity and of HU'-h limited
j volume that the government could al
ways undertake to lay down gold In
i New York sufficient to meet the rnaI
i ured bills. |
"It was be lie ve?l further that these bills .
i would have furnished at the end of the j
1 war an excellent measure of protection
to the American financial situation inas- j
much as these steadily maturing obliga
tions of the foreign governments would
i haw tended to prevent heavy drafts of
. Kold from this market."
j An informal statement was made by a
1 member of the Morgan company that no
other financial plans have been formulated
in place of the ones abandoned.
I
John Hays Hammond Becovering-.
BALTIMORE. Md.. December 1.?John
Hays Hammond, the mining engineer,
who has been 111 of sloinuch trouble for a
day or two, at his apartment in a hotel
here, was reported to be much better this
morning His secretary Mr. fiamii
ond probably would go out this afternoon.
! ___________
Conservation
of Paper
Every citizen is called upon to see
that not a pound of paper Is wusted.
Demand trow every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages
be dispensed with.
If you have no further uso for today's
newspaper save it for the
school children s playground fund.
'all Main COllo and ask for the
"nearest- public schocl t?> your I; ?.m-;
end the old * <?.rs be se?i fu.. '
SAYS TOR BARREL'
AIDER DEMOCRATS
"Uncle Joe" Cannon Attributes
Political Cyclone in Part to
Liberal Appropriations.
PAYING BILLS A PROBLEM
"f guess that the pork barrel helped.'*
said "I'ncle Joe" Cannon, just back in
Washington for the coming session of
Congress, when a Star reporter asked
him about the recent political cyclone.
"T sOairtt nrii/inulitv fnp (hu idpn
1 got it from the frank confessions of
distinguished senators when The river
and hafbor hill was under consideration
in the Senate, one western senator
boasting" that he had secured appropriations
amounting to $0,500,000 for
disbursement in his state, which had
paid only $350,000 in taxes to the federal
government. You see, while you
newspaper men here in the east were
denouncing Congress for pork barrel
legislation there are a lot of people in
other parts of th?- country who consider
appropriations the most important
function of Congress.
"This democratic Congress holds the
record for big appropriations, with
more than $ 1,025,000,000 for one year,
and enough authorizations to make
necessary bigger appropriations in the
future.
"The people who realized that Congress
was appropriating money which
they paid in taxes voted against the
administratiqn as extravagant, but the
people who had no evidence that they
contributed to the federal Treasury
looked upon the administration a:; a
benevolent institution. It is all in the
way one looks at what you boys liave
called pork-barrel legislation. The
government collected three-fifths of all
its internal revenues, three-fourths of
its emergency revenues, two-thirds of
the corporation tax and five-sixths of
the individual income tax in the states
that voted against the administration
on November 7.
Viewed as "Benevolent Father."'
"The President's champions presented
. i,#.ni-volfnt fsither to the Deo
pie, looking after them when in trouble.
taking money out of the Treasury
to help them when the rain pours and
the floods corr.e, or when the rains fail
and the drought brings the grasshoppers
and chinch bugs, or the boll weevil
gets into the cotton, or the wolves and
prairie dogs get troublesome, or the
roads get bad, or to give them credit
at the Treasury when the banks will
not give it to them. That kind of
praise appealed to a good many people."
"Will the new alignment of the'west!
and the south continue?"
"I hope not. It would be a revival oi"
the old antagonisms between agriculture
and manufacture, only more dangerous
since we have come to the policy
of securing the greater part of the j
federal revenues from internal taxa- !
tion, rather than taxes at the customshouse.
''Soak the Rich 99 Apparent Policy.
" 'Soak the rich* appears to have become
a political policy, and there are
a great many people who have an idea
that this government can be supported
by income taxes alone, and at the same
time tend more and more to paternalism.
"Th--? present < ,'ongress has doubled
the income taxes, and the next report
of the commissioner of internal revenue
w ill probably show that more than
one-hair of all the revenues from this
rax will be collected in the state of
New York. Nine-t?-nths of it will come
from The industrial states. Such taxation
is not democratic, with a little
*d,' whatever the democratic policy.
It is too much like the old.system.
when the king tax'-d the barons and
permitted th< barons to lax the people.
The justification for 'soaking the
rich' is the assertion that the rich soak
the poor. It isn't the best way to correct
existing evils."
"Ijo you expect Congress to carry out
the President's legislative program?"
"I haven't seen the President's message.
and don't know what his legislative
program is. But the democrats are
in control, have the power and the responsibility.
1 understand that the
estimates are larger than ever, and the
appropriations are liable to be, which
means continuing deficits to be met
with bond issues or new revenue legislation.
The government can't go on
indefinitely spending $40o.00(?,o'io a year
more than it has. Congress cannot cut
down appropriations until it has completed
the many projects which have
been adopted calling for so much
money each year. We have done a lot
of camels nose legislation, and we'll
have to provide for the bodies of the
' amels before tin- appropriation mill
can be made to grind slower. But I'm
not in the confidence of the President
or the democratic leaders in Congress,
and don't know how they propose to
settle the bills.**
Opposed to Embargo.
Regarding exports to Europe Mr.
Cannon was asked:
"Are you in favor of an embargo?"
"No. A general embargo would be
as bad as was the advent of the democratic
administration four years ago,
-tt'ith stagnation in business, idle men
idle railroad ears and souphouses.
You remember what we had three years
ago and how the European war pulled
us out of the slough of despond- by
compelling the allies to bu> everything
we had to sell.
"Mr. Fitzgerald wants an embargo on
all foodstuffs. The Speaker wants an
embargo on veal to let the calves grow
to maturity and become productive. J
suppose some one else will demand
an embargo on lamb chops, spring
chicken and virgin eggs to carry out
the principle advocated by Speaker
t'lark Hut all talk about embargoes
is after-election thought. Any kind of
an embargo six months ago would
have caused our war prosperity to collaps'1
and led to the repudiation of the
administration.
Expresses Sympathy With "Fitz."
"I sympathize with Fitz, but In his
effort to redeem the democratic pledge
to reduce the high cost of living he
has assumed the task of Sisyphus, who
was condemned eternally to roll the
stone up the mountain. Fitz will have
to roll his embargo stone eternally to
prevent It from rolling over the democratic
party. An embargo on any
American production would cause the
whole structure on which the democrats
won the election to collapse and leave
the country at the mercy of the democratic
economic policies, which have
always produced stagnation without a
European w?,r. I suspect that at this
session Congress will again rally round
the pork bayrel, make bigger appropriations
th&A ever and trust to Providence
to the way to settle the
> ills."
i
* V
/
VW
Mo CHPi^TM
Stamps ON /
' S/&/wk S'^
MAII
Eari
! / "
i
GREECE IN MIDST
OF GREATEST CRISIS
Entente Ultimatum Demanding
Surrender of Arms and Munitions
Has Expired.
ALLIED TROOPS DEBARK
!
Greece today is in the midst, of what
! seerns likely to prove her greatest
i crisis. The entente ultimatum under
{ which possession of Greek arms and
i munitions were demanded has expired,
and King Constantine is reported to
j have definitely refused compliance
j with the demands.
On the other hand. Admiral Du Fournet,
commander of the allied naval
forces? in Greek waters, has indicated
j that he will take radical measures to
i enforce the demands, having troops in
readiness for debarkation at I'iraeu.s,
I the port of Athens.
Allies Debark Troops.
i By tlio Aft*o< 'ated IT*??.
! ATHENS. November 30, via London,
(December 1.?The entente allies are
' - - rloha ion of
reaay l<j ..#*=?*???
troops at Piraeus, the port of Athens.
The Greek government has retaken
control of the post offices and telegraph
lines in Athens, expelling the French
control officers.
Great Anxiety in Athens.
LONDON. December 3.?Special dispatches
from Athens dated Thursday
say there is a growing state 01" anxiety
in the city. The Greek garrison seems
to have withdrawn inland, taking arms,
ammunition and stores. Two regij
merits left during the night with arj
tiilery. The dispatches add that there
j was alarm in the streets Thursday
i morning, due to the appearance of
) bands of reservists, but that later it
! was ascertained they had been called
for service. The authorities seemed
; to be doing their utmost to preserve
order.
j The bourse Thursday was firm, indi(
eating optimism.
Insists Upon Demands.
An Athens dispatch to the Daily
! Chronicle, under date of November 30,
I ascribes the following statement to
Vice Admiral Du Fournet, In command
of the allied fleet in Greek waters:
"I insist absolutely upon the execution
of my demands and will see that
they are realized in spite of all obstacles.
French. British and Italian
detachments will be landed at all
points necessary. I will endeavor to
avoid bloodshed, but will fulfill my
mission thoroughly."
J The Athens correspondent of the
j Daily Mail interviewed Vice Admiral
Du Fournet aboard his flagship and
quotes him similarly to the correspondent
of the Chronicle. The admiral
said that he did not intend either
to seize the arms or to tire upon the
Lireek troops, but declared that unless
the guns were surrendered he would
j land large detachments which would
inot reembark until his demands were
complied with. Other coercive measures
would be taken at the same time,
j "As 1 have most ample forces at my
f disposal." the admiral said, "and some
of the heaviest and most powerful artillery
in existence, I can see no reason
why the arms will not be quietly given
up"
Schools for the German
Wounded
Making useful citizens out of
wrecks of the battlefields;
teaching them useful trades?
despite their physical handicaps?and
securing positions
for them. You will find this
article^ The Sunday Star,
V vk
^
follow . \- -"
these ,/
HOLD UP ATTEMPTED
IN THE RALEIGH HOE
Abram Lisner Attacked in Room,
Havina Been Called to Confer
With "Robert Guggenheim.*' |
i . i
The police headquarters was called
' upon to investigate a daring attempted
hold-up of Abuim Lisner. manager of j
j the 'Palais Royal, in the Raleigh Hotel,
I this afternoon, and two detectives from j
j headquarters were sent to the hotel, j
.Mi. Risner was called ;?? the Raleigh
I ostensibly to a meeting of prominent
business men of Washington to con-^
suit with Robert Guggenheim of New j
j York. He was greeted in room 203-4-5 J
{ by a tall young man with sandy hair, j
who said that while waiting for Mr.
{Guggenheim they would talk the mat1
ter over, which had to do with the
I consolidation of several hanks.
!.\lr. Risner protested that he had engagements
for th?- afternoon and could
ii??t sia. after 2 o'clock, as he was go;
ing to a ciiK't rt.
Draws Pistol on Mr. Lisner.
"you'll not go to the concert," said
1 the other man. who, according to -ur. |
J Risner, then pulled a pistol on him. .Mr.
j Risner called for help. The man tried
j to cover Mr. Risner's mouth with his
hand, and, failing in this, with Mr.
Lisner calling all the while, ran from
the room without his hat.
Mr. Lisner said afterward that die did
not believe the pistol was loaded and
that the attempt was merely made to
frighten him into surrendering whatever
he had. He had a considerable
amount of money and a valuable gold
| watch and other jewelry.
It was understood late this afternoon
! that the headquarters detectives had
caught the man who attempted to hold
j up -Mr. Lisner and were examining him.
SCIENMlfFIND
; IS THE PARALYSIS GERM
i
ST. PAUL, Minn., December 1.?A'
germ believed to be the causative agent1
j of infantile paralysis has been Isolated,
I at the Mayo clinic in Rochester, Minn.,;
by Dr. 1*J. (". Rosenow and his associ-J
ates. Dr. K. B. Towne of Boston and I)r. \
G. W. Wheeler of Xew York, according
to an announcement made in the St. '
Paul Dispatch today. The scientists
are experimenting 011 a vaccine or serum
to combat the disease.
The physicians would not state poslI
tiveiy that the micro-organism discovered
was that of Infantile paralysis, j
| but said tnat tneir experiments pointed |
that way. Their experiments were based
on the atudy Dr. Rosenow made of more
| tnan imy a?*uto cases or me uiaease in |
New York and Rochester. !
What is described as a "peculiar.
polymorphous streptococcus" has been i
J t5<o]pt#?d often In large numbers from |
the throats and tonsils of acute cases I
; or niiantiie paralysis. . In different cul- j
: ture m?*dia tho germs assumed different J
i sizes, it is declared. In some cases they
/were so small that ti\ey were quite in|
visible under the microscope and easily
! filtered through dense porcelain.
"Using the organism In its large
form, paralysis has been consistently
produced In 'animals known to be insusceptible
to inoculation," says a
statement from the physicians. "The
exact relation of our results to the
facts already established as to the etiology
of poliomyelitis cannot yet be
definitely stated. It appears to us that
the small filtered organism which has
been generally accepted as the cause
of poliomyelitis may be the form which
this streptococcus tends to take under
anaerobic conditions In the central
nervous system and in suitable culture
mediums, while the larger and more
typically streptococcic forms which investigators
have considered contaminations
inay be the identical organism
grown larger under suitable condiJ
ioue." I jjj
j
STATE BUILDINGS
BILL TO BE PUSHED
Senator Works to Urge Measure
to Buy D. C, Site for
Exhibits.
j
GOVERNORS APPROVE PLAN
Senator Works of California, author j
of a bill providing- for the purchase of i :
land in the District of Columbia by !
the federal government to be used as
sites for permanent exhibits of the }
states, said today that be intended to .
do all be could to advance the interests
of this legislation.
"I have been in communication with j
the governors of the states," said Senator
Works, "and, while a number of
them have replied that the matter of
erecting state buildings in the National
Capital for permanent exhibjts'"
of the products of the states must <f>me
before the state legislatures, the idea
seems to have struck a responsive j
chord in the minds of some of the gov- j
ernors. I believe that after they have J
studied the matter they will favor the
plan. Of course, the plan cannot be
put into operation without the hearty
co-operation of the states."
Located on New York Avenue.
Senator Works' bill provides for the
purchase by the government of th^
land on both sides of New York avenue
from 15th street east to Massachusettes
avenue and along Massachusettes avenue
to New Jersey avenue, to the Capitol
t?mrk About thirty-five squares are in
eluded in the proposed purchase. The !
states must erect their own buildings and !
provide and maintain the state exhibits.
"The object 01 my bill." said Senator
Works, who has just returned to
Washington from California, "is to create
and perpetually maintain in the
National Capital an exposition where
the products and industries of every!
state in the Union and of ihe national!
government may be exhibited, and
where all who may come to Washing- ,
ton may see gathered in one place the
magnificent and varied resources of
the country, and at the same time improve
and beautify the capital."
Senator Works said that lie thought
the matter was one which might well
be taken up by the trade and civic or- '
ganizations of the District of Columbia;
that these organizations could aid
considerably if they so desired In in- '
teresting the states in the matter.
Legislatures to Meet Soon.
"The legislatures in many of the !
states are about to meet," said Senator
Works, ''"and the opportunity is '
ripe for campaign work in the inter
ests of the plan."
Senator Works gave it as his opinion
that the District prohibition bill, which '
Is now on the Senate calendar, would .
be passe** Xt the coming cession of
Congress if its supporters would ac- j
tively insist upon its being taken up
early in the session.
.The results of the election in Cali- i
fornla. Senator Works said, were due <
to poor management on the part of the >
republican.campaign committee and to
the apparent slight put upon Hiram
Johnson and the progressives when '
Mr. Hughes visited the state and failed j
to meet Mr. Johnson. Senator Works j i
expressed the opinion that Johnson and j '
the progressives were disgruntled, and j 1
that if Johnson had whole heartedly ; 1
supported Hughes* candidacy he could ?
have swung the state Into the republi- J
can column without a doubt. 1
Home Army Bill Clause Adopted.
LONDON. December 1.?The first 1
clause of the German home army bill, as 1
Adopted by the main committee, has passBd
its second reading In the reichstag, ac- <
cording to a Berlin dispatch to Reuter's by 1
way of Amsterdam. Air* amendments
were rejected. The socialists and labor
members voted in the negative;
i -
BATTLE TO RETAKE |(
CHIHUAHUA CITY
|
Reinforced Carranza Forces
Reported to Have Return- I
ed to Attack Villa T
(
DEAD HEAPED IN STREETS
JITAKEZ. I >eeernber 1?Gen Fran-|
Msco Gonzales announced today ho had i f-j
received a report that Gen. Curios!
.tzuna's cavalry met a band of Villa,
troops .vouth of Terrazas yesterday :
morning and had routed them, driving j
the bandits back into the city of Chiniahua.
Con. Gonzales said Gen.
Tzuna's command numbered approximately
3,000 men.
JUAKEZ, .Mexico, December ).?fc?ev- i
iral Chinese residents of Chihuahua t
.'ity, who arrived in Juarez today on a j
troop train, said looting of stores was j
n progress when they left.
- ... _ _ I w
tieported nring to inc s?uui < ; .iuhr-z ^
was d? nied today by Juarez officials,
ivho said the rumor was unfounded.
Jl'AKKZ, J.)?H?mher i.?t auaiiza officials
received a report last night that K
the government treojip,. reinforced by ,?]
(Jen. Murguia's column, were moving .
against Chinuahua City with the pur- '
pose "f retaking it from \ ilia. Gen. k
Trevmo is said to have returned to jr
Nombre de Dios, a few miles above the ^
city, while Gen. < izuna, having gathered j
ui) stragglers, is also expected to strike j **
in at sot;;.- point to the north, co-oper- j T
ating witii Gen. Maycotte and Gen. j ^
Murguia. i .
The feeling of unrest has not les- j "
sem-d in Juarez, however, its the. mass I O
of t he people say openly they tear f jv
Villa may take me town in order to
embarrass the United i5tat -s govern- :
rnent. j Ir
As Villa has abandoned JiYninez, San- j a:
to Kosalia, J'anal and '-very other;
town he. has so lar taken, a Carranza a
officer here expressed the belief the \y
bandits would withdraw from Chihua- w
hua in any case as soon as they had
gathered .sufficient loot. A report, j
which is totally discredited by local
Carranza officials, became current in y,
.Juvrez among the low?r classes to- j;;
night "that oen. Trcvino had been p,
killed in action. ]i
si
Refugees Camp Near Juarez. ; ,i<
The remnants of a Carranza army , jr
that fled north from Chihuahua City I ft
alter a battle with Villa troops camped j m
last night on the plains south of ^
Juarez. They brought with them the u
story of the evacuation of th?- city (
after lour days and nights gl" lighting, j,
1 lie dead were piled high in the streets 1
when they left, and had been covered n
with oil and burn-d, they said. C
Soon alter 1 a.m. yesterday the first
rr?x>j) train brought the ragged survivors
of tne de facto lorces which had escaped
to tne norih. Accompanying this train
was j sanitary section, consisting of three j
second-class coaches and one "White j R
(.rusD uucpitai iftr. in inc>c cara wa? :
mure than M."J wounded aoioiern of the i
Carranza command. The hospitals here S
are filled ^with wounded and volunteer ! n
nurses are" working: to care for the otti
cers and men who fell in bat tie. ' "
' tl
Left Chihuahua Monday. !
The troop trains that brought this aur- ja-'
viving force to the border left ChihuahuaM tl
City at 10:30 Monday morning, proceeding j
to a point near Tetrazas station, where a ! ^
burned bridge forced them to transfer to i ei
tnoiner train \V< dnesday. i u
The troops brought back many of their ' ii
field pieces. These are parked in the : d:
i-ustomshouse yards with garlands of j lc
"jerked beet" hanging from their muz- j p:
zles. Woman camp followers shared in .
the retreat. Some of them had children j w
said to have been born on the battlefield, j a:
Refugees said that between the eeme- i u
tery and Santa Rosa hill the dead \ w
covered the streets, many having died j d'
days before. Along the streets near
the railroad station and surrounding';
the station one of the refugees said he 1
saw many cavalry horses with carbines'
:tm? 1 sabers a't:\ched to the saddles. The!
Carranza cavalrymen having abandoned j
them in order to leave the city on the ;
troop train, they were left without an , 11
owner. Along Zarco avenue the fight- tl
ing had been fiercest, and many civil- ^
ians had been killed there and in
other parts of the city by shell fire and ' ei
rifle, balls. The houses lining this j '1'
street were pitted with the bullet j oi
marks of the battle, a refugee said, and
many shell holes were to be seen in the a
houses in the heart of the city. ?
Battle Turned Fifth Day. tj
All of the refugees agreed that Car- tv
ranza troops were winning during Hie
first four days of the lighting, but ^
- v' - ? ' ? <1111 111 u- I
jiition <?r lack of morale they a ban- ;l,
cloned the city early on the fifth morn- oj
ins of the battle, seeking safety in j1,
flight in all directions. The taking of
.Santa Kosa lull, which always has been ! s<
known as the "key to t'hihuahua," was i
said b\ one foreign refugee to have ; tI
started the retirement of the Carranza h
forces, which. he said, rcsetnbleu a ,
rout before Hie last train left. The
cavalry, artillery and infantry poured j e]
down the streets leading to the station, |
which is north of the city proper, and j
climbed aboard tin* train in a wild j
scramble to get away.
one civilian refugee claimed that tlen.jp
ilonzales t'ullar was responsible for ;
the taking of .Santa Kosa hill, where
he was in command, as he allowed the j J'
infantry line to be weakened. When , ei
the urtiller\ was turned on the city, *
the refugee added. the moral effect was
almost immediately noticeable, and the!*'
farratiza soldiers, who had been anx-I ft
ions for battle Saturday night, dropped i n.
their rifles and fled. one refugee *
claimed to have seen officers leave their j **
men fighting to fiee for safety. This, I a!
however, could not be verified. j p.
Doubt as to Trevino.
i
It Is believed by the refugees and ja!
Carranza officers that dett. Trevino left j ^
first for Tabaloapa, south of the city, j e1
:i?d from there moved to Aldan,a. about ; jn
twenty mi?.es from Chihuahua City. An- I n
other report said the Carranza com- j
mamier was at Hacienda Dolores, west
r?f 11?? cit V.
On'.' Mexican civilian refugee declared j u
he 1 ad seen Villa in the city Monday : f*
mo: .nig before the train left. He said
Villa was walking without the aid of i ,
crutches, as if to inspire his men with a
iiis fortitude. His mustache was shaved i st
off and he looked much thinner than i n
of old. i t
To obtain medicines for his wound, 1
Villa is said by this refugee to have!
broken into two drug stores in the!
city after he had penetrated the busi- '
ness section. Thinking this action j
meant the beginning of looting. Villa
bandits broke into stores and private '
homes. Villa, to stop this looting, is t,.
said to have shot two of his followers I
ind succeeded in stopping the pil- jal
laging. ri
Salazar Not in Battle. ' j ti
i ci
Joseph Ynez Salaz&r's command was re- i
ported to have been sent south to stop a<
Lhe advance of Gen. Maycotte's cavalry a
solumn and took no part in the capture M
5f the city. One refugee said the Villa
jomraandere, who were each given a sec- th
tion of the city to attack, were Julio m
Acosta, who was reported to have been a
killed; Martin Ix>pez, Baudelio Uribe.
SERMANIC GRIP .
UPON RUMANIA
STILL UNSHAKEN
hree Converging Forces
Operating Toward Bucharest
Remain Unchecked.
IAVE REACHED TZOMANA.
16 MILES FROM CAPITAL
ussians Claim Capture of Whole
Range of Heights South
of Kirliabaha.
Tin- Teutonic grip . *>r? Rumania re
luins unshaken and at last rgpor<s
as tightening with thr*?e converging
r- os continuing unchecked their ad- *
anoc toward Bucharest. ;
T>espit?* tenacious resistance by the
umantans. which appears to have it^-oased
af Bucharest vran neared b;
te armies of Field Marshal von Ma- -
onsen and Ocn. von Falkenhayn. the
lvaders arc now almost within gui;-#
not of the capital. They are nearer'
Vir objective on tlie soutjiwest. whire
zomana. -ixteen miles distant, has;
een reached. From the west they h riven
to within forty ntiles, reaching
lavatziotzu. On the northwest they
H-ve brokc-n the Rumanian linos, pe?litting
of a new influx of Austro-Gei*
tan troops by way of Torzburg pass nd
Campulung". .
The Russians meanwhile have been
Hacking heavily hU along the frontier .
f Moldavia, the Rumanian province^
huh projects northward between*
ransvlvania and Bossarabia, in an eylent
attempt to create a diversion
umania's favor. Today Petrograd recits
a pronounced success in this of nsive.
declaring the whole range of
eights along the frontier sourth oiKIi ababa
has been Taken l?v the Itu*-'
ans. Berlin records the breaking" .
i.twn of Russian attacks.
Whether this success will have any- .
immediate effect on the operations of*
ie' Teutonic armies engaged in. th*;
lain attack on the Rumanians hsti*iuU#v .
et been indicated. Apparently it"
ould require a considerable penetraon
of Transylva-nian territory by the.
ussians to affect.the southern cam- .
aig.u. *
lussian and Rumanian .*
Attacks on a 200-MHe , * "
Front Held Blood Waste
~V ' "
r ?he Vh?te?l Pre**,.
BER?}/&, December 1, by wire Lean to
ayvfTle, N. Y.?The Russians and Ku* "
lanfans made violent attacks yester;
ay over a front of nearly 200 miles.
le war office announces. Their efforts '
re characterized 6s a waiite of blood *- *
ncJ ammunition., and it is said that
lev grained no important advantages.
The advance on Bucharest continues,
otwithstanding the resistance of'thc
umaniant.. Field Marshal von Mack.nsen's
force, which crossed the.Diwi
be. is approaching the Arghesu river
i the (firection of Bucharest. Yeste*ay
the Rumanians suffered heavyisses.
The Teutonic forces took 2,5d(?
risoners and 21 cannon.
An offensive movement in Dobrudja
as beguu yesterday by the Russian
nd Rumanians, .who made massed at-,
icks on the Bulgarian left wing,, the
ar office announces. The attack broke
own under the Bulgaria^ fire.
No Advantage Gained. Is Claiip. I
Tlie official statement follows:
"Front of Archduke Joseph: Theussians
and, on the south wing, *hd
uinanians continue in the Carpalians
their offensive attempts. Beveen
Jablonioa pass and the* heights #
ast of ihe basin of Kedzf Yasarhely, a
[stance of 300 kilometers (186 miles >
n an air line. the. enemy made violent:
ttacks. Yesterday, as before, his waste
f blood ana ammunition gained him
irtually no advantage at aiij* place on
^ ?rror.**/? front: Our trooDS made
umerous counter attacks and captured
*om the enemy ground which he had .
iken on the preceding day. The Marurg
Rifles distinguished themselveu.
specially on the Smotrec. attacking
nd bringing in more than forty prja- j
tiers and two machine guns from a
ostile position.
"Front of Field Marshal von Macken?n?In
western Rumania the Human--lii
troops cut off. from their army ar&
-ying to escape their inevitable fate
y following a variable course. Yestertty
the pursuing flerniatis and AustroHungarians
took more than liOO prison*
rs from them. t
Rich Booty Captured.
"Columns advancing-by way of Camulung
and Piteshti. along the river
alleys in Wallachia, took rich booty
i prisoners, cannon and carts, and
specially in baggagt?. The enemy of red
resistance in numerous river s.ec- *
>rs to our forces that are advancing
-cm the east. Here also they were rculaed.
An offensive movement by a
umanian division, to which our cavIry
gave way, was unable to halt our
rocress. " a
"The Danube army has forced its w^y 1
y fighting across the Niaslov lowlands
ud is approaching the course of the
rgeshu in the direction of Bucharest.
"The Rumanians, besides sustaining
lormous casualties yesterday, lost
ore than 2,500 men in prisoners and
venty-one cannon, among which were'
iree mortars. Th** captures reported
esterdav are not included in theae figres.
"In Pohrudja the enemy attacked the
ulgarian left wing. The massed attack
roke down under the defensive fire,
ritish armored curs were unablo to
vert a failure. Two of them were de- royed
in front of our barricades."
:orn and Oil Districts
Almost Within Grip
of German Invaders
LONDON, December 1.?Although satiied
that the Rumanian army is 8tm
>solutely intact. Maj. Gen. F. B. Mauce,
chief director of military operaons
at the war office, told the Aasoated
Press today that any further
Ivance by the Germans would mean
considerable success for them. Gen,
aurice said:
"There is no use minimizing the fact
lat the further advance of the Gorans
means a considerable success, as
step forward* gives them the core
strict, while a still further eter
eans their possession of the^oil bolts..
-
