FINANCIAL EDltlbN
Nlft-fT
EXTRA
&&
ijitftntt
NIGHT
EXTRAS
ituenmg
Ms,"
VOL. III-Nd
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 191G
PRICE ONE CEN'Mii
Cerinoni, ISin, hi tnnrrALio Mram Coufakt
(MMANSMOLD
POISONOUS REFUSE OF MILLS .
POLLUTES CITY WATER SUPPLY,
SAYS STATE HEALTH OFFICER
BANDIT FORCE
NEARS JUAREZ;
FIRING HEARD
Villa Believed to Be
Threatening Town
on Border
$tWi
lUAIUnUUJuiEy$;
QUICK NEWS
WOOD ON RISKS
... I
on cops' mm
I ?
I
RUSSI'ANfPUSH
ON IN RUMANIA
Slavs Fail to Stop Teu
ton Advance, Ber
lin Says
ALLIES USE BRITISH
TANKS IN DOBRUDJA
Pctrograd Reports Cap
ture of Range Positions
Near Kirlibaba
2800 RUMANIANS TAKEN
Mnckcnacn Appronching River
Line Fifteen Miles From
Bucharest
ntJiUN, Dec. 1.
The great nusslnn offensive which wns
launched over a front ot ISO miles In tho
Carpathians ns a. nnal nn4 supremo cflort
to save Rumnnla has not succeeded under
tho determined resistance of the Austro
German forces. According to the cinclal
report Issued by tho War Drtlco today.
Not only have tho Rustlan nltncks been
repulsed, tho War Ofllco statedjbut counter-attacks
by tho Teuton wonjickisomo
of tho ground that had previously boon
lost.
The Gorman Allies flut Invaded Ru
mania south of Ilucharest are approach
ing tho Arjesu river, which crossed the
Gturgevo-Bucharost road about fifteen
miles south of tho Rumanian capital.
The communication reports tho capturo
ot more than 2800 additional Rumnnlnn and
Russian prisoners, ns well as stores of
war supplies and Runs.' The booty being
captured. In tho Rumanian plain In tho sec
tors of Campolung and Fletlscl has been
exceptionally cxtonsivfe. i
In Dobrudja the Russo-Rumanlan forces,
supported by English" armtd nnd armored
tractors, or "tanks," attacked tho l3ft wing
of the Bulgarians, but thofnssault wan re
pulsed. (These "tanks" nro believed to bo the
some as thoso used by tfce Allies on tho
Somms front In France and had evidently
been sent Into the Rumanian theatro of
war by tho British.) !
Heavy, losso are ' being Indicted upon
the Russo-Rumanlan forcci.
Tho text of -tho Waf OMce communlca
tlon follows -r.ijyj0k, .--.V'A,- -Army
group of, Archduke Josef Tho
Russians nnd north wing of tho Ru
manians haye, continued their efforts ,
to break through the Austro-Ge'rman ,
lines In tho Carpathlaas. Between
Jablonltza Pass and the heights east
of the basin of Kezdlrnsarhely tho
enemy made violent attacks over a
front of 180 mile's. The waste of blood
nnd ammunition practically at' no placo
on this long line 'Ift-ougutjhVn nny ad
vantage. Our' trobpa htvuV-numerous
counter-attacks and captured from tho
enemy ground which ho had taken on
the preceding day.
The Marburg Rides distinguished
themselves especially on the Smotrco
line. They made a raid and brought
back with them more than forty pris
oners and two machine guns.
Army ''groujf of Field Marshal von
Mackensen lit western Rnnianla, Ru
, manlan troops that were "cut oft from
the main body are trylmr,'to escapo
their Inevitable fato by rapidly' chang
ing the direction ot their' opuratlons.
On Thursday tho pursuing Germans
and Austro-Hungarlan captured mora
than three hundred prisoners.
Columns advancing by way of Cam
polung and reteacl along the river val
leys In Wnllachla made, rich hauls of
booty, prisoners, guns and carts. These
contained much baggage.;1- The enemy
offered resistance In numerouH river
sectors against our forces, advancing
from tho Alt. IVo repulsed all attacks. -.
An orfensive thrust of u Rumanian
division, beforo which cavalry gave
way, was unable to halt our progress.
Tho Danube army afterguard fight
ing has forced la crossing ot tho
Nlaslov lowlands -nnd Is approaching
tho Arjcssu In the direction ot Buch
arest. The Rumanians, besides enormous
losses yesterday, Esvo up ' more than
7500 prisoners. 'Wo raptured also
twenty-one cannon, nmong jvhlch were
three mortars. The figures reported
yesterday are nH here Included.
In Dobrudja the enemy uttaclted the
Bulgarians' left wing. The attack
ing masses, were repulsed by our Are.
Kugllso armored cars, which supported
... .. t .... r2' .. ...
mo pimcKcrp, wcri unauie u& neip
thr. Two of themevjyere I
de-
stnyed before our barraadeev
The Austro-HungarlaoWar OttMp in un
official statement today dwells iapsn (he
Herein ot tho fighting It) th? Carpathians,
where Uio Russians are rj'loT'to break the
Austre-Qrman lines and rejleve the press
ure against Rumania. Snjall gains are ad
mitted but it Is said Ik&'W' overbal
anced by the enormous IombS.
VfblyADeJ. 1.
Bulgarian forces under VhaTWajpirenaen
that crossed the Danube WfOtjll Ru
mania at alurgevo haVe defeated tho-Ru-mamana
in battle, capturing two eight-Inch
guns, aays on official report of the War
Cenllnutd op ' Ttn, Cetuuia One
THE WEATHER
F0ngQ4BT
Vor PhijaclelpjaQ and vieinUvTatr
WMthtr an4 moderate fewpwufurg to
titght ana Hatur$gv; Joicwt tonight about
3$ iQiit or St tfesreu; gnH tmteflv
utntlt.
LENOTII OP DA
Sua riM
6ae set .
? . m. 1 Meoa iliu Jl AQ B.
a$ p m. I uou south. S 43
DlOAWAim lUVKtt TIDE CHANOKS
uubotnut stkbst
13 a. w. I Juiw iUr. , x.
j&h Wl
vmwmjwmfi ai each noon
A t 4TiW
U III II I I T J X I
r i 4i rat rmrmrnr wrwrsr
Doctor Dixon to Take
Charge of Situation
Tomorrow '
MAY CLOSE UP PLANTS
Water Not Dangerous, He
Says, but Taint Must
":Be Removed
The strong chemical odor nnd taste of
the city water supplied by the drought-de-pleted
Schuylkill River nro due. not en
tirely to tho gas generated by decaying
mlcro-orgnnlsms, but nlso to the waste dis
charge of Manayunk mills, somo of whlcti
stand In danger of being shut down by the
State Department of Health for pollution
ot tho stream.
This, became known today, when Dr
Samuel (1. Dixon, Stnlo Commissioner of
Henlth, nnnounccd that n- corps of State
health Inspectors Is nt work among tho
river-front mills ns fnr up the Schuylkill as
I'ottsvllle, following the discovery or waste
chemicals. Including phenol, In samplcB of
water taken from tho supply. Doctor Dixon
said today:
Wo have causa to suspect that cer
tain mills nro violating tho law by
sending their waslo dlschnrgo Into tho
river. In combination with tho decay
ing nlgnn nnd tho exceedingly Itiw
wnter, this prnctlco Is responsible for
tho bad water.
DIXON' TO TAKK CHAROK
None of the mills, which represent In tho
nggrcgalo millions of dollars of Invented
capital, will be closed until a definite case
has been proved against 'It, Doctor Dixon
said, lie will arrive In Philadelphia, about
noon tomorrow to tnko charge of tho sit
uation, which affects the drinking wnter of
moro than half a million persons of tho
city's population.
The unsavory tasto Is not harmful, Doc
tor Dixon stated, lie added:
Our analysis, which have been under
taken, during tho last several weeks,
show that thcro arc no disease germs
present In tho wnter. It Is merely dls
agroeable, nasty-tasting stuff.
Ono of the mills In particular wo
suspect of discharging a tarry sub
stance 'containing phenol, which gives
rise to a very unpleasant taste and
odor.
Phenol, which la tho chemical namo for
carbollo acid and certain hydroxy! derlv-
i8KlsjilnJjls.hipri colorless -Crystalline
substanco produced by tho destructive dis
tillation of many organic bodies, such o
wood and coal, nnd Is obtained from thev
heavy oil from coal tar. It Is In vpry dlluto
solution In tho waters ot the Schuylkill,
causing particular creosote-llko taste.
A CAUSTIC POISON
Phenol Is n powerful caustic poison. So
dlluto Is tho solution In tho city water,
however, that tho menaco of poisoning has
disappeared, leaving the antiseptic smell.
'Tho offending mills must and will
stop discharging their harmful waste prod
ucts Into tho river." Doctor Dixon said.
"As soon as we can, with certainty, deter
mine who the guilty manufacturers are,
they will be compelle4 to end the practice.
t'ontlnurd on Pnxe Sit, Column Tour
BERLIN MAY PAY
FOR MARINA LO'SS
Will Offer Damages and
Punish Commander if
Attack Was Illegal
LIKELY TO ADMIT GUILT
WASHINGTON. Dec 1. Germany
stands ready to pay Indemnity for Ameri
can Uvea lost In the Marina torpedoing,
to offer on apology for the Incident and
to punish Jhe submarlno commander re
sponsible. It It develops that the vessel
was Bunk unjustly.
This pffer was doubly conveyed to the
State Department today both In Ger
many's formal reply to American Inqui
ries on the '.Carina sinking and during a
confidential Interview between Secretary of
State lanslns and Ambassador von Bern
storfl. Germany's answer said thaher In
formation nbout tha destsuotlon of the
vessel, with osa of sis Americans, va'.i
Incomplete and Inconclusive, and the Ara
bassador requested that this Government
give Germany any further facts as to
tha case.
Kverything about the Oerman reply and
the Bernstorff vlalt pointed to an admis
sion of guilt later, for the circumstances
surrounding tha answer are very similar to
those that surrounded the Sussex casa when
tho American faota showed beyond doubt
that tha vessel was a German submarine
victim, and Germany ultimately- accepted
that vr,sloft
Dernstorff'a visit, made at hU own solic
itation, was solely to discuss the Marlpa
case, and there was no reference to settle
ment of the Lusltanla case or other prob
lems between tha two nations.
Germany's contention In the Marina case
Is that th Marina had been engaged as
a horse transport in the British Admiralty
service, though evidently the Admiralty
character had been, removed before the tor
pedoing. Germany contends that her previ
ous Admiralty service tended to palliate, at
least the sinking.
Affidavits at the Slate Department from
Mario wvivow tend V bw rather ee
eJUlvtyi that rt a !' wn'
out warning. t
tcxixZAiV'Zarzzszs
iHinKBWiKSyjagJtW
DR. SAMUEL G. DIXON
MAN JUMPS TO DEATH
FROM DREXEL BUILDING
Alfred D. Bercsford, Salesman,
Leaps From Ninth Story to
Rear Courtyard
Alfred I). Ileresford. a snlcsman, lenped
to his death shortly after noon todny, from
tha ninth floor of tho Drcxcl Rulldlng, Fifth
nnd Chestnut streets, lie resided with his
mother nt 23S South Sixth street.
No one is known to havo seen Ucresford
Jump. Ills body Innded In n court In tho
rear of tho building. Kvcn persons In
ofllcerf nearby did not know ot tho suicide.
Footprints, plainly visible on tho window
sill, indicate that he whirled on his foot
as ho leaped, The window frnmo Is a
small ono, barely largo enough for n man
to pass through.
Tho polco Avero Informed of tho suicide
by n,jnessepger,boy, vhodhoiough
thVbody'wna a board' untllhe saw a man
on tho pavement.
When tho police arrived Ueresford was
flcad. Ills body was removed to the
Morgue. g
Deputy Coroner McKcever found In his
wallet n noto, which read as follows:
ir. Tf. P.:
Plensa contlnuo my weekly check to
my brother Percy. This Is no sacri
fice, as I want to pass away. Cod will
forgtvo.moj
ALFRED D. DKrtKSFORD.
Trolley Durnctl by Crossed Circuit
SIIEN'A.VDOAH, Pa., Dec. 1. A cross
circuit started flro In a trolley car In Glrnrd
vlllu's crowded car barn. Tho car was run
outside, but It was destroyed.
YOUNG WOMAN LEAPS
FROM SPEEDING AUTO
Tells of Attack by "Chance Ac
quaintance" With Whom
She Was Riding
SKULL MAY BE FRACTURED
An attack In an automobile by a chance
acquaintance, with whom sha had been rid
ing, caused Mrs. Anna Itodgers, a pretty
woman, about twenty-five years -old, to
jump from the car early today at Belmont
and Wyaluslng avenues. Sha was found
lying unconscious on the sidewalk by a
motorman of a Forty-fourth street car. lie
Informed the police, who sent the womani
to the West Philadelphia Homeopathic Hos
pital. Thero Is u deep wonnd on her fore
head, and the physicians believe her skull
Is fractured.
The woman was unable to give a coherent
account of the attack until this afternoon,
when she was questioned by District Detec
ttvea Seal, Wooten and Slbre, of the Sixty
first and Thompson streets station.
She said whlo out with some girl friends
yesterday she met by chance n man with
a car. They stopped In several oafes und
finally rode through tha park. Mrs, Rod
ger a said she finally akked him to stop the
car and let her out. He refused, according
to her story, and told her If she wanted to
get out, she would have to Jump.
She leaped from the automobile as It
reached Belmont and Wyaluslng avenues.
Her head struck the ourb and she was
knocked unconscious. The stranger sped
on without looking to see what had become
of her. The woman, was unable to tell
how long she had lain there before the
motorman found her She ajso failed to
explain how she became separated from
her girl companions.
pesptte Mrs. Itodgers's assertion that ber
assailant was a chance acquaintance, the
police believe that sb knows who he la,
and for some unknown reason la shielding
hMttl6he destined to give 'any description
of tine car except to say that It was very
large.
At the South Tenth street address It was
learned that tha place was conducted as a
rooming house by the woman's mother.
She was shocked on hearing of the at
lack on her daughter.
"My daughter left here yesterday after
noon," she wtd, "with several girl acquaint
anee. but did pot say where she was
gsjwf." k i
Mrs, Radgefs's hutband b said to be W
piti$usb.
FEAR FOR AMERICANS
STILL IN CHIHUAHUA
U. S. Officials Seek Informa
tion of Citizens in
Fallen Post
OUTLAW TAUNTS ENEMY
Declares He Expects to Attend
Race Meet Somo Time
This Week
HI, PASO, Tex., Dec !. Firing began
nbout four miles south of Junrcx shortly
beforo daybreak today.. About fifty shots
were heard, hut all efforts of the United
Stnten authorities to learn the cnue were
unavailing. Natlvo residents of .luarex be
lieved tho city had already been nttscked
by Villa, nnd severnl families ran to the
American sldo of the International bridge
In panic. A heavy detachmont of Carrnn
xlsta cnvnlry was hurried out toward the
racctrnck from tho Curatcl.
United States military authorities here
thought tho Carranzlsta outposts hnd sight
ed a roving band of Vllllntaa, known to bo
hovering south and east ot Juarcx.
On Tuesday morning nfter his enpturo of
Chihuahua City. Villa began slaughtering
the Chinese residents of the city, four refu
gees arriving here today told United States
authorities.
More than fifty Chlnesa had boon killed
when they escaped, they said.
Ono Chinese refugee nald that of one
party of twenty-seven of his countrymen he
was tho only ono to escape. Thrco other
refugees woro tho only survivors of a sec
ond party ot thlrty-flvo.
LITTLH 1IOIM4 FOR AMERICANS
These reports of slaughter left little hope
here for tho safety of six Americans known
to havo been In Chihuahua City. Four days
havo passed slnco tho evacuation by do
facto troops and no Information has reached
tha border ot the fats, of the foreigners , In
the. northern, caIni.'" - .- ,.-f
"brio'hlgh United States Covernmont offi
cial nald today:
"We have little hope for the lives of these
people. They may havo "fled to tho hills,
but It they remained In the city It Is al
most certain they have massacred."
In a taunting telegram to General Gon
zales, Carranza commander at Juarez, Villa
declared ho had killed "forty Chinos nnd
three lilnnco Chinos" after capturing Chi
huahua City.
"Iltanco Chinos" Is an expression ot de
rision Villa coined recently In referring to
Americans. Whether ha actually executed
three Americans was not known positively.
Villa sent another message over tho mili
tary telegraph wire from Chihuahua a few
Continued on I'ase Ttn. Column Thrra
DOPE FOR CAMDEN
JAILBIRDS SEIZED
Pasted Under Thanksgiving
Card Turkeys and in
Magazines
AGENTS "TIPPED OFF"
A wholesale plot to supply dope to Fed
eral drug prisoners In the Camden County
jail was nipped In the bud by postal In
spectors and Internal revenue agents today.
It Is expected that several Important arrests
in connection with the scheme will be made
either today or tomorrow.
According to the plans of the schemers,
cocalno and heroin In large and smalt quan
tities were to be sent to the prisoners, pasted
In raised postal cards and especially glued
between tha advertisement pages of current
magazines.
The plot was discovered today when Pos
tal Inspector Frank Wilbur Smith and In
ternal Revenue Agent Ralph H. Oyler con
fiscated magazines and Thanksgiving cards,
which, they said, were addressed to David
Hill and Patrick Kelly, two alleged "dope"
peddlers, who are being held In the Camden
County jail pending trial this month.
AaENTH TIPPtfD OFF
Tha packages ordinarily would not have
attracted the attention of the officers, but
more than a week ago they received In
formation that dope would be smuggled
Into the Jail, and the discovery of today
was the result of several days of watchful
waiting.
Postal Inspector Smith and Special Agent
Oyler both noticed that there was some
thing unusual about the harmless-looking
Thanksgiving card whleh, they said, was
addressed to one of the alleged peddler
and (escribed; Wishing you happiness,
from your dear mother."
The writing is thought to have been
simple ruse to have the card passed by
the Jail officials, who would probably not
attempt to hold up a card written by what
was supposed to be the aged parent ot one
of the prUooers,
When Postal Inspector Smith raised sev
tral flowers and a small turkey on the card,
tfeay were fouad lv several grain ot
REPORT U-BOAT OFF Uk S. COAST
NEW YOIUC, Dm. l.VawettKerft arrlvlnjr here todt7 on tho
tenmU!i Crotton Il.-tll from Bttouos Ayves brought n icjiort that n
niysUrUiUa emit which they believed to tftivo been n German au'omn
liae, was sighted forty nies off Diamond Shonis, Boms oC the pus
scngeis even thought that tho boat urns clinin a (Spanish itcnmstilit
Uutt Hnd patsed the Crofton Ilnll several hours emlter. Tho ctalt
WrtB sighted nt nlijht nnd' tho belief thftt she wns n. war nubmnrtne
vs bed minly h hind f llglm sh orrid,
GERMAN ADMISSION-OF MARINA BEFORE WIS50N
f
WASHINGTON, Doc. 1. Secretary Lansing this afternoon laid
beforo the .'President the Informal admis&lou by Germany, made
through Ambassador von JJcnistovff earlier today, thai n Oerman
cubsip.rlne sank tho Tlritluh steamship 'Marina without vnrnTiig ljp
cnttso tho c'lMurnantlei beliovcd tho vosacl wai in tho acrvlco of ti:e
British Admiralty. The conference was expected to determine tf.e
final attltutlo of the case, notwithstanding' tho fact that Germany has
not yet admitted that the Marina was noli a transport.
FEAR OF SUBMARINES BQOSTS SHIPPING RATES
NEW YOllK, Deo. 1. Tho repented warnings of Ui-ltlyh battleships off tho Now
Jersey const to outgoing Allied steamships to bo watchful for Oormnn submarines
cuuscd n further Htlffcnliig of tho transatlantic mien today. Shipments to tho
United Kingdom nro now being taken ut from two nnd ono-tmlf per cent to five per
cent, with somo underwriter out of tho market. The rates to South Amurlcn havo
also boon slightly advanced, bolnsr quoted now at from thrco-nuurtors to ono nnd one
half per cont. lUiteH to tho Mediterranean uro firm nntl unchanged nt from 'four to
eight per cent. Tho bollof Is general in local martnu Insurance olllcca that U-boats
nro In tho' Atlantic. A ropprt from Krnnco eurly, ,thlq week Mated that, two sub
marine;) ;hnfl ;ovadcxl tho Kngllsh p.dt'rols and were- headed for tho American. coast.
FLOUR DROPS SIXTY CENTS A BARREL
CHICAGO, Doc. 1. Standard flour broke sixty cents per barrel today to Chicago
wholcsnlo basis VJ.20. compared with recent hlith price of $10.30. Kirst decline was
twenty conts lust wool:.
SLIGHT RIOTING IN ATHENS QUELLED
LONDON, Dec. 1. A ullcht outbreak of rioting on tho streets of Athens, with
tho firing of several shots, npparently without casualties, was reported In an Kvonlntr
News dispatch from tlio Greek capital today. Quiet was restored. Admiral l-'ournet
Is expected to land Htrong detachments of Allied forces to watch tho Allies' transport
there Thu Chalols garrison, In light marching order. Is mnrchlng townrd Schtmatnrt.
Other forces aro reported marching southward from Thcssaly nnd 1'thlotls.
, REICHSTAG PASSES HOME ARMY BILL ON 2D READING
AMSTERDAM, Dec. 1. A nows agency dispatch from Berlin says that tho
Rolchstai; has passed tho first clnuse of tho German auxiliary sorvlce (civilian army)
bill on second rending. AH amendments were rojected. Tho dispatch adds that
tho Socialists nnd Lnborltes voted in tho negative.
VARE GETS LEAGUE ISLAND PARK CONTRACT
Director Datc.iman, of tho Department of 1'ubllc Works, today awarded the
$100,000 contract for tho development of -tho eastern part of League Island Parle
to Edwin II. Vnro, who was tho pnly bidder. Varo's citlmato was J 1 13,136.97.
GERMAN PEACE AGENTS ARRIVE AT THE HAGUE
LONDON, Dec. 1. Tho Rotterdam correspondents of both tho Times and Dally
Mall telegraphed to their papers today that German agents have arrived at The
Hague and other Dutch rltlcs on a peneo mission, Theso nccnts nro roported to
be getting In touch with pacifist propagandists. It Is believed that they, aro acting
unofllcially.
BRITISH DEFEAT BIG GERMAN FORCE IN EAST AFRICA
LONDON, Doc. 1. Capture of 'n largo German forco In German East Africa,
division of Teutonic armies In that section, and n retreat of badly reduced enemy
detachments was announced toduy by General Smuts, rommanderdn-chlef of tho
British forces In Oerman East Africa.
MINT HERE BREAKS THE COINAGE VOLUME RECORD
Tho United States Mint In Philadelphia Just turned out the largest coinage
for November In Its history. The November coinage consisted of 9,850,000 dimes,
8,260,200 nickels and 29,976,450 pennloi, totaling J1.CS8.0C 1.D0.
CAPTAIN OF LOST ZEPPELIN RAIDER KNOWN HERE
Many Thlladelphlans knew tho commander of one of tho two Zeppelins de
stroyed In the most recent London raid. He was Lieutenant Commander Deltrloh,
who In tha early part of tho war sailed from Philadelphia on the steamship Bran
denburfr and reached Norway safely after evading several British cruisers. Ho was
a captain of tho North Oermun-Lloyd Lino.
ARCHBISHOP PRENDERGAST TRANSFERS PRIESTS
Archbishop Trendergast has directed tho following transfers of priests: The
Rev, Augustln J, Schulle from Media tn West Chostert tho Rev. Joseph A. Dough
erty from Wost Chester to Media; tho Rev. J. W. Itanooolt from St. Agnes, this city,
to Ht. John tho Baptist, Allentown: tho Rev. Joseph Novorplsky from Allentown
to this olty,
i
EASTERN SPAIN DEVASTATED BY FLOODS
MADRID, Deo. 1. Thousands of families have been msdo homeless by floods
In eastern Spain. At Alclra tho railway station and a number 'of houses collapsed.
Much damago has been done at Murehla.
. ' ', 'i " ' '
STANDARD OIL GRANTS THIRD PAY JUMP IN BALTIMORE
BALTIMORE, Dea I. Tho Standard Oil Company today increased th? pay of
aJJ Its empjoyea at the Cntfln rjflnsrlw here. The increase ransei tronx two and
one-half cents an hour upvrard, aooordlng to the work performed. This Is the third
time the company has raised the waaes of its employes here within the your. These
Increases amount to about thirty-six per cent.
REAPING SECOND MOST CHARITABLE CITPY
READING, Pa., Pee. 1. RwnHns Is
Wtjlfcujaite.cbrltabje and pblljitrPIwi, acediay US
lbs mw ity ' the, UaJted
Pension Mutual ' Head?-
TTt 1 J f T-v 1
ii ma to . ; i ear ves i pp t m
to Clear
Scandal
-r --- " -- w . n W A A V W T- wjA
3&siS
WILL GET AT FACTS,
I UMl'PU G'P A rpTii-ns-Tii vtrn TsWcS
.. -- . . , Z. 'stfj.P
J.kJ USH 1 ii J iAi AJXTXXJil 'J,, i WJ
. 4--Hfe,t.H Q .
Question Officers of Bene-M
ficiary Association Abou
"Philanthropist" " W;
WHITELY STILL SILENT,,
.'7j,
Colonel, However, Soys H
Saved Organization $15,000.7-1
Wnita for O'Nell on Policies ' mk
-
' ,-s'w
Mayor Smith started (o probo the police?", j5?)
Insurance scandal today, Ho had Lyndon' .,
D. Wood corns to his office In City Hall and ' '-'".
tho two spent nn hour trying to flndout " I'sHt
who tho "Unknown philanthropist'' In IKs ' wj ,
easels. ' ', pL
They didn't! find out, but the Mayor nevar- ' '"jvi
thelcss believes he knows. "We'll feet htm 'MBF
yet," he nald. " . 'Jr?
Mr. Wood Is the president of the Pension'
Mutual l.lfo Insurance Company, which
was under Urn of Insurance Commissioner
ONell before the fact developed that It was.
linked with thn Police llencflotttrv Associa't
tton In tho Insuring of 'policemen wlthodt'
the knowlcdee of the policemen themselves. .
Tho day's developments were moro or
less sub tosa. Mr. Wood's call on the
Mayor, nt tho Mayor's request, was keot ttfli-':
quiet ns possible. Ho, too, with the call
of two ot the Bencflclary Association's omv
ccrs on Director of I'ubllo Safety Wilson.
They called also by request.
Illrnm Horter, treasurer, nnd Secretary
McCny, were tho two officers to-Ajlalt pj
....,... writ-.. t-hn. !.-.. t-tlf-ta'hM:
,Wl' ,.,(.1WM. I. tlt.V tKJ MtMtVMP-.. V
neither they nor Wilson would dlvulnpSj
was said that they simply wonted tn niaticf
their position clear. Just what that might
mean la yet to be explained, for there; Is
no denial of tho fact that they ns officers
permlttad policemen to be Insured without'
the 'pollcenion'snowletlKelltwctor Wil
son was 'so Insured, tiiljourierlntenden
Robinson. '. " ., .'.'"',' --.
i , Mr. Wood, camo to tho Mayor's oITlce
loaded down with books and records. The
Mayor hnd asked him to brlntf them nlons;
he wanted tp find out who tho 'philan
thropist" wos.Aftor the Ions; conference
tho Mayor saldj '
"Thero was nothing la the books to shoir
who tho 'philanthropist' was."
Roportcrs asked If Mr. Wood know wheV
tho mysterious person wns. The Mayor re
plied In tho negative, but amplified thus: .
"But I think I know him. We'll get him
yet."
WIIITKLY MAY TBLL
The Idea is growing that this "philanthro
pist" la none other than Colonel Seth TL
Whltcly, tho ngent who placed tho Insur
ance with the Pension Mutual. Ho has
said ho will reveal the unknown's Identity
only to Commissioner O'Nell.
The Philadelphia Association of Life Un
derwriters has annouflced through Prank
D. Uuscr that it will indorse an movement
to clean up tho Insurance mesa which is
being revealed to the public.
Mr. Iluscr said no one wants a clean
up so much as the reputable Insurance com
panies. Ho raid the Underwriters' Asso
ciation would gladly place Itself back of the
State administration If nn Investigation
Into Insurance wrongs Is begun with the
Idcn of making such wrongs Impossible.
lie cited the fact, that In Pennsylvania,
there are licensed about seventy "foreign,"
Insurance companies nnd fourteen domestlo
ones, while lit New York, there are less than
thirty "foreign" companies and eleven do
mestjc If New York laws yttrp hot o
stringent, virtually all those that aro doing
business here would bo doing It In New
York, too'. The obvious conclusion Is that
the business of the barred companies Is not
healthy tor the public.
Mr. Uuser said that the revelations In
the police Insurance scandal showed the
need of corrective measures. "To allovr
such things to continue," he said, "works,
a hardship on the whole phase of group
Insurance, and everybody knows that grouu
Insurance, properly supervised, is a. very
fine thing."
It was stated by Mr. Buser that such a
company as the Pension Mutual Wfe In
surance Company couldn't even gain mem
bership Into the Underwriters' Association.
WHITEL.EY SAY3 MTTLf
Colonel Whlteley had promised a state
ment today Wans he expectsd ta tallc,,'.
with Commissioner O'Nell. The Comtnlir
sloner did not come to town, however, sftlt
Colonel Whlteley postponed, his statement
except to say that It will be shown h J
,aved the Police Beneficiary Asoottlti
lliq.OOO In two years.
"Well then," ha was asked, "are you. the,
philanthropist t"
"That will be cleared up when I glra
out my statement eurly next weV b
answend.
The Colonel also said;
"The total amount of premiums th i
been txild Into Ihe Pension WjUusl fa-W
connection Is about JHMA0, Thejr Wm
out In death claims about UJ.i. f$g
they have received about f U.ttt Ouhp tU-.
paid out. wnen issy ui up w js wmZJr.mm
dam now Sue. f they er tj iyj-,-
be fpuad that the yolMw usewWMfVMsjKr
clali will bav !- a jmmb s misa'utt
m
F ':r: I '
O'
- - " v. "'ewsTMWI'TWWsahfctaji-- .-
