HOLDS FIRST PRIZE OF KENTUCKY PRESS ASSOCIATION A8 BEST" EIGHT-PACE WEEKLY IN KENTUCKY
. i HIS .
II fl Nrwiss
OiL
Delicate Girb
siWeakVomen
gain strength
for body, blood and
nerves from .
nature's nourishing
oil -food
Scott's
.Emulsion
ANDY NEW
Always Shun
Inferior Substitute ,
Aut in.ven.ium viam, ant, faciam.
Volume XXXII. Number 14.
LOUISA, LAWRENCE CPUNTY, KENTUCKY, DECEMBER 1, 1916.
M. F. CONLEY, Publish.
BIG
LENTUCILY OIL FIELDS
PRODUCING HEAVILY ;
FIRE 8WEEPS ENTIRE BLOCK.
Irvine, Ky., Nov. 25. Fire orhrinat-
Ing lri the City Restaurant here at 1:80
o'clock this morning destroyed an en-
Ire business block and caused a loss
of $250,000. The lire whs discovered
about 1:46 o'clock by two men rooming
DEVELOPMENT GOING ALONG AT ' Jn !-building next door. When tlla-
. 'covered the lire had galnec
A RAPID PACE IN EAST
KENTUCKY.
ed much head
way and spread rapidly until only
charred embers remained. The lire Is
supposed to huve started from a coffee
urn In the restaurunt building.
A number of Kentucky bonier coun-n.,' ,, L " "TV." " "
tie oomguo.to the Tennessee !....... waxworks, but there was 7t-
tin wind blowing.
I
are uomlng to the front In production
at a rapid rule. The cantor of activ
ity la Allan-Co.; whlcrrla remote from
Kentucky pipe line connection, and a
flnJd distinct from other developed 're
gion of the Hlato. Returns from new
work are some hut meager, but re
port, cuuie in of two revenl comple-
tiona making In excess of 100 barrels
each, with half a dozen additional
atrikea producing from live to twenty
barrels. Difficulty of murkeUng pro
duction Is the most serious obstacle to
development In that held at the pres
ent. Tank oar transportation to a
Nashville refinery has been the only
outlet for the field's production. New
contract. In Allen-co. cull for the drill
ing of seventy-five wells In the ag
gregate. In upper Kentucky Katlll-co. opera
tion, continue to feature the situation,
but a slight foiling off In returns Is
noted from that district. One well of
large capacity la reported, nuking nev
er, v live barrels, with eight new pro
dU.ir. averaging twenty-live burruls
each. A number of smuller comple
tions are reported, averaging around
Ova barrels. The. Cumberland' i'lpe
lane company Is doing all In Its pow
er to furnish an adequate outlet fur
this Held and has been busy ruimliiK
new extensions. Much new work Is
being started In new directions, ex
tensions of the productive area con
tinuing to feature developments.
One well producing four barrels was
drilled in the dvp-aud district of
LAwreiice-ou. No new wells are re
ported from Wolfe and Morgan coun
ties. New well, are drilling in Jack
son and Bath counties. Home new
work is also tinder way In. the upper
Big Sandy oouniry, bordering West
Virginia.
Interest 1. created by the announce
ment that the Standard Oil company
of Kentucky, a marketing company,
will establish a. refinery at Louisville.
Kentucky oil Is now refined at Park-
ersburg, W. Vs, for the most part, the
trunk pipe line extending to the West
Virginia city. , I'lpe line extensions to
Louisville would probably follow the
erection of a refinery there Courier
JournaL ;
C. C. Dulln, the man who drilled tho
MrM oil well In the now famous Irvine
field, wna asleep In his office when the
alarm was sounded and ho made a slide
for life down a telephone pole guy
wire, escaping from the burning build
TRAGIC DEATH OF
mas""tt,:e0;t,sTcmu.c. CORKER OF A GEORGE
IlllVIF Ml HlflflRRi Th mwf'ng at the Baptist church Is
iinillbU ills lllUUllU"attractiiig conslderalje attention. Good
congregations are amending all of the
services. A goodly number have been
DRIVEN TO SUICIDE BY W0RRIE8 - converted and Joined the church.
It Is expected that the meetings will
OF BU8INES8 AND OTHER
TROUBLES.
The many rebitlves end friends of
Uncle Tip Moore and family were shock
ed Saturduy by the news of the death
of his son James M. Moore, of Logan,
W. Va. He shot himself through the
head In the Husklrk building At Logan.
According to the reports received
here the rash act whs the result of bus
Iness worries. lie went Into a room on
lng. A man rooming above tho Lyric I ,ne ec""d "Hor "f (he H"k'rk build
moving picture thfatre Jumped from 1'" "hortly before nine o'clock and lock
NEW PIPE LINE INTO OIL FIELD.
Lexington, Ky., Nov. 24. John K.
llahan, suierlntendeiit of the Cumber
land I'lpe Line company, a subsidiary
of the Standard Oil company, announc
ed to-night that work on new four
Inch line from the -Irvine oil Held to
Campion would be started next week.
The line will Join the main trunk line
of the Standard OH company at Camp
ton, and the oil will be shot to West
Virginia and then Kaal to refineries
controlled by the Standard.
's The laying of this lino means that
'the Cumberland I'lpe Line company,-
which controls practically tho entire oil
output In this State, will Increase Its
capacity In the Irvine Held from 6.&00
barrels a day to 12.000 narrem aiuiy.
The movement of the concern Is en
tirely unexpected.
"1 have made a pretty careful study
of the Irvine field for the past several
weeks," - Mr. Buhan said, "and I esti
mate, and It is a conservative esti
mate at thnt. that the Irvln field, not
including the Station camp district, bus
a production of upwnrd of 11,000 bar
rels of oil dully. To this Is being added
from 300 to 450 barrels of fill each week
from new wells being drilled. With
this, I estimate that within the next
forty days, when we expect to complete
our next four-Inch line, there will be
more than enough oil In the three dis
tricts: the did Defined Held, the Fitch
burn district and the Millers creek dis
trict, to amply Justify our going to this
expense.
"I am not In tho boosting gnme, nelth
er am 1 seeking publicity. Bia to-day
the Irvine field looks better to me than
at any time during the post two years.
I reaily believe Kentucky will be the
meoea for. oil men In a short time. In
fnct now there are many producers thnt
are making more money here than In
any other Held where they huve holdings.
FINE DEER KILLED BY DR. LAYNE
Wnugh's grocery wns the center of
attraction for many nlmrods In Ashland
their attention being taken by a fine
..deer hanging. In.frunt, of the store. The
doer, a young buck, weighs 149 pound,
and wns shot a few days ago by Dr. P.
C. Layne, who returned home Monday
from a hunt In Northern Maine.
Dr. Layne and his friends will now
be able to enjoy one of the fluent dish
es In the world, venison,, for a few days
and Mrs. Layne is already making ar
rangements to have the- hide tanned
and converted Into shoes. Ashland Independent.
the second-story window when the
flames cut on his escape by the stair
way. He was unhurt.
Tom Huford, contractor for the fire
proof Williams bank, dropped dead of
heart disease shortly after the lire
broke out ...
The Individual losses were: City
Restaurant, partly destroyed, $10,000;
T. (J. Wallace, huherdasnery shop, 110.-
000; Lyric moving plctore theater, $10,
000; Williams Hunk, $15,000; building
containing the Maple Oil company's of
file. Dr. Wilson's ofHce, City Hall and
Mrs. W. T. Davidson's millinery store,
$ir,ooo.
besides these buildings, which were
destroyed, many others were damaged
The W. K. Howell Jewelry shop and
the Williams residence were damaged
The new three-story brick building un
der construction, at Broadway and
Main street, wus In the path of the
flames, but because the Interior wood
work was only partly completed, It suf
fered no appreciable riumnge. The large
vault of the Williams Hank remained
undamaged and stands alone amid the
charred embers. Most of the owners
carried insurance.
The loss of the City Restaurant
which fed hundreds of people dally
has caused a heavy tax on the other
restaurants and hotels of the city. The
fact that Irvine has from 1.000 to 2,501
transients dally has made It necessary
for many private homes to open their
doors to feed the people, following the
fire. .;'-.-.
HOW'LLTHEY ADDRE8S
WOMAN CONGRESSMAN?
Washington. What'll the Speaker
cull the newl) lelected woman of Con
Kress, member from Montana? The
fixed form for addressing members Is
"The gontlemsn from" whatever State
the gentleman's from. Congressional
authorities here, after trying the sound
of various other titles, seem to have
agreed to the obvious, "The lady from
Montana," or the "Woman of the
House."
THE BUSINE8S COLLEGE.
The business department of Kentucky
Normal College Is in first class hands
and those who want a business course
can not do better than to come to Lou
isa for It. Prof. Roland Is a high class
gentleman and will see that you get the
best attention.
It will Interest Louisa people to know
that he Ik a near relative of Rev. J. M.
Holand, who was pastor of the M. K.
Church South at this pjace four years,
and one of the ablest and most popu
lar ministers Louisa hns had.
JUDGE HARGIS' WIDOW DEAD.
Carlisle, Ky.. Nov. 27. The body of
Mrs. Lucy Hargls, widow of former
Chief Justice Thomas F. I lands, of the
Kentucky Court of Appeals, who died
at tho home of her son-in-law, Jerry
South, In Washington, 1). C, was bur
led In the cemetery here today. Mrs.
Hnrgls. before her marriage, was Miss
Lucy Norvell, of this city, and w'us a
sister of tho late Judge John P. Nor
vell, of this city.
FRAZIER-PETER MAN.
On last Sunday, November 28, about
noon, Mr. Doc I'eterman and Miss Liz
zie Frailer were united In marriage at
the home of the bride's tiarents. Mr.
and Mrs. Jav Frailer, a short distance ling qualities.
eloW Louisa, the Rev. II. B. Hewlett
officiating. A large number of friends
witnessed tho ceremony.
ed the door, refusing admittance to his
little son and also to the deputy post
master. The boy, age IS, went outside
and climbed up the spouting to a win
dow of the room In which his father
had locked himself, Just as he looked
in he saw his father send a bullet thru
his bruin. He then broke the window
and climbed into the room. The ball
entered the right temple and came out
on left side, passing through the left
eyeball. Death was instantaneous.
A wife and four boys survive. The
oldest Is .3, the youngest 4. Mrs. Moore
was Miss Nettle White, a member of
one of Logan's most prominent famil
ies. Mr. Moore was 40 years old. He
was postmaster at Logan, having been
appointed three years ago. He had
served as Sheriff of Logan-co. and was
formerly one of the most popular men
in Logan-co. He was a son of Mr. and
Mrs. F. R. Moore, of Louisa. Jim was
born In Louisa and lived here and at
WebbVille until maturity, when he lo
cated at Logan.
The deepest sympathy is felt and ex
pressed for the family und relatives
continue through Sunday. Following
Is the tentative program for the re
mainder of the week: .
Thursday 2:00 p. m. Thanksgiving
service: "Thanks Be To Mod."
Thursday 6:30 p. m. "How The
Death of Jesus Saves Us,"
Friday 2:00 p. m. "When Will Jes
us Come?"
Friday :30 p. m. "Death,. Judgment
and Salvation."
Saturday :00 a. m. "Children's ser
vice." v
Saturday 6:30 p. m. "Harvest Pas:."
Sunday 9:30 a. m. Sunday School.
10:15- Talk to children.
llfOO "Co-conquerers With JesuB."
Mass meeting: for everybody 2:00
m.JO'heme: . "Heaven."
6:0 p. m.-'When The City of God
Cometh Down."
PLANS TO ADJOURN EXTRA
8ESSION IN WEST VIRGINIA.
WASHINGTON SURVEY
NEAR LOUISA IS . WELL KNOWN
8P0T THAT WILL BE MARK
: ED PERMANENTLY.
KENTUCKY BREEDERS OF
PURE BRED LIVE 8T0CK.
' The following article from the Ash
land Independent is of local Interest.
The tree referred to has always, been
The State Department of Agriculture
Is preparing a revised edition of a "Di
rectory of Kentucky Breeders of Pur.
Bred Live Stock," and would appre
ciate anyone who desire, his name to
appear in same to write the Depart
ment direct.
This little bulletin has proven a Don.
ular one and Is mailed not only thrn
out Kentucky but to other States aa
many requests are continually coming;
to the Department for same. It has
served to bring before the public where
the best foundation stock can be found
i cL.hiii iii-io no me uorner or a sur- in tht- , v, . t. ..
vev made hv fienernl r:er w.hin. ! . ? SUUe h6nce the necessity
ff. ?.t....eXU-8.P?' althouf the desire to omit no name In this revised
edition of any breeder of pure bred live
Charleston, W, Va., Nov. 27. Fail
ure to secure sufficient pledges In the
Senate to pass the propused resolution ington. One of such surveys was made
tree has disappeared through decay
The following letter from our good
friend and fellow townsman Judge Jno.
F. Hager Is self explanatory:
Ashland, Kentucky,
September 21, 1916.
Editor,
Ashland Daily Independent,
Ashland, Kentucky.
Dear Sir:
The President of the Kentucky So
ciety of Colonial Dames of America de
sires, for the Society, to set up bronze
tablets commemorating land surveys
made In Kentucky by General Wash
VIOLIN FACTORY
FOR HUNTINGTON
Huntington, W. Va, It Is said that
within the next few weeks there will
probably be started at this place a vio
II n factory.
A violin was played at the Improve
ment convention at the smoker, such
as the new Industry will manufacture
here. The Instrument, It was announc
ed, was made entirely of , West Virginia
wood, a bird's-eye maple bacg and
front of West Virginia spruce, which Is
said to be better than pine for that
purpose. The machinery by whiteh the'
violin was made was also made In
West Virginia.
M. E. CHURCH, 80UTH.
Beginning next Sunday the Rev. W.
H. Foglesong, pastor of the M.E.Church
South, will preach a series of sermons
on: "What The Methodists Believe."
The program In full is as follows:
Dec. 3. "Universal Redemption."
Dec. 10. "Repentance and Justifica
tion by Faith."
Dec. 17. '.Regeneration, or condi
tions for Entering the Kingdom."
Iec. 24. "The Witness of the Spirit,
or Can we KNOW we are Saved."
Dec. 31. "Bible Holiness, or Sontl-
flcatlon."
Jan. 7, 1917. "The Possibility of
Final Apostasy."
Each of these sermons will be deliv
ered at 10:30 a. unless otherwise
announced.
The public generally, and especially
the Jlethodlst folk are Invited to hear
the entire series.
A $50,000.00 POLICY.
R. A. Blckel, the successful Insur
ance man of Huntington, recently wrote
a policy for $r.0,000.00 on the life of a
prominent coal operator, whose name
Is withheld at the latter's request. The
policy was placed In the Home Life of
New York, of which Mr. Blckel Is State
Agent for West Virginia and a part of
Eastern Kentucky. His agency ranks
us one of the company's most product-
ve. He Is now president of the or
ganization of agents of the Home Life
for the United States, nn honor that
came to him In recognition of his hust
creating a committee to Investigate al-'
leged election frauds In the State, as
demanded by Gov, II. D. Hatfield, re
sulted In plans being made to-night to
tiriruy about tho adjournment of the ex
traordinary session of the Slate Leg
islati re to-morrow. The Primary and
Regl. ration Bills remain to be passed
In order to complete the program out
lined In the call by the Governor, but
both, after being freely amended in the
House, were referred to Conference
Committees late to-day. The commit'
tee will report when both houses re
convene to-morrow. The committee
appointed In the House to Investigate
rumors that attempts had been made
to bribe legislators, reported this after
noon that nothing had been found to
substantiate the charges,
INJURED MAN DIES
FROM PNEUMONIA
George Calvin Murphy, aged forty
years, died Tuesday in Ashland of
pneumonia, following Injuries received
Si4arday morning when he was crush
ed. by an elevator at the A. C. & I
shopb. Mr. Murphy had apparently
been progressing favorably and showed
no symptoms of Internal Injuries or
concussion of the brain.
The deceased was a resident of Fair-
view.
ELECTION ECHOES.
Greenup, which gave Morrow a plur
ality of 834, was saved to Hughes by
one vote. The Democrats won back
Hart county by 17 votes and the Re
publicans retained Lawrence county by
18 votes.' The banner Democratic coun
ty this year was Kenton with its 5,135
plurality for Wilson, while Graves was
second with a plurality of 3,267 for the
President; Calloway third with 2,308
and Owen fourth with 2,127. The larg
est plurality for Hughes was 2,748, re
turned by Whitley county. Knox coun
ty wua next with 2,066, Harlan third
with 1,980 and Bell fourth with 1,948
The pluralities returned in these eight
counties in the Stanley-Morrow race
were: For Stanley Kenton, 2,495
Graves, 2,006; Calloway, 1,280; Owen,
642. For Morrow Whitley, 2,215
Knox. 1.692; Harlan, 1,558; Bell, 1,645.
A uersual of the returns, county by
county, discloses the unprecedented m
terest of the people to huve been arous
ed in all sections, since the Increases
In the vote recorded for both Demo
cratic and Republican tickets were
general. . Wilson curried nine congres
stoiial districts and Hughes
two.
carried
THE LOBACO COMPANY.
8IDE TRACKS LENGTHENED.
Side tracks at many places along the
Big Sandy division of the C. & O. are
being extended to hold 100 cars. The
long trains now bolng handled make
this neceHsnry to arrange for handling
trains without unnecessary delays. Mr.
E. T. Morris Is looking after the work.
CONSCIENCE MONEY. ;
The Ashland Independent says the
C. and O. agent there Is In receipt of
the following:
Garden City, Kan., Nov. 21, "16.
Agent of C. & O., at Ashlnnd, Ky.
Dear Sir:
Twenty-seven years ago I rode from
Ashlund to Louisa. Ky., on C. & O.
train without a ticket. 1 want to pay
all my Just debts. I am trying to live
straight and to go to Heaven when I
die. I enclose check for $1.00, which
please turn In to the R. R. Co.
Tours truly.
BASCOM STURGELL.
This Is the second time within the
past few yesrs that Mr. McMahon has
CHAMPION HUNTRESS.
Mrs, Somuel Flgglns, of near Au
gusta, Braeken-co., clalins the cham
inn.hii nf thnt section of the Stale,
Thursday, with forty-nine shells she received conscience money fromppople
killed fifty rabbits, and the day before who have left this part, of the country
she killed three with two shots. Last and It Is a peculiar clrcumstnnce that
season she kilted ten rabbit, with five both came -from former residents of
hells. . 4JOUIBH.
THE APPELLATE JUDGESHIP.
There Is considerable Interest in the
next step as to the Appellate Judge
ship In. this district. When the case
between Kirk and Sampson was in the
courts after tho primary the Court of
Appeals did not declare Sampson to
have been the legally constituted nom
inee of his party. He got his name on
the ballot through the tied vote of six
of the seven members of the Court,
Judge Kollin Hurt being at his home
at Adair owing to the Illness of a mem
ber of his family. On the other hund,
A letter Issued by the Lobnco com
pany of Louisa to Its customers ap-
ruinm In tlm 'VT.-WS This sten nn-
nounced Is forced by the high price of he may be permitted to take the seat
flour, and the plan adopted Is intend- without a contest so strong is the de
ed to give the consumers the benefit of sire of Democrats in the Thirty-fourth
the saving effected by making a larg- I Judicial District Knox, MeCreary and
er loaf at a somewhat higher price. Whitley counties where he -has prac-
The Lobaoo company enjoys a lure i ticuuy ruiea evuryuuim, to
by General Wash'ngton between 1767
and 1770, upon which patent was issued
by the Crown of Great Brltlan in 1772
to John Fry of 2084 acres of land, com
prised in which is the town site of Lou
isa; The beginning corner of this sur
vey was a large poplar tree upon which
the Initials of General Washington were
cut. This tree stood upon the farm of
Captain O, D. Botner until about twen
ty years since when it fell from decay
of age.
Another survey was made by Gen
eral Washington for John Fry. The
northwest corner of tne residence built
by D. D. Geiger In Catlettsburg, after
wards sold by him to Captain Wash
Honshell, was laid upon a well defined
corner of this survey which, beginning
at the mouth of Catletts creek, runs
back to the top of the hill and, follow'
lng a southerly direction, turns to the
Big Sandy river and follows its course
back to the Ohio river, the place of be
ginning.
The object of this communication
is to elicit specific or general informa
tion that will enable the Society to se
lect the most eligible location where
.on the. place bronze tablets commem
orating these surveys and, to this end.
I solicit In this public manner all avail
able Information Xor transmission to
the President of the Colonial Dames of
America,
Original or authenticated copies of
surveys or patents aredesiredfor the
archives of the Society.
JOHN F. HAGER.
stock In the State.
Notify Commissioner of Agriculture,
Frankfort, Ky., giving name, address
and kind of pure bred stock he raises,
his name will be included In this direc
tory. ,.-.-'.'
LOUISA MAN JOINS
ASHLAND LODGE.
BIG PRODUCTION IN IRVIN FIELD.
Ira J. Harshbarger returned yester
day from Kentucky where he had been
visiting oil properties In the Irvln field.
In partnership witl Frank Yates, of
Louisa, Ky., the former sheriff has a
producing tract, an extension south
west from the trvln veld, on which
there are three wells, the total dally
production of which is conservatively
estimated at 600 barrels.
A twenty horse power coil engine is
now being installed on this property
and it is expected that they will begin
pumping there this week and that a
pipe line connection will be affected be
fore December.' At present the pipe
line service available is sufficient to
carry only a part of the production of
the field but it Is the plan of the opera
tors to have It In readiness to carry off
all of the oil by the first of the year.
In addition to this 600 barrel tract.
Mr. Harshbarger, Mr. Yates, John H.
Holt and H. C. Duncan, Jr., have an
other tract which Is producing 100 bar
rels dally. Herald Dispatch.
L. L. Klnser, of this city, was In Ash
land uyrt Saturday and this is what the
Independent had to say:
At the regular monthly meeting of
the United Commercial Travelers held
Saturday night, the members present,
had a most enjoyable sessiop-ehere be
ing about twenty onHSnd when the
goat was loosed. S
Mr. L. L. Klnseiof Louisa, who said
he was not afralQ of goats or anything
else was pjjjfted through some terri
tory that was entirely new to him while
the boys stood back and enjoyed hi.
troubles that were coming fast and
furious. ... . ,
However he was stout of heart and
strong of limb so he won his fight and
is now a run Hedged U. C. T.
WOMAN MISTAKEN FOR
BURGLAR, DIED.
Ironton, Nov. 24. Mrs. David Akera,
22, was shot Monday night by her
friend, Mrs. George Justice, who mis
took her for a burglar and. died at tho
Kellar hospital Wednesday night from
the effects of the wound. From the
first no hopes were held for her recov
ery. Mrs. Akers was the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Lutz.
BURNS ARE FATAL ' -
TO HUNTINGTON BOY.
Frank McKinney, the four year old
son of Air. and Mrs. Robert McKinney,
died last night as the result of burns
received last Wednesday when he fell
Into a kettle of hot water.
The child lingered for days, suffering
agonies despite the efforts of physi
cians. His body was horribly burned ,
In some places part of the flesh had '
been cooked and peeled from the body.
He was the only child.
S. S. CONFERENCE.
Rev. L, M.. Copley has returned from
Johnson City, Tenn., where he spent a
week In Sunday school conference, held
under the auspices of the American
Sunday School Union, with which Mr.
Copley has been connected for ten
years. Eleven States and the District
of Columbia were represented. Mr.
Copley, who is secretary of the confer
ence, spoke In the First Presbyterian
church on Sunday morning and ad
dressed the conference on Slonday ev
ening.
business and turns out a fine quality
of products day after day.
MARKET SATURDAY AFTERNOON.
On Saturday afternoon of this week
Miss Sallle Gearhart's Sunday school
class will conduct a market In the
building next door to Lonr's store, at
AGED WOMAN BURNED.
Guyandotte, West Va. Little hope Is
entertained for the recovery ol Mrs.
. i .-' . . . . . ...w..A ur. wna ur.
"MrnLXr" "" of her son.
him. Governor Stunley Is to nn the
vacancy in that Judicial district, when
It is created, by appointment until the
succeeding election. Enquirer.
on sale. Go and buy something for
your Sunday dinner and these girls will
very much appreciate your patronage.
DAVID HENSON DEAD.
James O. Compton, on Monday. She
was standing in front of an open tire
when her apron caught fire, envelop
ing her instantly. Her son and daugh
ter-in-law beat the flames with their
WORKMAN FATALLY HURT.
Ashland. Ky.. November 2f..-ueorgo
MARRIAGE LICENSES.
Escum J. Ross, 17, to Florence Hay,
i... amnlove at the A., C. & I. 18: Dock Peterman, 23, to Lizzie Fraz-
rnnchlne shops, wns fatally hurt this ler. 16; Willie Pennington, to Cynthia
morning In n elevator accident Evans, 19.
David Henson died nt his home on hands and tore the blazing clothing
Hurricane, W. Va., three miles from from her body. . .
Fort Gay, last Sundny. He was 81 LATER: Mrs. Compton died Tnes-
years old and was an excellent eltl- day night.
zen. The burial took place Wednes-I
day, conducted by Rev. H. B. Hewlett. I CIRCUIT COURT.
One son and one daughter survive Jjim. - T, e BI,eclal term of Lawrence Circuit
Court convened last Tuesday for the
CHRISTMAS BAZAR. trial of lVll cases. The bostardj' case
The Indies of the M. E. Church South of Jeanette Runyon against Deputy
will hold their annual bazar in the Sheriff A. S. Hatfield, of Plke-co ap
bullding next to Lonr's store on Fri- pealed from the County Court has oc
day ftnd Saturday. Dec. 8th and 9th. cupied the court up to this time and
Many nice articles appropriate for is not yet completed. The verdict of
ckvint tr n m ..in. win v,x nn mile neo. the lower court was that Hatfield
ters, cream and cake will be served.
JAMES BOOMED FOR HIGH HONOR
Washington, Nov. 28.-The Washing
ton Times, an afternoon paper owned
by Frank A. Munsey, published the fol
lowing story:
"Senator Ollle M. James, of Ken
tucky, the biggest man and one of the
youngest in the upper branch of Con
gress, is being powerfully supported
for president pro tempore of that body.
"There Is no doubt about the Demo
crats controlling the next Senate; but
the death of Senator Clarke, of Arkan
sas, makes It necessary that a new
president pro tern, shall be chosen. This
position will be unusually Important,
pc.rly because the Progressive-Republican
element will frequently be needed
to offset defections of conservative
Democrats and finally because It will
be of supreme Importance that the Sen
ate be under direction that will keep It
from falling utterly and of working
harmony with the House 4hat may be
Republican, and It is certain to be very
close.
BUSY TIME BEFORE MARCH 4.
Congressman W. J. Fields, of the
Ninth district, said he looked for a busv
session before March 4, and expressed
tne opinion that the greater part of
the big Administration measures In
contemplation will be passed by Con
gress during the winter.
'My idea is for Congress not to take
tne usual holiday vacation," he said,
"but to work right through, recessing
only for Christmas day. In that way,
with night sessions, a vast amount of
business can be transacted between the
first of December and thej first of
March."
"The hardest fight of the Republicans
will, center most likely on appropria
tion measures," he continued. "If we
have not time for them the present ap
propriations can be continued by reso
lution and each of them disposed of Id
a few minutes. That would give us the
session for putting through Adminis
tration progressive and reform legis
lation before we lose control, if we do."
Curier Journal.
ACCIDENT FATAL TO BOY.
Plkevllle, Ky., November 28. George
Akers, 14 years old. Is dead as the re
sult of a shotgun accident, and Willie
Keene, 14, Is In a critical condition ns
the result of a similar accident. Akers
met his death while withdrawing a gun
should pay ten dollars per month forifrcm under some brush, where it had
fourteen years. . Iheen hidden
ON TRIAL IN CHARLESTON.
Charleston, W. Va., Nov. 27. Bird
McBride, a typical character of the
mountains, and two of his sons are o-.i
trial in United States court here for al
leged nioonshlnlng. . They were Indict
ed on six counts each. .The revenue of
ficers had much difficulty in ffectlnsr
their arrest in the back vfaods nf
Mercer-co., but eventually .rraled
them and claim by doing so hive nut
an end to Illicit distilling in thVt part
of the county.
GOING TO WEST POINT.
Raymond Clay has returned to Cat
lettsburg from Lexington, Va., where
he has been attending the Virginia Mil
itary Institute, preparatory to, entrance
at West Point Mr. Clay will' pursue
the studies requisite for his examina
tion for West Point at home and ex
pects to apply himself assiduously. He
feels that he can do this better at
home, as so much time was taken ud
at the school in military duties. Young
Mr. uiay nopes to enter West Point
next summer. Independent
KENTUCKY REPUBLICANS.
Washington, November 28. In a val
eleventh-hour effort to carry Kentucky
the Republican National Commute,
drew heavily on Its campaign barrel.
according to the post election report ot
the national committee field with th
Clerk of the House.
The supplemental list shows that
1?,826 was sent to L. F. Petty In ad
dition to the $45,000 already reported.
November 4 a Louisville newsoaper
was paid $6,447.60 for advertising.
Neb Boxley was at home In Ft. Gov
thejlrst of tho week, but returned to
Huntington Tuesday, where he Is do.
lng some contract work.
