Official
Newspaper of
Olympia
VOL. LVI. NO. 37.
PROGRAM FOR EXTENSION SCHOOL ALL NEXT WEEK
Variety of Subjects to Be Considered in Six Days' Course Conducted
by Experts of the State College—Discussion of Questions Asked
by Local Farmers to Be an Interesting Feature—Special Dairy
Program for Saturday Afternoon.
1 rograrn lor the extension school to be conducted here by State
College experts every day next week, under the auspices of the
Agricultural Bureau of the Chamber of Commerce, shows a multitude
of subjects to be given consideration. The details were announced
this week in a public statement by the Bureau, in which emphasis
was laid on the fact that the course is free and that a large attend
ance is desired. An interesting feature of the school will be the dis
cussion each morning ol <j west ions asked by farmers attending the
course.
"In whatever line of agricultural work you are engaged there
is a subject in your interest," says the Bureau's announcement' "and
this subject is handled by an expert. The program is so arranged
that it will pay you to attend 'school' every day." And then it points
out that, through taxation, Ihurston county farmers are paying for
the course whether they take advantage of it or not and suggests
that "the larger the meetings, the more interest and therefor,- the
greater benefit.
To Arrange Evening Meetings.
In addition to the daily meetings, which are to be held in the
Chamber ot Commerce rooms, several special evening meetings
have been arranged. Associated in the school is the special
home economics course, also free, to be conducted at the Y M (' A
by Miss M. E. Sutherland, the program for which is given in another
column.
The evening meetings are: Tues
day, Grand Mound; Wednesday,
Yelm; Thursday, South Hay; Friday,
McLane Grange hall, and Saturday,
South Union. Several of the State
College experts will attend each
meeting and bring the course in still
closer touch with the farmers, A'hile
It Is also expected that Miss Suther
land, the homee conomics expert, will
be present and make short talks to
the women.
The morning sessions will begin at
9:30 and continue until 12, and the
afternoon sessions will run from 1:30
to 4. Approximately an hour will be
devoted to the discussion of e»ch
subject.
Opening Setwlon Monday Morning,
December 4. '
Announcement of plans, commit
tees, etc.
Crops for the Local Cannery, J. L.
Stahl, horticulturist. Western Wash
ington Experiment station of the
State College of Washington.
Hogs as a By-Product of a West
ern Washington Farm, James N.
Price, extension specialist In dairying
and live stock. State College of Wash
ington.
Monday Afternoon.
Irrigation in Western Washington,
EL B. Stookey, agronomist, Western
Washington Experiment statlbn of
the State College of Washington.
Small Fruits and Home Gardening,
J. L. Stahl.
Tuesday Morning.
Farmers' questions.
Crops for Soiling and Silage, E. B.
Stookey.
The Making and Feeding of Silage,
3. N. Price.
Tuesday Afternoon.
A Cropping System for a Thurston
County Dairy Farm, E. B. Stookey.
Feeding the Dairy Cow, J. N. Price.
Wednesday Morning.
Farmers' questions.
The Management of a Western
Washington Dairy Farm, H. L.
Blanchard, assistant superintendent,
Washington Experiment station of
the State College of Washington,
i Wednesday Afternoon.
Co-operative Live Stock Organiza
tions, J. N. Price.
Growing and Curing Hay for Dairy
Cows, H. L. Blanchard.
Thursday Morning.
Farmers' questions.
Poultry, H. L. Blanchard, or Mrs.
George R. Shoup, poultry specialist.
Western Washington Experiment sta
tion, State College of Washington.
Hygiene and Sanitation in the
Home, Miss M. E. Sutherland, exten
sion specialist In home economics.
State College of Washington.
Thursday Afternoon.
The Value of Quality In Dairy
Products, J. N. Price.
Poultry, H. L. Blanchard, or Mrs.
George R. Shoup.
Friday Morning. %
Farmers' questions.
Land Clearing, Professor I. D.
Charlton, agricultural engineer, the
Western Washington Experiment sta
tion, State College of Washington.
Utilizing the By-Products of the
Dairy. J. N. Price.
Friday Afternoon.
Poultry, H. L. Blanchard. or Mrs.
George R. Shoup.
WashiEfltoii
ESTABLISHED NOV. 17, 1860.
CITY ELECTION TO
BE HELD TOESMY
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS TO
SERVE TWO VEARS—COIW
( II,MEN FOR FOUR
Olympians will decide in their city
election next Tuesday the officials
whom they want to administer the
affairs of the city for the next two
years, and the councilmen they de
sire to represent the different wards
for the next four years, the election
being the first to be held under the
new biennial election law for third
class cities, passed by the last legis
lature. Heretofore both the officials
and councilnten have been elected
for just ono year.
Two tickets are in the field—the
Citizens', headed by Cftunci'man
George N. Talcott for mayor, and the
Republican oy Jesse T. Mills. Eac!i
has a complete councllmanic ticket in
the field, but the Citizens' has no can
didate for treasurer against Mrs.
Lona Smith, and the Republican no
candidate for clerk against W. A.
Hoage. The complete tickets are
published among the City Legal No
tices on page 6.
The campaign to date has been re
markable for the absence of the sen
sational circulars which featured the
municipal elections of the last four
years. The Citizens' candidates have
issued a matter-of-fact statement of
their policy and the local situation
as they see it, comparing the admin-!
istratlons of the last four years with
those of the previous 15, when the j
city administrations were Republi- j
can. The Republican candidates
have not replied to this circular nor
have they issued a formal statement
of any kind so far in the campaign.'
At this election the mayor, attor-;
ney, clerk, treasurer and councilman- ■
at-large will be elected for two-year
terms and the ward councilmen for
four years. The contests between
the councllmanic candidates In the :
different wards have so far been '
more lively than the general cam- i
palgn in the city, but the next few !
days, it is expected, will see much j
electioneering.
Better Live Stock and Why, J. N. f
Price. , j
Saturday Morning.
New In Agriculture, J. N. j
Price.
Subject to be announced, Mrs. E.
Jones, state leader of Boys'
and Girls' club work.
Saturday Afternoon.
Special dairy program for mem
bers of Thurston County Cow-Testing
association, the Dairymen's associa
tion and all other dairymen.
Discussion of advisability of com
munity breeding of cattle.
The special program for Saturday
afternoon was arranged at the re
quest of President L. R. Campbell of
the Cow-Testing and Dairymen's
associations and he is anxious to have
every dairyman In the county attend.
Home Economics.
At Y. M. C. A., in charge of Miss
M. E. Sutherland.
"HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS FALL WHERE THET MAT.
OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1916.
ELLtS CHIEF JUSTICE.
Kays He Will be Chosen Head
of Supreme Court.
Gossip among members of the
bench and bar indicates that Justice
O. G. Ellis, formerly of Tacoma, will
be elected chief justice when the
court reorganizes next January.
An unwritten law among the jus
tices is that one of the retiring mem
bers shall preside. Justice Wallace
Mount, O. G. Ellis and John F. Main
will have to stand for re-election two
years hence, so the choice lies among
the three. Justice Mount has been
on the bench since 1901 and has twice
served as chief justice, so in the mat
ter of ethics he has no claim for that
honor next year. Justice Ellis out
ranks Justice Main, so in the natural
course of events the honor is sched
uled to go to Justice Ellis.
YANTIS OBJECTS TO
PUBLISHED REPORTS
PROSECUTOR RESENTS CHARGES
THAT HE FAILED TO KEEP
RECORDS PROPERLY.
Published statements based on pur-
ported criticisms by the state bureau
of inspection that Prosecuting Attor
ney George F. Yantis had failed to
keep the records of mothers' pen
sions properly are vigorously resent
ed by that official as being untrue,
Mr. Yantis contending that he had
(furnished the county auditor with the
complete information required, either
|in the court orders, judgments or
j findings of fact in each case, and that
if there are any discrepancies or mis
takes, they have been made by the
■ auditor and not by him.
| An Instance of over-payment to one
woman covering a period of three
months, cited in the published re
ports, was pointed out by the bureau
in its review of the auditor's office.
Concerning it, Mr. Yantis states that
the county eudltor had all the in
formation necessary in the judgment
in the case fllefl with her by him, and
that "the over-payment is due to the
auditor's negligence."
In another case cited by the bu
reau. in which It was said that in
formation had not been given as to
when the mother's child would be 15
years old. Mr. Yantis refers to the
record, which shows the child's age
to have been seven years, and which
gives the further Information that
the pension .vas granted for only two
months, because the section of the
law under which it was granted was
repealed.
In four other cases cited in the bu- j
reau's review of the auditor's office, I
Mr. Yantis asserts that the records
furnished the auditor were made out
on a regular blank form, that when
the bureau suggested changes to him
he consulted the court, but the latter
refused to substitute other orders,
and adds that the forms are all based
on the findings of fact in the court
judgments, which the auditor may
consult if she desires.
GOVERNOR VISITS STATE
TROOPS AT THE BORDER
-«■ "
Chief Executive and Party Guewts of
Washington Militia at
Calexico.
Governor Ernest Lister, who is ex
pected to return to Olympla the lat
ter part of this week from a tour of i
California with Mrs. Lister and Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Lamborn, was the
guest of honor of Troop B of Tacoma
and the signal corps of the Second
Washington infantry at Calexico last
Sunday.
The chief executive of the Wash
ington troops was escorted to his ho
tel on his arrival in the morning by
a guard of honor. At noon he ad
dressed the officers and men of both
organizations, being escorted to the
camp of Troop B by Captain Hart
well W. Palmer, Colonel Wilder and
Lieutenants Cramer and Cronander. j
He ate dinner with the troop and sup
per with the signal corps, as the guest j
of Captain Jackson.
The Governor cheered the men of,
the Washington organizations with i
praise for the record made on thej
border and told of plans whereby the j
Washington militia will be recruited
to full war strength within five years.
He told of reports made to him by
SCHOOLS CLOSED THIS WEEK.
Teachers Attend Institute—Then
Conies Thanksgiving Vacation.
Schools of the city and county
have been closed this week while the
teachers attended the annual county
Institute in this city Monday, Tues
day and Wednesday. The remainder
of the week was given over to the
usual Thanksgiving vacation.
More than 200 teachers and lead
ing educators from all parts of the
state have been taking part in the in
stitute, which is rated one of the
most successful recently held here,
from the entertainment standpoint as
well as the educational. The insti
tute closed Wednesday afternoon,
quite a number of the teachers re
maining in the city, while others
went to Tacoma or Seattle.
WANT GOVERNMENT
TO DEAL IN FOOD
DEVELOPMENTS IN PRORE OF
HIGH PRICES ARE RAPID
THIS WEEK.
Developments In the investiga
tions by the federal government,
state and city authorities, into
charges that the current high prices
of foodstuffs are due to speculators
who have "cornered" huge amoftits
of the nation's food supply, have
been rapid this week.
Formal appeal for government reg
ulation of the country's food supply
has been forwarded to President Wil
son by the representatives of 2,000,-
000 women of the National House
wives' league.
Simultaneously Patrick E. Quinn,
government commissioner for New
South Wales, explained the Austra
lian system of food control and rec
ommended its adoption by the United
States. The plea of the housewiveß
and tbe remedial system outlined by
Quinn dovetail with Governor Whit
man's move for the regulation of New
York's food supply by a state food
commission.
At the same time an egg boycott
was spreading rapidly and promised
to become country wide.
As another phase of the situation.
Senator James Hamilton Lewis of
Illinois, a former of Seattle
and well known here in Olympia, de
clared he would itnroduce at the
coming session of congress a bill pro
viding for the government purchase
of food and its sale at a* reasonable
price.
He expressed his belief that it
would be inadvisable for congress to
pass an embargo on the shipment of
grain lest it bring retaliation and
financial disaster to the United States.
Senator Lewis said we should not
pass such an act, neither would the
president sign it.
His plan is for the government to
offer a fair price for food, and if that
is declined, to condemn and seize it,
submit the evidence to juries and let
them decide on a just price. He
would have the government establish
stations throughout the country,
where the food would be sold to the
consumer.
Adding still another development,
government investigators discovered
30,000,000 dozen of eggs, enough to
supply every man, woman and child
in the United States with more than
three eggs each, in a cold storage
warehouse In Chicago. The eggs
were bought last May at 20 cents a
dozen and are understood to be held
by James E. Wetz. self styled "egg
king."
Government agents regarded the
discovery as the most important they
have made in their Investigation In
Chicago of the high price of eggs,
ruling around 50 cents per dozen. In
the belief that Wetz may not be the
real owner but only a figurehead act
ing for more powerful firms. Assist
ant United States District Attorney
Lally prepared to Bubpoena officials
of a big refrigerator company.
various regular army officers conver
sant with border conditions, who had
assured him that the Washington
troops stood second to none on the
border. He had nothing but praise
for the conditions of the camps here
and expressed the belief that the
Washington contingent would soon
receive orders to return home.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
STATE PARTY FIGHT CARRIED UP TO PRESIDENT
Charges of "Pernicious Political Activity" Are Preferred Against
Roscoe M. Drumheller and D. J. Williams, Federal Officials
Lengthy Explanation Offered and Investigation Requested—
Fight Not for Patronage but to Remove Reactionaries Front
Control of Party Organization, It Is Declared.
WASHINGTON, D. C., Nov. 30.—Fight of the progressive Dem
ocrats of Washington to oust J. B. Fogarty as state chairman and to
gain control of the party organization of the state reached the
national capital today when President Wilson received a letter from
J. B. Trenholme of Seattle, preferring charges of "pernicious polit
ical activity" against Roscoe M. Drumheller of Seattle, collector of
customs for the state, and D. J. Williams of Tacoma, collector of
internal revenue. The charges are sensational and will probably lead
to a governmental investigation.
Coupled with the charges of "pernicious political activity" is
the further one that these officials are responsible for the defeat of
George Turner, Democratic candidate for United States senator in
th recent campaign, in that "they used the power of their respective
offices and the power of their positions and standing to intimidate
and coerce members of the Democratic state committee to vote for
the election of John B. Fogarty as state chairman, who, after his
election, declined to aid in any manner to advance the candidacy of
Senator Turner."
Four other charges are preferred and then a lengthy explanation
is made of the events leading up to the meeting of the state central
committee when Fogarty was re-elected chairman by a plurality of
1 vote, and then points out that Governor Lister broke away from
Fogarty, appointed his own campaign manager and committee and
conducted an independent campaign. Fogarty, it is further alleged,
PROGRAM OF COURSE :
IN HOME ECONOMICS
WOMEN URGED TO ATTEND THE
MEETINGS TO BE CONDUCTED
BY MISS M. E. SUTHERLAND
Women of the city and county are
urged to attend the special Home
Economics course to be conducted in
the basement of the Y. M. C. A.
building every afternoon next week
by Miss M. E. Sutherland, specialist
in home economics of the State Col
lege of Washington. This course
will be held here In conjunction with
the agricultural extension school at
the Chamber of Commerce, and will
be free.
The Y. M. C. A. room has been
fitted up especially for the purposes
of the course and the meetings will
begin at 2 o'clock each afternoon
and continue for an hour and a half.
Miss Sutherland is recognized as one
of the best instructors in her line of
work, lecturing and demonstrating,
and women generally are urgently
invited to take advantage of the op
portunity of hearing her and wit
nessing her demonstrations.
Monday Utilizing the Cheaper
Cuts of Meats. This will include the
cutting of a four-quarter of beef.
Tuesday—Meat Substitutes. Dif
ferent dishes will be cooked.
Wednesday—Bondage of Fashion,
illustrated by free drafting of pattern
and cutting of a simple home dress.
Thursday—Cooking of the Com
mon Vegetable in New Ways.
Friday—Salads and Desserts.
Saturday—Feeding of Diets for
School Children.
MSIN6 CAMPAIGN
OPENS SHIN6LE MARKET
Manufacturers, Satisfied, to Continue
Publicity for Rite-Grade
Brand.
So satisfactory have been the re
sults of the $60,000 advertising cam
paign started last February by the
shingle manufacturers of the Pacific
Northwest that a fund of similar size
will be raised to continue the cam
paign during 1917, to popularize the
Rite-Grade brand still further.
Practically all of the mills tbat
took part In the 1916 campaign have
signified their desire to continue the
nation-wide advertising that has done
so much to bring red cedar shingles
before the public. In addition, many
of the shingle makers who refused to
join in the movement last year have
decided to take part during the com
ing season.
The campaign will again be han
dled by H. P. Wyckoff, secretary of
the shingle branch of the West Coast
Lumbermen's Association. The Rite-
Grade brand is manufactured by all
mills taking part in the campaign and
is considered, one of the best shingles
made. All shingles bearing this
brand are inspected by a representa
tive of the association to see that they
are up to standard.
WHOLE NUMBER 2936
failed to promote the campaigns of
the Democratic candidates for con
gress and for state offices, while
Drumheller and Williams, it is de
clared, expressed "the belief that
they were as much candidates for
election" as the nominees, "and that
they governed their actions accord
ingly and to the detriment of the
condidateiß for senate and congress."
Holds Back Progressives.
The activity of these officials, It is
then charged, "has destroyed the
confidence of the rank and file of the
Democratic party in their trustworth
iness and has caused the many thou
sands of Progressive voters in the
state of Washington that are ready
to enter • the ranks of progressive
Democracy, to hesitate in the thought
which they now have in respect to
becoming members of the Democratic
party."
"This, Mr. President, is not a light
for the control of federal patronage,"
Trenholme's letter declares. "It is
mereyl the request for the recogni
tion of the vast majority of the Dem
ocratic party in the state of Wash
ington.
"The progressive Democrats in
this state," the letter goes on to say,
"realize full well that if the Demo
cratic party here shall retain the con
fidence that you, aided and upheld
by our progressive Democratic gov
ernor, Ernest Lister, have won for it
through your splendid administra
tion, the people of the state must
know that the discredited politicians
and reactionary party leaders are not
kept in positions of affluence and
Influence in the affairs of the govern
ment, in so far as these federal offi
cials affect this portion of the nation.
People Watching Fight.
"The fight must be made now,"
the letter adds. "The people of the
state of Washington are anxiously
watching the outcome."
The letter in full is as follows:
November 24, 1916.
To the President of the United States
of America,
Washington, D. C.
Honored Sir:
I desire to prefer the following
charges against Roscoe M. Drumhel
ler, collector of customs for the state
of Washington, and D. J. Williams,
collector of internal revenue for the
stat» of Washington:
First, I charge that these officials,
during the year 1916, were guilty of
pernicious political activity at the
Democratic state convention in May
at North Yakima, and at the meet
ing of the Democratic state commit
tee at Seattle in September, in direct
violation of the rules governing the
conduct of these federal officials as
contained In written instructions to
them by the Secretary of the Treas
ury.
Second. I charge these officials
with the responsibility for the defeat
of Hon. George Turner for United
States senator In the state of Wash
ington. In that they used the power
of their respective offices and the
power of their positions and standing
to Intimidate and coerce members of
the Democratic state committee to
vote for the election of John B.
Continued on Page Seven.
Published
Continuously
For 55 Years
