THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TV KXT WSE V KNTI I YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TIUDAY MOliNTXCJ, I) IX 'EMBER 1, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVU., NO. 1915
TREND'S
RETREATS TO JUAREZ, VILLA
HAS TAKEN CHIHUAHUA CITY
REFUGEES REPORT
OF DEAD BURNED IN STREETS OF
CITY. BANDITS CAPTURE CANNON
(Republican Associated Pre;s Leased Wire)
JUAREZ. Mex., Nov. 30- Ancient Juarez was in the back warn of battle
today. Tonight the camp fires of another remnant army burn on the plains to
the south. Grim, gray cannon are parsed in the customs house yard with
garlands of "jerked beef" hanging from the muzzles of the guns which hurled
death from their muzzles so recently.
In box cars women camp followers of the Carranza soldiers cooked their
meagre meal tonight over charcoal braziers, while barefooted children many
born in battle shivered from the cold as they hovered in the lee of the big
naval guns.
Since early morning this old border town has been tho scene of military
activities. Soon after seven today the first troop train brought the ragged
survivors of the de facto force which had fought at Chihuahua City against
Villa and had escaped to the north. Accompanying this train was a sanitary
section consisting of three second elasi coaches and one "White Cross" hos
pital car. In these cars came more than 100 wounded sold.ers of the Car
ranza command who were rescued from the hcaos of dying and brought to the
border by their comrades. The hospitals are filled with wounded and volun
teer nurses are working to care for the officers and men who fell before the
lain of bandit bullets.
The troop train which brought this survivino force to the border left
Chihuahua Citv at 10:30 Monday morning, proceeding to a point near Ter
razas station, where a burned bridge forced them to transfer to another
train Wednesday. '
The officers of the Carranza command which, for some reason, was sent
here, and foreign refugees who came on an earlier train, gave accounts of the
four days and nights of fighting which proceeded the evacuation of the cap
ital city which are practically the same and which, pieced together, give a
fairly connected account of the siege cf Chihuahua City.
According to these officers and refugees the scenes in Chihuahua City
when they left were awful. The dead had been piled in the streets and oil
poured over them and the early dawn was illuminated by these human
torches, they said.
t'ctween the cemetery am! Santa i"" ' ' "
Ro.-a hill, the dead covered the streets.
many having died dhys before and thei
'nch. the ref jgees paid, was so strong
ir was impossible to approach near.
Along the streets near the raiiroad sta
tion, and surrounding the station, one
refuges said he saw many cavalry
horses with carbines and sabers at
tached to Ihe saddles, the Carranza
cavalry men having abandoned them !
in order to leave the city on the trs.pj
train. Along Zarco a:io'.', a.vorilii.u;
to the refugees, the fighting bad been '
fiercest and many civilians had been j
r.iueo mere ana in oior. p.,.. ... ...c
city I y shell fire and rifle balls. The.
houses lining this h reel were p liter
Syrian refugee said, and many shell
holes were to be seen in the huiises in
the heart of the city.
All i t the refugees agreed that Chi
huahua troops were winning d tritig the
first four da s of the fighting but.
eitiier because of a shortage of ammu
nition or lack of morale, thev aban
doned the city early on the fifth morn
ing of the battle, seeking hafety in
flight in all directions. Tile taking of
Santa Rosa hill, which has always b?en
known as the " key to Chihuahua" was
raid by one foreign refugee to have
rlarted the retirement of the Carranza
forces which, they sav, resembled
rotit lfore ihe last ttain left. The rav- I
Hlrv. artillery and infantry poured
down tin streets leading to the station,
which Is Dot of the city proper, thev
said, and climbed auoard the train in
it.l w.nml.l. ir,.t nuui' line
civilian refugee claimed General (Ion-1
7ales Cuell.ir was responsible for the
laking of Santa Rosa hill, where he
was In command as he allowed the in
fantry lines to lie weakened. When the
artillery was turned on the city, this
refugee addeJ. the moral effect was
almost Immediately noticeable and the
Carranza soldiers who had been er.'er
for battle Sunday night, dropped their
rill's and lien, i me retuee cia ime.i (
to hnve sef n officers leae their rmnldenera! Cundara was killed.
fighting to f!e for safety. This, how
ever, could not he verified.
It. is believed bv the refugees and
Cnrranz.-i officer that General Trevino
left first for Tabaloat'd south nf the
clly and from there moved to A'dama,
about 20 miles from Chihuahua City.
Another report said the Carranza com
mander was at Hacienda Dolores, west
of the cltv.
ine Mexican civilian refugee de
clarer! today he had l-'ranelsco
(Republican A ?. Leased Wire
'';";; r-rrn'mf UHl
fled that He Rt.msn an army is st 1
ihsolutelv Intact, Major General K
I'-
viatince., cmer iiiiraiir i m .nary
oiKrallons at the war office, told the
Assoviated press today that any fur
ther advance by the Germans would
rran n considerable success for them.
General Maurice said:
"There is no ise inir.lmizinT the
fact that the further ndvanee of the
Germans means n conniiierable success
us a step rttrd givei them the
corn district, while a still further uteri j
means their posesslon of the oil belts.
Ruisia is moving, however, und the I
fact that the Human!. in army Is still1
intact Is encouraging.
"Kven the German reports claim to
have taken only twelve hundred men
and n few giins, which meami that mv
prediction of last v.eek, that no more
than the ri;r guard would be cay-j
tilted, has been more thrift fulfilled.
"The Rumanians have been occupy
ing a dangerous salient, with one army
hammering from the noith. while an
other was ("timing ui from the liunub?
t ed Its safe evH"uatlon is no mean
feat of arms. Whether this Intact
nrrav means to make a stand before
the rapltol, remains to be seen,
Pursuing the tactics with which
we have become familiar on the west
(Continued on I'age Two) I f Continued on I'age Two) j
i
T N 1 T T
Tr Tfinn nil irnnr nr nunnron
i hi Minis J!-HLi- uu s ms
ii ii i niisi inn yi niii in .iiiiini .i.i
I UU I UIIU Ull I UIIUL U I UUUULUU
SHATTER
LV
SEEING PILES
Chihuahua Paper
Gives Account of
Battle by Days
rp.eoi;blic?n A . Leasid Wire!
f:i, l'ASo. Nov. 30. An extra printed '
by Kl Democraia in Chihuahua city
last Sunday Kftemoon and hrouKht to
wit t. I.e r-f.o.e.
tnemlmit: -Al.Jln ,he hur f tn. ,
for ,he vaHa,(l ,.,,-
tionalist forces." The substitute head-
ingsread: "The society of Chihuahua. '
at the cost of the blond of manv brave
m..r, i v.,i , I iim
Tnm lootin and ns.sossim.tion: In I
these moments, the hordes of Arango, I
I r.eriously reduced, make their lust ef
fort to slake their thirst for rapine." ,
The extra, printed on one side of a
I simile sheet, gives the history of the
i...i.. .t.... .... .i.... i... ....i.. i.. .. ., I
follows:
. . . . ....i. .
forces between Chihuahua and I ..reus-
itas reported sighting the enemy, it '
..i.i Ti,. i ,ii, ......... ....... i ...
o.i,.. inr ...inuitn u IJ..-IH i r-i .loin
their trains
twar(1 orcasitas. V-d by cavalry, un-1
der .Martin and Julio Acosta.
ind'w' ltrV,nU 1,r',,art',, h'S
' , i '' ., . , .. . .,, I
At dawn on the "3rd. the artilh ry .
chief on Santa itosa hill reported
su;iiiiiil; lare groups 01 cavalry, Aiioui
S:30 in the mnniing. Ceneral Ozuna
exchanged shots with them southwest
of the city. The enemy did not at
tack formally until ubout 10 o'clock.
The artillery on Santa Itosa went into
action at 1 1 : SO. fighting became hot-,
test at the point held by fiencrnl MHy-
cotte and (Vlorel Isidro Trevlno. They
charged ihe bandits, meeting part of;
rnem nano to nana. in tnis aollori
M....ar.l I.. .... T..,i.... I.!- .....'l'
... iiT-i... ,. in... j i.-.iiim uou inn 7,Ln..
headed a charire at 1 o'clock In the
afternoon. In which he received u scalp
and ear wnmd.
The artillery showed great precision
Kighting lasted until after dark'.
win n the bandits seized the church of
the Sanctuary and some houses iieiir
the military hospital.
The 24ih at 5 a. m. the battle opened
up with rifle and artillery fire. The
.front, tlie flerman oflieial co'mmun- 'U,l'j', rc.
' Unned Mo'if toUi kewood.N.
, lt,t our suc eyses ! HalonikI havf.j.. ixAltx.nMl Ms trio because .., Mr
nrilV nlttftlnol t.nriif.l .a.t,.l..A K... I
as a mutter of fact, we have won the
nosltions ,i,r,..i ,v, ui.i
Positions desired. Ihe Merl.inn ami
t rench Zouaves, taking a Very Imfsntant
hill on one wing, while the Italians
won their objective on the other."
Car Shortage is Cause for
Action by R. R. Committee
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 30.-Niition-wldc
redistribution of box oirs Is Tn-'
quired by a new order agreed upon
l.y tho railroad conference committee
on car efficiency in its campaign to
relieve the car shortage which is hold
ing up freigl t shipments in many
.arts of the country. TheTorder, which
will be Issued tomorrow to berom?
o'rectlve Immediately, directs lines In
sections where there Is an excess of
such equipment, to return at Junctlo.i
MY
nit
GERMAN ARMY WELL FED
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
HKRI.IN. Nov. 29. (via Umdnn,
Nov. an.) The Germans will go
through the winter without change
in their present rations of impor
tant foodstuffs, except a reduction
In the potato ration, according to
authoritative Information furnish
ed the Associated 1'ress on the
food situation from the war nutri
tion bureau.
The grain harvest shows an ex
cess of 5,000,000 tons over last year,
tint two years' experience hits
proved that the present ration is
adequate and that it will, there
fore, be unnecessary to increase it.
-n
Reoubltcan A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. V Hilary
rule has l een proelulrmd in Sat.to I
nnngu bv the lulled Slates navv to
isuppiesa existing political chaos in the
) little republic and pave the way for
gitaianteeing future T-iict by cstahllsh
j intc there such a financial ami police
j protectorate hh the American govern-
ment now exercises oer Haiti.
I Kighteen hundred American marine.
will maintain older for the present and
at least until ejections are held Ii;
t ..'. nuarv , thcli offitvra w ill supervise
It lie conduct of the government by
naval oiYicials and dlsrmrse the cus
toms revenue.-, which American re
ceivers have he. a collecting by treaty
arranyrnient for nine yeutx.
The navy proclamation Issue.! yes
terday apparently has been put Into
clfect without bloodhcd. It was an
nounced here today by s-or"tary
tinuicia in tne Timi.wir.fr statement:
''apta.n 11. S. Knapp. in iomm.in.1
"r the 1 nitr1 forces in Su.:
Iw-mingn. remits that In compliance
w,th instructions received, military
"nm.;ni was proclaimed by him in
J?"' l'mn I'- m.. November i
"KaicMi me carrying oi
:'r,nK1 " havinu them In possession
' n put tn c: feet. Payment j
salaries f c iermnetit offu-iuls will
reamed Immediately.
"The proclamation was well received.
Conditions are reported as iielng nor
mal and the great majority of the
Iw-ople fegarfl i he pioclamation with
favor."
Although no publicity has been glv-
I'.
tj tlio gin ernnienl's decision to
t.d .pt such measures. Captain Knapp s
HiiV l rtuU
. i AJ ? ' '"T.V
ment officials atet conlerence with
"'rf T', l'Z''. .t 'Ti
lfi(.erH on (lu. .,. ,.,, Knu
reeenyy sent to leheve liear Admial
I'oml in lAtnlnlcan waters, carried
vvith hm 4.un le(p ,HlrU(1l tJT hu
(ask
U'tiU officlnls made It plain tonight
th.it the Wushineton government is
determined that there shall lie no re
newal of revolutions in the Islands.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
L TAIIKYIOW N, N. Y., Nov. 30.
J",'n Archbolil, president cf the
(Standard fill company of New Jersey
""d '-tlve head or the Standard fbl
'i'"m,"'y lM dng-'r"sly ill tit his
none ncre uiiuougn tils conar.ion Is
somewhat better tonight than it was
twenty-four hours uv't.
Mr. Archhold was operated on for
S'PpcndicltlK a week a-,o and for a
time seemed to rully from the effects
of the operation, but later suffered
:i relapse. Tiie five phvslcbuis who
!uve been attending him since his
Illness hogfn, decided yesterday that
blood transfusion must be resulted to
I if his strength was to lie restored.
Mr. Arehliolrt was reisjrted tonight
jto have collapsed under the strain or
her husband s lilness and to be tinder
A . -..!,.. 1.1' .1111
John r. Arrhh.ilJ uulil lonlirlit llmt
I U .tltc'u ...,n.ll.t,. .. ...... . tn K
about the same as It had been slnte
: the blood transfusion operation was
'performed
points until' further notb e specified
percentages of box cars In excess of
the number received bv them.
This action followed a. series of
conferences between the committee,
repiesfiitatlves of the interstate com
merce commission and representative)
of shlppern which already has result
ed In orders ty the commit te; tie
signed to facilitate the regulation of
all elassra of rolling stock to their
owners and In the iipprovrl by the
commission of a temporary scale of
Increased iltmurrnge rates.
HEITARl RDEE
PRDCEAIIED IN
SANTOD01NGO
i
i
HEAD 0 Sill
OiL M DEATH
VON ICKEIfSEN
MENACES FORTS
OE BUCHAREST
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The forces of Field" Mashal Von
Mackensen are almost within shellu.g
dihlance of the southern foils which
protect Bucharest, the capllol of Ku
nianla. Iiriving aloui; the redoiini
leading north from liliilgi.i. Von
Mackensen bus captured Ihe to.in of
Tzomana, 16 miles south of I'uciiurcH.,
and al last accounts wis still maKing
pingress toward his objective.
Meanwhile, the army of General
Von I'alkeuhayn Is keeping up its
piessure against the Kumuuian wes.
and northwest of the capitol, in the
center having forced the Rumanians
to fall back to i.lavatieuu, :!, miles
from liucharest, anil farther nort.i
having captured the town of Caiupii
luig, thus opening the wi;y for the
unhindered advance of additional
troops of thv central powers tliroug.i
the Tor.burg pest into Wall uhia.
The offensive begun by the Itus
slitns in the region of Klrlibalia ap
parently Is not impeding to any ex
tent the Teutonic Inroads into Itu
mania. AdiliLional gains are conceded
to the I'.iissian in this region, hut
aguin It is asserted that they have
been dearlv paid for in tasualtits.
Th flumanias on the north and
northwest fronts hive made piogress
in the l'uzen and 1'rahovu valleys.
In none of the other tbeateis has
there been any fighting of great in
tensity, so far as the ff.cial remits
show. The big guns of the belligerents
on the front in France and Helgn m
are still active at variinis points. The
near Ypres, where, in an attack on
a two-mile from the Kritish were re
pulsed according to lierlin. lioth I!er
lin and Sofia lecord the repulse if
entente allied attacks in the region
of Monastir. Serbia, where rain and
fog are hindering the operational.
In the Russian theater Turkish
troops have stopned strong Russian
nttneks tui the Z'.ota Li pa r.ver in
CJalUia.
The mm discussed bill proviiilng
for compulsory stvice of civilians
lor war service in Germany, kno.vii!
i opul.iriy as the "man power bill."
has been Introduced in the reich-dag.
In lutr.'ducing it Chum elh.r von iieth-mann-Hollweg
again reiterate,! that
lierniany wss ready to end the w.ir
Ih a i eai e guarunleing the existenc e
a nd
future oi ine i;rmaii imi.hii.
f-eeuMlcar A. P. Leasee Wire
LONIxfN'. Ilec. 1. An Athens dis
patch to the I i.uly Chronicle under date
of November Sii, ascribes the following
statement to Vice Admiral Imi Kournet,
in command of the allied fleet In Greek
waters:
"1 insist absolutely upon the execu
tion of my demands and will see thut
they are realized in spile of all ob
stacles, l-ronch. British and Italian
detachments wtll be landed at au points
necessary. I will endeavor to avoid
bUsslsheil, but will fulfil my mission
thoroughly."
The Athens correspondent of the
iKUly Mail Interviewed Vice Admiral
liu Kournet aboard his flagship and
tiuotes him similarly to the correspon
dontr of the Chronicle. The admiral
said that he did not intend either to
seiae the arms or fire upon Ihe Greek
troops, hut declared that unless the
guns were surrendered he would land
large detachments which would not re
embark until his demands were com
plied with. Other coercive measures
would lie taken at the same time.
"As I have most ample forcea at my
disposal." the admiral said, "and some
of the heaviest and most powerful ar
tlHery In existence, I can see no reason
why the arms will not be quietly giv
en up."
FLOODS IN SPAIN.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
1IADRID, Nov. 30, (via. London).
Serious floods are ravaging eastern
Spain, particularly the province of
Valencia. At Aleira the railroad sta
tion and several houses collapsed and
the sople took refuge on roofs and
church steeples. Communications have
been cut at various pluces. The floods
have destroyed dikes and covered the
whole country aide. At Murcia the
waters are still rising. Thousands of
families have been reduced to beg
gary. Under U. S. Flag
Former Enemies
Are Best Friends
Peotibllran A. . Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO. Nov. 3. Members
nf truck company No. 2 of the I'nited
States army celebrated Thanksgiving
day today by attending a wedding, in
which two former enemies during thf
Hoer war were participated ne the
groom and his best man. Standing on
the truck driven by the bridegroom,
Carl J. Sttider, was married to Miss
Alvlna Kendonburg of New York, by
the Rev. John H. Kendall, chaplain of
the Second Wisconsin Infantry.
Sttider was a. soldier In the Vfr
nrmy during the South African war
and in the battle of f'ardeherg fought
against the Knglisn command in
which Nicholas Kale was a soldier.
They became acquainted when they
came to America to live and whatever
imimosily mlpht have existed because
of past affiliations was wiped out
when both took allegiance to I'ncle
Sam aa soldiers under the Stars and
Stripes, the friendship culminated to
day In Kale acting ua best man for
Studer In the ceremony at Camp
Wilson.
rnrmnii infininii
ACTION BY GBEEKS DIE TODR Of COPPER REGION
GRIM DEATH STALKS
GROUNDS
TURTLE
-n
i DRENNAN FROM OKLAHOMA i
I
i AMARILLO. Tex.. Nov. 30. I
! W. M. Drennan. 2 killed at Phoe- 1
n.x in an automobile ucset, is the t
tor. cf R. H. Drennan, wealthy I
: member of the Oklahoma City
- board of trade. Drennan raced in i
! and about Amarilto durlnq the '
1 summer with Tony Workman. !
j ;
Manaqer Joe Prochaska wss in- !
I formed by wire from R. H. I
; Drennan yesterday, that it was the t
desire of the parents of younq !
j Drennan that his boy be sent o I
j Oklahoma C'tv for bjrial. Either I
Prochaska or Driver Armstronq I
will accompany tho remains. At I
a meeting of drivurs last night, t
' resolutions of condolence were :
' passed. I
Ll
LIVESTOCK EXPERTS
mIS C
m C ED
victory, cutting somewhat from his
. M0 mile record of November Is. R. K.
TRepubllcyn A. P Leased Wire I Lambert, driving a Spa, finishad sec
KA.NSAS CITY. Nov. 3D. Optimism j ortd and Roy Meacham in a Mercer
wag evinced by federal and slate live- was third.
stock exiMrts today regarding the con-i l'ete- Thoma.son in a Ford finished
dltlon or cattle here, suffering from an
lufecilon which, it was feared, might
develop Into foot and mouth disease.
No further symptoms wre noticed
in the infected herd, nor was there any
developments in the calves, horses and
swine inoculated with virus laken from
the suspected animals.
Veterinarians announced that in case
no further development was noticed in
the cattle under surveillance by Satur
day, they would lie satisfied that the
Infection was other thun f.xit and
mouth dlseuse.
Fresh from
Tu ition ot a tb
the Magnate
Twin Runes
Ihe successful consum -
i w hereby they took over
copi er mine in the ; lertaliuy Iielng the making ot another
dislriit near Tucson, ail'tah. It is a. porphyry ot vast extent
party of twenty eight, representing
lig eastern capitalists, arrived in two
i-pecial cars yesterday. They were en
tertained i.t the Thanksgiving dinner
al the Hotel Adams and later at the
country club, and this morning, leave
for I'rescott and Jerome, where they
will Inspeit a number of other prop
erties. K. I. Chapman of Tucson and Phoe
nix and I'.ngine. r Arthur S. Noble
will represent the interests of this
fcrnup in some stuiH'iidous mining
deals in Arizona, it was announced
List ni;:ht. Half a dozen large copper
pri'pccics will probably be taken over
during th- next year, and . operations
wlil be on an aggreslve scale. Al
though not formally announced, It
was underslis.il last night that the
news would soon he given out that
ti.e capitalists had taken over the
New Cornelia Kxtension, at Ajo, where
It is relieved a tremendous mlnerai-
Ized area will be oietled lip.
Chapman announced last night that
Ilr. K I. llier of the firm of Huchea
and liter of i'hil:ideiil.i. would bring and other improvements Installed dur
a patty of not less than 100 men to lug the last two years are n revela
Ari.ona to look at copper properties t Inn even to one who has kept in
within the r.cxt two months. (clo.'e touch with the operation of that
The following interesting statement camo from a distance,
wns muie by Arthur S. Noble, the I "The banking house of Hughes &
expert-if the party: ' Ob r over two years ago looked fjion
Refore we go Into matters, It might
tie well to have an understanding. I
look i pnn the copper industry as be
ing the most important of any In the
state. Copper mining has brought us
In yoi'r midst. In discussing copper
mining, I do not wish to be classed
as a tenderfoot. My father was a pio
neer of the Northwest and a success
ful mining man. and 1 was associated
with him In mining operations for a
considerable period of time. The con
ducting ot those operations in the
Northwest makes me appreciate Ari
zona as a copper field to a greater
extent than if I had not had this ex
perience. The cop-ier minim, especially
at Vancouver. have their greatest
values on the surface and there are
few such long lived and extensive
copper mines in the Northwest us are
found in Arizona.
"We stopped at DoiiR'as and visited
the great Calumet and Arizona and
Cooper Queen smelters and have in
vestigated several Imimrtant proper
ties in Hma nnd I'lnul counties. Jn
looking ever the copper rcsoucea of
these two counties, I cannot help but
feel that still greater results nr yet
to he accomplished. Wo visited the
Magnate mine In the Twin Huttes dis
trict near Tucson and from the re
ports of our engineers and from my
own observations I believe that tho
great I'tah mine will have a rival in
Hunting Casualties Larger
Than Ever, Eighty -Six Dead
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Nov. 30. Kighty-slx per
sons were killed and forty-one Injured
dining the hunting season in fifteen
states which closed today. The figures
were compiled by the Chicago Tribune,
which compares them with 59 dead and
6(1 injured for last vear and 111 dead
and 1(12 wounded for 1914.
Carelessness on the part of the hunt
OVAL, HUDSON TURN!
KILLING MECHANICIAN
DEENOREPEATSWII GRIND
SECOND TIME, TOO ICR SPEED
CAUSE OFTHEFATAL ACCIDENT
Whirled through the air from his
machine, as it crashed over the crest
of the north turn at the fair grounds,
V. M. Ijrerinan, mechanic of thelljd
son No. i in v esterday's one hundred
'mile race, was prolmbly instantly
j killed againsl the shattered port':
tence. When picked up by tile umpii.
'on that turn, tiie unfortunate ma"
1 lad already ceased to breathe, but h
was rushed to the hospital in tl e
mo:or ambulance, Surseons hud be n
i phoned for. and were in the operaC
room when Iirennan was brought
. but he was pronounced deal, due "
a fracture of the skull.
I It. G. Armstrong, driver of the car.
was throw ii free of the machine as
!lt rolled, and was not Injured.
' R. H. bclno, driving a sixteen valve
Stilt., repeated his fair week non-stop
14 seconds ahead of Al C.ladney's
Overland, which had been delayed on
a tiro change, but otherwise reieated
its Nuvember IS non-stop record.
Thornason would have beaten Mea-
i( ham with
ease except for n thrown
!ISth lap. He took . on ?
tire in h
Minnie to change a clincher lire, and
finished just a trifle hack of Mercer.
Marked by thrice the competition
of the fair week .entury. hut sadly
marred by the death of mechanician
W. M. Iirennan. of Oklahoma City,
yesterday's one hundred-miler drew a
.thls property in due time. Our en-
j gineers pronounce this property as
and uniform grade of richness. The
property has been reported ujHin by
It. Walter Harvey Weed and J. G.
Lindley and other prominent copper
engineers, and from exploration work
recently done, I do not believe that
in due time there will be any poi -phyry
copper in the West that will
exceed the Magnute in the ouality
and quantity of Its copper ore ton
nage. We h.ive practically completed
,ii ranpements to heavily finance this
proM'i-ly and we expect to have it
churn-drilled on an extensive scale,
as rapidly as possible. With such
mines at the Ray, Inspiration. NoV
Cornelia and New Cornelia Kxtension
dotting your hills, there cannot lie
other than a universal and lasting
prosperity throughout Arizona.
i "We visited the new camp of A 1m
ar.d I h:ive no words that can express
my belief that Ajo is going to be
soon recognized as one of the great
est copper producing camps in the
entire West. The New Cornelia mine
is a giant and the new metallurgical
the-Nevv Cornelia Copper conipeiv
lelng one of the greatest of the com
ing coppers, and- we made a substan
tial investment in the stock and in
fluenced a heavy Investment In it
among our clients. In our party are
severn I of our clients who have made
heavy investments In this stock some
time i:go when the stock was sellln?
at what Is now considered a low
(Continued on I'age Six)
, Republics A. P. Leased Wirel
'T.ONDON. IVc. 1. The funeral pro
cession of the late Kimperor Francis
Joseph, says a Vienna disimtch receiv
ed by way of Rome, left at 2 o'clock
yesterday afternoon, the Iiofburg cha
pel, where the body had lain In state
since Monday and traversed the
streets of Vienna by a circuitous route
tr St. Steven's Cathedral. Tne hearse
was drawn by eight horses and sur-
ers accounted for many o; the acci
dents. Many of the victims were mis
taken for deer. The following shows
the death by states:
California 2: Colorado 2: Illinois 13;
Indiana 3; Iowa 4; Maine 1: Michigan
-2: Minnesota 12: Missouri 2: New
Hampshire 1: New Jersey 4; New York
11: North Dakota 2; South Dakota 1;
Wisconsin ti. .
FUNERAL OF FRANCIS JOSEPH
ATTENDED BY ROYAL FAFiBILIES
V .
ON FAIR
f.Ur crowd in competition with the
football match at the Indian ' school.
The contest was featured by snappy
clean driving and beautiful work ill
the officials' stand, where perhaps the
most accurate time clietk was kept in
.he history of local automobile racing.
The race developed in the first mile
between the Hudson and the Stutz,
with tiie two Mercers and the Spa
running even and following the bail
ors closely. Armstrong was driving
in his seventh mile when he caught
the overland in the rough stuff on
the north turn. At his tremendous
pace, no human being could hav e held
the tar in the track, and as he saw
his control slipping he prepared to
leave the car. As the right whee.s
dropped over the bank, both men wesu
catapulted toward the
fence, with the
car rolling after them. Armstrong's
escaj.2 was little short of miraculous.
As the crowd saw the spurt of dust
.mil then glimpsed the destruction of
CO feet of feme, a gasp that was
fairly chaiged with emotion swept
through te stands. The ambulance
was driven to the turn, and from the
movement of the crowd about the
wrecked car, it could be seen fiat
someone was being placed Inside.
Soon the news was given to the peo
ple that Iirennan has been badly hurt.
I're.nk Klierle umpire on the turn,
was instantly on the job. His yellow
flag warned the drivers of the acci
dent, but as soon as he saw the
course clear, he gave them the red
llag, which is the A. A. A. signal
for a clear track. Like a cloud. th
news nf the accident spread among
the drivers, who were circling tiv
track at a rapid pace find passing
the scene of the accident every fe.v
's-cumls. Automatically, It eemed, Ire
break-neck pace was !iminished, and
remained comparatively slow for
twenty miles, before the lust for sj ccd
had conquered the depression, and
tho pilots began to step on the throt
tles. Iielno had set a pace for himself,
and he adhered to it with remarkable
fidelity. He varied ever so si ght y
from bis preconcerted speed find w
his second race four minutes faster
than the first, finishing the century
1 hour 3S minutes seconds.
I.amoerts Spa was second in 1
hour
4; minutes and ' second.
Meacham's Mener was third in 1
hour 46 minutes 12 seconds.
These three collected " the money
prizes. fete Thomason's Ford finished
in 1:49:2s and Gladney's overland in
1:49:4(1.
Seven of the nine cars were run
in? at the finish. Beside the Hudson,
only one other car stoiqied Rrewer s
Marmon. Five of them complete !
their hundred milec Gicn Thomas,
driving lloyt Medici's Pope. v:w
flagged off his 94th mile. Holing's
Mercer was running in his 96th mile
when the race was declared run by
Starter Pert Clingan. Billing had hid
several trips to the pits for tires, and
once had been called in for crowding
the Spa on the turns.
Among those to w hom Promoter Jo
Proehjiska la indebted for splend'd
work in the officials' stand are th -jndqes.
Dr. I Uoido. Mayor Peter
Corpteir. and A. G. Dulmage.
Chief Checker Frod Weber had
fine set of men working with him.
including A. J. Kisselhurg, H. A.
IVans or Tucson, W. 11. Crawford. J
C. Clark, J. Carman. C. B. Si'iert.
Harrv Johnson, Arthur Luhrs and ('.
W. Hartman.
Vtlll Tremaine and Bob Gordon as
sisted Starter Clingan.
Not Track's Fault.
George Purely Milliard, Arizona rep
resentative of the contest board of
the A. A. A. stated yesterday after
an Inspection of the wrecked Hudson,
the accident was not due to a dusty
track, or to any cause except the ex
cessive speed of the car.
(Continued on Fage Five)
rounded by nn imi criul body guard,
lackeyes and pages bearing torches
and crucifixes.
The roue was lined with troops, infantry-
and cavalry and tens of thous
ands of spectators crowded the pave
ments and the roofs and windows of
houses. During the progress of the
cortege Kmperor Charles drove direct
to the cnthedrnl, where he waited with
the empress, the kings of Rulgurin.
Ravnrla, Saxony and Wurttembtirg and
nearly a hunf.ced other members of
the Imperial family and other royal
houses.
Cardinal Piffl. archbishop of Vienn.i,
officiated, assisted by four cardinals,
ten bishops snd forty-eight priests.
At the "(inclusion of the funeral serv
ice. Emperor Charles walked behind
the coffin to the Capuchin church.
This la a small edifice and only a fo.v
of the privileged were able to enter,
the remainder standing outside dur
ing the final ceremony ffter bearin.r
the coffin to the crypt. The emperor,
the grand master of the court and two
ehamborlulrs followed Into the crypt
and formally transferred the body to
the care of the Capuchin monks.
As emperor Charles refiscended to
the church, the boom, of artillery in
salute sounded in the distance.
