j Todays Metal Prices :;" STtv fX L 4 WVV 4 P. M. CITY EDITION (j
I , ,RoTAT,o. II IT ! I ff 1 1 Vii I H IT 1 11 111 TEN PAGES I
5ev" M ' y J J tion; Not Much Change In Tempera-
1 ' " ' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. 4
I j 7orty sixth Year-No. 298. Price Five Cents. QGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 1, 1916. Entered aa Second-Claw Matter at th e Pottofflee, Ogden, Utah.
I Rumanians are Preparing to Make I
J Desperate Defense of Bucharest
jr; .
(Three Converging Forces
I Are Advancing Unchecked
1 on the Capital of Rumania
1 '
Teutonic Grip Remains Unshaken and Invaders
I v Are Now Almost Within Gunshot of
I Bucharest Russians Attacking Heavily.
I '
I I London, Dec. 1, 1 :39 p. m. The Exchange Telegraph
company says it has received information from Zurich by way
; of Rome that the Rumanian military authorities are making
preparations for a desperate defense of Bucharest. The civil
j ian population is said to have evacuated the city and the gov
i ernment officials have retired to a town on the Russian fron
, tier. This probably refers to the Rumanian town of Jassy, to
i-, whcih the government officials and diplomatic corps were said
several days ago to have gone.
IPetrograd, Dec. 1 , via London, 2:11 p. m. The Russian
offensive has been successful along the whole Rumanian
frontier south of Kirlibaba, says the official statement issued
; today by the Russian war department. In spite of violent
German counter attacks, the statement adds, the Russians oc
cupied the whole range of heights.
I The Teutonic grip on Rumania re
i mains unshaken and at last reports
was tightening with three converging
forces continuing unchecked their ad
S - vance toward Bucharest.
. ' Despite tenacious resistance by the
?' ! Rumanians, which appears to have In
, ' creased as Bucharest was neared by
, the armies of Field Marshal von Mack
. ensen and General von Falkenhayn,
the invaders are now almost within
j gun shot of the capital. They are
; nearest their objective on the south
west where Tzomana, 16 miles dis
,x a tant, has- been reached. From the
west they have driven to within 40
miles, reaching Glavatziotzu. On the
,g. northwest they have broken the Hu
j. manian lines, permitting of a new in
q flux of Austro-German troops by way
jl j ot Torzburg pass and Campulung.
ajj. Russians Attacking Heavily.
The Russians meanwhile have been
Tf: ' attacking heavily all along the fron
tier of Moldavia, the Rumanian prov
5 ' ince which projects northward be
' ; i tween Transylvania and Bessarabia,
in an evident attempt to create a di
version in Rumania's favor. Today
Petrograd reports a pronounced suc
cess in his offensive, declaring the
; whole range of heights along the fron
tier south of Kirlibaba has been tak
( en by the Russians.
Whether this success will have any
immediate effect on the operations of
j the Teutonic armies engaged In the
I main attack on the Rumanians has
; not yet been indicated. Apparently it
would require a considerable penetra
tion of Transylvanian territory by the
Russians to affect the southern cam
, Paign.
I Greece In Crisis.
Greece today is in the midst of what
seems likely to prove her greatest
j crisis. The entento ultimatum under
j Which possession of Greek arms and
munitions were demanded, has ex
: Plred and King Constantino is report
ed to have definitely refused compli
1 anco with the demands. On the other
4 hand, Admiral du Fournet, command
1 er of the allied naval forces in Greek
' haters, has indicated that he will
take radical measures to enforce the
demands, having troops in readiness
for debarkation at Piraeus, the port
, Athens.
Germo-Bulgarians Counter-attacking.
, In Macedonia the Germans and
Bulgarians are doing more than fight
defensive actions against the entente
' tempts to advance in the Monastir
JlBtrict On Wednesday they coun
i ler attacked violently in the Grunishto
" Jegion east of the Cerna-whero gains
- ero recently claimed for the Sor
i Mans. Paris admits the Serbians lost
certain trenches which they had pre
i; yioualy won but declares the main ef
. fort resulted in failure with heavy
tosses for tho Teutonic allies.
Russian Attacks Repulsed.
Berlin, Dec. 1, by wireless to Say
i !lU?' Several Russian atacks against
S jpsitlona on the Zlota-Lipa river In
4 yalicla held by Turkish troops were
pulsed yesterday, the war office an
1 jounces. Heavy losaea were inflicted
1 rnfe Russians.
fi The statement reads:
: Eastern front, army of Prince
I i opold: Turkish troops on the Zlota
" ypa repulsed several attacks by the
I paslans and pursued the enemy as
as retreating, innictlng heavy
es upon him. Numerous prisoners
ere brought in."
Waste of Blood and Ammunition,
lfiii lIn rec- 1- bv tireless to Say-
Jl The Russians and Rumanians
J:? violent attacks yesterday over a
W o nearly 200 miles, the-war of
"fen bounces. Their efforts are
jfiaracterized aB a waste of blood and
ammunition and it is said that they
gained no important advantages.
The advance on Bucharest contin
ues, notwithstanding the resistance of
the Rumanians. Field Marshal von
Mackensen's force which crossed the
Danube is approaching the Argeschu
river In the direction of Bucharest,
Yesterday the Rumanians suffered
heavy losses. The Teutonic forces
took 2500 prisoners and 21 cannon.
Massed Attacks Made.
An offensive movement in Dobrud
ja was begun yesterday by the Rus
sians and Rumanians who made mass
ed attacks on the Bulgarian left wing,
the war office announces.
The attack broke down under the
Bulgarian fire.
The statement follows:
"Front of Archduke Joseph: The
Russians and on the south wing the
Rumanians, continue in the Carpathi
ans their offensive attempts. Between
Jabtonica pass and the heights east
of the Basin of Kedzi Vasarhely, a
distance of 300 kilometers (186 miles)
on an air line, the enemy made vio
lent attacks. Yesterday, as befoso,
his waste of blood and ammunition
gained him virtually no advantage at
any place on the extended front. Our
troops made numerous counter at
tacks and captured from the enemy
ground which he had taken on the
preceding day. The Marburg Rifles
distinguished themselves especially
on the Smotrec, attacking and bring
ing in more than forty prisoners and
two machine guns from a hostile position.
Rumanians Trying to Escape.
"Front of Field Marshal von Mack
ensen: In western Rumania the Ru
manian troops cut off from their army
are trying to escape their inevitable
fate by following a variable course.
Yesterday the pursuing Germans and
Austro-Hungarians took more than
300 prisoners from them.
"Columns advancing by way of
Campulung and Piteshti along the riv
er valleys in Wallachia, took rich
booty in prisoners, cannon and carts
and especially in baggage. The ene
my offered resistance in numerous
river sectors to our forces that are ad
vancing from the Alt. Here also they
wero repulsed. An offensive move
ment by a Rumanian division to
which our cavalry gave war, was un
able to halt our progress.
"The Danube army has forced its
way by fighting across the Niaslov
lowlands and is approaching tho
course of the Argeschu in the direc
tion of Bucharest.
Enormous Casualties.
"The Rumanians besides sustaining
enormous casualties, yesterday lost
more than 2500 men in prisoners and
21 cannon, among which were three
mortars. The captures reported yes
terday are not included in these fig
ures. "In Dobrudja the enemy attacked
the Bulgarian left wing. The massed
attack broke down under the defen
sive fire. British armored cars were
unablo to avert a failure. Two of
them were destroyed in front of our
barricades."
Violent Counter Attack.
Paris, Dec. 1, 11:45 a. m. A violent
counter attack was made by German
and Bulgarian troops on Wednesday
on the Macdonian front near Grun
ishte, east of the Cerna river bond.
The war office announces that the
Serbians succeeded in retaining all
their positions except one trench.
The war office announcement fol-
l0There took place Wednesday
northwest of Grunishte two violent
counter attacks on tho part of the
Germano-Bulgnrian forces against the
positions conquered previously by the
Serbian army with these attacks re
sulted in failure with heavy losses for
the enemy, but at certain points the
enemy was successful in regaining his
footing in certain trenches which he
had lost. .
"Yesterday bad weather prevented
any Important operations. Prelip has
been bombed by our aviators."
Rumanians Meet Bloody Defeat.
Sofia, Nov. 30, via London, Dec. 1,
9:50 a, m. The Bulgarians have san
guinarily defeated the Rumanians in
hand to hand fighting and captured
two 21 centimeter guns, the war of
fice announced today.
Tho statement follows:
"Macedonian front: The situation
is quiet around Grunishte. We re
pulsed an enemy attack by counter at
tacks. At other points there was only
weak artillery fire."
"Rumanian front: In Wallachia our
advance continued on the road from
Glurgevo to Bucharest. Our troops in
bayonet fighting inflicted a bloody de
feat on tlie enemy who suffered heavy
losses. We captured two 21 centi
meter guns. On the Danube between
Turtukai and Tchernavoda there was
infantry firing with artillery action
near Turtukai. In the Dobrudja there
was weak artillery fire. and engage
ments between advance posts."
London, Dec. 1, 11:25 a, m. "Yes
terday evening the enemy attempted
to raid our trenches south of Neuvo
Chapelle, but was driven off, says to
; day's official report from the Franco
Belgian front. "South of Armentieres
the enemy's line was entered by us In
several places during the night.
"Beyond-the usual artillery activity
there is nothing to report."
Violent Artillery Engagements
Raging Along Entire Fron
tier of Rumania.
Bucharest, Dec. 1, via London, 4:25
p. m. Heavy fighting is in progress
all along the frontier of northern Ru-1
mania and in western Rumania, but no
apparent changes are reported by the
war office today. In Dobrudja a vio
lent attack has been begun over the
entire front. Following is the an
nouncement: "Northern and northwestern fronts:
From the western frontier of Moldavia
to the Bezeu valley, inclusive, there
nave been lively engagements all ;
I along the whole front. At Table Butzi '
j and Bratocea and in the Prahovo val-,
ley artillery bombardments and in- i
( fantry actions occurred.
j "Western front: In tho Golesti sec
' tor, six kilometers south of Piteshti
j very violent infantry engagements
have taken place and also In Glacaclon
, valley and on the Niavov to Koman.
, Our troops captured several hundred j
i prisoners, ten machine guns and some
j other war material. j
"Southern front: In Dobrudja we
have made a violent attack along tho
whole front."
oo
HEAVY FI11I1
ON ITALIAN LINE
Artillery Increasing in Inten
sity on Whole Front Particu
larly in Area East of
Gorizia.
Rome, via London, Dec. 1, 4:30 p.m.
Heavy artillery fighting is in prog
ress along the Austro-Italian front,
the war office announces. Following
is the statement:
"On the whole front the activity of
the artillery on both sides increased,
particularly in the Adige and Astico
valleys, in tho area east of Gorizia and
on the Carso.
"Hostile aircraft raided several
points along tho front. They wero
driven off by anti-aircraft guns and
airplanes. Enemy airplanes dropped
bombs on Grigno, in the Sugana val
ley. No damage was caused.
"One of our air squadrons dropped
numerous bombs on tho station at Vo
lano, north of Rovoreto, inflicting
damage and causing fires. Another
squadron dropped bombs on the sta
. tion at Rifemberga in the Branizza
: valley. Some trains which were sta
tionary wero hit. All our airplanes
returned,"
BRITISH ADVANCE
IN EASTffiCA
Campaign Against Germans
Conspicuous Success En
emy Forces Divided.
ATTACKS REPULSED
Main Body Driven Off, Re
maining Troops Isolated
and Forced to Surrender.
London, Dec. 1, 12:10 p. m. Con
spicuous success has been gained by
the British In their campaign against
the Germans in German East Africa,
the war office announced today.
"On October 19 a strong German
forco commanded by Major General
Wahle dislodged from Tabora (In the
central part of tho colony) came in
contact with the British south of Ir
inga," the statement says. "Simul
taneously the enemy in the Mahenge
area took the offensive against the
British on the Ruhudje river with the
evident intention of assisting the
western German force to penetrate
the British cordon and form a junc
tion with the main German force. The
attempt to break through was repul
sed near Aeuiringa and tho British
gained a conspicuous success on the
Ruhudje river, driving the enemy over
the river with the loss of 200 killed,
S2 prisoners and booty.
Main Body Divided.
"The main body of the western
German force divided into two parts.
One invested the British force at Lu
pemba and was driven off. The re
maining force was isolated on the
llembule mission station and forced to
-surrender about 500 strong on Novem
ber 26. A howitzer, ammunition and
three machine guns wero included in
the booty. The remnants of Major
General Wahle's force, having lost the
bulk of their artillery and machine
guns and probably suffering over 50
per cent of clisualties, are making
eastwards for Mahenge."
rn
GILS AND WOMEN
TORN FROM HOMES
Belgian Males From 15 to 50
and Females, Possessing
Sewing Machines
Deported.
London, Dec. 1, 12:30 p. m. It Is
reported from Fauquemont, says a
Reuter dispatch from Amsterdam to
day, that the male inhabitants of Has
sellet and Lanaye, Belgium, between
the ages of 15 and 50, and also girls
and women possessing sewing ma-i
chines, are to be deported to Germany. I
nn
CLINIC FINOS
OISEASE GERM
Causative Agent of Infantile
Paralysis Isolated at Roches
ter, Minnesota Experi
ments Being Made.
St. Paul, Minn., Dec. 1. A germ
believed to be the causative agent of
infantile paralysis has ben isolated at
the Mayo clinic in Rochester, Minne
sota, by Dr. E. C Rosenow and his
asociates. Dr. E. B. Towne of Boston
and Dr. G. W. Wheeler of New York,
according to an announcement made
in the St. Paul Dispatch today. It is
no secret, adds tho Dispatch, that,
since the isolation of the germ, many
experiments looking to the perfection
of a vaccine or serum for its preven
tion have been made at Rochester.
The physicians would not state posi
tively that the micro-organism discov
ered was that of infantile paralysis,
but said that their many experiments
pointed that way,
What are described as a "peculiar
polymorphous streptococcus," have
been isolated from the throat and
tonsils of acute cases of .infantllo par
alysis, it was declared.
Germs Assume Different Sizes.
In different culture media, tho
germs assumed different sizes. In
some cases they were so small aB to
be invisible under the microscope and
easily filtered through denso porce
lain. "Using the organism In its large
form, paralysis has been consistently
produced in animals known to bo in
susceptible to Innoculatlon," Bays a
statement from the physicians,
i "Tho exact relation of our results
"WH AT ARE YOU GOING TO DO ABOUTIT?"
SNEERS EGG KING AS PRICE SKYROCKETS
James E. Wetz.
James E. Wetz of Chicago, the world's greatest holder of eggs and
proud of it, has more than 20,000 cases of eggs which he is holding for a
higher price. "What are you going to do about it?" he asks, when people
complain that he is making a fortune out of the sufferings of the poor.
to the facts already established as to.
the" etiology 'of poliomyelitis cannot
yet be definitely stated. It appears
to us that the small, filtered organ
ism, which has been generally ac
cepted as tho cause of poliomyetitis
may be the form which this strep
tococcus tends to take under anaerob
ic conditions in the central nervous
system and in suitable culture me
diums, while the larger and more
typically streptococcus forms, which
investigators have considered contam
inations, may be the identical organ,
ism grown larger under suitable con-ditions."
tobSced
Clothing Workers to Be Paid
for .48 Hours Weekly
Instead of 54.
Chicago, Dec. 1. Chicago clothing
workers, heretofore paid on a 54-hour
weekly wage scale, will be paid the
same wages for 48 hours' work begin
ning today, Jacob Abt, president of
the Chicago Whblesale Clothiers' as
sociation, announced. Time and a half
will be paid for overtime instead of
straight wages. Mr. Abt asserted that
today's reduction in working time
means more than $1,000,000 additional
3'early will be paid out to employees
of members of the organization.
Beginning today also $4.50 will be
the average daily wage in the Chicago
plants of Armour, Swift and Morris
packing companies.
WAGE INCREASE FOR
TWO THOUSAND MEN
Toledo, Ohjo, Dec 1. Two thousand
men are affected by wage increases
effective today. Three hundred em
ployes in the car shops of tho Wabash
railroad started this morning on a 10
per cent increase which includes all
classes of employes.
Seventeen hundred men employes of
the Edward Ford Plato Glass company
began today under an increase of 8 per
cent, making a total increase of 26 per
cent for tho year.
oo
PROBING SUPPLY OF
GOURA FEATHERS
Chicago, Dec. 1. Agents of the
Um'ted States treasury department
have began an Investigation into tho
source of supply of Chicago dealers
in cigarettes and guora feathers, it
was learned today. It is charged that
although the importation of these dec
orations for woman's headgear has
seen prohibited for some time, tho sup
ply apparently has not diminished.
Approximately $25,000 worth of
these feathers have been brought into
Chicago in the last few months, it is
said, most of them from Cuba by
way of Tamim. Fla.
wcSart
Compaign on in New York
Against High Cost of
Living.
REMEDIAL MEASURES
Thousands of Turkeys Left on
Hands of. Dealers Because
of Boycotts.
New York, Dec. 1. The campaign
against tho high cost of living entered
another stage today when the presi
dents of nearly a score of retail gro
cery associations and representatives
of several delicatessen associations
met with Joseph Hartigan, commis
sioner of weights and measures and
Secretary of Mayor Mitchel's food
committee to consider remedial meas
ures. A series of boycotts on poultry, but
ter and other foodstuffs similar to
that now in force on eggs, is pr&posed,
the butter boycott to begin December
12, when the egg ban will have run
two weeks. Whether the latter will
continue or not after that depends, it
was said, upon the price at which
eggs are selling then. The wholesale
price of eggs has dropped from three
to four cents a dozen on all grades
since the inception of the boycott.
Commissioner Hartigan declared
that a national cold storage law was
needed to protect consumers against
the marketing of perishable food.
Reports from various sources today
are to the effect that thousands of
turkeys were left on the hands of the
dealers Thanksgiving day as the re
sult of the refusal of housewives to
pay high prices. The surplus stock
will be held in cold storage and It is
predicted that in consequence the
price of Christmas turkeys will be
greatly reduced.
Boycott Is Recommended.
St. Louis, Dec. 1. A state-wide boy
cott on butter, eggs, potatoes and
fowls of all kinds has been recom
mended by members of the board of
directors of the St. Louis branch of
the German-American alliance, accord
ing to George Withun, corresponding
secretary of the local organization and
state secretary of the Missouri Alli
ance. Definite action on the boycott Is to
bo taken next Fridya night, at a meet
ing of thot 300 delegates to the St.
Louis organization, representing the
20,000 members in St. Louis, Withun
said.
Eighty thousand members through
out Missouri are expected to endorse
the boycott, according to F. W. Keck,
president of tho St. Louis branch.
JOHN HAYS HAMMOND ILL.
Baltimore, Md., Dec. 1. John Hays
Hammond, the mining englneor, who
has been 111 of stomach trouble in a
hotel here, was reported to be much
better this morning.
' - ::: I
German Submarines to
, EMer Pacific and ij. I
Attack Shipping. j '
London, Dec. 1, 4:03 p. m. "We are -
In a position of unparalleled gravity," j re
said Admiral Baron Beresford, In an - j
address today at a meeting to support j
a stronger naval policy. "The crisis ! &
of the war is now. ' j
"Since enemy submarines have
transferred their activities from the j !l
headlands and shallow waters to the : . i
blue sea, the menace requires new j , ty
strategy and new tactics to deal with ', I
it, but so far no definite and system- j j
atlc methods have been taken for sup- , ;
pressing the menace.
"The Germans are now going to !
. send submarines to tho Pacific and to 1 !
wherever British trade Toutes are." ' :
, Baron Beresford advocated ccntln- Iji
, ual aerial attacks on the German base j' !1
at Zeebrugge and the arming of mer- '
chantmen, and continued: ' I
j "It is a most unsatisfactory state of ,' K
affairs. The United States has thou- ; i
j sands of tons of food which is waiting j
I to come to England, but which has
i been diverted by the fear of German j j
I submarines." i j 4
j The meeting adopted a resolution , 'if
calling for a more effective blockade , J 9
and for more efficient measures to f , i
deal with the submarine question. ' I
nn I I il
CAUSE OF LACK
OF ARMYMORALE 1
Shortage of Food and Ammu- t J
nition Brought Defeat of
General Trevino. ' :
j
Washington, Dec. 1. Shortage of I f 'A
food and ammunition rather than lack
of morale among the Carranza troops ' i i-
at Chihuahua City is held by Ambas- ' j J
sador-Designate Arredondo to be the lr i 'j
real cause of the defeat of General j ;J
Trevino and the Carranza forqes by j '1
Villa bandits. ' j i
Mr. Arredondo believes the Carran- I !
za troops were forced to evacuate but j
has no official word of the fight show- , j
ing definitely that General Trevino i , ;
had abandoned his position. ) '(
oo ' :.
PRIMARY LAW ! j
FOR PRESIDENT ; j
Senator Poindexter to Promote t
Preference Measure at !
Coming Session.
f t
I J
Spokane, Washington, Dec. 1. i I
United States Senator Miles Polndex- j
ter announced before leaving for ti J
Washington today that among the
measures he would promote at tho !i
coming session of congress was a r ijj
presidential preference primary law 1
"which will make possible the choice t
of the party membership for prcsi- jjf m
dential nominees and prevent the por- :
version ot public opinion in that re- jjj
spect, which has been tho case the last
eight years." ' jj m
Other bills Senator Poindexter said , J
he Intended pressing were a direct ?
"long and short haul," clause to tho au
interstate commerce act; an amend- j
ment to tho tariff commission act i u
stating definitely the measure of pro- j!
tection desired, which shall become , (
the rate of duty when ascertained ?. I
by the commission, and a bill en-
franchising the residents of tho distrct , j
of Columbia and giving the district (;
a delegate in congress. h
I LI
