ohc
ante
ALL HOME PRINT-ALL HOME NEWS
VOLUME 62 Number 44
PAW PAW, MICHIGAN, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1916
Whole Number 4248
1
UNDER QUARANTINE
ALL DOGS ARE NOW ""EPJSL
SINlitrtt MARt nil
The Hampton Court Singers opened
the Coterie Lecture season in J 'aw
I'aw Last Monday evening, if all the
attractions arc as good as the Ant,
the course will be a great success.
The company is unique in many re
spects. They break away from the
stereotyped style of most contort com
panies, and with their breezy, new
and novel mannerisms, their jolly and
catchy style win favor from the vn y
beginning. The personnel of the com
pany is as follows:
Miss Georgia Sherman, Saprano;
Miss Ethel Wakefield, Contralto; Mr.
! Edgar Brown, Tenor; Mr. Floyd Stev
ens, Baritone and manager: and Miss
lone Hart, Header and Accompanist.
-i inef ' There was no attempt to individual
Sheriff Deattie received notice last
excellence, ui mere wmm ceruuni
Throughout the Townships
of Lawrence, Paw Paw,
Columbia, Arlington.
IN EFFECT TILL JANUARY 24
Sheriff Posts Notices Estab
lisaing the Quarantine.
Heavy Penalties.
Saturday, and instructions from the
State Live Stock Sanitary commission
to place all the dogs in quarantine
for a period of sixty days in the town
ships of Lawrence, Paw Paw, Colum
bia and Arlington. Notices of the
quarantine were posted last Monday,
and the same will be in effect until
January 24th, 1917, Following is the
great team work, and the announce
ments of Miss Hart, were certainly
masterpieces of originality. The first
half of the program was made up of
quartet work and readings. The sel
ections were taken from the authors
of the olden days, and were a plea ling
diversion from the modern classics.
The latter part of the evening wai
taken up with a little Irish Drama,
notice posted by the sheriff, which
i-U r.. ,,nA f 111 1 ll't 'I i I S of
.-give w. cu - . Rnd it wafl here that the singers show
the quarantine, uon "
the townships affected, should read
the same carefully. The notice ii
signed by the three members of the 1
.aforesaid commission:
Whereas, Act 182, Session Laws of
1885, makes it the duty of the State
Live Stock Sanitary commission to
protect the domestic animals of the
State from all contagious and infect
ious diseases of a malignant charactor
and,
Whereas, The fact has been estab
lished that a dog supposed to be affect
ed with the contagious disease known
as Rabies, or Hydrophobia, has been
at large in the townships of Lawrence
and Columbia in the County of Van
Buren, and is known to have bitten
several other dogs, and come in con
tact with many perhaps as yet un
known; now,
Therefore, it is ordered, that all
dogs owned or kept in the township-
of Lawrence, Taw
cd their skill and ability. Every one
was an artist in their part. It was a
most pleasing entertainment from
tart to finish, and should the Hamp
ton Singers come this way again they
will be greeted with a large and ap
preciative audience.
GLEANERS ORGAN
IZE FEDERATION
County Association perfected
at South Haven Rally
Last Week.
A County Federation of Cleaners
was formed at the County Rally held
in South Haven last week. The new-
Paw, Columbia organization starts out with a mem-
and Arlington and in the city of Paw j bership of four hundred and fifty and
Taw and in the villages of Lawrence j will probably soon include nearly all
and Breedsville, in the county of Van of the two thousand members of that
Buren, State of Michigan, shall be order in Van Ruren county. This
kept securely chained for a period of j county federation will be the body
ixtv davs from date, and no dogs can 1 through which the local members of
be used for hunting in said quarantine each arbor will act in expressing their
townships until January 26th, 1!17. views on legislation and other public
(5641) Sec. 16, of the Michigan questions in which the associations
Live Stock Laws provides the penalty are Interested. The County Federa
for violating the above quarantine, tiun will in turn be fused into a state
and reads as follows: organization which is to meet in
(Mill) Sec. 15, Any person who ( irand Rapids on December G and 7th.
-hall wilfully violate, disregard or Co-operative marketing is the prob
evade, or attempt to violate, disregard lorn now before the organizations,
or evade any of the provisions of this The next county meeting will be held
act, or who shall wilfully violate, dis- in Hartford on the second Tuesday in
regard any of the rules, regulations, January.
orders or directions of the Live 1 The officers chosen for the county
Stock Sanitary commission establish- ; federation are as follows:
ing or governing quarantine, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
in any sum not less than ten dollars
and more than one hundred dollars,
or to be imprisoned in the county jail
not less than ten nor more than ninety
Chief Gleaner Carl Winslow
Mattawan
Vice Chief Gleaner Merl Hunt,
Hartford
Lecturer Mrs. Fred Simpson,
Hartford
Secretary and Treasurer Silas
days, or both such fine and imprison Piper, South Haven, Route 5.
ment in the discretion of the court. Chaplain Rev. T. Porter Bennett,
The Michigan State laws as amend- Hartford
ed in 1015 further provide that said j Conductor John Connor, Covert
commission shall also have power to Conductress Mrs. Agnes Goodrode
declare and enforce a quarantine on Bangor
dogs in any district of this state in ! Inner Guard Mrs. Anna Barrett,
which there is an outbreak of rabies, Watervliet
hog cholera, hoof and mouth disease, 1 Outer Guard Charles Squires
or any other contagious or infectious Lacota.
liseasi among live stock; and may
order that all dogs in said district
shall be securely chained or otherwise
confined. Any dog found at large in
contravention of the terms of such
quarantine or order may be killed. It
shall be the dutv of the sheriff of each
SON OF LOCAL MAN
WINS RECOGNITION
By hitting the bulls-eye with un-
county in the district affected and of erring skill from the standing, kneel-
his deputies, constables and other1 ing, or sitting position, Bert E. Shull
municipal police officers to see to it! of Paw Paw has become a marksman j
that such quarantine and orders are j in the United States Marine Corps,
enforced. Any officer killing a dog . according to an official report from j
persuant to the provisions of this act the State Rifle Range at Jacksonville,
-hall not be subiect to anv liabilitv Horida.
ORIGIN OF THANKSGIVING
In colonial days it was customary to appoint day.
of lasting and feasting, of prayer or thanksgiving,
when public events seemed to warrant this recognit
ion. In ITS'.) Washington ordered a day of thanksgiv
ing for the adoption of the federal constitution. Sub
sequently various days in November were recommend
cd by Presidents and Governors until, in 1863, the reg
ular observance of a National Thanksgiving day was
Instituted through a proclamation Of President Lin
coln. The President's proclamation does not make it a
national holiday. It applies legally only to the Dis
trict of Columbia and the territories. It is the Gover
nors' proclamation that affect the states. The day is
observed in all states, but in some it is not a statutory
holiday. Thursday was originally selected by the
puritans probably because being near the middle of
the week, it gave opportunity for the scattered mem
bers of the family to come together and to return with
out desecrating the Sabbath by travel. November
was selected as the month w hen the fall harvests were
all gathered. Other countries have Thanksgiving
days for special occasions, such as success in battle
or the deliverance of the people from a national
calamity, but the fixed annual Thanksgiving day is a
custom belonging to America alone.
MICHIGAN NEEDS THEM
(EDITORIAL)
One of the important, duties that the next State
Republican convention will have to perform will be
the nomination of two members of the State Board of
Agriculture. The Fourth Congressional district will
be especially interested in this convention, as one mem
ber of the board, Hon. Jason W oodman of Paw Paw,
who has served as member of this board one term,
will be presented for renomination to succeed himself.
The other member whose term will also expire at
that time is J. V. Beaumont of Detroit, who will also
be presented for the customary second term.
These gentlemen will be presented to the conven
tion to succeed themselves first, because it is custom
ary in this state to give all deserving public officials
at least two terms. Second, on account of their
availability and service on one of the most important
state boards.
Mr. Beaumont is a graduate of the M. A. C. of the
class of LS82. He comes from a section of the state
where a large percentage of the engineering graduates
of the institution are located. He has given much of
his time to the interests of the Agricultural college.
He is also an excellent attorney and a valuable man
on the board. Mr. Woodman is also a graduate of
the M. A. C. and went out with the class of 1881.
He is the only member on the board who is a graduate
from the college and a practical farmer. He has had
much to do with the Extension work carried on in
the state by the United States government. His fam
iliarity with it, his experience in actual agricultural
work, his general ability and breadth of knowledge
along all lines, makes his membership to the State
Board of Agriculture particularly desired and valuable.
Both Mr. Woodman and Mr. Beaumont have taken
a great interest in the affairs of this great institution
during the six years they have been on the board.
They come from a section of the state where the meet
ings of the board are accessible, and every meeting at
the college finds them both there taking an active
part in its affairs. It is doubtful if two more valu
able men to the institution and to the state could have
been selected to serve on th is board. The state can
not well afford at this time to dispense with their ser
vices. Both should mtj undoubtedly will be accorded
the usual courtesy of a second term in the state con
vention without opposition. Not as a matter of court
esy alone, nor because of the usual custom, but because
they are the right men for the place and these are the
days when efficiency in places of honor and public trust
are demanded and expected more than ever before.
FOOD PRICES
HIGH COST OF FOOD
DON'T AFFECT WEST
The high cost of living evidently
has not hit the city of Los AnireU ,
California yet. The following is 1
clipped from a letter from John ii Interesting Comparison of
Sirrine to one of his Paw Paw rela
FOR THANKSGIVING
tivos.
"At the restaurants here, price
have not been raised, although they
had formerly been feeding people
cheaper than in any city in the United
States. My breakfast this morning,
a bowl of oat meal mush and milk,
two fried eggs, potatoes,, two biscuits,
bread and butter, a cup of good coffee
and a plate of hot slap jacks with but
ter and syrup, all for fifteen cents. I
could have had a plain steak, pork
rhons. fried limn or hneon. liver find
bacon or mutton in place of eggs, and
tea, chocolate, or milk in place of
coffee. Dinner and supper, soup in
place of oat meal, roast meats, stews
etc. in place of the morning fries, and
a choice of several kinds of pie or pud
dings in place of hot cakes. Large
dining room with an average of fifty
people for two or three hours at all
meal times. Linen table cloths and
napkins and everything clean and
nice with quick service. Can you beat
it anywhere these times? We eat
about 8:30 A. M. and 4:30 P. If. cost
ing us thirty cents per day, and
haven't lost any. flesh yet, according to
the citv scales."
Food Prices for the
Three Past Years.
NO MORE BASKETS FOR POOR
E
REAL WHITE HOPE
Paw Paw Boy Coming fast
in the Pugilistic Arena
in the East.
Class That Does the Giving
have All They can Do to
Provide Their Own.
The custom which has long been in
vogue in the cities and even the vill
ages of making up baskets for the
poor at Thanksgiving and Christmas
time, will probably be abandoned this
year of our Lord 1916. If those char
itable acts, were confined to the rich,
the custom could go on and on indef
initely regardless of the price of com
modities to fill the baskets, and the
hearts of the abject poor and their
little ones would continue to be glau
doned at Thanksgiving and other
Holiday times as of yore. But the
fact of the matter is this giving busi
ness in a large measure is confined to
the so-called middle class. Occasion
ally a man of wealth will open his
heart to the pleadings of the poor, but
they are mighty few and far between.
It is the near poor and ladies of the
various church societies who as a ru'e
attend to the acts of charity.
It was quite a common thing in
yean gone by to provide turkey for
the poor at Thanksgiving time, but
this year that is out of the question,
for there are but few of those who
usually do the giving that can afford
a turkey for their own table. The
fact of the matter is that it keeps
nearly everybody even in moderate
circumstances pretty busy to provide
the necessities of life these days, to
say nothing of turkey and other luxur-
The following list of prices for
Homer Smith, the Michigan heavy
weight, will be home for a visit with
the folks here about the Holiday sea- jes.
son. Refore that lime he will ha the past three veal's make interesting
two fights that will test his ability, comparisons and show how utterly
Tuesday night he will go against Impossible it will be to furnish many
Sandy Ferguson, at Norristown, Pa., baskets at Thanksgiving this year to
in a ten round bout. Saturday even- the needy.
ing December 2nd, his opposition will Th,. figures were obtained from '.he
be Tom Cowler, Jim Corbett's "white local stores and are a fair average
hope." This bout is a bit in doubt, of the prevailing prices for the years
hut will likely take place at the Cler- mentioned.
moat Athletic club, Brooklyn. It will Commodities 1!1 1 1915 191J
be ten rounds. Turkeys, lb. . 11 11 30
Billy Randall, manager of Homer, Duck.-, lb. 17 IT 20
is home in Kalamazoo for a visit and Chickens, lb. 11 L5 18
very enthusiastic over the showing Land), lb, 20 11 25
his man is making in the (Quaker City. Beefsteak, lb. IS 20 25
"Homer is coming" he remarked. Pork steak, lb. IS 20 25
"He is very popular with the Fhilly Sugar, lb. 8 ( S1
boxing fans and is looked on as a 1 Spg. PIOUT, s k . L.0Q !" 1.50
man who will have to be considered y. H. Flour sk 70 80 1.35
f,or the heavyweight championship. Laid. lb. 17 14 22
He is improving at every stage of the Potatoes, BtL 45 60 1.80
game." Buckwheat, sk. 30 86 70
Smith is only twenty-two years of Cranberries, q 10 10 12
age, six feet two and a half inches tall Bacon, lb. 20 11 30
and weighs one hundred ninety pound-; Smoked ham lb. 22 25 32
in condition. Salt pork. lb. 12 M 17
Since February last Homer has had Beans, lb. .'. 1 j 6H 12
ten bouts in the East. Several of his Butter, lb. 22 25 M
opponents have gone out by the Canned Corn 10 12'- 15
Knockout route, some have been no Canned IVas 8 10 LI
decisions, but he has been given the Sauer Kraut, 8 10 1"-
newspaper decisions of every fight he Cheese, lb. 20 22 32
has had. Oysters, qt. ... 30 40 60
therefor.
We, the undersigned t ombers of
the Michigan State Live Stock Sani
tary commission, hereby call upon the
Sheriff and Deputy Sheriff of Van
Buren county, and all constables to
enforce this quarantine in said town
ships in Van Buren county.
-
ADVERTISED LETTERS
Jack Buckley
Mrs. Steinmon
Ben Sutherby
Postmaster
Bert, who is a son of Mr. Fred r.
Shull of I'aw Paw, enlisted in the
I nited States Marine Corps at its J
Bulfalo, N. Y., recruiting station on
July 20th, 1016, and he is now speed
ing southward on the U. S. cruiser
Hancock to join the newly established
American protectorate in the little
Republic of Santo Domingo.
The Paw Paw young man has made
remarkable progress while serving
with the soldiers of the sea. His
splendid score at "Slow and rapid"
fire, gained for him the fodge of mark
rmn'i'!! and an incrwM 4 of pay.
IMPORTANT GRANGE MEETING.
The regular meeting of the Q range
will be held at Memorial hall on Sat
urday evening of this week. A BTO
gram has been prepared which will
include a report from Mrs. Olivia J.
C. Woodman of the recent National
Grange Convention in Washington I).
C. Mrs. Woodman had the honor of
attending this great conference and
delivering the response to the address
of welcome of President Wilson.
Every mc?ibcr f 0m Orasgo should
btj present si Him masting.
PETTY THIEVES ARE
LOOSE IN PAW PAW
There has been considerable petty
thieving reported in Paw I'aw for
some time past. It is quite likely
that something will drop in the near
future. Clothing was taken from
clothes lines, and one evening not long
ago some one entered the Hill resi
dence on Fast Main street, during the
absence of the family and carried
away nearly all of Mrs. Hill's cloth
ing. Last week some one took two
The annual thanksgiving dinner of j auto chains from the Charles Lake
the Mosier, Simkins and Spicer famil-1 garage. Mrs. Lake heard some aoiSS
ies will take place this year at the W. j in the night and thought it was in the
C. Mosier home. These reunions 1 house. Charley got up, turned up the
1NNUAL FAMILY AFFAIR
WUIU started some years ago. No
vember 29th, is the wedding anniver
lights and searched from cellar to
garret, and concluded it was a false
BACK ON THE JOB
Harry Busley has returned from
Jackson, and will be found again at
the New Hub Restaurant and Lunch
j room on West Main street. He
. bought out True Glidden and is now
the sole proprietor. Try Harry for
a stack of "Browns." maple syrup
and hot coffee.
LAKE AND SON HAVE MOVED
Lake and Son are moving this week
to the Dickerhoof building on West
Main street. They have an announce
ment in this issue that will be of in
terest to the public. Call and see how
nicely they are located in the new
tore.
CARD OF THANK
sarv of Mr. and Mrs. Snieer. and is alarm. O. F. Smith, missed some We desire to thank the m.anv
also the birt; 'lay of Duane, Ruth and tools from his shop the first of UlS'menni r.no ne . r I 'ir .
Tommy Mosier. So it is particularly
fitting that Thanksgiving day rhouUl
he JoinVy celebrated by Lhcsc families,
ji i-- . ;: n t b able I bf home t ill
rear, bVt Oaii and family of Do
aragiac are her for hi" vent.
week, and several pmnM ltei
ras!i V :: ate.
i t'f stores.
tew of the case.s reported,
thieves a"- here alright, but v. i
Off or later come to grief.
;!..... N of kindness dUT-
1 1 1 1 death of our !-
These are enly a loved father.
Petty C. F. Roundy and family
soon Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Wild
and F. E. Roundy.
