Tbs Audra-AJdsn Players, That Drew Record Crowds for Fourteen Weeks at the El Paso, Texas, Grand, Will Be at the Auditorium Saturday and Sunday
T
BEMING GRAPHIC
Dening Air
100 per et. Pure
Breathing Text
Deniinc Water
9.99 Pun .
(1 vernm't Test
A LI VE PAPER IN A LIVE TOWN
' VOLUME XV, NUMBER XIV.
DEMJNQ, NEW MEXICO.FKIDAY, DECEMBER 1. 191(1.
FIVE CENTS TlfE COPT
c:g ogms
hr OA
Generous Denting Residents Sent Lots
of Good Things to the Boys In
Camp Furlong Near Columbus
TWO MAMMOTH AUTO LOADS
County Clerk Hughes, County Assess
or Stump and C. W. Cook Furn
ished One of the Auto Loads
The liny of Company "I" fully ap
preciate I lint I lit- people "I' Dealing
tliink very kindly nl" them and win 11
occasion presents itself llii'.v give ev
idence nf Hint feeling l' regard. This
it plainly manifested in I lie splendid
Thanksgiving I'cnsl id dnwn In llii"
Imys in Mes Sergcmil Dennis Sign
er's i-nr. It Innd.'d llio machine to
the limit and several ih-Ihk'k I1111I to
In- lied mi. After till' things luiil nil
iMfii gal lin ed lngi'ibcr nl I In- Chamb
er nf Commerce 1 hi'oiiv'li Ihc very able
Management of Mr. R. C. Hoffman
ninl Mrs. Jumes R. Wuddill tin- serv
ices nf Jack (Inmlwyn of I In- (irupliu.
force woro brought into requisition,
n JiK'k is mi exert in Ihc packing
game. Tim list nf donors will In- put
nt headquarters in order Unit (lie
boys limy appreciate those who (link
pains In nmember I hem mi kindly.
Those who runt rilnil rcl In I lie gifts
for ('nniMiiiy "I" are: Mrs. A. V.
Pollard, cuke and doughnuts: Mrs.
John Corbell. doughnuts; Ml-. Wall
it Russell, oranges; Mrs. Thomas
"Marshall, doughnuts, iimly, fruit ;
Mr. M. A. Xnrilliiuis, cnnkics: Mrs.
Thomas. Taylor, cake; Mrs. James li.
W.Mldill okifs; Mrs. J. (1. .Mm.,
like jiiiil cookies; Mrs. Minimi. cuke;
Mr. It. C. Ilnffiiiiin. cookies; Mrs.
Curl IVugh, rnisin pies: Mrs. M. T.
Kennedy, fruit ninl nuts; Mrs. Frank
Thurmond, canned fruit ; .Mrs. J. A.
Mnhnney, canned fruit; Mrs. J.
Steitsnn, cake; Mr. S. S. Mo Adams,
J package; Hosscr I riifj Co., Ilersh
ey's chocolate: Irvine i Rnilhcl. ci
gar: Lcffler & Field, cigarettes;
fliiiinlirr nf Commerce, cranberries;
I'ii nl Xeseh, cakes mid pies; Clink
(tracery Cn.. Imx of apples, Demingj
MtTi'iiuiilt', Imx nf apples; Henry'
Meyer, box nf apples; S. A. Cnx,;
lint f apples; F. C. I'nrrish, fruit ; 1. .
V. McKcyes, gum.
There were several packages withj
no names on Ihoiu so it in not known
who contributed them. Also 11 ,
lifr nf packages for individuals. I
County Clerk C. If. Hindu's, t ku-
crous old scout) took down a whole
unto load nf Thanksgiving goodies!
tonlributod by himself, County As-
vssor Stump ind C. . Cook. !
. i
Kerr Can't Get Fords Fast Enough .
The fast earlond went as follows::
Tourimr cars, Dr. Milford, lco Kim-1
ini'l, Turk (iurage. I. G. IViir.otli. and
K. II. t.'unxnlu; Unadsler, (lust
Wi'inliiH'ner.
Old Time Revival
An old time rcviil is licing enn-j
ducted al the Xnxnrclic church by ib,
Rev. C. B. Jernigan, Rev. It. M.
Cniilsou mid Rev. I P. Frelwvll and!
wife, who have chatge of the singing.
The services begin promptly at 'J:'"!:
and T:f 'i o'clock p. m. cu"h day. An,
invitation ix extended to the public
to uttend any all ipis'tiiuts.
Dr. Viekers' Brother Goes to France
Dr. P. D. Viekers received a letter
this week from his brother II. W.
Viekers, .with, whom ho practiced m
former years at' Little Falls, X. Y.,
in which ha says :
"I am leaving for New York and
will sail Saturday noon on the good
ship 'New York' to Liverpool, thence
tn London, and from there after join
ing n French Hospital Corps, will be
shiped to France."
Dr. W. H. Viekers, like his brother
here, is a very expert surgeon, and nl
iiiough many ron-sider it a foolr b
venture to go into the French hospit
al corps, the doctor is quite aware
that it will be a most valuable exper
ience, aside from the good he will In
able to do.
It
U.D STATES
HT
If Two be Established Doming Should
Have One of Them and it is up
to us to Get Very Busy
ADVANTAGES ARE UNDISPUTED
Judge Colin Neblctt and Summers
Curkhart Could Both be Ap
pointed if Plans go Through
The ui'iiu ih nf business in Ihc Unit
ed Stnii' ennrl nf New Mexico is so
innrked llinl it now wemn very proli
i Tit t fin t lliere ill lie two ennrl s es.
uililislu (I, one nl Simla Ke, and on"
in I In- southern purl nf the stale.
The untimely dentil nl' .lllilu'e II
limn I'npe lillll.es it neeessnry for the
lipp I Ill nl' II . 1 1 1 1 u ' In llll tilt!) VII-
i':iiii-y nl Sanln I'V, nud it is a well
l.iii. ii l.'irt I lint the death nf this em
inent .jurist was hastened hy the vast
it t i 1 1 1 1 1 uf wmk lluit fell iipnn his
1 It is mm ipiite ijeniTally
iiiili'i'stoml 1 Imi il will lie necessary
I'nr the nppninl nielli nf Iwn federal
.pulses.
The tv ueiitleinen mentioned for
these ImkIi mid honorable positions
nre .luil'.'e Colin Nrhlett nf this ilis.
triil and I'nited Slates Attorney
Sinnmers lliirkharl of Allnunieniue.
In ease nf the linmitiK nf two judges,
Imtli gentlemen enuld Ih' scleeted and
I he friends nf neither would he disii-
ppninli'd ttilh the iippninltlient of llio
other. 'I'liis however has nothing to
iln nith the Ineiilinu of the courts.
Ii i 'plainly iidp)it that mm court
will rcmiiiii in Simla I'V, in Ihc Feu-ci-al
Imililini; that was built express
ly I'nr federal purposes.
The locution uf the other court is
what most concerns the M'ople of
southern New Mexico, and the
(irnphic maintains that I t'liinijr is the
proper place for the establishment f
the district '. S. Court for southern
New Mexico. 'I'his lact is so obvious
ly plain I lint it hardly seems worth
w h'lc nieiitioiiim.'. Ocmin is connect
ed with tic- entire stale by all the
lailmaiU and can be reached from
any direction 1 1 1 1 1 1 y times 11 day.
The inlvmitiiKes as n place nf res
idence and ollVrinn aecominodntioiiH
lor isil hilt licilnnU is too well known
to speak about. We have every con-
veiiicn if any modern city. This
maltcr will be bronulit to the atten
tion of the proper authorities who
ouulit to be very easily convinced that
heiain'.' 1 the only place that should
be considered for tl stablishmcnl
of a distrii'l court in southern New
Mexico.
And we haven't said a word about
the superiority of our climnto or of
the purity of our water.
A Corporation With a Soul
icca-ii'iially we Had a corporation
!bnl looks uhove the plane cf 'lil'.r
am! cents. This was very plr.inly ex
iMplilie.l during the past week when
Mr. W. E. Bill, 10 whom rei'ircnce
wa 1 1.' ili- as ha v iic lost his wife
through the ravages of the white
plague, as the young husband spent
all his memis in 11 vain endeavor to
bring back the bloom of health to hi
wife, die. expected to temporarily
place the remains in the locnl ceme
tery, until such time as he was able!
t luiv I belli transferred to his obi
lime nt Flint, Mich.
Mr. Bell was formerly an employee
of the Buiek Motor Co., and whe..
Ibis corporation was advised of the
niifortiinitt' circumstances they wir
ed transportation and funds to have
the remains brought back home, and
made provision for Mr. Bell ami his '
family l,i return to his native state, i
Xol only this, but his position neces- j
snrily vacated by reason of bringing!
bis invalid wife lo the south, was re- j
stored lo him without loss of seuor-:
ily. j
All this was done without any sol-
citation on the part nf Mr. Bell, and1
was brought about just s soon as'
the officers of the company were no-!
lified through friends nf (he Heath of
Mrs. Bell. J
An net of this kind does a lot lo-,
ward hringlnir corporations and peo
ple closer together.
DSTRCT
SOCIETY
Thanksgiving In Camp Demlng
A sample of what Ihc soldiers en
joy wn exeinplilled yesterday' by
Company II, nf the 2nd Arkansas In
fantry, Captain I'arsnus eomniaiiilintr.
The following was the day's program:
First 'nil f ::tl a. in'., "lint Tom
and Jerry." Mess Call Dinner, As
sembly: Oyster Cocktail, Olives,
I'ieklcs, As.iirlcd Xnls, California
lira 1 n's, I'Viiil Salad, Unas! Turkey,
Dressini;, CraiilHTry Sauce, Celery,
I'etis, Corn, I 'allelic I Yallis, Chocolate
Cream I'liildiuj;, Cofl'ce, l'linn 1'ml
iiin.'. Del Mnlite Sauce, 'ii"jinia I lure
Wine. Civjais, Cit.iii'cllcs. :l:ll(l p. ni.,
Siik Call: :i:M p. m.. Kit rial; 1:110
p. 111., Taps.
Dinner Party
Mi's. M. It. Anient was hostess at
a beautifully nppoinlcd dinner at the
Harvey llnue In -I Thni'siln.v evenin';
in honor i,f CmIoiicI (ilenu ami Ins
humbler Mis-. Maruan t (ilenu. Mis..
(ileiill bus lecelitly I'cturueil I rum
(ieruialiv where she has bei u -linlviu.'
music, mid nunc In the bonier ..
peiid a few days with her lather.
She will leliiiu to (lermany -Imillv In
rcsinnc her studies.
I In- j
Miss!
Covers wrrc laid lor Iwelv
lioiinr unests. Colonel and
lileiin. Ma jnr icl.."ncy. Captain and j
.Mi's. Tillman, I'apluiu and Mi's. I'ill,. j
bury, Mr. ami .Mrs.
and Mi's. Moir. mid
Sam Will kins, Dr. i
Ihc host ,.ss. ,
Mr. and Mrs. Bush Entertain
Mr. and Mrs. II. (I. Iln-b entertain
ed al Thank-civ iu;.' dinner al I lie
Harvey House last evening. Major
Dcl.ancy. Ma jor !'. W. Weed, who ha.
just relumed I'i.iiii the cist, Capi.
and Mis. I'illsluirv and the Mis-.es
Hush.
I crniaii olFlinjslall. Arizona, who is
Co. G. Delaware Dine at Harvey 1 vi-iiim- 1 isier, Mrs. xi. j. Mm-an.
'flic "folks back home" from llov-j fti'tsi'l'"ui" '""'C Miss Iteruen)
it and Smvrmi, sent amiilc limils loLili.iuor t0 bolli Mr. and Mrs.
furnish the best Tlianksiviii.' dinner
at the best lintel, mid ill in nlai
wi'.h such instructions, id,, whole
company, headed by ('apt. John P.
l.cFcvre, with Major Marshall on his
left ami I .it' nt . Tomlinson on his
righl, enjoyed one of "Mrs. Harvey's"
best spreads hist cwuiiic;.
Dinner Party
Major and Mrs. F. Stritxingcr en
tertained al a llarvev House dinner
Friday evening . oinpliinenlary "
1 oionel r.. I', iilcnn anil ilaugliler
Margaret. A-idc from the host anil
lio-Icss ami guests of honor were
Major Dcl.ancy end Mayor M. A.
Xordhmis ami wife. Mi's. (Captain I
Jones and Mi's. A lie Sleeker.
Dinner Party
Mr. and Mrs. E. 1.. Fnulks nud Miss
lone llodgdnn cnlert. uucil al a din
ner Monday evening complimentary
In Major mid Mrs. Strilzingcr. Cap
lain and Mrs. Pcgrmii mid Major M
A. DeLaney.
Truck Co. No. 61 Have Some Eats
Motor Truck Co. Xo. Ill had a most
delightful Thanksgiving dinner, their
mciiii consisting of olives, celery,
oyster snap, crackers, roust turkey,
oyster dressing, cranberry .-aiice,,
roast nrk, bread dressing, apple sauce
candid', sweet pnlnlocs, nia-licil po
tatoes, stewed corn, sweet pickles,
French pens, mince pie, apple pic,
lemon pie, chocolate cake, cocnaiiul
layer cake, banaiin cake, apples, or
anges, bananas, coffee, cocoa, cigars.
1st Lieut. It. II. Fh-leher, Jr., was
the commanding nfllcer, and II. C.
P. Evans, is Iruckmnslcr.
Dance
A number of young ladies gave
11 complimentary dunce al the Deal
ing Club Tuesday evening in honor of
about U'U enlisted men nf the Dela
ware Infantry. The patronesses nl
the evening wen- Mrs. A. W. Pollard,
Mrs. E. I.. Foulks. Mrs. M. J. Moran.
Mrs. Henry Rnithcl, and Mrs. Sam
Watkius. A very dainty
was served bv Mesdumes
luncheon
Shepanl.
llndgdon and Holt. Splendid music
was furnished liy the 1st Arkansas
band. The enlisted men were very
much pleased with this evidence of
hospitality and took occasion tn
speak of it with grrat frequency.
Bush-Hall Entertainment
The second of the series of de
lightful reception given by Mrs. II.
(i. Bush mid Mrs. Henry nail at the
home nf the former on Pine street
occurred Tuesday afternoon, when j
ladies whose names begin with thn -
latter half of thu alphabet were en-
lerlaiiied. The house decoriilions 1
were nil carried out in red, the siimu
its last neck, mid presented an np-j
pcariincc I bat it would lie difficult to;
cipitil- The entire home bciii a bow
er of beauty through ingeniously de
vised electrical appliances, and the
artistic arraimement of floweis.
I In I be ilislribiitinu of prir.es for the
i winner in ,'iuo, Mrs. A. J. Tidinore
I won for 1 be matrons, the misses' go
1 ini! In Miss Mnrv Ma honey. The
refreshments were served in the us
ually plensim; manner in vo(nie in that
hospitable liome.
Dance
The ('amp Dcming Officer's Club
will (ir r its third dance at the Audi
torium loniuht. Music will be furn
ished by the 1st Arkansas band.
It uocs without snyiin; that a good
linn- will he had bv all.
Birthday Party
Little Miriam Dial entertained eiht
of her little (tirl friends Saturday
afternoon, to commemorate her eighth
birthday. The little folks had u most
deliu'hl till time and nil were served
illi ilainlv refreshments.
Bridge
Mr.. Muskcll Dial entertained at
h'-bl"c nl her homo on Pine street on
Vit'inl.iv al'lcrnoon.
Dinner Party
r, Captain)
Tillman ami Mrs.
(Cai'lainl Terrell entertained twenty
,,,;,... nicliiilinL' the wives of ofHccrs
and civfliaiis, til a very I'labnrnle
hinclici.B at the Harvey House Fri
day llonll.
Dinner Party
Mr. and Mi's. Sam Watkius ue
li'.'ht fully entertained nl a dinner al
the Harvey House last Wednesday
i' cane.' in honor of Mrs. P. J. Lind-
Watkius while thev were students at
1 in- I i,'iniit'- lliLrh School.
Dinner Party
l.icill. Charles W. James enter
tained at a Thanks'.nv in; dinner at
the llarvev ll.ui-c last cveiiinir, Col.
Mrs. James' Mi!
Cliarlcs 1. Janu1
M.ii' .l.itni... I i.nil mill 1. Slliv.lnt
I , . 1 , - 11 1
mil I .it'll t , Musi, ami .Miss Helen'
Swope.
ANDERSON IS UNDISPUTED
CHAMPION OF SOUTHWEST ;
;
Freddie Anderson who is fast he-;
ember a contender for the World's
I. iu'liivu'iht Championship, is now the
iituli-piited champion nf the South
west. His great match with "Bud"
I I. 111 limn ut the Auditorium la-l night
i'oii,g Ibis beyond U'iy doubt. As
Hamilton is one of the really worth
while men in his class, his match with
Aiidcrmi was of some importance,
but Freddie has lasting ipmlities that , ,t,illalions. He found in one well
l!,c oiher fellows have a hard time! .r(. the relationship between 1 1n
going against, lie always puts up a revolutions f the ip, the size of
dean, straight match and never at tu, discharge, and the lift were so
any stage of the games tries to win ut of adjustment that there was an
by other than sipmrc means. actual los f more than Hfty per
l.a t evening his work was very ' cent of the applied power. There is
much en.ioyeil hy the vast nuitience,
and when in tin- tenth round Hamil-
ton look the count, Freddie felt as
fresh as a June rose, as he nevei
eoiiiiacnccd lo put forth any efforts
until the eighth round. In a f"W days
AikIcI'miii will g to Vancouver, B. ('.,
to vi-it his mother, to whom he nl-
ways wires the result of his tights,
and who some day, may get n wire
that her boy is the world's lightweight
champion.
The match between Kenniev dud '
Bonner w-ns n draw and in the "battlr
royal with live participants, tnree
colored man and two Mexicans. Oscar
Heard, colored, was easily the last to
siay in Ibe ring.
.I,.,. Adams, the Wyoming wonder.
-..t 1 lie decision over dene Pnyv, of
El Paso, in one of the fastest and
hardest fought battles that has ev-
er lieen staged here. In fact all of
1 be mulches were up to the minute,
clean, square, and were rought nil the fourteen weeks have lie -i drawing
way through and the audience wMl.r,w,4 nt ,e F.I Paso Texas Grand,
sntislled with every attraction. Thei Hatunluv evening thev will present
fact is. Manager Porter will not have;tne sroat piny "Within the Law", and
anything else in his house,
Fred Mi Bride, an expert typewriter
repairman, is at the Dines Hotel foi
1 few da vs. lie repairs, cleans, and
generally overhauls all of the differ-
cnt makes, carrying nil tools and
parts for the work. Better have him
nttctul t yours, he knows how and
does it here.
,o;i
Noted California Ranch Manager
Says There is a Great Future
Ahead of Mimbres Valley
PRAISES PROF. ROBBINS' WORK
Makes Valuable Suggestions for the
Easier Development of Land by
the Use of Pumping Plants
The Mimbres Valley seldom has the
opportunity of having its resources
looked into by 11 man of the know
ledge and broad experience as is pos
sessed by Mr. Jerry Buckley of Cal
ifornia. We have had this distin
guished visitor in our midst for sev
eral days nud we feel flattered by his
coining here and .'pending so much
time with us, and we nre delighted to
know that he is carrying away witn
him a very lofty idea of Now Mex
ico and its people.
The (iraphic is indebted In Mr.
Buckley for a very pleasant call and
interview, lie is ranch foreman of all
ranch properties belonging to that
masler-buildcr, Edwin T. Karl, of .os
Angeles, Cal. He is an unassuming
gentleman, and one would scarcely
think hy his ipiict, impressive manner
tlila he is an eminent authority 011 the
various phases of agriculture and es
)Mcially irrigation by pumping. He
has had many years experience which
has taught him exactly what is nec
essary to make irrigation fanning in
a country like this, sucrcpsful. We
prine very highly his criticisms, ami
hope 11 little later on to print an urt
iele from him direct on the things
that are verv nccessnrv in this val
ley. In this connection we were ipiite
pleased mid LTatitled to have Mr.
Buckley pal Prof. 1). S. Kobbiim 0:1
the arm and say: "Here's a man to
whom the Mimbres Valley owes 11
great debt of gratitude for the very
mns,,'rlv mttnwr " which lie presen:-
eu iae ntivamngcs 01 mis region
to
ill, II n,,.. I,,,,,' mi; ,,,,- Kiiu iiitT in-.
...... . . 1
lination to bring it into projier culti
vation and production." Certainly I
Prof. Bobbins has been unusually I
successful in interest iiiL' a urent maiivl
men of large mean. in the superior1
advantages of this region, :nd Hie
(imphi,. believes in the "tell-it-to
them-w liile-thcv-are-nlive" nrinciide.
Mr. Buckley took special interest in
looking into the well, const ruction and
pump and power installation in var
ious parts of the valley. His keen in
sight and familiarity with pump, pow
er and lift as applied tn irrigation,'
led him at once to delect a very scr-
:,, ,i,.f,.t.t j .,,,,, f r i,u,i, in
a ilelieate nl.tt-t ma-iir nt all these
factors in pumpim: thai must be
maintained in the interest of fact
economy, and we are indebted In Mr.:
llueklev for his frank mid i-oii-truci-I
ive criticism in this regard. Ho point-;
ed nut that what is most needed here
is an intelligent supervision of the
things crtiiiiiiug lo .he water supply
and the cultivation of the land, as ,
well a farmers who are williiu; to
work and mal e the proper effort in
'he fanning of these lands.
Mr. Buckley says that with the soil, :
' in- min ..hit 'iin mai uuv
valley affords it is hound to become:
" f the leading agriculture lis-j
tr-cis in th,. I'nited States. j
Auditorium Gets Big Attraction j
m.,,,,,,, prter of the Auditorial,.1
i,.. fnrtuunt? enouuh to secure,
fl,r n,,n,iK Saturday evening nnd
Sumn.. afternoon ond evening the
unnt A mlrn -Allien Plnyers that for
will give another great play at the
Sunday afternoon matinee and still
another at the Sunday evening per
formance. Mr. Porter has reduced the prices
to $1, 50c and 25c; and there is no
reason why the big theater shouldn't
prove as great a drawing place at the
El Paso Texas Grand has for tlu
past fourteen weeks.
BUCKLEYS VI
c
DEfXG SCORES
A BIG VICTORY
County Snpt. Grace G. Goebel Elected
Secretary of New Mexico Edu
cational Association, Wed.
TAYLOR OFFERED PRESIDENCY
Was Elected Secretary of School
master's Club and Introduced
Some Big Resolutions
I cluing educators ure very popular
ill New Mexico educational circles, us
was evidenced at I lit' most successful
meeting of the Xcw Mexico Educa
tional Association held since its or
ganization, which closed at Suutu Fe,
Wednesday afternoon.
Superintendent J. B. Taylor pushed
aside I he crown when he was offered
the presidency of the statu associa
tion, because he t hough t in justice it
should he given tu the County Supei
llllcndellt's scclion. As it was, he
was elected secretary of the School
master's Club, the most exclusive
division of the educational associa
tion, aside from presidium in his usual
able manner over the city superin
tendent's section.
As a member of the Legislative
Committee, SuHi'intendenl Taylor
succeeded ill putting through soinu
resolutions 1 hut will be of inestimable
value Pi the school system of the
state when they am enacted into law,
as ihey ure mire t bv nt the coni ng
scssior of I ho legislature.
Kerning ,vas right up in tho lime
light all (he time, and when it came
to electing secretary nf the state ed
ucational usocintioii, the officer who
is rcspouMhlc in u large degree for
the success of any meeting, ut tho
suggestion of former secretary J.
Howard Wauiier, now Suerinteiulciit
of Public Instruction elect, Superin
tendent Taylor placed Miss Grace U.
liocbel, county Miperiiitendetit of
I. una county, ill nomination, and so
great was the pnpulurlily of the Luna
couiitv educator that no other nomi
nations were made. This is a great
coiiipiiiucni tn I. una county and tn
Dealing, as well us to Miss UooM,
who is recognized all over the state
as a woman who is continually doing
good things in every branch of the
service. Tho ofltt-e carries a sulnry
of $2.10.110 per year, and it is eonii
ilolilially evpeeted that Miss liocllel
will enter into a much larger educa
tional work I" which she is in every
way particularly adapted.
Dr. I'm nk II. II. Roberts nf the new
Mexico Normal University was elect
ed president ,d' the stale nsocinlinli.
Private Herzog Passes Away
1'iivate F. J. Il'-rzog, Co. D, Wyom
ing Infantry, passed away Tuesday
and his remains were sent by tho Ma
in.'.:,'' Company tn Fort Blis-s for in
terna'!,! the following day. Funeral
cM'i'i ie- were hel l nt Camp by Lieu
tenant I!. A. Tnrn- r. acting rector of
St. Luke's Episcopal church, wli is
otllciatn.g a- Chaplain for the Wyom
ie'' liViMin ni. Full military honors
Were accorded th,. deceased, 1,0 'Jnil
Arkansas Baud accompanying the
luiicrai cortege to the train.
Sergeant Cox to Take Examination
1 n I eceinler 4, Quartermaster
Seargeant Whitlield II. Cox, Q. M. C.
1'. S. Army, on duly with the Camp
(Junrtcrinastcr nt Camp Doming, is
ordered lo aps'iir before a board of
officers, of which Major F. G. Strit
ziuger, Cniiip Quartermaster, is pres
ident, l..r ev niiiniitiou for promotion
to grade of Quartermaster Sergeant,
Senior grade.
The Hisition for which Sergeant
Cox is to be examined is a new
grade to which only Q. M. Sergeants,
are eligible, ereuted hy the reorganix
ntioii bill nf Juno HMfi, and this is
the llrst examination, which will be
competitive among Quartermaster
Sergeu nl throughout the Army.
Sergeant Cox. it will lie remember
ed, organized the Camp Q. M. office
force at Deming in July, and exempli
fied how quickly a large office force
rould be whiped into line and com
mence active business.
There an over 400 Quartermaster
Sergeants, Q. M. C. in the regular
army and only 32 vacancies to be til
led by January 1918.
