WHEN IT HAPPENS IT APPEARS INTHE SUNW FIRST SB
. docs Into more liomcii In t arbon unt) and thr.nighout Heistem Pi..h ill II I ill IL LWHsffi$lgF3FNV 1S II U If II ' EBH
and Into more business house tffu., Ill ranes ". hooS VV J" v I I IHfelifoBaB fifi) II II I IL t OH
where newspapers nro read than am other one publication The Wh! -J J k JIJMlJ .X i IflSH
rJad town and ioa toampn m.rroumlln l'rlre ImNe nn nnnunl im."'.. f Ss N T"'' 'u u 'CT' ' T ISH
The Hun The merchant and . them wh, patronise It advertising POLITICALLY, H trU tJLI OMIN . BStl
olumiii gel result that count Hub, rlpll,,, Imok open t . nil InlemM Entered a. Second Class Matter. Juno 4. H18, nt th. Postofflca at l'rlce. Utah. Under the Act of March 3. 17. , !
.H.4. OLUiMC 2; NUMIIEK 27 EVEKY FRIDAY " DECCMIICK 1. 191G I , M
- ' 1 iH
MOUNTAIN SPRING WATER NOW
IS PROPOSED FOR CITY OF PRICE
A. C. Ellis, Jr., and Associates
. Present Plan That Ap
pears Equitable.
TWENTY-FOUR MILES OF PIPELINE TO COLTON
Price now hns the chnnce to secure upon what appears to be
equitable terms pure mountair (spring water piped to the city from
a point in the hills not far from Iho town of Colton. A. C. Ellis,
Jr., one of the prominent attorno)f Salt Lake City ami the West,
ia making formal proposal to the City council of Price to furnish
tho city an ample supply of the best water for domestic use. He
proposes to construct a pipeline frorri Colton to Price, which is to
Lo about twenty-four miles long and will cost approximately two
hundred thousnnd dollars. Tho gentleman states that he is ron
lescnting Salt Lake City capital in a legal capacity, and if suffi
cient consumers can be had the pipeline will be completed about
the first of June, next. Tho nystcm is designed to supply Cameron,
Castle Gate, Helper, Kenilworth and Price with water.
VERY LARGE EXPENDITURE INVOLVED.
On account of the largo expense involved, it is necessary that all
of these towns and camps tnko water under a contract system.
Otherwise it will bo impossible to interest tho necessary capital to
construct tho system. An infoimal meeting of the council was
held at the home of A. W. Horsley, mayor, on Wednesday after
noon last with the mayor and nnd all present of the council except
Councilman Thomas Fitzgerald. The latter could not attend be
cause ofsickness. The proposition submitted by Attorney Ellis is
that the water company, which is later to be incorporated, will
furnish Price a maximum of three hundred thousand gallons of
water a day. to bo delivered in either one or both of the city's
reservoirs. The cost is to be eight cents per thousand gallons. It
contemplates the city of Price retaining ownership of its water
system within the city's limits.
PRICE CITY TO DISTRIIJUTE WATER.
It is proposed that tho foregoing amount of water be delivered
to the city reservoirs, from which points tho city is to take control
c f the distribution of tho same. In order to obtain the benefit of
first-class water, it is necessary for tho city to make a twenty-five
.vear contract at a minimum rate of seven hundred and twenty
dollais a month. This will mean a slight inciease in the present
latcs, but when it is taken into consideration, say Ellis and his
KSHocintcs, that at present the city has to pump the water at
various periods of the year operating from twelve to eighteen
hours a day with a thirty-horsepower load, which will not bo neces
sary under the contemplated contract It will be seen that the
present rate will bo about the samo as that contemplated under
the plan proposed by Attorney Ellis nnd his company.
COUNCIL AND MAYOR HEAR PROPOSAL.
The need for better nnd purer vvnter for the city of Pi ice is so
apparent nnd so much desired by every citizen nnd property owner
that tho plnn as outlined by Attorney Ellis last Wednesday after
noon nt the homo of Mnyor Horsloy met with ready favor by every
member of tho council and will elicit their closest attention and
consideration at once. There is only one logical source from which
a purer water supply may bo had, and tho question of delivery to
tho city's reservoir has often been considered by tho present as
well as former city councils. Tho expense of preliminary surveys
i nd the final cost of constructing the necessary line mounts up to
an expenditure which this city cannot reach alone nt the present
time or for years to come. Prico's bonding power nt this time is
something less than fifty thousand dollars.
BONDING POWER Or CITY IS SMALL.
It has been argued by many that since Price lias not sufficient
bonding power to carry n water project through, it must either
come through a co-operation or partnership anangement with,
other towns and camps in the valley or else through a private cor
poration. Tho lnttcr plan, it is believed by many, is tho most
feasible, nnd this also seems to be the belief of Mnyor Horsley and
nt least a majority of the city council. 'Sinco a private corporation
ltns Interested itself In tho general welfaro of tho community, the
mayor and city council feel thnt tho plnn merits tho closest in
vestigation, nnd to that end wil give its aid and put the question
up to tho people for their approval or rejection in the very near
future. In fact, it has been decided by the council nnd mayor to
pass upon tho matter of submitting tho proposition to n vote in
the near future. This action will likely bo taken at the meeting of
the council on the evening of December 15th.
PROPOSITION OF ELLIS IN DETAIL.
Tho proposition of Attorney Ellis nnd associates is given in
uetnil below in the form of an ordinance, which the council is
naked to pass. Tho Sun publishes tho ordinance (or proposition)
lomplete that its readers and the public generally may know ex
actly what it proposed. Tho ordinance follows:
1! It Ordained U tho Major and
'Itj Council of Price City, Carbon
1 'untj, Utahi
Whrrius, Frlio Clt k the owner of
rlaln rlghta to appropriate, take
nd ue certain of tho waters of Price
'Her for the purpose of suppl) Ing the
inhabitant!! of tho city of l'rlce with
Mcr for domestic culinary and other
Purpom.il, and for municipal purposes,
Whereas, In order to utilize the said
waters of l'rlce rlcr for th purposes
aforesaid, tho city of I'rlco has hire
tofore constructed reservoirs and a
distributing sstem within the corpor
ate limits of said clt)i and
Whereas, Tho said waters of I'rlco
river are taken direct!) from Mid
river Immediately aboe the clt) of
l'rlce and dhcrtod Into said reser
voirs and distributing system; and
Whereas, The said waters of said
Prion river, where the same nro di
verted Into sold reservoirs as afore
said, nre polluted nnd contain Injuri
ous arid deleterious mutter, tin said
I'rlco river nhovu the said clt of I'rlco
being tilled with polluted drainage,
which fact has lx.cn railed to the at
tention of the ill) louncll of l'rlce
Clt) on numerous occasions hj offi
cers of the state board of henltn, who
notified the council that the water
being ud b) Iho Inhabitants of the
ill) of l'rlce was unfit for human
consumption, and that slips should
bo taken Immedlatcl) lo rcitlf) such
condition, nnd
Whereas, In consequenct of such
condition, tho said waters of said
l'rlce river, when Iho samo am di
verted Into tho said reservoirs of tho
rt of l'rlce, ns aforesaid, are unfit
fur domcstii, culinary nnd household
purposes nnd nru laden with disease
(terms which are n menace to tho life
nnd health of the Inhabitants of said
clt) of Price . nnd
Whereas, II) rciuon of the danger
ous condition of said wntir mid the
cnfnrird uso thereof by tho Inhabi
tants of said ilt of l'rlce, there has
been much sickness developed nnd ex
isting In said ill) of l'rlce for n long
time last past, nnd
Whereas, In order lo secure nnd
provide nn unpolluted suppl) of water
from said 1'rlie river for said clt) of
l'rlce, It Is nnd will lie nccesmr) nnd
essential to divert the wnters of said
l'rlce river nt a point about twent)
four miles nlovo the said tit) of l'rlce
mid to enrr) the snmo by mruns of it
pipeline from such point or plnco of
diversion to the said reservoirs nnd
distributing system of said city of
l'rlce Hint the cost of diverting the
wild waters of said Price river ut stub
pbue nnd the (onstrucllon of a pipe
line to carry the same to said reser
voirs nnd distributing s)stem will ex
ceed the sum of one hundred nnd flfl)
thousand dollar, n sum lx)oml tho
ubllit of said lit) of Price to pu),
la) out nnd expend then for, nnd
Whin on, A C Hills, Jr, nnd nsso.
rlniis have offered to provide means
nnd the neiessar pipeline for the
puriMise of iarr)lng the waters of wild
Price river In n nasonabl) pure con
dition nnd deliver tho samo to said
Prlci Clt) In Its reservoir aforesaid,
provided nnd upon londltlon that the
said ill) of Price will pu) to them the
sum of eight thousand six hundred
and fort) dollars pel )enr, pa) able In
monthl) Installments of sivm hun
dred nnd twent) dollars for three
hundred thousand gallons of wnier
pir da), dtllvired In snld reservoirs,
and provided that In care said clt) of
I'rlio shall require nn) vvuttr In ex
cess of said three hundred thousand
gallons per da), tho said A C Kills,
Jr nnd nssoclatis till dellvir thu
sami. If available, upon the re-quest
of said city of Price upon rcielvlng
pa) mint therefor nl the rate of eight
rents per thousand gallons per da)
to the umount of two hundrtd thous
and yallons additional pi r du), and
sivm cents pir thousand gallons so
furnished In ixiess of such above
amount.
The said clt) of I'rki, In iiinslder
ntlon of the bun Ms to ba received
nnd en Jo id b It b) reason of tho
suppl) of the said watir to It as afore
said, will enter Into a contrail with
the said A C. Kills, Jr., nnd nsso
ilates. the terms nnd conditions of
whlih said lontrait shall be substan
tial!) as follows
The said A- C Kills, Jr, nud asso
ciates shall, within twelve months
from tho execution of said contrail,
deliver or causa to be deliverid to tho
said ill) of Price In Its reservoirs,
three hundred thousand gallons of
reasonabl) pure waters of said Price
river per da), nud shall continue to
deliver tho said amount of watir In
said risirvolrs contlnuousl) thereafter
for a period of tvventy-flvo )iars Maid
clt) of Price, In consideration or the
dellviry f said water us ufortsald,
shall pa) or cause to be paid to sold
A C mils, Jr, nnd associates, their
siiciessors and assigns, the sum of
eight thousand six hundrtd and forty
dollars per )iar The said clt) of
Price shall have tho right and prlvll-
Iiho of receiving In Its reservoirs afore
said from said A. C. Kills, Jr, and
nssoclatis, their suiussors or us
signs, such additional vvuter as said
A C Kills, Jr, nnd associates, their
successors, or assigns, may bo uble to
deliver to said I'rlco City upon Its re
quest Bald clt) of I'rlco shall pa) to
said A C Kills, Jr, and associates,
their sucicuois or assigns, nt tho
rate of eight cents pir thousand gal
lons per da) to tho nmount of two
hundred thousand gallons additional
pir day, and seven cents per thous
and gallons so furnished In excess of
such above amounts The said watir
so to be delivered to said I'rlco Clt),
pursuant to the terms of suilt con
tract, shall be diverted from said l'rlce
river at a point not less than twenty
I four miles above tho said city of Price
land from thonco conve)cd to tho res
ervoirs of said city of Price b) means
of a pipeline to bo constructed by said
A, C. Kills, Jr, nnd ussoclatcs, their
I successors or assigns
I Tho said city of Price shall, upon
delivery of such vvattr In Its resor-
I voir, have solo nnd exclusive charge
and direction over the distribution of
(Continued on page eight)
LUPUS QOEHUNNINd
lollotvlng Man Who Itnn Awn) Willi
III Wife Irotii Kinllvvortli
Kiiienhere In Indiana or Mlihlgan
Is one sn Lupus, n innl miner from
KMillworth seeking the man who stole
his wife, his bab) nnd his inline), tut) a
Wcdnesdn) n Halt l-nke Telegram
When I.upus bonrded the train lure
for the Past on the trail of the man
who had robbed him, he made n vow
to kill him, for thnt, he snld, was the
custom In his native land of Hrlu
I.upus came to Halt 1-ako Clt) sev
eral (la)siRo nnd Intel his case before
Bherlfr John Corless. The matter
wss given Into the hands of Deputy
Sheriff Penrose He found thnt Mrs.
Lupus, In cumpnn) with Joe louls,
ntsu n H)rlan, spent one night In Halt
Luke Clt), then went to Ogdm from
there the) went llnit. und later Infor
mation developed thnt the) stopped
nt tlar), Ind
I.upus Immodlatily bonrded n train
nnd went to tho steel clt), but on ar
rival then found thnt tho pall had
departed for ptaies unknown, pro
sumabt) Detroit He has written
Deputy riherlff Penrose thnt hit will
not give up tho hunt until he has
found the mnn who robin d hlni nnd
gives hlni back his wife nnd bab), n
bo) of 3 enrs.
No blame U nttached to tho wife b)
I.upus. tivr duos he iare u great donl
for the monc) which he lost, two hun
dred dollars but ho auks only for ro
vetigo on llu man who robbed him
nnd for the nturn of his wife und
bab)
(JOIN TOJMSIDE
Prlcv Mutual to Vlll the CimiI Cninp
Ni U Kuudn) Ktinliig.
The Hun Special Hervlce
Hl'NNVHIDi:. Nov : Till public
Is must lordlall) Invited to attend tho
Mutual Improvement association of
Price entertainment nt the Uilli r-iln)
Hnliits minting house nt Hiiun)slde
next Hiindn) ovinlng, Detembir 3d,
whn nn excellent program will be
given l the visitors liegliiulng nt
7 30 o'clock, sharp It will be a
James VVhltromb Itlli) program Af
ter pru)ir, 'The Messiah of Nations,"
(horns, lluds Pair) Tule, Miss lliilh
Mlllbiiru, the Prioer Perfeit. tMIss
lira Harmon 'There, l.lltlo Ulrl
Don t Cr), ladles' trio, Life of James
Whllcomlt Illle), C It Mnrciisui. An
Old Hvviethtart of Ml in'. MIm Lola
Doner When the Krost Is On the
Piinkln," mlxul i horns, IJv-l'on, Miss
Alton Wilson, tho Passing of the
Heart, Miss lorn Harmon
Miss Tholma Touts of Prlii Is a
Thunkrglvlng guest of Miss Ml Id re J
L) nn
Mrs. Kdvviird llrenmr tntirtitlncd
tho Art Kmbroldery dub Tuesdn) af
ternoon Miss In tin I'unk, who Is uttindlng
Westminster lollege ut Halt Lake
City, Is spending Thanksgiving weik
with her parents here, Mi nnd Mrs.
C 11 Punk
Mrs. Hamuel Dugmore Is visiting
with her (hlldron at Perron
Mrs. P H. Darger Is visiting nt Win
ter Quarters with her dnughlir. Mrs.
It, I', Dorgan.
Mrs. Magnus lljarniison and fumll)
huve gonu to Hpanlsh Fork to make
their homo there.
Miss Jokephluo Madsem nnd Mr nnd
Mrs, Oeorge A. Nixon of l'rlce were
visitors nt tho homo of Dr. and Mrs
A. W, Dowd last Hunda).
About twent) of the friends of Mrs
Janus Ungrldge surprised that estim
able woman at lur home on Wednes
da) evening last.
Miss !vce Dennett entertained sev
eral oung folks most charmingly at
her home on Wednesday evening.
Mrs C II Punk was hostess to the
lltcrar) ilub Hnturday ufternoon,
those prisent I elng Mesdames A. W.
Dowd, 0. D. Wood, W N Wetxel nnd
II II. Norgurd
K H, Horsle) and II. a Malhls were
ecclesiastical visitors In Hunn)sldo on
Hunday last from Priie Nine mem
bers of the local relief soilety went
to l'rlce on I'rlda) to attend confer
ence Mr and Mrs C II Punk entettalned
at u theater part) Tuesda) Th" guests
wire Dr. nnd Mrs A W. Dowd. Mr
and Mrs. A D Hadley, Kvan Jones
and Icmun Vomer and MUses Ituth
Martin, Mar) Drown, In ne Thomas,
Viola Whlttnker, Ilarbara and Mary
Twaddle
Thu mines lontlmie to work full
six dais u week, while the coke ovens
are going along at full tlmo Tho tar
shortage Is not felt hert as nt the
other rnmpit of Carbon nnd Kmery
counties. More miners lire being
given work nt hood wagts ns the) np
Pi) Mr and Mrs . N Vctzel, Mr. and
Mrs J. M Hlapp nnd Mr and Mrs. K.
V Tucker nro to hava Thanksgiving
dinner at Castlo Gate with Mr nnd
Mrs. Thomas Tweidlo The) will go
up b) automobile
Dr A. W Dowd Is tho nomlnco of
the mass meeting held hero tonight
to name a candidate for school dlrec
for Ho Is opposed by W N Draper
and 1. A Llddcll, both of Wellington
Dr Dowd Is more than popular In this
camp aiiJ his friends look for him to
win hands down. Ills quallflcrtlon
for tho place ure of a high order
Others out for the nomination were
A K. llopkliison, Harriuol Na)lor, Mrs
Maud It. Thomas, J. T. Johnson and
lllshop Samuel Dugmore
COAL MINES WORK H
ABOUT POUR DAYS M
Partial Relief Comes From the Long Shortage fiH
of Railroad Cars Milder Weather PH
Also Helps the Situation. mH
J. H Thompson Of Castlo Halo, gen
eral superintendent of Utah Fuel com
pany's six producing mines In Carbon
lount), hns been In nnd out of I'rlco
about every day now for n week or
more In connection with the Kitchum
litigation Involving title to lands nt
Castle (late, heard In district court
here last week nnd this. He tells Tho
Hun that the inmpt of his lompnn)
nro just now working better than nt
nti) time for n louple or three months
In fact slnco the railroad car short
nge first became felt. Lnt week ench
mine got In four nnd five da)s I
cuu so of thu retenso of railroad cars
by Kostern railroads, which have been
nnd nro now finding thtlr way West
Ho anticipates that tho threatened
coal shortago wilt Ik n thing forgot
ten If present conditions continue
within the next few Weeks. The
wnrm weather nlsej has helped out tho
operators, although there Is )el n
largo number of mnl orders waiting to
be filled Utah Pucl lompnn) hns
nil along supplied tho domcstlu con
sumers of Utah with 7t7 per ctjnt of
their coal nud Is curing for Its pa
trons, tho sales ngeucles nt Halt Lake
Clt) nnif i Isew here, without an) great
Inconvenience to ntoone
Utah nnd Montutia smeltirs(nre
restless bocauso of Ihnnleneil fam
ine, but really have no grounds fur
such fears. This week tho railroad
car situation has cousldimbl) Im
proved nil through Kastern Clnh, ac
cording to reports from several of the
operating (ompanles to The Hun
ItVII.HOVDH Alii: TO INSIST
o t in: moil nr.mmitvtn:
The railroads of the rountr) will
mnko ii strcinibus right to have the
Interstate lommerio lommlsslnn is
tubllsh the high demurrage rates
which wire suspended until March 1,
IVI7 on tin protest of Kasttril ship
pine, The Ongon Hborl Line nud tho
Deliver und Itlo fl ramie nro both pre
paring to support tho higher demur
rage rates be Tore the commission n
ono means of solving tho car shortage
problom. Thn demurrage rata nt the
present tlmo Is two dollars u day after
the first twmt)-four hours. Tho rate
In Oregon nnd Montana Is one dollar
n da). In most of the Kastern Htates
It Is una dollar n da),
The railroads Insist that the de
murrage rate shall be two dollars for
the first da), three for tho second,
five for tho third and each succeeding
da) that shippers permit cars to
stand In tho nrds or at warehouses
loaded. It Is polutod out that n ship
per could not afford to pay flvo dol
lars a da) In order to store his mer
chandise In a railroad tar und that
this would guarantee quick unloading
8tatUtlcs gathered by tho two rail
roads during tho past two months
show that In a grent numbor of cases
shippers refused to unload perishable
rrolght, holding the goods In tho cars
to make "quick turns" In tho evunt of
an order for a carload of fruit. Auto
mobiles, merchandise, mal and rough
freight was held In cars for periods
ranging from ten to a hundred nnd
eighty da) a.
These statistics nru to be forwarded
to Washington, D. C, when hearing Is
had on thu applications of the rail
road to release tho suspension of the
high demurrage rates.
IOVV hPMMKU ItATUs OV COD
AUK MVV IIPINO CONHIDimi.D
Anticipating thut the legislature
which meets in January, next, will
create u public utilities ittnmlsslon
and make possible a mora equltablo
adjustment of freight rates, Indopen
dint coal dtnlirs already are prepor
Ing a schedule of lower ratts on coal
for storage at several points In Utah.
Anti-trust laws prevent loul operators
from forming a combination for the
fixing of prices, but each of Iho Inde
pendent concerns Is working on Its
Individual schedule und all are prac
tical!) the same. Tho present loal
thortAKe and advanco In price has
brought the matter to a head, and
producers express hope that through
the operation of a summer and winter
rate It will lu future preclude tho re
currence of any such condition as has
existed In Utah this iar.
This tentative price list for tho )eur,
giving a spread of one dollar between
the summer low rate nnd winter
months' high rate, fixes the prlco of
lump coal at two dollars at thn mjnt
for tho months of May nnd Jane, and
nut coal at J 1 76 for the jamo months.
Pur July H Is proposed to market
lump coal at ts 86 nnd nut ut $3 00
In August tho rates will be 2f0 and
f 3 25, September, it 76 and IS Be, and
from October lit on tho prlco will be
$3 00 and 3 BV This schedule of
prices, giving a range of one dollar,
offers an Inducement to dealers and
Individuals to store loal, as It will
CAIt HIAWATHA CO VI, (.OUS TO ssssssH
THi: KTKVMHIIIP TAHHAUUT" SgH
Isggi
Hisssssssl
One feature of the coal sltua- SkH
tlon locnll) Is the shipment on Hl
Wedncsda) last of u car of fifty BVH
tons of coal from thn lllawntha HfeH
mine In Carbon county of the Hl
I'nllid Htates 1'uol lompany to M
Han Diego, Cnln , mi r the Halt H
Lake llollte, tyf thy United H
States vvnrshlp. ' li'nrroHUt. This 4 H
Is snld to bo the- first luatnnco H
whero nn order of tlluh ioal has Dvcisssssi
been mado for the naOTTl The Dil
West Virginia ioal vni tlnlmcd J BH
to be "Iho thing" Incidentally, H
It Is snld, certain men Influential I H
nt the nntlonnl inpltnl Were ) BH
known to be Interested In the " KH
Wist Virginia coal mines Hut gssssssfl
now that the Pnrkcrsburg, V. , WM
Vu , mines nro re pnrted prnctl- ' H
(nil) rinsed down fur lack of H
mm nud rnrs, Utah coal Is gladly flH
used Us quallt) for naval pur- t ssssssBI
poses uppan nil) In Ing re cog- ' H
nlxi us udequnti . H
sssssssssfl
f BSSSSSSSSsfl
make possible tho saving or consider- H
able mono on the ear's gross bust- ; H
ness. 1 H
Ihe operation of such u schedule I
would prevent the henv) demand on M
the mines during the earl) winter ! H
months und would make possible tho
mines btlng better nlde to handle the IH
winter demand. Huch u schedule
would keep the mines In operation
during the summer mouths nnd plenty
of labor would to available when
winter, nets In Men released early j
this spring have found pie nty of work H
In metal mines nnd the usual Influx of i H
ioal tnlmrs at the opening or winter i H
did not occur this eur As n result H
Iho mines nro shorthanded
M-VLKD UP W)IIM. MINI: IS flggi
Discovr.itKD to in: ov i um wKM
KKMMKKKIl, Wo, Nov 3B 'sssssssss!
Following close upon the announce- IssssssssH
ment tho other da) thut tho Conroy 'H
coal mine had been Itased from the i H
newl) orgttnliitl Wopa Coal lompany ggH
of Pennsylvania mme tho sturlllnr IggH
discover) that Iho proper!) was on NLH
fire The discovery was made when ll
W K Powell, foreman In charge of J 'll
thu mine, unsealed tho opening of one UnH
of tho main leads prepurator) to be- -llsssssssssssl
ginning development work. The mine sssssssssfl
was discovered to be full of smoke , H
and It Is fiarcd that combustion, dur- J H
Ing the man) months that the mine ilggH
has been Idle, has set one whole wing friiH
of the mlno on fire, which will ham- ssssssssfl
per development work until tho fire ItaLLI
tan be extinguished. tM
The mine wus liastifn few da)s ago ggH
from tho newly orgunlied Pennsyl- 'rTisssssssH
vanla company by A K. ond Kmmett HbssssH
P. Annls of Salt Ijiko Clt), These ifvH
promoters have named their company t ll
the Itock Hprlngs Fuel company and ' HsgH
It was their intention to begin duvel- PgH
opment work on u large scale with a NH
view to producing four hundred to Itggl
five hundred tons of coal dull). It Is ssLsssssi
hoped by the officers of the leasing HH
company that tho fire In the mine jH
will not prove as serious as It was nt lH
first feared. Kven If the end or the BLH
mlno discovered to lie on fire were not iiH
worked, It Is probable that the other Issssssssi
wing of It will be worked as no fire lgH
has been discovered In that portion ' ' HH
f It , ) jH
CUVL I'HICIX Aim HAIKri) I Cl
HV "U.NCLI.- JP-KSi: ICMOHT 'Hl
Following the lead of several other laVgesssss!
Indipendent cufiipKhles, the Hprlng i jH
Cuii) on Coalcompin) last Monday ' tH
announced nrrlscir sixty lenta a ton i jggl
on all gradesvoftfomestlo ioal. With IH
ono or two exceptions, alt tho Inde- SgH
pendent operators now have announe- Hl
cd a uniform raise In the prlco of oal j ggH
nt tho mines The Utah Fuel com- ) 'ssssH
pany has not advanced prices and of- !gH
fleers of the company express the j H
oplolon that pros-iit prices will be MHiigl
malntnlned MPgsH
While the coal ards of Bait Iike ' IBsH
City nnd Ogden are far from having a glggH
full supply on hand, tho situation Is I iigLIH
reported as considerably easier than a lH
wcok or ten das igo The mines are 1 ilssgsH
)et unable to work full time because ) HH
of tho shortage or railroad cars. JDhE
UTAH 1LMLHOAT) l'AH OUT ' .aflsH
HUdi: hDMH 1H ITS COAIl , iH
During the )car from October 31, il PH
1816, to October 31, 11C, the Oregon tHgsH
Bhort Line paid out I1.4S1.60J for (A fflHSl
fuel to run Its locomotives and shops II HMe
and other places whero stoam Is cod- , HHHf
ed. All of the rouds of the country ssswT MtlHHfl
are endeavoring to cut down the cob- HHfelf JHiH
(Continued on page four.) BhIHmk9Lwj
