The Ecko ha? a
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
sona who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 48
WENATCHEE VALLEY AT THE
9TH NATIONAL APPLE SHOW
As Usual Captures the Lion's Share of
Big Prizes—Tedford Bros. Win the
Sweepstake Prize—J. B.
Schons in the Ring
The Ninth National Apple Show
closed last Saturday evening in a blaze
of glory with the largest attendance —
almost double that of any previous
year. Spokane is highly pleased with
the attendance. The princess feature,
which was one of the social features,
was declared a success.
Tedford brothers of Wenatchee were
awarded the world's championship for
the best five boxes of apples by the
judges of exhibits at the Ninth Nation
al apple show. The prizes is $250.
The award was made <Jn five boxes
of Spitrenbergs, scoring 94.6. The
five boxes are at the left side of the
main aisle, and are directly in front of
the entrance to the grounds. Each of
the boxes contains four tier. So near
ly alike are the apples in size and shape
that they look as if the same adjust
ment of a pair of calipers would fit
each apple.
The firm of Tedford brothers consists
of G. J. Tedford and A. C. Tedford.
The brothers are ranked among the
leading growers of the Wenatchee dis
trict. They have been taking prizes
at apple shows for many years. Their
orchards are at Wenatchee and Brew
ster.
Besides winning the Allen Meisen
heimer special prize of $100 Thursday
for the best box of apples brought to the
apple show, J. B. Schons of Wenatchee
was awarded first for the best box of
Yellow Newtowns; first prize for the
best box of Rome 3eauties; second
prize for the best Spitzenburgs, and first
prize for the best box of Rainiers.
For the best box of Staymen Wine
saps, E. G. Broderick of Cashmere was
awarded first prize.
A. L. Smith of Brewster exhibited
the best box of Jonathans. He got
second prize iB the Winesap class, and
third for his display of Spitzenburgs.
Roy Smith of Brewster won first for
Grimes Golden and third for Winesaps.
First prize for Ben Davis apples went
to Tedford brothers of Wenatchee.
They also took first prize for Wine
saps; first for Arkansas Blacks; first for
Spitzenburgs, and second for Delicious.
W. H. Barbee of Zillah won first a
ward for White Winter Pearmains.
George Williams of Entiat won sec
ond prize.
Just one prize was awarded in the
Missouri Pippin class, that noing to
Frank Worthen of Cashmere.
Dan Gamble of Brewster won first
prize for the best box of Mammoth
Black Twigs and second for Rome
Beauties.
C. E. Chase of Brewster received
second on Black Bens. Mr. Chase also
won second for Mommoth Black Twigs
and third for York Imperials. Marion
Sanders of Entiat took first for the best
box of Champions. He also got third
for Mammoth Black Twigs. P. H.
Heibert of Trinidad won first for Stay
man Winesaps A. J. Thompson of El
tiat won third on Baldwins.
First prize for Delicious went to F.
W. Lary ol Wenatchee and L. J. Sellers
of Wenatchee won third for Winter
Bananas. E. N. Foster of Wenatchee
took third on Arkansas Blacks.
The advisability of establishing a by
products plana at or near Wenatchee
for the handling of cull fruit of that
section, and the possibility of operating
a series of these on a small scale as in
dividual enterprises of the orchards of
the northwest were discused at the
closing session of the fruit growers at
the chamber of commerce.
Dry Wave Hits Distilling Company
The telegraphic news in the daily
press of Tuesday tell that the national
distilling company, »n eighty-five
million dollar corporation, with head
quarters in New Jersey, filed articles of
dissolution the first of this week.
Echo want ads bring quick results.
tlbe Xeavenwortb iB^ hz
What Will Happen Afterwards
The political campaign is a thiDg of
the past, but the problems of the Un
ited States are things of the present
and future.
Recently the submarine freighter
"Deutschland" appeared in New Lon
don, Connecticut, with $10,000,000
worth of goods from Germany.
When Germany can send us goods
under such circumstances as these,
what will she not do when the war is
over and her ships are free to traverse
the ocean without let or hindrance.
(Lebanon, Ore. Criterion)
THE BOOZE QUESTION HAS
ANOTHER INNING TUESDAY
Council is Petitioned to Put Restrictions
on the Sale of Alcohol-Ordi
nance is Introduced
The city council held its regular
meeting Tuesday evening with four
members present, Hale, Reynolds, Mil
ler, Snyder and Kugelman and Mayor
Day presiding.
After roll call, reading of minutes
and auditing bills City Marshal Teshera
presented the report he had been in
structed to make on the sale of alcohol
by druggists. Mr. Teshera says the
books at Wheeler's drug store show
18 prescriptions filled and 65 sales of
alcohol for mechanical purposes. At
Koerner's there were 140 sales of alco
hol for mechanical purposes. This
covered a period &f 28 days.
The prohibition law puts no restric
tions on the sale of alcohol for mechan
ical or scientific purposes. To remedy
this obvious defect a petition was cir
culated asking council to pass an or
dinance that would require a permit
signed by the city clerk and the police
judge for each sale made. When pre
sented to council the petition con
tained 266 names.
Council looked with favor on the pe
tion and an ordinance which had been
prepared by City Attorney Nelson was
given its first readinp. It provides a
fine for both buyer sad seller for the
first offense and a jail sentence for the
second disregard of its provisions.
An agreement from the Tumwater
Light & Water Co. to furnish the street
lights for the coming year at $125 per
month was accepted. Any additional
lights authorized by council will cost
82 per month extra.
A building permit was issued to
Ross Irwin. the laundryman.
The dog nuisance came up again
and old Towser, man's truest an best
friend, was "kicked aroun' " by every
one present. Some plan will be car
ried out to restrict his freedom and
keep him off the streets and other peo
ples' premises, and make him a good
dog.
Library Benefit Scenic Theatre
Dec. 14th.
The members of the library com
mittee are making arrangements for a
benefit to be given December four
teenth, at the Scenic, Theatre. The
proceeds will go to buy books for the
Public Library. The program will con
sist of moving pictures and some good
local talent.
Miss Lora Thornhill of Wenatchee,
whe has been teaching dancing to a
class of girls here, has consented to
give a Solo dance, she will also present
her pupils in fancy dances. Look for
further notice next week.
Have Family Reunion
Thanksgiving day 1916 will be re
membered by Mr. and Mrs. H. S. Mc-
Nett, for the reason that for several
years this was the first time all the
children took Thanksgiving dinner at
home. Mrs. Durham had been here
for ten days but was joined by her
husband, who arrived here from Seattle
Wednesday, On the same day arrived
Dr. Harry McNeil, with his wife, from
the Palouse country, where he has
been practicing his profession, for over
a year.
Buttar Wrappers at The Echo office.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, December I, 1916
FIRLMAN DAHMS KILLED IN
HEADON COLLISION DRYDEN
Mail Train No. 1, Three Hours Late, Hit
By an East Bound Freight at
4:45 Friday Afternoon
Passenger train No. 1, due here at
2 p. m. was running three hours late
last Friday afternoon and trying to make
up lost time. Engineer Oakly Algren,
a veteran at the throttle, was in charge.
He was running on a clear order lor
Dryden, and you may be sure he was
stunned when the headlight of a loco
motive shot into view when he ap
proached Drydeu. He threw on the
air, gave an alarm whistle and went
out thru the window. His fireman on
the opposite side had already gone thru
the window on his side of the cab.
The east bound freight, with Engin
eer Carl at the throttle, should have
taken the siding at Dryden, but thot
he could make the next station and
took the long chance. He hit the
passenger engine just east of the sta
tion. When he saw the headlight, of
No. 1 he went out thru the window
after throwing on the air break. Fire
man Dahms was not so fortunate. He
jumped but was covered with wreckage
from the train and killed. Mr. W. 0.
Atwood who was on No. 1 on his way
home from Wecatchee says the impact
when the trains struck was quite severe
and shook everybody up. No one
was injured ie the train.
The two engines were considerably
damaged and some five or six freight
cars loaded with shingles and lumber
were wrecked and the contents scattered
along the track. The track was cleared
by the following morning and traffic
resumed.
Fireman Dahms- was a new «uo,
having taken employment with the G.
N. in August last. He was of German
birth and about 24 years old. He had
a young wife who made her home in
Leavenworth.
Funeral services over the body of
Hans Dahms was held in the Lutheran
church Monday afternoon, and the
body laid at rest in the local cemetery.
Industries Crippled by Laws
The fruit industry at best is nofcwery
profitable and in many western states
is crippled by foolish restrictive laws.
Growers say they find it almost im
oossible to make anything growing ap
ples and yet we advertise that as one
of our pet industries.
Recently at Tremonton, Utah, a
cider manufacturer received a car load
of cull apples and had to pick out
many on account of worm holes. He
offered to sell them at low prices to
Door people who were glad to come
and get them as they cannot afford to
buy the perfect apples. The local
fruit inspector stopped the sale, hold
ing that the law did not allow the sale
of imperfect fruit to the general public.
The Bear River Leader says this is a
foolish gag law and should be repealed
and that such drastic laws have nearly
killed the fruit industry. Growers
should be allowed to sell their apples
without spending as much as the crop
is worth to make the package attractive
to millionaires.
In Oregon a similar fool law prevents
manufacturing jellies from the wastage
and windfalls of the orchards, and jel
lies are bought in the east. There the
apple growers have not so many fool
laws invented by soft-handed college
graduates who never work for a living
at any industry.
Married in Spokane Monday
After securing a license in Spokane,
last Saturday, Mr. O. Yates, of North
Yakima, a well known sheep man who
spends much time here every summer,
and Mrs. Carrie Huston, proprietor of
the Washington hotel, of Leavenworth,
were quietly joined in wedlock Monday
of this week, according to authenticat
ed report received. The newly wedded
will spend some time in the Yakima
country at Mr. Yates home and will
then come to Leavenworth.
Building Ships All For foreigness
Wouldn't it be wise for our govern-;
ment to pass a little legislation favor- J
able to American owned ships? Our i
present laws are great for the foreigners
but they have practically wiped the
American flag of! the seas.
Our ship yards are all busy building
ships at an unprecedented rate but if
you read the newspapers, you will note
that anything larger than a rowboat or
coastwise schooner is for a foreign
country.
Where is American pride that it al
ows this condition to continue?
McDANIEL HOME AND
CONTENTS WERE BURNED
Loss $2,000 on Building, $1,000 on
Contents—s3,ooo Insurance—
family Away from Home
The home of Prof. Jas. McDaniel,
together with all the household goods
and contents'^was^.destroyed by fire
Wednesday night between 9:30 and 10
o'clock. The home is situated on the
south side of the Wenatchee river di
rectly opposit the town and was com
paratively new, consisting of seven
rooms with all modern conveniences.
Mr. McDaniel with the family was at
his daughter's for th« day. In the
evening alter band practice, Mr. Me-
Daniels with his family started home in
the sleigh of M. O. Van Brocklin, a
neighbor. They reached the McDaniel
home and had gotten out of the sleigh
before they noticed that the house was
on fire. It was too late to save any
thing. The whole inside was a seething
mass of flame and had evidently been
burning for some time. Among the
contents was a fine piano and a yiolin
over two hundred years old, valued at
81500. Mr. McDaniel is quite a mu
sician, plays on sever*! instruments and
teaches music as a profession. He
has taught the Leavenworth kid band
for the past ten years. In truth he ha
turned out three or four bands, count
ing the coming and going of boys.
In their loss the sympathy of the
entire community is with the McDaniel
family. They have lived here a long
time and are universally respected.
Community Program
The second community program
given last Friday was a decided success.
It was opened by Mrs. Carter with two
vocal numbers; At Dawning by Cadman
and The Star by Rogers. Following
this were two violin numbers by Miss
Snyder accompanied by Dr. Briggs,
the Grieg number being especially
enjoyed. Mrs. Le Gros, whom we
always enjoy, gave a fine dramatic
reading, The Love Story of Pauline
Pavlowa. Her reading was made doubly
effective by the playing of the Destiny
Waltz thruout the number. Her
graciously given encores were enthus
iastically received. Mrs. Carter gave
a second group of songs, very well
rendered, and as an encore gave one
of her own composition. Miss Elizabeth
Nicholas ended the program with a
Schumann number which was so much
enjoyed that she gave a popular selec
tion, The Dancing Doll which wa»
daintily rendered. The date for the
next program will be Thursday Decem
ber 14. The community is showing
by its ready response its appreciation
of the efforts of Mrs. Carter to bring
before the people only the belt in
music.
SHORT NEWS NUGGETS
Selling bananas by the pound is one
of the sensible innovations started by
Spokane gTocers. The wonder is this
was not adopted long ago.
Rev. W. J. Hindley, once mayor of
Spokane, now pastor of a church in
Canada, is going 11 France with the
Canadian contingent in the capacity of
chaplain of the 190 th batalion.
Tacoma is springing capitol removal
again. Capitol removal is much like a
mouldy chestnut. There's nothing in it.
WENATCHEE VALLEY BOYS
AND GIRLS AT STATE COLLEGE
The Pullman Schools are Drawing Lar
ger Number Every Year—What
they Are Doing.
The state college of Washington at
Pullman is becoming more popular
every year with the young people
of the Wenatchee valley who go
to colleges. This year there is an in
crease of nearly ten per cent in the en
rollment from Chelan County over last
year.
Wenatchee Valley students who are
attending the state college this year
are: Stanley T Arnold, Katherine Con
ney, Henry Hartman, Julius Hollmann,
Esther Horan, Alice Mary Lodge,
Harold P. Misel, Roy Larson, Percy
Gooden, W. R. Mills, and Kellogg
Carlyle.
Probably of most interest to Wenat
chee valley residents is the Apple Show
held at the state college the first part of
November. Roy Larson, of Wenatchee
was general manager of the show which
was the second of its kind held. The
Wenatchee North Central Washington
Fruit Growers League received a Silver
Cup for the Best District Disply of
apples at the show. Julius Hollmann
and Henry Hartman also assisted with
the show.
Professor Severence head of the agri
cultural department at the state college
is advocating the crowing of peas for
the farmers of Washington. 'He says
eastern seed companies have discovered
that this state is one of the few places
where good clean pea seed can be
grown and the farmer will therefore find
a good maiket for this product. It is a
crop that can take the place of summer
fallow on wheat lands and leaves the
ground in a rich and mellow condition.
From 25 to 30 bushels of peas to the
acre is an average crop in this state
and the seed companies pay from 2 /4
to 4 cants a pound for the seed. They
furnish the seed to the farmer, who re
turns it in like quanity after the harvest.
Probably the most interesting social
function given at the state college this
year was the formal banquet and dance
the Pi Beta Phi sorority held, Friday
evening, November 17th. Many alumni
of the sorority returned to the state col
lege for the event. A beautiful dinner
was served at six o'clock at the chapter
house after which aatomobiles took the
girls to the big gymnasium on the col
lege campus where the dance took
place. A solid ceiling had been made
entirely of evergreen boughs from which
hung myriads of fluttering butterflies.
In one corner of the room a hut had
been constructed, covered with greens
in which punch w»s served during the
eveniDg. Over one hundred chrysan
themums were used in the decorations.
Many sacks of greens and ferns had
been received from the coast to decorate
with. Cozy corners were prominent.
Favors for the girls were kewpee dolls
and for the men, violet buttonhole bou
quets. A feature of the evening was
the dancirjg of the quaint minuet by
eight girls. Miss Marshall of Spokane
whistled a number of solos and Miss
Zora Giffin, an alumnis sang. Miss
Alice Lodge and Esther Horan, both of
Wenatchee are members of the Pi Beta
Phi sorority who gave this party.
The following students are from En
tiat. Albert Ely, a freshman in Agri-
culture; Charles G King, Junior in
Chemistry and L. S. McKay, a sopho
more in Chemistry.
Carlyle Kellogg of Wenatchee is pro
minent in debate work at the state col
lege, and is trying out for the big Idaho
State college debate which comes off
some time in December.
Ephrata's Oil Recrudescense
Grant county has had oil discoveries
before. Last spring they had a sure
enough oil well. Now they have a
still more sure-enough oil well. Ac
cording to the Wenatchee World they
now propose to supply the Wenatchee
valley with crude oil for heating pur
poses The laying of a pipe line is to
begin tj.xt summer.
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. If you want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this orrice.
$1.50 Per Year
Will Investigate Cattle Raisins in South
America
Three young men, Hal Stark, William
Jones and Charles Kra'z left the fim
of this week for the coast, from where
they expect to engage passage to Bue
nos Aires, South America.
The young men have read about the
advantages and the profit in raising
cattle in that far southern country and
they want to investigate conditions for
themselves They expect to spend
the winter in the southern hemisphere.
RECORD CROWD GO TO GUN
CLUBS ANNUAL SHOOT
Fine Sport and an Excellent Repast-
Some Good Shooting and long
String of Prizes.
The Leavenworth gun club held its
annual Thanksgiving turkey shoot at
the club grounds on Sunday last, altho
there was quite a depth of snow on the
ground, the sun was bright and warm,
and ideal for shooting, which brought
about seventy members and their
friends to the grounds. Trap and rifle
contests were pulled off as long as a
glimmer of light remained, Those not
desiring to shoot played games, the
best players getting the turkeys.
An excellent turkey lunch was pro
vided by J. A. Hearst champion sour
dough cook of Nome, Alssks, assisted
by I. W. Faulkner, our genial towns
man. Charlie Eckhardt deftly dismem
bered the turkeys at the same time
giving a dessertation on carving from
the well known book entitled, "When
Father Carved the Duck." altogether
it was one of the most successful shoots
pulled off by the club and enjoyed by all.
At the moment of writing, all the
turkey winners had not deposited their
vouchers at the meat market. The
following are the names of those who so
far have called for birds.
Those who won two turkeys were
R. Templin John Hartman and L.
Wilson. The foiling won one W.
Atwood Robt Smith C. A. Fox J.
Smith C. Wilson R. Chambers S.
Schutz L. Spidel Sam Daly A. A
Pinsch N. B. Day D. A. Burgett A.
R. Brown J. B. Huff Jess Mull Chas
Eckhardt H. C. Blankenship one duck.
SCHOOL NOTES
There will be a basket ball game
here Friday evening between Wenat
chee and Leavenworth.
Our basket ball boys are practicing
each week but as yet no school team
has been organized.
The ancient history period Tuesday
afternoon was given over to discussion
of current topics of political and his
torical interest.
School was dismissed early Wednes
day afternoon so that the teachers who
were going to the coast for yacation
could catch No. 1. Miss Meier and
Miss Ball spent Thanksgiving with
relatives in Seattle. Miss Gage spent
her vacation at Bellingham. Mrs.
LeGros went to Everett for vacation.
The Leavenworth schools received
this week 90 varieties of mineral and
rock which the extension department
of the state university sends out to
schools thruout the state. The manual
training boys made a cabinet which
was put up in Room 2 to hold the
specimens. All the science classes
can use to advantage the minerals they
have received.
The Washington Shipbuilding Co.,
incorporated for $500,000 at Tacoraa,
has contracts for building 8 steel
steamers for foreign owners at a cost of
about $5,000,000, work on plant to
start in about 30 days This company
has no connection with the Tacoma
Shipbuilding Co , recently incorporated
for $300,000, nor Vith the Pacific
Coast Shipbuilding Co., incorporated
for $100,000.
Speaking of the defeated referendum
in the event the legislature re-enacts
them, the Enamclaw Herald says:
"Capital must see labor's side and
labor capital's Bide —and both mast
reckon the good to the great majority."
