52D YEAR.
OltKGON MAKF.S ANOTHER
.STIUllE FORWARD.
Oregon's New, Modern Post Office
Now Occupied by Postmaster
Hugh (i. Harsha.
The innrch of progress has nrnln
lwen written on tlio pages of tho his
tory of our fair city, by the addition
of n modern, up-to-date pout office
structure. Tho city linn lieon going
grndunlly along on the pro.trr-slve
mud for innnv i'eara na.t. maklmr
r.n leaps nnd bounds of the sky-rocket
variety, but every movement nas won
of that substantial and permanent
rhnracter that brings confidence to
Ma people and fal'h In Iti future.
With it electric HghtA and writer
syAtem, lt.i local mllrond enterprise,
Its magnificent new high school struc
ture, nnd Its paved AtrectA. the last
niche In the ndvnnce step of Improve
ment and dcvoloomcnt. now comes to
in through the pulillc spirit of our
fellow-townsman, Alex. VnnBusklrk,
who makes It possible for the city of
Oregon to liavo one of the mort com
plete, modern and In every way, up-to-date
pout oftVes In Norlhwoft Mis
souri, excepting those cities who have
been favored with n fcdetfll building.
The building, known oa the Van-Dusklrk-Prnud
corner, the most con
spicuous building In our 'city. Ia now
occupied hy Postmaster Hugh 0.
Harsha, nnd from which place the
.United StntcA mall Ia now handled.
It Ia -aid to bo " long way to Tippcr
nry," and it Ia evidently n long way
through "the red tape" routine to ac
complish some things through the
various governmental departments
It hi been fully a year Aince steps
were taken, ilooklng to tho securing
of this building for post office pur
poses. An Inspector had been hero
negotiating with Mr. VanRusklrk,
with the view ot securing a lease on
the building. It looked at times that
It would, not bo a go by reason of the
exactness on the part of tho postal
department, and white the building
has always been good property, bring
ing good returns as an Investment to
Mr. VauBusklrk, his publie spirit and
local pride prompted him to yield to
these, and close the lease with the de
partment, and now we have a past
eMce that's worth yottr while and a
lasting gratitude Is due Mr. VanBus
kirk from the people of this city and
'surrounding community for, giving
to them what Oregon has long needed
I. a Ant-class post office building.
Mr. VsmHusldrk la one of the' city's
bulldersi he haa never." lagged -In may
way,. In helping to advance the Inter
ests of the city, and has always dene
his part to his very fullest
The Vantlusklrk-Proud building
was erected In 1890, the corner prop
erty being owned by Klliy VanBus
kirk, father of cir fellow-townsman,
and the cast lot being owned by the
W;... ) I ' ? " -(
Ufa Irfc MmM ' Setrfwel
' DC Vav hogs to become Infested theyi I """
0) he kept Injclcnn, well drained R I
F ' should nnRiinn llnl with frehi-n
OREGOWi'" wal" ,an'' not '" .jilDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1916.
H lime V
NUMBER 31.
isaLaLKrX 'aaaaaaaaaH
BsaBsasaBWar'a n VasaaB
9sBLiBsmv ' U"v3RsBP
infaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaT " 1 1 . 4BHfc
SbIbSBSBSBSB atLV aSBSBSBSBSBSBl
HUGH G. HAHSHA.
Fostr.iaster of Oregon.
late C. O. Proud. These two lots were
originally occupied by the first court
nouso or our county, which was erect,
cd in 1842.
Judge VnnBusklrk came to Holt
county in 1851. In 1852, he became
circuit clerk of the county, serving
until 18C5, nnd was therefore one of
the early practitioners of tho Holt
county bar- It 1861, ho with Prince
I- Hudgins and Robert Wilson, of An
drew county, represented this Sena
torial district. The grant conventlen
of 1801, which decided that Missouri
should remain a member of tho Union
of States, which refused to pass the
nrticies or secession. Sir. VanBus.
Kirn uiea August 10, ib'jd.
Mr. Prolid was for years identified
with the commercial interests of the
city, being engaged. In the drug bust
ncss. He served as county treasurer
irom iK'Jt to luiii., no retired rrom
business shortly nrior to his death.
which occurred in this city, August
v, lUtl,
TL. 1... M 1 1 I .tjl.1 1.1
r tcctural designs, and has alwavs been
an attractive business corner in our
city.
, Postmaster Hsrsha availed himself
or Ihanlcsgivtnr da v. being a nostal
holiday, for the purpose of moving'
irom ino oia post oiuce, which was
occuoiea irom mm, to we new ana
handsome Quarters, and from 'which
l .1-11 I l J 1 1 njj
no uciivcrtu nis maiijon rnoay, (De
cember 1, 1816. Thus1 Is added a new
golden page in the history of Oregon,
"the eitv worth Ilvinr in."
The main-room of the new office Is
05x20 feet t rural route denartment.
30x20 fcetj front lobby Is 18x20 feet,
ana we siae, uxiv icet. in n
ITT
News Snapshots
Of the. Week
H.liTW
7Ae DLUTSCflAKP
I rM.-tmip., CMKirsr nm
1 '";".yMlKa:
T'! - r
ALt xAwDt'a. M"RIC1
The rnllriinda cominenrisl Mslit on the t lulit Ifiir law lijr nvklug for rulluut In iiumcrtiua courtA; .liuk-o ! I.H.k In ilntilt imirt
rnl'ol II iiiii-"iillnitlnnnl: effoita were inncV M get supreiiin coiirt derision In-fore .Inn. 1. F,-iiutor .Vcwl.ii.dH henda com
inlllw wlili'h lim slnrteil prolie Into nil rnllr.nl III. i:urpH'n llclillmt wnn tiMM nrlho In I lie Hrtlkani the nllle inplurel
Mipiiillr. Hi'iviu. ulilie Ti'iilntiK fiurnt why fiirtlirr Into Itiiiinintiln; tho dciilli of Emperor KmiicIh Joephnf Aiitrln lijietueiity-
ultii--iiir-uld ClmrleA I'rmicln .ToV-pli Hie throne. Tlio fnlir.il n-ervc IuiiiU refii-rd ii Imek hhort term IhhhI loan to Kimlntid Aiik'tfixlol by It. I'. iMvl-nn ,
llnlh Low ut'ri;il.iiird from (.'liteiiini to New York. The lienli" lil.iml dnslied tor Itome, rninineil her tin;, diownlng flre, rrtiirned Id New London nnd later ff'
vk nu'aln deiiartixl. Iir. Ali'tntnlor II, llhe left In rxi'loic isii'mt Am iron
p
'fit. Joseph, was here, Titewlnv, and
'toade Informal Inspection, nnd gave
nut lil opinion n licinx well pleased
wn mo nrrnr"omeniA nnu iiiuip-
ircnt. nnd as Aoon ns Aome minor
dctalU are completed, will make his
formal acceptance of the odlce. He
grantnl Mr. llnmhn, with the consent
of the department, permission to move
in and take possession of his new
quarters.
The VanUasUrh BlkHag, Where Oregon's New Pest Oflce Is Located.
t ranee to the buUUru4srcm a roomy
corner entrance. ; Arside entrance, on
the northwest side, la provided for the
rural cat-Hum. All the wood work
facing on the main lobby, money order
and registry lobby and on the nost
masters room Is of first quality, kiln
dried, quartered sawed oak, of highly
finished surface, having a fumed
tlnish. A steel screen extends to the
celling, dividing the office into a main
loiiDy; witn money order and registry
window, general deliver)' and stamp
window, glazed with chip obscure
glass, and sash weights, signs and
grills, nnd two doors, stamp cabinet,
with cash drawers, letter and com
bined paper and package drops, with
re lores cam into use that yoor;rii
It was a year previous to the Intro
duction of the postage stamp Into
this country. Letter postage then was
25 rents' and the postmaster on col
lecting the postage would write across
the fare or the envelope, above the
address, "Postage paid 2! cents."
Now the letter postage Is 2 cento.
The mall at that time was carried
from Thorp'a Mill to Savannah by
Judge Russell, himself, who was the
first "Star router," going and return
ing the same day, making one round
trip per week. Hare, Indeed, was
there to lie found more than three to
six letters, and rarely was there ouch
inmir as a newspaper received at
Algns nnd pick-up takle. lackers are, the odW,
in nase oi ncreen. mere aro 21 cal t n-tni...- mtr. n.x,.,.i ...
lioe lfift Hinll Rn milium n.i ii . ,n ""oner, lull,, the llvortural car--lr.K'
Ji.? Tl fS. Jii" . rler alone .lellverel .3C.7P2 pieces.
Thoe"r.ern' I HeTlve'T. .,,'nnlM -1st 2!S.'" P0'- "'! r.M
The general delivery Is supplied with
a 4H-icuer division case, with wire
,ST0 rleecr. wclngh nc 432 Hounds
lO-.VllIT IIIVI1.IUII CRM', Willi WirO,.rt. .HIT......
backs! vertical divisions nre cut out 0K?, 'nfc.V1..1,1 ,,. .
for linger holds. There ia also ' 0't,"?",c.r IKS."' on 'n'ln.A
general delivery naner rasa w-lth ::o f"p cml"l ln llH P "P
BSJ '-nS ?offTeri..5fi0 equipped . '" JTJSL tl o'l hmC'
lth a Victor safe with steel 'chests, f n Alfl nSSS
fiat ton quarter oak .leak, rcuTM?
Z ce' with rite ikS? MS port
UAU lm tcn-baXacitb rwk m.re to Vn,m Zook' ,hcn lhe or''
with drawer 1SS AUmnYng nsl m.rch.nut of tho ,own- withol,t
na I: s U .Utnnlng Ublewl5,PZ MJW Postmaster general or
per, rcimrai ng ruse, icn division CO- ,v.hln lilm..tr vA..' i . .
ror letters, and ten divisions tlilns iii.t ,. v , -ier
Tin. nirnl rrrir.' j. lng as mat now. you enn t even
'l..r"La!r.ier.R ..de' move a liost odlce without n vast
Sw.th'80 scparaKckS Vtfff?
The odlee has aii.Mti.nalv. m,ll..m ? vav .amoiii i 01 wor-
DianK cnuinet with locker; two chairs
rv and Vexation of unlrlt llom.nl u.
an cikhtHloy clock; water cooler mi, KVn all r itH,n?uXer "',Amo
f5'! " V fP' '"bw advertised 1J 1 V&tK!":
letter case, bulletin board; sign, "U.
S, Post Office. Oregon. M
doors.
Tho office Is heated and Ilirlitrd with
a satisfactory system, and there Is a
good toilet system.
Tho basement is nicely shelved for
the storage of records and supplies.
The parcel post equipment Is also
complete, as well as the postal savings
wjuipmeni.
The entire building, unncr and low.
er floors and basement odlce, aro all
heated by the Vacuum Vopor system
hot and cold water and lavatories
on upper and lower floors. Tho post
office Is- lighted with two brascolito
fixtures, of 200 candlo power.
in mo nonn end or this building,
Mr. VanBusklrk has fitted up a hand
some undertaking parlor, 20x25 feet,
which is occupied by Dawson & Petti
John a feature for the cnilng of Mr,
Marsha's "dead letters." ThVroom
has a large plate glass front 6x12
feet, with nrlsm glass overhead. Thn
room is ncccs8lblo.from tho west and !
nonn portions or the building; thus
every available space of this building
Is utilised.
.The exterior of the building has been
newly painted a light gray or slate
In color.
When Judge It. HV Russell .opened
his first pouch of mail Inthe old
Thorp M 11 post office, which wo built
ot hewed logs In 12, 60, 38, in 183,
little did. he dream of tho evolution
that has taken place in postal develop
ment of the country since that time.
noes ne Bssumea we auues, en-
U t The Good Work Go On.
Editors, The Sentinel Gentlemen:
In responso to your request for in
formation regarding the matter of
liehtlnir the business atreeti. uhcra
the lights have been removed during J'ner lor me inuune,
Talk Out of School.
County Clerk Dan II. Kunkrl. wlilL
1 1 ntlcndmico at the onnunl meeting
i mo unmty Ulerka' Association ol
lissuuri. In sesrion at Cane (ilrnr.
trail. Novcmtior 15. 10 nnd IT. of Inst
week, v.ua Interviewed by a reporter
ui me iiany iritnine, oi mat city, ami
.lid homo uoibI boostlni for Orriron.
Following is an nbstiact of the Inter-
Mew:
"The story of a town that needed n
railroad, got next to Itself and bought
one wiucn now is a paying proposi
tfon. lust nlsht was told hv I). II. Kun
Uc, of Oregon, County Clerk of Holt
(.ounty, in an interview with a re
the work of paving, will say that it "The railroad, which now is owned
was the hopo of the City Council be-, by the business men of the town, cost
lore ami at tne time or beginning the.f i2,ooo, it runs eight trains a day
work on these streets towork out a (and In the last year earned a gross re
nlan that would be nraetlcahln forreloU of man than 114.000. Oryx rat.
putting all wiring about the public-Ing expenses amounted to $A00u and
square under ground, with a view to the rest of the earnings are being used
Installing a white way system. to pay Interest on bonds and improve
In pursuance of this Idea, our en- the railroad properties.
Klrieer, Mr. J. II. Islie. was asked. tot lf we haven't sot a railroad. If wo
K fT WL;i,, ?S,.,nw to hack. It frim the railroad into
he did promptly. These plans provM- town.- we'll get a railroad ' -Oman
SLft. iSSffilS' ttf WJHh ff.UrtJd to hit AtobM0"
corcffiesorCTectK than ,1100 and
alio the telephone lines, might bow' ih.t "lU,c ,own,Sf ,non wlth?,ut
ried, through the Imiiness T secUo.i. 'lVlw or, mlll- iu,tl, mf" co,m'
Mr. Leslie advised that this was .not i.u" i?. f?'; , tnuHna; place for
only the proper way, but the only 'me In the midst of a rich North
practical method for handling a white 5Mlf"ourl turl
way system """i fused to stop getting railroad sub-
Thcro were two serious obstacles in ,J,eriPtlon '" total of 42,000 lia.l
the way of adopting these plans, to.,b'1r,u5lcri,irV .
wit: First, tho cost would have been' ' WeJJ call It the Oregon Intemr
very heavy, the conduit system being '""V the leaders said, and it was In
estimated at about eighteen hundred eorporated. The business men
dollars, and the light standards, with In grttln f.10,000 in
globes, at thirty-seven dollars and five per cent bonds placed
fifty cents per set; and second, the the road and the tracks were
abnormal condition of the copper mar- laid. Bridges were built, engines pur
ket, due to the European War, which chased, pnsscnger coaches purchused,
had put practically prohibitive prices Hat car, n box car nnd all the parn
on copper wire, and the fact that phernalla of a railroad on a small
dcnlcr would only accept onlers con- scale were obtained.
dlUonally and for delayed future le- U was n gnln day in Oregon when
..ii . the railroad came to town. Virtually
Much as the under-grotmd system every person In the town felt a sense
was desired, w-o wero compelled to of ownership In that railroad,
adopt what wo feel convinced was thei The people of the county and the
next best thing; henco the new large opposing town In the coilntv seat
foity-foot cedar po es. set In cement, fight, doffed their lints and said: 'If
at regular Intervals along tho curb yon will do that, we're for you. We
L.'i . i furthcr P'n to procure , won't try to tnke anything nwny from
and install n system of quadruple you nny more.'
frosted globe sets of ornamental trol- "The railroad wn built for sen-Ice,
ley polo standards, of which tho set Mr. Kunkrl said. There now nre two
on the Vnnlliisklrk corner Is a sample, enirlnes nnd n nice new coach was
about ten feet above the curbing, on added recently to the lulling stock,
each of these poles along tho north Eight trains pass up and down on the
!.?. ?i tl,c,'i,lU1" ; t least half Burlington, tliren miles awny, and the-
UI1V n inn rr thn nait nml . U. In .
-f.,, "n - " !" v riui-o. viregon imerurnan 'mnKes- everyone
tin... ,?? t I ,lh ii f,"r,hfr at nnf ,,f, u,p trn'i". o that passengers are
ate v
tlon
preshlcnt, whllo our present alfablo
SSSriLSL g nearlgionrand of TO
i"-"v. , an our K00 citizens aro tuitt v nmtu .
1 ii ?'JJl f r ,ho '''"tt covcreil. taken Into Oregon also Immediately
c ZtB'Vn.To ,S "hl ?....w;n: "CP" "rival t the Junction
the large cities aro llghteilexclusrvely . '"The Burlington has been trying
by this system; so we aro not trying to buy us out,' Kunkel said, 'hut our
lighting; no more so than on tho os-
Alliert
general.
The mall at this olllcc was supplied
by the "star route system," from St
Joseph to Savannah, and from Sa
vannah to Oregon, up to ISfiS, when
On behalf of thn rounell. f (..I..
this opportunity to thank all the busi
ness men and others who have, con
tributed toward tho purchase of tho
i nnd citltcns or Ore
.terpriso and co-opcrn-mportant
work under-
nublic Interest.
GEO. It. MUHItAY, Mayor.
thereto Oregon by' "stiV route 7-KTr the!?
stem'nnd until November 82. 1809J tlo In nil he"
when It win .! I... n.. . . in uu ino I
inierurDan Kallway, and the "star
routo system" went out of business.
Oregon become a presidential office
In 1802; became a money older office
In 18C0; rural freo tlelivcry was es
tabllehcl out of Oregon In 1001. and
now hns five routes, coverinir ISO. finn that
miles and serving 467 families. The business In
New Furniture Firm.
Rmll W. JInrtIn Furniture Co., Is
tho style of a new furniture
will open up for
OrAfrnn first
I .2! ,Dvings uank was established no"th of Tho Sentinel office, known as
road is not for ante. We hnvn Inter.
change bcrvire. Our freight Is deliv
ered nt our doors nnd wc arc making
good.'
"Another addition to the motive
power on tho rond was a gasoline
motor which makes special trips.
"Mr. Kunkel snld that his town now
Is spending 152,000 In laying asphal
turn paved streets."
Wo aro glad to announco that Mr.
Kunkel was elected secretary of tho
Association for tho ensuing year, an
honor enmed and deserved, as he was
assistant secretary.
KiVJH ParccI P0-- 'stem waa es-
luuiiaiiru in itfia, 1
General reader, please remember in
looking for a location that embodies
all the essentials of a town worth-Hv-Vt-l,.
thBt ,the cty of Oregon (lilt
theT!ll to perfection, for It has rail-
ruau lacuiues, connecting witn the
ten dally passenger trains on the
P"eat C. n, & Q. system; a modem
high school and grade school building;
a modern court house; a modem poet
office; a fSO.OOO light and wntet y.
tem; paved streeU; six churches; .a
splendid people; no saloons; elegant
hornesj and. a town worth living in.
Flora, special Inspector o
the department, with headquarter 'at
tho P. M, ,2ook building, about the
first of December, or Just as soon as
their stock arrives. They are looking
for one car of furniture, any day now,
and will havo a full stock of un-to.
date furniture for you to select rrom
tor ino unrisimas Bcason. Emu is a
hustler, known to all our citizens, and
says ho is going to make nrices. so
that you will havo' no cause for com
plaint. Stock is all new, and you can
sure find what you want and at the
right prices. See ad elsewhere In this
Issue.
o
M. It. Martin was transacting
business in St. Joseph, for a couple of
days, this week.
T ri IT. "iii I .rtfl.i- ! w .Mf ill ii i i i . ii i I i i. mammmMm , n i iMm Y ) Mm, In. i I
The mnnv friends of D. P. nnhvna.
the Senior of this paper, will bo glad
in ienrn mm no is now uncK at his
Kpst of duty, after being confined to
Is rooms with a severe case of irrlnnn
and the complications incident to this
treacherous disease, for a week.
Daniel Jamison and family, of
Forest City, left Tuesday of this
week, for Denver, Colorado, where
they will make their future htme.
Dsn Is In the emnlov nt Tho Wv.lt
Live Stock Co., in the capacity of
buyer and salesman ln the hog de
partment, having entire charge of
this end of the business, i He-Informs
US that thetv era malclns Ttanwai. .
hog market and since with them, only
isvr mumns, hub aanuiea ana Dsugtit
over 80,000 hogs; in one deal, recent
ly, in Utah, he bought 7.000 in ona
bunch.- The Sentinel joins with their
many friends In wishing them health
am pretpeniy in ueir new come.
Counlv School Nolo.
Since writing the lnt school notes.
the sniierint. ndent has vl ited tho
school of Consolidated District, No.
:i, cieht in nil, our in the line new
school buildini! In l'ortescue. nicside.l
over respectively by Mr. T. I), (itnze,
.Miss Ksth.r Milner, JIIss Ttncy Illcv
Ins nnd Mlm Helen Thatcher. Kacli
teacher feem'iHo be doing very effl-
tenl won;, iinM ttic schools nre noinjr
er)' nicely indeed. In the rural dl
iletA urc fjur schools nh'o Walker.
which lini the dlstlnc'.lon of havini
the largest enrollment of any school
in ute in inn, is inui;hi ny .ir. nenry
Mutikres; Kim (!roe, uhkli has been
pronounced by the county sttperln
t. '"tit as c'ij'ihle to I elng approved,
tnut'M by Mr. I''n-l Wngrtoner; Idle-
i'itr. hip oniy ntr.il etemeniarv
whool In t'ic county built of brick,
tnui'ht by Miss Klsle Crow; nnd Wal
nut (Irovo, the school to which tho
Nnpler children go, tnurcht by MIah
h.lAie rati;, l hese schools niso arc in
llourlhlng condition. If the Idle-
wllilc school had an adequate healing.
plant, it eo'jlil ie put on the approved
1st. Tile finances of the Consolidated
District just at present arc such that
there Is no, money on hand for such
a numosc nt this time. As Sunday
school Is held In this building, I won
der lr the patron ot that orgnnlzi
tlon roiild do sontrthlng toward rnis-
'ng funds for a limner heating nlant.
The superintendent had the pleasure
of attending a meeting of the Parent
TencherA' Association, of Consolidated
District, .No. ;i, or which Association,
she is an honorary nieml'er.
I he roliouliifr week, the schools or
White. Highland. Oak drove and Wil
son wero visited. These schools aro
all doing good work. White school
district should ho congratulated on tho
fact that their teacher, Miss Ncllo
I'russmnn, has taken a full course in
the State Normal school, having re
ceived her life certificate last year,
with tho Idea of working with the
rural children, where wc really need
tho best teachers of the county. Miss
Zella TihhclA is one of last year's
Tcaehcr-Tralnlng class, whllo MIaass
Deglow and Womnck both attended
Normal school last summer, and Irath
show much improvement In their
work.
On Friday, the 24th. the Auperln
tendrnt was called to attend the "Op
ening F.xcrclses" of the splendid new
high school building at Coming. This
makes the fifth occasion of this kind
In a little over a year that It has
been my privilege to attend:
1st. High school building of Con
solidated District, No. 2, at Blgelow,
in October of last year.
2d., High school building of Ore
gon, in January or mis year.
3d. High-school building of Con
solidated District, No. 1, March 24,
1018.
4th. High school building of Con
solidated District, No. 3, September
IHIfl: and now 5th. the rnmlnv Mh
school building, November 24, 1916.
Tho fire. Which realuenl In aaha !,.
old school hour e standing on this site.
"oni iiiurMiay, reuruary 1U. It
lecms to me that the district of Com
ing has done exceedingly well to re
place, in a little over eight months,
the old building with this magnificent
new edifice. Those In authnrltv am
reitulnly to be congratulated on their
einciency; tne members or the school
hoard ami the nrimdnnl. Mr Pm...
white, dcAcrve a great deal of credit.
, sumptuous dinner was served in
the dining room in the bnHcment. ami
after that an interesting program was
-nrricd out. A Parent-Teachers' As
sedation of forty members was or
ganized, with Mr. Schoojcr as presi
dent; Mesdame Wilson. Buck and
Irvin Dankers, vice-presidents; Mr.
Cr.isswhlte, secretary, and Mrs. In
miner, treasurer.
Ittmcmtxr the County Tearoom
Association, at Mound City, December
14-lfi. This meeting Is, of course,
strictly a tcochers' meeting, but all
school patrons and friends from all
over the county are cordially Invited
to attend. Spcclul attention Is called
to the I ustratril !ertur. 'Thnw-I.
liehool In Country 1,1 fc Development,"
by Hey. C. It. (Jreen. of Harmony
."ioniuiiii- urnier. ine uciplicus
riicatrc has been secured for this
number, and for tho accommodation
of school natrons nnd frlnmla tmm n
distance, or from tlio rural schools,
the hour has been placed at three
o clock, Friday afternoon. December
lo. The county sunprlntmilfnt hnn..
that all members of school boards, as
well as other school natrons, tvlll
make on effort and nvnll themselves
oi mis opportunity to henr this lec
ture without nny exnenso In lhn,n.
selves.
1-rlcnds Interested In thn P.ni.
Teacher Association movement will be
ineaseii to icam that wo aro to havo
.Irs. Walter II. Jobe. or
state president of this organisation,
to nddrcss us at this meeting. "Mrs.
Jobo Is a very pleasing, fluent speak
er, uie superintendent has heard her
at tho County Superintendents' Con
vention anil nt tho State Teachers'
Association. Itomemher tile ilnla tnm
this nddrcss, Thursday afternoon, 'De
cember 14, at 3:15.
ALUEKTA GKEEN-MunPITV,
County Superintendent.
A $il,000 Heal Estate Deal.
C. D. (Don) Wellcr, the hustling
rial estate man. of Maltland, was in
town, Tuesday of this week, and re.
ports a big real estate deal that ha
puued on, last week, totalling 141,000.
He SOld 834 aerea. Ave. mllea nnrll....
of Maltland. in Nodawav eountv.
known as the Peter Forcade farm, id
Jame; and John Ungles, of this coun
ty. A big transaction, but then, Don
is noted for making top-not:h, deals..
1
Mrs. J. M. Uanrlno. left thl..k : J
foe w.1, sra:- rT;.TtT:: m
in lands in the Kio Grande section.
tv - ' a 1 1
