BARME AILY TIMES
11
PRICE, ONE CENT.
RARRE. VERMONT, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1910.
IE
VOL. XX NO. 220.
GERMAN LABOR
WAS OUTVOTED
First Clause of New Home
Army Bill Passed
Unamended
WHEN IT CAME UP
IN THE REICHSTAG
Chancellor Made a Notable
Speech in Introducing
Man-Power Bill
London, Doc. 1. The first clause of the
German home army bill passed a second
reading in the Reichstag unamended, ac
cording to a Berlin dispatch to Router's.
Socialist and Labor members voted in
the negative.
Berlin, Dec. 1. In an address to the
Reichstag yesterday in introducing the
man power bill Chancellor von Beth-mann-Hollweg
again announced that Ger
many was ready to end the war by a
peace guaranteeing the existence and fu
ture of the nation.
In presenting the bill the chancellor
made an address in regard to the mili
tary situation and the purposes of the
bill. It was the chancellor's 60th birth
day and his desk was decorated with
chrysanthemums.
"The war continues, with its destruc
tive forces," the chancellor said. "Ac
cordingly, our enemies desire it. They
celebrated the past summer as a period
of victory. Hut did they obtain what
they wanted."
"Our lines are unbroken and Rumania,
through which a great change of events
was expected, is now atoning for what
she did. God lias helped us up to the
present. He will help us further.
"The almost superhuman heroism of
our troops, which cannot be expressed
in words of thanks, and our clear
conscience since we, the first and only
ones, were ready and are ready to end
the war by a peace guaranteeing our ex
intern and our future they givo us mor
al right to such confidence.
"But,", gentlemen, this right ought not
to make us forget duty. Our enemies do
not yet desire peace. They have supe
rior numbers at their command and al
most the whole world delivers war mate
rial to them."
The chancellor urged the necessity to
do everything in Germany's power in or
der to manufacture the necessary war
material, saying:
'.'Hands that are idle assist the ene
my." ,
The bill, he continued, had been dis
cussed with the interested trades and in
the Reichstag main committee and was
in harmony with the patriotic spirit
shown by the whole nation since the
beginning of the war.
"On behalf of the confederate govern
ments," the chancellor continued, "I ask
you to assist in the work which will
bring us new strength and guide us to
ward victory and peace."
BRITISH VICTORIES
IN EAST AFRICA
At One Place 200 Germans Were Killed
and 82 Made Prisoners and at An
other 500 Were Captured.
London, Dec. 1. The war office reports
that a conspicuous success was gained by
the British in their campaign against the
Germans in East Africa. The enemy loss
is estimated at 200 killed and 82 pris
oners on the Ruhudje river and 500 pris
oners at Illembule mission station.
TO DEPORT BELGIAN WOMEN.
Germany Will Take Those Having Sew
ing Machines.
London, Dec. 1. A Reuter despatch
from Amsterdam contains the report
from Faquemont that male Belgians of
Hasselt and Lanaye, between the ages of
17 and 50, and women and girls possess
ing sewing machines, will be deported
to Germany.
86 PEOPLE KILLED
During Hunting Season in i$ States
Michigan Leads.
Chicago. Dec. 1. Eighty-six persuns
were killed and 41 injured during the
hunting season which closed yesterday in
J 3 states. The figures were compiled Dy
the Chicago Tribune, which compares
them with 50 dead and 68 injured for last
year and 111 dead and 162 wounded for
1014.
Carelessness on the part of the hunters
Recounted for many of the accidents.
Many of the victims were mistaken for
deer." Michigan loads in the number of
di ad with 22, Illinois is second with 13,
and Minnesota third with 12. New York
had 11 fatal accidents.
KILLED ON FIRST FLIGHT.
Paul Rhorer of Berne, Ind Fell ioo Feet
with Airplane.
Berne. Ind., Dec. 1. While making his
first flight in an airplane which he spent
more than a year in building, Paul Rhor
er. aced It, "son of Fred Rhorer, editor
of the Berne Witness, was killed here
yesterday afternoon. After he had at
tained a height of about 100 feet, Rhorer
lost control of the machine and it crashed
to the ground, killing the aviator.
TWO HUNTING FATALITIES
Occurred in Attleboro, Mass, Thanks
giving Day.
Attleboro. Mass., Per. I. Two persons
vere killed here yesterday in hunting ac
cidents. Violet "jewett, aged 10 years,
was fatally wounded, when a shotgun
accidentally exploded in the hands of her
H-viar-olJ cousin. IJeorge Brmsk, 17
j-e-n'rs old, was shot while bunting rab
bits. No arrets weie made in either
RUSSIANS CLAIM
SUCCESS IN MOLDAVIA
The Teutonic grip on Rumania is
tightening with three forces con
verging, unchecked, toward Bucha
rest. Despite the tenacious Ruma
nian lesistance, the invader under
Mackensen and Falkenhayn are
now almost within gunshot of the
capital.
Kussians are attacking heavily
along the frontier of Moldavia in
an attempted diversion in the Ru
manians' favor. Petrograd reports
pronounced success for this offen
sive. Berlin claims it a waste of
blood and ammunition.
Greece to day is ut its greatest
crisis. The entente demand for
possession of arms and ammuni
tion has expired. KinR Constan
tine is reported to have refused
com plianee. Admiral DuFouriiet
had indicated that he will take
radical measures to enforce the ul
timatum. CARRANZA GARRISON
FLED IN DISORDER
Brought Many Wounded Men to Juarei
and Told of Great Piles of Bodies
Being Burned in Chihuahua
City.
Juarez. Mex., Dec. 1. The remnants
of a Carranza army that fled from Chi
huahua City after a battle, with Villa
troops are in camp on the pluins south
of Juarez. They brought with them the
story of the evacuation of the city after
four days and nights of fighting. The
dead were piled high in the streets when
they left, and had' been covered with oil
and" burned, they said.
Soon after 1 a. m. yesterday the nrsi
troop train brought the ragged survivors
of the de facto forces wlneli nail escaped
to the north. Accompanying this train
was a sanitary section consisting of three
second- class coaches ana one uue
Cross" hospital car. In these cars were
more than 100 wounded soldiers oi tne
Carranza- command. The hospitals here
are tilled and volunteer nurses are work
ing to care for the officers and men
wounded in battle.
The troop trains that brought this sur
viving force to the border left Chihua
hua City at 10:30 Monday morning, pro
ceeding to a point near Terrazas station,
where a burned bridge torced tlieiu to
transfer to another train Wednesday.
The troops brought back many of their
Held nieces. These are packed in the
customs house yards with garlands of
"jerked beef" hanging from their muz
zles. Women camp followers shared in
the retreat. Some of them had children,
said to have been born on the battle
field.
Refugees said that between the ceme
tery and Santa Kosa hill the dead cov
ered the streets, many having died days
before. Along the streets near the rail
road station and surrounding the sta
tion one refugee said he saw many cav
alry horses with carbines and sabres at
tached to the saddles, ine tarranza
cavalrymen having abandoned them in
order to leave the city on the troop train,
they were left without an owner. Along
Zarco avenue the fighting had been fierc
est and many civilians had been killed-
there and in other parts of the city Dy
shell fire and rifle balls,
All of the refugees agreed that Car
ranza troops were winning during the
first four days of fighting, but either be
cause of a shortage of ammunition or
lack of morale, they abandoned the city
early on the fifth morning of the bat-
tic, seeKing saieiy in niguv m u unc
tions. The taking of Santa Rosa hill,
which always has been known as the
"key to Chihuahua," was said by one of
the foreiern refucees to have started the
retirement of the Carranza forces, which,
he said, resembled a rout before the last
train left. The cavalry artillery ana
infantry poured down the streets lead
ing to the station which is north of the
city proper and climbed aboard the train
in a wild scramble to get. away.
One civilian refugee claimed that Gen
eral Gonzales Cuellar was responsible for
the taking of Santa Roi hill, where he
was in command, as he allowed the in
fantry line to be weakened. When the
artillery was turned on the city the ref
ugee added, the moral effect was almost
immediately noticeable and the Carranza
soldiers who had been anxious for bat
tle Saturday night, dropped their rifles
and fled.
It is believed by the refugees and Car
ranza officers that General Trevino left
first for Tabaloapa, south of the city,
and from there moved to Aldama, about
20 miles from Chihuahua City. Anoth
er report said the Carranza commander
was at Hacinda Dolores, west of the city.
One Mexican civilian refugee declared
vesterdar he had seen Villa in the city
Monday morning before the train left.
He said Villa was walking without the
aid of crutches a if to inspire his men
with his fortitude. His moustache was
shaved off and he looked much thinner
than of old.
Nothing was known of the Americans
by the refugees. In Chihuahua City, one
foreign refugee said, Oorge Britting
ham an American, was seen at the sta
tion, but he did not get away on the
last train. All the refugees agree that
there had been no killing of foreigners
up to the time they left.
Joseph Ynez Salazar's command was
reported to have been sent south to stop
the advance of General Mayeotte'a cav
alry column and took no part in the
capture of the city.
TOOK BL00D FROM CHAUFFEUR.
So John D. Archbold Showed Improve
ment This Morning.
Tarrytown, X. Y, Dec. I. John D.
Archbold, president of the Standard Oil
company, passed a comfortable night.
His condition, due to an appendicitis
operation last we-k, is believed will be
improved as a result of blood transfusion
from hia chauffeur.
STEAMER IS DRIFTING.
The liacoochee is Having Engine Trouble
Off Shoal.
Chatham, Mass., Dec. I. Tbe steamer
Naeooche. with passenger and freight
is drifting off Car Cod with engine trou
ble beyond the shoals. No call for help
has been issued and it is believed the
will be able to proceed later.
FOUR RULERS
AT FUNERAL
Pay Respects to the Late
Francis Joseph of
Austria
SERVICES SIMPLE
AND VERY BRIEF
Body Was Placed in the
Capuchin Crypt on
Thursday
Vienna, Thursday, via London, Friday,
pPC. l The body of the late Emperor
Francis Joseph was buried this afternoon
in the Capuchin crypt. The services, in
the presence of Emperor Charles, the
young crown prince, the kings of Bul
garia, Bavaria and Saxony and special
envoys of neutral governments, were ex
tremely simple and lasted only 12 min
utes. The body whs conveyed to the
cathedral through streets lined with
enormous crowds.
London, Dec. 1. The funeral proces
sion of the late Kmperor Francis Joseph,
savs a Vienna dispatch received by way
of Berne, left at 2 o'clock yesterday aft
ernoon the Hofburg chapel, where the
body had lain in state since Monday,
and' traversed the street of Vienna by a
ii in m i t mm Ji Ml 1 1 Saint Stephen's cath
edral. The hearse was drawn by eight
horses and surrounded ny an imperial
body miard. lackeys and pages bearing
torches and crucifixes.
The route was lined with troops, m
fanfrv an,! cavalrv and tens of thousands
of spectators crowded the pavements and
the roofs and windows oi nouses, mir
ing the progress of the cortege Emperor
Charles drove direct to the cathedral,
uIi.ta l.p waited with the empress, the
kings of Bulgaria, Bavaria. Saxony and
Wurttemberg ami nearly a numirea inn
er members of the imperial family and
other royal houses.
Cardinal Pilfl. archbishop of Vienna.
r,m,.;Mti1 nit'i1 liv four cardinals, ten
bishops and 4 priests. At the conclu
sion of the funeral services Kmperor
Charles walked behind the coftin to the
Capuchin church. This is a small edi
fice and only a few of the prmiegea
!! tn'tntpr. the remainder stand
ing outside during the final ceremony of
bearing the coffin to tne crypt, i ne eni
nprnr th frnnil master of the court and
two chamberlains followed into the crypt
and formally transferred the body to the
.fwtv nf th f'anuchin monks and the
golden key of the coffin to the senior
monk.
4. fmncror Charles reascended to the
church the boom of artillery in salute
sounded in the distance.
AMERICAN FLEET
MORE EFFICIENT
Has Improved Greatly in Battle Efficien
cy in Recent Years arid Gunnery
Practice Last Fall Showed 20
Per Cent Improvement.
Washington, Ti. C, Dec. 1. Captain
Charles P. Plunkett. director of gunnery
exercises, told the House committee to
day that the American navy has im
proved in battle -efficiency greatly in re-
rent years. The Atlantic fleet bettered
the target practice by mi per cent lasi
fall.
The navy is preparing to work guns in
the new ships at 30.000 yards, although.
16,000 was considered the maximum bat
tle range before the war. Kite balloons
are to be carried by the battleships to
spot fire at 15 miles.
HELD AS SUSPECT.
Following Two Suspicious Fires in
Shrewsbury.
Rutland, Dec. 1. Following two sus
last of which destroyed
t linn .a a Via rn and two other buildines
on the John Moloney farm in Shrews
bury, George Rogers, an employe of air.
Moloney, was arrested last night by Dep
uty Sheriff Henry R. Adams, brought to
this city and placed in tne county ju i-j
await hearing.
About 6 o clock yesterday morning ine
barn, which is attached to the farmhouse,
was discovered afire. About three months
ago a big stack of hay on the farm was
burned.
SUSPECTED CASE NOT FOUND.
Girl Died of Ruptured Appendix and Not
from Illegal Operation.
Rutland, Dec. 1. Dr. B. H. Stone of
Burlington performed an autopsy here
last night at the request of State's At
torney C. V. Poulin on the body of Miss
Anna Sears, the 16-year-old daughter of
Oliver E. Sears of Xorth Ferrisburg, who
died here at midnight Wednesday un
der circumstances which led the authdVi
ties to suspect there had been an illegal
operation. The post mortem showed
death to be due to a ruptured appendix.
WATSON ACQUITTED.
Was Accused of Sending Obscene Matter
Through Mails.
Augusta. Ga., Doc. 1. Thomas E. Wat
son was acquitted to-day by the federal
jury of sending oleene matter through
the mails.
To Meet with Cobble Hill Grange.
Central Vermont Pomona grange will
meet with Cobble Hill grange Thurs
day, Dec. 7. opening in form at 10 a. m.
Since only fifth degree members can vote,
all wishing to assist in election of offi
cers should take the obligation at this
time. There will be report of officers
and financial committee and other neces
sary business, followed by dinner and a
social hour. The election of officers will
take place at the afternoon session, with
a literary program if the time will per
mit. There will be no public session.
Mrs. A. B. Washburn, lecturer.
V
William E. Ducharme Died Last Evening
Funeral Saturday.
The death of William K. Ducharme oc
curred at his home in (he Miles building
Thursday forenoon at 0:15 o'clock, the
end following on illness of tuberculosis.
Mr. Ducharme was taken ill in August,
1013 and at that time the i.attire of his
u miction "led him to abandon the stone
cutter's trade. He leaves his wife, who
was Miss Grace Lepage, to whom he was
married in Montpelier May 1, 1H94, and
two children, Miss Alfaretta Merle Du
charme, who is employed by the F. D.
Lad J Co., and Leon C. Ducharme, who is
in the employe of the l,ane Manufactur
ing Co. in Montpelier. His father, a
nonegenarian, livesin Rouses I'oint, X.
Y., where his sister, Mrs. Ida Blair, also
resides, and there are five brothers, An
drew, John, Levi, Joeph and Duff, all
but the first-named living in northern
New York. Andrew Ducharme resides
in Randolph.
Mr. Ducharme was born in Chazy, X.
Y., in March, 1874. He came to Barre in
June, 1891, and was for several years
employed in the granite shed of the Gerard-Barclay
Co. He was a charter mem
ber of the' lumpers' and boxers' union in
Barre. He belonged to the Congrega
tional church. For three months Mr.
Ducharme was a patient at l'ittsford.
Prayer service will be held at the
homo Saturday afternoon at 12:30
o'clock and at I o'clock the funeral will
be held in the Congregational church,
Rev. J. W. Barnett, officiating. Inter
ment will bn made in the family lot at
Hope cemetery.
MRS. GEORGE A. REED'S. DEATH.
Former Barre Woman Passed Away in
Montpelier Thursday.
Xellie Colburn Reed, wife of George
A. Reed, passed away at Montpelier at
10:30 yesterday morning. Nov. 30, after
being "ill with "tuberculosis for about a
vear. She leaves tier nusnanu ami i
shcfHon mid Far. aired six and
three respectively, also her mother, Mrs.
Fannie 1. Colburn. wno resided wun nn.
Mrs. Reed was born at tasnovia, Mien.,
.Tun 14 -18(15. and was the only daughter
of Andrew K. and Fannie. I. Colburn. Shi
un in Plattshiirir. X. V. when a child
and graduated from the Plattsburg high
school in the class ol nx'i ana irom m
lbanv Business college the following
J ... . t -. i mi.)
spring. She came to narre in j.-"-,
where she was employed as a Bibliog
rapher in several offices.
On April 18. l!Ktfl, she married Mr.
Reed, after which they went west, wtiere
Mr. Keed was employed by the I nited
States government, on an irrigation pro
ject in Klamath rails, ure. in u iney
I in Rarre. where they resided at
their home' on Orange street until 1915,
w hen they went to Montpelier, wnere .ur.
Reed has" been the city engineer.
fr Ri.crl was a member of Bright
Star Rebekah lodge at Barre and was
also a member of the Barre Congrega-
tional church, mere is a targe orcie m
friends and relatives here who mourn her
loss.
There will be a short service at the
house, 172 Main street, Montpelier, at
12:30 p. m. Saturday, and the funeral
will be at the Barre Congregational
church at 2:30 p. m. Burial will be at
Elm wood cemetery.
DEATH OF THOMAS HOUGHTON.'
Aged Man Died in Upper Graniteville
Thursday Morning.
Thomas Tfouediton. a well known resi
dent of Barre Town, passed away at his
fTM. ..
home in upper uranueviue mursu.
morning at 9:45 o'clock. Eight years ago
he suffered a shock and had been confined
to his bed continuously. He is survived
by his wife, five sons, Joseph and Steph
en Houghton of Graniteville, Michael
Houghton of Butte, Mont., Charles
Houghton of Sunset, Idaho, and Thomas
Houghton of Laretto, Pa., and by three
daughters, Mrs. Mary Coyle of Hartford,
Conn., Miss Annft Houghton and Mrs.
Frank McGuire of Graniteville. He also
leaves three sisters and three brothers
as follows: Misses Kat and Mary
Houghton of Manchester, X. H., and Mar
garet, Sister Monica, f Portland, Me.,
Patrick Houghton of Twin Mountains,
X. H., Michael Houghton of Thetford
Hines, P. Q., and James Houghton of
Manchester, X. H.
Tho deceased was bom in St. Syl
vester, P. Q., March 20, 1838, and had
resided in Graniteville for the past
twenty-five years. He was a quarryman
by trade. In eight years of illness, in a
period when he wis scarcely able to
move and deprived of his speech, Mr.
Houghton was a patient sufferer.
Funeral services will be held in St.
Sylvester's church at Graniteville Satur
day morning at 9 o'clock. Rev. Joseph
Turcot, the parish priest, will officiate
and interment will be made in the Cath
olic cemetery on Berkley street. It is
requested that flowers be omitted.
BURTON B. GALE.
Montpelier Man Was Formerly in the
Granite Business.
Burton Bontwell Gal died at his home,
5 Edward street, in Montpelier yester
day, after a long illness. He was a
native of Plainfield, where he was born
Sept. 2. 18", the son of Sullivan B.
Gale, and Laura W. (Bailey) Gale. He
came to Montpelier 30 years ago and was
employed for a time as a granite cntter.
For some years he owned a granite shed
near the Central Vermont station, but
disposed of the property eight years ago.
Cntil he was stricken with illness a year
and a half ago, he managed granite
manufacturing plants in Barre and
Montpelier for D. K. Lillie.
Mr. Gale was ir.irried March 24. 1SS8.
to Miss Julia C. Wheat of Plainfield.
Four children survive, as follows: Pliny
X. Gale. Kenneth B. Gale and Julian Gale
of Montpelier, and Allan Gale of Barre.
Two children died. Adeline in 1912. and
Ellin in 1908. Surviving also are three
sisters, Mrs. E. C. Spencer of Barre. Mrs.
George Ddge of Berlin and Mrs. M. L.
Sherburne of Montpelier; and a brother.
Charles B. Gale of Montpelier. The de
ceased was a member of the Xew Eng
land Ih-der of Protection and the Junior
Order of American Mechanic.
Funeral services will be held at the
house Saturday aftcrmwn at 3 o'clock.
F.rv. Stanley F. Blomfield, patr of
lUthanv church, officiating. Burial will
lw in Green Mount cemetery. Pleas
uinit flow'cxs.
GERMANY WILL
TAKE BLAME
Because Submarine Com
mander Sunk the Marina
for a Transport
WILL MAKE AMENDS
FOR AMERICANS LOST
If the Marina, a Horse Ship,
Was Entitled to
Immunity
Washington, D. C, Dec. 1. The Ger
man submarine commander, who sunk
the British horse ship Marina, with the
loss of six Americans, has reported he
mistook the vessel for a transport. Ger
many has asked the United States for
the status of the ship and is ready to
offer amends if the Marina was entitled
to immunity.
The case was discussed at a conference
between Ambassador Von Bernstorff and
Secretary of State Lansing, which was
asked by the ambassador. It developed
that neither side was informed sufficient
ly to determine the matter.
HAD REAL MERRY-MAKING.
Meadow Brook Golf Club the Host at
Thanksgiving Eve Celebration.
A gala eve-of-Thanksgiving.celebration
in Clan Oirdon hall was held by the
Meadow Brook Golf club to mark the
official close of the most successful season
in the 10 years of the club's existence.
Against a background of many lights,
colorful festoons and a wealth of cut
flowers, more than 200 people, including
nearly every member of the club and a
large quota of guests, dined, listened to
speechmaking and the presentation of
the 1910 trophies, and then finished an
evening of wholesome merrymaking in
dancing. By all odds it was the most
enthusiastic annual gathering since the
club was organized. There were present
as fraternal guests, members of the Barre
(Jolf club and the recently organized
Hardwick Golf club. Brtice's orchestra
gave several overtures during the even
ing and played afterward for the danc
ing. Long tables arranged in the center and
along the sides of the hall were gaily
decorated with huge bouquets of flowers.
Overhead there were colored incandes
cent that mingled harmoniously witti
the arrangement of flRgs and club colors.
Through the efforts of William Pirie and
Alex Mitter, the club saw the realization
of the most artistic decoration scheme
ever attempted at the yearly banquets.
The orchestra loft was done over into a
gallery in miniature, flanked by fluted
columns and brightly illuminated. Across
the top of the portico the words, "Mead
ow Brook Golf Club," were illumined in
rustic letters, Mrs. William D. Stephen
catered and she was assisted by a num
ber of other women, to whom much cred
it is due for the satisfactory manner in
which thev carried out their part of the
plans. The banquet began at 8 o'clock,
after the club president, Arthur Pirie,
had rapped for order and introduced
George Brand as the chairman of the
evening. The service was excellent and
through the medium of a menu surfeited
with good things the Meadow Brookers
gave abundant evidence of their tine hos
pitality. At the after-dinner exercises, the club
president. A. W. Pirie, responded to the
first toast. On the tenth anniversary of
the Meadow Brook organization, the
president gave a tabloid history of the
development of golf in America and then
told of the origin of the local club. Ten
years ago, he said, a handful of faithful
golfers organized and to-day they have
the satisfaction of knowing that the club
has a flourishing membership of nearly
70 with bright prospects for the future.
In the HUfi state tourney, the club was
represented by a golfer who tested the
mettle of several of the liest club wield
ers in Vermont and fell only when he wa
pitted against the champion himself. Mr.
Pirie was warmly applauded for his time
lv words.
" In the next interval, the announcement
of the HUB awards was made and each
recipient was asked for a brief speech as
he or she came forward for a cup, golf
clubs, carving set, shield, medal, or what
ever the trophy chanced to be. It was
generally agreed that the club had pro
vided generously for the prize winners.
The awards were made as follows: An
nual championship, James Freeland; an
nual championship, runner-up. A. W.
Freeland: ladies' competition. Mrs. Alex
ander Cowie; ladies' competition, runner-up.
Mrs. A. W. Freeland; Marrion
trophy, Joseph Fraser; president's prize,
James B. Stewart; president's prize, runner-up,
John Black; consolation cup, D.
F. McLeod; consolation, runner-up,
Charles Bissett; second eight, Adam Bir
nie; second eightmnner-up, John Mer
cer; consolation cup, second eight, D. Mc
Donald. Remarks for the Barre Golf club were
made bv Duncan McMillan and the toast
to the ladies waa given by Peter Brown.
The program was pleasantly interspered
by vocal numbers and among those who
contributed solos and were loudly ac
claimed for their efforts were: Harry
Clark, the Scotch comedian, James Bet
ter. Mr. Alexander McHaffie. Mrs. A. W.
Freeland and George Fraser. Leslie Mer
cer, who won hia spurs as a Highland
dancer in the Caledonia games in Boston
last summer and again at the Clan Gor
don games, entertained with a varied
program of flings. Joseph Fraser. holder
of the Marrion trophy, was also the re
cipient of a handsome bouquet from his
brother. Peter Fraser of Fort Worth,
Tex., the presentation being made with
the awards. John Mercer sang 'Wood
man. Spare That Tre!" and Alex Brew
contributed a aolo, "The Amateur Golf
er's Dream." A distinctive flavor was
added to the program when a sketch en
titled. "The Horrors of Camp at Mid-
! night." was presented by William Tine,
j accompanied by Alex Miller on the naal
organ.
The merrymaking had gone into the
later reaches of the evening before the
THE FINER CAUSES
FOR THANKSGIVING
Were Enumerated By Rev. -J. B. Reardon
at Union Service Held at Congrega
tional Chorch Wednesday
Evening.
The union Thanksgiving services were
held Wednesday evening at the Congrega
tional church with five ministers on the
platform representing as many denom
inations. Dr. J. W. Burnett of the Con
gregationul church was in charge of the
meeting. The service was opened with
music and continued with the reading of
the governor's Thanksgiving proclama
tion by Rev. Edgar Crossland of the
Presbyterian church. Rev. B. G. Lipsky
of the Hedding M. E. church followed
with scripture reading and Rev. Bert J.
Lehigh, pastor of the Baptist church, of
fered prayer. The offering taken was
given to the City hospital. After the of
fering was received a mixed choir sang
an old anthem, which was followed with
a timely sermon by Rev. J. B. Reardon of
the Uiiiversalist society. The services
were closed by Dr. Barnett giving the
benediction.
The text of the preacher's sermon was
tuken from the fifth chapter of St. Paul's
epistle to the Ephesians, verses 18-20,
which reads as follows: "Be filled with
the spirit; singing and making melody
in your heart to the Lord ; giving thanks
always for all things to God, even the
Father."
At the outset Rev. Mr. Reardon re
minded his hearers that for nearly 200
years the observance of Thanksgiving,
having its origin with the Pilgrims in
1621, was confined to Xew England, albeit
as the sons of Xew England moved south
ward and westward their desire to per
petuate the holiday prompted them to
make the observance nation-wide.
Thanksgiving, to be sustained, said the
pastor, needs to be intelligent. There
must be something deeper than sentiment
about it.
In spite of the unprecedented world
sorrow at this moment, we need such a
day, he continued, to help us escape from
the denial of a supernatural interposition
in the affairs of men. The great prose
writers and poets have not thought that
God was banished or that He voluntarily
withdrew from His works, but it is a
mystery full of sadness that men to-day
retain God in their creed but depose Him
from the throne of their lives. They
wotil d be shocked to be told that they
are atheists or deists, hut they daily live
atheietically or deistically. It is the
tendency of the world to regard its tern
poral needs as more important than its
spiritual. And yet we go back to the
birth-time of Thanksgiving and see that
our fathers, whose lives were poorer in
comforts than ours, had a feeling sur
passing ours that they owed all they had
to God.
The preacher regretted the present-day
tendency that weakens faith and said
that in the midst of th world strife men
who are war-mad seem to have forgotten
the teachings of Christ. He spoke of the
old Jewish festival of the first fruits and
of the spontaneous sentiment responsible
for the festival. If the same feeling does
not fill our souls to-day, he went on, we
ought to restore its brightness by an act
of the imagination, which will carry us
back to the care and love by which we
are ever blessed. We need to summon
ourselves back from things, mechanisms,
forces, tendencies, customs and habits
which are leading us away from the high
er life, and substitute for them those
things which will lead us to the Infinite
Spirit, who. if we are sufficiently "pure
in heart and sound in head" to know it,
is constantly giving us a fresh revelation
of His being, disclosing sources of grati
tude which should blend heart and mind
in one.
Ixt us encourage in ourselves the sen
sibilities of life, the pastor continued.
No man is born quite without the power
of receiving impressions from nature and
from human nature, although there are
many who hnve brought death by neglect
upon" their native power. Ixt us be
thankful during this glad thanksgiving
season not alone for our country, our
liberties, our churches, schools, homes
and all material blessings, but let ns be
thankful for the faculty of memory, for
imagination, for the sense of humor, for
reason, that union of all the faculties,
and for the wondrous sentiment of .love.
A man's work should be made a thing of
religion, for a true religion must always
result in service. We may meet and
speak with God in prayer, we may find
our Master in the service of holy com
munion, but nowhere, I think, shall we
come into the very presence of God and
into such perfect communion with the
Master as in honest toil for the good of
men.
In support of this thought so finely ex
pressed in Henry Van Dyke's poem. "The
Toiling of Felix," the preacher quoted lib
erally from some of the more beautiful
passages of the poem. In closing, he said.
"It is because of these gifts, which
ennoble our earthly years and transcend
them, claim us for all that is high and
divine and make it. not a duty, but a
privilege and a joy to sing and make
melody in our hearts to the Lord, to give
thanks always for all things to God."
LOST LIFE IN FIRE.
Woman 111 in New Bedford Convent Res
cued Too Late.
Xew Redford, Mass., Dec. 1. Sister
Sherertbin lost her life and several others
were overcome in a tire which did quite
a lot of damage to the Convent of the
Sacred Heart here in this city yesterday.
The fire, which is thought to be of in
cendiary origin, caused considerable ex
citement. Sister Sherertbin was ill in
bed and was not thought of until the rest
had escaped from the building. When
her absence was noticed, a neighbor
rushed into the blszing building and
came out carrying the unconscious form
in his arms. She lived only a few min
utes after being taken from the building.
The police are looking for a man who
had been to the convent earlier in the
day for food and upon being refused by
a servant went away in an angry mood.
hall was cleared for dancing. James
Freeland and Joseph Fraser acted capably
as floor managers and this mot popular
of indoor pastimes continued until the
hours of early morning.
The committee in charge of the big
1916 celebration had the following per
onnel: George Brands, chairman; Arthur
Pirie, Joaeph Fraser. (Jeorge Frer,
Harry Livendale. Robert T. Phillips
Alexander Keon. Alexander t'owie,
limes Freeland and D. F. McLeod,
NEARLY HALF
INACCURATE
Weights and Measures Used
in Vermp Vary
Gr'.
COM. CARPEN s
SAYS IN- " PORT
Purchasing Public is Not
Always Cheated,
However i
The biennial report of the state depart
ment of weights and measures, the first
report to make its appearance, ha la-en
issued and contains some interesting data.
and recommendations.
Commissioner George E. Carpenter,
who 'succeeded Hugh H. Henry June 1,
1915, had but two inspectors working for
the department and he gives briefly the
field work of the administrator. He say
that even with one less inspector the de
partment accomplished more actual work
than the year previous and the state was
covered more, completely.
Among all records, continues the re
port, short weight in butter occurs too
frequently. The moulds in use in many
creameries are too small and if a uniform
method of using proper moulds can be
obtained mould shortages will occur less
often. A condensation of daily reports
develops the fact that out of 1,075 pur
chases of butter which the public might
make at various stores in the state, 300
of these purchases would not be up to
standard in weight, and 304 of them
would be overweight; that out of 2S4
like purchases of grain, the public would
receive full weight in 87 instances, and
would receive overweight in 15 instances.
The conclusion reached in this instance
is surprising: 45 per cent of miscellane
ous commodities, grain and butter, were
inaccurate in weight.
The report includes a table which
shows the number of places visited, tests
made and expenses and while the num
ber of places visited has increased from
3.50(li n 1914-1915 with four inspectors,
to 5.556 in 1IH5-191B with three inspec
tors, an increase of 50 per cent, the cost
per visit has decreased from $2.96 to
$1.52, a decrease of 49 per cent.
The commission reports that additional
office room is needed and states that the
department is not receiving sufficient co
operation from the public to make the
results as far reaching as they should be.
The commissioner recommends a
change in Xo. 101' of the acts of 1910, as
amended by acts of 1912 and 1915, so
that tbe commissioner may appoint in
spectors who shall be paid not to exceed
$1,000 per year, and the salary of each
to be determined by the commissioner.
The commission also urges the passage
of the following law:
An act relating to net contents of cer
tain packages.
Section 1. Xo person shall sell, keep
or offer for sale, within the state, any
article-of food in package form unless
the net quantity of the contents shall be
plainly, conspicuously and correctly
marked on the outside of the package in
terms of weight, measure or numerical
count.
.A penalty of $500 is provided for vio
lation, but it is so worded that no pen
alty shall be enforced arising from the
sale of food prepared prior to one year
after the passage of the law.
5,000,000 RESERVE POWER
To Be Contracted for By Central Cor
poration of Vermont.
Charles H. Thompson, general manager
of the Central Power Corporation of Ver
mont, which is applying for right to en
ter Barre, issued the following statement
to-day:
"We are authorized by Charles T. Mid
dlebrook, consulting engineer for Mr.
Wnrrcn Curtis, ir.. of the Ontario Paper
company, limited, to announce that the
Central" Power Corporation of Vermont
has arranged tor the purcliase ot nve
million K. W. H. per annum to be used
as a reserve power for the development
of Barre and Montpelier. This power
will be developed on the Green river and
construction of the plant is expected to
commence at once provided the price of
certain portions of the raw materials do
not prove to tie prohibitive.
"This development is entirely for the
nni-noA of wholesale sale of electrical
energy through the Central Power Cor
poration of Vermont as the distributor.
The water power to be developed is one
of the best of its size now undeveloped in
New England, the tail avauaoie on mo
river being approximately 455 feet."
WILLEY TAYLOR.
Marriage in Barre Thanksgiving Eve of
Parties Who Will Live in Marshfield.
At the L'niversalist parsonage Thanks
giving eve, Mrs. Annie L. Taylor of 449
Xorth Main street and Jesse G. Willey of
379 Xorth Main street were married by
Rev. J. B. Reardon. The couple were un
attended. After passing Thanksgiving
in Barre, Mr. and Mrs. Willey left this
morning for Marshfield. where Mrs. Wil
ley recently purchased the Tanner farm,
located on'the Cabot road. Mr. Willey
has been employed in this city as a
granitecutter.
WATSON THOMPSON.
Marriage Took Place at the Episcopal
Rectory.
At the Episcopal rectory on Tremont
street. Miss Augusta Thompson of this
.nif .lubn Watson, son of lavid
j Watson of the Last Barre road, were
! married by Rev. J. W. rWttie. The
I ceremony was celebrated on the eve of
; Thanksgiving, and the bride and groom
ere unattemb-d. Mr. and Mrs. Watson
xpect to have the city Sunday for
Bristol. Conn., where the former ia em
rloyed as a mechanic.
