Ann
Era
OFFER
Published in the Mo
renci - Clifton District.
Population 15,000
The Oldest Copper Pro.
during District in the
State of Arizona.
AND HORENCI LEADER
rnT TT1MTT YVTTT
CLIFTON ARIZONA, FRIDAY, DECEMBER i, 1916.
NUMBER 28.
HE
ENCOURAGING HEWS
Ml t-Ulitbl
HIGHWAY
JAr. Reddlngton Assures the Copper
.. Era that the Road North to the
County Line Will Be Built Beyond
: Doubt.
UNION LEADERS ARE
DRIVEN FROM
MIAMI
: DiBtrict Forester fteddington, of
JUbuquerque returned ' last Monday
night from a five days horseback trip
over the southern end of the National
Forest. He was accompanied on the
trip by Forest Supervisor Winn,' of
Sprlngerville, and Ranger . John A..
Adams of Clifton. (. ,r :
The purpose of the trip , on-,: Mr,:
Reddington's part was to become ao.
quainted with the country ' and '" 'Te
people and as far as possible the range
force. While on the trip the proposed I
line of Green le county was discusseq
and an idea was obtained as to 'the
1.: 1 nnu A hA oifili
ted by the construcUon of the road.
The District Forester is not in a posit
tion to say now what action will be
taken on the application of Greenlee
county for funds available -under : the
Federal Aid Road Act to help the con
struction of the proposed road. He
states, however, that all the points
bearing on the project have been clear
ly stated in the application filed by
the county officials. That the projoct
is one which clearly comes within the
provisions of "the act, and that the
project, with several others, will re-
ceive consideration within a very
short time, and the recommendation L'
of thir rMKti)ot-F"nrestpr will - be for
warded to the Secretary of Agriculture ft
V. . ,-1, lV..ii'nf T t- 1 1 '1 1 1 1 T - hv tj
Ed Donnelly and the Mexican agita
tor named Moreno were forced to
leave the camp following a mass OiWt
ihg of the miners, held on the streets
of the concentrator camp on last Sat
urday evening. .
v The men urged a strike,, for closed
shop' and the conservative members of
the union were so Indignant "that the
agitators were compelled ; to . go in
hiding. ' . -
The Arizona Record gives the cause
of '-the trouble as follows y
Ed Donnelly.- president-elect of the
Xrizpna Federation of Miners, and an
agitator' named Moreno . were forced
to flee from Miami last night after
they - had: made speeches'-on a street
corner-, advocating :- a .. strike w ob
tain the., closed , shop rule tin.-, this
members'- of ; the Miam union and ' of
die Arteona- Federation, led ' tie body
which forced the , two speakers into
seclusion. Donnelly .came, .to, .Globe
itar-'ari- automobile" furnish'ted 'by " the
sheriff .' Moreno has' disappeared?. I
. - The.trouble.-grewout 'Of- disserisios
between members of the miners: u:
ions in the district irfwhich the rad
icals, or : agitators, on the ohe'-tLand,
have soughtia .strike fort; the,-.-closed'
shop," while the conservative, .miners,
on the- other hand, hare been 'satis
fied with present'''', cohditafefis ' Don-
tnellyv? and, Mare.no 'represented the
radical jelement. anjj , .preseed-.their
views, calling for. a strike,, in .tbeic
108 1 '"-
PATRONS' DAY AT
SCHOOLS WELL.
HOTDEDli
On last Wednesday the Board of
Trustees, teachers and pupils .of Qia.
Clifton ; Public Schools jatteiieqi hyr
patrons and parents, of the district,
participated in an exhibition of the
work that-'-haS rr-heeai.-:-
since the'v beginning of-:-4h-r?rchool
term'. . , . : y ;
Superintendent - of 'Schdois,. , . J..; A . t
Davis, and Mi:' W.-R' Burrey'-priq-'
cipal of the HighvSchoSij' assisted br
the teachers in th : various'1 . . "grades.
left nothing undone- : to : make.' the;
event a scholastic success .'Jj.''' ""'''.:.-
The visitors were' greatly .interest
ed in the proceedings1 of the pupils
as' they exhibited' their Tegular work.
At the High ' ' School " ' there was
manual training, art . and domestic
science exihibits'. In 'the" art depart
ment,: .much, praise was given to-Mis
Baine, art instructor, one particular
piece of work by a pupil, Ricardo Rod
riquez, the drawing of the Venus de
Mile, was-especially meritorious and
received nyich. .praise. .. This drawing
was the one that won the prize ror
the Clifton schools at. the State Fair.
'The day's program concluded at the
High school, by a recital and musical
entertainment, in which the partici
pants -acquitted themselves with great
credit. The large attendance present
proved that the people of Clifton take
great interest In anything affecting
education.'
B.f.D.E;JIEfiflORIAL
Annual Ceremonial Will , Be Held
... Priripess .Theatre on December. 3rd
FINE PROGRAM IS PREPARED.
December -15th.
Mr. Redington was greatly Impress
ed with the mining, grazing and agri-
V . V. W ... . . .J .. - J' . - - - -
JSreenlee county which he visited. If
a road, such as the one proposed is
put through, the big timber resources
of the Blue range should be made ac
cessible to the Clifton-Morenci dis
trict; such a road, would also open up
-a recreational area to' the people who
want to get into the mountains, away
from the beat of the southern belt.
While in Clifton Mr. Redington
conferred, with Messrs. Dutton and
Witt,' of th&Board of Supervisors, and
had. -taiks with a1 good many of ' the
pripininent citizens, in order ; -to get
theie-views in -regard to the proposed
road project. Mr. Redington says that
thehospltality of Clifton is of the best
and he expressed a wish that he could
stav longer. .
While at the Base Line Ranger Sta
tion, 35 miles up the Blue from Clifton
Mr. Redington witnessed the, send
ing of the first wireless - message
sent from any ranger stat'on in the
southwest, and probably from any in
the United States. " .' '
The message which was transmitted
was as follows:
Amateur Radio Association.
Official Radiogram.
Headquarters, Baseline Ranger Sta
. tion, Arizona, Nov. 26, 1916.
Forestry, Albuquerque, New Mexlco,-
This message by wireless from
Baseline Ranger Station. Apache Na-
. - . n a . J. C A I
zona, distance forty miles. -First
of its kind sent in this district, prob
ably first from any ranger station in
the United States. Project conceiv
ed by Ranger-William R. Warner, ap
paratus installed by him and Ray M.
Potter. Cost $75.00. This method
should render possible large decrease
in construction and maintenance cost.
Forest communication systems. This
message being sent to all Districts
and Washington.
(Signed) REDINGTON
Copies to San Francisco, Calif.,
Portland, Ore., Ogden, Utah, Denver,
Colo., Missoula, Mon., Washington, D.
c - ''
While meaning much to 'the Forest
. Service this should mean much to
Clitton and vicinity, and the other
towns and settlements along the Blue
and San Francisco rivers; since
notices of high waters can be wirless
ed to town hours ahead of the floods.
Mr. Redington says that much
- credit should be given in this connec
tion to' Ranger Warner and R. M.
Potter,yfEe former of whom concervea
the project, and the latter wno install
street corner speeches.
'"':, -. - Trouble expected
Early yesterday lit was nosed' about
he Concentrator. .City and .GAobe; that
Donnelly and Moreno would.speak. at
a inass meeting In Miami last" night.
ureing a strike. Members 'or "the1
Miami union, meantime, hearing, cf
these reports," warned Donnelly that
if he persisted in, agitating, trouble
might ensue.. Donnelly and Moreno
however, continued with their pro
gram and held their meeting.
Several hundred .miners from; the
Inspiration' and Miami companies'
mines attended the meeting. . puring
Donnelly's and Moreno's addresses
there was no interruption, and both
men were permitted to conclude.
.Following the meeting tne crowd
Th Occasion ' Is
Solemnized by
Hodges' r Tlifoughout """ the United
States. " 'J.!
Program of. the -Elks'--Memorial, to
be held on Sunday; December 3, at the
Princess Theatre, -Ciifton, has been is
sued: It Is one of the most complete
and "best programs wheh the B. P. O.
Elks of Clifton has ever arranged for
this solemn occasion. It has ' been
arranged by the Menfbraial day ' com
mittee, consisting of M: E. Crawford,
V. A. - Sanders, Neil Thompson, A.. A.
UNION APPROVES
CONDITIONS IN
GLOBE MINES
Members of Local Postpone All -Action
Looking to the Closed Shop Is
sue. Possiblity of Strike Fades
National Officials and Inactive Mem
bers Accredited With Defeat.
Members of the Globe local Western
Federation of Miners will take .no
action, either now or in the immedi
ate - future, toward ' demanding the
closed shop or an Increase in -wages.
This question was settled definitely
last night at a meeting of the local
union in their hall on North Broad
street.- A vote of members taken at
the meeting -resulted in indefinite post
ponement of the issues.- ir- s -.....:
- The. meeting had been : called for the
purpose of deciding, if tne- Globe
Elements, J. uaines. ' if.,1 T , JTi
r The memorial is a yearly ceremonial,! Miners union saouiu an uuv.aory
of the lodge. In every city in' the i yote on the closed shbp :Aetion on the
United States members of the ; Elks ! increased , wages ;hadJ:ui0t,beenv'con
gather on this day for the purpose of ; templated at this time.-although there
raying tribute -to their brothers who: some talk . of bringing. up the
have died during the twelve months (iuestion. Arge percentage of the
preceding. The custom has been .fol-,m?bel'sb-iP'.fttt6nded the meeting. -,
Uwd bv the lodea for manv -. - rears. V''The question put , to the. .mmers was
and the ceremony is one of the solemn
:ih'brief: "Shall thia union hold an ad-
occasions . when every inember meets CfS0;' to".etenni. if. a .com-
in memory of past friendships ... and, uoV-uo "a"'c'J w-vo-i.
.t.rb - - " ." ."' the' mine managers for a closed show
h.'nrnn, fnf rha mBmhrlal iprJ recognitiour' A lively battle
. "o- - - .- . tr . -.1 h-.n-Ha hstn-iuiii th,
vices tnis year follows;.
Selection, Adams; Orchestra
of
Iwords between the conservative and
itfore' radical members " of the union
ASPIRANT FOR PRESIDENT !
; ., . ; OF THE SENATE ,
,. - I 'Divine Redeemer,"
Clar-'.O.-" J- Raiffeisen'
j t.. t r o..j,i " ; creceaea ie uaiiouus. ue isuuea
Orienihg Ceremonies; Cod-ge-'Offlcersl .t8-1 advlsabllity r
-!:or Riley Exalted Ruler .''",J: :-Jot- opening - a;' breach
-:.oninB Oi-AnlaLitrtr'vne. .with the mining eompany which might
GOURT RULING IN
COLORADO
CASE
Gounoud Mrs.:?01 easV?,tPe,ic.loseti-.
Twp representatives of the executive
idee of Graham county, is out as can-1 Address. Brother Mulford Windsor; ;;of boardof the .Western,Federation. of
didate for the presidency of the State Yuma, Arizona . ' Miners,- VV jfflam Davidson of -Denver,
l"ft - i fiL ,nr,a a tnher "Abie With Me." S. Riddle A"" D.' and Wl A. Burns, of Virginia City, Ne
of the 'last legislature,naturally brings Woolsey. ...... . ... .- ,.;,U9fmtKS90t
Mm- forward 'as a leader of his party I rear oi, u israei, max opicnw, up. l n . .Kr
is ability for l -'ju Krs. XMein, Mrs. naitieisen, sit. ,a;nuiu ; ir. nviusuu wao copcuiau.
-active in nis enaeavors to prevent tne
H. i precipitation of troubles in this dis-
pnrt thpi-A is no doubt of his ability
:th'nnnltlnn. - '. .' ..TTmfleet,: Mr. Clement.
Senator Claridee has been a resident "Ziott," Paul Rodney-Mrs."
W.
nf Oraham- rountv and the State of Neiil
Arizona for thirty-three years. During I Eulogy Rev.
the- past . fifteen years he has beeh
active as a leader in the democratic
party in this, county -and the State,
and :a hard . w:arker for its suceess.
His work as a legislator in the last
legislature has endeared ; him to the
.Mian Krichbaum.
Lift Thine Fyes," Mendelsohn Mrs.
Neill, Mrs. George, Mrs. Raiffeisen.
Selection Adams Orchestra.
CHosting Ceremonies By the Lodge.
Benediction Rev. C. H Love.
trict, and for the past week, had .been
exerting his: influence with, members
of the G10be local . '
- In additon, according to the mem
bers of the union, the inactve mem
bership was a large factor in defeat
ing the proposed action. These, Tnem-
The general public are cordially in- bers, men who maintan their standing
jonowmg tne meeting we crowu .,eople o thjs county and 'the. State ! v':ed to. these services wnicn will oe-1 pay their fees, and are entitled to a
incensed at the agitation for. tnke,U ' . proud of his record, wh'ch'tV "promptly at 2:30 p. m. , , vote at regular meetings, do not take
e u- k0 r.,otin artri -hnneKt . anti ai-1 v a : A. . , . "an esneciai active can in tne unions
I AtX. I'lfeuen IM . affairs, and are for this reason desig-
lAVX. LICENSES IN natPd "inactive 'However, thev turn
ARIZONA INCREASED 4774 Qxlt when important issues are before
i - - ; the union . In number they far exceed
Section is president, of tfee 3i- $?$mg'gTiknr 'lhe. acvf emDers. and their
ak-,wiit"mean: i-. -great eal-W- wfee I IVT .L ! 'elSht in hal'otstate representatives
co--. -. - .-j v n,.- nA qL ;
ward the two . sncakery, DpneHv re-H the Dest interests 6f the peo-
tion. picture theatre.tiieby v.-Morenol
disappeared and has since remained
hidden.. It is presumed he fled.fto
Globe; - where his '-companion1 dialer
Was-brought.-' '' .i' ' "'
i - --Officers Appear
.SeaTch'for the missing speakers- at
tracted deputy Sheriffs in Miami, and
they in turn ;called Sheriff Frank
fisynes ;"and 'several deputies,'' from
Globe. " 'Haynes' and his men arrived
while the crowd was still
about the streets. They
nelly in the theatre, drove their auto-.
mobile to the door of the house,
spirited the speaker into the machine j''-
and rushed him to Glooe.
Mrs
dent- elect, pleaded
We are confident of his ability as a .
presiding officer and feel eureJthat his (
Can a man be convicted of commit.
ting a crime when his own confes
sion is the only substantial and un'
questionable evidence against himf
Should the courts permit the admis
sion of the confession of one of the
parties charged with an offense
when that confession is submitted as
an essential part of the corpus - de
licti, the "body of the offending?"
These questions may seem merely
technical, but, as a matter of fact,
they are concerned with the , admins-)
tration of all those phases of - oar
criminal law in which all the people
are-concerned. and they will be ar
gued, shortly before-the state supreme
court when James W. Kelley, special
counsel in the case, presents the ap-.
peal on error of the people of Colo
rado against Ernest Rogalla and
others. : :.-.-.-'-- " .--
Rogalla and his brothers are small
stockmen and ranchmen in Morgan
county, near Hoyt. Archie Sandford
is also a small cattleman in that dis
trict. In September -of last year
Sandford lost one of his steers. From
things he observed "and things he
heard, Sandford- .concluded that the
Rogallas had killed his steer and cut
it up into meat. ' . He filed an infor
mation against the . Rogallas to tnat
effect. The case was tried recently
in Fort Morgan .by Judge H. P.
Burke. . It came out in evidence that
nobody had seen any of the Rogallas
kill the steer.-' None had seen the
carcass after the killing. But the
"hoofs and hide" of a steer had been
found in a well on the Rogalla ranch,
and Ernest Rogalla . had ' formally
and freely confessed to officers of the";
law that the "hide and hoofs" found "
In the well-were those of Sandford's
steer, and that he, Ernest Rogalla,
had helped kill the beef.
But, when Attorney Kelley ssb
mitted. this confession of Ernest- Ro
galla, counsel for the other -defendants
objected to its admission on the '
groufid that the crime charged had
not Otherwiserbeen -proved and that
the- crime had, . in -.effect, to be proved ;
independently or .the. confession . be
fore the confession could be ad
mitted. Judge Burke sustained this
objection and -directed acquittal of the
defendants, but. he based his action,
he said, on 'one -."leading" Colorado-
decision and ' suggested that his de
cision should be appealed by Kelley ;
to' the state supreme -court, in-view
of the importance of the. question.
Great Divide.
and economical legislation during frei't la t. "ate; ft. an there were
next -session ptlepmft dumber ot iTcen-
f Senator aridSe---.snotoMfed f 7.318, white
m any way with any faction , Hip : . a month to
work i,; bF&eI3lOTl 1 hive ibeen reissued 12,092
imes for legislation thajt 'is beftecfel - It is evident from this
. v. ' . for economy-in' the business affairs or -
people" -re exceed-
the State.
;'K
I r supER).OR.coviRcr notes:;
ished him to Glohe. J ' ' ; "' Williams is':. to have, another news- Apiicio,,; tigenshipr was- filed
. . Donnelly,., wife .of the ;presiv paper. The promoter :i8 :.a.. Mr. toc'V-'th the'eierk bt the"coUrt b'y George
olot- nloaflf.H - witii tho 1 &a teri ' vh in - thft nast. has been connected . ,
Clarendon of
definition' of: A. householi utility.'A-Vf, Eulogia Dianes;-ai 15-year bid incor-
UL IV. KS LTt'WU IUI II CI IlUoL'dilU . VV WIIU f.LkKJ r uuaiuo "J'
tne.searcn ror , tnevmissmg sneaker.-,.; . f . -.-;-..' a marrlaee license was" issued to
was ' still -nroeres8insr. she aDtieared !
nelly "would - leave Miami and never'
return if the crowd gathered would
permit him' .to leave peaceably.-' it s
According to those who witnessed
the trouble and the search for Don
nelly and Moreno, the crowd was or
derly and . quiet, but. . . determined
Of the union, was responsible for the
action taken last night.
The action of the Globe union in in
definitely postponing action on the
closed shop, settles for a time at
least the question of a strike in this
camp. Had the advisory vote been
approved by- the union there might
still have been a ground for appre
hension. .. With the stamp of approval
placed on Globe working conditions by
the miners themselves, it is hardly
Jikely. that further agitation for wage
increases, recognition or other de
mands will be -pressed. Globe Record
' '." : :
, A miniature, cyclone struck Oat-
mari 'the other day and carried away
wife is an ex-girl, who
her .greatest . ambition ,-f'
has realized rigible Mexican girl, was committed I the major portion of the tent houses
in the . residential districts ..
Practically'! every . .member of the.
party was a member of the Miami
unon. Donnelly, when told the names
of certain of the leaders, admitted
In Globe that he knows them and :
recognized that they are Tepresehta-'
tives of the conservative branch . of
the union. - '.". ''" . .' -V I
Others in Miami it was' stated
after the trouble last night, who 1
have been agitating along the same
lines as Donnelly, have been warned
by members of the union that they .
must either leave the district or ,
change their attitude. No further-1
demonstrations is anticpated unk-ss
agitators continue calling on the
miners to strike on the grounds pro
posed by Donnelly and Moreno.
ed the apparatus and transmitted the SLAYER OF HOLD-UP
first message. Mr. Harriman or t'.it
ton. received the message sent from
Base Line Station.
Mr. Reddington left for Safford on
Tuesday last to meet Supervisor
Swift and the rangers of the Crook
National Forest.
MAN IS EXONERATED
DON'T DELAY ORDER THE ARI
ZONA GAZETTE NOW.
Can you appreciate the value of hav
ing a copy of a state paper in your
home each day? The Arizona Gazette
prints more news of interest to you
than any other daily Arizona news
paper. You can subscribe for a
whole year, if you do it now, for
$4.75. This saves you a large por
tion of your money and puts your
fingers on the highest points in the
news situation each day. The Ari
zona Gazette operates a daily direct
leased telegraph wire from the Asso
ciated Press and all news nations 1
political, financial and otherwise is
offered their many readers. Get the
Gazette it you want to read the latest
reports of the N. Y. Stock Exchange.
Order direct from the Arizona Gazette,
Phoenix, Arizona, or through The
Copper Era.
Mertie Graham, proprietor of a pool
hall in Mirmi, has been completely
ro-ovaed cr the killing of FeHpa
' .'t-2, a Mexican who attempted to
hold him up at 2 o'clock last Sunday ;
morning. Graham had closed his
place of business and was on his way ;
home when he was accosted by two I
Mexicans, who in spite of his ef-!
forts to avoid them, stopped him and'
ordered him to throw up his
hands. Graham dodged and one of,
the hold-up men shot, the bullet
grazing Graham's arm. Grahp.m re
turned the fire and Lopez fell. The
other Mexican escaped. i
Kingman has organized a country
clul) with seventy-two charter mem
bers. . - i
' ".Er.Mf i : to tne ; maustriai -.souopi . v i .-.
? awr ff8' ss, -.
A -rj v,
k? 4P
- - pr". tesLz?
jfv's-'J- "i uir sa.
A REAL BARGAIN IN A DAILY
NEWSPAPER FOR 1917.
The Arizona Gazette of Phoenix,''
Arizona, holds their Annual Bargain
Period this month, when : you can se
cure the paper for a whole year fpr
?4.75. This is a big saving in money
to people who are interested In a
state' newspaper.- .A- whole year's
report from the Associated Press over...
a leased telegraph wire covering the
national news, stock reports on all
listed items, state and local news. -Ycu
cannot go further to get a paper-
that will fill your wants. Mail your
check for J4 . 75 today, or have .T he
Copper Era send the order in for you.
' T,v
MR. WALDROM ENTERTAINS ,
Mr. Waldo Eustace Waldrom. who.'
at the 'time he first made his debut In
Clifton society, was commonly known
as ."Charlie Chaplin," owing to the
resemblance . of a certain growth on
his -upper lip. to one; cultivated and . .
worn by Mr.i Chaplin, and other anal
ogous, features of these gentlemen, .
and who, also, during the- baseball
season of the Copper League, was the
worthy protector - of ' the - southwest
bag' of our diamond, and the depend
able pinch hitter of the club, gave a- -
very enjoyable theatre party on Wed
nesday evening, November 22nd, at.
the opening performance of "Under
Two Flags" featuring Miss Theda
Bara,' at the Princess theatre.
, Mr. Waldrom, although he cannot
consistently and conscientiously be
termed the anthological center of the
Clifton social conglomerate, is con-,
ceived of being a very popular mem
ber of the smart set and at all times
by his pleasant, congenial and gen
erous personality affords a prodigious
amount of amusement and pleasure
for his associates, and it is sincerely
hoped that the rumor, wherein is
stated his intention of leaving the
sheltering wing of our grand U. S. '
A. for the fields of fortune of South '
America, is still within the incipient
stage and that time, In cooperation
with a certain fair maiden nf thA Kan
Francisco valley, may be able to In
duce Mr. . Waldrom that his future
should frame itself in the land of the
stars and stripes.
Those present at the party given
by Eustace were Misses Mildred Co-
tey, Mildred Kelly, and Lucile Merrill,
itnu fliKNsrs. ii. a. . nigrum, j. i.
Aspelmier and W. E. Waldron. This
is the first event if its kind to appear
in tho social editor's chronoloeical re
cord of Fall happenings and it is need
less to say those ' mentioned above
sreatly appreciate the honor bestowed
upon them by Mr. Waldrom.
Tom Campbell has this array of
applicants from which to select a
private secretary, according to ru
mor: Lawrence D. Clark, Bisbee;
Tom Maddox, Williams; Allen
Jaynes, Tucson: Joe Proohoskn, '
T.obe.
Mr. S. Decker, in charge of a crow 01" twelve voung ladies, has arrived r Clifton and is making preparations) Florence ladies, members of the
to thoroughly canvass the district in :tie interest of the .Calumet Baking Powder Company, of Chicago. The ; "Village Improvement club," gave a
voun ladies will be busy for the icxt few weeks dcpionstrating the superiority of Calumet Baking Pow- street fair and carnival. A goodly
der to the housewives of the town. Vlicy will bo here one whole week and it is their intention to make a thor- sum was netted, which will be eni
ough demonstration before they leave - 1 tV n??r!'t c"thH fnos cooking necessity will receive its just deserts ployed in buying books for the 11-
. :. . ... . . ::i,' demonKtratoi-j-;. - " . brary.
