fa I
SS
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Increasing cloudiness to-day; rain or
snow at night and to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 39; lowest, 36.
Detailed weather, mini I and murine, n purls on page, 13.
IT SHINES FOB ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 204.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 1916. ','lr.f;Af,191.lj, Ihc Hun Printing nnd PnbUMny AmrlrMon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
9
it
GERMANSAGAIN
WIN GROUND IN
VERDUN ATTACK
Follow Up Gnin in Malun
court Wood Heavy Fire
Blocks Advance.
CLAIM 2,500 CAPTIVES;
2 COLONELS INCLUDED
Berlin Says French Counter
Tlmixt Whs Repulsed
With Serious Loss.
tfiK-iii: iUtt tif'i"lrt tn Tnr. Sc.
I cms. March 21.- The -attack be
jun Hanuanx -sterday afternoon
j ilnH the Malancourt-Avocouit front,
on the wert bank of the Meuta. was con
tir.uid last night with the same support
of tie iv, irtiltcrj lire atid the throwing
f build lire. Hy these attacks the Oer
xsns. ulio alrandy In the afternoon had
iud p'-nsr.fs In the wooded country
to the smith of Malancourt, (rained po"
ton of the Axocourt wood, which Is
the tuithcaelcrn part of the Malancourt
eoJ, l"it nera prevented hy the French
tre fioni adianclng furtlur.
The Paris correspondent of the Dally
.Vint (.is
Tlif ilc-aian attack on Malancourt
i iot cpilb m.il.o any difference In
,. petition of iifTslrs. The Hermans
-.it I l' i rtlll r emplacements and
'iii! thtowcrs. to surprise the llrst
i 'f It tMiiclies ami gain a couplo of
iu ni-nl feet .olvance. I
Th tiiey ,ry ell know cannot In
mi M.i arTcat the tlnal issue -of Hie
bit ' Tor Verdun, which already has
r 0( Id.-I Having failed In the ltd
j' ttu--, thc are now seeking to
mtiniin the attack until Friday, when
ne l.pcilal Chancellor. Dr. von Beth
.".IIoIIk'B. t. to il'IIWT lib Impa-
I. ' aualtvd H:ileinMlt on foreign
fTj r n the JtclchstaK.
t I'ol 1'c.vler, the eminent Swiss
ii, tltirs critic taye, "The battle of Vcr
djr. If over ' "
l.ermanit Claim SI,,1flA Prisoner.
Ttif nsMiultM In which the Germans
Tjile tin 'r aiUalice were niad by Hiva
rUr. reslnHnti" and battallona of Wuert
t'm'.'erjr Uindwchr. In tho phraeolujy
' the Herman otlldjl Matement Ufuetl
ih'.i afternoon, the Uermans stormed
h' elitlrw i-tronKly fortllied French
j"!t!oiis In and near the forest i-outli--t
of Avocourt."
The Herman statement describes the
1-' of the French In killed and
touHcd aa "considerable'1 and Bays
-.it In -addition thirty-two oltWrx, In-
Jim two In command of reglmrntH,
ni more than ",300 unwounded men
rc taken prisoners. A larim amount
; nuteruTulbo wan raptured.
Fttn'-h counter attacks to recover the
C t oi - lost were beRUn Immediately,
kat r. entirely unsuccessful, the (5er-Lit-
tat" Ti' lit t-uyx, and only incurred
furOu - s.
1 otllcUl irniaii it:ilemetit follows:
-t of the Meuke Havarlan rcrl-
X t and battalloiiK of Wiierttembiirc
Unil'e aflu careful preparation!1.
; i i toe tiillre stoiitly fortllleil
r-i h wltloiiM In and near tlie
( -rr n -.-tliea.t of .Wocourt In ad
ft con.-lderaiilo saiiRiilnary
1. , numy has to far incurred
li- a ,1111111111; to thirty-two ofllceiv,
ii, iii two in command of icifl
r ind more than :',:.0n men in
'.'.in i, j pn oners and much war
r .e.i l ie amount of which has not
) Ii i .iM-eri.ilurd.
Is, I'reneli tB.lii 1,nl llearllj.
.ii.'ir attacks atrcmpted by the
dm briikc him any n-lvan-',.
i on the contrary Inillcted
for ?. mouh bistex upon lilm.
if "ie Meuso the situation la
ii .1
a in lurther Infantry attack
i i'i.i to-il.iv in this sector, but
, i urn, nt by the liernun nuni
i e. i re continued without Inter-
'CI,' .r
et,
If .
o ,
h-" ,
fll"
t si
T
c- s
'Mi ,
''III
t .
r.- ,,
T
tfrt "
,i .aiinotiade belui; directed
enlist Hie vIllaKe flf Kxties,
,i f Ans'oiirt on the Varei)nes-
i.ii t roail and MiiMnst inn
Mai: urt and lilies, I
r i
road connecting the two
; large to that i-oiiieiitloii. said Mi.
in ..i.-dinent of this, hill wax be-1 Bryan, "hut If any aif my friends who
' .a afternoon and there haa i s.jddenlc have become friend- of Wood-1
ii i-i.i-e In the Intensity of th" ' wiuon can se.ve him better than,
t e Ha- liermniib beran the .n..,0f H them send home one else to
i The French Kuns replied ,..,
. ' aa. Hie Herman tire and the (f Wll,lro. vson owe me uny-
.. me no attempt ' ln' . thnK l0 lfl more than paid It b.ek
. ,-. U n th'i course of "" bv vnB nhnself to Ills tuition as I Tex-,i-
tery fire was only nt. rmlt- I W UJ J l!or)Sf.v,. i.-r,.,s of
. VS'phln l-hanip !.ark will Mnd Hki. I coub. he,
a .1 mi the Woeuc plain. ,,.! aealnH him. M.v piins-e In
rreiieh xr.Mlery I'heeU. lifrmii...
Tne i, ri -ii nlrht communique fol
leis I . , rf,nne there was crenado
f.'lit ii. ' l.a Haute Clievamiiee. Our
rt lie- . xeeiited a destructive fire
en ' -ifrMian lorks on the sides of
ike imiI from Vlenne e Chateau to
Hi" r 'hi
On t'ie lift bank of the Meuse the
Virrbi-ii i, m cnntlnues with vlolcnjo
If 'V a.ioii of Malancourt. In tho
v 'i Ktnes and Hill 301. He
rt'sij i .. h srrat energy by our ar
'le ftiem made no attempt at
i ii the cour-e.of the day.
Then mm an Intermittent hombard
f:n i ii sa-xerni xiintx of the front,
tn "ir ', r thu Meutae nnd In the
W.y.v v
If l.rrnne there was Bartlvtty by
'ir artillery against the 3erman or
tiildioi s to the north and cast of
l,n,heni,eni
In upN - Alsace our artillery took
Mir a tin. enemy troops whlrh de
touched rrmn Nlederlurc, noutheajtt of
rt.I.(.s,
hi tlie day our pilots brousht down
' Herman aeroplane,, which fell In
Asmm i the region of Douaumont.
hi thf rilclit of March 30-51 our
rop!:ines bombarded the railway
tloti or Iniii.ur-Meue and Audun
'Hom.iin and German bivouacs In the
"rlon of visneuiieH (In the lit. Mlhlel
Ilent )
German ;n n Malanroart Wood
The text of the afternoon French com
' luw.,,Je follmvit:
In Hegiun, reconnalstance mi tlie
purl of the enemy whlrh took plaoo
Coiiimucf on Third Pog.
15,000,000 FOR EMPLOYEES.
(leneral llecrlc Co, to I'aj ,1 Per
Cent. Hamaars.
fcitl.NSl.TADT, N. v.. March Sl.i:. W.
Rice. president of tlie nenernl Hlcctrlc
Company, announced to-day that the
company Intends to gin, Its employees
oetween t.l,000,uou and IS.rtOO.nuo In
bonuses, representing 5 pc.r cent, nf the
annual wage of all who have been with
the company live earx or longer. This
will be paid In two Instalments, 'hi- llrst
u"""1 an'1 lhl' fecund In February.
Hfly thotiHatul cmploci"i will profit by
the plan.
Thi announcement leads:
"The board of director has vet aside
a mim sutlMeut to permit the p.iinctit
of all employees toth.r than dln i tors
and general ottlcere) who shall hnc
been In ll service cotixecutli cly for tile
or more years (determined a of June 3"
nnd December 30. tOl'i. la-spectlu-ly)
supplementary compensation,"
Uy the arrangement of two payment."
many men In the works hero who would
not bo entitled to participate, In Hie
distribution If hll were paid In one In
stalment will sham In the second dis
tribution, taxing completed the lice
yearn service between June 30 and l'e
ccmber 31.
KILLED FOR CURSING WILSON.'
" - '
t.rreU shoots ,eek, II i.ltirnl.
Urd, Hern n e of Instill. I
VslllNtiTos l'a March SI. Oils J Czar's troops, wboe chief aim Ifl dl
Sllhw. naturalized lireeli. was shot iil.d x,rt T,., reenforcemcnts from the
Killed here to-day by tins Arcerls, an- . , , ,,
other adopted cltl7.cn. when li; cuised the i w,'strr front and fun e u dlsco.Ulnu
rresldent. A thltd man was wounded by "" of the attacks on Verdun, ham
the second bullet llr-d at Slll.i". Jin-en crowned by tuo important uc-
The two ptlticlpnls were rniriiKed In
an arKUliieut about the war when the In
cident took place. Arirerla was arrested Tl, reclons In which the Itusslcnx
after attrmptlnK to esca-. i hnve struck the initial b1o of thMr
COLE YOUNGER, BANDIT,
ROBBER, DIES AT 72
'
lti.,tli.i.d i
Last of Notorious
Who TiMTorlzctl W'i'st
Yours in Prison.
I.K.KS St'M MIT, Mo.. March 21.
Thomaa Coleman Youmier,, luiionous ns
Cole Vounxcr. border raider, bandit and
bank robber, dleil here to-day. need ' (-tublwrnly for sewn hours; then at
, i tempteil to r, treat by boats, but were
,3 year. He mis the last of three frc by the murduous HusLlau fire to
brother who with the .lanie boys ter-1 abandon these and choose the only re
rorlzed the middle West for carx with I malnlnc avenue of escape, that throuKh
their desperate deeds. ' 1, ""Vi , L,.."'.'Jr."'.!?-
Uol, YoiitiKir died when the
.
tlirfe
brothers were serviiiR a t nil iti tlie
Minnesota penitentiary. lit) Younuer
committed suicide In St. Caul In I'.H':',
about a year after Cole ami he h id been
set free on parole after serving twenty
live car In prison for their various
crimes. When captureil in .Minnesota
Ihey had xelred the opportunity of life
Imprisonment for murder to plead
liiiprlsoniuent
Rtrltty.
The three Yoimser brothels were born
In Missouri. The weie nil tmuerfull.i
Iitlllt men who could ride an sort of
pony or horse and shoot e.U.illi well
with either hand. Their fatlor. a mall
carrier, was shot by l.amhis. Cole ., ii,
Jim scr,d with tlm 'on federate at
111 the lvll war. After Hie war the
three brothers Joined with the .laitie-
boys, robbing banks In .Missouri, bold
ins up since coin-hex ami steallmc horses.
They killed many men. but their boast
wax that they never (hot any pi r.-on
In cold bloo.1, une of their moM daring
exploit win. a lii'.l'i'M raihhai- In a bank
In Corydou. la.
They broke with the .lames brothers
after a bank robber) In whhh .Urn had
been so badly wounded thai be left a
trail of blood as lie tied on horseback,
al.lna In his hrnthers. The .lames hoH
t wanted to hill Jim to hasten their Might
but Cole and Hob refused. traellig
slowly and remaining wlih their wounded
I brother. 1
Tlie Voungers Dually were drlcn out,
of Missouri and then attempt' d Hie iob
hcry of a bank In Northlb-hl. Minn.
'Many men were killed In the raid, but,
the robberx were drlseii from the town.
' leaving two comrades behind and with
lout the money Finally Hoy were cap
ture,! and sent Hi prison. After Cole'
and hlx brother were rclcas-il, Cole ie-
d 11.1m IrilL'll.
BRYAN OUT FOR WIIS0N.
'.
Illhep .Niime foe Cum eitllam"
aeil lnrl In IPC-.
Lincoln. Neb.. Maivt 21.- WH.I.im
.1. Hryaii came out op.nl' to-day for
the renomlnatlon aif I'lesldeut Wil-ou.
lie aald (hero aoilld be no othrr iiilidl-
,ate at tlm St. Isniis conii nlioi.
;l, candidal'- foe delegiite at
Haltlmorc was that I would not do any-
1I1IIIK lis,! ..... ,,.n. ' i
turning the Iiemocratlj- party oier to
Wall Street, I believe that by repudiat
ing Wall Street we saved the I leiuociiltlc
partv and made possible a ilctot III
191-y."
Rrnn Tarne llonn fl.Hl.lHMi
Chnainniiiin l.eelure Offer.
I.INi-ot.N, Na-li.. Maich 'Jl l"or pro
hlbltloii nnd brother Charles, an offer
of JHifl.nOfi. tendered him for services i
as CliHUtuuaiUH lccturr. ban been ic
fimed by William .1. Hr.m, who cayx
his time will be. occirpb-d with the prohi
bition campaign In Nebraska and the
furthemncr of hlx brother's c.indld'icy
for Hovernor on the airy ticket.
llrjan liitlniati-d that he belleied thu
'.. ti... .er..n ....... I.,...!...! tv (
nurcaii iimnina '
InterexlH which desired to keep him out
of politic.
RUSSIANS IN ISFAHAN.
Now
Control I'rarllrallr All nf
Western Persia,
IjNDON, March 21. Russian troops
entered Isaphan. the old capital of Per
sla, on March 10. aocordlntr to a Iteiiter
despatch front Teheran,
The capture of this Important Persian
city Indicate that the Huxslan army Is
almost completely In control of western
I'erslit. Ispahan Is about 2Ii0 miles
southeast of Kermanshah. which wnii
recently raptured by the Itusslans. The
Itusslun army split Into two dlvlxlotw,
one heading southwest In the relief of
th Urttlfh on the Tigris and the other
moving wnMlMiuit toward tot Fenian
Quit
CZAR'S TROOPS
LAUNCH THREE
NEW ATTACKS
(iiiin Important Successes
on the BuUowiiia and
Wilna Fronts.
AUSTRIAN'S HEW WAY
THROUGH FOE'S LINE
tprnn' Cnlilt Htfpnlth In Tur. Srv.
I.OMK1N, March 31. On three vital t
points of the Ioiik battle Hue In the eait !
the Ittlssllltl hale Hllrlnc the last forty- I
Wilt hoiirx launched lolcnt mTeiiflvcit
uaaliist Hie liermaii- iind Austrian. Ac-1
,,.. , ,,.,, ...i.msslolw from ller-
,! vit una the new cffortH of tbo 1
' new orfenslxc are the ItlKii-Dninsk cf.
tor, the Names Lake front, due east of
Willi,, ntlil tht Alllp(i,li nOMit lutis pill rit.
lllir (zernou Hz. lite Itnknwln.i caoltal.
from the north. On the two Inst named
outs Russian successea are ecoided.
Ilerlln admits the tlrrmnrm were forced
to abaiidon a salient due south of
N'rocz 1-ike, wlthdranltiK their linen
a few hutidied meters.
The iraln on the lliiknulna Iwirder was
won by the ltnslanx after a violent bat
tle It netted them the Dniester bridge
head of IVcIeczko, n point of stra-
t-irleitl value llleh tribute to the heroic i
restanc of the Austrian is paid In
the Vienna olllclal statement describing
the battle. The Kusxlanx madV a
breach 3i.ni nrdx wide n the Austrian
lines. The defendltu; garrison held out
-v., . ..i, ...,,i.;imi, mrj 1.UC
re.'.Ud in cuttlnu their wuv throiiL-h the
mm occuple,! by the Uus-slans and
ranched the Austrian luivancvd osts.
Iinportuot linln fur 11 Haitian.
The In III;.' foriltlratlons which thu
fell Into Itusslati hands have been MJe-
.ifll!lt. . I..... 1 . ... .
K.r sU inon ' T hee e'eirualZ
,,n ,i. fH,..,. ...- .... . ... V,
""'"ii.n vji iiiv ii.sv nil.
stall offeli-ll,. , the sjiljthwest. Their,
fall, therefore, represent); the most' Inv
p.irtant llussi.ui gain since tint establish
nient of the new front In the eat.
In the extreme north, according to tho
C.'rmaii War i iffM-, all Itusslati attacks
southeast of Itiga broke ilowu niiiltr the
lire ..f CI. id Marshal von I llndenburs'a
,r""P
.1 iierim uespatcli tells of the con
..iiii.iiinii oi i.uge uussian lorcex III
eoiiili Coland, fori shH.owlt new at-
..si.iui me leumn one in ini-
....inn, iiii iniwifi ,i.i , .anorysK uie
main muK All liiillcatious are that the
Itiis-lans will push their new offensive
wiin tn-Bin ami mum cigiuing in the '
ast Is una i i.sbi'rabl facilitated by
instantly improving wi'atlier cotnlltlous,
The Mistilim ofllclal etatein.nt follows:
Aftir six months of brave defenie
the bridge rortttlctitlons noithwest of
I'.. iei.ko a,.llap.ed on Sunday eve
ning and wale cwiciiat.ii Although I
the l!tis.i.:ai s Micreerfed In the morn-
lug In au-l ig l means nt explosions
a I'le.n i :mii meters wide, the garrl- '
son, which was attacked by forces
fight fold superior, held anil seien hours
lunger, uotw ilhstaiidlug all losses, in
the face of Hie most violent artillery
and lufaiitr.i lire It wax not until .'.
o'clock In i b iifta rnaioii that the com
manding otflcer. Col. I'tl.iuckh, deter
uilio'd to i-iacuate the destroy, d
foitltlcalioiis
Small.-i-,l-t it.-titiiont and tin- wounded
li.ili mi. -lied Hie south bank of til.'
Imlexter III boats. Soon, liowcicr. It
was n'cessar) to al. iinb.ii the trans
put ts under the coaecntrle lira' of the
aiieiu. Then- ra-m.iliiad for our hraie
itiiops, ioiiiiis.iI of ImiperorV dra
goons .'in. I sappers, only one way to
escape capture. The were under the
Hi,, necessity of iiittiug a wa through
I's.'lec.ko, which was strongly oc.-ll-.nd
by the enemy, to our troops en
ecmiod on the hciglux north of Z.nle
SC7.VI. .
The march dbectl through tho
ilieiiiv'H pisltion siieceideil. I'llder
coiar'of the til-xht Col, I'tlaitrkh led
his In role tr.-op lo our advanced
Vn-tf tiairtliw.st ol ale Sz.-.yk. where
In arilied early Manila morning.
TI itile- for the brldgi' fortlllca-
lions nt I scla-cko will reinsln for all
time a glorlon-s page In the annals of
our army.
The lleillli statement regarding opera
Hons on Ilia- cistern front follows:
Th" Ituxslaiix lire extending their at
tacks on the uttiiniost northern wing,
south nf Hlga. and on the Hwlna front,
and wa-st of .lacobstadl. They were
npelli'il with sanguinary losses. Strong
, iiemi lecoiiiioltiiiig iletachmentx. ml
van. 'log against the liaitn.in front
mirthwexi of I'o-tav, and between
I.:ikeH N'aio.-. and Wlxzlew, delivera'il
esneclallv strong and flilllla-xs attacks
. ... ..... ..i. -i.i a-i...
lie il'IV -..1,1 lligllt Tlie
..e. v ornooriliiiiuie
fcli !r ! Tio ovel
iinn. ....reoJ V"' ", V,r
HiroUKIIOIII me oaj .111 "
lossix of the
to the number
A far praitrudliig, narrow salient of
our front due south or Lake Naroa'z
liax ben; withdrawn a few hundred
meters townul the heights or lllls
nlckl to'nxnlil Ihe rneiny'n encircling
tire
The Husslan War Office Issued the fol
lowing statement In. night :
On Die western front south of
Dwlnsk them were artillery combats.
Kast or Tverelch we repulsed counter
attacks against our positions at Vlcle
kuslele. Kast of Oodutxltchkl we cap
tured advanced trenches near Hutch
llltchkl. 1u capturing tho bridgehead near
Mlkhattche we'tixik two guns, hilling
most of the defenders In hand lo hand
light lng.
On the Cauc.isuH front, after more
lighting, we advanced a few miles to
the west.
lla' Hrltlah l.naiee, H7II.
Special I'abl OttpnlcS to Tun Srx.
UiNtsiN, March 21. T-ho olllclal llrlt-
Ish casualty list Issued to-day contains
the names of forty-three officers, of
whom thirteen were: killed, and of 83J
men, of whom SOT were killed.
NOPEACEWORD
FROM BERLIN, 1
YETU.S.HOPES
Request to Start NegoihV
tions Not Made, as Re-
ported. Say Officials.
TIME MAY RE NEAR
FOR ENDING OF WAR
WAHittNf.Tov. March 31. "fJcrniany
h.m not m-ked the Fnltnl Slatea to lultl
.1,1.,
al(, prHl.,. nruotlntlon1 . Tin- lep.irtuient
l.uu ..n ..r.,..il.... l l a Mr llerard Was !
asked to postpone hlx v.ientlon bccailhe
0f peace lie icntl.itloiix." '
ThU olllcl.ll Haleinei.t. made publli-
bv the adltis Secretary of State this ,
This
by th
afternoon. ,llsees of a report published
In a N'ew York new sua tier to-day The
report .ald ierniany had stiKtesled to;
the Fulled Stales that the time was ripe
for the Initiation of peace pmposals and
that Mr. Crrard had bf en asked by Von
Hctli.n..nn.lUlliveK. the tJeiman Mn.
cellor, to posti.one his vacation while
neKotiatlonn were under ronsldeiatlon.
Careful Inriulry by Tin: : falls tn
brlnif to llisht any detlnlte move in th
direction of prospectivo peace between
the bclllcerriit Poweis President Wl.
i. t i.it..,l'fcH Mtnleil. h.ir) no
him.i information iM.lUv.tlt.e that either !
liermiiiiy or the Allies are nearer an
underrtanrtlnir on the uuestlon of peace
than they were months .mo. ,
Count von Hrrtvtorrf. the ttrrman
AmbasMi.or. s, 1 to-nlirht that he knew
nothliiK of any jw.ice propiwaU emanat-
Iiik from Ilerlln. Nevertheless jpice !
i i ,ir.. i mile doubt
Ulll cuilllliuri
, u... i, i V.,iir.. i...i m cominuui-
cations which .xmoaseauor uei unuer way Immediately. The squad-
otlier American AmMxsadors forward ,. a, ,.( to-nlght on the
dat y to the lep irtmeiit s-0,i,..r .,., , ,
, .--outhern Hallway, and la duo to reach
Much Henri! of I'ena-e. the Isirder'the latti r part of this week.
Ambassador Cierar." pirMeiilarU hear' Whither the Fifth Is to go into Mexico
tnurli that Is of Intenst from the tier- at once or Is to take, the place of other
,r - a,n.",.e,s.g
Herman KinlKU-cy dow not credit the re- Uf antiounc d. It Is understood,
port that the 1'nlted ta:es Inn. recelied , however, that I'erahlng has asked for
a suggestion from Ilerlln that the scr-, mori. lnf,,mr. aniJ , ( .
vli-eu of the American tjovernitietit might ' , , , I
be midfired j.ropltlou-ly toward lnltlat- ! ,r uhe ''e Place of the Twenty
lng pnusjsals at the present moment, 1 third Infantry or soma, other regiment
but It Is considered likely In certain seasoned to tho bonier climate
quartern that one of Mr tla-raiil eun- T,1(. additional infantiy. It Is assumed,
tontary reir! Iia-s U-en misinterpreted vlll la-, uscl principals In Buardlnii the
by come one and construad pi ; tneaii i that Uwit nf COmmuiiicutloii. althouirb win.
MilUissador Ueranl mm-. ii oeneies ,
peace nentUlein v-e sH'
ilertiianv has dalred pcu-n since
nee
July 30. 1SU,'
wax the reply at the
Herman l.inb.icey to a iiicstlon at- in
whether (tennany's present attitude
fat ore a! peace negotiations. No seiret
Is maale m otticial Jerinan circles hare
that ilernianv for som. time has been
willing to discuss pe.ica-. pimlilcl the
Knteiit.. Allies exnlaxs a like M ilhllKlle-i
and abandon their aniiounccd ileternilna-1
tlon to "crush Hermany ' i
When President Wilson made his last
overtures to iierim me i.ermaii ,oerii- .
fneiit replleil 111 a-na-ci tnai ii woino oe
winii,.. to ill sellss peace .Hid ileslred
v..,., but did not feel that negotiation
,,,uli .
(oilld be Initiated imliss Hi'- Allies maite
the ttifct moic.
More llaipefail im. The aj
In this connection tl-e situation lo-d ty th1' Tweuty-foiirth Iiifantr. at Che -Icsiks
pet haps more hopeful thin It "Mil a i.ne. W o and that a Mpiadron of
a sear ago, for the tea-on that the rat air frmn Fort Kthan Allen. Vt
"criiMi 1 iermany" policy appears to l- has b.111 ordered to Fort Mir, Va., to
less proi.. una e.i as a policy 1'i.in for- take the place of the .s.piadroii of tin,,
uierl. Comment b leading llrltlsh l'lftli. oidered from here to the bolder.1
talesmen now show s a teiidenc, II Is' "Th, so troop.-," ha; raid, "are going
explained, to take a more inodf late view. ' to Hie border at tin- ruiuist of ti'Mi. '
Hnth the Hrili-n aim i raiieu iiiino.-
still antartalli tiopex or siilng the w ar ,
carrla d aa'ros the Itblne bef.ir.f peace is
thoilglit of, but there I- an iiinlercui I ent
of feeling In responsible circles in iili'iit
Britain and France that this would.
prove a gigantic and lo ,1 ceitain extent
nselsss pns ding If Hermit' .-I" Mild be
willing to make pa-ace a. 11 the Alii,-'
terms without it.
This change of filling ma appear n-
slgnlllealit, It Is explained, bill III riallt
It might be the ,.iemiig wedge to d's-
cusslon among the belllga-ieiitx "f terms
of pea.a-. And ome ilis.Misi..n is under
Mil little doubt Is felt In olfVlal a'lr-lfs
hern that the gieitasl aif world will-
will be Hearing its close
It Is for lhs reason that peace so-lp
In the respecthe foreign It :t l. 10. ,
getii. r nun in- ra'sponsinia in w spiiper
I ..rtiimirlit III enell. is fotto'A...I s,i eliwitlv
'at tlii1 Stiala. Iiep.irtnu lit. It N rcalUe.l
that peace, when It does conic, may
come with the same siiililenm s. Hint
characterized the heglmilng of Hie war.
The problem that confronts "he Culled
wllll g iii sllalor l to ft , '
rl g wedg I -,. wll br g I .
I Wrs .0 ti.e "ini ,T rlt
! .States ax
1 some entering
belligerent Powers to the point
1 senllng to preliminary dixcussloii.s
I noKotl.Ulr.11s.
Ilerlln Won't TnUe First ftep.
President Wilson knows that Her-,
many Ix willing to dlscuxs peace terms
with the Allies ,: ml would In. oid.i too
pleasa-d If a w.ii could be found to bring
about this xltuutlon, lint al the same
time Herman Is not w llllng to make the
tlrsl move in Ihe illtecllou aif peace 1111-
less there Is reasonable assurance In
Ilerlln that the Herman snggistinu
would be met half way. Otherwise there ;
Is danger. It Ix ixplalni'al, aif Ihe Allies'
'"il'lt". " 'e .tl'irti...-.., ..1 Hie oil's
1 r"-v r'fuslng JI overtuia.s nnd herald-1
I1'"1 ,,,H f,", ,n"1 """ '""'''l for
peace as a sign of future victor, tlia'ra hy
sending a wave of eiii-ouragemeut audi
enthusiasm throughout the raitcutc capi
tals, Herman diplomatists explain that thl
might liaie a very pronounced effect In i
the morale of Ihe l.ulaiite Allies' tight-
liiff forces and cause a like dctircNsl.m
among the fighting forces of tin, Ccn- I Hrnniles by the .Mexico Northwestern
tral Powers. Therefore, officials sav.ilt.illro.nl from F.I Paso.
., , , . . "
Berlin Is going very cautiously ud re-
fuses to do more tliun place Itself In a
receptive mood for proposals that the
hntentc may wish to make.. I'he Her-
man viewpoint lis explained hern Is that
the wards won ror Oeriimny iiiid that tho
continued fighting Is simply an efTort
on the part or the l.nlente to wrest away
the spoils of ylrtory.
Ureal llrltalns attitude Is the great- munition. The mle desire, he informed ha't night Major-Hen. Scott. Chief of riniuilhoiin' men went on strike onith.it
est mumbling block to (iermany s hopes j),- Airealondo. was lo olitnln rapid stab", stated that he had lecelved a re- dale, demanding an Im icase In wage.
of culling a halt now or III the near transportation facilities tn provide the port that Mexican I W. W agitators It Is reported Ihat Mi have been taken
future. Ainbassailor I uge In Ixuubm cxpa-dltlon.iry force with food and water, i net,, active In Hie Mexican end of No. to -.tile the dispute arid that the im
Is keeping the mate Department cloxely j Hegardlng the number or American gales, which straddles tlm International picsslnn picmlls that th,. sulk,, will
advised, and (.ol, Ifuusa.., when he re. troops now In Mexico anal the probable boundary between AiUou.i and Sonnra n'ii b. settled There Is no Indication
turned from lindon, lold President Wll- length of their stay, Mr. Polk Is under- and wete Uniting tin- Mexicans to attack ' that ilia-re will bo any violence as a re.
son that Ihe llrltlsh were apparently Mood lo linn.' informant Mr Arredumlo the United States. To-day the State He. 1 hull of the strike
House, after visiting London and Her.
lln, considered Hie views al these two
i " .
Continued on TMrtil'uyi:
MORE TROOPS SENT TO FUNSTON;
JOINT ARMIES ENCIRCLE VILLA;
FOIL HIS ATTEMPT TO BREAK OUT
Fifth U. S. Cavalry Ordered
to Proceed to Border
at Once.
FOimrVER SQUADRON
ALItEADY ON WAY
TiV('lll V.fnlll f Ii Tiilont
".
(.(iiir From Clieyenne,
Raker Announces.
WILSON .A OR EES TO
PLAN OF PROTOCOL
i
f, ..,.,,,... rv,.t. . r, ,
b-XpCCtCd to Gp.lllt
Use of Railway Border
Reported Quiet.
Waxhinoton, March II. At
tb
of "r-f ie. Kunon tXw Wa,
I'epartment fo.tiltiht Issued order to the
Fifth Cavalry to proc.td at once to the
border.
ret;lmfiit at presuit Is distributed
Into suuadrons at Fort Sheridan, III ;
Kor, i.eavenuortli. Kan., and Fort Myer.
Vll. T ii-i,, Ir,.,.. I
' "' 1 "01"' troops liave b,en under w.iit-
inc orders slm,. last w,-. k mi.i u-m
mil,u.al m,)ru slating that Villa If
Hariillng for the mountains "ihl.s hr.md
...,.i .
" "'. ' ""Kl" wuia
UM',1 almost ,is will us caialrv In pursu
tug 1 1 1 in
Mrilcans l'rlenall. Hfn llaker.
flir .-Mltllirilm- !,11 ,luu,i,,i.,l.u r...
ulieil at the War I H'partinent up to
111 .30 cloi k Ifi.tilubl. Xiht..j(v lluUer
aniioimced that the latest news from
l-erdnng Indlcat.d that the attitude of
the Mexican iiatlies tow aid tlie cxpa-di-
ii.m was still frlendl
".W far as our despatches show-
t-ald
no- Secretan. "not a shot has
Is-en
llr-d silica, the American torch entered
Mexico."
Secretar llaker stiita-il that In addl-
Hon to tin- Fifth Cavalry the na-w trisipi.
ordered to the hordar tn-tilght Includa-
1 unstou to reiii'ic leusi.in along in
boundary line, and to provide mora
tor.
ror the protection ol the Ixirder
towns.'
Seen lary llaker, who had returned
11 1,111 Cleveland .luring tin al iy, said
thai no couniiiiati..u ol .he repoite.1 ale-
f,.;n ,,f Villa b arr.inzlstas at Nniiil-
gulpl bail ,t leachail the liaiartmeiii.
Although no olllclal ci.ntlruialiou wax
riaelM-d bete of the report that Vllllstas
hale seized the oil tlelals 11 .XI Tiimplco
and Tux..im. on Ihe east a oast, and
t li:u the I'nlti'd Statas gunboat .Machlas
had taken Aineilcan woman ami chlldraii
ff sbola at Ttlxpam, State I ' i.a r I lii.-l 1 1
oillclals aleclaie to-night thai IheM tlclds
L,... n u tontiol id Villa followers
,,f ,,imI 011 for some Urn. and that It
Waiulil not be tuiprlsiog If t is- ra-port
about the M.uhlas wcia n.rrect.
Ullmii tor I'raitoi'ail Plan.
1 '.11 ninz.i's pmposals looking to the
drawing up of a protocol betweiu the
Culled .Stales and tin- de facia. Hotel m
"f M,,ho "'" ration In the
'"r""1' V111" M" "f ,"Uw
"'' .'" "I'Pra.vnl of President Wilson
nnd hlx advisers at to-day's nifatlng of
the a -..til nt 1. Acting Secretary of Slate
I Polk mi adilsril IHix-ai Arreilondo, I'.ir
I iaii.a'x Amb.ie-adoi -dexlgnale, al a a-a.n-1
ferem - at the Statu I'epartment thin
afti 1 noon,
As a result of this, II Is expa'cted that
the negotiations will now' proceed lupldly
and that within a few days tin- two
Hovcrnincnls will reach an agreement
coieilng eii'i possible contingency
which may be expacled to arise In con-
nccilou with the joint campaign against
tin, Mexican outlaw.
Mr At rednndn .h-clared as be left
the Department llmt lie wjis conllilent
me I lep.iri nn II' llllll Of Ityis coillllieill
that niailets would move along smoothly
nnd that there would be no friction be.
1 twca'li the twu natlotih growing out of
the puisull.
In view of the favorable piogia-ss of
the negotiations II Is thought possible
thai Ciriaiiza may agra-e ahead or the
actual drafting of the proclocol to ier-
mil Hio Fulled States to shin supplies
u,i:..ii lierhtilin-'a oillliarv Ii.ism hi ihm.is
i
rue irm "n.
.,, ......p. ,,rltnK t,e need for such a
muileg,. ailing Sscclelari plk. follow,
UiK instnu tlons received b him at Hio
Cabinet t ting, assured the Mexican
1 representative that the Ifnlta-I Slater has
imentloh of usln Ihe t-.illruad for
transportation of troops, or even of am-
have reiterated that tho sole purpose of
the expedition ts to get Villa. Mr. Polk
I again Imprecsed on the Mexican diplomat
United HtatM wag deeply
U. S. ASSURED CARRANZA
IS IN COMPLETE HARMONY
"UTASHINGTON, Mnrch 21 GrntifyinK indications of complete har
mony between the United StntcK nnd Cnrranza Governments
relative to the campaign against Villa were cxprexned by Senor Arrc
dondo, the Mexican Ambassador Designate, after his conference with
acting Secretary of State Polk thin afternoon.
"I expect the joint protocol will be agreed to by both Mexico and
the United States within the next forty-eight hourn," said Senor
Arredondo. He added that he was in dally communication with Gen.
Carranza, and that the negotiations were proceeding in the most
amicable spirit with a view to helping both Mexico and the United
States.
Senor Arredondo said the protocol would contain four or five
major provisions relative to the Villa expedition. It would not be
necessary, he haid, to communicate the full contents of the provision
to (Jen. Carranza after it had been agreed on here, nor to wait for
official indorsement of it, for the reason that Gen. Carranza has been
kept advised of the negotiations step by step, and already knows prac
tically all that the protocol will contain.
Reports that the Carranza forces had attacked the Villa bandits
reached Senor Arredondo here to-day, hut no details of the fighting
have so far come to him from official sources.
TWO U. S. AVIATORS LOST
IN MEXICO; THIRD FALLS
Aeroplane Scouts Hunting Missing Members at the
Front Army Suffers From Heat in Day
and Cold at Night.
CoM jim x, X. .l., March 21.-Two
of the t'nltfd States army aeroplatifo
cent .outh for the use of (Jen. l'cr-i-hlnuAx
Anierlcati i-0iitnns are lost
somewhere betwaen thai tsinler and
their destination and a third Inn been
smashed in u fall.
Tim lnlsxltig aviator." are I.ieut.
Kobcrt 11. Willis and Lieut. Hds.ir S.
Caorri'H, who left berr last Sunday.
I.ieut. T. S. Itowon. a native of
Frankfort, Ky., operating the wrecked
machine, sustained a broken not-e and
other Injuries and the machine was
coiiHlderably damaged In tho fall.
Tho wind wax blowliiK hind MU M
hWl.. . . .. .
j Jlendltt. nvi'itrtfltig to wlrelesx message.s
received at the bordtr tu-day report
ing the accidi'nt. Additional aero
plane scoutx were sent mil lo-d-iy for
l '
tne tront In .m ..frort to lociito thr: litu
missing maohlna-s. It wa xtaled that
they nilKht hap become ilHablcd III
some manner iind forcad to light with
out serious mishap In which event
repair men arc to be sent to them
!. . 11.. 1.1. . ., .
t.an. I'lrshlng now bus live n!,in
With llllll for lllOlllltalll M-OtltlllM. aC -
;"'"'" " ":" 'cpon m a api l ouiois.
1,1 a'oiirgc of tlm aerial i-orps, hut the
"lr cut rents are so uncertain ill tho
lofty maiuiitulns wIuto Villa Is now
Hiding that operations by the aerial
. ...n ,,- o.oiciiii. a, wing 10 ine
llglitin-sx of the nlr ill that altitude the
machine, do not y well and tin- en-
glna-.x, tuned up at Colunibns, have to
be readjusted to Ihc mountain nil- of
Ihc Sierra M.nlrrs
anpiilles ao Fp.
A Micci.'ii train of tlfty-four civilians
I arrived l.cra.
this alternooii froiu Kl
Paso for iin.iri..ei.i.,.i..e ti,..
otllcersi lo clou-. f 11... 1 . 1 1 '"' "f th,. illcadiiiiilaues of the marc'i
i xc 11 .I I,.?, , li t ''V " ' lMrC '"-n .b" Mill of f..l along the road,
have found t Imposslbl,. to handle the r,,,,,,,,,., w.lKl)s ,,ave had to haul
rii-h of work and every avallabb. inc. w.., p. tl i on duly h.twrci hue
ehuiiie and every man a-.xperlenci-d In and Caas lirandes. and In man places
till- handling or ib -pilch . 1 f rreight Is ' " N tiea-essai- to hull Hie watet also
being lined and plif to work here. .The water lllters putrhiiM-d III New Yank
News was recelnd to. night that ad- ' bao not jet arrived and t'lere Is dan
dltlon.il Infantry would leoiighl In i ' P''f from tpliu-. inn all of the men
f.n the nirsi.e of keeping o'ii tile Inns "bo have been am botitei dill for any
air ciiiiimunlcatloii, and iiniiei s are begm. 1 time have b.eii 1.10. ulated -villi Hie t.
nllig to wonder ir th. Ann ric.ins hale plio'd prophylaxis.
g'' a-ii up lie Idea of i-,i,ibllshlim a new ' 'wing to the absent e of bathing fa
supply Ii.kc at HI l-.isi and shipping Ihtle- for the m. n theic s a rear lamoug
fiKi, oier tlie Mexico Northwestern Itall- mm ..Mlccis thai the typhus 111.1 bleak
road Tin- declston to send more to..p.s out with the up; araucc of "veim'n
here is ik.l,e, upon a- ,m indication that among the snldleis. Typhus 's kniiivn to
Hi. Amr. .run lioieniinciit does not ex-'exl-t In northern Mexico. To avoid It
pect 1 1 Secure pel mission to use tlie rail-j as much as possible outers have been
road (Issued hy lifn. Pershing to hlllei the
American troops, partlciilnrly the In men 01 Hie open air and keep them
faiitry. have suftered inin-h from the away tiom the houses nf nativep.
nuiecji Into Mexico, acisiidlug to trans- I Tin- Ilrst sctloii of the Second Cal
led t men and men or tlia- Sixth and Six. 1 alt v fmm l-'oit Klhiiii Allen. Vernioin,
teenth Infantiy leglments who haw- n
turna-d lu re for one purpose an .mother.
O'le cause of HllTerillg is Hie -eli-lo
heat during the da.i and the sa-icc told
of tlie night. Slime oltlcers of these two
regiments despatched a man back to III
Paso a tenia for lamb's wool lined
coats to slea-p In.
The retiirii'ng so'ilieis assert that the
sun Is null up a short tlnia. In the morn
ing until II has the sand burning hot ami
lllelr feel blister .Is .1 tesilll ai the .011
stant inarth oier the hut Kiound. Tho
; r7 .
. -.
unxlnus that Hie .Mexican people should
IIIIXIO'.IS
un.lelxt.
scrunuh.
Mexico.
land that It desiies to obsene
ous respect for thu Mivelelglit of
This same piofmtnd consliler.illon for
the sensibilities or Ihe Mexicans cbai-
acterUed the meeting or the Cabinet,
which It Is said was disposed to meet
any reasonable raspicst which Carraiua
i..lirht make regarding recliiioc.il iiinl-
l,.,.. tt i.n ,nlnni i.v lu.il. ii.tt.-ri..
1 ments.
. .i.., .., ,
tiniti.,1-- in 111. ,t int-i 11 ti 11 . i .-1 ii.iiein
constantly Impressed with 'he need
, .,,,.- , , 11, ...,,i, t.. .,i. ... ,a
in- Mexluns. and for Hi.it in.son H
onesi fm- use of ihe railroad has ..t noiare safe and Ihat thn city is uiilel.
unit- assumed the haractcr of a demand. I
I Coutllcllng reports to the Slat" and
war depirtnu tits concerning .ondltlons!
In bonier towns mini. It ilhliculi to
gnuce the bonier situation from this and
Consul nt Nogales leporled continued
unlet and th .fhsence of any ills'urb -
. ances. Thu announcement follows!
I "The Depxrtment Is In receipt of
sand almost nils their h..es and makes
walking xtM! more uncomfortable.
The airly eianlngs are reported as
pleasant, but !fore midnight It Ix
severely co. and Hie pair of blankets
lurried by each man aie not enough to
keep them warm, rolled up am tho
siviiiiu, as ini' saoti cia.is on as rapiuiy
i,i niKOL as ii gets noi unuer inc rays
aif the sun during the day
The hor(es of the cavalry have stif
feted as much as the men of the infantry
from the hot si lids, and many of therii
have gone lame.
-Men of all arms of the service are
suffering from the cold at night, and the
cavalrymen who have penetrated Into
the mountains further south utnl at
greater anionic than the infantrymen
are Iiclleved to lie suffering more than
the Infantrymen, who are still In the
Owing to the Inability of tran-port
wagons to kaep up with the men, all
have had some hxrd experiences ax a
result of an liistilllcleiit uuautltv of food.
The Culled Males army lacks the ,ook -
liu faeillti.s of the i:uro-an armies,
an. i me men nave nan io ao mucn oi i
their own cooking.
Itiuzaiott, the Inventor of the ltuz
7.,'icott Held stove now In use 111 tile
army, has constructeil a "Held kitchen"
which c.ui Ik- carried with Hie trooiu.,
i " oa-ll is lili-.v Dcing lesieu na'ra on un.-
,.,i i... ...i... ,.,... This
'onltlt e:m' I ier!...l .,1, ,.n 1. lilnmnl.ll..
ciias-is or .itawn t.y mules or nor.-as.
'he .unk pn paring his food as the Jour-
1 nr' maiic.
CimiL nn Hay's March.
No nich arrangement now obtains In
' the American arms, however, and all
a-ooklng tnu-t Is- done after .1 da's
march is ended The result was that
much of the .uhHlt'euc on the march
south to Casus liratidex ,-ousMed mil
of camieil meats, with hot coffa-a- for
breakfast and at other mi'.als when Hu
man had time to prepue i. Fresh l-ef
was hcciiriij from some plaa-es throiiu-h
air.inL-einents made in advance in III
t I a-.i with ranch owner-.
.u-rlvisl In Colnmlius early Ibis inornlii?,
slid seien trains ate scheduled lo amie
hotnly bearing the reiiialtidei air the Sec
ond Caialry and the Fifth Cavalr,
which 1. divided beiwcen Fort Mer,
Va. . Fort Sliirldan, III., and Fort ly-ai-cult
01 th, Kan.
The last siiiiailron of the Thliti-entn
Cal.ilrt enleied Mex'.o rroni Cobiinbiia
sli-iil.i allariioon. leaving Hi" Twelttb
. ..' .. . .... . .. ... ....
'aialry now ill clup. The Twelfth. It
Is umlcist I, will go forward as the
... . 1.
r-ei-i.no anil 1 0111 unite,
Chilians linn the tiu.ks. Tlie-. ,.
telegram dated March "rt from .Sngales nlllcuil lni'01 .., 1 d,,iir.., donlen ,-
staling that no disonbT has b-in re. Colunil.iis itnhmn ,.mg 'or .niin'
ported there mcsdice dated March ,, , ,,,, ,.,,, ,,,.,.,,,
' r r ...... ,1,1.
i.een nn 111-1111 nan, c wn.iieier .11 1 11.11
I't.n.-. -ii.'i .i.iit-ii, is a.e ii'ij i-i.roi 11 aim
that 110 tumble Is anticipated,
lloraler Unlet, Is lleport.
"Telegraphic advices dau-d March SO
from III Paso ..late that condition-' are
M'I'y ipilel 011 both sides of the elver.
Adlhes dated March P.I from I'liraiigo
f!,iml telegi.iiiii.d from Moiiteiev on Hi.
1 Mth Mate tnat Americans at Duranto
though tl eie Is s.il.l lo be a shortage ol
f'M"' supplies
"Tclegraplilc adil.es datrd Mirch 2o
from PHdr.i- NVki.is slate that ra.lway
iincliaiilcs. assistants and the general
from tin west coast, conditions
- ported to ! unlet a't Topolnbainpo and
IHu.iMtiax and lclnlt The .Ituallon
at Tamplcu has nut changed.'
Bandit Chief Is in Sore
Straits, .Mormon Scouts
Report.
BEATEN WHEN HE
TRIES TO MAKE PASS
Hurled Back Toward Ad
vancing Americans Near
Nnmiquipa.
TROOPERS It HOURS
A DAY IN SADDLE
Lieut. Bowen Injured hy
Fall From Airship Air
Conditions Bud.
Caxas C.msni:s, by wlreb.-- to
Columbus. N. M.. ..March SI. Willi the
tightening, of the rot-dim iiroiin.l N'lllo
to tbo south :i report reached G n.
lVrxhlng to-day that bandit i at
tempted to break the clrflo of elevl
at NamlqulpH but were driven back:
into a imp by n Carr.ur..i force und'T
I.uIh llerer.s.
ItaportM were received from u.ithe
spies and Mormon scouts to the af
fect that the Villa band Is In s-orv
need of liorse nnd that his (Jcncr.V.s
I Hraciimontf-w nnd Scrvanta s. w.-te c
patched on raids to get aorne.
Ucn. I'crs'hlng Is in coust.ui' com
munication with units of the ct'.uii
pa.sfclnc movement of Atn-nciitt
troops, all of which urn (driving for ti '
honor of Ilrst contact with tho band:
force.
Condition of men nnd horxen ,1, ,i...
lachi-d oolumim Is reported good. TUa
troops arc learning to eat dried Mux,
can beef una! live off tin- country VI,,.
VilliNta. Ilorsa-s arc now lnrdii"d
and aciilinatiil, capable of ptir.Miit .ia
xoon n.s tho locution of the Villa :V
i s ib'tcrnilned.
I.ieut. Iluweii, injiif.il avla ., ,
improving. AiTopInnrs co'. ir.ti
M-vitlng illgiits oier in. Mint., his to iii.-.
muitli, with iisultN of r-coimo. .-.PL-kept
secret. Motor lorries brii.-ltc-supplUs
for the .i. ro uiuulrnii arr,ce-4
, utter two days trip overland
"SAFKTY niiST" HIS
PLAX, SAYS FUXSTOS'
Admits
He Ueil for
I'llll U
l.airue I'lin-e."
nxiNin, Tex., March
A'
Futpton wax iiie.ion,., lo.d.iy
now man troop., he has asked Hi
Wir
Depaitnieiit to send him.
"A fan ) lame li.tve," w,,s his , iV.
Tile Hnieial s.nd he did n.c a ,c". .,11
attack, but lie wanted to pi. "saf.t;
111 st" and lake 11.1 chances.
.The time s.ll,ldons of the Clf, .
airy which ban. .,en ordered t
t.le
front widely n-atta rcl, line ,s
Fort Mer, Virginia, a second Is
it
Ion Slnrd. 111, I, In ab.nn twe-i,
" :1h;' "f Clung,,; tne lb f, I Is !
l'o. l la .111 nil 01 all, Ixausax. I'lla -e 1 l'v
lll.llle up t ie twelve Houps f t,o reel
Itietll
Tin- iiumb-r of 1 Oops .1, r,,. .-oinl-en,
Departiui in ,i:n 10 Mex.co 1101 juj ,.
ppitixuu ilelt .111, 1. no. t was .,u, I ' ',i .
tha'1.1 .1:1 the..- . itbe. an- mi'iii, ,.f
the border or iiimiednilel) on the ..o. .
il"i Si.itie.td fii, u Iti-.o'i'iisulle -M-.t-
W.ll I
Theie ire In round ininib. rs .l.lKif,
hers hi Hie lower Hi.. Hiamle V,(ti. ,'
but Ha 11. I'uiistoii said Hie.-e ioii. ih,i i
nn.ied I rum Hie patrol iluli Tliatefnt
the i.'.pie.t ,or troops imans Hies w
l- btought Horn niiii r depai tiiicni,'.
A lepori tiom Hie iMaiieimaurr 1,1
Columbus to -,irt s.im Houston u.U,f u,0
nn. lenient of (tucks and wagon traniH m
oi'iaii. 11 siateil that wa
.'11:011 ti.'toi v.. 1
. ' "' . ' "nil III, it ,nio
will K I I'lUpall ,Nn.
a OIIMsllllK Ot W 1 pi .
seven lieavi cat-
. had gone Miuihwari"
1. .' . '
'- - had gone
11... a,.... ..
.1' auto tru k 1 1. nip n
but Hi.it s'.nn ...... 1. .,'
Is-en ilelaiid In missing pans mr
wagon beds or lu.xes
toria He w in. The 1
w el e it mi 1, ,i
,,, , ,,.,. (. llM, ,1,,,
Mill w is thai 11,1,
WU.11 lerinastcr was 1 i.nip. lli d ,! nipp'.
blankeis, eots, tents ami nihil- su.-ii
llin.s 11111II his sinie was ch.,ii.ed.
I icpiu luieiil hi ailiiiartei s ha-.ii.il heat .-J
Hied fioni Hen p, ishms: slm e .Momj-, .
11 ght Hen I'lin.ioii would urn inlii, t
1 omniuiilcation had been cm nf,' and a ';
plllllia'd some del, IV Cllocl III' thu lie. I
llelltlll bieaklllg of one ol the lllegmt',
'"'"moiil . a I a "hiizcr
. "K 'b'mnu-e. howciei, was M, m
'''u'' 'l'''" ' o-ili l and In a short time
1 h" "'' "" ' '"' limit ha
'"alcd smuo uncasinei . in army cirrb-
,"'" '
-
VILLA IS- DKFKATKD.
lien, Pcrslilng I ootlrois Itetmrt aif
t iirejina X h-tor
1.1 Paso. Tex, M.ii 'h -Hriei ive.
b ss mi-s-.igi-'s ii i, nma me boidn to.d.ii
Finding soma place souib
r c.i-
it . nn Mi ico, reporting thu
iiimma to, teat of Villi yesterday by li.i
Cai inn.i forces "near 'ill Valla-," wa
as
the mil news that came to tho border
m i
Lb V
IBS
II
IM
K
E II
