mmmmii nwnn.i "wiJyiSiS??
- & 'if- r"T"j tT t"-'
FINANCIAL EDITION
iHtixntx
NIGHT
EXTRA
ittienmn
NIGHT
EXTRA
lrV03D, 1I.-NO. 103
PHILADELPHIA, WiEDMSDAY, MAltOII 22, 15)10.
CortmoiiT, 1010, si Tits Pdbuo Limes Courier.
PRICE OHE CENT
1
Kf
FEARS FOR U. S. EXPEDITION
INTO MEXICO GROW AS ADDED
FORCES RUSH TO VILLA HUNT
Communication With Pershing's Col-
Ill umns Cut Off,
H.
Uiasn vvrun
Expected
K
Carranzistas, as Well as Villistas, Believed Menace to
L American Troops Two Aviators, Lost in Desert,
Probably Victims of Bandits 2700 Cavalry
men Will Join Invading Troops
COLUMBUS, N. M.f March 22. No word was received hero up to noon
' today of the two missing lieutenants of tho United States aeroplane corps
fwhowent into Mexico from here. Wireless communication with the American
expeditionary forces, which wns interrupted yesterday afternoon, was restored
taUy. Several code messages were
Pershing's headquarters.
If ,.
rK ... .
ft Additional troops today aro rusnmg townra mcxico iu um uiu mitum.-.
i upedition sent to "got" Francisco Villa, Mexican outlaw chieftain.
'& The reinforcements, 2700 cavalrymen, have been dispatched in response
t fcn nnncal from General Funston for added strength to the Pershing details.
' Detachments from Fort Meyer, Va.,
ire on tho way, following rush orders.
r-nrnl Vnnston's anneal Is variously interpreted. At San Antonio
I there is n growing fear thnt the Carranza Government will fail the United
instates. Whether or not it is treacnery, cannot, oe sum. mu upniiim -ucy-iia
f thai Carranza will not be able to control his forces.
r Mention of tho "dangerously thin" lines of communication give rise to
; fears that not only Villistas, but Carranzistas menace tho American columns
advancing into Mexico.
Toinm-nnh wires between the Pershing expeditionary force and tho border
have been cut and the wireless communication ceased late yesterday. How
ever the wireless was restored to Columbus today and meagre reports said
I that' the United States troops were closing in on Villa and his bands in the
Lake Babicora region.
Villa and his Danus in me lano duuiu iuKiuu.
Whether or not Villa has gained tho mountain passes, as was reported
yesterday, has not been determined definitely.
Two American aviators, Lieutenants wuns unu uorreii, ure sun iiussuik
and aro now belioved to have fallen victims to Mexican bandits, following
mishaps to the craft on tho way to join the Pershing forces. The accident
to Lieutenant Bowen adds to tho general disappointment on tho showing of
the aviation corps.
ADDED U. S. FORCES HASTEN
-
TO AID PERSHING ADVANCE
F
WASHINGTON, Mnrch 22. General
ivTi.Mn'n iircnnt mil for border rein-
tlprcements met Instant response today.
From nil sections or tno country iroup
trains were speeding toward tho Inter
national boundary. That further rein
forcements may bo necessary was the
opinion of high army oiricors. Tho new
forces consist of 2700 cavalrymen.
At 4 o'clock this morning Colonel Wil
der, with four troops of tho 6th Cavalry, nt
Fort Myer, Va., just across the Potomac
from Washlncton. left on a special train
lth right-of-way orders for Columbus,
K. M. Other squadrons ot cavniry irom
Wyoming. Fort Leavenworth, Kan., unu
Fort Sheridan, III., and tho 24th Infantry
from Fort D, A. Russell, Wye, were also
on their way.
The request from Funston for the Fort
5 Hrer reinforcements reached here last
tvenlnf. In a pouring rain tho cavalry
men. crack trooners and experts In the
5S monkey and other drills, who have frc-
CuenUy exhibited before President Wilson
tnd Congressmen, entrained In a special
tain of four sections. Their cars had
Uta on a sidetrack In readiness ever since
the American punitive expedition was or
itni. '
Dispatches from General Funston also
Indicated that General Pershing's expe
dition was near Villa's fighting line.
While CarranzlRta trnnns are reported
1 tlready fighting with Villistas, In a run
KBlng retreat, the American forces were
K tin reported closing In on what officials
nope may prove a trap.
. Reports that all communication between
Columbus and Pershing's command has
Men cut disturbed ofllcials. although It
M believed this was due to military dlf-
"cuines and not treachery.
Urgent steps were being taken to re
plenish Pershing's supplies. Ofllcials ad-
v IT . uitieBa more (supplies wcio
E riven Pershing within a few days a serl
K JM situation would be faced by the Amer-
rcuiiiuii.
FEARED TWO U. S. AVIATORS
ARE VICTIMS OF OUTLAWS
EL PASO. To .. Man.li V.varv hnllr
,that passed today without news of Lieu
Continued on Pace Seven, Column One
IFIELDER VETOES MEASURE
TO END GRADE CROSSINGS
AUo Rejects Bill to Create State Ag
riculture Department
TRENTflM XT T HTm.nl. VAnaa
91 Senator Gaunt's bllj for" the "creation of
new State nAnartmont nf A trrfnlilflira
lii ' "8 fierce grade crossing abo
Mion measure were sent to the Senate to
V by Governor Fielder.
f - uovernor also disapproved or the
IPfMte bill 155, which would amend the
irommlsslon government act by requiring
E' e'ty clerk to publish a list of candl
"'M three days before the election. The
ISf"10 holds that the present act dl
Nti;,1r the Publication of the list Imrae-
Jt UROn the expiration of the time
por tiling petitions la the better.
.THE WEATHER
p FORECAST
'P PhiladelDhia and vieinitu
KSi" ornm tonight followed by
mWri Thuraday partly tfoudy and
P9Wer; northeast to northwest gales.
i r aetails see page 6.
P LOST Am -onTT-w-nj
P&WrJ-t .wm"i
Sin lVr"t . nM-niled. we.
IuiT.V t,Hwatnut at fr:
ntlcmau' watch.
fpilaa n hfmit Ul
I UiCih" .V ,, .J'Sca uroaa Bt. tjtatian in a
r-2 urJ' t1,"" Suruce. lUward It return4
J- W. J. ' "ral It-. Cam-
,Wln irom Uroail Bt. Station In a
?oca!nl7wr' w?tfiif was sa Aiar. v.
i-Jilwr niay
i"
IVtti
B moiwyj i 3, Lelgar Oil,
" &! M9M tymSsU s ru IT
But Reports Say
uumws is
Hourly
received, prcsumnuiy irom ucncrui
A 1 If ...I.. 1. f Jt i.lA A tMAMinflM
Illinois, Kansas and Wyoming already
BIG WINDSTORM
DERAttS TRAINS
IN WEST; 5 DEAD
Heavy Damage in North
ern Illinois and
Indiana
FOLLOWED BY BLIZZARD
CHICAGO, March 22. Driven by a 48
mlio wind with tho freak combination of
snow, thunder, lightning, rain and sleet,
one of the fiercest Mnrch storms In the
history of Chicago swept this city, north
ern Illinois and northern nnd centrnl In
diana today, resulting In five deaths, two
here, one at Marlon, one at Montpeller,
and one nt Logansport, Indiana. ,
Tho wind whipped Lako Michigan Into
a fury of mountainous waves, demoralized
all rail and wire .traffic, ripped huge sign
boards from their moorings, tore down
high-power electric wires, and demolished
many plate glass windows. The heaviest
property damage was inflicted by the
storm lato last night in Indiana.
A cyclone struck Logansport, Ind.,
shortly after midnight and the latest re
port from there said that one man was
killed and many other persons were In
jured. Wires to Logansport 'were down
today.
Advices reaching here from Hartford
City and Montpeller, Ind., tell of thou
sands of dollars loss duo to the storm
of last night. One girl Is reported killed
near Montpeller. The Cup and Metal
"Works, the Steel Plant nnd the Jackson
Shovel and Tool Works of Montpeller
aro total wrecks, business blocks wer.a un
roofed and the Christian Church was
badly damaged.
One man Is dead, many persons are In-
4tla.s.l n nil ttinllD.nila n 4rtll..B.. I . .1 ...
.Jsu H,u i,tuoctu.3 ut uwim. a fl UUflllfgQ
(was done by a cyclone which hit the vicin
ity of Marlon, Ind., early today, wrecking
several houses and blowing a southbound
Clover Leaf passenger train oiT the track
at Hanfleld, a few miles from Marlon.
None of the passengers was killed, but
several were Injured.
Silas Williams, 75 years old, a farmer,
was killed by a falling chimney, Mrs.
Jennie 12. Carter and Marie Pulaski were
badly hurt.
At Ottawa, Ind., a freight train of eight
cars was blown from a siding across the
main line of the Illinois Central, blocking
tracks south of Kankakee, 111. Hail stones
as large as eggs were reported.
In Chicago lightning started several
email fires. A heavy snow, blown by a
fierce wind, swept the city today,
CLOUDBURST CAUSES FLOODS
IN WESTERN PART OF STATE
Thousands of Dollars' Loss When
' Streams Overflow
PITTSBURGH, March 22. A heavy
cloudburst in western Pennsylvania last
night caused thousands of dollars dam
age. Indian Creek, near Connellsvllle,
overflowed lt banks and washed out a
large Bectlon of Baltimore and Ohio tracks.
Thj flood swept away the tracks at Dun
bar One hundred and ninety-five miners
were Imperiled at Brownsville when the
dam of the reservoir of the Italney Coke
Company threatened to give way. By
making a breach, danger was averted.
One hundred and fifty families were
driven from their home In the lower
part of Unlontown. when Bed Stone
Creek overfliwed. Weet Mala street and
tho Baltlmoie and, Ohio stations are under
elsht Xet of urate.
WILSON DENIES GERMANY ASKED
U. S. TO INITIATE OFFERS OF PEACE
WASHINGTON, March 22. President Wilson today authorized an
unequivocal denial of the Washington dispatch printed in the New York
livening Post yesterday which said that Germany had made overtures
.? lc, United States to initiate pence offers. Secretary Tumulty made
tho following announcement:
President Wilson authorized an unequivocal denial of tho
story appearing in a metropolitan newspaper with regard to
peace; that the story is untrue in every detail and there is no
foundation for the inferences drawn in the story.
Tho President was much disturbed over the story nnd expressed
belief that its publication might prove very embarrassing to the country
and to him.
The New York Evening Post asserted that Germany had suggested
to the United States that the time was ripe for the initiation of pence
proposals and that Ambassador Gerard had been asked by von Bethmann
Hollwcg, the German Chancellor, to postpone his vacation while negotia
tions were under consideration.
Count von Bcrnstorff, the German Ambassador, said that ho knew
nothing of any peace proposals emannting from Berlin.
PENROSE SPEECH
"UNAUTHORIZED,"
SAYS STEEL MAN
Bethlehem Company Offi
cial Also Repudiates
Oliver's
ARMOR PLATE PROPHECY
Grace Says It Would Take Gov
ernment Five Years to
Organize Plant
Ru a Rtaff Correspondent
WASHINGTON, March 22. Senator
Pcnroso was not authorized by tho Beth
lehem Steel Company to say that prlvato
manufacturers propose to boost tho prlco
of armor plate $200 a ton If tho Govern
ment decides to begin Its manufacture.
Neither was Senator Oliver authorized
by that company to make tho statcmont
that there would be nn Increase in tho
present prlco of armor plate In caso the
hill for nn $11,000,000 armor plato fac
tory, passed by tho Senato last night,
received favorable "action In tho House.
This was tho testimony given by n. C.
Grace, president of tho Dethlehem Com
pany, when ho appeared today beforo
tho House Naval Affairs Committee In
opposition to tho Tillman bill for Gov
ernment manufacture of armor plate.
Mr. Grace said that If tho Houso passed
the bill it would close tho three prlvato
plants, representing an Investment of $20,
000.000. "Tho question should not be considered
In tho light of advantage to the manufac
turer," said Mr. Grace, "but for tho In
terest of tho country and as a contribu
tion to preparedness."
"WOULD TAKE U. B. FIVE YDAnS.
Mr. Grace repeated Ills offer to furnish
a third ot tho armor for shlp3 under tho
five-year building program for 39B a ton
for sldo nrmor, as compared with $125
a ton now.
"If tho bill for a Government plant Is
passed," said Mr. Grace, "I shall rec
ommend unqualifiedly that we provide
for tho amortization of tho plant by tho
tlmo tho Government begins manufactur
ing nrmor."
"How long would it tako the Govern
ment to build nnd start operation of an
armor-plate plant?" ho was nsked.
"Flvo years would be n minimum time,"
ho said. "If during that tlmo tho United
States should become Involved In trouble,
It can havo our maximum output nt its
own price. We will run our plant 24
hours a day, nnd seven days u week.
That offer applies not only to our nrmor
plate factory but to all of our factories.
First of nil, we are patriotic."
Chairman Padgett brought out the
fact that tho aggregate capacity of tho
three prlvt.to plantH In the United States
is 32,000 tons a year, the Hethlehem sup
plying 12,000 tons, the Carnegie 10,000 and
the Mldvalo 10,000.
"Senator Oliver," said Mr. Grace, when
asked about the statement, that the private
manufacturers would not raise tho pres
ent price of armor even though the
Government does decide to begin to man
ufacture, "may have had authority to
speak for the Mldvale, but he had no
authority to speak for us "
"It has been reported." said Mr. Pad
gett, "that Senator Penrose told the Sen
ate Naval Committee that If this bill
passes the private manufacturers will
Continued on I'oeo 1'our, Column One
12 OIL WELLS ON FIRE;
LOSS IS $1,000,000
Spectacular Flames Do Great
Damage in Drumbright
Fields of Oklahoma
TULSA, Okla., March 22. Fire Is rag
Inn today In the oil fleld3 near Drum
brlzht Twelve wells are sending columns
of name Into the air. piercing the mountain
of th(ck black smoke that swept upward
from the burning field.
Twenty-four derricks have been de
stroyed and oil men stood by watching
the lire, helpless to check Its progress.
Damage to the field already was e..
mated at $1,000,000 and It was said the
total loss would be much larger.
CANDID PARROT STARTS FIGHT
Bird Said Its Master Was "Drunk
Again"
A carrot has brought no end of trouble
to John Mears. of 1918. BgnlU atreet,
appears that Wears spends considerable
tlmo at the House ot Correction. And
for thlB the parrot Is much to blame, de-
CTSlongeaUme ago th. bird learned to
aav "Here comes John, drunk again."
John Bald It was the result of hU wife's
teaching "" Mears sald John beat
her when the bird criticised him.
Magistrate Price sent Mears to the
House of Correction for a year today.
Two Wrecked Autos Found
Two wrecked automobiles were found
bv Upper Darby and Yeadon police
vestenlTy. and it is believed that both
were stolen. The Upper Darby police
found a car near Cardlngton, which bore
license number 10682. Pennsylvania. The
Yeadon police, found the other car In tho
Greenland cemetery. It bad license, tag
HBfc IT.
GOVERNMENT NET
SPREAD HERE FOR
TOBACCO FIRMS
Revenue Agents Plan Ar
rests in $100,000,000
Fraud Probe
ALLEGE CIGAR BOX TRUST
Forty-five Warrants Issued by
U. S. Commissioners Lona'
and Edmunds
Tho nationwide war by the Government
against the nllegcd $100,000,000 tobacco
fraud shifted to this city today when a
small army of United States Internal rev
enue collectors and other agents arrived
In the city to direct the serving of 45
warrants for Philadelphia tobacco deal
ers. Flfty-flvo men connected with tho In
ternal Itcvenuo Department, headed by
K. C. Johnson, solicitor of tho depart
ment, nrrlved at the Federal Building
shortly beforo noon, and after a secret
conferenco with Collector Lcdcrer, began
their work. Wholesale arrests nro ex
pected beforo nightfall.
The men named In tho warrants nro ac
cused ot defrauding tho Government out
of taxes on cigars, cigarettes and tobacco.
Sensational disclosures were made In tho
Investigation In Now York, which began
Monday, and It was estimated that
throughout tho nntlon tho Government
had been defrauded out of $100,000,000.
Tho warrants were Issued by United
States Commissioners Long nnd Edmunds
In anticipation of tho arrival of tho Gov
ernment agents and ns quickly as possible
after their arrival the men scattered to
various parts ot tho city with written
orders.
Tho strictest Bocrcoy was maintained by
tho oftlclaltf, whoso atldden appearance In
a body nt the Federal Building caused a
rlpplo of excitement. Among them nro
the Internal revenue ngents who "cleaned
up" Now York: others aro from Pitts
burgh, Washington. Brooklyn nnd other
cities, where. It Is said, similar campaigns
will be waged. They were joined by
Deputy Marshals James J. Kenny nnd Ed
ward P. McCaffrey, of this city.
Fourfold charges are cited In the war
rants. They nre refilling cigar boxes, re
moving cigars from premises not properly
boxed and stamped, failure to keep on ex
hibition tho registration number and fail
ure to keep proper record of various sales
made. Tho first charge, It Is said, comes
as a result ot tho unearthing of a "cigar
box trust," which, for tho last five years
has boon systematically robbing tho Gov
ernment by collecting empty cigar boxes
from hotels, clubs, cigar stores nnd other
sources and refilling them with cigars.
No Intimation wns given that "graft"
dlhclosures, similar to those In New York,
were expected here. In New York It was
alleged that for the last five yenrs to
bacco dealers havo bought "protection"
from Government olllclals. Nearly 100
arrests were mnde In that city and most
ot the dealers accused were held In $1500
ball each.
Hurt in Leaping From Hotel Fire
SCItANTON, Pa., March 22. Ten per
sons, seven men and three women, had
to jump from second and third story win
dows of the Hotel Mnhon, nt Olyphant,
near here, early today, to escape death
In a. fire that quickly destroyed the struc
ture, Several of the inmates were injured
In Jumping to a, place ot safety.
:. .'
U
CLAYTON CULBERTSON
BOY HIT BY AUTO DIES
Driver of Truck Rearrested and Will
Face Charge of Causing Vic
tim's Death Today
Six-year-old J. Clayton Culbertson, of
1633 North Edgewood Btret, Is dead In
the West Philadelphia Homeopathic Hos
pital of Injuries received taat Monday
when he was run down by an auto truck.
James Kane, of 2033 Summer street, driver
of the truck, will be arraigned ' before
Magistrate Stevenson today in the 6 1st
and Thompson streets police station,
charged with causing his death.
The accident happened at 63d street and
Lansdowne venue- Clayton rzn across
the street and was knocked down by the
heavy truck, one of Wanamaker'a. Kane
picked the boy up and took him to the hos
pital and then urrndcred to the police.
He vu held Jn 1300 ball to await thq re
suit it the boy's lajurle Tpday h,e was
rearrested. The boy sustained irac
Ure ot tie, s'-vull and other Injuries,
! -" f
l "-
ALLIED AIRMEN
KILLED 200 IN
BELGIAN RAID
Attack on Zeebruggee by
Big Squadron Takes
Heavy Toll
350 PERSONS WOUNDED
Amsterdam Says Raiders'
Bomb Fire Proved Effective.
Victims Mostly Soldiers
AMSTntlDAM, March 22.
Tho grent aerial attack on Keebrugge
Monday morning by n fleet of British,
French and Belgian aeroplanes cnused tho
death of 200 persons nnd spread heavy
damngo nt tho German naval base, ac
cording to reliable reports received from
tho Dutch frontier today.
A number of the CJermnns' largo coast
guns were destroyed by tho bombs dropped
from the aeroplanes. In addition to those
killed, 350 wcro wounded.
Moit of tho casualties Inflicted by tho
Allies' bombs was nmong the Clcrman
sailors nt Zcebruggc, but a number of
soldiers were killed or Injured nt Houltndo
(Houttavo), whero the German aviation
camp was badjy damaged. Se-cn hangars
containing new aeroplanes that had just
como from tho German factories wcro
smnshed nnd their contents completely
ruined.
All reports of the raid reaching here
ngreo that tho attacking aviators made
tho most brilliant flight that has marked
the war. Though flying high above Zec
bruggo and Houltado to cscapo the volleys
fired by the German nntlalrcraft guns,
tho nlllcd aviators nevertheless threw
their bombs with careful aim.
GERMANS POUND
FOE'S LEFT WING
IN MEUSE WOODS
Guns Sweep Hill 304 and
Avoeourt Forest on
French Flank
VAUX AGAIN UNDER FIRE
THE HAGUE, Mnrch 22. Emperor
.Wlliam has returned to the Verdun
front. Berlin advices say that the final
assnult on the French fortress is
about to begin.
PATHS. March 22.
No Infantry nctlon was launched by tho
Germans during tho night on the Vrnlun
front, but they opened a violent nrtlllcry
bombardment In tho region of Mnlancourt.
cast of Hill No 3(M. It Is apparently the
Germans' Intention to nttempt tho capture
of this height In order that they may fully
dominnto Dead Man's Hill, where the
French havo thus far successfully resist
ed. Tho ofllclal communique Issued this
afternoon says:
West ot tho Sleusn there was a
violent nrtlllcry duel east of Hill No.
301. The bombardment was partic
ularly violent against that position
and Avoeourt. Hast of tho Meuso
there wn on Intense bombardment In
the region of Vaux nnd Damloup.
No Infantry action occurred during
tho night. Tho night was quiet on tho
rest of the trout. '
Tho same prodigality of hmmn life
that characterized tho German attacks
north and east of Verdun marks tho fight
ing In Mnlancourt Forest, northwest ot
the French fortress.
According to tho military critic of tho
Kcho do Paris, tho Germans' success at
Avecourt represnted nn advance of ap
proximately mile over a front ot a
mite and one third.
"Tho capture of French positions In
Avecourt Wood Is not regarded seriously
by the War Office," says tho Kcho do
Paris today. "The position. wero strongly
organized and It was only nt the prlco of
the most Intense and destructive bombard
ment, followed by -tho ruthless squander
ing of lives, that tho crown I'rince was
atjle to make headway. The character of
tho Avecourt position has no tactical
value In itself. Its only worth Is that
It may prove a stepping btono to a subse
quent success."
Lieutenant Colonel Ttoussel, tho famous
military expert, predicts that the next
move of the Germans northwest of Ver
dun will be to try to capture some of the
dominating hills that encircle Avecourt
wood, so that their positions will not be
menaced by French artillery posted on
these eminences,
"If It Is the object of the Crown Prince
to endanger our position on I.o Mort
Homme (Dead Man HUD by flanking
attacks, ha must push on eastward and
storm Hill No. 301, between Mulnncourt
and Ksnes," says Colonel Houssel. "By
the capture of Hill 304 he could dominate
with his artillery our position on Dead
Man Hill. Until this Is accomplished the
left flank of our Verdun defenses is not
menaced In the slightest by the new of
fensive launched by tho Germans on the
edge of the Argonne,"
THIRSTY STEER INVADES
' DOWNTOWN BAIU1003I
jr
Customers Flee; Animal, Lassoed by
Policemen, Breaks Rope and Escapes
A frowsy looking steer with rings In
his nose and his tongue hanging out
dropped In the saloon of Joseph Fagmalla,
at the northeast corner of 8th and Fulton
streets, for a drink. Several men were
leaning against the bar In various stages
of happiness. Some had evidently
promised that they would swear off drink
ing during Lent and they mistook the steer
for gatan himself when they took a glance
at Its towering horns. Several left by
way of the windows, others ran down the
cellar and the bartender eelzed a mallet
and used the bar for a, trench.
The steer emitted a bellow and was set
ting Itself to clean out the place when
it was pulled out backward by Policemen
IsoU and Bluebond, who lassoed It with
a rope. When It reached the street the
animal gave the cops the laugh, broke
the rope and scampered away again.
The steer was one of a herd which broke
out of the abattoir of Benjamin Harris,
at SIS Moore street The animals scat
tered to all parts of the city.
QUICK NEWS
MAYOR AND CABINET DISCUSS LOAN BILL
Mayor Smith held n tluee-hour conferenco on the loan bill today
with all his Directors nnd Thinncc Committee Chairman Gaffney. No
one would say nt the end of the conference what hnd been specifically
done, exce'it to say generally that final demands of the different de
aitment hids were debated. All loan bill Items, except the transit
item, will "jo taken tip by the Finance Committee tomorrow afternoon
nt 1 o'clo-I".
BRITISH HAVE CAPTURED 127 U-BOATS, IS REPORT
W.f'HIi'GTON', OTaich 22. One hundred and twenty-seven sub
mariner; have been cnptuied by the British navy since the outbrealt of
the liuiopc.ii) war, accoidiug to iufoimatlou from the Biitlsh Ad
miralty which has leached United States coast guaid officcts.
COAL OPERATORS REJECT THREE MORE DEMANDS
The soft coal operators' representatives conferring nt tho Bcllevuo-Stratford
today with tho representatives of tho United Mine Workers of District No. 2,
taking In Central Pennsylvania, rejected three moro demands made upon them,
making a rejection of a total of eight out of nine demands and no decision wan
glen on the ninth demand. It being deferred for further consideration. Tho
demands rejected today were tho demand for nn eight-hour day, tho demand
for a holiday every other Saturdny nnd tho demand for a weekly payday. On
tho question of nn increase In pay of fi per cent on all yardage and dead worle
rates tho decision wns put off for a while.
U-BOAT PERIL HOLDS DUTCH SHIPS IN PORT
LONDON, March 22. An Amsterdam dispatch to the Kxehango Telegraph
Company nays that tho Hollnnd-Amcrika liner Nlcw Amsterdam Is held at llot
terdam owing to submarine perils In the North Sea. "Dutch captains," the dis
patch adds, "refuse, to Ball until measures assuring safety are taken by tho
Dutch Government." A Rotterdam dispatch yesterday reported that tho crow
of tho Uatavler liner had refused to sail owing to fear of submarines. Today'a
dispatch Indicates that the trouble Is spreading.
JERSEY THREAD FACTORY COMING HERE
Permanent employment for nT least 300 men In this city will be provided
In tho near future through tho decision of tho Superior Thread nnd Yarn Com
pany, with offices In New York city, to movo Its plant here from Now Jersey.
Announcement of tho company's intention was mado today through tho Phila
delphia Chamber of Commerce. At the same tlmo, It was said negotiations aro
under way to bring here several lnrgo Western plants which will employ 4000 men.
CORONER TO PUSH CAMPAIGN AGAINST FIREARMS
Coroner Knight will push his campaign against tho indiscriminate salo ot
firearms with rcnowed vigor, ho announced today, as ho has received a com
munication from Chicago which assures him that tho hardware men of this
country would not bo averse to legislation to that end. The letter asserts that
the hardware merchants bclievo all purchasers of deadly weapons should bo
required to tako out licenses. Coroner Knight's campaign was instigated by,
four murders which were committed in this city In the first week of this
month. Ho will nsk Itcpresentatlvo Costcllo to Introduce a bill In Congress
aiming nt a restricted salo of revolvers and guna.
DECLINE TO CONSIDER SALOON REMONSTRANCES
A formal decree declining to consider tho remonstrances filed against saloons'
and bottling places, in Germantown was handed down today by Judges Barratt'
and Davis in the License Court. I-ast Monday tho court heard tho remon
strances and decided that the protests against the renewal of tho licenses of
old saloons in tho Germnntown section wero not well grounded. The Judges,
however, concluded to support their decision from the bench with a written decrco.
SENATE TABLES CALL FOR 50,000 VOLUNTEERS
WASHINGTON, March 22. A resolution authorizing tho President to Issuo
a call for 0,000 volunteers for Moxlcan scrvtco was Introduced in the Sonata
today by Senator Sherman, of Illinois. The resolution was laid on the tablo
after Democratic Senators objected to its Immediate consideration.
AUSTRIANS QUIT CZERNOWITZ. ROME HEARS
LONDON, Mnrch 22. A wireless dispatch from Homo today asserted that
tho Austrlans have abandoned Czernowit, capital of Bukowlua, because, of tho
Russian victories on tho Dnelster. The report is unconfirmed and was received
with reserve here.
BRITISH POSTOFFICE SELLS $67,500,000 BONDS
LONDON, March 22. Chancellor of tho Exchequer McKenna announced
today in Commons that (67,500,000 worth of exchequer war bonds have been
sold to 364,000 purchasers through the postofllce. War certificates amounting
to (5,500,000 havo been sold.
WADSWORTH IS CORONER'S PHYSICIAN 17 YEARS
Dr. William B. Wadsworth is celebrating the 17th anniversary of his entry,
at City Hall as a Coroner's physician today. Since ho has been in office ho has
conducted moro than 5000 autopsies and has won recognition all over tho
United States as an authority on post-mortem examinations. Ho Is also an
expert on firearms, being a retired commissary captain of the 2d Regiment,
National Guard of Pennsylvania.
PROSECUTOR ON BENCH IN MacNEILLE'S COURT
Judge MacNeille, in the Juvenile Court, today established a precedent
when he hod the Assistant District Attorney sit with him on the bench instead
of retaining tho usual position of e. prosecuting ofllcer Inside tho bar inclosure.
The Judge explained that with respect to Juvenile cases the District Attorney
occupies a quasi-Judicial position rather than that of a prosecuting officer solely.
GERMANS GAIN MORE GROUND NORTH OF VERDUN
BERLIN, March 22. German troops have captured moro trenches In tho
Avoeourt Woods, northwest of Verdun, tho War Ofllco announced this after
noon. Three more enemy aeroplanes have been put out of action. Northeast
of Avoeourt tho number of prisoners in the hands of tho Germans has been
increased to 68 officers and 2914 men.
BRITISH AND TURKS TO EXCHANGE MAIMED PRISONERS
LONDON, March 22. Lord Robert Cecil, Minister of Blockade, announced
x Commons today that England and Turkey had agreed to an exchange of
incapacitated prisoners. Negotiations are now under way for an exchange
of combatants,
S n
B. & a PLACES EMBARGO ON CORN
CHICAGO, March 22. The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad has placed aa
embargo on corn shipments to Baltimore.
DUTCH ACCEPT DISAVOWAL OF TUBANTIA SINKING
THE HAGUE, March 22. Tho Dutch Foreign Office has notified the, MIa
ister at Berlin not to demand an investigation of the sinking of the JIalJand
Lloyd liner Tubantja, in view of the ofllclal statement of the German Admiralty
that a German submarine was not responsible for the destruction, of the hltf.
Ofllclal announcement of the action of the Foreign Office waa made today.
CAMDEN GRADE CROSSINGS ABOLISHED
All of the dangerous grade-crossings on the Atco Division of the West 3mm?
and Seashore Railroad in Camden have been eliminated and today all traiu rvm
the seashore and intervening points are using the nev elevated traeim ttm
Camden. The work ot eliminating the grade-crossings was begun abort 10 j'tsr j
ago and the company has spent about (3.000.000 In connection with its eleva'.t
work in Camden. Wher the work was proposed Southeast Camden, wa Jttl5
more, than a fwm U-nd, but now hucdredq of buildings have bea and ara blu&
erected, and the Una pasaca through an entirely- sow community.
