n
VMAVMIU .
WEATHER Pr
Arizona Cloudy
TV
cop
ending
March 15, 26.15.
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 255.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, MARCH 22, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
Funston Asks Washington forEnottgh Men
To Carry Campaign to Favorable Finish
HEADS AIR SCOUTS
IN HUNT FOR VILLA
Two Lieutenants of Aero Squadron Do Not
Report at the Advanced Base of Expedition
f 1 Jk
4m
I
Only After Long Considera-
tion of the Task at Hand
Has Commanding Officer
Asked for More Men.
FIFTH CAVALRY WILL
BE SENT TO BORDER
"Merely Precautionary" is the ,
Manner in Which Leader j
Answered All Questions
Relative to the Demand.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAX ANTONIO, March 21. Gen.
Frederick Funston asked the War De-,
partment today" for more troops to,
sonl i n t r Vpvirn nntv after loTlff POT1- '
sideration of the advisability of con
tinuing the operations against Fran
cisco Villa with the forces now coin
wanded by Gen. Pershing. General
Pershing yesterday suggested that an
other regiment be sent to him and to
day Gen. Funstcn asked the Depart
ment for what he characterized as an
adequate force.
It was announced at Gen. Funston's
headquarters that the Fifth Cavalry, j nays. begun a heavy bombardment of
of which one squadron is at Fort Mey-I t(le village of Esnes. about 8 miles
er, a second at Leavenworth. Kansas,! northwesternly of Avincourf and Hill
and the third at Fort Sheridan. Win-, jjo. 304, which lies about a mile and a
ois, would be brought to the border at ( haif south. The French have recap
once and sent forward aloig Gen,tured a trench and are contesting the
Pershing's line of communication to further advance.
Casas Grandes. To the north and east of Verdun
The' only reason given1 for the the cannonading has been only lnter
strengthening of Gen. Pershing's ! mittent. In the Argonne forest, In
force known by the public generally j Loraine and in upper Alsace the
to be considerably more than 4,000, ' French guns have been active against
was that his field of operations had : the German positions and machine
become so extended that his main! columns. On the river Somme the
line of communication and the subsi-j Germans retreated, but the French
diary lines were much weaker than were immediately driven out.
they should be. There has been fighting in Russia.
'Merely a precautionary move." j The Germans while on Jacobstaad are
was the way Gen. Funston answered ls alonB the Dvina river and in the
.! i lake region between Dvinsk and il-
Some uneasiness was displayed for', and with the Russians generally j
a moment at his headquarters today i
when it was reported the wires had
been cut between Casas Grandes and
the border, but an official report stat
ing that the line cut was a "buzzer"
line General Pershing had laid, and
that it had been broken accidentally
by some of the American forces cros-,
sing it, allayed apprehension. (
It is not believed here that Gen. '
rnnatnn ic wnrrii(l tn nnv PTPHt PY-
tent by the report? of growing anti-1
pathy against the American forces, ter attack on a position taken from (which quickly spread to the Paris Cot
among the Carranza troops. j them. ,ton Company plant, late this afternoon
It has not been forgotten at his j .,, (i,01 of -
VQrc knno.-or Itint V t o has
many more troops somewhere in
northern Mexico than the tew nun-
dred said to be riding with him in
a flio-Kt Kafnra tV.-, nnrcninn' trorins
of the two countries.
South of Casas Grandes the cavalry I advanced several miles toward Trebl
detachments that are following the zoud after further fighting with the
band into the heart of the mountain- Turks. Ispahan, Persia, is reported
ous country where Villa is known to to have been taken by the Russians,
have gone are expanding in a triangle Heavy fighting continues between
of aoDroxituately 5000 square-mile the Austrians and the Italians along
area. The search for Villa has as-
sumed the proportions of a campaign
and it was pointed out that if it be-
came necessary to extend the opera
tions much more it might be neces
sary to move into the field almost all
the remaining available force of the
American army. At the time it was
found necessary to leave some 2.000
men to guard the Mexican border
towns.
It has been impossible in attempt
ing in all cases to give them special
protection but Gen. Funston does not
care to move the troops from their
stations that are within reach of most
of the more populated points along
the frontier.
With the arrival of four and one
third regiments of infantry, two
squadrons of cavalyry it amounts to
about half the field force of the Amer
ican army. This does not include the
coast artillery.
The regiments left in the I'nired
States, exclusive of those In the so'Uh
ern department snd on foreign tour?,
are the Second Cavalry. Fort Ethen
Allen. Vt.; the Fifth Cavalrv. Fort
Shoridan. Ill.. Fort Meyer, Vt.. and
Fort Leavanworth. Kansas: Third In
fantry. Maddfson Rarrpcks. N. V., and
Fourteenth Infantry, one battalion at
Fort La ton. Tex.: Twenty-fifth in
fantry. Vancouver Parracks. Washing
ton: Twer.tv-fourt'i Infantrv, Fort D.
A. Russel. Wvo.: Thirteenth Infantrv.
P'aHsbnr! Parra'Vs, N. Y.: Fifth
Field Artillerv. with the exception of
one bJittrv. Fort Sill. OWla.: Three
batteries Third Field Artillery. Fort
Mryor, Va.
(Continued on Page 3)
British Consul at Torreon Orders
Box Car to Take Foreign Women Out
(By Review Leased Wire)
TORREON. March 21. Thomas
O'Hea, the British vice-consul, engag
ed a box car tonight to carry the for
eign women and children to the Amer-
iran border. The car was unable tojos
leave Torreon, however, on account of
a wreck near Pomona, but will start
tomorrow under a special escort fur
nished by C.en. Francisco Gonzales.
Gen. Ignacio Ramos informed Gen.
Gonznles that his forces had penetrat
ed the stronghold of Juan Madrid, one
of the Canu'o Reyes' chieftains, in the
hills wet of Dinamita, Durango, Killed
a number of the enemy, capturing 136
DEATH SENTENCE OF WOMAN MURDERER COMMUTED
RALEIGH, North Carolina, March 21. The death sentence impos
ed on Mr3. Ida Hell Warren, the lirst woman ever sentenced in North
Carolina to die in the electric chair, was coin muted to life impris
onment the sentence of Samuel Preston Christy convicted with -Mr.
Warren for the murder of her husband in 1914.
The deaih of Edith Cavill at the hand:; of the German tiring squad
was cited by Governor Locke Craig in the commuution order. Th;re
is no escape, said the Governor, from the iron fadthat Mrs. Ida Hall
Warren is guilty of murder, deliberate and premeditated. Gemiuuy
executed the woman spy; England did not. The action o ftlie mili
tary guvernor of Belgium was condemned by the conscience of the
world. The killing of tliis woman would send a shivver through
North Carolina.
Jf
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONDON, March 21. Germans in
working their way through the Malan-
rtirt u'nnri And the Avnenurt wood.
u" 'U!"C-
While the reports of both attacks as
having been repulsed with heavy
losses,, the admission is made that a
German salient, near Lake Narocz,
; was withdrawn from encircling the
Russian front.
Vnr RiilririscKkl midwflv hetween
Dvin8k and VUna lhe Russians have
captured advanced German trenches.
d 1llKt Km.lh nf nvinsk. In the re-
i v 11 1 k .. I
ntured and reuis,d a German comi -
j ... .
reirograa says iiiai in me capiurp
RFHA S ENDEAVOR T
WAY THROUGH VERDUN'S WOODS
'.of the bridgehead near tne village
- mu,,i.T. oni o. .
cf Mikhaltzche in Galicia most of its 1
defenders were killed in hand to hand !
fvhilni, . I
Tlie Russians in the Caucasas havelP' northeast to the heart of the
the greater party of the Austro-Italian
line. No important changes in post
tion have taken place however.
I In a skirmish between Rritish and
German torpedo boat destroyers' yes
terday off the Belgian coast, both the e , situated the Merrick
British and the Germans claim vlc-JHote, , four story Rtmcture.
t0TJ- . ' . .. .i Lar'ce residences in the fashionable i
nil cuvaru urey. anuuuiiceu inm
Belgium has been notified that when j
time came to ask Belgium to join in
the peace negotiations it would be
done.
REPORTS BOMBARDMENT
P A HIS Vmh 91 i I,. f
bombardment on the left bank of the
Meuse is reported in the official com
munication issued by the war office
tonight. This operation was carried
out against the village of Esnes and
Hill No. 304, which lies from one to
two miles east of the Avocourt-Milan-
court line." The French guns replied ,
vigorously to the shelling and no at-
tempt to assault with infantry was
mafle- -
PRISONERS MAKE ESCAPE.
PROVINCE. R. I., March 21. While!
two deputy sheriffs were guarding In
a van 31 prisoners, including one wo
man, going from the court house here
to prison in Cranston today, some of10.o)ook ,onipht DV the fire which hd
the prisoners attacked the deputies,
shot one seriously and beat the other
into unconsciousness. Sixteen of the
31 lied to the woods. The remaiaiiiff,
15 remained In the van wh'ch oa of;of
ineiii urove me prisoners n-re tney
pave themselves un. Tonight eleven .
of the fugitives had been captured by
hore and mules as well as a large
quantity of dynamite. The dynamite
was seized some days ago in a raid by
the bandits on a factory in Dinamita.
Another defeat of the Villistas un
der Reyes was renorted hv Gen. Ram
who advanced to San Pedro and
pulsed a body of the enemy who had J
seized Villesca and were advancing on I and unless fond and clothing i sent
Torreon. After their defeat the Vi'.I- In- from outside points there will be
istas fell back on Villesca. where they j keen distress.
badly beat Charles Helmen. a Finn.; Paris has n ponulation of about 20.
becaue be was unable to nay a ran-1 000. of which about fortv ner rent
om of in.000. Helmen bad previous-; ar negroes. If is estimated at lea t
ly saved the lives of two firemen by
persuading the Villistas that they
were Germans.
$25,000,000 Fire Had in
Southern Town. Large Part j
of Business and Residence i
District is Burned.
(By Review Leased Wire)
PARIS, Texas, March 22. The
fire which swept through Paris,
destroyed more than half of the
city in less than six hours, was
believed to be under control at 1
o'clock this morning. Although
there was no known loss of life,
the property damage is said to be
.well over $20,900,000.
PARIS, Texas, Murrh 21. Firoi '
which started in the washhot.se of the
l1 - 0" Transportation Company and.
Ulilir un.iiac c.-.iw.o.-u u.
..!..!, ;i o.
. ,,
under control.
The fire near the Paris cotton com-
pressors,
late this afternoon, had
city and up to eight o'clock tonight
had destroyed twenty-five blocks of
residences and business buildings with
a loss at that time estimated at about
$21,000,000.
The flames made a close sweep of
the business portion of the city and
burned a path three and four blocKs
wide extending to the public uare
FLIES DEVOUR!
PURE DF PARIS
TEXAS
i where a large open space arrested the
"Iconrse of the fire temDorarilv. On;
part of the city and smaller houses in '
the small business and brick building
were raised by the fire which was
fanned by a brisk south wind.
This section has been without sr nsa
tion for months and the Paris lire de-
ipanmeni was powerless in mi-p mr u-
inning flames. Scarcity of water also ;
was ln impediment.
Just how the fire started was not ;
known at an early hour tonight. The j
compressor with hundreds of bales of ;
cotton, was the first building destroy-1
ed. The fire spread to adjacent build-
,nes:
It is five blocks from there to :
1 . . i fn J r . " . a I
,ne usmcss nwirici in.s ..nn ":,"""'0" "D ;,, af er il e
"""1 TZ Xm
Urea. Sweeping almost due north the
flr reached the district where Ir.rce I
',,, h,v ,aPO mihii,. '
hnsinpfis htoclcs face the nuhlic sntiftre.
n - ii, - . - . ,.ru. rnrl.PA m
from their office.
Onlv fifteen out of two dozen busi-
!ness blocks were left standing at 12
swept over the city late this evening. I
Am ie nrcrDcn
ywvvirn Mar.h -i , tho ritv
parjs Tpjt WJ)S offprP(, tonisi by !
,bp AmPri(,n noA Crs Society in a '
,plPeram Bddresiied to the Mnvor of;
n- , Pip. Mnn-i, Hi-'
I rector of the Rocky Mountain Division
iof the Red Cross.
SUFFFRING GRFAT.
isu.-wia.m. lex.. Aiarcn .. i . i ne , flscatorv and it would force the pri
fire which started shortly after five vatp pI.Ue manufacturers out of busi
o'clock in the southern portion or thej,)PSf( at tjmp wien they were most
city has left a funnel shapnctl wake j needed bv the government.
of destruction, two Mocks wide at tie
start, and from eight to ten blocks
wide where the fire was ragintr at
midnight. The suffering in Parts
Is great, according to reports from
re-lthere. The destruction of mercantile
establishments cut off the food sunnlv
S 000 perens were without fond or
shelter. The damage i: estimated at
between 10,r,00.00 and S20,00o,noo.
I T?-W
WW
i. r Ill I
7; ,ll,MUf S.. J
5 xMe
V
1)
Captain Benjamin D. Foulois.
vnpiaiii ucnjauiiii 1 Will '
command tne air scouts that will ac
company the American troops into
Mexico to capture Villa. Eicrht aeros
j will go with the first f.rce of troops
I and will be followed with a reserve
. forco that ia being formed now.
OR PLATE
IDE UPPER
! t TU' C
BY Majnty of Thirty-five
tne lulman Measure rro-
viding for Government Ar
mor Plate Plant Approved.
HOUSE WILL CONSIDER
BILL VERY PROMPTLY
Hay Bill is Again Considered
in the Lower Branch of Con
gress. Final Vote Expec
ted During Day.
(By Review Leased Wire.) .
WASHINGTON, March 21. The
Tillman bill to provide for the erec-
tlon or purc.ilase by the governnvujt
. .. .
M a" arm " n n7
not to e3t(,ppd $11,000,000 was passed
by the Senate late today by a vote of
ss to 23- Tle House naval committee j
has set aside tomorrow for considera-1
e '
H
tion of the measure with a view to re-j
porting it to the House promptly. i DROPS DEAD IN JAIL.
Democratic senators supported the j CHICAGO. March 21. David Voll
bill solidly, claiming It was one of the rath, former treasurer of the St. Mar
important measures Included in I the ! ens Lutheran Kvangelical church, who
national preparedness program, now'
beinK ,astened to completion.
Nine
nrocrpssive Kemihlicans joined with
the majority in voting for the bill,
They were Senators Borah, Clapn,
Cummins. Gronna, Kenyon, Norris,
Poindexter, Sterling and Works,
The passage of the measure in the
house is regarded as assured. Admin-
(ut t4 inn lxafl uiw t liov a a iiTan-
The bill which has the approval of j
"l admtnistration and Secretary Dan-
ws bitterly opposed by several ,
Republicans as a result of the com
mittee hearings on the measure.
The opposing in the Senate was led
by Senators Penrose, Oliver Lippitt
and Lodge.
As general debate closed todav the
test vote on the issue came when Scn-
ator Weeks of Massachusetts, offered i
Ja substitution which urged a five year j
contract with The Bethlehem and Mid-
vale companies to supply all the nr -j
nmr plate then needed by the govern
met.
The substitute after considerable de
S bate, was rejected t0 to 23. The dem-
ocrats, working solidly with the pro-j troopers were killed and more than
gressive republicans, were against It. : loo wounded in a railroad accident to
Senators Oliver and Penrose insist- !,jav at Sa villa, west of Guadalajara on
e.J that the proposed measure was con- i,,p rcific coast extension of the Mex
. ..it. ' .'I niirwii, H' u, null
, . . ., i j- i
man closed the general discussion for
I?., O n t I ..J T1..11
the administration maintaining tli.it
private manufacturers had never dealt
fairly with the government and that
the government was not in competi
tion. HAY BILL PROGRESSES.
WASHINGTON. March 21 Al
though progress was made in the
House today with the Hay hill, it was
before adjournment. It may be pass
ed tomorrow. Other business having
been set aside to permit its uninter
(Continued on page 7)
BANKERS TO START
I
Chicago, March 21. The bankers will begin a campaign of educa
tion in thrift by the u:e of small portable savings hanks, according
to action taken at a conference of the l!ankers Association of the
Central States held here today. William n. Hughes, of Omuha, secre
tary of the Nebraska Hankers Association presided at the confer
ence which Wiri composed of presidents and secretaries of the Hank
ers' Associations in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan. Minn
esota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota and
Wisconsin.
Among the problems discussed were how to prevent politics In the
election of bank officials, and the promotion of education of young
ban!; employes; in the study of law. Praise of the federal banking
system was voiced by the Bankers who said "there was plenty of
money in the country, rates lower, but the people were holding on
to what they have."
TELEGRAPH ID
WEST OF
TERRIFIC WIND
Southern Indiana Has Great
Wird Storm. "Clover Leaf"
Wrecked. Severy Killed in
Logansport,
(By Review Leased Wire)
MARION. Ind.. March 21. Clover
Leaf passenger train number five,
"Commercial Traveler." was blown
from the track four miles east of Ma
Irion during a cyclone which passed
! through this vicinity about 11 o'clock
! tonight. The train was. overturned
lard wrecked while going at a high
irate of speed, Physicians have gone
:to the scene. Details were Blow in
coming in as all wire communication
i was destroyed.
The train consisted of five cars,
four of which were turned over, the
.'other being tilted at an angle of twen-ty-five
degrees. The engine and ten-
Anwt ut Attad nw 4 k a m Ir AnI f Vk -v nn nt.
j neer and fireman brought them into
! Marion. It was reported that fcbout
j 25 Passengers were injured.
late tonight, it appeared that there
had been no fatalities in the wreck.
LOGANSPORT. Ind.. March 21. A
I wind and hail storm struck this city
t tnniht Iritlinir nna nrtinn nnri ininr.
ing many others. The storm did thou
hans of dollars worth of damage. Sev
eral houses were demolished, t-thers
were unroofed and a great many had
their windows blown in. Wires are
down and communication with outly
ing districts is cut off.
W. J. Recketts, 20 years of age, was
killed when his home was wrecked.
plead guilty a few weeks ag o to hav
ing forged notes ' again aggregating
about $50,000 dropped dead of heart
disease in the county jail today. Voll
rath was treasurer of the church for
IS years, during which time he forged
names of Its trustees to notes. When
in 1913 his peculations were discov
ered he fled and was captured nine
months ago. On his plea of guilty he
was sentenced to the penitentiary
fro mone to twenty years, but because
of 111 health was not serving the sen
tence at thetime of his death.
DANISH STEAMER SUNK.
LONDON. March 21. The Danish
steamer, Skodsborg from Norfolk to
Helsingborg. was sunk yesterday by
torpedo without warning, according to
a statement made by the captain of
the steamer. This information was
obtained in a Copenhagen dispatch to
le
Three members of the crew were re
ported lost.
RARE ACCIDENT IN MEXICO
MEXICO CITY. March 21. Fifty
ican Central Railway.
The train, owing to a loose oi re
moved rail, went over a precipice. The
I train of fifteen cars which was leaded
... ; . i. , . . , .
with men and cavalry horses was
. ,
, 1 burned.
SMOKE ENVELOPES TOWN.
DODGE CITY. Kas.. March 21
Dodge City has been enveloped all
lay in a cloud of smoke and the local
fire department tonight was on guard
at the edge of the city to contest the
approach of prairie fires which aio
burning in a quarter circle in four
counties to the north and west of
her. The mild weather of the last
few days coupled with high winds has
made the prairies like tinder.
W
BLOWS TRAIN
FROM TRACK
y;pl
EDUCATION IN THRIFT.
1
:i
.
TELEPHONE IS
CIUDAD JUAREZ
(By Review Leased Wire)
EL PASO, March 21. Mexican offi
cialt at Juarez practically conceded
tonight that the cutting of the tele
phone and telegraph wires between
Juarez and Casas Grandes was the re
sult of a Villa raid on the Mexican
Northwestern Railroad. The extent
of the raid and the amount of damage
done were either unknown or sup
pressed.
Following hard on the news that the
Mexican telegrajih and telephone
wires between Juarez and Casas
Grandes had been cut, word came
from Columbus tonight, in a dispatch
passed by the censor, that both iire
less and ground wire communication
with General, Pershing had failed.
The army field wire between Colum
bus and the headquarters of the ex
peditionary force was severed in t8
places. The trouble with wireless oc
curred shortly before six o'clock but
its cause is unknown.
Gen. Gavira at Juarez admitted to
night he had failed to restore wire
communications with Casas Grandes
and it was conceded by the Mexican
officials that the cutting of the wire
was the result of a Villa raid on the
railroad. The extent of the raid and
the damage done was unknown or
supressed.
In the absence of any news from
either Gen. Pershing of Gen. Gavira,
there was nothing left but conjecture
as to the result of the fighting be-J that Lieutenant W. G. Kilner, who
tween Villa and the Carranzistas said started with one of the planes Sun
to have occurred near Namiquipa. day, was forced to return here after
There was a strong belief here that flying about 12 miles over the Mexi
Villa was not personally involved in can border. After trifling repairs h
whatever fighting occurred. i again started and reached the advan-
If it Is true that Villa has clashed j ced base safely. It also was pointed
at Namiquipa with Carrana troops. I out that it is possible in binding in
in a general battle in which he was i th rocky slopes of the region, over
defeated, it is probable that in time
his followers will have to come In con
tact with the American columns.
The advance guard of the Americans
was reported yesterday at EI Valle,
only 3!i miles from Namiquipa. It is
not believed, however, that Villa will
risk an open fight with C.en. Persh-
ing's troops but would split his men
into small parties before contact with
.k jiii i
the northern sold ers and indulge in
his favorite guerrilla warfare.
In spite of reassuring
reports from I
Washington there was no lessening
today in the tension along the border
or no weakening In the freely ex
pressed belief that there was serious
dissatisfaction among the Carranza
troops.
The protocol between the American
government and Gen. Carranza did
not alter opinion. It was pointed out
that the First Chiefs actions by no
means reflected the actual wishes of
all the Mexican people and that large
numbers of troops under his command
had been former adherents of Villa
and other factional chiefs who still
had strong claims on their sympathies.
Further proof was furnisned today
that the American military authorities purchase by the government of tin ar
consider the situation along the bor- ntor plate factory at a cost not to ex
der as far from satisfactory. On the ,-eed $11,000,000 was passed by the
advice of Captain Moses, commander Senate late todav by a vote of SS to
of the cavalry troop at Fabens. thirty 23. The House naval committee was
miles east of here. Dr. Charles R. set aside tomorrow for consideration
Rlcker. the medical officer with the of ,ne n.eaure with a view to report
troop, sent his wife and famivl to El iK it to ,hp Hous promptly.
Paso. They were followed by five . "
other American women residents, in- TARRYTOWN HAS ELECTION
eluding two school teacheds who TARRYTOWN, N Y March 21
closed the local school. Capt. Moses Tllp ti(.kp, , jnt0 t(lp fie(, nv )p
refused to admit, however, that he pui,n,. Welfare nr.wir wr
anticipated any trouble. He addressed
tne ueparture or Mrs. KicRer and her election in North Tarrytown today
children to the fact that he didn't be- electing its candidate for village presi
(Continued on page three) dent bv about 100 voles.
Pershing Reports He
Near the Headquarters Of Noted Bandit
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. March 21 General
Pershing, leading the American ex
peditionary forces into Mexico, re
ported to the War Department today
that he had reached a point near
Villa. It was made clear that C.en.
Pershing believed it quite
possible i
that Villa may be trapped.
An unofficial dispatch which pic
tured a very different situation was j
brought to the attention of Secretary
Baker, who said thai while the situa-
tion was fraught with niany posstbil -
tties he had no reason to disbelieve
'c.en. Pershing's dispatch.
Army Fliers Thought Lost or
Killed in the Wild Part of
Northern Chihuahua Possi
ble As Result of Snipers.
HUNT FOR THEM IS
BEING PUSHED AHEAD
All of the Aviators with the
Column Left Sunday and
All But the Two Have Re
ported to Pershing.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
COLl'MBCS, N. Mex., March 21.
Two lieutenants of the "irst Aero
Squadron are lost somewhere in the
desert foothills of the Madres with
but two small canteens of water
and three days rations between them
and starvation, it was officially made
known at Military headquarters here
tonight. Army officers do not credit
reports in Columbus that the two
lieutenants may have fallen victims
of snipers.
Radio advices to Major W. R. Sam
ple, commandant here, received today
- 'from Captain
Foulois at Casas
Grandes. commanding the aero corps.
reported that Lieut. H. R. Willis and
Lieut. Kdgar S. Carrell. who left here
last Sunday afternoon each in an
army aeroplane had failed to arrive
at the advanced base and that no re
ports of the missing men or their bi
planes had been received. Immediate
ly Instructions were issued to drivers
of every motor truck leaving here to
watch for traces of the missing men
and their planes. It is believed also
that some of the six aeroplanes which
arrived safely at Casas Grandes are
being employed In the search.
The eight planes started from here
late Sunday for the flight over the lit)
miles of desert and mountains through
the Casas Grandes Valley, to join the
expeditionary force. Neither of the
men was accompanied by a mechan
ic or an observer and shortly after
the flight began the two planes were
detached from tUe others. Nothing has
been heard from either since.
Tonight army men admitted that
with th two flyers 48 hours overdue
at Casas Grandes there Is much con
cern for their safety. It was pointed
out. however, that the deiar does not
indicate necessarily, that the aviators
have met with serious troubles. Mem
bers of the aero corps tltng to the
hope that they may have encounter
ed engine difficulties and been forced
to land for repairs in some unfre-
' ouented region. It was Dointed out
- if'h they were to fly. their planes
miglit have been wrecked and the
two officers may now be struggling
to make their way to some settle
ment. Reports reaching here indicate that
the civilian scouts accompanying the
punitive expedition were leading
! 'V . J. , . . . 7.
rr H . ?' .
search for the two lieutenants. Annv
h , , d ,
... K maA ,
as the mpn carried oniy food enough
for a few days and that both this and
their water supply may have been
lost if their machines were wrecked.
Considerable hope was based on the
fact that both men are athletes and
are well able to care for themselves
in emergencies. Lieut. Willis Is 2S
yearn of age and was appointed to the
army from South Carolina while
Lieut. Gorrell is 24 and was appoint
ed from Maryland. Both took part in
the recent successful flight of army
plares from Fort Sill. Okia.
BILL PASSES SENATE
WASHINGTON. March 21 The Till
man bill to provide for the erection or
by the Rockefeller family won the
Has Reached Point
While Assistant Secretary Polk of
the State Department and Eliseo
Arredondo. Mexican afmbassador de
signate, were discussing the joint
pursuit of Villa, the War Department
was ordering additional troops to the
border in response to a request from
Gen. Funston. The Fifth Cavalry and
the Twenty-fourth Infantry at Ft. D.
A. Russel were also ordered to the
border. The point to which the troops
will move was not discussed.
A squadron of the Second Cavalry
;at hort Ethan Allen, ermont. win be
sent to Ft. Meyer to supplement the
J garrison there.
