m v 111!
M mm - Hi!
?C Today's fltyal Prictes I j L-A 'ill A'A'iV L.TVk''VV AVX- V p- m EDm0N ill
(jm qUotd; coppery steady; electrolytic, J T ' W L 'TL VJ "W V T V W WW V W T m WEATHER Utah: Increasing :
ufl nca&&JS?;X?J ' June and ,at N-X Cloudiness Tonight and Thursday, 111
tH' cr, $27.00S27.50. if , J With Rain In North Portion Tonight II
MH' . . .Z. - . - i or Thursday; Warmer Tonight. I t
HAS Thf. LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTYo ' lli
JS'g Xth YCa"N'' -70' Prioe: Five Centa. QGDJEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, MARCH 22, 1916. ' Entered M Second Class Matter at the PostoHlco, Osden.UU. II
H ! " - B
yTwo Thousand Carranza Troops at
I - Chihuahua Espouse Cause of Villa 11
I CARRANZA BELIEVED TO BE PLAYING
!; FOR TIME IN GRAVE II. S, ISSUES
a
J Chief of Mexican de Facto Government Knows Crisis May
J Follow Either Refusal, or Granting of Permission to
Sjf American Army to Use Mexican Railroads as Re-
m quested General Skepticism Felt Along Border
lM Pershing Again Reports to Funston
H After Sixty Hours Delay.
ii San Antonio, Texas, March 22. General Herrera, com-
nl mander at Chihuahua, is reported to have revolted against the
u3 Carranza government, declaring himself at war against the
i$ United States and promising his support to Villa, according to
11 1 information received here from a source regarded as reliable,
njf Herrera's strength in the City of Chihuahua was placed at 2,-
$ 000 men. He was relieved of command by Carranza yester-
4J I day, according to information here, his revolt occurring after
a I, he had been relieved.
'm4 El Paso, Texas, March 22. An unconfirmed rumor
" reached here today that 2,000 Carranza troops garrisoning
e 1 Chihuahua have espoused the'eause of Villa. The report came
9 J from two sources but official here would not say that the ad-
!& vices had gone beyond the rumor stage. It was pointed out,
fi 9 however, that more than half the Chihuahua garrison was
3i m composed of former followers of Villa. It was conceded that
v I such an addition to his forces might have an immediate effect
I upon the campaign plans.
San Antonio, Texas, March 22. General Funston today
received from General Pershing the first report from the front
in sixty hours. It came from Casas Grandes and the only ref-
erence made to the operations of Villa was that Villista and
Carranza troops had been engaged Monday near Namiquipa.
ffl ! San Antonio, Tex., March 22. Al-
J ' though It was sixty hours at noon to
J day since General Pershing filed his
'"""last message regarding the disposi
tion of cavalry south of Casas Gran
ades, General Funston professed no
! anxiety as to the welfare of any of the
I troops.
The exact wherQabouts of General
Pershing was unknown at hcadquar
,w ters here. It was considered prob
' able he was out with one of three de-
I tachinents away from his wireless
and In no position to report.
Villa Has Superior Force.
Whether the Carranza troops suc-
i ceeded dn holding Villa near Nami
; quipa or whether the detachment of
! American cavalry that was riding to
5, wards that point encountered him
were not known, but General Funston
believed it not unlikely that by this
time the Americans and Villa's men
had met. Villa was reported to have
had a superior force but General Fun
Bton professed confidence that the
smaller force of Americans would
be able to more than hold Its own.
; The most evident "worry of General
! Funston was caused by the news that
I two of his aviators, Lieutenant Gor
rell and "Willis, were missing. He
i was deeply concerned to learn their
fate.
! Regiments Going Into Mexico.
Of the two regiments now on their
II "way to the border, all but one batta
lion will be sent into Mexico, Increas
ing General Pershing's force by about
2000 men. One battalion of the 24th
infantry a negro regiment which Is
1 at its full war strength and which
recently returned from the Philippines
i will be held at the border.
The cutting of the permanent tele-
i graph -wires between Casas Grandes
and Juarez did not greatly concern
staff officers here since they were
not used by General Pershing. An in-
vestigation is being made of the cut-
ting of the field wire. Reports did.
, not confirm earlier reports that the
i field wire was accidentally broken by
men or anirnals of the expeditionary
I force.
-K Failure of Wireless.
M Repeated failure of the wireless
)Jf sets General Pershing had been using,
EjK caused the dispatch from hero of
Hi Captain F. C. de Chandler of the sig
K nal corps to supervise their operation.
Hfc Telegraph wires between Torreon
Hi and Pledras Negras, opposite Eagle
WVt PasB, were cut today, according to a
Ilf telegram received here.
If Funston Keenly Disappointed.
Ir General Funston manifested keen
I ll disappointment over the bad start
If made by the aviators. In flight tests
I .i 4i,,v -man Vmri rUnnLaved almost
II perfect control over their machines
II and officers here believe it likely that
If unexpected and unusual air conditions
It in the more elevated district of north
It ern Mexico were responsible for the
If descent of. three out of eight ma
ll chines.
II General Funston today requested
It newspaper correspondents to deny
again that Villa's men had captured
If machine gunB, at Columbus or any-
f thing elae, either at Columbus or on
11 the march south of the border.
II' Friends cf the general have written to
lift him expressing their sympathy over
IIL the "Iosb" of the machine guns.
H Wireless Is Restored.
S Columbus, N. M., March 22. Wiro-
yBW loss communication with, the advanced
"base of the American expeditionary
Hf force at Caaas Grando3 was restored
' (today. Several messages, all In code,
BBsr
were received but none gave word
of the two missing lieutenants of the
army aero corps.
El Paso, Tex., March 22. The Mex
ican railroad problem agajn took first
plnco in public interest on the border
today, following a report that the
American military authorities were
contemplating sending a new column
into Mexico from Fabens, a village
30 miles east of here. It was stated
that this plan was under considera
tion as another measure should Gen
eral Carranza refuse the request of
the American government for the use
of the Mexico Northwestern railroad
over which to transport supplies.
The report of tho plan for an entry
from Fabens followed a conference
between General Bell and an Amer
ican who is thoroughly familiar with
that section of Mexico. General Bell
declined to discuss the repo.rt.
Good Wagon Road Leads South.
From Guadalupe across the border
from Fabens one of the best wagon
roads in northern Mexico leads south
and southwest through Charcos to the
lake region about Ahuameda and El
Carrizai. From El Carrlzal It follows
the Rio de Carmen to a spot scarcely
fifteen miles from El Valle, the most
southerly town known to have been
reached by the American troops. The
road is good, as Mexican roads go,
and troops passing along it would
have plenty of water. The country
Unversed Is fairly fertile.
Another Crisis Expected.
That the railroad problem will bring
forth another crisis in the relations
between the Carranzlstas and Amer
icans is firmly believed here. Reports
continue to seep through tho censor
ship at Columbus In regard to the dif
ficulties tho American military au
thorities are experiencing in forward
ing ndequate supplies by pack horses
and -wagon trains.
Army officers maintain their, usual
reticence but they havo made admis
sions which confirm the story that the
transportation problem is an increas
ingly serious one.
Carranza Playing for Time.
There Is a general Impression here
that General Carranza is playing for
time knowing the grave consequences
which may follow a refusal, or a
granting of the American request. As
far as the border Is concerned this
situation Is of far greater interest
than the actuajl pursuit of Villa. This
is partly due to the meager news com
ing from General Pershing and from
a general skepticism over tho reports
from Mexican sources of serious fight
ing between Carranza and Villa forces.
Tho border is not optimistic over
any early end to the chase of Villa.
Their man Interest lies In the possi
bilities of a break between Carranza
troops and the American forces, or a
clash between the two nations along
the border.
Money Will Have Effect
Cash, not paper money of doubtful
value, but real American money now
at a premium in Mexico that is paid
by General Pershing's army in Mex
ico for supplies, will have an invalu
able political offect in Mexico in the
opinion of Amorlcan mining and busi
ness men who havo known Mexico
under all regimes.
The revolutionary armies of Mex
ico, said one mining man, are used
to paying with orders on their gov
ernment, while the common soldierB
had no regular pay to spend. Amer
ican soldiers, buying for cash at good
prices, and the purchases by the
quartermaster and commissary de
partments, will give the Mexicans an
entirely new opinion of the character
of "gringoes" and of their honor. It
was this free spending of money and
freedom from pilfering under the
American occupation of Vera Cruz
that entirely upset the preconceived
notions of the Mexican residents in
regard to the people north of the llne
Silver Is now scarce in Mexico and
gold scarcer. Thus, the people on the
line of advance will be interested in
hnvjjig such free spenders as .the
Americans in their neighborhood.
Pablo Galvez, a Mexican, was ar
rested here today accused of being
invohed In an attempt to murder Dan
Powell, a night watchman employed
by some wholesale houses Powell
telephoned the police last night that
three Mexicans, armed with weapons
equipped with silencers were taking
pot Fhots at him. He said bullets
were flntening on the walls about him
and that he had taken shelter in a
building where he was telephoning.
Police reserves were rushed to the
scene and, after rounding up the
Mexicans in the neighborhood arrest
ed Galvez. No weapon was found on
him.
Brownsville, Texas, March 22. Bat-,
tery D., Fourth Field Artillery, which
has been on duty near Mercedes since
last August, today prepared for a 40
mile march to Fort Brown at Browns
ville, in response to orders Issued by
General Funston. The battery is ex
pected to reach here Thursday night.
A part of this battery were members
of the party that entered Mexico at
Progreso in January to rescue two
soldiers.
Cavalry Leaves for Border.
Leavenworth, Kansas, March 22.
The scoond squadron of the Fifth cav
alry stationed here, entrained this
morning for the Mexican border. Offi
cers In command would not make pub
lic the destination of the troops but
it is understood they will go to El
Paso to await further orders from
General Funston. The squadron left
in two trains consisting of thirty-four
cars and expects to reach the border
within three days
oo
MISSING FLIERS
CLEVER AVIATORS
Lieutenant Gorrell Rated as
One of Most Skilful and
Conservative Men in the
Army.
WILLIS YOUNGEST FLYER
Machines Too Low-powered to
Do Good Reconnaissance
Work in Swirly Air
Currents.
San Antonio, Texas, March 22. One
of the aviators missing from the
squadron that went to Join General
Pershing's column, descended some
where south of Casas Grandes, It was
learned at General Funston's head
quarters today. His name was not
given.
Early reports had Indicated that
both came down somewhere along the
line of communication between the
border line and Casas Grandes, Gen
eral Pershing's advanced base of op
erations. Reports explained today that one
machine reached Casas Grandes and
was sent south over the country In
which the three detachments of caVr
airy are operating. No details rela
tive to his disappearance were re
corded. San Diego, Calif.. March 22. Unit
ed Slates army fliers here awaited
with anxiety today definite news of
Junior Military aviators Edgar S.
Gorrell, and Robert N Wlllls Jr., who
are reported missing In Mexico. Both
men received their training at the
North Island school here, as did Lieu
tenant Thomas S. Bowen, who was in
jured by a fall in his machine near
Casas Grandes.
Lieutenant Gorrell is rated as one
of the most clever and conservative
fliers in the army. Lieutenant Willis
Is one of the youngest aviators in the
service.
All of the aeroplanes which figured
in the Mexican expeditionary force
mishaps arc 100 horsepower tractors.
At tho time they were purchased for
the first aero squadron. they were con
sidered by aviation experts to be the
best obtainable in this country for
scouting work . With pilot and ob
faervor tho biplanes coould attain a
maximum Bpeed of '83 miles nn hour
and could carry sufficient fuel to last
for eight hours' flight at full speed.
Army aviators declare, however,
that these machines are too low pow
ered to permit of good reconnaissance
work among the swirly air conditions
found In tho mountains of northern
Mexico.
SOCIALIST LEADS RACE.
Minneapolis, Minn, March 22. Dan
lol Goeblch, Socialist candidate, leads
Mayor Gerhard H. Bading, non-partisan,
for the mayorallty nomination in
yesterday's primary by 5,367 votes,
according to nearly complete returns
today. These two candidates will op
pose each othor In tho election April
4th.
MM HOMELESS
AI DALLAS TEXAS
City Is Without Food and Peo
ple Dazed at Result of Dis
astrous Fire.
HEAVY PROPERTY LOSS
Tall Buildings Gutted by
Flames Being Dynamited
Walls Fall With Roar
to Streets.
Paris, Texas, March 22. A conser
vative estimate of the number of peo
ple made homeless by last night's
fire In the business and residential
districts here was 8,000, made early
today by Mayor Ed McCuIstlon.
Although tho city Is without food
there was apparently little suffering
and a good natured, though dazed
view was taken of the disaster by a
majority of the citizens.
The fli-e wiped out about the entire
business district destroyed from 1500 '
to 2000 persons and caused a loss esti
mated from two and a half to three
and a half million dollars. About one
third of the city was untouched by the
flames. Confirmation was Impossible
of rumors that from ten fo thirty per
sons had lost their lives.
Fires were still burning In some
places at daybreak.
Brick walls, blackened by heavy
smoko and extending into the air five
and six stories, were being razed by
dvnamlte with a safety zone roped
off that passersby might not be en
dangered by falling walls.
The work of dynamiting the build
ings commenced early today. Ono by
one the buildings, which cost from
$100,000 to $300,000. already gutted by
the flames, tumbled with a roar to
add to the debris In the streets.
Estimates of the monetary damage
done by the fire were placed nt about
$5,000,000, although It was Impossible
to get an accurate accounting of the
loss. An unusual fact In connection
with the fire was that there was no
loss of life and so far as reported no
cne, seriously Injured.
In the business section there are
left only smaller stores on side
streets radiating from tho public
square.
In these stores Paris business men
opened establishments this morning
to care for the needy. In ono brick
building, less than fifty feet wide
and about ono hundred feet long,
were located a branch office of the
telephone company for long distance
service, a temporary telegraph office
consisting of a key and sounder plac
ed on a Bhelf; a hastily constructed
apothecary shop and on the other side
a small store of dry goodB and cloth
ing, which was In great demand by
those who had lost most of their ap
parel In the flames There was ap
parent a feeling of resentment among
some citizens In the matter of asking
for outside old. In spite of the calam
ity, the bulk of ParlB residents felt
' that they could depend upon their
own resources for taking care of them
selves. Fire Casualties Reported.
The first casualty in tho firo be
came known today when the body of
John Straus, negro, was found in tho ,
ruins of his home.
Mrs. W. J Bailey, 50 years-old, died
from heart failure caused by excite
ment. Mrs. A. C. Poul, an aged woman
whose house on South Main street was
burned, Is missing. It is feared she
was burned to death.
A statement Issued by Mayor Mc
Cuscticon placed the damago in last
night's fire at between $8,000,000 and
$10,000,000.
"No survey of sufficient accuracy
has been completed to enable me to
announce definitely tho number of
homeless" the statement read. The
known deaths are three."
Two-Thirds of Town Ruined.
Two thirds of tho town has been
laid In ruins. The remaining third
was tho refuge last night and early to
day of those whoso homes had been
swept away.
Such as remained of the city's pub
lic buildings were crowded with wo
men and children until daybreak, rail
road stations, a few stores and often
the open air became sloeplng places
for thoso whoBe living routine had
been shattered.
But few of the male population
slept last night. Most of the men
worked in trying to stop the flames;
others who gave up exhausted, found
rest on the lawns of parks and secure
places in the residence district.
Clearing the Streets.
Work of clearing the streets by an
organized force under tho direction
of Mayor McCuIstlon was started to
day about 8 o'clock. Although tho
task loomed almost impossible, rich
men and laboring men willingly Join
ed in the squads which had made good
progress In ridding the business sec
tion of ashes, charred timbers, and
crumbled brick walls.
A several days job faced them, but
they wont at It diligently.
Volunteer workmen from other
cltleB were eagerly given places in
tho brigade.
Food Situation Serious.
The food situation was further Ber-V
iously menaced today by the arrival
of hundreds of sight-seers from towns
nearby, who wore attracted to Paris
by the bright glow in tho heavens
which lasted most of the night and
which could he seen from twenty to
thirty miles. Railroad service is un
hampered. Trains arriving on four
roads today brought food and cloth
ing but according to thoso in charge
of the quickly organized relief com'
mlttees, not enough to supply the
thousands of stricken people.
uu
CHEMICAL COMPANY
LOSES A MILLION
Copper Hill, Tenn., March 22.
More than $1,000,000 was today's esti
mate of the loss In the fire which yes
terday totally destroyed tho two mil
lion gallon acid tanks, crude and fin
ished prosucts of tho Carcolite Chem
ical company here.
By the explosion of ono of the largo
chemical tanks Assistant Superintend
ent George Strohl was fatally injured.
The fire originated from acid boil
ing over In ono of the kettles.
The plant for the last few months
has been employed In the manufac
ture of Ingredients for high explosives
for European consumption.
NORTHEAST GALES
SWEEPING EAST
Rain, Sleet, Hail, Snow and
Lightning Accompany Wind
of Unusual Violence.
PROPERTY DAMAGE
Railroad Traffic Delayed,
Street Cars Held Up, Build
ings Unroofed and
Trees Uprooted.
Chicago, March 22. Northeast gales
bearing rain, sleet, hall and snow ac
companied by frequent lightning flash
es swept over eastern Indiana, north
ern 'Illinois and southern Wisconsin
today.
Tho storm, which was of unusual
violence, cost one life, caused many
injuries and great property damage
In Logansport buildings were unroof
ed and the flying wreckage caused
the only fatality reported Several
Illinois cities suffered severely whllo
Chicago sustained all the 111 effects
of a blizzard except low temperature
Railroad transportation was delay
ed, street cars were held up and shado
trees uprooted In various sections of
the city.
Before 9 a. m. the storm abated
and hundreds of men began the work
of removing the snow from the
streets.
Trains Blown From Track.
Chicago, March 22. Marion, Ind.,
reports a passenger train on the To
ledo, St Louis and Northwestern rail
road (Clover Leaf) blown from the
track near this city. Several persons
were severely Injured but none was
killed. Four cars were overturned
and a fifth tilted.
Wind at Sixty-mile Rate.
Kansas City, Mo., March 22. A
wind storm blowing at the rate of
sixty miles an hour blew practically
all last night and was still blowing
early this morning. Plate gloss win
dows were broken in tho downtown
district and street lights and tele
graph and telephone wires were blown
down. The wind was accompanied
by a sharp drop in temperature.
Trains Collide In Storm.
Albert Lea, Minn., March 22. In a
collision of two freight trains on the
Minneapolis and St Paul railroad near
New Richland, Minn., during a blind
ing snowstorm early this morning
several trainmen were reported to
have lost their lives. The trainmen
were caught in tho wreckage which
was said to be burning.
Many People Injured.
Indianapolis, Ind., March 22. Three
deaths, four serious and more than fif
ty minor injuries and extensive pro
perty damage resulted from tho wind
storm which swept northern Indiana
late last night
"Silas Williams, 71, was killed
when his home near Jalapa in Colt
county, was destroyed crushing him to
death in his bed.
James Rector of Indianapolis was
killed when his homo was destroyed
by tho Htorm.
W. J. Rlcketts was killed at Logans
port when the roof of a factory build
ing was blown against his homo.
Mrs. Jerry Carter of St. Louis, Mo.,
an Italian woman named Pasqualo of
Trinidad, Colorado. William Hutchlns,
Frankfort, Ind.. and E. L. H. Moore,
Van Buron, Ind., were severely Injur
ed when three coaches of the Clovor
Leaf passenger train were blown over
near Marion, Ind. These wero taken
to the hospital in Marlon.
A number of houses and factories
wero unroofed in Marion.
In Logansport tho storm confined
Itself to a narrow strotch but wrecked
practically everything in its path.
Baby Killed in Tornado.
Hartford City, Ind., March 22. Ger
trude Alspaoh, 4-year-old daughter of
a farmer living near Montpelier north
of here, waB killed by the tornado
which swept the northern section of
this (Blackford) county early, today.
HEAVY ARTILLERY FIRE CONTINUES 1
BETWEEN FRENCH. AND GERMANS I
Battle of Verdun Now in Fourth Week Big Guns Preparing H
Way for Huge Infantry Assault Germans Bombard IB
Malancourt Heavily Russians Occupy Capital of m,
Bukowina Fleet Active in the Black Sea. !'
I
London, March 22, 3:15 p. m. The sinking by a Rus- 1 U
sian warship of the steamship Esperanza off Kali Akra in the I E
Black sea off the Rumanian coast, is reported in a Reuter dis- K
patcl filed at Bucharest on Sunday. The Esperanza, a 7,000 l
ton vessel flying the German flag, is said to have been loaded
with foodstuffs for Constantinople. The crew vas captured m
by the Russians. The dispatch also reports the sinking of a K
score of small sailing ships with cargoes of food. Ell
London, March 22, 4:30 p. m. Abandonment of Czerno- Sf
witz, capital of Bukowina, by the Austrians, is reported in an j
unofficial wireless dispatch received here today from Rome. II
Paris, March 22. Noon. No Infan
try attacks were made on the Verdun
front last night, the French war office
announced this afternoon. The Ger
mans bombarded Malancourt heavily
and there were artillery exchanges of
less Intensity east of the Meuse.
The statement follows:
"West of the Meuse the artillery
duel was very lively In the region of
Malancourt, Isnes and Hill 304. A
particularly violent fire was directed
against the Haucourt hill.
"East of the Meuse the bombard
ment was Intense In the region of
Vaux and Damloupe.
"There were no Infantry actions.
The night was calm on the remainder
of the front."
Holland Remains Inactive.
London, March 22, 9:57 a. m. The
Dutch foreign office admits that no
representations were made by Holland
to Germany In connection with the
sinking of the Tubantlo, says a Reu
ter's dispatch from The Hague. The
Dutch minister In Berlin has been
Instructed to ask the German govern
ment to open an Inquiry in view of
the statements made by the crew and
passengers of the Turbantia. These
Instructions, however, wore cancelled
when the German minister at The
Hague made a declaration in behalf
of his government
Turks Evacuate Fortress.
London, March 22, 3:21 p. m A
Bucharest dispatch forwarded from
Amsterdam to the Central News says
the Turks have evacuated Erzinjan, a
fortress of Asia Minor, 120 miles west
of Erzerum.
Russians Make No Gains.
Berlin, March 22, via London, 4:10
p. m. The Russians have gained no
success in their extended offensive
against tho German lines.
The statement follows:
"Western front During the work
of clearing up the battlefields after
tho attacks of March 20 northeast of
AVor.court and owing to the occasional
capture of additional trenches from
the enemy outside the wounded sec
tors the number of unwounded prison
ers captured there has been increased
to 5S officers and 2291 men.
Artillery Battles Continue.
"Artillery battles continued on both
sides of the Meuse with great vlo
lonce. although at times they became
less intense.
"At Obersopt, the French again at
tempted to make up for tho check
they suffered February 13. They
were repulsed with considerable
losses.
"Three enemy aeroplanes were put
out of action by our aviators in aerial
engagements north of Verdun. Twd
camo down behind our front north
east of Samnogneux. ( The third
crashed down in flames."
Lieutenant Boelko brought down his
13th enemy aeroplane and Lieutenant
Parschau his fourth.
"Eastern front: The great offen
sive movement of the Russians "in
creased in extent. The points of at
tack have become more numerous and
advices followed each other without
Interruption at several places through
out the day and night. Tho strongest
storming attack was again directed
against the front northwest of Pos
tavy At this point the loss of tho en
emy' reached an extraordinary figure
oven for the numbers of Russians in
action. . . I i.
"During a successful counter attack
at the point where some Inroads were
made in our lines 11 Russian officers
and 673 men were taken prisoner.
During manv other engagements south
and southea'st of Riga near Frledrich
Btadt, west aud southwest of Jacoh
stadt, south of Dvinsk, north of Vidzy
and between l"arocz ana wiszmew
lake3. our brave troops repulsed the
enemy completely lnfjictlng the great
est possible losses on him and during
counter attacks took more than six
hundred prisoners from the enemy.
The Russians did not succeed at any
point In gaining any success. Our
losses were slight in all those actlonB.
"Balkan front: Tho situation Is un
changed." Review of War Situation.
Tho battle for Verdun, now well In
its fourth weok, continues with inten
sity but at present tho infantry is hold J
In leash while the big guns prepare 1? jjj
ofr further assaults. 1 l)&
The powerful German thrust west lltj
of the Meuse which developed early nl
this week, halted when It reached the
southern edge of Avocourt wood. But
the activity of tho German artillery In
this sector, which Paris reports today I JI
particularly violent, indicates that the mjn
German intention probably Is to make mm
further determined attempts to ad- mM
vance this Important flanking oper- mM
ation. mm
The situation on the eastern bank Hip
of tho Meuse is unchanged, but here, Kgu
too, the artillery fire continues In- 111
tense, particularly near Vaux and , Hi
Damloupe. H
Russian warships are reported ac- ; ?
tlvo In the Black sea, where the 7,000
ton, German steamer Esperanza, said B
to"be loaded with foodstuffs, has been H
sunk off the Rumanian coast, accord- I
Ing to advices from Bucharest. Sink- m.
ing of a score of small sailing ships I)
also is reported. 1
oo I
FULL DETAILS
OF A MURDER j
Mexican Bandits Surround ' Hi
Home of Wealthy Italian if
and Demand $5,000 and l
Shoot Him Down. B
Murderers Drink and Carouse 11
While Dead Body of Ranch-
man Lies Outside in Sun. U
El Paso, Tex., March 22. Full de- !
tails of the murder of Enrico Viscon- U ;
ti, wealthy Italian, at his ranch in tho H '
state of Chihuahua March 13, havo n
been received by the dead man's K
brother, Vizcenti Viscontl. lu
The latter today wired tho Italian wM"
minister at Mexico City to present II
a claim for indemnity to the Carranza U
government. He also Instructed tho II
widow, a resident of Santa Rosalia, to If
have Carranzista soldiers sent to lc
guard the ranch until she and her two 1
sons can take possession. The ranch IJIJI
Is distant from Santa Rosalia eighty IjfJ
miles. Kgj
The story of the murder was con- I'll
tained in a letter from Wenceslao Ell
Garcia, a cattleman of Presidio, Tex. Ijl
Garcia obtained the details from an Ijll
employe, Rumando Carrasco, who had Ijl
gone to tho Vlsconl ranch on the day U
of tho murder to buy cattle for Garcia, JI
According to the letter, forty or HL
fifty men, supposed to be Villista ban- j Hj
dits, appeared at tho ranch about 9:30 i Hi
o'clock on tho morning of tho 14th. ' flj
They interrupted the negotiations of IH
Viscontl and Carrasco by taking Vis- j Hj
contin outside the ranch house and J H;
demanding that he pay them 5000. !
When ho said that he could not raise H
the money they placed him against j
tho wall and shot him. Afterwards I w
the bandits looted tho house and wine ' H
cellar, drinking and carousing while I B
VIsconti'B body lay outside in the hot '
aun. Carrasco was not molested, he HI
being a Mexican. Hi
Lato in the day the bandits made J Hj
off, after burying the body in a shal- ' Hi
lovf grave. Carrasco then returned j Hi
to Presidio with h'is story of the mur- i Hj
dcr. H
Tho Italian colony hero is preparing Hj
to "back Vizcenti Viacontl's demands j Hi
on the do facto government. Vis- H
contl is acting on the advice of the i H
Italian ambassador at Washington. H
Douglas, Ariz., March 22. Trooper ' HJ
Robert Kettle of tho First U. S. cav- , H
airy who was found early today in H
a box car at Rodeo, N. M., with a f
bullet wound in his head, was brought )
to the hospital here where he is still )
unconscious with his chances of ro- V-
covery doubtful. '
Officers of tho First cavalry brig- H
ado havo been unable to find out how j
Kettle became wounded. Neither do I I
they understand what occurred in the 1
box car at Rodeo, which is thirty-five ,
miles northeast on tho New Mexico-.
Arizona border. An investigation is
being made. A I
Mm i
jgMkW A
MaaomaaHaHBMBKflHHiBBBMHH Jf M
JfmmL
