WITl
Journal - Miner
PIONEER PAPER OF ARIZONA
PRESCOTT JOURNAL-MINER, WEDNESDAY MORNING, MARCH 22, 191G
FIFTY-SECOND YEAR
ft
fff
fit
fft f$t fit
PLOT FOR ARMED UPRISING IS FRUSTR
INCARGERAIED IN COUNTY JAIL! "LAYING DPI COLD" ON THE
ATED AT JEROME
ORCESSAIDTO BE
AMERICANS
Officers Find That All Ammunition In
Smelter Town Had Been Purchased,
Leaving the White People There
Helpless Against Attack.
As the result of an investigation made by Sheriff Young regard
ing an alleged outbreak planned by between 400 and 500 Mexicans
at Jerome, two men, said to have been the ringleaders of the plot
ters, were brought to Prescott yesterday afternoon and are held
in the county jail. lt&Sr?'
Report- mat -mgnr indicated that Sheriff Young, who is in Je
rome, had sworn in many deputies and was searching for other
Mexicans who are said to have helped plan the raid.
At the sheriffs office last night it was not denied that condi
tions in Jerome had reached a critical stage and that, had not the
two Mexicans "been, arrested'yeste rday, the outbreak mlgh't'have oc
curred at any minute. It is believed, however, that with their
leaders in custody and their plans discovered, the Mexicans will
not attempt to carry out the raid nor molest Americans.
Under Sheriff Tom Marks said last night that the actions of the
Mexicans at Jerome had been very closely watched for
many months by county officials. With the crossing of United
States troops into Mexico in pursuit of Villa, the feeling against
Americans is said to have been fanned into a fever heat by the
leaders of the alleged plot.
Late Sunday night -Sheriff Young received a telephone mes
sage from Jerome asking him to ccme at once and look over the
situation. Young left shortly after with Deputy Sheriff Guy Bo
zarth. Soon after their arrival at Jerome and a hurried investiga
tion of conditions in the Mexican quarter, the two Mexicans were
arrested and rushed to the staticn. They offered no resistance
to arrest. Bozarth took them to Jerome Junction, from where they
were brought to Prescott by Deputy Sheriff Roy Young.
At the county jail, according to Under Sheriff Marks, they re
fused to give their names. Nothing that would indicate their con
nection with any anti-American plot was found in their possession,
said Marks.
"We have feared that the Mexicans at Jerome might cause
trouble for a long time," said Marks. "And we have watched their
actions closely for any suspicious move. I do not think the Mexi
cans are members of any of the tactiens at war in Mexico. I think
that if any raid was planned, they intended to bring about a repeti
tion of the Columbus, N. M., affair and then make a dash for the
border."
On the heels of the discovery of the alleged outbreak, it is said,
Americans at Jerome discovered that the supply of rifle ammuni
tion in stores there had been practically depleted, what cartridges
there were being of calibres rarely used. Had an outbreak occur
red, it is reported, Americans would have been practically helpless.
Telephone messages from Jerome last night indicated that the
Americans there were being kept in the dark regarding the alleged
trouble and the visit of Young and Bozarth. An attempt was also
made to keep the arrests a secret in this city for fear that knowl
edge of them would arouse further ill feeling between the two races.
Young and Bozarth remained at Jerome last night and it is not
known when they will return.
All efforts to locate arms ancr ammunition, believed to have
been hidden by the Mexicans, were reported last night to have
been fruitless.
Villa, Who With The Aid
Of Countrymen, Escaped
To Mountains Of Guerrero
Clash May
Come With
Bandit In A
Short Time
REPORT SAYS HE WAS
DEFEATED NEAR LAS
CRUCES AND IS RE
TREATING NORTHWARD
WHICH WOULD BRING
HIM IN CONTACT WITH
THE U. S. EXPEDITION, f
fJy Associated Press.
SAX ANTONIO, March 20.
Villa may be forced to tight the
American troops witnin two clays
if reports coming to General
Funstoti from Pershing and Mex
ican sources arc correct. Per
shing reported that Villa is said
to have been defeated by Mexi
can government troops near Las
Cruces and is retreating north
ward. This was followed by an
unofficial report that Villa is still
fighting at Namkuipa, south of
Las Cruces. If the Carranza
forces win the fighting, said to be
continuing late today. Villa will
practically be forced -jorthward.
Conditions On West
Coast Unsettled
Ry Associated Press.
SAN DIEGO, March 20. Condi
tions on the West Coast of Mexico
are still unsettled and the prospect
for resumption of general trade far
I distant, according to the captain of
the Minister, a British steamer arriv
ing today.
18 TAKES 2,000
B1NIII
FROM SEAS
WASHINGTON. March 20. The
European war has taken from the
seas more than 2.0()0 merchant ves
sels of nearly 4,000.000 tonnage, ac
cording to the department of com
merce. Germany with rtX) vessels
sunk, captured or detained, heads the
list. Ninety-two neutral vessels havt
been submarined and 94 sunk by
mines.
REGULARS
Nil
ET
FILE
Gunboat Wheeling
I Sent To Tampico
! Detachment Withdraws When Word
Is Received From Bandit That He
Is Not Fighting His Countrymen,
But Their Enemies, -
By Associated Press.
EL PASO, March 20. The forces of Colonel Cano were en
gaged in a battle at 4:30 o'clock this afternoon with bandits led by
Villa at Namiquipa, according to a dispatch received by General
Gavira, the commandant at Juarez. The result of the fighting was
undecided at the time of the receipt of the dispatch. Namiquipa is
in Guerrero district, Chihuahua.
Colonel Cano commands 900 cavalry which two weeks ago
encountered at El Vallo the Villistas who fled.
DISQUIETING RUMORS REACH THE BORDER
:EL PASO, March 20. The Carranza forces today failed to
hold their end which is closing in about Villa and the bandit escap
ed to the mountain haunts of Guerrero, according to reliable infor
mation. Villa's escape was not the most serious item of news
reaching the border. The gravest feature of the situation is sub
stantial confirmation of numerous reports that the Mexican govern
ment troops are not only failing to co-operate with the American
troops, but in a number of instances are actually withdrawing from
the field. It is learned authoritatively that the de facto troops at
Casas Grandes have withdrawn and are new quartered in and about
Juarez. It is also learned that a: least one detachment withdrew
on the approach of Villa, leaving the bandit free to reach the moun
tains south of Namiquipa. The detachment withdrew on receipt of
a message from Villa that he was not fighting Mexicans, but the
enemies of Mexicans.
The movement of the Carranza troops on the border has not
been explained. There is a large staff at headquarters and daily
arrivals of new troops indicate that thr force under General Gavira
is lsrge. Estimates range from 3,000 to 8 COO. It is also reported that
Mexican reinforcements are reaching Agua Prieta and Ojinaga
but their numbers are unknown.
There is a serious and growing uneasiness at El Paso, which is
sharply accentuated by the request of the United States for use of
the Mexican railroads to transport supplies. Americans believe
that Carranza does not dare to grant the request, especially as it is
understood that General Funston intends to taks the train crews
into Mexico and place military guards at the stations. It is feared
the presence of American soldiers on Mexican railroads will surely
provoke outbreaks. There are many indications that the Mexican
railroads are sorely needed by the United States to ship supplies
and troops. The El Paso civil -nd military authorities are not
taking any chances on being caught unprepared.
Five soldiers of Pershing's expedition arrived here today from
Columbus, suffering with illness and accidental injuries suffered at
the front. One infantryman said the Thirteenth cavalry and Fifth
field artillery were IS to 20 miles in advance of the infantry on
the march.
(Courtesy of Los ngelcs Herald
DE FACTO GOVERNMENT PROPOSES PROTOCOL
WASHINGTON, March 20. The de facto Mexican govern
ment proposed to the United States the drafting of a protocol un
der which American and Mexican troops will co-operate in the
chase of Villa without danger of misunderstanding. The negotia
tions will probably last several d2ys, but the two governments are
in agreement upon the general principles.
A1G
DNS
Ry Associated Press.
WASHINGTON, Marcn 20. The
guuhoat Wheeling was today ordered
from New Orleans to southern waters.
It is understood that Tampico, where
there has been unrest in the oil fields
is her destination.
Teutons Use Liquid Fire ;
In Infantry Attack On
French, North Of Verdun
CONCESSIONS
il
IN STANDING
m
UMunn
HAVE CHIP ON SHOULDER
THE HAGUE, March 20. Dutch
newspapers are seriously discussing
the possibility of war with Germany,
a-- a result of the sinking of th
Tubina.
Ry Associated Press.
SAN FRANCISCO, March 20. j
Endorsed by 40,000 sponsors the nom
inating petitions of the 26 delegates
to the Republican national conven
tion, chosen here March 4tn, were
and were also filed in other sections'
of the State The names will be veri
fied by the secretary of State and the
nominees placed on the official ballot.
Ralph Hathorn, manager of the regu
lar Rcpublica-i tickets, said the dele
gates, if elected, will go to Chicago
unpledged.
Midshipmen Fired
For Being Drunk
By Associated Press.
WASHINGTON, Marcn 20. Four
midshipmen were today dismissed
from Annapolis academy for intoxi
cation and shielding intoxicated fellow
students. Their names were with
held. COPPER
NEW YORK, March 20. Electro
lytic Nearby, $28 and $28.50; June
and later, $27 and $27.50.
Ry Associated Press.
LONDON, March 20. Heavy bat
tles arc raging northwest and north
east of Verdun and on the northern
part of the Russian front where the
Russians arc keeping up a strong of
fensive against the Germans.. The
losses have been large hut the enanges
of positions relatively unimportant.
Northwest of Verdun, in the sector
of Avoncourt and Molancourt. the Ger
mans after a terrific bombardment
made a vicious infantry attack, ttsi-ig
liquid fire against the French. A
frcsli German division from remote
parts participated. The French re
pulsed the Germans with heavy losses
except in the western part of Melan
court, and some miles from Verdun,
where slight progress was made by
the Germans. Berlin reports the re
pulse and heavy losses by the Frenca
who attacked the village of Vaux.
In Galicia the Russians captured
Austrian trenches and a bridgehead
; east of the village of Mikhaltchc.
On the Isonzo line the Italians re
captured trenches on Santa Maria
heights. The Russians continue the
pursuit of the Turks in the Caucasia
region and Iwve taken additional
prisoners and guns.
MPA Tfi RP Ufll I NM RP
IU UL , if ILL MUI UL
;ed
COWAN SUPERSEDED
SAN DIEGO, Marcli 20. Colonel
' William A. Glassford was today ap-
pointed ncad of the aviation school
here, succeeding Captain Arthur S.
' Cowan.
o
i GRAIN MARKET
J CHICAGO, March 20. Close: May
wheat 10-T'a. corn 75 g, oats .443.
By Associated Press.
DOUGLAS, March 20. General
Callcs announced at Agua l'rieta that
he is preparing a decree to abolish all
State concessions in Sonora issued by
Jose Maytorena and other former of
ficials under Diaz and Villa. The de
cree will affect many mining, utilities
and commercial firms but will not re
voke the grants to many large Ameri
can firms by the Federal government
of Mexico. New concessions will be
granted immediately, according to
Consul Lelcvier. An effort to reor
ganize Sonora on a more stable basis
is given as the reason.
By Associated Press.
WASHINGTON, March 20. Re
fusing to increase the regular army
provisions of the Hay hill the action
of the house made it almost certain
that the measure will go to the sen
ate as originally framed, by an over
whelming vote. Hay is hopeful for a
final vote tomorrow. Virtually all the
speakers who opposed the amend
ment laid stress on the fact that in
the event of war the nation must rcly
on its citizen-soldiers. They insist-
' cd that the duty of the regulars is to
garrison tne outlying possessions and
I train the national guard and volunteers.
