I f
Now that the world' observing Lent,
Up plour meditation bent,
Old Nick enjoys vacation:
Hut' when the Lenten Benson's o'er
llo'll bo na busy an before,
'Splto nil this agitation.
Richmond Dispatch,
EARLY MOHMXG BLAZE.
Kiro Wedncsdny morning at
o'clock badly damaged tho homo ot
Mr. V. M. Allen on tho Hill City
pike, just outside the city limits. Tho
fire was in the upper story ot the
Jiouso and na there bad never been
j.any. fire there, the supposition is that
It was cnlscd by n defective flun. Most
of tho furnlturo was damaged. The
loss is sovoral hundred dollars, fully
covered by Insurance In the Mason
County Mutual, Tho Mnysvillc Fire
Department went out and saved the
houso from total destruction by the
use of chemical apparatus.
Captain E. R. Montfor, national
commander of tho G. A. It., has ap
pointed Captain D. T. Riggs of Cynthl
nna. ot one ot his four alds-de-camp
for tho Kentucky encampment to be
held at Lexington next mouth.
For all grades ot whiskies and
liquors. Our prices nro right. Order
today. Poyntx Bros., Covington, Ky.
MR. THOMAS LUTTRELL
Washington, March 22. Tho Twcn-
llcnlli of This Well Known mid Vou ty-fourth Infantry, stationed nt Fort
Called Foe lly (Icnornl FiinMon and
Another Regiment Ordered To
Illm Wire Connections
Cut llT lIlllltllK
ular Citizen At UN Home At
Helena Wednesday Morning.
D. A. Itussell, Wyo was ordered to
tho border last night.
mi.- t e-t ... in . u
inu ..iiiHou oiuuy woman aunrago Mr .Vnm t nr.u, hi-
League .will hold l.a regular b.-month- 0; ofsha; o, ' '
y meet ng Thursday at 2 p. n,, at tho Woro mnrrlc Tllesdny Bflornoon V
I'ubllo Library. All Interested In the 0.niooU , ,i, f "L
mill nil Ulliccru BIKI momt)0r8 Ot tltC llnntlof ,li.,M,
v........invn uiu uifci.il w UIJ prosoni, rnoofiil
I'lenso no prompt.
A LICK LLOYD, President
noM.n,
Air. 'i nomas uuiircu, ngcu im, men c0umBug jj.
at his homo nt Helena Wednesday Lnmm,,in.n
M March 22. Wire
between tho United
morning nt 5 o'clock. Ho had been gtntcB nn,, acnera Pershing's punl-
tlorn, Mnrch 15, to Mr. and Airs.
Andrew Holing of Wood street, a fine
Dnn At1r!ftVir Prlwnw.l 1 1. 1
.. . .1 , '"'uiu wuiHUHi i'JUUIl'r III1U
.Innlln tier In linnltti tnr nn tltnn. nut I.. .. . .
" , , , ,, , uvo expedition in nonnern uninuauun son arc doing nicely and fnther is
1101 until recently uiu uib cuiunuui. wu- , B,nn(lBtlll lnBt n cl,t. t Was wnnrlnT n -m In W , h
t t m . . 1 t " " ..wv uiu vuiiiu Uii
como serious, iwiu mr iu.i. 0lolally announced from military Mrs. Holing was formerly Miss Lu
uuuui nun in.x.1 U.O..IU.UU...0, hcadnuartcrs hero. It was asserted 0iia Hamnton.
.. i
icclcu- that thfi nrmv wireless stnt on flt
nir. uuureii wns rccogHiieu u " CnsnB Qrnndes failed shortly before C Tlio Indies Aid Society of tho For
At. if . H,l I I
oi ma leiiuniK lurmurB uiiu o'clock, tho only remaining line of est Avenue M. B. church will meet
raisers of this county, tho fact of Ms communlcntlon Into Mexico being by Thursday afternoon nt 2 o'clock at
having been successful in his pursuits a flc)(, toloRra,,h wlrc whcll im8 been the home ot Mrs. A. Sunler.
snowing nun to nnve uecn a man wno .,, ...,. for B0VcraI (lnvB bo
Knew now to conduct uiu uuuiiu-bb u ,. i. hn . . i., n ,llimiwr f niiiM
hod engaged In. Ho wns a splendid nccs betwecn Columbus and Its tor- JlJUIntY HKA IT Kl I. II
centlomnn. a flno nclchbor and lilfll.i ,. wwi
" ' II1IIIIUH, 111UI) lllllUS HUlllll Ul IUU UUI'
passing is a aisunci loss to uio county. d, ,f ,ho ,.r.nk ln . ,vIr1(.HB la
Mr. Luttrell Is survived by his M- not ropalrcti Bhortly, It was said, It
ow and ono daughter, Mrs. KrniiK , b ncccs8ary t0 doncnd ,inon Ulc
I'ccd or this county, nnu one sister, courIcra to carry disnatches
JirH. t;iiariC3 illllicr Ol Hlliurillll. M.nlnp V I! Hnmt.ln r nmmnn.lnnt
Tho funeral will bo held Friday ho nnounccd that It was discovered
morning nt 10 o'clock at his late yoBterdnv thnt the flold toleirninh line
liomo. ana tno interment win rouow . d . , . twontv-oltiht nlaces.
in the Maysvillo cemetery,
Please omit flowers.
Wlllioyto ot tho
Mr. Hrady Is n sua
young business man of this
city, having lately becomo n partner In
I tho clothing firm of Squires, Hrady
!& Company. Tho Ledger extends con
gratulations to tho bnppy young
couple.
K.M.Mi: TO UK HELKASKI).
Tlio Cincinnati Enquirer says:
"Powd, Cnporal, Emmcr, Anderson
nnd ono other outfielder will bo let
out when tho team gets homo next
week, which will reduce the squad to
twenty men, which is ono under the
limit allowed by tho league."
.1. o.'u. A. 3f. MEETING.
.Maysillle's Scct CloHiln Firm
Makes Its Formal AdtrrlNIng
Appcnrniico Today.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car
Good Order For
Spring
in
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
GOODYEAR
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rira-CuU by the No-Rlm-Cnt feature.
Slowouta by the "On-Air" enrr..
LooiTrJ by many rubber rlrets.
Iniecnrily by 126 braided piano wlrei.
Punclur. and Sklddini by the double
thick All-WeaUier tread.
Elsowliero In tills Issue of The
Public Ledger the nttcntlon of our
readers is directed to the advertise
ment of MavHVillo's newest clnthlnn
eigui mues oi me wire ueing enrneu fIrm squires. Hrady & Company.
away in one piace. no pointed qui Tno momb(.rs of thls flrm nce(, no
uowevcr, mat u was possioie sinco a introduction to tho noonlo of thi. mm.
large pan or tno wire was strung hnunlty nt our hands, as thov are w oil
along tho ground at tho side of the known .yo1Ilg lnen( both Mr Lcm
rondway that some of tho breaks had SnurcB nlld Mr. Nnco ,,rn(ly , v,
U 1... A I t.. . l..,.l.n
uuuu u.iiiBuu uif uiu jmsBins ui 11 iii-iie S(artp(i their career as clothing sales
over them. Ho asserted that .pi-evl- mcn ,,, c... .
ously the wireless station here had ox- cntimnn iln.. ,,nH. f fr.,,0 ,..,,
pericncou some .iiiucuity in operating nrc allx0lls (o sco ,hcm mnlto
ut iiiKiii necause 11 uses tno Bame wave PRB ... .,,,. n,inrnVli... .....i . .1,....
luiiKiim uiu mi-no hi.iiiuii 111 -ir- llavo nnnonnced In tlinlr n,lvnr(Un.
1 1 .. ... ifn r 1 i t-,.. I
iMihiun, u.. cm nuiiuiBtu in m i a- nicnts NOW FOR A MONEY BAV-
nnma. ivr. stautpii
mat norses and mines wun me This now firni havinL-,,i..-ri,!19nfi n,n
American cxpeuiuonary xorce in ontlro slock of r WeBlnv i.nn ti,
TtV I or n tn mi ff rwl tt rw fiiniii li.ni in a I
...vvw DU,.i.....b ...... nro in a snlend il nns tlnn in niYnr
indicated In reports received at the Bomc rcaI nnd Bonu,MO bargnlns ,,
military baso hero from veterinarians ,f yolI aro , tIl0 mnrket for nnythnR
w . expeiuiiuii. incsu imseriuu thor .. , b, .
that twelve muloa worn iiiIkrImc- nnil . i... .1
- " kivu mem a can. Anyway, go
reyuidiiii inui a coiisiKnmeui 01 norse arolind .,,, SM . ..,,.... ,,. , ,
cuppers ue sent uy motor tram at once ti, ui..,i hnu.i." ti.v n-n .i.......l
10 no useu in relieving 111c nnimnis. in of tt
FM 1 t -r - - A 11
iwo airmen j.osr. -Ti10 pul)c ,.,.. ..... .
Tttfrt Hmitnnnnta nt tlm KMfat Anrn . .
"-. nrm n successful career, niwl tn dm
oquauron aro iosi somownero in tue retiring owner. Mr. J. Wesley Leo
I (lncnrt fnnlltllla nf IIia Rlnrrn Mmlro
. D WC1I (lono tl)oij Roo( nntJ
wun uui tnreo onys rations ann two faithful servant'
I small canteons between them nnd star-
Itegular weekly meeting of Lime
stone chapter No. 25G J. O. U. A. M,
tonight at 7:30 o'clock. All members
aro requested to bo present.
WALTER RUDY, Councilor.
Captain John R Klein ot Pittsburg,
bns purchased tho Queen City, which
has been In tho docks for moro than
two years.
fMonarch Coffee
Has no equal in Maysville. Satisfaction our
guarantee: 35c per pound, 3 pounds for $1.
Try a pound today.
S Dinger Bras., 102 fSS Bt-
M
I
H
Si
N
m
n
s
E1
M
a
M
ra
SMART AXI) ATTItACTIVE NEW
WALLFAl'EU IIESIGNS AT HEX-
nmcKsox's.
Mrs. J. C. Rogers and Mrs. Gcorgo
C. Keith aro In Cincinnati today to
,eeo "Princess Pat ' at tho Lyric.
WE HAVE
a fresh stock of all rubber necessaries. No old stock.
See our line of Hot Water Bottles, Fountain
Syringes, etc.
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
"AT THE CORNER"
8
M
All tho latest patterns In wallpaper
at CRANE & SHAPER'S.
WANTED An experienced stcnow
graphor. Ohio Valley Pulley Works.
9
THE HOME DF QUALITY GLOTHES
This Store is Crowded With
THINGS FOR SPRING
Everything that is right and many things that are bright are now ready for the eye
glance of the discriminating man or young man. While we feel that we have clothes in abun
dance, we are frank in saying that the quantity of each style is limited to a moderate number,
thus assuring exclusiveness to those who purchase. You may pay from $15 upwards, but pay
what you choose, you will receive excellent value, and by excellent value we mean correct
style, perfect fabric and individuality in every detail.
An advance shipment of style ideas has just been received from our Tailors at Fashion
Park. To try to describe these styles would be a mistake. You must see them.
Mothers, we want you to come in and see the smart spring styles in high-grade, service
able suits for boys. Two pair of pants to each suit.
D. nEOPHTSTCS-ER. &. CO.
ration, It wns olflclally made known at
WE SQUARE OUK DEEDS TO OUR military headquarters here. Army of-
mUtll.V fleers do not credit reports In Co-
In the selling of lumber. You'll find lumbus that the two lieutenants may
that when we say It is thoroughly have- fallen victims of snipers,
dried and seasoned that It Is so. You
will learn that when wo promiso a de
liver yat a certain time the lumber
will bo on tho Job at that time or be
fore.
KILLED BY TRAIN
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone and Second Streets.
Phone 519.
A. A. McLaughlin.
Was Loral Muii'h Ilrotlier At Hamilton
Last Friday Jlornlng.
Concerning tho accidental death of I
Plowing Time I
S Will He Mere, Just As boon As :
E the Sun Shines Hot
so, be ready, Farmers, to take advantage
ol" tlie first pretty days. We are ready
for you, with a splendid line of Plows, both
Oliver and Sycrause, Points, Handles,
Shares, Mouldboards, etc. Just phone us
your wants.
If you need a good Rake, Hoe, Mat
tock, Ax, Fork, or, in fker, any tool needed
on the farm, just tell it to us. We have
good ones in stock, at the right prices.
Just received, a shipment of the neat
est Wheelbarrows you over saw. Need
one?
Yours, for good Plowing Weather,
soon.
I Ailom I. .1 n I . T T ... 1 1 . f 1
Jj II Behfln.1 "llvoivmui( uu tuuuinuu, J.t l
jusi rriuay, mention oi wnicn was
made in Tho Ledger without partlcu
lars, the Hamilton Evening Journal
has this artlclo:
At C:30 o'clock Friday morning the
southbound C. H. & D. work train hit
a man going north on tho now river
bridgo with his lunch basket and
hurled him to tho banks of tho river
somo distanco below.
Tho man's Identity was for some
timo In doubt and was only established
by William Schramm, who recognized
the body as that of Adam Eppen
stcincr, forraorly of Cokeotto and vl
clnlty.
Kppenstciuer had worked In the
coRo works until a month ago, when
ho secured work as a laborer In the
machlno shop of tho Hoovon, Owens
& Hontschler Company, on tho night
shift.
This morning ho left as usual with
his lunch basket and was hit and kill
ou by tho work train whllo colnc
home.
fcppenstelner Ib survived by tho
widow nnd two sons and two daugh
ters, tnio of his sons being tho well
known pugilist.
"EppciiBtoIncr' leg were both brok
en and ho sustained four fractures of
his skull which caused his death
short time aftor tho accident."
S
No War Prices on Silks at Hunt's
llavo you examined the duality of our Creno do Chines at $1.19? Of our Hadluin Silks at $t 25? Everv condition ot tho silk market
would justify higher prices. These silks wcro dyed while tho best Imported colors wero still obtainable, consequently they have tho luster
and oxqulsito shades such dyes only can produce.
There Is a wide range of colors, Including white, Ivory and black. Thcso silks aro 40 Inches wide, full weight, very supple, and extremely
rich In appearance. Positively no silks of llko quality will bo obtainable at tho price after these aro sold. It Is an economic opportunity no
woman can nfford to neglect.
The New Rugs For $15.00
From a manufacturer whose rugs rank with tho best mado In America; woven of pure wools nnd worsted with close, heavy pile. Tho pat
terns arc splendid Orlentnl styles; bold medallion figures and neat allover effects, perfect In every way. Seamless of course. Room size.
Largo assortment.
For the Woman Whose Suit Price Is $25.00
Wo have a stock It will pay her to see. Wo Invito very careful comparison of these suits with others nt tho samo price. If you will com
paro tho fabrics, tho workmanship, tho finish and tho stylo, remembering that our suits are absolutely all-wool, tho decision will be In oun
favor. Wo know it. And ln knowing It wo have no hesitancy In saying so squaroly.
Our prlco this .week for buttcrfat,
37 cents, Maysville.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
Mrs. Frank Smith nnd son Frank Our now Sprlug wallpapers aro
of East Second street, aro spending a ready for your Inspection. Como In.
fow days with relatives at Covington, CRANE & SlIAFER.
Mr. Henry McCIanahan, who has
been speudlng a few days hero with
relatives, has returned to Cincinnati.
LYCEUM.
Those who heard tho address at tho
High School auditorium Tuesday night
by James A. Uurns, "tho man of the
mountains," pronounce It one of the
most interesting and Instructive ovor
delivered In this city.
SOME OAK.
Dr. W, S. Yazoll has purchased of
Kirk Bros., a haudsomo six-cylinder
Hudson roadster. "Doc." will cer
tainly have no trouble In climbing the
hills with this car.
Dllmoro Ravcncroft the Infant son
4 cam bt l'uwpkk 0Bly....25 cents 8 cms good TowIom only.. .85 certs P( Mr. and Mre, Joe Ravencroft, died
ucb euwu ru norm luuru v nuumuiu tvi. no uw uvt neut lu tan iui iuuuiuuiu a inu HOinq Ot Dig pftr.1
ri'' W, pvr, eiU Tuwday. Funeral and burial at
'flHIK UMMA1 . ' Km t Beaaley at 18 oloclr,
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
ftutterick April Fashions
land delineators Jfave
jflrrivedr
Butterick patterns are used by Paris Dressmakers-
J able endorsement of their authenticity.
a remark-
LOWEST PRICES OF THF YEAR
I cm, kmiI Con only a nut. I ok. beat Li. HomIdt oBlr-23
The April Delineator opens the door of Fashions when Spring
comes knocking. The new Shoulder Cape Is worked out In Pattern
No. 8304 among other Informatloi as to styles. The Delineator Is
15c a copy.
Shoes
Repaired
While
You
Wait
and
Made
Like
New
I
ip
.".5,
