VOLUME XXXVII.
COUNCIL STRIKES
WAR PRICE SNAGS
ORIGINAL ESTIMATE OF $2000
EXPENDITURE GROWS TO
OVER $6,000.
NEW PUMP AND REPAIR OF OLD
MACHINERY AMONG COUN-
CIL PLANS.
From a contemplated expenditure
estimated at a little over $2,000 for the
installation of a new pump at the water
.works, the city council is now facing an
investment of over $6,000, according
to the bids submitted by the several
contractors at last Monday evening's
adjourned meeting. The bids called for
the repair of the old Luitweiler pump at
the station and the installation of another
deep well pump, large enough to permit
the direct connection with the mains at
the station and pumping the water into
I the Center street hill reservoir.
The bids submitted at the meeting
I were as follows: Union Machine Co.,
$6,158 for a new pump and $1,139 for
repairs Minneapolis Engineering Co.,
$5,025 for new pump and $1,187 for re
pairs J. G. Robertson, St. Paul, $5,000
for the new pump and $837 for the re
pairs necessary to the Luitweiler pump.
The last named bid probably will be
he only one considered by the council,
as it not only is the lowest of the three
bids, but also meets the requirements of
the city. Mr. Robertson has installed
several of the pumps now in use at the
local plant and is familiar with the re
quirements to a greater extent than his
competitors. He was present at the
meeting of the council and explained the
workings of the proposed new pump as
well as the repairs which would be
necessary to put the old pump into con
dition for use in an emergency.
Although the matter of delivery did
not enter into the competitive bidding
the interesting fact was brought out
during the discussion that the manu
facturers are at present working right
up to their capacity and cannot make
deliveries short of from sixty to one
hundred and twenty days. This con
dition seems to apply also to the manu
facturers of electrical machinery, the
•.representatives of electrical machines
present at the meeting stating that de
liveries of less than sixty days are out of
the question.
That the city council is face to face
with a serious problem is apparent. Ac
cording to a statement by Supt. Mueller
the city will in the case of a dry summer
be unable to meet the demands of the
water users even if all of the present
equipment is run to its full capacity.
The well on Center street hill can not
be depended upon to furnish a great
deal of water, although the pump at that
place is large enough to furnish consider
able more.
The present plans of the council in
clude a change at the pumping plant
which it is believed will reduce the cost
of pumping. The plan is to do away with
the storage of water in the German Park
reservoir and connect up the mains direct
with the new pump. In order to do
this a number of changes are necessary
in order to prevent damage to the main?
through uneven pressure incident to the
working of the pump. The bids include
an air chamber to take this up.
Because of the complicated technical
wording of the bids the council decided
to refer all the bids to the water and
light committee for thorough inverti
gation and Friday evening hold an ad
journed session to dispose of the matter
finally.
Several building permits were sub
mitted to the council, but as some of
them did not meet the requirements of
the fire ordinance, they were laid over
to be taken up tt the adjourned meeting
Friday evening.
Mr. Aufderheide appeared before the
council on behalf of the New Ulm Brick
& Tile Works. The members of the
council had practically decided to use an
outside brick in the construction of the
new building at the cemetery and he
urged the council to set the example of
patronizing home industry by using the
cement brick manufactured by his firm.
As the contractor is about ready to begin
work on the new building the sanitary
committee was instructed to take the
matter up with the contractor to see how
long he would wait if Mr. Aufderheide
is given a chance to manufacture the
brick desired by the council. The brick
proposed for the cemetery building is not
carried in stock at the local brick yards,
but according to Mr. Aufderheide can be
manufactured by the first part of June.
CREDIT TRICKSTERS AT WORK.
Farmers Duped Into Purchase of
Stock Later Found Valueless
By Investors.
Farmers throughout the country seem
to have been victimized by smooth
tongued agents of so-called co-operative
investment companies and while the
companies themselves may not come
under the ban of the post office depart
ment, it is possible that civil actions will
be started against them unless they mend
the ways of their agents. A number of
the victims have reported the matter
to the federal department of agriculture
and a warning is now being sent out as a
result.
In some of these letters the complaint
is made that the agents selling the stock
make misrepresentations as to when
loans may be obtained by subscribers
and that the companies later disclaim
responsibility for the statements made
by the agents. In a number of instances,
farmers seem to have gained the idea
from the agent that they would be able
to secure loans within a relatively short
time, and express disappointment on
realizing that they must wait for an in
definite period for the promised loan and
go on making payments just the same
on the stock which they have agreed to
take.
Where farmers are confronted with a
proposition of this character, they should
first read the prospectus and the contract
very carefully and make sure that they
know exatly what these mean, especially
the contract. If the contract is so
worded that its meaning is not clear after
a careful reading, this in itself should be
reason enough for extra caution. The
agent's explanation of the contract is not
a part of the contract, nor is his promise
that the company will do things not
specified in the contract by any means
sure to be recognized by the company.
Farmers ought, first, to find out what
provision has been made for the pro
tection of the interests of subscribers,
either through responsible Government
supervision over the activities of the
company, or in any other way, and if
they are in., doubt they should, consult
competent advisors with regard -to the
responsibility of the company before pay
ing over, or agreeing to pay over, their
own good money. Always, in the matter
of subscription to stock in any kind of a
company, they should exercise caution.
REMOTE PRECINCTS MUST MAIL
ELECTION RETURNS.
There seems to have been considerable
doubt as to the distance for which mileage
may be collected by the election judges
in calling for the ballots previous to the
election and the delivery of the returns
to the county auditor when the ballots
have been counted. One of the county
auditors appealed to the state public
examiner for an opinion, and Andrew E.
Fritz in answering explains that the law
provides that where the polling place is
mote than ten miles from the auditor's
office, he shall send the ballots and
supplies to village and town clerks, and
judges of election in unorganized towns,
by registered mail or express. If the
polling place is within ten miles of the
auditor's office, then such clerks and
judges may go there to receive the ballots
and supplies and receive one dollar and
mileage therefor. Those persons re
ceiving ballots and supplies by mail are
not allowed any compensation therefor.
In making returns the same distance
limit applies, so that where the polling
place is within ten miles of the auditor's
office the judges may make the returns
in person and receive compensation at the
same rate as above. Otherwise these
documents must be mailed, the officer
being allowed one dollar and mileage to
the nearest post office.
SUNDAY SCHOOL CONVENTION
AT AUSTIN
Cne thousand Sunday school workers
from every county of the State and from
every protestant denomination will
gather at Austin for the Fifty eighth An
nual Convention of the Minnesota Sun
day School Association April 26-30.
Austin extends a royal welcome to
the Sunday school hosts of Minnesota,
and will entertain all delegates on the
Harvard Plan (lodging and breakfast
free). Every Sunday school in Minne
sota is entitled to send delegates.
Ten of the greatest Sunday school Ex
perts in America will be on the program
which covers four days and five evenings
and consists of eight mass convention
sessions, and twelve "School of Methods"
sessions. It will be an educational,
inspirational and spiritual feast. The
program covers every phase of Sunday
school activity. Complete programs
will be ready for mailing about April 1st.
WEAKER BOWLERS
GIVEN HANDICAP
EVENLY MATCHED CONTESTS
ROLLED ON CONCORDIA CLUB
ALLEYS.
MERCHANTS HANG UP PRIZES
FOR LEADERS IN VARIOUS
EVENTS.
More than fifty local bowling enthu
siasts participated in the handicap
tournament rolled on the Concordia Club
alleys from Thursday afternoon until
Sunday evening and although the match
passed off good-naturedly there was a
keen rivalry for first honors in the singles,
doubles and five-men events. The
scratch men of whom there were about
25 had to go at top speed because of the
handicaps given those bowlers whose
average during the past season had been
below 160. Some of the lesser lights
among the bowling fraternity entered the
contest with as many as 75 to 80 pins
already to their credit, but Stelljes and
Winkelmann, the former with a handicap
of 63 and the latter with 75 were the
only ones to land among the first five in
the singles, Seifert, Huhn and H. Dahms,
all scratch men, being the other three.
The handicap men had better luck in the
doubles where Hackbarth and Mueller
and H. Grussendorf and Bierbaum topped
the list, with the two scratch cracks,
Wicherski and Waibel in third place.
In the five-men event the Old Spavs with
their total handicap of 198 pins held the
Trailers to their title and walked away
with first money.
Although the entrance fees were di
vided 'among the prize winning teams
there were enough special prizes offered
by the merchants of the city to make
the tournament of interest to even the
poorest of the bowlers as well as the best.
First prize $5.00
Second prize 3.00
Third prize 2.50
Fourth prize 2.00
DOUBLES.
First prize $2.50
Second prize 2.00
Third prize l. 80
Fourth prize l. 60
Fifth prize l. 50
Sixth prize .'.. l. 10
Seventh prize l. 00
Eighth prize l. 00
Ninth prize l. 00
SINGLES.
First prize $2.00
Second prize 1.75
Third prize 1.25
Fourth prize 1.00
Fifth prize 1.00
Sixth prize 1.00
Seventh prize 75
Eighth prize .60
Ninth prize 60
Tenth prize 55
Eleventh prize 50
Twelfth prize 50
SPECIAL PRIZES.
The rules of the contest did not permit
any one bowler to win more than one of
(Continued on Page 2)
Both the resources and deposits of
Brown county's sixteen banks have
taken a jump forward during the past
two months according to the statements
rendered ,the federal and state comp
trollers made March 13 as to the con
dition of the banking institutions March
7. The total resources show a gain over
the reports made January 6, of over a
quarter of a million dollars and the de
posits have increased from $6,349,874.80
in January to $6,589,798.14 this month,
a net gain of $239,923.34. The slight
slump in the deposits noted in the period
Total.
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 1916.
The cash prizes apportioned by the
committee having the match in charge
were as follows: .. ... -.,..,-been,.suggested
FIVE MEN. '-,
Citizens State Bank of New Ulm $1,968,702.02
State Bank of Springfield 758,042.37
First National Bank of Sleepy Eye 730,241.89
State Bank of Sleepy Eye 578 971.98
Farmers and Merchants, Sleepy Eye 564,186.08
State Bank of New Ulm 518,077.75
Brown County Bank, New Ulm 425|556.39
First National Bank, Springfield
9
Farmers and Merchants, New Ulm 327,249.00
First State Bank, Comfrey.
State Bank of Hanska
Farmers State Bank, Comfrey.
State Bank of Evan
Security State Bank, Hanska..
State Bank of Cobden
LITTLE INTEREST
IN CITY ELECTION
S WARD CONTEST ONLY ONE
TO LEND EXCITEMENT TO
EVENT.
NO SUITABLE CANDIDATE AP-
PEARS AS SUCCESSOR TO
MUELLER.
Prospective candidates for city offices
will have to hurry if they want to get
their names on the ballots for the regular
spring election, as the time limit in which
candidates may file their petitions will
expire next Saturday, March 25th. Up
to the present time but very little in
terest has been taken in the choosing of
new city officials as there is only one
contest to be decided, that being between
Herman Nagel and Fred Behnke, can
didates for aldermanic honors in the First
Ward.
Mayor Fritsche has a clear field for
xe-eiection as had been anticipated at the
time he made up his mind to be a can
didate for the office again. The same
applies to City Treasurer Oswald and
City Clerk Backer, the latter serving his
first term as a city official. The two
jusices of the peace, N. Henningsen and
Col. J. Buschers, also seem to have a
clear field for re-election
Several candidates are said to be in
the field for office of constable, but as no
petitions have been circulated it will be
necessary for the voter to write the name
of his favorite candidates upon the blank
space left for that purpose on the ballot.
No new candidates have sprung up in
the third ward, where a successor to F.
H. Retziaff is to be elected and it seems
Christ Filzen will have a clear field at the
polls. There had been some talk of
another candidate but friends of Mr.
Filzen have urged that he be given a
chance to show that he is of aldermanic
calibre and the several names which had
have been withdrawn.
The choosing'of a successor to Alder
man Mueller in the Third Ward is still
an unsolved problem. Mr. Mueller an
nounces positively that he will not stand
for a re-election and so far there has been
no one sugested who is willing to neglect
his business or personal affairs for the
empty honor of representing the ward
in the council. There seem to be several
factions in this ward, each waiting for. the
other co make the first move in the
naming of a candidate and in order to
restore peace and harmony it has been
suggested to let election go by default
and return Mr. Mueller to the council
whether he wants the job or not.
Election day will be April 11th this
year. The first and only registration day
has been set for Tuesday, March 28th, at
which time the judges of election will be
at the several polling places for the
registration of those voters whose names
do not appear on the present list of
qualified voters.
N ew Ulm will at least have one base
ball team this year. At a meeting of
the Gonzaga club of the Catholic church
they decided to have a baseball team.
A. F. Groebner was elected business
manager and R. Baasen was elected
captain and field manager.
SHOW HEALTHY INCREASES
from November to January, amounting
to a little more than $15,000, has been
completely overcome and wiped out by
a good margin of over $150,000.
The comparison with the statements
issued at the beginning of the year 1915
and that of the present month is even
more favorable, showing an increase
in deposits of nearly half a million dollars
and an increase in the resources of $704,
772.65.
The statements issued by the sixteen
banks of the county show their resources
and deposits as follows:
Resources
Deposits
$1,799,355.88
711,359.15
433,784.92
536,275.76
528,512.98
462,303.04
375,403.68
344,381.98
267,167.10
.252,730.99
244,225.68
222,902.17
126,807.22
104,682.16
79,486.56
403,522.94
284,130.88
275,285.30
250,329.60
146,817.01
129,783.33
91,486.56
$7,564,912.20
$6,589,798.14
NEW OVERSEER APPOINTED
Commissioners Name C. N. Wal
bert As Successor To Late Arnold
Gulden At Poor Farm
C. N. Walbert was chosen by the
board of county commissioners as suc
cessor to the late Arnold Gulden as over
seer of the poor farm and his salary was
set at $52.50 per month out of which the
the new overseer must pay the hired
girl generally employed at the poor farm.
The salary paid the former overseer was
$45.00 per month, but the county also
paid the hired girl's wages amounting
to $20. The position was one much
sought for and a dozen or more applica
tions were considered by the board.
The board also made quite a saving
in the salary of the county physician
over the amount paid out in former
years. A few years ago the several
physicians who were called to attend
county patients drew something over
$2,000 for their services, but a year ago
this was cut down to $1,000 by the ap
pointment of a county physician and
the fixing of the salary at that figure,
Dr. O. J. Seifert being the appointee.
This year the job of county physician
went to the lowest bidder, Dr. J. H.
Vogel, for $250 per year, and he will
have to attend to the calls in the first
and third commissioner districts and
furnish the necessary medicines. The
other bidders for the position were Dr.
Seifert and Dr. Schoch, the former bid
ding $750 and the latter $400.
The sum of $500, was appropriated
for the Brown County Agricultural So
ciety for improvements contemplated
at the fair grounds during the present
year. Messrs. A. J. Vogel and J. A.
Ochs appeared before the board on be
half of the society.
TURNVEREIN SELECTS STATE
CENTRAL COMMITTEE.
In accordance with the action taken
at the recent state convention of the
Minnesota Turnbezirk selecting the local
Turnverein as the state central society,
the following state central committee
was elected at the meeting of the Turn
verein last Saturday evening Alb.
Steinhauser, Herman Hein, Henry Engel,
Fred Pfaender, Alf. Schroeck, Aug.
Marschner, Chas. Hauenstein, Otto Os
wald, George Hogen. This committee
will rrieet next Saturday evening at which
time the state officers will be elected.
The society also decided* to dispose of
one of its lots on State street near the
Union hospital, one of the members
having made an offer which seemed fair
and acceptable.
LAFAYETTE FARMER HAS MIX
WITH BUZZ SAW.
While helping around a circular saw
used for cutting wood on the S. M.
Swenson farm in Lafayette last Wednes
day, Chas. D. Erickson took on the saw
for a one-round go. The result was a
complete victory for the machine, and
Mr. Erickson came off with a badly
lacerated leg and foot. He had at
tempted to kick away a lot of sawdust
which had accumulated under the
machine, but misjudged the distance and
came in contact with the sharp teeth.
The felt boot and rubber overshoe
which he wore were cut into shreds and
mixed with the flesh and broken pieces
of bone. The attending physician took
twelve stitches to close the wound.
Although- it will take Mr. Erickson a
long time before he can again make any
use of his leg it is not thought that there
will be any more serious consequences
or permanent disability.
'THE MAKING OF A NEW RACE",
DR. GREYS TOPIC.
Last Monday evening at the German
Methodist church of this city Dr. John
Archer Grey of Jackson, Mich., delivered
his lecture on "The Making of a New
Race." Dr. Grey is well known here
and a large number of people heard the
lecture.
For several years Dr. Grey has been
a close student of sociology, laying es
pecial emphasis on the problems arising
out of a class of people, popularity known
as the "Hobo." The speaker said that
to a large degree the "Hobo" class is a
necessary product of conditions which
exist in society and that therefore society
has a duty to perform in trying to re
claim these unfortunates.
Great interest is being shown in these
directions all over the country. In
Minneapolis there is now in the process
of construction what is called "Brother
hood Temple." The purpose of this
Temple is to help the man who is down
and out and to render him assistance in
such a way that it will be of real and
lasting benefit.
NUMBER 12
CREDIT BUREAU IS
A VITAL NECESSITY
MILL CITY EXPERT EXPLAINS
COMPLEX PROBLEM OF
PROPER RATING.
LOCAL MERCHANTS WILL DIS
CUSS FORMATION OF CLUB
NEXT FRIDAY.
No large business enterprise, either
wholesale or retail, can get along or grow
without a large amount of credit business,
according to O. R. Parker, manager of
the Minneapolis Credit and Rating
Bureau, who spoke to the business men
of New Ulm at the Commercial Club
rooms last Friday evening. In a pros
perous community this is true to a
greater extent even than in sections of
the country where adverse conditions
prevail. Credit business is necessary
and has come to stay. What the
merchant of today must look out for
is to protect himself from the professional
deadbeat usually found in life floating
population of the larger cities.
A system of rating must be established
which will minimize the losses incident
to bad debts. A rating of that sort can
not be established with any degree of
reliability for all business men collectively
but each individual business man must
follow his own rules even after he has
been notified of the fact that certain
persons are slow pay or undesirable
customers. A number of things must be
taken into consideration, among them
the kind of business the prospective
creditor is in and the kind of debts the
man asking for credit has neglected or
failed to pay. Mr. Parker gave a number
of instances among customers of Minne
apolis stores where they are absolutely
gilt-edged and still are slow pay.
The giving of credit and the system of
rating revolves around the three C's,
'capital, character and capacity. While
the first probably is the first essential to
the credit men, the character of the man
asking for credit is really the thing that
counts. A man may have an income
say of $3,000 a year. That would be his
capital stock with which to do business
with the merchants. If he manages to
spend this amount, however, and several
hundred dollars more, his credit rating
would not compare favorably with the
one given a man who earns but two
dollars a day and manages to live within
that income. The worst class of ac
counts according to Mr. Parker are those
of the "good fellows" whom it is
almost impossible to refuse credit.
The speaker stated that one of the
large department stores doing business
in Minneapolis to the extent of over two
million dollars a year has the credit
rating down to such a fine point that
their losses amount to less than one
tenth of 1 per cent. Others again where
the margin of profit is a great deal larger
suffer a greater per cent of losses because
of a more liberal policy of giving credit.
Minneapolis has the matter of rating
down to a science. When a new family
takes up residence in the Mill City its
record is immediately looked into before
credit is asked for. The information is
gathered from various sources, some
from the banks and some from the
record the family has left behind at its
former, place of residence. In no case
do they take snap judgment. All of the
information is gathered first and then
dovetailed so as to form a complete
record.
Mr. Parker was in doubt as to how the
merchants of New Ulm could proceed
along this line as the city really is too
small to employ a salaried secretary or
manager and without this the scheme
would be apt to prove a failure because
the information gathered should be avail
able at a moment's notice. The idea of
giving each family's rating to every
business man would prove a failure be
cause each family's rating would soon
become public property and libel suits
would be the result in many instances.
A plan was suggested to the business
men present, however, and it is possible
that this will be put into effect. A
meeting of the business men of the city
is called for next Friday evening at the
rooms of the Commercial Club at which
time the feasibility of organizing a credit
and rating association will be thoroughly
discussed.
An illustrated lecture on India will be
given at the Congregational church next
Sunday evening by Rev. Arthur Mc
Bride, who has made a first hand study
of the subject, having been a resident of
that country for a number of years. The
lecture is free and the general public
cordially invited.
4
-fj
•a
"Si
£1
.:- r%t% (i
