THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. G.
1IAUKK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 1910.
P1UCK, OXE CENT.
f 7
FLANK
MOVE
TRIED
Germans Have Halted Their
Infantry Drive, However,
Until the Big Guns Have
Blasted a Way in the Vi
cinity of Hancourt Hill,
Near Avocourt Wood
THRUST WAS HALTED
AT LATTER PLACE
On the Eastern Bank of the
Meuse, There Was Contin
ued Intense Artillery Fire
Near Vaux and Damloup
Russian Fleet Active in
Black Seay
DENIES GERMANY ASKED
FOR PEACE MEDIATION
Wiishington, 1). C, March 2.
President Wilson was represented
at tlit White House to-day iu be
ing resentful of the puhlicu t ion of
stories tliiit Ambassador (ierard
had ri'ortJ ticnuauy was about
to inn k a move fur peace. Tim
published report were character
ized a lieing based on inference.
The following statement mm is
u ml :
"President Wilson through Sec
retary Tumulty to-day authoriwd
it denial of the stories appearing in
tlio papers to the effect that t ho
purpose of Gerard In remaining in
Jkrlin was to await Germany's
proposal for pence. There is no
justification for that inference bo
nig drawn."
Unofficial report reached here
to-day that Ambassador (ierard
actually had KtjKiied his vaca
tion but pave no reason. The
titute department issued the fol
lowing statement:
"Any statement that the Ger
nian government intimated a de
sire that this government act a
mediator in peace negotiations or
in any way suggested formally or
infornuUly that thii government
should take thu matter up with
other power in absolutely without
foundation, and the state depart- .
n icnt him no information that Ger
many is preparing to make a defi
nite move in the direction of
peace."
The stato department officials
were Raid to be resentful at the
publication of the report because
they said if thero wore any pos
sible mediation it would be dam
aged if not destroyed.
FEAR VILLA
HAS ESCAPED
FROM THE NET
AN INTERESTING SUIT
The battle for Verdun, now well in its
fourth week, continues with intensity
but just at present the infantry is being
held in leash while the big guns prepare
the way for further assaults. The pow
erful German thrust to the west of the
Meuse on tHe edge of the Argonne region,
which developed early this week, halted
when it reached the edge of Avocourt
! wood, but the activity of the German ar
tillery in this sector, which Paris reports
to-day particularly against Hauoourt
hill northeast of Avocourt, indicates that
the German intention probably is to
make further determined attempts at
progress in this important flanking move-
. mcnt.
The situation on the eastern bank of
e Meuse is unchanged but here too the
artillery fire continues to be intense, par
ticularly near Vauz and Damloup in the
sector where violent attacks were made
before the infantry activity shifted to
the Dther bank of the river.
Russian warships are reported active
in the ' Black sea, where . the 7,000-ton
German steamer Esperanza, said to be
loaded with foodstuffs, has been sunk off
the Rumanian coast, according to a news
agency dispatch from Bucharest. The
sinking of a score of, small sailing ships
is also reported.
tipper Alsace, the French guns have been
active against German positions and
marching columns. On the river nomine
the Germans entered a British trench,
but immediately were driven out.
BELITTLE RUSSIAN OFFENSIVE.
Berlin Says Czar's Troops Have Gained
No Success.
i 1
Berlin, via London, March 22. The vicinity of Namaqitipa caused army oin
General Pershing's Failure
to Report Encounter of
His Troops with Villa's
Men and Absence of News
from Mexican Sources Is
So Construed at San An
tonio
TWO U. S. AVIATORS
ARE NOT HEARD FROM
Search for Lieutenants Gor
rell and Willis Is Being
Kept Up They Are but
Meagrely Suppb'ed with
Rations and Water, and
Fears for Their Safety
Are Felt
San Antonio, Tex., March 22. General
'ersliing' failure to report an encounter
of his troops with those of Villa and the
absence of news from Mexican sources
relative to the outcome of fighting be-
ween Villa and C'arranza troops in the
Kus.-til.Hi9 have gained no success in their
great extended offensive against the Ger
man lines, the war office announced today.
TURKS EVACUATE FORTRESS.
Erhinjan, 120 Miles from Erzerum, Left
to Russians.
London, March 22. A Bucharest dis
patch forwarded from Amsterdam by the
Central News says tin Turks have evac
uated Erhinjan fortress of Asia Minor,
120 miles from Erzerum.
ARMOR PLATE PRICE
CUT WHEN SENATE
VOTED FOR FACTORY
cers at Fort Sam Houston to-day to be
lieve that Villa has escaped.
The fate of Lieutenants Edward J.
Gorrell and Robert IT. Willis, jr., who
failed to reach Casas Grandes is unknown
at General Funston's headquarters.
It was announced at Funston's head
quarters that the 6th cavalry, one squad
ron of which Is at Fort Myer, Va., and
In Which American News Vending Co.
and Others Are Defendants.
Burlington, March 22. The considers
tion of the suit of Gardner It. Arnold of
Burlington vs. E. X. Noiners, et al, an
action in which the plaintiff seeks to re
cover $ 10,000 from the shove-named de
fendant and six others, including the
American New Vending eomnny of St
Jolinsbury, the Eureka News Vending
company of 1'lutt slung, ., ., and t. M
Abbott, Charles Weeks, J. E. Alexander
A. I". J Add and Dr. W. J. Aldrieh. former
ollicials and directors of the American
News Vending company of St. Jolinsbury
for the alleged fraudulent sale of the
njit.nt. rit'htu territory if the state of
New York, in which tlie plaintiff wassto
sell the vending tiuclune of the Ameri
can News Vending company, was liegiui
at yesterday afternoon sermon of tint
tenden county court. But one witness
E. X. Homers, wss called yesterday
afternoon and the cane will probably
continue during the entire week.
In his opening statct:unt to the jury,
.Mr. Isullard said that lie wouhl show
that Mr. Arnold on Oct. 24, 1!U4, met
J. h. Alexander, a sulesman for the
American News Vending comjiany of St.
Johnbury, a corporation manufacturing
machines for the vending of newspapers.
magazines, drinking cuim, toi.et paper,
etc., who was selling stock in tins cor
im ration and also the patent right to
certain territory, and tluit Mr. Alexander
induced Mr. Arnold to buy with him the
patent rights to the state of New York
for $12,000 and also to' buy $2,000 worth
of tools from the American News Vend
ing company, with which to make their
machines, each man agreeing to pay one-
half of this amount, or $7,000 in all for
each one. The evidence would also show.
Mr. Bullard stated, that Mr. Arnold did
pay $7,000 to the American News Vend
ing company as per agreement and was
led to believe that Mr. Alexander paid a
similar amount, but that the latter paid
nothing, and that through these fraudu
lent representations Mr, Arnold lost his
entire investment. N Counsel for the de-
femlant reserved their opening statement.
E. X. Somcrs of Diuiville, formerly of
St. Jolinsbury, where he was president
of the American News Vending company,
was the first witness called by the plain
tiff's counsel, lie testified to a contract
between the American News Vending
company and fJ. B. Arnold and J, E.
Alexander, the terms of which were sub
stantially as stated above, but claimed
that Alexander arranged the terms of
payment. The terms of the contract
called for the payment of $12,000 from
Arnold and Alexander to the American
News Vending company, in sums of j
$.1,000, $5,000 and four of $1,000 each, for
the patent rights to the mnmtfsicture and
sale in the state of New York of the
MAYBE 30 DEAD;
'3,500,000 LOST;
FIRE BURNS ON
From 1,500 to 2,000 Dwell
ings and Entire Business
Section of Paris, Texas,
Destroyed, and 10,000 Peo
ple Have Been Rendered
Homeless
GALE BLEW FLAMES
. IN RAPID MARCH
The Food Supply Is Serious
Problem, as Every Hote
Restaurant and Grocery
Store Was Burned Paris
Is Located in the North
east Section of Texas
i.. - r... t , t- , j company a machine, the witness iden-
another at rort Leavenworth, Kan., ana ... ', , . . ,f t . .
, . ... i nin. il i ll vnt-v ib ui .111. niuuid in
the third at tort M.cndan, III., would oe;,xlVment of his half of this money, or
Paris, Tex., March 22. With approxi
mately 10,000 persons homeless, the en
ire btnmieus section burned out am:
from 1,600 to 2,500 dwellings destroyed
the lire which started bite yesterday
afternoon was still burning to-day. The
property loss, it is estimated, will reach
$3,500,000. I'neonnrmed reports said
that from 10 to 30 lives were lost.
The thousands who are homeless are
being cared for to-duy in private resi
dences, railway stations and the few re
maining public buildings. Thu food sup
ply is a seriou problem, as every hotel
restauraat and grocery in the city was
wied out. In all, 30 city blocks were
destroyed. 1 he wind, which blew a gale
all night, shifted at daylight and the hre
ts slowly spreading throughout the resi
dence district.
The fire started in the Paris cotton
compress late in the afternoon and was
swept northeast to the heart of the city
The flames made a clean jweep of the
it. a;... it i . . . . . i i
NO INFANTRY ATTACK
MADE ON VERDUN
FRONT, SAYS PARIS
But Germans Heavily Bombarded Malan
court and There Were Artillery
Exchanges of Lesser Intensity
East of the Meuse.
Paris, March 22. No infantry attacks
were made on the Verdun front last
night, the war office said to-day. The
Germans bombarded Malaneourt heavily
and there were artillery exchanges of
less intensity east of the Meuse.
The French official statement last
night said:
"In tho Argonne there has been gre
nade fighting at Haut Chevauchee. Our
artillery shelled the German works in
the neighborhood of the road between
Vienne le Chateau and Binarville.
"On the left bank of the Meuse the
bombardment continued violently in the
region of Malaneourt on the village of
Ksnes and hill 304. Counter-shelled with
great energy by our artillery, the enemy
made no attempt to sttack during the
course of the day.
"Thero was an intermittent bombard
ment at several points of the front, east
ef the Meuse and in the Woevre.
' "In Lorraine our artillery was active
against the German organizations north
Bnd east of Embermenil.
"In upper Alsace our artillery took un
der its fire enemy troops which had de
bouched from Niederkrg, southeast of
SeppoLs. i
"One of our pilots to-day brought j
down a German aeroplane, which fell in '
Dame in the r"gion of Douaumont. Last I
night our aeroplanes bombarded the sta-1
tion at Dun-siir-Meuse and Audan-le-
Bethlehem Steel Company Promptly Re
duced the Cost When Government
Seemed About to Order a
Federal Factory for
Making Armor.
Washington, D. C, March 22 When
the House naval committee to-day re
ceived the Tillman bill for a government
armor plate plant, which passed the hen
ate late yesterday, it also received a
proposal from the Iiethlehem Steel com
pany to cut the price of armor from
the present price oi $425 a ton to $3115.
brought to the border at once and sent
forward along General Pershing's line of
communication to Casas Grandes. Wheth
er he had asked for more troops, General
Funston would not say.
$rt,00, snd also identified the receipts
given for tho total amount of the sum
due, of which Mr. Arnold paid one-hslf,
although the witness admitted tliat Mr.
A16xander had never puid a single cent of
iiis share. The last receipt wss signed
oy r. m. addom, wrio wjjs ma We treas
urer of the company.
The witness admitted that he had nev
er revealed to Arnold the fact that Alex
ander paid no monev to the company,
but insisted that he did not mislead him
Although Several Messages Have Beenjnd tliat the receipts issued for the total (lege of the City of New York, arrested
Mum oi ine inaeoieiiiiess were not given iiieie ibi inm on cum' m nmo,
NOVORD COMES
FROM AVIATORS
southern portion 6f the city, burned
path three and four blocks wide extend
nig to the public square, where a large
open space arrested the course of the fire
in that direction
to
SET DOZEN FIRES.
And Pulled in Seven False Alarms
"Rehearse the Firemen."
New York, March 22. George Gustow,
18 years old, a former student in the col
Received from American Expedi
tionary Forces at Casas
Grandes.
Columbus, N. M., Mexico, March 22.
Wireless communication with the ad
vanced base of the American expendition-
The Tillman bill, which provides for ftry forcc at Casas Grandes was restored
- 1 II.- ' -
the erection or purchase by the govern
ment of an armor plate factory at a
cost not to exceed $11,000,000, was passed
by the Senate by a vote of 53 to 23.
Democratic senators supported the bill
solidly, regarding it as one of the impor
tant measures included in the national
preparedness program now being has
to-day. Several messages, all in code,
were received, but none gave word of the
for the purpose of making Mr. Arnold imitted, the police said, that he set twelve
believe that Mr. Alexander had pajd his
share of the money to the com; any.
COLE YOUNGER DEAD.
Notorius Bandit of Post Bellum Days
Died in Peace.
Lees Summit, Mo., March 22. Cole
Younger, notorius outlaw of border days, captain signed "firebug" and "incendiary"
fires in a residential section of the city,
one of which was in the dormitory of a
police station. He also sent in seven
false alarms of fire, the authorities sny
"ie told them, "to rehearse the depart
ment so that when the real big fire oc
curs you (the firemen) will be able to
render good service to the city."
It was said he had written letters to
an engine company cuptain and a police
two missing aviators, and the search for jbut of laie year8 a ,evout church at- in which he boasted of turning in false
CETS 23 FOR ASSAULT.
George Milne of Bane Had Sued E. R
Fletcher of Hsrdwick for IJ00.
IWeated In llnrrs city court, the plain
tiff in tho cans of George Milne of liarre
vs. K. K. Heteher of llurdwick, secured
a favorable verdict in Washington conn
ty court, the jury returning a verdict at
II o'clock this forenoon for the plaintiff
to recover if-'-. I he amount numcd in
the suit wss 500, but this amount was
evidently considered rxcCHHive ly me
jury for the alleged trepai. The cshS
wa given the jury shortly bet ore n
o'clock hint night, the defendant, who
claimed self-defense, taking but a short
time in which to present evidence. A. A.
Kargejit represented the plaintiff Snd J.
, Kediiumd the defendant.
A jury was ouieklv empanellsd this
forenoon for the trial of the replevin
ease of C. W. Murray against Georgo L.
Morris, constable, of liarre. The jury
drawn is as follows: It. K. Sander, A.
M. Robinson, .lohn Holland. C. L. Ifolton,
Lucius L. Knapp, Krvd K. Cram, P. K.
Gamiey, T. .1. Kartell, K. A. Nelson. H. K.
Nelson, A. M. ,now and Carroll heeler.
The cae has to do with two nionu-
meqts cut by the Central Granite com
inv of liarre for Townsend & Town-
send, wholesalers, who in turn sold the
work to C. W. Murray. The pkiintilr
seeks to show that the title to the prop
erty went instantly to Mr. Murray when
the jobs were loaded on a car consigned
to Townsend & Townttend. The plaintiff
is represented by A. G. Kay and U- A.
Hoar and the defendant by John W. Gor
don and Karlo R. Davis. G. L. Morris
and E. P. Carter, 'the latter a member of
the Central Granite company, were wit
nesses examined this forenoon.
$238,363.33
CITY BUDGET
Passed by City Council After
Second Reading Last
, NlgTit
FAVOR $35,000 POND
ISSUE FOR HIGHWAY
The Council Would Aend
Granite Pa vemontc outh
Main Street Thi -Vear
BODY TAKEN TO M0RET0WN
Following the Funeral of Mrs. Catherine
C Donahue at Graniteville.
Funeral services for Mrs. Cstherine C.
Donahue, aged llli, whose death o-curred
at the home of hernimhew, E. H. Ner
ney, in Websterville .Sunday forenoon,
were held in St. Sylvester's Roman Cath
olic church in Graniteville this morning
at 8 o'clock, the parUh priest, Rev. Jo
seph J ureot, olliciatmg. 1 he services
were very largely attended and the floral
tributes were numerous. The bearers
were: O. E. Mayo, J. It. Ilngan, Mitchell
Marrian and Patrick Connor. The re
mains were taken by team to Moretown
for interment in St. Patrick's cemetery.
Among those who attended the serv
ices from out of town were: Mitchell
Marrian of Montpelier, Mrs. Suwtelle of
Montpelier. Mrs. P. F. Nernev of More-
town and Miss Jennie Folev of Barre.
The list of floral tributes included the
following: Carnations. Mr. and Mrs. Jo
seph Rock. Sir. sud Mts. W. E. Lappin,
Mr. and Mrs. I). Cameron, Miss May
Cliapman, Mr. and Mrs. James Cummings
arid Misses Mildred and Monica O'Heron;
roeos, Mr. and Mrs. J. 1'. Hagan and fam-
ly, Grace McDonald; roses snd carna
tions, Ms Annie Greenlay, Jlrs. David
ieake; cross, clerks m the 'employ of
E. 1L Nerney; violets, Mrs. Bridget Sup-
le; spiritual bouquet, Mis Jennie Fo
ley; set piece, "Aunt," from nieces and
nephews.
BUYS VERMONT CONCERN. (
Fairbanks, Morse & Co, of Chicago to
Take Fairbanks Scale Works.
An informal poll on ti Pojiosal to ex
tend the granite paving along South
Mil in street to the base of Jockey Hol
low hill with the incidental erection of a
new bridge over Jail branch in prospect
found the city council practically a unit
iu favoring the proji-ct at the regular
meeting of the city council last evening.
To such an extent did unanimity prevail
that the ultimate realization of the pro
ject seems to hinge on the next meeting
when the voters, in all probability, will
be asked to authorize the bonding of the
city in the sum of $35,000, payments to
extend over a period of seven or 10
years.
The sense of the council was obtained
when Chairman Glysson of the street
committee, in reviewing the proposals
entertained by the previous council, sug
gested that it would be well for the de
partment to be considering plans for the
work if it is to be carried through this
year. Mayor Gordon and Aldermen
Glysson, Healy, Hruce, Rossi snd Shurt
IcfT were of the opinion that the work
should be done, while Alderman l)ej
nolds, one of the new members of the
council, t jd he would prefer to give the
matter a good bit of thought liefore de
claring himself. It was suggested that
the council could go before the city with
better grace if steps were to lie taken to
improve the condition of the Granite
street bridge. The matter of installing
a system of gates at the South Main
street Barre & tTliclsea railroad crossing
was referred to 'the street committee to
confer with the railroad officials. Sev
eral aspects of the paving proposition
were considered, statutory citations fur
nishing the information that a train may
obstruct a crossing only five, minutes ad
a time; and the suggestion that the tele
phone companies be required to put their
wires underground was al) discussed.
Prolific of much business with a
sprinkling of by-pky was the first regu
lar session of the council. Toward the
fag end of the meeting Chairman Healy
tendsnt and peaceful ritizen, died at his
home here last night after a lingering ill-
the men is being continued.
Lieuts. E. J. Gorrell and Robert II.
ti -: i : .. c . . .. . I
t lllia, II., oi viiit mot nnu niiumii 'Hi hid tt . .
lt . .k.. in th f,,.itl,i1a of nes9- H wa8 72 years of age and unmar-
tened to completion. Mne progressive )e gu,rra Madre wit,, but t,,m. day. , ned.
Republicans joined with the majority in 'ratjot1g and two small canteens of water I ''0,t) Younger was one of the last mem
voting for the bill. They were Senators ', iH.twe,,n tnem and starvation. Army of- bers of the notorius robber bands that
llorah, Clapp, Cummins, Gronna. Kenyon, j n.er- j,, not credit the reports in Ooium- infested western Missouri during and aft-
bus that the two officers may have fallen , the Civil war. He was a member of
victims to snipers.
Morris Poindextor, Sterling and Works.
Passage of the measure in the House
is regarded as assured. Administration
leaders are planning to bring it up soon
after passage of the army re-organization
and immigration bills.
The bill, which has the approval of Uie
administration and Secretary Daniels,
was bitterly opjMised by several Republi
can senators. At committee hearings on
the measure, oflicers of th
MORE INFANTRY WANTED.
alarms, adding:
"It has been amusing to me to see you
roll to the scene of various supposert
fires. I know it costs the city $'-. each
time you roll, but I think the expendi
ture is justified."
St. Johnsbtirv. March 22. Fairbanks.
Mnr A Co. of ChicH.ro has decided to i f the water committee attempted to re
purchase, by exchange, all the stock of j Prt a committee effort to clarify and
tho E. and T. Fairbanks & Co. deposited ! interpret the rules and regulations of
inder the terms of the offer recently V'"5 w""'' "cjmi i.iieni. awuuii ..
nade. The exchange will be made April !JOni broke m on his report. It was
1. and those stockholders of E. and T. -iitieU P
Fairhanka A. Co.. w ho have denosited l"ree "" oppowu, v iu man nemy
their stock will receive about April 1
certificates of the preferred stock of Fair
banks, Morse & t o. with dividends at tho
rate of 8 per cent from April 1, 1016.
The stockholders have very generously
vailed themselves of the offer. Tho deal
represents about $1,500,000.
DAM 50 FEET HIGH.
TO RELIEVE FREIGHT BLOCKADE.
Interstate Commerce Commission Sends
Investigators to New England.
New York, March 22. Because of the
seriousness of the freight blockade in
and Midvale companies, two of the three 'cation behind his flying columns. Major
concerns which provided armor to the 'General Funston has forwarded the re
government, appeared and the threat was quest to tho war department and it has
made that tneir plants would have to be
dismantled as soon as the government en
tered in the business, leaving no source
of supply for the navy's immediate needs
the Quantreli band of guerillas and with
his two brothers took, part with the
"Jamus boys" in bank Snd train robber
ies in Missouri and neighboring statts
r -i ttt ... irAA. t : . . - that net t eii the lontera mora thnn a dun.
uciicxai jTciBiimit n aula iu sfcecu i.iuca ui ...... . ,
r th... i.i. ii.... in.-i-.i: New LnL'htnd. where factories are renort
hers of these hands are dead, some ai. the ' l to closing because of their inabili
handa of the law. some by suicide and tv to obtl,,n ''iml "n1 other "'Ppl'. the
others from natural causes. Younger aft
er a long term in the penitentiary be
came a law abiding .Missouri citizen.
Cole was the oldest of the three
Younger boys."
Communication Open.
Washington, D. C, March 22. Brigi
Gen. Pershing has asked for more infan
Bethiehein try to keep open the lines of communi
been taken under consideration.
REPORTED NEAR VILLA.
The opposition in the Senate was led by General Pershing Thought He Was Near-
Senators Penrose, Oliver, Lippitt and
Lodge.
Senators Oliver and Penrose insisted
that the proposed action of the govern
ly in Touch.
TRAIN BLOWN OFF TRACK.
Was Overturned and Wrecked While Go
ing at High Speed.
Marion, lnd., March 22. Clover Leaf
passenger trtiin No. S, the "Commercial
Traveler," was blown from the tracks
four miles east of Murion lat night dur
Washington, D. C, March 22. General
Pershing, leading the American expedi-
ment was confiscatory and that it would tionary forces in Mexico, reported to
e it . : a c a l flif ii-iir (tpnn rf nipn t. VPt prdu v thai" tin
rurar uie .Mmw imo: i.imiu.ni-oirern uui, . .... ............ ------j f. -winn .l,if.i, 1ua.i ,i1M,l,
of business at a time when they are reacned point near ilia and iL vi. iniVV alwuit ll Vl Ti.i r.in
most needed by the government." outlaws. It was made clear in the din- h VT .J"' V I
Senators Swanson, Reed and Tillman ' Ptch that General l'ershmg believed the! " r.
troops of the de facto government were . " . : . . , 1 ' . ..
' ,: 4i, j i i . j ported. Physicians nave gone to the
it is quite possible Villa may be trapped,
closed the general discusnion for the ad
ministration, maintaining that the pri
vate manufacturers never had dealt fair-
Iloniiin snd
Viirnetille?."
bivsiiaes in the region of
lly with the government and that govern
ment manufacturers in competition with
private manufacturers was necessary.
Senator Tillman declared it was not de
signed to run the private manufacturer
out of business, and predicted it would
not.
500,000 MINERS MAY STRIKE.
t
TWO ARRESTS EXPECTED.
Welshmen Dispute with Owners Over
Bonuses and Sunday Work.
Cardiff. Wales, March 22. A strike of slaughter and another for aiding and
.-tOU.iSHi v elh coal miners is threatened abetting in a criminal operation
As Result of Inquiry jnto Death of Mrs.
Emma Wolf TruesdelL
Newark, N. J., March 22. A grand
jury which has been investigating the
death at her home on April 15 last of
Mrs. Emma Wolf TruesdelL prominent
in Montclair social circles, yesterday re
turned two indictments, one for man-
FRENCH CONTEST VIGOROUSLY
In Effort to Prevent Encircling of Ver
dun Fortress.
IjoiiJou, March 22. In their attempts
to tlvink Verdun on the west, the Ger
mans, having succeeded in working their
way through the Malaneourt wood snd
the Avocourt wood, have begun a heavy
homliariiiiH'nt of the village of Esnett,
aliil .,,.Ll ... . 1 ... ip4lirb.l r.1 V r. . 1 . .
,.j i,;ii ,i i,k .-, . ,;!... the result of a failure to obtain a' Dr. Paul K. Truesdell, to whom she
a La I f north of Ksnes.
The French, however, are vigorously
contesting a further advance eastwsrd,
whk-h lint alone would lring the German
line nearer the furtrms, but spresding
fan like northeastward, would put in
iopardy the French in the region of Le
Mort Homme.
"So gr.at ha been the counter-offen
sive of tie French giiiw that, after de-
scene. Ih'tmls s re slow in coming In on
account of communications being de
stroyed. The train consisted of five cars, four
imr tilled at an ancle of 2-i' detrree.. The feriK wi,h the foreign commerce of this
engine and tender stayed on the track
committee of railroad executives work
ing with Interstate Commerce Commis
sioner E. E. Clark announced last night
that it would send a group of experts to
New England circles Monday to study
the situation at close range and devise
remedies.
Reports also have been ordered from
every railroad in the eastern congested
territory showing the condition of their
lines as of midnight on Monday. It is
expected that this information will be
in tabulated form for a meeting of the
full committee, called for Thursday aft
ernoon.
To relieve the shortage of box cars in
Proposed by Essex Storage Electric Com
pany.
St. Johnsbury, March 22. -The public
service commission met here yesterday
to hear the petition of the Essex Stor
age Electric company which contemplates
the development of a big plant oii the
Moose river. The company contemplates
a capitalization of $2iHI,()00. Alexander
Dunnett represented the petitioners and
N. A. Norton of Lyndonville appeared
for the state. The dam would be SO feet
high and would cost about $100,000, aside
from the land damages. The commission
has the matter under consideration.
17 CANDIDATES IN BARRE
For Positions as License Commissioners
Appointment Comes To-day.
Late this afternoon it is expected that
Assistant Judges Dale and Dana will
make known their appointments of the
license commissioners for the city of
Tlnrre and the town of Middlesex. The
judges yesterday received a delegation of
nve irom jwrre, me eimnuiiiee pieseni-
ing a list of candidates for the three po-
isitions. There are 17 candidates for the
the middle West, where they are ereatlv I positions in Barre and a much smaller
needed for the movement of grain a con
siderable movement of empties has be
gun from esstern points. It is hoped
to release a large proportion of the P'O,
OiSI cars owned by western roads -now
tied up in eastern territory.
To aid in raising the blockade, which
.the associstion savs is seriously inter-
number from Middlesex.
16 PRISONERS FLED
'port, an appeal has been issued to all
But Few Were Soon Caught Deputy
Sheriffs Badly Wounded.
Providence, R. I.. March 22. While
Deputy Sheriffs Tillinghast and Colvin
were escorting 31 prisoners, including
one woman, from the I rovidence county
HAD BEEN MURDERED.
Man's Body Was Found Beneath Snow
Covering.
Auburn, Mass.. March 22. The bodr
e of a man supped to lie Naiole Flore, ef j
s ! Springfield, was found yeterdT liencsth
".'" ' " IT courthouse in this city to the prison in
Crsnston yoterday. the prisoners ovcr-
and the engineer and fireman brought
IliAm inin Miirinn.
faying ranaing rees ot umaais.
Constable Gorge L. Morris appeared
with the request tliat the city assiimn
the payment of his bonding fees, aggre
gating f.lT..V. Mr. Morris' decision tf
step across the corridor and visit ths
council give ris' t a lengthy discussion
on the propriety of the city's assuming
the exicnse!i incident to the bonding of
its officers. Most eeryne thought that
the officeholders should not be ssked to
shoulder the burden, but it wss decided
to leave the qnetion of doriding thu
matter to the city meeting. Bond wrro
approved a follows: J. A. Healy a sl
dernwn. !.. siirrtv. Amernan Kidrl-
matters by demanding more cars than
they need.
AUTO ORDER ON HIGH SPEED.
Twenty-seven Truck for Use in Mexico
Sent from Detroit
powered the two deputies, shot Tillin
ghavt and beat Colvin into a state of un
consciousness. Sixteen of the 31 then
took to the woods alwut a mile from the
prison.
The remaining 15 cared for Tillinghsst
j be-t thev could and then drove tlie
whi.h thev were lieing trans
. . .1. , f ... .
IN'iroii, .micii., Jiarcn i went v-sev- . . ., - i.nr. i,- .
settlement of dispute with the mine , had been married only eijrht months, was ! Springfield, was found veterdsT liencsth en "automobile trucks manufactured on a 1 ', ', . "
oxiit-rs rej,nruiif r-unimj worn ana DO-.il nis wncs sine w nen sue died. IT.ia covering pi mow in ine I omtn-viu rusn oroer irom mr r oc jmri men I lor I v;1lri(r Wilcox st once sent ro".os
nuses. (John H. Young, who wss called by the jdistrict nesr the Oxford line. The skull, use in Mexico, left IVtroit late yesterday J , h'rfuirh the woils snd at 6 o'clock last
The executive council of the South husband, dec lared at the time thst Mr. wss crushed snJ there were stab wounds jafternoon for the Mexican border. The j ,,lt f the fugit ives had rH-n re
Wsle Miners' Federation decided Mon- j Trucsdell's death occurred w hile he was j in the ln srt. the cheek and the left side, 'order wa received Monday snd tlie ma- j tllrno,j to the pri-on. whilf Ut-r fixe
day to recommend thst the conference 'preps ring to perform, an operstion. thelsnd the loft of the man' bead was 'chine, designed for military tine in, mi in suborlian l.
.delegates next Monday pass a resolution j nature of which was nt disclosed crushed. 'loaded into a ws ial train of 14 'e"l .'( ;,,,.
giving 14 days notice throughout the I n the strength of Dr. lotings state-j Flore bsd feen living in a shack withjcars and stsrte-l south one hour and 2-1; , ,jt!ier of the men with Cie revolver
was a-sked to go on with the report.
Cpon his refusal on the ground that ho
desired more time to consider his report,
the mayor cast the deciding vote for ad
journment. Afterward the .aldermen
convened in brief session, only to adjourn
after the mayor's nomination of James
Curtis as wire inspector had been con
firined unanimously.
The City Budget.
Something like $240,000, or $238,363.33
to be exact, was appropriated for depart
mental purKws in a resolution adopted
unanimously after the second reading.
Most of the appropriations tally pretty
closely with the recommendations made
by the finance committee a few weeks
ago. It was decided not to increase the
street department appropriation for the
purpose of paying for the new auto truck
and a separate resolution to tliat end
will be drafted sometime in April.
Here are the appropriations: Statu
highways, $2,300, streets $",000, perma
nent streets !H,!I00, lighting streets
S00, street sprinkling $2,150, sewers, $1,
300, surface sewers, $2,100, sidewalks $3.
500, bridges and culverts $1,700, en
gineering $S00, water department $25,000,
water sinking fund $4,199.3", salaries
$1,700, miscellaneous $1,500, salaries $L
500, city buildings $2,000, fire depart
ment $7.S(H), - poor department $7,000,
health department $1,500, births and
deaths $150, police department $4,000, in
surance $100. state and county taxes
$11,105.40, printing and stationery $350,
city records $150, interest account $7.
500. city schools $45,850, evening draw
ing school $2,(520, temporary loan $48,000,
current sinking fund $9,825, notes ami
bonds paid $20,000, dog license and dam
ages $250, election $400, assessing taxes
$1,100, society orders $81.81, band con
certs and amusements $1,000, refunding"
cemetery trust funds $1,250, hydrants
$2,000, "public parks $402.75, cemetery
trust funds $1,500. Memorial day $150,
Aldrieh public library $300. liquor li-.
censes $10, Barclay fund $20. In con
nection with the foregoing, the resolu-'
tion appropriating $2,300 to secure st-ato
sid for permanent highways w-ss adopted,'
after a second reading.
coal field of an intention to strike un-j merit, a permit was iued for Mr, four other men employed ,y the New minutes ahead of heliih time. The,(jJ,.n from the sheriff had been tup-j suret v. the same; James Marksy a city
j less a -ttlement i t fleeted. The miners I Truesdell'a burial. Several wes-k later. I England Construction romp nr. All of trsin i due at t!x border in 51 hour. : turr-I i clerk. $ !i.i. sun tv. the mnw; Jame
ts-uc!.iiig from t!i wt., tbt limrnni , -re said to be disappointed because their however, her nuither, whose suspicions hi shack com pumons are missings j When a call was made at the automo- Till ni;!:jt w rennvcl to the K'hode Maekav as citr tressurer, fi'.ooo, anre-
it unable to stsrt an in'antry sttsrk jrwjuest for an interview with Walter had been aroued. had the btxlr exhumed j It i upH-.I the murder was commit- 'Wle plant for r..nntrrs tn handle the J!a. bopitl. where an X-rsy photo- ty. the same; Gi"-r?e Y. Park, a ee.
nd presunuiblv are I- ins tell hard to Riinciman, president of the b-mrd of and, accsirdinir to the authority", an an- ted Sundav. a now of the men hav brs n 'cars in Moico there was almist a rn-t. ' rsi.h In ken of tl-e wound. The bol- ! nd constable, J lo.'il. iiret v. Ansel
t'tnr n wly earned l.rf.
"To Cie north and e-v-t of Wrilun I be
-nnn 1 hum I-t: only intermittert.
i te ..--ne font, ii Jjorrs ne snd m
trade, was not herded, and the b adera , topsy diis losed evidence npin wtich the
decided by a 14 days notice to form a j indictment were asked.
crisis in order to make the go era meat j It w tid that two arrest w.uId be
act. made.
seen aUmt the placr sin. Sunday morn-1 Hundred of workers ntbed furward r- 1. 1 -Irak lnn h 'i ii i'r U H shoulder
inir. fstate dete,ti- are assi-tinz the rcr ti rnlist for the work. 1 hirt v -fovr .and i-il ut into his ne.k. At l-ie lio-
Xiihurn pidice in sesrehirtg fr the mur-lmen wer sel r te. an I they are en t'srir ptjl it i saf 1 i .-.n-i t..-n i dn- r
I A- . V . , . . .1.1 . 1 - . . -
sn i ini. Mr. A. S, ni; ioi. '.. L. vmith;
C. II. Iyn ) is a 1 h ricin. S-I .. nr-
derer.
way to the frftt with the trw-kf.
(Cor'in ied on fourth psgl.
