' i, Vf
" ?at V sw-dswJsw k Tt! .atv ssmvvf .adsmi e aav
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
RU Testh Year-No. -,MT
ulitp 4t.itftttii"'HiMp3tin' ;i-i
aaw aBaaai -aba: v ,ar r i. a ' -- aBrAAw m "aaaa" -. ABBBaaBAaAABBBaaaaaBaBABAAAAAAaAaAAAAAAAaAaAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAM.
i -bv "f"f kWWWWT aawjaa ak. mw mm. "LaV smVAmVsm. smmr m am am am urribuib niTrarArni
-i - ; . " " - -a-ag-a,.T II I iM-?F '
KLAMATH FALLS. OREGON. WEDNESDAY. MARCH 22. 1916 Price. Pit OmJ.
f. Z '"V ... .,:- ?
,..f ' '----. -TTr-T r:i! ' - if.r -
Wf
Mrs. Hunter Tells Jury She Shot Mrs. Kuehne
IWWWWMMtoMWiMMMMMIMiMMWMll i . alv.-j-ui.-. I.' T.truV-im. VJL'. Jl . ??
" - , ' '
' fropfan Will Find Vilh f(mmm hfegS glfOiB
ismmm. r i uui niumg r races aiw
BVBmmmmmmmmVmmmmmmmmlmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmSmi
mS SSSSSSSSVHSSSSSSSJBSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSBSSSSSSSSSSSSaKa
mf, mjLaAtmsmsMtsmsmsmsmsmsmsmsmsmsmsmsms?am
I aHaaaHKaaaaaaaaHaaaBaHSHtftftmHKtts I
wr aaaaaaa Aaaaaaaaa-PftPSiQSBaaaaaBBB H
K'SBKaftlaaaaV&aaBk '&Jf Av-MMSSySMMMWBKE!?
m MmKRimKts?mmKKlWm m
H KHmH nil 7 irr"yMMMn5'1 JIbBTMmTMmm ITlir am 1 Bb
mWBBmMmBKBim
vssBrBrsattv"-. ttzf
IIHllHplliiiH.iHI
H BdlBBMBBBBBBtte'KHBBBt fftflv '
Wk "KlSaaaavIS i& '.k jj
Woman Gives DramaticStory
of Tragic Events at Ranch on
i
Fatal Morning Last December
Bone of the mot dramatic tetl
way ever ottered In trial In Klam
ttb county waa given thla afternoon
when Mn. KIiIp Hunter told the court
aad Jury that after seeing Andrew
Kuhno armed with two gunv march
las aroung the bouae where ah and
tare children were, while ber hue
tend waa off the nUcb to get water,
and after Kuehno had began ahoot
lag at her unarmed hmbanch and at
aeraelt and Itwrence. she went In
Ibe bouse, aaw Mrs. Kuehne pointing
a gas toward ber, and then shot out
et window at Mrs. Kuehne, after
talch Mrs. Kuehne aUggered back
a eeuple of ateps and fell.
AMhetwh compose when he start
el ber teitlmony at I o'etoek, she
brake down aereral times during her
(IirlInSBtng when the
vrct examination was finished at
1:15, and a rccese woi taken, Mrs.
Htntr upoke In n low voice that was
'hardly audible' all over to court
room. A larcer crowd of spectators than
ututl hart lusembled, eager to bear
tbb woraan'i testimony, which la of
etJaVe Importance In the defense of
X. fcrnett I-awrence, on trial for Mra.
Kuthne'a death.
The wltneas said ahe became ac
quainted with Mrs. Kuehne In the
lummer of 1013 while ahe and her
hatband were on tho Doreey John
ton' ranch. Rho'aald Mrs. Kuehne
wi her dlnnor guest upon ono oc
casion, and that Mrs. Kuehne after
wards sent her a bundle of clothing
to be made over for the little Hunter
children.
Mrs. Hunter told of Kueune's driv
ing up to the ranch the Saturday be
fore the trouble for a room in the
bouse. 8he aald she replied that they
wsre using all of the rooms, Kuehne,
he said, then became angry, and
Hid that he didn't come there to
Msrt trouble bqt that his mother,
toe rightful owner, would be there
won- Mrs. Hunter eald hor reply
u that It the Kuotraee opuld show
sy papers or' authority for posses
, tho Hunters would move right
vl the place, and they could have
tyl possesalon.
Bhe then told of Ns breaking Into
tar- tank house, disconnecting the
War, unloading his goods, tad his
ots at different times during the
' nioon ulch caused -her much
. Meat, and resulted in an officer be-
called to remonstrate wtth
ICushne, who shot again after the of
"Mr left.
Bhe told of going to the Lawrence
n to got water from a barrel
Jwe, after the water was shut of at
" ranch, and atated that on her
JJWnd trip for water she brought
.0 rifle and a revolver to the
? from Lawrence's,
JP dx lumay, according to the
J?? the) Kushnss stood armed
,rd over the task house. Andrew
ao "' " ' th P""0
Attention of persona fol
lowing the Lawrence case
is directed to the atory in
the last column of page
five, regarding the testi
mony of Henry Stout.
the buck door, uhe said, ho had the
rifle still In hor hands; that, she bad
taken It from the bedroom when
when Kuehne began shooting, and
had kept It In her hands, she thought,
all of the time.
Lawrence, Mm. Hunter aald; was
on the front porch at tho time she
shot. Just after Hunter came up,
she aald Lawrence went out to where
Mrs. Kuehne lay, took her gun away
from her and brought It In the house
when toe entered with Hunter by tho
back
... na e !-
rnh Th h.vt .r,....j . (....idbck ooor. ana saiu uftwrence am
Mr. aad Mrs. Leroy Richardson tolD0rt.M"- ". that she
stsy with her during their alkeatU4W',r Lee w anything'
Richardson to do the chores sutt Mrs. Wad woman.
fRIehardsoatosUy with Mrs. Hanter.1 AH thM wmt lnto lhc basement
Lawrekos. she said, came to the ranch the bouse, she said, for fear of, be-
Just as the Hunters nrokhedbwakaset lUlaat.- smefsalaV sawwaaaJmafcprT
After Hunter bad left the pUco to nyscencau ana staxea tnai ss went
Kt weter, Mrs Hunter stated that.uPv'a " bu to l tbe. bby.'s
Andrew Kuebae, armed with two 'cloUtslir. -crawling along; the oor to
guns, and his mother, with a shotgun J kccpJrom being seen through a win
under one arm and some signs un-,dw- Returning, she said she dressed ,
dor another, left their cabin and wentllhc- child and tried to go after help
to tho four gates leading Into thai"" Hunter, whose wound was then
paining him.
"What did you say immediately at-,
-f
kouu toZTjjn-r ez
7 near him. A hi. nAk
SJL J04" qkH ta the plaes
iV ttood gard walls Kuehae at,
ii, " n aUttad, carried guns
iue iimes she saw them Bun-
ttri,!,OW,nf their trip to Merrll Bat-
fiK.!11 !H"i Hunter said hr
U "iSliwrMlc "" "
uiS!"' '",, Monday morning
tAJFfrBM tar with At-
! aad DlsUlet Attorney
ta situation at the
place, nailing these algna on the gate
posts. The Kuehnes, then, she said,
returned to the .cabin and with heritor you fired tho shot?" was asked.
linger she traced on a map of the "I don't know; I don't know what
route the Kuehnes
had
ranch the
traversed.
Androw Kuehne, she said, shortly
afterwards left the cabin, walked to
the ranch house, and walked around
It, for what seemed to hereto be an I
knu.'. Hma flliA aiva tut atnnnAri I
mwm. m m.v. wuw .mi. iv ..wrr
once and knocked at the back door,
and when she called to him he asked
to bo allowed to speak to Mr. Rich
ardson. Sho says she replied that
Rlchardaon was not there, and asked
him to wait until Mr. Hunter re
turned. Kuehne then, said the wit
ness, resumed his march around the
place. Sho says ho was armod with
two rifles, ono on a strap over his
shoutder,.the other In readiness for
use, and his actions made her ex
tremely nervous.
The witness stated that wben ahe
aaw Hunter starting to come nono
sho became frightened and put ber
children In the basement. The baby,
not a year old, waa undressed, so
she wrapped It In a quilt to keep It
worm. Aaked her reason ror so ao-
Ing, Mrs. Hunter said ahe feared ror
the children's ssfety, and she bsgsn
to cry.
Defore her narrative reached the
point where Hunter turned In the gate
and Kuehne began to (Ire at him, .Mr.
'Hunter was again composed. As Hun
ter got out of tho wagon and opened
the lower gate, Mrs. Hunter says
Kuehne fired a regular fusillade at
him.
When Kuehne opened flro on hor
husband, Mra. Hunter says she went
to the front porch, where Lawrence
had also rushed, and that Kuebne
then began to alternate his Are be
tween Hunter and the two on the
porch for about a dotes shots. After
shooting at least twloe with the IB-tO
at Kuehne, Mrs. Hunter says she went
Un the house for fear of getting shot
by Kuehne'a volleys.
"In the front room, I looked out
the north window and saw Mrs.
Kuebne with a gun pointing at me.
said the witness. "I shot. the 16-lu
out the window toward her. She took
two steps baokward, sat down, and
afterwards laid down."
Just afterwards, she said, Hunter
came by la hi wagon, stopping i
the back door. As Hunter cam la
I was saying," she answered. She
stnted that while Kuehne was walk
ing around the ranch house sho Im
plored Inwrence to assist her, or do
something, saying that she could not
get along without her husband.
"What did you exclaim to your
husband aa he waa getting out of the
wagon?" Renner asked.
"At that time I thought I'd ahot
Mrs. Kuehne, and I told him so," she
replied. Mrs. Hunter also said ahe
did not Are at Kuehne until Kuehne
had flred toward the porch where ahe
and Iawrence were standing.
J. O. Bwlndler, the drat witness
called after the afternoon recess yes
terday, stated that In a conversstlon
with W. H. Todd last month, Todd.
speaking of Lawrence, said: "If they
let that s of a b go they'll
need a box for htm." This was to
Impeach Todd's testimony that he
made no such statement to Swindler,
Dr. Warren Hunt testified to re
moving a bullet from Lawrence's left
arm at the hospital last spring after
the'troublo in which W. H. Todd shot
Lawrence. The bullet war introduc
ed aa evidence by the defense:
Quy O. Hunter, who was shot at
by Kuehne as Hunter drove on the
place with some barrels of water,
wont on the stand at S ; 65. He atated
hla age as 3 years, and said that
besides his wife his, family consists
of four children, their ages ranging
from seven years to a few months.
He stated that he had been living
on tho disputed homestead for. two
months and a half prior to the shoot
ing. He said he did this under an
arrangement with Lawrence, but ob
jections by the state prevented any
explanation of the- terms of this ar
rangement. Hunter said he was a witness at
the trial of Lawrence on an arson
charge. He testified tyt the day fol
lowing the trial he met Wash Adams
in front of a local store. Hunter
said he was carrying thirty feet of
ropo at the time, and that Adams
stated Hunter had "better take plenty
of that along, as we'll use it on that
place pretty soon.". Adams dsnled
this In his examination.
The witness testified to Kuehne
meeting him the following motaiac
on the road and asking the outcome
laces
the Cavalry is Cheered
I'nlli'il I'reSa Service 'operate. The Mexicans will give ao
EL PASO, Tex., March 22. The information as to the whereabcsksoX ..
British vice consul at Torreon has ar- tns Carrnnza troops or their head- .
ranged for a special train of box cars. Quarters. " .
which were to leave today for the Two thousand Cirraaxistaa arerj- ?
.border. Forty-flve foreign women ported .to have deserted yand hare '
and children, according to advices. Joined Villa. f s
will take this means of aettlna to According to Funs ton, ao informs;
safety in this country. Carranzlstas tlon has been received' from 'oaafav
are guarding the train. ("ons in Casas Qfaades valley f'Oa-"
' It Is expected the American base ,elna lnce Sunday. , ,t
, will be moved here. Unofficial re- ,' o
ports say that Funston will come here,IL'nilea' Service
. annn ao ll. inn.h. I. HM Dlla. ' fAT TTMRITa W U . If sin lltJ. ' '
n owvu uo fca.v .. n.ia.v. .. v. . uuw www ... .f.wfc,, ... ..mw. w..
Is completed.
5 commander of the Columbus
1
Sick soldiers are' arriving here. i said this afternoon toat UtmUftiasit
Thaw ronnrt'thnt rnnv AmArlrnB-urvt-Wlll!ft. thft ntMlnflr fcTlisrUmmtf 'l
'Hrnnnlnv frnm nnAiimnnta and rival, hilt -that TJAUafMm-tot CUnrrri'm 'tsfcmtsmWlS
AKaA Th I . .. JHel. at. a nhnnla laHhbnAW - - mA2 &
rmcii, auc iuvcusv uctu, UUililf, VtU atvwsa.si.sa m aaaaywaj, a mfamtmrnma, -vsm, X ,
' day, followed by cold nlghU, Is caus-,' ported that an "aviator 5 pas"A-s;.
In an Epidemic of penumonla, aad -Colonist Juares Monday.- '.-iJil'fe?
the medical department 'is lncreasfng " ' 'J w 'nA:jsv45
us precautions.'' ' nijp ,i'ren nervice a.
Refugees from Casas Grandee. COLUMBUS. N.M..,MaresV3l.-SAii
.. -j '"?. .A.t-.'fi''Ji i-'-vf 'r-.tstLa.
W
v
state that, Amorlemar. - " -- -.-' t.rr. ..-jvgsi'
brdnghfrromhidHis; claesw)4amigfVa;iamm
JPaeatairraaaaajbm wSifttf. ,
reached there. Children' showered been' misslM IscothlMBXartsto t'
fruit, and the Mer to Casas draadi 'TVSf.' "V,
Uhe troops with
mons gave tnem bar and other ror-age..
to Casas Oraades.,
Captain lleujamln D. Foulois, now First Aero Squadron from Fort Sill,
In the flight Into Mexico to find Villa Okla., last November, when the squad
for General Funston's troops. ron was transferred to Fort Sam
Captain Foulols has ten officers un- Houston,
der him who comprise the "fliers" The squadron uses biplanes, with
of the squadron, and the eighty troop- motors of from 80 to 100 horsepower,
era comple the detachment Most Each machine weighs about 1,350
of them are veteran aviators, Sev-' pounds and will carry 450 pounds, or
era! participated In the flight of the an observer with each pilot.
-',- -iSS&A.1 v
When the peons saw the aerobian) f
it U reported that' ther fell Cov Uselr '
knees, and prayed, not-knowlnaT' what
they were. Many of them took to the $
bills in fear. J .
United Press Service
Eli PASO. Tex., March 22. Gen
eral Gavlra, of Carranxa's army, said i
today that the Americana-and Vll- lrnlteil I'rosa Service " f
Itstas had not yet clashed. This In-. WASHINGTON D. C. Maicki"t
dlcates that communication has been General, Funston's call for, rjstafoni 4
restored, as he claimed positive In- menu met with -iswtaat'fesiasmss i:
formation. He practically admitted ( At 4 o'clock this' moralarCoeae '
iuv vjiia eanipvu iuuuwiag aim ue- Wilder, With- fOUr trjOfS. 01, tat I
feat at Namlqulpa. !, Cavalry. etatioaedVairtfrt
.Meyer, near her, boarded ' (aa S WJj i
of Lawrence's trial. He also told of
Kuehne's moving his mother's house
hold goods to the ranch, saying he
MINE OPERATIONS
EOJOYING BOOM
&
AN ENORMOUS DEMAND FROM
EUROPE FOR METAL8 CAUSES
ACTIVITIES IN THE METAL
MARKETS OF NORTHWEST
put the stuff In the well house, after,
breaking Tn the door with an axe; of,
Kuehne's loading his rifle nnd shot
gun, his shutting off the water sup
ply of the house and barn after break-'
ing the pump connection.
After this, Hunter says. Kuehne j
flred three shots, while Hunter aali
Richardson were tending .some colts 1
In the barn. Mrs. Hunter, said the
witness, was much worried- by'
the shots, and at her complaint, lie4,
"nWhne Earon waa away 'to' tO-rU Pre.. Service
ephone, Hunter says, Kuehne flred PORTLAND. Ore.. March 21.
two more shots. Durham talked with Soaring prices of jnetal.due to the
both Hunter and Kuehne for about enormous demand from Europe has
ten minutes, and then left, after , boomed mining operations through
whlch, according to the witness, out the Paclflc Northwest aa never
Kuehne flred some more shots. before.
Lawrence, according to Hunter's J The comparative value of the total
story, went over to the house occu-, metnl production- of the state of Or
pled by the Hunters that evening, and ceon for three years shows graph
Hunter told him what had happened ically what the war demand has done,
during the afternoon. Lawrence and These figures, according to M. H.
Hunter went to Merrill and telephon-.Hnrkts, director of the Oregon bureau
od Attorney W. H. A. Renner here, of mines andgeology, are as follews:
leaving Mr. Richardson at the ranch 11914 75O.Q0O
for the protection of Mrs. Hunter. , U1G 2,000,000
Hunter recounted the story told by, 1916 (estimated) ..... 3,000,000
other witnesses of Mra. Kuehne and Old abandoned mines In many sec
young Todd moving ontha place,, Mrs. itlons have been reopened by capital
Kuebne taking possession of the Bmall.-whioh saw in the higher metal prices
cabin, of the Kuehnes alternating In a chance to take advantage of tbe
guarding the tank house, of 'Huater European war. In many cases a little
and Richardson asking young Kuehne' development work In old 'mines has
for a bucket of water, and of his glv-. revealed new ore bodies, the existence
lav it to them, of Haatar tatuag a of which had hitherto not been
sack of grain from the cabin; and of Jdreamed.
i" !
?
that
vanced so rapidly that he is beyond afternoon for the border." ". ' 'r'-
any point from which he could com- Officials admit that uawM-supflSs";';;
dui oe uoes noi icar tor iue saioiy-oi cuuuuiou oi ou jiroops mmy am seswssJ.
the column, though It must be in the ---r ., "' , v. 1
.' . .. . ... . ...... I . -t iJt.' v. -,
vicinity wnere vuia was last re- miiert h-rei service &
sorted." coluhbub. n m.. Marah
W ml.. ..... ... ...... 1. .IMM.t.4 WMU. ...A.MM. 1..,.. .Iftk' kUA-'tj
HV w.W VWw..V.. .w ,wWw. ....w.www w ...w..w w. ..M 3 J,',
ble for the statement that It Is un- ing was restored thU, afteraoa; A'l'1'-''
known where tbe Carranxistas were number of messages .-were 'ajhiijtl ..;
though they were supposed to.co- unknown. " S '0:v'.,'''Vi
M
Kuehne's refusal toilet htm have In the bigger mining districts, like
water for the stock, on the grounds i the Ooeur "i' Aleae, the increase Ma
that he could not aaara It. Ranter mining operations has hMa.aaa ft-
.....a .k.i. 'h. haS atAav.kAA srantle acals. hat the srowth at'Ofa-
hones, three eows aad 114 ehWksas goa, heretofore c?a)tlvaly saaall
- - - na ue -ssjanaa-isMiiauTf ! wwi7
(Coattaued oa page 4) what has been dost by heavy demaad.
(
United Press Service
"SAN ANTONIO, Tex., March 22
train for Columbus.. Otte -saaaA;l
,rons of tbe-Fifth .Cavalii'aad.ttf msj
B3 'Bl
IamamI Vtinelnn avitiniinAxt sx1ea dlsusv Twatiiw.fnnslk TiifsMis 141 an?'i
uw-uiai m.v- aiu.wu.vm ., a.. anv-iu,i tt4M, .-mwTg. .
ne oeiieTa r-ersaxxis oaa aa umins. iiimois ana tvaBsas posRajiaw j"".;-
2' !
.i : a
&&& P S..va
J.A- .ft
&
TWO MORE WANT
TO KJpS
ONE APPLICANT A RESIDENT OF
THIS COUNTRY FOR THIRTY
YEARS, AND A SPANISH WAR
VETERAN
Prince Oscar it
.f -7ir.
-5
M
mi
(Jolted Press Service
rilMlismall l --. --
VI
-m
"&
."?
W 11 WI" -w" laSlfe
naaiv w iiihmim
z? v-jr rr-zj7tir-TJZ tss
Mtll . tfJSSU&ffwtfU
.. A'vsivre tt&
Vh'i ii-tt i.
.iiMinttnlu ...'.. Mm'.b
woundiBK ., of Prima (W 'kl'i'OarJ.
many on the Rusetaa front 'saapg?'iH
four of h kilur'i mnmm wkilSmV. -.!.& '
suffered bodily lBjiyMa;tswVaVira! JW
cording to, accurate jWraalit4ta?-tWi
and Prince Adalbert have?- umMSm
'thus far. August Wflaalm?UsAsWSfty
ser's fourth aoBj'.waa: wouasd iaar?m"y.
jing tbe battIe.of.tbelMaaa;,a?;f
namer BBssmm y-'-m a.
ws , mpsFweiL , )
James John Phllpott, a native of 'let In hla left arm. Tha
Great Britain, who came to thla Bltel Frederick, WM;Urwfr,ls
country as a baby over thirty years, horse 'in stsmber.'ntiJeislfc'
ago, who has been a resident of Bo-! was nearly oaptured by thai
tiAtisA fn manv vm anil vrfin fnuvtifr 1 1. k. IaIIawI.. flnAAt
-- - ...-,. "-W .--.- ,,. .I IWIHIUBMnil HiW-l
for Old Olpry la the Bpanlstf-Amerl-1 rescued by a Geravaa iMMtaMaa.
can .war, has found out that hU,car, reoeatly w'oaaaMaafiiliV
father died without Uking out fall ! palpitation of tha heart aa4i
naturalisation papers.-v Ta be sura from, his, eomplaint a4Ja ktdh
Uhat he himself Is a eltlsea, he has f 1914. , ' ,r!rVI'?
VJ .
w:
applied for papers aad will have a
bearing at the June term of court. ' I
Another new .applicant to be ex-tUaa ever in.taa Leads (
-V ?.MS4tt.
American .piM;aMJar
amlaed as, to cltlseashlp auallflea.
ttoaa at the June term 'to1 Qastat
Adolf Carkwa, , Carlson, who lives
here; is a aative of Bwedea. .
' - a. ': : - v v.j,
" Hldes'of sea lions are Mag ased.tor
leather by Caaadlaas.
Uoa Bietatvi
ifvw,r 4a.T??TT"'
it-
m&i
..yr
