S&tm.
' THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Rain or snow to-day; to-morrow 4!r
and colder; fresh winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 35; lowest, 35.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pat 9-
IT SHINES FOR ALL
ONE CENT
la GtHtW New T.rk, I TWO CENTS,
Jersey Cttr Newark. 1 EImwImm
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 116.
4-
NEW YORK, MONDAY, DECEMBER 25, 1916. cowm, me, y t prinHn punum odoton.
A
4
PALACES TO BE
IN HAMLETS BY
TREASURY RAID
"RAIN OR SNOW" EXPECTED
BY WEATHER BUREAU
WASHINGTON, Dec. 24.
Northern New England and the
Great Lakes region are assured
of a white Christinas, according
to to-night's weather forecasts,
and rain or snow is to be looked
for over the Middle Atlantic
States, with fair weather and
moderate temperatures elsewhere
Omnibus Public Building .I'1 of the Miippi.
Bill Would Beautify South
cm Villages.
LAW'S REQUIREMENT
IS OPENLY DODGED
$10,000,000 of Total Appro
priation Proposed Is De
clared to Be Needless.
LOSS PREDICTED ON
MANY VENTURES
GREETINGS FROM AIR
SENT TO AERO CLUB
Charles Hold's Odd "Merry
Chris! inns'' Acknowledged
by Friends on Balcony.
Mt. Olive, N. C, and Hazard,
Ky., Arc Among the
Places Favored.
Cliniics Held, banker and aviator.
combined hi hobby with the spirit of
the season yesterday by send I nit Christ
mas greetings to his friends at the Aero
Club by airplane. Hundred!) saw him
high In the air over tho home of all New
York aviation on Madison avenue yester
day, bis machine circling and rurtneylns
to tho little knot nf flying enthusiasts
who crowded out on the club's balcony
to arKnow ledge his salute.
Mr. Held, who holds both the Aero
Club export and the United States Itc
mtc military licenses, was out for a
100,000 TOIL TO
CHEER OTHERS
Record Breaking Christmas
Business Keeps Delivery
Forces Rushing.
NO TIME EVEN TO SLEEP
New York City's Holiday Bill
Estimated as Approach
ing 9150,000,000.
At least 100,000 persons In Manhattan
alone worked all day yesterday and will
SANTA REAL?
ASK VIRGINIA
Her Doubts Settled 19 Years
Ago, She Reveals Secret
Now to Baby.
TRUTH GROWS WITH AGE
HARDEN URGES
TRUCEATONCE
German Editor Declares
Cash Indemnity Cannot
Be Hoped For.
SWISS BACK WILSON PLEA
IN NOTE TO BELLIGERENTS;
OTHER NEUTRALS TO ACT
DEBTS AS AN ATONEMENT !
And Grandpa O'Hanlon Will
Read Again To-day the
Immortal Answer.
Once upon a time (so all Rood Christ
mas stories should begin) there was a
work all day to-day that others may I little girl who almost doubted tho exist-
havo a happy Christmas. Very man!" of
them. Indeed, were required by the record
breaking business demands of this
Christmas to, be on the job practically
all of Saturday night and Inst nlgl t,
snatching a llttlo sleep here and theie
as they were relieved from time to time,
The general manager of one of the
largest department stores In the city
once of Santa Claus not quite, you un
derstand, but almost. Her faith had
been shaken only slightly, you know
by small friends who elevated tho tips
of their noses and Bald "Pooh ! We
know better! Only little kids believe In
Santa Cluus."
Well, this particular llttlo girl was
only s tears old. Scepticism was all
about her Sho was troubled deeply. So
she went to her father and asked him
sain said in a reporter tor M B m:n es-) ,,.,,,., .. Ucre or waj( lhero not
l.illl.t.t null mi- tlirrillll ..ii.ii,.n-rn ui . K,t,l CrlUS'"
I.Ik 4 Ann ...Klni...ri ... I. .... ...... I . i . ' .' ' .
in u.vvv ciiiMui-v.T in n.-.-i ii- KHiu I "V re II n " li. natA Mint, nam, n-M
away at a time when others were worry-
when he conceived the Idea. He shot up
over the East Itlver bridges, turned In
at Forty-second street, and circled soulh-
wrstwatd to tho club. There lie cut a
i numlier of spirals and "llgure eights"
....III ...... ..I. .... ... , V. I..K wU.lnm
Washington-. Dec. 21. In the trinity hyM Mm muI cMca the rcM
t "pork" measures which tho Demo- ('resident Alan H. llawley, Henry
rats arc preparing to Jam through Con- Woodhouso and a number of others came
.v,i. ....inn m-iiiie thev hivo a suli-' oul H"l waved back to him. Then Mr.
rs this session while the) ao a sui. ) (neH(atue
tantlal majority, the' omnibus public of i.nriy, an(i turned his machlno In at
building bill Is disclosed by a review of tho hangar.
lis iiiumiuiiu.uii. iiivii iniiuua mi -
significant Southern hamlets to be one
t the boldest Ticasury rulds In car.
Of the more than 400 prujects provldeil
for In the bill of Representative Frank
Clark of Florida, who has been described
a tho "champion pork getter" of the
House, scores and scores arc for email
tillages In tho South whose populations
range from 1,000 or less to 5,001) and
Whoso annual postal receipts do not
reach the um of llO.ou't.
Although tho law provides that tlm
postal receipts i:.ut reach at le.ist
tlO.000 where authorizations for post
office buildings alone ale made, this re
quirement Is sldestepjied In a number of
instances In order to give various local!-1
.1 . 1 .1 . .1.11 . 1.. .I,.,,. '
spin iron, inn nangar on 1 ovcrnors isi- ( ,-, , , ,.,, , ,lf ,
and about 2 o clock In the afternoon' . ,..,.i ,..i ni ,1.,.,
, FAIRBANKS' RACE
WITH DEATH VAIN
Douglas and His Brothers
Reach New York Too Late
to Sec Dying Mother.
he had ever seen; and ho did nut doubt
that the same spirit of good unturcd,
self-sacrificing service was to be found
In the other big shops and In the various
other service Institutions.
The big department stores and some
of the smaller ones wero delivering
Christmas purchases from daylight yes
terday morning until very late last night,
after spending Saturday night In assem
bling deliveries and loading them Into
hundreds of horse wagons and motor
cars. The express companies rushed
wagons from one end of the city to tho
Irglnla O'Hanlon and her father's name
was Dr. IMillln F. O'HanloiO. "I know
there Is a Santa Claus. but I don't want
you to tako my word tor It. .lust you
sit down and write a letter to the editor
of Tilt Swn. Maylm The Run Is too
tiusy telling about tho doings of Presl
dents and Governors and such to bother
with a little girl, but th s matter Is vers'
Important and perhaps you will receive
an answer."
So v Irglnla wrote her letter, and on
Septcmlwr 21, 1897, Tub Sun answered
her question In an editorial which was
headed "Is There a Santa Claus? Yes.
Virginia, There Is," an editorial which
. has Riven nleasure nrohahlv to more opr.
other. The post otllce, breaking a rule fmn than anvthlnir which ever anneared
oi years sianomr, uisirimncu ions, in- in a newspaper. It Is reprinted this morn
rally, of parcel post Christmas girts, ltig on the editorial page. It settled all
Then) activities wero all iiddltional. of . of Virginia O'llanlon's doubts,
course, to tho customary necessary wni Is And then thn years fled swiftly and
nf a Sunday, and were due to tho Ire- Virginia ti'Hanlou, coino to womanhood.
mentious demands 01 this holiday season.
Frames an Address for Father
land to Make to a Cleansed
Europe.
Special Cable lt$pateh to Tn 9ns.
London. Dec 21. An armistice should
be declared at once, according to Maxi
milian Harden, who writes as follows In
Die Zukunt:
"Whence, I aslc, shall the money come
to wipe out the war loans, to pay for
the reconstruction of the land, for the
rebuilding of destroyed cltlos and vil
lages, for supplies, for the decent main
tenance of tho crippled, the helpless, the
widows, tho orphans 7
"A cash Indemnity, which, by the way,
would look qulto tiny alongsldo these
tremendous figures, cannot bo hoped for
even by tho most triumphant victor. As
for tho levy of a tribute extorted by
occupation lasting decades, such a thing
was possible In the days of Home. To
day It Is Just as Impossible as tho realiza
tion of tho dream foolishly fostered by
so many, the extinction of wholo races
a nl peoples.
"None of the nations caught In this
holocaust can expect any recompense
other than such as Is produced by their
own savings. Only new thoughts, not
the old embittered ones, ran open the
gates that lead out of this hell.
f mo.noo.noo pent.
Flush times, a general money spendln;
frenxy, late Christina shopping all
was married to lMw.trd M. Douglas, and
when their bahy, Laura Virginia, ap
peared two years and nine months ago
theie uas never a question In the O'Han
lon household at 121 West Nlni-ty-llfth
i.l.nrf n n..i-i In i.ml.li..7 11,0 il.iv l...fnre V"1" " ' 'c ocauuiui rcainy 01
I Christmas and a Sunday at that one , ',., , , . .. , ,
'.if 11,0 Imnio-i .1.. vr tt,.t v.-ikI ..rmv ..f i If "t hvo peeked through the
depattmcnt store, e.press company and
'post otllce emplo)ees ever put In. New
1 York's Christmas bill Is estimated as ap
proaching I150.000.0n0, and an astonish
ingly larRC part of It was spent In the last
few days before Christmas day, almost
the last day, in fact.
Treasure of Atonement.
"I!t Kuropc's war debts become a
treasure of atonement, let tho credits of j
Hll IIVIIIKr 01. mill n't inline ii-iiii; in
accept arbitration, become good money
guaranteed by all debtors until the coun
tries weakened by war van redeem this
International Instrument by payment
with national money, metal or paper.
It will take forty years at least, sixty at
most.
"After the conclusion of peace let n
court of nations administer the treasure .
, ot atonement, uivc tnis court autnortiy
to Imposo tines upon those who disobey
curtains of tho window of Dr. O'llan- 1 Its verdict. Invalidate, call In and do
Ion's drawing room lato last night one stroy the securities of tho nation thit
Switzerland's Note to Belligerents
WASHINGTON, Dec. 24. Switzerland in a note to all of the
warring Powers, sent yesterday, has announced Its support
of President Wilson's appeal for a discussion of peace terms.
Tbc text follows:
The President of the United States of America, with whom
the Swiss Federal Council, guided by Its warm desire that the
hostilities may soon come to an end, has for a considerable time
been In touch, has the kindncss.to apprise the Federal Council
of the peace note sent to the Governments of the Central and
Entente Powers. In this note President Wilson discusses tho
great desirability of international agreements for the purposo
of avoiding more effectively and permanently the occurrence
of catastrophes such as the one under which the people are suf
fering to-day. In this connection ho lays particular stress on
the necessity for bringing about tho end of tho present war.
Without making peace proposals himself or offering mediation,
he confines himself to sounding as to whether mankind may
hope to have approached the haven of peace.
The most meritorious pcrnonu! Initiative of President Wil
son will find a mighty echo in Switzerland. True to tho obliga
tion arising from observing the strictest neutrality, united by
the same friendship with the States of both warring groups of
Powers, situated like an island amidst the seething waves of
the terrible world war, with its ideal and material interests most
sensibly jeopardized and violated, our country is filled with ti
deep longing for peace, and ready to assist by its small means
to stop the endless sufferings caused by the war and brought
before its eyes by daily contact with the interned, the severely
wounded and those expelled and to establish the foundations
for a beneficial cooperation of the peoples.
The Swiss Federal Council is therefore glad to seize the
opportunity to support the efforts of the President of the United
States. It would consider itself happy if it could act in any,
no matter how modest, way for tho rapprochement of the
peoples now engaged in the struggle and for reaching a lasting
peace.
AMSTERDAM, via London, Dec. 24. Announcing that the Swls3
Minister at Berlin is abent to present Switzerland's peace note to the
Imperial German Chancellor, the Vonsiichc Zriimig says that peace
notes from other neutral countries are expected in the course of the
week.
Little Republic Makes Pro
posal Along Lines of ,
United States. .
PRESIDENT'S NOTE
MYSTIFIES FRANCE
Attitude of the Nation Is t
Support Action of
Senate.
BORAH OPPOSES
PEACE ALLIANOB
He Declares United State
Should Cling to Wash
ington's Advice.
The result waa that the department
stores after shutting up shop to the
buyers on Faurday night (several didn't
lock up iintlLJO i 51.) were forced to
concentrate their energy and Ingenuity
on making deliveries lefore Christmas
day was over. At midnight on Saturday
and ut any time you please yesterday
the delivery stations of the big stores
were roaring with activities as crews of
Hondas Fairbanks, racing eastward
ties the line new publli; buildings to win, ti.n imno of reaching his mother's
which they apparently have no rightful I bedside liefore her death, managed to
Utm. I have the Twentieth Century Limited held
at Chicago for ten mlnulea after the
10,000,00" Waste. 1 scheduled starling time of the road's
Tho public building bill carries with It'craek train, which was as long aa the
appropriations aggregating about I J.- Irallrond nftlrlala would hold Ml. Ten imin
000.000. Of this, by an official statement "I 11 Pullfrt oui. of Chicago Mr.
from the Treasury Department, nearly Fairbanks nrrlved at the station to nnq
$10,000,000. or more than one.fourth. Is the express gone.
needless, unwise and extravagant. If Immediately he tried to get a special
an estimate nf thn nroimrtlnti nf "oorl." I train. As In the rase of his brothers,
lninenlllweretobcmauei.yacommis-uonn. wno was n ; men loaded Christmas parcels Into the
Ion of experts connected In no way with who was In Idaho en wrd JI,,.ii b' Kns and trucks, sent them away
1410 iuiiuvinuu stiuiiiiiii'ii .1111111 11. iii.j . mcni 111111 mtii t.iu,...
be presumed that tho proportion would' 111 at tho Hotel Seymour here. Douglas
be Increased pronouncedly. t left his motion picture work In California
Hut according to tho admissions of n time to reach Manhattan, supposing
the Treasury Department Itself, more the tracks had been clear, late Saturday
than 25 per cent, of the authorizations (afternoon)
will probably prove unprofitable ventures ma gales and snow knocked train
for the Government. With tho public Uehedules askew. When Douglas Fair
building bill stand the Flood reclamation 'hanks asked for a special train In Chl
blll. carrying appropriations of 145,000,- jrnK ne was told that under normal ron
000. and the river and harbor bill, (1t0g a .pedal train could reach Man
whose appropriations probably will ihaUnn under pressure In seventeen hours,
resch $40.000.000 a grand total In ap- , ))e waa t0d. because of the storm
proprlatlons of more than 4120.000.000. thlnB for nm to do was to Jump
v Hiiitii n mikc iiaii. uuiiiiiicui) in ,i, flrt rirt!iiir Irnln nut nr I'hl.
'ork:
Consider the little village of Mount
Olive, X C. a typical though not an
xtreme example of tho manner In
which Southern Congressmen are empty
ing the pork barrel for the benefit of
their constituents. Mount Olive has a
population of little more than 1,000. Its
postal receipts last year wero only
fE.AT9.2S, nbout half of the amount
required by law before a town shall have
a building for postal business alone.
30,000 Post oner,
Rut Mount Olive by the provisions of
the Clark bill Is to have a brand new
post office costing $30,000, and space
In It Is desired for no other Federal
activities than the post office. Tho
maintenance of the new building, the
Treasury Department estimates, will be
about $4,000 a year, whereas the annual
rent for the building In which the post
office now Is situated Is only $420.
Then there Is the case of Hazard, Ky,
Hazard has a population of only a few
hundreds 527, according to tho 1910
leimus. It Is to get a $40,000 building.
The bill states that the appropriation
la for "alte and post office, mine rescue
station and other Federal activities."
hut It Is understood that the post nfllce
Is the only Federal activity actually'
desiring space In the building. I
Hazard, which aspires to this fine new
f tincture, Is found to have had postal I
cago. As a result he reached here at
B:30 o'clock yesterday morning, or Just
nbout six hours after hla mother had
died.
Mrs. Fairbanks, who ror years trav
elled with her son before he became a
motion picture actor and endured the
hardships of the one night stands to lie
with Mm, realized almost until her last
moment that her three sons were doing
their best to reach her before she died.
The Ilev. Father Vincent do I. Mc-
Gean. who administered the last rites of
the Roman Catholic Church to Mrs.
Fairbanks and will conduct the funeral
services to-morrow, said last night that
In all his experiences with the dying he
never hnd seen any one put up so hard a
fight for life as Mrs. Fairbanks did so
thit nho might live to see her sons.
John Fairbanks finally got Into town
early yesterday nfternoon and his
brother Robert arrived lost night. Ail
of Mrs. Fairbanks' sons would have
been here hours before she died if It had
not been for the storm.
and attacked other mountains of tagged
parcels.
The stores had promised buyers that,
come what might, deliveries would Iks
guaranteed by the 25th, by mornlnR If
possible, any way by evening, The men
anil women who were held at wotk to
accomplish this enormous undertaking
were paid extra for their labor, but the
store managers renllzed that they were
demanding a good deal of unselfishness
that could scarcely be paid for In
money. Some of tho stores will give
Tuesday to their delivery employees as
a day off to compensate for tho extra
holiday work.
It was stated to Tub St'.v yesterday
that Christmas shopping this year ex
ceeded by from one-third to one-half
the volume of purchases made In any
previous year the store, managers could
recall, and that deliveries could not have
been accomplished within a
breaks the peace unless Its very life Is
menaced.
"Such Is the basis upon which you
may build a true Kuropean community
bond which will hold the members to
gether yet will not stranslo or throttle
them.
would have realized how much Santa
' Claus means to Tire Sun's Virginia.
1 grownup as she Is. For, with her faUier,
her mother and her husband sho was
busy nxlng things and arranging things
so that the b.iby Iatira Virginia would
have a wonderful Christmas. In the
first place there was a goregous tree, a
gleaming Jewel of a tree which will show
Its glowing candles all of to-day. And
Europe, crippled by the
nn.i, not set aware of
Vl'lint, Ihn l,uhc .n.nl.l t .1.. I !
., , iiimii onC( iiy tne envy or our neignnois, op.
covers this morning and pitapats Into pressed by tho weight of a ho.tlle coall
the drawing room she will find that , ,,, wo havo nVer In poverty or In
S.iuta Claus has left for her these . ....i... . u .. ,.,.,. .
things- A beaier muff and stole, dolls. irt our armament, but now th..
....in ..ii.iii.iir nun nill'llcll UUII . Hll
then there wero tiny stockings crammed . f an unready I
w ith baby things and n perfect moun-! roncrrs ot Vie
tain of gifts for Iura Virginia. ' the ,vron? of ,
SattBFata am Add re...
"Suppose Germany i-ald: 'In the mldt
SWISS PLAN 5
WEEKSFORMING
Xoic Hcvenls Berlin and Wash-
ington Conferred on Peace
in November.
GERMANS SEEK
TO WIN RUSSIA
Will Kcstore Baltic Provinces,
Says Cologne 'Gazette,' Discussing-
Peace.
21. An Amsterdam
Kxchangn TelcKraph
automobile that GOK8. a sled, a real
piano (little girl size), picture books and
heaps of toys. And when It connn to
light the Christmas tree. Grandfather
O'Hanlon will put his specs upon the
bridge of his nose, hold up a finger for
complete sllencn and read for Laura
Virginia's benefit Tun Sun's editorial
world Is cleansfd and clarified, our one
aim Is organized peace.
" 'Our army Is Indispensable as n
medium for schooling tho manhood of
our land. We cannot give It up, but we
I on change Its character. Its term of
i service. Its purpoe In accordance w ith
the experience or yesterday and the de
1 mands of to-morrow. We do not pro
rn.W I'll Me PfP"fe Tnz Sin
r.r.ts, Dec. 24. Switzerland's note,
supporting that of President Wilson. H
accented as continuing the series begun
by the United States of peace notes' from Germany does not desire to create a
neutrals. -Notes from Holland. Spain j "ni.' of revenge in Hussla. which
and other neutrals are expected to fol-
I.ondon, Dec.
depatrh to tho
Company says :
"Prefacing an evidently Inspired lead
ing editorial with the statement that
low. The revelation that 1'resiaeni v u
son has been In communication with
Switzerland atnee five weeks ago gives
the note Its chief Interest.
.uMfhii.it thnt." savs 7.e Joiirnnf. "we
would provoko another war. the Cologne
fJ(i:rffe declares that Germany Intends
to restore the Itusslan Baltic provinces.
dui that Ittissu must recognize that the
new situation fretted In Poland cannot
be changed. The paper argues that In
tatting I'oi.ind Germany was rc.illy ren
derlng a service to Itussia and that, de
!l ".'TO" ..l.0. br""F """'""'" I ne o acci'r t an I thing even rimoy ! deht almost have treated It as a pU-.Prlved of Poland. Hussia w III form a
llltl rUUl Ui 11 K lliA-H II (I Hl'ArV Jt It n f f ... ... .
child.
resembling a humiliating obligation, hut
i In a Europe, freed of the spldcrweb of
. i dark and treacherous treaties, lu a Ku-
ASLEEP SINCE MARNE BATTLE. ' rope Inwardly cleansed, we ate ready to
confer with the strong ones of the hem-
, Isphere nnd to agree with them as to 'he
, scope of armament. In honent conjunc
tion with all States we will submit to
T..10,rl.m.,, "r"'W?r" Germany to speak thus, then
Ltinlln,! .....I I .... l.n
tonlo manifestation, but evidently we Germany wilt never tillow Ilussla to
arc in the presence of the first outlines I possess Constantinople," according to
Mildlrr'a Condition for 27 Mob
railed lly.terlral Lethargy.
HonPCAL'x, Dec. 24.
of a singer, aged 31 years, who has
week from l"'n m a 'Mtt of lethargy for twenty-
the paper, "but is ready to negotiate.
with Turkey and Hus-sl.i an arrangement
permitting Itusslan warships ond mer
chantmen to navigate tho straits."
LYAUTEY TO DIRECT WAR.
COAST GUARD CUTTER
SAVES BARK NEPTHIS
jecelpts In 1915 of only $4,477. less than J,.azijan Derelict Picked Up
half the amount required. Tho annual'
After Hawser Had Parted
in Snowstorm.
rrnt in the present building Is only
l. o'l. The maintenance or the new struc
ture. It Is estimated, will cost about
$3,800. Thus- the Government, besides
making a large Initial outlay, will be
forced to make future annual expendi
ture for maintenance from ten to fifteen Tho Urazlllan bark Nepthls, which
times tho amount previously laid out for after a tussle with tumbling seas. In tow
rental, . I of the Urazlllan tug Garibaldi, parted
I her hawser In a snowstorm on tho night
eminence, Ky.i to the Forr. of December 13, about thirty-five miles
Eminence, Ky Is In the same cate-1 southeast of Fire Island, is on her way to
trnrv with linznrd and Mount riiivo i Ihls port In charge of the coast guard
There Is a $40,000 appropriation for cutter Seneca. At noon yeaterday the
Eminence, the bill tacitly acknowledging , cutter and the bark, according to a wire-
that the money Is for n post office alone,
as no other Federal activities are men
tioned. The 1910 census gave Eminence
a population of 1.274. The postal re.
relpts labt year were only $4,402. S3. The
present rental for post oftice quarters
less message sent from the Seneca to
t'npt. Dunwoody, division commander of
the Coast Guard Service, were about ISO
'miles off Sandy nook.
The Nepthls waa on her way from
Maranham, Ilrazll, to be converted Into
there Is only $193 a year. Hut the cost an American steamship. She had broken
nf keeping up the new building will he adrift twice from tho Garibaldi before
In excess of $3,700, I the tug finally lost her In a snow per-
ureen Kiver, wyo., is ona or tne rare moated gale. Her Urazlllan crew anch
northern villages to be favored for np- Dred her when she drifted Into soundings
proprlatlons of this nature. Il Is to get 1(n, then shlverlngly went below. The
a $25,000 building for post office uses, ttnini, steamship Sardegna, from the
although tho postal receipts last year Mediterranean for this port, came along
were only $4,370,18. Itepresentntlve )l4ter nmt tooit 0ff all hands, landing
.Montieu receives creuii mr uuiuimng , them here gomewhat crippled from ex
linn 1I7 uii in vtwu.
Itossvllle, ua., in itepreseniauve iee g
district, will get a $25,000 building
which will be used as a post ornce ana
for the civil wrvlce. Itossvllle has a
population of about 1,200 and Its posral
..... ...... n.AM nn1t. IIAfll,
TheZlntinancIwIII cos, about' IWOO I J,.S?.?f.1J,ll.P.'laJ,Ah.r.;
mmuallv. although the rental now Is i"A.u' ... ''"" "" "-
tihly $398.
nosure.
The Garibaldi, which put In here to
coal, started out after the Nepthls, hop
ing to find her where she had dropped her
mudhook. Other galea had taken charge
of her and she had dragged anchor Into
Christmas day had not the stores i
speeded up their machinery and been
able to rely upon tho voluntary coopera
tion of employees. One nf these store
managers expressed the hope that New
Yorkers who celebrated happily last
night and to-day will think pleasantly
of the army of men and women whose
own fun had to be put off.
Kxpre.s Companies noshed.
The express companies teported un
precedented activity yesterday. The
companies do not deliver on a Sunday
ordinarily, but on a Sunday Just preced
ing Chiistmus day, with the barns
stacked high with presents and much
perishable material, everybody had to
hustle and the wagons nnd trucks were
on the go early and late. Several of the
companies had guaranteed deliveries by
Christmas morning and they did their
best to fulfil the guarantee. In some i
directions their good Intentions were
bested by late trains from the West,
trains that were bringing thousands of
holiday turkeys from Iowa. Ksnas nnd
other States of tho middle West. An
official of thn American Kxpresa Com
pany Bald thousands of turkeys that 1
should have arrived here on Saturday
morning hadn't como yet und that he
feared there would be mnny turkcyless
dinners In New York In consequence.
Through trains on the New York Cen
tral were from two to eight hours late,
and on the Pennsylvania from two to
six hours.
Tho post oftice parcel post delivery
force put In one of Its hardest days
yesterduy. If It hadn't worked at top
speed many Christinas dinners nnd
many Christmas eve and Christmas day
gift celebrations would have been ut
terly spoiled. In the various brunches
of the post office perishable material,
turkeys and chickens mostly, were piled
high and It was considered Impossible
to wait until to-day before making dis
tributions. The delivery force was espe
cially rushed In the thickly populated
sections ot the city. Extra wagons were
put In service and deliveries were begun
at 6 A. M.
An extraordinary number of turkeys
and chickens mid ducks were sent to
persons In tho city by relatives or
friends In the country, all this In uddl
Hon to the mounds of parcels contain
Ing holiday remembrances of one suit
or another. Most of the sub-stations
had from ten to fifteen wagons working
all day yesterday to clean up Christmas
deliveries. At the General Post Office
It was said all Christmas mall wit' havo
been delleverd by noon to-day It waa
hoped. Anyway, they were doing their
level best.
the world would Jubilantly cheer her
even months, ha heen rtrll-a t .C- genius, t-n prou.il .-onsvi ,ua ui hi, in
by Prof.
ture , then tho world would frankly
plaud G,crm.in's courage of soul."
ap-
PATRICK WILL MARRY
Medical and Surgical Society
verger.
The patient was among the troons
mobilized for the battle of the Ma me, 1
He disappeared, but was found shortly
atltpu-nril It, I ) r I ....... - .-1 .. . ,.,1.1.1. .1 f
he has been sleeping, eyelids closed. . OIL MAN'S DAUGHTER
respiration regular, but pulse rapid. He
Is sensitive to excitement, says the de-'
scrlptlon of the case given by Prof. !
verger, such stimulation provoking a Engagement, of Man Sentenced
weak defence without, however, Inter-1 " "
Three Times to Die Is
ruptlng his sleep, and It Is possible to
administer liquid food.
Prof. Verger concludes that the case
Is ono of hysterical-lethargy and that
It Is likely the man will eventually
awake and resume his normal occupation.
A new building for niiiiiiiigton, 'lenn.
will cost 125,1100, HuiilliiKloii has a pop
ulation of little more than 1,000 ami had
postal receipts In 1910 of only $1,427.28.
b'pace In the building la deulrod by the
baldl to the derelict. This means that
the owners of the Nepthls will not have
to pay a cent for her salving, Undo Sam
not having the right to tax anybody for
the gallantry of his able seamen of the
Coaat Guard Service. But maybe tho
oonalgneea of th baric will give U crow
ot tbe cutUr Ctoktma fnwab
JDd N. V. Infantry DeUrd
Pit Mill, Tex., Dec. 21, The Twenty
SANTA WEDGED IN CHIMNEY.
Illoomfleld Cop Find. Hint Jammed
Head Downward In Fireplace.
Santa Claus, or at least the negro
edition of Kris, owes his Ilfo nnd liberty
to Illg Jack Marshall, the heavyweight
policeman of Hloomtleld, N. J, For
Santa Claus got wedged In f4ie chimney
whllo en route with a bag of toys for
little Sam Jackson, and Illg Jack had
to pull nut a section of the cabin wall
to free him.
Tho policeman was on hla way home
yesteruay morning when lie was stopped
by Kam, a diminutive youngster and
very black, who told htm throuch
copious tears that Santa needed help,
i no two iiurrirn to tne nousc, drawn bv
frantic cries that could bo heard several
lilocKs. in an open nrenlace. wedred
head downward, was Washington Jack
son, Sammy's brothor. He was rltted nn
with wool whiskers and all the other
nppurtenanceH, but he waa very sooty
and he wanted to atop playing Santa
Claus.
of an understanding petween ncuirais
who suffer from the war.
"The movement merits careful atten
tion from tho Allies. We must not al
ti.iv ....liters to drag on. If polemic dls-
' cussions of principles are sturted. there)
I will bo no end of them. uie oniy
answer for the Allies must be one which
I win rut short such a flood of debate."
Tho unanimous vote of the Senate
affirming that France cannot conclude
peace with an enemy who occupies ncw Minister ot War. last night for the
French territory, coining m mo m nrst Time participated In tho war council
time as tho peace note of the Swiss headed by President Polncare.
Government, has stirred anew the i It was decided that all questions con
French press nnd public. The action cernlng the preparation and carrying
ot the Senate gave further Indication of on of tho war be under tho direction of
the attitude of tne Allies toward rrrsi- tnc War Minister, who Is to notify the
Interested Ministers and Generals-ln-Chlef
of the decisions taken and assure
the coordination necessary to their
execution.
Announced.
Tulsa, Okla., Dee, 24i Albert T. Pat
rick, wealthy oil man, who was sen
tenced three times to die In Sing Sing
Prison on tho charge of killing William
Marsh Itlce of New lork, announced
Nrvr Minister to llnvr Full Control
of 1'rnnce'. Purt.
Pamh, Dec. 24. (Ten. l,auley, the
dent Wilson's proposals, and confidence
voted In tho Hrland Ministry was re
garded most favorably.
Pity for Switzerland.
The Foreign Affairs Committee of the
Chamber devoted a large part of the
session yesterday to an examination of
President Wilson s note.
Tho Petit Journal suggests that Presi
dent Wilson, In sending the note, know
he would havo the swport of Switzer
land nnd says: "France pltlos Its
neighbor, menaced like llelglum, per-
. ... , , ),, France, wmcn u a noi wnni
here to-day his engagement to Miss Mil-; nj U0VR r,,mt are PUKg(,stlon
Ure? .We'4L"f, n't,: " .Th'm? p' i that honor and Interest prevent It from
VlillUil J " '- ti a tit J u.l v ,
President Wilson's proposal to tin)
belligerent Towers for a compaiiao
of views In a movement for peace bu
len followed by a noto from Swltxr
land expressing Mmllar desires.
It Is believed in Germany and la)
Washington thut other neutral Poweri,
particularly Spain and tho Scandi
navian countries, will Immediately
follow tho American nnd Swiss ex
amples to present to the world a solid
neutral front advocating a cessation t
hostilities.
Thu Impulso of Franco is to regard
ProMdcnt WII.som'h noto as unfriendly,
but lioeauso of tho relief work dona In
Franco by Americans, und because of
tlio widespread lollcf that tho Ameri
can public Is friendly to tho French
cause, there 1h great reluctance to
condemn the President severely.
At tho siirac time public comment la
Franco warms to the action of the
French Senate In unanimously affirm
ing thut Franco cannot conclude peace
with the enemy on French soil.
Maximilian Harden, the German
publicist, suggests an immediate arm
istice In an article completely stripped
of the harsh phrases ho used to em
ploy against Germany's enemies. He
advocates a community hand of war
ring nations. In which all will guar
antee tho credits of each. In view of
the huge sums required to rebuild
Europe ho finds talk of indemnities
out of the question.
Opinion In Rerlln on the note Is di
vided. In many quarters It Is believed
that tho United States has set a trap
for Germany In tho Intctest of the
Allies, other comment Is friendly. Its
tone being that at length after many
siioplcinits acts tlio United States has
adopted n. neutral course When re
port." of tho note wero first published
In Herlln they were merely brief ex
tracts and wore confusing.
The Coloyiir Cmxrttr, discussing
peace terms, says Germany Intends to
restore the Ilussl.in Baltic provinces
but will rrftiw absolutely to change
the new situation of Poland. Germany
will never permit Hiissla to possess
Constantinople, the paper ndds, but Is
willing to negotiate with Turkey and
P.iis.sia an ngreetnent permitting: Rus
sian ships of wnr and of peace to
pass through tlio Straits.
Italian public men ami newspapers
indulge in comment more hostile than
that of the other warring nations. The
note is due to a Teuton trick, they
find, nnd state that Italy's peace terms
were made known upon her entrance
Into the wnr. Italy will light until she
regains the Italian provinces now la
the hands of Austria, they say.
Patrick was pardoned November 27,
1013, nfter a long fight, in which his late
wife, who was before her marrlago Mrs.
Addle M. Francis, played a prominent
part. She spent all her money la the
legal battle for his release. Mrs. Patrick
died on December 19, 1913, In Tulsa,
fcinrhlir.'
Tho Prtlt Pirf.ilen s.iys the Swiss note
confirms one of tho declarations of Pres
ident Wilson, referring to discussions
eneaned In live weeks ago between Hern
. ......l.t f. ...1.4-. HTh. .tnA.
nnil wnsiiiiiKiuii. ..... i..!,. . , Mevleo
j nurtnniiii nrfim tint nn 1 Males (-.Ulg l" .Ml Ml O
O.Cferi.n ii. - - .,,,,,.,,, (.T.il.rallim
MEXICO JOINS U. S. IN
HYMN ACROSS BORDER
Mtcriinte Stnnzns Sung on
Knell Side of Frontier
Line.
France will not forget the
Kaoi.k Pass, Ton . Dec. 21 Mexico
sang to the t'nlted States and the United
In an unuiu.il
Christmas i elebratlon here to.nlght,
choir of
i ,i...
I.J 1... il... KuImh nf the Internal wncil .1 . niriiii.iT l
Okla. It was the belief or many that 1 ";n"trl.ud people but has a right Pledws Negr-is I toman Catholic church,
the commutation of Patrick's death sen-1 ""I "If.1" Xc war the Entente standing on the Mexican nido of tho Itlo
Hlgglns and later his pardon, by Gov- ," 8 , 0 C(.ntrul Pow-ers." "Aileste Fldeles" Como Ye Faithful
ernor Dlx were due In Inrgo part to tho "S " t" i-enirui i,m(,ii..,.i..
SWISS GOVERNMENT
APPROVES PRESIDENT
WILSON'S PROPOSALS
WAR TIME DUEL UNPATRIOTIC.
So Deputy Vebrr and Cant. Tl.i.
eyre Call Off Tbelr Encounter.
PAnis, Saturday, Dec. 23, A duel be
tween Frenchmen In war limes would be
n real offence against patriotism. Such
was the formal declaration signed to-day
by the seconds of Deputy Adrien Veber
and Capt. Charles Tlsaeyre, and the pro
posed encounter was abandoned.
The two men had engaged In an argu
ment, In which a blow was said to have
been struck, a challenge following.
Edgar nonllany Wounded Again.
Special Cable- Heipolck to Tits Sr,
I'AltlH, Dec. 24. Edgar lioullgny of
success of Mrs. Patrick In Influencing
public opinion In favor of her husband.
She was married to Patrick In the Tombs
shortly following his first conviction.
TANK SHIP OUTRIDES" DALE.
Engine. Are Iltsahlrdf bnt Eman
uel Nobel'. Anchor. Hold.
Haucax, N, S., Dec. 24. The Helglan
motor tank ship Emanuel Nobel, la peril
off Sober Island, rode out tho storm In
safety. At sunrise to-day the ship's
anchors still held and fears ror her sit
uation were relieved when the wind
Feeling; of the Allies.
The Echo de Paris says: "Our tesn.
lutlon will demonstrate onco more that
the Federal council woum ne mistaken
as to the feeling of the Allies, and the
French In particular, If It believed them
disposed to negotiate with Germany,
Germany has attempted the same effort
In Switzerland as In the other European
neutral countries to procure benevolent
Intervention. Switzerland needs tho vic
tory of the Allies to prevent her own
absorption by Germany."
The .lfnffa says: "It must be re
marked that the Federal Council sup-
died down pons tne enorm .inwricn niiaoui na
iler engines aro disabled and assist- soclatlng Itself with regard to the qties-
nn hiis been sent to trv to lir nir her' t ons. Ilisirnii ui iinnii.K mr iiovrill
Into this port. The Nobel Is hound from
Itouen, France, for Newport News,
third New York Infantry, scheduled in I New Orleans, who Is a sergeant la the
leave here to-day for home, will not tie- French Foreign Legion, bus been
purt before to-morrow and possibly as wounded, inougn ins wound Is not
late us Tuesday, It was announced at dangerous, he la now in the American
baadquarura to-night. Mo rcaaoa for I Ambulance Hospital. TM U Uia laird
Mm (taier waa fires, JMaee
LONG MAY BE LANSING'S AID.
Mt, Louis Man Indicated for Assist
ant Secretary of State.
Washington. Dec. 24. Rreckenrldge
Kong of St. Louis probably will be nomi
nated by President Wilson as Assistant
Secretary of State to succeed John .
Osborne of Wyoming, who resigned ie.
cently.
meats to make known tho objects of the
wnr. It limits ItBelf to tho very honor
iihtn wish that peace be concluded now,
and homage Is to be rendered to the
sentiments dictating tho note."
ned Ball Ordered fnr To-day.
Appropriately enough. Park Commis
sioner Ward will celebrate Christmas
to-day by hoisting the red hall iilstve
Van Cortlandt Park at S o'clock thU
morning. After several days of testing
snd doubting the workmen repotted List
night that the Ice was thick enough to
picked up by a member of tho choir of
the Eagle Pans Church of Our Lady or
Kcfuge on the Texas b ink of tho in
ternational liiiundjiy. Alternating In
this manner, tho entire hymn was sung.
In the local Human Catholic Church
regular soldiers nnd Tennessee and
Maryland guardsmen sang "Silent
Night," the hymn being rendered In
thirteen languages, Including English,
Spanish, itusslan, Greek, Syrian and Jap.
tinese,
PRESIDENT SINGS CAROLS.
Mr. Long la a lawyer and haa taken bear New York's vast crowds of skaters.
pronlaent part la politic aa a Detao- and the Commissioner ordered that the
aetA . ,L take be Urown open ta-dajr,
Manila for an Hour on Step, of the
I'reu.ury Hulldlng.
Washinuton, Dec. 21. The President
and Mrs. Wilson attended a community
Christmas eve celebration here to-day
nnd for more than tin hour stood on the
Mens of the Treasury Department sing
ing Christmas carols with several thou
sand men, women and children. The
celebration wns held under the auspices
nf thn Washington Playgrounds Axsu
elation.
A large Christmas treo has been put
up on the second Hour of the While
IlmiMi for to-morrow celebration, In
which JnwMihlne Cothnin, the Presi
dent's grand-niece, and Ellen McAdoo.
his granddaughter, will be the principal
Washington. Dec. 24. Switzerland
has come to the support of President
Wilson's notes to the belligerents In
Europe. In notes addressed to all the
belligerents nnd neutrals, the Swiss Fed
eral Council IndotseH tho President's ae.
tlmi nnd offers Its services "for the
tapprochctnent of thn peoples now en
gaged In the struggle and for reaching
n lasting peace." Tho noto from the
Swiss Government to the United States
was made public to-night by Secretary
Lansing.
President Wilson Is understood to be
much gratltled, and hopes that this may
be only the Initial Instance of where
neutral Governments fall In line In In
dorsement of his effort to end tho war.
Thero is a belief here that Spain will
shortly follow Switzerland's lead and
that tho Scandinavian countries may
later be heard from together with rr
publics on the American continent.
Should the neutral nations of the world
present a solid ftotit la support of the
President's notes, it Is felt here that
they will be given added weight by the
warring nations.
Indorsement Was Expected,
The probability of Indorsement from
the Swiss Government had been given
consideration here ns soon as the Amer
ican notes were despatched. Paul Hitter,
the Swis Minister, is understood to
have Informed Secretary Lansing that
he had taken upon himself the responsi
bility of urging his Government to re
quest the United States to take some
action , toward bringing about a rap
prochement between the Powers which
tho German notes were regarded aa
rendering possible.
Hecause of the fart that the activi
ties of the Swiss Minister here have been
admittedly In support of the German
peace pleas the ellc t of the Swiss in
dorsement of President Wilson's notes
will not please the Entento Powers. In
Entente circles tho action of Switzer
land Is nlready leg.irded as added proof
that the Presidents action Is necezsarlly
affiliated with German proposals.
Entente diplomats point out that the
0wlaa MtalaUr went to Ut.
