Fair: colder tonight and tomorrow; C7T\J^ ^ 5J7iA . ^ ^^ ^ ^ ^ r -w /> L4 Merry Christmas '
I if.IIP Iril PTiTTI IT TWlSl I to Every One.
day; lowest, :.*!). at 4 a.m. today. I / b b b_ ^b b b . b b b b b b b b b b b j
FUI1 report on page 15. j Vp I'V' 4 l> l^V\
_z====. :? - " ~- I . B | 71 ^ Swora Net Circulation. Month ( November.
>^P 1916. Dally Average, 70,557i Suaday, 58.981
No. 29,543. WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, DECEMBER 25, 3916?EIGHTEEN PAGES. ONE CENtT
? ~ ? ? : ? ". ? T : " i " ~~? ?
"PEACE ON EARTH"
REAL HOPE TODAY
' MID NOEL FEASTS
i Nation's Capital Prays "Good
Will to Men" Will Pervade
All Europe.
l
nccD dci imnno iun-rr
ulli ntLmiuuo ivuil
^MARKS CELEBRATIONS j;
White House Leads Washington ,
Homes in Juvenile Revels Around '
the Yuletide Tree.
Christmas is being- celebrated in
^ Washington today with a deeper re- i
ligious note, perhaps, than has been i
ihe case for many years, owing to the ]
recent talk ofxpeace in Europe as the 1
result of President Wilson's communications
to the powers and the news .
of this morning that Switzerland has 1
announced its support of President
Wilson's appeal for a discussion of
peace terms. ]
On every side the people are talking *
of the real meaning of the old Christ- <
mas phrase, "Peace on earth, good will 1
to men." In the churches special ser- \
mons on peace have been preached.
The day marks the end of a two-arid- I
a-half-dav holiday, in which all gov- 5
ernment departments have been closed. A
and as Congress is in recess there is ;
little official activity. Practically all *
members of the cabinet are in the ^
capital, and, with clear, cold weather ^
as an ideal condition for outdoor celebration.
the people are afoot, carrying
their messages of good will, of fun and .
of charity Into the homes of rich and (
poor alike.
In Memory of Mrs. Boissevain. 3
Many persons are planning to wend
their way to the Capitol this afternoon,
where at 4 o'clock suffragists, charity q
workers and others are preparing: to 1 t
do honor to the memory of the iate I s
Inez Milholland Boissevain. At the g
Young Women's Christian Association 1
open house is being kept this after- s
noon. c
The Associated Charities' workers *
, have been greatly occupied all day
with administering to the needs of the J
poor and serving as the clearing house *
for the charitable Washington public J3
which has sent gifts of money for the
"Fourteen Opportunities" in the poorer A
. homes of the city. At the Gospel Mia- *
sion. the Central Union Mission, the ?
Salvation Army and other charitable P
organizations, special efforts are being g
made to care for the unfortunate. In ?
the jail, the workhouse, the almshouse, "
the orphan asylums, the hospitals, the
same care for the unhappy, the sick 8
and the poor is being exercised. *
Jollity at the White House. ?
In the homes of the capital the bless- I
ings of peace are being fully realized. ?
A large Christmas tree has been placed ^
on the second floor of the White House s
for today's celebration, in which Jo- F
sephine Cothran. the President's grandniece,
and Ellen McAdoo, his granddaughter.
are the principal figures. The
President has furnished a good example
of the common ties which bind
mankind in America at this time by t
mingling democratically yesterday afternoon
with the public before the
Treasury building, to sing the old-time
Christmas carols with them. The President
has no engagements for today
and does not plan to go to his office. In
fjuiet and happiness, the spirit of peace
hovers over the capital, perhaps over
the whole earth, if. in accordance with
the recently expressed hope of President
Wilson, in his communications to
the powers, he can obtain from them "a
response which will bring a new light
into the affairs of the world."
DRAFTEE OF ROUND ROBIN UP.
Member of Ohio National Guard Is
Facing Trial.
KL PASO, Tex.. December 2.1.?It is
announced by Gen. George Bell, jr..
commander of the provisional division
h?-re, that Private Dixon of the 8th
Ohio Infantry would be called before a d
summary court tomorrow to answer the s
charge of having drafted the "round v
robin." which was signed by approxi- *
rnately 400 members of the 8th Ohio ' t
Jnfantrv and sent to an Akron. Ohio, r
newspaper, but intercepted en route.
Twenty or more non-commissioned 1
officers of this regiment who signed the t
"round robin," protesting against camp v
conditions, will be asked to resign and j
return to the ranks because of their r,
"unmilitarv actions," according to the y
district commander.
SLEEPS 27 MONTHS.- [
Singer Among Mobilized Troops in *
Unbroken State of Lethargy.
BORDEAUX. December 2o.?The curi- 1
our case of a mincer, aged thirty-one
* years. who has been in a state of]
lethargy for twenty-seven months, has
) been described to the Medical and j '
Surgical Society by Prof. Verger. The!1
I patient was among the troops mobilized j '
for the battle of the Karne. He disap- \
peared, but was found shortly after- 1
ward in Brittany, since wlych time he
has been sleeping, eyelids closed, respiration
regular, but pulse rapid. He is i
sensitive to excitement, says the de- ; .
scription of th?- case, given by Prof.! .
Verger, such stimulation provoking a!
weak defense without, however, inter-!'
rupting his sleep, and it is possible to j '
administer liquid food. ! ?
Prof. Verger concludes that the case! '
is one of hysterical lethargy, and that '
it is likely the man will eventually 1
awake and resume his normal oceupa- ; '
tion.
.
With the Troops in Mexico. j
ED VALLE. San Huena Ventura. Chihuahua.
Mexico, December 25. by wireless
to Columbus, N. M.?There was a
Fourth of July tinge to the Christmas
celebration at this camp, which is the
V extreme southern point of the American
army's punitive expedition. Nearly i
$200 worth of fireworks, set off ChristI.
mas eve, consoled the soldiers in <
camp for their inability to hang up
stockings and brought something akin
to alarm to the residents of El Valle.
Christmas day itself was given over to
ports, a turkey dinner and a moving
picture program.
. -
CHRISTMAS SPIRIT
IS ABROADIN UNO
Rich in Many Cities Share
Good Things of Life With
Poor Neighbors.
U. S. SAILORS PLAY SANTA
[5v tlif Associate! I'rcss.
NEW YORK, December 25.? Not tlie ,
least interesting feature of the Christ- j
mas celebration here was the part tak- ,
en by two of the largest American bat-!
tleships. the New York and the Penn- j
sylvania, crews of which played Santa i
Claus with their vessels at the service
>f the children. Between 4,000 and 5,000
hungry children were provided with a
Christmas dinner and a toy made pos
sible by collections among: members of
the crews that netted nearly $4,000.
rhe chief boatswain ^of each ship
ippeared in the role of Kris Kringle.
Though the entertainment is primarily
an enlisted man's affair and receives
no official sanction from navy
vard officials, it nevertheless is given
official assistance by the tacit suspen- !
sion of rules barring children from
the yard and ships.
The Christmas observance in this city
began last night with the flashing into
life of the great "tree of light" in
Madison Square. At midnight prayers
"or world peace were offered at mass in
Roman Catholic churches. With
"hristmas trees in police stations
hroughout the greater city, the police
icted as Santa Ciaus to approximately
15.000 children.
Under the personal direction of
Evangeline Booth, commander, who, despite
her ill health and against the adrice
of her physician, undertook the
vork. the Salvation Army distributed
>.000 baskets. The baskets this year
lave a greater value than ever before,
rhe cost at wholesale of the provender
vas $10,650, or $2.13 a basket. Last
'ear the cost was $1.79 each.
Reports from department stores, exmess
companies and the post office
ndicate that this Christmas is a rec>rd
breaker. One estimate puts New
fork's Christmas bill as approaching
>150.000,000.
Glad Christmas in Philadelphia.
PHILADELPHIA, December 25.?
"he Christmas spirit that permeated
he city today found practical expresion
for many in bountiful dinners and
:enerous gift giving to thousands of
he city's poor. In virtually every intitution
housing the sick, aged or
hildren there were elaborate preparaions
for the holiday.
Baskets, heaped with food, clothes,
andies and toys were distributed by
he Helping Hand Rescue Mission. A
>ig dinner featured the day for homeess
boys at the Children's Aid Society.
it the University Hospital a commitee
of society women erected trees in
very ward. At the Philadelphia Hos
itai men ana vomen were
uests of the bureau of charities, while
00 patients were entertained at Byerry
farm.
Sailors on the United States battlehips
at the Philadelphia navy yard
.'ere hosts to many children, and preented
them with Rifts of clothing,
andy and toys. Seamen on the inerned
German cruisers Prinz Eitel
"riedrich and Kronprinz Wilhelm joind
in the festivities. Nearly 1,000
'hristmas packages will be distributed
y religious and other societies to the
ailors on foreign ships laid up at this
>ort because of the war.
Mail Far Behind in Chicago.
CHICAGO, December 25.?Thousands
f sacks of first class and parcel post
nail are blockaded in the railroad tertiinals
here. Coming from every direcion
the Christmas mail overwhelmed
he railroads, and deliveries are said
o be four or five days behind. Outgong
mail also is delayed. Every train
unning out of <'hlcago has four or five
xtra mail cars. Hundreds of sacks |
vere piled in the open sheds of the i
ailroad stations today.
"Mail will he from two to ten days
ate throughout the country," said L.eoy
Steward, head of the city delivery
livisiori of the post office. "One of the
easons for the great delay is that i
learly everybody mailed Christmas
ards in sealed envelopes this year,
'hese envelopes are delaying the delivry
of package mail.
"It will take at least a week for the
"hicago post office and the railroad
erminals to dispose of the mail that is
oming here. There are fifty wagons
slivering parcel post and it will take
he carriers all day to deliver the one
rip scheduled for today."
Not Local to Chicago.
"The mail now in Chicago terminals
loes not belong here," said E. L. West,
uperintendent of the middle west rail- j
ray mail service division. "It is being (
ransferred from one railroad to an- 1
tther. to be taken to the different sec- j
ions of the country. J have called for j
nore cars from the railroads, but they j
v ere unable to supply them."
Gems from the Tower of Jewels of {
he Panama-Pacific exposition sparkled j
ime ??i a. nunureu searenights
on Chicago's municipal Christnas
tree last night. Thousands of perons
filled Grant Park and joined in the
inging of Christmas carols, led by a
core or more choral societies. The fornal
lighting of the tree was preceded
?y a parade of city* officials, cavalry nen,
naval reserve and citizens. There
vere no electric lights on the tree itelf
nor in the grove of small trees surounding
its base. The brilliant effect
vas obtained entirely by the searchights.
Celebration in San Francisco.
SAN FRANCISCO, December 25.?San j
Francisco celebrated Christmas eve last J
light with a concert in the civic aulitorium.
at which a musical pageant
was presented. This year's festival was
:he first one undertaken by the municipal
authorities.
Candles Gleam on Beacon Hill.
BOSTON, December 25.?Bands of
iingers trooped through the streets
last night singing of peace on earth. ;
?ood will to men. On Beacon hill arid !
in the suburbs, in accordance with ari j
>ld custom, the musicians were greeted !
with the glow of innumerable candles'
with which the residents marked the I
arrival of Christmas eve. Thousands I
f men. women and children who fol- !
owed the. singers joined in the more 1
familiar hymns.
on the Common a great Christmas,
tree was brilliantly lighted, while in j
:he l'arkman memorial bandstand near- j
by there was carol singing and a concert.
Gift for City of St. Louis.
ST. LOUIS. Mo., December 25.?August
A. Buscli was host yesterday afternoon
and last evening to 8,000 children.
many of them orphans, when the
latter gathered at a big downtown
Christmas tree celebration. Each orphan
received a sweater and cap from
Buscb.
David K. Francis, ambassador to Russia.
donated sixty acres of land, valued
at $60,000. to the city for park and
playground purposes. ^ |
MERRY CHRISM
FOR DISOLOIERS
Men on Border Are Receiving
Today Presents From Washington's
Citizens.
MANY AT MILITARY MASS
by j. crosby McCarthy.
Staff Correspondent.
| SAX ANTONIO, Tex., Camp Wilson,
| Camp of the 3d L>. C. Infantry and
Troop A, Cavalry, December 25.?The
, militiamen from the District of Colum
i bia today are enjoying a Christmas
I that they will remember the rest of
j their lives. As the result of the geni
erosity of the citizens of Washington,
! expressed in the gifts purchased with
i the fund raised through The Star and
i of the hundreds of remembrances
j which the militiamen have received
from friends and relatives, their Christmas
here in the borderland has been
almost as happy for them as if they
were spending it at their firesides. The
manner in which the folk back home
have remembered the soldiers has exceeded
the expectations of every one.
j The District militiamen today feel
! that they have fared better than any of
! the 17.000 soldiers in camp. The 3d In[
fan try and Troop A are the only units
in this great reservation whose men re!
ceived a Christmas remembrance in
the name of citizens of their home city.
[ The restrict men also point with pride
to a statement made by the camp postmaster
that the organizations from the
National Capital received almost twice
as many Christmas packages from
home as any other like number.
D. C. Men All Remembered.
There is hardly a man in camp who
would not have rather been at his home
toaay. ana yet everyone agrees tnat,
not being able to gratify this wish,
their Christmas has been made as
happy as otherwise could be the case.
When mess call sounded this morning
the men lined up with their mess kits
in record-breaking time, for it had
previously been announced that at
breakfast they were to receive the gifts
provided by the citizens of Washington.
The men of some of the companies
found their bags full of presents
at their places at the mess tables,
while others were handed theirs as
they entered the buildings. The company
commanders acted as assistants
to Santa Claus, and as they handed the
bags of gifts to their men as they
filed past they wished them a merry
Christmas.
Today the District militiamen are
speaking in the terms of highest appreciation
for the citizens of Washington
who contributed to the fund
raised by The Star, which has brought
Christmas cheer into the camp.
AH awe greatly pleased with the assortment
of articles presented to them.
Men who do not smoke have lost no
time in trading their cigars, cigarettes
and tobacco for the candy received by
their comrades. The big bath towel
and the two handkerchiefs which each
package contained made a hit with the
IlltTII, <411U uir IUUIII ?*MU M1H \ 111^
soap also were greatly appreciated.
Every article contained in the assortment
of gifts from the citizens of
Washington is something of practical
value for which the soldier finds use
every day of his life in camp.
Many Go to Holy Communion.
Many of the District militiamen attended
holy communion which was
celebrated this morning in the Y. M.
C. A. building adjoining the 3d Regiment
camp, by Bishop Capers of the
Protestant Episcopal, diocese of West
Texas, assisted by Archdeacon Garden.
Chaplain Smith of thg 3d District Infantry
arid chaplains Clinch of the 3d
Illinois arid Willis of tiie 3d West Virginia
regiments also assisted.
Archdeacon Garden and chaplain
Smith made addresses at a band concert
and entertainment held in the association
building last night, and vocal
selections were given by soloists of
San Antonio and the 3d Regiment
Quartet.
In the camp of the 3d Illinois Regiment.
which adjoins that of the District
troops, a military field mass was
celebrated at midnight, and many of
the citizen soldiers from Washington
were in attendance. An altar was
erected in the midst of a setting of
evergreen trees. Eight was furnished
bv about twentv acetylene lamns that
were arranged on the hillside where
the service was held. Hundreds of
khaki-clad men. with heads bowed in
prayer, presented an impressive scene.
In addition to being excused from all
duties today the District militiamen
also are to have a holiday tomorrow,
for a camp order has been issued allowing
everybody a day in which to
rest up from the festivities of t'hristmas.
KAISER SENDS CHRISTMAS
GREETINGS TO HIS ARMY
LONDON, December 25.? A dispatch to
the Exchange Telegraph Company from
Amsterdam says Emperor William has
sent the following Christmas greetings to
all the German armies and to Germans
at home:
"Honor to God above, peace on earth
and to man, happiness. God bless the
third war Christmas of all those away in
the field and of those at home in our dear
fatherland.
"WILLIAM."
CANNOT RESTORE POLAND.
Neither Is Germany Willing Russia
Shall Have Constantinople.
LONDON, December 25.?An Amsterdam
dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph
Company says :
"Prefacing an evidently inspired leading
editorial with the statement that Germany
does not desire to create a feeling
of revenge in Russia which would provoke
another war, the Cologne Gazette
declares that Germany intends to restore
: the Russian Baltic provinces, but that
Russia must recognize that the new situation
created in Roland cannot be changed.
The paper argues that in taking Poland
Germany was really rendering a service
to Russia, and that deprived of Poland
Russia will form a united and homogeneous
empire.
"Germany will never allow Russia to
possess Constantinople, according to the
paper, but is ready to negotiate with Turkey
and Russia an arrangement permitting
Russian warships and merchantmen
to navigate the stiaits."
Col. Frederick N. Lawrence Dies.
NEW YORK, December 25. ? Col.
Frederick Newbold Lawrence, once
president of the Union Club and president
of the New York Stock Exchange,
has died here, in his eighty-third year.
k;
i
I
hsensig
bridgehead of matchin
i
Bussc-Rumanian Forces Subjected to
Heavy Pressure in Northwestern
Dcbrudja.
Br th#* An.H??riate?l Pr^.<
Tl? I ' t> r I T lAnumWAi1 9 hf II il'frlflCK t r\
Sayville, X. Y.?Field Marshal von
Mackensen's Dobrudja army, after capturing
Isaktcha, on the Danube, has
begun an attack on the bridgehead of
Matchin, in the northwestern corner of
Dobruja province, to which the Russo- I
Rumanian forces have retreated, army j
headquarters announced today.
Russians Gain Footing.
j On the Moldavian frontier an attack j
I by the Russians ga ve them a footing !
| on a height north of the L'zu 1 valley. !
i British troops, after artillery prepa- j
, ration, attacked the Germano-Bul-j
garian lines between the Vardar and I
Lake Doiran, on the Macedonian front,
army headquarters announces. The attack
was un%uccessful and costly to
the assaulting forces.
Petrograd Reports Hard Fighting.
PKTROGRAD, December 24, via
London, December 25.?The official
statement issued today deals with the
situation on the Rumanian front as
follows:
"Throughout the day the enemy was
active in the region between Kassina j
and Zaballa villages. In the region of |
Galberenul and Drogul the enemy, .
j under cover of his heavy artillery, repeatedly
attacked us. Desperate fight- <
I ing continued here throughout the day.
In the region of Batogu and Vllinu we
repulsed five weak enemy attempts to
assume the offensive.
"In Dobrudja the enemy continued to i
attack our troops, who withdrew
toward Isakishe."
British Victory Over Turks.
LONDON, December 25, 3 p.m.?Following
up their victory against the
Turks in the capture of El Arish.
ninety miles east of the Suez canal,
the British forces in Egypt have captured
a strong Turkish position at
Maghdadah, twenty miles to the southeast
of El Arish, taking some 1,100
prisoners, two guns and quantities of
war material, the war office announced
today.
TRIED BY COURTS-MARTIAL.
Navy Officers Arraigned. Two of
Whom Are Acquitted.
The Navy Department has announced
the result of several court-martial
cases as follows:
Lieut. Commander Clarence S.
Kempff, tried at the Boston yard on
charges growing out of the collision
between the Jupiter and the Italian
bark Doris, was acquitted, and the verdict
was approved by the department.
Assistant Paymaster James P. Jackson.
tried for inefficiency and neglect
of duty, found guilty, and reduced six
numbers in his grade.
Passed Assistant Surgeon Charles P.
Lynch, charged with absence from his
station and duty, found guilty and
placed at the foot of the list of officers
of his grade until he shall have lost
five numbers.
Lieut, (junior grade) Anson A. Merrick.
guilty of absence from duty without
leave and sentenced to be reduced
twenty numbers.
Lieut, (junior grade) Daniel S. McQuarrie,
guilty of drunkenness and
sentenced to lose thirty numbers.
Lieut, (junior grade) William S.
Nicholas, charged with improperly
hazarding the Terry, acquitted. .
Quiet on Western Front.
BEKL1K, December 25, by wireless to
Sayville.?-Last night wa^ generally
calm on the Franco-Belgian front, army
headquarters announced today.
i
SANTA'S SLIPS.
^ ^ ^ ^ A lA | IffiAfaA
W.UZ IS Nttlltll
FOR OPPORTUNITIES
Six of the Fourteen Are Closed.
Some Being Oversubscribed.
MONEY STILL COMING IN
Washington, in the gladness of the
Yuletide. again has responded generously
to the appeal made by the Associated
Charities in behalf of needy
families.
Of fourteen opportunities to aid as
many families during the year, for
which $5,794 is required, contributions
received by the Associated Charities up
to noon today totaled $4,931.98, or
$883.02 less than the amount.asked for.
It is believed that the deficit will be
made up by subscriptions to be received
later.
Cast Christmas morning the amount
that had been turned in by noon was
$5,098. but included in this was one
cnecK lor $i.uuu. m ji*- lurgest wmgie
donation this year was $500. Total
subscriptions last year approximated
$6,000. Nearly $1,000 was contributed
after Christmas.
Some Are Oversubscribed.
Six opportunities have been met entirely,
some of them oversubscribed.
These are opportunities numbered 2 to 7,
inclusive. Deficits in the eight others
are in the following amounts: No. 1,
$136.42; 8. $58.15; 0, S63; 10. $209.70;
11. $128.90; 12. $87; 13. $202.05, and
14. $106.33.
The deficit for the eight unfilled Opportunities
is $991.55, but overpledged
amounts on the six other opportunities
reduces the total deficit to $883.02.
Walter S. Cfford, secretary of the Associated
Charities, and Mrs. Cfford
spent the entire morning at the charities
headquarters, 923 11 street, listing
the donations that came in overnight.
Many persons called at the
headquarters during the morning and
left contributions ranging from $1 to $10.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Cfford were gratified
by the total showing to date and predicted
that the entire amount needed would be
contributed within a few days.
Received by The Star.
Additional contributions received by
The Star are as follows:
Previously acknowledged $1,057.62
M. W. <3.. No. 6 1.00
M. C. C., No. 6 .50
L. E. H., ryost needy i.00
Kicnara uiney, -u. niosi neeuy . k?.wm
Mrs. Hessie J. Mitchell, $1 each
open opportunity, balance to
most needy 12.00
John Henry Williams 1.00
G. H. E., most needy 2.00
C. W. S.. No. 6 1.00
Well Wisher, most needy 1.00
A. C. B.. No. 13 2.00
Cash. No. 9 1.00
Billy. No. 1 1.00
Lilian MoColin, most needy.... 12.50
Virginia, most needy . 1.00
Fritz Christiani. most needy.*. > l.ou
W. P. and C. M. V. N.. most
needy ' 10.00
H. C. G-. No. 6 1.00
H. H. McC.. most needy 1.00
Cash, No. 1 1.00
C. It. C.. most needy 2.00
M. E. L., No. 6 10.00
E. T. P., No. 12 2.50
$1,133.12
Opportunity No. X?Bringing the Chll?
dren Home.?Two years agp, when her
husband died, leaving her without visible
means of support. Mrs. Y. made a
little home for her two girls and left
the boys in an orphan asylum. Now
they are back home. One girl is working
and the mother is trying to establish
herself in ner old trade. To make
this experiment in homemaking a success
$12 a week, or $624 for the year,
is needed.
Previously acknowledged. $317.38; Jr
J. P.. $3; E. W. N., $2; P. P. S.. $2; T.
W. K., $1; Star composing room eraT
(Continued on Seuond Pagc X *
r^ V2 ^ ' NXXXM
FOUR WEKS' BATTLING:
GAINS ARE MINOR ONES
!
German Analysis of Russian Offensive
in the Wooded Carpathians.
BERI,IN. December 25, via wireless
to Sayville, X. Y.?Only minor advantages
in the Oituz valley have been
(gained by the Russians in their four
weeks' offensive in the wooded Carpathians
and along the Transylvania
eastern* frontier, and these have been
counterbalanced by local successes
elsewhere bv the Austro-German
forces, writes the military critic of the
Overseas News Agency,
"The, armies of Gens, von Arz and
von Ivoesess," he continues, "are maintaining
their positions .on the pass
height, which they took during the
great thrust in October, while on Gen.
von Goerke's front in the mid-Carpathian
angle the situation has changed
favorably to the central powers in consequence
of the advance in eastern
Wallachia.
Intrenched in Mountains.
I 1 I I V- ??,< 1H.I \_- IO Ul?-jyv?7tvi Jil ill"
trenched positions in impracticable
mountains broken by the transverse
valleys, and in attempting to hoft off
the pressure of the Austro-German
forces.
"From this point the front turns eastward
and runs along the Slanio valley
in an almost direct east and west direction
south of Rimnik Sarat, where if
is continued by the new Rumanian defensive
position on the Rimnik. SaratFilipes'-u
- Ceacarul line. This line
through eastern Wallachia is about
seventy kilometers in length and is
| prolonged by the Dobrudja position,
j Their positions in the plain offer the
J Russo-Rumanian armies only limited
| security for their southern front restling
on the Danube and the Black sea."
Usual Trench Warfare.
i
The writer alludes to th.e fighting on
| the western front during the last fewdays
as nothing more than the usual
trench warfare, noting the cessation of
important operations in the Verdun j
region and a continuation of the calm
on the Somme front.
"The situation of the combatants on
the third war < "hri. t mas." he concludes,
"does not differ from that of one and
two years ago. the relation of the
forces remaining identical, even though
I the means of warfare have been increased
in gigantic fashion."
RUMANIAN KING CONFIDENT.
i j
! Says Conduct of Army Justifies j
Serenity as to Future.
; liO.VIXJN, December 25.?A Router's
; dispatch from Jassy, dated December
i 22. says that the Rumanian parliament
was opened there on that da? by King
Ferdinand. The dispatch says that the
kins, in a speech from the throne, said
! that the war had shown that Austria.
Hungary in her present condition could
: no longer exist as a factor in the equilibrium
of Europe.
The king said that the Rumanian
army had struggled against the forces
: of four combined enemies in a manner
justifying Rumania looking to the fu;
ture with absolute confidence. Ac;
cording to the dispatch, the king was
i given an enthusiastic reception by the
j senators and deputies.
Newspapers Advance Price.
! OWENSBORO, Ky., December 25.?
Subscription rates of the Owensboro
Messenger and Owensboro .Inquirer,
morning and afternoon newspapers, respectively,
will be increased, their publishers
have announced. Increase in
price of subscription is due to advanced
I cost of'newsprint paper.
1 WHEELING, W. Va., December 25.?
The Wheeling Daily News today announced
Its subscription rates will be
advanced from 10 cants to 13 cents a
vmek January 1. . . __
HOUSE REPUBLICANS
! WILL ACI AS UNIT
To Vote Solidly for Either Mann
or Lenroot as Speaker if
They Have Majority.
BOTH MAINTAIN RETICENCE
! If the republicans of tlie next House
I have a majority they will either vote
solidly for Representative Mann as
Speaker or they will vote solidly for
Representative Lenroot, according to the
views of several House politicians today.
a ma nitti uc l uusiucicu <111 - ,
view of the situation, and democrats are j
of the opinion that Representative Garrf- j
ner's unexpected announcement in favor ;
I of Representative Lenroot, as published
[ in The Star Yesterday, has- split the
j party so that the next House cannot
; possibly be republican. One of the chief j
j troubles the republicans will have in lin- i
, ing up their strength solidly for Mr. j
I Mann consists of at least two far western
republicans who are former progressives.
They may not "stand
hitched" for Mr. Mann and have said
they would not enter a caucus to be bound
to vote for Mr. Manu or any one else.
However, they would be willing to enter
a conference 011 the subject, if left free
j to vote as they saw fit.
On the other band, friends of Mr. J
Mann today say that Representative j
Gardner's violent outburst, injecting in- '
ternational policies into the internal I
House of Representatives affairs, will ,
not detract a vote front Mr. Mann nor,
add a vote to Mr. Lenroot. unless it be 1
1 the vote of Representative Gardner I
himself.
Mr. Mann Makes No Comment.
Representative Mann. republican
leader of the House, refused today to
comment in any way upon the" statement
given out by Mr. Gardner to the
effect that he intended to support Representative
Lenroot of Wisconsin for
.Speaker when the House organizes in
the next Congress.
"I have nothing to say," was Mr.1
Mann's reply to a request to make a
1 reply to Mr. Gardner's statement in
j which the latter asserted that Mr.
j Mann's approval of the President's
1 peace note was distinctly pro-German
I and that he, Mr. Gardner, could no longj
er follow such leadership. Mr. Mann
1 intimated, however, that he might have
I something to say later.
| The other principal in the triangular
[affair, Mr. L.enroot, was almost as retijoent
as Mr. Mann. He has been menj
tioned a number of times before as a
candidate for Speaker by some of the
j progressive members on the republican
(side. Mr. j^enroot said that Mr. Gardj
ner's statement had come as a complete
surprise to him.
"Mr. Gardner said nothing to me about
the matter before making his statement,"
said Mr. JLenroot: He added That
he did not care to comment upon it.
"Will you be a candidate for Speak (er?"
Mr. Lenroot was asked.
"I would rather not answer that
j question," replied Mr. Lenrooi. ' Xo
matter what I said, a wronfc construe-*
I tion might be placed upon the answer."
No Further'Explanation.
J Mr. Lenroot did not explain further,
j but it was inferred that if he replied
| that he would be a candidate for Speaki
er. it might be construed that he took
| the same stand as Mr. Gardner ir> re!
gard to the President's peace note and
| his opposition to Mr. Mann. If he reI
plied that he would not be a candidate
| for Speaker, then he would bo at off
j from receiving the support of the proi
gressives in the body who have favored
! him no matter what circumstances
might arise in the future which would
| lead him to he a candidate.*
Representative Gardner, who returned
to Washington yesterday evening, however.
was perfectly willing to discuss
his statement, which he said explained
his attitude as clearly as he could
put it.
"1 had intended to support Mr. Mann,"
(said Mr. Gardner, "because of his active j
I work in the House, but I am wholly i
i unwilling to follow any longer the
| lead of a man who stands for Prussia
[ and Prussianism as he does. 1 did not
! consult any other members of the
| House, however, before issuing my
i statement, and it expresses my senti|
irrents alone. But if I am the only rej
publican in the House to oppose Mr.
Mann I will cast my vote against mm ?
and for Mr. Lenroot.
"I consider Mr. Lenroot in every way I
qualified to make a capable Speaker!
of the House."
In reply to a question as to whether he
intended to campaign for Mr. Lenroot's
nomination and election as Speaker. Mr. j
Gardner said that would depend upon cir-. |
cumstances. Later he said that he thought;
j the republicans should get together for a j
conference fin "principles." but that per-!
sonalities should be eliminated.
I " I
Mr. Mann's Friends Not Beticent.
While Mr. Mann would not comment at '
all upon Mr. Gardner's statement, his |
frjends were not so reticent. They said j
in the first place that they did not believe J
i Mr. Gardner could influence a "single j
vote on the republican side of the chami
her outside of his own." What is more. I
! they pointed out that the election of a ]
Speaker probably will not take place until
next December and that the war may he j
over at that time. Representative Mann's j
advocacy or me i ref iaenis rune may i
have been entirely forgotten by that time!
and Mr. Gardner himself may vote for
Mr. Mann when it comes to show down
if he is the choice of the republican caucus
for Speaker, as they confidently pre- !
dieted he would be.
That the republicans must get to- j
gether if they are to organize the
House is undisputed. If they have
enough votes to organize the House a
small number of insurgents could up- i
set the whole thing, which would be J
playing into the hands of the demo- !
crats and would lose to the republicans
all the patronage which goes with the
organization of the House. This is just
what the republican members of the
House do . not wish to lose, and the
prediction was made that every- effort
would be made to get the republicans
together.
The democrats naturally were pleased
with the statement of Mr. Gardner. ;
They saw in it victory for themselves, j
POPE PLEADS FOK PEACE.
His Holiness Makes Application of
Christmas Theme.
HOME, via Paris, December 25.?
Pope Benedict made a plea for peace
in his address at the Christmas recep- ,
tion to the Sacred College. Referring.i
to the message of Bethlehem, the Pope ?
said that "good will amongst men was j
the essential condition toward obtain- i
ing that just and durable peace which i
must put an end to the horrors of the I
present war." The Pope urged those <
in power to hear the voice of the
Sacred College appealing to them to 1
arrest the destruction of the peoples 1
and to open their ears to the adrnoni- '
tion "of the father of the Christian (
family seeking to ?pave the way to 1
justice and peace." j
COMMENT ON NOTE
TOLERANT IN PART
Russian Officials and Newspapers
Politely Reject President's
Peace Suggestion.
NOT THE TIME TO STOP WAR
By tlio Associated Pro*.
PKTROGRAP, December 2 4. vi.i London.
December 2.V?President Wilson s
note has called forth from the Russian
press and from the. nation itself. as
far as can be judged from its effort in
official and political circles in Petrograd.
a* torrent of criticism, partly tolerant
and partly sharply adverse, hot
for the most part maintaining a toneof
polite, amiable rejection.
The Associated Press has been informed
*that the Russian government
received the note in the spirit * of
friendliness in which it was offered,
but while appreciating the hurnanitar
ian motives which r rompted it. will
find it impossible :wt preseqt to suggest
any terms which could guarantee a.
durable peace.
All the newspapers continent on what
is termed the inopportune moment
j chosen for peace mediation and express
regret that the favorable impression
caused b\ the American government's
refusal to make revommenjdations
in connection with Germany's
proposal should now be effaced by proposals
of its own. The Retch says
President Wilson would better have
been guided by the negative attitude
which he observed in transmitting the
offer.
"Too Early" for Such Counsel.
"It is too early to give such counsel."
says the Retch. "At such time counsel
can be more harmful than useful.
He supposes both sides are following
more or less the same objects. What
can the people and governments of the
allies reply after having definitely refused
Germany's offer? Does President
Wilson think the offer has been refused
simply on account of a lack of concrete
terms, and. that if he fills this
lack we can consider. peace negotiations?
There is no necessity to await
terms which we know beforehand t.?
be unacceptable. If President Wilson
does not understand that tto offers can
be mutually acceptable to the allies
and their enemies, we. at least, understand
it."
Prominent members of' the duma and
all the political leaders from whom an
expression of opinion could be obtained
concerning the note were united in the
conviction that the American peace
suggestions were ill-timed and impracticable.
Makes an "Odd Impression."
Prof. Paul X. Milukoff. leader of the
constitutional democrats, said:
President Wilson's offer makes an
r.A,i imni-oMinn The President said at
the time -the liennan proposal was presented
thmt he would consider cojnment
harmful and that the United Statu
would take part in peace mediation
only if it received a .definite offer or
a hint from the allies that they would
find American interference acceptable.
Quite the opposite is the case. The
allies definitely rejected Germany's proposals.
in such a case it seems that
President Wilson's offer of assistance
i is futile. The note can only make a
negative impression.
"The lack of definite terms was not
the only obstacle to the allies' consideration
of Germany's proposal. We
can guess what the central powers will
offer, hod if fher offered much more
than .was expected, even- then the time
would not be ripe for niediatipn."
M. Rodzianko's Attitude.
i M. Rodziankd. president of the duma,
;said: "My attitude .toward the note is
negative. It is not time for us or our
j allies to conclude peace. There would
not be* peace for any length of time,
j and then the' war. would have been
j fought in vain. The reniy to President
j Wilson's note must be the same as that
to the proposal of the central powers." .
I Opinions expressed by various other
I members of the duma were in sirnifar
! vein.
Bourse Gazette's Comment.
The Bourse Gazette recognizes that
humanitarian motives are prompting
the government of the United States,
but says that the time for a peace
proposal is most inopportune, since
Germany has already, it claims, sent
her last available reserves into the
field, while the allies are just beginning
to mobilize their full resources
and take advantage of their increased
power.
"One can l?e sure." says the Gazette,
"that to conclude peace under the present
unfavorable conditions wou'd be to
keep* the world in a fever of militarism
and destroy the dream of disarmament
entertained 'by the European
nations. The sympathy which the
allies have gained across the sea gives
us reason to believe Uiat America will
trust their declarations and their decision
to continue the war. If refusing^
his offer," President Wilson ?-ani:ot say*
that American assistance is rejected
wholly and forever. In the not distant,
future we shall he able to avail ourselves
of the initiative of the finespirited
President, but under conditions
more favorable To us and the growth
of a stable European peace."
Arraigns the United States.
The Novoe Vremya., hinting that President
Wilson's offer was due to German
influence; severely arraigns the
United States government for what It
terms its unwarranted interference in
the war. the principles of which, the
paper says, it thoroughly misunderstands.
"The pressure of German influence."
says this paper, "on the United States
government, which has been noticeable
Since me DeginnniK "i Uic w?xi, lias ??=come
so great that America can no
longer remain inactive. The Washington
government has shown that it regards
the British holding up of contraband
as seriously as the German
sinking of passenger ships and the loss
of American lives. The same* tendency
is apparent in President Wilson's note.
It would seem to be a question now of
deciding which side has violated the
rights of the United States most seriously,
but Secretary Lansing is not so
much concerned with the violation of
American rights as over the question
which party has most justice in aim.
He may still decide to join the side of
the'German pirates.
"The American government has the
record of the events of the war and
German aims are again repeated in tha
recent proposal from Berlin. After all
this President Wilson declares that he
does not know anything about the objects-of
the fighting powers. He ex-,
presses the hope that the aims of the
ivarring countries can be reconciled,
ind believes that they will be if the
belligerents will only write to one another
and tell why the war began."
LONDON, December 25.?David ,H.
Francis, the American ambassador at
Petrograd. Saturday handed President
Wilson's note to the belligerent powers
to the Kussian minister of foreign affairs,
sa^s a Heuter's dispatch from
Petrograd. ^
