lo rth
THIRTY-FIRST YEAR.
NORTH PLATTE, NEB., MARCH 24, 1916.
No. 20
APPOINT COJUHTTEKS l'OH
ANNUA Ii MAY I'AHTY
At a meeting of Division 88, Broth
erhood of Locomotive Engineer?, com
mittees for the Thirty-fourth Annuul
May Party were appointor!. James F.
Koihly Is chairman of the arrange
ment committee anil associated with
him are Sebastian SchwaigQ H. A.
Lawhend, Wm. Welch an 1 fleorge
Trexler, a bunch of live wires who
wil make it a point to have the thirty
fourth party the equal of the many
given.
The date of the May Parly wll be
Monday ecning, May 1st, and thi an
iuunccuiput of tins late will cause
laii rs W1.0 will attend to lii:n plan
lung their party dress-.s (or the May
Party, coming as it does at the open
ing of the spring season, Is a social
function that can be described as
"Classy,, a more dressy affair than
any other given.
The committee will see that every
attendant, whether dancer of specta
tor, will have an evening replete with
enjoyment.
Takes Bonds to Lincoln
City Clerk Elder went to Lincoln last
night for the purpose of delivering to
the state treasurer the $12,000 park
bonds. These bonds were awarded on
bid to a Chicago Arm, but for some
reason the firm failed to 001110 through
with the money. The bonds wjro then
offered to the state treasurer and ho
agreed to take them at about the same
premium offered by the Chicago llrm,
and requested that they be delivered
to him today.
: :o: :
The West-Central Nebraska Teach
ers' Association will meet In North
Platte, April G, 7 and 8. When this as
sociation has been held In other towns,
the townspeople have opened their
homes to the visiting teachers and
made them feel very welcome. The
committee in charge ask the people of
North Platte to do the sam;. In a few
days a canvass o the town will be
made. If you can make room in your
home for any of the visiting teachers
it will be greatly appreciated by the
ladies in charge.
..AVe Intro recently Installed 11 third
phone in our grocery department. Ifj
satisfaction can be Judged by the grovr
Inu volume of our business, WE MUSTl
HE GIVING THAT SATISFACTION.!
Try us first it pays. E. T. Tit AMP &!
SONS, Phone 147. 20-2
Christian Science service Sunday 11
if. m. Sunday school 12 ni. Wednes
day evening meetings every week at
S:00. Building & Loan building, room
25. A cordial invitation is extended
to all.
White blosson sweet clover clean
ings $4.00 a sack of about 150 pounds
in cnnl' Olmn QO II T. llnnnltiiv-
.V lllb DUt.ll, 4. t.U.ll fC ... A -J. I , ,1 , ... 1
ton, 500 east Front. 20-2
Henry W. Savage's famous Broad- j
way success, "Excuse Me," will bo the
feature attraction at the Keith to
night. This comedy when shown on'
the stage caused much merriment and
doubtless will do so In pictures.
Lost Between North Platte and Big-
nell last Monday, a whistle off an auto.
Return to this office and receive reward.
CITY Ayi) COUNTY NEWS.
You can't afford to economize In eye
care beyond the point of safety. You
may get spectacles for 10 cents--and
save what you would pay toe the right
kind, but time will prove It falsi econ
omy. CLINTON, Ileglster-id Optician,
the sign of the big ring.
The ladles' auxiliary of the B. of K.
T. held an enjoyable entertainment and
box supper at tho K. P. hall Saturday
evening. A program of music and
readings was given, and among thoso
taking part were Misses Bonnie Alur
dock, Adele LoDloyt, Emma Brgue,
Mrs. W S. Leon and Mrs. Frank
Laughlln.
We liavo seed oats, seed corn, alfal
fa, sweet clover and millet seed that
is priced right. Call and see us. 500
east Front street. Phone 9!) Black
IJ8S.
20-4 H. L. PENNINGTON.
Italph Allison, formerly clerk In the
U. S. land office, who was transferred
to Douglas, Wyo., has been promoted
to a clerkship in the surveyor general's
office at Cheyenne, and will report for
duty there April 1st. Friends in town
will be pleased to learn of his ad
vancement. Major Geo. A. Austin, who lias or
ganized a company for se-vio? In Mex
ico, said this morning that ho hour
ly expected n message ordering the
Austin Anteatcrs to report at El Paso.
In anticipation of quick marching or
ders Lieutenant Fillion sleeps in his
uniform.
A meeting of the stockholder of ihe
Farmers' Life Insura'nea Co. wad IvA-l
Wednesday afternoon in the Chamber
of Commerce rooms. There vere
present forty members from dlf-i
ferent uarts of tlin stntq. Fv -L'nvnrnnr
Amnions, of Colorado, was the prlncl-i
pai speaKer 01 uie attennon and spoke
on subjects relative to H1I3 company.
The city council passed an ordinance
Tuesday evening providing for the lav
ing of lead service pipes in the paving
district. Lead Is more enduring than
cast Iron, and in designating lead the
council hopes to largely do away with
tearing up the paving to repluee ser
vice pipes in Uie future,- If sqrv'ca
pipes are laid after paving is complet
ed, a deposit of $25 to cove.' the cost
of tearing up the paving mu3t be de
poshed. Leroy Mecomber filed suit for di
vorce against Grace Mecomber in the
district Saturday charging desertion.
The plaintiff states that they were
married in Cheyenne April 23rd, 1007
and four months later moved to this
city. Later, on February 20th, 1911,
he claims that while residing in Grand
Island, she wilfully deserted him and
her wherabouts are not known. Ono
child born February 17th, 1908, is now
with the 1 mother Who refuses to live
with the plaintiff and he asks, through
his attorney. Leslie Baskins, to be
released from the marriage bond.
-::o::-
To Louts!
..Wooing time is here. Seal your vows
with one of our blue white diamonds, so
appropriate for the occasion..
DIXON, The Jeweler.
HEI2SHEY MAKES MOVE
FOR A SIM A It FACTOIIY
About a hundred representative beet
growers from up and down the valley
held a meoting at the O'Fallons school
house Monday evening to discuss the
matter of the American Beet Sugar
to. reducing tlieir contracts in thi?
territory. The company has contract
ed about 3,000 acres in this territory
and now are endeavoring to reduce
this amount 000 acres. Some of the
larger contracts have been reduced
as much as forty per cent, whtla
majority of tho cmallcr contracts huv;
not been reduced at all.
Henry Fulk was elected chairman
of the meeting, A. J. Samuolson, ec-
retary and Leonard Laubncr. treasur
er. After considerable discussion tho
decision of those present was to ask
A. j. Denmnn, mnnager of tho Grand
Island fnctory, to give a reason for tho
reduction and as soon as this is forth
coming another meeting will be bald.
mo proposition of building a fnc
tory in this territory was then brought
up for discussion. W. H. Jenkins,
Go. Cary, A. J. Johnson, Geo. Mudd,
Earl Hamilton and Guy Coleman made
nthuslas.t!e talks for a factory lioro.
On this matter tho contiment of the
meeting was strong and entirely iinnn
imous. An organization was then per
fected which will be known ns the
"Beet Growers' Association" with tho
following as officers: Henry Fulk,
president; Clins. White, secretary;
Leonard Laubner, treasurer. Tho
chairman was directed to appoint a
committee of 25 in tho territory from
usiiKosii to Noith Platte. The terri
ory is to be divided into units nnd two
representatives will be appointed from
each unit. This committee will get to
gether nnd proceed toward Interesting
capital in locating a factory here.
neraney Times.
: :o: :
Sutton Talks on Prohibition
Judge A. L. Sutton, for eleven years
district Judge in the Omaha district,
and now the candidate for the dry re
publican forces for tho nomination for
governor, spent yesterday In town and
In the evening made an address on the
prohibition question. The Judge spoke
from Uie view of an onlooker, his re
marks were non-political and ho did
not mention bis candidacy. He dis
cussed tho question from all angles
and touched on the situation in North
Platte.
Preceding the Judge's address a
male quartette rendered selections
and a short talk was given by Mr. Mc
Comb, and following talks were niado
by Messrs. Beeler, "Watklns, Buchanan,
Van Cleave, Oberst and others.
The ladies of four churches combined
and served a nice lunch. About 200
were present.
::o::
When you want u'golnbles that are
FltESH, prone 11". Your orders will
receive careful attention mid speedy
deliver). E. T. Tit AMP k SONS. 20-1
Miss Chorleen Grace, of Cheyenne,
came last evening to visit her aunt
Mrs. W. L. Richards, while enroute
home from Kearney.
Our selection of $3.00 Hats for Sat
urday. March 25th, are of tho new
ideas in millinery McVicker Milli
nery. The Leader.
SALE
OF USED
AUTOMOBILES.
One Model 29 Brack New in 1912, Price $450.
This Car is a 5 passenger touring type, has a new radiator, good top, side curtains,
wind shield, paint in good shape, all good tires, 5 in all, wheels of the demountable rim type.
This car is surely a bargain: and has been thoroughly overhauled, and will make some one a
good serviceable ear.
One Brick lode! 30 New in 1913, Price $350,00,
This Car is a 2 passenger Roadster type, has been thoroughly overhauld, has good top.
paint good, has 5 good tires, wheels of demountable rim type, a car that is good for lots of
work, strong and will stand the knocks.
Ksssell New in 1912, Price $450.00.
This Car when new was priced at 2800.00 has been overhauled is a 5 passenger style,
good strong serviceable ear, has more power that any one will over need, has all new tires.
Windshield, Top. and in fact is fully equipped, a bargain for some one.
One Maxwell New in 1915, Price $450.00.
This Car is 5 passenger style, all overhauled, has 5 tires top and side curtain, set of seal
covers just put on, this car has Self Starter and electric Lights, paint in good condition. This
car has been formally in excellent hands and has been well cared for and should lie taken b
some one.
One Marion New in 1911, - - - - Price $350.00.
This Car has been over hauled and repainted, a new top and side curtains, new car
buretor, in fact is in good condition for lots of work, a good strong serviceable buy for some
one.
To the person that needs a car and does not feel that they cannot buy a. new car, here is
a list of cars that you should investigate before they arc gone, as the condition, and priac of
these cars will soon take them, so to get in on one of these do not wait.
J. S. Davis Auto Co.
Couch Cover Special
-FOR
Friday and Saturday
Lot 1 Good weight Couch Covers 60 inches wide in nice patterns value Cft 1 yf
you will not see again at the price each P TrO
Lot 2 Medium heavy Weight Couch Covers an extra good quality good i TfcO
quality, good patterns each p JL
Lot 3 Heavy quality Couch Covers that will please particular tastes and dt QyfO
give extra good wear each S,0
Lot d Extra heavy Covers in nice patterns each
Under present conditions of the market these prices arc something you should takeadvantagc
of. Remember Friday and Saturday only.
WILCOX DEPARTMENT STORE.
LOCAL AND PERSONAL.
Home cooked food on sale at Derry-
berry & Forbes' Saturday by the Epis
copal guild.
Mrs. York llinmun and son Junior
left yesterday afternoon for Gothen
burg to attend the M. C. conference.
The bible class of District No. 1 will
meet with Mrs. S. & Overland. Ii0G
soutl. Ash street Tuesday afternoon.
John Gray left Tuesday night for
Omaha .and other eastern points to
spend a week with friends.
Miss Gertrude Nelson, of Gothen
burg, who was the gum of Miss Hazel
Smith this week, left at noon yester
day.
Mr. and Mrs. A. Holxmcrk, of Goth
enburg, who were guests of local
friends this week, left : esterday after
noon.
Arrnnirpninnf s am lining nviiln fnr
tlin finminl Plintnhor nf (''-iiiiiiinrpn linii-
quet'whlch will be hold on the evening
oi April izui.
C. II. Walter durinir thu nasr. week!
lias bougiit ami suippeu out nine curs
of catlo and hogs. Tho lojal price on
bogs yesterday was $8.50.
Middy mouses for women, misses
and children from 50c rp. the-prettiest
stylos, are shown at The Lender.
Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Welsh and Mrs.
Sliotwell, of Gothenburg, returned
home yesterday afternooi alter spend
ing several days here.
Mrs. Lavina Thompson and Mr. and
Mrs. George Powell, of Itivonnn, ciiik'
few days ago to visit the former s
brother, I. E. Trout nnd family for
some time.
If it were not for artificial eye aid
the eyeglasses, tho spectacle, and tho
combinations of diflercnt lenses, sci-
ntbts and the world today would bo
laboring in darness. CLINTON, Iteg-
stcit'd Optician. The sitxn of the bbr
rinjr
Mrs. H. O. Ileaton entored the North
Piatto general hospital for treatment
yesterday.
Charley Reynolds loft last night for
Omaha, where he nyill transact busi
ness for a duy or, two.
The eight year old daughter pf Mr",
anil Mrs. Frank Marshall, ofiLeweJlon,
was brought to tho North Platta gen
eral hospital for treatment yeserday.
Clean your walls with Smoky City
Cleaner. Nyal Drug Store.
Braids and transformations niado
from combings. Hnir rooted and
cleaned. See my line of bralde. Only
combings or but hair handled, Airs.
Lena Hector Miller. Red Gil. 19-8
Just phono It. We deliver to all
parts of the city. Nyal Drug Store.
Gub Lnllmor, of Dickens was kicked
by a horse Saturday and sustained a
fractured ankle. His Injuries are be
ing treated at the Nurse llrown hosplt
nl, to which he wus taken.
A strungc giving his unpin as J.
llerbst, was arrested Wednesday for
resitting ll.c officers and canting a
disturbance on Dowey Btrect. lie wnn
ordered out of the city and l.f.. Hint
evening.
Tlie South African diamond mines
linve been shut down since ihi begin
ning of the great European war. Dia
monds will bo greatly advanced in
price. Wo have recently made a very
attractive purchase of lino Hlocl blue
diamonds that we are offering at un
usual prices. Sc our window display.
DIXON, The Jeweler.
For Sale: A new house. Applv at
1212 west Third street
Eye. defects "run in famiMc-a" and In
creaho through neglect. (Mrenta who
correct tholr own eyes nnd do not hesi
tate to put glasses on tlvlr children,
when needed, show common sniao am!
good judgment, and will ) ir-olr rt-i
ward in tho good oj-oh 'lOHsi-Ksrd bj
their children's children. HA'ttnvl
DIXON. Registered Optom" - r . , v, ri
aid" of Dewey street.
llrjnn Hero April 1st and 2ml.
Col. W. j Bryan will dollvor two ad
dresses In North Piatto, a political ad
dress Saturday evening, April 1st, and
a temperaco leijturo Sunday after
noon. Tho first will bo a democratic
rally that is, n rally of Dryunusquo
domc-crats at tho Lloyd opera houso,
which is oxpocted to bo a boost for
"Brother Charley" tor tho nomina
tion for governor. The temperance
lecture Sunday afternoon will bo de
livered at tho Presbyterla church. Mr'
Bryan will undoubtedly attract big
uudlences, for ns an orator ho is one
of tho country's greatest.
: :o: :
Cattle Bring: Good Prices
Claus Mylandor sold nnl delivered
to C. II. Walter this weok forty head
of black cattle for iwhich he received
eight cents per pound. Tho animals
Were cornred, nnd nverago.l twelve
hundred pounds euch, or niet-six
dollurs per head. They were a fine
bunch, one of the Ilncst that has been
shipped out of North Piatto for many
a day.
;:o::
The Girls' Domestic Science class of
tho Presbytorlnn church met in tho
church pr,riors Monday evening, be
ing entertained by Misses Marjorlo
RujSselL Bessie. Rannle and Esther
KeHly. Mro. Alex Fenwlck gave a
demonstration on peach colder. Those
receiving tho highest marks for mak
ing lonion plo were Mario lloagland,
Harriett Murrin, Alice Hongland; for
baking powder biscuits Harriett Mur
rin, Ellznboth Weir, Mnrjorlo Runsell.
Mr and Mrs. Fred Thompson left
yesterday morning for Omaha to attend
the Shrlners' banquet this evening.
'Oie I. O. O. F. lodge held a special
meoting last evening at which a num
ber of new members were taken into
tho memb'Tnlilp.
MB " JU. A J&f jmJk V JM.I JM. Mill 1
1 T
No. M
JEWELRY
We also have a line assortment of Diamond Rings,
Hroachcs, Diamond and Pearl Necklaces and many other
set articles. Lef us show you our new Spring Styles.
CLINTON, The Jeweler.
The sign with the Big Ring.
Telephone Your
Grocery orders to 32
, They will given prompt and
careful attention.
iLierk-Sandall Co.
NORTH PLATTE
..Genera! Hospital..
(Incorporated)
Phone 58 723 Locust Street
A modern institution for tin
cientific treatment of medical,
surgical und confinement cases.
Completely equipped X-Rny
and diagnostic laboratories.
Geo. B. Dent, M. D. V.Uucas, H. D.
J.B. Redfield, M. D. J.S.Simms, M.D.
Miss Elise Sieman, Supt.
1
