'Hi
What is Best for Maui
is Best for the News
If you wish Prosperity
Advertise in the News
VOLUME XXIII.
WAIUJKU, MAUI, T. II., FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1916.
NUMBER 5
M In 1
Raymond Willing To
Take Pali's Place
But Will Not Ask For It Denies
Politics Have Been Played In Pali
Case Points to Democratic Record
"If the Governor wants mc to
if ho asks me to accept the vacancy
on the board of supervisors, I shall
do It. Hut I have not, and will not
ask for the plaw, nor have I discussed
the matter with the Governor. And
the reason I am ready to accept, Is
because I believe I am warranted in
taking it, in that I was unfairly de
feated in the last election."
Dr. J. H. Raymond made this state
ment to the MAUI NEWS this after
noon, lie denied that there was any
thing political in the appointment of
Supervisor Philip Pali to the Lahaina
district magistracy. On the contrary
he maintains that Pall was recom
mended to the place after a careful
canvas had failed to show anyone so
well qualified.
Politics have not entered into the
appointments made by Governor Pink
ham, Dr. Raymond declares, and
points to long list of republicans,
appointed not only here on Maui but
all over the Territory. "It has been
efficiency first," said Raymond, in
referring to the Governor's policy in
this matter; and he further detlarcd
that Governor Pinkham has got into
plenty of trouble with his party be
cause of this very thing.
No Collusion With Pali.
"There has been no collusion with
Pali, no obligation exacted of him, in
the matter of his appointment, which
was purely in the interests of cflicien
cy," Dr. Raymond insisted, "And Pali
is a republican. I cannot remember
of single instance in which a democrat
was ever appointed a district magist
rate by a republican chief justice."
Could Play Politics.
"If the republicans think the ap
pointment of Pali was politics," Dr.
Raymond further stated, "And if they
really want things run on political
lines, I want you to say for me that I
am ready to urge upon the Governor
the appointment of any republican
they name to take Pali's place on the
board of supervisors, provided they
are also ready to have me urge the
removal of all republicans holding
office in the county and in Honolulu.
From a political standpoint, that
would be a perfectly legitimate pro
position." Foss Is Low Bidder
On Homestead Work
J. C. Foss, Jr., is the lowest bidder
for the construction of the homestead
road and bridge across East Kuiaha
gulch, tenders for which were opened
in Honolulu last Monday. The con
tract has not been awarded, pending
the closing of some details about the
right of way, but a wireless received
from Honolulu brings word that this
is expected to be accomplished within
a week.
The tenders were as follows:
J. C. Foss, Jr., grading, $5220, time
90 days; bridge, $4635, time 60 days;
both together, $8700, time 90 days.
J. A. Aheong, grading, $6840, time
90 days; bridge $3965, time 130 days;
both together, $12,550, time 200 days.
William Cullen, grading, $6250, time
100 days. No other tender.
Hugh Howell Engineering Co., grad
ing, $7265, time 75 days; bridge,
$4100, time 75 days; both together,
10,728, time 75 days.
TIERNAN CASE.
In the quiet marriage of Miss
Katherine Case, of the Maunaolu Se
minary staff, and Mr. John A. M.
Tiernan, which occured last Satur
day evening at the Church of the
Good Shepherd, Wailuku, the large
circle of friends of the young people
on Maul hud a pleasant surprise. The
niarriage ceremony was performed by
the church.
Miss Case has been resident of
Maui for 5 years or more, and popular
among a wide circle of acquaintances.
Mr. Tiernan is a comparatively new
comer, having come from Washington,
D. C, to take charge of the Maui Polo
Club's string of ponies. He is an ex
pert horseman and poloist, and has
the Rev. J. Charles Villiers, pastor of
already made many friends here.
INTERESTING COIN EXHIBIT
The First National Dank, of Wai
luku, has on exhibition an interesting
collection, of the special Panama-Pacific
Exposition commemorative coins.
It consists of two $50 gold pieces, one
$2.50, and one $1 gold piece, and one
50-cent silver piece. The coins, which
were issued in very limited number,
are beautiful specimens of minting.
Booze Responsible
For Hawaiian Death
Staggered in Front of Slow Moving
Machine of Circuit Clerk Schoen
bcrg Skull Crushed By Fall
Tl Wahalana, a well known Ha
waiian resident of Waihee, died at
the Malulani Hospital, Wailuku, on
Monday as a result of being struck
by an automobile driven by Victor C.
Schoenberg, clerk of the second circ
uit court, last Saturday afternoon.
The accident occurred on Market
street, near the fish market, and was
witnessed by a large number of per
sons. No blame attaches to Schoen
berg, who was driving very slowly at
the time, as is shown by the fact
that he stopped his machine within
about two feet, after striking the man.
Mr. Schoenberg was accompanied at.
the time by his sister-in-law, Mis.; Han
sen. Wahalana, who was intoxicated.
dodged from behind an automobile
standing at the makai curb, and direct
ly in the path of Schoenberg's car.
The left fender struck him on the hip,
but instead of throwing him forward,
as might have been expected, he fell
backwards, striking his head upon the
pavement. His skull was fractured by
the fall. Deputy Sheriff Ferreira and
Policeman Wilson, who happened to
be witnesses of the accident, ran and
picked the unfortunate man up. An
automobile wheel had passed over one
arm, but had not touched the body. A
bottle partly full of wine in the man's
pocket, had not been broken by his
fall. He was hurried to the hospital
but did not regain conseioii&ne.-.s. An
autopsy disclosed a profuse hemorr
hage in the brain, which was the
immediate cause of the death.
The deceased was about 45 years
of age. He was a laborer and was
not married. It is understood that
he was a native of Oahu, but he had
lwed on Maul for many years.
Jury Says Accident.
The roroner iurv. which sat at the
inquest on the case, on Wednesday
evening, heard the testimony ot a
dozen or more eye-witnesses to the
nreirtent. nnd rendered a verdict of
accidental death. The testimony of
all the witnesses was substantially
the same, and absolved Mr. Schoen
berg of blame. The jury was com
posed of: D. T. Carey, Amos Mozetta,
W. R. Boote, Recardo Silva, Manuel
Dutro, and Joe Hannan.
Saints And Waikapu
Tied In Big Series
Two More Games May Tell Talc
Interest Growing Keen Hall &
Son Offer Cup
The game last Sunday ended with
a boom when the Waikapus won
from the fast combination of Saints
by the score of 7 to 4.
The Saints, were first to score in
their half of the first inning, but Ka
lo of the Waikapus tightened up In
the second and handed them blanks
In the 3rd for the Waikapus catcher
was fairly hit and allowed two runs
for his opponents.
The Saints again got a lead of one
run by scoring two runs in this 3rd
inning and it worried the Waikapus a
little.
Both sides ended the 4th with
nothing to thlr credit, but the Wai
kapu team started trouble again when
Morwell sent two men home by a
safe grounder.
The 6th again found the Waikapus
with 3 more runs to the good, thus
having scored seven runs altogether.
The Saints managed to score one
run in this inning also but failed to
make up the lead.
E. O. Hall & Son of Honolulu, Las
presented a cup for this series.
Kalo and Kcehu are promising
young pitchers and their work on the
diamond is being very much appreciat
ed by their teammates and also by
the supporters of the respective
teams.
R. Cockett at first for the Waikapu3
is holding the initial sack down in
fine style and manager Edwards will
not ailow ,lUin to Ife replaced by
someone else.
Ging Cunnings, the tiny and fast
shortstop of the Saints is a hard man
to tackle at bat, and also his perform
ance at the difficult field position is
appreciated b y all.
. Thethlrd game will bo played next
Sunday at 2:00 P. M. and promises
to be a hot contest.
The innings follows:
Total
Waikapus 0 02023000 7
Saints 1 02001000 4
I'nipire.Geo. II. Cummings.
Sorer, E. Dal.
3rd Regiment, N.G.H.
Is Now Organized
Many Promotions and Appointments
Announced Companies Re
named Strong Organization
The organization of the 3rd Regi
ment, National Guard of Hawaii, has
now been completed. By general or
ders issued this week all the compan
ies of the Maui regiment have been
organized and officered. Lieulenant
Colonel II. A. Baldwin is now colonel
of the ifriment, and Malor D. C. Lind
say ha;? been promote! to be lieutcn
. rt coi. Lei.
' :it William H-ffmeu Y iuuk Oapt
U P. J rihallow, nt.( Capt F K. Jlald
win are now maj j:B of the three lnt
;ilion, and the to.iowing piomotions
'ire al.-o nnnouncau
I'irst Lieut. Win. '.Cani.tk nl nptain,
' : try r try.
First Lieut. Frr.nl: A. LuiUn, ap
Mil, 3rd infantry.
Second Lieut. Win. Mernt nn?ilr,ln
3rd infantry.
becond Lieut. George II. Cummings,
captain, 3rd infantry.
Second Lieut. Robert von Tempsky,
first lieutenant, 3rd infantry.
New Companies Formed.
Comrmnv CI. of Wnilnirn imo inr ai.
vided into two companies, designated
as company u anu Company C, both
wiin over oa men.
Company H. of Haiku has haA its
designation changed to Company L.
via company I, of Wailuku has had
its name changed to Company A.
ComPanV L. Of Lnlmfnn haa Keen
divided into two companies of over 65
men each, to be known an Com
and Company F.
A new company of over 65 has also
been organized at Wailuku, and is
Known ns company D.
Lahaina lms nlsn tTvori'rrA n v,,...
company, which has been designated
as Company G.
Puunene's two new
with over the required strength of 65,
have been named Company H andCom
pany I respectively
The four Wailuku companies, A, B,
C, and D, have been formed into the
1st Battalion: comnnnlpa V. v n omi
H, now form the 2nd Battalion;' ana
companies i, iv, li, ana M, form tho 3rd
Battalion.
The following named enlisted men
will bo honorably discharged by the
commanding ofllcer, 3rd Infnntry:
Qm. Set. Hookano Wniwnlnln fnm.
pany I, 3rd Infantry, to accept com
mission; iceg. urn. Sgt. G. N. Weight,
3rd Infantry, to accent rnnimiuclnn
Appointments Announced
ine following appointments in the
National Guard of Hawaii are an
nounced for the informs II
ance of all concerned:
Arthur C. Betts. cantain. 2rrf TnC.m.
try.
Manuel G. Paschoal, first lieutenant,
3rd Infantry.
John Makahio, first lieutenant, 3rd
Infantry.
Geo. N. Weight, first lieutenant,
3rd Infantry.
Antinino Garcia, first li nlitnnnnt
3rd Infantry.
F. T. Mookini, first lieutenant, 3rd
Infantry.
J. H. Kunewa, first lieutenant, 3rd
Infantry.
Wm. K. Scholtz, first lieutenant,3rd
Infantry.
Hookano Waiwaiole, second lieuten
ant, 3rd Infantry.
Seabury T. Short, second lieutenant,
3rd Infantry.
Moses Kauhimahu, second lieuten
ant, 3rd Infantry.
John E. Gannon, second lieutenant,
3rd Infantry.
Eugene Haneberg, second lieuten
ant, 3rd Infantry.
Wm. B. Keanu, second lieutenant,
3rd Infantry.
John Vasconcellos, second lieuten
ant,3rd Infantry,
Ralph B. Walker, second lieutenant,
3rd Infantry.
IN HONOR OF A VISITOR.
Mr. and Mrs. Worth Aiken enter
tained very pleasantly with a small
dinner party, on Tuesday evening, the
occasion being the brief visit to Maui
of Dr. Francis A. Lyman, of Waimea,
Kauai. Those present were Mr. and
Mrs. II. V, Sloggett, Mr. and Mrs. W.
S. Nicoll, and Mr. and Mrs. F. W.
Hardy, besides the guest of honor and
the host and hostess. Dr. Lyman is a
cousin of Mrs. Aiken and of Mrs. Slog
gett. and a brother of Mrs. William
McClusky, of Maui, and this was his
first visit to this island for many
years. He departed on Wednesday
evening for Hilo to visit his father.
Judge F. S. Lyman, of that place.
BIG RANCH SALE AUTHORIZED.
Judge Kdings yesterday afternoon
approved the application of W. T.
Robinson, trustee of the estate of
John Ferreira, deceased, to sell cer
tain real estate in the Makawao
district. The property in question is
ranch land, aud an upset price of
$-lo,uu0 was stipulated by the court.
The bond of the trustee was fixed at
$45,000.
Edmund Hart Gets
A Stiff Sentence
Taken to Honolulu Prison This Week
W. G. Scott's Assailants Convict
edJury Pau With Criminal Cases
Edmund II. Hart, who pleaded
guilty last Friday to having embez
zled $5336.80 of county funds, while
clerk of the second circuit court, was
sentenced by Judge Edings, on Satur
day morning to serve not less than 4
nor more than 10 years in the peni
tentiary, at hard labor, and to pay the
costs of the prosecution. Hart made
no statement in his own behalf. He
was taken to Honolulu on Monday
evening, in charge of Police officer J.
R. Coelho, together with several other
convicts, to begin his sentence.
Okamoto, a Japanese charged with
having committed an assault with a
knife upon another Japanese, as a re
sult of a gambling dispute, and who
nearly sueeeeded in killing his man,
pleaded guilty and was sentenced to
serve not less than 18 months nor
more than 5 years, and to pay the
costs in the case.
Akana Lum Ko, who forged a check
for $5 with the name of Mrs. C. D.
Lufkin, and who pleaded guilty, was
sentenced to not less than 1 nor more
than 5 years, and fined $50 and costs.
Victorino Sebaluino pleaded guilty
to assault with a weapon on another
Filipino, and was sentenced by Judge
Edings to serve not less than IS
months nor more than 5 years, and
pay costs.
Teofilo Ledisma, the Filipino who a
few weeks ago stole $150 from a Hana
Chinese, pleaded guilty, but declined
to say what had become of the
money. He confided to the police that
he expected to serve a sentence
whether he turned over the cash or
not. Judge Edings imposed a sen
tence of not less than 2 nor more than
20 years, during during which time he
may change his mind about disclosing
the hiding place of his booty.
Ah Fook, was found not guilty by
the jury, of having had sexual Inter
course with a female under 15 years.
The case was tried on Monday, Enos
Vincent appearing as attorney for the
defendant.
Charles Delgado, on a like charge,
was found guilty by n jury and will
probably be sentenced tomorrow. He
was defended by Enos Vincent, as
attorney.
Sakai Takasama, who was charged
with having altered the data on
certain cane tickets, thereby committ
ing forgery, was found guilty. At
torney Eugene Murphy for the defend
ant. Sam Likana, William Kaainioku,
John Lincoln, and William iona, the
four Bailors who badly beat up W. G.
Scott, the Kahului saloon man, last
(continued on page 5)
High School Tea Was
Delightful Success
The pupils of the Maui High School
gave an entertainment and Tea at the
Community House, Paia last Satur
day afternoon. The hall was very tast-
fully decorated with shamrock and
Irish flags in honor of St. Patrick's
Day.
The program consisted of musical
numbers by the High School orchestra
and Glee Club, and a farce given by
members of the freshman class. The
entire program was well rendered
and was greatly enjoyed by those pre
sent. During the entertainment re
freshments, consisting of tea, ice
cream and cake, and candy were
served. There was a good attend
ance and nearly $70.00 was realized.
In the evening an impromptu dance
was given.
The closing exercises of the term
will be held at the Maui High School,
Hamakuapoko, on Friday, Mar. 31 at
1:00 o'clock. As a part of the pro
gram the essays, which recently won
prizes in the contest conducted by the
Sons of the American Revolution,
will be read.
PAIA DEFEATS PUUNENE
AT AUCTION BRIDGE.
The Paia Auction Bridge Club de
feated the Puunene Club in the second
tournament between the Clubs which
was held at the residence of Mr.
James Fantom, Camp One, on Satur
day evening, March 18th.
Three teams from each club com
peted; each team playing each oppos
ing team one hour. Paia won five of
the nine games and also was slightly
ahead in the total score lor the eve
ning which was Paia 321 1 Puunene
2bll. The teams were as follows.
Paia: Rosecrans and Hebert, Lind
say and Beenian, Walker and Walker.
Puunene: Young and Pratt, Fautom
and Robbius, Ralph Walker and Fautom.
MEXICAN SITUATION
CAUSEFOR ANXIETY
Villa Said To Be Surrounded Germans Preparing
For Another Verdun Assault Rus
sians Claim Gains Near Riga.
HONOLULU' March 21 Great Northern is to abandon Island
run with next trip, until November. Message from L. A. Thurston
confirms cablegram received here by local agents yesterday. Hawaii
service may be restored in winter. Necessity of laying up steamers for
overhauling, before o)ening of Alaskan schedule preclud'd accepting
merchants' guarantee.
Mrs. John F. Colburn died in sanitarium after long illness.
Coal for Honolulu may be held up by scarcity of ships. No
immediate clanger of shortage. W in-jammers may be carriers.
WASHINGTON, March 24 Villa surrounded. Decisive battle
imminent. Hcrrera, the Mexican general reported to have joined
Villa against Americans, has cabled that he is personally loyal to
Carrana and will light Villa.
Secretary Baker has asked congress for $S,800,000 to cover cost
of incidcnttals of Mexican expedition.
Lt. Gorrel, one of the missing aviators, found by Lt. Parkingson,
commander of motor truck. Man had lost his way and was forced
to come to earth through lack of gasoline.
LONDON, March 24 Russian bear is clawing way west against
Teuton foes. Fierce Itattle reported from Lake Marocz district where
Slavs claim to hold 3 lines of German trenches. Czar launches new
offensive near Riga.
Verdun lighting dies down except for artillery bombardment.
Believed to be preparation for another assault by Germans.
AUGUSTA, Ga., March 2-1 Three thousand burned out. Au
gusta's loss believed to total at least $5,000,000.
NEW YORK, March 2-1 Sensational murders involve Arthur
Waite, well known tennis player. Has been arrested charged with
poisoning father- and mother-in-law. Waite is said to have two per
sonalities like Dr. Jekyl and Mr. Hyde.
Russian loss said to be 2,500'O00. Slav journalist tells of secret
at Petrograd. No official loss has ever been made public' but through
his newspaper, journalist was able to secure correct copies of killed
and wounded.
SAN FRANCISCO, March 24 Demand is made on Yuan Shih
Kai by Republican army which insists that head of government shall
resign all posts.
Four merchant vessels sunk.
SAN FRANCISCO, March 24 Thirtyscven Japanese laborers
arrived here today from Salina Cruz. Were sent to immigration sta
tion and will be returned to the Mexican port.
BERLIN, March 23 Germany expects to capture Verdun soon.
Germans now occupy French points supporting the mountain ridge
southeast of Ilaucourt. No advance has been made by Slavs, despite
the great Russian offensive on the eastern front, says Berlin official
announcements today.
PARIS, March 2A Violent bombardment is taking place in the
Meuse sector today. Exchange of artillery has been unusually heavy.
Fire diminished west of Meuse. General situation is unchanged.
LONDON, March 23 French bark Bougainville, which left-San
Francisco last August, sunk. Norwegian bark Lindiield, which left
Portland, Oregon in November, suffered like fate. British steamer Sea
Serpent sunk. No details as to fate of crews given out.
WASHINGTON, March 23 Half-cent consumption tax on sugar
finds favor among senators. Finance committee puts off action on
Kitchin bill to hear Hardwick on his plan. Excise tax scheme will
undoubtedly be rejected, but consumption vtax may be needed for
revenue. Considerable discussion took place today upon Senator
Hard wick's proposal bill.
Army bill passes house. Amendments rejected.
EL PASO, March 23 Villa reported today to have established
his base west of Namiqutta, between Chihuahua and Casa Grande. He
is organizing his army and recruiting it as rapidly as possible.
HONOLULU, March 23 Honolulu Chinese start $400,000
building on King street. Tong I long is president of new institution.
Merchants on directorate.
Mayor may ask Chamber of commerce to aid him to select man.
lias one chance left for getting a successor to Shingle on board of
supervisors. Fears another refusal.
NEW YORK, March 23 Women fight to get tickets to big
Willard-Moran fight on Saturday night. Stood in line for hours.
HONOLULU, March 23 Selfish motives hamper progress of
these Islands, says Mrs. Genevieve Rawak, a well known New York
newspaier woman. She whacks "big business" over shoulder of Ad
Club. Hawaii should open doors to immigration, and Territory will
become a great country if more liberal methods are adopted.
Thomas Cullen found dead in Theo. H. Davies & Company's store,
with bullet through body. Suicide, accidental shooting, or murder
r.re the theories confronting police. Cullen was bookkeeper at Aiea.
Hawaii militia will not get cruiser Marblehead for naval work.
Old vessel has been turned over to state of Oregon.
WASHINGTON, March 23 CarranziMas join Villa against
Americans. General llerrera leads 2000 men to give Pershing battle,
bear is entertained here that Carranza cannot control his forces in
zone of invasion. No attempt is made to conceal uneasiness held here
by hitehouse officials. Even Secretary Baker and the President,
who held a conference after news was received, seemed affected. Re
ports says Hcrrera has taken up strong position between San Pedro
and Chihuahua. Also reported that Periling is out of communication,
and that Funston is unable to learn position of American troops.
Carranza officials refuse to give this information. Tension along
L order is acute. Exacted that other leaders may join llerrera.
PARIS, March 23 Held in west, Teutons hear Russia has
smashed east line. Offensive launched by Muscovites growing fast
iu weight as Russians gather for renewal of conflict. Slaves recaptur
ed city from Austrian foemen. Czemowitz falls again, and grand
duke takes Turkish forces from Ottoman-German defenders, in ef
fort to tlank Trebizond.
(Continued on Fage Five.)
