xtf"
THE WEATHER
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
Fair and warmer to-day;
to-morrow.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 206.
GERMAN LINE
IS PENETRATED
AT JACOBSTADT
Russians Victors in Xortli
Admit Loss of Some
TroiH'lips Elsewhere.
DEFEAT AUSTRIAN'S
IX FIGHT IX GALICIA
prrtal r nhu Pt.ipittch In Tnr St
D'Spos. -March 2.1. The Husslans. no-re-dins
t" nn ofhvlal statement Issued
I'ctrncr.id late to-night, have pene
trated tli'- Gcriniu lino at Jacobstadt,
mere Field Marslml on Hlndcnburg's
(font form ' -nIu'iit.
K Is admitted, on the other hand,
(hi: ill' lie: nans retook iitt of the
trrnotirj lost to the Hussions yesterday
fn.itli of I.j'io Drlsvlaty ntid around
lake .Vkh, south of Dwlnsk.
Mdl further south, on tile Iike Nu
otdi front, where the DwInsk-WUna
tt uu toi l the Russian object l e,
il tiu-s n, nail" new gains "under
I.e."' Hr.." tiif statement nay.
Tie Cr.tr fnicoe iilso made all lm
t mt .idial.e In tlallcl.i, capturing
t!, toi.::- oi llolaih ami Khmelck.i, cm
Pu -te. Tin" Austrian launched
it'i"t'r .itta k southeast f Kuslovo,
- i' niu'iiiii '!. Thlx Indicates that the
Mini: has extended from the lluko
i . i ho-lor, where the Initial blows
. MP) it. far t the north. Kuslovo
t. t:2 : tuat-d slightly southwest of Tar
io?"!. The llusslan statement follows:
HnMluiik Itrpurt Victory.
At .Ijcobntidt we penetrated the
ro iy position. At l.akc DrlhVluty
th i ,icmy n.took part of the trenches
let o n.i yesterday. Southwest of
base S'arutiii wij again advanced un
di r hra lire.
In 'iallola, southeast of Kuslovo.
we r pulsed the enemy with great
l-s- To the south wo advanced, for
tlftlng (he ground Rained. We oc
cupied Pouch and Khmelevka, on the
Dilester.
In the Caucasus our pursuit of the
r- my continues. .
Tnc furious Russian onslaughts
Miir.st Field Marshal von Hlndenburs's
)(.' .tneen Itlga and Dwlnsk and In
t Dwlnsk-Wllnu sector show no signs
uf ciikinlng.
Calm In (he Bakowtna,
righting of the most savage character
narks these thrusts at vital points of
4ttern hattle line. Meanwhile, a
rt-enal of the attacks against the Aus
tnan? on the Bukowlna border Is ma
ir.fntinly expected. The Ruinlan sue
cm In tills latter region three days ago,
v'ti the Crur's forces took Ui Usciezko
tndzohesd, thus battering down one ot
tie strung approaches to Czernowitz,
enp:u of the Bukowlna, already seems
tii an. made Its political effect felt.
Hone despatches t reliable Informa
nt f the effect that Rumania Is now
rji in Join the, Allies.
FneUrlrhstadt and Jacobstadt, the
!-. of t no jirewnt vigorous Russian
ffeniie m the north, are tho most
mlr.'rible points on the Teuton front.
In t' l. Mvtor tho tierman line forms
to ilivnt., Mth exposed to Russian
, lr, m,c iir(.. n is in this region, there,
fore, t'wl the Itusslans are exiclcd to
"ir new attacks with the utmct
'rii r aion, fv If they succeed In
I r- iru V j i IlliiilonbiirR's fiont here
t ' -Ail' fjree the Field Marshal to
l II iKe ,i Ci'ner.ll wiuiuninni muii-
siMw.i -il. T.ir mnace to Hlg.i and
l' . s! nuulil thus be dollnltcly removed.
At th -ani- lime the Rupsluns are
ic'tmr lg their Wo aalnt the
T'i ' tK.WiliM i'Ctor, attuckinR from the
a'.d Mjuth. The lighting Is iar
ti N.uWiit in the region of Lake
S. '' Ii. htre the attackers already
H t f. -.1 a withdrawal of the tierman
lri fV-r,il hundred meters westward.
German lien)' l.oln fSrannM.
rVr'n .n an otllclal statement Issued
'"I i''y that the llusslan attacks
kne broktn down thus for "against the
t e"i in!" li' Ttn.-ut defence." The Oer
r. : Ur OflUe atsetts the Clan's troops
'irtrw enormous lotsee. On the Pos
''Vv trimt, whero the drive against
T'iha tn th,. iKirth centres, the Germans
al I tapture of fnurtcen olllcers and
nvn. The statement followa :
T Ru' ian showed their main ag
T'tW' mlvlty In thn evening and
"'t t m They advanced severul
t'H's 'a i'i ttlll; forces ngnlnst the
iTnan poiitluni and bridgehead of
Jjeob.t.iril, on hoth ldfs of the rail
jy bftwte i Mltan and Jacobstadt,
tr.'l four t uns against the Gentian
ilnei north of Wldzy.
On llie front northwest of l'ostavy
I"" numb'r "f prlenners taken by us
is rearhed fontteen ollloers und S9
nt'ti. The Uu.lani In this district
ui'lTtneik no more Important attacks,
rj'iinnily on aerount of the over
''lin"ng llce.s they had Buffered.
Vv ddvar.i ed ,sHeral times with re
ineil frv hnwevi-r. between Marocz
t'l the Wirtiili'f lakee,
The emit saerltloei of men and Hm
jnur'tjn brought to the nuslans In
" sttai'k, nn well as In several
'"al Miternrlhei. at other places, not
ven the miallest advantage, against
Unshrtken tii rman defence.
The vurt nt Him MfiuAi eAn. n.v,P
liusflan" In their now ofTriihlve tiro
'jirc to ir.-.. Field Marshal von Hlr.d
.i'urg' ne runH fpon, tt pIlt K few
i ,i.t of Smorgon (on the Wllna-
railway) almokt straight north
"joiith t,r eastern part of Luke Na-
vU I'oHtavy (on an Important
'Wy (no running went from the
"Hna.Dw.iiHk railway) and Iiike Hogln,
' ' v iuy. it then turns
tli V '" "" ""fthwest throush. the
V'I'UIV I. nl(e. I,.1kkm Ihrmifl, III,,. I
fl(ht llll ..... T...l..-I. ...1
I "n't III the khane of an are further
L?"k"'"l until It renches Jacobstadt.
,:n ,h hue rutm due west to Frlel-
,.,. - iiiv-nvu norin iu uxhuii.
i 1 "l 'inally running by 11
'"P Sijuth and niil n film ,n ,h.
coatt. " " "
GERMANS OUTWITTED.
4
T'lr Own Orvlrra Tamed Acalaat
Tem h ItanaUns, Kara Writer.
hperlat VahU Oopnlch to Tan Scv.
"rreijKjndeiit of the Daily Mall tele-
Vr3 "'dy h follows:
i.i. rm!l" official reports of the ac-wit,-
,ioUln of Dwlnsk lay stress on the
Continued on Third Page.
WAITE HELD ON MURDER CHARGE;
FOUND
Miiul Sn.vs She Saw Him
Dose Soup for Father-iii-law.
TOLD OF ril.AIKiK ON
REGAINING SENSES
Ir Arth'ir Warren Wane was a
prisoner In his own apartment at 43J
Hlvomlile I)rle last night, charged
with the murder by iKiium of his
father-in-law and mother-in-law, Mr.
and Mrs. John K. I'eck of CJrand Rapid",
Mich.
lie will be arraigned In the Tombs
police court this afternoon. Yesterday
he lav In bed Htiipciled from heavy do-es
of trlon.il, sulphon.il and eronal Hodluni.
powerful sed.itlNe. wliUh he l.ad talii n
in nn Intense craving for the Mep his
nerves had denied him.
While he lay In coma under the care
of his physician and a traliud nurse
the Grand Jury was hearing evidence
to determine whether or not there were
grounds fur indicting him for ndniltiU.
tering arsenic In Mrs. I'eck, who died
In'hls apartment on Jiinuar .1". and to
Mr. I'eck. who died there on March 12.
Dr. Walte regained iiiiiscloilsnss
about H oYI's'k hist night after his Muni
tion had been pumped uul by pn stclaus..
Then h" revel ed some Inkling of the
charge that would is- mad" against him.
He was informed that no ch.ng" of at
tempted suicide would be preferred.
"I wish to Inform ou," said le.
tectle C'llilllffe. "that you must eM t
pollc.i action. We do not wl-h at this
time, however, to take any unfair ad
vantage of you."
Dr. Walte made no anwer. Mo
seemed dazed and his miiul wandered.
He asked fur his wife again and again.
Iet:tlo CunlltTo left thu bedlde at
HMD. lie said that Dr. Watte un
doubtedlv would recover and that h
probably' would be In siieh condition that
by noon to-day he could be removed
from his apartment and locked up.
Dr. Waltc's. parent will arrie In
New York at i o'clock to-nlshi from
Grand Itapids.
Th" two witness's evainlned benire
the Grand Jury enenlny by Assistant
District Atton.c Kmbiee gae testi
mony which wan a re."tltiou ot the
Information the h't'l plaied befoie
District Attorney Sniilin so. no lioui
e-lrtr MnrieM clrcimist.i'itiHlly ,cens-
lug Dr, Walte, which Imiiilled Judge
Hwann esterday morning to order the
young dentist's arrest on tho charg'i of
murder. , .,,,
These wltnesH's were Dora llllller, a
negro maid in Ir. Wulte's upartment,
and Dr. Jacob Cornell of R.irltan, N. J.,
who. with his two sisters. Mr. M. J.
Swlnton and Mrs. Henry llardw Ick. was
a second cihim.ii of Mrs. John 1.. I'eck
and himself a lifelong friend of the
elderly couple.
Dr. Will If Vureil I'm lent.
In h'T "l.iteinent made to District
Minima Swann and Assistant D'Mrlet
Attornev Kmbree Dora ililll'f said she
know lUtl" l,1,,nlt '"" clr.uni"tnnces
of Mrs. reek's Illness n-id death be
caiiM' she whs seldom In Mr-. I'eck h
tick room and that the care of Mrs,
Peck had been undertaken by Dr. W alte.
nit w e. Mrs. flam lends,, I'eck Walte.
and Mis. bneh. a trained nurse. The
maid' wan unable to say whether there
was anvthlng Misplelnus about the. vlo
Tem lUn'"s which endul Mrs. I'rck's
llr regiirds the last days, of Mrs. I'eck
die w ' able tot.stlfy eMil cltlv. About
two davs before Mr. I'eck died I she was
unable to recall the exact horns of the
occurremej) she was In the kitchen of
the Walte apartment preparing soup
for the family ll"1 lctor and his wife
ami ho Slw fther.l-..law. As she
?e moved tho soup from the range Dr.
Walte entered Pi- kitchen and poured a
few drops of Unuld from u small bottle
nio one of the plates of soup.
"Dr Walte put something In Hie plate
of soup." the maid told Judge Swann.
"and then said to me. 'Dora, here h
Hon" medicine for father. You taMe
It and see If U Isn't t'" I'"".
know his mouth Is sore.
.ii inhted the soup," continued the
maid "and found that It waM cooling
all right. I didn't tusle anything un
neasant. It seemed nil right. I Just
touched a leasi-oonful to my lips. Then
1 carried Mr. t'eck'n plate Into tho dining
room nnd set It before him. I noticed
that he tried It and then made n face
didn't like It for some reason. He
looked up at his daughter. Mrs. Walte.
and said kind of peevishly. 'Clara, you're
a poor, housekeeper if that th best
tmiiiiiiBiiiiiv''' umiiBAaiiiiiiii umiiiiiii bhhiiiiihp''' -nnKiH
I w,sBa ' bHIIIIIIIIIIA -
&?it$ . V ''.! .
i ii. . ii
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1916. Coi.yrirnf.lMG.ft ihr Sun rrifli(.
UNCONSCIOUS FROM DRUG
QlMOtftAVOOO AMO
QN the left is John K. Peck, and on the right his. wife. Htmtinh .M.
I'eck. In the centre at the top is their son. Percy S. I'eck, ho
instigated the investigation. Below, is Dr. Arthur Warren White, son-in-lnw
of Mr. and Mrs-. Peck, who is n prisoner in his apartment at .lil."
Riverside Drive, nccused of murder.
t kind of soup you can have made In this
houie Mr. reck then pushed the soup
uway from htm. and said he would like
to have some tea.
"I left the room Just then and went
Into one of the other rooms for some
thing I wanted before returning to the
kitchen Wln-n I got back to the
kitchen, tin re win Dr. Walte. He said
li ine, 'Dora, father ahl he would like
:i cup of tea. He didn't seem to like
the soup, so I have put some of the
medicine Into his tea.' Dr. Walte cur
ried Mr. I'eek's cup of ten Into the
dining room himself. I don't know for
sure that Mr. I'eck diank It. I wasn't
In the dki.ing room, but the cup hh
empty when 1 cleared the table."
3,000 JOIN STRIKERS
IN FIFTH AVE. RIOT
Hnttl" With Polir Aftrr Tai
lors Walk Out of -jr,o
Shopj.
Five hundred striking ts!lnr. leaving
shops In or near Fifth avenue, startid
a parade south from In front of St.
I'.itrlrlt's Cathedral yesterday afternoon.
They marched hy twos, shoving men
and women off the sidewalk, until they
reached Thirtieth street. There, us It
was after . o'clock, they met thousands
of inn and women, pouring out of the
rurroundlng buildings.
They sonn attracted throng of .1,000
working inn and women, highly etched,
shouting and hooting. The crowd blocked
traffic 111 Flfl.i avenue frun Twenty
flg'ith to Thirty-second street. Condi
tions bora 'no so b.nl that 100 police re
suves arid mounted men were culled to
restore order, I'lee-r Flftn avenue and the
Fide streets for traffic and quell the
tendencies of the strikers to j lot.
With the iJrrivul of the policemen the
strikers and their allies became threat
ening, yelling defiance to the uniformed
men, Tiny refured to move In answer
to the orders of the police and began
to hurl pleren of Ice, sticks und any mis
sile at hand among the policemen,
Final!', acting under order from Sergt.
Cliarlis liufsky, In charge of the re
serves from the West Thirtieth street
police station, and l.leut. William C.
i;gan of Traffic Siprad C the police,
charaiil the throng, trying to force the
shouting men mxl .women Into the side
streets to the east and west of the
u'nl1"' . .
Flying wedges were formed. Tho per-
fectlv trained police horses, obeying
tho command of their riders, moved to
ward the crowd of yelling, gesticulat
ing strikers and their sympathizers. The
crowd olfeied rtslstuiae, and the rapid
smack of police clubs, on tho shoulders
of the strikers could be heard ubove
the ells.
The wtrlkers fought back, hurling Ice
and llndlug missiles In the waste cans
hut tho policemen In thn end forced
them to retieat.
The moment, however, that tho police
men turned from one point to drive
the crowd back from another they would
bo followed by the persons who only
u moment before had been In retreat
Thus, back and forward, tho policemen
und their opponents moved In their but
tle. Hats of the men were smashed,
Garments of the women wero torn.
Women worn crushed In the Jam until
thev screamed frantically and soma
fainted.
The policemen gave the guesta of the
Holland House nnd spectators tu thn
buildings along thu avenue a splendid
inhibition of handling the excited mob
with despatch. In half an hour they
hud cleared Fifth avenue. They ar
rested thirteen men on charges of dis
orderly conduct, parndlng without n li
cense nnd various other charges. Tho
men were taken to thn Thirtieth street
police station and then to thn night
court,
Thu strikers who paraded uie sup
posed to be some of the men who went
UM0MtwOOB
Dr. Cornell, who practled medicine In
hli younger days, but whose means are
Much that he was able to retire, told
Judge Swann that he visited the Walte
iiTMirtmeut on the evening of Saturday.
March 11. Ie was there about 7 P. M.
Hh greeted hl cousin ntid old friend.
Mr. I'eck. and talked with him at mine
length.
"Mr. t'icit wn elenr eved mil seem
ingly comfortable. In doily and mind,
although lie complained of lutes' ''i.il de
rangement. I noted, 'imw-eu r, that lie
was In good condition and that 'ii"
health had Improved. Dr. Albertu
Adalr Moore had been at the apirt
meiit. I was told, and li.nl made out i
simple prescription to relieve Mr. Dock's
out In a general strike, started jestcrda
by tin custom tailors atllMat.'d' with t."
Anialgamat. d Clothing Workers uf
America. II Is said rh.it I. mm tailor
stopid work in ulsnit L'jo shops. In Man-
Ihult.iti mii, I Hronkln.
I Thi parade seems to have 1 n a dem-
. onstritlon stalled with the Idea of li,.
lliienclng other tailors emploe. in I'llt'i
liieni. sin ,,m ii j-o out on nrlkc. As
sembling near St. Patrick's Cathedral tne
linen stalled down Fifth aenie. The
stopped III front of each taller etab-
llHhment, hooted, Jeeied and called to
tailors to Join tin m.
Thy (,.pt to the sldiwalk and. It was
ch.irgid, own elbnweil woni'ii and chil
dren lnu the street near swiftlv moving
aliloninblles. They laughed ,,i .i twins
who' protested, They Mopp.il ti allic at
Forty-second street and Fifth ai.-nue ler
a time, but wen- drhen ! in 1 li l.leut.
Kgun and several iiuitiiii.il men
lr was not until te Miikut. met
friends who were leaving woilt In the
loft buildings that they became reall
unmanageable for a tlni'.
The police also had troub'e with Ins.
cult strike pickets al Tenth nei.iie iml
Sixteenth stifrt, More than a thou,
sand iilckets ni.in-iiiil two by two tu i,..
factory of the National Itisciil' . niii'.'i f v
111 Tenth uveuiie and leftisid t,i diapers,,
when oldel.'d hy rhe police In do so.
Th police charged I hem, lisp g their
dubs, nnd tlnall) for 1 the ( k.r.- to
scatter.
SWEDISH EDITORS ARRESTED.
4'hnrueil With Treason for dn
cntlng Strike In I'nse of Wnr.
Stockholm, March 2.'l Three Social
ist editors, Missrs. I Ineglund. .111 inllii
enllal memlaT of Parliament; Oljoimd
nnd llcilon, have been ari'Sted charged
, with high treason
I The charge w as hi ought iu cone.
J uuence of a resolution adopted at a con
ference of Swedish Soclal'st ori..'i:iUii.
Hons that u general strike and 11 revolu
Hon b" started If Swedeli enters the
war
J Tho Royalist papers demanded the
iirresi and punishment of the leader h nf
the contcrenco,
DISAPPEARS FROM FERRY.
' M nil Thought to He W. II. Minis
, Left Coal. .Irnels 11 ml lint.
Hugh Mealea of HI Perry stieet was
crossing South Ferry to Mmokiyn with
'a truck list nlglit when a niddle iged
man wearing 11 humlsoinu fur overcit
and a silk hat began 10 talk to h m
Inn the Immortality of the soul and k.'l
Id red subject!, of which .Meal, 1 wan on'
'slightly Informed. lie left the m. 11
for a few minutes and when he returned '
I notitvd ho had rllsappiMicd,
When the boat re.ulinl the Atlantic'
iionui! slip Meah-a fi'iiml the trial's
I hat and overcoat had been ll.riwn into
Ills truck, Mealea dlove to the Amllv
I strict police station and is-porbd the,
I Incident, In 11 pocket of Hie on was
found n ring set wllh two ill'imonils
and a ruby, which the pollen sihl wis
1 worth $ t.KOO ; also 11 haul; book of
1 llrener & Wlnlerh iiiser, brewers' sup.
plhs, fdbi lliisliwlck aonue. Itiooklyn,
. A ioirosentntle of tho firm blent lied
the bunk bunk as one aws nipicd by
1 their genep.il manager William II Maas
, of iniil Peclllo street, This n.miii agreed
wlththeliiltl.tlslntlicli.il "W II ,M,"
iAI Mr. M.uih'h hoiiin It was said last
night that he had not relurmd I
Intestinal complaint, Dr W.ilte hail
gone out tu a nearb I'tug store, I was
told also, to hive the pres.T.ption filled.
It was largely in the nature of a seda-
II.'
Dr Waite oaine into the apartment
wh le I was there, entering appireutly
frum the street, und went Into tile room
where Mr. I'eck was lying down. Dr.
aile gae Mr. I Vol; some medicine
and soon after I Irenid my old friend
gioaii. I lett the house shortly after
ward. At 7 o'clock on the following
morning, March 1", I was called to the
telephone by Mi.s. Walte, who told me
that her father hud died In the night.
I was shocked because I had satisfied
ntiself that .Mr. I'eck was gaining In
health
"At 2 o'clock In the afternoon of
i lie same day I went to tho Walte upart
ment to express my sympathy. Tho
dot tor answered my ring at the bell
and blocked the doorway with his body.
I assumed from his manner that ho was
not anxious to have me enter the apart
ment. "'It was h.irdly necessary for you
to come.' he said, shortly
"'Well,' I said, "I decided to come
anyway.' and at that 1 brush's! piM
Dr Walte and entered the Imus'-."
The.i' were the evtPMtiul points of
tli- Information which Judge Swann is
using for Grand Jury purposes mil
which prclplt.it eil the arrest of Dr.
Wane. There were, however, other clr-
CiiMdnmd mi ,((.( I'tifr,
GERMAN BAZAAR ENDS
WITH $750,000 CLEAR
Cii'ilinal Farley Sends SI 00 to
Help Teutonic War Suf
ferers' Fund.
Tnr sum of ?;r,n,nfln ie!l Br, across
Un- waiir. thrnriglr rhe Jtcd Cross and
olhe- np'tioles. as the p suit of the Ger
man h.u.iar which ended at M idlsun
S'lil.ire Garden las' nitfct, and was
gell for the ben, in of the war suf.
fen is In Germnny, Austen. Huttgarv and
allied cniiniiies, .t 11 clock tile 'great
elis'k In the centre of th,. Garden reg.
Istered mer J7r.(i,ofin ,1H the total re.
eelpts. ,-HMl Jllllils P Me.er of Hie Ham.
buig-Anieilciu Line, treasurer uf the
.ut.ilr. estlmaied tli.it when certain do.
nations coming In from villous soeletie.s
!i'ilr the ainount w,ll swell to mer
$sioi lllill
Fi.iiii till" 'he expenses IIIIIM be de
ducted, hut as mosi uf the 1,1 hot- und
ronton il was a free ft 011 the pan ,,f
llio who took pari these wl I not lie
mop' than f ,'xi.iiiiii in- .iM.oiiii, I'unt.
Ilicker. head ot the Gi rman lt-d Cross
In his coimrr. said that no such sin.
p. ndoiis oiitpoiiilng of practical sym
pathy hud haipened In hi" knowledge
-And It cam" from many ipiirters. For
example, among tho gifts received yes
terday was n check for $ 1 ml from Car
din 1: F.nley,
Ar midnight a i"--it army nf workmen
ib'sci jnleil upon Mm G inlen and began
in tear nwuy the booths nnd throw
such mtipti :i were efi unsold Into
pucklne ciees. The fulr. which brought
l.oiin.iKiM men .uul women to the Garden,
ae ended, and now lame rhe her 'nh in
las.; of .lining the pin ! lor t. jlrill,
Wlthird Hi- lit to-mnrrow night
A G. Knelhh . president of Hie Fnlted
Gerii'irii Siulet.es. loudly ihhs,s the
wink Hie pro'no'ers did. And they
woilied' No alone the t and In
lliientlal nvn and weinen, th,. hankers,
Hie big bis-liiess men, Hie noclally prom.
Ineiit women, but ill" p. or ami 'nbsciiie.
Coming Hiere t.efoi.. in in ti)P morning
In nflerday. Itiey tolled all day. strlv
lug Iml. I to sell things for the ullllcted
ones 111 Cm ope
'A id from the flrsn t 1 th,. last," said
1 big pnlli-oMi.in who Mood guard theie
Hi day, "1,01 one unpleaMinr thing has
happeiuil. not even In the ! r tun-
111'.' "
U. S. TO TRY LEWIS GUN.
llelicleil Mere, till,. )M). rnv'rt
It 11 success,
Wash v,i-o Match I'll t,
nniur 01V1 e s of Hie I'n'ted States ,ci mv
'in iriMiuIng to test the Lewis machine
gin m invention by Col. . , i,,.wls
lei led '
Co'. Lewis niTiied his gnu p, the
Fnlted Stales Government i.foio the
l.'uiope.ili war, but the offer was re
jected, as ll was stall d tint Hit, tests
did not onie up to iciiilreiiicnts. Col.
Lewis then went lo London and broughl
: in the a'lenllon of the llrltish mill
ion' aiiHioi'lllis, It was ailuped, and
F. mie and llejglum. a. well as ling
land, have made use of the gun during
the pi cent war.
nn,l rMMilng AMeintlon.
i
FIRST STORY
OF PERSHING'S
RECORDMARCH
(Jniphif AccoiiiM Snil by
Courier From liciiilquiir
ters in .Mexico.
150 MILK IflDK IX
DUST CHOKKI) DKSKKT
Hy I'l.OVI) i. r;iiiiio..
HltAligt'.MtrkllS Of Tttr: I'NITI'.ri St.ti
Kxi'KiiiTio.s'Aiir Foiicl', Mexico. In Oamv
on San Miguel III or, mr Colonla
Dublan, March (by courier to Co
lumbus, N. M March 23). It Is from
this point as a bnsc of operations that
Gen. John J. Pershing nnd the Fnlted
Stales iroops are conducting the search
for Vllln.
A strong llt.e of communications
stretching from hero to the border Is
dally bringing reenfoivcments and sup
plies, to the riold forces. ClUIImi scouts.
Mormon guides and mitle spies ure pro
viding Information and directions upon
which the man hunt Is being conducted.
How with tho lifting of the "watch
ful waiting" ban thn United StutrH forces
pushed .icioss tho border at two dltT.1
ent places und reached this point by dlf
lerent routes Is a story Just released
by the mlltttiry censor, and bore ll Is:
Pershing Surprised Spire.
When the Mist column cro'sed the bor
der Wednesday, March IS, Mexican slile,
ns expected, carried word of It further
1 south, so that Its coming was no sur
prise. Hut with attention tittractod at
that point Gen. Pershing, t the head
1 of the Hying column of light march
! Ing mounted troops, secret,,' municuvred
the second dish ncross the line from
1111 unexpected isilnl on the lsirder.
Trace tho International boundary line
w.st from 11 Paso to the point where
j it makes the llr-l sudden Jog to tin'
' south. In this odd corner of rhe l.'nited
States, titty mlbs from the closest rail
road, troiiim from various points along
the border had been iisemnllng for three
' dus. At Hie High lainesome and Cut-
j befson ranches these forces were ready
1 lor tho maioh late Wednesday night,
t I'pnn the hi rival of Gen. Pershing
Ishoitly after midnight the inarch to the
louth was started.
1 I had the good fortune to accompany
. (Jen. Pershing from Columbus to the
'lsirder rendezvous, after a hundred mil
j trip in civilian owned automobiles sud
.denly iressed Into service. The auto-
I inolilleo wete left at Culberson, ns well
, as nil heavy baggage. The oiders were
thst the column would be us Itght as pas
Klhle and Is ready to make long marches.
Crossed florder .'III.. A, M.
We crossed the border at 2 IS o'clock
T.tursd.i morning Just north of trjo
Auu.i W.inco. The inght was extremely
cold and .1 mealy moon made magic
shadows behind the cactus and Spanish
'needles, The Hoopers, without oer
jio.ns arid man of them minus the regu
lation sweater coats. Mapped their nrms
I t i keep warm.
With the appearance of the sun over
the eas'ern ridge of nameless mountains
the cold eh.ing.il to extreme heat ami
clouds of il.oking dust M 7:3 In the
morning the sweating hois.s were un
s nldleil and rmhuiiics.cd on the plain 1s
hlnd the rock ot Carnrto, the natural
Mmnghold behind which Geronimo made
bis last strongest stand when he was
chased across rhe holder by Fnlted
States troops in I".".
The horses watered, n moat consumed,
two hours sleep on rhe hiked gmund,
and the column was off on another
twenty-five mile leg.
At Carrlmi the column lost a culd".
Charlie Tracy, u border rider, arid hs
Mexican mozo, l.nls Marino, packed two
das rations, tilled their cautions, and
struck into the inour a'Jis lo the east,
Tr.icoy came out of Mexico .it Colum
bus on Wednesday ami brought with
him the last reports nf the whereabouts
of Villa.
Last rf ol Villa.
lie lemrted Hint he nr. 1 four men had
enconnleied rhe Iminllt chieftain's ad
value guards ,,t a li!nl t'Ctween here
and Ctsiis Grande- and that 'he- bad
exchanged shot., but b" and his men
had 1 scaped b making a detour 10 rhe
wesr lie sin! that from the mountain
rldse he hurt eon Villa, with between
.tii" and men, crossing the .Mexico
Northwestern liullrond tracks just above
Nuowi Casus Grandee.
lie promised Gen. Pershing tli.it he
would be able to report on Villa's
whereabouts as soon as the column
reached Cssiiji Grnrides, Without further
ado he, with the Mexican, set out Into
the mountain, on u 'rack of more than
inn miles, with only one water hole ho.
I tweon them am thcr goal.
At 7:31 Thurs.ta night, after almost
seven hours of continued unrolling
across .1 waterless desert, the green cot -toiiwood
'His Dial cluster close around
the sptlngs of iijltos came into view
tliiough the waning light, and the wenrv
animals, scouring Iho green nnd the
1 water, whinnied and ijulckenea their
pin e
The Mi; hi ul nillos.
We spent tin' night at njlti.i, lloives
and men Npl.ishrd ami drank the.r ill,
In the ri'senolr of csd spring water In
' the midst of the plain, nuts do o; the
1 picket lines the signal service men. with
their t nllo eiUlpimnt, made lepeated ef.
1 forts to get In touch, through the air.
with arm. Iieaibiuarlers at Columbus
The tl'iop bulclieis were called Into the
ranch yard and a number of yearlings
, Gutightcieii as u fr.sh meat supply foi
lie next day Tho owning meal was of
bin on, hard tack and coffee, and the i n.
lite supply of cooked filjolcs which the
s'ciiola Miirt I111 z had oil hand disap
peared before the hungry troopers,
mobbed i.boiit the disir of Iut kitchen
"ll Is little we have to cut, -riiiircs,"
de said, The Vllllstas stopped h on
ihe'i tight finm Columbus Thej took
ovi-othltig and destio.icd almoM ei.i.i
thing ele. M'0 this i',ired walnut bed
which I'.nne fiom the gnat fit j ot
Guailalajuia They broke it down with
the butts of their guns Mj daughter
hen-, she that tiny callnl 'The Light of
OjUos,' we had to ktop In 1 Ii h!,inK M
the loft of the barn whllu the Vllllstas
Were hcie.
"We fouled an.' minute liny would
burn tin bam. No, Senores their Jcfe,
that sou or llio iiewi, villa, was not vlth
Coiillaued on Berond Payi:.
Highest temperature yesterday,
Detailed weather, mall'unil mar! no rep'
VILLA DEFEATED TWICE,
FLEEING, BORDER HEARS;
MA Y CALL MILITIA TO-DA Y
Carranza Force Drove Chieftain From Santa
Clara to El Oso, Says Gen. Gavira Col.
Oodd's Force in .Vicinity, May
Have Had a Hand.
NO NEWS FROM GENERAL PERSHING
REGARDING MOVEMENTS OF TROOPS
War Department Has Asked Carranza Why He Rushes
Troops to Border Herrera's Desertion to Villa
Still a Matter of Doubt.
Villa wan attacked and defeated nt Santa Gertrudes last iiinht, hy
Carranza troops. Gen. Gnvirn announced after receiving a ilespntch from
the south. Villa fled to El Oso.
No word was received at Washinprtnn yesterday front Cnrranz?. In
repnrd to the protocol hetween the two countries. Ambassador Designate
Arredondo expects one to-day.
Cnrranzn has been asked, it is said, what is the meaninp; of the move
ment of mnny of his troops to the border.
The Cabinet may decide to-day to call out the cavalry forces in tin
State militia to patrol the border.
Whether or not Gen. Luis Herrera has joined Villa with 'J.000 Cnr
ranzistas is still u matter of doubt. Mr. Arredondo denies it, ns nlao
does a tclcirrnm said to be siftned by Herrera.
On the other hand, Gen. Hell of El Paso is reported to have notified
Gen, Kunston late last nifrht that Herrera had deserted Carranza.
The War Department is investiiratinK the Herrera report, and in th
absence of confirmation is withholding judgment.
First detailed story of the record marches of Per.shiiiK's troops in
Mexico is sent to Tin: Sun, uncensorcd, from the headquarter" of the
United States expeditionary forces.
Villa was forced to retreat to Namiquipa by Carranza forces after
a clash at Santa Clara, according to a message from Gen. Hertaui.
I Col. Dodd's force is in that vicinity and may have taken part, is thn
belief in El Paso.
A telegram purporting to lie from Gen. I.uis Herrera was shown at
'Juarez, the Mexican denying he had joined Villa, nnd stating that he wan
j fighting the bandits.
I Gen. Funston, at San Antonio, received a message from Gen. Bsll,
nt El Paso, late last night confirming the report of Gen. Herrera's de
sertion.
Gen. Funston has ordered Gen. Pershing to send more report con
cerning what is going on at the front. He is worried over lack of in
formation. Gen. Funston has asked for eight more aeroplanes for service at
the border. The War Department ordered them to the bonier.
Lieut. Gorrcll, the nvintor missing since Sunday, was found nearly
starved.
Senator Sherman of Illinois tried in vain to get action in the Kcnnta
on his proposal to raise a volunteer force of 50,(100 for service in .Mexico.
WHY BIG FORCE AT BORDER?
U. S. ASKS OF CARRANZA
Washington, March 13, Although
Stato Department officials claim to
have nothing to substantiate it, Hie re
port persisted to-night in Admluistri
rlon circles that the l.'nited States had
made Inquiries of Gen. Carranza as to
the purp,,!"!i "f ,u, reported concentra
tion of .Mexican forces at various points
along the border.
The assembling of these troops has
caused considerable uneasiness In Amer
ican towns along the International boiin.
dary and particularly at Kl Paso, Tex.
While appeals have been made lo the
War Department from these towns for
larger forces 10 protect them from pos
sible attack, officers of the army
frankly Mate that with th exception
of about e.eoo troops, practically th"
entire, mobile force of the regular army
Is alieudv on Ihe border.
It is understood th situation will be
thmouglilv discussed at to-morrow'ii
meeting of the Cabin!, with a view to
determining ho' additional troops can
he raised. At the late at which enlist,
merits are lomlne In under the Jmnt res
nlutlon passed I isl week permitting the
President to recruit the regular army up
lo war strength It will take trom six to
nine months to get the. CO.uvO additional
men rcnulred,
I'm that reason It is le-Heveri the
Cibmot will give serious thought to the
ubvs.iblll1' of calling out at least .1
portion of the National Guanl should
the situation in Mexico pro n 11
iren.iemg.
Wan fTlry !!.
Ami.' olllcers declare, at the present
time tlie most needed troops are c.ival y,
and arc suggesting the w.sdoul of calling
to the inlot th" crack caiulry leglmci.'s
nf New York, Pennsylvania, "h'o and
Illinois, Subsequently. It ! 1"',l'i ,n'
entire National Guard would hio to ,i
eallul out If the M.ix.ean situation grow
more serious than II now Is,
The War lep irtmeut Is still at sou
as to what Gen Herrera nd b.s 2."liu
Ciiriiii.i troops In Chihuahua are doing.
Ileports bue been receied s.'oini
thai Herrera has joined Villi, others
that In' ha. not.
Sooreturv linker said Into to-night that
t,,. was without detiulle conilrmatioii of
the defection of flerror.i.
It w is learned at the Department that
the dc-iiat ll receed last n.ght f'om
Gin. runsinn forwarded a statement
from Gen. Fell, commanding at Kl I'aso,
that be hud heird tho iopot of Hcrn-ru's
revolt. In the absence uf more ileflnlte
mfiirmttlon Seciet.iry Haker Is Inc.incd
lo await further details before ciertiiii.c,
the 1 opart
I can ssy again to-nlgm." declared
Secictiirv Halter, "thin as far as ou.
despatches show not a shot has hoop
find by Ami'ilcan trouper elnon the
Pershing expedition went into .Mexico.''
Secntiiry Hiker an1101111.nl the n
celpl of 1 telegram from Gen. Funston
telling of the safe anlwil at Ca.-us
Giandcs of Lieut Fdgar S. G"lTo, th"
u-t of three arm a. atom who f illed to
ani'1' vltii tin list of t.io uco siU.idion
on Tuesday.
llcpnrl From I'miMon,
Pol'nwlng Is the text of the tilcuram
from Urn, Funston ;
Following Jllst leccived rroni Major
Sample nt Columbus "Lieut Park.
Ilisou of the Twcutbtli llifuntlj., mm
muudtng a truck tialn it turning from
MB. 7
PRICE TWO CENTS.
Casus Giandes. loinul Lieut. Gorre.lt
and Ins aeroplane 111 I'.ln o'clock .ea
tenia; afternoon ten Hides niutli of
Ascencion. Gorrell lost 1 i-. ,,y sun.
day mill luiir run out of giisoicna.
The tiuik Irani supplied him with gas
olene .11,, I 1. , (uilinueii Ins night
1 1 Casus Giandes A report trom
Casus Grandes just reeeivtd states that
.111 uwutnis have .uriied thire
safe
arid well I'm,,,,
llenlo llorrern lleporl.
Tllseo Arredondo, C.ur.uias repro.
1011t.it ive ,ere. tailed on , 1 rotary of
Stale Liinsing and Counsellor I'oli; of
the State Department to-il.u and in
lonnettnui w.rh u d.si iismoii of the
terms of Hie proposed i:ot.,,,l hetweeli
tile two tlovi' nee, ts tlei laicd that he
I';"1 I''d an t.'t id natemenr from
Mexico denying n. r-poit d detection
ot Gen. l.Ul.s llen.,.l.
Although he did not explain to Mi.
Lansing or in. polii where Ins Infor
mation came renin it is m.dors'ood thn-.
.Mr. Arredondo based iiformutlun
on a di spute,, i, , v. d iroin i;,n. u
irt ,i Kl Pus,,
Aptlalel.tte tl., r I i.p ir-'ilen! .c
not ,il otelLer est! l ed. lor ll.e r'a0l.
thai it, a. ty mi rr ictinr.s were ssnr
the Amerc-.tri t'..,, m., lt lMiiiu ana
Dur.tiigo. i.siilnu- thar the npirt "i"
1 x.i t i.icts as lour, is ;i,, ,,;, The
Department Is aim. nu tig.,..?,!.- ihe r-
l'"i i 11 n "t .11 i;t 'a ,, or Me
llerre -.i, brother of the C!i,iuat-iri
'oi
'.-ini-
riainier.
Mr. Arrednmlo told Mr. I.mslng r.t
Gn Id rr.in had not been removed
from ho command by Gen. Ca'r.nu.i.
but was .tciiitllv commanding ore. of th
exp-ilitjons ..en! f-i,m th" -outl! iigalns
V.lla.
Contrary to the expectations of off .
rials here. Mr An mlo u.n nnuh 1.
at Ids conferem o ,,., ,y ,.,,.M1, ,;,
Canunzas tlntl ui.pn.val of iiu po.
mol lie cxphsi, d Hi., ii.-l , 1. h-,.,i.
mer. that Hie First Chief would w -him
to-morrow npprnvmi Hie iigre,
merit
Secretnry L.insl'.g. who returned '.
W usliinginn lo-duy from 1 f 11 tlcv vt.
latum, iipproyod the tentai.ve dr.tfi
.ign-d 01 by .Mr. I'oU. and H.e M. .:r
'iipiom.it.
W inn in Hu Willi lllu,
While t!i,j oiotoiol aa It stu ds n
said 10 comt .,11 tii"s'.oiji of in llniry
expnlen, wh'ch might ar.s,. ,,, -or
neciion with Joint ,0 torn again! V'lln
't makes no uieuinni, :t is si-d ..e 'o
whir disposition slull he made o' (.!
bailer 11 taught by Ciilt.-d Sl.t'es tiso;.
It is iindei sti.iid, howeier, ih.it Prfs
dent Wilson is willing th,. Villa -tioun!
bo turned ow tj tbu Cirrarira a'j.noi,
r.i .
Strong iloii'.ts me thrown b V. t
s'ti'e I'epaninini 011 repoiis th.n G.'n.
l'i rshtng u. s .en the Mexicm :' n','.
W t ..lel'li it 1 dload ..llio. if I '.i-.i.i 1;,-, i.,i.., ,
It being iMH.i.nni at the Depar'io. :'t
that Peishmg, al the siiggcslioti of jt.u
State Department. ws ordered ot rt
I no oei an railroad' wnhon ihe
ismsinl ot Lie '.11 r.i nz.i aiiHioi "
Sicioiary ot W..r 1 1. I. 1 cluiiin! in
h.,i 110 i-Di 1 11 : maiion o tho repo t, lir
.! 11 olllcers here li' le Inclined li. he
liie thsl ll IVrsii'ng hid .simng rossiv,-,
lo iblllk that the possession of the I Ml
r.iud lusessiir to the llel'e.i", I)',
Il.h fill. 1 ll. Woll1. 1 j-e,, ll ,1 ,
let il plon'. ii-' '.ill. 11 oci ialer
Although o. Si lie I ii 11 ,rin 1 c ..,
t -.1 . t ' .. ' e . ' O II" "l'i 1 ,
ci'n nam .' he ItpoMs trom 1'' l
that th. n. iry c nn u r d - ,i
wirs pren.ir ng to disarm ail Me ,- ..
S
