v
. . / /
The
vol,, n. No. 48. SKMI-WfcKKLY.
MAX IS REACHED
< IN MEXICAN AFFAIRS ~
? - Nashville, Tei
REBELLION RAMPANT i In the eastern' i
to-day swept a
llerrera's Disaffection is Far-Reach- blocks, causing
inn ami Serious Consequences, It 000. One deat
Is FlmiiKht-*-Plame of Open Revolt was reported.
Is Spreading Throughout Northern ed various injur!
Confines of Southern Republic? less. Six hund
Drastic Steps Will Be Made to DIs- stroved.
ami All MexicanH Alcmu Border. ' The section \
by residences at
+ * + + + + + * + , lies were made
El Paso, Texas, March 23. +, The flie, orl,
Private advices reaching here j dwelling at Rtl
to-day confirmed reports that I was fanned by
Gen. Euis Herrera had joined +!a pn 1 three bin
the Villa forces at Chihauhua + long. About 5
and left little room for doubt + stroyed, Includii
that Mexican affairs had reached + Little Sisters of
a point fraught with far-reach- > tutlon for the cj
lng and perhaps serious consc- ?fr Methodist churc
quences to this country. Baptist church.
+ + + Governor Rye
* tia and all sen
Not only was it accepted here as tlons to aid fir
definite that Herre-a had declare,! burned districts
against both Carranza and the finite.1 to-night against
States, but it was asserted with equal The Cumberh
confidence that Torreon is In the burned sectf
hands of Villa forces rnd thr.t all section of Nasln
northern Mexico is seething with \ small ball
open rebellion against the de facto j thrown by a boj
government. vacant lot starte
Situation Grave driving fifty mil
So grave was the situnt' ei regard- the burning gra
M here that the military authorities flames, which qi
to-day planned drastic stops to re-'lng mill and lea]
lleve all Mexicans in El Paso of any building,
arms they might ' nve concealed in j It was estims
ihefr homes and enforce what v ould 3.000 persons ai
he practically martial law in "little! suit of 'fhe fire.
.Chihauhua," the heart of El Paso'a J One hundred
Mexican section. tionul Guard of '
All night El Paso waited for the by Governor Rvc
warning whistles, which would tell fire zone and
of the expected outbreak. Three throughout the i
hundred soldiers with machine gun days to aid in i
detachments waited under arms for vent possible lo
any emergency and the police reserves,
equipped with rifles, wer also ]
held ready. ' al bridge after
It is understood that government Gen Gavira at
officials here sent Washington a to the police, tl
recommendation couched in the a plot had acti
strongest terms, urging that steps be by Herrera ant
taken to disarm all Mexicans along start rioting in
the border, taking the right of forci- dred men were
ble entry and search if necessary, enlisted as a nu
The Washington authorities hereto- the police, plain
fore have opposed such action on pated that as i
the ground that it would he misinter- stnrted large ni
preted by the Mexicans and discrim- would join them
ination against them. Precaution!
It is now insisted by local author! The precautU
tle?-that the time has passed for any military and civ
? delicacy In handling the situation. It not relaxed to-c
is pointed out that no American is part the result o
permitted to enter Mexico armed and ders that espec
that there has been a far greater lax- taken at all poll
Ity on this side of the border than to safeguard liv
was desirable. I view of the disal
The situation in Juarez remains I Herrera and otl
mostly a subject of conjecture with ains in northerr
such information as Is obtainable The belief pf
?bearing a decidedly sinister aspect, familiar with M
It Is known that a bitter feud exists , that if the repo
-- ? - i -
imiween me mayor, Manuel I'rieto, haunuu serlousl}
and te military commander. Gen. Ga- of the first chl
brlel Gavia. Prleto Is n staunch Gar- long before- thoi
ranza supporter, while Gavlra Is de- In Sonora, which
voted to the Interests of Gen. Ohre-| of the Obregon i
gon, Carranza's minister of war, who has been-more tl
Is known to be bitterly hostile to the Garranza author
first ehief's program, especially as It j It Is the natl\
relates to co-operation with Amerl- regon and Its p<
cans. Gavlra's troops are Obregon- devoted to his In
istas and former Vlllistas. , the military gov
^ . Think El Paso Safe known to be an
Whatever may happen in Juarez, and his recent at
there is no suspicion here that any tlflcos and cleri
attack would be made on El Paso J his proposal to c
from the other side of the river, but slons granted bj
there is the greatest apprehension have given omin<
that at an outbreak one side would sistent rumors t
be followed by an outbreak on the anti-American bi
other. There are about J5,000 Mex- Villa. It is cer
leans in this city out of a total pop- of his most trust
ulation of 71,000. The military and plicated with the
civil authorities have made vigorous of his notorious
efforts to forestall trouble by arrest-' The nervous te
ing every Mexican who was srispected der has Increase*
of inciting fellow countrymen against i that many Amer
Americans. That such a system, ap-' that they woulc
pnrently organized, has been carried sundering of rela
on ror some time has been well Ington and the d
known. Numerous arrests have been | to a continuance
made, especially among the colony of atlon.
Vl'la adherents whlgh Is quite large.!
The police last night renewed their GOVERNOR OKI
efforts and detectives were sent Into
every sectfon of the city. They ar-i ?
rested nearly a score of Mexicans' Oov. Manning
suspected of being engaged In antl- follows, yesterda
American plotting. Augusta.
The most important arrest was;* "South Oarollr
that of Melchor Herrera. brother of p^thy and wantg
Oen. Luis Herrera. Herrera was arretted
as he crossed the internation- j ,wajr ma,r wo pe
your strloken pe
I
*
Lanca
LANCASTER, S. C. M
" CHINA CHANGES
ruxssr AGAIN A REPUBLIC
nn., March 22.?Fire
>art of Nashville late Monarchy Abandoned by Yuan Shi
n area of thirty-six Kal Who Resume* the Presidency.
damage at $2,500.
h, that of a negro, WILL ltltlXt* PEACE
Many persons receiv- i
les, were made home- Relieved That the Abandonment of
red houses were do-j - the Monarchy Will End the Revo,
i lution in China.
vas largely occupied
id hundreds of fami- Peking. March 22.?A State Dehomeless.
' partment mandate issued to-night anginating
in a small nounces the abandonment of the
i and Main streets, monarchy and resumption of the ltoa
gale, and burrtod i Public.
>eks wide and a mile me mandate says the revolution
f>0 houses were do- shows that the demand for a monig
the home of the archlal form of government is not
the Poor, and insti- unanimous and that therefore Yuan
fed; the Tulip Street Kai rejects the emperorship and
h and the Edgefield resumes the presidency.
The Imperial documents, the man- !
called out the mill- date adds, will be returned by Yuan I
ll-milltary organlza-j Shl Kai to the State Council, which
e sufferers, and the w,? reconvene as the Senate, propare
being guarded erl.v with the resumption or the Repossible
looting. j public.
ind river separates Dsn Shih Chang, who left the
on from the business Cabinet because of the monorchia!
,,,e- movement, signed the mandate as
of yarn, lighted and Secretary of state, having re-entered !
' into dry grass in a ",0 Cabinet.
ri the fire and a wind
les and hour fanned Hope for Early Pence.
ss Into a torrent of Washington. March 22. In the'
ilcklv caught a plan-\downfall of Yuan Shi Kni's plans for
ped from building to P'aking himself emperor hope |8 seen
in official and diplomatic circles here
ited that at least for parly restoration of peace in
re homeless as a re-j f hina and maintenance of the status
duo in the Far East during the Eumembers
of the Na- r?Ppan War.
rennessee. called out abandonment of the proposed
' were on duty in the monarchy occasioned no great sur- I
will remain there Pr,RP although there had been no relight
and for several port of action either to the State
*olInt nnri, Department or v.? i
'TiBion1 along the bor- Thirteen Injured When Passenger
tl to such an extent ' Train in Side-Swept l?y a Freight,
leans frankly admit Greensboro, N. C., March 19.? '
I prefer a definite One passenger was killed and thir- 1
tions between Wash- teen Injured, several seriously, when '
|e fa^to government Southern railway passenger train 43,
of the existing sitO- bound from WasliJngtnn for Charlotte.
N. C., was side-swept by a '
? freight train at Jamestown, N. C., |
KKRS ten miles south of Greensboro, early
AID TO AUCIL'HTA to-night. The injured we?e removed 1
to Greensboro by a special train sent
sent a telegram, as from here. , 1
iy to the mayor of Mr. M. R. Hyatt, of High Point. 1
N. C., was killed,
la extends deep sym- Numerous other passengers re- 1
to aid you. In what ce,vod injurle" of ft less serious nature,
besides the thirteen seriously
rform a service for , hurt i
ople?" i
",,u l"T"|*l " , %w " *> v^uiueue UPKRot,nK
tlon anrt rccent official dispatches Ha,,
n?e '"Elected that the step was Imminent.
The province of Yunnan,
a conference with rebelling against the overthrow of
Juarez. According the Republic. for months has 4>een
ley have proof that; maintaining Its Independence of the
tally been perfected r?ntral Government and report of
I his associates, to1 d,sc?ntent and revolt have come
El Paso. Two hun- ,h?ck and fast from the southern dfssald
to have been fr'^ts. In addition to this state of
cleus. According to affa<rs at home. Yuan has faced
s of Herrera antici- Powerful opposition to his plans from
soon as the rioting the outside. Great Britain. Japan
imhers of Mexicans and Russia have exerted pressure to
preve"1 ai,y governmental change at
h Not Relaxed. this time.
>ns adopted by the Y?an had expected to proclaim the
II authorities were monarchy and ascend the throne be-'
lay. They were in fore the beginning of the new year
f Gen. Funston's or- When the time came, however it
lal steps should tje,wns pronounced that the proclamation
Jts along the border bad been postponed Indefinitely and
'es and property in j unofficially it was stated that there
ffection of Gen. Luis'wou,d be no change In the governor
Carranza chieft- m?nt until the war was over. The'
i Chlhauhua. prospect of having China barred from '
Americans who ar? fb<* peace negotiations. In which the'
exloan affairs was 'final disposition of Kiaochow will be
rted revolts in Chi- determined, was probably an Impor-!
f shakes the power tan* factor in influencing the posfef
It would not hoi ponement.
e would be trouble1, s,npe Y"an dissolved the assem-j
is the headquarters b,v- bP virtually has been exercisin*
adherents and never ,hP Powers of a "lonareh but In it.,
inn lukewarm to the 1 relations with the outside world Chlna
has not ceased to be a Republic.
re state of Clen. Ob- Thp rhlna- and thp Minister. Dr.
mple are said to be Ko?- aPfNn thp na,tlP of ,hp R'PUbterests.
Gen. Oalles. ,,p and ,hp President,
ernor of Sonora. is Thp TTn,,wl s,atPS government ha^
Ohregon supporter i Plftyed no Part ,n the diplomatic extacks
upon the Glen- rhnnues at Peking recavdin* the procals.
combined with ^ed ?rPat Britain. Japan
onfiscate all correB-'and Ttussia SOUKht American co-opr
Huerta and Villa.; prat,on ,n thcir opposition but the
ms force to the per- | Washington administration declined
hat he is not only ?? express either approval or disapnt
sympathizes with Proval of Y"an'8 P,anstain
that a number
Led officers were Im- ONK PASSRXGRR KIM.K1)
bandit chief In some | IN WRWK ON Hb' THRRN
exploits. j
STER Nl
ARCH 24, 11)16
VIGOROUS ATTACKS ^VM'
ARE RESUMED;"'"
| OOO.
Germans Make Strong Assaults and GOES TO TIIF 1
Gain Ground West of Verdun Sa- ;
,h>nt- 11171 Had Solid Demon
\nd Also Votes of N
KUSSAN ASSAULTS VICIOUS ,ve He|llI?I1(.an^
Slav's Offensive oil Northern End of Washington, March 2
Eastern Line Made With Extraor- .... .
! , _ A man bill to provide for
dinary V iolence?Teutons Heport |
| iwpiuse with very Heavy Losses, j eu,eiius? ny 1110 gc
' an armor-plate factory
Infantry attacks northwest of Ver- to exceed $1 1,000,000 w
dun, preceded by u vigorous bom- thp Senate late to-day
bardment. have enabled the Germans!
to gain a foothold on the small hill ' ? " ' ' House n
of Harcouit, which lies just outside t<M> l,as sot asi(,p to-moi
he village of Malancourt, and be- sideration of the mea
tween that town and the eastern edge view of reporting it t<
of the Malancourt wood. promptly
The eneire sections of about two! _
and a half miles from the Avocourt1 mofr.itif s< nators s
wood to Malancourt has been sub- solidly, regarding
jected to a violent artillery bombard-1 the important measures
mcnt and several German infantry the National Preparedn
attacks but except in the immediate | nmy bpIn|? hngtoned to
vicinity of Malancourt the Germans j
it,...,. , , Nine Progressive Rentih
were held by the French fire and |
were unable to advance. 1 "ie majority in v<
Northeast of Verdun, around Don. bill. Tliey were Sena
aumont and Vaux, an intense artil-1 Clapp, ruirmins, Gron
lery bombardment Is still in pro-; Xorris. Poindexter. S
gross. The infantry forces, however, ... ,
W orks.
have remained inactive in this dis- |
tidet j Passage of the mea
From the west, in the forest of i Ho,15p is regarded as a
fe Argonne, the French are heavily ministration leaders are
shelling the Malancourt wood, which bring it up soon after pi
is in the hands of the Germans, and | . ..
... ? army re-organization a
at various points in the forest have
bombarded German organizations. ,ion hills.
especially at Four Departs, La Fllle The hill, which has
Mortp and Montfaucon. I the Administration a
The Russian offensive against the Haniels. was bitterly opi
Germans in northwest Russia has in- ?ra1 Republican Senatoi
creased in intensity and fighting is In mitteo hearings on the i
progress day and night. The latest oors of ,he Bethlehem
official statement from Russian gen- Steel Companies, two i
eral hadquarters says that desperate concerns which furnish
infantry fighting is proceeding north Government, appeared a
of the town of Postavy, where the was made that their ]
Germane launched violent counter?; have to be dismantled a
11 t O nl/ a In n r, ~ ? * a ? * ? f'.AVAnn monl' s ~
...v?v?o ... ??n nunupi lci uisionge me rIU|,mi
Russians from trenches which they nPSS- leaving no source
had previously captured. Respecting "10 Navy s immediate ne
this operation the Rerlln communi- '1nK'"on Senate
cation says at this point the Rus- Senators Penrose. Olivei
sfans delivered their heaviest attack l'?dge.
and their loss was extraordinarily Senator Swanson, in si
high. "even for the number of Rus- bill, delared that threa
slans in action." armor-plate makers to :
The Russians captured three lines price $200 a ton if the r
of the German trenches on the south-, ed furnished a strong
western shore of Lake Naroez, where its favor,
it is officially declared fighting is de- j "if these companies
veloping in favor of the Russian enforce this exaction nc
forces. Here the Russians, despite "thev will he able in th
"asphyxiating gases and a murderous ioSR this bill passes, to t
fire." forced three lines of wire en- j mands their greed and
tanglements and made their gains in dictates. We are now i
a series of fierce hand to hand en- where the more urgent <
counters. armor-plate the greater
The Russian war office also ofli- acted by private concert
cfallv announces the capture of Ispa- Senator Swanson said
ban, Persia, after an engagement, ministrations were res
An unofficial report received hv way ,'he absence of compet
of Rome and London says that the the three private comp
Austrians have abandoned Czerno- From 1907 to 1913. tl
witz, capital of Hukowina, company received contr
Had weather again has broken .">88 tons, the Carnegie
over the Austro-Ttalian front but it the Mldvale 21 .171 tons
has not put a stop to the violent " Ml competition ha
bombardments. ceased," he added, "w
The Austrians have delivered sur remarkable, during all
prise atacks with infantry aeainst the Government did all
Italian positions at various points, prevent competition be
hut these, according to Rome, have concerns and to encoiir
everywhere been repulsed. enter a combination.
The famous "Galloper lightship" "While pretending to
at the mouth of the Thames has poly in the courts an
been sunk. According to a Lloyds halls, those in charge
report, the lightship was torpedoed eminent were exerting
ence to supnress compr
INFANTRY ATTACKS loss the Government s
rK.iSKI) AT VERI>r\ ,n,s n<*eount astour
Senator Weeks, of M
offered a substitute v
Paris. However, Announces Heavy hayft authorlled fhe f
Artillery Exchanges. fho Nayy (o enfer ,nto
contract with the Rcth
Paris. March 22.?No infantry at-! vale ami Carnegie compi
tacks were made in the Verdun front ply all the armor-plate
Inst night, the war office announced price six per cent, in ex
this nfternoon. The Germans bom- maintenance, depreclatio
harded Malancourt heavily and there : stf<ute, after considers
were artillery exchanges of less In- was rejected 60 to 25.
tensity east of the Meuse. other amendments were ]
The statement follows: rejected.
"West of the Meuse the artillery Senators Oliver and
1uel was very lively in the region of sist??d that th? proposed
Malancourt. Esnes and Hill 204. A Government was confi:
particularly violent fire was directed that it would force the
against the Haucourt Hill. manufacturers out of h
"East of the Meuse the bombard- time when they are mo<
ment was intense in the region of the Government.
Vaux and Damloup. Senator Tillman declai
"There wore no Infantry actions, lire was not des'gned to
The night was calm in the remainder! vate manufrcturers out
of the front." and predicted that it w
&. : ,tfi
.
:ws
$1.50 A YEAH.
? AUGUSTA BRAVELY
r,=; FACES FUTURE
HOUSE U?ss of From Sl\ to Ton Million
Dollars in <treat Fire There On
atic Support Wednesday.
ine Progress-1
K KM F.I' yiltlil/V t'NDKR WAV
1. The Till- Husiness Men liegin Steps to Provide
the erection h?r Xewly and Also to Look Out for
Development to Replace District.
ivernment of
at a cost not Augusta, (la., Marc 2:>.?Augusta
as passed by turned bravely about to-day and bebv
a vote of Kan to plan for replacing the ravages
aval commit- of *'ie *'re wh'cli last night caused a
row for con '?SS est'matt'd at from $5,000,000 to
row oi con $7 000.000, There are many, howsure
with a eVor who are inclined to place the
0 the Mouse estimate at $10.000,000. The total
loss is a mere guess and nothing deupported
the "nlte w'll be known until a final
? checking up of accounts. This is
it as one of
the second disaster to Augusta witht
included in jn jasj j,ajf dozen years. It. has
less program just overcome the loss caused by the
1 completion disastrous flood of several years ago
licans joined an<l was fast developing?and nor
coines the great fire,
iting for the , ,
I The business men to-day began
fois TtnraJi. 'marshaling their resource ??-.
nn. Kenyon. the losses. Relief plan- for the
terling and thousands of homeless people were
given early consideration. The first.
event of the dav was a meeting of citv
sure in the ,, . , . ,
council when ample provision was
ssnred. Ad made for the destitute. At noon
planning to hundreds of business men met at a
issage of the mass meeting and it was determined
nd immigra-' Augusta must rebuild at once
on an even larger scale. The people
are undaunted and have disthe
approval pjay0(j the very finest hind of spirit,
nd Secretarv There has been no shirking and evposed
by sev- pry man js doing his duty. The lossps.
At com- ps touch every class of society
measure offi- .n this citv. There is a kindred feeland
Midvale ^ among a?
of the three Much for Relief,
armor to the ^ a conference to-day a raovend
the threat n1Pnf was set going to raise a fund
plants would jgp port to prosecute relief work,
s soon as the ^ was announced late to-night that
on the bus:- $15 000 had already been subscribed,
of suprdv foi -phe rilling sentiment at a series of
eds. The op- ronfprences was that \ugusta will
was led by ahle to care fo'r the destitute,
' T-ippitt and although gifts from other sources
will not lie rejected,
upporting the Acting upon the suggestion of
ts of private bankers. Mayor J. R. T.ittloton deldvance
their clared a moratorium for to-day, boil
ea sure pass- cause many citizens were unable to
argument in meet their financial obligations. The
moratorium may be extended for sovare
able to eral days.
>w," he said. A careful survey shows that 30
e future, un- blocks, covering 118 acres, were
nake any de- swept bare by the fire of yesterday.
self-interest An unofficial count gives the numn
a situation ber of homes destroyed at 526. Over
mr needs for 13 0 business houses were burned. The
the price ex- total value of the houses was about
is." $2,250,000.
I former Ad- three companies of state miponsihle
for lltia were withdrawn from service
lllnn ? "
....... (lui.iuK ??-? ?.? poiico nave the situanies.
at ion under control.
te Bethlehem This afternoon several hundred
acts for 23.- workmen were put to work clearing?
23.041 and up the debris about the burned buil 1.
he said. ings. Dynamite was used to blow
s absolutely up several walls on Broad street.
hat is more large number of convicts will b>
these years brought in from the roads to assist
it could to in clearing up the streets,
tween these Many Visitors Here,
age them to Thousands of visitors from many
sections of Georgia and South Cnroassail
mono- lina poured in?o Augusta to-day to
d legislative view the ruins and all hotels were
of the Gov crowded to-night. The near-beer satheir
influ- loons were closed to-day and all tin- .
tition. The occupied buildings, including the old
mstained on federal building, were thrown open
iding." to-night for the accommodation of
assachusetts. the homeless families,
irhicli would Only four firemen were injured
Secretary of during the fire. They were resting
a flve-vear well at local hospitals to-night and
lehem. Mid- all will recover, it was said,
inics to sup- Final figures would indicate that
needed at a about 34.000 bales of cotton were
cess of cost, destroyed, causing a loss of approxn.
The sub- imately $1,800,000.
ble debate. No figures are obtainable as to the
Numerous amount of insurance carried on the
proposed and properties destroyed. The insurance
adjusters began to arrive in Augusta
Penrose in- to-day. The adjustment will he mado
action of th",?"': rapidly as possible, it was said,
scatory ?n<! ( hike Cyclone licit,
private plat- blocks fn the residence
uslness at a cC'ja of Augusta to-day presented
?t needed by /-" ;'..>pcarauce of a windswept prai.nd
the bare walls of six busiI
ed the mens- "1f" s blocks bear silent testimony of
run the pri- "Ccent years,
of husines- The fir? which raged for more thaa
ould not. ! (Continued on Page 8)
i
