RICHMOND, VA? FIJI DAY, MARCH 24, 191(5.
To Buy or Seil
> 1
Remember the Easiest Way.T-D
IVant Ads?Randolph One !
PAGES.
-FAIR
FUNSTON PUZZLED AS TO EXACT STATUS
OF AFFAIRS NOW PREVAILING IN MEXICO
WARE FOR NEW
INFANTRY ATTACKS
3ermans Train Guns on French
Front of Bethincourt, Le Mort
Homme and Cumiercs.
AAY TRY TO PIERCE LINES
ieavy Fighting Continues in
East From Region of Riga
Southward.
Except on the front near Oomm"
our* and the F!ctliiine-Lu Hai'see road.
? here the P.ritlsb gained some advan
iis-p;, in fights against tlie. firmans, mo
nfantry attacks have taken place
long the line in Kraunc anrl I'.elgiuni.
ICRvy fighting. however. continue? be
wcen the Germans ami Russians on
he eastern front from Mie region of
<ica southwiif'l.
The, Germans northwest of Verdun
r?! rontinuing their violent. shelling of
he Mnlancourt sector. ami agatn have
rained their guns on the Kreneli front
>f Rethlncourt. T.e Mor* Homme and
Jumleres. probably preparatory to
re*h Infantry attack" In an ernieavor
o break through the line when the
nomenl seems propitious.
The French have not slackened tb*ir
>ombardment of the Malanronrt wood
row positions in the Arconne 'orest,
<r,d al?i .irr shelling heavily Gertnan
'osing;;* and the roads and railways
irld bv ?he Germans in thi eastern part
?f the Argonne.
The bombardment t" th< i? rt}>c? of
t'erd in. ar well as in the v. ??? i -
rion. to the ??list <?,' flte fnrtrep h.^s
ncreaK?d in Intenait*.
0|.< m>MA\v
Mil'. 1.1 .M >1 \NS
llea\y masse:, <>f Russians ???? pressi
ng the Germans from the Riga dis
rict southward f?>r a distance of sev
enty mile*' While they have Rained
?ornc advantages the Lussian War ?'f
ice admitc that ? ut J? of Lake lires
wiatv the i>i riiiflnh recaptured trenches
hat the Uu.-siar.s .u?d taken the |.r?-? 1 -
ms nigh.. Th< Russians. have :??.??in
pierced the oppo.d'iu 1 n-* mi th< Jacob
stadt oe.ctor
According to in i. . man ofli? nil
ornmnnft a'. n>n "not ??.on t!.?, smallest
idvnntag> against the ji.sliHketi Gei -
man defense" h.'s in ? n obtained any
where iti this great offensive. which the
Russians h.o r undertaken in North -
wf'Ft Russia. While l-ierlin declares
that their vicious attacks in th< neigh
borhood of Postavy. eastward of the
railway between I.?vin.sk and \ i|na,
have been r?.pulsed. Russia officially
announces that the fighting thei< con*
tlnues. and that southwest of Lake
Vurocf, the Russian troop* again have
advanced under a violent bombardment
Tli e AuttriafS combating the 11 'is
ss-.ms in Gallcia and the Italians along
the Austro-Ttalian frontier, appear to
be holding their lines without change.
A fourth German war loan has been
closed, a fid a li<*rlin dispatch says the
amount will exceed tiie aggregate of
!he seeono loan, hut will be less thnn
that of the> third. This would mean
that between S.ono.oor-.oon atirl 12.000.
uOO.OPO marks hare been obtained, the
second loan having realized S.979.600.000
marks and the third loan 12.1 tJO.OOO.ftOO
? nark*
A im.KXT IIOM IIA HUM KM'
TO HAST OF MKLSK IIIVKIt
I'Alt!S. March 1*3.?The French ofll
i-! a I statement published this morn in?
says that during the night a violent
bombardment took place to the cast of
the Mouse River. To the west of the
Mouse the tire diminished in intensity,
and th'- general situation is unchanged.
The French War (>fiW:e statement to
day reads.
"West of tile UivtM- Mouse the bom*
bardmcnt diminished last night. The
enemy did not renew his attacks on the
little hill <>f Ilam otirt < about one kilo
meter southwest of MalatuourO. part
of which we hold.
"Hast of the Mense the bombardment
!;as continued witli violence at several
points on our front.
"fn the Woevre ;here has been no
important development to report, with
the exception of an intermittent can
nonading."
Young Dentist, in Stupor From
Self-Administered Drug, in
Custody of Detectives.
FATHER-IN-LAW HIS VICTIM
District Attorney's Office Thinks
Case Will Be One of Most
Sensational in Years.
Nb\\ YORK. March 23 In ;i stupor
? from self-administered drugs. hr. Ar
thur Warren Waite a dentist. ar.d well
known as a t?-nri" player, was in the
custody of detectives to-night, anrl w ill
he charged with the murder here on
March ]; of his fatlnr-ln-liiw, .John R.
Peck, a millionaire drt>:* maniifa<'t';ror
of r;ran>i Rapid.*-. M'< h. With the ar
1 rest of Dr. Walte the. district attorneys
? office believes it has uncovrrfil what
' will [.rove one of the most sensational
vases in many years
Perk, who Is reputed to have left art
estate valued at about S1 .."VDO.ono. and
hi.) wife. died within six week? while
( visiting their daughter and her husband
, at their Riverside Dtlve apartm" n t s
here Ry th? will of Mr. Peck his
estate was equally divided between
i Mrs Walte and Percy peek, of Crand
: Rapids. his son. Mrs Waite now is
; seriously 111 at Grand Rapids. Dlrtrlrt
Attorney Swann said to-day he had
learned vh* had her?, instructed b
] Watte to make a will in his fav?-.r.
When detective^ went to tr.r Waite
apartment to-daj the> found the youtig
drnit't in bed. a'?t> 11ent!> Breaf
pain. Itr .* \ Moore, the physician
who attended P?rk vlille he was he-,,
deel.tred Waite was suffering from
overdoses of narcotic.' Considerable
quantities of three different drugs wt.ro
found in the dentist's clothing. and h?
, 'aid he had taken ore of carh kind
beginning yesterdnv morning. Asked
how much hr h.vl taken, he replied.
, ' nleritv
>\ \lil" IN sit,.,,,, \v|||-\
nis'utM 'r Arrniivw vititi\r..?
District Attoriie-, Swiitiii went tu the
hoiiKc- with a slenourHphiM- to take, a
statement from the -i? t.i;t Waite
jw.i- r a M .ipor I ? M....| . said III.-;
patiei ! Jii ohahl . tto ;..| J-.r ul.;,. go
it" . ourt to-in or row.
The arrest of Walte was ordered to
day after an invest ligation by District
(Attorney i^T.mn based upon the lesult*
I of an autopsy on Peck's hodv. which
reveled strong symptoms of poison,
j The use was placed in the. hands of
i the Brand Jury to-day after Dr. Meiler.
;a negro maid at Dr. Waite's home. and
j Dr. Jacob Cornell, a wealthy relative
jo. tlie Pecks, had told stories to the
, district attorney which se^tned to hirn
> to warrant beginning proceedings
jisainst the dentist.
; The grand Jury investigation will
.continue for several days Witnesses
j f t om ?."rand Rapids and Detroit are
expected h?re on Saturday. Waije will
j he taken to the Tombs and held without
j hall, charged with murder Sp the. first
I ilcure*
I rhc maid, whom the Sta.t^ regards as
| one of its most important witnesses.
I told the district attnrnev to-day that
i r?r. Walte came Into the kitchen wli?r?
I "he .vas preparing dinner and poured
_ something' out of a hottle, that lie told
j her was medicine Into soup, which
| afterwards was served to Peck at th<i
? dentist's home. This occurred, ehe said,
j about two days before the druggist's
j death.
i WAITI-; A I.SO PI TS
??mediums" iv tka
Siie noticed that Peek ate only a.
little of the .soup, and expressed a de
sire for a cup oi- tea. Dr. Walte went
^ith her to the kitchen, she. said, say
ing. !? atlier didn't like the .soup, j'lj
put somd more medicine in the tea."
Peck drank the tea. she said.
Dr. Cornell said he visited Peck on
Saturday afternoon. March 11. and
talked with him for about an hour. JTe
seemed at that time to be in good
health, the physician declared. While
he was there. Dr. Cornell said, he sarr
Dr. Waite go into another room to
"hich Peck had retired with a bottle
(Continued on Second Pago7)
Buy-right Hints for
the Thrifty Housewife
There was a day when any
thing priced at a low figure was
looked upon with suspicion
Anything at a cheap price,
quoth the consumer, must ne
cessarily he cheap in quality;
for quality and low prices
hadn't heen hooked up as team
mates in those days, to pull to
gether for the benefit of the
buyer.
Now, absolutely the opposite
condition is almost the univer
sal rule. The answer to this is
increased population of the
country, creating a tremendous
demand for goods; and volume
Low Prices and Good Values j
Team-mates Now-a-Days
of sales lias become the barom-j
eter of low prices, with values
equably sustained. Improve-;
men I, expediency, facilitation
and increased knowldege in
manufacture made necessary
by increased production has
been the natural outcome of the
situation, that to-day offers
better values at lower prices
than at any other period in the
history of industrials.
Keep a watchful eye on the
merchant's advertising in The
Times-Dispatch, and you will
get daily enlightenment on the
subject.
JfOTK?Tlif Tlmc?-I)lNpntr]i Riiarnnlrm n mnrkrd Mvlng on fvrry imrchanr
made tn Tltchmnnil Mnrr* thn1 mlvrrtlur their loncNl pricr? In tlicnc page*.
TliirtI Cavalry startiiifi <>n tlicit
way from I'ort Sain Houston to Mc.v
iro In search of ViJJa.
LOG BOOKS OF CRUISER
(RE PICKEOUPONBESGH
I'roperlt of if. M. S. Cumberland.
They May Ho K\blence of Naval
Kn^jiypiiipiit.
II KING IS l!i;.\HI) Oil- (OAST
Hrit isti Vessel Mas Hern Duitij: I'a
trol IMity in Atlantic Since Ger
man Ships Came Into Hampton
Hoads?Kmbassy Not Alarmed.
N11111** ? i. ]\ \ , M ti i? i i r * o ^
loir book:. from th?- Jbitish cruiser
Cumberland wer< pb-ked >i i> on t!i<*
beach nc ir ? (to Coa-t 'inn! station .it
Chicwmii-MM-.i. .V C, to-day by f'an.
tain f.. I':. VnJvu. ?>i the ?."?.??1 Guard
Service.
The books m.'d I it-ii >1, ,t bundle, and
ea.-h was marked *11. M. S. Cumberland.
Atlantic .Mjuadroi!." Two of them were
| evidently used in the cnfiitKi-rooni. :\g
one contained an entry referring- to the
number ?>f the oncine-rnon crew.
'I here were h number of entries ;n
tizurcs, nn?J the books-: arc believed to
ha ? been Intended :?*- rode messages.
I If- dates under u hii'li each entry is
mad.- ."t'p.arcd confusing. According
to the dates in the books, the last entry
way made in
The book? were badi> w a:er-soaked,
and the nritiriK on F?-vcr.ii panes in
them was almost complet.. ,.
sited.
UK A VI I1UIM; IIK.\ 1(11
OI--I' MlltTII I'A HOI.I.N A Itiwr
Keport:} from alonii the coast state
th.it heavy tiring h*-ard about fi\
days ngn and ai(.<iti on Tiicm1s\ Tl <;
findinK of the loc books on tin- bta<h'
has caused all coast frnard-' alonu 'in'1
coast to be on the lookout fo< other'
siriic ->f a possible naval eiitrafic.iict;'.
or marine disaster.
The Cumberland. th- Uistialian
cruiser Sydney and a small French'
cruiser about the size of an ?r??rl - i
can cunboat have appeared oft the'
^ irR:nin coast frequently since the'
German cruiser Kit.-! Friedrieh rame
into Hampton Hotitis, a year aj;o They
made their appearance. a?ain when the
Kronprinz Wilhehn also came into port.!
and have been lying off the coast i
almost continuously since the Critish:
steamer Appam came into Hampton
Koads in charpe of a German prize!
crow.
The Sydney and the Cumberland <ii '
appeared several days ;,?o. :,,.d v.-r,
reported as having cone on .i hunt for'
the German raider Moewo which can-'
tured the Appam. The S>d.u? W.,V
last, reported as having put in at'
Havana for coal. The Cumberland hasl
not been heard from.
The Sydney and Cumberland hereto-i
fore have been supplied with coal at
Halifax or by colliers sent out from
that poit
iiooks ami-: ritoiiAiiL)
DIM'A ItllDll It 1.4 (Mills,
\\ A SH I.VGT? ?.\*. Miirrli 23?,\l ntr>.
Tirltish embassy to-nijrht it was s;,|d
that the Cumberland was cruising on
this side of the Atlantic, and might'
have been off the North Carolina coast
recently. Kmbassy officials appai entiv
were not alarmed o.v. lite llmlinir o*f
the Iok books, and suggested that the
books probably were discarded rn onls,
that had been thrown overboard.
CREWS REFUSE TO SAIL
Win. I More Definite Arrangement*
ttenclied With l.ovemiiienf for
Safety of \ esselx.
Tin; II AC i.e. March .Via London. '
March 23>. -At a it. Aiuster
dam. held under the auspices of the I
Sailors' Union, the i-r-tvs of half a ?
dozen ocean-sroinp; steamships due to J
fall to-day resolved by an overwhelm? j
in?; majority not to Join their :diip? i
until more, definite arrangements had1
been reached with the government for'
the safety of the vessels. Thin dc
j cision affected also thu Holland-Anteri- i
can lane, whose ship Xtciiwe Amstei- i
j dam is schedub d to sail to-iiiirlit.
I A dispatch from Hotterilam. under '
I Wednesday's date, said that oflicials {
| of the Holland-American l.ine had in- |
j formed the Associated Press represon
; tatlve in that city thai the line's ships J
I would continue to sail as scheduled.
J unless prevented from dolm; so by the J
I refusal of tho crews to muster,
Eight Army Airmen
Are Accounted For
? ?
Lieutenant Gorrcll Rescued Af
ter Being Without Food
jor 24 Hours.
? (VtLUMHCS, N. M .March 23.?\i*ith
the receipt ??1" to-da>'s reports nil t?f
i he c-:k>it army aviators who left hero
late Sunday 10 ily to 1'asaf tirandes
have been accounted for.
Lieutenant (Joriell missel his ?;i\,
am] was forced to alii;l>t because of
a leaking fuel tank.
lie madft his way in a Million nail,
and there left a note tcllinj; of his
whereabouts. When rescued he had
been without food for twenty-four hoiirc.
? >?i board the motor trucks that
; rescucd him were, several tanks of
pasoline. and with some tools tiorrell
filled his tank and rose in a flight,
? which he predicted would end in t 'asaa
J Orandes in an hour.
U. S. TO DEFINE POSITION
Will Issue Complete Statement f?">?
Informal ion of Nations
of lite Uoilil.
FOll.M NOT DF.FIMTFl.Y FIXF.I)
May lie Addressed as Circular >1ein- !
oramluiii to Powers?Vol 1'tilikel.v !
That It Will Furnish Groundwork
for \ew International Law.
WASHINGTON-, March :i3.?The United
Srat-s ?oon will issue for the informa
tion of the nations of tho world a
?omplete statement of Its position on
vl.o . oiwlit* I of submarine warfare aini
of merchant ships. It has
nut |.(??mi definitely determined just j
what form the announcement will take.;
l?:it it is eommlered not unlikely that(
a circular memorandum ma> he ad-!
(i:o>s<vi to the powers
Whatever the form of the dcclara-!
tun. it will serve to guide the course'
of thi.j uovernmcnt in future negotia
tions The United States will stand
unalterably upon the principles al
ready laid down.
Coming from the most powerful of,
the neutral nationn, at a time when Jill!
the other srcp.t world powers arc at
war, the pronouncement may fu in tall,
the groundwork for a new interna-j
tional law, to l.u developed after the
war. which will provide for the. usel
of submarines in naval warfare. Thai
law now does not take into eonsidera-'
lion the activities of submarines oi the
possibilities of their use.
it is considered improbable- in of
ficial anil diplomatic circles that the
announcement will be made before the;
political situation in Germany resulting
from the retirement of Admiral von i
Tirpit;: has been clarified. It is not he- ?
licve.i that the administration would!
be willing to issue a statement defin
ing its position ;? t a time when such1
.in action might l?e used in a political
way l?y factions in a nation with wh'di
it is negotiating.
TO ? OX'I'A I \ IM<:riMl'l(l\
OK OKKKNSIVI-: A It .11 A MKNT ,
That a definition of defensive arma-j
mcnt will occupy a prominent posi
tion in the declaration :s virtually cei-<
tain. l.imitatious may he dseeribed. j
There have been various indications in'
official iiuarters that the I'nited States]
might i educe, ihe present limit, which!
provides that merchant ships may j
carry guns at the stern of not rnorei
than six inches in caliber ami still be'
defensively armed. There has been no;
suggestion that the (Jutted States
would decide that all armament is
tiff en si ve armament
Instructions given to the commanders
of armed merchantmen also probably
will be considered in ihe pronounce
ment The safely of passengeis audi
e'ews of .steamships slopped by sub
marines Will be touched upon The
United States will insist upon proper
precautionary measures being taken,
and niny define whal thosi measures
should be.
The right oi n merchant ship 'o tiro
at a submarine which warns il will
occup\ a section. The I'nited States
has contended that a merchant ship
has 11 right to defend itself, hut that
tho moment tin defense or flight starts
the vessel loses all that immumtv fvoin;
attack to which she was entitled
The subject of contraband and non
contraband and cargo, both in neutral;
and in belligerent ships may he dis-i
cussed, along with various other de
tails. !
Tension Over Mexican \
Situation Relaxes
in Official Circles
Secretary Baiter's Reports:
of Day's Events on Bor- j
dcr of Reassuring
Nature.
WASHINGTON. Maivli ? T^n^ion i
ov.?r the Mexican situation xf?l her*.- I
to-daj iii tin- ,il 'Mi'-o of olliciai con- j
tarnation of the report that 'J.000 Car- ?
ranza troops at Chihuahua. under lans I
Hcrrera. had joined Villa Conllietiiig >
unofficial advhe* from the border,
however. caused the State Department
to telegraph American consuls for im- ;
mediate report* as to tlio situation.
Slow wir>* communication may delay '
the replies.
Secretary Maker's reports on the j
?lay's events 011 the liorder were before ?
President Wilson when he returned to
night from a day's trip to Philadel
phia. They were of a reassuring na- i
ture, although they contained nothing
positive as to the reported revolt.
The aceumulatIon of d* riinls of the
Herrera revolt during the day; the safe ?
arrival of the army motor trucks with i
the expeditionary forces, the restora- '
tion of radio communication with
General Pershing's forces, and the 1
satisfactory progress of diplomatic!
negotiations with the de facto govern- '
ment relieved a somewhat ollicial 1
an\iet> .
A denial front the <*arrunza auihori- ;
ties at .1 uarez that Herrera had re
volted was presented to Secretary j
Lansing l>*" Kliseo A rredimdo, amhas-I
sndor-designate of the de facto govern- '
ment, who called to continue the con
ference with Counselor Polk on the j
proposed protocol between the two J
governments concerning: the op<-rationH >
of American troops now in Mexico.
.NO HKPI.Y FROM CAItltW/.A
AN 'I'd t SI) III-' It \ II.IKlAOv '
No reply has \ et come from General ;
Car ranza to the reijuesi that Amerieaii .
troops be permitted to use the Mexican
Northwestern Pailwa; lleports from '
the bordei said General Pershing: al- '
ready was making use of part of the '
line. War Department advices did not j
mention this. OHieials. howover. said 1
it. was possible General Pershing bad '
reached a limited agreement with local 1
Mexican officials.
The tension produced by the reported ?
revolt in favor <?[ Villa was manifested r
in Conqresr. Leaders, however, ex
erted et'foit:- to check disctisston
Senator Stone, of the Foreign l{ela
tions Committee. objected to the r?-ad
ing of a t?bgram offering the services
of 400 volunteers, presented 1>> Senator
Johnson, of South Dakota. lie said
nothing should be done to make more |
acute an already acute situation, j
Senator Sherman made no effort to i
call up his resolution, introduced yes
lerda>. lo tssin- a call for Mi.ftflO vo.lun
t? CI S.
Many members of Congress iii<iusied
at the War and State Departments dur
ing the day as t ?? advices from the
border. .ICepreseutat iv??? Tague, of
Massachusel ts. telegraphed the Adju
tant-General of th>- Massachusel ts Na
tional Guard that the belief was grow?
m:w niti. i:\ns v mi iti-rrt it.\?
v til sill I'll I.K.N ,\ 1 ri.'K* Is \?ii ...?
March -l .'j -'J I'liuiie Mudfoou Z'ti.
ing- that the militiamen would be sum
moned for service, and asked what
force his Slate roultl muster.
IIXI.V XATIO >' \ I. (il AUII
cot i.ii in-: HKi.ir.D i i'o\
Soiin- officials believe (general Kuns
ton probably has pointed out that If
the report "f the disaffection of the.
Chihuahua garrison it*, true, other do
faeto government troops may follow
tli?A load. and the American expedi
tionary forces l>e Kcriously besot. In
that event, it if regarded ;is likely that
General Kunaton will order all avail*
able troops from the border to
strengthen the lines of communication,
and. if necessary, support the advance
columns. As the border patrol could
not be relaxed without imperiling
small towns on the American sit! .
these troops would have to he replaced
as quickly as possible, ami only the
National ("luard could he relied upon
for this duty.
A new problem was presented to
day with the receipt of General Funs
ion's request for eight additional aero
planes and aviators. Officials had this
matter under advisement to-night.
While there are several other army
aeroplanes available, it was consider* d
doubtful if they were serviceable for
the work, Mepresentati ves of aero
plane manufat.-l uriug companies were
consulted, and it is understood that
new machines can be purchased trn
mcdialelv.
Already the cost of the expedition
into Mexico and border patrol duty has
sevrolv taxed departmental funds. A
tush appropriation of S8.fl07.nf?r> was
asked to-day of Congress.
shipments iii'.im;
iii r ri'.tii'iiitAUiiA
?State 1'op.it tment official-' to-day said
that the amount of ammunition for
CartHii/.a troops had been greatly over
estimated tn reports front the border.
It was disclosed also that shipments
dulv consigned to C'nrriinza officials,
but going to territorx insuiliclently
guarded asrainst Villa raideis were he
ing held up temporarily.
The Navy Department wa? still with
out <lireet word from the Tampico dis
trict. A radio message to-night or
dered the commanders of the battle
ship Kentucky, on her way to Mexican
waters, and ?>f the Kim boat M.ichlas.
oiv Tampico, to report promptly. Un
official tepot ts have asserted that anti
\merican demonstrations hud occurred
t here.
WILSON IN PHILADELPHIA
^liikr" Uriel' \ Kit In < oiihiiIi llli
Oculist: Tit en Calls on Ills Sl?trr.
Mr*. A n lie Howe.
I'HII ADKI.I'ltlA. March Presi
dent Wilson paiil a brief visit to Phila
delphia to-da> to consult his o<ultst.
Mis i-yeti have been troubling him
Klightl> recently. He was accompanied
by Mrs. Wilson.
The President's automobile as it was
driven through crowded streets to the
oculist's office was preceded b\ a
platoon of mounted police. When the
President and Mrs. Wilson came out
lliev were greeted villi cheers, which
the President acknowledged li> raising
his hat.
The President >islted his sister, Mrs.
Anne llowo. and Iter daughter. Anno
Cochran, and later tooK an automobile,
ride.
HAS REVOLTED IS
MATTER OF DOUBT
General Bell Confirms, and
Gavira Gets Telegram
of Denial.
WASHINGTON OFFICIALS
PERPLEXED BY REPORTS
No Definite Information of Prog
ress Made by Pershing's
Forces.
HA ITI,K REPORT FROM lONSVfi
Kcrlmes ("nrran/.a l'orccs Oefeaf
Outlaws at Santa Gertrudes,
Near Xamiquipa.
SAX AXTOXIO, TK X.. March ".'u - ?
With <> from General Hell
before him confirming his report of
yesterday that General Talis* llcrroni
had revolted with 'J.^OO m?Mi of tin:
1 Carranxa garrison in vChihuahua and a
I collection or evidence from unofficial
i sources dcn> ir.p tho allseed revolt,
i General Kutiston was still puzzled to
| 11 iktit as to the exact status ??f affairs
I in Mexico.
General Hell did not i^ivr additional
'facts concerning Herrera's reported
'action, nor did he say how the report
! v?is ??onti rine.d.
^ To offset General ltcll> statement.
mcssascs from Kl I'a ho quoted General
I Gavira. commander at Juarez. and
| Andreas Garcia. Mexican consul at Kl
| I'.i.so. in denial. The Carranza consul
!nt l.are<lo also submitted a denial, and
| Samuel Helden. counsel here, for Car
! ran/.a, made public a message he. said
the had received from General Herrera
| in Chihuahua dated to-day. Iti this
I message Herrera denied that he had
! revolted, adding that, on the. contrary,
1 lie whs "rcnd.v to tight Villa tin ctier
Igetically as possible."
| General Punston transmitted to the
? War T>epartinent the message from
| General Itell.
; General Kunston also n'.if without
) definite information of the procrress
j made, by the expeditionary force under
'command of General Pershing. The
! day passed without a report from the
1 Held, the fourth since the department
I commander here lias been advised of
| developments south of Casas Grandes.
i Mcsshrcs were sent to General Per
'shine: during the day instructing hiin
, t?i report oftcuer. and advising him ot
| Herrera s reported activitten.
i II Klin Kit A nt'.MKS HIMOU
; OK IIKI'OHT TO GAVm.V
Kl. I 'ASO. TKX., March Ua.?Word
that Genera! L,uis Herrera. of the Chi
huahua garrison, had not deserted to
Villa was received by General Gavlra,
of the Juarez garrison, to-day In a
telegram from General Herrera him
self
CAItRA.VZA FORCES DEFEAT
V1M.A AT SAA'TA GERTniDnS
t!L PAiiO, TKX., March 23.?Andrews
Garcia, Mexican consul, made publio
to-night a telegram which he said ho
had received from General Gavlra, an
nouncing that the Carranza forces had
defeated Villa to-day at Santa Ger
trudes. near Xamiquipa.
According to the announcement,
Villa, after leaving several dead and
wounded in the field, abandoned 100
j horses and fled to Kl Osp.
: i ohli:.s of (.i TiKinu:/.
|\ I'i nsi IT OF villa
I J.OL l'.\SO, TICX, March '.'3.?General
Havini. of the Juarez garrison, re -
oeivoil word to-day that in the battle
between Villa and Colonel Cnno near
' Na:nif|'iip.i last Monday, the Villa.
' troops were routed and fled toward
I Natniftuipa. and that forces of General
l;uis Gutierrez went in pursuit.
I According to a telegram, General
Gavira sa> s he received, the battle
took place several kilometers south of
Xnminulpa anil lasted several hours.
According to the telegram, Villa Is now
'in the v'< inity of Namlquipa.
Forces' are advancing upon Villa in
j command of Colonel i.'ano from Las
jCruces; Colonel Salas from Rabricora;
Colonel Hernandez from Tepehuanez;
j General Garza from Sauta Clara, an?l
(General Cavazos from Temosaclc.. ths
i telegram added.
' Kiitst ( ompi.f.tf s i onv
OK CKOX-SIMi 411* DORDKH
Kl, PASO. TKX., March --3.?The fol
lowing dispatch from an Associated
rrts.s correspondent at tiio front in
Mexico N the tirst complete story of
the crossing of the border of the puni
tive expedition sent to a\?ngn the.
Columbus massacre:
, Headquarters United States Punitive
Kxpedition. Near Oolonia Dublan. Chi
huahua. Mexico, March -- <l>y wagon
train to Columbus. N". M.. March '.'3).?
Reaching here by x forced march that
j demonstrated the endurance of the
'American soldier and amazed the Mex
icans. several thousand United States
[troops were scattered to-day between,
I thi* point and the northern boundary
: of the distric.: of Guerrero, intent on
I the task of capturing or killing Fran
cis>o Villa, and exterminating the ban
j dit band with which he raided Colum
] bus, N. M., and slaughtered nine ri
? \ ilia ii"
I The cu! i > was nnul? Into Mexico ut
