'
UGAR QUOTATIONS
TV J- Y Conta. Dollars
00 Centrifugal KT.' pwlb prli
Price, Hawaiian baait' 0,T1. SI 14.20
Lsst previous 0,nota- -
MOB....
9.77 f 116.40
Honolulu Hawaii, territory; ' Friday, iach 24.. semi-weekly.
7
WHOLE NUMBER 4214
" ' - ' ' ' ' . . x. . L- . , , ,.i f , , ..,.,. ,
II
1(2
i ' BM Ba BB
, , .. J W .will
rirnv -irr
TPllvnrr rnrn C
ituioiimtbr
Fierce Battling Reported From
;; the Lake Narocz District Where
Slav ; Claim':' To Hold Three
Lines of .- TeutoniQ Trenches
CZAR LAUNCHES FRESH
OFFENSIVE NEAR RIGA
Verdun Fighting Dies Down Save
For Artillery Bombardment Be
lieved To fe." Preparation For
Another Asuult ; By Germans
ON DON, MtirU. 24. Th Ruuiao
: driv i ob gai ia earaMt, dea-
pita toe ciatma mada by the Ger
irbb war offif. . Petroprad last sight
officially annouacMd that tb treopa on
th Lake -t'xrott front bin aptnred
mora than -one tbouaand linwounded
Teutonic priaoncra,- and have cleared
the Brat three liaea of irearha of the
foea. Doteoa of. machine" guna were
captured by the . 81a vf , the deapateh
rontinuei, girlng other detaila of the
biggeat light on ' the - caatera front
alsce the Buaaiaa' reverae of laat May.
XiTM of IdttU taiu
la the north too the hoata of the
White Czar are aatd to have been vie
torioua, althoogh' here Brli tlahna
r te bte witbtood the atUcka Uancfe-
, d at the Q era an l'uea-. The baUliag
aooth of, Biga, which la' fmaT develop.
. ing into doe jt the feroeioue atrorElee
, life, that! er characUrUtia of the
lighting la' the. eajrf dariag 'tn Wrt;
atag of the' wr," ir atill evaying
bark and forth, '. witb the Bnaaiana
driving a little ahead with eaeh awing
of the pendulum of battle, ,
The Russian offensives In the Big.
district, in the Lake Naron district
ami still farther south near Crerno-
wits, which they . have recaptured, W
taken here as a remplete answer to the
claims made laat summer that the Plav
arniiea have been crushed by the re
verses they suffered last spring. Mill-tx-y
exerts here gay that aside from
the military value and strategical im
portance of the Buasian thruats at the
German and Aurtriad lines, the main
value of theae moves has been to con
vince Germany and her allies that Bps
ia is not crushed. .
Slav TroopaBaadr ,
Reports 'from neutral observers with
the Hlav column declare that the sol
diers of the O.ar are even better pre
pared for the fighting that U to come
than they were at the outbreak of the
war. Guna and anualtlona have beeu
goins; forwarl to the various fronts on
which the Hlav armies are operating by
the trainload for months, and it is now
axeerted that none of the nations with
whom she haa to fight ia better equip
ped than la Russia.
Lull In Battle
On the 'western front there waa an
ntheHluIl in' the battle, acouml Verdun.
That ia there was no infantry attacks
worth recording, according to the Paris
official statement issued last night.
North aad west of that aeetdr,
in the portion of the line held by that
British troops, the Teutons attempted
to launcn. an offensive which was
checked bythe British Are. The Brit
, tub counter attack proved more success
fill and slight gains -ire reported from
the districts north of the Somme.
Great Guns Busy
The Germans nryler the Crown
Prince are again fiercely bombarding
the French - lines at Bethineourt and
the fort at he Homme Mort. Army
officers in Paria say that this la an
indication that the Crown Prince ia
planning another assault with misses
of men, aa soon as the artillery prep
aration has been completed.
Practically all of the recent German
gains at Verdun have been made by
the use of liquid Ire, squirted from a
spraying machine, and which aeara and
burns the flesh of the opposing troops.
The military committee, of the chum
ber of deputies, meeting in Paris last
night after a dissuasion of the new
" f rightfulness weapon" that la beiug
used by the Teuton rommanders. r e
nniniemied the use of the aame device.
Methods of protection and retaliation
are being plnnned.
Berlin Optlmistlo
Herliu reiiorts of the fighting at
Verdun declare that German has de
finite hoie of conquering the stubborn
French fortress and paving the war
rnr H lihe on Paris and early termin
al"" of the war.
The militxry authorities say that
the pauses in the offensive on the
V-rdun f"int are part of the scheme
of operations to reduce this strong
I'nlil. O Nicer assert that the opera
tions are intended to lead to the-cap
ture of Verduni at an early date.
yJEXICAN Troop. (1). of
' Qrar (2) Typical of
icated By X Being General
, ..... p i .
THE THOUSAND
ARE BURNED OUT
Augusta's Loss Believed To Total
At Least Five Million
Dollars
(Associstsd Prass by Psdsral Wlrtlssi)
AUGl'MTA, Georgia, March 2;i
Three thouHuml persons have been made
Homeless and ten business blocks and
20 . residence blocks destroyed in the
fire which swept the city last night.
One of the largest office buildings pn
"Cotton Row" in the business center
was burned. The loss will reu.'h at
least $5,000,000. The militia has been
called out for relief work and to pre
vent looting.
FLAMES KILL ONE PERSON
NASHVILLE, Tennessee, March 2.1.
As a, result of the fire which burned
a path through Kast Naxkrille yoster'
day one person' is dead and BOO bumes
have been burned. The loss hfts'rench
ed 1,500,000. The militia has been
called out to assist in relief measures
for the homeless.
f.
BRITISH SHIP SUNK
BY ENEMY SUBMARINE
(AssocUtsd Freis by rsdarsX Wlrslsss.)
WASHINGTON,- March 24 The
American consul at Havro baa wired
to the state department th.it a sub
marine attacked and sank the British
stramer Kekiu Hank in the open romls
of Havre. There were no . Americans
on board the ship when she sauk, add
the despatch. One person lost his lite
when the Hteunier went down.
AVIATION CHIEF FALLS
DOWN FLIGHTS OF STAIRS
(AssooUtsd Prsss by Psderai Wlrslsss.)
. WASHINGTON, March 23. Col.
Hamuel Kelier, rhief of, the army avin
tion corps, fell dow(T three flights' nf
stairs in his home todsv and was badly
bruised. He is in the hospital.
I - .'V I
II : I
! ' ' , ' ' '... ... -
I '. ' ' : 'A
: v " ' 'U ' ! "
v - A W
.... f - ;::5 - ,1- r- s-ib.''-
I I HI I 111 !' ' I f
I - I III I . i'-y " .
Chmuahuv Who Are Cooperating' With General Pershing To Destroy VM1 ; and His Bandits.
Pancho'g Followers, and m Outliw nnr( Xf ! Ci. r 'xl.. s . v-'i
Merrer.! eoorted To t' iA
: , , . -i .
SENSATIONAL MURDERS INVOLVE TENNIS PLAYER
DENTIST SAID TO BE 'DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE'
(Aisooiatsd Press bj Tsdsrsl Wlrslsss.)
NKW YORK, March 24. What
promises to develop into one of
the most sensational murder cas
es of recent years began last night with
the arrest here of Arthur Waite, a don
tint ami a well known tennis player,
on suspicion of having poisoued his
father and mother-in-law, who died
while visiting the home of Watte. . The
dead man was John Peck, a multimil
lionaire druggist of Grand Kupids, Mi
c hign.
When the detectives from the central
station arrested Waite he was found
to he in a stupor, evidently the result I
SAYS MINE SANK DUTCH
STEAMER OFF FLANDERS
(AmocUUd Prsss by Psdsrsl Wlrslsss.)
UKHI.IN, March S3. Richard Hchul
liujl. CiiatoniAluu consul at Stuttgart, a
nut ura lined American, aid todav that
the Ttilmntia was, sunk by striking a
fl'iil iui; mine, according to a despatch
through the Overseas Agency.
HARRISON GRAY OTIS ILL
(Associated PrssS by rsderal Wlrslsss.)
I OS ANGKLER, March 23-flen.
Harrison Gray Otis, veteran publish
er of the Los Angeles Times, is seri
ously ill of "low-grade'' pneumonia.
v m. I" "SrTT".
oui concerning wnicn i nere Are uouDts
, ' y
-fl: ..M, ;
of narcotics. Waite la said by the po
lice to be addicted to the use of vari
ous drugs.
The arrest of the young man opens up
a long trail of plottings, say the detect
ives who have been at work upon the
case for some days. He is known to
have beeu living with another woman
beside his wife, and te have spent large
sums of money in the White Light dis
trict of lower Broadway.
The police say .that Waite has a
dual personality, one the, lover of ath
letics and out-of-door snorts, and the
other
me man annut town with noi
too uiee a sense of morslitv.
BIG STEEL OIL TANKER ; " '.
WILL TRADE IN PACIFIC
(AssocUtsd Prsss by Psdsrsl Wireless.)
HAN FRANCIHCO, March 24. An
nouncement waa made last night that a
big steel oil tanker, being constructed
at a cost of $1,230,000 for the Hausteca
Petroleum Company at an Oakland
yard, ia to be used in the I'aciio trade.
FIERCE STORM ON COAST
(AssseUssd Prsss by Psdsrsl Wireless.)
LOH A NO ELKS, March 2S Atvin
warnings have been put up. . Hail and
a 48 mile an hour wind are reported
at Haa Pedro.
1'"". A''"" "
J . y
.'It
'. '
RUSSIAN LOSS TWO
AND HALF MILLION
Slav Journalist tells of Secret
Lists At Petrograd
(AssocUtsd Prsss by Psdsrsl Wireless.) ;
NKW YORK, March 24. The fosses
of Russia in the fighting against the
Germans, Austrlans and Turks during,
the year 1913 totaled in killed, wound
ed and missing 2,542,639, hecordlno? to
a statement maae nere Dy a recently ar
rived Jewish newspaperman of Petro
grad. No statement of losses has been
officially made public in Russia,, he
says, but through bis newspaper he had
been able to secure secretly copiee Of
the officially printed liata of casualties,
which gave totals but no names. "
COUNT WIDOWS BY THOUSAND
LONDON, March 24. According to
figures made public yesterday ,ky the
British aruiv coun-il 41,500 soldiers''
willows hae been reiorf...l up to flute.
Eight thousand widows i of sailors
killed ih the war h-tve bei h y4.
TWO german'steamers v' '
CONDEMNED Af PRIZES
- -.
(Aswciatsd Prsss by Psdsrsf Wlrslsss.')
LONDON, March 28 Tho Hamburg
American steamers KronprAessia Ce
cilie and Prince Adelbert-ThTB been
cundemned as prizes. Thei bteamera
which were tyiug at raiaietriA. Bng
land, at the outbreak of the.war, were
seined by the British. The Krnprln
zessiu Cecilie is a different steamer
from the one which was carrying a
treasure cargo to Ku.ope when the war
broke mil and turned aad i4 lato
Par Ha our. Maine. )
CARRANZISTA OFFICIAL
IN EL PASO SO ADVISED
BY CHIHUAHUA GENERAL
. . . .'
Telegram Also Announces That American
And Mexican Troops Face Imminent Bat
tle With Outlaw Leader Near Namquipa,
Although Pershing Still Remains Silent
WAR DEPARTMMT IN DARK
t f ASSOCIATED PRESS IT
w
ASIILNGTOX; Match 2 WViUi surrounded. Decisive battle
imminent." ..
Thi rlesnatrh trnnsinitted imm
. I - - - - "- " Mll.VIHH,U IWOVIIVU ,
the state derjartment last nithtr It was based, upon a telegram received
from General Certani. a C'arranriKta rommnnrW 'i ("hikftalu n4
sent to.tlie Carranza consul at VA Paso, Sehor Garria. Further detail f
announced that the wily bandit .chief has been trapped, by forces of."
Americans and Mexicans under General Pershing and Carranza leaders,
at a little town, given as- EIo.so; not far from Namquipa " '' " : 1 .
Villiatai Ar Reported A Routed . . . . k V.:f
Earlieriin the day. General Gavira, the Carranza commander at Juarez, .
announced tHatlie ha4 received telegraphic 'despatches to the effect that
Villa anft l -i t rf hi- ... .M 1, ...1 Lu,. -nCA 1 I It., .fir . 1 t . . '
. . v ia iiiii unu Lf.n stidvstu ciiiu Uctuiy UCtcaiCU Uy .
Carranzista cblurfui rnear' Namquipa., Several of the ViUistas are said to ;
have been killed adhe bandits compelled to run, leaving behind them;
more thait on'e huntirexi- stolen horses: ' i
i ne njcung reports, as to tne
I X
I . ri.. i ' i r.M .. . f, "."'v' . ... - , . . i.. . .- .
-, f,ryE? "i" 3u ijsrruiai jjcncrai xierrcra nimseit nas ,,con-(
tradicteu the statement. ni has wrirrri n fVinsiil' rtami k.rvM.
; . ' T --,-. -v ....... ... v. - v9 - ,
city, saying that 1 iittuirj to remait? true to my oath. The Tepojt that
I have abandoned the constitutionalist cause is a lie. On the contrary
I am determined to fight Villa as energetically as possible,, wherever1 I
can find him." ;,Jf-, .'''.'' ; ',
In spite of this statement Gen. Franklin Dell, tlie American command-;
cr at FJ Paso, has telegraphed to General Funston declaring that be
has positive assurances tlwt. IJerrera intends to cast his loV with Villa
against the Constitutionalists, and will oppose 'the American invasion of
Mexico with his entire forci. of more than two thousand men. ,
Washington After Reliable Information ,
One result of these contradictory reports, which have caused Funston
a great deal of worry and, to quote one of his telegrams to th war de
partment, -have puzzlcdl rue pot a little," has been that the war and
state departments are bending .very effort now to obtain d-ejiabfe infor
mation as to what is going on south of the lwrder line of Mexico. ,
. General Hell fails to say upon what he bases his information that
Uerrera intends fighting with. Villa against the Americansbut it is
thought possible that the statement made by Garcia Flores, a Spaniard of
Chihuahua. lto reached El Paso last night, may prove to be the founda
tion for the whole Uerrera story. Flore says that shortly before' reach
ing Xamuipa, on bis way north from Chihuahua, the other day, his
train was stopped by a band of Villa troops with Villa himself at their
head.
Villa Hunts Americana To. Kill
Accompanied by a number of his men. Villa is said to have inarched'
through the entire length of the train, "looking for Americans to kill,"'
declares lores. The bandit leader is said to have insisted that he in
tends no harm to any Mexican, but that all Americans must die if he
gets his hands upon them. '
After searching the train Villa and his men are said by Flores to
have taken what they needed from the train and, without molesting any
of the passengers, allowed the coaches to proceed. The scene of this
holdup was Moctentma, eighty-five miles north of Namquipa. Just be
fore, the train started again Villa, in a loud voice, is declared to have
announced that "General. Herrera is
l L ..ll. :
vauacu iiiiu.il tain among me passengers, says r lores. .
General Pershing Still Is Silent ;
This is the fourth day since General Funston or the war department
has received a message from General Pershing, and word has been sent
to the officer commanding the American troops in the field to send in
formal and complete reports with greater regularity. AH developments
are to he reported ar speedily as xssible, say the departmental orders.
This .loes not mean that the censorship which Ins been established is
to he relaxed for the time being, bit that the headquarters of the border
forces at San Antonio, and the war department, itself, are without much
needed information. No reason is officially given for the apparent fail
ure of ' litieral Pershing tp report.
- Additional means of communication will he sent to General Pershing,
it is said, and possibly more aeroplanes will he added to those now with
his column.
War Secretary Wants Large Sum
The cost of the expedition afler Villa was hinted at yesterday when
the war department, through Secretary (taker, asked congress for $8,
800,000 to cover "extraordinary expenditures." for the invasion rif Mm.
ido, including the steps for increasing
, 1 he search tor Lieutenant Correll, the missing aviator; haj pvovsj
successful. The airman was found by a motor truck, LTtaer Ota com
mand of Lieutenant Parkinson of the Twentieth Infantry, uninjured,
three miles south of Ascencion. He had lost his way and been forced
to come to earth for lack of gasoline. He was unhurt.
PtBEUt. Vm.T1.TM ; 't A
' " . . .' ; .;
PI Pmm altbntin.h iinw;;..l mUMA
action ot ocneral v Jlerrera, com-;
-.u w V- V .. , VUfVtfkl ,
with me against the griogoVVThis
......
the army to its full strength.
