Subscribers of The Daily Galj
City are served the full Leased
Wire Service of the United
Press Associations.
VOL. 122. NO. 72.
Several Mexicans Killed and Hundred Horses
Captured in Clash With the Forces
of Carranza.
11 BANDIT IS SURROUNDED TODAY
Mexican Uprising Against United States
not Taken Place and Herrera has
not Revolted.
E. T. Conkle, United Press Staff
Correspondent]
EL PASO, Texas, March 24.—Villa
surrounded and may be engaged by
merlcan troops today.
According to a message from Col
nel Francisco Bertani after his col
mn had routed /ilia's force Just east
Namiqulpa in the Santi Clara can
the Villistas were surrounded by
rtania's and United States soldiers
der Brigadier General Pershing.
Carranza Consul Garcia, who made
biles Bertanl's report, stated that
was no possible chance of Villa
tting his way out and that his cap
was momentarily expeetea.
Those familiar with Villa's tactics
nd his hatred for Americans, believe
will never be taken alive and that
is entire command may be wiped out
the predicted fight.
Garc'.a said Villa might try to es
ape by a surprise attack during the
ight.
reliminary engagement the Villistas
etreated to B1 Oso, five miles south
Namiqulpa, after losing several
illed and about 100 horses captured.
he American troops in touch with
Carranzistas surrounding Villa,
believed to be either Colonel
id's cavalry column or Pershing's
en, who got behind Villa by a rail
trip from Casas Grandes south
ard.
This report of Villa's whereabouts
did not exactly fit with the story
brought by Garcia Flores, a reputable
Spanish business man of Chihuahua
City who declared on his arrival in El
Paso that Villa held
ur
a Mexican Na­
tional train at Moctezuma, nearly one
hundred miles eaBt of Namiquipa on
Wednesday. Villa and 2,000 followers
were seeking American passengers *o
kill, said Flores. He was positive was suppressed,
that it.was. Villa in person who went
through the coaches. It was hardly
considered possible that the outlaw's
large force could have covered the
difficult country to Namiqulpa within
a day.
PTores reported Villa said that Gen
eral Luis Herrera had revolted from
Carranza and joined him. But the
Preponderance of evidence today was
that Herrera was still loyal to the de
facto government.
Other arrivals from Chihuahua City
reported seeing Herrera there Tues
day. Telegrams given out by Consul
Garcia, purporting to come from Her
rera himself, as well as the principal
officials in Chihuahua City, emphatic
ally denied Herrera's defection.
Other reports declared that Herrera
recently announced he would no long
er be dictated to by the defacto gov-
ouglas, Arizona Fears In
vasion at Night Like the
Columbus Raid.
United Press Leased Wire Service]
WASHINGTON, March 24.—With a
lexican army of three thousand caval
and forty niMM'^artni'e^'ca'mneJl
ten blocks
auglas, Ariz., and with American
orces ordered not to prepare for ac
ve defense for fear of offending the
'Bxlcans, the Arizona"city is in grave
anger of Imminent attack, according
& telegram received today by Sena-
Ashurst from D. A. Richards, an
Uorney.
"Do all you can for us before it is
late," said the telegram.
Ashurst was undetermined whether
present the telegram to the senate
to the war department. In both
barters, he declared, his pleas fbr aid
ave
been received rather lightly,
pie telegram to Ashurst read:
"Mexican general has forty pieces
artillery and ifiOO cWtty stationed
A.
... Bertani reported that in the, the line by the American expedition. [By E. T. Conkle, United Press Staff
It was still generally believed that Correspondent.]
the railroad would be used within a EL PASO, Texas, March 24.—Doubt
few days to transport provisions, sup- that American troops have surrounded
plies and ammunition to the Casas Villa or were about to engage him in
Consul Garcia shortly before eight
a. m. today said he had not received
any word from the front, although he
expected the fighting with Villa to
start at daybreak.
Fort Bliss authorities said they had
no word from Pershing to indicate
that a battle with Villa was at hand
or that Villa was surrounded.
Major Sample, commanding at Co-
cram en t. He was said to have been iambus, stated he had absolutely no
ITY WOULD BE AT MERCY
OF 3,000 ARMED MEXICANS
fear
ithin ten blocks of the cent^r of Mexicans have
-V
-i'ft
has
angered by being displaced in com
mand of the Chihuahua garrison. Al
ways considered bitter toward Ameri
cans, Herrera was reported to have
made an anti-American speech at
Parrarel recently. Since the rumor
spread that he had repudiated Car
ranza, he told his followers in Chihua
hua City that the American troops
had no right to be in Mexico. He
would not Join Villa, however, he said,
according to reports. Herrera's own
telegram to Garcia stated he was
ready to fight Villa energetically.
Brig. Gen. George Bell Jr., com
mander at (Port Bliss, is one of the
few officials here who believe the ru
mor's of Herrera's defection. He de
clined to make public to newspaper
men the source of his information.
Bell held a conference with J. O.
Crocket, vice president of the Mexico
•Northwestern railroad and Consul
Garcia, to discuss the possible use of
Grandes district where General Persh- battle south of Namaquipa was ex
ln* is understood to have established! pressed today in statements by army
his Mexican base. officers here and in Columbus. Brig.
General Bell put out the usual Gen. Geo. Bell. Jr., commander at
strong provost guard in EH Paso and Fort Bliss, said:
along the border last night. Heavy "I do not believe such a battle is in
police patrols were also on duty progress.-'
throughout the night. The local sltu-j Oarranza authorities in Juarez said
ation continued quiet despite fears of! they had not received any information
a Mexican uprising. The police ar- since announcement last night that
rested Emilio Valetzuela, publisher of General Bertina'e Carranbas column
El Constitution, a Mexican newspaper, and a detachment of American troops
He was charged with printing an edi-jhad surrounded Villa. Consul Garcia
torial seeking to arouse hatred for then expected the battle tp open to
Americans by the Mexican residents day. Camp Columbus is also without
of the city. Eight employes were information of an engagement between
taken into custody. The newspaper Pershing and Villa's forces.
men would be called upon to rally tojlnto
trouble 'between the American forces
'"'CW
Information of any engagement be
tween Pershing's troops and Villa.
The army's wireless Is now in good
working order. Sample said, but early
today he bad received no Information
of Villa closely surrounded by Amer
ican and Carranzista troops.
Confirmation of reports that Gen
eral Pershing obtained permission to
use the Mexican railway line south
of Casas Grandes, was brought to El
Paso today by Americans arriving
from Casas Grandes. Pershing sent
two troop trains to Aguaje, Chihua
hua, in an effort to cut off Villa's
flight southward. Aguaje is north of
the destroyed Cumbres tunnel. As
the troop movement was made Sun
day, it is believed the troops have
had sufficient time to reach a point
sooth of Namiqulpa.
When the passengers left Casas
Grandes yesterday for El Paso, noth
ing had been heard of Villa's exact
whereabouts. However, reports fre
quently reached the expedition' head*
quarters at Dublan, just north of
Casas Grandes, that Villa was mur
derlng Mexicans and continuing his
outlawry.
The passengers renewed the
charges against the Carranza garri
son at Casas Grandes who are said to
have offered no opposition to Villa
when he passed within half a mile
of Casas Grandes on his retreat from
the Columbus raid. The garrison has
not joined with the American expedi
tion in the pursuit of Villa.
General Pershing was not at the
Dublan camp yesterday and the pas
sengers on the train believed he had
accompanied the troop train south
ward. The location of Dodd's ad
vance column was unknown to the
Mormons at Casas Grandes. Rela
tions between the expeditionary
forces and the Mexicans in the Casas
Grandes district were said to be
satisfactory,
Battle is Not Reported.
the heartB
the Mexican colors and that Mexico ja(j (^rranzista soldiers, has made
was losing its honor. tne campaign of the first chief against
In connection with the absence of
th0 bandlt a
pethizers said today.
and Mexican residents* of small towns pormer villista generals, self-exiled
i^.a" ®8' vl! across the border, point with contempt
... the Carranza troops.
Mexicans are reaping a harvest by
selling small wares to the United
States soldiers.
.. Mexican Soldiers Are Afraid. of unusual cold weather and a snow
The editorial stated the entry of, DOUGiLAS, Ariz., March 24.—The torm here today after a long spell
American troops meant that all young fetLT that the bandit Villa has driven
the under-fed, half-
mockery, Villa sym-
"Why haven't the Carranzistas cap
tured Pancho?" one of the exiled "gen
erals" was asked today.
He pointed across the border to
ward Agua Prieta.
"5o there," he said. "Ask to be
(Continued on pags 9.)
ten blockB from center of Douglas. Correspondent with the Ameri
Seven thousand cavalry stationed six can Army.]
miles south of Douglas. We have only) PALOMAS, Mexico, March 16.—[By
1,800 infantry 300 cavalry and four! courier to Columbus, 23—Delayed.]—
pieces of artillery. Our troops sta- Four khaki clad troopers of the Thir
tioned two miles east of Douglas. Am teenth United St&tes cavalry rode plunged Into the creek for a
reliably Informed it would require one
1
in LQSU U'P,UL acvAvik, uiu aiui ro ict
bidden by administration from making-vasion of Mexico was under
hour for our troops to reach Douglas two miles south of Columbus, N. M., I nels were also posted around all build
in case of night attack. Our army for-1 yesterday morning and the actual In- ings and mesquite brush corrals with
Mexicans might misconstrue such expedition. The "point" consisted of the festive types
en-:
trenched against the United States York, and Troopers Shermfleld
side and have barbed wire
entangle-1
ments. We have no entrenchments, ginia, and another called Sams.
Mexican troops could easily repeat They went across abreast. The
the Columbus massacre in Douglas Carranzistas customs house was de
a a a
Mexico with similar loss. All of these! "Points" were flung to each side of
statements can be verified by
our
In response to queries the state de
partment had today from its consuls
in Mexico, word that there is no
massing of Carranzista troops along
the border. Other reports however,
have indicated that there is border
uneasiness lest snob massing should
occur.
& S
*.«
KEOKUK, IOWA. FRIDAY. MARCH 24,1916
EXICAN OUTLOOK IS BRIGHTER
A
[United Press Leased Wire Service.] ted Press Leased Wire Service]
PETROGRAD, March 24.—Savage fcRLIN, March 24. —Continuing
fighting is going on at Jaeobstadt 'r advance to force the evacuation
eighty miles southeast of Riga, where I French positions northwest of Ver
the Russians, using liquid fire and dun, the Germans have captured two
gas bombs, are battering In the Qer-1 more trenches In the Haucourt regiion,
man salient. the war office announced this after-
At the same time the 8lavs are noon.
attacking vigorously at Frlednlch-I Violent Russian attaoka oontlrvued
stadt, west of Jacobstad^ and at throughout yesterday and last night
Hluxt to the south. General Kuropat- southeast of Riga and in ihe region of
kin's aim apparently Is to squeeze Dvinsk. All the Russian assaults, how
Von Hindenburg out of this Impor- ever, broke under German Are.
tant salient by threats of envelop- The Germans pressed forward south
ment, forcing the retirement of the
whole German line from Riga to
Dvinsk, on a front of 140 miles.
The success of this offensive will
remove the German threat against
Riga and Dvinsk and handicap Von
Hindenburg in any aggressive cam
paign he may undertake on the Rus
sian front.
Despite optimistic statements from
some souroes, best Informed orltlos
here do not consider Kuropatkin's
attacks the beginning of a great Rus
sian offensive.
South of Dvinsk the Germans are
counter attacking vigorously. The
onrush of the Russian troop has tem
porarily been halted by the enemy's
onslaughts. Both sides are battling
for the possesion of strategic rail
ways of great importance in the ex
pected spring offensives.
Russian artillery Is tuning up along
the whole 800 mile front.
In the extreme southeast, General
Ivanoff Is meeting with no serious re
sistance In his campaign to clear Aus
trian troops from the north bank of
the Dniester.
[United Press Leased Wire Service]
AMSTERDAM, March 24,—Flushlnjf
correspondents- of Amsterdam news
papers today reported sounds of heavy
firing In the channel from the direc
tion of Ostend and Westende.
Incoming skippers reported that the
flashes of gunfire were visible on the
horizon during the night. They said
they believed an Important naval fight
was going on.
TWO STEAMERS SUNK.
LONDON, March 24.—The British
steamer Fulmar, 1,270 tons, and the
Danish steamer Christiansunda, 1,017
tons, have been sunk. Eighteen of
the Fulmar's crew were saved. The
crew of the Danish steamer number
ing twenty-two men was also picked
up.
A Foot of 8now.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
EL PASO, Texas, March 24.—Suf
fering- among the American troops
was predicted, following the arrival
Qf
unseasonable heat. Afoot of snow
was reported at Leesburg, New I lines In Avocourt wood, the
Mexico. The soldiers who left Co
lumbus In pursuit of Villa were not
equipped far cold weather.
Volunteer as Nurses.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
DENVER, Colo., March 24.—Six
Denver society maids—turkey trotters
all—have all volunteered to act as
nurse Mexicans too? They're such
age said: "I suppose well have to
nurse Mexicons too? They're such
dirty creatures, those Mexican sol
diers, aren't they? But of course we
couldn't let the poor creatures suffer."
With the United States Army
on the March Through Mexico
IBv H. D. Jacobs, United Press Staff creek and no one permitted to re
plenlsh his canteen until the medical
experts had ascertained whether the
water was poisoned. xxx(Cen
sored.—xxx Four like porkers dash-
I ed out of an adobe hut and
through a gap In a barbed wire fence before they could be stopped. Senti- Payne
way. orders
any active defense preparations for They were the "point" of the punitive them. This was a precaution against
the sergeant, "Pike" Hennessey New The first move by the troops after
Pennsylvania, Woolrldge of West Vir-
the advance to g^ard against surprise
army officers here. Help us if you' attacks from lurking ^Vlllls^tas. The
can, before it is too late.
first camp was made about four miles
south of Palomas. The populace both
came down to meet us.
Headquarters was located south of
a small, alkali-tainted creek. The
cavalry and artillery also encamped
on the south side while the Infantry
established itself on the north.
thrown out aloes tha
Quard* were
r^
to prevent anyone approaching
of breaking ranks was to yank off their
socks and shoes and bathe their feet.
It may be that the army used to
march on its stomach, but now it
marches on its feet literally and fig
uratively.
Shortly after nightfall the signal
corps arrived with its wireless, ran
up a tall mast, cranked the gasoline
engine for power and began com-
of Malancourt, against the southwest
ern Side of the Fren salient. The
advance further Imperils French posi
tions at Maiancourt and Bothlncourt.
In the fighting in this region French
prisoners now total 881.
Artillery duels occurred last night
fa the Champagne, the Argonne and
west of the Meuse.
FOURTH WAR LOAN.
BERLIN, March 24.—The fourth
German war loan has been a brilliant
succsss, Financial 8eoretary Helffer
ich reported to the reichstag today.
The subscriptions totalled more than
$2,000,000,000. This figure, Dr. Helf
ferlch said, does not Include subscrip
tion abroad and at home.
"The total of Germany's war loans
now reach more than $7,000,000,000,"
he said, "while England has raised
less than $4,000,000,000 and France
only a little more than $2,000,000,000
by war loans."
most violent near Mouialnvllie and
Eparges.
French troope occupied a mine crat
er near Hill 285 In the Argonne.
Elsewhere there were no Important
actions during the night.
RESUME ATTACKS.
LONDON, March 24—German troop9
have resumed heavy attacks against
the French front northwest of Verdun,!"-
dared the French were in an extreme-]
ly precarious position.
Shackleton Is Back.
LONDON. March 24.—LieutenHiit
Ernest Shackleton, noted Antartic ex
plorer, has returned from his latest
dash toward the south pole, according
to dispatches from Sydney, New
1s zing
munication with Columbus. hours of journeying In saddles. Thejthe ca^et meeting.
expedition would follow in two or headuqarters. The coffee hard tack, the protocol
ALL
as
'et
west bank of the Meuse, an Intermit-1 It is the belief in administration
tent bombardment occurred around circles that were the United States
Douaumont and Damloup In the Ito mobilize the militia on the border
Woevre region the artillery fire was
at 1110
1
the decisive battle on this sector has war. were hurled by Senator Stone, ad
begun.
By battering through the
French
crown
prince bent the French front in the
shape of a dangerous loop.
Dispatches from Berlin today
1
1
South Wales. The results of the ex
ploration have not yet been an
nounced.
It kept a height, of about 1,500 feet
and it. was impossible to ascertain I
how many men it carried.
Motor cycle orderlies chugged be
tween headquarters and Columbus all
night. The first mail out of Mexico
bath was carTied by Orderly William
of Saginaw. "Mich. Trooper
Collin of "Missouri" Tenth colored
cavalry detailed as headquarters es-
cor
was discussing the expedition
wlth Trooper Green.
"Can you all talk Spanish T' asked i[By Robert J. Bender. United
Collin. "Yassa, I can talk just ninety Staff Correspondent.]
words," responded Green, tapping his WAS7TTNOTON. March 24.—
ammunition belt containing ninety 'dent Wilson and tlie cabinet will
rounds, "and they Is all alike. They aider sendlnp more troops to
killed-a-Mexican—sting
a-Mexican—zing killed-a-Mexican."
pa
Prom officer to officer's servant the, The situation growing out of
greatest kindness was shown the cor-i pursuit of Villa and his bandits will anti_ African sentiment^
respondents with the expedition who receive practically the entire attention
tw/ppnsnrpd wvv Th© Thlrt6dnth QBwsp&pBriiidii Joined the column cn .th© (inpstion or ,_ _» fui- cr^rammnnt
left at davbreak, as an advance guard, such short notice they were forced to the cabinet will consider the Jrn^}1^J risible circumstances
It ^as swmoimcecTthe remainder oMhe beg mess kite off orderlies attached to, of strengthening
three days. An aeroplane flew oot bacon and potatoes served in the cor- ranza for use of the Northern Mexican Ame^n troopsi
from Columbus this morning, caught respondents' mess would have tasted raUways today yreveat popular criticism.
up with the cavalry and turned back, Good without any Mt» Utmost doubt prevailed here today pre popu
ppppp^pppiii^
given no such orders,
Present time It would seriously
embarrass
Carranza and make more
I difficult his task of convincing the
Mexican people that the United
States does not intend to make a
campaign against the entire country,
as
was
acordlng to Paris dispatches today. I information had been sent out re
Following a twenty-four hour lull, sarding true conditions across the
the German batteries turned a terrific border.
fire on the French positions south of Jingoism is Rampant.
'Maiancourt and around Dead Man hill. WASHINGTON", March 24—Charges
French guns roared in reply all day that, sinister forces aro seeking to ln
yerterday. It is believed in Paris that flame Americans and Mexicans into
ous conditions along
THE WEATHEK
Rain or snow. Colder. Local
temp—7 p. m. 46 7 a. m. 40.
Citizen Soldiery of Iowa and Other States
not Needed and May not be
Used Later.
SITUATION LOOKS VERY OPTIMISTIC
While Affairs are in a Critical Condition, Most
of the Alarming Talk Comes From
Sinister Forces.
[By Robert J. Bender, United Press
Staff Correspondent.]
WASHINGTON, March 24.—There
will be no mobilization of the na
tional guard on the Mexican border
at the present time. In the light of
reports received from American con
suls in Mexico and from army offi
cials in charge of the punitive expe
dition, President Wilson and his cabi
net today decided there Is no need at
present either for a call for volun
teers or for use of the militia.
The question of calling out the
militia for patrol duty was gone into
details. Members of congress from
states on the border had Impressed
[United Press Leased Wire Service] upon the president and his cabinet.
PARI8, March 24d—French artillery I the need of additional troops on the
kept up a heavy bombardment of G«r-|line.
man positions In th« woods south of It Is possible that additional regu
Ma'ancourt last night, but the Teutons*' iaw» will bo sent to the border al
made no Infantry attacks, the war o£-' though Secretary of War Bnk^r would
fics reported here this afternoon. not' say today whether such orders
On the rest of the front northwest 1 are contemplated. He said merely
of Verdun the night was calm. On the he
So far as Mexican conditions are resolution to call for fifty thousand
concerned, great optimism was voiced volunteers, Senator Sherman asked
after the cabinet meeting. One off!- for Stone's own op'.nion.
cial said that in the light of the ofil- "I get my information from the
cial report, admitted to the cabinet, president and others upon whom we
must rely." Stone retorted. "If needed,
they would not hesitate to inform the
evident a vast amount of mis-
war. were hurled by senator «tone, an-: vro-ri-ad
ministration spokesman In the senate ministration to hi:
today, following the reading of tele- co. have the rage to s_ay so like
grams !nto the reoord telling of seri-1 men—^do it
the Texas and I is what you want don rto it surrep-gurreD.
Arizona borders.
de-l "Every man with sense enough
to
come in out of the wet." said Stone.
"knows the situation In Mexico Is I
crlt'cal—that an effort is being made I
by numerous Hlninter influences In
an
"The president has sought to im
press Mexicans of his friendliness and
th-e senate has endorsed this stand.
"But there aro Influences at work
and we know It. working to create a
situation, the end of which we could
not know.
"Will senators make present critical
conditions worse?"
Stone and Borah clashed when
Consideration of the Request
That More Troops be
Sent to the Border
con-
a
tt0^dpr
TEN PAGES
Borah and Sheppard of Texas had
telegrams read from Douglas, Ariz.,
citizens asking help in few of a new
Mexican massacre and invasion there.
A stormy debate followed the read
ing of the telegram and the introduc
tion by Senator Lewis of a resolution
proposing that any person who fur
nishes Villa aid be declared a traitor.
Referring to the telegram presented
by Borah, Stone said:
"It would have been better if all
such comment should have been deliv
ered to the war department.- I con
fes myself unable to understand any
senator's desire at this crucial point
to present such matters and thereby
give them offloial dignitj."
"I have no apologies to make," in
jected Borah. Stone retorted that
Borah might have aoted with "greater
propriety."
"When a roan becomes obsessed
with the idea that he is running for
president," continued Stone, ironical
ly, "he ought to act uninfluenced by
one delusion in exploiting another de
lusion.
"Of course a senator may do as he
pleases. He may offer anything he
wishes just what public good is ac
complished. surpasses intelligent un
derstanding."
Replying to Stone's criticism of bis
congress.
"My offer was to tender friendly
help to the administration if it !s
needed." said Sherman.
Turning to the reiwbltvans. Stone
said:
If von wish to encourapre th«»
titlously."
"Is helping protect the forces al
ready in Mexico provocative of war?"
asked Sherman.
Si oiio declared Sherman's resolu
tion was introduced for t'.ie purpose of
numerous nmuier niiiucm.ca "uu .i,„_ Tallin
outside of Mexico to excite
and
U'ajiing war on
inflame Mexicans to tell them the 'Shft™antuho.t,L,
United. States contemplates an aggres-1 pointed to the terms of
slon against their whole government
and people.
ot
.i
is
i.V-1
V.",|
»-~3s
^s to la.
'Oh, I didn't expect the senator to
express terms, to admit such a mo
tive," said Stone.
'Iapp criticised Stone for being too
pronn to assign political motives" to
the republicans lie declared all sena
tors were acting patriotically, includ
ing Sherman.
"I am sure there was not an at
tempt to embarrass the president,"
fContln-ed on page 9.)
CABINET MEETING TODAY
WILL DISCUSS MEXICO
reeardlnsc the reported defection of
General Luis Herrera and 2,000 men
from Carranza's to Vilia's standard
Until Pershinst's forces get in touch,
friendly or hostile, with Herrera's
{outposts in Chihuahua, many believe
the mystery will remain unsolved. Re
I ports from General Bell indicating be
Press lief in the rumors of Herrera's revolt,
were to be laid before the cabinet.
Vreel- Through state department agents in
Mexico as well as array
reinforce
killed- General Pershing in the Mexican cam- tered its attention today
par
oi and
1J MexSn ImeAc^t^ in
Vexican spies, the po\ernment cen-
ign today. accurate information as to the extent
se_
The cabinet was agreed upon the
£7w0
th
e™™nceo*
Mexico^nd
d^ire
wI11
