WEATHER
MARKE IS
NEW YORK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
March 15, 26.15.
Arizona Friday, fair
in south
Associate!! Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 18, NO. 257.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, MARCH 24, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
5 AT EL 05
F
Willi,
1
DEO W OP
A
,1
7
.1
.'
-
J
f
' 4
'1
nccini ai c im
UIMUInLU 111
CAPITAL ARE
m OVER
BO
Washington, Apparently, Re-
Cards the Rumor that Her-
.-a Mac Rovn!t1 A I In.
true.
PROTOCOL EXPECTED
BACK FROM CARRANZA
Funston Asks Department for
Ei?ht More Aeroclanes and
B. -T i 4
uiiders Are Questioned t
About Date of Delivery. I
I
WASHINGTON. March 2.1. Ten-
sion in administration circles over the
Mexican situation relaxed today in the veterans have been investigating re
nbsrnce of official confirmation of the ports thct Mexicans have bought up
r?r,ort that 2.OC0 Carranzista troops al! available supplies of arm sand car
tridges in Phoenix stores,
st Chihuahua City had joined Villa.;
Conflicting unofficial advices from the
Str.te Department to telegraph Ameri
rnn Consuls at Chihuahua and Duran
go for i"- mediate reports as to the sit
uation in the Torreon region, where
Herrera was last reported.
Officials were perplexed by this
part of the border news, saying Gen.
P.ell bad notified G.5n. Funston that the
reports regprding the revolt were un
true. When the War Department
'tc! for the night at 11 o'clock. Sec
rolary Baker sla'cd that Gen. '"tins
ton hrd not advised the department
cf Gen. Hell's renorts and that all in
frm'".ton resHns him indicated that
Ilerrrra was' 1oy::l to Cnrranz?.
Gen. Scott declared that he did not
relieve the reports that Gen. Herera
Yit deserted Ger. Carranza and joined
Vi'if.
Secretary Taker's report on the days j
overt" on the border were laid before
President Wil-;or when trie latter re-1
i.mo-t !cni"h: from a day's trip to
Pli'Mdplri'Mn. Tey were of a reas
s;;rin ncture. although thev contain
ed v'hin,7 o.-i:he as to the reported j
revolt
The rccu-ini'tion of reports of the ' Protested to the governor of Tex-1
!-!fe .irrival of the army motor trucks ' as ,,ia' tn"v feared lynching if they j
i!h the eynedi-ionary forces: tliewere extradited to; Georgia to stand :
restoration of radio communication : lnpl on "naicimenis cnarsing larceny
w ith Gen. Pershing's forces, and the aftP trust- announced they had decid
frt!factory progress of diplomatic ne-1 eJ not ' ask a rehearing of their rase
gotiations with the de facto govern-1 and would be ready to proceed to At
r.ent served to relieve official anxiety J !na within a week, or as soon as the
An official denial from the Carranza i mandate of the Supreme Court of the
nut rarities at Juarez that Herrera had : United States reached here. The Su
revo'.ed wis nrescnted to Lansing ' Preme Court recently held their ettra-
Tercra!lv bv Eliseo Arrednndn Mr
Arredordo continued the conference
with Councillor Polk on the proposed
proctocnl bPtween the two govern
ments covering the onerations of Am
erican troops now in Mexico. The gen
eral outline of the draft of the docu
ent has been agreed to and sent to !
Gen. Carranza.
No reply has come vet from Gen.
Carranzn to the request that American
frowns be permitted to use the Mexi
can Northwestern railway. Reports
from the border said Gen. Pershing al-
rerady was making use of a portion of ;
(Continued on Page Two.
(By Review Leased Wire.) ;
NEW YORK. March 23 In a stupor
P YORK DENTIST IS ACCUSED
MURDERING BIS FATHER-IN-LAW
from self administered drugs. Dr. Ar- young dentist in bed. apparently in little or the soup, aun expressed a ie
thur Warren Waite. a dentist and well great pain. Dr. A. A. Moore, the sire for a cup of tea. Dr. Waite went
known as a tennis Dlaver. was in the Dhvsician who attended Peck while with her to the kitchen, she asserted.
custody of detectives tonight and will here, declared Wai'e was suffering i saying:
be charged with the murder here, on from overdoses of narcotics. I "Father didn't like the soup. I'll
March 12. of his father-in-law, John! Quantities of three different drugs put some of that medicine in the tea."
E. Peck, a millionaire drug manufac-( were found in the dentist's clothing. Peck drank the tea. she said,
turer of Grand Rapids, Michigan, as and he said .he had taken some ofj Ir. Cornell said he visited Peck
soon as he can be taken into court. ; each kind, beginning yesterday. I Saturday afternoon, March 11. and
With the arrest of Dr. Waite, the dis- Asked how much he had taken, he talked with him for about an hour,
trict attorney's office believes it has' replied. "Plenty". j He seemed, at that time, to be in
uncovered what will prove one of the ' District Attorney Swann went to good health, the physician declared,
most remarkable cases in many the house with a stenographer to ) While he wai there.! Dr. Cornell said,
years. hake a statement from the dentist I he . Dr. Waite go into another
Mr Peck, who is reputed to have but Waite was in stupor. Dr. Moore 'room which Peck had retired with
left an estate valued at about ll.f.OO,-1 said his patient probably would be bottle containing what Dr. Waite told
000 and his wife, died within six able to go to court tomorrow. In the him was medicine. In a few minings,
weeks while visiting their daughter meantime, Waite will be closely guard-j he said, he heard Peck groaning. The
and her husband at their Riverside ed. next morning he was called on the
Drive anartments here. Ry the will The arrest of Dr. Waite was order-, telephone by Mrs. Watte and told hnn
of Mr. Peck, his estate was equally ed today after an investigation by her father was dead. When Dr.
divided between Mrs. Waie and Per- District Attorney Swann. based upon ! Waite was questioned at the district
cv P.'cV. of Grind Rapids, his son. the results of an autopsy on Peck's attorney's office yesterday, he adniit
Vrs. Waite now is serlouslv ill at body, which revealed strong symp- ted- according to Mr. Swann. that he
Grand Rsnids. District Attorney toms of poisoning. The case was had been living with another woman
Swann said todav he had learned she placed in the hands of the grand jury, under the name of Dr. Walters. This
had ben instructed by Waite to make today after Dora Heiler, a negro woman is being sought by the police
a will in his favor. imaid at Dr. Waite's home, and Pr. s witness.
'Arizona's Twelve Companies of Militia
Ordered Recruited By General Harris
Immediately Recruit Your
Companies to War Strength
Is Manner in Which Units
Were Addressed.
NEW MEN GUARANTEED
DISCHARGE, IT IS SAID
Governor Asks War Depart
ment for 3,000 Rifles and
30,000 Shells for the Use of
"Home Guards" on Border.
PHOENIX, March 23 Ind ruc
tions to recruit the twelve national
guurd companies of Arizona to war
strength were transmuted to the com-
' -. ii - .i;i i i hi t-i H ii t-ii tHnv hv Arltiilnt!
'lll.l VUHIlllHIIUl 111 rj llljli I n
Genera! Charles W. Harris, who acted
on orders from the war derartmen.
The order is to "immediately recruit
yo.ir companies to war strength."
necruits under a new form of en
listment were guaranteed discharge at
Siy" drill''
not taken Into active sen ice.
are ordered, liesides
requests for men to guard border
towns, many pleas for arms are being
PeoelvPd at Mate headquarters from
county offciais.
. . (-i : . t. ..
Ala meeting oi spauiMi war fifr
ans today it was announced that this
formation would be available as to
siiDDlies of arms and ammunition. The
ASKS FOR ARMS.
PHOENIX. March 23. Governor
Geoge V. P. Hunt telegraphed to
day to the war department asking
for 3.1100 carbines and 30,000 rounds
of ammunition to arm "home guards"
in border settlements and towns that
haveasked protection.
Hunt guaranteed the safe return
of the equipment.
The governor raid the large num
ber of Villa sympathizers in Arizona
nr.eiit cause serious developments.
At his suggestion all military comman
der. were wired today to recruit their
forces to full strength.
TWENTY KILLED
ONDON. March 24. Twenty per-
sons have been killed in an explosion I
in the Prussian collier near Milko-i
tral news from Amsterdam:
1,
WAIVES FURTHER PROTEST
i finally adopted onlv after representa
SAN ANTONIO, March 23. Mr. and . tive Kahn. rankitiE Renublican mem-
Mrs. Victor Innes. of Eugene. Oregon,
dition was legal
NORWEGIAN BOAT TORPEDOED
HAVR... Mjarrh 23. The Norwe-.from
Plan steamer Koinig has been torpe-1
deed without warning in the channel
according to a report received here.
The crew was saved.
DANISH BARK SUNK
LONDON. March 23. The Danish
bark Claudia has been sunk, accord
ing to a dispatch to the Exchange Tel-
eeraph Company from Copenhagen.
Her ctew was rescued.
When detectives went to the Waite
apartments today, they found the
INCREASE BILL
IS PASSED
BY HOUSE
Hay Measure, Raising Regu
lar Army to 140,000 Men
Goes to Senate. Only Two
Dissenting Votes Cast.
(By Review Leased Wire.;
The Day in Congress.
Senate: Met at noon. Debate
was resumed on the I ml ion ap
propriation bill. Finance com
mittee considered the House re
solution repealing free sugar tar
iff. Kern amendment to the bank
law to permit bank directors to
serve on other banks mi favor
ably reported.
House: Debate on army reor
gnanization bill. Ways and
means committee democrats met
to perfect the administration tar
riff resolution.. Passed 402 to 2
Hay army reorganization bill.
Ways and Means committee dem
ocrats agreed on tariff c-ommi-.sion
to consider dye stuff tariff
rules and gave notice it would re
port out tomorrow to immediate
ly bring up the immigration bill.
Adjourned at 6.05 p. m. to 11 a.
m. Friday.
WASHINGTON. March 23. The
Hay army increase bill, providing Kir
regular ermy peace strength of 11'.),
000 fighting men instead of the pres
ent 100,000. passed the House late to
day by a vote of 402 to 2. It goes
lo the Senate for immediate consider
ation virtually drafted by the' Ihiirs-e
Committee.
The negative votes were cast by
Representatives Iiritton, Republican,
of Illinois, and London, Socialist, of
New York.
Mr. Britton opposed the bill be-
. , . . . 1. .. fr .1 .. . ; 1 1 t'.. i, .. : .1
, , Mr ,
h.,. h r.nrJt .... t
t-i .. !.
lit lllll IX 111- 111,! Ill I 111- LII'H
national preparedness measures urged
by President Wilson to pass either
house, although various related mea
sures have been approved. It was
ber of the military committee, had
again met defeat, this time 213 to 191.
in his effort to increase the author-
jzed strength of the regular army to
220.000.
During the debate Chairman Hay,
of the committee, withdrew the bill.
Jacob B. Cornell, a wealthy relative
of the Pecks' had told stories to the
district attorney which seemed to him
to warrant bringing proceedings
against the dentist.
The grand jury investigation will
continue several days. Witnesses
Grand Rapids and Detroit are
expeviea nere naiuruay anu proDaoiy
will testify either that day-
or on
Monday. Meanwhile, Waite will Do
taken to the Tombs and held without
bail, charged with murder in the firsr
degree, the district attorney said to
night. Both Doctor Cornell and DonVnps followed hv Maior James A. Rvan.
Heiler were before the grand jury to
day. The jury was given copies of
the death certificates of both Mr.
Peck and his wife as filed with health
department.
The maid, whom the state regard
as the most important witness, told
the district attorney today that Dr.
Waite came into the kitchen where
she was preparing dinner and poured
something out of a bottle that he
told her was medicine into the soup
which afterwards was Tved to Peck
at the dentist's home. This occurred,
she said, about two days before, the
druggist s death.
he noticed that I'ecl: ate only a
WiSi: SSTiS
Leader Has Been Surround
ed by Soldiers.
CONFIRMATION LACK
ING AS TO DETAILS
Both American and Mexican
SoIHiers Are Said to Be Par
ticipating in the Effort to
Capture Leader of Bandits.
EL FASO March 23. Consul
Garcia announced tonight he had
received a telegram from General
Bertani that Villa was surround
ed at El Oso, five rniles southwest
of Namiquipa by 1 Mexican and
American troops ard that a decis
ive battle was imminent.
Eertsni caid the American troops
c.itc up following the defeat of
Villa earlier in the !ay by the Car
rznzictas at Santa Gertrudes.
Correspondent of
Associated Press
At Mexican Front
Tells of Invasion
First News Story from the had lost his way.
American Soldiers' Head"! Uel!t- Gorrell had been alone for 48
1 r ii i hours in the middle of a sand swept,
.quarters at Uolonia Lmblan uninhabited plateau on the borders of
Had from A. P. Reporter, j'-ake Frederico. formerly used for a
iwatering place for stock, but suffered
trODPCn M A ADC !onl-v slightly from exposure to the sun.
rOKLtU lUAKtnt- AKL ! His plane was Intact. With receipt of
HAD EN ROUTE SOUTH (today's report, all of the eight array
, aeroplanes which left here last Sun-
it i c T TL iday to fly to Casas Grandes have been
Uncle Sam s Men Trove 1 heir . aCp0unted for .
Endurance Under the Most The. flyer explained that shortly af
Truin a rirrnmehnrM nA :tPr ,pe s'ar- ne 1o!" ot the Other
Surprise the Mexicans.
(By Review Leased Wire)
ELf,SO, .. 23 The fol
lowing dispatcii from the Associat
ed Press correspondent at the
front in Mexico is the first com
plete story of the crossing of the
border of the punitive expedition
sent to avenge 'he Columbus mas-
Facre.
HFArOlTRTEIt? V. S. pi'XiTlVlc',,)nrulo'i('1 American camping place on
EXPEDITION NEAR COLONIA Dl lV-!,he agon trail, about six miles south
LAN. CHIHCAIirA, MEXICO. March I ,st- There he placed a note telling
o KV ..oo-.m tinin m i v.1 imihiu v i of his whereabouts and condition on a
m..
Mrr-h 231 Reaching here by
forced march that demonstrated the,
endurance of the :.oldier and obviously
..... .
r.n'a.-.eo tne .Mexicans, several inou-
sard United States troops, cavalry,
infantry and artillery, were scattered
today between this point and the north
ern boundary of the state of Guerrero,
intent on the task of capturing or kill
ing Francisco Villa in the shortest
lo.-sible time and exterminating the
bandit band with which he raided Co
lumbus. New Mexico, and slaughtered
nine civilians on March 9.
Troop movements and dispositions
however, are shrouded in the strictest
?ecrecv. hy order or tne war Depart
Mexico occurred
ment. rne entry into Mexico occurreo
at 12:07 t. m. March 15th. At that
n'oment the American colors, with tha
s-tnmlards of the Thirteenth Cavalry
nrd two hundred men of which beat
off Villi's raiders despite the efforts
of the Mexican briirands, were carried
over the boundary bv the color guard.
Colonel Herbert J. Sloeum. command
ing the Thirteenth Cavalry, was the
first commanding officer to cross. He
chief of f-taff to Get. .To'in J.Pershing,
who commands the punitive expedition
This was column number one. con-
sjstine of infpntrv. artillery and caval-i
rv and burdened with heavy wagon
trnii'. It moved rather slowly and
.nned the first nifht at Palonia-:. a
filthy village of adobe huts and "go
downs" seven miles below the border,
south of Colubu.
Column number two entered Mexico
from Culberson's Ranch, fifty miles
oiuh of Hachita. N. M. General Persh -
nir. who nan accompanies ne nrst col
umn tiart of the way to Palomas. re
turned to Columbus the same after
noon, racing to Culberson's in an aulo
p ohile and taking command of the
second or flying column. He drove itlieht motor cars, who
-ore ilmn 110 miles over the desert of i Patched to investigate
Chihuahua in twenty-two hours of act-( trucks had been attacked and their
iihl marching. The official records ; dri'-ers were missing,
show that spies dotted the route of) Mai. F. Stockle. in command, sn
he first column, hut the men of the, ponped that his investigations proved
secend had forged their way fifty miles j that the reports were unfounded.
into the country before a single native
was seen : and to the patent surprise
ni iVo .Mexicans, rencnen neip rim-.
night exactly 42 hours after crossing
the border at 3:17 Thursday morning.
!n this column every man was mount
ed and the lumbering wagon trains
were supplanted by army mules which
mmle the entire distance under heavv
packs with the loss of only three of
their number.
lottery P. of the Sixth Field Artil
'ery, commanded bv Captain Edgar H.
Vule and Lieut. Charles P. George,
forced a unit of the flying column.
While the cavalry traversed Hails
thronch the "Mai Pais" or Bad Coun
iy, of the Sierra Mndre mountains.
(Continued on Page ",)
Pougfas Greatly Worried Over Action
of Gen. Calles9 Troops Along the Border
LIEUT. GORRELL
RESCUED IN
Army Transports Find Miss
ing Aviator Far from the
Beaten Track. Had Been
Without Focd for 24 Hours
(By Review Leased Wire.)
COLL'MIll'S, March 23 Lieut. Kd
car S. Goirell of the I nued States
Aero Corps who has been missing
since last Monday, was found today
thrt" miles south of Ascension by a
r. ctor truck train under Lieutenant J.
L. Parkington. 20th Infantry, accord
ing to reports made today to military
headquarters here. Lieut. Gorrell was
uninjured but was out of gasfcline and
1 planes and missed his way. After Ity-
jing for miles over the surrounding
country in an effort to determine his
whereabouts, he was forced to alight
on the plateau because of a leaking
fuel tank. The gasoline oozed away
and he was unable to find the leak in
the darkness.
There were no signs of human habi
tation and no vegetation on the hiuht
(except burned clumps of bunch grass.
He finally made his way to a recently
a.s,lrK wn"'" "rove nrnny in inn
ground near tne trail. Heing unwilling
i 1p;ivp his P1""" unprotected, he
1 1 1 il u l.ia vav hnflr In ihu T -i I.' a u-ith
.
he realization that if he attempted to
find a villae he probably would wan
der in the hills at the risk of encoun
tering bandits or wild animals. He
said he was confident that his note
would be found before the three days
rations with which he was supplied
gave out.
When he was rescued he nad been
without food for twenty-four hours and
said that he had about determined to
atte-rpt to find his way to succor. They
found him sitting under the wing of
jh'8 I,,anP an attempt to shade him
self rrom the intense glare or tne sun,
"If was a lonsr. lonesome wait." he
said. "One in which I could not help
but feel that I was face to face with
death. P.ut I was comforted by the
thought that some of the American
troons on their wav to Casas Grandes
couldn't help but find my note. Yet.
there were times when I was about
ready tn give up."
Aboard the trucks which rescued
him were several barrels of gasoline
and with the aid of some tools obtain
ed from the truckmen. Gorrell solder
ed his tank and me in a flight which
he predicted won'd end in Casas Grin
des in ;n hour. He left the earth with
s wave of the hand to the oldier on
the trucV triin. as he shouted. "I'll get
there this time, hoys." For several
Hnys aero nlpne scouts and cavalrymen
from Cisco Grandes have been search
ing the hills of porihern Chihuahua
for -nme !rce of Lieut Gorrell or of
his Plane. When he failed to report
today, armv men practically gave up
hone of his safely.
With thP truck truin arrivin" todav
enme a living "ouadron of soldiers In
had been dis
repor'" 'hat
AGREEMENT IS EXPECTED
NEW YORK. March 23 Under an
aereen ent rrched today by the sub
committee of the anthracite coal oper
Ptors and miners that is considering
demands made bv the workers In the
hard coal fields, the terms and condi
tions of the agreement which expires
March 31. will be extended to nego
tiations now pending are rompleted.
The miners will remain at work until
la settlement is reached or it is found
impossible to agree. Anv contract
which nitiv be negotiated after April 1
will be retroactive so far as if con
cerns provisions for a new a;o scale.
DESERT
Military Governor of Sonora
Reported to be Concentrat
ing Soldiers for Future Use
at Cabullona.
! DIEGUEZ IS CALLED
! FOR BIG CONFERENCE
i
General Serrano On His Way j
from Hermosillo with 4,000 j
to Reinforce Guard Along
Chihuahua-Sonora Line.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
DOI GLAS, March 23. Reports that
approximately 2mo de facto Mexican
troops had been seen by I'nifed States
soldier observers marching into Agua
Prieta from the southeast, early this
afternoon coupled ' with an apparent
verification from sources in the Mexi
can town, usually reliable, served to
arouse much apprehension here to
night. Gen. P. Elias Calles, military gov
ernor of Sonora. stated, however, that
no troops had arrived, and that on
the other hand. 250 of the 1000 men
stationed there had been sent to Cab
ullona, lg miles south, today.
In Douglas civil circles, the appar
ent change of the military in patrol
ling the city was the chief cause of
uneasiness. It is currenly reported
that the American troops have decid
ed to make no move which would
serve to indicate to the de facto
forces that the slightest apprehension
is felt here.
This would explain the peculiar
troop disposition in the city. Only a
small provost guard patrols the streets
as in ordinary times. However, the
smelters, city water plant and other
public utilities are guarded by infan
try detachments. Camp Harry J.
Jones, in which American soldiers are
quartered about a mile east of the
city, is not entrenched.
Current reports, credited by many
local people, say that Gen. Calles Is
assembling a large force at Cabullona.
Calles denies this. In an interview
today he said that Cabullona is merely
a small camp and not a concentration
point. He declared that there were
no more than eight hundred men there
at present.
Gen. Calles also said that Prig. Gen.
Arnulfo Gomez, his second in com
mand, is now en route from Hermo
sillo to Moctezuma with four thou
sand men. but these are to reinforce
the guards along the Sonora-Chihua
hua border, to guard against a possi
ble western movement of Villa
The military governor also is quot
ed as saying that Gen. M. G. Diegue.
commander of the de facto forces in
the operations against the Yaquis. has
started for Queretaro, having been
summoned there for a conference by
Venustiano Carranza, head of the de
facto government. Gen. Francisco It.
Serrano, who was displaced by Die
guez, has again taken command of the
Yaqui campaign. Sixty thousand
rounds of ammunition for Gen. Calles
arrived here by express today. It
probably will not be sent across to
Agua Prieta for delivery until to
morrow. '
The feeling of apprehension in
Douglas was made evident late today.
A number of telegrams addressed to
Senators Henry F. Ashurst and Mar
cus A. Smith and Congressmen Carl
Hayden were sent by prominent local
men. urging that the War Department
officials be interviewed at once and
representations be made to them that
orders should be issued to the troops
stationed here, so they could adequate
ly patrol IHniglas and afford protec
(Continued on Page Two.)
FUNSTON PUZZLED
(By Review Leased Wire)
SAN ANTONIO. March 23. With a
message from Gen. Hell before him
confirming his report of yesterday
that General Luis Herrera had revolt
ed with two thousand men in Chihua
hua, and evidence at hand, from un
official sources, denying the alleged
revolt. Gen. Funston was as puzzled
tonight as to the exact state of affairs
as he was this morning.
Gen. Ilcll was the first to in'urri
Gen. Funston that Herrera was re
ported to have joined Villa in his
fight against the I'nited States. Gen.
Funston instructed Gen. I'.ell to in
vestigate the report and to inform
him of developments. A message laie
today that he hail "confirmed" his re
port of yesterday was Gen. Bell's re
ply. He did not report additional facts
concerning the number of troops re
volting. To offset Gen. Bells statement a
message from El Paso quote! Gen.
irsvira and Consul Andres Garcia in
denial, the consul at Laredo submitted
a denial and Samuel Belden. consul
here for Carranza. made public a
BELL REPOBTS
CHIEFTAIN AS
Till
I CAUSE
Commander at El Paso De
clares that His Information
of Previous Day Concern
ing Mexican Leader is True.
SEVERAL DENIALS
MADE TO RUMOR
Chief Said to Have Broken
with First Chief Because He
Felt it Disloyal to Permit U.
S. Troops Cross Border..
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO. March 23 Gen. Luis
Herrera has revolted from Gen. Car
ranza and has declared that he will
resist with all his power the entry of
American troops into Mexico but is
still opposed to Villa, according to re
poits from sources believed reliable
received here today.
The news of Herrera's disaffection
was considered sufficiently authentic
for Gen. Bell to telezraph Funston at
jSan Antonio that he believed the re-
von oi i ne i arranzista general true.
General Rell added lo his message,
however, the emphatic denial or Her
rera's revolt issued today by the Car
ranza consul. Garcia, which was sup
ported by telegrams said to bave been
teceived from Gen. Herrera himself
and Gen. Gutierrez. Carrailza's field
chief.
Gen. Herera has long been a person-'
at enemv of Villa. His position is
said lo be that the de facto govern
ment has hetrave-J Mexicans in per
mitting the soldiers of the I'nited
States to enter Me!can territory and
ihar this betrayal outweighs whatever
offenses Villa has comniitT"d.
Close upon this apparent confirma
tion of Herrera's position word was
brought here tonight by Garcia Flores.
a Siii-nish merchant of the" city of Chi
huahua, that Villa had held up a train
on which he was traveling, at Mocte
zumn. e'khty-tive miles northeast from
Nn'niinrna. where the Carranza au
thorities have insisted the bandit chief
was located. Flores is well known in
business circles in Fl Paso.
"We were traveling north from Chi
huahua City." he said, "pnd were near
ing Mocirzun a. on Wednesday af'.er
noon. when we noticed a large force
of "-en. mounted and on foot, sur
rounding the station According fo
my be-f estirvnte there must bave
been 1"rt0 in all.
"When we reached the station we
were ama7e;l to see Puncho Villa him
self en'er the train. We had supposed
he was nunv miles to the snu'h. He
wa'ked through eve-y car declaring h
wn searching for Americans and that
he wou'd ki'l any he found. "I am not
fighting Mexican." he announced, 'ex
cept the First Chief and those traitors
with him who have turned Mexico ov
er to the Americans."
"Villa stopped to chat to some
friends of his who were on the train
(Continued on Page 2)
OVED THE TWO
message he said he haj received from
Gen. Herrera in Chihuahua, dated to
day. In this message Gen. Herrera
denied that he had revolted, adding
that on the contrary be was "ready
to fight Villa as energetically as pos
sible." General Funston transmitted to the
War Department the message Irom
Gen. Bell and anxiously awaited the
result of the investigation the State
lvpartment had begun through its
consular representatives in Chihua
hua Torrvon and Durango.
Nor did Gen. Funston's reports of
Gen. Pershing's column increase. The
day passed without a report from Gen.
Pershing, making this the fourth day
Gen. Funston has been ignorant of
development south of Casas tirandes.
He sent Gen. Pershing instructions
today to send more complete informa
tion regarding the deelopment nnd
another message warning him of the
reported activities of ,en.' Herrera.
The receipt of this communication
whs acknowledged at Casas Grandes.
but late today no report hail been received.
I '
