I TToday's Metal Prices PjTlv fl aa "l'VI'ivXvi'v I 4 P. M. CITY EDITION 1 II
quoted; copper, quiet; electrolytic, lllJ ' jF L 'tIL C V v . X WEATHER Utah: Clearing and Kit
j $28.008.50; June and nearbyj y V- Colder Tonight With Frost; Saturday K ID
11 - FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. '
H Forty-slxth Year-No. 72. Price; pive Centfc OGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, MARCH 24, 1916. Entered as'Sacond Claa, Matter at lha Portofflca. Ogdcn, UUK " fj
Two Colums of American Troops are in the
Vicinity of Namiquipa, Villa's Supply Base
GENERAL PERSHING ESTABLISHES
BASE ON MIT CHIEF'S TRAIL
Temporary Headquarters Are Established 55 Miles South of
Casas Grandes on Way to Namiquipa Is Official Report
to Commander Funston Severe Dust Storms
Hinder Aeroplane Scouting General Pershing
j Asks for Additional Motor Trucks for
I Movement of Supplies.
t
Douglas, Arizona, March 24. General P. Elias Calles,
military governor of Sonora, received a telegram today from
General Enriquez, military governor of Chihuahua, stating
that five columns of Carranza troops were closing in on Villa
and his bandits near Namiquipa and that, with the aid of the
Americans, Villa would not be able to escape.
San Antonio, Texas, March 24.
General Pershing reported to General
Funston today that two columns of
the American expeditionary force
, were In the vicinity of Namiquipa
where he said Villa was last report
ed. No mention of other operations
were made. This report, dated today,
was the first in which General Fun
ston had referred to movements of
General Pershing since Monday.
He said he had established a tem
porary base at Valle, 55 miles south
of Casas Grandes, on the way to
Namiquipa, Severe dust storms had
made Impossible the use of aero
planes, his report said
General Pershing added that, unless
permlsiBon could be secured to use
the Northwestern railway for the
, movement of supplies, additional mo-
t tor trucks would be required.
El Paso, Texas. March 24. No word
had come to military headquarters
hero early today to throw a light of
confirmation on a report that United
States troops and the Carranza army
had surrounded Villa and his men and
a battle was imminent. The report
was received by Mexican Consul An
dreas Garcia.
The Villa outlaws were said to be
hemmed in at El Oso. about five miles
south of Namiquipa where Villa had
fled after a conflict with the Carran
zistas at Santa Gertrude's. Villa, ac
cording to a dispatch from General
Bertanl, Carranza commander In the
field of operations, made a stand In
the Santa Clara canyon near Santa
Gertrude's but was driven out v.ith a
loss of several men killed and one
hundred horses captured.
Hard Blow to Villa.
The loss of the horses was a hard
blow to Villa, It was said, as he de
pends upon the high quality of the
mounts of his men to execute move
ments from place to place and thereby
( throw off his pursuers. In all of VII-
la's raids he has seized scores of hors
! e3 and these have been corraled in
various sections of the Chihuahua dis
trict so that as the Vllllstas dash from
Ione section to another they can su
ply themselves with fresh mounts
held in reserve for this purpose.
News of Battle Awaited.
Information regarding the inipend
. lng battle at El Oso was expectantly
I , awaited today by Consul Garcia and
General Gavlra at Juarez. Brigadier
'. ; General Bell at Fort Bliss was without
' : information regarding General Persh
1 : ing's forces whose strategic moves In
i ' the Chihuahua district have been
i , cloaked In strict silence. For several
days General Pershing has made no
I report regarding his movements to
his superiors. Apparently General
, Pershing Is making his own plans of
campaign and executing them without
reporting his every move to Major
I General Funston and the war depart
1 ment,
' El Oso a Fine Country.
The El Oso district, where fighting
1 is reported, is considered by Ameri
cans of long residence in Mexico to be
i the fineat pasture and farming coun
try, u is noted especially for Its fine
1 potatoes, but it also produces the best
, quality of -wheat and corn and a nat
ural moo hot irmws knee-high In the
SJ meadows. Although the farms have
aV Buffered much from raids, the peons
'i Btlll persist In their labor and Villa
t is sure ot food and livestock there as
j well as pasture and water. The val-
fl leyB are wldo and flat, cut ofC by
) ranges of hills -well wooded with scrub
4 oak on their lower borders and sugar
JJ Pine on the higher parts. Owing to
',i the high altltudo the nights are cold,
1 but the days rather hot. If Villa Is
A driven out of this country Into the
rfl 8ierrafl, he wIU take all supplies such
I , as are now obtainable in El Oso.
C ! VIHa Definitely Located.
. At Fort Bliss and in other well n-
2 formed circles the report that Villa
hud been definitely located at El Oso
I ' as generally credited. It was polnt
! ed out, however, that this did not nec-
t:K ssarily Indicate the bandit's early
X . capture, as the character of the coun
try would aid him In escaping if he
-j wished to break up his command and
avoid an actual engagement.
In the same quarter there is a dls-
,4 Position to believe tbat General Hoi
S& j rera Probably has not joined Villa,
I' but that he has had some sort of rup-
: tore with the Carranzistas regarding
' g '- the entrance of American troops into
I j MIco.
fM i General Bell Holding Daily Meetings.
m:t , Genoral Bell is holding dally meotr
Hi- ings wlth Mexican CoubuI Garcia to
ftl. Hbcub8 the situation here and else-
ffflm' We. Goneral Bell never has met
1 L
General Gavirn, the Carranza comman
der In Juarez, but the two are keeping
in close touch through Consul Garcia.
Troop movements are going on, on
both sides o fthe border it was learn
ed, but It was authoritatively stated
that only minor assignments are con
cerned. Fifty-four additional motor trucks
arrived today to be sent to Columbus
for the use of the expeditionary for
ces New consignments of cavalry
mounts also reached Fort Bliss.
Washington, March 24. American
Consul Letcher at Chihuahua, today
reported there was no truth In the
reported revolt of General Herrera
and the Carranza garrison at Chihua
hua. Although General Funston and Gen
eral Bell on the border have received j
reports confirming the story of the
revolt, which they believe to be true,
the dispatch from Consul Letcher who
is on the ground and has headquarters
at the place where the revolt was
said to have occurred, is taken by of
ficials here as confirming the state
ments of Carranza officials that no
such revolt has occurred.
Herrera Loyal to Carranza.
Consul Letcher's dispatch reported
that General Herrera was in command
of the de facto troops there and was
"loyal to General Carranza."
His report is regarded as removing
one of the most menacing features of
the Mexican situation.
Major-General Funston sent this
telegram to the war department:
"General Herrera In a telegram to
General Gavlra strongly denies all re
ports that he has gone over to Villa,
General Gutierrez, governor of Chi
huahua, in a letter to General Gavirn
also strongly denies that General Her
rera has gone over to Villa."
Quiet In Durango Region.
State department dispatches from
Durango, San Luis Potosi. Nogales
and other points reported quiet.
Americans were leaving the Durango
region but there was no anti-American
outbreak.
American Consular Agent Williams
at Torreon who left his post was ord
ered out by the American Rubber com
pany which employed him. He Is in
the regular consular service.
The navy department had no reports
from Tampico despite efforts to reach
the battleship Kentucky by wireless.
The gunboat Machlas at Tampico also
failed to respond. Radio officers
thought atmospheric conditions along
the gulf coast probably prevented
communication last night
Border agents have been instructed
to watch ammunition shipments Into
Mexico with care. At the state de
partment it was said the orders meant
that no ammunition would be permit
ted to reach Carranza forces whose
loyalty to the de facto government
was in doubt.
Infantry Ordered to El Centre
One battalion of the 21st Infantry
was ordered from Vancouver barracks
to El Centro, California, to reinforce
the border patrol. The order was Is
sued at the request of Major-General
Bell, commanding the western department.
The question ui tiumib - """
al guard for border duty, to release
regulars -for service in Mexico, was
discussed at today's cabinet meeting
but It was decided there was no pros
pect of such action at this time.
The cabinet was told that there was
sentiment in congress to protect the
constantly lengthening line of commu
nications of the Amorican punitive ex
pedition by sending more regulars In
to Mexico and placing guardsmen
along the border.
Major General Funston, however,
had not asked for additional troops,
It was said today, and war depart
ment officials did not believe mobiliza
tion of state troops now was neces
sary, after tho cabinet officials show
ed " they feared a mobilization of
guardsmen would have a disquieting
effect in Mexico. They expressed con
fidence that American troops in Mex
ico wore In no danger. Should large
bodies of Carranza troops go over to
Villa, howover, the question of calling
-ouJLtbe guard will be considered.
Arizona Sounds Alarm.
Washington, March 24. A telegram
from D. A. Richardson, Douglas, Ariz.,
saying Mexican troops were massing
across the line from Douglas pointing
out that the Columbus massacre could
easily -be repeated in tho Arizona town
and asking for "help before it was too
late' was mado public today, -by Son-
ator Ashurst of Arizona. t
Senator Ashurst said he knew Rich
ardson and regarded his information
as authoritative.
"I am giving this telegram for pub
lication," said Senator Ashurst, "and
will not even submit It to tho senate
because it would be useless. I am
tired of trying to get anything done."
Richardson's telegram follows:
"Mexican general has forty pieces
of artillery and 3000 cavalry stationed
ten blocks from the center of Dou
glas. Seven thousand cavalry six
miles south of Douglas. We have
only 1S00 infantry, 300 cavalry and
four pieces of artillery. Our troops
stationed two miles east of Douglas.
Am reliably Informed that it would
take one hour for our troops to reach
Douglas in case of night attack. Our
army forbidden by administration
from making any activo defense prep
arations for fear Mexicans might mis
construe such preparation. Mexicans
have entrenched against United States
side and have barbed wire entangle
ments. We have no entrenchment.
Mexican troops could easily repeat Co
lumbus massacre In Douglas on much
larger scale and return to Mexico with
similar loss. All of these statements
can be verified by our army officers
here. Help us if you can before It is
too late."
Conflicting rports of the massing of
Carranza troops on the border are re
ceived. Consuls In northern Mexico,
under orders of the state department
to investigate the troop movements,
reported that they found no massing
of troops In the northern sections.
Douglas, Ariz., March 24. General
P. Elias Calles, military governor of
Sonora, today again denied reports
that a largo number of Mexican troops
have reached Agua Prieta, opposite
here from the south. Investigation
did not reveal an increased number
of troops in Agua Prieta.
Gomez Palacio, March 23, via El
Paso Junction, March 24. Nine mem
bers of the American colony here left
i today for Monterey on a heavily
guarded train and the balance of the
colony is making arrangements to
leave at the earliest opportunity. To
day's party probably will make their
way from Monterey to Laredo. In the
party were Mr. and Mrs. E. O. Mens
back, Mr. and Mrs. Rowland Bala,
Mrs. Coen and her child, Charles
Wulff, R. B. Washington and George
H. Pound. '
The people of Durango are showing
no disposition to make any movo at
present.
Vancouver, Wash.,March 24. Bound
for El Centro, California, where they
will go on patrol duty on the Mexi
can border, tho Third battalion of the
Twenty-flrBt infantry left here today
on a special train over the Southern
Pacific railroad. The battalion con.
sists of 285 men and 12 officers, in
command of Major James T. Dean.
Marfa, Texas, March 24. The situa
tion at Presidio Is causing much un
easiness and reports are current that
Chic Cono, formerly Villa bandit, is
about to rebel. Reinforcements of the
Twenty-fourth infantry and Four
teenth cavalry are expected to be sent
to Presidio.
Conditions at Tampico.
Washington, March 2-1. First ad
vices from Tampico, where the situa
tion has been causing alarm, came to
day to the state department reporting
conditions uncertain. The garrison
seems in oontrol of tho situation.
Some 2000 Americans, tho dispatch
said, would pass through there If they
left Mexico.
NO FIGHT REPORT
FROM PERSHING
General Mentions Hindrance
of Aero Scout Duty by Rag
ing Dust Storms Does
Mention Battle.
Columbus, N. M., March 24. No
word was received at tho military
base today from Brigadier General J.
J. Pershing's expeditionary command,
either by wireless "or courier. A mo
tor truck train which was expected to
arrive early in the day, failed to re
port but it was believed it may have
been delayed by tho dust of a norther.
With the interruption which, it was
asserted, was not due to a defection
in the wireless, numbers of rumors,
all apparently without foundation be.
came current here. One had It that
American troops were engaged In a
battle with Villa In the vicinity or
south of Casas Grandes.
Another had it that the bandit and
u small band wore surrounded In the
same vicinity by American cavalry
men who rapidly were closing in on
him.
The rumors could neither be con
firmed nor denied by military authori
ties hero because of tho absence of
dispatches. Belief was expressed,
however, that all was well with tho
American forces below Casas Gran
des. A dispatch received from General
Pershing later, assorted that dust
Btorms, which have been raging, have
mado it impossible for aviators to do
scouting duty. It is known also that
the Btorms havo interfered with troop
movements. No mention was mado ot
a batUq in General Pershing's report.
WHERE U. S. TROOPS ARE CHASING VILLA
r I ni i V i r frgacE L PASO
-ccRnrror ' ' if 7 iLUCCRQ yK w
d&3fc ft I '
S",V3L XN) TlL 3.ooMW:ofrCARrtl2AL ,a 'oj
j Vi ?h Jus.Mittotti Vl 4GALUCGO X
HERRERA MAKES
STOUT DENIAL
Wires Governor Calles Em
phatically Repudiating Story
of His Revolt Will Push
Fighting Against Villa.
Douglas, Ariz., March 24. The Mox
lean troops operating near Namiquipa,
according to General Enriquez, were
those under tho command of General
Gavazoa, General Garza, Colonel Cano,
Colonel Salas and Colonel Hernandez.
General Calles also received a tele
gram today from General Luis Her
rera at Chihuahua City in which the
latter denied emphatically that he "had
revolted againBt the Carranza govern
ment and had joined "Villa. "I deny
with all emphasis these reports given
to the press by reactionaries who wish
to stir up trouble among the Mexi
cans," the telegram said. "I intend
to prosecute tho campaign against
Villa with more energy than before."
Ammunition for Calles.
Sixty cases of rifle cartridges wore
turned over to Ives G. Lelevler, consul-general
here of the de facto gov
ernment by an express company and
later were delivered to General CalleB
at Agua Prieta. Each case contained
one thousand rounds.
Consul Lelevler stated that he also
endeavored to have tho American cus
toms authorities lift the ban placed re
cently on the exportation of dynamite
to Sonora, sufficiently to allow the
Democratic Mining company, at Cana
nea, to obtain a supply of explosives.
One thousand employes of the mine,
he said, will be thrown out of employ
ment within a few days unless tho
company can obtain tho dynamite
needed In blasting for ore.
Governor Enriquez also telegraphed
that the reports concerning the revolt
of General Herrera were false and an
effort by the "radicals" to cause trou
ble between tho Carranza government
and the United States.
00
YOUNG DENTIST
TO BE ARRAIGNED
Grand Jury Investigating
Deaths of John E. Peck and
His Wife, Alleged Vic
tims of Poisoning.
New York, March 24. District At
torney Swan said today that ho would
arraign Dr. Arthur Warren Walto for
the murder of his father-in-law, John
E. Peck, a millionaire druggist of
Grand Rapids, Mich., as soon as
Walte's physical condition would per
mit bringing him to court. Tho
young dentist is under arrest at his
apartment and so far recovered from
tho effects of narcotics taken Wednes
day and yesterday that the district at
torney hoped to produce him In court
today.
Tho grand jury investigation of the
deaths of John E. Peck and his wife
in Dr. Walte's Riverside Drivo homo
under circumstances which led the au
thorities to believe they were victims
of poison, continued today.
Waite Under Influence of Drugs.
Since Wednesday Dr. Waite had
been under the lnfluenco of drugs tak-,
en, he said, to Induce sleep and no co
herent statement could be obtained
from him. Meanwhile the discovery
of arsenic in the 'body of Mr. Peck led
to the order for the dentist's arrest.
Among the exhibits upon which the
authorities are working are medical
books tnken from Dr. Walte's library
containing marked passages describ
ing the effect of poison such as that
alleged to havo caused the death of
Mr. Pock.
Body Limp After Five Hours.
Undertakers who have prepared
Mrs. Peck's body for shipment to De
troit recalled todny that they were
-compelled to nsuko groat haste -to
place the body on board the train leav
ing here on tho day of her death. One
of them said the body was still limp
five hours after embalming, Indicat
ing to him that there was something
present strong enough to counteract
the effects of the embalming fluid.
Dr. Walte's prominence as a sports
man and tennis player has increased
the national Interest In the case.
He won the Indoor metropolitan
championship here early in the season
and figured in the national indoor
championship when he was defeated
bv R. Llndloy Murray who won the
title.
Now York, March 24, Soon after
Dr. Arthur Warren Waite, accused of
poisoning his father-in-law, John E.
Peck, wealthy drug manufacturer of
Grand Rapids, Michigan, had denied
the charges today. District Attorney
Swann announced that he had obtain
ed a voucher from a druggist signed
with Walte's name for the purchase
of a quantity of arsenic on March.. 9,
three days before Peck's death.
District Attorney Swann said the
druggist's record showed that Waite
had purchased enough arsenic to kill
several men Dr. Waite, in denying
to Assistant District Attorney Broth
ers the charge of poisoning his father-in-law
said he had never purchased
arsenic In his llfo. When Informed of
tho druggist's record he became "sud
denly glum and refused to talk,"
Brothers reported.
The district attorney also examined
Miss Catherine Peck, the aged sister
of the drug manufacturer. He an
nounced that ho had learned from her
that she had Igven $40,000 to Waite
to Invest in mortgage bonds but In
stead of doing so ho had used $30,000
in a speculative account with Wall
street brokers and sent $10,000 to his
brother.
uu
ADMIRAL FISKE
BEFORE HOUSE
Critic of Naval Administration
and Storm Center of Big
Row Has Opportunity
to Air His Views.
Washington, March 24. Rear Ad
miral Fiske, the storm center In the
row between the attackers and defend
ers of the efficiency of the navy, fi
nally got before tho house naval com
mittee today after a long contest be
tween the two factions. Since his re
tirement as 0110 of Secretary Daniels'
aides, Admiral Fiske has been a con
stant critic of the naval administra
tion. Today ho testified that In his
opinion the navy could not be put
"into condition" wjthln five years and
that no matter how much congress ap
propriated it could not bo put Into con
dition unless tho system which directs
it was as good as that of any foreign
navy.
FREE SUGAR BILL
BEING DISCUSSED
Washington, March 24. Serious
consideration was given by the senate
finance committee to appropriate not
only to repeat the free sugar clause of
the tariff, but to Increase the present
tariff by a half cent a pound and levy
the production tax of one cent a pound
on all sugar produced In the United
States to raise emergency revenue.
GENERAL OTIS
NOT IMPROVING
Los Angeles, Calif., March 24. At
tending physicians Bald today that
General Harrison. Grey Otis, editor of
the Los Angeles Times, 111 with mild
pneumonia waB about tho same." He
passed a fair night but it was thought
advisable to give him a mild stimu
lant. Yesterday ho passed tho day
without taking any opiates. His con
dition was said -not ta-have-improveoV
- J
1
HEAVY FIGHTING BETWEEN GERMANS
AND RUSSIANS ON NORTHERN FRONT
j I'
Berlin Admits Enemy Made Some Gains With Heavy Guns, i
But Claims Russian Successes Were Not Permanent 1 1
Artillery Fighting Continues on French Front l
East of the Meuse German Bombardment Is B j '
Less Intense Submarines Sink Two fl
More Neutral Ships, a Norwegian HI j
Steamer and a Danish Bark.
London, March 24, 4:25 p. m. Another Danish steam- fli '
ship has been sunk the Christianiashund of 1 ,07 1 tons. Her 1 j
entire crew of 22 was saved. I!(
The British steamship Fulmar, 1 ,270 tons, also has been l j
sunk. Eighteen of her crew were rescued. j
Paris, March 24, 11:45 a. m. There
has been no change in the situation
around Verdun since yesterday, ac
cording to the war office announce
ment this afternoon. West of the
Meuse the night was calm. East of
the river there were intermittent bom
bardments. The text of the statement followa:
"In the Argonne our batteries last
night cannonaded with energy the en
emy positions in the wood of Malan
court. Near Hill No. 285 we caused
the explosion of a mine and occupied
the resulting crater.
West of the Meuse the night pass
ed quietly. East of the river there
was intermittent bombarding in the
vicinity of Bouaumont and Bamloupe.
"In the Woevre there have been out
bursts of artillery fire in the sectors
of Moulalnville and Eparges, both
sides taking part.
"There has been no other develop
ment of Importance on the rest of
the front"
Violent Artillery Duels.
Berlin, March 24, via London, 3r20
p. m. The text of the German war
statement is as follows:
""The violence of the artillery duels
increased considerably at times in the
Champagne on the Somme-py-Souain
high road and In the Argonne, and in
the Meuse district as far as the Mo
selle. "Following up our successes of
Wednesday, we occupied another cou
ple of trenches west of Haucourt, On
this occasion the numbers of prison
ers increased to thirty-two officers
and S79 men.
Heavy Fight With Russians.
"Eastern theatre: While during the
day the Russians collected their for
ces only for a strong advance against
the bridgehead at Jacobstadt east of
Buschoeff, they undertook during the
night repeated attacks north of Mltau
Jacobstadt railway, and an attempt to
take ub by surprise south of Dvinsk
and exhausted themselves In uninter
rupted fierce storm attacks against
our front nort hof Wiedsy. All their
attacks broke down with heavy losses
111 umu.
"Further south there were no fresh
attacks.
"Balkan front: During the last few
days artillery duels, of no great Im
portance, developed repeatedly on
both sides of the Virdar in the neigh
borhood of Glevgell.
"An aeroplane belonging to an en
emy squadron, which attacked Volo
vec, west of Lake Dolran, was shot
down after an aerial battle. The ma
chine fell into the lake."
Success of Germans.
Berlin, March 24, via London, 3:20
p. m. Further successes have been
won by the Germans In the vicinity of
Haucourt, northwest of Verdun, array
headquarters announced today, two
additional trenches having been oc
cupied. On the Russian fronts tho vicious
attacks on the German linos in the
northern sector havo continued, both
northwest and south of Dvinsk. All
the assaults broke down, the state
ment declares.
German Wheat Crop.
Rome, via PariB, March 24, 12:20
a, m Reports received by tho In
ternational Agricultural Institute in
dicate that the Austro-Germans will
have by next September a reserve of
four hundred thousand tons of wheat
nnd rye, virtually the same reserve as
last September.
The Institute statisticians say that
the weather conditions warrant the
belief of fair crops in the central om
piroB and they are inclined to the
opinion that there will be no scarcity
of food supplies.
Before the war the average Hungar
ian wheat crop was 46,000,000 quin
tals This year it will probably be
41,000,000 quintals. The Hungarian
potato crop is estimated to bo seven
and two tenths percent bettor than
In 1914, and the maize crop four eigh
teenths of one per cent better.
German Loan Brilliant Success.
Berlin, March 24. By wireless to
Sayville. Dr. KaVl Helfferich, secre
tary of the imperial treasury, told the
relchstag today that the fourth Ger
man war loan had been a brilliant sue
cess, the subscriptions having reach
ed more than 10,600,000,000- marks.
Review of War Situation.
Paris. March 24. The lull in the
infantry fighting in the Verdun region
of France continues, the artillery,
however, keeping up Its active work. 1? '
The French guns have been ener- Kg !
getlcally cannonading the German Ml
positions in the Malancourt wood, on -IS'
the edge of the Argonne, northeast of . j fl '
Verdun. I S
East of the Meuse the German
bombardment appears to have dimln- S
ished in intensity. a '
Determined attacks by the "Russians B'
on the German northern front in the )
east continue. Berlin admits no per- t
manent successes for the Russians but
the Petrograd statements claim ad- s
vantages at various points. K
Sinking of two additional neutral l '
vessels is reported, the lost craft be- jij I
lng a Norwegian steamer and a Dan- III
ish bark. ft
Berlin claims today another slight S3 -
advance In the region west of Hau- ii
court, northwest of Verdun. Two ad- 5b
ditlonal trenches there were occupied.
Dutch Reports Denied.
Amsterdam, March 24, via London,
2:32 p. m. Press dispatches from Ber- D
lln state that Albert Ballin, director- It
general of the Hamburg-American 15
line, has telegraphed-to the "dlTe'ctor" - II
of the Holland-America line a denial Jjj
of reports that he had declared it was
Germany's intention to destroy neu-
tral shipping, adding that only the jjjj
friendliest feeling for Holland prevails J
in Germany. It j
American Minister Arrives. m
The Hague, March 24, via London, Hi,
1:25 p. m. Dr. Henry Van Dyke, '
American minister to The Nether- Q ,
lands, arrived here last evening after Hi
spending a brief vacation in the Unit- ;,
ed States. He was a passenger on I,
the steamer Rotterdam. U
nn a,
HEAVY FIGHTING
ON RUSSIAN LINE
Intense Fire Near Postavy 1
Damages German Entangle- J
ments and Front Line 1
Trenches.
Berlin, March 24, via London, March m
24, 12:03 p. m. The Importance of K
the struggle around Verdun naturally K
overshadows interest In the contest m
on the eastern front, but the latest m
dispatches show that hard fighting is Ui
in progress in the northern sector of It
the Russian line. H
The Russian drum fire became In-
tense on the evening of March 19. f,
More than 50,000 shells, chiefly of . I,
heavy caliber, fell over a small sec-
tlon of the front near Postavy. Ger- 1
man wire entanglements and the front
line trenches were damaged by this I
fire. I
German Front Pierced. ft
At night the Russians attacked in
thick waves. The first two waves f
were mowed down before they reach- 1
ed the entanglements. The third at-
tack pierced the German position on K
a front of less than 100 yards and tho m
assailants were ejected by a counter If
attack led In person by a regimental K
commander. At dawn the Russians M
made a fourth attack but it was B
Bmothered in the initial stages by
German artillery.
Four Russian divisions are said to Ik
havo participated in these movements. Jfj
The Germans were compelled to sura- It
mon few reserves. Their losBes were V
heavier than on the two preceding Rj
days of the fighting on account of tho
Russian drum fire, but it is asserted
that nevertheless they were surpris
ingly small.
Russ Active at Other Points.
Activity of the Russians at other
points of Field Marshal von Hinden
burg's front is less marked. Compara
tive quiet prevailed on March 19 along
the sector between WlBnlow and Na
rooz lakes, except for a strong night
attack of tho Russians which was re
pulsed. The losses sustained by the Rus-
slans in these encounters are said to
have been very heavy. Notwithstand
ing the severity of the actions, no J
concern Is evident here. The state f
of public fooling was expressed by a
correspondent who said: "The people
have no anxiety because they fcnow Hi
Hlndonbuxff .iathenv"
