I "9
I Iron County Record. 1
I WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." H
$ JUiil
I' "3fe V0LUME XXI" $1.50 PER YEAR CEDAR CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1916. 5 CTS. PER COPY. NUMBER 15 'JflH
I BOXING CONTEST
I ENDS FATALLY
'ft
Kid Olson Kills Rival for Purse
Offered for Boxing Exhi-
!' bition at Myton.
I BLOW TO JAW IN 7TH
ROUND CAUSES DEATH
Participants All Under Arrest What
' to Might 'Have Happened Hero
f t ' In Cedar City.
Cedar people will recall that thero
'" was considerable talk and negotia-
j tlons looking to u boxing contest in
Cedar City, to have been "pulled off"
' during' the Round-up at the B. A. C.
' last February; and some will remem
ber feeling disappointed when the city
t ' council and other officials Bcrvcd no
tice that the "mill" would not bo per-j-'
mitted, necessitating its being called
.oft". After reading the following ac-
count of an exhibition that was staged
, at Myton March 11th, as published by
f the Myton News, we all have good
. L -' reason to congratulate ourselves that
J-. ' B unortunate affair is not laid at
'' Bn our oor or rom wnnt we nro a
lrk: to learn at least one of the partici-
ySv pants in this disaster, "Kid Olson,"
ffi- was to have taken pait in the contest
' that it was sought to stage here. The
rV " News' account follows:
Before an audience numbering sov-
JL$V- tnty-ftve or eighty men and boys at
Pthe Myton opera house Saturday night
last two young men, Arthur Olsen and
John Babcock, by name, deliberately
fought each other through seven
rounds when Olsen administered a
iPWKjbotHcJ'TObr and from the effects
oT which he died a few hours later.
The contest was for a prize of $250
which was to go to the "best man."
And Olson proved the best man. He
killed his opponent.
The body of young Babcock lay in
the opera house until Sunday after
noon when Justice Dauwalder, acting
ns coroner, summoned a jury to hold
an inquest. M. Knudscn, Chas. Milne
and A. F. Maxwell were selected as a
". jury. After considerable deliberation
and the close questioning of several
witnesses who were present, the jury
returned the following verdict:
i "Wo the jury find that John R. Bab-
' cock came to his death by a blow de-
i livered to the jaw by one Arthur
r, Olson at 11:32 p. m., March 11th, in
a boxing contest on the stage of the
. " Myton opera house."
, $ CD. Stokes, tho promoter, had
mw heen in town ubout two weeks ar-
jlr,. - ranging for the "entertainment" He
i claims to be a commercial traveler and
" , carries prize lights as a side line
k wherever proper "encouragement is
$- given."
i Stokes in his own defense made the
2 ' following statement to a News report-
I - . or:
"I came to Myton as a commercial
,4 traveler selling portraits and brought
K in the two boys to match a boxing
. contest, if I could get a permit from
s the town and if there was any en-
i couragement from tho business men.
' I agreed to put up $250 of my own
, money as a stake. The Mayor and
the Council gave me encouragement
'? and the mayor and tho business men
'promised they were willing to boost
t the boxing contest. I paid $15 for the
, - - opera house."
Stokes' claim that he met with much
j - encouragement here seems to be borne
i & out by tho facts. Tho Free Press, a
"", newspaper owned by local business
' ,' men and W. H. Smart of Roosevelt,
,1 greeted the coming of promoter
' . Stokes cordially in tho following ar-
tide printed in its issue of Mar. 2nd:
"C. D. Stokes of Price, arrived in
Myton Friday, bringing with him two
boys of considerable reputation among
sporting pcoplo of tho state. Young
, v Battling Olson whose ability in tho
JML prize ""P. "rill put him in the running
C&Ht for the lightweight championship of
' " the world, and John Babcock who has
been making an enviable reputation
' " in tho ring of lute. The exhibition
will take place at the Myton opera
houHO Mar. 11. The principals will
compete for a prize of $250, winner
take all. They will do all of their
'i training in Myton. Olson has engaged
t training quarters at Doc Beaver's
j - (saloon) and Babcock at Sholton's
(saloon.) Tho public is invited to
i visit the training quarters and see the
bovs in action.
i "Mr. Stokes comes from Price well
" recommended and tho boxing exhibi
tion ho Is promoting WILL BE
CLEAN IN EVERY PARTICULAR."
Deputy Sheriff Geo, Mulvey, acting
1 under instructions from Sheriff Wat-
. kins, on Monday placed under arrest
tho following persons: C. D. StokoB,
(Continued oriast pag.)
JL J
ENDS CAREER OF
NOTORIOUS BEAR
Terror of Garfield County Range
for Past Ten Years is
Now Laid Low.
HAS KILLED HUNDREDS
OP VALUABLE CATTLE
Lucky Hunters Make Nice Haul for
Their Courageous Work in
Sinying Monster Grizzly.
Coyote, March 18. The famous old
grizzly bear, which for ten years has
been living on the choicest cattle on
tho range, has at last been killed. To
Chess Riddle and Rube Jolley the hon
or is due and tho "wake" was held
yesterday, in connection with the cel
ebration of St. Patrick's day.
It was Thursday, March 16, that the
old bear fell prey to the marksman
ship of the hunters and when they
brought the carcass homo there wus
great rejoicing. He measured eight
feet from tip to tip and weighed a
ton. Tho fat on his back was eight
inches thick and his fore-foot meas
ured 14 inches. The regular state
bounty for a grizzly is $25 and to this
was added $200 by local cattlemen.
The bounty, added to the value of tho
carcass and the hide, and premiums
showered on the nimrods by enthus
iastic ranchers, will net Mr. Riddle
and Mr. Jolley a neat sum for their
work.
Last fall the old grizzly crossed
over to the west side and after killing
a few head of cattle he was not in ev
idence again until last Wednesday,
"BJUlHUMLa cow belonging to Mr.
Riddle. Chess rode over to Mr. Jol
ley's ranch and the two set out on the
hot trail. They sighted him first a
bout 300 yards away and began shoot
ing with a 32-40 and a 25-35. 'Neurly
every shot, they said, hit the mark,
but only served to make the bear
angry. He chnsed tho hunters back
down the hill and then climbed again
toward the ridge and went out of
sight. The trail was now bloody and
easy to follow. Tho ranchers went
back after their horses and followed
the trail three miles before they
caught up again. Bruin was climbing
another hill. They aimed at tho back
of his head and both aimed true. The
bear fell forward, but was not yet
dead. They ran close and gave him
one more, in the ear. Ho staggered
to his feet and tried to give chase, but
was too far gone. He rose to his full
height, gave a terrific growl and death
cull, and pitched forward full length,
dead, almost at the very feet of tho
hunters. It was all over; tho old bear
had killed its last cow.
This particular bear began his raids
10 years ago. He was larger than
most bears in his youth, and grow still
larger and beenmo a menace and a
fear, greater and greater, as the sea
sons passed. His fame spread and
many nn attempt has been made to
bring him in, all unsuccessful until
this last; and there are those oven yet.
who aver that it was a handicup of old
age that proved his downfall that
the old grizzly1, was not nblo to "come
back."
The old bear's favorite meat was
choico young cow. His mctlfbd of at
tack was to jump on his victim's back,
bear her down, tear her open and eat
tho lungs and choicest portion of tho
carcass. One prominent ranchman
here, C. E. Rowan, declared tho bear
knew his brand; Mr. Rowan has been
the heaviest loser, but all have suf
fered. During tho past 10 or 12 sea
sons this same bear has killed hun
dreds of hend of choico cattle and the
losses he has inflicted have run way
into the thousands. Deseret Evening
News.
Bcttenson-Wcbstcr Wedding.
As we arc just closing our forms on
this issue, we learn of tho wedding
this evening of Leland Bettenson, a
student of B. A. C. from Circleville
and Miss Annette Webster of this city
who until recently has been employed
as a clerk In tho Cedar Sheep Associ
ation. Mr. Bettenson has the reputa
tion of being a good student and an
examplary young man, and tho only
objection we have to the match Is
that it is likely to remove from our
midst one of our sweetest girls as
well as one of our most talented mu
sicians. Everyone is acquainted with.
Miss Webster's benutiful soprano
voice, and she will bo greatly missed
if the young people decide to locate
elsewhere.
Tho Record offers slncero congratu
All the fruit that is out in bloom in
this section of the country is doomed
for destruction tonight, from tho ap
pearance of the weather.
SOME ECHOES FROM
THE STATEJOURNEY
Brigham Papers Where Tourney
Held, Give Credit Where
Credit is Due.
B. A. C. TEAM EASILY
OUTCLASSED OTHERS
Referred to ns Giants, With Brain and
Brawn and Skill and Endurance
"Back to the Farm."
The Box Elder News and Journal,
published at Brigham City, Box Elder
county, each give the B. A. C. basket
ball team a great "send-off" on tho
victory which it won in tho recent
nigh school tournament held at that
place. Following aro execrpts from
the News account of the games:
"B. A. C. Wins Tournament."
"The best Box Elder could do in tho
state basket ball tournament, was to
tie for third place. A number of cir
cumstances brought about this condi
tion, chief of which were two acci
dents that occured Saturday night,
and which resulted in tho 'lifting? of
Rufus Jeppson. He had already mado
five field baskets and the first half
ended with Box Elder in the lead by
one point. It was in the final moment
of the last half that ho got a bad
blow on the right leg which tied a
knot In the tendon and despite tho
vigorous treatment administered by
Coach RoBkelley, the muscle would not
straighten out and Rufus had to go.
Tho team was going like lightening
and the big Lehl five was having the
busiest time of its lifo to keep out of
thet way of the youngsters when tho
accident happened. When Jeppson
went out, the crisis had been passed
and the three point lead Lehl had
could not bo overcome. Norman
Watklna also suffered a bad strain of
a tendon but ho was able to continue
playing. These unfortunate accidents
cost Box Elder at least second place
for there wasn't any question in the
minds of the spectators of the ability
of the local five to clean up Lehl on
a close score. Tho game ended 27 to
24 favor Lehl.
"On Friday ovening the boys met
tneir moro than equals in the Branch
Agricultural College giants. When
the two teams appeared on the floor
together, the home boys almost looked
ike pigmies and during the game the
little fellows had tho big fellows jump
ing around in tho liveliest kind of
fashion. They never had a ghost of
a chance, however, for tho B. A. C.
was bigger and just ns fast, a fact
that was surprising after the showing
the farmers mado on the first evening
of tho tourney. They are a marvolous
five. Big, supple, fast as lightning
and heady, always playing tho game
with the most perfect team work.
They easlliy outclassed all other
teams and by all odds ought to have
gone through tho meet with a thou
sand per cent credit, They cleaned up
Box Elder 31 to 18 which does not be
gin to tell the story of tho battlo for
the farmers had to work every minute
of tho time to got tho ball through
the basket. Their superior size made
it possible to pass the ball with un
erring accuracy, becauso they could
throw high and cntch high, higher
than the local huskies could reach
with a jump. The .way the home
youngsters went after the big fellows
was some caution and good to look
upon, for the boys were in the game
from the first whistle to the last gun.
"Tho big farmers from Cedar City
romped homo with the championship
last night in a slow game with Lehl,
which coppers second place. Tho re
sult was never in doubt and tho big
fellows are fully entitled to their vic
tory. Coach Chrlstensen has a won
derful aggregation of clean fighters
and heady players. Soi.io of them
have been in the state tourney before
and nro therefore veterans. One good
lady who formerly lived down at
Cedar City, remarked, when tho boys
appeared on the floor the first night,
'Sunshine and sago brush certainly
develops manhood,' and if that is tho
formulae the balance of tho state can
profit by its publication. Tho score
was 25 to 19.
"In losing out, Box Elder is filled
with disappointment as aro all her
loyal followers. Tho B. A. C. team was
regarded as tho biggest obstacle in
tho path to victory, so a tough battle
was anticipated. To lose to that team
was no dishonor; to have fought so
well against such tremendous odds
simply illustrates again the wonderful
fighting qualities of the home team,
tho qualities which carried it through
tho season with a clean record bo far
qb the Northern division is concerned.
The breaks of tho game were against
our boys on tho final evening of tho
tournament, and they lost through ill
luck purely.
The meet was characterized by a
record attendance, The gym was
packed every night and hundreds of
fans were turned away. Tho games
were played in truo sportsmanlike
manner and tho rulings of the officials,
generally gavo satisfaction. President
Moss of the State Basket Ball Associ
ation expressed himself ns being de
lighted with the reception tendored by
Brigham City and the enthusiasm
manifested at tho games. Every prom
Iso mado by (ho local committee In,
ornof to gvt tho tourney hero, wwh
I fully lived up to and not a singlo un
pleasant incident occurred to mar tho
contests. When the homo team was
not on the floor, the crowd divided
itself in favor of each contesting team
and cheered them to tho echo."
Tho Nowa also published an ac
count of tho game written by Waltor
King, one of the sporting reporters
for tho Salt Lake Tribune, from which
the following is taken:
"Box Elder fans were indeed fortu
nate to see such great games as fea
tured the 1916 Btate high school bas
ket ball tournament. Despite tho dis
appointment of tho Brigham Citv
team the article of ball set up by ail
four fives was of a high grado and the
biggest nnd most experienced quin
tctto of tho bunch, the Branch Agri
cultural College five, appeared to bo
tho cream of tho competing schools.
"In tho Branch Agricultural Collego
local enthusiasts saw ono of the great
est scholastic aggregations over as
sembled in the state. Four mon held
over from 1915, together with a new
guard and with tho brainy Jack Chris
tensen in charge thoy went through
tho Southern division schedule with
out a defeat and scarcely a closo gamo
against them.
"Bunker, Woodard, Griffin, Cnptaln
Hansen were on tho B. A. C. toam
last year, which was In tho state tour
nnmont Thorloy, a freshman, was
developed by Christcnsen and he fit
ted into the well oiled machine per
fectly. "For tho first threo nights of the
tournament the Branch A. C. led tho
team scoring with a total of eighty
five points. Lehl was second with
sevonty-slx. Box Elder was third,
with sixty-four and Tooele finished
last, scoring fifty-two.
"However, It may bo a source of
much satisfaction to Brigham to think
thnt one of its plnyers led tho individ
ual field goal scoring. 'Boof Jeppson
mado eleven, although ho was out in
tho latter part of tho second half of
the gamo against Lehl. This Btar for
ward looks good for a place among
tho 191G stars.
"Threo ranked second with ton.
Thoy were: Hansen, B. A. C; Wan
less, Lehi, and Griffin, B. A. C. Han
sen should be given much credit be
cause of his position at guard and ho
showed much accuracy on his shoot
ing and in all demonstrated himself
to be one of the premier all around
guards in the meet. He held his for
ward close in the Friday and Saturday
games, but an injury in Thursday's
handicapped him to a certain extent.
Griffin, the B. A. C. center, who ap
pears to bo tho all state pivot man,
showed considerable skill in long hard
shots. Wnnlcss played good ball
throughout tho tourney.
"'Hoy' Croft, tho Tooele star for
ward, scored mno goals, although in
his first night's game he missed nu
merous easy ones, duo chiefly to ner
vousness. Croft was tho best foul
pitcher of tho tournament, getting
sixteen out of twenty-six. Tho throw
ing from the foul lino of the other
teams was far below standard and es
pecially in the caso of Ray Jensen of
Brigham, who many regard as the
best man in tho state in this depart
ment, got but fifteen out of twenty
nine. "Branch A. C. mado thirty-six field
goals to Lchi's twenty-eight Lehi
scored twenty points on fouls to Too
ele and Box Elder's sixtoen. Lehi had
forty-four chances from tho foul
line'
And the following is taken from the
Box Elder Journal, also published it
Brigham City:
"Champions are Champions Anyway."
"Well, tho. big state tournament for
tho basket ball championship has come
and gone, and while it would have giv
en us unmitigated pleasure to have
recorded our own beloved, plucky Box
Elder High team as tho winners of
state honors, still aro wo comforted by
tho fact that thoy did their level best
and who can do more? Even Napo
leon, that consummate leader, could
hot always win battles, and if our
boys went down before a battlo with
giants we have the consolation that
they went down with colors flying af
ter a plucky, manly fight against ov
erwhelming odds.
"Sometimes wo laugh at tho big fel
lows and boast that brains nnd not
brawn counts, but when brawn nnd
brain are mixed in good proportions
they make a combination well nigh
invincible. But amidst our chagrin
let us not forget the great record of
our local team in winning games al
most everywhere, and also their won
derful achievement in pulling the
state tournament to Brigham City in
competition with cities of greater
pupulation.
' "But we must admit, howover, that
on Friday night, in playing the B. A.
C. boys thoy met their surprises. In
nhyslque there was no comparison.
Before tho towering forms of those
giants our boys appeared mere pig
mies. It was a battlo with giants,
in which our boys were outclassed and
outdone, for tho B. A. C. team could
reach into tho 'upper' atmosphere and
manipulate the ball, whereas our boys,
by reason of their smaller stature,
wero closo to mother earth and had no
show. Then again not only were the
farmers giants in size, but thoy had
speed, power, brain and endurance.
"In'a word, our boys met their
'Waterloo' when thoy run up against
this combination of size and brain, and
it was a case of tho best team win
ning, and the best team did win.
That's all there la about It. But we
nro proud of our home boys for they
are true sports and took their defeat
in tho right way. Nor will they sulk
in their tents; of this we are assured.
They have mado a splendid record
and nttractd Btatc-wldo attention for
FOR DEVELOPMENT
OF CEDAR VALLEY
J. W. Pnxmnn of the U. A. C.
Takes Active Interest in
Securing Settlers.
1,500 ACRES NEEDED,
HALF IS NOW LISTED
Would Interest a Good Strong Selling
Agency to Bring Opportunities
to Attention of Hoincseckcrs.
u
Mr. J. W. Pnxman of the Utah Ag
ricultural Collego spent n dny of last
week and Monday and Tuesday of this
week was hero again looking over
lands in this valley that might bo
available for sale, should a workable
organization be offectcd to pluco tho
samo on tho market. Mr. Pnxman
on his visits of inspection in tho past
loonlng into tho agricultural possi
bilities of this section, has seen thnt
no ndequato development can bo mndo
with the present population so limited
and so grossly engaged in other pur
suits of n remunerative character.
Our lands nro held, In tho main, by a '
few persons, and upon whom 'they'
havo become a burden. He believes'
a movement can nnd should bo put on '
foot to havo these lands divided into)
small tracts and bonafido settlers put
on them who enn nnd will develop tho j
waste land into paying farms. Tho
best thing thnt can happen to us to
bring our possibilities to the front
and increase our resources, is to havo
from ono hundred to two hundred fam
ilies take up their residence with us
and wring from the spjLthe wealth,
thaf now lies dormant therein.
How Thin May be Accomplished.
There is one way to accomplish this
in the estimation of Mr. Paxman, and
that is for the present land owners
to list all tho surplus lands thoy havo,
placing upon them a moderately low
price that will be attractive, and then
enlist tho co-operation of some strong
reliable selling agency, who aro al
ready organized to handlo the matter
of bringing prospective homescokcrs
to Inspect tho lunds. It will probably '
take a few months to make proper!
connections with tho necessary forces, '
and this cannot bo done until somfi-'
thing certain and material can bo as- j
certained at this end. ,
It is for this purpose that Mr. Pax
man is interesting himsolf and mnk-J
ing a sort of a preliminary survoy of
tho situation here, believing that If'
enough land can .bo obtained undor a t
satisfactory option, at a low enough
price, the proposition could bo nut up
to somo concern that will bocomo in- j
tcrestcd and put forth their energies
to bring settlors here.
To enlist the activities of a good,
strong, reliable selling agency, there
would have to be about 16,000 acres1
available for sale. Mr. Paxman has1
promises for over half this amount,'
with what effort ho has mado, and.
would like for nil others who have do-'
sirable lands In tho valley, to write
him at Ncphi, giving number of ac
res, character and condition of tho
land, also location and prico asked; I
and if thero can bo enough listed at'
a low enough price, ho will contlnuoi
his efforts and interest somo soiling i
agency to operate in this section. You
thould write Mr. Paxman within tho
next two weeks, and then if conditions
warrant, a movement will be mado to
get options and agreements Into somo
tanglblo and satisfactory shape.
Let everyone help this movement
and report tho lands for sale to Mr.
Paxman at once.
their game, sportsmanlike qualities.
This temporary reverse will only act
as fuel to tholr zest and determina
tion, and next year when our boys
grow 'bigger,' then let tho B. A. C.
look out lest they lose their laurels.
In tho finnl try-out of last Monday
night the big farmers had It all their
own way. From start to finish thero
was never a moment in the gamo
when the Lehi men had a chance. It
is written somewhere in tho good
book, 'There wero giants in the land
in those days,' nnd that just explains
it. Tho big fellows of tho B. A. C.
deserve their victory. They are vet
erans at tho jbb: they have brain and
brawn, and skill and endurance, and
what do they need more? In losing
out to them our boys loso to worthy
foes. It Is no dishonor to loso to such
a mighty aggregation; It is an honor
to have met with and played them.
"The slogan now is, 'Back to tho
farm,' and certainly tho B. A. C, boya
are most magniflclent specimens of
the outdoor habit. They easily won
from Lehl with a score of 25 to 19 in
their favor. This gives the stato
championship to the Branch Agricul
tural College boys with Lehi holding
acond honors."
r: 6'kiMiVlLi 'J
IMPROVEMENTS ' 1
FOR CEDAR CITV 1
Present Season to be Important Jl
One in Development of the 'H
Southern Metropolis. iH
NEW BUSINESS BLOCKS ) fM
AND MODERN HOMLS 1 ' M
Cedar Sheep Association and Ccdnrs 4 M
Hotel to Erect Expensive Blocks, 1, jl
Laundry and Garage Also Planned. ."B
'JH
That Cedar City is to enjoy a sub- ' H
stantlal building boom this season is 1:JH
ovidont from tho program now out- 'll
lined for now business structures ns '""i'jnB
well as a numbor of new and modern hl
homes. Among the most important lH
improvements planned are the follow- ( f'l
A new two story pressed brick and (lll
gluss Btoro building for tho Cedar JH
Sheep Association, which will be built Hl
on the site of the olQ original build- ' 4l
ing now occupied by Arthur's office, , JH
and which according to the present Wl
preliminary plans will bo 40x100 feet, 'S1
with full cement basement, and will IRI
be modern in every respect. Tho cost 4l
will bo nnywhore from $12,000 to 4l
15,000. As yet the plans nro not lHI
fully matured, but it is the intention ' tfH
of tho board at its next meeting to 'i'H
employ an architect and appoint a 'aJw'H
building committee to outline tho im- f'w M
provements and have tho plans and ' r
specifications drawn. It is the ex- ,-. ;&B
pectation of tho superintendent that 'CTrlH
tho building will bo completed and ., ifVH
ready for occupancy before n,ext win- A. r'LM
tcr sets in, - "kTH
Mrs. Cathrino G. Icll, proprietor 'aWH
of tho Cedars Hotel, already a mor -Hl
of the Cedars Hotel, which' is already flH
a modern three-story building, has an- Vl
nounccd her intention of erecting an- Tl
other building at least as large, to . ilH
ndjoin her other structure on tho "lk
north, and which will cost upwards pf - ' 'JH
$10,000.00. , tf
J. M. Bladon of the Palace Drug j' ll
Store, s figuring on the erection of a f 'H
largo, business block a few rods south Al
of the present Palaco Drug Store, Tvl
which will house Cedar City's new 3 'JtI
steam laundry and a large garage for LAB
Mr. Don Coppin, who announces that VfTH
he will install not less than $1,000 fJH
worth of new equipment as soon ns 'Ml
the building is ready for occupancy. ?B
In addition to these, are the im- BiH
provements now in progress at tho vjl
Ward Hall, coBting $7,000 and tho re- tl
modelling of the Gem Theatre, which 1HH
go to swell the list. A number of JMH
other minor improvements nro con- ' H
templated for tho present season. VH
Then there aro tho residences, of mI
which a number of modern, up-to-dato -''Jl
cottages will bo built this season. JH
Among others, Wlliam and Jnmcs T$IM
Smith, Archie Swapp and somo oth- ifH
ers are arranging to build, il
A new, modern, $60,000 school houso UH
has just been completed, as well as , .Bjl
a number of new homes, all of which 'tll
is evidenco that Cedar City has a fjl
bright future, and that peoplo aro H&H
coming to recognize this as tho gco- 411
graphical as well as tho educational MH
center of the south, and withal a H
mighty good placo to live and rear a li'jH
family. H
And still thero is room for many 4H
moro newcomers, of tho right class '1
peoplo who are boosters and who do 31
things. flifill
The Cedar City Drug Company has lBHS
purchased a business site from the C'Sf
proprietor of the Cedars Hotol, with rf v j '
a 30 foot frontago on tho north sido J$3S it Jtf
of this property, facing Main. It is ;V8
tho intention of the management of t Jftf -
tho Drug company to orect a building jHr 'X't
thereon at the expiration of their 'Iflpi' F
leaso on the Knell quarters, which 'iBH&Jrc'
runs for somo two or threo years yet, llrar"
Tho building will be 80x80 feet, and &m '
j tho wall will join over tho top of a 'jJBlr??t
drivo way with tho new addition? to "MStfyi 1
tho hotel, which is to be built the pres- SmlM
ent year. When this is done, there fJHs
I will be a solid block of business build. ' JfHMK
, ings extending from the Wink jewel- "SJHB
(ry shop on the south to the alley MIHI
north of th Knell block, except for JmHoI
the 25 foot front owned just south of ; JeWH
Tho Record building by Henry Leigh VvWHI
& Sons, and it has been intimated that t JnH
they intend erecting a business build- , -H
ing on tHIs ground In the not distant HnSI
future. Steadily, but certainly, Ctar M
1 City is bulldinr up. ' - h ' 'ffl
1
