State Historical Society
THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
office at Ronan: Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VI. NO. 48. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, MARCH 24, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
FRENCH REPULSE
VICIOUS ATTACK
Paris, March 21.-Another powerful
German attack, this time between
Avocourt and Malancourt, west of the
Meuse, resulted in heavy losses to the
Germans, according to the official
communication issued by the French
war office.
A fresh division brought up from a
distant point was used in this opera
tion, which was characterized by the
employment of jets of liquid flame. At
one point, east of the Malancourt
wood, the Germans made some slight
progress.
2,000 SHIPS LOST TO TRADE
Washington, March 21.-The Euro
pean war has taken from the seas
more than 2,000 merchant vessels of
nearly 4,000,000 tonnage, according to
figures published by the department
of commerce. Germany, with 600 ves
sels sunk, captured or interned, heads
the list of losers.
Two hundred and twenty-five of the
500 British vessels lost were sunk by
submarines. Great Britain's allies
lost 167 ships.
Austria lost 80 and Turkey 124. The
total of neutral losses is put at 736,
but most of these were released after
being reported captured.
Ninety-two neutral vessels have
been sunk by submarines and 94 sunk
by mines. Twenty-three have been
damaged by submarines and mines.
BRITISH REITERATE DENIAL
Washington, March 21.-Reports
that the Dutch steamer Tubantia had
been stink by a British submarine,
with the purpose of causing friction
between neutral states of North Eu
rope and Germany, developed this
statement from the British embassy
here:
"An unqualified denial of the Ger
man statement regarding the sinking
of the Tubantia is given by the Brit
ish admiralty in the following cable
gram:
"'No British submarines were in
the vicinity at the time of the sink
ing of the Tubantia.' "
GERMAN YOUTHS MUST SAVE
Berlin, March 21.-An official de
cree was issued that minors engaged
in gainful occupations shall not re
ceive more than 18 marks weekly of
their earnings, with a surplus amount
ing to not more than one-third the
au:ount paid in excess of 18 marks
The residue must be deposited in saw
ings banks, not to be withdrawn dut
ing the war.
This measure was adopted as excep
tionally high salaries are being paiu
and in some instances the money ha
Leen wasted.
BRITONS FEAR FURTHER +
"+ INCREASE IN TAXES. ?ii
" London. March 21.-Consid- +
"i" erable increase in taxation will +r
+ he proposed in the budget early +
"I- next month, according to the +
+ Daily News. +
The News expresses the be- +
+ lief that the income tax and +
+ taxes on spirits, sugar and to- +
"I" bacco will be increased and +|
"i new duties are likely to be + |
levied on imported watches, +
clocks, hats, plate glass and +
*I" automobile tires. "I"
"1"
..." """.I. d" i"....I......,
EARLY DAKOTA CHIEF DEAD
Sp-ingfield. ill., Mat , 21.-Dr. Will
iam Jayne, territorial governor of the
Dakotas under President Abraham
1.i:aoln, whose personal friend he
was, identified with banking interests
of the state, former state senator and
former mayor of Sppringfield, died
here following a fall on an icy side
walk in this city last January. Ur.
.Tayne was eighty-nine years old.
Mine Damages Danish Town.
London, March 21.-Two thousand
panes of glass were shattered and
serious damage resulted to houses and
shops when a mine which drifted
ashore off t hudhiem exploded, says a
dispatch to the Daily Telegraph from
Copenhagen.
RACEHORSES DIE IN FIRE
A fire which burned one of the Cho
lean County Fair associatain houldiny
at Fort Benton killed six valuabli
horses belonging to H. G. Stevens of
Big Sandy. The origin of the fire has
not been determined. The horses
were being trained on the track at the
fair grounds. Mr. Stevens places their
value at $5,000. He had no insurance
Bid For Political Pork
One of the rankest political jobs of
)pen and above board treachery to the
*ank and file of the parties. is contem
)lated in the concerted movement of
Jhairmen Selway and Everett, of the
republican and progressive state com
nittees, respectively. A telegram was
addressed to at least three republicans
and progressives in this city, inviting
them to join in a call for a Roosevelt
for President league, the intention be
ing to hold a meeting in Helena next
Tuesday and select a bunch of delegates
to Chicago, pledged to the nomination
rf Roosevelt in the republican national
convention. The telegram was signed
by E. O. Selway and Tom Everett, Joe
Dixon, Wellington Rankin, Symmes,
Holloway, W. J. McCormick of Mis
soula, Doc Lanstrum and several other
famous war horses, We believe that
with one exception the replies from
Kalispell were favorable to the combin
ation and the Roosevelt hat has been
started ,rolling into the ring. The
bosses will certainly demonstrate the
ease with which the presidential primar
ies may be defeated. This plan has no
doubt been evolved by the prospective
candidates and office seekers out of a
job, who see their redemption only in
such chicanery. Should Mr. Roosevelt
be chosen at Chicago to be the stand
ard bearer of republicans, well and
good, but just at the present writing
he is not a member of the Republican
party nor is he entitled to recognition
as such. The political tricksters who
have conspired to place him as the re
publican candidate, might/with the
same consistency have centered upon
Woodrow Wilson or Billy Bryan, with
a preference for the latter. They are
more entitled to recognition by the G.
0. P. at this time than is Teeodore
Roosevelt.-Kalispell Times.
CHEESE FACTORY OR
CREAMERY, WHICH?
The starting and operating of a
cheese factory has several advantages
over a creamery. It costs much less to
build and equip a cheese factory. The
building need not be so large or costly
and the equipment is far less expensive.
A five horse power vertical boiler, a
500 gallon cheese vat and gang press
are the most expensive pieces of equip
ment and need not cost much over $200.
The entire equipment for a factory
that will handle the product of 500 cows
can be had for less than $600, and the
total cost of a factory should not ex
ceed $1,500. In building a creamery,
the equipment alone will cost at le st
$1,500 as there is far more machinery
required for the refining of cream, the
churning and storage of butter.
A cheese factory can be operated
successfully on the product of from 100
to 200 cows where it will require the
cream from at least 400 cows to operate
a creamery. For this reason a cheese
factory can be built and operated suc
cessfully in many communities in Mon
tana where a creamery would fail from
lack of cream. The factory at Sales
ville, Montana, operated last year on
about 2500 pounds of milk per day-the
product of about 125 cows.
Another advantage for the cheese
factory is the higher prices paid the
farmers for butter fat during the sum
mer months when creameries are obliged
to pay the summer prices. The follow
ing is the relative price per pound of
butter fat a creamery would have to
pay to equal the price received at a
cheese factory based on 4% milk.
Cheese Factory Creamery.
$1.00 per cwt. 25c per lb B. F.
1.05 " 26.25 '
1.10 27.5
1.15 " " 28.75 "
1.20 " % 30.
1.25 " " 31.21
1.30 "t " 32.5
1.4:) " " 36.25
1.50 ". " 37.5
1.60 "` " 40.
The home market for cheese is a big
item. A very small per cent of the
cheese consumed in Montana now is
manufactured here in the state. For
this reason there is a splendid home
market for all the cheese that can be
made. The fact that the quality of our
home product is superior to any that
comes in from the outside gives the
home factories a decided advantage on
a competitive market and enables the
factory to pay the farmer well for his
milk.' The Department of Dairy Hlus
Landry of the State College of Agri
1culture at Bozeman is receiving many
inquiries relative to the organization
and operation of cheese factories.
3 There are excellent prospects of a large
number being started this spring.-G.
L. Martin, Department of Dairy Hus
Sbandry, Montana Experiment Station.
SENATOR WEEKS
FOR PRESIDENT d
a
Washington.-[Speciai.] - The name if
)f United States Senator John W. b
Weeks of Massachusetts will appear
upon the primary ballot of Montana
Among those who are candidates for t
the Republican presidential nomina
Lion. Senator Weeks has consented to
this course, wishing to meet all the re
quirements of the Montana primary I
laws, and his friends in that state will
make a campaign in his behalf, hoping r
to secure the selection of delegates to
the Chicago convention who will favor
his nomination. Recent returns from r
district conventions in the state of
Missouri and reports from a number of
other states west of the Mississippi
have indicated that Senator Weeks has
a strong following in that section.
Senator Weeks has bad an interest
ing and highly successful career both
in private and' public life, and the de- I
velopment of sentioment favorable to I
his candidacy for the White House I
has been the outgrowth of the varied
activities in which he has been en-.1
gaged since he quit teaching school
in a smuall New Hampshire town at
the age of seventeen to enter the Unit
ed States Naval academy at Annapolis,
lutent upon a career in the American
navy. 1He graduated from that insti
tution in 1881 and limmediately went
to sea, ,erring for two yours under the
staffs tinl( stripes in the Asiatic station.
Joins Naval Militia.
Weeks i ntercd business. but beeanme
an uonilber of the MIassachusetts naval
miilit iai At the auith'enk of file Spa;nish
Anmeric':n wvar he Joined the volunteer
navy and was a commau~nder in that
iii nuizalinn throughout the entire con'
flict. Vlwn entering conigiess be le
canne :u memilber of the house coninlit
toe uu nlaval l ifairs and estaiblishied
Ilimsellf as ano unthority ;il this branich
of the governmlent service. IRecently
Saaoi;lr Weekcs lhs been appointed to
imemubership oil the senate committee
on military affairs and is looked upon
by nmany as the mall pre-tulinenltly fit
ted to cope with the great question of
lwelparedness.
Mfr, Weeks was a banker before cint
iug to Washington. Ile was vice pres
ident of the First National hank of
Boston and successfully reorganized a
number of business institutions which
have since become notable concerns.
HIS reputation as all administrator fol
lowed himn to the national capitail.
where he was immediately put hi
.charge of it number of important proj
ects, such as the drafting of a postal
savings bank scheme. lie also hal it
prominent part in framning the Aldrich
'V'reelaind currency act and becanmv
knluown as "'the business mlan or (.oi
Sgross." Upon enterinig the senate >V
WVeekis severed .111 persofnal business
con~nectionis so that lhe mlight devote lhis
eiltire timeo to 1 ublic life.
Enviable Position In Party.
Itl iti'\e lly Fs enitS or Wti eekti l as 11,1(l1.
for l iimt eltl l lt entvinhiii po 1 il tmi ill ;;
eleniett' of the jHoiiillienitl tarty. IN,
le islatiVe relo1 i tt t it itt t. t it hi tI It
;ipirov;II of the lnrogreý5iveý, ;114 1en
;:tor W\'eeks wo, larVgmy retpc-ibie I" o
tl it doptins of uitv nro 5. iti a situku-ts in
t lltli ' u l in n hlults also ai la s-1iti
celi: which trestultail in red nmn tih iat
tat" fnr a hd sole ulten rafter tlinc
ywhic of wie eov"1en rule. liresting ut
thelshers of the mre ropeian wia-ni
the lisuwhylien prnty heiate to scay
poss5ed the ward atloii thatf`; u;linru
Weeks is "all right." and that if he 1.
1:outinated thiey will give hit, the'.
hearty suplport. In spoeding: of `'ms
tht eator Weeks w;i louial me iai r
lyngressman L. pr . esidn of t"i-o
re-enitly 5(11(:
"The counutry demiands it llrile Mil
w Nho 11,1 not only made 11 sn''('1O; Il
publiie life, bunt has1 also 1had I th~or
ough bhusin~ess training--a malt who cal
grasp and solve the great praetic~al
questions which now confront ius '1nd(
which will be even more pressing at
the close of the European war-and
that is why I d1o not hesitate to say
that Senator Weeks would make a tru
ly great president."
School Bonds
In another column we print a com
munication from the trustees of this
school district giving their reasons for
desiring a bond issue of $28,000 voted
at the April 1st election. A bond issue
is always an important matter and
both sides of the case are to be con
sidered. In this particular case every
voter should inform themselves
thoroughly before election day. The
Pioneer prints the communication of
the trustees in the same way it would
publish an article opposing bond issue
written and signed by any reputable
resident of the district.
The matter of a bond issue by the
district at this time has not received
much attention and we doubt if fifty
per cent of the voters know that the
question is to be submited at the com
ing annual election. No notice, other
than the usual bill board posting, has
been given, and a very small percent
age of voters make a practice of read
ing the bill boards. A few days still
remain, however, in which the interested
voter can inform himself, and the Pio
neer suggests that it be looked into
thoroughly.
The object, as stated in the trustees
communication, is to provide school
buildings at Arlee, St. Ignatius, Leon,
Round Butte and Ronan. After re
deeming outstanding bonds of $12,000,
and buying the consolidated school
buildings at Leon and Round Butte,
there would be little left out of $28,000
for buildings at any of the otherplaces
mentioned. Certainly not enough to
build a suitable building for either St.
I Ignatius or Ronan. And it must be
conceded that Ronan has at the present
time all the excuses for school buildings
that any one town can afford to be
burdened with. It is probably safe to
say that the people of Ronan would
prefer to get along with what that they
now have until such time as one suit
able to the needs and demands can be
secured, and this is likely true at St.
Ignatius also. Justice, however,
would seem to demand that the district
own the buildings at Round Butte and
FLeon. especially if this is the wish of
the public spirited men of those com
munities who provided the means re
quired to construct the present school
buildings. The question submitted is
important and has two sides to it.
Think it out before you vote.
TOWN COUNCIL APPOINTS
ELECTION CLERKS, JUDGES
At the last meeting of the town con
cil preparations were made for the
coming town election on April 3rd.
Polling place and judges were selected
as follows;
First Ward-Polling place, Loraine
house; judges, Peter Livingston, P. A.
Flatten and W. G. Fisher.
Second Ward--Polling place, J. N.
Bailey's office; judges, Ross Lemire, A.
Sutherland and Joe Bouchard.
Third Ward -Polling place, Ronan
Hotel; judges, James Giant, James O'
Neil and C. V. Klotschle.
One alderman is to be elected it each
ward, the retiring officers being R. S
Hart, R. L. McBride and W. J. Egan.
Registration by Wards-First, 32;
Second, 32; Third,,71. Making a total
registration for the town of 135.
SUGAR BEET FACTORY
PROPOSED FOR FLATHEAD
The chamber of commerce has re
ceived a request from the Great West
ern Sugar Company of Denver for com
plete data about the Flathead valley,
and its adaptibility for the raising of
sugar leets. The letter was written
by Henry I. Rolapp, solicitor for the
company, whose headqnarters are Salt
Lake. ife states that the company is
considerin g the Flathead as a possible
location for a sugar beet factory. See
retary Bernard has sent complete data
on the subject. and requested Mr. Rol
app to make a personal visit to the
valley.- Kalispell Bee.
New Great Northern Cutoff.
About $1,0ii0,00 will be spent by 1h
Creat Northern this year on it
New lockford-l .nwirton critoff across
North ldakota and Montana. This i
the biggest link in a second trans: on
tinental line for the Great Northern
and it is possible, if conditions remain
good, the improvmenif't prograli noay
be extended further.
Montana Flax to Belfast.
Several carloads of Montana has
from Conrad are being shipped to Bel.
fast, Ireland. The flax, it is said, will
bring $400 a ton in Ireland, iecause
of the war. The average price in
peace times is $150 a ton.
VILLA SAID TO
HAVE ESCAPED
El Paso, Tex., March 21.-The Car
ranza forces have failed to hold their
end of the net that was closing about
Pancho Villa and the bandit chief has
escaped to his mountain haunts about
Guerrere, according to reliable infor
mation received here. The escape of
the bandit, however, is far from be
ing the most serious item of news
which reached the border.
A feature of the gravest importance
Nw as injected into the situation by
substantial confirmation of the nu
merous reports received for the past
week that the Mexican government
tioops were not only failing to co
operate with the American troops,
but, in certain instances at least, were
actually withdrawing from the field of
operations.
The troops of the do facto govern
nent, which had been stationed at
Casas (Irandes, have been withdrawn
and are now in and about .Juarez.
It was also learned that at least one
detachment of C'arranza troops had
refused to fight Villa and had with
drawn from the bandit's approach, al
lowing him to pass into his favorite
imunta in fstness in the great con
tinental divide south of Nanuiquipa.
This detchment withdrew on receipt
of a iiessage that he was warring not
on M~lexicans, but the enemies of
Mexicans.
The extraordinary rapidity with
which the American cavalry had push
ed into Mexico gave rise to high hopes
that the unexpected had happened and
the notorious bandit was cornered
This seemed inevitable if the Carranza
soldiers did their part and if the ac
count of the strength of their field
forces was correct.
Villa, cut off from the north by the
forward sweep of the American col
umn, from the west by the Sierre
Madre barring approaches to the state
of Sonora, was supposed to be equally
barred from east and south by power
ful Carranza forces. Those hopes
have been completely dashed by de
velopments.
More than this, it now seems cer
tain that Villa is moving freely in at
least a large section of the country
supposed to be hold by the troops of
the first chief.
CARRANZA SUBMITS OFFER
Washington, March 21.--The de fac
to government of Mexico has proposed
to the United States the drafting of a
protocol, under which American and
Mexican troops may co-operate in run
ning to earth Francisco Villa and his
bandits, withont danger of misunder
standing or conflict.
The terms of such a formal conven
tion woild be designed to meet all
questions which may arise in the fli
tore, setting forth the rights of the
American expeditionary forces now
in pursuit of the bandit chieftain annd
the nature of the co-operation expect
ed from the troops of the Carranza
govern Oent.
HAS WEED PULLING PARTY
Pasadena Woman Adopts Novel
Scheme to Beautify Lawn.
Pasadena, Cal., March 21.-A fad
which Is likely to meet with approval.
especially by the City Beautiful club,
was launched when Mrs. P. N. Han
son entertained with a "weed pulling"
party.
With a lawn knee deep in clover,
dandelions and dozens of other kinds
of weeds Mrs. Hanson decided to get
rid of them with one fell swoop. But
the only way to do so was to have a
party and show her guests how much
fun it was to pull weeds.
So more than a dozen neighbors
w-re turned loose in a weedy lawn and
after they had pulled up the last para
site they were reward-led for their la
bor with a delicious hot lunchein. The
other guests plan to return the favor
by giving weid pulling parties also.
PIONEER BLACKSMITH DEAD
St. l'a-tl, March 21.--Minniesota's
t e-;ran hlac~eitt ills, August Jobst,
nighty years oii, is dead. lie had fol
lowed his trade on the West Side
rincm 18,1, when lie began shoeing
ioroes for the handful of settlers
gathered at the site of St. Paul. He
was found dead in his bed.
thl f man was a blacksmith when he
caIte to St. Paul at the age of fifteen
yeirs, lie worked his way here from
S(cri'any, making his way to St. Paul
in a flatboat.
Hle was one of the first to enlist in
the Civil war, and served through, the
conflict at lils trade.
Does the fact that China is still ex
porting eggs to this country indicate
that In that country the higher criti
cism of the drama has gone out of
style?
The Mexican Situation
Between the censorship necessarily
exerted along the Mexican border and
the conflicting reports from Mexico
itself, it would be unsafe to make
any predictions at this stage as to the
outcome of the proposed punitive ex
pedition. It is noteworthy, however.
that some army officers feel no
little apprehension that if the expedi
tion goes after Villa and popular senti
ment in Mexico turns against Carranza,
he may actually unite his forces with
Villa to destroy the American expedi
tion. It is already obvious, too, that
before long there will be some radically
divergent explantions of the unpre
paredness of the forces along the Mex
ican boundary and the occasion of the
costly delay in pursuing Villa. Apolo
gists for the administration will seek
to put the blame on the military au
thorities, whereas officers will be dis
posed, in so far as the constant men
ace of dismissal will permit them, to
put the blame where it belongs, on the
political heads of the war department,
and even on the commander in chief,
who is, of course, primarily responsible.
REASONS FOR THE
BOND ISSUE PROPOSAL
To the citizens of school district 28:
In refering to the voters of the dis
trict at the school election, April 1st,
the proposal to issue bonds to the
amount of $28,000 for providing school
buildings at Arlee, St. Ignatius, Leon,
Ronan and Round Butte, the School
Board was moved by the following con
siderations:
Our pioneer children, the children
of today, are entitled to share with the
children of the future adequate school
facilities, in order that we may have a
happier and more prosperous people. At
present we have a very small assessed
valuation, due to tax-exemption of In
dian allotments, homesteads, tribal
lands and government reservations,
and to the new and undeveloped char
acter of the country, which in a few
years will have doubled in valuation
many times over, and can take up the
bonds without noticing them.
Building facilities at the above
named points are inadequate, making
it necessary to rent private buildings
in some cases, and to put up with the
handicap of scattered and poorly
adapted buildings.
The rental paid out at the present
time at these points would more than
pay the annual interest on the proposed
bond issue. If the issue is not author
ized the rental will be even greater be
cause more room must be secured. The
bond issue will not increase taxes the
least bit.
The building program should be put
under way at once. By providing di
I rectly by bond issue at this time for
the points named, the slate will be
L cleared for providing indirectly for ade
quate building facilities of a perma
nent nature in the few sections not in
eluded in the present proposal.
5. School bonds are being taken on
the market most advantageously.
Leon and Round Butte Schools,
I built recently with capital secured by
the people of those communities at 'ten
per cent interest, should be paid off
with four or five per cent money.
The Board believes that the people
as a whole want the very best schools
possible. -Board of Trustees, School
District No. 28.
t March 18, 1916.
SENATOR MYERS PUSHING
IMPORTANT LAND BILL
The senate public lands committee
last Saturday favorably reported Sen
ator Myers' bill providing that where
lands of the Flathead Indian reserva
tion were classified and appraised dur
ing 1912 and 1913 at a price exceeding
the price fixed by the Flathead com
mission in 1907, persons who have set
tled on the lands may purchase at the
price fixed by the commission. The
bill also authorizes a refund to those
woo have paid excessive prices under
the second appraisement.
G. 0. P. Encouragement
Republicans are jubilant over the re
turns from the recent primary election
in Indiana. Less than 8,000 votes were
polled by the progressives, while Wil
son's total vote was 160,423 against176,
178 for Fairbanks, republican candidate
for president. Indiana's popular vote
for president in 1912 was; Wilson,
281,890; Taft, 151,267; Roosevelt, 162,
007.
