A GREAT INDUSTRY--
ABERDEEN, "WHERE THE SHIPS COME FROM"
THIRTIETH YEAR
BIDS BEFORE
COUNCIL ON
BIG PROJECT
Tonight Awards for Pipe
Line Material Will
Be Made
THOMSON ASKS $150
Suggests Monthly Salary
For Work as Consult
ing Engineer
The city council, at an adjourned
session tonight, will take up bids (or
material, amounting to some $135,000
for the Wishkah water project's pipe
line, and probably make awards.
Twelve bids were opened at Wednes
day night's session, Anderson & Mid
lleton and the Pacific Lumber agency
offering to supply finished pipe staves
at $30 a thousand feet. Tonight, too.
the council will consider an offer
from R. H. Thomson to act as con
sulting engineer on the water pro_-
ject for $150 a month.
Matters coming up at regular ses
sion and to be settled next Wednes
day night were the projected im
provement of West Second street
from M to Washington, and passage
of an ordinance arranging for mode
>f rebates to property owners in first
nd second fill districts.
Twenty-three West Second street
property owners protested against the
street Improvement. Mayor Phillips
and property owners who were in the
audience urged that it was unfair to
taxpayers to keep up the street out
of their pockets. Next Wednesday
night the street committee will make
a report on the Improvement and the
city engineer will have ready an esti-.
mate on a 30-foot concrete roadway
and sidewalks. S
The fill district rebate ordinance'
will be amended, before final passage, I
at the mayor's suggestion, to make
payment of rebates by individual war
rants rather than out of a lump sum
turned over to the city treasurer.
By passage of an ordinance the
Grays Harbor Trap Shocting associa
tion is allowed to hold shoots on
West Heron street near the Standard |
Oil company's plant. The ordinance
fixing inspector's fees for installing
electrical fixtures was amended to
ASKING FOR ACTION
NOW ON NATIONAL
PROHIBITION ISSUE
W. C. T. U. of City and County Starts Peti
tions to Congress Urging Prohibition Resolu
tion Be Reported Out of Judiciary Committee
, Petitions to United States Senators Wesley L. Jones and Miles
Poindexter and to Congressman Albert Johnson, asking them to urge
the senate judiciary committee to report out of committee, favorably
or otherwise, the national constitutional prohibition resolution, will
go from Aberdeen within the next few days.
The movement was started yesterday al'ernoon at the Aberdeen
W. C. T. U. meeting at the home of Mrs. Sarah E. Myers, 518 East
First Street. Today, at the meeting of the executive committee of
the Grays Harbor County W. C. T. U., at Montesano, the need of
rushing these petitions from all parts of the county will be discussed.
Clergymen of the city are to be asked to take up the question
in their pulpits. Individuals and organizations will be urged to send
personal letters to the senate judiciary committee as well as to our
senators and representative. Hotiuiam and South Aberdeen branches
of the W. C. T. U. are early in the field and already have sent their
petitions.
The petitions prepared by the W. C. T. U. ask "for the passage
by the United States Congress of the joint resolution introduced in
the senate by Senators Morris Sheppard and Jacob H. Gallinger, and
in the house by Representatives Edwin Webb and Addison Smith,
providing for the adoption of a prohibition amendment to the con
stitution."
Communications from the national and state officers of the
W. C. T. U. urge the Importance of sending a flood of these petitions
and personal letters to Congress as, otherwise, no action will be taken
by Congress until the next session.
THE ABERDEEN HERALD
EIGHT PAGES
1 conform with practice now in other
cities. On recommendation of Coun
cilman Egerer the street committee
was told to stop erection of a bill
board at Division and Pacific streets,
i regarded as dangerous to traffic.
Many Aspirants Now
Training for Race
for County Offices
There are many aspirants training
' now for the race for Republican nomi
nations for county offices at the Sep
-1 tember primaries. R. A. Wiley, John
D. Orton and A. E. Leßoy are under
stood to be out for county treasurer;
W. R. Tucker, Ira N. Gardner, Martin
Smith, O. M. Nelson and Charles
Smith for prosecuting attorney; Joe
Searles, Ed Hoover, W. H. Hay, Giles
Quimby and George Stalding for sher
iff; Roy Sargent and J. B. Kirkaldie
for commissioner; J. J. Penepacker
and A. E. Heaton for school superin
tendent. The list of aspirants for
county clerk, auditor, assessor and en
gineer does not yet include possible
opponents to incumbents. Judge Ben
Sheeks likely will succeed himself as
1 superior court judge, while George D.
1 Abel seems most sure of the appoint
ment to the bench to fill the vacancy
created by the death of Judge Mason
Irwin,
I >
AN OLD PANAMA PRISON
Did you ever visit one of the old
prisons in Panama? Grim gray walls
, of stone, and chains and leg irons
were plentiful before Uncle Sam as
sumed control of the Canal Zone. In
I "The Ne'er-Do-Well" the interior of
one of these old-time Panama prisons
is shown. Kirk Anthony, the ne'er
-1 do-well, following an exciting battle
I with the police, is thrown into a Pan
ama dungeon, where he is persecuted
by the officials. The interiors of
many quaint homes, interesting work
along the Panama canal, and beauti
ful tropical scenery abounds in this
Selig Play which is the worthy suc
cessor of that othe rSelig feature,
I "The Spoilers,." Res wrote
both stories. "The Ne'er-Do-Well"
on Sunday and Monday will be pre
| sented at the Weir theatre.
(Ovir Shipyards will make this & reality)
—Donahay in Cleveland Plain Dealer.
Will it become a reality or is it something devoutly to be wished for, but still only to
a large extent a dream. Anarchy reigns supreme in Mexico, can we bring out of it
law and order? Only time, money and loss of life will tell the story.
—Patrick ir> New Orleans Times-Picayuna.
The little Pears' Soap baby gives rise to the suggestion that "adequate defense" is in a
somewhat soap-bubbly stage of its career; a kind of irridescent shimmering quantity,
with very little head and minus body. But be of good cheer. Baker, the new war sec
retary, says he will "learn how" to run the vast interests of his department. How
consoling!
FREE LECTURE ON
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
There will be a free lecture on
Christian Science, at the Grand The
atre, Tuesday evening, at 8 o'clock, by
Clarence C. Eaton, C. S. B. Member
of the Board of Lectureship of The
Mother Church, The First Church of
Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massa
chusetts.
The public is cordially invited. No
collection.
Aberdeen Printing Co., the "Know
How" Printers.
ABERDEEN, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1916.
THERE'S TROUBLE ENOUGH IN THIS WORLD WITHOUT YOU.
HE WON'T BE HAPPY UNTIL HE GETS IT.
WORK AT LINDSTROM YARDS
Repairs on the Lindstrom shipyards
were started today, preparatory to be
ginning the work of laying the keel
on the first ship, about April 20.
WON'T UNIONIZE LONGSHOREMEN
Gordon J. Kelly, district secretary
of the Longshoremen's Union, with
headquarters at Seattle, was on the
Harbor this week. He declared that
he was not here on union business,
however, and that no attempt would
be made yet to unionize longshore
men here.
Sound it far and wide, g'ive voice to the glorious fact
that in the f\it\ire o\ir city will be quoted as
'OBSERVE FEAST OF PURIM
Many residents of Grays Harbor, of
the Jewish faith, attended a children's
entertainment last Sunday at the K.
of P. hall, in observance of the Feast
of Purim. Mrs. A. M. Bendetson gave
an address on the significance of the
day, refreshments were served and a
delightful and interesting program of
songs, recitations and dances was
given by Madeline Jacob, Celia Wolff,
Selma Bendetson, Rena Biumberg, Hel
en Alexander, Joel Wolff, Carl Ben
detson, Frank Nudelman and Onita
Madison.
TO DEVELOP
LOYAL SPIRIT
IN ABERDEEN
"Trade at Home" Slogan
at Chamber Dinner
Next Monday
OUTLINE CAMPAIGN
Committee Starts Work
to Build Up Home
Business
Next Monday night at the Hotel
Washington at 6:30 a dinner will be
given by the "Trade-at-Home" com
mittee of the Aberdeen Chamber of
Commerce. This committee consists
of P. A. Bertrand, J. S. Waugh and
J. J. Kaufman, who have complete
charge of all the details of the affair,
and the handling of the tickets which
will be necessary for admission.
This will be a most important affair
and one very vital to the business
growth of this city.
It is conceded by all thoughtful men
that the business interests of this city
are at a critical period and that, with
a proper understanding and procedure,
great benefits can be derived.
After the dinner a series of talks on
designated subjects will be given, after
which the meeting will be thrown open
for the proper ventilation and discus
sion of the subjects needing consider
ation.
The committee has been working on
plans and will present them to the
meeting for ratification, thus giving
each class of business a chance to in
troduce its peculiar problems, and to
improve the present conditions.
Many merchants fall to understand.
E. B. CRARY NEW
SECRETARAY OF
SCHOOL BOARD
Former School Director Succeed* Mrs.
Duham and Board Feels Good Over
Getting Competent Man.
E. B. Crary was elected, last Satur
day, by the Aberdeen board of educa
tion as its secretary, succeeding -Mrs.
Margaret C. Dunham, who had filled
the place for the past five years. Mr.
Crary is in the office now familiarizing
himself with detail, but will not formal
ly take over the work until April 1.
Mrs. Dunham will go to California to
take a position offered her. Her resig
nation as secretary of the school board
was accepted Saturday.
The new secretary, both from famil
iarity with the work of the schools
obtained during his three years' term
as school director and from his abili
ties as an accountant, is regarded as
a splendid acquisition by the board.
Mr. Crary, a native of New York,
has been a resident of Aberdeen for
some ten years. He was connected
with the Hayes & Hayes bank for some
years, after that was secretary-treas-1
urer of the Big Creek Timber company
and recently has been engaged in the
insurance business. In 1914 and un
til the summer 0M915 Mr. Crary was
business manager of the Aberdeen Her
ald.
Waugh and Locke
Will Test Ton of
Manganese Ore
At Douglas Bros.' foundry this week
will be conducted tests of a ton of
manganese ore from the property, 10
miles from Humptulips City, on which
J. S. Waugh and Phil S. Locke have
had miners prospecting for several
weeks. Should the tests show as high
values as expected, it is likely that
the Aberdeen exploiters of the prop
erty will make arrangements for bring
ing larger quantities to Aberdeen for
shipment to San Francisco smelters.
Assays of the ore on the Waugh-Locke
property show that the ledge runs as
high as 53 per cent manganese. Un
refined manganese, which a year ago
waß bringing $15 a ton, today is quoted
at $65; and ferro-manganese has jump
ed to $450.
VOLUME 30
the requirements and rmirlfTtfllli
their customers so fail to serve th«a
properly, hence a diminishing busifMMk,
Then, again, the customers must IM
educated, mainly through the home
papers, to understand that their inter
ests and the merchants' interests ar«
intertwined and that it is to their
distinct advantage o be loyal to the
home town stores. This brings us to
the point that the merchants must
be ready to compete in merit of goods
and prices against outside stores,
thus proving worthy of the business.
The main points to be considered,
to bring about these good results, are
publicity, friendly criticism, up-to-date
stocks, a reasonableness in price and
a desire to sell more goods on a
smaller margin, rather than a few
goods at a big profit.
Efficiency is the watchword and the
only way to success; for our merch
ants to sit still and do nothing and
expect to succeed in the face of the
oceans of advertising pouring in from
other cities is the essence of foolish
ness.
In this "Trade at Home" proposi
tion, there are many serious weakness
es and errors to correct, and the peo
ple and merchants are in a large meas
ure equally blameworthy and need the
light of publicity to correct their lack
of loyalty and reciprocity.
This outline of the work contemplat
ed should surely convince our people
that the proper thing to do is to turn
out in great numbers next Monday
night, and take part in the very Im
portant meeting.
Any further information can be ob
tained from the Chamber's "Trade at
Home" committee, ""
Rates to Salt Lake
Market Safe Now
Says A. F. Peterson
Existing rates, under which Gray*
Harbor lumber mills can compete for
the Salt Lake market against Port
land mills, will not be disturbed by
the Interstate Commerce Commission,
in the opinion of A. F. Peterson, man
ager of the West Coast Lumber
agency, who represented Harbor mill
men at the recent hearing before the
commission in Portland. Mr. Peter
son gives this as a concensus of other
lumbermen's opinions as well as his
own.
GREEK LAD MISSING
The police, at the request of Mrs.
Callie Gronow, proprietor of the Ox
ford lodging house, 201 % East Heron
street, are endeavoring to find G.
Johns, a Greek lad aged about 18, who
paid a week's rent in advance and dis
appeared.
PLAN GREAT SHOOT
The Grays Harbor Trap Shooting
association, according to tentative
plans, will hold a big shoot for the
state or possibly for the Northwest
to participate in, this year or next.
WORK PROCEEDS
RAPIDLY NOW AT
PETERSON YARDS
Rapid progress is being made at
the Peterson shipyards on the schoon
er Oregon, being built for Wilson
Bros. The framework this week is be
ing placed around the keel. More
men will be placed at work after
April 1 for the Balfour-Guthrie
schooner.
SIMPSON HOLDINGS SOLD.
A large portion of the Simpson
Lumber company's holdings in Coos
county, Oregon, were sold this week
to a Portland syndicate composed of
Phillip and Henry Buehner and Geo.
B. Sailor. The land comprises about
22,440 acres, with stumpage of more
than a billion feet of spruce, hem
lock, white and red cedar and flr, sale
price being reported as between $750,-
000 and $1,000,000.
NUMBER 2S
