i
i
-
OUR MOTTO
BOOST AND HELP THE OTHER FELLOW.
Volume 12
Houston, Miss., March 24, 191G.
Number 43
7
THE BUI'S HELP 10 A COMMUNITY. I PATRIOTIC APPEAL FOR BETTER
There is no en 1 to the t a bank can do and does f r a town and
community. In it is centered the pivet of all outside activities and ac
cording to its CKK.VSK just so will the wheels of commerce and develop
ment turn round. '
Banking business is not appreciated by enough people to makethein
do even greater i 1 than they do now. With the banking law in force
NO DEPOSITOR ciii I.')Sr:. H s money is SAFE in a safe and when he
wants it he can et it just like he wants it. So with that law backing
every depositor, more people should rustle their po ko-de-nero out of
various socks and cracks, chimney corners and hearths and become de
positor in your local bank.
There are bankers who have done much tfood to their several com
munities and Chickasa.v county is well represented by every bank in the
four largest towns. To them the most of the business men and farmers
yo to for advice ah .nit every deal and the bankers spend many hours
Hying to HELP others get their business on the right road. All praise
to these men who know how the other fellow lives!
In publishing the statements of different banks The Hummer always
desires to cooperate with them the best we can. The two statements on
this page fr.an Chickas aw County Bank and Benk of Houlka show mighty
good figures .or this season of the year. Although they are small con
sidering citv banks that does not show that they do not do a great good
for the people. Every day the men behind these banks try to help the
Ir.ninsss interests of the e.vn:nunity GET r).5ErHEXauJ they are happy
to help YOU solve your financial problem. INTEGRITY as of the Gib
raltar Rock is paramount in the hearts and minds of these officers and
they always want to help those who try to help themselves.
Behind the Chickasaw County Bank is President A M Harley, Vice
President J P Tabb, Cashier" L T Fox, Bookkeeper T H Johnson. Direc
tors A M Harley, J P Tabh.E P Wilson, R B Waldrop, John C Williams,
S T King, D E Shell and J I, Smith. All of them honest and straight
business men READY to sejve i I any capacity that builds up the town.
Behind the Bank of II alka is President Oscar M Harrill, Vice-President
W H Grillin and Cashier. Robt E At well. Directors, T R Roberts, C.
W Stubblefield, E T Turner, J C Beasley, R E Atwell, W H Griffin and 0
M Harrill. All of them honest and strictly business men who arrTit all
times behind the best interests that go to build up instead of to tear down.
To the bankers of this county The Hummer offers its pages to help
further the cause of banking and if any banker desires to write an article
dealing with the present conditions of our county, what is best to do,
how to do things that will bring prosperity and subjects along this line
we shall ba. glad to print it with editorial support.
Statement of the financial condi-, Statement of the financial condi
tion of
Chickasaw County Bank
located at Houston in the County,
of Chickasaw, State of Mississippi,:
at the close of business March 7th,
I9IG. made to the Board of Bank
Examiners.
RESOURCES.
Loa.is and discounts - $(i'.),4 i 1.61
Overdrafts.secur' 7,fi8-14(
unsecured 67(5.73
Guaranty fund with State
Treasurer - -Banking
house and lot
Other real estate owned
Furniture and fixtures
Due from other banks
Ex and cks lor next davs
clearings
UtT.Vysh items
Paper currency
Fractional pap?r currency
niekles and cents
Gold coin
Silver Coin
County Warrant
8.501.19
SUO.OU
5,01)0.00
500.00
S5'ld0()
2;;.v.'.:,.84
85 -10
157.76
4,3 12.00
- 85.54
15.00
2,4.".8.2."
1,(2.97
t it 111 of
Bank of Houlka
I located at Houlka, in the County of
Chickasaw, state of Mississippi, at
the close of business March 7, 1916,
made to the board of Bank Exam-
iners.
RESOURCES.
Loans and discounts - 3 1,377.03
Overdrafts, unsecured - 105.06
Bonds, securities, etc., owned
I included premium on same 8,000.00
Guaranty fund with state
treasurer
! Banking house and lot -Other
real estate owned
: Furniture and fixtures
j Due from other banks -
Paper currency
Fractional paper currency,
niekles and cents
Gold coin
, Silver coin
, County warants
500.00
.500.00
1,124 85
406.33
5.55'.l,94
1,955.00
11686
25.00
475.00
541.12
Total
S 122,99 .56
LIABILITIES.
Capital stock paid in 41,000 00
Undivided profiits.less anwu it
paid for interest, expen
ses and taxes - 1.70l70
Individual deposits, including
savings deposits - 74, !t);i 4
..Tkiie certificates of depo.sits.5,985 02
Total - 122,995 5i;
I, L T Fox, cashier, do solemnly
swear that the above is a true
statement of the financial eonditioi.
of the Chickasaw Coin.ty Bank lo
cated at Houston, in the County of
Chickasaw, State of Mississippi, at
the close of business on the 7th day
of March I9!6, to the best of my
knowledge and belief. Correct
Attest. L. T. Fox. Cashier
A M Harley
E P Wilson, Directors.
State of Mississippi.
County of Chickasaw.
Sworn to and subscribed before
me by LT Fox, this IS? li day of
March m
Jeff Busby, Notary Public.
My commission expires Aug. loth
im.
Total - $55,(58(5. 19
LIABILITIES
Capital slock paid ie $10,000.00
Surplus fund - 300.00
Undivided profits, less amount
paid for interest, expenses
and taxes - ' 780.72
Individual deposits, including
saving deposits - 36,883.97
Time certificates of deposit 2,550.00
Bills payable, including certifi
cates of deposits, representing
money borrowed - 5,000.00
Reserved for accrued inter
est 01. deposits - 34.70
Res : ve! ;' r accrued taxes 1680
I 'ne. rii(i interest - 80.00
IYnt ac ,.1" - - 40.00
T-a! - - $55.68019
I, H I A. a :f cashier, do soleinly
, lu above is a true
f : .' financial condition
cuiki, located at tloul-
'i.i'oiy of Chickasaw,
s ss'jyi, at the close of
' i" 1 tli day of March
01 of my knowledge
; ,nvt Attest,
i i Atwell, Cashier
rdl
' 1 .:-('. y. Directors
s 'Hiiy of Chickasaw
1 .o'iscribed before
I'.' us the Kith day
seear
si itece
of Ban!,
ka. in 1
State ol
bii':inessii
I'M',, to the
and hehef
0 M
J C
State of V -s
Sworn to .
me by R '. ,
of March 1' :
J W !l 1
Mv
1917.
on 1
Notary Public
(tires July 3rd
citizenship i;i chic coufjty
DEAR MR. EDITOR:
I want to ask your indulgence while I attempt to dis
cuss for a few minutes with you and your readers a mat
of vital interest to the people of this Town and County. It
is very gratifying to know that the timely article which
appeared in your paper last week, written hy Rev G W
Riley, and which was followed a few hours laterhy a quite
generally signed petition, committing a large majority of
the male population of this Town and vicinity to the idea
of upholding the officers os this Town and County in their
efforts to enforce the laws against public drunkenness,
vagran-y, hoot-legging, blind-tigers, etc., have already be
gun to bear splendid fruit. This observation is evidenced
by the almost perfect order that prevailed on our stteets,
and everywhere, last Saturday afternoon and night. As
compared with the order that has existed for some-time
previous thereto, it seemed like a Sunday evening. This
is indeed good to contemplate, and so far, so good. But, the
thing to be considered, is the future. Lets' all of us, offi-
rcers and people alike, determine and resolve that there
shall be no cessation of our efforts to make this the most
law-abiding community in the State, Is it in our power
to make it such? Certainly it is. We can have whatever
we want or demand in the way of law enforcement. The
trouble has been along that our people have been sleeping.
They have not been awake to their best interests, mater
ial, moral and spiritual. Every one, apparently, has been
waiting for the other fellow to take the iniative. There has
been a disposition on the part of the people to tolerate the
conditions that have heretofore obtained, and each man
has been waiting for the other to sound the alarm and
give the violators notice that a halt has been called in
their proceedings. And 11W, since our people have spo
ken, and have pledged themselves to co-operate, to the
fullest extent, with the officers in their efforts to rid this
community of law violations and law violator, it is highly
important that we make good in every particular our
promise. Lets' take no backward step. Every man
should be on the watch and if any infraction of the law is
observed, report it to the proper authorities, whose duty it
will then be to see that the offender is speedily brought to
justice. Officers like to know that they have the co-operation
and moral support of their constituents, whose ser
vants they are. No law, however just and sound, is capa
ble of being enforced, or is worth the space that it con
sumes upon the books, 'unless it it steadily and consistent
ly upheld by a wholesome public sentiment; and no exe
cutive officer will or can discharge his full and complete
duty to the public unless he has the consciousness at all
times that he has the support and backing of the moral
and law abiding element of his constituency. It will be
seen, then, that if we are to have conditions to our liking
in this Town and County, there are duties that devolve
upon both the officers and the citizens, the proper perfor
mance of which are absolutely necessary to an adequate
enforcement of the laws relating to the evils that have
infested our Town and County for so long. It is the duty
of every good citizen to give his moral support to the offi
cers, and if the citizens should, by chance or otherwise
apprehend any one engaged in an unlawful act, he should,
promptly make known such fact to the proper officers. It
will then be the latter's duty to arrest the offender and
carry him before the proper tribunal for trial and punish
ment. Of course, it cannot be maintained that it is the
duty of the private citizen to constitute himself a police
man for the purpose of apprehending and running down
criminals generally, or those engaged in unlawful enter
prises. Primarily, that is the duty of the officers. The
private citizen has a right to arrest a known felon, with
or withont warrant, and the officer has the authority to
deputize him to assist him in cases of emergency, where
the offender is guilty of a misdeameauor only. Again, the
Mayor and Board of Aldermen have the power to appoint
special deputies at any time, where the conditions and
circumstances demand or require it. But, it is the duty
of every good man to be a CITIZEN and a PATRIOT. In
order to be such it is not only necessary that he be law
loving and law-abiding himself, but he should be willing
and ready, at all times, to make some personal sacrifice, if
need be, to mate his erring neighbor law-abiding, as well.
It is unfortunately true thatorce is often necessary
to the inculcation of moral principle. While we are ad
monished to "tember justice with mercy," yet experience
and observation both have taught us over and over again,
that, with some people, judicial leniency is the defendant's
ruin. It too often invites a repetition of the offense, and
UNCLE SI DOllliMO.--
After many months of patience with the bandit VilLv
Uncle Sam has slipped off his kid gloves and gone at bin
with the mailed fist. Although Uncle Sam sincerely wan
ted to keep out of that treacherous country he could m
any longer put up with the depredations occurrii,.:
almost every day.
If the president had not said "Go get Villa dead
alive" the pWple would have raised such a hullabaloo
about it there is no telling just what the frenzy of the
country would have come to. So the soldiers are at las
on Villa's trail and they are eager for the fray.
The Mexicans are so wishy-washy it would not be sur
prising if Carranza should declare war on the United
States. He is receiving too much ammunition from the,
states and it nuiv be a trick he is playing to make the
people think it is for the pursuit of Villa in cahoots wit!)
the American army. After he gets a big supply of fight
ing material it is possible for him to turn against his ben
efactors. If he does it will be one of the most treacherous
deeds ever done by anybody anywhere. We hope thou,.:
he will go on as now and help the best be can, for shouiu
Villa be captured,Carranza would be the undisputed ruler
of Mexico.. He has a good future if he works his noodle.
Uncle Sam may yet have to either annex 'Mexico or
subdue the whole push. The Villa chase may take anoth
er week and it may take a year. Guerrilla warfare w;.i
be the natural mode of fighting. Has anybody here .seen
the Mexican NAVY?????
the natural consequence is the sinner goes deeper and
deeper into the vortex of criminality, and justice is there
by defeated and thwarted, and the people and state suffji
therefrom,
It was the almost life-long boast of the late Sam P.
Jones that there was not a blind-tiger or boot-legger in hi;;
home town of Cartersville, Ga., infact he took particular
pride, wherever he went throughout the broad land, preach
ing the gospel of a Risen Christ, in telling that no uva
could go to that little city and purchase a pint of anything
capable of producing intoxication. In almost every city
in the South he offered a reward of $300.00 from the pul
pit to any man who would go to his home City and pur
chase a pint of whiskey, whether he went as a visitor, de
tective or otherwise. This town, according to census re
turns, is about twice the size of Houston. What a glorious
thing it would be if we could only make' that declaration
with the ability to sustain it! And yet is it possible?
What was possible for Sam Jones and the people of his
home town, is possible for the people and officers of the
Town of Houston. There is, proportionately, as much
courage, moral and physical, in the Town of Houston, as
you will find anywhere on earth. There is no discounting
the fact that our people are brave. They have ampiy
demonstrated that fact time and again, both in war and
peace. We sprang from the loins of courageous people.
Our people, too, are inherently law-abiding and believe
with all their hearts in law enforcement. Again, we are
a religious people. It would be difficult to find a more
spiritually inclined people anywhere than the people of
Houston.
We have a glorious and honorable past. Few towns in
the State have contributed more to the intellectual, moral,
spiritual and material development of this Commonwealth
than old Houston. It requires only a casual glance into
the past to convince the most skepticaal that her native
sons have achieved fame and distinction in every line of
human endeavor, not only in this state but in other States.
General Reuben Davis, the late celebrated criminal
lawyer, said in his "Recollections of Mississippi, "that when
he first went to Congress he was apprehensive lest he
might be abashed when he appeared upon the floor of the
House of Representative in political debate with sue-
giant statesmen as Rosco Conkling.Danie) V. Voorhes ai
Jno. J. Ingalls. But, he said it required only a brief ex '
perience at the National Capital to convince him that lie
had often clashed in forensic debate with greater intellects
at the Houston Bar than he had encountered in the halls
of Congress. What a great tribute to our noble past. We
have still in our midst men and women who readily recall
our General Featherston, General Cyrus Baldwin, J A Orr,
Col. Tim Inge, Maj. Sydney, Evans, Gen. T N Martin.
Baxter McFarland, et al, who were in their day and time
contemporaneous members of the Houston Bar, and stood
at the very apex of the profession in the state. In tU
ministerail profession, the greatest of all. we have sea
out such men as the late talented and accomplih .
Geo Inge, who was perhaps the most effective and gin
(Continued on last page)
