BREMERTON OFFICER KILLS SELF
WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT YOUR NEIGHBOR?
\X7E want you to tell on your neighbors. But we want to hear only the nice things. The Star believes the fine
, spirit of neighborly fellowship is more highly developed in Seattle than in most big cities. That it is, in
fact, largely responsible for the city's wide reputation as an ideal home community. We are convinced there is
more good, wholesome, inspiring relationship among neighbors here than cynics and grouches believe exists in the whole world. And with your help we're going to convince
these cynics. We want you to write to The Star about the folks next door. You probably have reason to believe you liave the best neighbors in the city. Tell us
why you think so. Get into The Star's "My Neighbor" letter contest. Just to make it interesting, a $10 prize will be awarded the writer of the best account of his neigh
bor's virtues. The rules of the contest are simply these: Stick rigidly to facts. Do not refer to your neighbor by name use initials if you wish. Or just call him "my
neighbor." Keep your letter within ISO words. Sign your full name and give your address. AND REMEMBER WE WANT TO HEAR ONLY THE THINGS THAT
WILL WARM THE HEART! Professor Edmond S. Meany, historian of the University of Washington and a splendid neighbor to the entire state, has consented to act a*
judge. Now get busy with your letters. They need not deal with heroic affairs—just the helpfully human, every-day, make-lhe-world-better kind of things that are em
braced by neighborliness. The contest will close one week from tomorrow. The winner will be announced on Saturday, April 1.
READ THE PINK!
The annual Northwestern league meeting
is on in Seattle. Doings of vital interest to
baseball fans are happening. Edward Hill,
sporting editor of The Star, is on the job
every day. Read his dope in The Pink.
THE SOLDIER S TEST
A Short Story ot 11. S. Army Service on the Mexican Border
'PHIZ Crystal Palace, premier keno joint of Cuidad Juarez, was all
a-glitter.
Lining both sides of the Ion? baize-covered tables were rows of dev
otees of Mexico's national game; yellow-visaged peons, almond-eyed
Chinamen, race touts and carmined women of the under current, substan
tial looking Americans, gaping tourists, all elbowing each other In absorbed
contemplation of the numbered cards and the little white disks before them.
Over all reigned a brooding stillness, save for the monotonous chant
of the crier as he droned his numbers. "Eeigh-tee sev-en, number nine,
tee-wenty-three," he drawled.
The silence was sharply broken.
"KENO! STOP-P HHP!" yelled a high-pitched voice somewhere down
at the end of the hall. A babel of voices. The room buzzed as the checker
hastened to the lucky man's side.
Near the center table a chair rasped on the sanded floor as a player
arose; a youngster in civilian clothes, bit stamped, by his military bearing and
well-set shoulders, a soldier as much as if he had been branded "U. S."
"I'm cleaned for fair." he soliloquized as he searched thru his pockets.
"Not even a measly dobe."
Shouldering thru the crowd, he made his way to the exit. Outside he
paused in the darkness to gulp in a draft of the night-cooled air.
From the shadows a dusky figure stole to his side; a soft hand found
his. A low laugh rippled out, in which there was the melody of "I.a Pa
loma," and a voice whispered in deliciously stilted accent:
"Hul-10, Meester Joe! Het ees only Conchita. Weel you play no more,
senor?"
The soldier's arm stole about the slim waist. "Hello, 'Chita. No, I'm
busted flat."
"Come weeth me, cara mia, and meet some friends of mine. They would
speek with you."
The boy hesitated but a moment.
"Sure thing, 'Chita. I ead me to 'em," he said.
******
THK girl leading tbo way, the pair proceeded down a pitch black parage between
the adobe building* to a windowle«s ro.ni in the rear of the Crystal.
Opening the door, C onchita pushed tlie lx?y jp. Three men were seated about
a tabic with a flask of mescal and a vheai of cigarros before them.
Two were Mexicans, in soiled uniform', the other a flashily-dressed man, bearing
the unmistakable ear-mark* of a gambler.
At the sight of the soldier, the gambler broke out effusively.
"Well! well! See who's here. Come in. Sims, the water's fine"
The boy eyed him coldly.
The gambler's grin changed to a snarl.
"Come off o' that now. I want them 50 buck* you owe me, muy pronto."
"Do you?" replied Sims coolly. "Help yourself, buckaroo."
i )iie of the Mexicans raised his hand warningly.
" 'S-*h. >-eii''rs. no quarreling," he cautioned. "We are all friends. F.es ret not so?"
Addressing Sims, he continued: "Mce-ter Sims, you owe Senor Tom son some
money. For a Icetle service you can earn enough to pay him and much more. Weel
you leesten ?" .
"Shoot away," att-wered Sims, appropriating a seat and reaching for a cigaret.
"Anything that sounds like money listens g-w.d to me."
"Bueno!" exclaimed the Mexican.
He began talking rapidly.
Rather too ostentatiously careless, the o'her two arose and shuffled to the door.
The key grated in the lock. As the Mexican proceeded, Sims' face flushed: the
veins of his neck swelled. At last the Mexican had done and leaned back question
ingly. Sims was silent but a second, then spoke heartily:
"YOU BF-~T! I'm your huckleberry. I.et's all take a drink and pet down to
cases,"
The girl clapped her hands delightedly. "Bueno!" she cried. The others ex
changed triumphant glances and the tension visibly relaxed.
"Now, see here," said Sims, as he wiped his lip upon his sleeve. "You
want my machine guns fixed and 1 am to get 500 pesos for doing it. Let's
see, that's how much in gold?"
HE FUMBLED in his gray-green blouse.
"Where in the devil's my pencil? I'll figure it out."
His han# stole into his shirt bosom and an automatic frowned in the light.
"Hands up, PRONTO!" came the el'sp command
The automatic covered all four at once. They were paralyzed by the suddenness
of it.
Sims arose and backed to the door, ile unlocked it, drew it oprn and transferred
the key to the outside.
"STEADY NOW," lie menaced as the men started up. "or I'll fill you full of
Uncle Sam's lead. YOU, TOO, 'CHITA! Tom son, come across to the post manana
and collect that fifty. A NICK HEMP NECKTIE goes with it, you cur. BUF.NOS
NOCHES, senors." »
Quick as a flash he swung himself out, slammed the door and turned the key in
the lock.
Half way down the alli-y he paused to light a cigaret.
"ME jam them rapid ffrers?" he snorted. "MY BABIES? Huh! they've got
their nerve."
The Seattle Star
: THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS i
VOLUME 18
SEATTLE, WASH., FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1916.
SENATE DEBATES MEXICAN WAR PERU
Hay Bill, Passed by House, Called Inadequate
CRITICISE
IGNORING
U.S.LAWS
Militia Provisions Conflict
With Clause in
Constitution
TERMB INSUFFICIENT
By Gilson Gardner
WASHINGTON, March 21
"Inadequate" is the verdict
lof the preparedness advocates
on the Hay hill, passed by an
almost unanimous vote of the
i house late Thursday.
This measure »eeks to in
irease the regular army from
its present strength of 100,-
ono men to 140,000.
The War College recom
mended to the president an
increase to 2J50.000, with a
reserve of regulars number-)
ing worm
The Hay bill would add
reserve regulars le-»«-
than one sixth of the number
recommended by the War Col- (
lege.
The bill passed by a vote of 402
to 2 Hrltton of Illinois nnd Ix>n I
<lon. the socialist tn#>mb«»r. were th«
Iwo who voted agaln*t It.
Hrltton thought the bill should
hsve provided f° r ■ larger army.
Tim hill provide* for building up,
within five years, of a force of 425.-
000 federalized guardsmen. and con
tain* a provision for summer train
Ins camps, from whlrh a third form
of f<-d«>ral volunteers Is exported to
he developed.
Thea measure today Is In the
senate, where It will he considered
Monday. It will be combined with
the Chamberlain army hill In the
senate. It Is expected, and the best
provision* of the two bills molded
Into one ui«>n which a conference
committee of the two branched ci
agree.
The Ha.v hill lays emphasis on
the mllltla, and the act contain*
elaborate provision* Intended to
overcome that paragraph In the
constitution of the t'nlted States
which require* that the mllltis
*hnll be under the authority of the
various states.
Under thin clause the appoint
(Continued on Page 12.)
JEFF IS CROWNED
For an hour there wasn't a
sound save the click of chip
against chip, then Jeff came
out —but turn to page 11 and
have a laugh with Bud Fisher.
Mutt and Jeff and Crar Nick
are on their way to the Big
Fight.
EVERETT TRUE TURNS SPRING POET!—(BUT HIS OUTB
OFFICER IS A SUICIDE
Takes Life Aboard Cruiser Saratoga
•NCMtftTON. March 24 —
O. C. Pallthorpe. 10. a junior
lieutenant aboard the cruller
Saratoga, shot himself In his
quarters aboard her at •
•'clack Friday morning, and
w«SF*lmoet Instantly.
Capt Coonti. commandant
at the navy yard, has appoint
ad a board of inquest to ea
amlne Into the tragedy.
No reason Is ae yet known
to the commandant for the
commandant for* the young
MARY WILL SEE FIGHT
Society Folk Reserve Ringside Seats
Mary Plckford, Famous Moving Picture Star
NEW YORK. March 24.—1t
heglns to look a* If the famous
"Diamond Horseshoe" of the
old Metropolitan Opera house
would be thrown into a cold
and clammy shade by the array
of socially elect who will view
the less WI Herd Frit Morati
in round Unlit thru opera
it MudiMin Square Har
den tomorrow night.
It leaked out today that the
lint of rltigxlde reservations
might look like a page from
the blue honk Several hun
dred women will he present.
Among those who will see
the heavyweights pummel one
one ceni
man's »et. The eruiser re
cently returned from elx year*'
dut/ »t the China station, all
ot which time Pailthorpe was
aboard her. He ia unmarried,
and graduated from the An
napol« naval academy Irt HlO.
being SMlgned Immediately to
the Saratoga.
"I wat amaied and horrified
to hear of hia eulelde," aaid
the commandant. "I law him
yesterday. He appeared to be
jolly and In hie usual eplendid
spirits."
another are Oeraldlne Farrnr,
the prima dnnna; Mary I'lck
ford. the motion picture ac
tre*a; David Belaseo's daugh
ter, and many of their friends.
Llndley M. Garrison, former
secretary of war, will he there.
Alro John McCormack, the
tenor; Jim Corhett; Robert
rit/.Klmnions, et al.
AMSTERDAM. March 24.—
Flushing correspondents of Am
sterdam newspapers reported
aounda of heavy firing In the
English channel today. The
nolae seemed to come from the
direction of Oetend and
Westende.
LAST EDITION
While tome folks are fussing about spe
cial prosecutors and such to make the city
dry, they can't stop George Salisbury's
wet blanket. He says: "Rain tonight and
Saturday."
TROOPERS
GET VILI A
IN A TRAP
WASHINGTON, March 24.—A charge that "minister
forces" were trying t<> inflame the I'nited States and Mexico
and cause war between them was made today by Sen. Stone.
He made this assertion after telegrams telling of serious con
ditions on the Texas and Arizona borders had been read in the
senate.
"Kvery man with sense enough to come in out of the wet
knows the situation in Mexico i- critical—that an effort is
iK-ing made by sinister influences in and <<utside of Mexico to
excite and inflame the Mexicans, to tell them that the I'nited
I States contemplates aggression against the whole government
and the people of Mexico.
"The president sought to impress the Mexicans with his
I friendliness and the senate indorsed his stand.
"But there are influences at work, and we know it—work-
Zing to create a situation the end of which we could not know.
"Will the senators make the present critical condition
worse?"
Stone and Borah clashed when Borah and Sheppard of
Texas caused telegrams to be read from Douglas citizens,
asking help and expressing fear of massayes and invasion.
State militia will not be mobilized otr the Mexican bor<! r
at present.
In the light of reports from consuls in Mexico and arn
men with the punitive expedition. President Wilson and his
jcabinet, at a conference today, decided there was no need
for either volunteers or militia.
It is possible that more regulars may be rushed to the
line Secretary of War Baker said today he had not yet given
(Turn to page 2, column 1)
T.I. PASO. March 24 Francisco Villa is reported sur
rounded. He may be engaged in battle by American forces
today. i
According to a message from Col. Bertani, Carran/a
troops routed Villa east of X&miquipa, and the bandit wa<
enveloped by Bertani's troops and the Americans under Brig.
Gen. John J. Pershing.
Consul Garcia made public Bertani's report,, stating that
it was impossible for Villa to escape the trap, and that his
capture was imminently expected.
In his report Bertani said Villa retreated toward PI Oso,
five miles south of Xamiquipa, after a fight in which he
lost several killed and 100 horses. The Americans co-oper
ating with the Carranzistas against Villa are believed to he
either Col. Dodd's or Pershing's men, who were sent south
from Casas Grandes in troop trains over the railroad.
Jose Flores, Arriving at El Paso, i
declared Villa boarded a railroad
train near Mocteznma and stalked
thru the cars, declaring he would
kill Americana aboard
No Americans were found.
Villa also Informed the passen
gers that Gen. I,uls llerrera had ;
Joined him
Many Declare Him Loyal
The preponderance of opinion, !
however. Is that llerrera Is loyal to
t'nrranza.
Arrivals from Chihuahua City
naw him Tuesday. Telegrams from
Chihuahua City officials quote ller '
URSTS LOSE NONE OF THEIR VIM!)
I rera as vigorously asserting hla
■ loyalty
Since the rumor of his defection,
llerrera is said to have declared
\merlcans have no right to enter
Mexico In pursuit of Villa, but that.
In spite of his belief, he did not
Intend to join the Vllllstas.
(ien. Hell is one of the few
American officials who believes
llerrera to be a traitor.
MaJ. Sample, commandant her«.
stated he had no Information about
any engagement between Villa an<|
Pershing's forces. The field wire-
was In good order, he said.
