VKAK. No. :i4.
BOOMING SEED GROWING.
'V C. Heideman. of Bonners Kerry.
the seed grower and enthuaias-
advocate of commercial seed siow
on a large scale, spent three or
HHur days in this part of the county
I;Spring the past week, delivering a Icc-
IBiv la-tore a hirge audience, princip
of fanners and members of the
Seed Brower’s association, in
Fellow's Hall Saturday afternoon,
before the Seed Brower's associa-
of Tonasket Tuesday, Mr. Heidc-
was here hist November, met
fanners, and spoke before the
club and other meetings
sSce his hobby, one that is based upon
H^nclh -ability and results. At the time
!■ aroused uiirch interest among land
under tin- irrigation system,
the organization of seed grower's
iations was an outgrowth ol that
lie came to Oroville and Tonas-
on the present occasion at the in-
of those associations, the
being desirous of further In-
as to the best methods of
to bring about the best re-
Sts.
■Jßesiliig and convincing talkers that
fjmp ever aihiressetl an audience in
He is not an orator but he
A a happy faculty of being able to
smoothly, earnestly and convinc
-Kly He has devoted a life time to
tilt it ra I pursuits, both in a prac-
way and its an expert in the agri
department of the govern-
Hnt He knows what he is talking
tint! furthermore knows how
convey information to others
the medium of speech. He has
been interested in solving the
of growing high class seed,
tinil true to name, and in recent
■is he hits organized a seed grower's
in northern Idaho. He ie
■led that locality because he insists
the country best adapted to the
■wing of high grade seeds is within
»ißurri)w strip of territory along on
sides of the international line,
grown seed, he alleged, is
the best tint! most certain
mat ion on the market which
;i ready sale for till seeds
■ut in this valley, no matter what
in tlie i|uanlity. Although located
he considers that this partic
spot holds many advantages over
i'aßothcr sections for better seed pro
«Btioii, and gives sound reasons for
.
it he was here before Mr. Meide-
JBn confined himself to three sub
vßs in treating on commercial seed
or three heads of that sub
jppil: "Can you grow them. Can you
-■1 them. Will it pay?” He so eluci-
the subject under those several
nils that no one who was present
:|Bd heard him doubted for a moment
the seed could be grown, that a
SHrket was ever open, and that the
SHsiness would pay handsomely. At
3p lectures Saturday he dwelt very
yWcily upon these questions, feeling,
stated, that those who had given
hKp matter any thought were well sat-
IHied in their own minds. He devoted
U|dsi of his time to showing the extent
HI the present shortage of seed, which
really alarming, caused largely by
He farmers of the United States de
manding upon European countries, now
on account of the war,
something they can readily pro-
Htcc themselves and explaining the
Hit'est and best methods of procedure
■ order to perfect organization and
the very best results from that
He told the story of the
that confronted him
Hi awakening and organizing the farm
■rs of Idaho, and he extended advice
Hint would enable growers of the Oka-
Bogan valley to start right and escape
Hie difficulties that made the going to
Hard for him in Idaho.
■ The indications are that ont of these
Bjrisits of Mr. Heiderman an industry
will grow up in this valley that is go-
Ijpig to contribute to the wealth of the
Snidividtuil resident and eventually
istablish a reputation for Okanogan
ieed that will give them a preference
n the-open market over all competl
ors. As stated elsewhere in this item
wo seed grower's associations have
teen organized as the result of Mr.
ieideman's first visit and the mem
lets of those organizations are more
letermlned than ever to give commer
■ial seed growing a thorough test
iince the gentleman’s last visit. Those
who have embarked in the enterprise
ire earnest and enthusiastic. Success,
f the start is faithfully followed out
to the end, is certain. Each step in
the establishment of the new industry
will be watched with a great deal of
interest, and every aid and encourage
ment should be extended to the pio
neers in the seed growing movement
by the business men of both Oroville
and Tonasket.
There were so many elegant cos
tumes and well sustained characters at
the masquerade that the committee
appointed to select those most worthy
of prizes found their task a difficult
one. After naming the four to whom
prizes were to be awarded, the best
dressed lady and gentleman and the
best sustained characters represented
by a lady and gentleman, the commit
tee were empower to make four honor
able mentions, and could have named
a dozen. After careful consideration of
all claims for honorary mention, the
committee selected Mrs. Erwin, whose
costume was made up of school pen
nants, and Mrs. E. E. Parson, who rep
resented irrigation among the ladies,
and ,T. C. Stevens, as a Hindoo and
Wm, Sampere, as tramp A No. 1,
among the gentlemen.
O K\ K \\ \l TT <%\ MniiHßßiiiwiniiHiiiuiiiininnnirginrnTriinirßiiiTiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiimmm
i -i. My. iii iit ~ I , _____ tt w . _ Bp mwmp-
Hnliiutfil aVaV/tSV/SN It if Fn
3 * Drat
Horace E. Smith, county engineer,
was in town Tuesday from Okanogan.
The object of his visit was to go over
the West Okanogan Irrigation system
in this vicinity on a tour of inspection
in his official capacity and check
the work, and notwithstanding the in
clement weather the inspection was
made in company with members of the
local force of engineers and represen
tatives of the district board of direct
ors. If there is any one in the county
qualified to pass judgment upon the
character of the work performed in
the construction of the irrigation sys
tem and the materials used it is an
experienced engineer and surveyor,
and such an individual is Mr. Smith,
who is considered to be an authority
in his profession. He has the reputa
tion of being botli capable and thor
ough, and an opinion expressed by him
has weight and should carry convic
tion.
Mr. Smith stated in this office that
the system has been most admirably
constructed, and there could be no
fault found with any of the details.
He considered the ditches and flumes
not only well built, but permanently
built and one of -the best systems that
has ever come under his observation.
He was surprised to find the system
so nearly completed, and expressed it
ns his opinion that if no ttnforseen ac
cident intervened water could be turn
ed on in May. Mr. Smith spoke freely
tint! earnestly upon the subject, reach
ing his conclusions after careful ex
amination of every phase of the work.
It is a satisfaction to quote such evi
dence from such a reliable source, and
especially as it is not influenced by
any interest hold in or under the pro
ject by the party so expresing him
self.
DEATH OF A WORTHY YOUTH.
Glen Joseph Sherriff, of Anglin, aged
22 years, died of peritonitis at St. Jo
seph’s hospital early Tuesday morning.
A week or ten days prior to his death
the deceased suffered from severe
pains in the groin, but in a day or
two he felt better and was working
about tbe farm. The latter part of the
week he was again taken down and his
condition became alarming. Dr. Clough
of Tonasket was called. He recognized
at once that the young man was suf
fering from appendicitis in its worst
form, and he had the young man taken
at once to the Orovllle hospital for an
operation. Dr. Lewis states that when
the patient reached here he was so
low that his pulse had almost stopped
and there was only a slight beating of
the heart. The young man never ral
lied, became unconscious Monday
night and died toward morning.
The deceased was a steady, industri
ous young man of sterling character,
a great favorite among his acquain
tances, and his untimely death is a ter
rible blow to his parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph Sherriff. They have had more
than their share of misfortune to bear
for during the past four years they
have lost their four eldest children.
The sympathy of neighbors and friends
goes out to them in their deep afflic
tion. The remains were shipped to An
glin Tuesday morning where the fun
eral took place Wednesday.
The sad news of the sudden and un
expected death of Miss Mary Sherlock,
which occurred last Thursday at the
Sacred Heart hospital, Spokane, was
received here by the friends of the de
ceased Monday. Miss Sherlock came to
Oroville with the Misses Stacks some
tour years ago, from Amsterdam, New
York. At that time she was in very
poor health, and her physicians pre
dicted that she could live bu| a few
months at the best. She gained strength
almost at once in this climate and took
ui> a homestead on the mountain a
short distance southwest of Oroville.
She was an accomplished and talented
young lady full of life and energy after
regaining her health, i.nd was a gener
al favorite in the neighborhood where
she lived. She took charge of her
homestead, and last year raised a con
siderable quantity of the celebrated
Marquis wheat. She went out to Spo
kane from here a short time ago, evi
dently took sick without the knowledge
of her friends here, as her death was
much of a surprise. She was a consist
ent and devout member of the Catholic
church. She is survived by one sister
living at Amsterdam, N. Y. The funeral
took place at Spokane, Wednesday.
Miss Katherine Stack and Mr. and Mrs.
W. O. Steele left Tuesday for Spokane
to attend .he funeral.
VV. \V. Parry of Molson, was in town
Tuesday. Mr. Parry is one of the
early settlers of the valley. A few
years ago and for years Mr. Parry was
the chief mogul of the old settlement
of Tonasket. a short distance south
of tlie present town of Tonasket. He
had a store, a postoffice, a livery barn,
a hotel, a saloon and a ferry at that
point, and between the combination he
was the busiest man in the Okanogan
valley. The Parry ferry was on the old
stage road between l.ooinis and Re
public, over which passengers and
mail were carried until the railroad
was built into Oroviile. and that was
some time ago. when you come to
think about it. The Parry ferry crossed
more teams and people than any ferry
on the Okanogan river. That was the
days before there wt're any bridges
across the stream from the Columbia
river to Osoyoos lake, except one at
Oro, that was not as yet large enough
to even annex the second syllable of
“vllle.” Today the old settlement of
Tonasket exists only as a memory.
TESTIMONY OF WEIGHT,
DIED AT SPOKANE,
NEW OKANOGAN COUNTY COURT HOUSE
The above picture is a front view of
the new county court house, recently
completed and occupied at Okanogan
and the thanks of tills office is due to
the Okanogan Independent for the
privillge of its use. It is not what the
craft would cull a first class cut, but
it is sufficiently distinct to give the
rrader an idea what the new building
in which the county officials are stor
ed away, looks like. This court house,
as a public building, would not take
the grand prize for architectural beau
ty. The lines are not so graceful, nor
striking nor attractive as to call forth
bursts of enthusiastic praise when the
eye rests for the first time upon its
outlines. Finished in a concrete or
plaster exterior it is a cold, dull, se
vere, uninviting looking structure, no
doubt in proper form as to the style
selected, but better taste could have
been exercised in making the select
ion of style, which would have added
beauty without detracting from the
utility. It is different, and because,
probably, it is different, accounts for
file decision of those whose duty is
was to select a design. Or, again, the
style may have been chosen because it
gave a greater exposure of construc
tural surface than could be provided
under any other design presented for
consideration for the amount of money
that could be diverted to that object.
These remarks are not intended as a
knock. Heaven forbid. It is merely a
plain statement of an impression form
ed on the occasion of first inspecting
the premises. The court house is so
far superior to anything the county
A (JKAM) SUCCESS.
The thief source cf social pleasure
lotion}, a large percentage of the popu-
Mion in all smaller towns of the west
it- a anting. Young people, aye, many
o' the older people for that matte*
wt'i exert themselves to a greater d -
gree on the ball room floor between
!• ]•. in. and 2 a. in., ot later, than they
\ mild in doing the hardest kind ot r>
day's work. But it is pleasure that is
extracted from (he dizzy round, and it
is pleasure that the average human is
utiii- at any price. In Oroville, the
lanct is frequent and furious, furious
ia the matter of violent exercise. It la
ti'nost a weekly diversion, especially
during the fall, winter and spring
months. On the whole, it is an inno
cent diversion, and for one, we have
never had any conscientious scruples
against the dance. The only reason we
are not today ot tnosc who “caper
nimbly to the pleasings of a lute,” is
that the weight of years has thrown
our feet out of commission. The desire
is there every time music strikes up,
but the ability to perform is lacking.
This homily is only a prelude to re
marking that there are dances and
dances. The gay multitude swarm to
dances in Oroville, and in the past
there has been many notable gather
ings of the kind, remarkable in point
of attendance and the amount ot pleas
ure in circulation. Yet of them all,
there probably never has been such a
successful dance, in the matter of
crowd and general satisfaction on the
part of the participants, as that given
on St. Patrick’s day evening, last Fri
day, for the benefit and under the
management of the local band. This so
cial affair was in the nature of a mas
querade, and the whole country side,
as well as the bulk of the town popu
lation, gathered there as active par
ticipants in the grotesque gathering
on the floor, or as lookers on at the
OROVILLE, WASHINGTON. MARCH 24, 191G
has evei heretofore been able 10 boast
of in the way of a pnullc building that
if it were ten times attractive it
would be a palace in fcomparasoa witii
the shell ami shack Jhat for so many
.' ears did duty as a cpurt lumpe, Vie
building may strike i.j'hers much more
favorably, and il is net so Sail after
■ II when you once give It the look over
inside and out. The chief fault feat the
majority will find with the structure,
is its size, ir lack of size. Even now
tiiat the officers are fairly installed in
the various looms set aside or the
various departments the occupants
find themselves cro.vded. The building
it hardly adequate for the business of
today, and the coutny will far out
grow it by ib< morrow That is partic
ularly unfortunate.
This new court house is of the Span
ish mission architecture, which means
straight lines with little ornamenta
tion, a square tower in the center with
an impression of solidity, diminutive
jogs taking no particular form or
shape along the root, tilling top, with
a general ensemble presenting an air
of the sleepy southland. There is one
thing about its construction that is
creditable, and that is the county re
ceived full value for the money ex
pended. There was no graft, and the
contractor lived so fairly up to his
estimate that report has it he went
broke on the job. There is nothing
gained haggling over style, because
that resolves itself only to a matter of
taste. To some the building may be a
thing of beauty. Okanogan county has
received the full worth of the money
carnival. The Orphcum has a large
floor space, yet almost every foot of
that apace was occupied. A dense mass
of sightseers encroached upon the
floor, leaving narrow space for the
dancers. This did not detract in the
least from the gayety ever in attend
ance. The best of good cheer, good
humor, happy merriment prevailed,
and the he or she who was not there
missed one of the greatest dances and
most enjoyable masquerades, in point
of number of maskers and diversity of
costumes, ever seen in Oroville.
It was a motley crew that tramped
over the narrow territory left hy the
crowd for the grand march, made up
of almost every imaginable character.
It was where impersonators of high
and low degree met on a common foot
ing. The prince and the pauper were
there cheek by Jowl, and the princess
and the negroess touched elbows.
When tangled in the dizzy whirl the
floor presented the tangled colors of
a kaledioscope. The dainty and the
rude, the pretty and fantastic, the
gentle and the rough intermingled in
happy abandon.
Where there were so many excellent:
costumes and well sustained charact
ers it taxed the discernment and judg
ment of the committee selected for
that purpose to decide upon those cn
tiilcd to the prizes offered. Acocrding
to the findings of that committee Miss
Lu'cile Gardiner was awarded the
prize as the best dressed lady. She
represented a colonial dame, a por
trayal that set off her charming per
personality to the best advantage. Mrs.
D T. Chamberlain, as a shepardess was
awarded the prize for the best sustain
ed lady character. Beverly Powell, as a
Mexican took the prize as the best
dressed male character, and for the
best sustained characterization the
prize was awarded to Mr. and Mrs. W.
A. Kerr and their little daughter
Lyle. Tliis presentation was the best
devoted to the purpose in what, to ail
outward and visible appearances,
looks like a substantial court house.
To tlie town of Okanogan the new
court house is a conspicuous and
handsome addition. Built on high
ground and overlooking the business
section, (lie river and valley, grounds
that can easily and will be beautified,
it is about tlie first object, and an im
pressionable object that strikes the eye
of the traveler approaching Okanogan
from tlie north or south. It may be a
case of “distance lends enchantment
1o the view," for seeing the huge pile,
liege, as compared to other buildings,
and massive tower looming over all
surrounding objects creates a most
favorable impression. It is a sightly
location tills citadel of justice occu
pies, and the Okanoganites would lack
loyalty to home it they did not rejoice
in its possession and look upon it as
tlie cliief feature of their town, a
feature that has a value not only as a
public edifice but as a strong factor in
attracting to that place hundreds of
people who would not otherwise make
pilgrimages to tlie town. Grouped upon
the west bank of tlie Okanogan river,
with tlie narrow valley rising rapidly
into tlie foothills, with the residence
section washing gradually to he west
ward and upward from the central
marts of trade, Okanogan presents a
pretty picture as one comes within
view of the place, and that picture is
enhanced and intensified under the
glamor of a radient sunshine with the
solid outlines of tlie new court house
sillioutteil against the sky line.
on the floor. Mr. and Mrs. Kerr repre
sented Italian organ grinders, and
diminutive Lyle, as a monkey, played
pranks at the end of a leading string
and passed a cup for contributions. It
was far and away the best gotten up
group that has ever been seen at. a
masquerade in this county.
The receipts for the evening were
naturally heavy, and the money will
go far toward meeting the cost of a
complete new uniform that the band
has already placed an order for.
00 NOT MISS IT.
The big thing that is going to be
pulled off tonight under the auspices
of the Commercial Club, combining a
high class entertainment with a first
class dance to follow, should drag out
every citizen of the place. Those who
have conscientious qualms against
dancing need not remain after the pro
gram. but they cannot afford to miss
that feature, for those who are to take
part are proficient in their several
roles, and it will be a treat that the
people of this place rarely have an op
portunity to enjoy. The first number
will be called promptly at 8:30 so be
on time. Admittance will he 50 cents to
the entertainment, with a further tax
of 75 cents for those who wish to
linger and take part in the dance. Just
to let the public know the good things
in store for the patrons the following
program is published:
pull-evrdanc-wiofaotshrdeltaoinhrdluu
Overture Orchestra
Song Mrs. G. R, Major
Piano Duet Mrs. C.
C. Hedger and Mrs. E. S. Taylor.
Song S. B. Starrett
Trombone Solo E. W. Mallory
Song Miss Eliza Grathwohl
Selection Orchestra
Song Mrs. D. H. Lewis
Violin Solo W. L. Steiner
Selection Orchestra
Xylophone Harry Ingham
DISASTROUS FIRE.
One of the most disastrous fires in
the amount of loss that has occur
red in the county for years was the to
tal destruction of the Tonasket flour
mill, owned by M. Schweikert, which
occurred early Monday morning. The
fire was first discovered by Mr. Sch
vveikert, and at that times the flames
were bursting from the cupola. The
only hose in the own was at. the mill,
and this Mr. Schweikert attached to a
hydrant and had a stream of water
playing on the fire in a few minutes,
but the fire had secured too great a
start for a single stream to have any
effect. A general alarm drew most of
the citizens of the place to the scene,
T. C. Dodge and a crew of fire fighters
concentrated their efforts toward sav
ing an annex on the east side of the
mill, which contained the engine,
Pump, dynamo and switch board that
is connected with the service that sup
plies the town with water and light.
Fortunately the floor of this addition
is some six feet below the surface, the
wall of concrete with a concrete floor
above. Many Hines the flames en
croached upon this addition, but by
hard work the firemen succeeded In
saving the property. The room con
tained a big 40-horse power Bessemer
low grade oil engine, a triplex Gould
pump, twltchboard and IT K. W. West
inghoure dynamo. The cause of the fire
is not known, but is supposed to have
been spontaneous combustion in oily
waste used about the machinery in the
mill. The loss on building, machinery
and stock is said to be $25,000, with
$14,000 insurance.
The Tonasket flour mill grew to be
a considerable institution from a very
small beginning, through the enter
prise of the proprietor, Mr. Schweik
crt. The loss is a very severe one to
him, and whether he will rebuild again
is at this time unknown. The mill has
been a large factor in the business life
of Tonasket, as its presence has at
tracted much trade to that place. Con
sidering what an important industry
it has been to the town the people of
Tonasket will no doubt, make some ar
rangement to have the mill rebuilt.
get some of them.
Hot cross buns. Hot cross buns.
If your daughters don't want them
Get them for your sons.
One a penny, two a penny.
Hot cross buns. *
So goes the nursery rhyme, so dear
to childhood, and that is what the la
dies of Trinity Guild exclaim as they
invite the public to invest in samples
of hot cross buns which will be on
sale in the lobby of the Hotel de Grubb
this Friday afternoon. The buns are to
be built by artists of long experience
in the manufacture of toothsome dain
ties from the ingredients that enter
into the staff of life. Stroll around to
the mart this p. m. and get some.
—
GOOD HOADS MEETING.
We are requested to announce that
a good roads meeting will be held in
Odd Fellows hall. Saturday afternoon,
April 1. This is the date of the regular
meeting of the Farmers’ Union, but
that organization willingly turns the
hall over to the good roads meet, as it
i sto the farmers who are interested in
goor roads. At this meeting road mut
ters will be discussed and plans made
to secure as many as possible to attend
the good roads meeting at Okanogan
on the 5t hof April.
('LEAN I I* DAV.
Dr. E. E. Efner, as town health offi
cer, has instructed this paper to an
nounce that next Wednesday, March
20, has been selected as “clean up day,”
and owners of property about town
are requested to make a note of the
dale and give their premises a thor
ough renovation.
FLORICtXTDKAL SOCIETY.
To the Editor—
As we are to have a fair sometime
this fall I would like to suggest that a
floricultural society be organized in
this town as early as possible. Such a
society would be of great benefit to all
lovers of flowers in several ways, such
as the exchange of views in regard to
the variety of flowers best adapted to
our climate, also as to the mode of
cultivation and propogation of the
same, and as to the best method of
preparing the soil and the kinds of fer
tilizer most suitable for such varieties.
After several years experimenting with
flowers I have found that a great many
are not adapted to this climate, also
that some kinds will bloom profusely
if given the proper care and protec
tion in winter, which otherwise are
complete failures. Now as for roses,
there are a great many beautiful roses
which produce a profusion of bloom
for a short time only, which takes ujj
the ground that another rose which
blooms from spring until winter snows
set in, might occupy. Of the latter vari
ety a careful selection will furnish a
continual mass of bloom throughout
the whole season. I would like to sug
gest here that any one intending to
plant out roses, or almost any other
kind of flowers, should use an abund
ance of barn yard manure, well rotted.
Cow manure is the very best for roses,
dahlias, peonies, gladiolias and tube
roses, and if some coal ashes is added
it will be found that it enhances the
color of the blooms. As there will be
prizes offered at the forthcoming fair
now is the time to make preparations
for the flower garden.
E. McCAMMON.
ROAD METIM3.
Responding to a call for a good roads
meiing about seventy-five road enthu
siasts met in the Civic League building
on I lie afternoon of the 22nd. Mr. C. W.
Smith, president of the Slmllkameen-
Orovllle Good Roads association, pre
sided. County Commissioners Hugh
Miller and J. H. Green and County En
gineer Smith were present.
A letter from Slate Highway Commis
sioner Allen, relative to the State Road
No. 10 in Okanogan county was read.
Delegates to the county Better Roads
association which is to convene at
Okanogan on April !»th, were elected
from the East and West Side road asso
ciations and announcement was made
of the selection of delegates from the
Gulden and Ellemeham associations,
and from the association at Circle. Mr.
.1, 11. McGinty, president of the associa
tion at Cordell announced the dele
gates from their section would he se
lected.
County Kngineer Smith explained
the workings of the Better Roads asso
ciation |iluns and spoke at some length
explaining the work which the state
and county are doing to secure better
roads, (i was the nnauimous senti
ment that a strong delegation should
go to Okanogan on April sth.
Commissioner Miller explained the
present plans whereby the road associa
tions in die different school districts
oi the county supervise the road con
st ruction.
The opening of the up-river Simll
kameen road caused considerable dis
cussion and Mr. Harmon and Mr. Sig
rist were made a committee to secure
right-of-way for the road. Mr. Samson
recommended that a right-of-way com
mittee for each road to be opened be
selected and that it be the duty of
such committeemen to secure all wai
vers before petitions are presented for
the opening of any new roads.
Mr. Poukdales was made the right-of
way committeeman for the road north
of Oroville; Messrs DeMerchant and
Mr. Schiief for the proposed change in
the Golden road at the Frazer place
and Messrs. Truax and Hendrix for
the proposed change of the Golden
road from Grubb’s Cove Tracts, north.
Mr. McAllister explained the needs for
a road to Oroville from the section in
which he lives and was made the com
mitteeman on the right-of-way for that
section.
These committeemen were instruct
ed to report fully regarding the rights
of-way for the roads Intrusted to their
care and to Hud out what objections
are, if any are offered, to the granting
of right-of-ways and report the names
of parties refusing to sign waivers, and
their reasons.
Kxtendod discussion followed for the
road up Nine Mile creek. Messrs.
Chase and Barlow were appointed the
committeemen for the right-of-way on
that road.
Hoad Foreman Schlief presented his
budget for the improvement of roads
within his district but after some dis
cussion some slight changes were made
and the following budget approved:
$400.00 for changes in the Goldcn-
Oroville road at the Frazer place: S4OO
for tlie changes in the Golden-Oroville
road from Grubb’s Cove Tracts, north.
(This amount to bo appropriated, con
ditioned on the raising of $150.00 by
the land owners.)
SIOO.OO for the Granger hill.
The entire estimate for the taxes to
bo raised in this road district being
$1,138,00, and some monies being al
ready spent, the balance is to be left
in tlie fund for keeping the roads in
passable shape.
There was a brief discussion of the
condition of tlie state road, and espec
ially through the Hoskyn land at the
end of the constructed road. This mat
ter wag - left in the hands of the county
engineer and the commissioners.
It was moved and carried that three
trustees be appointed for the Oroville-
Similkamcen Gooil Hoads association,
and that such trustees be appointed by
tlie president, and act as inspectors to
approve all road work done and re
port the same to the association, and
also to keep a correct acocunt of the
proper balance in the road fund at all
times.
On motion the association adjourned
to meet at, 1:30 p. m. April 1.
rOI'M'IL PROCEEDINGS.
Minutes of the meeting of the town
council of Orovllle, Wash., March 20,
1910.
Present Mayor Samson, Councllmen
Beale, Kartell, Smith, Frlis and Peter
son.
Minutes of (he previous meeting read
and approved as read.
The bond of E. A. McMahon, town
treasurer, was read and on motion
was accepted.
An ordinance amending ordinance
No. 29 in regard to the office of town
attorney was read and on motion was
passed its first and second readings.
An ordinance amending ordinance
No. 59 in regard to the office of health
officer was read and on motion was
passed its first and second readings.
The bill of C. H. Neal for S2O pre
mium on treasurers bond was read and
on motion made and carried that the
bill be allowed and ordered paid.
The matter of amending the water
ordinance was discused and the water
committee were instructed to meet
with the water superintendent and
investigate the changes which at this
time seem to be necessary and also
look into the matter of having the
pump overhauled at once.
On motion the council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk.
$1.60 PER TEAR
