" - ,.'', ." . i '.'.'' - - . . . .: .-
Mem
t
S It'
VOLUME, XIV.
S ELMER. McNAIRY COUNTY TENN;, FRIDAY, march 24, !9!6.
NUMBER 37
NEW YORK
LETTER
Several volumes might be written
of. my experience while special pen
sion examiner for the covernment at
x Nashville. ' My territory extended
from Huntingdon on the west to the
Cumberland table lands on the east,
and from Kentucky to Alabama. At
Huntingdon I met people who knew
,.dear old brother Cotton, the Method
ist preacher from across the sea who
is still remembered by many families
in McNairy, and who died of cancer
V at .Watseka, Illinois,' a few vears ago.
'ftedboilfng Springs', in Macon coun
ty, are wonderful. The water of
' some of the springs is almost as black
, as ink and will tarnish a silver coin'io
a moment, while the taste is like on
ions, gun-powder and sugar mashed
op together. But the waters have
cured many people who were brought
there on beds, ready to die. Carried
? over the rough roads thirty miles
from the railroad to the spring?, they
. were almost dead from kidney and
stomach trouble, but in a week after
drinking the dark, stinking water,
' they were at the table, eating big
meals, and in two weeks ready to go
, back home.' I tried taking some of
t the water away in bottles, but it de
composed into a sort of thin, green
gruel, with neither ' taste nor smell,
nor virtue' to' it. ,v " " '
Pickett caunty,' far to the east and
: bordering Kentucky, was the poorest
place I struck. One hot August day
I had traveled far, with nothing for
'roy horse or myself to eat; the poor,
'half- starved people said the drought
had burned up everything. I was
hunting for a widow who had applied
for a pension, and it seemed as though
I never would get to her place. The
people tried to tell me the way, but
their, directions were something like
this: "You f oiler this here road til
you g:.t to the five forks of . the Little
Round Top; then ye'lj 'take the third
left hand, and that'll; carrj jre down
pa9ta guifl swamp and then ye'H bear
to the left agin.and when ye've gone
past old Jape Staggender's terbaccer
baru aboot250 yards That was
as much as I could remember at one
time, bo I thanked my Informant and
rode on, having to lay down and lay
up rail fences &s I went along. Fi
nally out in the middle of s sunburnt
dog-fennel field! of about .100' acres,
in a log cabin or hut, I located the
' old widow, swinging her bare feet
and smoking a cob pipe on the porch,
$ asked her for , something to eat
"Mister she replied, "we hain't had
nothin in the' house to eat but salt
. andtaters f or a week, s Come in and
see for yourself ."; ; I was that hungry
that salt and 'latere sounded good to
me. and I went in, found some green
tinted boiled potatoes tho size of mar
blea. and some coarse fish . salt and
made a meal. I asked her if she, had
any horse feed, h' !
"Mister," she declared, ""we haint
got no critter on this place, . and ' no
money to hire no plowin' done. My
datter Sofrony and - one of' her gals
sorter drug the plow " acrost the
ground theirselvfs and planted a little
corn, hut bit's been so tarnation dry
, that everything's burnt u,p and we're
jis about on starvation."1 - Soon So
frony and her five children came
. skipping over the hot rocks in their
bare feet, every one of them chewing
tobacco!! I wondered how they' could
buy the nasty weed when they had no
money for food, and said so, and one
ot the girls jerked her thumb over her
shoulder and pointed to a little dried
ifp patch of tobacco behind , the barn
Not one of the whole crowd could
read or, write, and I found invariably
that where the use of tobacco was be
gun "so ' early ' (some" of 'theiri were
chewing at three years old) it seemed
impossible fotHhenj to-'learu. , Tobacl
co surely dwarfs the mind of children.
I heard a nice looking girl say to her1
father op in the Cumberlands; "Pap-
py.'iiramme'a chaw o' tobacker.'
And the mother complained that the
girl was never able to learn any
thing at school. Well, the old lady
soon got her pension, and I hope she
was able to feed her brood on some
thing else besides "salt and 'tatersJ
The most j prosperous portion of
Tennessee is in the middle portioa, in
such counties as Davidson, Ruther
ford, Maury, Williamson, Wilson,
Sumner, Bedford, and there is a good,
sound citizenship that is good to
meet. Many a fine meal of flaky bis
cuits, rich milk and flour gravy and
savory meats,'' to say nothing of good
vegetables, I have eaten at their ta
bles, and many a pleasant talk at
their fire-sides have I enjoyed. An
agent of the government was almost
always treated with respect, but some
were suspicious, and wanted to know
my name and business.' "I seed you
wus a drivin' a strange boss," they
would say, up in the mountains, "and
I jiflt wanted to know who you wuz."
I once had 'the claim of a negro
woman whose father had died in the
civil war. She would get about $1400
of pension if Bhe could prove that she
was the soldier's child, she being v al
lowed so much every year from the
time of his death till she was sixteen
years old. I found an old white ( lady
who used to own the negroes before
the war, and she knew the woman
well. She told enough about them to
prove the claim, but when I went to
take her Bworn statement she balked.
"0, no!" she snarled; "I'm not going
to help those lazy niggers get a pen
sion and not one of 'em will do me a
hand's turn without pay. Me help
that black hussy set up in her parlor
and draw a big pension while I have
to go out and carry in my own wood
and water! Not much," In vain I
explained to her that I was sent there
to settle the case, and if I did not get
her testimony another man would be
sent to get it, and that she must tes
tify or be taken to Nashville under
subpoena by the United States mar
shall, and that she would be Bent to
jail if she finally refused to testify.
"Your nasty, stinkin' old govern
ment wouldn't want nothin' better
than to send a respectable white wom
an to jail for a nasty old nigger pen
sion. Ah bah!" - (Her scorn was su
preme) "You Yankees think you can
come down here and . rub our , noses
in the dirt, eh? Well, ye can't do it,
d'ye hear me?" "Why madam," I
said in a soothing voice, 'Tm' no
Yankee; I was born in western Tenn
essee, and " "Well the Lord help
my life!" The woman nearly fainted
but finally she recovered her breath,,
and holding up her bands in horror
be went on: "Of allN the low-down,
triflin , hateful things in the world, a
home-made Yankee, is the worst!
Don't talk to me a Tennessea Yan
kee!" Well, to make a short story
of it, her husband came along, and, as
I always found the men easier t6 un
derstand such things than the women,
she cooled down, and I had one of the
best dinners that I ever saw or beard
of, and they felt insulted when I of
fered pay. ' Give it to them,; dear
nigger friends of yours!" was her fi
nal fling at me. But she gave her
affidavit, and the negro woman got
her pension. And instead of throw
ing the money away, - she bought a
neat little home in Nashville and gave
her husband, who was a drayman, a
good team of mules.
One old negro widow who lived in
a hut on the edge of a' corn-field in
Rutherford county, drew $50J first
payment of pension, and instead of
laying it up for the day of rheumatics
and rain) she bought a splendid horse
nad buggy, and went sailing up and
down the road for four blissful day,
throwing the dust in the' eyes of Jess
fortunate niggers,' . when she didn't
have even a stable to pat the horse in.
She drove against a stump, smashed
the buggy and crippled the horse, so
that she was soon as poor as ever. I
was taking the testimony of of an old
colored mammy id Trousdale dounty,
and asked her what sort of a man the
soldier was. "A pow'f ul bad mayn,
sah a auful bad mayn 1" "What was
the matter with him?" ' "He was one
ob dese heah Romancin' kind of men.
mistah, went Romancing around at
nights; Unk nnh he wouldn't do
at a-l-I sabr Another old negro sol
emnly swore that after the soldier'i
wiie naa aiea ne naa remained a
widdower 'twill he married agin."
Tery likely. An old black widow in
Nashville, when asked how many hus
bands she had had, began calling them
oft on her fingers: "Dar wus Jake;
dar wuz Bill; dar wus Joe; dar wuz
Chris, and dar wuz Rufos dem's da
only men dat ever had comminion ov
er me sah. The word dominion'
was what she tried to say. The old
time darkies generally told the trnth;
I could not always say that about the
younger ones.
Lindsay S. Peekins.
'DARK HORSE' MAY'
WIN G. 0. P. RACE
REPUBLICAN LEADERS LOOK FOR
PRACTICAL BUSINESS MAN
TO HEAD TICKET.
COLEMAN DU PONT NAMED
AS LIKELY CANDIDATE
Delaware Man Haa Splendid Reputa
. tion at a Self-Made Leader In
t.' Constructive Buslnesa. ,
With the Republican convention on
ly a scant twelve weeks away, the
moat popular topic of conversation In
political circles these days concerns
the O, 0. P.'s choice of a candidate
to run against. Wilson. . , . .
The Republicans will probably go
back to old principles and look for a
candidate who will command the sup
port of the same army ot voters who
elected McKinley, when a wave of
patriotic common sense swept the
country, and business men by . the
hundreds of thousands marched the
streets demanding a practical govern
ment It 18 interesting to note that
the name of General Coleman du Pont,
of Delaware, has been repeatedly men
tioned recently as the man eminently
Qualified for the nomination. To those
who look upon the Kovnmisent as
a big business concern demanding
the supervision of a trained business
man, the name of General du Pont car
ries a strong appeal, for Jthere Is no
man more qualified to handle the big
problems of today than this same self
made leader in constructive business.
Moreover, both the public and private
record of General du Pont will stand
up well under the searchlight of po
litical opposition.
GENERAL COLEMAN DU PONT.
Coleman du Pont was born in Ken
tucky and started his working life in
the mines of the Blue Grass State. He
stands today as one of the few suc
cessful men who have . acquired their
positions by methods that will stand
scrutiny. He haa been a producer
not a stock jobber. . He has never an
tagonized any class of people. Capital
and Labor alike admire him.
Without self-advertisement he does
more charity than do most men. He is
an ardent advocate of good roads and
believes that a really perfect system
of highways will enhance the farmer's
Income and reduce the cost of living
to the cities. He has built roads and
given them to his state, always with a
sound business scheme to perpetuate
them and save them - from being a
burden to the taxpayers. -,
He comes from a family onore Amer
lean than most a family Identified
with the building of the nation since
the Revolution. His grandfather was
Thomas Jefferson's most valued per
sonal friend, and advisor In the time
of great need during the dark days
of the Republic. .. , :
The great Powder , Company with
which he was formerly identified haa
supplied our government with all its
powder at a pried always named by
our government officials themselves
and never by the company.
' Because of his great executive abil
ity and high standing in the business
world, some of the shrewdest po
litical minds in the country consider
him as being one' of the most likely
"dark horses" for the Republican
nomination. They point to the fact
that his success rn life would elimin
ate any need for a friendly Colonel
House, or any other financial Influence
standing ever behind the presidential
chair. Nor would he be compelled to
take orders from any man or group of
men.
Another factor that the supporters of
General du Pont are pointing to la his
knowledge ot military affairs. For
sixteen years he has been identified
with the soldiery ot his state and la
thoroughly alive to the necessity tor
preparedness. He has also had
practical training in politics, ' ha v.
ing been a delegate to a number ot
State and National conventions, and
serving as a member of the Republican
National committee for many years, i
It ia the splendid business training
of General du Pont that la pointing
the way tor him to the nom
ination. For It ia conceded on all
sides that the biggest problems of this
country at the close of the European
war will be business problems, and
there are tew men among those men
tioned, who have had hla experience
in coping with such huge problems.
As a manager ot constructive busi
ness and as a reorganicer, Coleman
du Font stands In a class by himself.
Uses and: Abuses of .Fertilizers
By Prof. R. J. H. De Loach, Director of Georgia Experiment Station.
2. INTELLIGENT USE OF FERTILIZERS IN GERMANY.
' ' The 8econd of a Series of Six Arthjlea."
All state institutions have fostered the fertilizer trade since its Origin
in the early fifties. State organizations of all kinds have taken a lively
part in the building up of the trade, and in later years the states have taken
it for granted that the trade is profitable to farmers and merchants alike,
and have therefore framed laws to regulate its manufacture and sale. In
every state where fertilizer is sold in appreciable quantities laws have been
passed exacting certain requirements
grades, etc. Besides the trade,
the consumer and offer for sale inferior material under the name of fer
tilizers. ' We may say without tear of successful contradiction that the
states themselves are largely responsible for the -rise and volume of the
fertilizer trade.-
It haa long been recognized that
lines of science. This is perhaps true
early years. Germany discovered
crops increased the yields immensely, atfd gave time and study to the under
lying causes, and has suggested to the other parts ot the world many valu
able lessons on her findings. Von Liebig, through his studies and lec
tures on modern agriculture, has made known much of the work of Germany
in the early history of the use of commercial fertilizers. Lleblg says that
Kuhlman, a German agricultural scientist, applied salammoniac to a meadow
in the years 1845 ahd 1846, and found that on a hectare (2ft acres) he gath
ered 8,140 pounds of hay more than on the same kind of meadow where he
did not use the salammoniac, ' He
pounds ot salammoniac to the acre.
In commenting upon this Von Lleblg has the following to say: "It la
quite certain, that in the action of the guano, which produced the crop next
highest after the Chill saltpeter, an unmistakable part was played by the
ammonia contained In It. On the other- hand, however, the experiments
with carbonate and nitrate of ammonia show that a quantity of ammonia,
or nitrogen, equivalent to that in 20 pounds of guano and employed under
the same conditions, was almost without effect."
Fertilizer Experiments In Germany.
A little further along he says: "The most recent observations on the
comportment of the soil towards the food of plants show how slight is the
knowledge we possess of their mode of nourishment, and of the part which
the soil, by its physical condition, plays in it The comportment of the
salts of ammonia, of chloride of sodium, and of nitrate of soda, towards
the earthly phosphates in the soil, may perhaps assist us in throwing
some light on their action, or one of their actions, on the growth of plants."
This statement was made because it was always found that when common
salt was added to certain mineral manures, greater yield was obtained,
and Von Lleblg came to the conclusion that this was due to the -relation of
this added material to the liberation of potash in the soils. .
Only- a short time after the war between the states the German pot
ash beds were discovered and by rapid leaps and bounds fys material gained
in favor with planters as- well as experimenters. The necessity for find
ing a combination to liberate the potash in the soils was now removed
and thorough satisfaction-was found In the use of the nitrate of soda and
the potash salts, and here the industry stood for a long time. Lleblg does
claim, however, that Tribasic phosphate of lime crept Into the formula and
was found efficient. This fact is very significant and happened to be dis
covered by a constant study of the use of the nitrate ot soda and potash
salts. Llebig thought that these two plant food materials had the power
of dissolving phosphoric acid in the form of earthly phosphates, and these
in turn added greatly to the yield of farm crops. V
Germany's Crop Yields Greater Than Other Nations.
We have here many hints of what afterwards really developed to be
facts namely that the three great elements of plant food that should be
applied to the soil for good crop yields are phosphoric acid, ammonia and
potash. For many years these three elements have been the essential
elements of plant food In a fertilizer formula. -
Today Germany applies more mineral salts per acre to her crops than
any other nation in the world, and partly as a consequence gets higher
yields of farm crops than any other nation. It is significant that these
two facts are so closely related,, but it must be remembered that Germany
has learned the lesson of good,, tillage deep plowing, the proper use ot
vegetable matter in the soil,, and the dangerous practice of continuous
cropping with any single crop. It is also to be remembered that the lands
on which the most money can be cleared without any kinds of fertilisers
are the lands that will give greatest profits with, fertilisers.
MENS
7E have a stock
v in M en s
and Summer.
weaves in allrvool fabrics, Palm: Beach
and ummMbl" cloth. All well tail
ored, and bettet values for the' price
than you can get in any city, and if we
cannot fit you out
want' a suit made
measure, we have
swatches from the best tailoring house
in the United States. We . guarantee
to fit and please. See us before U buy
SELMER MERCANTILE CO.
' . Mules for Sale.
I have for sale at my place in
Leapwood, Tenn., fifteen good young
mules, some broke to work, all gentle.
Will sell reasonable for cash or good
notes. - R. H. Burton.
Row's This?
Wa offer On Hundred Dollar Re
ward for any case of Catarrh that can
not be cured by Hall's Catarrh Cure.
Hall's Catarrh Cure has been taken
by catarrh auffereri (or the paat
thlrty-flve years, and has become
known aa the most reliable remedy (or
Catarrh. Hall's Catarrh Cure acta thru
the Blood on the Mucous surfaces, ex-
Selling- the Poison from the Blood and
eallna; the diseased portions.
After yon have taken Hall's Catarrh
Cure for a short time you will see a
greet Improvement In your general
health. Start taklnc Hall's Catarrh
Cure at onoe and get rid of catarrh.
Send for testimonials, free.
P. J. CHENEY CO.. Toledo, Ohio.
Sold by all Druggists. 75c.
of the manufacturer, aa to analyses,
over-ambitious, might forget its obligation to
Germany leads the world in many
in regard to the use of fertilizers In
that mineral salts applied to growing
secured this result by using about 200
of splendid values
S u i t s for Spring
Serges and" fancy
of stock, or if you
to your individual
yard and a half
Money fo Loan
on farm lands in McNairy county. We
wili secure loins for money for five
years' time secured by first mortgage
on farm lands in McNairy county in
axounts of $1,000 and up. Loans are
make on 40 per cent valuation of land.
W D. and 0. C. Hagy, Selraer, Tenn.
Ten Per Cent Reduction
For the purpose of reducing the
stock on hand, from this date a reduc
tion of ten per cent on the stock of
saddles, harness and all leather goods
in the shop of the late W. H. Thomp
SUITS
son, will be made. Sold only for cash.
Helen Thompson.
) IIS THE BASEMENT STORE AT
we offer
pairs of
MEN'S $2,00 and S2.50
Corduroy
at 98c
at regular, wholesale, are fully $18
and $24 the dozen.
I
i
we also
about
1,000 pairs of Men's Casimere and
Worsted Pants at $2.45 and $1.45 ,
. worth' double. It is the greatest
Pant Sale we have had in 10 years
Ghas.
Corinth, Agists.
M JACK KERBY.
KERBY fc
TOBULAn WELL DRILLERS
" V t-AND
-rn waier systems
ELECTRIC LIGHT PUNTS FOR PRIVATE HOMES
Fairbanks-Lforse and Southern -Gasoline
and Coal . Oil Engines' ,
WE GIVE Y OU .
PHONE 26r BETHEL
j gag j cag j easi LKtsij ccaij
NASHVILLE
Special
Subscription
NOT GOOD AFTER JUNE I, 1916
$1.00 pays for 5 months' subscription.
$2.00 pays for 10 month's subscription.
$3.00 pays for 15 months' subscription.
This does not apply in towns
at lUc a week- 1 his oner is only good in Tennessee, North Al
abama and Southern. Kentucky. All other, points the subscrip
tion price is 50c a month or $5.00 a year. .
In order to get this special offer you must cut out this ad
vertisement and send it with your remmittance. ?
1,000 .
1
Pants
the pair
offer
H. Gish
,.j 1'
- EARL INGRAM;
DEALERS 4U
i
A SQUARE : DEAL
SPRINGS, TENNESSEE
kti j trj tgasfj cas tW jjZig
BANNER'S
Offer
where the paper is delivered
nr.
