mi not on
FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1916.
NO 10
VOL. 43
II
Jfaf
fftntef.
M. R. &B.T. SEEKS TO
RAISE PASSENGER RATES
If Commission Will
Will Find Present
for Services
A message from Jefferson City, un
der date of March 18th, conveys the
information that the State Public Ser
vice Commission has fixed March 28
ag the date for hearing the case of
the Mississippi River & Bonne Terrc
Railroad, the efflcials of this road hav
ing made claims that they could not
earn interest on the money invested
by operating this road under the
present statutory rates. When such
application waB made the commission
ordered a valuation of the physical
property concerned, and the hearing
will be on the correctness of the fig
ures to which the company takes ex
ception. The Times is most heartily in fa
Tor of an equitable railroad rate, bas
ed on the quality of the service ren
dered to the traveling public. In fact
there is, we believe, no just argument
that could possibly be urged against
such a position. Where service is
actually rendered the traveling pub
lic we do not believe that any bene
ficiaries of such service would want to
evade payment for same. But if the
M. R. & B. T. Railroad officials have
any possible reason to suggest why
they should be permitted to increase
the passenger rate for the service they
force on their patrons, then we would
be delighted to hear on what grounds
such claims are based.
Before deciding this case, the Com
missioners should take a ride out as
!far as Flat River over this road, not
in a private car, but just as other
passengers are forced to do there
by acquiring a personal knowledge of
the service for which this railroad
company is attempting to add addi
tional tariff. If the Commissioners
will make the suggested trip, then we
have no doubt that their sense of
right and justice will cause them to
make the right decision on this appli
cation. We believe such a journey
will necessarily put them "up against"
some of the inconveniences that those
who must travel over that road are
daily forced to endure. Then if they
can honestly declare that the M. R. &
B. T. railroad is giving better service
Killed Fighting
For the Allies
Richard J. Howard, son of Mrs.
Edith P. Howard of St. Louis, was
recently killed somewhere in France
while fighting for the Allies, confirm
ation of whose death reached St.
Louis this week. Young Howard and
his mother, who is a friend of the
Gardners here, were in Farmington
some weeks during the summer of
1914, and he will be remembered by
a number of our young people as a
rather gay and dashing young man.
Though only about 25 years old,
he has had some fast and sad ex
perience. In 1913 he came into a
patrimony of $65,000 and started out
to 6ee the world. He went to Lon
don and there met and fell in love
with a music hall girl, Dorothy Levy,
ivtiose stage name was Dorothy Dale,
and married her. He spent the most
of his patrimony in extravagant liv
ing and then brought her home with
him. His family refused to receive
her, and his resources being about
exhausted, he secured apartments in
a St. Louis hotel and tried to do his
duty by her. He had to retrench, but
this did not suit her; she wanted
.gaiety and excitement, and so they
quarrelled and separated. He then
brought suit for divorce and a decree
was granted him. It was pending
this suit that young Howard was a
sojourner in Farmington.
He had been a Lieutenant in the
First Regiment Missouri National
Guards, and returning to London af
ter his divorce the military life call
ed to him and he volunteered his ser
vices to the Allies. He was assigned
as a Lieutenant to the "Black Watch"
Regiment of Scotch Infantry.
fle was a scion of one of the weal
thy families of St. Louis, being a
grandson of the late Richard Howard
o the Evans & Howard Fire Brick
Company. Whatever his mistakes of
Investigate They
Rate Too High
Rendered
than they are getting paid for at
present, we will try and suppress our
indignation.
The Times editor has made a num
ber of trips over the above suggested
route during the past few months,
and they have served to impress us
deeply with the abundant lack of con
veniences that are common on most
other railroads. It is not uncommon
for these trains to run many miles
with the aisles crowded with passen
gers unable to get seats; very often
women and children are forced into
the smoker in order to get seats, there
to be regaled with uncouth and ob
scene language; to be besmirched and
begrimed with tobacco chewing and
smoking, and compelled to undergo
other hardships not at all in keeping
with polite society. Few travel that
route who are not filled with thanks
giving at their journey's end. To all
such the very thought that this com
pany is now seeking an opportunity
to raise the passenger rate for such
service, appears to be an attempted
hold-up, pure and simple. It is equal
to the proverbial "slow train through
Arkansas," with additional hardships
thrown in.
Then, their contention that under
the present 2 cent rate, it is impossi
ble to earn interest on the money in
vested, would appear to indicate that a
change in management would be prof
itable to the stockholders, as we have
understood that this road was the
best paying property of any short
railroad in the State, in passenger
traffic. Under its old management,
before the present 2 cent rate went in
to effect, the service on these trains
was perhaps as good as was to be
found on any railroad within the
State, and then they did not charge
the maximum rate permitted by law.
We trust the Commissioners will
make a thorough investigation of all
the issues involved in this case be
fore rendering their verdict. If this
is done, we believe their opinion will
be the M. R. & B. T. railroad is be
ing over-paid, at 2 cents per mile
passenger rate, for the services ren
dered. youth, which were wild and thought
less rather than vicious, there is
much sympathy and regret over his
broken life and untimely though he
roic death.
BASKET BALL.
Farmington broke even in their
double header last Saturday night
against Doe Run. The Eighth grade
boys played first and won 18 to 14.
The game was pretty roughly played
and many fouls were called. The
Farmington boys excelled in team
work and passing. The boys all
played their best, but the work of
Farmington's two guards, Simms and
Ferguson, and of "Big Schramm" at
forward, was excellent.
The High School game was a good
one, the final score of 48-20 against
us notwithstanding. Doe Run has
a good bunch of players, who play
the intercollegiate game in its rough
est fashion, and they won by it.
Farmington did the best they knew
and the first half ended in a tie score.
But during the second half Doe Run
clearly outplayed our boys and piled
up a large score.
Farmington plays Desloge a dou
ble header next Saturday night at
Farmington.
LICENSED TO MARRY
March 1G, George B. Barron and
Alice B. Stegman of DeSoto.
18th, John C. Ring of Leadwood
and Nora Belle Newkirk of Elvins.
20th, Donald F. Porter and Ona
Crawford of Elvins.
20th, T. F. Francis and Neacy
Francis of Mill Creek, Madison coun
ty. 21st, Roy V. Hanchett of Grand
Island, Nebr., and Alma O'Bannon of
Fredericktown.
22nd, Tony Smith of Patton and
Bertha Salyer of Marquand.
20th, S. G. Longgrear and Nell
Stuttaers of Desloge.
"Death to Mosquitoes"
Should Be Your Slogan
The season of the year is now at
hand when warfare should be declared,
in this city and community, against
the mosquito. No quarter should be
extended the enemy, but it must be a
battle of annihilation of that heart
less and deadly little pest, whose pow
er for evil is gigantic if permitted to
go practically unmolested, except for
an occasional swat. The mosquito is
a wily little criminal, an expert dodg
er, and can usually evade the "swat
er." There is but one effectual way to
fight the mosquito, and that is to
fight him in his lair if he is per
mitted to have a lair which we are
sorry to say he does have in Farming
ton. So long as there are cess-pools
in Farmington, just so long must such
incubators for mosquitoes be closely
guarded against and made proof
against breeding such vermin. A lib
eral covering of kerosene over all
cess pools and other breeding places
for mosquitoes in the community is
the best preventive against their
coming out.
The Times believes it would be wise
A Brutal Attack
While quietly munching some food
the other evening, in the quietude of
our home and the domesticity of our
family, we were suddenly aroused and
made alert by a buzzing sound in our
light ear, which for the moment filled
us with fear that a death-dealing air
craft was making our way, and at the
same instant we felt a sharp instru
ment inserted into our right temple.
We then realized that instant action
was necessary if we were to be grab
bed from impending danger. Making
an upward stroke with "our good
right", we landed on the affected
part with a staggering force. When
we regained consciousness, we seemed
to have been wafted from the scene
of strife, as there was in sight no in
dication of carnage.
Bui. we have had it drilled into us
not to act hastily, and for the next
several minutes we pursued a policy
of "watchful waiting." As the enemy
failed to make another appearance
we decided that he may have been
caught between the upper and nether
stone that had "put us out," and per
haps fatally wounded, or at least was
frightened away by the terrific crash.
But whatever the cause of his disap
pearance may be, it appears to us as
most dastardly and bloodthirsty that
we could not have been permitted to
eat of the little food that had fortun
ately been spread before us, without
being attacked in such a villianous
fashion. The remainder of our fam
ily said it was a mosquito. But if it
was, Mr. Mosquito must have been
much overgrown, to have been able to
carry a sword. We would be willing
to swear that he was armed. In fact,
we are not certain that we did not
swear. If the mosquitoes in this vi
cinity are so belligerant, then the all
important thing to do is to meet them
immediately with an opposing army,
and let it be a battle to the death.
There will be no need of shot nor
shrapnel with this enemy. A liberal
sprinkling of kerosene over their
headquarters will prove far more ef
fective. But such battle must be
waged soon if it is to prove most ef
fective. MILLIONAIRES IN PROSPECT
B. H. Marbuiy and J. C. Watson
left Monday for Miami, Okla., mine
ral fields to take a first-hand look at
some lead and jack prospects there
in which they are interested. Late
reports indicate that their holdings
are developing great abundance of
the richest kind of mineral, all of
which The Times hopes is true.
We understand several other local
parties are interested in this mining
venture with Messrs. Marbury and
Watson, and indications appear ex
cellent for another bunch of capital
ists being developed here, which wil.
create an increased demand for "red
devils" that can "burn up the earth,"
as these boys enjoy "going some."
This weather is regular for March
sunshine, shadows, clouds, rain, hail
snow, sleet, wind and dust may b
handed out in a aingle twenty-fou'
hours. We feel thankful that March
is nearly gone.
if the City Council would make it
compulsory on all owners of cess
pools to give them a liberal spraying
with kerosene and at once. Further
delay In this matter will permit these
disease distributors such headway that
they will be practically impossible to
suppress. Some of them have already
taken wing, and are making them
selves most unpleasantly felt. If you
do not adopt means to get the mo
squito now, he will most surely "get
you" later. "A stitch in time" will
most certainly "save nine" in this in
stance. Some have already given their
cess po'ih n coating of oil, but their
efforts for the public good will be in
vain unless such measure is unani
mously adopted. Therefore we feel
that the City Council should 3co to it
'.hat such an order is vigorously en
lorced in this city. Such action may
mean the saving of many lives before
t.e coming summer is over. It will
certainly mean, in a very large meas
ure, the safeguarding of the er.t're
citizenship.
But if such safeguarding is to ac
complish its greatest good, it must
be dofc AT ONCE.
Four Score Three
Dr. Reuben Fugate attained the
eighty-third anniversary of his birth
day last Monday, March 20, 1916.
The Doctor is the Senior Elder of the
Farmington Christian Church, and the
Ladies" Aid of that church conceived
the happy idea of surprising him and
celebrating the occasion. They got
up a splendid dinner and invited all the
officers of the church to meet at the
Doctor's home at noon and help him
enjoy it. Of course his good wife
was in the conspiracy, and the Doctor,
who has been on the invalid list the
past winter, sittir.g in his rest chair
in the family room, didn't imagine
ithe preparation that was going on
with the assistance of some of the
good women in the kitchen and din
ing room a short time before the sur
prise was sprung. The first the Doc
tor knew of it was a few minutes be
fore twelve o'clock, when the officers
of the church in a body marched into
the room and began to congratulate
him and wish him "many happy re
turns." His face brightened up and
a joyous smile wreathed his pleasant
face.
Two of the Church Board, J. H.
Tetlcy and J. E. Klein, were unavoid
ably absent, but there were present
the following: the pastor, Rev. J. M
Bailey, T. D. Fisher, W. N. Fleming
Judge J. S. Clay, Dr. O. A. Smith,
G. N. Baker, J. W. McCarthy, J. W.
Buck, Barry Phillips, John Swink,
Frank Coffman and J. J. Roberts
While congratulations and good wish
es were still passing, the ladies ap
peared and announced that the festal
board was spread. The men were
conducted into the dining room and
seated about the table only men;
the good ladies did the serving.
It was a spread worthy the gods,
and the guests all proved themselves
good feeders their appetites paying
glowing compliments to the cooks
In the midst of the feasting, one good
brother lifted his eyes from his plate
long enough to look around the board,
and then casually observed, "there are
just thirteen at the table." Did the
remark throw a damper over the
company? Not on your life it was
not their superstitious day, and no
one volunteered to vacate to break the
tabooded number. The jocund word
went round, the cmiling faces grew
hvifhter, the feasting slackened not,
and
"Not a wave of trouble rolled
Across their peaceful breasts."
It was certainly an enjoyable oc
casion, and there was a sincere re
sponse in the heart of everyone pres
ent when, just before leaving, Rev.
Mr. Bailey expressed the high esteem
and love in which Dr. Fugate is held
by all the church and especially the
board of which he is an honored
member, and prayed that he might
be spared to bless them with his pres
ence many more seasons of joy and
refreshing.
Dr. Fugate has had a pretty hard
winter of it, having been confined to
his bed with grip and other ailments
-i good deal of the time, but we are
lad to say is now "on the mend" and
able to take a "constitutional" every
'ay. His many friend's wish him
speedy recovery to his wonted self.
ANOTHER CHAPTER
ON ASSESSED VALUES
Where the County
Revenue to Remedy Conditions
Pointed Out by Grand Jury
The Grand Jury at the close of the
February term of our Circuit Court
turned in a report to that tribunal
which was somewhat startling. It
was published and naturally created
comment, a lifting of the eyebrows in
wonder that such things can be. It
mentioned sanitary conditions at the
County Jail that ought to be remedied
without question; suggested needed
improvements at the County Infirm
ary that brook no delay, and pointed
out in no uncertain way the inade
quacy of the Court House to meet
the requirements of our rich and rap-
idly growing county.
These are all matters that deserve four times as much tax on your
prompt attention and remedying, and wealth as the Doe Run Lead Com
if remedied in the proper way, which pany does?
is always the most economical, You will notice that while the Doe
they would cost some thousands of Run Lead Company owns $14,509,
dollars. Our County Court has not 283.33 in lands and equipment, and
shown itself niggardly when it comes the St. Joseph Company owns eon
to necessary and legitimate improve- siderably less in lands and equipment
ments, but like the Israelites in Egypt, I than the Doe Run, in exact figures in
they cant "make brick without straw". ' this county, $9,083,679.65, the St. Jo-
We are satisfied the money to do this ,
work is not in the county revenue
fund, so how would the Court go
about accomplishing it? Exceed the
revenue ?
What a question to ask in a rich,
populous county like St. Francois, that
ought to have more revenue and would
have more if certain rich corporation
holdings were assessed at the same
ratio as that of private individuals.
If this were done, the tax rate for
county revenue could even be lowered
and then give the county an abund
ance of revenue and to spare for such
conditions as the Grand Jury report
so graphically describes. Why has
this not been done? Why has it not
been done long ago? Everybody who
is not interested in these corporations
financially or by ties of salaried pref
erment, recognize the justice of exact
ing the samo ratio of taxation from
them that is exacted of other taxpay
ers. At the risk of again offending the
rich and all but arrogant lead com
panies of this county we are going to
repeat some facts. The St. Joseph Lead
Company has land holdings in this
county, the actual value of which its
official statement to its stockholders
places at $6,732,542.16, and its equip
ment or improvements on these lands
it places at $4,064,509.33, a tctal ac
tual value of $10,807,051.49. Of this its
official figures claim that $1,723,371.
84 is at Herculaneum, in Jefferson
county. That leaves $9,083,679.65 in
St. Francois county. Now the as
sessed valuation of these lands and
equipments is only $1,452,830, or in
rough figures about 20 per cent of
their value the value placed upon
the lands and equipment alone by
the company's own auditors while
you, Mr. Farmer, are assessed at
about 40 per cent, just twice as much,
on your lands and houses. There is
no guess work about these figures
and valuation they are the company's
own. Do you think you ought to pay
twice as much tax in proportion to
your wealth as this company does?
The St. Joseph Lead Company by
sworn statement fixes the value of its
property at Herculaneum at $1,723,
371.84. On this it paid last year on
ly $149 in State taxes, which indicates
that it was assessed on its property
in Jefferson county nbout $83,000, or
less than 7 per cent of its actual val
ue. In St. Louis they claim to be pay
ing taxes on an assessment of about
90 per cent. No wonder the taxpay
ers of that city are complaining about
paying a disproportionate share of
State taxes. If this St. Joseph Lead
Another Nice Batch
been
The following names have
added to The Times subscription list
the past week, all of whom have vol
intarily come in or sent their names,
wing to the information that has
eached them that this is now actu-
illy a NEWSPAPER, worthy of their
support: Oscar L Haile and B. I.
Morris of Farmington, R. J. Clay of
leadwood W. P "'Uington of Poplar
Court Might Raise
Company property were in St. Louis
instead of Herculaneum, the State
tax on it would be in the neighbor
hood of $1,800 instead of $149.
Let us take up the Doe Run Lead
Company. It owns, according to its
estimated official figures, $11,771,802,
91 in lands in St. Francois county,
and $2,737,480.42 in equipment or im
provementa total of $14,509,283.33.
It is assessed for taxing purposes at
$1,004,825, or less than 9 per cent of
the value which the company places.
upon it, while you, Mr. Farmer, are
assessed at 40 per cent on your farm
land and improvements. Do you see
any reason why you should be paying
seph is assessed at $448,005 move than
the Doe Run. This may be because
the St. Joseph owns other assets
which, with its lands and equipment,
amounted at the close of the calendar
year December 31, 1914, to $22,
776,728.53, while the Doe Run's asests
over and above its lands and equip
ment were only $775,517.16. But if
these extra assets were included in tho
assessed valuation of the St. Joseph,
then that company was assessed
only about 9 pet nnt at the value
which it places upon its capital wealth,
about the same as that of the Doe
Run, and oniy one-iourtn as mucn as
you are assessed, Mr.-Farmer.
Whether there is any disparity in
the assessment of the Federal and the
National Lead Companies, we cannot
say as we haven't any balance sheets
or statements of theirs to their stock
holders showing the value of their
holdings, and can therefore make no
comparisons, much as we would like
to do so. We want to deal with ac
tual values now and not guess work.
But the question o, taxation does
not end here. Bonne Terre and Flat
River are both prosperous towns, with
large populations, doing a driving,
thriving business. The lands on
which these two most populous towns,
of the county are built belong to the
lead companies. The surface lots of
these towns are leased to the people
for residences and business houses,
and not a few handsome residences
and commodious business blocks have
been erected on them. If a man in
Farmington owns a lot and erects a
$5,000 residence or a $10,000 business
block on it, he is assessed and pays
taxes on 40 per cent of its value.
Does the man who builds on the com
panies' leased lots in Flat River and
Bonne Terre have to pay taxes on it?
He does not. It is on the company's
leased land, and that land is included
in the company's assessed valuation.
The Assessor can't assess any of the
buildings separate from the lots on
which they stand, so a man may own
a $10,000 business block on one of
these leased lots and not pay a cent
tax on it. Thus, while the company
is assessed at 9 to 20 per cent on its
wealth, you, Mr. Farmer, are assessed
at 40 per cent, and the company stands
as a shield between the people who
build on its leased lots and the As
sessor. Otherwise they would be pay
ing taxes on their residences and
store houses, the same as farmers and
people living in other towns pay on
their houses, and thus help the latter
to bear the cost of our State and
county governments.
S'
Bluff, Hon. Edw. Robb of Perryville,
C. Beard of Mine La Motto, Jesse
E. Keay of Elvins, J. H. Tullock of
Bismarck, John Unger of Morristown.
The following have renewed their
subscriptions: David Barton, F. A.
Gillespie, and Mrs. S. J. Elgin of
Farmington; T. J. Merryman and
Francis Haynes of Doe Run, C I. Gar
rett of Bismarck, C. J. Kocher of
Ponca, W. J. Hobbs of Bonne Terre,
Marion Jarrells of Esther, Chas.
Keith of Knob Lick, Miss Cynthia
Gruner of Doe Run.
