THE ' BARRE.. DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. a
UAH HE, VKHMOXT, FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 191(5.
PRICK, OXK CKXT.
4
NO ACTIVITY
DURING NIGHT
WESTOFMEUSE
ONLY TWO VOTES
AGAINST HAY BILL
Was No Change in the
Situation of the Contend
ing Armies Before Verdun
As It Passed House It Will Provide (or
Army Peace Strength of 140,000
Men Measure Now Goes
to Senate
' Washington, D. C, March 24-Thu Hay
army increase bill, providing for a regu
lar armv neaee strength of 1UUKM) light-
Paris War Office Announced i nig men instead of the present ioo,mo,
i t . . i i a i . i
, . ... mL J'Hxaeu me nouse late ycsn'ruity uy u
This Afternoon 1 n e r e j vote of 402 to n goes to the senate
for immediate consideration virtually as
drafted by the House committee.
The negative votes were cant by rep
resentative Ilritten, Republican, of Illi
nois, nnd London, Socialist, of New York.
Itritten opposed tlie bill because he fa
vored a still further Increase in the army,
and London because' ho favored no in
crease. ;
The bill ib the first of the great na
tional preparedness measures urged by
President Wilson to pass cither House,
although various related measures have
been approved. It was finally adopted
only after Representative Kahn, ranking
Republican member of tlie military com
mittee, had again met defent, this time
213 to 191, in his effort to increase the
authorized strength of the regulars to
220,000.
During the debate, Chairman Hay of
the committee which drew the bill, re
ferred to it as "the president's own bill."
It wag explained at the White House,
however, that while" the president ap
proved thu ground plan of the measure,
he was not committed to its details. The
conference on the Senate and House plans
to come after the Senate acts Is expected
by administration officials to produce a
bill which will have the president's full
support. The measure went to the Sen
ate last night and the way has been
cleared ,for consideration of it to begin
here next Monday.
BIG GUNS ROARED
RARELY EAST OF RIVER
There Has Come a Lull in
the Operations of the Ger-
- mans in Their Efforts to
Break Down the Defenses
1 of the Great French Fortress
BANDIT
THRiCE
ROUTED
ing the story of the lfererra revolt, which
they believed to be true, the dispatch
from (,'eneral Ietclur, who is on the
ground, Is taken by tlie official, here as
continuing the statements of Curruiua
ollicials that no such revolt had occurred.
Later the following telegram was re
ceived from Funafuti: "(ieueral llerrer
in a telegram to (ieiie.ral Cavira strong
ly denies he lias gone over to Villa. (Jeu-
cral liittierrcs, governor ut Chiliuamiii, In
a letter to Cavira also strongly denies
that 1 Ierm i a has gonu over to Villa,''
HERERRA REMAINS TRUE
The lull in the infantry fighting in the
Verdun region of France continues. Tlie
artillery, however, is keeping up its ac
tive work. French guns have been en
ergetically cannonading German posi
tions in the Malancourt wood on the
edge of Argonno, northwest of Verdun.
The intention apparently is to break up
the anticipated attempt of the Germans
to debouch from this cover and make
further efforts to advance toward the
main line of the Paris-Verdun railway.
Although the Verdun battle holds the
center of attention, scarcely less interest
Is being aroused by the determined at
tacks of the Russians on tlie German
northern front in the east. Berlin ad
mita no permanent successes for the Pais
sian troops but the I'etrograd state
meats continue to claim that advantages
have been gained at various points, both
to tlie northwest of Dvinsk in the Jacob-
stadt region and near Lake Naxcocz to
the south.
The sinking of two additional neutral
vessels by submarines is reported, the
lost craft being a Norwegian steamer
and a Danish bark.
American Troops Are Said
to Have Particinated in eia at El Paso yesterday dwlaring that
iu jic i armijiaiiu in Ch,wnl jM-m Herprra rmnmmiI11 thu
And Will Fight Villa, According to Gov.
ernor of Chihuahua.
El Paso, Tex., March 24.- -Ignaclo En-
riques, civil governor of the state of Chi
hualiua. sent telegram to Consul Gar-
Took Place at EI Oso,
Near Namiquipa, but Per
shing Has Not Sent Any
Confirmation .
FUNSTON INCLINED
TO BELIEVE REPORT
the Third Battle Which Knn at chihuahua nty stiii was ioy
ai 10 coo nri cuici aim i.ui. iu creui. re
port of his defection to Villa.
Further confirmation that General Luis
Hererra of the Chihuahua gnrrison had
not deserted to Villa, was received by
General Cavira of tha Juarez garrison
yesterday afternoon in a telegram from
General Hererra himself.
The telegram read:
"Your telegram of yesterday received.
Deny in my name emphatically rumors
that the reactionaries have circulated in
San Antonio, Tex., saying I have gono j
j .'Ml- i i I. ... a . ... I
over 10 ilia. n ma contrary, 1 am
ready to fight him as energetically as
possible."
SHACKLETON
COMES BACK
Year and a Half Expedition
to South Pole Is
Concluded
BETHEL CONFERENCE
LEADS TO NEW HOP
RESULTS OF VOYAGE
ARE WITHHELD
WAS TOLD OF MOTHER'S DEATH.
All of the Encounters with
Villa Are Reported to
Have Taken Place in the
Vicinity of Namiquipa, as
the Bandit Is Driven by
Carranza's Troops and
Americans
Great Honor of Discovery
Won for the British
Flag .
That Labor Trouble Will Be Settled in
Short Time Granite Cutters Had
Meeting Scheduled for r
To-day.
Jtcthel, March 24. Supt. W. C. (lif
ford of the Woodbury Granite company
met the committee of the local blanch,
G. C. i. A., yesterday nml talked over the
situation with them, lie left by an alt
ermam train for a few days' absence. A
meeting of the branch to-day may or
may not reach an agreement, but in any
event an otlicial of the branch and mem
ber of the committee stiid last evening
that no agreement is likely to be signed
up for a few days longer. The men have
been idle ince March 1, when the old
agreement expired.
LIQUOR FOUND
ALL OVER HOUSE
GLOOMY AT QTJINCY.
May Be No Break in Deadlock Before
Last of April.
Ouincv. Mass.. March 24. The granite
cutters and the manufacturers are dead-
Sydney, New South Wales, March 21. locked over tho length of time the new
VILLA HELD UP TRAIN.
TWO MORE TRENCHES
TAKEN BY GERMANS
Further Successes About .Haucourt,
Northwest of Verdun, Claimed By
German War Office.
Berlin, via London, March 24. Further
successes have been won by the Germans
in the vicinity of Haucourt, northwest
of v erdun, the army headquarters on
nounccd to-day, two additional trenches
being occupied.
On the Russian front vicious attacks
on the German lines in the northern sec
tor have been continued both northwest
and south of Dvinsk. AH the assaults
broke down, the statement declares.
Paris, March 24. There has been no
"change in the situation around Verdun
since yesterday, according to the war of
fice announcement this forenoon. West
of the Meuse the night was calm. East
of the Meuse there were intermittent
bombardments.
FIRST END THE WAR.
Grace J. Teiper, Herself Brutally As
saulted, Was Shocked by News.
Buffalo. X. Y.. March 24. Miss Grace
J. Teiper was told vesterduy for the EI Paso, Tex., March 24. No word
first time that her mother and brother, j had come to the military headquarters ,
Frederick, were dead, the victims ot a
murderous attack while riding from Or
chard park to Buffalo in the family au
tomobile on the night of January 30 and
that the injuries which have kept her in
the hospital for six weeks were inflicted
by the murderer. She was not told that
another brother, John Edward Teiper, is
in county jail charged with the crime.
When Miss Teiper was taken to the
hospital from the Orchard park road,
surgeons said she would die. Her skull
was fractured in five places. Wednesday j
he was pronounced surgically well and i
able to leave the hospital. Iter future'
actions probably will be controlled by the
wishes of the district attorney, it was
said.
The county prosecutor probably never
will obtain from Miss Teiper any testi
mony that would tend to clear up the
circumstances of the dmble murder, the
hospital surgeon said. She is suffering
from retrogated ammesia. Her mind, is
a blank as to what occurred during tlie
two hours preceding the murders, it is
said, and she received the news of the
murders as one learning for the first
time of a great calamity.
DELEGATES NOT INSTRUCTED.
early to-day to eonfirm the report that
American troops and the Carranza army
had- surrounded Villa and his men and
that a battle was imminent.
The report was received by the Mexi
can consul, Amlreias Garcia, that the
Villa outlaws were seen to be hemmed
in at El Oso, about five miles south of
Xamiquipa, where Villa fled after con
flict with Cnrranza forces at (Santa Ger
trudes. Villa, according to a dispatch
from General Bertani, the Carranza com
mander in the field of OjK'rations, made
a stand in Santa Clara canyon, near
Santa Gertrudes, but was driven out
wit h a loss of several men killed and 100
horses captured. The loss of the horses
waa a hard blow to Villa., it was said,
an he depends on the high quality of the
ntounts of the men to execute rapid
moves.
Information regarding tho impending
battle at EI Oso wta expectantly await
ed to-day by Consul Garcia and General
Gavira at Juarez. Brigadier General
Ball at Fort i.liss was without informa
tion regarding Pershing's forces, where
the strategic moves in the Chihuahua
district have been cloaked in strict si
lence. For several days Pershing has
made no report regarding his movement
to his superiors.
Go Free from Maine to Republican Na
tional Convention.
Portland." Me. . March 24. Trim to a I troops at EI Oso, near Xamiquipa, was
nrecedent that never has been hroken . accepted to-day by General Funston as
except in the case of two favorite sons, ; probably true, although no confirmation
JamesG. Blaine and Thomas B. Reed, the; by Brigadier-General Pershing had been
T?nmili!irAna nf faine veRirdiv ftpliw-f i1 i recei t(I.
A Returning Passenger Said There Must
Have Been 1500 Men.
El Paso, March 24. Carcia Flores, a
Spanish merchant of the city of Chihua
hua, who arrived here last night, said
Villa held up a tram on which he was
traveling at Moctexuma, 85 miles north
east of Xamiquipa, where the Carranra
authorities have insisted the bandit chief
waa located. Flores is well known in El
Paso. j
"We were traveling north from Chihua
hua City," he said, "and were nearing
Moctezuma Wednesday afternoon when
we encountered a large force of men. Ac
cording to my best estimate there must
ave been 1500 in all.
"When we reached the statioA we were
amazed to see Pancho Villa himself enter
the train. We had supposed he was many
miles to the west. He walked through
every carriage declaring that be was
searching for Americans and that hu
would kill any he found. 'I am not
fighting Mexicans,' he announced, 'ex
cept the first chief andthose traitors
with him who have turned Mexico over
to the Americans.'
"Villa stopped to , chat with some
friends of his who were on the train.
He told them that General Herrera ltad
joined him three days since with 2,000
men, fully equipped and armed, who had
followed him from ChihuRhua City. He
finally left the train without molesting
anyone, but he tod some supplies which
lie said be needed badly.
AMERICAN MONEY
FINANCING VILLA
Lieutenant Sir Ernest II. Shaekleton has
returned from his Antarctic expedition.
The news of his achievements is withheld
for the present.
The adventure of Lieutenant Shackle-
ton had a three-fold purpose, to investi
gate the Antarctic on the meridian, to
si-cure for the British flag the honor of
being the first national emblem thus tak
en from sea to sea across the south polar
realm and to conduct scientific work.
The expendition left England in two
sections about six weeks alter the Euro
pean war began.
MONTPELIER
Miss Bessie Guyette and Clyde H. Brig-
ham Married Last Evening.
agreement is to run nnd there is little
prospect of an immediate settlement.
Those in touch with the situation say
they will not be surprised if no settle
ment is made until the lust . week in
April.
Committees representing both sides
met Wednesday evening. President John
Scott of the board of trade, who waa in
strumental In bringing thera together,
was present. i
The cutters reiterated that they were
a unit in favor of a flve-vear agreement.
and the manufacturers said they had not
changed their views of the situation and
wanted a four-year agreement.
A suspension of work occurred on
March 1. Since then the National Gran
ite Manufacturers' association ha ap
proved "four-year agreements." The na
tional association of the strikers takes
There Was Beer in the Cel
lar, Whiskey m Ground
Floor, Rur pstairs
OFFICE' jAULED
r'j THE COOLER
Mrs. Leonora Saia Figured
in One of the Largest
Raids in Some Time
Clyde II. Briglmm of this city, son of Ino action on such matters, leaving it to
Mrs. H. A. Urigham of St. Johnsbury, the discretion of the branches making
and Mis Bessie Guyette, daughter of the agreement.
Alexander Guyette of Berlin, were quiet
ly married at 8 o'clock last evening, the
ceremony taking place at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Jtov Kussell, 12 Brown
street, in the presence of a few relative.8.
Jhcv were unattended. 1 tie marriage
ceremony was performed by Rev. Stan-penimz the Trial of His Divorce Suit
LIEUT. G. T. SWASEY
MUST PAY ALIMONY
tioiral church. The ltooiii is employed
as conductor on the Barre 4 Montpelier
Traction Power company line, a posi
tion which he has tilled for several
moutha. The bride is a ' graduate of
Montpelier high school and for several
years ha been employed as clerk m tlie
brosi bakery. Mr. and Mrs. P.rigltam
left last evening on a wedding trip to
Boston end on their return will reside
at 12 Brown street.
It Is Also Coming from Foreign Coun
tries, According to Senator Lewis'
Resolution.
Washington, I). C, March 24. Senator
Lewis, Democrat, declared in a resolution
from Mexican source's that Villa has been ' introduced in the Senate to-day that the
defeated by American and Mexican
an uninfetrueted delegation to the na
tional convention. Xo effort was made
to pledge them for any candidate for the
EI Paso, Starch 24. Andreas Garcia,
Mexican consul here, made publie last
presidential nomination. The majority n)K" a telegram w ludi lie said lie Had
of the delegates are said to be favora- j received trom General uavira announc-
ble to Justice Charles E. Hughes. ilng '"- me iarranza iorces naa ueieai-
Four delegatcs-at-large were chosen ea v ma yesterday at ;arita i.oertrnues,
by the state convention and two from : near JNamiquipa. According to the an
And Then Discuss Trade Relations, Says
Lloyd-George.
London, March 24. "Our first object
must be the successful conclusion of the
war, to which everything must be sub
ordinated," said David Lloyd-George,
minister of munitions, in a vigorous
speech in th House of Commons last
night, when Sir Henry Diaziel demanded
a declaration of the British policy at the
forthcoming economic conference of the
allies at Pans. Sir Henry asked that the
delegates should be empowered to say
there that never henceforth could Brit
ish trade relations with Germany be the
same as before the war.
Mr. Lloyd-George said:
"If we are to organize trade for genera
tions to eomo it must be done deliber
ately and carefully. It is not merely a
question of tariffs. If wc lose the war,
the setting up of any fiscal system,
whether free trade or protection, will be
wretched consolation. There arc things
bigger than fiscal questions, things which
go to the very root of human life and
liberty everything that constitutes tho
self -respect of men.
"We must not subordinate human lib
erty and honor, self-respect and civiliza
tion ff mankind to any trade policy, meetinir consisting of moraine- and after
When we consider trade, th4 first thing noon sessions for the different depart
American authorities had knowledge of
supplies and money being furnished Vil
la from foreign countries and from the
United States. His resolution proposed
to brand Americans who gave such aid
as guilty of actual treason.
The Brighton Foresters' association,
organized to buy and sell and develop
real estate, lias filed art idea of associa
tion with the secretary of state, the prin
cipal place of business to lie at Brighton,
in Essex county. The capital stock is
$500, divided into 20 share. The incor
porators are I). A. Elie, E. Cummings,
John T. Merrill and F. Parent, all of
Island Pond
Against Anna M. Swasey, in Which
He Charges Her with In
fidelity, Boston, March 24. Lieutenant George
Truman Swasey of the United States
navv was ordered yesterday afternoon in
superior court to pay $)M) a month ali
mony to Mrs. Anna M. Swasey pending
the trial of his divorce suit.
Lieutenant Swasey is suing his wife
for divorce on the ground of alleged
adultery. Thev were married in Jersey
City, X. J., Oct. 3, 190(1, and since then
have lived in Boston, Greenfield, Cam
bridge and other placoa. The. libel ac
cuses Mrs. Swasey of having been un
faithful to her marriage vows at .New
York, Portsmouth, JT. II., Hong Kong,
China, where she accompanied her hus
band when he went there on one of the
Olio of the larcest hauls of allecred!
contraband liouor made in some tima
was stored in the rum repository at po
lice headquarters this forenoon as the
result of a police raid on the premises of
Mrs. Leonora Saia at I Bturliee avenue.
In connection with the search and seiz-
ure airs, oaia was arrested on a charge
of aelling illegally and arraigned before
Magistrate H. V. Scott in city court.
The woman entered a plea of not guilty,
intimated tliat she would like to have
jury hear more of the complaint made
to Grand Juror William Wislmrf, and
then furnished bail in the sum of $r50.
Magistrate Scott continued the case until
Monday morning at 0 o'clock, when a
jury will probably be empaneled if the
respondent desires a trial.
According to the officer, Mrs. Saia waa
at tho ironing board when they appeared
at her home. Chief Sinclair and Deputy
Sheriff G. L. Morris entered through the
front door while Officer David Henderson
negotiated the rear entrance. Scattered
promiscuously about the house were
beer. whiskey and rum. Three barrels of
PfafTs brew, one of the receptacles brim
ming with a well-known spring-time bev
erage, were seized in the cellar. Loose
and portable bottles of beer were on a
shelf in the basement and there waa
whiskey on two floors. Upstairs the po
lice found a bottle of rum, a rarity, it is
said, in this section of the country.
A team was requisitioned to transport
the seizure to No. 2 Prospect street and
transportation was furnished Mrs. Saia,
Grand Juror Wishart will conduct tho
prosecution and it is understood that the.
respondent is to retain counsel. Mrs.
Saia waa arrested on a similar charge in
this city July 27, 1914, according to city
court records.
WHOLESALE FRUIT STORE
In probate court Julius Converse of MP of tho and Cambridge,
AVIATOR GORRELL FOUND.
nouncenient Villa, after leaving several
dead and wounded on the field, aban
doned 100 horses and fled to El Oso.
General Gavira of the Jitarez garrison
received further advices yesterday re
garding tha battle between Villa and Col.
Cam) near Namiquipa last Monday. Gen.
Guvira said the Villa, trooos were routed
and fled toward Namiquipa and that j j'"". the middle of a sand-swept, un-
iniuiDluilco. jiimeiui on me uoruers m
like breilerico, but suffered only slight'
Thus All the American Airmen in Mexico
Are Accounted For.
Columbus, N. M-, March 24. Lieut.
Edgar S. Gorrell of tho U. S. aero corps,
who has been missing since last Sunday,
was found yesterday threo miles south
of Ascension by a motor truck under
command of Lieut. J. L. Parkinson, 20th
infantry, according to reports made last
night to military headquarters here. (Jor
rell was uninjured, but was out of gaso
line and kid lost his way.
Lieutenant Gorrell had bwn alone 48
each of the four districts were named
at district conventions held during the
noon recess, in addition to a dozen al
ternates. Col. Fred N. Dow of Portland;
Harold M. Sewall of Bath; Congressman
John A. Peters of Ellsworth, and Judge
Charles J. Dunn of Orono are the dele-
gates-at-larpe.
A platform of principles for the state
campaign next fall was adopted with J forces of Gen. I.uis Gutierrez went in pur-
very liltlo discussion and practically no, suit to give ilia further battle,
opposition. According to a telegram General Ga-
The policies of the present national v'ira says he received, the battle, which
administration were severely arraigned, ' took, place several kilometers south of
both in the resolution and in the address- j Xamiquipa, lasted several hours. Villa,
es of Former Governor William T. Cobb, i according to the telegram, is now in the
chairman of the convention, who predict-I vicinity of Namiquipa. Fortes are ad-
- ..' . ; t';n ; ,.-J nfr.,i ..! hid iijfr wm uiHtsKin n
ea inai a re-uniteu party win coniront i " ". . ...... , . . f, th.r ,.1 ami
the democracy, and of Senator William! from Is Cruces. Col. Satas from Babi- of A' ter flvL! o ,n!les
A. Smith of Michigan, the afternoon jeora, Col. Hernandez from Tepehaunea, "ZX'ZJS? U.TZ
sneaker. Gen. Garra from Santa Clara and Gen.!. . , , . . , ' , . .
spcascr. . ... - , fort to determine his whereabouts, he
ItttHZon liuni xeuiuaucic, tut. (.eteiam
added.
His plane
ly from exposure to the sun.
was intact.
With the receipt of yesterday's re
ports, all the eight army aviators who
left last Sunday to fly to Caas Grandes
have been accounted for.
The fiver said that Kn aftar the start
A 'PHONE CONFERENCE
Was Held at Burlington, with ISO People
Present.
Burlington, Starch 24. About 10 em
ploye of the Xew England Telephone A.
Telegraph company and affiliated com
panies in the etate of Vermont, with sev
eral companies outside the state, met in
this citv yesterday to attend a joint
to be done is to obliterate any idea of re
venge. I-et us do the best for the mil
lions of jM'ople of this country, but I
do not think that we can ever have the
same condition as before the war."
NATIONAL GUARD
MAY BE CALLED
To Act as Boundary Guard While Regu
lar Army Is Sent Into Mexican
Territory.
was forced to alight on the plateau be
cause of a leaking fuel tank.
FELL THREE STORIES.
ments and the meeting of the Vermont ;
BOMBED GERMAN DUGOUTS.
British Report They Were Filled with
Germans.
Lieut.-CoI. Samuel Reber Was Badly In
jured at Washington.
Washington, D. C, 5farch 24. Lieut.
Col. Samuel Reber. chief of the army avi
ation service, fell three stories in his
borne here yesterday and was badly in
jured. He was removed to a hospital.
Colonel Reber fell over the banister
rail of a stairway in his home and
He
Moretown has settled his account as ad
ministrator of the estate of Patrick Far-
rell, late of Moretown. Tlie will of
George Montague, late of Montpelier,
has been filed for probate.
Funeral services were held privately
yesterday afternoon at 2 o'clock for Mrs.
Merinda M. Dodge, whose death occurred
Tuesday at the age of f7 years, at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. If. H. Tem
plcton, 235 F.lm street. Bev. Ivan H.
Benedict, pastor of the Baptist church,
officiated. The bearers were II. A. Gould,
H. E. Dodge, C. A. Dingwall and Harry
Fitch. There were a number of floral
pieces from relatives. The remains were
placed in the tomb at Cutler cemetery
to await burial in the spring.
The Clerks' bowling team emerged vie
torious from a contest with the Eagles
last evening at the School street alleys,
the three strings being the firet of six
strings to be bowled for tlie suppers
Tlie Clerks rolled for a grand total of
1,3")5 and the Eagles, the challengers,
will be forced to overcome a lead of 30
in the next three strings to win the
match. To-night the "wets" of Barre
and the "drys" of Montpelier, teams
composed of employes of the Montpelier
& Wells River railroad, will meet for the
second'time, the "dry" having won in
a contest at Jiarre m days ago.
Assistant Judge George H. Dale of
Waterbury is suffering from burn on
his right hand and wrist, inflicted at his
home Thursday forenoon while attend
ing to his hot water furnace. Something
in the boiler gave way, Judge Dale being
scalded by the hot water which emerged.
Tlie burns, while painful, are not serious.
P. K. Garney of Cabot, the juror who
fell in front of the Standksh market yes
terday forenoon and cut his face, was
discharged from the hospital yesterday
afternoon and was able to be at the
courthouse this morning to await a call
to sit on a case.
In line with improvements accompany
ing the transfer of the local office of tlie
Western Union TeflegTaph company to
the Kinlto building on State street is
the proposed plan to erect an electric
sign 18 feet in length on one side of the
building. The sign will run in a per
pendicular position, a permit to erect the
sign having been given by the city coun
cil when it was explained that it would
not extend over the street.
Tlie bankruptcy petition of Arthur A.
Stetson of Rarre. a laborer, has been re-
Mass,
Thev separated Feb. 29 of this vear
and the divorce libel was tiled by Swa
sey March 3.
Mjs. Swaeey testified that she and her
husband came back from the Orient last
June, and after that lived in llston and
then in Cambridge. She declared that
she was going to contest her husband's
divorce suit and intimated that she
would be able to prove her innocence of
all charges that might bo preferred by
her husliend and would have some
mighty interesting testimony on her
side. She said she thought she ought to
have at least $1."0 a month alimony, but
would accept $100. :
.. Attorney John H. Blanchard, the hus
band's counsel, at once objected to any
such amount as exorbitant. He stated
that his client was a oor man. Whose
only income was his salary as a naval
officer. Tlie living expenses of Swaaey
were quite large, too, it was claimed.
RUSHING COURT BUSINESS.
Judge
Fish is Now on Fourth Case
Nine Days.
Rutland, March 24. Judge Frank
in
Is To Be Opened at 1-15 Granite Street
at Once.
Property at 1-15 Granite street recent
ly occupied as a general store, has been
leased to the Vermont Fruit company,
wincn na oeen occupying quarters tem
porarily in the Zanleoni block on North
Main street. B. J. Fayette of Burling
ton, proprietor of the ' business, and his
assistant, Toufic XTemia, arrived in the)
city this morning to take charge of tha
work of transferring the stock to Gran
ite street and by mid-forenoon the work
was well under way. Produce and fruifc
are to be handled by the concern on a
wholesale basis. The Barre depot is to
be conducted in conjunction with a whole
sale store in Burlington, and efforts will
be made to make the local store a head
quarters for the fruit and produce busi
ness in central Vermont.
The Granite street property !s ideally
suited to storage purposes and when mi
nor alterations have been maJe to the
basement, the company will be iu a posi
tion to handle large consignments of
both fruit and storage.
MRS. RH0DA CAVE.
Fish and the members of the county bar
are making an unusal record in disposing
of cases early in the present term of
court. Although the session has so far
lasted onlv nine days, three cases have
been tried by jury and a fourth is well
under way.
The case before the court now is a
$3,000 negligence suit in which Thomas
Gonyea of this city seeks damages from
his brother, Frank A. Gonyea, and Fred
erick II. Remington, a well-known build
ing contractor, who, two ytsars ago, con
ducted a furniture store here under the
name of Gonyea & Remington. Thomas
Gonyea fell down an elevator shaft and
sustained a broken leg among cither in
juries. He declares that a congested con
dition about the elevator door caused
the accident.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Passed Away To-day at Her Home, 53
Elm Street.
The death of Mrs. -Rlioda Cave, wife
of the late James B. Cave, occurred at
her home, 50 Elm street, this morning at)
3:30 o'clock, the end following an ill
ness of two weeks. For a time after she
was first stricken, her condition was notj
considered serious and a week ago it waa
thought that she was on the road to re
covery. A change for the worse, however,
came this week. Mrs. Cave" is survived
by two sons, Arthur J. Cave, with whom
she resided, and Walter Cave. Her sister,
Mrs. Helen Warren, and a brother, An
drew Hurley, live m Waterbury.
Mrs. Cave was born Rhoda Burley in
Waterbury, Feb. 10, 1S39. Her marriaga1
to Mr. Cave took place in Waterbury iu
ISfil. Her husband passed away in April,
1001. Mrs. Cave had been a resident of
Barre for the past 14 years and w-a
highly respected by all who knew her.
She was a member of tho ladies of thw
G. A. R.
The funeral will be held in the Hed
ding Methodist church Sunday afternoon
at 2:30 o'clock. Rev. E. F. Newell will
officiate and the body will be placed in
the tomb at Elrawooil.
DEFENSE BEING HEARD.
Ronald Veale of Michigan City, Ind., Iln Case of Stanyan vs. Security Assur.
student at the Y. M. C. A. college in i ance Com nan v.
Springfield, Mass is spending his Easter j In Washington county court to-day
the defense commenced the introduction
vacation at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
of testimony in the case of Annie W.
Washington, D. C, March 24. The
mipstion of callimr the N'ationnl Cnnril !
7 . -, ...... r ...... ; .:( - - - v: i 1 " 17'" IJ K ftrwnnr f V.l,in..nn .!.
chanter of the TAi,l,nn TeWranhi'or Doruer only 10 release ine regulars ! ran 01 ".' """ Stetson of Rarre. a laborer. lias been re- 77. Y . '.
Sor Ltv f Vw VnL.l i h. ninT ' Mexican service was discussed at to- plunged down the areaway. He is a son- , , ta Refer,.? Tbcriault and VK"aVon." 10 ,l,e ln,en"r 01 lnf Stanvan vs. the Security Assurance com-
nleasant feature of the dsv theid.v''!, 'h'"'t meeting, but it was decided in law of Lieut.-Gen. Miles, retired and re- i thp first mating will 1 held April fi. 0rte .woo,c; n"1 ry, were starie. tins ,)r w J Mayf, of x,rth,-leId
dinner aervwl at4he Hotel Vermont at 6; 11 'r aiuon cenny m ueeii a1T-riiig u-ir- a uu.m , of J.m& and a-s-cts ot i -r--)m? tie rRt witness to be examine-l
or inwiigaiM.H inei.ic u-iu u- m f 1 1 , , t'"s forenoon, i'r. i;. r.. Meele ot Mont-
ministration of the avittion service. j:urd Ewing was in Montpelier cifv ow'r,' " "f"' "''' "'' p..ier probably will be the second wit.
Colonel Reber had been on the top floor '.rt this morning before Acting Judge seating capacity m.-rascl. hen change m,s$( ,t j( tj,0,Ifjht that , ... will
of the house with his little son. who was ; r xioodv. havinir been arrested two 'have been completed the simw house w., : t th , to da v.
LOYAL TO CARRANZ !1""r,nUnca th,-r' with nw"lM "' on dara ago. He was charged with sub-,' be occupied by Atlo Marriam. propri- j T)) Mjt of (,,en w rown v jN
his way down sIipNd or was seized with equont ofTene of Intoxication and ,"' ' '"J"" meaire. nangca nn.it r
vertigo.
o'clock in the evening, for which 75 cov- j lm Tlme-
ers were laid. 'ptiv IICOFOIJ OT T t t
The morning scusion was held at the : (11 EN IILRLRKA STILL
main office of the Xew England company J
and was divide! up into three meetings
for the plant, traffic and commercial de
London. March 24.-The British official ' !?rt",71t-. A J,.'int rontf'r''"' ' t'" 'American Consul Letcher at Chihuahua
statement issued lasumght on the cam- : , 1 . " ,
i r 1 Tr , - 1 garden of tre Hotel ermont in tlie even-
paign in Fran. and Belgium reads: 1 t 1 ,
w . - j . . ,n presided over by the district heads.
s' i 1 v 11.11 t ,.. . , .
fill raids against the enemy trenche , t r v. . - , . .
.1 . . J .v. 11. .1. i. ' " iMJini ii.panmrni
KMl'MI, , " .ll.tl.-. ,. vild (lie IM-tllUHTT-i
Basee road . Out prisoner was captured
and three dugouts fiiled with German
were honilied and blown in.
"The enemy sprang a small mine north
of Arras and two mile n.rtheat of
Neiive Capplle, cauing slight damage
to our trenches. A grenade attack north
of Arras was repulsed.
"There has been artillery activity
at-dt Fricuirt, mmrourt, Soorl.e,
t!e Hbeo:iT reJoMbt and Ypre. At
one f.Vce our artillery fire raur4 an x
ioioa ia tl enemy line."
Sends Word to Washington, De
nying Revolt of Garrison and
General to Villa.
Washington. I. (.. March 24. Ameri
can Consul letcher at Chihuahua lo-!ar
and S. F. Parker of the traffic depart
ment. Following tlie dinner adjourn
ment waa taken to the roof n-bere Wit
liam A. Shaw, forecaster at the I nited reported there wa no truth in t .e re
State .ther bureau at Northfield. ported revolt of Geoeri! ll-'rerra jii I t! e
gare a lecture on weather condition and Carranra jrarri- n at l"hihuhna. Itrh
tbeir effect P-n the work of the tele- cr'a lii-pat. h re-.M'-J that General He
rhooe companies. Hi le,-tnre wa il- r rta it command of the de fa.-to
lui-trated by stere.t slid.. TM e"v,-mmrnt trp there ami Una!
meeting wa for all employe cf th com- to C'airnj. Hi rep t i. tx de. .
pani.- and wwa largely ttn-)e.!. ri awning n of the ni.-t menacing fe
ahort riine meeting of t! e t ,ift r , tun- ff the Mexican it nation,
beld iiit nreti.m t it a) tr.-id! orer A It hough .enral I'mi-t" an 1 Pell on
CRUISER MAY BE LOST.
..I l i;.lnM He tol.1 ahowt irivinir T III the utn store, csciiliei some-
a man in P-arre two dollar, with which ;time a a clothing tore. contemplate an
the aforesaid man bought a quart and a interior arrangement that will ao-omnio-h.lf
.f linnor. Kwinir didn't know the date itself to the u-e of the Hiver-d
Log Book of tbe Cumberland Have Been man and didn't know where be g .t the Fruit Co.. which propose to trai,f,T its
Picked Up. I liquor. After bearing the disclosure, retail ft ore from the A. Tbnusi bhsk in
iJudire f-y ent Ewing back to jail to t!.e Arva.Ie.
Norfolk. Va.. March 24. A rsibiiitr . .l.i-ic it over !
that the lUittfh cruiser CuiiilrUnl , The death of Wilmer A. I,eUn l oe
imgl.t hae met it h disast r oft" the m 1- irrr-l earlv vet-rdav morning at hi
liam K. and Mabel A. Jackson, R. J.
Fitrgerald, Alice E. longe!le and tha
Montpelier Saving Pank and Trust com
pany ha lieen entered for trial. It i
peniTal assumpsit and for $3ta).
die Atlantic coast a fn by marine
men in the finding of . rl l.-g b k
niarkeil H. M. Cumltland" on t'..e
North Carolina fiiore near Chio-ini.-.Hnico.
The book were found reiterNlay by
ci-t guard, w ! rc;rti they appar-
Titly l-.o! jut tn washed ia.
The uutber Ian I is .v.te tr. rr.i.--l
vf .hi t..n dtsnUcentedt and In a
by tire president, J. IL Gowdey.
the border had recvitrd reports cvefura- jita.n battery of 14 ut ia. (-n.
home. W Colb ve ftreet. after an iilnc
r,f seiersl rear, due t' bar.h ning of C.e
erteric. The ile -es-e-I re-i'I.-d f.r in.-ny
tear n the NorthP.M r- a l. o-rati."g
a large !irv ith hi licit S-r. He pur
r 'ia-" 1 t!.e Fri' k I .: on (?-!ie '-e-t
in l"li and remore-l to the cenf.T if the
ei'v. He U '( in M Li1 - t'etfee
id. 1. Ik4. t e of 1-e.wce l
Ctariaa 1! Lela&i. He warrej
Mary larke in Wet lliirV-t.n in
i'i and they mined t M-mtpci.er in
17I- I'e bve I i wi'e ari l one
ler. l- rtru M. I-In l. an I nej.hew.
.I..h K. Ix-'mi l of StJUe ft t "..f t-it.
He r t ree?if -d the town .f li.-rim in Ce
l.--,.-Utiie lf.ire t"t t-t .f ' town
m e-l tn I l-.-r .! a i'-T
,,! m a t.tf-r hfi'f. tmwr'i
1 hII S.tir.'ay ft-tven a i
k at Ue U-.i.
ATTACKED BY RATS.
Middlebnry Man Nearly Lost His Thumb
While Sleeping.
Middl-rmry. March 24- Att.k.-d in h a
f'p by rat. John Kenworthy mi.TifJ
itta lute on h face, hi Im. k. hi !,
arid In thumb on tbe le!t hand n neur
it I itjen i ff. Mr. Kctirr.hv iirr aiona
at t h. me . "h ;in hill The rat-
g-T)s 'mi: !ii. t the fcmt-e tiirou.
t: cellar d r. w',.ih i Wft cr .
I r'y if.tir.'.t tn -fl-nlng Mr, KenTl;;y
attra4e4 t jr lr. Sanbura.
