j nu ;rt vr
'?av;
i 21
C
rf-
W? lEunfng Herald
....
... auaTH COUNTY'S
KLAMATH FALLS'
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
'official newspaper
t.
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1916
I 'rice, Fire Oats
w-so. Vl utf
Cross Examination
of Lawrence is in
Progress all Day
.. f tho sharpest baltlo of wits fence and cumo toward mu tu u light
" " . ,h innl n attitude. I told him to get back,
iklt DM 0"'0,u"-u """ ,,.., , l.ii.l i,n rlvlil mi tnv mI.1i. f
t a. Krnast Lawrence on charge of tw fence) b(U o conUOll coro,Ilg
joilni Mm. Alum Kuenne in "w(t mCf th. time saying: 'I'll show
M4d Hollow battle, baa been raging. you, you a of a !' He made
.Xihbood, with C. M. Onelll. of a Pa at mo with hU flat, and I
i-eiecutlou. cross oMmlnlBg Law- knocked him down, Ifo had a rock
- Both atlck jirctty cloae to the In hla hatid when ho came up, and
IXlntolrcd In tho case, with little throw thla at me. I knocked him
uofTerblae. Occaalonally, how-, down ngalu. and thou ho crawled
,r,r there are aome enfilading tax.; through tho fonco ngaln.
Uetvlth the other attorneya Vhoot-. "While my hack was turned, he
ii hot little rcmarka at each other, secured u rlflo from tho wagon, and
ObmUb croita examination mi-iwuon i mriiuu uruuuu, hu nan n
hot me tnrougn mo arm. i wus
on my way to the houao to fix my
arm when Andrew Kuohno Jumped
on me from behind nnd bent mo nnd
chokod me
"Todd cnnie up then. Onu look
flog
.u. with a bulldog tenacity. He
lite off tbe point at laaue a little oc
Miloullr. but only In un effort to
lit tbe defendant In condition o ho
Mn nBMoectedly tiro a question at
Hn regarding mino vital apot In hltj
UttlBony, to be anawcred witnout
mod previous warning. In hla croaa
mmlnatlon he hna brought out ntoro
to. date regarding the atatui or the
hoflMtead ownerahlp and the agree
Mti between tawrence and 'Mra.
VseiBe than all tho reat of the testl
moay heretofore given. If it wore
coatlned In concrete form upon thla
polib
In Lawrence, however, Onolll huh
tn adversary tn tho battle of "wit .
who la no Inferior opponent, no
ail rarely appeared confuaed on any
ef the Uiuen, and If for a moment
hi tu, ho baa usually corrected
MBMlf and dotnlled tbe clrcurnafin-'
en retarding tho matter. Lawrence
U one of tho moat Intelligent wit
mum examined during the preaont
trial, and ho hag proven a remarkable
btaeflt to hla caio by hla nctlona and
UeUioony whllo In the wltneaa atand.
Following hla tcatlmony regarding
tli antecedents, hla meeting Mra.
Kuthne in San Franclaco, the torma
under which they wont on the Uomc
atead, hU making oxtenalve Improve
nunta there, nnd other Introductory
tNtimony of tho kind, Lawrence yea
ttrday afternoon atated that prac
tically ever since he has been in Dodd
Hollow, W. H. Todd and Waah Ad
ams, two of tho stato'a principal wit
mum, have been very bitter toward
hi..
Ute lait Rummer, the morning af
ter the burning of tho barn on tho
Dorsey Johnson ranch, which Todd
had leaned, Lawrence aaya Todd and
Tonni Kuohno drovo up to the home-
Mead and tlod their team up to tho
leece. Lawrence aaya it waa ncces
ary for him to go in that direction
lo'aee what a hired hand waa doing,
d that as ho waa paaalng Todd,
iofla naked him what time he had
feached home tho night before.
( "My answer," said Lawrence, "waa
'Nose ot your bualneaa.' aa 1 did not
t to nop nnd talk with bltn. Todd
then eaid, 'I'll make it sosae of my
"Ineaa thon,' nnd crawled under the
mo by my wound, nnd one by my
wnundod arm, nnd thoy dragged mo
to tho wagon, AndTow beating mo
with his flat and kicking me over
tho kidneys on the way there. They
then took me to Merrill, but nenr
the Whltlntch place, beforo reaching
Merrill. Kuohno, nsalated by Todd,
dragged mo over the back ot tho seat
and let tho wagon run over me.
Kiichnn then beat me up ngnln."
lawrcnco stated that Mra. Kuehne
loft the homestead In December,
I OH. Ho said that tor n day or two
sbo was "miffed" about something
that was "aid or done at tho ranch
house, nnd then .went to town, walk
ing. Instead of using a conveyance
na waa her uaunl wont. It wns sorao
dnya Inter, according to the witness,
boforo Mra. Kuohno returned, wnon
ho remonstrated with her for leaving
him with tho stock to tako care of,
chickens to feed, the cooKing nna
tho chores to do, whon she knew ho
had nobody to help him.
Mrs. Kuehne's answer, sold Law
rence, was: "I uont enro; t'ui ."".
tc take tho place away from you."
"I thon said to her," said Law
rence. " 'Can't you listen to reason
and overlook somo little grudgeT
We'vo been friends so for, haven't
wo? nnd ought to bo nblo to contlnuo
friends.' Her roply was: 'I've had
enough of you and I am going to tako
the plnco; I nm going to got tho
patent In a llttlo while.' 'So you are
going to dtlve mo off?' said I. 'Yes.'
she replied, 'that's whnt I nm going
to do,' and after looking through her
personnl effects awhile. Bho loft, leav
ing nil of her property behind. She
walked toward tho Todd place."
Lawronco denied cvor tolling Mrs.
Kuohno to got off tho place, nnd Bald
that If W. II. Todd had testinoa tnni
Lnwronco had driven her off tho placo
he did not Bpenk truthfully. Mrs.
Knnhnn'H effects remnlned nt tho
ranch house for six months, and An
drew Kuohno remained with him nt
the ranch for qulto awhllo, accord-
ticsses. Mrs. Kuehne, he snlil, had a
shotgun, and Andrew two rifles and
a revolver The 22 special Andrew
used In the fight was presented to
Andrew by Lawrence, according to
tho witness.
Adjournment was taken thon for
tho day. There was a little delay In
starting court thin morning, owing to
tho Illness of C. C. Brophy, one of
seat In the Jury box.
Asked If he had made a statement
to Mr. and Mrs. Orson Realx In which
ho threatened Mrs. Kuehne nnd cnll
ed hor n vile name, Lawrence said
that he did not that he did not use
that kind of language In tho pres
ence of ladles. Deals, he .stated, was
a prize fighter, and he stated that he
and Deals had trouble over a potato
deal, and over Deals' statement to
him that he had shot a range horse,
Spelling Championship
to Be Settled Tonight
Juit who is the beat speller tn the
Ktaaith county ichoola la matter I
ha decided this evening at Houi
on's opera Dense. The conUit ,ttf
Klamath champlwahla will be
liu shortly after 8 o'clock and all are
ltd. there being no adnsUston
A'hort Pro'm will be rendered
2 PupHa of the city schoole. The
W between the wlnnera of tbe
2wet preliminary contests will then
Me tor the charoplonahlp.
The. first prlie la Mveateen low-
2JJJ i lold watch,- either lady'a or
wKbho',, glvw by Frtnk M Up,,
Mb prlie of , uvea by J. 0.
JJW of Hlldebraa, U the second
" the third U a M touataln
pen, donated by tho Btar Drug Co
nt this eltV.
The contestants, wn Jr un
finals arer . s.
Kllaabeth, Lusk, 8th grade, IMvcr
aldo school, Klamath Pallaj Harry
Owen,, 7th grado, Central acbpol,
Klamath FalU; Anna Rueck. Mo
nanaa; Leonard Lewie, Olene; Wil
liam Clark, Olenej Harold Brown,
Dairy: Ruby White, Fort Klamath j
Helen Turner, Willow Brook; Cbrla
tlim Murdook, Plevna; Brma Ager,
Plevua; Joe Smidl, Mallni Mary Vav
rlka, Malln, Audrey Howell, Merrill;
Mabel Latta, HeaUy; Haiel Brown,
Henley; Jeaaie Depuy, Midland; Har
old Todd, Dodd Hollow; Charlotte
Wright. Miller Hill.
to trio witness, who said ho pro- around tho house, looking In tho win-!
rldod the food oaten by Kuehne. dows hh ho went around. I didn't
Mrs. Kuohno received a patent to exposo myself for fear of being shot."
I the homestead In January, 1915, and I He tho'n told of Hunter's approach,
jstnrted suit to oust Lawrcnco In Fob-jand recounted the positions taken at
,ruury or March. Lawronce said her I the gates by Mrs. Kuohno and her'
things remnlned In the ranch house sou, as oxplnlncd by all of the wit
for two or three months after Mrs.
Kuohno started suit, afterwards be-
Mng moved to tho old cabin by him-
self and Andrew Kuehne. They were
Inter hauled away, he said, by W. H.
Todd.
Tho Hunters, according to Law
rence, moved to tho ranch In Sep
tember, 10ir, living In the ranch
house. Lawrence resided with thom
until his homestead shack was fin
ished, when ho moved there, two
months beforo tho shooting. Ho said
he moved thcro to establish rosldenco
on the plcco of land ho was home
steading, nnd also to stay off the
Kuehnc-Iiwronco ranch until after
tho pending lawsuits regarding It
were sottled.
On his way home after his trial
here on chnrgo of setting Are to the
Horsey Johnson born, Lawrence said
he heard nt Merrill of their being
trouble at the ranch, necessitating
tho calling of Constable Durham.
When he reached his homestead shack
Saturday evening ho said he Immedi
ately went over to Hunter's to nna
out nhout tho trouble. After ho heard
of the shutting off of tho water and
the shooting that day by Andrew
Kuohno, Lawrcnco nnd Hunter wout
to Merrill, where they telephoned an
account of tho situation to W. H. A.
Renner hero, nnd arranged to come
to Klnmath Falls Monday to take
lognl stops toward preventing such
actions.
Sunday morning, Lnwrcnce said,
ho wont over to Hunter's and that
while ho wob there Mrs. Kuehne nnd
tho Todds came down with a wagon
load of Mrs. Kuohno's effects.. which
wero put In the old homestead cabin.
Kuehne, ho said, was never more
thnn twenty or thirty feet from tho
tankhouso, except when he wont to
eat, and that then his mothor took
his place, keoplng tho water supply
under armed guard all day long.
Kuohno, he said, carried one gun on
his arm nnd another rested against
tho tankhTiuso door.
Lawrence says he stayed at the
Hunter houso nil day Sunday, for fear
of being shot by Andrew or Mrs.
Kuehne If he exposed himself. He
said ho waited until 11 o'clock that
night beforo ho went home under cov
er of darkness nnd said ho carried
a revolver with him on his trip to
his cabin.
The witness statod that when he
enmo to town for tho trial he left n
shotgun, n 30-30 automatic rifle nnd
a revolver nt his cabin. His cabtn,
lie said, was unlocked nnd whllo ho
wns away tho Hunters took his threo
guns to their house. He stated that
after tho shooting, Constaoie uur
ham took his rovolver and half a
box of 30-30 rifle shells from the Law
rcnco cabin.
Lawrence said ho arose at : ao or
D o'clock tho morning of the tragedyr
and after his breakfast went over to
the Huntors". Ho said his shotgun
shells, his revolver and his 30-30
shelts woro nt his cabin.
Ho recounted Hunter's departure
with a toam, wngon and barrels for
water, and of the appearance, Just
afterwards, of Andrew and Mra.
Kuehne. Ho traced on the map tbe
route taken by tho Kuehnea, aa arm
ed, thoy went from gate to gate, tack
ing up signs.
When Mrs. Kuehne tooK ner posi
nt the first gate, Lawrence said, Hun
ter was at the Van Meter ranch, and
Kuohno came to the home wnere
Lnwrenco, Mrs. Hunter and the chlld
,n ur nnd walked around the
house for nearly an hour. He aald
Kuohne at thla tlrao waa armed with
two rifles and a revolver.
"Mrs. Huntor was badly frighten
ed by Andrew's actions, and put her
,i.im in tho basement of tbe
hnimn ." said Lawrence. "While An
drew waa marching around the house
sho boenme hyaterlad and repoatedly
begged me to aave her and her
babies. When Androw tramped heav
ily up to tne oaoK aoor, uu
ho uskod for Mr. menaranon.
grabbed up the-aO-30 rifle, teated It
and stood In the llrlng room door.
"I said to Mrs. Hunter; 'Bliie, you
.inn hack in the bedroom and leave
thla to me. She asked: 'What it he
bvenka opon the door?' and I told
her that he would break it at hla
"When Kuehne knocked, Mrs. Hun
ter asked him what he wanted, and
be aaked to apeak to Mr. Richard
sou. She asked him to pleaae wait
until Quy returned, and he replied;
'All right, and reaumed hla march
STONE SAYS SOME
INTERESTS SEEK
TO BRING ,
WAR
CHAKOKH BORDER TltOUHLK
INCITED
IS
GETTING READY
- FOR JHE GAME
KLAMATH FALLS WILL AGAIN UK
REPRESENTED IX THE SPORT
ING WORLD WITH A STRONG
BASEBALL AGGREGATION
tho Jurors, who was taken to a doc- FolIowng j,, of Two wirete
lor, dui who was auie i ii-iuiuc ui
Messages Prom Pershing, Which
Were Received In Very Poor Con
illtlon, Army Declilo to Discon
tinue Wl relent ah Uatatlsfactory,
and Use Wires Later' -
lllll'll I'lH-W St'l Vllf
WASHINGTON, D. C. March 24.-
nftor which Lawrence tod him that' .., " readlne of telegrams
h m (Lawrence's) horses wsrc rang- , ., ..
. . ., ., j ,, I. nBl. .i,. detailing the serious conditions along
lug at the time nnd that If Deals snot
nn. nf hla hnr. hM suffer the con-' the Texas and Arizona borders, Sen-
i . .
af. r stone today cnargea mat sin
i?ii forces are seeking to Inflame t'.ie
sequences.
Lawrence stated, thatat the time
Hunter started to turn In the lower
gate nnd Kuehne started to shoot at
him, he and Mrs. Hunter were look
ing at tho proceedings from the ranch
houso. MrB. Hunter, he said, was
calling to him to save Guy.
"After Hunter Jumped from the
wagon nnd. Kuehne fired, Mrs. Hun
ter ran to tho porch with a 30-30
rifle," snld Lnwrence. "After she
fired one shot. I took the gun from
her, and flred one shot, then found
that the gun was no longer loaded.
"Mrs Hunterthen ran in the house
and I ran In, grabbed my shotgun.
ran out on the porch and flred at
Kuehne. I am sure I flred more than
two shots with tho shotgun, firing un
til tho magazine nnd gun were empty.
"Kuehne was firing alternately nt
Hunter and. atmwJetfkwa.hapt-J
Ing. I could'near the bullets rrom
his gun.
As Hunter approached, his team
wns travelling very rapidly, and for
a time appeared to be running away.
Must as Hunter's team was passing
the steps where I stood, I heard Mrs.
Hunter cry out that she had shot Mrs.
Kuehne. I turned around and saw
Mrs. Kuehne for tho first time since
I saw her at tho gate. 8he was In a
sitting position. Just then Hunter
went past In the wagon. I aawa Mrs.
Kuehne struggling to point her gun
at Hunter, and I rushed down there.
Deforo I reached her, she pointed the
gun nt me nnd I wrested this from
her. and also my own shotgun, which
she had seized. I never atruck her
and never cursed nt herv
"I then ran for the back of the
houso ns fast as I could to get away
from young Kuehne, nnd met Hunter
at tho back door, also trying to get
In tho house. Hunter told me to
give him a gun, and I handed him the
one I had taken from Mrs. Kuehne,
and we thon entered tho house after
I had broken tho screon on the milk
room door with my fist, and had
reached through and unlocked tne
door. I went In first. We were both
afraid of being .shot by young
Kuehne."
Lawrence stated that at the time
Mrs.Huuter called that she had shot
Mra. Kuehne, young Kuehne waa auu
flrlns; nt the porch. He aald some
of the bullets plowed up little mounds
of dirt near tho Btops.
Lawrence said Mrs. Hunter naa a
rifle in her hands when they enter
ed the houso. He said he waB pos
itivn thla wns not his 30-80. In the
basement, ho said, Hunter'a wounded
arm began to pain, and they were
unable to nttond to It, having no
water. Mrs. Hunter, ne aiu, wumcu
to crawl out the window to get aid.
but the men prevented her from so
doing. Ho Btated that she crawled
upatalra once to get clothing, for the
baby, which she then dreased In the
basement.
He recounted seeing Kuebne go
tn th aid of his mother, helping her
to her cabin, and ot then' bearing the
loud explosion when Kuebne aet off
a stick of dynamite. Hunters team
then ran away.
Lawrence' made u denial of com
mitting the murdetvf Mra. Kuebne.
He Btated that Ooriubfc Durham
made two trips to tbe raaefe on the
morning ot tbe shooting, Uklagjhe
guna from the ranch the firat time,
and taking Lawrence aa Hunter to,
. , . i -i
(Continued oa page-)
ALLIES DO NOT
WANT TO DISARM
MERCHANTMEN
AMSTEHDAM BELIEVES NAVAL
BATTLE RAGES
1'i'ople of America and Mexico to In-
cl'r them to war. Every man, said
3enitor Stone, "with any sens. knows
that tho situation In Mexico Is crlll
on An effort Is being mado to In
clt the Mexicans to rash acts by
to.ilng them that America con
templates an aggressive niw against
tbe Mexican government ind the Mex
ican people. Will the merabjr of
this body make a bad situation worse
by reading these telegrams at such
a critical period?"
Senator Stone asserted that the re
cent resolution offered by Senator
Sherman, authorizing a call for 50,
000 volunteers, was aimed to pro
voke war against others than Villa.
Renabllcens-denled the Intimation
that they were trying to embarrass
the administration.
Sonator Lewis Introduced a resolu
tion denouncing as a traitor anyone
aiding Villa, claiming they were
guilty of treason. v
The president and cabinet today de
cided that It was not necessary to call
for the militia or volunteers at pres
ent. It is possible, though, that more
regulars will be ordered to the bor
der. The administration believes If
the militia were sent to the border
ft would Inflame the followers of Car-ranxa.
Acting under the advice of the
Business Men's Association, severaTT
members of last year's baseball team
are worklng.to organize another team
for this year that will bo at least the
equal ot last year's fighting bunch.
This little city last year had the"
premier team of Southern Oregon,
and their list of wins made Klamath
Falls the envy and despair of neigh
boring California and Oregon cities.
It also demonstrated that a good
team will be well supported by lov
ers of the game In this section, and
It Is to be hoped that those interested
In the movement will succeed In their
efforts.
A meeting will be held next Mon-
dny at the Commercial Club head
quarters, at which time officers will
be elected to manage the affairs of
the club. Letters have been received
from players In various Coast cities,
and the array of talent to choose from
assures a top-notch club. "Big" Dick
Nelson, who covered first last year
with so much credit, has been en
gaged, and will bring with him from
the University of Oregon Inflelders
Cornell and Shea. From St. Mary's
College will come Joe Maher, an in-1
Holder, ana I'arK wnson, an ouier
garden man, while Tucker Johnson
of Sacramento, who played last
season with Yreka. is also due here
in a short time.
Tbe linup, as doped out to date,
will be aboutjis follows, subject to
change at tbe decision ot the officers
elected:
Clarke, -catcher: Cook and Peter
son, pitchers: Nelson, first base;
Maher, second; Bowdin, third; Cor
nell, shortstop; Palmer, right; John
son, center; and Shea Or Wilson, left.
It Is the intention to put all the
boys under salary, and at any time
one of them falls to earn his stipend
he will be removed
Fin-then of Fire Are Seen in Early
Morning by Mariners French and
German Forces Are SUU Carrying
on Extensive Engagements, With
i
VnryinB Successes AH Along the
Muese and Vicinity
United Press Service
WASHINGTON, D. C. March 24.
The Joint reply of tho allies to the
proposal of the state department to
disarm all merchantmen was received,
today.
It Is understood that tho proposal
has been rejected, the stand being
taken that under the present condi
tions of naval warfare such a atep
Is not warranted, as it would subject
the vessels to too great a risk.
I'nited Press Service
AMSTERDAM, March 24. Incom
ing skippers report that flashes of
gunfire were visible on the horizon
last nYght. They think an Import
ant naval engagement Is in progress.
United Press Service
iri. PARO Tex.. March 24. Gen
eral Bell and Major Sample Bay they
doubt the reports that the American
troons have surrounded Villa or en
eaced him In skirmishes. They say
they have received nothing that would
tend to lead to such conclusions. un
sul Garcia expected the battle to be
gin nt daybreak, but no word has been
received of any clash. American con
sul Fletcher at Chihuahua wired that
General Herrerra Is still military
commander of Chihuahua, and has
not revolted.
United Press Service
BERLIN, March 24. It Is aHi
nounced today that the Germans are
advancing south of Malincoart
against the southwestern side of .Sali
ent, imperilling the Malancourt; and,
Bethincourt poslttons. Artillery duels
continue in tbe Champagne and Ar
gonne regions nnd west of the Muese.
The Germans captured two more
trenches in the Harcourt region.- It
Is also asserted that violent Russian
attacks near Evlnsk were repulsed.
I'nited Press Service
PARIS, March ?4. The Frencir
(continue to shell the Germans In the
woods south of Malincourt. The Ger-
Medford and McCloud have already! mans are making no new assaults.';
organized. strong teams, while Dor- The front to the northwest or ver
rls, Weed, Grants Pass, Yreka and ( dun remains calm.
other neighboring towns are organlz- ,
ing, and baseball this summer prom- AMSTERDAM, March 24. Flush
ises to be a revelation in this section, ing correspondents to Amsterdam
Tho business men of the various ( newspapers report that heavy firing
cities, recognizing the value of a good , ts heard from the channel from "the
team in a place, are doing their ut- direction of Ostend and Westende,-
most to secure the proper material- "
and Klamath Falls will not be found - j wj
in the rear rank, by any means. ' JTlOgS cHlU nOrSco
Q
United Press Service
SAN ANTONIO, Tex.. March 24.
Headquarters announced today that
the wireless. service from Columbus
to the front would be abandoned. Two
messages from Pershing today ar
rived so badly mutilated it was neces
sary to repeat them. It ia believed
that they contained important in
formation. A wire to Casas Grandes
will soon be in operation.
Make the Load
Lees Are Back.
Mr. and Mrs. Will T. Lee arrived
last night from California and Ar- Four hundred hogs and a carload
Izona, after- an absence of several of fine draft horses composes tne
months. Bill was critically ill In' shipment of livestock sent from the
San Francisco last fall, but he has Klamath Basin to outstde points on
regained his weight and part of his 'yesterday's stock special. ' i
strength, although that "pep and Chas. Horton and Louia Gerber
ginger" bo characteristic of Willyum shipped three carloads ot fat hogs to
will have to return through residence ( Portland, and Fred Stukle shipped
In this salubrious clime. ja car of- porkers to Swanaon ft Co.
i In Sacramento.
Shook 4n Town. i Geo. Manning shipped a car of
Dave Shook is in town today from ; fancy draft horses to Wells-Fargo
hi rancb near Dairy.
company at Sacramento.
United Press Service
WASHINGTON, D. C. March 24.
D. A. RlchardB, a prominent attorney
of Douglas, Aria., today wired to 8en-
ator Ashurst la follews:
"The Mexicans have forty pieces
of artillery and 3,000 cavalry within
a distance of about ten blocks from
the center of Douglas, and 7,000 cav
alry about six miles south ot here.
The Americans nave oniy i.euw u
fantry. 300 cavalry and four guns
atatloned two miles from Douglas."
Mr. Richards said further: "Tbe
Mexicans could easily repeat tbe Co
lumbus massacre here, on a much
larger scale."
m
Orlslers Are Boss. i
Mr. ana Mra, C. B. CrUler have re
turned from Los Aageles and other
CaUtorata points where they spent
the winter,
Money for Completion of
the Modoc Point Project
WASHINGTON, D. C, March 24, penses of two members ot the trlbet
Amendments made to the Indian ap-t"ho are in Washington to look after.
propriation b, by tbe senate com-"- , wfi fcy u,; . -
mlttee'on Indian affaire have increas-bm for 0rwm indiana aV Jt new? "
ed tbe sum to be received by the Che-1 Btand8 are theae: , J
mawa school at Salem, ..Ore., from, por expenses of Klamath ageaey.r A, "2
. ....... l. . aa l..nn- m nt... on.l-. ii-'S' V Ti.
liu nun tt iixh him 'inn IB iia. in.uuu lur naiiu buiuiu jbbhwj.i..
300 above the original
motes.
flthnr new Items
nto committee are as follews: pletlon o( The .Modoe fofrpmM. 'j
Bridge over Williamson .jlver, system, on the Klaato;MarMif' ,.
-fKlamath reservation, f'3,000, govern- and an qutapriaywa '"J1?-
meat to be reimbursed from Indian the umitoi coK-oiaaavswwtss-sw n
fund.. W,MMlMy&& '
Ob thousand dollars from tribal carry oute4.plM:w:isVI ,
rrtind. of the Klamths to pay ex-, rlgat,ion iQ&ms& : 7a .
bureau estl-j $4,000; tor Grande RoaaMltt-lM
,letz, 14,000, uud for wbui&m,
added by the sen-, 000, TUere u aiso mv.uw Ti "-,sai.-
" . r.
&.,
t,h ;-
