'FINANCIAL EDITION
jjSTRA?
NIGHT
EXTRA
&&0er
vP
V
NIGHT
EXTRA
1
ituenmg
v
vjs2
W- I IIS- IS
VOL. III. NO. 76
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, DECEMBEll 11, 1916
CnrinianT. 1010. t in PcsLto LtMts Court!.
PRICE ONE CENT
T . BMPSk Sf.
c
at,
G
MARKET STREET
I i hi i ilium ii nl m im iraifl "iiiiirr ii-,.
BHf'" 3m- ; "Se vSmmImbb 4' jST Z qi
W!S OOSPfi
5HJaH'fr H -, ;
This week opens the rush period for the drivers nnd helpers of tho
delivery wnjrons for the big stores. This wn3 a scene photographed in
the heart of the shopping district today, where mountains of bundles
wero piled up awaiting delivery to those who were thoughtful enough
to do their shopping early.
GREECE HOVERS
ON WAR-BRINK
'Allies' Envoys Remove Be
longings and Order Na
tionals to Leave
GERMANS PLAN DRIVE
LONDON, Dec. 11.
A report from Athens this afternoon
states that the ultimatum which the
Allied Governments will present to he
' Greek Government tomorrow will de
'raand: Virst Complete disarmament of the
Creek army.
Second Full control of the postal
and telegraph services in Greece.
Third That all railway lines .'and
Jlllng stock be turned over to the
Allied military authorities.
LONDON, Dec. 11.
A revolution has broken out in the
crelades group of Greek island, says a
dispatch from Salonlca. The Cyclades
Islands lie near Delos, in the Aegean
Set.
MILAN, Dec. 11 Special dispatches to
the Corrlere della Sera tell how In a publlo
utterance telegraphed to the Cologne Volks
Mltung, M Iladoslavofr, the Bulgarian Pre.
nler, affirms that Field Marshal von Illn
denburg has resolved to make a clean sweep
of the situation In the Balkans straight
"rby concentrating alt available German.
Bulgsr and Turkish forces against General
Strrsll at Salonlca, so as to link up the,
firperlal armies with King Constantino's
feris within a period, as Is hoped, of not
more than six weeks. During this period tho
Greeks reckon that passive resistance can
opposed to the Allied blockade.
The embarkation of tho numerous Ital-
colony has now been completed
it Piraeus. The Home Government, how
wr, has ordered the Italian Minister to
tick to his post.
LONDON, Dec. 11. neuter's Athens cor
'WDondent says1
"It Is understood on reliable authority
ait n Entente ultimatum will be pre
M to Oreece tomorrow.
"Tho British and Russian Ministers have
"o an audience with the King nnd sub
JtJjUy the King summoned the Amerl-
Minister Tho personal baggage of tho
teatt diplomatists haa been sent to
,,T! Mme correspondent, telegraphing
""?, afternoon, says:
wane the dreek Government announces
Cealhuua 00 raf.glght, Csliuan bl
THE WEATHER
FOItEOAST
iuT PhUa4elphft and iMnltv Unset
l, t1d Uaht,l' warmer tonight, idlh
ejoalv rain; Tuesday partly cloudu. telth
In the afternoon and night; mod-
..jLa,t t0 tou"t Vfndt Naming eest
er'V Tuesday. '
LKM1TII OF IMY
J IS m. I Moon rises. . 629 p.m.
t3t SI m L&taan uulhi 1 la m m
"? MIS
u"JWiBE KrVKK TIDK CHANOKS
m, . wt"TNUT STHKBT
2 'Mil? VSn ,.1Ub '
T!UPrnivimw ... ....
fft - .avft tl CmIVII 1IUUU
I IIOUU
ailSHHSW
LlL
Don't Fail to Read "BEYOND THE GR.EAT OBL1YON,'? the Sequel
BEGINS TO GROAN UNDER WEIGHT OF CHRISTMAS PACKAGES
- J
...AcUikUiL(lJ
WOULD GIVE JOB
TO LEAGUE ISLAND
Secretary Daniels Asks
That Yard Be Equipped
for Speedy Work
BATTLE CRUISER PROBLEM
ttu a Staff Correspendrnt
WASHINaTO.V. Dec. 11. Socretarj of
tho N'ay Daniels, testifying beforo tho
House .N'mnI Affnlr) Committee today, de
clared that the Philadelphia Navy Yard
should bo equipped for tho construction of
two llrat-clas.1 battleships at ono time He
said that Government jnnla should he In
n position to build art least half the naval
program Mr Daniels said
For a month wo have been sneatlng
blood over the battlo cruisers Tho
prhato yards aro so confident tint wo
can't build them for ourselves that thoy
say vie must como to their terms They
are nlwavg opposed to any ihango In
tho tpe of shipt and Just now. with
so much private work, they are not at
nil anxious to tackle these big battle
cruisers However, I haven't the least
doubt that we could place tho other
two In private jurds at once
When Chairman Padgett inked the Sec
retary which of tho Government yards ho
would equip for blK ship construction, and
he said Philadelphia, Inquiry was made as
to whether there would not lie trouble In
getting the labor necessary there
The Secretary said that recently some
of the men had left the Government yards
to enter private employment, because tho
Government has an eight-hour day, while
the private yards are paying lime and a
halt and working twelve hours
NEGROES MAKE BRUTAL
ATTACK ON DEAF MUTE
Dash Acid Into His Eyes, Beat
and Rob Him and Throw
Him Into Creek
A deaf mute was attacked early today
by two negro bandits, who dashed carbolic
acid Into his. face, beat him severely, robbed
him of 1100 and threw him Into Pennypack
Creek from the lonely Welsh road bridge,
Ilolmesburg. He probably will lose the
sight of one eve.
The victim, believed to be named Ostro
wlU, was dragged from the water shortly
after midnight by Detective Fesmler. of the
Tacony station, who a attracted by
splashing. After having his wounds and
burns treated at the Fran-ford Hospital, he
told his story to Lieutenant of Detectives
Wood at City Hall, through an Interpreter,
Policeman William Itobb He was under
stood with difficulty, as he Is Illiterate and
Is not a master of the sign language.'
Detectives learned through the Interpreter
that as he was crossing the bridge he was
held up by two negroes armed with a pis
tol and a bottle When he showed fight
they threw acid Into bis face, rifled his
pockets and, nflef beating hjm, threw hlra
Into the creek. He U a Brooklyn tinsmith
with a wife and three children and came
here to look for work.
The Detective Bureau communicated with
the Brooklyn police and put men on the,
trail of the bandits An empty bottle that
contained acid was found pn the bridge.
Dr John WanamaVer. d. police surgeon,
said that the fall Into the water saved the
victim from being blinded instantly A"
It U one eye was bo badly burned that It
Is believed It will ecome blind
RUMANIANS HIT
BACK; RETAKE
LOST DEFENSES
Recapture Ploesci - Mizilu
Positions in Vigorous
Counter-Attacks
BERLIN CLAIMS CAINS
PlTrnOGIlAl). Dec. II
lty vlRornus enuntrr-nttneks Rumanian
forces ihivp won Imck positions along the
high' mad from Ploesctl to Mlsllii, which
they lost to the enemy on Hilurday, today's
omclat stntement asserted
tTh Teutonic nltacks of Saturday
pressed the Rumanians back, but early
Sunday the numanlans restored them
selves after vigorous offensives The battle
along this line Is still In progress.
In Dobmdji the statement, detailed ,rj
clprocnl tiring along the Danube
Southeast of the Pomorjana region and
around tho village of Jtscpchovka, an
enemy &ffenslvo was repulsed by fire, the
rlatement said' detailing operations along
the Carpathian front In the region of
Vnleputna and also In the vnlle) of the
Trotush the cnemj offered stubborn re-
rls'ance to the Russian offensive, meeting
the Ilusslan ndvailco with a violent flreMnd
frequent counter-attacks, which were un
successful The mountains along the whole front
aro deep In snow nnd the frost Is heavi
LONDON, Dec 11
Tho resistance of the retreating Itu
manlins has stiffened nnd violent fighting
Is In progress between Ploesci and Iitueu
Dispatches from the Uumanlan front today
Indlcited that the Itumanlins have again
been re-enforced l)J Russians
Two Austro-tSerman squidrons have been
annihilated by the Rumanians In battles
east of t'loesetl, according to a wireless dis
patch from Potrograd today It adds that
the Teutonic forces In eastern "U'allachla
have been driven back several kilometers
Detachments of German allies tint
Continued on 1'sse I'lrM. Column rife
HIGH SCHOOL PUPILS
RUN AWAY AND WED
Effort at Secrecy Fails at Boy's
Mother's Quizzing Called
From Classes
Tho runaw ay marriage of two h gh school,
students was discovered today tnrougn woru
from Baltimore John c llallev. twenty
years old. of SMJ North Thlrty-thlrd street,
and Gladvs II Griffiths, eighteen, of 3718
North Nineteenth street, are tne newiy.
weds Bailey is a senior at Northeast
High School; his wife Is a Junior at Wil
liam Penn High School Some time on
Saturday they ran away to Baltimore, got
a marriage license and were married
They stayed In Baltimore only long
enough to be marrled.Vjind then came quietly
back to Philadelphia without saving a
word to any one. Sunday and this morning
they spent as usual, and both went oft to
their schools, their parents suspecting noth
ng Bailey was called from school this
afternoon by his mother, Mrs J. Iteese
Ilalley, who had learned through the news
papers of the marriage.
She had heangnothng of It. and refused
at first to believe It was true The son.
called from class, hurried home He de
nled for a long time that he had been mar
ried, but Mrs- Bailey persisted, and at last
h admitted It He refused to tell any de
tails, however
The pew Mrs, Bailey Is said to be a
daughter of James A Griffiths, a manu.
facturer of boiler appliances, at 1117 But
tonvvood street This was the statement by
a Mrs. Katherlne O'Brien, of T-i North
Nineteenth street, where the girl and her
CootlaoeJ ea Past Twe. Celsius Tb-n
LLOYD GEORGE
STIRSENGLAND
WITH NEW LIFE
Democracy's Reply to Autoc
racy's Challenge Seen
in Present Regime
MEANS FIGHT TO FINISH
LONDON Dec It
The energizing forio of "Mod George-
maglo touch has wllhtn tlw ilas elec
trified tho Urltlsh untlon
While the war dictator was todty forced
to his bed with n chill brought on l iv
fortnight of twenty-hour working diir.
Ijndou was In a fever of enthuslism for
new ordM- That the most cursed and
most respected t!gurr In the last lulf cen
tury of Urltlsh p itltlcM Is to have tho full
force of the lirltjth nation behind him In
whatever he does became evident today
Not only tho press of tho nation, but
tho faces of every man, woman and street
urchin lellected the fact
The sccmlngl) Impossible has been nc
ompllshml the hard shell of Urltlsh con
servatism has been cracked Veneration
for precedent and tho thing which 'In
done" has gone Into the dlncnrd. h'or tho
first time since August I, 1911. John Hull
Is looking forward not stumbling along
with his glance back over his shoulder.
While the German ir-s Is referring with
contempt to the new llrltlah "dictators,"
I Englishmen even staunch conservatives of
the Nor.hcllffe tvpe nre visualizing the
I ew development as ilcniocrac) h greatest
triumph of the centur)
Moreover, It Is apparent that I.loyd
George Is no man s man but his own
Chatgo of newspapers antagonistic to the
Wejshmnn that he was the mere tool of
I.ord Northcllffe hive been effectually dis
sipated by l.lovd George's chnlco of two
men In his ministry who have been par
ticularly under the flru of the Northcllffe
newspapers Arthur J Ilalfour and lAinl
Robert Cecil
In the rise of l.lovd George to the
supremo command the Urltlsh people see n
t onllnued on I'ase Hlcht, Column Una
SIX INJURED IN PANIC
AS FIRE SWEEPS CAR
Women Shoppers Jump From
Windows of Blazing Train
Near Gloucester
Six persons were Injured and panic fol
lowed when Are started on the Glassboro
CxpreiK of the Pennsylvania Railroad's
electric line today as It sped Into the sta
tion at Gloucester ut 9 3S o'clock
The blaze was discovered In the lava
tory when the train, which consisted of
three coaches and an express car, ap
proached Gloucester Women Jumped to
their feet and broke windows with their
fjsts Their first thoughts were of the
children, and they passed them through
the broken windows as the car reached the
station The women followed, leaving all
their belonging' behind. The Injured are;
JlltS MAIIY TYJ.EIt,
Pltmsn Orove, cuts on
una ana nuuiuer
HUB JOSh-I'l! SMITH. VVmHIII.. cuts snd
bruls on arm. .
11118 NBT.L1E FLINT. South flloueeater, cuts
on srms and .
MRS HI.JZAUtmi VEACJEH, OUstboro. outs
on left Ir
HUH JANK CAHTKH. Tborafsre. outs bead.
legs and arms.
LlIHH HAIinr ELI NO-It Wtstvljle. cuts on
arma ana otsa
The blazing tsar, which was next 'o the
baggage coach, was filled with men. women
and children, many of whom were on, the
way to Philadelphia to dcr Christinas shop
ping. The train crew trje4 to quiet them,
but their efforts were In vain. While some
endeavored to be calm, the first crash of
glass around them to action as the flames
crept nearer Policemen Harvey and
Blackburn carried several wpmen from
the car after they had fainted from fright
The Injured passengers were attended by
Dr U p Haley and Dr U D Lapp, of
Gloucester
QUICK
SHORT CIRCUIT CAUSES P. R. T. EXPLOSION
Short circuit of n IiIkIi tentlon cable of tlie P. H. T. system nt
Twelfth nntl Spring Garden streets thli nfternoon caused nn cxptoMoii
tltnt Mtot n towet of flnme nnd wntcr Into the nlr for twenty minutes,
IjIcw the top off n ttolley pole nnd btoke sevetal windows lit the
vicinity.
LONDON ADVANCES WAR RISK INSURANCE
NEW YOllK, Dec. 1 1. London hits ndvanced mtcn on war llslt
liumnnee ftolu five to ten per cent foi transatlantic nnd dood Hope
imnlncsB. X'Ltccn per cent wns naked on n sltlpmcnt to Havre.
COTTON BREAKS BADLY ON GOVERNMENT'S CROP ESTIMATE
NKW YOHK, Dec. 11. A sfnsntlonnl hrcnlt accuiteu In tus
pliers tut . Cticu today following tho nitbllcntlon of the Qovcinhtcut's
citlmnlo of the ciop for the Inst Benson. Active positions went oft
more than $5 n bale.
AUAMSON ACT TEST IN SUPREME COURT JANUARY 8
WASHINGTON", Dec. It In roipon'e to dcninmls for early decision In tho rail
road rnie brought to tct the Ailnmaon eight hour dnv law. tho Huprcmo Court to
ilav advanced the enso for argument on .Inumirv S Tho (.Juvcrnmunt null ngnllint
tho Missouri. Oklahoma nnd tlttlf Itnllvvnv t'ampnny. tho case selected o tet tho
law. will govern nil rnv brought li tho railroad i nil over tho country to prevent
tho enforcement of tho law. Tho Tcilem! District Courts In Mlwourl held that tho
law was uncnitMltutlmml nml enjoined Itt enforcement. Itepresontntlvc of the
railroad have stipulated that no effort shall be matte to enforce the penal provisions
of the law or to force further teiti In the couits. petidliiK tho decision In thin case.
FRENCH DESTROYER WRECKED IN COLLISION
IlKHMN, Dec it German newspapers say that the Trench dostrover Yntngnn.
sunk bv collision with n Itrltlih trnnoport. Is the tlfth Trench ilcMrnver lost In this
way during the win
RECKLESS AUTO DRIVING MUST END, WILSON SAYS
Dlicctor vVllson.f tho Department of Tubllo H.ifoty. inaila clear his position
regarding violators of tho cIIj'h niilomolillo regulations T.heugjia drclnreil todaj'
that ho lnl nsked tho Magistrates to eooperato with the Dopnrtment of rnbllc
Safely In enforcing tho rerttllatlons "I am Just ns busy ns any mnn In Philadelphia
and mv ntitnmohllo can get mo ntivvvhcrc without cnd-yigcrlng tho lives of jiodcs
trltns Automobile owners who nro laboring under tho Impression that tho ordinary
pedestrians have no right to the use of tho streets will find ho Is mnlilng n big
mistake In tho futurn This reckless driving has got to bo Htopped."
FRENCH BRING DOWN FOUR TEUTON PLANES
1'AItIH, Dec. II Tour German ncioplunes wore brought down Sunday south
of the Homme There was Intermittent cannonading esterda' In this Section, tho
olllclnl statement announced today.
2D CIVILIANS KILLED DY ALLIED PLANES, BERLIN SAYS
UUItLlN'. Dec. 11 .-Ten men, twclvo women und aoveu children, nil civilians.
In Kronch und llelglnu territory occupied by tho Germans were killed by Allied aero
plan flro. durlngKovembor, tho I'ress liurcnu nnnounced today. J-"ortyjnen nnd
thirty two children wero wounded Tho number of Trench anil 'Ilclglnn clvillnns
thus killed Is ilbw 2173 slnco September. 10IS
EGG PRICES RISE HERE AS THEY FALL IN NEW YORK
Whllo New York egg prices mo fulling, Thllndolphlaeggs nro going higher
and higher. Thcro wero advances of two cents n dozen on wholos.ilo storage eggs
and ono cent on fresh egga today, and dcnlcra opcct anothor ndvanco tomorrow.
Scarcity of eggs npil big demnnd mo given as tho cause for tho advanco. Cold
storago eggs sold wholesale at thlrtj threo cents today, us against thirty-one cents
on Sij.turd.ty. Iresh eggH brought forty-two cents, compared with forty ono centH
on Saturdny. llutter has risen from thirty seven cents on Saturday to thirty eight
and cinehnlf cents tndav.
U. S. TO DECIDE U-UOAT STAND THIS WEEK
WASHINGTON. Dec. 11 The last of tho evldento upon which tho Tidied,
Staled will base Its futurn nttltude toward Germany In IhoT suhmmlno Issue Is ex
pected hero bv midweek. After that, It was Indicated todny, tho Statu Department
would Bturt framing a nolo nsUtug Germnny for a nharp dcllnltlon of what her
submarine pledges nro worth.
PAY INCREASE FOR GOVERNMENT EMPLOYES
WASHINGTON, Dec. 11. Tho first definite and oltlclal stop by Congress as a
result of the high cost of living wuh taken today, when tho Appropriations Com
mlttco recommended sliding Inci eases of from llvo to ten per cent for nil Govern
ment department emplojos, tho Incronsea to remain In effect nt least ono enr. Tho
increases were urged In the annual legislative, executive nnd judicinl appropriation
bill carrying J0.479.66S 70
BILL PROPOSES 12 1-2 PER CENT MUNITIONS TAX
WASHINGTON. Dec. 11. Twelve nnd a half per cent tnx nn yearly profits cm
munition contracts Is sought for tho Government in a bill introduced In the Sennto
by Senator Curtis, of Kansas, today Tho bill provides for excise tax on luoflts
beginning January 1, tho tax to be lifted ono junr after the end of the present
Imropeau war, ( ,
NEW BANK FOR WEST PHILADELPHIA
Another bank has been organized In West Philadelphia, It was learned today
that the organization of tho Drovers nnd Merchants' Hank has been completed and
the opening at 3016 Market street will take place shortly. Tho capital of tho new
bank will be J100.000 The ofllcers aie Joseph J. Martin, of D. It. Martin & Co,
president: Frank T. Clark nnd Charles W. Ilaldeman, vice presidents; Hrnest II
Tattoo, cashier.
FOUR FIREMEN KILLED IN 175,000 TOLEDO BLAZE
TOI.KDO, O, Dec. II. Tour firemen were killed nnd property loss of 1175,000
was the result today of a fire which swept "wholesale row." The business blocks
occupied by the Paddock Merchandise Company nnd the Wlcltmjer Harness store
were destroyed
JONES & LAUGIILIN MEN TO GET 10 PER CENT MORE
riTTSHUItGII. Deo. H, Approximately 13,000 emploes of tho Jones &
Laughlln Steel Company will receive a ten per cent wage Increase December 15.
Men working by the day and tonnuge employes are affected.
NOVEMBER TAX COLLECTIONS SHOW A SLIGHT DECREASE
Tax collections during November, according tq the statement of Iteceher of
Taxes W. Treeland Kendrlok, amounted to (399.716 OS, as compared with Jl.035,057
received during the corresponding month last year. The total receipts of the de
partment during the first eleven months of the year aggregate 132,616,757, Including
114,788,011 Pa'd lit olty taxes and $8,186,121 In school taxes. The collections during
the same period In 1816 amounted to (31,440,918, of which sum 114,314,503 was on
account of city txe and 17,410,6(7 school taxes.
BREAD RIOT IN DETROIT
DETROIT, Mich , Dec. 11 Because Itlchard Plocento, proprietor of a, restau
rant, and his wtfe bought three loaves of bread in defiance of a neighborhood boy
cott they -were attacked by an Infuriated mob of 2000 men and women and wero
rescued by policemen with difficult). Police arrived at the scene of the riot Just
after the mob had brokeu down the barred door and kicked in a plate-glass window
of an electrical shop, where Plocento and his wife had sought safety..
to "The Vac&nt
NEWS
World," on Page
HUGE SWINDLE '
EXPOSED HERE;
THREE ARRESTS
$2,500,000 Fraud Alleged
as One" of Three
Schemes
LEADERS IN PLAN -TO
BE SURRENDERED
Gas and Electric Company
Said to Have Widows and
Poor as Victims
MANY CITIES AFFECTED
Three Already Indicted in Al
leged Typicnl "J. Rufus"
Plnn of Finnncing
bT-ZZS&i
CLAWSQN BACHMAN
Former president of the Bay Stntd
Mutual Life Insurnnco Company,
snld to bo tho "Wnlllncford" of tho.
nllcgcd $2,500,000 International Gas ,
swindle.
United States postal Inspectors today un
earthed three alleRed swindles In Phils.
delphlai ono of which Ii said to Involve
:, 500, 000, and to be ono of tho bltcest
and most flagrant of Its kind over de
tected In Pennsylvania '
In 'two minor nlleired swindles three
nrrest:i bnva been made Those arrested
wcie
nmnon puuttvjian iNCASTisn. of oti
Pulaikt avenue. mnilr of thn Lancsstsr
llealty Company -too c'nettnut street.
AI.IIKItT KANUAHTMI of 'JUT North Tftlf
trench slrerc. his liruther
Timer IC IUHi:CKi:il commtulon merchant.
ut tOT Vine strett.
United Htutes deputy marshals are
searching for Claw son Ilachman, of 803
I'att Johnson street, Oermnntown,a for
whom u warrant has been Issued In con.
nectlon with the alleged JI. 600, 000 swindle.
A search was made of his home today,
and It was learned that he was In Htvr
York Ills counsel promised to surrender
him
The !". 600,000 scheme, according to Fed
oral offlclils. Is similar In many respects to
the fur-famed International , Lumber and
Development Company swindle, and Involves
the operations of the International Cas and
Klectrlc Company, and underlying concerns,
for a period of several years The company
went Into the hands of a receiver In Decern
her. 10 IB
In automobiles, and escorted by City Hall
detectives, I'ostal Inspector Frank Wllbus
Hmlth started out to round up the allege'
swindlers, who already have been Indlc.t'
by the Federal Grand Jury, The round,
promises to be tho most sensational '
spectacular ever undertaken by postal ,
spectors In this city
It will take several days to get all the
men into custody, It was said.
4
CALLED "J RUFUS "
The first stop made by the Federal of
fleers was at the home of Clawson llach
man, at 602 Uast Johnson street, Oerman
town. Ilachman, a former president of the
Day .State Mutual Life Insurance Company,
Is said by inspectors to have been the
Ttufua AValllngford" or the alleged 3,S(C
000 Internationa) (lag swindle ' r
AltltKSTS MADU
After leaving the Pachman home the
Inspectors arrested Ueorge I'rettymart Lan
caster, at 4SI1 I'ulaskl avenue, who. with
his father, A Ml I wood Lancaster, and AU
bert Ianeaster. a brother has been Indicted
for using the malls to defraud In an alleged
real estate swindle said to involve llOO.vOd,
The brother. Albert, also was arretted.
The Lancastera operate the Lancaster
Itvalty Company at 400 Chestnut street.
The Federal officers then arrested Mf
K Klsecker, a wholesale commission me
chant, at 107 Vine street, accused of opera
In a fraud Mheme la riot less than ts
States.
The International das and K1mjM
scheme, according to postal Inspectors, -assumed
gigantic proportions
The Investigations of the affairs al th
company lasted more than a year It WW
conducted by Postal Inspector Smith, a
signed to the case by Chief 1'osta.l IrwpeaMW
James T Cortelyou
Mr Smith said that the alleged buIikU-;
' 'JIM
Conlluunl ea ! Six. l.'slawa tte
13 of tW$ lmu&
