' -: ':"- ' " ' ': ." "V; ~-v".?s. .;- . - -<: -- ; -wprWKv. ?> ; * s*.< ,^ *.---< . . .- - ' ....*. ?
* ' ' ' - ' * ? " * : '. Rain
or snow tonight, probably A. A ^ ^ a^^\ Ftotn PT699 to Hplttt
Tomorrow ^ ,. " if
1 ft r nP SfllTfli/iTTiT(Y ^mTW'n m w,<Afn<*?"
%P/ I wr MJ l|[||||||l - I r| I *=* i
* |^ / ^ AiVI I** 4IAA . A? vil
? I y , I w /I r / ^ Ssm !?*? amlMtaa. Month of Kwmhr,
^ ^ V- v/ tan. Mir Itmsa ?JST| tsstiT. IMA
No. 29,529. WASHINGTON, D. p., MONDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1916.?TWENTY PAGES. ZZZZ ONE CENT.
SW REUSE
FOR ONEYEAR ONLY
U. S. Employes Not to Benefit
Permanently From Raise Carried
in Legislative Bill.
UNDER $1,800 AFFECTED
!
I
Ten per cent increases for government
employes at less than $1,200 a
year and ? per cent increases for government
employes between $1,200 and |
$1,800?this to take place for one year
only, between July 1, 1917, and June
30, 1918. This is the long-expected salary
raise for government clerks, recommended
today by the appropriations
committee, which embodied the neces
sary legislation in the legislative, executive
and judicial appropriation bill j
reported to the House.
The iecoinmondation covers all em-}
ployes up to the $1,800 grade, provided i
lor in that inc sure, hut specifically (
omits the employes at the Capitol, including
clerks and aius iu senates j
anu members of the House.
The recommendation was approved j
last week by the subcommittee headed |
by Kepiesentative Bvrns of Tennessee. }
, and laid before the full committee, |
which met today in closed session.
!t had been expected by many employes
of the government that the increases
would be greater, but the committee
recommended legislation it is
positive it can get through the House.
As it is. there are indications of a
stern fight on the floor from members
who automatically oppose all increases
of every sort.
Increased Hours Voted Down.
After considering several other proposals.
the committee voted solidly to
adopt Representative Byrn's horizontal
raise on Ihe tasis announced. At the
same time Representative Borland endeavored
to inject into the bill his proposal
of last year?namely, thai the i
hours of ce.ks be increased to offset !
the .?lse in pay. After some discussion.
Represents i e Bonand y as voted j
u6wn by a substantial majority.
As the legislative bill now stands on ;
the calendar of the House, it carries the
horizontal percentage increase of 10 per
cent and 5 per cent for the classes mentioned.
and also makes several individual
increases. It raises the small pay of ;
several messengers and minor clerks, and
puts those employes on an increased
basis permanently. The latter employes,
it is explained, will also get the 10 per
ceni intTcaoea ior ine nscai year iyi3. j
and then when returned to the regular
scale of pay will receive the specific increase
granted in the boclv of the bill.
Capitol Employes Barred.
The increased pay does not cover the ;
employes at the Capitol. These are specifically
omitted, but it does cover em- 1
ployss at the Library of Congress and ,
the Botanic Garde'n. If does not cover )
the postal employes in the field. They '
are covered in a separate appropria- ,
tion bill. Nor does it cover agricul- (
tural department employes. These are ,
provided for in a separate bill.
Employes affected are in the library, '
Botanic Gardens, executive office at the
White House, civil service commission. J
Department of tSate. Treasury and ,
War departments, public buildings and '
grounds office, including the employes
assigned to the care of the State, War
and Navy building. Navy Department,
interior Department, including the pension
and Idian bureau, patent office,
land office, etc.; Post Office Department I
(clerical assistants and not the postal j
service employes throughout the coun- j
try). Department of Justice, Depait- j
ment of Commerce. D partmcnt of j
t-anor and employes o: ir.e judicial d - j
paitment. including employ*.-? or L'nue.l j
S.ales court?.
BUI Carries $39,479,635.75.
The amount carried in the bill, covering
the legislative, executive and judicial
blanches of the government and
providing salaries, from the President s
down to mesenger boys, is $:J9.47D.75.
This is less than the estimates
by $'J,Z87,390.70. but is $.*i*Jl,0G."?.50 more
than was provided for the present year, j
The chief differences between the estimates
and the proposed appropriations
are found as follows:
House of Representatives, where $3'i.less
than estimated for is carried
in the bill, the number of annual employes
being reduced through the lump
sum for such expenditures being smaller.
bureau of efficiency. $ 17,000 less
than asked for; civil service commission,
Sl.l.ooo less: .State Department.
1*88: Treasury epartment, $74,o:m?
less; mints and assav offices. *U
less; Navy Department. ?7-S.?mh? less; Interior
Department. $.*ar; less: Post
OfTce Depart r?? :it S'J'-.'tOo 'ess; Department
of Jus:, he * 1.>.?> ? less. Department
of Commerce, xnv.mmmi less; Department
of i-a'"or. ?mm less; judi- .
era!. less. In the Interior Dp- {
artment. an i-crease of clerks from}
to lJfVJ was asked for a n! not
granted; the hurea i of ed cation asked
for large sums to begin new lnvestiga- j
tions and was d'nied.
The Department of Commerce asked ?
for authority and money to begin activities
in the further development of
? American trade abroad, but did not get
all it asked for. The department asked
for 1230.'Jift* for salaries in the bureau i
of foreign and dom?s*ic commerce, and !
received $154.12??. This however, is an j
Increase of nearly $25,000 over the cui - i
rent act. and allows for 115 salaries in
place of ninety-five, as at present. Secretary
Redfield's estimate of $250,tH*>
for use in developing: commerce abroad
w. s cut to $125,000. as at present.
Effort to Meet Needs.
The differences between the bill reported
today and the estimates, and
the current act are not so important,
it was explained by a member of the
committee, as they appear on paper.
In a word, the committee has endeavored
to give money amply for the existing
activities and needs of the departments
under their jurisdiction, and
have also made recommendation for
certain increased appropriations. All
of these increases are pointed out in
the report, as shown below. Additional
clerks are allowed in the office
of the auditor for the War Depart-j
ment; new employes are allowed the
bureau of standards, and the new federal
farm loan bureau is given an increase
of $100 000. making its total
$$00,000 instead of $200,000 as in the
current act.
There are no wholesale reductions.
The post office, which has been undergoing
a steady house cleaning for several
years past, will see a further reduction
of clerks, and the pension office
force has been reduced by 23.
S There are increases in the force under
the commissioner of internal revenue,
and in other bureaus of the Treasury.
There are other slight increases in
other departments, but in no department
is there any sudden and unexoected
change in any direction. The
hill s4tm? to have taken care of the,
(Continued on Nineteenth Page.)
r
SI&'V , r hi V:
TRADE PROBLEMS '
UNDER DISCUSSION
Southern Commercial Congress
to Consider International
Reconstruction.
PROMINENT MEN TO SPEAK
I
By tho Associated Tress.
NORFOLK. Ya.. December 11.?The <
Southern Commercial Congress began <
its eighth annual convention here to- j
day with what officials said was the <
largest attendance in its history. This ;
unusual outpouring of representative
men from not only the sixteen southern <
commonwealths which the congress)'
embraces, but from many other states
as well, was attributed to the importance
which generally is attached
to the subject selected for discussion?
international reconstruction.
Organizations which have been called (
to meet with the congress include the
House of Southern Governors, the
Southern Cotton Congress, the Organization
of Southern Commercial Secretaries.
the Women's Auxiliary of the
Southern Commercial Congress, the National
Association of Commerce of
Agriculture, the American commission !
on agricultural organization, a confer-;:
ence on agricultural immigration and j
labor, called by Secretary of Labor '
Wilson, and conference on commercial J
education in relation to foreign and
domestic commerce.
Meeting of Changed Conditions. j
In calling the convention to order l
this morning Senator Fletcher of j
Florida, president of the congress, out- \
lined some of th.e steps which have been
tak^n in this country to meet the 1
changed world conditions after the
European war ends, and other speakers
today laid stress on not only what has
been done, but what must be done if
the L'nited States is to play its full 1
part in the rebuilding of Europe and j
the rearranging of the commerce of ,
the world.
Senator Fletcher told the congress t
that the federal farm loan act and the ,
laws to prevent rate discrimination, .
blacklisting: and the dumping of cheap
foreigm products in this country would (
aid planters and manufacturers during
the period of reconstruction. He also f
asserted that the shipping and Webb j
bills before Congress would be im- ?
portant factors* the one providing ships s
to carry commerce and the other per- f
mitting American exporters to^combine
to secure trade. 1
The senator urged that the country t
immediately turn its attention to es- j
tablishing fuller business relations with j s
the neutral countries, and declared that; r
the nation's greatest opportunity now | t
was in the Datin American countries i?
and China. ! t
The opening session today was partly
given over to welcoming exercises, the j 1
delegates being greeted by Gov. Stuart i ?
!>t Virginia and Mayor Wyndham R. J
wayo of Norfolk. Dr. Clarence J. *
Iteens. director general of the congress. J
responded. Others speakers at today's
sessions were to be John Barrdtt, J
director general of the Pen-American *
Union; the controller of the currency, {
John Skelton Williams; Gov. O'Neil of !
Alabama; Senators Randell/of Louisiana j1
and Overman of North Carolina; W. P.
Q. Harding of the federal reserve board
and Representative Small of North
Carolina.
Should Be Beady When War Ends.
Controller Williams in his address
declared that the United States should |
prepare itself for defense against all).
corners and be ready when the Eu-jj
ropean war ends to finance and assist j <
the world liberally and help the j*
stricken nations toward recovery. Thial<
country should realise, he said, tliat j ^
the enormous and unprecedented wealth j ]
being: accumulated here "will tempt the \
gree 1 of all foreign governments," <
while the maintenance of neutrality
and enforcement of international law }
"will arouse j the wrath of all com-j ]
balants." 4 L
Mr. Williams said that even if all of I \
the belligerents continue the suspen-j;
sion of specie payments after peace is IJ
declared they must continue to trade | \
here on the system of bai ter and ex- .
change of commodities because they \
will be compelled to have American '
products.
Street and Naval Parades. \
A street parade of United States sail- ]
ors and marines, the Virginia Military \
Institute Cadet Corps, Boy Scouts and !
school children was to be held this aft- I 1
ernoon, and tonight the House of South- j'
ern Governors will hold its session, with j \
Gov. Manning of South Carolina pre- j '
siding.
A naval parade in Hampton roads has : j
been arranged for Wednesday after- j,
noon, when Secretary of the Navy ?>an- .
iels is to come here to address the con- j
g. ess. Two score warsh.ps, including j
almost every t\pe f|Oin the biggest I
Jreadnaught to submarines and fleet .
tenders, are anchored in the roadstead. !
In Norfolk harbor are mobilized the 1
ships of the coast and geodetic survey,
the bureau of navigation, the bureau \ ,
of fisheries and the lighthouse service ; ,
These vessels Include the Roosevelt, j
th** ship on which Rear Admiral Peary ;
made his last trip to the arctic.
Entertain ments planned include a
Visit to the Norfolk navy vard. an ove- I
ter roast at Cape Henry, where former
Assistant Secretary of War Henry D. j
Breckinridge will speak tomorrow on
"interpreting Fort Storey as a Part of |
the Scheme of National Defense." Wednesday
evening a dinner will be tendered
cabinet officials and other guests
of the congress.
MANY CIVILIANS KILLED
BY FELLOW-COUNTRYMEN
BERLIN. December 11. by wireless to'
Sayvilie, N. V.?Of the native civilian-1
population in the French and Belgian!'
districts occupied by the Germans, ten i
men, twelve women and seven children !
were killed in the month of November )
by artillery fire or bombs dropped by ,
airplanes of the entente allies, accord- 1
ing to the Overseas News Agency.
In the same month forty men and
thirty-two children were wounded.
Thus the number of victims of their
own countrymen, the news aagenc.v
says, has been increased to 2,473 since
September. 1915.
SAY IB CONGRESS.
t Senate:
Met noon.
Began consideration of the
; immigration toll! In executive sesI
sion.
Ifnaaei
j Met at noon.
Secretary Daniels testified be!
fore the naval committee.
i. 0
Z ~ I '
R. N. HARPER TOLD
OF APPOINTMEN1
f
Banker Notified Personally b>
McCormick He Is to Be
Inaugural Chairman.
IS TO GIVE ALL OF HIS TIME
Official announcement was made toflay
that Robert X. Harper, presidenl
of the District National Bank, has beer
appointed chairman of the inaugura
committee. The appointment of Mr
Harper has been forecast in official circles
for several weeks, and it was generally
understood throughout the cits
that the honor would be given to Mr
Harper in recognition of many years
devoted service to the democratic
party.
The official announcement was made
by John F. Costello. democratic national
committeeman for the District ol
Columbia. on whose recommendation tc
the national committee the appointment
was made, and by Robert W
Wool ley, who was in charge campaign
publicity and who Is now in charge ol
the democratic headquarters in Washington.
These officials had been notified
by telephone direct from Vanec
McCormick. the national chairman, in
Harrisburg. Pa., to whom the privilege
of making the inaugural chairman appointment
had been delegated several
weeks ago by President Wilson.
The official announcement read:
"Vance P. McCormick, chairman of the
flemocratio national committee, authorized
Robert W. Wool ley. director of
publicity of the democratic national
:ommittee. over the long-distance telephone
from Harrisburg today, to announce
that he had .appointed Robert
V. Harper, president of the District National
Bank, chairman of the inaugural
committee."
Notified by Chairman McCormick.
After the official announcement had
)een made Mr. Harper admitted that he
tad received word personally from Mr.
McCormick.
"Naturally, 1 appreciate the honor
>ery much." said Mr. Harper, "especial y
as I had not been a candidate for the
>ffice. This was not because I did not
isteem very highly the honor and
jrivilege of performing the duties conlected
with inaugural arrangements,
>ut I wished to leave the President
md the national chairman free to make
ihy appointment they saw fit without
'orcing upon them recognition of what?ver
services 1 have been able to per'orm
for the party. During the next
hree months I will devote practically
til my time to the duties of the iritugural
chairmanship, and it will be
ny sincere effort to make the celebraion
in March the most successful
vent of the kind ever held in the Xaional
Capital.
"I am confident that we can bring
iere the largest inaugural gathering
>f history. This will not be a purely
l?ft?9crskt)?? celebration, b^t It will be a
estfmomaT of the entire people of the
otmtry to the President of the United
(tates., shosviug him that dfrrapalgn
ontests are over, and the will of the
teople having spoken the entire counry
stands ready to support him in all
hat he does for the welfare of the remblic."
Prospects for Inaugural Ball.
Prospects for an inaugural ball or
eception were suggested to Mr. Har)er,
but he declined to discuss this
>hase of the inaugural celebration at
his time. "Naturally." he said, "we
vill wish to defer to the President in
my arrangements for a big social afrair.
What the 'President's views are
jji this subject. I have not yet had an
ipportulifty to learn. I know, of course,
hat the people of Washington are
eager to entertain guests from all ovei
he country at a big reception. The
President's wishes will guide our ac:ion,
and I will make an announcement
)n this subject as soon as possible."
National Committeeman Costello, in
mnouncing the appointment of Mr.
Fiarper, showed his own gratification
it the confirmation of his choice foi
:he office. Mr. Costello had presented
iir. Harper's name as the unanimous
choice of democrats in the District,
lelling the national chairman that this
ippointment should be made on the
ground of appreciation of valuable
A-ork done for the democratic party by
Sir Harper during many years, and
especially as chairman of the finance
ornmittee. which collected campaign
funds in the District this year. He
ilso told Mr. McCormick that from a
consideration of efficiency Mr. Harpei
sfesitiWI nump/l unrf it is undfrstnnrl
that it was on these grounds that the
selection was made.
Mr. Harper was indorsed for the office
by the organised legal representatives
of the District in the democratic
party. Resolutions sent to the national
headquarters in New York were unanimously
in favor of Mr. Harper "with
out compromise."
Political Leaders Are Pleased.
"The unanimous indorsement of Mr
Harper by the national chairman and the
entire national committee." said Mr. Cotflello
today, "is most gratifying to me
especially since it is an indication thai
the President and his campaign manager;
recognize and appreciate the work of the
loyal democrats and their friends in the
District."
Mr. Wooley also expressed delight al
the appointment of Mr. Harp?r. "Personally
it is very gratifying to me. for 1 have
been a warm advocate of Mr. Harper's
appointment. All of us who have worked
during the campaign and been in close
touch with those in charge of the campaign
have admired the valued work Mr
Harper has been doing for President Wilson.
W:e knew all along that those it
charge of the campaign appreciated thh
work and had high regard for the personality.
loyalty and ability of Mr. Harper.
We felt very confident from the beginning
that no other per-on would bf
considered for the inaugural honor unti
it had first been offered to Mr. Han"r.'
.?ii v i iii? uemocraiic leaocrs * oirei
gratification today at the appointment
rind predicted that Mr. Harper would at
once start after preparations for the
inaugural celebration. "Harper isn't
the sort of fellow to let the grass gro\*
under his feet." was stated by on<
prominent democrat, and this seemec
to epitomize the view not only of tlu
democratic leaders, but of business mer
and bankers
Prominent financiers, who. have beer
waiting for several weeks for the &p<
pointment of the inaugural chairman
in congratulating Mr. Harper, told hiir
that they are ready to contribute libi
erally to the guarantee fund which is
raised in Washington to pay expenset
of the inaugural celebration. The committee
to solicit funds for this purpos<
has not yet been named, but it will b?
one of the first announced by Mr
Harper.
. Active Democratic Worker.
Mr. Harper has been an active demo*
eratic worker since before be cast hi!
ttrst- vote. He was for many years presi
dent of tin Virginia Democratic Associa
tfon of tUa any. For four years he wai
on the Mail ?f Gov. Montague of Vir
ginia. .. . ......
In I9?0 air. Harper was a delegati
from Virginia to the national democratic |
convention in Kansas City. He was chairman
of the finance committee of the con-J
gressional committee auxiliary and collected
more than one-fifth of the entire
amount collected throughout the United}
States.
During this campaign for the re-elec-1
otion of President Wilson he served undir I
Mr. Morgenthau as local chairman of t e t
national democratic finance committee. {
and through his efforts more than $50 -!
000 was sent from Washington to assist j.
in financing this campaign. I
For six years Mr. Harper ran a news- j
paper in Virginia. ,
rik' J<?iS I
Chapter. No. 1. Royal Arch Masons; of
Columbia Comma fide ry? No. 2, Knights t
emplar: a membefr af the National Press i
Club of Washington and of the New York j
Press Club. He is also a member of the
Commercial Club and the Columbia Cbun- ;
try Club of this city. j
Has Varied Connections.
Mr. Harper is a director in the'Board of j
Trade and Washington Chamber pf Comi
merce and was twice president of the j
Chamber of Commerce. He has organized [
two national banks, two savings banks 1
and one trust company and is now presi- J
dent of the District National Bank and
a director in two other banks.
i Mr. Harper resides on 16th street and
has a country ertate in Lee.-iburg, \*a
lie is president of the Washington and
Lee/burg Good Roads Association and
has just complete<L fourteen miles of,
macadam road by private, voluntary con- i
tribution.
As chairman of the citizens' committ3e
which is arranging for the entertainment
of the Confederate veterans. Mr. Harper
* is at prseent planning to bring more than
I 1.'>0.006 persons to Washington for the
i big reunion here next May.
He is a member of the Sons of the
| American Revolution.
Democratic leaders, when they learned
today of the appointment of Mr. Harper,
were pleased at his selection and prel
dieted that his enthusiasm would result in
; bringing here for the inauguration a rec:
ord-breaking crowd of visitors.
1 ft
: ADAMSON LAW CASE SET
FOR HEARING JANUARY 81
T i
; Chief Justice White Announces Supreme
Court's Action on the Federal
Motion to Advance.
i Argument on constitutionality of the i
! I
- j Adamson eight-hour day w as today set
" j by the Supreme Court for January 8.
[ Chief Justice White announced the
* court's action on the motion, presented
! last Monday by Solicitor General Davis,
* to advance the Missouri, Oklahoma and
t Gulf railroad test for early hearing.
The case was ordered heard before a
: dozen other important cases previously
I assigned for January 8.
5 The law becomes effective January 1.
MOUNTING COST OF WAE.
72.600,C00.0C0 Francs for France
i and 90,000,000X00 for England.
i' PARIS, December 11. ? Raoul Peret,
I - |
j former minister of commerce, -discussing
J j in the chamber of deputies, in behalf of I
^jthe appropriations committee, the budget |
?j for the first three months of 1917, pointed
t out that France will have incurred ex,
penditures to the amount of 72.600,000,000
I francs between the opening of hostilities
s and the end- of March next, while Great
i Britain in the same period will have had
an outlay of 90.000.000,000 of franca,
i This statement drew exclamations from
the deputies that "Great Britain is thus
, proved to hatfe collaborated cordially and
i completely."
t Earl Curzon Again to Marry.
[ LONDON. December 11.?The engage>
ment is announced of Earl Curzon of
. Kedleston, former viceroy of India, and
Mrs. Grace Elvina Duggan, wido^v of
Alfred Duggan of Buenos Aires. Mrs.
Duggan is the eldest daughter of the
late J. Munroe Hinds, formerly Ameri8
can minister to Brazil.
Earl Curzori.I/a widower. In 1895 he
b married Mary Victorig, daughter of
the late Levi Z. Letter of Chicago and
Washington. Lady Curzon died in 1906.
Three daughters were born ol .this
i union. ^
4 \ NOW
ft Ob
i*/usALL
i' NWJTO OeT
jtbus*
rk fi
ENTENTE DEMANDS
ON GREECE READY
May Insist on Complete Demoisnizanon
oY King Constantine's
Army.
WAR A POSSIBLE OUTCOME
By the Associated Press.
LONDON, December 11, 1:50 p.m.?The
latest reports from Athens say that the
note of the entente governments to
Greece is ready and undoubtedly will be
presented tomorrow. The note will be
short, in the nature of a preliminary to a
second note, which will contain more detailed
demands.
I.t is indicated that the demands on
Greece may require complete demobilization
of the army, restoration of control
by the entente over the posts, telegraphs
and railways and the release of the imprisoned
Venizelists.
Advices from the British minister indicate
that conditions are more calm.
Large numbers of allied nationals continue
to leave Athens.
May Resist Entente Demands.
Special dispatches from Rotterdam
quote the Frankfurter Zeitung's 'Budapest
correspondent as saying that Greece
has notified the central and entente allies
that she is determined henceforth
to maintain striet neutrality, that she
will make not a single further concession
to the entente and that any new
challenge from the entente wMl be regarded
as a casus belli.
The dispatches add that, according to
the Frankfurter Zeitung's Constantinople
correspondent the entente powers
have agreed that if it becomes necessary
they will dethrone King Constantine
and enthrone Prince Pierre, the
eight-year-oid son of Prince George of
Greece, with M. Venizelos as regent..,
Revolt' in the Cyclades.
Telegrams received here today from
Athens say that a revolution has
broken out in the Cyclades, a group of
Greek islands in the Aegean sea.
The Greek battleship Hydra, which is
under the control of the entente allies,
has intercepted, the Greek advices say,
wireless messages from King Constantine
addressed to Berlin.
Ail the Greek communities in Egypt,
it is added, have renounced their allegiance
to King Constantine.
mnnrnniMpnc madima
lunrmuinu ui \m\wm
BREAKS PLEDGE, IS CLAIM
State Department Conclusion Regarding
Germany's Act, Resulting
in Loss of Six Americans.
Announcement was macfe at the State
Department today that complete information.
now at hand, covering the case
Conservation
of Paper
fivery citixen Is called upon to sea
tnat not a pound ot paper is wasted
Demand trom eve.y clerk that an J
unnecessary wrapping of packages
be dispensed witn.
If you have no further use for today's
newspaper save it for the
school children's playground fund
Call Main 6036 and ask for the
nearest public school to your homo
and She old papers will be sent for.
' . . l. , - I .. . i i. . 4 4 .. .
1
I
^
^s.
of the British horse ship Marina, torpedoed
with, a loss of sjx Americans,
makes it appear to be a "clear-cut"
violation of Germany's pledges to the
I'nitprt Statps
| Full information on the case of the
I Arabia will be awaited before the nest
move is made, which is expected to
take the form of a new note intended (
to clear up what appear-to be differences
of interpretation on what Germany's
pledges in the .Sussex case actually
cover^, especially with reference
to a fiied smp?.
GEN. PETAIN TO SUCCEED ,,
TO JOFFRE'S COMMAND
Private Advices From Paris Confirm
Plan to Promote Defender
i
of Verdun.
I I
I Private advices from Paris received j,
; here today, telling of the secret pro- i (
j ceediugs in the French chamber of I;
deputies during the last week, confirm h
previous reports that Ge-n. Petain. the
defender of Verdun, is to succeed Gen.
JoiTre in supreme command of all the
allied forces on the western battle
front, as the first result of radical
changes in organization which are to
follow concentration of management
of the war in a small council, as has
I been done in Kngland. ?
' Gen. Petain, little known outside the i
French army, was a colonel at the out- ,
break of the war. ^
ARTISTS' PRIZES AWARDED. J
National Aaademy of Design Makes
Announcement of Winners.
NEW YORK. December 11.?The Na- J
tional Academy of Design has an- ]
nouuced the winners of prizes for !
paintings submitted in its winter exhi- '
bition. They were: (
For the most meritorious oil painting i
by an American artist, portraits only <
1 excepted, to Howard Russell Butler, 1
j Princeton. X. J.: for the best portrait, 1
i Philip L. Hale, Boston; for figures or (
! genre paintings by American artists,
j to Law ton Parker. Chicago, and E Irv- j
1 ing Couse, New York; for the best fig|
ure composition painted by an Amer- *
; lean artist thirty-five years of ag^ or '
under, to George W. Bellows. New 1
! York; for the most meritorious work of '
j art produced by an American woman
who has not previously received the
prize* to Marie D. Page, Boston; for a
work in sculpture, without restriction,
to Herbert Adams', New York: for the
best piece of sculpture, the work of an (
artist under thirty-five years of age, to '
Laura Gardin-Fraser.
WAR RISK RAISE IN LONDON.
Advance Follows Report of German
Commerce Raider at Large.
NEW YORK, December 11.?Marine <
underwriters received word today that
war risk insurance in London had ! ;
been advanced from 5 to 10 per cent j j
j Tor iransauunuc anu . cape 01 uooq j
Hope trade, due to the announcement I
that a German commerce raider was at |
large. It -was said that the New York
rates would probably fdllow the London
lead.
'A heavily armed steamship fitted with
torpedo tubes has been sighted about
500 miles north , of the Azores, in the
middle of the steamship lane, according
to a wireless warning flashed last
night to merchant vessels of the enr
tente aliles by a British or French
cruiser lying off Sandy Hook.
President's Plurality in Kentucky. 1
FRANKFORT, Ky.? December 11.? J
President Wilson's plurality in Kentucky
was 28,136, according to the official
canvass of the vote, announced
today. The socialists polled 4,734, prohibitionists
3,036, socialist labor 333 1
and progressives 129 votes. {
..Highest electors on the tickets of the i
dominant ..parties . wpre: Democrat, J
269,990; republican, 241,854. i
. ... " * I
RUMANIANS STAND
ALONGTHE BIIZEU
Mew Defensive Line on the
Southern Boundary of Moldavia
Province.
TEUTONS ARE DRIVEN BACK
Indications today point more strongly
han ever to the probability that the
lew defensive line of the Rumanians.
onowing tneir retreat from Bucharest,
vill be drawn along: the Buzeu river,
'orming the southern boundary of
heir northern province of Moldavia.
Additional reports from Petrograd
ndicate a considerable measure of success
by the Rumanian northern army
n holding: up the Teutonic advance
lortheast along- the railroad from
Ploechti, north of Bucharest, to the
:own of "Buzeu. located at about the
:enter of the Buzeu river line, which
stretches eastward to the lower reaches
>f the Danube.
Protecting Southern Force.
It is necessary to the apparent purDose
of the Rumanians for them to present
an Austro-German advance here
jntil the Rumanian forces farther
south in eastern Wallachia, retreating
rom the region between Bucharest and
rcherpavoda, have reached the Buzeu
iver line, unless, indeed, the Rumanian
nilitary authorities have decided to
etain a hold on more of eastern Walachia
than it qow seems their pur>ose
to defehd. These Rumanian forces
?re threatened not only by Field Marshal
von Mackensen's Danube army,
>ut by new contingents of Bulgarians,
vhich have crossed the Danube beween
Silistria and Tchernavoda.
Meanwhile the Russians are hammerng
away at the Austro-German lines
>n the western frontier of J- 'ddavia and
eport making headway in the valleys
-unning toward the west. Their object
ipparently is not only to hold the Moliavian
frontier safe, but possibly to
achieve an eventual success in breaking
well through into Hungary and cutting
n behind the Austro-German supply
ines leading into Rumania from the
lorth.
Rumanians Launch AttacK,
Regaining Lost Positions
on Front East of Ploechti
By th?* Associated Presp.
PETROGRAD, December 11; via London,
1:45 p.m.?Alter being pressed back
by the Teutonic army on the front east
of Ploechti, the Rumanians made an attack
yesterday and regained, their posit
tions, Oflftoe announced today. ""
The announcement follows:
"O* tttiW the enemy
IMfessed back the Rumanians
Floechtl-Mlcil high road. Thf 1 HMF
morning the Rumanians, by a counter
attack, restored the position. The battle
is. still proceeding.
"In . Dobrudja and on the Danube
reciprocal firing is under way.
"Jn the reflion of Kirlibaba (north of
the northwestern Moldavian frontier),
the enemy, about a company strong,
took the offensive, "but was beaten back
by our fire to his trenches.
In the region of the village of Vale
Putna and in the valley of the River!
rrotus (Moldavian frontier), the enemy !
ofPeied stubborn resistance, meeting our
advance with a violent fire and counter
attacks which, however, were not. successful.
"In the mountain!? along the whole 1
;r< nt a deep snowfall and considerable j
treat are greatly hampering operations.'*
Teutonic Forces Driven Back.
LONDON, December 11.?The stand
made by the retreating: Rumanian army
east of Floeehti in eastern Wallachia
resulted in the driving back of the
Teutonic forces a distance of several
kilometers, according to a Petrograd
lispatch, relayed in a wireless message
from Rome today.
In the course of the Rumanian attack
two hostile squadrons are said to have
been annihilated.
The Times' correspondent at Rumanian
headquarters, writing under date of
December 3, confirms earlier though
ess precise reports that the Rumanians
Have taken measures to prevent the
central powers from utilizing the oil
wells in the captured territory. The
correspondent writes-: "During the last
week all wells, refineries, oil tanks and
Pther installations in the Prahova valley
have been destroyed In a way which
renders the production of oil in this
nch petvoliferou.s region impossible.
Great depots of benzine were burned,
at Aloreni, the most important oil
leld in Rumania fyom the point of view
if production, the destruction was very
complete in view of the necessity of
preventing the working of the heavy
iil deposits -which are so necessary to
the Germans.* seeing that the Galician
wells yield only light oil."
Reports Repulse of Russians.
BERLIN, December 11, by wireless to
Sayvillev?Strong forces of Russians
yesterday again attacked the Teuton
troops to the north of Tartar pass, in
the -Carpathians, in the Bystritza sector.
northeast of the Gyergyo mountains.
and on both sides of the Trotu
valley, in \jestern Rumania, but with-"
out success, says today's German official
statement.
The pursuit by Field Marshal von
Mackensen's troops of the retreating
Rumanian armies continues, in spite of
a. pouring rain and the destruction* of
bridges. At places some resistance was
met. the statement adds, and this has
now been broken. Several thousand
more Rumanians were taken prisoner.
The Rumanians have lost approxinately
112.000 men in prisoners since
Rumania entered the war, or about onesixth
of their army, besides suffering
casualties estimated at about 300.000,
writes the military critic of the Overseas
News Agency today in his review
>f the Rumanian campaign.
SEPARATE VETO REFERENDUM j
On Appropriation Bills to Be Taken J
by IT. 8. Commerce Chamber.
The Chamber of Commerce of the
United States announced today that a t
referendum* will be takfen of all its [
onstituent bodies throughout the!
United States to ascertain \vhether the
yusiness men of the country think that
:he President should be empowered by
constitutional amendment to veto separate.
items of appropriation bills.
The balloting will be completed, it is
stated, by the third week in January,
n ti/ne for..the information gathered
lo be presented to Congress for posliblo
action.
LLOYD GEORGE ILL;
CANNOT SEE KING
t
Other Members of the New
Ministry Receive Their
Seals of Office.
WAR COUNCIL IS SUPREME
By th* Associated Preaa.
LONDON, December 11, 12:45 p.m.?*
Premier Lloyd George is ill. He waft
unable to go to Buckingham Palace today
with members of his cabinet to receive
the seals of office from King
George.
Official announcement was made that
the premier was suffering from a severe
chill and that on the advice ot
his physicians he was remaining la*
doors today. ?
Sends Message to Commons.
Premier Lloyd George has sent the
following to all members of the house
of commons, it was announced officially
today: ?
"The king has intrusted me with the
task of forming a government. I have
carried out the command. I had hoped
to make a statement to the house on
Tuesday. I now find it to be impossible.
On Tuesday Mr. Bonar Law. as leader
In the house, will move adjournment
till Thursday.
"The one predominant task before
the government is the vigorous prosecution
of the war to a triumphant conclusion.
1 feel confident the government
can rely on your support as long
as they devote their energies effectively
to*that end."
Get Seals From. King.
Andrew Bonar Law and the other members
of the ministry, with the exception of
the premier, who are not required to seek
re-election on assumption of office, and
also the lords who are co-operating with
the new administration, went to the pglr
ace at noon today, kissed the hands of
the king and received their seals of offic*. ;
The members of the cabinet, who must be t
re-elected unless the house of commons
passes a bill making this unneceaary. and
the ministers, who are members of neither
house, for whom seats must be found, are
taking over their offices and will conduct
them as though all official formalities had *"
been complied with.
Former Premier Asquith and his followers
will occupy opposition benches to the *
left of the speaker. The independent la- .
bor party, whose members^are avowed
peace advocates, also will cross to the
opposition side, thus creating a visible J
[ spin in ine utuor pa.ry in opinion on cur- }
rent issues. ' 3
The nationalists will decide their attl- -]
i tude at a meeting called for tomorrow.
It is probable they will press the Irish
claims with emphasis, demanding hn- > |
mediate changes in the Irish adrninistr?- .1
tion and the release of Irishmen arrets 1 ]
during the rebellion.
' of War Council.
The official list of the new ministry,
issued laatr night follow# the unofllcUI
with two or three
emRpi Mr. Lloyd George, LordsHPt^'
ner. Earl Curzon. Bonar Law and Ar- 'j
thur He'Oderson form what is officially "
termed the war cabinet, while the
otl\ers, who ordinarily have been desig^ , *
nated. as cabinet ministers, are called >
heads of departments.
An important point in this novel or- "1
ganization is that it concentrates far . I
mope power in the hands of the prime
minister than the British system has I
ever known before. Mr. Lloyd George':; ' j
proposals to Premier Asquith were for
a war council of which the premier
should not be a member, although he
should have the power of passing o.i
i its work. Mr. Lloyd George has not
hesitated to place himself in the position
more closely resembling a dictatorship
than he was willing to give his
predecessor.
The war cabinet will hold daily sessions.
directing the prosecution of the
war. and the freedom of Mr. Lloyd
George. Lord Milner and Mr. Hendersinj
from departmental duties will allow
them to de\*>te all their time to the
war council, the work of the exchequer
and government leadership in
the house of commons will absorb most
of Mr. Bonar Law's time, and attendance
on the house of lords will necessitate
Earl Curzon's absence from the
council. So that Mr. Lloyd George.
Lord Milner and Mr. Henderson will be
the chief directors of the war.
Others in the Ministry.
The members of the ministry who afil
not in the war cabinet are:
l^ord high chancellor. Sir Robert
Bannatyne Finlay.
Secretary of state for the home
partment, Sir George Cave.
Secretary of state for foreign affairs.
Dr. Arthur J. Balfour
Secretary of state for the colonies.
Walter Hume Long.
Secretary of state for war, the Earl of .
Derby.
Secretary of state for India, Austen.
Chamberlain.
President of the local government
board. Baron Rhondda.
President of the board of trade. Sis
Albert Stanley.
Minister nf labor. John Hodsre.
First lord of the admiralty. Sir Ed*
ward Carson. "
Minister of munitions. Dr. Christopher
Addison. ?- I
Minister of blockade. Lord Robert
Cecil.
Food controller. Baron Davenport. *
Shipping controller. Sir Joseph Faton
Maclay. t
President of the board of agriculture#
Rowland E. Prothero.
President of the board of education*
Herbert A. I-. Fisher. First
commissioner of works, Sir Alfred
M. Mond.
Chancellor of the duchy of Lancaster,
Sir Frederick Cawley.
Postmaster general, Albert Illing~
worth.
Minister of pensions, Georga N.
Barnes. - 4
Attorney general. Sir Frederick E.
Smith. "i
Solicitor general, Gordon Hewart,
K. C. ^
Secretary for Scotland. Mr. Munro.
Lord advocate, James A. Clyde, K. C.
Solicitor general for Scotland, Thoinaa
B. Morison, K. t'.. a
Lord lieutenant of Ireland. Baron.
Wimborne.
Chief secretary for Ireland, Henry K.
Dyke. t
Lord chancellor for Ireland, 8lr Iffnative
J. O'Brien, K. C. ?I
Sir Robert Bannatyne Finlay. In accepting:
the office of lord high chancellor.
stipulated that his right to a
pension be waived.
Plan for Meetings Unknown.
Whether there .is any plan for meet- \
ings of all the heads of departments
of cabinet rank is not known yet, bu^.
councils in which the ministers Of j
foreign affairs, war and the admiralty*
participate with the others whose
duties directly concern war measures
will be certain.
The complexion o,f the new govern*
ment is. twelve liberals, fifteen oaisl*
7
