TIMES
PRICE, ONE CEXT.
BAltKE, VERMONT, MONDAY, DECKMHKIt 11, 1910.
VOL. XX NO. 228.
THE BARH
E
BAIEY
CHECK GIVEN
TOTEUTOKS
Rumanians Turn on Their
Pursuers and Inflict .
Damage
BATTLE WAS FOUGHT
EAST OF PLOECHTI
Two Teuton Squadrons Are
Said to Have Been
Annihilated
Tho indications to-day point more
strongly than ever to the probability
thatt lie now defensive line of the Ru
manians, following their retreat from
Bucharest, will bo drawn along the Bu
u river, forming the south boundary of
the northern province of Moldavia. Ad
ditional reports from Fetrograd indicate
that a considerable measure of success
by the Rumanian army in holding up the
Teutonic advance along the railroad from
Floechti, north of Bucharest, to the town
of Buzeu, located at about the center of
the Buzeu river line, which stretches
eastward to the lower reaches of the
Danube.
Meanwhile the Russians are hammer
ing away at the Austro-German lines on
the western frontier of Moldavia and re
port making headway in the valleys run
ning toward the went.
There has been little fighting of im
portance on the other fronts.
RUMANIANS RETOOK
OLD POSITIONS
Made Attack on Front East of Ploechti
Sunday and Won Important Vic
' tory, Says Petrograd
Report.
Petrograd. viaLondon, Dec. 11. After
being pre:sed back by Teutonic forces on
th' front cast of Floechti, the Ruma
nian J made an attack yesterday and re
gained the positions, the war office an
nounces. London, Dec. 11. The fetand made by
tlie retreating Rumanian army east of
Floechti resulted in the driving back of
the Teuton forces at a distance of sev
eral kilometres, according to a Fetrograd
dispatch relayed by wireless from Rome
to-day. In the course of the Rumanian
attack two hostile squadrons are said to
liave been annihilated. "
RUSSIANS FAILED
IN SEVERAL ATTACKS
Berlin Official Statement Also Declares
That Temporary Resistance of
. . Rumanians Was Broken.
Berlin, by wireless, Dec. 11. Strong
forces of Russians yesterday afternoon
attacked the Teutonic troops north of
Tartar pass in the Carpathians and on
both sides of Trotus valley in western
Rumania without success, says the offi
cial statement.
The pursuit by Field Marshal Von
Maekensen's troop's of the retreating Ru
manian armies continues. At some
points resistance was met; the state
ment adds, but this has now been brok
en. Several thousand more Rumanians
have been taken prisoners.
FRENCH VICTORIES
IN AIR ARE TOLD
Four German Airplanes Were Brought
Down Sunday Two on Verdun
Front and Two in Cham
pagne. Taris, Dee. 11. Four German airplanes
were brought down yesterday, two of
them on the Verdun front and two in
Champagne. The war office announces
that intermittent cannonading occurred
south of the Somme front last Sunday.
Danish Steamer Believed Sutrk.
london, Dee. 11. Lloyds announces
that the Danish stea-mer Xora is be
lieved to have been sunk.
MORE REVOLUTION '
Has Broken Out in the Greek Island of
Cyclades Group.
London, Dec. 11. Telegrams received
hcic to-day from Athens gay that a revo
lution has broken out in the Cyclades
gioup of Greek islands in the ..tgean sea.
INDICTED FOR MURDER. .
Francis Kctcham Is Accused of Murder
at Bmnirgton.
Kcnniim.on, lire. II. The r.pecial grand
jmy which went into session when the
). mliiM 't-rm of Bennirgton county
court pi-nd mi Tuesday lias made its
report and has Wn discharged. Two
indictments were found and two bills
were returned a not found.
Kr:mci Kctcham was indicted for the
murder of William Costello, a mill hand,
ho was shot and instantly killed near
the Vermont soldiers' home here on the
right of Sept. Id. Calvin Williams, a
lugro lumberjack, was indicted for felo
nious assault committed come tm.nths
ego in the town of Manchester. Since
l.e was lodsred in the county jail here,
WiHiams made a. sensational attempt to
escape. H attacked the sheriff and was
t-jbduvd by the sheriffs wife, who
knocked out ti e negro with heavy
dlvrk.
"Sir. and Mrs. John Prin of Bolster
tifrw left lift r.'gfcl fn Builington,
where tVy will viMt tvfctivrs for veral
iays.
THE DEfJTSCHLAND
IN HOME PORT AGAIN
Submarine Arrived Off the Mouth of the
Weser Sunday, According to Wire
less Message to Sayville.
Berlin, Dec. 11, by wireless to Sayvillo.
Tho German commercial submarine
Doutschlund, completing a quick trip
home from the United State arrived at
noon yesterday off the mouth of the
Wcser.
The arrival of tdie Deutschland at a
German port marks the successful com
pletion of the second round trip of this
commercial undersea boat to the United
States. On her voyage Just finUhod she
made tho passage in 10 days, having left
Now London, Nov. 21. This bettered
considerably tho record for her previous
eastward trip, which starting from Bal
timore took her 21 days. Her two west
ward voyages occupied, respectively, 10
davs and 21 days.
Tho Deutschland, which is the only
commercial craft of her type that has
succeeded In reaching tins country from
Germany, her sister ship, the Bremen,
having been lost on her outward voy
age, was forced to make two starts from
New London on this return trip. On her
first attempt on November 17, she col
lided with an escort tug and had to
put back to port. She was not badly
damaged, however, and was ttblo to put
out again four days later.
The Deutschland on both her trips,
brought valuable cargoes, chiefly dyes
and chemicals. On her present trip she
took a cargo estimated at $2,000,000 in
value and official mail for Germany.
New London, Conn., Dec. 11. The Ger
man submarine Deutschland which ar
rived in home waters yesterday will
make another trip to this port within
tho next few weeks according to a
statement last night b Paul G L. Mil
ken, vice president of the Kastern For
warding company, American agent? for
the undersea craft. He added that the
submersible would make regular trips as
long as the war continued.
Mr. Hilken said the submarine's cargo
was valued at $2,000,000. this being the
first official statement from the concern
Several carloads of tin have arrived at
the docks here and shipments of crude
rubber are expected this week. Steve
dore have been ordered to report early
in January.
TRIED TO RAM SUBMARINE.
That Is Excuse Given for Destruction of
Steamer Caledonia.
Berlin, Dec. 11, via London. The Brit
Ul t..m.r Caledonia was Bunk bv a
(:rnnn mihrnnrine on Dec. 4. after she
bad tried to ram the undersea boat, it
was officially announced yesterday, tier
captain was taken prisoner.
The official statement reaas:
"Tho Hritisli nassencer shin Caledonia
attempted on Dec. 4 to ram a German
submarine. The submarine, which was
slightly damaged, fired a torpedo which
unit th ttMmcr. The commander of
the steamer, Captain Blaikie, was made
prisoner.
An announeement made at Lloyds in
London on Dee. 8 stated that the Anchor
line steamer Caledonia was believed to
have been sunk. The Caledonia, which
was of 0,223 toni gross and 500 feet
long, had been for some time in the
service of the British government. She
was built in Glasgow in 1!04.
The German announcement that the
British steamer Caledonia attempted to
ram a submarine and that Captain Blaik
ie was made prisoner may furnish an
opportunity to teat the temper of the
new government.
The Germans executed Captain Charles
Fryatt of the merchant steamer Brussels
last July for a similar action, and many
demands were heard in England that the
government should have notified the Ger
mans of reprisals in such an event.
RAIDER HEAVILY ARMED.
Was Sighted Northeast of Porto Rico,
Says Warning.
New York, Dec. 11. A heavily armed
steamship fitted with torpedo tubes has
been sighted about M0 miles northeast
of Porto Rico, according to a wireless
warning flashed last night to merchant
vesssels of the entente allies by a Brit
ish or French cruiser lying off Sandy
Hook.
The message which was sent first in
English and then repeated in Italian,
said:
"Sighted 7 a. m., December 4, latitude
48.45 north and longitude latitude 27.57
west, a steamer of about 4,000 tons, 350
feet long and 45 feet beam. Vessel well
armed and fitted with torpedo tubes.
Had one short, broad funnel, and two
masts. Steamer probably high speed.
Take all precautions."
0YAMA IS DEAD.
Was Commander of Manchurian Army
Against Russia.
Tokio, Dec. 11. Field Marshal Prince
Iwao Oyama, commander-in-chief of the
Manchurian army of Japan during the
Russo-Japanese war, is dead.
Field Marshal Frince Oyama shared
with Field Marshal Prince Yamagata. the
highest military and civil honors in the
gift of the emperor. Both were field
marshals, both were princes, ana both
were military councilors. Frince Oyama
hailed from Satsuma. He was 74 years
of age at the time of his death.
Oyama fought on the side of the im
perialist forces during the war of the
restoration, and was one of the earliest
students of foreign military methods.
DIED OF FRACTURED SKULL.
John H. O'Conner of Middlebury Victim
in Burlington.
Burlington, Dec. 11. John Henry
O'Connor, who suffered a fracture of the
skull Friday night in a fall as be was
entering his home at 107 Pearl street,
died yesterday at noon. The remains
will be taken to his former home at
Middlebury, where services will be held
at St. Mary's church Tuesday at 10 a. m.,
with burial in the family lot at St.
Mary's cemetery.
Mr. O'Connor was born July 2. 1S6S.
the son of James O'Connor. He is
survived by his wife, of this city; one
sister, Mrs. John Durlaw of Rutland;
and one brother, Michael, of Rutland.
PREMIER HAS
SEVERE COLD
So Lloyd-George Was Kept
from Attending For
mal Ceremonies
WHILE NEW CABINET
RECEIVED SEATS
Latter Went to Buckingham
Palace and Kissed
King's Hands
London. Dec. 11 -Premier Lloyd-George
is ill. He was unable to go to Bucking
ham palace to-day with the members of
his cabinet to receive the seals of office
from the king. Andrew Bonar Law and
the other members of the ministry, who
are not required to seek re-election on
the assumption of ollice. and also the
lords co-operating with tho new admin
istration, went to the pulace at noon to
day, kissed the hands of the king and re
ceived the seals of office.
The ofiieial announcement was made
that the premier was suffering from a
severe chill and on the advice of his
physicians he remained indoors.
A statement concerning the govern
ment's policy to be made by Ixdyd
George or Bonar Iav in the House of
Commons and Lord Citrzon in the House
of Lords probably will be postponed un
til Thursday when a vote of credit will
be moved. A strong' policy in regard to
the control of shipping, mines, food and
man-power is looked for. Former Pre
mier Asquith and his followers will oc
cupy the opposition benches to the left
of the speakers. The Independent La
bor party. whoe members are avowed
peace advocates, also will cross to the op
position said, thus creating a visible
split in the labor party. In this opinion
on current issues the Nationalists will
decide their attitude at a meeting to
morrow. Probably they will press the-,
Irish claims with emphasis, demanding
immediate changes in the Irish adminis
tration and the release of the Irish
men arrested during the rebellion.
ENTENTE DEMANDS
BEING FORMULATED
First Note to Greek Government Is Like
ly to Be Presented Tuesday, to
Be Followed By More De
tailed Statement.
London, Dec, 11. Latest reports from
Athens are that the note of the entente
governments to Greece is ready and un
doubtedly will be presented to-morrow.
The note is short and in the nature of a
preliminary to a second note, which will
contain more detailed demands.
It is indicated that the .demands on
Greece may require the complete demo
bilization of the army, restoration of the
control by the entente over posts, tele
graph and the railways, and the release
of imprisoned Venizelists. Advices from
the British minister indicate that the
conditions are more calm. Large num
bers of allied nationals continue to leave
Athens.
NO MEDIATION OFFER
Or Suggestion for Peace Being Made By
United States.
Washington, Dec. 11. Offerings of me
diation or suggestions of peace to the
European nations have not been made by
the United States, they are not being
borne across seas by Ambassador Gerard
and will not be broached by this govern
ment in the near future unless there is
soma quite unexpected turn in world
events.
These facts are stated authoritatively
by one of the highest officials of the gov
ernment to counteract reports to the con
trary which have been generally pub
lished, much to the embarrassment of
the administration and to the mislead
ing of foreign nations. The facts set
forth and the details following may be
said to express the administration views
of the situation as affecting prospects
for peace.
In official circles it is felt that the in
creasing and apparently authoritative ru
mors that the United States is planning
some move for peace are calculated above
all else to destroy chances of peace, and,
no matter what their origin, to defeat
their own ends.
Indeed this misunderstanding has-.be-come
so serious that an official denial has
been completed, probably through the
state department. The president, how
ever, has preferred to disassociate him
self entirely from any such announce
ment, no matter how made, in order
that he might stand untrammelcd on his
original offer of mediation at ths begin
ning of tho war.
GIRL MAKES CONFESSION
That She Shot Her Father After Being
Scolded by Him.
Lvnn, Mass., Dec. 11. A confession
that she had killed her father, Gaetano
Gangi, was made last night by Grace
Gangi, according to a statement given
out by the police after they had ques
tioned the young woman about the shoot
ing of Gangi at his home Saturday night.
The girl admitted, the police alleged,'
that she obtained her father's pistol and
shot him after he had lded her for
not turning more of herweek's wages as
shoeworker into the family purse. She
Raid she warned him that she would kill
him if lie continued to call her names,
according to the alleged confession, and
when this warning was disregarded she
carried out her threat.
When the police were notified of Gan
gi's death Saturday night, the family in
sist that he had'shot himself. Upon a
further investigation. Miss Gangi was
found scrubbing the floor where her fa
ther had fallen, was detained and, after
her statement to the police, was locked
up on a chnxjro of murder.
WOMAN ACCUSED
IN BRATTLEBORO
Mrs. Maty Warren Porter of Marlboro
Charged with Bigamy She Was
Arrested on Present Hus
" band's Complaint.
Brnttlcboro, Dec. 11. Mrs. Mary War
ren Porter of -Marlboro was arrested by
Sheriff Clifford Mann to-day on a state's
attorney's complaint, charging bigamy.
A bearing was hold in municipal court
this afternoon.
The state charge that Bhe married
Rufus Warren, a machinist now living in
Montpclier, in 1007, and has not been
divorced from him. She has a boy three
years old by that marriage. She married
Mr. Porter "hero last August, and the cer
tificate says it was her first marriage.
Tim state flu i in s that she has a daughter.
aged IS, and a son, aged 20, by a mar
riage previous to eiiiicr oi mese. ine
complaint to State's Attorney Hughes
was made by the present husband.
RAILROAD FOUND LIABLE
For Killing of Five Cows Belonging to
John Gihnan of Randolph.
Chelsea, Dee. 11. Of the five cases set
to the jury in. the December term of
Orange county court only one was set
for trial, the other, four having been dis
posed of. That was the suit of John
Gilman of Randolph vs. Central Vermont
Railway Co. a tort action brought to re
cover damages for tho loss of five cows
killed on the trck of the defendant
company in 1014. Tim jury found the
defendant liable. Previously an agree
ment had been made by counsel as to the
amount of damago in case the defendant
should be found liable, the amount being
$212.
This brought the court to the state
calendar. The first- ease was that of
State vs. AVilliam 11. Cutler, jr., the re
spondent being one of three brothers who
live in Maiden. Mast., and wht, were ar
rested in April, 191, and brought before
Justice of the Peace C. C. Emerson of
Thetford on complaints of the state's at
torney for larceny. Sufficient evidence
was produced to satisfy the justice that
there was virtue in the complaint and
he bound them up to county court and
they were placed in the village lock-up
at Bradford for safe keeping over niglijt
and the sheriff was to transport them to
Chelsea on tho following day and com
mit them to the county jail to await
ptrial at the June term of 1015.
When the morning dawned it was dis
covered that the prisoners had left the
lock-up and their whereabouts was un
known. The state's attorney satisfied
the governor that the case of escaping
from the lock-up was of such a flagrant
violation of law and order to cause him
to issue requisition papers, which were
honored by the Massachusetts governor,
and officers went to the Hay state and
gathered in the trio, who are colored
gentlemen. They declined to come to
Vermont and contested the extradition,
but without avail, and they were turned
over to state ofticeis, jrho transported
them to Chelsea about two weeks ago.-
The trio were indicted separately for
escaping from the lock-up and their cases
set for separate trials. William II., jr..
the older of the three, took the stand in
his own defense arid told a story which
was supported by his brothers, as fol
lows: He stated that sometime in the
night after 9 o'clock, the chief of police
of Bradford, who was custodian of the
keys to the lock-up and cage, came to
the lock-up and entered into conversa
tion with him and, learning that he had
a good wad of money, unlocked the cell
door voluntarily ami requested him to
step outside, as he wanted to talk with
him. He complied with the request and
after a few minutes' conversation the
chief went back and opened the cell door
and requested his brothers to come out
and gave them directions how to go to
reach the New Hampshire line, and gave
them his name and address written on a
piece of paper that they might know
where to address him if they reached
their home safely.
In rebuttal, the chief stoutly denied
every part of the respondent's story and
after the jury haawrestled with the
problem for about two hours they ren
dered their verdict of not guilty, and
straightway the state's attorney filed an
information against the chief, charging
him with the crime of aiding prisoners
to escape, and held the three negroes as
witnesses in behalf of the state against
the chief in Lis trial, which will be the
next case taken up. Ball was fixed in
the sum of $500, which he furnished.
On Saturday morning Charles Simcox
of Strafford came before the court and
was naturalized. Several divorce cases
have been heard but as yet no decisions
have been rendered by the court.
EMBEZZLEMENT CHARGED.
Joseph G. Guilfoy is Wanted at Man
chester, N. H.
Manchester, N. H., Dec. 11. Com
plaints were yesterday made to police
headquarters, charging Joseph B. Guil
foy, senior member of the firm of Guil
fnv &. Sullivan, brokers and correspond
ents of R, G. Latham, members of the
Consolidated Staoek exchange of New
York, with emlwzzlement. Efforts are
being made to locate him.
Mr. Guilfoy disappeared on the 8th.
Investigation in Manchester and New
York are said to indicate that he had
been manipulating the business of the
firm without the knowledge of his part
ner. More than $30,000 is said to be un
accounted for.
The firm did a large and profitable
business and had the patronage of many
representative men and women. The
missing man enjoyed an excellent repu
tation. Hn has a family, held in the
highest esteeem.
James Sullivan, the junior member or
tho firm, has made s proposition to his
natron to reimburse them to the extent
to SO per een of their deposits at once
and tn nT back the remainder within
a short time. This proposition has been
accepted by those having made deposits
with the nrm.
INVESTIGATING COAL.
Government Begins Inquiry on High Cost
of Living.
New York, P-e. 11. 'The federal gov
ernment's inquiry into the high cost of
living began here to-day with prepara
tions for a grand jury investigation of
the coal buMneiS.
SUSTAINED
U. S. Supreme Court Decides
in Favor of New Ha
ven Directors
GOVERNMENT HAD
TAKEN CASES UP
Contending That Their Pre
vious Testimony Did
Not Release Them
Washington, D. C, Dec, 11. The ap
peals from the New York federal court
ruling, granting immunity to John L.
Billard, William Skinner and James S.
Elton in the New York, New Haven 4.
Hartford railroad prosecution, were dis
missed to-day in supreme court. The
government contended that they were
not entitled to immunity by having tes
tified before the interstate commerce
commission investigation.
Adamson Case Argued Jan. 8.
The arguments on the constitutional!
ity of the Adamson eight-hour law were
to-day set for Jan. 3 m supreme court.
WALLS WERE BLOWN
DOWN ; MANY INJURED
Quaker Oats Co. Building at Peterboro,
Ontario, Destroyed by Explosion
Twelve Have Already Been
Taken to Hospital.
Teterboro, Ontario, Dec. 11. An explo
sion in the engine room of the Quaker
(tats Co. plant here to-day blew down
the walls of the building, burying as yet
an unknown number of employes in the
ruins. Afterwards the ruins caught fire.
Twelve persons have already been res
cued and taken to the hospital. They
were severely injured.
"ORGANIZED EMOTION"
Cannot Take the Place of Brains, De
clares Hadley of Yale.
New Haven, Conn., Dec. 11. In reaf
firming his belief iu military prepared
ness, President Hadley of Yale, in his
annual report, made public yesterday,
says:
"I believe that organized. emotion can
never take the place of brains; that
Yale's first duty in preparing American
citizens, whether for peace or war, is to
adhere to rigid standards of discipline
and scholarship and well developed sense
of proportionate values.
"If our students have these things as
a basis," the report continues, "the more
they prepare themselves for the possible
requirements of military service the bet
ter. Without them, the spirit of pre
paredness may become a danger; with
them it is a safeguard and a blessing."
E. R. Embree, the acting secretary,
shows in his report that self-supporting
and scholarship winning students repre
sent over 30 per cent of the student en
rollment. TALK OF THE TOWN
John Milne left to-day for Springfield,
Mass., where he has secured employment
in one of the Springfield ammunition
factories
John Montelli of Bridgeport, Conn., ar
rived in Barre to-day and will spend sev
eral days visiting friends in Barre and
vicinity.
E. J. Trask, manager of the Bay State
Artesian Well Co., arrived in the city to
day and will spend several days in this
community on business.
Miss Florence Gilmore, who has been
visiting relatives on Brook street during
the past two weeks, returned to her home
in Bellows Falls yesterday.
Miss Isabelle Fullam, who has been
visiting friends in Barre and South
Barre during the past week, left this
morning for her home in West Burke.
Miss Anna McCarthy commenced work
at the Mascott Candy Kitchen this morn
ing. Miss Evelyn Bugbee, who has been
employed there during the fall, has com
pleted her duties.
Williamstown and I9t Brookfield vis
itors in the city Saturday were Mr. and
Mrs. Gardner Poore, Ora Poore, Carl
Sesver, Mrs. Frank LaRounty, Mrs.
Frank Tucker, Harry Allen and AVilliam
Hull.
E. C. Brock returned to his home on
Washington street to-day, after attend
ing the funeral of his mother, Mrs. Mary
B. Brock, whose death occurred on last
Thursday at her home in Newbury.
F. H. Bstchelder, general manager of
the New Home Sewing Machine Co., ar
rived in the city this morning from his
home in Springfield. Mass., and will
spend several days in the city, on busi
ness irf connection with the company.
Theodore Miller, who has been visiting
at the home of his mother, Mrs. James
Hooper of Montpelier, and friends in
Barre during the past month, leaves to
night for New York, where he will spend
a week with relatives before going to
Panama, where he will report to his du
ties as guardsman after a 70-day ir
lough. While oft his vacation Mr. Miller
has Wn visiting friends throughout the
eastern states.
About 40 friends gathered at the home
of Mrs. William Gellatly on Irospeet
street on Friday evening to bid her good
bye, as he is about leaving for Scot
hind, and a very enjoyable evening was
spent, songs being sune by Mrs. Ingram
Mrs. Innes, Mrs. K. Milne, Mrs. A. Walk
er. Mrs. Jeffrey, Mrs. Greig, Mrs. Allen,
Mrs. Yonng, Mrs. Gibson and Mr. Mor
gan, and stories were told by Mrs. R.
Webter. In behalf of the company
Mrs. C Ore is presented Mrs.
tiellatly a purse and money, which the
hostess appreciated very much. After a j
few selections on the victrola, the oom
panv broke up at a late hour, singing
' uld I.nz Svne" and wishing Mrs. Gel
latly godpecd on her voyage.
NEW ORGAN CAMPAIGN.
Has Been Started at St. Monica's Fine
Instrument to Be Secured.
Parishioners of St. Monica's church are
turning to the new year with high hopes
of replacing the antiquated organ in the
choir loft of their church with a new in
strument before many months. In re
sponse to suggestions made from the pul
pit Sunday morning by Rev. Fr. P. M.
McKenna, a representative number of
men and women of the church met in the
Knights of Columbus hall in the after
noon ami completed preliminary plans
for tho new organ campaign. There was
a general fooling that the time is at
hand for equipping the church with an
up-to-date instrument and to the end
that subscriptions may be received and
accounted for as rapidly as they como in,
a committee of five men and five women
was appointed to take charge of the
work. As a part of the organ campaign
it is proposed to devote the income from
public bazaars, etc., to the organ fund.
It is thought that an instrument costing
$3,000 and possibly more may be pur
chased. The organ now in use is a splendid spe
cimen of the organ maker's art in other
days, but it has nearly outlived its use
fulness and the need for a new instru
ment is described as imperative. The
present organ has been used in Catholic
service for upward of eighty years al
though not always at St. Monica's church.
Around twenty-five years ago it was pur
chased by Catholic laymen in Barre. with
the assistance of the priest-in-chargc.
Prior to that time, it had been used in
the Roman Catholic cathedral of the
Holy Cross in Boston. It is rich in as
sociations with Catholic history of New
England in the past eight years, but
rapid strides have been made in organ
building since it was produced and the
parishioners of St. Monica's feel that the
days of its usefulness are about done.
Some years ago an expert organ repair
man worked on the instrument and the
sum of $500 was expended in the work,
but it has steadily relapsed to its for
mer condition.
MASONIC" TRIBUTE PAID
At Funeral of Dr. E. B. Whitaker Held
in Barre on Sunday.
Masonic dignitaries representing near
ly every rank of the rraft in Vermont,
were in Barre yesterday to attend the
funeral of Dr. F.'lroy B. Whitaker, whose
death at his home, 18 Merchant street,
Thursday forenoon, removed one of the
best known members of the fraternity
in the state and a physician of wide rep
utation. Services were held in the Uni
versalist church at 2:30 p. m., the pastor,
Rev. J. B. Reardon, officiating. As the
hour for the obsequies approached, near
ly 150 local and visiting Masons who as
sembled at Masonic hall in the Hlanchard
building, formed in line and marched to
Merchant street to act as an escort while
the body was being taken to the church.
Mingling with the Knights Templar of
St. Aldemar commandery of this city
were 20 knights from Mount Zlon com
mandery of Montpelier, and to the escort
of 100 commandery men were added
nearlv 50 members of Granite lodge, No.
35, T. and A. M.
The bearers were: N..S. Love and M.
A. Love, nephews of the deceased; Dr.
F. X. Z. Archambault, Dr. W. Scott Nay
of Underhill, chairman of the state board
of medical registration, to which Dr.
Whitaker belonged, and a past grand
master of the grand lodge of Vermont;
Dr L D. Lamb, and Frank L. Small,
eminent commander of St. Aldemar com
mandery. At the church, a Knights
Templar quartet, consisting of Dr. D. C.
Jarvis, Frank R. Pitkin, William J. In
glis and Frederic Edwards, sang two se
lections, "Nearer My God to Thee" and
"Waiting." Rev. Mr. Reardon spoke ap
preciatively of the life work of the de
ceased and the Masonic ritual was given
by Granite lodge. There were many
floral tributes.
This morning at S:25 o'clock the body
was taken over the Central Vermont rail
road to Richmond and thence to Hines
burg, where interment was made in the
family lot in the village cemetery this
afternoon at 1 o'clock. Rev. F. W. Hem
enwav. pastor of the Congregational
church, offered prayer, and committal
services were in charge of Patriot lodge,
F. and A. M. Apart from numbers of
the familv, the funeral party included
Frank L. 'Small. Waldron Shield. C. F.
Millar and N. S. Love of St. Aldemar
commandery.
Among the relatives and intimate fam
ily friends who were present at the fu
neral from out of the city were: Dr.
George H. Bidwell of Waterbury, Mrs.
Bell and Mr. and Mrs. Henry Bell, Mrs.
Ida hazard of St. Albans, and Dr. W. S.
Nay of Underhill. Grand commandery
officers who attended included the follow
ing: F. 1L Babbitt of Bellows Falls,
grand generalissimo; William N. Herrick
of Montpelier, grand senior warden;
Judge Otis X. Kelton of St. Albans,
grand standard bearer, and Frank D.
Dewey of Montpelier, past grand com
mander. CHANGE AT HOSPITAL.
Miss
Fannie F. Pickup Resign
-Miss
Frances Robbins Appointed.
Miss Fannie F. Pickup has resigned her
nn it mn as sunerinieiKieiu oi me imn-
Citv hospital, tl'ie resignation to take ef
fect Jan. 1. The superintendent recency
returned from Lowell. Mass.. w nere nc
was called bv the death of her ftep-
mother and early i i the year she will go
to Philadelphia to make her home with
her father. The retirini; superintendent
came to the Barre hospital in November,
191j. In a year she has proved herself a
systematic and capable administrator of
hospital affairs and has brought the
training school for nurses to a high state
of efficiency.
Mis Pickup ' to be succeeded by
Miss Frances Bobbins, a graduate of the
Masachusett General hospital in Boston
and for some time assistant superintend
ent of the local institution. She will as
sume her duties with the departure of
the present superintended.
Neil Godfrey, who has been staying in
the home of his father, Frank (Jodtrey
of Williamstown. since be lclt the City
hospital several weeks ago, visited j
friends in the city to-day. Mr. Godfrey
lost a foot in an accident in the B. t j
M. railroad yard in September, but nej
has so far recovered his health as to le j
able to walk w ith crutches. Mr. i;.Urey
expects to devote hi time to drattitc
a trade which he followed before he en
tered the employ of the railroad c m-
ianr.
CLEAR-CUT
VIOLATION
Germany Broke Her Pledges
in the Sinking of the
Marina
STATE DEPARTMENT
ISSUES STATEMENT
Complete Information Said
to Have Been
Secured
Washington, D. C, Dec. 11. Announce
ment was mado by the state department
to-day that complete iuforniati'-n, now
at hand covering the case of V.orso
ship Marina, which was torp with a
loss of six Americans, ir t appear
a clear-cut violation ' Germany's
pledges to the United .s.
cS?
AT BERLI T WEEK.
Agricultural .slon School Will Be
Conducted.
Arrangements have been completed for
the agricultural extension school to bo
held at the Berlin Corner hall. The dato
will be the week beginning Dec. 18. The
lectures and demonstrations will begin
on Mondav atternoon at 1 :4., continu
ing through the week with forenoon and
afternoon sessions, until Friday night.
There will be one evening program, prob
ably coming on Wednesday evening.
The program of lectures and demon
strations will include all of the more
prominent phases of agriculture: Feed
ing, soils and their treatment, crops, live
stock, poultry, milk and other products,
marketing problems, fertilizers, etc. The
following men will be on the program:
Thomas Bradlee, extension director; Jay
Coryell, assistant county agent leader;
II. F. Johnson, dairy specialist; Prof.
Storey, animal husbandry specialist;
Frof. Leggett, poultry specialist; F. H.
Abbott, county agricultural agent, and
probably others.
A home economics school will be held
at the same time and pla.ee and in con
nection with this school. The ladies in
charge of this department will be Miss
Thayer and Mrs. Dimock.'
Complete programs of the lectures and
demonstrations will be published later.
All farmers and farmers' wives and oth
ers interested will be welcome to attend
the school fur all or a part of the pro
gram. It will be absolutely free of
charge. The Berlin farmers are to
be
congratulated upon their enterprise
obtaining this school for their town.
in
"BILLY" SUNDAY COMMENDED
Barre Thinks More of His Enthusiastic
Spirit is Needed.
A few of the outstanding features of
the Sunday revivals in Boston were dis
cussed by Rev. B. J. Lehigh, pastor of
the First Baptist church, in a brief ad
dress beforo the Sunday school yester
day forenoon. Mr. Lehigh, along with
Revs. J. F. Piani snlX.'C. Edwall of
Rarre, was among the Vermont clergy
and laity who passed a week in Boston,
returning home Saturday evening. Rev.
Mr. Lehigh probably echoed the senti
ments of his brethren in the denomina
tion when he said that Boston, New
England and the world at large needs
more of the militant evangelism which
the ex-baseball player is preaching. There
were unusually large congregations at
the First Baptist church Sunday morn
ing and evening, but the pastor touched
but lightly on his observations of tho
week.
Practically all of the Vermont visitors
concurred in the opinion that a good bit
of Sunday preaching would do a world
of good in Vermont. The delegates to
the winter conference of the Vermont
State Baptist convention met each fore
noon in Ford hall and then usually ad
journed in the afternoon or evening to
the tabernacle of Sunday.
SHOT THROUGH HEART.
Body of Hunter Found in Woods Near
Milton, N. H.
Milton, N. H.. Dec. 11. Earl Tilton,
aged 21, missing from the home of his
father, Clark Tilton, at New Bridge,
since .Friday forenoon, when he went
gunning, was found dead yesterday in
the woods near the Salmon Falls river
at Plummers ridge by a wood chopper.
There was a bullet hole through his
heart and bis little finger was shot oft.
A searching party was organized
amonir Mr. Tilton's friends on Saturday
morning, but the search was unsuccess
ful. A second party of .100 members was
organized vesterdav morning by Select
man Fred" Roberts'. The citizens were
called together by the ringing of the fire
alarm.
Medical Referee Dr. Walter J. Roberts
of Rocher-ter, after viewing the body, de
cided it was a case of accidental shoot
ing. The position of the wounds shows that
without doubt Mr. Tilton sat on a stump
and was holding the gun by the barrel
when it was discharged. It appears that
Mr Tilton walked a uhort distance after
the accident. a the gun was found .V
feet from the body.
Mr. Ti'ton was a son of Clark and
Sadie' (f!sb'i Tilton and was born in
Rochester. He was a member of the Red
Men. He is survive,! by father, wife,
two small children and one brother, Sum
ner, of Karniington.
BROKE UP PERFORMANCE.
ginn Feiners Made a Demonstration in
Cork, Ireland.
Cork. Ire., via London. Dee. 11. Twn
hundred Sinn Keiners stopped a charitable
nert.irmanee la-t ni'ht iren in tx half
l the lam'.ne me wmicr oi urn.
Thev saim Sinn Kein nps and shouted:
"I Rebellion' Down Recruiting:"
