A BOLT everybody who is really interested in Wash
ington, the city's and people's welfare, reads
The Herald. The HERALD averages more than
30.000 paid circulation daily, whitJi covers most of the
best homes in Washington.
^r?l?
AS first announced January I. 1916, The Herald
guarantee? full money ? Horth <o th* ?a?
chasers of article? advertised in tbr d)*pia?? (o'urnn?
of this paper by any Washington merchant
(Circular horttithei Vptm Rcqt?'
NO. 3373.
WEATHER-CLOUDY; WARMER; RAIN.
WASHINGTON. D. C?, MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 1916.
ONE CENT.
? ci CKSSt
SIX NEW HAVEN
MEN ACQUITTED;
DISAGREEONFIVE
Jury, Out Fifty-one Hours,
Makes Final Report and
Is Discharged.
VOTE 8 TO 4 TO FREE AU
William Rockefeller Among
Those Against Whom In
dictments Still Stand.
EXCITEMENT IN COURT ROOM
Tense Interest in Outcome of Govern
ment"? Case Charging Railway
Directors with Conspiracy.
t.pe?al lo T?a? WaaUa*m HafaM.
New York. Jan. S.-SIx of the eleven
defendants In the New Haven dlrecti>rs'
trlsl were acquitted today. The Jury mm
screed as to the other fl-re. Includine
William Rockefeller. Oa the final vota
retarding them the Jury stood rieht to
four In favor of acquittai. R. L. Batta
chief of the government counsel, stated
that they will be retried as soon as pos
sible.
The men acoultted were: C. Newton
Barney. Robert W. Taft. James 8. Hem
ingway. A. Heaton Robertson. Frederick
F. Br-ewster and Henry K. Menare
The ones acalnst whoni the Indir-tmenta
stand are: William Rockefeller, Charlea
F. Brooker. (Tharles M. Pratt. I-ewls Case
Led yard and Edward G). Robblna.
Jsrr Oat ? ir. ?-...- Hears.
All of the defendants, excepting Mc
llarc and William Rockefeller, who is
111. wer? tn court at 4:3? In the afternoon
when tbe Jury, which had been out Bfty
one hours, reported the verdict. Only a
few persons ?irere in the spectators' seats
At noon the Jury had reported that they
could not acre* Jude? Runt succested
that they might aeree as to some of the
defendants even though they could not
do so aa to all of them. He urced fur
ther delibei-atlon.
?*Then tha ,'uror? Sitai in fr>r Ihe laat
trma.thrv ?sarrled tbefr hats and coats,
the inej-vltabie sign that they had reached
an acre?AVM-n?F F-*ellriR was at a tension,
gvery one was eager as Foreman
Stephen Hlrschman replied to the usual
form Inquiry by Judge Hunt that the
jurv had agreed upon a verdltrt.
"As to some." asked Judge Hunt.
??Vea" was the answer.
raapoatelkle ta Agree aa All.
"Before receiving the -rerdlct." sala
Judge Hunt, "let me ask y?*>u. Mr. Fore
man whether or not you believe that It
Is impossible for you to agree upon a
verdict a? to all the defendants?"
It Is Impossible." answered the fore
man.
"Is that generally the view that the
court shall accept from all of you get,
tlemen. that >ou <?nnot agree as to all
the d-efendanta?"
Judge Hunt then asked sll the Jurors:
"It Is" came in volume from the Jury
bos.
"Aim am I to consider that to be. gen
tlemen, a request that you be relieved
from further deliberation as to those
lefendants concerning whom you do noi,
agree?**
"Tea," (?me the answer from the
jurors.
?Then the coort will receive the ver
?ilirt of the Jury." said Judge Hunt.
AaaaaaetS br Forcaua.
"We And the defendants Barney, Tsft,
Hemingway, Robertson. Brewster, and,
McHarg are not guilty." said Foreman
Hirsehman, rising and reading from a
slip of paper, 'and we fall to agree as
to Rockefeller, Brook?, Pratt, Ledyard
and Robblna"
A buss ef excitement ran through the
court room.
The acquitted men present sat back
Into their seats with alghe of relief. They
shook hands with each other. Their
counsel snd friends pressed forward to
congratulate them. For the moment the
less fortonate defendants were forgotUn.
Sxee-Jtlng by their respective circle.
Jmry Is D tar bars????.
Clerk Westervelt rapped for order, and
Judge Hunt discharged the Jury.
"The defendants not found guilty are
discharge?!." he added "As to the other
defendants, the eases will remain on the
calendar for such disposition as may be
made later."
The Jurors who had held out to the
last for the conviction of Rockefeller.
Brooker, Ledyard, Pratt, and Robblna.
it was stated, were Max Hartman, a
commission merchant; James H. Carton,
a manager; Peter Wagner, a bunder, and
C. A. Flint, an electrical engineer.
From Friday morning until shortly be
fore the final verdlrt was reached thir
teen ballots were taken, the result each
time being eight to four for acquittal.
Altogether eighteen ballota were taken.
The argumtrnt c-entered upon one Issue.
namely, whether or not the government
had established that a conspiracy to
monopolise the transportation of New
England on th? part of New Haven had
existed In or about ISSO. The Indictment
hanred that the conspiracy began then,
when th? Sherman anti-trust act wem
In-.o effect and ?-ontliijed 'P tc. within
-he three years immediately preceding
the data o? the Indictment. February ?,
Nine British Battleships
Lost Since War Began
?racial Cablo t? The WaalilDftmi Hernia
London. Jan. ?.?The Kin?
Kdward Vil ta tha ninth battle
ship lost by Great Britain dur
ine the war. Following in a list
of vessels of the battleship and
Dreadnought clasa which have
been sent to the bottom:
Audacious, mined off the Irish
coast October 37, 1(11.
Bulwark, blown, up at Sheer
ness November 2*. 1911.
Formidable, torpedoed tn the
English Channel January 1.
HIS.
Irresistible, mined by Turks In
Dardanelles March 18, 1915
Ocean, mined by Turks in
Dardanelles March II, 1915.
Goliath, torpedoed in Darda
nelles May 1*. 191?.
Triumph, torpedoed ln Darda
nelles May 2(, 1915.
Majestic, torpedoed In Darda
nelles May It. 1915
In aJdltlon th? British have
lost thirteen protected and ar
mored cruisers.
Th? loss of but one Oerman
battleship, the Pommern, 13.?in
tons, torpedoed by th? British
July ! tn th? Baltic, haa been
reported. Germany, however,
lost thlrty-fivs cruiser? to th?
British.
BATTLESHIP IS
SUNK BY MINE
British Dreadnought King Ed
ward VII Abandoned by
Her Crew.
NO LOSS OF LIFE AND ONLY
TWO OF HER MEN INJURED
Lost Vessel One of a Class of Eight
Ships Laid Down Thirteen
Years Ago.
1 Sperisi CM. to Th. Wiafclasue Her?laL
London. Jan. 9?H. M. 8. Kin? Kdward
VII. a battleship of K.3S0 tons dlspplsee
ment. struck a mine and owing to the
heavy sea was abandoned and sank with
in a short while, the official press bureau
announced tonight.
The ship's company was rracttrd ?rlth
no loss of life. Two of the men were In
jured.
The King Edward VTT was of a class
?of eight ?hip? laid down In 19S3-1 araet
: .^7Tm?sc,evi ht *i?sf,-at flh. i-arrled ? <"?*m
plarment of 7T7 officers and men In peace
trmee. Her s*aine ?rere four HWtnch, four
9.2-lnch. ten ?-Inch 12-pounder?, fourteen
3-poiinders snd two Maxims, besides fl?.
torpedo tubes submerged. Her lenath on
the water line was 4?9 feet, her beam 7?
feet and her drauelit 27. Her best record
speed was 191-1* knots.
Her sifter ?hips are the Common
wealth. Dominion. Hindustan, Zealandla,
Hlbernia. Africa and Brlttanla.
Austrians Fail to
Stop Russ Advance
Czar's Forces Pressing on to
Czernowitz, Is Petro
grad Report.
? a?-?: CM? to Tk. ?aiklir?? Herald.
London, Jan. 9.?The Austrians have
failed In a desperate attempt to halt the
Russian advance on Cxernowlts. An offl
clal statement received tonight from
Petrograd says that heavy losses were
Inflicted on the troops who, by violent
central attacks, attempted to turn the
Csar's great offensive.
On the short front northeast of Cserno
wlts slone the Austrians lost 20 officers
and 1.175 men in prisoners alone In a
single day.
They have been driven entirely from
the eastern bank of the Strypa River.
All their attempts to recatpure Csar
torysk. the Important toavn captured by
the Russians ln their advance on Kovel,
have failed. The Czar's drive continues
on th? entire ?tt)-mlle front from the
Prrpet to Roumanie. Ciernowitx, the
capital of Bukowina, and Kovel, the rail
way Junction key to Volhynia and the
fortresses of Doubno and Loutsk are
menaced.
Three Are Killed
In Pistol Battle
Brothers Die in Fight with
Hold-up Men on Kentucky
Mountain Road.
?pecUl to Tb? Wsjhinsteo Herald.
Lexington. Ky., Jan. ?.?Three men
were killed today In a pistol battle be
tween a ?roup of citizens and a robber
band. In the mountains of Harlan
County.
The dead are Wesley Blair, a wealthy
resident of Harlan County; Henry Blair,
a brother, and Henry Yeary. a negro
member of the bandit gang.
Four bandjt? tried to hold up the Blairs
at the point of pistais on a lonely moun
tain road The Blairs Immediately opened
(Ire on the ban,Ut.? killing Yeary. In the
ensuing battles two of the gang were
captured by men who cam? to trie aid of
the Blair?, only to find the brothers
shot to death The remaining member of
the gang, armed, is buaiin? In th? hula
TEACHERS REPLY
TO EXPLANATION
OF SCHOOL PLAN
Instructors Think Newman
Speech Does Not Justify
Proposed Change.
'HYDRA-HEADED SCHEME'
He Doesn't Explain How Poli
tics Are to Be Kept Out,
They Think.
BRAND IT AS INCONSISTENT
Assert They Would Be Victims of Po
litic?! Control and People Wouldn't
Be Given Direct Interest.
D?anylng that Commissioner Newman
msde a satisfactory explanation of the
Commissioners' plan for the proposed
change In the District school manage
ment In his address before the Federa
tion of Citisene' Associsllons on Satur
day evening, the press committee of the
High School Teachers* Association last
evening branded the scheme aa one th.-??
would be wholly unsatisfactory to the
parents and teachers of the District.
The teachers contend tbat the proposed
change would not give the people a more
dtrMt Interest in school affairs: that the
Commissioners have not explained how
they would keep politics out of the
schools; that they have not explained
why they did not consult the practice??
In i>ther cities, and thst their plan Is
Inconsistent with their theory.
The complete answer of the teachers
to the Commissioners' plan ls as follows:
"In his speech before the F?d?ration of
?Citizens' Associations. Commissioner
New-man made an explanation of the pro
posed law which, the press committee of
the High School Teachers' Associstlon
maintains, does not explain.
"First. It falls to expplain Just how this
proposed schi>ol change will give the peo
ple 'a more direct Interest in school af
fairs? than they have at present.' In sup
port of their ?-ontentlon tliat they have
:fc? -alabee of the p?oplo "at heart, the
Commissioners have clt?-d many times !
their deference to the wishes of the Park
View citisene" Association In the matter
of naming the Park view School. How,
then, have they maintained tlielr- policy
in framing a bill of such vital impor
tance to the whole community without
any consultation with the people of Wash
ington? Had they adhered to their policy,
they would not have met the storm of
protest that came from seventeen organi
sations in answer to the Commissioners'
revolutionary bill.
Polities mm*S Power.
"Second, the Commissioners did not
satisfactorily explain how their plan will
keep politics out of the school system. At
present, the Board of Education Is ap
pointed bv men who hold their office for
life snd hence are divorced as tor as pos
sible from politics! influence. Under the
proposed law, all appointments will
CONTINUS? ON PAOB TWO.
Mystery in Shot
That Kills Girl
Mary Johnson, 14, Dies?Sis
ter Finds Her Alone,
Rifle Nearby.
Mary Johnson. 14. shot while In her
home In Capitol Heights. Md.. Saturday
night, died last night In Casualty Hospi
tal. The bullet. Area from a Christmas
rifle given her brother, entered her fore
head and passed through her brain.
The girl died without recovering con
sciousnesa Maryland authorities believe
the shoot,?? was accidental.
It ls presumed the girl was playing
with the rifle when It wars accidentally
dlscharg?"*d. She was alone when the
Rhooting occurred, it is said. Miss John
son was a student In the Capitol Heights
school.
Jurymen will be sworn in over th?
body this morning, after .which it will
be removed to Capitol Heights for the
inquest.
LORD BURIOAM DEAD.
Owner of London Dally Telegraph
Expires at Asie of 82.
London. Jan. *.?Lord P'.?-nham. pro
prietor of the Lomtnn Daily Telegraph,
died here today. He was ? years old,
and had been critically 111 for several
weeks. Since his retirement from active
newspaper work several years ag?. Lord
Burnham had lived ?luletly at his coun
try seat with his family.
His eldest son, the Hon. Harry Law.
son, has been the active manager of the
Dally Telegraph and has represent?**! Lon
don districts In Parliament since 1886
Two of Lord Burnham'g three grandsons
have t>een killed In battle, and the third
is at the front with his regiment.
Kahn'? Third Gift to War Charity.
Paris, Jan. 9.?Otto Kahn, for the third
time since the beginning ot the war. has
given the prefect of police of Paris $2.000
for distribution In war charity channels.
Prominent Citizens Laud
One-Cent Sunday Herald
??- ?
Representative Residents of National Capital
Unanimous in Praise of Nickel Paper
Sold at One Cent
The initial issue of The Washington Herald's one-cent Sunday
morning paper yesterday was met by unanimous approval from the
citizens of Washington.
It was the consensus of opinion of the leading citizens that the
sale of a paper of the size and quality of The Washington Herald at
one cent is a remarkable achievement.
Unhesitating approbation and sincere tribute was the answer to
the successful effort of the publishers of Tlie Herald to present the
best newspaper at the lowest cost to the r?nder.
Here are the opinions of a few of the representative residents of
the National Capital:
P. T. Moren, president of the Cham
ber of Comm?re??: "I rrad The Mera.a
today. I am a subscriber. The en
terprise In offering a 1-cent Sunday
paper ia commendable and a new de
parture In journalism. NTot only ia the
penny Sunday paper one that' appeals to
the people, but It will appeal to
the advertiser and business men rener
ally, as the value of a paper to the ad
vertiper ti? ite circulation. It does not
take a captain of huplnea?? enterprise to
see that a penny Sunday paper will
quickly ??-?"?? a circulation that wii*
make It an advertlatna: 'medium worth
while?the people will demand thr penny
paper In preference to the higher priced
papers. The new penny Sunday Herald,
like the daily edition, was bright, newsy,
COVflNOED O?f PAQB TWO.
There May Be a Few to Wbom This Does Not Apply
?and The H'askington HERALD would thank you to advise in any
case where a representative of The HERALD failed to make prompt,
satisfactory; delivery of yesterday's Sunday HERALD at the nevo price
of OSE CENT.
JAMES R. COLBURN, Circuktio? Manager
Blame No One But
Yourself
?if you failed to secure a copy of yesterday's SUNDAY HERALD
at the new price of ONE CENT.
Without any brass band thumping or other unseemly noise,
the new price of ONE CENT w*s announced in these columns and
the fact made as ?etr as p?sole ttjat early ordering was abso
lutely essential if y#o were to avoid disappointment. Instead of
sounding the praises of this new ONE-CENT Sunday newspaper,
we left it to the public to judge the value, which judgment has now
been passed (see elsewhere).
Each route agent and nearly, if not all, news stands sent in
increased orders far in excess of any one day's circulation growth
ever recorded in this or any other city its size.
We began ihe press run a full half hour in advance of any
previous Sunday schedule and retained the entire press crew at
an overtime expense of between two and three hours and sup
plied every section of the city with a surplusage of Sunday
HERALDS greater by thousands than ever before issued by a
Washington newspaper.
The four-color comic sections are of a necessity printed in
advance. Before 9 o'clock Sunday morning this supply had been
entirely exhausted and we continued the press run with a "make
over" containing this box on the front page:
Notice With Apologies
Owing to the fact that the demand for today's Herald
exceeded all expectations, the comic section, which must
be ordered and printed in advance, does not appear with
this later edition which had to be run off to meet the un
expected demand for papers, a demand that has come from
all sections of the city. Thousands of additional copies of
the comic section have been ordered for next Sunday's
Herald, and we will be prepared to meet what has already
proved to be a record-breaking demand for a Washington
newspaper. However, the best way to make sure of re
ceiving your paper is to prder it served to you beginning
at once.
THE WASHINGTON HERALD.
From 10 a. m. to 10 p. m. we turned away would-be pur
chasers at our New York avenue office sales counter, and we re
gret their disappointment. All day long the telephones burned
with impatient demands for Sunday HERALDS that could not be
supplied.
There is just one copy of yesterday's Sunday HERALD in
the office as this is written. If all the plates are still intact a
few thousand more copies (without the color comics) will have
been printed for distribution at the ONE-CENT price just as long
as the supply lasts.
If You Are Numbered Among
the Disappointed Fill Out
Coupon and Mail
NOW!
ALLIES GIVE UP
ATDARDANELLES;
ALL TROOPS QUIT
Gallipoli Peninsula Complete
ly Evacuated Is London
Official Report.
TURKS TELL OF BIG FIGHT
Constantinople Reports Fail
to Agree with British State
ment Claiming No Losses.
ALL SERVICEABLE GUNS SAVED
Seventeen Wornout Cannon Blown Up
Before Leaving. Gen. Monro
Says in His Report.
Hpe??l Cabi# te Th* Wuhtaeton HersM.
Isondon. Jan. 9.?The Offi< ?a! Pratf Bu-j
rr-au tonight gave out the following:
"Cren. Sir Charles Monro reports the!
complete evacuation of Gallipoli penta- '
eula has been successfully carried out.
All the iruns and howltrers were got
away with the exception of seventeen
worn-out guns which were blown up
before leaving.
"The English casualties were one'
wounded. The French suffered no caa-|
ualties."
Gen. Monro states that the successful
accomplishment of this difficult task was
due prlnlcpally to Gens. Bird wood and
l>avls.
Bays His; flattie Ma? ? '.?ah.
An Amsterdam dispatch reads:
"The British at-, a result of a violent
battle have completely evacuated Sed-ul
Bahr, with srreat losses, says a dispatch ?
from Constantinople. Not a single man ;
remained behind. The dispatch adds ?
that newspaper reports from_ the Dar- j
dandles say the Turkish troop* have j
completely driven the French and Brit- ?
lsh from Sed-ul Bahr, and that Galli- :
poli peninsula Is now clear of the enemy." i
British ..*??.. i?n?*rf.
The British ramtwUru tn the DardiKi?lles ?
Is known to have cost the government
lU.lioa, officers and men, killed and wound
ed. This does not include 9G.?83 who were
Invalided on account of sickness. Nor do
the figures Include the number of killed
and wounded In the withdrawal from
Suvla Bay. They were Issued on Decem
ber 24 last, end were to December 9, in
clusive.
Contradictory reports were current re
garding the losses during the with
drawal. Premier Aanulth officially an
nounced that the withdrawal had been ac
complished with "two military and two
naval men wounded.*' The official state
ment from Constantinople, however, de
clared that ''heavy loases had been In
flicted upon British."
Reports Are Contradictor?.
Quite as contradictory are the officiai
figures given out by the British. Under
secretary for War Tennant on December
23 placed the ligures at 112,921. Yet on
the following day Premier Asqulth an
nounced that they amounted to 114,555.
It has been these contradictory reports
and the apparent attempts to conceal th*?
real condition of affaire lu the Darda
nelles campaign ,that has aroused the
British public.
The drive for Constantinople was start
ed on February 2f>, 151a. For three days
a naval battle waged. By February ?**
the allied fleets had demolished four of
the forts at the entrance of the Darda
nelles. On March 7 It was stated that
mine sweepers were at work within tbe
straits, that the Queen Elisabeth was
bombarding the land defenses, and that
many of the batteries inside the straits
had been silenced. There was rejoicing
throughout the British fclxnplre.
Hired to Start
Strike They Say
Alleged Confession by Aus
trians Held in Jail at
Youngstown.
Special to Tbe .VasbtnarUsa Hertl
Youngstown. Ohio. Jan. 9?The investi
gation by both Federal and Mahonlng
County authorities into mob violence at
the plant of the Younirstown Ste^l and
Tube Company last Friday, ?'hen taco
persons were killed, many wounded and
tl .000.000 worth of property dasstroyad,
took a new turn tonight whan County
Dftective Kane said that two Austrians
In the county jail here have made con
fession? in which they said th?y were
sent here from New York tap start the
?jirike ?o as to prevent the manufacture
ot war munitions for the allies. The men
are Dan Kleck aod John Brisky. Th?)
(ave their address as S English aquara.
New York.
"It would be useleaa for us to attempt
to operate our plant while some of the
workers are In the present frame of
mind.'' said J. A. Campbell, president ??
the Younsrstown Sheet and Tube Com
pany, tonight. TSe will not Import strike
breakers. I am confident thst outs?at
Influen?a*? were responsible for the shoot
ing and destruction of iroperty."
42 Perish As Big
Powder Plant of
Duponts Blows Up
Terrific Explosion Early This Morning'Cuts
Off All Communication by Boat or Wire
Between Carney s Point and Wil
mington, Delaware.
MEN ON FERRYBOAT STUNNED
Shock Throtrs Them off Their Feet and Many are
Injured?Had fust Left the Works?St\y Filled
With Terrible Glare as Buildings are Shattered
Spretai ?)? Tke ?.?. ?.?>??*,?? .??...?
Wilmington, Del., Jan. 10 (Monday).?Forty-two are kill?ed and mjerrd
as the result of an explosion early this morning in die Carneys Point, N. J.,
plant of the Dupont PowcWr Company. The temfcc force of th? exi-iosior.
sloppedjhe entire service between Carneys Point and this? city ana made it
impossible at that time to get complete details. It was 12:25 o'clock when
ihe huge blending tower containing thousands of pounds of powder bi?rw up
and the force shook this city. Philadelphia, Camden and the country fot
miles around.
??IGHT SHUT ON FEBBTBOAT
The early night shift had completed work but a f*rw momenti beiore
and had debarked on the ferryboat Long Beach to go fron Penns Grove. Bea.
Carneys Point, to this city.
The boat was bht a few hundred feet from shore when die crash rmt
The men on the boat were hurled about like ninepins.
Every light on the vessels was extinguished.
BRIGHT GLABE FILLS THE SET
A bright glare of light filled the sky as the blending tower was teen tc
rise in the air. Then came darkness and the rain of the tower aa it de
scended in fragments. The "Long Beach" put on full speed for WdaMgtaa
without going back for details.
The workmen on the "Long B?tach" were nearly crazed with the terroi
of their narrow escape, and were able to give bul u>coh?tTent ?i?rta3? TWy
??id when they qui' work ano'her fore?. Equally large went on dut? a' Car
neys Point. They ?1?o **il that theri*was a special train avrjio^ otTmV
Penns Grove track when the explosion came and that the dead and wound?
would be taken to Camden Hospitals in it.
MAT HAVE BEEN TWO EXPLOSIOKS
It was impossible at that hour to get craft to put aero? to Caroeyi
Point. Many of the workmen who were on the Long Beach said thev heart
two explosions coming close together. Tbey were not sure of this bream?
they had been partially stunned.
They described the blem-fcng tower as being shaped like a grain eforalor
In it were blende the component parts which go to make the fodder tw
the big guns. Between forty and fifty men ??ere employed about the blendinj
tower and that caused the report that that number had met death or beet
injured.
Strike Ordered
On Ship Wharves
4,000 Baltimore ?Longshore
men Vote to Demand
Higher Wage Scale.
Sprcial to Thm Weehinfftrwi Hrr%W.
Baiti mort?, Jan. 9.?Four thousand long
shoremen mill strike tomorrow morning
because they believe they are being op
pressed by agencies employing' them. In
asmuch as that compared to other cities,
their wages ara lower and their ganes
inadequate. They mean to ask through
their leaders a wage Increase of 9 cents
and hour and augmented gang? of twen
ty-three Instead of eighteen. All tbe lo
cal councils of the union held meetings
today and agreed to call the strike ?and
penalise any member of the organisation
?ho reports for work. Pickets will be
placed at the various plere and docks
During executive meetings tajftgtit cer
tain differences arose and efforts were
made to induce Samuel Gompers. presi
dent of the Federation -of ?Labor, to
?come here from Washington. At a late
hour he had not arrived.
German Ainren ?Raid Saloniki.
Home. Jan t.?A dispatch from Athens
state? that German aeroplanes have
again raided Saloniki without result
3 Women Robbed
By Purse Grabbers
Colored Man Believed to Be
Thief in Two Cases ; White
Bov Third Bandit.
Three women wars rabber) yaitar
day by handbar grabbers? It 1? be
' lieved the purses of two of tha weaa
| en w.re taken by Usa aaa?. anea. ?
negro. Th. third woman waa rebbes
by a white boy
Mra. Pater J Melatyra, ?? ?
?treat northweat, walking near Wash
ington Ctrele, t? Tw??aty-feurtli ?street
? waa robbed by a negro who ran ai
? nd grabbed her puras. 8h? mad. a?
outer?-, but the ?colored ?nan .?raped
A half hour later Mabel Maraaoot
16J? First ?treet northwest, waa rob
? bed at Twenty -eecoad street aad
Pennsylvania avenase by a aaero.
A youth at probably II yaan
snatched a pur?? from Mra. Mavrtea
Hewlett, il* Twelfth et raset nortk
weal, at Sixteenth and Corto???
streets.
Turk? Beia? aVllie*?' Eurtyri
Berlin. Jaa t?Ta* Turkish ?r<nrsisaa
a? ? rarrlsasJ for the arrea* ot th* Turk
??h cceneul at Saloniki, has arreeted tat
French sad Ersg?i*? officer? who had re
meine?! la tha Consta ? tin r,ple a rebanase?
SEND IN YOUR ORDER NOW.
Daily, lc-Sunday, lc
DAILY AND SUNDAY
BY CARRIER. 30C A MONTH.
NAME.
ADDRESS .
