ELECTRIFYING THE RAILROADS
Epochmaklng advance In long distance
traction scored on a Rocky Moun
tain division.
IN NEXT SUNDAY'S SUN.
THE WEATHER FOREC
Cloudy, warmer to-day.; J
rain or snow to-morrow ;,s
Highest temperature yesterda;
Detailed wcnthor, mall mid marl no re
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 132.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 1916. Copyright, 101. by the Sun 1'rtnUng and PublUhino AstovMlon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
Ssvlvl
SBB
WILSON FEARS
DEFEAT FOR HIS
DEFENCE PLAN
IVill Summon Leaders to
Deride on a 3fore Ag
gressive Campaign.
CO. I. AID KKQl'MKD
TO PASS MEASURES
WtOt'Ni.TciN. Jan, ?. President Wll
im nd ' s ndvlers aro now ullva to the
(Ct lint It "I" require all the power of
lb, Ailinml-ttatluii, supplemented by lte
jublicui support, to push the prepared
rF!. programme through Congrem, and
ntn ticn there Is grave danger of failure
In rt if ml to the army plan.
The foreign complications Involving
th t'intert Stales have tended to ob
icure the developments In the prepared
.(. iMiir, but Administration leaders
it decided now that a strong public
OJinintgn must bo undertaken and no
Mue .est m combating the uttacka tlr.it
re t'ni'e made on the I'resldent' pro
jtammc This Congtess came Into being on
Icriiibr . yet r.ii substantial progress
lit txtn made on the defence bills and
do coti!idratUn has been given to reve
rue m'Jui" to defray the cost of army
ml navy expansion that the President
li .:! ..- imperative.
It li rather slsnltlcant that all speeches
c the subject of defence delivered thus
itr tills session by House Democrats
bale bet it hurshly critical of the Presi
dent tirojrainuie. Slgnltlcance also Is
attic, e i t i the fact that up to date no
Auni.n..tratlii leader In the House or
unite lias taken the mips to make a
dtnii n siiiport of the programme or
t. reply U the party critics who have
il it.
Ilrpnhllcuii Aid .rrriiiar),
1 i now known by everybody In the
ilojtc. vvhcie defence bills are to be
ins- ated. that tin- I'resldent will have
to ilf::iI on llepubllcan votes to put
tcruush his programmo In tlrat body.
I'rrdl tiuii Is made that approximately
nty Democrats will desert the Adminis
tration on this proposition.
As the Democrats now have only a
Murltv of 2i In the House It will thus
. . ........ ... ian.i..i .. .i . . ti, i
it itcn that the Administration will be
cPell to Heer a course that will pponi,blt. for' ,h, ttHck ,),. United
' th,c,-, '"W-ort of u considerable es prmplly w, demand satlsfac
'tnttc'CotZt. of the defence I '" " """ wIMnd a d,s-
bills have been active and alert from : ' "
the beginning of the session, whereas
the supporters of the Administration I A DP I III 71711 TADPUDC
programme have been singularly passive i UnUnllllOIjl rUIlUuIlD
ttri lu perfected a good working or-I
(an.tatlon, and they are playing for
ttUy.
In furthering the campaign of delay
they lu the support of Itepresentatlve
Klfhtn, the Deinocratlu House leader,
tad are being openly encouraged to tight
,h. 1 .1... ...I-. . . I,... V... 111111..... I 1 I .
Mia t,ll, 111. ill .111UII V 11 III.UIII U. l)lUII.
In Its endeavors to push the defence
bllU through Congress the Ailmlnlstru
Uon has undoubtedly been handicapped
by the attitude, of Hit: responsible Demo-
ciatlc leaders In the two houses. Hep-,
ireii',i le Kltchlii Is an out and out ! .
oriiomnt of iireparedness as advocated I SofTHINOTON. Conn.. Jan. 9. Federal
by the President, while Senator Kern of I liUthorltles who aru Investigating the
Indiana, the Senate leader. Is a critic ; ,,,...,. .... whlch Louis K. t'urtlss em
(..the p,ucy and will lend no help to , methods ti wnn.ni.uui .,
Ui Administration In this emcreency. beled I&7.500 from the Southing on
( 'iiiffreiice for Action.
Tifre Is good reason to believe that
i lonferencu will be held soon at the .
White House to devise ways and means
to pu' the d. fence bills through the
Hou-e as expeditiously as possible. As
ilium ale now drifting action on the
i would be delaed until late In the
kisser, whereas the Administration
a-i - them i.ti-lu..! iilnnir 1,,-fnr,. i Ii a
ixmuiratli national convention Is called .
I' ui,itr uii dune 1 1,
b i understood that the I
resident
with the
. ...o .i,i.u. ..... vu.i.c. n.... ...
,"ir.i 111 i ongress wno iaor ine no-
If prowl amine, with a view to forcing
um-ju,,.iion of moru aggressive methods
In l.aMilltiiL' the .,,..:.r..
in i.a'eiiitig the measures.
At pr.m,t theie Is no one In Con-
S..i ... whom the advocates of pre-
I Mli.-s may look a the otllclal
, ,,., i -a 1.1.1. iuuii un uuuiui
i'OKim.an of the Administration. The
w:-.re ptogr.imiue is equally divided
iii the IIoiim. between the Military and
.s v. I oinni ttees, and neither has made
'J " mti.tl progicss on any twnd-
b lr"pos:liou, This defect In organ
iz.it .i, , undeintoud, will noon be
el b d ii, qlon of the President.
IWore i 'ongress met It was the hope
1 e Voiniiustrutlon that Speaker
t.rk vvou.tl direct the fight for pre
t,.fii .u the I loose. Aside fiom dc
'umg Mi.it he favored "adequate de
hn Mi Clark, however, has had
''iLng i , s,.y on the subject since Con
kttti nut
tlbalr.M'tlte i'netles.
On Monday of last week the House
.n i uiiniilttee began consideration
ot th- naval appropriation bill. Hear
w e held dally. Through ob
n U 't vi ',n ties Inlerpohed by ltepresen
vn Hensley and tiallaway, "little
'') ini Miiiers, only a few paragraphs
f "ic b I wcte considered during the
I'ui'h, unoie "little navy" members,
hi-a.liii t,. Heprchentatlve Heusley, In
'I'll I ii befoie Congress adopts the
owni-i ij.Ms it bhall pause In Its labots
I" liue-i.K.ite the vailous organizations
''at h.ive been formed to further the
""e "t i.ii paredness. 'n.e eubject will
ome up n,r ouslderalioii to-motrow be
f"rs the , M, Committee on Itules. The
itaiion ioi such an Inquliy was begun
Y 'live who hope by thUi means to
1 "ion i, t,i teles In the pathwuy of the
"!,,. n.
It n.a. be said on authority that the
A'itmri -1 -aiifin has been adviseil tllat
Ih'i" nile prospect for the adoption
u , iiqiiete piogrammo to enlatge
"v irfi.'i ,lf..i.,,Au .r 11,., nttntrv. Th.r.
is hit-, jpp.jsition to the creation of a
e' m i . , irmy as recommended by
ei-eiir, Garrison. The Idea !h iireva
'"I tl.a S... ,etaiy Gairlson would build
tin ,.i neiunl army at the expense
'' ",e ,ite militia and thin has moused
I.OV',1
Wli,, he .oimiient.il army plan will
''st(ii,i,, i,,,fed ,'ind possibly defeated
'''"y uf the b.iduis believe that Con
i us sit-slon will establish the
n'u a pay hauls. Whether Con-
""s i, .oi.sent to enlarge the mobile
""nj ,.n ,ii.-n question. It seems as
kurr,l t ,, ,(, ,.011!t ,efeni,eti will bo
'Ifiig' ,f, and additional approprla
' . owed for field artillery,
Ai general pioposltlon, however,
'r " s a nsisltlou nmon advocates
f "" .limns lo expend the greater
18 ' iddlllonal approtirlatlonH for
"MiniiifHK on the navy. The army
f"' f the Administration pro-
I's'i.ii.t i.avu been received coldly.
U Boat Issue Near End;
To Call Halt on Britain
Lusitania Settlement This Week to Be Followed by a
Sharp Protest to England on the
Ship Seizures.
WAMllNfiTON, Jan. . State Depart
ment officials are, convinced to-night of
the good faith of both Germany and
AUKtrla In their willingness to keep their
submarine warfare within the, bounds of
International law and expect that within
a reasonably short time Oermany will
make the final move necessary for a
complete settlement of the l.usltanla
Issue.
In high Administration circles the
belief was expressed that a settlement
will be reached this week. It In under
stood that Secretary Lansing after a
conference with the President hns com
pared notes with Count von Ilernstorff
on the tentative draft of a formal com
munication from the German Govern
merit repllng to the still unanswered
American noto of July 21, 1915, and
acceding; to the demands of the United
State for a settlement of the l.usl
tanla controversy.
This settlement Is expected to embrace
what the United States can accept as
a disavowal of the attack on the Cunard
liner, as well as an agreement for the
payment of a money Indemnity for the
110 American Uvea lost when the vessel
wan sunk.
Although still at odds on the form qf
this dlsuvowal the two Powers, high
olUcials of the State Department pre
dicted to-night, would reach a satisfac
tory agreement. Disavowal of the at
tack, reparation for the lives lost and
the assurances which Oermany has al
ready given that she will nblde by the
accepted rules of warfare, will comprise
everything that I'resldent Wilson de
manded In his Inst formal note In the
Lusitania dispute the note of July SI,
1915. rather than sign which .Mr. Hryan
resigned from the Cabinet.
The State Department Is still larking
evidence necessary to prove that the Hrlt
Ish liner Persia was attacked by a sub
marln; and l now awaiting the outcome
of the otllclal Inquiries which the Ger
man and Austrian Governments are
making of their submarine commanders
In the Mediterranean. Unless these in-
vestlgatlons show that a German or -
Austrian submarine was responsible the I
American Government. It is admitted In '
Administration circles, will be compelled I
... t.,r, .ii.i.ifii I..
(satisfaction In this case. I
un ine ow.er .in...., u n. jicintiru, .,
,,....,.. i,,...!.
On tlie other nanu. it is preincien, ii
BACK Of BANK THEFT
E.VIMTtS
Say Profi'SMoiials
Holppfl Ciihliier Curtiss hi
Loot tit Soutjiiiifiton.
, National llanK. or which ne . '"-',
naim. ......... ,
came to the conclusion io-iiimh
must have had outside help,
curtiss
ommiited suicide last Wednesday when
c , , . ., ,, ..-..i,,.. vee. 1
he learned that Hank Lxammer ere
man was Inspecting the vaults. ,
Tii mithorltics have found that Cur- I
, ,,,,,.. ,i, rommerclal paper of
" .. .
..ver.il concerns or national riiu..iwii
,, deposit In the hank's vaults and ro-
..i.i it hi' fnreisl duulicatea. It Is the
vunninK workmanship of
exceeding!'
- - .
these lorgeries u..i -. ,,,
elusion that Curtiss could not have made
them alone.
tu thenrv has been advanced that ne
The theory nan oeen
procured the forged paper from smne
clique of professlona forgers who "re
In the business on a huge scale . that In
in win ..i.e. "" " - -
this he was only a single
a prosperous torgerj
Important arrests will follow II tne lean-
ers of the forgery busines can ne run
down. ,.
Vice-President am. '"" ' ' '."V;.l I corporiitlon ; from whom It was acquired
Lewis said this afternoon that bflnM UIlI, ,e price paid; whether It Is pre
was solvent and ex .11 te 1 1 llg res wl , th J ,., , , ' nf
. "Mi, .-i "g,:., 'r o ' e' ur '"v'".'nds he has received fiom it ; the
committed n.""'?."r." ""''""
plus the 08 "'1Un '''' efJ ri.y ?.
htiitv a ml still have assets or
blllty
701.3
atlll Still nae '--"' ".'-.. I
a fact which win rores.ai. a,.,
run by depositors,
PICKED TO HEAR CITY "KICKS."
. ina.iirMtn f'fMiitilfilnta
Aiiru
U.tnt lllm.
An.ofllclal shock absorber has been
.imolnte bv the Institute for Public
Service to receive all kicks and brick-1
bats aimed at Greater New ork. The
announcement Issued jesterday etates
that "any citizen or city employee who
has a fact, a uiggcsiiun "' " " ""
i..i. i.. ..- .i,. feet will belli Greater
NVw York can have it looked Into nnd
followed up until It Is proved helpful
. :' . . ...Ml u-.lln
or not heiprui " n r -
to William II. Allen, institute lor t un-
i. r.t ('hamlscrs street." Mr.
tit... .. . 'i.lreadv received complaints
like the following:
That there Is a shortage of at lenst
.33,oi)0,nOO In .llnanclal provisions for
the eumwty,
That the city, with a Public Service
Commission and engineers ""'I "rfrt"
of all kinds. Ik contributing 12,000. to
a private utilities bureau.
That a city examiner of accounts Is
used as a press ngent.
That misleading attendance figures
are given out for the public schnpls.
That Imporlunt facts about city gov
ernment are being misrepresented, as
III the Clly Cluimberlaln'H published
comparisons or .Mayor .tnicne s nu-
ministration wll preceding udmlnlslra
Th'nt city ofllcerH have declined to
Investigate plans for reducing the cost
of street cleaning and garbage disposal,
The .best way to end unfounded criti
cism and to utlllxe helpful suggeetlon,
Mr. Allen sayti, Is to bring; It Into the
open nnd Investigate It.
I)' Brltlah I.oaaea l.BllT.
Special Cable Dtipntch lo Tin Sex.
I)NPON Jn. . To-day's, oftlclal cas
ually list covering all Hrltish fronts
aivea the number of olllcera at 46, of
whom 15 were killed, and that of men at
I 051, of whom 431 were kjjjed.
avowal, punishment of in-' omiuander
and reparntlon. The note will take the
form of n demand for n new nnd broader
expression from nil th central Powers,
Including Turkey anil llulgarla, ns to
their willingness to respect International
law.
Only the merest technicalities, olllcials
bellevi aland In the way of a final ad
justment of the William P. Frye case.
Germany's latest note on this dispute Is
regarded at the State Department as
thoroughly satisfactory, especially l the ! VAsiit.vaTtf. Jan. 9. The. Cbambet
pledge It contains not to turn psssengers of ijommerco of the United Slates made
nnd crews loose In small boats on the lptl,,,,c to-nbrlrt a tate-ment by Attorney
open seas- In cases where It becomes ...... n...
necessary to destroy contraband laden "nral Oretrory aa to the future illc
American vesol. of the Department of Justice In tepird
The unwillingness of Germany to sub. to the enforcement of the anti-trust laws,
scribe to the appointment of n umpire Thp B,ntem?nl ,.allpd fortll Viy ,lle
to sit with tho American nnd German ... .... . .. ..
commlsslonetK selected to appraise the uncertainly which has exlrted In the
ilamages resulting from the destruction I minds of business men by reason of the
of the Frye. "tliclals regard as a tneic i latest nnti-trunt lejltlatlon, both as to
owrcome "" ,1,n "'"""'"""'P 0 h- established be-
Wltb the submailne controxersy well
on the way to amicable adjustment, as
American ntllclaN see It, tho Stale De
partment may now pmceed to take up
aggressively the various grievances
whl h the l'nlted States holds against
Great llrltalu and her allies for what
Is legarded by this country ns unwar
ranted Interference with American trade.
Great llrltalu already has before her
the American note of October 21. 19 1 5, '
protesting against the Ilritlsh orders In
council mill the protest Just sent against
Interference with American malls to and
from Germany.
Within a few days Secretary Lansing
Is expected to send a comprehensive
note protesting against the inclusion III
the llrltlt-h list of nbsolute contraband
of certain articles of commerce snih ns
para
graph of the note of October 21, which
leads:
'This task of championing the Inleg-
rlty of neutral rights which hae re.
reived the sanction or the civilized world
against the lawless conduct of bel-
llgerents arising out of the bitterness
of the great conflict which Is now wast-
Ing the countries of Hurope the l'nlted
u...i.. m.i. ..-ii.itiiiclv ,.,s,,n... ami in
the accomplishment of that task It will
devote Its energies, exercising alwass
that Imiiartlalltv which from the out-
break of the war It has sought to exer-
else In Its relations with the warring
nation."
HUNT FOR ELEVATED
THIRD TRACK GRAFT
TlinmiiMin Coiiiiiiittt't' Wants
to Know of OiitMile (iiiins
ol Knilwny Offici'iN.
cotton and foodstuffs when consigned " . ..' ." '. '"V , "J '" '""
to neutral countries In northern Lurope. ' 1 ' '"'; J ' f, m.ini.poCxi- New
low Its p-otesisu rhe'AlllXJroust " ""' "-"" tlo fo
IS, ' In t!!e !d;,n! ' "rl!1 'V!", ' v.r uce,.aln ever since yeltw,ay llfl,
Is due to the fact that Irr the minds were 111 court when the verdict was an
i:presslnc the belief that the cost of 'f many It luis come to be thought of as ,,mmc,.ii Judge Hunt formally ordeied
third tracking three elev d railway VT, ot'hir the discharge of the acquitted e.v-dl-
lines In Manhattan was much greater law(li ewelnlly as tegards the function ' lectors.
than It should have bten, because com- and duty of thojie charged with Its en- i. u'lhp announced intention of the
pany illjeetors have Interests 111 supply forrcmciit. ....i i.. move the live other
,im eonstiuctlon enterprises. State Sen-
;1or (ieurge F. Thompson made prepara-
tlous yesterd.i.v for n fresh linn of In-
qulry by the 1 glslallve committee In
vestlgatlng the Public Service I'ommls
,. ..j,,,
In-
Senator Thompson sent letters on Sat
urday to olllrers and dlieetors of true
tlon companies asking for the names
Miihli esses.
s.ilaileH and ollicial titles of I
.. . I,!,il,,
their several departments; the names
of attorne.vs under general or special
retainer, for what they were letalned.
land the aiuouiils paid to these attorneys.
....... ..... ...iiwuum li.llll in llier.e ,niuinr)n.
.much inoie inriiriiiiitlon la souglil In let- i
(cr! wm fim ,.,,,, I
Ilicli ollliei- imil illieemr is asked to i
,,. .... .., . -
send to the Thompson unlttee's ac
, ,, (lf . .i.rpora-
hJ ,), provisions
)f , , which he '
may have a tlnancial Interest or with I
wm., . ),;! perninnl business rela-
t)nH ( 19) , or H(i h o
M(l(( !is( value of the stock
owned or controlled bv blm In each
par value of hi.n.ls owned by him; u
.description thereof, from whom acquired
...... ,...'.. ...
mid the nrlee n.lhl ! ul.nt Interest lie
,,,...,. ,p '
whom acquired, the pike paid and the
amount received on the Investment,
The names are suught also of cor
porations, firms and Individuals having
had flnauiial relations wjth em porallons,
IjirmH ami ImllvMua.n with which the
..MI..AM .llt.x. t..t- lt...l ts...,1.,A..u -,.....
actions In lf.ll or Uir.. Details of
the value of slocks and bonds, from
whom acquired and at what cost, and
the amount of rt turns ate asked for In
these eases also. Finally, Senator
Thompson asUs:
"Have, you loaned money to or bor
rowed money from any corporation, firm
or Individual, or any employee thereof,
, subject to the piovlsliuiH of the public
I wnri'li'A It,..' .llirltu 1 l t i u.itl Kit-.' ll-i
' ' 7 . , .
as
i.n.v . ..i ..!,.. ...n. or lu.iivii.uai, or
1 any employee
, ...... e....je. i ui wun
oney to or borrowed money
Please give names, dates
, law. loaned nmne
from you?
and amounts.
Senator Thompson left last night for
Lockport, his home. He will appear as
j attorney In the trials of two cases and
letiirn lo this city to resume the com
mittee's hearings on Thursday.
MRS. W. 1 BRYAN FOR WILSON.
Her Xnnif Heads 1. 1st nf Women
I'atorli.K Ills lleelectlon.
j Wasiiiniiton. Jan !, At leiint one
ineni...'. ... ...i- ...... i.j o wuunm j...'.. '""''"':'". "r -"""'. -wenerai
Itryan seems to be supporting ihe move
nient for the reelection of President Wll
son, Tho member Is Mis, William J,
Hrynn.
At a meellisg of the Woman's Na
tional Democratic League, which has
Just r.ed lis convention nt the capl
tal, a special meeting was called for
tn-iunnow to oiganl.e the Wilson Home
Guards,
At Ihe same meeting Hie league
pledged lis support to the Piesldent and
decided lo enter actively Into Ihe cam-
palgn for Ids leelectlon, Al Ihe head
of the list of dlieclois of the Woman's
National Demociallo l.eaguu who were
ieelecle.1 Is Die name of Mm. WlllUm J,
iiryan of Ncbiaska.
NO HARASSING
OF BUSINESS,
SAYS GREGORY
Attorney-General Defines
V. S. Attitude Under
. Anti-Trust. Laws.
WILL HE LENIENT TO,
INNOCENT OFFENDERS
,'" - n mc wpanmem oi juauce anu me
new Federal Trade Commission at point
when their Jurisdiction seemed to over
lap and also ns to the probable attitude
of the Department of Justice In regard
to future antl-tiust proceedings.
Attorney-General Gregojy gives the
asxuratice that In oases where tieion
have entered Into a tra.imu'tIon In good
faith believing It to be lawful and later
n accused of vlrntln the law, the
I Department will not lnok evtteine
penalties" against them. The Album-'-I
.General contends that this has i.ecn the '
iRillcy of the DeiTtincn:.
' Problem of CooprrnlliiK.
M ,,rFI,n... ., .....ii..,, ... . i
Z ... i .
tllA f.1tmillftiiin ii nu r,..n.l
The Attorney." ,-neral seem- to In-
dlcate that In cases er which both
' , ' " , " ', ' '
,,. ' . .. . ' , . ., '
,t,'(" .,.m,"'' the 'l.iy,,m
"eumment will aw. ill the conclusion of
Io" !,lro""1R'', ,jnl;1"'.'
" '' " " " ch mml" 8
Junmllctlon Is first Invoked.
tnMBmX,uZTuXZ i.v"'.!
1,1 T' nue-iions pui to mm uy a
"I'ecial committee of tile natlon.il wham
ber. headed by Henry A. Wheeler, vice-
p'"l.,,'m r I'nlon Trust Company
of Chicago. IMher memlieis of the mm
nrittee are Itus.i 11. Ilutler of Chloxno.
Joseph P. Cotton of Nor York. Alfred
It. Koch of Toledo, president of the Na
tional detail Dry Goods Association: W.
U Saunders of New York. Piof, II. ft.
Ser- of Columbln "ITnlvoesiti- Al...
under W. Smith of Atlanta,' Ga. : Guy K. could not ngree ate William Itnckeffl
Trlpp of New York and Dr I. i White, Wr c-li'irloK l". Ilrooker of Ansonla.
S,.vte Geoloilst of West Vlrgl.lla. ler. v. n.iri. s ,...,,,,.
Ccnn.; t hnr'es M. Pratt of llrooklyn,
IteiMirt of the Coiiitulttee. , .. i.edvard and Kdward I).
The lesults of the committee's Inter
I view were issnen oy ine national cham
ber In the following form- ,. T l t'.mrl.
"My way of Introduction the Attorney- " '-,.
General expres"sl a view that much of ,,f Hie defnulants except William
ine iiiisuniiersianiiing uiai exisis In some
quarters In elation to the Sherman act
"This, he pohiled out. is not the case
Justice In the same manner lind neconl.
.'t'lVer
with
!
Intr to the same rules of policy a other
statutes with the same care and
nettling in,tr .mr !.. -.,n ll..l..
Intentional violations me' nroeee.t.d
are proceeded
as under other I
liirtilli.t vbrninn-lv
utatutes. i
"Whewi. as with all statutes, doubtful
.... i.rNe In nhlrb there u.i. in.
t.,,. to vlol.il
the law they aie dealt
,, JuM .M, MmiUr t.HSt,s ,, otherf
H,.ule, urt. dealt with; flint Is. wit), a
statutes are
view to enfoidim
'"'"'t' 'm,
clng strict compliance with
without uniiecensarlly .tig-
.' .
"' w...ieie.T..riij imr.ieuuig wun
,,.,.., i0n persons who have bef. ,mie l.
" L,Xn is
ad'. ! iVcnlfv' heir tols 1 e
tfU,1 " ,M,lf ,1,,lr ,",!'u,
id
I'eralalent llrrri-senlntlnn.
"Another cause of this misunderstand-
big, said the Attorney-General. Is the
nenslsteut uilsreiircieutatloii n uldel, I
the Sherman act has been subjected by
propagandist-, who are opposed to the I
eoiifpetltlve principle and who seek to
undermine that principle by attemntlnel
to create In the public mind misgivings
and confusion, both as to the meaning
is
and as to the manner
law embodtlng it.
"Four points were tbeji taken up:
First, the complaint that the Inw Is
unccilalii; second, the policy of the De
partment of Justice as regards the
method of enforcing the law In ad
. mltteclly doubtful cwn ; thint, th nioMiin
I ...I ... i I... .1... f... a
against unjust prosecutions: fou.th, ,1,,
policy of the Depaitmuit In cases where
) It ami the Federal Trade Commission
are ooin cnaigen wun ine enrorcement
of the law.
"I'onceinlns tlie first point, the Attor.
ney-General tated that while concededly
there Is in tlie law of restraint of trade,
an area of doubt. In the vast majority .
of cases It Is not din cult to ,e wh'er
a proposed transaction Is or Is not In
I l"1""'"' i'."" " or is not in
, violation of the statute, and the doubt
1 is rertalnly no grsater than that which
, accepted as 1. maltfr of course In tlie
app,,eatlons of other laws
mien o.iinii as mere is, ne sta ltd.
will be gieatly reduced by decisions In
the shipping pool ct.se, the antluaclte
coal cases, the Harvester case, the Steel
rime and the t nlte.i Shoe Machinery
case, which are now pending In the
Supreme Court,
Puller In Doubtful t'naes.
This In.l to Ihe question ns to the,
policy of tho Department
neut ns regnnis the
method of enfouing the Inw In those
cases which ate admittedly doubtful.
aillien lin.l I.e . l. tve eniereil into
n nu'ii.l Inn hAHftll til li
that Hie transaction is 11 lawful one nnd
subsequently, upon complaint made, the
Department reaches the conclusion that
the transaction was not In accordance
with the etatute but Is yet satisfied of
the good faith nnd Innocent purpose of to tell on some of the Jurors when they,
the parties and can see that there wns'ieached the Jury room, It was like n
erouml for the view of the law imnn
which they ncted, It has not been and
would not no ine policy or tne Depart-
itnent to Invoke extreme penalties nsalnst
them
"Ill such a case the Department would
consider that the just and appropriate
CoiiMitucd on Fourth 1'uoe,
JURY ACQUITS SIX NEW HAVEN
MEN AND DISAGREES ON FIVE
AFTER 5 1 HOURS OFDEBA TE
Rockefeller, Ilrooker, Pratt,
Led.vard and Itobhins
Face New Trials.
FOnt FOR CONVICTION
I NYIL LAST H ALLOT
Splil Verdict Suggested by
.liidje After Agreement
Seems Hopeless.
ALL THE DEFENDANTS
EXCEPT TWO IX COFRT
The (lovernment Promises
Speedy Action for Those
Not Freed of Charge.
.,i.,i .,. fr nirU.
1 Me l'"'''" J"r '"c" '"r nHayJ
three months heard the evidence for
Hmj nc.,in,t the eleven former directors
of l,1 Ncw ' 'N,'w lllv,',' H"
Hattford ICnllro.nl who were charged
i . .,. ..i. ,,,. ,,.
Ill 1..VII .lllir'ij ...
Filmland's transporta-
returned n split verdict
afternoon after llfty-one
houis .lelllMTatlon.
six of the defendants were nnitiltted.
The Jurv cnulil not ngtee on u verdict
i .i. . . r .i.. n,. ,.ihr. iinl
n the cases of the five others. Judge
William II. Hutu accepted the tlndlngs
. .,..-...,-,.,.,1 .i, jurors.
a"'1 'ar11 11 '
The six nciiil Uteil are I. .Newton
Harney of Karn.lngtnn. fon.i.: UAn
V. Taft of Providence, H. I.: .lames S.
pnlinBwav of New Haven, Conn.: A.
.. ,
Krederb'k I". Hrewter of New Haven
and Henry K. Mcllarg of Stamford.
Conn.
The live on' wIhm 'ses the Jury
icolitiiti'.
., ,...,1 llenrv 1C. Mcllarg
Uocl-efrller and ll.nr K. .MinarK
" ' , ,,s ., aA sn.l.'. U.
counsel, said ufter th- verdict that
their tiiai would bo moved before, the
Ke ler , tor evs take up the cases of
Z ' " ' S. T. De Witt Cuyler.
'v Vn' i.V:,iu.. T. Maxwell,
xiieodoiv N. Vail, ! rancls T. .Maxwell.
,.:,,WHr(l Mllllgatl nnd Alexander Coeh- '
laiwaru .uni'--
r,inp' wn" V"
i ....... rn.inl.li ii II' NPllls
rate from in.n jusi vuiivi..... ...
I'P t the last two or three hours of
the Jurors debate --the Jury nmni story
u the most Interesting feature of the
whole case. It seemed to mnnythe
en hopelessly deadlocked
... ,V, fundamental question as to
whether there cxisicu a ..iin.n,.v, .
1'ro.i I'rldny night they hud stood
1 r'".V ...I .,.,
,ii .itv. iinnio iu.ie. i.i-i.. ......
eveetil
' ., nf ...
part of two of
siraieu-ic nu"'- . .
. . ... .. ,t ... f,,,.
Mm '1IU,7'I T . T L.I
for conviction. The) hud not (.onsu -
ered the iiossllilllty of splitting their
verdict.
The Jurors did not settle down tn
.,ne.itlnir the sheep fmm the goats,
. . ....7t, ....tii . ..xtnnlar .ifiernomi
- .. .' ,.. . i..i .ii...i ,n th.,.,.
jkrier .ll.i.Ke ii.uii o.i" .........i
of enforcing the i n'"'' -.Wmrently divining their predlc.i
nient. gave them guiding ndvice which
hrmiciii them to a verdict several
hours later. It was then that the
Jutymen considered Individual defen
dants. They had already taken seven
teen ballots, Judge Hunt s guuiance
relieved the deadlock and the next bal-
; lot vv.i- unanimous fo 111. nc qu ttal or
six ns well us unanimous that the
I would disagree nu the five other-.
lletermliihiK Knctors.
The delei mining factors in Ihe Jury's
stand w rre the evidence concerning the
nciiilsltion by the New Haven of the
, , lm, Sleniiislilp Company by secret ,
. , pecenibcr. IIIOS; the ac
.. . , n,l mi.. .!
-". ii...t , M,,in.. m-n
"luisi. ion ... ... , ' ; ' ' 7
1 years liner a. ........ .... .. .
what was known 11s the Sound lines
. ngreemei... Strangely enough the
1 inn- .1.1 not cons dcr at a tne iniiaru
1-.', .i n,...lil.,.eil tho ttit.artlle
I .. Pna , ,v the court.
Tim dellberutlons of the jurors ns
.i,.ru,A,l he one of them "were not
1 f.tderlv. hut nobo.lv punched anybody
.dsn" fler the first few ballots weie
tnj-eti on Friday afternoon tho Jiuy!
" .
tetlred wun inc eviieiue 111 us nanus
at 1:30 o'clock r ritlay afternoon the
deliate beenmo genernl. Then two or 1
tnr(.(. led In the argument, which as
1 ...(, wrnry hours passed Is-came sharp
, .,,,.. Will, tlln eveentlnn
III1II 11 iiihwim". ....
' of ""Ins by one or two or the .lurymen
I on the first four ballots the Jury lines
I were drawn tight,
The long days and weeks of dreary, at
I times highly technical, testimony seemed
' ,..,iinn. Some of them were nbvslentlv
unable to take pat In the debating,
though uiged to do so by their fellows.
I others, after the deadlock on the ques
I Hon of conspiracy became more and
more pronounce.., suineii in ineir cuairs, . mane ine remainder .11 toe join oe.v. ine i ne tuny possiine reuien, coiihish in
absolutely refusing to argue their points American Government has obtained Uer- the wholesale lequlsltlonlug of food
of view, letting Foirmnn Hlrschman fin man) 'a permission for the MinUtar'a trip 1 sluffM In llulgarla, p tying for there ship
most of the talking. The deadlock state through Delglum, j meats In paper money.
HOW JURY DISPOSED OF INDIVIDUAL
CASES OF NEW HAVEN EX-DIRECTORS
ACQUITTED.
I). Nkwton llARKF.r, Karmlngton, Conn., prominent In electric llghtlns
companies of that State.
Hobki'.t W. TAirr, Providence, It. I., hanker and cotton manufacturer.
Jamrs 8. Hkminowat, president of tho Now Haven Savings Hank.
A. Heato.v noRKHTfON, New Haven lawyer, prominent In Democratic
politics.
Fredeiiick V. Hrewsteh, New Haven, member of firm of V. A E. T.
Fitch Company nnd prominent yachtsman.
He.nht K. McIIaho, Stamford, former governor of the New Votk Stock
Kxchnnge: Inleresled In coal, coke utul various railroad-.
DISAGREED.
William rto:KErEt.t.i:R, brother of John D. Hockefeller, the only de
fendant who was a director continuously for twenty-four ears of tho
alleged conspiracy.
Charles V. Hrooker, Anonta. Conn., former Connecticut HepuWIcan
Notional Committeeman and a prominent brass manufacturer.
Charles M. Pratt, son of the late Charles Pratt of trre Standard Oil
Company.
Lewis Cass I.r.DTARt), former counsel for the late .1, P. Morgan.
Kpwaro D. Hobrins, former general counsel of tho New Haven system.
STATISTICS OF TRIAL.
Oct. 13 to Jan. 6 55 court days Number of words on record. 2.2fi2,000
Witnesses for Government ST Cost of record $20,000
Witnesses for defence 5 Cost of trial to Government $200,000
Government exhibits 1.M81 Cost to defence $.".".,000
Defence exhibits 46 Totnl cost of trial $773,000
wa reached on Friday night before the
Juiors went to their hotel ami It was
n-1 broken until late eterday after
noon. The verdict, split though It was. was
not teaJly a surprise to thcv.e who have
followed closely the presentation of the
Government's case and have watched the
effect of certain testimony and certain
witnekses on the twelve men In the Jur
box. The acquitted defendants were vis
ibly pleaed with the outcome, but their
comments on the cape were meagre.
They were relieved that It was over.
The others continued silent, but that
they considered the disagreement In
their cases a victory was too apparent
to pass unnoted.
Scarcely ever before has there been 1
so much activity In the Federal iiulld-
1 p g on n Sunday as there was ye-erday
42 MEN MISSING IN
DU PONT EXPLOSION
Siv Men Willi Homlis al ('lit-
n rv
. Point Mill Two
Aro Arrclctl.
Pun vnKl.ritt. Jan, ln iMonda.vi. I
ltelchers plant of the du Port' powder I
woiks at Carney s Point. .V .1 . ex-
e-
pin led al l'-:21 this moi nlng. 1'orty -
two men emjdoyed in the plant ate mis - -
log. The Hash of the explosion was sepn
In this city
Positive evidence that a plot existed ,
Is said to have been found. Six men .
who are said to have bad dynamite In
their possession are believd to have
rau,rt the explosions. One of these men
was killed, two were captured and thiee
oth-t ..re being sought. Secret eervice
men had been warned of the movements
of the si men and were watching for
The shifts uf worKiugnieii welo
.
changing at t:ie plant wliei. tnete was
i n.,n tllat ,.i10t mlo .nc air a numtreti
Kmplo'ecs of the plant who
I reached Wlln.lnon about an h.uir after
the explosion said that the evploMon had
ocourt I In the tower or plan .o. ,i. an
!elevaoillke structuie In wild, the ,.ow-
'lor me,,m"'
, . TTDT T 'FTITQnN PT A NT
$5,000 FIRE AT tUIbUH fUVHI.
. . ....
mini I seil Cir vinKiim eui iiurni
sinru i r ...r .....
ui.r ii lilnlirht.
.... j .
Sii-vki: I.akk, N. J., Jan. 10 (Monday),
()ne of the sheds owned by 1 nomas
IMison and used for the production of
I synthetic carbolic add caught tire about
1 1 - 'M o'clock this nmrnlug and was de-
, stroed wun a us. ... ,.n ,......
I "V ." . '" " '
detective iring.
Mr. ami .Mrs IMison weie on the scene
of Ihe fire within twelve minutes. The
inventor superiuien.ie.i me .y.rK oi s.n -
Ing the buildings near by ' I'll have an-
other building up Inside fdrty-elght
hours," ne said before lie left,
SHUSTER A WILSON AENT?
snld to He (ioliiK to far i;ast nu
l)liliilillltle Mission.
Stv Fiunoisi.1i, Jan. !.- W Motgaii
Shuster, ex-Treasurer-tleneral of Persia,
has booked passage for the Har lisl ami
Hhpp(iiK circles here me Infoimed that
i. , Bolng on a illplomatb' mission foi
President Wilson.
China and Japan will In hi- Melds, it
Is ...Id He will act In a capacity some.
I Is said
..... ,iillar lo that of Col. K M.
' 11 ,.
. ... . . , .
' V,X tin' co,Vrs..,f ,ls ..l,!o.
1 ...., ............ 1,1 i..,.,,.i n,,
. . 1 ,.,ui.
I. ...,. . i.-,.,- P...i..n, .....losnbetn"
. for the future guidance of the Adinliils
1 trillion. This will Include Information
, on the Philippine question and a report
I"" the piesent situation existing oeiween,
. I . n 11,1 I'lllll'l
Julian and China
,IrnTTTnfitr U'FAflUT'J WAflirF.
; "
! w 1,1 ,iw
I11K H t.eriniiii Permit.
Vrln CaM, liiU-h tn Tor Sin
1 tiik Haohk. via London. Jan. P.
, urand Whltlock, American Minister tn
llelglum. who arrived at llotterilam last
' night, ' proceeded Immediately tn The
! Ilu-giie. where he spent to-day with Dr.
Heiity van Dyke, Anieilcan Minister lo
the Netherlands, Minister Whltlock
will go to-morrow to nrusseis to resume1
Ills duties.
A train will take the American dip- 1
lomat as far as the Helso-Dutch frontier.
1 where an automobile will meet blm to'
The Jury came down frni.i the Knicker
bocker Hotel at 10 o'clock anil Imme
diately resumed Its deliberations. The!
defendants and counsel exercised In the
gloomy corridors on the third lloor. .
chatted In grot ps, or otherwise whlled '
away the time. Messrs. Harney,
Mcllarg and Rockefeller were not among
them early In ae day, but Mr. Harney
was In court when the Jurors sent word
to Judge Hunt at 11 !13 that they wanted
to see blm
It was about five minutes befoce 12
when Judge Hunt, addressing the twelve
men from the bench, said:
"Gentlemen, I have received your lat
est communication, saying you think It
inipossinie ror you to reach a division.
I do not r.' all desire to know how you
Co tit timed on fourth Vatf.
BRITISH BATTLESHIP
IS SUNK BY A MINE
Kin" Kriwiml VII. Goes Down.
Prolmlily in North Sen. Ifer
777 Men Iteititr Saved.
,eciii i al.l, ttrtpoirk tn Tnt r
London. Jan. !. The ortlrlal Press
. ,r,M .... ,i , ...
, ,, " ""., si.uemeiu
' "ernim.
ii. .vt. King Kdward VII.
stiuek a mine. Owing to the beavv
sea she was abandoned and sank
shortly after. The ship's company
was rescued. There was no loss of
life Two men were Injured,
i lie i-ress llureau statement makes iu,
mention of the urea where the battle,
H' " nick the mine, It I, believe.
h Patrol duf In the .Vortl
elleved
.Vorth
The King Kdwnrd vti i n, i
1 1. . i.. i . . I . . ....
." ",''i nnt.iln
. i me war. coming
! next to the dreadnought Audacious.
"' "' " "J
' "vY "V ,-.Viih
which was of 2. tons dlsnljcement.
refst lost was the Kurinld.
nun tons.
,1..... i tii ,
alT", ', ..' '.r,'" "
1004, Their ninxlmuni dlsnlacement Is
'""7."' " normal cotnpie-
ient of 7T7 men. The King IMward
was launched in Julv. lsort. :..,a ...i,.i.
, pie.eu in .viarcn,
, ...... .. m. ......i... i;.v,i, Mer coi was
' r-ii.-rn nH. j 5
about l.'i.OoO.OOO.
knots, with a maximum approaching -0
knots. Her length was '.-.riv, feet, with
a 7s feet beam and 2Hn. feet drain-lit.
she carried four 12 Inch guns, four !.:
Inch guu. ten Inch gun. twelve twelve
pounders, fourteen three pounders, two
.m.,mmis and is inch torpedo tube-
' ' " g r.uwnrn is me
thlrteenth
Hrltish warship lost since the outbreak of
(,(. ,var. no niimls-r Includis three
armored cruisers. Hesldes the Audacious,
Bulwark and Formidable, the ships lost
prevlous and their tonnage were:
Irieslstlhle. iS.Ainl, Natal. 1 3 . T . 0 :
Ore in, lLl'Tii) : Goliath i:.!,n . Triumph,
U.VIO, and Mnjestle, H.tiilti. and the
armored cruisers Cresy. Abouklr and
Ilogue, 12,000 each.
Gerinany's capital losses Include live
armorul cruisers, tlie Yorck. n.rtRo tons
Scharnhorst, 11,110. Gnelsenau, 11,420;
l'rledrlch Karl, 8 n7, and Hlueclier, 15.
5 .Ml
U BOAT ASHORE; CREW DEAD.
(ierniiin Sulinmrlne Itrporle.l
lleneb Near Cndlr, Spill...
teciI t'nhlr DuihiIcI, to Tar St t
Havana, Jan. 0 - Passengers aboard
the Spanish steamer Valbanera, will. I.
,ii lived to-day from Spanish mrtt, re
port that 11 large German siibmuine
was found stranded on ('null IIkuIi,
twent.v -live miles southeast of Cadiz.
near the Atlantic entrance of ihe Me.li-
terranean
The nieiubeis of the ciew were dead
t. result of asphyxiation
Tilt, suli marine was tilled with food
and gasolene and It Is presumed that
1 she was serving as a supple shin for
1 other submarines, thus explaining the
, , , ,. 1 source of supply for German submit
llrnssels lo-.l... lint- riupH vruMnK ,,, , Mediterranean.
- -
TO BUY LESS SWISS FOOD.
-
Austria hiiiI lieriiu.ny Seek tit Mud
rnuac f 1 ,, riphnmrr
' 'r'
vi-iuf fable Unpaid, to Tiik Set
Komi:, Jan. 0 The correspondent of
Tiik St'N has learned from a diplomatic
source that an effort is now being made
by Austria and Germany lo limit Ihe
purchases of foodstuffs In Switzerland,
This Is said to be the main cause for
ihe low exc.h nine.
CAMPAIGN AT
DARDANELLES
IS ABANDONED
Jnitish Announce With
drawal of All Forces
on I'eninsiila.
SAV THAT ONLY" ONF
.MAN WAS WOFNDFl)
Turks Claim Troop ship
Was Sunk and Tell of
lti- Hat tie.
AK.MVS DKSTINATFON
IS NOT KKVKALEI
Fniiyenients Occurred on
Saturday Expedition a
Costly Hlnnder.
ALLIES DRIVEN OUT,
CONSTANTINOPLE HEARS
'pfial 'u'V liftiiatrl, ti The Scs.
I-onimn. .Ian. '.i. -A Iteiiler des
patch fiom Am.stcril.nn says:
"Advices from Constantinople say
the Hrltish evacuation of Sedd-cl-Mihr
was the result of a violent
battle with great losses,"
The correspondent adds that a
report has been received telling of
the capture by the Turks of a
"great enemy camp and nine guns
and the sinking of mi enemy vessel
with tnsips near Sedd-el-lt.ihr."
Vpfi'o Ciblf lO'p'Uch In Tar. Sei
l.OMsiv, Jan. S. The campaign of
the Allies nt the Dardanelles lias been
abandoned
Tho positions at the tip of the Gal
llpoll peninsula which were retained
when the Hiitlsh troops left Suvla Hay
and Anniu Cove on December 19 have
been evacuated. Not ; British or
French soldier rcm.ilns on the penin
sula, where more than Irtd.ouo men
were killed or wounded since Inst April
In futile attempts to force tin; Turkish
lines.
The evacuation of the last nilled po-
son. wa effected, ncporillnc In lb.
.
ollicial nnnouucenient. witli the loss of
one Hrltish soldier wounded, thn
French suffering no casual! io. This
aiqiears to have been an even nioto
temar'iable exploit than the with
drawal from the Suvla May and Anz.u;
positions, wiirie. ihe ollicial statement
H'1'1, ll,' '""''es Inclined were "Inslg-
nlllcnni."
On tile duller occusloli. the .stdte-
1t'I sl"n' "", operations weie carried
fi I U' IF It I I f rk'U in lite fitvq r- ,.r
" ..., ., ":.
although the allied
' troops had been .n the chim'si iimi.n-r
w ll. the eneltii. The w n li.le.i n :.t ..f
, t,.e,. ,. f.,r..'.. iv.,. .i,. .1...
1 , ., , ' 11
t I" hi if i ui in ii'i inv m i j 1 1 r t e 1 in K"
inh batteries on both Mdes of the strait
would aeein to Indicate that the Turku
, u.
... ....
Ir I mm In on sainrdii, .
in contrast wun ine oiiiit.n aniioiiiKe-
mem in. 11 .inn one iii,iii w-.is n.nu.i ei . a
statement Issued b the Tnrklh War
Office and le.elved hete tn-dav tells of
heavy artlllerv lighting on niiuisil.it.
I'llday and Satunlay. all along Hie linn
1 across the peninsula
n Saturday, the Tuil.ls.i statement
s.i.vs, tlie Turkish b.itte, le ,, the Asu.na
coast shelled the landing tda, r nt Sedd.
1-H.ihi' and Tekl.c-lliirnii and i,lo
shelled allied tin.ips in the Koievesdet
Valley, leading to the stialt fiom the
Krlthl.i heights. It would siein prob.ihl
that the troops shelled ln this valley
"' have Oeen on their wav f rum tl.a
positions south of the heights to th
shore for the putp.is, r eiiibark'.itior
The Turkish staleineni. w bleb includi s
the operations of Siitiinlit. makes no
1 mention of the withdiawal of the Allies
. fr"nl Peulnsula The il.itu of the
withdrawal Is not given In the official
announcement Issued heie
Ilritlsh Xiiiio lllnlrniml,
Announcement 01 the evacuation nf
the j n 1 1 1 . , 1 1 s on the tip of (lie peninsula,
was made in the following ollicial state.
" nient lMied b the presn hutc.111 lo-ibo :
Gen. Sir Charles Mount reports tli.it
the complete evaluation of the 1i.1t
llpo'.t peninsula has heen sui .cssfully
cairled out.
All guns and l.owltze.s wrie got
away with the cm eptlnn of seventeen
worn out guns, which were blown up
before le.it Ins
Our . .u,ilt,i's weie one wounds. 1
Theie were no ciMialttcs among the
Fren. h troops.
lien. .Monio nates thai the mi, .
cessful ac. .impllshment of the illlllcult
task was due to I. .nil -Gens. H1.dwo.1d
and Davli". and aat invaluable
assistance :.s rendered in an opera
tion of the hlgliesi ditlicultv b Vnr
Admiral John .Michael de Uoebeck
ami the 11.1v
The following Tin kisli ..111. .,, I slate,
nient was reielv.d to-day.
At the Dardanelles mi linl.it we
violeullj shelled the tienehes opposite
our right for four hours, .-mslng hcivy
d'aiuage ,
At the cent!" we destroyed enemy
trenches and nimtar positions' .
On our left then, was feeble- ar
tillery filing. I
On Thursday lilgnf, froni-the Nai
rows, we slielleiLtije csulpat Setld.
el-rtahr and on I iff.iy tlV'ejjfemtliat.
terles al T Ulic-Hui 'iu ,TJJi'',i'n.iy re.
piled. ' ' ,
1111 Satur.lt Anatolian 'batteries
sliellvd the hurbois at Scdd-el-Uahr
