r-tystM "3Wr"s
FINANCIAL EDITION
Urttner
Cuemng
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
re
vol. ii-no. 101
lUIILADELPlIIA, MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 101 G.
CortmniiT, 1010, r tub PrUo Licon Coupini.
PKIOE ONJ33 OMNT
rjte w nyt'Tf-i 3ty-- -
r
GERMANS DRIVE
FRENCH BACK ON
CHAMPAGNE LINE
Trenches Near Massiges
Captured, 423 Prisoners
Taken, Berlin Says
TEUTONS GAIN IN VOSGES
Pnrls Admits Loss of Position,
but Asserts It Was Retaken
at Once
IlEItMN, Jnn. 10.
Flghtlns lins ngntn developed In Cham-
M-rth.nHt of Mnsslgcs nnd no.rr tho
t . tM.nnn An Chnmnnano several
Irm ui . .
hundred yards of French trenches hnvo
been captured by the Gcrmnni, It wns
omelally nnnounccd today by tho War
Office.
The Germans captured 423 prisoner.
men of them omcors: five machlno guns,
no large nnd seven small mine throwers.
Hear guard depots of the Allies nt
rurnes. Belgium, have been nttneked by
a German air licet.
Tho following H tho text of tho official
report:
"The Germans northwest of Massiges
conquered several hundred yards of
French trenches near the farm of Malson
rf Chnmn.ignc, nnd enemy positions were
, also taken.
"We took 423 prisoners. Including seven
efneera, nnd captured flvo mnchlno guns,
one large nnd Bevcn small mine throwers.
"A French countor nttnek eastward of
the farm was repulsed.
"A Germnn nlr division attacked tho
enemy rear guard establishments nt
Furness."
The War Offlco nnnounccd last night
that near Hlrzsteln, south of Hartmamis
nellerkopf, tho Germans yesterday com
pleted their rcconuuest of tho trenches
which on December 21 fell Into tho hands
ef tho French. Twenty officers, 10S3 chaB
leure nnd 15 machlno guns were captured.
FJtENCII REPORT FOES
LOSE GROUND GAINED
PATHS. Jnn. 10.
German troops hnvo launched a new
and powerful offensive movement In the
Champagne region, tho French War Of
fice announccdv today. During Sunday
tho Teutonic troops inado four flerco nt
tacks upon tho French positions, tho
fighting lasting until night.
In tho bombardment with which tho
Germans prepared for their assaults they
again used shells containing asphyxiat
ing gas.
Tho following communique won Issued
at (he War Office this afternoon:
'"In Champagne tho enemy has de
veloped the attack made by him yester
day with tho herp of a violent bombard
ment, In which ho used principally shells
containing asnhyxlatlnsr gns. During tho
I. f entire, courso of the day up to nightfall
no attempted no less than four assaults,
concentrated on a front eight kilometres
(flye miles), running from La Courtlno to
Monte Tctu, west nnd cast of tho butto
of Mesnll. r
"At every point our fire decimated tho
enemy's ranks and sharply nrrestcd hl3
attack. IIo succeeded gaining a foot
bold only temporarily at two points on
oar first line, namely, to tho northeast
of the butto of Mesnll nnd to tho west
of Monte Tctu.
"A vigorous counter-attack Immediately
drove tho enemy out. Ho did not occuny
the two elements of advanced trenches
mora than nn hour of actual tlmo."
PREDICTS "DRY" MAJORITY
Delegation in Congress Expected to
Favor Ilobson Amendment
The Rev. Dr. Homer W Tope, district
auptrlntendent of tho Anti-Saloon League,
SMtcrday rredlctcd that tho majority of
Pennsylvania's Congressmen would vote
for the Ilobson amendment to tho Federal
Constitution, providing for prohibition.
A poll of the delegation Is n progress,
and. although several of tho lawmakers
will not commit themselves. Doctor Topo
Is confident of a showing favorable to
the "drB." During tho last session 13
of Pennsylvania's 33 Congressmen voted
for the amendment. An even greater
m&lorltv la Tn.o,.ii . .i.Ib nnin
t,T"en,y'nve hundred residents of North
Ptuladelphla. listened yesterday to an at
tack upon tha liquor trafllc, delivered uy
ths nev. Dr. A. W, Lamnr. veteran of
the Confederate army. Tho Boldler-evan-Mllst
spoke under tho auspices of tho
North Branch Y. St. c. A. In tho Key
ton Theatre.
pt THE WEATHER
.,?. t ?fan Winter, you may remember,
imt no.ae in tns door last Saturday,
out evidently decided theso parts were
SimVif ,'. He'3 80ne today, nnd with
la , BkaUnS' that was moro than fnlr
.i v """'"" yesieraay; j.eat wo ior-"t-
however, !' left a temperature of
oejreea hanglne around, so that when
u. V ,,Uo ral" this morning many of
found we could not maintain our ac
twiu!!!?1 8peed wl,lla running for the
m.J r . '?ar of n n.ln with the pave-
., . .J1 Iderly gentleman Just ahead
toJi!l oday' towi a "at on his accus
:e1,.car 'or the first time In hls
i,".'. thanks to the same Ico on tho
th. U!' ,A8 the car stopped, with all
Proached (t only, for no reason at all. to
Sir, beautiful figure eight and land
fort?.?n, thl BtP r the said car,' Un
SlftSy the position was nor In ac
trav.i th the P- S- c'8 regulations for
fort 3? a co,ramm carrier, and was per
in r?Eed- Don,t take tho Incident
wS, h t0 heart. however. It will be
Us2nirvan'1 aU Wa wll have to annoy
div i. . ?methl"ff ,lk the eighth rainy
Even Mu.ten alnce Jan"ar- 1.
comt- N. "wnual Ignores a rule of
wnauct under kuch clrcumtances.
, FORECAST
o:pr Philadelphia and vicinity
!"i BW warr tonight; Tuesday
Mntir " ' "'"tf i 7iuueruie to irean
touthwett to northwest gales.
e or details see pane 4.
I
XOST Aim FOUND
?h,bP.RA,rEI'JET Loi- PUttnum wrlt
I I VnS -. Sel,t-, Saturday aft.moon. tttweea
lo jSL'5 g,cl?JS btwu 4utb a.ai Walnut
Mil1 ,TbS'r. "brl "ward. Apply
',i5"FMwtii ro WW fhc.lnut t.
: E,fr? 'iui J bUrk snd whlu wftr
En B. " nini IUrd. Jobn Straprldx,
Othtr Clajj(je 4, paan lt a$ tT
ONLY THREE DEAD
IN DU PONT BLAST;
NO ONE ARRESTED
Explosions in Powder Mills
at Carney's Point Purely
Accidental
PACKING HOUSE WRECKED
Rumors of Bombs and Plots
Scouted by Ofiicials Maqhine
Defect Suspected
Three men were killed nnd hundreds of
workmen narrowly escaped Injury shortly
ntter midnight when n terrific explosion
wiped out the "sweetie" or blending mill
In plnnt No. 1 of the du Pont-de Nemours
Powder Company at Carney's Point, N. J.
Another workman was reported miss
ing, hut It developed that he had been
visiting relatives In this city nnd failed
to report for work on tho first shift
which goes on nt midnight.
Tho explosion occurred nbout 12:23
o'clock, followed by two of lesser
violence. Tho llnsh of tho exploding
powder lighted tho skies over tho entlro
city of Wilmington nnd the surrounding
towns. Windows were shnttercd nnd
houses locked for miles around. Tho
vlbrntlons wero felt In West Phllndclphln,
South Philadelphia nnd ns fnr north as
Lehigh avenue.
Tho dead nre:
UICHAHD .T. LAIINEY. a foreman,
formerly of 81st street nnd Gibson avenue,
Philadelphia.
JOHN WALSH, Nynck, N. Y.
I). C. WYNN, address not given.
How the nccldent happened probably
will never bo learned, ns every porson In
tho building at tho time was killed. Of-v
Mclals believe that tho explosions occurred
In a "sweetlo" machlno which Is used for
glazing powder nnd mixing It with gra
phite to make It Impervious to dampness.
HUMOUS OF PLOTS.
Workmen, on tho other hand, declaro
that unless somo ono lnsldo tho build
ing set tiro to tho ponder In tho process
of drying, nn explosion cuuld not oc
cur. This cnuscd rumors nbout bombs
and plotters, which offlclals declared to
bo grossly exaggerated. It wos llrst
reported that two nrrcsts had been mndo
and bombs nnd fuses confiscated, but
this wan denied by company ofiicials.
"Wo have no reason to suspect that
any one did It," Mr. Landls, nn official
of tho company, said over the long-dla-tanco
telephone, "and no ono has been
arrested. Tho dnmago dono to tho build
ing was very slight."
Tho first shift hnd been working but
a fow minutes when laborers In tho other
Continued on rage I'our, Column Three
JURY PICKED TO TRY
MRS. MOHR ON CHARGE
OF HUSBAND'S MURDER
Two Negroes, Accused of Ac
tual Killing:, by Wife's Or
ders, Face Jurors at
Same Time
CONFIDENT OF ACQUITTAL
PROVIDENCE, R. I., Jan. 10. John
J. FitzRcrald, attorney for Mrs. Eiiz
abelh Tiffany Mohr, sprnnc a sensa
tion nt 1:15 today when he drew from
Joseph E. Aldrich an admission that
he had visited nnd questioned pros
pective jurors last Saturday. Aldrich
said he visited a number" of prospective
jurors, among them Hugh Carney, who
had been tentatively accepted as juror
No. 1.
Attorney General Rico called Aid
rich to refute Carney's assertion that
ho never had expressed an opinion. He
said he visited Carney Saturday and
then Carney said he believed Mrs.
Mohr's religious attachments would
liberate her. Fitzgerald charged Aid
rich with representing interests inim
ical to Mrs. Mohr's faith. Judge
Stearns excused Carney, settling the
dispute, and leaving only eleven jurors.
rnOVIDENCK. R. I., Jan. 10,
A jury to try Mrs. Kllzabeth Tiffany
Mohr was completed at 1:15 p. m. today,
. .. S.U....1.... t.- npiirr.n nf nilrrtll villa
a mlllhand, was selected as Juror No. 12.
Tho dcrense ana omiu niy mitum o.
,.,i,ir however, as no challenges yet
l....... l.AAn V0r.fBAll
4iUB WVC, vrt-.v.M.
Mrs. Mohr appo- reu in oe very nenous,
but hopeful today as alio faced Justice
Charles F. Stearns in tho Superior Court,
This highly strung and nerve-wracked
woman was charged with being un ac
cessory before the fact In procuring the
murder, on the Washington road last
August 31, of er husband. Dr. C. Frank
lin Mohr, physician to tho society colonies
of Proyfdenco and Newport.
"I never was more confident of any
thing thap I am right now of acquittal,"
said Mrs. Mohr, through her personal
counsel, Arthur Cushlng. "And I mean
not acquittal alone, but vindication as
well. This charge against me Is absurd."
Facing tho court today as co-defendants
with Mrs. Mohr were Cecil Victor Brown
and Henry Bpellnian, negroes who are
accused of filing the shot that killed Doc
tor Mohr and seriously wounded Miss
i-mlly Burger, his olltce assistant, who
was riding with tho physician In his auto,
mobllo at tho time.
When Justice Stearns convened court
there were 100 talesmen In the panel from
which to pick a Jury. It generally was be
lieved that It would take several days to
get a jury. The clerk of the court had
another 100 men In reserve should the first
panel be exhausted before 12 men were In
the box.
Mrs. Mohr, over the openly muttered
disapproval of those In tha courtroom,
was arraigned alongside the two negroe.
when they came into court. Hfer personal
counsel. Cushlng, though", stood between
the woman and Brown and SpelLaan.
r
Jersey Steel Strikers Return
JERSEY CITV, N. J., Jan. W.-Tho 750
striking Crucible Steel plant laborers re
turned to work today when company
officials promised to consider their wage
Increase demands. They struck last week.
NEW CIVIL SERVICE
fc .HtA'...-.,.fl.iin torfiln. . ,rr n "' - ' "' -..wiw.......tf.. i . in,. nMJ
The three men appointed by Mnyor Smith to supervise the city's
civil service nlTaira nsBtimotl their new duties todny. An Evknino
Ledger photographer "snnpped" them just ns they nnd turned from
the hntrnck nnd were nbout to "scatter" to their desks on the seventh
floor of City Hnll." From loft to right, they nre Willinm II. Krcidcr,
secretary; Robert JI. Griffith, prcsk'ont, nnd Nicholas Alhrccht,
minority member.
BRITISH RELIEF EXPEDITION
SMASHES TURKS AT KUT-EL-AMARA
LONDON, Jan. 10.
Tho British have inflicted a severe defent on tho Turks nt Mcsopotnmia,
it wna officinlly nnnounccd in tlic House of Commons this afternoon.
Tho Turks have been forced to retrcnt in "heavy lighting," it was
stated, losing 700 prisoners nnd somo guns.
Tho engagement occurred, it was stated, while British forces wore
marching to the relief of other British troops besieged nt Kul-cl-Amara.
Tills was the first official intimntion that the British at Kut-cl-Amara
were in danger.
At the snmo time it was officinlly nnnounccd that Genernl John Nixon,
commander-in-chief of tho Mesopotnminn cnmpnfgn, lins retired. The
official statement said the retirement was necessary "on account of ill
health."
BERLIN, Jnn. 10. Ten thousand British troops hnvo been sur
rounded by the Turks nt Kut-ol-Amnrn, southeast of Bagdad, according
to Constantinople dispatches todny.
The British detachment was left behind nt Kut-cl-Amara to cover
tho retreat of the main body of General Townshcnd's forces, who wore
defeated with heavy casualties when they advanced on Bagdad.
By a successful enveloping movement the Turg.s cut off their retreat
to tho south. Tho Turks arc now attacking the main defenses of Kut-cl-Amara.
Constantinople dispatches, transmitted through Berlin, today, re
ported that the Turks have cut off and surrounded 10,000 British troops
at Kut-el-Amnra. Tho official British statement, while not directly con
tradictory, casts somo doubt on tho Turkish claim, which was not official.
Kut-cl-Amara is in tho southeast part of the provinco of Bagdad,
whero it joins tho province of Irak-cl-Arabi. It is on tho Tigris, 100
miles southeast of Bngdnd.
THREE 'BOLD, BAD MEN'
CAUGHT ON THEIR WAY
TO A KIDNAPPING
Vigilant Cop Surprises Them as
They Sneak Toward Their
Victim's Home, Bearing
Burglar Tools
COLLEGE LARK COLLAPSES
Three University of ronnsjlvanla
sophomores, who wero on their way at
3 o'clock this morning to kidnap tho vice
president of the freshman clnss, wero
themselves captured by a policeman, who
thought they weic burglars, nnd wero
nlmost sent to Jail.
Almost, but beyond the senro they hnd,
tho miss was nearly as good as a mile.
As n matter of fact they wero sentenced
by Magistrate Harris to llvo days each In
Movamonslng prison. Then, nfter leav
ing them behind the bars for awhllo "to
think It over" tho Magistrate called them
out. reprimanded them, and told them
to "beat It."
Tho prlkoners were slated at tho 32d
street nnd Woodland avenue station ns:
Raymond Young. M years old, 600 South
C'th street.
Wilbur Newsletter, 13 years old, SCI9
Locust street.
Henry L. Gcyelln, Jr., 21 years old, 3733
Locust street.
Newstetter Is n polo vautter on the U.
o'f P. truck team. He competed In tho
relay races last spring and tied Foss, of
Cornell, with a Jump of 12 feet 3 Inches.
Young was end luBt year on the fresh
man football team.
Oeyellu Is a member of a prominent
Philadelphia family. He Is a son of
Henry I.nussat Geyelln. of Vlllanova. who
Is president of tha University of Penn
sylvania Athletic Association, and other-
v Continued on l'nse Seven, Column Two
IL MALTEMP0 RENDE
INATTIVALAFANTERLA
Gli Austriaci Costretti a Ripie-
gare Davanti alFUrto For-
midabile dei Russi
II cattivo tempo ha fatto sospendere le
operazlonl della fanteria su gran parte
del fronto Italo-austrlaco. Infantl I co
munlcatl ufllcall Itallano ed austrlaco dl
cono che si sono avute soltanto vlolentl
azlonl dl artlglleria sul fronts dell'Isonzo,
speclalmente davnntl a Tolmlno. dayantl
a Gorlzla e sull'altoplauo dl DoberdoV
Inoltre plccoll repartl dl fanteria Itallana
sono statl attlva nella zona dl Monte
Groce dl Comellco, dove gll Itallanl haunq
inlzlato da una seettlmana una nuoya
azione offenslva.
Notlzle dalla Hussla e da Londra dlcono
che I russi fanno notevoll progressl nella
loro grande offenslva contro le lineo
nemlche dalle paludl dl Pinsk alia frou
tlera della Ilumanla. Su questo (route In
furla da parecchl gtorul una vlolenta bat
taglla e gll austriaci sono statl costretti
a riplegare. Kul hanno tentato Invano
dl fermare 1'avanzata dellq forze russe a
nord-ovest dl Czernovltz, dove led hanno
perduto circa 1200 uomlnl. pblettlvo del
rul e' quello dl costringere 11 nemlco
ad abbandonare le vlclnanza del confine
rumeno, ed ancho a Uerllno si ammette
ora che se 1'offensiva rusaa sa.ru' coro
nata dal successo Rumania e Grecia si
schlercranno a flanco degll alleatl della
Quadrupllce Intesa.
(Letfgero in 4a pagina le ultima e plu'
dettagllate notizle Bulla, suerra, In Itallano.)
BOARD AT WORK
PRETTY GIRL IS BURNED
WITH THREE OTHERS IN
PHOTO POWDER BLAST
Miss Marie Mills, of Haddon
field, With Mother, Probably
Fatally Injured in Acci
dental Explosion
HOUSE ALMOST WRECKED
Four persons iwero burned today, two
of them so seriously that It Is believed
that they will die, by on accidental ex
plosion of 10 pounds of flashlight powder
In tho dining room of tho homo of Charles
Mills, a photographer, of 7 Regnlllah ave
nue. Hnddonrlcld, N. J. Tho persons
who wero burned nro:
MISS MAltli: MIMA IS ear old. daughter
nf tho proprietor of Dtuilfo. Hums of lh
tiamlB. head, neik and body. Cooper Hos
pital. Condition serious.
Sins. HAltniCT MILLS. 40 scars old. wife
nf the proprietor. Uurns of thn hands, neck,
face and body. Cooper Hoapltal. Condition
iertous.
ARTHUR TEED, 21 years old. SOS Haddon
nienue, Cnmden. N. J. Hums of ho face,
hands and neck. Cooper Hoapltal. Not
acrloua,
CHAItLKS MILLS, in .jours old. slight l.urm
of the neck, face, and handi. Treated by a
physician. Not serlom.
SAVED I1Y NKIOHnOHS.
The members of the Mills family and
Teed might havo been trapped In tho
house and burned to death If It had not
been for tho fact that Alfred Homier, a
neighbor, rushed Into tho house, and t
with tho nsslstnnca of the members of
tho Haddonfleld tiro department dragged
the people from tho burning building.
They wero taken from the house and
placed in the automobile- of It. H. Hen
ner and hurried to the Cooper Hospital.
At the hospital physicians said that Mrs.
Mills and her daughter wero In a serious
Continued on I'age Two, Column Two
DIRECTOR HRUSEN ON
HOW TO CURE THE GRIP;
OBEY DOCTOR, IS ADVICE
Head of Health Department
Says Disease Is Never Dan
gerous if Physician Is
Called Early
IT IS NOT CONTAGIOUS
Director Kruseji Tells
fallow to Cure the Grip
Send for your family physician.
Stay indoors.
Grip is never dangerous if a
doctor is called in early.
It's up to you not to get the grip,
not to the Department of Health.
Keep fit physically and you won't
get it.
Dr. Wllraer Kruaen. director of the De
partment of Public Health and Charities,
today gave counsel for those who have
the grip and those who get it. His advice
was short and to the point.
It was this:
"Send vleht away for your family phy
sician andjlo what he tells you"
Continued a Puce Two, Column lour
MAYOR CLAMPS
VICE LID TIGHT IN
THE TENDERLOIN
Policemen, Posted Near
Houses of Ill-Fame, Warn
Men Against Entering
QUARANTINE IS STRICT
Woman Proprietors in Quan
daryOne Snys "We'll
Starve to Death"
A lre quarantine more strict than nny
established under the administration of
Muvnr Illankenbiirg was put Into opera
tion by Director of Public Safety Wilson
on ,Siiturdii, Sunday nnd todnj ngalnst
houses of Ill-fame throughout the tender
loin. llcietnforo only a pollco guard was
maintained outside of houses on the "sus
pected list." Tndio, It was different.
Policemen In uniform, with club In hand.
Were stationed ut stleet corners and little
side streets which lend to these houses.
Out of JO uniformed men who nto de
tailed on qunrnntltio duty today In tho
second division, which Is rommanded b.
Captain Ororgc Tempest. T per cent of
them had speelllr Instructions to stand
on certain corners. Some of the corners
whero policemen stood wero located more
than tOil feet nwny from suspected houses.
Tho men on quarantine duty were
ordeicd to wnm persons who chanced to
bo wnlklng In the direction of houses of
III fame that they were liable to nrrest
an witnesses If they entered any of the
housee. Others were ordered to walk
ahead when they attempted to ring n
hell or knock on n door.
QUAKANTINI3 WILL CONTINUE.
"Wo Intend to keep up this quarantine
until we smoke out the occupants, of
thoe houses," said Captain Tempest.
Thoso who are close to tho Smith ad
ministration said today that tho cam
paign ngnlnst vlco was to be permanent.
It was said that the measures wero being
tnken with the Indorsement of Major
Smith and other members of his cabinet.
Tho strict ban against vice. It wan
learned today, camo as a surprise to
owners of disorderly houses, cadets, pro
fessional bondsmen, liquor dealers and
denleis In leelr and dresses who do
business on the Instalment plan.
For weeks preparations have been under
way to do a lnnd-ofllrc business, in many
cases the leases of houses. In which front
curtains have been drawn for months,
wero signed for another year. Honuses
were offered to real estate clerks by
women who wnnted suitable houses.
"Hey there, mister, whero yc goln'?"
Continued on Page Two, Column Hlx
FROMtOP TO PROUD
POSSESSOR OF MILLION
IS 0'LEARY'S FORTUNE
Former Policeman Refuses to
Admit or Deny That "War
Brides" Carried Him to
Pinnacle of Success
PLEASED WITH HIS LOT
"Tim" 0'I.enry, who donned a bluo coat
with brass buttons and swung a club non
chalantly when ho stnrtcd out to climb the
dlczy heights of success, has become a
mllllonalro via tho "war bride" pnth.
Such, nt least, Is tho rumor current on
tho "street" nnd Mr. O'Lcury doesn't
deny It.
He doesn't admit It, either.
"It's nobody's business." ho said today
when asked whether it was truo that ho
had become a millionaire. "That's a prl
ata matter entirely."
"I guess all these things look like side
lines now," the reporter ventured.
"That's right," he agreed, a twinkle
In his eye, ns ho turned once more to his
pcrusul of the Sunday Transcript.
Mr. O'l.cary admits he has been play
ing with tho stock market of lato, and
he admits he tins been successful. Ho
won't say, however, Just how successful
ho has been.
Tho story Is going tho rounds to the
effect that Mr. O'Leary made a big kill
ing from lOOO shares of Bethlehem Steel,
which he bought at 53 and sold some
where In the neighborhood of 600. A
littlo mathematics shows that the profit
In this deal would amount to close to
half a million dollars.
"Did you make most of your money
Continued on I'ase Two, Column lite
C. H. CLARK, JR.,kDIES
ON HUNT IN SOUTH
Philadelphia Banker, Yachts
man and Hunter Dead
From Apoplexy
C. Howard Clark, banker, hunter,
yachtsman and clubman. Is dead,
Word of his death, which occurred at
the Plneland Club, Garnett. H. C. last
night after a stroke of apoplexy, was re
ceived In this city today. Mr. Clark, who
was SI years old, lived at Devon.
Mr. Clark was a member of the bank
ing firm of K. W. Clark & Co., 321 Chest
nut street; president and director of the
Centennial National Bank, 32d and
Market streets, and a member of the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange, to which
he was admitted to membership In US8.
His Father, Clarence H. Clark, Sr., was
one of the most prominent men of his
day In Philadelphia, hail 11 g been the
founder of the First National Bank and
the Fidelity Trust Company and having
had large railroad Interests.
Mr, Clark was an enthusiastic yachts
man. Among the yachting clubs In which
he had membership ure the Corinthian, of
Philadelphia; the Corinthian, of Marble
head, Mass.; the New York Yacht Club
and the Eastern Yacht Club, of Marble
head. He was the owner of the auxiliary
schooner Savarozuu which he sold last
Summer- His cousin, E. Walter Clark,
was interested In the financing of the
jacht Defiance, which entered the tri
angular trial races which determined the
last cup defender.
QUICK NEWS
FIRE IN BROAD STREET FACTORY
Fire started in the machine shop of the Hoopes and Townsend
Bolt nnd Nut Manufnctruies this nfternoon, and in a few minutes
every male employe of the place joined the company's fire-fighting
brigade. Stenographers and telephone operators stuclt bravely to
their posts. The cause of the fire has not been determined,
BUCHANAN FAILS TO MAKE CASE AGAINST MARSHALL
WASHINGTON, Jnn. 10. The House Judiciary Committee today
gave Representative Buchanan, of Illinois, further time to present
specific detailed clinrgcs against United States Attorney H. Snowden
Marshall, of New York. After listening to Buchanan for two hours,
the committee decided that it had not enough evidence to warrant pror
cccdiugs with a formal Impeachment investigation. Representative
Buchanan asked for auother opportunity to present his charges and
time to xou&ult with cuutcl and witnesses.
DRAFT BILL AUGMENTS VOLUNTARY ENLISTMENT
LONDON. Jnn. 10. Tho Derby recruiting schema wns reopened today for
voluntary enlistments ponding the passago of tho military sorvlco bill. Despltq
lind weather, big crowds besieged most of tho recruiting olllces, mnny of tho
applicants being single men who wished to escape tho stigma of conscription.
When the military service bill comes up In tho Itnuso of Commons on
second rending tomorrow David Lloyd -Oeorge. Minister of Munitions, la
expected to he tho star sponsor In Its defense.
Followers nf Premier Asqulth declnro that opposition to modified con
scription "Is melting nwny."
Arthur Henderson, U-ibor member of the British Cabinet, who offered his
resignation when the National Labor Congress voted ngnlnst conscription;
unexpectedly appeared nt today's session of the Cabinet. It Is assumed cither
that he withdrew his resignation or that It wns not accepted.
THEODORE VOORHEES IMPROVES RAPIDLY
Word was received today thht Theodore Voorhces, president of tho Phila
delphia nnd Heading Hallway, who was operated on ut a hospital nt Rochester,
Minn., Inst week, is rapidly Improving In health. The operation was performed
by the Mnyn brothers, and, ni'cordlng to tho message received, they have hope
of .Mr. Voorhees' complete recovery nt nn curly date.
SUIT AGAINST STEAMSHIP POOL DISMISSED
WASHINGTON, .Inn. 10. Tho Supremo Court today dismissed tho cases
of tho United States ngnlnst tho great transatlantic stenmshlp pool for viola
tion of tho Sherman anti-trust law, becauso tho European war has auto
matically broken up the pool.
ALFRED M. WETHERILL RELEASED FROM CUSTODY
Alfred M. Wctherlll, of ISryn Muwr, licensed of obtaining money under
false pretenses from n business llrm In Tumpa, Fin., wub released from custody
today at Norrlstown. Wctherlll wns arrested on complaint of tho Tampa firm,
which alleged he guvo a draft of $50 on his mother, who refused to honor It. .Fol
lowing his nrrest ho wns relenscd from Jail on habeas corpus proceedings
Instituted by Samuel Scovllle, Jr., nn attorney, nnd placed under $760 ball.
Tho Norrlstown court wns obliged to dlfichnrgo AVctherlll todny, slnco Gov
ernor Brnmhaunh refused to i-rnnt rpniilsltlnn In il Florida Sheriff. 'Wetherlll
j offered to xettlu tho cnHO nftor the
this wna refused nnd tho chnrgOH pressed, nccordlng to his attorney.
GOEBEN CHASED BACK INTO BOSPHORUS
J'ISTHOCiltAD, Jnn. 10. "Russian torpedoboats encountered tho Goc'bcn
(formerly n Cicrmnn battle cruiser, now tho Sultnn Sellm, of tho Turkish navy) In
tho Hlack Sen," says n Ilusslun ofllclal stntement, "Thoy withdrew under pro
tection of 11 ship of lino nearby. A short light nt long range ensued, after which
tho Goebcn fled Into the Uosphorus. Thero wero no Itusslnn losses."
BRITAIN FORESTALLS EXODUS ON ACCOUNT OF DRAFT
WASHINGTON. Jnn. 10. Sir Cecil Sprlng-Wco, tho Urltish Ambassador,
today notified tho State Department that his Government will lssuo no moro
passports to Hrltlsh subjects of military nge. All passports Issued prior to
November If,, 1915, will not bo recognized by IiIh Government unless they bear
tho ofllclal O. K. of tho Hrltlsh Korelgn Otllce. This action. It was presumed
at tho State Department, has been tnken to prevent a possible exodus of mon
becauso of tho conscription bill.
1
CHINESE REVOLT SPREADS; REBELS CAPTURE TOWN
HONG KONG, .Inn. 10. The nntl-monnrchlst revolt In China Is spread
ing. Outbreaks mo reports from tho Provinces of Fuklou, Klnngsl, Hsln nnd
Hupch. Tho gnrrison ut Kleshl has mutinied. Kebels have captured Tamsul,
near tho border of Hrltlsh territory, and nro nttneking Walchow, 30 miles
north of Hong Kong. Missionaries nro being recalled from the Interior of
Kwnngtung Province.
FRENCH AIRMEN SHELL BULGAR CAPITAL
ATH14NS. Jan. 10. A French nlr flotilla bombarded Sofia, doing consid
erable dnmagu to tho Bulgarian capital, Salonlca dispatches reported today.
3000 MAYAS AND VILLISTAS SURRENDER
WASHINGTON, Jan. 10. Admiral Winslow. commanding the Pacific fleet
off tho west coast of Mexico, todny notified the Navy Department that a force
of 3000 Maya Indians and Vllllstu. troops combined have surrendered to ths
forces of General Dlegutz, under Genernl Mngragal, nt Ksperanza, Mex.
POPE INSISTS UPON JUSTICE TO BELGIUM
PARIS, Jnn. 10. Tho Petit Journal prints' a dispatch from Havre saying that
Father Henusse, Almoncr-ln-Chlcf of' tho Belgian Army, who has Just returnee!
from Rome, whero ho talked with tho Pope, makes tho following statement, "The
Popo asked mo to say that ho believes Belgium has u right to complete reparation
from Germany. Ho will never consent to Intervene for peace unless Belgium
at least Is reconstituted In her former rights. They must includo every tithe o
her European and African territories restored and Indemnity given for the com
plete reconstruction of her ruined lands, monuments, arts and industries,"
ITALY ORDERS GRAIN CENSUS FOR REQUISITION
ROM I?, Jan. 10. A decree signed by tho Duko'of Genoa as Lieutenant Gen
eral of King Victor Kmmanuel orders that a census of all grain be taken not
later than January "5. It Is provided that uny person who falls to announce
tho qunntlty of grain he possesses, or makes any fulse statement, is punishable
by a year'B imprisonment and $1000 tine Another decree establishes rules for
tho requisitioning of grain by the military authorities. The census and requisi
tioning measures arc Intended to prevent speculation in cereals and Insure &
sutllclent bupply for the necessities of the army and the population and to keep
down prices.
CLYDE ARMS PLANT STRIKERS FINED
LONDON, Jan. 10. The imminent adoption of compulsory military service
has in no way weakened the determination of the workers to "stand on their
rights." At Beardmore'a armament plant on the Clyde, a. workman named
Logan caused a disturbance becauso ho had to wait for an hour for his wages
and was dismissed because of his boisterous behavior. Logan's dismissal and
tho refusal of Bcardmore's to reinstate him caused a number of workmen to
walk out on "a question of principle." All arguments of patriotism and of (he
necessity to rush the output of ammunition as a vital condition for England's
victory were of no avail. Twenty-eight of ye strikers, all of whom were making
high wages, were arrested. They were fined $25 each under the munitions act
for "unlawfully ceasing work."
BAVARIAN SOCIALISTS REFUSE LUDWIG CROSS
BERLIN, Jan. 10. "Several Socialists were recently awarded the Lu)wt
Cross by King- Ludwlg of Bavaria for specially meritorious services perform! A h
the hour of their country's need," says tho Overseas News AgencyT -"The Sociall$t
fully recognize, the friendly spirit which prompted the KJ"S"s act and thanked
blm cordially for the distinction, but declined the decoration becauso they consld.
ered acceptance of it Incompatible with the principles of their pary aa omclally
expressed in resolutions."
warrant hud been Issued, for him, but
1
1
