ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY '
EDITION
THIKTY-PilXTII YFJVU
VOI . CXUX. No. 10.
, ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO, MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 1916,
Dally by CrrleJr or Mall, 60a
Month, mimic Ooplea, Sc.
KO PURPOSE Ef
MEHD. 10
K SNTI-TRUST
LIS HUSTL.
Attorney Genera! Explains
Policy of Department of
Justice to National Cham
bers of Commerce,
EFFORT IS MADE TO
PROTECT BUSINESS
Act, in Its Severity, Invoked
Only When It Is Shown
That Intent Has Been to
Violate Statute,
THE WEATIIER
WKATHKU l-OKKCAST.
Denver, Jan. 9. Now Mexico: In
creasing cloudiness with sn.w north
portion; much colder east portion Willi
colli wave nort Invent port Inn. Tues
day generally fair; colder southeast
portion.
at
LOCAL WKATHKU RKlfHlT.
l or twenty-four hours, ending
C p. m. yest.-rdny:
Maximum, 00 degrees; mlnimuiii,
20 degrees; rang?, 40 degrees; tem
perature of 6 p. m., 3f, degrees; south
west wind; cloudy.
which governs the federal und the
state courts In rases where they have
concurrent Jurisdiction. Thai is to
say, in any such case. If the federal
trade commission were tho first to
exercise jurisdiction, the tlepimment
of Justice would nwalt the conclusion
of the commission's proceeding be
fore taklnK any action, unlu-e special
circumstances should dictate a dif
lute, a different course."
NEW YORK'S MORALS
IMPROVE RAPIDLY
Y MOAMIHO JOURNAL SrtCtU. LCASOI WM)
Washington, Jan. 9. The policy of
the department of justice in tho en
forcement in the anti-trust laws is
outlined flt length in a statement
made public tonight by the Chamber
of Commerce of the United States,
.uiiioiinciiiL, the result of several con
ferences between Attorney Cenernl jstatcs
Gregory and a committee of the or. !
Knrilzatlon.
The outline, which was submitted lot
r.nd approved by the attorney general, i
is prefaced by un explanation that thai
chamber has constantly been present-
ed with Inquiries with regard to the)
relationship that might be established
fRV UORNINa JOURNAL Pr-SCIA. LEA8I0 WIRE
Now York, Jan. 9. Immorality and
commercialized vice are being rapidly
eradicated In New York City, accord
ing to a report made today of a re
cent survey by the bureau of social
hygiene, of which John I). Hockefel
ler, Jr., is chairman.
Tho report is intended to supple
ment nn lnvestiK-.it ion made In 1912,
and states that on November n, lillf,
only Tit.', disorderly places were found
as compared with 2,42 such places in
191?. i evacuation or the (iauipoll peninsula
"Data secured during the present in- mis been successfully carried out
BRITISH DREAM
OF CONQUEST OF
DARDANELLES IS
FINALLY ENDED
After Loss of 114,000 Men
and Several English and
One French Battleship the
Scheme Is Abandoned,
TIP OF GALUPOLI
PENINSULA ABANDONED
Plan to Capture Constantino
ple and Relieve Russia
Loses Out Because of Many
Blunders,
IRT MORNINO JOURNAL RMCIAL LtASCO WIRI)
London, Jan. 9 (9:45 p. m.) It Is
officially announced that the complete
vcstigalion shows that collusion be
tween exploiters of vice and officials
in the police department has ceased,"
the report.
BULGER JURY STILL .
UNABLE TO AGREE
Cleneral Sir Chnrles Monro report
that only one Itrldsh soldiers was
wounded In th- evacuation, and lhat
Ihern viri. mi r.'oiiiiilti.iu nmnnir tnt
French; that all the guns w-re saved,
except seventeen worn out ones which
were blown up.
I With the withdrawal of the Ulilish
and French forces from the southern
I lip of the (lulllpoli peninsula, after
the evacuation of the Anzae cove and
Suvla bay positions on the western
coast in the middle of December,
there lias come to an end a move
ment begun with expectations that. It
', would have a ureal bearing on the
ou-come of the. war.
Thousands upon thousands of men
lost th''lr lives In effecting- landings
on tho Turkish coast and in the fight
ing since, in addition, a number of
battleships and smaller war crnfi of
the entente allies have been sunk or
hot 'mat ne is insane. i ne ncuring was uunn.(n,-u.
mail , ...... . ., , n ... Th ,,kii ...nn...... nA..
comniei,-(i ana went 10 me jury eariy ; i,im-ii
IRV MORN, NO JOURNAL RRHCIAL LIA9CD WIRI)
Denver, Jan. 9. The Jury in the
between tho federal trade commission I case of James C. I'ulgcr, whose mental
and the department, and with re-i condition has been under investigation
quests for information as to the gov-1 in Westsido district court for moro
ernmetifs attitude in future anti-!thnn ft W,,k. w" s"" ollt rarV l0
trust proceedings. The : attorney gen-1 night. !t has been deliberating on.
eral was told, the statement sav's, thntth" cm,c f"r twenty-four hours, and
an expression trom him "might be re-!no woru" was received as to whether i
warded as reassuring to the public or not n verdict was in sight. !
mind," and "might dispel some of the Counsel for Rulger, sentenced to
uncertainty which heretofore existed." na"K during the week of February 27,
The statement in pnrt follows: I for the murder of L. F. Nicodcmus,
"HV w-nv of intrnrinelinn tho ntfr.r. nenvrr noiei pro i, it-ior. eoiiiciiueu
ney general expressed the view
much of the. misunderstanding that
of the
now exists in some quarter in relu-l
tion to the Sherman act is due to the?
fact that in the minds of many it has
come to be thought of as a statute
apart from the general body of laws.
This, he pointed out, Is not the case.
On the contrary, the Sherman act is
enforced by the department of Justice
lu the somi! manner and according ro
the same rules of policy as other stat
utes with the same care and with
neither morn nor less rigor. Plain or
Intentional violations are proceeded
aialnst as vigorously as under other
statutes. When, aa with all statutes,
duubtful cases arise in which there
was no intent to violate the law, they
are dealt with lust as similar oasr-a un
der other statutes are dealt with, that
is, wiui a. view oi onrorcing strict
compliance with the law, hut wlthoirt
unnecessarily stigmatizing or unneces
sarily burdening with litigation per
suns who have been honestly mistak
en as to the law and who stand ready
to rectify their mislak.
"Four points were then taken up:
First: The complaint that the law
Is uncertain.
"Second: The. policy of the de
partment of Justice as regards the
method of enforcing the law In ad
mittedly doubtful eaes.
"Third: Tho policy of the depart
ment in cases where it and the fed
eral trade commission are both
charged with the enforcement of the
law.
"Concerning the first point the at
torney general stated that while con
cededly there Is in the law of re-f-traint
of trade an era of doubt, In
the vast majority of cases It Is not
"iificult to tell whether a
transaction s or is not violation of
the statute.
(ises of MIsundei'stJicidlnR.
"On the question us to the policy
of the department as regards the
method of enforcing the law in those
cases which are admittedly doubtful,
the attorney general stated that.
where men have entered into a trans
action believing in good faith
Saturday,
Frisco Polhvman Killed.
San Francisco, Jan. 9. Thomas
Dcasy, n San Francisco policeman,
died today from bullet wounds re
ceived last night In an encounter with
a supposed highwayman who he had
ordered tn halt. Denwy'j murderer in
still at large.
ANOTHER DUPONT
ni mit niDrrirn
null i miLimLu;
j Dardanelles campaign which was be
gun In February, 19 Hi, with tho bom-
j bardment of Turkish forts at tho w-
trancii of tho straits, wbh the capture
' of Constantinople and the opening of
tho Bosphorous, which connect the
! Mediterranean with the Black sea, so
that Hussla might have nn avenue for
the receipt of arms and ammunition
; and aso for the exportation of Uuh-
Mian grain. For- England, success
I meant the prevention of another
Turkish Invasion of Egypt, and the
j permanent safety of the Suez canal
and Kngland's communications with
India,
In October, after the miceesaful In-
I vaslon of Serbia by the Teutons and
the Bulgars, and the reports that Oer
1 man ammunition was on Its way to
Turkey, a storm of bitter criticism of
the govern ment's Dardanelles cum
nalgn broke loose in Kngland. Sir
Fdward Carson, attorney general, re
signed from tho cabinet because of a
disagreement over tho campaign, It
mmm wan said, and Winston Churchill, first
' J lord of the admiralty, the principal
r , , i n i' in., i ' target of attack, also resigned. There
LXPIOSlOn IS Believed Ulie 10 also was a complete reorganization of
r i a t if. the French cabinet which was gencr-
ULltSICle mtlUenCeS and I W0 ally attributed to the Balkan situation.
II.. J--' The sending of the Ileet to force
Ul ltlcl i the Dardanelltw without, the co-oper
tUion of land forces wn generally
I conceded to have been the big lut
Itlal blunder of ihe campaign. The
! inadequacy of the land forces when
jthey were sent was criticized as an
, other.
I The campainn was marked by three
major operations, ono by the tleet
! alone and two by the land forces as
sisted by the fleet. The Iiel result
was the conquest of the tip of the
I Gallipot! peninsula for a distance of
three miles and a narrow segment
of its middle western coast about
twelve miles in length and hardly a
I mile deep.
COIflESS NOW
C00LINO DOWN
. i .....
in n jo
1 5 U
Excitement Has Been -Allayed
and Disposition Seems to
Be to Await Full Investiga
tion of Persia Incident,
HOKE SMITH TO LET
OFF STEAM THIS WEEK
Georgia Senator Will Ask Why
Southern Cotton Is Being
Held Up iit British Ports;
Has Received Cablegrams,
SIX OF ELEVEN
DIRECTORS ARE
NOT GUILTY; NO
VERDICT ON FIVE
For New Haven Defendants
Not Freed Jury Is Reported
to Have Stood Eight to
Four for Acquittal,
PARTIAL AGREEMENT
AFTER FIFTY-ONE HOURS
District Attorney Says Men
Not Favored by Verdict
Will Be Tried Again 'at
Earliest Possible Date,
Summary or War
. News oTYestcrday
The complete evacuation of the
'lullipoli peninsula by the Hi'IUhIi and
French forces, the withdrawal of the
French troops from the summit of
llirxslciti, south of Iliiilinans-Weilii'-kopf,
In the Vosges monnt.-ijiiH. and
the. siiiklnit of tho Itrltislt hattli'Nhip
King IMwnrd VII, after it had come
lu contact with a mine, are tho out
standing features In the war news.
I A Ulltlsh soldier wounded wan On
onis' casualty suffered in leaving the
Oallipoll peninsula, and there ubv
Was no likSfl of life In the sinking of
the King lidward VII.
Considerable, fighting is still going
on at i'artorysk on the Itussian front
where the Teutons twice have been r
pulsed with considerable losses lu at
tempting to recapture, that town Irom
the Itusslans. I'etrograd also report
that the AlC'tro-llungariaiis have been
driven from tho eastern lank of the
middle Strlpa river in east Cnlicln,
An attack by the Teutonic allies
against the. entente allies lu (lieecv
has not yet materialized, but aero
planes of tho central powers again
have bombarded the environs of Sa-lonlkl.
ft HORNINd JOURNAL SFIrlAL LF.ARHD Willi 1
Washington, Jan. 9. After a week
of open discussion. In the senate and
house, vongressiofiul incitement over
the foreign relations of (ho I'nlted
States has been considerably nlleyed.
Administration leaders appear to have
succeeded In provttllinff upon ni'ist of
tlu-ir colleagues to adopt a policy of
patient waiting for complete investi
gation of recent war zone incidents In
which Amerloiin lives were sacrificed.
Kventually the ; foreign relations
committee of thi iftenate will under
take deliberation (if all matters per
taining to the ICut .'iean conflict which
have come before it, Including pro
posed lnvcntli.jnti.ul into I'.rltlsh Inter
ference with nc'itral shipping and
belligerent attacks upon neutral ships
In which Ameri' an lives have been
sacrificed or imperiled.
Senator llolti Smith, of Georgia,
author of the res ijution which would
direct inquiry into the British treat
ment of trade, h w given notice that
he will address lire senate this week
on Phases of the Icotton situation as
affected by the aitjtude of Great Brit-! hours of deliberation, and the Jury
aln. Senator Hotce Smith and otherwnl, discharged. The final vote on
member of con, ress todav received I the five defendants upon which tho
actions which, accompanied by Ihe
formation of n number of alleged
dummy corporations, resulted in the
transfer of the steamships Harvard
and Yalo to the Pacific coast.
tXlicrs Arc I'.xcumxI.
The other directors were little
mentioned In the cWdcncc, and their
chief defense Was that they depended
upon the advice of Charles S. Mellen
or IMward 1. ftobblns in the ucts
charged against them, which virtu
ally consisted of casting their votes ill
favor of propositions that came be.
fore the directors for approval.
The defendants were indicted on
CLO-FOENG
FORCES LEAVE
GALL POL
GIBRALTAR NOW
Evacuation Carried Out With
out Loss, Declares Official
Report From Commanding
General,
LONDON DISAPPOINTED
OVER FINAL ACTION
One of England's Big War
ships Hits Mine and Sinks;
No Lives Are Lost, Accord
ing to Admiralty,
' tar MORHINIl JOURNAL tRtOIAL KAtlD WIRn ,. -;dwflrd 1'. ftobblhS ill I 1 Ul'tS tRT MORNING JOURMAt VPROAl tlAARQ WIRRI '
New York, Jan. U. Six of the 'charged against them, which vlrtu-l ''""don. Jan. 9 (lfl:in p. ni ) Thn
eleven former directors of the New ally consisted of casting their votes in rD""1'!,, pOM , nM,n',',l hy the allies
York New Haven a Hartford cbarg-: '"Vl"- propositions that came be. ! " (lUull peninsula have now been
11 in. .ew iijmii A. lluiiror.i. P"' fK" f (,lr,.,rH for approval i abandoned with the wounding of only
ed by the government with cr muml , l' ) lh w"ro In llelnd rmlon" mnn ,h ,,r"' "S
violation of . Sherman anti-trust lirv' ''U W'Tr ft ' 1 ' K.ench, according a Britbth official
aw, wee found not guilty late today ' , l ' , 1 1 n" 1 'l " state,,,,.,,! issued tonight.
mo,; is :',7b,,trvlne- tXJ T.m ''' U' n, ;',, "" tM
i v k m ? ! ; ,to th government and defendanta of , ra , by the kener observers
juiy dtsagieed the five others. i ,,,,.,. , ,,,i.. ,,..,i... (of the Near Kustern campaign forth,-
.....a L ii ri-. uiii ii-i n u iiiiiiiv.ii uiiiiiiin. ! .. . - . .. , -
""so .i:iiumii. l
Those
iiKiultted were: 1,. Newton
Barney, l'arnilngton, Conn.; Itobert
W. Taft, Providence, U. I.; James II.
Hemingwaj, A. Kenton Itobertson and
Frederick 1'. Hrewster, New lluven,
and Henry K. Mcllarg, Stamford,
Conn.
Those on whom the Jury disagreed
were: William itockefcllor. New York; , miner,
Charles F. ltrooker, Ansnnla, Conn.;
Charles) M. Pratt, Itrooklyn; 1-ewls
Cass l.edyard, New York, and Kdward
1). Itohbius, New Haven. i
llfty-ono Hours IH'lllicialinii. '
Tho verdict was returned at 4:30!
o'clock this afternoon after fifty-one:
hours of deliberation, and the Jury Teutons
Paris, Jan.
retirement of the troops from Annuo,
and Huvla, bay three weeks ago left no
strategic advantage to the retention
of tho tip of the peninsula.
t'auM"! Pbjir; r Itegret.
I .Neveiin'-iexs me news win be re
ceived with a Pang of regret by thi
peopl,, of the British Isten as well as
Ihn iiilfinlAu
according to advices received ; u,.n-.i .,iiViiu nt . nii,-
i.e.e i";.v. ,10 ,o ,..,, no.d hv ,n) Turuish official rom-
town authorities, met on the street munlcatlons in the past few day hna
and after some hot words which no presumably been In the nature of
fystander caught, I.oncgnn shot lnif-; preparatlonH for the final act of the
fy, who was unarmed. Lonegan was Dardanelles tragedy. Tonlht' Turk
arrested. , Ish official report, covering the period
from Thursday to Haturday. records
I nioii Iv'ler Is Kllliil. I
Melenn, Mont., Jan. U. J. Duffy, '
former president of the Itutto Mln-j
era union and at one time a mem
ber of the state legislature, was shot!
end killed late yesterday In phlllips-
burg, Mont., by Mike i.onegan, a
Jurors could not agree stood 8 to 4 for
acquittal,
K. L. Halts, chief counsel for the
government, announced that ho would
move for a new trial of these five.
This will be done, hi, mild, before any
effort will bo made to try tho six other nt five or six
former directors, or the road that were:
int'T'" VI in Americana in ' mdloted, but won. obtulned the right.
i ....ik;.. i...... i..t!o hi. fried jw.nnr.if elv ' " T :
i. mil nr ii. .iiiiiu m.'iicr i,i 1 ... -. ... , ...
cablegrams from the American Asso
elation f Comr tree and Trade In
Berlin playing fbr action to assist
American firms i Here declared to be
facing ruin beca me of tho Hrltisli
blockade.
"I did not liay t itch attention to tho
cablegram," aaid I Senator Smith. "I
:u a not
Merlin.
Monaco SalonlUI.
0 16:10 p. m ) A dls
Temps from Salonlkl
patch to the
says:
"Tho concentration of Austro-Oer-man
troops around Motumtlr Is con
firmed. The llulgaiian forces massed
In the region of Olevgell, Dolran,
Htrumltsa and Petrich ure estimated
llvlsion.'
the Americans who Slav at home. I Instructed ,y tottrt.
want American citiiens in the t:nlt.edi The jurors did not reach their ver
States to have their rights." ! ullt" nfK'r they bad reported In
Hed Tapo on lrearelili'v'5. (Judge Hunt earlier in thn day that
Deliberation oil the HuMect of na-j they could not agree. Cp to that time
tlonal nropo redness is now falrlv un. nunn they had lieeu deiiberattiiK
SEVERAL KILLED
Men Are Reported
Arrest for Crime,
(RV MORUIKO JOURNAL SRVCtAi. LlAIf D WIRI
riiiladelpbla, ,lun. 10. .At least;
right persons arc reported to hac
oeen kllhvl in an explosion at the
plant, of the lii Pont Powder company
at Carney's Point. N. ,1., eaily today.
proposed The steamer Long- Hiwh, willed was
just leaving; It.s lK.'ii, was- mown part
ly out of the witter. 'oiu of the )as
scngers, however, nre IM-Ileved to have
been hurt. The force of the explosion
was mo great that It wa heuril in this
rlt.v, twenty-five miles distant. xho first disaster came March 10,
Later reports said that, thirteen (when mines blew up the French bat
been killed and seven severely binned: tieHnjp liouvet and the Kritlsh bat
that I lie blast, was eniisen ny oiiisiue i t,,1HhiI. 7rrpSM,ii,i nn.i (.,. when
tllat luflueiiiTs mid thut two men luui ite n , thiy WPI.(, a,t(.mpting a dash for the
tin, transaction is a lawful one. and arrested. .s all wire eommun u, . I1Hrrows. the fortifications of which
subsequently upon complaint made, j ' C'nriM'y s 1 olnt was eut j they had been bombarding for sev-
. l,u-.,.. ,,..,. ... .... - .., , eral weegs.
ne iwiiirmeu.
The explosion neeurred In the Hos-
, leiier plant mill where tne niicfi
Erniles of smokeless ixiwder nre pre
pared for shipment. It liapw-niil
the department reaches the Cofiolu
sion that the transaction was not in
accordance with the statute, ii has
not been and will not be the policy
"f the department to invoke extreme
penalties against them. in such a , ,.,.., x.,.,.i,., i,,i
NIPPED BY
and set ud a new government under
either Paulir or Rourand, former sen
ators, was behind the revolutionary
outbreak at Port-au-Prince last Wed
nesday, Rear Admiral Caperton re
ported today in an aero message to
the navy department.
The message revealed for the first
time that the new disturbance extend
ed bevond Port-au-Prince. It titated
n? (,.lu'7;,r1('nl J"1'1 "f1,;ri changed at, midnight.
...v judv ttntl tim ru nu en- j j -
prort-edinir in which the question in- HAITIEN MURDER PLOT
Vfdved could be contested or a con
''tit decree entered, or by a notice
'it the department's conclusion with
opportunity to abandon or modify
he transaction.
"Wherein working out the. remedy
hi a particular case difficult ques
tions of business organization and of
finance shall be encountered, it will
he the desire apd the policy ol the
'iPartment to seek the assistance of
he. trade commission.
When Grounds Are Vnjust.
"The discussion then turned to the
measures tnken by the department
'o guard against prosecutions for
which there is not Just ground. On
his point the attorney general elated
hat no proceeding is ever instituted
until the most painstaking and ex
haustive investigation of the facts
which it is possible to maks. jVs a
Part of this Inquiry, the person or
corporation against whom complaint
's made, unless it has already declar
ed its attitude, is given full opportun
ity to submit its defense before any
fiction is taken. This is done, he
Pointed out. not only as a matter of
Jiistlco to those against whom com
plaints are made, but as a matter of
prudence on the part of the depart
ment, for iast of all hau the depart
ment any interest in instituting a suit
which should subsequently turn nut
o be without foundation.
' As to it policy in cases where
I'Oth the department and the federal
trad commission are charged wilh
the enforcement of the law as under
he Clayton act, he attorney general
stated that the department would, in
general, be guided by the principle
Several other vessels were dam
aged at the, same time and the. fleet
withdrew to Ihe Aegean sea. On the
same duy, it was announced that Ad-
; mlral Carden, the Hritish command-
er, had been replaced by Admiral
I DeRoebeok. DeHoehecli continued
the bombardment with an occasional
dash into the straits by the ships un-
AMERICANS!1'
Naval forces were landed March
24 at Seddul-ltahr, the tip of the
peninsula, hut they were, not strong
enough to hold their positions,
they destroyed the fortifications. Al-
pril
( HORNING JOURNAL RMCIAL ICACIO WIRRI
Washington, Jan. 9. A well organ
ized Dlot bv the llaitien black party
to assassinate President d'Artlguetiave j n, troops, for a landing, came
26, but meantime the Hritish bat
tleship Triumph had been uunk and
Iho submarine K-15 Went aground
and fell a victim to Turkish fire.
The first contingent of British
troops under the cnimund of Gen
eral Sir Ian Hamilton, relatively
small in -lumbers, landed at Heddul
liuhr in April, but not without heavy
i losses, french troops lunded on the
hand.
Previous advices said that the ma
rinra at Port-au-Prince were attacked
,iH .iii.i in fin. fichtimr that followed'
Corporal Weder was seriously wound-' insula ne;
ed. one Haltien was killed and others i-ward cam
wounded.
.i . .1 l...:nn. j nun.. .. rt mr & hnrl
been arrested and that the American ; Aliitl side but they stayed there
marines had the situation well in "nl.v three days. The French suhse-
UV,,'.Y loiiii'i, mr- nil nmg (ji uiu
Uriiish on Seddul-Hahr.
Karl in May other Hritish troops
landed on the north side of the pen-
ar Art Harnu, which after-
ame to lie known as Anaacenve.
The name was taken from tho Initials
of the Austrian and New Zealand
MEXICAN BANDITS ARE
landing forces. Their object was to
TUDT ATTMIMn PHRHFR ' croBH ,h peninsula und cut the eoni
I flnCM I LmINU DUnuU ; munications of th.f Turkish divisions
- at Seddul-Hahr and storm the Turkish
;cr UCRM1KO JCURHAL C!Al lAIO WIRtl I fort Otl tile (iOllipoll Kill, Of th nT-
ISrownsville, Tex., Jan. 9. Despite i rows, thus opening the way fur the
a peaceful Saturday night and Sun-! safe entrance of the Hritish fiVcl.
day along the lower Texas border, I They sustained terrible lossea and al
rumors of a threatened renewal of'rnosl from tnat moment the fighting
bandit activities persisted tonight, and. settled down to trench warfare which
,.rrtr.r, .rr i.oicil ni Fort Itrowu fori was maintained until August 6. when
with a view to bringing la a verdict
on tho guilt or innocence or tno de
fendants collectively. The court then
Instructed them to make further ef
forts to concur and that If they could
not agree upon all, to try and roach
a decision on some. The vote on the
question of all at (hat time also stood
fi to 4 for acquittal, It was learned.
Six l-'ret'd I naiilmoiisly.
On returning to the Jury room the
Jurors renewed their discussion with ;
the courts lustrucliotm In mind, audi
unanimously eliminated the six de
fendanta that were acquitted. Two;
of the four Jurors who had voted
against me ueienoanis originauy
stood firm against Messrs. Itockefcl
lor, Ledyard, Hrooker, Pratt and Rob
bins. Tlifn lb,, other two (twitched
to their original position, leaving S
to 4 n the final verdict.
Two Defendants Absent.
William Rockefeller, who Is 111, and
Henry K. Mdlarg, were not present
when the Jurors filed into court. The
nine other defendants were In their
tksual seals, With the entrance of
Ihe Jurymen, with their hats and coats
in hand, presaklng a verdlel, the men-i
I a I state of the defendants was obvi
ously one of lensi- strain. I
Tile cour, thanked the Jury after'
A MR PI Arm IM (All i"1" verdict had been announced, but;
nU ILMVjLU IIM JnlL; hardly had he concluded when de
fendants' attorneys and others in the
courtroom were on their feet and'
there was a gen era I handshaking.
Charles S Mellen, former president
of the New Haven and Ihe chief wit-,
niss In Hie case, was not. In court.
Chief Issues Considered.
While they bad discussed all Ihe
principal phases! of the case, Ihe
jurors said, Ihe chief liwues of debate
were Hie mailer of alleged suppres-(
sion by the New Ilaveii of eompeli-i
tion, of Ihe Joy steamship line and
the acquisition of the Huston r Maine
by which the government
charged the New Haven completed lis
nnui'Mnily of the transport traffic of.
New' Kngland.
The so-called lilllard transar Hons
der way lu both houses of congress.
The leaders agree Hint ft will tie many
weeks before any definite Idea cun oe
formulated as to the naval and army
bills. This week' the senate commlt
teo on military affairs will begin
hearings on army reorganization, tho
housn committee having begun last
week.
Other committees will begin work
tomorrow framing the rivers und har
bors bill which will aggregate approx
imately $4(l.000,nnn, the urgent defic
iency bill for which ostlmnteu aggre
gating $3,000,000 already are In for
the present fiscal year, the Indian ap
propriation till, aggregating $10,000,
000, und the postofflce appropriation
bill.
The annual fight over the rivers and
harbors bill will be launched tomor
row when Representative Krear of
Wisconsin will make a speech against
the forthcoming measure. Represcnt
fillve Heflln of Alabama will speak
Tuesday, amplifying his churge of a
conspiracy between speculators and
spinners on the New York cotton ex
change to beat down Hie price of col
tori, ' i
nmmi r miirrpr
UUUULL IIIUIIULII I
! IWyfiTFRYfifllUFfl!
IIIIUIUIII UUklbM
I BY CONFESSION
i
the increasing effectiveness of rein
forcement of tho Turklah batterlea
which have been drawing in and con
centrating on the allies' remaining po
sitions, i
Hlg Ilauietditp lost
Another pang to the Hritish public
will be caused by the announcement
tonight of the loss o( the hattleahlb
Klnr Kriwnrit VII u hl,.w , hu . hn
blown up by a mine. The brief official
' j statement on this subject doea not re
f veai the ju'enc- or th action tihd'mer-
' lU UMV'U thilt lliA .1 1 ua !.. fiiimi.pu In
a. heavy ne. despite which the entire;
crew, wiia aaved before th ship won't
down.
"MOUNDAY ARRESTED
mt MORNINO JOURNAL RPICIAL LCAtttO WIRRI
Kansas City, Jan. If. Don A.
Mounbay, convicted of illegal use of
the mails In connection with the sale
of New Mexico land, was arrested
and placed in jail tonight In Kansas
City, Kansas. Postal authorities
said this action was taken because
they believed MounDay was fleeing
o Canada. His appeal to the t'nited
Strifes supreme court, resulted recent
ly in a. confirmation of his convic-
lion lnr, Hi'lll I'll.'.. Ilf Itvn vIMiru ill
til'tuon ii nil lh,. ivivmen, ..I ;i fii, nf I I "I o,l(l
$2,001) and Ihe defendant Was given ,
until Thursday of this week to sur
render himself.
MounDay urrived here todav from
Texas.
Thu Kin F.'Jward VII represented
an Inveutrnentmeiit of nearly 1,800,000
' pounds and was one of the finest uf
the last class of pre-dreHdnaughts,
corresponding In general th the Amer
ican ships of the New Jerjey and Ne
braska type, and waa only slightly
I older than the Natal, which was auuk
I by an Internal explosion about a week
: ago.
Seventeen-year-old Boy, Ar-1 nn(Ztl!Z
rested in Beaumont, Admits
Killing M.lll and Woman ''i""" Announces that the Germans
milium man aim vvuuiaii ,)nve l.(,n,p1.t(1 lhu ,.,. llture of p0Ml.
Near Palomas Hot Springs, n1rM,rl,',r,,,m"B'fw,,lk'rak0,,t Klu,kp"
' by the French a few day before
i 'Christmas.
I Hreek correspondenta continue to
IRV MORN, Nil JOURNAL RRBCIAL LRARflO WIRIl 1 aHSCf t tllttt tllB HulgaTlanS Uttd 0,r-
Heaumont, Tex., Jan, . Albert mans am hastening planrt for an at
Houchln. seventeen-vear.old son of J. tack on Saloulkl. But the Austrlana
Ia. Houchln, of Weatherford, Tex., ar- ire fighting hsrd against tho Ruimlana
rested here yesterday upon a clue oh- ud Montenegrins, and the Hulgars are
tallied by a mis-delivered letter, bus largely occupied a resolute attempt
admitted to the police that is wanted to rein-h the Adriatic, from which they
for killing R. i!l. Hammond, a horse are only forty miles distant, at Klbaa-
trader, and a woman whoso mime he win, Albania.
did not know. Tho killing took place' Kngland's Internal affairs fire quiet,
at Palomas Hot Springs, N, M., No- pending the reassembling of parlia-
vcnibor 27, last. .incut. There will be a full dress de-
llouchin had been working for hate on the compulsion bill Tuesday.
Hammond, lie says Hammond abused with David Llnyd-Oeorge, minister of
him. He tells the police that he shot munitions, and Arthur Henderson,
Hammond with u Winchester In his '"hor member, who hna Just resigned
tent on Ihe outskirts of Palomas and from tho cabinet, as the probable star
that when the woman advanced on speakers. Sir llenry Halislel, who has
him he shot her. lie admits to taking hecn one of the most consistent critics
$4,oon from Hammond's trunk. From -of the government, also will give htj
Palomas ho went to Culler, thence lo reasons why ho supports the govern
Demlng and to Kl Paso. I'rom there ment on this matter. -
city, then re-! inn moor party win meet early in
at Weatherford. , the week to consider its position. I'n-
less, however, opposition to the bill
develops a strength of which there la
no indication now, there seems small
likelihood thai the government will
feel tho need h uiiieu to the country.
advised him lo
Paces Had Check t liurgc.
East Las Vegas, N. M., Jan. fl.
Accused of passing a forged check
for $27. GO at the store of K. Rosen
wald & Son, Hert Shlpman Is under
arrest at French, Not until the check
reached the San Miguel bank Friday
wan it discovered that the signature,
that of 8. L. Ha-rker of Heulah, was
not genuine. Rosenwald s had ac
cepted the check the day previous.
Shipniau was stopped at French on
request of Chief of Police P.en- Coles
of this city.
be went, to Kansas
turned to his pie
tils fattier, be says,
gel away.
The boy was toing under Ihe name
of W, I), Kr nun. His father wrote
to him, sending him $IOa In hills und
telling him to gel nut of the country,
as the officers were alter him. This
leller was delivered to another party
who tipped the officers off. The
sheriff at RohwiII notified the police
iih;
'ii'.. n. t'O'llt'.llv 1 n in I I hi, liiri.t'u
said, having been in Iho opinion of,fPn,n
most of them rub'd out in the charge;
of Judge ilunt.
Regarded Not, 1'ertluent.
There was ulso comparatively little
dlscu-Miion on tho Metropolitan attain-
ship deal, tho question being whether!
it was a private transaction of Rob-1
bins, or a Joint transaction of all tho!
' New Haven directors. The liraudi
; Trunk also was not a pertinent issue,
it waa salu.
The Jurors explained that they had!
sought to follow the Instruction of
the court In his charge that t hey i
should decide first whether the al-;
Inged conspiracy, of which the de-
lonlght that he would come for Hon-
SCARCITY OF DOCTORS
HAMPERS INSURANCE ACT
imiTisii warmiip
mis mini; and sinks
victory, capturing the Turkish posl- ffiuiuuts were accused, waa in rxist
tlona before them, but the failure of!nce In IM'O, when the government
on,, of the divisions of the Suvla bay charged it began, ann was continuous
expedition to accomplish Ihe task us-(down to the date of the indictment.
Hlunerf ,o II. nrevented them fromlThey reached no agreement on this
half of two companies of infantry and
half of two companies of Cavalry to
remain "within call" for use should
emergency arise.
reinforcements landed, again with
great casualiiea, in the famous Ansae
cove and Huvla bay positions.
The veteran Anx-ic troop won a
driving it home. The Hritish succeed-
d In effecting a junction of their
forces, but gainid no great military
advantage. The fighting here has
been described as the. most awful of I Rockefeller
tho war, both Hide Buffering tremen
dous losses.
On November Premier Asqulth
told parliament that the Dardanelles
campaign ha been a failure.' I'p to
December 9 the total Hritish casual
ties on the peninsula were 1H,5!5
men kll ed, wound' d or ip'tie-
question, they said.
As lo Uoi LefHlcr.
Of tho five defendant!, whoso guilt
or innocence was not decided, William
was ihe only one whose
term of service asm New Haven di
rector was continued throughout the
entire time of the alleged conspiracy.
He anti-dated Charles K. Hronlu r by
three years. Messrs. Ledyard and
( Ariiiot'liilril Frr rnrrrspnnili-nr.,
London, Jan. !. Th operation of
tho Insurance act, with its free medi
cal attention to the low waged class,
is seriously hampered by lack of doc
tors. In London, the 1,4 Iff panel doc
tor? have In eii reduced by 170 who
have Joined Ihe forces, leaving 1,27a
to look after London's million and a
'half Insured persons. If the remain
! log number is further reduced by the
new armies, the medical benellt of
the Insurance ait may he allowed lo
lapse, which would bung great suf
(ermg upon the poor,
j ' Women must be encouraged to eti-
l'-r the medical profession," said Kins
'ley Wood, ice-i liairman of the Lon
idiin insurance committee, speaking of
the need of doctors, "and It should
'also be made possible for poor but
clever men to enter ihe profession.
Dlhirwl.se tin-re will be considera
ble shoitagi
of time." .
London, Jan. fl fS.fi.', p. m.) The
Hritish battleship King Udward VII
has been sunk after striking a mine.
The entire crew was saved.
The sinking of the King Kdward
VII was announced by the admiralty
In the following statement:
"II. M. S. King Kdward VII has
struck a mine. Owing to the heavy
sea she had to be abandoned, and sank
shortly afterward. The ship's com
pany was taken off without any loss
iof hfc. Only two men were Injured."
Th" King Fdward VII was a battle
ship of ii",,:i,i0 tons laid down In
March, l!iu2. She was 453 feet long.
,7.H feet beam an, : feet draught. She
hail four K'-inch, four tt. I-inch and
(en li-inch guns In her main buttery
and was equipped with lour torpedo
lube", submerged, ller speed on her
irial trip was 1 fl knots. She had a
compliment ,.f 777 men.
Print took i.iirt In th,. trftiiSriilioi, , 1
which led to the acquisition of Ifiej Olui-goii llispilres Ssilalit.
stock of the P.ostoi, & Maine in 1!i7, Ml Paso, Tev., Jan. !i. A special
The losuea In the evaeaatio of thi and aa directors of the latter road be--train bearing Dr. 11. fl. Klngley, of
Suvla bay and Ansae cuv ies.o,i were I came directors of the NV-w Haven Tucson, Ariz., to (leu. Alvuro Obrcgon
declared by the Hi itih at Ihe lime to when the boston & Main.' vn liiki-n mt Quen-laro, left Juarez today. It was
have been only three men wounded over. Kdward I. Robblna was gen- said (ieneral Obregon was Buffering
making the total caaualtiea in leaving, eral counsel of the road and figured from an affection of the throat and
the peninsula four men.
I.ON IM IN Nt AVM'APKHS
i:HOItsi; KY.VCTATIOX
loiulon, .,i. in. The London
morning newspapers comment with
satisfaction and relief on the auccesi
ful evacuation of Callitudl. They
at no very great distance consider, despite (leneral Munro'a
generous tribute to Oenerals Hird-
in the Metropolitan steamship trana- hud summoned the physiciun.
wood und I 'n vies, thai credit for the
remarkable double retirement shn'-H
be attributed to (ieneral Munro him
self. 'Ihe Times says edltorlallj;
'Twice within a few weeks Uenernl
Munro has managed to remove his
men Hnd guns under the eyes of tho
Turks and their Herman officer. W
doubt If a precedent for such mi
