"Ashland Grows While Lithla Flows'
City of Sunshine and Flowers"
Ashland, Oregon, Lithla Springs
"The Carlsbad of America"
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 1916
NUMBER 66
Says Good Valley
Poultry Market
(By W.W. Watson in Medford Mall
Tribune.
Reference to our advertising col- i
limns will disclose the fact that 1
cents is being offered for heavy hens
and spring cockerals In this city. This
suggestion ought to afford the aver- j
age farmer in this valley "food for
reflection". That is an old phrase,
but it oifght to be taken very seri
ously in this case.
The price for chickens means
money to the farmer who has the
chickens. It suggests consciousness
$ AX OPTIMIST. S
S An optimist is a nun who can $
Q make wholesome lemonade out $
v of all the lemons people hand S
? him. 3
s $ 3 $$. $ 4 $? $ $
Remodeling of
Hotel Under Way
Mr. Dobbins tells us that the re
modeling of the Hotel Oregon is now
under way. This, however, does not
of neglect to the farmer who has no j meant that the hotel or any part of
thickens. j it Is closed. The dining room Is open
Suppose the farmer who succeeded 1 and running as well as the rooms,
in raising enough produce for chick-1 The first work to be done will be the
en feed last yea- had possessed the , plumbing, installing of the hot and
chickens to consume it and were now j cold water in every room in the
able to offer a carload of poultry to house. Every room on the front of
an eager market. It would be worth , the second story will be equipped
to him $2000. How many farmers I with bath and porcelain toilets and
raised $2600 worth of anything last lavatories of the most modern kind,
year in this valley without irriga- On the top floor there will two and
tion?
As a matter of business fact, this
valley should easily supply a car
load of live chickens for shipment to
outside markets every week of the
52 In the year. The aggregate of
possibly four baths and toilets with
complete equipments. Every sample
room will have its lavatories sep
arate, with all necessary toilet arti
cles. In fact, as far as all of these
items go, there will not bo any hotel
Mayor Johnson's Annual Message
To City Council of Ashland
To the Common Council and People ! occurring necessary through contln
of Ashland, Ore.: t ual improvement and growth, this
Again, following custom, I submit applying especially to the water and
the following annual mesuge to the electric departments respectively,
council. I shall vary from custom in I believe the council should, dur
being more brief, dealing with thong the coming year, and as early as
future Instead of the past, prospect- means can be provided, provide some
ive, not retrospective. I will, how- system of water conservation so we
ever, state that the council within may not again suffer a shortage of
the past three years have achieved water supply and the city's electric
much; their work is self-evident. light. This can easily be done, ac-
The result of exercised energy, their jcordlng to reports of competent au
4
? ARK YOU VSIXfl
v. THK GLASS OF WATER
KXVEIiOPKS
In your roii-CHiMmtlcnce?
that would mean only $20,000 a year, v.-i t h which he is acquainted that has
which would be a pitifully small out- better facilities. The hotel will have
put of chickens alone for this conn- its own private telephone exchange,
ty annually. j with a telephone and fire alarm call
San Francisco receives from five ' jn every room. There will be a letter
to ten carloads of poultry each week chute from each floor direct to the
from Kansas and Nebraska, states in mail, box in the office,
which it costs more money to raise All the locks on the doors will be
poultry 'than It does in this valley change! to the modern style, with
because the percentage of loss is to 1 pi. '-nobs p??er !:e; s,
much greater. Why should not j Beautiful new lace curtains have
Rogue River valley fanners supply a . been ordered through Mr. McGee for
portion of that demand?
But here is a market at home for
chickens at 13 cents a pound. Man
ager Gardner of the local poultry
company, 6ays he wants all they can
obtain, In fact, the demand is unlim
ited; and yet not enough is raised
to supply the home demand.
Farmers do not have to hunt for
a market and suffer risks of ship
ment. The market came to them and
now begs them to supply it.
Beyond a doubt this is one of the
big Industries of the Rogue River val
ley that Is overlooked shamefully.
There Is no legitimate excuse for
there being a shortage of poultry sup
plies in this valley at this time.
Sunday
Blue Law
Held in Abeyance
The few confectionery stores,
which, are practically the only stores
la A6hland which now remain open
on Sunday, will probably remain open
on Sunday, at least until after elec
tion next November, when the people
of the state will have a chance to
. Toice their decision as to an air-tight
Sunday. A temporary injunction re
straining the enforcement of the
Sunday law was continued by a Judge
In the chcult court of Multnomah
county last Friday, until the Novem
ber election. This decision will prob
ably be accepted by all over the state.
It was made certain last week that
an Initiative measure to repeal the
general Sunday closing law in Oregon
will be placed before the people at
Uext November's election, when can
vassers for signatures reported to
Portland headquarters a .total of over
20,000 names on the initiative peti
tion. As but 22,000 are required and
hundreds were pouring in, tho num
ber is doubtless 6ecured by this time.
People in many sections of the state
are included among the signers. No
previous initiative petition has met
with such ready response as this one,
according to the canvassers.
In Ashland many signed petitions
who would favor some kind of closing
law but who believed that the present
law is unfair and discriminatory. The
present law arb'trarily put3 under the
ban certain useful and necessary
works, businesses and occupations
while exempting certain others with
out cause.
The Portland Oregonian asks:
"Why, for example, should a grocery
store be shut up and a bakery left
open? Or a theatre be unmolested
while a baseball game is strenly sup
pressed?" -
And goes on to say: "No one
worth heeding calls for the literal en
forcement of the law as It stands
not even the authors of the new rest
day which Is to be a substitute for the
orthodox Sunday: If now through the
mistaken zeal of misguided zealots
we are to have a campaign to make
a dead law a live Issue, a great deal
of harm win be done harm to the
all the windows. These i'urtains are
the same as the beautiful New-house
Hotel at Salt Lake City has at Its
windows.
As the other features are fully de
cided on the Tidings will from time
to time publish them.
Final arrangements were complet
ed the last of the week for the re
modeling. Many radical changes in
the exterior of the hotel as well as
the interior are contemplated, but
exact plans have not yet been de
cided upon. The work will be active
ly pushed, however, and by next sum
mer Ashland will have a beautiful
hotel of the semi-tourist type with
accommodations of "the best. Messrs.
Perozzi and Owens, the owners, are
determined to make the hotel equal
to the best on the coast in the way of
appointments.
!: ' '
t ' t 7-" 1
fe-.-- , i ; '. V.. '- v-v 'i
V ' - 'I
') v;,;.',7
4- .
s These envelopes are a splen
did advertisement for Ashland
and they cost you no more than
the plain envelope.
i Do you not feel it a duty to
do what you can to advertise
i Ashland when it costs you noth-
ing but a little thought and ef-
s fort?
TEX CENTS FOR 23 AT
t THE TIDINGS OFFICE.
$2.,r.0 IN LOTS OF 500 WITH
YOUR BUSINESS CARD PRINT
S' ED ON THEM.
s The Commercial Club has the
;! Unexpected Makes
Act a Scream
Kerslake and his trained pigs were
I heralded as the headline act in tho
Empress program which was offered
;last Thursday at the Vining theatre,
but Ashland will remember Walton
' and Brandt, billed to give "baseball
' comic talk" long arter the little black
and white pigs are forgotten.
1 1 Mr. Walton and Miss Brandt had
'j an a(t which in itweir was catchy but
iwhen the male member of the team
ilet his avoirdupois down too sudden
ly and broke his chair, causing com-
j locations, the audience and the ac
tors dissolved into infectious roars
of laughter which lasted for fifteen
: iuiiuites. The couple put In a lot of
booklet of analyses which you
can get for the asking and put
one of them In each letter you
write. YOU CAN HELP IF
YOU WILL.
i -i; h -t, .) ,
1.1
wit and humor which their act as
suredly did not contain before and
Deep Snow To
North and South c:
The heaviest snows In several
years are reported from both north
and south, while .Ashland has to be
content with a fall of about two
got away" with the act in a scream-
i ingly funny way.
j( The whole bill was good, a seven
'lilece orchestra, under the direction
'of Harry llowclls, adding greatlv to
tho enjoyment of the evening.
Col. Ileoza Liar, most comic of all
comic moving picture cartoons open
ed the bill. Msrtyn and Florence in
lucdy juggling act, presented
some new "stuff" In a snappy manner.
While their Juggling was nothing
wonderful, the uniqueness of tho act
nindo it better than the ordinary.
Marie Dreams, lady baritone, re
ceived An ovation. Her singing was
inches, not even enough for coasting i i'pally of a belter class than many,,
for tho youngsters. However, condi-1 ll,an' "lel1 baritones who havo sung
Hons imlicato more snow and we may ! here.
yet gi t more than enough. All over I The Musical Hunters presented a
northern Oregon snow has fallen, ' biasing musical act tho feature of
MAYOR, O. II. JOUXSOX.
best judgment and the judicious use
of financial means at their command,
it stands as a monument to them.
And the people are the Judges. This
applies to every depart:!. eat of the
city's affairs.
Turning from the pagt and pres
ent, what may we see in the future
for Ashland? Possibly enough has
been said from time to time along
this line, but .this much is certain,
whatever the future holds for us, It
will continue to hold unless released
through united effort of our people
thority: y .-hat we need is the means
:.nl 1 v.ou'.d urge the "will" to find
the "way."
We may expect people to visit us.
We may expect them to locate In pro
portion as we use our efforts along ! fallen this morning.
Portland having six Inches Friday.
Hood River has over a foot. Snow
between here and Roseburg is much
heavier than usual. Over five feet
Is said to be on the summit of the
mountains south of Roseburg. A
phone from the Lindsay place in
Dead Indian reports four feet of snow
In that vicinity. There is about four
feet on the Siskiyou summit and
more falling, almost a foot having
which wns a descriptive number call
ed "Tho Chase".
The skit, "Birds of a Feather" wns
fair and gave Eddie Herron an oppor
tunity for some facial expression
work which tickled the audience.
Kerslnke's performing pigs made
up a most excellent bill. The pigs
went through all of the stunts per
formed by trained dogs of the old
"dog and monkey" shows, and sev-
Tourists Booked
For Next Spring
As an Index of how Ashland's fame
Is slowly but surely spreading over
the country, Manager Dobbins Is In
receipt of a letter from the Frank
Tourist Company of 396 Broadway,
New York, who state that they are
booking many tourist parties to the
Pacific coast for the coming season,
and are including Ashland In as
many as they can. Manager Dobbins
offers them extra Inducement in the
way of hotel rates, and will person
ally arrange In advance of party ar
rivals special sightseeing trips, rates
for the same and other pleasure en
tertainment. Mr. Dobbins says a little later he
is going to ask for a standing com
mittee from the Ladies' Civic Im
provement Club and the Commercial
Club, these standing committees to
assist In entertaining distnguished
visitors during the season. He thinks
this would work more satisfactorily
than special committees, as a stand
ing committee is always available on
short notice.
Minnesota receives 10,000 new set'
tiers yearly.
all lines of general Improvement of !
our surroundings and resources.
T1"m same high standard of excel
lent service should be maintained in
every department. I do not believe
we should attempt at any time to
economize through cheap and ineffi
cient and overworked service; I be-
to obtain it. We,can not remain the j Heve In reasonably well paid, profi-
passive subjects of chance. TheCicnt service, and a sufficient num
things worth having come through j ber of employes on every department
exercising all that constitute our 1 to secure such service. I believe the
means to possess. The more united best is cheapest. I would not recom
the efforts the earlier and greater mend any increase In the number of
will come results. I feel sure that I employes in the city's service at pres
if the new council will serve as faith- ent unless changes in certain depart-
fully, being as energetic, fearless and nients demand same. Neither would
sacrificing as the members just pass-' I recommend any further increase in
lng out, no halt will occur In the. salaries under present conditions.
city's affairs, and much will be ac- Trusting that Ashland may maln-
compllshed. As the city grows the tain her reputation as a clean, pro-
At Sisson there eraJ new stunts. Mr. Kerslake must
is five feet and about six at Edge,
wood.
Even In the lower valley for some
peculiar reason the fall was heavier
have spent hundreds- of weary hours)
with these pigs.
The atendance was good, and a
weekly Empress vaudeville show
than at Ashland, eight incres being sPe'" assured for Ashland. The pec-
reported yesterday from Gold Hill.
All telegraph and telephone lines
were down up to a late hour this
morning, to the north, and were
working with difficulty to the south.
The high line of the California-Oregon
Power Company is down In sev
eral places between here and Fall
creek.
pie really appreciate good theatre at
tractions and when tho prices aro
within the compass of eveybody's
pocket, book, as tho Empress bills
are, the attendance is good.
greater will be the work In every de- gresslve city and make effort to even
partment. more Justly deserve It, that we may
I do not hesitate to use the word all rise above the little self Ish things
grow," as I believe In the future of of life and work together more har-
our city. I believe In her resources monlously for a greater and better
and in her people, but I repeat that It
is a matter strictly up to the people
and their representative, the council.
Therefore, I urge co-operation, op
timism and disposition to conserve
her interests and a zeal toward great
er things. Much is to be worked out
in detail in several departments, this
city and for the good of all, and ex
tending herewith my heartfelt grati
tude to those who have so loyally
given their support and co-operation
and wishing all a prosperous and
happy New Year, I am,
Most respectfully,
O. II. JOHNSON, Mayor.
Sunday Closing
Law Held Legal
Nigeria formerly sent 44 per cent
of Its exports to Germany.
Baseball is said to have originated
In New York.
cause of a rational Sunday observ
ance, which most people now agree.
Is proper.
"It may well be hoped that the
relic of early-day foolishness which
still reposes on the statute books
almost forgotten" in its well-desprved
negHect will be permitted to remain
there until the people or the legisla
ture have an opportunity to say what
they want in the way of Sunday ob
servance. The attention of the pub
lic and the authorities ought not now
be diverted from the prohibition law.
It Is enough for the time."
Judge Wolverton in the federal
court in Portland has sustained tho
Oregon Sunday closing law as in ac
cord with both federal and state con
stitutions. His ruling came with a
denial of the application of the
Brunswick-Balke-Collender Company
for an Injunction against District At
torney Evans and other Oregon dis
trict attorneys to prevent them from
enforcing the law.
"That the law is sometimes called
a Sunday law," says Judge Wolver
ton,. "does not alter the question,
and the Interpretation must be had
by a consideration of the act Itself."
This was in reference to the conten
tion of religious liberty.
Nor does the fact that the law has
been little enforced require Its nulli
fication now," says the decision.
Points of the decision ave that the
law does not violate the fourteenth
amendment of the federal constitu
tion, or the twentieth amendment to
the state constitution.
- The case will be taken to the Ore
gon supreme court.
Phone newi items to the Tidings
Hotel Dining
Room Re-Opens
After being closed for repairs and
renovation for some time, the Hotel
Oregon dining room will reopen to
day and will remain open throughout
me remodeling process, several in
novations have been installed in the
hotel kitchens and the equipment
greatly added to. The dining room
has been partly redecorated. Later
on other changes will follow. When
it becomes necessary to remodel the
Interior of the dining room Manager
Dobbins plans to put In a temporary
dining room In what is now one of
the sample rooms, so that ,the hotel's
customers may have uninterrupted
dining room service from this time
forward.
Calif ornia Oil And
The Exposition
Noted Violinist
Is Coming Here
One thing the exposition has done
for California petroleum, It Is said
has been the correction of the mis
taken theory that good motor oil,
vuuiuii i, uu uiuvic iiviu uniiiui i. uuctv
crude.
A representative of one of the big
California refiners says that ever
since the awards of .the exposition
juries have been given wide publicity,
motorists and dealers who couldn't
see anything but eastern oil are com
ing around to using and advocating
oil made from California petroleum.
"Paraffine base oil was the first
motor oil developed," says this re
finery representative, "and even af
ter Western oil had been developed
and proved, the old tradition concern
ing paraffine base oil still clung, en
couraged, no doubt, by the refiners
of these oils. j
"And, by the way, not only the ex-j
position juries but gas engine author-
itles are now endorsing asphalt-base
motor oils."
Cupid Busier
Than the Courts
G. W. Dunn,-ex-county judge, was
in from his ranch east of the city
Thursday, and continued his Journey
to include Medford,
Australia has apparently unex
haustlble marble quarries.
Coal Is mora than $30 ton in
Rome.
The following are the county rec
ords for the year 1915 up to Decem
ber 1:
Curry county, to December 1
Marriage licenses, 25; births, boys
48, girls 21.
Douglas county Marriage licenses,
313; divorces, 26.
Jackson county Marriages, 186;
divorces, 33.
Josephine county Marriages, 71;
divorces, 13; births, boys 68, girls 90.
The county court has prepared a
list of 200 names of citizens who
may be called upon for Jury service
during 1916.
An entertainment of rare excel
lence is billed for January 15 at the
Vining Theatre, In which Axel Skov
gaard is the central figure. This
young man has gained a wide repu
tation as a violinist, owning an orig
inal Stradivarlus instrument for
which he paid a small fortune of
$13,000.
Axel Skovgaard, the noted violin
ist, Is a sterling player, an artist of
the highest rank, having masterly
control over h's instrument and a
technique which wins the admiration
of tho most skilled musicians. In
the past Skovgaard accompanied
Walter Damrosch and his famous
New York Symphony Orchestra as
solo violinist, appearing In the larger
cities of the United States and Can
I ada in Wagner's greatest work, "Par
jslfal." Music wns born In Skovgaard. As
a child of four ho fashioned his first.
"violin" out of a cigar box, and at",
the age of seven he was a child prod
iy, astonishing all by his muscal In
Fini't and his rapid development tass
a musician. His teachers found in
him the readiest pupil imaginable,
for It was only necessary to exemplify
a difficult passage once for the la
to repent It with an accuracy which
many others acquire only throtigli
years of practice. When nine years
old a leading lmpressario took this
wonderful boy on a concert tour In
cluding the largest cities In Europe.
As a mature artist Skovgaard nasi
revisited the scenes of his boyish tri
umphs, appearing In London, Paris
and Berlin, where he received flat
tering recognition. His violin Is a
famous Stradivarlus, and between
himself and the instrument there
seems to be an almost living sympa
thy. As a performer Mr. Skovgaard!
Is graceful and easy in manner, his
remarkable skill enabling him to per
form the most difficult movements
with such surprising ease that the
uninitiated do not always appreciate
his great talent.
