sriiTLi:.
Slu i on tho stt'ps nt nciilide,
. KnJo)lii the lmlmly nlr,
Ho rnmc nnd asked, uMny I sit by
jiu' sldcT
And slio (fine lilni n meant stair.
MORE EXCITKMLXT.
Last Friday nt tho Growers Ware
house excitement ran high when the
crop raised by Ray Stcrrctt on the
farm of Mr. T. D. Osborn was offered,
one basket of exceptional quality be
ing wanted' badly by Stanton Cllft for
tho Reynolds Company, Sammy Hug
gart for tho American, and J. C. Bur
wcll for tho Liggett & Myers Com
pany, each ono taking part In the bid
ding, and by leaps and bounds It
mounted to tho RECORD PRICE OP
THE SEASON, fGO.OO per cwt., Mr.
Cllft being the successful purchaser.
.HRS. (UNKINS I HAD.
Tho death angel visited tho homo of
Mr. Thomas Gnsldns of Ellsbcrry, 0.,
and took from him. his wife, Mrs.
Mollle Gsklns, after a two weeks' Ill
ness ftf pneumonia. Slio is survived
by her husband and four small chil
dren, her mother and two brothers
and ono sister, Mr. Turner Parker of
Kllsborry and Mr. Martin Parker and
Mrs. Hattlo Oryden of this city, be
sides a host of friends to mourn her
loss. But our loss Is heaven's gain.
Burial last Friday at Manchester cem
etery, services by Rev. Posey.
TOBACCO SUPERVISOR'S KEl'OItT.
Hrotlicr of Conitnunwcnllh Attorney
II, S, irannl, Died Hmlilenlr
At Ills Homo Xenr Finn
Infcsbnrg Saturday.
Harvey T. Grannls, nged 65, prom
ilnent resident of Fleming county and
! well and favorably known in this city,
died suddenly nt his homo near Flcm
Ingsburg Saturday afternoon of heart
failure.
He had been dining out and had
I Just returned to his homo when
stricken.
I Mr. Grannls had become by his in
dustry and economy, ono of tho larg
est landholders In Fleming county.
Ho is survived by his widow and
threo sons, Herbert, Krret and Dutton
and ono daughter, Mrs. Enoch Hums.
Mr. D. S. Grannls, Commonwealth
Attorney of this district, is a brother
of deceased.
AGED MAN KILLED
Special No. 5 On the C. & 0. Struck
John Hesslor, Who Was Walk
ing On tho Track Near
Bradford.
01 Good Citizens' League Effected
Sunday Afternoon At Gem The
nlcr Resolutions Adopted
Expressing Confidence
In OfilclnR
Seize Voiiiiffslown- ltrfiisnl of Steel
Mill Concern To Meet Wage lip.
mand Followed Ily Slaughter
and Arson Eight Killed
Tho market closed Friday very
strong. Throughout the week wo havo
not heard complaint from tho farm
ers and all were well pleased with
prices. There has been more tobacco
coming In this week, only the last two
days tho rain and snow checked the
hauling. We advise putting it on the
market, as wc can not look for any ad
vance. Total pounds sold this week
1,453,295 pounds at an avornge of
1X1.62.
W. MITCHELL, Supervisor.
Seven persons were injured in a
collision between a passenger train
and a freight engine on tho C. & 0.
near Ashland Saturday.
John Hcsslcr, an aged man, was
struck and instantly killed Sunday
morning west of Bradford by Special
C. & O. train NoC.
He was walking on tho westbound
track in company with his two noph
sows, ana a long frolght train was
, passing on the castbouud track and
tho threo did not hear tho wnrnlng
whistle of the fast passenger train
until It was so close that the two
younger men barely had tlrao to leap
I from tho track, they being uninjured,
out nessier was struck ana killed.
TltK M1IERTV HELL.
Residents of this citv and vlelnltv
don't havo to travel to Philadelphia tl
. see tho Liberty Bell. Wo havo ono of
our own. Tho Liberty Warehouse
Company has placed a large- Llbedty
' Boll sign In front of their warehouse
, on Commerce street, so when your ua
triotism gets on tho blink. JiiBt ko but
nnd tako a look at Col, Jones' Libqrp;
I
T. S. Davidson cut his brother,
James Davidson, so badly Saturday
morning that ho died that night. Tho
cutting occurred near their home In
Adams county, O.
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
bWfl tffith tn trtaalf nnr mutv friinite anil riitfnmirr fnr thalr lihar-il notm LU
W fwrtt jear io busiaoss, which has proven to be cossifcrablo beycoO .Braoticijfw
ithtrh m art vorv tttulrful
IIIU.H nip my 1WIJ .I WI1U I Ml.
We are bow looking forward to a greatly increased business the coming year awl w
hi unions. uiv ioi. ji aim muoi iiiijiiui.u ciUIllUEm IUI IMtiUllUg JUUI dlUCIS, fflHCU glHr
antees high grade mill work and satisfaction to all, at the best possible prices.
We are leaders in our line.
TUC UACflN IIIUDCD PflllDAMV CORNER LIMESTONE AND SECOND
MIL IIIHUUU LUII1UUI UUilM Hill STREET. PHONE 511
a. a. Mclaughlin.
L. K. IIEIlAX.
Well, Folks,
We Were Sorry You ALL
S Were Not Lucky
8 but there's another day, Washington
m Birthday. Save your Tickets.
I We have just finished our inventory,
ft and are now ready for another year, We
nave the goods to sell you, at the right
prices; our entire time and attention is
given to the selection of goods for you;
we anticipate your wants; try to make our
store attractive to you; our working force
polite aud attentive, and we cordially in
vite your patronage. We are here to do
business aud have the goods and prices.
Gnu vou find any excuse for going
elsewhere?
Let us pull logethnr for a bigger and
better Maysville.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
Don't forget that the same tickets are good for the
second drawing on Washington's Birthday. Maybe
you'll be lucky enough to get the Maxwell.
mmimmmmmmumuMmmmmmmmimmmmmmammm
Sunday altcrhoou nt tho Gem The
ater 11 largo number of tho repre
scntntlvo cltlzons of Moysvlllo met for
tho purpose of making nn organlza
(Inn that would stand behind the city
and county olTIclals In enforcing tho
I local option laws.
Air. jamcs a. uawson caned the
meeting to order nnd on motion was
named as t.mporary chairman.
Addresses woro mado by Ilev. W. H.
Campbell, Ilov. J. M. Literal nnd Mr.
Dawson, tho key-noto of each being
Hint tho citizens of Maysville and Ma
son county woro not afraid that tho
ofneora would not do their duty, but
wanted to nssuro them that every
loyal citizen would stand back of tho
olllcers In their work of enforcing the
law.
A committee composed of Messrs.
W. W. Ball, A. V. Stahl, J. D. Easton,
George W. Itoyso nnd Dlinmltt Knight
were appointed and drafted tho fol
lowing resolution which was unani
mously adopted:
"Wc, as citizens of .Mason count',
slate of Kentucky, In mass meeting as
sembled nt Maysville, Ky., this 0th
day of January, 19X6, do hereby adopt
the following:
"That wo havo noticed with great
satisfaction tho statements mado by
our olTIclals, both county nnd muni
cipal. In which they express their de
termination to enforce our present ex
isting local option laws.
"That It is our opinion that this is
an important time in the history of
our town nnd county.
"That wo feel that wo nro espec
ially fortunate in having, as adminis
trators of tho law, men whoso purposo
and plan Is to do their whole duty.
"That we hereby assure them that
we, as citizens, are back of them, and
ready to stand-with them, In tho cn
forgemont'f tho law.
"That wo hereby pledge ourselves
for any service wo can render them
In tho accomplishment of this great
work.
"And finally, that wo express our
confidence In tho ability and judgment
of our City Council to enact such ordi
nances as will bo in keeping with our
present laws, and as will promote the
best Interests of our community. And
speclOIcally, that wo endorse tho no
tion of tho City Council nt Its last
meeting, with regard to licenses nnd
flnos. GEORGE W. ItOYSE,
"Secretnry'Commlttee on Resolutions."
After tho adoption of tho resolutions
n majority of those proscnt signed
them and they will bo presented today
to tho city nnd county oirtcinls.
The organization was permanently
organized under the namo of "Tho
Maysvlllo and Macon County Good
CiUzcns League," of which Mr. James
S. Dawson was olected permanent
chnlrraan and Mr. George W. noyso
secretary.
MRS. JANEJLANCHARD
Aged MayBTllio Woman Died Sunday
Horning At Her Homo In
tho East End.
Youngstown, 0., January 8. A reign
of terror hns been prcclpltntcd In
East Youngstown by riotous stool mill
strikers.
In battles with tho privnto police at
tho mills eight persona were killed nnd
nineteen moro Injured, two of them
fatally.
Last ulght tho rioters applied the
torch freely. Ten buildings wore set
nflro and at midnight tho (Iron woro
not under control, tho loss being es
timated at over $400,000,
Not satisfied with this exhibition
of Ita fury tho mob turnod to tho busi
ness section. Part of tho mob entered
n saloon and after looting tho place
and distributing tho liquor among the
frantic forclgneru In the crowd, set
tiro to tho plncc.
Threo reglinenta of Ohio National
Guard tho Fourth, Fifth and Eighth
woro ordered by Governor 'Willis to
proceed at onco to Youngstown.
Sheriff I'mstcad who, with Brigadier
General Speaks nnd other Notional
Guard olllcers, went to East Youngs
town and was attacked by tho mob.
Red pepper Wns thrown In the sher
iff's oyes nnd ho wn3 badly beaten.
The tiro companies which attempted
t. check tho Haines In the Euut
oungstown business district, were
Leatcn off by tho mob. Many -shots
woro fired, but tho firemen got safol
bnck to Youngstown.
.Ht'KDKR TRIAL TOUAV.
Mr. Robert L. Gault, nged 85, wIiobo
critical illness hns bcon noted In Tho
Ledger, died nt his homo near Slur
physvlllo Thursday night,
Mr. Gault was ono of tho family of
that namo who havo bcon among tho
most prosperous citizens of Mason
county nnd this section of Kentucky
foi tho last fifty years, nnd his passing
nwny removes ono of this county'B be
loved and highly esteemed residents.
He is survived by ono son and ono
daughter.
Tho funeral occurred Saturday
morning nt Shannon. Burin! in tho
Shnnnon cemetery.
IT'S A IIARII LII'K.
Threo small words, "for personal
use," havo disconcerted n number of
Maysville residents. Thoso who havo
ordered "refreshments" from Cincin
nati neglected to specify tho liquor
was "for personal use," consequently
delivery from tho freight depot has
been refused. There nre about twenty
barrels of bottled beer held up.
Mcnnwhllo Maysvlllo thirsts.
Miss Jcunlo Cole Rudy of Forest
nvenue, Is visiting her brother, Mr. W.
C Rudy of Portsmouth, O.
Sweet Oranges
5 Special 20c dozen.
5 And the best New Orleans Molasses in
S Maysville at q$c per aaont
gDINGlfil, BK0S.lo7WnT"odS,rcc,
mum
Tho Woman's Guild of the Church 1 afternoon nt 3 o'clock with Mrs. John
of tho Nativity will meet Tuesday U Whitnkcr. 2t
EACH WEL-K THIS YEAR WE HAVE A
'SPECIAL SALE!
SALE MO. 1 IS
I PIPES AT y2 OFF1
Any Pipe In the House Goes at Th s Price. One Week Only 9
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY g
'llHIIHIHHIIIgllUHIIHHHHmHli
1 Mr. William Taylor of Augusta, wns Mr. T S. Langsley of Carlisle, was
iu Maysvlllo Saturday on business, 'lit this city Saturday on business.
The Home of Quality Clothes
Augusta, Ky., January 10. Paris
Hamilton, the .outh Indicted for tho
murder of Niinrod Showalter. town
marshal of Brooksvillo, on Juno 14
labt, will so to trial today at a npccln!
term of the Bracken Circuit Court.
Young Hamilton escaped at tho tlmo
of the murder, but waB purfendered to
the authorities by his father In No-!
vcmber. ,
.Maysvlllo Lodgo No. 52. F. & A. M ,
will meet tonight at 7 o'clock In reg- j
ular session. Work In SI. SI. degree, j
All members aro urged to attend th .
meeting. Visitors and members nfj
neighboring lodges am cordially In
vited to bo present. j
II. M. CLARK. V. SI. I
P. G. Smoot, Secretary.
If you have half excuse to buy a suit or overcoat you will discover in 1916 that
you made a good investment
All of our $16.50 and $18 suits at $15.
All of our $22.50 and $25 suits at $20.
All of our $18 and $20 overcoats at $15.
All of our $12.50, $13.50 and $15 overcoats at $10.
Big reductions in boys and children's suits.
THESE PRICES MEAN "CASH"
We show the biggest stock of Raincoats in the State. All bought before the
advance in price. They range from $4 up.
TD. Pi A?JGiHiI3SrC3-H?.E Sc CO.
BARGAINS FOR CHRISTMAS
SWL'KT ORANGES 16o DOZEN LEMONS 15c DOZEN t MIXUD NUTS
POUND 1 FKK8H IX CONFECTIONER'S SUGAK. LET US HAVE
yUK TUMKKY OKUEKS EAKLY.
tfXUUCL A JcCOMSAD PkoBf 13.
Mrs. Jano Blanchard, ono of Mays-
villo's aged and respected old ladles,
passed away at her homo at tho cor
ner of Second and Commerce streets,
Sunday morning nt 7:55 o'clock after
a two months' Illness, nged 90 years.
Mrs. Blanchard waB before her mar
riage, Miss Juno Tudor nnd tho most
of her long life was spent in this city,
whero alio mado many frielids.
Sho Is survived by threo children.
Mrs. Molllo Owens and Mr. Honry
nianchard of this city, and Sir. Charles
Itlauchard of Richmond, Cal.
Tho funeral arrangements havo uot
yet been completed.
8NOWIIALLEI) THE HAM).
Sunday ntternoou aftor tho mass
moetlng nt the Gem Theater, a num
ber of boys wero assembled near tho
Stophenson & Keith gnrago and pro
ceeded to snowball tho Maysvlllo band
with great vigor, causing aovernl to
retreat. Chief of Police Sluckey soon
arrived ou tho scene and secured the
names of tbo boys and told them to
appear In I'ollco Court this afternoon.
Tho practlco of throwing snowballs
at peoplo unawares is wry daugoroua
oud a young business man of tho
West 12nd almost had ono of his eyes
put out laBt week by being hit by a
hard spowball.
A fow lines would soon put a stop
to the dangeroui sport.
Children's Coats Half Price
Let every mother who wants to buy a coat in two to six year sizes, profit by this sale. These
handsome coats are worth their original price by every right of good material, good tailoring and good
fit. But regardless of cost we are closing out these smart little garments at HALF PRICE.
N
1 i
ot Many But Choice
This is unquestionably the best assemblage of up-to-the-minute dresses at the most favorable prices
ever offered in this city; an event of import nee in point of ECONOMIES. '
Silk dresses, serge dresses and silk serge combinations. Black, navy, brown and a few Burgundy
shades. Prices are now reduced twenty-five per cent.
When you see these smart dresses we are sure you will say they are prettier at their prices than
ever before.
1S5S
T-TTTTsTT?
101
Mr. E. W. Ort left Sunday for n
several days' visit to friends In Hunt
ington, W. Va.
Scioto county, O., of which Ports
mouth Is tho county sent, had 1,550
autos last year.
Sir. T. J. Currey, circulation man- SIIss .Margaret Sayrcs of Augusta, Is
nger of Tho Public Ledger, Is confined j tho charming guest of the Misses
to his homo with tho grip. 1 Downey.
A T XT1
CONTINUES ALL WtEK. COME IN AND SEE
HOW BIG A DOLLAR IS I
When Spent at Our Store. Remember, We Invoice Next Week, and It Is Much Easier
id luuiu uoiiarc man measure iamb.
3BME 3ES JHbUL S9BS jEB 3Em IP '
Mr. William Norrls and uephow otj
Houston, Tex., and Mrs. Fred Wodderj a
duufey tq attend, tbo funeral ot tlie
WW yoWph" ft. (ferVAiftr.
t
