A
THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 253.
1JA1UIK, VKHMONT, MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 1910.
MUCK, OXK CKXT.
V
GERMANS START
NEW OFFENSIVE
ON WEST FRONT
Drive Directed at Point in the French
Line North of Massiges in Cham
pagne is Said by the German War
Office to Have Been a Signal Vic
tory for the Germans
CAPTURED POSITIONS
OF HUNDREDS OF YARDS
EXPLOSION
LIFTED BOAT
And Three Men Were Killed
in the DuPont Plant at
Carney's Point, N. J.
NO SUSPICION
OF PLOT, IT IS SAID
Ferryboat Was Just Leav
ing the Dock When
, Mill Went Up
Philadelphia, Jan. 10. Throe men
were killed anil a number injured in an
explosion if smokeless powder enrly to
day in the plant of the DuPont Powder j
RAILROAD EMPLOYES
SEVERELY HURT
But Passengers Escaped with Shaking
Up When Train Was Partially
Wrecked Near Island Pond
Sunday.
. i
Island Pond, .Ian. 10. The night ex
press from Montreal for Portland, Me.,
on the Grand Trunk railway, was de
layed fivo bourn near here early Sun
day by the derailment of the engine and
tin) baggage and mail earn. The other
ears remained on the rails and all the
passengers escaped injury, although they
were shaken severely and experieneed
some discomfort from a temperature of
3."i degrees below aero.
Edward Merrill of lamiouth, Me., the
baggagemaster, and Frank Johnson of
Derby Line, a customs inspector, who
was examining baggage, were eaught
among fulling trunks when the baggage
our. wan piled up against the mail car.
fliey were seriously injured.
PROSECUTION
WILL NOT REST
Five New Haven Men on
Whom J ury Disagreed Will
Be Accused Again
MOVE FOR NEW TRIAL
WILL BE PRESENTED
ONE DEATH DURING FIRE.
By
Peabody, Mass., Fireman Struck
Falling Stnokestacjc.
reabody, Mass., Jan. 10. During a
fire thut destroyed the India goat and
One of the Men Is William
Rockefeller, Who
Is Now 111
New York, Jan. 10. When the five
former directors of the New Haven rail
road, in whose canes the jury disagreed,
Long
or
Expected Movement in France
Flanders ' Was Inaugurated To-
When Great Forces Were Sent
Into Battle and French Defending
Line Was Bent Back
day
1 L lit! JUUltt L'UHt UIIU ... . . . . .
works at Carney's Point, X. J. It hud ) ahecimkin tannery of T'.nas H O'Shea wm Uf!",n Ue lmcea 0,1 tnuI cnar8c(
been renorted that a hrn ...ni.her were '! -?,ZL ir V""?- . i.ii-? I with violation of the Sherman law, hud
, -- -- " - mni JUL, ll ! ' 1 1 1 i ii i J j ii iri n m, n iauuc - ; . ,. . i a j T .. ......
man was killed, and tt.ll.am J. Fcnne-! . L h wouIJ Jr
ey, horseman, was painfully hurt by fcL llatt v,rnmcnt c0U,18bI) mld
the fall of an iron smokestack, 100 feet t, . . . ' ,7 , . ... . . 4.'
tnh KnvArgl nritnr tliinn u-prA ma. . 1 -
MRS. CLARA M. PAPE
killed, hut after an investigation the
superintendent placed the number of
known dead at three.
The cause of the explosion is unknown,
but according to the superintendent ,ni,li-d by smoke and falling debris. The
Those acquitted were 1). Newton Bar-
there is no suspicion that the blast was joi, is "estimated at $200,000.
due to outside agencies. A report tiiai
, ney, Farmington, Conn.; Robert W.Taft,
' Ur. u 1 . i ......... u iinn,;.,.n ..
The fire was in a danucrou place in . .. . ... . . ;,'
arrests had been made was denied. The tho f.,r f ,i,B ,.,,,, riq.trU. but "eaion Kooertson ana freuericK .
force of the explosion Avas so trreat that !.,,;ii.. its.,,..,,.,. w.,r ..v.,1 it.h th "re water, JSew Haven, a-nfl tienry Jv. Ale-
it lifted a ferryboat just leaving the ai( of R" ratn!, from Lynn, Salem and
Berlin, Jan. 10. An offensive movement has been inaugurated
by the German forces in Champagne. Announcement was made
by the war office to-day that French positions extending over sev
eral hundred yards, at a point northwest of Massiges, have been
captured by the Germans.
The conquered positions are near Maisons de Champagne. The
Germans captured 423. prisoners, including seven officers, five
machine guns and one large and seven small mine throwers.
French counter-attacks made to the east of the positions taken
by the Germans failed.
AGerman aircraft division attacked rearguard establishments
of trie allies at Furnes.
On the east front, an advance attempted by a strong Russian
detachment at Belestiany was repulsed.
,1.,. .1- at fa 1.,;.,( nf r,l '
the water, breaking all the windows and
smashing part of the cabin. None of
the passengers was injured.
BIG BATTLESHIP
STRUCK A MINE
AND WENT DOWN
British Pre-dreadnought King Edward
VII Ran Afoul of Sea Weapon and
Had to Be Abandoned Because
of Storm All the Crew
Taken Off.
London, Jan. 10. The British battle-
T l .. i . i. i .1 :
Dan vers. The three large wooden build-"""", v" "'. v-,t .
ii-. i.. .o i....!,i ere Rockefeller, Xew ork;
" ,' i " , Charles F. Brooker, Ansonia, Conn.;
Two of these structures were nine stor- ,.,,..,. , , ' . n '
. .... , ., . . I narlcs M. Pratt, Brooklyn; Louis Cass
les in height, and the other was of four,, ... . . ...
i , , , . i , , -, 1 iaui.iui . mil,, u 11 a. u n ni ii 4 iiv u
stories. Onlp tlie omen liiiiltlitirr. a one. i. '
Passed Away Saturday Evening After
Long Illness.
frs. Clara M. I'apo passed away nt
her home on Merchant street on Satur
day evening about 8 o'clock, after a long
period of ill health. Mjs. Tape was born
in Lowell, this state, in May, lS.'l.'i. Her
marriage to 1-eonard W, I'apo occurred
in November, 1871.
Four children were born to them. Of
these a daughter, Margaret W., died in
1H87, and another daughter, Myrtio A.,
died in 1H07. lfer husband died in l!nn.
A son, (i. Herbert l'ape, and a daughter.
Alice A. Pape, resided with her at the
timo of her death. x
Mrs. Pape had been a member of the
Barro Congregational church for many
year and after failing health would
not permit of her attending services, she
yet took a deep interest in her church,
and was a member of the home depart
ment of the Sunday school.
Mrs, raiio had been a resident of Barre
nearly 23 years and by her kindly dis
position she had made a large circle of
friends. A kind and, devoted wife and
mother, a pleasant and helpful neighbor
and friend, the death of Mrs.' Pape will
be mourned by a large number of peo
ple, all of whom can say that the world
was maile brighter and better by her
having lived in it.
The funeral will be held from her
home,- C(l Merchant street, Tuesday
afternoon at .2:30 o clock, with Rev.
J. V. Burnett officiating.
DOESN'T WANT
WIFE'S BODY
But Luigi Lungo Telegraphs
to Send His Household
Goods to Calif orr' ,
FUNERALS
BE Otix
JDAY
The Friends of Antonio Caffi
Think He Shot in a
Moment of Rage
NATIVE OF WILLIAMST0WN.
Mrs. Dana Taylor Died in Washington
Sunday Afternoon.
Mrs. Dunn Tavlor passed awav at her
home in Washington .Sunday afternoon , interment will be made in the Catholic
at 12:13 o'clock. She was born in Wil-1 eemeterv on Becklev street. AtSo'cIoek
liamstown 79 years ago, but had resided . the funeral of Caffi will be held in tlio
A murderer-suicide and his victim will
be interred within an hour of each other
to-morrow when funeral services for An
tonio Caffi of 44 Circle street and the
woman he shot in a fit of jealous rage,
Mrs. Ltiigi Lungo, will be held. The re
mains of Mrs. Lungo will be taken from
the Perry & Nonnan undertaking estab
lishment on Depot square to St. Mon
ica's church For services at 2 o'clock.
Rev. P. M. McKenna. the parish priest,
will officiate and afterward the body
will be taken to the receiving vault at
Elmwood to repose until spring, when
n Washington most of her life. She
was married April 30, 18."!t. Besides her
husband she leaves the following chil
dren: Mrs. Lucia L. Hill of Cabot, Mrs.
Curtis Holt of Plainfield. Herbert 1)
TL .mplMM men and Uilt&yfVnt' ""'Taylor of Marshfleld. Elmer T). Taylor,
- ' ; , , , rrY. Hiiiuix-nic wits iiul urciut:u, y mmm
a capamy o. a. uay. Ickefullr was the only one whose term
flames started in the boiler room of tlie f ag y f
krger stmctures and spread swiftly, I j d throl hout th- tin time of the
threatening to sweep the manufacturing . aI, . . 8ntodated
George I"). Taylor and Edward F. Taylor,
who reside at the Taylor home in unsh-
Perrv & Xoonan chapel. His remains
will be interred in Hope cemetery.
Following the tragedy at Mrs. fjmgo's
home, lfl Third street, Friday night, the
authorities made a successful effort to
locate the woman's husband in Ray
mond, Cnl. His reply was a telegram,
which came yesterday, anvismg the an-
FRENCH ADMIT LOSS OF TRENCHES
SOUTH OF HARTMANNS-WEILERKOPF
'Paris, via London, Jan. 10. The French troops have withdrawn
form the summit of Hirzstein, south of Hartmanns-Weilerkopf.
This admission is made by the communication issued by the war
office. The withdrawal was due to the capture by the Germans of
a hill north of Hirzstein.
district.
Kerwin and Fennelev, jivere in an al-
crashed on to the roof over their heads , . .. . , A .. .. ,
v , T. , VI t-nCT nwtft VI tilt? 1HIBLUU UIIU aIIUIIIU ill
and rol ed down on them, Kerwin s v . ... . ,
, ,, , . TT - - . J!K)(. hdward V. Kobbins was general
skull was cmshed. He was 33 years .. - tI,. .., ., .,,,
old and lcftvos a widow and two small w ... ,;, Bi
It i . . . i ivu u nic i ui ii la null VI uuiu-
dow winch oausod a deop ptish m bis ( , ..
shin K nif Edward Vll has Iwen sunk head. His injuries ar,? not expected to . .,,,., , .
Charles Brooker by three years. Messrs.
Ledyard nd Iratt took part in the
EVACUATORS OF GALLIPOLI SAID
TO HAVE LOST A TRANSPORT
Berlin, by wireless, Jan. 10. The sinking of a transport ship of
the allies filled with troops, at the time of the withdrawal of the
French and British forces from the tip of the Gallipoli peninsula,
was reported in Constantinople despatches given out to-day by the
Overseas agency.
as the result of striking a mine. The
entire crew was saved.
The sinking of the battleship was an
nounced by 'the admiralty in tlie follow
ing statement:
"H. M. S. King Edward VII has struck
a mine. Owing to the heavy sea she
had to be abandoned and sank shortly
afterwards. The ship's company was
taken off without h of Jife. Only two
men were injured."
The King Edward Vll was a battle
ship of lfi,330 tons, laid down in March
1902. She was 4.53 feet long, 78 feet
beam and 20 feet draught. She had four
12-meh, four 9.2 inch and ten 6-inch
guns in her mam battery and was
prove serious.
MRS. MOHR ARRAIGNED
WITH TWO NEGROES
IN MURDER CASE
She, as Well as the Others, Pleaded Not
Guilty to KiHiBg iler Husband, Dr. C.
Franklin Mohr, Last Summer
Selection of Jury Started.
Providence, B. I., Jan. 10. Mrs. Eliz
abeth F. Mohr, aceuned of having incited
t three negroes to murder her husband. Dr.
equipped with four torpedo tul-s aub- V- !nKf!n 31Ti.a P"J-'" '
,..,-i.,.i tin- l, ,;! ., .. m this city and Newport, was placed on
19 knot's. She had a eomole.nent of 777 , ri" ! court to-day. Mrs. Mohr
The King Edward Vf represented an
is being tru'd jointly with Cecil Victor
Brown and Henry Spellman, who are
charged with the actual commission of
THE TURKS ARE IN RETREAT
AFTER DEFEAT IN MESOPOTAMIA
London, Jan. 10. The Turks in Mesopotamia' were in full retreat
on Jan. 9, with the British pursuing them, it was announced in
the House of Commons to-day by J. Austen Chamberlain, secretary
for India. There had been heavy fighting on both banks of the
Tigris river on Jan. 7. Chamberlain's announcement states that
the British had taken two Turkish guns and 700 prisoners.
New British Commander in Mesopotamia .
Sir Percy Lake has been appointed to command the British
forces in Mesopotamia, in succession to General Sir John Eccles
. Nixon, who has been compelled by ill health to return home, it was
announced in the House of Commons to-day.
Berlin, by wireless, Jan. 10. The British army at Ku-El-Amara
in Mesopotamia has now been surrounded by Turks, according to
Constantinople advices given out to-day by the Overseas news
agency. It is said that the Turks have advanced to the main de
fenses of the British army in Mesopotamia, and the army is in
retreat, 10,000 men having been left in Kut-El-Amara
ALL THE ALLIES QUIT
GALLIPOLI LAND
:., .if . I i mm turn i . 1 LI1
- r ; .i Vf 1 the crime, while the doctor and his seere-
and was one of the. finest of the last tsry, Misi Emily C. Burger, were motor-
class of pre dreadnoughts, corresponding , jn BarrinpJn on th nJ ht of Augm
in general to the American ships of the 31 ,a()t. MrgMohr was indicted as an
New Jersey and Nebraska type, and Qau,r w,ir fh tnt a 41,; .
was only slightly older than the Katal, ! w Hoalig rP-Cpntlr pl(1(I(,d
...i. una .nun kij n, ,i, 1,1. 1 it,, 1 CAj'iu.iuu
about a week ago.
ASK ENGLAND TO SAVE POLES.
guilty to manslaughter and was expected
to be a state witness.
The three defendants, when arraigned.
pleaded not guilty a few n. unites before
10 o'clock, and the selection of
then begun.
BERNSTORFF MEETS
SECRETARY LANSING
The Peninsula Evacuated Without Cas
ualty Except One Wounded Brit
isher and 17 Old1 Cannons
Were Blown Up By the
Retreating Army.
London, Jan. 10. (ieneral Sir Charles
Monro, according to the olhcml state
uient, reports that only one British sol
a dispatch from
single man re-
with great losses, says
Constantinople. Xot a
mained behimL
The dispatch adds that newspaper re
ports from the- Dardanelles say the
Turkish troops have completely driven
the French and British from Seddul
Bahr, and that Gallipoli peninsula "is
now clear of the eneinv."
dier was wounded in the evacua
With the withdrawal of the British
and French soldiers from the southern
tip of the ;allinli peninmila following
the evacuation of the Anrac and Suvla
bay positions oti the We-tern eoat in
tion of -"" mi,hlle of December there has come
to an end a movement which was begun
un ex-, ration of achievement which
would have a great bearing on the out
come of the war.
, Thousands upon thouwinU of men
,lot their lives in the rnterprioe of ef
fecting: landintr on the Turkish cnt
'and in the figftmsr that has been in
that ronu.lrte evaeuat ion of tlliooli ' 'T. niinilw ol
! been successful carried out. ttle.!np, and small.r war er.tt of the
riiiruir .iii. mir imn auric or dam
the Gallipoli Mtiinsula, tliat there were
no eamiaities among the rreiicti, ami
that all the guns were saved, eicej.t
seventeen worn out onea which were
blown up.
The oflirial communication ii-stied Ust
nening says:
"Oner.il Sir Charles Monro reports
Early Settlement of th4 msitania Con
troversy Is Intimated as the Two
Went into Conference To-day,
Washington. I). - C, Jan. 10. Count
Von Bemstorff had an engagement with
Secretary f State Lansing to-day, and
it .was indicated that a final settlement
of the Lusitania eontorvcrsy is close at
hand.
Chicago People Seek to Lift Blockade
Partially.
Chicago, Jan. 10. A cablegram urging
Great Britain to lift the bockade suffi
ciently to admit suppies to the destitute
of Poland, was put on the wire her
last night, addressed to Prime Minister
Asquith.
A telegram also was sent to President
Wilson, quoting the diitpateh to Mr. As
quith, and to the British, German,
French, Italian, Bussian and Austro
Hiingarian embassies at Washington.
The eonununi'Mtion to Mr. Asquith said
in part:
'"The undersigned, representing four
million Polish-speaking residents of the
L'nited States, hereby most respectfully
present an unanimous request to his
majesty's government that the block
ade against shins carrying provisions
and clothing and destined for tho war-
stricken districts of I'ohiiid be raised and
vessel' carrying such cargo be pemitted
to discharge them at the harbor of Dan
zig or some other si: it i hie port, for
distribution among inhabitants of that
part of Toland devastated ty war.
"Out of the stricken district two Hind,
a half mill men have lieen e ille 1 to !
fight for the allies' cause. Over 1,200 j was escaping from a tube attached to a
soldiers of purest Poli-h blood have been P tv from T,,e coroner's
killed or wounded and now their familcs theory is that both men had dosed off
are without food or shelter suffoiinsr .v r"r' l,lr ll,e K"s
more than anv nthpr v M ma nf 1 i : Move nan oecoiiir uijiniiiin u-u ana iiihi
suiting in the transfer of the steamships
Harvard and Yale to the Pacific coast.
The other directors were little men
tioned in the evidence, end their chief
defense was that they depeuded upon the
advice of Charles S. Mellen or Kobbins
in the acts charged against them, which
virtually consisted of casting their votes
in favor of propositions which came be
fore the board ef directors for approval.
The defendant ware indktcd on Feb.
20, 1015. The trial began October 13, It
is estimated that it entailed an expense
to the government and defendants of
three-quarters of a million dollars.
The verdict was returned at 4 o clock
yesterday afternoon after 51 hours of
deliberation and the jury waa discjtrged.
llie nnal vote on the tive uetendants
upoji whom the jurors could not agree
stood 8 to 4 for acquittal. R. L. Batts,
chief council for the government an
nounced that in due time he would move
for a new trial of these five. This will
be done he said before any effort will
be made to try the six other former
directors of the road who were .indicted,
but who obtained the right to be tried
separately. j
Tlie jurors did not reach their verdict
until after they had reported to Judge
Hunt earlier in the day that they could
not agree. Vp to that time noon they
jury was (had been deliberating with a view to
oringing in a verdict on the guilt or in
nocense of the defendants collectively.
The court then instructed them to make
further efforts to concur and that if
they could not agree upon all, to try and
reach a decision on some. The vote on
the question of all at that time also
stood 8 to 4 for acquittal, it was learned.
On returning to the jury room the
ington. A grandson. George Hill, lives ; thorities to pack the household goods
in Cabot. A son, Wilbur laylor. niea at lf I Inrrt street and ship them to him.
at the age of four years. MrsJ Taylor i Friends of Mrs. Lungo came forward
was held in hich esteem by many peo-I yesterday and offered to defray her fu-'
pie in Washington and surrounding neral expenses. Gattaro, the boarder
towns. She was a regular attendant at
the Methodist church.
Funeral services will be held at the
house Wednesday afternoon at 1 o'clock,
Reu. James Ramage, pastor of the East
Barre Congregational church, officiating.
Interment will be made in the village
cemetery.
DEATH FROM PNEUMONIA.
Charles Matott Died Saturday After
noonFuneral Wednesday.
.Charles Matott. an emplove of the city
street department, passed away at his j le nom(, 0f j)
home, 112 Brooklvn street, baturday
aftw-noon t 4:30 o'clock, the end fol
lowing a two weeks illness of pneu
monia. Mr. Matott is survived by his
wife and seven children, jAmps Matott,
Eunice Matott, Amsey Matott, Bert Ma
tott, Clifford Matott. Emma Matott and
Mary Matott. He also leaves four sis
ters and four brothers, as follows: Mrs.
Margaret Macquet. Mrs. Ethel Carden
and Mrs. Ella Suprenault of Champlain,
X. V., Mrs. Elsie Casava of Chazy, X. Y.,
Henry, Chauncy and Benjamin Matott
of Chazy and Joseph Matott of Cham-plain.
Tlie deceased was born m Chnmpiam,
X. Y.; Sept. 13, 1861. Twenty-six years
ago he was married in Champlain to
Mrs. Lucy Lucia. The family moved to
Barre in 100!) and shortly afterward Mr.
Matott entered the employ of the citv.
Funeral services will be held in St.
Monica's church Wednesday morning at
0 oelock, Rev. P. M. McKenna, the pas
tor, officiating. The body will be placed
in the vault at Elmwood until spring,
when interment will be made in the
Catholic cemetery on Beckley street.
DIVORCE SUIT CONTESTED.
Canning vs. Canning Has Been to Su
' preme Court Twice. .
who witnessed the beginning of the
tragedy, has vacated the house and says
he doesn't care to linger about the prem
ises after the affair of Friday night.
Yesterday the police visited the Lungo
apartments and procured clothing for
the woninn.
Caffi was a member of the granite
cutters' union. A sizeable sum of mon
ey was found in his clothes, but for
some time his friends were unable to
find the key to his trunk. The missing
key, however, was found at last in a,
small wallet which lie, wore in his waist
coat. Caffi boarded and had his room at
I me nome ot js. roui. ,s soon as tney
heard of his deed, the Tolhs set about
to search for a note which they thought
he might have left. Their search was
fruitless. His clothing was neatly ar
ranged hi his trunk, but there was "noth
ing about his room to indicate that ho
contemplated shooting Ms. Luno or
himself.
Intimate friends of Caffi are loath to
believe that his act was deliberate. They
arc sure he would have left a message
for them if he had gone from Circle
street to Lungo's Friday for the express
purpose of killing the woman and him
self. Rather, his friends sny, Mrs. Lun
go s decision wrought such a change m
Caffi that he was no longer himself and
the shooting was prompted by the
workings of a mind no longer respon
sible. Sympathy among people of the Italian
colony who knew either Mrs. Lungo or
Caffi seems to lie divided, but expres-
sions of commiseration for the woman's
husband are very general.
MANY MINISTERS MINGLED
In Conference of Their Monday Club in
' Barre To-day.
Sixteen members of the Ministers
Monday club met in the Bnraea room at
GAS WAS ESCAPING
In
Room Where Man and Son Were
Found at Troy, N. Y.
Troy, X. Y, Jan. 10. Charles Chap
riia iXarra I "nnnriirra f iadh 1 ulinxnt. I,i
A nnntntii Ad HivnrnA suit. f.liH first, to i e i t , . - .
jurors renewed their discussion with the , "tried at this term of court James ' Iore"""n a " ir iiieir regular
eonrfa Inatnwt i..n in min.i .ml ..naniJ . ,U . TO . Jamt? monthly gathering, ror tlie first time
mouslv eliminated the six defendanta ' V,n,,,,'f. V8, M V"""1' "nmem,tt : in several months, the secretary. Rev,
who wero aiw'itted Two of thefour I a lf.rnoon,. '." Frank Blomtield -of Berlin, was 'unable
. were aiquiuea. two ot the lour Tlie r,.t,tioner is represented by ito be proS(.Ilt. i?pv Verne L Smith of
jurors, who had voted against the de-1 ittnrneva Center and Laird and the de- ii- i , , 1 mnn or
,.i.. n.. ...i i Attornejs r-enur aim iiru aim me ut aterburv read an interesting paner en-
fendants originally, stood firm, however,
against Messrs. Rockefeller, Ledyard,
Brooker, Pratt and Bobbins. Then the
other two switched to their original po
sition, leaving 8 to 4 as 'the final ver-
a, , . , . 1915 ordered the decree for the peti
from tne lime me case was submitted tioner versed, pro forma, and the cause
w hmi i I.. iwi n..my "'i"' remanded for hearing.
of
nf naner pn.
fendant by Theriault &, Hunt. I titled. "The fltiumte Alnral 'rit..rinn '
The cae was first heard in county j whjeh WHg followed bv a general dis
court in 1013 and since that time has;russjon to which nearlv every clergyman
been twice taken to supreme court. Chief : present contributed bis views on" the
Justice Munson at the February term , topic. After the meeting the visitinsr
ministers were entertained at dinner by
tne liarre clergy.
noon, the jurors took in all eighteen
ballots. The first stood six to ix for
Saturday the Wright Manufacturing I
man and his son. William B. Chapman, ac(1iltali four for convi(.tlon ,, two
The following ministers were riresent:
Rev. C. If. Chapin of Marshfield. Rev.
a civil engineer, were found dead at their
home in the residential section of the
city yesterday under circumstances that
were unusual. The son sat near a kitch
en range with his feet in the oven and
his father's head was in his lap. Gas
an explosion occurred which caused the
light to be extinguibhed.
. Apparently, however, there had been
no fire in the room. The junior Chap
man was .1 recent graduate of theRens
selaer Polytechnh- institute and was
prominent in social and National Guard
circles.
another Turkish invasion of Hpypt and i
the permanent safetv of the Suez canal
and England's communications with In
dia.
In October after the siKvexsful inva
sion of Serbia by the Teutons and the
Bulgars and the reports that German
ammunition was on its way to Turkey
storm of bitter criticism of the gov
ernment's Dardanelles ampin broke
loose in England. Sir Edward Caron,
attorney general, and Winston Chureb-
II. tirt lord of the admiraltv. the prin
cipal tarcet of attack, resiirned. Church
ill placed some of the blame on tlie 1
shoulders ot Admiral lr.l t mher. hr-t ?jnw, f the east, havinc bwn pro mi
sea lord. I Here was al. a complete , re- ntlv identified in t A orrter and
organization of the French cabinet. Brockton, Mass., Dmrr, X. If., and other
I ihiiiik m ncri io iorc ch- Ver Knuhind cit es.
eo-opcrat in of I
HURLED FROM MOTORCYCLE.
S. Foster Jacques Was Killed at Bing
hamton, N. Y.
Einghamfon, X. Y, Jan. 10 City En
gineer S. Foster Jacques was kiliod
when he was thrown fnm his motor-
cv le.
He was bigl.lr rated nmnni the en-
blank. It was not until Saturday that
they reached the eight to four align
ment. William Rockefeller, who is ill, and
Henry K. Mrllarg, were not present
when the jurors, haggard and untidy,
filed in the courtroom to render their
verdict. The nine other defendants were
in their .usual seats. Some of them,'
during the long hours of waiting had
laughed and joked with counsel and
newspaper men. Others had evidenced j
much nervousness, particularly after j
company-Eastern Fruit and Xut Orchard , ,T. E! Taylor of Montpelier, Rev. A.
company case was completed alter turee
days' trial, decision being reversed.
FUNERAL OF J. R. HALSALL
Held Saturday Afternoon and Interment
Was in Hope Cemetery.
Funeral services for J. Richard Hal
sall, a veteran of the British army and
for many years an employe of Marr A
Gordon, whose death occurred Wednes
day evening, were held at his home, 131
North Seminarv street, Saturdav after-
T. . 1 II . : . .: i i i
K A T ."mciion. yea eruay noon t 2 oVloi.k nv K(, CroUnd,
urging the Jury to bring in a verdict as tor of t)l(, Firgt rreshvt(tli!,n r,,lirolli
to some individually, ith the entrance offi(.i(lti rvieations from the lump-
o. xne jurymen, w.m u.eir nats and j e. unio m, f;ranit, (it v nn
coats in hand, presaging a verdict, the
mental state of the defendants was ob
viouslv one of tense strain.
VERMONT POSTMASTERS.
Dardanelles without the
"All the guns and howitwrs were gut
way, with the exemption of seiit-o
worn out guna which were blown up by i
U brft-re leaving.
"tKir cai!ia!tif amounted to one mem
lr of the I -r it ,h rank and lie wound-rl."
Amsterdam, via Ix-rxUn, Jan. 1". The
l'r't i a a reault of a Kim 1 1 r
land forces ta generally conceded to
have hefn the big initial blunder of the j
campaign. The inadequacy of tlie land j
for-- ln they mere sent wis rriti- I
cised as another. j
Atsibvists for tlie government pointe.1 i
to the fat that at least a larpe Turkish
armv had been ireventel from operat- !
TO FIGHT YAQUIS.
aged as they j.ir,.t rjn f hrji
against the Turkish fortifications in an
en-Uavor to ai l their forces on shore.
The rhiff military purpose of the Dar
danelles campaign. ih was iK-pnn in
February. 1S1".. with tl bnmUrlment
i r.isii mrrs ai li e entrance to the i injr e!w here. partu nUrlv in F.? j.t and ! Washirj: :tn atr.Iay t't -neral l),e
straits by ent.nt- a'bed warships. wasltHe ( anmsas. Tlwr argn.nl. al. t'.at.'giiei had .!!.- t-l il it troop. f.)r a
i-w rapiur oi s .snstant nplei and the tlie BaiVan situation n:stt bae d. vel-i ,-n pa:i-n acamst Indiana in tis Yanni
General Dieguer Collects Big Army for
Indian Campaign.
Washington. Jan. 10. Admiral Wins
low, commanding l'nited Mates naval
forces off the M ican cat. rerwirted to
John H. Donnelly Appointed for Ver
gennes, Asa C Oakes for Stowe.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 10. president
Wilson has sent to the Senate the fol- j
iiiMiiins nuns ii ernioni iiost- I
i
M. W
of A., to which the deceased lielonged.
were among those in attendance and
there were several fine floral tributes.
The bearers were: S. R. Terry. John
Rowley, George Riddel and William
Smith. The remains were placed in the
reeeiving vault at Elmwood, w here they
will repose until spring, when inter
ment is to be made in Hope cemetery.
Piani of Barre, Rev. A. A. Mandigo of
Morctown, Rev. E. Crossland, Rev. G. H.
Holt and Irofesor O. K. Ifollister of
Barre, Rev. John Irons of Williams
town. Rev. Lewis Carson and Rev. L. O.
Sherburne of Montpelier, Rev. Mr. Smith
of Waterbury, Rev. Ivan Benedict of
Montpelier, Kev. C. AI. Redstone of
Waitstield, Rev. Mr. Sweet of Montpe
lier, Rev. J. W. Barnett of Barre.
The next meeting of the club will be
held at Montpelier seminary on the
morning of Monday, Feb. 7.
PAID MORE THAN HALF.
FUNERAL AT ST. MONICA'S.
That of Mrs. Catherine Ryan Was Held
Sunday Afternoon.
nrs-ninsr rf tKe It..,,,.. fi,r Frig
lave crirrdet'j tcaati Se-IJul l shr, 'Unl a r meant
tie
red tr,!-!ii sooner l.a 1 tlie
(irtTectnm of U-en mada wlen it was.
pan pairn
efforl sjvt !. Tle jorr be nude tdl
lrer, be Ulcgrai'hf-d,
low ing
masters:
Jolin H. Donnelly to be postmatr at)
ergennes. in place of Thomas Mack.
Incumbent's commission expired Jan.
D'lfi.
Asa r. kes to be po-tnatr at
St" e, in place of AIh.-rt If. tlieney. Ut ret. Friday morninff
Inciimb-nC commission expires Jan. H,'ne. wa held at M.
The funeral of Mrs. Ctlierine Ryan,
who iwis-d away at the home of her
JdaueMer. Mrs. Frank Rism.-v. H Ijiiir.l
after a Ung ill-Moni'-a'a
rhurrli
C. F. Eddy Bankrupt Estate Pans Out
WelL
In liankrnptey court at Montpelier to
day a final dividend of 24 and eight
tenths was declared in the case of C. F.
Eddy, the well known erwamery opera
tor. Prior to this two dividends had
lieen declared, of 1.1 rents each, so that
the totll dividend of the estate is i4
and eight tenths, which is about 14 cents
larger than ws exieetsl when tlie case
was entered in bankruptcy court. Cheeks
are Is-ina: made out and thrv will l
mailed to the several hundred creditors
during the middle of the week.
FUNERAL OF JOHN GLINNEY
i'Jii. ;undar aiiern"n i s o.nsk, the
John I Welsh to be posiniai-tr at Mir. Iv. P. M. Mi Kenna. officiating,
Pro, tor in place of (liarlss f;. Ifolden. Tl re was a large gathering of friends
ln-irnint' commission expired IT. 12. . 'and there were many fine iVral t-bit-s.
1?.". I The Is-arers were: t.v V. Ijin ler, I
Tne Senate has confirmed the follow-' -tunics I l:i I. .lo'-n R. T ernfr. Jamesj
ma" 1 frmnt posi master a j.fsunt m-nt : ' Ken. kbmim rtr" ! ar I ,li hn ,
Herbert . I.xb. (Irf-Jsea. iVa'ksr. Int. rm. iit a w h- in t ,vf-ial t!it tc .f jnt.-n Vint
Jl,a J. Lcth, Mii;hta Sr-ricj-t, latlwlic cf!iit-ry c-n Lckiey street, at 9 u'dxk. f"r ra(tice
Held at St. Augustine's Church in Mont
pelier. The funeral i( John Glinney, a lung
time rnbrit of MtMitN-!ier. was lu'll
frmn St. AutT't inc'a chtinh in that citv
tis nx.riiini'. Rev. P. .1. Ix.f r.f .elating,
lie Nar.rs en- Julin I'd ward
Kran. P. K, i ..mwlty and John MrMh..ii.
! tit i m.ut va in t ite ( at!ndiC ocrn-trr.
t-
