f ^ ^ ^ . ^ * . } I
f ! LOOK FOR ThT^ ttU* Of* S5ctw^ iSaS:^ ?
I PLANOGRAVURE i I W IT NfiD I I I Aw I I I j\ I hours "endlni r 11 o'clock laat nights
'?<sfrtt'on? ' mKs III III rl I I - I CI I ^^rrt>y;low
| Pull report on page 3. ^
No. 591?No. 20.381. WASHINGTON, D.'C., SUNDAY MORNING, JULY 16, 1916* * FIVE CENTS.
SENATE DEMOCRATS
AGREEMOGRAM
i. Decide That the Session Shall
^ End, If Possible, on
^ August 20.
REPUBLICANS PROMISE
TO OFFER NO OBSTACLES
Child Labor and Immigration Bills
Likely to Go Over Until the
Next Session.
i
August 20 was the date set as the
outside limit for the continuance of the
) present session of Congress in a tentative
agreement by the Senate democrats
In caucus last night. The caucus had
Ibeen called together to give further
consideration to the legislative program
for the remainder of the session,
with a view particularly to bringing
the session to an early close.
By unanimous vote the caucus adoptjb
ed a resolution directing the democratf
. 1c steering committee of the Senate
to prepare a program and to include in
f* it as most urgent and demanding first
consideration the following measures:
Appropriation bills, government ship
purchase bill, revenue bill, workmen's
compensation bill, corrupt practices
bill, Philippine bill, civil war and Spanish
war pension bills and a bill to enlarge
the interstate commerce commission.
May Get Away August 19.
As for the pending federal child labor
bill and the immigration bill, the
caucus directed that if it appears to be i
Impossible to dispose of those measures
by August 20, an attempt be made to
reach some kind of an agreement with
the republicans whereby they can be
voted upon next December. August 20
tells on Sunday, and it is the plan of
etlJk H^mncpato tr? malro tVioir o-Atora ov
by Saturday, August 19, if possible.
The decision of the democrats to hurry
along adjournment is of interest, but
much depends upon the attitude of the
republicans of the Senate. The latter,
through their leaders, have said that
they do not intend to filibuster against
^ the measures which the democrats offer
W for consideration. But many of the republicans
are insisting they be given
opportunity to discuss fully the measures
which are to come up for consideration.
There is no rule which can be
fanebti to siop discussion and bring a
vote in the Senate, and from past records
when republican senators have insisted
upon discussing fully the bills
Up fgr consideration it appears that
the Senate majority may find considerable
difficulty in bringing the session
to a close by August 20, which is only
Ave weeks away.
That the republicans will seize upon
the failure of the democrats to include
the child labor bill in their program
for this session and will make the most
of it in the coming campaign seems
probable. Many of the democratic senators
are anxious to have the bill
passed, but a number of the southern
democrats are strongly opposed to the
measure, and if it was taken up the
majority might discover that some of
its own members were filibustering instead
of the republicans.
HOUSE RESTS ON OARS
Nolan "Three-Dollar-a-Day" Bill
Order of Business Tomorrow,
Then Three-Day Adjournments.
fe
The Nolan "three-dollar-a-day" bill is
expected to be the order of business for
m the House of Represent a tivs tomorrow,
and after that measure, of so great inter
Iest co government employes, has been disposed
of, the House plans to rest on its
oars by adjoining for three days at a
time.
The Nolan measure, written by a San |
Francisco representative, has created a
great stir in the army of Uncle Sam's j
workers, as it provides that about 99 per !
cent of the federal employes' force shall
be paid at a rate not lower than $3 a day.
The remnant not provided for are scattered
here and there, temporary workers,
short day -workers, etc. It was suggested
first by San Francisco post office employes.
and representatives of that distant
city have been in Washington off and
oo for over a year in the interest of the
measure.
The hearings on the bill brought forth
many pitiful stories of government employes
who had left private employment
In the belief that they would do better under
the government. Many of them testified
to having worked practically their entire
life for the United States without a
dollar raise during the entire period One
of the strongest arguments made for the
bill during the hearings was the presentation
of figures from the bureau of labor
statistics showing the increased cost of
living in the past twenty-five years.
FOUR WAR VESSELS SUNK
BY U BOATS, SAYS BERLIN
BI^RLIN, July 15, by wireless to Sayvllie.?The
admiralty announced today
that on July 11 German submarines
sank a British auxiliary cruiser and
three patrol boats.
The announcement follows:
"On July 11 a German submarine de
Istroyed in th? North s?a a British auxiliary
cruis?r of about 7.000 tons.
"On the same day German submarines
off the British coast sank three British
patrol boats. The crews were captured
afterward and one cannon was
taken."
MAYFLOWER OUTSIDE CAFES.
President and Party on Yacht Make
Long Week-End Cruise.
OLD POINT COMFORT. Va , July 15
?The naval yacht Mayflower, with the
President, Mra. Wllaon and a party ot
ralatlvea on a week-end trip from
Waabington. wae cruising today outside
the Virginia capea. The vessel
did not come into Hampton roads The
Mayflower anchored late laat night in
^ Tangier sound, halt way up Chesapeake
^ hay. leaving early this morning.
WHOLE OF JERSEY
nrrrv 111 nni ixiru
lILLr 111 lUUIlUv
Rivalry in the Parties for th<
Senatorial and Gubernatorial
Nominations.
REPUBLICANS COUNT ON
PROGRESSIVE SUPPOR"
Combined Vote of the Two Organi
___zations Summed Up?Senator
Martine Facing Trouble.
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
NEWARK, N. J.. July 15.?All of Jei
sey, democrats, republicans and pre
gressives, are bestirring themselve
over the coming primaries for th
selection of candidates for big office
in the fall elections. Rival candidate
for governor, United States senator an
representatives in Congress are to b
chosen, and the aspirants are bus
wire-pulling and pipe-laying for th
grand show-down September 19.
New Jersey is to be one of the bi
battle grounds in the national electio
this year, and both the big parties wil
strain every nerve to carry the stat<
It is especially important to the re
publicans as being one of the grou
of states in which the G. O. P. hope t
win a senator, in their effort to centre
the upper body in the next Congress.
In that undertaking they realize tha
everything will depend upon the vol
of the progressives, and whether, whei
it comes to the final test at the polls, ;
sufficient number of the bull moos
hold out in revolt to throw thp elec
tion to the democrats. In 1912 th
combined vote of regular republican
and progressives was 234,245, agains
178,289 democratic. The margin of dif
ference constitutes the present hop
of the republicans.
Progressive Vote Important.
' As Roosevelt received 145,410 votei
tp Taft's 88,835, it is seen how im
| portant is the strength of the pro
gressives. It is true that the colone
has called upon his followers to rail:
to the republican standard, but, lik*
the gentleman who "could eummoi
spirits from the vasty deep," the ques
tion is, "Will they come?"
Picturesqueness will be lent the con
test for the senatorial nominations bj
the personalities of the contestants
Senator Marthie's fight for renomina
tion will lend color to the campaign ii
view of the fact that President Wilsor
and the administration have anothei
choice for the democratic nomination.
It will be recalled that in 1912 Mr
Wilson "turned down" the veteran o:
Jersey democratic politics, former Sen
ator Smith, whom everybody suppose<
would be in line for the senatorship
and insisted that Mr. Martine should b<
elected. Now it falls out that th<
President has transferred his politics
favor to another, and the word hai
gone out among the machine and or
ganization men that Attorney Genera
Wescott 1s preferred as the candsdat*
for the senatorship. Senator Martin*
obstinately refuses tr> v?ci<i
chine dictation and will try his for
tunes at the primaries.
"Farmer Jim," as he is called, is very
popular with the masses and especially
with the agriculturalists, and is going
to give the machine a try-out agains
personal popularity. I met him today
l on the streets of Newark, stamping
along in his familiar way and being
j stopped every here and there by some
I body to be given a greeting.
I I am told that some of the "machine'
! men, while obedient to organization
I have a kind of sneaking sympathy fo
I him and would like to see him pul
through. Mr. Wescott is the man wh<
nominated Mr. Wilson at Baltimore an<
renominated him at St. Louis and i
counting on receiving the support o
the administration and the organiza
tion at the proper moment, and in i
way which will be effective.
Three Republicans Competing.
The republicans will have three can
didates for the Senatorial nominatioi
in the contest before the prlmariet
Former Gov. Franklin Murphy claim
the preference, as a residuary legatee
so to speak, of the old republican part;
when it dominated New Jersey. He 1
strong with the republican organiza
tion, that is to say, with the componen
parts of what was once a perfectly gooi
machine, "scrapped" by Woodrow Wil
son, but now being reassembled and se
up. It is said, however, to be a ques
tion whether Mr. Murphy's identit
with the former old guard will be a
asset or a liability in this scramble fo
the nomination.
Another nandirtat*
senatorial nomination is former Stat
Senator Joseph S. Frelinghuysen. H
is .strong with the agriculturalists an
with the educationalists and Is appeal
ing to both standpatters and progress
ives.
Then there is former Gov. >E. C
Stokes, who is also out for a toga. Hi
petition is being circulated now an
doubtless will be filed unless he see
some handwriting on the wall to dia
turb him. He was a Roosevelt sup
porter prior to the convention of 1912
but refused to follow the colonel out c
the party, and it is said the progress
ives do not know whether he voted to
Roosevelt or not.
Governorship Fight Entertaining.
Locally the governorship fight is c
more interest than the senatorial con
test, although the latter is of greatc
concern to the national leaders. Th
way things stand, it Is said to be quit
possible for the republicans to carr
the state in November on the presiden
tial ticket and for the democrats t
elect the governor.
TH o * nnaaihilitv nrliies in ihia mat
The democrats will nominate for governc
| H Otto Wlttpenn, former mayor of Jet
eev City and a very popular man amon
democrat* throughout the atate. Ther
will be no holding back over hi* auppoi
and every democrat not only will be ea
pected to do hi* duty, but will do It an
try to bring a republican neighbor alon
with him.
For the republican nomination thre
candidate* are contesting In the primal
le*. State Senator* Walter E. Edge ?
Atlantic City and Austen Colgate of El
sex county and George I< Record will t
on the primary ballot* Mr. Record I
running on a local option and land-ta
platform, and standing as a radical o
everything. He may draw enough voti
to make the race between the other tw
candidates very close.
It is said, as part of the political goa
sip of the neighborhood, that some of th
old guard republicans are Jealous becaui
Everett Colby has been placed on th
national republican campaign com
mlttee and are fearful that he may lah
' (Continued on Eleventh Pag*.)
IURY FREES ORPET
5 OF1RDMRGE
e Wisconsin University Student
Declared Not Guilty of
Slaying Sweetheart.
ONE LONE JUROR AGAINST
r ACQUITTAL FIVE HOURS
i- Death of Marion Lambert at Home
in Illinois Has Been Subject of
Two-Month Proceedings.
WACKEGAN, 111., July 16.?Williarr
H. Orpet, the university studenl
charged with murdering Marion Lamg
bert, a high school girl and his fore
mer sweetheart, was found not guiltj
s today by a jury in Judge Donnelly's
g court after five hours' deliberation.
d The jury~retired at 2:50 o'clock. A1
e 6 o'clock its members were taken tc
"dinner, where they spent half an hour
One hour later came word that a verdict
had been reached. Probably flftj
persons were still waiting for it. Org
pet was sent for in his cell and Judg<
U Donnelly was still at the courthouse.
Three ballots were taken. The first
two stood eleven to one for acquittal.
p Shakes Hands of Jurors.
? Orpet was silent through excess ol
emotion. He was barely able to returr
th* handnlasns of his attorneys. H
made his way to the jurors and shooh
e their hands one by one, smiling wanly,
n but saying nothing.
a Mrs. Orpet received the verdict as 11
e it were a mere matter of routine. Sh
_ noted that a photographer was trying
to snap a picture of her son and here
self and warned him, meanwhile shields
ing her own face with a newspaper,
t The defendant, his father and mother,
his brother and several friends hurried
" into the witness room, where their prie
vacy was safeguarded by a bailiff.
Half ant hour later they emerged.
"We'll go home now, William," Mrs.
Orpet said, and they made their way
down the back stairs and to the jail.
B Orpet's few belongings in his cell
were already packed. He had recovered
his self-possession by this time, and
- thanked Sheriff Griffin for making his
1 four months' stay in jail as comfortable
as possible. The party was then
^ driven home in the automobile of one
e of Orpet's lawyers.
I Important Events on 15th.
The important events of the trial all
occurred on the 15th. The selection of
the jury began on May 15, the taking of
testimony was begun on June 15 and
acquittal" July' 15.
The jurors in their deliberations carried
with them instructions from Judge
Donnelly which James H. Wilkerson
and Ralph F. Potter, Orpet's counsel,
considered highly favorable to the defendant
in their interpretation of reasonable
doubt as applied to the series
of circumstances which constituted the
principal part of the evidence. Five
superfluous counts of the ten in the indictment
against the defendant were
stricken out by the court.
The morning and forty-five minutes
of the afternoon session were occupied
by Attorney David Joslyn in the final
summing up for the state.
Proves Perplexing: Case.
The case of Marion Lambert and
William H. Orpet in the course of its
development became one of the most
perplexing in the annals of criminal
history. Motive paralleled motive, action
paralleled action, opportunity
paralleled opportunity until the marks
of murder and of suicide became sub,
stantially as one.
in me ciiu iuc gum u? iiuiutcuuc ui
the defendant, so far as the adduction
of actual fact was concerned, went to
the Jury on the mystifying niceties of
chemical analysis and Orpet's own compromising
conduct. The mystery attracted
unusual interest in all parts of
the United States and Canada.
There appeared in evidence fortyfour
letters written by Orpet to
Marion over a period of a year; bottles
and boxes containing samples of
cyanide from the McCormick estate,
. from the Deerfleld High School laboratory,
from Kraft's drug store at Lake
Forest and white powder scraped from
' Marion's hand and from spots on her
s cloak; the girl's garments, a magazine
, article dealing with the use of cyanide
* as a fumigator in greenhouses, the
y chemistry text books used, respectives
ly, by the high school girl and the
_ college student, a copy of the Wiscont
sin statute dealing with the sale of
a poisons and a bottle of molasses and
. water.
t Five chemists, all of whom were
. specialists in toxicology; one alienist.
y two surveyors, druggists, street car
n men, an undertaker, school teachers,
r police officers, reporters and friends
of the orpets and Lamberts were among
n the long array of witnesses who testie
fled.
e Ralph W. Dady, state's attorney of
d Lake county; David R. Joslyn, state's
- attorney of McHenry county, and Eu
gene M. Runyard appeared as counsel
for the prosecution, and James H. Wilkerson,
former United States district
s attorney at Chicago; Ralph F. Potter,
d his law partner, and Leslie P. Hanna
s of Waukegan for the defense. More
i- than a thousand veniremen were ex.
amined before a jury, said by counsel
I. upon its selection to be above the av>t
erage in intelligence and character,
i- was chosen.
r N
Events at Lake Forest.
The series of events started at Lake
Forest, one of a series of aristocratic
' suburbs dotting the heavily wooded
bluffs along the west shore of Lake
r Michigan from Chicago to Waukegan,
e for Frank Lambert, father of Marlon,
y was superintendent of the Kuppen
neimer estate, ana Edward O. Orpet,
o father of the defendant, superintendent
of the estite of Cyrus McCormick,
* both at Lake Forest.
" Last summer young Orpet, then a
* pallid, slender youth of nineteen, reF
turned from the University of Wlscon'e
sin at Madison for a vacation at home,
't He fell madly In love with Marlon, according
to his letters. She had comd
pleted her junior year at the Deerfleld
* High School, and was then seventeen,
and known for her gayety and laugh>e
ter?"the life of the pqrty." as one
witness put It.
? When Orpet returned to college In the
fall of 1915 frequent letters were ex e
changed. Orpet destroyed hers; she
Is saved his, and they remained after hei
* death to speak of the great fear of exn
posure that came upon her. Orpet, in
is testifying, said that he was certain
'o that these fears were groundless. Once
he mailed her a bottle of molasses and
i- water "to ease her mind." and he
? brought a similar compound with him
is for the same purpose when he entered
re Helm's woods, near Lake Forest, with
- her on the morning of Wednesday. Feb?
ruary 9. last. Orpet testified, that he
~ (OsttUmut Sleventh Page.)
1
I
^
MR. HAY'S APPOINTMENT
TO BENCHUNEXPECTED
Leaders at Home Quickly Torn to
Judge HarriaoB ffif Winchester
as Probable Successor.
Special Dispatch to The 8tar.
WINCHESTER, Va.. July 15.?Announcement
of the appointment by President
Wilson of Representative James
Hay, for twenty years member of Congress
from the seventh Virginia district,
and author of the Hay army bill, to the
Court of Claims bench was entirely unexpected
in the district, but already there
is speculation as to his successor. j (
Mr. Hay has represented the seventh ' 1
district for the past twenty years, and for I
sixteen years has had no opposition. He j
nas risen in me nouse or representatives
to the chairmanship of one of its most
important committees?that of military
affairs. He is the author of the bill passed
by House and Senate increasing the
standing army of the United States and
federalizing the National Guard, and has
other important legislation to his credit.
Mr. Hay has represented the seventh dis- t,
trict with conspicuous ability and loyalty \
to his constituents.
Judge Harrison as Successor. |
The friends of Judge Thomas W. Har- j
rison of Winchester, a leading member j
of the Virginia Judiciary, are anxious to j
present Judge Harrison's name as a can- j?
didate for Mr. Hay's seat in Congress,
providing Judge Harrison can be induced j;
to accept. He is a graduate of the Uni- j
versity of Virginia and has been on the
.. .. bencn iioout nrteen years. He has!
displayed marked fairness and high ability
in the discharge of hi6 duties. '
He has served in the Virginia state sen- j
ate and as a member of the constitutional i
convention and took a leading part in >
framing the present constitution of the
state. Judge Harrison possesses profound
knowledge of law and has rendered valuable
service to the state in his long public
career. It has been predicted that
ultimately he would become a member of
the supreme court of appeals of Virginia.
Acceptable to Whole District.
While Judge Harrison would accept the
nomination to Congress at great personal
sacrifice, the democrats of the seventh
district feel he would be an able successor
to Mr. Hay. a candidate acceptable to
the entire district and a man fitted in
every way to discharge the duties of the
office. Judge Harrison is a native of
Leesburg. Loudoun county, and belongs
to a family long prominent in public affairs
of the state and nation.
MR. HAY WILL REMAIN
IINTII SFSSIflNflllKFS
Virginian Appointed to Court of
Claims Paid Warm Tribute
in the House.
Representative Hay of Virginia,
whose appointment to the Court of
Claims was announced yesterday, intends
to remain in Congress until the
close of the present session, and the
I pending military committee bills will
. be finished on the House side of the
Capitol under his direction as chairman
of the committee.
He said yesterday the reason for his
quitting Congress for the judgeship
was that he preferred the bench:
"I have had a long experience in Congress,"
he said, "and will be glad to
go on the bench now Instead of keeping '
up with the continual rotation of po- 1
litical elections. There is no other rea- .
son. There are no political questions <
involved. I will resign from Congress
at the close of this session."
Representative Mann of Illinois made
a speech in the House yesterday prals
: -.-t
ing the services of Representative Hay,
Republicans joined with the democrats
in applauding him.
"I am glad Hay has the appointment
if he wants it, and I suppose he would
not have gotten it if he did not want it."
said Speaker Clark, "but it takes out of
the House one of its strongest men. Hay
is one of the ablest presiding officers in
Congress. On the floor, in a parliamentary
fight, he never quarrels; he just
takes up a saw and saws off the limb."
The Virginia members said that the
appointment gives Mr. Hay an opportunity.
after years of vigorous public life,
to spend the rest of his time in- the quiet
dignity of a judicial office.
Mr. Hay had Just been renominated in
his congressional district and has had
practically no opposition for some years.
It was said at the Capitol that Thomas
W. Harrison of Winchester probably
would figure as a candidate to succeed
him.
KILL SHARK; TRAP TWO
|
Schools of Man-Eaters Reported in
Long Island Sound; Others Seen
by Fishermen.
SEW YORK. July 15.?Reports of
sharks killed, captured and seen came '
from many points today. Two of the
man-eating species were caught alive,
one being hooked in Princess bay,
Staten Island, and the other taken in a
net at Atlantic Highlands, N. J.
Schools of sharks were reported in
Loug Island sound. Near Stepping Stone j
lighthouse one was killed which meas- I
ured seven and 9. half feet long. It became
entagled in a net.
Capt. Hill of the steamship Finland,
arriving today from Liverpool, said he ]
sighted two enormous sharks off Fire
Island.
Up the Hudson river as far as Ossining,
N. Y., fishermen reported they !
had seen the huge fish, and three men
fishing off the Larchmont breakwater
in the sound made for shore when they j
saw what appeared to be sharks.
Residents of Matawan, N. J., continued
thdir hunt for the sharks that killed
Lester Stillwell, a small boy, and
Stanley Fisher, a grown man. The funerals
of the two victims were held this
afternoon.
DR. 1TCHNIK0FF DEAD
I ?1
Famous Bacteriologist Succumbs to
Heart Disease in Apartment at
Pasteur Institute.
PARIS. July 15. 6:37 p.m.?Prof. Elie
Metchnikoff, the famous bacteriologist,
is dead. The savant's death was not
unexpected, as he had suffered from
heart disease.
Prof. Metchnikoff died in an apartment
at the Pasteur Institute, with
which he had long been connected, and
of which he was one of the directors.
Mme. Metchnikoff. who had been constantly
at the bedside of her husband
during his illness, was with him at the
end.
Prof. Metchnikoff had been in poor
health for several months. TJ^e first
news of his serious condition reached
this country in January. His life was
despaired of for a time, but he rallied.
His physicians announced a rew weeks
later, however, that the affection had
not yielded to treatment and In May
they said there was no hope of saving:
the life of their famous patient
ROME ADMITS*SINKING
OF ITALIAN DESTROVER
ROME, via London. July 1?. 1:0? a.m.
?It Is officially announced that th'e
Italian destroyer Impetuoso was torpedoed
and sunk In the lower Adriatic
July 10 by an enemy submarine. Most
of the crew were saved.
Sinking of an Italian cruiser by a
submarine was announced yesterday
In a dispatch from B^lin.
|
^ 5'
V
castro mmw
on reaching new york
Former Venezuelan President Must
Face Federal Inquiry Board.
"Bed Tape," He Says.
NEW YORK, July 15.?Gen. Cipriano
Castro, former president of Venezuela,
who was admitted to the United States
in 1913, after being detained by the immigration
authorities for six weeks on
Ellis Island, again was denied admission
to this country today when he arrived
on the steamship Vauban from
Port of Spain, Trinidad.
His detention was upon orders received
from Washington, it was learned
tonight. Gen. Castro was permitted to
remain aboard the Vauban to await the
outcome of a hearing before a special
board of inquiry tomorrow.
Old Charges Revived.
Assistant Commissioner of Immigration
Byron H. Uhl asserted that the
charges against Gen. Castro were the
same as three years ago, involving
moral turpitude. Mr. Uhl explained
that a special board of inquiry in 1913
had ordered Gen. Castro excluded from
I the country and that the then Secretary
of Commerce and Labor had approved
this action. Gen. Castro, however,
sued out a writ of habeas corpus
in a federal court, and was permitted
to land. The government appealed and.
Mr. Uhl said. Gen. Castro, who had been
required to furnish a bond, voluntarily
left the United States before the appeal
was heard by the higher court.
uen. i_asi.ro appearea sreaiiy perturbed
when informed by the immigration
authorities upon his arrival here
that he would not be permitted to come
ashore. He denied that his visit was
of a political nature.
Claims Reports Unfounded.
"Reports that I have come to New
York for political reasons or for conferences
with Latin American leaders,"
said Gen. Castro, "are absolutely un|
founded I have no political interests
'whatsoever and happen to be in New
j York simply because I could not go
! dftyect from Trinidad to Porto Rico,
where my family now is. I intend to
take the first boat I can get."
Gen. Castro said that a revolution in
Venezuela at this time could not succeed
for many reasons, despite the fact
that the condition of the country was
bad, both politically and financially. He
deprecated the possibility of war between
Venezuela and Colombia over
the boundary dispute, owing to the fact
that .the difficulties were "perfectly negotiable."
Gen. Castro indicated that he thought
his present trouble merely "red tape."
May Not Press Proceedings.
Immigration bureau officials said 1
last night no special orders had been
issued in regard to Gen. Castro, but
that the local officials at New York
had full authority to detain him and
make a preliminary ruling upon his ,
right to enter the country. It was .
indicated that proceedings would not
be pressed if the general was planning 1
to take the next steamer for Porto
Rico.
FIFTEEN PERSONS INJURED.
]
Interarban Car Collides With Switch
Engine at Grand Rapids.
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich., July 15.?
Fifteen persons were injured tonight
when an interurban car, bound from
Holland for Grand Rapids, ran into a
Pere Marquette switch engine at i
Grandvllle, fifteen miles west of here.
There were about seventy persons in
the interurban. Several of the victims,
who were brought to local hospitals,
were seriously, crushed.
The Interurban swung around a curve i
and plunged into the engine, which, it j
is charged, was on the interurban right
of way. Railroad officials claim, how- :
'ever, that a block signal which told 1
of the presence of the engine had been i
set on the right of way and that the <
motorman Ignored it. ?
Nearly all of the Injured persona are ^
from Grand Rapids. . , .
s
DRIVEBYTEUTONS
ON SKROBOWA LINE
Petrograd Reports Assaults
Were Repulsed; Successes
Claimed by Berlin.
THREE MASSED ATTACKS
ON RUSSIAN POSITIONS
Counter Attack Gained More Ground
for Czar's Forces, Says Official
Statement.
PETROGRAD, July 15, via London.?
The Germans made a determined effort
yesterday to force back the Russians
in the region of Baranovichi,
where heavy fight! ng has been in progress
for some time. Three times the
Germans launched attacks in massed
formation. The war office announced
today that these attacks had been
broken down and that the Russians,
initiating a counter attack, made
further progress. The announcement
follows:
"On Thursday evening the Germans,
under cover of a violent fire, approached
our barbed wire entanglements
in the region of the village of
Lioubanichi, on the River Servitch, a
tributary of the Niemen. They were
repulsed by our artillery fire.
Germans Take Offensive.
"Yesterday the Germans opened a
violent artillery fire against our lines
eastward of Gorodichtche (Baranovichi
sector), after which they assumed the
offensive in the region of the village of
Skrobowa, but were repulsed with
heavy losses by our fire. A little later,
after a continuation of the bombardment,
the enemy took the offensive in
massed formation a little farther north
oi sxroDOwa, dui were again repuiseu
by our flre. After having taken breath
the Germans made a fresh attack in the
region of the same village, but our
troops repulsed the enemy with machine
gun and rifle fire? We then made
a counter attack which resulted in the
capture of more ground, whfbh we are
now consolidating.
"Repeated enemy attempts to advance
toward the sector southward of the village
of Skrobowa were also repulsed by
our fire.
"On the front of our position southeast
of Riga the Germans took the offensive
against our sectors near Frantx,
northwest of Pulkarn, but were re*
pulsed by our artillery .and infantry
flre and by hand grenade fighting."
Berlin Claims Success.
BERLIN, July 16, via Loudon.?Parts
of positions in the Skrobowa region,
north of the Volhynian sector, which
were taken from the Germans by the
Russians July 3, have been recaptured
by German troops under Prince Leopold,
the war oflice announced today.
More than 1,500 prisoners were taken.
The army headquarters statement on
operations along the eastern front says:
"Army group of Field Marshal von
Hindenburg: Russian detachments
which attempted to cross the Dvina near
Lennewaden west of Friedrichstadt
were repulsed.
"Numerous bombs were dropped on
railway stations on the Smorgon-Molodechno.
These stations were busy at
the time with a considerable traffic.
"Army group of Prince Leopold: In
the region of Skrobowa. parts of positions
on first line of defense which had
been held by the enemy since his first
attack on the morning of July 3, were
recaptured as the result of our attacks.
Eleven officers and more than 1,500
men were taken prisoners.
"Army group of Gen. von Linsingen:
The situation is unchanged. Our aircraft
squadrons achieved satisfactory
results in their attacks on the troop
transport traffic station at Kiverzy,
northeast of Lutsk.
"Army group of Gen. Count von Bothmer:
There is nothing to report."
Hard Fighting- in Galicia.
VIENNA, July 15. via Amsterdam and
London.?There has been increased battle
activity near Delatyn in Galicia,
says the Austrian official statement issued
today.
Russian vanguards which entered the
town were repulsed. An attempted
rtussian itiiacK buuuiwchi. ui i/eidiyn,
the statement adds, failed.
CRISIS MAY COME SOON
FOR GERMAN CHANCELLOR
Empire Awaits Resumption Monday
of Conference With. Leaders
of Reichstag.
LONDON, July 15, 11:10 p.m.?The
conference of the German chancellor,
Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg, with the
political leaders of the reichstag has
been adjourned to Monday, says an
Exchange dispatch from Amsterdam, so
that the chancellor may first have an
audience with Emperor William at imperial
headquarters.
The result of his negotiations with
the leaders of the reichstag, the dispatch
adds, is awaited with interest
throughout Germany, as it is supposed
the chancellor either will be forced to
define his peace policy or to retire.
A dispatch from Berlin under date
of July 3 said that the campaign in
favor of the resumption of active sub
marine war was going on energetically.
The agitation, it was said, was
supported by the Navy League, publicists.
conservatives and part of the national
liberals. One of the two purposes
of the agitation was said to be
a movement against Chancellor von '
Bethmann-Hollweg, largely on the '
ground of internal politics. The other
branch was directed toward the re- '
sumption of the submarine campaign.
- ? .
French Duke Diet of Wounds.
PARIS, July 15.?Duke de Rohan,
member of the chamber of deputies
rom the department of Horblhan. died <
iresterday in a hospital at the front <
from wounds received' the preceding
lay In the^battle of the Somme. The I
luke recently waa promoted to be a 1
saptaln of Infantry. After being' '
srasa^of 8on?r*1^|1i *** '
BRITISH HIT HARD
AT GERMAN LINES i
ALONGTHESOMME '
Capture Whole of Delville
Wood and Repulse a Strong
Counter Attack. 1
v 9
CAVALRY GETS ITS FIRST 1 '
CHANCE IN MANY MONTHS
Dragoon Guards Charge With
Lances, as in Days of Na- ,<
poleonic Wars. |
SHELLING VERDUN TRENCHES
Paris Reports Heavy Artillery Engagement
on the Meuse?Attack
by Germans on Belgian
Front Repulsed.
I
LONDON, July 16,12:40 p.m.-. .
"Further important successes" on
the German second line have
been gained by the British, according
to the official communication
issued at midnight. The
British captured the whole of 1
Delville wood and repulsed a f
strong counter attack. The text
reads: .
Heavy Fighting All Day.
"Heavy fighting continued all day in
the Pozieres-GuUlemont sector of the
German second line, as a result of
which further important successes
have been grained by our troops.
"East of Longueval, despite the enemy's
desperate resistance, we captured
the whole of Delville wood and repulsed
a strong counter attack, with
severfe losses to the enemy.
"North of Bazentin-le-Grand our
troops penetrated the German third
line at the Bo is de Faureaux, in which
we obtained lodgment. In this neighborhood
a d^?chment of the enemy
was successlfu.- accounted for by a
squadron of Dragoon Guards?the first 1
opportunity for mounted action afforded
the cavalry since 1914.
Counter Attacks Bepulsed.
"West of Bazentin-le-Grand we captured
the whole wood of that name
and repulsed two counter attacks.
were, witn otner prisoners, we captured
the commander of a Bavarian
regiment with his whole staff.
"East of Ovillers a further advance
has been made and our troops have
fought their way to the outskirts of
Pozieres.
"During the last forty-eight hours oar
aeroplanes have been jnuch hampered '
by unfavorable weather. Throughout
the whole of the 14th the clouds were
seldom at a higher altitude than 600
feet. Despite this drawback much valuable
work was done.
"In one of our bombing raids an
enemy train was derailed and a coach
overturned, while in the aerial combats
in the last twenty-four hours we
destroyed three Fokkers, three biplanes
and a double-engined aeroplane and
forced another Fokker to land in a
damaged condition. All our machines
returned safely to our lines."
Cavalry Gets a Chance.
BRITISH FRONT IN FRANCE. July
15, 4 p.m., via London.?After the
breach was made in the second German
line yesterday, cavalry detachments.
English and Indian, for the first time
had the reward of their year's wait
fince trench warfare began. They
went straight in the face of the Germans,
who were forming a new defense
line between the strong points of
High wood and Delville wood, which
the British infantry was attacking.
It was 7:30 in the evening when they
rode forth from the cover where they
were awaiting orders to cross the fields,
after their patrols had felt the way,
with clear going ahead, and behind
them to demolished trenches of the
first and second lines and hn area of
shell holes, which made difficult their
progress to their rendezvous. Infantrymen
who witnessed the sight could
hardly believe their eyes.
When some Germans with automatic
rifles, which are virtually portable machine
guns, blazed from a wheat field,
the Dragoon Guards set their lances
and charged, wheeled and rode back
through them, as might have been done
in the Napoleonic wars.
Germans Remember Drill.
Thus, lor the first time in eighteen
months of continuous warfare on the
western front, with its continuous bayoneting,
bombing, gassing and shelling,
an enemy was impaled from &
horse. The surviving Germans, who
had not forgotten their drill, tried to
receive the horsemen in their sweep
back, with the bayonet.
At another point, as the cavalry
swept across the wheat fields, the surprise
of the Germans was as manifest,
as if some apparition had appeared.
The cavalry went ahead until they
found the infantry had not yet taken
Delville and High wood, and were signaled
to fall back and dig in until re- r
lieved by the infantry. They brought
back more than thirty prisoners?the
survivors after their charges.
A L Ulic u "it, w *?*.*? a. iiiovuiiic Suit
was troubling them, a British aviator
in a monoplane, flying at a height of
three hundred feet, circled four times
as he poured the contents of his machine
gun into the Germans.
One division, whose loss was only
one man in the capture of a section of
the second line on its front, was not
jo happy as the cavalrymen, who at
last had seen action.
Official French Report.
PARis, July IS. 10:40 p.m.?The official
communication issued by the war
office tonight reads:
"On the right bank of the Meuse
the bombardment was very violent on
tooth aides in the sector of Floury,
rhere was no event of importation on
As rest of the front-" ?
"Belgian ooownunicntiou; Xast tight
