WEATHER FORECAST.
Prftly cloudy to-day and to-morraw.
tin.
with showei't to-night or Monday.
Higheit ttmperaturt yesterday, 73; lowest, 61.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 9.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 320.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, JULY 16, 1916 . Copyright, 1916, by the Kim Printing find Publishing Atnoclation,
60 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
GARRANZA MEN
CONSPIRING TO
DEPOSE CHIEF
Gen. Trevino nnd Other of
Big: lenders in Plot
to Revolt.
BEPORT COMES TO U. S.
FB03I A PAYMASTER
Armies Moving Toward
Border Commanded by
"Anti" Officers.
El Paso, Tex., July 15. Report of
new plot to reatore Government In
Mexico by overthrowing the Carranxa
supremacy were brought to the border
to-day by a Carranza paymaster from
Chihuahua city, under the command of
Oen. Trevino. who declared he la one
ef the principal In the new movement.
The Generals of the north, aald the
paymaster, having tired of the dlla
tory nifties of the First Chief, who re
fuses to consider national elections
uiiill rtrtnln reforms of his own have
com. Into lielng, nre aliening forces
to drive Gen. Carranra out of Mexico
and to net up a government which
ehai:, an Its flrst act, call upon the
people of Mrxlco to vote for President
iml Vice-President.
In I hiit way they believe national
t: tiers ran be selected In whose gui
dance the people, as a whole, will have
rr-ntidence. The reforms' will then
com? about through acts of Congress,
to be elected at the same time the
President and Vice-President are ae
tected. Chiefs In the Mertneit.
Mentioned In the movement, according
ta the Mexican officer, are Oen. Trevino,
Oen. Naferrete of Matamoros, Gen. Mur
fula of Tamaullpas, Gen. Qoniales of
Juaret and Gen. Calles of Sonora.
Flnco the bulk of Mexico's army has
keen tent to the border to repel expected
attack by the United States, these Gen
erals now control these force.
At what hour th movement la. to take
active measures, aald the paymaster,
tone hut the leaden know. Jftom tha
fact that a number of aubordlnate com
manders have recently been called to
Mexico city to appear before Carranxa
nnd Obregon It ii believed the chiefs at
Mexico' city have In some way had their
usplclona aroused.
Another officer who reached Juarex to
day and came to El Peso In civilian at
tire paid It was rumored In Chihuahua
city that the loyalty of Gen. Trevino to
Carranxa was not beyond suspicion, but
that m yot nothing Justified such sus
picions. He added that the Villa movement Is
trowing, that Villa himself, with 3.000 of
hi total force of 1,000, Is at Meaasandlas,
bout twenty miles southwest of 8anta
Barbara, Chihuahua, and that his troops
are well Intrenched to meet any assault.
Villa, he said, has plenty of ammunition
and many machine guna, as the Gov
ernment troops of Gen. Ramos and
Oarcia have learned In battle, and that
Villa has two chief subordinates.
Trevino Seada A.OOO.
The officer added that Gen. Trevino
has sent 6,000 reenforcements to asalst
In the demolition of the bandit forces
operating between the Durango line and
Chihuahua rlty, but that they have been
unable to secure a decisive battle with
superior numbers on their side. Villa,
he sali. was playing a new and cau
tious role, cn 'erring men and materials
ami giving ha:tle only when he had a
piltlve advantage.
Francisco Villa was seen In Maplml.
Mate of Durnngo, on June 2, by a resi
dent of Tnrreon, according to advices re.
reived to-day. Maplml wan occupied by
the Villa force without resistance, the
Information stated, and also the town of
Bermejlllo.
The report told of an engagement be
tween Villa followers and tie facto Gov
ernment troops at Parral, raying the VII
1'Mas entered the town with crlea of
"Viva Felix Dlnx I" On July 10 Villa
forces were attacking the city of Du
tango, and nn attack on Torrcon was ex
Pnted at any time.
The report added that de facto Govern
ment troops, under Gen. Canuto Reyes,
em to Parral on July 7 had deserted to
Villa.
'Sen. I.uls Herrera, who left Parral
nme time ago for Mexico city, has re
turned and Is now In command of his
troop, according to a telegram from
0n. Obregon received In Juarex to
day by Oen. Franrlaoo Gonialea,
The telegram was In reply to a mes
'age from tjen. Gonsalea stating that It
had been variously reiiorted In the
I'nlted Htntt that Herrera had been
Jilted by villa bandits south of Chlhua
nun rlty nnd that he had been ordered
hot by Gen. Obregon.
VILLA CHIEF KILLED.
aeliran, Ilanillt Leader, Dies la
Crrro Rlanro fight.
Chihuahua Citt, July 13, J. rtel.
tra, one of Villa's chief lieutenants and
participant In the massacre of eighteen
Americans nt Bantu Ysabel, Chihuahua,
n January, was killed In the engage
treat at Cerrn Blanco on July 12, reports
to Gen. Trevino to-day Indicated.
These reorts were supported by
etorim told on their arrival here by
Mlllsta prisoners, who said that when
bandits reformed at Bombretello lie).
Iran whh missing. Holdlers aald that
J Ha himself was not present at Cerro
Blanco, the outlaw forces there being
olrocted by Callxto Contreraa.
The bandit chieftain, they aald. being
"'appointed on the eyacuatlon of Jlme-
at his failure to capture arma and
ammunition, left the commnnd, going to
Hacienda Salnlses. about fifty miles
aniithwest. The Vllllstaa added that be
rause of shottuge of ammunition only
t'n rounds was allowed each man In the
t-i-rro Blanco engagement, and that fol
i"lng the fight more than 300 men de
serted ien Trevino received des-patchee to
day frr.m Gen, Matins namos, command-
C'"ii ( f ii m if on unilli i'tigc.
AND NEW YORK
ORPET NOT GUILTY
ON FOURTH BALLOT
y8conBin University Student
Acquitted of Murdering
Marion Lambert.
JURY 8 TO 4- AT FIRST
Fifty-one Instructions From
Court Highly Favorable
to the Defendant.
Waukioan, III., July 15. Will If.
Orpet walked from the court room,
where for two months he had heard ev.
dence against htm that he had murdered
his high school sweetheart, Marlon Lam
bert, a free man to-night
It required four ballots for the Jury
of twelve farmers, railroad men and
other plain cltliens to determine that he
had not administered cyanide of potas
sium to the girl with Intent to put her
out of the way that he might marry
V.CICIIIK louacr. i
The case went to the jury at 3 P. M.
and the first ballot resulted in a vote of!
eight to four for acquittal. On to sue-1
ceedtng ballots there waa a gradual!
shrinkage of the minority. I
When the verdict was read the deadly
pallor of Orpet's face turned to crim
son. His mother sobbed quietly. The
youth stepped forward, shook hands
with the Jurymen and with Judge Don
nelly. As he turned to leave the court
room a group of girls blocked hta way.
They reached out, grasped his hand and
patted him on the shoulder.
Flftr-aae Iastractlons.
It waa the first time in more than five
months that he had been allowed to
wander without a bainft at his side. He
straightened up and threw back hla
shoulders. Then his mother came along,
and Mrs. Taylor, his landlady, and the
three walked to a watting automobile,
which whirled them away toward the
Orpet home In Lake Forest.
When the Jury began Its deliberations
It had fifty-one Instructions, considered
highly favorable to the youthful defend
ant, and also the . final denunciatory
worda of Special Prosecutor David R.
Joslyn, who concluded his argument
shortly after the noon hour, ringing In
Ita eara
Mr. Joslyn laid emphasis on the rela
tions between Orpet and the girl, assert
ing that even If aha did commit suicide
the college youth who abandoned her In
her trouble actually "was responsible In
the eyes of God and In hla own con
science. He branded the University of
Wisconsin student a murderer and a
liar, and declared that Investigator Car
lin, for the defence, was "dishonest" and
kept three witnesses In Madison from
testifying for the Btate.
Isaar Madr Plain.
The bottle of molasses and water
which Orpet said he brought from Mad
ison for the girl when he met her In
Helm's woods on February 9, which was
found nine days later, he characterised
as a "plant."
Judge Donnelly told the Jurors they
must disregard the relations of Orpet and
the girl that Is, they must not permit
evidence regarding her condition to carry
any weight In the murder verdict.
Many friends called at the Orpet home
to-night. The youth was In a condition
of collapse. His nerva had given away
and the reaction left him weak and ex
hausted. The trial cost the county
130,000.
It la aald Cyrua H. McCormlck, presi
dent of the International Harvester Com
pany, will pay most of the Orpet defence
bills. He engaged the defence attorneys.
He never believed In the guilt of the boy,
whose father la landscape gardener on
the McCormlck estate. Young Orpet
plans to bury himself for a time In the
woods of Wisconsin.
Will H. Orpet, 21-year-old University
of Wisconsin Junior, was Indicted on
March by the take county grand Jury
at Waukegan, III., for the murder of
Marlon Lambert, an 18-yenr-old Lake
Forest high school girl, who died at his
feet In a patch of woods near Lake For
est on February 10. An autopsy dis
closed that the girl had been poisoned
by cyanide of potasalum. A phial, which
waa supposed to hare contained the
deadly drug, was picked up a short dis
tance from the spot where her body waa
found. . . .
Orpet and Miss Lambert had been
sweethearta. Their fathers were care
takers of adjoining estates. The young
,.- ... ....mi. nffeetlnnnte letters to
IUIH Willi. --
each other and were sweethearts until
Orpet fell In love witn miss ioukh,
. . I .h.l.l,u nt TV. K .1 111 111.
instructor ,.
Then ha dlacarded the young high school
girl, and ane was oisconsii.
It waa the theory of the prosecution
that Orpet met the girl in the lonely
woods and told her he was going to
marry Mlaa Youker. It was contended
that he gave her the poison, telling hr
It would save her from dlsgrsce aa the
result of the condition In which she said
. -- -b. - u Ati bi soon aa
sne was in, ;-.t
It touched her lips. Orpet returned to his
studies and was arrestee two u, .......
Orpet Inslsteit from ins ni
girl committed suicide.
" . i.i. .r,..i and durlns the trial
Miss Youker declared her belief In Or
pet's Innocence ana inswieu "
would marry him after he was acquitted.
CONEY TRAIN JPMM TRACK.
IOO PawnsTere In Panic Twa Are
aalr Hart.
A lively panic was caused among 100
unsxengera In a two car express train of
the Sen Beach Line In Ihe Fourth avenue
subway. Brooklyn, Just before 12 o'clock
Inst night when the first car Jumped the
track twenty feet aouth of the Thirty
sixth street station and bumped against
the pillars. The train waa bound for
Coney Island. The car left the track
nt a awltch and came to a stop after a
jolt against one. of the pillars. Pas
sengers were thrown about and two men
were so seriously hurt that they were
taken unconscious to the Norwegian
Hospital.
A abort circuit followed the accident
snd the subway waa filled .with amoke
for a considerable distance. Passengers
arriving on other train, who lingered
on the station platform to aee what waa
going on. began to topple over nnd It
was necessary in levlve five by the aid
of pulinotors. Railroad employees finally
forced all to leave the platform.
4 SHARKS CAUGHT,
MANY OTHERS SEEN
One Landed by Fisherman Off
Keyport, Another Near At
lantic HIghlandH.
BATTLE IX GLEN COVE
Const flunrd Arranges for Co
operation With
Resorts.
Four more sharks were, captured In
waters not far from New York yesterday,
and despatches from many other points
within a radlua of fifty mllea told of
the sea monsters having been seen there.
If all of the reports ware authentic ob
servers remarked no lens than two
schools of sharks besides nineteen others
not attached to any particular moving
company. Estimating a score of sharks
to a school a moderate figure In view of
the fact that dictionaries are silent on
the composition of a school except to de
fine It aa a multitude of sea animals
there must have been a total of fifty-six
Of them discovered.
While the newest game along the At
lantic coast, shark hunting, went on un
abated yesterday, steps were taken by
Congress and by Secretary of the Treas
ury McAdoo to atd In the crusade. A
resolution was Introduced In the House
by Representative Tague of Massachu
setts prohibiting ocean freighters from
throwing overboard carcasses of dead
lire stock near the American coast. Sec
retary McAdoo arranged a conference to
be held early next week among the const
guard, Ufa savers along the New Jersey
coaat and offlclala of th coast resorts off
which sharks have been alghted. The
meeting will probably be held at Aabury
Park. Meanwnlle tne coaat guard ser
rlce arranged yeaterday to take up ac
tive direction of the efforts to rid the
north Atlantic coast of the menace that
has cleured ao many beaches of bathers.
One Canght Near Keyport.
Among the sharka captured yesterday
was one four feet long that was hooked
only fourteen miles from tho Battery
the nearest thus far to Manhattan that
one of the brutes has ventured. This
blue shark was caught by Dr. Peter
Dressl and Gum Kretx, two fishermen or
Prince's Bav. Btaten Island, who set out
In their forty foot motor boat yesterday
.m,rA h. witiira nt Matawan In quest
of shark. They baited a heavy hook and
line with weakflsh and wore rewarneo
four miles from Keyport. N. J. The
shark weighed 140 pounds and urew
several hundred curious niaicn
to Prince's Hay last evening.
Taul Tarnow's net caught another one
yesterday morning near Atlantic High
lands and nlmost at the apot where he
and his men and their pound net cap
tured the one the day before that was
killed and brought to Fulton Market,
New Tork. Tarnow'a first prisoner was
about 7 feet long; his second was even
At Long Branch an eight foot shark
waa caught In a net, and from Olen
Cove, U L. the killing of a aeven foot
shark after a twenty minute battle was
reported by B. W. Jewett. Jr.. of Mount
Vernon, who aald that hundreds of
sharka are schooling througli Long Isl
and Bound. He reported that the one he
killed waa in a shoal with others ami
that he circled around with his boat,
threw In his net and got one entangled
In It The ahark leaped, dived, swam
under the boat and fought with all its
might and main until Jewett maimed It
with an aae.
Heported
at Other Places.
N. J.. where a ahark
At Matawan.
killed Watson Stanley Fisher nnd Lester
Stlllwell on Wednesday, none of the
monsters was reported to have been
seen yesterday, although searching par
ties marched the banks of Matawan
Creek all day long, full of the zest of
the hunt and mindful of the fluii re
wards which were announced yesterday
in circulars distributed freely. The
Mayor and the Council will pay that
amount for each ahark caught.
But If Matawan could report no oh
scrvatlons of sharks, other places could
and did. A partial .1st of them Is llyram
Shore, Conn., one shark aeen ; Stnmford,
Conn., four or five sharks seen : Osslnlng,
N. V., six : Larchmont, N. Y., a school ;
Fire Island, two enormous ones; Key
port. N. J.. one; Ulen Cove, a school, and
off Virginia, three.
Home of these reports came from men
whose experience enablss them to know a
shark when they see It, as, for example,
Capt, Hill of the steamship Finland, ar
riving here from Liverpool yesterday,
who said he sighted two of large else oft
Fire Island; Capt. A. M. .Strong of the
steamship Callfornlan. who reported lit
Newport News, Va that he had sighted
a shark about six or seven feet long In
Chesapeake Hay off Oceanvlew iind a
few miles from Fortress Monroe and Old
I'olnt, and Capt. Jensen of the Norwegian
steamship Mayella, who told of seeing
two sharks, eight and six feet long re
spectively, about four miles east of Cape
Henry lightship.
Wiring; On llnthlng Grounds,
The men who sighted the school nt'both officers phyMcally disannulled for
Lnrchmont were Krnest Anderson nnd
John Davidson of Larchmont and John
Krlrkson of Hnlstead Manor, .Mamnro
neck, who were tlshlng off the larch
mont breukwnter and having good luck
nt It until sharks emtio gobbling up the
blacklist! they were after and threshing
about In the water. This news spread
ing, n movement was started by M. ,
Hchlnaal, Theodore A. II, Welnx, Kdward
O. Unlit, Clifton Crawford and Mary
Plckford to make preparations for the
stretching of a heavy wire netting across
Horseshoe Harbor, the bathing grounds.
From flreenwlch, Conn, wind came
last night tlwit bathing nt Island Beach,
as wall as at 1 1 ye, had received a setback
owing to the talk of sharks cu In the
local waters there. At Stamford boat
men aald they saw four or live sharks off
Collendar's Point.
While the New Jersey folk were pa
trolling Matawan Creek and other watara
the funerals of the fltlllwell boy and of
Flahtaiwere held yesterday .afternoon.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
If this copy of The Sun does not contain the pic
torial section, it is because wo didn't have enough of
them to go around.
The circulation of The Sun is leaping forward at
such an unheard of pace it has been impossible to
gauge the demand as early in the week as is necessary
to produce the right number of pictorial supplements,
which must be printed several days in advance of the
date of issue.
Apart from the picture section, every copy of The
Sun to-day has the news, the Sun editorials and many
very worth while departments and articles, together
with a great sporting section. We hope by another
week to have this Sunday newspaper problem so in
hand that all copies of the paper will be complete.
FRANK A. MUNSEY.
FINDS GASOLENE FRAUD
THROUGH PADDED BILL1
Commissioner Hartigan Will
Conduct Campaign Against
Dishonest Chauffeurs.
i
Commissioner Joseph Hartigan of the,
Uurenu of Weights and Measures learned j
csterday that chauffeurs sometimes I
j theat Jhelr employers through fraudulent
gasoiene purcnass. aii inspector under ' nun in nc its president A man of bri
ttle commlloner. disguised as a rhanf- , XM achievements and striking perMonn!-
feur visited u kiii.mIv station In 1 ifiv. ' Mr ,"r,"' started In nt on... In his
reur. Melted u siip.ilj station m J-ira- ramp.,!,,,, In build up the Nickel I'i.ite
ette street, bought seven gallons of a The road will nurue a nollrv nf ex.
olene and, it Is aliened, received a bill for
ten gallons when he only paid for seven.
Commissioner Hartigan promptly
caused the arrest of the salesman, George
Collin, who was held in 1100 ball In the
Tombs court. Commissioner Ilartlg.in
then announced that he Is going to con-
duct a campaign against dishonest deal-
ers In a-asolene
" " ;
BACK FROM A TRIPLE TOMB.
Having- Connted film I) en it Flash
ing Palls to lleeognlse llnllernn.
After having been thrice reported
dead. Kdward Halleran, who was well
known In Flushing about two decades
ago, drifted back to the home of his
former associates yesterday He was
one of the most popular young men of
the town when he suddenly went away
"I wonder what ever happened to I'd
die Halleran," he advanced by way of
Introducing the subject In a resort he
,a,j visited occasionally in his youth,
-oh, Kddln's dead." remarked a Us
(rller t, a matter of fact way
Well, he is far from being a dead
one. I'm Eddie Halleran," the stranger
announced.
SIXTY-NINTH NOT HUNGRY.
Men Penr Cleveland llepnrt Thnt
Fond Was l.nplilna.
St Loris, Mo., July IS. The non-c itn
missioned officers nnd men of the Slxty
Xlnth New York Infantry, In a letter to
the Associated Preys here to-day. deny
reports that prior to their arrival at
Cleveland they had been without food for
thirty-six hours.
"Our rommleaary department, under
the commnnd of Lieut. ReMy," the letter
states, "had labored both day nnd night
In a cramped, overheated box car to
take care of the feeding of nearly "00
men, 300 of whom belonged to other units
accompanying us, the Fourteenth and
Twenty-third New York Infantry of
Brooklyn and the First Cavalry of lit lea,
N. V
"It Is unjust, to s.y the lenst, to Lieut.
Iteldv and bl command tn have such a
report given credence. We desire to state
that out meals nre being served to us
regularly and In a sufficient cpimtlty to
satisfy our appetites."
BAKER BEGINS INQUIRY.
Starts liMestlMHtlon of I'harse
I nBt Food for tiaard.
of
Wahiiini.ton, July
IS. -An Inx.Htlga-
Hull of tho conditions undei which Na
tlonal (lunrdsmen have liter, tn rtpnrtei!
to the Mexican border, lncludln.irges
of unfit food and Inadequate tri.'vj'aclll
ties, lias been Instituted by the Wur De
partment In response to tho Mooro reso
lution passed by the House, calling upon
Secretary Maker for the facts.
Departmental commanders have been
instructed to make special re-ports, al
though otllclnls said to-jiight the rcgulur
reports already In baud showed Hint
never before In the nation's history had
troops been moved under such comfort
able and favorable conditions.
SCOTT HAS C0NLEY REPORT.
Wood Sends Finding; of Nurueon
Who llejeele.l II I tit nnd I'hctan.
Washington, July IS. - MaJor-!en.
Pcott, Chief of Staff, lo-.lay received
Mnjor-flrn. Wood's report regarding the
mustering out of Col Conley and L'eut.
Col. Phel.tn of the Sixty-ninth New York
1 Infantry. The report contains the state
ment .if th.i mtlltarv surgeon who found
service
Action will not be taken on the report
until Monday.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SECTIONS, AS FOLLOWS:
Ft RSI General Newi, Automobiles . . 1
SEC0SD -Sporting, Kenneli
THIRD Newt of the Retort, Paihioni, Real Eitate.Drama, Schooli, Gardens.
FOURTH -Pictorial Magazine
FIFTH Special Feature Section . . . ,
SIXTH Editorial, Foreign, Booki, Queries, Financial, Problem, Chen ,
Total
Win or neieiJtalcrs mAe ifo not rtttt 11 of Own sections uill conftr a Jam
m "Th Sun" ky ntlifyini iHt Publication Diputmtnt t anct hy tht phnns
(HOC Busman) and mitttnt uctiom mill h promptly forxtariti if postlhli.
FORMER BLACKSMITH
RAILROAD PRESIDENT
j. I. J. Hornet, New Head of
; Nickel Plate, Once Worked
nt Anvil.
Ci.KVKi.ANt, Ohio. July 1.1 From t-
rind boy to railroad provident surni up
!!", r"n'",l''rnl'ro''1 "'''''r of John J
tin- newly organised '.Nickel Plate itnll'-
paiislon," he s.;itil "It wn the cre.it i
elhllltles along this line that led ni to
accept the portion. My first duties will
tie to make a complete Inspection of tile
road nnd Its equipment."
hen they bought the Xeiv York
noioings in me .mckcI riate and
'' a , 1 von f,"1 ?' ' ' M ' v"n
f-werlngen. Cleveland capitalists, an-
nounced their intention to build up the
roan, ami in pursuance or this pulley
they lifted Mr Ilernet from thf vice
presidency of the New York Central to
head of the ieorganlr.i.l road
When Mr. licrnct went to work as j
loy of IS be ran errands until lie de
cided to learn tho trade of a haokmilth
nt Karnliam, N. Y near his birthplace.
While learning his trade the lure nf the
railroad gripped hlai and he stuill.il
telegraphy. When he had mastered It
suftlclently to be able to send and receive
accurately he entered the service of the
Lake Shore and Michigan Southern. Ills
rife after thai was meteoric.
The Van Swuriiigens are planning to
put the Nickel Plate on ;i par with the
best roads In the country, and a subur
ban system tn furnlih rapid transit Is
alieady plaiimd.
i. P Van Swrrlnseii was made chair
man of the board of directors William
II t'annlrr, whom .Mr. Meruit replacesas
head nf Ihe Nicki 1 Plate, will be retained
as president of the Chicago and State
Line ltallrn id, a part of the Nl kel I'lite
main line, ten nilli s long, from the In
dlnna State line to Chicago
66,000 VOLTS FAIL TO KILL.
Ilrixlnl, Ciiiiii,, Man Itecnters From
Terrific HhoeL.
HAiiTroiui, Colin, July If.. Francis P
Mill uf Hrlstnl i reeoerlni to-night
from the effects nf having Cr,,ono vnlts
of electricity course through his body
The ihxlelan who ale attefndlng him
said tn-uiht his case was one of th.
most remarkable ever reported. Hill
was on the innf of a power lioue look
ing over the damage done tn the wiring
system by yesterday's storm when he
accidentally made a contact with the
high tension distributing frame, through
which Cti.nno volts ,,f alternating current
flowed. Most of his body Is as black as
Jet as a nsult of the electric shod;
KENTUCKY GUARDS UNCLOTHED
Mnn Barefooted unit Officers l
lllive In Send Them Home.
Lbxiniiton, Ky . July If. - Because the
1 Culled States i.overnmcnt only Is
, sued orders that blanket and canteen
be Issued each soldier enlisting In Ken-
tucK National liuard more than a
thousand men at Port Thomas mo
bilisation camp are tn-nlght without
clothing,
Many nf them are even barefooted
The) are men whn ha.e I n rejected
for membership in the gunid because
of physlcul unlltness, and their niheers,
being held personally responsible for
their equipment tn tho (Ifiverninent, re
fuse to allow them to wear unlfoiins out
of camp. Some may have tn go home
wearing pajamas ami blankets. If of.
tlcci'H who accepted men lime to pay
transportation charges they will have to
stand thousands of dollars u personal
expenditure.
$250,000 PRIZE FOR NEW HAND.
I'nulWll surnteiil Society Offers II
for Ileal Artlflelnl Device.
Sperm fn'ife licpntrh In Tne Si s.
ItONPON, July IS. Tho National Sur
gical Society has received a gift of fso,.
HOD (I'.'riil.non) to be offered as a prize
for the Inventor of the best artlllclal
hand,
Competitors must present mutilated
persons whn have tu-fd the Inventions:
six months.
I'agsa.
12
8
12
8
12
60
PRE
BACK TO SING SING
FOR OSBORNE FETE
Train load of Reformed Pris
oners to See Warden Take
Office Again.
RADICAL WORK PLANNED
Psychiatrist to Study Convicts
With View to Indivitliinl
Treatment.
Former prisoner nf Sing Sing actually
starting back to the prison of their own
volition by the doaetis will be the un
wonted spectacle around the (Irani! Cen
tral Stntlnn concourse when n train for
'Osslnlng pulls nut at i:lf o'clock P. M.
to-day Thomas Mott Osborne's "hoys,"
as he calls his King Sing alumni who now
are making good here, want to be lined
up at the Sing Sing prbion gales when
Mr. Osborne, completely vindicated of
the charges lodged against him by pris
oners, motors In about 2 o'clock this af
terniMin to resumn his old Job of warden
The brass will crnsli and the trumpets
will biay Inside the prison yard then, fol
lowing which I hi re will be a procession
toward n speakers' stHtid In the assembly
hall And then the nfternoon will be
given over to sieechee by Mr. Osborne,
Piof George V Klrehwey, the retiring
warden, and by vl.dtors and members of
the Mutual Welfare League.
One of the ilrst sweeping innovations
which Mr Osborne will institute In Sing
Sing immediately following his reinstate
ment as watden will tie. It was announced
authoritatively . esterdny. the Instnlla
Hon of a complete psycnonathle clinic
wherein oil prisoners, as well as new ar
rivals, will undergo thorough mental ex
aminations. This clinic, which will be
the Ilrst established In the I'nlted States,
will have for one of Its objects the sep
aration of the feeble minded and men
tally disabled pri.som rs ftom the normal
group.
The llockefeller Foundation has con
tributed tho miMiey fur the psychiatric
work of the clinic. At its head will be
Dr. Bernard Olueck, a specialist In men
tal dleense.1 well knov.ii lo psychiatrists,
wlio will become resident psychiatrist,
with a staff of assistants to help him
In the work of separating prisoner men
tally Incapable of self-government from
those who arc mmtnlly fit to become
members of such an organization as the
Mutual Welfare League
The new clinic. It Is- lmpd by Mr Oh
borne and hi" euppoitore. Is but the fore
runner of a plnti which Ml Osborne now
Is working on In cooperating with the
National Committee on Prisons to turn
Sing Slr.g Into a gieat receptive station
wheie prisoners can be observed, classi
fied and then placed hi the hands of
ep.rtB to receive medical treatment nnd
ndAldiia; naming which their particu
lar eases demand
Money enough t , K(ep the clln.cal
work going ftr five .is has been ob
tained l.treili through the Committee of
So.-la! H.MjIene, of which Mrs. Helen
li.irtlev Jiviikms l.s chairman Dr. Wal
I' r James, president or th. New' Yrk
Academy of .Medicine. Ims been .'tinted
as saylm that the new- clinic Is the
toieiiiost ste1 which any State has yet
taken In the solution of the ex er present
penal problem
CUP FOR KIRCHWEY
Prlsiiii ItcMnncrs Moot In Ilia
lluynr on l.eulsubn llstntc.
Minsi kv. N. Y . July IS Many fi lends
of prison ffnrni galh.rnl lo-dav on the
veranda of 1 leatheidale Farm,' Adnlph
I.ewlsohn's ciiiiiitry home, for a meet
ing In honoi f itenrge W Klnhwei.
retiring warden of sing teing. Mr.
I. ewl-ohn. In In half .,f the National
l oinnilltec on Prisons, of which he Is
president, handed ir. Klrehwey a loving
cup and said to him
"You deserve credit and the apprecia
tion of ur fellow men for vour devo
tion and self-sacrlllce In taking over the
work of Watden Oehome while he could
not attend to It himself All who are
Intensted in the welfare of society will
rejoice that conspiracy and Injustice
have fulled and righteousness ami de
cency hae pievalUd,"
lieclting his experiences as warden.
Thomas Mott Osborne said that he had
had a fair tiial for the Ilrst six months,
after which time 'the Superintendent of
Prisons' otllce did everything ilaniniilJe
vim can think of in dlscr. dlt me befote
the pvillc and the prisoners."
"I knew all the time," he added, "thev
were framlnr up charges ngalnst me
I knew what kind of charges thev were
plotting, nnd I t ild the (lovernor about
it, nnd he laughed, sajlng It was In
ci edible."
He credited Mr Klrehwey with hav
ing tackled "the toughest Job I ever
knew," and nf having made a remiik
utile success of t He also said. "It
wns n rotten Job to step Into Slug sing
When (inv Whitman asked me how I
liked It I told him everything was so
utterly damnable that anything one did
wns hound to Improve conditions."
Mr Klrehwey said he would like to
repeat his six months nt the prison, but
"would not do It nt the price of keeping
Tom Brown one day out of his king
dom" Other sjicakeis were Miss Kath
arine B, Dnvls nnd the Ilov Dr. James
II. Darlington, Bishop of Harrlsburg
Before the i ei'eptloii, Mr Lewlsohn gava
u luncheon for Dr Klrehwey, Warden
iVlmrtie, Dr. II Slngg Whltlu and otherl
of the National Committee on Prisons,
MRS. MARSHALL IN SUBMARINE.
Wife nf Vice-President Inspects
Deiitsehliinil nt llnlttniore,
lUi.TiMoitt:. July 1R Mrs, Thomas It,
Marshall, wife of the Vice-President, ys
Ited the (lei man submarine Deutschlaud
yesterday and was shown through the
.onsoI by Capt. lllnsch of the Herman
steamship Neckar. Capt lllnsch said
Mrs. Marshall wns the tlret woman tn go
below dsflt slum the Dcutschlnnd arrived
In American waters.
The temperature of the Interior of the
submarine was about lin degrees while
Mrs. Marshall was exploring It, She
expressed amazement at almost every
turn.
"It Is wonderful, marvelloua; It Is Im
possible for me to express my feelings,"
she said after leaving the boat.
FOES OF PEACE HAY
FORCE OUT HOLLYEG
Imperial Chancellor (Joes to
See Kaiser Before Meeting
Reichstag Leaders.
NATION AGAINST HIM
Ills Opposition to Submarine
Warfare Stirred Deep
Resentment.
I.ONOON, July IS. The conference h
tween the rjermnn Chancellor, Pr, on
Bethmann-llollweg, nnd the political
lenders of the Itelrhstng has been ad
journed to, Monday, says an Kxchnnue
Agency despatch fiom Amsterdam, so
that the Chancellor may first have nn
audience with Kmpemr William at Im
perial heitdiiuartem.
The result of his negotiations with tho
lenders of the Itelchstag, the despatch
adds, Is awaited with Interest throughout
flermany, as It Is supposed the Chan
cellor will la- f .r ed either lo define his
peace imlloy or to retire.
The controwTsy bet ween Chancellor
von Hethmnnii-llollweg nnd a certain
section of the Itelchstag has been one of
Ion-; duration, having begun soon after
the sinking of the Lusltaiila.
The Chancellor took a stand against
the continuance of submarine warfare
soon nfter the first American notes to
(lermany on the subject were iccelved
He was npptx.d by almost the entire
German public and most of the memb.-rs
of the Itelchstag,
The basis of the protests of Ihe Chan
cellor against Ihe submarine warfare lay
In the fact that If tile Pulled State's
rliould become involved In the war In
support of the rights of neutral nations
Germany would not be able to conclude
an early peace, which. It s said. Is, In the
Chancellors opinion, the only way In
which Germany could gain In r ends. He
believed that Ihe benefit derived 7iy Ger
many frnm the prosecutinn of the sub
marine war was extremely little In com
parison with the result of a break with
tile I'nlted States.
By this stand, vthlch teeulted In the
smoothing of the relations between Ger
many and the Cnlted States, he Incufreil
the enmity of the Conservatives, as well
as the followers of Admiral von Tir
pltr. the Navy League mid part of the
National Liberals He was assailed as
n weakling and was called tho "vacillat
ing Chancellor" His statements that
Germany does not wlh to annex Bel
glum and northern France, us well as
other moderate expressions concerning
peace, also made enemies for him In
G( rm.il
Dr von Betl.mann-llollweg has twice
announced In the Itelchstag that Ger
many Is prepared tn consider peace
terms and in private Interviews he lias
assetted that the blame for the con
tinuance of the war lies with Great
Britain and her allies Many demands
have been niade by his enemies In Ger
many for a frank statement of his
views on peace terms.
A Loudon despatch of July ir. said
that the Chancellor was quoted In the
.V.o.Meiificir .1 llgeinriur i-ilntui as say
Ing that the terms of peace must In
clude measure to prevent an attack on
Germmy Ootn France or Belgium, the
creation of Poland as a buffer Stale
and assurances that after the war Ger
man trade would be permitted to develop
without hindrance Apparently this
statement has failed to satisfy his
enemies,
PEACE PROPAGANDA OX.
cries of MeetliiHs Hiion In Itegln
In Germany.
Lon'Pon Julv I" The Gorman Na
tional Committee which ireently was
organized under tin presidency of Prlnco
von Wede for the purpose of preparing
the minds of the German people for "an
honorable peace," will soon begin Its
labors with a series of meetings In vari
ous towns In Germany
Accoidlng to Pouter's correspondent nt
Amsterdam, the committee Is regarded
with profound distrust by the Pan-Germans.
The Itrrlinrr Titgrblntt says flfty
spoakeis. Inducing politician, and pro',
fessors of the most varied views, will
deliver addresses. Prof. Adolf Ilnr
nack will speak in Berlin
40 CLEAR DAYS AHEAD MAYBE.
Utilities M, Ithlii'a Dili BrcMlU
Old Holler.
Those who look forward to a summer
of good outdoor sport may expect at
least foity clear days for it in the.
Immediate future If there l anything :
In the old belief that a rainless s
Swlthln's d.iv means that a period of
that l.ngth will follow without showeif
For .v.sterday was the saint's d.iv, nnd
tho noi-est Appioach to rain was an
occasional heavy cloud that could .
scarcely be called threatening.
EXPECT 1,000,000 "DRY" VOTES.
Prohibitionist llollrte I'nrly Will
Ilea! Socialists This Year.
St Papi., Minn,, July lS.--Coni1dent
they will outrank Ihe Socialists In No
vember nnd become th third political
party of the country, representatives of
"progressive" elements In the Prohibition
organization who arrived in St. I'.iul to.
day for next week's national con
vention announced their plans for a
$1,000,1100 campaign whVh they expect
will net their ticket l.fliiu.nnn votes.
C. W. MORSE IN SHIP DEALS.
M lie nt Severn! Million broad fur
e 1,1 lira.
The American liner St, liuls, with ISO
cabin passengers, nrilved from l.iwrpio;
last evening. Among the p iciit;oix
were Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. .Mme.
Mr. Morse has been In Lnndoi lor
several weeks on business for the Pnltei!
Stales Steamship Coinpiijy. of whi 'h In
Is president. He raid he had Invested
several million doMari. In -h.ir'eilig and
buying steamers which will ,dy betvvien
Loudon mid Aichaligel, Loudon mid
South Africa, Catdlff and Medtti rr.ine.in
polls and between American an. Lug
lli pons, (
BRITISH SMASH
WAYUPTOTHIRD
GERMAN LINES
Make Advance on Front of
Four Miles and Hold
All Gains.
CAVALRY HURLED
INTO ACTION AGAIN
Crack Indian Regiment
Cuts Through Teuton
Forces.
MOONLIGHT CHAKGK
ASTOIWPS GERMANS
Hn iff "S Men Push Through
Ti'om-s Wood in Middle
of thf Nijrlit.
Lii.spon, July is. The British often
lve was continued to-day nnd the ad
j vance of their thrust renche.l the third
' line nf tho German defences north of
till Sotntlle.
All reports from the battle front
.isree that the British jilnns have been
1 well worked out and executed. There
nre nn repotts of fallute of the re
serves to arrive, which turned the
buttle of Loos from victory Into a
Kistly stalemate, nor nf n shortage of
supplies, or strategic errors.
The British forces held nil the
ground gained in Friday's advance and
took tvvu or three morn small sectors
of trinchoM in the Herman second
line. They captured t,e whole of Del
vllie Wood nnd repulsed n strong
counter attack.
Berlin officially admits that Gen. fllr
Douglas Halg's forces hnve gained
some ground nnd that they have occu
pied Trones Wood. British losses In
the attack nre. described by Merlin aa
being "most severe." The Hermans re
port the attack has been sjemmrd, but
sny the fighting continues. The Her
man resistance has liven stubborn, hut
the British have been nble. thus far, to
retain tho positions won,
Hon. Ilnlg's men, In pushing tha
Gei ina ih hack to their third line of de
fence, have advanced four miles be
yond tho original Herman lines as they
existed at th'e beginning of the offen
sive on July 1 i tho Fricnurt-Mametg
sector.
U.IIIMI Geriniiiisi Captured.
The force of the renewed British
drive is shown not only in the ground
gained but In the number of prisoners
raptured. London reports the taking;
of more than 2,ooo Hermans within the
past twenty-four hours, the totnl slnca
the start of the offensive now being
In excess of 10.0(111.
Progress on the British front rontlnuea
most satisfactory, says Iteutcr's corre
spondent at British headquarters tn
France, who adds that It Is reported the
British Irive captured High Wood and
are pushlty on toward Poxteres. Del
vllle Wood has been taken by the South
Afilivtn troops,
In the course of the operations, the
coiiespondeiit adds, detachments of the
Uranism Guards mid the Decran Horse
( crack Indian cavalry command) went
Into action, They charge! a enemy po
sition, killing sixteen and rnpturing thirty-four
The operation was small, bu
It was Ihe first time that cavalry was
eiuplo.ved ns such since the early stages,
of the wiy.
After the breach was mide in the
second Gerinic Pne esterdny the cav
alry for tin ' ' time had the reward
of their ..!.. .' since trench war
fare began, Tli ueut straight in the
face of the G. it mans, who were farming
a new defence line Isdween the strong
points of High Wood and Delvllle Wood,
which the British Infantry was attack
ing 'nvalr In motion.
It was 7:30 In the evening when they
rode forth from the eover where they
were awaiting orders to cross the fields,
after their patrols had felt the way.
with clear going nhead, and behind
them the demolished trenches of tha
first nnd second linos and an aiea of
shell holes, which made difficult their
progress Infantrymen who wltnasaed
the sight could hardly believe their eyes.
Vhrit Germans with automatic rifles,
which are practically portable machine
guns, bliied from a wheat field, the
Dragoon I'.u.nds set their lancea and
ohm god, wheeled ntid lisle hack througli
them, as was done In the Napoleonic
wars, and, for the llrM time In eighteen
months of continuous warfare on the
western front, with Its continuous
bayoncttlng. bombing, gassing nr.d shell
ing, an mem, wns impaled from a
hoise.
The surviving Gnim.ms, whe had not
forgotteh their drill, tried to receive the
horsemen In their sweep buck with the
bayonet. At another isdnt, as the
cavalry swept across the wheal fields
thf Hermans were astounded n by an
nppatltlon
The c.iv.iliy vniil ahead until they
found the liifanti.v had not yet taken
De.'vllle Wivciaud High WooI, and were
signalled to l, i.l back and dig In until re
llrvod bv the liif.intr They brought
back mole than thirty prisoners.
Avlntor Help In Charge.
t one time wlv n a machine gun waa
troubling them a British swlator It a
monoplane, flying at a height of (OS feat,
circled four times as he poured ttje con
tents uf his machine gun Into th Her
mans. m division, whose toss was only one
mail In Ihe capture of a aectlon of the
second line on Its front, waa not so happy
as the cavalrymen, who at last had aeen
action.
In describing yesterday's Infantrv
lighting a correspondent writes
"At the end of a long da.v nVj'h "Ion
