THE ARIZONA BE PUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
xxA,yn sONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JULY 16, 1916
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
20 PAGES
20 PAGES
.VOL. XXVII, NO. 58
Si AT III
ADD BEK
ASSES
BIT
eUtr IX tU aUk
RD
NE
MAM
1
GENERAL HAtG'S FORGES PISH
BACK THE GERMAN LINES AND
, WE 2.000 IRE PRISONERS
-
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
British forces now have reached the third line ov the German defenses
north of the Somme and have advanced four miles since the beginning of the
present offensive on July 1.
Berlin officially admits that General Haig's forces have gained some
ground and that they have occupied the Trones wood. British losses in the
attack are described by Berlin as being "most severe." The Germans claim
the attack has been stemmed but say the fighting continues.
In addition to pushing back the German lines, the British have captured
2000 more prisoners. The German resistance has been stubborn but the Bri
tish have been able, thus var, to retain the positions attained.
On tho Russian front the most intense fighting is taking place near
Baranovichi, while the situation on the Stokhod river remains unchanged. The
villaae of Skrobowa has been the scene of desperate encounters, both Petro-
arad and Berlin announce. The Russian war office details the repulse of
three German attacks against the village, after which the Russians attacked
and aained new positions.
Berlin claims the recapture of parts oi the positions lost to the Russians
in the Skrobowa region early in July. In addition, Prince Leopold's forces
took 1500 prisoners.
Northwest of Fredenchstedt the Germans have repulsed Kussian attacks
while the Russians assert they repulsed a German offensive southeast of Riga.
In Galicia near Delatyn, Vienna claims the repulse of Russian vanguards
which attempted to enter the town, as well as the failure of an attack against
the Austrians southwest of the town.
The Russian forces continue their advance west of Erzerum and now are
within ten miles of Baiburt.
Petrograd also reports successful fighting at other points along the line,
specially in the region of the Mush.
Italian troops have taken strong Austrian positions at the head of the
Posina valley and stopped violent attempts to recapture them. Rome declares
that Italian successes in the Tofana region, following the capture of Monte
Castelletto, have been "very marked."
On the sea there have been additional successes for the centra powers.
A German submarine a Berlin admiralty statement says, has destroyed a
British auxiliary cruiser, about 7000 tons, in the North sea. Off the English loading of the cargo for the return tri
coast German submarines have sunk three British patrol boats. An Austrian
submarine has sunk an Italian destroyer.
Arizona Soldiers' Detailed to Patrol Border at Naco
ORPET NOT GUILTY OF SLAYING LAMBERT GIRL PI I tF. .
1 LIS U LLtS
i NO WORD FROM THE ,
PRESIDENTIAL YACHT I
I I
WASHINGTON, July l.". Lute
tonight the White House had re-
wived no word since afternoon I
from the naval yacht Mayflower,
i cruising in Lower Chesapeake bay
with the president and Mrs. Wilson
on hoard for a week end trip. The j
yacht was near Tangier Sound
when the last wireless messages I
were exchanged. It is probable j
that the president will land tomor-
row at some point on the bay of
Hampton Koads. He expects to
return to Washington early Mon
! day.
LOADING OF THE
DEUTSCHLAND IS
HALTED ERR DAY
JURY ACQUITS
LAD OF MURDER
IN FIVE HOURS
MORE REFUGEES FROM
MEXICAN WEST COAST
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
luminals. ue paiu a. inajuiiiy ul Hie
SAN D1KGO, July 15. Fifty-five refugees had left Mexico at the urgent
more refugees, including many em- request of American representatives
ployes of the Southern Pacific Rail- following the recent acute situation be-
road of Mexico, arrived here today on ', tween the two republics.
the naval collier Nanshan from Guay- I .1. B. Finley, assistant general super-
mas and La Paz. With those who ar- intendent of the Mexican division of
rived yesterday on the steamer Cen- the Southern Pacific, one of the ar
tralia, a total of eighty have reached rrivals, said he and most of his re
this port from Mexican points in two maining employes at Empalme, near
E
Guaymas, had been
off shore since
the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE, Md., July 15-
The
Cavalry Makes
Heroic Charge
at the Germansl
'British Forces
Take More Small
Trench Sectors
i Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BRITISH FRONT IN FRANCE, July
13 (Via Ixindon) After the breach
was made in the second German line,
yesterday cavalry detachments, Eng
lish and Indian, for the first time had
the reward of their year's wait sin;-e
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WAL'KEGAN, July ir. William Or
pet. the lniversity of Wisconsin stu
dent charged with murdering Marion
Lambert, a high school girl and his
former sweetheart, was found not
guilty tonight by a jury in Judge Don
nelly's court after five hours delibera
tion Til inrv retired nt V Tilt o'rlork
and at nix o'clock Its members were ; Max Mark!'' a mining man and hotel i there who will be able to keep a check
taken to dinner at a boarding house i I,r")rU t"r at Hermosillo. declared that ' on thr operation so that a claim can
lo later ue presented to ine .uexican gov-
days.
I A number of mining men and mer- I June 13, having gone aboard
I chants were in the party. Mrs. Frank i cruiser Cleveland at Guaymas.
W. Moore, wife of the British vice j "The railway was still being oper
i consul at La Paz, her four children j ated mostly by the military authorities
i and governess were among the pas- i who employed Mexicans for the pur-
sengers on the Nanshan. pose," said Finley. "We still have men Northwestern Sonora.
Arrivals from the south
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, July 13. Adolfo de la
Huerta, governor of Sonora, and Gen
eral P. Elias Calles, military com
mander of the state, conferred in Agua
Prieta, opposite Douglas, today on mat
ters of state policy, but with what
result was not announced. It is un
derstood that de la Huerta will leave
late Sunday or early Monday for his
headquarters in Nogales.
General Calles is completing arranga
ments for the transfer of his head
quarters to Nogales July 20. On his
departure General Arnulfo Gomez will
become comamnder of the troop In
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July 18. The British
forces have held all the ground gained
in Friday's advance and taken two or
three or more small sectors of trenches
in the German second line. This is the
gist of Saturday's news from the front
irencn wariare uegan. i ney went ln France.'
straight fin the face of the Germans, ; Two thousand prisoners were .cap
who are forming a new defense line tured in the last advance and at one
between the strong points of High point the British are four miles beyond
woods and Delville wood which the the German first line which they
British infantry was attacking. crossed thirteen days ago. In all, ten
It was seven o'clock in the evening thousand prisoners and quantities of
n they rode forth from the cover war material have fallen into British
where they were awaiting orders to , hands.
toss the fields arter their patrols had j AH tidings from the front from for
feit their way, with clear going ahead. I respondents and wounded agree that
and behind them the demolished j the British plans have been well worked
trenches of the first and second lines j out and executed. There are no reports
and an area of shell holes which made of failure of the reserves to arrive,
difficult their progress to their rende,- j which turned the battle at Loos from
vous. Infantrymen who witnessed the j victory into a costly stalemate or of
sight could hardly believe their eyes.: similar incidents; nor of strategic er-
Whon some Germans with automatic
rifles, which are virtually portable
machlnet guns, blazed from a wheat
field, the dragoons guards set their
lances and charged, wheeled and rode
hack through them as might have been
tlone in the Napoleonic war. Thus, for
the first time ln 18 months of contin
uous warfare on the western front
with Its continuous bayonetting, bomb-
(Continucd on Page Two)
rors or a shortage of supplies which
changed the Mesopotamian and Galii
poli campaigns into tragedies.
The cost in life of the British Httack
cannot yet be estimated. The officers'
casualty list issued tonight names 113
killed, 19 died of wounds, 136 wounded.
If! missing and believed killed, and 51
wounded and missing. Three-fourths
of the officers listed are second lieu-
(Continued on Page Two)
IE-PRESIDENT OF CHALMERS
COMPANY SUICIDES IN NEW YORK
' Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, July 13. Paul Smith,
vice president and general salesman
aper of the Chalmers Motor company
of Detroit, leaped from a window of
his room on the Tenth floor of the
Hotel Biltimore here today and was
crushed to death In the street below.
His physician, wife and friends at
tributed his uct to a complete ner
vcus tind .nt-ntal eollupve following
the successful completion of a busi
ness deal in this city said to have
Involved SMOO.000.
Smith who was 32 years old, came
to New York last .Monday. He com
plained to friends that he was ill, as
serting that he did not think he ever
would recover. He sent a telegram
yesterday to his wife urging her to
Join him here. She arrived this
morning and when she had turned
her hack for a moment to arrange
breakfast which had been served in
their rooms, Mr. Smith disappeared
through the window.
Mr. Smith was horn In Vermont.
H5 wits graduated from the Univer
sity of Illinois and practiced medi
cine a short time. He once was a
cowboy and worked later in the stock
yards at Kansas City. He started In
th automobile industry as a factory
hand in Detroit. He was connected
with the Stuclebaker, Lozier, Good
year nnd Metzger companies before
going with the Chalmers concern two
years ago. He is said to have dis
posed of 22,0(I0,00 worth of automo
Ir'c.s in one auction sale
After an investigation Coroner
Feinbeig asserted that he did not be
lieve the death or Mr. Smith was ac
cidental. The fact that there was a
four-foot ledge outside the window
I of the room occupied bv Mr. Smith
precluded the theory of an accident,
the coroner declared. No formal in
quest has been held.
of the German submarine merchant
man Deutschland was suspended late
to this afternoon and although a per
mit was obtained for work tomorrow
it was undecided tonight whether it
would be taken advantage of.
A second gang of stevedores was put
to work today loading the rubber that
is to be carried to Germany. It orig
inally whs intended to ship this com
modity in the bags in which it had
been packed but it was found this
would take up too much space. The
removal of the rubber from the bags
consequently will cause an unexpect
edly lengthening of the time for load
ing and it is considered imjirohuhle
that the Ieutsehl.-ind could get away
with a full cargo before Monday night.
No nickel so far has been loaded on
the submarine while apparently less
than 50 tons of rubber have been put
in the hold.
Captain Koenlg, the submarine's
commander, and Admiral Axel von
Eckerman. chief engineer of construc
tion of the Swedish navy were guests
o.' Mayor James H. Preston at dinner
tonight.
Captain Koenig- was this afternoon
presented with a handsome silver lov
ing cup for himself and crew by Mad
ame Christine Langenhan, a former
grand opera singer.
The cup is mounted on an ebony
base and beneath an American flag
there appears this Inscription:
"Presented to the conqueror of Eng
lish prestige on the seas and to the
commander of the first merchant sub
marine, the Deutschland, Captain Paul
Koenig. and the crew, in commemora
tion and appreciation of their services
by Christine I-angenhan, Royalopera
singer. July 13, 1!H5."
Captain Koenig was seen at a rail
road station before noon today which
led to a report that he had gone to
New York to see Ambassador Berns
torff. He appeared a few hours later
at the hotel where the cup presenta
tion took place.
A. Schumacher and Company, agents
of the North German Lloyd Comiwny,
announced today that positively no
mail would be sent on the Deutsch
land. The statement was necessitated
it was said, because of the fact that
the firm is being deluged with letters
from all over the United States with
requests that they be forwarded to
Germany on the submarine.
.... ........ i . . I f vtrv I'lin.Kii ier:i 1 ion inoun
wnere ; lev soent nan an nour. -
, , . . . . Americans In that district by Mexican eminent.
One hour later came the flash that a 1
verdict had been reached. Probably )
fifty persons were still waiting for It. j
irpet, who had taken his evening meal,
was sent for in bis cell. Judge Don
nelly, a cripple, who had been seated
in a chair on the court house lawn
chatting with the lawyers, made his
way painfully upstairs on a crutch.
The defendant as usual was seated
between his mother and Mrs. Edwin
Taylor, his landlady at Madison, when
the jury filed in.
Only one sound broke the stillness
with which for a few seconds: the ver
dict was received. It came from a
woman about 30 years old dressed in
black, w ho had attended every session
of the court. She made an inarticulate
sound something between a sob and a I
11 1 nm nnunn
ALL UN DMIU
COLLIER SAVED
AS SHIP SIS
1 FJ1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHARLESTON. S. C, j'uly 15 All
i.t tha 14-' men u-V,,. ...i
shriek. She had never explained heri,. ., " . . , ,
interest in the case except to say that ., . ,.
. .. i u ' . n I las', night on the South Carolina,
she was a friend of humanity. ,
coasi tere orougr.t to v.nariesion lo
I day by rescuing vessels. Many of
; them had minor bruises and four, in
Orpet was silent through excess of
emotion. He was barely able to return
tlm t,:iwl rluun ,if Hia altnrnpvn 11a
,.i.h h i,u.,h ,.r u r,w'i,r i.. j'l'idi'iK the chief tngineer of the ship
muttered a scarcely perceptible please
say dis
charged volunteer soldiers passing
through there at the rate of at least
one thousand daily, to take their
places in the working forces of various
mines in that district or return to their
ranches further south. The trains
which are bringing these Sonora militia
men are coming north loaded with
refugees who are returning to their
homes in the northern part of the state.
The number of Mexicans applying for
readmission into Arizona is increasing.
Few exclusions are being made by tha
immigration officers.
Preparations are being made by em
ployes of the Moctezuma Copper com
pany to reopen the property on a larga
scale Monday and the American em
ployes who have been refugees hero
I ror several weeks are expecting to re
Republican A. P. Leased Wire tUrn there that day, although no of-
NEW YORK, July 15. Federal ficial announcement has been made by
the management.
ALL CHILDREN
Fine enn
LLIIIIIIU UU I I II llll
to
don't."
He made his way to the Jurors and
shook their hands one by one, smiling
wanly but saying nothing.
Mrs. Orjiet did not lose her self
possession for a second. She received
the verdict as if it were a matter of
routine. She noted that a photographer
was trying to snap a picture of her son
and herself and warned him, mean
while shielding her own face with a
newspaper.
James H. Wilkerson, chief of coun
sel for the defense, was unable to keep
back the tears and they trickled from
his eyes while he, with his assistants,
Ralph F. Potter and Islie P. llantia,
were receiving congratulations. Mr.
Wilkerson stated that in his opinion
Orpet had been more than declared
not guilty.
."He was proved innocent." said Mr.
Wilkerson. "He is going home with
his mother now. Then he is going into
the country for a much needed rest
afiter the nerve-racking experience
SONG WRITER DIES
Republican A. P. Leaned Wire
SAN FRANCISCO. July 15. William
Burton. 67 years old. who was known
a generation ago as a song writr, died
In a hospital here today, a victim o
apoplexy. Barton, a successful con
tractor, took up song writing as a hob
by. "The Wild Man of Borneo" wa
one of his productions.
Castro Again Fails to Gain
Entrance to United States
hospital seriously
(Continued on Page Three)
were taken
injured.
The collier, a vessel of ll.liiii) tons
was I ound from Cljarleston for Gu
antnnamo. with a cargo of con I and
suoplies and had in addition to her
crew sixty murine recruits for the
navnl expeditions in Haiti and Santo
Domingo. She was battered by the
hurricane off the coast until her
rei koi ing was lost and when sho
finally went upon the beach fires
were raging on board.
Efforts of the tug Wellington and
the lighthouse tender Cypress le
sulted in the rescue of all of the
ship's company. The Cypress took
off the last 21 men early today just
before the collier broke in two and
began to go to pieces.
Stories of the fight against high
seas and heavy winds from about
three o'clock Friday afternoon until
after midnight when all on board the
Hector had been taken off. were tiVld
here tonight by men of her crew.
They were enthusiastic in their praise
at Captain Nelson and the crew of
health officials today began regula
ting interstate travel of children out
of New York in an effort to allay
alarm occasioned in other states by
the epidemic of infantile paralysis in
this city.
Dr. Charles E. Banks, senior sur
geon of the United States public
health service, announced that chil
dr?n leaving New York will be ex
amined and certificates of travel will a total of six miles.
The Fourth New Jersey infantry vis
ited Camp Harry J.-Jones east of the
city today, being the guests while there
of the Eighteenth infantry. The na
tional guardsmen inspected the camp of
the regulars, gathering information
which will'be of use to them in their
own camp. The regiment hiked from
and back to Camp Frederick Funston,
be issued to safeguard other states
from danger of the epidemic.
The band, of the Fourteenth infantry
serenaded the First Battalion, First
(Continued on Page Five)
City health officials welcomed the; Arizona lniantry, toaay, prior to the
federal surgeons in the hope that bv aeparture ot the guardsmen for .Naco.
providing neighboring states
with
reliable data the quarantine estab
lished against New Tork will be
lifted.
Watching on the Coast
PORTLAND, Ore.. July 15. Health
officers of the Pacific
and British Columbia
in a conference here to adopt meas
ures of uniform protection against
the possible entrance of infantile pa
ralysis. Tne United States public
health service and the railroads
serving the . Pacific coast pledged
theiq. cooperation.
The mfeting' was called by Dr.
David N. Roberts, Oregon state health
officer and representatives ot the
health offices of Caluifornia. Oregon.
twenty-nine miles west, for border
patrol duty.
One Mexican and four Yaqui Indians
were captured tonight by an outpost of
the Second Montana infantry as they
attempted to cross the border in a
heavy rainstorm. The five, who are
Slopes states ' uciu "eiu aoi CAauiiiiaiioii, jsitm uidi
United todav 1 loiinruy ueen empioyeu. in a.
local smeuer ana recently naving Deen
refused readmission to the United
States by customs officials, they at
tempted a secret crossing. 1
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, July 15. General
Clpriano Castro, former president of
Venezuela, who was admitted to the
United States in 19in. being detained
er of Immigration Byron II. Uhl as
serted that the charges against Gen
eral Cnstro wore the same as three
years ago, involving Moral turpitude.
Mr. Uhl explained that a special
by the immigration authorities fori hoard of inquiry in 1913 had ordered
six weeks on Ellis Island, again was General ''astro excluded from the
denied admission to this country to
day when he arrived on the steamer"
Vauhan from Port of Spuin, Trinidad
His detention was upon orders re
ceived from Washington, It was learn
ed tonight, (ieneral Castro was per
mitted to remain aboard the Vauhan
to await the outcome of a hearing of
the special hoard of inquiry tomor-
country ard that -the then secretary
of cemmerce and hibor had approved
this action. General Castro, however,
sued out, a writ of habeas Corpus ant'
was permitted to land.
The government appealed and, Mr.
Uhl said, General Cnstro, who had
been required to furnish a bond,
voluntarily left the country before the
row morning. Assistant Commission- appeal was heard by the higher court.
Murder Mystery ,
Probe Brings No
Definite Clues
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. JOSEPH, July 15 Twenty
hours alter the murder ' of Mrs.
Oscar McDaniel wife of the prosecut
ing attorney in her home, and the
afempted assassination of McDaniel,
the case tonight is as much a mys
tery as ever. A dozen or more sus
pects were arrested in the course of
th" day !t a'l were released.
The thecry has been abandoned that
the murder was only one step in a
plot for a wholesale jail delivery and
revenge upon the prosecuting attor
ney. A threatening; letter received
by McDaniel about two weeks ago
and the finding of a kit of tools to
day which tould be used for a jail
delivery Hppeared to bear this out.
It is now suspected by the officers
th.it the anonymous letter wa writ
ten inside the jail and a partner who
was in the jail on a charge of high
way robbery is believed by the polios
to know something about it. He and
several other prisoners were question
ed by the police today and it was
rumored that one of them supplied a
clew.
A telephone call which led McDaniel
down town last night and which af
terward proved to have been a decoy
to secure entrance to the house, of
fered opportunity for the murder.
As he was driving home and step
ped from his car to open his garae..?
door a shot was fired at him from be
hind the building. McDaniel who had
carried a gun since he began receiv-
inr threatening letters, returned the
fire.
Rushi.ig up stairs he found his wife
with her head crushed. Two chil
dren were asleep in an adjoining
rocm, not having been awakened.
1LISTAS DESERTING BECAUSE
UF SHORT OF
II T 1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHJAHUA CITY, July 13. J
Beltran, one or Villa's chief lieuten
ants and a participant in the masacre
of IS Americans at Santa Ysable,
Chihuahua last January was killed
in the engagement at Cero Blanco,
July 2, reports to General Jacinto
Trevino today indicated. These re
ports were supported by stories told
iipon their arrhal here by Villista
prisoners, who said that wh"n the
bandits reformed at Sbmbreret'llo.
Beltron wbs missing.
The prisoners said that Villa him
self was not present at Cerros Blanco,
the outlaw forces there being direct
ed oy Calt.xito Contreras. The ban-
dil chieftain, they said, being disap
pointed upon the evacuation of Ji
mi lie?, at his failure to capture ;srms
and ammunitions, left the command,
Roing to Hacienda Salaises, about 50
mik.s southwest. The Villistas addtd
that because of the shortage of am
munition only ten rounds was allow
ed each man in tne Ctrro Blanco en
gagements that following the fight
more than time hundred men desert
ed. .I'eneral Trevino rectivtd dispatch
es today from (ieneral AiataiH Ramos
commanding- the columns pursuing the
bandits, in which he announced that
he had the outlaws completely sur
rounded and expected to close in up
on tlitm shortly from 3 II sides. Con
tact can he expected in the vicinity
of F;osari' any time now, the dis
patch said.
Villa, from his encampment In the
bottoms of the Rio Florida, about
2' 0 miles soi.yh of here, has renewe
nis extorts to convert to nis cause
some of his former leaders, who hav
ing been amnestied, have been giver.
commands in the government army
General Trevino announced today.
Watching for Smugglers
COLUMBUS, July 15. Following
reports that Mexican smugglers have
been taking stock south across the
border west of Columbus, a cavalry
patrol and a detachment of customs
riders were sent from here tonight in
an effort to capture the band. One
report had it that the Mexicans are
affiliated with the band said to have
been operating south of the San Simon
valley along the Arizona-New Mexico
line, but military authorities expressed
belief that the reports are based on the
depredations of a few ordinary thieves.
Pursuing Murderers
WASHINGTON, July 15. First of
ficial information about an expedition
of American civilians into Mexico by
automobile in pursuit of the bandit
Valenzuetta, who murdered William
Parker and his bride near Hachita, X.
M., June 27, reached the war depart
ment tonight in a message from Gen
eral 1'ershing. Valenzuetta had es
caped to the mountains, but the pur-
General Trevino did not make public suers captured his wife and uncle and
brought them back across the American
border.
General Pershing did not say what
disposition has been made of the pris
oners. His dispatch follows:
"Have ascertained definitely that
about twenty-five Americans accom
panied by three Mexicans entered Mex
ico in the vicinity of Hachita. in pur-
the nunes of the prenerals to whom
the Villa communications were sent
but said that the letters had been
ti.rned over to him with the comment
that ."Villa was nc longer a patron
but a coyote that should be destroy
ed au quickly as pos-ible "
The letters also implored the aid of
the former Villistas in 'expelling- the
grinvoes "
(Continued on Page Two)
Villa Now Reported Seen
In Mapimi on June 26
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EAGLE PASS, Mcx. July 13.
Francisco Villa was seer, in Mapimi,
state of Durango, Mexico, on June
20, according to advices received here
today. Mapimi was occupied by th"
Villa forces without resistance, the
information stated as well as the
town of Bormejillo. The same source
of information told of an engage
ment between Villa followers and de
facto troops at Parral saying the
Villistas enteied the town with cries
of "viva Felix Diaz."
On July 10 this report said. Villa
forces were attacking the city of
Dvraiigo and at that time had hopes
of victory before another three days.
An attack on Torreon was expected
at that time. This report stated that
de facto government troops under
General Canuto Reyes, a former ban
dit, who was sent to Parral on Juiy
7, had defeated Villa.
Famine conditions around Torreon
were reported as never no bad. The
people are subsisting, according to
this information, on mesquite beans
and priekley pear.
