4
Xpf
A'
A SPLENDID SUCCESS
Princeton Armory is Packed at Wash-
ington-Lincoln School Program
on Last Friday Evening.
,Net Receipts $118.46Proceeds Go to
Fund for Exhibit Building at
County Fair Grounds.
The Washington-Lincoln program
given by the Princeton schools at the
Armory last Friday evening was a
success from every point of view.
The attendance was more than grati
fyingthe spacious auditorium of that
building being taxed to its capacity
and a program in which patriotic num
bers predominated was pleasingly
carried out. Each and every number
showed that the participants had de
voted considerable time to prepara
tion, and the program reflected credit
upon the teachers as well as those who
took part.
The entertainment opened with a
selection by that popular musical or
ganization, the high school orchestra,
and a "Welcome" by Miss Tompkins'
pupils followed. The little folks did
themselves proud, and were roundly
applauded. The next number was a
song pantomime"The Star Spangled
Banner"by seven girls from Mrs.
Stevens' room, clad in white and car
rying streamers of red and blue, with
Old Glory occupying a prominent
place in the pretty scene. Pupils from
Miss Huse' room, each one carrying a
letter of the alphabet, next appeared
upon the stage, and executed forma
tions so as to spell out various words.
The folk dance by pupils from Miss
Davis' room was another "pleasing
number, and the singing of "America"
by Miss Pollard's pupils won the'favor
of the audience also. Pupils from
Miss Whiting's room, in appropriate
costumes, then gave a Colonial dance
with dignity and grace truly realistic,
and it was followed by a Hiawatha
Cantata. Students from Miss Col
well's room were the participants, and
it was apparent that no efforts had
been spared to make this feature of
the entertainment a success. "In
Betsy Ross' Time" was the title of a
""drill next given, by girl's from Miss
Anderson's room. Betsy Ross ap
peared in the role that earned her a
place in history, and each of the other
participants represented one of the 13
original colonies, contributing a star to
the flag being made. A chorus "Inde
pendence," by Miss King's and Miss
Robarge's pupils was received by the
audience with applause, and a vocal
duett entitled "The Soldier and the
Red Cross Maid," was most pleasingly
rendered by Ruth Douglas and Nathan
Peterson. Pupils from the model de
partment then gave that old favorite,
"Barbara Fritchie," and the scene that
furnished the inspiration for the poem
was depicted. Another chorus by Miss
King's and Miss Robarge's pupils was
well received, and the high school
quintette, composed of Joseph Kaliher,
Lemuel Briggs, Allen Ross, Jay Win
sor and Nathan Peterson, favored the
audience with a song and responded to
an encore. The program concluded
with a military drill by young ladies
from the Normal department, and the
maneuvers were executed with a pre
cision that was admirable to say the
least.
No attempt has been made to do
complete justice to the individual
numbers. Suffice it to say that the
entertainment was one of the best
a like nature ever given in Prince
ton.
Financially the affair was a grati
fying success. The total receipts
amounted to $132.15, and as the ex
penses were only $13.69, a balance of
$118.46 has been turned over to the
fund for the erection of a school ex
hibits building at the fair grounds.
There is now a total of $305.34 avail
able for this purposethe rural
schools of the county having con
tributed $186.88. This wtfl be in
creased, as County Superintendent
Ewing informs us that districts 28
-^.^and 36 recently held entertainments,
ine proceeds of which will go to this
fund, and plans are being completed
for entertainments in other rural dis
tricts of the county. The indications
are that a sum sufficient to erect a
substantial, spacious and handsome
building, one that will be a credit to
the fair as well as the exhibits it
houses, will be raised.
One Standard Candidacy.
A decidedly more definite outline is
given to the senatorial situation by
the announcement that Frank B. Kel
logg will be a candidate for the re
publican nomination, when the time
.comes. It will have the effect of lim-
Minn. Historical Society
iting the field in opposition to the re
election of Senator Clappa field
which might^have been wide open and
numerously filled had Mr. Kellogg de
clined to make the race. Doubt of
Mr. Clapp's political affiliation and
dissatisfaction with his senatorial rec
ord have been influential in stirring
up a field of ambitious candidates who
saw in the mediocrity of the offered
material an opening into the Federal
Senate. The chance for anybody to
win at one time bade fair to pro
mote something like a scramble for an
office which public opinion holds to be
the most dignified in the gift of the
state, and which should call for ability
of the highest order. Mr. Kellogg's
candidacy will end that situation. Tom,
Dick and Harry in politics now will
find themselves and the contest will be
one of principle and on merit.
Undoubtedly there will be other
candidates besides Mr. Kellogg seek
ing this high political honor. He may
not prove the popular favorite. The
high plane to which he has lifted his
candidacy may not appeal in every
quarter. But the fact that he has
yielded to the request of the state edi
tors and will make the campaign will
be gratifying to that large element in
Minnesota which is desirous of pro
viding Senator Nelson with a colleague
of equal class, a man of unusual at
tainment, of recognized ability, who
will be of service and a credit to the
state. It gives to the people the op
portunity to say whether that is the
kind of senator they want.
The field, however, is still open and
the political issues are yet to be de
fined. Mr. Kellogg's decision insures at
least one high-class candidacy. There
may be more, and probably will be.
It will be well for Minnesota if they
all measure to the same high standard
insuring the "election of a senator
whom the state will be gratified to
claim.St. Paul Dispatch.
Council Meets.
The village council met in regular
session last evening, and all members
were present with the exception of
Councilman Henschel. Mayor New
bert presided. Aside from acting on
a few bills no business was transacted,
although a delegation of ladies repre
senting the W. C. T. U., appeared be
fore the council, and requested that
body to take action that would result
in the closing of the Crystal theatre
Sunday evening. The council did not
act upon the matter at this meeting,
but Mayor Newbert promised the lad
ies that he would endeavor to persuade
the proprietor of the Crystal to close
his place of business Sunday evenings,
at least during the hours of church
services.
During the village administration of
the council preceding the present one
an attempt to close the "movies" Sun
day evenings was made, and a petition
asking that the council do this was cir
culated. A protest petition was also
circulated, and both petitions secured
numerous signatures. After consider
ing the matter the village fathers de
cided not to interfere', and since that
time the matter has peacefully slum
bered, at least so far as the general
public is concerned.
Onamia School Changes.
Onamia is to have a consolidated
school. At a special meeting of the
school board at that place last week
action was taken to make the change.
A new school building will be erect
ed, and in all probability it will be
similar to the Foreston school, which
is a two-room brick structure with
basment. The building will be so
erected as to make it practical to add
on additional rooms as may be requir
ed later.
Last year Onamia voted $5,000 bonds
for the erection of a school building,
and if $1,000 is added to this the dis
trict will receive state aid in the sum
of $2,000. The additional $1,000 will
undoubtedly be provided.
Next year three years of high school
work will be provided, and sewing and
music will be added to the courses of
instruction.
Assessors to Meet.
There will be a meeting of the as
sessors of Mille Lacs county at the
office of the county auditor in Prince
ton on Wednesday, March 8, at 10
o'clock a. m., at which time a member
of the state tax commission will in
struct the assessors as to the proper
method of listing and assessing the
various classes of property.
The law governing the assessment
of real and personal property was rad
ically changed at the 1913 session of
the legislature, and assessors not thor
oughly familiar with the law as it now
stands will find it extremely difficult
to make a legal assessment. The tax
R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, MARCH 2,1916
commission desires to render all pos
sible assistance to assessors and the
meeting will not be confined to an ex
planation of the new law. Every ques
tion relating to the duties of an asses
sor which is presented at the meeting
will be fully explained. All assessors
should endeavor to attend.
Assessors who attend are entitled to
$3 for the day, and mileage in the sum
of 5c for each mile necessarily traveled
in coming and going.
Plow Early for Good Corn Crop.
If you did not plow your corn ground
last fall, the earlier it is done now the
better. Early plowing should be deep,
and the heavier the .soil the deeper the
plowing should be. When the soil is
plowed four or five inches deep and
cultivation of the crop is two or three
inches deep, there is a loose bed of soil
two inches 4eep for the roots to grow
in. Plowing six or eight inches deep
doubles this bed, and generally in
creases the yield.
If you plowed the ground in the
spring, it should be disked and har
rowed as early as possible. Disking or
harrowing should be done every week
or ten-day period from the time the
ground can be worked until the crop
is planted.
The corn should be planted as early
a?i the soil is warm, to give a growing
season as long as possible. Early
disking will make the ground ready for
planting as soon as the season will
permit. Planting should be done in the
southern part of the state sometime
during the first ten days in May.* The
second ten days of the month is the
best time for planting in the central
part, and the last ten days the best in
the northern part.
For producing grain, the corn should
be checked 3 feet 6 inches with three
or four kernels in a hill. In ground
free from weeds the corn may well be
drilled stalks standing about 12 to 14
inches in a row. For silage or bundle
corn to be fed without husking, it
should be drilled with stalks standing
six to eight inches in a row.
There is no advantage in deep plant
ing. From one to two inches is a good
depth if the soil is moist. In a wet
season or on wet land it is important
that the seed be not mor than one and'
a half inches in the ground. The plants
will not root deeper on account of deep
planting and the corn planted shallow
will come up earlier and grow better.
Return From Conference.
Rev. M. Peterson and N. Lundblad
returned from Minneapolis Tuesday
evening, where they had been in at
tendance at the Minnesota Conference
of the Swedish Lutheran church, and
report that it was a pleasant and suc
cessful gathering.
The Minnesota conference is in a
flourishing condition, and embraces a
membership of 72,725 communicants.
The value of the church property in
this district is $2,448,831, and there
are 289 church buildings. The Aug
ustana synod of which this district is
a party has a total of 272,984 com
municants under its jurisdiction.
Rev. Peterson had the honor of oc
cupying the pulpit in the largest Swed
ish Lutheran church in this district
the one at Center Citylast Sunday,
and took for his subject "A Message
From Heaven." He was also selected
as a delegate to represent the Minne
apolis district at the annual meeting
of the Agustana synod, at Galesburg,
111.
Committed to Inebriate Farm.
Robt. Hanson of Milaca was arrest
ed by Sheriff Shockley yesterday, on
complaint of his son, Norman, charg
ing inebriety, and examined in Judge
Sanford's court the same afternoon.
Drs. Cooney and Caley were the exam
ining physicians, and County Attor
ney Myron appeared to protect the in
terests of the defendant. After con
sidering evidence submitted by Mrs.
Hanson and the complaining witness,
as well as the defendant, the physi
cians and probate judge decided that
it would be best for all concerned that
Mr. Hanson be committed to the state
inebriate farm at Willmar.
Mr. Hanson is 56 years-old, and his
wife testified that when not using in
toxicants he is industrious and of an
agreeable disposition. At the state
institution he will be afforded an op
portunity to develop self-control, and
will undoubtedly yet become a good
and useful citizen. Sheriff Shockley
accompanied the patient to Willmar
today.
Red Lake County Wet.
Red Lake county voted on the coun
ty option question Monday, and by a
vote of 927 to 708 remains wet. Eleven
of the 18 precincts were carried by the
wets. Red Lake is the only wet coun
ty in northwestern Minnesota.
m:m^^:m^.^w^^^m^^^^^^M^^^^^^^
BADLY DEFEATED
By a Vote of 293 to 93 the Voters
Negatived the New School
Site Proposition.
If a New School Building is Necessary
Is Should be Located on
a Sightly Site.
As was expected the proposition to
acquire a site for a new school build
ing south of the fair grounds was
overwhelmingly defeated at the spec
ial election on Tuesday. The vote
stood 93 for to 293 against
The polls were open from two until
five o'clock. J. J. Skahen and Dr. D.
A. McRae acted as judges and Ira
Stanley as clerk of the election. There
was a constant stream of voters from
the opening to the closing of the polls,
and many women voted.
The one-sided meeting at the Arm
ory Saturday evening clearly indicat
ed the result of the election. For one
reason or another the sentiment seem
ed to be strongly against acquiring
the west end site. Some held that it
was too far out of the way, others ob
jected because the pupils would be
obliged to cross the railroad tracks go
ing to and coming from the school,
and there were those who favored the
erection of a new building on lots ad
joining the present high school build
ing. But the main opposition came
from those who were opposed to anoth
er school building altogether, regard
less of where it might be located.
If a new school building is abso
lutely necessary, and the school board
is decidedly of the opinion that it is as
every room is overcrowded notwith
standing the fact that two depart
ments are being conducted in rooms in
the Armory, it ought to be built on a
commanding piece of ground and an
entire block is none too large for a site.
The Union does not care to discuss
sites at this time, but we think it
would be a grave mistake to have all
our school buildings located in one
small block. There would be the ever
present danger of fire, besides it would
be tgj .congested with six or seven hun
dred pupils, they would hardly have
room to turn around on the grounds.
If 8 -fk-w .school building is to be erect
ed the needs and necessities of the fu
ture as well as the present should be
taken into consideration.
A Venerable Brainerd Woman.
On the 21st ult., at Brainerd, a no
ble woman, Mrs. May Halsted, depart
ed this life at the residence of her son,
Col. A. J. Halsted.
Mrs. Halsted was born in Ohio in
1824. Her father, Jacob Grubb, was
a soldier in the war of 1812 and was
one of the defenders of Fort Henry,
Baltimore, at the time the British at
tempted to capture it. On two occa
sions in his youth Mr. Grubb had the
honor of meeting and talking with
General Washington and frequently
related with pride to his grand-child
ren incidents of those meetings.
Mrs. Halsted's husband was a sol
dier in the Union army and was killed
in a charge before Richmond in 1863.
Mrs. Halsted was in full possession
of her faculties to the end and chatted
pleasantly with those at her bedside
up to within a few moments of her
death. She never used spectacles,
read the daily papers every day and
discussed the news with her friends.
The Brainerd Dispatch, in a touching
tribute, says of her:
"She was a great reader with de
cided literary tastes. A gentle, pa
tient, kindly soul, a noble woman
her long life was unselfishly devoted
to helping others her charity was
unlimited, and many times at a sac
rifice to herself, but this was never
considered when she found one whom
she could help.
"She was loved by everyone who
knew her, and had for many years
maintained a correspondence with
many personal friends all over the
country. She loved young people and
they loved her and many young ladies
were in the habit of calling upon her."
State Sold 86,673 Game Licenses.
Reports of county auditors on the
sale of resident hunting licenses in
Minnesota for the 1915 season have all
been received by the state game and
fish commission and show that there
were 26,288 big game licenses sold and
60,385 small game licenses, or a total
of 86,673. The total of small game
licenses sold was less than expected
in some counties owing to the poor
hunting conditions, particularly in
prairie chicken and ruffed grouse
country. In 1914 there were 25,852 big
game and 23,729 small game licenses
sold, or a total of 49,581. The marked
increase in small game licenses the last
year was on account of a change in the
law. by which the exemption in favor
of a resident hunting in his own coun
ty was done away with.
Mr. Kellogg's Announcement.
Mr. Kellogg's announcement of his
caiididacy for the senate will be re
ceived with much favor. It is made at
this time in answer to a pledge of sup
port from a large number of leading
state papers. Their pledge constitutes
a really remarkab'le call to a man, well
known to all of them, to enter the
public service and become their repre
sentative in the Senate of the United
States.
While Mr. Kellogg is known to have
had under consideration the matter of
becoming a candidate for the Senate,
he had decided not to be because he did
not wish to make the kind of a per
sonal, vote-soliciting campaign which
our system of elections seemed to
make necessary to success.
A large number of republican news
paper men have promised him such
support as it is believed will relieve
him of the necessity of making that
kind of a campaign. It will be up to
them to make good. And we have no
doubt they will.
They have a candidate whose quali
fications are unusually high. With
Senator Nelson, with his long and emi
nently successful record in the senate
and his extraordinary influence in that
body, and the wide reputation and rec
ognized ability of Mr. Kellogg as one
of the foremost lawyers in the country
and a diligent student of public affairs
with these two men in the senate,
Minnesota would not be surpassed in
the power and influence of its repre
sentation in that body by any state in
the Union. We are entitled to the
service of the best we have got.Min
neapolis Tribune.
Entertains for Coming Bride.
Mr. F. W. Manke was hostess at a
pleasing social affair in this village
Sunday evening, when she entertained
in honor of Miss Marie Falk of Prince
ton town, a coming bride. Invitations
are out for the marriage, which will
occur on March 6, and Mrs. H. Balfanz
is the lucky young man.
The following were present at the
party Sunday evening: Mesdames E.
Manke, A. Falk, W. Bandemer, F.
Schilling, C. Weeks, and the Misses
Clara Roos, Flora Falk, Clara Rosen
and Clara Gebert. A delectable luncheon
was served at 7 o'clock, the table dec
orations being red hearts and cupids.
Neat little satin bags filled with rice
were used as place cards.
During the evening Fred Schilling,
acting as the groom, and Anton Falk,
jr., attired as the bride, went through
a mock wedding ceremony, and the
first named also gave a recitation. A
social good time was had until 10
o'clock, when the guests departed for
their homes, after wishing the bride
to-be much happiness in the years to
come.
Local Market Advances.
The local potato market has pre
sented a peculiar situation the past
week. While the outside market has
not advanced the local market
strengthened Saturday, and since that
time Ohios, Rose and Kings have been
bringing from 60c to 65c Burbanks
and Russets 75c to 78c, and Triumphs
have remained at $1 to $1.05 per
bushel. Receipts have not been heavy,
and shipments have also fallen off
some. On Saturday 11 carloads left
the Princeton depot, while on Tues
day 21 were shipped, and today 10
cars will leave herea total of 42
since our last issue.
Civic Betterment Club Meets.
The meeting of the Woman's Civic
Betterment club held at the court house
halLlast Thursday evening was a de
cided success, although not as well at
tended as desired. Mrs. Beatty, vice
president of the Minnesota Federation
of Women's Clubs, gave an interest
ing talk upon the work accomplished
by that organization, and urged the
Princeton club to affiliate with same.
It was agreed to call a special meet
ing for next Thursday evening for the
purpose of considering this. A pub
lic reception to be given some time in
March was also agreed upon.
He Was Born in Sweden.
A good friend of the Union writes
us from Dalbo: "Several of us had an
argument the other evening over the
birthplace of Hon. Henry Rines of
Mora by unanimous consent it was
agreed to submit the matter to R. C.
Dunn. An oyster suppper is pending
on your decision. Please answer in
next issue of ^the Union." Mr. Rines
is a native of Sweden. He came to
this country with his parents when he
was a year old, and for a time resided
in the town of Stanchfield, Isanti coun-
VOLUME XL. NO. 11
ty. Later the family removed to
Brunswick, Kanabec county. Henry's
father died and his mother married
John Rines. Henry, and all the fam
ily assumed the name of his foster
father, and that is the reason why he
bears the un-Swedish cognomen of
Rines.
The Leap Year Ball.
February 29, the extra day that dis
tinguishes 1916 from the ordinary
year, was celebrated in Princeton with
Leap Year ball at the Armory dur
ing the evening, and it proved to be
an appropriate and enjoyable observ
ance. Fair damsels galore were in
evidence, and as for the sterner sex,
if was represented by awkward duf
fers, comely youths and docile married
meri\ Delightful music was furnished
by the Princeton orchestra, and no
strains were wasted. Supper was serv
ed at the I. O. O. F. hall shortly be
fore midnight, but the dance did not
end until almost 3 a. m. All in all it
was a most joyous gathering, and those
present pronounced it the dance event
of the season.
Starts Something.
In a fit of anger, last Wednesday
morning, Charles O'Leary, who has
been doing chores at the Soo hotel dur
ing the past two months for his board,
acted "Carry Nation" at the hotel of
fice by demolishing the show case
and clock and otherwise created a dis
turbance in regular western style. He
immediately gave himself up to the
authorities. Mrs. Love did not wish
to cause any expense to the village or
covmty so O'Leary was given orders
to leave Onamia, which saved the vil
lage nd county a good many dollars
and probably cheated' O'Leary out of
a few weeks' free board and lodging
at the couity bastile.Onamia Lake
Breeze.
Engine Derailed at Milaca.
The south-bound freight did not get
beyond Milaca Tuesday. It appears
that after the St. Cloud freight had
taken water at that point the previous
evening, a lump of ice became fast
ened in the water tank so that the
flow of water was not closed off.
Water covered the track and froze:
with the result that when Tuesday
morning's train thundered into the ice
at 7 o'clock the engine was thrown off
the track. It required several hours of
labor to replace the engine, and it did
not leave Milaca until 4 p. m., when it
steamed away with one driver, leav
ing its train of cars.
Fred is Making Good.
Fred Warner, son of O. M. Warner,
manager of the Princeton Co-operative
creamery, who is making butter in a
creamery at Northwood, Iowa, is meet
ing with gratifying success in his pro
fession. Last week at the state con
vention of Iowa buttermakers Fred
carried off the first and sweepstake
honors for creamery butter, being
awarded the gold medal, a gold watch
and other prizes. He learned the bus
iness in the Princeton creamery, under
the able tutelage of his father, and
his friends here will be pleased to learn
of his success.
Olmstead Aflame for Kellogg.
Rochester, Minn., Feb. 29Frank
B. Kellogg's Rochester friends want
him to make his opening address in
his campaign for United States sena
tor in this city and a movement has
already been started for that purpose.
A telegram has been sent to Mr. Kel
logg, as follows:
"Olmstead county is aflame with en
thusiasm over your acceptance. You
will get almost every vote. We send
congratulations, and want you to make
your opening speech in Rochester."
Mr. Kellogg spent his early life in
Rochester. He was associated with B.
W. Eaton in the law business here.
To Leave Princeton.
Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Hatch expect to
leave for St. Paul next week, where
Mr. Hatch has secured a position with
the daily News, and they expect to
make that city their home. Mr. Hatch
is the present village recorder, and
this means that a successor to him will
have to be chosen at the coming elec
tion. Mr. and Mrs. Hatch have a large
circle of friends in Princeton, one and
all of whom .wish them the best of
everything in their new home.
Decide Not to Change.Connections.
A special meeting of the stockhold
ers of the Wyanett and Silver Lake
Co-operative Telephone Co., was held
at the M. B. A. hall, Wyanett, last Sat
urday afternoon for the purpose of
considering the advisability of chang
ing the telephone connection of that
company from the Tri-State to the Ru
ral Telephone Co. exchange. A vote
was taken upon the proposition, and
those opposed to a change at this time
proved to be a, majority.
1
3?"
