Jstm.
THE WEATHER
Snow or rain fejTfii
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
fatr.coldefj
to-nlifreW;?
Highest tempenture yesterday,?; lowest, 28,
Detailed weather, mall and murine reports on page 13,
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1916. wptww,n,i
PRICE TWO CENTS.
PRESIDENT IS
INDORSED; 'BIG
4' SLATE WINS
Germans Plan New Drive
37 Miles South of Verdun;
Checked at North and East
French Artillery Bombards Second and Third Lines of
Invaders in Pontra-Mousson District, Where Kaiser's
Troops Attempt to Launch Offensive.
PARIS CONFIDENT FORTRESS WILL HOLD OUT
JOHNL.BILLARD
SUIT' SETTLED
F0R$1,250,000
Taken to 3fenn He and As
sociates Admit Acting as
New Haven Agents.
LYMAN SAYS
CAPTORS GOT
$19,000 OF HIS
Claims That He Had $34,
000 When He Was Ar
rested in Florida.
Two Ships Sunk as U Boat
War Begins; White Star
Drops Passenger Service
All Probably Lost on One British Steamship Sir Ed
ward Gray Denies German Claim Italian Liner,
Armed, on Way to Danger Zone.
BIG LINERS TO CARRY MUNITIONS ONLY
CONGRESSFIRW,
WILSON TOO, ON
D BOAT ISSUE
O'Gorman, Osborn, Meyer,
( JJntermyer Chosen by
Democrats. .
PLATFORM VIRTUALLY
INSTRUCTS FOR WILSON
Glynn, in "Keynote" Reply
to Root, Lands Adminis
tration's Acts.
1,000,000 COPIES TO
BE SENT OYER STATE
Defends Foreign Policy;
Calls Ex-Senator "Swoop
ing Hawk of War."
Btraccsb, March 1. The features of
(he Democratic unofficial State conven
tion held hero to-day were the harmony
which prevailed and the keynote speech
of ex-Gov. Olynn.
The following; will head the New York
State delegation to the St Louis Demo
c ratio national convention:
Delegates at large United States
Senator James A. O'Gorman of Man
hattan, Democratic State Chairman
William Church Osborn. Putnam;
George J. Meyer, Buffalo; Samuel
Unterrayer, New York.
Alternates at large John J. Kuhn.
Brooklyn; ex-Lleut-Gov. Thomas F.
Conway. Clinton; Mayor Cornelius K.
Burns, Troy ; Frank L. Crocker. Nassau.
The platform practically Instructs the!
delegates ror President Wilson, declar
ing! "We. heartily Indorse Wood row Wilson
M a Preildent.
"We believe that the best Interests
of all tho people demand his continu
ance. lc his high office..
"We unhesitatingly tecommend the
renomlnatlon of Woodrow Wilson fdr
President Cf the United Slates."
Million Copies) of Speech.
The convention ordered the printing
of 1,000,009 copies of Glynn's speech to
be, distributed among New York State
voters, with a view of refuting the "key
note" speech of ex-Senator Ellhu Root,
delivered at tho recent licpubllcan State
convention.
"Glynn's keynote speech Is a docu
ment which should be spread bmdeast
throughout the country and not cqnnned
to the perusal of the voters of New
York State," declared Dudley Field Ma
lone, who Is President Wilson's Collector
of the Port of New York.
"Gov. Glynn's speech, made In the
name of the Democratic party of New
York State," said Collector Malone. "is
the tlrst complete unswer to the partisan
misstatements that have been made by
Kcpubllciu leaders since the beginning
of the present Administration at Wash
ington. The great value of this Fpeech
to the average thoughtful tmn will be
that It presents facts beyonJ dispute
rather thiir. partisan opinions.
"Tho Democratic party in New York
State has not In recent jeara bteii so
strong in harmony and unity for tho
coming State and national elections as
It lias proved Itself to be by the sessions
of this convention."
The selection of the delegates at large
and the adoption of the platfoitn were
the unanimous work of the delegates.
There was not a ripple In the harmony
prevailing, which even exceeded that of
the convention which noitilti.net John A.
Llx for Governor In llilu.
Meeting first at noon, the convention
outlined the work of Its committer, so
that all were prepared early to go back
to the convention hall and conclude their
deliberations. It was till over at 7 o'clock
to-night
Gov. Glynn headed the Albany delega
tion, and when Chairman Osborn called
the convention to order shortly after
4 :30 P. M. Mr. Glynn wus named as tem
porary chairman. He was warmly ap
plauded, lie was made the permanent
chairman and began his speech shortly
after 5 o'clock.
3Iany Women In Throng.
Hvery part of the theatre wan Jammed
Rnd a number of women occupied seats
In the boxes and also crowded In among
the overflow on the stage. As the ex
Governor proceeded he had the delegates
at times on their feet cheering.
Mr. Glynn's references to the. "differ
rnces between Mr. Hoot's conservatism
of responsibility as Secretary of State
and hli- anarchy of speech at the Repub
lican .State convention," tils characteriza
tion of Mr. Root as the "drum and trum
l't statesman and swooping hawk of
war," and his Insistence that every true
American would pot have to he coaxed
to war w hen the honor and Integrity of
the nation demanded It brought great
applause from ull sides.
Mr Glynn's n-ecli was Interrupted for
several minutes by the cheers which wel
comed hia declaration that there are
undoubtedly criticisms of the President's
l.cacc policy being made "over the carpet
trenches of the elubi," but that the men
who would do the real righting, tho sane
niid patriotic element of the people, have
inntldeiire In the President and stand
ready to respond to the call of arms
w hen a call conies,
Defending the President's rotitsn In
regard to Uclghim, Mr, .Glynn stepped
to the front of the stage, its he asked :
"1 would like to ask Mr. Hoot If he
would act any different as Secretary of
State were ho In that ottlco to-day? I
.Mint him to answer as the statesman
he was and not the politician he s."
Taking up the "pointed finger"' phase
of Mr. Hunt's speech, the ex-Governor
id.
"Yep, President Wilson bus only
Coiiflim'i! on r'uurth Page.
fsectsf Cubit DtipaicX to Tas 8cm.
Paws, March 1. The lull In the fight
ln north of Verdun continues. There
was no Infantry action last night or to
day In the district .east of the fortress,
to which the Germans transferred their
efforts on sVonday and Tuesday. Com
parative calm prevails all about the fort
ress and In the Woevre district The
German artl'lcry resumed action, to-day
against the French lines between Malan
court and Forges, northwest of Verdun ;
In the reglpns of Vaux and D.unloup,
northeast of Verdun, and about Fresnes.
The Tempi, In discussing the situation
at Verdun, says :
The situation Is satisfactory. It re
mains, nevertheless, very serious. Our
vigorous adversary has not engaged In
an affair of such Importance and with
such effective' to renounce It after a
partial check. He Will renew the attacks
on the same front or In other parts of!
mat region, uur supreme command la
aware of all these movements and Is
ready to meet an offensive with all
energy."
The district west of Pont-a-Mousson
has Is-com. a centre of Interest us a re
sult of German activity In this region.
In the communique Issued this afternoon
the War Orllce , announced that the
French artillery had directed its Are
against the second and third German
lines In this section, where It appeared
that preparatory evolutions were In
progress. It Is recalled that th Ger
mans held it sort of manoeuvre rehearsal
under the eyes of the Kaiser before
launching the attack on Verdun from
the north. Uecause of this Importance
Is given to the evidences of such prepara
tion in the district west of Pont-a-Mousson,
which Is thirty-seven miles
south of Verdun.
The centre of the artillery activity In
this region Is the line between Itegnle
vllle. on theThlaucourt road, and Hem-
enauvllle, between this ro.ul and the road
from Pont-a-Mousson to Fllrey. Tho
otliclal communique Issued to-night tells
also of the activity of French trench
cannon In the Hols-Ie-Pretre, between
this line and I'ont-4-Moussxn.
No Infaatry Action at Verdun, r
The official communique Issued to
night by the French War Office follows :
In llclglum our artillery In concert
with the British artillery executed un
effective tire against the enemy
trencheh to the southeast of Hoeslnghe.
Hast of Khflins a detachment esti
mated at two companies, which at- ,
MAN GONE 23 YEARS
RETURNS TO.FAMILY
Lost Memory by Full in West,
but Gained Wealth
Afterward.
Stamford, Conn., March I. Twenty
three years ago Frederick C. I'range Kild
good-W to his wife Sarah and his chil
dren. Aletta and Charles, and said that
he was going West to establish himself
In a growing city.
"I will send for you when I got set
tled," were his parting words.
Weeks went by and the family heard
nothing from Mr. I'rangc. They became
uneasy and began a search for him with
out result. The family finally dccldid
he was dead. His daughter married
Henry J. Flick u Stamford photogra
pher, and 'they have a daughter, Lillian,
aged 11. His sou Charles is a dentist
here
A week ago the wife of the missing
man received a letter postmarked New
York saying that the writer was her
husband and asking forgiveness for his
long silence. He bought an Interview.
Yesterday Mrs. I'rango and her daughter
went to New York and met Mr. Prange,
now 9 years uld. In the Grand Central
station. They brought him back to
Stamford and he will spend his remain
ing days with Mrs. I'range at the house
of their daughter, Mrs. Flick. .
"Not long after father left home, said
Mrs. Flick to-night, "he was thrown off
a horse In a Western mountain road and
suffered concussion of thu brain. He
was HI a long time and when he recov
eted had little memory of the past. He
drifted about sad finally settled in Cali
fornia, where ho became Interested In
mining. Ho made his headquarters at
Los Angeles and he grew rlcli.
"A month or to ago he conceived the
Idea of returning last to see If his rela
tives were alive. He did not write, but
went to Hackensack, N. J., where the
family burial plot of mother's people la
located. He expected to find on a monu
ment there un Inscription telling of the
death of mother, Thero was none,. He
went to New York then and found Ills
brother-in-law, William Iluyler, and
from him learned that my mother and
his children were alive and that I had
a nineteen-year-old daughter. Then ho
wrote' us.
"Niedless to say. we were delighted to
hear from him and lost no time lit going
to him. Father Is now very happy."
LEAVES $1,678,000 TO CHARITY.
Tnrnty-elurbt Cleveland Institu
tion M lis re In Request,
Cl.EVTt.ANP, Ohio, March 1, Bequests
totalling 11,470,000 were made to
twenty-eight charitable Institutions of
this city In the will uf Hobert H. Hhoiles,
llled for probate to-day. This Is re
garded as the largest Individual bequest
eves made to a group of local Institu
tions. The amounts 'arc bestowed with
out regard to denomination.
Mr. Hhodes, who was a banker and
business man of Cleveland for tho hist
half century, died Saturday, Ills for
tune Ih computed at $2,22K,0flu, The
charity bequests are left to the cltUetm
Havings and Trust Company us a per
petual trust fund.
rMIKIDA CAHOI.IVA KtCNORTN
Four steel trains vlu hort line in heat
resorts. Festiosrd Air Line, UK Uroudnui,
Mo.
CROWN PRLNCE CALLED
BACK TO HEADQUARTERS 1
lawno.N, March 1. The Dally
Cnroniclr's .correspondent at Ocn
ova quote.'! a despatch received
from Mainz, headquarters of the
German General staff, to the effect
What the Kaiser's military chiefs
iiro divided on the question whether
to continue tho attack on Verdun.
Gen. von Falkenhayn, Chief of
Staff, Is said to bo urging resump
tion of tho attacks, whllo other
geperols oppose the plan.
The despatch adds that the Ger
man staff estimates tho German
losses In tho lighting from last Fri
day until Monday ut 76,000 men, of
whom 15.000 wounded were des
patched to the rtur of the fighting
line on Saturday atone.
The same correspondent transmits
information from Mainz to the ef
fect that ihc Crown Prince has
iIn'cii summoned to tho staff head
quarters, "where there Is expecta
tion of lamentable events." The
Iiuko of Wuerttcmberg Is reported
to have been placed In chief com
mand during the Crown Prince's
absence.
tempted to reach our line, fled under
our tin?, leaving their dead on the
tlelil.
In the region of Verdun there was
no Infantry' action In the course of
the day. The enemy bombardment
continued west of the Meuse, In tho
zone between Malancourt and Forges,
to the east of the Meuse notably In
tho regions of Vaux and Damloup and
In the Woevre, on our trenches at
Fresnes.
Our artillery has shown great ac
tivity on the whole enemy front. West
of Pont-a-Mousson our trench can
non destroyed German rganliatloiiH
In the Ilols-le-Prrtre. Our heavy
artillery bombarded enemy establish
ments In the region of ThlaiKourt.
In Alsace, there were actions of
7orfnurrt on Third pagr.
CHEMIST IS INJURED
IN N. Y. U. EXPLOSION
Howard Brownell, Laboratory
Assistant, Severely Cut
by Glass.
Il..,.,i ri-.n . i . . ,
Howard Hrownell. an assistant In- I
struetor In tho Havemcyer chemical I
laboratory of New York University nar-
rowly escaped serious injury yes'terday
III the private office and experimental
room of Dr. Arthur Hill when chemicals
that ho was mixing exploded with a
bang that was heard for blocks around.
Tho shock was so great that all the win
dows In tin) office were shattered and
many Isittles and test tubes wcro
smashed.
Hrownell was preparing an experiment
which Involved the use of methyl nl-
trate. The apparatus with which he was
..,,.! sJ. if , , ," la",r l iremeiy not
,,u i,illn. i no young " .u......n ..i ..s ,i nuecior.
mail was standing near and was caught Hamuel Hemingway, pteshlent of the
In a shower of glass. He was cut Second National Haul; of New Haven.
severely about thu face and hands and W"H treasurer f"r a time, and connected
was assisted In a dazed condition to''"' ""' """t""1" "Is" for a time wero
tno outer office, where his Injuries were
uresseu. .
Thu explosion Jarred manv or n, m.,,.
dents, tho majority of whom didn't
worr ubout It, however, believing tliat
It wuh a blast that hud been set off by
Italians at work near the campus. When
they leumed that It happened In one of
the university buildings they were
greatly surprised.
SLUMP LN WOMEN'S VOTES.
limp "f 7I.B IB In Y.ar al mivasjo
Municipal !rlruar.
CltlCAito. March 1, Corrected returns
of yesterday's primaries show that the
women volets showed a noticeable lack
of Interest, The net icsult was a ilrop
of 1 1, fit:, in the feminine vote, compared
with the municipal primary last year
when Mayor Thompson and Judge ills,.,,'
were righting It nut. The returns show
a total woman's vote yesterday of SI .
131. In last year's primary the tnia'i
wits 1. '2,636.
The slump was more nntleenhl. i .t.
democratic primaries.
"SPY AIRSHIPS" TOY BALLOONS.
negarded ns Plan to Terrorise
Workers In Middle West.
Ashland, Wis.. March 1. Wisconsin
Mlnncsot.1 and Michigan huve been the
victims of u hoax on a largo scale for
live doys.
It was discovered to-dny that "aero
planes" reported over the northern coun
ties were only toy balloon-.
It appears that tho hoax was on u
thoroughly planned scale, and the au
thorities believe it wus part of a plan
to trrtnrlzn the workmen at the Wash
burn 1I11 Pont Powder plant and the
Utke Superior docks.
Three hundred men refused in work at
Washburn to-day, In fear of tho dyna
miting of tho plant, us threatened In
nnonymoiH lettem.
flKK.VT IIEAK KPRINIl WATER.
Ids. thu cums of tlx clais stoppirtd bottles.
Mi.
CASH PAYMENT 31 AY
AFFECT NEW TRIAL
Announcement was made yesterday
that the suit of the New York. New
Haven and Hartford luillroad Company
against John L. Millard of Mcrldcn,
Conn., and his associates has been set
tled out of court by the payment of $1,
260.000 cash by tho defendants to the
plaintiff.
I Settlement wa taken generally to
I mean that Mr. Hlllard and his associates
! hod been forced to admit that they were
I acting as agents of the New Haven com
psny in the famous shift of Hoston and
I Maine Hall road Company stock from the
American Bxpress Company to the New
Haven to Hlllard and then to the Hoston
Railroad Holding Company In 1903 and
1909. Undoubtedly It will play a promi
nent part In the second trial of Wlfllam
, Rockefeller. Lewis Cass Iedyard, lvd-
ward D. Hobblns mid Charles M. Pratt
n.ui, ai.i.,ru ,.!, i
with conspiracy, which Is scheduled to
I "That settlement establishes our con -
. .i .i.. ... ,.i.t .....
tentlon at the first trial, which was o
strenuously denied," said Frank M.
Swacker, special Deputy Attorney-Gen-tral.
"It should play an Important part f
In the next trial."
.statement by Xrrr Haven. I
The executive otllce of the New Haven
yesterday gave out this brief stutnment
regarding the settlement:
The suit of the New York. New
Haven and Hartford Hallroad Com
pany, et al., vs. John L. Hlllaril. et al ,
has been settled and withdrawn from
the court.
The amount received by the New
Haven company was Jl.2S0.IHi0 In
cash, which has been paid Into Its
treasury. Tills settlement whn ad
vised by the special counsel. .Mers.
Moretlem Storey of Hoston aim Alvln
W. Hyde of Hartford of the linn of
Gross. Hyde Shiftman, son of the
i late William Waldo Hjule, who was
originally associated with Mr. Storey
I as counsel, after an Investigation itf all
the facts and negotiations extending
I over the period of nearly a year.
There would be no further statement
from the railroad comfTatiy. "ff was s.llii."1ng preinlirm' londs In Hwltsefjad, but
nor would It lie supplemented by any
statement from Homer S. dimming,
i counsel for Mr Ulllard, or Samuel More-
!Kue of New Haven, both counstl and
I defendant.
Kor reasons which It retrnrileil a cum
! pelllng the America n Kxpn-es Company
I In 1P0S concerned to cell the Id?, SIS
, shares of Boston and Maine Hallroad
I stock which It held to the New Haven
company. The transaction was actually
completed by an exchange of the stool;
of tho one road for the other. letter
conditions arose In Massachusetts which
I made It necessary for the New llnven
company 10 gei roi 01 us uoniings oi
stock In the other road.
noaaht by lllllnrd.
John L. Hlllard, a prosperous coal
dealer of Merlden, Conn., bought the
stock from the New Haven company at
125, and thereupon became Involved In
an argument which was an Impottunt
feature of the trial of the former diree-
tors lor conspiracy nisi i.iu. u an nuns
,i, ..n,. h.,hr in ,i, ., ... ,
tlpn Mr. Hlllard acted ns ail agent of
,nr s'pw "i,ven compitiy or upon his
"wAVn0" ! , .,
lieen settled the following e.ir mid the
railroad holding company bill had been
passed Mr. Hlllard ut once sold his stock
to the holding company a I IIJil share.
thus making a protlt of IJ.TIs.imn. To
tills was lidded the prortt Irorn ..mother
lot of stock purchased through Kidder,
I'eabody ; Co., amounting to li'ol.noO.
making 2.t 4 s.OOo profit In nil.
lmmetiiatclv after this ili .it lln. Kill n-.l
Company was organized with a liberal
charter, Mr. Hlllard w:i. president and
Kdward l. Hobblns, counsel for the Seiv
ie. ....... i..use. ,o n.c ,
'f-'rry vv nippic, presiiieni or the .Mer-
miuin ..iiuiiiii.1 eiinn w. ,ew lllve;
Samuel .vioreuouse, n .New; llnvin law-,
yer, and Charles S. Lludsle'y of .Mcrldcn,
Mr. Hlllard's partner. ,
Profits Not In Cnnli. i
Mr. Hlllard did not draw down his'
profits In cash. The New Haven eom-j
puny at that time had certain more or'
less valuable assets for which It had
very little regard, and Charles S, Mellen '
saw to It that the profits when Mr. t.
lard got them wero made up In pan of
$1,700,000 In bonds of the Kistern
Steumshlp Company of Maine. $7,111,000
in stock and bonds of the Host,,,, UeruUl,
$r.0,00il In notes of the Hrldgeport Mn.
dorand other securities of similar char-
1 There was some cash paid over, of
I which 175.000 went to Samuel Hemlng.
way as a present, another sum to Kd-1 Fisher of Yale, urging the adoption of a
ward I). Hobhlns and around $300,1100,1,111 fr compulsory social Insurance for
went for general expenses, Mr Hlllard
also retaining ills share,
The evidence at the trial on this point
showed that when the late J. P. Morgan
and Lewis Cass Ledyurd, both dlicctois.,
returned from Kurope aft.r the deal Mr.
Morgan whs angry, He denounced the
whole deal, saying the profits were m.
moiieraic iiiiu jnai no won it not nerni III
arty Una settlement. To prevent trouble . The bill would bring preventive
Mr. Hlllard turned the $2,000.000 In medicine Into every home Last year
Mock of his company over to the New there were 630,000 unnecessaiy deaths In
LI,,X?L,.,i-".!",..!!h w2r,T",, n"' b"rh,,rl,'"'l"' The mil also would
S. Mellen until 1911. when It w.,s te-1 distribute tho enormous burden of sick
turned. . .i... ... . n. ,,.,,.,, .
Ihtwarri IMttnll hn.i,,,..
: ; viiiiii niaii or
the New Haven ho.ud In September,
IUIS, and after n year of Investigation
siitl was started ugalnst Mr. Hlllard and
the men who were associated with
him and Mr. Mellen for $2,500,ooo n
round figures on the allegation that thev
had acted only as agents of the railroad
company and therefore were not entitled
to the profits. The settlement yesterday
was the result.
I'lrrsriKMi, Mass,, March I,
I nm
glad the Hlllard litigation is out of the
way una t win not n annoyed by it
any longer," said C, H, Mellen at his
home In Stockbrldge to. night. " ,av
not been a party to Hie settlement,
have not paid out one cent In the settle
ment." ,
M1SSKI) MILLION BY
FLIGHT. HE ASSERTS
Hi. John Grant Lyman lacked some
ot his customary buoyancy when he
arrived at the Pennsylvania Terminal at
4 :20 o'clock yesterday afternoon on the
Atlantic Coast Line express from Jack
sonville, l-'la., with his retinue of post
olllce Inspectors and deputy United
Stater marshals. Ills depression deep
ened Into gloom when upon his arrival
at the Federal Uulldlng twenty min
utes later he was told by Assistant
United state Attorney Kdwlu M. Stan-
ton that he would have to go to the
Tombs for the night, as all the Judges
had gone and no one could tie found
to admit him to ball.
l.m.iti made, the trip from Jackson
ville with Mcpulv United States Mar.
shals W. Ii. Vlnzant. Jr.. and C. L.
llathcocK ot J. o ksonvllle and Post Of-
, Jjl", 1"-Pectmt Muyhew, Keiijon and
1 I'hllH.lelphla station his wife Iwarded I
the train and threw her arms about I
l.Mii.m. whom she h.td not seen since
she left fur lnglatid last January to
bring her mother to this country.
Accoidlng to a deputy to whom Ly
man w.v handcuffed most of the trip.
the broker declared that If the author!
I.. I..,-.. I..,. I 1..1 littn run liU br.iLer.
. airn hui-lmsx In this city
age bueln.ss in this city under the
name of John II. Putnam Just ten weeks
loncer he would have cleaned up a
million.
Lmii.iIi. according to this deputy, ad
( mltted that he had not Invested tho
.money turned over to him by his clients
I In oil stock as he had ugrcvd to do.
I
, III Tip Won Oat.
I "I told them to buy Ohio Oil stock,"
I Lyman Is reported to have said, "and It
I Jumped up from ISO to 260 In a short
I time The funny part of It Is that If
! I twit actually Invested the money thsv
gnf nie III that stock I would have
mad" more than I did. Yew, I tipped
I 'em to some pretty good stocks. Now
let them tlnd their money If they can."
Ill u reminiscent mood Lyman Is said
1 to have told some of his captors that
the "softest snap he ever hud was sell
the wur nut the quietus on that,
"And If they deported me now." he ls
said to have added, "believe me. I would
mak" straight for Switzerland."
"Ho did ou come to go Into that
tvpe f hushies-," ho was asked, "A
man with our ability and knowledae of
nt..k ouchl to nc able to make enough
p going straight."
"Well." r piled iI.Muati. according to
teiHUt. "I nine had 1401.000 which I
made straight, but It was all swept away
In one transaction and after that I
needed a tot of money In a hurry and I
Rlll ,i tU. u-st way possible
Ills Money Was Taken.
I.vniiiii Itudsled that he had about 134
ftfm tu cash on him when he was arrested
In St. l'sterrburg. Fla., hut that only
$IS.a if tills wus reported by his cap
tors who Included two jwst ottlce In
speetor" from the Florida district, two
members of the St Petersburg lire de
partment and two fllslntereMed citizens.
Tliej all began to search him at once, he
sniil, and took from him the 1 14,000 In
bills that he curried In a lielt around his
waist mid iilsii the taenty Jl.000 bills
which lie n.nl In a wallet in his inside
pocket
Tu one of the post ottlce lnslvtors
who iiccomp.inliNl iilm from Florida Ly
man ilcci.iicil tii.it Ills biislnos at US
Url slr,.,.t , insolvent and that
he. would take steps to have Hecelver
John .1 l.yttle dismissed, He Insisted he
had left town becaii-e one of the sureties
on his lais Angeles tsind, Gorham Tufts,
was ton close on his trail In this city
Lyman will be taken Iwfore a Federal
Uisltict Court Jiidvii at 10:30 this morn
ing noil arraigned .in the Indictment
charging him ultU using the malls to
,(.fr;,Ul Prosecutor Stanton
will ask
that ball be ile.l at IliioOOO
'
SEAPLANE RAID ON BRITAIN,
-
l,.v Killed, No .Military Damage
., m,m urimri,
SveM f.i,f Doiiateh to Tin. 9i.
iMSlHiS. March I. A German sea
' oh. tie Oi.Mlirtit oi.t.ln u ral.t ...a,,,
along the southeast coast of Kngland
according to a War office statement
!rtied to-night A nine. months-old child
w is killed. The statement asserts that
no military damage was done, though
the raider "dropped several bombs." It
Is believe.! in some quarters that to
night's visit Is the forerunner of other
raid..
BABY WORTH $90: MAN $4,000
T
,.,.,. n.hl.P , v,,r. Twins; fiocUl
Insurance' Hill, Flics Values.
h,htiis March 1. Prof. Irvlnur T.
workmen, told the Committee on Social
Vti ltaio at the State Houso to-day that
he estimated the value of a baby to be
ISO,
"And 1 cMlmntr the value of an adult
to hi Jl, Olio," he said. "The value of an
j.ige.l person, by computations under the
iMi,.iiri. -,,s.-in, ncciinies a negative
,, n
- - 'r-
whelm a worker when It comes."
RECORD FOR PENNSYLVANIA.
Grrntrsl of Hnf tlrahlps Nperds
UI.7N Knots an Hour In Trial Han,
fr. . ......
.-.'Minn,,,, . ,n., ..I..CI-II 1 -...w,n a,
record of 21.78 knots an hour, the best
over made by n battleship of her chins
hP Pcninolvaiil.i, the newest and great
est sea iiginer 111 tno world, Is on her
way back to Newport Notvs, where she
wuh built,
A.lH;.rA HI'Kl'IALl iSS P. M. 1IAII.V
A 1 km I. AiltUKts. vis SOUTHERN RAII WAY'
Modern ec,urineut, N. T. Office, :t rVnh ir:
Special Cable Dttpatch to Tns Sir.
London, March 1. The first day of
the new Austro-German submarine war
the decree announcing destruction
without warning of armed merchantmen
became effective last midnight was
ushered In by the sinking of two Llrltlf.li
steamships, the Thornaby, of 1,73- tons,
and the Malvlna, of 1,244 tons. All
aboard the Thornaby are said to have
been killed or drowned. It Is believed
she wus sunk In tho Mediterranean. The
Malvlna Is reported to have been tor
pedoed off the Kentish coast. Nothlnc
has yet been learned concerning her fate.
A late despatch received by Llotd's
' to-nlglit save tho Thornaby's sinking
To-day being the date on which the
new Austro-German campaign began,
the loss of these two vessels was nat-
, orally associated with It. There Is iwth-
i... in ,i, ,,r.iimiii.iru ,i-..t,....- i,u..
evvr , nuu-iite that the Thornaby or
the Malvlna came under the bead of
vessels against which the new warfare
Is directed. Neither Is bellevd to have
carried arms, even for defensive pur
poses. .Moreover, the sinking of the t'o
vessels, even If the Thornaby wn tor
pedoed, Is not utiiiMial, us tin. German
submarines hate been d.-.stru l:ig allied
" r" ""''""
,r"'r',,Mnd' taK,ns ",hl pr 0,"er rM'
sous.
Mtr Hdwnrd irr' Statement.
Sir Kdward Grey, the Foreign Secre
tary, to-day authorized lie following
statement:
The assumption apparently made bj
the German Government that nil llrit
Ish tuerch.iiit ships are armed is en
tirely Incorrect. Practically all Hrlt
Ish merchant ships employed In trade
between the Unlte States- of America
and the United Kingdom have hitherto
been unarmed.
The claim therefore made bj tlv
German Government to sink all' Hrlt
sh merchant ships at sight becim. of
their annamen, I. one which cannot
possibly be Justified.
This Is clearly proved by the Mate
ment Issued last night giving a lis: of
Prltlsh and neutral unarmed merchant
ships which have been torpedoed by
German submarines without warning.
lirrmans Mn) Wall.
The general opinion Is that the actual
campaign as set forth. In th. recent -ier-
man memorandum to the neutrals will
not begin In any spectacular w.i. p.,r
tlcuarly In view of the still undeter
mined questions which He ut the basis
of the German-American subiu.ulno con
troversy. The Mediterranean. It Is believed, w'll
be the chief ecepe of the now L" boat
operations, iitat attacks are also looked j ves thele wus not such confidence. She
for In the Adriatic, where the Austrluns. is the only Hrltlsh liner In northern
from their base at Pola, are expected waters, but the French liner Lafuvette.
to do all In their power to prevent traf-' which lett lust Saturday, should is- In
tic. In supplies and munitions, as welt as the danger zone off the Trench coast
the passage uf transports between the 1 next Saturday
Italian coast towns and Avion.., the neM Of the boats going to the Mtditei
objective of the Austrian and Utilitarian, runeau. the one that Is being watched'
Invaders In Albania. most closely by shipping men is the '
The number of members of the Thor- Giuseppe Verdi, the new Italian lliier
nub's crew Is not known here nor "JUid whkh sailed yesterday afternoon. She
be learned to-night whether pusseng-rs carries two rapid Are guns, mounted
were on board. The vessel was built Ii. aft with 11 crew of six expert gunners. 1
lu und hulled from West llartlepj....
She was engaged In freight trade Tie
Malvlna was an old vee, bii.lt 1,1
Is 7l, and hulling from Lelth
BERLIX PLEDGES STAS'L).
Hut Armed Merchantmen re .Not
Included, a German ottlclHl.
IHu 'if Vnttul Vr.)
1Ji:ki.in (via Suyvllle wlieUss), Mutv.i
I. "Germany's memorandum .l-elming
that armed merchantmen In the .'utuie
will he considered as warship does not
change the pledges Ambas.uli,. yu
HenistorrT gave the Amvilcan Govern
ment, lieeause when they wejf ..Iven no
such thing us un uinuM nierchunt liner
was thought of," dcelured Huron .Mumni
von Schwarzenstelti of tts; Foreign Oltn
to the United Press to-day.
"When Germany titnil" ll;n-c
pledges," he continued, "she never
dreuim'd that the Hrltlsh Government
would Instruct merchant liners to con
duct offensive warfare.
"For tills reason the tno 1 Ionian
statements remain distinct und separate,
"Tho first, as made by Ambassador von
Iternstorff, applies to liners us thc
should be to conforih to International
law, not armed for offensive ptiijios. s.
The second memorandum applies to ships
armed for offensive waif 11 re and also
contrary to International law."
"Along with the necessity for tl:
armament of merchant ships up the high
seas the privilege' of aiming ineichiinl
ships disappeared long ago," the Huron
added, 'for cessante rutlone legls cos-
sut lex Ipsa (when the reason fot the
law ceases, the law Itself ceases I," 1
If perhaps In soino remote local
witters of blackest Africa and ellow est I
China merchant ships may Und It neces- " , "''"""'Hloti contained In the Administration leaders wne mi -sary
to defend themselves this Is done 'de handed by Ambassador von Hern- cocksure to-day as "'. last , 11
spltu of the present general usage not to In Secretary Lansing on October j but they still insisted that the I'-cs !
arm merchant ships. This usage eeitulnly '.', " J'idle.nlon of the sinking of the 1 would easily curry the d.iv boih m i.i
liolds good on the gray Atlantic and te , , T'"" r Ari,hl, WilN know. . House uml tin- Senate Mum are r.
blue Mediterranean. "" y r"''st' this memorandum th cllned to behevc the Pre intent can
"But this question can tahe a luck ,"'1",'"'l Government stated that It had will mow in strength ufiet me n,s-
seat, for tho merchant vessels ot our r.'7' ," rt'',,'r,'' ,rom Gtrlleulenant flurry over his evtr.tordln.11 v deminds
enemies am not only urni..,i fn, ,in. Schneider, oinmander of the suhtnarlne has subsided
fenslvo hut also for offensive .i....u,s., .
This In clearly proved by the Hrltlsh Ad
miralty orders which fell Into our hun.b'
1.00K at these and you will see thu ul
tliougTi there nro headlines to throw dust
Into people's eyes by speaking of de
fenslvely armed ships, yet they instruct
Inrtri-him, iv.tiut Ia. t,.u . .
open tire at 11 range greuter than son
varrf. 1,1,1,,. th .,.ml. i,., ,.i
opened lire.' and they Instruct shli-si'iiir-
sued by submarines 'to open lire In self. 1
defence, notwithstanding that tho sub
marine, may not have committed 11 defi
nite hostile act, such as llting 11 gun or
torpedo.'
"Furthermore, a long list oi HiiiIhI.
merchantmen's .Hack on li.'i'man sub.
marines which simply slguullid them to
Jialt, which list was iniiniiiinlcntcd 1,1
Ills American Government, but wJi:...
unfortunately seems not to hn leaniied
Washington, will prove convincingly lo
the American peoplo the true mianlna '
of thesu Instructions. We do not men-1
I lor. fnrlh. nrnnf Ik. fT., ' ,
lion at furtntr proof lh German tub-'
murium that tot at the bottom of the
sea, -whoso gallant crows can no more
raise their accusing voices against the
violation of International law to which
they fell victim."
WHITE STAR QUITS.
xiisppiid Passenger Service aad
Will Carry Only Monitions.
The White Star Line withdrew yes
terday from the passenger carrying ser
vice, betwon this country and Kngland,
announcing that Its three big ships, the .
Lapland, Ilnltlc and Adriatic, will take
no reservations on thN side. Two other
ships, the Kroonland and Finland, are to
be trausferied to the American Line of
the International Mercantile Marine and
will sail under the American flag.
Although yesterday marked the begin
ning of Germany's new submarine cam
paign tli ottlclals of the line declared
that this I mil nothing to do with the
change, which they say Is made solely
beciitine of the need for munitions car
riers to the other shli.
A cltcular letter was sent yesterday
to nil the agents of the White Mar Line
throughout the country Informing them
... .. .11 r,.rvatlons on the
three blL' shins an- to be cancelled. The
Lapland I" scheduled to sail next I The ending of a day of many confer
Wednesday, the llaltlc on Mutch 14 and lences found the rreMdent determl d to
pleased to have ou book Incpjlrltig pas-j t0 the "'es Committee of the Hoiiv.
sengers on any of the Match sailings of und standing firm against any compro
I the American Line."
I'o Curry Manltloas Only.
The rumor that the White Star Line
tleet Is to be used for munitions ex-
cluMvily u continued by the circular.
I it was also learmd at the offices of the
line that the Adriatic, which reached
. Liveri'isil !ut Saturday, is being over-
. haul"! for the. purpose and will r.ot sail .
f.,r at least ten days. Part of the over-
' hauling consists In tearing out all steer -
:,.. ac.on.mo.iut ons ana pan 01 nc
; other passenger Ilttlngs In order to give
' . ... . . ...... ,. 1.
.. ' "
lll'll " rti'savs 4 nv uih
, ship will b- inci eased by l.OBO tons In , the llules Committee tu'se the mat
. this way. making It possible for her to , ,. te hand-" nolo
I tske .omethlng like ls.uOO tons of war , 'r" w" " '"" ' -"- '
1 supplies to Kngland on one trip. , t-hJlnnan Iu.
The change Is not to be of long dura- This statement by Ml. I'ou hail t.i" el
Hon. it Is understood. The Lapland Is
1. 1 return to the passenger service 011
,..,n f. Km tt, ii.it., ,,r it,., ii.iii,.--
r,lfn, i t Id.owti. nor Is It said
wi.n.., the Adtlutl.: is to remain a
'""The HaUU w-'s.o hiwe sailed Jester-
duy from llngland. If she did she l.s
now directly III the operating zone of
..It. ,'i,...r. ...tiv .iiii.i.i? jn,u -.llll
denlly yesterday that they believe her
to be safe, inasmuch as she Is known to
li.. unarm. I. but In other shlnntnir re
mere were only about 110 passengets
aboard her whn she left, in contrast to
the I.., mi who left on her last trip. She
also niriied 11 large cargo, much of
which was machine oil.
Other Mili rar llangrr .one.
Shli.pliu men expressed a belief that
the vess.1 will harillv get through with
out un attempt on her being made. She
is the v ungual.! of the Italian armed
ships, and to send her to the bottom
would be un Inaugural blow for the
Gernn..i campaign.
Thele me other ships In the Medlter
i.iiiea.i The White Star liner Cretlc
Mm nld In ut iillnulti.r to-day. With h-r
will be the Italia, which sailed on Feb
1 nary M for Naples. The Italian I.lov.l
liner Tiiortulna win also enter the zo'n
lii-daj or to-morrow. The Navlgazlmie
Geiierali Italian.! liner America, due
lieie on Sunday, Is clfnr of the danger
Zone.
The tlrst day of the new stibnurliie
r.imp.ilgn brought no change 111 war
rlsl, tnten on the local market. There
bus been a considerable stlfteuiuit In ull
tiunsuiluntlc quotations for two wviks
past, anticipating the Introduction of the
campaign, and the feeling among marine
tin.lerw titers rule" that there vvi t. Un
fiiither rise until actual destruction of,
merchant vessels Indicates Increusol'
danger.
DEAD MAN "ACCUSED" ARABIC.
r lloal Itllli-er looteil by llerlln
Lost Willi Xlilp. v,, lirltnln.
"T ' "rli says this morn-
""" "r'"-u e.overnnient lias in
f,.irni;i,.ll1' upon which to base a charge
--aiik the Arabic, und also from
oilier members of the crew that the
commander did not order the sinking of
the Arabic until he became convinced
that the liner was trying to ram tho
submarine
The Hrltlsh Government, the 7'lmes
su.vs. now states positively that .. iirii.
r,',"'l b""1 destroyed the sub.
murine nfter the sinking of the Arable
"'"leutniint Schneider went
i'"" . wlh hlH v"""', l-27. The ,
' :'' ;' "', 1,1 suiinieii its tiifor- x Tense Mlnsllon.
mutton for mnntliH, walling for an ad
mission bv Ihn German Government timt H has been a long time :n,-e iir
the Hubiuurliio wuh lost. Recently 1111 !'" ,,, n 11 iUy 11K ,p"!" ''" ,m' "' ' f
otll.lal leqnist was made by the Herllli ''.ills of Congress. The Preildent s 1I1
Governnieiii through Ainhassador Pure termination to forte u vote on the M,
t I....- .1 .. ... . l.. u. ,....ll!n,,tun,,l.,,MI-.l.A
i.m- iiii.iiiiiiiiiuii wueiner one Willu-lm
Sihtilt., a warrant machinist on the
I'-'.';, was a pilsoner in Faightud
""" 1 '
imh.v sKKVIt'K TO AI'lllMx, mn,
COMI'AM'MKNT v.n Tl Till Ks.,
"JT.-.tlniitl t'tust blue, i.fnves litis ji
ThrOHSll MSlHI'lKt Slerpfr lill-. Mnlllgi, ar
tervive, umce, a uJ ;tti -A,.
Many CoiitVivincs rail
Bring Agreement on
Warning.
In
H0ISK REFl'SKS To
VOTK A8 DEMANDED
Leaders Say President
Would Be Beaten in
a Test.
CHAIKMAN FLOOD TO
SEE WILSON TO-DAY
'
-,, , .
KllleS Committee ill TllUe
i
Matter in Own Hands.
Says Ton.
washinotov, March 1. The I'm
dPI,t and the leaders of Congress have
.,.., fu , .
,MU!' far ,0 rttfard to a
voi " ' submarine Issue.
mlse. A decisive vote on the resolution
warning Americans off armed passen.
ger t-hlns was Instate,! tm.iti I,i ti.a
' i,,..!.,.,
Jlepresentatlve I'ou ot No-th Carol ns
acting chairman of th- Utiles deimilttee.
n-side an announcement to-night that in
dicates that the Administration may re
I sort to heroic method" to force action
, In the House.
"CnlesM the Foreign. Affalts Couiimtt.e
' . , .,
reports a resolution In mn nrm 1. ,Vi
' lh. .., .... fc."V...."
VI --v luns' ' mi- 1 "-fiipjiu
foct of Inflaming 'nil ient union.,- t.ne
. ., ,. L ...
1 Democratic revolters Th-J said that nc
I tlon as suggested by M.. P.ni would !w
r...i.iiin
! UiHh" 1 """ '- "
I Tlif-y recalled that only once 11 '.-,i
j years hud the Itul.- Commune, -.vlttch
fas!ilon gag and Jam rules, stepped into
I the Jurisdiction of another House com
I mlttee.
Done 011 I or re nc Hill,
Thin was in the c.isc of the 1 .oi'ri.tr
on Hanking and Ctirieno. wlncli iiinle
the guidance of former lb preeiit it vs
Fowler of Ni w ,ler-ej ,,, tc'11-i.t ,.
net on the Aldrli li-Vi.elnd currency
bill. Mr I'ou did not -ic how long the
Hubs Committee won!.! ..wait the pie:,...
lire of the- PorclMi AtTlrs Coinmlttec
He gave the impr.s-lon that this vvooM
dipind iim the Adinlnlstratloi' Ponlii
Is expressed that 1 in.iloilty of the ltjle
Committee Is In -vmputhy with actlne
Chulrniaii I'ou.
The tinceit.unt to whit tin Holes
Committee may 1..1 . . t c ive'it tit t!'
Admlnlsttatlou calls ui'.-n 'I to act 1 ' 1 1 -trate
Impresslvily t ! gnurl In whli:!
President Wilson mid hi 'nn an- In
volvt d,
The 1 nnst'Tnatioi. ut Congiess was
greater to-day even man 11 was last
ntclit when the Piesnient unexpected!
ent his letter to acting Chulrmii'i I'ou
Many attempts wee made b the le:nes
to get together and lie, Jde Upon rioin
detlnlte prograimne, bin to-night alt
these etforts had tuibd and the l!ou..
leadeis decided to end 'halrinau Fln.vl
to the White Iliiii.. to-morrow morning
to see if a more detlmie iinrlerstaiidinii
with the President could be reached
At 11 IlleellliK Of tile C illse Comnill '
on Foreign Affairs .111 c tempt was made
to it-ill to the I'rc-I.lenl's sllggeslion
and icpoit out the McLemorc nsolin n
warning Americans off armed shut
This aiii mid wus howled down in 'lie
committee und the Incident disclosed n
fact thrtt only four of th" sixteen mem
bers who wero present sremed dispo-erl
to stand by the l'lesldeili's wishes
Monti- I fnnttilenl, ,
Al 'he same time oil the llool of tile
Iloip-e and lii the lobbies coiiUdcm ...s-er-tlons
the kind thai wet,, heard u wiel.
or tiiore ago- -were being mi.hI. by liom
ocrutlc leaders that if tin aimed mer
chantman resolutions wire Immediutely
put to a vole, as the Pii'iiliit had re
quested, they would be passed b the
Houso
There wus no doubt that iii.i-.x 11.1
bcrs of Congiess weie inkr oei ii-
turn affairs have taken and were 1 ri,
of showing their reentment h vol
against the President
One fateful estimate prepared bv d
ministration lenders in emigres., shone..
there would be a margin of at least
votes against the resolution In tin lloii"i
The President's advisers iea tr, bn
ror, that this tlgure is altogether t"5
close and lh. Congress leaders contKiv.
a victory for the President bv stnh
iiittrow inaigln would be more du.i'tmui
to this Governmetit's foreign policy thai
a continuance of the pn-ent tincertair
situation.
i.cnu n r,,
all tin- fenr thin m.i 11 1 fos t .it itself
week or more ago mining Congrexnis
m ri'gaid t the po- hllltj of u hie 1
with Getmuny.
Added to this panl.i.v feelln; r
man) unceititlntl'.t over the pi.lii ,ii pi.
hIM Itifh involvrd In the nre -ent Mtos
Hon, Helwetn the two the- avcragi: On.
