FINANCIAL EDITION
ittlQtt
NIGHT
EXTRA
ifamtum
NIGHT
EXTRA
:cr t
VOI.H.-NO. 14G
PHILADELPHIA, THTJKSDAY, MATIOH 2, 1910.
COPIEIOni, 1016, BT HIE FCSUO I.KDOIR COJtrAHt,
PRICE ONJB OUJtfT
-m
AN
I.
GERMANS RENEW SMASHING
ASSAULTS IN WOEVRE ZONE;
BOMBARDMENT BLAZES WAY
Paris Admits Attack
' on Front East of Ver
dun French Sacri
fice Men, Berlin Says
ction Centres at JL'Tesnes,
Seven Miles Southeast of Ar-
gonne Stronghold French
etake Trenches in Uounter-
ovo
I Fort do Vaux, on Douaumont Line,
Bvncuatcd, Report From German
Sources Crown Princo Rumored
Ousted in Favor of Wurtemberg
Duko
PARIS, March 2.
German troops late yesterday after
noon renowed their tcrrinc assaults In
I the Woevro region on tho front to tlio
!tst of Verdun. The nssaults wero
I launched following a violent bombnrd
t ment of the French lines by tho German
V artillery. ' ,
1 The centre of tho attack was at
Fresnes, but tho communique Issued by
tho War Offlco this afternoon states that
I French troops repulsed tho assault on
i Fresnes, which Is seven mH.es southeast
' of Verdun, and nlso recaptured In n
-counter attack some trench sections which
the Germans had penetrated In their first
drive.
'The text of tho communique follows:
"In the Artols district, east of the road
from Newvllle to La Folio wo exploded a
mine beneath an old crater which the
enemy had occupied. We captured tho
new crater.
"In tho region of Vordun the enemy
bombarded violently during the night 'La
Mort Homme' ('Tho Dead man') and tho
Ole,' as well as tho principal crossings of
thp Meuse. There was little activity by
artillery to tho east of the Meuse.
"In the Woevro region, after a violent
preparation with artillery, tho enemy di
rected late yesterday a sharp attack on
our positions at Fresnes. Ho was Imme
diately driven by our counter-attacks from
Bome trench sections which ho had suc
ceeded In penetrating.
"In Lorraine a bombardment of several
hours directed against St. Mario farm, to
the west of Bezange, was followed by an,
enemy attack whioh was complotely
. checked.
"In Alsace some attacks directed by
istrong German patrols on our small posts
'W&
a f in th vnllflv nf thft T.nuch were renulsod
"'.It with grenades." " ( ,
TtP!T?T.TV "Hfnrnli 5 nnnAttrprl efforts nf
the French to recapturo Fort DoUaumont,
' northeast of Verdun, "from tho Germans
j havo been unsu'cccroful, the German War
' Office announced tosy.
The main positions on the west 'front
iemaln unchanged,
' Jn the region of the Yscr tho British
(.and Belgians have bombarded the German
i lines violently
Following Is the text of the official
! report:
'The positions are unchanged.
"In the Yser region (West Flanders),
I 4hl AnAmv niHltArv wnn vpv npMvA
f , "On the eastern bank of the Meuse tho
v French were unsuccessful
In counter
ngalnst our
Attacks which they made
troops In Fort Douaumont."
t'
AMSTERDAM, March 2.
The French have evacuated Fort do
Vaux, one of the Verdun forts, two miles
southeast of Fort Douaumont, according
to unconfirmed reports from German
sources.
The position. It was stated, was
wrecked by German artillery fire. TTront
the heights south of Douaumont, the
French have played steady streams of
fire, over the ruins of the fort and the
Germans have been unable to occupy It.
After taking Dieppe, Berlin reported,
the Germans moved up heavy howitzers
and began a bombardment of Fort de
Vaux. At the same time an artillery and
Infantry attack was delivered against
Fort de Tavanres, the next of the Ver
dun forts south, of De Vaux. The French
hurled back this attack at the railway
station at Elx, but were pushed back upon
De Vaux and finally forced to abandon
It
If the Amsterdam reoort la true, the
I Oermans have now wrecked two of the
I forts defending Verdun from the north
east, fort Douaumont having been de
I etroyed by shell Are several days ago.
Fprt de Vaux lies about Ave miles north
i east of Verdun.
I Travelers arriving here todav renorted
the Geramns are concentrating heavily
In the Argonne, having sent 80,000 rein
forcements Into the Argonne woods in the
) Past few days. It Is-believed the Crown
i Prince will renew the Verdun offensive
Continued on Pate FItc. Column One
1 THE WEATHER
I JLThIs ,s onB of those days for which
-- nwuicv man preuicia "rain or snow, "
Just as If there was very little difference
between rain and mow. Ttut tn nm. .,
f of thinking Jt Is about as reasonable to
predict "rain or snow" nu if unuin ha 4n
Iv'J ??M rall or shine," It may be true
S l . !now ,a largely composed of water,
ft J but there the similitude ends. Snow Is
uww and hopeful thing, while rain In
winter seems quite uselessly and merely
oppressing. You can't pelt high hats with
ratnballBj nor build In the back yard a
woman. There are other predictions that
n rorecaster bunches together as If they
were similar, although they are not; for
instance, he will predict "Cold wave:
lUttDeratUrn tt -fall ..AM ia i. , .i
lflut there may be all the difference In
w i world between those alternatives. A
2L'V aye may be the finest thing In the
in. 7." U" Qttly l0 degrees colder: and
MtH . mfy" ,beme most undesirable and
p B"lv f It drops 20 degrees.
Ulnerwlan thaiwacikA. .... j -Li
M4 we are T for him?" ' "'"" " "" "K"1
FpIfECAST
t-W i St
mattlu narthmnaf
for detaila aee page A.
. . i;OST And found
t RUUffHTAa . I i- - .
rAo7 No i?oVf "S- Pobrewokl BulW-
1 SAf11, tonight; Friday
VIA,?UahtV ; moderate winds
a"T .v jtt. Pnon Ijcuat 18ia J.
Lst and Vi4Aaa4 Paj It
lai8;seassw5gCTs?sat?
DUKE ALBRECHT OF
WURTEMBERG
Placed in command of tho Gor
man offensive at Verdun, sup
planting the Crown Prince, who
has been called to Berlin for some
unknown reason.
GERMAN RAIDER
M0EWE REPORTED
TAKEN BY BRITISH
Auxiliary Cruiser Falls
Into Hands of Warsliip
Off Brazilian Coast
CHASED OVER ATLANTIC
BUENOS AIRES, Argentine, March 2.
Reports that tho Oerman auxiliary cruiser
Moewe, the commerce raider which cap
tured tho Appam and sank many other
British ships, had been captured off the
coast of Brazil reached maritime agents
In this city today.
According to the rumors, tho Moawe
was pursued across the Atlantic Ocean by
a British cruiser and finally taken. Sim
ilar reports also reach Argentine Govern
ment omclals, but they stated they had
no confirmation.
The report of the capture of the Moewe
came from Montevideo, a dispatch from
the Uruguayan port stating that the Ger
man raider had been taken to Trinidad.
This also said that the Moewe had nar
rowly escaped from a French cruiser oft
the African coast, being severejy damaged
by the French gunners before It got away.
The French cruiser communicated the
whereabouts of the Moew? to the English
cruisers, the Montevideo advices said, and
these took up the chase.
The presence of the Moewe In the At
lantic was first made known when the
British liner Appam steamed Into Hamp
ton Roads, wlth.a prlzo crew aboard. It
was then learned that, prior to tho cap
ture of the Appam off'the Canary Islands,
the Moewe had overhauled and sunk six
British vessels, taking off the crews. Since
the capture of the Appam the Moewe is
credited with taking the following ships:
The Westburn (British). 2018 tons, from
Liverpool January 21 for Buenos Aires.
Captured.
The Flamenco (British), 2959 tons, from
Buenos Aires January 8 for Bordeaux,
Last reported at Gibraltar January 20,
Sunk. ,
The-Horace (British), 2133 tons, from
Liverpool for Buenos Aires. Last re
ported at Montevideo January 14, Sunk,
probably on return trip.
The Edlnburgh(Brltlsh). 1406 tons, from
Rangoon September 22 for Liverpool.
Sunk.
The Cambridge (probably Cobrfdge). re-
Continued on Fare 1'onr, Column Two
SAY LAD THREATENED
TEACHERS AT Y.M. C. A.
Chemist, Who Failed, Accused
of Writing He Would Kill
His Instructors
A youth accused of sending threatening
laHnru in his Instructors In the Central Y.
HM.C. A., anouncing his Intention of kill-
lntf them, was arresiea in a pogiroom
Oxford street above 3d early today, after
the police had been 'trailing" him for
several days. The prisoner gave the name
of F.aul Zagas, He la 21 years old.
Zagas was recently a student of chem
istry in the school of the Y. II. C. A.
He failed to pass an examination con
ducted by the State, and was unable to
procure a license. lie attributed his fail
ure to the faculty He Is accused of
sending threatening letters to J. Leeds
Clarkson, educational director ot the
Institution, and J. D. Brewster, Instructor
of foreign classes, and to Lee Fountain,
house manager of the Y. M C. A. The
first letter was sent several months ago.
Others followed periodically until Feb
ruary 13. when the case was reported to
the police.
y.airas was arraigned la Central Station
and MJ ln4S0tt5aH for n further nearmg. i
SI will ffSke, an examination Into
fiJ5jiona i
Wa4,pvt8i.1EP'Jlonl
MINERS' BOARD FILES REPORT
Philndelphian Aids in Probe of Colo
rado Strikes
WASHINGTON. March 2. The com
mission appointed to incstlgato the'C'olo
rado coal strike, consisting of Seth Ldw,
of Now York, for tho public ( Charles R.
Mills, of Philadelphia, for the operators,
and Patrick Kllday, of Clearfield, Pa., for
the miners, presented Its report to Presi
dent Wilson today.
nni?i? nrmrri?a rjimi a TJwirrknFWV
WHO SAID WILSON "FAVORED WAR"?
WASHINGTON, March 2. During tho exciting debate on the sub
marine issue in the Senate this afternoon, Sc'nator Gore created a pro
found sensation by declaring ho had "learned from high authority" that
at one of the conferences between President Wilson and members of
Congress the President had said that "a state of war might not be a
bad thing for this country, as it would bring the war to n conclusion in
the middle of the summer and in that way the United States would be
performing a great service to humanity."
"I do not know whether this is true," said Senator Gore. "I tell
the tale as it enme to me, but it came in such a way from such high
authority and with such earmarks of truth that it hardly can be doubted."
"I wish in all fairness to state that the President never stated to
me or in my hearing that he believed in any way that war between the
United States and the Central Powers would be desirable or would result
in good for the United States," said Senator Stone.
"I was informed that tho President told the Senator from Missouri
that the participation of the United States would bring the war to a
close by the middle of the summer. Is that right?" demanded Senator Gore.
Senator Stone said he had not attempted to quote what the President
had told him nnd that he did not propose to do so.
$86,794,250 LOAN
BILL OFFERED IN
COUNCILS TODAY
Chairman Gaffney, of Fi
nance Committee, Intro
duces Measure
BEFORE VOTERS IN MAY
$35,000,000 Provided for Tran
sit Art Museum
Excluded
Tho initial step toward placing a mu
nicipal loan of J86.794.250 beforo tho
voters at tho presidential primary of May
10 was taken this afternoon when Chair
man Gaffney, of tho Finance Committee,
ot Counpils, Introduced.af Mil signifying
tho Intention of Councils to Increase tho
city's Indebtedness.
The bill Is as follows:
Section 1. The Select nnd Common
Councils ot tho city of Philadelphia do
ordain, That It Is tho desire of tho cor
porate authorities of tho city ot Phila
delphia, which desire la hereby signified,
ihii tl.n Indebtedness of the said city
shall be Increased In the Bum of eighty
six million, seven hundred and ninety
four thousand, two hundred and fifty
(.86,794,250) dollars for tho following pur
poses, to wit:
Toward the erection anil cpn-
Btructlon of the main bullulnir
of the Freo Library ot Phila
delphia, or for the completion
ot the main bulldlns ot the
Kree Library, etc............ JS.tOO.OOO.OO
To pay damoBex for tho nerMo- .
fora authorized openlnp, widen-
tmt and chonelnK ot srade ot
streets, construction of sowers.
condemnations for parks nnd
other purposes 4,ioooo0 00
For mandamuses. .. , 300.0QO.uu
Toward the abo Won of crude- ...,.
crosslnes. South Philadelphia. 8.90.i:0.00
Toward acquisition ot property.
erection und construction of
scnase disposal plants anil
Mwem. of Franltford Creek ,
Toward the acquisition of prop
erty and Improvement of the
Parkway 10,000.000.00
To pay for property heretofore
taken and to be tulten for ,,..,...
Falrmount and other parks... LJlj-j"-''
Construction of main sewers ... t.000,000.00
Construction of main sewers In
Hlsler nnd Packer streets ... tOJ.000.00
Construction of branch sewers. 1,000.000.00
Construction of bridees I5222S"SH
KepaWnB streets SSS'SSS'SS
llradliib- streets ;52'5?9 .
Improvement of country roads.. 250.000.00
Paving Intersections S60.000.00
Improvement of the following
branches of the Poulovard:
Ilenaalem. Holme and Poques-
sine avenues (00,000.00
To pay for work heretofore done
and materials heretofore fur
nished In the Improvement of
Ij-UKue island Park and Uov-
ernment avenue and for the
further Improvement of the
South Ilroad Htreet Unulevard.
Plaza, Leasue Island Pnrk und
Government uvenue 1,150,000.00
For Improvement ana malnten-
ance of the water supply 600,000.00
For Installation of meters..... 25,000.00
Toward the purchase of ground
for and erection und construe-
tlon of police and lire stations. 650,000.00
Purchasing new and motorizing
present Are uppuratus 200,000.00
Toward purchase and Installation
of machinery and tools, and
equipment of municipal repair
shop .. 100,000,00
Towurd improvement and altera
tions at the House of Cor-
recllon ., V"f 89.000.00
For the construction and Im
provement of wharves and
Continued on rage Three, Column Two
PRESIDENT HAS FAITH
IN GERMAN-AMERICANS
Wilson Tells Editor of Abend
Post He Believes in Their
Loyalty to U. S.
WASHINGTON", March 2. President
Wilson today expressed confidence lit the
German-American publishers of the coun
try. He conferred for 30 minutes with Paul
F. Mueller, president of the National Asso
ciation of German Publishers and editor
of the Chicago Abend Post. He told
Mueller he. was firmly convinced of the
loyalty of the great majority of American
citizens of German birth In this coun
try. He feels, he said, that some who
claim to speak for the Uerman-Amerjcans
do so without the consent of the vast ma
jority. The Appointment for Mueller with the
President was made at the request of
Senator Lewis and State Senator Kent
E. Keller, of Illinois.
Following the conference, Mueller said :
"I am delighted to have had the oppor
tunity to talk with the President. He is
a fine and generous man. t believe that
the Germans In this country are loyal
nd I knor that I for one. am as loyal as
American bora in, this country."
STORMY DEBATE IN SENATE
ON U-BOAT TILT; HOUSE BALKS
IN STRUGGE WITH PRESIDENT
T),
RIXEY DECIDES
TO TRAIN; SIGNS
1916 CONTRACT
Southpaw No Longer a
Holdout Accepts Terms'
Offered by Phillies
NO SALARY INCREASE
0jS
EPPA RIXEY
Eppa Hlxey, tho giant southpaw of tho
Phillies, has signed his contract for 1916
and every Philly player Is now under con
tract with the exception of Gar. Cravath.
Gabby, however. Is perfectly satisfied with
the, terms offered und will bring his signed
document to St. Petersburg with him.
Itlxey was holding out for more money,
but did not get It.
President Baker received a letter from
Itlxey in which the lanky Virginian asks
permission to report a few days after the
rest of the squad, as he is teaching at the
Episcopal High School, In Washington,
nnd must fi d a substitute. It Is believed
that Hlxey's desire to dodge the spring
training trip was more responsible for hla
hold-out than a desire to have his salary
Increased.
Acting on the advice of Manager Moran,
who refubed, to stand for a "hold-up,"
President Uaker refused to grant Hlxey's
request for a larger salary and notified
him that he must sign at once or he would
not be allowed to Join the team after
the season opened.
For several seasons Itlxey has tried
to dodge the training trip and until last
spring was successful. The benefit of the
training trip was noticeable In the im
provement of Itlxey last summer, but he
still must be considered a disappointment.
Itlxey has a wonderful physique and great
natural ability, but Is Inclined to blow up
when he gets In a tight place.
GERMANS QUIT LISBON;
WAR RUMORS SPREAD
Kaiser's Ministor to Portugal
Reported Preparing to
Leave Today
LISBON, March 3. Sixty leading mem
bers of the German colony left hurriedly
for Spain today br receipt of reports that
Germany- Is about to declare war on
Portugal. The majority of the German
business houses have been closed.
It la rumored the German Minister will
leave Lisbon this afternoon. No confirma
tion or this report was obtainable at the
Embassy or the Foreign. Office, but It la
generally believed there will be Important
developments within 24 hours.
The President conferred until a late
hour last night with his cabinet and also
with other political leaders who were sum
moned to the foreign office. The reply
to the German demands is said tq have
been framed at this conference and to
have been telegraphed t,o Berlin before
midnight.
AMSTErtDAM, March I.
"Germany Is prepared to declare war
on Portugal immediately in the event ol
an unsatisfactory reply to the note de
manding the release of seld German
ships," e&id a dispatch (rota Berlin to24Y,l
Hjp- " vJH 1
Stone, Lodge and Wil
liams Join Demand
That a Test Vote Be
Taken
Wilson's Ultimatum Lets It Bo
Known That He Will Insist
Upon a Record Ballot May
Be Taken Tomorrow
Republican Leader Mann Invited to
White House to Confer on Situa
tion Stirring Scenes at tho Cap
itol Unparalleled Since the Spanish-American
War Days
WASHINGTON. March 2. The storm
over tlio President's demand for n show
down In tlio matter of hit negotiations
with Germany brolto In the Senate this
afternoon.
Tlio Senate responded to the President's
demand for consideration nf tho Goro
warning resolution with nenily two hours
of tempestuous debate. At nn early morn
ing session tomorrow tho final vote may
ho taken.
Floods of pent-up oratory wero loosed
In tlio Senate. Renatois Stone. Lodge and
Wllllnmi demnmlctl thnt the President
be given the vote ho nsked.
Possibility of hostilities with Germany
were openly discussed.
Senator Stone, answering a stntcment
by Senator Gore, said ho had not quoted
the President ns Intlmntlng that war with
the Teutonic Allies would bo desirable.
Senator Williams charged opposing
Democrats with "nagging and defying the
President." Senator Lodge culled upon
the Senate to show tho country that Con
gress stands behind the President nnd not
behind Germany.
HOUSE OBDURATE.
While tho Scnato was breaking Into
stormy debate, the House remained obdur
ate ngalnst considering tlio JtcLemore
resolution ns desired by tho Prcshlcnt. A
meeting ot tho Foreign Affairs Committee
was called this afternoon, with final action
possiblo then.
The President delivered an' ultlmntum
during tho day to congressional leaders
that ho would Insist upon a record vote
nnd let It bo known that he will stand by
his position while Congress Is "hearing
from the country."
The EreBldQnt also, took trn. the matter
of Republican support, inviting House Re
publican Leader Mann to confer with him
Into this afternoon.
Stirring scenes, unparalleled since Spanish-American
war days, were brought on
by tho Scnnte debate. Every Senator was
In his Beat. Galleries wero Jammed. Near
ly 100 House members came over nnd
crowded in, standing about the chamber.
The day of turmoil made It practically
certain that the Senate would sustain tho
President, hut the greatest doubt still
prevailed regarding the House's action.
CLASH COMES IN SENATE.
The submarine situation was Injected
Into the proceedings of the Senate to
day dcsplto a general agreement nmong tho
members to refrain from action. Soon after
the morning business had been transacted
Senator William J. Htonr, cnalrninn of the
Foreign Relations f'onim.icee, obtained re
cognition and began a discussion of the
subject. Ho read his letter to President
Wilson nnd tho lattcr's reply which had
precipitated the entire controversy. Sena
tors Lodge and Williams also spoke.
"I can't but believe thnt n belligerent
ship heavly armed, no matter If for de
fensive purposes carrying munitions of
war. Is simply a ship of war," declared
Senator Stone.
He urged that an agreement be entered
Into for bringing the Goie resolution be
fore the Senate at noon tomorrow,
EXECUTIVE'S ATTITUDE.
Senator Stone adrrltted he and the
President were ns In agreement as to
thn armed merchantmen policy. The
Presidents attitude he gave as follows:
'The President Is disposed to support
Continued on Pace Five. Column Two
WILSON CALLED A "COWARD"
AT CITY CLUB LUNCHEON
National Voters' League Secretary
Makes Accusation in Address
Lynn Haines, secretary of the National
Voters' League, an oiganizatlon defined by
him as one "to improve the government"
spoke today at a City Club luncheon, and
accused President Wilson of being a
coward.
"The President," he said, "has become
afraid of his position In International af
fairs, and Is trying to unload his responsi
bilities on Congress "
Sir. Haines also took a rap at Congress,
saying It was overorganlzed with commit
tees, and spent useless money In allowing
its members $125 u month for clerk hire.
CHEMICALS MIXED IN MEAL
Woman Drops Hot Stove Pipe and
Firemen Spoil Breakfast
A stove pipe that refused to "stay put"
this morning caused a tire in a kitchen
In the rear of the notions store of Mrs. J,
Miller, 626 East Allegheny avenue. A
pedestrian, who saw smoke rising from
the building sent In an alarm.
Mrs. Miller endeavored to fix the pipe,
and when it burned her fingers she
dropped It. The walls then caught fire
from the flames. The soot scattered over
a plate of hot cakes and mixed In the oat
meal. Firemen sprayed the flames and
sot and breakfast Impartially with chem
icals. They succeeded In extinguishing
the, bjaze before any great damage was
done except to the breakfast.
Two Caught Prowling in Store
Policeman Murphy, of the 20th and Fed
eral strets station, -while trying the doors
on his beat early today, found one to open
at his touch, at 1311 Point Breeze avenue,
a department store, run by Adolph Curson.
The policeman went Inside and heard
voices. Subsequently he arrested John
Q'Donnell, 21. who said he lived at 1911
Wharton street, and Thomas allien, 22,
who said he lived at 3238 Dickinson
street Murphy said the pair had a lot
of goods packed up ready to take away.
They were held without ball for court by
Magistrate Peunock, In tho Genual sta
W - - - .
QUICK
WEST PHILADELPHIA BOARDER COMMITS SUICIDE
Alexander King, 05 years old, a boarder at 130 North 58th
street, committed suicide in his room today. He was removed to the
West Philadelphia Homeopathic Hospital, where he was pronounced
dead. The police of the 01st and Thompson streets station are mak
ing an Investigation.
MAL0JA MINE VICTIM. CORONER'S INQUEST VERDICT
DOVER, England, March 2. A coroner's inquest today rejected
the theory that tho liner Mnlojn, sunk off Dover Sunday, with a loss
of about 100 lives, was toipcdocd. The vctdict was that tho Maloja
stiuck a mine. Tho testimony of the chief officer that he believed
the liner had bciiii submarined was not supported by other wltucs&cs.
THOUSANDS OF TAILORS STRIKE IN NEW YORK
Is'lCW YOIUC, March 2. Several thousand custom tailors, Including employes
from Hrondwny nml 5th tivcnuo shops, struck today, demanding n 20 per conL
wugo increase nnd u "frco shop" ns n substitute for homo work. Strike leaders
estimate 20,000 workers would bo out before night.
ARTILLERY COMBATS
BERLIN, March 2. "At the northern end of tho cast front thoro wero J
very lively combat.s with nrtlllcry nt several places," the War Office reported.
"There were successful enterprises cnrrled out with German field guns
ngalnst enemy detachments. Northwest ot Alltau n Russian aeroplane was
shot down In a light with ono of our nlr machines nnd tho occupants wero
made prisoners.
"The railway station nt Molodetshno wns successfully attacked by a. squadron
of our nlrmcn,"
HOUSE RETAINS MILEAGE GRAB
WASHINGTON, Mnrch 2. Tho annual fight over the question of mlloogQ
for Congressmen was staged in the House today, nnd tho 20-cent rate per mllo'
was retained In the legislative, executive nml judicial appropriation Jilll. Amend
ments lowering the rate to 5 cents a mile and the payment of actual expenses
were defented by a voto of lfiO to 40.
CITY'S BALANCE AT WEEK-END $8,354,662
The amount paid Into the City Treasury during the week ending last night
was $382,809.30 nnd tho payments amounted to $050,900.34. This, with tho balanco
on hand from tho previous week, not Including tho sinking fund account, leaves
a balance on hand of $8,3Ci4,fiG2.43, deposited In vnrlous banks and trust companies.
NO DEALING WITH GERMANY UNTIL U-BOAT ISSUE ENDS
WASHINGTON. March 2. The State Department ndmltted today that "all
negotiations of any kind whatever with Germnny" havo been held up ponding
action by Congress on the armed merchantmen question and pending tho arrival
of tho appendices to tho German submarine decree-
BRITISH REPLY TO U. S.
"WASHINGTON, JInrch 2. Tho
against man seizures is on its way nore ny man. a oner eamo irora Ambnsi. I
sador Pago todav arrived this afternoon. It was learned that in the renlv -
Great Britain upholds Its uctlon, on the ground that Gorman sympathizers in
tho Western Hemisphere havo put first-clas3 mall to illegal use and that, there
fore, seizures nro Justified.
Great Britain specifically calls attention to tho alleged fact that hundreds
of tons of raw rubber sent from South America by first-class mall havo been
taken. It is tho British contention that
despite the fact thnt first-class postngo is attached. Parcels post, England
contends, is not exempt, as Is first-class mall.
GERMANS INTERNED IN CHILI ESCAPE
LONDON, March 2. A report from Chill is current hero that many members
nf the Interned crow of tho German cruiser Dresden have decamped from tho
island on which they have been kept, and nre seeking to reach Europe. Other
icsldent Germans, it Is said, willingly took tho places of these men so they could
escape.
FRANCE BANISHES NATIVE-BORN AMERICAN
PARIS, March 2. The French Government has expelled from 'Franco Gustav
Adolph Trube, a native-born American, who for four years has been head of the
French Westlnghouse Airbrake Company. Ho was given tho usual delay ot
48 hours to leave French s '!, but there being no steamship departuro within that
period, the French authorities allowed six days' additional grace. Trubo wa
eipelled under tho order against persons suspected of tampering with the national
safety.
CONSCRIPTION GOES INTO EFFECT IN ENGLAND
LONDON, March 2. The Government's conscription act went into cfTeol
today, and early this afternoon machinery wa3 set in motion for Its enforce
ment. Largo proclamations were posted nil over England announcing that
henceforth all bachelors and widowers, eligible under tho net, will be regarded
as soldleis and drafted as needed. The first nine groups, It was said, would
be called up by March 15,
SLAVS IN PERSIA 40 MILES FROM, MESOPOTAMIA LINE
PETROGItAD, March 2. Moving southwestwnrd toward tho positions held
by the British In Mesopotamia, tho IUisslan conquerors of Kermans,h have
arrived within 40 miles of tho Perplan-Turklsh border, according to clayed
dispatches tecelved hero today. CS .,
RUSSIA LIMITS NATION'S MEAT RATIONS
PETBOGRAD, March 2. The food shortage In Russia due to tho war la
beginning to be keenly felt among ull classes of people. The Ministry of Agri
culture announces that meat must only be eaten on live days during the week,
and flour has become so scarce that bread tickets probably will be Issued soon,
The most Important effect of the cattle shortage has been a reduction of the,
meat allowance for the army. Whereas soldiers were formerly allowed a
eavy meat ration, now they get one-half of the former amount.
AGED WOMAN ROLLS BURNING GIRL IN SNOW
A 76-year-old woman probably saved the life of a 17-year-old girl today
when the latter's clothing took fire by ruBhlng her out In the yard and rolling
her In the snow. The girl, Madelene Mason, a nogress, of 1339 Christian street,
Is now In a serious condition In the Howard Hospital, Made e no was. cooking
breakfast today when her apron brushed over the open grate Igniting her
clothes. Summoned by her screams,
boarder at the house, quickly wrapped
In the snow.
RUSSIA'S HUGE BUDGET LAID BEFORE DUMA
PETROGRAD, March 2. An estimated excess of expenditure for ordinary;
purposes of 210,414,280 rubles ($105,207,140) over the estimated revenue Is con
talned In the budget presented to the Duma yesterday. An ordinary expenditure
of 3,232,463,698 rubles ($1,616,231,349) is estimated in the budget This does not
Include the expenses of the war, which are much greater. The cost pf the war
in 1915 amounted to 8.000.000,000 rubles ($4,009,000,000). and this year, It Is ex
pected, will be about 11.000,000,000 rubles ($5,500,000,000). The decrease in the;
revenue derived from alcoholic drinks on account of the ban on vodka la the
most Important factor In the deficit. In 1914 the revenue derived from this
source was 685,000,0(30 rubles ($344,500,000), as compared with 9,000,000 rubier
($4,500,000) last year.
AUTO DRIVER SAVES WOMAN; MAY LOSE OWN LIF$
George W- McKeon, 31 years old, may pay with hie lU-o for Mb Uerate
in steering an auto truck Into a telegraph pole to avoid striking tw mntt wh
were crossing Lancaster avenue at 52d street He Ulna Mrio aanrtttkm in u
"West Philadelphia Homeopathic Hospital.
U'iio. accident occimw &t last. night,
NEWS
ON EAST WAR FRONT
DEFENDS MAIL SEIZURES
British reply .,to tho American protest
such packages constituto parcels" post ":
Mrs. Elizabeth Boyd, also a negress, a,-'
the girl In a shawl and then rolled her
McKeon Uvea at 613 Wwth W !;
A
