rf
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Feb. 2327 Cents.
WEATHER
Arizona Clearing,
Colder north
NOZIUV 'XINSOHdH
MEMBER ASSOCIATED KHE88
VOL. 18, NO. 238.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 2, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
.AM
VERDUN CUJ
FAMOUS BANDIT OF '
WAR TIMES DYING
MAY MEAN
CHANGED
ATTACK
Believed Teutons May Bring
Up Big Guns for Nearer
Effort to Take Great Ver
dun Objective.
ARTILLERY DUELS IN
THE ALSACE REGION
Russian Fighting Light; Ital
ians Take Austrian Posi
tior.s; Germany Issues Ul
timatum to Portugal.
I
' I
1
ii a i
i I
I
FORCES UNITE
BRITISH CAMEL REGIMENT LEAVES CAIRO TO DEFEND SUEZ CANAL
lEIl
CARRANZA
Felix Diaz Said to Have . the
United Forces of Zapata and
Villa Against Those of De
facto Government.
JUNTA EXISTS IN
U. S. SOMEWHERE !
Cole Younger. I
Cole Younger, one of the last of
the famous bandits of Civil war days,
is dying at his home near Independ
ence, Mo., where he was born 71
years ag-o. Younger ha, been out of
prison thirteen years, after serving a
quarter of a centur; in the Minne
sota penitentiary for the Northfield
bank robbery in 1876.
"Lion of the North" Has Al
ready Made an Agreement
with Nephew of. Former!
President for Co-operation.
LONDON. March 1. Germans in
the battle scarred region of Verdun i
continue their bombardment along the
west of the Meuse between M elan
court and Forges.i across the rher
eastward about Vaux and Dam Loup
and against the French trenches in
the Woevre region. The big offensive
so far as infantry attacks are concern
ed have ceased for the moment. Whe
ther they will begin again or not is
not indicated by official reports from
Paris and Berlin.
It is possible the Germans are draw
ing up their b ig guns to the captured
positions with the object .of shelling;
points near their objective Verdun.!
East of Verdun the French have bom- j . i j T I. ID
banied the German positions in the ! Industrial and technical K
Lepretre wood near Thiacourt. Ar
tillery duels are being fought in Al
sace. There has been no resumption
of German attacks in the Champaign
region.
One effect of the German off ens-1
ive is shown in the lengthening of the
m-imm is
i PiPOSUL FOR !
Ill ITI1
ivmi ii in
iiiiLinn
EL PASO. March 1. Felix Diaz,
nephew of the former president, who
is said to have landed on the east
t
coast of Mexico to launch a new revolt, ;
has effected an understanding with j
Zapala and the followers of Villa, ac- i
cording to friends of the latter, who j
stated that conferences held here last
week with emissaries of Diaz resulted ;
in an agreement between the leaders, j
The Junta, it is also said, will be es-;
tablished here but federal officers who ;
examined a number of refugee Mexi-'
cans suspected of being interested are
said to have been unable to obtain
definite information.
Villa followers declared their leader
would co-operate with Diaz. Villa pre-
u j . . .1 . .1 v. ri
jviuunj uau an uiiiiY-imanuiii n uu s.a-
nata. V ilia s principal desire, it Is
said, was to overthrow Carranza and i
he would gtve' and accept aid in ac
complishing that purpose. All Villa
partisans who took part in the confer-:
ences said if they were assured that!
Diaz was amply provided with funds;
WILSON WILL
INSIST ON
RECORD
VOTE
i
i
President Will Take Matter
Before Nation if Necessary;
Would Demonstrate United
Support to Germany.
OPPOSITION CHIEFS
RAISE WHITE FLAG
British camel regiment leaving Cairo. Egypt.
The contest for the supremacy of the Nile and the Suez canal has but begun. If the Germans can but
lead a big Turkish army in a drive across the canal and over the lower valley of the Kile, she can isolate Great
Britain from her far eastern possessions. To combat this attempt. Great Britain is bending every effort to block
such possible moves by concentrating men, ammunition, food and supplies in Egypt. Camels are used extensive
ly in the British operations.
DEMOCRATS FOR i
1 WILSUH AS- ;:
i IrWfi i
LLnULIi :
:
GOLD IMPORTS LARGE.
WASHINGTON, March 1.
The gold imported rinto ' the
United States from January 1
to February 18 amounted to
more than $22,0(58.000. Ex
ports of gold in the same pe
riod amounted $14.9:!9,000, ac
cording to the Federal Re
serve Board.
serve May be Included in the
Bill for the Federalization I to finance a far-reaching revolt, but
rf National C.narA no Proof was furnished of such funds. J
r- l . r j L;
ueiegaies necommena to uic : j 4 .
National Convention. Root
Taken to Task for Criticism j
of President
V if.
I FULL TICKEI
G. 0. P.
is!
'
NAMED
United States Not Satisfied
with Latest Assurances of
Germany; House Machin
ery in Deadlock.
WASHINGTON, March 1 President
Wilson has served notice to Congress
that he will consent to nothing less
than a record vot on anti-Administra-
Ition resolutions to warn Americans off
armed ships of European belligerents
before he goes on with the submarine
negotiations. There will be no com
promise proposition such as a' vote of
confidence in the President" foreign
policy accepted.
Such action, it is held, might be con
strued by Berlin as justifying the opin
ion that the President lacks the sup
port of Congress and his own party in
his demands for full observance of in
ternational Jaw, while its only purpose
V. ATTACK. IN SONORA
DOLiiLA larcti l .iioiis com-
SYRACUSE. March 1. In the key
note speaoh of the jl! form the Demo-!
crats of New- York' state, assembled:
WANTED
WASHINGTON. March -1 The
.
egisiative iramework tor a far-ream- ' v
Rri.ii, tin.. to r.iuau ti. i-.n,.i. inc. industrial, technical reserve in,manoeaDy uosano uaicia. a iormer in informal convention, ratihed the
reinfrrement of ti, rmv nnin,.. siiunort of the militia's fiahtine line 'Dillz officer, were attacked in the Sa- Administration and took to brins
the German advance. The latest offi- in war time was
sketched in thei nuarina district of Sonora last week, j about the re-election of Wilson. Har-
cial reports show the British line ex-' House Committee' preparedness pro- Dut were driven off in a skirmish with , mony marked the deliberations and
tending south to Lens and north of' gram. It was suggested by Congress- j,ne de fart0 troops. Whether Garcia ! every proposal was unanimously j
the Somme, and showing a stretched j man Kahn. of California, as an amend- .con,enlP,a,ed joining the new revolu- j adopted. !
front of hxn-oon thirty ariA f.t, !,. , ,kn :..i nnn: :.. tion which Felix Diaz is renorted to! Th followiiiu' ilflceHtes to th. Na-I
. ' " " . ivn; nielli. IU W l.-llill jc-iiuiii& 111 1 11 ( - - - --- If j. x 1 - y"
miles to the region of Aimes. army increase for a Quarter Masters!De planning cannot be ascertained, j tiunal Convention were recommeiided: Leading IN aval Umcers lnink
III NOD OF
I
PROI
There Is little fighting in Russia. On 1 Corps reserve and adopted without ob-i American mining men returning from I'nited States Senator O'Gorman, Geo.
One Italian front the Italians have oc-! ipct inn Sabuanpa said they were unable to
cupied the Austrian positions at Mt. I xne pian contemplates not only an;reP''n the mines on account of ban
Parmolada. Germany has sent an ul- eCfort t0 enlist a re3erve in. peace 'dits.
umatum to Portugal demanding re- times of ,eamsters, mechanics, rail-!
lease within 4 hours of interned road erg, chauffeu and other non-com! ENVOY APPOINTED
steamers se!zea l.y Portugal, accord- bRtant9 nerPssarv , the armv. butl MEXICO CITY. March l.-Carranza
mg to a dispatch from Madrid.
J. Meyer, Buffalo; Samuel Untermey-!
er. a New iork attorney. It also
adopted a resolution for the re-election
of Norman Mack, of the Buffalo
Times, as National Committeeman.
The delegates, who comprise New
: batants necessary to the army, but
extends its scope to include aviators, i named Juan Sanchez Azcona envoy ex-1 York's "big four", are not pledged
'nrrlnanre enirineera workers in muni-i traordinary and minister plenipoten- i but were nominated with the under-
tion plants wire operators, civil, elec- tiary to Europe with diplomatic juris- standing that they work for a second
ItHrAl onirineera nd everv civil nrofes-1 diction over England, Belgium, b ranee i tern' for Wilson.
; e!on nsofiil to an armv In war (Switzerland. Italy. Spain and Portugal.
counters occurred in our front. One, ., ho on. Azcona formerly was nrivate secre-
of our machines failed to return from I ,jsted ag reserve3 in nghting arms.jtary to the late President Madero. For I thusiasm. In addition to commending milled to Congress by Secretary Dan
MUCH AIR ACTIVITY
LONDON. March 1. A British offi
cial bulletin says: "Twenty air en-
The keynote speech, delivered by
that Selection Instead of Su
periority Should Govern the
Rise of Men in Service.
THE
V.
WASHINGTON. March 1. The pro
motion of naval officers by selection
instead of seniority, the increase of
fifty percent in all grades, the crea
icn of a war reserve and ?he''restora-
tion of the popular old rank of Com-j
n odore, are proposed in a bill drafted
Governor Glynn, aroused much en- by the Navy Personnel Board, trans-
a reconnaisance. Last night to the)iable tQ assignment for duty 5y the1 many years he was a leading liberal I the actions of Wilson, he replied to j iels
north some infantry and machine guns
dispersed the enemy attemptirn to ad
vance from their trenches under cover
of the bombardment. Considerable ar
tillery activity occurred in the neigh
bcrhood of Ypres."
AEROPLANE RAIDS COAST
LONDON. March 1. A correspon
dent from an unnamed town says:
"Shortly after sundown a German
aeroplane passed over the southeast
coast. Several bombs were dropped
killing a child and breaking windows
in houses. The damage was slight. I
! War Department in time of , war. It and well known editor. He will lea vrt j criticisms oi tne i-resicieiu ami ui
i i? expected :the iBitaure , will be com- j Mexico City to assume his duties in j foreign policies made by Elihu Root
i pleted tomorrow, but a new 'effort to the near future. in the recent Republican state conven-
jinorease the strength of the standing! j tion in New York-
army will precede the vote. Another", RECRUITING SCANDAL Denying that Root was the "keeper
change was proposed under which the1 of the national honor", Glynn added
i maximum peace strength will be 200.-! HONOLULU. March 1. - No evi-:ihat "for years Mr. Root was the star
I 000, double the present authorized 1 dence was obtained that the British ; Performer in peace conferences and
. I i . i i . j v- .ii ' vpf fnm1iiuiii thp Prpsiilpiii for iniitfl
amiY. t K"v nimfm i miiiiu-aitru im nit HiitK-: - '
a a i im i triariLi
SACRAMENTO March 1 -Whether United States District Attorney, w ho ,' '""'f i"t a swooping hawk for a
I bAlKAMt.MO, warcil l. nemer fvidenr. of a dornmen-i "ar- Y,ars a" enthusiasts of Bo-;n
i hrininnir a cornse Into court was an,sa,a ,ne onlv ewaence oi a tiocunien- .
:ed recruiting nlot in which three ar-! taming peace, from a cooling dove
: rests were made Sunday, according to I Mr- Root has suddenly transformed
SEAPLANE BOMBARDS COAST
LONDON. March 1. A German sea
plane bombarded a portion of south
cast England tonight, it was officially
announced. A child of nine months
was killed. There was no military
damage.
i bringing a corpse into court was an
appearance was the question present
ed to Police Judge Henderson wheniW. R. Seligsen in recruiting soldiers
Charles , for the Allies."
The measure is designed to increase
the efficiency and put able men . in
comn.anding positions at an earlier
a;.e and open the way for the rise of
subordinate officers now virtually
barred from promotion. 4
The..Board reported it was convinc
ed the system of promotion and senior
ity must be abandoned. The attached
report to the appendix, dealing with
the need of the Marine Corps brought
bout increases in the navy personnel.
proposes a total number of enlisted
tomplete JJSt Or lanaiaaies Oi will be to afford members of Congress
Republicans is Had. Club wav to avoid recording their poi-
of Organization will Meet ,iims bef"rp.,h,",0"n,ry " " H,raisbt
xt f j p j ol,t proposition.
INext .Monday Evening. Tnl president made his position
I clear as the climax to a day of ronfus
i i.n and political maneuvering which
! marked the openins of his first real
h.-ht In Congress. A if to emphaste
ithe President's attitude he made
j known that the United States does not
consider th latest assurances of th
; German ambassador as broad and sat
' isfactory as those originally given,
j It is apparent that some of the lead
crs who secretly supnor'ed anti-AJ-I
ministration forces and under Admin
istration pressure pocketed their reso
i hit ions in committee when there W8S
j danger of their being adopted .realized
jthatthe President and his friends had
'suddenly gained the w-hip hand. Prac-
l tii-Mly the entire control of machinery
j in the House under these leaders was
I held in deadlock all day while they
sought a proposal satisfactory to the
I President to sti! save their positions.
i Word came from the White House
. . . .. . ... - tt
placed to the lnaI tnere win oe no compromise. on
REPUBLICAN CITY TICKET.
MAYOR.
R. Tonkin
MARSHAL
O. P. McRae.
CITY CLE?RK
M. U Butler.
STREET SUPERINTENDENT
J. T. Quick.
Barnes Tustin,
Ned White,
J. LaDondee.
ALDERMEN
Ward 1.
Joe Muheim,
George Bunker.
Ward 2.
Arthur J. Applin,
C, W. Ruth.
Ward 3.
Basset Watkins,
Bertram L. Smith,
Griffith J. Williams.
Final touches were
Republican city ticket last evening at sr1 ' meet tomorrow facing a
a meeting of the Warren District : clear cut issue with the President.
Republican Club. The list of candi- T,,e possibility that an effort to sup
dates for the various olhces In the press the vote may be successful will
city appear above and. according to not be overlooked by the President's
the leaders, represent the very best friends, although they are confident
material in the community. 'his course will prevail. Thev say.
It will be noted that only In two however, that if Congress seeks to a
parts is there competitions; for the void the issu the President will not
nomination for street superintendent hesitate to take the case before the
and for alderman from the third country.
ward. ; "
The Republican Club, according to VERDUN NOT GOAL.
its by laws, meets the first Monday : ,
in every month and. consequently LONDON. March 1. The Times
TROUBLE IN NAVY.
SAN DIEGO, March 1. Word was
received that Lieut. H. A. Abbott, of
cruiser Raleigh, was transferred
tary nature involves C. D. Randall and e"ia took tne sum
stretched m a arumnead
Tho ihirH ...on ..a- lueir lonowcrs lo war.
Root would stretch the
of a patriot, men to.be increased twenty percent. I next Monday evening, at the oflice of , military correspondent, annalyzing the
id, to rouse ! pe total authorized strength of tho'the vice-president. E. J. Flanigan. in '. situation at Verdun, declares his belief
So Elihu naVy and officers to be four percent, j the Allen block, will be held the first that that one long expected
skin of the! th,. authorized number of enlisted men. .regular meeting of the organization. German offensive has begun
lilt; vane ui hit- fcvic a j
Pralav urn a rn llari WaIpv vhn rftm-1 fnrnipr srrpt KPrvirp mnn pmnlnvpil I
1 "... ... . . i viftima nf thp Lusiiani driimhpml toThi -ar -sorvp Hi th rnntpmnlatpd I DuriniE the oriuiary campaign
mitiea suK'iae mm ween, naa own , oy imp government tio unrover me ai- i r . t , , , " , ' ... . W4lt Q-.i, ii H lnrp tht n.
iminirin 1 is tuc ..... - , -
out on bond. Anticipating a court at-jieged plot.
I rouse our kindly sympathy into a
tempt to forfeit the ball the attorney! The District Attorney said there had cruel frenzv for war' Root n,a' beaf
lirnneht the cornse throueli the court i hro.h of nootmiit iho I "is arum ana oiare nis trumpei, out
door In a coroner's . wagon and the lTnited s,ates or its rj,iZens. There)' the President will go right on winning; selected for promotion. The bill makes j central committee and the Republican
coroner appeard to record the inquest. js no evidence that the British govern-! plaudits of tne American people, i new places above the grade o uuo expci 10 gei nno me
The matter Is under advisement.
ment is implicated It was alleaed I "PPeawiig iu inr iu.., ocl..-c .m , Mllenant
rmit. r oht,,nrt i, ait ! humanity, and by keeping the I'nited
but two went to the front.
RIOTING IN PHILADELPHIA.
PHILADELPHIA, March 1. Police ;
to i reserves from five stations were call-
the Whipple, relieving Lieut. Francis ed to quell rioting caused by clothing!
Pryor, the commanding officer of that makers' endeavoring to persuade other
grand
and he
the doubts that Verdun will be the real
Kill Ia liu Avtahliulld
list of officers who attain the pre- effort, owing to the several contests.! front Is impregnable in .face of mod-
tknj . i.k, KmlAfter il. nriniarv. however, the citv I f artillery attack and believes the
RlllUfU K ill Finuc " '-"""V ' -- -- ----- . . , , ..!. ,,l 1, ..,,.
Miblican "'-- " - -
harness clous in depleting main reserves and
t keep Increasing tnose reserves ior
when the Germans haTe ex
hausted themselves."
BANDITS KILL AMERICAN. I
EL PASO, March 1. Officials have:
State as the champion of the neutral ! LYMAN IN NEW YORK
world." ' NEW YORK. March 1. John Grant
Lyman, arrested several days ago. in
! Kt. Petersburg, Florida, where he fled
AN AEROPLANE STAGE
! fmni hi ftv Polimnrv A aftpr tiift- i anil pvptv pffnrt s btinc DUt forth :
a rt nnnn-tP (hi iWimwrat a with pverv '
, . ' action
punniuir- iiiv-min ml iiiv-ii i uiiiinaiiii. i
That the election, judging the mat-)
ter this far ahead, will be one of thei
closely contested in the history of the!
city W acknowledged by both parties
RELIGIOUS RIOT.
CHICAGO. March 1. Two
patrol
wagons, filled with police, ambulance.
! fire engine and truck, were called to.
, -. , , . ,. j l , , , ... i i ,i ! ascertained that the Harris, whose TACOMA, March 1. Construction i ,...OPV of nlWoH oil stock swindles hv thni to aernro the best candidates! . . ,, ' , .
vessel. The change is believed to be I workers in a large factory to join the , . ...... , , . ... , '. , , , 1 overv OI atiegea on siock swinaies, py inem io set ure D1 lamlma', the south side to suppress a riot when
the result of dissatisfaction in the
crew resulting from the painting of
the inscription. "C. P. O. Madhouse"
in big letters on the bow of the ship.
The incident prompted a desire in the
crew to "get even" with certain peLly
officers.
strike. Several were injured.
i death at the hands of bandits in Som-.is under way of twelve passenger hy- j sai(j to ,ave netted him mote than possible.
TRAIN WRECK IN COLORADO.
PUEBLO, Colo.. March 1. A Rio
Grande train was wrecked by a snow
slide in Black canyon. Two passen
gers are missing and believed killed.
tlvf -E.SHon hrdluetaoimfwypsliriMui I and several injured. The survivors
were found at the snowbound en-
brerete, was reported from Torroon, . droneroplanes, said to be the largest : too 000, returned here today in i-us-j
was Edward Harris, assistant superin-, in the world, which a Tacoma compa- tody of a government agen. j
tendent of the Sombrerete Mining ,ny proposes to operate between Taco-! A deputv marshal said that Lyman j
tompany, an American owner cor-inia and Seattle on June 1.
Dr. Slattery of Boston, a former Ca-
NICARAGUAN CONGRESS
poration. Harris was acting for
I
REPORTS EXAGGERATED.
NEW YORK. March 1. Reports of
discontent and threatened uprisings
of the natives of India have been ex
aggerated in dispatches from outside
soarce?, according to Dr. William Ab
bott, who arrived aboard the steam
ship California from Liverpool. He
said there have been some discontent
fomented by German propaganda. The
British authorities have been able to
check the demonstrations.
trance of Black Canyon.
Superintendent Heldt. whose safety I
i caused apprehension here today.2 The '
I American consul at Duranga was re- ,
I quested to report concerning Heldt.
VICE COMMISSION'S REPORT
MINNEAPOLIS, March 1. A com
mittee representing seven women's or
ganizations in a statement announces
DELEGATES CHOSEN. after a month's investigation they can
CARMEN THREATEN STRIKE SAN FRANCISCO, March l.-Twen- sfly ,he rere,lt rev.la ion in
WASHINGTON. March 1. A newly ,. ,u ,d.,ih ..i I vice conditions was "only a skim of
tholic priest and his wife. Dr. Mary
Slatterr. a former nun. atteniDted to
WASHINGTON. March 1. Minister ; ,.,' i,,in i.
j asserted that if he had operated six j chaT0rro of Nicaragua was advised 8ia ,,nd 0,ia t14 hall and all ef
i weeks longer he would have cleaned , bv nil government that Nicarauuan fort8 to smpprp,,., faiied untii a i108e
! up a million dollars. Lyman complain-1 conKres8 is , . onvene in special ses- was turned on. A score were hurt. A
led that twenty bills of $1,000 each ; sjon ,omorrow an,i wi )ake up for I hundred were arrested and thirty held
I taken from him by arresting officers ratifirafion )ne ranai ri!;ht and naval I in the police court.
, in Florida had not since been ac- ( w,h (np states. 1
tcoun.ea ior. , minislrv.s aisl,a.h sai,i nothing.
had been heard in the Nicaraguan cap-
TO STATES ATTORNEY.
CUMW.cn. March 1. Submit tine a
organized union, claiming to represent j egates who will go to the Democratic ",p UT'ace r """al conditions. , r(,no1 on ,be spIit 8a1ary ri,arB,8 n
1000 conductors and motormen em- national convention were chosen bp!Yo,inc cir,s aro l,ni,"r ln ,he streets , ,,,,, j.;aton-Rowe case a committee of
Ploved bv the capital's two street tat i-nmmiiiu Hunwroi. Tholat night; many hotels are operated I r.i. ii ,BI-. i, recommended at the citv
railways, presented to the companies , were pledged to vote for the renomi-1 so,pl' fnr P'"0""1 Kain,'d b' vit'c: and i council meeting tonicht that th cas Ql'INCY. Mass . March 1. Kxploa-, rancher, according to one of the thre
demands for higher wages, shorter ,. nation of Wilson. Three women arejthst taxicab drivers were co-operaiing be submitted to the state's attorney. i of a compressed air tank on the men arrested charged with complicity
w ith th keepers of resorts, lut ing 1 An effort to suspend rules for appro- new supeidreannsuent ievaqa injureo j in the aliegea pun. Haw Ksuaw ia sam
cirls from their homos: were among val of Ihe report failed, while a mo- three men. i tie catiiesnip was noi , to nave left Honolulu ior tn rran
ANOTHER INVOLVED
HONOLULU, March 1 The money
ital of a revolutionary plot reported to I used in purchasing the discharge of
be hatching In New Orleans. ilOO American soldiers for enlisting In
- . the British army was furnished by J.
EXPLOSION ON NEVADA Hawkahaw. a wealthy Australian
hours and better working conditions. included: Mrs. Nora Rasmussen, San
A wage rate of thirty cents an hour Francisco; Mrs. Wm. C. Tyler, Los
is asked.
Angeles; Miss Mary Foy, Pasadena, the findings.
were among val of Ihe report failed, while a nio- inree men.
Hon to "defer and publish" prevailed. 'damaged.
I,
