THE ARIZOMA REPUBLIC
AN
The Arizona
Republican.
Full
Lwwd Wire
A. P. Raport
Tha tun
Always Shliwa
FiiMtt
WlnUr Climate
la the Woriri
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, .THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 2, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI. NO. 288
GERMAN OFFENSIVE IN
VERDUN REGION HALTS
FOR TIME AT LEAST
The Infantry Attacks Have
Ceased and Official Re
ports Do Not Indicate
Whether Germans Will
Iiest Content or Not
MAY BE BRINGING
UP BIGGER GUNS
Is Possible Are Planning to
Better Fortify the Points
Gained, Before Resuming
Shelling of Points Nearer
Verdun
Republican A. . P. Leased Wire
The Germans in the battle-scarred
region of Verdun continue -their
bombardment west of the Meuse in the
region between Malancourt and Forges
across the river eastward about Vaux
and Dam Lop, and against French
trenches in the Woerve region, south
west of Verdun.
Their big offensive, however, so far
ar infantry attacks are concerned, has
ceased, at least for the moment.
Whether it will begin again or whether
the Germans will rest content with the
points of vantage they gained is not
indicated in the official reports of
cither Berlin or Paris.
Unofficial advices from Berlin have
ftated that the German plan of cam
palgn has been primarily based on the tary committee's preparedness program support of congress and his own par
bombardment of sectors they desire to today. It was suggested by Repre-Jty in his demands for a full obser
attain, and it is possible they may , sentative Kahn of California as an Vance of international law while its
now oc urawuig up meir Dig guns 10
capture positions with the object of ,
shelling points nearer their objectiv
Verdun.
To the east of Verdun the French
have bombarded German positions, effort to enlist in the reserve in peace
heavily in Le Pretre wood and near times teamsters, mechanics, railroad
Thiacourt. Artillery duels have been men, chauffeurs and other non-com-in
progress in Alsace. There has been batant forces necessary to an army,
no resumption of German attacks but extends the scope of he reserve
against the French in the Champagne system to include civilian aviators,
region. I ordnance engineers, workers In muni-
While nothing of especial importance ' tion plants, telephone and telegraph
lias taken place along the British j operators and mechanics, civil engt-
part of the line, the effect of the Ger- neers and members of every other civil
man offensive in the Verdun region profession or occupation whose serv
is shown in the lengthening of their j ices would be useful to the army in
, front In order to release, the French ' war.
for reinforcement of the army oppos- ( . It is understood a general authoriza
ing the German advance. Unofficial ( tion will be included in the bill, the war
advices had placed the extreme soum- ( department being left to work out the
em end of the British line in the re- details in actual practice. Reservists
gion of Lens. The latest- British offi- of this character would be regularly
rial communication reports the Brit-I enlisted as reserves for the fiehtin?
Ish fighting to the north of the Somme, j
wnicn would snow mat tnev nave
..uwl .t.A! nAnf HA.a.n hl i
euciuicu iiicii . i wilt ucivwcu inn ij in tunc ut ffHl. .W-j 0
and forty miles down to the region of The committee worked all day but I conf used by lhp President's call yes
Amiens, could not reach a final vote. It Is ev. terday for a vote, was thrown into a
Little is go'ng on in Russia except
'solated bombardments and infantry I
attacks and air raids. On the Italian
front, Italians have occupied and con
solidated an Austrian position on
Mount Harmolada. Elsewhere in this
region only artillery bombardments
have prevailed.
On the Asian battlefields the Rus
sians continue their pursuit of the
Turks In the Caucasus region and ir.
Persia.
Germany, according to a dispatch
from Madrid, has sent an ultimatum to
Portugal demanding the release with
in forty-eight hours of the interned
German steamers seized by Portugal.
A German aeroplane has dropped
bombs on the southeast coast of Eng
land. No military damage was done.
(Continued on Page Three)
"SPLIT .SHUT
TO
Recommendation Is Made
State's Attorney Present
Report to Grand Jury
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. March 1. In submitting
m
a report on the split salary charges of mney "sed lntuVUTalng he
Mrs. Page Waller Eaton superintend- harse than 100 American Sol
ent of the bureau of social surveys. dler" nd enlisting ;them in the British
against her chief. Mrs. Louise Osborn arm' furnished by J. J. Hawkshaw,
Kowe, head of the department of put.-, f wef'thy Australian rancher, accord
lie welfare, the committee on civil sen- "g M Guy D. Randall, one of 'the
at its meeting tonight that the case be
submitted to the state's attorney, i
Transcript of the testimony taken at
the committee's hearing of the charges
at which Mrs. Rowe declined to ap-'-pear,
accompanied the report, and the
committee urged that the state's at
torney present the same to a grand
jury with a view to indictments if the
evidence submitted warranted such ac
tion. .An effort to suspend the rules
for the approval of the report failed,
and s motion to "defer and publish''
prevailed.
A number of questions as to the
power of the committee to summon
witnesses, impose oaths and the prob
able Judicial effect of such power, if
possessed, were submitted to the cor
poration counsel as the result of the
committee's experience in its recent
split salary .inquiry.
An ordinance providing for the clos
ing of all cabarets was received from
the corporation counsel and referred to
the committee on Judiciary,
The council meeting was the briefest
held In weeks, but much business was
transacted. The mayor was applauded
as he took the rostrum, as were the
7
TORPEDO BOAT DESTROYER
PREBLE IS DISABLED
, SAN DIEGO, March l.--While
steaming at a speed of 22 knots I
on the drill grounds off this port j
I this morning, the torpedo ooat tie-
i stroyer Preble was temporarily dis
abled when the rudder snapped in j
two. The Preble was able to enter j
j the harbor unaided and was berth- j
j ed while divers set at work repair- j
ing the damage. It is believed the
j destroyer will be able to complete
j elementary torpedo practice with-
out going to Mare Island for fur
j ther repairs. v
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, March 1. Legisla
tive frame-work for a far-reaching in
dustrial and technical reserve to sup
port the nation's fie-htinir linos in war
nine was aKeicnea mio tne nouse mill-
ameiiumeni 10 me provision In the
pending army increase bill for a quar-
lermasxer s corps reserve and was
adopted without objection.
The plan contemplates not only an
arms, and would be liable for assign-
mcnt to duty by the war department
iw. : . . a I
pected the measure will be. completed
tomorrow, but a new effort to increase
the proposed strength of the regular
army will precede, the vote. The bifi
lias already been altered slightly in
Ithis regard and now specifically pro
vides a minimum strength of 140,00-1
men in peace times instead of the
I former provision authorizing a peace
strength of 135.000, with an allowance
! for recruitment designed to fix the
maximum at 143,000.
Another change, it is understood, will
be proposed tomorrow under which the
maximum peace strength would be
200,000 men, or Just double the present
authorized arm-. Under this plan it
is contemplated to vest the president
with authority to bring the army up to
full authorized strength at any time
(Continued on Page Two)
Guy D. Randall Says Money
Was Furnished By
' Wealth v Australian
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HONOLULU, T. H., March 1. The
. " . - 1 1 ii ii ui . caicu uii Limine jl lulll-
pIlty the p!0';
icity in the alleged plot. --
Hakwshaw, said Randaji, left Hono
lulu last Saturday on the Hill liner
Great Northern for San Francisco. He
ls traveling, if not under an alias, at
least without ostentation, according to
Randall, who said Hawkshaw's name
would not be found on the liner's pas
senger list. ,
Randall, when taken before United
States Commissioner George S. Curry
after his arrest last Sunday, was re
ported to have told Curry the full de
tails of the alleged conspiracy as far
as he knew them. It was from docu
ments in Randall's trunk that the gov
ernment learned that 15$ recruits had
been secured and that 154 of them had
been sent to the front.
Rnndall and W. R. Seligsen, two of
the three men arrested, are stilt in
jail. Jefferson, a former discharged
.sergeant of the United States cavalry,
who was arrested with the others and
released on his recognizance, was said
to have entered the plot at the insti
gation of the federal authorities.
aldermen nominated for re-election at
the primaries yesterday. . ,
AU INDUSTRIAL
AND TECHNICS!.
RESERVE URGED
WW
FOR rlEW RECRUITS
RECORD VOTE IS
DEMANDED AND
110 COMPROMISE
j President, Wilson Definitely
lntorms Congress Must
,Go On Record for Or
Against Resolutions
Warn Americans Off
to
HALT SUBMARINE
NEGOTIATIONS
Will Not Accept Vote of
Confidence, As Might Be
Construed In Berlin That
President Lacks Support
of Congress
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
WASHINGTON, March 1. Presi
dent Wilson served' notice on congress
tonight fthat he will consent to noth
ing less than a record vote on the
anti-administration resolutions to
warn Americans off the armed ships
of European belligerents before he
goes on with the submarine negotia
tions. ' No compromise proposition such as
a vote of confidence in the president's
foreign policy will be acceptable. Such
an action it Is held, might be con
strued in Berlin as justifying the
nnininn that th ...i,im i,.u th
only purpose would be to afford
members of roneress a wav to avoid
recording their positions before the
country on the straight out and out
question.
President Wilson made his position
clear to congressional leaders today
in unequivocal terms as the climax to
a day of confusion', uncertainty and
political maneuvering which marked
the opinion of his first real "fight
with congress.
As If to emphasize that the presi
dent absolutely refuses to continue
the negotiations with Germany until
the attitude of congress has been
settled. It was made known that the
United States does not consider Ihe
latest assurances from Count von
Bernstorff. the German amhassaddr.
as broad or as satisfactory as those
originally given. No further stp will
be taken, however, while the president
wait? on congress. Meanwhile the
Pending LuRitania agreement will not
ue miany acyepieu.
The U hnlp i f ! , t i f n In ronerpMR
snarl today when at an early morn
ing conference the president outlined
his position to Senators Stone and
Kern, and' Representative Flood,
chairman of the foreign affairs com-
fnittee of the' house; Speaker Clark,
House Leader Kitchin .and Acting
Chairman Pou of the house rules
committee. . t
As soon as the delegation returned
to the capitol with news of, what the
president had said, it was apparent
that some of the leaders who had se
cretly supported the anti administra
tion forces and under administration
pressure had pocketed resolutions in
committee when there was danger of
their being adopted, realized that the
president and his friends had sud
denly gained the whip hand. It was
plain that they at once, devoted their
efforts to attempts to avoid a defeat
at the hands of the administration
forces by side tracking the main is
sue and making the fight turn to a
vote on a resolution of confidence for
the president in which they could
Join without compromising their po
sition in support of warning Ameri
cans to avoid belligerent armed ships.
Practically in control of the machin
ery of the house, these leaders held
the situation in deadlock all day
while they conferred and sought for
some proposal which would satisfy
(Continued on Page Three)
. . o
"C. P. 0. MADHOUSE"
CAUSES TRANSFER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
.. SAN DIEGO. March 1. Word was
received from Washington toaay that
Lieutenant H. J. Abbett of the cruiser
Raleigh has been transferred to the
destroyer Whipple, relieving Lieutenant
Francis D. Pryor as commanding offi
cer of that vessel. The change, it is
. believed in naval circles here, was or-
tiered as a result of the recent dia
affection among the Whipple's crew.
which reached a climax when mem
bers of the enlisted personnel sur
reptitiously painted the inscription "C.
P. O. "Madhouse," representing "Chief
Petty Officers' Madhouse " in big red
lc-tterr on the bow of the ship. The
Incident was said to have been prompt
ed by a desire of members of the crew
to "get even" with certain petty offi
cers on the Whipple. N
. '" o
WHEAT EMBARGO '
. TO BE LIFTED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LINCOLN, Neb.. March 1. The Bur
lington Railroad company tonight noti
fied the state railway commission that
;t would lift the embargo on wheat and
ir now ready to accept that grain for
shipment. For some time the rortd re
fused shipments In Nebraska in orde:
to care for more pressing demands on
j its rolling stock. . - t
-1
SUNDAY THEATRICALS
. DOOMED IN GOTHAM I
NEW YORK, March 1. A cam
j paign was begun tonight by the
corporation council's office in be-
half of the city against the Sun
j day theatrical performances, which
j violate the city ordinances-limit--
ing entertainments on that day to
j sacred and educational concerts,
j vocal and instrumental music, lec-
tures," addresses and recitations.
I Suit was filed against the largest
theater in New York, alleging that
j on February 20 a performance was
j given which included "tragedy,
I comedy, opera, ballet, farce, negro j
minstrels, dancing and other pro- j
hibited exhibitions." The penalty
j is a fine of $500 and the automatic
cancellation of the offending the-
ater's license.
OK SELECTION
NOT SENIORITY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, March 1. Promo-
tion-of naval officers by selection in
stead of by seniority, an increase of
50 per cent in officers of all grades,
creation of a war reserve list and
restoration of the popular old rank
of tommorode are proposed in a bill
drafted by the navy personnel board
and transmitted to congress today by
Secretary Daniels, 'i'he measure, the
result of two years of study and work
by the board, is designed Jo increase
the efficiency of the service, put able
men in commanding positions at an
earlier age, and open the way for rise
of subordinate officers now virtually
barred from hope of promotion.
Under the plan, all officers above
the rank of lieutenant would be sub
Ject to promotion by selecting upon
passage of the bill, the selections be
ing made from each grade by officers
of the ranks above.
The board reported that it was con
vinced the system of promotion and
seniority must be abandoned. .
We believe, the report said, "that
the principal, enerit of the system we
recummena is mat. naving accepted
the principle that the navy itself
should do the selecting, we have car
ried this out in a logical manner by
requiring in each case that as many
officers, of the navy as possible take
part in this important work, so that
no officer passed over can feel or al
lege that the prejudice of one or two
superiors has blasted bis prospects."
.iviiacnea 10 me report is an ap
pendix dealing with the need of the
marine corps, brought about by in
creases in tiie navy personnel. This
proposes that the total number of en
isted men of the marine corps shall
be increased to 20 per cent of the to
tal authorized strength of the navy
and that the number of marine corps
officers shall be four per cent of the
authorized number of enlisted men
ine war reserve contemplated in
the bill would be established by
transferring to the list officers who
attain, the prescribed age in grade
without being selected for promotion.
Such officers would be assigned to
war stations for mobilization purposes
to w-hich they might be detailed for
not exceeding two months each year.
They would receive graded pay based
upon their rank and years of service
at the time of their transfer from
the active list.
The bill makes 320 new places
above the grade of lieutenant and
provides that the number of lieuten
ants of the senior , and junior grades
and ensigns shall be governed only
By the, output of the naval academy.
The increase from 400 to 720 in the
number of officers senior to lieuten
ant is spread equally over-a period
of' five years and ,the flow of promo
tion regulated to make . it unneces
sary to begin selection prior to July
l, 1921.
To. show the generally unsatisfac
tory results of promotion by seniority
the board points out that:
By June of this year the navy will
have about .850 junior lieutenants of
Whom, under the present system, only
about 15 can be advanced to lieuten
ants the remainder having no ad
vancement in prospect -before reach
ing the retired list. The. average age
of the captains to be advanced to rear
admirals during the next year, is
about 60 years.
This condition, the board declares.
sends the higher graded officers to
the retired list before they can ac
quire the necessary training in hand
ling the fleet that would prepare them
to discharge their war duties.
o
BUSINESS IS GOOD
ALL OVER COUNTRY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, March 1. Generally
good business conditions throughout
the country are reflected in reports of
federal reserve agents made public to
night by the federal reserve board.
Crowing scarcity of raw materials used
in many American industries is noted,
however, and the southern agents pre
dict an increase on cotton acreage this
year unless steps are taken to pre
vent it
San Francisco reports (;re has been
little change in conditions. Imports
through that port for January exceed
ed all previous records by $13,000,000.
Seventy per cent of this was raw silk
and wool.
-
10
LD PROMOTE
Ml EFFECTS
UIIDERSTANDINE
fJITHJIPIITIl
Nephew of Former Mexican
Dictator Will Have Zapata
and Followers of Villa
As Aides In His Proposed
Revolution
JUNTA ESTABLISHED
' AT EL PASO
Federal Authorities Who
Examine Many Refugee
Mexicans,- Unable to Se
cure Definite' Informa
tion of New Junta
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, March 1. Felix Diaz, ne
phew of the former Mexican dictator,
Porfiro Diaz, who is said to have land
ed on the' east coast of Mexico to
launch a new revolt, has effected an
understanding with Zapata and the fol
lowers of Villa, according to friends
of the latter, who stated today that
conferences held here last week with
emissaries of Diaz had resulted in an
agreement between the leaders.
A junta, it was also stated, had been
established here, but federal officials
who examined a number of refugee
Mexicans suspected of being interested
in the movement, said they were un
able to secure definite information con
cerning its operations.
Villa followers declared that their
leader would co-operate with Diaz.
Villa previously had an understanding
with Zapata, Villa's principal desire, it
was said, was to overthrow Carranza,
and he would give or accept any aid in
accomplishing that purpose.
Villa partisans who took part in the
conference said they had been assured
that Diaz was amply provided with
funds to finance a far-reaching revolt
in Mexico, but that no proof was fur- I
nished them.
. In retaliation for the summary exe
cution of 200 of their comrades by
Carranaz troops, Zapata soldiers op
erating near the City f Mexico have
threatened to destroy "the town of El
Oro, and kill all the inhabitants, in
cluding twenty Americans, according
to a mining engineer who reached the
border today. Among the Americans
at El Oro are a numlier' of women.
Troops of General Pablo Gonzales
sent out to capture Cuernavaca, the
Zapata stronghold, were said to have
captured a detachment of Zapata sol
diers near El Oro and to have taken
them into the town where they were
3hot to death. Zapata immediately
sent word that he intended to destroy
the town and all its inhabitants.
Carranza officials here claimed that
Cuernavaca had been evacuated by
(Continued on Page Two )
Railroads
That the Arizona Eastern has been
consistently losing money on its pas
senger traffic for the past three years.
and that the loss is mainly due to com
petition put up by auto stage lines,
was the outstanding' feature of yes
terday's hearing of the three-cent rate
case before the corporation commis
sion. The railroads of the state were repre
sented at the hearing by a battery of
legal talent of imposing numbers and
standing. The Southern Pacific was
CAN CORPSE MAKE
it
Because Man Commits Sui
cide Attempt Made to
Forfeit His Bail
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SACRAMENTO, Cal., March 1.
Whether the bringing of a corpse into
court constituted an appearance was
the question presented to Police Judge
Henderson today, when the case of the
people vs. Charles Fraley was called.
Fraley, who committed suicide last
week, had been accused of assault with
a deadly weapon and released on bail
of $250. Anticipating that when the
case was called for the . preliminary
hearing that the court would make an
attempt to forfeit the bail. Attorney
Luke Howe had brought the corpse to
the court door in the coroner's wagon,
while Coroner Fenton appeared in the
court with the records of the inquest.
Judge Henderson seemed inclined to
lake the view that in killing himself
the accused had voluntarily absented
himself from the jurisdiction of the
court.
The matter was taken under advise
ment until March 6. ' "
Fraley was accused of attack with
a deadly weapon 'on William Crowder,
as the result of a street fight, in which
the latter was stabbed. -
GL YNN REPLIES TO ROOT
IN KEYNOTE SPEECH. OF
NEW YORK DEMOCRATS
P-
CALIFORNIA OFFICIALS
TO ATTEND FUNERAL
SACRAMENTO, Cat, March l.-K
j Governor Hiram W, Johnson, John
Francis Heylen, chairman of the
state board of control. State Treas-
urer Friend W. Richardson, Adjut-
ant General Charles W. Thomas,
Jr., Arthur P. Will, chief of the
state legislative counsel bureau,
j and Paul Herriott. member of the
j state board of control, left late to-
day for Los Angeles to attend the
funeral of the late Lieutenant Gov-'
j ernor John M. Eshleman, who died
, -suddenly at Indio, Riverside coun-.
j ty, last Monday.
D , ,
(.Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
. NEW YORK, March 1. John Grant
Lyman, who was arrested several
days 'ago at St. Petersburg, Fla.,
where he fled irom this city Feb
ruary 8 after the discovery of an al
leged oil stock swindle said to have
neted him more than $300,000, was
returned here tonight in the custody
of government agents. Deputy Unit
ed States Marshal W. D. Vinzant of
Florida, wh6 accompanied the party,
declared Lyman confided in him on
the way here that if he could have
.operated six weeks longer as 'John
H. Putnam & Co." he would have
cleaned up a million dollars." '
Lyman, who it is believed was
about to leave for Spanish Honduras
on a motor boat when be was ap-
prehended, boasted that persons
throughout the country who "sent
their money to him for investment
were above the average in intelli
gence, and "that, it wag a pleasure
to him to know that he got the best
or them," according to Vinzant,,-"" - -:
Lyman was locked . up iti the
Tombs on his arrival here. He will
be arraigned tomorrow in the federal
court on an indictment charging him
with illegally using the mails.
Lyman is quoted as stating that
his disappearance from New York
was not due to postoffice inspectors'
investigation of Putnam & Co., but
to the fact that Gorbam Tufts of
Los Angeles, who was on his bond
of $20,000 when he fled from Cali
fornia two years ago after being
convicted there in a land fraud, was
(Continued on Page Eignt)
Get Little
SIX WEEKS MORE
MEANT MILLION
FOR DR. Ell
From Passenger Traffic
represented by W. C. Derbrow, the Ari- mission, was the first witness on the
zona Eastern by Greorge Purdy Bui- stand. - Belts' testimony was mainly as
lard. Hawkins and Franklin were act- to rates on both inter-state and intra
ing for the El Paso and South West- state hauls. He had prepared an ex
ern, Morenci and Southern and, the haustive report, giving the rate per
Arizona and New Mexico. The Santa mile, per passenger on practically all
Fe was represented by Camp and Dun- the railroads running between Chicago
lap. Assistant Attorney General Leslie .and the coast. Betts was subjected to .
Hardy represented the corporation ! a grilling examination by the repre
commission. Of that body only Com-1 sentatives of the different Arizona
missionenj. Jones and Cole were pres- j roads. In spite of the fact that his re
ent. Commissioner 2eary is in the port was assailed from every possible
northern part of the state. .
A. A. Betts, rate expert for the com-
Justice Department Official
Say Plans Not Found In
Prisoners' Rooms
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
; NEW YORK. March 1. Agents of
the department of .justice announced
today that the investigation had failed
tc confirm reports that plans of United
States fortifications had been discover
ed in the rooms of Richard von Arend
an)j Rudolph von Krscnt, arrested here
j iast njgnt on a charge of conspiring to
use the mails to defraud through a sys
tematic begging scheme. Maps of New
York and Philadelphia were found by
the agents, but it was stated that noth
ing was discovered which would tend
to associate the defendants with the
international situation. The two men
explained the possession of German
war pictures by -saying that, friends
had senl them from Germany,
Von Arend and Von Kracht, who
claimed to be German army lieuten
ants and University' of Berlin grad
uates, were held in $5,000 bail each for
a hearing on Saturday. - United States
Commissioner Houghton promised to
reduce'the amount of bond if the, de
partment of justice did not uncover
evidence rendering them liable to pro
secution on other than the charge of
misusing the mails.
FORTIFICATIONS
1
TFOUfl
In Addition to Endorsing
Wilson's Administration,
Former Governor Assails
Root's Criticisms at Re
publican State Convention
TO PRINT MILLION
COPIES OF SPEECH
These, By Resolution of Con
vention, Will Be Distri
buted Throughout the,
Country By the Demo
cratic State Committee
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SYRACUSE, N. Y., March 1. In
keynote speech and platform, demo
crats of New York state assembled
in informal convention tonight, rati
fied the administration of President
Wilson and took steps to bring about
his re-election. Harmony marked the
convention's deliberations, every pro
posal being unanimously adopted.
The following delegates 'at large to
the national democratic convention at
St. Louis were recommended for the
surport of the party voters at the
spring , primaries: United States
Senator James A. O'Gorman; Wil
liam Church Osborn, chairman of the
democratic state committee; George
J. Meyer of Buffalo, a German
American suporter of the president,
and Samuel Untermyer, a New York,
attorney. The convention also adopt
ed a resolution recommending the re
election of Norman E. Mack of Buf
falo as democratic national commit
teeman. - The delegates to the national con
vention, who comprise New York's
"big four," were unpledged, but were
nominated with the linderstanding
th-it they are to work for a second
term for Mr. Wilson.
The keynote speech, delivered by
former Governor Martin H. Glynn,
as permanent chairman, aroused
much enthusiasm. In addition to
commanding the actions of Mr. Wil
son during his administration, it re
plied directly to the criticisms of the
president and his foreign policies
made1, by former Senator BUhu Root
at the recent republican state con
vention in New Yor.
At the conclusion of the speech the
convention adopted a resolution pro
iding' for- the distribution by tho
democratic state committee of 1,000,
000 copies throughout the country.
The platform expressed the faith of
New York'3-democracy in the presi
dent, "and urged his renomination
and re-election. It- was adopted en
thusiastically amid prolonged cheers.
It dealt solely with national issues.
(Continued on Page Two)
standpoint, he stuck by it through thick
and thin.
In the state-s portion of the evidence
relative to the earnings of the Arizona
Eastern it was shown that this road
had lost $70,000 in 1915, in the pas
senger department. William Sangster,
secretary of the commission, testified
that the Arizona Eastern rates were
not high enpugh to pay what it cost .
to carry each passenger. It was also
shown that the road lost $7,000 in 1914 ;
and in 1913 the earnings were ' $54,000,
which' is $11,000 less than a six per cent -
return on the investment.
Bullard, attorney for the Arizona .
Eastern, also maintained that the
losses of his road this year would go
Lwell over $300,000, due to the damage
sustained during the floods.
. After this was made clear to the
commission Bullard stated that he was
ready to let the case of his road rest.
It was also brought -out by Hardy,
with the assistance of Betts, that the
various roads carrying passengers
across the state, were charging more
for the intra-state traffic than for inter-state,
that is a passenger traveling
from one point to another in Arizona
was paying considerably more than
passengers traveling across the state.
In some cases, it was shown that inter-state
passengers paid less than one
cent a mile. W. C. Quesbrow, attorney
for the Southern Pacific, was a little
inclined to take lightly the figures pre
pared by Mr. Betts. Betts repeatedly
stated that his figures should be taken
for what they were worth, and that was
for the corporation commission to de
termine. , ' .
Those who testified in addition to
Betts were:- William Sangster. secre
tary to the corporation commission;
C. M. Scott, superintendent of the Ari
zona Eastern, and Superintendent Wil
liams of the Southern pacific, of Tuc
son.' .
