Seconrl st
"Ashland Grows While Llthla Flows'
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland. Oregon, Lilhla Springs ,
"Oregon's Famous Spa"
fl VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1916
NUMBER 81
IDINGS
All Set For
The Big Games
Basketball Interest Is wrought "P
to the highest tension with the ap
proach of the Medford-Ashland ser
ies. Neither team Is given more than
an even chance of winning the series,
and a tie which would necessitate the
playing of a fifth game on a neutra
floor may become necessary. The
first game Is played Friday at Med
ford, the second game Saturday night
at the Ashland high school gymnasi
um here. Already near'y all of the
reserved seats for Saturday's game
are gone. One entire side of the
house has been reserved by Medford
rooters. Medford will come up 600
strong, bringing their band and some
new rooting stunts. Ashland rooters
have an entire section to themselves
&
Q IJiind. ?
?
4 The Ashland band will prac- J
S tice at 8 o'clock tonight In prep- ?
$ aration for the trip to Medford 4
tomorrow night. The hand will
s leave with the special trainload 3
' of rooters at 7:15 Friday even- $
4 Ing for Medford. . ?
Boys' band practices at 7
sharp for one hour tonight.
.?S$S'$5$?$S$5'$!S$SJ
Booze Shipments Mo Ashland
Twice As Big This Month as Last
o)MMi:itc!.L( i.rn. s
Keep next Monday night open
for Commercial Club meeting.
Old Quarrel
Ends in Murder
t r n t i ..... -
Slxtvnlirht Ah'nnHora ,vnrfl .,(, flffift 4 Siworn! Imnnrinnt mnHnr. ..ill a M' "man Mioi ana KUlCd U
able tn t ...! ti, (i,,u .i,.Lmi,oui ...u, ..,... , he lirnn.h .... i,..f.,M .h i..i. Akorg a'"1 w:ln s,""'y morning
Lion and Lamb
Could Not Agree
past month, and as a result 13G
quarts of the stuff which the mall
order houses sell for whiskey was
shipped Into Ashland. A'l of this
came in by express. The amount of
beer which came In through the
freight house has not been totalled
as yet, but will amount to several
barrels. Forty-four quarts of beer
were shipped in by express.
In February but 70 shipments of
Mquor were received In the city and
a correspondingly small amount of
beer. During March the police pre-
tlio greatest efrect from the smallest
qnaalty can lie gained from It.
The express clerks on the raf'rouM
report an amazingly large amount of ont aIs"
booze coming into the state. Much of I - Meeting called at 8 sharp
it comes from San Francisco and Sac-
ne Drought up before the club
and a full attendance of mem1-
hers Is urged. All who are not
members are invited to bo pros- f
ramento, but the recently established
wholesale horse at Hornbrook is also
contributing hundreds of quarts dally.
In one cur recently there wore 27
packers of "firewater," each packer
being about four feet long by three
feet square.
And the booze which is shipped Into
The lion and the lamb, who are,
by all axioms, supposed to take peace-: d'''1 a stt" greater increase than dun-1 Ashland by common carriers is as yet
iul turns at governing the March i"e past monin. Later as the poo- hut a small portion of that which Is
and wii; stage some unique rooting weather, must have disagreed and P'e wno like to have beer and whiskey I consumed in the city, as a great num-
around the house become more accus-, ber of the foresighted '.laid in a suffi
tomed to the prohibition Bystem, the cient supply to last several months
shipments wiil become greater and . before the first of the year.
effects. On Friday night a special j finally met In conflict up In the re
train will cary the Ashland fans to
Medford, accompanied by the Ashland
hand. Every available automobile In
town will be In service and about 800
fans will go down.
The Medford team Is said to be In
prime condition for the contests and
hopes to win the games on their own
floor easfy. Ashland goes down de
termined to upset the dope and win
from Coach Klum's team on their own
swimming rink. The Medford sport
writers have loBt no opportunity to
build up an alibi which will come In
handy In case their team loses at Ash1
land by constant references to Ash
land's "cigar-box" floor. The floor
World Next Week
glons from whence our weather
comes, for a'l the night of the last
day of February and all thf first day
1 at.,-..;, i 111.- . i .. . .i
down from the sky. March did not 3D16S Will RUl
come in with a lionlike roar, but
quietly with low hanging clouds and
occasional flurries of snow which
were soon dissipated by frequent
beams of sunshine.
The February ralnfalf. was con
siderably less than It should be and
farmers welcome the outlook for
more moisture In March. The spell
of warm weather which made the last
two weeks of February almost spring
like In their balminess, hastened the
Empties To Relieve
Oregon Car Shortage
was carefully measured and was budding of fruit trees and the colder
found to be seven feet longer and five
feet wider than required by the bas
ketball rule book. The Ashland floor
is practicably the same length as Med
ford's and but a few feet narrower.
It is larger than two-thirds of the
playing floors In the state, the best
lighted in the state, has baskets which
are set solidly, and is regulation In
every respect except that which re
quires three feet of space back of the
side lines, and In that respect the
Medford floor is worse, having sidings
weather came just in time to prevent
premature b'oomlng.
Civic Club Hears
Several Talks
The Civic Improvement Club met
Tuesday evening at the' library and
listened to several Interesting talks
by business men of Ashland. W. E.
His royal highness the American
baby will have the entire nation bow
ing before him during the week or
March 4-11. For that is baby week,
and hundreds of cities and towns will
devote seven fully days to the better
ment of the country's greatest asset
its babies.
Baby week begins on Sunday,
March 5, which will be observed as
baby Sunday in the churches, and
I ministers will preach on child con
servation. Then throughout the
week there will be other features, in
cluding a mother's day, a father's day
and others.
Throughout the week lectures will
be given on baby welfare, various
on a lonely mountain roatK near
WlldovlUo, ten miles west 'of Grants
rnss, the resu t of an old feud, nous
man Sunday evening, confessed th3
killing, in a detailed statement and la
now in Jail In Giants Pass.
Tho bodies of Akers and his wifa
were found eight hours later Ty
James Bennlnger, who works In a
sawmill near the scene of tho shoot
ing, and he notified the officers, who,
when they arrived about dark, found
one of Bousman's canes near the
" i scene.
Hundreds of empties are being As he and his neighbors had been
rushed through Ashland to relieve having trouble, the sheriff Immediate
the car shortago throughout Oregon. !y went to BouHinan's house, suspoct-Fifty-four
cars left here in one train ing him. The sheriff rapped twice on,
yesterday morning. An average of , the door of the houso bofore Bous
fifty empties a day are going through man answered and then wanted to
northbound. One five-engine train of know if the sheriff was alone or It
empties was forced to leave about he had a mob with him.
twenty-five cars at Hornbrook to be j When Informed that the sheriff was
brought over by tho local freight. alone ho lighted a lamp and let tho
Banana specials also provide a sheriff in. The sheriff asked him If
great deal of the freight traffic at he knew anything about tho shoot
present. The banana trains are Iced Ing and Bousmnn replied that he
here and rushed through on express knew nil about It and told the fol
tlme. For some time the Southern lowing story:
Pacific lost the banana trade which ' He said he had pone up tho road
was carried on the Great Northern to Akers' place with the Intention
steamships, but a contract to deliver of killing the ronp'e when thev drove
on fast express time resu'ted in the out to church, but his heart failed
resumption of the shipping by rail, him, declaring that he could not
One train which passed through yes- shoot a man who was not armed. Mo
tprrll.V tlllirnlllir tlnt flftntin '.ne. nf ttlAn att,i.A .1 . 1. 1
o select an Oregonlan to take advan- bamila8 for Sl,attle wpn ,he ...
Mrs. Akers called to him to get out
Passes Bad Check I
He then turned around and shot
, j both horses, killing them, shot Mrs.
SnU iSlS3DDearS Akprs ,nrolK' the breast, killing her
At
Militiamen To
Learn To Fly
Governor Withycombe has been no
tified by the Aero Club of America
that the Curtiss Aeroplane Company
has offered to train an officer of the
militia of each of the forty-eight
states free of charge. As command-er-in-chicf
of Oregon's military
forces the governor has been asked
tage of this offer,
The governor 'has conferred with
Adjutant General George A. White,
requesting the general to take steps
towards the selection of an officer or
private whose training will he most
valuable to the militia in this connec
tion. The training will take place at
the Curtiss school at San Diego, Cal.
campaigns to raise money for "better .The Aero Club states that such a
t ...I. ... ,i . . .
of rough boards and no outside lines !-e"coraoe aemwulue general we
rare or tne city in an interesting tain.
exceut at the end
The Ashland boys have it over the i
N. Smith gave as his subject
babies" work conducted, and an edu
cational campaign carried on through
out the entire country.
In Ashland the Parent-Teacher AsL
sociation is having badges printed for
sa'e on the streets. They bear thr
red and black team by about five "Boom' Boom Boom," the three ; slogan, "Better Babies, Better Par-
pounds on the weight average, for,"0""18 De,nB lue preseal Bnu
mime. ri. u. rrouuacn psnea wie
although Fraley Is by far the lightest
on either team, Delsmr.n is the heavi
est by a still wider margin. The Med
ford team has a defense which notic
ing but brilliant passing and phenom
enal basket shooting can score over.
Ashland can win if the team plays the
game of which they are capable.
Neither team has an exceptionally
endorsement of the club for the com
mittee which has the dedication cele
bration In charge and received it by
a unanimous and enthusiastic vote.
Mr. Frohbaeh also told of a distin
guished visitor who will be here in
July, George K. Watlus. secretary of
the National Civic League. All of
strong center, Hsrris, the Ashland j the officera of the !eaS"e visit !
man, having the edge because of his
ents, and Better CHie's."
Several Trainloads
Of Factory Material
The magnitude of a beet sugar fac
tory can be comprehended when it Is
known that 74 carloads of materials
superior shooting abiiity. Ashland's
weak point In the games which they
have lost wa3 inability of the for
wards to watch the running guards,
but this fault has been overcome.
During the past week the team has
been practicing against a town team
and have Improved wonderfully in
their passing.
Cooper, who gave perfect satisfac
tion in the past two series, will come
up from the Willamette valley to ref
eree the series and will eliminate any
posslbVity of jangling over decisions.
Both teams are confident of vic
tory. So are the rooters. It will be
"some" series.
the national parks this summer and and niachinery have been ordered out
will be here after a visit tn Crater for shipment to Grants Pass to be
Instantly; shot Akers through the
,, head, seven shots heing fired In all.
i h Stone, alias R. B. Adams, a corresponding with seven empty
bad chwk artist wanted In Chiro and sholr8 foun(, nt tho of te ghoot.
uuiur v.auiurnia towns, pi ioa nis
trade for a few hours in Ashland re1-
ing.
BniiRninn rlniina that art nr 1m ohit
cently and got away with ten dollar. tho ,10rBPa di(, ot know w,mt
in trnUl n n rrt rich urh nh hnlnnirn.l In .
.. . .... -.u pened. but tells the story of the rest
course as will be given the Oregon
representative is worth $400.
Through the efforts of Emercon
MrMI'lIn Of am Vnt-lr iYn A tl K 1 K till T . t.. O Xtl 1
is adding 10 per cent to the $400 .The gentleman put up a plauslblo , , .
.m, i. ,in ..iw , . . V. , , , . ,, ness to the shooting is Bousmnn, and
which will be contributed towards the story and worked a slick came. He , .. j ' .
- ruHn iibuu was a zi-3 win-
first visited the store in the morning t.,lr8tflr carlne
of Monday, remarked that It was a. .. ,, ., . .. . ...
. . , . , . nousmnn his had trouble with tho
bad day to move, and stated that he Aknrs fan( fop th
had just come from Klamath Fa Is to ovpp ,,,, tcn?cs nnd
locate in Ashland and had a road.AltBr8 ,,,,,, to Ule
of household goods In the local rail- ,.,. ,., P...... .....
........... Lucrum ...ill IIU1IHU1HU S
oad yard . He said he would be In ,0RH worp rumllnR M ,a
1 I r,e ,t,;n",ngwilh ,the: On Saturday the county attorney
nun niiri nni in a lew jii ires
left.
traveling: bxpenses or the aeronautic
student.
Dunsmuir Trio in
Scandalous Affair
Lake. Mr. Watius is a close friend
of Mr. Frohbaeh and will spend sev
eral days here as his guest. The
used in its construction and equip
ment. These 74 carloads are in addi
tion to the materials that will be oh
Booze Powders Are
Without the Law
Civic Q ub will Invite him to address tained ln this region, all of them
them. coming from the east. Two cars, car
rying structural steel, have left Min
neapolis and are coming through on
schedule time, having passed Coun
cil Bluffs several days ago. The
J. F. Hocho gave the final talk,
making comparisons, some of which
were very much to the point.' Light
refreshments were served and a social
evening followed.
A powder from which an Ohio
company says "the most delicious
and mellow whiskey can be made"
comes within the purview of the pro
hibition law and can not be sold in
this state, according to an opinion
rendered recently by Attorney Gen
eral Brown at Salem for the district
attorney of Coos county.
The dls'rlc attorney asked tho at
torney general If it would be lawful
for a firm in Coos county to estab
lish an agency for the company.
Attorney General Brown held that
"Zanol" came within that provision
of the prohibition law which says
"all mixtures, compounds or prepara
tions, whether liquor or not, which
are Intended when mixed with water
or otherwise to produce, by ferment
ation or otherwise, an intoxicating
liquor, shall be deemed eo be em
braced within the term Intoxicating
liquor," aa defined In the law.
Boy Killed While
Beating His Way
The man who was killed when he
fell from the Shasta Limited Sunday
morning at Voorheis has been iden
tified as Fred McArdle, the son of
Mrs. Clara McArdle, of 1100 McAl
lister street, San Francisco, Cal. The
young man was one of four who
started from Portland to San Fran
cisco. One of his friends was on the
same car with him and saw him fall.
As soon as he arrived in Ash'and he
notified the police and a speeder was
sent out from Medford and the re
mains taken to that city, where he
was later Identified by his compan
ions. It is not clear whether he was
riding the rods or the blinds.
The man was not a professional
hobo according to his companion, but
was out of money and wished to reach
his mother, choosing to "beat" his
way.
The St. Helens Shipbuilding Com
pany have under construction at their
shipyard two five-masted auxiliary
power schooners.
Cazadero, Ore., is to be connected
with Garfield by railroad.. .
Angwin Appointed
Foreman Here
'' J. E. Angwin, who wag sent here
from the Bhops at Dunsmuir to take
charge of the local roundhouse forces
of the Southern Pacific foVowing the
recent shake-up, has had his appoint
ment confirmed and is now round
house foreman here. Mr. Angwin has
a wife and family ln Dunsmuir who
wtll join him here later.
shipments of 6teel from Minneapolis
will total 15 cars. The sugar-mak
Ing machinery will come from Ala
bam a, Pennsylvania and Ohio mak
ers, and 30 cars have been listed for
shipment as they are ordered out by
the factory builders. From Pennsyl
vania will come two cars of pumps
used in pumping the beet juice
through the factory, and five cars of
piping will be required. The boilers
wil". fill eight carat, and the engines
two cars. A certain grade of fire
brick needed will be obtained In
Pueblo, Col., seven cars of which will
come.
Much of the material for the fac
tory will be obtained here, including
the timbers, while quantities of
crushed rock, common brick, cement,
etc., will enter into the building. A
local firm has already contracted for
the supplying of 3,000 barrels of
cement. Rogue River Courier.
Fair Awards Are
Being Issued
In response to inquiry, the secro
tary of the international award sys
tem has written to H. O. Frohbaeh,
who represented Jackson county at
the" P. P. I. E., concerning the profr
able time at which the awards of suc
cessful exhibitors from Oregon at the
Panama-Pacific exposition will be
made, saying that "they will not be
prepared and ready for some months.
The diplomas are being issued in the
order of classification of tho exhibit
department and agriculture and hor
ticulture are both toward the end of
the list." I
Mrs. Rufus B. Williams of Duns'
muij-, her husband and 11. K. Moore
of the same place figured in a dra
matic climax to a calumnious affair
at a local rooming house Sunday
night of this week. H. K. Moore Is
now awaiting trial at Jacksonville
and the man and wife are In the same
city, where they wiI be called upon
as witnesses against Moore.
Mrs. Williams, who according to
her husband was an exemplary wife
up until she became acquainted with
Moore some two months ago, has been
living at the Allen rooming house In
Ashland for the paBt two weeks while
her husband believed her to be visit
ing friends here, and has on several
occasions received visits from Moore,
whom she met at skating rinks and
dances In Dunsmuir. Mr. WKHams
finally suspicioned what was going
on, and when Moore left Dunsmuir
on train No. 14 Sunday, followed on
train 16. At 1:15 Monday morning
Williams, having learned where his
wife was staying, went to the apart
ment in company with Patrolman
WImer. The woman at first dis
claimed anyone being in the apart
ment except her seven-year-old
daughter, but search revealed Moore
In bed. The womnn cursed her hud-
band, slapped him and fought him.
Will, lams took the afrair quietly and
did not use any rough language to
ward his wife, according to reports of
the affair. Although it Is understood
that he carried a revolver, he did not
make any show of it or offer violence
to either his wife or Moore.
The woman broke away from her
husband and ran up into the park
while on the way to the police sta
tion, but was soon captured and final
ly broke down when lodged behind
the bars at Jacksonville and confessed
the relations which existed between
her and Moore. The evidence of the
case was presented Monday to the
grand Jury and Moore will probably
have to stand trial at once.
Mrs. Williams Is the mother of four
little children and is about thirty
years of age. Up until the advent of
Moore into her life the Williams fam
ily was a happy onf.JHoore Is a
machinist and Williams a stationary
engineer in the Southern Pacific
shops at Dunsmuir. -
Ho returned later In tho day
nnd ordered about five dollars' worth
of groceries to be sent up on the
second morning de'ivery the next day
to 411 North Main street. The man
offered a check for fifteen dol'nrs on
the First National Bank, signed by
Yockey & Heaver and payable to R.
notified Bousmnn to keep his hogs
up. Bousmnn claims that at tho last
e'ectlnn his precinct had voted to al"
low ho;j;s to run at large anil that he
was In part justified In tho killing on
that nccount.
The killing occurred about 9
o'clock Sunday morning, but the bod
ies were not found until ft o'clock In
Ft Stnnn rnpnlvorl ha tan flnllnwa
. . T J, . , " ' th0 evening. Bousmnn had nken a
change and disappeared. He to d the ,. , , . ,.
1 u .... "0fie of 'o'son shortly before tho
grocerymen that he was a ro ative of .i..,,... ., .
n i oinn i . i . ... 8,1,!ri,f arrived and laid down on h s
O. J. Stone and wns to move Into tho i,j ,,, . , ,
, . ,"ed to die when ho was aroused by
Stone house.. ,, ,,, A. 7
c. , ... , , the sheriff. On the way to town he
Stone is wanted in severa places i..- ,,, , . . .. ,
. n.,, . . . , ' . became sick, but the poison il d not
In California and his description is take flrther effeot
on file at police stations throughout; nn . . . ... . ,,
.... ..,.,n iiic D lui j VI IIIO KlllinK
enf inly and shows no remorso. Me is
about 63 years of ngo and hns no
family. Both tho murdered people
were about 55 years of age and they
had no children. At the coroner's
Inquest no new facts were brought
out, the Jury charging Bousman with
the killing.
the west.
Grand Jury Finds
Two True Bills
Training Head
The grand Jury was drawn Mon
day morning and had throe cases! . .
submitted to them, from which two Pt7 tTllim ffatlll'll
true bills were returned. One, the, 4UV UMUI lUdlUai
Stato of Oregon vs. H. K. Moore, of
Dunsmuir, Cal., chargod with immor
ality, the State of Oregon vs. H. C.
Foster, charged with obtaining Ashland frle
money undor false pretenses. "Proc" Klum, who taught In tho man-
The grand jury consisted of S. S. lial training dopaitment and coached
Smith, foreman, of Medford; E. T. athletics hore last year, will be glad
Staples, Ashland; E. M. White, Cll- to learn that he has been elected head
max; W. F. Hilton, W. H. Jordan, ; or the manual training department at
Applogate; W. W. Matnoy, Jackson1-j Medford by the sohooi board. Mr
vllle, J. L. Wyland, Beagle. jKlum is a grnduate of Ashland high
ine grand jury naving rinisiied its school and Is taking college work and
works adjourned until May 15.
Phone Flue Fires
To Department
win receive his degree soon. He has
made a decided hit at Medford, where
he coached the winning football team
last fall and has developed a faster
bnskotbalil team than the city has
ever known before. Mr. Klum will
have an assistant to help him ln the
I manual training department n thnt
The fire department was called out hn mn , B0 "at
,.,,. . ".e mW S've a goodly portion of "Bis
time to athletics. "Proc's" many
Ashland friends wish him success ln
the manual training work and hope
that his team will beat all their op
ponents except Ashland.
this morning to keep watch over a
flue fire on East Main stret. Instead
of the customary single ring for a
flue fire, someone turned in the full
alarm, including the roundhouse
whistle, and the entire company
turned out.
When a flue fire occurg, the fire
department should be called up on the
phone and the city saved the expense
of paying the entire volunteer force.
A giant ship-building plant will ha
located at P'rtland, officials of the
Willamette Steel & Iron . Company and
the Northwest Steel Company announce.
1
