THE CENTRAL RECORD.
l'UHE RELWlOh, UNI A RNISHED DEMOCRACY AND 0001) GOVERNMENT
LANCASTER. KY., THURSDAY AFTERNOON. MARCH 2, 1916.
TWRNTT SIXTH YEAR.
NUMBkR 48.
IS
AT .1
mi. r ai iugi i
: t
How would you like to m
own a good Turning jg
Plow one that every 1
point you have will fit
perfectly, same as the j
one that comes on the i
plow.
We can furnish you this plow and It has so j
many good points, that you had better hi
come and let us explain them. P
qr We carry a full line of Implements.
t5
Conn Brothers.
!j LIVE AND LET LIVE FOLKS. j
Phone 43
For all Kinds of Job Printing.
Plumbing
STEAM AND HOT
WATER HEATING.
Try a real Plumber and be convinced on your
next work. All work guaranteed or no
charge. Phone 77 and I will do the rest.
No work to large or none to small.
Estimates cheerfully furnished.
M. L. Schwren,
Plumber and Manager.
Hand Us That $.
M. 8. Hatfield, Dentist, is now locat
ed in Lancaster. OUke over (Sarrard
Hank. Alt calls appreciated, tf.
Hughes & Hwincbroad are ottering
one of tin best farms in the cuunty lor
salu in thin Issue of the llccord. Hcbi!
the advertisement on page four. PimnPlt nnpnurrinit
A town never lose, anything by ex- MWIM UfLMllUN.
lending n royal welcome to every tie- Mr- '"chard Mclirath. formclv of
serving nlp.nirHr wl.n miriears in its lower warrant UUl who now resides at
ELIZABETH LLOYD
Purchased By J. W. Elmore.
MARRIAGE LICENSES.
Deputy County Clerk, K. M. Walker,
issued marriage license to John Met-
calf, aged 5KJ, son of Isalnh Metcalf, j The fanciest hred young caddie mare
and Miss Kate Davis, age l'J, daughter in these pnrts and n splendid individual
of John Davis. Itctli parties live in the beside, is "Elizabeth l.loyd" purchased
I'aint I.ick section of the countv.
ly J. W. Elmore of W. O Goodloe last
week. This heautiful piece of horse
llcsh was purchased tiy Mr. (ioodloc at
the sale of Mrs. Kichard Tasker Ixiwn
lies in Danville last fall. "Elizabeth
I.loyd" is by Kentucky's Choice and out
midst. Hospitality Is a priceless germ1 willen N-was operated on last 0f Mary Dick, the dam of Kebina I.loyd,
but it costs very little.
The editor of a newspaper may blow
his town sky high; it may soar in
rhapsodical (light to the stars, but if
it is without advertisers, people say it
is no Rood, and they are about right.
Did your wife take a vacation dur
ing the past vear? If not, see that she
gets one this year. Kverv woman
ieeds and should have, rest and recrea
tion, surrounded by new scenes where
cares may vanish, so says one or two of
our married men.
A superstitious subscriber, who
found a spider in his paper, wants to
know if it is considered a bail omen.
Nothing of the kind. The spider was
Just looking over the columns of the
paper to see what merchants were not
advcrlioing so that it could spin Its web
acro.s Ids store door and be free from
disturbance.
Wednesday for appendicitis. He travels recently purchased by Hilly Shropshire
for the Simmons Hardware Co", and I i n fnnpv lli.nn. Sh .1 v.nr.
was out on the road when the operation ' ig for $1000. The price gotten by
became necessary. Mr. McGrath is a I Mr. Goodloe was private, but is said to
son of Mrs. Nachie McGrath and a have been a good one.
MiiiMici u l nil, . live: nikui.ui ui tills
place and their friends join them in
wishes for a speedy recovery and the
restoration of health of their loved one.
Nine nnti-liiUor bills are before Con
gress, three to abolish the liquor traliic
ill the District of Columbia, one to for
bid liquor selling under Federal license
in violation of local laws, one to make
Hawaii dry, two prohibiting the sale or
gift of intoxicating liquors to minors
within United States admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, and two prohibit
ing the use of the mails in promoting
and advestising the liquor tratlic.
An exchange gives an incident that
illustrates the impossibility of telling
where the trouble resulting from a
mortgage will end. A man mortgag
ed his farm to buy his wife a pair of
earrings. The wife look in washing to
pay the interest on the mortgage, and
the first day lost one ot the diamonds
in the suds and tried to hang herself in
the barn, but the rope broke and she
fell on a $150 Jersey cow, breaking its
back.
LOST.
An old gold breast pin, with coral
rose bud in center. Liberal reward
will be paid to finder if left at this office,
ONSTOTT FARM SELLS.
The aale of Jeptha Onstott, which
took place last Saturday was well at'
tended and every thing sold well. The
farm containing about forty acres was
knocked oil to Mr. Nath Uogie for $0
an acre.
PICTURE SHOW
Open every Friday and Saturday
nights at 7:15 promptly. In case as
many as 250 people are not present on
these nights, it will clo3e every night.
SHIPMENT TO IRELAND.
Dakota Jack, that handiome speci
man of manhood, who takes his own
medicine, uses his own liniments and
soaps, came into the nllice one day this
week and showed us where lie had just
made n shipment of his remedies to
Ilelfast Ireland, and others to I'hillipine
Islands, Panama and Australia. "Had
news travels fast", and when sorno U.
S. citizens heard their loved were
sick in other lands they knew what to
send them. The shipment to Ireland
went to a druggist who wns having
calls for these wonderful remedies.
WILLS PROBATED.
Two wills were olfered for probate in
Judge Arnold's court last Monday. The
will of Jane Adams, colored, devises
that all her just debts be paiil first and
will's to her niece Elizabeth Adams, a
house anil lot in Duncan town, the re
mainder, if any, she gives to Mr. H. F.
Hucbon, who has so tenderly cared for
her during the last years of her long
life. The will was dated July 1914 and
names Mr. Shirley Hudson administra
tor. The last will and testament of
Nettie I.ee Kemper was offered for
probate, but owing to the absence of
witnesses to the will, it was deferred
until March court.
SUCCESSFUL SALE
At the sale of Hunter House on Feb.
23rd, the CO acres of land was purchas
ed by Mate House for $90.30 per acre.
rersonal property sold well. A 3 year
old mare to J. W. liourne for $158; a 9
year old mare to Les I'arsons.for $82.60;
3 year old mare for $77: yearling mule
$G4; jersey cow $57.50; sow and pigs
$30. Corn brought $3.95 per barrel.
There were a number of contending
bidders on the land and it was after
wards sold to P. T. Urown.
The success of this sale is attributed
to Hughes ane Swinebroad, as sale
managers.
CONTRACT RENEWED.
James D. Hatcher was this week, for
the third consecutive time, awarded the
contract for carrying the mail between
Danville and Lancaster. His new
agreement will not terminateuntil June
It h Episode of Graft, Friday.
Episode of Ilrokcn Ccin Saturday,
I week.
1st 30, 1920. For twelve years Mr. Hatcher
this
CRITICALLY ILL.
BUGGIES
The best and cheapest on the market.
All kinds of HARNESS. Perfect Satisfaction.
old most mm
Runs Lighter and Lasts Longest.
WIRE FENCE,
has carried the mails over this line,
wiui never one complaint tiled (or any
failure of duty or objectionable conduct.
For several years he used a wagon and
horses, but Inter bought an automobile.
He carries passengers and has built up
a good business in this line. He is erv
We regret to chronicle the critical
illness of Mr. J. W. Hamilton at his
home on Maple Avenue. Mr. Hamilton popular with the traveling public and
returned from Cincinnati last week, people along his route. While he is
where he went for treatment and lias very nroud of his recoid. et Mr.
g' Headquarters For M
I Plows and Plow Gear.
F. P. FRISBIE
Appointed Polic Judge By Cor. Stanley.
At a call meeting of the City Council
last Friday night the resignation of
Judge J, P. Prather, as Police Judge
was olfered and was immediately ac
cepted by the council.
Mayor L. G. Davidson has been fill
ing this ollice since the resignation of ) .j
Judge Prather and will continue so un
til his successor is appointed by Gov
ernor Stanley.
The council unanimously endorsed
Mr. F. P. Krisbie for the placo and his
appointment is looked for at any time.
Mr. Frishie is one of our most progres
sive young business men and his friends
predict that the ollice will be just to
his liking. With "Judge" Frisbie on
the bench, the bootleggers and other
law violators of the city will have to
hike to fairer fields and pastures green.
I.ATKR Mr. Frisbie received his ap
pointment from Governor Stanley last
night and will be sworn in to-day by
the County clerk. Our hats are oft" to
you "Judge Frisbie."
See our Vulcan Hill Side
Plow. The strongest and
best hill side Plow.
gi A complete line of Plow Gear, Collars, Bri
dies, Back Bands, Trace Chains, Etc.
1
S3
Haselden Bros.,
Wholesale and Retail Hardware.
M Lancaster,
Kentucky
BIG CATTLE SALE
R. E. Hughes Sells Seventy Head Of
Herelords.
One of the biggest cattle deals that has
been pulled oft" in the county for several
months was consummated last Saturday
when Mr. K. E. Hughes sold his entire
herd of young Hereford steers to Messrs
J. E. Kobinson and W. II. Drown of
this city. These cattle were purchased
by Mr. Hughes last September in Mis
souri and were considered one of the
best bunches of young cattle ever in
the county. They run uniformly in size
and color and each shows the distinct
feature and characteristic white face of
this popular breed. There was about
seventy head in the bunch and the
average weight was 725 pounds. The
price paid was $7.25 a hundred.
Messrs. Kobinson and Drown expect
to feed these cattle through the winter
and graze until about the middle of the
summer, when thev will again be put
or the market.
raJl
'ntiMigflfafgfailljg'afei iMlIMMMSlJrlilJrWijSLa
gone down rapidly since his return.
Tlie chances for his recovery are slim.
nitiinnnnrtr nnnnimiAii
A OULLLwrUL UrtKAlIUK. ,
Miss Florence Action, daughter of
Dr. J. M. Action, had a severe attack ,
of appendicitis last Tuesday and was
operated on Sunday, The operation,
which was performed between attacks.
was entirely successful and her friends
EYESTRAIN HEAD
ACHES RELIEVED.
Dr. Ilyrne's Drugless. Painless Tet
and Scientifically Glasses will do the
work. H.
TWO BOLD NEGROES
HOLD UP RENNER.
Mr. Charles IJenner, a brother of
Mrs. It. Zimmer, of the Kengurlan
Hotel, who is the proprietor of the
Depot Kestauratit, in Danville, was held
Hatcher is honest enough to give much , up at the point of a revolver one iic.ht
' credit for success to his estimable wife , last week and robbed. The tcene of ,
who can manipulate the auto as good or the bold hold-up was on Mam street,
better than Jim. -Danville Messenger. ; near the First Presbytiriuu church.
Mr. Rentier had been Uji lov.n and was
I
1
I
I
1
I
(!)
(!)
i
I
1
ii
You will find the following at
CURREY'S Store.
Sliced Boiled Ham, Sliced Dried Beef, Minced
Lunch Meat, Winnie Worst, Fish and Oysters
Fresh Country Milk Received Daily.
Exc usive Agent for Stones Cakes
Silver Slice, Golden Sunbeam, Mephisto,
Raisin and Creole Fruits.
JITNEY BUNS
Received
Monday, Thursday and Friday, afternoons.
Theo Currey.
8
TRAGIC THOUGH TRUE.
j on his way to the restaurant to helpoul
upon the arrival of the midnight trams
On hut Wednenluv a tall unknown 1 fiom I'iiiciiinatl. The hold-up Uok
nun, with a ferocious mustache and p'uee ubotit II o'clock. 'I ne victim win
wearing:! slouch hat, was seen to walk quietly walking west when two negroes
rapidly across the public square, hold- approiched. They were talking to each
are looking forward, with pleasure, to inf. jlty ,0 )ai.k.)?(; CHrvfu,y M , otller howw, llo KVtlivlKV ul
her speedy recovery
BILLY SPEITH SICK
When put up It stays up.
Stoves and Ranges.
They can't be beat for cooking and lasting.
PLOWS That Satisfy:
Best Hoofing, Paints and Oils, pure Linseed
not Cotton Seed.
W j. ROMANS,
Lancaster, Ky.
We are indeed glad to report that our
good friend, Hilly Speith is now conval
escent, from an acute attack of grip,
having been confined to his room in the
Kengarlan for the past two weeks.
No one in the city or county has more
friends than Mr. Speith and all will be
glad to know that his recovery will be
rapid.
BUYS NICE STALLION.
in a red bandanna handkerchief. There highwaymen until they had nil ten on u
was in his eyes the gleam of a sujipres-1 line even with .Mr, Keniu r, when tliey
sed excitement; the lingers of lm right wlupiwd out revolvers and demanded
hand were nervously gripping the hilt that he hold up his hand ai d bo
of a large "revolver, which piotruded eaiched. One of the uegioes punched
from mi overcoat pocket. From time abigrevoler against Mr. Kenner's
neck and held it there, until the other (
hud se-iicheJ liim. They not adiaiiiond i
ring and $1 M in ensh. Mr. Iteniieri
was telea.ed and went on to theatution
wlule tlie negroes lied.
Two negroes were nrrestid ii Somer
set suspected of having robbed Mr.
j M3Wci tWj 1 1 Ljj
International Stock Food
Halls Hog Cholera Remedy.
Siiotklys Hoy Cholera Remedy.
if Bourbon Hog Cholera Remedy
$ This is the time to use it as a cure or pre-
ventative.
J AftcffftfoBFiis Dpuq Store
to time hu gleamed furtively incr Ids
shoulders and setmed to ee with sus
picion and concern anyono who np
proached. To observers who had nottd
his strange actions, lie was seen to
maku u bee line for a large fo. titled
henili warehouse, located near the I &
N. tracks, und disappear tluough tlie Itenncr who went to Someuet and
open door of that building. In u few identified thorn us his assailants. They
II- t-l. I. I I , mnniitiild tltn Inmiilt i-t Vitton. Ii 'iir II h Veli, tit-Hlli'llt tli DnilVltl.l II Hi I iil.lml tn .
air, joun iii, Anion, 01 uucaeye, nas "w "tii,ih - - r-- ;
recentlyvurchased of Madison county hotly on the inside, rose litfully above" Jail to uwait the action of the April j
parties, a handsome I'ercheron stallion, "o waijing north wind. He soon , grand jury. Tlio moil proved to be j
for which he paid a fancy price. Those reappeared however, with u loll of Claud Thompson und Christopher
who have seen this horse pronounce him money as big as two dollars worth of Htdlelieigor, who were reicasad fiom
one of the very best of his class. He lettuce, w Inch he waivedaloft in triumph Hie Uamillu work liouso lat lliurtilay i
will make a season on the farm of Mr. d which ho speedily deposited in one morning, lliey were urrrteu as tramps
Anion this spring and a full description of the local banks. He had just sold 'in Ihu Dauvlde yards a short time ago
and pedigree will appear in these col. for cash, three quarts of first class ' und sei.tencvd for trespuMing, I
umns later. hemp seed. . nnr, nnnnmiMr niinnmin1
U UUK LUUfl XI r ilKUAft
PICTURES OF LANCASTRIANS JUKI flON.Ll ! our new store Is equlpp-!
Saturdays Courier Journal contained a TllC IHOIiey due the jury- ed With everything VOU
.pienu,u.Ke.,e..oIuva,aiel .uc.an meu ror servin the last need. We nay the highest
lirant: who is pasiing creditable ex. . " , ..... ..w t..j .....w.
aminations at Annapolis, coming out woveiiiDer lermis reauy ior market price ror your pro-
with high marks where bundred4 of distribution. Please Call rilirp. Rrlnd It to US Ami
..ll ----- u
Monday, Uuisv.lle Times contained ul m3 ulu,-c ul "ul"J ",B
a handsome picture of Miss Kay Acton and Will Iltttil Check,
and . recent l.sure of the Courier! F F HugheS,
Journal displayed a group showing five " .
generations ol the Ward family. Trustee Jury Und.
get A FKEE HITCH at Dock
Lee's Livery Stable.
Dlckerson & Carrier.
i-rf-tf
DC
FINE ENGRAVED WEDDING
INVITATIONS,
Announcement Cards and Calling Cards.
Beautiful Flowers
For Gifts, Dinners Wed
ding's and Funerals.
STORMES DRUG STORE.
Best Fountain Service in Town Served in a
Sanitary Manner.
11 II
1C
1L
a;
II
I
ta
58
