IK Jmtt tt$i
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1916
NUMBER 36.
ERIN
E
LEAVES V EH DU N
FRONT FOR BERLIN
HOLDS DELINQUENT RILY RECORD VOTE
IIEHJ WILL SATISFY
UN TWO KEt EKEN DU MIS
ieuions mg intensive lias
Ceased us Far As Infantry
Attacks Are Concerned hut
Bombardments Keep l'p.
NEXT MOVE PROBLEMATICAL
Supreme Court Sets Aside the Opinion of Attorney-General
Barber in Mandamus Proceed
ings Brought by Thomas W. Martin of Brook
held against Board of Civil Authority, Who
Removed His Name from Check List, because
of Unpaid Taxes.
PRESIDENT WILSON
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
Mor.t;i(.lirr. Jt.n -I' : - bolliiqurnt tn.-cty shall ml! a secelat mfcllr.'.; "pro-
.icrs mij- mhc mi StHto ispiifrf nt town vhhnt: for an opportunity of the fiei-
tVltVlhcr Kaiser's Tl'OOUh Al'e ''"'e'b'Kn m Vermont next Tuesday, the men of this Stmo to express tlioir Judg-
r"t'"-" 'wmt i nivu ii t ic iriuu .in- iiirm iiim fount' in regain 10 mis ci,
Congress Is Served with Formal
Notice That the Executive
Demands Action on Resolu
tions Relating to Armed Ships.
i COUP ROMISE DESIRED
Contented with. (Jains or
Will Use Rift Guns on Captur
ed Positions for New Attack
Is Not Indicated.
loudon Mnreli 2 Tin Geiiiutn llm-
to Germany Tuesday, aceoidiitf; to a
Jluttetdam despatch to tin L.uly .Mall.
The Germans in the lnitlk-M ill U'd i-
Vinn of Verdun continue their bnmh.iril-
liicnts west of tlie Mouse In the legion
I'd worn Ainla penult ami Forges, across
1 tr..,.. ........... ,;... . ....1...
In ihc Woovre legion, southeast of Ver-dim.
'I heir olg offMis-uc, however, so far a?
in'.iiiir aim' i, air unireriirn, nan
nscil at H'lisi lor tin' iiioinpul. Whether
li vll begin again m whrther the Ger
mans wi" rp3t lonlent with the points,
of vantage they have g.iini el Is not Indl
lated 111 Hip offMi.it ictorts of ellhpr
Pcrlln or Tails.
I nolfliln' .idvh'cs fiom lioilln have
r-'ated that the German plan of cam
I'littu has Iippii t 1 r i m . 1 1 1 1 based on the
onnihnrdmPiit of Motors lin-y desire lo
fci lain, and It I? pussihle that they may
lien br drawing up 'heir bis Kims to
ip t"red posrimis with the i.birel of
ilio'llnp points nc.ircr their oujedivo
erdun
hast of eidiri mound Punt-a-Mous-
un the Fret pli have boinhaiilpd German
positions heavily In l.p Protto Wood and
nmr Thlaentirt Aitlller duels have
"pen In progress in Alsaep. Their has
feti no resumption of German attacks
figilns,t the l'rtir i m the Champagni
j'clon
'Mie nothn ; of especial importance
tiouneed to-night. , do., an! section h'l of the act rends.
The court tunt lo spoi'ln' r.esslon thlr "nil regulations provided by law for
vick to eonslde the question raised by i conducting freemen's meetings shall be
Thomas W. .Martin of Hrookfle'.d. who applicable to the volett piovlded for on
brought a wilt of mandamus asking the fb.p referendum, a provldpil for !i. re
I'ourt to set aside the opinion of .ttor- ' tlon I"! of this net." tty the act of
tioy-General It. G. Itarbei- to the effect 1 Kilj jolntlnj? to tho piopored .'irtlelps of
that n le?islat!v net of lnt ' oul I' ntrendrfnt to the eonstlttn !on, S'tlon
ptovent dellnouptit taprij e: from vo'.- tun oroviile.l that the peopl" srould 1
111? on Slate Issue.. assembled for tie purpose of ' o'lni: on
TI!R f'Orrs'PS OPINION. 'said articles In the resppetlve toi ns lino
Thomas YV. .Martin vs C II. I'ullatu, clu"''1 ,u s"1'1"r "'! 'ln..o as
A. D. Reed. II, iilcelow. !'. I'. I.am- rr ,!w "n1!;i town or city iiieeiini,-, ai.d
sou, U I. Stone. C. K. l-olb-iisbep. tl,al ,h famine for each nn ethut
i:ach. the prlmarv ,nt and the pt o-, "1"1 1,1 K'Htnlti an nrlldc- "to see If tho
hlbltory nil. 's a public law r.Iatiti:;
lo a public subie. t nffiTlltifr alike tin'
entire Stall-. 'i'b,' subject matter of
each Is one . 1 1 which, from a. b'Kal
standiiolnt, the people of the whob
State are equally interested. Ilach
act has become a law to take effp't
rreplHPii will vote to aecepi or reject
I he propo.-ed artlclis of amendmei.t. to
the constitution of Vermont."
Ilv the act of iniL', Xo. 1,';, to provide for
the eiei'Uon of a State bulldiin: it was
provided that the sp'ectmen ol each town
when pi'pparlnp; the warnliui for the mi
nt a future time Irrespective of what meetmc in r.ui saomo incur-
the result r.f ti.e vntn i, iti.. n,i..vtlo po'.He In sueli watninc an article, in
submitted by the referendum tnnv be.
but Hie two of taUInc effect Is coti-
tlnirpiit upon the lesult or such Mif
short, lo see if said act should "become
a law July 1, int." Section bl of that act
Had.'. "AH letrulations provided bv law
The subieet m.itt.r ot each enactment f'" '""'""'i n.K Kenernl elections --hall be
Is ol such public importance that the
Legislature In Its wisdom, deemeil it
advisable In this manner to ascertain
tho leal public opinion concernltm tin
act, and upon that public opinion, as It
may be expressed in the wav provided
for. was made to depend which of the
two times speeilled th act should take
effect.
Midi. In short, be'um the nature and
import. hop of the act. wis It the in
tention of the Legislature to r,et such I
expression of opinion by ole of alL
the freemen ot the State all of whom !
arp equally intPicttcri theieln. or was1
It the Intention of the Leulslntme tol
Kot such expression of opinion from '
those only who, b- law, are entitled,
to vote In town meetinsrs upon mat-1
ters relntlupf cNcliiMvely to the tevn ,
or ft in which the votes are siven?
If the latter and not the former was
iC'ih able to the o LP pi ovab'd for on
the leferendum a hereinbefore provid
ed" There as in the ad under consid
eration. It was made the duty of the see.
retarv of State, to furnish the town clerk
uf cadi town with ballots to he used In
sueli voting and be was to cam ass the.
leturns made lo him bv tho town clerks
as in the tesult of the Mite and issue hl
proclamation certifying the result of the
President Makes His Position
Clear as Climax of a Day of
Confusion, Uncertainty and
Political Manocuvcrinjr
KOtialions Suspended.
ADDISON COU'in
MIDDLEBURY.
I The reports ot the town officials for
'. a year wero puhlished Thursday. Krom
tlie leports of til" auditors It appears
that orders were drawn dltrlnp; the.
year b the selectmen nmoiintlnp; to
JlS,S2t',S!i; by tlie poorniMSter, $1,500.77;
ami by the road commissioner, ."S."S. -US.
total, SIS. I The liabilities of
the town arc Selectmen's orders out
RtnndliiK. ?l!i.'J2D..': pool master's or-
Idots ntltHtandlnp, 24SaVJ; State school
tax', $Z,43!T;; State highway tax, $1,
Clfi.19! town hall orders due In October,
Sl.nort: estimate for support of the
poof. .2.000; estimate for bulldlnp; and
repairs of hrldKos. SI, 000; salaries for
town officials, $,100; which, with a
number of smaller items, make a total
of J. R.0i'.2l. With cash in tlie treas
ury of M.OSV.l'I. there uro estimated
assets of Js.jflS J4, and this, with ?7.
7 SO of town orders not. due, leaves the
amount to be raised by taxation. MS.-
-Ne-
J. GRANT LYMAN,
'hey have been lo visit his daughter,
.Mrs. Walter Small. M'ss l'sther Krost
of Hattl.ind U in town to visit her par
entH, .Mr. ami Mrs. K. A Trost. .1 P.
Iloyt has returned from Whltln?. whete
ho preached at the I'otiKrcKatloiial
t'hiirch Sunday. Monday, market day,
CPs broiiRht al lo 3.1 cents and butter
HI to nt cents. I'lCd TV. Itockwlth lett
Sunday noon for New York on a few
'ays' buslnors trip. I. P. fttshman nun
son, Harry L. ( 'ushm.iti. left Sundiiv noon
for Hostop. vvliete thev will spend len
days on business.-Mrs. Mauley Winch
anil son. fitanlny, who have hei-n vlslt
Ins; st the home of her mother, Mr
(lllmorc. for n wvek, have returned to
Plttsford.-l!. Morcomb and family have
i ommenced lo move to the Kddy farm
iiiEt south of this vlllaisp, which he will
larry on this season. -Soven Inches ol
snow fell Saturday and Sunday and there
,m now more snow on the (,'round pud
belter sleiKliint; than nt any ptevlous
time thlH winter. -Mrs. G. IT. V. Allen,
who has ben vislllns In Wcybridac at
the home of her paients. Mr and Mr
Creorne. rhibl, lias returned to t'alt
Haven. Miss Ada Smith has returned to
ALLEGED llilER
A astiiiialon. M.irch 1. i'.-esab ill WiImih
served notice on Consess to-nli;ht that
he will consent lo nothing less than a
i word vote on the nntl-adinlnlstiatlon
icMihitious to wain Amcilians off .nnieil
7KS.07. The imilltors estimate tluit a
tax of S.'i cents on the dollar will pay I Proctor after a week here at the home
nil outstanding orders, except town i i f her parents. Samuel 1 Mil has re
hall orders not due, and the ex'pense ' turned from a soveral days' b;is!nes
of runnlnt? the town for the comlne; trip to llurlliiKton. Mrs. T. .1. Wlssell
year. In case the underpass amount- of Shonhnm Is vIsillttK at tho home of
iiiK to $.-,7;lJ Is allowed to remain en -Mrs. Stokes. Mrs. Kva Pond ot llrld
Interest, a tax of r,r, cents on a dollar nort Is In town for a few days' visit to
will be sufficient. Unlet h were ilnvvn her son, Irn Pond, mid family In the
by the school directors for the outside llattcll block. I larry Vassau has enter
districts since August for St I ,tt t 20. I , the employ of Iwls Tlcntleld as de
and tin- estimated oxpinse for these livery man.
districts for the coming year Is (..". 2T,i;. . Arrangenipnts have been completed
BACK IN NEW YORK
Charged with Obtaining $300,
000 from People of the Coun
try by Selling Them Alleged
Oil Stocks as .1. H. Putnam Co.
STOOD TO CLEAN UP MILLION
Would Have Done So Had Ho
Pccn Permitted to Operate
Six Weeks Lunger Lyman
with Plenty of Cash Was Ar
rested at St. Petersburg, Fla.
the
(ierm.in tubir.ailin
ships of Kuiopean hclllget cuts befoie heiTh.'ie cash on ham) of $l,',r,.:.Sfl, for a pu'i"'' debate between Prof. I!a-
which with other funds makes the total 1 inond Mcl'atland. i epi i seiiting Mnt'-v.nlc
assets Ji.i'Oi.sri. bjavlii' the amount to prohibition, and Mavor K. !" llaifun of
b piovlded for lax .:!, I .'.7. 1 foe Ilolfast, Jle., an advoi it of tot al option,
which a tax of ."i0 cents on tho dollar at the town hall Sunday afternoon at
wit! lie sufficleii!. I ' ire,, o'dock. The ''en'ury club held a
A meeting of the boaul of i Ivll author-1 veil attended meeting at the home of
Itv will be li-ltl in the town cleik's of- , Mrs. S. It. Allies on South street Tiles
flee this evening and Saturday evening. ''ay evening. About couples wore
Maidi (, al 7:.7i o'clock, foi Ibe purpose , present nt the middle-aged married peo
of revising the check list lo be used at ' pb-'s dame at the Miroui Temple Jinn
the town muetmc March 7 M-s. It. I, 1 dav evening. I'alhoun's .i' 'w.ti.i furnib.
Hrous'i liis gone to f" Aib.ins. wheic nl th.- music and the Indies furnished a
(joes on with
negotiation"
No i ompmmlse piopositioii, such as a
vote of conlldenee In the President s for
eign poll'.v, will be acceptable. ,wuc h an
action. It is held, might be construed in
ISerlin a iusllfying the opinion tint the
Picsilcnt lacks the sltppoil of Congress
and his own party In his demands for a
full ch'ervanre of inlernatlonal law,
wiille lis onlv purpose would be to nflord
membeis of Congress n v to avoid
iccorlmg their portions l.protc the loun
tr on the struiglu. out-aml-ont ques
tion. Pi evident Wilson made his position dear
to congressional leailets to-night In
unequivocal terms, as the climax to a
day of confusion, imceitainly and political
manoeuviltig that marked the opening of
his Irst real fight with Congtcs.
'l If In A.v,.,l,.,L..,a !. II.. 1 .i.i,.l n ,
vole and declaring the time when the , . . .. ,
.. . .. . , . b-olute- ief..cs to continue the ncgo-
. , . . I n, ... "I 1. .,,11, , I, I III. 1l . II l I I III," tl 1 1 I ' lll
loo. that in sc- ! , , , , ... , . , ,
.. "l , "llrilC IS 1 III I II. ILV.IS III.IOC ItllWWO
her husband is engiiKed I" business. I lei
apartments In the Panel! bloi k hnve
bi-en taken b Mr. ar.d Mrs. M. Lavoncho
of llrandon. - Ms. (icorse H. Mead,
who has been visiting her aur.t.
CMiss 1. A. Goodrich, a few weeks,
has teturiwl lo Glen Midge, N. ,1
banqtnt at thp i lose Anliur ritzpa trick
is moving his fatnily to the Niu-li farm
on New Haven river, which he has taken
for a term of venrs. Miss Jennie VVilght,
who has been confined fur some time with
an injured Knee, rnuscd from a fall, 1
slowlv recoveilng anil is now able lo bis
lis taken place alone the Hrli:b part of I the Intention, then it was the ptilpo-M
ne Hup the effect of the German uffnu-luf the Legislature to get an expression
si e in tlie Verdun r"gion In sh"W-n in the 1 0f opinion concerning the two public
lengthening of their i-rnnt In order to re-a,ts of State-wide IntPrPSt and im
Jea e the Prcpe'i for the reorganization of iportancp, from a podlon onlv of the
Hie a' 'i opposing tlie German adxance frotmon f tlf! state, excludpig from
loftidal advices li, id placed the extreme ' ti,0 iq-lvilege of expressing such an
k hern end ot the Pritish line In the! opinion a portion of the freemen be-
in of L-piis I he latent Hritish otn- citUR(, am nny i,PCause they failed to
(ommuilcation ronorls tlie Ttrltlsh romniv with a law affording so far as
the Individual ttMiman is concerned
the Interest of the particular town or
cits in which he resides. While It may
not be i constitutional prlvlbige to
votp upon tbee two questions sub
mitted bv the Logislaturo It would not
he going far astray to say that when
such an expression of opinion by way
of referendum is provided for by the
Legislature to become a public privi-
1"- 'ii g rorth of the Some, whnh would
pit tint 'bev hnve ptietdicd their
1 1 - , s -iftweei ;M and l' miles down to
i-c region of Amicus.
t ' tie is going on In Ilitia except sn-
Jnled xmibardments and Infantrv attack"?
t id air raids. On the Ita'I.in flout the
JtaiUns have occupied and consolidated
n Austrian posIMon on Mount Marmo
'ada Klsewhere In this region only ar
tillery bombardments have prevailed,
On the Asian battle lipids the Itpssians
coi tit) 'i their ours, lit of the Turks In
the Caucasus region and in Persia.
Giu-muii.v, ai . ording to a despatch from
Marti Id, has sent an ultimatum to
t'oitugai, ui manumg Hie tcieasp wiinm
45 horns of the Interned German stentn
eis seized by Portugal
S c.erman seaplane has dropped bomb"
oi the southeast coast of Ktiglnud. No
n-" l.irj damage was done.
It i-hould bp noticed
tlon of the prlniaiy ,T t under conlrt
cniilon, and section Sfi of the prohlbl-
iloiy ad uiiiler i onsldernlinn. the wind
"ballots" does not mean the same as
"rule" and dops not me. Ml thp same as
j the wotd "soles " 'Hie two sections
refer to "ballots to bp used," meaning
' the same thing as the same expression
In the lueccdent section 111 each net,
! where piovlslon is mad 3 for the furnlfh
llig by the secretary ot state of "ballots
to be used," elc. The word "votes" as
used In said sections. 21 and ,V, has
reference lo tlie ads of the voters in
Ibe ue of such ballots (so State ex re'
McCue vs. ninisdcl! fX. I) ) W. N. W
"Tol. and the last clause In each of the
section."- lart referred to has referenca
to sin h regulations for conducting a
general election as ate appropriate to the
conrtud of voting In the particular town.
Giving this construction, the matter of
check llst not being mentioned, we think
the acts contemplate that the genera!
provisions of P. S. Vi, le'atlng lo check
lists nl local elections, should govern.
There is nothing Indicating that any
check list Is lequlred except under that
section and the requirement depends up
on the town bring of moie than 4,i""i
that the Pulled States does not consider
the latest assurances from Count Von
Bornstnrff, the GcrniHii ambassador, as
broad or na satisfactory us those origi
nally given. No further step will he
taken, however, while the. President walls
on CouRTes". (Meanwhile the pending
Lusltania a.reemp'.t will not be finally
accepted.
-Tile harm, of msrHaile were nub, lulled ! about with tho aid ot a i : lit ell. - AVIlltlf Id
for the first time at St. M,irv"s Catholl"S I'otmiman and fnmllv will niop to the
Church Sundnv for Mls Maigai-et Van'P-1 Powers farm on the New Haven river
Idle and Harold Murr.i" of -ornwal'. -' 1 hl w eek P.obert T. Mmse has gone
Supet mlendcnt Arthur W. Kddv will hold to Hutl.iud to spend lv i weeks wi!h his
i teaciiPis' p-vrnmlnatloi! In the graded ; landly. Mr.s. Itnnsom Malloi v ami
school building Thursd.iv nnd Irilda, daughter, Miss Golrtv Mallory of Hart-
March '.' and M-s. Hattie Hnnnlng Is i lord, Conn., arc visiting in this vidnity.
111. -Mt Mary Rol,in las returned from ' Mr. and Mrs. frank Muniblo have te-
tt'iilinston. where she spent 10 davs I turned from a week's isit with iclntlvo.-,
ARMED LINER SAILS
DESPITE GERMAN THREAT
frs. A. D. Vitltim is ill - Miss Gcrtcudo
lIodws of JUirllngton is In town to visit
her pa cuts. Mr. and Mr. George Hodges.
Miss Maude Wlssiill who ben on-
finert to the house for two weeks bv 111
nens, has so fur recovered as to be able
he out nraln The marble mill at
F.rldens, owned by th Vermont M.trbl? i
17,'t l'nseiigcr on nonril 'ISjto Itnllnu
Ilorii American Cltlrens on 1,1st.
Nevv York, March 1. The Italian steam
ship Guisoppo Verdi, the first armed ves
sel to leave American phoies slncp the
now Austro-German submarine pnlicv
went Into effect, sailed from here late
to-day for Naples and Genoa
She carried among her 17:1 passengers
two Italian horn American citizens In the
steerage. The Verdi hart mounted on her
after deck the two naval guns with which
she was equipped two months ago. lie
fore sailing copper air tanks were tltted
into her lifeboats.
lege, of the freeman ot the State t" I Inhabitants or upon npplh allon In writ
exerciso the right of expression ot lnR ,jf .jn or moro ,lf ,hr u.:iI voters
opinion thereon. If it mav properly Mnf. preSPnxei to the s. lecimen theic
be classed as such a privilege, then,!folp , ritnor f ,,. OVpnts Hip
to deny a freeman the right to vote ' .!,.,., llu. nr(. rpqnltpd nl least su days
thereon in the manner given to other t,f,,,. .ilf) .llmi town niPPtbor n. make
FIRE DESTROYS OLD
BONA V ENT U R E STAT 1 0 N
freemen of the Stat" for some reason
not recognized bv the constitution,
raises the grave question whether his
constitutional rights are not infringed.
Section I'd of the State constitution pro
vides that even- man of the full age of
I '.'1 years and having th other qualifica
tion Micrlfled therein nnd who will take
the oath or affirmation there following,
"Shall he entitled to all thp privllegi s
Monlrcnl l.niidmnrk llurnert nt n Loss
of 5"tnl,(HM).
Montreal, March 1. Tin RonavciT
tut o station of the Grand Trunk rail
road was burned to-day at a loss esti
mated at ''100, noo. The police declaro
that a preliminary investigation Indi
cated that the firo wan caused by cross
crt vires, but fire department officials
mi they liavn rcat-nn to bollcvo that
tho bulldtnK w.Bfl destroyed as tho re
mit of nn enemy plot
Tho llameH first hurst out In n tower
Jn which stationery was Htored. He.
fore the fire department could rench
the scene, tho lire had spread with
rreat raplrtlty to the other parts of
I ho structure, which wan an old one
and largely constructed of wood. Tho
tempi rature was below pro and the
I rcrncu sufferurt severe!
In nddltion to the Grand Trunk rail
road tlm station was used by tho c.m-
irtiali government tailwnvs, the Pcla
vai'B and Hudson rallwajs anil thu
c'cntral Vermont,
Howard G, Kclley, vice-president of
the Grand Trunk railway, issued a
statement later In thu duy declaring
that the fire was accidental In Its or
igin, being caused by a short circuit
it check list of the persons qualllled to
vote .it such meeting, cause copies there
of to be posted, etc If no check list
has been provided, as required by that
section, the right of a man o vote the
questions, of the leferendums under con
sldei allon does not depend upon the
presencp or nbsppce of a check list, but
rnlher upon whether lie falls within the
class of voters contemplated bv (he Leg-
TO PROMOTE NAVAL
OFFICERS BY SELECTION
of
( LOSER RELATION OF
AMERICAN REPUBLICS
oi a crenuin m uns nuuo. v, mm Wlatiiro If a check list wero required
constitutional question was presented in'.,. ,.... )mV7l . .,, .... ,n(1
I , s. scctlnii of llHcrniitliiiuil High
iiininlsNlnn l Visit Soiilli Ainerlcii
Wnshlnglon, March 1. Arrangements
wore completed to-day fur tho South
moriciiii visit of the, Prilled Stales sec
tion of tho International high commis
sion, to continue tho work begun at tho
.Pan-American financial conference) held
horn last May. The tour, regarded by
administration leartirs as an Important
'ep towarrt development of closer rcln
' u s among tho Amorlcaii icpubllcs, will
I 1 1 ale confoicriceH wllh financiers '""1
,i oilldals of civeial countries and
,L , i nn i ' the annual meeting of tho
f I en mil s-lmi a ll icuos Alms, vlioic
i i.e lions of 1 i Iforpi Icglrlatum on mary
topli tt tominci' ial Inlcrc : will jc rtla
cursed.
argument and Wo do not docldei the one
suggested, still tho privileges thoro guar-
nntoecl arc not to bo lost sight of( In
detonnlnlng the question beforo us.
l.'ach of tlie atrtfl of 1$lfi provides that
tho ballot clerks, board of civil authority
and the town and city clerks shall per
form the panto duties in respect to th"
ballots to be used thereunder as arc
imposod upon theme, officials by Chapters
11 and lli of tho Public Htatutos except
as otherwise provided In the act, "And nil
regulatJotHi provided by law for con
ducting genornl elections shall be ap
pllcablo to the votes provided for In this
act," the two chapters named have refer-
enco iglvlng the titles of tho chapters!
(11) to ballots and (12) to warning and
conducting deletions. In considering the
meaning of tho provision making ap
plicable to tho votes proVCed for all
regulaUorm prtvfV'go by law for conduct
ing general elections, light is had oy an
examination of other statutes by which
questions of general Interest throughout
the Stato havo been submitted o the
people.
Thu term "general election' Is defined
by wectlon five of tho public statutes tol
mean, "any election of States and county
officers, representatives to the General
Assembly, icpieacntatlvos to Congress or
electors," (by No. 1. soctlon 1 of acts of
1I3 it is made, to includo United SUtes
senators) and throughout tho public
statutes, "revision of 100C," tho term
"general election" is uniformly used to
designate what before had commonly
been known as "freonien's meeting. '
This nccoitntB for the change in language
In providing for the referendums In the
two ucts of uifi, from what It wiih m
previous acts under which eloctlons wein
submitted to tho people. Thus In tho
act of 1S52, prohibiting traffic In Intoxi
eating liquors, Eoction provided for
tho holding of meetings In tho several
lowris "at which tho freemen of this
Slate may expiess their Judgment and
netments like tho act submitting lo the
peoplp th qiipillcm of the proposed con
stitutional amendments would most
likely have had provisions cprrssly re
lating thereto.
"A statute is to be construed with refer
ence to lt mvnifest obWt and If the
language Is eiineoptiWo of two construc
tions one of which will carry out and the
other will defeat such manifest object, It
ohoiiM receive tho former construction"
In re national guard, 71 Vt, 4(0, IS Atl. VCI.
Kx Purto Cohen, KM Cnl 621, K Am, St.
Ttep. 127
If the purfKiso of the Legislature woi
to place the matter of such voting before
the town meeting as such it was a very
easy matter to sav so in apt language
and to get the expression of those who
ionic! legally vote in such meetings, with
out mnklng the legulntlnns for con
ducting general elections, applicable to
tiro votes provided for. The view hpre
expressed is slronsly homo out by the
provision in each act hat "A special
box shall be piovlded 'or the rcc-ptlon
of bnllul.'i provided for In tills act, which
shall bo opened at the hour tho meeting
Is called and shall remain open until the
close of the meeting not cat Her than
tin or o'clock In tho afternoon. it is
significant in the Famo dlrertlon Hint no
officer of the town meeting has authority
to declare tho results of the votes so
given, It being made the duty of the re.
spectlve town clerks to rewirt to the
secretary of slate the result "f the votes
nnd the latter shall issue his proclama
tion ceitlfylng the result, not tho result
In nnv town or towns, but In tho whole
Htate
From tho above considerations It la
manifest that tho questions of theao ref
erendiimH were not placed Iwforo the
town ineuting an such but for conven
ience, and perhaps for economy, They
were placed before the peopln at that
time and place not ns a town meeting
wherein only thosn who paid their laxes
I 'nil ore of n New It 1 1 1 .lust Intro
duced in Congress.
Washington. Slarch 1 Promotion
naval officers by selection Instead o!
by seniority, an Increase of r per cent
In officers of all guides, creation of a
war reserve llsr and restoration of the
popular old rank of commodore are pro
posed In a lit drafted by the navy per
sonnei non til nun ttansnuttP'i to i nn
gross to-dnv by Secretary P.itilcls The
measure, Hie reult of two e,us of
study and work bv the hoard, Is rte
signed lo Increase the efficiencv of the
service, put able men In commanding
positions at an earlier age and open I he
way for the rise of subordinate officers
now virtually barren from hope of pro
motion.
Under the plan, all officer above the
rank of lieutenant would bp subject to
promotion by selection on passage of the
bill, tho selections being made from each
grado by officers of tho ranks above,
Tho board reported that after careful
consideration it was convinced the system
of promotion by seniority must bo
abandoned,
HOLD PREPAREDNESS
LUNCHEON AT RUTLAND
lluslnrss Slcn Adrtreimeil by Artjt.-Cirn
Tlinrtsuii nnd Colonel Itievrs.
Itutlnnd, March 1 About 1 Rutland
business men gathered at a "prepared
ness" luncheon at the Hote', Ilardwell
hrie to-day which was addirs'-ed by
Adjt.-Orn. Leo S. Tlllolson ot Si Albans
and Cnl. Ira L. Peeves of Xotthlleld
The head of the erninnt National
Guard gave a brief history of the mllltla
and explained its status with thu federal
government. He said that none iitood
better than the Vermont National Guuid
He urged employers to urgo young men
to enlist. It Is the duty of everv young
man to serve nt least one lerni In th
State militia and It Is an employer'
duty not to hi come "miffed" at th0 time
off from dimes which such servir
necessitates, be said. Colonel Uppvpsi
sold that no man was too good to serve
In the mllltla. e require as go,i mp
to defend our country ns we do our
homes,
New York. Mirch 1. John Grant
Lyman, who was arrested several days
ago at St. Petersburg. I't.i., where bo tied
from this city February S after the dl
roverv or nn alleged oil stock awindlo
said to have netted turn more than Sli'ni,
O'jt, was returned bete to-iught In the
custody of government agents. Deput
1'. S. Marshal W. U. Vlnzntit of Florida
who accompanied the party, declared
Lvman cnntldeil in him on tho way hero
th.it he could have operated six weeks
longer as ".John 1 1. Putnam & Co." ha
would have "cleaned up a million dol
lara." Lyman, who It is belie vid was
about to leave for Snanlsb Hondura,"" on
a motor boat when hp was apprehended,
boasted that persons throughout tho
count i who sent their money to l.lm for
Investment wore above the avcrace In
Iriti'lliqenco and that 'It wa a plea"jro
to him to know that he got the best of
them" according to Vlnzimt.
Ljmaii was locked up In the Tombs.
Ho will he arraigned to-mori-ow In fed
eral court on an indictment chargi:, ille
gal use of the mails. His wife accompan
ied him here fiom Philadelphia, where
she went earlier In the rtsv. She wai
permitted to sit with him during the two
hour journey.
Lyman is quoted as stating that his dis
appearance from New York was not due
to postofllce Inspectors' Investigation of
Putnam Co., 'hut to the fact that Cor
ham Tufts of Los Angles, who was on
hla bond of JW.'A") when be fled from the
California city two vears aco after being
convicted thero In a land fraud, was on
his track, and secret service men wer
trailing a chuffour formerly In his em
ploy In the hope ot learning his where
abouts. Postofflco Inspectors who went to
Florida to get the fugitive say he pro
tested to them that Putnam & '"o was
"solvent" and that he would nrikr a
tight to oust the receiver. He also toll
iuuI friends In Saxtons r,ier and Grafton.
Miss niizabeth Stokes returned to P.ut-
l.md Tuesday after a few days' islt with
her mother. Airs. Ldw.irii Sioki-s. F; .ink
Vatter ot Salisbury, a former resident
of Midellebury, Is staying in town for n
few days. Henry Pigeon has gone to
Uristol, Conn., where be has taken oin-
onipauv has boon re-opened after ha -1 ployment cm a year's contract. rjeujamin
ing been shut down for about a year and , Lanieie lias gone to Ludlow to spend a
half, and them ar or will b soon j low d.i s at the home of ins parent. Mr.
about to hands at work there The mill i and Als. Joseph Lunere. Harry I Hunt,
n. ii.i.iiai ...i.i. v u.w... .i.,n... lli retli-in?- niMnni r ,.f thp ltorrl ,r
'""''' "iie.il H..S "-'li .-""I - - i . ., . ...!,
for several months, will also be started i selectmen, will be a laucllilate for re-clec-1 ". . "
up within .1 few das and will he run limn at tho mining March meeting.
to Its full capacity. Mr and Ml- Krv- The winter stock snow to he Held at me
Ing Perkins of Miln sreet are paients , I" S. Morgan horse farm Friday. March
fa daughter, horn l'rld.iv Mr and promises to be larger than ever beforo
Mr Josetih Forest have returned from I u'ls year. -Many entries nave been re
Proctor, where they have hren on a visit I ceiveil anil the fact that there will be onlv
to their daughte-. Mrs. Walter Small. "n" day instead of two this year, with
Thcv were accompanied by their grand-! George M. Ilommell. chief of the bureau
son. Raymond Small, who has been here I "f animal indiistrv, G. Arthur Hell, cattle
to visit hi- g-andparents fm two weeks. "Xpert, ! . It. Marshall, sheep expert,
Harry M Limson, poultry expert front
tho V. S. bureau of animal Industry, and
tho fiec lunch, will attract large num
bers. Joseph A. Peck ha reslgncl xs
one of the rei el erf of the Green Moun
tain Lime companv. to take effect as
soon after March 1 ns his successor can
bo appointed to servo with Allan Cal
an honest broker, ' be was cleaned out o'
a fortune of $300,f- Tie then became a
sort of get-rlch-qulck operator " The
said he boasted of having reaped a "so't
graft" 1a?t enr promoting prcmWin bondj
In Switzerland.
ACCUSED OF CHEATING
AGED GRANDMOTHER
Miss Huth Wright, who wn.s brought
here a week ago from l'.ui llngton, where
she had been ver 111 for foul weeks
with pneumonia, is gradually impiovlng
it the home of her niothpr. Mr. Fllen
Wnghl.- .lohn Glancv and William M.
Wrli In have lPturiPd from Fnvstoti,
where thev have been emo'ovcel for two
week-, and have secured positions with ! ",e ou'P1' 'eceiveu-. l lie no-mcss
foiinei' einnloverArthne i.Mt , i , let- 1 lll not be- interrupted. Th companv
moved the first part of this week to
the William P. Nash farm on the Nw
Haven liver, which he recent! v 'eased
for a lerm of vears. provided that the
roads arp In tit ihape for teaming Miss
I liken both Stokes of Itutlnnd vime Friday
n'gbt and went from here to Slioi.-hani
to sjnit'd a fpt days with her mother.
Mis Anna Stokes Mtt' .lohn H. Sargent
of the Mlddlebuiy Inn. who has beiui 111
for two wppKs with an at lad; of tho
crip, Is now much Improves, hut nol en
tirely recovered. --Mr and Mrs. George G.
rahnin of Snniervllle. Mnsj- . ai-p visit
ing in town for two woolen,- rvodey Smith
suffered a spver shock Frldnv and Is
practlcM. helpless Georgi .Vlircomb,
who has hon tho dollvervmnn at the
Henfield grocers' store for a year, has
Severn,! his eonneetlon there and will
move this week to tho Prof. Arthur W
Eddy fiirni, just south of this village.
The postponed annual meeting and
banquet of the Congregational Church
wns held In tho church vestry Thuisday
evening with a large attendance. The
has recently added nn agricultural I'me
plant which Is also crowdeil wllh unlets
Mr. PppI; will become sales manager of
tho Houblcln Gniage company in Hart,
ford, Conn., leaving hei e Sundui . Mr
and Mrs. F W. MrCnrthv of Hrookb n.
N. Y., aie visiting at the home of Mr and
Mrs Saundeis. Airs Mi-Carthv is a
daughter of Mr. Saunders. Grand War
elr.il IMunrds of lturllngton visited Lake
Tiunmote Lodge, No 11. I n o lr. , Wcd-
pesdav evening and during tho evening
gave a talk Tlie Initiatory degree was
conferred on one candidate At the close
of tho meeting a flno banquet was served
In their banquet hull Wright Caswell
left Wednesday morning nn a tilp to
lloston. Springfield, and New York cltv
Ho will bo gone about a week P. S
Fenlon has gone to Manchester where be
will visit friends for the rest of the
wpek.-i:. L. Huestis has returned from
a few days' visit In different parts of New
York Stato.-iMrs. F N- Holmes enter
tnlned her Sunilav school class In the
parlor? of the Memorial Haptlst Church
Tuesday evening. At six o clock a sin
supper was served by the ladles of tlin I ft.TVPA It. Ilobbs and dnugh
n a r a.nn .1... Til, .Infllnil tf nfCI,',,, I '
congregation. The election of officers
followed, the same officers Hint served
last year being re-clei'ted, except C. F.
Abbott, who was chosen superintend
ent of the Itlble school In place of
Judge John V.. Weeks, who had served
for several years and declined re-election.
Itepurls were niiiile as follows
tor tho society by A. W. IMckens. for
tho church by Clerk Fdward .1. Math
ews and Treasurer Thomas L". Payee,
for the Hlble school P.. G. Aleirltt. for
the Women's association, tho liharcc
society nnd the Christian Lndeavor
society by Allfs Lillian .Myors. J. K.
Crane Naomi II. Price. C II. Wright,
C. Abbott. L. A Moorhousp spoki..
lor havo returned from a m ilnvs' visit
In Fllcnbiirg. N. V -Mr. Gallagher has
gono to Piirlliigtein to spend a few days
- The Ladles' .Missionary socl.dy of tlie
Momoilal Haptlst church held a well nt
tended meeting in the church parlor.'
Wednesday evening -Mrs lll.am I'uote
has returned from West P.iitlainl. where
she has been on a isit to friends for a
few tluss Thomas Moore of Huston Is
In town for n few rtavs" visit to his par
ents, Air and Alls M. K. Aloorc Clar-
ence F. Tavlor of Seymour street, who
has been 111 for a week, Is reported ns
bettor. The farmers of Salisbury met
at the hume of Frank NpIsou Tuesday
evening. County Agent Carrlgan gnvo a
chnloo In icgard to thhi not, etc. (Si o lie.fote a (ipccllled date hnel n light to vote
Hta'e 's Pnr'.er, '! V' . S." i lly the. but hi etfect as a special meeting of tho
net of I'D." to rri'Mutc Ihc truffle In freemen, in whbli nil those who ,uo cu
'r tiixle ,-i'li'g ' uuor II wns piovlihd (se .
tlon 101) tho o((iccrs ot over' luwn or iC'uiillnucd on pnijc four).
PAW TWO PKHSIDF.NTS SHOT.
Hover. N !! Mirrh t. -Fveiett n
Foss. n'e foimetly n lu w snapen pnii
llihei' of thl" 'I'V "I"' 'bilmcrt Hi,, ,11s
tliictlon or 1,rl,li; l,'p "llly ,ni1" tn witness
tho iissiistllintinil of two prcsldnits, died
to. day lie wn at Ford's theiitip when
Lincidn was hoi anil also was present
nt the Blwotltu; of Uuiilclil.
Tlie luneral of Alin. Patrick i onilor, )1))k ?f.t (lennmstrallon Work
was holrt nt St- Alary's Catholic Churolif mi; m1i ,lr, Handling of Alfalfa
Monday moinlng nl nlno o'clock. Father rn1(, fanneit) decided to organize the Sal-
T. .1. Leou.iiil olflclated and Intcnneiu , Him,.y Kanncrs' club, nnd elected Fran!
wns In the Catholic cemetery. -Mrs, Con- ixvison temporary president, and William
don had been In 111 health for some thno Hump temporary secrelnry and treasurer.
at her home on Court stteet with a com- Tito next meeting, when they will organ
plication of diseases anl tho end came z permanently, w 111 be held at the home
early Sat utility morning, at the age or of ft. W. Leland on the evening of March
74 years She Is survived by n husbaiiil. n, Thorei will be a mpetiug of farmers
oiui daughter, MJK. Thomas llurke, wltli'd,,,) their wives In tho schoolhouso of
whom si made her home, and tvvoiu, Fpuh ellstrlct in AIIddloburv tho eve
biothcis .lohn and .lames Condon ot ping Alnrch I. A. W. Kddy and County
Sborcham The beniers weie James Agent Carilg.in will give, short talks
ilinct'M W'lhani McN'ullv ndwain.AIr l-Mdy will discuss "Home Allxlng
H,Klro, Isae- l.avi'tiche. Sr William
llalnoil aii'l Louis Goulelto. Joseph
Forest and daughter, .UUs Miu-gaivt For
tat, huvo tettu-nuil from Itoctor, whoro
I'orllllzers" and Mr Cnrrlgac will ells
csiss "Uilry l'eedlng."-Mts.s Slclln Tur
(Ciiiilluliril mi Pngc tvfo.)
WnllliiEforel Vonth rrrstoil on ( hnrg
of I'oiir-Vonr-Olel I'eirgerj.
Rutland. March 1 Anson H Harring
ton of South Walllngford, a farmer, was
arrested to-day bv Depulv She Iff Allen
A. Leonard of Walllngford and was
placed under bail on a chaige of forgery
committed four years ago bv wlrti b lie
cheated his grandmother, Mrs. Dlnme-
tha Hotrlngton of Oanby, who is an octo
genarian, out of SHiH Tho case is a pecu
liar one, the alleged crime being discov
ered after tho long lapse of time hecntise
the Rutland Trust rnmp,m tecent v
called In Hs deposit hooks for iheckh'3
up accounts.
It is alleged that nn Fohruarv s '115,
Mrs Harrington gave her grand "ti KT7
In cash to deposit for her with the Rut
land Trust company. He riopoyi'eel J-7
with the companv designated In the name
of Mrs Harrington and placed Rill to h i
credit 111 the Kllllrigton National bank.
which does tuisne". in the same qnar
tets as the trust e-ompanv.
On returning lo Panhv 1m ga e h1
grandmother a Rutland Trust ronrpani'
!ook which showed JV7 deposited to her
credit. The "V In this entry Is In differ
ent colored ink and In a different band,
writing than the ","." and the "7 " Ml this
was diwnvereil by tho directors of tin
trust company a short time ago whei
the books were being checked. The mat
ter has been under investigation '' Mr.
1'oulln for a few days.
RAY COLLINS TO COACH.
llelltviK Free cndcni.T nniiiincr
llRschnll Schedule of I.', lieiines.
Fail fax. March l The b.i e'u'l
schclule of Hollows Free ,( a ler. ,1
announced ns follows
St Albans IiIkIi sdion', Apt 'I ' Ksses
Junction high school. 'i, linos'. i Fa' t
high school. .May 15. Johnson hlsh schoo ,
Swanton high school, 1. Hrlgh.in
Academy, SI: flurlington hich si ho, 1,
June 1; Milton high school, . Games
away, St. Albnns nt St Albans, Max ;
Swnntou at Svv anion, !. ISurllnBlon it
HurliiiKton. 12, i:ssex Junction at Fssex
Junction. f3, Johnson at Johnson, -.;
Ktioshiug Falls at Hnoshurg Falls, June
3. HrlKhiini Ai'adcmy at HakersHeld, H
Tho school secuicd Pay W. Collins for
coach this season.
OCTOGENARIANS DIE.
Mr. mill Mr. .Iniint hnn I', lhnerson
sui'i'iliiili In I'lieiiiiioiila.
Prlstol. AInrcb 1 - Fnlted in 'ltc, Mi'
and Mrs Jonathan C Hiueron are no
nulled III dentil Mr Fdvv.ril ,i . c I
about si oars. died last evening i' m
home on Uristol Hal, and litis morn -
All' Fmerson, ageil about K years, dlcu.
Doth sutcumhed to pneumonia.
