I
Mess
ENGKR
Democratic in Pnucipie, But Independent in Thought and Action.
Devoted to Honesty, Truth and Good Government.
..-. ' ;. ..
- -
V
VOL. 44.
Miss McDonnell Entertains in
.. Honor of Mis? Huggins
OKOLONA. MISSISSIPPI. THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1916
Water and Lights,
r IW1 III
amml'mmmmmm mmmmmmm Baaaaaaaaai mmh aaBBBBaaaaBi mu mm m mm bsbbbi bbi aaa v
jk,-nl.iL .w w .
i fT! " j . ir" 1 ' ' A
mmmmm mm
M m W'M
Miss Elizabeth McDonnell en
tertained a number of her friends
on Friday evening, February
25th, in honor of Miss Bessie
Huggins, of Jasper, Tenn.
' The guests arrived at the ap
pointed hour and were greeted
at the door by the genial, smil-
ing hostess. The ladies were
shown '. to the cloak room by
little Miss Marion Donaldson
Lyles, the charming daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Lyle.
Several games of Progressive
"Rook were enjoyed after which
a delightful, salad course was
served by Miss . McBeath and
little Miss Lyles. .
At a late hour, the guests took
their departure declaring this a
most enjoyable occasion and
Miss McDonnell an ideal hostess.
, Those present were : Miss
Huggins and Allen Dean, Miss
Cora Berry and Archie McDon
nell, Miss Wilhelmenia Deaven-
port and Kyle Lyons, Miss
' Blanche Edens and Clifford
Chandler,' Miss Omera McBeath
and J. S. McDonnell, Miss Clyde
Bell and ,Tom Woodfin, Miss
Frances Chandler', and Paul
Berry, Miss Margaret Smith and
Jack Sansom, Miss Mary La
"Grone and Albert Gunn, Miss
Berdie Williams and Adam
Gates, Miss Charline . LaGrone
and Dale Henson, Fred v Mc
Donnell, Jr., and Clarence Cun
ningham. :
. -
riding of Mcch Interest to
... , Okolona, Miss., February 25, 1916.
r it " - '
reiiow Vilizens:-
In attempting to increase the revenue of the City made necessary Ly
bond issue to put in sewerage, good roads etc. by increasing the rate on
watir ahd lights, to my mind, is a mistake and altogether opposed to the
whole scheme of taxation). Public utilities are intended to be operated for
the equal service of all the people at a minimum cost. ,Note the Post Office
department. This department is actually run at a loss each year in an effort
to melee the expenses as light as possible on the people. They have been so
painstaking in this matter in order that it can be put on as low operating
basis as possible that a deficit occurs each year. These institutions come
along in the same category as the Public Schools. They partake more of the
nature of philanthropy than a revenue gettiug scheme.
When the city found it had to increase its revenue to meet increased
expenses, the proper method would have been an ad valorem tax. But the
f . .L. . 1 ! .l. . i i . i i' '
ixi iiiBi wilier arm ngrit were meierea. aoes not inerease me sum ot revenue.
While this was evidently intended, it fails to serve the purpose. The JSiIy
thing it does do, as now operated, is to shift the load of taxation from ,th
. ..it i . ' .L- m . i i : .' i "
wcn-io-uo man 10 ine poor man. )oi oniv aoes it put the actual increase in
taxes on the poor man but it makes him pay for the, meters arid installation
and up keep, which-will run up into the thousands of dollars. As an illuira
tion, let us look at some figures. - Take for a basis of calculation 30P water
melers put in already. ,It is safe to assume that 60 per cent of these are
one-faucet or moderate-meanes families, 20 per cent two-faucet or moderate
means families, and 20 per cent 5- to 10-faucet or well-to-do families. We
all know that the one-faucet family's rate is doubled, that the two faucet
family's rate is the sane, and I have been told by people with as many as
eight faucets that the rate was just half what it was under the old order. -:
Now, in making the tabulation to follow 1 am giving the advantage to the
opposition, because you will readily see, after going over them, that to decrease
the one-fancet man and increase the 5- to 10-faucet man puts them in the
hole worse than ever; every time you lose $6.00 under the old order, by the
change you gain $45.00: under the new order every time you lose J 12.00
you gain $24.00.
Old Order: , . mo. . yr. Total
180 1-Faucet "moderate-means, families".... $ .50 $ 6.00 $108000
60 2-Fucet " , " " . l.oo 1200 7?n m
60 5- tf 10-Fpucet well-to-do families. a$
A fashionable wedding will be
. solemnized at tke opera Bouse
Friday night, March 10th.
The bride, Dr. J. A. Rutledge,
will enter on the arm of her
father, Judge Lacey. who will
give her in marriage. The bride
has chosen as her maid of honor
Harry Fish, matron Tom Dean,
" '. bripe's maids Walton Murfee
and Jim Stanford, jflower girls
Clarence Parchman and Howard
Murphree, ring barer Master
Lunce Hodges.
u The groom, Mr. Charlie La
Grone, will be attended by Mr,
Fred McDonnell best man, Mr.
J. S. Rowe and Dr. W. A. Iwe.
groomsmen. Messrs Jesse Daw
son and L. S. Brewster will
-serve as ushers. The impressive
ring ceremony wm ue &aiu uj
.'. by the Rev. J. J. Riley.
Preceeding the ceremony Mr.
Joe Nix will sing O Promise Me
in his charming con tralo ' voice
and Mr. Charlie Howell will
charmingly ' render I Love You
Truly. Lohengrins bridal chorus
will be sung by a vested choir
! consisting of Messrs Ellis, Aber
nethy, Henson and Fitzgerald.
Immediately, after the cere
mony the bride's mother, R. W.
Chandler, will give a reception
at the Okolona Carnegie Library,
where the many friends of the
happy couple may view the
large collection" of presents and
- cut the wedding cake.
Natable out of town guests
. will be the bride's aunt, - Portor
Davis, from Kalamazoo, with
her charming ' twin daughters.
CASTOR jA
For Infanta and Childr'ea
InOs3For0r3OYc2rs
180 I Faucet ntkderaf'etmeat.
60 2-Faucet ' '
90 5- to 10-Faucet well-to-do families av 7i-faucets
HZ .45.01: 270000
1.00 12.00 720.00
2.00 24.001440OO
"- $4320.00
The 5- to 10-faucet people pay by the thousand gallons, the others do not.
The lotal is less under the new order than the old. But note how the
ratio changes from the weil-lo-do man to the moderate-means man his taxes
are increased $108000 and the well-to-do man's decreased $1260.00. This
calculation is based only on 300 water meters; the city expects to put in
several hundred more water meters and as many light meters. In other
words, about 900 to 1000 meters, so you can see the amount will be increased
about three times. - - - - ;
Under the minimum rate a man is allowed to use about 3300 gallors of
water. The 1- and 2-faucet people never use that much, they use from 500
. 9nm nllnna as a rule. 1 bey never use the amount allowed and yon t
when connected with sewerage. To put it in another light, the modirat
mMB4 man nays from 50 cents to $2.00 per thousand gallons for his vater
while the well to do man Bays "30 cents or less for his. t
Y As has been atated, the very genius of taxaUon is to levy and cjlecl
or-nrrlinti in the wealth of the community or nation. . Thafs whj we
have a national income tax," because wealth can afford to be taxed and lipiie
....,, .nnn Nnw whi e the dilierence in revenue is not great, so tr as
the sum is concerned, the shifting of the load is where class legislation dmes
. T . I I
:.. I o.l DlnV.m i everv man Davs according to his possessions and
Ills 111 OH MM v..--. -- - - I
there is no way to slip up on the blind side. - . . I
- As for the meters themselves although they will cost the peopleway
in the thousands might as welldump them all inSVlalubba creeK a tor
the good they do as now operated. Take the one-Faucet people. 1 hey fcver
..nk utr in firfur. it on the thousand callon basis, its just a. illar
IISC C11UUKM v-
ner jnonth proposition straight. Why not make the rate a dollar per
flat, and take the meter and put it in the well? The result would bith
em The onlu difference being that it would be a little cheaper, as itbsts
. .L: nn.L.n nr) rpndind each-month. And as to the metrt for
SUHIGllllMtt iyi "'"l' --. I
.l! ....It J ..n ;r,.i.rt nf heintf an asset for the citv it is a liabilii
tnc wciriu-uv umn, ....... - -
just helps him make h.s escape. , .. .
The result of the whole -tiieter proposition as now operated wi
aboutthia: Cost of 900 metera, nine dollars apiece amounts to $81.00,
A JJ-J it,:. ;. .in.Iceen. which will be considerable. , Now the tax-ters
nUUU iw w rw ------ 1
ku ant 1a niv this in addition to the bond issues, interest etc. Aa iwn
l.: t - Rn ni of the 450 families ! who use the meters o860
Ujf vv " i
will pay $9720.00 and 20 per cent or 00 well-to-do families wibay
$2700.00. This amounts to something like three to four thousand oars
increase per year on water and lights that the limited-meana man wijlpve
to pay. : J' -. ... , " , -
Now, fellow citizens, would you put a man a load on a boy a ahofera
and th boy'a load oa the man a shoulders I he idea ot taxation is l)ut
the boy'a load where it belongs amd the man's load where it belongs.
There will be held in your city on March the 21st, an election tiee
the city government will be changed to commission ,lorm or mm
If the commission form carries I shall be a candidate for tor-
m . 1. , W
alor
nth
e
Always bean
the
Signature
" For Sale Cheap-Horse and
I : ry. Apply to Jr.o. T. Turner
atV.'Uhita & Turner- "plumbing
whether
a it is.
Commissioner. - If it remains the same, I am, as you known a candid
Mayor. . If yoil see fit to elect me in either case. I shall do all in my er
frt mil water and lichfs on a iust and equitable basis, as well as put lotny
best effort to the betterment of everything ecconoraic or otherwise. -;
' . - . - Very respectfully.
. J 1 R. L FITZGERALD.
NOTE I understand that J. S. W. Hawkins and R. W. Cbandlenre
not !n favor of meters as now operated. adv.
PERA IIOUS
4berdeon, Miss.
r
n
k,000 People in Action.
5,000 Horses.
Battleships.
(7 -Aeroplanes 17
4 Submarines -14
Cost $500,000.00.
few York Captured by .
Foreign Foe,
Sapendous in Conception.
B
P
SEE
The
attle
Cry
of
eace
OPERA HOUSE
Aberdeen, Miss.
Stirring Plea for Peace, f
Moulding the Soul of a
a Nation.
World's Mightiest Moving
Picture.
Two Shows Only 2:30
and 8:15.
All Seats Reserved.
Seats on Sale
Thursday, March the 2nd.
11 Seats on Lower Floor 50c; Children 25c
Don't Miss This One. Engage Your Seats Early.
onday, March 6 (ONE DAY ONLY) Monday, March 6
Iberdeen, flpPBi ffflffP Aberdeen,
X JLJKJkJ ill XXJT
We take out the grease, dirt and shine
and return them looking like new ones
LADIES' WORK A SPECIALTY
jjaaraaa
aeioica
Re dHce ttiGliili CoGt of Living
ary aUMut'r
A
a
FOR
O
U
n
;A7ALOGf
Pfir
o
u
TATA ff
J W. E. BEAR DEN; DRUGGIST
CALL'TODAYAND investigate how ydu can procure beautiful and useful
ARTICLES BY REDEEMING OUR COUPONS AND CERTIFICATES ISSUED WITH
EVERY CASH PURCHASE. OR ON ACCOUNTS TO BE PAID BY 5THOF MONTH.
NOTICE OF ELECTION .
Nolica is - hereby given that an
election will be held in the City of
Olcolona. at the usual voting place, on
rues"day, the 21st day ' of March,
916, to determine the question, Shall
the City pi Okolona adopt the Com
mission form of Government, . as pro
vided for in Chapter 120. Page 107
of the Laws of Mississippi of 1912. '
Witness my hand this Feb, 23. 1916.
" - L L MORRISON,-
. i ' Mayor.
a
Rl !Rf! EDM" fTrS
. n ; wwa-- mm a til 4
:
O.T.ce over Tii st National bank. Okolona. Mississippi. Telephone 35
First Stats Billiard Tables.
" Elate - billiard tables wer ' first
played on In Great Britain In 1827.
Curst V.i Sores, Cthet Won't Curs.
The worst cw, no mui;t t o. hun !on tndinj,
pre cured br Ih if.l, oH reliable ti.
Porter' Antiseptic i' '- '4 C!1. It reHer't
Fia and Ue&ls w; the
Wtalth.
TVaalta may seak tas, but
mtiit ba sought Tour
Invl)ratlfi2 to tho Pals and !cLfjr.
ITie O'l "n1-"1 r"rt eti!"- toole,
OHOVK a 't K li - Scfnll T 'C. isfiweoat
r.f iir.t. 25c.K.p.OO lew. A but tunic, tot tuum au j ckuvucav ivt
