i\JLI 'I 1 f 1 1 f' I \A/ E ' LL r '*bt back at you on Monday with the opening of the third in the novel-a-week series. Now that you
I yfyf XjL Ji jT UK A 1 * have developed the novel-a-week habit, you won't want to miss "The Ranch at the Wolverine," by B. M. Bower,
, , , - , * next week. It is a gripping novel of range life in northern Idaho. If you purchased the novel you are reading thia
WCt ' C nove we wi give you next week, it would cost you three dollars at the book store for the two books. And you get them for the price of a rubscription.
Griffiths Accepts Challenge to Meet Hi Gill
in Debate Any Time or Place This Week
MDDITfSSM
THREATENS HEU
TttMll GILL
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY IN
SEATTLE MAYORALTY CAMPAIGN
(jGriffith* accept* Gill's challenge to public debate
Says he will him " iny where and anytime." n'»'
later than Saturday night
(J "Ted" Griffiths interrupt* Gill's speech at < Irecn
Lake to warn him to "-top lying about father and
mother or I'll thrash you."
Ole Hansen, taking the «tump for Griffiths, speak*
at two meetings. Says: "For two years we've had Hi
Gill hobbled J By nature he's a pacer, going from side
to side Last Saturday, at the Liberty theatre, he
got loose from his toe-weights. The Gill that talked
from the staee at the Liberty theatre last Saturday was
the real Gill. Are you sjoing to let go, unrebuked.
that attack u; 11 d<-cncy and the home ? Are you
going to reward with the highest office in the city's
gift a man who attacks a good woman with the vomit
of his fi hhy. lecherous mind?"
d United State* l)i>tri>t \ttornev Clay Mien and
Prosecuting Attorney A H Lundin charge Gill's police
department ha« not co-operated with them in the prose
cution of vice cases.
A stocky, light-haired boy in a tan flannel shirt made hi*
way thru the crowd that jammed the entrance to Odd
Fellows' hall at Green I-akc. Wednesday night
Hi (»ill, candidate for mayor, was scheduled to «[»eak
ther& at H o'clock
The boy took a seat in the «econd row.
The crowd cheered and applauded when the mayor st«-y»
ped on the platform.
"Green Lake's friend," he was called hy the chairman.
** Th« audience was friendly.
The peuplcJatipheff KM applauded as GITI lashfHri* ri'.al
tandidate lor the mayoralty.
The boy in the second row shifted uneasily, and leaned
forward.
The mayor was telling about Griffiths' record, and his
own. in connection with playgrounds. He vigorously denied
that he was responsible for the placing of a stable near the
Miller playficld. He »aid Griffiths had objected to this stable
t>nly because it would be too close to s"me of his own;
property.
Gill Orders Boy to Sit Down
The boy in the second row jumped to hi* feet
"That's not true —it's another lie," the hoy «houted, chok
ing with emotion. "I've taken in your garbled words. You
haven't been telling the farts."
"Sit down!" snapped the mayor.
Some members of the crowd repeated Gill's command.
Others applauded.
The boy was Austin E. Griffiths, Jr.. 20 vears old, fresh
man at the university. "Ted," his friends call him.
"I won't sit down if you tell any more lies about fathci
nnd mother," the boy said "I'll thrash you."
I Then he took hts seat, a little confused.
| The mayor found his tongue and proceeded.
Lr Hut the dramatic interruption snapped the tension of
the meeting.
After the clo*e of the meeting, the lad edged his way uj
to the circle of newspapermen.
"You won't say anything about what happened here,
will you?" he asked. "I lost my head. But, you understand,
don't you? He has been telling lies about dad and mother.
I wish you wouldn't say anything about it when you write
up the meeting."
Says He Has Star Editor on Verge of Pen
In hi' «{>eech, the mayor said he wanted to give the city
another business administration.
He said he had "put the editor of The Star on the verge
of the penitentiary on this Felix Crane business" and said.
"I'll show this sport up as the hypocrite, demagogue and liar
that he is."
He charged Griffiths with lying about his tax levy votes
while in the council, took credit for the system of fre<-
garbage collection, and said that Griffiths wasn't "such a
.stem winder of a chief as I thought he was when I ap
pointed him."
After the Green Lake meeting, Mayor Gill was scheduled
to speak at the University branch library.
Griffiths Says, 'Ravings of Political Maniac'
He referred there to the threat from young Griffith* at the
Green Lake meeting
"One of Griffiths' sons, who is supposed to be an athlete,
ram; over with a lot of roughnecks ami tried to break up my
meeting at »>rcen Lake," said the mayor in his speech.
A few minutes later, Austin E. Griffiths and another
son, Burke, entered the room and heard the last of the Gill
talk.
Gill left after hurling a ••erics of questions at (.riffiths
Griffiths answered.
"It's unpleasant to have to read the ravings of a political
maniac," he --aid, "let alone hear them. Gill DID disrni
some rat catchers, as he claims. They had helped recall
him two years before. But Gill has no conception of what
j_ r jght—what is modern—of the new civic .spirit."
I S. AND COUNTY PROSECUTORS
SAY POLICE WON'T CO-OPERATE
| The present rlty police administration ha* failed to extend a
proper plrit of co-operation with either government official In the
hitidllriK of white slave rase*, or with the proaecutlng attorney* off Ice.
nils is the charge made today by r. H l>l*trlct Attorney Clay Allen
and I'rosef utlng Att'irney Alfred 11. I*undln.
There ia no practical way of enforcing the law* relative to vlec
• • • • •
(Continued on page S)
The Seattle Star
THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS :
VOLUME IS SI:A 1"! I I:. W ASH., I I lUKM )AV, MAHGH 2, I"l 6.
GILL SOBS ABOUT POVERTY; HERE'S HIS HOME!
TN HIS speed***, Mayor GUI has been telling audiences that 'Griffiths 'is a millionaire."
By these false statements. Gill is trying to win sympathy. He is trying to make his audiences think he's
a poor, penniless, hard-struggling fellow who is having the time of his life to pay his rent and grocery bill
Above is a picture of Gill's residence. It is not the home of a "millionaire." But it is a much more pre
tentious home than Griffiths has.
The Star does not publish this picture because it thinks Hi Gill U unfit to be mayor because he has a fine
home and Griffiths hasn't. The picture is published merely to show the caliber of the msn who tries to make
such a thing an issue.
ACCEPTS
DEFI TO
DEBATE
* ♦
MEETINGS TONIGHT
GRIFFITHS — Thorne* hall.
Green Lake. 8 p. m.; Young
Men'* Butlne** club, at the
exchange. Second and Union,
6:30 p. m.; Bricklayers'
union. 1905 Fifth ave., 9 p. m.
GILL —Ward's hall. George
town.
OTTO A. CASE —Phalen'a hall,
Columbia.
In a atatement at Thome's hall.
Green Lake. Mavor 0111 Wednesday
night challenged his rival. Austin
E. Griffiths, to debate.
Thursday morning. Griffiths
promptly accepted th* challenge to
debate (',lll at any time between
now and Saturday night.
In hi* speech. Oltl specified
Dreamland rink for Monday night,
the night before election.
Griff.tha I* unwilling to debate
Monday night. at the last minute,
but wants to debate earlier, so that
all the papers enn ret an oppor
tunity to report It before the elec
tion, Instead of leaving It to lust
one morning l>aper. which la Olll'a
organ.
Griffiths' acceptance of Olll'a de
bat* challenge follows:
Under the epeclal circum
stance* of thle campaign I
ahould not appear on the same
platform with Mayor Gill, a
man who maligna men and
women.
In public matter* affecting
the whole city personal consid
eration* muat be set ailde.
I accept a challenge to *p*ak
with Mayor Gill, but according
to the recognized rulea of chiv
alry the man challenged to
fight a duel to the death has
the right to name time, place
and weapon*.
I will apeak anywhere, any
time, not later than Saturday
night.
The challenge to apeak at
Dreamland rink Monday night
la a frame up, made to play Into
the hand* of the only news
paper In Seattle whoie columna
are cloaed to me. Mayor Olll'a
own organ.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS
SOUGHT FOR MURDER
NAVtI'A, Idaho, March 2 l'onse*
of farmer* ar<» today pursuing
Krnest Hardnnburn, alleged to
have murdered the husband of hlit
former wife, nine mllea from hero.
HODGE'S MEN
RAID BATHS;
GET LIQUOR
Scott Malone led a party of
•heHff'e deputies who raided
the Imperial Turkish bathe, on
Fourth awe., between Plk« and
Union at*., for contraband
liquor Thuraday.
Eighty bottle* of beer were
confiscated. Eight hundred
empty bottles were found, ac
cording to the deputies.
The raid wai made on com
plaint of a special Investigator,
who purchased liquor In the
bath house Wednesday night.
It I* said, paying <100 for a
quart.
No arrest* were made, but
Prosecutor Lundln intend* to
bring action againtt the pro
prietor at once.
GUST HAS KICK NOW
AGAINST "DRY" LAW
I>eclarlng he is being Illegally re
strained from liberty because the
city ordinance against Helling liquor
la unconstitutional and In conflict
with the Mate law*. (Just Christ on
sen, serving 33 davs for having
liquor to sell at the Whltehouse
hotel, filed a petition for habeas
corpus In superior court Thursday.
GERMAN SEAPLANE
RAID KILLS BABY
LONDON. March 2 Hying low-
In a heavy mist, a Herman seaplane
a»t night raided the southeast coast
of England, dropped four explosive
bombs, mangled a baby so badly
that It died, and wrecked the rear
of aeytiral houses.
BABY IS BORN TO
A GIRL OF ELEVEN
SAN BERNARDINO, March
2.—A ifven pound baby wit
born today to Slmona Ahi la. a
child of 11. Burgeon* consider
the case a phenomenon. Sl
mona la four feet t«ll. She
weigh* 80 ponud*.
"WAR ON WASTE" IS
WOMEN'S SLOGAN
The housekeeper* of America
urn mobilizing for a war on
waste,: The lloimtkmiperi'
alliance. of Washington. It. ('..
with flora McDonald Thompson,
president, I* directing a rain
imlKti to help mother!) and
liouiu! inker* learn economy.
WHEN GILL BUTTED IN
ON HIS POLICE CHIEF
ON JVI,Y 20, 1914. the police, under the then chief of polfce,
Auitln E. Griffiths, made several arrests in a house of Ill
fame The raid waa conducted under a warrant.
WITHIN AN HOI'R, MAYOR OILL CAME INTO THE
CHIEF'S OFFICE, WHITE WITH RAGE. AND CI USING HE
DEMANDED THE DISMISSAL OF THE OFFICERS WHO MADE
THE ARRESTS.
Griffiths curtly told him to "shut up": that If any one went It
would be he (Griffiths), and not the men who acted under order*
and under a warrant. And Gill did shut up at that time.
Griffiths tells about this In a statement today on page 6.
This happened In .luly, 1914. and It was In July, 1914, that Grif
fiths flm tendered his resignation to Mayor QUI.
Now Gill la saying he knew nothing, and knows nothing now.
of the condition" "down there" that Griffiths had a free hand as
chief-thai Grlffltha must be the "hlgher-up" referred to In the
Felix Crane case
When Griffiths tendered his resignation, in July, Gill did not
accept It. Griffiths made no public outcry about Gill's interference,
but perhaps Gill wbs afraid he would.
He begged him to atay longer.
Griffith* finally consented, but Insisted that the resignation
must take effect In September, especially because he hnd to leave
for the East, where his father wa« on his deathbed.
Keep thl* In mind—a large portion of the vice case* in the
paat two years have been handled by GUl'* law partner* and inti
mate attociate*
"Friday" Frye, Gill's law partner, I* one. Frank Hammond is
another. Gill'* former law associate. Walter Metzenbaum, |* an
other.
The public did not know Griffith* wa* going to reiign, but
the*e men knew, «rd the new* wa* quickly ipread in the under
world.
FELIX CRANE KNEW, TOO.
AND FELIX CRANE DID NOT BEGIN TO OPERATE UNTIL
GRIFFITHS LEFT FOR THE EAST. AND DURING GRIFFITHS'
ABSENCE FROM THE CITY.
When Griffith* returned, Gill again Induced him to stay on
the job a little longer. He Htayed until November 7.
Felix Crane knew Griffiths would resign Some other graft
era off fallen women knew It They made their plana accordingly.
Crane was Indicted after Griffiths left. So was Paul Scliu
man, the ex-pollceman, and others.
Crane was convicted on two charges the first, that he grafted
from lallen women on December 2K. 1914. ALMOST TWO
MONTHS AIT Kit GRIFFITHS HESIGNED. The second charge
nuaitisl Crane alleged that he grafted on October 1. 1»14, or one
month before Griffiths resigned. AND THIIEK MONTHS AFTKII
IIE GAVE GIL.!, HIS I.ESIGNATION.
MANIAC STANDS DEPUTIES
OFF WITH GDN FOR TWO DATS
OREGON CITY. Ore., March
2. Raving about murdera of
the paat and future. William
Kllnkman, a powerful youno
farmer, 25 year* old, I* pacing
a padded cell In the county Jail
here today, after holding at bay
for two day* officer* who
sought to arrest him on an in
sanity warrant.
Artneil with u rifle and n revolver.
Kllnkman kept officers front enter
liik hln house hi, Ardenwald.
The deputy sheriffs feared to tine
violence In taking the youiis man.
ONE CENT
Retldenct of H. C. 0111, »2«
15th (v|,
♦ •
for hi* two sisters and mother were
In the house with him.
Caotured last night by a ruse,
Kllnkman mid be knew who tin*
committed the Kill murders in 1911,
only a quarter of a mile from hla
home.
Officer* today are Investigating
to learn If the young maniac could
have been responsible for the crime.
In June, 1911. William Hill, his
wife and two children were found
In the bedroom of their home nt
Ardenwald, brutally murdered with
an ax. Their murderer was never
captured.
«)X IKIINI ASt%
s til «• •* t « v r»« •«
SENATE ARGUES
WILSON'S STAND
ON ARMED SHIPS
Gore Demands Information
Regarding President's
Reported Willingness to
Plunge U. S. Into War.
WASHINGTON. March 2.—The conflict between con*
press and President Wilson over the German situation broke
out today in the senate, when Chairman Stone of the foreign
committee interrupted discussion of the Shields waterpowef
bill to make a statement about the Gore resolution warning
Americans from armed ships
Following St"nc, Sen. Lodge agreed that the question
should come t<• a v..te immediately, and that the president
needed the aid >>f all senators, 0 f party.
St"iic admitted he and president do not agree on the
»übje< to( armed shipv He stated the president's attitude
thus:
"The president te deposed
to support the contention thst
merchantmen have the right to
arm for defensive purpotes.
"What defense Is. he does
not say, and I do not know.
"If a submarine should at-
tack a merchantman and Amer
icans should suffer, he would
hold the offending govern
ment strictly to account, and
If Germany peralsted in Its
course, he would call the mat
ter to the attention of con-
gress, the war-making body.
"My viewpoint Is that If a mer
chantman Is armed and transi>ort-
Ins munitions, other contraband or
troops, it is a warship."
Demands He Be Backed
Stone dec'.ared it <*ssentlal that
the president should have a thoro
knowledge that congress Is behind
him If he Is to make a satisfactory
solution of problems with Germany
and Great Britain.
The senate did not act on the
armed ship Issue, after debate last
ing an hour ami 40 minutes
Sen John Sharp Williams de
fended the president in the Inter
national rlt'i.itlon and accused sen
ators of bringing the situation to
Its present pass
"President Wilson." he s'lid, "has
been brought to tills situation by
senator# wh i have represented
the pleas of foreign capitals
Rebukes the Senate
"I/et us see now whether sen
ators will stand against the presl
dent on a principle of International
law' five centuries old. The law- Is
plain. Yet Germany wishes to
change It, and make us a party to
the c rime, while for us to recog
nize Germany's claim would be un
neutral.
"And It was your actions that In
duced Germany to take her last
position."
Sen. Gore, proponent of the
warning resolution, took a hand in
the combat with a denunciation of
all American sympathizers with
the belligerents.
Blames Bondholders
"I believe," he said, "that the
holders of the half billion dollars'
worth of nllied bonds would like
to have us Insure their cause.
"Our whole welfare should not
be placed In the hands of any one
madcap American who might ship
011 in armed vessel."
Sen. Borah asked Gore If the
president would refuse to act In
event 100 Americana were killed,
provided the Gore measure had
gone Into effect.
Gore replied that passage of the
resolution would prevent just such
a slaughter by the refusal to grant
passports to Americans for em
barking on armed merchantmen.
Says Principle Is Same
lie Insisted that the principle Is
the same as the state department's
refusal to Issue passports to Amcr
leans to go to belligerent coun
tries.
Gore denied, however, that con
gresn would exceed Its powers in
issuing such a warning.
"My resolution," he said, "Is
based upon the report that Presi
dent Wilson is determined to go to
war If necessary and that certain
senator* believed our entrance into
war would be a blessing—in al
most liviedible report, I admit, but
with ivi rv circumstance polntlns
lo lis truth.
Discuss War Rumors
"If Americans embark on armed
ships to go to their death, and
lead the republic into war, would
It be a misfortune or an net of
tyranny to deny them passports?"
H R
Jay edition JL
To Gote's kuucnient of the presi
dent's position toward war. Stone
said:
President Wilson never stated
to me that he believed In any way,
or entertained the thoufht, that
war between the IT. 8. and the
central powers would be desirable
or result In our good."
"Why did nnt you ask him about
the truth of this report?" retorted
Gore.
I had no Invitation to see him
nor any reason to believe he would
tell me If I asked," Stone replied.
"If the report is untrue, of course
every one Is glad."
The president insists on an
out-and-out vote. He expect*
this to be opposed to a w -rv
Ing.
Meanwhile, diplomatic neg Ha
lons ' /er submarine warfare are
at for the admlnlstra
ion holds It cannot proceed until
the grapple between the executive
and legislative branches Is settled.
Conferences between the presK
dent and congressional leaders and
meetings of the foreign and rules
committees were slated today to
determine the result of the fight
The Issue is whether congress
shall vote at all upon warning res
olutions.
The administration Is trying to
force n record vote, holding atich a
'showdown" Is essential that Ger
many may know the president's
hand* are upheld in his stand for
American rights.
Opposition today to a rote la
widespread.
The house is the main battle
ground.
The senate Is disposed to await
the house's action.
Now "Watchfully Waiting"
President Wilson will make no
further |>osltlve move to pain a
"showdown" from congress In the
German situation.
Instead. according tc a high au-
Ihorlty. Hp has decided to leave It
to congress and the rotintry, de
pending upon the country to swing
congress to his way of thinking.
In other words, he has determin
ed to apply "watchful waiting" to
the situation, with congress and
the country fighting It out.
He believes the country will
bring congress around.
LINCOLN HIGH BOY
TO FIGHT OVERSEAS
Dudley Coddlngton, IS, TJncoln
high school student and son of Ar
thur Coddlngton, 2510 North 40tli
st . has withdrawn from school
Thursday to enlist in the British
army hospital corps at Victoria for
overseas service.
FAMOUS FXII F IS
BACK FROM SIBERIA'
PETROGRAD, March 2 —
Mine. Catherine Hreshkovsky,
Russian revolutionist, who, in
1!H)7, took active part In the
American woman suffrage cam
paign, has returned from Sibe
ria, the Russian government
having withdrawn its decree of
life exile, The famous revolu
tionist Is 72, feeble and almost
blind.
WEATHER FORECAST
Rain tonight and Friday.
