Vol. VIII
TOWNSHIPS HOLD
ELECTIONS TUESDAY
Townships will hold their annual
meetings for the election of off <•. rs
Tuesday. The polls wi'l be open
from 9 t 4.
Considerable Interest is being
taken in the elections th's year in
both Delta and Lynden towns'.ips,
and a heavy vote is expected.
NORTHWOOD SCHOOL
STARTS POTATO CLUB
A Potato Cub to determine
which pupil can raine the most and
best potatoes has been organized
in the Northwood sc! 001.
The business part of it is mov
ing nicely and the indicator pi tils
directly to the growing of oetter
potatoes and plenty of them. Dirt
has already begun to fly and the
little farmers have the best kind of
encouragement. The Club will
compete for the Community Cup
tj be awarded by the County Fair
this fall, and nearly thirty dollars
In prizes have already been sub
scribed, to be awarded at the local
school fair this fa'l.
The Club wishes to extend its
thanks for the hearty co-operation
and s tpimrt it has received.
Those having faith in the enter
prise and having contributed ,o Ha
support, so far, are Marion Bh-b -
ej, H. H. Jaruieaon, W.< R- .Tones,
Blonden Bros., Lynden Depar.men
Store, E. Edson, Y. H. Tromp,
Lynden Co-operative Co., C. C
Singer, and S. H. Lewis.
The organization of the Club >s
the result of being bitten by "The
Forward Movement in Education"
"bug" turned loose in the county
recently, by Prof. T. J. Newbill of
tbe State College. He is the U.
S expert and promoter of various
ciubs.
NORTHWOOD
The North wood Grange erected v
n'.co barn on their property last
week.
The Willing Workers were very
pleasantly entertained at the 1 ome
of Mrß. F. It, Bloom Wednesday.
Everyone spoke of its being a
splendid meeting.
B. M. Davenport, deputy superin
ttudent of schools, spent Thursday
forenoon flitting the schools.
Willis Worth-,n ia improving in
health uftor a very serious attack
Of pneumonia.
Mrs. T. Handy is spending a Sew
days with her daughter, Mrs. J.
Thorp.
Marian Cc'e is visiting a few
days at Mr. Swensoit's In Lyndon
Mrs. Dora Miller and Mrs. Ar
thur Riddle* and their daughters ol
Lynden, spent Thursday with MS.
Bell.
Andrew Vtnde'yacht and fami'j
visited Mr. and Mis. J. De Bruyn
one day last week.
C. Cavander took a trip up la
the hills Saturday.
Mrs. C. E Basford of Ee'lnig
ham, sister of Mrs, M. O'Brien, is
out for a few days' visit.
Roo and Van Leeuwen's mill b*-
tun opera:ion again Monday.
A FARM GAINING A REPUTA
, TION
The transformation of the logged
off lands, la the Puget Sound bas
in, into places (Sited for peaceful
and profitable habitation of man U
a work worthy of highest nouora.
Three utiles east of Lynden, Wn ,
lies a farm known, in the past as
tbe Park place. Here a game ol
loss and gain has been played fo
thirty years with the results on .n
lose side. A little more than t
year ago the writer and a brave
man ventured into the house and
barn, old dilapidated buildings, on
a tour of Inspection. You should
hure heard the remarks they made
to each other. Just a few weeks
later a Mr. Peterson, one of the
leading contractors of Seattle, be
came the owner of the ranch sad
engaged Ole Madsen, of Bayvitw,
Wash., to -o things. They have
been done. The changes have bet n
wonderful. More than a hundred
acres have been slashed, burned,
picked up, and seeded, a modem
dairy barn erected and a herd of
more than a dozen cows beii g cared
foi They have a fine chi.Ken
house with over a htyidred b*M
now doing duty. Last year they
bad one of the best gardens in the
county Something every ran. her
should have. Repair work in the
way of fencing is now going on
and everything is lively on the
furm Mr. Madsen is ably assisted
by his wife. _ c c SINGER
John W Edwards of PoHand
was In Lynden on business Tues
day.
GRANGE PROTESTS
AGAINST BRIDGE
That the proposed Marietta bridge
is not receiving tl'e unaniniotis sup
port of those in the Mt. View dis
trict,is shown in the following res
olution Kent The Tribune this
week:
Whereas it being published ihat
the Authorities of Whatcom County,
intend to build a steel bridge over
Nooksatk River between Marietta
and the Lumtui Reserve and where
ar. it is represented that the people
ol Mt. View desire said bridge for
tbe reason that it would greatly
shorten the distance to and from
the city of Bellingham, whereas
we believe and know that the dis
tance is not shortened for the large
majority of the citizens of Mt.
View, also in our opinion that there
is not enough travel or business
tributary to said bridge if built to
justify the cxpcise of building the
same.
Another reojon being the chan
nel of the Nooksack River may at
any time change an. is now work
:ng bi'Ck to the old channel, ftirth
ern ore such bridge si ould not be
built until such tf.ne as either the
Lummi Reserve becomes a part ' f
Whatcom County tx> help pay for ; t,
or the United Spates aa gtiardian of
the Lv mini helps pay for
its construction
Therefore, be it resolved by Gulf
Grange No. 241, that we are .ttterly
•I'posed, under present conditions,
to the building of a bridge over the
Nooksack River between Mar.elta
and the Lummi Reserve.
Carried unanimous'}-.
IRA ROBINSON, Sec.
County News
Everson me/chants have signed
m agreement to patronize ihe B.
j.ud N. exclusively and to boycott
he auto stages if the railroad
will promise them a daily freight
train.
Ferndale has a tennis club.
Some talk waa current in Bell
ingham last week to the effect
that a movement to recall Com
lulaal Pilars McMillan and Slater
would be started shortly.
Hicks and Son, proprietor of
he Sumas Advocate, purchased ihe
Sumas News this weeK and consol
idated the two papart. The Advo
cate was established a year ago.
,'ollowing considerable dissension.
Sumas is not large enough to sup
poil two papers, as both the News
&nd Advocate discovered, and t,he
onsolidation is one that will be
welcomed by all concerned.
The progressive state committee
if the State of Washington has
•ailed a slate convention of the pro
gressive party, us represented by
lelegates, to meet in the City of
Seattle in the State of Washington
tt 10:30 o'clock a. m. on Thu s
lay, May 4, 1916, to select thirteen
lelegates and thirteen alternans ;o
re national progressive party uon
ventin, which w ill meit in Chic'go
>n June 7, 1916.
Delegates WIU be chosen upon
the following basis: One de>gut"
for each 750 votes or major fme
lon thereof cast for Theodore
Roosevelt in 1912. Eve y . otinty.
nowever, wi'l have at least one deli
cate. Whatcom County is entitled
to six delegates.
County committefs are instructed
to call a county convention to me. t
at the Court House In the county
seat on or before 2:00 o'clock p.
m. on tie 15th day of April, 1916.
Li the event that the county coin
tail tee fails to take this action, the
progressives of any such county are
aoroby instructed to meet in mass
convention at the Court House at
2 30 o'clock p. m. on the 15th day
of April, 1916 and elect delegates to
the state convention in accordance
| with this call and to fill any vacan
j cics on ths county committee and
Ito transact any other business Lttat
I may properly come before it.
Mrs Harvey Smith and MS. Ev
erett Hawiey entertained the mem
bers of the Amphiotion Club and
t(eir husbands at the home of
Mrs. Hawley last Thursday night.
Five hundred was played at fix ta
bles, Mrs Wilder Jones having the
high score for the ladies and Mr.
Harvey Smith for the gentlemen.
At the conclusion of the games, a
delicious lunch was served by the
hostesses. Those present were
Messrs. and Mesdames Ray Slade,
Wilder Jones, George Wapies, Ed
Gerlach, J. Zylstra, Frank Blonden,
Dale Huleatt, Victor Buaaard, Chas.
Gehru»an, and the hostesses and
their husbands.
lonsolUutura of Ikr f artfU f Mat ano Hbr Cgnbrn Van
LYNDEN, WASHINGTON, MARCH 2, 1916
Frank Knapp Should Be Re-Elected
Plain statements made by the campaigner*, on both sides in ths election
Saturday of a school director for tbe Lynden district, leave absolutely no doubt
as to the main issue Involved. The point that will confront the vot»r if
this: "Should the present administration, represented by Frank Knapp, which
is responsible for retaining P. A. Wright as bead of the Lynden schools, be
continued?"
The Tribune is proud of the Lynden schools, recognizing with the vast
majority of citizens that they are on a higher basis than those in the smaller
I cities throughout the land. The pride that all Lynden takes In its schools
is not local egotism; it has authority In the opinions of Miss Delia Heeler,
I formerly county superintendent of schools, and Edwin H. Twitmyer, stats
j high school inspector, whose views are given in The Tribune this week.
Though lofty in quality, the Lynden system is being conducted on a mini
mum of expense. A 1916 state bulletin of statistics of high schools gives the
following figures: Aberdeen, with an enrollment of 286, is paying $64.69 per
pupil; Anacortes, with 145. pays $60; Blame, with 94, $80; Burlington, with
87, $76.44; Everett, 764, $77.80; Ferndale, 162, $80.50; Harmony, 40. $88.12;
Mt. Vernon, 197, $81. Lynden with an enrollment of 126, pays exactly $52.80
per pupil!
Aberdeen pays its superintendent $2,250; Anacortes, $1,800; Burlington,
$1,920; Cashmere, $1,700; Blame. $1,800; Ferndale, $1,500; Marysville, $1,600;
Mt. Vernon, $2,000. Lynden pbvs its superintendent $1,350 a year!
The present school administration should be complimented for giving
Lynden excellent school service so cheaply. Their efforts should be endorsed
by a vigorous vote Saturday to retain Frank Knapp.
Not that The Tribune feels tbat Will Lauckhart Is not amply qualified to
hold the position he seeks. Mr. Lauckhart has earned a reputation of integ
rity and worth that would honor any public office. The fact, however, that
his supporters have unfortunately attacked Lynden's present splendid school
system by assailing the men directly responsible for it, makes necessary
the support of Mr. Knapp.
Frank Knapp has made an efficient and painstaking member of the
school board. He has thoroughly acquainted himself with the workings and
needs of the schools during the years in which he has been on tbe board.
While not seeking re-election, be has consented to permit his name to be
placed before the people again. Frank Knapp has made good, and the people
owe it to themselves and to him to retain him on the school board.
Vote Saturday, and vote for Knapp.
LYNDEN FIVE WINS
COUNTY TOURNAMENT
Lynden triumphed over all comers
in the county basketball tourna
ment at the high school Friday and
Saturday. The tournament was a
decided success from • the stand
point of attendance, enthusiasm,
and fast games.
Harmory defeated Laurel Friday
night without exerting themselves
particularly by a score of 30 to 14,
and Normal High in a more closely
contested game, defeated Sumas 21
to 17. The fjrst half of the Lyn
ritti-Bluiue game ended IS >o IS
in favor and when the
final whistle blew, there was Joy
among the Lynden supporteis OS
the score was Lynden 28, Blame 23.
Lynden "came back" In the eec
oad half of the Blame game Satur
day afternoon and tied the Bcore.
In the five minutes of additional
play, Lynden won 30 to 25. Tnc
Harmony-Normal game was a dis
appointment as a fairly close game
was expected but the Normal boys
iramped and the Harmony boys
were fast and accurate, winning 55
to 19.
Saturday evening the opening
game was an exhibition contest be
v»een the Lynden Scouts and aec
>nd team. They were a tie 11-11
the first half but in the last half
the second team forged ahead and
won 25 to 18. The feeling of ncr-
A Statement From the Lauckhart Supporters
It has been rumored that Mr. Lauckhart's supporters have made
false statements concerning ihinf-e which have happened in the past
and Mrs. Mounter desires to state hat the school records are open for
inspection. These records veti'y .he statements made by the accused;
while the opposing side has not .o our knowledge made any attempt
to verify their statements by inviting or even remotely suggesting .hat
the voting public investigate tbe records, thus enabling them to intel
ligently express themselves at .he polls. We again repeat that com
mon honesty dictates that all voters demand a bill of tbe particulars
oltuiuable at the clerk's home.
Mrs. Mounter also wishes .o tleny that she haa ever at any time
made a stand for only teaches having college degrees being hired in
ths grades. She does, however. fctate that she believes in havl g for
lbs Supt at the head of our schools a teacher with a college degree
< ■ in any case with a certification AT LEAST AS GOOD as that of lhe
teachers under nis supervision. The last reports made to this dis
trict from the county and Btate offices show the following to be ih.e
certification of o;ir High School te. chers:
P. A. Wright, Supt., 2nd grade certificate $1350.00
L. C. Wright, Principal, 2nd grade certificate 1200.00
Elmina Graham, Bachelor of Arts d.egree 900.00
Grace Head'ick, Bachelor of Arts degree 675.00
Elsie Sweet, Bachelor of Arts degree 675 00
Fred Rockey, Bachelor of Science degree 810.00
Edith Gilllland, special certificate 675.00
Marguerite Fleming, spe. ial certificate 675.00
The above list ahows that in our high school the teachers with
the poorest certification are the ones receiving the highest salaries.
The standard of excellence of any school ia determined not by one or
two but by numerous factors —such, for Instance, aa the faculty, the
equipment, and the students themselves and we believe we have some
vtry good material In each of .hese factors. There are thoae who are
dcs tons of seeing those who are largely responsible for the efficiency
ot our schools, receiving their just share of the credit for it and their
jast share of the salaries.
There are many who question the right of two members of the
school board to meet on the street and afterward notify the third
member of the board as to what they decided on any question, as has
b»en customary. The legality of such meetings haa been questioned.
So far an we know, Mr. Lauckhart has made no statement to
his supporters concerning his policy toward any person or persons
but expresses himself as standing for an honest deal and fair play to
all. If the supporters of any person or persons are alarmed at the
consequences of fair play, do they not thereby condemn themselves
and the ones whom they support?
The election of the teachers for the ensuing year will most like
ly not occur for some time yet, and. should Mr. Lauckhart be elected
he will have ample time to satisfy himself aa to the merits of those
whose competency is questioned.
FRASIER IS FIRST TO
ANNOUNCE CANDIDACY
The early bird in the county's
election campaign this year, ia A.
H. Frasier. Mr. Frasier formally
anouncea his candidacy for county
commissioner in this issue of The
From now on, the political situa
tion in the county will become more
and more Interesting, as candidates
for the various places announce
themselves from week to week.
Mrs. Geo. Adam and daughter,
Miss Verna, of Ferndale, were the
guests at ths J. W. Trematn borne
Sunday.
Professor Mulao, bacteriologist of
the State College of Washington, is
>reparlng inoculation material for
the following legumes: alfa fa, fle d
peas, and red clover. The prepar
ation will be ready for ahlpment
during tbe months of March, April
and May. It ia in liquid form and
can easily be applied. Tbe cost
will be about 25 cents per acre.
vousneas on the part of Lynden
supporters waa lees noticeable in
the final Lynden-Harmony game
when the first half ended 14 to 7
in Lynden's favor. The last half
was fast but the home team never
lost its lead and won 24 lo 16
land was awarded the champio.ißhip
pennant
CREAMERY TO OPEN
STORE IN SEATTLE
An important move for ihe ioca l
dairy interests was made ibis
week, when the directors of the
Lynden Creamery Co. announced
their intention of opening a whole
sale butter, egg, and cheese business
in Seattle.
Tbe creamery store will deal di
rectly with the retiilers. and will
thereby eliminate commission house
profits and increase the returns io
the farmers. Frank Lopas will ;ct
as manager of the stove.
As a result of low prices in San
Francisco, butter dropped four
cents a pound this week. Butter
fat in Lynden is 33 cents, as
against 3 7 cents formerly. It is in
teresting to note that although but
ter-fat in Seattle is quoted at 30
cents, the farmers are receiving 33
cents locally.
BOOTHS CORNERS
Captain N. A. Palmer and wife of
Poison Montana, who have been
' visiting their parents, Mr. and Mrs
S L. Palmer and other relatives
the past six weeka, returned to
their home last week.
Alvah Litton of Eastern Wash
ington is visiting his parents, Mr.
and Mrs. James Litton.
Joe Davison of Blame was a Sun
day callet at John Pearson's.
Mr. Hungerford of Bellingham
was in this neighborhood Tuesday
George Schenk and family from
Paradise, moved onto his new place
last week.
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Palmer visited
at John Limings in Lynden Thurs
day.
Mr. and Mrs. Ben Stremler called
on Mr. and Mrs. John Troost Fri
day evening.
Otho Wilson, Clyde and Raymond
Wllaon of Lynden and Frankhi
Swope were dinner guests of Mr
and Mrs. George Rathbone Sunday
Arlie Palmer visited with E sit
and Minnie Troost Saturday.
Mrs. Alice Crainc was a Belling
ham visitor Saturday.
Mrs. Ivy Palmer visited Mrs.
Ruth Palmer Thursday afternoon.
Miss Elsie "Bovendam visited
home folks Monday.
Mrs. G. N. Heaton is visiting her
sitter-in-law, Mra. Ecker of Bel'ing
ham this week.
Mrs. Hattie Leake visited her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Troost
Saturday aftoi'uoon.
Mr. and Mrs. Earl Craine were
pltt.sant callers at Charlie Love's
of Fairview Sunday afternoon.
Mrs. Mary Svvopo visited Mts
Maude Palmer Thursday.
The Van dcr Hoef family moved
onto the Hungerford place last
wock.
Mr. and Mia. John Troost and
scr Charlie w.-re Satu r day even'n'
eallerg at the George Leake home.
Rev. Heineo of Seattle and Mr.
De Hoogh of Lynden called at Joht
Fcvondara's Saturday evening.
Lily Pearson spent Sunday after
neon with Arlie and Vernitta Pa'-
nicr.
Mr. and Mra. S. L. Palmer .isit
od with Mr. am. Mrs. G. A. Palmn
of Glendale, Sunday.
Mies Allie Trooßt, a nurse in St.
Lt.ke'g hospi al of BeUingham vis
[ltd her parents, Mr. and Mrs. John
Troost Saturday afternoon.
Mr. and J. H. Swope and
c'acghtors were S'.nt'ay visitors at
A C. Palmer's.
Mrs. Jack Van 'or Yacht pnr"
tb'ee small children have been very
ii with the r.;oaslcs. Th*y are :e
--covcring now.
S. L. Palmer v:ao a Bellingha:;
visitor Saturday.
Mra. Janice Thorp called on Mrs.
J H. Swope Moncty afternoon.
DELTA & SUNSHINE
A hay rack party consisting of
lhe members of the Sunshine .tub
drove to Lynden Saturday evening
and took in the basketball games
Anna Lund and Esther Axltind
of Bellingham visited with friends
and relatives here Sunday.
Mrs. Caikiua of Glen Echo has
moved into the Meyers house.
Leon Barton and Joe Helgath
are hauling lumber for the Sunny
side mill.
Dr. Mathes of Bellingham WIU
speak at Sunshine school oa Friday
evening at 8 o'clock.
Myron Baldwin visited at the
Calkins home Sunday afternoon.
Herman Keller and Joe Haan
were Lynden visitors Saturday
Jaekman Bros, are erecting a
new house for their hired man.
Shady Brook shingle mill started
vi last week.
E. Markstrom received slight in
juries while plowing one day last
week.
TO ELECT SCHOOL
DIRECTORSATURDAY
Election of a school director for
the Lynden district will take piece
Saturday from 1 to 6 p. m. at the
High School.
The candidates for the place pre
Will Lauckhart and Frank Kna;«p.
The Lynden diEtri.t now it.eludes
considerable rural territory, end
Mr. Lattckhart's name is being pre
sented by those who believe ih s
country section should be reprcsfn'-
ed. Mr. Knapp is a candidate to
succeed himself on the board.
VAN BUREN
H. P. Johnson was a Be'lingham
Visitor Monday.
Mrs. O. A. Kirkman entertained
Miss C.mr.ell of Clearbrook
Sunday.
Mr. and Mr.. Wra. Rarick en'er
'ained a number of friends and
relatives Feb. 22, in honor of Mr.
Rarick's 80th birthday. Those
present were Mr. and M r s. Robert
Kirkman and family Mrs. Robert
Conner and children Elmer, Bessie
md Helen, and Mrs. B. Hughes and
•ions, William, George, Edward and
Charles.
Mrs. J. McKay of Clearbrook
■ipent Monday at the A. Gillil
home-
Mrs. F. H. Larson spent a omp'e
if days thU week with Mrs. Rob*
.•rt Kirkman.
William Rarick Jr.. was an Evcr
<on visitor Saturday.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hinton, F.
9, Larson and Robert Kirkman at
' ended services In the Baptist
:hurch in Sumar. Sunday evening.
Pearl Nims of Prairie District
Sumas visited friends in this vi
•inity Monday.
Mr. and Mrs. O. Wi'coxen and
ton Merwin vicitod friends near
Vooksack Sunday.
Charlts Si aiding of Seaitle was
he week-end guest at the home
if Wm. Perry last week.
Annie Benson spent Sunday with
Vliss Laura Nutter.
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Hatch and
family visited Mr. and Mrs. Kirk
uan one day last week.
The basketball game played Fri
lay night between Cle.irbrook and
Lawrence was won by the latter by
t score of 18 to 28.
Carl Larson spent a few days
ast week visiting friends and te!-
itives of tit is vicinity.
Eva Silea of Nooksack and Vio'a
Wilcoxen visited Lois Heathers one
day last week.
Chester Pierce and Harry Wi'.-
jcxen attended services in Nook
iack Sunday evening.
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Alex and
family vi3itcd Mr. and Mrs. Porter
bf Strandell Sunday.
Mrs. Sherman Heathers called at
ihe Gillis home Sunday afternoon.
GLENDALE
Mr. and Mrs. H. Perm were
pleasantly surprised Saturday ex
citing by a number of their friends.
Mr. and Mrs. Perm are moving to
Lynden where they will reside.
Several from here attended ;he
lasketball tournament at Lynden.
Mr. and Mrs. Dan McLeod and
iaughter Lillian, and Mrs. Elnia
Culp spent Friday at the Bob Mc-
Leod and Lynn Thomson homes >n
Sunrise.
Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Love of Fair
view visited at the G. L. Abbott
::ome Thursday.
Glendale will debate C earbrook
at Glendale,' Friday, March 3, on
he question, "Resolved, That al!
revenues for local purposes in the
■itate of Washington should be
raised by a tax levied on land val
ues only. Constitutionality grant
ed. Glendale has tbe Negative
Admission is free but a collection
will be taken.
The Domestic Science class wish
to announce that they will sell hot
lunches to those at the Township
Election, March "th.
The division of agronomy of the
State College of Washington ;s iiow
shipping orders for field peas, oats,
barley, wheat, and corn. They ex
pect to senl about one thousand
bushels of seed to the farmers of
the state this spring. The com
costs five cents per pound, (he peas
four cents, and the wheat, oats and
barley two cents, all f. o. b. Put -
man. The seed room has been well
fumigated with carbon bisulphite to
guard against the possibility of any
insect pest being in the seed.
A preliminary germination test
of th* seed corn proved very Bit>s
factory, 17 per cent of the Wind us
White Dent corn and 9 8 per cent cf
the Thayer Yellow Dent corn ger
minated.
Miss Mary Wlncrell left Friday
for BellinghaE, where she wjll t ake
ui> millinery.
No. 37
