Gtuti '.lintorirvil Coclct;
Taney County
epublican
KOKNYTI1, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, MA1IC1I '-, 1910.
Four Pages.
Voi,. 2 !. N 10.
Washington Letter
i from Our Ki'rfiiliir Currt'spondi'iit.)
New German Crisis: -Another
crisis with Germany, one manufactured
at the White House but no less capa
ble ol serious results lor that reason, is
now agitating those who have the peace
and the good name of this country at
heart. Prompted by a determinadon
to achieve something which might pro
mote his political fortunes, President
Wilson caused Secretary Lansing to
propose to the neutral and allied pow
ers of Europe that all merchant ships
should abandon the timehouored prac
tice of carrying arms designed for self
defense, and even suggested that this
country might decline to admit to her
ports or permit to depart therefrom any
vessel so armed. And this proposal
was made with, apparently, no realiz
ation of the difficult attending the
alteration of int rna'.icnal lav in time
of war and no recollection that this
Gov rnmnt had as recently as Nov
emb-r. 1914, put i'rll on record in
Opp 't"n tMi'h Grmioj,
Ditura.ly inspired oy toe udiel tlut, m
view of this Government's having made
this proposal, it would he in hearty ac
oid with it, liotifi.ii the lH;d Su'.es
that af f-r this m.'trh, while r'lrait:ing
from Mitkirg unatnitU pii-viigers and
crew an opportunity t i-sonpc, it would
treat every armed vessel, even if armed
only for sell-defense as a belligerent
vessel and sink it withrut warning.
This announcement was obvkusly
pleasng to Mr. Wilson, who Cd'js; d
inspired newspaper dispatches to be
written saying that the Administration
cordially approved Germany's position.
Oo February 15th however, Senator
Sterling introduced a resolution pro
testing against G rmany's purpose and
calling attention to unequivocal asser
tions of this Administration, dated
September 26 and November 7, 1914,
that under fixed principles of internal
tonal law merchant ships were entitled
to carry sufficient armament for self'
protection and did not, thereby, for
feit anything of the rights or character
of merchant ships, and to the further
declaration of President Wilson, of
Miv 13, 1915, that "American citizens
were within their undisputed rights in
taking their (the beligerent's) ships
ships and in traveling wherever thfi
lezitimate business calls them on the
hih seas."
sation, as despondent and some . of
them are seriously concerned lest he
do something desperate in an effort to
retrieve his political fortunes. Hardly
had Mr. Root concluded his great
arraignment when Mr. Bryan delivered
an address at Tampa, Fla., where he
is spending the winter, attacking the
President's preparedness policy and
intimating that Mr. Wilson was under
the domination of the interests which
sell munitions and armament, and
Speaker Clark made a public speech
in whicn he saia tnat tne people who
are trying to pull us into the foreign
war and the persons who do not want
to fight, no matter what the provoca
tion, are both detrimental to the repub
lic" and that he would like to take
hem both by the nape of the neck
an;l put them into the European trench-
Then from various q'tirfrs close
to Mr. Brym came reports that The
mmoner" would make a determined
runt aeainst Mr. Wilson at St. Louis
because of his repudiation ol the one
term plank in the Baltimore platform.
itjgeiht-r, Mr. Wilson finds the path
of a politically ambitious bridegroom
strewn with anything but roses.
PARDON rEARS FRUIT: Attention
was calL-d recently to President nil-
son.s r-ciciess pardoning oi two utia-
uma officials convicted of fraud in
trying to deprive the negroes of that
State of right to vote, under the infa
mous "urandfathcr clause" of the State
Constitution, a pardon issued immedi
ately alter the Supreme Court had af
firmed the guilt of the men and which
was accepted as designed to encour
age the State legislature to devise
some other means oi depriving tne
colored voters of the suffrage. Now
come repots from Oklahoma that when
the Legislature met the Democratic
majorities immediately undertook to
devise such legislation and that during
the vote in the Oklahoma House of
Representatives there occurred a free
fight in which Arthur H. Geissler, Re
publican State Chairman, was knocked
nsensible and others injured. Reports
from Oklahoma indicate that, with con
fidence that the courts cannot punish
them as long as Mr. Wilson retains
the pardoning power there is no limit
tu which th Okl.ihomi Demoerais will
not tfo in their determination to keep
he colored voters Irom the polls.
ADMINISTRATION'S SOMERSAULT:
On February 18;h S. nators L:de
and Sterling ad .resscd the Senate oi
this subject, citing the authorictirji and
and quoting Mr. Wilson's various offi
cial declaration on the subject. Sen
ator Sterling charged that "the Get
man Admiralty was encouraged if not
invited by the memoranda of te Sm
Department" to adopt a poiicy whicn
involves consequences more serious
than any that have yet disturbed us
grave as some of them have been
Immediately following this exposure
its reckless inconsistency, the Altnini
tration turned a somersault, revrrsf
its position and caused it to becomt
known that it would not agree to Ger
many's plan. From Germany have
come explicit, if not actually official
declarations that the German Admiralty
is determined to pursue the course it
had outlined, that it regards the chang
of face of the United States as distinct
ly unfriendly, and it will neither deft
its orders to German submarine con
raanders nor engage in delaying negc
tiations with this country. Apparently
this country, therefore, faces the altei
native of a humiliating backdown or of
severing diplomatic relations with Gei
many, with possibly much graver col
I quences.
Writhes Under Root Speech:
It is eviden' to i obsttvfr that
Presdent Wilson is writhing undr
Senator Root's speech and is the mnr
desperate because of the avowed oppo
iitioo of former Secretary Bryan. M
Wilson Has summoned a num!ir r
D niocr-rtic SiMniois to lite Wni
House and has implored them to d
vote their best rfiorts to defending him
against Mr. Root's scathing indictmen
Thos? who hive taik-d to the tr
dent dscrbt, him in ptiv-uc cont
Mr. Wilson was exer'ing his power a;
President to forestall and prevent mili
tary preparedness and sneering at those
who urged that at least this country
make a careful survey cf its military re
sources; and only now, when the opin
ion that we should no longer remain
defenseless has become public opinion
and insistent and even peremptory has
President Wilson not leading but fol
lowingshifted his ground and asked
Congress to make some adequate pre
preparation lor national defense. And
even now, Mr. Wilsou's Democratic
colleagues, perplexed by his change
of attitude, are unwilling to adopt his
newly adopted ideas. The assembling
of a Cabinet t.l small men, chosen not
lor their ability to serve the nation but
for their usefulness in promoting the
political ambition of the newly-elected
President to harmonizj the factions in
his party and insure for himself a second
t-rm, will constitute one of the im
portant issues, and it will be pointed
out that, with only two strong men in
the entir Cabinet, Garrison and Lane,
the first was compelled to resign and
the second has been placed in position
where his strength must prove of least
avail to the nation as a whole. Senator
jot's speech was a true keynote of
the campaign and, while it wins singul-
rly free from personalities, it effective-
portrayed Woodrow Wilson as a man
of infinite smallness who, in the confi
dence of his cverweaning conceit has
surrounded himself with a Cabinet
composed of m a as in efficient as they
are narrow.
AT GARRSON'S DOOR: Officers
and clerks on coming to work in the
War department yesterday were sur
prised to see a notice on the door of
the Secretary of war it read, "Lindley
Garrison placed principle above
politic I expediency. Of course, he
could not remain in Woodrow Wilson's
Cabinet." As soon as some of the
senior officers arrived it was torn down
but not until hundreds had read it.
The Issues oy the campaign:
Ex-Srnator Root's speech before the
New York Republican Contention has
clearly defined the issues of the Presi
deutial campaign that he who runs may
read. These are Democratic tariff
eaislation and a hostility to business
prosperity which produced seriously
hard times that were only temporarily
lUdtrd by the outbreak of the Euro
pean War; a Mexican policy actuated
ly hatred of Huerta, of Mexico, which
ed President Wilson to "butt iu" in
he Mexican situation to the extent ol
nv-ilin Vera Cruz and sacrificirg
leven American and 300 Mexican
ives; to alin this Government with
the bandits who were almost daily
murdering American men, outraging
American women and destroying un
told millions of American property; to
adopt a partisanship in Mexican affairs
which induced Mr. Wilson to refrain
from anything but hollow protests a
gainst the outrages perpetrated on
Americans; a foreign policy character
ized by first shaking the fist at foreign
nations violating American rights, and
later shaking the finger at them, a pol
icy which has resulted in no flag being
so dishonored and no citizenship as little
worth chvming as ours. As 'Mr. Root
pointed cut, within four days alter the
sinking of the Lu.itania, and while
Americans were still mpuroing fcr th
relatives and iriecds who bad gone
down in her, President Wilson in
public speech proclaimed to tht world
that "a man may be too proud to right,'
and whatever he may now say he meant
by it, the phrase has become byword
ol derision for the Government of th
United States." During the early days
of the star, when little Switzerland and
neutnl little He Hand were mobilizing
their military drees as a warning that
their neutrality must not be violated,
Wilson Repudiates Pledge:
Our platf rm is not molasses to catch
yes. It means business. It is the ut
terance of earnest and honest men
who intend to do business along those
nes, and who are not wailing to see
whether they are going to act on them
or not." Sj spoke Woodrow Wilson,
addressing a political meeting on Aug
ust 15, 1912, j ist one months after his
nomination for President.
'Our platlorm is one of principles
which we believe to be essential to our
national welfare. Our pledges are
made to be kept in office, as well as I
relied on during the canjpaign." So
read the Democratic national platform
on which Mr. Wilson had been nom-
nated. And that platform contained
this pledge: "We favor a single Pres
idential term, and to that end urge the
the adoption of an amendment to the
Constitution making the President of
the United States ineligible for re-election,
and we pledge the candidate of
this convention to this principle."
'In order, therefore, to satisfy the
technical requirements of the statutes
of the State of Ohio, I hereby consent
to the ue cf my name as a candidate
for tre Presidency by any candidate
who seeks to be elected a delegate to
the Democratic Nitional Convention
which is to assemble in June." So
S) wrote Woodrow Wilson on January
14, 1916, to Chas. Q. Hilderbrandt,
Secretary of State for Ohio. So clear
ly is Mr. Wilson convicted by his own
words that no comment is necessary.
render his rehabiliation a herculean
task. In a single chapter, Mr. Root
laid bare the woeful inefficiency of the
Democratic party, the characteristic
and tetnpermental unfitness of Wood
row Wilson fot his high office and the
long array of deplorable and humiliat
ing blunders which have resulted from
entrusting the Government of a great
nation to such incompslents. "The
sad part of Mr. Root's indictment is
that every word of it is true." said a
pmminent and lifelong Democrat, today
"We Democrats, however loyal, can
not answer it. We must devote our
efforts to trying to distract public at
tention from it."
Suppressing Facts Regarding Mexico
Alter many weeks delay Mr. Wilson
deigned to make answer to the Sen
ate's demand for information regarding
affairs in Mexico. When Senator Fall
first formulated his requests for the
frets, early in the session, there was a
disposition among Democrats to smoth
er the resolution in committee; but as
this method seemed too transparent
and too dangerous, the administration
(orces made a fine show of bravery,
asserted that there was nothing to be
concealed in the Mexican business,
and the resolution was passed without
opposition.
At lencth the reply came in the
lorm of a letter from Secretary Lansing,
ho, writhiug at the Presidents orders,
declares that is "incompatible with
the public interest" to make known
much of the material which the Senate
asked for. Among these hidden facts
are the orders under which our forces
entered upon the ill-starred expedition
to Vera Cruz and the correspondence
sent to the State Department by the
Brazilian Minister in Mexico while he
was in charge ol our interests there.
But the outstanding fact which Mr.
1 Wilson could not deny to the Senate
and to the country is contained in Mr.
Lansing's "watchful waiting" began
its deadly work and that 36 others
among them 16 American soldiers-
have been killed on American soil by
bands of invaders.
Iu the face of these gruesome de
tails Mr. Wilson has the hardihood to
tell the Senate that there is in Mexico
"reasonably adequate protection to the
lives and property of Americans, and
that Carranza is maintaining as good a
government down there as anyone
ought to expect.
Fortunately the files ol the State
Department are not the only place in
which to find authentic information re
garding conditions in Mexico. Sen
ator Fall who introduced the resolution
of inquiry and who was careful to draft
his demands to cover the essential
points in such inquiry, already has
authenticated information covering
much of the ground which Mr. Wilson
seeks to surround with secrecy. This
information will be given to the conn
try by means of debate in the Senate;
and Mr. Wilson will find that he can
not hoodwink the country as to the
fruits of his disastrous Mexican policy.
J. II. PARRISH, President. J. W. REESE, Vici-Pbesidint.
S. W. BOSWELL, Cashiii.
TANEY COUNTY BANK,
Forsyth, Missouri.
Capital Stock
Surplus and Undivided Profits
$25,000.00.
$40,000.00.
A General Hanking Business Transacted
Collections a Specialty Your Patronage Solicited
IJ. MILLS, President
M. 15. SLUSIIEK, Cashier
Bank of Bradleyville
Bradleyville, Mo.
Capital Stock Paid In,
Surplus Earned, -
$10,000.00
2,000.00
A Scathing arraignment: -It
is doubtful if ever before a President
ol the United States was subjected to
so scathing an arraignment as was Pres
ident' Wilson by Elihu Root, in open
ing the New York Republican Conven
tion. Dignity, incisivness. forceful
and pitiless logic and a complete ab
sence of violence or even extravagance
made Mr. Root's indictment so terrible
that the Administration is today fairly
writhing under it and Democrats in
in Congress are prone to admit in pri
vate conversation, that the former Sen
ator from N w York hai so mercilessly
The trouble with President Wilscn
as an advocate of preparedness or any
other policy is that the people do not
eive himcredit for sincerity. For mere
than a year the White House was giv
ine stories of "acute crises," which
were regularly succeeded by diplo
raatic triumphs." After a year of that
sort of thing, people were naturally not
in a good frame of mind to take Mr.
Wilson seriously when he went out on
the stump and told them that he
"knew not w'lat an hour may bring
lorth." Most people, in their child
hood, learned the tragic story of the
when thre was ho woll.
"Having known Jo Daniels lor lorty
years, we are prepared to say that
has enough tar on his heels not to jar
loose because of a few funny little
knocks of mosquito-crushing rnomen
turn."--George M. Bailey in Houston
"Post". Q lite right. Nothing short
ol the national election that is coming
next vear will j rr Josephus Irom the
expoi.-d the cliy feet of this idol as to payroll.
Collections a Specialty
WE SOLICIT YOUR BUSINESS
T. MHlIOX, E. G MILLS, J- B. MILLS,
J. T- Mcl'HEKSON, M. H. SLUSHEK,
Directors
Home of the Big Black Bass
Fine Place to Fish Fine Place to Stop
Hotel Forsyth,
Forsyth, Mo.
Rates $2.00 per Day
S. E. MILLER,
Proprietor.
Agency Frank B. Smith Laundry
ESBG8X3&SVB3B9&JI
The Nelson Hotel
J. W. NELSON, Proprietor
One-Half Block South of the Court House.
Rates $1.00 per Day
First Class Accommodations.
A Good Feed Stable in Connection.
IZBS&SS39T1
Room With Bath,
$1.25 to $1.50
Room Without Bath,
75c to $1.00
THE
METROPOLITAN
Springfield's Oldest First Class Hotel
Jesse Nance, Manager
"MEET ME AT THE MET."
Springfield,
M:
ssoun.
1
3
