VOLXXlli, NO 8
r .. ' - .
L I. ISSlvj , , " S-r- iHOPilli iBHiE
ANNUALREPORTl feP-4 :: OIIOI RlilWGHiGB
' I TnTTTTTTTTTTTT7T7TTT3Ea fs v, w Tl III III j :v . ; ' .7- --v- 7,
nlE STATEME ITITH ESSUR
VNCE COMMISSIONER FOR TtfE .
YEAR ENDING DEC. 19lX; V
p. F. PATON RESIGNS?
gwies That State Examiner Compli
nusnts Association as Being the " .
Best in the State. " ? . ! v: '
The annua? report of the Laborer
Building and Loan association which
is published in another, column of this
issue shows a wonderful growth Z for
tius institution, which is doing more
to build homes in Hendersonville than
any other one concern. 5 ' ' .
. U15wl VJL wyw A0 : U1VU TF 44rA
the Insurance Commissioner of th-j
State will convince anyone that the as:
sooiation is conducted upon high bus
, iness principals and that: the, showing
is one of the best made byl any "associa
tion in the State. - This statement was
verified recently by the state examiner
of building and loan associations.
Over $17,000 were received " during
the past year in installment while
during the same period $38,600 "
matured in the first series and paid
out to the stockholders in cash and
cancelled mortgages. - There are
seven series now in force and one of
them will mature "within the next few
months. -.. :
The total number of shares in force
now is 13S6 an . dthere are 152 Stock
holders in the association, which
shows that it is being well patronized.;
One remarkable feature of the asso-J
ciation is the small amount of expense,
attached to conducting its affairs.
There is no rent, only $75 salaries,
$278.24 in taxes and a small advertis-5
ing and printing account. The First
Bank and Trust . company . furnished
the institution 'office roonT and .clerical
help while the officerjof ytheassoeia
tior are also officers in the bank.
.. The aHualline'etingf of fhe &tock
holders 'of-the' assaeiation'has r been
called for Tuesday, March-14, at which
time officers' will berelected for the en
sueing year.7"-. '-.- ;. - --, ... .
P. F. Patten Resigns. ,,
P. F. PattOn who has been the sec
retary and treasurer of the' associa
tion since its organization Ja resign .
ea ana nis successor win uc cic.wu
-. i L .111- 1 r. I
at the coming meeting. The following.
letter has been received by the presi
dent, "
Feb. 21, 1916.:
Mr. W. A. Smith.. President Laborers
Building & Ldan Association, Hen
dersonville, N, C. ; . . : . :.
Dear Sir:
With much regret I herewith tender
you my resignation ; as Secretary" &
Treasurer of the Laborers Building &
Loan Association. ..The annual meet
ing which is to be' held on March 14,
will be the proper date for the election
of a new secretary and treasurer, j
I feel that the stockholders have a
right to be proud of our association
since we have been complimented by
the State Examiner who says that we
ihave the best association in the state.
I know of no, organization more bene-c;-i
than curs not only to the stock
holders but tb the growth and develop
ment of Hendersonville as well. Were
it1 not for my absence I would be glad
to remain an officer of this association.
"If I may be . permitted to make a
suggestion it is my opinion that Mr.
H: A. Stepp who has always been a
faithful worker, for the association and
is thoroughly competent and more Coffee and Sandwiches Served Satttr
familiar with the work of the associa-, V , " m mm , m ,
familiar with the
tion than any one else would make the
best secretary and treasurer available.
Yours truly,
(Signed) - P. F. PAT.TON.
FOUR GALLONS AND THREE
otTaktS ppr TilVFrORD f
QUARTS PER DAY RECORD.
" , ' .
J. C. Waldrop believes that he has :
one of the record producing cows in
the county. He states that hur Jersey
nw giving, tour gauoiis ana mi
quarts per day or about 38 pounds of
milk.
RECEIVER FOR CHICK SPRINGS.
Spartanburg, S. C., March 1. Judge
S,.rings Company. The action for a
prQperty wag brought by C.
01 Asheille as trustee for the bona- ;
holders. .--i . ;
EDNEYYILLE RlijHEWS,
Mr.. Mnnrna .- T.vrla. ana - iamilT . arcs -.
- . - . f . . .
wing to mqvto'Nampadaho,
week. .tr -.-Z'rzr.lZyS
JMr. JamesWhiteside has 7en . on
the sick list r for the-past 3?-
-ur. ana lvirii. ijtus xjjtu uac ivui
a rrom Hendersonville wnere mc .
have been spending . the.: past few J
VM?'rw t ' xrAn ' Waa hftfin verV m
for tho nocf fAMovfi - ' " ' J v i ' -
r the past few days. .
Mr. James Haydock-and ramuyrr
suing to iflaso m.a iew Qhj-b. ,
Misses Vernie Nix f Grace wmt-. 7 a Tuesday cleaning ' klnd to me. r" .
aker spent Sunday with Mr. and Mrs., force vere u y sU alks . , . .No3Sr irtbe Democrats of the dis
W. P. Maxwell of Hendersonville, R-2 the sireeLs
rnrTTiTrrn
Ji
Si.
A Fac-simile of the Proposed Advertisement to be Us?d in 1 1 iiximber of Leading
Publications Throughout the United States by the; .Qty, Bcaid.of .Trade and
vrMerchants Association in a Campaign to be Started Ja Qnc: v? o j v j
PEOPLE ARE ADVISED TO
PAY UP THEIR ACCOUNTS
3Istrrial Being Gathered for One of
Z; the Most Comprehensive Bating
Books Ever Published.
There appears in the 'Hustler today
an advertisement by the-Merchants'
association in which the people ofHex;
dersonville are advised that, there is
being 4 prepared for this city an Expe-'letter
rience Credit guide, in vhich every
person carying credit of any kind will
be rated; according .to the manner ; in
hwhica ttejr pajrtiieir-bills. It was an-.
siouncedr' last week - that- sucli. an un-f
aeriaKmg naa .ucen inaprsea uy om-
but1 it' wa?3 "'necessary for at feast 26
ffrms to join the association before tho
guide could be: published; Thelatest
announcement, therefore, means that
the publication is now assured.' '
The guide here, 'which will be:;simi-.
lar to those recntly published for Rar
eight Greensboro and about a score of
other towns and cities of North Caro
lina both Henderson and Transylva
nia and possibly other counties of tne
vicinity. It will be comprehensive in
its scope, and is expected to be of in
estimable value, to the business men
oi the section, at the same time prov
ing valuable, ultimately to the people
wiic pay their accounts promptly.
. Within the next few days letters will
be mailed to every person in this sec
tion who owes any of the merchants
of the association an account,, which
according to promise or reasonable
expectation Is past due, and as no one
could expect a merchant to carry his
oi her account beyond the past due
period "and then give a good rating to
that person, it is highly important to
every person receiving these letters
that they regard them in the proper
light and promptly pay -or arrange
same satisfactorily. The ratings now
being- gotten up are going, to be fair
to everybody,; it is stated. . .;
WOMEN OF COUNTY UBGED
TO VISIT THE REST IUIUJU.
day From 11 a. m. TU1 4 p. m.;
liadies of coumy 10 Assisu .
That the rest rooma maintained by
ithe city of Hendersonville Merchants
L 1 association jointly should be better
Patronized by the people of the county
oDinion of those in charge. Every
fppilitv for the comfort and pleasure
tyenrr0vfded for the women who
Hehdersonville- with babies,
; " friends. Rocking chairs,
, . . . o - fr rmnri8e the furnish-
ings of the rooms over Glazener .ana
Hunter's stores on Main street Steam
heat and modern conveniences are sup
plied the visitors absolutely free of
i . 'ji.. ' Vi wnmaTls rlllb Of
P-. Jnt?Jn be represent-
1 . xxrvtrx too iiiiiic. ui
; "1 m a iftdv friba Blue Ridge
.
AtowWip will! assist In the , serving
i Saturday. 'Next week a member from
": X;. the Ho"6 Shoe section will be asked
. LAIC .,.n, nOTt .Af
:iwe B ;7 hi PVPnf MTt of
r M Tl n Kll .UU UUM W Mr -
w www -frr, tr -h.
irVand thP women coming to Hen-
, miss a treat if, they ,J
5 vio ere Saturday : ' ' , i.,
- v- , Tm sxoWED.. V
AID
Snow began - falling; nda: after-
r;nntinued during. the night
noon
t0ri inches had covered tho.0crat all-my life, and -have tried t)
?r 'V M, one of the heaviest.'
. The city stfeet
H ENDERSON VILLE, C. THURSDAyJ:MARCH 2, 1916
Hendersonville -Wants $w
If vou are a manufacturer it, will pay
. ages of locating" your plant 'here ;Th
standpoint" of health and effi cency of-. your Employees. Competent
.help can be secured at loyy . rates, '' transportation - facilities are
good, and raw material ih:m any - lines is "plentiful, Free factory ;
sites and other inducements are offered, responsible concerns. For
-full particulars write . ''i-y':.' A':i' ,r. "' f. :;;
HendersoBTiHe' Elerchants Assi riatiea ;: :j ;: 'ti
JUSTICE AT THE SERVICE
OF THE DEMOCRATIC ; PARTI.
Rutherf ordton - Judge ZlSot Z Seeking
Nomination JBut YVill Run' Against' .
:"' Britt Duty Demands. ' :
V Marion, March 2.Below will "be
fo'ind the correspondence between
Messrs'. Justice . and ' 'Gilkey; ;which
settles the matter of Judge Justice
candidacy. Judge Justice . held court
here last week. In an interview with
jyUr corresp0'ndent . foe stated' that; his
position was clearly set forth in his
to Mr. Gilkey arid that . for the
present he had nothing further to say.
The claim for Judge Justice-as set
forth in Mr. Gilkey 's letter can hardly j
be disputedV and , his host of friend
believe that -he will be nominated.
Many, orVthe Democratic ieaaera oe--
' - v; .'- - ,
was' as follows:
"As you know, my business is Ma
the commercial line and takes me all
over the. 10th Congressional District,
I think I am in an" unusual position
to : know the feelings and 'sentiments
of the majority of the Democrats in
this ' district. The vote fpr; United
States Senator showed : a majority ot
more , than 1,200 Democrats in this
district. On account of dissensions as
to Congressman, we have now, a Re
publican Congressman. Ibelieve.that
if you will become a candidate," the
younger men will be content "to defer
their ambition and that you will
have opposition in your party.; You
can, of course, get practically every
vote in Rutherfordton County no
manor. wW runes T am sure thri
same is true in McDowell and Polk
and this side of the ridge will feel
that the western side should in justice
to us .yield to' our claim, for recogni
tion; and I also know that vast num
bers of the leading Democrats , m
Buncombe and otner counties In the
west feel that they really need your
service to make the race against Mr
Britt. I recognize that you already
have a highly, honorable position and
may feel7 content with it. There is,
however, I think a real demand that
you make whatever sacrifice neces
sary to make the race for Congress.
If you agree with me that you are in
position to render unusual serviee to
your party and. are willing to yield to
the request of great numbers of your
friends, I trust you will permit Tne t
say that your announcement should
inidcate to your friends- that you real
ly wish the support of your friends
who may feel that you are -content to
stay where you .are and even though
you : should announce that you are
willing to submit to the wishes of the
Darty. there might be some feeling
that loyalty and fondness for you did
not require them to really work for
you ' when you were indifferent as to
whether you should change -your po
sition irom judge toCongressman. ' It
is my opinion that yott should state
your position to the public at an early
date., . - -. ..: - -
"This letter i3 prompted by sincere
friendship to you and great 'nterest
in - the Democratic party." .1' v
, . "Your friend, v -:-. :
v ; ; -J. Q. GILKEY."
Judge Justice ' in. replying: said : ' 7
"I have your esteemed favor of the
12th Instant. I appreciate the friend
ly sentiment that prompts it I have
had many letters and 7mny: urgent
requests to allow my ..name to be run
f oi; Congress 14 . tlie tenth district. ' I
want to take you. and the voters or tne
aa ::fA "nt
v.. - 7 ;
i am' not seeking the, nomination,
and am in nonsense' a' candidate for thJ
position; ; and would be .glad. If , the
party could see the way clear to nom
inate some one of the young men .who
are avowed'; candidates: ' "
"That fa one side of thfi" case. Ah-
other side is this : T have been a Dem ;
strve the party to
party to the best of my abil-
tv ThP nartv ha in return been
' tlie yeaRound
;4
you to . consider the advant-
dersTille - N, C
KESTATE ACTIVITIES
lilG TO BRIGHTEN
Several Big - Deals Closed During the
fivsr Two Weeks; Others Are '
4' ' Said to be Pending. c
- "Activity in the real estate market oi
V . , . -
ccydms - to a number of recent creals
transacted.:
' ;Messrs.' ' Stinspring and son have
sold tthe IL Patterson rock ' building
to Tf B;; Gibson, of McCall,,S. C. . . Mr.
Gison-bas sold his beautiful summer
on Willow' road to Miss4 Helen
r.M whit of Orlando, Fla, ... ' i
,.vaoun cume soia iast,wes bis iar
E: Poole
df Bridge water for-a consideration
said to be about around $12,000 cash.
- -W. E. Brown of Horse Shoe has sold
his farm to T; J. Powell of Gibbs, N.
C, for; $10,000. , This was was former
ly owned by R, -P. Freeman, v ,
GEORGIA GEOLOGIST EXPLAINS
RECENT EARTHQUAKE FELT HERE
Salff 'That it was Weakening of Crys
tallne Rock Beneath the Great
Piedmont Plateau. " 7
Nuinbers ' of . inquiries have been
made during , the past-two weeks at the
Hustler office for information as to the
recent earthquake, distinctly felt in
i""s section some nme ago. Alter
watching the put of town papers care- oculd thus be sooner brought togetr
ftilly the explanation of the earthquake I er by having-a common interest. At
was found in one of the bis daily pa- 1 this- suggestion -President Davis and
pers of Georgia in which Dr. W. S. Mc-j hie cabinet appointed" three commis
Callie, state geologist; gave as his be- sioners, Alexander H. Stephens,
lief that the shock was caused by the 4. Georgia, R. S. B, Hunter of Virginia,
weakening of the crystaline rock I and John Campbell, of Alabama, to
which underlies the Piedmont plateau, meet 'with President Lincoln and Mr
It is thought by him that a re-occur t Seward 'to : discuss : terms of peu
ance of the tremor will take place be- Pi esident Lincoln would not -consent
f oro long. It is said that the Georgia j for . the . commissioners sent by the
scientists have asked that a govern- Confederate Igovernment to c6me U
ment seismograph be installed in At- Washington. Cityr for that would beau
lanta. . r , acknowledgement of the Confederacy:
.-.w;
REMODELING STORES.
A new piate glass front is being
placed in J. O. Williams store oh Main ,
street When completed tnis win d&
one of the most modern fronts in the
city. r;
for business soon in the store room
formerly occupied by Black's barber
shop. An 'entire new front has been !
installed. Misg Nettie LeGrand, tne
proprietress will handle a fine line of
candies, fruits and ice cream."
'
COUNTY TEACHERS MEETING. , tnent. Stephen -W? Bloini oi 11
. Zm How -can any sane Person be expected
Interesting Program Arranred; Jtteet- to believe that any such proposltiou
ing Called far Saturday March 11. ;.vasmade by President Lincoln to the
The following will be therder 01 Confedei
exf rcises, at v the county teachers submitted -tb the Confederate govern-
meeUng on March 11th: -a-no . ent and rejected.by either. The cpn-
Address The County ;. Commence-.. ference was Informal, no. official re-1
ment C. -;E.-. Blackstock. - 1 - Ports were made of it It was short
Round Table Discussion How to and no praotical results.'-; " ' ' : .
make the coantyxommencem - the Ricond. - Dispatch oate l
tive, Leaders-. ;Athletic department February 8th. 1865, is this item: of
Roy Brown and .J- - Z 7
Department. Miss Hester Pitillo and "President Davis .yesterday submit-
R. F. PACE, resident commissioners. The report "Is. -brieui
uussiui wav 57J-i2icoin. offered no terms -'that could bH
trtct think it-mv duty tor run. for. Ccfh- noix or unconauionai submis- was the. last survlvthfir
eress.-and desire m fo-'.dd-'sC.mr10?-:- ' " : V v Z ZZ' ' :r Confederate Z. States. . I
ari let me know bv their aoUon at the vi tnas; neen; stated by - many, emi-; of Alexander Stenhena
primary. In" the' meantime, r trust : nent. men or tne Jsoutn that Mr. : Steph-- ever again, to Governor . Garland of
that my friends will not : expect me - to tQM them personally, that Mr Lin-1 Arkansas, to Senator Orr . of; South -make
any effort to' influence the action coin: said , "write Union, and 1 ; wil' Carolina, tb Representative Sexton of,
of the party in the primaries. The make :any 7 other terms you suggest,'; Txas and others, and. that' any such
people- know what .they . want and I ; and also told them that "he , woul j "ofter was made to the Commissioners,
shall leave them entirely free to 'ex; paj $400,0JH,000rfor the slaves of the. The matter was agitated evidently by
nress "tneir Will , wiuwui luvtsr-
ference. 7; I have confidence, tnat tney
om fiiliv finable -of managing their
own affairs ' " ; v r
yVi ootoom t
VV Itll BCUI.iUiv.ui. ui wvvv..,
ftin . ; 7 -- Ydur friend, - -
- . ; "M. H. JUSTICE.
1.00
LEADS ALL OPPONENTS BY NEAB
; LT JIILLION TOTES ; CONTEST
CLOSED : TUESDAY AFT. . Z-
MISS ERSON SECOND'
Little 3Iiss Jane. Treex Was ia Close
: Third and Beceive)! a Gold . -
v ; .", Bing Prize. r ?f
, The contest conducted by Maxwell
Cash Grocery,' Hawkins 'Jewelry Store
and Mutual Printing ;T Co. - closed !
promptly on "time Tuesday afternoon
at 4 o'clock when the Judges gather-
ed at ther Hustler office, and began the
work of counting the votes. ' John
Bishop was the winner of thel'diav
mond ring,, while Miss:-Oharlotte Erson
stood second and received: a beautiful
ring set with; heri.birthr'stOne. ;;;;:Little
Miss JaneTruex received' thei!ooby
prize..which was'a -neat gold ring; ; -
S The contest"! was' void of Zany 'unr
pleasant features ahd all the contest-;
ants seemed satisfied . witii hp;"TnaTi.
ner m wnich the contest was con-
ducted.
The following was the report of the
Judges: v 7;- ,r?' 7 : ; v"-:"7.;
Hendersonville, N. jC. Feb. 29, 1 916.
We the undersigned judges in- the
Diamond Ring contest conducted by
Maxwell Cash Grocery, store, W. H.
Hawkins & Son and The Mutual Print
ing Company have made a count of the
three leading contestants and -find
tbat . to the best of 1 our, knowledge the
results to be" .
Jno. Bishop.,
J jjss Erson. 'I
; ... 8,862,000 Votei
. .. ....8,015,000 Votes
.. .. . .7,323,000- Votes
J..C. MORROW, JR.,
E. -.H. DAVIS, .
R. J. ALDERMAN,
ZZ ;V- . . Judges.
Jane Truex. .
Signed.
IiiSTORICAL PROGRAM FOR; ? '
V T , MARCH MEETING U. D. Ci
Lia -r1'; ."-w- " - . : -
yi jittrgurei v iiayes r.navis t-napierj
Address rirom JIlss Mildred Ruth-
erf ord, Historian GeneraU . ,
; (Contributed.)
-The j first, patriotic ; organization ' for 'or ' a demonstration : and the bgin
women in the world was the Edenton ! ning of the fight to defeat the re-elec-
Tea Party in North Carolina. Fifty-
one women met at Mrs.. . Elizabeth
King's 7 home and. organized the
"Daughters pf Liberty" and resolved
to drink no tea nor -wear clothes that
came from England until the obnoxious
tax on tea was withdrawn.
. Hampton Boa4s Conference. ;
Lt us look into that. Hampton
Eoajds Conference. Mexico was giving
trouble in : 1865, and.JFrancis P. Blair,
Sr., conceived the idea that if peace
could be declared between the North
J and the South; and both armies march
i eu against Mexico the two sections
.- Therefore - it was ; agreed that it
should meet at Hampton Roades..Feb.
31865 President Lincoln and Mr. Sew
ard came on the "River Swan" to meet
the delegation from the COnfedertii
states. 7 v ,7-
Tne commissioners were given . no
) authority, to accept terms of uncondi-
r cognition of the Confederate States
Lincolhs only . terms were uncon
ditional surrender. Thero wa nn ;
Hussion about slaves, and payment for
them nor about Union, nor that other
. things would be granted.
Mr." -Steohens said in 1 a lAtteT tA. we'
listened to for a momehf in fact noth-I
i ah uuioij a vuji
or juoge tteag.ui s iesnmony reiuuns:
this; ! He was the last surviving mem-,
faer 'of the. Confederate cabinet and
wad nrespnt. when the nommis?sioners
jt .-, ,
made their . reports' I. have a copy of.
Cthc testimony of Senator Vest of. Mis :
- tu ouugress ine report or the near therptn n
PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE
-AFTER DISPELLING ; ALL "HA B-
IONYf EX'SENATOR. PBL'DOM-
; INATE COAYEJfTIOJf.: .
HOREHEAD BEATS DUNCAN
Congressman Britt" Elected Delegate
to National Convention ; Harkins
v Declines to Bun. -; 1 '
: Raleigh, - March. 1. The North Caj-
olina republican state, convention after
a session marked by heated debate and
turmoil, late today elected former Na- '
tional- Representative J. M. "Morehead
of Charlotte, as . national committee
man. The defeat for re-election of E.
v.. : cuiiuau, vl xviiitJign, was regaraea . ,
as ; marking the passing of - the older
; party . leaders in the state and the.
! placing of , the future destinies of the
Party ' into - the hands of - the younger
I element; The re-election of Duncan
j Aad been; " regarded unl yesterday :. i
j.as a mere formality and the strengch
'idevelODed bv ' the onnositinn an th ?
v outset was one or tne surprises of the
j convent jon. ; . The , fight waged against
United States Senator Marion7 Butler,
a widely , known adherent of Colone 1 .
Theodore Roosevelt, ' ' '
r The election of delegates to' the na-x
tional convention, the question wheth-:
er the delegation would be, instructed
or uninstructed, the! nomination of a
state ticket .and the adoption of a stato .
ntic . yuiaiuucu . Ulli.ll lUf
night session. -
:Z- :..t Convention in Uproar. t "
ThrougHout the day the, contention
was. in ah . uproar and all efforts of
leaders "to maintain order was - fruit -;
less.'-: - Delegates supporting Duncan
o 1 numerous occasions, threatened', to ,'
lea ve 1 the convention hall arid . wera
persuaded to remain only, through ef- ;
fvirts-of party leaders' who pleaded for k '
harmony o Tithe .ground Yiiat harmony
vtoWsthUinie
a republicans victory lrr-.NovmbeT; r4
' -An ; effort, -shortly after -, the? opening
c 7 the convention to : hominats eight '
delegates; to the national conTeiition, i-
ea en with' half' a vote, was the' signal
' tidri of Duncan. The proposal tonom-
inate; eight instead of four delegates,
nfn 1 it m n .
., iiaiicu uy vuncan opponents as a;
plan to take from - the state conven
tion the privilege ;of electing the na
tional .committeeman and invest it in
the delegates to the 7 national conven "
tion who, it was charged tn 'many-
quarter., would "railroad" the re-election
of. Duncan.
Tbtate (mairman Want A Tlnnn,,
som, of Greensboro, were re-elected-
by acclamation. The, re-election 'of - ;
Lmney meant his Gliminatirin no c
candidate for the nomination for " gov- ,
ernor as he had announced he would .
not seek the nomination if re-elected- -state
chairman. - -. : '
:- Delegates Named. ' ' - '
: Representative J. J; Britt, ' of th
Tenth, congressional: distriqt, Thomas -Settle,
of Asheville, J. S. Lewis, of '
Randleman, and W. S. O'B Robinson,'
ot Goldsboro, were nominated as dele-'
gates to the national convention ;' The
delegation will go to Chicago uninstructed.-,r
;:"V' '.'- - 7- 1
The proposals to '. defeat a state
ticket was defeated by a small mv .
jority; ; . -
Lanaioateswlll be nominated in the
regular primary to be held June 3.
- regards national questions the
platformradopted by acclamation a re
turn to protection, "preparedness for.
peace," and "honest" civil service sys
tem, -jural credit legislation restric
tion of immigration and the upholding
of the rights of American citizens
abroad.::.- - -v"
The platform denounced the "weak
and yascillating" policy of the aumiu-
Listration as regard the . upholding pf
- iha io-tit nf . "j- 1. '
j touro andlicla ttat -Scan
! prestige has ben lowered all over thr
globe" - ,
For the stite the nlatform ur-ed
a basis of econmy, auditing the stated
financial affairs, an improved school
system and , agricultural educational
method, the employment of convicts
.. oa: puolfc 'wbrk' general SroCTessi ve
, the. fish and oyster tadustry and the
repeal of the "unjust and harmful laws
nassed hr th W ierfRlatre in reear.f
! fiotiH - dptivfn that -Jinv. Ritr.h -tptu.ti.
wa. made by the, Commissioners. H
member of the
have , copies
denial over and
ueuiieg ui ricomcuiaiiBiu v.-
prejudice againsi .mm, . t
.Lincoln did propose an amendment
.to pay for slaves, but it was for the
iavpa ,'1n border States. . It never "
- . t .
reached Congress because of Lincoln s- -
death 7 ; - ; . ; '
