THE BARMS DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 298.
RARRE, VERMONT, THURSDAY, MARCH
1910.
PKICK. ONE CKXT.
FRESNES SCENE
OF NEW ATTACK
BY GERMANS
After Spirited Infantry As
sault in That Part of the
Woevre District They Suc
ceeded in Tenetrating
Some French Trenches,
but Paris Says They Were
Driven Out
"SOFT SOAP" ACTION
NOT ACCEPTABLE
TO ADMINISTRATION
OFFENSIVE DELIVERED
1 SOUTHEAST OF VERDUN
This Gives Color to Prevail
ing Military Opinion in
Paris That the Verdun
Offensive Was Merely
Halted Estimates of the
German Losses as High as
130,000
After a lull in infantry operations in
the vicinity of Verdun since the early
part of the week, there has been a re
. sumption of the German offensive in the
Woevre district. A violent bombardment
was followed by a spirited attack on the
French at Fresnes, 10 miles southeast of
Verdun. Paris reports driving out the
Germans from the few positions which
they succeeded in penetrating in their
assault. The new attack gives color to
the prevailing military opinion in Paris
that the German offensive at Verdun had
merely halted.
The estimates of German losses are
running high in entente quarters, one
from Paris to-day placing them between
125,000 and 130,000. All accounts from
German sources, however, have declared
the casualties of the attacking armies
were surprisingly small.
President Wilson and His Supporters
Want Nothing But Clear-cut Action
on the Armed Ships Issue,
Washington, 1). C, March 2. President
Wilson told Chairman Flood of tin Hoime
foreign affairs committee to-tluy that he
would consent to no compromise on the
armed ship issue and ho desired a direct
vote on a resolution warning Americans
aH the armed ships of belligerent nation.
Chairman Flood will deliver the presi
dent's message at a meeting of the com
mittees this afternoon.
Administration ollicials characterized
the iroowd vote of confidence as a "soft
simp" resolution to endorse the president
and at the same time to warn Americans
oir armed ship. "This is a clear-cut is
sue," said one administrative official,
"and wo do nut want it muddled."
In a talk with Chairman Flood, Presi
dent Wilson made it plain that he wants
the armed ship agitation disiioscd of once
and for all so it will not come up later to
emtutrrass diplomatic cngotiations.
Chairman Hood said later that he Imv
lieved gome resolution acceptable to the
president would be agreed upon in the
foreign affairs committee to-day.
CRUISER MOEWE
IS REPORTED
AS CAPTURED
had struck a mine south of Falsterbo,
Sweden, The crew waa rescued.
ITALIANS DEFIANT.
Intercepted Wireless De
spatches Are Said to Have
Stated That British Cruis
ers Have Caught the Ger
m a n Commerce Raider
That Has Been a Terror
to British Shipping '
MEAD-MORRISON CO.
HAS FIRE DAMAGE
FRENCH SACRIFICED
MEN IN VAIN CHARGE
German Official Report Says Their En
emy Tried to Retake Fort Douau
mont Situation oiTthe Front
Unchanged.
Iterlin, via London, Starch 2. The offi
cial German statement to-day says the
French sacrificed their men unsuccessful
ly in a counter-attack on Fort Douau
rnont. The situation on the Franeo-Hel-
gian front, the communication says, is
unchanged.
BABY KILLED BY SEAPLANE.
German Airship Bombed the Southeast
ern Coast of England.
Uindon, March 2. A German seaplane
lxtmbed a part of the southeast of Kng
land last night, according to an official
statement. A nine-nionth-old child was
killed. There was no military damage.
In $100,000 Blaze in Thickly Occupied
Section of Cambridge, Mass.,
Last Night.
Cambridge, Mass., March 2 Fire which
started in a coal shed of the Cambridge
Gas Light company, swept to other por
tions of the big plant and also threatened
the thickly populated tenement district
to the west of it last night. The loss
was estimated at $100,000.
The plant is situated between First
and Third streets, along the Charles
river front, and the flames had run near
ly the entire length of a tiOO-foot shed
before the liremen arrived. 1 lie glare
lighted up the river front for miles and
was visible from a great distance.
The big shed contained 7,000 tons of
soft coal and it burned rapidly. On ac
count of the headway that the fire liad
gained when discovered, officials ot the
company said that it wag impossible to
determine the cause. 1 lie root of the re
tort building, close to the sheds, caught
tire, but the streams poured on it saved
it from total destruction. Three large,
tanks filled with aas were only a short
distance away, and it Mas feared for a
tune that the llames would reach these.
From the gas plant flames leaped
across liroad canal, which runs at right
angles to the rivers, and attacked the
buildings of the Bay State Fuel company
and the pattern shop of the Mead-Morrison
company and a stone working es
tablishment. All these plants were dam
aged.
Hie entire fire fighting force of the
city was called out by a general alarm
and fire boats from Boston assisted.
Members of the newly organized Har
vard military regiment formed bucket
brigades and fought small (ires which
started from sparks on the roofs of
houses in the tenement district. Xone of
these houses were seriously damaged.
.Shortly after midnight it appeared the
firemen had leen successful in prevent
ing the fire from spreading beyond the
plant of the Mead-Morrison company and
the I5ay State Fuel company, and that
the loss suffered by these concerns would
be slight. The Mead-Morrison building
is used as a store house.
Albert M. Drown, president of the gas
company, estimated the Kiss on that
property at .$100,000.
SWEDISH SHIP LOST IN
SWEDISH WATER LIMIT
Ships Will Carry Armament Despite the
Central Powers' Deere. ,
Home, via Paris, March 2. The Italian
ambassador at Washington. Count Mac-
chi, has been instructed to notify the
American government that notwithstand
ing the German ami Austrian divrces re
garding the sinking of armed merchant
men, Italian merchantmen will continue
to rarry armament but the vessels will
use their artillery only lor defensive pur
poses.
I
VERMONT SPORTSMEN GATHERED,
The Knippla Was Sunk 800
Yds. Within Supposed Pro
tection but She Is Report
ed to Have Been Hit by a
Mine Commerce Raiding
Activity Marked
IUienos Aires, March 2. Press dis
patches from Montevideo sav that a
steamer arriving from Europe intercept
ed near the Brazilian coast a wireless
message stating that British cruisers had
captured the German auxiliary cruiser
Moewc,
There is some doubt as to the identity
of the German vessel, one version being
that it was the cruiser ltoon and not the Hale; Rutland, John Dugan; Washing
Annual Meeting of Fish and Game League
Held in Burlington.
Burlington, March 2. Vermont nim
rods, nature lovers and politiriane filled
to overflowing the dining room of the
Hotel Vermont last night at the banquet
which brought to a close the nud-win
ter meeting of the Vermont Fish and
I Game league. The sportsmen put in a
busy day, the morning session being de
voted to a discussion of legal points in
the fish and game code of the state,
many questions being answered by
State's Attorney T. K. Hopkins of this
city. Mr. McAtee of the L. .s. biological
survey ake on the work of his bureau.
At the afternoon session soveral hun
dred school children attended an exhibi
tion of moving pictures In the Strong
theatre at which birds and game in na
tural haunts were shown. At the an
nual meeting last night, the following
officers were elected t
President, J. W. Xiteomb of Lyndon-
ville; secretary, fMward. Connell of Lvn-
donville; treasurer, Charles Lowe of
Montpelier; vice presidents, W. II. War
ner of Vcrgennes, W, II. Bradford of Ben
nington, M. R. Proctor of Proctor, K. W.
Fisk of Isle LaMotta, II. J. M. Jones of
Montpelier. The executive committee,
one from each county follows: Addison,
W. K. Warner; Bennington, F. E. Howe;
( aledouia, . J. HigcJowj Chittenden, I).
A. Looniia; Essex, ' H. D. Marshall;
Franklin. J. Gregory Smith;-Grand Isle,
John Robinson; lyamoille, J. E. Stevens;
Orleans, L. W. Kinsley; Orange, J. F.
DELINQUENTS
NOTBARREDON
REFERENDUM
Supreme Court Holds That
. a Freeman Need Not Have
Paid His Taxes in Order
to Vote on State Primary
Law and the State Prohi
bition Law on March 7
QUINCY CUTTERS
PASS RESOLUTION
TO STAND TOGETHER
MATTERS ARE STATE
ISSUES, NOT LOCAL
Judge Watson Handed Down
Opinion, and He Was Con
curred With Unanimously
in the Case of Thomas W.
Martin vs. the Brookfield
Board of Civil Authority
Moewe, The cruiser is said to have been
taken by her captors to the Island of
Trinidad.
BRITISH SMACKS,
ONE ITALIAN SHIP
Crews of the Three Belonging to British
Were Landed After Their Vessels
Went Down in the North
Sea.
London, Miireh 2. The sinking of four
vessels was reported to-day. The crews
of three British smacks were landed at
Lowestoft. Their vessels are said to
have been sunk in the North sea. The
Italian sailing vessel Elisa is also re
ported sunk.
173 PASSENGER SAIL
ON ARMED SHIPS
$100,000 FIRE IN BROCKTON.
London. March 2. A correspondent in
inn unnamed coast town sends the fol
lowing:
"Shortly after 6 o'clock in the evening
a German aeroplane flying in a westerly
direction passed over the southeast coast.
Several liouibs were dropped, killing one
child and breaking some windows. The
houses in this district arc very scat
" tered and the damage done was slight.
"It was already dark when the raider
appeared and his previous and subse
quent movements are unknown.
EMPEROR RETURNS HOME.
William is Said to Have Left the West
ern War Front.
London, March 2. The German em
peror left the Verdun front and returned
to Germany Tuesday, according to a Rot
terdam dispatch to the Daily Mail.
LOWELL MAN SLAIN
IN HIS GREENHOUSE
Albert Roper's Body Found Last Night,
Just a Week After His Death Had
Been Reported in Boston
Flower Market.
Public Market Building Was Damaged
Last Night.
' Brockton, Mass., March 2. Fire, dam
aged the four-story building occupied by
the Brockton public market to tin
amount of SKMI.OOO last night. Alxnc
the first floor there are many offices am:
several club rooms, all of the occupants
of which escaped without difficulty. The
building is owned by U. E. James and
Embert Howard. The loss on the market
stock is estimated at JT.'i.OtMi.
ALLEGED SWINDLER BACK.
John Grant Lyman to Face Charge in
Federal Court.
There Were Two Italian-Born American
Citizens on the Verdi, Which Left
New York Despite German Order
to Attack Armed Mer
chant Ships.
New York, March 2. The Italian
steamship Guiseppe Verdi, the first armed
ton, L. II. Greene; Windham, II. C. Rice;
Windsor, Charles Downer.
At the banquet, the principal speaker
was George I). Iratt, director of the New
York Zoological society, also state con
vent ion commissioner and national treas
urer of the Bov Scouts, who gave a lee
ture on wild life illustrated bv motion
pictures of his camp in Nova Scotia
during the day.
He spoke of the work of conserving for
est and animal life in New York. The
law making it illegal to shoot deer with
horns uiuler three inches has also con
served human life, he said. He stated
that New York wishes to cooperate with
Vermont in planting white fish in Lake
Ihamplain; 5.0O0.IKK) white fish will be
put into the lake next year, according to
present plans.
William rmlev, state biologist of Ore
gon, showed reels of pictures depicting
wild life In hi stse and methods used
to protect birds. John W. Bumham gave
an illlustrated lecture on "An Alaska
Yukon Trip."
75 NEW NAMES ADDED
To
vessel to leave American shores since the
new Austro-Gerniirn submarine policy
went into effect, sailed from here late
yesterday for Naples and Genoa
She carried among her 173 passengers
two Italian-born American citizens
the steerage. The Verdi had mounted on
her after deck the two naval guns with
which she was equipped two months ago.
Before sailing popper airtanks were fitted
into her lifeboats.
SINKING OF THORNABY
WAS BEFORE ORDER
Lowell, Mass., March 2. Albert Roper,
aged years, a successful florist living
on Pleasant street, Tewksbury Center,
was murdered last night in one of his
greenhouses lietween the hours of 9 and
10 o'clock. He was found by one of his
sons at 10 o'clock lying in an aisle in
one of the ereenhouses with the top of
his head split open, the blow presumably
hating been struck by some blunt instru
ment, possibly a piece of pi)".
The body had been dragged to the
place it was found from an adjoining
room. The murderer is unknown, but
his object is thought to have lieen rob- j
bery, as Mr. Roper was aiviiwtomed to
curry a considerable amount of money
in bis clotliing, and the pocket in which
he w known to carry bis money was
turned inside out.
Mr. Rojter wa lat seen alive at about
! o'clock. He had been puking carna
tion in the greenhouse and one of his
sons mw him leave to go to one of the
village More to ,y t.,h.-.-o. He re
turned to the greenhouse without being
seen bv his nn.
A peculiar incident in connection with i tent" and that he
the murder i thai about a wek aro it to oust the receiver.
New York, March 2. John Grant Ly
man, who was arrested several days ago
at St. Petersburg, Fla., where he fled
from this city February 8, after the dis
covery of an alleged oil stock swindle,
said to have netted him more than !?.'iOO,-
(MM), was returned here last night in the
custody of government agents. Deputy
U. 8. Marshal W. I). Vinzant of Florida,
who accompanied the party, declared
Lvman confided in him on the way here
that if he eould have operated six weeks
longer as "John H. Putnam & Co." he
would have "cleaned up a million dol
lars." Lvman, who it is believed" was
about to leave for Spanish Honduras on
a motor boat when be was apprehended,
boasted that persona throughout the
country who sent their money to him
for investment were above the average
in intelligence and that . "it was a pleas
ure to him to know that he got the best
of them," according to Vinzant.
Lyman was locked up in the Tombs.
He will be arraigned in federal court on
an indictment charging illegal use of the
mails. His wife accompanied him here
from Philadelphia, where she went ear
lier in the day. She was permitted to
sit with him during the two-hour jour
ney. Lyman is quoted as stating that his
disappearance from New York a not 1
due to f.t"ffice inspectors' inetig-j
tion of Putnam A Co.. but fo the facl'ditT. Wale
that (iorham Tufts of j Angles. w ho j
was on his bond of J2o.ishi when he fled '
from the California city two year ae"
after tsing convi.tcl there in a Nnd I
fraud, was on his tracks, and secret erv- J
ice nu n were trailini a ehan;Teur lr- j
merly in his employ in the hope of learn- I
1
Moreover. British Steamship Was Not
Victim of Submarine Attack But
Was Hit By Mine.
London, March 2. Lloyd's agent at
P.lythe reports that the British steamer
Thornaby, reported sunk in the North
i, struck a mine on Monday.
Yesterday's dispatches did not make it
clear whether the Thornaby struck a
mine or was torpedoed, or whether the
sinking occurred before the new German
submarine campaign became effective at
midnight Tuesday. Almost all the crew
were killed or drowned, the dispatches
said.
18 RUSSIAN SEAMEN
LOST THEIR LIVES
When Steamship Alexander Wentiel Was
Sunk Eleven Other Members of
Crew Were Saved.
' London, March 2. The Russian steam
ship Alexander Weut.el ha ls-en sunk.
Barre Checklist Last Night Last
Chance to Register To-night.
Voters who have thus far failed to reg
ister in anticipation of the elections next
Tuesday will be given a final opportunity
to appear before, the board of civil au
thority this evening at 7 o clock. Seven
ty-five new names were added to the
checklist last night, additions predomi
nating in a total of 120 changes made by
the nine members of the board who as
sembled to hear the petitions. F. G.
Howland presided and the number of ap
pearances nearly equalled the record
made at the first meeting last week. It
is interesting to note that a majority of
those who ay-ked to liave their names in
serted in the list for the first time are
men who have recently acquired their
citizenship papers, although there was a
likely showing of native-born young men
who have attained their majority since
the last March elections.
Pursuant to the suggestion that the
ruling set forth in the city charter,
wherein young men who have become of
age since April 1, 1015, and have not1
paid taxes are not eligible to vote, is in j
conflict with an amendment to the pub
lie statutes, wherein young men of tins
lass are given the franchise on local is
sues, the board decided to give the voters
the benefit of the doubt. Hence it fol
lows that all male persons who attained
the age of 21 after April 1, 1915, even
though they were not liable to taxation
in 191o, are to have the privilege of vot
ing on all issues next Tuesday.
Two changes to the slate of ward off!
cers prepared last week were made last
night. In the third ward John H. Bishop
and Alexander Dowers are to serve as
ballot clerks instead of Joseph M. Nelson
and Willian McDonald.
lo-nighi indicia l notice is to be taken
of the fact that the supreme rourt, in a
lecision just handed down, holds that
the extension of the franchise to all de
linquent voters on state issues is legal.
In an opinion handed down last night,
the Vermont supreme court decided that
the right to vote on the state prohibi
tion law and the state primary law at
the March election next Tuesday does
not depend on the payment of taxes;
and hence those who are delinquent in
paying taxes are not to be barred from
voting on those two referendums. Attor
ney General II. G. Barber had expressed
the opinion that the right to vote was
dependent upon the payment of taxes on
or before February 15, last. . '
The opinion which was written by
Judge John H. Waton and' which was
concurred in unanimously is based on tho
prediction that the refereiiduui of the
primary law and the prohibition law to
the voters of Vermont is not a local is
sue but was intended for the voters of
the state as a whole. The court inti
mates that to debar part of the free
men of Vermont from voting on the two
laws migltt be an infringement upon the
1
Vote Said to Have Been Taken in Order
to Prevent a Separation Like
That Which Occurred
in Barre.
Quimv, Ma., March 2. At a lueetiiia
of the gianite Glitters' union yesterday,
the following committee was chosen to
confer with a committee from the manu
facturers' asoociation with a view to
drawing up a new agreement in place of
the bill which expired I ucsday night
and which expiration caused a suspension
of work; James F. Rcid, Lorctto Toed,
Matti Kaukola, James Kelley pud Angus
Kerr.
In view of the stories that have been
circulated about dissension among niem-
lers of the union, an Italian member of
fered a resolution that in the present
trouble all factions stand together and
that no division of opinion exist between
the nationalities, so that there would he
no repetition of the Barre, Vt., affair.
This resolution was carried by a unani
mous vote, with over 1,000 members at
tending the meeting.
hen the mens committee meet the
manufacturers, an offer for a three-year
agreement will lie made. If the manufac
turers do not care to accept that propo
sition tho men, it Is said, will seek a five
year agreement and will accept no other
alternative.
Business men throughout the city can
not understand why the difference of
one year should la; allowed to tie up the
entire granite industry. It seems to be
the consensus of opinion among business
men not connected with the granite
trade that peace for a long term of years
is the preferable alternative.
CHILD'S BURNS
CAUSED. DEATH
Mary Cano's Suffering Was
Brought to an End
To-day v
SHE FELL INTO PAIL
OF SCALDING WATER
350 OUT AT MILF0RD.
LOVE RIVALRY BETWEEN GIRLS
Is Said to Have Caused One to Write
Obscene Postcard.
Ruilinijton. March 2. The testimony
of the defendant in the ene of Hattie E.
constitutional rights of the voters.
though admitting that the constitutional
matter was not raised in the ease of
Thomas W. Martin vs. C. P. Fullam and
others of the Brookfield board of civil
authority which was argued in supreme
court Monday and on which the opinion
was presented.
ahe direct result of the opinion is to
grant to the said Martin of Brookfield
the right to vote on the two referendums
in question; and it is probable that the
boards of civil authority in all other
towns will follow the same course.
The opinion in full is as follows:
The Opinion.
"Thomas W. Martin vs. C. P. Fullam
and other memliers of the board of civil
authority of tho town of Brookfield,
opinion y Justice Watson.
Each, the primary act and the pro
hibitory act, is a public law relating to a
public subject affecting alike the entire
state. The subject matter of each is one
in which, from a legal standpoint, the
people of the whole state are equally in
terested. Each act has become a law to
take effect at a future time irrespective of
what the result of the vote on the ques
tion submitted by the referendum may
be, but the time of taking effect is con
tingent upon the result of such a vote.
The subject matter of each enactment is
of such public importance that the legis
lature in its w isdom deemed it advisable
in this manner to ascertain the real pub
lic opinion concerning the act, and upon
that public opinion as it may be. ex
pressed in the wav provided for was
made, to depend which of the two times
specified in the act shall take effect.
Such, in short, being the nature and
importance of the act, was it the inten
tion of the legislature to get such an ex
pression of opinion by vote of all the
freemen of the state, all of whom are
equally interested therein, or was it the
intention of the legislature to get such
an expression of opinion from those only
who by law are entitled to vote in town
meetings on matters relating exvlusivcly
to the town or city in which the votes
are given? If the latter and not the for
mer was the intention, then it was the
purpose of the legislatiye to get an ex
pression of opinion concerning the two
public acts of state-wide interest and im
portance, from a portion only of the free
men of the state, excluding from the
privilege of expressing such an opinion a
portion of the freemen because and only
lecause, they failed to comply with a
law affecting so far as the individual
freeman is concerned the interest of the ,
Disagreement in Granite Industry is Over
a Few Points.
Milford, NT. II., March 2.The granite
quarries and cutting plants are closed
pending the signing of a new agreement
to replace the bill which terminated Feb
ruary 29.
Thirty quarries and cutting plants are
affected. In the granite cutters union
including blacksmiths and polishers, l'.W
men arc out, and ldO of the quarrvmen a
union are off duty. They began drawing
strike pay of $1,2.) a dav on Wednesday,
When the spring business opens the total
number of men will normally be about
5(H). The paving cutters are not affected
at present, their agreement having an
other year to run.
It is understood that the disagreement
in on a few articles concerning pay and
working conditions.
Child's Mother Nearly Pros
trated Over the Occurrence
Death came at 8; this mom-
ing to end the u(TeNc of little Mary
Cano, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
Cano of (ill Granite street, who suffered
horrible bums as the. result of falling
into a pail of hot water at her home
Sundar afternoon. The child's death oc
curred at the City hospital, whither she
was hurried soon after the accident. From
the outset the little girl's condition was
critical, although yesterday there ap
peared to le a change for the better, a
change which inspired the hope that the
child would survive the fearful scalding.
1 he Cano child was two years and two
months old. Besides her parents, she
leaves an infant brother, Joseph Cano,
jr., who is three months old. The child s
mother is nearly prostrate over the
tragedy responsible for her daughter's
death.
Funeral services are to bo held at the
house Friday afternoon at 2 o'clock and
interment is to be made in the Catholic
cemetery on Beckley street.
FUNERAL AT ST. MONICA'S.
Concord, N. H, Cutters Ask New Bill
C'oncowl, N. H., March 2. Local gran
ite manufacturers and cutters will be in
terested in the announcement of the
strike in the trade which went on
Quincy, Mass., yesterday. In Concord
the cutters are working under the old bill
of prices, which does not expire until
May 1. The cutters, however, have filed
notice of changes desired in the bill on
that date and the situation here will de
pend somewhat on settlement obtained
in other granite centers.
J
HARDWICK GRANITE
JNDUSTRY HUMMING
All the Firms In That Village Signed
Agreement with Their 'Men and
There Was No Suspension
of Labor.
Information from Hardwick to-dav
stated that the whole granite industry in
tliat place is working -under a new bill
and that there was no suspension of
work following the expiration of the old
agreement at midnight Feb. 2!l. This
condition includes the Woodbury Granite
Co., as well aa the others m the village,
a total of SoO men being affected.
The new bill calls for $4 a day for the
cutters, and the other sections of the
agreement almost identical with the
Barre bill. Furthermore, the bill w ill ex
pire at the same time as the Barre bill,
w hich will be March 1, 1920. The bill, as
signed, will make a large increase in the
payroll of the industry, it being estimat
ed by an official of the Woodbury Gran
ite Co. that the increase for his company
alone will be .$100,000 a year. The Bethel
end of the Woodbury Granite Co. has
not yet come to a settlement with its
employes. General Manager Clifford is
away at the present time, but it is ex
pected that on his return an agreement
will be reached at Bethel.
For William E. Carroll. Formerly of
Barre, Who Died at Kearny, N. J.
The funeral of William E. Carroll, a
former resident of Barre, whose death
occurred in Kearny, N. J., Saturdayeven
ing, was held in St. Monica's church this
morning at 0:30 o'clock. Rev. P. M. Mc
Kenna of St. Monica's parish qfficiated
at the services and the bearers were as
follows: John Carroll, Henry Carroll,
Arthur Carroll, John Riley, John Marrion
and Francis Grady. Interment was made
in the Catholic cemetery on Beckley
street.
GRANITE FIRMS IN DEAL.
BLAME IT ON WIRES.
Small Blaze in Mrs. George Robertson's
House on Thomas Street.
Defective Insulation is ascribed as the
cause of a second-story fire in the resi
dence of Mrs. George Robertson of Thom
as street, near the west extremity of
Rlackwell street, tins morning. A loss of
particular town or city in which he re- j$.0 is covered by insurance carried in the
sides. ' j.L W. Dillon agency. A general alarm
"While it may not be a constitutional ! from box 14.1 at the corner of Blackwell
privilege to vote upon these two ques-iand Center streets brought three pieces
tions submitted by the legislature, it of fire apparatus within hailing distance
would not be going far astray to say: of Mrs. Robertson's door. The alarm
that w hen such an expression ot opinion , sounded at i :.s o clock, hut previously
bv way of referendum is provided for by j neighbors had rallied to the householder's
the legislature it lieenmm a public priv-jaid and were fighting the flames with
reinen ar-
DeRegibus Granite Co. Buys Rizzi Bros.
Plant Stephen Rizzi May Build.
A transaction involving two well
known Barre granite manufacturing con
cerns, the one a plant where pioneer
Italian manufacturers have long carried
on operation and the other one of the
newer Italian firms in the Barre belt, was
consummated to-day when the DeRegi-
lius t.ranite Co. purchased the plant ot
Rizzi Bros, on Blackwell street. In con
nection with the deal it is announced that
the co-partnership in the DeRegibus
Granite Co. is increased from three to
four, the new member being Arthur Rizzi,
son of Stephen Riziii of Rizzi Bros. The
original three partners are Biagio Mani-
ni, rietro DeKegibus and Alberto Borg-
hi.
For the time-being .Stephen Rim ex
pects to have operating quarters in the
lant wliicli he has sold. He will main
tain a crew of men at work, although it
is reported that he contemplates the
erection of a modern granite manufac
turing plan in the near future. When .
interviewed by a representative of The
limes to-day. Mr. Rizzi did not discredit
the rumor that he is to build, although
he stated that he would he doing busi
ness at the old stand for the present, at
least. It is known, however, that he has
been ambitious for some time to have
his manufacturing business located in a
plant adequate to the class of heavier
monumental work that is being demand
ed by his customers. In many years of
association w ith the granite industry in
Barre, .Mr. Rizzi bad built for the con-
rn known as Rizzi Bros., a reputation
r the carved work. In conjunction with
the demand for this class ot work, there
has grown up a widespread call among
his customers for heavier memorials.
The Blackwell street plant figuring in
the transaction, is sometimes referred to
as the Milne, Clarihew & Gray shed, for
as such it was known when Mr. Rizzi
started in business for himself in HHtO.
Two years later he formed a partner
ship with his brother, Mario Rizzi, whose
death occurred in Italy in 1012. In 1905,
Rizzi Bros, purchased the Blackwell
street property and after the death of
Mario Rizzi, his brother continued in tho
business alone.
HURLED AGAINST GIRDER.
Moses airainst .lame K. Howe was all
put in y esterday ami the opening argil-i ilege of the" freemen of the state to ex-j buckets of water w hen tiie
mi lit were given. The defendant moved ' ereise the right of expression of opinion ; ried. Hand chemicals were employed
for a erdict on each of the three counts thereon. If it niav properly le classed as effectively in extinguishing a t'lae that
in the cae and the motion was allowed ' such a privilege, then to deny a freeman I had communicated from the ceiling in
Eighteen of the crew were drowned and'"" f'e first count and denied on the hist 'the right to vote thereon in the manner j the second story of the attic. The all
1 1 w ere r-c
uel.
The Wentzel was last refsirtcd at Car
Jan. J3.
SWEDISH STEAMER
two. The arguments will probably he i given to otber freemen of the state forjout was given at H:W o'lkwk
completed to-day and the case mav get i some reason not recognized by the in-
to the jury before night. I.titution. raises the grave question
Anna liarhary of North ( liamplain j w bet her hi const ittitional rights are not
fleet, a young lady of U'l vear. wa ar- infringed. Set tion 31 of the M.itc constl
rete.J by Ifcputy lnite.1 State Marshal ' tution provides that every man of the
Thonns Reeve yesterday morninir on an i full age of twenty-one year and having
j indictment found bv the grand iurv Of the other qualifications speemed therein.
ICllM Uf 311 t 'the pre-ent term of I'nite.l Mte court. land who shall take the oath of affirm
Mr. Robert Mn and her family re
turned to Barre lat night, after passing
the greater part of the winter in l,uin
cv. Mass. The brue was re-opem-d on
Montpelier Man Had Face Cut When Hia
Horse Ran Away.
John Pecherio, a Montpelier man, was
injured painfully to-day when he was
thrown from his sleigh by the runaway
horse and hurled head first against an
iron girder of the Granite street bridge
in Montpelier. He was taken to Heaton
hospital, where it was found that his
face was badly cut by contact with th
girder, but the man is expected to recov
er in a short time. Pecherio's horse was
frightened by an automobile.
FORMER RESIDENT OF M0RET0WN.
William Hill Died at Son's Home at
Waterbory Center.
Waterhury. March 2. William Hill
ilied thi morning at the home of bin son.
ing hi w herealwMit
PostofTi e iiisjM-ctor who went to Kb r
ids to get the fugitive Mr he irff-te1
to them that Putnam 4 Co.. was "..-
ould mke a fct Mok!iobn. i ia ln.!on. March 2. It
He also told tfcrm. I s ln learned fiat t'se e,i.li Mean-
IT.e Knippla Went Down Inside of Lim
its of Swedish Waters Her Crew
Was Rescued.
! The m lirtmert cliarge t'
!liviii2 w nt n!f, bi' litfff.tui
her arrival nd a fire was Itmlt in the j l;PV. Wiltwir K. Hill, at Waterhury Cen
furnace. But the outbreak, however, i ! ter, alter aruiHru-ss w ith bronchial pneu
not thought to hoxe tn-en due t . defee j monia. The funeral will tie held from
tive stovepipe or chimney. Instead, ti e ' the parsonage at the t enter Saturday
girl with ! tion there following, 'shall .nt it fed to "rae wemr-i m mii.-riu.ui an . i.fin.- ; morning at I" n el. k. an.) the burial will
t,miih ' all the trix Hog.- oi a treenian o! tM ........-.. -,-rn , ,. t .(1ti?ii inixiairr.
! the mails. It w.-m to bo a ra" w heie j state." While n ion
st.tiitionaj qj.-stior overlay in the eeil.na the fire went thej
eument. and we do, ''"""' b ngth of I'.e room. Mnoke an.!M(
Mr. Hill wa horn in Iwr!l. Ma.. 73
wa reponen in ine iwwton poorer Mar-they aael. tful on.e. "alien he w fin
ket that Mr. R per w .?e I and ahonet br ker." te w . 1. an.-1 .,t oj a
wreath was si.t t the hou-e sWt?T fort-ine of . ;'. He I'm Iwim '
afterward. " nrt of gt r Kb -.junk, oj-eratot"", . fc
an-t'er pot took a oilier frier..! awar'waa presented in argument, and we .!.''""'" neth ot I'.e room. Mnoke an.. ,ear ago ht't July but be lived for
from tl'e I'arWv gir! snd in tryirj tinot decide the one .iigg.-te,!, (.fill the -- - -" ,- llinv yer n M.reto-n. w nere ne.ioi-
win biny ba.k fHe girl write orne t' insr ' prh ilrgea there guaranteed are not to be r'"n ",,', constitute the pun- j wrd the oecii.tion of cooper. Recent-
ow a pot! cord anont her rival whshilost tight of. in determining the question ;r'I"' " ' ly I had luel with hi son at the Cen-
M r t rn I the t-t of the Joral pt -! M -re rZVis ter and with imn otfer son in er
n" re. 11:e g.rf w taken Uf..re .I' 'r i h of the acts e-f t!5 proiide t'.at i Clerks Notice. jHamj-hire. H wife. Ih waa Carotin
1 in the '!..! and w .'Tvte. ihf lll"t rleik, board of civil authority' There wiU te a f x i',.r mating of tie m'. di.-d IS nr ag. The three Mil
to l. I w t e h 'e lim 'red. nl her U. '. I. I. .-, l 211. friday. Mar.a 3, are V,,. ilbur F, -'a..n, and Irving
A li-paWh U Feb. -9 sael the KnifpU c- u cn. t -o je L 'Ctit iiiiW n eath X1) ,l F- l',r '"" Kec Sec. II !L t
it KnippU a ur k !nt io j jr i in
side ti e limit of ae.hsh wafer.
