HE CLAY
CITI
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, FEwSSSJTCS, 1916.
NO. 8.
BIG MONDAY
T
ii
HPT
TON
ABOUT THAT BAND
Next week promises to be the big
gest week in Clayton of the spring
season. In the first place it is the
first Monday in the month, or BIG
MONDAY. It is a great and good
habit that the' people of the county
andNcounry surrounding have of coin
ing to town on the First Monday of
the monthsand there understand that
their neighbors, such of them as 'do
not get to town every week or often
er, come, and will be seen in Clay
ton on that day. It is this day that
the wide-awake business farmer gets
to town with his fine chickens, cows,
or hogs, where buyer and seller get
together, not only in the stores but
everywhere there is some one who
has something to sell and someone else
who has something to buy. We look
forward to this day as the one on
, which we can sell what we have to
scll or buy what we have to buyJ
Now this Big Monday is not to end
with Monday but to continue all
through the week. This is court week
and we are not sure as to how long
it will last, may be two or three
"weeks, but there is to be a great gath
ering in Clayton next week and every
body and his brother will be here.
The merchants are wide-awake to this i
and are bringing to you, Mr. Buyer,
through the columns of your County
Paper, the very things that you are
in heed of and this is the very time
to look carefully over your papers
before coming to town. Do some of
your shopping before you come, and it
will not take you so much time when
you get here. It will surprise you
how much shopping, real shopping,
you can do in your county paper. Our
columns are full of good things for
you. Our merchants have dope' their,
best i.u roach you and tell you of the
quality, of their wares. Stady your
paper carefully, then come to town
(and don't forget to come) and you
will nut regret the time that you spent
in informing yourself before starting
on your buying campaign.
Big Monday will be a real big day
and maybe it will be a big week. Meet
us in Clayton, on the day and date
aforesaid.
President Wilson on Advertising
Contained in the following letter to
the President of the Associated Ad
vertising Clubs of the World.
The White House
October 11, 1015
My dear Mr. Houston:
Advertising is a factor of constant
ly increasing power in modern busi
ness, and it very vitally affects the
public in all its phases, particularly
since the mediums for the dissemina
tion of advertising have increased so
remarkobly in recent years. For busi
ness men, therefore, it is of the ut
most importance that the highest
standards should be applied to ad
vertising as to business itself.
The country is to be congratulated
on the work of the Associated Ad
vertising Clubs to establish and en
force a ode of ethics based upon can
did truth thai shall govern advertis
ing methods, and the effect of its work
Should be of the greatest benefit to
the country. It nngiirs permanence
and stability In industrial and dis
tributive methods, because it means
good business judgment, and more
than that, it indicates a fine concep
tion of public obligation on the part
of men of business, a conception that
is one of the inspiring things in our
outlook upon the future of national
development.
Cordially and sincerely yours,
WOODROW WILSON,
o
Mr. Chas. Hovey, an old time friend
from across the Panhandle, and one
of the staunch young business men
and farmers of the Barney country,
was a city visitor on Tuesday and
Wednesday of the week and took din
ner with "Ye Editor" on Wednesday.
J. I. Case, Racine Jr. Lister is the
best on the market. For sale by H,
Herzstein Seed Co. tf.
TO OUR CUSTOMERS
Sometime during the next week you will receive a state
t of the amount due on subscription. The statement will
also contain a sufficient amount to set your subscription ahead
for a reasonable length of time. We have been to a great deal
of expense since coming here in order to make for you as
subscriber and for the city and country at large a better
CLAYTON CITIZEN. As to what extent we have made a suc
cess in this matter, you . ave the judge. We are willing to
leave it up to you. Among our heaviest expense has been the
purchase of our new Linotype - machine. It would be utterly
impossible for us to give you anything like the paper that we
are and take care of our ever increasing job and ad work
without the aid of ' this machine. It not only makes for effi
ciency in the matter of caring 'for our work, in saving of time
and labor, but it is much to your credit too, as it gives to
you, at your disposal, the SERVICE of an up-to-date news and
job office where your orders can be handled with dispatch, and
this, to you, to the community is worth a great deal.
There are three7 distinct departments to the newspaper
proposition. The one is the Job Department, another the Ad
vertising Department, and the other the Circulation or sub
scription department. Each is distinct within itself. Let us ex
plain. If you were raising wheat, oats and corn on your farm
and you had to take from your profits, if any, your wheat and
oats each year to pay the expense, get me, the expense of cul
tivating the corn crop, how long would you continue to raise corn?
If our merchants were to take from one or two departments of their
business to pay the expense of keeping up the others, or some one
feature of their business, how long do you suppose, if he was an up-to-date
business man such as wc'eere in. Clayton.,, that he wquld
continue to carry in stock some fine of goods or some department of
his work that was an expense to him, or that yielded him no return?
Not very long. You get the point. There is naught but folly for one
to think of conducting modern business along these lines. This be
longs to an age long past. Our manner and methods of doing busi
ness are up to the minute, in this day and age, and every successful
business man runs his business according to some fixed plan and sys
tem. He must do it in order to be able to compete with his fellow
man.
Now here is the whole thing in a nut shell. Our subscription
department is in mighty bad shape. It came to us just as it is. We
don't want to bore you. This is the first word we have said about
delinquency. We don't want to be forever nagging away through
the columns of the paper on delinquents. We wont. On the other
hand, we want and must have the money, and we believe that you
will meet this promptly, as a business man would meet any other
just obligation.
We believe that you appreciate the paper. We know that we
appreciate your patronage, in every department of our newspaper
work. We hope and believe that our future associations shall
be as mutually agreeable as has the past. With best wishes for the
success of every subscriber, for a greater Union county, and a bigger
and better. Clayton, I am,
Very respectfully,
1 HE EDITOR.
And WHAT about that band?
It has been our impression for some
time that Clayton should and could
have the best band in this or any .
other rart of the stato. That we have
the material here is not a question at
v r.h us no v, f ir since we tculc
a little time to "navigate" around, we
made a catch of about twelve or fif
teen band men, experienced men, on '
the very first drag and which indi- '
cates that if we go after it with the '
vim characteristic of our city in do- '
ing things, we shall be able to get '
together a mighty good substantial
bunch of fellows that will do credit '
to the city and themselves .as well. ;
We need such an institution and wo ;
have no fear a( all but tfent business' )
men of the town and in fact every '
good citizen would give all tho neces
sary support, both fiimneM ond other
wise, to bring this organization about
and keep it in a good going way. A
concert given an evening or two dur
ing the week would be beneficial to
the town in more ways than one.
We would like to hear from the local '
talent on this question and if you '.
are interested, come in and say so, '
and let someone call a meeting and we
will get together. "Yours truly"
learnetto carry a horn some time
since, and if we can stall along and
assist the boys in making up for num
bers, we can go again. We want to
see a band in Clayton and will give
it all the support of personal assist
ance and publicity necessary to put
it going.
CONDENSED WAR NEWS
F. II. Clark to Mineral Wells
Mr. F. H. Clark, our telephone man
ager, has been trouDiea in no smau
way for the past several weeks with
rheumatism. The trouble came, pro
bably, as a sequence to his fall of a
short distance from a telephone pole
on which he was working. This caus
ed him to give up his work for a few
clays and he seemed to be recovering
nicely when he became affected with
that most peculiar of all maladies,
rheumatism. That something that
hits you here, gives you a jab there,
goes running up and down your spine,
your limbs, ow stopping here, now
there, and then, some time, just as
unexpectedly as it came, gradually
leaves you and is gone. -
He left Sunday for Mineral Wells,
Texas, where he will remain for some
time, or until he shall feel himself
sufficiently convalescent to return.
0
Dr. S. A. Bright Coming
s
Dr. S. Alonzo Bright, District Supt.
of the M. E. church, will make his reg
ular visit to the church at this place
on Saturday and Sunday, March 11
and 12. On Saturday night at eight
o'clock, he will be the guest at a
Methodist Men's Banquet, to be held
at the Pullman Cafe. All men and
friends of the church are cordially
invited to be present.
' 0
Mr. Harmon Fox of Des Moines, was
a city visitor the first of the week
New Speed Record Made on Wireless
Chicago, Feb. 29. A speed of 200
words a minute, said to be a high
speed record for wireless transmis
sion, has been accomplished by the
wireless station at the Great Lakes
Naval Training school, North Chicago
through the use of a transmitting re
ceiving machine at a private station
here, it was announced today.
Thirty words a minute has been
considered a fast record previously
according to officials at the station.
o
M. L. Sovil, one of the leading cit
izens of the Sedan country, was i
city visitor on Tuesday of this week,
Hftldsworth can put that watch of
"Tri" the' ' crPnt ' WiTp tvulrlnu!
around Verdun, in which half a mil
lion men are engaged between the
Champagne and Neuville to the the
west, the fortified works of Hardu
mont, to the east of fort Douaumont,
have been captured by the Germans.
Rerlin also claims to have captur
ed the Cote de Talou, to the west of
Douamont, but, according to the
French official statement, the artillery
fire coming from both sides rendered
this position untenable for either the
French or Germans.
The French are hurling attack after
attack upon the Douaumont positions
held by the Germans, who are declured
to be maintaining themselves with a
great deal of difficulty, but at Woevre
region, to the east of Verdun, tho
French advance posts have been withdrawn.
Large reinforcements are being
brought up probably by both forces
anu it is reporteu mat the unuan
lines are being extended in Belgium
and France in order that' French
troops may be withdrawn for the Ver
dun battle.
Marine disasters are again a fea
ture of the news. Several Bteamers
have been blown up by mines and it
is believed that the recent great storm
along the coast of England and in the
North Sea has set powerful mines
adrift.
The Peninsular and Oriental steam
er Maloja, the mail steamer Meck
lenburg, the steamer Empress of Fort
Williams, and the steamer Birgit have
been sunk, three of them by mines.
The French steamer Trignac, has been
lost in the North Sea, two explosions
splitting the vessel apart The Maloja
went down off Dover and more than
forty persons lost their lives. The
loss on the Trignac is estimated at
twenty-six. In addition, it is con
firmed that the British steamer Fast
net has beeh sunk in the Mediterran
ean by a submarine.
yours in order. With City Drug Storo. at this time.
Mr. Phil Mann, an old timer in Un
ion county and well known citizen, is
here from Albuquerque on a short
visit He and sons are engaged in
.the garage business at that place.
Mrs. Edgar Shorman and sons of
Trinidad, have come to this city to
make their home. Mr. Sherman is
engaged as foreman of the News force
i
