-7 X
1 i
'.t o" Wa b. Kinnw M.r iTh ft steamer Delta is believed to have struck a mine field and foundered. Wreckage was washed, ashore
DEATH FOR WIFE MURDERER: OSSINING, Mar. 3,-Walter Watson, of Brooklyn, was today electrocuted at Sing Sing for the fnuder of -h.s w.fe a year ago.,
PORTUGAL DEFIES GERMANY: LONDON, Mar. 3. Lloyds' Bombay agent today reports that the Portuguese flag was hoisted on all German vessels lying in the,
port of Mormugao, and the Germans aboard them were interned. ; " ,
COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE STRIKE: WASHINGTON, Mar. S.-Secretary of Labor Wilson today appointed the commission which sads from Seattle on March
18th to investigate the strike which has halted construction on the Alaskan government railway line. -rOMMFRPF
RAIDER LYING LOW NEW YORK, Mar. 3.-Captain Munkewitz, of the liner Grayson, from Porto Rico reported here today, that a German raider
.r.-n-nn-onimTT a DFP a t tcp q a m PR a MPT nPO Mar 3 Glenn Witt and Charles Oxnam vere hanged at Folsom and ban Quentm prisons,-.
spSeHoftheTrd t dS JSS'SAL oD-mber . 14. Oxnam went to the scaffold sobbing; Witt protesting ,
q AWRir 4iJ3 TO TATTNT TFTTTONS- NEW YORK Mar. 3. It is announced here today that the White Star liner Canopic sailed for Italian ports today with three
. 3 SSSSoS. f rTsi Ul tateon armlent upor X arrival at Gibraltar and carry it until its return to Gibraltar.. This order was also issued to the Crept-c,
plying between Boston and Mediterranean ports. ..;., .
YUMA
ARIZONA DENTIN lil-'
SOUTHWEST -
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
GADSDEN
VOLUME XLVI. NUMBER 14.
YUMA, ARIZONA, THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1916
ilson Administration
I1TES IN INDIANA HAVE
ENORMOUS EXPENSE ACCOUNTS
(Associated press)
INDIANAPOLIS, Mar. 3.
That 'the state-wide pri
mary, tO be held in Indiana, tor and governor have had such ad
J I . . , ,rf!c0Tr,0nf in this strine of news
March 7th, is going to be an
expensive proposition both to
taxpayers and candidates for
office is the opinion of politi
cal leaders of all parties.
There is much speculation
as to what it will cost the state
and these estimates vary, but
no estimate has been lower
than an average of $5,000 a
county. The lowest estimate,
therefore, is $460,000 for the
92 counties of the state. And
some politicians think the
cost will run to $600,000.
Marion county, in which Indianapo
lis is situated, has already appropriat
ed $34,000 to pay the expenses of the
primary. Some county officials say
this advertising. One insertion of the
usual 20-inch add in the 200 papers
costs $1,000 at a , conservative esti
mate. Republican candidates ior sena-
1 ' "
vertisements in this string of news
papers anywhere from three to a doz
eng times. This repetition is explained
by the fact that some of the men be
gan their active campaign last August
while others began theirs later.
Campaign buttons, stickers, cards,
posters, street car adds and pennants
have been distributed with a lavish
hand.
Next to the advertising, the next
item of expense probably, is for trans
portation and hotel bills of the candi
dates and their managers. The motor
car has played a great part in the
primary. With the use of this means
of transportation, a candidate is able
to make several meetings a day. All
the candidates for senator and gover
nor, claim they have visited every
county in the state at least once, and
it is understood that one of the sena
torial candidates is making his third
this will not be enough. Some of the trjp t0 every county in the state,
smaller counties may not have to Postage has been a big item of ex
spend, it is estimated, more than pense. It is estimated that each candi
$3,000. But the larger counties, like date has sent out from 100,000 to
Lake, Vigo, St. Joseph, Allen and Van- 200,000 pieces of mail and most of this
derberg, and perhaps a few others, has gone "first class." The printing
will, it is believed, have to pay out of circulars has also cost a lot of extra
215,000 or more. Until all the printing money.
bills are in, however, it will not be Not the least of the candidate's ex
possible to ascertain the cost of the Penses has been the maintenance of
. j headauarters. consisting of large
primary witn any cenain degree oi '
accuracy.
That the primary is hitting the can
didates hard, there is no question.
Practically all of the political leaders
say that there was never any candi
date who made a canvass for an office,
suites of rooms in down town hotels
or office buildings in Indianapolis.
Some of the candidates have even
maintained headquarters recently, in
the larger cities of the state, outside
of the capital. This has meant the
employment of clerks, stenographers,
to be nominated at a convention, that an(j messengers, all of which have
ever spent anyways near what the pri
mary is costing. The greatest item of
expense, in the primary, is for news
naner advertising. The candidates are
cost considerable. Telephone and tele
graph tolls will run into hundreds of
dollars.
Various estimates have been made
using this method of appealing to the .as to the amount the different candi-
voter, more than ever before
dates will spend. Some are speculat-
Because of the lack of contest, thejing that two of the most active candi
Democratic candidates for the higher
offices have not been called to spend
large amounts. The Progressive can
didates are spending practically no
thing. It is the Republicans who are
making the strenuous campaign.
Rennblican candidates for United
States senator and governor, and there
are three each for these two offices,
are making their great appeal to the
voters by displaying their photographs
with reading matter in the newspa
pers. The increase in the use of this
sort of advertising has been marked.
Most of the advertisements are two
columns wide and ten inches or twenty
inches long. There are about 160 reg
ular Republican newspapers in the
state and about forty others carrying
dates for governor and two for senator
will have expended close on to $200,
000 at the close of primary day. They
figure that it will cost each one ap
proximately $50,000. The expenses
will not cease until the polls are closed
as some of the candidates, it is charg
ed will have motor cars at every pre
cinct in the state to see that their
friends get to the polls as well as hired
workers at the 3,177 voting precincts.
Associated Press
WASHINGTON, March 3. By a vote of sixty-eight to
fourteen, a greater majority than was expected, the ad
ministration forces in the Senate tabled Senator Gores'
resolution to warn all Americans off the armed merchant
ships of the European belligerants, thereby finally quell
ing the agitation in the Senate which embarassed'the ne
gotiations of the President on submarine warfare with
Germany. The Gore resolution substitute by Senator
McCumber, Republican, in an attempt to strengthen the
original resolution by Gore was defeated on a time roll
call on motion of Senator James. The administration
victory in the Senate was then transferred to a fight in
the House. When the Senate assembled the usual round
of morning business was passed quickly to make way for
the Gore resolution. The floor was crowded by sena
tors and representatives and the galleries were packed
with a throng, which included the President's wife in the
midst of it. Senator Stone called for the Gore resolu
tion and Senator James moved that it be tabled. Senator
Gore jumped to his feet and resolution that the death of
an American citizen on an unwarned merchantman would
be just cause for war. The result in the Senate was sat
isfactory to the White House and met with the wishes of
the President, whose attention is now concentrated on
the House.
McCumber later re-introduced substantially the same
resolution he had offered as a substitute for Gore's. Mr.
Gore voted to table his own resolution. Senators Cham
berlain and O'Gorman were the only Democrats voting
against it; 47 Democrats and 21 Republicans voted aye.
President Wilson, after conferring with Chairman
Pou, of the House rules committee, said he was deter
mined to have a vote by the House even if a special rule
containing the resolution would be required.
GERMANS CONTINUE ATTACK ON N. VERDUN
Associated Press
PARIS, March 3. Attacks and the bombardment is
being continued by the Germans on North Verdun is an
nounced by the war office here. The fighting is conduct
ed with redoubled violence. Near Douaumont several
fruitless endeavors by the Germans have been repulsed
with cruel losses. They nevertheless succeeded in reach
ing the village of Douaumont, where the fighting is be
ing continued with redoubled ferocity. The French are
still holding the line at Woevre by a continued curtain
fire. ,
BERLIN, March 3. The Germans cleared the village
of Douaumont and pushed their lines west and south of
an armored fort there is officially announced.
A thousand prisoners and a number of guns were
captured today. German airmen dropped bombs in the
vicinity of the main Yerdun fort. Lieut. Immelman shot
down a British biplane near East Douaui.
California asparagus is a dollar a
pound in New York, but in Yuma we
can get a mess of fresh spinach for
ten cents.
Miladi says
powder deep-Appeal.
beauty is often only
-Memphis Commercial
TWO DEAD IN A N. Y. C. R. R. TRAIN COLLISION
Associated Press
ALBANY, Mar. 3. Three known dead, and another
probably fatally injured and two others believed to have
been killed is the result of a rear end collision between
a freight and express train in the North Albany yards of
the New York Central railroad. A third train crashed
into the wreckage.
(By B. F. Fly)
"Instead of raising his
salary to $2,000, should he
happen to be elected, we will
more than likelv cut it from
$500 down to $100. That's
howN I stand on the Earl B.
Smith 'salary grab' game,"
declared one of the leading
members of the Water Users'
council the other morning,
when I asked him how he
stood on the question of rais
ing the president s salary.
lhat is a lair sample 01 wuai 1 nave
heard a dozen times a day. With the
exception of a mere handful of voters
in Mr. Smith's neighborhood, who
want to help him grab a big juicy
salary just because he lives near them,
there is absolutely no sentiment ir.
his favor for the office he is now so
industriously seeking.
Indeed, I am told that had he not
personally circulated his own .petition,
he could never have obtained enough
signatures to entitle his name to be
printed on the official ballot. One of
those who signed his petition gave me
this version of the manner he obtained
the signatures:
"Good morning," said Mr. Smith.
"Good morning, Mr. Smith," said I.
"Fine day, isn't it?" said Mr. Smith.
"Couldn't be beat," I replied.
"How are all the folks?" asked Mr.
Smith.
"Fine as a fiddle," I replied, wonder
ing what on earth was the matter, for
he and "all the folks" are hardly on
speaking terms.
"Do you think you can do a small
favor for me?" asked Mr. Smith, with
one of those winning smiles he is so
well noted for.
"Depends upon what your 'favor is,"
I replied.
"I want you to sign my petition for
candidate for President of the Water
Users' Association. Only a mere mat
ter of form, you know," said Mr. Smith
as he fished down in his pocket and
drew forth the petition.
"I don't see how I can very well
sign it, Mr. Smith, for you know I have
always been against you," I replied,
somewhat embarrassed.
"Oh, that makes no difference what
ever. Signing the petition does not
mean that you will have to vote for
me. But it will save me a lot of un
necessary trouble in hunting up my
friends. The reason I am circulation
my petition myself is to save my good
friends the trouble. Just sign your
name right here, and that will settle
the whole thing," said Mr. Smith.
"But I don't like to sign a man's
petition, and then turn right around
and help defeat him," I said.
"That makes no difference, what
ever. Just sign it so that I can file
the petition with the secretary. That
is all I ask," pleaded Mr. Smith.
"All right; give it here; I'll sign it,
but I shall do all I can to elect Judge
Thacker," I said. ,
"Thank you, and good-bye," said Mr.
Smith.
"Good-bye, and remember that I told
you that you have no more chance of
being elected president of the water
users' association than I have, and I
am not a candidate."
And I veryily believe that two-thirds
of the names signed to Earl B. Smith's
petition were obtained in just about
the same way way, for without an ex
ception, every man I have talked to,
whose name is on the petition, with
the exception of Governor Schutz, says
he intends to vote for Judge Thacker,
and only signed the petition so he
could help "snow him under" so deep
thathe will never again be heard of
in connection with the presidency of
the water users' association.
Even his warm personal friend, Gov
ernor Schutz, declares that he is tak
ing absolutely no part 'in the cam
paign, having all he can do to defeat
Mr! Corey, the latter regarded, Mr.
Schutz admits, as one of the very best
men in Yuma valley.
Having canvassed the situation
.pretty closely, I honestly believe that
Judge Thacker w'ill be elected. He
will "win in a walk," if his supporters
but take the trouble to vote. This
they owe to themselves, to their fami
lies, t'o the project, to do. '
RNED AGAINST
BUILDING II WASHES
Prof. G. E. P. Smith, irrigation eng
gineer of the University of Arizona,
has returned from an inspection trip
through the flooded districts between
Los Angeles and San Diego and along
the lower Gila and Colorado rivers.
Professor Smith states that not only
have bridges, large and small, disap
peared, but thousands of acres of valu
able orchard, alfalfa, and sugar beet
land have been eroded or buried be
neath from two to five feet of river
debris and sand. Scores of houses
have been washed away, and many
others have been undermined, twisted
and left in sliping positions on the
river banks. There, was considerable
i loss of life, also, part of this being
due to the slowness of people in leav
ing their homes even after they had
been warned.
So far the only substitute for gaso
line that has been found is the street
car- ticket. Detroit Free Pres.
