VOL. XXVII
HOOD RIVER, OREGON, THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1916
No.
First National Bank
New Business
This is the time of year to
consider and plan the cam
paign in all lines of industry.
The officers of this strong
bank are always glad to assist
in your plans and convince
you of the advantages of a
savings or checking account
with us.
A. D. MOE
President
E. O. BLANCHAR
Cashier
STATIONERY
Lord Baltimore Linen box paper 30c; pound paper.
Cascade Linen box paper 35c; pound paper.
Lotus Fabric Linen pound paper
Ustaco Linen Box paper 40c; pound paper.
Tulip Linen box paper 35c; pound paper.
Smyphony Lawn Stationery, box 50c; pound paper..
Envelopes at 5c, 10c and 15c package
25c
25c
25c
35c
35c
50c
Kresse Drug Co.
EASTMAN KODAK ,
AND SUPPLIES
7&e 3eaSJL Store
VICTOR
iVICTROLAS;
and; m
RECORDS)
COME IN AND HEAR THE LATEST MARCH RECORDS
Bank Advertisement No. 82
"The Nature of the Banking Business."
By H. S. McKee
(SERIES SEVEN)
"In a rough way, then, the bank can extend
credit to customers about in proportion to what
they do to support and maintain this credit struc
ture. The homely and practical expression of
this is to say that the banks can best help those
who help the banks. There is one further qual
ification. The bank can safely and properly loan
the most to customers who borrow for the short
est time. The usefulness of bank credit is great
ly increased when it is borrowed by a customer
who uses it to serve a temporary need, and
quickly repays it to the bank, to be used in turn
by another customer, so that a given sum is used
by several different customers in succession in
the course of a year. Deposits created out of
loans of this character are responsive, elastic and
serve the whole community.
"A permanent standing loan of bank credit
to one customer is something like cash hidden in
a safe deposit box. It is withdrawn from use
ful circulation; it impairs the usefulness of the
bank and prevents it from serving its other cus
tomers. A bank cannot create a line of satis
factory, elastic, circulating credit out of a sod
den mass of notes of customers who seldom pay.
The bank, then, in order to be of the highest
usefulness in the community, must extend credit
to the customer who is known to be of high char
acter, who is amply able to pay when due, who
does not try to borrow more than his fair propor
tion or for too long a time, and who does his full
part in co-operating with the bank and strength
ening it as vital agency in the business life of
the community."
BUTLER BANKING COMPANY
A Bargain Purchase
of the O. P. Dabney & Son stock
was made after several negotiations. This bargain be
came so apparent that we made few advances in the
proposed closing out prices and in hundreds of items.
Reduced These Figures Beyond
All Consideration of Cost
This stock has been consolidated with our own to re
duced selling expenses to lowest cost. We are adding
bargains to the line from our own stock, so that you may
supply any want at figures far below the greatest bar
gain hunter's fondest hope.
We have added extra salesmen and are prepared to
serve you promptly. H You will also be favored with
our regular credit terms and the popular 5 for cash.
Stewart Hardware & Furniture Co.
Your Credit Is Good. You may pay
cash and save 5 per cent
&
Steamers "Dalles City" and "Stranger"
Leave Portland 7 a. m., arrives at The Dalles (1:30 p. ra., daily except Sun
day, arrives at Hood River 4:20 p, m. Leave The Dalles 7 a m., arrivea at
Portland 6:30 p. m., daily except Sunday, arrives at Hood River 9:20 a. m.
Wednesday of each week is set aside as "Stock Yard Day" and then the
Pteamer Dalles City will take live stock for delivery to Portland Union 8tock
Yards. This service will permit the individual to ship as few animals at de
sired and get benefit of low freight rates.
For further Information phone 4531
R. ROBERTS. Agent, The Regular Line
Announcement Extraordinary !
FOR ORCHARDISTS
Our Spray Factory will soon be in operation
and a large part of our output will be handled by
the Apple Growers Association.
For your own best interests help a home in
dustry and a home institution and place your
orders with the Association.
And don't wait too long, if you would profit.
J. C. BUTCHER
Keep Your Money In Hood River
By Having Your Clothes Tailored to
Measure by Dale & Meyer
We have a large asssortment of novelty suings as well
as the ever serviceable blue or black serge or cheviot.
DALE & MEYER
lOft Third Street
Tailors to Men Tailors to Women
GROCERIES
The Quality is Guaranteed and the Price
is Right at the
CASH GROCERY
Grocery of Quality
E. E. KAESSER, Proprietor Phone 1012
lti the Fine Coffee on Eirth, I lb. tins 45c. 3 lb. tin $l.. i U. tint MM
Moat of tba beat people in Hood River use k. Sold only at
Star Grocery Perigo & Son
NEW BUILDINGS
RECOMMENDED
P.-T. ASSOCIATION HEARS REPORT
Existing School Rouses are Declared In
adequateSchool Board, Favorable,
Takes a Neotral Stand
At tba meeting of the Parent-Teacher
Association at tba high school builJing
last Thursday night a committee ap
pointed recently to confer with the
school board as to tbe advisability of
nee buildings, recommended in its re
port tbkt new structures should be pro
vided. Tbe committee was composed
of F. Davenport, Jr., S. A. Mitchell,
P. H. Blagg, Mrs. F. H. Button and
Mrs. J. P. Lucas.
While members of tbe school board
express themselves as favorable to tbe
plan as outlined by the committee.Jthey
declare tbat they will not wage any
campaign for the new atructurea.
"As business people and members oi
the school board." says F. A. Cram,
chairman of the board, "we feel that
the proposed investment will be a good
one. But we will only go so far as to
put the absolute facts before the peo
ple and let it go at that."
The report of the committee follows:
Members of the Parent-Teacher As
sociation : We, the committee appoint
ed by your hororable body to confer
with the school bosrd in regsrd to tbe
needs of our city schools, desire to sub
mit the following report:
We have held three meetings of the
committee; at two of these Prof. Mc
Lauhglin waa present. Also two meet
ings in conjuntion with the school
board, to which the alumni and high
school associations sent committees.
We bave interviewed tbe superinten
dent of schools, as well as many of tbe
teachers; examined the records of the
school for the past Ave years, and re
viewed the grounds of both Park street
school and the high school. We have
looked into the conveniences and equip
ment of the schools ; the sanitary con
ditions, as well as the earnings and ex
penses of the school, and have compared
the same with the earnings of former
years. We bave examined the records
of the number of students in all the
buildings, year to year, comparing
them with the records of this year. In
this connection we find that tbe high
school has gathered in tbe pupils of the
neighboring districts and departments
bave been added which could not have
been without this increased attendance;
that the cost per pupil baa been low
ered in our district because of this in
creased attendance. Our district has
received only tbe cost per capita of
operation for these pupils. The income
from this soutce is about $5000 per
year. This attendance means much to
our high school, and these pupils must
be cared for if we wish to hold them
and retain the departments as we bave
them now.
Following is data relative to the
district, showing the financial status,
as well as the number of pupils en
rolled, the cost of rented buildings and
other expenditures.
Data relative to School District No. 3:
FINANCIAL:
Valuation of district 12.793.491.14
Bonded Indebtedness 43.000.00
Rate of interest on bonds b'i per cent
Interest paid annually on bonds
Number of years bonds are issued
Date of issue
Note: Bonds mey be retired at the end
of 10 years and a sinking luna must
he treated besrinninr with 11th year.
Limit of bonded indebtedness district
Tax levy in mills for 1914
Tax levy in mills for 1915
Tax levy in mills for 1916
Amount of tax levy for 1916
Other revenues for 1916. estimated:
Tuitions to hign scnooi
State appropriation
County school tax
Delinquent taxes, no data
2.378.00
twenty
1908
139.674.S6
7 9
7 6
20,961.18
4.800.00
1,894.75
7.000.00
tl3.194.75
In addition to the regular expenses of maintain-
Ins; schools, the following- should be considered:
Rent of manual training building 225.00
Rent of room at Christian church 112.50
Rent of skating; rink prior to 1915 and '
the eouivalent for 1915-16. 100.00
Commencement expenses; rent of hall
building- of stage, rental oi cnairs,eio. an.w
Rofital of hall Dark by students, est.' . 76.00
Rental of halls for social by students.. 25.00
Total sszz.bo
SCHOOLS:
Number of pupils in grades 476
Number in high school 210
No. in Pleasant View bldg. 4 rooms. . . Ill
No. in Christian church. 1 room 30
No. in Park Street, 8 rooms 267
No. In H. S. bid, grade, 8 rooms. -68
hirh school 210 278
Total number of grade rooms 16
Average number in each room no
No. of grade rooms having 2 divisions. H
No. of rooms having 80 pupils and over 8
No. of rooms having 30 and more pupils
and 2 grades
High School:
Conditions demanding attention in
high school are not the size of classes
so much as the arrangement of rooms,
buildings and equipment. The rooms
for regular book work are mostly small
and jammed together, while the rooms
for special and vocational subjects are
widely scattered and insufficient in
either space or arrangement of rooms.
Tbe lack oi iaciuties is most nouceauie
in the follow ng departments :
No assembly room lor student or
public meetings, and lor literary pur
noses.
Manual training shop, removed two
blocks and inadequate in sue lor pres
ent work.
Kitchen, inadequate in arrangement
and equipment.
Sewing room, temporary quarters.
and any permanent equipment for this
room not thought aavisaoie.
Commercial department, no room for
typewriting, a hall being used at this
time, unsatisfactory and hard to heat.
In considering the wants of our
schools now and the possibilities of tbe
future we beg to make the following
report: At the Psrk street school we
find tbe conditions bad in this respect:
The srades are crowded, sanitary con
ditiona are not of the best, and tbe
grounds and builidiiss are not adequate
to meet the needs oi me scnoois ; mai
the efficiency of the work is being bin
dered bv the lack of room. In this
connection we find that a room at the
Christian church la rented and being
used for a primary grade, but this is
not satisfactory ; and there is no ether
available room for another teacher to
relieve tbe overcrowded eondi tion.
The report above shows that eight of
the 16 grade rooms bave an enrollment
above tbe average, and tbat five of
these eight rooms bave two divisions,
r grades, in the room. This average
ia too high and should be reduced, es
pecially in the? primary grades. Aa
before stated, tbe grounds are too
small for a new building, or an exten
sion to the present building. We rec
ommend in this case the purchaae of
more ground, or tbe securing of a new
site on Eugene street.
As to the blgb school, we find the
rooms very much crowded, though the
faculty ia doing a very good work at a
very great disadvantage. As shown in
tbe report, there are now in this build
ing 210 pupils, as compared with 125 in
'912. Here we find tbe domestic scienee
department ' and commercial depart
ment and the upper grade pupils from
tbe Park street school. We find that
this building was not planned for the
work aa it ia now given in our high
school. Tbe facilities are not modern-
the equipment, especially in the sew,
ins department, ia inadequate on ac
count of lack of space. In one instance
tbe ball is used tor work in tbe com
mercial department. Tbe mingling of
grade and high school students in tbe
same building ia not aecuring the best
results, and the grade pupils ahould be
removed from this building. We rec
ommend the securing of more ground
lor the blab school, we also recom
mend a new buuilding, built so as to
take care of tbe manual training de
partment, tbe domestic science depart
ment, atbietie training room and as
sembly ball or audtiorium.
In tbe financial report we find an
item of $225 for the rental of a build
ing for manual training purposes. This
building ia located several blocks from
the other school buildings. The room
is too small and the equipment of a ne
cessity inefficient. Too much time is
lost by the pupils going to and from
this building, and the loss of control of
tbe students while off the school
grounds is considerable.
We would recommend that any plan
in building ahould consider the addi
tional numbers of children that are to
be expected in the district in the future.
That none of the sitea on which the
buildings are located are large enough.
We find tbat while the number of people
in the city has decreased, the number
of pupils in the schools has increased.
This should lead us to the consideration
of tbe future and to the number of pu
pils we will have when the city again
gets back its population.
we find tbe additional expense, paid
out for rental of rooms, etc., is not se
curing satisfactory service in any in
stance, and this money would largely
pay the interest on a sum sufficient to
properly equip the schools of our district.
In closing we wish to ask that you do
not lose sight of the work our school
board is doing. We found them giving
much of their valuable time for the
benefit of your children, and the future
of your school. We think you will find
much to commend them for, in the fl
nancial report given you this evening.
It has been through their efforts that
we have secured the able superinten
dent and tbe corps of teachers who are
doing so much for us and our children,
as well as the future of our beautiful
city.
PARSONS CORRECTS
ERRONEOUS REPORT
Seattle, Wash., Feb. 28, 1916.
Editor Glacier: Will you kindly cor
rect an article recently appearing in
one of your issues relative to tbe con
templated withdrawal ot tbe Kogue
River Fiuit & Produce Association from
the Northwestern Fruit Exchange and
my connection therewith.
As far as tbe decision of the Associa
tion to cease using the Exchange as its
selling medium is concerned, that ahould
be entirely with the stockholders of the
Association. Personally, as as grower
and one of the organizers of both the
Association and Exchange, my interest
first naturally lies witb a proper selling
method employing system and compre
hensive distributon and intelligent and
experienced operators. I, therefore,
have no idea of severing my connection
in any way witb the Exchange, as in
my belief it is only through a central
selling agency of this kind that we can
in any way meet the present crisis in
the fruit situation in the northwest and
overcome so many of the problems and
difficulties that are confronting us. The
function of the local, or district organ
ization, is a most important one and
should cover the picking, packing, han
dling, assembling and shipping under
absolutely correct methods. It then
becomes the function of the highly sys
tematized and comprehensive central
selling agency to market the fruit
where the great proportion oi the con
centrated efforts of the entire north
west can be put financially and morally
behind their product, and toe business
done in a wholesale manner, rather
than retail, aa the problem ia a big one
and ahould bave the coraiiated activi
ties of many experts. Tbe grower is
an expert pioducer: he ahould hire ex
perts in tbe next step, or that of the
local Association, covering handling
and shipping, and they in turn should
employ in the technical matter oi iruit
distribution, an accurately trained and
thoroughly broad central selling agency
which can .cover the markets of tbe
world from the various districts, and
whose activities would not be limited
by the production in variety, quality
and quantity of any one locality and
the consequent restrictions of financial
effort on the part of the growers gen
erally. It is pleasing to note that the North
western Fruit Exchange has steadily
gained in the proportionate amount of
fruit sold each year of the six years it
baa bandied fruit from various sections
of the northwest, the most recent ac
quisition being the Milton Cooperative
Fruit Growers Union, ot Milton, Wash.,
whose fruit production ia considerable,
and its possibities are most promising.
Very truly yours,
Reginald H. Parsons.
PORTLAND APPLE
SALE IS BEGUN
The Apple Growers Association be
gan its second annual sale of Red and
Blue Diamond brand Yellow Newtown
apples in Portland tbe latter part of
last week. Blue Diamonds are selling
for $2.40 per box, retail, and Red Dia
monds at $2. An advertising campaign
in conjunction witb retail grocers is
being waged.
Last year during a week's time the
Association, not being able to export
the Newtown applea because of the
war, sold 23 carloada of the two grades
in Portland.
"While we have not so much of the
stock tbia year," aaya A. W. Stone,
"we are looking for the best of returns."
AUCTION MAN
SCORESJMVERS
TOO SUSPICIOUS, SAYS C00DSELL
Present Condition, It is Declared, Would
Make Auction Sales of Boxed
Apples Unprofitable
At a meeting of orchardists ad
dressed by him, under the auspices of
tbe county granges at the Commercial
club Saturday alternoon, E. L. Good-
sell, a representative of New York
fruit auction interests, characterized
the failure of northwestern boxed ap
ple growers to receive profiatble re
turns from ales of their crocs aa
due unqualifiedly to their own actions.
You bave condemned your sales
agencies and everyone else in connec
tion witb tbe trade," he said, "when it
is yourselves that you should condemn.
My advice to you is to affiliate with
some cooperative agency, and these
sgencies should secure some neutral
marketing expert who is nut a grower
to act as a bub or clearing house for
them."
The fruit industry of the Northwest.
the auction man declared, has been op
erated like a railway system without a
train dispatcher.
Mr. Goodsellll voiced an approval of
the plan proposed by the Office of Mar
kets of the United Mates Department
of Agriculture and declared that he
would go further and advertise the
Northwestern apples as California
has advertised its oranges. He de
clared that applea from all districts
should be marketed under one brand
for the porpose of reaching the con
sumer, "but J that individual brands, be
cause of their value in dealings with
jobbers and retailmen, should be re
tained, eefore making this statement,
Mr. Goodsell, who characterized the
Hood River growers as tbe 400 of the
apple world, asked that nobody shoot
him.
"You growers here no doubt think
that your brands are of the greatest
value," he said, "and they are lor the
purposes mentioned. But the consum
er is a very impersonal proposition,
and some such brand name aa 'Snow
Crisp,' for all fruits would reach
them."
While- Mr. Goodsell cited arguments
for auction sales of boxed apples, he
declared that under existing circum
stances his concerns would not accept
box apples for auction. With north
west sales agencies for the most part
centered in handling the fruit through
other channels of trade, he said that
auction sales would in all probability
leave growers dissatisfied with returns.
During past years catalogs of auc
tion sales have merely designated
brands of carloads of fruit sold by
them at certain dates with the price,
instead of describing the grade, quality
and condition of tbe appleB. This
practice has aroused antagonism of
boxed apple salea agencies, and at tbe
suggestion of some of them," declared
Mr. Goodsell, we will publish all infor
mation pertaining to sales in the fu
ture." The auction man declared that a law
should be passed to prevent growers
from attempting to sell their crops
themselves. He Baid agriculturists
should pay more attention to politics,
and elect men who would adopt meas
ures that would be beneficial to the
farming population.
On Monday Mr. Goodsell held a con
ference with Governor Withy combe
relative to the proposed chartering of
a ship to carry a cargo of apples to
England. He baa met with the gover
nors of Idaho and Washington, both of
whom, he says, are in favor of the
proposition. Next week Mr. Goodsell
wili see Governor Johnson, of Califor
nia. He says that a saving of 66 2-3
cents per box can be made in shipping
apples direct to Europe by steamship
lines as compared with the rates
charged for shipments through New
York city.
Mr. Goodsell, who is en route to Cali
fornia to confer with fruit interests
relative to the distribution of by-products,
was accompanied here by Arthur
M. Geary, of Portland, who has been
engaged for the past two years in the
interest of the auction system of mar
keting boxed apples.
CANADIAN APPLE DU
TIES ARE HEAVIER
It is thought by local apple sales
agency officials that the increased du
ties placed by the Canadian govern
ment on this fruit will make shipments
to the markets of the provinces prohib
tory and tbat as a consequence ditnbu
tion will suffer severely during the
marketing season of next fall.
"The duty has been increased from
13 1-3 cents to 33 1-3 cents per box,"
saya Wilmer Sieg, "and in addition to
tbia a war tax of 71 per cent of the in
voice is levied. The increased tariffs
will have no direct effect on us, but
by eliminating from Canada the heavy
shipments of C grade product of other
districts they bring this large quantity
of fruit in competition with our applea
in markets of the middle west."
It is said that the increased duties
have been fostered by fruit growers of
British Columbia and Ontario, who
hope by means of it to bolster their
domestic sales.
A government report on the distribu
tion of last year's crop of Northwest
ern boxed apples up to January 22
showed that 558 carloads were shipped
to Canadian points.
JUDGE DERBY WILL
BE A CANDIDATE
Judge Dreby has announced that ha
will be a candidate for the Democratic
nomination for the office of district at
torney, of which he is at present the
incumbent.
A graduate of the law school of the
University of Oregon, Judge Derby baa
resided here 10 years. When Hood
River county was established he was
appointed the county's first judge. Ha
represented Hood River and Wasca
counties in tbe legislature in 1911. For
eight years Judge Derby was city at
torney of Hood River.
Keys made while you wait.
Shop, Third and Cascade.
Tire
