FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
of!
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
j
olln o
PRICE TWO CENTS ?S-mEDS
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1916
fl' flfff i
ffil lll fftfWWifffif
-
II rftrtr !HH
l !! tf U ii I J
A. ?T y VAJV I i V
nTlniiniirvl fcH?: '
' 1
I
1
HUNDREDS OF IRIS
LO
ADED W TH WOUNDED
River of Mangled Men Pours Toward Paris 22i ospital
v Trains Employed by Germans In Caring For vc In
i. jured Crisis at Verdun Came Sunday When G nans
Exposed To Fire of Countless Field and Machine uns
i Were Butchered For Six Hours
GORE'SJTATEMENT
Said Nothing From Which
Such Meaning Could Be
Inferred
SENATE WITH PRESIDENT
Washington, March 2. The senate
adjourned late this afternoon to 11
o'clock tomorrow morning when it will
immediately take up the issue of
warning Americans from armed ships.
Whip Lewis claimed that a poll of
the senate showed not over 20 members
against the president.
London, March 2. Freshened by a respite, the Ger
mans are bombarding anew the Verdun and Champagne
districts, according to Paris reports today.
This may be the signal for a further German effort to
level the Verdun fortress or it may mean that the Teutons
are merely trying to shield troops being transferred to
other sectors.
The general view here is that the "6 hour lull in the
infantry fighting is preliminary to a grand assault upon
the Verdun forts, though some authorities asserted that
the Verdun offensive has been ended because of the ap
palling human sacrifices and that a new attempt to break
the French line elsewhere will be made.
"Although modern conditions of attack and defense
vary, the old time flux between battle and rest is un
avoidable," said the Frankfurter Zeitung today. "The
Germans must move enormous quantities of materials
over the hills."
Rotterdam dispatches'" today declared that the kaiser
had left Verdun Tuesday and returned to Germany.
If this be true it may indicate either that he is satis
fied as to the future or is personally quitting the Verdun
district because of an abandonment of plans for continu
ing the strueele there. At the same time Geneva reports
said several commanders are opposed to continuance of
the Verdun efforts, and that the Duke of Wurtemburg
has supplanted the crown prince in direction of affairs
on the western front.
The crisis in the Verdun onslaught came Sunday with
a heavy attack against the Pepper Heights through
Douaumont. Until they came within close range, the Ger
mans were protected by small hills, but upon emerging
from behind these, they were confronted by hundreds of
field pieces and machine guns. After six hours of butch
ery, the Teutons were repulsed.
Thousands of wounded men, many of them hopelessly
crippled, are reaching Paris. Reports tell also of 220
German hospital trains sent to Aix-la-Chapelle.
London M ir. 2 The lull in slaughter, itzors. bombarded Fort Pc' Vaux and
un.und Verdun continued again last ; simultaneously directed both artillery
lit, both tlie Paris and P.erlin offi-Jaml inf.uitry against l'ort l)c Tavennes
c.tTl statements agreed today. The Par- nearby. The Frei.cn repulsed the lat or
is statement however, mentioned a bom- move at the Imx station but finally
lemlinent that appeared like prepaid-1 were pushed back upon I e aux which
tion Cor resumption of the struggle. ithov were force to abandon.
The P.erlin statement failed to eon-1 Travelers report that the Germans are
f irm Amsterdam messages saying Fort concentrating in the Argonne woods.
He Vaiix. near Verdun had been evaeu-innd it is believed that the crown prince
ntcd. nor did it show a big drive is! will renew the Verdun offensive with
about to start in the Argonne. strokes in the Argonne and from he
Attacks Jgninst Fresnes, southeast of j southeast thus attenuating to einelop
Verdun, were repulsed, said Paris, disrt'iie forts,
crediting the P.erlin claim of capture of; ;
that poiut. Called t0 the Col0r3'
London, Mar. 2. Married men be-
i Fighting Not Strenuous. tween the ages of 19 and 27, who vol-
, -vr.... o i. untered in the Lord Derby recruiting
tion of Fort be Va.ix, two miles south-! campaign, will be called to the colo s
oast of Douaumont and part of the er- within n few days, according to an
cle of defenses around erdun, was re-. nouncement today
i n ... .i.-:...,J The new conscription law went into
todav. These declared that the tier- effect today .and preparations ha e
man-guns had wrecked the fort but that 1 1'" completed for calling in med ately
Ihe French had fired the rums so that-! me '"' """"""i v..B.. ....
! tier u.
t l.nrn.. nontorq announced that hence.
Washington, March 2. President
Wilson this afternoon authorized the
following statement regarding the Gore
speech in the senate in which Senator
Gore claimed the president had inti
mated to congressmen his readiness to
go to war with Germany if the Teutons
maintained their cnurse in the interna
tional situation:
" When the attention of the White
House was called to certain statements
in Senator Gore's speech this afternoon,
the president authorized an unqualified
denial of any utterance to which any
such meaning could be attached."
The statement of Senator Gore during
debate today in the senate, making
such an intimation, was in full as fol
lows: "Certain senators and certain mem
bers of the house have received from
President Wilson information, if not a
declaration, that if Germany insisted on
her position, the United States would
insist upon hers, and that it would
probably result in a break of diplomatic
relations and a state of war, anil that
a state of war might not be of itself
and of necessity an evil to this repub
lic, but that the United States by en
tering upon the war now might be able
to bring it to a conclusion by mid
summer, and thus render a great serv
ice to civilization."
What President Said.
It was stated authoritatively that
what actually occurred at the confer
ence to which Gore referred, was this:
Action such as warning Americans
off armed ships would bring the coun
trv to the brink of war, the president
said. Encouraged by the action of
congress, Germany would believe the
country was not "behind the president,
and would insist upon going ahead with
its submarine warfare plans. At any
time an American might be killed
Then, in the light of the American
notes about submarine attacks, Amer
ica could do nothing but sever diplo
matic relations with Germany, Hut
Colonel House, the Wilson envoy, and
Ambassador Von Bernstorff had in
formed the president that such a
severance would result in a declaration
of war by Germany. The president had
been informed that America's entrance
into the war would result in ending it
within six months.
President Wilson then expressed the
devout hope that congress would pre
cipitate no action, hampering the up
holding of international law. He told
them that only firm maintenance of the
rights America had declared for and a
demand that these rights be respected
could maintain the peace of America.
Ii II
MS OLD GUARD
Objected Strongly To Dicta
tion From Those Under
the Capitol Dome
LIKE JESHUR0N THEY
"WAXED FAT. AND KICKED"
And Their Kicks Like That of
Mrs. O'Leary'js Cow Caused
Dreadful Ruin
.Sixteen men on the dea mail's chest,
l'o, Ho, Ho; how things did hum.
But the 1(1 men of the ancient sea
farer's tale never created the furore
that lli penitentiary employes aroused
at the "uarmony" meeting of the Ma
rion County .Republican club held
at the court house last night. The peui
tentiary crowd was augumented by
delegations from the various commis
sions and departments of the state
house that are under the particular
thumb of the administration and with
a pledged majority of three to one
the stand patters attempted to elect
Mark McCallister chairman of the Ma
Hon county republican central com
mittee. The Marion county wheel
horses, however, laid their ears back
and balked and after .several short but
lively political rounds the smoke clear
ed away and James G. Heltzel, of Sa
lem, was elected chairman of the repub
lican central committee for this county.
To begin with for several days the
adherents of the administration have
been quietly pledging votes of Marion
county republicans V McCallister. The
proper man did the pledging in each
instance, and it is said that before thr
meeting, Mark had 75 of the 102 votes
pledged to his support. Then a fev
of the old timers began to drop in at
FOR FAMILY ENDED
Armed Maniac In Home Two
Days Terrorizes Family
and Defies Officers
Oregon City, Ore., March 2. Having
about murders of the past and future,
William Klinkinuii, a powerful young
farmer, aged 2a years, is pacing a pad
ded cell in the county jail here touuy
after holding at bay for two days of
ficers who sought tu arrest him on an
insanity warrant.
Armed with a rifle and a revolver,
Klinkmau kept officers from entering
his house ut Ardcnwald. The deputy
sheriffs feared to use violence in tak
ing the young man, for his two sisters
and mother were in the house with him.
Captured lust night by a ruse, Kink
man said he knew who had committed
the Hill murders in 1U11, only a quarter
of a mile from his home. Officers to
day are investigating to learn if the
young maniac could have been respons
ible for this crime. In June, JSIll, Wil
liam Hill, his wife and two children,
were found in the bedroom of their
home at Ardenwiild, brutally murdered
with an axe. Their murderer was never
captured.
Market Is Quiet But
Shows Slight Advances
(Copyright 1910 by the New York Ev
ening Post.)
New York, March 2. After yester
day's slight hysterical excitement, the
stock market today relapsed into the
inertia which prevailed before the
start of the Verdun battle or the con
gressional clash with President Wilson.
Most of the day's business was in spec
ulative industrials, and the tendency
was mostly upwards. That the day's
spirit should have been hesitating was
not surprising in view of the uncertain
ty that continued to surround the up
permost topics of discussion.
Following an advance of half point
in a number of stores, further fraction
al advances occurred. Besides the
more active industrials, several rail
way issues rose nearly a point above
yesterday's close. By noon, however,
the action seemed to be ended and the
market was motionless until the last
the court house and found signs of tin-ihal'f hour when prices yielded slowly
usual activity. Instead of a mere hand ! under desultory professional pressure.
E
the Teutons were unable to occupy it.
i I It'l 11 I'M MF. ill LUUinib; iu i i m v " , ... 1 1 k
ports, the Germans moved up their how- tort h lacnciors ami . v .r-
garded as soldiers and dratted as need-
"JX"'"""0"" '' "" L '" l " " " "I i Ti. first nine croups will be called
j1)V ij
;
!
Abo Martin
wmfm
" 41,
Killed One Baby.
London, Mar. 2. Flying low- in a
heavy mist, a. German seaplane last
nigiit raided the southeast coast of Eng
land, dropped four explosive bombs,
mangled a baby so badly that it died,
.uid wrecked the rear of sevetal houses.
Rumanian Queen Dying.
Berlin, by wireless (o Snyville, L. I.,
Mar. 2. The condition of Dowager
yueeu Carmen Sylva of Rumania is crit
ical and Bix physicians have declared
her case hopeless, said Bucharest dis
patches today.
Situation Unchanged.
P.erlin, Mar. 2. The situation on the
western bnttlc front is unchanged, said
an official statement today. A French
counter att.ick at Dauamont was unsuccessful.
fill the court room was packed and
when the Marion county "Pillars of
the l'artv" entered they found 1C
guards and officials 'from the state
penitentiary among those present.
Further in, they found the Amen cor
ner occupied by the state house delega
tions and the late arrivals "saw red."
Some fast foot work was executed and
the old guard rallied their forces.
Nominations for the office of chair
man of the central committee were in
order. The state house delegation ob
jected to the present incumbent, Soy
PORTLAND WOMAN SUICIDES
Portland, Ore., March 2. A well
dressed woman, believed to be Mrs. Nn
dine Nichols Velguth, shot and killed
herself in the corridor of the seventh
floor of the Journal building here short
ly before 3 o'clock today.
An umbrella bearing the name "Nede
Velguth" was found near the body.
Mrs. Velguth was in the public, eye a
few years ago' when her husband em-
BACKING OF CONGRESS
ILL SETTLE DISPUTES
Chairman Stone of Senate Foreign Committee Does Not
Agree With President As To Armed Merchantmen
Savs Though, Suaoort of Congress Will Bring Both Ger
many and England to Terms and End Acute Situation
Question Is Not One of Politics But of Patriotism
"THE CONGRESS CRISIS COMMHTTEE"
. Upon the house foreign committee rests today
the determination of whether ship warning resolu
tions shall be reported out, thus affording an op
portunity for a "showdown" on supporting Presi
dent Wilson's opposition to such warning.
The Committee Follows:
Democrats Republicans
Flood, Virginia, chairman Cooper, Wisconsin
Cline, Indiana Porter, Pennsylvania
Linthicum, Maryland Rogers, Massachusetts
Goodwin, Arkansas Temple, Pennsylvania
Stedman, North Carolina Foss, Illinois
Harrison, Mississippi
Miller, Minnesota ,
Mott, New York
Kennedy, Rhode Island
Smith, New York
Walker, Georgia
Shackleford, Missouri
Sabath, Illinois
Ragsdale, South Carolina
Loft, New York
Huddleston, Alabama
$
-
moor .Tones, on the Grounds that Mr. I nezien fin.miu rrom ine i omiuiM v.
Jones is a candidate ior the state legis-i & l'ok company to spend on h.r.
lature. The objection was sustained. The woman, about 30 years old, beau
Then Mark McCallister 's name was pre-1 tiful and wearing expensive clothes.'
sented and -Judge Peter D'Arcy felt rode calmly to tho seventh floor, which
constrained to offer a few remarks, lie lis occupied entirely by the offices of
' I a construction company.
( Continued on Pairs Hix.1 I
Night Was Quiet
Paris, Mar. 2. The lull in the war
fare around Verdun continued last
night, according to today's official
statement.
WILL SHOOT IN PORTLAND
Portland. Ore., March 2. The Pacific
const handicap shooting championships
An amateur show is good it it s VM. will be held in Portland this year. Hen
an' antul it it s good. "Uivc me th . ry K. hvenling, president of the Port
old fashioned Christmus when you got land lun club, received a telegram to
j-r-sents instead of cards," said Miss ; tlii effect today from Klmer K. hhaner.
Cit-riu Williams, Uday. j secretary of the Interstate association.
Must Release Seized Ships or
Fight Germans Flee
From Lisbon
Amsterdam. Mar. 2." Germany
prepared to declare war upon Portugal
immediately in the event of an unsat
isfactory reply to the Clerm.in note de
manding release of (Sennan ships seized
by Portugal," said a Uerlin dispatch to
day.
Portuguese consuls in Germany have
warned their eoiiiitrvinen to prepare to
depart, inasmuch as the situation lira)'
be critical by tonight.
According to Uerlin newspapers, i.er-
many cannot anow tne incident io pass
without disgrace.
Germans Leave For Spain. I
Lisbon. Mar. 2. Fearful for their!
safety, sixty leading Germans hero have
hurriedly left for Spain upon receipt of
reports that Ucmany js about to de
clare war upon Portugal. The majority
of German business houses have been
closed.
Portugal's answer to Germany s de
mand lor release of Teuton ships seized
by Portugal was dispatched last night.
It is rumored to be a refusal to comply.
It was rumored that the German min
ister would leave this afternoon, though
the German embassy failed to confirm
this.
The president, cabinet and political
leaders conferred up to a late hour l ist
night and, it is understood, framed their
icplv to Germany.
Fully 200 German business men are
estimated to have sought refuge in
Spain.
Figures show that Tillamook cheese
is fust gaining strength as an Oregon
resource.
PRESIDENT CORRECT
IN INTERPRET A TION OF
AMERICAN SENTIMENT
By Ed L. Keen.
(General Kuropean Manager of the
United Press.)
Washington, Mar. 2. "Of course we
should uphold our national honor if pos
siblebut we must nt any cost keep out
of this war."
their representatives in congress were
apparently not all of t tin same minii.
Hut the Hritisher would make a gre
vious mistake were ho to conclude that
the president is about to plunge the
country ruthlessly into war. As lie in
dicated in his Gridiron speech, he is
quite as much concerned lest the conn
According to the average Hritisher,' try err on tne sine or rnsnncss as on i ne
n 1 .wl n f.Aiiiii;lw'n Thn im iiinuiinn i ft
this was the average American's atti-j 0(,rmanv to,lBV that he is really seeking
tude when I left Kngland a month ago break with the Teutonic powers is
By Bond P. Gcddca
Washington, Mar. 2 While President
Wilson watchfully waited for the coun
try to force congress to support him in
the international situation, the storm
over his policies broke today in tho
senate.
Unexpectedly, the Gore resolution to
warn Americans off armed ships tho
crucial point in differences between the
president ami congress eanio up for
discussion. Although it was debated
nearly two hours, no action was taken.
Gore electrified the senate witn tne
statement that he had heard President
Wilson was prepned to go to war with
Germany if necessary. Throughout tho
afternoon, these charges wero renewed
in the senate corridors, and caused a
vast sensation.
Senators heard themselves branded
by Senator Williams as responsible for
fisting abroad the impression that con
gress does not uphold President Wil
son's hands. Senator Gore, proponent
of the warning resolution, fought very
strongly for his measure. He told his
listeners he hud heard that sonic sen
ators tiiought war would bo a blessing
and that President Wilson whs prepared
to go to war it necessary. His resolu
tion, ho said, would sivo "madcap"
Americans from themselves and pre
vent the plunging of tho nation into
bloodshed.
His plea for giving up the right of
armed ship travel was based largely
upon the idea that "civilization abro
gates brutal rights" and tint such a
right as thn one under discussion is the
outgrowth of the days of piracy.
Senator Williams voiced the opinion
that the president's desire for a "show
down" would result in a "show up"
of certain legislators.
Scenes attending today's debate were
unparilleled since the days of the
Spanish war. Tension seemed in the
air. Kvery senator was on hand, anJ
the galleries were jammed. From the
house came nearly 100 representatives
eager to know the results of the fray
in the upper branch.
It seemed prncticilly certain t'ais af
ternoon that the senate would sustain
l'or a brief visit home. In other words,
John Hull was satisfied that Uncle Sam
was far more worried about keeping out
itist as far' from the truth as the notion
prevailing in Kngland recently that he
was sccretiv favoring the German cause.
It was interesting to note during the
of the war than he was over questions, , wka ,rin . vn riBt.,r llnniiii
mity of opinion on tne question or pre
paredness than on our present attitude
of national honor or rights of human
ty or the preservation ot international
justice.
"We should lieep out ol this war, ir
possible but not at the cost of our self
respect."
A two weeks tour through the east,
south and middle west which included
sixteen states, has convinced me that
this is a much better interpret ition of
the average American view than the
one that was so widely prevalent in
hnglnnd before 1 resident Wilson ad
dresned his recent letter to Senator
Stone. In the circumstances, it is not
at all surprising that, within the past
few days, the liritish press has material
ly altered its previously unfavorable
opinion of the president. Wilson today
is doubtless almost as popular a figure
in Knuland as Colonel Itoosevelt.
townrd Germany.
Had there been less haste and great
er opportunities for inquiry doubtles
it would have been able to urscOYcr a
larger proportion of anti-preparedness
sentiment, but the tact remains that I
encountered only two persons who were
apposed to any campaign of prepared'
ness. One was William Jennings Hry
an and the other was a minister of the
gowpel. It is only 'fair to mention thn
there were several ministers among
those interviewed.
Bryan was delivering his anti-preparedness
lecture in a Florida resort
town to an audience recruited from
widely scattered sections of the coun
try, ne wns given a respectful' but
unenthusiastic hearing. There was no
to the house. Tho committee considera
tion of the situatinon was slated for ''
o'clock this afternoon, being postponed
from 10M).
Meanwhile, Wilson's democratic op
ponents predicted the present situat'
will have gloomy consequenees in the
fight in the coming primaries. And
republicans cheerfully agreed that the
fight will havo an effect.
Administration authorities regretted
it had been necessary to force con
gressmen into a fight, bill, they declared
thnt until congress nets, the president 's
bands will be tied.
It's VTp to Congress.
By Bond P. Geddes.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Washington, March 2. President
Wilson nnd congress grappled today in a.
finish fight over tho question of warn
ing Americans to keep off armed mer
chantmen. The outcome appeared doubt
ful. Upon it lnrgely rested American
relations with the central powers and
the fate of politicians and parties.
Tho president insists on an out and
out vote nnd expects this to bo opposed
to a warning.
Meanwhile diplomatic negotiations
over submarine warfare are at a stand
still, for the administration holds t
it cannot proceed until the grapple be
tween tho executive and legislative
branches is settled.
Conferences between the president,
and congressional leaders and meeting
of thd foreign and rules committees
wero nlatl today to determine the re
sult of tho fight. The issue is whether
congress shall vote at all unon warning
resolutions. Temporarily, the question
whether congress shall defeat warning
measures, as the president desires, is in
thn background.
The administration is trying to for
n record vote, holds t lint such a "show
down" is essential, that Germany mnr
know the president's linndi are upheld
in his stand for American rights.
Congressmen Would Dodire.
But opuosition to a vote is wide-
the president, but there was doubt as to "P "e repnouenns
the Louse. The president asked Mioor- foM f.h" '"T of I,"w7,.'or' by "'T,
ity Leader Mann to confer with him ins with the democratic, insurgents,"
this afternoon, presumably' because prevnm
Mann has been in favor of upholding
Afro nii vru;i t inna with nciiri'H
fvli,,.. rnntrvmpn nn (1.p tmiiis. in' swaying of the audieiieo as in the old
,it;..a in town and country villages, on! 10 to J days. As one of his hearers
the streets, in the store and by the fire- remarked after the lecture:
side, and returning to Washington just
after the publication of the Stone cor
respondence, it seemed almost as if Wil
son were seaking by direct mandate
from the Jjeople, despite the fact thatjou the seat"
"It is all very well for him to argue
that preparedness provokes war; but
where would the British empire be to
day if Kngland had not been prepared
him.
By Bond P. Geddes.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Washington, March 2. President
Wilson will make no further positive
muvo to gain a "show down" from
congress in the German situation. In
stead, according to a high authority, ho
has decided to leave it to congress and
the country, depending upon the coun
try to swing congress to his way of
thinking.
In other words, the president has de
termined to apply "watchful wait
ing" to the situation, with congress and
the country fighting it out. He believes
the country will bring congress around.
Conferring over the telephone with
Chairman Flood of the house foreign
committee, tho president reiterated
that he wants congress to act on the
"clean cut issue" of whether Amert
enmt shall bo warned off armed 8hiis.
He wants no compromise resolution
desires a vote on any wnrning resotu
tion, preferably that of Representative
Mel.emore.
Flood said that there is heavy pres
sure upon the committee to revise
Mel.emore measure beforo reporting it
The house which Mniority Lender
Kitrhin naid hud the "habit ef obedi
ence" to (he president's wishes rather
firmly embedded Is the ronin battle
ground. The aennto was disposed to
(Continued nn Pace Two I
S TIIE WEATIIER I
rfrtis itfooob
e -.'.i-.v -
,"d, V.VS'iT-T,-
Oregon: To
night and Friday
rain west, gen
erally fair est
tion; southerly
winds.
4,.
