' For Vancouver: - : - kvf-Y ;; '-V,
PRICE FIVE CENT3
14 PAGES HONOLULU, .TERRITORY OF HWA TiniRSDAY, AUGUST 3, 1916.-14 PAGES
Evening Bulletin. EsL ISM, No.
Hawaiian Star. VoL XXIV, No. V&
a-
FLESH
Lai: il
mm
UP
COZfl EES AS
'CisaiiiriLinsEO
ii;;nu3!Sfl;i
Groans -and Prayers From
-f Spectators as Execution is
Announced Complete
RELATIVES rIrJSED v
REQUEST FOR BODY
"I Die for 'My Country," Says
; Former Irish Leader as He
-:, ' ; Ascends Scaffold ,i
': (JjMeUUt Pros by rsdarsl Wlrslsss)
V. LONDON, Eng., Aug. 3. MI
die for my country,' v ;"-.
; With these words, uttered. with
out a tremor as he ascended 'the
scaffold, Roger Casement, shorn of
his lordly title and. condemned, to
death for high treason, was hang
ed at Pentonville jaij at 9 o'clock
this morning. .T:'-'.V ':C'"--
Hours: before" the time'-set for
the execution, a laire crowd, (com
posed both of sympathizers aiid
scoffers, gathered outside the jail.
The crowd was orderly but when
tt 8 o'clock tli e prison bell be
gan tolling in signal of the ap
proaching execution, mingled
cheers and groans' went up " from
the dense . mass ot spectators out
ride the prison gates. - The execu
tion was strjctly private. ! None but
officials were albwed to attend.
' Two priests accompanied Case
ment to the gallows, he having em
Ircccd Catholicism in his last hours.
According to an attendant who
flood near him. -ready to. support
J r l should he be overcome his last
'.crst with the exception of the
I raycrs which lie repeated until the
vcry.faal minute, were I die foir
try country
c'.'.rcrcous.
3-rcrrnv'rcaIftt
Ile slept. "Veil'
last
. At a r..:v;tc, after 9- this morn
ing' a. ii: ; stroke of the prison
tell inr.cjnced that, the tap.had
l:cn sprur... He was dead in a
very" f cwminutcs.":' ';- :
1 Dehmd the jeering crowd outside
the gates there was a group of 30
Irishmen and Irishwomen. When
the bell ; announced Casement's
death the group fell to their knees
r;:J prayed for the repose of. his
t--1 I ' . "
His counsel. Gain Duffy, re
quested on behalf of the relatives
that thev be triven the bodt for in
terment, but the request wasrVefus-j
cd and the. body was consignea to
a ted of. quicklime Jn the prison
yard in accordance ' with English
custom in case of treason. ;
raxing Government Asks Japan
to Withdraw Gunboat From;-
Harbor of Canton
. - - .y
(Special CaMe to Nippfl J1JL)
- TOKIO. Japan. Aug. 3. China has
made a. formal protest to the Japan
ese government, on account of Japan's
policy in sending warships to Chinese
port. The Japanese gunboat Saga
arrived in Canton harbor Wednesday,
and China immediately notified the
Japanese government and asked that
the gunboat leave the harbor.
In the protest China asserts that
with a Japanese gunboat In Canton
harbor, sent to " protect the Interests
.of Japanese, residents, the people
.cf Japan will become prejudiced
against the Chinese. They also made
a statement that the authorities : in
Canton are able to take care of the
sitratlon. ' .' : ' .. , "
At present revolutionary and gov
erirment troops are fighting against
the soldiers of ; Lung Chi Quan, who
refuses to. resign as governor of Kwan
tung province. He hag continually
fotight for the monarchy plan, and has
made a stubborn fight against a large
number of troops. . -
LATEST ESTIMATE SAYS
400 DIE IN BRUSH FIRES
: AmacUW Ptm by 7dnl 'Winlaul .
COBALT, Ontario, Aug. 3. Conser
vative estimates of the deaths caused
- by the forest fires in North Ontario
nrnr j.!ace the 'number, at 400. Tlie
f!r( s are still burning in some of the
-::;wocs localities. ' '
' NEW YORK STOCK
- MARKET TODAY
.v---:..-;-7:'..V Yetter
). : '. . -. ": Today: -. day.
Alaska Cold ........... 17?4 172
American Smelter ..V. 83 92.'
American Sugar Rfg....1M' 1095
American Tet. A Tef.;. 129 129H
Anaeonda Copper ...... ItVt IVz
AtcNaon . . . . . . . . . 1Q2'2: 102
Baldwin Loco. ......... 71 71
Baltimore A Ohio. ... . . 847, ' 85H
Bethlehem Steel ...... 430 ; 435
Calif. Petroleum ....... 19; l -18 ;
Canadian Pacific ...... 175H 175
CM.iSt. P. (St. Paul) 4'2 Wa
Colo. Fuel A. Iron 43 43 '
Crucible Steel 67 ; 68 .
Erie Common ......... 35 ! 35
General Electric .......167i 167
General Motors ... .
Great Northern Pfd.... 117 117 r
Inter.. Harv, N. J...... 1132 113'a
Kennecott Copper .... . .. 45 " 44'a
Lehigh P. R... ........ ." 77 ; 77
New York Central...... 103 ;. 103',i
Pennsylvania .......... 55 &SV
Ray Contol. 22 22;,
Southern Pacific ....... 97 88 ,..
Studebaker 1232 123
Tennessee Copper ..... 25 . i 25V i
Union Pacific 138 137
U. S. Steel :i . X.-: 86 ; 86Vi
U. B. Steel Pfd .'. 117 117ft
Utah , i . . J . . . . . , . ... 77!4 ' 1 77
Wsstem Union ........ 83V4 93 -
Westlnghouse 56 .-'56
-, BldtEJuUvidend. lUnquoted.
' -
217Q7C.1SES0F
i;:?aut PARivsis
: NEW YORK. N. Y, Aut' 8.
-f .Once agaig today a new record -f
4- vu ft in thu, infantile naralvsla 4-
f epidemic, 217 new cases being re- 4-
ported for : the past , 24 nours.
f There were 43 Heaths In this pe-
4- Eighty monkeys arrived here 4-4-
today from Central and South 4-4-
America.; Experiments will I hi 4-
4- mttAa on them with nerum In the 4-
4- hope .6f finding some, method ol :
4- combating the disease . f -. t
TflfiESIGPIlE
(Special Cahle to Nippn JUU.:.'-',
, TOKIO, Japan, ' Aug. 3-aarquis
Oknma announced this jnornlng that
It Gen. Terauchi and Baron Kato, the
latter a member of . the Doishlkal
party, can reacli . compromise
be will resign as .Japanese premier.
" Durlnz the cast - few -days the
strength of. Kato, has been apparent.
and it has not been assurea tnai
Terauchi wili 'be the next premier,
should Marauls Okuraa resign. It is
expected that Terauchi and Kato wm
hold a conference within the next few
days.
Cll
HAWAII OARU
(lisocWed Preei f PeUeral Wirelew) '
YOKOHAMA, Japan. Aug. 3. The
Japanese steamer Hawaii Maru, bound
for Tacoma, haj been sent into quar
antine here because of a severe out
break of cholera aboard.. There are
15 cases and four have died, all in the
steerage. Most or we passengers ai
fected are from" Maiflla. -
One year's supply of coal for New
York, loaded in 60-ton cars,'would
make a train reaching from that city
to Salt Lake City. - '
LEJHG
RIVALS AGREE
m ' ' ' i
DLERA AOOARD
in
QlRAlgEJi
Giase For Submarine Proves
- Absolutely nothing like; it ! i ,. ; '
;.-; ' It stands unique in the newspaper history of Honolulu. ' : ; ,
; v It proves conclusively mat star-tfuuexin rcaacr www dguw u"'fe.
when tliey see it,'-. '':' -. -v-5--':' '
v ' Already they are responding to the unusual opportunity presented
them in the submarine rhase contest, and their chase cards arc com
mencing to jiour in. ' ; ;
Tlie first'one to arrive from a reader living outside Honolulu came
from Private Frank, Co: H, 1st. Infantry', Schofield JJarracks. It's the
leader of a long line of chase cards reflecting the great interest, taken
in the contest by Star-Bulletin readers. - ,-
: One merchant alone handed out over two hundred chase cards
yesterday morning; several others gave out'almcst as many.
V Everybody has a chance to win the, $50 prize. Your -chance is as
good "asthc next. Get a ccy of Tuesday's Star-Bulletin, pick up
our scissors, cut out tlie little cruisers and submarines that appear in
the ads, follow the instmctions you Svill ftn'4 detailed on jvigc three .of
tliat issue, and become a candidate for the. gold prize. . : v
" Try it! You may be the lucky winner! ' v;-:?
WPKOHISEOF
0. 0. P. FAILIKli
Meeting. Called for Monday
'Night" Expected to Bring
v. v Affairs to Climax ; . -Li
CHAIRMAN iiRNDT HOPES
FOR HARMONIOUS OUTCOME
"Stand-Patters" Appear Will
ing to Say Nothing and Hold
i Committee' Places ; ,
Compromise plans to bring harmony
to the Republican "progressive" and
stand-pat" tactions arising, out of the
recent platform convention - have so
far failed of : success.. For - nearly
two - weeks the situation has drifted
along, with neither side, taking ac
tion, but a small-sized crisis is ap
oroachlne . 1 ?'f:;:
Next Monday night there is to be a
meeting of the territorial executive
committee for. brganftation and pre
Hminar. campaign Clans. If Chair
man Berndt adheresto his announc
ed '- and ; reiterated - determination, he
Will TtBfTI unless there Is a materia!
icorganizatioa of the; committee to
make it more representative -or .ine
business community." ; k
; iMt wk there was a plan afoot
which Involved the retirement or h
t:. Murray, fourth district, and E. J
fawford. fifth district, from the exe
cutive committee, and W. S. Kaka,
fifthvdistricL from the central com
mlttee In, the fourth district it was
proposed to substitute-John. Wise on
the executive, committee ana m uie
fifth district Alfred W, Eames was to
trr on the Executive committee.
These concessions,'; 'Republicans
were told, would satisfy the insistence
nr .'the "nroaTeeslves for 'changes in
the executive committee, with some
minor changes .in; the -central ; com
- . nai0Mi'VnWfti n'ohert w; Shinrle
linothxjwreaaked ? to. iwejtheir
Mini "atsillf-Dat-
teral to insure 'the retirfement of the
men for whom substitutes were cnos
en; . Alt last, week there were rumors
that the changes would be made, but
tp to today nobody had seen fit to
cfter, himself up as a ponucai sacrv
tee. . ;-.; r r :
iienre the ' nrosnect that --when
Chairman "BerndW calls'- the -meeting
Modv nleht there -will have been
no concessions. In which event he
will be faclnr a dilemma. . Republi
na wrvtft. . Mm to stav.A even
though. the committee as constituted
does not have tne connaence oi me
"business element. ; On the other
hand; he has made . public a declara-;
tion which amounted to an ultimatum
that he would resign unless there were'
a bona fide reorganization of .the.com"
mitttee. : . .." ";' '
. The "situation does not strika the
cldVtlme politicians as serious.' They
believe some slight concessions will
be made and Chairman. Berndt in-;
duced to remain. - As for the "stand-.
patters? they are ginng a peneci ex
rJWU of standing pat," and from
f - W b "onoi suin , v
their camp comes word that they are
waiting - with some gleeful expecta
tion to ' see. what happens on Mon
day night. : I - -.'V..;; :. ;v ; ; '
LONDON, England, ;Au. 3 The
widow of Joseph. Chamberlain, late
British statesman, was married today
tn the Rev. William Carnegie, rector
i of St, Margaret's. -. '". .--v- .'.:r
In order to pay for their tuition,
students at: Montana University ac4
cepted work, on a road in the. vicinity
and made a good Job of it .
TO MATERIALIZE
Popular
FINAL DECREE IN
TRUSTEESHIP TO
i
Appointment if Charles King
ScheduledJOr Katincauon
This Afternoon
NEW TRUSTEE WILL BE '
SUMMONED TO QUALIFY
Appeal to Supreme Court From
Judge Ashtcrd's Decision
. is Lxpecieu
Unless unroreieen circumstances
cause a delay Charles E. King will
be called upon to Qualify as a trustee
of the Bernrctr Pauahi Bishop Estate
in , Circu-"t Judge f Ashford's court at
ftVlock this afternoon. . ,
The will of the ate Mrs. Bishop pro
vides that the trnstees of her esute
be of tha Protestant religion, and this
will form probably the-most Important
question which wm . be asked or King
this ' afternoon. I U - : ; ; ,
"Yes. I am a Protestant,'' he laugh
ed. today, - in answer to a question.
VThere Is no doubt about that.' ' .
Upon the' completion of -King's ex
aminatlon as to his qualifications. At
torney E. C. Peters, representing the
Kamehameha' Alumni Association, ex
pects to present 'the 1 final; decree in
the matter of - the appointment or
Kinc a fitrustee.- which needs only
Circuit Judge Ashford's signature to
complete the ceremony. Peters was
retained by the association, at the time
itr suggested to ? Judge Ashford that
King be appointed to succeed S. M.
Hamon. reslened T : ; - :
The attorneys for the Bishop ; Es
tate have said that. Immediately upon
the signing of th final decree, they
w ill file an appeal - to the decision ot
Circuit Judge Ashford, which holds
that the circuit ludie sitting in canity.
and not a majority, of the Justices of
the supremw com has tne power w
fill- vacancies in Hhe bond of trus-
V According to jthattorneys,- the
ti us tees . maintain .that -the justices
Rtni havia thfr nower of.' appointment
tt vu learned - anon good authority
today that, at the' proper ' time, the
question . will arise as to wnewer tne
trustee have the-right to appeal from
Judge Ashford's decision..-,-
Two : Per; Cent ; Monthly rUnti
- Further Notice Declared -;By
Directors iU'
Directors of the I Walalua :Agrlcul
tnral Com Danv today fulfilled the ex
pectations of Merchant street and the
etr.ha.nee : brokers when In .meeting
they determined to double .the regu
lar monthly v dividend.' to. pay -2 '- per
cent Instead ot V vet cent. .This : is
to b effective August 15 and to con
tir.ne until further notice. ' . '
For some days past-it had ben ru
mored In : financial circles" that like
Ewa stock Walalua was to be placed
on a - 2 per. cent monthly basis and
followine such renorts came a -con
iMnM innnlrr for Walalua : stock.
That the reports wer soundly based
was ' established after the directors
met.' - . :. i
For some days past it nad been ru-
a capitalization of 4,600.t)00 divided
into 225.000 shares of a par; value of
20. Monthly dividends of to cents
per share have een ,paid, ; 45,ooo a
month, and : the :iew'basis: will re
quire monthly 'disbursements of $90.
000. Last year it paid . iz. per ceni
upon; its. stock. :i ::'p
EMPLOYES OF MARCONI
-WIRELESS ARE GIVEN ;
POLICIES FOR SERVICE
: An innovation for the protection of
employes has been inaugurated by the
Marconi: Wireless Company- in the
way of life insurance, according to a
letter recently Teceiven oy me loca
office.
'1 The;ietter stated that from now on
for all employes who have been with
the company a year, a $500 insurance
policy will be taken but and for all
employes who work for the company
three years a 11000 policy will be
taken out In both Instances the
premium will be paid by the company,
and in the case of an employe who
has joined a military organization
and is called out for service he will
not lose the policy and the position
which he held will be kept open until
he returns. - .i' .
As a deer-hunting state Vermont
now rivals Maine, with 6000 deer
killed in .1915, -compared with from
8000 to 10,000 in the Maine wilder-
nessCV- ;;' ,, .' ; :; : ' : '.;V ' : :
GO BEFDl COURT
. PER CENT BASIS
GEUSASSERT
STILL SlMFII
Field Headquarters: Official
Statement Declares Enemy
.. . Losses Huge
REVIEW OF MONTH OF
."BIG THRUST? ISSUED
Says British Casualties 230,-
000; While French Do
; Most of Fighting
. ;-v, .-.-;;-. , . :..
(Official Cablegram.) ,
GERMAN HELD HEADQUAR
TERS. August 2. A month has elaps
ed since the great Anglo-French thrust.
called in England the "great sweep.
was launched. During this time ac
pordinr : to the enemy's announce
ments beforehand, 7 the decision had
to be obtained under all circumstances
br the Entente Powers. -
On a 28-kilometer front the enemy
...
advanced four kilometers on an aver
age, but after . the experiences ot JUiy
20. 22 and 24. as well as those or July
30. thev cannot affirm that the German
Unit was even shaken at any place.
This "suocess" cost the untisn ai
1Ast 2.10.000 men. according to v,ery
conservative estimates. For the French
losses there is no basis for accurate
otimate. but since the French had
to do the v biggest part or tne jod,
vnA ataii takine Into consideration
their superior fighting; still the.total
enemy losses win reacn s&v.vuv.
; The German Josses cannot be com
pared to these figures, they are so
much smaller." ; : ; -. - .;
Durinc the slow progress of thtf of
fensive on the part of , the enemy the
Germans had time to construct hew
fortiflcations behind the Germans line
identical with those lost. : r- ,"": .
In order to illustrate the above-men-tinned
facts ft is stated that in! the
first ' month'B ? combat at Verdun .the
rtarmans ealned ' a double extent ot
there were such as couia be
w : 0 w - -. - . , - A-V.
District Attorney Claims Iden
tification of Billings as Man
: ; Who Carried Suitcase;.
. " ;'V . . "'""- .
(AssocUtcd Presi br Fedrl Wlreleti)
fc SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Aug. 3.
the police and the district attorney's
office in their, investigation of - the
bomb outrage, and it apparently has
ai th knot still tlshter-around two
of the five persons under Indictment
charged wjth compucity m tne piot
that led to the, preparednesa parade
outrage. .- . -; : 'J-
,;The district attorney announced last
night that a man, whom he calls
-John' McDaniels,' but - whom, he re
fused to IdenUf yr f er fear that "ale
Daniels' might come to some, harm,
has positively identified . Warren K.
Billings as the person seen at the spot
where the explosion occurred," carry
ing n anit rase, such as that which haS
been : proved to have contained the
high explosives that did tne wora oi
the plotters. . V 1 " ; "
"McDanlels" ? also has ; Identified
Thomas Mooney.. labor leader, as a
man he afterwards saw talking to Bil
lings at a nearby street corner, v; Tne
conversation is ' said to have ; taken
place before the explosion. -
PLEASES BOARD
At 3:30 this afternoon the territorial
board of health is holding is regular
monthly meeting, taking up routine
business and handling general matters
relative to health problems in the
Islands' ' ,-y.-:'
; Dr. J. S. B. Pratt, president of the
board, said this morning all the mem
bers are pleased that the U. S. Public
Health Service has ordered the dis
continuance only of inspection of ves
sels from- Hawaii arriving at . San
Francisco, and , has not directed that
Inspection of vessels com!ng here from
the mainland be dropped.
Dr. F. E. Troi ter, chief quarantine
officer of the IT. S. Public Health
Service for the territory, satd today
he Is much delighted with . Washing
ton's action relative to keeping up In
spection of vessels coming to this' port
and that be believes the ;' board of
health feels the same'way.r : ; -
IN BOMB PROBE
SSiIi
n ; mm Giir;.: s ::
EAST
HARD-PRESSED BY FRENCH AND BRITISH SOLDIERS,
WHO CLAIM SUBSTANTIAL GAINS IN SLOW TRENCH
FIGHTING AUSTRIANS CAPTURE ITALIAN SUBMARINE
AND MAKE CREW PRISONERS :
LONDON, Eng.. Aug. 3. One of the biggest air-raids of the:,
war was carried out by the Gernwhs in the early morning hours today'
when a fleet of six Zeppelins, presumably accompanied, by a large num-
her of aeroplanes, stole over, the eastern counties of England in the dark-
ness and dropped bombs "at ,a number of widely-separated point. ;
Up to the present time 80 bombs are known' to have been dropped, ,
but the only effect so far reported is the killing of nine Worses. ; Most
of the bombs are said to have dropped and exploded without much .
damage. -. '.: ,.-';''; --; ;; ; '--";:; ; ;.;V.l'-;:--;. v;: -f- ' ' - -
One of the Zeppelins, caught in the air by a sHaft of Kght from a
searchlight, ' was immediately fired on by anti-aircraft guns. It wa-i
thought at the time that this Zeppelin was crippled by the. explosives
shot from below, and . the report wa.s confirmed by a despatch from
Ymuiden. Holland, which says that a Zeppelin was sighted today off
the Dutch coast with a heavy-list, 'flying as if damaged. ;
---;:;' ;; -;.;; -- , ;: ' y -; . . .-
That Gcnnany is raiiling the English, coast almost nightly , with
Zeppelins and aeroplanes has been shown by the reports of the past two
weeks. A German official cablegram received today says : " t
"BERLIN. Gcnnany, Aug. 3.German airship squadron on the
night of -July 31 and August I attacked London and the eastern Eng
lish cotintics.V:IVmb$., were dropped with , success upon coast works,
defensive batteries and industrial establishments of military importance.'-
All the airships, though violently shelled, .returned safe.! They
were shelled by British sea-forces while approaching the coast." V
.? f y ' X . ;;;;;; ;- 'r - ' " -' ' :. V ..
French Llake Substantial Gems -"-V
: At Llonacu; Td!ic Vcrdnn Trcz:h
iMrUtiiil Pre ServlcW
PARIS, France, Attjj.;'3.N6rth$ the Sotninc today Gcrunn at
tciilfilnaderc TOsUtrarotuuI Monacu f afrrt Vcrtr,-rcpube( I
hv thA Frrm-h xntfliers V i.. -,1:' - '.'-..-. . . V. v-.
: ;.rhe French today were busy consolidating and .organizing their,
new positions between Monacu and Hemwood, in! terrain rccentlyovon.
On the right of the' Meuse today the French made substantial progress '
south of Fleury. v ' ; - . '. . " V '
' -Since August 1 the French' have captured 1100 Germans on this
bank of the river. ' 4 . - ' -' ' ' " '
.";-.':--; - - : . " .-. . - ' -.
; : . .-. i. - v . . , ; , v . ...... . - .-. t ' , . . v.
Berlin . Despatch Admit $ French .
-. , dained Trenches InHard Fijh&i
.i , (AMOittd Pnit Swric If f 4eral WlnleiiJy
' BERLIN", Germany; Aug. 3c-The French today penetrated the
German lines at Monacu farm. They also took a trench section north
of Monacu hamlet. North of Verdun there was considerable fighting
today, the French recapturing, a trench section they had lost to the
Germans.;:;,.' ;:.;' :: ';-i ;...,:, v...v,.--,--.;,--
: . w - - . - . . ...
Tvo British Vessels
- . llONDON, Eng.. Aug, 3.-The Uritish steamer Britannic and the
British sailing-vessel Margaret' Sutton have been sunk in the war-zone.
No statement as to the cause, or whether there were casualties, is given
out by the official press bureau. -- -; ; ; ;.; ; ;. N- '-. .
Behian Gunhoat Sinks German "k
: ;; l ;:r.'y"; : (AwocUted Press iserric by redsrsi Wtrel) .:.'
I IAVREV France, : Aug3. The Belgian gnbeat NVtta has sunk
the German' gunboat Graf von Gotzen on Lake Tanganyka. - v
Italian Submarine is
- (AMOeUted Press Serrk Sy fidml WbiUti) . ; ? f
r VIENNA, Italy, Aug. 3. The Itajian" submarine Giacinto Pulino,
which has been operating in the Adriatic Sea, has been captured in the
northern part of the sea and taken to Pola with 21 prisoners. . :
Official
German
War
GERMAN HEADQUARTERS, Aug.
2. -Verv stronz enemv forces attacked
without success the Maurepay-iector
to the Somme but suffered bloody fail
ures from the rapid counter attacks
by German battalions Separate ene
my enterprise against, Farm Monacu.
.The enemy advanced to our completely-destroyed
trench on the hl?h
road from Marlcourt to Clery.. Ene
my's losses were considerable. Local
engagements in Belloy and Estrees.
East of Me use we progressed north
west and west or Fortress Thiaumont
and captured the mountain top north
east of "Fortress SonviUe, and forced
the enemy into Laufee wood We cap
tured ID un wounded officers, 1923 men
and 14 machine guns; English patrols
especially - active in the sectors of
Ypers and salient but everywhere they
are being repulsed. Enemy air attack
against villages behind; the- northern
front was' repeated "but no military
damage worth mentioning. The losses
br Firftl WlrlM . r ,
Are Sunk
.if
are among civilians, v ;iJ :
Reported that aeroplane on July 31,
in Arlon, Belgium, bombarded Jesuit
monastery and convent , ' :
Our anti-aircraft gun fire brought
down ' three bstile aeroplanes. One
rorth of Arras, one southwest of Ba
paume and, the other near . Pozleres.
Another was shot down In an air com
bat near Monthois. " ! ;
East front: On the northern front
there are no incidents of Importance
occurring. Russian attacks on both
eides of Nobel Jake repeated with in
creased forces and extended into the
district of . Lubiessow, but-flatly re
pulsed." Several attack in Stochod-.
knee, northeast of Kovel railroad."'
broke down. Enemy without regard Jo
losses, again and again stormed our
positions between Uttoniez and Thrya,
all effTrts being futile.- - - , : '
Bothmer's army: Enemy's attacks
west of Vlmlovczyk and near V.'
"nlov failed.
Captured
Statement
