THE ENTERPRISE.
VOL. 19 MALTA. MONTANA; THURSDAY, AU US 3-9 -Nmo=.1
A~NOTHERI OLM 'TIMERm TON~IGHT aI IkING A EMAHJI I'AV .... -
AaI~tTiii4 OLD) TIMIER
('t4()SSES GREAT DIVIDE.
Death, the grim reaper that is no0
respe'cter of person, has again in
vaded Phittips county since our last
issue and removed from his loved
onies the spirit of Thomas Bernard
O'Reilly of Dodson. Funeral services
were conducted from the O'Reilly
home in D~odson Monday and were
under the auspices of Father Pettit
of the Catholic church, the deceased
having been a devout member of
that church all of his life.
Thomas Bermiard O'Reilly was
born in Pireboudett, Province of
Quebec. Canada, April 2nd, 1839.
He was married Junie 13th, 1867, to
Mary Ann Best at Brockville, Ont.
The family came to Malta ini 1895
and have ever since resided in and
near this city. Surviving are the
widow, four sons, three daughters,',
eleven grandchildren and three sis-:
ters. The children are Joseph, John;
of Sasgatoon, Caniada; James Henry l
of Exeter; Percy Raymond and Thos.'
Bernard of Dodson; Mrs. James Fin-'
eran of Wagner, and Mrs. 1aanlel'
Nicholson andm Mrs. Edgar Lee of
Dodson. !
Not only will the geniatl presence s
of T. B. O'Reilly he greatly missed' a
by his relatives, but our citizens will
greatly miss the smiling face 'of thisr
gray haired old gentleman, who al-I
ways had a kind word for all and p
was one of the best boosters Phil- I1
lips counmty ever had. i
''rWIpl.l1 Tl'(NS OF laft'
There is no longer any questioni r,
about Circle Diamonid flour not fill-' u
ing a long felt want in Malta as the it
past week the Malta Milling corn
pany has sold twelve tonis of their a
fluor to local conisunmers. J. F. mi
Kildufft purchmased 7½/ toiis, B. I).
Phillips 2 toiis amnd the other half' ti
ton was divided among local mer
chants, The flouti is holding up well
and it is certainly well worth the am
nionev. The mill is running daily at
to ire Itill capacity and yet they 'can gt
not keep up with their orders.
ill',. IAMA'l'oN OlH'h 'l.-1: IS l4ElIS.' dl
A. . Davils, director and chiief en-t
glueed of the service, of Washing-1tu
tuti. 1). (`., aind F. E. Weyuuout~hchiel' 1,at
01 ei)05truction, of Dlenver, ('olo., i
were in MValta this wek anid in corn- sa
hairy with Projector' Manager d a
SclilI edit madle a I our of the entire d
Milk Rtiver' project fromn Dodsomi dan, hii
to C larg'ow. Thmes were welt pleased a
with ith~e' coistr mf (ot 10 wiomrk as it Thi
gouing ft~rward. wi
The FIrst National Bn
MALTA, MONTANA
TRANSACTS
A General Banking Business
ACCEPTS DEPOSITS
Of Individuals, Firms and Corporations upon
Favorable Terms -
LOANS MONEY Olt APPROVED SECURITY
MAKES FARM LOANS
HAS SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES TO RENT, $2 A YEAR
PAYS INTEREST ON TIME DE3POSITS
WE INVITE YOUR ACCOUNT
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK~
Memnber Fe'deral Reserve Dank of the United States.
MALTA, MONTANA
$a~ss~sa:$ass $'$l'$$$$$$$$$$s$ss$$;;;s"ssss$s$$s; $s;;ssjsjj
~If you want information
40 As to the workingo of our plan tor a(ccumulatinig
money; if you want specific facts as t~o just how its
: systematic use will benefit YOU, conic righlt inl--w(
S shaill appreciate the opportunity of explaininig to o
S you the full details. No need of waiting until you a re
40. ready to open an account, come in today. When you
S know the many ways in which this plan will help I
you accumulate faster, you will be more anxious to
: get started. f
M~ an
8I;IsS$S$;$S;s; s sss=$ssss$s~sssas; Sa$$5sssssassss;ý$s>< h
The New York Ladies' Minstrel:
company of 30 people, the only showi
lot its kind that has ever playedl it
the west and is positively the tirsi
appearance in Malta. Don't fail tc
see the big beauty chorus. Tent lo
ca ted at old Eagles' hail grounds on
Fifth avenue south. Doors open at
7:30, show at 8:80.
IAN IlOUNT) l)EAIJ.
Monday noon a man was round
dead in the vault of the Great North
ern toilet by some parties employed
in building the new elevator. The
news was quickly conveyed to Cor
oner Tucker, who removed the re
mtaints to the undertaking parlors
where they were prepared for burial.
which took place the following day.
The man has been around Malta
for several months and went by the
name of Samg Hall. and had been em
ployed by various flockmasters of the
county. He was subjected to faint
ing spells and is the same man who
was takeni before Judge Wilson a
short time ago to see what could be
done for hin In the way of state aid.
That a place such as the Great
Northern railroadl maintains is a
shame and a curse to the community,
and the deceased is the third man!
that has been found in the vault. The'
railroad company is strong on "Safe
ty First." hut weak when it conies to
putting it into practice. It wouldf
look like it is up to the city council
to do something that would niake!
the Great Northern remove such a !
death, trap as the one hy the track.
While they are lookinig up the rail: I
road company it might well to look
up some of the same kind of traps.
in thie businiess section of town.I
Malta has a first class waterworksl
and sewerage system and it would:
not work a very great hardship on
any one to connect up with them aiid~
th us eliminate all such danigers.
C.U. Dresilets of Great Frails, has
acceptedi a positioni at Murray's drug
Store. Toni Qually' has resigned to
go east for a spell.
During their si np in Malt a ,nester-
lay H. R. Spoonier of llavre, and his'
3. N. I rain crew werte pleasantly en
.ertainedi by Emanu iel Skiower, wvl,t
unit thew (Jli Iii the lmilie aiiid alsi
iho ut the city showing thire: tt,
otis pointIs of imnterest. IVI r. Sp)ooner
;aid lie liad~ hbee a pasms(gelmmu, ('ots i
lnctor tliroughm Malia. lot nearlya
I uarter of a cent or, houI thims wa .
is firsi olpmm'i ii nil y ofI seeing wvlat
great c~ountry' we really ha~d here.
'lie gentlemen were cailed here as
ditie~sses ill a case ini justice Coutiri
MAI~NG A l-'t3IM AY
si IN Mik RIlVERl V~ALLEY
TaL.C. Edwards is not only a
trjsuccessful b~usinsjss man but is year
ly proving himself to lie a _ dcen
t~ilic farmner as well, is now an as
Ssured fact.
t A trip Tuesday night across the
river to the Edwards farm in comn
pany with P. A. Laranmy and the
owner of the farm convinced a re
tporter for this paper that Mr. Ed
-.wards certainly knows how to farm
Iright and not only that but people
Sdaily come to him for advice In farm
matters, so we will not be surprised
to hear of him writing farm articles
for the leading newspapers soon, and
be in the same class with Prof. Shaw
and others.
A Bit of History.
The Edwards farm consists of 400
acres of good tillable land as level
as a floor and is situated just across
the river from Malta and runs clear
back to the foot hills. In the be
glutning Mr. Edwards purchased the
old1 Dan Kenvon homestead of 160
acres including the former residence
of Mr. Kenyon. To this later he
added the homestead of Louis Du
hois and still later a desert claim of
Mrs. Davidson's. This made the farm
complete to 400 acres. At present
the portion of the land near the hills
contains a flue haty meadow where
two hundred tons of the finest hay
ill the valley is being put up this
1year. The portion nlear tile county
road is in wheat and tihe yield from
this grain has been (tstiniated at
about two thousand bushels, already
land the wheat at $1.00 per bushel,
one caln readily figure what the farm
Iwill brinlg the owner this year.
IWaith hay selling at $10.00) per ton
ilv figure what the f'armi will bring
the owner thisi year.
How It Was Dlone.
The abtove farmt htas not b~een al
lowed to run itself byv an mioeanis. It
htas heeni runl by thle ownter andt hunl
dredls of' doltarsa have bieci spenlt for
irrigation (itiches unititi today lie has
it so tutnter control tihat 1)ne mian can
Irrig~at f our hunldredl acrs s uccexss
fitly a lone. The cost. of tie waler
ittis season~ was $1 .00 tper acre toot
an httti used .11 acite fet. so it w ill
lie seen thatt the cost was tiot. so vre.t
a fter the!irrigatiit~n syv~tetni wave ittl
irrigate the tarot with the liot of a i
comtileltet networtk of stoaltir ltitcis. %
It will pay onyotte tot l ake a looktt i
.1)as
1t. I'hl' i fe I lestŽ hbrlies of '1'Pdl , St ev-r
and Fet xi nrek, aged S. 1) amd 1 2
*years r eSpectively. niund i ogetlier a
ilie hotti ton of a reservoir near (IA ao
Sgow, horn~ mute testimtony of a des
lienate struggle in which two of ttic
boys gave u p Iiheir lives in a va ii
®effort to save that of the thiord. Alt
were drowned Sundca,' and their hod
its were recoveredl Mvondav morning.
The hoys were brother~s, sons of II
Prank Jitrek, who lives oni a home
stead seven ittiles southwest o1' Glas
*gow,. They went hathing in af reser
vi ~r ont the Oscar Johnson p~lace near
thit tr hiolne. Notne of thenm could
swima, buit tlte water near the edges
of the reservoir was not deep.
No one. saw what happened, bot
the position of the bodies and their
Yattitudes told the story. One of the
b oys got beyond his depth, evidently
the youngest. The other boys went
g0t. ontce to his assistance, not think
ing 0of the danger to theniselves hut
only of saving the younger child.
A sister of the hoys went later to
look for them. She found their
clothes on the bank of the reservoir
and looked for them in the water.
They were not to he seen. She htr
vied home and told her parents.
Coroner Peterson went to the
1scene of the drowning Monday morn
ing, and with the assistaance of
neighbors, the bodies of the boys
Were recovered. Funeral services
were held Tuesday. -
SU'3MMoE S~CHfOOL, OPENS
Tetri-county teacher sume
school and institute convenedl in
Glasgow Monday with about seventy
five teachers enrolled at the open- inseiointefronadt
ers coming in on trains during the1
day, Monday night and Tuesdayj
tnornl ng.
The counties of Valley, Sheridan
anid Phillips have combined this year
in a four-weeks course of normal
school instruction under a corpsa of
instructors front this and otlier
north western states. N
The forenoon of Motnday was tain
en up ini the Preliminary wtork orN
registering or enrolling lthe visiting N
teachers and assigning them to their N
places of entertainmenet, where pre-N
viouts arrangemen1t5 had niot heeti
made. N
In the afternoon the regular pro
gramt of the Summer school session N
was carried out for the first time to
ha tel a rizte thie teachers with theN
routine work.N
George Morgan had the mnisfor
tune to lose a valuahle horse util
near the Cohurtn bridge one tday last Ut
week . The horse dropped dead jtust lii
east of the bridge. 11
at
The good roads make it very con- '
venient for auto parties and every
evening from a dozen to fifteen cars
can be seen hitting the trail for tine
cool breezes around Bowdoin Lake. wi
B. I-f, Koke i aighsgant
harvested this week.hvn i ri iti
1\lity htas *Judge Utter always
a Sil~le a large jury list, and then ex.
,r ilt oni-half' to two-thirdls of
n- Why has lie offered to advance
5- iiiOiiei to ptersons (ailed to serve as
jtrotrs?
1eTh'Ie IReason,3
ty calling a large jury list he
li- collies in contact with more IJCople.
te alid at the expense of the taxpayers
Sis thus ena bled to use his court for
political lpurposes.
By excusing a great number of
le those sitnnnioited to act asjuos
ewith a few words expressed for pure
lyly political reasons, he endeavors to
lyimpress upon them the inconven
d gence which they will experiensce by
Sbeing compelled to act as jurymien at
that. time, and that he being beeatrncsaiys are public
U lInconvenience, and at the expense of
.1 the tax payer excuses theni, hoping
that lie hias made another vote for
s hnimseli'. andi~ disregarding the tact,
r that the trial of cases is delayed, .and
eaddit lonalI expense insurred.
.Iiitdge tUtter has never inftormied
ethe persons serving as jurors that
they are enititled to go to the clerk
ofthIle court and draw their mileage
tor one w~ay upon arrival. andl their
per dlieni every day for each day's at
Stendance, hut has informed thenm
from the bench that lie will advance
a small portion thereof as a personal
favor. thereby endeavoring toplace
the nieiners of the jury under sonic
obl gal ion to him, the conmpensation
beiing I heir vote when the judge is
lip for re-electtoti
The'lwiestalt..
Tl'l, expense incurredi foi each
juror Iin at teindance is in the neigh
borhiood of fromi fifteen to t wentIy
dol lar s, aii l as all thle courit expenise;
of tie curious counties masi htIli
ioiine hy tie lax payers, it is iieetl
less to nay that the nniiecessarv
court expenses' is anl additioinal bur
deni ntpiul lieiui
TIhe ltemiedh.
Lt its ue veri ehfort t la lina
inulia ipoii till' heaiti that is iutiipe-
ieult. eunt hltpull'~ 11ot ise his d'iiin
for Iuliti cii puiposes. at itie ixpeilsi
of lin pour iax layer, one that will
not a tro jolly thi publitc lw lu tink-u
lu i ghat lie is ac tiug for i loin and
llii J: 'tone, wt'en the realI reason is
1'o1ty seluishi andi peltit hui , one hat
iota. juistice fairly aiid i1t elligeuiily,
i titslecli ie o1 ilie iciisetulislces,
'i~tt poliilitical or othierwise, ziuii
tin a nd( onily thoni will c'ourt expelus
ti,,e red lctd an sio istice iiiparitallv
ilislienseil, thle oniute deied e reiii
d`ry is tine bailtli and it is o' dutyii
nCast thin i tatlot fir J1i~oh Hurlrey
iiil eliutiuiiite high couit exlieuse't
Mid olint iical cnIi" iii ipf i iii lii ath li
Iii itci.
t Vi it idS erapetitions Signled by tlie
011 j'oisote nunnier of voters and~ pray
_ ii. for the initiation of a certa in
an easure to he hiereinafter moire par
-i( oclar ly d escrilied, have b~eeni dlly
tl id regularly tiled in thie office of
lthe secretary of state within the timeii
lseuired by the (2onstji tution of tlie
-,site 01. Montana; and
W.~her eas, the governor of the slate
ir :s requi red by law to issue his proc
hi lanation announcing the filing of
lv such petitions;
ýtNow, Therefore, I, S. V. Stewart,
as goivern~or 01 the state of1 Montana.
hitg hereby proclaim the filing of such
iltitionls for the subnmissioii to the
o quailified' foroters of the state of Mon
ir tal o their approval or ejectiton,
it;tthe regular electioni to lie helId on
thle seventh day of Novembler, A D.
19 6, ot a bill! for till act entitled:
'An act establishing a state itli
l'iii. comminssioni and regullatinig box
ng slid sparring in thle statte of Moll
ti tina"
In witness whereof I hni' e here'un
to let my hand and caulseil the Great
Seali of the state to lie affixed.
D~one at Helena, the captatsl. this
thle eighteenth~ day of July, in thle
year of our Lord one thousandi nine
hundred sixteen, and 01. tie hile
eendence of the United States ofI
t.i ltirica thte one hundred forty-first.
S. V. STIE\VARlT'.
-Iii the Lioverntor.
A. M. ALDRState
Secretary oof Stile.j
MFALTA (4RAIN MARI-Ulk
tlhisi mlornlilg's quotat i ons ate :1
Ni S pring Whleat
No. 2..............
Winiter 'Wlheat I
Noi. 2, hard ..................1.09
Nou. .3 hard................... 1.04.
\'o. t, Durhalt.........1.05
Nii. 2, Durltani.............. .9
No. I........................ 1. 9
Oats
No. I............... .. ....7
this noon. They have ai gooid hand
and the company presenlts quite stn
attractive appearance in their new
costumes.
NOTI 'E
All persons who have extra rot)ms
which they will rent duritig the,
thautauqua August 10 to 15, willI
please notify the secretary of the
(onimiercial club or phone 93. ~
BROTHER VAN IN THI4 ('[TV"
ys W. XV. VanOrsdel, knlownl to al-i
ni ost every' marl, woman anithil l
ofall over northwestern Montana as,
ce 'IJs'oller' Van," was spending a fewl
irs hours inl Malta Wednesday and
checking up church matters with
1e Rev. ('ookinghrani Always happy~
e" this grand old gentleman makes the;
rs worldl a lot better and the people
)r s well just by circulating among us
tf with hils wealth of good stories and
Scheering greetings for all.
"Brother Vain" has a host o1'
o~ friends in Malta who are always glad
to heave him call.
TEN DOLLAIRi AND) (t(JtTS.
C
r Erick Holmherg supposed g.to be
if o)1 his way to Hinsdale, and who was
g arrested by officer Spooner on train
r No. 4 one night last week and put
off [lhe railroad train at Dodson, was
1 givein a hearing in Judge Wilson's
court yesterday morning. The prs
1 oner was In a whole lot calmer moor)
tthan the night when lie terrified the
k passengers on tile train by flourish
P lng a gun, etc., and was not repre
r seilted by counsel. but (lidt the talk
- lug himself'.
Tlhe state was represeinted by
C'ounty Attoirney Wolfe, who made I
I ain able nad conlvincing address to,
the jury, who later found tihe de- I
fendant guilty as charged, and ilned
1hi at ten days in jail and the costs of t
4tire case, wthich will hold hirin in!
WValteir Day's boarding House about Ja
all summeri.
Co('untlctor Spoonier anld tire train t E
crew ?ippreared in court as witnriessies
agaibrat IHolmberg and t heir story;I
was illt dten led by the de erndinc it
It wilt Ite r'ftiieittlei'er II at t fet
tear's agot ai li tywas paLs'sed t Itht lii
Monltanta slate legieti ore givtilrg hep
(ltlnuclti' 01 railroad tri't 'th l ate
power lto nrake atrr'ests ase anit lieat
otliicer, theretfore. l'ollrcter' Spttli'rit' I"
itas at'tirtg enrtirely righ~t tttlI'lt lit' ii
restedi Hoitliter g on fit( train tt ai nd
t'Nl'I'hl:) ll hlh'I'hhIi-\ 'lN Hli'l('I
'I it, pas 3'.totr i tw i I t u s i~itt' Suiid , '
e el's g It t tetng titttit'.tli
itne tittl' l~Viii V 1; It '' l t ii ilit ii itt tIllII,
it'lilil /\Iilr'tlf i t''' ii g ll Il Itr'i w 11ii \ It it
press. 1ol ig hatr:'" ig. S n Iii
ISOME EASY DISHES FOR
* THE HOUSEWIFE IN
* HOT WEATHER
Campbell's and Van Camp's Soups
Canned Lobster
* Canned Crab
Canned Tuna Fish
Canned Sardines (All kinds)
Canned Salmon
Canned Shrimp
Canned Dried Beef
Canned Corned Beef
Canned Roast Beef
Canned Veal Loaf
Canned Vienna Vienna Sausage
Canned Deviled Meat
Canned Chilli Con Camne
Canned Pork and Beans
Canned Sweet Potatoes
Canned Asparagus Tips
Canned French Peas
Canned Mushroons
Grape Juice
COOKIES PLAIN AND FANCY IN BULK OR
PACKAGE
Grape JuiceI
Pineapple Juice
ºThe above is just a small list of what our com
plete stock comprises. For prompt service and
quick delivery call No. 116.
I Illis ºBlumenthal
(ºO~iI
COUJNTY EXHIBIT AT'
'I ONTANA STATE FAIR.
lcI Helena, Mont., Aug. 2.----Already
ti5' 2 7 counties have announced that
wI they will make exhibits at the state
id1fair this lit'---the best fair ever to
:h' be held in Montana--on appropria
sly tiflns mtade by their County commis
Le; sioners, uinder the law allowing such
le aplpropriations up to the sumi of
is $1,000.
d Now is the time for the other
counties to make state fair appro
prations, pritos and plani their exhibits.
dit has been dlemonstr~ated that $390
dwill provide at splendid exhibit, a
prize winning exhibit, it' the money is
spent upon the judicious collection
of materials. andl a hustling, well
qualified mani is ptut in char'ge.
e No county (call afford to overlook
S the state t'aii' as the one great land
n and agricultural and livestock adver
*t tiseing agency ill the state. The ef'
f orts Secriary It. S. Skinner is Inak"
Rlug to excell former state lairs, and
some of tihere have been dandies, will
r1 surely make it the big noilse.
e The noise will he heard all over
thIle lUitedl States by land buyers and
-prospe'ctive settlers. They will be
-coming here in thousands every year
now for somle yea rs. an uclounties
y that make exhibits at the fair will
e have soilel hing immediately avail
,able andtilanlgible to attract their at
-tenit ion, antd conclusively dlemon -
I stratf' aba the farlmls of thle ('ounttry
fwill do. It. wvill pay.
11Mont ana's winnings atI thet Pan
attus-P'acilic explositiotn at San Fran
(tl5Co, inludi ( ilg ithri'e granld prizes
Iltind Inlani nmedals, lladle t lei state'.,;
4,spleniit d resources and fertilei landui
known.I State fair' exhuibits will ad
I io lr thbest line stheavc's of wh eat.
;Ind out' l'ushel of wheat tile lar'go Al
and must va'luabile prtemliuml~ ever atif
'redllc it salMne fai' will he uawn 'ledl,
,l tig Pull tractor wortht $7'30.
E' erey whet'e' i'a tlt (- in thl t ag4 ,
Sug5 t io ftry fio' ltis. Monti na hieai
!;,- ri tSan 12111 m ltisco wI ih her
w het.l It will lie. ''one whteat" that
tellss every otheru exhiblit it hito' stat,
I tnl takeIis lh' tuill tra tort.
Ilit t :1( it~ lilltitll tall t xht ibitt (i
TH . ti li-otI to 'eitrlt't Fr tair
I .- tue ~ li ttg htlt t hillisla ' i~tltytan
I wmtilles Ir' ll titi get it I it 1114 a et
1( l'< t ul. : i aill 'ili' . Rlluls t uh- l tu
have ar beag Il ut~ciI re int hleto Malt
wucltio il elotie Iu tarent finchs.om
