Sir- - V )
rHE "WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and warmer today ; to-morrow fair,
followed by showers in afternoon.
Highest temperature yesterday, 78; lowett, 67.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pace 10.
IT SHINES FOB ALL
VOL LXXXIII. NO. 338.
NEW YORK, THyRSDAY, AUGUST 3, 1916. Copyright, 191. by thr Sun rrlwllap and PubtoMtw As.soctamm.
ONE CENT
la Greater New York, 1 Eliewhere
Jersey llr and Newark. I TWO CENT.
ilRRniwnRRnRRRRRRRRRRWi' i HHiflP
RUSSIANS GAIN;
10 MILES IN BIG)
DR1VE0N KOVELj
General Kuli'diue's Troops i
IWi On; Now in Sight of
Strategic roint.
OF ENVELOPMENT
Oeiinuns in North May Be
Cut Off Quickly From
Austriiuis in South.
I? KIN FOKCEM ENTS AT
STOKHOD MOWED DOWN
Immediate Aim In for Ko-vel-Lemberg
llailway
Would Split Lines.
!Nrx)N, Auk. I. According to unof
ficial despatches received from I'rtro
grad to-night the Russian advance
aMliut Kovel continue, den. Kale
dlne's troops, the despatches )', have
pushed forward ten miles alnce they
crossed the bend of the Stokbod River,
which would place them only ten mtlei
from Koels
Interest Is now .centred In the predict
mrnt of Gen. von Bothmer's army. These
forces arc threatened on the northern
Hank hy the Russian preuure between
Kve anil Urody and at the southern end
cf the line by (Sen. l.etchttiky's advance
toward S aulslau and across the Delatyn-
jsoionltxa Hallway.
II thus appears that umess Oen, von .
BoUuncr acts promptly he Is in .tanner ,
of envelopment. In addition, should !
r.n u-,.i.ii i..
Kowl..unberg Railway direct lommu-
n catlon between the tSermans in the 1
i.orth and the Austrlans In the south
In the south
ON
would be decttoyed
RUSSIANS DR1V
Teuton Reported aa Retiring;
l.lnr of Defrnre Along; Bug.
Petkociiad. Aug. :. The ultimate
Husjlan occupation of Kovct and Lem-
lerg and the retirement of the Austro-
Oerman line of defence beyond the nug
'wruea nere as u lore-
ui; rUe 10 30,ne speculation as to the possl- Fn invalids and they subsciuently died
The armies of Oens. von Uoehin-Lrniol. bltlty that a net had been Hung actus They looked upon Casement as the.r
II and von I-lnslngen. which Iiav. been the channel. murderer
kadly crippled in tnelr efforts to hold For several hours befoi the begin- Stir U tliere any ground, public or
back the advancing right wing of Gen. , nlng of her final dah the Deutschland private, so far as we know, which can
IlruslloK's forces, have been forced to lay in a secluded leti.-at near Tangiur he quoted In mitigation of Casement's
ittteat to a point which leaves open the Island, about fifty miles above Cape crime, and I do not think any (ioveru
.ipproaohce to these two Importautl Henry. The steamer Someiset and the meiit doing Its duty could Interfere with
centre", and the Russians In both re-1 Government buoy tender Ivj L ported tho sentence which ha been passed on
!oti have begun an encircling movement, ' during the early afternoon that they hud ' him."
which Is slowly, but apparently lrreslst- pasaed her at that point The re. boat 1
lbl) do I tig li, upon the two rltlei. I then took a position near the dividing I'rUoiitr Serins l'n.'oncernel.
Mlaht Barrier to Kovel.
ler.nans of the
Eartiy-Kovel and novno-Kove
In conjunction with the Ruisl
nrcusht from the south In
1M ti t- .'.I, i.i . .
jsuiiiiii iiski. ug.n oi vwiicn are
k1t,.iifiitK. i).i-.lnt,ln. ,1a,.l. ll Clm. I
man counter attacks, la considered as
making the outcome assured.
Advancing on Lesaberrf.
The operations against the Oern.ans
also are having an Important effect In
farllltntlns the advance against the Aus
trlans defending Lemberg, since they
eiulile the Russians to exert pressure I
aiulnst the Austrian left flank and In
cuate that brought upon Lemberg from
Bro.lv and from the south, where Gen.
Luhltiky's troops arc successfully
traversing the Hooded Dniester region
ind are threatening the Gallclan capital
along the route leading through Stan
If l.iu and Hallch.
It Is reported unofficially that the
Hermans have already begun their re
t'rement from Kovel and are preparing
'o fall bark on Rrest-Lttovsk, Cholm
and the general line of defence follow
ing Hie Bug River.
GAINS AT VERDUN.
Ftokhod crossings and the recently an- "', i . L7 i .. ' no longer I oks dejected or depressed WAsittNnTos, Auk. 2 Whether pari-. mg m ine .New otk regiments and
i.ounced Husslan crossing of the river. "a, lne 1, , ,, . , Mnu'" J" ''r""' and betrays no emotion as the hour for n-t members like II or not the marble1 In full rharge of issuing the Cn
leaves no Important line of defence be- r!1"' , , T! 'h L''!? Ji!','!! I1"1" execution approaches. He eats well. 1 flgure' of feare In the House of Itepre-1 Slates equipment to the State organ
fore Kovel except a natural barrier con-, a.IMl .ai '.,t:a"rt.?" '? ",H.ki' ? ,f "1 favoring fruit and Iced drinks. , 1' mntlve wears a coat of mall. tlon.
ilitlng of a wide swamp, which un- ""fr ru"" "" ' "r I Mr. Duffy Is resiMinsllile for the state- when the draper- covering the wors I , apt. Haskell is regarded by those
doubtedly will retard the Russian prog. P11"" , again lie.-uieii souiii um.i sue t , t'asement bus ombraced the , of i.aui nartlett was drawn back with,"''" know him a an efficient and cner-
Pf I a feast the Tlnitnins and then both Cn10c relfl()n 1K.e . , of thp I , ' ""Ve "emnonles to-day the .lie-1 Ketlc officer anH bring, to the State the
H,.t .1 ,.m.. mm .1.. I vesseli put on full speed abend toward ,.. ...-. ....., wLi..,j 7n,,,,lP. '' 'LV. .' ""L'V... ,.f i2A nrolectlnr eM'-rlence of twenty years service un.
along the route midway between the I J 1'": ..KU.','," L ' tlons and dally ministration, from a ,?," ,,? ' u, disclosed in the centre of , der varied conditions."
h.... j ...and the undersea rreignter quicgiy
" r r iinuiil iTmmmm
Retire In flaa Plre.
LoNPOS, Aug. S. Without In any way
minlhlng the vigor of their struggle
In the .s'omme region, both the French
and the Hermans suddenly have resumed
violent righting at Verdun. The British
f'irc's were comparatively Inactive, con
olidatltig the ground won on Sunday
nd apparently waiting for the French
to make further progress south of the
Bomme,
The Germans began this latest offen
Us Hiid the French replied by making
Iron counter attacks, with the result
that both made advances. Beginning In
the mile front between Vaux-le-Chnpltre
snd f'htnols woods, they mado attueks
shlrb. as the action developed engaged
the line for the distance of another mile
toward the east to a point south of Dam
loup From Vaux-le-chapltrc to Che
nois tho Germans made gains, tho French
'Hiring as clouds of asphyxiating gnses
made tenure of their position Impossible.
S'i much Is conceded by the French
nfnilbl rn.. 1..,, t V.. lnr...nn ........ In
" " '" wn
mat tney made progress west nnd north-
t of Thlaumont Ii contradicted.
The renlv lo th Chenol. attack wn. .
vigorous general attack by the French
from the Mtuse to Fleury. The attacks
wire directed at tho woods Just east of
Vacherauvllle. enemy trenches west and
"Wi of the Thlaumont work and a po.
'HKn In the ravine south of Fleury, The
remit, according to the French official
:ate.ment, was the capture of several
trrnchei and organised polnta of sup
r"rl, Ten machine guni and (-00 prls
'.rfrs were taken. The Germans made a
counter attack at Vacherauvlll, but
're repulsed hy grenades.
It Is believed the next heavy fighting
it. Con I In nd on Second Pag. ,
ROGER CASEMENT, to be
hanged to-day lit England
for his part in the recent Irish
revolt.
i -,.rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr1
1
l
I
Copyright llrosn It Dawson.
SUBMARINE DASHES
TO SEA UNOBSERVED
With No Moon, Deiitschland
In Relieved to Have More
Than Even ('liuiicc.
.Norfolk, Va Aug. 2. The Deiitsi.li
land, the ! lam German submarine,
fussed mil nf tht Vlrvlfil,. emies jit R -3D
to-night, apparently unobserved by h(-
tile war erart
With no iiuioii, It was believed there
waa more than an even chance that the
vej-ael could set away without detection
b' e
..H'r ' ,J u a L,. , .
''"j1,!"",, ,n.'" dT li"
sea followed an
ough loer Chea-
peake Hay
After Jiroceedlng slov!
moat of the way do n she increased her ;
6 :3ft nd. mHU,f, ''trectly for the
-one 01 ine amen cruisers wxs
visible as she passed through.
iv IL t. I to thetniwaonly
?,tht ,UB T1"mna',K "mmlns. which
had convoyed her donu the bay from
None ..f Dip ullle.l rruiaera w:ls
boat.
Oni- Warship sren,
0lly olie ullle, arhii was eeu ofr
the capes to-dav It was u two funnelled
cruiser lljlng the lirltlsh navnl ensign.
Paaslng vessels reported that there weiu
, M;Luliar buos rem llcr. This guve
point of the Old roint and Cape Henry ,
chuunels and awaited the romltig nf the ,
undewea vessel.
BrBrS(eBaBPJ'BaA
RRRRRRMe1 iKaH
. ,, on as ii 10 u.iwii tin. i-.im ....it- . ,.iu,
...'n"""?''- ' bu "" 1,e 'le.patch boat made ,,r'7. ' ..-.. alBJ ,lri.llrtd ,hlH .,,
.vl'"rrt rUr I '" 8'"e ,n"- ''Hanged their o,, "L, ,r I. l Sen .1 bade fare
oVhTch'e'r": "d h""1"1 ",r'e,,- tor ''"Hwriiw'ft
I,pnr''
Has False Superstructure.
It was apparent that the Deutschlund
was carrying false superstructure,,
slightly lower than her conning tower.
It was straw colored and blended with
the nllukln coats worn by her crew, who
crowded the deck. When about a mile
from the press boat tho submersible be-
gnu to clear away the false superstruc-
lure and take soundings as If preparing
to dive.
The Deutschland was displaying red
and green lights, set Hush on tho two
sides of her conning tower. As she
passed the newspaper boat she put nut
these lights.
DerrwisliiL- her sneed. the Deutschland
hugged the shore line lis closely as was
possible, while the Tlmmina passed out
of the capes a short distance to de
termine whether the allied warships
were there to block the submarine's pas
sage. In less than fifteen minutes, or shortly
before 9 o'clock, she signalled the
I Deutschland that she had a clear path,
! habtened down the channel and to sea.
TUG T1MMINS REPORTS.
Informs Nentrnllty Sunnilron II
oat Has Passed Capes.
Wasiiinoton, Aug. i The tutf
Thomas Y. Tlmmlns, which accompanied
the submarine Deutschlnml down the bay
fiom Ilaltlmoro, reported to the United
Slates neutrality squndron outside Hamp
ton Roads to-night that the Deutschland
had passed out of the capes nt 8:.10 P.. M.
Late to-night the department hnd re
ceived no further word to Indicate
whether the submarine had passed tho
three mile limit.
The commandant of the Norfolk navy
yard sent the following to the Navy De
partment: "V. S. S. Sterelt reports, '.Stibninrlne
reported by tug Tlmmlns to have passed
out the capes nt 8;30, Am outsldo three,
mile 1111111.'"
The Hterrtt was outside the three milu
... V. . . ..... .1... h. n....lhl.'. ...
i " ,,"""i .,r,', "r -T"
age out was not Interfered with by the
allied cruisers off the rapes until she had
I passed out nf the' territorial waters nf
the United States.
lllndenburg Cornea West,
AMSTRHOAM, via London, Aug. 3, 4 .GS
a M All of the Oerman and Austrian
armies on the eastern front have been
placed undor the supreme command of
Field Marshal Von Hlndenburg, nc -
rrtin. tn a desnatch ouollna a nerlln
cording to a despatch quoting a iiernn
official announcement.
SRKAT BEAR NrBIWO WATRR.
Ite. the esse ef six glass stoppers! bettlta
At.
'CASEMENT TO HANG
AT 9 THIS MORNING
No llopp for Reprieve. Lord j
Hubert Cecil Sii.vs
Officially.
LAW TO TAKE ITS COCHSK
Cabinet Considered ('oiniiiiila-
Hon, Minister Asserts, but
Rejected Idea.
i I.oxtMiV, Aug. I. Roger Casement
will be hanged In the Pentonvllle prison
:it 9 o'clock to-morrow morning for
IiIkIi treason. J
Lord nobe rt Cecil, Minister of War (
Trade, announced to-day that It was th
lirltlsh Government's determination not I
(n reprieve him.
While the (lovcrnment maintains at
lence as to the dual efforts made on .
bthalf of Casement, It Is known that
petitions were received as late aa to- I
day The Foreign Office says no com-
l nmtilcatloti has lieen received from the i
Stato Department at Washington re
questing a reprieve. i
Lord Robert's Statement.
Lord Kobert Cecil Issued the follow
Ing statement t
"No doubt of Casement's fruttt exists. j
No one doubts that the court and Jury I
"or .ra-bnJES
fWSrr MS
never could strain the law to punish a
man for the same rrason that It could .
not strain the law to let one off.
"The Irish rebellion began with the
murder of unarmed people, both soldiers
and police. No grievance Justified It and
it was purely a political movement or
ganised by a small section of Irish peo
ple who still hate Kngland and was as
sisted by Geimany
"There was and Is In this country the
greatest possible Indignation against
these people. There Is no doubt that
Casement did evei thing possible to as
'1st this rebellion In cooperation with the
Gtrmans. There can be no doubt that
he was moved by enmity for this country.
"The contention that he landed In Ire-
InnH tir (Iia ntlMiii.a tif tirvintin lli
rebellion la demonstrably false. No iueh Uasln. UrooMyn. set Are to another e.- In .mnounclng Col. HasLell's appolnt-af-sertlon
was made by counsel at the rP anj (righlenad (ted Ilo"k residents, , input to-night the f!oeruor said
trial. The Flxey was near Illack Tom at the "Capt. Haskell was born in 1178 In
( ine l.itey was mar ic Albany, and was appointed to Went I'olnt
Hefrrs to Work In (iermaay.
neement was much more malignant .
.t in il.l. mnmiv tl, ...
am. noMi.e to in s counuy inan were
the leaders cf the rising who were caught
. h arms In their hands. He visited
military prisons In Germany with the
Intention of ,,e'4ndlng Irish soldiers to
piouiise.H were iiiuile for the lmproe-
ment of the .oudltlou of tliese men to
induce them to Join the Irish legh u. An
enormous majority thus approached
fused and thereafter were subjected to
Increased hardships by the Germans.
From among these Irish soldiers sev
rJ, UVe since been repatriated as hope
Casement, arcotdlng to tlavan Duffy, 1
his counsel, who sees the condemned.
'and spent some time with him at the Jail
Wabiiinoton. Aug.
Wilson's direction the State Department
ai i resident
to-day cabled to Ambassador I'age. for
presentation t
o the lintlsn Foreign Of-
utlon passed last week by
..7 .. .. . .
n, Hi. rAsnlotlnn
the Senate retiuertlnir the President It
urge that Great Britain extend clemency
to Irish political offenders. The resolu
tion was designed chiefly to aid Roger
Casement,
Roger Casement served the llrltUh
Government with distinction for years as
Consul and Consul-uciicral in African
. . .. ... . .....
and South American
l service was knighted
the atrocities aernetrated
hunters upon natives in
1 South America, and he
mission which brought ano'it reforms.
He was In America when the war
rtarted, atul lsued a letter calling on
Irishmen to remain neutral. Ho went to
Norway, and thence to Ilerlln. Just be
fore the outbreak of tho Irish lebelllon
Kaster week a German steamship laden
with arms went to the coast of Ireland,
accompanied by a submarine, with Case
ment aboard. He was arrested eoon
after landing,
Arnold Bennett, G, K Chesterton.
Israel ZangwllI, Sidney Webb. Hull I
Calne, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. John
Galsworthy, the Rev. K. J. Campbell
and tho Rev, John Clifford signed an
appeal for mercy for Casement, They
called attention to the violent change In
his views nnd to the fact that ho had
suffered several tropical fevers, saying
his mind may have been affected. Fur
ther, they say the execution will serve
Germany's ends hy emphasising the dif
ferences between Knglntid and Ireland.
Ttvo Irl.h Prisoners Mhnt.
London. Aug. I. Baron Newton, t'u-
der Secretary for Foreign Affairs, reply-
I
ng to a question In the House of Ixirds
.nnrarnlna the shooting of two Irish sol-
concerning
tilers who refused tn Join the
HZ
brlcade formed by Roger Casen
whllo prisoners of war in Germany,
said:
"The American Kmbassv In Ileilln not.
fled the Government on July 7 that Pat-
. . . , , , I man frequently, remains unconcerned. I,"",r" ' r
r ck .Moran or me i onnaiiKiu uangers, - n.v(- ... sjebriiskn lire-
had been shot by a guard nt the working I nt for MandTrd ba--,,mp
near Mniburg on May "S. The ''.?. f'Jl"..,, shipment of grapes,
rnmmanaani toiu ine .wihtu-iiii re i
senlatlvo that Mornn, while lutoxlcnted,
attacked a guard, who killed him tn self.
1 defence,
I "On July ju tne .vmeiican urni-assy
an r.mnassy
Informed the Government that another
' h irHoneri William Devlin, Minister
j.'U,ers. had been shot at the I.imhtirg
1 working camp. v. neu vmoassnaor i.e.
' fard visited the camp In connection with
. . . . .. thu vmoii i,..
Hi. win concealed.
"Ambassador Gerard wus warned by (res of doctor nf laws on Crown Prince
the General commanding nt Frankfort I Frederick William, according to the Her
sot to go to Llroburg." I )n .okpl Anzctger.
To Sun and
I dare say you would like to know how we. came
out with the amalgamation of THE SUN and THE
PRESS and how the amalgamated newspaper is doing.
In n word, it is doing tremendously well vastly better
than I expected or precedent in newspaper consolida
tions indicated as possible.
CIRCULATION APPROXIMATELY 200,000.
The net sale of THE SUN is now just about two
hundred thousand copies a day. It may be a few
thousand copies less and may be a few thousand copies
more. We cannot know accurately until all unsold copies
come in from newsdealers in the country.
This great circulation is well in excess of the com
bined circulations of both THE SUN and THE PRESS
before the amalgamation on Monday, July 3. Moreover,
THE SUN now has much the biggest circulation in its
hiBtory bigger by fully sixty thousand than in its
greatest days under Mr. Dana's control and guidance.
I should have told you before about the very
splendid sale of THE SUN but for the fact that I wished
to wait till I felt sure it was solid.
FRANK A. MUN9EY.
-
BLACK TOM SHELLS
START THREE FIRES
Almost Destroy Schooner in
Erie Hnsin, Set Another
Craft and Pier Ablaze.
Kxploslon of fulminate of mercury' Ai.hant, Aug, 2. Capt. William N,
from caps on shells coat broadcast by ' Haskell of this city, an officer In the reg
the Illack Tom explosion caused a fire ular army, has been formally appointed
that almost destroyed the. four maated t
. h ,oner rjeorre W. T:lzey yesterday '
afternoon at tin Long lock In Kile
time oi ine uig rpii,
' ... .nf.tii undrr a shower or siicus. un
- " ... ni.,nr,i
j.inn ..unii-un. "''""'".. 7.
- f eneIU ut
q,cU exploded. Yesterday
Vu7lo seik'rs who emptied tho ful- 1
."V wrr, reslK.nslble for the ,
fn"Xnn.
A workman stenped on the loose ful-
initiate. He was not hurt, but flames the army school of the line and of the
.preud over the dick and Into the rig-, army staff college at Fort Leavenworth,
ting. There followed twenty or more Kan.
explosions as flisll after shell blew up. "Capt Haskell has had a wide eprl
'the woikmen Jumped overboard, as they , ence in iitmy work, having served In the
.ii.i ,n m.im.i.iv ulien the shell exploded ,
finnliii- Johnson.
It look the tlreboats New YorKer anu
ilajnor two bonis to contiol the fire on
the lMxey. and hliixes on the pin and the
four masted schooner ueorge m, i.rani
li is f.ird the Klxev Is beyond le-
nalr. Nobody was hurt, but the r.lr.'s
dog, which was the only living thing
tlsiard In the big explosion and es. aped
illihurt, has disappeared.
.,m.,..Aii.Anu.n
PEACE WEARS COAT OF MAIL.
Prrnarrdness Idea Inspiration of.
., ,
i ,
lht' Kll"'"1" 1
' b' "
marble figure.
ddress Mr. Ilartl'tt gavel
description of the central i
Peace, an arnieu reace, s.auus nni,
I r,.i,.H in n mantle whl. h almost com
t , " , :
pltel ,Ir.
Iiresstplate and coal
rm rests on her
""" ',,.., -uonorted by the altar
" "V".",r" T" barkKround the "olive
at her side. In the uacKgrou.m u.e
I . nt rp.ce.
fee' of peace,
CARNEGIE GOLFS AND SAILS.
(jnn.l Health
(lavs Household
I Member, llenma ne . ....
I ui. ..if..n. Conn.. Aug llml .n-
.,.-. -i - . . , it
jrew Carnegie Is in goon iic.iiii i.nu n
"Mr Carnegie played golf about the
lawns here to-day," said the person.
"Yesterday he was out on ha yacht
Surf. He spends practically all of his
tlmp on the boat or playing golf about
his place. The story of his Illness Is a
'"'it'was iumore.1 that Mr Carnegie
was critically III.
BEES' BUZZ PARALYZED.
i . . .....
, F.pldrnilc Sends Hone makers lata
Illve Corners to Die
CoUVMIit'S, Ohio. Aug, !!. All ep.
denilc resembling paralysis has started
among the Ohio bee colonies and threat,
em to reduce materially the State's out
nut or honey, according to nn announce
" ' . .i..i,.v i,v N. K. Shaw. State bee
Inspector. The Federal Governmeii' Is
sending Dr. K. F. Ph!llU. H'fM't be
; expert, o me Htaie to ,,.-....- ..
c,,f' . m.ked by the disease quit
' wn nff , corner of the hive and
,. .' " , , lhB uie, sas M
l""
r. Shaw.
FRUIT BASKETS STANDARDIZED,
House Passes Bill tu flop Cheating
br Nniall ContMlners.
w.siiiKiimH. Aua. I. The bill of
j i.nrri.. nn...,i m
' 7i , House
'ly '"' H"u'e' , Npw YnrU ..,
.Southern and Western small fruit and
,.,. au..n,,i,i li in ,,rni.,.i
.... . , I
slxed contulners.
Hrarre for German Crown Prlnee.
Amsterdam, via Iindnn, Aug. :.
Berlin I'nlverslty haa conferred the de
.r.a q.i.i t..m .i.iu ..... .... tn mnntns s nee coin- . '
,... .... I liwil nil inn - . snore CO one stricken. Th. nl Wr niin..
He uvest gntPd . In, tn Darien. to occupy ine .vnson i ,.,'' V.V .. .'.""."V
by rubber Koke. place. Hrlck Hou.o. a t " - ' " " 'n'
the Congo and Collen.ler's I'olnt. was a staieineni e H1 ooll,rtt..t(j . j...... f V -
headed a com- tn.nlirht by a member or me '-ari-Kio ..... . ,
Press Readers
CAPT. HASKELL NOW
COLONEL OF THE 69TH
Gov. Whitman Announces His
Appointment to Replace
Col. Conley.
to succeed Col l.oul P. Conley of thi.
Sixty-ninth Infantry. National Ouard. by
Governor Whitman
from there by Congressman Ueorge N
Soutbwick in ISA.. lli was erailnatfil
graduated
assisted In
.. ,
rl '
(iri.,lnl!tlm. the Twenty-nlnth t'nited
States Infantry when It was .reated. He
served Mx jears in the l'hlllpplne Isl-
ands. having been stationed there during
the. Insurrection and twice ulnce that
time. lis Is a distinguished graduate of
Infantii . cavalry, altlllety and slanal
corps, whete he was In charge of wire-I
oss anu aeinnauiicai worn at uniana,
He has been on duty with the National I
'iuard of tilts State for two ears In the
oijeviur uou instructor oi
riiaoron . anu tne first iavairy ot
lliooklyn, He has become identified with
the Sixty-ninth as Instructor of their va-
rlous clashes
"Capt. Haskell has been I f commended
to ine for apnolntment by Urlr.-Gen.
i Iyer, commanding' the Klrst Brigade,
I and by Major-den. John K. O Hyan, com-
.mandlng thr New York Division.
"During the past month he has bee.
Cnlted .States mustering ofllter at Camp
' v Hitman, wliere he assisted In muster-
was
Ited
rganiza-
ALFRED HANAN STRICKEN.
Second Cbll.l n North Chore Cel.
ony Paralysis Victim.
Alfied Hanan, S'-j e.rs old, son of
Alfied P. Ilaiinn, tlie shoe manufac
turer, Is coiillncd to his home at Great
Neck suffering from Infantile paralysis.
His youngest brother. William, Is also
HI, but has shown no symptoms of the
dlfe.ihe.
Alfred has been under the care of Dr.
K H. Stewart for several days and yes.
t. relay Dr. Joseph Hogart, the health
officer of North Hempstead, placed a
quarantine on tho Hanan estate.
UUltl .. Ill
s the second child in the North
BONUSES FOR 2,800 WORKERS.
Mystem of Percentage tlesrarda Aa-
nounred In prlna-lld.
KPKiNnriKi.D, Mane.. Aug. 2. An
nouncement or a bonus system or pay
ments for 3,800 employees was made by
the Ludlow Manufacturing Associates of
i.uuiow lo-nay as a reward for contlnu
ous service.
The extra payments range from to
IS per cent, of the total earnings of em
ployees, depending on the period of ser
vice given. The first payment will bo
made September 11, rrlioacllve to
June ...
FEWER TRAFFIC FATALITIES.
Juli Record Largely Dae to Closing;
Hirer), ae , rnn -H.
sirens ae i-iaygrnnnds,
Willi play streets discontinued because
or Hie epidemic of Infantile paraluls,
only ckhteen children under 1C years
of age, were killed In street accidents In
July, according to figures compiled yes
terday by the Police Department. Com
missioner Woods believes the list would
have been much Ioniser but for the vigi
lance and activity of tlie polfce.
Forty-eight persona In all were killed
In streets accidents In July. Of these
twenty-one were killed by passenger
automobile, nine by motor trucks, ten
by surface cms and five by horse diawn
It ucks.
"TAGEBLATT" MUST ftUIT.
Berlin Pnper Again Kupprrssrd fur
Too Vigorous Attitude.
lir.iti.iN, via London, Aug. 2. The
Hcrtlnev Tniletilatt aain Hum h..n mm. I
pressed by the military authorities.
The resumption of publication by the
iwwHiiiiner several weeks aun was ,,.
condition that It refrained from !m
vicious dispute with the Conservatives,
TRANSIT HEADS FIRM AGAINST UNIONS;
WAGES RAISED ON SUBWAY AND (L' LINES;
POLICE PREPARE FOR GENERAL STRIKE
WERCENT.OFR.R.
I MEN VOTE TO STRIKE
CO IVr Cent, of 100,000
Ballots Cast Have Reen
Counted.
Ilallois of railroad employees counted
so far on the question of a nationwide
trlke are practleally unanimous In de
manding u walkout,
About 60 per cent, of the 400.000 bal
lot cast by members of the four great
brotherhoods of railroad employees had
been counted last night at the Broadway
Central, where the committee has Its
headquarters. These are from the East
ern and Southern members of the brother-
hoods. The remaining ballots will ar
rive here by August 6 at the latest. Af
ter they have been tabulated a meeting
will be held In the Engineering So
cieties Building on August , when th
remit of the vote will be made public.
Timothy Shea, assistant president of
the Urotherhood f Ixn'omotlve Firemen
and Knginamen, yesterday said It was a
foregone conclusion that the vote would
he for a strike. More than 89 per cent,
of the ballots counted so far say strike.
"The men are solid on the eight hour
demand," he aald.
He declined to venture a guess as to
whether arbitration or the Interstate
Commerce Commission would be able to
avert the threat-ned strike, but said the
men would oppose any attempt of the
commission to interfore.
"The commission's powers, specified ,
freigiuandaseenrJr ratV."" e".!.! ' 1
, '
Appeal to wiiso..
n-Zrtn iJct I
in the threatened railroad strike by hun-1
. dreds of members of chambers of com- I
jinerve Interested in preventing a tleup
of the nation's business.
FORD ' GUARDED LIKE KINO."
siee, a Roelka
Alao Harder t
rkwlaiwrr, Peace All,
Hktsoit, Aug, 2. Itoslka Hcbwlmmer.
foimer head of the Kord ieace confer
ence In Stockholm, who came to Detroit
Monday to report to Henry Ford, has
been unable to obtain an Interview with
liiat. Ix-ii,!.!, ti r.viil.F ..liu.insly Tn.
hliu through the regular channels
day she addressed him an open letter
through the press, the text of which fol-
i low
DrAit Mr. Fosn I came from Ku-
rope, a 1 annoutued In two wlieless
lnesages, to make a report to you.
"I did not come to make new sugges
tions. 1 did not come to ask anything.
"I did not come to discuss the quarrels
of.:Vu..',,r''''.n,a,lly,' . -.,...
But I came to-tell you something that
will make ou glad and proud, something
that repays you fur much of the trouble
that has accompanied youi efforts.
"It has been suggested to me to try to
see you by appointment made in a
roundabout way. 1 thought that too un
dignified and preferred to address my re
quest for an Interview personally to you.
I sent two letters to uoiu your nomeaiiu
to your ottlce.
"The barilers around you being more
Impregnable than those around Kings,
Kaisers, Presidents or other financial
magnates, 1 am making this request for
an Interview through the papers In the
hope that It will rrarh you and secute
me an answer."
ASK PAY FOR STADIUM DAMAGE.
Utr College Wants atl.OOT From
Tereratrnar) Hoard.
City College Is tryti to recover $.0O7
in damage said to tiave been done to
the stadium by the btt Shakespsarlan
masque "Caliban" last May The trust.
have asked the city to help them get tlie
money, and the city baa threatened to
sue If It Is not paid by August 10.
Tim Shakespeare tercentenary cele
bration committee, which managed the
m.isquo. probably will pay If the bill is
all light. It will have lo be shown,
though. At the orllce of the committee,
It) Hast Foily-thlrd street, It was said
yesterday there was some doubt about
the correctness of the bill.
The largest claim of the 16,007 total Is
for 13,750, which City College k.js It
had to pay for entirely ragrudiiw and
reaoddlng the field. Th contractor who
did the work ea It will be a year and
a half before the grans will look the
same ae before the thousands of Teet of
performers and spectators trampled It
FARMER JOHN D. GOES HAYING.
Fills Horkefrllrr Barns by la-
rhlaerr sad Haves Heaps la Wages.
Tahkytown, N, V,, Aug -J. Farmer
John D. Rockefeller can't be fooled
I&irly In Ills summer and before he
went to Cleveland, Mr. Rockefeller saw
that there was going to be a scarcity of
labor when haying time came around,
' " be gave orders to his superlntende'it
1,1 k'1' om of ,a,'', ahnr saving
i,i.,i. k .ti h. ,... i ii.mi..
nients an; being employed In great ml-
vantage on his vast estate at Pocaiitlce
Hills. There U no moro pitching of hiy
Mr Rockefeller has a machine that
will swing a load on a waxon In two
minutes, and other machine equally as
economical as time savers, He Is dol
lars ahead, for laborers' wages are at
the highest Klnt, and he hns solved his
hii vesting problem. It Is expected that
hundreds nf tons of hay will be in his
barns by August 15.
BRITISH BOMBARD M0ULEBIT.
Niuall lletachment Lauded on Coast
of Asia Minor.
MlTTl.KNK, Greece, via I-ondcin, Aug.
3. A British fleet has bomliirdrd
Mouleblt, on the coart of Asia Minor.
A small detachment has been landed.
, TRAIN MKRVICK TO AHIIKVIt.l.K. N. C.
Effective August 3d. L, New York U:ol
A M. l.v. fpsrunburg tOilO A, M, Ar.
BK.r-.MeJ
fea.)iiAii.WAY, iX Fifth Ave. Aii.
j 1
Company Officials Ready for Walk
out on All Cars Leaders of Men
Continue Organization of Em
ployees Queens Workers
Present Demands.
WOODS RECRUITING FORCES
Commissioner Wants 10,000 State Militiamen
and 10,000 of Home Defence League to
Preserve Order Demands of Men Pre
sented to Mayor Two Sides to
Confer With Him To-day
Threat of a general walkout by many more, if not all, of
the carmen on all the transit lines in the city became more
ominous yesterday. The heads of the traction companies are
reported to be united in a decision not to agree to the demands
of William D. Mahon, international president, and William B.
Fitzgerald, organizer, of the carmen's union, for permission to
unionize the conductors and mo tor men.
Traction officials, it seems, have accepted the challenge
thrown to them by Mahon and Fitzgerald. The union men are
bending every nerve and sinew in the campaign of organization,
and the railway men quietly are taking measures to prepare
for strikes.
Theodore P. Shonts, president of the Interborough Rapid
Trnnsir Dnmnnnv nnrl nf fh
yesterday announced a series of
subway and elevated employees,
t)ie guffjg car employe&s last
announced: "We wish to make
will not hav any dealings
orffani7ntinn "
" '
Williamt Stand
Shouts iircnrilliiKly took it side with
IMulu A. Mnlifr, vU-i'-fifPshlt'tit nf Uih
Tlilril AvtMitic Hnilwuy systt'in. Tlit
Mtrlkcrs roport Col. Tlmntlty S. Will-
liims, president of I In- urooklyii
Kitplil Transit Cutnimiiy. ttlso has
tnkeii u Mt ii ml npilusf tminiilMii.
While the union men werp insert
lug "ret'iignlt Inn of the union or ii
generiil tleup," they presented to
.Mnnr Mlti-hel ilemutiiN from tinlnns
ot-piul.eil unions the New York Kfill
wnys t'ninpaii.v euiil(i.vee- mill the
cnrnieu of the New York tnul Queens
('otliil.v Itiillioiid ('oinpiiny, n sub
sidiary of the lnterhorotiKh. These
ileiiuiniK tire for recoRiiltlon of the
union iintl I in 'reuse In wiikcs for tlie
ciinuoii on those lines. The ilemmuls
w lt. ( onsl.h.fp,! ,y t ruction ofl'IclitN
''' " ""I"" t''n nt n ronferemv
thi nioriiinu
with Mnynr Mitehel tit
City Hull.
Organlslna Power House Men.
Added to the-e ileiiMlids oanie thleat
fiom Timothy HeHley, nn associate of
Mahon und 1'llzgerald, tliat an organ!.
zatlon Is being effected among the work
ers and electricians In the power houses
supplying power for the transit lines.
They too are expected to Join In a sym
pathetic strike.
There wer hints yesteiday that If the
New York Hallways oltlclals tmew down
the demands made by the men and there
was every likelihood that they will ,i
strike will be ordered to-morrow by the
employees of the New York Hallway
and the New Yolk and Queens County
tain-nan, rue organizers also made
veiled Ihteats that sllll other road would
Join In the stllke.
William o. Wood, pirsldent of the
New York and ijtieens Hal I road Com.
pany, sent out a notice of Increase of
wages to the carmen Inst night. This
now schedule culls for an advance of
the one 5 ear men from Vt cents an hour
to 2. .etits all hour; second year men,
from 24 to 2D , third, 2." to ii ; fourth.
36 lo 27; fifth, 2fi to 27; sixth, 26 to 28,
and after ten years from 26 to 29,
Qnren'a .Men .Make Driuands.
In the face of Hie new schedule of In
crease, the employees of the Queens rail
way voted last night Imjilnd closed doors
in the Morris Hall, Grand and .Stelu
way avenues, Queens, to demand recog
nition of the union, wages of "0 cents
nn hour r.ir the first year and 3.1 cents
there.tftci, ami adjustment of working
comituons through a Joint committee ok.
olllclals or the company and the union
The srl 3 o'clock to-morrow afternoon
as the hour at which they wish nn an
ew er.
With the situation lo-rouiing liouily
mole ai ute, Police Commissioner Woods
was active esterday. In consultation
with Chief Inspector Schniltlberger
CoinuiNslniier Woods s said to have de
veloped plans for the use of the lu.ouo
niembeis nf the State militia, of tlie
police force nnd the 10,000 members of
th Home Defence League. Gov Whit
man Is said to have promised the ser
vice of Hie mllllla on the instant that lie
teceives a telephone request rrom Mayor
Mltihel or Coiiinilssionei Wo.d.
Working- for Prarr,
While all these moles and counter
mot en were goliiK on other agencies were
Winking for peace. The Public Service
Commission Matted an Inquiry In the
hupe of twinging before the public in
formation and suggestion that might
enable them miliieiily 10 harmonize the
ap.lieutly irris'oiicilahle positions of the
linnsit olIlclalH and the union men, Rep
tesentatlves ot the Slate Labor Depart
ment and of thu Federal Department of
C'ouuneice weie iii the cll making In
qillrles and trying to soten the do.
Illinois on both sides.
Rumors concerning (he New York
Hallways Company's carmTIi rrystulllzril
In the morning when President Mahon
sent a Idler to Mayor Mltrhel enclo.
ing the demand to tie made on that
company by the union employees, With
the letter he also enclosed demands fiom
I lie employees on the New York and
Queens County llallroaii, a sort nf stir
f".r. '.no fnr. .Mu,"'n 4
Fitzgerald nave uccn woraing secretly
Npw York TlniKvnvs Pnninnnv
increases in wages for all the
having granted increases to
week. At the same time he
it dear that we cannot and
whatsoever with this alien
Against Unionism.
over In Queens for eieiul iln. Just as
In Brooklyn.
Men's Position Set Forth,
The letter was carried to the M.tvor
by Hugh Fra-ne, organizer of the Amer
ican Federation of Labor, ami l.oui
I'rldlger. counsel for the carmen'. union.
The position of the union men In regunl
to both the New York Hallways em
ployees and the Queen 1 ouuty carmen ,
set fortli In tlie following C'liuiiiniiua
tlous :
".My Dkak Mk. Match.
"In compliance with my pioiulse made
you on tho first, I take Hits means of
Informing oii that the men working
for the New York Hallways Company
and the New York and Queen County
Railway have tequesled us to present to
their respective companies requests cov
ering wages und the retognltlon of their
oiganlzation.
"Copies of their request aie hereby
enclosed.
"We have instructed our attorney,
Loul FrldlKer, and Hugh Frayne, or
ganizer of the American Federation of
Labor, to present tluse matter. to .von
and represent our association In any dis
cussion or action you may desire to take
on same. Yours very respectfully.
"W D. Mahon. ptesldent of the Amal
gamated Association of the Street and
Klectrlc R.illway Employees "
Demands of tbr Men,
The demand of the New- Toik and
Queen County Italtroad employees are:
First That the employees of the com
pany be allowed to organize without any
tnterrerence, Intimidation or coercing on
the patt or the olllclals of the company
Second Thai the company will ngreo
to meet with tlie properly accredited of
ficers and committees of I lie association
on all questions that may arise between
them.
Third That the rate of wages for
mntoimen and rondurtots tot the future
shall be .10 cents ni hour for tho tlrst
year in service and 33 cents an hour
thereafter.
These demand were diawn up last
night
Tin- demand of tho New York Rall
wav s employee 111 e
First That the company will allow
Its employees to organize without any
Intimidation or Interfeience of any kind.
Second That tho officers of the com
pany will agiee to meet and treat with
the duly aeciedlted ottlcers and commit
tees uf the organization upon nil ques
tions arising between them In tho future.
Third That the company will estab.
llsh ttie following rate or wages tor the
future :
Motnrmen and conductors on the elec
trie lines lo receive U cents an hour for
the til Ht year In service and 33 cents an
hour thereafter
Motnrmen and conductors nn the
storage battery line to receive 28 cents
n hour for the tlrst year In service and
30 cents an hour thereafter.
Condurtirs and drivers on horse car
line to iicelve :r. cents an hour for the
tlrst year In service and 2H cents an houf
thereafter.
These demands were also drawn up
last night.
SlrlLr Notice Not Given.
Maor Mltclud had a talk with Fravne
and Frldlger. H then communicated
by telephone with Shonts and received
(mm him n promise to go to City Hall
at 10 o'clock thl morning to explain In
side of tlie question In the presence of
Mahon and Fitzgerald. Later the Mayor
ssued n statement In which he aeserted
tent M.ition had not given him any notice
of nn Intention to call a strike
"At the conference )ietcrday. iud
Mayor Mllclul, "the c.iimeu promised
Unit the would give me 'welU-foo'
hours notice hef re a general strike wsi
r ailed Thrv have not given me tlu"
notice, All they have dono Is to ptesein
their demands against the railway oin
pr.nles. What Hie representatives of the
union did say, In prmenllng the de
mands. was that a f'-w or the men had
been discharged for oiganlzlng. and that
unless this action on the put -f the
company ceased there would be III ti
chance or nveitlng a general strike
"liepr.'sentallv.s of tlie union, a" e 1
as tho olllclals of the eompinles .incited,
have agreed lo confer on tlie pew- de
mands with me. t-moirow niornine I
am assured thero will bo no calling out
El vt- '
