-.n i i nJHtl"HP """'"'"WIlW.ill
"i
'FINANCIAL EDITION
0
-
NIOHT
EXTRA
itimtma
NIGHT
EXTRA
PRICE OITE CENT
'i'f'i
VOL. H.-NO. 277
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 19 1G.
CorimauT, 1010, nt tn Fcsua Lrtxitt Courixr,
imiiiiii , ' uyi .mil vm, mamam!j0pr
ifiKb meiager
IERMANS GET
READY TO QUIT
BASE AT KOVEL
ussian Commanders Re-
if port Von Linsingen Pre
paring ior Jiivacuauon
LIGHTING ON MARSHES
' pctrograd Believes Teutons
I About to Fan aacic on iiresc
Litovsk-Bug Line
petroorad, Aug. s.
n.nViil von Ltnslngen has begun to pre-
Lr0 for tlio evacuation of his baso at
firi. Volhvnln, according to two ofllclal
L..,t rMelved hero today. Tho Russians
ifiavo pushed forward 10 miles since they
fcrossed tho bend of tho Stokhod River base,
md advanced upon Kovel, pressing back tho
'Bvustro-Oerman forces.
it la believed that tho Germans will fall
lack upon tho Brcst-Lltovsk and Dug River
Ine, whero tho topography of tho country
iffords natural barriers.
in tho meantime tho Russians aro ex-
ending (heir attacks farther into tho Prlpet
larsh region.
Tho battering of Teuton defenses along
he Kovcl-Lcmberg line showed no sign of
batcment today. Unofficial dispatches from
Bis front said tho Russian forces wcro mix
ing Infantry attacks with heavy nrtlllcry
ombardment In a scries of battles at vnrl-
ua points. German countcr-auacKs in
easiest succession aro being launched
gainst tho Muscovite columns, so far wlth
ut success, except temporarily halting tho
irward movement of tho Russians.
Press dlsnatchcs today said Gcnerat
Kaledlne was lc3s than a dozen miles from
ovel and continuing his ndvancc. Ho Is
irealenlnc momentarily to take tho Kovel-
emberg railroad, spreading still wider tho
ussian wedgo between th German and
ustrian forces. This samo wedgo threat
is a turning of thojlanks of tho two Tcu-
m armies.
Marshy terrain Is hampering tho Russian
tack slightly, but tho Czar's forces are so
.nfiilnni of earlv victory and so by the
access which has so far attended 'their
lve that they are disdainful of natural
istructlons.
iPTURE OF KOVEL-LEMBERG
LINE BELIEVED ASSURED BY
SLAVS' CONTINUED SUCCESSES
LONDON, Aug. 3.
I The tremendous scries of battles for
ovel and Lomberg contlnuedloday to do
llop successfully for tho Russians, and
la capture of both places Is how considered
military experts to bo assured. So
j-ong Is this feeling that attention Is al-
lady being turned to the situation as It
ill be after their fall to tho question of
hat lino tho Austro-German forces will
pxt attempt to hold, and to how successful
ley will bo In withdrawing their shattered
nles to It.
(Little deflnlto Information as to yester-
ay's fighting can be drawn from either
Be Russian or Allied omclal statements
oth record Teutonic counter-attacks, the
ermans claiming success and the Russians
ifeat for them. The Germans also assert
tat Russian blows both against the Strypa
ne and tho new German positions west
' the Stokhod were repulsed.
Information reaching here, however, Bhows
gat tha Russians are continuing their ad-
rnce on all fronts. At the northern end
I the battle line, between the two railroads
verging from Kovel, General Kaledlne's
rces are reported to be only ten miles from
o city, a gain of ten miles In two days.
Further south they have widened and
lepened the wedge they were driving be-
'en (ho German and Austrian sectors of
e line, till the separation Is almost com-
ete, and co-operation between the two
ill be almost Impossible tlllthey have re-
sated many miles. Another day Is likely
put Kaledlno across the Lemberg-Kovel
Illway, cutting all direct communlcatlon.
Th Strypa lines of von Bothner"a army
apparently still holding, In spite of the
creasing threat from the north. South
them more Russian attaoks are being
- It Is here that the Germans claim
Iccess, but private advices say the Rus-
Mw are continuing to sweep to the flank
ii rear of this army and are almost within
Iking distance of the railroad from Tar-
Ipol to Lemberg, running through Brexe-
ny( Which Is the only lino open for the
treat of Bothner's army of mora than one
ndred thousand men.
IThus enveloping movements are progress-
tu v ' aalnsl Kovel, Lemberg arid
pinner's forces. Tho armies of von
ehnj'Hrmotll and von Tjlnslnpn n h.
fVd Incapable of offerlnc: anv verv nri.
M resistance to the wedge which Is being
v. oeiween tnem, ana It Is taken for
Inted that, no matter how woll ih soil.
IU hold, the Russians will soon be on tha
p u coin the cities aimed at. There Is
wwe marsh before Kovel which Is ex.
to aelay the direct assault, but tha
y IS believed sure ta fall as ennn n nn.
W BrUSSiloff'a 1nrrit urhlnh ar-o n.i
PJWn the direction of Yaldlmlr Volynakl
- - ...w BVUH1HU U; MilO.
TTTTC WT?ATwmT
H it""11'
p FORECAST
or Philadelphia and vicinity Gen
l? uav ana WBimv wanner to
;ftti Friday unsettled, with vrob-
V thowera; gentle winds, mostly
thwest,
LKKQT1I OF DAY.
rt v 5 02 am. I Moon rl .. S.-0Sp.m.
mu V TJ2p,mlMoon soutla. 331 pint
JaUAWARK 8IVKU TWK C1IAKQX3.
CHESTNUT STREET.
Ur
Ur
4-03 a m. IMlirh viltf. . 4Jintn
UAi.m.l r
tEMl'EKATl'BE AT EACH HOUR.
? 101 U f 131 1 1 '2 3l 4T7S
.gJ 701 78t 79tT5"f"srT
I
TRANSIT ESTIMATES LEFT
WIDE MARGIN FOR INCREASE
IN COST OF CONSTRUCTION
Taylor Revised Figures in November,
1915, to Meet Abnormal Industrial
Conditions Approved by
Twining
Former Director Taylor Points Out Lack of Obstacles in
Path of Quick Work on New Subway arid
Elevated Railway System
Editor of the Evening Ledger'.
In rcsponso to your request for evidence confirming tho accuracy of tho
estimates of costs of tho various recommended high-speed lines, which aro set
forth on pago 27 of tho Annual Report of tho Department of City Transit issued
December 31, 1915, tho estimates were as follows:
REVISED INDIVIDUAL ESTIMATES OF THE COST OF CONSTRUCTION
(NOT INCLUDING EQUIPMENT) OF THE VARIOUS
LINES RECOMMENDED.
Broad street subway, with delivery loop and branches
construction
Delivery loop (not Including curves at Rroad Btreot) J5.900.000
Northeast branch (on Boulevard to Rising Sun nvonuo).... 1,600,000
Northwest branch (Logan to Qermantown) 2,100,000
Broad street, Leagtlo Island to Olncy avenuo (Including
curves at Locust street and Arch street) 27,200,000
Broad streoti real cstato
Fronkford elovatcd construction
Frankford elevated real cstato
Woodland avenue elevated construction
Woodland avenuo elevated real estate
Tarkway Roxborough construction
Parkway Roxborough real estate
Byberry lino (Including track land assumed to bo obtained
without cost)
Total
The above includes 20 added to cover cost of engineering and
interest and required sinking fund payments.
Tho foregoing individual estimates of costs of construction of tho lines
recommended were compiled under tho direction and supervision of Mr. II. II.
Quimby, Chief Engineer of tho Department of City Transit; Mr. William S.
Twining, Consulting Engineer of tho Department of City Transit, and Mr. J. A.
Emery, Consulting Engineer of the Department of City Transit
As bids were taken for tho construction of tho subway and elevated lines
by the Department of City Transit in Philadelphia and by tho City of New York,
tho estimates previously made by the Department of City Transit were revised
to conform to costs of labor and material then current.
A complete revision of tho estimate's of tho Department was completed under
tho direction and supervision of Messrs. Quimby, Twining and Emery, on
November 11, 19K, andtho result was certified tome ns follows :4J-
Philadelphia, November 11, 1915.
Mr. A. M. Taylor, Director,
Department of City Transit,
Bourso Building, Philadelphia.
Sir. Referring to the contemplated provision to be made through
a loan for the construction of the proposed high-speed transit lines In
the city, I havo again gone over the Department estimates of cost in
the light of the bids received for the subway and elevated work recently
placed under contract, and am of the opinion, based on the present
prices of labor and 'material, that the sum of $30,000,000, added to the
$6,000,000 already provided for, will be sufficient for the completion of
the structure and stations for the Frankford Elevated Railway from
Front and Arch streets to Frankford avenue and Rhawn street, and of
the Broad Street Subway from League Island to Olncy avenue, includ
ing the delivery loop in Locust, Eighth and Arch streets, together with
the recommended elevated branch to the Northeast and a Northwest
elevated branch from Logan to Germantown, the line between Filbert
street and Ridge avenue to be so located as to permit the construction
of a subway alongside by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company. Also
to build complete the structure and stations of the recommended Wood
land avenue elevntcd line, and the Roxborough line as subway under tho
Parkway and as elevated in North 29th street and Henry avenue.
Our estimates include engineering and other overhead expenses,
with interest and sinking fund charges during construction, which arc
intended to be met from the loan fund, also the cost of the required real
estate easements.
Respectfully submitted, -?"
HENRY II. QUIMBY,
Approved Chief Engineer.
WILLIAM S. TWINING,
J. A. EMERY,
Consulting Engineers.'
The foregoing detailed estimate, which appears on pago 27 of the 1915
Transit Report, followed this certificate.
The loan bill makes available for tho construction of the Broad street
subway, delivery loop and elevated branches and for the construction of the
Continued on Fare Two. Column Tito
EXCESS OF AFFECTION
ENDS AN ELOPEMENT
Married Man, Accused of Desert
ing Wife, Arrested With
Companion
CHICAGO, Aug. 3. Too much cooing
and the absence of a wedding ring on the
finger of Miss Helen Calhoun, daughter
of a "New York city official, were blamed
today by George Wllkens. 29 years old,
Englewood, N. J., for his detainment here
on a charge of wife abandonment and
embezzlement, Wllkens was arrested on
request of the Englewood police. Miss
Calhoun also was taken Into custody and
will be turned over to her father when he
arrives today.
Frequent use of tho terms "honey" and
"hun bun" caused a suspicious hotel de
tective to tell them to move. A few hours
later local police ran across the house
detective and showed him a picture of
Miss Calhoun. They said she had eloped
with a fugitive.
When Wllkens came back to the hotel
to get laundry he left, he found two de
tectives, who placed him under arrest. In
addition to a charge of deserting his wife
and two children, Wllkens is also wanted
on a chargo of embezzling 11000 from the
Englewood Country Club, of which he was
cashtfr. He and Miss Calhoun left New
York a week ago last Monday.
8ouuT.nl Railway to Atlanta, utrtnluihuB.
Now OrUaUJ. llcmpbl. etc. by dircc routM.
Six limited ul trloa dally. Cffie U3 CUt
aut U,,U-AAv,
$36,700,000
1,000,000
E.700,000
600,000
8,200,000
100,000
7,600,000
100,000
1,100,000
$56,000,000
MAMMOTH CAR STRIKE
IMPENDS IN NEW YORK
AS CONFERENCE FAILS
One More Effort Will Be Made,
However, to Agree Action of
Employes Deferred to
Tomorrow
STEIKE-BREAKERS BEATEN
NEW YORK, Aug. 3. New York reach
ed the crisis In the street car strike situa
tion today.
A tie-up of 1291 cars that operate on the
450 miles of surface tracks on the New
York city railways within 24 hours seemed
certain when the conference called by Mayor
Mitchel between unions and company rep
resentatives failed to reach an agreement
at noon. Another .conference is scheduled
later today. Eight thousand men are af
fected. Such an addition to tha lines on which
strikes already have been declared would
bring the total mileage directly affected up
to 1010, the number of cars up to 3148 and
the number of men to 15,600.
Union recognition remains the one Out
standing Issue. Higher pay demands have
been made, but the employes aro willing
to arbitrate this question.
President Shonts stands Arm n his 4-
CaatlsMa so ?u Tyo. Caiuaa Sana
IN $100,000 BLAZE
IN CABINET PLANT
Scores Terrorized as Flames
Destroy Factory of
Sjostrom Company
EXPLOSION WAS HEARD
Watchman and Fireman Injured.
Former Trapped by
Flames
riintojrrnph uliovrlns: the extent nnA weep
of the (Ire nt the SJoMrom Company plant
In on pictorial back page.
A score of persons wore driven from their
homos, came Jumping Into tho Btrccts from
second-story windows, two men wero In
jured nnd .property damage estimated from
$100,000 to $125,000 was done In a (Ire, of
supposed Incendiary origin, that started at
2 o'clock this morning In tha John E.
Sjostrom Company's cabinet-making plant,
1719 North Tenth street
That tho flro wan Incendiary Is the belief
of Mr, Sjostrom, although no motive. Is
known. Mr. Sjostrom said today ho had
been told by Alfred Schuler, tho plant's
watchman, who lives at 2423 North Fatrhlll
street, that ho had heard an explosion on
the flrst floor while, ho was making his
rounds on the third floor.
Jacob Dcllcrjeau, a tube operator em
ployed at substation O of tho postofllce, at
Tenth street nnd Columbia avenue, who dis
covered tho blaze, knows only that It started
someuhero In tho building. IIo was walk
ing along Columbia avenuo when ho saw
tho blazo shoot out toward tho street, he
says. IIo yelled tho alarm, and a fow mo
monta afterward Sergeant Brlnton and
Policeman aBIrd, of tho Twelfth District,
appeared. Tho three men, after sending In
tho flrst of tho four automatic alarms,
Btartcd In tho work of rousing tha neigh
borhood, for tho blazo was then most
threatening, nnd of rescuing a number of
horses In a stable next to tho cabinet-making
plant
Six hor.iC3 wero taken from the stable.
When that work had been accomplished
tho -firemen arrived, but tho flames had
then spread to surrounding buildings. On
the north s!do of Columbia avenuo tha
roofs of many dwellings had been Ignited
by flames, and fire had already so com
pletely enveloped the residence of Joseph
S. Sherntsky, 1732 Ilallroad street, that
seven people were forced to Jump from tho
Windows to tho street- A majority of them
Jumped from 'the Becond-story windows un
harmed. Other places damaged wero tho print shop
of II. D. Clifford, 925 Columbia avenuo;
dwelling of Mike "Woosnack, 1717 North
Tenth street, and tho former book bindery,
now vacant, of Stewart Brothers, 923
Columbia avenue.
Schuler, the watchman, was on tho third
floor, makng his rounds, when ho knew
that tho building was on Are. Ho ran to tho
flrst floor, but found his escape through tho
doorways had already been shut off. Greatly
excited, ho made hla way to o. window, but
not before the flames had caught him. When
he Jumped his hair and eyebrows had al
ready been badly burned. Ho Is now In a
highly norous state, suffering from the
shock of his experience. Tho other man
Injured was Adam Shlde, hoacman, of En
gine Company No. 34, who wns burned
about face, hands and body and removed to
a hospital.
VARE FOR SUFFRAGE
Senator Indorses Hughes's Stand for
Federal Amendment
Senator Edwin H. Vnre has Indorsed the
stand taken by Republican Presidential
Candidate Hughes In favor of woman suf
frage. "I have always belleed and I still be
le," he said, "In the women getting fair
play. My friends and I have nlways otcd
for woman suffrage In the State Legisla
ture. We helped to pass tho woman suf
frage amendment two years ago, an amend
ment that was defeated In tho State by a
very small majority and largely because of
the size of the ballot used at that election.
"While I haven't talked with my friends
about It as yet, I desire to say, speaking for
myself, that I shall vote for the amendment
again when I go back to Harrlsburg.
"I think the Republican nominee for
President, Mr. Hughes, Is absolutely right
In the stand he has taken on the woman
suffrage question. He has clearly and forci
bly outlined his position on what Is cer
tainly Just as much a national question as
a State Issue, affecting, as It does, the wo
men of the entire oountry and not of one or
a few States."
THREE MORE PARALYSIS
CASES; 50 SINCE JAN. 1
Officials Optimistic Over Situa
tion in City Believe Epidemic
Will Soon Be on Decline
Infantile Paralysis
in the Last 24 Hours
New cases in Philadelphia,,,. 3
Deaths in Philadelphia..,.,.. None
New cases in New York 217
Deaths in New York,, 43
New cases in Pennsylvania. ... 2
Deaths in Pennsylvania None
New cases in New Jersey,,.. 62
Deaths in New Jersey, ....... None
Three cases of Infantile paralysis de
veloped in Philadelphia and two In Camden
In the last 24 hours, making a total of 60
cases In this city and Ave In Camden since
the 1st of January. Of these 33 are In
the Philadelphia Hospital for Contagious
Diseases under quarantine, five are quar
antined In their homes, eight are dead and
five have recovered and the quarantine has
been lifted.
The new cases In Philadelphia include
three J-yea'rHJld. boys;
Andrew Parker, t years old, IJ16
North Leo street, Thirty-third Ward.
Leslie Martin. years old, 145 New.
kirk street. Fifteenth Ward.
Husaell Conner, 3 years old, T13
CeoUaat J c. Mt Xwa. Celiuaa SU
QUICK NEWS
NATIONAL LEAGUE
CINCINNATI O O O O O O O
BOSTON, IstB O O O O O 1 O
Tonoy and Wlngo; Barnes and Blackburn.
WISCONSIN MAN GETS ZOOLOGIST POST
ITAItRISBURO, Aug, 3. J. O. Saunders, State zoologist for Wis
consin, has been appointed to succcod Prof. II. A. Surface, who wns
dismissed Monday night from the post of Pennsylvania zoologist.
MANY DEAD IN TENNESSEE CLOUDBURST
MIDDLEBORO, Ky., Aug. 3. Nine bodies have been recovered
nnd 30 persona nre missing following a cloudburst In Barren Valley,
Claiborne County, Tenn., today.
SARATOGA RACING RESULTS
Tlrst race, 2-ycnr-olds, $500 added, 5 furlongs Columbine, 107,
J. McTaggart, 3 to 1, even, 1 to 2, won; Fairy Wander, 107, J. Uc
Cahey, 15 to 1, 5 to 1, 5 to 2, second; Reprobate, 110, Davles, 10 to 1,
4 to 1, 2 to 1, third. Time, 1.01 3-5.
MEXICO NAMES BOARD FOR U. S. PARLEY
MEXICO CITY, Aug. 3. The Mexican Government today ap
pointed the following as membera of the joint commission whlcb,
under the recent interchange of notes with President Wilson, is to
meet the American repie&entatives to adjust the border bTTuatlon:
Luis Cabiera, president; Ignacio Bonlllas and Alberto Panl. As sec
retary of the commission, Juan B. Rojo was named. Tho party will
start for the United States as soon as possible. The meeting place
of the joint commissioners will be selected by them.
UNARMED BRITISH STEAMSHIP TORPEDOED
LONDON, Aus. 3. Tho unnrmod British steamship Helghlngton has been sunk
by a Gorman submarine (Tho Helghlngton hailed from "West Hartlepool, where alio
wa,i owned by tho West Hartlopool Steam Navigation Company. She was built In
1S91 and was 145 feet long1 and 40 feet In tho beam.)
TWO ITALIAN STEAMSHIPS SUNK BY U-BOATS
ROME, Aujr. 3. Tho Italian steamships Rosarina and Letlmbro havo been sunk
by hostile submarine?.
GARMENT WORKERS BACK ON JOB TOMORROW
NEW YORK, Auir. 3. Tho strike and walkout of tho garment workers ended
today and tho employes will bo back at work Monday. At noon today 12,000 workers
hod voted on the, agreement mado between tho union nnd employers and 90 per cent
favored a return to work. This ends 14 weeks of idleness. Between 30,000 nnd
40,000 workers, employed nt 2000 shops, are affected. Tho agreement Is about tho
samo an that refused by the workers ten days ago.
FORTUNES MADE IN CHICAGO WHEN WHEAT RISES
CHICAGO, Aug. 3. Fortunes comparing In size to tho stupendous ones made
In "war brides" have been accumulated In Chicago in tho last few days as a result
of wheat's sensational rise. It was gossip around tho Board of Trado today that
James A. Patton, tho Armour Interests, A. J. LIchtensteIn and .several seaboard ex
porters have taken profits ranging from ten to thirty cents a bushel on wheat and
their gains havo run Into the millions.
CITY'S RECEIPTS FOR WEEK EXCEED EXPENSE
Tho receipts of tho City Treasury during the week ending last night was
$1,546,450.16 and tho disbursements amounted to $755,164.75. This, with the balance
on hand from tho provlous week, not Including the Sinking Fund account, leaves a
balance on hand of $10,596,732.03 deposited in various banks and trust companies.
BRITANNIC, SMALL BRITISH LINER, SUNK
LONDON, Aug. 3. The liner Britannic, owned by W. II. Cockerllne & Co.,
has been sunk. It was announced today. The Britannic was unarmed. The Britannic
was a steel screw vessel of 3487 tons, built in 1904. Hull was her home port. As
the British Press Bureau confines all announcements as to the loss of vessels to the
mere announcement of their bolng "sunk," whether by mine or torpedo, it may be
assumed that tho Britannic was torpedoed In view of the statement that she was
unarmed.
NORRIS TO TAKE FARM BANK POST MONDAY
George W. Norrls, banker and former Director of the Department of Wharves,
Docks and Ferries, who was recently appointed a member of the Farm Loan Board
by President Wilson, will go to Washington on Monday to be sworn in with the
other members of the board. Following the confirmation of the appointment by the
Senate last night, Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo issued a call to the members
to present themselves at the capital on Monday,
BURGLARS AT HOME OF MRS. S. M. VAUCLAIN, JR.
Main Line police today are hunting for burglars who attempted to rob the
Rosement home of Mr&. Samuel M. Vauclaln, Jr., daughter-in-law of tha vice presi
dent of the Baldwin Locomotlvo Works. A watchman frightened tha Intruders
away and then reported tho mattor to the police. The burglars cut a hole In one
of the ground-floor windows and entered through It.
PRESIDENT WRITING SPEECH OF ACCEPTANCE
WASHINGTON, Aug. 3. President Wilson today began work In earnest on
his speech of acceptance of the Democratic nomination for President. No definite
date has yet been set for the notification of the President. He has stated that he
would not consider it until Congress has adjourned. It Is believed, however, that
the notification will take place the first week in September.
NEW YORK ELEVATED EMPLOYES GET WAGE INCREASE
NEW YORK, Aug. 3. Increased wages for all employes of the Interborough
Rapid Transit Company, which operates all the elevated and part of the subway
lines of the city, were approved by the board of directors. This action was an
nounced by Theodore P. Shonts, president of the company. By the new scale
Interborough conductors will receive an Increase of from 15 to 20 cents for a
ten-hour day, guards from 10 to 20 cents and motormen from 10 to 20 cents for
a similar period.
VAST SHIPMENTS OF MUNITIONS MAY BE-MADE HERE
Philadelphia may become the chief port for shipping large quantities of am
munition to tha Allies Blnce the city commissioners of Jersey City have, ruled
against the shipment because of the explosions there last Sunday, There are strin
gent regulations for the handling of explosives and shipping men say there would
be little danger to Philadelphia if the port wero used for the purpose.
PENROSE MAY OPPOSE HUGHES ON SUFFRAGE
Along the political RIalto today wagers aro being made that Senator Penrose
will not Indorse Charles E. Hughes In the tatter's declaration for the Susan B.
Anthony equal suffrage amendment Senator Thomas, of Colorado, chairman of
the Woman Suffrage- Committee, is quoted In Washington as saying that the amend
ment would fail of five votea in the Senate, and that Senator Penrose would be
against it.
BODY DENIED
TO RELATIVES
OF CASEMENT
Plea Rejected After,
Roger's Hanging for j
Treason '(
NO SIGN OF INSANITY
SEEN, SAYS CORONER
Official Finds Nothing to
Support Conjecture of
A. Conan Doyle
GOES TO DEAjTH BRAVELY
"I Die for My Country," Says
Irish Revolt Leader Asks
God's Mercy
LONDON, Aug. 3. Roger Casement paid
tho death penalty for treason today. He
was hanged nt Pentonvltlo prison nt 9.07
this morning. Ten minutes later his body
was cut down, llfo being pronounced ex
tinct. k
Tho Irish leader'o last words, spoken
whllo ho watted fearlessly for tho drop to
bo sprung, were:
"I dlo for my country."
Dr. P. R. Mander, surgeon of the prison,
who examined Casement's body, declared
that there was no evidence that the con
demned man had suffered from Insanity.
Tho theory had been advanced by Sir
A. Conan Doylo nnd others that Cascment'o
virulent nntt-Brltlsh plotting had been In
spired by mental aberration.
FAMILY'S REQUEST REFUSED.
Following tho hanging Gavin Duffy, th
legal rcprcsentntlvo of Casement's relatives, v
announced that tho Homo OfRco had re
fused to turn over the remains to" tho Coso
ment family.
Application had been made to the Home K
Secretary for tho body In order that it might,
bo burled by the relatives. Not only was
that request refused, Mr. Duffy eaid, but ho
also was refused permission to witness tha
hanging.
Tho Rochdale barber, Ellis, the prison's
regular executioner, sprung the drop after
he had odjustetl the hempen noose not" the
"s'llken cord" which the former knight had
hoped up to a few weeks ago would bo"
granted as his Instrument of death, In no
cordanco to the ancient privilege granted
men of title.
Tho hanging was witnessed only by of
ficials of tho prison. A largo crowd waited
outsldo the grim Jail, and when the bell
tolled, announcing the law's satisfaction,
there were a few cheers intermixed with
groans.
DEMONSTRATION PREVENTED.
Several Irish women at the rear of th
Pentonvitle Jail attempted a demonstration,
led by an Irish member of Parliament, but
were quickly hustled off tho sceno by
guards.
It was eald Casement went calmly to hla
death, led by a Cathollo priest, who min
istered to him when ho retired last night
for the last time at 10:30 nnd when ha
arose early today. The Irish leader had
only recently been converted to Catholi
cism. Two Catholic priests. Fathers Ring and
Carey, heard Casement's last confession '
and administered holy communion to the
condemned man. Both accompanied hlra to
the scaffold.
Leaving his cell on the summons to death
the Irishman appeared slightly nervous, but
there were no signs of a breakdown, and
he smiled gravely at his guard, remarking.
"It is a beautiful morning,"
COUNTRYMEN PRAY.
Several of the Irishmen In the crowd out
side the Jail fell on their knea and prayed
fervently during the tolling of the bell
which announced Casement's death. On the
other hand there were a few among tha
watchers, men and women, who waved hata
and handkerchiefs.
Last night guards raid he spent con
siderable time In writing, but slept soundly
iftep he had retired,
Casement expected a reprieve and commu
tation of his sentence up to last night, but
when darkness came he realized there was
no hope. It was said, and without emotion
went about setting his affairs In order.
Those who witnessed the hanging said
the Irishman was master of himself, walking
to his death and waiting bravely for the
noose to tighten. When the priest recited
tho Litany, Casement responded In a clear
voice;
"The Lord, have mercy on my souL"
ONE BOON GRANTED.
Casement received Just one boon before
his death and that was permission to wear
his own clothes instead of the prison garb
to which he objected strongly on his in
carceration In the condemned cell. He did
not wear a collar. He assisted hli execu
tioner In adjusting the noose and pinioning
his arms and legs.
The Government turned a deaf ear to all
pleas for commutation of sentence. Petitions .
had been pouring in at the home office for
weeks. It was In answer to these that Lord
Robert Cecil asserted that no doubt existed
of the Irishman's guilt and that the only
ground on which commutation could b
based would be political ' expedleney "a
difficult ground to put forth In this country.'
Immediately after the banging tW fol
lowing notice was posted from tha jirUwa
walls:
TiVe. the undersigned, hereby dlra iiurt
the Judgment of death was tbla day x
ecuted on Roger David Casern ta k
ilajtsty' pxlmn of Puiitonvllk, ja swr j,
ense. ""
Sl3J ter - K, MatoaK. iti XtaiM
,,-s
jM-. - ....T.
