S1
. WEATHER
ARIZONA: Thursday,
hunedrshowers, cloudy
east portion.
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
July 26, 23.79. ..
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, AUGUST 3, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
VOL. 19, NO. 58.
i
j vNoziav xinioTuT"!
f
f
V
f
A
t
' l
V
-J
t
?
1
dhimji IS Oil!
01 BILLOWY WAVES FUR
OFF AMERICAN SIRE
Bound For Home, German
Wonder Ship Parts from
Virginia Shore at 8 30 P.
M. Starts Across the Seas.
COUNTLESS SALUTES
ACCOMPANY FAREWELL
Far to Sea, the Restless War-1
ships of the Allies Could Be j
Seen, Greedy to Destroy!
Her.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NORFOLK, Va., Aug. 2. The
German submarine merchantman
Deutschland passed quietly out
of the Virginia Capes at 8:30 o'
clock tonight on her homeward
t !
voyage, apparently unobserved
by the allied warship patrol wait
ing outside the three mile limit.
She was accompanied to the capes
only by the tug Thomas F. Tim
mins, which had convoyed her
down the bay from Baltimore and
by a newspaper despatch boat.
Her departure to sea followed
an eighteen dash through the low
er Chesapeake Bay. After pro
ceeding slowly most of the way
down, she increased her power at
6:30 and reached the capes just
after dusk. None of the allied
cruisers were visible as she pass
"ed through.
Allies' Ship Seen
N On FOLK, Va., Aug. 2. Only one
airship was seen 'off the capes today. ; jalo effect
It was a two funnelled cruiser flying j New Explosion Scare
the British naval ensign. Passing director of Public Safety Frank
vessels reported that there were two Hague announced tonight that he is
peculiar buoys near her. This gave i prepared to carry into effect the pro
rise to some speculation as to the pos-, visions of the commissioners request,
sibility that a net had been hung 'There wa3 another explosion scare
across the channel, but pilots familiar j among Jersey City officials late to
with the waters did not believe such day when Michael Mulligan, superin
a method of preventing the egress of ftendent of the Le.high Valley railroad,
the Deutschland would be attempted. J reported that the smouldering fire
The trip of the submarine and the i from tons of sugar stored in five
convoying tug down Chesapeake Bay warehouses was spreading to two
from Baltimore was started under j freight cars loaded with high explo
ideal conditions. Not a cloud was in j sives and shrapnel at the extreme end
sight as the submarine increased her , of Black Tom Island. The cars have
speed to a 19 knot an hour soon-after been buried under debris and could
clearing Baltimore harbor. The tug 7
fell in behind immediately and
by
dark was 590 yards to the stern.
Too Speedy for Tug
The tug apparently had great diffi
eulty in keeping up with the Deutsch
land: in the darkness Barnes spurted;.
from her funnels, showing that the syrup that spread ovpr much of
stokers were keeping all the steam I thp Js,and Drajnage cana,8 were cut
possible in her boilers. Then the j frQm the burning warenouses to di
wind freshened and dark clouds be-1 vet ne UqoA of SJTUp Jnt0 Npw York
pan to roil in irom me nonam. uimi j
the tug was pitching and rolling1 on j
the choppy seas, her runnnig lights
dipping up and down and the spray
flying back from her bow.
The submarine ahead, a brilliant
light shining from a lamp attached to
the top of her periscope and green and
red running lights hanging below on
l.n A.nm'nr Ska'OV TlnlLri utPaHUv
me iuii. ....j, - .
through the seas on an even keel. Bay
steamers passing up and down bad' FLAG; TO FACE COURTMARTIAL
their attention attracted to the sub- "
marine by the brilliance of her lights.; MONGOMERY, Aug. 2.-Pirvate
especially that on the periscope. They! "Hairy Goldberg of the Alabama na
cast rays from brilliant search lights j UI was ordered courtmar-
on the submersible, looking her over ! "aled today on a charge of disobey
from stem to stern. flnA fn ord,er- The chae, rew Lut
'of his punishment nearly two weeks
Many Vessels Salute agQ by bejng Ued tQ tne grouna wllen
As vessels recognized the submar- accusPd of cursing the American flag,
ine a salute of three whistle blasts tne president, the nation and the of
were blown. The submarine answer- fficers. The officers who ordered this
ed each salute with her own whistle. J punishment were publicly reprimand
In the rays of the searchlights mem- I pj today by Brigadier General C. R.
Lcrs of the crew could be plainly i
seen wanting up ana uon iur ni-i
deck. In the conning tower was Cap-
... . . i
tain Paul Koenig, master of the ves
sel. At his side stood the pilot.
Disappeared Unharmed
Whether she submerged before
reaching the three nr'le limit i not
known. The two accompany ir?s boats
only know thaat she disappeared un
harmed and that to all appearances
she had a clear field ahead to a point
where she could completely submerge
in safety.
Half an hour after the last light of
the. Deutschland had disappeared the
Timniiiis. seemingly satisfied with her
work, turned back and headed up
Chesapeake Bay in the direction of
Baltimore.
Hid In Bay
nnrinr part of the day the Deutsch
(C'ontinued on Page Five.)
BARRING SHELLS
FfiOil JERSEY
CITY TO BE
Railways Seek Injunction from
Federal Judge. In meantime
More Explosions Reported
Threatening.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NEW YORK. Aug. 2. After a con
ference of officials of railways with
I terminals in Jersey City, here, today,
j it was reported that the railroads
, would fight the resolution adopted
! yesterday by the board of councillors
j of Jersey City, designed to prevent
a recurrence of the Ulack Tom island
disaster, by prohibiting them to ship
high explosives within the city limit.
The report was to the effect that the
railways would apply jointly to Fed
I eral Judge Selstab at Trenton for an
injunction restraining the city com
missioners from earrvinir their order
not be removed to a place of safety.
Acting Fire Chief Wni. Kern made
an inspection and reported that the
i blaze, while serious, was under con-
trol of his firemen.
j Sugar Losses Great
The fire and water poured on it
pay
Shrapnel Go Off
Shrapnel shells in the piles of de
bris were exploded by the intenes heat
in such numbers that more than 50
laborers working near the fire were
ordered away and a "dead line" was
established under police supervision.
. . . . . ..nrt idcc
Rricken for exceeding their authority.
DENMARK TO
SELL ISLANDS.
COPENHAGEN, via IxmtAin.
Aug. 2. It is regarded as prob
able that the Rigdad will accept
the offer of the I'nited StateS to
purchase the Danish West Indies,
in spite of opposition from sev
eral quarters including the social
ists wh'J demanded that the
negroes in the island be given
the vote immediately.
The ofTer for the islands is
$25,000,000 and the cessation of
all American rights in Green
land to Denmark. In the offer
is that all existing Dunish busi
ness interests in the Danish
West Indies will be conserved.
;
1
I
i
!;
!
i
BULL MOOSE
Progressive Chiefs Gather in
Indianapolis to Condemn T.
R.'s Flop and Discuss Par-.
ty's Chances.
1HHN M PARIfFR MAY
LEAD NEW TICKET
M R ... LI WIioIa TV
May KeaSSemDie WROie I'O-;
tional Convention in Thirty
Days. Ranks Being Scoured
For Candidate.
INDIANAPOLIS, Aug.
oressive leaders from
2 Pro
several states who dirapproved of the ac
tion of the Bull Moose national
convention will hold a conference
here tomorrow to consider the ad-
visability of reassembling the par
ty's national convention within
30 days to name a candidate for
president as a running mate for
John M. Parker, of Louisiana, nom
inee for vice president.
John M. Parker of Louisiana, who
issued the call for the conference, ar
rived tonight and conferred with Pro
gressive leaders from other state?
but no definite plan has been decided
upon for tomorrow's conference.
Candidates Scarce
A majority of the party representa
tives who are here are in favor tt
naming a candidate for president but
admit that the principal objection to
the problem is the apparent lack of
available candidates.
Victor Murdock apparently is the
choice of a majority of the Progres
sives for president, but he has de
clined to make the race.
Bainbridge Colby of New York, who
made the nominating speech for
Roosevelt at the Progerssive conven
tion in Chicago last June, Is men
tioned as a possible candidate, h:it
h's friends believe he will decline to
run.
Another suggestion is that John M.
Parker of Louisiana be named for
president and another candidate se
lected for vice president.
May Endorse Wilson
A few of the Progressives from east
ern states will, it is said, oppose the
naming of a third ticket and either
urge the endorsement of President
Wilson or fight to have the confer
ence adjourn without taking action
of any kind. The doubt whether a ma
jority of the delegates to the Pro
gressive national convention would re
spond to a call to reassemble at this
late date and believe it would be a
mistake to attempt to put a third
ticket in the field in view of existing
circumstances.
Bitter Against Hughes
While the leaders who will attend
the conference are divided as to the
wisdom of naming a national ticket
at this time they are a unit in pro
testing against the acti'm of the Bull
Moose national committee in endors
ing Hughes and favor some action
which will tend to perpetuate the Pro
gressives as a national party.
Tenth Cavalry Celebrates Fiftieth Anniversary
With Big Pageant, Staged in Wilds of Chihuahua
HEADQl'ARTERS, American Pun!-
tive Expedition in Mexico, July 30. by
motor truck t'J Columbus, N. M., Aug.
2. Mimic battles and rescues under
tire features the pagt-nt with which
the Tenth I'nited States Cavalry to
day celebrated the lifth-th anniver
sary of its formation. This light ing
unit, commissioned at what is now
Fort Sill. Okla.. July 28. 18r.6. during
most 'jf its life has seen service west
of the Mississippi but in addition to
winning laurels in wars against the
Indians it has distinguished itself at
Santiago, Cuba, in the Philippines
and most recently in Mexico, notably
at Carrizal.
Conceived By Negro.
The anniversary celebration given
bei'jre regimental officers and former , l.'.ime and plantation soil,
officers of the regiment now w'th !ie From sons ol slaves men whosi
.expeditionary forces was conceived by faces are black.
Lieut. Colonel Charles Young, of the The first two episodes or the pnge
i Tenth, a West Point graduate, wh'j l ant contrasted the men us they ap-
Caserent
r or i reason
OMockThisA.M.
u.
S. State Department's Re quest for Reprieve Fails to Ar
rive at London, and Various Lords Ignore all Other
Countless Appeals for Leniency. Explain at Length
Why Patriot Must be Hung.
LONDON. Aug. 3, (9:13 a. m.)
in the Pentonviiie jail for high treason at 9 o'clock this morning. He
was pronounced dead nine minutes after nine.
(By Review Leased Wire i
LONDON, Aug. ,1 Sir Ro,er Casement will be executed in the Pen
ton ville Prison at o'clock tomcr i'jw morning for high treason. Lord
Robert Cecil, minister of war trade today made known to the Associated
Press tha: it was tl.t KriUsh government's ileu-rnination not to reprieve
Sir K'jger.
Pevoud the statement of Lord Robert which was in defense of the
the exec ution would
While the government maintains silence as to the final efforts made
jn teaaIf of Sir !Ser. 11 is known that petitions were received as late as
today The foreil;n offiee sayg no communication has been received from
'the state department at Washington requesting a reprieve.
The whole subject sun'jundliig Sir
considered by the cabinet and tle determination to let the law take its
course proved unalterable. The dec.
some surprise as the opinion had be
Sir Roger would be tottipnitrd at
(Bv Review Leaa .; t.i I
The armies in thev three great -cen- j cf.ptured.
., ,i' i On the Russian front, Petrograd re
fers cf recent activity, the Soiuuie re-1 .... ' . . .
I ports merely artillery duel and In-
gion of Prance. Rupia and Galicu. : fantry attacks on the Stokhod aud
evidently have let ,'onsiderably in Turia river fronts and of local Rus
the violent fightiu 'A which they slan offens'yes yn the Strip river tj
have been engaged and are indulging Galicia. all of which were repulsed.'
in a breathing spell preparatory to; Attacks by the Austrian against
further attacks and counter-attacks. ! the Italians at various points, includ
The official communications dealing; ing Monte Climone. Monte Seluggio
with' the operations in these theaters and Castellatto, have been repulsed
Wednesday tell of no single special J with heavy casualties, according to
engagement nor of any notable chang-; Rome.
es in the positions of any of the bel-1
lirerents. Attacking in echelon on a advance against the Turks in the ( au-three-mile
front from the Meuse river: casus region.
to Kleury, north of, Verdun, .t'i3 French ' The Germans have carried out an
have captured several Germau ticncii-j other air raid on the eastern coast
es and points of support In the en-! of England, the third during the tres
gagement 600 Germans were made I ent week.
WILSON WATCHES
THREATENED STRIKE
OF RAILWAY MEN
Federal Efforts Toward Con
ciliation to be Made When:
400 OOO Emoloves Com- '
- j I
plete Their Vote.
i completely canvassed. They said to-
(Bv Review Leased Wire.) ! night that nothing could he done at
WASHINGTON. Aug. 2.-Officials ; preseiit.
of the federal government, including) (;)pS ()f tne chambers appeal to
President Wilson, are closely watch- j president Wilson were forwarded to
ing developments in the controversy cnujrmen f tle congressional corn
by 225 railway systems and their 400.-, niorce committee and the chairman is
00 employes and are preparing to of-, considering calling a conference here
fer every possible aid in effecting ' io impress congress with the advlsa
an agreement and averting a strike. ! ,jijty of immediate action.
Today the president forwarded to; ,
the labor department an appeal he; VILLA ESCAPES BY MINUTES
had received from the chamber of! CHIIil'AHPA. Aug 2 Villa escaped
commerce of the I'nited States through . Carrancistas only by minutes several
Harry Wheeler, chairman of the j times in last few weeks, according to
chamber's committee on railroads, de- General Trevino.
has reached the highest rank in the
regiment arms ever attained by a
negro. ; The third, in which finy troopers.
Producing the different episodes of apparelled as Indians, appeared, illus
the pageant, which depicted the his- J trated a brilliant feat by an officer oC
tory or the regiment, a non-commis- ; the Tenth.
stoned officer clad In heraldic trap- j Lieut. Powhattan Clarke returned
iiiims. recited stanzas jf blank verse, i under fire during a flsht with Indians
composed by Colonel Young, which
gave a synopsis of the history. The
opening stanzas for the ri.Mky roil
call follows:
From Sons of Slaves.
"Come ye: Come ye! and behold
how from beginnings,
"Small and troubles numberless,
full fitly years ago born.
"Horn this military child; from cabin
Ranged
At 9
Sir Roger Caiement was hanged
ination, no formal announcement Pj the effect that
be carried out tomorrow was made.
Roger's case has been seriously
I the L'jvernment will cause
idespread that the sentence of
ijmeiit to life imprisonment.
01
BOTH FUTS IH EUROPE
prisoners and 10 machine guns v.-ere
The Russians are keeping up their!
! daring a strike is inevitable unless
j some strong measures of intervention
i are speed'ly introduced and urging
an inquiry. Acting Secretary of Labor
j Post tonight said he was in close
I touch with the situation but had not
decided what action by the depart
; ment would be taken,
i The federal board of mediation and
i conciliation which is authorized by
law to attempt to avert strikes on
railways, also is keeping watch on
developments, and it soffieials expect
ij to be called on as soon as the strike
vote, now being counted, has been
peared and drilled fifty years ago and
as they performed the duty.
to rescue a wounded trooper.
Their Part in Cuba.
Wnnto of the machine gun tic'jp.
one of the four medal or honor men
on the regimental rolls, was the
central figure in the I'jurth episode.
He was escorted across the field oi
honor by a guard bearing wreaths on
their sabres' points. The fifth illus
trated the part the Tenth took in the
battle of Santiai,'.!. The sixth war
presented by A Troop, which carried
banners bearing the names of the bat
ties in which the regiment has fought
and tlio.-e ol its colonels ho had wVr
the general's stars.
.
HAIL STORY!
DOWN IN SONORA.
DOl'GLAS. Aug. 2. A hail and
rain storm which established a
new record ilr northeastern Sop
ora for severity, fell in the vicini
ty of Cumpas, on the afterncon
of July 27. according to a per
sonal letter received here today.
Three inches of rain fell in an
hour and a half while the hiil
which accompanied it were In
some instances as large as lions'
eggs. Whipped by a strong gale
the hail stripped all foilage from
trees, destroying the fruit and
vegetables crop, broke 'out hun
dreds of windows and killed birds
and small animals.
As the residents of that sec-
tion of Sonora were depending
almost entirely on vegetables
and fruit itr food, the situation
was serious in this respect, the
letter said.
Missouri Representative De
clares War Prices Are Be
ing Charged by Big Pack-;
ing Combine.
SAYS PROFITS
ARE ENORMOUS
Prices Declared Manipulated!
1 .. .i o s-.i T
ATora-aruy. oays uque is
in Fear of Publicity. OppOS-j
es Investigation.
(By Review Leasew Wire.)
WASHINGTON, Aug. 2. Rep
retentative Borland of Missouri
renewed , his charges of a beef
trust in the house today and de
manded action on his resolution
proposing an investigation of
meat prices by the federal trade
commission. He declared the pack
ers were dividing enormous divi
dends while they charged consum
ers with war prices, and had trie l
to stifle the proposal for an in
quiry because they feared pub
licity. Market Jugjled
"The same power which rouM put
down the cattle market in 1915,
nut it up while thij resolution
and
was
pending, could put it down a?ain if
the resolution were defeated, he sam
"The packers now own or control
t.ear'y everylhi. that is valuable in
connection wit.'i the livestock bust
ness. Not only are they the le buy
ers for the farmers' cattle, but they
also control facilities for getting these
faltle on the market.
' Fear Publicity
.,tu i..,-., -.,.. rv.v-i.l!
propaganda among commission men j
and cattle raisers i to secure letters i
and telegrams to members of con
gress opposing the investigation reso
lution. They feel that while the light j
nf mihlti'itv is the urinciDal ver.Don I
SOMc
wmmvi of
RFFF TRIOT IS
ULLI IIIUUI IU
iifiiiTrn mi I
Willi I tU bl
HOUSE
for correction of economic wrongs, ifjnanclal affairs of Mexico it must ns
they expect to gain public confidence j 'rom the Mexican government itsel'.
by stifling a public inquiry they may j " th economic and financial sit jn
!rf ,ht .h result is exactlv t.he on- u' thp southern republic were
posit e."
K, OF C. REPORTS
ENORMOUS GROWTH
(P.v R-.-view Leased Wire.)
DAVENPORT. Ia.. Aug. 2 The !
growth of the Knights of Columbu j
was revealed today in the annual re- '
i.'irt if .tames Klahcrtv. supreme
knight, of Philadelphia, and W. J. I Indicated that new problems are rr
McGlnlev. supreme secretary. New ! ing on General Carranza with th
Haven ' The total membership is i spread of lahor trcatdes. No detail-
placed at ZM.VS. a gain or H1.S4 in j were given, but it was reported that
seven years. The orsani.ation has i discontent was spreading among Mox
I12.1.8S2.SI2 insurance in lorce. a sain! icsn railroad employes and that an
of I4fi 410 842 in tha same period.
In speaking of the Mexican situa
tion. Supreme Knight Flaherty said:
"I.et us ntt be unmindful of the
war cloud that has threatened our own J
helnverf niiintrv. of the estranccment
that has crept between ourselves and ,
the citizens of the republic beyond! DOUGLAS CAMP AILS
the Rio Grande. I.et it be the earnest DOl'GLAS. Aug. 2 An epidemic of
hpe and prayer of all that unhappy : dysentery in a mild form has broken
Mexii'J may awaken from her night-' out in the national guard camps here,
mare of anarchy and take hold of thebelng particularly severe In the camp
work of rehabilitation which every Vf the Second Montana infantry More
true hearted
her. '
Christian desires for
i CONDONS
! PLAN MEETS
! CARRANZft
! APPROVAL
. Formal Acceptance of Polk's
rroposais Are c-xpecieu
from De Facto Government
Today.
MEXICO SILENT ON
FINANCE PROPOSAL
'Meanwhile U. S. Hears Car-
ranza Pressed by Labor
Troubles and Possibility of
Big Railway Strike.
WASHINGTON. Aug. 2. Offi
cials of the de facto government
of Mexico have been favorably
impressed, according to informa
tion reaching the state department
'-oday, by Acting Secretary Polk's
note accepting the suggestion for
a joint international commission
to consider border problems, but
no definite indication has come
as to when General Carranza's re
ply may be expected. At the Mex
ican embassy it was said the re
ply might be received tomorrow,
although officials would not dis
close on what information the
tatnMi was based.
i t-iiseo Arreoomio. ice amnasaanr
j a(S8ignate, noweTer. i, known to have
been tn communication with his rov-
eramvnt constantly sine ue f"vr-
warded the American note.
1 At neither the state department nor
I the embassy would any official pre
j diet what position the de facto au
i thorities would take in regard to th
American proposal that the rommi
; sion lie authorized to discuss ot'ier
i matters than the mil'tary situation ozi
I the border.
Damage Claims Barred
i It was made clear by officials, how
I ever, that the suggestion did not c-r.-:
template discission of acquisition of
i territory, of claims of one govern
S ment against the other arising out of
! the losses suffered by Americans in
i Mexico, on the one hand, or damage
; resulting from the occupation of Mex
ican territory by American troop on
, tne other; or the processes which
, tiroueht tJie de facto eovernment fnt
power.
' General stress was laid on the fact
j that a speedy report was desired from
j lM commission by both governments.
this alone it was said, to prevent any
discussion of financial claims or con
sideration of the dispute over a small
strip of land in th Kl Paso rcicn
which has recurred at various inter-
vals for many years. So far as the
status of the Carranza government
goes, it was added the I'nited State
has extended recognition to it anit
cannot go behind that act.
Officials would not say what mat
ters in addition to the military wouM
be discussed. Io conclusion of the f:-
, ut tMluru VJ tuc- ..i-.it ail miiniiniii-
j ers to be material to the discussion
! at any po'nt. the American romnvs
I sinners doubtlessly would be lnstrud-
ed to undertake it. The possibility
that from such a discussion might be
developed a plan under which Amer
ican hankers could go to the aid of the
de facto government, it was pointed
out. would rest wholly upon the hii
tiative of the Mexicans.
Labor Trouble Grows
Private advices todsy from Mexico
i extensive tieup
of the lines wan
threatened. The state Jepartmen hsd
no reports on this subject. The Mex
ican embassy had heard something of
the trouble but had no definite knowl
edge 0f it.
than 200 rases
this regiment.
are said to exist in
i
I
