Tron gcunty Register
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY.
j subscription:
One Year, 11.50. Si Months, 0.75.
Furnithei on Application. Special In
ducemenls to Home Patron. t
Addreaa Register, Ironton, Mo.
Prlnc Albert l gold iwrywhm
in toppy red bage. Set tidy red
tint, 10c; handBomm pound and
half-pound tin hamidoreand
that t clever cryetal-glaee pound
humidor with eponge-moiBtener
top that beep the tobacco in Bach
eplendtd condition.
R. J. Reynold! Tobacco Co.,
Order of Publication.
In the cirenit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, June 29, i9i6. .
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Burnham,
collector of the revenue of Iron
county, Missouri,
against
Julius H. York, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
Julius H. York, if he be dead, de
fendants. (Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things that the defendant,
Julius H. York, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
Julius H. York, if he bo dead,
are non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
with summons in said state: it is there
fore, ordered by the clerk of the cir
cuit court of Iron county, Missouri, in
vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an ac
tion has been commenced against them
in the circuit court of said county, the
object and general nature of which is
to enforce the lien of the state of Mis
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for back
taxes for the years 1912, i913 and 19 1 1 .
to wit:
All of lot 3 in block 2 of J. H. York's
Subdivision "Arcadia Heights" except
a piece out of the northwest corner of
said lot described: beginning at the
northwest corner of lot 3, thence with
the west line of same south 60 feet,
thence east parallel with the north line
of said lot 150 feet, thence northeast 45
degrees to north line of said lot, thence
west with said line to place of begin
ning: All subject to mineral reserva
tion made by Big Muddy Coal & Iron
Company in book 52 page Ii8, Iron
County Land Records said real estate
being in iron county, Missouri.'
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
the said real estate for the years afore
said, amounting in the aggregate to
sum of fifteen and 30-100 dollars, is filed
with said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at
next term of said court to be holdon
for the county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at the court, house in Baid
county on the fourth Monday in Octo
ber next, 1916, and on or before the
third day thereof (if the term shall so
long continue; and, if not, then before
the end of the torm), and plead, answer
j - . .. : ; . . . . : m i . .
ur uuiuui fau tram iJiumwii a pebiuun, line
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment, in
terest and costs, be sold under a special
fieri facias to be issued thereon. '
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news,
paper published in saidcou nty of Iron,
and state of Missouri. .
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record: '
seal Witness my hand and offioial
seal, this 29th day of June,
- 1UIU.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri. In vacation. June 20. 1016.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and
, to the use of B. P. Burnham, collector
01 we revenue ot iron county, Missonri,
against
Florence Dodee, if livine: or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
b lorence Dodge, if she be dead, de
fendants, (Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
SI
is.
P. P. AKE, Pub! State Historical Society
VOLUME L.
il'')M!lM'l)l 'jli'i'MIIMTTTrnffTTTTTqi 'llfl1
lOBACCO IS PffeRARBD.
:F0R SMOKERS UNDERTHE
PROCESS DISCOVERED IN
MAKIHG EXPERIKENTSTO
PRODUCE THEjjyipSTD&
OTMEiIOBACCpRlCIG
MM
PROCESS; PATEHTEB
aJULi3pil90,7
IllltllllUl il PiffllllllilH
RJj,REYKOLDSTOBACC0C0MPWtY
WiN.iraNSALFw.N.C.liS.A1
IMHiillilH'illlhiHiillllHIliflllMll
cigarette unless you get
iiiililKi
i , n.n; iilm u i,i;iti ! 1 1 ri 2
F rjnT RITF TKFITilNnilh I
with Prince Albert tobacco!
P. A. comes to you with a real reason for all the
goodness and satisfaction it offers. It is made by
a patented process that removes bite and parch !
You can smoke it long and hard without a come
back! Prince Albert has always been sold without
coupons or premiums. We prefer to give quality!
Prince Albert affords the keenest pipe and cigarette
enjoyment! And that flavor and fragrance and
coolness is as good as that sounds. P. A. just
answers the universal demand for tobacco
without bite, parch or kick-back!
Introduction to Prince Albert isn't arty harder
than to walk into the nearest place that sells
tobacco and ask for "a supply of P. A." You pay
out a little change, to be sure, but it's the cheer
fullest investment you ever made!
the
national
joy
smoke
Winston - Salem, N. C. Copyright 1916 by
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting fortlamong
other things, thst the defendant,
Florence Dodge, if living; or the un
known consort,' heirs and devieses of
Florence Dodge, if she be dead,
are non-residents of the'state of Missouri,
and that they -cannot be served with
summons in said state;
It is therefore, ordered by the clerk of
the circuit court of Iron county, Missouri,
in vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an action
has been commenced against them in the
circuit court of said county, the object
and general nature of which is to enforce
the lien of the state of Missouri on the
following real estate, belonging to the
said defendants for back taxes for the
years 1911, 1912, 1913 and 1914, to wit:
Lot I4 in block 6 of J. H. York's sub
division "Arcadia Heights" as per plat
thereof on file in the office of the Re
corder of Deeds for Iron County, Mis
souri; subject to mineral reservation
made by Big Muddy Coal ix Iron Com
pany in book 52, page 118, Iron county
Land Records said real estate being in
Iron county, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of taxes,
interest and costs now due on said real
estate for the years aforesaid, amounting
in the acgrecate to the sum 01 hve and
80-100 dollars, is filed with said petition
as provided by law. ) '
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holdeil for
the county of Iron, and state of Missouri.
at the court house in said county on the
fourth Monday in October next, 1916,
and on or before the third day thereof
(ff the term shall so long continue; and,
if not, then before the end of the term)
and plead,1 answer or demur to said
plaintiff's petition, the same will be taken
as confessed, judgment rendered in ac
cordance with the prayer of said petition
and said real estate, or so much thereof
as may be necessary to satisiy said judg
ment, interest and costs, be sold under
a special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
; A true copy from the record:
sealJ Witness my hand and official
seal, this 29th day of June,
1916.
. JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In tbo Circuit Court of Iron County, Missouri, !n
vacation, June 20. 11)10.
The State of Missouri, at the rotation and to the
use of B. P. burnham, collector of. the reveune
of Iron county, MUsouri,
against
Alexandor H. Huesicon and Pavtd Gorman, if
livlngf or the unknown consorts, him and
deviseesof Alexander 11. Huesiten and David
Oorinan, if thy be dead, defendant.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Tkxps.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff., B. P. Burn
ham, collector of the revenue of lr,ou county, Mis
souri, and nlos hie petition and aiHdavit, sotting
forth araonir other things, that the defendants,
Alexander H. Htiesften and David Gorman,
are non-residouts of the state of Missouri, and that
they oannotho served with summons is Raid state.
Plaintiff states that the defendants,
Alexander 11. Uneven and David Oormnn,
have not heen heard of for many years; thai
SlaintiJT is not informed 'whether thoy. he living or
ead; that if they be dead, their heirs, or if they
died leaving a will, their devisees, are interested
in tlia suhject matter of this petition 1 that the
namesof such heirs or devisees, or both, cannot
be insertod herein because they are unknown to
plaintiff; thst the said
Alexander H. llnesgen and David Gorman,
were tile record owners of the land described
herein, but plaintiff has no Information except as
herein stated of the nature of the interest aod
estate In said land owned by said
Alexander 11. lluesgen and David Gorman,
and therefore it unable to particularly describe
the same, and that in the ovent of the death of
the said
Alexander II. Huesgen and David Gorman,
their said heirs and devisees have by descent or
devise, succeeded to the said interest and estate
of the said
Alexander H, Huesgen and David Gorman,
from whom their interest In the property herein
described is derived. It is therefore ordered by
the clerk of the circuit court of Iron eonnty, Mis
sonri, In vacation, that publication be made
not Ifylng said defendant that an action baa been
IRONTON, MO-
P. A. puts new joy
into the sport of
smoking!
YOU may live to
be 110 and never
feel old enough to
vote, but it's certain-sure
you'll not
know the joy and ,
contentment of a
friendly old jimmy
pipe or a hand rolled
on talking-terms
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
-commenced against them in the circuit conrt of
said county, tne object ana general nam .01
whir.h is to enforce t be lien of the state of Mis
souri, on the following real estate, belonging to
the taid defendants for back taxes for the year
19 U, to witi
The west one-half of the santhwest quarter of
Hflctron K townsnip 3U, nort.n, or range o easi.
acres said real estate being In Iron county, Mis
souri.
(An itemized statement in the natura ot a tax
bill showing the amount of taxes, intorest and
costs now due on said real estate for the year
aforesaid, amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of three and 3H-HI0 dollars, is tiled with said pe
nnon as provntea oy law.)
Ami milens fchnv he find ftmitiar at the next term
of said court to be holdcn lor the county of Iron,
and State of Missouri, at the court house iu said
county on the fourth Monslay in October next,
HUG, and on or before the third day thereof (if
the term shall so long continue; and, if not, then
before the end of the term), and plead, answer, or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, tho same will be
takon as confessed, judgment rendered in accord
ance with tho prayer of said petitou and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be sold
under a special tier! lacias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof be pub
lished according to law in the Iron COUNTY REG
ISTER, a weekly newspaper published in said
couutyof Iron, and State of Missouri.
Jfc&ftni jll. HAW Jtfta, vircuic uiera.
A true copy from the record:
Witness my hand and official seal this 26th day
of June, li)lti.
(SEAL) J ESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron County, Mo.
From Mr. Hilburn.
Mrs. H. and myself were j5ained to
learn of the death of Ben Funk. We
knew him when he was a child and
still think of him as a small boy.
Benny was ft gentle soul,
Sweet memories around him roll,
Beloved by all who knew him best,
Sweet peace to him, bis soul at rest!
I am always glad to read the articles
of "Uncle Itaao" in the Register. In
fact I usually read his and Annapolis
items first. I was somewhat amused
at lia statement: l'I could march up
to the cannon's mouth." So could I if
the old thing wasn't loaded or careless
people would stay away from the
other end. I am not making sport of
Bro. T. Pi Fitz, nor do I question, his
courage, I believe that I love my
country as well as any American. In
fact I love her so well that I want her
always to be right.
At present Mexico is almost pros
trate with Internal strife and our con
duct toward her seems to me to be
like a big school boy bullying a little
girl. What is national honor? Can
it be retained only by fighting? Would
the sacrifice of a few thousand of our
sons on the altar of the God of war
heal our wounded honor? If honor
can be retained only by a resort to
force, why not restore dueling code?
What is good for nations surely must
be good for individuals. Sherman
gave war its proper name and people
who agitato wars except for liberty or
in defense of home and fire-side are
fit Inmates of the nether regions.
Amerioa's bis business has been ac
cused of Boheming to promote war
between Mexico and America, but up
to date has fulled.
The peons of Mexico seek to be free
To bo free they must repossess the
lauds ot Mexico. To do this they must
dispossess all fraudulent claimants,
Americans among the rest, and that
is what hurts your "Uncle tsamuors"
plutocratic sons who own lands and
mines in Mexico.-
' Respectfully, "
F'. P. Hilburn,
Lewisvillo, Ark,, July 2a, 1918.
For Sale At a bargain; the Charles
Madlingor property in Pilot Knob,
Mo. Inquire the Kecuhtub ollice.
OUR OOD, OUR COUNTRY AND TRUTH.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 1916.
Mrt. Henry Smith's Son.
(From the at. Louia Post-Dispatch.
Mrs. Henry Smith of Winamac, Ind.,
wrote a letter to President Wilson
complaining of the hardships that her
son was compelled to undergo as a
member ot the national guard on duty
iu Texaa. '
The President, in his reply, bas ex
plained to her that the national guard
is at the border "not for the purpose
of drill, but for the purpose of pro
tecting the country," and that he
"cannot believe that the men of the"
national guard would wish to be ex
cused from it, or would lose heart be
cause of the discomforts aud incon
veniences of the Borvice."
If Mrs. Henry Smith were a wise
woman she would not be Wiiting to
the President bewailing the trifling
hardships to which her son is obliged
to submit as a member of the nation
al guard. She would be down on her
knees thanking God that the Presi
dent 13 exerting every honorable ef
fort to bring a peaceful solution of
the difficulties with Mexico, and that
her boy is not already out on, the fir
ing line with the boys of 400,000 other
American mothers.
The hardships to which the national
guard is subjected on - the Texas
frontier are about equal to the hard
ships of an ordinary strenuous vaca
tion in the Maine or Minnesota woods;
but war is a serious business. When
Mrs. Henry Smith thinks about the
petty inconveniences to which her Bon
is subjected, let her think also of the
millions of boys In Europe who are in
the trenches and who are dying daily
by the thousands in the midst of the
most ghastly warfare known to human
history.
Let her think of the boys dying on
th8 field, with arms blown off, or legs
blown off, or faces blown off, perish
ing in horrible agony for the lack of
medioal assistance which cannot reach
them. ''
Let her think of the millions of boys
in .Europe who, after tins war
is over, will bo crippled for life or,
with health shattered, will be doom
ed to eke out a wretched existence as
hopeless invalids.
Let her think of the millions of
mothers who are not worrying be
cause their boys bave to eat army
rations, but who are worrying day
and night as to whether they will
ever see their bo,ys again a'.ive. Let
her try to visualize the hourly terrors
of war in which 8,000,000 or 10,000,000
mon have already been killed or
wounded most of them boys like her
boy.
Then let her remember that except
for the statemanship of Woodrow
Wilson the body of her son might be
lying to-day iu an unmarked grave
in Flanders or France.
Mrs. Henry Smith, with true mater
nal solicitude, naturally thinks it is a
great nuisance that her boy should
have to swelter in the heat of a Texas
summer and live off coarse food, and
so it is, but tho troubles of her son are
very small in comparison with what
they would be if the United States had
undertaken armed intervention in
Mexico. Her own troubles, too, are
very small in' comparison with what
they would be if she were watching
the newspapers every day for the list
of the dead and wounded in the fight
ing. :
There are millions of Mrs. Ilenry
Smiths in this country with boys who
would be subject to military duty if
the United States went to war. When
they are disposed to find fault with
the policies of the President, let them
devote a little prayerful consideration
to the millions of Mrs. Henry Smiths
in Europe whose boys are now only
memories. But for President Wilson
these American mothers would be
drinking the bitter dregs of that same
cup.
Widows are to get Pensions.
Through an amendment to the
anuual pension appropriation bill,
passed by tho house of representa
tives, widows who were wives Of sol
diers during their service In the Civil
War will receive 820 a .month. The
amendment further provides that all
Civil war widows Bhall receive $20 a
month when they have attained the
age of 70 years, an increase of $8.
Widows who have remarried, but now
divorced, are again restored to their
former pensionable Btatus.
Under existing laws, only widows
carried prior to June, 1S90, are enti
tled to pensions, while this bill sots
June 27, 1905, as the' limit. The bill
carried nearly $160,000,000, and it was
estimated tho . Jnoreaao , to widows
would amount to somothing like ffV
000,000.
During tbo' debate on the bill a
report from the commission on pen
sions was read, showing that at pres
ent there are 748,147 pensioners of all
classes, and that they were dying at
the rate of 5,000 per month, 50,357
having beon stricken from the roll
during the-paBt cloven months. 1
Congresssman J. J. Russell, from
the 14th district, who is known among
old veterans as "Uncle Joe, (he old
soldiers' friend," is a member of the
pension committeee of the house,
which framed this bill, and he stood
by It And fought for' its successful
passage through the house.
Will Vote on Prohibition.
Charles E. Stokes, executive sec
retary of the Missouri Dry Federation,
has filed with the secretary of state
the required petitions under the
initiative for submission of a prohi
bition constitutional amendment.
The petitions Include more than 25,-
000 names, being about 5,000 more
than necessary to place the amend
ment on the ballot.
The 11 congressional districts cov
ered are the First, Second, Third,
Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth,
Fourteenth, Fifteenth and Sixteenth.
This list embraces four out of the
five largest districts in the state
Fifth, Seventh, Fourteenth and Fif
teenthand also includes all of the
large cities except St. Louis.
The amendment is as follows:
"Proposed amendment to the con
stitution of Missouri to be submitted
to the legal voters of the state of
Missouri for their approval or rejec
tion at the regular general election to
be held on the seventh day of No
vember, A. D., 1916, prohibiting the
manufacture of, the introduction into,
and the giving, exchanging, barter
ing, selling or disposing of intoxioat
ing liquors in the state of Missouri,
except wine for sacramental pur
poses, prescribing a penalty for
violation thereof and repealing all
parts of the slate constitution, state
and municipal laws in conflict there
with. "Be it enacted by the people of the
State of Missouri:
"Section 1. From and after July 1,
1917, no, intoxicating liquor, except
wine for sacramental purposes, shall
be manufactured in or introduced in
to the state of Missouri under any
pretense. Every person who Bells,
exchancea, barters or disposes of in
toxicating liquor of any kind to any
person in the state of Missouri, ,or
who manufactures or introduces into
or attempt to introduce into the state
of Missouri intoxicating li quor of any
kind, except wine as aforesaid, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be punishable by a
fine of not less than $300 nor more
than 1,000 or by imprisonment in the
county jail for not less than six
months, nor more than 12 months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment.
"All parts of the state constitution
and laws of the state and municipal
ities therein, conflicting . with the
provisions of this section, are hereby
repealed."
G. O. P. Backers Retrench.
(From' the New York Morniug Telegraph
(Ind.)
Frenzied efforts at retrenchment
are being made by persons in Wall
Street who during the past several
days have been betting on Huehes
for the Presidency. What causes this
trend is not definitely known.
Former Hughes backers yesterday
were striving in vain to place their
money on Wilson, asking 2 to 1, the
odds they gave themseles when on
the other Bide of the fence. Evidently
Hughes is going back, for Wall Street
sentiment is a barometer by which
elections may be gauged.
On paper Hughes is still the favorite
but only on paper. At odds of 6 to
5 it is virtually impossible to place
money on him.
Broker McQuade, a Curb operator,
has $25,000 he would like to bet on
Wilson at odds of 6 to 5, but the Re
publicans are not In betting mood.
Good News.
Many Ironton Readers have Heard It and
Profited Thereby.
"Good news travels fast," and the
many bad back sufferers in Ironton
are glad to learn where relief may be
found. Many a lame, weak and ach
ing back is bad no more, thanks to
Doan's Kidney Pills. Our citizens are
telling the good news of tbeir experi
ence with this tested remedy. Here
is an example worth reading:
Mrs. Nellie Rust, Ironton, says:
"One of my family was in pretty bad
snaps ana suuorea almost constantly
from backache, sometimes being
scarcely able to get about. The Kid
ney secretions were generally too
frequent in passage, particularly at
night, and often painful. Doan's Kid
ney Pills, procured at the Arcadia
Valley Drug Co., stopped all that and
we have never been without them in
the house since."
Price 50o, at all dealers. Don't
simplv ask for a kidney remedy get
Doan's Kidney Fills the same that
Mrs. Rust recommends. Foster-Mil-burn
Co., Props., Buffalo, N. Y. Adv
Burk and Hobbs at Farmington.
(Farmlngton News.
The Burke-Hobbs revival did not
close Sunday as was expected. The
number of conversions continued so
great each night that It was decided
to continue the meeting another week,
notwithstanding the revival party was
due at Kennett a week earlier to con
duct a meeting. 1
Rev, Hobbs went to Kennett yes
terday and will have charge of the
meeting until Monday when Rev.
Burke and Mr. Loes will Join hi m.
Rev. Burke told The News yes
terday that the number or conver
sions to-date were fully 875. This
numbor is being augmented by from
10 to 20 each night, most of them
being young men. A number of men
over 60 years of age have also been
TERMS i 50 a-Year in Advance.
NUMBER 9.
converted. Most of those converted
are joining one or the other of the
local churches the Sunday following
tbeir conversion.
The men's and children's parade
on last Sunday afternoon was a great
success. More than 300 men and as
many boys and girls were in line.
The parade was headed by Gower's
Juvenile Band and by Judge 0. I.
Garrett, carrying a large U. S. flag.
After the parade the people crowd
ed the large tabernacle. An offering
of nearly $500 was taken for the re
vival party who had labored so
earnestly in the meeting during the
past five weeks. This was the first
collection taken for them. It was
augumented about $200 by a collec
tion taken at the evening service.
At the afternoon service Deputy
Sheriff Sam Doss brought to the tab
ernacle Oscar Hull and Wm. Ross,
both confessed violators of the Local
Option law. They asked to be per
mitted to say a few words to the au
dience which request was granted.
They each in turn confessed their
guilt and said they were willing to
take their just pnnishment, but they
said since this meeting had begun
they both had confessed their sins
to Almighty God and had found for
giveness. They each said their
trouble was due to drink and they
had determined that when they again
were free men never to touch liquor
or have anything to do with the Bale
of it. Their talkB seemed to be
earnest and Bincere and the audience
so received them. They are the
only prisoners left in jail.
The Wonders of Arcadia Camping
Grounds.
(By Miss Alice Klrkpatrick, Bonne Terre
Register. )
After a week spent in the beautiful
hill top home of the Methodist As
sembly at Arcadia your reporter is
again at her desk and is a full fledged
booster for the Assembly henceforth
and forever. The attendance this
year has, broken all former records,
the official enrollment being 1855. It
is estimated that about three fourths
of the total attendance registered
their names at the office. There
were eighty tents on the ground and
much of the time all were occupied.
New features since our last visit are
the preachers building, the white
ribbon bungalow and the pretty little
brnalo'? of the Misses Wright of
Warreiiibn. The Assembly owns 215
acres of ground from which can be
seen thousands of acres of magnificent
scenery.
Part of the ground may be acquired
for a cash consideration of $100 an
acre, but the scenery is free to all and
"lives there a man or woman with
soul so dead" as not to be inspired by
the view from the Assembly Grounds?
If so, he or she is only "fit for treason
stratagem and Bpoils." The campers
were like one big family. Nobody
waited for an introduction to neigh
bors and all seemed to be delighted
with the simple life of the tent
dweller. We simply basked in beauty
and soaked in scenery for seven per
fect days, sank to sleep each night to
the music of seven million katydids
and woke to the sound of the wood
doves' mournful music.
The platform exercises included
sermons, lectures, discussions, music
and all of the best. From the sunrise
prayer meeting to hillside vesper
service it was a "foast of reason and a
flow of soul." Among so many good
things we cannot call special attention
to any but enjoyed them all. Of
course the W. C. T. U. School of
Methods from three to four in the
afternoon on each of four days was
the crowning feature from a white
ribbon standpoint. Three of the
State officers were in attendance,
namely, Mrs. Burger, president, Miss
Shaner, vice-president, and Mrs.
Pitzer, recording secretary. A number
of county presidents, among whom
were Mrs. Rea, our own county presi
dent, Mrs. Sigler of New Madrid
County, and MrS. Henry of Iron.
Leadwood sent a good delegation on
the opening day which was Tuesday.
At four o'clock on that day a re
ception was given at the white ribbon
bungalow to which everybody on the
ground was invited. Mrs. Burger
spoke in the evening to one of the
largest audiences of the week. The
bungalow is most satisfactory and
has sleeping accommodations for
seven persons which may be Increas
ed to 10 by the use ot cots in the 18x20
sitting room. The sleeping porch has
three single beds. There is much to
be doue In the way ot furniture and
bedding. The only articles not need
ed are towels; twenty-nine have been
received. Bonne Terre Union con
tributed furnishing to the value of 825
and bas $10 stock In the building. The
lot upon which the building is erected
was donated by Wm. Whltworth of
Ironton and Is one of the most
desirable on the Assembly grounds,
The oottage Is for rent and is an
Ideal place for an outing. The half
has not been told, but the rest must
wait till next week.
For Sale or Trade.
Hack 10-passenger In good con
dition. Wheels nearly new. Apply
Lib. W 1 UrvLW T.nnn Xf
w it w, uiuaii aivuvvu,
I
JOB-WORK
Best equipped Job Print
ing establishment in this
Bection of the State. We
insure satisfaction; prices
reasonable.
gbTRY us.
Unavoidable Disappointment,
B rudder Johnson was a pompous ne
gro who took an active part In church
work. One night the preacher said:
"Brudder Johnson, will you lead us In
prayah?" "Ah'm sorry to disappoint
de Lawd tonight, pahson," replied
Brudder Johnson, "but Ah has a cold
on man chest" Ladies' Home Jour
nal Big Fellows.
Big fellows with fine futures ahead,
men possessed of pride and self-respect,
have something better to do
than polish bar rails. If they have
odd minutes, they create, play clean
games, walk and talk with children
and wives and distribute happiness.
Health Culture.
The Register Office for job-work
Notice.
SEALED PROPOSALS will be re
ceived at the office of the County
Clerk of Iron County until 12 o'clock,
noon, on August 7, 1916, and then
publicly 'opened and read by the
County Court, for .furnishing forty
(40) cords of Black Oak billet wood
for use at the Court House and Jail.
The Court reserves the right to re
ject or accept any or all bids.
Proposals should be plainly marked
"Proposal for furnishing wood" and
addressed to the undersigned.
By order of the County Court.
ARTHUR HUFF, County Clerk.
Ironton, Mo., July 3, 1916.
Order of Publication.
i
Edith Westerman, Plaintiff,
against
Effie Moser, Nettie Peaslee and My
ron E. Rencehausen, defendants.
The State of Missouri, to the above
namea ueienaants ureeting;
You are hnrahv nnfi fieri fhot. on
action has been commenced against
you in me circuit court ot tne County
of Iron, in the State of Missouri, for
the purpose of securing a decree of
partition and -order of sale for the
following described lands, to-wit;
Lots three (3,) four (4,) five (5), six
(6,) twelve (12,) thirteen (13), four
teen (14,) fifteen (15,) and sixteen
(16,) in block sixteen (16,) and lotsix
(6) and seven (7) in block fourteen
(14;) all in the town of Pilot Knob,
Mo., as the same appear on the plat
ot said town of Pilot Knob, Mo., on
file in the office of the Recorder ot
Deeds for Iron County, Missouri,which
said action is returnable on the first
day of the next term of said Court, to
be held at the Court House in the City
of Ironton, in the County of Iron and
State of Missouri, on the fourth Mon
day in October next, 1916, when and
.where von '.nnv armem anrl .lofonrl
such action; otherwise, plaintiff's pe
tition will be taken &r n.nnfAnsArl En.rtri
judgment rendered accordingly.
iu its urutjreu mat a copy nereoi De
duly published at least once a week
for 4 consecutive wnnlrs in tha luon
County Register, a rooehW t, Aura-
paper duly printed, published and
circulated in said iron county, and
.1 .. I J ! i. 1 I , . - . .
umy ueMignaiiea oy piainiin s attor
ney. And Hnlv fl.nni'mrArl hv ooirl florlr
as most likely to give notice to de-
leiiuaue, mo lam insertion to De at
least fifteen days before said next
term of Sftirl flnnrf
STATE OF MISSOURI,
COUNTY OP IRON. f "
T. J. M TTsnrbinn niot.b- nt ftia rH.
cuit Court of Iron County, Missouri,
hereby certify that the foregoing writ
ing if a full, true and complete copy of
notice of suit and the original Order of
Publication in said cause, as fully as
the same remains and annnarn nf ran.
ord in my office.
in witness Whereof, I hereto sub
scribe mv name nnrl nfftniul oi
and harAtrt aiiIy tha oaqI nf
at my office in the City of Ironton,
T r, . .1 . . . . .
xruu uouuiy, xuissouri, tnis zutn aav
rnn . r 1 . T 1 . n .
icaanj Ulduiy, xvio,
J. M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
NOTICE OP TRUSTEE'S SALE.
Whereas. Frank Rklebnp anrl vitnri
Sklebar, his wife, by their certain deed of
trust, dated the 17th dav of .Oentemher iQi.1
and recorded in book 62, at page in, of Irou
Luumy uiuu necurus, conveyed io me un
dersigned TruBtee, the following described
real estate, situate, lying and being In the
Couaty ol Iron, and State oi Missouri, to
wit:
The north part of the aouthAaot ntinrtor of
the southeast quarter, and the northeast
part of the southwest quarter of the south
east quarter, all In section 32, township 'it,
range 4 east, described as follows: Begin
ning at the northeast corner ot a tract of
lano. deedt-d by "T, P. by Giles" Russell, a
distance of about 51 rods north of the south
east corner of said section, township and
range, and running north to within II teet of
me one cirviaing me soutneast quarter oi
said section into quarters, about 28 rods,
thence running west parallel with the said
line about 112 rods, where it cuts the creek
known as Hayden's Branch, thence down
said creek to its junction with the north
orancn oi stout's creek, thence down Stout's
Creek to a forked sycamore tree, standing in
thedlvldeof creek, thence running in thedl.
rection as shown on a plat attached to a deed
from James A. Hughes and wife to Eliza Sim
merman for said Dronertv: thence nearlv
east to the place of beglnning.contalning ItUD
acres, more or less, and oemg a part of tlie
same land conveyed by D.K. Martin to grant
or by deed, dated May 2Nth, lm. and record
ed In book T, page 525, Iron County, Missouri
reuoTua. ino aescripuon in said deed
hereby referred to and made part hereof as
fully as if the same was copied herein so far
as the Bame relates to the ground above de
scribed. Also two and nftv-hundredtha
(2.5o) acres, lying in the northwest corner of
ol the southwest quarter of the southwest
quarter of section XI, township :u, north,
range 4 east, being all that part ot said
southwest quarter ol southwest quarter of
section .13, township 34, north, range 4 east,
which lies north and west of Stout's Creek;
containing, in the aggregate, 20.W acres,
more or less; a plat ol said land is recorded
in book 27, on page 149, Iron County Rfcorda,
which Is also referred to for the purpose of
determining the correct boundaries ol the
land hereby conveyed; -
Which conveyance was made to the- un
dersigned trustee, in trust, to secure the pay
ment ol the certain promissory note, with
Interest thereon, lu said deed ol trust de
scribed: And, whereas, default has beon made In
the payment ol the Interest due on said
promissory note, and the same remains vast
due and unpaid;
Now, thereioro, at the request ol the legal
holder ot the said note, I, the undersigned,
Wm. R. Edgar, Junior, trustue In said deed
ol trust, will, on
Monday, August trst, iqib,
at the courthouse door In the City ol Iron
ton, Iron County. Missouri, between the
hours of nine o'clock In the forenoon and
Hve o'clock In the afternoon ol said day,
proceed to sell the property herelnbelore de
scribed, at public vendue, to the nlgluixt
bidder, for cash, lor the puposeol satisfy.
Iiik said Indebtedness and the the coats ot
executing this trust.
WM. R kdoar, JiiHioa, Trustee.
Ironton, Mo., July u. mi.
