E ARIZOMA R
LICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
axr IIOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MOKN1NCJ, AU(UST 3, 1916
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
8 PAGES
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 77
ILdM
TW
EPUB
DEU
EVADES
MY
Armies On
ARE NOW INDULGING I
BREATHING SPELL PREVIOUS
, TO RENEWING THEIR ATMS
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
The armies in the three great renters of recent activity, tho Somme
reqion of France, Russia and Galicia, evidently have let up considerably in
the violent fiqhtinq in wrich tncy have been tngaqed and are indulqinq in
breathinq spell preparatory to further attacks and counter attacks. Thr
official communications dralinq with the operations in these theaters Wed
nesday tell of no single speciai err)3cement nor of any notable changes
in the positions of anv of the belligerents. Attackinq in Echelon on a three
mile front from the Meuse river to F-lury. north of -Verdun, the French
have captured several German trenchees and points of support. In the n
oaqement six hundred Germans were piiHe prisoners and ten machine quns
were captured.
On the Russian front Petrcgrad reports merely artillery duels and in
fantry attacks by small dct.-chmenti while Berlin tells of Russian attacks
on the Stokhod and Turia river fronts and of local Russian offensives on
the Strips in Galicia, all of which rr repulsed.
Attacks by the Austrian? aqainst the Italians at various points, includ
ing Monte Cimone. Monte Seluonio rr.d Cc-ctllatto have been repulsed with
heavy casualties, acrordim to Rome.
. The Russians are keeping up their advance rqainst tho Turks in the
Caucasus reqion.
The Germans havt carried out nn other air raid on the eastern coast of
Enc.lnd. the third durinq the present week.
Expecting Soon
To Again Occupy
Kovel And Lembrg
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PKTRoQRAD. Auk. 2. (Via Lon
don) The ultimate Russian occupi- I
tion 01 Koiel and iemberg and the I
retirement of the Austtn-German linej
01 uerrn.se t.eyonu tnc Hug river are
now regarded here as a foregone con
clusion. The armies of Generals von
Iioehm-Krmolli ar.d von Linsingen,
which have lieen badly crippled in
their efforts to hold back the advanc
ing; right wins: of General BriiHsiloff's
forces, have been forced to retreat to
a tKiint which leaves open the ap
proaches to these two important cen
. ters, and the Russians in this region
have begun an encircling movement
which is slowly, but apparently irre
sistibly closing in on the two cities.
1 ne German loss- of the Stokhod
crossing of the river leaves no impor
tant line of defense between Kovel ex-
opt a natural barrier consisting of a
wide swamp which undoubtedly will
retard the Russian progress. But this
movement from the west along the
route midway between the Karny-Ko-vel
and Koxno-Kovel railways in con
junction with the pressure bronchi
from the smith n the region of Vladi-mir-Volynski.
both of which are suc
cessfully developing despite all German
counter attacks, is considered as mak
in he outcome assured.
The operations against the Germans
also are Having an important rf'"-! in
f arilttat ing the advance against the
Austrian defending lyemberg. since
they enable the Russians to exert pres
sure against the Austrian left flank
and Increase that brought on Lemberg
from Hrodv and from the south where
General Letchitskv's troops tire sue
cessfiillv traversing , the flooded Dnies
ter region and are threatening the Oal-
Irian faPi'al along the ro-.to leading I
' i ' "" "
ll is unofficially report that ; the f.er. ,
mans already have be-rnn their rehre-
ment from Kovel nnfl arr prei anng to j
fall hack on Brest-lJIovsk, f hotma and
the general line of defense, following J
me img river.
FIFTEEN ROUNDS TO DRAW
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DAYTON. Ohio. August 2. Frank
Mantell of Dayton and Jack McCar
ron of Allentown, fa., boxed la rounds J mate-; of Vinnccn and t 'y, Ofio Ve
to a draw here tonight. The milling , rpectivelv for deficiency in iftll' and
was fast throughout. Nip Howell of to pav railroads for mail trin-
Dayton, knocked out Mike Hart of In- I portation. The extra expense" was
dianapolis in the third round of a ten I caused bv increase of the weight limit
round bout. of parcel iwwt nmh.u
BORLAND REDS HIS CHARGES
, THftT BE CUE EXISTS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. August 2. Repre
sentative Borland of Missoticj renewed
his rharges of a beef trust in the house
today and demanded action on his reso
lution proposing an investigation of
meat prices by the federal trade com
mission. He declared the packers
were dividing enormous dividends while
they charged consumers high prices.
The liorland resolution, he pointed
out now, had been before the Judiciary
committee for six months, during which
live stock prices had been going stead
ily higher.
"The same power which could put
down the cattle market in 1915, and
put it up while this resolution was
lending, could put It down again if the
resolution were defeated," he said.
"The packers now own or control
nearly everything that is valuable in
connection with the live stock busi
ness. "The packers began a country-wide
propaganda among commission men
and cattle raisers to secure letters and
telegrams to members of congress op
posing the Investigation resolution.
They felt that while the light of pub
licity is the principal weapon for cor
rection of economic wrongs, if they
expect to gain public confidence by
stifling a public inquiry they may find i
that the result ia exactly the opposite."
Mr. Borland declared that in 1815,
"while the consumer was paying war
prices." the Hwlft company's dividends
proounted to 18.7 er cent v its capital
Three Fronts Have
German Airships
Again Fly Over
English Coast
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I.QA'PoN. Au?., H. Herman airships
have again flown over the eastern
counties of Kngland, dropping bombs,
n official communication just issued
pn ys :
"A number of airshios crossed the
roast of the eastern counties shortly
after midnight. Their objective has
not yet leen definitely ascertained,
as the raid is still proceeding. Some
bom s were dropied at various
I pl-'ccs "
A Zeppelin was seen early in:
morning traveling seaward. badly
damaged, according to the F.xrhange
Telegraph's corrcsondent in a south
cast roast town.
Another official communication is
sued this morning said:.
"The raid anpears to have been car
ried nub by six or seven airships. A
considerable number or bombs are re
'Kirted to have been dropped at var
ious place on the eastern and south
eastern counties hut no definite re
ports have been received. No military.
damage has been reported
"Manv anti-aircraft guns were in
action and at least ons of the airshipb
is reported to have been hit."
According to unofficial dispatches
in m P, trngrad. the Russian advance
against Kovel continues. General
Kaledincs' troops, the dispatches sav
have (lushed forward len mllej sinci
they crossed the bend of the Stok
hod river, which would place them
only ten miles from Kovel.
Interest Is now centered in the pre
dicament of General Von Bothmers
army. These forces are threatened on
the northern flank by the Russian
Assure between Kovel and Brodv
and :t the southern end of the line,
iv t.eneral I etschltrkv s adcanve to
warllt, H ,, Jk!:, ., nn1 arr0f!., n.p
:Uyn.j..i :nnit!!a r8ilwav. It th,m ap.
tr,.irK ,,,.lt np? f;cnpr!l, Von ,,.
mf.r artf! .romptly he Is in great
danger
TO MEET MAIL DEFICIENCY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
v AMM.r;TON. Aug.. 2. Secretary
! UcAdoo today nent t. no-pas.. ..dii.
tock, the Armour company's 55 per
cent, the Morris company's 77.3 per
cent and the Cudahy company's 17.5
per cent. At the same time, he said,
the meat producing industry had been
managed so disadvantageously that
there were only 37,000.900 head of cat-
50fi00" 000Pinl,30,0ry' 88 C"mM W'lh
Peace Meetings Are Held
In Large Cities Of Germany
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Hi nt.IV A.. ,ir,.. . ., I
The nmin'iof.".;";:
tionol committee for securing un h.
orable'peuce were held in about forty
or the larger cities of Germany last
night, but at none of the meetings did
. . .... '
the moderates give any precise state-
ment concerning the condi"on o'
peace as the moderates would like to ' ditors against expecting or demand- 1 tures of the disease to their lnhnra
see them. The Hpe-jkers fully dwelt big too much from the results of the tories end endeavor to find a specific,
ci generalties. rarely going beyond war as Germany must remember the j It was announced tonight that thus
the chancellor's declaration with re- ! lot of her confederates as will i.s her; far :is persons classed ns adults, all
En -d to peace.
Professor Adolph llarna-lc wns n
speaker at the Berlin meeting in the
great Philharmonic hall. He made
SIR ROGER
-
BELIEVE ATTEMPT MADE
TO DYNAMITE PENITENTIARY
CANON CITY, Colo., Aug. 2.-
County and state prison officials I
are engaged in an investigation of
what they believe was a plot to
I dynamite the state penitentiary
I and effect the escape of prisoners.
The investigation began with dis
I rnvery yesterday of several cases
I of dynamite in the slope of an
abandoned mine near Radian. Fur
I ther search led to the discovery of
! several kegs of powder a ipiantity
I of groceries and part of anuutomo
1 bile said to have been stolen from
i here recently. Charles lialliday. a
1 paroled convict who resided near
i the mine, is under arrest and other
arrests are expected. Another au
tomobile with the number chiseled
off. . was found near Halliday's 1
place. I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
1 N L I A N A I 'O LI S, Aug. 2 Progress
ive leaders from several states who dis
approved of the action of the Hull
Moose nationul convention endorsing
Charles K. Hughes for president at its
meeting in Chicago June 2tt. will hold
a conference here tomorrow to consider
the advisability of reassembling the
PROGRESSIVES
MEET TODAY IN
INDIANAPOLIS
party's national convention withlnjthere was translated an armed expe-
Ihirlv rin tn ri.,mici,t. a cm.didi.te fi.r I llitinn frr.m i:,0,. i I...
thjrty days to nominate a candidate for
president as a running mate for John
M. I'arker. of Louisiana, notrtinee for
vice president.
John M. I'arker, of Ixiuisiana, who
issued the call for the conference, ar
rived tonight and conferred with pro- '
gresslve leaders rrotn otner states but
no definite plan has been agreed upon j
lor tomorrow's conference.
A majority of the party representa
tives who are here are in favor of nom
inating a candidate for president but
admif that the principal objection to
the plan is the apparent lack of avail
able candidates.
Victor Murdock. of Kansas, appar
ently is the
choice of a majority of the
s for president, but ho has
progressives
coii.v ,,f vri, tti,
made the nominating sp"ech fon-Koose-
.... i... i
" ' " . . . , "'
ade the nominating sp"ech fon-Koose-
veil t the progressive national con-
ventlon in Chicago last June, is men-
tinned as a possible candidate, hut his
friends believe he will decline to run.
noiner suggestion is mat jonn m.
I'arker, of Louisiana, be named for W(.r,. ni.Kfp , K;1V ,,, t,.(1 prisoner
president and another candidate se- .frm death. In Washington, a resoln
lected for vice president. tin w:,s introduced in the senate
A few of the progressives from eas-! which would have President Wilson
tern states, will, it is raid, oppose the
naming of a third ticket and either
urge the endorsement of President Wil-
son or light to nave I lie conference an-
Journ without taking action of any
kind. They doubt whether a majority
of the delegates to the progressive ' ficia I action. In England, the Manrhes
nalional convention would respond to a j ter (iuardian and a number of other
call to reassemble at this late date: anil j papers pleaded for mercy and petitions
believe it would be a mistake to at- ' asking for a reprieve, were circulated
ternpt to put a-lhird ticket in the field 1 in London. Adherents of John ed
in view of existing conditions. mond forwarded to ITcmicr Asquith a
While the leaders who will attend petition signed by six Itishops. twenty?
the conference are divided as to the six members of parliament and fifiy
wisdom o naming a national ticket at one other persons, including a num
this time they are a unit in protesting iber or educators.
against the action of the Bull Moose I'obR Benedict interceded in Case
national committee in endorsing Mr. 'menl's behalf, endeavoring to obtain
Hughes and favor some action which X f"r him from the British gov
will tend to perpetuate the progressive ; ernment. influential Irish Nationalists
party as a national political organiza- (having urged upon the Pontiff that the
ti()n prisoner was not a traitor but was in-
i, a i i.afi t i v..,.. f . t,.,,iu Kpired by Irish patriotism.
apparently reflected tne sentiment of i
a majority of early arrivals when he '.
said: . I
2 a.nt .'"ion natives hv Belgian and British
, .,.-.:,. , wni ho, v..,,: .... ..mo..,
commit tee exceeded its authority when
it met In Chicago in July and endorsed
Hughes. I am in favor of reassembling
the party convention In Chicago at the j
earliest date posHibk- and nominating
a candidate for president."
John M. Parker, of 1misiana. in a
statement issued late tonight, said:
"My only, interest is In having the
progressive party continued as a na
tional political organization. I am
not a candidate for president. I hope
(Continued on Page Three i
I fied ns the thrusting back of Russia
'-om easier relief, where t;he w.us an
intruder to the east, where, she had
her mission, and a termination of the
situation on the west, where Kngland
v.B'j the ruler of the sea and Belgium
. .
her vassal.
' Pro'es-tor Harnuck warned his an-
own t nccess. He appealed to his hear-
crt to have confidence in the admin-
istratlon which he sal.l had done its
utmost to prevent the war and t'p
Let Up In
CASEMENT
HER TOLL FDR
n-
o
(By A. P. Leased Wire)
! LONDON, August :5,
! ):i:ia. in. Sir Kov
! raseniont was lian-d in
IYntoiivillo jail for high
I treason at o'clock this
! morning. lie was pro-
nounced dead nine min-
utcs after nine.
-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Honored with knichth.w.d a tiile
since taken from him by King George' 8
ENGLAND M S
HIGH TREASON
order for his many years of service! WASHINGTON, Aug., 2. Officials
for Great Britain as Consul and Consul ! of the f dial government, including
General. Roger Casement assumed i President Wilson, are closely watch
leadership, at a period of his country's i ina developments in the controversy
crisis, in the recent Irish rebellion, the.! of 22Ti railway systems and their !'.
plans for which were laid while Case- j hh. employes and are preparing to
ment was in Berlin, where he was re- offer every pcssible aid in effecting
porieu to nave negotiated an under-
; standing with the German iimriui
j thorities.
British naval supremacy brought nn
i abortive close to Casement's nlatm The
' Jernian tramp steamship on which
Ullion irom l.frmailV neurlv tfi t h
U'cef .! ut Ir,.l II.. " : I - ,
veJr . i . "i miajiess some sir.mg measures or inter- hls,,,, K!lSPO Arredondo. the amhas-
whenThel ...rf tLl7n crow ' v'"Uoa ar". "I'dily introdKced" and Kador-designate. however, is known to
i , , ,L! .''i11' " c,S,"': "R inquiry. Acting Secretary ,,aV(. ,,e,.n jn communication with his
u ,i b,,,rkadlnB : KiiBlish ..f labor I'ost said ton:ght he was in ' cov,.rninent constantly since ,ie for
Rarslups would capture it. The crew clone touch with the situation, hut :.r.i.t n,. inrin n..t.
were mar
le TT-isoTlers. The tramt) had
"ooveu irom rviei tiy a German
submarine, from which Casement and
a companion landed on Irish soil tvhero-
they were taken into custody before
their plans matured.
In May. Casement was given a pre-
''miliary hearing and was committed
for in il on the charge of high treason.
ijiw In June Ihe trial was Iteun.
Casement plc.iding not guilty and ut-
!'.'ri"e a ho worked In
";" ' " Interests and "that he had
.accepted erman Cold as a bribe.
1 h court's verdict was guilty
and
the sentence of death bv h
r, .,,,.,, v.,, , , ,
.,, ' , , , . , . ' "H
afler appeal by his counsel, confirmed
7' ,, " ,U , , .
... . ..
in July.
i nndon
press generally ap-
proved the fate legally fixed for Case-
,. .,, in Amer,cu ,.,ri. ..tr..r,
Intercede with the Itritish government,
,-,nd numerous petitions received at t.h
(White -House from many sources ask-
mg that a plea for clemency be
I mbled. The senate resolution was n
adopted. President Wilson look no of
osiM.liwhcda reputation through 1ns
inves-ligation 'of the Ccnpo and Soulh
r,,,,M.r Mlltltors. The then Sir Roger
(Continued on Page Two)
o '
To Investigate
The Problem Of
Child Paralysis
Republican A. P.. Leased Wire
NK'.V YORK, Aug.. 2. A series of
Investigations with the object of
solving the problems which have
arisen from the epidemic 'of infantile
paralysis, in this city, will be begun
here tomorrow by several leading
pathologist; and "bacteriologists of the
country. Dr. Simon Flexner. of the
Rockefeller Institute for medical re
search, probably will fireside at the
invest igat ions.
When the physicians meet, it is
planned to discuss thoroughly the
nature of the epidemic, and its prog
; rcss. Then the doctors will lie or
1 ginizod Into committees to divide tiie
work of investigations. Sessions will
. ......
I continue tomorrow and Friday alter
which, the physicians will take 0:1 1 -
J over IB years, have had the disease:
: One of the deaths reported todav was
the four year old daughter of Dr.
j Thomas C. Chalmers, an attending
physician in the Queensboro hospital.
wnere several cases nave, been treated,
The -Violent FightingMHWO
PAYS THE
ENDS INSPECTION OF
TROOPS IN ARIZONA
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
DOUGLAS. Ariz., Auq., 2. General Tasker H. Bliss who has been in
specting the national guardsmen stationed along the Arizona border, pass
ed throuqh here today en route to Columbus, N. M having completed his
tour of the border.
A serenade and reception was tendered tonight to Briqadicr General
Georpe A. Dood, retired, by the officers of the regular army and national
quant itationcd here. oevcrai hunored officers and civilians shook the
hand of the veteran and wished him happiness in his declining years. He
will leave hfre tomororw for New York.,
An epidemic of dysentery in a mild form has broken out in the na
tional quard camps here, being particularly severe in the camp of the Sec-,
ond Montana irfmtry. More than twe hundred cases are said to exist
in this regiment.
! RIB STRIKE
U IS INEVITABLE IS
NHTHF RFIIFF
IIUII 1 I I U UUblUI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
an. agreement ami avoiding a strike.
To clay the president forwarded to
the lab ir de)ai iment an appeal he
had received
from the Chamber f
ommorce
of
the l"iited States I
j through Harry Wheeler, chairman of
Ihe Chamber's committee on railroads,
j. - s :
I Hiwlurinc triUr. i invitn hlo "iin-
! . . . . . , .
I had nni decided whether .-icrlon hv
the deportment would lie necessary.
The fedcrcl hoard of mediation andjwh.it Hisition the de facto authorities
conciliation which is authorized 1V ' won 1J take in regard to the American
law to attempt to avert strikes on I proposal that the commission lie mi-
railroads, a No N keeping watch of Uiorized to discuss other matters than
developments, and it.s officials exectjiiK. military situation on the border,
to be called on as soon as the strike jit was made clear by administration
vote, now b-inu counted, has been (officials, however, that the suggestion
completely canvassed. They said to- i ,,t contemplate discussion of ac-
nicht tl.at nothing, could he done at 'quisition of territory; losses suffered
present. lb v Americans in Mexico, or damage re -
Cooies of The chairmans apical to 'suiting from the occupation of 'Mexi -
Provident WiNon verc forwarded to,:in li.rritnrv bv American Iroims or of
! chriirmnu of -the congressional com-
mcn e committees and to reprcsenta-
iiw.. f n, nr,i u, ,.m,.i,.
...... ... , in. , ,,, , ...
; The eh-iirman is considering calling
i n conferen e here to impress con-
grens v.ith the advisability of im- Mono, it was said, would prevent any
inedipt" action. ulisenssion of financial conditions or
Mr. Wheeler said he had recently ! consideration of the dispute over a
attended a meeting of representative:: I small strip of land in the Kl Paso re
of the employers and employes inlgion which has recurred at various in
New York and that as a result his j tcrvals for many years. So far as the
"'ontinued oir Page Two)
WEATH LIST
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COBALT. Out., Aug. 2. A conserva
tive estimate tonight places the num
ber of dead in the fire swept area of
Northern Ontario at 400.
A recurrence of the fire, a destruc
tion of other settlements is feared.
To the west of Klk Lake a serious
outbreak is feared. The men have been
wirtidtawn from the Miller indepen
dence mine two miles from Boston
Creek' and it is reported that many
TO FIGHT ACTION
1 EXPLOSIVES III
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
N'KW YORK. August 2. After a
conference of officials of railroads with
terminals in Jersey City here todav. it
was reported that the railroads would
fight the resolution adopted yesterday
hv thn hnnrrl of commissions of Jersey
City designed to prevent a recurrence
of the Black Tom island explosion by
prohibiting the shipment or storage of
high explosives within the city limits.
The report was to the effect that the
xix :
Ininnction restraining the city com-
missioners from , carrying their order
into effect.
Director of Public Safety Frank
Hague announced tonight that Jie is
prepared to carry into effect the pro
visions of the commissioner's request.
There was another explosion scare
among Jersey City officials late today
when Michael Mulligan, superintendent
of the Lehigh Valley railroad, reported
thtvt the smoldering fire from tons of
sugar stored in five warehouses was
i ... , :i. t
spreauillg 10 iwo ueiKix ciuo loa.itu
with high explosives and shrapnel at
the extreme end of Black Tom island,
The cars had been buried under debris
and could not be removed to a place
of safety.
I Acting Fire Chief William Kern made
an inspection aim repoi ii'ii inui me
blaze, while sr rious, "was under control
of his firemen.
The fire and water poured on it have
turned thousands of tons of sugar into
PENALTY
IRE IMPRESSED
AT ATTITUDE OF
S
Republican A. P. Leasee Wire
WASHINGTON. August 1. Officials'
uf tlie de facto government. of Mexico
have been f m vor:, I ! v- iiro .recf.d
cording to information reaching; the
state department today bv Acting Sec-
retarv folk's note accepting the sug-'
gestion for a joint international com -
mission i.. consider i.,,rw t .r,, i, iem
ONI
but no definite indication has come as8' the Old Point and Cape Henry
to when General Carranza s rcpiv ma - channels and awaited the coming of
j be expected.
the reply "might be received tomorrow,
,.' uu,..lr.w won! I n,,r"i?,,
almoin OHItiaiS OHIO 1101 (IIMlOSe
on what information the statement was
i . i ,u. ,i.' .
'the embassy would anv official tired ict
the r,r,eesses which brouirht the tie
, facto government into oower.
I ., r- ,k.i
,,.,'rtl Mies? ,'11 I'l i
"a speedy report w-is desired fr
.pi ' le
j. This
i commission hv both government.;. Inisiworn hv her crew who crowded the
I -
(Continued on Page Two)
REACHES 400
families near Round lake in the same
district have suffered severely.
It is definitely known that twelve
persons lost their lives at the Croesus
mine near Matheson. In the vicinity of
Iroquois Falls the death list is grow
ing as the rescue parties continue their
search.
Reports tonight state that Peskin
ika is on file and that lliere is a ser
ious outbreak in Morisetle township
north of Kirkland lake."' Cobalt is en
veloped in a pall of smnke,
PR11TI1G
THE CITI LIMITS
I syrup that spread over much of the
I island. Drainage canals were cut from
i the burning warehouses to divert the
i flood of syrup into New 1 ork hay.
Shrapnel shells in the piles of debris
were exploded by the intense heat in
such numbers that more than fifty i
1 laborers working near the fire were!
ordered away and a "dead line;; was
j established under police supervision.
I
I -r-s T"t
1 ug l immins
,
Passed By
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, August 2. The tug
! nied the German merchant submarine
i Deutschland down the hay from Haiti-
i more, reported to the United States
I i .1... ..a...... mile iIa VI -j vi ittml
neunaiu.v n.iua. ...... ,m.,...,.. i,
; Koads tonight that the Deutschland
had passed out of the capes at 8: au p.m.
The Timmins' message was picked
up by the destroyer Sterrett, which re-
layed it to the Norfolk navy yard The
destroyer then was outside the' three-
mile limit to see that the submersible s
passage out was not interfered with by
the allied cruisers off the capes until
she had passed out of the territorial
I waters o the United States.
PASSES OUT OR
IA CAPES
Republican A. P. Leased, Wire
NORFOLK, Va, Aug. 2. The '
German submarine merchantman
Oeutschland passed quietly out of
the Virginia capes at 8:3U o'clock
tonight on her homeward voyage,
apparently unobserved by tho al
lied warship patrol waiting out
side the three mile limit. She was
accompanied to the capes only by
the tug Thomas F. Timmins, which
had convoyed her down the bay
from Baltimore and by a news
paper dispatch boat.
Her departure to sea followed
an eighteen mile dash through the
lower Chesapeake bay. After pro
ceeding slowly most of the way
down, she increased her power at
6:30 and reached the capes just
after dusk. None of the allied
cruisers was visible as she passed
through.
Whether sne submerged before
teaching the three mile limit is not
'known. The two accompanying
boats only know that she disap
peared and to all appearances
she had a clear field ahead to a
point where she could completely
submerge in safety.
Half an hour after the last light of
the Deutschlapd had disappeared, the
Timmins, seerhingly satisfied with her
work, turned back and headed up
Chesapeake bay i the direction of
Baltimore.
During part of the dav the Deutsch
land had remained hidden at a cove
up Chesaieake bay.
ror several hours before the begin-
nin5 h('r final dasllshe. lay.
in a
secluded retreat near Tangier island,
about 4i) miles above Cape Henry. The
ste:"rr Somerset and the government
1u"y """der Ivy reported during the
parly afternoon that they had passed
' npr at lnat P01"1- The I"ress noat then
took a position near the dividing point
l the undersea vessel.
I Shortly before six o'clock the first
i 'si"ht "f craft . wa,3 i'htainod. Ap-
parently she was about five miles away
, . ... ,
ana was ,nw lne water, oniy ner
conninK tuner mkihiii. a lie ijniixniis
was a short distance behind and they
were traveling about seven miles an
hour.
When near the entrance to Mobjack
bay, the Deutschland siphted the press
' boat and immediately reversed herself
and appeared to he making for the
bay. After running for about two
miles she again headed south until she
was abreast the Timmins and then
j both vessels put on full speed ahead
toward the press boat. Suddenly they
! turned off as if to go down the Old
ji Point channel, but when the dispatch
; boat entered the chanenl they changed
1 their courses and headed for Cape
I Henry. '
I A llie Opiitschln nd armroached. it
. h-:is nnnarent she was carrying falsft
superstructure, slightly lower than her
' : . . -. ii
1-tlIIIllIlU IIIMtl. IL KHS Pll d ,.,e'IC-
ar
w
and blended with the .oilskin coats
I
deck. When about a mile from the.
press boat the submarine began to
clear away the false superstructure and
take soundings as if preparing to dive.
Just as the superstructure was cleared
the Timmins moved ahead of the un
dersea liner and signalled that the.
boats intended to pass on the starboard
side. Immediately both vessels in
creased their speed arid put over to
the stsjrbnard.
As the. Timmins came alongside tho
press boat at a distance perhaps of 100
feet and with the Deutschland moving
slowly close to her staJfboard side.
Captain Hinsch of the German war
bound steamer N'eckar. who,had rharge
of the clearing of the Deutschland
shouted through a megaphone, "who is
that?''
I'pnn being advised that it was a
(Continued on 1 age Two)
n
1 WATCHfNG PROGRESS I
I OF THE DEUTSCLAND I
I LONDON" .Aug.. 2. Naval of- I
I ficcrs here are watching the re- I
! ported progress of the German I
j sut.maiine merchantman Dcut- I
I Nchhnd with considerable interest I
I hut express little hope that she I
I will not make the homeward I
! voage safelv. An official of the I
I British admiralty, discussing the I
possibility of the under sea liner I
j not fetting away safely, declared I
I the British navy had no policy I
I to announce in regard to the op- I
i ern lions against her. except the '
I drterminatimn to arrest her if pos- I
i sibie. He declined to discuss the I
! question whether the Deutschland I
! would he sunk if sighted hv a I
I British warshio but reasserted the I
I statement that Great Britain de- I
,! termined not to recognize the boat
I 1 as an ordinary merchantman. I
' O
' "
T I I f
Reports tabes
i
The Deutschland
, The commandant of the Norfolk navy
' yarrt sent the fnllowing to the navy
department:" C. S. S. Ster.Ttt reports:
Submarine reported Dy tug rimmins
to have passed out of the capes at 8:30.
Am 1 1 1 u i H n t li ri.D.mi In 1., .'
... ........... .....v.. ..,.,..
While the Sterrett's report did not
mention tne leuiscniana ny name.
navy officials had no doubt that the
reference was to her. The Sterett
with three other destroyers and the
armored cruiser North Carolina, it was
pointed out, were doing neutrality duty
off tho capes with a particular view to
preventing violation of American ter-
ritorial waters in connection with the
Deutschland's departure.
no surprising statements regarding attitude of which toward certain ncu
the aims Qt the yar, which be speci- i tral history would mw day Justify.
S J
