Oregon Historical Society
Coni 207 Second St
Ashland
'Ashland Grows While Llthla flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland. Oregon, Lithla Springs
"Oregon's famous Spa'
VOL. XLI
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 1916
NUMBER 21
tidings
Council Accepts
Resignation
The resignation of F. E. Watson,
which was filed July 20 with the city
recorder, was accepted without dis-
cussion Dy tne council i uesaay even-
ing, the mayor sU'.ting that he had
opposed holding the meeting upon
which he lays the blame for Mr. Wat- j evening this boys' band, which Is well
son's antipathy to the council. At spoken of by the newspapers of the
a meeting of the park board Tuesday, cities to the south where they have
Mr. PennlBton was elected secretary j appeared, will play a concert in
of the board. Mr. Watson's resigna- Lithia Park bandstand, followed by
tion read as follows: j a dance at the Bungalow. The boys
"To the Mayor and Council of the come from the best homes in Oak
City of Ashland: J land and are recommended as fine
"Gentlemen. I hereby tender musicians and gentlemen. They will
my resignation as a member of the : probably camp for several days in
Ashland Park Commission, to take : Lithia Park.
effect on Wednesday, August 2, 1916.
I name this date because I am under
obligation to the commission, as its
secretary, to help clean up the work
of the present month.
"I have, until recently, enjoyed my
work upon the commission and have
flattered myself that my services
were of value and were appreciated.
I now resign because of the marked
unfriendly attitude of some members
of the council and more particularly
the mayor, toward the commission. !
That attitude has of late become
rass the commission In the exercise
of the duties imposed upon it by the ;
charter. Recently it has gone so far j
as to encourage, if not to incite, open 1
defiance of the authority of the com- J
mission on the part of its employes. j
"Since this attitude is manifestly!
not dictated by regard for the public
food It sppitiq pvldpnt tbnt It Is thp
... , , ,. . i
result of personal animosity. It is
certainly fatal, as I suppose it is in-
Ipnrieri to hp to thp HRpfiilnpRK nf
. , ' I estlng information may be gained by
the commission. ! . . ...
"I am, therefore, retiring in theitll0se Interested In the sports.
interest of harmony, that the mayor
may fill my place with someone who
will be more subservient than I am
inclined to be.
"F. E. WATSOX,"
lYtV MfTl FftTTTl ( George Hargadine disputed the 8 big four-column cut showing Vlce-
tdlAiy IflCU A Vim j right of way on Main street at the president E. 0. McCormick and Gen-
fAfArtrrianf imn'80Uth entrance t0 the Plaza T"esday!eral Passenger Agent J. M. Scott of
uOVemment vamp j afternoon with a Ford car, coming j the Southern Pacific proudly display-
! out rather the worse for the mix. ing twenty beautiful rainbow trout
, .. ., ., ,. -
Pnder the direction of E. F. Rice,
a party sent out by the United States ;
government to classify the 2,300,000 j
acres of the Oregon-California rail- j
road land grant lands which recently j
came back into the hands of the!
government, is mobilizing In Ashland
and will commence classification op
erations from headquarters estab
lished at Pinehurst, on the Klamath
Falls road. Sixty to seventy men
will be employed In the work, most
of whom are being brought down
Irom Portland. Supplies have been
arriving for the past several days.
Four and a half tons were shipped
by express, constituting the largest
express shipment ever received here.
Tents and camp paraphernalia In
great quantities has also been as
sembled and Is being transported to
Pinehurst by auto truck. Dave
Good's truck left this morning with a
load and the Howard auto line took
a load of men. A total of about 10,
000 pounds of freight will be taken
to the camp. The party will work
from the Klamath county line west
wards first and a systematic cam
paign followed in covering the im
mense acreage which must be classi
fied. It is estimated that close to 1,000,
000 acres will come within the agri
cultural classification, and this will
throw open to buyers 6,000 claims
of 160 acres, which may be pur
chased at a cost of $2. SO per acre,
according to the grant land act
When the land is thrown open the
government officials expect to have
dozens of applications for the best
claims and many for all of tha agri
cultural claims.
The work will be rushed through
in an effort to complete the classlfi- j
cation before winter sets in, so that
the lands may be thrown open
to
entry.
Convert Park Hotel
Into Sanatorium
Dr. D. M. Brower and Dr. R. L.
Ruiter of Roseburg hav leased the
Park Hotel and will convert It into a
hospital to be known as the Lithia
Part Sanatorium. Remodelling to
Buit their purpose is now going on.
Hydro-electric treatment will be their
specialty.
Earl and Floyd Fraley were Med
ford visitors last week.
Oakland Boys' Band
Concert and Dance
The Oakland Boys' Club band, an
organization including thirty-four
boy muslcian9 ot Oakland, will arrive
in Ashland this afternoon and estab-
1Isn camP ,n the Park- Tomorrow
mi i. i i i a. i i a l
me uanu is iravenng uirougii me
j country making its expenses as it
j goes. Tills Is their tenth annual tour
of the coast. They have been camp
I ing at Yreka the last night or two.
n,AtjA (.-.
: AwIUSLlC mCIICS
At the Vining
Beginning with this Friday even
ing, the Vining Theatre will, In addl-
. 8hoWi
i present an attraction which will In
terest every man and boy. Man
ager Bergner has secured the Selig
Athletic feature series and will show
one of the series every Friday. The
series includes features on boxing,
wrestling, running, billiards, roller
skating, ski Jumping, swimming, ice
skaters. Each feature shows a num -
ber of the premier stars at each of
. me upurm, in tti'iiuu, mm ciuse-up
i views from which valuable and inter-
Ford Sneaks Up
On Geo. Hargadine
George was crossing the street when
. ... . . .. .
luc car Biieancu up uu uiuj iium
around the corner of the city hall and
knocked him down and Jumped on
him. George is used to bear and
deer, but had never been attacked by
a Ford before. Giving battle with
characteristic determination, he
grasped the Ford by the front axle,
and after it had dragged him twenty
feet, bulldogged It into submission.
The four men in the car stopped only
long enough to find out that George
was not killed, cranked up and drove
on south. Bystanders got the car's
number, which was 21947 Ore. Ac
cording to the records', this car is the
property ot R. Biberstedt of Eagle
Point..
The accident Is conceded to have
been purely accidental. The car was
not traveling fast and had turned
the corner and started up the hill.
The driver overlooked honking his
horn. Mr. Hargadine sustained a
badly sprained ankle and minor
bruises. That he was not more se
verely injured was due to his pres
ence of mind in grasping the axle as
he went down, thus preventing him
self from going under the wheels.
Dogs Have Their
Hour at Council
Dog licenses came up for hot dis
cussion at council meeting Tuesday.
The recorder stated that last year it
cost more to take a dog census and
"kill off the dogs whose owners were
ashamed or too poor to pay their
licenses, than the total amount col-
tfnm lffionaaa PnniifltlmDII
Banta favored goIng to the jength of
hanglng tie licenses on the owners
of the dogs, 'presumably as a badge
of honor, if necessary to make every
one who owns a dog pay up.
Editor Wolf's dog, which slum
bered peacefully just outside the rail
ing during the talkfest, was brought
into the discussion and Mr. Wolf
frankly admitted that he had not paid
the license, but believed In dog
licenses and intended to get one.
Are you going camping? If so,
you can find a suitable shoe in a
light-weight, bellows tongue at $2.25,
$2.50 and $3 at Mitchell & Whittle's.
Mrs. A. True Lundy was up from
Medford attending to business mat
ters this morning.
Men Who Made Celebration Sl!CCess!sweeney Case Judge
Plan for New Chamber of Commerce!
.$
At the city council meeting Thurg- lng over of the office and hall to the '""d" wno ,a trlal J,1(,Ke !n the case soeiatlon to the number of 100, ac
day night the council asked that pre-! club, preferring to await the outcome ' ot J- w- Sweeney vs- Jackson County, j companied by their wives in many
limlnary estimates be made of tho of Monday's club meet. left 5Ionclay morning to inspect the cases, will be entertained at a lunch-
cost of remodelling the room In the j lf tIle c,ub doeg not wjsh tQ Rc t Siskiyou Highway, payment for j eon in Lithia Park Friday evening, a
city hall formerly used as a Jail and tlie proposition to pass out of exist-! Wh'Ch nW under dlspute- He waa concert by the Oakland Boys' Club
now used as a storeroom, so that it ence Wth" honor no doubt the ouar- i accomI,anled by Evnn fieames and N. band and other features. The editors
may be used for office purposes. The
aciion ionowea upon a proposition
. . ., . .
number of the live young business
, .. .. . .. ,
men of the city who were the main
, . . .. . .. .
factors in the success of the roundup
! and celebration.
. . , ,
TMa ffrnnn nf vnnnv man In rtpnor
... . ' . . .
that the impetus and spirit aroused
I by the celebration and the crowds 1
, u.h,h ro ,.,,.. LuiaA M. m.
mer may not be lost, have determined
to organize a Chamber of Commerce,
which will be a new organization,
free from the things which have an
tagonized so many to the old Com
mercial Club. At next Monday's
I meeting of the Commercial Club the
... - .. .
group wnicn iorms me nucleus ior
the new chamber will offer to take
over the assets and liabilities of the
Commercial Club and all of the mem -
bers who desire. If the club looks
favorably on the proposition, the pool
win .1 i i. ...in i.. ji ,. J
uu uiniaru iauies iu e uisposeu
of, the proceeds used to clear off the !
indebtedness, and the council will be!
asked to take definite action upon
the request to provide an office in
tne remodelled room in the city hall
, and tne use of the council hall for
J assembly purposes. The chairs now
iln use at the Commercial Club and
the furniture will be moved to the
office and hall and headquarters es
tablished. The council did not take
definite action regarding the turn-
Picture Will Make
Anglers Envious
The Portland Telegram publishes
which they caught in a morning's
fishing at Pelican Bay. The largest
weighs nine pounds and the twenty
tipped the scale at over 100 pounds.
The expenditure of a comparative
ly small sum will put Pelican Bay
within a three hours' automobile ride
of Ashland by the Dead Indian road.
Oil Stove Fire
Threatens Hotel
When a match was applied to
leaky oil stove at the Park Hotel
Wednesday evening, the oil, which
had ran over the floor and down be
tween the walls, caught fire and
threatened to cause serious trouble,
The fire department was called and
extinguished the blaze before any
serious harm was done.
Strike Vote Count
Will Take to Aug. 7
According to latest dispatches sent
out from New York, the count of the
400,000 members ot the railroad
brotherhoods' strike votes will not
be completed until August 7. Early
Indications are said to point toward
an overwhelming majority in favor
of the strike if the demands are not
granted.
The executive board of the broth
erhoods is reported to have agreed
to a resumption of conferences to be
gin in New York August 8, according
to information given out from the
United States board of mediation at
Washington.
Disprove Ament
Dynamite Theory
The grand jury which was called
together to examine into the acci
dent which wrecked the machinery
at the pump at the Ament dam re
ported Wednesday afternoon, finding
structural weaknesses In the big six
foot pulley responsible and disprov
ing the theory that dynamite had
been used. The pulley apparently
broke when going at high speed,
wrecking the machinery.
School of dressmaking. Room 2,
Allen building. Phone 296-Y. It
?' ' 4,
. 4 i. .
torg in tl)e clty ,ia, wm be taken by
the 0( club
while no definite organization has
, M , .. ... . .,
,,eer made., the constitution of the
i ,,,,,
' new organization would include all
I, , . . . .. , , ...
" ' " ! , "
(recommendations made by the cora-
,
mittee from the Commercial Club
I which recently investigated the
club's condition and reported reconr
! mediations.
The move to the city hall, whether
made by the new chamber or the old
club, will be an advantageous one
as it will eliminate an overhead ex -
pense of about $35 a month and at
the same time give club headquarters
!on the eround floor whprp thpv nrn I
i -
j acce"''e and can become a center of
activity.
1 Th meeting of tho Commercial
! Club next Monday, when this matter
conies up, will be a vital one. The
! Imrkpra r t iha r a u- nrrronivof Inn
. - -
liaVP a number of arguments which
they will present for letting the old
club make its exit.
The old club has labored under
overhead expense which ate up the
income, large indebtedness and the
lack of Interest which these reasons
for Ineffectuallty have created. The
backers of the movement for a new
organization believe that quicker re
sults may be gained by the formation
of an entirely new organization.
Signs Will Point
Way to Station
Of course, lf you have lived here
any iiength of time you know bow to
get to the Southern Pacific station
without getting lost and ending up
at the city electric light plant or
Mountain View cemetery. Strangers
who aren't on to the curves of our
streets are not so blessed, and to re
lieve this status of affairs, on motion
of Councilman Banta of the council,
signs pointing "To the depot" will be
placed at the corner of Mechanic and
North Main, Sherman and Boule
vard, Fourth and East Main.
Militiamen Join
Regular Service
The Ashland Coast Artillery Corps
lost six of their members during the
recent encampment, the six being
Talent boys who joined the regular
army and navy. J. M. Pool, Ray Cole
man, D. F. Crldo and O. L. Wlthrow
enlisted in the regular army and O.
P. Peterson and William Lacy joined
the navy.
Baseball Special
To Weed Sunday
The Southern Pacific will run a
baseball special from Grants Pass to
Weed Sunday on account of two base
ball games one at Hornbrook,
where Grants Pass and Hornbrook
meet, and one at Weed, where Med
ford and the lumberpacks tangle.
Tickets will be one fare for the round
trip, which means $1.10 to Horn
brook from Ashland, or $2.45 to
Weed. The grain will pass through
Ashland at 9:20 a. m. Stops will be
made at all points and tickets bought
to any point en route for the day.
Dance From Monday
Until October
Beginning with next Monday, a
three-piece orchestra will be installed
at the Bungalow and dancing will be
come a feature every night in the
week except Sunday until October.
The Bungalow offers the coolest
place in the valley to dance, a fine
floor and great music. A charge of
50 cents for the evening, or 10 cents
a dance for couples who "just drop
In," will be made. Everybody Is wel
come and all are extended a cordial
Invitation.
See the fine nw woolens and
styles for fall at Orres' Tailor Shop.
Sees Dlted Road
Judge George X. Davis of Port-
Bennett, wno was the engineer In
cnarge or. tne worn and is now work -
ing on the government highway in i brought up through the valley In au
Crater Lake park. tomobiles and taken up over Scenio
J. W. Sweeney and his attorney-ln-1 Drive, around through the canyon
chief were also down this week and and around Glenview Drive, then on
went over the highway. Mr. Sweeney j to the summit of the Siskiyous. Re
states that "he believes he has them turning, they will be taken to Lithia
going," and the attorneys for Jack-! Park and a picnic luncheon tendered
son county are confldont that the 'them. Coffee will be served by
county will win out. The suit has charming Ashland girls and every ef
cost thousands of dollars to date, but fort made to show the editors a great
if won will stand off the payment of time.
the Immense sura asked by Sweeney
rfor claimed
extras."
1
j m i
1 tjPeCldl WafQCn
For Rogue Mouth
Declaring that he had received
many complaints to the effect that
the law governing fishing at the
: mouth of the Rogue river was being
violated, Governor Wlthycombe Sat-
urday afternoon dispatched a special
agent from Salem to aid the fish
wardens. Should the law violations
continue, "more rigorous measures
will be employed" to compel an ob
servance of the law, said the gov
ernor.
It is claimed that the salmon fish
eries at the mouth of the river evade
the law and take steelhead and all,
thus preventing the fish from coming
up the river.
Auto Blue Book Men
Visit Ashland
E. K. Frank and C. X. Emery.'drlv
ing the official car of the A. A. Auto
mobile Blue Book, were in Ashland
last evening. They" state that Ash
land's hotel will receive a new rating
after they had looked it over. Mr.
Frank said: "For years Ashland has
been pretty well unmentioned, but we
. ' '
ugal auuui yvu an up auu uuwu wit;
coast this year, and I must say you
have a city to be proud of. The Sis
kiyou grade was most highly praised,
but the Blue Book men stated they
would have to have assurances from
the county court or the road super
visor that the road between Ashland
and the foot of the mountains would
be smoothed out a little before next
April when their book appears or
else they would have to call it "poor
dirt road." The visitors were greatly
Interested in the parks and auto
camp. They were shown over the
hotel by Manager Chisholm. Their
trip will take them over th roads
of California, Oregon, Washington,
Utah, Nevada, Arizona and in fact the
entire west before next spring, when
the book will be published. Mr.
Frank states: "We are revising the
road data and will certainly have a
lot of revising for the better to do
regarding the roads In this vicinity
and the accommodations at Ashland.
Next spring's edition of the Blue
Book will be the eighth
Charge Current to
Park Board Fund
Although conceding that the lights
In Llthla Park must be kept burning,
the council ran up against a knotty
problem in the question of where the
money was coming from to pay for j exceptionally heavy Bnow of last
the current, Tuesday night. The elec-1 winter It was impossible to get to the
trlcal department naturally does not rim of the lake until recently. The
wlBh to donate the current and bear I season will be short there this year."
this expense. Finally, although both j Most of the time he was away Mr.
the general fund and the park fund Scott was In company with E. O. Mc
are depleted, it was moved that ttte Cormick, vice-presldejit in charge of
lighting of the parks and any future , traffic of the Southern Pacific. They
installations be charged to the park visited the scenic and tourist attrac
board fund with the understanding, tlons of southern Oregon, Including
of cousse, that the bills need not be the caves of Josephine county and
paid until funds become available,
which will be when a way of swell
ing the fund for care ot the parks is
found.
Hog, raisers of southern Oregon
will attend a picnic at Wionna ranch,
near Grants Pass, Saturday, August
5. Picnic lunch will be held at noon
and the afternoon taken up with a
pig show, Judgment and talks on
various phases of the Industry. All
Jackson county hog raisers are in
vited.
I
State Editors Will
Lunch in Park
Members of the State Editorial As-
j are arriving in Medford today. To-
: morrow afternoon they will bo
Music will be provided by the Oak
land Boys' Club band, who will play
a concert In Lithia Park bandstand
during the evening.
The committee in charge of the ar
rangements for the luncheon is com
posed of Ashland's two ex-edltors.
I Hon. Fred Wagner and Postmaster
j E. J. Kaiser, and Messrs. Frank Jor
j dan and H. O. Frohbach. On behalf
of the committee, C. B. Wolf peti
tioned the council Tuesday night to
contribute $50 to the fund for enter
taining the editors, and this amount
was voted.
On Sunday the editors will be tak
en to Crater Lake as the guests of
the county court and Medford. The
Medford folks are getting behind the
entertainment of the scribes In a
wholehearted manner. The hotel
men are donating accommodations
for the visitors and citizens are do
nating cars for the various trips. The
southern Oregon entertainment of
the editors' convention promises to
be' a memorable one. A big banquet
at Hotel Medford Saturday night will
be open to anyone who wishes to at
tend. Tickets may be purchased
from H. O. Frohbach.
Tells Portland Our
Parks To Be Famous
Portland Telegram: "Business
men of southern Oregon are begln-
., ., , . . ,. , ,. . , .
ning to feel that the people of Port
land care very little for the welfare
of that part of the state, and it is not
surprising that they are forming;
stronger commercial ties with Sau
Francisco, where every advantage Is
taken to cultivate the favor of resi
dents of the southern counties," said
John M. Scott, general passenger
agent of the Southern Pacific, on his:
return from a three weeks' trip up
the line. He had special reterenoe
to the small attendance from Port
land at the three days' celebration at
Ashland early in the month to mark
the formal opening of that city's
Lithia Park and during which Ash
land entertained a total of 60,000
people.
"The city of Ashland has devel
oped a park that will become world
famous. The waters from the springs
are declared by authorities to ba
equal In curative properties to any In
Europe. Scenic and climatic attrac
tions there and elsewhere in south
ern Oregon will surely win the at
tention of tourists from all parts of
the country, and the results will bo
helpful in a business way.
"Many tourists from California are
doing southern Oregon by automobtle
and besides large numbers are begin
ning to arrive from as far as the At
lantic coast. One New York womux
was accompanied by her physician, a
nurse and a chauffeur.
"Crater Lake is, of course, an at
traction to many, bu because ot the
the charms of the Klamath Lakes. In
all the trip covered about 1,500 miles.
One of the objects of the trip was to
see what could be done to further in
terest the federal government toward
providing for the greater enjoyment
by the people of the country's large
parks.
There are none better made for
the money than the Oregon-made
suspenders. Either invisible or reg
ulars are 50 cents a pair. Mitchell
& Whittle. ' It
