Uourn.t CiflE M
4. 4. .j. .j. 4. .. 4. J& fl Tk u k. . ilM
4. MAKE YOUR BUSINESS 'ir Iav '".V TInI If WM
I li-if!;! WK Jtoflmi wtpnbhttm. imi i
H w Hfl
EIGHT PAGES LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH THURSDAY AUGUST 3 1910 ' " MM
I MARGUERITE
I CLARK AT LYRIC
IFRI. AND SAT.
Whllo preparing for her marriage
to a mucH"1 disliked man about town,
Fellcltetflnda an old yellow diary In
the dofcrts of her favorlto table, a
relic 'of the Napoleonic period. To
her great Joy an avenue of escape
from her distressing predicament Is
enfolded to her through the medium
of the aged manuscripts. This
strango coincidence occurs In the ex
quisite Famous Players production,
Silks and Satins, on the Paramount
Program,
Marguerite Clark, who has scored
bucIi a marvelous success In Molly
Make Believe and her other numer
ous photoplay triumphs. Is seen In
nn entirely new light the role of a
modern American girl, and that of
her own nnccstress of tho Napoleonic
era. Under tho exceedingly careful
direction of J. Searlo Dawley, the
monotony of tho so called costumo
play has been eliminated, making this
one of tho most delightfully thrilling
romances ever screened.
Tho story opens on the. day previ
ous to Fellclto Cameron's marriage
I to Felix Hreton, a conceited dandy 1
The young man Is tho choice of her
father, hut rot of her liking, for her
lovo lies In tho heart of Jack Des
mond. Jack enters her room to bid
licr good bye, as ho Is going to leave
town on tho following day forever.
Ho suggests to her that If by chance
sho changes her mind he will meet
her nt the early morning train. Fell
cite, heart broken, permits her lover
to depart without her.
Her father observes tho traditions
of his ancestors by having a table,
an old family heirloom, carried down
to tho room below vhero the wedding
presents are to bo placed upon It.
The -bridesmaids ,uudertaka . tho, re
moval of the table, but accidentally
J let It fall In n ruined heap at the foot
' of tho stairway,
fl Fellclto, 'considerably upset over
jf tho destruction of the relic, kneels
clown beside it. Sho examines tho
debris and suddenly she perceives a
drawer which had remained hidden
for over a century. Two packages
and a diary aro Its only contents. Fe
llclto quickly picks them up and runs
to her boudoir to explore the secrets
of her long departed relatives.
The second part of tho story deals
with tho romantic rovelatlons of tho
diary, which was wrftten by ono of
Fellclte's progenitors when sho found
herself In much tho same predica
ment which our llttlo herolno Is fac
ing. It Is a thrilling story of sword
play and swaggering bullies with the
doughty hero coming to tho rescue
of the fair maiden and in it little
Felicito finds the key to her own hap
piness. Miss Clark who plays Felicito m
toth parts of the Btory Is surround
ed by a strong cast, Including Thom
as Holding, Clarence Handysldcs.
Vernon Steel, W. A. Williams and
Fayotto Perry.
Silks and Satins will be tho at
traction at tho Lyric Friday and Sat
urday, August 4 and 5.
CLARK TO TAKE SEAT
WHEN COURT RECONVENES
Washington, Aug. 1 John H. Clark
of Cleveland, Ohio, today took the
oath as associate justice of the sup
remo court of tho United States in
tho presence of Chief Justice White
and officers of the court. The now
Justice formally will tako tils seat
when tho court reconvenes In October.
YELLOWSTONE PARK
EXCURSIONS
Tflj August 1 ,2via Hotol Routo; Aug-
r ust 14, via "Wyllo Way." See 0. S.
L. agents for details and folders,
Adv. 8-12
PITY THE CONGREGATION
An old Scotch minister told lib as
sistant thot ho folt more fatigued
hearing him than In preaching Urn
"elf. Tho assistant ropllod that ho
experienced a Bimllar fflollng when
19 his senior was In tho pulpit,
ll "Then," rejoined the mlnlstrr, "I
N Pety tho folk that have to hear us
I baith I Youth's Companion.
MOOSE LEADER
BAGKJN FOLD
Flavlu J. Hendershot Announces the
Return to the Republican
Party
Ogden, Aug. 1. After four years
as an active leader of the Weber
county and state Progressive., Flnvl
us J, Hendershot announced today
that bo had returned to the G. O P.
fold, wherein he was onco a war
horse." Mr. Hendershot declares ho
Is convinced now that the best way
to obtain progressive legislation Is
through the Republican party and he
assured local Republicans today that
ho would get back In the harness and
support Republican candidates to tho
best of his ability.
When tho Progressive party was or
ganized In 1912 Mr. Hendershot was
one of tho leaders and he worked
right and day in his efforts to bring
victory to the county Progressive tick
ct. For this work he was rewarded
two years ago by being selected as
chairman of tho Progressiva Weber
county central committee.
Despite the defeat given tho fusion
Isti ho retained his enthusiasm for
the Progressive party cnuse and espe
cially for Theodore Roosevelt and was
a dclegnto to the Progressive national
convention at Chicago In Juno, where
ho fought a hard fight for the colonel
When Roosevelt declined the nomi
nation and advised Progressives to
enlist In the Hughes camp, Mr. Hen
dershot says he was Inclined to be op.
posed to sueh proceedings, but after
thinking tho matter over he decldpQ
that the best place Tor those with pro
gresslve Ideas Is In the Republican
party.
In addition, to getting Into tho Re
publican party again. Mr. Hendershot
says ho will use his Influence In get
ting his former fellow Progressives to
step in line nlso. There is every rca
son to believe, he nsfejts, that tho ma
Jorlty of those who formerly espousca
tho Hull Moose causo will be back
with tho Republican pnrty before tho
campaign proceeds much farther.
Trend of Business Is
Toward Conservatism
Domestic Demand Gradually Taking
the Place of Foreign
Orders
Washington, Aug, 1. The monthly
summary of business In tho United
States prepared by the federal reservo
board from reports of agents of tho
twelve federal reservo districts shows
domestic demand gradually taking the
placo of foreign orders.
"The present 'trend of business Is
more along tho lino of conservatism
which bankers and business men have
been urging," tho summary stated.
"It tends to a moro permanent pros
perity. The pressure to plnco now
orders and to stock up heavily which
was so prqvalcnt a month or two ago
Is disappearing.
"Tho general business outlook Is
Datlsfactory. Crops nro better than
averago In most districts and tho
labor situation is (satisfactory every
where excopt Now York, where the
garment workers are on strtko, and
San Francisco, whero strikes continue
on tho wator front."
Tho San Francisco report says:
"Moderate expansion of business
continues."
Tho flnni.clal, commercial and in
dustrial outlook Is described as fav
orable and ship building is active be
yond parallel though thero continues
n shortngo of ships. Although the
production of certain deciduous fruits
will bo below normal, tho report says
tho growers will average unusual re
turns becauso of high prices.
Stnto Senator D. O. Rldeout candi
date for governor on tho Republican
ticket Is In tho valley In tho Interost
of his candidacy. Tho senator has
visited all of tho counties of tho
slate with tho exception of Rich Co.,
and ha0 found tho sentiment nlmost
unanimously In favor of porhlbltlon
a man for governor who has a clean
record and who's position on tho pro
hibition question Is positively known.
Sonutor Rldeout Is highly pleased with
Ms chances heforo Repul'lcau Con
vcutlon on tho 8th Inst.
JUDGE GEO. G. ARMSTRONG
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiKrr ' iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin
H1111111111111111111111111111111111111S&2'', HHii11111111111111111111hI
aiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifirlK ClilllllllllllllllllllllBi
htiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH iLLLLIIIIIl
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiflHfliiiiiEiih ' iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifl
liiiiHHiRfliHiH
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE
FOR U. S. SENATOR
The above cut Is of Judge George
G. Armstrong of Salt Lake City, can
dldate on the Republican ticket for
United States Senator. Judgo Arm
strong Is ono of tho most ablo and
popular Jurists In the State of Utah,
and In his characteristic, modest way
gives the following. facts as his qual
ifications: Born at Boscobel, Wisconsin, July
lC.lSOS; graduated at tho University
of Wisconsin with degree of 11. L. In
1891 and L. L. B. In 1S93. Ho carao
to Utah, August 30, 1893, was admit
ted tho same day to practice beforo
:ho Supreme court; practiced with
Jonea & Schroeder and E. 11. Crltch
low; was later a partner In tho legal
nrmf Nye & Armstrong; was dep
uty county clerk In tliu court depart
mentfttom 1901 -to 1905; was elected
illfclrlct judge on January, 190." and
has continued In office up to tho
present tlmo. He declined to Co a
candidate for renoniluatlon, and up
on solicitation of many friends enter
ed the contest for United States Sen
ator. Should the honor be bestowed
upon him he will make an nble senator.
REPUBLICAN ' CONVENTION
Delegates to tho Republican State
and Congressional conventions were
elected throughout Cache county on
Tuesday evening, and a great deal
of Interest was manifest In every
precinct of the county, tho people
generally" believe that the Republic
an s tlcketrwlll bo elected. They do
sired to place themselves on record
concerning matters In which they nre
Interested, moro especially the pro
hibition question". Cache county is
regarded as the banner prohlbltliy
county In Utah, tho system providing
for city and county option having
worked to a high dogreo of satisfac
tion. The following resolution pass
ed by tho Logan City Primary, Is
Indicative of tho spirit and sent!
n ent of the people throughout tho
country.
"Whereas there Is a strong senti
ment In the state of Utah in favor of
state wide prohibition, and
Whereas, this primary is fully con
vinced thnt itr la'fo tho best moral
and financial interost of the state to
prohibit tho manufacture and salo or
alcoholic llquorg within Us boun
'darlesr Therefore bo It resolved that we
pledge tho delegates elected by this
rrlmary to tho Hopubllcan conven-
(Continued on Pag Eight)
DON'T BE DECEIVED BY PROMISES
OF THE SHREWD SOLICITOR
The Logan Repubircun Is vitally In
terested In the welfare of tho busi
ness houses and all residents of Lo
gan and wo feel that our Interest Is
shared by all tho Inhabitants of this
fair city of ours. Now there is ono
way that all may Bhow tholr inter
est and loyalty and that Is by pat
ronizing tho home merchant.
Tho Republican is publishing ev
ery week a aeries of cuts and editor
ials Illustrating tho value o; buying
at homo. We respectfully call tho at
tention of our readers to thoso outs
and editorials. Tho moral In each Is
so plain that no ono can fall to read
the lesson thero depicted.
In this connection our attention was
called yesterday to the fact that thero
wore solicitors In town talking or
ders for Vlctrolas, graphaphoncs, or
other talking machlnos for a Donver
concern niul this t "itor boasted of
mo sales ho had made In the city.
Of course, his selling talk Is one of
promising to Bavo you money on your
purchases, but do you know he canV
Havo you called on our local deal
ers to get tlielr prices? If not, why
not do so beforo sending your mon
ey to Denver? Tho money sent thoro
does not help oducato your children
pay tho taxes, or pay for Improve
ments In Logan. Our local dealers
havo assured us that they can sell
lust aa cheaply as can tho Denver
music houso You at least ought to
satisfy yoitrsolf by inquiry, before be
ing buncoed by the out of town solic
itor. To buy at homo Is to buy a
guaranteed article with tho homo
merchant hero to make gool all prom
ises. Tho mall order man Is hero to
day and gone tomorrow and smiles
at the golden promise ho made you.
Folks, close your doors to tho out
of town solicitor. Do not bo deceiv
ed. Why buy blindfolded That Is
what you do when you patronlzo the
out of town merchant. At least get
the prices of tho local dealers first
That It Is the senslblo and lojnl way.
all will agree.
GARRISON AT
FORT INCREASED
General Trevlno'i Chief of Staff Gets
Line on National
Guardsmen
HI Paso, Aug. I. General Kr.incht
co Gonzales, commanding C'nrrnnta
troops in northern Chihuahua, today
nsked General Jacinto Trevln.j In Chi
huahua City for orders n8 tu the riis
position of three bandltn caPMrcd near
San Ygnaclo, Chihuahua, Paturday, be
longing to the band which yesterday
engaged a Joint command of United
States cavalrymen and Curranzn
troops on American soil about tlvo
ni'les below Fort Hancock, Texas.
General Gonzales Intlmntnl tlmt ho
evpects tho outlaws will be taken to
Chihuahua for execution.
The two bandits ulu escaped
across the Mexican border after tho'
clash are still being pursued In the
desert by a detnehment under Cap
tain Marcelo Marullo, according to
reports tonight, .but General Gonza
les said he expected to hear of their
capture shortly.
Col. Valdes Leal, chief of start to
General Tievino, recently visited
each of the camps of tho 2,",00fl nai
tlonal guardsmen on station here, ac
ccrdlng to unollicial reports received
today nt military headquarters. Whllo
thero was no confirmation of tho re
port It was learned that a man an
swering Lenl's description, clad In
civilian clothing was driven through
the various camps so; oral days ago.
Utah's Uncomplaining
-Soys
Utah national guardsmen by their
conduct on the border have matched
tho zeal with which they presented
themselves for duty at tho call of tno
President. No words of complaint,
of disappointment, of self pity havo
come from Nogales since tno battery
and tho two squadrons arrived. Their
attitude Is In gratifying contrast to
the performances of guardsmen or
eastern states who must havo suppos
ed thoy were Invited to a picnic and
are embittered by the absenco at
fried chicken nnd tco cream.
Good cheer, and that indefinable
something tho European war corres
pondents describe as morale, pervades
the letters tho Utah boys wrlto to
the homo folks. They may not bo
thoroughly content with an trksomo
routlno that appears to most as un
necessary but there is no hint of it
in their budgets of dally doings. They
may miss tho home culslno, and tho
familiar surroundings, and tho Intlm;
ato things that mako llfo pleasant, and
the Interrupted career, but none woula
guess It from what they wrlto. They
aro good sports, thoso Utah boys and
tho stnto should bo proud of them.
Something moro than tho tradition
al Utah optimism must he held as ac
counting for tho dlffcrenco In tho tone
of letters received from Utah guards
men nnd thoso tho soldier boys of
eastern states aro writing homo as
roportcil In the nowspapors, A stiff
upper Up does not explain everything.
There Is moro to the situation than
that. Tho real reason may bo that
tho Utah contingent held no Illusions
about llfo on tho border, and bullded
no hopes of n leisurely vacation en
livened by dork eyed senorltas and
Jealous vaqueros. They know what to
expect and they went Into, It with
eyes open nnd unafraid,
Utah Is rich In mineral and agricul
tural wealth, with a vast storo of re
sources undovoloped and wonderful
possibilities as yet all untouched. This
magnltlcent Inland cmplro possessos
much and produces much but her
greatest resources and her greatest
products aro Utah womanhood and
Utoh manhood, tho Utah wifo and mo
ther who sends husband and son to
answer tholr country's call, nnd tho
Utah man who cheerfully nnd uncom
plainingly does his duty under cir
cumstances which would Justify the
complaint lie Is too patriotic to voice.
Herald Republican.
Frank O. Itoynolds, M. D. special
ist oyo, ear, noso and throat, Olllce
hours during tho month of August:
1 n. m to 1 p. m. end by appoint
ment. Adv. 8-5
THE TRI-STATE
CONFERENCE OF 11
EXTENSIONISTS
Prof. John T. Cnlno III, Director of mm
Extension Work at the Utah Agrlcul- HM
tural College, has Just returned from wl
a meeting of tho Trl-Stato Conferenco SH
for Extension Workers, at Fort Col- sH
Una, Colorado, whero ho went to dls- ',1
cuss tho relation of tho Extension !
Service to tho live stock Industry and l 1
assist In cattlo Judging beforo tho i
convention. m
It is significant that, although Utah jfl
Is not a member of tlie Trl-Stato Con- JM
ference, the Stntes of Colorado, New Hi
Moxlco nnd Wyoming comprising tho ' nil
membership, still this Stnto was call- ''"JIB
cd upon .to furnish part of tho pro- ?ll
gram. '"
The Conference, which Is nn annual I
affair, Is held to help standardize old !&
methods In Extension Work and In- IhI
troduco now ones, Utah has been in- !I
Hod to Join flic Conference, which ''"SB
convenes again nt Fort Collins next jmM
cnr. Inasmuch ns tho problems of 'vflB
Utah nro very similar to the problems j
of the three States now forming tho vlfl
Conference, It Is likely that Utah wilt lMm
Joll- ',J1
Although Utnh was not a member 11
of tho last conference, it was welt S I
represented on the program. Asldo iPJ
from the nddrcss of Prof. J. T. Culno I J
III, flvo graduates of tho Utah Agrt- -1
cultural College participated. They '"if'l
w'ero A. E. Bowman, Director of tho S
Extension Work In Wyoming; A. C. fiSH
Cooley, Director of tho Extension MSI
Work In New Mexico; I. L. Hobion, EflT'l
Stnto Leader for Boys' and Girls Clubs V1
In Wyoming; S. E. Burton, Dairy Spe- IBI
cmllst for Wyoming; M. R. Gonzales,
County Agent In Now Mexico and R. 'SI
C. Allred', bounty Agent In Colorado. 1Jl
In addition Vera L Martlneau, also K'fl
a graduate of the Utah Agricultural &J
Collego who Is a county ugent In New V&fl
Mexico. Wl
m xj2M
SERVICES HELD i
FOR A. A. ALLEN
IN THIRD WARD 1
Funeral services over tho remains ;3m1
of Alexander A. Allen wero held In mwm
the Third ward meeting houso yester- Hi
da afternoon. The attendance was HBRl
ono of the largest recorded at a fu- wl
ncral In that ward in a long time. kMl
All the speakers wore llfo long ns- k!
soclates of the deceased and spoke um
highly of his life's work, and of tha fH
high estocm In which he has been JH
held by bis acquaintances. The speak- BVJ
era were George T. Benson of Whit- JH
ney, Idaho; Mathew Field of Rock- JIH
land, Idaho; Joseph E. Cordon, and fflH
Prest. Serge F. Bulllf. flH
Solos wero rendered by Frank HHJ
Baugh, Miss Florence Tarbett and IH
Mrs. Guy Poulsen of Preston, Idaho. flH
The floral tributes were many and HH
beautiful. All the relatives of de- flB
ceased wero In attendance. HHJ
Tho pallbearers consisted of tho pH
sons-in-law or Mr. Allen. Intonnent JflH
wna in tho city cemetery, tho gravo M
being dodlcated by John E. Carllslo. fH
CORRECTION.
Aug. H
Republican: In regard to being mt- mW
nus a trip up Logan canyon as atat- V
ed in tho Lowlston column last Issue B
of this paper, I wish to make a little H(
correction; )H
Bornhlsol of Lowlston nnd myself, m
spent a few days at Ideal Beach, Bear H
Lako .taking an ontiro trip around the HL
lako nnd stopping a short tlmo at IB
Soda Springs. And on our way down Wn
tho canyon had some trouble which HI
brought us In direct coutuct wltb iffl
Henry Ford; but any time "Jltnej- lihfl
troubles" subtract a trip from us arttu- fl
metlc is worked from principals wa fl
do not understand,
HERBERT ANDERSONV Wm
Mr. A. B. Ames and family are Wim
back from a wcoka outing on Bear Hiflfl
Lako, Shortly after tholr arrival 'Warn
homo Monday evening their little boy WmM
Reed, had tho mlafortuno to break,. lal
his log whllo roller skating. Dr, J? liVd
W. Hayward set tho broken member 19
nnd tho boy la doing as well aa can j
bo expected. nLH
iftaiiii
