I Today's Metal Prices- TfviV vXW QLi WAX 4 P- M- OTY EDITION " I
I NEW YORK QUOTATIONS, I I I I A f I 1 111 II jjl I 1111 Xl 1 II V
per, 525.0027.00. P ' tj WJ 7 V C,oudv; Not Much jH
H ' w Change in Temperature.
' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. , ' 1 '
I Fortysuth Ycar-N.. 185. TTl ; OGDEN CITY, UTAH. THURSDAY EVENING, AUGUST 3. 1916. Enter.- . seen- c,,.. ... -...
Trench Drive Back the Germans At Verdun I
i Heavy Bombardment on Austro-Etalian Front I
i FRENCH TAKE OFFENSIVE ON A
THREE-MILE SECTOR AT VERDUN
Several German Trenches and Organized Positions Captured
East of Meuse and Held Against Series of Counter
attacks French Make'Progress in the Fleury Sector
and Capture 1,100 Germans French Pene
5 trate Enemy Lines on Monacu Farm and
Take German Section in Somme Re
gion Reported by Berlin,
Rome, Aug. 3, via London, 4:40 p. m. "In the Adige
'J valley" the official announcement today says, "a bombard-
ment by enemy artillery and aircraft is continuing. An en-
j emy aeroplane dropped bombs on the town of Ala but they
I did no damage." ,
t
i
The operations along the Somme on
the western front are momentarily
transcended in interest by the situa-
tlon at Verdun.
: Yesterday the French, taking the
; offensive, made an attack along a
three-mile front east of the Meuse,
, capturing several German trenches
and organized points of support. Paris
;' today reports this ground held against
i a series of German counter attacks
delivered last night. Progress by the
French in the Fleury sector, north--,
east of the fortress, also is an
; nounced, with ' the capture of 1,100
i Germans In the fighting on the east
bank of the river since August 1.
1 In the Somme region the Germans
J have made renewed attempts to re-
iA gain the positions they were forced
to give up to the French in the Mon-
, acu farm sector, near the river on
j Tuesday night. These failed, Paris de
clared, and the new French positions
j between Monacu farm and Hem wood
were organized by their captor.. Slmi-
j larly a German attack south of the
J Somme near Estres was futile.
German Assaults Repulsed.
Paris, Aug. 3, 12:13 p. m. North of
j the river Somme several German at
tempts last night against the French
position at Monacu farm were re
pulsed, it was officially announced by
the French war department this after
noon. The French troops organized
their new positions between Monacu
; farm and Hem wood.
(' South of the Somme a German coun
ter attack south of Estres failed.
Several violent German counter at
tacks on the trenches taken by the
; French yesterday on the right bank
of the Meuse, the statement adds,
; were everywhere stopped by the
screen of Infantry fire. In this re
gion, which is north of the fortress
of Verdun, the French made substan
tial progress to the south of Fleury.
Since the first of August the French
have captured 1,100 Germans on the
bank.
Intense Artillery Flro.
On the left bank of the Meuse an
Intense artillery duel continues, but
there has been no infantry action.
i In the Somme sector. Sergeant Chai-
nat of the French aviation corps,
; brought down two German machines,
which makes a total or eight brought
down by this aviator.
I The statement follows:
"North of the Somme we repulsed
last night several German assaults
on the Monacu farm and we organized
our new positions between this farm
and the Hem wood.
"It has been confirmed that the
j- German units eugag'ed in the region
of the Monacu "farm had to be re
lieved ns a result of the heavy losses
they have sustained since July 30.
"South of the river Somme a coun
F ter attack upon our positions located
i to the south of Estres failed under
our fire. On the right bank of the
river Meuso the GermanB delivered
( several violent counter attacks upon
the trenches which we captured yes
terday. Everywhere our curtains of
fire and the fire of our infantry
checked the efforts of our adversary
who suffered heavy losses. As for our
troops, following up their advantages
they have made notable progress to
the south of Fleury. They have
reached the immediate surrounds of
this village and have been gone be
yond the railroad station. The num
ber of prisoners made by us yesterday
in the region of Fleury alone Is in
excess of 7. This raises to 1,100
the total number of able bodied pris
oners who have fallen into our hands
since the first of August on the right
bank of the Meuse.
- Intense-Artillery Fire.
"In the region of Vaux-le-Chapitra
and Chenois there has "been co'iilTnuea
Intense artillery .fighting, but with
out infantry participation. The night
passed quietly on the remainder of
the front except in the forest of Apre
mont where we dispersed with rifle
fire certain German patrols.
"One the front aVmg the Somme
front Sergeant Chainat yesterday had
two aerial encounters with German
machines and in each case vanquished
his adversary. These two victories
make a total of eight German ma
chines which have ben brought down
by this aviator. Another German
aeroplane, attacked at close quarters
by one of our machines, fell to the
ground and was wrecked near
Chauny."
British Guns Busy.
London. Aug. 3.-2:41 p. m. 'Dur
ing the night we continued the work
of consolidating the ground which we
had gained and in opening up com
munication trenches," says the British
official statement issued today. "Our
guns were active and the enemy's ar
tillery retaliated briskly during the
evening along our fron from Maltz
farm to Longueval, also on the woods
of Mametz, Frlcourt and Becourt and
the village of Pozleres."
His fire slackened off at dawn. The
enemy exploded a small mine near
Souchez. It oaused no casualties and
did little damage.
French Penetrate German Lines.
Berlin, Aug. 3, via London, 5 p. m.
French troops have penetrated Ger
man lines on Monacu farm in the re
gion of the river Somme, and have
taken a trench section to the north
of that position, says the official
statement given out today by the Ger
man army headquarters.
In the region north of the fortress
of Verdun, the announcement says,
the French have recaptured a trench
section which they had lost in the
Laufeo wood.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
(Verdun front) the enemy brought
forward to the attack strong forces
against Cote du Poivre and on the
wide front between the Thiaumont
work and north of the Laufee work.
Ho obtained a foothold on the west
ern part of Cote du Poivre and south
west of Fleury In parts of our first
i SO THE PEOPLE MAY KNOW
That at this time the most prosperous period that Og
den has ever enjoyed there are people in this community in
want and distress. Not people who have received that position
, through shiftlessness, carlessness or extravagance; but people
v of 'our best blood people of the heroic class who have let
': fathers, sons and husbands their means of support go to
" the front to protect their country
! Now it's up to the people of Ogden to take care of these
dependents until such time as government relief is offered
What are we going to do about it?
National Guard Benefit Fund Ogden Standard, $50.00
v a month for 12 months; Dr. Kanzler, $2.00 a month for 12
V months; Methodist Sunday School, $5.0Q; Oracle Theatre,
$5.00 a month for 6 months ; A. W. Meek, $1.00; C. B. Sears,
$5.00; O. A. Parmley, $5.00; Dr. E. P. Mills, professional
; service,. $5.00. .
;
VERDUN ONE YEAR BEFORE THE GREAT WAR AND TODAY
bove;-July, 1913: by the Meuse at Verdun, -with the bridge and the chausscc tower to the right. Below, July
1916: in one of the bombarded districts of the lower town alongside the river.
line trenches and recaptured a trench
section in Laufee forest which he
lost on Tuesday.
"At the Thiaumont work, southeast
of Fleury, the enemy was completely
repulsed and in the mountain forests
he was repulsed with neavy losses
after having temporarily broken into
our lines.
Austrlans Shell Italian Seaport.
Rome, Aug. 3, via Paris, 11:13 a. m.
An official statement issued today
says that two Austrian destroyers
shelled Bisceglie, an Italian seaport
on the Adriatic near Bari. The state
ment follows:
"Two enemy destroyers shelled
Bisceglie, a district which possesses
no defense. Six persons were wound
ed, two of them women, seriously.
The material damage was slight.
"Nineteen Italian aeroplanes bom
barded Durazzo this morning with
great effect A large number of
bombs fell on wharves, buildings and
the aerodrome. All the machines' re
turned except on which broke down
and had to land in enemy territory."
Greeks Demand Demobilization.
Genoa, Aug. 3, via Paris, 3:15 p. m.
A Zurich dispatch says that a num
ber of young men paraded the streets
of that city on Tuesday night bearing
banners inscribed:
"We demand complete demobiliza
tion." The police were obliged to charge
the crowd with drawn swords before
it would disperse. Several persons
were wounded.
Serbs Convoke Parliament."
Corfu, Island of Corfu, Aug. 1, via
London, Aug. 3, 12:10 p. m. The Ser
bian government has decided to con
voke the Serbian parliament King
Peter of Serbia and the Greek gov
ernment have been advised of this In
tention. nn
pamSf!
Five Hundred de Factos South
of Big Bend District in
Texas.
El Paso, Texas, Aug. 3. Five hun
dred government troops under General
Murgia have arrived from tho south
and are patrolling tho frontier be
tween the Chihuahua Coahuila bor
der and south of tho Big Bend district
of Texas, General Francisco Gonzales
anounced In Juarez today, These
troops have established a camp about
30 miles south of Boquilas, Texas, and
their presence probably gave rise to re
cent reports that large bodies of baud
Its were in the section.
Investigation having failed to sub
stantiate reports that bandits crossed
tho Rio Grande near Fort Hancock,
I Texas, yesterday, tho troops sent from
here were ordered to return today.
Action of Bull Moose Commit
tee in Endorsing Hughes
Repudiated by Party.
MAY NAME CANDIDATE
Leaders Divided in Opinion
But Desire Organization to
Be Kept Alive.
Indianapolis, Ind., Aug. 3. When
representatives of the Progressive
party who disapprove the action of
the national committee in endorsing
Charles E, Hughes for president met
here at noon today to consider the ad
visability of calling another conven
tion to nominate a candidate for
president, sentiment of tho leaders
was divided in regard to what action
should be taken.
A majority of those present fa
vored putting a third ticket in the
field, but several influential leaders
doubted the wisdom of the action.
Every representative agreed, how
ever, that it would be deslrablo to
take some action which would per
petuate tho Progressive party as a na
tional party organization.
The conference was called to order
by Edwin E. Leo of Indianapolis,
Progressive state chairman for Indi
ana. Matthew Halo of Massachusetts,
acting chairman of the Progressive
national comnfittee, was chosen to
preside at the conference and J. A. H.
Hopkins of New Jersey, was elected
secretary.
Chairman Hale was applauded when
ho said: "We have come here with
two ideas. Wo wish to show that
we do not approve the action of tho
reactionary wing of the national com
mittee in Chicago July 26, in endors
ing Hughes for president, and to take
some action to perpetuate the Pro
gressive party."
Majority Displeased.
Reports of the situation in the Pro
gressive ranks Indicated that In every
state represented, a majority of the
Progressives disapproved of tho ac-
tlon of the national committee In en
dorsing Hughes and favored putting
a national ticket in the field if prac
ticable. In Michigan and several
other states national committeemen
who voted for Hughes' endorsement
have been deposed and other com
mitteemen chosen, according to re
ports submitted to the conference.
A telegram was read from C E.
Fisher, of Colorado, stating that he
favored maintaining the national
party organization, and that a full
state ticket would bo put in the
field.
Indinnapolis, Ind., Aug. 3. Repre
sentatives of the Progressive party
from a score of states met hero today
to formally protest against the action
of the Bull Moose national committee J
in endorsing Charles E. Hughes (or
president In Chicago July 26 and o
consider the advisability of calling
another convention to fill the vacancy
in its national ticket caused by the
declination of Theodore Roosevelt to
accept the nomination for president.
The conference was called by John
M. Parker of Louisiana, nominee of
the Progressive party for vice presi
dent. The representatives of one element
of the' party led by judge Albert D.
Nortoni of St Louis were outspoken
for the assembling of the Progressive
national convention at an early date
to nominate a candidate for president
to run with John M. Parker of Louisi
ana, nominee for vice president. An
other faction regarded this plan as
l impractical and was prepared to urge
Issuance of a call for a new conven
tion to complete the national ticket.
Influential Bull Moose leaders from
several states expressed themselves
as opposed to both these plans on the
ground that they had no available
candidate for president and that there
was Insufficient time to organize for
a national campaign.
Committee Evcecd Authority.
All present, however, were unani
mous in expressing their opinion that
tho committee had exceeded Its au
thority and violated the party's prin
ciples In indorsing the candidates of
another party for president
It is expected before the party ad
journs resolutions will bo adopted
resolutions will be adopted criticising
the national, committee for endorsing
Hughes.
If an attempt should bo made to
have the party endorse the candidacy
of President Wilson for re-election
there is oxery indication that it will
be downed nnd members declare that
such a course would be inconsistent
after the support accorded Hughes by
a majority of the national committee.
Lack Available Candidates.
Lack of available candidates for
president appears to be one of tho
most potent, arguments of the con
vention against calling another con
vention. Judge I. B. Norton! of St Louis
said: ,
"We want a national ticket. Wo
don't want one who is nom
inated for president just so wo have
somebody to vote for in November.
The party has the right to reassemble
the national convention and complete
the ticket and that Is what should be
done."
Would Keep Party Alive.
John M. Parker of Louisiana said:
"My only desiro Is to seo the Pro
gressive party left alive as a national
organization. My object in calling
this cvonferenco was to have a frank,
open discussion of recent events in
tho sincere hope that some plan may
bo devised by which the Progressive
party will be perpetuated for the pub
lic good. I realize It will bo difficult
If not praotically Impossible to name
a candidate for president at this late
date ,but I want to see if something
cannot be done."
Miss Sarah E. Lyons of Minneapolis
who represents Minnesota at the con
ference, is favorable to putting a na
tional ticket in tho field.
Among those present were:
uJ? M Paror of Louisiana; 'Bain
bndge Colby 0f New York; Matthew
wale of Massachusetts; J. A. H. Hop
Kins of Now Jersey; Judge Albert B.
Nortoni of St. Louis; Joseph P. Fon
tron of Kansas City, Pjrigress'ive can
didate for governor of Missouri; L. A.
Laughllni of Kansas City; H. H. Hall
mann, of Warrenton, Mo Progressive
candidate for congress; Henry Grif
fith of Ohio; C. F. Hoffman of Michi
gan; M. R. Denman of Ohio; J. M. Mc
Cormick of Texas; C. W. McClure of
Georgia; E. R. Gunby of Florida; Miss
Sarah E. Lyons of Minnesota; Thomas
A. Daley, Progressive candidate for
governor of Indiana and Edwin M.
Lee, state chairman of Indiana.
Representatives from several east'
ern states were late in arriving and as
a result the conference which was
set for 11 a. m. was not called to or
der until nearly noon.
Bainbrldge Colby of New York an
nounced he was opposed to the en
dorsement of President Wilson or the
candidate of any of the old parties.
(Continued on Page 3)
VILLA LEADERS
AREMPTIIRED
Several Important Surrenders
to de Facto Troops Reported
by General Trevino.
Chihuahua City, Mexico, Aug. 3.
Several Important Villlsta leaders
have been captured or have surren
dered to government troops within
the last few days, General Jacinto
Trevino announced today. Among the1
prisoners taken at Cerro Gordo and
brought here today were Gabriel Vall
divleso. a former Villa general, Gre
goria"""Casdr formerly a Villa lieutenant-colonel,
and two so-called lieu
tenants. General Hilarlo Rodriguez reported
from Lan Mancha that he had receiv
ed the surrender of Lazareo Avalos
who held a general's commission un
der Villa, together with fifty-one men
while Tereso Morales, a so-called
colonel, with 45 men also has given
himself up.
Colonel Jesus Leal, chief of staff to
General Trevino, left today for an1
inspection trip to Saltillo, Torreon
and Monterey, preliminary to the re
disposition of some of the forces of
the army of the northeast.
TlSuRST
Enormous Property Damage
Sustained by People on
Blair Creek Near Taze
well, Tennessee.
Middlesboro, Ky., Aug. 3. Between'
15 ancH25 persons were drowned and
enormous property damage was sus
tained by a cloudburst on Blair's
Creek near Tazewell, Tenn., last
night, acording to information receiv
ed here today. Telephone messages
say about 100 persons lived' along the
creek and of these only a few have
been accounted for.
Our officials and citizens of Taze
well have organized rescue partie.
Tho region is very rough and com
munication has been practically cut
off.
Blair Creek is approximately ten
miles long and it is estimated the 150
persons lived in this neighborhood,
although 100 of them are supposed to
been directly In the path of the cloud
burst and endangered by the waters
of the creek overflowing its banks.
no
CHILD LABOR BILL
NEXT ON CALENDAR
Washington, Aug. 3. The child la
bor 'bill was next on the senate calen
dar today. It was to be taken up af
ter disposal of the District of Co
lumbia appropriation bill, and will re
main tho unfinished business until
passed. Southern Democrats, under
leadership of Senators Hardwlck and
Overman, aro fighting the measure.
There is no Republican opposition.
Senator Borah will submit the Im
migration bill as an amendment, des
pite the Democratic caucus decision
to oppose such a movo solidly. This
will prolong consideration into next
week.
Tho child labor bill was included
in the Imperative legislative program
at tho urgent request of President
Wilson.
j j
Chicago Hog Market.
Chicago, Aug. 3. Liberal receipts
forced down the price of hogs today.
Cattle offerings were scarce. There
was an active demand for sheep and
lambs.
STRIKE COUNT I
IT COMPLETED I
Cannot Be Finished Before fl
Monday Western Railway
Men's Ballots Not Expect-.
ed .Until Saturday. ;
New York, Aug. 3. Seventy per
cent of the ballots cast by more than IH
400,000 railroad employes of the
United States in the vote on a general
strike has been counted by the spec- fl
ial board of tellers in this city thiB
afternoon. Timothy Shea, assistant
president of the Brotherhood of Loco- '' fl
matlve Firemen ana Enginemen, in
charge of the work declared of these
100,000, almost all favored a strike.
The count will not be completed, ;
Mr. Shea said, until Monday of next
week owing to the Tact that the west
ern ballots are not expected until
Saturday.
The ballots counted to date from
the eastern and southern districts.
The vote from those districts virtual
ly is complete.
If the strike vote is concluded by fl
.Monday night, Mr. Shea said, the
leaders of the railroad brotherhoods,
reinforced by the authority of the
strike vote, will resume negotiations
with the railroad managers on Tues-
MEXICO' SELECTS I
' MEN TO MEDIATE I
Commissioners to Negotiate
With U. S. Board on Ques
tions at Issue Are
Named.
Mexico city, Aug. 3. It was official
ly announced at the foreign office to
day that Luis Cabrera, Ygnacio Bon
illas and Alberto Pano have been se
lectcd as the commissioners to nego
tiate with the United States commis- jH
sioners regarding the questions at
issue between Mexico and the United
States. The commission will be head
ed by Senor Cabrera and Juan Rogo
will act as secretary.
Elieso Arredondo, the Mexican am
bassador at Washington, has been no
tified of the appointments. If ac
cepted at Washington the delegation
will start for the United States as
soon as possible. Senor Bonillas is
already on his way to New York. jH
Washington, Aug. 3. Announce
ment by the Carranza government, of
the appointment of commissioners ' to
negotiate with representatives of the
United States Is assumed by officials
here to mean that a favorable reply
will bo given to the American note
accepting the proposal to undertake
adjustment of issues.'between the two
countries by a joint commission, but
suggesting an extension of tho scope H
of the proposed commission's work. j
No official word on tho subject had
reached the state department late to-
Chief Justice White, Associate Jus
tice Brandeis and Frederick W. Leh
mann of St Louis, have been men
tioued as likely to bo chosen as the
American commissioners.
San Antonio, Texas, Aug. 3. Juan
Meftali Amador, sub-secretary of for
eign relations, a Mexican diplomat, jH
who was an interpreter at the coijfer
enco at El Paso between General Ob- H
regon and Generals Scott and Funs- H
ton, is dying of gangrene in Mexican
City, according to a message received H
today by Mexican Consul Beltran.
Amador's leg was broken some days 1
ngo in an accident and gangrene set H
in, his condition being such that am
putation was impossible. H
oo H
BRITISH UNARMED
VESSELS ARE SUNK
London, Aug 3, 2:50 p. m. Tho
Cocker line steamship Brittanic of 1
3-1S7 tons gross, has been sunk, it was H
announced at Lloyd's shipping agency IH
today. She was unarmed. H
The British sailing vessel Margaret IH
Sutton, 197 tons gross, also has been H
. nn M
"BABE" ADAMS RELEASED.
Pittsburg, Pa., Aug. 3. Charles i
(Babe) Adams, pitcher for the Pitts. H
burg National League Baseball club, fH
was today given his unconditional re- IIH
lease. Waivers wero-asked on him - UH
several days ago, but none of the flH
clubs in- the major leagues signed IH
him. Adams said he would go to his IH
homo in Missouri for a rest before flH
making any plans. Il
