BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, AUGUST a, 1916.
i . i x i ixi n : i i,i vi ii j. i i .x iii.
NUMBER 5.
ES ON THKth
ONTS TAKING
REATHING SPELL
Event of Importance Is At-
i- t" i i i.. i : l,,.
1 IT 1 1 1171. 2. .1.
rmans Arc Losers.
XI I inTIDMO IM DIIGOIA
HLL IIUIIUIIU 1111 IIUUUIM
Reports Repulse of Aus-
ns i zar s hn t iers i'ress
rks in the Caucasus Ger-
y j nil- .1 I
ns i nn v ijhl i mrti jir
irl nf Wonk nn Enirland.
nn. aiip ' i no nrmips in ini i in
centers of recent activity the
rcKlnti of France, Russia and Ga-
vlolent lighting In which they have
ing spell ptoparatory to further
ami milliter nttarlts. The ofllcial
inlcntlops dealing with the opcra
n the o tlioattcs Wednesday tell of
(nn;iiiL:i'N ill nu. iiuaiLiijim ,ii iiii wi
..i i.. ii. i.t...... nr
lligeicn's
Kiim in i'i-ni'i'iii mi ii iin'-t-iiiuu
rom t o .Mouse river in iioury,
or Voi'dmi, the French have cap
sever il German trenches and nr
d poins i f snpport. In the eniaro-
II' UTISS ! 1IIIIIL I 11 II JL r 1 f 1 11'IHiriM
artillery ihiels and Infantry nt-
hy sm.ill detachments, while, Her
ls of 11 s.' m attachs on the Stnk-
lu j iiini lull iionm tiiiu ill juv.il!
11 oill'il. I ijfi nil Lilt; num. I llicr 111
i nil nf wlilnli u-nfn fntmli,,,.!
r at various tinints tnelmHiiir Mntitn
Monte Slluoggn anil Castellattn,
eeii icpuiM'ii wuii iicuvy cnsiiiiuics,
lug to Rome.
Russians are keeping up their nd
ngnlnst the Turks In the Caucasus
Hermans havo carried out another
ii fin Tim r isrnrit ('rum I ir fit i.iii''-
nn tnlnl i urliifr tliA meson! wee ;.
. SKFRf S A f!APTATr
Hi llrlll-.li I'nrrcs nt SnlmilWI.
i.v n u is my. una icon m m ii
the rank of lieutenant to that of
n in ine itnvn An v aipi fni i"orn
stationed at Salonlkl with the.
tlonan forces of the British army.
-eel.' rri sled alio it the middle, of
1315, for a year's service and he.
gned now to remain In the Hrltlsh
another year. Dr. Skeols is the
Mr and Mrs E. A. Skoels of lloyt
LAND PREPAREDNESS
PARADE SEPTEMBER G
land. Aug. 2. The military com-
of the Rutland Ilusiness Men's
atlnn. of which Dr. ,T. M. Hamll-
chiiiimnn, has decided to hold
I to br postpone il on .luly I, as
t of tin Rutland carnival next
Wodnr day, Si ptenibor (!, being
inn as patriotic night. The nf
v ll I be ti rniid a Vermont State
parade and it ! expected that
town" out tde of tin- city will
pait was the Intention the
h. The piocesslon will he in nb-
dmlsslon of Vcimont Into tin
HistDrlc floats will be tho prin-
foatuic. Many .societies' will be
ented.
CONTAINING SIX
PLUNGES OVER RANK
nhiiKlmry Ainu lliully Injured
Others Xut NitIiiiinIv Hurl.
onnsnury, Aug. manes unuaico
osslbly internal Injuries when his
rough a fence and over a six foot
iltment about a mllo north of this
to-night. Mrs. Gadateo and feon
ed minor Injuries but two girls In
ar escaped unhurt. The accident
aused hy one car attempting to pass
icklng wheels.
VY SKNTPATS!
GIVEN JOY RIDER
nnd SU .MinitliM fur Hurry llnyd
nf lliadli'lmrii.
ittleboro, Aug 2. For breach of
icax-0 In driving an automobile
unuer inn innueuco oi uquor JUIy
soveroly Injuring Mrs. W. M
all and colliding with a team con-
IWII 1Y tlllltlll. II 1 1 V I1I1VI1 WI1H
nnrnlng sentenced hy Judge Frank
arber in tho municipal court to
1 ilnn of $300 and costs of prose
n nnd to servo from four to six
lis In tho llouso of Correction
ney II H. Chase, who saved sev
exceptions during the ttlal of tho
Monday, will take the enso to tho
mo court. Hall wns (Ixed at ?!,
1111 WIIH 1 III 1I1BUUU UJf Hi" ii.oi,iiii
father.
AGAIN CANDIDATE
ittleboro. Aug. 2. Attorney-Ocn-
Horbert CI. Harbor announced to
hnt ho Is a candidate for re-elen-
Un says that if re-elected he
not again bo a candidate, for the
HUGHES WOULD write
FEMALE SUFFRAGE
INTO CONSTITUTION
Republican Candidate Comes Out Squarely for a
Federal Amendment Which Will Give the
Women of the United States the Right to
Vote Continued Agitation of the Subject
Means Danger to Our Security, Unity and
Attitude Toward Political Questions, He De
claresHe Favors "Taking the Shortest Cut
to the Solution" He Also Deprecates Sex
Organizations Based Upon Sex Speech
Made before Women's Roosevelt League for
Hughes.
New York, Aug. 1. Charles n.
Hughes twlco to-day declared himself
In favor of nn nmcndnmnt to the fed
oi nl constitution granting the vole to
women throughout the rutted .States.
In a letter to Senator .Sutherland of
Utah, sent in response, to a telegram,
Mr. Hughes stated his personal view
that the proposed amendment should
ho suhinltted by Congress to the States
and ratllled. In n speech late to-day
hoforo fion women of the Women's
Roosevelt Leaguo for Hughes, tiie mini
Ineo declared the question was one af
fecting the wholo country and that he
favored "taking the shortest cut to Us
solution."
"I believe this question should he
promptly settled," Mr. Hughes said. "I
seo nothing but danger to our security,
to our unity, to our proper attitude to
ward political questions, In continued
agitation of this subject."
In his address to the league, Mr.
Hughes again assailed the admlnistia
tlon for Its policy concerning Ameri
can rights abroad during the Euro
pean war.
The nominee also made a luncheon
address to-day to about fin republican
editors of New York State in which he
aid lie had twice been called upon to
live down an undeserved reputation
for coldness and aloofness and that he
was now passing through the 'third
xperlencc. He invited sympathetic co
operation.
This address was made after Mr.
Hughes had dismissed a stenographer
sent to tho luncheon by the national
ommlttee to obtain a verbatim report
f It. The nominee said ho did not
want his remarks to be taken down;'form
that he wanted to talk freely and fully.
file luncheon was private.
To-night. Mr. Hughes addressed a
mall meeting of social workers in-
ited by Herbert Parsons, national
ornmltteeman for New York, to meet
the nominee at an uptown club. Tho
meeting was private.
In his address to the "Women's
luniM-vuii. i-.L-iiKiJ mr ui-u mini
tnoo said:
"It Is an especial pleasure to meet 1
you this atternoon and to recognize the
,-oi-y deep interest that you feel in this
campaign. I am particularly glad to
have the support of this organization.
It hears the name of a great American.
It hears the name of one who has very
r-cently brought tho whole country to
a sense of its obligation, and aroused
very deep feeling with regard to
some of our most important concerns.
welcome the suppoit of the Roose
elt League.
"This is a campaign in which I am
sure women cannot fall to take a very ,
profound interest. J hey, If there can 118 1
any comparison In such a matter, feel
mine keenly perhaps than anyono else.
with icspect to tho national honor anil
the Importance of its maintenance to our
proper picpnratlon and our security; and
further, to that organization in our life
111 all its activities which will give us an
America going forwaid to meet the re
sponsibilities which ato sure to ho upon
us after this war Is over.
I note that you represent a very strong
feeling with regard to our relation to
mericnn rights In connection with war to
our relation to tho maintenance of Amer
ican rights in connection with Mexico.
We do not wish in this country to he
Iii ought Into unnecessary conflict.
I'heio Is not tho slightest danger of that
In n Just, firm and consistent American
policy.
It is very dlflleult to satisfy our friends
on the other side. If you say that tho
administration has been weak and vacil
lating, they reply; 'That Is nn old story'
they knew that before. If you say they
havo been lacking In firmness and con
sistency, they say 'wo are going to bo
tlrm and consistent tiow. Wo nro looking
to tho futuie, and we am going to turn
over a now leaf.'
Now, my friends, this is the reck
oning time. Wo are all stockholders
in a great corporation and the balance
sheet Is presented in order that we
may know what kind of administra
tion of our affairs we havo had. W'u
look over that balance shoot and wo
11 n d a serious dohlt balance, and wo do
not trust the administrators that havo
brought It about.
"There Is an Incurablo defect of
character In the administration with
respect to tho weakness and vacilla
tion which have characterized It; and
wo cannot expect Improvement from
that source. Wo can Judgo hy what
has been done nnd by that which has
not been dono; mid wo are hero to
gether under circumstances, very un
expected to me, to seo If wo cannot
have a genuine rovlval nf American
sentiment so that wo may face tho
world oroe.t and prepared.
"I explained last night my position
with regard to n very Important sub
ject In which many of you, If not all of
you, aro deeply interested; I refer to
woman suffrage; nnd as I then snld I
have ratlin to tho conviction that the
granting of a vote to women Is Inevit
able. I hoso that conclusion upon a
consideration of our economic condi
tions. "Thoro wix ha Mioso who dlsacroo
with that view; but I confess I do not
understand how any candid mind can
examine the tendencies of our life and
reach a conclusion that permanently
votes will be denied to women. I
think It Is Impii'slble.
"That being my conviction, 1 deprecate
most deeply sex organizations based upon
sex and not upon the general obligations
of citizenship borne by all. I view with
a great ileal of misgiving i contlnua'lon
of the agitation which I am sure will
grow more and more Intense as this move
ment meets determined opposition.
"I speak with reference to the America
of the future nnd the great Importance
that In our preparedness wo should deal
with leal political issues and not havo
our political life s'ldotracked hy a great
and determined movement made hv deter
mined opposition, with regard to tho com
position of our electorate. That Is a mat
ter that is fundamental. Wo must start
with our electorate and then discuss tho
matter witli respect to which they are to
act according to their convictions. And
so I want to see women, If they are to
havo the vote, as 1 believe they ought
to, come in as citizens, as men.
"I desire to see them not organized on
a sex basis, developing sex antagonism;
but with the responsibilities of citizens,
and coming In as men do and In connec
tion with the great questions of the day
to exert their powerful Influence accord
ing to their convictions nn those questions.
And so I stated that I favored woman
suffrage.
".Vow, I did not state last night my
attitude with regard to the federal
amendment. That matter wns not stat
ed specifically in the republican plnt-
I did not deal with it In mnk-
lnF? mj. form;l, rf,spnn,p to ,,, not)ft
cation of my nomination. To-dny. In
answer to a telegram from Senator
Sutherland of ("tali, 1 stated that con
sistently with the principle and view
I nnnounced last night I was in favor
of the federal nmendment.
I take that position because, reiter-
,, , ,,,,,. ,,, cn,,, T
lleve this question should be promptly
settled. I see tlolbillir hilt rlnntrni' In
()llr rnrit. to OUI. ,lnlt y , OI ,,.,. rl.
,......,, ,......., .,,,. Irnl m,rallnn ,
,.(intiIHIed agitation of this subject; and
I would take the shortest cut to its
solution.
"I further believe that It Is n mat
ter affecting tlm whole country. It Is
one of those matters where wo must
have a uniform policy. The country
I must decide on what that policy should
be. I have Indicated my belief as to
what It should he; but it Is a question
which affects the whole country the
compoMtion nf our electorate; and
tiiereforo 1 believe that the federal
iimiiiiiuionl should be submitted and
onltl he ratllled.
"Xow there ale. many things which
nCT(., ,,,. attention in connection
wllh thls (.lllnI,n;,ni j ll!m, s ,.ri,0Ilt.
ly rcferi ed to many of them that I
shall not detain you with a. special con
sideration of any one of theso issues
at this time. I desire to say that I am
heio to glvo myself mil cservedly to
the service of the I'nlteil States and I
want tho support of the women of the
country.'.'
As Mr. Hughes wns leaving tho
meeting he was accosted by Mrs. Wil
liam Korso Scott, a leader In tho anti
suffrage movement and formerly a
member of tho nxcctilivo board of tho
nntl-surfrane organization ill New York
State.
"I am sorry, Mr. Hughes, very sorry,
that a man of your sincerity should
support tho federal amendment for
women's suffrage," said Mrs. Scott.
"You, sir, will havo four generations
of women against you,"
"I nm sorry, madam, that wo dls
agiee," replied the nominee and ho
passed on.
HUGHES SPEECH IN
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
Washington, Aug, 2. Republican
Leader .Mann to-day secured unanimous
consent for printing Charles K. Hughes'
acceptance address In tho Congres
sional Iteconl, nnd Itepresentntlvo Hlsn
Williams, democrat, of Illinois, made
n long speech criticising the nominee's
utterances as characterized by "a lack
of consistency, a manifest purpose to
deceive, and n spirit of demagogy.'
Several lepubllcan members gave no
tier they would reply when tho House
meets again Friday.
ANOTHER ZEPPELIN
RAID ON ENGLAND
l-ondnn, Aug, 3, '.';15 a. m. German nlr
Ships hnvo again Mown over the eastern
counties of Kugland, dropping bombs.
An official communication Just Issued
says: "A number of airships crossed the
const of tho eastern enmities shortly
after midnight. Their objective has not
yet heon definitely nscertnliied, ns tho
mid Is still proceeding. Somo bombs
wero dropped at various places,''
That spnro room should bo bringing
you an incomo. I lit
MOOSE REFUSING
TO ACCEPT HUGHES
Conference at Indianapolis Will
Discuss Advisability of Hold
ing New Convention to Nomi
nate President.
COLBY POSSIBLE CANDIDATE
While the Leaders Arc Divided
as to Wisdom of Naminp; An
other Ticket They Are a Unit
ainiinst Endorsement of Re
publican Candidate.
Indlanapnlls, Aug. 2. Progressive
party leaders from a number of States,
who disapproved of tho action of the
Hull Moose national committee In en
dorsing Chnilcs E. Hughes for prosl
dent at Its meeting In Chicago June 2C,
will hold a conference here to-morrow
to consider the advisability of reas
sembling tho party's nntlonnl convon
tlon within thirty days to nominate a
candldnte for president as a running
mate for John M. Parker of Louisiana
nominee for vice-president.
John M. Parker of Louisiana, who Is
sued the call for the conference, ar
rived to-night nnd conferred with pro
gresslve leaders from other States, but
no definite plan has been aKieed upon
for to-morrow's conference.
ltalnbrldge Colby of New York, who
made the nominating speech for Roose
velt at the progressive national con
ventlon In Chicago last June, Is men
tinned as a possible cnnilldate, but his
friends believe ho will decline to run.
Another suggestion Is that John M. Par
ker of Louisiana be named for president
nnd another candidate selected for vice-
president.
While tho lenders who will alatend the
conference arc divided as to the wisdom
of naming a national ticket at this time
they nro a unit in protesting against
tho action of tho Hull Mooso national com
mittee In endorsing Hughes and favor
some action which will tud to perpetuate
the Progressive party as a natiot al polltl
cnl organization.
SLOCUM EXONERATED
FOR COLUMHUS RAID
Held Ilexpolisllile for Vllln's In-
wtsion l.ntt March.
Washington, Aug. 1. Colonel H. J
Slocum of tho Thirteenth cavalry has
been exonerated by tho secretary of war
of blame In connection with Francisco
Villa's raid on Columbus. X. M., last
March. Colonel Slocum wns In command
of the American troops at Columbus, and
there has been n great deal of unofficial
criticism of the apparent clrcumstane
that his forces were surprised by the
Villlstas. This criticism suggested neglect
of duty on the part of Colonel Slocum
All over the innntry stories have been
told of this or that alleged Incident on
the nlcht of Villa's raid, all tending to
show that the American troopers were
not on gunrd and that no precautions
bad been taken to pi event a surprise at
tack. It was made known at the war do.
pnrtment to-dny that the Columbus In
cident had been Investigated hy a spe
cial Inspector on the staff of ISrlg.-Gon.
Pershing. The department made public
tho Indorsements on the Inspector's re
port by General Pershing, Major-Gen,
Funston, commanding the troops on the
bonier, and Major-Gen. Scott, chief of
the general staff. A i ecoiuniendatlon
hy the chief of staff that Colonel Sin.
i um be advised that no stigma rested
upon Ills conduct, and that ho Rial his
command aro hiahly commended, was
approved by Secretary linker.
MORE VESSELS USE
THE PANAMA CANAL
Figures for June Mum Ilccovcrj- In
'I'm tTic.
Now York, Aug. J. -That tho Pan
ama canal Is coming Into Increased
use since It was opened again In April
to general truffle Is shown In the re
port for S3 months contained In the
current lssuo of tho "Canal Uncord."
The llgurcs for Juno show that 70 ves
sels passed through the canal from tho
Atlantic to the Paclllc, as compared
with fill In .May, 32 In April, and only
two In March. Tho collection nf toils
In May amounted to ISSS.os.i.to, which
was greater than for any month since
August, l'.U.''. Th canal wns dosed
by slides in the Culehra Cut In the mid
dle of September.
Shipping Interests report that tho in
criviscd traffic through the canal Is not
caused hy Millings between tho At
lantic and Paclllc coasts of tho United
States, from which ships havo been
withdrawn to engage In tho more
profitable trade with Europe, hut
largely duo to heavier commerce be
tween this country and tlio Hiibslau
port of Vladivostok and with tho west
coast of South America. The trade
with Chill In nitrates, both to tho Uni
ted Stutes and to Kurnpo, has boon
heavy, duo to the demands for wnr
munitions.
IimtMNOTON HANKIIUPTCY CASK.
Rutland, Aug. 2 Two petitions in
bankruptcy were filed to-ilay t,0
office In this city "f t-'lork F. s. Phttt
of tho United States court. Christine
A. Snuslo of Ilurllngton, a seamstress,
gives her llahllitlfX ns J271 and her as
sets as $100, exempt. The largest
creditors Include Nelllo Sullivan. Jlfift.
I :nuc Porolman, 'r,r'' ,a,"nN Carpenter,
I yc, ull oi UurlinM"".
WILL MEET TO-DAY
THE DEUTSCHLAND
QUITS CHESAPEAKE
BAY FOR OPEN SEA
Reaches the VirgrKftlJ"
Mile Dash Dropped by the Tug Timmins,
She Disappears Unharmed to Eastward with
Apparently Clear Field Ahead and Unob
served by Allied Warships' Patrol.
Norfolk. Vn., Aug. 1. The Germnn
suhmarlne merchantman Heutschlnnd
passed quietly out of the Virginia capes
at 8:30 o'clock to-night on her homc-
wnid vovnge apparently unob.'erved
by the allied warship patrol waiting
outside the three-mile limit. She wns
accompanied to the capes only by tho
tug Thomas P. Tinimlnt which hart con
voyed her down tho hay from JJaltl
more nnd by a newspaper dl'pateh
boat.
Her departure to sen followed an 1S-
mlle dash through tho lower Chesn-
penko bay. After proceeding slowly
most of tho way down, sho increased
her power nt fiS.in nnd renched the
capes Just after dusk. Nono of the
allied ci'tiNors was visible as she
passed through.
Whether she submerged before
reaching the three-mile limit Is un
known. The two accompanying boats
only know that sho disappeared un
hiumed and that to all appearances
she had a clear Held nhead to a point
where she would completely submerge
In safety.
Half an hour after the last light of
the Deutsehlnnd had disappeared the
Tlmmlns, seemingly satisfied with her
work, turned back and headed up
Chesapeake bay In the direction of
llaltlinore.
Huring part of the day the Dentsch
land had lemained hidden nt a cove
lip Chesapeake bay.
The trip of the submarine nnd the
convoying tug down Chesapeake bay
from Ilaltlmore was started under
ideal conditions. Not a cloud was in
sight as the submersible Increased her tho false superstructure and take
speed to 10 knots all hour soon after , soundings ns if preparing to dive. Just
clenrlng llaltimore harbor. The tngj.is ti10 .superstructure was denied the
fell In behind Immediately and by da rk Timmins moved ahead of the undersea
was r.On yards to the stern. liner and signalled that the boats In-
Tlie tug apparently had great dim- tended to pass on the starboard side,
culty In keeping up with the Deutseh- I immediately both vessels increased
land. Dark llames spurted from her tilc.ir speed and put over to the star-
funnels showing that the stoKors
aboard were keeping nil the steam
possible in her hollers. Then the wind
freshened and daik clouds began to
roll In from tho horizon. Soon the tug
wan pitching nnd lolling on her choppy
sea, her running lights dipping tip nnd
down and the spray Hying back from
her bow.
The submarine ahead, a brilliant
1 1 gui sinning iron, a lamp nunc. i.
u.e top in iicr periscope huh ki.m-i. urn.
red running lights hanging below on
the conning tower, plowed steadily
through the seas on an even keel,
flay steamers passing up and down
hnd their nttention attracted to the
siibmnrlno hy the brilliance of her
lights, especlnlly that on tho periscope.
They cast rays of their searchlights on
tho submersible, looking her over,
from stem to xturn. s nch of the
vessels recognized the submarine n
salute of three whistle blasts was
blown. The submnrlne answeied each
salute with her own whistle.
In the rays of the searchlights mem
bers of the crew could he plainly seen
inning up iinii now it ine aneroecK. ,
In the conning tower wns Capt. Paul
Koenlg, master of tho vessel. At his
side stood the pilot.
Soon before midnight the seas bccamn
still heavier. Under th? glare of search
II, slits It was seen that waves were, break
over the bow of the vessol and wash
ing the entire forward part. Occasionally
the conning tower and the light on the
periscope would be enveloped in a shower
of salt spray.
At l::w this morning, whllo passing
Solomon's Island, the last of the vessels
witli searchlights was passed. Hy that
u",ulm " ' i iidnngei'tug themselves. Only one
two had disappeared from tho deck. Ono ',, (l tramp steamer, passed them
of theso men was standing well forward. I nd Mhl, ,vnH flir nwnyi Ucr aUomnt!)
a lead line for sounding in his band, audi,,, wKnill lho Timmins met with no rc-
l...., tl ,1.- 1. ...... . ........ .....,..
tne other wns at tho stern. captain
Koenlg still was In ine conning tower,
garbed In slickers.
In tho bronil chnnnel, against the seas
that were running, tho submarine had
to Increase tho speed of her engines to
mnlntnlu her paco. Occasionally the
sharp stnecato of her exhnust wns blown
ncross the water by tho wind ind h
stream of sparks spurted from her stern
with the grny'sh smoke from tho power.
ful engines. Tho Tlmmlns fell bohlnd j ward the shoro and her outlines si l
mnro than onco and the siibmnrlno had dom could be seen.
to slow down a trltlo to wait for her. Decreasing her speed, the Deutschland
Thn.so aboard the submarlno and the hugged the shoro lino as closely as was
tug apparently weie worried hy the I possible, while tho Tlmmlns passed out
presence of a newspaper yacht, a speedy of the capes a short dlslnnco to deter
craft which kept up with the vessels i mine, whether tho allied warships wero
without difficulty. Tho tug especially kept
close watch on the yacht and ias quick
to take up a position between It and
the submarlno whenver the opportunity
presented Itself
WashliiRlon, Aug. 2. The tug Thomas
V. Tlmmlns, which accompanied the
German uerehant submarlno Deutseh
lnnd down the bay from Ilaltlmore, ro
ported to tho United States neutrality
squadron outside Hampton Itoads to
night that tho Deutschland had passed
out of tho capes at-S;3il p. ni.
Tho Tlnimlus' message was picked up
hy the destroyer Sterrett, which relayed
It to the Norfolk navy ynrd. Tho do.
stroyer then was outside the three-mile
limit to see that tho submerslble's
passage out was not Interfered with hy
the allied cruisers off the enpes until she
had passed out nf tho territorial waters
of the United States.
While Hie Slerrctt's report did not men
tion tho Deutschland hy name, navy
officials had no doubt that tho referencu
was to her. Tim Sterrett, with tlireo
other destroyers nnd the armored
cruiser North Carolina, It was pointed
out, wero doing neutrality duty off the
capes with a particular view to pro.
venting violation of Aineilcnn territorial
waters in connei thm with tho Deutseh
hind's depaituro.
Norfolk, Vn Aug - - For several
hours before the beginning of her dual
no0 tlll0,pusk After 18-
dash the Deut.ichland lay In a secluded
retreat near Tangier Island, about f(1
miles above Cape Henry. The steamer
Somerset and tho government buoy
tender Ivy reported during the early
afternoon that they had pnssed her nt
that point. The press boat then took
a position near the dividing point of
the Old Point and Capo Henry channels
nnd awaited tho coming of the under
sea vessel.
Shortly before six o'clock tho first
sight of the crnft was obtained. Appar
ently she wns nbout live miles away
and was low In tho water, only her
conning tower showing. The Timmins
was a short distance behind nnd they
wcro traveling about seven miles an
hour.
When mar the entrance to Mobjack
bay the Deutschland sighted tho press
boat nnd immediately reserved herself
and appeared to ho making for the
bay. After running for about two
miles she again headed south until she
wnp abreast the Timmins and then both
vessels put on full speed ahead toward
tho press boat. Suddenly they turned
off ns If to go down the Old Point
channel, but when the dispatch boat
made for the same channel, they
changed their course nnd headed di
rectly for Capo Henry. As tho
Deutsehlnnd approached it was appar
ent she was carrying a false super
structure, slightly lower than her con
ning tower. It was strawcoloied nnd
blended with the oilskin coats worn
hv her crew who crowded the deck.
When about n mile fiom tho piess boat
tho submersible began to ckar awny
i iM)ard
,s tho Tlmmlns came alongsldo the
press hont nt a distance of perhaps 1")
feet nnd with tho Deutsehlnnd moving
slowly close to her stnrhoard side, Captain
Hlnsch of the German war-bound steamer
Neckar. who had charge of the clearing
of tho Deutsehlnnd shouted througa a
megaphono "who Is that?'" Vpon being
I advised that It mis a neivspaptr boat, he
' n0UtCll thls infnrmatlon to the Deutseh
i . . . .. -nth ..-, ml. .... sn!P(1
moving nhead rnpldly.
Sailors on the Deutschland paid nn atten
tion to salutes from the newspaper boat.
The? gazed at her silently for a while
and then began putting on their blue uni
form coats.
Tho Deutschland was displaying red and
green lights set flush on the two sides
of her conning tower. As sho passed tho
newspaper boat she put out these lights.
The Timmins then moved over to the
port side of the channel about 15.) feet
from tho Deutsehlnnd they continued In
these relative positions for a consider
able distance down the bay.
Hy this time the sun was setting over
the water in which tho Deutschland stood
out clearly. Within a few minutes after
tho sun had set clouds began to roll up
from the horizon.
At a mile away, It was dlflleult to
see either tho crew. In their dark
clothing, or the vessel, painted to
matcli the color of the wnter. The
Tlmmlns enrried her regular i tinning
lights nnd for tho next ten miles the
Deutsehlnnd could be loented only by
her convey.
On these ten miles, however, the es
sols had a clear patch and they might
have burned nil their lights without
spouse,
As tho Cnpc Henry lightship nnd tho
Virginia nnd Mavylnnd pilot boats
enme Into the view of the Deutschhinil
nnd her convoy,' they began to ex
change blinker slgnnl.i rapidly, the
submerslhlo's white light in the top of
her periscope showing for tho nrst
time. When they were within two
miles of tho Onpi Homy lighthouse tho
submarine hnd moved over well to-
, there to block tho suhmailno's passage.
In less than 15 minutes, or shortly hefoi
nlno o'clock she signalled the Deutsch
land that sho had a clear path and the
uniler-iica freighter quickly hastened
down tho channel and to sea.
On tho way tho submarlno signalled
briefly to tho Timmins with her
periscope lluht. Tho signalling completed,
the light disappeared, nnd with It the
Deutschland.
LONDON WATCHES
DEUTSCHLAND'S PROGRESS
.nnl Officers Think Sho Will Jlnke
Trip iiitiih In .Snfety.
London, Aug. 2. Naval odlcors here
nro watching tho ri ported progress of
tho German submarine merchantman
Doutschland with considerable Inter
est, but espress llttlo hopo that sho
will not niako tho homeward voyngu
safely. An nfllclal of tho Hrltlsh ad
miralty dcdaicd that tho Hrltlsh had
no policy to announce In regard to tho
operations agulnst her. except tho de
termination to arrest her If possible,
Renl estato advertising has a dis
tinctive "uows value." SJ10 Urst offer
of property for sale is, rea'ly, 1111 Item
of news. Hut, of com so, It Is that sort
of news wlili Ii belongs to the advert'
IPS colunui
FEDERAL OFFICIALS
CONCERNED OVER
THREATENED STRIKE
Pres. Wilson Closely Watches
Developments in Fight be
tween 225 Railway Systems
and 400,000 Employes.
GOVERNMENT APPEALED TO
Great Strike Is Inevitable, It la
Said, Unless Strong Measures
of Intervention Arc Speedily
Introduced Labor Depart
ment Notified.
Washington. Aug. 2. Officials ol
the federal government, including
President Wilson, are closely watching
developments in tho controversy be
tween 22." railway systems and their
tno.ono employes, and are preparing to
offer every possible aid in effecting nn
agreement nnd avoiding a strike.
To-day the President forwarded to
tho labor department an appeal he had
received from the Chamber of Com
merce of the United States through
Harry A. Wheeler, chairman of tin
chamber's committee on railroads, d -daring
a strike Is Inovitable "unle 3
somo strong measures of Interventir 1
aro speedily Introduced," and urgln ;
an Inquiry. Acting Secretary of I.abc
Post said to-night ho was in closo
touch with the situation, but had not
decided whether action by the de
partment would be necessary.
The federal board of mediation and
conciliation, which Is authorized by law
to attempt to avert strikes on railroads,
also Is keeping natch of developments,
and Its officials expect to he called on as
soon as the strike vote, now being count
ed, has been completely canvassed.
Copies of tho chamber's appeal to
President Wilson weie forwarded to
chairmen of the congressional commerce
committees and to representatives of thu
railroads and tho employes. The chamber
Is considering calling a conference here
to Impress Congress with the advisability
of Immediate action.
Mr Wheeler said ho had recently at
tended a meeting of representatives ot
the employers and employes In New
York and that as a result his conviction
was deepened that nn nmieahle settle
ment was remote.
In anticipation of a general conference
here on the question the chamber hai
sent to all commercial bodies In thu
country copies of the letter to the Presi
dent with a request that each send a
representative to such a meeting.
PLATTSBURGH GIRL'S
BODY RECOVERED
Chnrlotte Dninns Thrum, from nn-l-"nnt
CII.T nnd Drnnnril,
Pittsburgh, N. V., Aug. 2. The
body of Miss Charlotte Dumas, the 17
year-old Plattsburgh girl who was n
stnntly killed early to-day at Wilming
ton Notch by being thrown .in fee
down a cliff from the autonvMI t
which she was riding, was recovered
lato this afternoon. Tho tar struck
the bridge nnd Miss Dumas nnd Ml
Mildred Ranker, also of Plattshurgh
wero thrown over the heads nf tho
two young men with whom they wer
1 kllng.
Miss Dumas struck on the rock
while Miss Hanker fell in the water
Peter Hanlon. ono nf the young men I"
the car. leaped from the cliff Into tin
wnter after the girl and saved her frm
drowning. The party had been to Lake
Plncid nnd weie leturning to thetr
homes.
VERMONT GOLFERS IN
ANNUAL TOURNAMENT
Kntrlrs Closed for Ycnrly Invent Whir1!
Open"! nt Itutlnnil 1'rlilny.
Rutland, Aug. 2. Kntrles difed to
night for the nnnunl tournament of the
Vermont Stato Golf association, which
is to he held on the links of the Rut
land Country club to-morrow. Fridu'
nnd Saturday. A number of vis 'Ii
players wero out familiarizing tin n,.
selves with the course to-dny. then
will he participants from Ilrallleboro.
Ilennlugtoii, Manchester, Dorset. Rut
land, Burlington, St. Albans, Montpeller
and Harre. It ha required much worn
to put the links in condition w.r
the meet. I.unch will he sc.v i l'.
at the club house each day to ''l.-Hit
PUBLISHERS TO REDUCE
SIZE OF PAPERS
Now York, Aug. 1. Publisher of dal
papers, at a meeting this after. won, too
action which will result In the dnieate In
the number of pni;es In their nn r 1
evening and Sunday Issues of Ul p. ,es
week. The reduction of so many page
a step to relievo the news print paper s '
nation which Is retarded b." the pu'''ur
ers ns cry serious Action was ,1
takon to eliminate letmns of ui.sn'd 1 tp
Ics.
Charged with Stealing $58.
Manchester. Aug. 2. A yocng mini who
pnve his nniiin ns Charles Shiu and h
address ns Springfield, Mnss., was arrest
ed this morning r.t tho Manchester r.i
wny station on :i complaint that be hi
broken Into a bunk nnd stoh n fro
Ids hoarding mistress, Mrs. Ida Ho'and, c
Mast Dorset. This sum of moncj w.
found on the man and ho vn.. 'imugi
before a justice here, wheio bo pie U
guilty. Ho was committed ,o Jab t
HenuliiKlon under jmo ball to nwcll t o
action of tho liisher court
t
