TN AM COUNTY
HI 1R Al Do
VOLUME XIV.
COOKE VILLE, TENNESSEE, THURSDAY. AUGUST 3, 1916.
NUMBER 31
PU
TENNESSEE NEWS
CUT TO THE QUICK
FOR BUSY READERS
Governor Rye was the recipient or
a beautifully -worked stiletto, which
came from W. B. Washington, a pris
oner at the state mines at Petros. The
blade was beaten out of a spoon, the
guard hammered out of a penny, and
tne nanaie made of white bone. A
request that the stiletto be used to
cut off the remaining seven years of
the convict's fifteen-year sentence ac
companied the gift.
Marvin Cam pen, of Nashville, for-
A waterworks plaat will be erected merly ot McMlnnvllle, has been ap-
In Knoxvllle at a cost of 1175,000. PO""ea asaisiani unnea Biaiei ais-
.,. , ... .. .... . vnci Lioruy ana wm assume we
Tne 17-months-old child of Farmer ..,,, ' , .
o-, v. , . v,---,- nar. irt.
... ... . , . . . ' J
inircy moussna pounas or Clover Donrlisa recommended the annoint-
seed will arrive In Knoxvllle from the ment and Attorney General Gregory
wuiuern pan 01 r ranee IBIS weeK. ennfirmwl It
MaH. f tu. VI- .1,. . v.. v
TV, wZXZnuTLZ Th. Methodist AdvocateJournal, the
.tomi T Kno" ' official organ of th. Southern Confer-
. i cucob ui un MBiaoaui episcopal
" regisirauen lor me res- Church, will eontintia to h nuhllghed
ent session of the Sumner School of at Athens for the next quadrennium.
the South IS 1,613, Including the POO- Thia was dwldail at a mMtinr of th
Plfom Knoxvllle, wh,cn lea tUs nook committee ot the church at Cin-
sxui me largest summer school in the ,inn.tt. vnr .Am. mn,,ti.. it , t...
South. . h, .,-ho n
The Dry Creek tine, lead and silver to Cincinnati and combine it with the
mines of near Liberty have been leas- Methodist Book Concern publications,
ed to the Nebraska Mining Company The Board of Mayor and Aldermen
ior operation, ine company is pre-1 0f Manchester has passed a curfew
prnrmg to DeKm worx at an eany oate. uw. The law provide that the cur
Outcroppings of the ore found in these f.w will h tumda t a nvwk and
. --- " v.. . w
mines extends Over Several miles. all naraona under 1 vaara of am are
A mammoth tomato plucked from a I allowed fifteen minutes to get off the
Tine In . the garden of Mrs. Louis streets. The -only exception is that
Adams, of Selmer, was exhibited to they are allowed on the streets at a
many people as a curiosity. It is of later hour provided they are returning
the Ponderous variety, is a perfect I from religious, educational exercises
growth and measures 26 Inches in I or places of public amusement
cu-cumierence, weigmng two and three-1 Denutv Collector Charles N. Gra-
quarter pounos. cev. of Crookeville. and a nosae of
while walking In her sleep Miss other revenue officers raided and de-
Grace Herring, the 17-year-old daugh- stroyed a large illicit distillery, lo-
ter of Mrland Mrs. A. H. Herring, of cated near Flynn's Lick, In Jackson
Nashville, fell from the second-story County. A complete "moonshine" out
window ot their home and was aeri- fit, including a large copper still and
ously injured. Both oj her left limbs 800 gaUons of "slngllngs," was de-
were broken and other injuries re-1 stroyed. This is reported to be one
ceived. I of the most .important raids made by
The City Commission of -Bristol has I 0,8 revenue officers in that section
adopted ordinances providing for the of tt "ute during the past few years.
collection of revenues aggregating ln J. W. Fulgham, one of the three
excess of 1 90,000 to meet the expenses trusties who escaped from the Nash'
of the current year. The tax rate is ville penitentiary in a canoe, walked
12 on every $100 of valuation, anl I Into the office of Warden Shaw eev-
thls is divided up to meet the various eral days later and said he had fin
items included in the annual budgets I ished his vacation and was ready to
A celebration incident to the aetion finish out his term. He could give
of the .University of Tennessee trus- n0 information of the whereabouts of
tees in continuing the summer school Lloyd Logan and John ciouse, tne
of the South as an integral part of otner fugitives. Fulgham was sent up
the university course was held in Irom waraeman uounty ior one to nve
Knoxvllle by the 1,500 students by a
special program at which much en
thusiasm was evident.
, Col. W. A. Henderson, of Washing
ton, general solicitor for the Southern
years for attempting forgery.
A committee of three, representing
the United Mine Workers of America,
with a membership of over 400,000,
visited the Pressmen's Home, near
Railway Company, will address the Rogereville, with a view of gathering
members of the East Tennessee Press data looking to the establishment of
Association on August 11 at their busi- lmllr institutions. They were en-
ness seseion to be held on the campus tertained by President Geo. L. Berry,
of the Lincoln Memorial University I of tne Pressmen, and have expressed
at Cumberland Gap. i complete satisraction over possible
mi. vnth .., .... v- Ues of locating in East Tennessee
K.h w v,. r: I This is the third committee that has
visited East Tennessee with a view
of establishing institutions.
Not only is Germany going to es tab-
In the past six months has been filed
against W. T. McLaln, vloe mayor and
fire and police commissioner. .He is
charted with , willful neglect of duty I "n a suomanne . line, oetween mat
' . . 1 . J .1 TT l. 1 r-.. -. .
wuucrjr.; uu . uo yiuneu futu, VUl,
according 40 a 'letter received by Prof.
Rudolphi A.' Kratoch, instructor In vio
lin music at Intermont College, at Bris
tolfrom his' brother in Germany, they
and; misconduct In connection with en
forcemeat of liquor laws, in
' Attorney' General Estes, of Shelby
County, Was removed from office Sat
urday by the Legislature on Impeach- H,. I T , , T. ,
meht ; charge..', which alleged among b "sh alf line' of
other thinn. that h. ,.n.r.d t Li! Zeppelins as weU. : Prof. Kratoch's
lect Illegally. He was not, h6w- ft'otier. writes him that he is coming
ever, disqualified from holding office f?'?0 ' ? Di
m the future -. ;J ' .
trelslirer of tne ' Tennessee Veneer P thi" flm ov)r-
v.n .. .!., sea trio. ' '
word from France of the death of his
sea trip.
With ' the three bullet in his body
brother. James, who was killed in ac- trom the pistol of a detective whom
tion dulrng the recent British drive ne tried to kill on a downtown street
on July 1, Mr. Veal being shot dead ,n Memphis, Charles Reynolds, a ne
while in charge of a machine gun. ' ro thought to have been erased by
Hal Mosely, of Chattanooga, presi- leaped Irom the operating ta-
dent of the state branch of the Amer- Dl ln the hospital, where he had been
lean Poultry Association, will go as taken by the police, and, breaking the
a delegate to the American Poultry flass door of an instrument case,
Ansociatlon meeting at Cleveland, Au- eised a surgeon's knife. Advancing
gust 7, and will make an effort to se- on the attendants, he created a panic
cure' the 1917 meeting of the assecia- among them. The police patrol driver
tion for Chattanoora. re-entered the room and. knocking the
1 .11 IHJII XIBUCIULB .
A gun tournament participated in negro unconscious, averted further iTotal Cash .........
sy about forty or the best shots in irounie. I Total paid out
DEM0CRATSWIN
A Regular Landslide in
Putnam County
SLAGLE, MILLER AND C0UNTISS
Ran Like Scared Deer and Score a
Great Victory. Boyd Unopposed
The election in Putnam county
was a great victory for the Dem
ocrats. Their ticket was elected
by the largest average majority
ever received, varying from 750
to 925. Following is the approx
imate vote in the county:
SHERIFF
Miller . c 1870
Deck ..1.1120
' TRUSTEE
Slagle 1900
Stone 1080
ASSESSOR
Countiss... 1950
Cole.. ....1035
COUNTY ATTORNEY
Boyd (unopposed) . 2350
Members of County Board of
Education elected were: E. M.
DuBois, J. A. Harris, B.M.Carr.
J. T. Moore, W. M. Henry.
The constitutional convention
was lost by a large majority in
the county and by a narrow mar
gin in the state.
The Crump ticket was elected
in Shelby county. : ' ,
Bud Lynch was elected trustee
in Jackson county and Sid Al
corn sheriff in White.
A SUCCESSFUL DAY
The Woman's Conference which
TAKES HER OWN LIFE
One of the saddest tragedies ever
was held here Tuesday was a most occuring in Putnam county happened
interesting and delightful affair. A last Friday, when Miss Elva Jemi-
full program was carried out and ean took her own life. She was the
much inspiration was gotten from daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Chas. P
the meeting. In the absence of Jernigan, who live near Double
Mt. View Lodge No. 179 I O O F
Mayor HoUadav. Prof T K. Sik Springs. Her father was awav on a "8U n.ouri. JUiy
welcomed the visitors to th citvitrip and her mother spent Friday !.:,.. "' .blag!e- Presiding.
and Mrs. Walter darln rv t. hvith a neiehbor. Comine hnmn about ' "?.u,le . lw. 01 routine DUSiness waa
lngs from the local Parent-Teachers' supper time she missed Elva, but
Aftnnrlntinn fioa Alma 7am1 nf thnnpht Ah a was nt an ma nolcrTitwra I
Smith County responded. The girl did not come home during
The entire day was a mental feast; the night, and early Saturday morn-
while at noon the bountiful lunch I ing her dead body was found hang-
served by the ladies was one to ! ing in the loft of the barn at her
please the most epicurean taste. All
present were well pleased with the
conference and many who could not
attend sent regrets, Insisting that
this become an annual affair of the
Fourth district. Over one hundred
and fifty were served lunch. The
Parent Teachers' Association was
very much complimented upon the
ease and facility with which they
jerved so large a crowd and the
bountifulness of the menu.
FIELD MEETINGS
The following community meetings
for the discussion of cover crops and
seed selectioa are to be held on
Friday and Saturday of nekt week.
All farmers of these communities
are requested to be present, and join
in the discussion of important prob
lems of their communities. . -
Pleasant Valley, on the farm of
Sam Hicks, Friday, Aug. 11th, at one
o'clock. . .
Post Oak, on the farm of Byrd
home. The alarm v was given and
soon a crowd assembled. The body
was taken down and an inquest
held by a justice of the peace sum
moning a Jury, whose verdict was
that the girl came to her death by
her own hands. The act was prob
ably done sometime Friday afternoon
or early night. There were no
marks on the body or any evidence
of a struggle.
uisposea 01. uro. u. Bradford waa
reported about as last week. Bro.
J H York has improved some during
the week. He contemplates going
to Red Boiling Springs at an early
date.
One petition for transfer was re
ctived and referred to a committee.
The Grand Secretary in n'8 notes
states that the "reports from the1
subordinate lodges in Tennessee
have been pouring into the Grand
Secretary's office at a rapid rate for
the last two weeks.' (This Lodge
holds the Grand Secretary receipt
for per capita tax and report for last
term ot date July 4, 1916; not over
ti TorniiAin waa ahnnt i voara i i Lodges In the state, exceeds this
old, a lovable, sweet-natured girl, adlln, amount) He 8ays, 'many of them
mlrnri hv all wfin fcnAW tior ShlD"uw " ixuyiurcu cuumuuu uitt
was planning to attend the new
state school in Cookeville this fall.
greater prosperity, while some have
lost heavily in membership. The
and apparently was in good health ! Prospects of the ordjer,- however,
and the best of good spirit. No!Beem t0 b.? brighter than they were
cause is known for her fatal action. ,ia81 year- ome ne" meeting.
The cutting off of her young life has
cast a gloom over the entire section,
and the people sincerely sympathize
with tht grief-stricken family.
A SPLENDID PAPER
Among the instructive and inte-
Phillips, Saturday, Aug. 12, at . ten resting reports sent into the Woman's
o'clock. ! Conference was one about the "Camp.
Special request Is made that all , fire Girls" by Miss Elisabeth snow
corn and pig club boys be present.
MRS." LOUISA LANSDEN
Mrs. Louisa Lansden died on Thurn
day, July 27, 1916, at the home of
her daughter, Mrs. J. R. Goodpasture
of Nashville, aged about 75 years.
She ' was burled in Good Hope ceme
tery in Overton county. She 1b sur
vived by one daughter and five hour:
H. C. Lansden of Cookeville; J. T.
Lansden of Livingston, J. B. Lans
den of Oklahoma, and W. D. Lans
den of New Mexico.
DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE
The Democratic Executive Commit.
tee of Putnam county is hereby called
to meet ln the courthouse at Cooke
ville, Tenn., on Saturday, Aug. 5, 1916
at one o'clock p. m. for the mirnose
of fixing a time and manner of nomi
nating a Democratic candidate for
Representative in the General Assem
bly, and the transaction of such other ed
ousmess as may legaay come before
said committee.
This July 26, 1916.
C. H. RICKMAN, Chm.,
JOHN H. CORN WELL, Sec.,
Democratic Executive Com.
mlttee. -
OFFICERS ELECTED
The board of governors of the
Cookeville Commercial Club met
Monday night and elected the follow
ing officers to serve for one year:
J N Cox, president; G N Guthrie,
and W M Shanks, vice presidents;
M T Carlisle, temporary secretary;
T. K. Sisk, treasurer.
The board will meet again next
of Crossvllle, who has a camp of
fourteen girls. The Herald will pub
lish this in the near future. Many
other excellent reports were sent
but on account of the time they were
not read, but will be published later.
Miss Evans, Investigator of rural
rrtarkets fond organizations who is
ln the department of . agriculture,
sent letter of greetings and also
some fine programs to be used by
the women of the counties for their
meetings. The bulletins sent out by
the Kovernment on home economics
should be in the hands of every
woman of this district and can be had
for the asking if name is - sent to
Mrs. Rutledge Smith.
REPORT OF RECORDER
To the Mayor and Aldermen.
Gentlemen: I beg leave to submit
the following report for the quarter
ending July 31, 1916. t i
City ' Col. Disb. Bal.
Bal. 516116 $902.97
' 86. uz
121.25
103.47.
70.00 '
4.81
$385.15 $391.76 $896.36
ANDERSONBAILEY
, On Thursday, July 27, at 10:30
a. m.. Mr. Joel H,s Anderson of Spar
ta and Miss Josephine Bailey were
quietly married at the home of the
bride's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Wm.
Ttniiov at RavPTiaoroft. Tenn.. Elder
Friday night at which time the flveE a. ' Elam ' officiating,
permanent committees will be nam- 'They left immediately on an ex-
I tended trip through Illinois, Ohio
and Michigan, making Battle Creek,
Propert y
Privilege :
Advalorem
Fines -
Int. on Tax
Total "
School
Bal, 5616
Property
Polls
Advalorem
Co Trustee
Interest .
Total '
Street
Bal. 516116
Property
Interest
Advalorem
Polls
Total
W and L
Bal. 516116
Property
Interest .
Advalorem
P House
Total
Interest
Bal. 16116
Property
Interest ,
Advalorem
$ 211.94
103.22
16.00
124.28
1100.00
6.14
$1348.64 $809.94
$750.64
$28.98
51.68 . .
2.58
62.14
48.00
$164.30 $368.89 $ 44.39
$1049.71
34.88
1.72
1 41.43
2444.08
$2521.61 $2967.72 $603.60)
$149.13 ,
68.80
3.43 ,
82.85
AUTO ACCIDENT
Last Sunday night while driving
his car near Baxter, Jere B. Barnts
met with an accident, the car turn
ing over. Chas. D. Hinds and Paul
Sloan of Nashville were with Mr.
Barnes. Mr. Sloan was severely
bruised, but no bones were broken,
and Mr. Hinds and Mr. Barnes es
caped Injury. The car was badly
damaged. Mr. Sloan is at the home
of Mrs. Z. T Hinds, and will be con
fined to his room for several days.
Mich., their principal stopping place.
They will return to their home in
Sparta about September 1st.
Mr. and Mrs. Anderson both have
many friends and are very popular
young people. Mr. Anderson is a
prominent young attorney of Sparta
and Mrs. Anderson was one of Cum
berland mountain's fairest flowers.
A host of friends wish them a long
life of happiness. Sparta Expositor.
ESTES REMOVED
i 7. M TCatAa wan
removed from office by the court of tog ometime in September at the
Impeachment, but not oisquaunea "'"". " wui do announcea
from holding office, thus setting aside I Jatw. nd all members are requested
the constitution. The verdict was aj" be .Pjfnt . ,
uibi itcu ui August id i ue
time to report your plants. We
would like for everyone to use six
Do you love your wife and child
ren; then protect them tv ininina
the Modern : Woodmen of America,
with a policy of one, two or three
sand dollars. It Is within the
reach of every man and It 1b as
sound as a silver dollar. Investi
gate at once.
Read the following, clipped from
the Forester. ; t ,
"I can't see the use of insurance,'
said a man the other day. "You
have to pay assessments continual
ly. Why not save up that money
instead and have the usa of it
i self all the time?".
If he can't see the use of insurance
there are a hundred thousand 'wid
ows who could see the us of it if
their husbands had only provided
for them in that way and not left
them destitute. . , -
If he can't-see the use of insur
ance, a million of orphan children,
can see it, because for the lack of it
by their fathers they are Insufficient
ly fed, poorly clad, wretchedly houa-'
ed, and handicapped by an ill-nour
ished body and little or no education.
"Why not save up that money," he
asks, "and not pay it out for asaesiu
mentsT" He is now forty-two years
old. He has been working since he
was sixteen. How much has be
saved? Not one dollar
And so he and the like .of him.
shiftless, unreasonable, selfish, and
rauit-nndmg, go on to the sad end.
CRY8ANTHEMUM CLUB
A very interesting and enthuslaa.
tic meeting of the Chrysanthemum
Club was held July 27 at The Way
side, which was well attended.
we planned to hold another meet-
OLD FAVORITES HERE
The Kadell-Erltchfleld Show is in
Cookeville this week, giving splendid
attractions each night In their big
tent. They are old favorites here
and always draw large audiences.
The plays given are clean and whole-
J5LbJmw-irfiie--mUA,f 'Parent Teachers' will be held Wed- too many sizes
victory for General Estes.
PARENT-TEACHERS TO. MEET
The next regular meeting of the , or eight inch pots so as not to have
high grade. -The Herald wishes the! aft7moVn IV Wayside, busi
company and each member thereof
continued success
MEETINGS AT SMYRNA
Geo. W. Graves, of Nashville will
begin a series of meetings at Smyr-
ness of importance and all members
urged to be present.
8TATE SCHOOL MONEY
Th aemi-annual apportionment of
state school funds was made on July autumn, for the following
Those members who have not yet
received the copy of "How to Grow
Chrysanthemums" will please call at
The Wayside and get one.
Prize will be awarded at the show
which will be held sometime ln early
. .... A l mi mi n nuiitni luiiui) tt
na on Tuesday nignt, Aug. . ser- r m t tini9.9 The com
mons morning and night during the l Putnam county get
week and two sermons and dinner!
on the ground . on Sunday. Every
body invited.
Alexandria Fair. Sept. 7, 8, 9.
RENSSELAER, INDIANA
Kind Editor, if you will allow me
a mut space in your gooa paper i --. NftRhville. Tenn.. Aug.
will write a few lines this morning. - ,;;v-.Rhft. " vers
It is sure hot up here. It has been rtn attend nart of the
on iao v .t.. - much for you to attena pan oi tut
$5,261.38.
LYNCH, NEBRASKA
Only a short letter this time. Hope
every one will write more often than
they do, for all your lettera are inte
resting. I . .
There is going to oe an i o a .
Total $155.08
Total balance May 6. 1916.
Total Receipts
. $304.21
..$2562.73
P 4574.78
. 7137.51
4538.31
very
from 90 to 108 in the shade for two much for you'topmor tne
WRRKH. I - . .
Best red, white, pink, cream, lav
ender, yellow and fvarigjated - best;
cluster of any color, and best collec
tion of six.
We are asking for volunteers to
give these prizes, if you are inte
ested ln the show and would like
to give a prize call either Mrs. I
M. Bullington, Chm., or Mrs. T D
I Ford, Asst.
THAT MORNING LAMENES8
the Southland will be held in Knox- The Tennessee troops will be moved
ville August 8 and 9. It will be under to the Mexican border "just as soon
the auspices of the Knoxvllle Gun as they are fully equipped and pre-
Club, which has received a certificate pared," according to a personal letter
of registration from the Interstate As- from Major General Leonard Wood to
sedation secretary . authorising, the Governor Rye, received at the capitoi.
shoot as officiaL ' Owing to the uncertainty of the time
M. O. Kldrldge, government road in which the remaining work of equip-
expert, has inspected the road work ping the various Tennessee units can
ln Knox County. He commends the be completed, .Major General Wood
Knox County Good Roads Commission was indefinite as to the exact date of
in its expenditure of the $500,000 pro- departure. Adjutant General Roman
vided in a legislative act. However, declared that the work was progress
he states that provision should be ing rapidly and that the troops would
made for a more permanent mainte- be removed to the border soon whether
nance of the road system. - war is declared or not.
The Dixie Highway Council has de- Under an opinion furnished Comjh
cided to make application tor an in- trailer John B. Thomaaon by Frank
crease of the convicts at work on the m. Thompson, attorney general of the
Suck Creek section of the highway gtate, assessment of many millions of
In order to finish the work, by Decern- dollars' worth of property' heretofore
ber 1. There are now 26 convicts at deemed ae exempt by state and County
work on the Hamilton County side, assessors will be made. One of the
while there are 70 at work on the m08t important conclusions expressed
Marion County side, ; m the opinion is to the effect that ma-
After a friendly fight of four years terial which has gone through a pro-
tke will of Joe Ab Sawyer, who died csa of manufacture, such as cloth
four years ago, ln which Robert Saw- mae 0f cotton or wool and in the '
yer, his 12-year-old son, had been dis- . , . ,v.
inherited, Judge Wykle. ef William- hand' of a manufacturer, other than !
eon County, declared the will Invalid tte manufacturer ot such material, and i
Total Balance now 2599.20
L. M. BULLINGTON, Recorder.
i ' . a AlAAni1flrVi A Tiff AR.
Boys, it will soon be election day. otne , t tTJSS Russell
ju all go to t
ck Miller. II
work for Dock
. . . , i.town vnn win kcl uivib ewv., -
neara your ooy was out plowing me y" " an(1 more the ores-
UllUClAiwiu v
enf truth. ... p.
For assignments address Milton E.
Confehr, 1516 Mcuavocit et.
Mil soon De election aar. "r.r .1',.. Russell
. ii x a..- ..11. Ttflniail V Ulfl 'bU, taow " v :
iTu l ? puus V1 ri will ive an address on that day.
222 1 WM there 1 W0UWlSL Da1iuff?l'm sure you will not
Hack Randolph of Baxter R. 2. I eip- . ----
other day.
JEFF RANDOLPH.
SPARTA R. 1 (KEY)
BLOOMINGTON ROUTE ONE
Adline Rodgers and Delia Vantrease
I I : . . . T ImLKi.'. Qiin.
t. an things I eave you an ex-
ri. that an laborine ye ought to
1 ji . . , . i valn tha wnnlr ana to reuieuiuci vuo
Mr. comer Stone and Miss Laura J oi. i. nt thn Lord Jesus, that he
S5SSJK- W and Bethel Carrington were
If you are lame every morning, and
suffer urinary ills, there must be a
cause. Often it's weak kidneys. To
strengthen the weakened kidneys and
avert more serious troubles, use
Doan's Kidney Pills. You can rely
on this testimony.
' Mrs. Martha Hearn, 314 N. Maple, '
St Lebanon, Tenn., says: "My back
ached constantly and I had soreness ,
across my kidneys. I : tired easily,
especially mornings. Frequently, I
had headaches and 3 could hardly.'
stand from dizziness. The secretions
from my kidneys passed too freely.- .
hesday. We wish them much success
through life. i - . .
Corder Clarke and Haskell Daniel
made a flying trip to Ravenscroft last I
week. -
Willie J. Howard of near Sparta
visited at J L pendergrass' recently.
The writer visited Mrs. Lester Lem
ons Wednesday afternoon.
There was a large crowd at Mt.
Herman, Saturday night. ; .
Anne, have you forgotten the Her
ald. If not write another good letter.
A recipe for a happy life, 'Take a
large quantity of chjeerf ulness and
let it simmer without stopping. Put
with it a brimming basinful of kind
ness, and then add a full measure of
thoughts for dther people. Mix with
this a tablespoon full of sympathy.
Flavor with essence of charity. Stir
well together and cheerfully strain
off the grains of selfishness. Let the
whole be served with liT sauce and
fruit of the spirit." " "
. .- ' - Kitty Pendergrass.
SUBMARINE DEPARTS
and claimed th. young son entitled to article -made of sucn material in the JSSliS.
on ,oi iu propeny oi mo aeceasaa, tanas or the manufacturer or ui a- on her return trip to Europe. It will
take about two weeks to reach Bremen.
which amounts to $75,000.
I tides, are taxable.
guests of Will Shoemaker, Sunday.
Will Shoemaker and wife were
guests of Frank Rodgers, Sunday.
Arch Carrington and wife were
guests of John Rodgers, Sunday even
ing. " '
Cora Rodgers visited Mai Goolsby,
Sunday.
writing. Crops look very well thru
i.vi. ffnnaMnrinir me ury
I would like a shower of. birthday haven't had any rain
naria Ahp- 10 All cards will be t weather. We naveni naa
annL A" CardS " !m about five weeks. I came . from
highly appreciated
Address, Cora Rodgers, Blooming
ton Springs, Tenn., R. 1. v ...
MONTEREY
Twill drop a few lines to our good
little paper. Health iR very good in
this section.
J H." Whittaker is very low at this
writing. -'
Come on all of you good writers
with your good .letters.
You Oklahoma boomers come ahead
as you say you have a fine country.
I want to thank the friends and
Herald readerg for sending me a card
on my birthday. I received 22 nice
cards and want to thank on and all.
I will close by asking a shower of soon.
cards for my -sister, Aug. 11. Her
address is Miss Amy Whittaker, Mon.
terey, R. 1.
Lizzie Whittaker.
himself said, it is more blessed to . jean's Kidney Pills strengthened my
. . . j.1 l ami 90 SR. ! ..... , vi j i
LOLA LEE WEST, 'shape.'
' - ' Price 50c, ' at all dealers. Don't
WHITSBORO, TEXAS, R. . 'simply ask for a kidney remedy- get
If you will allow me a little space.j,, Kldney pnisthe same that
I will Jot down a tew lines from th s,Mrg Hearn nad rosit,T Milhurn Co.,
place. .Health is very good at this.p,. Buffalo, N. Y.
McKELLAR AT MONTEREY
CHAUTAUQUA
The Chautauqua at Monterey, Aug.
1E lit .n 17th KIH. tni- n Ka tka
- . . nn.U..knM if '
Texas, and lanaea 1Jvu"c,'h'; ! great event of the Upper Cumberland
Grayson county, and like it nne, dui , BecMon tniB Bummer. The enterpris-
Tennessee about three years ago to
I still love the name of good oia len- lng committee has arranged with
nessee. Hon. K. D. McKellar to speak here
.You Boma and Silver Point poys, darlng that period and, as there is an
hello to you aii. am r, ' T educational, agricultural and health
are you doing for a good ume. J"R- dayf interesting programs have been
I would be giaa io nee ju "-.
I have just got in from a fishing
Ahnnt twentvflve or thirty
people went to Red River frorn tmsjDrs. Lucian Burch and J W Hanley.
place. We stayed two days And two, romlnent doctorfl ot Nashville, will
nights, caugm a pirm
had lots of fun.
Grandma, Vada and "Maud, mother
received your letter and will answer
arranged for each day.
. Dr. R L Lillard and N M Shoulders
of the State Board of Health, and
CouJtin Maud Sadler, why don't you
answei my letter. You ougnt t
here and help me eat water melons.
ALLTE SUTTON.
speak on health .day. The program
for educational and agricultural days
have not i been entirely completed,
but Secrttary of Agriculture, H K
Bryson and . Prof. C A Keffer, head
of the agricultural department of the
University of Tennessee will be on
the list; also several distinguished
'educators.
