rrn tot 7171 -o a tdtd tit' tti a tt it w nriiTMfi?e
VOL XX NO. 110.
HAKKK, VKHMOXT, TIUJHSDAV, AUGUST 3, 1910.
PRICE. OXE CEXT.
V
CASEMENT DIED
ON SCAFFOLD
FOR TREASON
Was Convicted of Conspiracy to Cause
Armed Revolt in Ireland and With
Having Sought German Aid to That
End He Was Hanged in Pentonville
Jail This Morning
MESS HALLS FOR VERMONTERS.
MET DEATH COOLLY
AND WITHOUT FEAR
"I Die For My Country" Were His
Last Words Apart From the Prayers
Which He Repeated Up to His Last
Moment Cheers Mingled With
Groans From Crowd Outside
Building to B Erected By Soldiers at
Eaglo Fait.
Eagle Pass, Tex,, Aug. 3. 8otn of tha
comfort (if htim will be offered in Hi
Vermont aertion of (.'amp Shafter ith
in the next few day. The lumlwr arrival
yesterday for the erpiannt it hall.
t oi. iteevrs haa something, cm all In
other eoonel in ramp. He simply sent
to day for Private Pellet of I company
of Burlington, who ja an architect, con
tractor ami builder. The colonel told him
to take charge of the work. IVIIete then
skirmished the ramp ami found that
there were 30 carpenters in the regiment.
If tha, Ycrmonter don't have the Itest
mess halla in all of Eagle J'aia it will
be no fault of theira.
While 1'rivato Pellet will have active
charge of the work, Captain II. N. East
man, regimental quartermaster, will
aume general supervision. He will be
assisted by Lieutenant W. P. Springer,
L. T. Huntington and Charles Steele,
Lieutenant II. llanlry will decide the
location of the building. Captain 1 !.
Stanley haa been placed in charge of the
regimental exchange and haa been made
athletic director. Lieutenant II. II. Horn
lster of O company will be acting cap
tain of that company.
Corporal Clifford K. M. Gregory of
Northfleld, who wai left at a Chicago
hospital when the regiment came South,
reported for duty yesterday. Gregory
received a royal welcome. He is a crack
ahot. He atood first on the regimental
ritle team in the competition at the
state ramp in Florida last year.
A special company of 10tl ment, made
up of the recruit who have had little
target practice, waa organized venter- j "
day. The company la composed of de-ij-''
tachment from various conipaniea. 1 1. 1
ia Col. Reeves' wish thnt the men become
familiar a soon as possible with the way
of "getting" the enemv. Captain C. E.
Pell has charge of this company.
To show the spirit of the men from
Vermont, one of them, Paul M. Cleveland,
traveled from California here to join hw
regiment. He paid all his own expense
for the trip.
HOLDING FAST
TO THEIR GAINS
French Repulsed Several
German Attacks on Mo
nacu Farm positions
ARRESTED FOR THEFT.
AND CONSOLIDATED
NEWLY-WON GROUND
Infantry Fire Put Down the
German Assaults on Right
Bank of the Meuse
Paris, Aug. 3. North of the river
Sotnme several German attempts against
trench positions on Motiactt farm were
repuUed, it U officially announced; and
Krrnch troops have organised new posi
tiona between Monartt farm and Ham
wood.
Several violent German counter-at-tacka
on trenches taken by the French
on the right bank of the Meuse, the
statement adds, were everywhere stopped
by a aereen of infantry tire. Since Au-
net 1 the trench have captured 1,000
ermana on tun hank of the river.
Charles Shea Accused of Stealing la East
Dorset.
Manchester, Aug. 3. Charles She ia
in jail at Bennington charged with the
thclt of f-. from Joseph Ilealam of hal
Dorset. The man came from Hartford,
Conn., about a month ago and hud been
employed at the Moonev wood working
establishment at Kast Dorset, bourdiny
at the home of Joseph Ilealam.
While Mrs. Hen In m waa absent
from the house yesterday it is alleged
that Shea secured the money and then
walked to Manchester. When arrested
here by Deputy Sheriff J. D. Purdy he
had a railroad ticket for Hennington.
Shea waa arraigned, State'a Attorney
F. C. Archibald apttearing for the state.
He pleaded guilty to the charge and wan
taken to the Hennington jail where he
will be held for the December term of
Bennington county court. When arrest
ed the stolen money was found in his
possession.
CITY COUNCIL VOTES
FOR A NEW TRUCK
FOR WATER DEIT.
PASSING AUTOS
LOCKED WHEELS;
ONE WRECKED
ONE ZEPPELIN WAS HIT.
SHRAPNEL EXPLODED ON SHIP.
Fourteen Men Jumped Into Sea and
Swam for Safety.
New York, Aug. 3 One hundred shrap
nel shells exploded during a fire on the
tour-masted schooner George . hlzey
however, was a fireman who was struck
on the arm by a shell fragment.
Fourteen men who were working on
the schooner jumped overboard and swam
to safety when the bombardment began.
The fire spread to the four-masted
schooner George M. Grant, owned by the
Benedict Munson company of New Ha
ven, but the damage done on the vessel
wag slight. The Klzey and the Grant
were moored close together.
The Elzey was picked up adrift last
Sunday in New York hay after the ex
plosion on Black Tom island where she
had been moored and was towed to Er
basin. Her cargo consisted of ammuni
tion and salt.
The loss on the Elr.ey was estimated at
several thousand dollars.
London, Aug. 3. Roger Casement, a former British knight, was
hanged this morning in Tentonville jail for high treason. Case
ment was convicted of conspiring to cause an armed revolt in Ire
land and with having sought German aid to that end.
Two hours before the execution, a crowd of men, women andjin Erie iuin late, yesterday causing
children gathered before the prison gates. Twenty minutes before -t
Casement mounted the scaffold, the great prison Den commenced
to toll, and the sound was greeted with cheers, mingled with
groans. At 9 o'clock the crowd had swollen to such proportions
that it extended for two blocks from the prison front.
At one minute after 9 o'clock, a single stroke of the big bell
announced that the trap had been sprung. It was the signal for a
mocking, jeering yell from the crowd, which suddenly died away
into a dead silence.
Casement met his death with calm courage, according to the wit
nesses. Early in the morning, two priests of the Roman Catholic
church administered the last rites in his cell. Shortly afterwards,
the little procession, headed by the clergymen, proceeded toward
the execution shed. The priests recited the litany for the dying,
Casement responding in low tones : "Lord have mercy on my soul."
As the party reached the gallows shed, the special executioner
approached Casement and quickly pinioned him. Casement mount
ed the gallows steps firmly, and as he stepped on the trap he com
mended his spirit to God. A moment later the lever was pulled.
Immediately after the trap was sprung, the prison engineer and
physician descended into the pit, and Casement was pronounced
dead. According to the custom, his body will be buried in quick
lime in the prison yard.
Outside the prison walls as the execution was in progress, a
group of SO Irish men and women fell, on their knees and with
bowed heads remained silently praying for the repose of the soul
of their dead fellow-countryman.
Casement showed not the slightest concern over his fate. He ate
well and chatted freely with two wardens in his cell before the
arrival of the priests. One of his attendants said that his over
powering love for God and Ireland was most striking. According
to this statement, the. last words of the condemned man, apart
from his prayers, were : "I die for my country."
Father McCarrell, who attended Casement during the hanging,
said he met death like a brave and old man. He said he found
Casement to be a beautiful character. Father McCarrell said that
just before the black cap was adjusted, Casement stood forward,
boldly erect, and said in a clear, slow voice: "Into Thy hands, O
Lord, I commend my spirit." Then, still standing at his full
height, he added: "Jesus, receive my soul."
Then the trap was sprung.
At the inquest the doctor said that
Casement was sane. His solicitor made
a plea that the body be handed over to
relatives. He said that the authorities
had refused and that it was a monstrous
act of indecency.
Honored with knighthood a title since
taken from him by King George's order
for his many years of service for Great
Britain as consul and consul general,
Eoger Casement assumed leadership at
a period of his country's crisis in the
recent Irish rebellion, the plans for
which were laid while Casement was in
Berlin, where he was reported to have
In Washington a resolution was intro
duced in the Senate which would have
President Wilson intercede with the Brit
ish government, and numerous petitions
received at the White House from many
sources asking that a plea for clemency
be cabled. The Senate resolution was
not adopted. President Wilson took no
official action! .In England, the Man
chester Guardian and a number of. other
papers pleaded for mercy and petitions
asking for a reprieve were circulated in
London. Adherents of John Redmond
forwarded to Premier Asquith a petition
BY UNANIMOUS VOTE.
House Passed Bill For Relief of Flood
' Sufferers In Sewn States.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 3. The reso
lution appropriating $540,000 for relief
of flood sufferers in seven southern states
passed Tuesday by the Senate was passed
by the House late yesterday afternoon
by unanimous vote after .Republican
Leader Mann who blocked consideration.
earlier in the day had withdrawn his
objection.
The resolution provides that the money
shall be distributed in North and South
Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, Al
abama and Mississippi, at the discretion
of the war department for relief supplies
during the next 60 days, for employment
of destitute flood victims during the next
00 days and to buy seeds for food crops.
NATIVE-OF GRANVILLE.
Wat Seen Traveling Seaward Badly Dam
aged.
London, Aug. 3. German airships have
again flown over the eastern counties of
Kngland, dropping bombs. An official
communication jut issued says:
"A number of airships crossed the
roast of the eastern counties shortly
after midnight. Their objective has not
yet been definitely ascertained as the
raid ia still proceeding. Some bombs were
dropped at various places.
Another official communication issued
early this morning says:
"The raid appears to have been car
ried out by six or seven airships. A con
siderable number of bombs are reported
to have been dropped at various placet
on the eastern and southeastern counties
but no definite reports have been re
ceived.. No military damage has as yet
been reported.
"Many anti-aircraft guns were in ac
tion and at least one of the airships is
reported to have been hit."
A Zeppelin was seen early this morning
traveling seaward badly damaged, ac
cording to the Exchange Telegraph's cor
respondent in a southeast coast towu.
BRITISH ALSO DIG IN.
Are Consolidating Jhe Ground Won and
Building Connecting Trenches.
London, Aug. 3. "During the night we
continued the work of consolidating the
ground which we had gained and in open
ing communication trenches, says the
British official statement.
Charles Gadateo Badly Injured North of
St. Johnsbury Last Evening, When
His Car Went Over an
Embankment.
St. Johnsbury, Aug. 3. Charlea Gada
tee suffered a fractured rib, fractured
scapula and possible internal injuries
when his automobile containing five pas
sengers crashed through a fence and over
a MX-foot embankment about a nulo
north of this village last night. Mrs.
Gadatce and son received minor injuries
hut two girls in the car escaped unhurt.
The accident waa caused by one car at
tempting to pass and locking wheels.
KILLED BY AUTO.
Enos M. Clough Victim at Laconia, N. H.,
Last Night.
Laconia, N. II., Aug. 3. Enos M.
Clough, aged 74. flagman at the Boston
A Maine railroad crossing at Black brook,
died at the I-aconia hospital last night
aa a result of being struck by an auto
mobile on I nion avenue, near Mark
street, laet evening.
Mr. Clough got off a trolley car to go
to his home, 3'W Mechanic street, and
was half wnv to the sidewalk when a
touring car driven and owned by Clarence
K. Gardiner ot 4D4 Greene avenue,
Brooklyn, struck him.
Mr. Gardiner rushed the injured man
to the hospital.
WEDS CHINAMAN.
NATIVE OF WATERF0RD.
negotiated an understanding with the j sipnod by six bishops, 26 members of
rarnament and at other persons, includ
ing a number of educators.
Pope Benedict interceded in Casement's
behalf, endeavoring to obtain grace for
lierman imperial authorities
British naval supremacy brought an
abortive close to Casement's plans. The
German tramp steamship on which there
Rev. Nathan Willia Wilder Had Many
Vermont Pastorates.
Watertown, Conn., Aug. 3. Rev. Na
than Willis Wilder, aged 81, is dead here,
where he had lived in retirement ' from
the Methodist ministry for some time.
He was the son of Willis and Laura
Huston Wilder.
He was born in Granville, Vt. He
prepared for college in Newbury, Vt. He
lad been stationed in Windsor, Suffield,
Watertown and Waterville, Conn., and
Poultney, Williston, Woodstock, Bellows
Falls, Swanton, Alburg, Essex, Fairfax,
Morrisville, Newburg and Derby, Vt. He
leaves a wife and a daughter", Mrs,
George N. Gnswold, with whom he lived
and four sons, Frank W., Henry H., Ed
mund and George 1
James J. Doaagan Was Long in Granite
Industry at Concord, N. H.
Concord, N. IE., Aug. 3. .Tames J.
Donagan, for many years prominently
identified with the granite industry in
Concord, died vesterdav. He was born
in Waterford, Vt., April 28, 1833, but
had resided in Concord for more than
half a century, representing his ward in
the legislature and serving as a member
of the citv board of assessors.
In the period of his active life he was
generally known as the mayor of ros
terville," the section of the city in which
he resided, and annual addresses, pur
porting to give his views on local, state
and national issues, brought him consul
erable fame. He is survived by a daugh
ter, Mrs. William J. Sullivan of this city,
and by two sisters, Mrs. Julia Gleason of
Providence, R, I., and Mrs. Margaret
Donnelly of Attleboro, Muss.
TALK OF THE TOWN
was transported an armed expedition i him from the British government, influ
from Germany nearly to the west coast ! ential Irish Nationalists having' nrTl
of Ireland in April of this year was
blown up by its own crew when the lat
ter foresaw that it was inevitable that
the blockading Knglish warships would
capture it. The crew were made prison
ers. ' The tramp had been convoyed from
Kiel by a German submarine, from which
Casement and a companion landed on
Irish soil, where they were taken into
custody before their plans matured.
In May, Casement was given a prelim
inary hearing and wa committed for
trial on the charge of high treason. Late
in June the trial was begun. Casement
pleading not guilty and uttering a denial
that he had worked in Germany's inter
ests and that be had accepted German
pol l aa a bribe.
The court's verdict was guilty, and the
sentence of death by hanging wa. after
appeal by bis counsel, confirmed by the
court of criminal appeal, latf in July.
The London pre generally approved
the fate Uvrally fUed for Casement, but
in Amerka persistent efforts were made
to tare the noted prisoner from death.
upon the pontiff that the prisoner was
noi a traitor but was inspired by Irish
patriotism.
Roger Casement, prior to the war, es
tablished a reputation through his in
vesti,iition of the Congo nd fvmth
American rubber atrocities committed on
natives by Belgian and British rubber
hunters. The then Sir Roper headed a
commission of inquiry which brought
about reforms. In 191.1 he became ac
tively identified with the organisation of
the Irish national volunteers. He was in
the I'nited States when the war beiran
ami addressed an open letter to the Irish
press advising Irishmen to remain neu
tral. In October. 1914. he went to Nor
way and thence to Berlin, w hence en me
the news that startled the world Case
ment was plotting what his country
looked upon as high treason. His friends,
recalling bis year of service in Africa
and South America, claimed for him
GIRL-MOTHER ACCUSED.
Aged 16, She Is Charged with Drowning
Her Child.
Waterville, Me., Aug. 3. Sadie M.
Strickland, aged HI, was bound over to
the grand jury without bail yesterday
on the charge of murder, to which she
pleaded not guilty. It was alleged that
she drowned her five-month-old son in
Messalonskee stream, near her home at
Fairfield Center, Tuesday afternoon be
cause the father of the child had refused
to marry her. Its body vm found yes
terday afternoon a short time after she
was taken into custody.
IS MARRIED AGAIN.
Mrs. Joseph Chamberlain Now Wife of
Canon of Westminster.
London, Aug. 3. Mrs. Joseph Cham
berlain, widow of the late statesman, and
Rev. William Carnagie, canon of West
minster, were married to-day. Mrs.
Chamberlain was formerly a Boston,
.Mass., girl.
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
Montpelier Frait Dealer and Burlington
Seamstress File.
Rutland. Aug. 3. Two petitions in
bankruptcy were filed with I'nited States
Clerk F. S. Tlatt yesterday. Thilin J
Karkandiea of Montpelier, a fruit deal
er, has liabilities of (1413 and assets of
$.125 of which f73 is claimed exetniu-
that the tropical mn had unbalanced him jChristine A. Sousie of Burlington, a
mentally. Casement wa l-rn on Sept. seamstress, has liabilitiea of fJTl and aa
I, 1H4. aU 4 iiW, awl crj.
Miss Oliva Bianchi of Milford, Mass.,
is passing several days in the city as a
guest in the home of Charles Bianchi of
Summer street.
Rev. J. B. McGarry of St. John's Ro
man Catholic church of Northfield and
Rev. L. A. Vcxina of Vergennes were
Barre visitors yesterday.
A touring car from Fredericton, N. B.,
utilized by several young men for a trip
through New England, including the
White mountains, stopped in Barre to
day. Edmund Loranger of Summer street, a
1916 graduate of Spaulding high school,
left the city this forenoon for South
bridge, Mass., where he has secured em
ployment. Mrs. Pheebe Kittridge of Brooklyn, N.
Y., and her daughter, Mrs. Florence
Moody, "are passing several days in the
city as the guests of Mrs. Kittridge's
sister, Mrs. Ella Joslyn of South Main
street.
Before Assistant Judge G. H. Dale of
Waterbury a private inquest was started
in the council chamber at city hall this
morning. States Attorney . h. Glea
son appeared for the state and during
the forenoon a number of witnesses were
called to make return on subpo-nas dis
tributed by Deputy Sheriff George L.
Morris. It waa thought that the inquest
might continue until to-morrow and pos
sibly through the remainder of the week.
The nature of the inquot was not given
out.
City court honored the request of the
respondent for a jury trial in the case of
State vs. Jacob .lacouson ot (iranite
street this morning by continuing the
hearing until ometime early id the
coming week, the date to be fixed to
Boston Woman Bride of Oriental from
Barre, Mass, at Bellows Falls.
Bellows Falls, Aug. 3. A marriage li
cense was issued here yesterday to Ar
thur K. Hatton, a fruit dealer of 16 War
ren street, Somerville, and Helena W.
McCarthy of 27S Cedar street, Somer
ville.
Samuel Lee, a Chinese laundryman of
Barre, Mass., was issued a license and
was married to May Martin of ifii West
'edar street, Boston. She formerly lived
in Charlestown, Mass., and her parents
were Charles and Miranda Nichols Mar
tin. Returns of license to the town clerk's
office show that 127 marriage licenses
were issued here during the month of
July. Five were to local couples. There
were 102 licenses issued in June, and
since Jan. 1 there have been 473 wed
dings in town, the greater share by far
being out of the state couples.
During July Justice O. M. George per
formed 37 marriages; Rev. J. . Lhes
bro, pastor of the Baptist church, 33;
Rev. Seymour 11. ismitn, .Hetnodist, in;
Rev. V.'E. Blagbrough, Universalist, 13;
Rev. A. C. Wilson, Episcopal, 11; Rev.
K. A. Mason, retired Baptist, 6; Justice
Walter C. Hadlcy, 2; Judge T. E. O'Brien,
2.
But It Was Finally Decided in Special
Meeting Last Night to Delay Pur
chase Pending Examination of
Specification! by AIL
A hurriedly railed special meeting at
the council chamber last night afforded
the councilors just the opportunity they
were seeking to jam through enough leg
islation for the purchase of another nio
tor truck. From 8 o'clock until 10 most
of the talking was done by Chairman
Healv of the water committee, who was
ready with his vote when the time came
to use it. Only an amendment pinned
onto the motion to purchase a truck pre
vented the council from authorising the
mavor and the water chairman to use
their own discretion in buying a three
quarters-ton truck. Those who favored
it purchase at the regular meeting on
Tuesday night again urged the immedi
ate need of a truck for the, water depart
ment and advocated its purchase without
further investigation. Aldermen Key
nolds, Rossi and Shurtleff seemed as
much optmsed as ever.
I'nless a number of guesses are al
lowed to go astray, the next addition to
the city s motorized vehicles will be
car of the G. M. C. type, to be purchased
for $1,300 or therealnrnts. Members of
the water committee stated that the
truck had been examined by them in
Burlington and had the committee's ap
proval. Whereupon Alderman Shurtleff
reminded the council that he was the
second member of the committee and
hadn't so much as heard of the truck
plan until the dav previous, to say noth
ing of examining it in Burlington. Work
to be done at the Grange reservoir and
the extension of water mains just now
under way were given as reasons justi
fying the purchase. Aldermen Rossi and
Reynolds stood pat for further investi
gating a number of trucks before closing
a deal for any one type.
On Alderman Healy's motion authoriz
ing the mayor and the chairman of the
water committee to make the purchase,
Aldermen Glysson, Healy, Bruce, and
Mayor Gordon voted in the affirmative,
the opposition being made up of Alder
men SliurtlefT. Rossi and Reynolds.
When Alderman Rossi moved that the
water committee be instructed to bring
in specifications of the proposed car, in
order that some of the members might
know what they are to purchase, the mo
tion took the form of an amendment to
the previous motion and carried by a
-ote of five to two. Aldermen GIvsson
and Bruce voting against the amend
ment. Delivery of the truck is held in
abeyance pending the display of the
specifications.
DODGING
CAPTURE
AT jEA
Submersible utschland.
Passed Out" of Protection
of Three-Mile Limit With
out Incident Last Night as
Her Captain and Crew
Gave Three Cheers for
America and Americans
WAS ACCOMPANIED
BY ONE TUG BOAT
The Newspaper Men's Yacht
Seemed to Give Consider
able Uneasiness to Captain
Koenig as It Kept Pace
with the Departing Ship
Submersible Was Making
Fast Time
ENTHUSIASTIC AUDIENCES
SENTENCED FOR FORGERY.
Agent Claimed Notes Were Payment on
Ranges He Had Sold.
Burlineton. Aug. 3. Guy William An
derson of Essex, who has been confined
in county jail for the past month await
ing trial" on the charge of forgery, plead
ed guilty yesterday in city court to an
. . . i i . . . T : 1. .. .,..
inrorniaiion mcu aauist uwn ov cmw; o
Attorney T. E. Hopkins and was sen
tenced to not less than six nor more than
12 months at the state prison at Wind
sor.
Anderson, who was formerly employed
by the Wrought Iron Range company
of St. Louis, Mo., forged two promissory
notes on July 1 and turned them in to
the company, claiming that they were
in payment for two ranges which he had
sold. The notes aggregated $(0. and An
derson's commission amounted to about
$15. The ranges were afterwards recov
ered by the company. Anderson's homo
was formerly in Kingston, Ont., and he
has a wife and one child who are living
in Robin, Canada.
Attended Performances of Chautauqua
Yesterday Afternoon and Evening,
Enthusiastic audiences attended the
first day's programs of Community
Chautauqua at the seminary campus.
The afternoons performance was well
Attended, and the American quartet gave
the program. Mr. Conrad's sketches were
well applauded, and his speed it. coloring,
together with his humorous remarks,
caused great amusement. Mr. Gilbert's
readings were also well received.
In the evening e.very seat was occu
pied, and the quartet gave another enter
taining hour, followed by a lecture by
Lee Francis Lybarger of the Philadelphia
bar, whose statements and humorous an
ecdotes held his audience for an hour
and 40 minutes, his topic being "A Com
munity Chautauqua.
This afternoon Goeffrpy O'Hara and
Wing Tabor Wetmore will entertain, fid
lowed by a lecture in the evening by
Arthur Delroy, president of the New
York Psychic club and a lecturer of wide
experience. Mr. Dolroy exposes many of
the fake hypnotic and palmist's tricks
and is wonderfully skillful in character
reading in hand writing. Mr. O'Hara
will show how Victor records are made
and will accompany some of his own
pieces.
INTERMENT AT ELMW00D.
And Services for Mrs. Mariah Tilden
Were Held at 8 North Street.
Funeral services for Mrs. Mariah
(Cook) Tilden, widow of Judge Harvey
Tilden, whose death occurred at her
home, 8 North street, Monday afternoon.
were held at the house Wednesday after
noon at 2:30 o'clock, Rev. J. B. Reardon,
pastor of the Universalist church, ofli-
j dating. At the services were many
friends of the deceased, including a num
ber of people of the older generation in
Barre. The bearers were: C. W. Averi!!.
R. S. Currier, E. W. Bisbee and George
N. Tilden. Interment was made in the
family lot in Elinwood cemetery.
SUICIDE WAS VERM0NTER.
Otis J. Chase, Who Killed Himself at Ox
ford, Mass, Was Born in Wardsboro.
Oxford, Mass., Aug. 3. Brooding over
his failing health and the illness of a
son in Worcester is believed to have been
CHARLES FASOLA'S FUNERAL.
Was Held Wednesday Afternoon Burial
in Catholic Cemetery.
The funeral of Charles Fasola, a Barre
granitecutter, whose death at his home
14 Third street. Tuesday morning fol
lowed a long illness, was held at the
house Wednesday afternoon at 4 o clock
There were many floral tributes and a
large number of men from the Presbrey
Covkendall plant, where the deceased
, tx . Aai.un fnr 4l,A C 1 1 i f. 1 . 1 1. in,B l-flttn.r'j I I ' ...
T "";- 'bearers were: Joseph Movant, V. Ires
tini. A. Baruffi. J. I'aetta. L. Miro and
J. Frontini. Interment was made in the
afternoon of Otis J. Chase, aged fi7. for
Jthe past four years an attendant to John
E. Kimball, a paralytic.
Chase slashed bis right wrist while in
a small room off that in which Mr. Kim
ball lay helpless in bed. Weak from the
loss of blood, the wounded man dragged
himself into the next room and in his
frenzy pulled Mr. Kimball to the floor.
He was found lying dead across the body
of Mr. Kimball, who was unable to help
himself. A doctor who was called said
he had been dead at least two hours.
Mr. Chase has a wife and eon and a
married daughter, Mrs. Eugene Watkins,
Catholic cemetery on Beckley street.
GRANGE LECTURERS CONFER.
morrow. Jacobeon is cnargea wu!i wite- i living in Worcester. He was a native f
nder a technical breach of t he i Ward:
beating un
, i . : . . . .
peace charge ana n irmnni . .. iioarj
as his counsel. Mr. Hoar's absence in j
Chelsea to-day and the absence of t;ran
dsboro, Vt.
12,000 MINERS STRUCK.
New England Men are Meeting in Bur
lington. Burlington. Aug. 3.- The third annual
New Etigl.ind grange lecturers' confer-
enee opened us sessions nun uie fiiu-
college of agriculture yesterday after
noon. There was a very grainymg at
tendance, 61 grangers, or over one-quarter
of the state grange, being repre
sented besides a lrte number from the
other New Enclan I states. The first an
nual conference was held with the Mas
Juror William Wishirt, who was in Bur-1 Emnloves of Asbestos Companv at Sker. irhusetts Agricultural college, ami tne
insrton on business, precluded the po- i v,-i,. jy n r. . -conference lat jear was in .ew tump-
sibihtv of making definite arrangements ' Y ' jshtre. Due lariHy to the effort, of r..
for the hearing. Jaeobson. who was ar-1 Quebec. Aug. 3. Twelve hundred tnin- ! H. Hal'ett, lecturer ot t.e Vermont
rented Tuedav, is at liberty under hail, era employed in the herd Abeto mints (Mate granse, the conference as bronpnt
Don't forcet the dance in How land hall near Sherbrooke struck to-day for more this year to the Vermont Mate agricul-
.Saturdaj- night. Carroll's orchestra. ad. waj-. tural college.
Norfolk, Va., Aug. 3. Somewhere in
the Atlantic ocean to-day the German
merchantman submarine Deutachland and
Hied warships are believed to be playing;
hide and seek as the undersea boat speeds
homeward after passing out of the Vir
ginia cape last night.
The final dash to sea was without in
cident. One of the last acts of Captain
Koenig and his crew was to stand on the
deck of the submarine and give three
cheers for America and the American
people. She was accompanied to the
capes by the tug Thomas F. Timmina,
which had convoyed her down the bay
from Baltimore and by a newspaper
boat.
Her departure to sea followed an 18-
mile dash through the lower Chesapeake
bay. After proceeding slowly most of
the way down she increased her power
at 6:30 and reached the capes just after
dusk. None of the allied cruisers was
visible as she passed through.
I he trip of the submarine and the con
voying tug down Chesapeake bay from
Baltimore was started under ideal condi
tions. Not a cloud was in sight as the
submarine increased her speed to 1?
knots an hour soon after clearing Balti
more harbor. The tug fell behind imme
diately and by dark was 500 yards to the
Btern.
The tug apparently had great difficulty
n keeping up with the Deutschland.
I Dark flames spurted from her funnels,
bowing that the stokers aboard were
keeping all the steam possible in her
boilers. Then the wind freshened and
dark clouds began to roll in from the
horizon. Soon the tug was pitching and
rolling on the choppy sea, her running
lights dipping up and down and the
spray flying back from her bow.
The submarine ahead, a brilliant light
shining from a lamp attached to the top
of her periscope and green and red lights
hanging below on the conning tower,
plowed steadily through the seas on an
even keel.
Bay steamers passing up and down had
their attention attracted to the subma
rine by the brilliance of her lights, espe
cially that on the periscope. They cast
rays of their searchlights on the sub-,
mersible, looking her over from stem to
stern. As each of the vessels recognized
the submarine a salute of three whistlo
blasts was blown. The submarine an
swered each salute with her own whistle.
In the rays of the searchlight members
of the crew could be plainly seen walk
ing up and down the after deck. In the
conning tower was Captain Paul Koenig.
master of the vessel. At ins side stood
the pilot.
Soon before midnight the seas became
still heavier. Under the glare of search
lights it was seen that waves were break
ing over the bow of the vessel and wash- .
ing the entire forward part. Occasional
ly the conning tower and the light on the
periscope would be enveloped in a shower
of salt spray.
At 1:30 while passing Solomons is
land, the last of the vessels with search
lights was passed. By that time all the
members of the crew except two had dis
appeared from the deck. One of these
men -was standing well forward, a lead '
line for sounding in his hand and the
other was at the stern. Captain Koenig
wars in the conning tower, garbed in
slickers.
In the broad channel against the sea
that were running the submarine had to
increase the speed of her engines to
maintain her pace, occasionally the sharp
staccato of her exhaust was blown across
the water bv the wind and a stream of
sparks spurted from her stern with the
grayish smoke from the powerful en
gines. 1 no limmins leu oenintt more
than once and the submarine had to
slow down a trifle to wait for her.
Those aboard the submarine and the
tug apparently were worried bv the
presence of a newspaper yacht, a speedy '
craft, which kept up with the vessels
ithout difficulty. The tug especially
kept close watch on the yacht and was
nuick to take tip a position between it
and the submarine whenever the oppor
tunity presented itself.
Whether she submerged before reach
ing the three-mile limit is unknown. The
two accompany ir.g boats only know that
she disappeared unharmed and that to all
appearance she bad a clean field ahead
(Continued on eighth page.)
