Esabise 181-Voum 4 -
V&M M
TPlE PIC IENS STIL__
1OFFICIAL PAPER 0F PICKENS COUNTY SUBSCRIPTI
Establi~ ed l87l- olu m e 46PICKENS* S. C-9 AUGUST 3, 191' u b r 1
First Gun Fired In
Race for Congress
Candidates for congress in the Third
District opened their regular speaking
-campaign in Pickens last Thursday and
were greeted by an audience of about
600 people, who gave close and respect
ful hearing to each speaker. All the
ca'hdidates were present except Mr.
Aiken, who was in Washington. He
expects to join the campaigners in Mc
Cormick county this week.
There was no demonstration by the
crowd and it was impossible to tell
which candidate was the favorite. The
order was well-nigh perfect and typical
of Pickens county people.
The meeting was called to order in
the court house at 10.30 o'clock by
Chairman G. F. Norris. No minister of
the gospel was preshnt and the meeting
was opened without prayer. Each
speaker was allowed thirty minutes in
which to present his claims and the
meeting adjourned at 12.45.
The first speaker was A. H1. Dagnall,
who said he was no stranger here, but
felt at home. SaW he was making the
race on his own merits and would con
duct his campaign free from personali
ties. Attacked .Congressman Aiken's
record and said It looked like something
was wrong when a man had been in
congress fourteen years and had not
become a najional figure and was n6t
even chairman of a comnittee. Doesn't
believe Aiken big enough man for the
job. In favor of a rural credit bill with
not so much red tape. as the one re
cently passed. Believes in economic
.preparedness -as well as .a navy equal to
any other nation and believes prepared
ness prevents war. Wants cotton tax
money which was collected by the U. S.
government just after the war .returned
to the old Confederate soldiers. Would
make intermarriage of whites and blacks
illegal in Districtof .Columbia. Believes
in civil service rule and if elected will
treat everybody right.
By the time .Mr. :Dagnall had finished
his speech the court house wouldl not
hold the people -and the meeting was
adjourned to the court house grove.
F. H. Domineck was the . second
speaker. Said he wasn't born and
.didn't go to school in Pickens, but felt
at home here, and mentioned the good
-vote he got in this county two years
ago when he ran for congress. Accused
Dagnall of.claiming every county in the
districtas his home. Says this is a great
district, containing 30 per cent of the
manufacturing interests of the state,
and should be represented by a man of
ability. He lambasted Mr. Aiken's
recorti and polities and said he had done
nothing of importance since he had been
in congress and hadn't even voted on
half the bills introduced. Said Mr. Aiken
claimed to be a -farmer, but had never
been put.on an agricultural committee.
lie (Aiken) had been in public office
since he was nineteen years old, had
drawn .about $120,000 in salary and mile
age and had done nothing to show for
it. W. W. Bradley drew $1,500 a y.ear
as Aiken's private secretary, but hadn't
been in Washington six months during
the last twelve years. Said Bradley
was also trustee of Clemson college and
Assistant .tate Bank Examiner. Mr.
Bradley waz ,in the audience. Mtr.
.Dominick said he had no special issues
.to discuss, bu~t was a Democrat and
would support Democratic measures
including- rural cr~edit bill and prepared..
ness. Said HI. C. Tillman's father had
been senator twenty years, his uncle
was in congress for mnany years, and he
thought this dlistrict should be repre
sented by new blood. Told of his record
as Assistant Attorney-General.
.ohn A. H-orton was the third speaker
and caused some laughter .at Mr. Dom
inick's expense. Said after hearing
Dominick speak he wondered if the
assistant attorney-general ever let the
attorney-general come into the office.
Expected that A ttorney-General Peeples
had something to do with the good
showing of his office. Said the rural
credit bill recently passed by congress
was inadlequate and would do the small
farmer no good. In favor of the gov
ernment lending money direct tn the
farmers at low rate of Interest and or:
long time. Said farmers are the bed
rock upon which our government rests
and the government should do more ?or
them. The reason the common people
have gotten no more legislation in their
favor is because they do not elect men
to office who are in sympathy with
It them. Says there are too manylawyers
in gr law-making bodies-and when they
-accept big fees from corporations they
naturally lean toward them instead of
the common people. Said he was the
only man in the race who had over ac
tually worked on -the rarm for his living
,\and earned his way by the sweat of his
- \brow. Is in sympathy with the masses
,.of the people and knows their needs
s ~/~ and .trials. Said the other candidates
had curried Mr.- Aiken pretty well and
he believed he needed it. Accused
Aiken of favoring immigration until he
found it unpopular and then flopping to
the other side, Believes in Democratic
measures and will give everybody a
square deal.
H. C. Tillman was the fourth and last
speaker, and said he was not ashamed
of being a Tillman. Said some one had
mentioned tie fact that his father and
other kinsmen had been office-holders
for a long time, but that when the Till
mans enlisted in the Mdxican and Civil
wars nobody said there were too many
TilImans then. When Mr. Tillman men
tioned Dominick's name a voice in the
audience said "Believe I'll vote for
him." "Do it," quickly retorted Till
man, "and you'll be sorry of it when
you see what a sorry congressman he
makes." Is not running on his daddy's
coat tail. Said Mr. Aiken is the only
man who has been a member of con
gress fourteen years and is not one of
the big committees nor even chairman
of a small committee. Stands for a
rural credit system. Believes in a safe
and conservative preparedness and ex
plaired his plan of establishing a mili
tary school in every congressional dis
trict in the United States instead of
keeping a large standing army. Schools
should also have agricultural, textile
and business courses. Would not be a
pork-barrel congressman, but would de
nand full value for every dollar of
public money spent. Congratulated
Pickens county upon its educaional
strides. Will do his best if elected.
Mr. Tillman showed some of the old
time Tillman fire in parts of his speech
and, fron an oratorical point of view,
made the best speech of the Pay.
4211 Voters in Pickens Covnty
According to the club rolls there are
260 more voters in Pickens county this
year than there were in 1914. The en
rollment by clubs for 1914 and 19116 is
as follows:
1914 1916
Six Mile.. ..--- . ...... 211 266
Easley Mill------------- 138 141
Alice Mill ---------------6 56 76
Glenwood ...------------ 134 173
Easley ------------------ 60 .T27
Shady Grove ------------59 53
Easley Mill No. 2 -------- 69 56
Flat fbock --------------- 83 86
Croseell --------------- 63 -63
Isaqueena Mill ----------- 103 130
Pickens -..--------------- 653 -683
Peters Creek -----. .55 66
Pickens Mill- ....- 83 86
Antioch---------------- 57 57
Praters --------------- 89 98
Cateechee -------------- 125 125
Calhoun.. ----------..---- 115 134
Holly Springs------------ 66 61
Cross Plains --------- 103 92
Pumpkintown ------------ 110 127
Mile Creek ----..---------- 74 101
Central ----------------. 248 240
Julian's Store. - -----.. -.55 57
Looper's Gin___- .-..-65 71
Norris .......... .....-103 96
Pleasant Grove_ ---------- 63 65
Liberty ---------------- 314 410
Dacusville ...- .--..-91 81
Totaj------.. ... ... 3945 4211
Pickens County Campaign
The Democratic Executive Conunittee
of Pickens county met in the court
house Tuesday and made final arrange
ments for the county campaign and
election.
There has been some misunderstand
ing about the county commissioners'
race. There will be no race for county
commissioner this year, the present in
cumbents holding over two more years.
Managers of election were appointed
mnd the list will appear in next week's
>ap~er.
Following is the schedule of county
campaign meetings:
Central, Thursday, August 10.
Liberty, Saturday, August 12, 2 p.m.
Pumpkintown, Tuesday, August 16.
Pickens, Thursday, August 17.
Easley, Saturday, August 19, 2 p. mn.
Candidates for solicitor in this district
will also speak at the same time and
places, except at Easley, where they
have already spoken.
The last day for candidates to file
pledges will be August 9.
The sheriff has collected $1,554.09 tax
executions recently.
Cole L. Bilease, candidate for gover
nor. has been invited and accepted the
invitation to speak at Pickens August
21. More dlefinite announcement will
appear in next wveek's paper.
T1he price of Ford automobiles took i
slump August 1st. T[he price of the
touring car is now $390 delivered, and
the roadster $365 delivered. This Is $80
off the former price of the touring car
andl $15 fT the price of the roadster.
.Jas. P. Carey, Jr., gave $1.06 to the
Wilson-Marshall campaign fund silnce
last week's list of contributors was
published, making $31.00 the people of
Pickens have contributed to this fund.
Any one wishing to contribute should
do so at once.
To the Citizens
of Pickens Count
From recent reports coming to me, .
feel that it is my dugy to say a fev
words in self defense.
To start with, I feel sure that thes<
reports are circulated for the purpos4
of doing melpolitical injury, but I wist
it clearly understood that I do not la3
any of the blame on any of my oppon
ents in the race, because I know then
all to be my personal friends, and higI
above taking advantage of me in an3
way.
There are very wrong impressions be.
ing given out concerning the Hunters
License Law-such as that a man car
not hunt on his own land or allow hi6
tenants to do so without a license. This
is not according to the law at all. A
man can, as yon may see from a sec
tion of the act printed hereivith, not
only hunt and allow his tenants to
hunt on his lands, but he can give per
mission to any resident of the county to
hunt on his lands, and this permit acts
as a license and also frees the hunter
from liability for trespass, which a
license would not do. Not many land
owners would refuse to allow persons
who are capable of handling a gun in a
safe and sane way to hunt on their
lands, and certainly those who can not
safely handle firearms should not be al
lowed to do so. It has been against the
law for years for one to hunt on the
lands of others without permission, and
the only change is that this permission
must be "written" and should be in the
possession of the hunter while hunting.
And now to the real object of this
law:
I regret very much to refer to the ne
gro, but in many sections of our state
there are hordes of them who wander
around with their guns trespassing and
endangering the lives of our women and
children with their reckless shooting.
I recall an instance in our own good
county where an awful crime was com
mitted and which resulted in a lynching,
because an irresponsible negro was
wandering around with a gun, instead
of being at work, as he probably would
have been if this law had been in force.
Now, another wrong impression con
cerning this law is that it has some
thing to do with fishing, and some would
lead you to believe that I am reipons
ible for the "WHOLE BUSINESS."
Fishing is not mentioned in this act, and
I am in no way responsible for any of
the fishing laws.
To sum up the matter, the law was
passed in 1915, and was statewide with
the exception of several counties and
among the exceptions your delegation
placed Pickens.
Before the 1916 session of the legis
lature complaint was made from vari
ous sections, especially those next to
Oconee and Greenville, which were both
under the law, that hunters were com
ing across the line to take advantage of
our free county, and at some places it
The Eli
For
I offer for sale fan
formerly owned by 4
price and terms write
A. L.F
Fourth National Be
Snbscribers of The~ Piei
these dlays, and we are
weekly paper iln this s(
r-s the news.- service a
Sentinel subscriber's geC
to give Pickens couin
possible. Will you niot
lng your sub1scriptionli
nleighb~or to subscribe?
we have the better' pc
we wvill all beniefit thc(
thru and you wvill agrec
c'itizenl canl well afford(
small suin of two cents
was dangerous to be at work in the
fields. What were we to do? Were we
to sit idly by and allow hunters of all
kinds, from the three counties that sur
round us, to come and without permis- ,T
sion, promiscuously shoot up our game
and endanger the lives of our white cit
izens, our women and children? c
I am not in love with this law at all u
but, fellow citizens, for the protection c
of your property and the lives of your 0
loved ones, the delegation thought that, 0
inasmuch as the law would be in force i
in Greenville, Oconee and Anderson, the
only safe thing to do would be to make
it apply to our own county. I believe 1
when you understand the situation you
will say we were right.
Now, my friends, I regret to have to b
bring all this before you, but I cannot C
see you all; neither can I have time to tc
make these explanations on the stump, S
and they would not be necessary except
that things have been misrepresented y.
concerning me and this Hunters' License in
Law.
I have endeavored to serve my county It
with a whole heart, and I have never C
failed when she was assailed to take her ri
part, and believe me now, I am always ti
ready to stand by her and no one, more a
than 1, rejoices at the rapid strides of sc
progress she is making. Whether or not n
I am ever honored with another office, t
I am proud of the honor you my friends a
have already conferred upon me. I am d
glad that I have been able, in my feeble o1
way, to alleviate the suffering of many
who were unable to pay me for my ser- y
vices. This I hesitate to say, butithas
been said of me that because I am a
physician I have no right to offer for
office. My friends, the office to which I
aspire is yours. If you believe I can fill
it well, then you can repay me for the I
free service I have rendered by electing ci
me to it and, in any event, 6elieve me C
to be Yours very truly, * fi
J. L. BOLT. S
n
County Hunters' License c
t(
Section 1. "Be it enacied by the a
General Assembly of the State of n
South Carolina, That every resident P
of this state must obtain a license
in order to 'hunt birds or animals
within the borders of this state,
except landlords and tenants and I
their respective children on their
freeholds and leaseholds, respect- .
ively, for'which license he shall pay
one dollar and ten cents each year;
said license to be known as a 'County a
Hunters' License,' and it shall en- C
title the owner and holder thereof c
to hunt, in accordance with the laws 0
of this state, anywhere in the county
in which he resides: Provided, how- H
ever, That any landlord may give
written permission to any resident t
of the county in which he lives to t
hunt on his premises, which said N
written permit shall be exhibited i
on demand of any Game Warden or
officers.' '
a
(Advertisement) h
i
Salea
t4
i located near Pickens, c
eorge A. Ellis. For ~
or telephone
VI LLS,
ink, GREENVILLE. l b
cenis Sentinie1 are getting
by's wot ill the paper'
ghaId they are. No other'
ietion is givingr its read
ndc special featur'es The
t. WVe are( w~or'king hard
Ly .the best HO~Vspaper h
eOilrage us by renew- t
wompl11tly or getting) yourl' f
The liore sul)scib ersb
to be without it for the
a week.
3. L. Craig for
Supt. Education
'o the Voters of Pickens County:
Owing to long sickness of my little
hild and other pressure, I have been
nable to make any canvass of the
munty and want to write a few words
r thanKs in advitnce for a kind hearing
a the stump and for the assistance of
10 voters at the polls if I can satisfy
tem that I am worthy and that they
ill not be hurt if I am electt I. While
am a Pickens born, Pickens raised
1d Pickens married boy, yet in many
aces I am little known, as the great
ilk of my work has been done in other
)unties, but below you will find some
!stimonials that will speak for them
Ives.
Virst, Mr. A.. C. Smith and Mr. E.N.
eJunkin as to my integrity and teach
g:
This is to certify that I have known
ev. C. L. Craig for several years and
in sincerely recommend him as an up
ght, straight-forward Christian gen
eman and a live worker, both in school
id, church. Our school and Sunday
thool have both prospered under his
anagement. I have sent my children
> him for three terms, and have never
mnt to a better teacher; in fact, he has
)ne more for my son, Julius, than any
;her teacher I have ever sent to.
Will be glad to answer any inquiry
)u may wish t'o make concerning him.
(Signed) E. N. MCJUNKIN,
Trustee Ambler Graded School.
Pickens, S. C., July 8, 1916.
This is to certify that I have known
ev. C. L. Craig for twenty years and
in recommend him as an upright
hristian gentleman. He is well quali
ed to teach. Is a Baptist preacher, a
unday school worker. He has advanced
iy children as fast as any teacher. I
in recommend him as an equal to any
.acher in Pickens county. Will answer
ny inquiry you or anyone may wish to
hake. (Signed) A. C. SMITH,
atron of Ambler School, former Trustee
of School.
Pickens, S. C., July 8, 1916.
Wcond, lion. A. W. Jones, comptrol
-r general, as to the correctness of my
ookkeeping while I was county super
itendent of education of Oconee county:
I have carefully examined the books
nd find the same correctly kept in ac
yrdance with instruction from the
)mptroller general's office, this - day
f October, 1901. A. W. JONES.
Third, Hon. P. P. Sullivan, S. M.
unnicutt, C. E. GapIbrell, 1. F. Lee,
ho were trustees during my adminis
'ation, as to my management of the
istricts. Several substantial buildings
'ere built while I was in office, among
iem were the Seneca high school at a
)st of $15,000, Westminster high school
t a cost of $10,000 and the Walhalla
igh school at a cost of $8,000. All this
'as done without aid of state approp
iations such as'we have now, and if
'e could have drawn on the $300,754.12,
1c state's annual appropriation, we
ight have had a high school on every
han's plantation, certainly one in every
istricte andI the p~eop~le would be sing
mg the song of old, "Other county su
erintendents have slain their thous
nds, but Craig has slain tens oif thous
nd~s".
o Whom it May Concern:
This is to certify that we wvere trus
res of Brewer school dlistrict, Oconee
)unty, year 19)07. TIhis district wins at
iat time badly in need of a larger'
~hool house, hut we had no funds to
raw on at that time, so we arranged
ith our superintendlent of edIucation,
.L. Craig, to allow us to overdlraw
iough to put up a nice, goodi building'
a cost of $530. We had the use of
lis money for several years without
sy interest, which was a considerable
em to a weak school. The old school
uilding was sold at public auction for
11, and we considered it wvell sold.
(Signed) S. M. H UNNICUTTr,
I. F. LeKm,
rustees Brewer School District, Oconee
County, S. C.
o Whom it May Concern:
During the administration of C. L.
raig as superintendent of education of
conee county I was then a resident of
lndison. this county. At that time we
ad a large district with two schools,
ae larger being Stony Point, which was
wvored by the trustees who lived near
y and were patrons of that school, the
tuation being so unfavorable to Madli
>n, which was not getting enough
noney to exist, it was dleterminedl by
'ae Madison people to undertake to form
new district. The matter was sub
itted to the board of education, and
brough. the efforts of Superintendent
Craig the district was foi-med, a special
levy made and the school was started
which grew very fast and hqs bednia
prosperous school with tWo teachbtjr
several years. The writer was 'atrus'
tee during the administration of r
Craig and was well pleased with the
service extended in building up this
school.
I have no motive in writing this letter
more than to express my appreciation
of thd services extended the school and
his uniform courtesy to me as a trustee.
Respectfully submitted,
P. P. SULLIVAN.u
Westminster, S. C., July 14, 1916.
C. L'. CRAIG.
Pickens, S. C.
(Advertisement)
Montvale
Montvale school opened Monday of
last week with a good enrollment.
W. H1. Chastain made a business trip
to Greenville one day last week.
Mr. and Mrs. M. ). ohappell went
one day last week to see Jake Aiken,
who is ill at his home in Greenville.
Bertran Porter, of Pickens, who has
been on the sick list, spent several days
recently with his grandparents near
Porters chapel. We are glad to know
that he is improving.
John Gantt of Liberty, recently ap
pointed game warden for Pickens coun
ty, was circulating through this part of
the county last week.
After several days' vacation, R. F.
Herd, mail carrier on route 3, is back
on the job.
Mrs. W. H. Chastain and children,
Beal and Azilee, were visitors in Pick
ens last Wednesday.
A protracted meeting is being con-,
ducted this week at Mountain Grove
church. Pastor Charley Atkinson is be
ing assisted by his father, Rev. B. C.
Atkinson. The meeting at Porters
chapel will begin next Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. Ben Gravley, of Texas,
are visiting at the home of his brother,
W. T. Gravley.
Miss Ruth Cannon after spending two
-months at Rosman, N. C., where she
studied music, has returned to take up
her work in the Montvale school.
Chicken Thief Caught
Earl Hunter, whose skin is the color
of darkness and whose reputation is of
the same hue, was arrested last Wed
nesday by Officers Roark, LaBoon and
Julian for stealing chickens. Jim Fort
ner, who lives about two miles southof
town had been missing his chickens here
of late and Wednesday called the ,f
ficers in to help him catch the thief.
When the officers arrived the "nigger"
had come and gone, but he left his big
barefooted tracks behind him. The rain
of the night before made it easy to fol
low the tracks and they led right to
Earl Hunter's door. The men walked
in and found Hunter just about to en
joy a bountiful repast. He had one
chicken in the pot cooking. On search
ing aroundl a little Constable .Julian
found three more diressed1 chickens.
They wvere in a bucket hanging down in
the wvell. They brought the thief back
to town and 'Squire Porter thought it
might be well for him to spend a few
(lays with Capt. Ragsdale. H-e is on a
thirty-day sojourn.
Hunter has been in the hiands of the
law before. He was tried in 1909 for
assault and battery and sentenced to
seven years. H e served four years and
on March 6, 1913, he was paroled by
Governior Blease (luring good behavior.
War Pictures and Lectures
,Next Friday evening at 8.30 o'clock,
inthe school auditorium. Rev. IL. E.
Wiggins will give a lecture illustrated
with stereopticon views of the European
war. These pictures will be interesting
and all the people should avail them
selves of the opportunity to see them.
A small admission fee of 10 and 15 cents
will be charged. Mr. Wiggins has- re
cently purchased a stereopticon lantern,
which he will use at his Sunday evening
services at the Methodist church to
illustrate lectures on different phases of
religious work. The first of these ser
vices will be held next Sunday night.
Littleton College
We have on our campus an apartment
house, a two-story building of 25 rooms, * ,,
with a frontage of a hundred feet, which
may be used by girls who wish to form
clubs'and live at their own charges.
Pupils can live cheaply and comfort
ably in this way, many of them having
their table supplies sen-, to, them from
their homes.
For further information address J. M.
Rhodes, Littleton Coll~ge, Lttleton,N, ..
