- ..... V
"';l.
r ri.
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 1916 '
NO. 30
í
ÍES
GET
THE MANSKER CASE
It is with absolute regret that the
Citizen again fels it necessary to
print ..i its columns mora, about the
removal from office of Sheriff Mar.-
sker, becnuse the Citizen does not
OLD. SETTLERS ENJOY EATS,
SPEECHES AND CONTESTS
Some three or four hundred folks
consisting of old-settlers, new settlers,
speakers, and us, attended the old set
tler's picnic held in the grove on the
Tmnrmpl inn fiare! ranch todav. (The
Pifian philH tnnk nothing to eat. of "ow, a:d never has, bolieveo in try
course, and here we wish to state that "S h the newspapers; because
T. J. Crumley and family came to the sucn a imng onen resuus m m.s
nñ Wp ha one wonderful carriage of justice, and tends to ere
feedif we never have another There ate, more or less prejurice in the
is only one reeret we retain of the minds of the people who read only one
wnnlo nfPair A. F.. Snvder was there s,de of the matter.
j joi t mnro The Citizen has heretofore felt that
hpffr fripñ chicken than Mrs. Snv- was lts dutv to Pnnt Mr- Man
der had prepared. Because of the slers statement of his side of the
aforesaid feed we were unable to call case- because, of the fierce, vicious and
Snyder's bluff.) misleading statements concerning it
UTh mihiectof dinner was one of Uhich appeared often in the Snooze,
th- most interesting. Evervbodv Democratic organ of Union Coun
seemed to have enough to feed the
whole crowd.
C. S. Markin, who presided as chair
man of the entertainment committee
ty ; and. the Snooze never lets up . on
this matter, but continues it's gross
misrepresentations of the facts, for
instance: In its issue of July 29th, ap-
started things in the speaking Une by Peared .th.e follon&:. ; .
introducing Rev. A. P. Gaines, who , That "Persecution", Again -made
a short and interesting talk; the I "The Citizen referring to Mr. Man-
trend of which was for a higher moral I sker's very recent attempt to get his
life through the coming of prohibition ease removed from Union, county to
s County Superintendent H. H. Er- he Judicial District in which Charlie
rett's short talk showed that . Union I Speiss lives, again designates those
county Jby thriftiness and ambition of I engaged in the prosecution of .. this
its settler had climbed to a commend-1 pase as "persecutors." It might well
able point in educational unes, t rom I be asked why Mr. Mansker or his at-
a dozen schools with a total of 35 torneys. or some one of them or all
teachers in 1908 to schools in every of them, are so fearful of going to
part of the county with a total part trial in this case in Union county,
of the new state rank first in educa- Surely it couldn't be because they
tional progressiveness Mr. Errett al- would not enjoy haying the facts in
so advocated, In his speech, the es- his case,, "turnqdi insidarput for pub-
tablishment of three High Schools in lie consideration in,, the. face of thefr
various parts of the county with the long-winded, and longstanding argu-
expense falling on all the county and ment to the effect that nothing can
. .. j:í..:í. . -ii i i i a l ; í. íí rt
. nut any one umintu i possiDiy oe grougnt, pub Hgaiimi . ruvr
J Prof. J. W. Thompson made an in- Old , Bob" for all hese alleged charges
teresting address which was well re- are simply trumped,(up against hinu"
TO INFORM THE PUBLIC
After reading the last issue of.
.the Clayton News I feel disposed
to "rise up in meetin" and make
a few remarks.
As president of the Union County
Teachers' Association I wish to say
that I appointed the Resolutions
Committee without any suggestions
from Mr. Errett whatever. I had
not even decided whom . I should
select until the moment in which
they were appointed. My main idea
was .to have the whole county, in
cluding Clayton, represented. I also
wish to state that I was present,
at the request of the committee
when those resolutions were drawn
up and please note that Mr. Errett
was not "settin there" as you insin
uated.. And furthermore please note
that all. members,, save one, of the
Resolutions Committee are Demo
crats. (Signed) '...,....
Mrs. Nell Hauser.
Carl E. Johnson, living fourteen
miles northwest of town, put a three
wire fence around his cane crop and
then went to Wacomas, Oklahoma, to
harvest his crop there. Someone with
more covetuousness than honesty,
drove up in a car one night and took
the wire home with them only leav
ing the posts and the holes in the
ground. As a result cattle are de
stroying the crop. Is this "doing un
to others" or merely "doing others."
Fence Vanishes
CALL1 FOR A REPUBLICAN PRI
MARY CONVENTION
PRECINCT NO. 1 '
Local Dealers to Sell Schluter Lands
And by ppintin,g this , grossly mis-
lieve that Mr. Mansker, and his at
torneys, did not want a jury trial in
Union county; while the truth is: that
some time -ago Mr. Mansker's attor
neys filed, in the District Court of Un
ion county, a motion asking the Court
to call a special session of the Court
in this county and give him a jury
trial of this case, which motion is as
follows:
ceived.
J G. C. Smith worked over'our state leading statement, it appears that the
lands, rather the system of disposal S'-iooze could have, intended, nothing
of, state lands and the . subsequent less than to wilfully misrepresent the
uses to which the money is applied.' true facts, and make the people be-
Mr. Smith maintains that the interest
from state land funds go to the sup
port of rural schools.
Emma Norman, a socialist new
settler near Cuates addressed the
crowd along lines of her belief. Mrs.
Norman is an interesting speaker and
her argument contained many points
of local interest, part of which were
along lines of points in Mr. Smith's
speech so much in fact that the re
porter heard this remark "By golly,
that lady is making me out a Social
ist," said Gee See.
J Little Miss Octavia Norpinn favor
ed the crowd with several s.:los Miss
Norman for one of her years lias an
unusual voice and her efforts were
well received.
County Agriculturist Beatty tulke!
to the crowdon subjects whichnost of
trose present were deeply concerned,
that of farming.
Rob't. W. Isp.ucs closed the speak
ing program touching on the subject
of Union County's undeveloped re
sources. , Oil was his theme. 1 Mr. Is
aacs thinks that with the judicious ex
penditure of a little money it can be
determined if there lies hidden in
these parts any of the wealth pro
ducing fluid.
Various races and contests made
up the balance of the program. Ladies
of the crowd came to the front in the
races and contributed some of the best
events on the amusement program. J
At the close of the affair W. H.
Lindsey, county organizer for the
Farmer's Society of Equity, an
nounced organization of new locals
at Lakeside school Friday and Man
sker school Saturday evening.
I Understand from the effusion
; that appeared in the last issue of
Í the' News that the members of the
! Resolution 'Committee1 werr mere
puppets who jotted down the reso
lutions as they were dictated by Mr,
Errett,' and that the teachers of
this county are dupes who are led
to do things in which they are not
sincere. As chairman of the Reso
lutions Committee, and speaking in
behalf of said committee I wish to
express- our resentment ' against
such insinuations as have been made
by a would be journalist in the em
ploy of the Clayton News.
Furthermore I wish to endorse
what has been said by Mrs. Hauser
in regard to the meeting of the Res
olutions Committee.' Neither - .Mr.
Errett nor Mr. Hall were present
when those resolutions were drawn
up and we stand responsible for any
and all statements contained there
in. And I do not believe that the
teachers of this county are dupes to
or unanimously endorse a set of r
olutions that did not meet with their
approval in which they do not ful
ly concur.
(Signed)
Benj. J. Melton
C. P. Talbot, of the real estate firm
of Pennington & Talbot made a trip
to Denver last week, and closed a con
tract with Mrs. Christine C. Schluter
and hei daughter, Mrs. Johns for the
exclusive' sale on over twelve thou
sand acres 6f their lands. Reasonable
prices will be ' put on ' the various
tracts accbrding to the quality of the
land.' This will be' done within the
next weék; and the land Will then be
ready for sale.0 The BIG SPRINGS
Northwést of Clayton, and practically
all of their holdings In the' following
townships will be put "on the market,
28-32,128-33,- 28-84,'27-30; 27-31, 27-32,
27-33, 27-34, 26-29, 26-30, 26-33, 25-33
There is also considerable leased land
which will be turned over to the pur
chasers of the' adjoining deeded land
and reasonable terms with 7 per cent
interest on deferred payments will be
made.
You are hereby notified that re-" ;
publican precinct primary will be held
at the court house,' in Clayton, New
Mexico, on the Í2th of August for.
the purpose of selecting 15 delegates
to the county convention which meets
at Cláyton, August 17th., at which 10
delegates w ill be chosen to represent
Union county at the republican state
convention which meets at Santa Fe,
August 23rd, 1916. '
CARL EKLUND,
: Precinct Chairman.
Hughes For Women's Votes
The Prodigal Returns
There was great " rejoicing last
week in the Isaacs Hardware store
when C. D. Eakin, Bob Isaacs' oldest
son and tinner, returned tinto the fold
after a prolonged absence. The
"bunch" would have killed the fatted
calf, but the prodigal wanted cake, so
tin'y sent him to complete the big oven
the bakery.
Dr. W. W. Chilton and son, Ed, and
In The District Court of Union County Carl and Mrs. Dunn, returned the first
New Mexico
State of New Mexico, Ex Rel.,
vs.
Robert T. Mansker, as sheriff of Un
ion County, New Mexico,
Defendant.
MOTION FOR JURY TRIAL
Comes now Robert T. Mansker, de
fendant in the above numbered and
entitled cause, and with respect
.noves this Honorable Court to call a
special Venire for the purpose of giv-
Child Dies From Diptheria
of the week from Albuquerque, the
Rayado, Taos and other points where
they have been spending their vaca
tion. Dr. Chilton has told us the only
"real, honest-to-God" fish story we
have heard this season. He snys they
captured five hundred and six!y- three
members of the finny tribe. He didn't
sDecifv whether they were .11 rain
bow trout but the greater majority of
them must have been. The party
started home with a fine strki ; of one
hundred and fifty with which they
Lula Dodd, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. I. T. Dodd of New Home, died
of diptheria Wednesday and was in
terred in the cemetery here yesterday.
A private funeral on account of the
contagiousness of the disease, was
held, only the most intimate members
of the family being present. The ser- al repute."
vices were conducted by the little
one's grandfather, Rev. Smith. The
entire family have the sympathy of
everyone.
New York, 'July 31. Charles' EJ"
Hughes tonight outlined in his speech
of acceptance the issues upon which .
he will conduct his campaign for the
presidency. .
, Mrs.' Hughes assailed the . adminis-,
tration for the course it has pursued
with reference to Mexico, maintain-'
anee of American rights during the
European war, preparedness and oth-.
er great questions of the day. He de
clared for a new policy of "firmness
and consistency" toward .Mexico,.' for'
"the unflinching maintainance of all
American rights on land and sea," and .
for adequate national defense, ade
quate protection on both our western
and eastern coasts."
''We denounce all plots .and con
spiracies in the interest of any for-,
eign nation," Mr. Hughes said. "Ut-!
terly intolerable is the use of our soil
for alien intrigues. Every American'
must unreservedly condemn them and
support every effort for their sup
pression." 'The nominee assailed the adminis
tration for its "direction of diplo
matic intercourse," from the begin
ning, declaring that where there
should have been conspicuous strength
and expertness there had been weak
ness and inexpertness. He cited. San
to Domingo as an instance where trust ,
was shockingly betrayed by appoint
ments given to "deserving ,, demo
crats, and to the failure to continue
Ambassador Herrick at his; post in
Paris after the war had started as a
"lamentable savriiico of internation-
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION-CLERK
ing this defendant a jury trial of this to present their friend, but
cause without further delay: and as
grounds for this Motion, defendant
says:
Thrt he is informed and believes
that the law pertaining to this case
contemplates that he is given a speedy
trial of the issues involved herein by
a jury; although tnis deienoanc was
suspended from office on July 13th
1915, he has never yet been given such
trial.
(II)
That two terms of this court have
been held in Union County, since said
suspension of defendant, and he has
thev snoiled on the way. Now
that too bad. v
isn't
IlandKome Case For City Drug Store
The Clayton Construction company
has completed the manufacture of a
beautiful cigar case for the City
.Drug Store. The lower part of the
case is of mahogony, the display part
entirely of plate glass. The case em
bodies all the latest compartments for
the keeping of sales and reserve
stock.
Francisco Miera ame in from Rey
es the first of the week to attend to
business matters and purchase sup
plies for his ranch.
(HI)
That at the March, 1916 term of
this Court the jury panel was declar
ed, by the Judge, to have been irreg
ularly drawn, and was discharged,
thereby preventing this defendant
from obtaining a jury trial at that
term. That it was through no fault
of defendant that said jury panel was
so found and declared to be irregular
ly constituted and illegally drawn.
(IV)
That defendant is ready and anx
ious for a trial of his case by a jury,
been ready for trial at both of said fully believing that such a trial would
terms, but at the first thereof, to-wit: result in his re-instatement to ine oi
the September. 1915 term, defendant fice of sheriff of Union County, from
did agree to continue this cause for which office he has been suspended!
the sole purpose of having his official since July 13, llo.
records examined by the State Trav- WHEREFORE, defendant prays the
eling Auditors; fully believing that If Court to draw a special venire for the
such audit showed his books and ac- purpose, and allow defendant to nave
counts to be correct, that he would a speedy trial of this cause"
be re-instated in office, or at least af- The motion was argued at Raton,
forded an opportunity to have this July 25th, and overruled by the
case tried by a jury; but that said Court. Just compare the above clip
audit has long since been completed, ping from the Snooze with this mo
and a report made thereon by the tion, which Mr. Mansker made, seek
aid Auditor, which reDort shows de- ing to have a speedy jury trial- in
fendant not to have been short in his Union County, and then it will be
accounts with the County, but shows easy to understand how grossly the
him to have a substantial sum due Snooze misrepresents the facts in this
him from said Union County. case
An examination lor clerk will be
held at the post office in this city on
September 2, 1916.
Age limit, 18 to 45 years on the I
date of the examination.
Married women will not be admitted
to the examination. This prohibition
however, does not npply to women
who are divorced, but they are elig
ible for appointment only as clerk.
Applicants must be physically
sound, and male applicants must be
not less than 5 feet -1 inches in height
in bare feet, and weight not less than
125 pounds without overcoat cr hat.
For application blanks ami for
full information relative to the exam
inations, qualifications, duties, salar
ies, vacation, promotions, etc., ad
dress immediately,
THE POSTMASTER,
"I endorse the declaration in the
platform in favor of woman suffrage"
Mr. Hughes declared. And he added :
"Opposition may delay, but in my'
judgment cannot defeat this move
ment. I favor the vote for women."
One-fourth of the speech was de-
! voted to Mexico. Step after step ta
ken by the administration with ref
erence to Mexico was assailed, from
the days of Huerta to the note sent
the de facto government by the si .1:
department June 20, last, part of
which was quoted in the speech. The
seizure of Vera Cruz, the nom ime
said, "was war, of course."
"Later we retired from Vera Cnr:"
he continued, "giving up this ncble
warfare. Recently the naked truth
was admitted by a cabinet officer. We
are not informed that we did not go
to Vera Cruz to force Huerta to sa-
luta the flag. We era told that we'
went there to 'show Mexico that we
were in earnest in our demand that
Huerta must go."
America, Mr. Hughes continued, :
"has no policy of aggression toward '
Mexico, no desire for any part of her
territory, but wished her to have
John Corich & Son, who recently peace, stability and prosperity.
took over the business of E. J. Wal
tcrs, not only believe in improvements,
but sanitary improvements. While
attention was turned to making the
lobby of the bar more attractive, the
rear of the premises was not neglect
ed, a solid cement "back yard" now
being in evidence. Just turn on the
hose and everything is perfectly
clean.
Attention Farmers and Stockmen
We have just purchased from the
largest Mills in Texas, two thousand
tons Oil Cake, 43 Protein or better,
Texas prime double screened cattle
cake, for Sept., Oct., and Nov. deliv
ery. See us for prices beforé you buy.
Otto-Johnson Merc. Co. 30-c
"The conduct of the administration
has created differences we shall have
to surmount," he said. "We demand
from Mexico the protection of the
lives and prosperity of our citizens
ánd the security of our border from
depredations."
Safeguarding American rights
r.broad had not been accomplished by
the administration, he said. There
had been "brave words in a series of
notes," but "what does it avail to use
some of the strongest words known to
diplomacy if ambassadors can receive
the impression that the words are not
to be taken seriously ?"
Mr. and Mrs. W, E. Baldwin front
Wakanee, Kansas, arrived in the city
this morning to locate permtr.cntly.
' i
. , j y
iÍJE.'-'-''r "C? Tip
