THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and slightly warmer to-day; to
morrow fair and cooler; moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 75; lowest, 60.
Detailed weather, mall and marine report on page is.
IT SHINES ?OW ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 38.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1916. Copyrtpht, 191. b the Huh rUnting ami Publhhlnp AttocMton.
60 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
ijJJl f xJBBiNBWaWJsgalaitej J yaff
BIG MILK FMS;reSrS,
STILL AtiAlRST
LONG CONTRACT
l'iimiw StlMiinc' llmil.ii i I
v -a-
ocpt League's Terms in
Self-Defence.
AMI'l.K SITPPLY SEEN
tVl'lP PITV rflVCIMf l?l?0 I tne '"tefl of the bclllgetctit conn
1 I'll I 11 I lUtMM.JlJjUO.trlei. It is (minted uul Hint In llio case
Fillt N't) LoilO-er Oil PrtCP
ri-IH l.tllle.U Oil lUCt,
Iml Centres on Six
Months' Clause.
IK) 1(1) EX'S TO KEEP
COWS IN FLUSH IXC!
Dillon I'lnns to Protect Puh
lic Clashes With Daily
men's Hentl.
Citirorlder of 111" "net'onil wiring"'
milk dlstrlbutliiR companies to the do
nvinda of the Dairymen's League has '
trted a larpe flow of mtVc Into the 1
Mty ami It In tiellcvod till danger of a I
trlllt famine Is over. t
The larger ooncerns-Hon.enV. Hhef- '
ncld furitii and Mtitttnl-McDermott I
wltlch rllatrlbiite about f.l per cent. of
. , ... i
ihe city milk Hupply, repented their 1
r "
dtrfnriatfnn VAteri!r.l thjt thp ui)litil
. ' ' . ' .,
n.ii iiuikb wu. monina onumas wiin
'he fnrmera. but would buy milk by the
... . .
It wng Raid yewterday by wcvetal of !
the "second wtrlntt" dealers that they
""t """" ji " i-ur
. nisi, of knowleUgo that tho still
smaller dealers, who were alKnlnB with
"
om Ihem and because of the fear that
tii. i.r nm.....,iM i. i .. . .. I
t ie larger rompanlea were In a post-. The ench novernmenl In July for-1
i!on to make further trouble for them. Imally npiiealed to sentiments of Jua-
... ... ..jitlco and humanllv of the neutral roiin. I
ei"Hi msi uwu so-iaura (
"milk trust" members were getting milk J
Riiu were noi snarins; u -wiin any or iiieir
smaller competitors. Tho big companies
uaa tne organisations and resources, ,
me. in, unii were iiKei.v to crowil'ineni
to the wall in cose of a long fight
To Celt Rivals' applies.
The possibility of getting some ad
vintage by making contract with the
ifsyue for milk from producers on whom
the hlg companies have long depended
for much of their supplies also figured
n the reasons which Induced them to
!d.
I'l.der the agreement, the distributers
Kill take milk on a basis of a six months
in.'raet. paying the farmer practically
'1 tents a quart, or 41 cents more a
''jtirtredwelght than they paid during
'he I'orrespondlng period last year. They
rill pay the league rate for October. No
ii'nUr and December without question,
nr.'l the fairness of the price for the re
ii'a'nlng months of January, February
'td March will depend upon the results
f a comprehensive Investigation of the
'11k situation which Is to be made by
a special committee which will get down
0 business after election.
It was decided at the conference at
he Hotel Manhattan on Friday night
!ut this committee would consist of
iiree men, but yesterday the membership
was Increased to five. Two are to he
Mimed hy producers, two by distribu
tes and tho fifth Is to !e chosen by the
producers and distributers.
May Ckue Baala of Pay.
If the committee concludes that the
league prlco Is not a fair ojte for the
!t three months by reason of u sur
nlus of milk that cannot be handled na
bottled or loose milk by the distributers,
'he farmers promise to accept pay on
the basis of milk for butter and cheese.
Out of the present situation comes 11
rrunilje that for the time being at least
'!ir will be livelier competition he
'wfm the b'g companlea and the "second
"ring'' dealers In distributing milk,
hint bow long this will last nobody dared
to predict yrsterday. If the big com
ranles succeed In getting all the milk
they want without yielding to the Dairy'
league and the smaller men monopollxe
the source of supplies In the regions In
cluleil In New York'a milk producing
rea, things are likely to happen.
''omntlssloner John J. Dillon of tho
Stale Department of Foods and Markets
ld yesterday that If prices aro raised
10 the distributer he will use all bis
tlllty and resources of his department
in the Interest of the consumer.
"I nm not going to deny the dlslrlb
ut'r a fair profit," he said. "We need
"i" .v lair proiu, or nam. neeu 1
the distributer as much as the producer.
..... . . 1
in .'... I'H V, .11... I, ...... ,t l.l.r.m. .
noflt than the farmer because the dls
'rlbuter takes the greater haxard. Hut
h Ims got to play fair with the con
sumer." Slsjrnlnc a Bitter Pill.
tt was a bitter pill for many of tbn
slit Ibuters to go to Commissioner Dll
lor. h office, yesterday to sign with the
!eacj for their milk. As fast aw the
r'o!ntiiiMoncr approved the contracts,
tfl'rriinis were sent to league agents
up State and deals were closed with
1'sjue members who were selling milk.
Tin rnllk was then released.
It D Cooper, chairman of tho leugue's
xi-u'ive loinmlltee, explained that If
mlli couldn't be taken to shipping wta
'lor . mm, fr the regular milk trains
't O'Uil he sent by express to tho city
at 'In . xpcnsit of the distributer.
II was said last evi-nlng about n htl'i
'lrd iisrtiers had signed during tho week.
Mr 1 'wiper said he was confident that
N"' amount contracted for would repre
srt 5. t,,.,. cent, of the city's Biipply.
'Viv !,., 1 if Unrdeii'N and tho other
h i; e tir,.,,IH n(,w holding out, would
1-..1..'
tee
' slm with tho league nt Ills of
' iie) changed their minds about
iR 'he league's demands, Cominla.
'"111. hi snld 1
I xo any place If It would make
i.tslcr for them to sign, but the
It
C'.f jtiiKd on Smeiilfc J'agc,
SJck War Prisoners Trontetl by i
Host Methods, Offltinl
Hoport Asserts.
'ifu tN'. U wlrelriw to Hnyvllle. Oct
,Thc German Government In tin ofllelal
statement, according to Hio Oversea I
News Agency, refutes the recently pub-''
llshed report that prisoners in Herman!
calling had lieen IntotltliinalL- Infected I
with tuberculoids nnd had then Wen sent'
homo or Into u titutinl .mliy to propu-
i gate tne plague.
, All prison camps In Ocrin.uiy. the
statement say, may lie. Inspected nt any
iiine ny persons chntKcd with maintain
I of prisoner In Germane the oerecntmto
, of those Infected with tuberculosis Is
I IIIUCll LirffPC IlllWItl w I ll.. ir, aIk.Ii hmt nhl.
much larger ninom the Ficnch thnii nny
'"'rr '"tlonalK, owii1K to th.. faet tlmt
y KrelKh HUtTur fI, uf'n
vllJo ? . , h "l'T',1'lly
, '" """"i""" of the hardxhlpi.
I such" lek pilH.uei-. the Maiwnent '
adds. linine.ll.ucl.v alter their arrival In I
tho bet inetlinds.
..... ........ i-,,,., ,.,, wiiu-.i u-
Many of them have
lent truiiaferreil to Mwltxerland. uhvte,
1 til.) .'lllltnlu 1 n..... ,u. n.l.n '
GERMANY TO SEND
LILLE EXILES HOME
Spanlxli Oovernment's Media
tion SncceeiN', Says a Paris
Announcement.
L . .. ., rt - m. . i . ... i ,
Onice has Wen advled by the Spanish
Embassy that In ronrciiuctK'e of repeated
!
w
Tureolng. taken trom their home.
by the C.ei man military authorities some
.,,. ... ..., , ....
'xecks ago. will be ent back as soon
... ...
'",,r ,nc "oturnn imrv.-t sh (ssims. i
orders b.ue already lieen lesued for the
ttw-ii of I.fino women to their homes'
before i ir;nbr I".
"Tho Spanish r.oierninent." aaya the
note Issued here, "In taking energetically
1" hJ,m' 'h furlleat hour the cause
of tha unfortunate ixipulatlon of the In -
ur-ivsiru regions unit in onur.uniic a eisa-
utm " o.nou measures wnicn nave
' . " . Vk n "ft"""'"
opinion In the entire world, has done a
mcn w,!1 u" 'teful."
(rI i behalf of Ihe SS.ftfld lnhstilt.nl, 1
of the Invaded cities of northern France,
wou wen- irnnnponeii 10 oiner regions,
where they were vomiielled to work In
'e neios.
M0EWE COMMANDER KILLED.
Cannt von Dohlin-Xehlodlai, Meets
Death on Mninnir Kront.
Ionpon, Oct. 7, Count von Donna
Schlodlen, commander of the Oonnan
cruiser Moewe, has been killed In France,
according to a .Milan despatch to the
Doll) CarniilWe. Count Dohna-Schlodlen
was In command of a battalion of 'the
Thirty-fifth Infar.tiy Ueglment.
A despatch from the lltltlili front In
France on October : tat(d that among
prisoners taken by the Hrltlsh were
sailors from the Second Herman naval 1
division, These Ballots were said to
have been rushed to the Somme front
from Helglum, where for two yeura they
had been guarding tho coast with big
naval guns.
The Herman cruiser Moewe escape,!
from the British blockade toward the
end of 1915 and for several months suc
cessfully raided allied commerce, raptur
ing or sinking fifteen steamers. On Feb
ruary 1, llllC, the HritMi steamer Ap
pim arrived in Hamilton Hoads with a
German prlie crew fiom the Moewe on
board. Her arrival caUed a profound
sensation, since It was the tlrst Intima
tion the German commerce raider was
again on the high seas.
On March fi the Moewe concluded her
exploits by running the Hrltlsh blockade
for a second time and safely reaching a
German pott. An oftlcial statement from
Berlin stated that slm hart on board Dili
prisoners nnd 1, 000,000 marks In gold 1
bars. It was announced that one or
her achievements was the laying of a
mini which caused the destruction of
the nritlah battleship King Edward VII.
on January 10. 1910.
DRUG USERS SEEK AID.
Man and Wife Appeal to Cenrt for
Commitment ae Addicts.
A well drefcsed couple, appearing vol
untarily In the Washington Heights
couit yesterday, asked Magistrate Hreen
to send them tn the Metropolitan Hos
pital ns drug addicts. They wald they
were George Hlalr. 36, of USD Manhattan
avenue, an expert accountant, and his
wife. Dorothy. 2.1 yenia.
Mrs, Hlulr said that an operation was
pei formed upon her n year ago und
morphine was prescribed to nllay the
; . , . . .... U;M -
P.""' tlrward. Gradually the hold , of
in .leu.- 1 m.rjifi a.n tier niiMonnii iihii
.tt'I u. ,. . w ....... . ......
Hevero stomach trouble and when he
snw the relief the drug gave his wife
he began to use It,
The nialrs said they had two children
In an Illinois convent und want to re
establish their home. Hlalr's salary Is
substantial, they said. Magistrate Urecn
complimented them for th'lr firmness In
seeking aid, and directed that the neces
sary papers be mad out admitting them
to the hospital.
U. S. STEEL SUIT PUSHED.
(iuveriiment AsUa Karly Arnniiicnt
of Its Autl-Trnst Action.
Wahiiinoton, Oct. 7. Advancement for
earlier argument of tho tloveinment's
anti-trust cult against the United states
Steel Corporation was asked In the Sn-
pirme Court to-day by Solicitor-General
Davis. He told the uiurt "early ill ternil-'
nation of the case Is or the highest puhlla
Importance," and uiih-sh advaured It
might not be reached on the court's
docket before next fall.
The Government I appealing from dis
missal of Its dissolution suit In the lower
Federal couits, Hied In I'JIl in New
Jersey,
llniul llbie line personally Conducted
Tour In liellj slmrg and Washington.
on. ti. uli ipensm, i;;, Dnslls at 37a,
l!l, 137H. i:M. lllll thin y., 7 Cnrtluinlt,
4 W, I!'. HI, N, V 4, Kt Uuurt, llkljn. .
Adv.
LE SARS FALLS IH
NEW BRITISH DRIVE
Allies Make Dank Afrainst the j
1 Soinute Lines Over Kijjht
Mile Front. J
I Tv xtiis i nnn i ivct .
"'- l.-iM) 1 i 11 trrs 1
l'--.,,.!, fVmHniiP r'lwli'olin
r n m " ' OllllllllP MHIWIIII
Move Aimed at. Village of
l Transloy.
London, Oct. 7. The hilt In
SCilimio hnltle ended nlirnrillv lo-dnv. .
.
,Tl"n 1,rl,'h r ""P IJ' -!
,Ic 1)UIlod forwitrd tllflr Ilnc nbntlt
n''"lhh'd of a mile by a audden drive
on t.Wa mw rri,nt Tllc A,M ,,np.
tuf" "very position they set out to cap-;
tuie. Including the village of 1 Sari. a
llitle over three in lea southwe it of R.T
,, .i,ir imin- wm. ri.irne.i i . ih..m.
pa u tne.
The llrltlnh troopa north of the Homme
cut Into the Oerman line to a depth of
s.s
from Con to l.non yard between
lflge of nueudeeourt and leat llenifs,
nint directly south of Ilanaum., This
Kedge pushes out toward the village of.
, Uv Tr.mloy, a mainstay of the Herman '
fourth line, on the highway from Ba
' naumo to Pero.nte. '
While tho main Hritlth column directed
at Le Sari wan breaking down the last
resistance of (hi Herman surrlson In
the ruins of the town, olhor Hiltlsh
ttoops were pushing: forward east fttid
west of the village. On the west they
reached nearly to Hill 105, between Vt 1
fchUn and Hys.
French Advmice Important.
mile front from Morva'l to Bouchavesnea,
was of great value and Importanee. Tha
oJlh'".,''?
ginning the envelopment of this atrongiher ship's eotnnany was taking to the
village In the same manner that tli'V I lifeboats.
l,An. .I.m .!
ouim. uiiii..i i. .i..t...., i
The Krenrh line was carried forward I
Moarly a ,,, ortheaat of Morvat . acroaa
the J'eronne.llapaume road, which eon
nocts t Transloy and HallryHallllscl,
'Thus the direct communication lietween
tbn two garrisons of Germans la cut off.
The French are within a Utile over :00
yards of the northern entrance to Sallly
i and occupy a very valuable position on
tne summit of th Ballly-Hallllsel rlnge,
To the south of 8allly-Halllltl an ad
vance was made that marks the begin
ning of the encircling of this town. The
CV.V....1. ....... 1 I , ... , V.
rii'WWIl IiUPIir.1 lorn oiirn uur.,i ' .
edge of the St. Werre Vaast wood, and
mence nvar Mill 131), tne important rum-.
mU southeast of Bouchavesnea. 1
iv I
Oera Clra.
k ...... ... v ...t.j inn
German prisoners, of whom ten are ofll-
innin t.rlann.ra. of whom ten are ofll-
cera. and fifteen machine guns. The ,
British statement says that the number 1
of prisoner taken by them has not been
reported. The Hrltlsh statement fol-1
lor:
Thi afternoon. In cooneratlon with
the French nn our right, our troops
attacked from tho Albert-Bapaumo
road to Ls Uoj-fs. Between Oueude
court and Las Ibeufs our line advanced
from 00 to 1,000 ards. We captured
the village of Le Sars and mde prog
ress to the east und west of It.
Ileports of the number of prison
ers taken have not yet been received.
The work of the Infantry " usual was
gieutly assisted by our aircraft
The French Iteport.
The French statement aays:
North of the Somme our Infantry.
In conjunction with tho Hrltlsh, at
tacked from the front of Morval
Houchavesnes nnd brilliantly attained
all Its objectives, our line was ear
rled forward 1,20" meters northeast
of Morval. It crowns the western
slopes of the Sallly-Hallllse) ridge, the
whole of the rtarmiime road to about
two hundred meters from the entrance
to Pallly and skirts the western and
southwestern frltsges of the St.
I'letn-Vaiist wood, whence It con
tinues, over Hill 13" to aouth of
Bouchavesnea.
Cp to tho present over 400 prisoners,
Including ten olTlcerw, have lieen
counted ns well ae llfteen machine
guns.
Large assemblies of enemy troops
reported north of Sallllsel were caught
by tho concentrated fire of our bat
terlea. South of tho Rommo and on the right
bank of tho Meuso there were violent
artillery duels.
Fighting- North of Anrrr.
The German statement, which refera
1 nppurently to conditions prior to tho
Krunco-liritlsu utlucK ot mm aucriiooii,
aayu :
Army group of Prlneo Jtupprecht
The great artillery battle on tho
Homme haa now spread to the front
north of the Ancre and has Increased
In Intensity south of the Somme, es
pecially on both sides of Vermando
vlllers. Our curtain of fire almost completely
suppressed attacks of the enemy be
tween the Ancre and tho Somme and
ulso suppressed an attack between
lxs Bwufs and Houchavesnes against
troops of Qen. von Hoehn and Gen,
von Gamier, which was arrested at
the outset. Only southwest of Sallly
did hand to hand fighting develop with
weak enemy delachments which ad
vanced to our lines.
A French attack from the Denb-court-Vermandovlllers-Llhons
front
against the sector of Hen. Kathon led
to bitter hand to hand engagements
near Vermandovlllers, which were de
cided to the advantage of our brave
ftchlrswlg troops, against whoso stub
born resistance tho efforts of the
French fulled during the whole month
of July In the same tegtnn. .More
over, all the onemy's attacking waves
broke down under our Are.
FIGHT HARD FOR NOVEL.
Teutons Concentrate Defences lu
Vlndlmlr-Volynskl Itralnn.
I'KTliouriAn, Oct. 7, lien, Hruelloff s
i ojieralloim on the Husslan Miuthwestern
front have devoloed Into efforts to pierce I
the Austrn-Germnn nun at two points,
namely, befwe Vbiill-nlr-Volynski, tlm
northern extrHiulty of the recent ad-1
Vance, and Itnmedlntely south of the
Dniester, where ho bus gained ground
no.ir Hogorodochan, on tl.o Hyslrltx.i. I
At Intermediate points. Hcrcc iitlnckN and
counter attack, have been jeporlcil fiom
time to time.
Tho centre of the Husslan attack, lit l
the northern sector la along Ihe Lutsk-1
Vladhnlr-Vol nskl road lit the uclghlsir-1
Continued on J'nlril Pag,
,mTHE Fms BABY
BURIED BY MIST AW
I'lirulysis Jhispitiil'K Itluiidci
Causes hircnts to linn
(iatimt of Crier.
. Yrt.s'Kr.tis, .V. Y Oct. 7. Mis. Michael
Napls of 4 Vliif yaril iivenno went to
'' Contagious Diseases Hospital
mi afternoon In response to 11 twine
, that her daughter, 18 moiithH old, litiil
. recovered from Infnntlle paralysis mid
jojuwi lie tiiken liome.
At t!ic hospital girl of the fame hum
was shown to Mrn. .'nil, who declared ,
.It wa not her daughter. Investigation
riifiwril me W11H riKlll Willi 1110 IMHJ
belonged to Mr. And Mrs, John Valcoff
iof it Madison avenue.
Hut thero was. another .'-let In the
'situation. Two weeks iiro i huhy 1i.ul
riled or Infantile paralysis, and tlr ho.-
hIIhI record liml Intli-it iliv .im
- - ..- .... .-
!' "1fIT l';'',y;l ""'l '
;rftl'v'," J'?'? .V"'
n fnder the hnilth law., thin huhy
',.,. m j,,.j. lkl M t.;iii
a"li,,.,,a',,, ,,!' l'""tH had nol ..wii'
Mri NaiVle's. .-
The ValcofTM wer.. over lived to-dav
while Mrii. NaplH became hysnilcal.
WARD SHIP ANTILLA
A 171 P 17 A 17 17 VIDPTMIA "i:lt ,"" Oermnn r.oMrnment nliendy
ArillD llAUllUn;1';1 ?u'" tiiuuril imtce proposal.
i Mr. Sabln has nolhlng fuither to add
the statement made to the newspaper '
jinen on IVIday. lie had fully considered
Wii.nlnci liVoni Vncc.l ldnini.t j " '"'t'eipa ted the conequnces of hla
VtlieieSs rroill Csel HepnMSa,mu,lnc,.mrllt..
Her Company Takinjr to
Lifeboats.
A w Ire-I
leas mewsagt picked up shortly before
9 o'clock to-nlgh from the Ward liner
Antllla aalil the steamer was atlte ISO
mllei off the Virginia Capes and that
Thfl steamer Smnciset, wlilth Is
twenty-five miles from the Antllla, !
proceeding to her rrsviir, and the Coast
Guard cutters Onondaga and Apache
also have left for the scene Tin.
Antllla Is reported to have some pasvn
gera aboard.
At 10, It o'clock another niesage from
the Antllln stated that the passengers
and most of the new alr.ady had taken
to the small boats end that the wireless
operator exptcted to be forcd to leae,
n n.l,,,,., if, ..a...i-,
' """ ' "'
" r.'."'""-' ."' "r. - .
The message telling of the plight of the
Antllla was picked up by the wireless op.
arator at 3 :3 1 o'clo k. It wan directed
to the eoaat guard station nt im.. ll..iu v
nd asked that cutlers be sent at unci
nd asked that cutlers be sent at unci
to the ateamer's uld. saying "all on board
are taking to lioats" j
Shortly after Hie tlrst message was'
picked up the wireless: operator said .
twenty-six or twenty-seven ships nad
".'en up lim uil ami 1. spit w .
broadcast, offering to go to the aid of 1 1 1-
burning ship and directing vestels they
believed to be closer to the Antllla to
proceed there.
.ri . , , . ,, , . ; ltn thrown .irounit .Mr Sahln
The steamship Ant.lla . ailed Mom nam- us Ihe author of the peace report
Guantannmo, Cuba, on September 3 fo- I f,,.ms -! i
cZ. r.M,UHm.-i;,e,w ?i -hTiU;ib,nr'of,,Jne"!'ut
Wind KZiWVZl h,.hB. :V,W Trua-'compan,
lork and Cuba Mall Steamship Com- h.. tu111111.11 ,1 some repo.ters vester
Soo? t"l,?M, .' iV",,"'' H-l.-'.l,y to anon.nously convtty to the pull
l,J: t V? 'I ', lL,:rv''7,,,",lllc lllt- '''''""" H't Clermany was
FnJel.?' K '. ""I"" '" H'lOUgll AmbASdOC Ce-
Formerly she was und. r Hrltlsh ugl-, raid ..ml I'lesldem Wilton,
try and was known us the Lunst.ui. .
Officials of the lomp.n.y suld to-night . muuelj do the sime' thine- 11,, ,i,J Is anything In It. and oiery leason to be
they had received .1 me w.ge sayin the 1 1 TrUft "o, np 1 n , r '" ls ""hl"K ' '
vessel was on tl-e. but giving no di tall-. ' yVblii , ,v . lelnons itv .1 u 1 Adding to this they declared that when
The Antllla. they .aid. was ionlcd with S, tt. r Filler 7,1 .'.v T-"- ""'.rd left Berlin for ..'op. nhugin
rrnar ntul Inmh.r .mil uv.j .1 n ,'"'"' 1 l-III.er a public or n private v. ...,.. ... ,?..
. ,
SHIP MWXFl) -IT ?f'.l
onil OUlAf-f.W J
Strniiier rrofloii'a I'lissenaera
davril, Naa Hniili-i I1I1-0 llespati-h.
MoNTKMimo. na. 7 The steamer
Crofton, lsuiiid from New- Yolk, wan
burned this morning The pa.ctiBcis
were saved and landed
No strainer Crofton Is lliiul i-i the I
maritime ri-ords. but th Miieilciti
steamer Crofton Hull, formerl) ..' "'(
Ish leglstrr, sailed from New York Sep.
temher M nnd w-hh bisi r.m.rtn,i u...,. -
ber 19 1T.0 mllcH northeast of Itarbidos
She was bound for Montevideo. The
eri.rm 1 1, .11 - --1 . ..
. ,ii. i.i iiiim IIIHI WHS
commanded by '"apt. Kllvirt
GUARD RECRUITING FAILS.
"Ton Prnml to I'lght" IMirnae
Blneka War llepnrliiient.
WAaHINOTON, Oct. 7, The "loo tu mi 1
to light" policy has hint a leiy unfortu
nate effect on the War Department's
widely advertised campaign for National
Guard resulting. Tile campa'gu ap
pears now to have completely culliiji.ied
and Is to be abandoned,
Secretnrv ttnLee in.il n, u..,,i l.,, .....
Hon to all department . oi-ininu ' kept lu the I tilted Mutes, It la reputed
stating that as reerulllng had fal'rn to.'." "v" l'l"''u ,'""'"-';ll"K lth Berlin
a low level tVev weie authorized ui uimncleiw.
aiiaiuloii all ii-crulliiig stations that wer
piovlllg Useless,
M. Il.l... 1 - i ,.. .. .
..... iiann le, 111 i-iiuisr, l.ei'iuy uisip-
pointed at tho fallme of tho campaign,
iin.o tnniiiir-rii io wen ai ine tune of
the border molilllxitloti.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SUCTIONS.
AS FOLLOWS:
Psieix
FIRST
SECOND
THIRD
Central Newi,
Real Ej.
tate
Spotting. Automobiles,
Kenneli
Newi of Society,
School. Ftthioni, Car
clem. Drama Muuc ,
Pictorial Macarin-, . ,
Sprrial Feature Section .
Editorial. Foreign, Hoalii
Quetiei. I'inancial, I'rob
lems, Chcit , , , .
16
12
FOURTH
FIFTH
SIXTH
Total
60
Rtaitti or ntu'iJeattrs aho Jo not it
fr all of ifosc fcthns uiU conjtr a
fetor on " Tit Sun" ly no'ifyins ihe Put.
IkttUn Dtpartmtr.! at once by Iht phone
2200 Bttk,man) onJ mlssint jeefom
rttil at promptly forvardtJ I pontile.
'SABIH STANDS BY
HIS PEACE TALK
Hiinker Denies lie Sold Tliatj
flernril Whs Bringing; Pro-
1
poxnl Frorti Knlser !
NO MOTIVE. KB ASSKHTS1
Declares
"Administration"'
Knows of Plan After Hearin
of President's Denial.
Chailcs U, Snhln, prealdeiil of the'
tliminnty Trust 1'omp'iny. Is the man
'"I10""1"' " teport that Oermauy
rrc.ld.nt WlUon to mediate
"Ctwien the belligerents. The report..
sflven out anonymously nt tlrst, uns re. i
Iterated hy Mr. Sabin MMerd.iy when'
.the Homoii New Hureau revealed his
"" a uuir.
" would not, huncier, Fay that Am-
Inesadur tSerard li brlngltig Uic mea
, fc.iKe from the Kaler, In giving out the
staKniciil ln repreiented no one but
1 hlme;f. he iiHsertid positively. Through
,lils M-cretary he Iswued the followliiK
sl.itement
"Mr CI,,., ...I.... , i.l .
,y In .Mr. Ilrrnr.f. ,u,.a,l
lth the move Mr. Sabln said he had iiu'
Information. Jle said that might 110s-1
I slhly be the Ambassador's errand, but
i that the only definite Information he
I had was that (ii nnanv had decided tn
"'' ''resident to art as mediator,
tmvnri, t,,(t 'cn(1 5 " 11 ,aKen I
'
.N .Motive, He laia.
When the President's dlsai 'nu'.tl rif HtivJ
Knowledge of the moi was repealed to'lias stated h know positively 'that Mr'
11,0 banker ho lemarked that he would 1 ller.ir.l Is comli-f on no suih m'lwsion!
urn kiv ine i-rrsiitcni Kiiw anything of and the ."tote l.i,partm..it as tnoMil
the pence proposal, hut that the Admin-1 t.i-day to issue an otlltlal di.r.inl, t'l.
Istratlnn rertMnly knew r It. Ho re- stoiy circulated widely In ellicl.il and
fused to say what officials of the Ad- d'ploiiiatle. moles and was e;lout'. dl
ii'.tnlstration weie oienlzant of the riro-l cussed ni a posJb.ilt.
I"1"' j As strengthening ll.e vhuln of i,. pof-
"Wliat was your motive In giving out Irg evlduce. Unidon h.trd tn.it I'h.ui
the Interview?" he was nsked. c!loroli He'.hm.ilin-llollwvg. In h fight
moi no mouve. ne n-pneii,
ion anew it wuuiii nave a nesrish er- 1
jfect on the mark-t?''
I . 1 . I. . . ...
ma.k.t after ,;; .1 h,r: , ,i ' V' f V. ,ul
b en .nd ng for six months "
When he ifas told that It had been
w.niit. i
suggested that he had given out the
statement Friday to prevent the fharji
'"' wnieu migiu ioiiow it tne news
came out only after Mr. Gerard's ar-
rlv.it. be related that be had no ulterior
motive In ulvln n- tii
ihAi I.. ihohi i. . ... i.,- .1.'.
paper men a fmor. Now. he said, ha 1
paper men a fuvor. Now.
doubtful if it was a favor
When the newspaper men started to I
leave tho ijoatluiiiptoii golf link", where
he was se 11, he called out :
"Item.mhrr that what I told you Krl-
nj is au,o.u:aiy true-
tlmv .ecreey Was Hrnken.
The Itnaton News nureali bulletin I
t.-t 1, . ., m , . :
" 111 11 unr 1 1 m a ri, in rprrrcv wnicn
' ' "Mi-vlc.lwbeii1K).ctforme.l,
'It mines 10 u. through private
sources that In hl statement Mr.
sabln lepiesenls Important financial
nnd political Interests, It Is qullo In
the publli Interest that speculation
should be held H check at the pres.
ent tine for many reasons.
"IVace niltlatlie from Germany l
of the highest business, financial and
polfilcal Importance."
Willi MreeC, Vlr.
' opinion in Wall Slreit varied csiei
di Mr Sabln was sulijected to revere,
cni.elj.ni in some iiuiriers, the louden,
' .l. iniii. i.iii.ui i.ilu.in.iiii.u- it M.,m.,i
! mnoiu those who were hurt by the tern -
is.riny flump hi the market. The best
1 ..1 1.. .1. . t. . . ..
eieioeiii ill lile i-u'-ri Hi. IIIC1IIICI1 lO
praise the bunker for giving nut pws '
,. i,ii, 1,1. i...iio...i ,,. i,., i.i.
If true. Is of Imnorianco to Investors, '
No one ivuld be tound willing to be
inn I'm sujniK uiai ,r r-anin was llie
, chosen siKikesmaii of k powerful coterie
of bankers and financiers, but the belief
wiiw general neveithelcss.
The Guaranty Trust Company occu
pies a peiutur position In that It I. the
llse.il agent of tho Ilunslun Government
ii rut ii member of the syndicate that
'nan. d Ilussla Muo.Oiirt.OOO, and uki the
di posit.uy, nf a hrge part of tho fund.
oi ine i.ermau liuvcrnment which are
WAR STOCKS RECOVER.
.
I S.
lllnir, lirders From Interior Have
Utile IliTrrt.
Tile ilei line III SiOcli. wlilth Set III Im-
I medlateH after Die cliculatlon of the re
port of Germtn pence oienures Frlda)
eoniliiiieil in the early trsdlng yesterday.
, Cu-lninerw In the Interbt sent orde-s
i to hell war stocks mill othets, like Steel
c.iiiiiniui. which profit Indirectly from the
i.ir The de -line did not go f.u, and
when ti, iders started to cover their war
eotit-.acts Ihey found slockr bid up on
I in ui The net lesult of the trading was
a gain on the day, with the war storks
lecovcilim liius' of their imes nf Fri
day. Tin- cotton iii.ukct in which there were
advances of more uiau M a bale, also
rhtmcil Impetus fiom the peace rrpoit
i Wheat was higher, nlthouiih peine would
.irovlde no millet for Hussla's hie; stori s.
The Imelgn i xchange umrket. niitlnai Uy
ine nest ii.iii.nieier or inieriiailonai lie.
eiiiiioii-iiii. rii'inn, on iniiuence nt tne
peace repoit, and bunkers with German
i oiiucct Ions oald they Intel no confirma
tion. Mainliird Oil Strike Kxpreted
IIuiinnh, N. J., Oct. 7 Another
ineelltig of tho striking paruftliiH ein-
pin cos of the Standard Oil Company
was held lo-nlghl, The pollen look for a
strike of probably mie-hslf of thu 5,1100
mploei.s Moiid.iy If the strikers' de
I inatlds Hie refused.
GERMAN WAR
U 53 BRINGS
BIG CRAFT
HINT OF PEACE PLEA I
DV DDDT III TIDDOIOmO
i di ddiujih rcnoioio
J AmbabMidor Ccrnrri'ti Viit and j
V nil's Arrival Deemed
Significant.
OKKICIAL DENIALS ISSUED
I Merman Emhaxsy Disclaims
Knowlqdjre of l' ltoiil
Despatches.
All
IIKIlllV. n.i. r .1. 1 .....I.... .., w
ISuuduyl. The Mury elreulaled abrnuil
''.'""" )m"la Amlia.uiti.r. Jan.e
tlerard, la the bearer of an appeal
from the Crrm.n Kmperor f..r peaee
Interientliin b the t'nlted Male l ,lr-
clrd aiilanrllnlltely here to he nlivi
Ulfr win,ut the semblance of fotiada.
Hun. .
Wahiiinoton. Oct. 7. Otlhlnl denials
from all sides fall to down the persistent
rcportB that Amhasado-, .lames V. O.r
aril, returning from llerlln. In bringing
lug l'resldent Wllson'w Inteioesslen for
peace. Mr. Gerard Is due In New Yink
",7l"r.''aV. ,
vnti tlprtiklnrry tin rlA.Mi.i, l ...1. , . .1 m
against the Von TifpltzlU who wish
siiirn'i.. nnr....!r!...,.,i aiit.Mt niiL i'...,.'.
return
Un, compelled to appeal to the Swlnht
. . . .
hilltv of Inltutlnir n'mnv,. to br!e !.i.,iii
peace.
nisi vi .iiiiiiiriiuiui iirvriuinirni
The dramatic at rival of the irrtunu
war submarine I SS at Newport with a
package of despatches for Count ou
Uernstotft. lust lieforc ho has an audi.
lllce w,,h i'lesldont Wilson Monday.
only served to add to thu circumstantial
?'"ln "f. ' n'-s upon widen those who
be.ieve llm curieiil story of Mr. Gerard's
Homecoming baso their exiiectatlnn that
some momentous development K aboiil
to take place.
Tim German I.inbasy le.uight dls
1 , . . 7 --- -- - -
i-ln mini nnv unrm'li..lt. .if tit. iiMtiie.. i.t
1 , " , ......... "
. .. ' .
nmiiiif in iiii tVetii iti'ip, 1 jit; (mic
nieut nttrlbuti-d to Charles II. H.ilnii,
president of the Guaranty Trust Coin
pany of New York, tb.it Germany was
about to Initiate a move la the diiertum
of peace proposals was iiiiuII.it coin
cidence. State Department officials, lifter mak
ing Informal denials of the Gerard toiy
for the last week, took notice of it of.
flclally for the flist time to-day bj Is
suing Uils statement
"We have no reason to believe theie
he onlv Intended to say good-by to Mrs,
Gerard, who was salting for boine. and
nt the last hour determined to atrom
pany her when he leceli.sl liiMructlnna
from Washington take his vacation.
The only tnnglble element commted
with the story ,s u compbti. set of .1. -nlnls,
Still, It Is considered so circum
stantial and has been pieced together
from a ehnln of consecutive etnts In
such a way that It Is given a measure of
credence both lu Kurope and the l.'i.lud
Stale,
llsoii Mny Possess Ilia M-erel.
One possthlllly that stand nut Is ih.r
President Wilson, himself, may l.tnuv
! "Mile tcason for Mr. Gerald's home
11,111 1 1111 "'" ''"'' "l
I 11 irtmciit or the Gel in lit Aiiili.ii--.ailor
' , 7 , t .11, , 1
II is 0111 uiuiriiai IUI ine I'll'-ioeni !
i ui at mi
lial dltis'tly with the Aineticaii dlplo.
mats In the war son., ami lu nun- In-
stances he has safegnaided hi coin-
inunlwillons from publicity by coding
and uncodlng the despatches personall . ' Hi i lli Admiralty, It Is understood, w 111 bulletins lost Intel est In ihe game foi
It Is being pointed nut that while Mr j iiinia-illately take measures to nieM the the time lielng .mil taiud for the van
Gerard mny not be hrln-ilng any i ispn M I Munition tinle. dellulte Information Is tage points along the waterfiout In the
from Kmpeior Wllllnm for 1'iesldeiit forthcoming from the United States Guv-' hope of getting n view of the boat, while
rvilenti's Intercession, he might have ei nmetit that American harbors are to other hired launches and other i raft to
knowledge tint the Kmp ror would not,1" 'b'lilrd to ho-tlle tlerman V boats. B 0ut Into the bay.
reject a new offer made enllt.-ly upon' Tl"' e-insequences -,f a refusal em the ' M few niliuins before J V M
the Inltlntlie of the I'lilled Slates. Slu- lnrl tl'l" loveintneiil to accede to that tho I' Ml was Hist sighted. Tim
deiils "f diplomacy point nut that the e ' Hre.it llrllaln's tequest would not be of 'lookout at the 1't'ce.s Neck life saving
ate many ways In which 11 i.emv mole- j raVl' importance diplomatically. Inter-I station lu re was the Hist to r.o hii.
ment might be set afoul wlthoti' affect- nnllon.il law, It Is held, would beThero had been a t umlier of the Aniei
Ing In the least the otllcl.il ilenl.iu f 1 s'u Uely on the side of the L'nlted States. , jean suhnmtlnc mainetii ring oft llren
tin. cuneiit tor. I the tuactlcil eousequence would be. ton's lleef llghtshli during the day and
'PI... nir,lnl .1 t...,w.t,.u ., !,., .o-.l.... .
t. tl ul.l... .r.. r..l.l l.t. .Ili.ln..,..
UI. ... !. I tl.A l,elllL.rreiit. n-r. .villi.,,.
is as wnai me neinisrreiiis u-e wining
havo umiouncvd to the woild. merely
a screen for their real positions which
to
as u screen for their real pus:
ire being held In tesnie
GERARD ENGAGES SUITE
Ambassador Will He Neiir
Hern.
lorn" in ' llllr- ilrlloii.
Ambus nlnr James W Gerard and Ins
parly will occupy the suite suite .it the
liltz-i'.itltou during hl-s slay In Nnw
Voik, lie I expected to aiT.ve from
Gerinnny Tuesday. The suite was til-
gaged esteulay by United Stales Mar
slutl McCarthy.
Count von Ilernsloiff, the German
.,.
ha.sador, makes his heaibiuaiteis at the
'in.
Itltx-Cnrltoti when lu New Yuik.
POPE FEELS HURT.
' l."eiita Incorrect .IoiIkiiiciii
... !
I
m. pprnl fur Pence.
Uomk, Oct, 7. 1'ojie Hcneilld, m ti
letter to Cnrdlnal von llnitiii.iuu, Arch-
bishop of Cologne, nud oilier i lerinaii
Aichblshops, laments that lib- invitation'
It. behalf nf peace has given rise tn siis-
iilclon on nun side ami open nlTeinti on
tho other, ns llioituh, the leiier says, in -
1 plead nf being dictated by an nidi in de -
, elm lo settle thu quarrel Jusll nnd
rightly, II had been dlftuted be Hie hope
of securing advantage to himself
Thu letter closes with n prnjcr that
peace may soon return.
SUBMARINE AT
MAIL TO YON BERNSTORFF;
POTS OUT TO SEA IN 3 HOURS
CAPITAL FORESEES
017 X 17inUfP0 AFE IT 0
oca riunio urr u, o.
U-.":, Helieved to lie Only One1
of Fleet to Attack Allied
Munition Ships.
PJIOTEST iiv SP1UX(-HH',E
PriH.ili Ambassador Acts on
News of (ierman Suit- .
marine's Arrival.
' U ASIliNilTON. fl.'t. T. Ar 1 Kill uf lilt-
' Oi rtivin naval sutmiarlno r-53 at New
i pnrt regarded In Wa-hlngton as the
' ..... ,..... , i , ,.-i-
"r" ln '""I'a'K" to brine the
w"r Amerlean slioiej.
' On diplomatic advices Is b'laed the ex-
I ,.,.., i,. n,..; .i.. . ..,
' w ...... " "i..i
It leaven port will take up n position In
the Atlantic steamship lanes with lh
object of Intercepting ships laden with
miltlltlfinu f.l,. Ill V. il.l.l. AIIIa. Tn.
fotmatlon has been 'tecelved Indicating
that It may be regiude.l as the forerun.
ncr of other vels of tho same type
sent nut on n wiirllk" mission, which
may reult In the destruction of muni-
Hon carriers almost within sight of
New York.
News of the HUbinaiir.e's arrival was
Hashed to the Navy Iicpartment this
iLi'tivu u iiiu ,aT iiepariineni
afternoon and cid a decided stir at
the State Department. ,"ien eiurieu micr tier hau illlllculty
Acllng Secretary I'olk hid no eooner 1 ln 1("u!n "l1 with her pace. When
learned of !t than Sir Cecil Sprlng-ftlee, she dlsapiM fiied frm tho vlii of ob
the Hrltlsh Ainbador, called to tsk" I ... ,
the tlrst st..r. in the nre.cnt.u on of nn "cm, "" hl"" "u" runnhiit
I :niphiitl protest on tM.hdlf of the Urlt -
,i,,,'rn"1","1' n l"rmlttlng tho
V,.eK..I til lll.tllltl tfllf.llll... 'I hn.rl.'nn
Potts.
1 ..
r.nn ruir.i nun 1 iinrni,
me poMiion of tireat Hrltaln I
iisi.iuei wiiu 111.11 uiKcii uy uiai liovcrn- innt ioucih"! lis find nn Ami rleati soil
nieiit In tho esses ar.stm: out of the call 1 was tho i-ut.itiiandliii: ..flier, l...t -of
Gei nun mbn-.iirhies at ports In Spain, rv,nt Ht.,u ttr... 1 . . 1 .
Ni way and MM.-deu. Great Ilritaln , "anH ' 0H"' n1n'1 for only a
contended the commerce de.troyora ",nort u,np " "ttr VW"is his nspn ls to
could not Iw iwrmltted to enter jnd '"e ranking Fiilted States titival otllcer
leave neutral harbors, and this conten- here. Rear Admiral Austin M. KnUht.
Hon was upheld. 1 C. R. N laimmandaiit of tho Second
Ihe ii.shm.II of deciding on the Hilt-
sh piotest w.n ululated by the quick
dipartun' of the submersible from New-
pott. The HiltUh AinbassHilor, how
j ever, it Is iindei stood will irtkke the Incl-
ueiii ion nuns inr h requesi irom nis
.. .. .. .
, i,n 1 1 nmcni mat no other German wnr
' stilnnarlnes be permitted to enter Amer
lean ports. Whether the Department
will nn-ede to th leiiiict N somen I1.1l
doiibtfnl,
The thought Uppermost In the minds
of nfficlnls hero Is the object of th esub-
marines visit. It Is realUcd that the
' boat will at once loom up ns .1 terror of
the seas to shipping. From sources close
to the German Government It Is Intl-
mated the t'-5J will he Joined hy other
I.' boats und will be m a position to re-
I main for months In the steamship lanes
picking out eefeM as prey.
Bnrred Prom l for !! Mouths.
The rules of International law forbid
the t'.T.S's return to a Cnlted States port
within tnrse mouth, but naval of fleets
! believe It will not be a difficult matter
to keep her supplied with fuel nnd food,
All the submatlue needs to keep at
sea lor a lengthy period Is oil and food
for the crew. Naval oillcers say she
might easily obtain food from ships at
sea either by first destroying them or
slmpl-v holding them up for these sup
plies In the ease of enemy ships this
would not be cnntriry to the rules of
war. As to fuel oil or gasoKtle which
ever u Used she would have to depend
for her supply on sjmpathlicis from
si, rue, who. winking in conjunction with
German agents, might attetunt to tend
HUppllea at Intervals to the vessel.
' No secret Is made of the fa.-t ilia', tills
, I'roceduie. though pi act .cable from the
Germ in vlewnnliit. would at nrce trntm.
r 1 .., V
10110 101 .111110111' CO.INI one into me
seen.- nf Gernuiu military iicllvlty
The British Ambassador lias a!
Tin' HritMi Aiiibassador has already
cabled 10 the British Foreign Ofllt.- con-
, "'thing the submarine's niilval. and the
in ,i.iiip. i .ii .uiiriu.in ..aifl.f IOIO 11 HO-
Called WlirZIIIU
I f HcrnMII sUbtll.lMIII-h are til
i ... ... .. . ....
J"""' tn''r e"k' Tnrts
, f''""' ' "Ln... .r.V. ,,,rn.
I "' ". "" """"i" ni uniior the tpu or the .ineiicuu po.ii. it
Piosimnj or ine-e Kns ror tne purpo.e i waR larger than imy ! the suinparlnes
of protecting the munition ships. hor,. ni ,). Getui.in naval ling was
It Is regarded .is of prime Importance 1 ,., noatlng In the biveze
bv (ireat Hrll.iln that the ships be
prntc'ted mid a considerable naval foiee ' slKUleil hy Moerlenii Wiirslilp,
will If nccessar be devoted to this pur- i ... . . . ,
.o.e A flotilla of British destroj ers will . "';' ."I'l'mnrli.e kepi .... I . . ns,. past
probably stall for these waters , Mhe lightship and l.u.,1. , I for the mo ,.,
oilier Hrltlrh naval craft designed to ' ?f .N"rr"t"ur , -,.V .V i'""
hunt submarines may soon be patrolling ' ,nnt" ,A1""," ''',"" Amerietn
the Atlantic must submarine D-2 which :w in i:io uvrlng
U tho German Ktnbissy It was said'0"' ,"" l'B'hH'- l '''i,', "!' l rl'';"
Count von Hernstornr. the Gennnn Am. , u'"1 offered tn eoiivov h. r Into pit T hn
I hass.idor. ..nil Prior, lliuiiviil li,....,.i,.i .
leave for Neunoit to coiigratiilnie il.
' siibniHrlne (omtnander. but laterchaneerl
j their plans when the.i heard the ve-stl
had departed
ASKS INVALID TO BE PREMIER.
i
(IreeL King's en in Veteran
Siiilesmnii la Vain.
Athi'.mh, via Loudon, Oct, 7. Klmr
I t'onstantlne pei-rimallv called at tbn
home of Dlonyelio. Stephanou to-dav und
nsked the aged statesman, who 's 111
nbnl, tn form n Cabinet. The political
' nctli Hies of sk plmmm date from Hie
1 time ol the great Gieek Premier M
Trleoupls, lu whose Cabinet In 1 -'.i 1-9 Ti
lie was Minister nf I'oreicn Aft ills.
Mr. Steplianiui told tli King that he
was fin ill lo i,sume the heavv duties
of Premier
NEWPORT;
Cant. Hans Hose. Only Man
Ashore, Pays Respects to
Admiral Kniylit.
JJOVP Ol'T 17 1)YS"
HAS :i MONTHS FOOD
Mysterious Visitor Disti)-
, Dears After Showinir Heels
to Harbor Fleet.
WARSHIPS OFF COAST
IN PKIUL OF ATTACK
Destination of I- Officers
ami .: Men on Submers
ible Is I'nkiiown.
NW,,"T. Ii. r.. Ool. 7,-One of the
a,,ran navy's war aubtnerslbl. s,
lne L'-S'. P'Hd ii fb-etlng visit to Narra.
' Ransett Hay thl.i afternoon, wllpplng In
J unannounced nt o'clock nnd depart-
. lux again ns dtiietK- as slm 1 ..'i m n In
shortly after ,". nVlook.
The submarine made fast tlmo down
v..i,,. . ., ,1 ... ...
i ,h" h"rW "ml the of ma"
: awash wlto r.o Mun of an Intention of
' submergln
Immediately. Her den-
' tlmtlon ..
mit revealed. Wltr 1
near the three mlht limit the tr-33 uh
merged nnd was lost to slBht.
ie only one of the (-hip's cimipnny
nuva) district nnd nresldent nf 11,.,
Nnv.il War Coll-ie
Messiiae fur on llcriisliirrr.
Commander Hnso .xplalnfd that t 1,1
submarine, whli h Is n legnl.ir .war
vessel and e.piippi-. with wlteless, had
put In here only to dellwr ntllclal mall
ror '"e Gep-ian A111b.1ss.1dor lie de-
1 olined to say whethet he had been or
deiej to American wateis to search for
I 'be Orman mercliiint eubmarltm
urenien. long cueiiiue 0,1 this slile. The
t'-.".1 flew Ihe German naval ei-slcn nnil
cnirled guns mounted on her deck.
The newspaper man w.m h.,arded tho
undersea craft was a ksd ., bring
ashore a pickage of ntllclal mall tor
Count von Hrrntorft. the German Am
tmsador. nnd tills is fm wauled t
aftbanoon.
While not disposed to d.scuss the de
tails of his loy.ig,. Coimuaniler Hoe
said that he lad a siillleletit supply of
food aboird to last for thri'o months
She had been out -evintecn days from
Wllhelmshaven. Besides the commander
tho vetsel carried four oillcers nnd
thirty-three men. The r-.U was escorted
In the harbor by the t'nlted State, nib
marine D-2.
The l'-J3 appeared spick and ipan
upon her arrival here and looked as If
shn had been out oui for tn.inieuvres.
Her commander repoitnl he had not
sighted any hostile craft on his voyage
over, adding that nothing would be
taken aboard le-re.
All Tlionghl It Vn llremen.
Arrival of the C Sil i.iused woTewhat
of a stir here for as s sin n. U bcami
known that a foielgu nibmiriue was
poking her nine 01 the uy tne report
spread that It was the Ion-: looked for
and expeete.1 Bremen or one of the other
German submarine iiieich.ititnieti.
Hs-ebnll fans In front nt ll.e newa.
' rmner nnti-es w.uehing the world's scriew
!ft tlrst
bt It was thought that tho
submatine that was seen appioaclilng
,MI ,,,,,,.,,,
, The boat hid not pro,.ed.-,t far. how-
''v' M"" ,h" 1 11 u'" nl
i OITer was accept, d ami -lie 1 fol
1 'owed the Ann Mean h...i' ,nto tin bay
Tll, " - "'pnttcil ! in
Tile destiny.
els also lepniieil, so th.u ,u a few inln.
Utes after the boat I -1 ' i p' I ed nil
Heuv Ailmllal Kn'flit I lb or Ailm'r.i,
Albert Gleaves. the roiiiiii.niilt ig ofll. er
of tho ilf"ttni- lli.t.ll.i I id I it lip.
prised of the appro.i.-i.-tig li i -giicr
The D-'J show id the v.iv i. Urn west
ward of the naval twin do -'a'.. which
s loealisl on Gnat Nlinil on, I the boat
riimc to anchor ub mt sue mi. nf thu
west side of the Island The i 'fleers a tnl
some of ihe i rew weie on tlx ,lrck when
h boat in nn m 'I'hey wire In mil
form of the German navy l" ugh wom
of the sailors were wearing oilskin,
t One of the tlrst to board tho vessel
i after she had arrived was Harbor Ma
lir and Health Ofllcer Tliomas Shea tf
this city, who had hurried off in his
motor boat as soon as he Irariuil the
boat was onterlug Ihe bav, He was we!-
