i'
Frank Carpenter
Look f?r Mil Alaska Letter in
the Sunday Timcs-Dispatch
fUdjtticmd Cxme^Ptepatclj
Fix Your Own Car -
Gucrrlich, in the Sunday T.-D. |
Will Tell You How
66th YEAR
vom;.mk do
.M! >1111011 itsu
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1916. ?SIXTY PAGES.
wk \-i*111:it
IM(iK I
-CLEAR
PRICE, FIVE CENTS
Brooklyn's Surprising Rally
Nipped Just in Time to
Save Game.
BOSTON TAKES OPENER
IN 1916 WORLD'S SERIES
Dodgers Within a Run of Tying
Scorc, and With Bases Full,
When Last Man Is Out.
HOTH TKA.MS STI1J, COM'IDKVr
l*la> of American League Champions
!?? Far Superior to Thai or Na
tional League Opponents.
ROSTi ?.V. October 7. ? Tho lioston
American l.eague club triumph. <1 over
? he lirooklyn Nationals here this af
'ernoon, r, to if, in the first cam? of the
131? worlii'; series, but iiia-rreil their
victory by skidding badly in the ninth
inning. For fuH eight Innings, the ,
thirty-odd thousand spectators watched
? ho junior league champions romp |
through their National liCngue rivals '
'o a lead of ?'? to J. Th"ii suddenly tho |
?'arrigan machine beg m to slip and tho i
fighting Dodgers awoke to new life, |
driving Krnesi Shore from ih< i>o\, '
a massing four runs and having i|i<> i
bases crowded when Shortstop Scott
? ?iidcd tl... game b> throwing .Jakoj
I?aubert out on a vcrj close phiv a;
llr.st.
'iliis surprising rally or the team
from Oreater New Vork was th- f-a.
tur<- of an otherwise ordin n-. 1..1II
game. i:-r.,i e th.. threatening rush of
'he Sup'rlia.s developed in tii?yr tin;. I
lutti a? bat tin .mit.st appeared t>.
Indlcati- that tin Host oil players w.Mihl
swlnr tbrotiu'li I.. ci'mucst anii
ih<* startling break in 1,1. m. ;..J> work
??f th< local .lull furnished tin- thrill
needed in li.v tin- ni-mor\ ?? r th. ^trui;
ule in the munis of the fans
.When Daubert. the first Hrooklvn
bat .unan, stopped to the platt m the
opening huif -f u?.
spectators were beginning t.. |,.nv,. 1
- nc1,1- '???t th..-\ hal'.ed in th, .1
'racks as shore passed j,Superbt,
?a;.'am. and Stcrgvl so. 1 |,im
with a .single A lone lirooklyn rooter,
begin, lo beat upon a tm pan, ami here'
and t .ere w .1. crirv of encouragement
for the National l,,i?uo ohnmpior..-. but
tlir < hr*f*r>- ?;{??.| ;uv;i\ ;? ... f,?|v .
I Gilbert a t tliini
IIOSTON , ANS ,|oxl;
? MIAMId IV tiii:ih S|.;n>
Shore however. . ouhl not control Mie j
ball, and hit ?,ut*linw. Mown arose)
." wilt bounder. whirl.
v "" '?"??hi not handle, and St.., ...1
and W heat s,- while Ibe Uoston
to move uneasiI\ in th-ir
Tl,..r fears gr.w who r'lSOM .
out an 11,field hit and the-.
Nearcely relieve,! when ."hi. f Mover-I
fotilnl out.
M-'kle. hatting for If. nr. r. outwit
? I M.ore and walked, forcing h,
Tl " ' ,,Ur,, nf l"- ""dng
n.or- w?. not a sound f, o,? ,ho . ?
sands when Manager ,,er", !
M.ou, from the box and substituted:
.Myers. ltr.,okiyn? lead-off batter '
?-latched an infield I,it. .scoring Mow' !
'?>?? ?nd .he .Vat ion a is were '*,* ?* *
run. of tying the score, with the I. ?
shortstop spon ro#l iho 1 . n
leaped from the ?lrf. ?m, ?? 'J
litzeM ? ",5hl' Wh,f'"C" to Hoi- (
J*"*'?- S'li,liMe i"'" bag he.M,
^;;/v,r;hc ,,an
hag. .signaled the third?o'ut"
and ended the game. ?
SHOW s HH.SOl?rKS mk iu:|j sov
M ,,KV V VI,I:'? I'llKNSrilK
" was the climax that showed the
resources oC the 11...1 . ,,,e
tm. neti jiox when imilor
Sromi"r;hc ?",v
Helder Harry Hooper uncovered" U,e,
st;.r individual ?"?V, the dav in
l,h ln""^ ?l,eJ he made a great
gunning catch of ^ut.shaws twisting
"? J Wheat trying to score!
from third. Hooper had to sprint well
mer toward the Toul line just back of!
first base before he could get his hands
on the hall The ? effort caused liini
' S,1r lo ""f in a sitting posi
tion hut he was up like a flash, and
while still rising hurled tho ball
straight as a hullet to fade. The In
ter shimmed it on Wheat s ankle' is
he reached for the plate with I,is root1
at the end or a perfect hook slide
This thrilling catch and throw and the
"?nth-inning rally or the vampiished
lirooklyn team Were the outstanding
real tiros <?r the first game or the se-'
ties, which attracted a gathering or
baseball rollowers that numbered r.G.
117. and paid into the coffers of the
world's series fund ?7ll, isft..*>??.
Neither the attendance nor the re-i
ceipts equaled the record day of a year1
ago. when -T-MSOO spectators witnessed
virtually the same team defeat the
I'lilla.lelphlas, 2 to 1. i? gfl0 ,,llr(, (.i(ino
or that series, hut to-night tho plavers '
are richer hy 1.304.3;!. while the clubs i
each have 11.1.768.1 1 and the national!
.commission ST.fi-iS.',.- to add to their
several bank accounts.
There was little evidence of this
sliKht railing off in -ittendnnce. how
ever, ror the setting ror the game was
up to the standard or past world's
scries. The day was cleat1, with J??'(
a touch or autumn In the air, and u
breeze which came out or the north
east. without enough rorce to It to In
terfere with the fielding or long, higli
hlt. bulls. The sun, however, bothered
the outfielders badly at times, and sov
(Continued on I'a go 2~ I'arta".)
Steamer Antilla
on Fire at Sea
Many Passengers Reported on
Board and Cullers Hasten
to Rescue.
NKWPOHT Ni:\VS, VA., October 7
A wire lows message, picked up here
shortly before o'clock to-night from ,
tIt*: steamer Antilla, stated the steamer!
was siIIre 120 miles off the Virginia
capos, ami that her crew was taking to
I he lifeboats. The steamer Someiset.
vvhlili was twenty-live miles from ih?*
Antilla. proceeded to hoc rescue.
The c??!ist-guard cuttera Onondaga
ami Apache also have left to aid the
burning steamer. The . Antilla is a
Wsird liner, unci is reported to haye
si large number of passengers aboard.
The message of the Antillsl's acci
dent was picked up by the wireless
operator sit S:!5t o'clock. It wsis
directed to the coast-guard station at
Cape liensy. and asked that cutters lie
sent at once to the steamlrr s aid. Af
ter stating that the vessel was on fire
the. message ssild. "All on bosird are
taking to boats."
The Onondaga and Apache immo
diately were dispatched to the loca
11ci11 given in the message.
Shortly after the first message was
picked up the wireless operator stated
either* twenty-six or twenty-seven
ships hail taken up the call ami were
spreading it brosidcust. offering to go
to the aid of the burning ship. and
directing vessels they believed to be
closer to the AntiVIa to proceed there.
One vessel whose name was missed by
the land station in the confusion se
cured sin answer from the Antilla
shortly sifter !? o'clock, when she in
quired whether there w ei e pas.-cnyers
aboard. The reply said "yes." but
gave no details or numb'-i Tin- Som
erset. which is said 10 be closest to the
Antilla wirelessed that at '?*: ^? sin was
proceed ng under full stesim to the
location ttiveti is> th?* lirst message
from the Wsird liner.
At 10:1o'clock ii nothei message
from tlx- Antilla Mat* d that the pas- j
sentrers and most of the crew a 1 rr a dy
bad taken to th?? small boats, and that
tl>.> wireless operator expected to be
forced to leave at ???>> minute He
urged boats coming to the aid <?f tlie .
steamship to hurrj
I iirrlcH I rrn of l'orl.*-*Ui
NKW YOUK. October 7.?The steam*
ship Antilia sailed from Ouantanamo.
Cuba. '>ri .September .10 foi New ^ orU.
She was In loinmand of ?'hpishii I'.lack
adder , and curried si crew of fort> -six.
The vessel is owned b\ the New \ ork
and I'ub.i Steamship Company. Her
gross tonnage is and slie is
feet long. Kormerly she was under
r.ritlsli registry, and was known as the
I.nristan
OJIlcisils of the company said to-night
the> listd received si messsige saying
that the vessel was lire, hut giving .
no details The Antilla, thev said, was
loaded with suu'su and lumber.
HAWKHEAD BADLY DAMAGED
IIri11>li Simmer, Itnnuncd. Ha* ItlittKcd
llole in St;i rlmn ril
(Innrler.
NKW I'OUT NKWS. VA ? ?? tob. r T
The l'.r:ti?h steamer Ilsiwkhead. rami e.i j
in Norfolk harbor last night by the
bay steamer City of Norfolk, was tow< d
here this morning sind went to She
shioyard for repair.-. A preliminarj
examination nisu'.e by divers, shows
that the stesiiner more I?:? d 1 d.im
aped tInn at lirst supposed. She has ?
:i ragged bole in her starboard ipiarter. I
Csiptain Krsink Hand. iii.-.ster of the
llnwk'nead. declined to discuss the sic- |
cid^nt until he has conferred with the j
shin's counsel \11 light? were tils- ,
played, he says, however, and the tlrsi .
Ir.tlmsi Won of the bay steamer's pres
ence was a resounding t rash which ;
brought the entire tew to the tinie r ;
<lerk
POPE TALKS OF PEACE
Writes to Million Tlmt I'lfforU lluvi i
\ routed I invnrriinteil
Suspicion.
KiiMK, ? ictober 7 - Tlu I'ope bus :ul- !:
dressed si letter to Cardinal llsirimannj
and other (!?rman bisliops on llse o. ? ?
casion of their annual meeting :?'
I'ubla. The Pope complains again that '
his peace efforts have aroused unwsir- j
ranted susp.icitm, sis if he had boen |
prompted by the hope of deriving per- ,
sonal benolit
The I'ope add*' that the present ex- j
citemerrt prevents many from realizing!
thsit the I'ontilT. as vicar of Christ rind
father of all. must exhort peace In !
fsivor, not of part, but of the whole, j
of humanity. The letter will appear j
in i he next issue of the llol.v See organ. :
WIDELY KNOWN INVALID DEAD
Mr*. I'I ore nee I. Dntclier Hurled at
Krnuvllle, >llrh.? llliiid. INirnl >"/.eil
nml Ileiif for .tinny Year*.
KKNN VI U.K. MICH., October 7.?
Florence I. Imtcher. fifty-two years of
sige. sin invalid of national fame, was
buried here to-day. Many persons
from various parts of (he country at
tended Iho funeral.
Mrs. Dtiteher, a wealthy philan
thropist. was blind, paralyzed and al
most desif for many years. Unable to
open her mouth, she received nourish
ment through a broken front looth.
JEWS PRAY* FOR PEACE
Special Intercession* Offered In I'on
n eel ion Willi Celelirnl inn of
^ Their Xeiv Year.
NKW YORK, October 7.?Special
prayers for peace were offered in thou
sands of synagogues here, throughout
the country'arid in other lands in con
nection with the'celebration of a Jew
ish New Year. The day is one of con
slant prnver. including the prayer for
the. dead which marks the ending ??f
the Day of Atonement.
\iiitiii*l personally enndilcled Kxeur*lpn to
\pw York via & U. and Hid Uoinlnlon.
i.olive Richmond 1:00 P. M.. .SnturrtMy. Oct.
H. >13.00 round trip. Limit 10 day?.
WILSON APPEALS
TO INDEPENDENTS
Asks Their Support Becausc of
Party's Ability to Accom
plish Something.
CRITICIZES G. 0. P. OLD GUARD
By Inference, President Attacks
Both Charles E. Hughes and
Theodore Roosevelt.
I.oNi; lllUNi'll. X. .1.. October Ite
tm-iiii it from hi;- llr.-t invasion of the
Middle West since the campaign opened.
i'ivsi"!ent Wilson to-day appealed to
independent voters to support the Rent- j
1 ociaiic party in Novcmbi i oil tho|
tii'/iiml sliiit it presents a united front j
(or Mi<- pa/sage of progressive legisla
t i ? ? 11. v. 11 i I ?* i lie Republican party is'
made up of discordant elements which !
'?in1 accomplish nothing.
<i t icissi iik t H c Old (itjard of the Re- I
publican parly, the President, l?.v in
f.-i-.-nce. attacked both Charles K.
Hughes and Theodore Roosevelt. *.?nd
declared thai A-bile i vory line of his
national policy h;'.s been assailed, "no
diagrams have hecn drawn of any
other."
.Mi. Wilson charged that I he "Old
Huard" was in control of the hist
Republican convention, and "marie all
the choice? that were made by that |
convention."
The President spoke to a delegation
? >{ Progressives, independents and col
lege men who came here in a private
train ami inarched to Shadow Lawn. ;
with ;? bar.'I playing popular music,
while they ?aiig a soi.^ with the r-c
fi ? in
"He's kept us out <-f war."
Mr. Wilson ?vas introduced by I'io- ;
fessor Irving Fisher, of Yale, a mem- '
ber of ilie Roosevelt (.'oiiscrvatiou Coin- ?
mission, and ilugh iordon Miller, a j
N'ew York Progressive. who denounced j
the leader.- of hi?- party \\ ho have K->ne
ovr r to tiie Republic.*n.?. In the dele
gation also was th< "Wilson ???iard."
made up of former football st.*?is
\*r rnrni \i. .it \<"rrni-:
IN \KKAIKS OK Willi I.I)
I 'i e-irlei't Wilson's speech here to
day was in part as follows.
"We are indeed at a critical junc
ture in the affairs of the world. :? it<I
the affairs of the world touch America
very nearly. . . .
"And in tiie midst of tin.- situ ition :
we are about to determine whether we i
>;linl! rliange the line of our national
policy. Kvery line of that * natfoiial
polio iias been 'iiiestioneo. but no i
diagrams have been drawn of any!
other; every one of tiie lines projected
in the last three and a half years has I
been questioned and condemned.
"Fortunately, the lines of this cam
paign have recently ben becoming
very clear indeed. . . . On the one hand,
there is j, party which is united, made
<u> of congenial elements, ami which
has determined its direction by its
performances am1 noi by its promises.
^ oil know what the Democratic party
ha- accomplished. . . .
'<?n ihe other hand, what have we?
!t battles description. .Men of ov?ry I
sort ami varie'y of purpose. i will
not say united, but associated, for an
tin.i vowed object. More interesting
than that and more ominous than that,
shot through with every form of hitter-j
ness. every ugly form of hate, everv ,
debased purpose of ravenge ami every |
covert desire to recover secret power.
\N hat would happen if the Repub-j
lican party should succeed on the 7th
of November? The only articulate I
voice. a very articulate voice, professes
opinions and purposes at which the
rest in private shiver and demur. . me
branch of that parly . . i,;,eked . ?: ?,
car.dW.ite for the United States Meruit.
In the State of New York. ? man who.
a\ owed position in respect of interna
tional affairs was unneutral and whose
Intention was. if he became a member
ot ti'iat great council upon interna
onal-arraiiK at Washington to promote j
the interest of one side in the pres
ent war in Kiirope.
Itl'.VKHSAI. OK I'OIJIV,
fiioji to u
I herefore, we are warranted in |,0.
liexii.K that ,f t lie Republican partv
should succeed, one very large branch
of it would insist upon what its leader
has insisted upon?a complete reversal
of policy?and in view of the support j
the candidate I have referred to in New
'eceived. that reversal of policv I
can only he a reversal from peace to |
war. If. they <]n not engage in such!
a reversal of policy, they ma.v expect
war in their own ranks. . . . There
would be new raids upon Republican i
majorities, such as their territories and !
assets seem constantly exposed to. and
? t would be impossible not to bring
about such a breach as would lead to
utter confusion in the counsels of the
nation because there are other cle-j
incuts in that party which are looking
exactly in tlie opposite direction, whose
sympathies and intentions are iu the i
sharpest contrast with those that I
have mentioned.
"And then, back of all. quiet, self-'
confident, knowing Hie game better!
than anybody else, sit the men who j
really have the organization and coil- j
trol of the Republican parly iu their
own possession?Hie Old tiuard ? the
men who al any rale afford us this
advantage of controversy: we know
where to find them. They are alwjiys
in the same place. They always in
lend the same tiling. They always
have the same?I was about to say
idea Is, hut I will not misuse a hand
some word?the same conception of
what politics is for, an<l who know, to
make a well-known quotation, 'exactly
what they want.' . . . .Vow we know
tho alliances of these gentlemen; we
know that they intend nothing but con
t *ol of their own ad van: kc, and that
llie people of the I'nitcd-Slates, when
they intervene in their affairs, are re
garded as guilty of an imperti
nence.
"The I. niicil Slates has now to
choose whether it will have a govern*
(Continued on ^Ixlh X'age.)
GATES OF.OBJAIR ;
OPEN TO-MORROW;
Every Detail in Readiness for
Starting of Eleventh An
nual Exhibition.
great crowds expected
Only Unfavorable Weather Can,
Now Mar Demonstration of
Virginia's Progress.
? Ii" finishing touches to the stage
se'tincs for iii,. eleventh annual exhi
bit irm <>f the Virginia State Fair Asso- '
elation. at the Fair Grounds west of I
the city. will |,e completed by sun- ;
down (ins evening, and to-morrow;
niiiirii.i^ at ;? o'clock the turnstiles will
l?e ready receive the thousands of
visitors from every suction of the
State, who lam night had begun to '
crowd the hotels and boarding-houses
?? this city. 1
? ?e fence mi either side of the mile
a< ?: course has been whitewashed, and
cr.i h <.f th? posts painted brilliant red.
giving a pleasing contrast to the green
held. v. herein the framework for the
'Battle of i "onsiantinople" has been
ret
Director Anderson, of the amusement
committee, has made a change, in that .
the "Six Water Lilies." the graceful
i i\in^ girls, will he located between
the stage* in front of the grand stand
and 'litis brought into clearer view of
the spectators. To the north of the ?
stages the framework for the "diving
horse and d<>n ' has been set up. while
to th'- south is j|JC framework for Mile.
I.aBelle and "I 'are-Devil" Hurley, who
will do the sensational loop-the-loop >
in an automobile.
All arrangements have been made '
SO a lo give the people in the amphi
theater a good view of the stage per
form# r.-\ as we|| ns of the race ,track
anO t-tceplechase course, and especially
?f utts life-risking biplane loops and
'? "f Miss Katherine Stinson. She
g:v! aviator, wlio will cive exhibition:;
every afternoon and nighi. the night
tliifhts being brilliantly illuminated and
discernible for miles.
iiru.mvr; run
WOMAN'S m:i? \ HTIIH.N'I' j
The large building in front of the i
< ounty Exhibit nuilding. at the Brook I
Boad entrance, has been turned over
t ? the woman's department, because '
tiie space hi the Industrial Flail for ,
this exhibit was entirely inadequate
Miss Coleman. the superintendent, said
yesterday tha( she was i?ore than
pleased with the increase In num
bei o. exhibits, and the promptness
with which they were delivered 10 the
Krounds, giving her and her assistants
ample time to shape the thousands of
articles into the greatest display ever'
shown. Along one side of the build
ing is displayed fancy work of every
description, while on the other side is i
.? display of jellies and preserves, the
whole being a wonderful assemblage,
showing the handiwork and industry of
the women of Virginia.
To-morrow is scheduled as general
visiting and sight-seeing da v.
Tuesday is "Petersburg. Norfolk.
Newport News and Portsmouth Day."
N ednesilay is "Richmond Day."
Thursday is "Farmers' Dayf
I* riday will he "Children's Day."
Saturday will be "Automobile Dav"
HACKS TO STAHT AT
NOON ON TlliSUAV
The first races of the week will start
at noon on Tuesday and continue eat h
day until Friday evening. On Satur- :
day the race course will be the scene
of various automobile races and stunts, I
in addition lo the many free attrac
tions of the week, which include the
specials mentioned above ami the Dan
ube*. in casting acts; the Tasmanian
van Diemaiii?. aerialists: Nettie Carroll
and Company, wire artists; Albers's
Polar Bears, in various acts, and many j
other attractions.
As a special feature for Saturday
night. General Manager Saunders an
nounces a wrestling match between
Ed "Stiangler" Be wis arid Hercules,
"the Delaware Giant." Hercules Is
reputed lo lie a wrestler of great skill'
and physical strength, and is expected
to give the popular Kentuckian a hard t
battle for the honors of the evening '
While the wrestling match and other ?
free attractions are being pulled off
Miss Si in so ii will do her loop-the-loop
act thousands of feet in mid-air. Each
night'." performance will close with a
great pyrotechnic display, concluding
with "The Battle of Constantinople."
President Fairfax Harrison will he
in daily attendance at the fair, and
will occupy box xo, 2.1 in the ainphi- !
theater, while Governor Henry C.I
Stuart will he in box No. 'JO. The de
mand for boxes has been active, and
indications are that by to-night all
will have been disposed of.
Besides ihe race horses in action on
(he course, C. |<. G. Billings, of Curie's
Neck Farm, will exhibit The Harvester
and Lou Dillon, the world-famed sire'
and dame, which now grace his stables
down on the .lames.
COMPETITION IS liEKV
IIKTWKKN fill; XT IKS
< om pet it ion is keen between the
counties making exhibits of products,
in view of the fact that (lie railroads
of the State have offered a special j
award of Sl.JOO, which will be divided
(Continued on Fifth ' Page.)
Automobile Day
Special Number
On nr.tl Wednesday Thr Times
? llspntcli will Immuc mi Illustrated,
colored supplement devoted lo (lie
motoring Interests of Virginia. This
section will contain I lie full program
for Automobile May at Hie State
l?*nlr, with mimes and entries for
eneli event. V olen or I h y features- i
will be h re* lew of lite automobile
industry and Its marvelous growth,
together with Hie latest Information
regarding the 1017 models.
German Submarine
on Three-Hour Visit
to American IVaters
Delivers Correspondence'
for Berrjbtorff then Dis
appears Beneath
Waves
XKWI'URT, H. I . October 7 - seven
teen (lavs from Wllhelmsha ven. the
lni|?eriiil German submarine '
dropped anchor in Newport harbor to
day. Almost before the officers of the''
American tleet of warship.'*, through
which the stranger had nosed her way.
bad recovered from their astonishment,
the undersea lighter had delivered a
message for the German ambassador
and. weighing anchor, turned Breritou's
Ueef Lightship and disappeared be
neath the waves just outside the three
mile limit.
She llexv the black and white colors ,
of the Germany navy, a gun was
mounted on the forward deck and
another aft. while eight torpedoes were
plainly visible under the forward deck.
lieutenant-Captain Hans Hose, corn- 1
/nanding the l7-f>3. said that lie had
called at Newport simply to mail a 1
letter to C*ount von Bernstorff. He re
quired neither provisions nor fuel, and
would be on his way. he said, long be
fore the twenty-four hours durim.'
which a belligerent ship may remain
within a neutral harbor had expired.
The .submarine was in American
?vaters a little more than three hours,
assuming that she continued in sea ,
after submerging.
Within that time the German com
mander paid ollicial visits to Hear
Admiral Knight, commandant of the
second naval district, and Heat-Admiral !
'Ilenves. commander of the destroyer,
force of the Atlantic Kleet. who was'
on board the flagship, the scout cruiser
Birmingham. Both American officers
returned the brief call promptly.
While these formalities were being
exchanged, wireless messages were
carrying to the ships of the British and
French tleet off the coast a warning
that a hostile submarine had slipped
through their cordon, ami mi^bt be ex
pected in the open sea soon.
I-TIAT OK ( AI'T.tIN ItOSK
?)\i: TOPIC OK CO.\ V Kits ATIO.N
.St the forts and the naval station j
th<- feat of Captain Mans Hose was the i
one subject of conversation to-night. j
ami there was much speculation as to'
iter mission ami whether it was con- [
lined to the postage of a letter to the!
Genuan ambassador.
There were rumors, without apparent:
basis, that the German merchant sub
marine Bremen, long overdue, might
be expected iti the wake of the war
ship. Some naval officers expressed
the opinion that the lighter had es-j
cor ted the. Bremen across the ocean,
and others that she was searching for
the merchant ship The first question
asked by Captain IJose when a motor- '
boat came alongside was:
"Have you heard from the Brelnen?"
When lie was told that there was no
news of the missing craft bis face be
came grave, but he made no comment.
To the naval men generally the most
interesting fact disclosed by Captain
Itose was that he had been at sea |
seventeen days and still had provisions )
for three months, abundant fuel and , ;
needed no repairs. Not so imtvh as a ' j
bottle of water was taken aboard, and ]
the ship was spick and st>an.
The C-iiS was first sighted i'ro.n land
at 1:1". o'clock this afternoon, as site
was entering the inner harbor escorted
b> the Cniteu States submarine D-2.
which was returning from maneuvers.
She sent a w ireless mes3nge to Admiral ; t
Knight, who notified the Navy Depart - i ,
incut at Washington. The American I ,
submarine preceded the visitor into the j (
harb.n N I
UMvt> WW THItOI till KI.KK'l
ok :i: i. s. \v\itsuips l
The first report had it that it was
the lireineti A newspaper nutn climbed
to the inu'i r of the United States en
gineers office ami with the aid of
j.|assi'.s made out two ^iins on the sub
marine. A few minutes !atcc he was
in a motor-boat. making for the craft,
and was taken nhoard The t'-."i:> had
made b?? r way throuuh tite tleet of
thirty-seven l'nited States warships, in
cluding destroyers and submarines, to
an anchorage, Captain Hose told the
correspondent tiiat he bad come in to
mail a letter to Count von Bernst orlf,
and tiske,I for the newspaper man's cre
dentials
The lalttr exhibited an Associated
Press iiadue. abd was intrusted with
the correspondence for the ambassador, j '
"Please forward this l?jt<er to Coimt
I'.ei nst oi if." .-:ii>d the captain, "ami re- '
poll my arrival. Tiie.v will be glad i ,
to hear it." . T
The earrespontience, contained in a j ?'
singb envelope, was mailed at the j"
local oost-oilii'e at o'clock, an.l should -s
have started for Washington about ail
hour l:;t?r It should be at t h German j J
eniliat-sj early to-morrow mo. uiug. '
Command-1 r liose appears to be abo.ii . *
thirty -eight of age. About him, as lie j ?
talked to the newspaper man, were! '
uroup'-d four officers and the crew of \
thirty-three Tin? officers were in the,
blue uniforms oi the ifcruian navy, and '
looked as if their clothes bail been t
brushed aim pressed for the occasion.
The crew wore black oilskin l.ieu
teuanf -Captain Hose wore Hie iron
erosf. ami other decorations. He said i
thai tliej had water and provisions for j '
t In ee niont lis. 1 I
pi:imn"ri:ii to ipum
? i
\II01T \T Wll.l. ON llO.V
Soon alter Hie I'-.'d! had nnehoreii, a . I
fleet of pleasure boats surrounded Her,' I
am.' several person*, including a iiiii??
bei of ivniiieii, were allowed to colli" j :i
aboard. Tie* were pciuiilted to roam' >
at Will I bout llie deck. II
The I ? >?' is sixty. Ii "o meters, or I
mere than feef in leri;yt'i. Willi a !
corresponding brain. She appeared i f
tConf lulled on iflxtli Page.) I t
Story Is Absolutely
Denied in Berlin
lit;It |,| V. (tcHilicr 7 ivbt l.nmlmi.
October s?.?Tin* ?l?r} *-l r?*?i In t ???l
nitron it Hint ?!??* Vmorleuif nntliM?<?
iltir, .Ilintt'M W. <i?*rjiril, I* I In* licjirer
of an appeal from Hie (irrmmi Km
peror for |irin*r Inlcrvrnlloii by I'"'
I nltril Slate*. Im il colored tmfliorltn
llvely lirre to l>e nb*olntcly "llli
ont foil mint Ion.
nJKIORS ML IT BOSS
(BOOT HEW PEACE MODE
Story Tlinl (.'ernrd Is ltriiiKiii? Direct j
Word to President for Kaiser
Is Persistent.
DI'T'lt 'I A I. DKMAI, IS ISSITKD
Drainatic Arrival of German Stihmn-j
rine With Dispatches for A in has-j
sailor .Inst liefore llis Visit to Wil
son Adds to Circumstantial Chain. |
W ASI11 N< JTON, October 7.?Ofltolal j
b-nials from ill I side- fail to down the
Im? i s i s i e n t reports that Ambassador j
JoimiiI, returnlnsi from Uerlln is j
Itrir.sing direct word from Kmperor j
William asking Presid. nt \Vil.son's In ? j
i .roession for p?-at ? ?
Mespite the fact Ilia! ?'mini von
?? i nut or If. i Ik- German ambassador, '
lias slat"d ho knows positively that Mr. j
'..?rani is cominu on no sucli mission, I
iid) Hi.* Stat.- Department wits moved j
Io-dii> li\ tin- pi-rsistentcy of the story I
i>. issue stit ofliciaI denial, it circulated |
iv idely in ollicial iiiul diplomatic cir- I
?les, iind was seriously discussed as a ,
liossibiliiy. 1
The nramutic arrivsil of the lirrmail j
will* submarine l'-f?3 tit Newport with 1
i package of dispatches for Count von
Iternstorif Just before he has an audi- 1
[Mice with President Wilson on Monday
uily scrvi d to add to the circumstan
tial chain of events upon which those
ivho believe the current story of Mr.
loiaril's home-coining base tiielr ex
pectation tliat some momentous devel
opment is about to take placa. The
? critian embassy to-night disclaimed
my knowledge < I the nature of the
lis patches or the mission of '.he sub
narine in American waters.
Stale Department officials, after niak- .
nu informal denials of the Gerard 1
-tory for the last week, took notice
>f it otllclally for the Hrst time to- I
lay by issuing this statement:
"Wo have no reason to believe there '
s any thing' in it, and every rrason t;
lelicve there is nothing in it."
I'llKSIIlK.XT >IH IIAVK IIIOAI.T
IHItl-'.ITI.V W ITH DIIM.miA'l'S |
' 'lie possibility that stands out is
hat President Wilson himself may
?now some reason for Mr. Gerard's
lome-eonilng that is not known to the
-late Department or the German ain
lassador, as it is not unusual for the
'resident to deal directly with the. I
linerican diplomats in ih<- war zone. j
Soon after the war began. and Prcsl
Icnt X\ ilson sent formal offers of med
ation to tho belligerents, ollicial intl
nation came from both sides that any!
iiitside interference would be resented, i
localise both sides wanted a perma-!
lent pence for Kuropc by the triumph
>f the principles for which each eon
ended. It was made known at the;
iVhite I louse on various occasions since
vheti peace movements were presented
>.v Individuals, that President Wilson
lid not think the time opportune for'
mother peace offer.
It is being pointed out that while!
ill*. Gerard may not be bringing any
equest from Kmperor William for
'resident's Wilson's intercession, he
niglit have knowledge that the Km
teror would not reject a new offer
nade entirely upon the initiative of the
'nited States. Students of diplomacy
toint out that there are many ways
n which a peace movement might lie
et afoot without affecting' in the least
he ollicial denials of the current story,
U is itii axiom in conducting: peace'
legot ia t ions that premature publicity
lefeals them, and those who believe
here is somethiim in the air at Ibis
ime are not losing sinht of it.
I'.asing their expectations on what
las gone before, competent observers
vould not be surprised to hear the
teace movement, when it does come,
iiiitotiucod with a record of definite
ccoinplishmenl of flie preliminary
leps necessary lo Us success
The official statements on flic sub
ed from all sides are regiirded bv il p
omatisis as what flie belligerents are
villiiiK lo hiive annotiiiceil to Hie world,
neroly a screen for their real posi
ions. which arc being held in reserve.
STEAMER GOES AGROUND
'ilium \ e^sel 1'aloiiiM lli'i'ls \\ iI It \e
elilenl oil' llotlle
Isln nil.
N't Hi !?*( ?l ,i\. '.'A. ? ???Wilier T. T!n' <"n
iaii siciimer 1'ahnmi went aground off
fodi. Island las. nihf. abo'il ????? .
iile? south of ?'ape Henry, durinu the j
i'iisc fug. Siie is under I In- muuaue
ik .I % lie Miiusou lane, and v\as on
ler Wiiv in in New Vork. having sailed
rum lliiif port on October 1
The Merrill >V ?'hapnian dei-rick
nil wrecking swamer Itesohife i !'l
.'ew VorU Ibis liori.inu lo'go to lfi<
id of if ?? I'alo.mi Sin- is not supposed
o fie In a II > immediate dni'-*cl.
The I'aloina hi<?? a cargo of r.'ai'sn- j
!?> fo| I'llllit. She is nl' ! il'i g i o.s j
ons, and is 281 feci lon:<. j
Capture Trenches From
Teutonic and Bulgarian
Forces in Dobrudja.
ROME REPORTS ANOTHER
INVASION OF BULGARIA
Bukharest Admits Artillery Duels
Along the Danube, but Does
Not Specify Sector, . (
D1UVI0 OX MOXASTTR CONTINUES
French l<'ront in Somrao Region
Remains in Stnto of Com- r
parntivo Quiet. >
Allies Move Forward
Two-Thirds of Mile
I'\ It IS. October 7 (via IoiKoii),?
An attack by the French In con
junction ttUIi the British north of
the Sonuiir curried fonrnrfl the ea
tentr line nlioiit tTvo-thtrdfl of a
mile, miyN the official statement Is
sued to-night. The attack revolted
In the capture of all objectives*
LONDON', October 7.?'Roumanlah
troops have resumed the offensive in
the Caneni and Jlul Valleys in Transyl
vania, says the official statement to
day. In Dobrudja the Roumanians
have captured trenches from tho Teu
tonic and Bulgarian forces.
Ait unconfirmed wireless message
from Koine received in London says
that another Roumanian expedition is
reported to have crossed the Danube
into Bulgaria. apparently behind th<i
lines hold by tf*io!/l Marshal von Mack*
onsen, Rukharest officially says there
have been artillery duels along tho
Danube, but dot;; not specify In what
sector.
There has been no change on tho
eastern and western fronts. s i,
Retrogrnd reports fighting in btjth
Volhynla ami (iaiicla, and clnlms the
repulse of Austro-Oertnan attacks in
thosf- fields.
Ti?e artillery fire on tho Sommo front
continues, hut virtually no infantrj*,
actions are reported by the belligerent;
capitals Berlin states that tho artiip
lory battle has spread to north of -Jb^
A no re River.
!ii Transylvania, the Austro-German'
troops continue to advance. The Rou
manians who retreated across the Alt
River arj being pursued through tlio
(Jerster Forest. Berlin reports. Bukl\a
rest mentions little activity In this
section of Transylvania, but snya tho
Rouma 11 inns have returned to the of
fensive near F'etroseny. *\
("?rami Duke Nicholas continues ^ls
offensive along the Rlack Sea coast
in Armenia, and toports the capture of
the I'etra Kala fortifications from the
Turks. Constantinople claims the re
pulse of Russian attacks along- the
coast, and a Turkish advance in th*
Ognott sector to the south. . ^
I.VVADKIts I'OMI'KI.I.KI)
TO OIVB GROUCH
Kntente allied forces are pressing
hard upon the Teutonic and Bulgarian
troops defending occupied territory'. I??
the Balkans. Both in Macedonia and
in Dobrudja. the Invaders have been
compelled to ?ive ground before at
tac ks.
??n a front of ten miles northeast and
east of the Struma River, British troops
hive occupied five villages and have
repulsed a Bulgarian attack against
Nevolyen.
Further west, on the Macedonian
trout in the region of the Cerna River,
the .Serbian troops ha.ve debouched
from the ICalmakcalan plateau, and
advance detachments have reached the
B< la Voda Rivor, about sixteen miles
east of Monastir.
troop.-- have occupied the town
1 .orinan on the eastern shore of
Lake i'resba. near tiie western end of
the entente linv. In the region of Lake
I'.utkova. near the Relashitza plateau.
Italian troops have advanced.
Russian ami Roumanian forces have
t.ikon ground trom the troops of Field
Marshal von Mackcnsen in the Do
btudja. I lie Russians have occupied
1 u'' and have repelled attacks.
Advancing on the right flank, the
Roumanians have .veupiod some
trenches. and report the checking of
attacks in t|,e eonter
i:\ti-:\tk r.uirui;\ \<;\i\si
*tf?\As'iiit is ni:vi-:i.(iiM\t.
Tho entente campaign against .Mon
astic. in Southern Serbia, is developing
1 ?I'td 1> from both the south and the
east.
While allied forces have pressed t..
within not much more than six mile
'ii.in .Monastic on the south, the Sor
biaiiv have advanced northwest from
K a iina kca la n. on the west slopes of
the Nidje i iilae lleie they are re
ported i.> l-aris I(, h.lv,. ched the
v.illev ot the Vela Boda, which empties
into the ?'oi n:i a! a point almost dlrcct
'?* 'M'd a I Monastlr ami about sixtuci
miles from that ?dty.
I-art her west alom; the shores, of
l ..ike I'resba. utento operation
auaiiist the Bulgarians also is maklui.
prog cm,, according i.. l'aris. French
troops participating In the more-,
in*"n' ''ere and have advanced north
war.: t lirve miles aloiiK the shores of
the lake, from i'opliple to the town
of Cermaii. which Is less tiian two
miles from t;>,? Serbian border and fif
teen miles soul Invest of Monastlr.
Sofia - official report to-day ati
"ounces the defeat of a Serbian at
tempi t.. cross the Cerna southeast of
Monastic and the repulse of an attack
io... BuIimvo. ill the Moglenlca Vullcy.
larllirr alonu the line to iiic cast.
'lie r en. h front m ;he Sommo re
gion of Northern France remains in??
