bS4 t.4,c~dp ci
dh tmh ~gwib asLF I~l
a ad ps -a dodiaO eC n .
NO. 3642. W&WASHINGTON. D. C.. SUDAY. OCTOBER 1916.OE .
DOERS BEATEN
DESPITERALLY
Battle Hard in Ninth, But Red
Sox Wm, 6 to 5.
By DAMON RUNYUP.
(fltefawgemmel News seryee.)
raves Field, Boston. Mass., Oct. 7.
Peam the shadow of a five-run lead, the
reoakyn Dodgers swung a desperate
ninth-ianng charge against the Boston
Red Box In the first battle of the world
serlas here this afternoon, only to fnally
step just outside the breastworks of
victory.
"'T'mie," the worn old war song of the
Rautc baseball rooters, Is once more
floating raggedly around the streets and
hotel lobbies of the town tonight, for
the anal seore was 6 to 5 In favor of
the Rod fox.
The Dodgers went into the ninth inning
with the score 6 to 1 against them. They
were apparently beaten, broken, and in
disorderly retreat.
People were walking out of the stands,
making derisive comments on the show
Ing of the Brooklyn club. It was a joke
outft, they said, and the Red Sox would
take the championship of the baseball
weld in four games.
Shore Put to Rout.
Then It was that the Dodgers turned
and began fighting. Stolidly, phlegmati
cally, they fought. moving up run by
run on the dashing champions of the
American League, until they routed
Shore, the great right-hander of the
Sex, and need but the slightest break
in baseball fone to put them in front.
There were 35,00 people in the stands
when the game began, less than was
expected. Probably a third of that num
ber left, disgusted, after the seventh
Inning, when they saw the Dodger de
fense crumble.
Errors, errors, errors; errors by Cut
shaw, by Olson, and by Stengel: errors
of the hand and occasionally of the head
those were the reasons why every one
thought the cause of Brooklyn was
wholly hopeless.
Rube Marquard. the formr Giant, had
ritched well against the Sox. He had
pitched carefully, and with good judg
ment, but his support was too rickety.
The old fault of the Dodgers that was
characteristic of them through the Na
tional League drive was marked in
them today. The men seemed to be fear
ful they were going to lose, instead of
confIdent that they would - win, which
was the attitude of the Red Sox.
Dodgers Leek "Puneb."
In the vernacular of the world of sport,
the Dodgers lacked the punch.
Shore was none too effective against
them at any time. He went completely
to pieces In the ninth, when the Dodgers
were making their stolid rush. Even
then Robinson's men had no wallop. One
hit by Chief Meyers. the Indian, once
ne of the greates sluggers of his
era, or hy Fred Merkle, aacting as
a pinch hitter, or, anally. by Jack
Dauber. captain of the Dodgers, would
have put the Brooklyn club on the road
to victory.
Merkle got a base on balls from Shore
at a time when the bases were filled,
forchsn in a run for the Dodgers, and
that finished the lank Carolina lad. He
was succeeded by Carl Mays and much
of the credit for stopping the Dodgers
must go to Mays.
He is a pitcher with the most singular
delivery in the world.
It is called underhanded, but it is more
than underhanded. Before he lets the
ball go. Mays stoops so far over that
his head is within a foot of the ground.
Weird Pitehing ComSuses.
He pitches from that crouching posi
tion. the ball shooting up to the batter
at weird angles. Erstaine Mayer, of the
Phillies. pitches underhanded and the
Dodgers were not wholly unfamiliar with.
that style. but Mays' exaggerated under
handedness disconcerted Hap Myers and
I1subert, the men who hit against him,
to some extent.
Hap Myers pulled one of the very
smartest plays of the game in that ninth
inning when he beat an Infield roller by
a headlong slide into first. Had not
Myers made that strange slide, the rally
of the Dodgers would have stopped be
fore it did.
It was not a good game-not for a
world's championship game, anyway.
There were some slashing plays on both
sides, but the baseball experts speak ot
it tonight as a sloppy exhibition.
Harry Hooper, the Californian, stood
out, as Is ever his custom in the cham
pionship contests, and Duffy Lewis, and
Janvrin. and Clarence Walker, the man
who took Tris Speaker's place, did notable
work.
Tessie Breaks the Air.
It was nearly 2 o'clock when the band
entered the right field stand. They broke
into the strains of "Tessie." A loud.
long drawn "Ha Ha" arose from the
crowd. It was the first time this after
noon that the old, old, battle tune of the
Boston baseball rooters had been ralsed.
Back In 1UMt, when It looked as if the
Boston Red Sox were surely defeated by
the Pittsburgh club, a devoted bunch of
fans followed the home town team, start
to finsh, with a band that played noth
ing but "Tessie." then a popular song
of the day. It was forlorn hope the Sox
put through that season, and always
sInce then the Boston rooters have trail
ed -them with the old tune. Boston has
never yet lost a world series.
Shortly before 2 o'clock there was a
conference of umpires at the plate, Rube
Marquard was warming up in front of
the Dodger bench. Carrigan had two
pitchers worklug One was Ernest Shore.
the long right-hander, and the other was
CONTtNUD ON PAGE TEN.
FREE TICKETS
FOR YO,U
At Moore's Garden and Strand
theaters this week- They are
offered you in the classihed col
umns of today's Herald on page
13, Of course this is an unusual
opportunity, hut every day there
are scores of opportunities offer
ed in thle me colimns. No
matter what you want, be it a
job, adeia bo'ike-t-r, a
mndacoo an apartmsent. a
house, money to boror, or any
oe di scores of needs you can
ill it by consulting The Herl's
classied columns or inserting a
want =a in tse.
later foreeeg eN0t AHU. 80
ROme, Oct. t.-The ha. .ddress
a letter to Cardinal and othe
G0saa bishops on th9 onea-M of t
sistho -annual meeting at FulI. TI
Pobe complains that his peace ~or
have aroused unwarranted suspicion. I
if he had been prompted by the hope 4
cyriving personal benent.
The Pope adds that the present exetI
meet prevents many from realizing thi
the pontiff, as vicar of Christ and fathi
of all, must exhort peace In favor, not i
part, but of the whole humanity.
,PEACE MEN Hll
Charged with Using Money c
U. S. to Boom Plans.
"Five hundred sixteen thousand, se
hundred dollars of the people's mone
was expended in the anti-preparenem
campaign of Clyde H. Tavenner an
Henry Ford against the Navy League,
says a statement issued by that organ
satlon yesterday.
"In postage alone, lost to the goverr
ment because of the abuse of the fran
ing privilege." it continues, "there shoul
be charged up against these individual
$40,000 which It would have cost a pr
vate person to have sent through th
mail the material which they franked.
"Other Items of government loss. du
to this Congressman's placing his frani
Ing nrivilege and other perquisites s
the disposition of the advertising autt
mobile manufacturer, brings the sur
total up to more than half a millior
This charge is based upon fgures re
ceived from the office of Representatty
Tavenner, from the Postoffice Depari
ment, and from the Government Printin
Office.
"The charge results from a combin,
tion which was last year entered In'
by the Congressman and the anti-pr4
paredness advocate under which the lal
ter placed full-page advertisements I
hundreds of newspapers throughout i
United States. These advertisemeni
made charges against the Navy Leagu
of the United States and quoted fc
confirmation from speeches delivered a
the floor of the House of Representative
(CONrINUED ON PAGE TWO.)
TRUST COMPANY HEAD
COINFRMS PEACE STORI
C. H. Sabin Reiterates that Gerar
Carries Proposal.
toy the laternatieae Wows Service
New York, Oct. 7.-Charles H. Sabir
president of the Guaranty Trust Co
pany. admitted today that it was he wh
gave out the Information yesterdAg-Ls
Arisaemor Gerard Wm briuifxAt
proposals from Germany.
From his country home at Southamptor
Long Island, Mr. Sabin telephoned to hi
secretary to "confirm" and "reiterate" hl
statement.
The Guaranty Trust Company is th
second largest financial institution I
New York.
According to reports in Wall Street I
was decided at a conference of Mr. Sabi
and his associates to make public th
misgion of Ambassador Gerard so tha
a- y subsequent announcement. made sud
denly, would not upset financial condi
tions.
LABOR MEN TO RALLY
IN WILSON'S DEFENSI
Mass Meeting Scheduled for Frida:
Evening.
Organized labor's defense of Presideri
Wilson and his stand on the Adamso
eight-hour law will start with a monste
rally at the National Rifles Armory o
G street northwest, next FrIday nigh1
October 13.
President Samuel Gompers, of th
American Federation of Labor, will mak
the principal address at the meetin
which will be under the auspices of th
Wilson Eight Hour League, an o
ganisation formed to advance the caus
of the Democratic candidate and con
posed entirely of union workers.
Three of the four Brotherhood leader
whose vigorous fight for the trainme
brought about the eight-hour law wi
be among the speakers. They are Mesor
Stone, Garrison and Lee and thel
speeches will describe the condition
which brought about the strike threal
the negotiations with President Wilso
and members of Congress and the fins
victory of the Brotherhoods on the clom
Ing day of the session.
Secretary Frank Morrison. of the A. F
of L., will also speak and Arthur Holde1
legislative agent of the organization, wi
preside.
It Is announced that the meeting wil
be the first of a series that will be he
in every State In the union before th
election and that the purpose of the Eigl
Hour League is to have every membe
of organised labor vote as a unit fe
President Wilson.
"TRACEE" BUllETB IN USE.
Britiah Pretest Against Germam Oh
Seetion te 'Them.
London, Oct. 7L-The British govers
ment, through the Amnericsn Embasa)
has made repiresentations to Germany ol
behalf of two captured British aviator
who are to be tried by court-martial be
cause "traoer bullets" were found In thei
possession, says the ZDally Express.
The govmat explained that trace
bullets are usSby all belligerents a
machine gun aandunition for the purpot
of correeting the gunner's aim aned d
not eontravmn The Hague conventio.
Umherge Against Maths to Out 01
New England Suply.
Trenton. N. J., Oct. 7.--A soardity I
Christanag trees is l&sked for this year Il
NW' Jersey as the r~ut of the a
ususene+ of the taeDepatmn e
Agriculture aaheht a quagauti
against Christmas trees and green ea
in the 30ew miindm area that Was iee
quarantined ainSt the gypsy setk.
NO .o 0. P. UNITY,
WILSN CHARIEI
* Presidet Bitterly Ami& Re
publicans and Roosevelt.
ir
'f (BY the Iuternatieal News Servies
Shadow Lawn, N. J., Oct. 7.-Preside
Wilson, speaking to 2.500 "Independenti
,today declared the Republican party wi
composed of so many opposing factiol
that even if it won the election not
tug would be achieved for national proe
res. He referred indirectly to Theodol
Roosevelt as the partys only artioula
f voice, "professing purposes at which t
rest shiver."
The President predicted the "divora
of the various elements of the Republics
party even if Hughes won. The speem
was a plea for progressive support. T1
a President said in part:
"We are at a critical juncture in t
a af'airs of the world, and the affairs
the world touch America very closel
She should not stand apart. And in tI
midst of this situation, we are about
determine whether we shall change tI
lines of our national policy.
"Fortunately, the lifes of this car
paign have recently been becoming vei
clear Indeed. The choice is a very defini
one which does not require any subt
analysis for its determination. On ti
e one hand there is a party which
united, made up of congenial element
and which has determined its directik
by its performances and not by Its pror
t ises. You know what the Democrat
party has accomplished. You know thi
n it neither can turn back nor desires
turn back.
"On the other hand, what have w4
e It baffles description. Men of every so
- and variety of purpose, I will not as
I united, but associated. for an unavow4
object; more interesting than that, at
more ominous than that. shot throus
o with every form of bitterness, every ug'
- form of hate, every debased purpose i
- revenge, and every covert desire to r
cover secret power."
rDIAMONDS STOLEN FROI
n
WIFE OF ARMY OFFICE]
'Valuable Brooch and Ring Taken fro
Maj. Johnston's Apartments.
Detective Sergts. Bower and Kelly iRa
night arrested Thomas Brooks, colore
28 years old, charged with breaking an
entering the home of Maj. William
'
Johnston in the Bungalow Apartmen
and stealing diamonds valued at 380.
The gems were stolen some time with
the last fortnight, but the theft was n
) discovered until yesterday. when Mr
Johnston went to her jewel case at
- found them missing. The police wei
a immediately notified,
SThe ama g edset -with, a sol
a faire stone weighing almost two karat
and was said to be an ea~ptionally flr
. cut stone. The breech consisted of a go]
a pin and pendant set with five diamond
5 The center stone was a one and on4
' fourth karat stone. surrounded by fot
a smaller diamonds of a half karat each.
I The jewels were the property of Mr
Johnston, wife of Maj. Johnston, foi
t merly with the Eighth Cavalry at I
a Paso. but lately attached to the oftc
a of the adjutant general in the War D4
t partment here. Mrs. Johnston wore tk
- stones about two weeks ago and put thel
- in her jewel case in the trunk. Whe
she went to l9ok for then* yesterday at
found the case empty.
AUTO HONKS NEAR HIM;
HE FALLS UNCONSCIOU
Here's a new one on the "Iivver."
A young man gving his name as Stat
ley S. Colstner, of Olean. N. Y., wI!
crossing at Sixteenth and P stre'ets. ws
startled by the hoarse notes of an autt
mobile horn. There rushed past him
car of popular make going north at a
excessive rate of speed.
r Colatner reeled, staggered to the curl
and fell. A passerby, who refused I
hive his name, rushed to the scene, whet
he found the young man unconscious. i
was soon revived by first aid method
and his first sentence was, "Where al
1?" When assured that he was at
among the living he said the noise ha
startled him and that the wind made b
the fast moving car had taken away h:
emeath.
s SUBMARINE ATTACKS
SHIP IN MID-OCEAJ
r (By the lternatemal News Service,
Galveston, Texas, Oct. 7.-The Leylan
line steamer Mercian. arrived her toda
reported being shelled by a German sul
marine in mid-Atlantic.
Captain C. J. Walker exhibited tt
visor of his cap, which he said had bee
split by splinters from the shell as t
stood on his bridge. None of the Mei
clan's crew was injured, nor was the ve,
sel materially damaged.
The submarine Walker said, submerge
on the appearance of a British warshil
I MISS HELEN MORTON
ROBBED OF JEWELR1
(By the Inter"atiemal News Serviea
Chicago, 'Oct. 7.-Miss Helen Mortoi
. divorced two days ago from Roger Ba%
ly, Virginia gentleman-farmer and hors,
man, is 35,009 poorer today because. at
. took a police dog she owns along for prc
-, tection when she went on a walk whic
a ended at a movie show last night.
s Durirng her abeenee thievee entered t11
.home of Mrs. Uturveet Psboy wher
r she is a guest, end got MIss Morton
jewels, in spite of the fact there were fi'
r servants in the house,
s
Alleged Blayes Eleeteste Dee it
Wawdea's Emeats.
Oesining, N. Y.. Oct. 7.-Dm te pi
of Warden Mott Oebomne en 'onse
bankears. Thomas Blunbrlc oNJew yTo.i
was rgatedin Shng fling prison t,
day f uer.1 Req~e~ tor a reprise
-- w as de to GoperW~ alma
up to the hour of eemtiesj" but all wet
: ==Mk shet George -Dspin a Nes
Y ork iotaman. at a, polfional pienie e
t ptember 3. 1311
atiese angO tikt g0
.1.18,vald eterm u ij 1
Ieedon Oct. 7.-Tb eature of dsnx oS
VIllagS ften the Bulgarians an the Sir.
ma frent In -acnia, wag announc g
In an catll dispatc to the war om
from Bolsaoi toddy.
London, Oct. 7.-A dispatch to the
Chroclte from Milan reports that Count
von Dohna-Schiedien,'commander of the
German dommerce raider Noeowe., had
been killed by a shell on the western
front.
London, Oct. 7.-German newspapers are
hinting that the imperial government does
net intend tl resume submarine warfare.
says a Centftl News dispatch from Zu
rich today.
Norfolk. Va.. Oct. 7.-The Cuban steam
I or Palousa, from New York to Cuba, went
ashore today off the North Carolina coast.
n Rome. Oct. 7.-An alliance of France.
h Italy. Spain and Roumania is advocated
e in the Messaggero today by Signor Arton.
a member of parliment. The proposal is
a based on common racial interesta.
of
Sofia (via London). Oct. 7.-An allied
Sfleet has bombarded the Bulgarian port
e of Dedeagatch, on the Aegean Sea, the
a war office announced today, but the ships
were driven off by seaplanes after doing
slight damage.
e Vienna (via Berlini, Oct. 7.-The bom
e bardment of Italian military works at
e Grabo. Monfalcone. San- Cansieno and
Staransano by Austrian airmen was of
ficially announced today by the admiral
n ty. The raid took place Thursday night.
l Albany, Oct. 7.-An oil painting of
t David B. Hill has been presented to the
0 State by Mr. Hill's executors. It will re
place in the executive chamber a small
bronse plaque of the one-time governor.
.t The portrait was painted by Norton H.
y Ely, of New York.
d
4 Galveston. Texas. Oct. 7.-The United
h States engineering Jaunch Nueces was
y rammed by a fifteen-foot swordfish while
in the internastal canal between Caney
Creek an4 Ae Brazos River. A big hole
was made in the Nueces. The fish was
shot and hauled aboard.
Cedarhurst. L. I., Oct. 7.-Mr. James
R. Keene. widow of the noted finan
cier and turfman. is critically ill with
Bright's disease at her home here. She
has only a aliglit chance of recovery. A
feeble heart has added to the seriousness
of her condition.
- Baltimore, Oct. 7.-Col. David 0. Mc
Intosh, one of the foremost lawyers of
Maryland and a noted Confederate sol
dier, is dead from acute indigestion at
t his home in Towson. He was N0 years
old and was long a lender in Democratic
politics in Baltimore County.
Springfield. Ill., Oct. 7.-United States
Senator Lawrence Y. Sherman has been
challenged to meet in public debate
n Samuel Gompers, president of the Amer
can Federation of Labor, whom Senator
Oherman recently attacked in the Senate.
The challenge was sent on behalf of the
Illinois Federation ef Labor sand the
Chiche Fedg tan- of Labor.
Philadelphia, Oct. 7.-Robert C. Lip
pincott. lumber merchant and a member
of the Union League, is dead at his
home In Germantown. He was formerly
president of the National Wholesale
Lumber Dealers' Association.
Pittsfield. Mass., Oct. 7.-Mrs. Louise
Frances Crane, widow of Z. Marshall
Crane, of Dalton, is dead at her resi
e dence in Dalton. She was N years of age.
- She left a stepson, Zenas Crane; her
Sson, W. Murray Crane. one-time Sena
tor, and three daughters. Mrs. George. T.
Plunkett, of Hinsdale: Mrs. Harry Ogden
Bates, of Morristown. N. J.. and Miss
Clara L. Crane, of Dalton.
Freeport. L. I., Oct. 7.-Rowland H.
Mayland. one of the best know musical
instrument manufacturers in the United
States, is dead at his home here at the
age of 68, following a general breakdown.
- San Juan. Porto Rico, Oct. 7.-Shipping
e here is tied up by a strike of 1,000 harbor
a and dock laborers, who were joined today
- by the cartmen. All demand higher
a wages. Violence followed efforts to bring
n workmen here from other places.
, St. Louls. Oct. 7.-An investigation of
e the fire that destroyed a part of the main
e building of the Christian Brothers' Col
e lege Thursday and resulted in the loss of
a ten lives has been begun by the coroner.
r The investigation will center chiefly on
11 the death of six firemen, who were caught
I by a falling wall two hours after the fire
y seemed under control.
5 --
New York. Oct. 7.-William Barnes de
clares Mr. Hughes will carry New York
State by about 200.000. and' that every
Northern State and Oklahoma will go for
ir. Hughes. He also says the Republi
can State ticket will win easily.
New York, Oct. 7.-Justus Miles For
:man, writer. who died In the Lusitania
disaster. May 7. 1915. left a total estate
of 814.715. having a net value of U13551.
He left no will and the estate went to
the relatives.
New York, Oct. 7.-About 500 strike
breakers are to be imported by the asso
cation of window cleaning concerns to
break the ptrike among employes. The
300 strikebreakers who have been on duty
are said, by Daniel Fraad, an employer,
to have been terrified by attacks upon
them.
New York. Oct. 7.-The Army and Navy
Department Committee of the Interna
tional Committee of Young Men's Chris
tian Associations has Just approved a
budget of expenditures amounting to
g,000, to cover its work among the
-troops on the Mexican border from Sep.
tember 1 to December 3B.
I Amsterdam, Oct. 7.-A Constantinople
telegram says that a general congress of
C the committee of union and progress. un
e der the presidency of the Grand Vizier,
C has adopted a resolution to prosecute
5 the war with Turkey's allies to a vic
torious end.
Berilin, Oct. 7.-Bubscriptions to the
fifth war loan cloeed at 1 o'clock yester
, day. The Lokal-Anseiger says ft is ex
-pected the total subscribed will prove to
be littie if any lower than the fourth
s loan, by which lO712,00.,00 marks (about
t $3,2,MZ4M0% was raised. The last day
,of receiving subscriptions was marked
,by a rush of small subscribers.
t Paris, Oct. 7.-According to tbe conf
e manding officer and men of a French tor
pedoboat, the British steamshp Stdhy
, sunk on September 2, while on her way
a from Newport News for Glasgow. was
destroyed by a solemarine. Amnedcan,
citisens are said. to have, been- on board
the Strofktay,
'. En et emeval e
B r, a-d Mem=s Veisai
'ALE STRIKE
ON SOME LIE
French and British MakeGains
on Ten-Mile Front.
(By .b. rtir..n...l Nw. ..rwie..)
London, Oct. 7.-The allies today stru
another mighty blow en the Soinme frt,
attacking on a tern-mle line from the
Albert-Bapaume read to Bouchavene.,
As a result, the village of LA Rm to
nigstIs in British hands.
The Brtish smashed forward from W
to 1M yards on the mile and a balf
front between Guedecourt and Les
Boeufs, while the French drove ahead
more than three-quarters of a mile north
east of Morval. Th advance has
brought them to the saly-aallisel high
tands. They have seized control of the
Bapaume-Peronne. road for a distance of
200 yards around Sailly and have gained
a foothold on the slopee of the Hill 3.
In addition the western and southwestern
borders of the St. Pierre-Vaast woods
are in their hands.
The attack was the fifth of the series
of the great blown which have marked the
progress of the Anglo-French offensive
in Picardy. It had been prepared for
five days. the allied artillery hammering
the German trenches throughout that
time despite unfavorable weather condi
tions.
Heavy losses were inflicted on the Ger
mans' reserve during the engagement,
especially in the Saillisel sector, where
troops being hurried to the support of the
imperilled front were taken uider the
fire of the French artillery. Paris reports
capture of 400 prisoners. The British re
ports, at a late hour tonight, were still
irncomplete.
The wedge being driven between Pe
ronne and Bapaume is. as a result of this
action. approximately half a mile ad
vanced.
VILLA PLANS MEETINGi
WITH NEWSPAPER MEN
Bandit Chief Will Make Bid for U. S.
Favor.
(y the Internatiemal News service.)
El Paso, Tex., Oct. ,7.-Founding his
hopes upon recent victories, or partial
victories, over the followers of Gen. Car
ransa In the west. Pancho Villa. It is
reported here, is to make a new bid for
the favor of the tnited States govern
ment.
Villa. the story goes here, is to give
an Interview to a group of American
newspaper correspondents and also is to
permit the taking of moving picture films
of his forces in Chihuahua. Arrage
aenats for the interview are said lp have
been made by Bant D.-absi gAnleriy a
machine gun opelator with Villa, and
who was his close personal friend.
In response to representations made
by Villa, several reporters for various
publications. and carigramen for movie
companies are here. They are keeping
strict sipce regarding their expecta
lions, but the story of a meeting with
Villa is believed to be correct.
Villa was last reported at Bustilles,
thirty miles of Chihuahua City.
GIRL CAUSES ARREST
OF TWO BANK ROBBERS
(1y the lternational News Service.)
Covington, Ind.. Oct. 7.-Two bandits.
one of them wounded, are in jail today
because of the quick wit of Miss Laura
Ward. a bookkeeper. She caught them in
the vault of the Citizens' State Bank.
screamed to attract attention. and a
posse captured the robbers after a re
volver battle.
Miss Ward, entering the bank by a
back door, found Samuel P. Cray, the
cashier, unconscious on the floor as the
result of a beating with a club and
the bandits gathering up money. As the
robbers fled Miss Ward followed, still
screaming. A posse surrounded the rob
bers in a patch of woods.
KANSAS OFFICERS FLEE
BEFORE ENRAGED MOB
(By the Internatiemal News Service.)
Augusta. Kan., Oct. 7.-Enraged by the
arrest of six prominent citizens on
charges of violating traffic ordinances, a
mob early today stormed the Sail here.
ran Marshal Crowe and his three depu
tIea out of town and liberated the pris
oners.
The climax of the arrests came when
William Pool, candidate for the legisla
ture. rode down Main street on a white
horse with a lantern held before him and
was taken in charge.
DOG SPILLS HIS BEER;
SHOOTS OWNER DEAD
Special to The Washington Herald.
Fairview, N. J., Oct. 7.-As Tony
Lamargo ascended the etairs to his flat
In Kamena street last night, a dog owned
by his downstairs neighbor, Alphonsus
Dannocpni, brushed against him. Lamargo
spilled his can of beer. Enraged, he
kicked the dog, and Dannoconi inter
vened.
Lamargo shot Dannoconi through the
stomach, and the latter died instantly.
The amsaiant shot Mrs. Dannoconi
through the arm and fled.
DE RTSRX SAVU HEE.
Lifeless fiands Steer Auto Safely
Dow. Mill.
Omaha, ~eb., Oct. 7.-Mrs. F. 8. Tru
linger is ale today because the hands
of her dead husband guided an automo
bile dawn a steep hill and brought It to
a stop against the rear, end of another
ca going i the same direction late last
night.
Mrs. Trulingar, discovering her husband
wa dead, vainly tried to remove his
hands tri the wheel and his feet from
the brakes, No one wad injured in the
col~sion. Trulinger died of appoplexy.
"De nuft" Is Uepgwreesed fe
A3tiMilitariett Artiel.,
e.rlin (via London), Oit. 7-Die Zn
h4ft, et which Mazi~mian Harde. is
teediteghaa, again bee. suprssd
dhuadm en aea....n.t a- s
i Oft. N. J.. Oa. Ie-he den.
bftk I the -M between he
w. a .tMA . m .. whe. . 0 .
- aeed to ftamft.s a plea for a
ueletesti t the Miasm bm w Vale
oft i oing thn wathesaval at the
Ama.em tr-ps, a oaitoss en whieh
they b"d Need p"t Fle the -men
2t was ]0iee"s am ig blab eaty that
tentative plas have been sat to Wash
aton and Mastlo City for approval be
fore the mmanaimoners reaeh a fnal
a.gree-et.
STEAMER ON FIRE
Passengers Reported Leaving
Antilla, Off Capes.
(By the Internatieal News Serene.)
Newport News. Va.. Oct. 7.-A st ns
a. 0. S. call from the etamsear Antilla.
of the Ward Line, was picked up at the
wireless station at Old Point shortly
before 9 o'clock tonight.
The message stated that the vessel was
on fire t20 miles off the Virginia Capes.
and that those on board were then pre
paring to take to the small boats.
The steamer Someruet, which Is within
twenty-five miles of the burning steamer,
has started to her aid. The revenue cut
ter, Onondaga and Apache also have left
for the scene.
The Antilla is said to have a large pas
senger list.
R. M: Hicks. local agent of the Ward
Line. last night said that the Antilla was
not a Ward Line vessel. but, he thought.
belonged to the Munson Line, hailing
from sorme port on the south coast of
Cuba. probably Antilla, and bound for
New York.
Mr. Hicks stated the Antilla probably
carried many passengers and was laden
with sugar.
TWO AMERICAN SHIPS
SUNK, SAYS DISPATCH
Harvita and Columbia Reported Lost
in War Zone.
London. Oct. 7.-A Reuter dispatch from
Christiania. Norway. states that two
American ships have been sunk. The dis
patch gives their names as the Harvita
and Columbia.
Their loss was reported to the Norwe
gian Minister at Petrograd by the Nor
wegian consul general at Arhangel. Rus
.aa. says the dispatch. No details of their
lose are furnished by the first reports.
Several ships named Oolambia appear
in shipping records. but the eW ee Ue
be h waters of the )1orweelan
16 be the~ steel steamship
Columbia. owned by Wilson brothers. of
San Francisco. This ship registers 1I.92
tons and files the American flag.
No vessel named larvita is listed.
BRITISH NOT ENTHUSED
OVER RUMORS OF PEACE
Insist the War Must Go On "to a
Knockout"
Special Cable to Tb. Wahingto Herald.
London. Oct. 7.-We have received no
German peace overtures yet, but Mr.
Lloyd George has given our views on
peace at this time."
This statement from Lord Robert Cecil,
minister 9f war trade, today reflected the
attitude of British official sentiment to
ward the latest report from the United
States that Ambassador Gerard is bear
ing a peace message from the Kaiser to
President Wilson.
Everywhere in official circles Lloyd
George's emphatic declaration that the
war must go on "to a knockout was
cited as the answer to the newest peace
reports. There is no doubt that Lloyd
George voiced the sentiment of every
Briton, 4t least in expressing the nation':
determination to tinish the war in a
proper manner.
Reports similar to those received from
America have reached here from Scandi
navia regarding the purpose of Ambassa
dor Gerard's visit.
It was strongly emphasised today that
any suggestions of mediation coming
from President Wilson at this time would
not be acceptible. Well-informed person,
added, however, that there would he nu
objection if President Wilson merely act
ed as an agent In transmitting any terms
the Kaiser cares to offer.
BOOM WIIBON ON "TANKS."
Not Kind on War Frost. bat cars
on Pennsylvania Railroad.
Harrisburg. Oct. 7.-Tank cars have
been passing through Harrisburg with the
inscription: "Hughes is for Wall street:
Wilson is for the people.' Local officials.
according to the Pennsylvania Railroad.
men, suspected yardsmen here of having
done the stenciling and five men weie
dropped several days aro.
Cars with the same inscription con
tinue to come into the yards and the five
suspended men were reinstated.
WOMAN KIT.TD UNDER AUTO.
Husband and Damerkter lajured Ia
Wreek Near Pittsburgh.
Pittsburgh. Pa . Oct. 7.-Mtrs. J. E.
Wood, 42, was killed and her husband. J.
E. Wood. 44. and daughter. Gertie Wood.
18, were slIghtly injured today when their
automobile left the Liberty road and
plunged into Sawmill Run. near Fair
Haven. They, were en route from their
home in Donara, Pa., to Pittsburgh. Mrs.
Wood was crushed to death underneath
the machine.
WOMAN KICKB POLICRUA .
Former Actsess' Bler @sd. Him to
aesptal in Amatance.
New York, Oct. 7.-Mrs. Verta McDowell
isn't an actress any more. but ahe hasn't
forgot how to kiek. Yesterday she kick
ed a policeman so expertly that he had
to be carried from the "'L" station at
15th street and Eight avenue in an am
bulance. 'Tie pglicerinaa. Henry Bos
amn', of the West 15th street station, is
still In Harieeg Reepital.
me V= in ea n- r..ee-..
TEITON U-BOAT
STAYS 2 Nas
Undersea Figher Pays My..
terious V it to Newport.
(Dy the Iateemme.et~ Nesse gwret.
Newrport. R. I.. Oct. 7.tThe Om
war submarine U-. moendtag a thea.
ioh gun forwasd and Uytag e Gew
Nac naval flg aft, coma late Newpert
nter harbor at 20p. m.. today. dres
anchor ta the midst of the Uited tem
torpedo boat destrope and submaria
flotilla, received a group of Newpest
naval ocers and eo'ety persons abeord
for a half hour visit. then clipped out
to again at 6:17, leaving the real
object of its visit a deep mysery.
From the frst qoeet asked by LAiet.
Hans Rae, sme Mae of the a
through Miss Margaret =ahntock.e
Washington and Newport seciety. who
served as Interpecter. it was inferred by
many that the U-0 came across as o
voy to the U-ler or merchant sub
marine Bremen. lost the Bremem and put
In here to make inquiries.
From the fact that Aeut. Rome sent
ashore a batch of oficial mail for Count
von Bernstorff. the German Ambassador.
and alo sot s pereonal letter and a
code message to the Ambassador. It was
interred that the submarine had brought
com message from Berlin. possibly re
lating to peace proposala.
The report of a peace Initiative by
Germany is due to the statement made
by Presidert 4harles U. Sabin, of the
Guaranty Trust Compan,. of New York.
a powerful finanal Institution, that
Amhasador Gerard. now on his way
home from Berlin is bringing peace pro
posals from Germany.
speeultiete Rife.
Speculation here after the departure of
the I-53 came back repeatedly to the
theory that the submarine--the first of
Its kind to put In an American port
since the war began-brought some
message for Washington that the Kaiser
did not wish to put to the risk of steamer
travel and possible interception by the
British authorities
Dispathes from New London said that
an observer at Stonington had reported
a submarine off that port. heading for
New London. But the Watch Hill ob
server said that up to 74L p. m he had
seen no submarine. The destination of
the sea-diver, so far as Newport went.
was a much of a mystery as the purpo-t
of the vessel in coming In here
The first known of the German visitor
being on the way was when the naval
radio office received from a sourer -o10
stated, a wireless message to the eftt
that a German submarine was coming
up Narragansett Bay The news startled%
the naval authorities.
Read Admiral Austin M Knight, com
mander of the Narrgagn-ett Bay naval
district, Uotied Harber mambes 14om
ghe. and Deputy Collector of the Poet
W. H Walcutt. The hather taavser
att" dom thoaUp ha a launch
Meanwhile. The visitor was comin; into
the outer harbor. It traveled on the
surface. looking as spick and span as
though just starting out for manoeur "
it came up into the deep %ater just
back of Gost Island. about two m'le.
from the mainland. The torpedo station
is on the Island.
Deterier Had Returned.
The destroyer and submarine flotilla.
ahich had been Maneusering outside the
past few days, had returned and anchored
back of the torpedo station for over Sun
day.
While the officers and men of the
American flotilla and even one at the
torpedo station fairly rubbed their eyes.
the stranger from across the sees d-rw
into the midst of the other vessels, slid
between the destroyer Birmingham and
the submarine D-& and came to anchor.
It was reported that Admiral KnIght
was told that the U-5 sailed from Wi
helmshaven .eventeen days ago. and that
lit was provisioned and fucid for thir
months longer.
L2eut. Rose also informed the admiral
that he merely put In here to pay his re
ercts The German ofivcer said he had
four ofncers and a crew of thirty-five
aboard and that he had not sighted any
hostile craft on his voyage.
Bociety Folk Are Guests.
The visit of the society and naval
guests was hastily arranged and was
tremendously interesting to those who
were privileged to participate.
It came about in this way. When IL.eut.
Rose started to return to his vessel Ad
miral Knight sent one of his aides along
to return the -all According to naval
etiquette the aid il officially represent
t.h admiral on a duty like this.
The ade iok & wi,, A -ti. lAiut Rose's
permission, a nunbe-r of naval officers
and cIviliti guests Among the latter
wcre Miss Margaret Fahnesto k. >,gh
ter of Gihson ahnestock Mai~s Mar
giterite Capertor.. daughte- of Rear Ad
niral William F aR l' rto . A'-hir i'ur
tie James, Walker Breese Sm it d Mrs
Charles lD. Easton. the Tilr !- 't or
These were taken aboard the I - nd
were rhown some of the Interi When
thI guests had been presents- to ieit.
Rose there Nas hrief -on-eisatin in
whih Moi Fahnestook sr-1d a m
terpreter.
The first question the heutenant ;-ed
was:
"Has anyting been heard reenst% fron
the Bremen'
He gas told of the rrpeated reio-ts
but lack of definite news ie -as un
aile. despite his rigid naval trayim.nt. to
conceal the disappointnwot that he felt
New York, Oct. 7 -ndeterred by the
Ipresenca at Newport. R I . of the Ger
man figilting submarine t-:1. the- Ounard
liner Alaunia sailed at 5o'clok tonight
wIth passengers for England.
$10,000 IF GOLFISH ON VIEW.
Aname Exhititem Opens at Hertt
I emiturat Hall.
PhIladelphia, Oct. 7.--Goldfleh worth
16.00 arein view tn the public in Horti-.
cultural Hall at ihe annual exhibition un
ider the jnt ,auspices of the Gioldfts
F1ancirs' Society and the Aquarium So
ciety.
The mast expensive fish of the species
are on free display at the show, which
opened this morning. Some of the 24
fish, such as Japanese goldfish, the tete
scope and the lion-a head, are worth frets
175 to sees es'h
Pekln. Oct. 7.-PreMeu ' Tyen
Hung has cabled Dr. Wellington Ko.,
Chinese Minister to the United Stoans
refusing to accept his resigoanios freem
that .poet and dleclarinag that the presear
vation of friendly relations between the
United States ad China now Ic of h
Keg' aervies te M~ No ha
nem e
