MARKETS
WEATHER
Arizona Friday
showers east portion.
Saturday cloudy, warm
er east portion
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Oct. 2, 26.75.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL 19. NO. 105.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 8, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
an
SCIENCE IS
RECLAIM flfi
posed to taking up occupations, such
as jewelers, lithographers and paint
ers, wh'j are not in much demand in
the small towns of Belgium and
France
Usually a wounded soldier chooses
an occupation ukin to his former w ork.
An iron moulder who has lost his arm
and can no longer lift heavy moulds,
has become a modeller of these moulds
A mason has become a stone designer.
Other mutilated have taken up entirely
new occupations. A restaurant w aiter
has developed into an expert sign
painter. Many wounded soldiers are prepar
es themselves to be government
functionaries after the war, . in the
customs offices, post and telegraph Of
fices, state banks, etc., as it is as
sumed preference will be given to old
hOldiers. One of the schools here pre
pares men for this government work
and for provincial and communal ad-
:.... T-i. : . i r v.
f m m . j JllUUSliaiUI 3. A 1113 DLUUU1 1UI IUC
Instruments tor Measuring training of government employees is
Prti.Tort fM Parnfkntiiritiar Ar anmothintr nf n ninnear in thla lino nnil
Other Trades I'1 nas suPResteJ the establishment of
' regular institutions after the war, lOr
' tha training nf Twnnlo ftr (rnvprnmpnt 1
,,.,.K.... ra. . " " '
. . . , .' employment the same as people are
instruments fori ' , . . 1 .
pi M tt IC
Mimui
SOLDIERS
French Have Delicate Little
PARIS, Sept. A number of re
markable scientific instruments for
measuring exactly the efficiency of a
wounded soldier to perform some new j
line of useful work, have been put in
operation at the Belgian Miliary Insti
tute at Port Billez, France, for the re
education of mutilated soldiers. While
the outer world regards Belgium as
prostrate under the iron hand if Ger
many, it is a striking tribute to the
vitality of the country that it has
been able to establish such institutions
Outside of the country.
Here at a small town between Paris
and Rouen, 1,500 wounded Belgian
soldiers, most of whom fought in the
battle of the Yser, are being made
over for some useful occupation. A
park of 600 acres -iias been donated,
and extensive buildings have been
erected. So that Belgium, prostrate
as it is, has an establishment compar
ing with the best English and French
institutions.
The Belgians have always
trained for all
enterprise.
branches of
JAPANESE URGE
ALLIES TO ADOPT
PROTECTIVE TARIFF
Also Declare Various Allied
Powers Should Freely Open
Their Resources to Each
Other Without Preference.
TOKIO, Oct. Resolutions declaring
that the decisions of the Economic
Conference of Paris are on the whole
acceptable have been adopted by the
Deen ! Associaetd Chambers of Commerce Of
fatuous for fine mechanical appliances, japan. viscount Isnii, the minister
and here they have shown their genius j for forejpn affairs, declares that the
in this line by the use of seven or i resoations will help dispel suspicion
eight new scientific instruments which abroad that japan is not solid in sup
measure precisely the efficiency of a porting the cause of the Entente al
wounded man. Doctor Nyms, of the ' jies
medical staff of the institute, has j As to j,ost helium measures, the
furnished the following sketch of n,eetjng voted that the Entente Allies
these instruments and how they mea- snoUld p,rtect themselves against
sure a wounded workman's energy: comriiercial aggression by tariffs and
"Recent studies On the efficiency of Qtner nieans and promote economic
workmen have shown the enormous ,i,mn, nn(1 that the Allies
should freely open their national re
sources to one another and should n
frain from a preferential policy in mat
ters of import duties as far as the
Entente Allies are concerned. The re
solutions continued:
force wasted through the non-adoption
of working conditions to the work
man's capacity for production, and the
chief Object of efficiency researches is
to suppress all useless effort and
establish precise conditions for secur-!
mg me oesi resmis. w nen me siuay ,.The cnambers of commerce desire
concerns mutuaiea soiaiers, u ac
EiepliBRt Butte Dam,
Iarest Irr&tlon Dsra oa the Americarv.
Continent, To Be Dedicated Oet.14-,1916.
Zt 75 PRESIDENT (
f4 . Vv AcoiGREssy
I,"'? 'T. . '
BOARD ORlW XV
'
6 ' " ft
f jr"'A-fs'4tA. J
HIRAM W.JOHNSON
GOV. CALIFORNIA
Elaborate Ceremonies Will Mark Formal 0per?ir?5 of This
Marv'el of Engineering Which Will Be the (Spectacular
Feature of the Annual Meeting of the Inter
J$:$fi
I Iit if. V - II
GEO. 10. P. HUNT
GOV. ARIZONA
-pg0"pl Trri-fation frrr. At. the Drn Oct. 14. With p" fn Pnv, Toy?. 0.1fi :
J.
G A N T ON IN
CHINA IN
STATE OF
SIEGE
U. S. Warships Lying Off Sha
meen Island, Protecting For
eign Population As Spent
Shells Fall on Deck.
'"he Kki,l'.ant Butte c!ani wh!ch will
be r?i'icatfrd with elaborate ceremony
Saturday. Oct. 14, is the largest struc
ture of its kind ever undertaken un
der the direction of the Vn'ted States
Reclamation Service and the largest
mass of masonry in the world contain
ing 610,000 cubic yards of rubble and
stone. '
It is KT0 feet fn length from wall to
wall of the canyon across which it is
built and nearly 1500 feet long includ
ing, spillways. The dam is 215 feet
wide at the base tappring to 1 Sfeet
at the crest which u used as a road
way or bridge. The roadway ia 304
feet above bed rock.
The "lake" formed by the dam,
which stores only the flood waters of
the Rio Grande, will be. 45 miles long
with an average width of six miles
and an average depth of 6tf feet. It
will have a capacity of S62.000.OO0
gallons or about twice the capacity
of the storage lake behind the Roose
velt dam and four times the capacity
of the famous dam across the Nile at
Assouan, Egypt.
The dam w ill cost $10,000,000 and is
destined to reclaim 200,000 acres of
i land in New Mexico and Texas In
I eluding 30.000 acres in Old Mexico,
j opposite the city of El Paso.
It gets its name from r.n ancient
landmark which stood on the left bank
of the Rio Grande, just above the can
yon across which the dam is thrown.
This hiss or butte, gecause of he
striking resemblance to the head of
an elephant even to the coiled trunk,
protruding tusks and flapping ears
was called the "sleeping elephant" by
the chroniclers of the expeditions
made by early Spanish invaders as
they passed this way during the six
teenth century.
When the storage lake behind the
new dam is filled only the top of the a3 t0 what his intentions are. The hold
HONGKONG, Sept. 4. (Correspon
dence of the Associated Press.) Can
ton is in a state of siege and panic as
a result of the ambitions of rival mili
tary leaders who claim they are oper
ating through patriotic motives. Chol
era has appeared at Macao, and is re
ported at Canton. Consequently Hong
kong has been compelled to deny ad
mission to the thousands of Chinese
who are fleeing from the besieged city
of Canton.
General Lung Chi-kuang, who was
military governor of Canton before LI
Yuan-hung became president, was re
named by U Yuan-hung to hold the
same office. However, the opposition
of the extreme republicans to General
Lung Chi-kuang was so strong that
President Li Yuan-hung was compell
ed to name General La Yang-ting to
take the post of military governor in
Kwangtung. General Lu is in Kwang
si. and has not yet gone to Kwangtung
province. He is reported to be on Jiis
way there, but there are many rumors
elephant's head will be left over wat
er. The butte, in ages gone, was an
active volcano.. Geologists say it has
not been active in hundreds of years.
The International Irrigation con
gress will hold the Initial session of
its 23rd annual convention at Elephant
Butte dam at the time of the dedica
tory exerc'ses on Oct. 14 and meetings
will' be held in the city of El Paso on
Oct. 16. 17 and IS.
The last is undoubtedly framed to llirnipill ICAPI1C
meet tariff conditions between Eng- AIYiLliluAll LLAuUL
i land and tne colonies or Canada ana j
Australia.
quires a new value A certain loss of
effort may be tolerated when a work
man is normal. But it is not so with
the mutilated, whose function powers
are diminished, and to whom it is in
dispensable that every particle of work
of which they are capable should be
made' integrally available."
: After explaining the method of
charts and tracings . employed, Dr.
Nyms describes the instruments which
measure the energy of the wounded, in
part.-as follows:
'' "First the arthrodynamometer: It
permits the measurement in degrees
of the angles formed by the flexion
and extension of the forearm. It is
particularly useful in studying partial
ankylosis. A dynamometer attached
to this instrument measures in kilo
grams the force that a wounded man
can exert.
"Second the lime, with a cylinder
giving a chronoligical register. This
registers the impulsive force of the
right band, of the left hand; the pres
sure of the right hand, of the left
hand. These are compared with the
standards showing in kilograms what
the maximum force would be, thus
showing what is lacking and what
needs to be corrected.
Third a varlop, with registering
cylinder and electric signal, which
permits us to study the work in car
pentering similar to the measurement
of force by the lime.
"Fourth the cheirographe, which
restores the mobility of the fingers
and registers their power t)f work.
"Fifth a spirometer, with eudio
meter, a cardiograph and a pneumo
graph, complete the installation, and ,
permit the study of all the physiolo- j
gical phenomena bearing on workman- j
ship, and indicating when work is too j
heavy and should be limited by addi-!
tional per.'jds of rest" i
The use of these novel instruments
is, of course, only one phase of the
extensive work being done here, which
includes the training of architects,
sculptors, painters in art and trade,
carpenters, shoemakers, saddlers, ma
chinists, typewriters, printers, engrav
ers, linotypers, photographers, and a
vast number of other Occupations.
Men who have lost a leg were
thought at first to be adapted to some
work not requiring the man to stand.
But this has been found to be a mis
take, and one-legged men are now con
sidered well adapted to standing at a
printing-case, or working at a carpen
ter's bench. However, most of the
one-legged and one-armed men show a
preference to becoming tailors and
shoemakers. They are also much op-
that i The congress requested the govern-
"(a) The Entente Allies should j ment to take steps for the incorpora
amend their treatment of the goods j tion of the resolutions so far as Japan
exported from Japan. The treaties is concerned. : Japan has not yet ad
between Japan and England or France .hered to the policy of the Entente Al
are partial in that there are fewer j lies that there shall be no "tradin?
convent?jnaI tariffs on the other side with the enemy". In view of this, the
resolutions of the business-men ex-
than on this side, and such partiality
should be corrected. Between Japan
and Russia there are ' no conventional
tariff, arrangements, and these ar
rangements should now be made.
"(b) Regarding the preferential tar
iffs between one of the Entente Allies
and its dominions it is desirable that
no power should establish preferential
tariffs with its dominions lest Japanese
expert trade be adversely affected."
pressing approval of the war period
proposals of the Paris conference have
created a great deal of interest. It Is
expected that the attitude of the gov
ernment will be announced shortly.
$16,590,000 gold produced in Trans
vaal during August has been exceeded
in only three previous months Vf pres
ent war and in only four before war.
nave participated in the contest to
159 for the junior league. The least
number employed was in the 1915
series, when the Athletics used twelve
and the Giants eleven. In 1912 and
1915 a total of thirty-four took part,
each contender in this years putting
seventeen on the field. The 1905 series
also holds the record for the least
number of runs scored, the total for
the five games being but eighteen.
The greatest number of runs mad?
came in the play between the Pitts
burgh Nationals and the Detroit Ameri-
ta n Q that X-f tan ma fnllttln tr n tnlal
NEW YORK. Oct 7. The World's ,UI B1-W l runs in seven games.
j Series of 1916. the twelfth under the !
! auspices of the National Baseball Com- London cable says 6 per cent three-
mission, finds the American League excuenuer uonus ai par win oe
CAPTURES MOST OF
' WORLD SERIES
Pennant Series of Other Years
Favor Younger Organiza
tion, but Nationals Win
More Games by Two. j
How Catarrh it Contracted.
Mothers are i&metimes so thought
less as to neglect the colds which their
children contract. The inflaination of
the mucus membrane at first acute,
becomes chronic and the ;hild has
chronic catarrh, a disease that is sel
dom cured that may prove a life's bur
den. Many persons who have this
loathsome disease will remember hav
ing had frequent colds at the time it
was contracted. A little forethought,
a bottle of Chamberlain's Cough Reme
dy judiciously used, and all this trou
ble might have been avoided. Obtain
able everywhere. (Advertisement)
DESCENDANT OF NOTED BEAUTY OF LONG
AGO HAS HER SHARE OF PULCHRITUDE
. r S
V' k- -' A ' '
S XA
Mile. Palerme.
Mile. Cina Falerme, who is acknowledged to be one of the most beauti
ful actresses on the international stage, is a direct, descendant of the re
nowned French beauty of the sixteenth century, Mile. Marie Charlotte i
Maulmont. Mile. I'alerme's name in private life is Marie Louise Maul
mont. This picture of her was taken recently while she was enjoying a
holiday at the seashore.
leading in the race for premier base
ball honors by the narrow margin of
one series, so that a victory by the
National League representatives would
tie the standing at six series all. Go
ing back to 1905, when the New York
Nationals defeated the Philadelphia
, Athletics four games to one in a
series in which every game was a
shut-out, the American League stand
ard bearers have won six series anil
. the Nationals five.
I Although outplayed in the series to
date the National League teams have
. won more games and scored nior
runs than their Amerlran League
I rivals, when the eleven series are con
sidered as a whole. From 1905 to
; 1915 the two pennant winners of the
major leagues have met annually in
a series of World's Championship
I games, the winner of the title to be
I the team which first wins four games
I out of the seven yearly scheduled.
l"p to the present but one team won
, four games straight, the holders of this
j unique record being the BOston Na
; tionals of 1914, which defeated the
- Philadelphia Athletics four times in
a row and thus brought about the
, breaking up of what many consider to
be the greatest baseball machine in
i the history of the game. The New
York Nationals and the Boston Amerl
. cans figured in the longest series
when they played eight games in 1912,
Boston winning four; New York three
and one game being a tie. In 1907 the
i Chicago Nationals defeated the Detroit
I Americans four games straight but
the series consisted of five games, the
' first being a tie at 3 to 3 when dark
ness halted the play.
( Comparing the work of the teams
i In the eleven series to date It will be
found that sixty-one games have been
played of which the National League
clubs have won thirty; the Americans
twenty-nine, with twO games tied. The
average for the series are as follows:
games per series, 5 6-11; runs per
series, 27 6 11; runs per game 6 3-4.
For the National League 169 players
on sale daily until further notice.
will be free of tax to foreigners.
and
Russia's population Is now 1S2.1S2.
000. Since 1914 there was an Increase
' of 3,800.000 or 2 per cent, and since
'l897 an increase of 53,000.000.
GE?T
i OULOS. GREEK COM..1.-A)ER,
4 I 1 I T-1 NT A tS 4 ix'cn I ! I T f ' 1 f XtO
i 6'?f Vfllfwf
of the Peking government on Santon
, and Kwangtung province is so very
: slender that it is doubtful whether its
j new appointee will be able to restore
i harmony when he reaches Canton.
In the meantime General Tsen Chun
i hsuen and General Li Cieh-chun. who
' pretend to be patriots prompted only
by a desire to displace General Lung
Chi-kuang, whom they denounce as a
monarchist and a man thoroughly out
; of sympathy with the republican gov
I ernment. have been attacking the sn
1 burbs of Canton for weeks, aud are
blockading the river.
The United States has several small
gunboats lying in the West River for
the protection of Shameen Island, upon
which practically all the Europeans
live. The Japanese also have several
warships in the river, and a number
of antiquated Chinese gunboats are
engaged in the struggle which has
: been going on for some time. The
i revolutionists have drafted several
I steam tugs into service, and equipped
!them with rapid firing guns and ser
; eral larger guns. Indiscriminate
shooting has been going on for weeks,
with the result that bullets and mis
placed shells have been falling in the
vicinity of the foreign settlement and
life has been greatly endangered in
many parts of the Chinese city .
The foreign warships have at times
been within ranee of the fire ex
changed by Lung Chi-kuang's men and
the forces of his two ooponents. One
sailor on the lT. S. S. Helena was
wounded by a spent bullet which hit
him in the foot. Several foreigners
have had narrow escapes on Shameen
Island, and the foreign consuls have
ordered their subjects to keep away
from the water-front and remain in
doors as much as possible. The firinii
continues both day and night, and con
sequently it is never safe to move
i about in the foreign section.
I Shameen Island, upon which all the
j foreign consulates and most of the
I foreigu business houses are located.
Is only about one and a quarter miles
in circumference. It Is separated from
the main city by a narrow creek of
great depth, which can be crossed
only by two iron bridges that are
thoroughly barricaded.
General Moschopoulcs.
The commardcr in chief of the Greek army,
has ordered the niol-ilization of his forces on the
. urns me
j bcir.R rushed thither us ijuickly as transportation con Le procured. A cam
paign with the object of crushing Bulgaria is being carefully planned.
When You Take Cold.
With 'the average man a cold is a
serious matter and hould not be
trifled with, as so.ne of the most dan
gerous diseases start with u con-mon
rOld. Take Criamberlairi'- Ccueh
Remedy and get rid of your cold as
quickly as possible. You are not ex
perimenting when you use this remedy,
as it has been in use for many years
and has an established reputation. It
contains no opium or other narcotic.
Obtainable everywhere.
(Atfvtrttsement.)
Newspaper straw canvass in 27
states of 48.9S7 voters shows 22.032 for
Wilson. 26.126 for Hrghes. Among
20.975 votes classified as to preference
in lfl2. democratic gain Is 2066. re
publican 8473: Roosevelt shift to Wil
son Is 1038 and to Hushes 4199: of
Tafe votes to Wil.-On 678 and of Wil
son votes 2012 to Hughes.
