jKr ,'.
: if"
JWI
W:" '. m
fc
' raiwr r?- ? ;
Weather forecast
Fair, Warmer
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
mmm
.
NUMBER 9047.
WASHINGTON, SUNDAY. EVENING, OCTOBER 8, 1916.
PRICE ONE CENT.
U-BOAT SINKS
I'-
WHffi.Wit'.Qf $:
IJiewatotwf
Sunday Evening
Edition
ENGLISH
LjLL 1 Jlj j
Ml AIJF JjMf;) SOCIETY GIRLS WHO VISITED U-BOAT
FROM LINER,
AFIRE AT SEA
Coast Guard' Cutter Onondaga
Rescues Passengers and
Crew of Antilla.
AT WORK FIGHTING FLAMES
Captain of Government Boat
Reports He Will Try to Tow
Ship. In.
The spectacular rescue of passengers
ad crew of the burning Ward Line
tenner Antlfla. oft the Virginia capea
wu reported to Washington by Captain
ruler, of the coaat guard cutter Onon
daga today.
Captain Farley sent the following
radiogram which wa received by the
Arlington itatlon and ftrwarded to the
coaat guard aervlce:
1 , Farley's Message.
"The Onondaga rrlved alongside the
burning steamer ArrtUla at ?:S1 this
morning and put a stream on the fire;
rapidly gaining control:- Will attempt to
tow the, Antilla and yacht Into Hamp
ton Roads. Will take passengers and
crew."
Captain Farley reported his position
as lib miles east of Norfolk In his radio
gram. The message received by the Navy
Dspartmeal relieved all anxiety of the
fate of v the unkown number of pas
sengers and the crew of forty-six who
war last reported to be taking to the
boat by 8. O. 8. calls for help from the
burning steamer.
No Mention of Somerset.
No mention Is made by the Onodago
oeramander of the ateamshlp Somerset,
which was reported to bo nearest the
Antilla when first wireless calls for help
were made.
Neither the Navy Department nor the
coast guard had any Information to
show whether the Somerset reached the
burning vessel In time to pick up any
of the passengers or crew.
The radiogram from Captain Farley
that he quotes will take passengers and
(Continued on Page Thirteen.)
mIWinto
publicity game
fAN ANTONIO. Tex., Oct. 8,-Zapata's
first press agent has arrived in tne
United States.
He is In this city, announcing that lie
stole through 'he states controlled by
Carransa to tell of Zapata's aspirations
in an agrarian way. His presence ap
pears to hint that Zapata mean to
become an Idol In America and Inject
himself Into the governing game of
Mexico as a whole.
The agent Is Octavlo Paz, fresh from
southern Mexico with the harsh words
of Indians rasping over his tongue,
"Zapata's agrarian policy Is exactly In
keeping with the agrarian talk of tne
American-Mexican commission at At
lantlo City," said Senor Pas, thus show
ing that Zapata Isn't asleep, and Is
checking In at the psychological mo
ment. "My great leader," red-haired Pas
sa)s with his voice and long, limber,
expressive hands, "Is In complete mas
tery of ten States and has an army of
lCO.OOO. Ko Is not fighting Carranza now,
nor are his constitutionalists pushing
him. Carranza, to be let alone, is will
ing to keep liar.-s off.
"Zapata Intends to divide the land
equitably among the poor. He Is gain
ing power."
Paz has a letter from Zapata. The
PCa- aasnt declares he will push Ills
ijllclty throughout the country and
elevate American opinion of the south
ern leader.
Pas speaks no English, but prattles in
universal tongue wth nls hands.
Arredondo Leaves for
U. S. From Mexico City
MEXICO CITY, Oct 8. Ambassador
Arrendondo, accompanied by Colonel
Barragan. of General Carranza's staff,
left for Washington via Eagle Pais,
planning to stop at Cuatio Clenegas for
a short visit with his family.
The Japanese embassy gave Arredondo
a farewell banquet.
"jkwT ' Myrji
FMvJ
MISS MARGUERITE CAPERTON,
Daughter of Rear Admiral Capertoa,
Washington Girl On
German Naval U-Boat
Washington was well represented In
the coterie of Newport society folk who
visited the German war submarine
which arrived nt the fashionable resort
yesterday, Miss Marguerite Caperton
and Miss Margaret Fahnestock, two
Washington society girls, being the first
to land on the decks of the underseas
craft when she entered the harbor.
The correspondent of The Washington
Times at Newport talked over the phone
this morning with Miss Fahnestock, and
foynd her most enthusiastic over her
experience.
Had "Jolly Little Time."
"Oh, we had quite a jolly little time
on board the German ship," said Mies
Fahnestock to the correspondent. "We
shook hands with Capt. Hans Rose (pro
nounced Hosa), and exchanged smtles,
but he didn't nsk us any direct questions
about anybody or anything.
"Then lie passed us over to some of
fliers, who showed us all over the ship
and explained the various portions of
tliu Intrluuto machinery, all Greek to
Miss Marguerite Caperton and myself,
though I understood German all right
and told niy friend Miss Caperton what
they said.
"I shall have to confess right now that
thu offlcera were Just awfully nice "to
us. Now It Is all over, we areJ glad
glad wc had a chance to go oboard a
WRIGHTSON QUITS JOY RIDERS STEAL
ORATORIO SOCIETYTAGS OF INNOCENT
Sydney Uoyd Wrlghtson, musical 'di
rector of the Washington Oratorio So
ciety, has tendered his resignation from
that office, according to announcement
of the directors. The board accepted the
resignation.
Mr. Wrlghtson organised the Washing
ton Oratorla Society five yeors ago. and
has been its musical director ever since.
Hamlin G, Cogswell, musical director
of the public schools of the District, was
elected by the board to succeed Mr,
Wrlghtson. Mr. Wrlghtson will con
tinue as a director of the society.
The first meeting of the society will
be held Monday evening, Octobor 16,
In the chapel of the Church of the
Covenant, Eighteenth and N streets,
northwest, at 8 o'clock.
Mr. Cogswell, new director of the
society, came to the public schools a
year ago, and has been actively en
gaged in musical work In Washlncton
since his arrival.
Italians Take Peak.
ROME. Oct. 8.-One of the Rusa Alta
?eaks has been captured by the
tallans. the defenders having heen
practically wlncd nut, It l officially
announced. Twenty survivors, were
captured.
OFF
ff t iniITii ir
German submarine. Bo everybody is
asking us all kinds of questions about
our visit. My father Is saying 'don't say
too much.' so good-by."
Report In current In Newport that
that there were at least twenty tor
pedoes aboard the ship. The crew all
wore sheepsktn Jackets lined with wool,
allowing that they were prepared for all
kinds of weather. The Impression pre
vails at Newport that the mystery ship
may be hovering around Nantucket.
Wanted to See Americans.
The officers and crew of the submarine
when they came In yesterday wanted to
see "real Americans." Everyone In New
port flocked to the shore to find some
means of reaching the craft.
Miss Caperton, whose father Is Rear
Admiral William E. Caperton. U. S. N.,
had the "drop" on the rest of the con
tingent of curious, and In a rew min
utes was speeding an a naval launch to
the side of the submersible.
Her WnshlmUon chum. Miss Fahne
stock, who Is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Gibson Fahnestock, of Massachu
setts avenue, this city, was by her side.
They were the first to board the craft,
and were just as pleased over tho fact
as they could be.
It Is needless to say that within a
few minutes they were the hub of an
admiring group of German officers, and
that the first Impressions of those tars
of "real Americans" wu better than
good.
Keep your eyes on your license tags,
motorists, jf ou would avoid being
arrested as automobile bandits.
This Is the odvlco of Inspectator
Grant, ohlef of detectives, and here
Is how lie came to give It out:
Bicycle Policeman Little, of th
Ninth Precinct, jaw an automoblld
pass him :n Seventh street north
west yesterday. He saw that It car
ried the numbers of the machine of
J. G. Goolsby, of E610 Fourteenth
street northwest, which was stolen
yesterday morning.
Little overtook the car and com
pelled Its owner to go to police head
quarters. The man protested his In
nocence, but there were the numbers!
At headquarters it was found that
the machine was not of the same
make as GaolBby's.
A trip wab mode to the home of
the man who had been brought to
headquarters and In an alley In the
rear was found he stolen car aban
doned with the license tags, of the
Innocent motorist on It.
The heft of license tags to he
placed an stolen cars Is a new wrlnkln
I of Washington's Joyriders.
PORTSMOUTH
k ' - (
MISS MARGARET FAHNESTOCK.
Daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Gibson
Fahnestock.
United PreBS Staff Correspondent.
BAN ANTONIO, Oct. 8.-The Third
Iteglment Infantry, District mlllUa, is
expected to go Into camp near Fort
Sam Houston tonight.
General Funston today waa Informed
by Col. Glendle I). Young that the three
sections of the train were on schedule
Utile, and that the last one would reach
San Antonio about midnight. The first
and second sections bringing the First
and Second flattallons and machine gun
company, are due here at 8 tnd 9
o clock, respectively.
All th ceo sections will be taken totho
rallroad'termlnnl at Fort Sam Houston,
about a mile from the camp site, al
ready assigned to Colonel Young's com
mand. The three battalions may spend
the night In the shelter tents and pitch
camp at daybreak tomorrow.
The Third Regiment will relieve the
First Illinois, which leaves tomorrow
for Springfield,
The members of Troop A spent today
exploring the gigantic reservation
known as Camp Wilson while many of
them attended services In the Y. M. C.
A. or witnessed athletic contests.
The troopers are happy over the re
turn of Pete Anderson and Granville
fitone, who got left In Knoxvllle a,nd
came here yesterday with Battery C,
Virginia artillery
Private P. H. Cathcart has been dec
orated by his fellow troopers for cap
turimr the first tarrantula since tho
District militia men arrived here.
Ail the soldiers are well, happy, and
enthusiastic.
None Cheat Cars
On Way to Church
A conductor was wending his way
through the crowded aisle of a Mary
land line car this morning, shouting
for fares, and, Incidentally, treading
on corns as he went,
Up near the front of the car a few
hands bobbed up from the crowd and
poked tickets In the conductor's face,
A little further down two more hid
den passengers punched 'him In the
ribs and offered him their fares. A
smoker on the roar platform noticed
the demonstration of honesty and ad
dressed the guardian of the register:
"Say, bo. if that keeps up they'll
establish the honor system on street
cars and thfow you out of a ob."
Unmoved by the suggestion, the con
ductora rather comical conductor
it -would seem replied:
"Oh, no: this Is Sunday morning.
They don t try. to beat the company
on their way to church."
WDREGMENTTO-
GOINWTOIHtS
U-53 OPENS
AFTER
German Naval Submarine Destroys First Victim Close to American
Shores After Holding Up Vessel: U-53 Brings Menace to
Allied Shipping, Not Peace Message, Says Bernstorff.
The German U-boat which arrived at Newport yesterday, began
it work of destruction on this side of the Atlantic shortly after day
break this morning.
The first victim of the submarine, as reported from Boston, is the
British steamer West Point. The submarine, which evidently had
been lying just off Portsmouth, N. H., during the night, fired three tor
pedoes at the British ship and sank her.
At the first signal from the submarine the Britisher began calling
loudly by wireless for help. Boston picked up the call and notified
the nearest available naval station, which rushed boats to rescue the
crew.
Boston dispatches say that the crew of the ' West Point took to
their small boats, and that all were saved. The ship sank shortly
afterward, according to a later message.
Another message from Boston says that the American steamer
Kansan was halted by the submarine off Nantucket earlier, but later
was allowed to proceed unmolested.
News of the submarine's activities, the first time during the war
that one of the U-boats has operated on this side of the Atlantic,
created a panic in allied shipping circles.
The submarine had fifteen torpedoes on board when she visited
Newport yesterday, and at last accounts the submarine was still off
the coast waiting for more victims.
U-BOAT HAD
;e MESSAGE
Count von Bernstorff, the German am
bassador, made the positive declaration
today that the submarine U-53 brought
no peace message from Emperor Wil
liam. Of the submarine's real mission In en
tering American "waters at Newport yes
terday afternoon and slipping out mys
teriously after a three-hour stay, the
German ambassador Is wholly unadvised.
The mysterious letter which Captain
Rose of the Oerman U-boat gave to a
correspondent to mall to Count von
Bernstorff, had not arrived at the Ger
man embassy at noon today.
Not a Peace Message.
"But' you may rest assured of one
thing," the ambassador said. "The let
ter from the submarine captain con
tains no peace message and no com
munication of any character from my
government.
"If there had been such a communi
cation, it would have been brought to
the embassy by one of the submarine
officers, or the submarine captain would
have advised the embassy by telegraph
of his arrival, and an attache of the
embassy would have gone to Newport
to receive the communication."
Count von Bernstorff displayed little
Interest In the contents of the letter
which press dispatches had advised him
was on the way from Newport.
I "I can tell you now what Information
the letter will contain,'' the ambassador
I said. "I will merely report the arrival
of Captain Rose at Newport, and his
contemplated departure, and state that
. he Is under admiralty orders on his
I present cruise."
It was the customary thing for a Ger
I man "war vessel arriving at a foreign
I port to Inform the diplomatic repre
1 sentatlve of his government of the fact.
But being under admiralty orders, the
officer of the warship is under no obli
gations to and Is not accustomed to
make a report of his mission to diplo
matic officials.
Count von Bernstorff said he had re
ceived no intimation In dispatches from
his government of the presence of th
submarine warship In American waters.
(Continued on Second Pagt.)
nu rem
WARFARE DIRECT! Y
LEAVING SHORES OF II S.
Atlantic Shipping In
Panic Over Submarine
Gernfany has served notice to all the world that the
submarine warfare is to be carried to this side of the At
lantic. ' '
Such is (he interpretation placed here upon the sudden
arrival and equally sudden departure yesterday from New
port of the German naval submarine U-53.
That the submersible did not come to" this country to
bring a message of peace was the emphatic statement made
this morning by Count von Bernstorff, the German am
bassador. The ambassador stated furthermore he believed the
object of the trip was to harass allied shipping, especially
that outbound from Canadian ports to. England.
That the shipping interests and the representatives of
the allied governments believe the submarine was bent on a
mission of war and not one of Reace is evidenced by the
panic which spread today through shipping circles.
All traffic out of Boston and at the Chesapeake Bay
capes was stopped, some of the traffic out of New York has
been halted, and all up and down the Atlantic today the
wireless streamed out warnings to the ships now at sea to
change course and avoid the ordinary lanes of ocean travel.
PANIC STRIKES SHIPPING.
The tremendous significance placed
upon this surprising visit, and Its
panic-like effect upon allied shipping
from America Indicates a growing be
lief that U-boat war Is to be transferred
to this sldetof the Atlantic.
Fear Presence' of Fleet.
It Is not the mere knowledge that there
Is lurking somewhere off the north' At
lantic coast In the path of trans-Atlantlo
shipping a single enemy submarine that
causes such larm. Borne naval experts
I
ttr? now confident that. Just as Germany
established Secret, bases of operations
for submarines In Mediterranean wa
ters, and on the Irish const en she has
a base somewhere In the west Atlantic
from which not one. but n notlB of,
commerce destroyers might operate
against the troop ships and supply bear
ers frotmCanada and the munitions car
rlera sailing from New York.
United States offlciala take a deep In
terest, in the visit of the submarine
when considered In Its bearing upon A
renewed policy" of aggression In subma
rine warfare, with Its inevitable rsvlvat
