Stilt.
THE WEATHER FORECAST. '
Fair to-day and to-morrow; moderate
southeast to south winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 64: lowest, 46,
Petalled weather, mall and inatllte retrofits on page 10
IT- SHINES FOP ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 59.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1916. Copyright, 1916 by the Sun Printing nnd PuliUshtng Asjoctotion.
58 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
HUGHES SWINGiZSiHUGHES calls eight
haw ctdmmdd
nun uiuuhuuu
EAST AND WEST
What a Careful Canvass of
Doubtful States Seems
to Show.
SITUATION IX OHIO
CAVSES PERPLEXITY
Wisconsin Likely to He
Won by Narrowest of
Jfarjrins.
TIIOOLKSOME FACTOR
OF "WOMEN'S VOTE
Most of the Eastern States
Regarded as Sure for
G. 0. P. Candidate.
A survey of political conditions In
the States most commonly called i
doubtful has been made by Tun Srs
In cooperation with Ave other leading
i.ewspapcrs the Chicago Tribunr. the
St Louis G!ooe-)rmorra, the Boston
lleroM. the Minneapolis Journal and
the San Francisco Chronicle and the
results nre printed below.
Without undertaking to nuke a defl
site nroahecv. this much Is Indicated 1
w .i. . ti,,i . .-in.. m ,
b these That a 10 i
Wilson, noticeable a few weeks aBo. ,
has apparently been checked and there
is now an Indication or a counter)
.... -t. 1 ...... . . n t ...... k.l I n n.nn..
nmr in iaor oi i.ic nvimunt.aii
d;date.
O'n every hand, however, come ad-
minions that unusual conditions are
to I faced, that new Issues have
raurctl new alignments, that racial
prejudices are factors hard to reckon :
-.LL. , . U n aha Cn.n 11lln.il. '
IWtil. J1UIC ii'11 W.W CWH, ,t.va
notably, has for the first time the
nomtn to figure on nnd the cry of the
Dmocrats Is. ''The women are for
Wilson " Connecticut faces another
but f.,11 i new problem, the tremen
dous Influx of munition workers, and
.,a lhise mirations tn answer- Can 1 rarnnam. urove at 1 I', sj toward tne in mis c ty ann inroucnout tne distinctly
tev vote' will they vote' an I W ""ad station they chatted and lau:hed agricultural region through which he
?t th . " over the days when Mr. Hug Vs and Mrs. travellel t -lay JerTern and St Law-
will they vole. j HJgg:ns as children of 5 made mud pies remv -ountles to topics tn which the
Here, vihen. are the views by Slates and squabbled over playthings. region s rr.ot interested, especially the
and by districts of some of the eoun- ' They were absorbed In conversation tariff and firm Americanism. The' can-
try'e trained watchtr of political w-hen the engine of their car "coughed" dldate's declaration on Americanism iris;
events: land stopped, none of Ihe four observing ' "I do not wart to I President of a pro-
for the moment that the car was on the pic that ate not ready to give their all
- railroad track nor did any c.f the four for fielr lard. trlr l.berty. the country
NEW YORK. see the campaign train come suddenly they Jove.' He ctve them whit's what
arcund the curve. At Uast fOO persons on the tariff, "howing the farmer Just
limine nmt Whitman tu Win With ! tn the street and near the depot saw it, how they were eoncerned and 'low the
. , .. . however. They shouted to the engineer, pr.ittt if . "leir grain and live stx-k are
i rnriirniiy snuie i lornlllirs. waved hats and shoute.1 a warning to the lsund in ?o down with i rus un.rs
A-nvs-T. 0't. tS. This State will be parly In the aurtimohllc. Mr. Cook, how- protection is had through tarn adjust-on-
e l a th substantial pluralities by ever was the first to note the train's ap- nients.
'in e tr.i Whitman, lccordlng to aiproaeh. ind It whk his quickness that ...
-V'.v made by competent political ob-' .o-illy forestalled a tragedy He ran lr"' ''""
v. up the track and Jut managed in time He dealt pretty heavtlv with the
Ti. survey Indicates a remarkable j to make the engineer see and hear him Adamson law In Its . eclil application
ce .ti the relative pluralities for the land obey the reverse signal. It was not to the Increase of. railroad rate., which
i ..ran earulldatfti for President and r,,sy to bring the heavy tteel tram, io- farmer must help 'o pa. and he em
vrnor comp.tred with previous years. ne Jt a brisk pace, '.o a full stop In phaslzed economy tn government. There
n r. "ie plurality j: tio rresioentui
1 date would exceed that of the
ra date for Governor by anywhere
r .T..000 to 133.COO. tor in.'t.ince. (
s Taft received a plurality oft
:,' while Hughes as Ihe Guberna- '
rr ,' tand.date received n plurality if
" ' This year It Is expected that
r u-a' ty of Hughea and Whitman i
n-'t - more than la.000 votes part'
'd that at present the outbwk Is that
v ir.sn's plurality may exceed the
llche plurality, despite the fart that
I .?hes Is New York State' favorite
's et!mate.l that Whitman will
a plurality of t least Jj.OOO. and
M s ie is likely to win the Slate by
ng IrsK than that total.
The national Republican campaign i
f.-are-s here have ben much dls-
-V'd at reports coming 'n from up-'
.- a e nil vv r.liman IS l Kr y to run
k fad of HnttheM. but there is no Nuirees
' that the Whitman campaign Is be- J
r5r itrli-d on to Ihe detriment of th !
Ie. ,!rrt!al ticket. Gov. Whitman felt .
t- uld have a hard Job running any
"'"'e near the plurality expected for
H'jshfs, but as the camjialgn has pro-r-e.sel
the Governor's friends have
-rni that comparatively few of the
II p'jh .inns who have been -rltlcislng t
I hinTn'stratlon and who oppoted his
, ; "V ." r.,v i n in it Vt
.:??".: .A c"?.Y.'!?ii-.,h0rf
... t .. .... . .
r.ei.uunr.-wi runruiQ men nno -ui
,e:uU,.ra,, ra.irXaQ men .
l- w generallv will le
' HatJ Tekrt? '
-pemocratlc campaign managers,
r -g that the tariff Is not an Issue I
- . ,smntn ,1..,... mt m.n.rtt..
A .. , th. Lc.: n.i ih. f.. .lUni
"-ept this country at peace" will
s v... u,.i. rt'iu,.. k.. ,
' . 000.' and 'that Seabury wllf tit
s-tjeeze throuirh. Tltev 'n.l.t il.at
w.Ve ,,o, for. the new-pemocrat.c
rat e state candidates would be
- .ertaln. The Pemoermir man-
eal.ze trat Ihe Massachusetts
' f ballot now used In thl State
e to Seabury thousands of votes
hey believe Wilson Kill get from
'publican side.
NEW JERSEY,
... . ,, .. '
Home tp ltr,.udl.(r I'rr.M. nt ,
b) '.',-,,00(1 lluuhra plnralitx, I
-., v rirt -Rv decisive I'en.ih.
i '.. ' '' v7..'.. A..., i
bv . , Tne Jnai nV. i
of ine (stale rieprot.e
m oi i-resuiem vvi.s.n n nis
and is conceded w-l y" l,y ?"
i. " riLbrVtha. wi nn . li ,
... 1... n ,.1,,.nltt.. n . .t.A.i, ,.nnl
. h , r
le ton of a Republican L'nlted
.ZZrltiriti WifZZ
BBF'-
r rJSLSfL"! Lh:,,MtlVJ:itlon'
senator, Joseph S, Frellnghuj sen,
( n'lMurd on ''h:(i rapt.
TO TAKE PRISON "CURE
HOUR LAW A BRIBE
ft'. rtll... it I - tl I
j in i i.i if is to villi Mill .luiui-tr ui
lowing Kpiilomfc of .
"Outbreak Fever."
KvK'Mn'r SJ.wTpri
Mutual
prison lost
jfour of It mot prominent fateweller i
yesterday w hoi William Anson, Thomas
Hyland. Alfred St-lnaner and Jean I
i Klrschner made parcel of (heir tooth-'
brushy and pipes to takeup residence
. In Clinton prison. It was with reluctance
and regret they left the Sing Slag com-1
I forts. Clinton has little esteem among '
.convict. Sport shltts. flowing tics and
tennis shoes are not permltte.1 as part,
'of the up-State uniform, and there Is
little indulgence In the Indoor and out- J
door recreations that were prescribed In
the Plug Sing cunlculum. I
Anson, It will tic remembered, was the
m.in who, clothed In Ihe stolen can and !
rubber cost of a cuard. sounded the
sesame signal that let him and five other
convicts out of the grounds a few weeks I
ago. Hyland was In the little band of'
deserter and Stelnauer carried a re-
volver on
dolefully.
the occasion that ended so,
It was not in that e.cue Uiat Kiicn
ner distinguished .himself. He gamed
fame some time ago tiy substltutlns a
dummy of straw In his cell while he
scaled the wall. Ills migration did not
last long. Guards recently noticed more
symptoms of Inventiveness and so rent
him to Clinton to let the deserting dls
ase run Its course.
MR.AND HRS.HUGHES
ESCAPE COLLISION
In Motor Car They Are Nearly
Run Down by Candi
date's Train.
I
OopENsnrno. N. V.. Oct. IS. The Re-
publican candidate for President, his
wife. Mr,. John D. HUtrfns. a friend from
childhood days of both Mr. and Mrs. .
Hughes, and Charles W. Farnham, Mr.
,,,1Kh.s our mln!1ri camr ncftr np
,,..,. ,,,a ,M. ,.,r,n
., n... ,
st Oswego.
Tnt. nlot0r car in which they
. .. .....
w't re returning io ine station .".ontea
'squarely on the railroad track when Its
' rnpine fUni. ,,nii at ,hat moment Mr.
,luph(..., own lraln fam, MplllIy from
arounj , curve.
The watchfulness and presence of mind
of 12. V. Cook, the New York Central
Itallroid's representative with Mr. ,
Hughes, brought the train to a stop
when the locomotive was not ten feet
from the motor car.
After speaking at Oswigo Mr. Hughes 1
Joined Mrs. Hughes and Mrs. Illgglns.
, The la'ter stud'ed at Wells '"olleg" hen
. Mrs. Hughes did. A the three, with Mr.
such a short space, and the hundreds of
persons who realize.) the peril of those
the limousine were literally shaken
annhenslon.
jjr. Hughes's chauffeur, worked des-
JK.rMtrly with his engine and got the car
eonK ju.t , the train began to slow
ii't,un tu InminMlv. ttnnn,1 .t
. ,'., 4a.a. lh() auto was t.acked off
, k .
Another motor car, containing netvspa- smiling, 1 in a real, old lime Republican
per men, was In graver danger even, be-, community like "his.
cause Its driver was not able to get the S Lawrence county 1 Incurably Re
automobile off the track at all. The publican and while there Is not an open
Hughe car had blocked the way. Had . season on penid'rats eac'l.v their lot
rot th., train been tonned the car would I lonesome and their life is gray. Who
have been smashed, and there was at
least an even chance that the Hughes
r rould not have fscap"!.
Mr. and Mrs. Hughes heard the shouts
and warning cries, saw many men wav-
' - "-- L i
taking IT coats and waving them, but
kept cool.
xirTTCrtW TtTDV tTrWTTJ PSPAPrS
Mnrrla Diamond, Who Wrote Let-,
ier, !iih Way From Aajtlnni.
PiTTSBUr.o. O.-L IS. Morris Piamond
of Ray City. Mich., who was sent to Ihe
l. .a llnsihn in innnth rj-i
,V,er v Zlrret ' herrfor "end Irs hreat-
l " h.l',..""eS.' w . ,m
ri.wifc. ..-..v.e . .
r..k V. h. V" . ' f'"
men Croke down the door of their ward
and sawed the bar, of the street door,
Piamond has been under observation by
m determine his sanity.
' nt.ln. .r.n. was reported lo the
Federal authorities and secret service
.. in Nr.irshalsea lo loin
the se.ir hlttg party. When Piamond
.. .. .rr..ted he told the po Ice mysterl-
voices were calling on him to kill
STRIKE OF COOKS NEARER.
Cnnrpsalona lir larize lintels Stir
I nrril In Oilier Klleliena.
If demands of l'OO hotel cooks for a
ten hour lay and one day off a week are
I not granted oon, tneie win ie a mine
Ir. Manhittan kltchenH, It was announced
t the -lse of a Hireling n. Id yC3trraay
)n ,lr.an, Korty-sv ond street and
Sixth avenue,
Snm" " tY 1,irK" hol! n'' r"sau-
rants have made the concessions. crat -
ling general dissatisfaction smong iho
.. . ..... ... ....n ,....,..i -
".. , ,.;dWard J. Illochllnger. or-
, ' v
1
1 HnnU llolibrr. rt a-l.ooo.
. L-nn f,.t
i,,,r : x,.r;s,. z:':.
.. Robbers
1 n l.litl ll'ver. a small town west nf
I here, lart night and escapetl with about
14,1100. The robbery was discovered lo-
I day.
Candidate Virtunlly Charges
Wilson Tried to Buy the
Labor Vote.
l)fmvm Trt TIIV (IfVirV
"IMIUMMJ UO THh Orrltf.
i,nl1 ,nL.. i p,n(!. t nf l...
i sa. ariinv. "
competent (Jrent Kally
nt Ofrdeiislmrjr.
,
i
Charles!
tvmc.Nscfitd. N. V., Oct. if.-
K.
Hughes has directly accused I'resl-
Jent Wilson of trjltm to buy thf labor
vole, using the Adameon law as th.
brlbf. made tne cUtgr n,r,. ,.
...... , . ... ,
n'B"t course of a speech delivered
before 1,000 men In the Olirru House
and he made It with all of the contempt
i and d.sguit he could express,
The audience gasped at nrst .it the
tcrrlne significance and Impoit of the
accusation one seldom made In Amerl-
' nn nniitir. .. i.. their
feet, applauded thunderously It was tlon Itureau has been understood to have
obvious to every hearer that Mr. Hughes at semi-official relations with the
was never more earnest In his life than 'mbassy. its status has never been
at the moment when, by the strongest dearly defined. Embassy officials Ro
und most unmistakable of Inferences. fr;'1 emphatically that Mr. Arredondo
he charged Woodrow Wilson with hav- haJ not been consulted before the state
Ing dishonored the Presidency. '"'nt '"V1 ftnd ha, D knl?1
Not content with thf. Mr. Hughes h contemp Htlon. his. first
bethought himself of one Newton IX knowledge of It com Ing after the
Baker. Secretary of War. and while l,urtau haJ distributed tt to the news-
hammering the biggest Democrat took ,,arfrf". ,, , ,u ,..,.. ,,, ,.
., , ... ,t,M It was sa Id at the bureau that the
Htne or P I statement had been obtained from Mr.
oi.es. Cabrera directly and w.is made public
linker In Class A.
"He Is In class A of the incompetents
of thli Administration." said Mr. Hughes.
who !ad already Included Josephus Dan
I lels among the As. "He Is so busv ex
, plaining his extraordlnarj" and unfot
I tunate statements that he has no time
to anenn to tne duties o: ine ar w
partment."
This naturally led Mr, Hughes to say
whit kind of an administration he will
s've If elected. He nude himself plain,
"Sjf " T"hJ TXly tl
u. aVoldln such types as Bryan. Baker
'and Daniels. He Is going to consider
hlmw the business manager of the
department store In the world.
the 1. S. A., and run the country the
way
tig private enterprises are run.
roo
nomically. efficiently and under sound
VPIlf Ivm llltHp.f mV .1 n
rJ
Then too he promises a protective
tariff which without giving special favors
l) any (.-roup of managers will be an
absolute bulwark sgalnst the rush of
Ku.ojean raade goods after the war.
He pledges himself to stand up for
every American citizen whv goes abroad
on respectable business, ordinary, every-
day matters.
He declared that no country, big or
little, will be able to murder American
citizens and confiscate or destroy their
property anil get aw.y with it while he.
Charles II Hughes. i in oiV.ce.
Mr Hughes devoted special attention
was plenty of 'pep' In the ,and!dae
and a let of ginger In his audiences-lots .
of action, noise. tlr, color
The mace ti flr.d the real old fash
loned II. publican rallies, farmers crowd-
Ins Into town, four quart hats lontlng
out of dry dock, torchlights moklrg and
fllrWerinr. hurris otinrrellmc nl.r "T!te
Star Spangled Itanner." everytdy veil-
(rB (lls head off. e.ndldate Iwwitig and
shall wonder, therefore, that Charlr K.
Hughes had the time of hi life ir. this
city 'o-nlaht and In Jefferson and St.
Lawrence .ountles this afternoon?
II talked to lJ.ooo. mct of them
farmers and small town business men.
I i,lJ Sv mnne tnnre
and was applauded h-. as matij more
that couldn't wedge into the halls or get
r.eir the train. On every side he was
nvsuicd that lUh counties are going tn ngilnsl the Government tn (.ollm.i, Met
exceed their customary Republican ma- 1 Ico, Oaxaca nnd Chiapas. All the'e te-
Jorltv. Jefferson promising 5. 500 and St,
1-iwreneo pledging at lean S.000.
.. ............. .inn.
that 'jn-State'New York Is tremendously , Felix Plaz. Plaz himself escaplnr across made his own plates, being huh an
Repub ban this year and will roll such I the border of Chiapas and taking refuge "Pr Photographer and first clas in
waves of ounty pluralities down to the In Guatemala. Alt the Zapatistas haxe er Likewise, he passed all of hi
HO! Hit t' S ..ll uvrt itni'H .nil'
miny: New York city vote. The altl-
S'of the pe.,.le toward Mr Hughes
... ., ....i,,, Vetvarlc Oswet-n.
.dav when he visited Newark. Oswego,
Watertown and O-tlfwhuK bore out facilities, the enemies of the Govern-
these predictions. They came In droves ment have acquired In the Fnlled States
aad whooped approval of everylhlm; hwM"
sakl. Government will eventuallj suppress the
To-night In this cll ...000 men , movement.
marchfd It. a orclillzht parade singing'
aa snouting
Streets and
H"'!". Their
uicnuons uim t " '' ""r1
lZT iRigreeS
AMW.
After xr4l by n?m.sen?a.
SP'SIL,' u',, " . , 3
tlve II. H. Snell Mr. Hughes begaii his,
speech with the broad statement that it
great constructive programme is needed
to mtet the needs of a new- era. A new
I'nlted Stales must be ready to meet the
Hump that will appear. Its peo -
.)( disciplined and eneiglzed after Ihe
w(r ,ie believe,! the Republican party
,ial ,n greut things for the nation,
blA ,,, t WIls soon to be calletl nn to
,0Ve tremendoUt. ptohlrrr.s. He said'
w, are a.Ke'd what events wc arc
, f.,ce In the next two, three or four
js3rs mart can answer. No on lias
..Ver been able In ti Ptesldental cum-
naKn to forecast the exigencies which'
. . . .u.
imr w. debate the matters which seem
-. , , ' , ."
but alter all th iluestons
Inirtant relaie In the principle,
' thni are to be applied. Particular eventa
' ii"'oi '"'"V
-i n think there ha. .v.r been
0" Administration
tho precise nature
of whose dlltleultlet, were understood at
CntillnurJ on Eighth, I'age. ,
as itiej eoun.. iiiiuat.ii vow neen n spin m ine i-nnsuiuiionniiei .t unostentatlouslv as he we..t
finally crt.wd'ng the Opera ranks, while ihe facts are that the great-' ,7 " ' ," ,VJ' !",'. '."'. .. ....
enthusiasm anil the In- e,, Generals nnd the most linpnrtant I fjovernment first dlcovered coun erfe It
MEXICAN ATTACK ON WILSON
DISAVOWED BY CABRERA
Statement Attributed to Mexican Commissioner As
t sailed President's Policy as Indifferent and
Blamed U. S. fof Revolts Across Border.
Washington, Oct. IS. New complica
tions with the Mexican de facto Govern
ment threatened to-day as a result of
a statement Issued here thtoudi the
Mexican Information Bureau and at
tributed to Luis Cabrera. It nivalis
In sharp lanjuage American neutrality
and the administration of Immigration
laws as regards Mexico. Mr Cabrera
Is Minister of Finance In Carranza's
Cabinet and president of the Mexican
nAM.f..tnn ....... ..-. l.l.i.tlmw In th.
. . r.;f.nr. .,'r t.r,ier difficulties
(lt Atlantic City
While refusing to enter Into any tils-
cusslon of the atement at this time,
Administration officials characterized It
as cxtraordln,ry. secretary lousing
would make no comment. It Is known,
however, that steps to establish the au-
ir.enncity or tnc document were tasen
"'" consideration Immediately,
, M seo Anedcndo. Mexican Ambassa-
"or - designate. denied himself to all
callers. Although the Mexican Inorma-
with his approval.
The statement, which bars the name
of the bureau and the word "ofticl.il"
111 addition to the introduction attribut
ing It to Mr. Cabrera. Is p.s follows
A broad Interoretatlon of the Fed
eral laws .if the l'ntte.1 States dealing I
with nriitralltv and regulating Itn- 1
migration with a strict, consistent and
efficient udmtnlsUHtlon of these laws
by the executives to whom their ad
ministration Is dnleiSated would go a
long was toward correcting the bor
der disturbances and allay much of
tte unrest which at present pervades
that region.
In the United Slate are many Mex
icans and groups of Mexicans Inimical
to the Carrarja government. Plottlius
and schenilifts are engaged in, not
alone by the extreme conservatives,
who .ire striving to bring on Interven
tion with the hoi thai tl-.e constitu
tional got eminent shall be detto)ed
with the aid of American armies, but
ali-o there are groups of extremely
radical malcontents, whose hope Is the
destruction of tht Car ran ta govern
ment In order that license, banditry
and rapine may continue and multiply
until human rights and property ar
all destroyed.
The coru'-ervrtllvr. reactionaries. ar
taking adrantage of the situation cre
ated by the ultraradicals. The im
portstiem r-f- -trms and munition for
the use of Villa. Zapata and the other
Kindt tn and brigands is conducted un
der the very ees of euplr.e ofliclals.
whoee business It would be to hinder
their transmls'lon across the border.
The propaganda of revolt against
constituted order Is being promoted
by nitres, of conspirators known to
both the Mexican and the Aihimc.i'i
uncials, who. bj even tne most strlctl
llterjl interpretation of America s ru
nilgiatlJii laws, should l-e deported
tlom tile United States.
That tile American Government 1
CARRANZA SAYS
VILLA GOT U.S.-AID1
(iiil"'(i Klll'lllic" lf Hi's (lOV-1
1 ""l l r'"1 '
erniiient Found Asislimce
in This Country.
Mr.xico Citt. Oct. I. That Ihe VII.'
.T. Zyr l! . ' ,
given the enemies of the Constitution-
allst Government In tho United States
was the declaration of Gen. Carratiza
In a statement the gave lo the press
to-day
Carranza added that his Government
would eventually suppress the rebel
movement In Chihuahua.
The statement said in part :
"Various American newspapers have
waged :i campaign agalr-l Mexico, af
firming that t.ic situation was very grave
and that rebel forces during the last
few das lud gained Important victories.
port lire absolute.)- false.
the las", taw clays the Constltu -
i "In
iilnn.M.t. l.uve ,'..f.il.l tlie fotlowerK nf
lrril OH V rn ' ..iwm... ......
The only active movement has been that
of the Vllllsta. In Chihuahua, which has
v.a ,.l,' tn enntlnt.e tin .irenitnt nf the
been i.ble to continue i
civiiiai s w e unt.r.. . ,,r . -mu.
iflXlX
nrm'atlo'M
ceptcd. . . .
IT l Jt
... v.... ,.n-..r.i . .v...
lent, which I ac
"My family is now on a tr.t to the
, I'nlted Slates, but will soon rejoin me, I
as I am Indisposed to abandon this city t
because of the supposed machinations
I against ine, which do not exist, or the
' threats of the Zapatistas. I will leave
the capital when Ihe time arrives for
Ihe Constitutionalist Assembly to con
gregate at CJuerelaro."
FIRE OUT ON THE CHICAGO.
Vessel nn Wai' tn If pit York tla
da Binned With 'JHH Paaaenizers.
katai.. Axores. net. :s. firemen sue-
veiled to-day In extinguishing
.
toe
names in tne noin or tne i-rencn Line
dames In the 1
steamsljlp Chicago. The vessel was not
damaged.
The Chicago sailed from Rordeaux
October II. carrying 118 passengers
I bound for New York. A lire broke out
I In ?s!n it hold after the vessel had left
I the French port and she put Into Fayal.
,n - , ne z czaffKeti annttt tt,. rnm,i,.. ......i.
eomr'etenl to restrict and restrain the
exportation or arms ana munitions
Is provable by the fact that during the
Yc'Li 7hV u rr of HuerU thVs,
r1' eedlT
That the law governing the con
duct of undesirable aliens enn t-'
enforced l proved at Ellis Island an I
thtourhout the United States every
day "i. the year.
Acllvtty, energy, vigilance and per
sistency can correct the situation. In
I'lrtertnce, carelessness and nedle
llber.illt) can only make u bad -.use
wurje.
DISAVOWED BY CABRERA
Mr I Iran Itelesiate Saa He Did .Not
Write Statement.
Senor LuH Cabrera said eirly to-dav
nt the Mc.MpIn that no part o'f the
statement Iseued In Washington and
credited to him originated from any
speech or writing of his.
"1 am amaied." he said. "Tliere has
been a serious error somewhere.'
The entire statement was read to him !
over the telephone.
"I recognize no part of that as eman
ating from me," he said poltlvely. "I
have been In New York since Friday
nljht In four dayw I have written
nothing and have given out no state-
Totd that the Secretary of State was i
nnnojed at publication of .the statt ment j
on the grounds that any such complaint
hniil.l nr.t hue. ln .uhniltte.1 tn the I
Ktai. nm.titni.nt ,nnr Cabrera said'
H,?-WLlrar.?h
Ing that 1 wish to sleep over It. nut f.atlon. , II li estimated the Government will
Sunday I shall Is-ue a statement cov.:,The members who resigned were M . ( haVe to pay 200.000 .000 francs In boun-e-lnp
ih. !iuilon" : Hlggs. Minister of the Treasury of the unor lhf n(w aWi
He was
-
told that the "Mexican In.
formation Bureau'
had Bven It OU -
"What Is that- he askeel "Or vvho
are they- i never heard or sucn an
organization."
SURPRISE TO MEMBERS.
rrretnr l.nae 9aa Conference
Went Intn SmnrcBllnsT.
Atlantic citt. N. j.. oct. i.-The
statement issued at
t Washington to-day
credited to I.uls Cabrera was read by
the American meinlters of the Mexican-
America Joint Commission with aston
ishment nnd some Incredulity. Mr Ca
brera left here yesterday for New York.
"I do not believe Mr. Cabrera made
any such statement." said Secretary
I-inr, '"because we have had made a
most complete Investlzatlon of condi
tions along the border without finding
eviueiice w any consiueiaiiie KniuKunKi
and moreover since Carranza Is In con-
trol of the Mexican frontier If there Is
J". " " . ",r " " "
and ammunition
piilni I rv t -v Vilsi
lines
Charge that
there are In this country
perons who have availed tnemselv.s of
loopholes In the laws to aid different
Mexican nannits. ami mat smuggling ,
of arms and ammunition Into Mexico
has been conducted on
have been made
by the Mexican
have Iteen dlscu
tary Lane Inst
na time have th
their charges
that credited to
they have support
circumstantial
MAKER OF BOGUS
$100,000 CAUGHT
Sorrt't "ill'Vii'i Min Cn lit n in II
JHI" ' 1 " ( U " - HI II.
It.
Wilken After Im uit
of Siv Years.
i
After s'x ears work rmtei! Slates
Ptura the
.ab.est counterfeiter they ever have had
, to deal with, accordinz to the Jubilant
announcement last night of William J.
Flymi, chief of the bureau.
ne got wie news In a telegrap'ilc
report from his operatives In Santa
Cruz, Cal., where two days ago they
nrresied H. R. Wllkcn and lat night
drevv a confession from him. Thev also
got possession of his plates, which had
been hidden In Lo Ar.g.les and wh.eh
were, according to Mr !1 tin's descrip
tion, almost perfect
For six ears Wilken had escaped de
lection. In that time Federal authori
ties believe he made and passed spuri
ous currency to the value of lioo.oo.i
1 He made his own paper, and made It
. SO well that It passed rxitert cashiers.
own output. Thus he had no rorttl.
danls and never was haunled by the
fear of betrayal.
Other factors which kent him so Intie
Immune from arrest wrre the limitations
he set upon himself. He did not try to
beiore tne commission inn referendum anu tne tmjiorian'. inn i.ys.anu was iurieni,eii UIm smm ann iter. . ....
n representative and that wone-t voters v.nuld play in It. crew t ilien on board a submarine to a . '', """n
.e. at lencth. Secre- Mr llushe Issued n manifesto entitled ptlnt near the Norwegian coast, where . ' ' ; "... ' "'"'l"
Med, however, that at -To the Women of Australia " In they were placed aboard another Nor-
e Mexicans accompanied th. he .rit.ced the lahf-iie element. : vvgln v. I . r.:".." . , "
with language such as h w as aga';it conscription, and ap-1 The Norwegian teamer I rltzoe. while -,"'i ",' " .'', .'" """
Ir Cabrera, although ,.e.ile,t t.i the women to vole "its" on ' bo'ind from Larvik, Norway, to London '''",.. ", ..' '.,. ':; J"" l
ed their' claim., with Ihe dav of the referendum. He said., with .1 c.rgo of boards, has been taken . ':"' '"'; V. . Z.
riiurjin-. Anion? u;nrr . ..-. . .
...t.1. . 1 in 1'iii bnv.'tii Triu lirtflt.T-1 t. sim Irn-iavisir " ' ' 'm"11"" r i'k
see how much he could turn out 'n a i the centre and the protruding bat
ear. He was satlstled with HO.ooo or tle.ax, sjubols of unity Surrounding
so annually After months of careful central design is nn olive wreath, de.
, is " "r ui wurreney
Jio Federal reserve noies. nn the l.Lr.
of Minneapolis. w g they
nad neen in circulation Is uncertain The
'"" ', ' ' ... r. "
I rm.yic urrti in vv asningmn, wnen ail
"'' itni no n.us
with the same number
Circular were smt broadcast A
storekeeper In Santa f'ruz got hi two
days ago. Ho had Just finished reading
It, Chief Flynn was told, when a
stranger entered ma store ami offered
one of the spurious "lens" In p'imenl
for goods. The storekeeper grabbed for
his customer, who promptly smashed a
Plate class window and droppid from
the second story to the street. He was
pursued and captured.
Secret service agents found he had
removed ever)' mark from his clothing,
but his eyeglasses bore the mark of a
V" ' , I , n. ....... ...I..-- ... ..,
ien tn in. tn . u . 1 ,,.. c ... uic
l.n.e. wna meiisnreil i.twl the tlmtrew
wtn a mnm desrriptlon of the mount-
Inr. were telegraphed here . The rec
ords of the optical houso here made It
possible to trace Wilken to a small New-
Jersey town, From that point It was
easy to get his record, and the secret
service men "dug up" so much that
when confronted with It wilken saw
the Jig was up and confessed
AUSTRALIAN WOMEN
DOOM CONSCRIPTION
Feminine Votes Decide War
Issue for First Time, in
History of World.
HEBt'KE FOR MINISTERS
I I Siting from SO per cent, to ISO Der
.Premier Designates Re-te....ra
Hon as a "Childitih, Dra
matic Action
!.o.rON, Oct. 55
The early returns I
from Australia In Ihe balloting on the
question of compulsory military service,
according to neuter's Melbourne corre
spondent, showed a considerable major
ity oppo.ed to conscription. The Incom
plete vole was. "Yes." (!3T,00; "No,"
TIJ.OOO
Affirmative majoiltles were counted In
Vlciorla. West. Australia nnd Tasmania ;.
negative majorities In New South Wales
and Queensland. The attitude of South
Australia has not et been determined.
The three members of the Australian
Ministry "ho resigned their posts did
fo, according to a Ileuter despatch from
Melbourne to-day, because the remainder
of the Cabinet approved of regulations
empowering the presiding officers at
polling places during to-da's referen-
U!n on conscription to ask voters who
were apparently between II and 35
years of age whether they were single
AniS lf ,0 wl"I1er they nad reported In
'h I""1" l -
Ia. ( n..lno l.ak.ilaat. I
""""""v.t 'u,
urni u. inr r.Arcuinr .uuinvit. ..n .
..yta.
. Premier, in an Interview with lteuter's
V"'l',:..:...,...u.,
' corresponds nt at Sydney deslenated the I
: resignation of the three Ministers a a
I "childish, dramat.c action." j
Anpenlril tn Wmiirn.
Mr.Mtot'nyn. Australia, Oct 4 by I
- ' --J.: ' "V-T:ni.:7;.M .
" '
stipulated bv the Prime Minister. Will-,
lam M. Hughes, the fir: steps were
taken this week by the Hughes govern.
ment toward compulsory service. In
anticipation that dep:te strong trade
unionist oppoltlon tne reterennum on
cnnscrlntlon et for October IS would
be favorable to that policy, the Pepirt
ment of Pefcn.-e began calling up single
,nrn wllnoul dependents and widowers,
ithnt rhlldren for home defence, with
,he ui.miatr purpose of drafting them 1
ir,0 Australian overseas ranks and!
tupplementlngv o.umeer recruit ng.
nunlbeTs aad the arrangement made
The men calleii up responaen in lartsr
for their joining the colirs worked
qutr smootlily on the w noie. .ecoru-
ing to the war censu. the men cf the
two clase shove mentioneu nwur
tom 1S0.000.
First Time In llllor.
"iiUstinlH Is at war i war to the
t.ealh All that we hold dear '. at stake
nur enemy stands for military de.
;0!:m. staml as u trie aemcH-ra.y
vvhne Ideals r-t Ufn un.son and - 'shl -
nl"h,7lepjtlsmr'Olieor th" 'other mut
rn i-iiJer Which Is .t to be" That Is
the question men
tralla are to answer on Oc.o.k r -S.
the ntieslion which the people of Au-
i'a. th tt t.me In the history cf
large scale.: On Ortober I. In v.ew of the npproacn-, .Norway, ann .ier crew lanueu, ine
I t"-e world this lesue is submitted to ihe, Rerun (by w .relets). O t 15 "Com
, vo:e of a nation. For the first time paring the number of hostile and neutral
In ht"tcv the voice ox woman is io
foeak d.rectlv on the greatest question
. ... . .. .... ....... .. t
that can coniion, u .-wuu, ,j
mow nothing that can more sulking'v
eitltom.zc the fundamental distinction
ween the Ideal and method, of a free
-.ween the lilroU
democrnrv and thoe of despotism. ,
"The v'etv fact that the Australian I
-eoile are themselves to decide III what
'' ivli.l to what extent they shall'
continue this great struggle set out In
lette-s o' lire what Is at sialic 111 this .
letters of
war
"The responsibility of
Australia-- de.
ti...n rests upon
Australian women, .
Their cnurtgf and tnetr sp rit must re
r.'.v to th.' clarion call In this crisis
will be found woman's oijnr,tunlty"
NEW DIMES IN CIRCULATION.
1 Kit, mill Worth Distributed
llnnUa nnd Trnl Cnmpanlra.
Pint, vrnt-riiH. Oct 2 The new en
cent pieces, which have been coined In
la-ue quantities at the Philadelphia mint
were put Into circulation to-day when
alvut lo,O00 .worth was distributed to
banks and trust compan.es
The obverse sine oi ir..; new tinis
hows a head nf Liberty In profile, while
,L reverse side shows a bundle of rods
rn.,ni- rieaCe,
Th new rotns are expected to be In
general ' Ircu'atlon within a few days.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SECTIONS,
AS FOLLOWS':
rrei
Rcil
FIRST
SEC0SD
THIRD
FOURTH
FIFTH
SJXTH
Cenerzl
rUte
Sporting,
Newj.
14
Automobiles
Kenn!
Newi of Society,
Drams, Mutic, Fhion
Pictorial Msgxzins .
Soeciil Fezture Sectiot
Art . . . .
Editorial. Foreijn. Dooki.
Queriti, Pimncitl, Prob.
Umi, Car dent, Schools
Toul
58
RtaJtrt or muiJtalctt uho it not rt.
ttitt all tf thttt I'ttiont iclll (onftr a
jcttt tn" Tin Sun" by notlfylnt tht Pub
tuition Dtpartmtnt at omt by On phont
U2C0 Butman). and mtutnf icclfsai
uill tt promptly JoruardtJ I pontbU.
FRANCE TO FIX PRICES
OF BUTTER AND CHEESE
Chamber Also Adopts Bounty
to Wheat (5 rowers to Cheapen
Price of Bread.
Paris, Oct. JS. The French Senata
passed a measure last night authorizing
the Minister of tB Interior to fix tne
j limits of retail selling prices of butter
, cent., while the Itoquefort brand In some
cases has reached nearly 1,000 per cent.
I at wholesale. Swiss cheese selling In
Switzerland at a price equivalent to 2t
cents a pound has been selling In France
, for rents.
me Minister of the Interior Is now-
authorized by decree to fix the maxl
mum price t which these provisions
may l,e sold to the public and. If nec
eisary requisition them for distribution
by the Government.
The Chsmber of Deputies to-night
adopted a bill presented by the Govern
ment authorizing a bounty on wheat
harvested In France next year. The hill
provides for a bounty equivalent to IS
tttt n lillahnl rf atfMv whaat utirl fin
amendment was added providing for an
allowance of 10 francs for each addl
tlonnl hectare (about two and a half
acres) devoted to wheat growing.
The Chamber alo adopte.1 resolutions
In behalf of agricultural Improvement,
notably for the creation of experimental
fields In schools of sericulture and the
appointment of a commission whose
duty It will be to draw up a general
programme.
The Cabinet made tne proposal In or
der to encourage planting In France with
out raising the price of bread, as would
be the case If the farmer got his return
In higher selling prices. The price of
wheat has gone up because of the scar-
lly of farm labor, the large requlsl-
ton by the Government
creased' taxes on fertilizer.
Government and the In
.
OITTnO CITlTIr'.
r.l ITrl I rinirrl fill II IV
f WW1IU
FIVE FROM NORWAY :
Tw Fli t s i Oaf.. One Swcd-
. . ... .
TorjIClloed r OUr
.
LlVCS LOSt.
London, Oct. IS. The sinking of six
more steamships, one trawler and one
Mllns vessel. Is announced by Lloyd'
-e 01 nr eeis were .lorwegian, one
Swedish and one Hrltlsh.
The neutral vessels sunk were ihe
vnr,.,. .t-amers I.vsland. livedo.
. .
Pan and Pan. the Norwegian sailing ves -
el Kutbrir.ka and the S-vr.fsh steamer
jonKup-ng
The s.nklng nf the llrltish
steanur Sparta was attended with the
1 n'" ui mur mnnii.'rj m mr nt
The Hygdo was sjnk off Chrlstlania.
I Fushia has been sunk and. her crew im
prisoned .n Herniary.
The L stand was. of 1.107 tons and
I the Uygdo of 7In ton? The Pan meas
j tired 7?."t ton. and the S.vedish steamer
Jonkciili.g 1S7 ton
1 .
1.453 SHIPS SUNK BY GERMANS.
Nrulrnl VrsarU ( onslllutr Onljt IO
Per Crnl.. II la inl.l.
smi'- sui ; i.e re.i ....r.-. ... Uir v n
tral Powers,
"r... Arili. i- ti
says the l.oknlamelgr r.
lie ordii.g to ottlcial statistics, from the
, begjtmlng of the war until October 12.
1.113 hostile ships of I.lhS.iOl tons, were
i sunk, but only ion neutral ship., of ::..
r.: tons, w ere sunK for carr ing contra.
band of war The neutral t tmiage !
only 10 V'T cent, of the hostile tonnage
"The sinking of neutral ships ispe
dally Norwegian, will cease as soon as
the latter slop carrying contraband."
WEST POINTERS TO FINISH UP.
War Depart ment lirelilra .Not to
llnstrn Grniluntl.iii nf sieiilnr. i
Washington, Oa. H. Although tipr,. ..jieniv attacks continue "
progress In tilling the 1,500 va ancles In Another strong blow has l.en struck
tl " grade of Second Lieutenant In the en- at tne connecting link leovten the Rn.
larged regular army has lieen rather slan and Runiinian armies In the Car
slow, the War Pepirtment has decided pnthlans, the Ponui Watr.i posltlnn at
not to hasten the gra luatlon of the the northern Rumanian bonier Several
senior class at West Point. It had heights were taken fiom the Russians
be. n susgesled fat the class nf approx- by Austr'nn and Hungarian troop In
Imately 110 radcts complete It term bayonet charges, and tight nlllcers nntl
In Trtttirl- next ve:.r ln.te.1,1 nt .lime, tr.nre thntl TiOO metl tllkt'll. RtlSSla Mil-
li1tr Vnreful consideration the Pe.
,,,,,,., directed that the regular course
jl( .,ur!,yed.
s.nce ('niigre.s aiithbrlze.l the rec-
i ,on of ,e(.i,,i Lieutenants from civil life
after examination nearly 1.000 men have
been designated to appear befor ex -
amlnlr.g hmrds Nearly S00 of these
have been exanrned. about twodhlrds of
whom p.iKel Addltniul ex.imltntlons
will be held ,n Ni.veml-r and again In
January ami H.ll rth.rs as rapidly as
new el isses nf e-indldates are formed
new Masses nf e.niui.iaies are lormeq,
WHITMAN FORGETS HIS WATCH. '
I. elites It nt Spenkrr'a Table
and
Pfilleemnii llrenvera It,
Gov Whitman dleruvered that he has1
a nulled party behind him last night.
Ho found it out a the resiitl of leaving
hls'wat.ii on trc speakers', tible w hni
he departed from the Palace I'lihlnn at
llflth street ami Klghth avenue, wheie
he had delivered a speech that made Mm
fni net the tlmeple.e. lit fore teaching
the next stumping plate he dl-covered
th'it he earned tut means nf timing his
spee.ii.
Acrurilltiiily 1 e went Into the West
177th street police station and told the
lieutenant on duly that he had fiirgntleii
his wal.il The lieutenant telephoned tn
th" West 113d street station, ami Police,
man .Mulhtillatid was sent annual In gi t
II, havinu l.nii tub! that If he didn't
the Governor would be ..mvlmiil their
was a traitor In his p.uly.
Mullinlland found the watch carefully
Kuanled by President llutler of ('nlum-
bl.t I til r-i fitV, wiin hid I I In chaw
nf tint mii'tlng Th" pnlli'eiii.iii IihiIi I' e
timepiece to the Until St Iteai, wlnlit
the G'lVernttr Ih Hlajliig
ROMANIA HALTS
INVADERS' RUSH
ON WEST FRONT
Strikes Back Desperately
Along 400 Mile 3Ioun
tain Frontier.
ST0R3IS POSITIONS;
CAPTURES 1,800 MEJf
Counter Attacks Made in
Region of Passes Arc
Successful.
D0BRUD.TA ARMY
IN SORRY PLIGHT
Part of Army That Ust
Constanza and Cerna
voda Escapes.
Lo.NPON, Oct. CI. Heavy blows weres
struck at Rumania to-lay by thi Teu
ton armies. All along tho 400 mllo
mountain border there was desperato
fighting. At some points the Ru
manians yielded, but ht others they
struck back strongly, storming posi
tions nnd capturing all told more than
.$00 prisoners, three cannon, two
trench mortars, twenty-six m.ichlno
guns and much war material.
In the DobrutIJa tho Rumanian rout
has not leen stemmed. Uln-ova, on
the Danube, twenty-rtvc miles north of
iCernavoda, has been occupied by Ilul
'garlan cavalry. The retrc.itin(r Rus-
slans and Rumanian. nre offeriri'r but
little resistance, llerlln reports, and
. f.00 stragglers have been captured,
Munition columns nnd '..-
doned in the flight have l.oen taken.
The .3. of iSunao-llumanUn
army la compared" bv Herman mtllurv
1 writer tn tho rr.tri.ii ,f v
' Moscow except that It U not mMvvln.
.. t.. .. . .. V.
1 ter. The northern Pol t udj.i. thrmi h
wnicn
tile trtiiiiw ..re ilttiiic, i more
desolate even than the southern nor.
tlon. Iipoons. ninrs.hr. anil barren
steppe surround t'le fugltlv r
Part f Arni Kscnttrd.
wis made on pontoons, which would In.
dl.-ate that the eleven mile bridge was,
blown up before most of the troops
could es.iipe. ,
The Munition I'' Tian-.v lvi.nl i -.t gen
ernlly more favorable for the Hit
manian. though nt thr critical sectors
ot the Tr.insylviin.an Alp frontier, tho
four pa south of Knutstadt, Von
Falkenhayn s gun are glv ug hint sue-,es-
as d'd Von Maciti nvn's m the I'o
brudja The Teuton have I'.iptun'.l a
Rumanian position on a height by n
surprise attack and extended ttit Ir suc
cess to the Valley of P.irtzug.i, near
Slnala. Rucharcst, hivvever, says a
counter attack In the Prahnva Valley, In
the same region, utveei. d.
A Petrocrild ilespat. h tn Hie oilt;
. .. " ' a '
' '' '""'' 'Vtrzlttirl. ,
" J,'" .-'
Cliionirlr early to-day r.ibl that Von
mpoluiig, Iti-
nd twenty
miles within th" Rumanian border.
Klmpolung Is an ii'.portant iiiilhcid nnd
only eighty milts from Iliich.ireM
Itumniilnii Counter Attnek.
The llerlln otllci.il statement dors mil
cniifiim this, however, and the Ru
manians report to.iluy a successful
counter attack near PingtHnvcle, north
of Klmpolung. in which SCO men, two
trench mortars and three machine guns
were Liken. The Russian statement
RAM. thin "near Hran (Torzburei nnss
mits a withdrawal of advanced posts
there.
i The most successful of the Rumanian
counter attacks w.ih made In the. JIul
Valley, Just south of Vulcan Pass, In tho
Transylvania Alps, nere tne iiuiu.inian.
, are confronted by Ilav.irlan mountain,
eers, th" troops which raptmcd the Red
Tower Pass nnd won tho buttle of Her-
m.innstudt and only a few .lavs ago
stormed ulcau Pass. Th" Ruiniiii an
fell uimn the llavarlat,. hotly, beat hen,
nre f"ll'wing Up the advantage,
cnptuied 4 Ho uu'ii, sixteen iniiiiiliie
, guns and three minimi.
Teatmisj Are Tlir.tivn llaek,
III the Trntus Valley, where tile Teu
tons hail threatened the tallin.nl roininu
lilcatlniis nf Riissh)iis ami Riiiii.inliiiis at
the junction nf Teivu iicii.i. the Ruma
nian tetnuli lis.'ul and thiew back Iho
Teutons, here mostly Aiisiilan tionps, In
disorder. Tho Riiniitnuui siatemenl fol
lows :
Northern and nni IhwcMtern limits .
At TuIkIp'h and I Ilea thei" have Iveen
light aetlntlH itlnl arlllleiy botiih.iril.
ment., We look fniir nltli.is and 1U0
men.
We made an attack ill Urn Tinltis
Valley ami retook Pls.'lll. 'I lie enemy
lied In disorder
In Ih" l.'zul Valley we attacked and
repulsed lint em my, takini; leu nllleeis
ami !HiO men prlsuners. We almi cap.
tuietl five iiiii.iilmt guns, in.uiv illle
and a very laige ipianlllv nf material
At (HUM we leplllhed the enemy III
tlie llnt'il Vallev we m nle nn alta. k
The a.iiiiii l still III pingirNN At
Tab!" lliilr.l, llialii.'e.i and I'leiliiti
the sltuatlnii Ih iimiiaugeil A .'niitiler
attack iimleital.eii bv IN in llm Pia
lima Valle.v was Ml.'. i Shlul
III tint ickIiiii nf Pi,iutil.ivel.i wa
I
