mi mil n i in, 111 in, mi i .. \ ... - !
' ^
* ?
J A If ^ WEATHER.
.OOKFOKTHE^l ^liA ^1 tit d ^1 I 351^ * SCS .
flasF0cgtrionure UkIJv ^UllUvvJy g3Ks\,K+ ?
. f~~ " ~ FTY'TP PFVT^
'= ?TrT^^ WASHINGTON, D. C., SUNDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 29, 1916* ?__ ?
\o. 606?No. 29,486.
CABRERA AW
NEUTRALITY OF U. S.t
SCORING OFFICIALS
Says Mexican Bandits Opposing
Carranza Get Arms
Freely.
NEW COMPLICATIONS
NOW ARE THREATENED
Criticisms Not to Be Ignored by
State Department?May Nnllify
Border Commission's Work.
New complications with the Mexican
de facto government threatened last
night as a result of a statement issued
here through the Mexican information
bureau and attributed to Luig Ca
brera.
It assails in sharp language American
neutrality and the administration of
immigration laws as regards Mexico.
Mr. Cabrera is minister of finance in
Carranza's cabinet, and president of |
the Mexican 'commission now partici- ,
pating in the joint conference over
border difficulties at Atlantic City, and |
there are indications that his criticisms
will not be ignored at the State Depart- j
ment.
While refusing to enter into any discussion
of the statement at this time,
administration officials characterized it
as extraordinary. Secretary Lansing
would make no comment. It is known,
however, that steps to establish the
authenticity of the document were
? taken under consideration immediately.
Arredondo Not Consulted.
Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassador
designate, denied himself to all
callers. Although the Mexican information
bureau has been understood to
have at least semi-official relations
with the embassy, its status never has
been clearly defined. Embassy officials
asserted emphatically that Mr. Arredondo
had not been consulted before
the statement was issued and had no
knowledge that it was in contemplation.
his first knowledge of it coming
after the bureau had distributed it to
the newspapers.
Text of the Statement.
The statement, which bears the name
of the bureau and the word "official,"
in addition to the introduction attributing
it to Mr. Cabrera, is as follows:
"A broad interpretation of the f*d?
era! lav s of the XT- it d States dealing
with neutrality and regelating immigration.
with a st-ict. consistent and
efficien administration of these laws by
the executives to horn t cir a'mlnistration
is delegat d ould g a l">n?
wavg trward correcting the border isturbanc"8,
and allay mu h of the unrest
which at pres;nt pervades that
region.
"In the Unit'd States ar? many Mexicans
and groups of Me icans inimical
to the Carranza goverom nt. Plottings
and scremings without end are engaged
in. not alone by the extreme
conservatives, who are striving to
bring on intervention with the hope
that the constitutionalist government
shall be destroyed with the aid of
American armies, but also there are
groups of extremely radical malcontents.
whose hope is the destruction
of the Carranza government, in order
that license, banditry and rapine may
continue and multiply, until human
rights and property rights all are destroyed.
Bandits Obtain Anns.
9
"The conservatives, reactionaries,
are taking advantage of the situation
created by the ultra-radicals. The importation
of arms and munitions for
the use of Villa, Zapata and the other
bandits and brigands is conducted under
the very eyes of supine omcials
whose business it would be to hinder
their transmission across the border.
4The propaganda of revolt against
constituted order is being promoted by
scores of conspirators, known to both
rthe Mexican and the American officials,
who, by even the most strictly literal
interpretation of America's immigra
tion laws, should be deported from
the United States.
Could Enforce Laws.
"That the American government is
competent to restrict and restrain the
"exportation of arms and munitions is
probable by the fact that during the
early days of the Carranza revolt
against lue usurper nutria inese mwe
?were enforced with an almost cruel
rigidity against Carranza.
"That the law governing the conduct
of undesirable aliens can be enforced is
proved at Ellis Island and throughout
the United States every day in the
year.
"Activity, energy, vigilance and persistency
can correct the situation. Indifference,
carelessness and heedless
liberality can only make a bad case
worse."
It was said at the bureau that the
statement had been obtained from Mr.
Cabrera directly and was made public
with his approval.
Status Not Clearly Defined.
The question of the interest the State
Department may take in the statement
is somewhat involved. Mr. Cabrera's
status with relation to this government
\m not the same as that of an accredited
diplomatic or consular official. The fact
that the American-Mexican joint commission
was assembled at Gen. Carranza's
suggestion, all arrangements
i**i n nav injKj u?-?-h ma?? tri a rormai
way. will have weight with officials in
determining their course. Whether the
names of the commissioners nominated
by each government were submitted for
approval has never been divulged, but
if this was the procedure the commissioners
probably would have definite
diplomatic status on which action
could be based.
I D*spJ easing: to Officials.
The fact that investigation of the authenticity
of the statement was in contemplation
was taken to mean that its
publication is displeasing to administration
officials. A question to be determined
was whether the attention of th?
<le facto government should be formally
called to it as a violation of diplomatic
etiquette.
Among die theories advanced lasi
night in quarters familiar with Mexican
politics was that Mr. Cabrera intended
his criticisms for consumptior
in Mexico more than in the Unite|
States, and hoped they might placati
his chief and soften Carranxa's In
(Continued on Second Page.) .
"NEXT WAR? DO IT
NOW/4JRGES T. R.
Former President in Brooklyn
Speech Says Mr. Wilson
Condemns Himself.
UNPREPAREDNESS IS CITED
??
By the Associated Press.
NEW YORK, October 28.?Theodore
Roosevelt, in an address at the Brooklyn
Academy of Music tonight, declared
that if today is what "our democratic
friends" call "Wilson day" it should
be "appointed a day of fasting and
humiliation."
"For during the past three years," he
went on, "the people of the United
States have eaten the bitter bread oi
shame and trod the paths of dishonor
under the leadership of Mr. Wilson."
The colonel directed most of his attack
against the recent declaration of
Mr. Wilson that the present was the
last great world war that the United
States can keep out of.
"We have never had any candidate
for so high an office who was so utterly
indifferent to the reversal of all his
professed convictions or principles and,
above all, so indifferent to the flat contradiction
between his words and his
acts on almost every issue of real importance
before the people," he said.
Quotes President's Words.
After quoting the "President's words
in regard to this country and the next
war, Mr. Roosevelt said that "never
have we had a greater degree of insincerity
and hypocrisy than is contninAH
In bu/?>? a nl?a fnr ro.oloctinn
by the President, who has himself
practiced the coldest and most selfish
neutrality when all these things that
he in the abstract condemns were in
the concrete committed at the expense
of Belgians and the Armenians and
of the Syrian Christians."
Taking up the President's appeal for
support on the ground that he has
[ "kept us out of war," Mr. Roosevelt
declared that if it was just to keep out
of the present war, then it would be
just in the future to keep out of all
similar wars, and "if the President, on
the other hand, is right in saying that
we never shall keep out of any such
wars in the future, then he condemns
himself for keeping out of this war."
Charges Cowardice.
"You say, Mr. Wilson, that hereafter
America must* exert her whole force,
moral and physical, throughout the round
globe if the fundamental rights of humanity
are invaded," CoL Roosevelt said.
"Do you not know that it Is abject cowardice
to say that this must be done
hereafter, when you do not dare do it
now?
"If you mean what you aay tut to the
future, then you must mean precisely
?d exactly that this is your duty in the
ssent. Do it now, Mr. President. It 1s
sheer hypocrisy to chatter ten days before
election as to what ought to be done
in the future, when throughout your
whole term of office you have fai'ed in
the present to do what you now say is
yo?r d-ty.
"If the President's words can mean
anything" the colonel continued. ":?ud
never again are we to be neutral, then
he in inexcusable in having kept us so
sb?me#u'ly unnreoared."
The appearance of the submarines in
ovr own ha?? M* ' ?' ** clared,
showed that a sudden attack by
them might leave us without any navy
Deiure a aenarauon ui war was luauc,
and "remember that half the wars of
qtodern times have been begun prior
| to formal declarations of war."
"Spiritual Unpreparedness."
"Thanks to Mr. Wilson," he continued,
"our unpreparedness In naval and military
matters is appalling and our dereliction
in duty to humanity at large
shocking beyond description. But our
spiritual unpfreparedness. thanks to
Mr. Wilson, is even greater than our
physical unpreparedness. The tooproud-to-fight
doctrine is a cloak behind
which the coward hides. Jt haa
been the chief cause responsible for the
spread of the spirit of disloyalty in
the United Statefc among those whc
i openly or secretly believed in a di-?'d*c]
citizenship. No man will be permanently
loyal to a country that is toe
proud to fight.
"The fundamental difficulty with Mr.
Wilson's policy has been his lack ol
moral courage," he said. "He has delayed
and postponed. He has never met
a single question man fashion. He never
met any question in a spirit that carries
instant conviction that the questior
would be dealt with firmly and courageously.
If at the beginning of his dealings
- wttn .Mexico ne naa snown sucn a spim
S Mexico would have been spared the
i frightful devastation that has followed
and we would have been spared the sharm
and humiliation of having our citizens
outraged, our towns sacked and our soldiers
killed."
Mexicans at Meeting.
The Mexican members of the Mexi
| can-American joint commission?Luis
j Cabrera, Alberto J. Pani and Ignach
i Bor;ilIas?accompanied by their wive:
1 and Dr. John R. Mott, one of the Amer
ican commissioners, occupied a box a
j the meeting tonight.
Col. Roosevelt dwelt at considerable
length on the administration's Mexicai
J policy, and declared that it would bav<
! been infinitely better to have kept Gen
| Pershing and the American troops ou
of Mexico than to have "put them in,1
j in the manner in which the administra
-? tion did.
President Wilson, the former Presi
dent asserted, should have said afte
the troops once were in Mexico: "Mi
Carranza. you say we cannot use th
railroads. Well, guess again."
The Mexican commissioners appar
ently were only interested in hearim
, Col. Roosevelt express his opinion o
the Mexican situation, for they neithe
; applauded nor made any comment
when the former President had finishe
they left the hall, without remaintn
to meet him, and entered a waitin
I auto for New York.
Colonellnterrupted.
fj Col. Roosevelt was interrupted fr
i , quently, but by friendly and approvin
! cries from his hearers. After he ha
I I Ull-intu * ICDlUl'Ill TY JIOvll O \y>uviiiii?<
speech, referring: particularly to th
President's assertion 'that the TJnite
.States could not keep out of the nex
j world war, some one said:
1 "Hughes will take care of the fu
j ture.
! "That's right," replied the colone
: "and we'll know that any word Mi
Hughes utters he'll make good."
"If he doesn't," called oack anothe
in the audience, "we'll return you." *
I The former President smiled and sai<
! "1 am supporting Mr. Hughes."
Referring to President Wilson, Co
Roosevelt said: "You can respect
captain who nails the flag to his mat
and goes ahead, but not one who nail
the flag to another fellow's mast an
goes ashore."
?
USING WORLD CRISIS
IN FIGHT FOR POWER,
MR. WON AVERS
President Attacks Patriotism
of Those Who Would Thus
*
seine Differences.
I
CLAIMS OPPOSITION IS
"SCRUPLING AT NOTHING"
Says Critics of His Foreign Policies
Want a Peace "Obtained Only
as Braggarts Obtain It.''
By the Associated Press.
LONG BRANCH. X. J.. October 28 ?
That the opposition to his election is
1 "scrupling at nothing'," in statement of
fact and policy, was the charge made
by President Wilson in a speech at
, Shadow Lawn this afternoon to a
, throng that assembled for a joint celebration
of "New Year day" and "Wood'
row Wilson day."
"What are we to say," he asked, "of
the patriotism of men who take advantage
of a crisis of the world, when the
fortunes of men hang in uncertain balance,
when the peace of this great nation
can be maintained only by the
most thoughtful and considerate
means, to settle a question of power
among themselves?"
Speaks of "Vocal Element."
Renewing his discussion .of the foreign
policies of the United States, and
speaking of the "vocal element" of the
republican party, the President declared:
"They prefer a peace that is
produced by the methods of those who
defy, of those who brag, of those who
threaten in order to establish their
prowess. They have forgotten their
manners. They want a peace, indeed,
but they do not want a peace obtained
as gentlemen obtain it, but only as
braggarts obtain It."
In the course of his address, the
President reviewed in detail the record
of the democratic party toward
public questions, declared that most of
the issues of the campaign proposed at
the outset by the republicans have disappeared;
upheld the eight-hour day
for "everybody for whom it is possible,"
spoke of the "interesting gyrations"
of the republicans toward the
tariff, and replied to assertions of his
opponent as to what whl happen after
.he war.
Refers to New YorkCampaigm.
Direct reference to the New York
campaign was made by Mr. Wilson for ,
the flije] time. He mentioned Samuel !
Seabu^y, candidate for governor, and
urged that a democratic governor and
United States senator should be elected.
The President did not read a sp?rch
prepared by him in advance. Although
he used s^me of the thoughts container
in the orepa ed sp ech, he derart
d entirely f o:n the wor s and injected
many newid^as. The p-e ared
speech was to be read at meetings arranged
in many cities* and tov.ns in
celebration of "Wilson day."
;' Headed by bands, an-* ear-ying Hags
and banners bearing inscriptions * raising
the President, the 1-rgest crowd
that has assembled h-re for any of Mr.
Wilson's speech s came on special
trains and cneci a mne ana a- nau ;
to Shadow La * n. The delegations included
one composed of Tammany d mocrats,
led hy John K. Voorhis. grand
sachem. In an introductory speech. Mr. j
i Voorhis spoke of Tammany, and de.
clare-d he hoped to be able to march in
Mr. Wilson's inaugural parade.
President's Speech.
"The campaign that we are now en- {
gaged in has reached a point of cul- i
| mlnation where perhaps It is possible j
, and permissible to view the field and j
? characterize the results," said Presi- i
' dent Wilson. "The field has been a j
, very confused one, because the forcesi
of the opposition are confused. ^
; "Looking on the field as a whole, you
can see that all that has been disclosed j
on the side of the opposition is con- 1
fusion and futility. It is not singular
that it should be so, because they serve
i under no single captain. They are mov- !
ing in no single direction, they have no
i single body of principles, they have no
single purpose in mind. It has been
s impossible to conduct the campaign as
I if it were a regular battle, because so
soon as we sought some section of the
? enemy it was found that they had dispersed.
"Issues Have Disappeared."
"It has been a confusing campaign,
because the public mind has never been
permitted to center upon ang single issue
that they cared to stand for. Most
j of the issues proposed at the outset
| have so utterly disappeared that it is
doubtful if they ever existed, and that
because of an inevitable division of
x counsels.
3 "They possess no stamp of definite
policy. They suggest no line or aenh
nite action. On the one hand, the vocal
- element says that we have accomplished
the purpose that they did have in
~ mind: that they desire peace, but they
? ! do not like the way in which peace was
e! accomplished. They prefer a peace that
! is produced by the methods of those
?i who defy, of those who brag, of those
g who threaten. In order to establish
n their prowess, they have forgotten
r their manners. They want a peace, int.
deed, but they do not want a peace obd
tained as gentlemen obtain it, but only
g as braggarts obtain it.
<4Will Deserve Bespect."
"We have peace. We have a peace
founded upon the definite understand!"
lug that the United States, because it is
e powerful, is self-possessed; because it
d has definite objects, does not need to
ti make a nofse about them; because it
e knows that it can vindicate Its right at
d any time, does not have to proclaim its
:ti right in terms of violent exaggeration.
We have determined, whether we get
the respect of the rest of the world or
not, that we will deserve it by the way
? in which we act.
J* "On the other hand, we are told that
the methods of peace are the methods
P of elocution and the methods of phrase
are the methods of manner; that all
3, that is needed is a certain attitude, a
certain personality, a certain impres1.
sive manner in dealing with the nations
a of the world.
it "You know that there used to be an
is ancient art in politics, which seems to
d have been revived?the art of talking
without saying anything?and the people
.
!
/
v r
?
of the United States, my friends, are
very tired of that. They look, and they
are looking with more and more admiation
and confidence, upon this contrasted
picture:
"Seeking Any Sort of Support."
"On the one hand, a body of men casting
about for an issue; a body of men
casting about for some means to throw
those out of power who are now in power,
seeking any sort of support, scrupling
at nothing in the way of their statement
of facts and of policy, grasping afanything
in order to make' an Impression,
whe.her it be a false Impression or a
true impression.
"They see that this is nothing but a
picture of forces that cannot unite of
forces that do not constitute a party, and
the intimation that I just now referred
to is this, that those who are doing the
thinking, the defin.'te thinking for <he
opposition, are desiring to destroy the
republican party as it was in 10.12 in order
that they may make It what they
then failed to make it by organizing
their opposition against It.
"Takes Advantage of Crisis."
"Think of it. my friends. In order to
reunite the republican party by giving
dominance to that section of it which
has been rejected by that party itself, a
time of world crisis, is to be used, in
which it is absolutely necessary that the
counsels of this nation should be united
and unmistakable. What are we to say
of the patriotism of men who take advantage
of a crisis of the world, when
the fortunes of men hang in uncertain
balance, when the peace of this great
nation can be maintained only by the
most thoughtful and considerate means
in order to settle a question of power
among themselves. The thing is incredj
ible. The thing Is not to be endured by
j men who love America, and more and
I more the attention of this country is
j being concentrated upon the democratic
party and the thoughtful men who are
now allying themselves with the democratic
party."
Outlines Democratic Policy.
I The President then outlined what he
characterized as the definite policy of the
| democrats.
I "The only thing that those of us have
j done who have tried to lead," he conj
tinued, "has been to purge our hearts
and understand what we heard, beI
cause, my friends, a man who tries to
j serve a free nation must try to have in
i his own heart the thoughts of a free
I nation. He must see to it that he. so
j far as his intelligence permits, thinks
j the same thoughts that the man on the
I street thinks, agd the man in the fftci
torv and the man down in the mine,
t and the man running the trains,
j "If he believes that men ought to
' work only eight hours, he is expected
, to say so, and if he is asked whether
i he means everybody, he ought to an-j
; swcr. 'Yes, everybody for whom it is
i possible.' There are some occupations
j in which you cannot divide the day up
j into eight-hour periods, for the simple
! reason that you have got to do what
i nature determines. I do not see how,
i for example, a farmer could divide the
(day up into periods of eight hours, bei
cause nature does not divide it up into
j periods of eight hours, but in most oei
cupations where the seasons do not
I dominate, where the plans of men domiI
nate. it is possible to have eight hours,
j and, moreover, eight hours are more
j profitable to vthe men who manage the
capital of the country than the longer
| day. ^
i
Attitude Regarding- Tariff.
"Have you noticed the interesting gyrations
of the opposition with regard
to the protective tariff? It is very interesting
how they haVe disclosed their
real mind about it. You know, for a
I long time they said this ought not to
be a matter of partisan politics. It
{ought to be treated with absolute impartiality.
We ought to have a tariff
j commission to put this upon a scienj
tific instead of a political footing. Very
j well. We gave them the tariff com;
mission. It is going to be put upon a
, scientific footing, and so far as I am
concerned democratic theories are going
to have no more to do with the
facts than republican theories. The
tariff Is going to bo handled, if I can
find the right men to handle it, so that
nobody's opinion is paid any regard to,
and the facts, and the facts alone, are
i disclosed.
' Cannot TJTait foflt."
"But that does not satisfy them. Now
that they know they are going to have
s. commission they are uneasy because
they are not going to appoint it And
not only^hat, but they say we, cannot
watt for it We have got to have pro
| tec"?" qn old lines ana ?n u?e oia
(.Continued on Eleventh Page.)
^ ^ ^ :
I-412-. - _ *X . . ' . ''r - " ,X_- :
7*
Mr. Sato First Envoy
to Present Credentials
Ontside of Washington
Aimaro Sato, the new Japanese
ambassador, left here tonight for
New York, accompanied by the
whole embassy staff, to present
his credentials to President Wilson
at Shadow Lawo tomorrow.
This Is- one of the first cases on
record in which a foreign diplomat
has presented his credentials
outside of Washington.
1 i
GKEISlW
ON "BOSTMIPtfl
Varying Views Given of Tarnj
many Chief's Interest in the
National Election.
N. Y. CAMPAIGN LIVELY
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
TNEW YORK. October 28.?Conflicting
reports are current about the earnest
ness of the participation of Boss Mur
phy of Tammany Hall In the presiden
tiakcampaign in this state. A mem be
of the democratic national committei
tells The Star's correspondent that Mr
Murphy personally assures him that hi
would deliver to President Wilson ever:
. democratic vote within the control o
i Tammany Hall. A member of Tarn
! many Hall to the contrary tells me tha
i Mr. Murphy is not interested in the sue
I cess of President Wilson, but is looking
i forward to the mayoralty election nex
j year, which is of more importance t<
j him. and that he is playing for his owi
hand to prevent a fusion ticket being
I put up.
! In the absence of exact informatioi
j as to the workings of Mr. Mu^phy'i
I mind, which, in fact, he is famous fo:
keeping to himself, the two reports wil
be noted as items of current news an'
the solution of the problem if v/hethe:
he is or is not faithful to the Presiden
will be left until election night, whei
j the returns will tell the tale.
j Republican Courage Revives.
j Republican courage was stronger to
] day than when la-st I wrote. Absolut*
j confidence in a republican victory wai
I expressed all down the line. It wai
based on reports from New England
New Tork and New Jersey. It was sail
that Indiana is still holding fast ant
that Ohio Is picking up. although th<
republican outlook in the latter stat<
i is still acknowledged to be precarious
1 Pacific coast news was classed by thi
: republicans as gopd and conditions ii
'the northwest were said to be favors.
ble. But the main thing from the re
! publican viewpoint was that New Yorl
' and New Jersey are "holding up" am
i upon this they are staking their entiri
'political fortune.
i It is a significant fact that in the im
1 portant states of New York and nil
nols the republicans have abandonee
their claims of excessive pluralities am
are coming down to smaller figures
When I was here five weeks ago thi
republicans were claiming this state bt
150.000; now they are talking 50,000 ii
Illinois about that time, or a littli
earlier, they were boasting of 300,000
when I left Chicago a few days ago th<
figures had receded to half a hundrei
thousand and glad to "get by" at that
The republicans concede that Presl
dent Wilson will receive a smashlnt
popular vote, but they insist that i
will not be sufficient to carry the state
having the important representation ii
the electoral college, hence Mr. Hughei
. will win.
xtm, Vai.1t To SRionn fiontan ft
New York state Is now the storm cen
ter of. polities. Both parties will <Je
? ^^*^>* <
vote their efforts this week to swing:
the state. Col. Roosevelt will put in his
best licks for Mr. Hughes, and the democrats
will deluge the state*with a
flood of oratory from their best spellbinders.
The republicans to my certain knowledge
are up and doing in the stater and
this week will make an old-fashioned
camapign. Thoroughly concerned by
the big Wilson drift of the past fortnight,
every county and district leader
has been aroused to actviity. Plans
are being carried out?plans of a prgc*
tical character?-which in times past
have produced good results and are
riotr depended upon to work out according
to form.
Democrats Still Hopeful.
Democratic managers are still in hope
of carrying the state, but the republicans
are confident. The fact is that
neither side has any exact information
about the condition of public sentiI
ment, on account of the great "silent
I vote." as it is popularly termed, and
f the independents. Both sides are afraid
of the coming wc-k fraught wi h possibilities
of something happening to
switcn tne result. rne leaders are
aware of the feverish condition of the
public mind and of the psychological
elements entering into the campaign.
The democrats are depending upon
the sentimental and psychological, the
republicans depending upon what they
I call the solid judgment of the people.
i FRENCH MAY LESSEN GR!P
UPON GRECIAN AFFAIRS
r
ATHENS, Friday. October 27. via London,
October 28, 5:43 p.m.?King Constantino
had a lengthy audience today
with the Russian and British ministers,
r An entente diplomat informs the Asso
elated Press that a completed upder
standing which "should arrange things
- much more satisfactorily for the king,
r Venizelos and ourselves," has been
e reached with the Greek sovereign.
"It is understood that as the Greek
e government continues to demonstrate Its
willingness and ability to maintain order
* in Athens, the French landing force will
t be withdrawn gradually and the French
- control of the police, telephones and telet
graph and railways also will be loosened."
r RUSSIANS AfcE REPULSED;
SUFFER HEAVY LOSSES
i ?
1 LONDON, October 28 ?An isolated Russian
attack south of Zaturze has been
1 repulsed with great enemy losses, ac3
cording to Vienna.
\ In Volhynia, west of Lutsk, the Aus}
tro-Germans repulsed a Russian attack
1 I with heavy losses to the attackers.
j Otherwise there has been little activity
J on the Russian front.
DEUTSCHLAND DUE AGAIN.
- Reported in Norfolk and Baltimore,
3 She May Arrive Very Soon.
3 NORFOLK, Va., October 28.?The
German undersea merchantman Deuts1
chland according: to reports in circula1
tion in Norfolk and Baltimore yester?
day and last night, is due soon at the
i Virginia capes en route to Baltimore. It
is declared she sailed from Bremen two
5 weeks ago and successfully eluded all
. British patrol boats, safely reaching
- the broad Atlantic ocean.
j Last nig^t there was a report afloat
? that the Deutschland passed in the
capes shortly after nightfall and pro
ceeded up the bay, but this rumor ab- I
solutely lacked verification. Last night
1 each channel of approach to the capes
1 was closely watched.
I VAST CREDIT IS VOTED.
1 ??
5 ?. 1 fl * ?. 1-_X_ A_ 1 A A -
; A&dicai Buciausis uaiy unes uppog- i
i ing Hew Gernjan War Loan.
BERLIN". October 28, by wireless to
I Sayville, N. T.?The reic-hstag today, |
t after a short discussion, passed the bill
8 for a new war credit of 12,000,000,000
' marks asked for yesterday by Count
von Roedern, the Imperial treasurer.
The only votes in opposition were
those of the radical wing of the socialist
party. The members cheered
- enthusiastically when the vote was an
nounced.
FAVORITISM ENDED,
SAYD.CJMOCRATS
Development of Capital Held
Credit to Administration,
at Wilson Day Meeting.
ENTHUSIASTIC GATHERING
The Democratic administration has
"abolished favoritism in the District
building and in the police department"
and has brought about uniform development
in the National Capital,
Charles W. Darr, president Of the Wilson
and Marshall Democratic Association,
to! I the thousands of democrats
who attended the mass meeting at Convention
Hall last night, in celebration
of "Wilson day."
The achievements of President Wilson
and the democratic Congress were
lauded by Hugh Gordon Miller of New
York, formerly a leading "bull moose,"
but now working for Mr. Wilson's reelection,
and by Assistant Attorney General
Thompson. It remained for Mr.
Darr to deal particularly with benefits
derived by the District of Columbia under
the democratic administration.
It was an enthusiastic audience that
gathered to hear the democratic spe kers.
Loud applause greeted every
mention of President Wilso *s n me
and every mention of the "eight-hour
law," and when "he kept us oui of
v\ar" fell from the lips of the spealers
pandemonium broke loose;
Organizations Send Delegations.
All of the democratic organizations of
the city were represented at the meeting,
which w: s held under the auspices
of the Wilson and Marshall Democratic
Association of the District. The WilTT?.._
T . I _
ou 11 uigiii-nuur ucasuc was preaciu in
force. The Woman's Wilson Union,
the National Democratic Wcmen of
America ~and the W lson clubs in
Georgetown and George Washi. gton
Universities were represented by 1 rge
delegations. From Ma: ylmd and Virginia
came other deleg.it.ons of democrats.,
On the p'atform were seated
many of the leadi g democrats of tne
District and prominent government officials.
just before "Mr. Miller began his
speech, "Miss Democracy." riding the
democratic donkey, rode into the hall
leading a real honest to goodness elephant,
on whose back was inscribed
"G. O. P." Miss Democracy, who had
shoulders as broad as piano movers, rode
around the entire hall, preceded by a
sign bearing the legend, "Taking the G.
O. P. into Camp," amid loud cheers.
"A signal feature of the democratic
administration of the District," sa d
Mr. Darr, "has been the more equiti b e
distribution of public and civic im
provements, so that advantages o c^
too much confined to a ce.tain e tion
of the city have now been spread all
over the District.
"The fine residential sections have
not been neglected, northwest Wash_J
ingtoii has not" "suffered, but, at the
same time, improvements have gone
on in *other sections of the city at a
rate never before dreamed of. The
suburb of Anacostia has been actually
made over by the advent of smooth
paving, the underground wiring system.
the modern electric lighting system
and other improvements that have
actually transformed the whole character
of the community."
Points to Improvements.
Mr. Darr pointed to the installation
of new lights on Pennsylvania avenue
southeast, the paving of 7th street
with asphalt instead of granite blocks,
I the improvements in Anacostia and the
new schoolhouse at Park View and
the civic celebrations in honor of these
improvements.
"No administration lias ever done so
much for the public school system as
has the present administration." said
Mr. Darr. He spoke of the new Central
High School building, the new Dunbar
High School and the new Eastern High
School.
"The District Commissioners in this
administration," he continued, "have
taken counsel with the people of the
District to a degree never before
known.
j "The most signal accomplishment of
the present administration, perhaps,
i although it may not be generally ap|
predated because such reforms arc
j worked out without the aid of a herald
! or a trumpet, is the abolition of favoritism
in the District building and in
the police department."
Increase In Appropriations.
The appropriations made by Congress
for the District, Mr. Darr said,
have averaged more than a million
dollars a year greater than during the
preceding four years of republican
rule. Taxation, he said, has kept pace
only with the increase in values. The
last appropriation law enacted by Congress
for the District, be said, carried
over $2,000 000 more than any republican
Congress ever annnopriated.
"There has been complaint concerning
' the adoption of the Borland amend|
ment," s id Mr. Darr, "assessing half
j of the cost of paving roadways up to
! forty feet in width against the abutting
! property owners. I have no quarrel
with those who object to this law and
, who believe that it is better ia principle
! that all payments for roadway pavement
be made out of the general tax
| fund. However, it is manifestly unfair .
j to accuse Congress of having done |
something to the District in this re
j spect that would not be tolerated by !
people in communities where there is
self-erovernment. The facts are that
j there Is but one important city in the
! United States where some part of the
i roadway paving is not assessed against
the abutting property owners, and in
, the majority of cities the whole cost
of such improvements is assessed directly
against the abutting property
owners. The enactment of the Borland
law was not a partisan me- sure, but
was put through by both democrats
and republicans. And. however much
we may regret it. it cannot be denied
that it conforms to the general practice
i in other American cities.
! Intangible Personalty Tax.
1 "The same thing is true of the in- '
I tangible personalty tax imposed by the
[ last Congress, but not yet In effect.
The initiative in the intangible tax
[agitation was taken by Senator Sterling
of South Dakota, a republican, and the ,
proposition was accepted by both parties
in Congress.
"All during the present administration
there .has been a great deal of agitation
concerning the fiscal relations between
the District of Columbia and the United
States?the so-called half-and-half flght.
The House, by a mixed party vote, has
time and again voted to ab' lish the halfand-half
plan, and each time by a bi- :
partisan vote the effort has been defeat- i
ed in the Sdtaate. As a matter of fact,
the agitation is much ado about nothing.
for. after all. Congress appropriates 1
what it pleases for the services of tne i
District, and in the last appropriation
act, which was the largest ever known,
(Continued on Eleventh Page.)
?
RUMANIANS HALT
INVADERS ALONG
TRANSYLVANIA LINE
Repulse Several Attacks, Cap'
turing 1,800 Prisoners at
Various Points.
PISCUL IS RECAPTURED:
GAINS MADE IN VALLEYS
Field Marshal Von Hackensen Continues
His Successful Drive
in the Dobrudja.
By the Associated Press.
LONDON, October 29.?Austro-Ger mail
forces attempting to advance into llumania
along the Transylvanian frontier
are meeting with stubborn opposition.
Rumanian troops, taking the offensive at
several points ou the long front, have
repulsed the invaders and have taken
more than 1.800 prisoners, Bucharest announces.
On the Moldavian section of the frontier
the Rumanians recaptured Pisoul,
in the Trotus valley, and at Tulghes and
Bicaz and in the Uzul valley took 1,100
men. The attack in the Uzul valley also
resulted in the repulse of Gen. von i'alkenhayn's
men' and the capture of five
machine guns and war material.
Germans meet Repulse.
North of Campulung. Bucharest says,
a counter attack in the region of Dragyslavle
netted 300 prisoners, the enemy
being: repulsed. Farther west, in Wal'achia,
in the Jiul valley, the Rumanian
offensive continues successfully with the
capture of 450 prisoners and 16 machine
guns. Berlin announces the taking of a
height south of Kronstadt. and declares
that "otherwise the situation is not essentially
changed."
The retreat of the Russo-Kunianian
forces in Dobrudja continues, and Berlin
records that Field Marshal von
Mackensen is meeting with little opposition.
Five hundred more pri oners
have been taken by the Teutonic al'ie?.
as well as several munition columns
and bagjage trains.
In the region of Dorna Watra, whera
Bukowina. Transylvania and Rumania
come together, several heights have
been occupied by Austrian troops, they
penetrating enemy positions to a
depth of two and one-half mile?. P^trograd
says the Russo-Rumanian
troops were forced to fall back in tha
region, abandoning two heights.
Rumanian Official Report,
- The Rumanian official statement
etys:
"Northern and northwestern fronts?
At Tulghes and Bicaz there have
light actions and artillery bombardments.
We took four officers an l 109
men. We made an attack in the Tiotus
valley and retook Pisoul. The ?neray
fled in disorder.
"Jtn the Usui valley we attacked and
repulsed the $nemy. takinr ID officers
and 900 men prisoners. We also captured
five machine runs, many rifl-?s
and a very large quantity of material.
"At Oituz we repulsed the enemy. j
"There is nothing new in the Vrancoa
region.
Fighting1 in Buzeu Valley.
"In the Buzeu valley wc made an attack.
The action is still in progress.
"At Table Bulzi, Bratacea and Predelus
the situation is unchanged.
"A counter attack undertaken by us
in the Prahova valley was successful.
"In the region of Pragoslavele.
northeast of C&mpulng. we counter attacked
and repulsed the enemy's right
wing and took 300 prisoners. Jive machine
guns and two trench mortars.
"E;fst of the Alt the enemy's attack3
were repulsed.
"In the Jiul valley the enemy, who
had advanced to the west of the Jiul,
was vigorously attacked and completely
vanquished. Our offensive continues
and we have counted up t<> the present
450 Bavarian prisoners. We captured
sixteen machine guns, with their teams,
and three guns. The enemy left 1,000
dead on the battlefield.
"At Orsova the situation is unchanged,
as Is also the case on the
Danube and in Dobrudja."
Austrian Communication.
The official statement from Austrian
general headquarters., ijsued today,
reads:
"Eastern theater: Front of Archduke
Charles Francis?The fighting south of
Szuruuk and Rothenthurm pass continues.
Southeast of I'redeal the Austro-Hungarian
and German troops
dyove the enemy from si strongly fortified
height in the Faraszuga (Partxuga)
valley.
"At the Hungarian eastern front Ru
manian counter attacks were repulsed.
East of Dorna Watra we penetrated
enemy positions on a front cf four kilometers
(two and one-kali miles), capturing
S officers, 514 men and macbino
guns. The enemy attempts to recapture
che heights failed.'
Victory Due to Artillery.
BERLIN, October 28.?Advice3 from
Dobrudja indicate that parts of the
Russo-Rumanian army succeeded in
crossing the Danube at Tchernavoda ou
pontoons, saving some of their material.
Field Marshal von Mackensen's swift /
victory was due largely to the overwhelming
power of the German heavyartillery?the
field marshal, it is said,
having been able to concentrate a great
mass of guns w.thout attracting his
opponents' attention, and to the spirit
of von Mackensen's troops, who, once
the key positions had been stormed,
drove liome the pursuit with determination
and energy.
The favorable news from the Rumanian
fronts has enabled the Germans
to receive the news from Verdun with
equanimity.
Five more hostile aeroplanes have
been brought down by German airmen.
It was announced today.
Cerbs Ssize Trenches
at Bend of the Cerna; \
British Check Bulgars
CAT AMTV r fVtnhpr SurhiJUl trnnr.a '_ji
yesterday made an advance at the bend 1
at the Cerna river, in Serbian Macedonia, I
says a Serbian official announcement is- , I
sued here today. Thursday several Bui- ? 'M
fariao- trenches were captured by the I
Serbians. The statement reads: I
"October 26 during local skirmishes ' I
which were favorable (or our troops we j
.Jfl
