? ? 1 Tjrr
Society Doings
See Miss Witt's Newsy and Ac
curate Reports in The T.-D.
Siclpttoni ffimes-flisnald)
Service for You
Let I'D iinformation Bureau
Answer Your Questions
&
06th YEAR
VOM JIE iJO
\(-.vm:ii :u?:i
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1916. ?FIFTY-FOUR PAGES.
K;Xr,'ftt ?CLEAR
PRICE, FIVE CENTS
Without Scruples in State
ment of Fact and Policy
During Campaign.
THEY WANT PEACE ONLY
AS BRAGGARTS OBTAIN IT
Declares Most of Issues Proposed
at Outset by Republicans
Have Disappeared.
Kft\-|i:\VS OKMOCllATIC III* OKI)
l>?es Selection of Demotrutir tiov
ernor and I", s. Senator
in ?\v Vork.
' fl" Asnnrlnted I re.??
:.ON*rr JsrtA.VCII, N\ J.. Oetobe, ?$._
' n,at tho opposition to hi?! election is
sc.upllng :it nothing' In statement of
fact and pollcj. was the charge made
'?>' President Wilson In a speech at
Miario a I,a? n thin afternoon to a.
throng that assembled'for a joint
liratlori of "Now Vork I>ay" and "Wood
tow Wilson I'ay."
"What ar?> wo to say. ho asked, "of
be patriotiurn of turn wjio take ad
vantage of a crisis of the world, when
'he fortunes of men hang in uncer
tain balance, who,, the peace of this
croat nation can ho maintained only bv
the most thoughtful and considerate
n eans. to settle a question of pow? :
among themselves?''
flenewlng hi* discussion <.f t!ie for
2,1 Policies of tlie L'nited State-.-, and
r>e.<ktng o: the "vocal element" of the
Pepublleai, party, the President de
clared :
"They pr.-for a pea'-e tha: Is pro.
dueed hy the methods of those who
defy, of those w hv brag. of those who
threaten in order ;r. ertablish th-'r
prowess. They have forgotten th,.ir
manners-. They want a peace indeed.
:<:it they do not want a peace obtained ;
gentlemen obtain it. hut only as
'?> aggarts obtain it."
iti:\ ii:\\ v n in: r.\ 11.
i)i:>io? it \n, uixoim
' Tl'" c-jurse of his address the
?" M-n: reviewed In detail the record
U! the Democratic party toward public
ur?, declared tha* most of the
issues of the campaign proposed at the
outlet by the UcpubLcans have disap
peared; Uphold the eight-hour day for
everybody for whom It i:< possible"
poke of the "Interesting gyrations"
ti,c Republicans toward tlie tariff
I'd replied to assertions of his oppo
nent as to ? h,a will h.'ippo,, after the
\ j r.
Direct reference t.> the \>w Vork
ampaign watj made by Mr. Wilson for'
?he itrsi time. Ho mentioned Samuel)
in; y. caMiiil.ifor governor, and i
urged that a Ix-moiraii- Covcrm.r ami
;."it"d States S.-nar. should be elected !
The President did not read a speech
prepared by him in advance. Although ;
t- Used fome of the thoughts con-I
tain?-d in the prepared speech, he'de
parted entirely from the words and
injected many new ideas. The pre-'
pared jpeecl, was to be read at meet- J
ngs arranged in many cities and'
towns In celebration of "Wilson l.'ay." i
Headed by bands and carrying Hags I
? id banners, the largest crowd that '
has assembled here for any of Mr. Wil-i
son's speeches eamo on special trains '
and marched a mile and a half to1
.-hadow Lawn. The delegations i?. j
eluded one composed of Tammany Hem- '
ociat.s. led by John It. Voorhies. grand
sachem. In an introductory speech
Mr. Voorhies spoke of Tammany, and ?
declared he hoped to be able to march
n Mr. Wilson's inaugural parade.
iMi.ssim.i-: to vii:\\ kii:i.i>
ami ciiAiur rKiii/i: m-:si/i/i*
President Wilson's speech as de
tvered, in part, follows:
"The campaign that we are now en
gaged in has reached a point of cul-'
mlnatlon where perhaps it is possible
:o view the liebl and characterize the
."CMilts. Looking at the Jleld as a
whole, you can see that all that has
>cen disclosed on the side of the op
position is confusion and futility, it
in not singular that it should be so '
because they serve under r.o single cap
tain: they are moving in no single;
direction; they have no single body of
principles; they have 110 single pur- :
pose in mind.
So far as we can discriminate ele- 1
ments in the opposition, there are only :
two main elements. Perhaps I may call '
them the vocal and equivocal. The vo
?al clement utters very distinct and!
emphatic sentiments; it professes very i
tie tin i t e purposes: but so soon as you
question Its authority you find that It
speaks for nobody l>ui itself.
"Their parley is a parley for pop
session, not a parley for terms. Their
parley is of those who. though they i
profess to be outside, desire to be in- i
-ide, but for the time being they are \
outside and s:peak for nobody but :
t heotJiclves.
???n the other hand there is tlm '
equivocal element that has to speak
tor everybody at once and dares not ;
-peak for anybody In particular. They 1
must speak in equivocal terms because ;
they must speak in terms that can be I
translated In any way that the ex I- I
gencios of the day demand. They pos- !
s-ckr no line of definite action.
"On the one hand tli-e vocal element '
says that we have achieved the. pur- j
pose they did have in mind; that they
desire peace, but they do not like the
way in which peace was achieved. They
prefer a peace that is produced by the
methods of those who defy, of those
who brag-, of those who threaten. In
order to establish their powers they
have forgotten their manners. They
(Contl 11 ued "oiFsIxth Page.)
"""S ?1S fcftJSa- JB88F""*.
A<1 v ,rftlnfr tJllllv vl" Southern Kallwaj
Odds Expected
to Favor Wilson
Belling Commissioners Estimate
$500,000 Laid Down During
Week on Election Results.
NKW YOltlC, October "S. -Ilulf a
(ii i! 1 loti dollars lia.s \v;i(;crc'l on
the result of tli.j election at the big
hotels here during the past week. This
estimate was made to-day from the re
ports of the betting commissioners.
The oiWh which have favored Hughes
up to the present were wiped out in
th? betting to-day. All the betting?
and there was comparatively little of
it?was made at even money. The
Kcwrcity of Hughes* hackers was pv
plalned liy the iie:-lre of tli?? Kcpilbii
':;?!? supporters to yet better odds.
it is generally believed that next
week will nee the odds 10 to & in favor
of President Wilson.
Only three largo bets were reported
to-day at the hotels. Tex- Klckard,
the sporting promoter, put {.7,000 at
even money on the President':i chance
uf re-election. John A. Iirakc took
the Hughes end. Hickard, with 5.'.'>,000
more to bet on general and Ohio re.
.suits, found no takers. There wen,
two other bets at even money of 55,000
a piece.
1 he !!?'. of the larger;; layers of bets
during the w?-ek is headed by Al iJrye-,
5101,000 on Hughes: Bernard llarurh,
*100,000 on Wilson: Tex- Itichard.
* ;u.f>00 on Wilson: f:oi> Hose, 5'iO.OOO on
Hughe?; K. K. Hmathers, |."i0,(?00 on
Hughes, and James a. Murphy, tfoooo
on Wilson.
VIRGINIANS CONTRIBUTE
Prominent Alert of '?liilr lilir llotli to
Mrmoerntle nriil Iteiiiihllcun
t'limpnlgn l*ii niln.
I ] to The Times ? Oispatch
WASHINGTON. ' ?otob?*r L'v Virgin
ians "i-am? SifTOS.S" w<ll to the lo-mo
eratie campaign ehest. Her <-<>ntrihu
tors include Thomas Nelson Pag<\
American ambassador to Italy, S 1 .."0";
Oliver J. Sands, HiclnnOnd banker, M.
000: Hobert W. Woolev, of Fairfax;
Kepresentative Carter < iln: ??. Senator
Claude A. Swan son, W. i\ l.auek. of
l.uray: T. ?; Hnr-h, of .Martinsville;
M II. Tilghman. Richmond: 11. 15.
Sprowle, Staunton: 11. P. Il.irham and
It. H. Mann. Petersburg, {ion each; t..
P.. l.'avis, KoanoKe, 520"; Collector <*f
?"ustoms Hamilton, of Norfolk, $100;
J. W. Pepper, ?'1 risti.i nsburg, $"17;
roiiihi of Richmond, $?510 I.auglmrnc
Putney. Richmond, $.*00, and i!. I.. Mc
Neely. Roanoke, 53T.O.
Tite largest Republican contributors
in Virgitiia were: Kergus Iteed. of Nor
folk, and J. I. Millard, of Norfolk, who
gave MOO each. Royal K. ?'abell, for
mer <'otnmlsHioner of Internal Reve
nue; former 1'nlterJ States Marshall C.
'I. Smither*, former District Attorney
F?. Lawrence tironer and a number of
ex-Republican postmasters sent 510
each t*? the o. p. campaign treas
U ret
TO SAFEGUARD FLOUR PRICE
Miller*, nt I hteimii Meeting, IIIsi'Um
Plan f? Meet nny Ktlisniey
nt l Inn- of \\ nr.
' IU<-A<;?>, ' ?etober 2S. A: the semi
annual meeting of the Millers' Na
tional Federation here yesterday dis
cussions ? entered on a surib'eation that
at the close of the war a law be passed
permitting the exportatif^i of flour in
amounts equal to the wheat imported.
No such problem exists at present,
but. according to !'?*. H. Price, export
agent of the federation, the members
fear that at the close of hostilities an
embargo may he placed on Hour be
cause of increased home consumption,
thus Jeopardizing the stability prices.
"An embargo on flour would, of
course, indicate a situation where
wheat would have to be imported."
explained Mr. Price. "To keep up the
price of flour we ought, in such a con
tingency. to be allowed to export the
f'our equivalent of the Imported wheat.
Nonexporting millers also would bene
fit."
CIRCUS HORSES BURNED
l'ort> of Klnullnc llrotber*' l'lne*(
\nlnialH Destroyed in l'lre nt
Himt^vlllr. Ala.
lirNTSVILJ.rc. A LA.. October 'JS.
Fire destroyed forty of Rlngling
Brothers' finest horses here this after
noon. just after the horses were taken
out of the parade and returned to their
tents.
Tite tent became ignited in some
manner unknown, and It was impos
sible to get the animals out, and they
were burned before the eyes of per
haps 15,000 people. The loss is esti
mated nt 5J">.000.
NEW 10-CENT PIECES IN USE
About SI.S0.04HI Worth lllxt rlhii ted to
llatik* nnd Truxt <'oinpaiile* in
Philadelphia.
I By Associated l'r-s*. |
PI1TI.A DIvLI'H 1 A. October L'S.?The
new 10-cent pieces were put into cir
culatiott to-day for the first time, about
51SO.OOO worth being distributed to
banks and t rust companies.
The obverse sido shows a head of.
Liberty in profile, while the reverse
side shows a bundle of rods In the
center and the protruding battle ax.
symbols of unity. Surrounding the
central design is an olive wreath, de
noting peace.
SENTENCE COMMUTED
President Act* In <'n?e of < opinio .lolm
II. II. Wtirlng. Who Wit* Ordered
Dlnmlssed I'roni Army.
Illv AHHOclnted I're?>H. I
WASHINGTON. October 28.?Presi
dent Wilson lias commuted the sen
tence of dismissal from the army. Im
posed by court-martial in Hawaii upon
Captain John I?. H. Waring, Medical
Corps, to a loss of twenty-live num
bers. Specifications in the case have
not been made public.
Hallowe'en Monday nicht s( tb? Hotel
ntehmond $2 per neat four or more, re
deemable in service. Secure ' your tickcts
now.?Adv.
VIRGINIA JOINS DRY
RANKS WEDNESDAY
Becomcs Prohibition State at
Midnight October 31, After
Long Fight.
STATUTE IS MOST DRASTIC
Social Traditions of Statfc Largely
Overturned by Terms of
Mapp Law.
, in .1 little more than forty-eight
| hours tho State of Virginia will begin
11fo under a temperance code that sets
aside i oneepts of individual drinking
rights to which the Comnionweulth has
ln'i-u accustomed from the days of Sir
Kichard ? Iren villc and Captain John
Sniit It.
Sfii tied l.y tli?? l r? -?liinking Cava
liers am! the venturesome souls that
sailed the uncharted rea with Italelgh.
Virginia came late in lite under the
influence of the anti-saloon wave. The
mini 11 wns an adjunct of every ^ ir
ginia mansion. ami the julep att?l egg
nog were for years hotter known to
Virginians than oolong tea. Orchards
gave forth their cider, ami where the
grape grew there flowed the wine. In
the mountains, plentiful grain. running
|,r.ioks :? ml cheap copper conspired to
further the Output of beverages still
mote exhilarating.
In a measure these conditions ob
tained through the days of ?.5eorgc
Washington who died a* Mount \ ernon
p0sst!sst!<l of a goodly dis.tillery. down
throuch the spacious days of l!4'',. Al
though the local ?-ption laws of a few
years a^o had given warning of oi:
rushing temperance, there still pre
vailed in Virginia tlie philosophy that
i every adult person had an unqualified
right t?. drinl: ardent potions when ami
where he ple;t'<-ed. a long as Ite l>ouirht
them front :t properly licensed dculct
within legal hours.
may u?:r.i? i.hii <??t "\l\
IN ONK** HON* 1*11)11 HO UK
Jliametrlcally opposed to all of this
Is the stature that beootms law at
mii|uii;ht Tuesday. It denies th?- right
of a person to keep liquors at any place
Put his buna llde home. It prohibits
' the sale or manufacture of intoxicants
1n the State. I' allows adults liv ing in
Virginia import from out of the
state a small quantity of whisky, wine
at beer, not "fi- ;-r than once a month.
1 n order to obtain this stint, the pur
chaser must h- enrolled in p. rtnanent
books Kept b\ the express companies.
Tlie Mapp act places beyond the pale
of legalized industry the business of
?;50 liquor deal. rs. of whom IM> were
until recent 'y located in Jtichniond.
Licenses for ?tir: conduct ol" tli.-so bl!S -
nesses from May i to October :il. of this
year netted the State revenues amount
ing to SH'?,OttO. In former years when
tb- cloud "f Impending prohibition was
still no bigger ?han a man's hand, the
'figures were much larger. Front direct
and indirect fixation on the liquor in
dustry, retail, wholesale and mauufao
turing, '? i.? estimated that the State
alone, up to two yeais ano. derived an
annual income of 5r.'.O/'OO, The income
of the city <d Kichmond from liquor
| taxes and licenses has exceeded 5100,000
a year.
LO? Ml' ItKVKM'll \% \
1:1 rn(,Ti\ i: \n?d Mi:NT
Xh.. p.s.s-of-reyenue argument was an
t'iTeeti\e weapon in the hands of those
who opposed the anti--aloon program.
It took years to overcome it. With tlie
adoption of t?u segicgatlon system of
taxation Itt U'l.', the way was made
clear for lecouping tor the prohibition
loss by attaching other tax subjects,
and it is claimed now that the Mate
will not find itself embarrassed because
of the elimination of the revenue from
the liquor and allied bus;n--^.
< nit of tite <;>i licenses granted by
the State. 492 of them entitled the
grantee to sell liquor over tlie. counter,
as a retailer; there were eighty w liielt
combined the privileges or tailing
and shipping; eleven of tliem were
Issued to wholesalers: nine t<> manu
facturers and distillers ol whl-'O. fif
teen t?> make brandy, eight to whole
sale dealers in malt liquors only, twen
1 t v-otie to social clubs, tour t'? re* tillers.
?He to hotels at resorts having a
natural spring or latgc b<>d> of salt
water ami five to manufacturers of malt
liquor only.
Dealers throughout the State ba\e
been preparing for closing f"i several
weeks. Frgent preparednes appeals
have been conspicuous in every saloon,
i The man who takes his dail> eyeopeiur
and his nightly sleep-producer has been
; warned of the dry times alo ol. Many
tiealeis have completed arrangements
fur removing their btisines; to othei
territory. Still others arc ready to em
bark upon untried business \ enlutes.
. JOINS UltV ? Ol.l 1IX
H'THH I'tll U-M' tll FM.MT
Virginia joins the sisterhood of pro
hibition States after a fight that had
been actively waged by temperance
forces for four years. From the be
ginning, the campaign lot a dry \ ir
ginia was engineered and directed b>
the Anti-Saloon League, with State
headquarters in Uichmond. Hill.- pro
viding for i referendum designed to
' ascertain the will of the people with
reference to State-wide prohibition
were introduced successively in the
Legislatures of l'.MO and 15'-. only to
, meet defeat at the hands of one or
I both branches. An enabling act was
! passed in If It. in accordance with
which the referendum was submitted to
the public on September 22. 1014. State
s wide prohibition winning by about
30,000 votes.
I .During the legislative elections of
IM5. the Anti-Saloon League had in the
field a compreiiensi ve organization
! which undertook to secure the election
! of a new General Assembly pledged in
advance to strict State-wide prohibition.
A large majority of the M0 Delegates
and Senators were elected on this plat
form, and me Legislature that met in
January, 1916, followed praelically
without deviation the prohibition pro
* (CbTTffnued on Klghth rage.)
I?AI.T I.MURK 11 v BOAT.
Vork Itlver Line N'cw Steamers.
42.00 ono way; H.iO round trip. Adv.
CABRERA ASSAILS
II. S. NEUTRALITY
His Criticisms Threaten Compli
cations With Mexican Dc
Facto Government.
ADMITTEDLY EXTRAORDINARY
State Department Not Expected
to Ignore Statement by Head
of Carranza Commission.
: Carranza Also
Blames Americans
Hy Associated I
' MK.YH O I ITV, MKA.. October i!S.
?Tli Ml tlir \ 111 In tn movfmrnt In
< liilioahiia hns lirrn nlilc- to ron
tlniip Iipciiiihp (?f the fitcllitlcN Riven
tli?? enrinlps or thr count HiitloiiuliM
KOYertt mpiit in the I Ultril Stiitpw
hiii tbe decliirntloii of (jentrnl < iir
rnn/.ii, in h ntntenient hr ruvp to tlip
l>rps? lo-dny.
Iipiiprnl t.'nrpim/.H nililrd Mint hi*
Co vermeil t would p> rntiinllr Hii|i
I?rp??>? tilt* rplipl movement In ? lil
hiiiiliiin. Up nloo denlpil report*
tluil Hip t oiintliulloiinliil fnrt'ps hml
ibppii dpfpnted by rpbpl hnniln in vn
rlinii NprtloiiN of JSoiithpm Me.vlcn,
! n>- Associated I'resn.]
W ASH I N'lrro.v, October 2S.?New
complications with the Mtxloan do
facto (:ovornmi'iit threatened to-day as
a result of a statement issued hero
thrv.ui.-n the Mexican Information Uu
reau. .*>:!'"? attributed I1"1 1-uis Cabrera.
It assails in .'-sharp language American
neutrality, ami the administration of
immigration laws a.s regards Mexico.
Mr. Cabrera is Minister of Finance in
Carranza's Cabinet and president of
the Mexican commission now partici
pating i n the joint conference over
border dllllculties at Atlantic City, and
there :: re indications that his crlti
i cisms will not he ignored at the State
Department.
While tefusing to enter into :tny dis
cussion of the statement at this time,
administration oflieials characterized It
a- extraordinary. Secretary J.ansing
would make no comment. It Is known,
however, that steps to establish the
authenticity of the document were
taken under consideration immediately.
Kllseo Arredondo. Mexican ambassa
dor-designate denied himself to all
callers. Although thr- Mexican Infor
mation JJureau has b*en understood to
? have at least semiofficial relations with
the embassy. <?:? status has never been
clearly defined. Kmbassy officials as
serted emphatically that Mr. Arre
dondo bad not been consulted before
the statement was issued, and had no
knowledge that it was in contempla
tion. The statement, which bears the
name of the bureau and the word "of
ficial." in addition to the introduction
? attributing it to Mr. Cabrera, is as
follows:
"A broad interpretation of the Fed
eral laws of the raited States dealing
wilh neutrality, and regulating immi
gration with a strict, consistent and
efficient administration of these laws
by the executives lo whom their ad
ministration Is delegated, would go a
? long ways toward correcting Die border
disturbance, and allay much of the
' unrest which at present pervades that
region.
m \ > v i;noi l's immh \i.
To r\nnAV/,A ?;?vi:ii\?r.\T
"In the United States are many Mex
icans and groups of Mexicans inimical
the Carranza government. Plot
ting." and schemes without end are en*
caged in. not alone by the extreme con
servatives who are striving t.i bring
, on intervention, with the hope that
the Constitutionalist government shall
be destroyed with the aid of American
1 armies. but also there are groups of
extremely radical malcontents, whose
hope is the destruction of the Carranza
government, in order that license,
banditry and rapine may continue and
multiply. until human rights and prop
erty rights all are destroyed.
"The conservatives and reactionaries
are taking advantage of the situation
created by the ultra-radicals. The im
portation of arms and munitions for
the use of Villa, Zapata and the other
bandit" and brigands, is conducted un
der the very eyes of supine olllclals,
whose business it would be to hinder
their transmission across the border.
"The propaganda of revolt against
constituted order is being promoted by
scores of conspirators, known to both
the Mexican and the American ofli. dais,
who by even the most strictly literal
interpretation of Ainet lea's immigra
tion laws sho ild be deported from the
I 'ill ted States.
"That the American government is
competent to restrict and restrain the
exportation of arms and ammunition is
p/oved by the fact Hint during the early
days nf the Carranza revolt against the
usurper lluerta, these laws were on
forced with an almost e<iual rigidity
against < 'arranza.
"That t lie laws govern t he conduct of
undesirable aliens is nroved throughout
the United States every day in Hie year.
Activity, energy, vigilance and per
sistency can correct the situation, lu
dilYerence, carelessness, heedless lib
erality. can make only a bad case
worse."
It was said at the bureau that the
statement had been obtained from Mr.
Cabrera directly, and was made public
with his approval.
The niiostlon of the interest the State i
Department may take in I he statement
is somewhat involved, as Mr. Cabrera's
status with relation to 'his govern
ment is not the same as tliat of an no- j
credited diplomatic or consular olll- !
clal.
The fact that investigation of the |
authenticity of the statement was In I
! contemplation was taken to mean that!
(t'ontlnueil f<n Second Pa?e.> I
(!, A O. UOVTK TO NORFOLK. j
> Three Kim! Trains leavo Hlcbinond S:30|
A. M., 1- Noon, I !'? M. 1'arlor curu.
HUGHES IS HEARD
BY RURAL VOTERS
Republican Presidential Nominee
Campaigns Among Farmers of 1
Northern New York.
i
NEARLY RUN DOWN BY TRAIN
Maintenance of American Rights,
He Says, Essential to All Pros- :
perity and Progress.
Illy AKHnolntcl Pi?. i
OODIJ.VSLtUKG. N*. Y.. Octobe US.?!
Charles K. Hughes campaigned to-day
anions; the farmers of Northern Mew
York. Three audiences of rural voters I
hoard him (luring i'l'e day and another]
here to-night. lie .spoke eliieily on He- '
publican policies affecting agriculture. |
the tariff, the need for preparation to1
meet the competition of an energized
Kurope after the war, and the Adam
.son law. Maintenance of American
rights on land and sea. ho declared,
was essential to all prosperity and
progress.
"We shall accomplish nothing in this
country unless wo have the driving
power of patriotic sentiment." he dc- i
clared.
"There is no future for a decadent|
people. We. do not want war. I am
amazed at the audacity of the assertion
that a vote for me is a vote for war.
I atn a man devoted to peace.
"You cannot hope to maintain your
peace if you present to the world the
spectacle of a timid people that has
forgotten (lie courage and indomitable I
spirit of the founders ;>iul preservers;
of this nation: a people that backs and <
backs and talks and talks and talks ?
and never stands. There is no peace
for the United States with such a
policy."
m:\hi.v iti .\ no\\\y
II v his owx l it.* i \ i
Mr. Hughes was nearly run down by
his own special train at Oswego. a
nervous cliauffcur drovo the automo
bile containing the nominee past the
lanJ'ng at tile railroad station, direct-,
ly across the tracks in frcnl of the
slowly approaching train. A sharp'
curve hid the train from view, and the'
blaring of a brass band drowned the
noi.'c of its approach. Hundreds of'
persons were massed about the car.
\\ hen the engine came into view it
was less than thirty feet from the
nominee's automobile. The chauffeur
backed into the car behind, and the.
engineer jammed on the emergency!
brakes. There was a ? scramble for j
safety by the crowd, and no one was
injured.
"Let i?,-?i labor deceive itself with
the delusion that we can maintain the,
prosperity we now enjoy, based on the
j exceptional demands ?.f Ihe war." the |
nominee told his audience at Oswego, j
in discussing the tariff. "We are,
cherishing the notion of a pros- i
perity suddenly created, and destined
to cease when t!i<< war ends. Tliln is!
; omlng, attd you can't dispose of it
by phrases. ^ on can't tnoek it by
words. It is there; it is going to come."
At Watertown the notninee charac
, teri5:?d the an t idumpinr provision of
the rc\ ?" title act as "farcical, practical- '
i ly unworkable, substantially useless.",
j "Why did our opponents put those
provisions in?" he asked "It is per
J feetly patent that there is no yrotec- ;
! tlon at all in that so-called antidump
ing clause. Why did not they put in
countervailing duties? They do not be
lleve in that tariff principle. They do!
not believe fnw In the protective prin-i
, ciplc. ' !
>11 vt hdmiivi:
i\ I'lKiTKci ivi: ruiM iri.r. |
*'Thej said four y?nrs ago it was ?
unconstitutional to apply It. They
have not taken it back. They have
provided a tariff commission. 1 wel
come it and believe in it. but you have
got Jo have a majority in Oongress?
it is < 'ongress that passes bills?and '
ele.'t one that believes in ? protective.
I principle or j on will never get it."
1 Mr. Hughes assailed the enactment
I or' 111e Underwood law. with reference
| to the low duties on agricultural prod-'
! uct lie also attacked the Adamson
law. asking. "Who in the' world can
tell what this particular bill means?"
land ile 'hiring that "lie had read an an
[ >? wc*? on behalf of one of the brother
hoods saying "they had not unite made j
tip their minds yet as to what it did
um a n."
"Th-re i.- no friendship for labor in
that sort of surrender," Mr. Hughes!
said. "The best friend of labor is the
friend of justice, but in the long runt
that i- what labor must relv un."
* I
IKIIISKVKV.T HITTKHl.t I
VI'TA ( lis l>Ui:SII)l.\l'
' Mv A?soe!iit?il Press. |
Nl.W ^i?liK. October 2S.?Theodore!
Housevelt, in an address at the. Hrook
lyn \cadeni} of Music to-night, do-;
clare?l that if to-day is "what our !*?uii
ocrate friends call 'Wilson Day,'" It ?
should In- "appointed a day of fasting'
and humiliation."
"I'or during the past three years."
he went on, "the people of the United
States have eaten the bitter bread of
shame and trod the paths of dishonor
under the leadership of Mr. Wilson."
The t'olonel directed most of his at-'
tack against the recent declaration
of Mr. Wilson that the present was the,
last great world war that the United
States cau keep out of.
"We have never had any candidate 1
for so high an olllce who was so ut
terly indifferent to the reversal of all
Ills professed convictions and princi
ples. and. above all, so Indifferent to
the tlat_ contradict ion between his
words and his acts on almost every
issue of real importance before the!
people," he said.
In closing tjoloncl Kooseve.lt de- j
dared President Wilson's whole course,
has been wrong, and it no more fol
lows we must get into the next war'
than we would have got into this lf(
we had protested vigorously the mo
ment Itelgium'H neutrality whs threat- j
ened with violation.
Allied Bomb Hits
Emperor's Train
Missile Dropped by Aviator
Kills Engineer, Says Re
port From Zurich.
I AmhOI'Iut<<<l Pre**.!
''AIlls, October "S.?A bomb. drop
I' <1 bj an aviator of the entente al
lies. liurj hilled tl.o englti ?er driving
the train of Hniperor William of Ger
many. according to Information receiv
ed at Zurich. Switzerland.
K.nperor AViIlium recentlv was ,*c
Portcd to bo at Uapau.no, on the Som.no
front, personally overseeing the pre
liminaries tor a eounterofronslve for
*hleh the German troops there wore
*uld to have received strong re-en
forcementN.
Apparently during- this visit ho de
m.red a brief speech to the Ger
? troops thanking them for the "He
roic manner" In whl-h they had fought
for four months.
on .Monday la.st. the Kmperor waa
vm h . a hriof vifift- i
with the Imperial Chancellor and visit- '
111,1 Pilnou at Potsdam. His move
port I S'n"? tllCn h,4VO not bccn w-j
RESORTING TO LIES
I'ranklin II. itoonevrtt O^frnri, n,r i
* ,,vf ? Speech nt Provi
dence, It. J,
,,,lf>VI DI5XCE, It. I.. Oorober 2S - .
Misquotations*. misinterpretations and
es about the Democratic admlnlstra
tion ?ero churned against Republicans
andI opposition newspapers by Franklin
l>. Koosevelt. Assistant Seeretarv of the .
:lJy- in his speech here last night
"As t? the outcome of the election. Ii
vei ,"r.C. .'S n? I'1*'"1'""" Mr. Iloose
t.t told his audience. "There- would
be no need of my speaking here to
ll,' ur ot ,lM-v ?'?? else speaking, were
t not necessary to renpond to the un
ah- attacks which have been made on
the President and all his advisers.
.Misquotations and mlsrepresenta- j
jon^yen. lies-have bee,, used bv the I
... " 1 s opponents. r say lies he-f
lo'"ise,t,liat 'S * K??'' 'Roosevelt* word
Mr. Uoosevelt ci(ed some of his e*- !
Ki-T, I" ",C N"ilVV ,t In!
1 roof .jf his staN-ments. He p:i!lj pjlr. ?
11 Imr attention to the recent state,
or Mr. Hughes that less a "!n. i
;Ion should be paid to punctuation and I
of the "ore? th"1 branch !
.b'o'?-V? Mr- "'"r,,rs ,?ou,,> a trip 1
h? . V '"' V"^1 Urtoro the ??"1 of I
wlMli 'h"'.0 Sa't1 *Ur* ttooHcvelt. -1
of the nIT''" ,h? tn,fh n',OUt lhc aUitc i
of the navy ?N We found It In 1!>in ) I
Uia? i,'LCOi,,<1 SC" U,? in,Provpniont?
that ha\ o been made before he re
Peats his demand for .nrget practice '
Does Mr. TI ?os Unow. j uom]er ?
that the navy in 1:1 in had reached it- t
lZ?\<?el?r !n tarK-1
... " n*1' i "re shooting
irUe. l ^ V ,WHv" "?"?*?? niiles j
,r ?f s,x to ?'Kht miles, and mak
ing as many hits in proportion as they'
er nnid? In the old days?"
OLD-TIME CHOIR BOOK
< ?nr Of IA7H lOriifIon Offered .o
hrrry t.iUrnry. n,lrnff,i, ur
?-IIICAGO, October 2S.?A conv or'
* hat is said to be the rirst choir book
offered IL6'1,,0" viS oontlncnt >'?? been I
<'liiiMiur , .Newberry I.ibrary. of
' lucairi', by the A,0.?t Ucv. Francisco
Mexieor n' A.rfvhhi,lb^ Montcrcv. ?
'1-1 , T,?;'e l!0'"- 'l announced
?o The book, published in 1.-.7C Is
one of he four ,n existence. ,he otl.e^
-Muxicfi. C 1,1 '-ondon, Hern,, and
?p. 1 hijU , erna rkably well printed i
Pi-skin C* it "f WO?"- ,IM!R8C<1 ?" louKh
tl,; n "; J?hft ?h"?rr 'hito o?
#, . . rtim ciaio
the Irst page are Pedro Ocharte. 15T6
Pfnidualae domlnicale"? the '
!. '?? bo?k?>.< fo.,,.., ;
""?>? or an In.lia,, In nn'?
ea'r"'^
' heir attack on the Zapatistas. The
!!' s I'rosen ted it to Archbishop 1
a' rt?' J'at<!r il was overlooked hv
Uh irv "f1 Mf?ri'? U""n th"
st roved. " ur',htrt?^ was do-?
READY FOR ACCEPTANCE SOON !
S|.anlN|, Xui,IIMIr|llr# | J
Su.,1 ,0 Have Me, All
? onfrnef Hei,?Jren>en,.s.
wri.v-y. MASS.. October CS.-The i
Spanish submarine Isaac Feral, which I
cv.^v rr1"'1-' has fiiliilled '
xe.j contract requirement, aceordins
to word received l,y her builders, the
f'fr Pr vl Shipbuilding ('orpora. Ion. ;
? I o\ inceiown the submarine went i
la ted Taw '? ''l "?,Mh 1,"'?W ,h0 '
u la ted ? w.;|5! st;ito<1
on the surface was said to exceed iif- :
suhmcV^e'h i4'"' ",0''C ,0,i 11 "ot* |
With her .rials M,e l^aac ?
e.al is now tfolim through a tralnlnr
Period co allow her Spanish crew
beccMne thoron^ilv acc?,,on,ed the
11 T , IS t'xl,octed she will |?.
ber ?r.. acceptance about Xovcm.
JURY UNABLE TO AGREE
M"' Ue,n.?Mle,l
1 1 rl,lt Ordered to llefjlii
?mi Xovrinlier HI.
...... fM> A^oeLuoil I're>. I
NhWAlSK. \. j.. October 2*. ri.c
Jt.ry In t!Sc (.a.se of >,,.s Mari;a.-et ,? I
lh-u'lnRor accfod of havi.,K shot and' '
killed her husband. Crltof. reported at '
I I. M. to.day, after bavin* been out
'! !,,Rlu th?t had been unable u. '
Mrs 'VTm110'' U,l<l ,V,lS f,,?eharKecl.
Mis. I.cutin*cr was remanded to jail
."'d a n. w trial was ordered to heKlii '
on November 21. 1
,h' m ,,h I
-J^-bl,v,? sorvioi, sec,iro Tou'r0'^^ I
ON INVADERS; TAKE
1,800JPR1S0NERS
Austro-German Forces Arc
Meeting With Stubborn
Opposition.
PISCUL IN MORAVIAN
SECTION, RECAPTURED
*
Attack in Uzul Valley Results in
Repulse of Von Falken
hayn's Men.
FRKXCIT GAIN" NEAR DOUAUMONT
In Vnlliynln, Russians Are Drlre??
Hack WItli Heavy Losses
to Attackers.
' My Associated Presrt.J
LO.VDON*, October 23?Austro-Ger*
man forces attempting to advancg Into
Uoumnnla alone the Transylvanlan
frontier arc meeting' with stubborn op
position. Roumanian troops, taking
the offensive at .several points on th?
long front, have repulsed the Invadora*.
and have taken more than 1,500 pris
oners. Hukharest announces.
On the Moravian scctlon of the fron
tier the Roumanians recaptured Plscul
?,n ."ir. Tr?tU'! Va,,?y. and at Tulghes
and Hlcass and in the Uzul Valley took
1.1 on men. The attack In tho Uzul Val
ley also resulted In tlio repulse of Gen
oral von Falkcnhayn's men and the
capture of five machine suns and war
inat erials.
North ..r Campulung, Bukharest saya
a count prat tack In the region 'of
DragoslavH netted .100 prisoners. Fur
ther west in Wallnchia, in the Jlul Val
Kv, tho Roumanian offensive contin
ues successfully with tho capture of
4.0 prisoners and sixteen machine gunn
Merlin announces the taking- of a
height south of Kronstadt. and de
clares that "otherwise the situation is
not essentially changed."
X C?.V .11A Civ \ s m |,;cts
H | 1 " I'l'lTliK (tl't'o.SlTION
The retreat of (hlS Russo-IJoumanlan
forces in Dobrudja continues, and Ber
lin records that Field Marshal von
Markensen is meeting with little oppo
j ?. ? hundred more prisoners
have hee,, taken by the Teutonic al
lies. as well as several munition col
umns and baggagu .trains.
Tn the region of noma Wat,a, where
Bukowlna, Transylvania and Rou
manla come together, several heights
have been occupied by Austrian troops,
'etrograd nays the Russo-Jtoumanlan
troops were forced to fall hack in that
region, abandoning two heights. '
iTcnch troops have captured
quarry northeast or Fort Douaumont.
in the \cvdun region. The repulse or
1-rencl, attacks there, as well as
J< raneo-Brit ish efforts on the Sommo
front. Is announced hy Berlin.
In Volhynla. west of* Lutsk. the Aus
t ro-German forces repulsed a Russian
sittaek with heavy losses to the at
tacked. Otherwise there lias been llt
' e activity on the Russian front, in
Macedonia, bad weather Is holding up
. Monsho operations. Except for small
Italian advances in tho Adlgo Valloy.
n he T rentino, and southeast of Go
nzia. on the Isonzo. there has been
no change on the Austro-Ttalian front.
WMV si-ivkh.%1, 111:1,.,, rs
AT I'tn.vr OK BA VOXET
fMy I'rry.s. J
BFBLLV, October 2S (via Savvlllc).
-Teutonic troops have won a victory
Ji the Dorna Wutra region, near the
Junction point uf the frontiers of Bu
Kowiiih. Transylvania nnfi Roumanla,
according to to-day** Wnr Office an
nouncement. Aus tro-Hungarian force,
raptured several heights front the Run
stuns at tho point of the bayonet, and
took more than 500 prisoners.
( UN 1*1.VI |.; 'I'llK||{ IM KSriT
OF III SSU-IIOCMAXIAX An.MIKS
I My A.<.-orljt t".I Press.]
I>I-. U LIN, October 2S (via Sayville),
r<-uton- Bulgu r-Turk ish forces, under
command ..r Field Marshal von Mack
en.-r-n. continue their pursuit of the
Russian and Boumanlnn armies In
Northern Dobrudja, aa>'s t>,? 0,nclat
. tateinent issued at Gentian army head
quiirters to-day.
The f,,rcea of the central powers and
tin ir allies are meeting with llttlo
resistance, it is declared.
Five hnnilred Isolate.! soldiers have
n taken prisoner and several mu
nition columns and other war material
have been captured.
itlitsov.v oco i'iioi>
nv ti:i toxic ai,ui:s
!! v Asx>ci;tte?) Press. J
.SOFIA, October 27 (via I.ondon. On
to!" r 2S). The Teutonic allies in T5b
bruja, under the command of Field
Marshal von Mackcnsen. have occupied
11irsova, on the l>anube River, about
forty miles north of the Tchernavod'a
I'on.slnnza line, says the Bulgarian
War Oillce statement to-day. Tliero Is
no gre,u activity on the other Bul
garian fronts. The official announce
inein reads:
The Macedonian front Is relatively
calm. Met ween Lake I'resba and Doi
'?an there was feeble cannonading. At
1 tie tool ,.f Belaschitza planlt there was
calm. there was artillery tire on the
Struma trout. On the Aegean shore
tin- ??U'-my shelled tho heights near
< 'rfana.
Roumanian trout: Tho Black Sea
?'t'WMt \\ ??S > 'h III),
"in I "ot-rudja we pursued the van
<iiiished em my and occupied Illraova.
FltlCM I, TAliK tll'AHHV
nv okii.ma.\?
I in A<>?ociarciI Press.]
I'Allls. October 28.?French forces
in th- region of Verdun last night
captured by the nse of bond grenades
Ihe f|iuirry held by the Germanti to tha
northeast of Fort Douaumont, Jt wat/
oillclally announced by the French War
Department to-day. A brisk arttUory
