AreM; Britain's
VIUUMKI TOO P
; MAILt "
From Ran Francisco:
. Manoa, June 13.
Fot San Francisco ;
-Mppon Jilaru,-June 7,
r from Vancouver?
5)-
far
L
own
3 D-n r, r !
"j wrfii t,r
nra h m ;s
1 .
' aiakura, Juae. 14. '
For Vancouver- .
Niagara, June 23.
.4
Weekly Bulletin, VoL .VITT. No. 1G33
Soxi-Weekly Star. Vol. XIV. No. 5830
-HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, TUESDAY JUNE G, 101 G.
TRICE HTO CENTS
. : : . ! :;; ) h ::;:;:;-
: LI J LiU. 1 1 I 1 -A . VU Li ' .-'i P:
; . ' J U 'Li ' J i -. - ' L- ZH
':'LL"-;:,-;: ;V.V::vL-; : A J i , A L
nn
r
mmmt
mmmim;
ma.
w
nc
1L i -
nn
- . , - i . -'....'...'.'
ROBERTS
(By Associated Press Cable and Wireless)
la
st
LpND.ON;;:Eng;fJun
Supreme Admiral Jellicoe early today reported to the British Admiry that t lost off the Orkneys. He reports
that the cruiser was eh route to Russia when the explosion occured which wrecked t the explosion 'was caused '
either by a mine a torpedo. Patrols are searching for the bodies and for possible survivors. Some bodies and a capsized boat have
hppn frmnrf TUt oVi
rwwAA wwtiu Aiiv onuiw ui uiw loianuo 10 uwiug owai CllWU UUl uiwi w 10 iiiu&tiiup& iiiai OU1 Vl VUl O VYlll UC lUUllUi ,
' It is believed that the Hampshire intended -to go to Archangel, thie Russian port on the White Sea, where the war minister and
Rich ener s staff included Huh Obeirne, ex-counseller of the ehibassy at Petrograd;.0. A. Fitzgerard, Kitchener private military
secretary; Brigadier-generd Eller the British war-council has been called.
. m a( rf-kf" 4-1 W inrk1 iiviTr nfn-T iwrill t4tnU1tr nnirtn4 XTtnUnMn L711niM f 41 A AvAff
news, ousin ess was suspended on the London stock exchange today.
LOST crx'iczti IS
I: of io.gso to;:s
' The ' Hampshire was an ar
mored cruiser. of the Devonshire
Class, 10,S50 tons, built In 1S03-04,
450 feet length, with a main bat-tery-of
4 7-lnch guns and 6 6
Inchers. Her speed was 22.4
knoti. . - . ". :
K ' IT m 1 I
lUfll
11
i cum if hip
umiruHl A
ODBIIMIS
mm FACTOR
Acute Stomach Trouble. - and
: Nervous Breakdown Given
: as Causes of Fatal Illness;
:: Vice-President LI, Who Suc
ceeds Him, is Acceptable to
: ; Revolutionaries :
, PEKING, Qiina. June 6. After
n illness of several . days' due to
acute stomach trouble, followed by
a nervous breakdown. President
Yuan Shih-Kai of China died to
day.. :' "; '
Prcrhier Tuan Gii-Jui lias advis
ed Li . ruan Hung, vice-president
t'of the republic, that he succeeds
!Yi;an as president. - Quiet prevails
in the cities, following the news that
Yuan had died. The succession of
Xt to power meets the demands of
He" leaders of the revolt, ; who had
idared that they were unalterably
Opssed- to ? Yuan ' Shih-Kai but
would be satisfied if he left office
and allowed some such man as Li
to succeed him. - r ;
TI firricultcral progress ct Guate-;
FAMED GENERAL WHO
IS LOST TO BRITISH -CAUSE
IN NORTH SEA
1
9 '
mm
v.
MstHeraofr
j KITCHENER OF KHARTOUM.
I
Col. Ceorgo M. lmnn, military at
tache to the . American embassy at
P;-tt Vino lorj nrjlorol (n Anfry-
Lord Kitchener was born June 24, 1850, arid is thus almost 66 years
of age. ! For years he has been called the "ideal soldier" and though
criticized since the war has been in progress, is one of the greatest of
Britain's living heroes. " Z- : ;'.
Oi several things that entitle Earl Kitchener to a place in world
history, the most notable istliat he organized the largest volunteer army
the world has ever seen,. in tlie greatest war of all times.
- Within a year from the sudden outbreak of the European war in
August, 1914, the ranks of I'ritish righting men were quadrupled by an
increase' from Jess than 1.000.0CO to nearly 4,000,000.
, By mere luck Kitchener happened to be in England on one of the
comparatively, rare visits that he had paid to London during his long
career abroad, when the European war broke out. He had just, come
home from service as British agent in Egypt, had accepted an earldom
from King George, and was being talked of as Viceroy of India. Within
a few hours after England's declaration of war, Kitchener was "appoint
ed Secretary of State for War and immediately- took full charge at the
war office where he worked day and night to overcome the handicap
which the Central Powers had over England in the matter of fighting
strength. ; ;vv'; :'
He was "born June 24, 1850. in County Kern-, Ireland, a fact that
gave rise to a general belief that he was of Irish blood, but his parents
were of French and English descent; His father was a soldier, but of
no very high rank. He had managed to climb, to the lieutenant-colonelcy
of a dragoon regiment, when he retired to the estate in Ireland
where Horatio Herbert Kitchener, the to-be-distinguished son. was born.
Young Kitchener received his fundamental military education at Wool
wich, where he displayed only ordinary brilliancy, with the exception of
his liking for mathematics. On graduating he received a commission
in the Royal Engineers, but when not yet 21 years of age he attached
himself to a French army in the Franco-Prussian war. He had been
in the service only a short time when he contracted pneumonia during
a balloon flight, and had such a prolonged and serious illness that he
had to give up further service for France. Kitchener's experience . in
European warfare prior to his direction of the great war o'f 1914
therefore, had been limited only to a few balloon flights in France.
' In 1886 he became governor of the Red Sea territories and set in
motion a series of raids on the notorious Osman Digria, the dervish
leader. In one of these raids Kitchener's men were flanked and put tn i
flight, during which he received a bullet which broke his jaw.
Bv this time much was heard in England " of Kitchener's work in
Eg)Tt and when he returned there for a short rest he was received with
honor arid nominated aide-de-camp of Queen. Victoria.: With his health
recruited, he went back to Egypt where, on the resignation of Sir Fran-
P; mMiai priori i APfE7C' cAi i p
WtthSAIMmwmMMS Li int. c a i ILL
"V:- ; ' n ft am n d n p inn
v - vim ri PiFfiag ii i:
HIGH ARMY OFFICER :
WHO IS LIKELY TO
SUCCEED KITCHENER
1 " :
(
A
-1:
v- : ;
I
P
It i
urn
JSIS
(Str Bulletii by 'Mniul WireleM) - -
HILO, Hawaii. June 6. This is declared to be the mort tpectacular aay
in the history of the volcano of Kilauea since 1894, ';
.' . Late yesterday the "bottom fell cut of Kilauea" as enthralled specta
tors expressed it -and the lava sank 330 feet in four hours.
The earthquakes are continuing, the sides of the crater crushing down
to the bottom of the pit, falling in great masses into the seething sea ke
low the rim. There is much excitement on the Big Island. t-
Wireless advices from A. N. Campbell, vice-president and a director of
the Hilo. Railroad, who is on Hawaii looking after Hilo Railroad affairs,
tell of. a magnificent display at Kilauea.
Spent remarkable day at Halemaumau," he wirelessed to R. W. Shingle.
"Lake fell 300 feeL? Tremendous fall of all the benches Large lake 6C0'
eet down still boiling. Avalanches continue. Jaggar says lake will prob
ably rise again. This Is the most wonderful day since 1894. The spectac
ular show still continues'
'jifl. . Sir William Robertson,
who a few months ago was ap
i pointed chief cf the British army
! . staff. He
i Kitchener.
may now succeed
I
. The Chinese custom of burning
small pieces of gold leaf on various
3 T VOW - C
i GERMAN OFFICIAL
I CABLEGRAMS
.
GERMAN HEADQUARTERS, June
4. Several English attacks against
positions southeast of Ypres,- recently
conquered by ' Germans, were - flatly
repulsed. ;ArtilIery engagements, north
of Arras and ia the district of Albert
continued also yesterday. English
reconuoitering ; parties were repulsed.
Several hostile blastings . southeast
of NeuTille and Ste yaast ere with
out effect. . '
On the left bank of the Meuse a hos
tile attack west of Height 304 was
easily.: repulsed. One machine gun
was : taken by . the Germans. On the
east . bank ; heavy engagements be
tween Caillette forest .and Damloup
progress further successfully for Ger
mans. ' . ;- ' '
.- Yesterday mere -than - 500,. French
were , prison ered, among whom were
three -orficers, and four machine gun3
taken Several gas attacks by the
enemy west o ilarkirch were with
out tli e slightest effect.;
Hostile flyers killed : several Bel
gians by bomb3 ln Flanders. No mili
tary 4amage done. In Hallebeke an
English aeroplane was shot down by
defensive cannons.
5. The British again attacked posi
tions conquered by us southeast of
Ypres yesterday evening. The attack
broke down in artillery fire. - A' feeMa
French attack undertaken after gas
preparation, near Prima? . in Cham
lagne failed. v
! West of Meuse, O'tr artillery with
good success fli'ed. against the ene
my's Latteries; and-trenches. French
infantry attempted .to-advance- asainst
our trenches west of Haucourt Esnes
road, being : repulsed. In east Meuse
bitter lr'ahting between CaMIette for
st and Damloirf is going en with un
diminished violence. : Enemy's infan
try, massed, tried to regain position
conquered by us during last . days.
Greatest efforts were made by the
enemy cn 'FnimtridgA, southwest of
Village Vanx and !n the district south-
e?StW3-!. . ; . . ..' .r
C All French attacks, without . excep
tion were repulsed w ith heaviest loss
es for tbe enemy. German reconnoit
ering detachments entered enemy's
positions along the Yeer, north of Ar
ras, east of Albert, and near Allkfrch
forest Thirty French; 20 Belgians
and 25 British men were- captured.
One mire thrower was also taken.
i.ir combats during May were very
successful for us. .The enemy lost 36
aeroplanes, which were shot down.
