WHOYS WHO-.... 7FlMjp M More pecl writers of
whats w tt the great con --tionaN rqown cover.
vention in Chicago, which opens eng the Chicago convention gor The
tomorrow. is being fully and com- Herald than you'll find In any other
pletely described -and reported Washington newspaper. To keep fully
daily Informed Of what&a going on in the
account tr-cair IN THE HERALD
NO. 3518. WEATHER-PARTLY CLouDY. WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, JUNE 6. 1916. - ONE CENT.
RUSSIAN ARMY
HITS AUSTRI AN
LINE HARD BLOW
Czar's Troops Start Smashing
Offensive Along 300
Mile Front.
DRIVE WAS UNEXPECTED
Russians Take Advantage of
Gaps Left by Drafts Sent
to Italian Border.
MANY IMPORTANT SUCCESSES
Torrential Rains Bring Temporary
Halt to Fighting at Fort Vaux.
Near Verdun.
(by the Iaternatieal News Service.)
Petrogad. June 5.-In a sudden smash
Ing offensive over a line of more than
3M0 miles, the Russian army has taken
13.000 prisoners and has administered a
powerful blow to the Austro-Hungarians.
Supported by their heaviest artillery.
the Czar's forces were launched at the
Austrain line from Pripet River to the
Rounanian border. The first assaults
were made on Sunday after a tremen
dous battle. Many Austrian positions
were Phattered. and the fighting has de
veloped into a general action which is
bailed as the opening of the long awaited
drive.
The Russian commanders. It is believed.
took advantage of the gaps created in the
Austrlan ranks by the heavy drafts sent
to the Italian front. The announcement
of the success won came as a distinct
surprise to the capital, where it has
aroused intense enthusiasm. Tonight's
official statement says:
"Yesterday the fighting extended from
the Pripet River to the Roumanian
frontier. We achieved important suc
ceases on many sectors. capturing 13.000
men, guns, and machine gums. The
extent of the fighting still is developing.
Vienna Admits Blow.
Vienna. June 5.-Austrian headquarters
announced tonight that a great battle is
in progress on the Russian front. The
"zar's army is delivering particularly
heavy attacks between the Pruth and the
River Styr. in the Pripet marsh region.
and in the Tarnopol section west of the
9trypa. in Galicia.
Offcil statements admit the Austrian
line near Tarnopol has been pierced, but
assert the positions temporarily lost have
>een recaptured.
Raise Halt Verdun Fight.
London. June 5.-Torrential rains today
brought to a temporary halt the German
attack against Fort Vaux, outwork of
the Verdun stronghold, against which
the Germans have been hammering with
dogged determination for the past few
,lays. Although the big guns continue
their terrible exchange of shells, no in
fantry actions were fought during the
lay. according to the French officlaj
statement received tonight.
POPE HALTS PLANS FOR
PEACE; FEARS INJUSTICE
4BY the Su News Service.)
Rome (via London), June S.-Reports
that Pope Benedict and King Alfonso,
of Spain. are Jointly striving to co
operate with President Wilson's efforts
in behalf of peace was denied at the
Vatican today.
It was explained that the pontiff ap
proves of any initiative intended to
hasten peace, but that he realizes that
the central powers are now willing to
end the war because they hope to gain a
real advantage from the military situa
tion, and thus to gain a peace on favor
able conditions.
It is expected the Pope will inform the
allies that he will refuse mediation,
especially on the part of President Wil
son, whose efforts for peace are suspectea
here to be prompted by considerations
:oncerning his re-election.
"SHOOT UP" COUNTRY CHURCH.
Drunken Kentucky "Hill Billies" in
Battle with Worshippers.
Jackson. Ky.. June 6.-A crowd of a
dozen intoxicated "Hill Billies" yester
day shot up a little country church on
tLeatherwood Creek, in the mountains
near here. One man was killed and a
score of others. including many women
members of the congregation. were in
lured in a pitched battle which followed,
Posses went out fren here today to
search for the disturhers.
Cyclone Rita Kissiasippi.
Natches. Miss.. June 5.-F~ive women
were injured, three of them fatally, and
:en psouses and a church demolished
whien a cyclone struck Grove, a small vil
age near here.
Austrian Freighter Sank.
Rome. June 5.-The destruction of an
Austrian freighter by an Italian torpedo
beateof the Daimatian coast was ofS
tally annoaunced today.
Dritish Stealier in Collision.
London. June 6.-The British steamship
Phildelphian was dmed in enlin
with the Norwegian 5t Se an Loa,
af Grassoa tOda, .
Brain-Weary Public
Demands Easy Dances
New York, June 5.-Danc
ing is more popular than ever.
The one-step, the fox-trot
and the waltz are the favor
ite steps. The public asks for
more simplified dances, de
manding less brain work.
These are the conclusions of
the International Association
of Master of Dancing, which
opened a week's convention
at the Hotel Martinique yes
terday. Miss Hulda Hanker,
of California, gave some inter
pretive dancing, arme move
ments and motion speech.
WILSON GIVES
PLATFORM O.K.
President Indorses Demo
cratic Program of Peace,
Plenty and Preparedness.
ADMINISTRATION HOPES
FOR SPLIT IN G. 0. P.
Dfficials Believe Roosevelt Will Head
Progressive Ticket if Hughes
Is Nominated.
President Wilson has examined the
draft of *he Democratic national plat
form and given it his approval. Prac
tically all the planks the administration
desires to he adopted have been corn
p!eted.
The platform's features will he "peace.
plenty, and preparedness." Prosperity
under the Democratic administration will
be attributed to party policies, and it
will be denied that credit belongs to the
war.
Senator William J. Stone, of Missouri,
chairman of the Senate Committee on
Foreign Relations, will be chairman of
the platform committee. He is charged
with the duty of riot permitting any
plank to be included that will embarrass
the administration in its foreign affairs.
President Wilson and his political lieu
tenants are said now to be more inter
eted in events at Chicago than in the St.
Louis convention. The Democratic gath
ering's program already has been pre
pared at the White House and nothing
unexpected will happen in St. Louis. it
the administration can prevent it.
The administration is said to hope
for another split In the Republican
partir, and some officials asserted their
helief today that (-1. Roosevelt will
head the Progressive ticket if Justice
Hughes is nomInat-d.
The report that either Presidential
Secretary Tumulty or Postmaster Gen
eral Burleson would he made chair
man of the Democratic National Com
mitte was denied semi-officially. Mr.
Tumuley denied it specifically, so far
as he was concerned.
The administration will not be a
party to any effort to put Vice Presi
dent Marshall aside for another run
ning mate. The opposition to the Vice
President has practically ceased. Dem
ocratic leaders are not seeking friction.
LODGE LIKELY TO HEAD
RESOLUTIONS COMMITTEE
(By Sun News Service.)
Chicago, June 5.--Senator Henry Ca
bot Lodge, of Massachusetts, who prob
ably will, be chairman of the resolu
tions committee that will draft the
Republican platform, arrived here to
day and immediately entered upon a
conference with George Perkins. The
question of the platform was dis
cussed.
It is the expectation now that Col.
Roosevelt will be consulted in great
detail in regard to the platform dec
larations and that they will be made
the chief basis of bringing the two
parties together.
It is understood that one tentative
draft of the platform prepared by Dr.
Nicholas Murray Butler already has
been submitted to Mr. Perkins, who
will consult Col. Roosevelt.
AUTO MERGER PLAS PUSHED.
Syndicate Being Orgaised to Un
derwrite Company's Shares.
New York. June L-Further progress
was made today on tie 2O000,000 motor
and automobile accessory combination
to be headed by John N. Willy. and to
include the Witlye-Overland Company,
Chalmers Motor Company, Hudson Motor
Company, the Auto Lite Company, and
probably the Flak Tire.
After a conference today, one of the
principale declared the syndicate being
organise to underwrite the shares of the
new company would be William Salomon
& Co.. Dominick & Dominick, 3. 5. Bache
& Co., and W. W. Laird & Co., of Wil
mington, Del.
Consul to Mexico Returna.
Clement Edwards, United State. Con
miii at Acapulco, Mexico, has left hia poet
ad returned to the United States. Al
though the reason for his action baa not
been given by Mr. Edwards, officials at
the State Department belie,. it was due
to rielng hoetility toward Amiericans in
the Acapuloo district.
ti~mar and . asa nu -~
World's First Woman's Party
Opens Its Initial Convention
To Fight Foes of Suffrage
(By the San News Service.) "The question.' said Mrs 0 H P Bel
Chicago, June 5.-The voting women ofi mont. in reading the call for the conven
twelve States, encouraged by delegationsI tiott "is how much longer before women
from nearly every other State in thelehall have the vote. The question is,
Union, who crowded the orchestra and* are women able to use the vote and the
balconies of the Blackstone Theater, met power that it gives for the defense and
in convention tonight to form the na- welfare of all women, as men have used
tional woman's party to utilize the the vote in the interests of all men. Thrv
woman's vote in the twelve States to have the Power to do it. The only wies
secure the ballot for their sisters. tin is whether they have the will to do
The party started off with all the blare It."
and bizarre effects of a regular party The Congressional Ion leaders, un
convention. It may have been accidental der whose auspices the women's Patty
that the band in the orchestra pit struck convention was called. sod the leaders
up "Hall, Hall, the Gang's All Here" and of the rival suffrage body, the national
then swung into "There'll Be a Hot Time Aterian Women Suffrage Associati(n.
In the Old Town Tonight" just before the who open a convention tomorrow too, at
gavel fell, most got together this afternoon, hut an
The permaneint organization of theexpected confernce that was all ar
party was completed tonight and tomor- ranged. failed to take place and a united
row the platform committee will present! front to the Republican and Progressive
for the approval of the women votersparties seemed unlikely tonight.
the first platform of the firt woman's Other speeches ere made at the con
party in the world. It will pledge about
4.000,W00 voting women to withhold their ventlon by Mrs. Blatch. Miss Maude
jupport from candidates whose party does Younger, of California. temporary chair
not promise to work for the Federal man; Siss Anne Martin. permanent chair
amendment, as well as pledge them to man: Mrs. Ida Finny Mackrille. of Call
discard party affiliatio: s of their own
until all the women of the country se- fornia. and Miss Lucy Burns, of Wash
cure then rrieilege of otinga it tgtonh
G. 0. P. Leaders, In Disgust,
Refuse to Seat D. C. Men
437 the Sun News Sev'vle p The comnit ges fed a motion today
Chicago, June 5.-The national Re- l reopen certaln Oklahoma cases whsh
pulican conmmittee. today sitting on on- ee "ned last Satrda . This action
tested seats, declined to place the names Is a xi,-tcr for rook i. Hitchcock's
of any of the contestants from the Ijis- tillowes. who ill ain a emiber of
trict of Columbia on the temporary roll. he national coionaittee fron lOklahoma,
Three sets of delegates appeared from and a few additionul Hughes delegates.
the District of Coumbia to pead for! 'de wuhes men now aice a mnajority
the privilege of being plac ed on the roll. of Oklahoma.
and the committee listened for some In the Texa contests. the delegation
lime to charges and counter-charges of, hldicng the cectificate of el tn. known
intimidation and fraud. atd finally ir. s the McGregor ntiot, was seated.
diguat voted to 'Ida~- the names of! k ajorit tg them are for lighes. with
none of the proffered delegates on th Some x uppopt t for Root and 'Burton. In
list. The several contestants will now the Ric hiond. Va., district, J. W. Brady,
apply to the Rredentials committe e, an
p a r t i e te m d u l k e y t n g t
later to the convention, if necessar, wo held the Mertificate, Mas seated Ife
Y ne enrolled w o e for "oenator Wcks h
President's Closing Order
Will Add 20,000 Marchers
Wtlliami F C4udo hatrman of the adpreena e arl ua I ad an
preparedness parade conmmittee, last unisuccessful effort to have the House
night declared that the action of Pres- 'adopt a Joint resolution empowering
ident Wilson in deciding to tsue an the Commissioners to make certain
executive order closing all government police regulations for the parade. nMr.
departments in the District will add Carlin moved that the resolution be
at least 2Jn000 marchers to the de- rtaken p under unanimous consent.
monstration on June 14. on-ut Iepreslitative Warret Worth
Mr. Gude pointed out that there are I Baile of PennFylvania. objected,
thosands of government clerks who which killed the motion.
have been eager to Join the units or- Holiday Resolution Vain,
ganized in their respective depart- atn Mr. Baily's agtion. Repre
ments. but who kfiew that they woutd . etty .ali rgre ta ie
be too late to take part If the offices less to offer the Joiwt r-lution ak
did not close until noon. I the day of tre porde a legal
President Wilson will sign the exe- holiday in the District. ater in the
cutive order this morning. This an- afternoon, however, the announcement
nouncement was made by the White i
House late yesterday afternoon, after: COtN'E oNf PAGE TREE.
Grecian Prince Engaged to
Mrs. Leeds, American Heiress
(Bly the International Newsa Service.) declarrd she Posses.sed ninety.-elght of the
London, June .-The engagement f hundrd essetial Points of beauty.
Prince Christophoros, a member o t Several weeks ago it was announced
reigning family of Greece, to Mrs. Wilt that . Leeds had leased the hand.
lam B. Leeds. widow of the American tin- sotest and newest among Monte Carlo
plate millionaire, n reported. The prince. thomes, Villa Primavera on the Mi-Cor.
who is now in this city, is 2 Years Old, niche, for the summer. It is almost a
It is said the engagement Io against the conclusion that the American heiress and
wishes of his family'. her debonair young prince will spend
their honeymoon in the magnificent mar
Since the death of her husband in 190& ble palace overlooking the Medad.
whetn site inherited 314.00000w Mrs. Leeds By the marrtiage Mrs. Leeds will out
has been reported on many engagements. rank any other American wonan mear
Mrs. Leeds is the daughter of the late tied to a title. She will become a cousin
illiam C. Stewart, a Cleveland million- to Ring George of England and also to
irep She has been courted and idolized Victoria of Spain. The prince's sister
in-law, the Queen of Greece, Is a sister
by the marriageable title-holders in to the German Emperor.
Europe. Mrs. Leeds Is noted for her or or the past several Years Mrs. Leeds
beautr Helleu the famous artist, onceRhas made her home In London,
J. Ogden Armour Cortelyou Will
Booms Roosevelt Work for Colonel
(havhe beesnageto jontes unrite (r- Holy e Soltion evain,)
Cgage Jne their Oespctv Armurinart NOtinr ayr. ly's actine.- ere
sttett toa tae part forh Rofficeslts chmpon hasfere the i eldtior Cok
fi ot Prese untir nron. sad: Rosete dy o this pade Chicagao
Pridenforte olonewil fosidnth exe- tohldirecn the Dbtte trget thee
cuse thrder is mistaing. his poiinatronhwerhenoucm t
noncemenwa, mreadess, ahe hte p_-.n o oiaeRosvl ei
oue latel iysesra afternon, WeknwererCoTEDyoNuAG.HRE
whreci san hsmc Prinnc e sen atedcsaCl oosvl
Mrs.in i he oieds Amer ero Imcoaanda wenressef
wilBg throInteraio ofw prseitye declaredse Hillsestred niner-eho h
thatc CIlstooos afte bro the Severtht asallwe, aotwsanone
ren fis ove Greecei, in Ms opiion that Mr.beneh thse slesedrthechand
Isa B.ves wmportn fof the Acntinr- aomes Ipantnwestuamons tht ay
aplaeomleonideprted Th pi chme, ni remavren o ather i-Cor
whoisevelti hs hady wise exp ersiodniche, for thMmr. Itlyu whiws amostua
than sany ther mnagemn tis agaunt the cleusntaltAican ineress andhano
has held tfhis ofaily. hnnw he aerdboni then capignc wflr R seelt
tinboher ndaboa,- ete th er h oneymoond in the anfcnt mar
Snce othelvn deathonhrhubnd" 19f8 bltple Poeveaknd thepublian. n
whenshe nherted 4,00,00,vMr.nLed onB the orkg with George wvln out
has en s repre n m anyenagmet. Meyer Willithe Loebrica Gorge mar
amr Leed io "dugherh o the e i toa titehe owilr becomeva cou
hW'llia C., Stew aa Cend million
b he arriageabl titlehoder i ft S
Euoe rs ed i oe forhe
HUGHESLEADERS
ORGANIZE BOOM
AT G.0.P. MEET
Loose Organization Formed
at Chicago-Plans Will Be
Perfected Today.
JURIST STILL IN LEAD
Commands Greatest Number
of Votes But Hasn't Enough
for Nomination.
LODGE NOT TO BACK HUGHES
Massachusetts Senator May Give Sup
port to Roosevelt-Favorite Sons
Are Eliminated.
B, JA.%ES T. MONTAGUE.
(International New* Service.)
hIca 4o. Junc 5.-The outstanding facts
in todays skirmish for the advantage at
the start of the Republican Presidential
ta.,- were these:
There are more votes for Hughes than
for any other candidate, but not enough
to nloilnate t e justice.
In an effort to recruit sufficient dele.
gates to 'In. the Hughes men got to
rether andl effected a loose organization
today.
They will meet again tomerrow. pass
nut badgew and begin to buttonhole dele
gates
They hae given up all disposition to
row among Pte ves Frank Hitchcock
and Gov. Wh~tnian. of New York. made
leas for harmony. Whitman spoke
about ".b words, Hitchcock about 25.
So much for the Hughes hopes. Now
for tie ihe- side of the case.
Senator Borah. of Idaho. who had been
o-tIt d on to come to the conference and
take the :adership. came to Chicago. but
not to the conferenrcc.
Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, of Massa
chusetts. confidentiv counted on to sup
port lughcs after Weeks shall be eltmi
nated. deposited a fly in the Hughes
ointment by declaring thlat he is againsti
Hughes.
May Be for Colonel.
The Hughes people think that this
means lie is for Roosevelt.
They even -Pe in Lodges change of
champions a dark plot on th part of
the Colonel! to 1I-k the Hughes candl
dacy. This they would not put past
either Lodge or the Colonel.
'Meanwhile the favorIte sons have been
eliminated. Fairbanks, the strongest of
them. wIll. it is known. be serenely con
tented with the Vice Presidency. His
friends says that Fairbanks was born
for this offire-that no man in the
universe is so perfectly qualified to fill
it.
Cummins. of lowa. with maiy dele.
gates, has been used merely to mask the
purposes of the State leaders. lie is
out of it.
Burton has failed to rouse any en
thuntasm.
Weeks will disappear after the first
ballot, bar a miracle.
In the event of the failuare of Hughes
to receive the nomination. there is grow
ing possibilty that Warren G. Hardng,
of Ohio, may be selected. Harding Is
highly regarded by all factions. His ad
herents believe that he will be the
strongest man before the country. He
will be temporary chairman, and in the
sounding of the keynote he will have an
opportunity to impress his personality
iupon the delegates.
Progressives Restive.
The Progressives continue restive. Talk
of a third ticket waxes louder. Today
they refused absolutely to appoint any,
committee to confer with the Republi
cans. Only stern restraint on the part
of their leaders keeps them from nomi
nating Roosevelt and hastening home.
This attitude the Old Guard leaders
regard as a bluff. Nevertheless there is'
a real fear of a third ticket, and this fear
will continue Roosevelt as a possibility
right up to the hour of the balloting.
Thus far the full effort of the Roose
velt people has been to put Hughes out
of the running.
The Hughes people got together at the
request of former Senator Charles V.
Fulton, chairman of the Oregon delega
tion.
The States represented were New York,
Maryland, Vermont, Washington. Georgia,
Kentucky, hiissouri ard Alabama, eight
in all.
IExtraordinary efforts had been made by
all the leaders to be able to electrify the
meeting by some clarion call from Jus
tice Hughes, but these efforts met with
great unsuccess.
Sinn Fein Women Set Free.
London, June 5-Five women prison
ers, who were arrested in connection with
the Sinn Fein uprising, were released
from the Mount Joy prison. Two of themn
were Miss Gifford, a sister of Mrs. .lo
seph Plunkett, and Mrs. Thomas Mac
Donagh.
Lincoln Beaches Liverpool.
IverPool, June 5.-Ignatius T. T. Lini
coln. self-confessed German spy and
former member of Parliament. who was
arrested in the United States on a for
gery charge, arrived here today from
New' Yngk-ar c..a.- of an4..a v...
"Why in H- Don't They
Pick Me?" Asks Cannon
Chicago, June 5. - "Uncle
Joe" Cannon was a visitor in
the Republican National Com
inittee rooms today.
"Who', going to be the
nominee?" he was asked.
"Uncle Toe" took off his
hat. His eves twinkled. He
threw out his chest, then said:
"If the Republican party
wants a4 good, safe man; a
man who will w in: a man who
is the lest for the countrv
why in hell don't they take
me?"
WMOOSE ENVOYS
MAY STAMPEDE
rogressive Delegates Say
They Will Have Roosevelt
and Nobody Else.
2OMMITTEE SENTIMENT IS
AGAINST PUSHING PARLEYS
)erkins. However. Will Try to Hold
Delegates in Leash Until Latter
Part of Week.
(By the Man News Servlee.l
Chicago. June E--Without a word from
rheadore Roosevelt himself. i is going
o be next to Impossible for Gbeorge W.
Perkins and his sides in this situation to
lontrol the Bull Moose convention.
The delegates to this convention began
tiriving by the h undreds today. All
lecked out with Roosevelt hadges and
,uttons. these delegates. the same type
hat came forth in 191M are saying they
mill take Roosevelt or nobody, and many
)f them are actually suspi'ious of Mr
Perkins and the men who are strivlng to
hold them In check.
The me-n from the East appear to be as
rabid as the men from the Sout and
West. They have come to hold a Roose
velt convention. and they don't want any
tther kind
There appears to he no such thing as
control by any leaders among themr They
have only one leader, and he is In Oyster
Bay. Judging from their talk they will
take no orders from a vicerov i non
nate anyone but their idol.
Mergser Not Pressed.
This was the situation -onfrori t.
Perkins, Horace Wi!kinson. Wdltam
Hamlin Childs., and p'en of tthe r-oIr
headed ty pe when the Progresstve nation
al committee r- this morning
What happened at this mepting may
he summed up th-s:
I. A proposal that the committe. ap
point a conferenc cornmittee to meet
with the Republi--ans was not pressed
her'ause it became apparent that sent!.
menIt in tie committee was aga~nst it,
following speeches b Er-:m Johnson.
Victor 1iirdock and Bair-- Calll y.
An a%%re-mt wa> rea. edi
transact rothing but rout-ne bnsiness
in the Bull Moose convent:-n on Wed
nesday and Thursday. to g;ve a clance
for informal conferences tetween the
leaders to clear ip the sut:;1->n, an-i
thould the.sp fall of their purpose,. to
leave matters to the convention itself.
3. A declaration that tie conrittee
sttlt adhered to its January statement,
refusing to surrender the principles
for which Progressives had fought, and
pledging loyalty only to a leader
cnown to stand for them and able to
put them through.
Will Print Appea.
4. A decision to publish in the form
of page advertisements in the papers
of Wednesday morning an appeal to
the Republican delegate to take Theo
iore Roosevelt. and giving reasons whv
he should be their choice.
Railroad Men Confer.
New York, June 5.-A conference be
tween railroad heads and tie -aders of
the four big railroad brotherhoods w as
tield today. They discussed the demands
of the railroad employes for an eicht
hour day and time and a half for over
time.
German Marines Reach Denmark.
Berlin (wireless, via Bayv-ile. June 5
Three Gertman marines have arrived at
rarhus. Denmark. and with the per
rnission of the Danish authorities have
been sent horne by the German coneul at
that point.
The Washington Hera:
Donations For Pre
Here is an opportunity for yotu
paredness parade Jt-ne 14 the bigges
any city.
Fill out the bisnk below and ma
Washington Herald, together with
will be acknowledged and forward
treasurer of the committee in chargi
LI .....................
of .....................
enclose $.......to he
IWashington's preparedness
HUGHES REVEALS
HIS IDEAS ON
PREPAREDNESS
Declares America Must Be
"United, Strong and
Efficient."
TALKS AT GIRLS' SCHOOL
Justice Says Flag Means
"America First" and "Un
divided Allegiance."
HIS SPEECH WAS UNHERALDED
Promised Daughter in October to Ad
dress National Cathedral
Pupils.
For 11-- firet time since attention
ha.s "e r.1 - 'n d upon him as a po -
2, Prepdeit141 I and:datea. Assoclate
J ur H ugh* yesterday disclosed
attitude rn the question of pro
pa rdne.e.
The -prech w a made at the exer.
rises of the graduating class of the
Nat:ona! Cathedral School. where his
daughter is a pup:1
In present ng the flag Justice
Hughe, ea;C:
"It means Amerin firsts it moan an
undliide.d allegiance. It means Amer
lca Imlted, strong and efficient. equait
to her taaks. It means that ae can
not he saved hy the valor and desv
tion of year aseeatern that to emeb
geseratlen come its patriset dutyl
and that upe. ye~r wiling-eas to ame
riftee and endure. as these begtre ye
hate sacrifeed and endured, resft the
natieal hope."
.ustre Hughes' appearance at the
annual flag day ceremony of the Cath
edral School was almost unherlded
and almost escaped attention except on
the part of the students ajnd their
friends.
Justice Hughes' daughter is a aneaer
of the graduating class and last October.
before there had been tneb dIsonaeon of
:he possibility of bhe nomata. he con
sented to make the ptessetjs of the
flag
rn this happy ocasion Justice Hugtes
sald: "We meet to meatre and reward
a, MIevemer t.
"Peculiarly is 1! neceasary for us to
reAlize the need of thorough. well-di
re-ted training. You cannot expect to
tmake cfiert men and women out of
the :nostrur-ted and undiscipitned
it is a beauti prlr'e that I am r""
leged to give The.e If not a thread in
it tut oorns self-lndulger-e. weakness.
and rapaltv It is elouerit of or com
mon Interest. outexlgtng al di
vcrge:.- of oinion. and of our common
de'r-y G ven as a pritze t se who
hnve he h:h :est stadnrid4:n, hpp y e: -
for -s t :e -son that int:gr.e and
zta! r Wo ho toi'ther. tlat iscpi
muet arm-npany ernoti'n. al th'at wa
nust rely upon enlightered opinior
1,000 Marines to
Santo Domingo
Additional Re-enforcements
'Sent to Admiral Caper
ton's Aid.
Se -et f the N.v- Daniels yelter
dy ordr-d I . rarines f-om Paatte
.0't ports i Sarto Domingo. where
Air, r;can liv and property are threat
r-ed by a- - of revoluttoriate
The tares W px ro to New 'ri:efta
al take passage on the transport Hin
r-ck. joining the force alreil c tat
vesei '.ith the arrival < t i-- r# --
fo nnts. Rear .'dmia: ('porr, n tm.2
han ,- ma:rinces in Santo Do:min;o ati
Ht. MarTmee have been la-ded at
i-anto Dom-irgo City. 'Monte Cr-'o ar-I
'rta Plata
Tne Navy Department has shed A,
m:ral Capertorn for a more i--t te le
Port of the fight at Puerta Plata on Iay
Z1. :n whlich Capt. Hrbrt J. Hirshmnger
was k.1le1. Reports received said lie
death occurred after a two hours' fight
Naval officials are certain there was a
heavy death to1 a.mong the Hattlan re'
olutionists.
Ld Will Receive
paredness Parade Fund
to aid in making Washington's pre
and most 'pectacular yet staged by
I it to The Preparedness Editor. The
your contribution, and the donation
ed promptly to Rudolph Kauffman,
lp defray the expenses ot
parnae
