.-?
r
i-v.
n
NIGHT
EXTRA
FINANCIAL EDITION
M
jcxstnmn
ffieojer
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. II. WO. 228
rmiiADEIiPillA, TUESDAY, JUJOJ 0, 1J)1.
Oortmcnr, loin, st tiii PoeUo I.imii Courixt,
pjriob oisusoisirr
KITCHENER OF KHARTOUM
LOST ON BRITISH CRUISER
STAFF GOES DOWN WITH
WAR SECRETARY BOUND
ON MISSION TO-THE CZAR
Admiralty Announces Destruction of
Hampshire With All on Board Off
Orkneys War Council Meets.
Britain Mourns Loss
Gloom in England at Loss of Supreme Chieftain Following
Close on Terrible Casualties in Battle of
Jutland LloydrGeorge Suggested
to Take Portfolio
LONDON, June G.
Earl Kitchener, Minister of War, with his entire staff, was lost
when the cruiser Hanipshirc was sunk north of Scotland and west
of the Orkneys at 8 o'clock last night.
The announcement of the loss of Marshal Kitchener and his
staff was made officially by the Admiralty today.
Lord Kitchener and his staff were on their way to Russia on
the Hampshire when it was sunk by a mine or a German submarine.
It was stated that Lord Kitchener's trip to Petrograd was a
"ppecial mission." It is believed to have related to the Russian
offensive on the east front as an offset to the pressure being exerted
by tho Teutons against the Italians and against the French at
Verdun.
fy ... Hope lhat Lord Kitchener escaped death was virtually aban-
' doned this evening. Search has been made along the Scottish coast
ever since the Hampshire was destroyed, but no trace of Lord
Kitchener was found.
REPORT OP THE ADMIRALTY
Official announcejnenti of the, destructidn of the Hampshire was ' made by
th British Admiralty, as follows: t , -
"The .Admiraltyreports with deep regret that the ship Hampshiffi.wthj
Ird,'in'0cer'a'nd'hTs'stafrrnt)oard was sunk iast'nighrafiout' 8' o'clocKofT The
O.'krty Inlands either, by a mine or a torpedo. .
'F,our )joats were seen by observers on the, shore to leave the ship.
"Hcnvy seas, were running, but patrol vessels and destroyers at once pro
ceeded to the scene.
"At thp same time a party, vas sent along the shores to search for bodies.
Only a capsized boat hat beeiTfdund up to thetime of the issuance of the report.
''TJie- whole shore has been searched from the seaward, but it is greatly
feared tiUA. there is little hope for any survivors. No report has yet been re
wived ixom the search party on shore. The' Hampshire was proceeding to
Russia."
OFFICIAL REPORT FOLLOWS RUMOR
The report to 'the Admiralty of the loss of the. Hampshire was made to
thoi Admiralty by Admiral Sir John Jellicoe, commander of the British grand
fleet
Early in the day it was rumored that the War Secretary and his staff
were lost on, one of- the ships that went down in the naval battle of Jutland last
Wednesdi The Admiralty report- dispelled this rumor.-
Tub main br,se of the British high seas fleot is supposed to be in the neigh
borhuoa of the islands north of Scotland. For this reason, it was believed
Lord Kitchener, with his staff, went to the Orkney Islands for the purpose of
reviewing the battle fleet after the Jutland engagement.
It was also considered probable that he was engaged in conference with
otricr high officials regarding the program to be followed to meet any new
jtnuve from Germany. As Minister of War, Kitchener was responsible for the
detet.si. of England in the event of any attefoipt at invasion.
Despite his years, three score and, more, Lord Kitchener was in the prima
or hit vigor and was a tower of strength in the grand war, councils that were
held n. Porls.
nt u-or as wuid.of the loss of the Hampshire was received here a meeting
of t5.t va Council was held." Sir William Robertson, chief, of the General
Staff, li no in London.
OKUMA, JAPAN'S PREMIER,
REPORTED ASSASSINATED
SHANGHAI, June C
heen assassinated.
Premier Okuma of Japan is reported to have
. Should the report of the assassination of Count Okuma prove true, the
Mikado's empire will have lost one of the most remarkable men of that lino
of statesmen who did so much for the development of their country.
Count Shlgcnobu Okuma became
Prime Minister in the spring of 1914,
shortly after the resignation of
Count Yamamoto's Cabinet, following
tho notorious naval graft scandal of
that year.
Count Okuma was born in 1838.
He was Finance Minister from 1869
to 1881, Foreign Minister from 1888
to 1889, Minister of Agriculture and
Commerce from 1896 to 1897 and
Prime Minister and Foreign Minister
for the first time in 1898.
Okuma was the founder nnd former
leader of the Progressive party in
Japan, a man of great wealth and
financial backer of Wascda Uni
versity. Count Okuma was spoken of ns
the "Alexander Hamilton of Japan."
Ho was regarded as a warm friend of
the United States.
The Count was a cripple, having
lost a leg in an attempt to assassinate
him 25 years ago.
SSSSIiJ
Zigz&iz&izm&mss&sz
COUNT OKUMA
YUAN SHI-KAI DIES;
CHINA'S PRESIDENT
PARALYSIS VICTIM
Known as One of Strongest
Figures in the Nation's
History '
i
"i'j ' )
AT ,THE HELM, SINCE 19X3
.X
CROWDS SURROUND WAR OFFICE;
LLOYD-GEORGE MAY GET PORTFOLIO
LONDON. June 6, Public consternation
and an.azement today followed the an
nouncement that Iord Kitchener and his
xtM were, sent to their death by a mine or
torpedo, which blew up the cruiser Hamp
hire off the Orkney Islands.
Crowds gat holed m Whitehall, about the
War Office, Beeulr.g- further details, fol
owij.tr the formal announcement of the
loss of "K. of K."
The flag on the War Office was at half,
mast and the blinds' of the offices were
drawn. The crowd received no, further In
formation, and the air of the pfficlals In
dlcated clearly that they held no hope that
kitchener might have escaped.
Speculation as to the War Secretary's
puocpjioc Is already heard on tho street
and In tile lobbies of Parliament. The name
,"t pavtd L,loyd-Qeorge, wartime Chancellor
ft the Exchequer, later Minister of Muni
tions an.d recently officially designed as.
' Pacificator of Ireland, Is most prominently
mentioned li. connection with the vacant
portfolio.
Surprise was expressed that a cruiser,
waring the. Minuter of War, could have
been destroyed by a torpedq or a mine.
Jt is probatle that ttlft question whether
the, cruiser haxi an escort and whether she
was provided with any protection against
submarines, wlUbe put directly to the Qov
eminent
Many comments were heard In the crowd
about the War Office. Many remarked
that It "was lucky It didn't happen before
conscription became effective.' They re
ferred to the gieat power of Kitchener's
name In ftlmulatlng; voluntary recruitings
LONDON, June 6. The British cruiser
Hampshire, which .was sunk while, proceed,
la fromf England to Russia with Ut$
JYUCnener. the War Kccratarv nnrt hla
Staff on board, carried a complement of
jsj men, not counting her distinguished
.-s.... ,t M not jtft0WM wmtmr -no
Jvofl itmti by a mine or torpedo, but the
ji that u was destroyed while near
he Orkney Islands, t the extreme north-
F i 1 W"na. waicaws that site waa
lacked ty a. cienuaa submarine, unW
she accidentally ran Into a mine which
storms had caused to break loose,
The Hampshire displaced 10,850 tons and
was In the same class with the Devonshire,
Argyll, Roxburgh, Antrim and Carnarvon,
Hhe was 450 feet long and 68 feet In the
beam and was capable of 22 knots.
The lost cruise was protected with Krupp
armor and was equipped with four 7.5-lnch
guns, singly In turrets fore and aft: six C.
Inch guns. In case metal ; soma 2-Inch gur.s,
22 3-pounders, machine guns and torpedo
tubes, .
The Hampshire was built nt Elswlck and
had been In commission about fifteen years.
She was commanded by Captain Herbert
W. Savllle.
LONPON, June C The personnel of the
staff accompanying Field Marshal Kitchener
on his Russian mission has been announced.
It Included not only military attaches
but one 'diplomat conversant with Russia
and the Balkans.
Accompanying Lord Kitchener as .his
staff were Hugh James O'Belrne, former
Counselor.- of the British Embassy In
Petrograd and former British Minister to
Bulgaria; O. A. Fitzgerald, the private
Military Secretary, to lord Kitchener;
Brigadier General EllersluCw and Sir
Frederick Donaldson.
KITCHENER'S BOAT STRUCK
IN DAYLIGHT PESMTE HOUR
-At this time of the year It Is clear day.
light In the latitude of the Orkney Islands
at '8 o'clock ahd for two hours later. In
fact, the Orkneys are so far north that
durlngr the last days of June there Is a
falut streak of light clearly visible from
shortly' before midnight Sunrise is about
two to three hours later.
DISASTER CONFIRMED
IN CABLE TO BRITISH EMBASSY
WASHINGTON'. Juno . Thft BrltUh
Embassy today received the following l
CoaUaa4 a Fa& Jrt t. Cclttasu Oat
m ... t tit" r ..$ ttasstvwHy-
m" - iiiHt J it Iff i
YUAN SHI-KAI
WASHINGTON, June 6. Paul S.
Reisnch American Minister to China,
today officially reported to he State
Department that President Yuan ShL
Kai, o! China, was dead. This came in
a long" code dispatch not yet decoded,
but which is believed to contain a com
plete account of the Chinese ruler's
death.
The Chinese legation has received no
official word concprning the death.
SHANGHAI. June 8. Yuan ShI-Kal,
President of the republlo of China, died In
Peking Monday.
He had been executive head of the
Continued on Vn Kour, Co'umn Three
BRUMBAUGH MEN'S
CHICAGO CAUCUS
CALLED "FIASCO"
Only 20 of the 76 Delegates
to the Convention Were
Present -
EFFORT FOR. SOLID VOTE
'""WBy EDMUND, (3. TAYLOR ,
vlr EyrWiifl Lt'datr ptaff Cprrtitontltnt
' CHICAGO, '- Juno . 6. The tumultuous
'situation existing In the Pennsylvania dele
gation to the Ilepuhltcan National Con
vention reflects the spirit that la hanging
over the' ontlro pro-convention gathering
of delegates from nil of the other states,
with few exceptions.
Jockeying nnd maneuvering among the
Keystone State delcgntes Is being watched
closely by the leaders of tho score of fac
tions which are striving to get the upper
hnnd, as they regard tho situation In the
Pennsylvania delegation us a weather vane
that points to the final solution of the tre
mendous problem that confronts both the
Old Guard. Republican leaders and the Pro
gressives. Developments of Inst night Bhow that tho
Pennsylvania delegation Is split wide open.
Strenuous efforts to cement the l'enrose
McNtchol and the Drumbaugh-Vnre-Magee
factions are scheduled for today, ns a last
hour effort to line up n solid delegation of
76 votes that will give Pennsylvania un
Important place Jn the final maneuvers
that -will precede the naming of a Hepub
llcan candidate for President.
PH.VItOSH FORCES GAIN.
It is admitted on all sides today that the
caucus of Ilrumbaugh delegates held last
night at the Auditorium Hotel was a fiasco.
It showed Governor Brumbaugh's actual
strength, but at tho same time tho Penrose
forces gained a decided advantage through
the fact that only 20 of the 78 delegates at
tended. At the headquarters of the numer
ous presidential candidates there was a
consensus of opinion today, however, that
tho Penrose wing of the delegation lost this
advantage when Senator Oliver, of Pitts
burgh, "spilled the beans" as he Issued a
lengthy statement telling what the Penn
sylvania delegation wl do If the fight
really does narrow down In the centre to a
contest between Theodore Hooseyelt and
Justice Hughes for the nomination.
Senator Oliver declared that Pennsylva
nia would give SO votes to Hughes. He
neglected to Bay on what ballot, however,
and In making the statement he did. not
"cover up" on the previous announcement
made ut Penrose headquarters that the
senior Senator would vote for Philander C.
Knox on the first ballot,
OLIVER'S STATEMENT.
Senator Oliver's statement was given out
after a day of conferring by both factions
In the delegation. He said;
I think Justice Hughes will undoubt
edly have a majority of the Pennsyl
. vanla delegates. The question agltat-
Contlnued on rate Tno, Column Three
Evening Ledger Circulation
For Six Months) ,
Daily Average for December . . . 96,785
Daily Average for January . . 99,214
Daily Average for February, 104,115
Daily Average for March, 110,721
Daily Average for April, 117,310
Daily Average for May, 122,011
The foregoing figures represent actual net paid circula
tion of this newspaper, eliminqting all returned and free
copies.
QUICK NEWS
BRITISH DENY LOSS OF SUBMARINE IN' BATTLE
LONDON, June G. The British Admirnlty this evening officially
denied the German claim that iv British submnrinc tons sunk In the
Skngcrmk sea battle of Wednesday.
CROWDS RUSH FOR CONVENTION TICKETS
CHICAGO, June 0. Crowds that took ninny policemen to control
surged, tho offices of Scrgeant-at-Arms William Stone at the Coliseum
trying to get convention tickets. The demnnd for tickets lias driven
many a National Committeeman into hiding to avoid "folks from
home."
BELMONT RACING RESULTS
First race, 3-year-olds, $000 added, 6 furlongs White Hackle,
US, J. MoTaggart, 4 to 5, 1 to 3 and out, won; Miss Puzzle, 110,-?Mc-Dermott,
4 to 2, even nnd 0 to 20, second; Marse Henry, 120, Garner,
5 to 1, 7 to 2 and 3 to 5, thrid. Time, 1:12 3-5.
MONTREAL RACING RESULTS
first race purse $500, 3-year-olds and up, selling, foaled in Can
ada 7 furlongs Bavenscourt, 100, Parrington, $3.40, $4.10 and
$3 20, won; Old Pop, 06, Forehand, f?10.10 and ?5.20, second; Bed
Tost, 104, Ward, $8.20, third. Time, 1:30 1-5.
l. , '-),
HAYTIAN REBEL CHIEFS KILLED WHILE FLEEING
"WASHINGTON, Juno 6. In - desperate attempt to efecape after their
followers were overtaken and surrounded nt Fonds Verraetts by American marines
and gendarmes, the rebel chiefs Melcllus, and Codlo with nine of their band
wore killed, according-to advices to the Navy Department today from . Port-au-Prince,
Ilaytl. , ,
GREECE PROTESTS TO ALLIES AGAINST MARTIAL LAW
ATHENS, June -6. Greece formally protested to the Allies today' against tho
declaration of martial law nt.'Kalonlca. . , ....
"'-- ARKANSAS TORNADO KILLSj80; 1000 INJURED
MEMPHIS, Tenn'.j June 6. At least 80 persons )ost their 'lives, '1000 were
Injured and property damage to the extent .of $l,5OO,00Q resulted from last night's
ornado, In Arkansas, according to reports reaching here today. ,
SHOWMAN, BITTEN BY RATTLER, SAVED BY ANTITOXIN
Several thousand units of rattlesnake antitoxin have saved the life of Martin
Kane, an attendant connected with the Buffalo Bill show, who was, bltte.n by a
rattler while the show was here. Kanu was pronounced out of danger today nt tho
Hahnemann Hospital. The snake bit him on the Index finger of his left. hand.
Kane's left arm swelled to threo times Its normal size. Prompt treatment with tho
antitoxin, which Is imported from South America, was the factor In saving his' life.
ALLIES LOST 47 PLANES IN MAY, SAYS BERLIN
BERLIN, Juno 6. "Tho enemy in aerial combats, In .May, lost 36 aeroplanes,"
says nn official statement. "In nddltlon. nine were shot down from earth and two
lunded within our lines, mal.ing the total enemy losses 47 aeroplanes. We lost 11
in aerial combats and five which did not return, a tbtal of 16.
GERMANY CALLS LANDSTURM LIVING ABROAD
LONDON, June 6. A neuter dispatch from Zurich says members of thw-German
Iiandsturm, class of 1917, who nro living abroad, have been ordered homo Immediately.
TROLLEYMEN TO MAKE FINAL DEMAND ON P..R. T.
An "ultimatum" has beep sent to Thomas E. Mitten, president of the Phila
delphia IUpld Transit Company, by a faction of discontented employes, notifying
him that, In splto o hla refusal to discuss employes' grievances with tho Union
Committee, a committee will call upon him tomorrow afternoon at 2 o'clock and that
a strike will follow If he refuses to be seen. In reply Mitten reiterated his refusal to
deal with any committee except the co-operatlvo committee elected by a majority of
the employes. More than 75 per cent, of the employes elected the cooperative com
mittee, he said.
STOWAWAYS LEAP FROM WHARF; CAUGHT
Two negro stowaways are confined In the Immigration station nt Gloucester
today after a battle with customs officers and other Government officials. The men,
who described themselves an Joseph Thompson and Albert Ma'xis, Jumped from a
Norwegian steamship from Jamaica Just after the vessel docked yesterday at the
Chestnut street wharf. They were seen by seamen and pursued. The men .admitted
they hid themselves among cocoanuts, bananas nnd other fruits.
SAILOR FALLS INTO SHIP'S OIL TANK; DROWNS
A sailor on the American tank steamship Atlantic Sun was drowned In an oil
tank on board, according to Captain Ehlrlan, The sailor, Domingo Lobo, started to
tu take the covering off tho hatch of the vessel and fell In, ,
NAVY'S SUBMARINE ScTlOOL OPENS JULY 1
WASHINGTON, June 6. A school for the Instruction of American naval officers
In both the theoretical and practical working of submarines will be established ut
New London, Conn., on July 1, under orders signed by Secretary Daniels. On that
date the first class of officers will report at the school to take a six months' course,
upon the termination of which another class will be appointed. The submarine school
Is being established at the suggestion of Bear Admiral Albert W, Grant, commander
of the submarine flotilla, uml has the approval of Hear Admiral Benson, chief of
naval operations, and of Bear Admiral Griffin, chief of (he Bureau of Steam En
gineering, .
T -
BELGIAN FORCES ADVANCE IN GERMAN EAST AFRICA
LONDON. June 6. The following official statement was Issued ')Mt night by
the Belgian War Office at Havre: "The. situation In East Africa a ! end of
May was that our left wing was on the River Kagera nnd our centre had crossed
the river at Akajaru. East of Iruvera our right wing Is approacrlng Usumura.
The enemy Is retiring In a demoralized condition." The Belgian force Is advancing
Into northwest German East Africa,
- 'i "
BREAD "RATIONING SYSTEM" ADOPTED BY HOLLAND
WASHINGTON. June 6. The Government of Holland, says a reporv tn the De
partment of Commerce, has been forced; to adopt a "rationing system" for the control
of consumption of breadstuffs in order to conserve the supply of flour and wheat in
that country.
SUFFRAGE DEFEAT IN IOWA ELECTION INDICATED
DES MOINES. Iowa, June $.- Returns early today from th counties of eastesn
low l yesterday's spcW State-wide election, at which an amendment elvlns the
ballot tq women iws voted, uponf Indicate that suffrage hjja beea beaten,
HUGHES BOOM
SHOWS SIGNS,
OF COLLAPSE
Fairbanks, Burton and
Harding Loom Strong,
Says Samuel G. Blythe
LEADERS IN GOOD MOOD
Desire to Reach Rational and
Sincere Solution of Presi
dency Puzzle
2 to 1 Against Roosevelt?
Betting Takes Dig Slump
NEW YORK, Juno C There was
a sensational slump in Roosevelt
odds in Wall street ycBtcrday. John
M. Shnw, a member of the Stock
Exchange, said that he knew n Wall
street man who is willing to bet $25,
000 to vl2,300 that T. R. would not
bo nominated. The bet was not
covered.
On Saturday Chester .Thompson,
the curb betting commissioner, re
ported that he had placed ?5000 at
even money that Roosevelt would be
nominated. Saturday night, how
ever, tht odds slumped to 5 to 4
against the Colonel.
Thrc wns some Hughes money
placed in Wall street early in the
day nt 12 Vi to 1. Odds on Root were'
quoted nt 3 to 1 nnd 6 to 1. There
was not very much money actually
placed, however.
By SAMUEL G. BLYTHE
Covurlaht. IBIS, bu Hie Central freaa Atco.
CHICAGO, June 6. Diplomatic negotia
tions continue unccasli.gly between the rep
resentatives of tho Old Guard of the Re
publican parly and the representatives pf
tho New Guard of tho Progressive party,
having a slant toward, but not much of a.
bearing on, the final action of the conven
tion that begins tomorrow.
They are perfectly corking negotiations,
ns tho Colonel himself would say, but they
have a certain lack of finality that might
be useful If It could be Imparted, As nego
tiations, they are succesats, being held In
good temper In earnest spirit, and without,
any. greater supply of. ulterior motive than
the occasion demands. .
The only' 'difficulty about t.herrf Is this:
Tho Progressive! negotiations cannot deliver
their convention ajralnst Colonel rtooaevejt.
Otherwise the negotiations are all that'
could be desired.
Meantime tho-Hughes, boom deflated Aa; ?-J
the. escape of the sustaining substance it
were cruel to call It gas has left that boom.
in smaller rotundity than It was before the
inflation of Monday came, but that the
Hughes movement Is again normal, which
mean that the Hughes .movement Is not
moving forward much this morning.
Yesterday there enme a largo arrival of
delegates, and with them came, some
Hughes shouters a. good many In fact
These shouters nnd their tales of the wide
demand for Hughes back home had tho)r
effect on the easily swayed patriots In
Chicago, and Hughes seemed to attain
lead again, It was more apparent than
real. In tact, .when the' day of checking
up was over by those In a position to act
Intelligently as checkers, the fact was
discovered that Hughes, Instead of gaining
strength, had lost.
Two delegations that have "favorite
son" obligations met nnd decided not to
go to Hughes after they had solemnly ful
filled their scant obligations to tht!r
"favorite sons." Intimations of similar
action to be taken came Into the Inner
circle of the Republican management To
day that Inner circle was reasonable cer
tain that.- when the time comes, Mr. Jus
tice Hughes, through tho medium of his
friends, will Cease to be u factor. Thoy
admit there Is still a chance for the nomin
ation of the Justice, but they consider that
chance a very faint one,
PUAN TO CHECK WH-SON.
Sloreover, and hero lb the most signifi
cant thing, there is man in Chicago
representing Justice Hughes with plenary
powers, and If the situation continues as
It now seems likely to continue, there will
not be much left of the Hughes movement
by the time the third ballot; la taken In
that convention. There are several reasons
for this. One Important one la that tfte.
real Progressive leaders, and especially one
very real one. are against Hughes, They
do not want him. and do not think t
likely that their convention will Indorse
Another Important one Is that the re-
I
Continued on r ! Colons gls
THE WEATHER
War clouds are lowering over a naw
sector today. It Isn't In Volhynla or along
the Strlpa ; nor In pessarabla j nor on the
banks of the JJeuse; nor In Dublin; nor
along the Monte Magglo front j nor In any
other foreign quarter. ' It's right here at
home, along the Vlrglnla-Wegt VJrglfcliv
front. The Old Dominion asserts that
It has exhausted "peaceful means' to
compel the Pan Handle Htate to pay that
$13,000,000 debt as ordered by the Supreme
Court three yearsj ago. May we no't now
look for Governor Stuart (Who's Wn. fcy
the way, to denerat "Jeb" Stuart, suh to
call for volunteers to cross the border and
collect that debt? And inay we not leek
for Governor J tat Held to call for volunteers
to repel the Invasion? We may. Tn$n,
again, we, mayn't
At any rate. H'a warm enough to drag
out. your Palm Beach, uniform.
. FQJiECAST
For f(y'faaVfpAto and vieinityPrak'
ably showersaiui thunderstorm -night
dvd tdtwidcwi ttof mufhshtautt
in tcmptmlure; frtah asi and Hfift
cit winds. ..
MS?g?
EOyHD
POOKJJTilOOK Lost Studs .P4'.
sblr ou westbound 43 car, WwM
UIRIZU4M, WUIH- fia4 .vnwmi .
guuai
.
'Jmm
tHhr Let t ? M f tarn M
