THE WEAT!
IKCAST.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
Cloudy to-day; ''Mibwuri. to-morrow J
variable winds!
Highest temperature yesterday, 75! lowest, 59.
Detailed weather, null and iturlnc reports on page 13.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 280.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JUNE G, 1916. CopUiii)ht, 116, by he Sun 1'rtntlng and I'ubltshtno AsoctaUon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
GERMANS LOST
2 MORE SHIPS,
LONDON HEARS1
i mien bur": and Luetzow!
Sunk Off Jutland. British
Survivors Say.
IIRITISIl FLEET SEEN
PURSUING SEYDLITZ
Copenhagen Report Says
the Teuton Cruiser Was
Madly Damaged.
BOTH SIDES STILL
CLAIM THE VICTORY
ffcinl CaMe flnpatcli to Tnx Sls.
I.O.MH1N, June 5. The North
Sea
kutit rtf I.... n.i . , , i
ka'tle of last .Wednesday Is gradually
reohlng Itself Into a battle of words
In t.ie press of both countries. Olllclally
It Hands where It stood yesterday, with
the Hrltlsh Admiralty asserting that the 1
Utnr.ans lost at least eighteen ships, as i
if-.nr.st only fourteen on the Hrltlsh side,
ind the (Jerixin Naval Staff Insisting
that the Kaiser's fleet was reduced by
only thrio big ships and an unnamed i
number of torpedo craft. I
t'norllclally the day brought further
claims, Iwth In Berlin nnd In london, I
of additional losses on the other side, '
and the piesn of both countries Indulged
In equally triumphant accounts based
largely on suppositions and stories of
tun huts. j
Thus the lepoit bi.iaghl here Thy sur
Vhors of British destroi ers that the
German superdreadnought Hlndenburg,
the Kaiser's "fluent," as well a the bat-'
t.e cruiser I.uelzow, was sunk In the (
bittle found general credence among the ,
newspapers. l.es,s positive, but widely ,
published and general)) bellexed, was a ,
lory emanating from Copenhagen that
the Cierm.in battle cruiser Sejdllti, a
ve-scl of ;."i,000 ton and sister ship of
tho DerlTllnger. was s.ghled on the morn
ing after the b.utlo thirls -eight miles,
west of Karo Island, puisued by Hrltlsh
warships. She was in a badly damaged
condition, said the repot t, which was
orlglnallv published In the Copenhagen
ti- . . . j u i mill i.nn.eioi r nuinn jiw ni n
MiWS MIC, VUtll a I'l'Ope Crinrmy defending the Hukowlna. Oalic.a and .ewa.d." said the Justice. "It ' Y'' ,T
t) i -x- , , '"' Volhynla lines are face to face with , , u. M,i,ol of our national unity, cur J O- r. ' 1 II ni ';u' J;:
l(iJ-nii oi.it-vi.-1.- I . r..,i,i. ...,r..i ninimirhi i . i .. . . . i.niiiiiat usidra- I . v. trKiiis alio tile oilier Kouse-
im ion ii, .il l ion M i uuuuiu.i vn... ....... ... . . ve t 1 culcti.tuts hi t hlcairo In t.iet It
' launched by the Itusslans since the war tlon. U tells ou of the struggle for bt.,J(.v,,, , X hat lr V'ortel oil wl o
('ailed DeStniCtiOll ,M'B,in- "l'tnl",n nt 11 "" 'hen the 1,,,-ependence. of union preserved, of l b- , iMthout ..dltle..'l skill villi become
i.ilPLU JISIIULIIUII. main Austrian army on the Trentlno is ,1lv ., , ol,e and liisep-wable ,lo ,(,H(lt.r J ,nmn
Stit, Tidcndc. here argue that It will nave penoimeua tu,-( ceremoni at every eominence-
Thc deslrovcr Arasta, which the (ier- 1 mi Inestimable service for the Allies. 1(.m f the Institution. His speech to
mans claimed they sank In the North I If the Russians succeed in breaking j ,,.iy i8 tM(. r, ,
Fea battle, was towed Into port to-day. I through the Teuton front In the Huko-
The .lestioyer Is considerably damaged, wlna or tJ.illda the consequences wnuM ARKANSAS CYCtONE KILLS 59.
Bhe formed part of a flotilla sent to Hie be disastrous lo the Central l owers In "
Kagei lack Wednesday afternoon to luie many respects. It Is t.eiu-ve.t si en a ii11,111.Ur lli-imrleil
the Hermans. Af.er she had been Hi the I -uccess w ould decide ""'"ania ''""; lre,l
f'ght forty minutes the shell which put 1 veue onxthe side of the Knten e id , ,-,.,,, ,.r, , ,..
ter out of action exploded in her engine . j""!"'!', 'J""" . rt,ut,on ,1TT,K .h-k. Ark., June f, ccord-
tnm. killing five men. In favor of the Allies. , lng to .eports which have reail.ed here
' f, ,. " i'irmsh' 'ihTht ' 'cruise? i caught ' TURKS GAIN IN CAUCASUS. lo-nmiit fifty-nine persons were killed and
n tl a of Herman torpedo craft ln .! property loss and damage to crops of
the Helgoland fight and destroyed tljcm. Hussion IWt Centre Reported pril,llblv jt.tiOO.nOO was done by .1
M.in.1 (lerm.in survivors are being landed irlen Hock 25 Miles. cyclone which swept central Arkansas
I'.'- r!a ..o' 0.;rmra, ,"od.l Constantinoi-i.k,, via London. June r, , thlj nftPrmM, Al llot M four ves
i...li admitted. I The Turkish army operating ''K-'Inf nri. Sported lost. The town of .ludsonla
it - at-s-rted that evidence exists here! t'"" ceutro of the le t wt jii, o the have been destroyed
i"iiik lli.li III.' ii.jiiii.iii ii. v-i a iiiil.t- ,. , .1.. t,.,n
mint into the North Sea was the result other victory over the retreating I us
of pressiite he the bkekade and the sians and drove them back about
s.wi... ..r .i.a.,., ,n,M.... t.. I tv-flve miles, nccordlng to nil olllelal
,11s. ...lent a motor the Oerii.aii
populace and Its efle. ts, as well as to
Hppease the critics of the fleet's In
ictivity l.erio.iii Press Jubilant.
I Heilin a seml-olllclal statement was
j-unl brtathlng throughout Its lines
t ie word victory," asserting that the
(pi man high seas fleet sought, found
rul attacked the Hrltlsh foicos and had
t bcticr of it all tlie way through. It
mpluMzi-d that from first to lata the
Hi it'll were in numerical superloi lly,
the flgme ghen being thirty-tlve to
ttt-iity-n-ieti for tho l.iraer types of
vps.-.-is Tin- statement Is conservative,
' ow.ver, in comi.arisoii with the Jubilant .
ni.'or al utterances thtoughout the
'otla-'liinil. The Joyful note that wa foun(i by the Russians after the Turks
fun e.l a few houn- after the tlrst brief , n(wl hurled them to prevent their cap
Art in i.i ty aiinoutu .-ment hud Increased ture,
in hit i i.in suosiue.i. inougn me ma
jor t ' t.fv.'il experts have toned down
thi- i.ums miido n the first title of ex
cteineni. that the "mastery of the seas
h... I.e. vcested from Hrltalii."
.. i l.lo explanation for the (!er
nn . e ,,,, th tt the dreailrmiiglit War
so ti. wis sunt- in the battle was found
Ii. ie 'o.iisy ... the statement by her I
ior mil. er that one of Inl" propellers
. ker vhru she went Into the
fie ' ..ul Unit as a lesull she was soon
-I 'g in nu almost helpless condition
4 ! i . tetrtlli .-oticentrateil fire. Other
'. ships, howevtr, aided her In mak.
i '. - way out of the heat of battle,
k 1 Is now- safe In port,
Milch Wreckage Washed Ashore,
i-.i'iwhilo strenuous efforts; are being
rc-( i many quarters to provo the Hflt
.1 .lihiuovo the Herman claims.
1 -s liiiit of doing this Is seen In
" nes it ii. Iilng lu re from Denmark
i leportlng lli.it bodies of victims
i. n washed ashore. Scandinavian
( - aiming in port bilng news of
.ge of all kinds scattered In tho
i ! t From the bodies and pieces
hag.-, it Is expected, further Iden
l . ... of losses will be isisslble,
r Hni sb pics l.s Indulging In con
me -Aoiiil.-uient as to w by the llrll
v i ii. tally last Friday li.sued a state
' Mlnili on Ha- fat" of It was an
son of a serlotiH tevirse, while
i I.I' sl.lleineMtH Voiced Mllll llllSO-
l nullity thai tho battle was a
' ' i Tin- Admiralty, on tho other
. t ilii showed Us ri selitliurit of
' in uttered ill soino of llio news
. immediately after the tlrst news
. .ultle. The following slalement
v -1,1.1
I uiii- 01 two uewsp.ipern doilh'.s
.ieii i.nsed i.-gaidiiig the irj
im.,1 .-rih.luii of the H-a ofliceiH
gi) .otnmaiid who look pail in the
in. til
I .Mot be loo ileiuly "laleil that
definite report of the com-
'i)Ii-i in chief was published, or
fuiifpinci vh t'outth I'aic.
RUSSIANS CAPTURE
13,000 AUSTRIANS
IN NEW OFFENSIVE
Violent Infantry Attacks
Score Many Gains on
230 Mile Front.
Sfitnm I'lblt ttmtialrh to Tnr. Si
Lonpon, J im 6. On a front of 250 ,
nillci, from the Hokltno swamns.
not f..r south of i'iti.k. down to ti, ;
Hip point where the borders of Austria
Hungary, HuhhIii and Rumania meet,
the Russians during the Inst twenty
four hours have begun the long ex
pected concentrated Infantry attack
j against the Austro-Hungarlnn linen, on
nttnek thoroughly prepareil for months
nnd Initiated by forty-eight hours of
one of the most violent artillery ava
lanches recorded since the war Ijok.iii.
The net remit of tile tlrst day of tho
new
drive, according to the Petrogr.id
I war Office consist!- in 13.000 prisoners ,
tnken In "Important success achieved in
many sectors " The groat attack Is still
In Its preliminary stage, the Hussion
olllelal nport Indicates, saying that "the
righting Is developing,"
From a statement Issued to-night by
tho Austro-lliingarlan War Office It ap
pears that the lighting Is In full blast
and that llmvetor Francis Joseph s
Ing Into the Italian plain or halting Its
offensive to avert a new Russian In
vasion. The Itusslnn official report on the new
" . ., . ' . ,,, u'
offensive against the Austro-Hungarlan .
lines follows:
Yesterday the fighting extended
from tne rripei mver iu uic uu- ,
manlan frontier.
We achieved Important successes In
many sectors, capturing 13.000 men,
guns and machine guns. The fighting
Is developing.
The Austrian statement with regard to
the operations on the Russian front fol
lows: The attack of the Russian south
western army, expected for a long
time, commenced on the whole front
between the I'ruth and the herd of the
Styr. near Kolki. A great battle de
veloped. Near Okna a bitter struggle com
menced for the possession of our ad
vanced positions.
Northwest of Tarnopol the enemy
penetrated our "trenches nt various
points, but was driven out In a
counter attack.'
On both sides of Koklow, west of
Tarnopol, the Russian attacks broke
down In front of our entanglements.
Near Novo Alexlnlco ami north
west of Dublio the attacks of the
enemy broke down under our fire.
Near Sanow- ami around Olyka stub
Ixirn lights are In progress.
Southeast of I.uck we brought down
an enemy aeroplane.
If the new offensive succeeds only In
forcing the Austrlans to withdraw troops
from thu Italian front military experts .
Turkish stiuemeiu WH.-.I ...-o.., . .
. , .... ... ...
For the nast week
been gaining ground steadily ui this sec
tor, which Is between Krzorutu and Krz-
lngan.
Itusslans M' Turkish Offensive
Will Repulsed.
;ir(.l "'i'f- linpatrh to Tin: Sis
Petkockao, via londoii, June r. The
Turkish offensive in the region of Erzln
gan was repulsed, according to the offi
cial statement Issued by the Russian
War Office,
It Is stated that near Rowanduz, In
xtesnis.tnmla. 100 miles northeast of
.Musgj, ninny Kurds who are fighting i
,vt, jhe Turkish ngular forces were
willed Two mounted guns were also
R. M. SHAW WEDS MODEL.
Once Prosecuted Mnn He .ccmrd
of MmiIIiimt First Wife.
Robert Marsden Shaw, a Isiiiker, of
n iirns.l street, who prosecuted Richard
Darling under nu- niu.in ......c r...... ....
charge of "eteallng" his flint wife, Mrs.
Katherltie l.nll Shaw, was matrled
again last Thursday to Miss I.llllan
Mahoncy, IS yeara old, a youtw woman
wiiose heail lm been the model for draw
ings by Cluirlcfl Dana Hlbson and Henry
"lTho nunt and uncle of the bride, Mr.
and Mrs. James Mnhoney of "03 West
ISOtli street, oiiposed the marriage of
their niece with a dlvoiced mnn. The
ceremony was performed by the Rev,
I Iii ilen Holme of 2K Harden place, The
only witnesses wereMIss Fnnnln llnll, n
Irli nd of Mm. Shaw, and a broker whose
name rotild not be ascertained
Mr. Shaw brought an alienation suit
iiKiilnst Darling for $50,000 and a fdml
'ar null fr 125,000 against Mm. l.ynll.
his mother-in-law, but neither wnH tried.
Mis, Shaw wiih unwiccessful later in a
suit to annul the tnarrlnge,
NO MORE GERMAN EXPORTS.
(Inl !'' for t mcrlciin Hank Notes
Will Hi- PerinllH-il to l-nss,
UiNPON', June 5. No morn permits
for the Importation of Herman goods
Into the L'nltol States will be Issued,
an olllelal atinoiiiici-inent mad.i to. night
t stales. " s.
H Is probable thai the Hrltlsh Hov
leiiiinent will roiilliiue lo permit, how
I ever, the passage of lonslgiiinentH of
iw.s' for the sole use of tho United
'Slates nn ei e ,.,. ..v.u..-
of blink noien. .wmuunis .. ..-u
given lluit Mny dyes Imported by he
Vinerlcini iiovciiiineiii " ueu ior
Hovernment purposes only.,
I i-uiiiruii iirii null niu niivii.uu.. . , im airniu' ... ill u .1.1; int.. . . , .... . i.,,w
HINT OF HIS VIEWS
I'rjres rndjvidcd Allegiance to
I'lajr, a Strong and
I'nitcd Ainericn.
TALKS
TO
0)) villinness to Sacrif ice !
and Kndiirc Hcsts National
Hope, He Say.
Washington, June 5 For the first'
time since attention has been rentier) I
upon him as a possible Presidential can-1
dldute As-oclate Justice Hughes, In a !
tiulillf mlilreKM to-day. disclosed at least
partially his attitude on the question of
1 1 ' . . .
' - " - - ".' --
onntial ceremony or the picseiitntion oil
., national ling to tli- honor members
of the graduating claw of the National
Oathed.al School, whete his daughter ; ""' concisions, tor .v.r. tor
, ' . r,. ii,.- ie 1 telyou, who was a legul.ir Republican In
is a pupil. In vresenting the flat, I ,M2 and who has not atm.-ared It. the
said
This Hag means more than asoci.i-
women to whom the Ideals and honor , from h(, lomtJ uf th, c.l,),lIl(. protbly
of this nation have been dearer than wlt(l timatc ailvke fioni the Colonel,
life. and that he will hold Important confer
.... . ilrut It nii-.iriH nli i.. .i i .... .. ....
ii iiieaim .ini-iiv.. ,..
lmilull0ll aUegIance. It means America
united, stiong and efficient, i-i-u.il to her !
tasks. It means that ou cannot be i
hived ny me vaior iinu uc"""
' ata-estors; that to eacn generaiiou luui.t ,
Its patriotic nui.v; aim "i"i "i-""
willingness to sacrifice and endure as
those before ou have sacrificed ami en- t.iry and l.itr Sectetaiy of the Treasury
dured rests the national hope. umli r the Colonel. In ISO he was
"It i-yeaku of equal rights, of the . chairman of tho Republican National
Inspitalioii of free Institutions ixemdl- ' Committie. He ls bound to be received
lied and vindicated, of llbirty under law by the Republicans as a tuessengir who
Intelligently conceived utid. Impattlall) I should be listened to and believed, uc
udmlnlslerrd. ' cording to the belief around litre.
"Theie Is iiot n tlitcat In It but scorns Nl, W(ip, (M ,,)r)1 Tlvhvti
self-indulgence, weakness and mpaclty. ,. .
It In eloquent of our common interests. , There Is not!, tig In the- way of hint
outweighing all divergences of opinion j "f threat from the i olonel himself as lo
a. ul of our common d.Ktluy ', thJrl ticket In case the Republicans
.. ! lo tlx., of the i should not nominate him. but he guve
hlgluwt standing, It happily enforces tlie
lesson th.it Intelligence and zeal must go
together, that discipline must accompany
emotloiut and that we must ultimately
rely upon enlightened opinion."
Senator Martin of Virginia was tho
only man In high public life to hear the
address.
Justice Hughes's nppearance was al
most unheratded and almost escaped at
tention, except on the part of the, stu
dents and their ffie- ds.
Justice Hughes's daughter Is n mem
ber of the graduating class otul last
October before theie hail been much die-
cia-i'iou of the p.lhlllty of Ills nomlna
.i,,,. he consented t" make the rewnta-
tu,M lf the ling, tlie i.iWIng of which Is
The main path of the storm was np-
tiarently from the southwest. All wires
I l.. ,!..... ....! k.nllnn fire lloWTl llllfl
i... -- - r.
i,. i,.,i.n k.il
REVIVE U BOAT WAR
IS GERMANS' DEMAND
(iovi'niiiii'iil Is Kncoiirimiii'r
Airitntion for Itctiini of
TiTpii., Is Hi'port.
ifiirial l illtlt llelltr, tit Tllf Sl
UoNihin, June 5. -Despatches from
Th" Hague say that the demand for tho
teltistiiteiii.-nt of Von Tirpltz and a re
vival of rulhb-sMiess ill submarine wat
fate Is gtowlng stronger hotlily. The
C.ermitn ilovernnietit. It Is said, Is ap
parently Inclined to encourage thin
agitation.
The conservative vi-rii;.Zr(tinin, which
a few das ago was sii'ipics-..! for ciitl
rlslng the (loveinment fur yielding o
("'resident Wilson, Is again boldly 'cham
pioning the i etui n to a more drastic
naval cniinnlgn
Tlie iriicii Tiitir-.ritunp mid the
Tni'plichr Humlsilinu are taking the
same stand The ;,ofcn.iiurl;-r, which
is now as elosn to the Fotelgn Office us
any paper In Ci.imany, publishes a
significant nttlcle hinting that the steps,
taken abating the severity of the sub
marine war ate by no means final and
suggesting that (lertnany may yet find
It desirable to icturn lo ln-r former
policy
liven sonic radical p.tpeis ate Inclined
to tho i.ninton that the lesull of the sea
battle Ih a vindication of the Tirpltz
methods. The Calholh (irriniiiidi says
that the people of Ib-tllti look the tlrst
stories of the viclnrv very coolly, ap
parently unable to believe the Admiralty
renort The paper adds .
"our enemies will attribute Renin's
early Indlffeience to war weariness.
That would be a guive mistake, The
truth Is that the Hermans have allowed
themselves t I'1' too much Inlluenced by
tlie eveilasting llrillsh swagg. r about
their iiiiv, so Hint tin- news of n gieat
(l.-rni.in victor simply puzzled them
The light only nawtieu upon mem
gtndually."
I'lilltlciil HcttliiK .Muslly Talk.
Ilettlng on Hi" political Munition In
Hie lliiaiM-l.il district yesteiday was more
lalke.l of than actual, (iosslp had It
that there were many bets miulo on
Roohi-vell lo win Die nomination at odds
of 2 tn 1 against him This money, It
Is said, In being offered freely, and It Is
known that one offer was made to bet
123,000 M these odds without any of It
being tpn-
CORTELYOU RUSHES
TO ROOSEVELT'S AID
Sees Colonel at Sagamore Hill
and Starts for Chicago i
to Direct Fight.
ciiiuuikn'ciiicago IM'MOHS DKXIKI)1
, J
Ev - I'resideiit Gratified by
ters From (icrinans
Promising Support.
Ovstf.ii Hay, .lunr 5, A new rliamplon
lu tuken up the lists for Col. Hoosevclt
n'"' ls " his ny to Chicago to help
'"f" the bittle to get the Republicans
to nominate the cx-Prcsldcnt. lie ls
!,'",'-:e ' Cortelou.
.Mr. Cartel on called on him to-day,
the Colonel admitted, nnd when the
f(,r.r ..... s.,.,,r urn i... ., tru..t f..r
- " .ik .m.
Dut beneath ihtse simple chronicling
"- " - -
campaign for Roo.-evelt. has Jumped into i
me .ucna on inc eve oi me rtogressive
im.cn in me convi.niion cuy Willi liei-uo-
UeAM ,, Vr0):leMU- Ills sudden
app.-ar.iu. " at Sagamuru Hill and his
diartuie foi Clrioago foithulth are
i.ihen lo i- i-viui iii es lull Lol. Ilousewu
(MM ,v nu ,noans Kn,.n up the light for
the llepulillc.ur nomination
jr. Cortelyou was Roosevelt secre
out two htteis to-day that aro believed
to be significant,- as the writers In each
Install.-" were Americans of Jer;nin
descent and both urged him If necessary
to run for President on a third party
ticket. Moreover, Col. Roosevelt liked
the tone and subject matter of both
epistles, and he said so.
As to talk of a compromise nominee I
the Colonel is not committing himself by
saving that he is for or against any an-1
dldate lb- made that clear to-day. but
he a!-o let It be known tl.at e-Senator '
Hurton of Ohio Is one of the compromise .
candidates mentioned who would not be
acceptable to him If the uld iluard 1
attempt to nominate Hurton they will
do mi without the approval of Col ltoo-.e.
velt. nnd If they should succeed to that
venture they would court the Inevitable j
danger of a third ticket I
Col. Roosevelt said In rcplv to reports! i
from Chicago that no (1 O P emissary
was on his way to Sagamore Hill with
an important message, so far as the
Colonel knew . that he also hud no knowl
edge that Senator Horah was on an er
rand to Justice Hughes with a Roose
velt letter, that he knew of no such let
ter, that In- was aware of no movement
to nominate Senator Hurton . that, fur
thermore, such a movement would never
win the Hull Moose fnnc.v , and that ha
was not nwaie of a list of live compro
mise candidates having been drawn up
by the Republicans for submission to
the Progressives and leaving out House
veil, Hughes ii nil Root.
Colonel Keeps Posted.
As there s a new secretary at Saga
more Hill kienlng constant watch upon
the telephone between the Colonel's
,nP 11 O I"
i.r,,.u., ...... iipi.Tnt note, l -
the H'.acKHone Motel, uni
""" " ". '. '..' '......
. nine io vo.e .... .... ... -
publican nominee, and, otheiwlse, ns the
i standard beater of nu Independent party
. . t. . ..wun...! tl... llA.
an American puru. .viminer icuer
made iiubllc came from 1". A. Wuir.
bach, ptesldent of the llronx National
Hank. It said.
Helng of Herman extraction. Amer
ican b'irn. I take the liberty of saying
to you that tb St. Uuils 42 centi
meter was grand, and don't you for a
moi it believe that the Herman
sneaking people of this country think
mote of (let many than they do of tho
Slats and Sir pes. There may be a
ft iv air bags who love to bear them
selves ppeak and rce their names In
print, but there It slops. Also permit
me to i press my hope that, li re-nu-etlve
of what the, O. O, P. conven
tion may do at Chicago, you will not
take a back seat, hut permit tho people
to nam.- you as their standard bearer.
These ale the times when we need
men who lire not afraid lo put th-lr
lotivictfons Into words publicly.
May divine Providence bbss you
with good health and strength lo
fight not alone this, but many more
battles, for the Slurs and Stripes and
Ihe country we love
T( tills Col Roosevelt replied-
Nothing could please tne more than
Ottr letter Amei leans of tSeriuiiu
descent are In an Immense majority- -straight
out Americans who put the
Stars and Stripes above everything
else. 1 would be absolutely willing to
put my appeal for Americanism only
to Americans of I lei man descent, and
abide by their say so.
Col, Roosevelt will motor Into New
York to-niortow to do some ert anils and
kiep n few engagements.
IOWA SUFFRAGISTS LEAD.
t'lnlm
i'ln- Will t'lirrji State
hjr
--.-..noo Majiirll.
Dkk Moinks, la., .luii" 5. Returns
from nntl-HiilTi'iigi teiiitoiy In east
Iowa cut down the majority for tho
tqual ballot amen. luii-nt to less than 2.0UU
at midnight.
Suffrage leaders claim they will carry
the Stain by 2.1.000 majority. Anil
suffrnge leaders claim III" Slate by 15,
ntio, ll.ilh sides claim the rural vote,
which will b- the ilecliiiig factor In tho
election, Hi-turns viere avallnlilo at mid
night from about 20 per icnl of the
State.
W. 1.. Harding, wet, candidate for the
Repubilran nomination for tlovernor,
won over two tur candidate nd an
other wet.
intrenched. It is puiuiany Mppose,, ,,a ; '" ' ' '"7. ' over I me may tlon of grave problems and seeking a
,CI Hoisev. lt bas knowle, go of what lcm. h; lf a .XenVe purposes I i man who ought to appeal to the Allien
' Is going on In Hie iv Indy City. ' ti s in o porsjiU- as the right man to lead
Wis., who said .hat he ho 1 to be we are to . i...inlno e . ig j!lliu;uy K , '''"'' u, he the tentHm-nt
HUGHES WILL WIN ON THIRD BALLOT,
IS CLAIM AS HIS FORCES ORGANIZE;
MOOSE TO A WAIT G 0. P. NOMINA TION
MOOSE IN A MUTINY;
FOR NOBODY BUTT. R.
Suspicions of Perkins, the
Delegates Storm at, Conven
tion Marking Time.
TWO DAVS WAIT FIXED
Conference Committee With
(i. 0. P. mocked Straus
May Lose.
Pini-Aoo. June r. Without
word
from Theoilote Rooevelt himself It Is
going to be next to Impossible for
ti.-orge W Perkins and his aids In this
situation to control the Hull Moose con
vention. The delegate- to this convention be
gan arriving by the htmdruls to-day.
All decked on with Roosevelt badges
and buttons, these delegates, the same
type that came forth In 1912, are saying
they will take Roosevelt or nobody, and
many or them are actually suspicious of
.Mr -erkln and the men who are strlv-
Ing to hold them In check.
The men from the Hast appear to be
a rabid as the men from the youth and
West. They have come to hold a Roose
velt convention nnd they don't want
any other kind. There appears to be no
such thing a control by any leader"
among them. They have onlv one leader,
nnd he Is In njster Hay. Judging from
tl.elr talk they will take no orders from
a vlcetoy to nominate any one but tholr
Idol.
This was the situation confronting Mr
Perkins. Horace Wilkinson, William
Hamlin Chllds am) men of the cooler
headed type when the Progressive Na
tlonal Committee met this morning
Frnturea of the Mrrtlnic.
What happened at this meeting may
be summed up thus;
1. A proposal that the committee
appoint a conference committee to
meet with the Republicans was not
piesed because it became apparent
that sentiment In the committee was
ng.ilnt It after speeches were made
by Hiram Johnson. Victor Murdock
aiid Italnbriilge Colby.
2 An agreement was reached to
transact nothing but routine business
In the Hull Moose convention on
Wednesday nnd Thursday to give a
chance for Informal conferences be-tu-een
the leaders to clear up the
situation, and should these fall of their
purpose to leave mailers 10 me con
vention Itself.
3. A dicl.iratlon that the enmmtttee
still adhered to Its January statement
refusing to surn-i der tin- principle!
for which Progre.ss.v. had rought and
pledging lovaltv only to a leader
known to stand for them and able to
put their principles through.
I A decision to publish In the form
of pige advertlserents In the papers
of Wednesday morning an appeal to
the Republican delegates to take Theo
dore Roosivelt and giving reasons why
he should be their choice.
Perkins's nnoniiremeiit.
.i- noti.... t-iken at th '
P.eg.udl.u the nc m taken at h.
meeting of the committie Mr i emms ,
. said to. night:
made It perfectly!
"l think that
.invention will wait and
c e.ir ii ..l uiii ...n..... -----
clear that our c.
..... n,.i,. nir the bat undthat
statement, which we reatllrmrd to-day.
was tantamount to an Invitation to the
Republicans tn confer In the statement
which we shall Issue oil Wednesday and
wlklch is now being prepared we shall
present our case for Roosevelt to th
Republican voters.
"Then- have been some conferences
to.rlay. but there have been no counter
proposils made as et by the Republl
cans 1 suppose the reason for this Is
that tin are trying to get together,
i.Mr Roosevelt coming to Chicago""
Mr Perkins was asked,
"No, that matter has not even been
discussed," replied Mr Perkins,
other liogresslves. wintu of whom are
known to be favorable to Hughes, were
not v.-tv cheerful on the developments
of the d'nv. William' H. Hotchklss said:
"We ca'n't control these people. They
want Roosevell and nobody else They
Intend to go Into tne coiiveiuo.n, nine
contiol of It and nominate him no mat-
ir i.liui any one says
Os. ar Straus, who is foi Hughes ns
set ond ihoiie, said that he would like to
sec the convention go so far as lo wait
for the Republicans to nominate and
then If they should nominate Mr Hughes
to ask the latter for u statement of his
views, holding the Progressive conven
tion open for this put pose even until
Monday If necessary. "Hill," ho said,
"It Is extremely doubtful whether the
delegates would consent to such n plan."
Sltnius's nefetil Indicated.
As a result ot ins xiufsbiuu
for
Hughes as second choice It Is even doubt
ful now If tlf New Yolk Progressive
delegation will elect Mr. Straus chair
man. William Hamlin Chllds sent a tele
gram to J. J. O'Connell. Now York
ounty. ou the delegates' train asking
him tn vote for Mr. Straus. Mr O'Con-lii-ll
lefuscl lo do so and has announced
himself as a candidate ngnlnst Mr.
Straus on account of the lntler's Hughes
talk heie. The Indications aro that Mr.
Stious will b defeated.
Tin-re weic only two absentees when
the National committee met this morn
ing, A i-iowd of Itlegittin walled outalde
door while their deliberations were In
proaresH. The meeting was In secret. Mr.
Perkins made a long speech, going over
tlie work of the executive committee
since last January.
At the conclusion of the speech a res
olution was adopted approving of the
January statement which the executive
committee had Issued. Tho solectlon of
Raymond Hountna as temporary chair
man of the convention was also approved.
...lit t .i. -... 1 111 mT IH'IMllI UltH'ti
proposed that tlie nitlonul committee
warn uscar 11. liunuiey oi Aisosms.
WHITMAN HITCHCOCK FUL TON
ORGANIZE HUGHES FORCES
150 Delegates, Called by Oregon, Launch Boom and
Order Badges to Tag Converts 48 New
York Men Listed for Justice. .
ClllCAOo, June t, The Hughes sentl-
ment took form anil substance this after
noon nt a meeting of ISO delegates' In
tho Sherman House. They came from -a
dozen Slates. They assembled voluntar
ily to form nn organization. They made
an Impressive showing In numbers and
energy and spirit
I'ntll this meeting there hail been
no concrete expression whatever of the
Hughes strength. It had been an Im-1
palpable sort of thing, recognized, but I
dltlicult to put a linger on. The meeting
changed this situation. It gives tho j
Hughes cause a strong tiush foi waul. I
It seemed to bear out the pre dictions of I
Hughes workers on the "inside" tint at
the least 300 delegatts will vote for the
JuMlce on the tlrst ballot
The meeting had certain definite re
sults. A committee was named to take
up a collection for Hughes badges and
distribute them to the delegates, who are
weary of going about untagged. Hvery
one of the 130 present was Instructed
to go out In the hotel corridors and high
ways and byways ami talk Hughes,
pre.ich Hughes, argue Hughes. Kvery
man was Instructed to como to another
meeting at 3 P. M. to-morrow and to
bring with him. If possible, at least one
other Hughes delegate.
Worker .et Touethrr.
Atiothfr result was the getting to
gether of various nun that have been
working for Hughes without credentials
or without uny sort of iticour.igetnent
from the Justl-v Although Charles W.
Fulton of Portland, leader of the Oregon
State delegation, had most to do with
spreading the Hughes mass uncling Idea,
the session was attended by (5ov. Whit
man of New Vork and by l-'rank II.
Hitchcock, who have been regarded as
rivals for the honor of leading the cause,
and the three Joined hands and agreed
to "whoop" It up together.
The meeting w is nn experiment a
test of the Hughes strength. Senator
Fulton of Oregon, as the leader of a
delegation of ten Instructed for Hughes,
bad Informed the newspaper men twenty-
four hour previously that while Oregon
did not desire to be presumptuous, the
fact that It was the first and only State
Instructed for Mr Hughes seeim-d to
give It the right lo take the Initiative
in loncentratlng Htiglns support Tlo-ie-fore
lie asked evir delegate who i-v.
peeled to vote for Hughes to meet nt
the Oregon delegations rooms at 3 P. M
to-day.
l.-oiton himself was none too optlmm
tic There were manv reasons wti)
a small company rather than a lare
one was to be expected Theie were
many State delegations holding their
own meeting-, for one thing. Seme
of delegates had engagements of one
sort and another Many, perhaps, wire
not ready to come out Into the open
nnd so Senator Fulton would not haw
been cast down If the meeting had
"fizzled " Hut It dldll t
H'lij Orcumi I'lcUeil Hughes.
At tlrst the outlook mis dubious The
leathering win set for 3 o clock, but
there were scarcely a dozen delegates
t Orecon headquarters at that time
hour , i((.r t)(,ri, Mfy anU
v,,u cn, ,twii to business.
"I hope." he said, "that you won't
think we are ir.ving io oo . . in.. ...
. , i.i...
-to coniro. iuimiiiiik
Out In Oregon
nil over Oieiron that Mr. Hughes Is the
man to tepr.s'ent mid c.-iri foiward
the Ideals actuating the American mind
of to-day "
After explaining that the Supreme
Court of Oregon ru.ed that the name of
Justice Hughes must go on the pri
maries ballot, In spile of the Justlie's
objections, and that Mr. Hughes received
a plurality of 30,000 against the Ro.w
velt and favorite sons forces, Senator
Fulton went on -
"It eeeins to me that some things
ought to be done to further Justl.-o
Hughes's candldac, some things that
haven't been done.
John A. J.uictzkc, a delegate from
Mat land, wits made chairman of the
meeting and F. O Ho.itwrlght of
Oeorgla secretary, despite his plea that
should appoint a confetence committee
lll.V. IlirillO joiiiinon hi '.'
was present as the hobbr of a proxy,
was on his feet Instantly to object. Hov.
Johnson expiess.-d himself as being
thoroughly In isecord with what had been
dono by the executive coiiiiinttee and
with tho statement of last J.inu.ir.v, but
declared himself to be opposed lo any
plan by which the National Cominltteu
or a sub-committee of that body should
do any conferring with the Republicans
The functions of III" committee, he
pointed out, expired with the assembling
of the convention, nnd this was a mat
ter for the convention Itself to handle.
Hainbrldge Colby, Victor Murdock and
several otheis took somewhat the same
ground. Mr. Colby said that he was In
favor of the convention delaying Its
nominations for a reasonable time, but
he said that thero should be no Idea en
tertained of "stringing along " Two
days, he thought, was ample time.
Sentiment for llnrmonj.
Appa'rrilly the sentiment In the com
mittee was In favor of getting togitlier
with the Republicans, If It could be ac
complished without any sacriinc in rim
i.a,.. oe leader. Further than that
there wan no expression.
The committee, ntier neiiig in rcsniuii
two hours, adjourned lo meet at
o'clock to-morrow afternoon. At this
meeting It wiih decided tn have present
the State chairmen, This l with the
object, It was Bald, of getting them to
work among the delegates to delay the
nomination of a candidate until Friday
at the earliest.
Meantime, according to the decisions
reached, the Progressive leaders expect
Informal conferences will be carried on
, .. . ...... ....lto.1 I ...llHllir tll'.T tllf S U.t.
w ith the Republicans.
1
mere was no
be had telegrapher's clamp. Mr. Jan-
etzke. said that In Maryland the Hughes
sentiment is strong ntul that many Re
publican who were hot for Roosevelt
In 1911 are now demanding the nomina
tion of Hughes. At Senator Kulton's
suggestion a roll of Suites was called 111
fotmally, so that deb-gates could ex
plain the amount of Hughes strength
In their respective States.
Unit I'lrsl Poll .Stood.
At the end of the meeting this table,
which covets only ten or a dozen States,
W;H 0ht.in,.,
...ten it-jiiepenieu .11 me ll.eeiiOK,
Alabama, :i , Alaska. 2
Oeorgla. 3. Kentucky. 12:
Arizona, f i
Missouri. 20;
?'ar;1.,.U" . i Oregon. In; New
"Ar """I"'! 6 T'"1"'. '"'
Vork,
Oregon needed no one to sneak for
her. Her ten was a fixed nuatitttv. Oeor
gla ill legates promptly pledged five votes
to Hughes, and Malor John P i n H I
followed with the assurance that Hughes I
would fare well In Maryland. Fred S.
Hreen of Arizona said dryly
"I've been around li.-t t; a day or two
and 1 was btguining to wonder If the
Huehes movement was like a St. Pat
rb k's day parade which Is ulna) so
long beciusn ever.v fellow wants to
march past his own Isnut-e. I'm glad we
are getting together. We have five
votes sure for Hughes, and We hope to
have all six."
Oliver Ii. Street of Alabama assured
the meeting that a majority of Alaba
ma's votes at least nine would be for
Hughes on the first ballot. N. H. Coff-
man of Washington said
We an- an unlnstructed delegation.
Tlie western part of
if the State Is for.
Hughes. The eastern part Is pretty
strong for Roosevelt. I know of flv
Hughes votes In our delegation. Out
West we believe we must have the sup
port of the Progressive party and of
their leaner aim pet caniiio.ue. c
want Col Roosevelt to take an active
part iu ti.e c.niKUti."
.Missouri Marls Willi 'JO.
Missouri beard from at once stated
that there would be nt leat twenty
votes for Hughes from that State on the
first ballot and more subsequently.
"Thete has het n an effort to get our
del. gate to give n romp Imentrtry vote
to Set! it r John W. Weeks of Massa
chusetts " sai.l an earnest Mlssourlan,
"but the feeling ls growing among us
that this Is a f.oor time jusi 10 ne mm-
pllmellt'tlg "Ollle fellow."
Alaska came .uong uiroiiKo i.
A. C.ilmore and pledged her two votes
to Hughes, and then Kentucky, In spite
of the claims made by the l-alrKinks
people that eighteen of Kentnck' votes
Will be for the llOOSl.r C.lIlillU.lie ll.'i o
first to list, stated that at bast twelve,
maybe fifteen, of her twenty-six will be
for' Hughes on the first ballot ,
While three reports wire being made
delec.ites kept drifting tnrouun
the
doorwav Piesetitlv all of the seats in
the room w.-ie taken Then deleg.it s
. . . .. ..... 1, .....I ul,!..
walls Finally tin re was a solid crowd term! with him for some time. Chair
of dcltgates at the bok Senator Fill- in. in Charles I) lllllcs of tin- Re-iubli.
ton w.is smll.ng lirgel.v The 'Ize of I can National Coiniimtce also visited
the meeting had b aten all evfiect.it. oils Mr Perkins's quarters, and lattr tho
and It bad showed ., vuiich too , p, gi ,-..,y,. chairman gave ., dinner
, r;:;:",,:;": v; .,...-.. . ir.K,
,i... ,i.,..r,.v .....l rals.-.l a ' ati. I otli. r R.-publlcnn.s Senator Pen-
" '". "' "" - . . . .. . .
-l
Senitor Fulton hurrie.i lo wie noor,
.'..,m-M Whitman bv the elbow, guided
him lo the cha.t man's table and then,
almost hn I'llll , appealed
"C.ovetnoi, tell us wh-al to do
Whitman Hulled us Lender.
"I am not In a position to tell ou
what to do.' said Mr. Whitman. "You
III Oregon hive shown the whole coun
try what to do. I feel that the Hughes
,s Im.nt Is wry general here, but it
or v faintly lellects the Hughes sentl
tmnt over the country. In various
trips through New York State I have
gauged that sentiment.
"New York, the voters. I mean. Is
overvv helmmgl for Hughe I am i-ei-taln
that he will be nominated 1 only
wish that the Si w York delegation was
as united us Otegon's, but we will give
Justice Hui-hts a lii.ijorit.i "
Then Col Hill ll.iyw.ud of New
York, who Is coadvls.-r with Wnlinian
and Hitchcock as to th" Hughes boom,
said ho tlgurid that It would be Hughes
very ear'- In th" balloting ceit-.unl not
later than tho second ballot
There wire more i heels nnd more
handshaking. The Hughes dogates
had undoubtedly acquired a lot of con
fidence. committee appointed foi this purpose,
however.
Whither Ih" divegiit.-.s will consent t.i
the two da.vs delay lb a matter of some
doubt to-night Ah (Joy. Johnson, ivh
is genera!! looked on as the lid hfi.i
In the Piogu-sslve following, has vlitu
ally agreed to such a programme Mr
Perkins and his assistants seem to tlili.k
that the situation cut to this . M lit be
controlled. Then too the .l.-'.igai.N are
clinging to the hope that Roosevelt w'll
Im taken by the Republicans and un
willing to p.il no obstacles in ti." way
ot this.
It will onl be when an ait.-nipt is
Iliad" lo swing tlieni to somebody else
that theie ls a ohan f th" lid being
taken off. The entlment of most of
the ilel.-g.itiT. was expressed by Henry
Moskowlt of New York, who said'
"It In Roosevelt or nobody, and the
Republicntis might as well get reconciled
to It now as any time "
J J. O'Cojinetl and Walter Johnson
of the New York delegation mid that
their delegates would never -laii. for
Hughe, and that they would Insist upon
milking nominations ThtiiMlay at tlu-
latest
Mr Perkins admitted that I ...I i.-.i
cotiierences with home of the Repiibll.-nn
leaders ilurlnu the day, but appatently
they got nowhere, lu a hlatemint w hlch
Mr Perkins gave out early this morn-
nm nn limn. unce.i i n.i i lie Houti use
every ounce of his ability lo bring about
harmony between th" two conventlonn
"Hut not for one minute," he added,
"will I lose sight of the fad that ,vou
con pay too high a price for harmony "
The Progressive platform is being
hhape.l by William Draper Lewis of
reniis.viv.inii, ii win largely tie a ie
alllriiintlon of the 1912 platform with
preparedness added.
Lodge. Hilles and Penrose
Hold Conference With
Perkins.
SHOUT SIX NAMES
TO THE COLONEL
Knot Talk Revived: Say
Hoosevclt Prefers Him
to the .lust ice.
VYO)IIX(J OCT E0I!
lirtJHES: OTHER GAINS
Managers Watch New York
Delegation: Fear Effect
of I'nitcd Vote.
(.'mi-.vi;o. June fi. With the arrival
to-day of nearly all the delegates to
tho Republican national convention
tho Impression that has existed
here for several days In regard to the
Mtength of the movement In favor of
Justice. Charles Kvtin.s Hughes became
confirmed.
SHong Hughes sentiment ciopped
out plainly, not only In tho until-
structed delegations but In Stat
,,., 1U ,,,, . ,,.,,,, ,., fll..ri,.
' ' .......v.
SOflS.
The illsclostiie of this feeling among
j the delegates has grintly Increased the
chance of the Republican convention
naming the Jurist. At the same tlm
tln ie was n corresponding let down in
the talk ot Col. Roosevelt ns the pos
sible Republican nominee.
-Mr. Roosevelt's lieutenants. In fact,
nit- now convinced that it will be Im
possible for him to capture the nomi
nation in the Republican imiventloii.
Th.-y haven't given up the tight and
In not Intend to until the last minute,
but they an- coiiiidentially concerned
now In finding a vvuy to bring ulxjut
li.inuon.v ami at the same time save
their own iliL-tut.v
submits s x ,,!,., Il( v-i,,,,,,,
Thete w.-ie important moves in the
diii-ctioii of harmony and ii get tu-
' gel net programme to-night
Senator Lodge of MaSMichllrf tU
culled on Ocorge W Perkins and can-
l : . ..
. ni-j .nun was one oi inita-
who called on Mr Peiklns.
Some of the old (lunril leaders named
flvu or mx nn-ii to Mr. Perkins, who
would be iici-eptablo to the Repub:.
cans. The list included Gov. Harding
of Ohio. Philander ('. Knox, Chtirlen
W. Fairbanks, Kllhu Root mid Senator
.lolm W. Weeks of .Mu.smchusott.s.
The conferencts to-night Indicated
renewed activity on the pan of somt
of the Mi-i-alled Did (iu.it d loader
against tin- Hughes, movement. There
was u n-vival of talk In favor of Kllhti
Root. One of the most Important of
the Republican leaders declared thai
lluglies will pot bo nismlnuli-d. He
gave It as his opinion that the conven
tion finally would swing to Mr. Root.
Ho lidded that Republican leaden hail
reason to believe Col Roosevelt would
tnko Mr Root in preference to
Hughes .
Republican Icad.-is s.i.d that a
strong effort will bo made to-morrow
to push Mr Root's name t.. the fore
nnd to put a .-heck to the growin
sentiment in favor of Hughes
Holds lliilniici- of Power.
While f would seem that little less
than a miracle can chango the out
look for .Mr Roosevelt's nomination.
there is no disposition on tho part of
iii'puiiii.-iiiiN to miti.itiij... mi. power
th. if the Colon. -I wields in the present
hliii.itioti Mr. Roosevelt will prac
tiuill di. tate tin- Important planks In
the Ri'piibllitui platform nnd his l.s
likel to bo tho controlling voice In
tho selection of tho Republican
nominee.
What Col Roosevelt's own prefer
eii.t' is ns regards the candidate,
barring himself, was nn uncertain to
night ns it limi been at any tlmo since
tho Republicans and Progressive be
gan to anlvo In ChlcaR.i, despite the
i-iiiifet.'nces held to-day nnd to-night
by the Progressive leaders and between
tin- Hull Mimao lieutenant-- and the
lliiHiblluins
Republican leadeis were insisting
through the day upon Hughes, or Bonn,
"favorite son" candidate. The Roose
velt liilloweiH were standing loyally by
'.monci iinu ueciaring unit Hughes
I ""t I'" considered by them until
ho hail made a statement which would
show-ih.it IiIh vIcvvh vveru In accord
with the pi uiclples of tin. Progressive
i vilni- of ilw. l, ..,.. .........
has lli.is far refused to consider tin.
jui isr. even under thoso circumstances
nm! has insisted upon lloosevelt'b
iii.mlnati.iii
Vol w it list eliding the stand nf the most
Iniliieiui .i lenders, Including the Colonel
h'msiif i favor of a harmony pro-
I gi alum'- th- u eret signs to-day that
ueie al.trmliiK to the men In both pat-
-I
-ii
