A.
ROOSEVELT, OR NOBODY, PERKINS TELLS MOOSE
WEATHER Bhowira probable tonight and Wednesday,
HMMJL
JH aCOTVOV
JTOTVOV
I u Circulation Books Open to All."
"Circulation Hooka Open to All.'
18 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
Copjrrif hi, 1010, by The I rm rabUehJ
Co. (The Ktr York World).
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 1916.
PRICE ONE CENT.
WMML
wtot
M
i)
LORD KITCHENER KILLED AT SEA;
HIS STAFF LOST AS SHIP SINKS
"I ARE FOR
;ei
ID CHOICE NOW OR
ANY TIME, SAYS PERKINS
Bull Moose Manager Delivers What
Amounts to an Ultimatum At
tacks Hughes Boomers for Mak
ing Capital Out of Flag Speech.
By Samuel M. Williams.
(Special Staff Correspondent of Tho Evening World.)
ClIK'ACiO. Ill, June 6. New York's Hull Moose herd broke out of tho
Pewklns corral to-day. Repudiating all attempt of the National tedders to
dicker and negotiate with Republicans, they started a stampede for noose
veil to be nominated fcy the Progressive Convention, regardless of consequences.
Meanwhile Perkini himself is
sued two statements. In one he
told the Dull Moose delegates they
were for Roosevelt and had no
second chaice. In the other he
declared to the general public that
Roosevelt had never declared he
would not support Hughes. In this
statement he criticized the Hughes
men for seeking to make capital
out of the speech on the flag made
by the Justice in Washington.
The delegation met at noon and
lectod Oscar .Straus I'hnlrman and
John J. O'Connell of Brooklyn Floor
Leader. Then they turned the meet
Ins; Into it whoop. up roar for direct
and Immediate action.
Thry brought In (Jov. Hiram John
son of California, rlilef of the gu-it-alono
fnctiuii ; Ictor M unlock of
Kansas, jnotlicr radical, ami ove'iy
declaration of Independence, every
denunciation of political deala aroused
wild cheers,
rvnonnrtl .nit.nllcd the text with a
declaration that "New Yorkers have j by tho news from Washington that
como hero with only ono Idea, nnd 'justice Hushes had declared himself
that Is of nominating Theodore Kooso-1
velt and no ono else. We will not0n ' lh' f"'cs,,on of tiredness at a
admit the possibility of a second'0"001 commencement. Differences
choloe. Those leaders who have been , about the lssuo of preparedness has
on the ground for the paat week In , been the most formidable barrier
vam ,........, w, ..vs. ..... .
the punch from the outside given to
them by us.
STRAUS CALLS FOR ROOSEVELT
REQARDLE880FC0N8EQUENCES.
Oscar Straus, innplred by the ex
cltetment, declaimed In lofty oratory
on the Idealism of the Simon pure
Progressive movement, winding up
with tho statement, "We have come
to the conclusion that regardless of
consequences our standard bearer
roust be our beloved and Inspired
leader Theodoro Hoosevelt."
For two hours orutory was on tap, tho
delegates working themselves up to u
piaelon of Independence and repudia
tion of any understandings with Re
publicans excepting on tho basis of
rtoosevelt'a nomination. Then they
si out to round up other States and
organize to tako control of tho Na
tional Convention to-morrow should
I'erklns and his allies attempt to hold
there back,
Meantime, In his luxurious suite In
the Ulackstone Hutel, the costliest In
ferences and negotiations with .
straight gooels Itepubllc.tnH.
he expected to be at this nil day ,md
had nothing '"t t' announce as t"
ICkUltu.
.Meagtc news from behind tlv
closed doors Indicated that the bi
partisan ellckcring hail hci n nar
rowed down to Inn candidates Ilout
and Uoosovelt.
The repot t was that Ito"s-cveit pro-
t erred Hoot as eocond choice because
cf the latter's bold and uneo.utvoc.il j
(Continued on Second Page.)
ROOSEVELT:
HUGHES BOOM
GETS A BIG BOOST
ON FLAG SPEECH
Backers of His Candidacy De
clare He Has Shown He is
for Preparedness.
Martin (irccn.
(Special Staff Correspondent of The
Evening World.)
CHirAOO, Juno C The Hughes
boom boosted immensely to-day
against a joining of tho Hughes and
Roosevelt forces.
Without committing himself to any
thing Justice Hughes has either made
himself or been made, up to inter
day, the dominating figure of this
convention. Now foe has come out
and put hlmsHlf on record, his friends
say, and It Is up to the forces oppos
ing hlra to admit ho stands pat on
the Hoosevelt platform, or to advance
In open uttuck on the ground that he
has not been sulllclontly radical.
Definite news of the declara
tion of Justico Hughes did not
reach Chicago until almost mid
night. As the report spread tired
political leaders antagonistic to
the Hughes candidacy were
routed out of bed, and by 3
o'clock this morning there were
several conferences In the Con
gress and Blackstone hotels.
Tho Hughes boomers consider what
their candidate said at the com
mencement of the National Cathedral
School is sulllclent. This little school
e"en,m.,t incident . I. boun.l to
liln . 11 tl Imil.irillllt .'! in hn
iicuiiiKn m lie H O euil Vt'lUUlll'J ror U
puts .ItiMluu Hughes on record In tho
unly public statement he has made
' slnco Ins name lnui been put before
the people as a landldale.
CARD INDEX PROVES CONVEN
, TION UNSTAMPEDABLE.
I lliigbea managers, who were
(routed out uf bed early this morning
, and told of ivlmt had happened In
Washington piouceded to daro Ool.
Ku.eu.t tu attack tho stand of Mr.
(Continued on Second Page,)
SHOTS AND BRICKS
FLY AS POLICEMEN
BAHLE WITH MOB
Ten Bluecoats Attacked by
Striking Bricklayers at Mont
gomery and Water Streets.
LONGSHOREMEN MIX IN.
Irishmen, at War With Italians,
Come to Aid of In
jured Patrolmen.
Mullet", bricks and stone nero e
changed between a group f ten ri
llcemen and a riotous mob of striking
bricklayers, longshoremen nnd gang
srs at Montgomery and Water
Htrcots to-da. As a result of the
ntfray nil the policemen who partici
pated In It nro nursing stone and
brick bruises iind six of their oppon
ents nre under arrest charged with
disturbing tho peace.
Th" riot grow out of labor troubles
In tho jrtx-story loft building that Is
bolng erected on the scene of con
flict by I). r Weekn nnd Suiih, gen
eral contractors, of No. 11S3 Broad
way. Tho troubles are dun to rivalry
between two unions of bricklayers,
ono composed of Irishmen at J tho
other of Italians.
A strike of tho Italian laborers was
called last Vrl lay, and nil responded
to the order but five. This morning
three automobiles loaded with Ital
ians arrived In front of the building,
and the occupants, forcing their way
Inside, ordered the live men to quit
work. An argument ensued that at
tracted Policeman Arthur O'Keefe.
As n crowd gathered before the
building a number of striking long
shoremenfrom New Haven Pier No.
37, Hast Hlver, were drawn to the
scene by curiosity. O'Keefe, mean
while, had ordered the Italians to dis
perse, A brick thrown fmm tho
building knocked him to the ground.
O'Keefe scrambled to his feet and
banded his whistle to an onlooker, or
dering him to blow It for assistance.
As the man raised tho whistle to his
lips two shots wcro fired at him from
one of tho automobiles. O'Keefe
promptly flrod nve shots In the nlr.
At this point four other automobiles
loaded with Italians arrive, and the
striking longshoremen, believing that
they contained strikebreakers, opened
an attack. O'Keefo's shots had at
tracted nine other policemen and
lustily swinging their sticks they
sailed In
In a few seconds the street wns
tilled with longshoreman anil Italians
hammering each other and t..lung put
shots at the little group of policemen
with revolvers, Im id locks.
Tho police wcro greatly outnum
bered and wcro In danger of defeat
when a scoro or moro of Irlhhmen
who live In the neighborhood nlllgned
themselves with tho bluecoats and
hurled rocks nnd hrlcU.e at tho rioters.
A well almud brick had struck Po
liceman Deppirt of the Dak Stieet
Station In tho right cu and sceral
others were out of the fight liecauso
of blown in the -stomach from brickie.
I At the h Igllt Of .he melee til'' lllltn-
uioMr, which .ad caused the
'tumble, re. rented, fol'mieel b a
1 fusil.ide of shnta fiun the pollconi 'ii.
Tho poller, enptllli'd ull" en I, oil
, taming si men. however.
, The longfhoreuieii, when thy "'und
.they ha I Jolnul in a fight m wh i
1 thej hud no lnleri-i, ri're.ii.d to
i then pichet Iiik, nursing black es
i and bruises. rf"vi ral of the ,ioli.i.
men went to nenrbv drugstore and
h' .'ipitult for treatment
Koui of th men arrested were r-
Dead British War
I : i 1 1
U
Gen SirVILLIAM R.Olir.R.TSON
ralgne.l lieforo Mag s'late Porrlgan
In the - tit t M Strirt 1'ileo Mtntion
e'hafged with disorderly conduct.
They are.
Frank Tinno, a saJoon keeper of No.
39 Knst 1'oiirtei'tilh .Street.
John Lasorsa, a brlcklaer, of No.
330 Kast Ono Hundred and Twentieth
.Street.
Joseph Tomacclll of No. 3'.i Hast
Ono Hundred anil I'ourteetith Street.
Ferdinand Do Ccasar, a ehauffour,
of No. 312 Kast One litindied and
Fourteenth Street.
Pe f'easar told tho magistrate that
Fumo had hired his car for a ploasure
trip. Tho Magistrate) sentenced Fumo,
Iisorsa and Tomacclll to tho Work
house for ten days and He, t'ensar
for five, days.
Vincent Stantluello if No 212
Chrystio Street utld lose-ph (iuutdetll
of No. 533 liast Thirteenth Street,
charged with assaulting Policeman
O'Keefe. will be arraigned Liter.
BROOKLYN BOY INTERNED ,
FOR SINN FEIN REVOLT!
State Department Revives. Wordj
of Disposition of. Case of j
John J. Kils.illon.
WASHINGTON. Juno fi.--.tohn I
Kilgiillon. the ii.in teeii - i'ur old
ltronKljn tiov, who w is In hi in eon
neclion wi t :',( sini' I m i'i"l',
has been in t m I under t,a Isfens,
of Hit Itt.iliit Ait. ,!,' ",il,na to ad
lcee to the st.iti I , .iftttir in lo-U.ij.
.- - - -
FORTY ROBBED IN CLUB.
flint I'lll.eers llelil I i tij 'lliree
llnmllt tin t.i-i II I u lone.
C'l.i:Vi:i.AM . .Inn" t. Thie.
btindIM bioloi 1 1 i end K.uue it tie
I'rojpeet Sori.il I M il). Ill the d'JWtltown
lection of tie flt. i illy tn-d,, le Id up
end rntihed frn H v.-ilot-, relieving th.-ni
of nioni y iu ion, ly i',1 oi.itod .jt ironi
11,000 to ti.vOO. tnd mnu ihcli ttcscs.
Lord and His Probable
Successor; British Ship
Kitchener, Hero of Nation,
Rallied Britain for War;
Quadrupled Army inYear
Soldier, Called for Herculean
Task, and Trusted
by People.
Horatio Herbert Kitchener, (ircat
Britain's man of leu and Iron, was
one of the must picturesque figures
In military life during tho last quar
ter of a century. A soldier from his
boyhood, he earned honor nftor honor
because of his Intrupid bravery and
wonderful organizing ability. Ho was
thu embodiment "f mllllarUrn, unro
lentlng. stern as u Cromwell and,
withal, Just.
Cold and calculating, his was not
a nature In win friends, but his abil
ity was -uch that ho as admired
and trusted absolutely by tho nation
he served as soldier for moro than
twefscoro years, In iecent years It
had como to be that the namo of
Kitchener was a fetish with which to
conjure'. With Kitchener, tho Kng
llfh people fedt di'feit wits Impos
sible. (ire-al as were l."rd Kitchener's
tasks as conquertii of the Soudan,
purifier of India and li 'tni-sis of the'
Itoi rs, ho u.'ih ''alii d lo tho iimst (lei
eiilein duty of ills caueT with the
outbreak of the i:uro,.-an conflict
When tho war elnuds began to gather
In th summer of 1'Jll Kitchener hap
lie tied to In; In l-i.i,' ind lie liud
lust returned from Imli.i, wnero ho
-i serving an lintish agent, hid
aceeited an H.uldoni from King
rjnorge and was he.ng 'llscuss'eil for
the Vleeroyshlp )f India.
Within i f t w h. iirs i f r r-r KiighndN
(Ccntlnuta on Fourth Pm )
Which Was Sunk
J, J. HILL LEFT NO WILL;
ESTATE OF $10,000,000
Widow of Railway Magnate Esti
mates Property Value in I'lea
to Have Son Named.
ST. PA17Ij. Minn., Juno . -James J.
Hill, tho railroad builder, loft no will.
Ills widow to-tlay tiled n petition In
Probate Court asking that houls W,
Hill, a son, bo appointed administrator
of the estate, tho valllo of whloh Is
piand m tim formal petition at jio,- conference with high officials concerning the conduct of the war. Such
by'the eight children. a conference would have been of special significance in view of the genera!
The disposition of tho inn fortunes, Hiissiati offensive which is now under way along the 250-mile front from
i.itod much larger, Is thought to have!,, , . .. ,, .
heen made
death.
Deroro the magnate's
THIRI1 PARTY TAI K 'RIINK ' nave struck a mine as il wouW have be an exceeJi"i'1y Uickv shot
imnu inn i iHLrv duhix, ' a torpeiio to ,.get.. a with her specJ anJ mier the conjitioib
SAYS T, R.'S SECRETARY'of the sea, which was very rough.
j 'Hie Hampshire, while an old boat and not fit for fleet action, was
WcGrath Pouits Repurt G ilonel 1 fast enough for patrol and blockade work. She carried a crew of be
Ha Promised Mult it Hughes Uuecn -loo and 5txi men.
h Nominated. I When the news ot the sinking of the Hampshire was received in
r-iiicAdfi. June t; i, soiute 'Loinlim a meeting of the British War Council was immediate! called,
mink." was the cniiuent of loin, Me. sjr William Rt.bertsuii, Chief ot the Imperial St.ift, who piobably will be-
irath, Ituosevidt s s( ret.ii v, to-elai 1 ,, , , , .t. rtt- - i , .. , - ..
on renor.s hero that the radh,,. wing,"111 tl,C ,,mJ "f ,hf U Jr UU: S,r blwUal Grt!V' for hoT-
ot the progressives haii the cidonei's t'ign Alfairs; Reginald McKeim.i, Chancellor of the Lxchequer, and David
ahsuraneo ho ,M.uid head a thud ' j0yj CiCorgt. Minister ot Munitions, attended the council.
party if Hughes iveie named by the
Ite publicans.
"Win n the Colonel bus anything to
s,l , , II siv It oii 'i.s ulln s,.n,i
tllie. II' I'"'. I p'lso foot. 1
Mi ; : rti
V1.,j
i For Racing Resulti See Pago 2.)
(Entrit on Pig 10)
MN
E
IKS HAMPSHIRE
WITH BRITISH WAR
AND HIS PARTY ON BOARD
Admiral Jellicoe Officially Announces
Sinking of the Warship as She
Was Taking War Minister Kitch
ener and His Staff to Russia.
NO TRACE OF THE VICTIMS
FOUND AFTER EXPLOSION
LONDON, June C It is announced by (lie Admiralty that Lord
Kitchener, British Minister of War, and almost his entire slatf were killed
on board the British ember Hampshire, which has been sunk hy a tor
pedo or mine off the Orkney Islands, on the northern coast of Scotland.
There was great loss of life among the officers and crew of the
warship. The Admiralty's statement indicated that the Hampshire was
torpedoed. The official announcement follows:
"I hTi to report nlth deep rprret thut Hit MnJestjN ship
Hampshire, Cnpt. Herbert .1. Sntlll, It. N with Lord Kllclienrr
and hl! slniT nn board, whs sunk last night at about b o'clock, tn
Uw vers! of tho Orkney'), either by a mine or a torpedo.
"Four boats rrei seen by obserrcrs on shore to Irate Ihe
ship. Tho wind was niirUi-northwest nnd heTj spas ircrc rn li
ning. Patrol tessrlte nnd eli'strojer.t ' ""'' proeccdeil In the spot,
mill ii part)' nus sent nlong Hie coast to search, but onl) miiiii'
linillf and a cnpslr.cd boul date been fiiiind up tn the present. As
the whole shore lint been searched from the ferawnrri, I griatlj
fear thai there In little hope of there being ail) Ntinlior.
"No report has jet been rerelred from the search purl) on
filinre. II. M. 8. Hampshire was on he r way to llustela."
Accompanying liar! Kitchener as his staff were. Hugh James
O'Beirne, former Chancellor of the British Embassy at Pctrograd and
former Minister at Sofia; O. A. Fitzgerald, Earl Kitchener's Private Mili
tary Secretary; Brigadier Gencal Ellershaw and Sir Frederick Donaldson.
Sir William Robertson tttfk over the War Secretary's duties tem
porarily when Earl Kitchener started on his Ill-fated journey. On Sat
urday and again yesterday he had audiences with King George. The Gen
eral has the full confidence of the country.
The main base of the British High Seas Fleet Is supposed to be in
the neighborhood of the Islands north of Scotland. For this reason it is
believed Lord Kitchener with his staff went to the Orkney Islands for the
purpose of reviewing the battle fleet before proceeding to Russia for a
I null to nuim.
Naval officers express the opinion that the cruiser Hampshire must
The Orkney Islands, off which
the north coast of Scotland. The
Atluntlc and around the northern end
the White Sea. Earl Kitchener probably Intended to debark at Archnel
The Hampshire was one of the Devonshire class ot six cruisers. She
w built In 1908, and normally orrld S65 mn. She dUplaed 10,850
L
tho Hampshlro went down, are ott
Hampshire was on her way Into thJ
of tho Scandinavian Peninsula Into
$
