THE ARIZONA
E PUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TY ENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDA Y MORNJ X i, ) I'XE G, 1916.
10 PAGES
A OL. XXY1I., NO. 19
I
ID H I
RIGHT OFF BIT
BUT ILL II
T
Conflicting Reports Are
lirculated Regarding the
Plans of the Progressive
Leaders, Sonic Favoring
Delav, Others Action
MA Y BE HELD VP
UNTIL SATURDAY
State Chairmen and Chkir
men of state Delegations
Are to Meet with Nat kraal
lommittee al Five o'clock
This Afternoon
OLD GUARD CONTROLS
CHICAGO SITUATION
(Special to The Republican)
CHICAGO, June 5. The city Is
rapidly filling Up with delegates. The
Congress hotel lobby adjoining candi
dates row, iV filled with surging
crowds. Glee clubs and bands of var
ious candidates are marching through
the streets and hotel lobbies. The
crowds are strongly for Roosevelt.
The local papers are sho.wing in
creased friendliness Mr him also.
While the old guard apparently
controls the situation a number of
their leaders have announced lor
Roosevelt, in spite of the fact that a
majority of the old guard are unwil
ling to accept him. They are also
opposed to Hughes. It is now evident
that Hughes will have, the greatest
strength on the first ballot. There
have been many conferences between
republican and progressive leaders.
The 1 itter are making every effort to
agree on some liberal candidate whom
the republicans are willing to accept.
The progressive national committee
meeting was held today and was at
tended by representatives from every
state. After endorsing the stand of
the executive committee in its work
for harmony adjourned until Tuesday,
when chairmen of state delegations
will meet with the committee.
While some pregressives favor the
nomination of Roosevelt on the pro
gressive platform, the majority senti
ment is first to exhaust every effort
to unite with the republicans on some
common ground.
The republican Roosevelt club is
making some headway with the re
publican delegate:-;. The situation is
very complex. The progressives have
insisted that before, they are ready to
consider accepting Hughes that he
must declare himselt' for Americanism
and preparedness.
Gov. Whitman of New York has
evidently assumed charge of the
Hr.gl.es movement. The New York
and Pennsylvania delegations are bad
ly ?t lit nj.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 3. Conflicting re
ports regarding a plan of leaders
beaded by George W. Terkins, to have
the progressive convention postpone
action uion nominations until some
tangible result upon a nominee is
icached in the republican convention
followed today's meeting of the pro
gressive national committee. Many
leaders favored the plan of delaying
action. .Mr. Perkins announced tonight
that the convention wculd not nomin
ate "right off the bat," but probably
would wait for a time at least.
On the other hand, former Represen
tative Victor Murdock of Kansas, na
tional ClMinmll asserted that the com
I'litlte had reached no agreement to
Withhold action upon nomination in
NATIONAL COMMITTEE FN
REPUBLICANS
ALL BAY
ON PFATFOOl
RUSSIANS BEGIN LONG
EXPECTED OFFENSIVE
AGAINST THE TEUTONS
WILL CONSIDER
OS 1
CONSIDERATION OF CONTESTS
FOR SEATS IN CONVENTION
,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire (and presented the motion by which the
CHICAGO, June 3. The republican j contest was settled. Victor l.oisel pro
national committee adjourned tonight tested against this action and said he
after disposing of sixty-two contests 1 might argue the case before the cre
for seats in the convention. During j dentials committee.
the last four hours of the session i Advocates of preparedness and or-
which voucoiueu ioui uajs, me inu.se , Kamzacions lavoring woman suiiragc 1 n(. belief that tins plan might result
I interesting decisions were made. They I will have an opportunity to present jn too great restriction and thus ex
I include the following: i their case under the most favorable elude manv in iiimiisi matters
-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 5. Although the
disposition among republicans is to
leave discussion of a platform to the
convention itself, consideration was
given today to outstanding features.
The advance preparation which
characterized other conventions has
been lacking, but Senators Lodge,
Borah, Sutherland and many others
in the senate and house have had
suggestions under consideration for
many weeks. These probably will
form the basis for discussion in the
committee on resolutions with the
convention as the final judge.
Every effort will be made in the
platform if suggestions arc followed
out to incorporate some progressive
party ideas. A recall plank probably
will not be approved by leaders in
platform framing, but a strong fight
made for an endorsement ofD
woman suffrage.
In what the three senators have
done for the first thought has been
to give the greatest prominence to
Americanism. Senator Sutherland has
gone so far as to suggest that this
word should be used as a key to the
whole superstructure, aH other dec
larations being built around a ring
ing pronouncement in favor of Amer
ican nationalism. Mis belief is that
not even a tariff plank could be made;
to fit into a declaration for Ameri
canism onlv.
While not committing themselves
entirely to this plan of procedure,
other platform , builders support an
out and out declaration for national -
i. in. Some i.t them arc inclined to
TEXT OF REPET
TO CARRAN7A
I 1
BRANDEIS TAKES HIS
SEAT ON THE BENCH
WASHINGTON, June 5. Louis
i II. Rrandeis of Boston today took
1 his seat as an associate justice of
i Lie supreme court, chief Justice .
White privately administered the
! oath of allegiance to the country. !
j At noon the court marched on to
! the bench. The new justice took ,
! a seat beside the clerk of the
! COttrt. When .Mr. Brandeis' com
i mission had been read the clerk
i administered the judicial oath,
i Mr. Brandeis was escorted to his :
1 seat on t,he extreme left of the
tench where he received the con-
gratulatinns of the colleagues near
: est him.
I
I
I I
. n
LODGE IT RE
FOR ROOSEVELT
l rvTTnll MTVP
flLA I I U KfLLM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. June 3.- After Senator
Lodge of Massachusetts had engaged
Prom Bofff Petrograd and Tsdeni Wilson and His
Vienna 'ome Reports that , ' abm5? Expected t. Dis
cuss Nature or Kcply to
Demand for Withdrawal
of Troops from 'Mexico
a Come Reports that j
Russians Are Actively'
Engaged from Pieipet
River to Russian Frontier
in a series of conferences with sup
porters of Colonel Roosevelt In both
the republican and progressive parties,
l hp . ..nceiil inn So did Kecretarv ( s-
perils:, I 1,1 1,11, e, 0,1 :ne . ..m t .1-: rv ci.rif 1 t.. .,.. ,i.r,nnitiu ro ,..,., , . . 1... ...... .
car K. L'avis and others. 1 isssne aiso are getting away iromiit was reported mat senator Lodge
Against these assertions. William W. j r"" tlf the convention any member of j Hons if the committee accedes to the the thought that the platform should will be for the nomination of Colonel
White, national committeeman from lh tn,'c contesting delegates from request of the national committee. l!y be exceptionally brief. j Roosevelt as soon as he is released
Kansas declared the committee hadjtne Oistrict of Columbia. I formal motion the national committee "We don't want to be uselessly pro-, from his pledge to support Senator
agreed to 'have' the convention post-1 Seating of hoth delegations from j went on record in favor of public hear- ! Hx," said Senator Borah soon after : Weeks. Over the telephone Senator
.one insideration of nominations un- ' Louisiana, each member with half a ings on preparedness and woman suff- bis arrival toda;. , "but se can not-and ) Lodge answered the report as follows:
til Saturda' awaiting republican ac-! v"te- ull(3 requesting! the delegations to 1 rage, the hearings to be held in the mast not overlook the fact that the "I have not said to any one that I
tion He said a -steering committee" 1 select Armand Romain of New Orleans, ! convention hall with the committee on republican party is out of power and! would support any one other than
bad leen nim.d to launch a publicity ! national committeemen in the place of j resolutions occupying the platform t,,at ,,ein tne cas'' ow u " the I Senator Weeks. I am going to nomiii-
ainpaign to boost Colonel Roosevelt Victor Loisel. j seats of the national committee. cbUJry to present a comprehensive , ate him and support him. Other than
ifluflA r...l,lien ,iio.oc H .J Decision that the committee on reso- Chairman Charles I) Hilles hr.rht ' Statement of the basis of our appeal voting for Senator Weeks, my mind is
O . -, J . L D
for with a republican committee look- j luuw.ns be asked to receive delegations I up the question of granting public
nig to joint nomination. from the suffrage convention in con. I hearings by announcing that many re-
Repablican A. P. Leased Wire
The long expected general offensive
of the Russians against the Teutons
has begun. Prom both Petrograd and
Vienna come reports that the Russians
are activily engaged from the Preipet
liver east of Brest -l.itovsk to the Rus
sian frontier a distance of about 250
miles.
The Russians everywhere are using
targe numbers of guns and men and,
according to Petrograd, have achieved
success. :: on many important sectors,
taking ! 1,600 prisoners and a number
of guns and destroying or capturing
Teuton positions.
Aong the Lessarabian front, in the
Daesitei region along the lower Stri
pa. and in Vclhynia, the Russian at
tacks have been partcularly violent.
In the region of Olyka in the zone of
the Voihynian fortress triangle the
Russian guns have shelled a front of
more than fifteen miles in length held
by the Austrian Archduke Joseph Ker
diand. Around Verdun bad weather has set
in and is a result the infantry of both
sides have kept to their trenches anu
only bombardments have taken place.
Xo vew changes in positions are re
corded.'' Around Vaux and Oamloup.
northeast of Verdun, the bombardment
on both sides lias continued-with con
sider;, ble Intensity while to the west of
the Heuse. the shelling has been 'only
intermittent.
On the lemainder of the front in
FYance, except around Ypres, the sit
for support, If we had a republican open.'
president his record might be Buffi- Soon after noon today Senator Lodge
-1- :., ; tf v... i. ha, I a Innir Calk with f Imtm W l.e-
Chairman Murdock, after the na- ference. and from preparedness or- ; qussts had been made for an oppor-1 ,v , . ",'.'. ... ."ikins i,.i,i' ,,f ! p vi. ,ihrpm
ionizations
tunity to present various subjects to
thus situated, we are called upon
say what we propose to do anil, in- I it was said then that the meeting was
1ioii.il committee? meeting issued the
lollowing statement: I ne District OI ( oiumota contest was i the resolutions committee. . ... ,,,, .. , ,,, held "In the Interest nf harmonv ao.t
I he c ommittee adopted a resolution oniony lougtu and an extension ot "It Is inevitable thiit the resolutions 1 miuf(,ir ,,f , ,,,.,,.., u-.. i "that candidates wi re discussed."
should not deny ourselves this op-! Neither of the participants, however.
lotiliimrng the action taken by the na-1 time was given each of the three con- j committee will hear some delegations
1 . . ...,,,, i . ..... ,rv .in, btiMi, . ,, .1 ... ......... I., . ... .1..., I
"" ........v u,,.,u... M 1 mip i.ivi. vv, ric..riii j i i . . . . i i . . : i . UI(VIUUV COU. pOltUllltV III Kill
pointed out that every event which Bad I their evidence. The delegation headed, are urging preparedness and those sup- 'dramatic.'
transpired s:nce January bad added by Aaron l.radsbaw charged ibat the
emphasis to the position of the pro-1 primary election was not authorized
grtssives. by the national committee and was
ICarly in the day Mr. Perkins met K.
porting woman suffrage ' said Mr. i As the draft stands it u at once ! A. Van Yalkenburg of Philadelphia.
Hilles. "I think this committee should -criticism of the democratic manage- 1,"hn T- Kin,i "f Undgeport. Conn.,
re.iuest the committee on resolutions ment of foreign affairs as vascilating ! Senator Penrose of Pennsylvania and
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON', June 5. President
Wilson and his cabinet are expected
to discuss at tomorrow's meeting the
reply to be sent to General Carranza's
note demanding withdrawal of Amer
ican troops from Mexico.
While it has been stated authori
tatively that the reply will niako
clear the administration's determina
tion not to withdraw the expedition
until the Carranza troops have shown
both the intention and the ability to
prevent bandit raids, there are many
other ijuestions raised by the note
which must be considered.
General Carranza's demand that the
I'nited States declare its intention
"toward Mexico in the interest of all
Latin-America" has aroused consid
erable discussion in diplomatic cir
cles. Some diplomats do not hesitate
to attribute it to the activity of for
eign agents at Mexico City, working
to offset President Wilson's efforts
toward a closer pan-American rela
tionship. They argue that the fact
that American marines have been
employed recently in Nicaragua, Haiti
and the Dominican Republic and that
American troops now are in Mexico,
may have been used by such agents
to discount the president's declaration
for pan-American amity. Some even
assert that a campaign is on foot to
prevent the United States from ob
taining permanently the trade with
South and Central America and Mex-
uation is reported q-iiet. About Ypres i lco formerly held in Europe,
however, th- Germans and Canadian. -Stite department officials refuse ti.
are continuing their violent fighting dlsCU8B that possibility and the re
that has heee in mr d President Wilson will make to t
v.eck when the Germans under a ter- apmand f,)r " expressions of disin
rifie rMin f h.ii ..e., a- I toiestedness has not been indicated.
'. . ', . . , I The demand mav be ignored entirely
positions which later were retaken in - . . .
the
hand to hand and bombing encoun
ters. Returning to the attack Sunday
the Germans a sain forced the Cana
dians to relinquish the bulk of the re
ca tured ground but the Canadians
are disputing strongly the efforts of
the Teutons to oust them from the re
ma irder of their positions.
Vienna reports that not withstand -
as other portions of the note, such as
the suggestion that American domes
tic politics are behind whatever the
president's action probably will be.
Retire from Rubio Ranch
CHIHUAHUA CITY. Mex dune &
The vanguard of the American ex
peditionary command in Mexico has
I retired from Ruhio ranch to Xami-
jug cue sruray resistance ot the Ital-1 nnlpa, thirty miles north, according
"State c hairmen and chairmen of therefore illegal. A convention was J to give public hearings on these ques- and unsatisfactory arid a pronounce-
state dt legations will meet with the na
tion l ccmniittee at five o'clock Tues
day afternoon. ,
All the national committeemen were
praaettt with two exceptions, one oc
casioned be illness and the other by
delayed trains.
"The executive committee was au
thorized to prepare an address to the
held after the primary election at'tions two hours after the adjourn
which this delegation was selected. 1 ment of the convention Wednesday
A third set of- delegates, headed by
Robert I. Miller, charged that the pri
mary election was permeated with
fraudulent voting and that the primary
officials were intimidated by the fol
lowers of Hogan. It was argued for
this contingent that it received a ma
ment in favor of the protection of
lives and property of American citi-
The proper place for these hearings ; wns at home and abroad.
would be the convention hall, where; T,u democratic direction of affairs
all the publicity possible can be given.!1" connection with Mexico will be at-
... : tacked with special severity as totally
(Continued on Page Five) i inadequate to the demands of the sit-
-
delegates of the republican convention! WMv ,,f th vntaa o, th i.nin,... ;
giving the reasons why the progres'- I which no charges of fraud were made. I
URGES ROOSEVELT NOT
TO TAKE BACK SEAT
sives urge the nomination of Theodore
loos"elt. Th's statement will be pre
pared launediaiely and published in
Successive motions were made to
seat the Hogan and Brads haw delega-I
tions. Roth motions were uilhflniivii
full probably on Wednesday morning when Chairman Rstabrook of New
and afternoon ir. the Chicago news- j Hampshire made a motion that none
papers. .... I " the contestants receive seats be-
I,.,,, man Murdock s statement was e ,,f irre(.ularUv of th(. Inelh.
the first official announcement that ous of &5ito and as a
7 1 """"7 preventive of further contests from the
c ampaign desixned to reaCh rftpubH- ! iu. , . ,.
, nn ,llo..l..u hero i hhlr ,.f D , I"r...ru I
....... . ,, , , I hardly a dissenting vote. The district j bearer "
If.l s can.lt(iae I. u-:iu I... ' 1
... ' , A, i was to have had two seats in the con-
progress, ve leaders as formal notice to: y.ntlnw,
lepublican ieaders that the progressives ' mi j , .
-.con . .io..i.i p. u .. I Tlu' a"W" i the Louisiana con-
.-..i i.runi .. - ii ..! ii ril'll t MP lliOt'
the colonel nominated.
OYSTER BAT, X. v., .lime 5.
Colonel Roosevelt made public to
nisjhl a letter received from !'. A.
Wiirzbach, president . f a bank in
-Vow York City in which Mr.
Wurzbach expressed the hope that
irrespective of what the O. '). P.
does you must not take a back
seat, but permit the people to
name you as their standard
nation, but no declaration for actual
i intervention in Mexico is contemplat
ion1 now. An army and navy adequate
'to the protecting of American inter
ests will be advocated as the best
Senator Hemmingway of Indiana.
During the dinner hour Senator
Lodge was with Former secretary
Meyer, the leader of the forces seek
ing the republican nomination for
Colonel Roosevelt and tonight there
nuc viiiiiririn ,n iTintiu nu I ill i. i
Lodge and other Roosevelt adherents. ! ' "' " ,lenBl" zont' but
Sena, or l.odce s sodden i n t imaov i thi' 1 111 Xh" :'Or.e valley, the La
the ir advance into Italy in the Cenguio
zone near As.ago. The town of Ce
siana. and SOD prisoners, three canon
and eleven machine guns and 1M
btimb throwers were captured by the
Austrians.
Rome admits the retirement of the
with the principal Roosevelt workers
garina valley, and on the Posina front
perturbation in
caused some
Weeks camp.
Probably no man was so close as
Semttur I odi.-e to I 'i, lor. el khwtvecelt
means o preserving peace and pro- , . ,, , ...
" , . 1 ; during the seven years be was m the
lecting the national honor. ... . , . . .
41, . ... ! white house. He alway s has been cred-
former president and even four years
ago. when temporary chairman and a
the ' Auterian attacks were repulsed with
neavy tosses.
In southern Albania in the region of
Avob.na. the Austrians have dispersed
Kith their artillery an Italian detach
ment operating- in that vicinity.
only the usual republican pronounc
ment in support of the people for
Acasta Not Destroyed
LONDON". June -The British de-
I protection, hut in addition there will ,m . Tllf, ;,.,..,. h. Istrorer aiM:, whUi, ,h. r:
bs an assertion of the inadequacy f ' gteoa uj vUrtal, a Roosevelt demon- I claimed to have sunk has arrived at a
the present tariff law to meet rr - j sUation and openly exulted in the Colo- nonheast coast port under tow of an-
ill lie asserted
Many delegates tonight were openly
ln,t i ..!., !. ., ,l,.l .: i - I
j in ntiiui urirKdm.il CIUUIIC'U a j
i rigni io i e seatea over tne regular dele-
outspoken against the delav. Some an- I " . l"c convention!
peared determined to force immediate! " "'u a Irom wnion "cgroes
nomination of Colonel Roosevelt on ' ww 1,arr("l- hi accordance with
Wednesday the opening day. Several , a ,,liln f'"nulated yesterday when
leaders expressed doubt as to whether' members of the committee essayed the
the delegates can be held in check and! r"''' "f mediators between the two',
remain virtual y idle until the mpuMl I fnrtWras
cans are deliberating. R. B. Howell of Nebraska asked for
At the meeting called for tomorrow the seating of the entire contesting
afteriicui with Chairman of all state delegation on the ground that the na
d-1 gallons it was understood, is to be tional committee could not counten-
i I . i , . . I .... I ., i I,.. l J - - I f .
..... .i.icu ..in uic oorsiiou oi ueiuying i am e he d sfra luhknual ,.f .h
the nominations. A final decision may nearo. Senator Km.,;.. A I
(Continued on ?age Three) neither delegation could be iirnored '
Pablo Lopez Pays Penalty
Before The Firing Squad
Republican A. P. Leased Wire showed, and then looking directly at'
CH 1111 ' AH I 'A City. Mex., June 5. the soldiers, said:
Pablo Lopez Villa's chief lieutenant in "In the breast, brothers; in the ',
the raid upon Columbus. SJ SI.; today : breast."
paid the penalty for his crimes, faring j All of the shots fired struck in or
a firing squad of constitutionalist sol- near the heart of the bandit, killing
diers at Santa Rosa, cnihuahua's place him mstantly. As he leaped forward;
of execution. .and fell motionless on his face the cus-
Lopez. who at the orders of Villa, ' tomary final two shots of grace were
massacred eighteen American mining ( fired. Although there were numbers of j
men at Santa Ysabel, Chihuahua, in ; soldiers and citizens present, there was
January and who is said to have di- not a sign of disorder. Lopez left let-!
reeled the movements of Mexicans at tiers to his wife and" to his father say-!
Columbus, expressed no regret. j ing that he hoped to meet them in the
The big clock in the Cuartel was j next life and urging them to believe
booming eleven as he faced the firing that he was not a traitor to his coun-
squad. The officer In command gave j try.
the orders to present arms. lrez i "Since my country needs my death,
raised his head smiled until his teeth I give it willingly," he said.
Sir. Wurzbach. who said he was
of German descent, asserted that
the opponents of Colonel Roose
velt of German descent were few
in number. Colonel Roosevelt re
plied to Mr. Wurzbach as follows:
"Nothing could please me more
than your letter. Americans of
German descent are in an im
mense majority straight-out
Americans who put the starsand
stripes above everything else. 1
would be absolutely willing to put
my appeal lor Americanism only
to Americans of German descent
and abide by th"ir say-so."
rue oeiiiaiais. u i-. ,n ne asseneu ,i..ri. .-
.that but for th.- stimulus of the 'war I The siate for ,ne presellt republican
business the l tnted states would IconTCntlori carries the name ot fleria
have suffered many hardships as alt. T.odire for chairman of the reso
lutions committee, lie was elected a
ih
Cnderwood-Simmons
result of
i law. wnne at me same time tne . delegale-at-large with Senator Weeks,
I treasury, would have been continu-1 former Senator Crane and Governor
jously empty. Promise will be made of a ticket which was opposed
an immediate revision that will be to by another ticket composed of Roose-
i J the advantage of the national treasury I velt men, including Representative
land of private business. A tariff Augustus P. Gardner the sentaor's son-
i I commission will be demanded in the in-law.
interest ot the staOUHy and equality J it will create surprise in the con
of the tariff. volition if it proves true that Senator
Most attention is to be given the, Lodge is prepared to go over to the
feature of the platform which will Roosevelt forces.
attract, the progressive party. To this After the last Lodge-Perkins con
end tentative planks have bee n pre-1 ference it was said that no definite
pared covering most of the distinctive proposals had been made from either
points of the progressive platform in faction and that only two names
(Continued on Pat.re Three i
(Continued on Page Two)
to a report to military headquarters
here today from Colonel Zuazua at
BastiBoa. Supplementing this report
were official advices to General Ja
cinto Trevino. commandant, that Gen
eral Gabriel Gavira in his recent con
ference with General Pershing, con
vinced the American commander that
the Slexican troops are now able to
occupy strong positions formerly held
by Americans and to continue the ban
dit hunt as they retire
fJM of the most aggressive Yilla
leaders, Jose R. Chevez. has sent a
long communication from the Haci
enda .Victoria in eastern Chihuahua,
to General. Iganco Ramos at Jlmincz.
offering to "assist his brother Slex
icans in fighting the coming menace
of the Colossus of the North."
General Trevino instructed General
Ramos to reply that the de facto
government will accept only uncondi
tional surrender and to point out that
if Chavez has a spark of patriotism
he will surrender, as have Canuto
Reyes Salazar and the other rebel
lious leaders.
Pershing Makes Inspection
COLUMBUS, N. M Juno S. Gen
eial .1. .1. Pershing, commanding the
punitive expedition, made an automo-
FIFTY NINE ARE REPORTED DEAD
IN TORNADO SWEPT ARKANSAS
other destroyer. The shell which put
her out of action, after she had been
in the thick of the fight for forty
minutes, exploded in the engine room
killing five men.
"After that we were helpless." said
one of her crew, "and with shells fall
ing all around us, we expected soon to
be sent to the bottom. Rut luckily
none struck us."
The admiralty in a communication ! hile tour of inspection of the base
tonight referring to aspersions cast by 1 encampment immediately after his
some newspapers upon the professional j arrival here. On his return to quar
oonduct of the higher command officers i ters tonight he expressed himself well
in the .Jutland battle says: pleased with the appearance of things.
"It cannot be stated too clearly that. He was accompanied on his rounds
as no definite report from the com-I by Major W. R. Sample, base com-,
ipander in chief has been published j maiider.
or even read any attempt to criticize It is learned that General Pershing
the direction of the operations must be had a long conversation over the tel. -
(Continued on Page Three)
(Continued on Page Two)
Kraemer Not Candidate To
Succeed Self As Secretary
..r Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LITTLE ROCK, Ark., June 5,
Fifty-nine persons are reported
killed and more th hundred
injured in a series of tornadoes
which swept Arkansas this after
noon. All means of communica
tion are crippled and it is feared
the list of dead and injured will
be grsfitly Increased by later re
ports. The dead thus far reported are
as follows:
Judsonta. White county, 25
known dead and 50 injured.
Heber Springs, 18 dead.
De Lark. Dallas county, 4 dead.
Cabot. White county, 5 dead
Hot Springs, 4 dead
Morrillton, 1 dead.
Greenland, Washington county, 2
dead.
Noith Arkansas appears to have
suffered most severely, although
the storm was general through
the state.
At Judsonia, one-third of the
town was said to have been swept
away. Twenty-five bodies and 50
injured had been taken from the
ruins at 10 o'ciock, reports said.
Also In Garland County
HOT SPRINGS, Ark., June 5.
At least four persons were killed
and half a dozen others were in
jured seriously in a tornado which
swept across Garland county late
today and through the southwest
portion of the city. The electric
light and power plant here was
put out of commission and tonight
the city was without lights or car
service. Many houses were demolished.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. LOl'lS, June f. J. Bruce Krae
mer of Montana, secretary of the
democratic national ooinmittee an
nounced this afternoon that business
reasons would prevent his continu
ance in office and that he would not
be a candidate for re-election. No
names have been suggested for Mr.
Kraemer's successor as yet.
Several national committeemen have
made inciuiry us to what part, if any.
William J. P.ryan will play in the
coming democratic convention. It
was stated officially that inasmuch as
Sir. Bryan was not elected as a dele
gates. Under convention rules Mr.
Bryan can obtain n. proxy only by the
withdrawal of a delegate and his al
ternate. Thursday will be a general speech
making day and the committeemen
now say. Sir. Bryan probably will be
asked to speak on democracy.
Oato Sells, committeeman from Tex
as, today obtained additional hotel
facilities for the Texas delegation,
which he said would be the largost
that ever attended a national conven
tion. William Poindexter who was
chosen to succeed Committeeman Sells
and Thomas B. Love, who contests
Poir.dexter's selection, will apiwar ne
gate nor as tin alternate he could only fore the national committee here op
speak to the convention with the I June i- to present their respective
unanimous consent of the 1,"94 dele- claims.
