EVENING
EDITION
VOL. U, NO. 134.
orio»nnein*#i
W:
ilio
mony
I
7
!,«
ROOSEVELT D® NOT SAY HEWOWD
OGtlT JUSTICE, SAYS PERKINS NO
IMMEEHATEOtANGEIMMNENTTODAY
Conferences Are Resumed, But They Have Not Proceeded
Far Enough to Clarify Situation—Hughes'
Speech Subject of Discussion.
Chicago, June 6.—The two latest eleynents to be
brought into consideration today are the Hughes' speech
in Washington yesterday touching upon American ism and
the discussion of Senator Lodge as a compromise candi
date for the republican nomination, likely to command the
support of Roosevelt.
Hughes' supporters pointed to his speech as a sub
stantial declaration on the question of Americanism, con
tended it cleared up the only issue on which the justice had
not previously announced his attitude- They contended
that his utterances he went on the supreme
„cojir tench,iii^e.€lg^ -his .position on alUpthcr.p^^moiintir
^issues, that inasmuch as the questiQaJpnAmimcanism has
AMAtiJ1 it'ifVi'i 'rl
arisen l^nee he Went ittl^'"tlK Sedusion of the court, his
statement, on that subject is the only thing to be desired.
Those .opposed to the justice characterized his speech as
"only a list of platitudes." Many charged the speech was
carefully timed for the present occasion.
The movement for the immediate nomination of
Roosevelt began to show itself early today. Progressives
opened headquarters in the Congress hotel, from which the
Roosevelt fight was directed four years ago, and early
Roosevelt boosters were abroad, stirring up sentiment and
enthusiasm.
Chicago, June Just before going into a conference with re
publican lenders, George Perkins, the Roosevelt leader, today Issued a
statement declaring that Roosevelt bad not said he would refuse to
support Hughes or any other man and assailed the Hughes supporters
for malting capital of his "preparedness speech" in Washington last
night.
Political leaders, who profess to be willing to accept any man for
the presidential nomination who is able to command the support of
both republicans and progressives, are trying today to determine
whether Justice Hughes lias been strengthened or weakened by the
temporary concentration of all forces upon him with the avowed pur
pose of eliminating Roosevelt as a republican possibility.
Unquestionable the effect of the Hughes drive has been to
the whole field of candidates against him.
The conference between republican and progressive leaden, which
lasted far into the night, was resumed early today, but it is not bettered
tint any of them proceeded far enough to clarify the situation within
the next several hours. At least for that length of time, no decided
change seemed imminent.
Practical politicians, on the other hand, almost unanimously held
to the view that the speech was without significance in the present sit
uation. They said it was the sort of a speech expected from a scholar
ly man on such an occasion. Some of them declared the words of the
justice were not unlike what President Wilson or Col. Roosevelt might
have been expected to say under similar circumstances. They made it
plain that (hey regarded the speech as a negligible quantity in the pres
ent situation. Nevertheless, It furnished subject for a great deal or dis
cussion both ways among the delegates.
PROGRESSIVES CAUSE MUCH CONCERN.
Almost overshadowing the maneuvering among the republicans
today is the Question of what the progressive convention will do when It
assembles tomorrow. Republican leaders regard It as charged with pos
sibilities of the most potent sort. On every hand they expect a tremen
dous demonstration for Colonel Roosevelt, despite efforts in some quar
ters to hold bade the nomination until the republicans have indicated
their purpose, and there has been an opportunity for further confer
ences between the two factions. The movement for a delay in the pro
gressive convention, however, has been met by the decision of the lead
ers to have immediate action, or at least not later, than Thursday. Vic
tor Murdock, Gilford Pinchot, Hiram Johnson and about thirty otben
at the conference late last night came to a decision that the convention
should nominate Colonel Roosevelt as soon as the nominations oould be
reached In the regular order of business and that nothing leas than a
leanest for a delay from Colonel Roosevelt himself should interfere
with the plans. They agreed that if their program went through and
the colonel was nominated at onee. Governor Johnson would take sec
ond place, as he did four years ago. All of the progressive leaders
striving for harmony realise the difficulty of holding the Rooseult en
dnutasts-from nomination beyond Thursday. Most of the progressive
were elected as Roosevelt men and they are ohafeag under
the luilnliil Imposed by those who are placing a demand for har­
above thft Interest* of thalr candidates.
Offer Entire list.
At the outset ,the regular republi
cans were Inclined .to offer the entire
list of candidates now in the field as
proof that they are not trying to
force any particular man upon the
progressives and to point out that the
progressives on the other hand have
but one candidate—Colonal Roosevelt
jnf tblt Harmony is far off until
the progressives show a willingness to
consider other names. The suggestion
of Senator Lodge, which came last
night, was believed to have been the
reSult of this brosid criticism of the
Drocresilve course. Republican lead
ers were disposed not to take the
Lodge suggestion seriously. The men
tion of Mr. Lodge as a ootnpromlse
only added to the skeptic
ism of the regular repoblloans con
oemlng the sincerity of the purpose of
3{£®rS3££«SSsik
Xt led to thsdlasloaurs.thatatths
eaS^oe aunday night between:
nunlber of prominent progrewtfree
and repnbltatns. the fomer^oOered
of Senator 'l*Follette and
Republicans If they would
The republicans 'limited!-
t*
vt
5-
Jr.
i£
COME TO NO AGREEMENT TRY TO
DETERMINE STRENGTH OF HUGHES
place
N. D. PROGRESSIVES
HAVE NOT DECIDED
UPON THE DEWY
Obiam Jons Ibe North
Dakota progreesive delegation,
through Chairman Dorr Ctafoll,
tdd Mr. Ferklns todny thatthey
had not decidedshout the plaa to
hold up the progressive
I °ta°"
w«le J. p,
from tlqtt state
da
S
YUAN SHI KAI
WX«!i?£
Late president of China who passed
away today.
YUAN SHI KAI
DIES CRISIS
NOMA BIDS
Leaders of Revolting Pro
vinces in Favor of Vice
President.
Peking, June Yuan Shi Kal
died today, and Premier Tuan Chi
Jul immediately advised 14 Yuan
Hung the vice president, of his
succession to the presidency.
Yuan Shi Kal was ill several days
with stomach trouble, following a
nervous breakdown.
Quiet prevails at the capital.
His death solves the political
oMs, as Iil Yuan Hang's succes
sion to the presidency meets the
demands of the leaders of the
southern provinces.
OFFICIAL NOTICE.
Washington, June •*—A cable
gram to. the state department to
day from American Minister
Reinsch at Peking announced the
death of Yuan Shi Kal, the presi
dent.
DEFIANCE AT
Speech in Reichstag Yester
day Causes Real
Sensation.
a
'•W ?t
«s \*S r*
I fi
Berlin, Jtana •.—(Vla London.)—iA
profound sensation wascaused by the
groat speech mads yesterday before
the tet^ateg by ChanoeUor von Beth
mann-HoDwefc In which hs declared
that any further suggestlons foir peaee
by Cknnany.wouldbe fuUle andeviL
His eloquent appeal to the nation
to hold on until victory is theirs and
the defiance he hurled at England
were greeted with, thundery of ap
plause. At the conetosloa. W received
a tremsndoos eyiUoa. AU partes
1
v*«
-|n
^sj.
ikaj*
*,5.
v"
fi
'i. -.: V,- tfcl •$&".
1
4
J'
-v &»
Jackson, Afiss., Visited To
day—^ight are Dead
There,
?V
OVER 40 VltTIMS IN
ARKANSAS TORNADO
..
Heber Springs Shows 18
Dead—Many Other Plac
es Are Struck.
Jackson,
Mlitet
June 8.—-Eight
persons,' si* of tfiem negroes, were
killed and about,ft0 others were in
jured hi ar tornado ivhich swept
this section todaj, demolishing
many homes.
The tornado's toll last nijtht and
today, according to reports received
here. Is:
Jackson—Two white and sis
negroes killed SQ injured.
Heber Springs, Ark.—Eighteen
reported' dead..
Cabot. Ark.~Threc dead.
Germantown, Ark.—One dead.
Judsonla, Ark.—Eight negroes
dead SO injured. Reports last
night said 35 were dead.
AIDE
TO BE Ollff
PLAITORM NOTE
Progressive Party Ideas
May be Adopted in
Part.
Chicago, June 6—Although the dis
position among republican leaders is
to leave decision on the platform to
the convention itself consideration
has been given to outstanding fea
tures. The advance preparation that
characterized other conventions has
been lacking, but Senators Lodge,
Borah, Sutherland and many others
in the senate and house long have
had suggestions under consideration.
Every effort will be made in the
platform. If the suggestions are fol
lowed, to incorporate some progres
sive party ideas. A strong fight will
be made for an endorsement of wom
an suffrage.
In what the three senators have
done the first thought
has
iV¥Pyf'P7-fPJ.'Fn TV
KITCHENER AND STAFF DIE WHEN CRUISER IS DESTROYED
i.J
s.V ^.
v? -r-
PRESIDENT OF CHINA IS DEAD TORNADOES CLAIM MANY VICTIMS
STOfM SWEEPS
been to
give greatest prominence to Ameri
canism. Senator Sutherland has gone
so far as to suggest that this word
should be used as a key to the whole
superstructure, all other declarations
being built around a ringing pro
nouncement in favor of American na
tionalism. His belief is that a satis
factory platform could be construct
ed upon that principle and that even
the tariff plank could be made to fit
into a declaration for Americanism
only.
While not committing themselves
entirely to this plan of procedure oth
er platform builders support an out
and out declaration for nationalism.
Some of them are Inclined to the be
lief that his plan might result in too
(Continued on Page t.)
LOUS W. till
AHINSTRATOR
Widow and Children Peti
tion for His Ap
pointment. 7-
St. Paul, June «.—Mr*. Jas. Hill
widow of the late railroad builder,
filed a petition in the probate court
of Ramssy county ta|« afternoon
signed by herself and sight children,
asking the Appointment of Ixuls W.
Hill, as administrator of'his father's
vast estate. Mr. Hill left no will. It
Is declared the heilrs followed' the
desire of the-father Mn- niuning Louis.
The vatoe of the estatf ls placed at
10,001,in the
mas*ty Corenai
true vahie will be lew
but this
'V *V s^y.-O -,* -n^v ,(V
GRAND FORKS, N. D_ TUESDAY EVENING, JUNE 6, 1916. TWELVE PAGES—PRICE FIVE CENTS.
EARL KITCHENER
4
I
Greenland, Ark.^-One dead, six
.w. Jftva killed.
Fou^kllledi:^.
Ark.^^Fmo killed.
T^ord Earl Kitchener, famous soldier
and England's minister of war, who
lost his life when the Hampshire was
sunk off the Orkneys.
GREATEST MEN
Organized Largest Volun
teer Army in History
of Wars.
WAS OBJECT OF
MUCH CRITICISM
But Without These Crown
ing Achievements, He Al
ready Had Won Fame.
Of several things that entitle'Earl
Kitchener to a place in world history,
the most notable is that he organised
the largest volunteer army the world
has ever seen,-in the greatest war of
all times/
Within a year from the sudden out
break of the European war in August,
1914, the ranks of British fighting
men were quadrupled by an increase
from less than one million to nearly
4,600,000.
AU other great powers that en
tered- the war had huge standing
armies and compulsory military serv
ice. Great Britain alone faced the issue
with confidence that its people would
readily respond to the call of king
and country without compulsion, and
the precipitous developments that led
to the war found both the people and
the government unanimous in the ver
dict that Kitchener of Khartum was
the man to lead in the recruiting and
organization of the necessary army.
It was not a sentimental olamor, for
though Kitchener was a proven hero
of many campaigns, his personality
was as impenetrable as hardened
steel, and he was not a hero that
could be loved even the war office
had no pronounced liking for him, but
on all sidsa there was profound re
spect for hie military efficiency and
for all ha had done to extend ths
domains at the British empire.
By meter-luck Kitchener happened
to be in England on one of the com
paratively rare visits that he had paid
to London during his long career
abroad, when the European war
broke out.: He had just come home
from service as British agent in
Eigypt, had accepted an earldom from
King George, and was being talked
of as viceroy of India. Within a few
hours after England's declaration of
war, Kitchener was appointed secre
tary of state for war and immediately
took full charge at .the war offloe
where he worked day and night to
overcome the handloap which the cen
tral powers had over England in the
matter of lighting strength.
He grimly told the British people
they had a bigger war on thslr hand*
than they realised, and one that might
last longer than they expected, but
It was to be faced with entire confi
deeoe, and he, unsmlttnr. ataupt like
a dehumanised machine, *et «feout te
make
things hum. He had pearoely
meved into Whitehall street whea he
made numerous changes in JOM per
sonnel of the war office, which was
sMd. to.lw honeycombed vM soda)
find political favoritism.
After dlapatchjng a .few tandfied
ousand regulars to Frenoe ^nd Bel
No
''"""^"f A:V^{
v' -W
E, CARRYING MINISTER OF
WAR, SUNK OFF ORKNEYS ONLY FEW
BODIES AND CAPSIZEDBOAT FOUND
HEAVY SEAS RUMWW, AID IT IS
BELEVED THAT All PHttSHH)
fWlR BOATS IffT DOOMED SUP
London, June 6.—Great Britain is mourning the loss of
her most noted military chieftain, Field Marshal Earl
Kitchener, head of the British war office.
Kitchener, with members of his staff, was aboard the
British cruiser Hampshire, which was sunk last night off
the Orkney islands, and it seems certain that he with all
others aboard the warship have been lost.
Admiral Jellicoe, reporting the sinking says the vessel
was sent to the bottom "either by a mine or torpedo."
Supposedly Kitchener and his staff intended to con~
suit the Russian military authorities regarding the Russian
offensive expected to relieve the Teutonic pressure on
Verdun and the Italian front.
The names of the members of Kitchener's staff have
not been learned. Sir William Robertson, chief of the im
perial staff, is in London.
Jellicoe's report to the admiralty follows
"I report with deep regret that his majesty's ship the
Hampshire, Captain Herbert J. Saville, R. N., with Lord
Kitchener and his staff aboard, was sunk last night about
8 o'clock to the west of the Orkneys, either by a mine or
torpedo.
"Four boats were seen by observers on shore to leave
the ship. The wind was north-northwest, and heavy seas
were running. Patrol vessels and destroyers immediately
proceeded to the spot, and a party was sent along the coast
to search, but only some bodies and a capsized boat have
been found thus far. As the entire shore has been search
ed I greatly fear there is little hope of there being any sur
vivors.
"No report as yet has been received from the search
ing party ashore."
BRITISH WAR COUNCIL HOLDS MEDTDI6.
When the news regarding Kitchener and his staff was received In
London, a meeting of the British war council immediately was called.
Sir William Robertson, chief of the imperial staff, who probably will
become head of the war office Sir Edward Grey, secretary for for
eign affairs Reginald McKenna, chancellor of the exchequer, and
David Lloyd George, minister of munitions, were present at the coun
cil.
Kitchener, who was appointed secretary of state for war on Au
gust 8, 1914, soon after the British declaration of war on German}-,
is regarded England's greatest soldier. There have been no .recent re
ports of Kitchener's movements.
The HarapAire was one of the Devonshire class of cruisers.
She was built In IMS, and normally carried (U men.
Accompanying Kitchener as his stsil were Hugh James OMne.
former counsellor of the British ejmbassy at Fetrograd and former
minister at Soda O. A. Fltagerald. Kitchener's private secretary
Brigadier General Ellerrtiaw and Sir Frederick Donaldson.
EVENING
EDITION
JELLICOE REPORTS DISASTER.
London, Tune'6.~XHrmraf Jellicoe, commander^of the^r
British grand fleet, has reported to the admiralty that the
British cruiser "Hajnpshire," with Earl Kitchener and his
staff aboard, has been lost off the west Orkney*.
Four boats were seen to leave the Hampshire, but a
heavy sea was running. Only one capsized boat and some
bodies were found. Kitchener was on his way to Russia.
Admiral Jellicoe reports that there is little hope that there
are any survivors.
ROBERTSON MOST LIKELY SUCCESSOR.
The first question asked when Kitchener's death was announced
"Who will succeed him?" lite answer Invariably was, "Robert
son, of course." Robertson, who is regarded as the only possible suc
cessor as the head of the British army, already had taken over tha war
secretary's duties temporarily when the secretary started on his ill
fated Journey.
As the war prostessed and Great Britain's deficiencies In certain
directions, particularly in regard to the shortage of artillery amnumi
tlon, became apparent, Earl Kitchener was subjected to severe criti
oism, led by Lord Noithdiffe. The secretary was charged with
spoiisibilitT for the failure to foresee the extraordinary demand for^v/""
heavy shells and as a result the ministry of munitions was formed
with David Lloyd-George at the head.
RBSFOarSlBILmES GRKATLY UHEHED.
Kitchener's responsibilities were further leasswed by the
ment of General Kir William ITnfrrrtrrnii rlrtrf nf Iftii Imiicli
December of lsst year. It was reported at the
Arisen bedvocn Kfttdmflr lteariiai. ammIl
mand of the British forces in IVaace. Shortly after the
of General Robertson, Field Mtonhal French relinquished
Notwithstanding the crittdm directed against Earl
great accomplishments during the war are recognised
BIS GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT.
FOresnost of his achievements I* the creation
mM^are^sM|glad for
AO
On Saturday
George to report activities on the
ens have
J5
I*
3?1
5
^•f§:
Fl
*V
#41
!«. i%
*1mb
