THE BARRE DAI
LY
VOL. XX NO. 70.
BARRE, VERMONT, , TUESDAY, JUNK 0, 1016.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
KITCHENER WAS LOST
WITH ALL ON BOARD
CRUISER HAMPSHIRE
England's Great War Lord and Organ
izer of Largest Volunteer Army the
World Has Ever Seen Went Down
While Proceeding to Russia on Secret
Mission From England Ship Was
Sunk West of Orkney Islands
GIRL INSENSIBLE,
BOUND AND GAGGED
CRUISER STRUCK A MINE
OR WAS HIT BY TORPEDO
Four Small Boats Were Seen to Put
Out From the Sinking Vessel But Not
a Single Survivor Has Been Found,
Although Some Bodies and a Capsized
Boat Were Washed Ashore by High
Seas
Lillian Connolly, 17, Victim of Assault
By Two Men at Island Pond Last
Night No Trace of As
sailants. Island Pond, June 6. Miss Lillian
Connolly, aged 17, was found insensible,
bound and gagged on Cross street, near
the corner of the Essex house, at 0:30
last evening. Her mouth was filled with
grass and her clothing was torn. Ap
parently the girl had been given some
drug as, after being given restoratives,
she was unable to tell a coherent story.
She muttered in, hardly audible tones
that she was assaulted by two men who
threatened to kill her. She was carried
into the Essex house and Dr. A. Ely was
called, but it was impossible to tell how I Music.
serious her injuries might prove to be.
state's Attorney Powell and Sheriff
Beeman have been investigating but have
not made an arrest. Miss Connolly's
home is in Norton and she has been do-
WEEK'S PROGRAM
AT SPAULDING
Will Begin with Prize-Speaking Contest
To-night and Will Close with
Graduation Friday Night.
The following is the week's program in
connection with the Spauldlng high
scnool commencement:
To-night, prize-speaking contest at op
era house.
Wednesday evening, Spaulding alumni
concert aim hall, school assembly hall.
Thursday afternoon, class day exer
cises, opera house.
Thursday evening, alumni banouet at
Hotel Uarre.
Friday evening, graduation exercises at
opera house.
Prize Speaking.
The prize speaking contest this even
ing will begin promptly at 8 o'clock.
J, he program is as follows:
, , .Murray
"The Parson's Convention"
Charlca Kalnh Olllvar
Th Little Gentleman" .Tarkington
Grace Irene Bixhy '
"A Call to Individual Responsibility". . . .Wade
Alexander Allen Mortimer
Music. "Spring Konir" Mendelssohn
Girl' Glee Club
"The Recompense" Donnell
Marion Winifred Anker
"The Man In the Shadow" Childs
Eldon Weeley Ball
"Captain January' Star" ..... Richard
Marguerite) Currier
"By Courier" ..Porter
Richard I rulckahank
'Croon, Croon" Rich
Girl' Glee Club
'The Heart of Old Hickory". . .Dromgoole
Georgina Macaulay
"Russia and the Jews"..... Stafford
Dean Chandler Davis
"The Bear Story" ., Riley
Madeline Jvicliouon Maedonald
CHINA'S BIG
MAN GONE
President Yuan Shi Kai of
the Republic Died
at Shanghai ...
SERVED FOUR YEARS
AT HEAD OF NATION
Came into Office When the
Empire Was Torn Apart
by Rebellion
AWAITING ACTION
OF CITY MEETING
ON PAVING MATTER
Shanghai, June 6. Yuan Shi-Kai, pres
ident of the Chinese republic, died yester
day morning.
City Council Will Also Get Legal Opinion
on Proposed Assessment Against the
Street Railway Company for Im
provements on South Main St.
Echoes of a supplementary conference
between the aldermanic street committee
and those who are near the Barre
Montpelier Traction & Power Co. were
heard at the regular meting of the city
council last night. The conference was
held last Saturday according to the re
port of Chairman Glyssdn, who acted as
spokesman for the committee, but the re
suits were scarcely tangible enough to
warrant a 'change in the conclusion
reached last Thursday, that traction neo
pie have thrown their cards on the table
At the fountain head of information the
street committee found only verification
of the first official poverty bulletin as
given out when General Manager H. S
Sands told a hard times story at the
joint conference June 1
Just at present the traction eomnanv
hasn't much more than money enough to
change a good -si zed greenback, much less
to buy bridges and paving, and mostly
on account of jitney competition, it was
said, the immediate proBpects for in
creased revenue are embarrassingly drab,
ing housework at the home of Frank Music "Onward. Bonny joat'
Russell in this village.
FORMER BARRE RESIDENT.
London, June 6. Admiral Jellicoe, commander of the British
jrrand fleet, reported to the admiralty that the British cruiser
Hampshire, with Earl Kitchener and starf aboard, has been lost
west of the Orkneys. Four boats were seen to leave the Hamp
shire, but a heavy sea was running. Only a capsized boat and some
bodies were found. Kitchener was on his way to Russia. Admiral
Jellicoe reports there is little hope of any survivors.
Accompanying Kitchener as staff were Hugh James Obeirne,
former counselor of the British embassy at Petrograd and former
minister at Sofia; O. A. Fitzgerald, Kitchener's private military
secretary ; Brigadier-General Ellershaw and Sir Frederick Don
, aldson.
The early reports said that thecruiser was sunk by a mine or a
torpedo.
: Admiral Jellicoe 's report to. the admiralty is as follows :
I have to report with deep regret that his majesty's ship
Hampshire, Capt. Herbert J. Saville, with Lord Kitchener
and staff aboard, was sunk last night at 8 o'clock to the
west of the Orkneys, either by a mine or a torpedo. Four
boats were seen by shore observers to leave the ship. The
wind was north-northwest, and heavy seas were running.
Patrol vessels and destroyers immediately proceeded to
the spot, and a party was sent along the coast to search,
but only some bodies and one capsized boat has been
found up to the present. As the whole has been searched
from the seaward, I greatly fear there is little hope of
there being any survivors. No report has yet been re
ceived from the searching party ashore. The Hampshire
was on the way to Russia.
There had been no recent reports ( of Lord Kitchener's move
ments, and there was no indication that he intended to leave
England.
When the news of the sinking of the cruiser Hampshire with
Earl Kitchener and staff aboard was received here, a meeting of
the British war council was immediately called. Sir William Rob
ertson, chief of the imperial staff, who probably will become head
of the war office, Sir Edward Grey, secretary for foreign affairs,
Reginald McKenna, chancellor of the exchequer, and David Lloyd
George, minister of munitions, were present.
Kitchener's death caused a profound sensation here, where there
had been a strong reaction in the public mind and Kitchener's pop
ularity and prestige appeared to be fully restored.
; :
KITCHENER BUILT
ARMY OF 5,000,000
. . Kueckan
The judges are Miss Agnes M. Rafford.
Principal Edward S. Abbott, and Frederic
Edwards.
Alumni Ball.
The alumni concert and ball, to be held
at the new assembly hall, is for alumni
and the graduating c!as of the high
school.
Class Day.
The program for the class dny exer-
Mrs. Philura M. Patterson Left the City
a Year Ago.
Funeral services for Mrs. Philura M.
Patterson wife of the late Hogea Pat
terson, a former resident of Bnrre, whose
death occurred at the home of her nenh-
ew, Walter Dow, in Bradford Sunday cilie 8 announced as follows:
night, will be held at the Iniversalist
church Wednesday afternoon at 1 o'clock,
the pastor. Rev. J. B. Reardon, officiat
ing. Interment will be made in Elm
wood cemetery beside the remains of
Mr. Patterson, whose death occurred W
years ago.
Until a year ago, Mrs. Patterson was
a resident of Barre, having resided for Essay. "American Mmic,'1
Addreas of Welcome. . Cyril Cornelius Marrion
Class History Eltiabeth Surilla Skinner
CUas Ode. "Veritas Renin."
Mavk Clair Barnett
Claw Will Donald Winnifred Smith
Music
Who Will Come with Me" fGl.iclO
The Owl and the Pussy-Cat' (Bullard)
Glee Clnh
Class Prophecy Rui Elisabeth Ana-ell
r.dmundr ranria I.o ranker
several ears in the home of Dr. E. B:
Whitaker of Merchant street. For 25
years or more she lived in Littleton, X.
H. Mrs. Patterson, whose maiden name
was Thilura M. Dow, was born in Marsh
field. She observed her 80th birthdav
Jan. 8, IPlf). She leaves a sister, who
resides in Wisconsin, and two brothers,
one of whom, Henrv Dow, is a resident
of ' Marshficld. Mr. Patterson made a
large number of acquaintances during
her residence in Barre and was held in
high esteem by all yho knew her.
GRAN1TEVILLE MAN WEDDED.
Loraine Heater Claire Irfiranfter I third honor)
Presentation to School Wendelin John Beck
Address to Graduating: Class,
Winona Eunice Oneill
Music Angela That Around Us Hover,
Glee Club
From "Maritana
Alumni Banquet.
The alumni banquet will be held at
Hotel isarre Thursday evening, and a
large attendance is expected.
Graduation Exercises.
At the graduating exercises in the op
era house Friday evening, the speaker of
the evening will be Prof. Chauncey Brew
ster Tinker of Vale college. The pro
gram for that evening is as follows:
In recent years Yuan Shi-Kai had be
come the most conspicuous personality of xhat was the gist oj the story as told
tne unent through nig enorts to bring tne committee. When the report was
his 400,000,000, fellow yellow men into finished the ways and means department
line as citizens of 1he new republic, of resumed its deliberations, but inasmuch
China. The task of turninir this most " one or two legal points in question
ancient and backward of kingdoms into hai not been cleared, up it was decided to
... .... . II - J. a I. ii 'J. r-M a. iii.
a republic within whose confines there " - -anornry
was a fifth of the world's inhabitant a " '"hart is expected to give the commit
republic four time as large as the United tee . law nI then the special city
States was obviouslv no easv one and meeting win oe nem 10-morrow evening
the man who attempted it did not escape to determine whether the electorate is
storms of criticism from those who held ready to bond for the city's share of the
that he was a dictator, virtually found- Pavwg and bridge project.
ing a new dynasty. But among" foreign- 0ral expression was given to the opin-
ers generally Yuan Shi-Kai was given
credit for as able an- administration as
could be expected under the circum
stances.
ion that the Tenney eomnanv, which pur
chased the intcrurban line along with the
power holdings, would recover in time
from any disaster in the form of an in
junction that might visit the little road
and it was recalled that the company,
despite its plea of poverty, was recently
able to finance the nureRase of another
T 1 t f 1. - , - it- mi a ft c I 'I
ju.m j. wjfuw iu n.s jusi-uiss o- power privilege right over the line out-
loon at 248 North Main Street. side the city limit on Washington street.
ri.:L ... .. i i i i l i .i.s , -
(,. . l,.,-;,, u, iu !:,.-- , I " iimvru .nun mio .iiumeu to re
a. ut.uit ..c i.tcunc v,.u,-i , ... ., ... . ,, , ... ...
mission in the council chamber at eitv ""l"k . V'" B"i me r.r.y
GRANTED LICENSE TRANSFER.
to get in on the ground floor, or words to
that effect, where power privilege are in
Philip Clark Married at Burlington to ) senior March
Woman from Moriah Center. N. Y. f,!". u. . ..
.n i iiifii in iriay ,,.,,.n.,cuivTr
Burlington. June 6. The marriage of .. .. s",ior "V-0?.0""., 4
. .. , . . . . .. I Readme: TTie Surn of the Cross' Barrett
Ida Manraret Josephine Caruai (second honor!
Commencement Address "Work and Leisure"
Chauncey Brewster Tinker,
Professor of English literature. Vale college
Music "Peacefully Slumber" RandiKger
Chorus of Senior Girls
Essay "The Fachion of Poetry''
IU . U . . I , A H. I
mib uimcsinaiu, ami ."inn ;iriiiT.yre, I Presentation of Diolomas
nephew of the groom, was the best man. I School Hymn
The bride wore a blue traveling suit
with white hat and carried a bouquet
of white carnations. The bridesmaid
Miss Anna iSeckington of Moriah ten
ted, X. Y., and Philip Clark of Granite-
villa was solemnized at St. Marv's cathe
dral ye.-terday morning at 7 o'clock, the
Rev. A. Hugh McKenna officiating. Mis
Alice Seckington, sister of the bride, was
" lonn itiriic Hum o,, .until n. . . . . ... .
itreet to 248 North Main street, in the Tnney company might be getting ready
wilding recently purchased from the do"W t 'Mhrased on the
.nnite Savings Bank & Trust Co. by "J?."?" known
hall this morning at 9 o'clock, John J.
fa.,,... ..... , ,.i ....... r ..f u ; ,
I T hn niarlnl if it-oa tunnAetorl that thn
first.,, li I 1 ;..,. t. frnm 3(11 Vnrth ta
street
bui
iw it a i- r, j i." Iconcern has lumped the cost of gasoline.
(eorge M. Marrion, A. W. Badger, who J ' 15
conducts a furniture store in the Morsel An Oiling Petition,
block, on premises adjoining the Marrion In the matteivof dispatch, the council
property, objected to the transfer on the put a crimp in all previous records by
ground that a license in that location transacting a small accumulation of rou
would decrease his business 25 per cent, tine business and then adjournins. Jo
C. W. Perry, who admitted that he is the seph Taft appeared with a rcqueet that
legal owner of the Morse block, said that .Merchant street hill be sprinkled along
such a move would mean a loss of with other Sections of the same thor
BODY IN RIVER
THAT OF A. PURO
Decomposed Remains Partly;
identined by Papers in
the Pockets
DISCOVERY MADE
AT TROW '& HOLD'
There Are Some .Scions
of Foul Play in His
Death
(KH) per year to him. Mr. Badger pre
sented a petition, signed by several bus
iness men, objecting to the transfer.'
In presenting hts case. Air, Cavhue
questioned the consistency of the pro-
testants in objecting to a legalized es-
oughfare. Among the things that come
out of the north, Mr. Tat't said, is a
strong wind that sometimes blows the
dust around Merchant street in an ob
noxious manner, especially along the flat.
Later Merchant street hill was mcor-
G rey McKe rro n.
At the Presbvterian parsonage on Wel-
wore a blue suit with white hat andllington street this noop Mrs. Catherine
carried pink carnations. After the wed-1 McKerron of Laurel street was married
ding ceremony a breafat was served atlto Lornan Grev of Harre, the ceremony
the' home of the bride's aunt, Mrs. A. I being performed by Rev. Kdgar Cross
Cota of 57 Hyde street. Mrs. E. Kirby land. Bride and groom were unattended.
and Mrs. S. Arnold presided at the ta- Mr. and Mrs. CJrev are to make their
ble. Mr. and Mrs. Clark will reside at home in this citv.
Oraniteville.
tablishment, when it was obvious, as he I pointed in a resolution authorizing the
said. that, they had failed to pretest the street committee to proceed as usual
alleged illicit sale of liquor on the same with the sprinkling program of past
premises as well as at the rear of the years, the same schedule of streets m use
Morse block. Mr. Lay hue intimated that last season being designated. Oil or wa
he proposed to doe good deal in the way ter is to be used at the discretion of tl
of cleaning up the premises at Xo. 248. committee. The resolution was adopted
In granting the transfer, the license j unanimously and the oiling will beg
commissioners stated that no Ieeal ob-1 this week.
jections had been raised in the matter.
After the hearing adjourned, licensees
of the second class were arraigned on
the carpet to answer to a charge that a
disclosure by a posted man in city court
Actions and Reports.
Permission was given the water com
mittee to muke main extensions at
cost of $1.050, divided as follows: Rai
road street to Berlin street $273, Belv
journed.
MILLAR PUTNAM.
"Starting with Trained Force of Only a
Few Hundred Thousand Men, He De
veloped Greatest Volunteer
Army World Has Seen.
Karl Kitchener as appointed secre
try of htate for war in August 1914, a
few days after fireat Britain s declara
tion of war on Germany. He was regard
ed as England's greatest soldier, and not
w itli-fanding the criticism directed
sgaint him. Kitchener's great accom-pii.-h
incut during the war were univer
sally recognized. The foremost of his
achievements was the creation from Eng
land's untrained manhood of a huge
rmv. At the beginning of the war
Great Britain had only a few hundred
thousand trained men. To-day more than
o.(H).(xi are enrolled in the various
branches of the service.
All other great powers that entered the
war had luifre Manding armies and cfm
u!ry military ervii- Great Britain
lone faced the iue with confidence
that its people wxuld readily respond to
the call of king and country without
rmpulion. and the precipitous develop
ments that led to the ar found both the
j-eople and t'ie government unanimous
in the erdict that Kitchener of Khartum
a the man to lead in the recruit ing I sere out the
nd organization of f-e ne,-srv army.
He grimly told the British people they
I ad a bigs'T r nn their hand than
they realie-I. and one that miht Ut
J..rffr ' .tr tHev er-e,t'i. twit it
t I f.vr.1 ft entire ei ntideti-e. and
e. unstr.i ire. alnn-M like a dehuman
S 1 marine, set ahntit make thine
in He fcad .sre!T biH iuf A ?!
VAUX ASSAULTS '
AGAIN REPULSED
BY FRENCH FIRE
Barre Manager for Tenney Co. and
Springfield, Mass., Woman Wedded.
In Springfield, Mass., Monday. June 5.
Miss Minnie Selina Putnam of that city
was married to Clinton F. Millar of
Barre, son of Mrs. C. C. Millar of this
city. Only near relatives and intimate
friends of the bride and groom witnessed
the ceremony. After a wedding trip to
Hoston and -New ork. Mr. and Mrs. Mil-
INVITE YOUR FRIENDS TO VISIT YOU
DURING THE FARE-REFUNDING SALE
Fares Will Be Refunded, Even if the Prime Purpose Be to Visit Relatives and
Friends in Barre This Will Give Them a Great Chance to Kill
Two Birds with One Stone: Shop and
Visit at the Same Time.
The Times wishes to make a sugges
lar are to return to Barre. Thev will hellion, and we might go still further than
at home after August 1 at 4 Cliff street, this and request that our Barre readers,
when writing to their relatives and
Paris War Office Announced Failure of
Two German Efforts to Make Head
way Between That Village and
Damloup Fort Also
Bombarded.
Paris, June 6. Two attacks bv Ger
mans on French lines between Fort Vaux
and Damloup on the Verdun front were
repulsed by the French last night, ac
cording to-the war oflice. Heavy bom
bardment of Frt Vaux continues, with
intermittent cannonading on the west
front.
,Cc"'ini on f 'crta fae.)
TALK OF THE TOWN
Five candidates took the degTee work
at city court thin morning, four of their
number going to the county jail for re
pitM of vwrying length. George J. Hill
of Montpelier, who pleaded guilty to a
first offense of intoxication when ar
raigned before Magistrate H. W. Sentt,
paid the minimum fine and cots. being
the only one of the quintet to settle.
Kodnev MacJVmaM of South Rverate.
lited aa an habitual drunkard, took a
sentence of 30 days in juil and decided to
iternative of an additional
The bride has been an occasional visit
or in Barre and numbers many friends in
this city. Mr. Millar is the Barre man
ager for the C. H. Tenney Co., which has
extensive power holdings in central Vermont.
A GREEN GRANITE COMPANY.
Has Been Incorporated Barre Men In
terested. The American Green Granite company.
Inc., of Bnrre has filed articles of as-
friends within a radius of 3(1 or 40 miles
of Barre, tell them about The Times' big
co-operative fare-refunding sale to be held
by the merchants of this city from tat-
urdav, .lime 17. to Saturday, June 24. It
will be a splendid opportunity to kill two
birds with one atone. I hey can come to
Barre durine this big sale and do their
shopping and make a visit at the same
time.
Not onlv are the merchants going to
refund the fares to all out-of-town cus
sociation with the secretary of state, tomers during this sale, but in addition
with capital (dock of $,VKHt, organized to this inducement they will offer special
to do a retail granite business. The bargains to the buving public in every
subscribers are Waldron Shield and Earle line of merchandise.
R. Davis of Barre and Simeon Garand of One of our subscribers telephoned to
Montpelier. the office this morning to make inquiry
Articles have also been filed by the regarding the fare-refunding feature of
Farmers Feed and Produce Co., Inc., of this sale She has a sister residing in
Grand Isle, with capital stock of $1,000. 1 Bolton and is writing her to come and do
Ihe company is to deal m flour, feeds, I her shopping here during tne nig co-oper-
groceries, farm machinery, etc., and there ative sale ana at tne same nmc mane a
are seventeen subscribers. Ivisit. It is a splendid suggestion and The
Harre Daily Timca wishes to encourage
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES. the movement among all of its readers.
Barre has never before inaugurated
Charles H. Barton, Granite Manufacturer, syh a great and comprehensive co-opera-
tne traoinsr event a mis, in wmcn tnc
Files in Bankruptcy.
Rutland, June 6. Charles II. Barton, a
merchants of the c it v are eomhinine to
shnu- the r,fciHmf& of the siirroundin?
Barre granite manufacturer, has filed a ,rrito rv ,hp adanatc of cominc here
recently had included all licenses of the d,rp t) Humbert strr.t U2i, circle street
Clin Tt irm wui.l that the nrnnm .
,,k-. v., v tensions are in line with the recommen
dation of the New England exchange en
gineers.
Granite street residents, petitioning
for lughwav and sidewalk improvements
had their communication referred to th
street committee with instructions to in
vestigate and report. The street com
mittee recommended first B. Gasparello
be given permission to move a garage
and henhouse from Franklin street to
Bolster place with the reservation that
the buildinc inspector approve of th
new site. Reporting on the protect of
Mary and Samuel Carswell. the commit
tee recommended that the protest be dis
missed, inasmuch as the nuisance re
ferred to by the protestants could be
ahated if curbing is established at their
Avers street property. The lighting com
mittee recommended that a 2."0-watt
light he swung at the corner of Reck Icy
and North Main streets. The reports
were accepted. On the favorable report
of the building inspector. . D. Parry
was granted a jeriiiit to erect a garage.
12x12 feet, on Grant avenue, and the
inspector's Mav report, referring to 2S
minor permits granted, was accepted.
Inspector Gilherton of the wiring de
partment. recommending permits in the
following eaes, permits were granted:
Presbrey Covkendall Co. to wire for an
electric crane and re-wire ofTioe; E. M.
Anderson, to wire bouse at 1.14 Elm
street: E. H. Edwards, to wire bouse at
145 Washington street; A. Fine, to
change wiring at id Maple avenue; levi
Bianchi, to wire for a fan and ."00 candle
power lamp in bis pool room: Epislie &
Wright to wire for outdoor light at .157
North Main street; Montpelier A Barre
Eight 4 Power Co.. to install 14 domestic
meters; .T. J. Cavhue. to wire saloon on
North Main street.
Big Warrant List Ordered Paid
Warrants were approved for parment
as follows: hirnimchani I en o., f,.2..
supplies; .Inhn Front ini !0 cent. .Ion
petition in bankruutcv. He has liabili
tiea of $17,673.30. of which !o.050 is
to trade. There is no city in the stat'
where trading can be dune nnre advan
unsecured claims. He has asseta ot I3.- U,,,,. th,n jn parre, and in quality.
776. of. which $XV is claimed exempt.
Among the creditors are about 25 em
ployes who are owed from $2ii
each in wages.
$15 fine and cot. Nicholas Garter of
Lyndonnlle, who claims no kinship with
a certain writer slims prolific contrihu
tins bulk large in eontemrrry Amer
ican bterature. arknnw !i!gl a first of
fense and wert to nil. .cr'-e Vt of
tiarre ht'UN a rrt on r-e an.i took given, and Mrs. BaUhelder was present
ie jsii senten.e. t narics . Mr.nran edinl a rears nhTiptii
VVr.,. fV. N. M.. will serve an a'terna- Home Journal. Ice rream and cake were
t've frt nfe?ie wnifiif in b"i of pay-j served bv the ladiea. and a pleasant ao
ir; f re and c-Ms a-rrejn! ing $11.55. jc ial hour followed.
The neighbors and friends of Mrs. Per
sia Batchelder of east hill railed on her
yesterday afternoon and helped her cel
ebrate her "1st birthday. They found
Mrs. Batchelder at work in her flowcT
l'd. There was no question about her
expettins guests. A short program was
ption to The Indies
variety and general up-to-dateness of her
stores. Barre is far superior as a tradinc
to -frtO center to cities several times her sue.
Remember, the fare of every out-of-town
customer w ho comes from any of
the towns named in the schedule will be
refunded. Rural residents who do not
travel here via the railroads or trolley
line will have an equivalent of their
fare r funded also, so no ore will be
dsrrinvnatcd acint because he does
not happen to lue along a railroad.
And rerrtcm'wr a!o yon wiM not have
to trade any certain or definite amount
at anr one store Tra !e where von I
this office and get the price of your rail
road or other transportation fare.
The special inducements to be offered
by the Barre merchants participating in
this trade movement will certainly be
sufficient to recompense all who take ad
vantage of them.
The Times assures all visitors from
outlying sections, especially those who
have not heretofore come to Barre to
trade, that they will he given cordial
welcome, fair and honorable treatment
bv our merchants, and will learn to their
full satisfaction that Barre is the best
retail trade center in this portion of the
state.
Where to Get Bargains.
Following are the merchants who have
already united with each other in an ef
fort to bring people to Barre to do their
shopping during Tne limes big co-opera
tive sale. Taste the list in vour hat for
future reference, so that vou may know
where to find genuine bargains:
A. P. Abbott Co., Dept. Store.
The Homer Fitts Co., Dept. Store.
Union Dry Goods Co.
Union Clothing Co.
F. H. Rogers & Co, Clothing.
Rogers' Walk-Over Boot Shop.
Moore & Owens, Clothing and Shoes.
Shea's Shoe Store.
A. W. Badger & Co, Furniture.
Feople'a Shoe Store.
Lamnrey Clothing Co.
The N. D. Phelps Co, Hardware.
Mrs. W. F. Shepard, Millinery.
Mrs. Flora Foster, Millinery.
The Vaughan Store, Dry Goods.
B. W. Hooker It Co, Furniture.
Tilden Shoe Co.
Frank McWhorter Co, Clothing.
C. W. Averill & Co, Hardware.
Barre Creamery Co.
Rockwood Studio, Photographs.
Marrion's Cigar Store.
The above list is in no w ise roirplete.
as a great number of the merchants have
not vet been seen. However, a represen
tative of The Tim will rail on all the
mercnanis oi i.arre na give irte-n an op- j mj
. . . 1 t . . 1 . , ' 1 1 . V . . ,
'please w-nn anv ot tne irrcrams oi inejoigger me ue oi ,). unj ine gyea tt
I ,t. and whtn vou are thrtV-i come to the opportunity of the buvirf fuHLc
A Nye $4 50; O. ,T. L. Mitthews fl4.."A
Martin Riler fl.50. A. M. Ko-i ?4..v.
account of assessing tates; p. if. J?an.
croft, 1 ft. services, street department ;
F. C. Bancroft. $U".22. ha v. street ae-
count; Barre Savings bank, assignee. $3.-
lno. pavment of street truck: R. E.
Chrk. $lfi7. feed, street and fire account-;
engineering department. $rt3 05.
work performed: Good Roads Machinery
Co.. $1.V repairs, sfeef account; J. A.
fclyd. art. 15. work, street account; D.
. vj.les ol Co .V.7.1. cl. street
and fire accounts; Morttpcljer A Barre
Eight A Power Co.. .VS1, street. Irchf.
streets, euv otiui-ngs anl pre ac-
portumtv to unite with those who have i courits; New Eng'siid Road rhinerT
already s'gn:fid their intention t'f Jar- f Co.. $!'"'J. brooms; Paisrei Campbell. s.
ticspating in the sale. The more bit- irstiesn.. .street account: racnuet Bros,.
hants who unite in the tnow-njent. the i $...". Isre-. street an l nre accounts; N.
(Cortmii'd on f fth pag.)
Ste vens' branch gave up the badly decom
posed body of a man, believed to be
Adolph Puro of Graniteville, this fore
noon, the remains being found at a point
some thirty yards below the Trow &,
Holden dam off South Main street. Ufa.
chinistg working in the shop across the
stream from Brooklyn street made the
grewsome discovery when someone hap
pened to glance out of an open window
toward the opposite side of the branch
at 11:45 o'clock. Supt. E. M. Tobin, to
whom the machinists communicated their
scovery, liurnedlv notified police head-
uarters and later Health Officer Charles
01 liver was called to view the Win-
Mystery surrounds the affair as there
are. circumstances which tend to support
the theory that the man met with foul
play. Alderman A. E. Bruce was one of
the first to reach the hank of the river
after the body was discovered and be
fore it had been removed to A. W. Badg
er & Co.'g undertaking establishment Al
dermen A. M. Rossi and C. H. Reynolds
looked at the remains. Orders were left
ith the undertakers to hold in abeyance
preparations for burial pending a de-
Biiru investigation.
When the authorities came to exam
ine the man's personal effects it became
vtdent that the deceased was Adolph
uro, a Graniteville ouarrvworkcr. who
ft Barre Town three or four weeks
ago. Identification was expedited by a
Socialist due book, in which the dead
man's name was entered. Stamp tes
tifying to the decadent's regularity in
the matter of paying dues indicates that
he had closed his account with Granite
ville Socialist local May 1.
On the ma n's person were found a gold
watch of the Walt ham brand, bearing
the number 461199, a chain and a charm
which appeared to be the emblem of a
horseshoers' organization. In the vest
pocket was a fountain pen and in a hin
pocket the police found a wallet contain
ing seven dollars in bills and $1.15 in sil
ver. The entry book issued by the So
cialist party in Oraniteville was inscribed
with the man's name in his own hand
writing, apparently. Puro, if it develops
that the identity is complete, was a man
of ,12 years of age, his friends say.
How long the body had been' in the
water is a matter for conjecture. The
police join with the machinists at the
Trow Jt Holden plant in believing that it
must have been washed over the dam
sometime during the night. Possibly it
may have lain on a rock in a little eddy
formed by the rapids below the fall ail
the forenoon. Sheltered by bushes, the
body might not have been noticed, except
for a casual glance across the river, for
several days. The man was garbed in
blue suit, soiled at the time of the dis
covery by the mud and water. - A man of ,
medium height, apparently he was well t
dressed when he met his death. The ac
tion of the water had so transformed his
features as to make him wholly unrecog
nizable. In the absence of anv phvsi-
cians. Health Officer J. W. Stewart being
out of town, expert opinion as to how
long the man had been in the water was
not available. In the opinion of the un
dertakers, however, it was said that Puro
might have been drowned nearly a month
ago. hen the hodv was discovered, it
lying face upward on a rock.
When Chief Sinclair and Officer J. W.
Dineen arrived on the scene, the body
was held fast in the stream seven or
eight feet from the shore. Efforts to
fasten a rake about the man's belt prov
ing futile, Isaac Corev, who was on the
South Main street side of the stream,
orded the branch and proffered his serv-
ices. It was .Mr. Cnrev who grappled for
the liodr with a rake and finallv ucceed-
1 in towing it ashore with the aid of bv-
tanders.
Soon i.fter the notebook was found on
he man's person, the chief got in touch
ith Sec. I. . Suitor of the quarry
orkera' international association. At
is office in the SCainpini block, Mr. Suit
or examined the rolls of the Graniteville
nd Webtervil!e locals and discovered
the name of Adolph IUro thereon. Then
he secretary got in communication wilh
ndrew Minn, a blacksmith at the
larry of the Barre Granite & Quarry
o. in ebsterville. Mr. Mann, in turn.
umnioned his friend. "Andrew Vinner, a
compatriot of the missing Puro. to the
lefftione.
Mr. Vinner said he would hasten to
Barre and complete the identification, if
possihle. (Questioned more in detail, Mr.
Vinner said that Puro left Granttevilie
either three or four weeks ago. on a
Thursday, ostensibly bound for some
other quarrying district, although he did
not state definitely his destination. At
that time he carried a small sat. hd with
his personal ftelnncyincrs Tfe nlannprl f ,-.
take the train at Barre. Mr. Vinner said.
His description of bow Puro wa-s dressed
as he left Graniteville tallied well with
the appearance of the man pulled out of
the water this forenoon. Mr. Vinner
nt on to sav that Puro was around 32
years old. had been active in the Socialist
local, and was without relatnes in Amer
ica, lie was a native ot Unlsnl.
The watch found in the man's waist--oaf
ha l stopped at 12 oYhvk. accord
ing to the police, rvamination of nu
merous Kniises ahout the man's hod r had
been deferred thi afternoon, pending the
srrival of a physician. A oern cleft in
the head gave rise to the theory that the
man had been rougUv handled but Ihe
evp'snation was adnced thst the body
night !.ae been t by rtsks as -t
tame down the branch arl f.rallv wegt i
over t ':- waterfall. ,
