The intelligent, common sense
workiiigmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today* with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom
pen.
VOL. 23, NO. 38.
Ti
Employers Generally Like It and
Declare It Helps to Promote
Efficiency.
UNION LEADERS SEE
IT IN GRF V^^VGER
Rank and File of Men Not
a/v*o/
by Employers' Profit Shar- ",p iions to Discredit
ing Schemes.
NEW YORK, April 27.—One of the
most exhaustive reports that have
ever been made on the various profit
sharing- plans that are in force or
have been tried in the United States
•was made public by the welfare de­
partment of the National Civic feder­
ation. Civic workers have been en­
gaged for 12 months in investigating
more than 300 so-called profit shar­
ing schemes, and their report covers
-00 plans.
The report itself comes to no set
conclusions, for or against the profit
sharing idea, but it devotes more than
260 pages to an exposition of the
many plans in force today or tried
and many plans in force today or
tried and abandoned, and sets forth
a group of interesting opinions and
discussions both from prominent em­
ployers and representatives of organ­
ized labor.
George W. Perkins. Charles M.
Schwab, Samuel Gompers, president
of the American Federation of Labor
Warren S. Stone, grand chief of the
International Brotherhood of Loco­
motive Engineers W. D. Mahon, pres­
ident of the Amalgamated Association
of Street Railway Employes, and
many others are quoted at length.
Workmen Oppose Profit Sharing.
The leaders of organized labor ap­
pear unanimous in opposition to the
general theory and practice of profit
sharing, while a large number of the
employers consider profit sharing a
success.
"Many reasons," says the report,
"are given by the employers for their
faith in the idea. Among these are
that it promotes more continuous
service, reduces cost of production,
secures more regular attendance at
work, builds up confidence, and cre­
ates co-operation, gets rid of rolling
stones, and encourages home building
enables the company to keep its em­
ployes during rush seasons, induces
salesmen and others to work harder,
promotes efficiency, interest, and loy­
alty, and increases the profits of the
•business.
"Yet." the report continues, "em­
ployers who have had experience on
the subject are by no means a -unit
as to its practical value. Some ex­
press disappointment that their ef­
forts were not appreciated by the
men, that they were suspicious of the
employers' motives, and that they in­
sisted upon poining unions and pre­
senting demands in spite of the com­
panies' efforts to give them an extra
share of the business.
"Would Weaken Unions.
"Among the points raised against
the profit sharing among the trades
unions the chief is, that the interests
of labor as a whole would be im­
periled by any weakening of strong
organizations to protect wage stand­
ards which, under profit sharing,
would pass wholly under the control
of the employers.
"Another objection by organized la­
bor, which it must be acknowledged
is borne out by the statistics of many
of these experiments, is the profit
sharing chiefly affects only the super­
intendents, foremen, and higher
gcades of employes and does not
preach the rank and file."
SECURE EIGHT-HOUR DAY.
WON'T HELP BREAK STRIKES.
ALTOONA, Pa., April 27.—The lo­
cal branch of the state employment
"bureau has been notified by state offi­
cials not to furnish strikebreakers to
any person, firm or corporation that
is a party to any industrial dispute.
(From "The Survey," New York.)
Seventy-five miles north of Duluth,
I Minn., lies a group of low hills extend­
ing about 50 miles east and west,
I known as the Masaba range. Along
the southern slopes of these hills there
is clustered a group of villages and
cities Which are in the heart of the
greatest iron ore deposits in the
United States. Of this country as it
really is, most people know but little.
Even in Minnesota the residents of the
older part of the state have vague and
variant ideas of what the ranges are.
That there exists a group of cities and
villages so closely connected that they
form one big community of 60,000
people, is just beginning to become
apparent.
Foreigners In Majority.
Half of the residents of these min­
ing townp have come from Europe
and 40. per cent are the sons and
daughters of immigrants. According
to the Minnesota Abstract of the
Thirteenth Census (pages 625-6,)
native born of native stock form but
Advances In Operating Costs Not
Due to Increase In Train­
men's Wages.
ADD TO TRAIN LOADS
MORE THAN WAGE RAISE
^statistics Used By Rail-
Managers.
CLEVELAND, Ohio, April 27.—
Any advances in operating costs of
the railroads have not been due to
added outlays to transportation em­
ployes. Train and engine crews have
given to the transpotation companies
more than they have received in in­
creased rates of pay. This fact is
clearly shown by the reports of the
railroads themselves to their stock­
holders and to the Interstate Com­
merce Commission. Although engin­
eers, firemen, conductors and trainmen
have received some advances in rates
of pay during recent years, they have
had to work harder and have handled
more traffic each year for each dollar
of additional compensation received.
They Are Pieceworkers.
Transportation employes are piece­
workers. They are engaged in hand­
ling freight and pasenger traffic. The
requirement for a standard day's
work is to haul so many tons of
freight or so many pasengers 100
miles. If the weight of a freight
train is increased the cost to the rail­
roads in handling each ton of freight
100 miles is less.
The constant increasing of train
loads has been the predominant fac­
tor in recent railway operating pro­
gress. The growth in weight of trains
has been more rapid than the ad­
vances in rates of pay to transporta­
tion employes. Engine and train
crews have transported proportion­
ately a greater volume of freight than
they have received increases in wages.
As a consequense, the labor cost to
the railroads of engine and train
crews has decreased.
Labor Cost Is Less.
During the course of the recent ar­
bitration between the Western rail­
roads and their engineers and firemen,
it was shown that the proportion of
total operating expenses arising from
paynrients to transportation employes
was 14 per-cent less in 1&13-than-in
1890. In 1913 it was also shown that
wage payments to transportation em­
ployes required only 19 cents out of
each dollar of revenue earned by
Western railroads in 1913 as compared
with 21 cents out of each dollar of
revenue in 1890. When considered on
the basis of freight tonnage, it was
found that it cost the railroads for
wages to locomotive engineers and
firemen 65 cents for each 1,000 tons
carried one mile in 1890, while, in
1913, engineers and firemen transpor­
ted 1,000 tons a mile for only 33 cents,
a decrease of cost to the railroads for
these employes alone, during this
period of slightly more than 50 per
cent. It was also shown further by
exhibits submitted during the Western
Arbitration that during the more re­
cent years, 1900-1913, the cost to the
transportation companies for wages of
engineers and firemen decreased 12
per cent for each 1,000 tons of frieght
hauled one mile.
It is apparent from these facts that
the productive efficiency of transpor­
tation employes has increased faster
than their rates of pay. To produce
these results for the railroads they
have had to work excessive hours.
The present movement for an eight
hour day is, therefore, a reasonable
request by transportation employes to
participate in the results of their own
labor, not primarily in terms of dol­
lars and cents but in form of a shorter
work day.
HORSE LOSING WAR USE.
Purchases in the United States of
horses for use in the European war
zone are reported to be slacking to­
ward their their inevitable end.
A horse is of no use whatever to a
soldier in a trench.
WANTED: MORE ALIENS
10 per cent of the population. Of
these immigrants only 35 per cent are
from Scandinavia, Germany or Great
'Britain. The remaining 65 per cent
come from Russia, Italy, Austria or
the Balkan countries.
Those who come from the region of
the Balkan states live very much like
cattle. The typical privately owned
boarding camp has a long' table in a
room downstairs with a stove near one
end. The food, seasoned liberally
with garlic, is placed on the table and
the men bring out their eating uten­
sils, like as not, from under the bed
clothing, and devour the food. The
walls may be lined with bunks, one
over the other. All the beds are al­
ways kept warmed, the day and night
shifts alternating with each other.
Send Money Back Home.
These people send most of their sur­
plus money home, and when they have
accumulated enough they expect to re­
turn. They are mostly illiterate, and
may never learn the English language.
Xhey do not, and will not, enter agri­
culture. The inadequate scale of
wages which prevails is riches to them,
and they can afford to loaf through
the winter months for the prospects
of summer work. Sunday is no dif­
UNION LABOR MAKES
The Labo# Forward Movement begins Sunday. It
is to continue for ten days. There will be in Duluth.
during the campaign a number of representatives from
National and International trade unions. Some of the
very best labor speakers in the country will be here.
These men will talk on the philosophy of the trade
union movement from every conceivable angle, and the
non-union workers of the city will be urged to join
with the union men to strengthen the labor movement
here.
This is the last opportunity left for The Labor
World, before the campaign begins, to plead with the
non-union workingmen of Duluth to take advantage of
the occasion and to affiliate themselves with organized
labor.
No worker can give a single valid reason why he
should not be identified, with his fellow workingmen
in «the great labor movement, and why he should con­
tinue to remain outside of the breast works of organized
labor. There are no reasons to give. All the argu­
ments in the case are on the side of organized labor.
The most bitter opponents of union labor recognize
that labor's salvation is in organization. They admit
it. They object only to the methods employed and the
tactics in use. The largest employers of labor in the
country know, down deep in their hearts, that the work­
ing classes would not have gotten anywhere were it not
for organization. They all may not admit it, but some
of them have done so.
The three representatives of the employers on the
United States Industrial Relations Commission, after
going into the question most thoroughly, stated in their
minority report. "We say frankly that if we were
wage earners we would be unionists, and as unionists
we would feel the keen responsibility of giving the same
attention to our trade union duties as to our civic du­
ties.'
Pretty broad statement this, and it is also a pretty
good hint to the non-union workingmen of the country
to become a part of the only movement that has been
of any material use to labor a movement that has
raised the wages, shortened the hours of labor, im­
proved working conditions generally, restored industrial
liberty and brought sunshine and happiness into the
homes of millions.
In the face of facts, facts mountains high, all of
which tell of the achievements of the trade union move-,
ment, how any honest and conscientious workingman
can remain aloof from his fellow workingmen in that
movement, surpasseth understanding.
Some men refuse
to
UNION MEN ASK RAILROADS
FOR NATIONAL COMMITTEE
•CHICAGO, April 27.—Representa­
tives of four brotherhoods of railroad
men today delivered to the Associa­
tion of Western Railways a request
for the appointment of a national
committee to deal with the union
representatives in the matter of their
demands, recently submitted to the
^railroads of the country, for an eight
hour day and time and a half for
overtime.
FAVOR CHILD LABOR BILL.
WASHINGTON, April 27.—The sen­
ate committee on interstate commerce
has ordered that a favorable report
to the senate be made on the Keating
Owen child labor bill.
MACHINISTS REDUCE HOURS.
ALTON, 111., April 27.—Through
conferences with the Illinois Glass
Works company the Machinists' union
has reduced hours at this plant from
54 to 50 per week.
ferent from any other day, and they
prefer seven days' work to six. Of
such matters as sanitation or proper
respect for women, and other factors
of American progress which we deem
vital, they know nothing.
With such people acting as a dead
weight pulling down the wage scale, is
it any wonder that labor receives an
insufficient return to support an
American standard of living? With
this dough labor over-abundant, em­
ployers canot be expected to keep
wages high. When a representative of
a lumber company was asked hgw
much they paid their lumber jacks in
the camps, he replied, "That depends
upon the supply of labor." When
these immigrants are pouring in, in a
never ending stream, the available
supply wiii .be large, and wages cor­
respondingly low.
Their Low Standard.
Moreover, this ever ready supply of
labor is an invitation to make Industry
morq seasonal than it needs to be, and
thus aggravate unemployment. Em­
ployers have not needed to look to the
morrow. It has been taken for
granted by every one that when labor
is wanted it will be on hand. Why
should they bother about keeping men
employed the year around* especially
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PROOEESS.
DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, APRIL 29, 1916.
join a trade union because a«?
they say, they are such good workman it is not neces­
sary for them to shoulder the responsibilities of mem­
bership in a union to obtain union wages, union hours
and union conditions. Is not this a selfish position for
any^workingman to take? It is not only selfish it is
foolish. The so-called union wages, union hours and
union conditions enjoyed by some non-union men were
secured by organized labor and they can only be main-'
tained by organized labor.
The non-union men who enjoy the good things that
organized labor has secured are merely riding on the
crest of the union wave. If all workingmen took this
It
is
movement
COMPANY NOT LIABLE
FOR SEAMEN'S LIVES
MILWAUKEE, April 27.—The Ed­
ward Hines Lumber company is ex­
empted from liability for loss of sea­
men on the steamer C. F. Curtis in a
storm on Lake Superior in November,
1914, by an order signed by Federal
Judge Geiger Monday.
Geiger ruled that the vessel was a
total loss and restrained all suits
against the company.
Marie W. Jennings, widow of Jay
P. Jennings, master, has filed a claim
before the Illinois industrial com­
mission and Lorinda J. Noll, .widow
of Julius W. Noll, assistant engineer,
had filed a suit for $20,000 in the
circuit court.
COMPROMISE WAGE DEMANDS.
FAL RIVER, Mass., April 27.—The
Painters' union has accepted the wage
offer of painting contractors to raise
wages from 37% cents an hour to 41
cents. The workers' original demand
was 45 cents.
when many of them are men without
family and only the despised "Bo
hunks" anyhow? If-nine-tenths of all
workmen of marriageable age on the
range had families, the companies
would have done much more than
they have to relieve this situation
else they would have found them­
selves short handed when the rush
season came on.
There is much evidence at hand just
now to substantiate this point. Im­
migration has practically come to a
standstill since the war broke out, and
with a busy winter behind and the
prospect ahead of a boom year in min­
ing this spring, as a result of the great
activity of the steel trade, brought on
by the war, there is much talk of an
expected labor shortage.
Fear Labor Shortage.
The lumber companies have paid
practically \00 per cent more for men
in the wooas this past winter than
the year before, and have had diffi­
culty in securing sufficient numbers.
Miners' wages have advanced, and yet
the mining concerns are wondering if
they will be able to get the labor they
need this summer.
Of course, the steel "boom" is par­
tially responsible fa* this. But another
explanation clearly is that the hund­
APPEAL TO
saane selfish position wages would come down, labor
conditions would become more severe and then the non­
union man who prides himself on being such a good
workman would suffer with his fellows in the general
degradation of'all labor.
hoped that the non-union workingmen of Duluth
will see the light during the next ten days and affiliate
themselves with organized labor. As has been said before
Ife are particularly anxious about the unskilled worker.
No workingman needs the assistance of organization so
ittuch as does the unskilled worker whose wage today
has less purchasing power than at any time in the last
60 years.
The unskilled workers who are not organized should
recognize
the value of organization and join the labor
at once. No able bodied worker in Duluth
should be paid less than $3.00 a day. Such a wage
scale can be secured and maintained only by and through
the power of organization. Employers will not gener­
ously hand it out to them. The wage increases they
give
their employes are mere dribs and drabs, just
enough to keep workingmen hopeful but never satisfied.
The increases in wages received through the power of
labor organizations usually amount to something, and
when they are once secured the union is in a position to
fight against reduction. The non-union man is most
helpless when jobs are scarce and men are plentiful
and he is forced tp take whatever wage the boss is will­
ing to give him.
Now it is just as easy and just as simple to main­
tain an organization of unskilled workers as it is an
organization of skilled workers. Men who say that
the American Federation of Labor is only for the skilled
tradesmen do not know what they are talking about.
More than half the membership of organized labor con­
sists of the so-called unskilled workers. Critics of union
labor say that on account of present industrial methods
men do not follow the same trade or occupation from
year to year and hence a staple trade union of un­
skilled workers is impracticable. Their conclusion is
wrong, it is organized labor that gives stability to
men occupations, and none know this so much as do
the employers of labor who have had experience with
unions formed among their employes.
Every Duluth workingman, union and non-union,
should attend the meetings to be held the coming week
at the various churches and public halls in the city. The
next week should be a time for great thought among
Duljxth's working classes. It should be a time for work
ingpen not only to think of themselves, but to make a
snrvey of their home conditions, the opportunities- that
are denied to their children, the sacrifices made by
their wives, all because the family income is low. There
isn any necessity for the family income being low, it
can be made higher. It will require only a labor or.
ganization, and in a remarkably short time the lights
will burn in his home brighter than they ever burned
there before.
Let every workingman heed this call for organiza­
tion. Now is the time and this is the hour. The salva­
tion of every laborer is through organization, aiRf
through organization alone.
CHINESE GIRL STUDENTS
OFFERS THEIR SERVICES
KANKOW—Fifteen girl students of
the Girls' Agricultural school in Yun­
nan, under leadership of Miss Mou
Chi-cheng, offered their services to
the revolutionary government as
soldiers in the ranks. Tang Chi-yao,
the revolutionary leader who is direct­
ing recruiting at Tunanfu, praised
the patriotism of the young women,
but refused to enlist them as soldiers.
He placed them on the reserve list
of the nurse corps.
LABORERS RAISE WAGES.
SCHENECTADY, N. Y., April 27.
Laborers' Protective union No. 14,953,
affiliated to the American Federation
of Labor, has raised wages from $1.88
to $2.40 per day without a strike.
ROCKFORD, 111., April 27.—The
Sheet Metal Workers' union has se­
cured the eight-hour day and wage
increases, to take effect May 1. These
gains were made through conferences.
reds of men left idle winter after win­
ter, and practically destitute in the
winter of 1914-1915, have been gradi*
ally drifting out and now with immi­
gration cut off, there is not the cus­
tomary influx to take their place.
When the unemployment problem is
keen, as it was two years ago, there isf
everywhere much discussion of send­
ing all the surplus labor supply of our
cities to the farms. And there are
hundreds of thousand^ of acres in
northern Minnesota that are still to be
cleared. But the truth is many of
these foreign people do not and will
not enter farming.
Employers Want Them.
The employers of labor, the landed
men, contractors and a few others
profit by the arrival of these rough
laborers from Europe &nd pin al­
ways be expected to preachj that
Amerioa, as the land of opportunity,
should not close its door to its
brothers from Europe. And others,
secure from the deteriorating influ­
ences, may regard the immigration
movement with tolerance.
But ttaless we wish to see workmen
suffer, and our standards of living
pulled down, we must stem or control
this tide of immigration. For the pres­
ent, at least* the European war 'is
*'nne3
LSU REPORT
Authorizes Publication of 100,000
Copies of Famous Review of
Labor Conditions.
WILL BE DISTRIBUTED
FREELY AMONG PEOPLE
Report Is Greatest Revelation of
Industrial Situation in Amer­
ica Ever Made.
WASHINGTON, April 27.—The
House of Representatives, without a
dissenting vote, passed the senate
joint resolution which provides for
the printing of the report and testi­
mony submitted to congress by the
United States Commission on Indus­
trial Relations.
Chairman Barnhart presented a
favorable report from the commit­
tee on printing as soon as the house
met.
Representative Moore of Philadel­
phia, asked Barnhart a few questions
relative to the methods by which
Congressmen might best distribute
the report.
Speaker Clark thereupon put the
question on the final passage of the
senate resolution. When the speaker
called for the "Noes" there was abso­
lute silence.
Four Months In House
"The 'Ayes' have it, and the reso­
lution is agreed to," exclaimed Clark.
The report of the Committee on In­
dustrial Relations was laid before the
house of representatives by the
speaker on Dec. 17, 1915.
On Jan. 12, 1916, the house agreed
to a concurrent resolution for the
printing of 100,000 copies of the final
report.
Theresolution went to the Senate
Committee on Printing the same day.
The Senate Committee reported out
the final resolution on Feb. 18.
During the following two months
several attempts to secure considera­
tion in the Senate for the resolution
were blocked by Hoke Smith of
Georgia, whose hostility to the re­
port was due to the way the commis­
sion lifted the bid from the cotton
mills of Georgia.
Finally* on Monday of this week,
on a yea-and-nay vote demanded by
Senator Poindexter of Washington,,,
the resolution was placed definitely
before the Senate and passed.
Demand Will Be Great.
The resolution provides for print­
ing 100,000 copies of the report prop­
er, 10,000 -copies of the exhibits.
The report proper, which makes
about 500 pages, contains:
1. Th£ report of Basil M. Manly,
director of research and investiga­
tion. This report is signed by Frank
P. Walsh, chairman of the commis­
sion John B. Lennon, treasurer of
the American Federation of Labor
James O'Connell, vice president of
the American Federation of Labor,
and Austin B. Garretson, of the Order
of Railway Conductors.
2. The report of Commissioners
John B. Commons and Florence J.
Harrimon.
3. The report of Commissioners
Neiustock, Ballard and Ashton.
4. The report of Commissioner
John B. Lennon on industrial educa­
tion.
5. Supplemental statement of
Commissioners Lennon and O'Con­
nell.
6. Supplemental statement of
Commissioner Walsh.
7. Supplemental statement of
Commissioner Garretson.
8. Supplemental statement of
Commissioner Ballard.
A SAFE INVESTMENT.
If you do not believe in a good in­
vestment do not join a labor organi­
zation.
If capital could find as safe invest­
ments as a man has that joins a labor
organization it would invest its last
cent.
doing this. Partly as a result there
have been no wage reductions in the
lumber mills, lumber jacks have been
well paid, the working men have for
the most part been engaged through­
out the winter, and miners' wages
have advanced.
Must Check Immigration.
This situation which has formerly
brought aliens to this country in quest
of religious and political liberty has
most disappeared, and the flow of im­
migrants has become largely a purely
economic phenomenon/' declared
Prof. E. A. Ross, University of Wis­
consin, in a speech in Milwaukee,
Wis. He said that those who come-to
America without their families and re­
turn after they have enjoyed for a
time the high wages -of the American
labor market are continually increas­
ing.
"The influx of immigrants from
southern Europe, with their standards
of lower living than those who form­
erly constituted the bulk of immi­
grants to this country, have caused
acute industrial, social and political
problems, particularly in American
cities," continued Prof. Ross. "The
influence of immigrants, as a whole,
in recent years, has been to delay the
advance toward the best things of
Tile working class movement to
most effective most be conducted
the workers themselves in the in­
terest of the workers. It will not
dominated by the so-called in
tellectuals or butters-in.—Gompers.
I
TWO CENTS. i«
St. Paul Building Trades Unions
In General Demand For Bet­
ter Conditions*
WAGES HIGHER IN MOST
CASES THAN IN DULUTH
Believed Employers Will Readily
Agree To Claims For
More Wages.
ST. PAUL, April 27. (Special)'
The near approach of May day has
awakened in this community a very
general interest in the attitude of the
labor unions, the demands they are
making on the employers of their
members and the prospects for peace
or war in industrial lines of activity.
It is gratifying to be able to state
definitely and positively that the
outlook is altogether cheering and sat­
isfying. Everything is serene. Not
one cloud darkens the sky of St. Paul,
and all the building trades unions are
well pleased with their present status
and their prospects for the coming
year.
The building crades are united in a
determined effort to obtain union shop
conditions for the members of their
several crafty and this is all some of
them are asking for. The carpenters,
the plumbers and the steamfitters are
asking for nothing more, and will have
no new demands to make for some
time to come. These and all the other
•building trades unions will, however,
keep on working for the union shop
without any abatment of their energy.
Plasterers Ask for Liberal Raise.
The plasterers are striving to get an
increase of 60 cents a day in their
wage scale, which will raise their pay
from 62% to 70 cents an hour. They
work eight hours a day with a half
holiday on Saturdays.
Cement workers have made, a de­
mand for an increase of 40 cents a
day, and they and the plasterers fully
expect to get what they are asking
for.
Union painters in this city are now
getting 50 cents an hour. The union
has put in a request for a lift of 5
cents an hour, which would make
their scale $4.40 a day. The matter
has not yet been settled and. negotia­
tions on it are still pending, bjit it
seems probable that ^h§ pew. rate will
go into, effect next Mondial"
Sheet Metal Workers Ask es?£ Cents,
A raise of 7% cents an hour -will
satisfy the sheet metal workers, and
they are making earnest efforts to get
it, with good prospects of success.
They now are getting 55 cents an
hour.
By vigorous and judicious efforts
the hod carriers have already obtained
a wage scale, of $^t a day and union
shop conditions, which are decided
gains for them, as heretofore their
pay and working conditions have been
rather irregular and uncertain.
The metal lathers have'made a de­
mand for a wage of $5 a day, and the
demand has been granted by all except
two of the employers. These are ex­
pected to yield to it and probably will
do so by the time the new building
year starts. The wood lathers are ask­
ing for $4.50 a day and they have
every reason to believe they will get
it without trouble.
Tile Setters Good for Two Years.
Everything is pleasant for the tile
setters for the last two years. They
have made a- two-year agreement with,
all their employers with a wage scale
of $5.25 a day for 1916 and $S.50 for
1917.
In accordance with a three-year
agreement made two years ago iniside
electrical workers will advance 25
cents a day from May 1, making their
scale 56% cents an hour.
PATTERN MAKERS RAISE WAGES.
NEWARK, N. J., April 27.—The
Pattern Makers' union has raised
wages to $5 a day. An agreement
has been reached with employers
whereby the present scale of $4 25
will be gradually increased until June
1, when $5 will be paid.
public life, and in politics has given
the bosses an opportunity to intrench.
Whatever it may have been in the
past, immigration has grown to be a
problem affecting the very soul and
perpetuity of the American people.
No other problem before us compares
with this problem.
"Since the beginning of the century,
immigrants have -been coming* at the
average rate of 1,000,000 a year, and
at least 10,000,000 of them have re­
mained.
Where They Come Fran.
"The sources of immigration, have
greatly changed in the course of is
years. Formerly the hulk of the im­
migrants that came from the British,
Scandinavian and Germanic countries
possessed much of the background
we possess and blended readily with
one another and with the native
Americans.
"The sources have shifted eastward
until Constantinople has been about
the center of the field supplying -im­
migrants.
"The only two wayi tb restrict im
migration are by numerical: Restric­
tion, or by the literacy test. The only
practical test is one thfct can be ap­
plied by the immigrant ft imself, before
he sells out and tran^rtoJ^ flunily
to thULCOtintnjCr^ 'v
\4-
4
