y?
m- f.
r
1 1-N AK C1AL E D IT 1 6 N
POSTSGMPT
4
I-
PHILDjEJLEQIA., SATURDAY, APIlIfc 20, l&'i?"5e''M' p'm'
. . ' -- ... . i : ' ' - -t'- "' ''r ' ' "'-r ' iT 7 rTV.
j H -.. i j .. .,,..(, . .- '.fa( ..i , .. ,- ,..,,,. ,.i-i . " ','.''' "'l '.,':-.
'V'' ',itr- 'in ' .
-US
TEUTONS AGAIN
ML IN -FJERCE
VERDUN DRIVE
STONEMBN AKDTHElPt CHIEF 0F FOR'PISBURG
-. -''.
!'
V
. A
r
.JE:i;NJ
t
r
;-. .. - 4 CfcTPHl
EDITION
",p"' i""t w wniiiiiiwiwiiii.iw i n hwiw - - --'- - - - .'..- . . , . r, . . . . . f t j r r. i t . , Aa laaaaaaaafciaa , A-fi m J ,. , , SiiM
, ,t vtu. jgHaj.wMf.t ai
ip m nn mii i aii $m ii sj
VfflSfe',j
I
&- -
l.-
Gdrmait .'Attack on 15-Mile
Front Grumbled, Be
, neath French Fire
SUFFER HEAVY LOSSES
Asahults on Hill 304 nnd Vaux-
iDduttumont Line Prove
Futile
PARIS, April 20.
The Crown Prlnc resumedthe drive on
Verdun tas night with heavy attacks
Ion a 15-mlle front, ngalnst the French
positions on 'both; bankn of .the Meuse.
The '.aerrrians launched nn attack at 6
lo'clock. last night ngatnst Mill 304, tho
keystone of tho French defenses north
west of Verdun. Tho Wnr Ofllce nn
.notlnced that this assault Was stopped by
'il "grpna'do counter-nttncki
On the right bank of the .JIcuso tho
(German.-) delivered an ejven more violent
attack cast -of Thlaumont farm, but were
driven back. suffering heavy losses.
Following tho most violent nrtlllery
v preparation' and im.fntense curtain of nro
. tHe 'Germans charged ' tho French front
'east of Thlaumont, where they have suf
fered' frequent defeats, Liquid lire was
sprayed upon tho French advanced
trenches- ns tho Teutons advanced, but
they were met by. steady streams of
shrapnel nnd thrown back with heavy
losses.
Another German force, emerging from
thovtiorth6rn fringe of Callletto wood, nt
tdck6d, heavily on the. DouaUmonVaux
lino, but Wbb thrown back without a gain.
The Ocrm'an confined their Infantry ac
tivities on the west bartk of tho. Meuse (o
'the attack on Hill 304. Tho French artil
lery ,was most actlvo while this engage
ment, was In progress, French shells blow
ing -up 'a. German munition depot. Tho
..Germans' shelled Avocourt, Esnes nnd
Frenth positions on Mill '304 throughout
the day. '
Tho' nglVtlng on tho cast bank of tho
Meuso, north nnd northeast of Verdtln.
spread from the river itself to tho French
positions around Douaumdnt and Vaur vil
lage. On' this wldo sector savage fighting
raged throughout yesterday.'
PHUADELPHIANSLEAD
WELLESLEY ATHLETICS
Ytfung Women From Here
jkade President and Treas
y ' ; urxoroi College Asa'h ,
'"'''jfi1,' .twQvWosfmp'ortant offices 'tft
'$ean awarded, .to Thllndelphla girls. "Wqrl'
election of Miss J2mma" Bdrrctt rta proal-
aem oi uo uoiieK.miolu jpu.",u.,i
and of JIIss Grace 'S. Ewlng ,as treasurer
Of lint asfootntlon. Both girls have been
active In ni'iletlcs at the MnEsachusetta
college, and ,havo shown particular aptl-tudo,-
for track wprk.
SIfss Barrett's homo Is at 3603 North
19tl itreet. She has been captain of tle
Junior track team at "Wellesley. and has
achieved distinction as an all-round ath
Jitfc, piiq was ono of three girls to rc'
ceivo the,iollege letter at the .recent Indoor
meef.
jnss Ewlng, whoso home Is at 3926
tihtestnut street. Is n sophomore. ' Ike
" a BJISS.-Barrett, she is captnln pf the track
-.ttaih of her class. Although fleet-footed.
' fje Tias not yet received her letter, but
' 'flVery ono predicts that she will win- this
" honor next year.
.'.Philadelphia girts generally, aro win
ning athletic, as well as scholastic, dls
j tmction at "Welle'sly, Only a few months
f 'ao,MIss Dorothy Baldwin, known to her
' frlehrtsas 'Dot" Baldwin, was chosen, tho
indior baseball champion of the college,
i and' she Is now busily engaged In trying
fox ecojid base on the first outdoor nine
' oyer organized at Wellesley, .
JnbES GRIEF FROM AUDIENCE
' ev. Mr. Colib Continues Address, Af-"
Ut MessaTells of Dead Proth'er
' AtfL.ANTlcf,RrrY. April 29. The Rev.
fle Witt C. Cgbbijof Trenton, president of
the New Jerseyfeonference of. the Kpworth
' league, was in' the midst of his address
before the annual convention last night
when.'-handed it1. telegram announcing the
death of his brother In Long Branch.
President Cobb completed the delivery of
his message ' before announcing his
, bereavement. He left for Long Branch on
the' first available train.
i THE WEATHER
; i. This would be a fine sunny day to start
tailing o,n the expedition of that new com
pany which will look for gpld lying "In
"yottlng hulks" at the bottom of the
.Atlantic. For on an expedition' of that
kind you -tpuldn't have to go to work
rlgHt' aw'ey one wqUW imagine that for
(the : first, three or fjiir! weeks the work
'-Woufd, largely consiit'vf sitting about on
dect? and iaklng thing ,easy Jt Is hard
to understand why raii sneer at these at
tempts io recover ids iosi treasures on
the floor of ocean. Business men who
have sunk thousands in. gpld mines an.d
even In less risky enterprises, nevertheless,
have the nerve to make fun of looking for
'gold at the bottom at the sea.
On fine days like this there Is only one
' pklnd of gold worth looking for the gold
J,at the hottom of the ea.
1 v .
rawHhM fgiiMffiwlFiSI?ISIISl' -
K dmr KBKWJjjaiW&&isnmi ' JUM WIS kV -' WKPiBHn
wKMW in"! T, i
' ifclBMBrnirnHprl n khird :po hurt .
IHHMEanHOWnHiS IN IMSIHtKVULT
flwP!:::fll,' w.: ' SHI'B At
II mM4$- '1HF - W$m I. Jir tH H
KwaewMWStiHa5L - ,
f
. gElARD HAS'NQ HAMPERING JNgf RUC
y '.'' ' ' ?'
ircut'JdaSr, Iin r'Jiahictlirg'JJri3tructl.onf
f ny'tjKotUrttt;ifliBi
J borian:arUJB' iiniitUijfe.dr nnr,WstMiin maV tiiVirf do JtLaffl
"""- " v -.-' '' '' 'wr'vi
r'...;iV
' " 'V;-,"-"- "4i-1C,1'. --j '"Y.
,"4. '" ' " A ' ' ' . ' -
-yiiritL. ASIC Wtt'sON-ltO AID SIR'iRQGERCASET?tEI
. -i- f3
J" ' ' , . - fc.-. . ' -W
.' ' f . ' , Vf .- J" ..- . ' .
WASmNOTOI'AprilJBp.Michae Francis .)l.c;,-rfica)oy.0
' Mrs.. Ali'cctNewman, sister-&,$& oger.'CasVneiroS'ay'.'wlrefl "ttM?-
Whto .House askinAn.aiipuntxent'Tvlth PresidfRirjVilsori.'v H"fc '
'elrcs '.to ask-tiic resldeilt tr?$n,tervene on ibehrilif! oOhfJjirish' revJti! $
Nonary "Ioader?TUo teotueatasifc'fcrreri to Secre'ttijrf'iSRate-Lajisijff;.''' !!
C
Thoto by-najmovlti.BvEMo IiEtKiEB.lafr photographer.
Ever since the 'organization1 of tho Stonem'en, more than a year ago,
the Rev. II. C. Ston6'ha3sbcen the hardest man in. Pennsylvania to
photograph. , Always surrounded by a strong bodyguard, he has been
able successfully to' , elude tho cametamon. Today, however, an
Evening Ledger stafT photographer "snapped" Mr. and Mrs. Stone
on the platforhr of Broad Street Station as they were about to
depart for Pittsburgh on the second pilgrimage of the organization.
The insert shows Rev. Mr. Stone acknowledging the greetings of
his followers. Above i3 n group of the straw-hatted delegates.
. Nearly all the "pilgrims" wore "katies."
STRAW-HATTED ARMY
OF 13,000 ST0NEMEN
ON WAY TO PITTSBURGH
Go There to Instal Fellowship
Branch Tomorrow Are Led
- by Rev. Mr. Stone and
Bishop Rhinelander
NEED 17 SPECIAL TRAINS
FORECAST
For Philadelphia, and vicinity'
-Fair tonight and Sunday; warmtr fo
1 'nightfr light variable winds:
', Fpr details see page '4.
' I.0ST AND gQxND
iiVA'rCn FQULoir. illk watch rob.
T gold mfim. Intilal. VT-rB. B.,nd
twiminfcfpihlp buttOM, reward. 321 H. all
XOU-rrUul. Ursa red Cbovr Chow doc oa
, rlrayenu.. Uryn Miwr, -april 21. Hetu
Kim Pevr. Una SJaiwr. Pbooe Bryn
$Rm?fCATlZft, Certlfcata No
Mita'by the National Jlank pf th
; :XUtrtleM; tor una ahar or tbafr ato
"o. JBTIK
ional Hank pf tha NortiuVn
,ahar i of ttMlratock. laU
'. Marbooro, All peraona art
.. inia atocic. and
tfama af Anna. h.
rarnea aaainac neaoLiacia.
tt &ndr will pleaaa communlcata with thai
car ox n. Amertya.- au unaataut at..rblla.
.kAftiTNO illawond aolltalre. oa April 31
: utwaan 85th at. " and downtown diatrfet
lljWiral reword U raturaad. 1H fl. s;th.
'TKBIER Loat. brovrajerritr. wnlVTlpot on
tsa; UO reward, Betura to 23 fiowan
av.t Ml. Airy
QtUr leat and Fcuod AtU, 1S11 'ax It
,! N) ., H !l HI .
Thirteen thousand. Stonemen, wearing
13,000 straw 'hata. with the temperature
lit 60, are leaving the city today for
Pittsburgh lirtho second -and the largest
pilgrimage ever undertaken by the or
ganization. The army Is being entrained for the
West In 17 special trains.' Its mission Is
to Instal a new council of the Ktonemen'B
Fellowship, with a spectacular parade and
Impressive ceremonies, at Pittsburgh to'
morrow. The pilgrims are headed by the
new II, C. Stone, founder of the organi
zation that has gained a local member
ship of more than 100,000 in a year. De
fying a time-honored custom, they marked
themselves with straw hats, from new
papamas to last year's ?1.50 "sailors."
There wag a flurry of excitement In
Broad Street Station tta the advance
guard of the pilgrims, soo strong and
headed by a band crashing out "Onward,
Chrlstfan Soldiers,." marched into, the
trulnshed, conspicuous In their straw hats..
The nret or the al-eteel trains left at 9
o'clock this morning.
Former Director George ,D. .Porter, .a
prominent Stoneman. arrived In the sta
tion from his home In Germantown while
the shed waV white with tho straw hats.
He' was' greeted by a flashing .salute of
waving hats and a tremendous outburst
of cheering. He shook hands with many
of the members. He was not one of the
pilgrims.
Fifteen minutes later another train filled
with Stonemen was rolling out ot the
shed, and then another and another and
another. After 10 o'clock the intervals
between departures was Increased to half
an hour and an hour. The train' bearing
Bishop Philip M. ' Jthlnelander, of the
Episcopal Diocese of Pennsylvania; the
Rev.. Dr. Stone and) other churchmen will
leaya At 1' o'clock this afternoon.' The
last; train will leave about 11, o'clock
tonight.
United States army oflicers. detailed bv I
hk w. na.ta-,mAn ..,. ..,.... - i.-f
t,.. ?. v?y , .. v yt cft u un
serve the method of transporting such a
large body .of men. one of the greatest
feat ever undertaken by the Pennsyl
vania Railroad. l$very member ot the
social train crews was a Stoneman.
VICTORY FOR PENN'S
ONE-MILE RELAY IS
BELIEF0F MEREIMH
Least Seven Counties In
volved iri Insurrection,
Officials Say
WOMEN REBELS SEIZED
Red and Blue Captain Sums Up
Results of First Day's. Per
formances on Franklin
Field
COMPLIMENTS NIG BERRY
By TED MEREDITH
(Captain Tenn Track Team.)
Penn'a, chances for the on'e-mlla relay
championship took a big jump when
we won the sprint medley yesterday after
noon. It showed us the real Bluff In the
men on the team, and I am fully, con
vinced now that we can meet any of the
teams entered and win. Our team will,
however, be handicapped somewhat be
cause of three qf, the men having run yes
terday, but rthtnk the, course of (raining
they have been-, through this year will
allow them to stand up under the strain
of two races.
Dorsey did not run yesterday and will
be fresh today. We kept him out on ac
count of- hja dtstressed condition .after
finliliing. (he trial race last Friday when
he made the team, .This will give us a
'resh man on the team and will help a
great deal.,
I am a little worried over Tommy Len
non. Lennon was very sick on Thurs
day night and we were anxious about
him yesterday, and only entered him to
see whether it had affected his running in
any way. ' It -did Blow him up a bit, and
after the race he complained of a sore
leg, so now we are undecided about what
should be .done with, him today. There.
Is one consolation In the fact that Scud
der, who ran the quarter yesterday,
proved much faster than he has ever dope
before, and should Lennon'a leg bother
him today we will change these men.
Harvard did not run their men yester
day, so they t will have a .fresh team
against us. Princeton and Chicago, did,
however, so wo. are on an even basi? with
them.
Diamond, the colored Chicago runner,
ran-rt great quarter.' Several of the
timers caught him. In 48 4-5 seconds, and I
am fully convinced that he run thU fast.
If not faster. Diamond Is. the Western
quarter-nine cnampion, ana we. Chlcagq
people think he la one Of the few who- is
capable of breaking the quarter-mile rec
ord of 47 4-5 seconds, held by Maxy ten?.
T,ONDOX, Aprjl 2D.
llore than 500 persons have been killed
nnd wounded In the Irish revolution, ac
cording to an otUclal,cstImate.
There has been fighting in at least seven
Irlnh countjes In the southeastern and
wcistorn parts of tho island.
Five hundred prisoners have been cap
tured by the British forces. Including some
women.
There was an abortive uprising In the
city of Cork, In which at least two persons
were killed.
Part of the city of Dublin, has been
destroyed by lire, and a big section has
been looted.
From 10,000 to 15,000,'Slnn Felners and
their sympathizers took part In the Irish
revolt. x
The military forces under General Sir
John Maxwell are gradually restoring or-1
der, and In Dublin, the seat of the rebel
lion, the fighting lias been reduced to
sniping,
The foregoing were the outstanding
features ot the situation In Ireland today.
An'ofllciat announcement. isJued at mid
night by Field Marshal Viscount French,
commander of the homo forces, put a much
more optimistic complexion on' conditions
In Ireland than existed during tne previ
ous IS hours.
Field Marshal French states that mili
tary operations are proceeding satisfac
torily, but the report Indicates that tha
general postofllce butldfng' in the -Irish
capita Is still in the hands of the rebels,
being used as their base of operations.
- The cordon of troops thrown around the
southern, western and northern parts of
Dublin Is being drawn closer and closer
PENROSE MCACK
.Pf$tt
FOR BRGMBAUGH
Governor Abandons Most
of Campaign After Criti
cism of Candidacy
WILL ONLY SPEAK TWICE
ri:
s
.-V
.-
w
f Sli
'NINETY PER CENT., OF-GERMAN WOUNDED RECOVER '.f
, Jt,iiL.iN, April aJr-vTrie annual mcotlne ot tho ,Gorman -Surgeons' Aei .
elation began yesterday Jn tho present of tho. .Gorman Km press, with thetiaj "j
tro-HUnffarlun, Turkish nnd Bulgarian thief nrmy surneons In attendaYice." saVa ,- 'I
th'o Overseas News Agencyi, "Tho chief surgeon of the? Gf rman army ana presfc A
uent, ot mo association. Jjoctoc schuerning, rend a lettofi -regarding tho. recent' l'
achlGvementsof army aurgoods. ,Teta'nu8, e;sald. had .been orrle,tely ripttf (out.,
WnllQ In German -hosDltAli 90.1 rier- ennk'nir thn 'otai ,imhi.,'ij -w,,..r,9A Nijav vj
tRPlely' Covered imrl Wo'flt fbr".BoArr'aj-bh.5Ytkho ,-wirunde4?'
. HEW XORKj jnrir2fi.It has bedn loarnod thtrf.HnliVi WmIv ,t!r k hr '
Continued on Fate Two, Column Tire
L'ATTAGCO SU VERDUN
RIPRO DAI TEDESCHI
La-Fanteria del Kronprinz Lan-
ciata InUtilrnente Contro
la Quota 804
Un telegramma d.,Parlgl dice che. e'
stato ufllclalmente annunciato cola' che i
tedeschl hanno rlpreso l'attacco contra le
pdsizlonl di Verdun. Questa volta II Kron-
prins ha lanciato Je sue fanterle contro
la Quota sot, aa ovesj aeua aiosa. che
si rltiene essere la chlave dt tutto intoro
)l ijatema dl difesaii Verdun. Iattacco,
operato terl sera alia 6. e stato arfestato
da una grandlne dl granate e da un'con
trattacco con granate a ma no da parte del
francesl. I tedeschl hanno anche' pro
nunolato un ptu' violento uttacca contro
le posldonl di Thleumont. da.cu) furope,
pure, resplntl con gravl perdlt'e nonostante
1'usq dl liquid! incendlarll ed una. for
rhldablle cortria di fuoco con cul -l'attacco
era operjito.
Ncssun comuntcato uSletale a' statq
tranmesso da noma circa le operation! dl
guerra sulla fronts itallana.- ttf. (oma
iuinge notlla invece dl un'agltailone, rl
ybuilonarla che-va dlsegnandqsl jnGrecla
per, opera d Interventlstr e jd a,mlct dl
Venlielos.
(MfKere In 4a paglna aj(r'e e plu'
, ...wa -v . w --. BMa.v. -- .kflhA-
Continued on, l'are KJtYta, Column TJjreo 1 U.UQ.)
Governor Brumbaugh today abandoned
most of the campaign that had" been
planned for him, following th itttuck made
upon his candidacy by Senator Penrose
in a statoment made public from Pitts
burgh. The Governor has given up his tour
of Blair County, which was to have
started this morning, nnd will visit the
county only to speak nt a mass-meeting
to be held at Altoona tonight ' The Itin
erary that Attorney General Francis
Shunk Brown prepared for him nnd thnt
was to have kept the Governor busy until
the day of the election,, May 16k haa been
cut down by the Governor until It in
cludes only one meeting after 'the one to
be held tonight. Preparations have been
made for a meeting In Heading on
Wednesday, May 10.
Senator Penrose, In his statement,
charged that the Brumbaugh candidacy
'is not in good faith. He predicted the
overwhelming defeat of Governor Brum
baugh, not only as a presidential candi
date, but also for delegste-at-large to the
Republican National Convention.
Senator Penrose said; "Brumbaugh
Is not In good faith a candidate for the
presidency. His candidacy, .discredited at
the outset, we did not dignify by vpposlng.
I was asked to run. but I could not do so
unless seriously I was a candidate. The
party leaders know Brumbaugh Is not a
candidate; the Republican rank and file
know It, and even this early In the cam
paign such information as I hayo bcin
.able to gather from over the State shows
conclusively that the preferential vote for
Brumbaugh will bo so light as to be prac
tically negligible and, besides that, he
gate-at-Iarge."
Senator Penrose paid his respects to tha
aovernor, came out unqualifiedly for Har
mon U. Kephart, of Fayette, for State
Treasurer; Senator Charles A. Snyder,- of
Schuylkill, for Auditor General , Joseph F,
McLaughlin, of Philadelphia, national
president of the Ancient Order of Hiber
nians, and Isadore Sobel,' former postmas
ter of Ere. for Congreasmen-atrlarge, and
against Congressman John It. K. Scott and
Daniel F. Lafean. '
He Indicated, his willingness to' accept
1ncarp6ra.Ud5htt)Jndenpnaent- ' Th.o' periodical! of VnlcrT Norinnh Hnpiooi
la, editor, SvaB acquired by fho Independent Corporation as tho result of JVcant
negoijpuons, which have Just boon concluded. With.tliB mprirlmr nf lift- nnrlndi
Jcals, Norman Hapgood, according to good information,, will retire temporarily
-.w... ... v..y,u. i.ciu,' a report mat, no was selected, oy xno. Wilson Admin
istration for an Important appointment was not denied at the office tif Harpert
Week)-late yesterday.
ROOSEVELT ON HIS WAY WEST TO OPEN CAMPAIGN
SYRACUSE, N. Y.. Atlril 29. f!nlnnl Tnvutrlf n.ira.H'llirAiinl, lisn lexai
night on his way to tho Middle West. Ho intends that his, trip to Chicago,
where he will address the Illinois Bar Association tonight, shall be mode t
count forcibly 'In the events leading up to the Republican and Progressive &&
tional Conventions.
DANISH STEAMSHIP BLOWN UP BY A MINE
. LONDON, April 20. The cnptaln of tho Danish steamship Johanwo wa
klllest when tho vessel struck a mine In the North Sea, according to n dispatch
to the Exchange'Telegrauh from CoDenhairen. Tim nf nr ii. ..u. woo i,ri,i
Exchange" Telegraph from Copenhacen.
at Hamburg.
Tho rest of the crow was landed
PLOT TO MURDER SULTAN OF TURKEY REPORTED
LONDON? April 29. The Dally Mail's Odessa correspondent telegraphs that
a conspiracy in which many high officers were concerned has been discovered W
Constantinople to murder tho Sultan, proclaim his successor nnd nrrMi hi M(n:
latere. The correspondent says among those arrested are two. royal Princes. A
wuu.i-u,a.uiu huh ticen nxga ror today. There is great excitement In official
quarters In Cpnstantlnople. fcT
' ' T V .
SWISS SOLDIERS FIRE ON FRENCH AEROPLANES
BERLIN, April 29. "The Swiss nrmy staff reports that two Frencli aero
planes crossed the border near Beurnessin, and after flying for two kilometre
went back again," the Overseas News Agency says, "Yench signs on the aero
planes crossed the border pear Beurnessin, nnd nfter flying for two kilometres,
MANEUVERS SHOW CANAL IS NOT INVULNERABLE
PANAMA, April 29. Army maneuvers In the Canal" Zone have demon
strated the feasibility af -4 host'le attack overland from either Chame Bay or
near Aguadulce, This statement was made last night by Brigadier General
Clarence E, Edwards. The Onnge Army, which la theoretically attacking the
Canal, lias effected a landing and engaged tho Blue Army. The Secretary of tha
Navy has been asked to detail a cruiser and several submarines to a nermanant
'station at each end of the canal.
Continued oa rate Two. Column Fir
BRITISH CABINET HOLDS
MYSTERIOUS METING
JAPANESE PROTEST NOT TIMED TO EMBARRASS IL.S,
TOKIO, April 29. The? Japanese Times, in an article wrilch is regarfled.
as Inspired, denies that tne protest of Viscoun Chlnda, Japanese Ambassador
to the United. States, against the legalizing of the Root-Taknhlm agreement
restricting Japanese. Immigration, was timed to synchronic with, the externa;
complications of the United States. The protest, if was stated, was ap appeal
to America's boasted, sense of justice, -
Believed Conscription and Bir
rell Resignation Were Topics
of Unusual Session
LONDON. April 29.
The Cabinet met unexpectedly thU
morning, causing the circulation of most
sensational rumors In view pf the fact
that ministerial meetings are never held
ori Saturday.jrhe. meeting was at onoe
connected wlttf King George's conference
With Premier Asqulth ahd Lord Kitchener
yesterday afternoon, at" which conscrip
tion was discussed and the reports of a
new Cabinet crjals.
In some quartern it was rumored that
the special meeting had to do with the
Irish crisis, and the .almoit unanimous de
mand by the newspapers that Secretary
for Ireland Blrrell resign.
, DRYDOCK CONSTRUCTION TO START THIS SUMMER
Work on tho 'lTOO-foot drydock for th Philadelphia NavyYarfl vtfll bo
started this summer, Secretary Daniels said last night after making a, speech
on r.repareaness opre! tne Acaaemy. of Political and BoclaJISclence, Yee,
It's as certain-s certainty car be," Daniels assured a. questigfl'er. Secretary
Daniels said, the dock wu4 bo completed In less that) three years.
POPE REFUSED AUDIEjNCE TO SIR ROGER GASERfENT
PAniS; Apri, ?- 9P"teh to the Temps' from Rome quotes the Gloraalo
d'ltalla- as 6ayng that before he embarked on his Jrlsh expedition. Sir Roger
Casement soughV an audepc' with" Pope Benedlotf and that It was refused.
. r,,. . .. , ,
P. R T.-SUED BY -TRENTON MAN IT HAD IMPRISONED
The Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company is being sued for J5Q0y. by Ben.
jaraln Robinson, of Treuton, following the plaintiffs crrcet, on, Marktt street
trolley cair week, after 4 dlsplite with the condWor over the payment of
a. 6-cenf ar,e. Robinson, who haa entered sultan the United States DJatrtct
Cqtirt aTjrentoR, clatosjtnat. he was fajiely toprispned through the act of th
transit ompany. ThejfqjaduQtor, t is averred, cjiarged-jtobinson with throw4
a counterfeit nickel In the fare fox. Wheri bis hearing vyas held before Masr
istrafe "the trolley company failed to prove that Robinson's coin was a counter-,
felt aitd th! case was dismissed,
Monte Grisgen Returns to Combat Baixm Hachmeistex; The Millionaxjce-Hero's Exploits iii Ke?isiEigton Begin o4iiie S
1
., .aftaaaiaL
