THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and warmer to-day; to-morrow
probably fair; light winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 51; lowest, 43.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pajse IS.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
vol.. I-XXX11I. no. 24a.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, APRIL 29, 1916. Cop,.!, 1916, by the Bun SWill,, and ruMMMn, AiMctntlo
PRICE TWO CENTS.
KAISER TO SEND THROUGH GERARD
PLEA OF OLD FRIENDSHIP FOR U. S.;
NOTE MA Y BE ON WA Y TO-MORROW
KiiipiTur Sont for Ambassa
dor to Convey Personal
Appeal to Americans.
HOl'KS. WITH WILSON,
T0K1MXG WAR TO KX1)
Will Say Germans Are
Heady for Peace Terms,
Washington Report.
Washington, April SS. The true
..gnlflcancc of Ambassador Gerard's
v.J.t to the German grand army licad
Tjrters, whore he will have an uudl
ecce with the Herman Emperor, was
explained to-day In oflkial advices from
Berlin. The Islt has been made at
Se Emperor's request in order to per
ait him to convey through Amlassa.'
dor Gerard an earnest plea to President
Wilson to maintain friendly relations
ith Germany.
No discussion of the submarine Is
sue between the Emperor and Ambas
&dor Gerard is expected. Details of
(he negotiations and the framing of
tiie German reply to the American note
ire now in the hands of Chancellor von
Bethm.inn-Hollwes.
The German Kaiser's message to Mr.
Gerard will deal primarily with the
r.ecesslty of averting war "between two
fnendly peoples" over what German
i.rticlals here describe as "technical In
terpretations of international law" I
which could be satisfactorily adjusted
if arbitration or by an International
tribunal.
I'rrsonal Appeal to Wilson.
it i expectcu oy iiiose in wmn
sirlin that the Emperor will appeal
..rcctly to I'resldcnt Wilson's tlrm be
'f in the doctrines of peace and arbl-
ttjtion wlille Indicating that severance
diplomatic relut!om would be unl
frsdlly reaurded in? Gernuny as a
rrlimlnury to actual hostilities.
The Emperor is understooel to re-
;iri war between the American people
hi 'he German people as "an un
inkable calamity." He will empha-
ze the yeais of unbroken friendship
nch ,ia vc happily cliaructertzea the
at.ons "f the two peoples and at the
me time contrast the consequences
'Men would rehult from a diplomatic
vcak over the submarine Issue, which
regards as not of vital interest to
tmerlcan citizens.
The Emperor is loath to believe that i
mere misunderstanding over Amer-
in interpretation of Germany s rules (
i conducting u war of self-preserva-on
against "enemies designing to
tush h'-r' could be made the basis or
oivini: the I'nlted States In the con-
'isratl'Ui.
"Xrliliri- People Want War."
H w.ll ,ike the position, it is nnder
Mat miner the German people
ti,o Aiiieiie.m people vvunt war and
' n it l the .-olemii duty of those In
its- of the destinies of these peoples ,
i avert "such n calamity." He will
-rt.nrmoie give Mr. Gerard assur-1
. t.-. ...rt.l ll,l, ,1.A lm- 1
. , . , u..r, wUu. ...... " -
r Government is ready to end the
rid conflict any time the Alliesj uro
3d Vr'abandon Vhen- cam,,a of 1
rushing the fatherland" and he will
press the belief that the end of tho
ai is a'ready in jdght unless the con
c unfortunately should be broadened
' -cope and thereby lengthened.
There ts nothing In the advices from
r'rlm which indicate that the Emperor
l discuss possible concessions which
'irmar.y may feel able to make to the
Vmrican demands. The impression i
aowever. that this matter would be
mmented nn only in a general way
"he 1'mpetor Is understood to feel I
at .i Koumon must be found on some
wiMliy satisfactory basis. The de-s-!'r
it is said, may be taken up nfter
:e conference with the Kmperor by
Ir Uerard and Chancellor von Ueth-r.ann-11
llweg.
Move I'roduera Confidence.
The eficct of the action taken by the
erm.in lanperor and his readiness to
t'i an earnest plea through Mr.
Gerard already Is noticeable here.
I'tifWence was In evidence at the Ger-
n Knin.issv destiltn renorts from
'rl.n fiat the German people now '
' a dc'ermlncd unwillingness to ness opportunities In attempting to pal-
rifl 'r no effectiveness of the sub- j vagc steam and sailing ships that
ulr... campilan against Great "lunged to the bottom In stress of storm.
jihjI,, I It Is the most ambitious scheme of
mi, ... . . ,..... i the sort that has ever been attempted,
'im lals at , state Department1, ,. ,.. . ...
at the State
rp e However,' the
. , I
tiowever. the possibility that ,
"rmanj win ktilwtltute an appeal
"'tn the Kmperor for a definite reply
I the I're.iident's submarine note. It
not known here whether the mes
"Se which tho Kaiser will send to
' Mident Wilson through Mr. Gerard
1 made public here. It Is possible
may- I... held up pending the rc
'Pt of Germany's (reply to the note,
"l the nope is expressed in German
teles, that the Kmperor'n.message will
II communicated to the American
Jwpl without delay.
Tiiere were no ofllclnl reports to-dav
"the progress in the negotiations con
wnlng n,e rcplyi ireBldent WlUon
lno h. Cabinet met and dlsqusaed the
'"hmirlnu issue briefly. Secretary
nlng said he hael received no ad
nt coticcrtilng the situation.
Ulag Fnnda tar CMmtrnm im Chlaia
tftrfal fable Dtipotc to Thi Six
KlXfiirrnv T ..' . I , n n a rxt .
Iv "u mitlt iiviiii
Chinese politician, la here to raise
from tho local Chinese community
u'r'," "ccure a change of, Government
? vThlna. He haa atieeaadad In ralaUa
In Ceir rl America. tt i
KAISER TO ORDER U S. REPLY
AS AMBASSADOR RETURNS
Submarine Answer Being Prepared While President's
Envoy Speeds on Way to Front and Back Op
timism Prevails; Americans Unpack.
Ukrlin, Ma Amsterdam. April IS.
At 7 o'clock shatp this evening there
pulled Into a certain mlltoad Matlon
"somewhere In the west" h special ex
press train carrlng the Ameiicau Am
bassador, .luines W. Gerard, on his way
I lu the Germany army headquarters In
the field. When this train speeds back
to the (Senium capital probably tn-mor-tow
night - the American diploma will
be carrying, It Is undeletood, the Kaiser's
answer to Piesldrtit Wilson's demands
concerning German submarine warfnte.
lie may have also a special message
front the German Fmperor to the Ameii
cau President nnd to the Ameilcan peo
ple. Kver.v thing heie to-day ludirated tn.it
Germany expects that what the Kaiser
will nay to the American Ambassador
will end the whole submarine crisis and
reestablish the friendship and the good
will of former years between the two
nation.
UuotHcial leports to-night had It flint
the Government's formal reply to the
United States will be despatched to
morrow night. It Is possible, therefore,
thut at the end of the conference with
Ambassador (Ward the IJmperor will
telegraph Ilnal Instructions to Heilln
which will put the final touches to the
notH which has been under preparation
since the ImperlJl Chancellor. Ir. von
Hethmann-Hnllweg, returned from hit
second conference with the Kaiser nt
the front.
A I (ieraril Ciinfrrence,
It was learned to-day that Vice-Ad-mlral
Kduard von Capelle, who suc
ceeded Grand Admiral von Tlrpltn as
Minister of Marine', left for army head
quarters on Wednesday. It Is bellcvtd
he will he present at the conference with
Mr. Gerard. The latter Is accomtiaulcd
I oil IiIh Intlrnev In tlw. frnnt hv 1nMiil. r-
uiw, secretary or tne American Km-
bassy.
The Ambassador's visit is made
at the
personal invitation of the
I.IU-
pcror.
The presence of
at the conference
, I
fsdV?,,r,r,a
foregone conclusion, the purpose being.
It Is explained, to have the Minister of
Marine point out the technical ques
tions involved In submarine warfare,
with a view to explaining just how far
the German Admiralty can go in con
forming their operations to the Ameri
can views.
A significant sign of optimism with
reganl to the outcome of the Grrman
American controversy was seen here
day In the fnct that the llerlln Stock
Exchange continues to improve In tone.
Market reports showed the financial
thermometer 1o have practically re-
sumed its normal state,
With only one exception, the Ilcittache
RICH MEN TO HUNT
.
Coinjmny Formed to
iSl't'K
Treasure nt liottom of Sen
in Itottimr Hulks.
Most plausible adventurers have gone'
within years even recent Into the doubt-
.
atmosphere of Wall Stiect to spin .
h..r tales of pirate gold waiting on the
bottom of the sea In rotting bulks for :
tne man or initiative anci some casn.
The tales and schemes of such have gone
stale, hut Wall Street, the young blood !
. .
of Wall Street, has its red corpuscles,
Its
longing for fair profit to be gained fiom
honest risk-and skilful planning.
That Is exactly why the Intetoce.iu
Submarine Knglneerlng Company Is now
a corporation, fully capitalized to pry ,
into Davy Jones's secrets, to hunt up and
down tne seas ror auauuoncd treasure. (
m''re a c",TeJ!,iL,u t. '.,f
Halter. Jr., Charles II. Sabln, Albert II.
Wlggln, G. M. P. Murphy and others of
Wall Street's young capitalists who are
among the more prominent or the Inves
tors In the treasure hunting concern.
Kxnct Information combined with scien
tific engineering plans Interested them lu
the project.
near-Admiral Colby Mitchell Chester,
F. S. N retired; W. D. Franklin, for
merly a lieutenant lu the I'nlted States
r.avy, and George David Stlllson, the
engineer who raised the United States
submarine F I off Honolulu, are the
men who have convinced Mr. Rockefeller,
Mr. Ituker. Sir. Sabln nnd the other In-
corporators that there aie excellent busl-
IUI 1 1 llivuisc.i iiui uiii iiuiiua uiuiin
, u.. ..arKoes of fold and silver and
precltus stones but to raise great ships
that might be added to merchant Meets
thinned by submarine warfare and the
rigors of war.
Admiral la President.
The president of the new concern, the
most romantic In Inception that Wall
Street over saw perhaps, is Hear Ad
miral Chester. W, D. Franklin, well
known lor his cuiiueeUon nilli the Natal
MllltU, Is the treasurer. The chief
engineer and diving expert is George
I David Stlllson, who Is said to bo the
most capable deep sea salvager in the
world. In the navy he was known as
"Chief Ounner" Btlllson, and he estab
lished a world's record when he lifted
the V-i from a sea depth that had ap
palled most naval engineers.
Aery probably the first adventure upon
which the Interocean Submarine Com
pany will embark will be the raising of
a Ward liner which sank thlrty-llvo
miles oft Cape Hatteraa some years
ago with Its cargo of lzOO.000 In silver
bar and 1700,000 worth of non-perishable
goods. Should the attempt be suc
cessful there will be enough profit to
nav all tho axDcnsta of the first job and
to nut e company easily In a, position
. . . ,l. mam. AIM.., I, mm-bIIm-
m atcsniiaa um a m.m.um.. wvihwim
piMrtWi-,.,wB mmim iMniraaea
7fii;rs:rllii!i7, In which Count zu lie
vehtlow continues to call for a dellatit
answer tu America's demands, the Ger
man press has adopted a policy for a
conciliatory leply and aimed nt a main
tenance of friendly iclatlons with the
t'nlted States.
Meanwhile Ametlcan embassy at
taches who a week ago began to pack
their perton.ll effects have unpacked
thrin. Word I cu lled the American col
on;, in llerlln lute yesterday evening. It
I lea' nod, that the crisis apparently has i
passed Whence ti ls Information came
i Hut known, but I was credited as be-1
lug authentic. Americans here weie fur
ther Infonneil, It la said, that If for sonm
unforeseen reason a break should come
between the two nation It would cer
tainly not he before May 5.
I.aaltnnln Anniversary.
No explanation was olTeied for fixing
this date. In some quarters, however. It
Is presumed that the date has something
to do with tho anniversary of the sink
ing of tho Lusltanla, which falls on
Slay 7.
Owing to the tension the majority of
Americans here have remained indoors
at the suggestion of the polkc authori
ties, who feared molestations by what
air termed here "hlettlsch polltlker"
(beer table politicians). Americans up
(earing in public places hae been made
to feel uncomfortable, but their have
leen no noisy anti-American demons!, a-
lions anywhere,
The vl- ih.t .1,. f.,1,-1 u.. ... i... . ,
secret treaty with England on the j
sirriigin or which It is now courting a
In wide circles. Some members of th'.
IIelctusta irpeated this theory to Am-
ba-ador Gerard, who denied It cm-
phatlcally
One of the factors which have iin
prmseil the German public is the soil-1
darlty of sutlincnt among Americans
hue. While formerly there were many
Americans who showed simpatiiy with'
the German attitude in the submarine -
controver-.v. and even went so fat as iu '
I criticise the American Maud,
ii - rmcise im- American Mann, rue rerun;
inl(,(1Ip them hrw I.aii ?i ltsnltilnK' ,,r.,l.
mous In favor of the American view since
L'rJMt W""lnRon nole was published
here.
llreaU Kvt at Madness." '
Dr. Siegfried lleckscher. all expert on '
International law. to--lay salit that n t
M vera lire of relations with the Cnltcd
Mutes ami u subsequent war "would be .
a culminating act of inadnrse,"
He exprested the certainty that neither
the German nor the nierleaii neoiile
to-.want a break.
lie rharactctlzed I'resl-
.dent Wileon as "a man of principles,'
The Drutsrhr Tagrtziitunp publishes a
report that the resignation of Foielgn
Minister von Jagow Is only a nuvMloii of
hours and that I'tinco von Uuclow will
jtt'eceed him.
I rlks on ships tlut meet with mlb
fortune ask usually for only about 10
per cent of the value of the salvaged
I cargo. The profit possibilities arc oh-
j vlous.
' The company Is capitalized for J1ID,
1 000 and theie are onlv twenty-four
stockholders. Tile stock Is 7 pr cent,
cumulative preferred and 10,000 'hales
of common stock have been IssueJ to
the stockholders as a bonus. This rom
i mon stock has no value as t l.air
on, tr tne operations or the company
should bear exit the enthusiastic predict-
,l(Tof A'lmlral Chet.-r. Mr. Franklin ,
t.ie, ,'itiicutii lie- v,vii.i iii.i te. ill-
creased and participation offrrrd to the
public.
1 lie rotnpaii may decide also to make
specialty of dlfiicult marine riigin"er.
Ing, such as the digging of tunnels be-
m "0; river, an,, ca.ssot, w.,, k
J i?ni thV'ii.SVat.iaLr "t I aH
There
mane
isl tier
cargo. Including $I,ooo,u00 In r.old bull-
Ion and a vast fortune lu Jew Is. She
Jofl ' ' ' "aKr "ir lo.a-
linn lu t.nll V,i,i ,,
' "
'
I vnne linkiiiB uiiaats. ;
1' is only practicable schemes that
tho coxpany Is considering.
An dfort
to salvage the Titanic, for exati pie, .
would be hopeless, since the great White,
.-iar uner is hi least i.iuu icet iinuer
"' v,f'e,h.,!!nM;i.. . ,
rials Is making IsiastH as to what will
be accomplished. They say .merely that
they know what they are about, that the
idea Is good business nnd that they are
going to work systematically. If their
tirst efforts arc successful they may I
attempt to salvage valuable! vessels that
nave oeri . .r, leuon. ,.. e various war ,
nage of 1.C21.U00, have been sunk since 1
the war licgan. and that the value of I
the.se vessels, exclusive of cargoes, Is I
roughly $ia,3i:.,ooo,
The originator of th Idea is Itear Ad
miral Chester, who Is now 72 years old,
lie submitted the Idia tu a young bunker,
one of the lucorsirators of the company,
and the baukur thought so well of the
plan that after having It investigated by
Ids agents and receiving n favurable re
port from tin in, lie lent his name to the
concern and opened his check book. Also
lie Interested his friends, many of whom
Joined him as stockholders.
Percy Itockefeller, at his country home,
Oweuoke Farm, Greenwich, Conn,, In
formed Tin: Sun last night that he con
sidered the plan quite feasible and that
ho had made a "small Investment." Ho
had nothing to do with the management
of the company, he said.
GEEAHD ATTACKED IN PAPEB.
Ambassador Mecretly Klndllna; War
With Germany, la Cbarare.
SptrM Cable Pttpatch to Tns flux,
Coi'KNIIAOKN, April 28, The Klrler
Scueaic Xuchnchtcn prints an astonish
ing attack on Ambassador Gerard bused
on a story In an obscure newspaper bo
longing to the German Leaguoiof Truth.
The Nuchrichlen aaya that the league
Is about to publish sensational docu
ments proving that Ambassador Gerard
lias been secretly kindling war between
Germany and America in behalf of a
group of interest persons.
Several provincial papers reproduce
the repot.t, one declaring that the revela
tion occurs at a critical moment, evi
dently a aTgn of God' tract to Germany.
OVERTHROW OF
CARRANZA NEAR
ENVOYS TOLD
i.'ol lapse of Govern men I
Threatens. Foreign Km
hassies Hear.
STARVLNG PKOPLK ON
VKRGK OF REVOLT
First Chief in Danger of
Death for Letting V. S.
Troops In.
Foie.an embassies in Wa-hlngton
have teceivod reports fiom Mexico that
the downfall of Carranza 's Government
Is near.
With starvation and pestilence all
over the country, financial chaos and
business stagnation in the principal
cities, particularly Mexico city, the
people ore ready to oust Venustlano
Carranza, It is said.
The report declares that all of
Mexico Is on the verge of revolt, the
last cause, of unrest being resentment
against Carranza for letting the Amer-'
lean troops cross the border after Villa,
Villa is again a national hern.
The Intrigue Is said to extend to Car-
ranzas uouseiioiii. iiiiu lie is in uanger
of assassination, the embassies heat.
Hostility Is said to be shown If-
- '.xico cuj -to .meucaiis in pauicuisr .
and to all foreigners In s"neral
Gen. Obregnn, Minister of War, at
I Juarez denies that there is any feeling !
tigulnst Carranza. I
Gens, rjcott and Kuiiston called on I
Gen. Dhregon In Juarez.
Mure cavalry ha. been sent to Gen
l'ershlng and more Infantry w'i, go In
to-day
FKAR FOR FOREIGN MRS
NOW IN MEXICO CITY
A(aruilna llrpurts of III
Keel I mb
It each Kmhaasles.
WasiiiNCTo.v, April IS, lleports re
ceived within the last twenty-four
hours nt I'.uropean embassies have
aroused arrive apptehenslon In regard'
to the . Mexican filiation. I he reports
were to t.ie effect that the Carranza 1
eiovenimeiii was on ine verge oi col-
lapse and thut conditions in and around
Mevlro ,'llv uir more Ihre:itntii'-
than they hid been at any time since'
tiie overthrow of I'oilirlo Diaz.
Fearing that harm might conic to ,
their nationals In Mexico if the source ,
of the Information became known, the
.diplomats receiving the repot ts have
requc-stcd that their names be not ills-
Closed. It is known, i.owevrr. that at;
least one of the Ambassadors con
cerned turned over to the Stnte D;-1
' pirtment to-day a full transcript of'
I the information he had received.
ThU report declares that sill Mexico d'tiuns was losucd late to-night by I'leld
r i." on Hie vere of an uprising usalnst.Matsh.il Sir John" I'tench. commanding
the Carrunza Government. .It states
that while tho primary rause of unrest
)l(,s , the u),npiP,c demoralization of
all fotniH of Industry, In the scarcity of
l'ocxl and tho worthlessness of the !
Mexican currency, resentment against 1
I Carranza for permitting the Ametlcan I
forces to enter and remain In Mexican I
I territory is the particular grievance
I upon which the enemies of Carranza
! are pinning their hopes for a general
I outbre.il: against Ills rule.
I
Ilia .Notional Hero.
Ilia, the teport shows, is fast as- I
stimltig In the eyes of the Mexican
populace the figure of a national hero
vainng tnemseives of tills fact, ln-
tnguers nt the national capital and
in the very household of Carranza are
plotting for his overthrow. It Is said
that Carranza Is lu imminent danger of
assassination.
In tile meantime, the repot Is go on (
to state, the food shortage In various 1
parts of Mexico, not excepting the
ipltal, is glowing dally more serious
nnd pestilence is beginning to take Its
toll troni the ranks of tho starving.
farinna currency has dropped to the
l,ps"" sl 1,1 American gold.
Hostility against Americans is te-
ported to be growing, and of particular
concern to the diplomatic corps in
Mexico city, the report states, Is the
fact that foreigners of other nationality
ure not spared the ill feeling,
Desplto this information the State
Department continues to issue bulletins 1
containing illgestH of reports received
from American consulur representa
tives in various sections of Mexico pic
turing conditions as improved.
With the approach of the Scott-Ohre.
gon conferences to begin at Juarez to
morrow mornln?, officials here are mani
festing a lively Interest In the reports
from 11 Paso, albeit they still persist
lu discounting as unjustifiably sensa
tional anything In these repot ts which
tend to predict an unsuccessful result
from the conferences.
Otllclnls refused to copmient on ptess
reports this afternoon from Kl i'aso
quoting Gen. Obregon as flatly stating
that his principal purpose in agreeing
to meet Gen. Scott was to demand a
withdrawal of the American expedi
tionary force.
In deciding to send Gen. Scott to the
border and to arrange for tho confer
ence between him and Gen. Obregon the
Administration has hoped that the In
terview would be largely confined to an
interchange of views which might bring
about closer coopetatlon between the two
Governments In u military way and thus
persuade Carranza not lo press his for
mal request for a withdrawal.
The diplomatic questions Involved were
to be left to tho respective State depart
ments lo dispose of. If It Is true that
Gen. Obregon means merely to press for
CeaHnued oaf ourfA Pope,
GREAT FIRE RAGING IN DUBLIN;
FIRST DIRECT NEWS FROM CITY;
GUNBOA T SHELLS REBELS' BASE
Disturbances Reported
Waterford. Galway, Kerry
nnd Wexford.
SI NX FEIXERS STILL
HOLD POST OFFICE
Forty-four Dead and Fifty
one Wounded. Latest
lleports Show.
ptiia' tjble bcpaWi tu Tun Scv
London-, April IS. A serious fire is
raging In Sackville street, one of the
principal thoroughfares of Dublin.
The general pot ofllce Is still held by
the re. bets and serves as their head-
iuai tors.
In various parts of the city sniping
parties perched on the roofs of build
ings continue to aggravate the Govern
ment troops who are trying to put
down the rebellion which Martcd last
Monday and which appears to be still
rauliic fiercely, although the Govern
ment lute to-night officially expressed
confidence that its extinction is only a
matter of time.
The Four Courts, situated on the
I noil hern banks of the Llffey, half way
between the Itnyal llarrackf and Dub-
,,... . ,. ,1..,,,iM f n, r,.eU I
i..i.' i.. i.. ........! ..... ,
,' " ' '
lily, causing gie-ut damage,
An unolllcial report late to-night
said that the Sinn Keiners weie ex
pelled from their position on St.
Stephen's Green by bombs.
The rebellion has spread to the west
and sjuth of Iirl.md. This fact, al
leady otllciily announced last nlg-ht,
was reiterated to-night by the official
press bureau lu a statement which
specifies the dlstilcts in which dis
turbances have broken out.
( ralrri of lllatarMaer.
"The principal centres of disturb
ance." says a statement Issued to-night
by Sir John French, commander of the
home fortes, ate County Galway and
Eiimscorthv.'
County Galwav Is one of the lurcest
irivb eo unties ind lies due west of i
Dublin on the west coast, Galwav, on
tialway Hay, tiring the principal city,
EnnK-.irlliv ;s u citv In County Wex
ford, ilue south of Dublin, twelve miles
from the tit of Wexford, which i
situated on the southeastern coat.
"Disturbances are also reported fiom
Klllamey. Clorniel and Gorey," continues
the olllcial account Klllarnry Is ,i city
In the Kouthem part of County Kerrj. ,
lu outhw stern Ireland. Clonmrl lies in
i ooiii) vvaierioro, in uu
the island, not far from
Gntey is a small town
coast, siigniiy to tne northeast or emus-1
eorthy '
alement of con-!
i .ie loiiuwing omeuii statement of coo-i
tl.e home forces
The milltaty operations for the sup
pression of tlii! rebellion In Dublin aie
I rocee-dlng satisfactorily
What may be descrlls-d as organ
ized foice" of rebels are confined to a
tew localities, the principal one being
the Saekvllle street dlMrlrt, lu which
the ivbcl headquarters appear to be
the general post office,
A cordon of troops around this dis
trict hns been din ven closer and the
rebels In this locality are now con
lined behind their line of barilcades.
Dther parts of Ireland appear to be.
normal The general trend of reports
ireelvid indicates tliat the disturb
ances are of a local character.
Sniping from houses by small pa-,
ties of irbels established in various
parts of the city continues, The ills,
tiict where It Is most prevalent Is
poithwest of the Fqur Courts, which
an- still In possession of the tubels.
The clearance of snipers Is a matter
f tttne. Considerable damage was
rained by fires on Thursday, A large
hie is .still burning In Saekvllle street.
To-day's casualties In Dublin, as otll
eially reported to-night, were two officers
killed and tlvo wounded. This brings the
total number of oftlclally leporled casual
ties up to twenty-one killed and thirty
two wounded. If Lord Lansdowne's fig
uies announced In the House of Lords
last night are taken as a basis.
The ' mi ftif; .Vrirs yesterday put the
total casualties up to last night nt forty
two killed and forty-six wounded. To
day's ilguies added to then, would bring
the totals to forty-four killed and fifty
one wounded
To sals Wliuliorne'a Jlraaoval,
Sir Henry Cralk, member of Pailln
inetit for Glasgow and Aberdeen univer
sities, gave notice to-day that he will
move In the House of Commons a peti
tion to the King for the removal of
Huron Wlmborne, Lord Lieutenant of I
Ireland, and Chief Secretary for Ireland
lllrrell. The motion also Is to call for
the appointment of a commission to In
mill.. Into the conduct of these two of-
...
rl" " " "
Iilsh aulhorllie.i giew In scope and spirit
to-du. The closest military crnsotshlp
continues to veil the exact state of af
falis In the rebellion torn districts.
owing to the rebels' action of cut
ting most of the telegraph communica
tion between lieland and F.ugland only
fragmentary news was received heie to
day with regard to the developments,
Chief Secretary lllrrell left for Ireland
this afternoon nnd took with him u
parly nf newspaper men, including some
A met lean cnrvrapouilout, lleports from
these are looked for to-morrow.
The main tendency of opinion here Is
that the revolt Is doomed to lgnomlnous
failure, Some of this mornlns's papers
retrurd the situation as stilt serious.
Others treat It as a "tragic farce," whose
results they think will be purely political.
The Idea that Germany wilt derive any
benefit from the afa I r Is scouted. The
attitude of the Nationalists receives
further press recognition.
Chief Secretary UtrrelUa receiving. Ut
JOHN REDMOND HORRIFIED
BY "INSANE"
Su.vs Rebellion Conio on Kvc
of Recognition as l'rpe
Nution.
FKAHS ERA OF Sl.AVEHY
Hf JOIIX RF.DMO.MI.
Leader of the Irlali Aallnnnllala.
ipeanl 'ablt Dripatci to Tnr. H,
London, April IS My Hist feeling on
hearing of this Insane movement was one
of horror and discouragement, almost of i
despair. 1 asked myself whether Ire
land, as so often before In her tiaglc his
tory, was to dash the cup of liberty from
her lips. Was the Insanity of a smnll !
section of her people once again to turn
all her marvellous victories of the last
few years Into Irrepaiable defeat and
send her back on the very eve of her
final recognition as a flee nation into an
other long night of slavery, incalculable
suffering and weary, uncertain struggle"
For, look At the Irish position to-day.
In the shoit space of fortr'yars nr by
constitutional movement has made al
most uubiokenly a triumphant march
from pauperism and slavery to prosperity
and freedom. She has won back the pos
session of the Irish land. She has
stayed emigration. She at last has be
gun in era of national pro.sprrity.
Finally she has succeeded In placing on
the statute book the greatest charter of
fieedom ever offeied her since the e
days
'of the rieatlon. Is ail this to be ios
t?
nen tile war came sue niaile
made her
choice-, which was Inevitable If she was
to be true to all the principles which
she has held through all history and
which she has Just so completely vin
dicated on her own soil, namcl, the
rights of small nations and the sacred
pilnclples of nationality, liberty and
democracy
Others snffrred aa Ireland.
Moreover, the nation. for winch
through all hee history she had felt sym
pathy that r.yjie from common prin
ciples and .common aspirations were
trampled as she In her time had been
trampled under the Iron heel of arrogant
iv list nas jreianii sunereo n tne nasi
which I'olHiid, Alsace. Ili-Isliim and Ser-
oia nivc noi sunerea at t'ie nanus or
tlerniB.li, and 1 may add nln that pjr-
tlon of th" soli of France, her old friend
and nllv. whirl, is In tho i .,f ce,
.many' What has been the recot.l o:
Germany hut one of suppression of na
tlonallty, of freedom, of language In
short the suppiesslon of all the things for
whl-h for renturles Ireland has snug
gled, a struggle in which lirland has
achieved victory"
Take the case of IlelKlum Has iheie
not been there the same ruthless shed-
ding of blood of priests and people that
is pait of Ireland's own hlstorv "
l. ave the. question of principle oat and
was Impossible Hostility to the Just
cause-of the Allies ' Is the're. a sane man
. ? !' . ,1"r'- a "4I"" "''",
in Ireland who does not see th.it this
in Ireland who does not see that thh
i meant the crowning of the newlv won
.ibet ties of Ireland in Iilsh blood-
rills was the opinion of an eiv erwiielni-
lng majotlty of the Irish people. It Is
the opinion whlih thousands of Irish sol
diers have sealed with their blood In
dying for the cause of liberty lu Ireland
and the world Hut anyhow it was the
oplnlm of iteland. and surel I need nr
argue the principle, especially with an
body who professes himself to be a home
ruler
Ireland Alone Must llrclitr.
That the pollc.v of Iteland must be
decided by lieland herself that is the
principle which has been accepted bv
the Irish race everywhere. The millions
of our pcopVe in the I'nlted States and
I elsewhere whose generous devotion has
helped us so largely to win our victories
for the motherland of the rare have a.
ways accepted it However Imunteous
toughest handling from the Tory papers
and even the moderate Judy Ttlcyioph
tainestly mges that he "must be re
placed forthwith, n this crisis liu arisen
because of his own suplnencss ' j
The natty .Vrtrs, on the other hand,
tiei nus tne t. nier necretary. while the
s'iii.j ..rffirns ueiililllUS (Hill UOII1 II.llOll
Wlmborne-. Lord Lieutenant of It eland,
and Secretary lllrrell bn removed Im-
mrui.ueii i ins paper suggests tnut
Lord JUtctiener be made Viceioy of
Various reports have been received of
a stiff tight for the possession of the
u Council bridge on Monday. The Uiu
cers holding the bridge were temporarily
outnumbered and two officers and man)
men were killed.
Gulnness's brewery was the scene of
Severn fighting, illght rebels held It a
while, but were ousted by employees
i and Mild lei h.
' Among the leadets In the fighting In
; St. Stephen's Green was a woman weai
I lug a man's clothes and using fi i,..
volver
Itrarrvlats I'lrrd I pou,
tl ,, Monday from' parade
march, vvlthoul rifles nr ammunition and
uiiawani or what had happened. Itebels
huldlng a coiner house tired a volley
and live dropped. Several others weie
wnumieii.
The selzuie of coiner houses was a
feature of the lighting. The rebels for
rlbly seized such houses, bundled the or
cupants Into the streets, and ban leaded
the windows with furniture, .Many Hoops
were snot trom these nouses,
rhero has been looting on a gieat
i scale. Some thousands of pounds wot th
of jewelry has been taken, but any kind
or siora nas peen looted, even book
stores. What Is useful to the looters
is appropriated and the rest of the stock
ts trnmpled In the streets. Many bar
ricades have been made of the loot,
such as furniture bicycles, cracker boxes,
flour sacks and sugar sacks.
The Delfaat correspondent of the
Daily .Vail sends a long description of
the rioting, the gist of which follows-
"The whole thing la an orgy of drink
ana toot iy tne aregs or the populace.
I lUlf of the .abopa in Saekvllle atmt
IRISH UPRISING
I
i
John Redmond.
the. I. rip, never have they denied 'lie
right of lieland to choose her policy for
heinif. That doctrine has been con
tested only by the very same men who
to-day have tiled to make Ireland a
catspaw of Germany.
In all out Inns and successful stiucgle
to obtain home nile we have been
thwarted nnd opposed b that same
section. We won home rule, not through
them, hut In spite of them This wicked
move of theirs was their last blow at
home tule. It wa no: half as much
treason to the cause of the Allies as
treason to the cause of home I tile.
This attempted deadl. blow at home
rule catrbd on through this section Is
made mole wicked, mote Ineolent. ly
tins fact, that Gerinan plotted It, Or
liumy oigainzcd it. Germany paid foi It.
So tar as Germany's share lu It is con
iriiird it Is a German Invasion of ffe
Ixml. .is brutal, as seltlsh and as cyni
cal as Germany's Invasion of llelgium.
and If Ireland has not been rrduicd to
the same horrors ns llelgium with her
starving pronto he- in is.u red priests,
i,,. , ,,,. i
onvent". i' is not the faun
,',t Geimunv
litanies tmerlenii l'ropni;nnillls.
vml the tln.i! accravatlon of the move- i
iitent is this. The misguided. Insane
vntinii men who have taken part III thli
movement In Iteland have ritked and
some of them have hisf their lives. Ilut
what am I to to those men who
have sent them into this Insane, antl
patilotlc movement while thei lemaltted
safe In the icuiotenrss of Anieitcan
dies"
1 mislit .iilil tli.il Hits mm emelit has
been set In motion bv this nine class of
... . t .l
men ai in' very iiuoiient n urn .iiieiie-.i
guilty of double treason to the generous
land that ec-dved them as well as to the
. . ..... ..
land whbh gave them birth.
i . i. .. i i ,i. .. ,i
lauo Mlllvll K.ivi' lliein iiirwi.
Is It not a national horrot that on the.
1 ,i,,v when we l.'ear that Dublin Fusl -
,i,eis hti've been killed by Irishmen lit the
stteets eif Dublin we reelve the news
how tl' men of the Sixteenth division of
our own Irish ltrlgade and of the same
Dublin Fusiliers had d.isl-ed forward and
b their unconquerable bravery had ie
laken the tienches that the Griniai had
von at lltilluch"
Was thrre ever such a plctuie of the
tragedy which a small cilini of .in
Irlsh faction had so often Intllclrd on
Hie fali.'M hopes and the Inavest deeds
of Ireland"
As to the final result. I do not believe
that this wicked and Insane movement
will achieve Its end" The Get man plot
has failed The majority of the people
of Ireland letaln their e-almnes, their
foitltttde and their unity They abhor
this attack on their Interests, on rights,
hoies and pr.nclples Hume rule has not 1
bet n destiojtd It tcmaius indesttuc-'
tlble. , . I
have been sacked. Itcspect.ible citizens
weir compelled, in unlet
skins, tu p.ittliinate in
to save their
me uiieico.
People of the UlWiht t.v'. haiefoot, In
raggeu pettieo.its an
wearing sealskin
coats and silk blouees
Children are of-
fer'.ng to sell costly gloves at four cents
p.H
"The outlue.ik .s a surpr.se to
i citizens as well .is lo t he authorities
tbe
i
I flEWSPAPER CHARGE.
I Iteporl tiliiiiiilstrnlloii llored triad
Plot lu lie Token i i. WHH happening in the temoter parts of
Washington. April C - Olllcial Inves-! Ireland, but these were conflicting. Peo
,i .. . ,i, ,.. , , . , pie, were chary of expressing opinions
ligation proiMbb w.ll be started by the aH ,h,y M .Th,' lna ext to ou
Department of Justice into statements np. m,iy be a Sir.n I'eitier'
pealing in the tint Ui -.1 oiei iron, printed' "It appears that the advance guard'
it. New Votk. ai.tislm, ..meals of Pu-m-"'c 'je tris-ips from llngl.ind were nl
dent Wilson's Administration .if having lowed to enter Dublin without mishap
warned tie lliittsl. Government in lid-!?"1 ,"'ilv ,rl,,G re-eived for
v.incc of U vpclition which Sir Kogerl l0,ll't of ,roop',
Casement attempted to laud In lieland
a.-, a prelude to the Dublin uprising.
While It Is insisted tn olllcial circles that
I the .VilinliuetiatUiii ),ti"W untiling of the
I erVd. the pur f the Investigation
'will be to detet tnlii" whethet any bisons
, in this count r wi re involved In the con-
i splr.ti'i Should this develop fiom the
I Irqulty pioseciitlous tn.i.v be begun under
the liellttallt laws'.
Olllcials hue still irfusf. i stale pub
licly that liil'oinialloii .omrrulng the
Ciiscnietit expedition was disclosed In tile
papers seized ft inn the New York oltlces
of Von Igel, the Indicted German Km-
bissy attache, but It Is privately ad
i milled that It developed in connection
i with the Investigation Into Voti Igel's
activities Stale Department otllcers de-
chne thai the news of the plot became 1 rebels In Saekvllle street, but not ha
know n to them between the time that tho ' fore the destruction had been wrought
expedition was frustrated and the an-1 "Meanwhile all the trannv ay cars had
tiouiicemeut concerning it In the Ilrltish
Parliament
KiiKlniitl lluna :i,-tf:t Anna Plants.
Special Cable Petpatch to Tns fcv
JaiMHiN, April SR. The Ministry of
Munitions has under lis Jurisdiction 156
additional controlled establishments. The
total unuer in Ministry now b 1,1
Eyewitnesses Tell Thrill
ing Stories of Fights
in Dublin.
SNIPEKS FIKE UPON
BlilTISIL SOLDIERS
Barricades Erected in the
Streets and Barbed Wire
Lines Drawn.
STORES AND SHOPS
LOOTED BY REBELS
Two Priests Shot Young
Girl Braves Fire to Aid
Wounded.
The (ollunlnr rablegram sites the first
new of (be Irish uprising direct from
Dublin. Tratrllrra arrUIng at Holjhra4
from Ireland describe the ntbHai la
Ihiblln aa more serious than the official
British reports Indicate.
.special Cable Dnpatvft to The
Iondon, April "'J. A correspondent
of the naltv Mull telegraphing from
Holyhead Filclay n.eirnltiR quotes a
Ixndoner. Al Cole, wr.o Just arrived at
Holyhead from Dublin, as saying:
"On Wednesday a gunboat came up
the river and demolished Liberty Hall.
Three hundred Sinn Felnets are said to)
have been inside, but that may he ona
of the wild reports that are prevalent.
Later 1 heard cheering and near Hall's
Hrlilge I met a nutnbet of soldiers and
marines
"I was talking with some of them
when from un appaieutly peaceful houeo
down the road came the rattle of rlfift
111 e. followed b the pins of bullets.
That was the point, that was the night
and that the engagement In which sol
dier were injured.
The rebels hiid ban leaded in Sack-
I vule street with bathed wire stretched
i across. One nf my friends was not
allowed to leave the hotel there, and aa
he had not arrived Thursday morning:
I presume that the Sinn Felners still
hold the sttett
snvr Ilia I'lrr In llulilln.
'Thursday morning I managed to get
to Kingston m a Jaunting car.
l.. I l.u, n l.ln rt."
As we,
. -
.snowier Londoner vv . itriu, uuoteit
same con espi.tuu lit. said.
arrived lit DubWi Monday night
anil was passing Klngsbtldge lu a cab
i when people came tunning and shoutlnir
' f,i its f.i turn ..u I. .1..
! to us t
to nn.-
,w m. .. u ...ii. iiaiihci nil.--
io pro-ei-a. men we trlrd to get through
' on foot, but a volley of shots made us
halt. We spent the night in a billiard
saloon. Tuesday morning we t cached
I'pper Mount stiect without mishap,
though we heard thing during tho day
"Wednesday 1 went to Davis's provN
slou store al the coiner of a brldae.
but found the military In charge, having
ill I ven the rebels out. The mJtltaty
began to arrive In the evening. They
i Pioeeedecl to creep to the houses oi-
, cupled by the t ebeis. taking what cov er
. thev could
"The snipers wete te,id, however I
saw soldiers badly wounded It took tis
' all aback a few minutes, when ive wera
Inspired to action by the bravest deed I
ever saw. An Irish girl, not more than
. let years old. dashed out of a bouse nnd
ran like a deer in face of the hall of
the snipers' bullets, grasped n wounded
soldier under his arms and diagged hlin
where otheis were leady to carry him to
the hospital.
Girl Inspires Heroism,
"Tl.eil she ran h.irk for .'inotlier sturU.ie
n,Hl,,. Her example inspired a'.l Nurses
mill , ...i,,,, f.,im !, linnet,.. ..i- s...
and clergy and civilians Joined in tun
lesctie. but that voung girl led us all.
"So far ns 1 know, when I left the
rebels were st. II holding Saekvllle street.
me vvcsuiimi now station, me post
otllce nnd n niimbe- of big houses. No.
bette's confectionery store at the cor
nel of Grafton street was ransacked,
like many other establishments, by th
riffraff, who took advantage of the reign
of terror.
"Theie wete Titanv reonrts of what
Attack nn t'asllr Foils.
"Meanwhile the castle was attacked
Fitful Innately it proved too tough .
stiong bod of rebels had fortified the
South of Dublin vvorkhot.se, which
seemed to lie a branch of theli genetnl
headquarters. Here, from the upper
windows and rooftops, poured persist
ent lire upon the holdb-is
"The main operations wrte dtrerteil
from Llbeity Hall, from whose cellat s
large quantities of ammunition weie
handed nut nod distributed The
enemy swattned a t omul and ncioss the
O'Connel bridge into Saekvllle street,
looting dozens of general shops and leav
lug only one store Intact Jacob's b's
cult factory was commandeered and
looted, Troops met the plundering
tieen seized by tne enemy and converted
Into barricades, a number being turned
on their sides Motor cars, lorries, vani.
sidecars and brewers' drns were slnu.
larly utilized.
"St. Stephen's Green was occupied and
barbed wire was strung across the to.nl
Several well known dubs were looted
and converted Into observation stations
nd inlpera' poatf, riflemen tSectlveVy
"VT-VriMiaMiiifti
A.ICkt,l"ts''-ssAi.''wr,.,.,i
SBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBaajjMama
