Fair ,.m.,r..1 k ^ jl_J["FrOm PfO. <Q WpUM
IJ h<> 4ril ^trf-ttlY SKT^Irir ffl WftAm M< Hour"
ending Highest. noon W j WW WT rfA B
. ?4f?|V AfWVI UUU ;
^ w/ UI?. Dally Annca M.TM1 lulaj, M,M?
No. 20,303. ' WASHINGTON, D. C., SATURDAY, APRIL 29, 1916-TWENTY-TWO PAGES. ONE CENT.
: : ; I "
british surrender
atkut-el-aira:
besieged months
Gen. Townshend Destroys
Guns and Munitions Before
Giving In to Turks.
APTIPM DDDDADI V CODPCn
TO AVOID STARVATION
Efforts to Get Supplies to Force
Penned Up Since December,
Futile.
RELIEF ARMY IS BALKED
Turkish Resistance and Tigris
Floods Keep English Armies
About Twenty Miles
Away.
? -
y^1
HB^i' Vv *' . i ^B
wHHKlMiifk :' ' :*$S
^ ' ^ .-3
GE\. TOWXSHEVD.
LONDON, April 29, 4:45 p.m.
?Maj. Gen. Charles Townshend,
commander of the British forces
besieged at Kut-el-Amara, Mesopotamia,
by Turkish forces since
last December, has surrendered
to the Turks. This information
was contained in a British official
statement issued this afternoon,
which added that Gen. Townshend
destroyed all his guns and munitions
before surrendering.
Unable to Get Supplies.
Gen. Townshend probatfly was driven
to surrender to avoid starvation of his
force. A recent official Turkish com- I
munication said that the position of the
British at Kut-el-Amara was critical
and that they were expecting to receive
small supplies of food by aero- j
plane. An official statement received
yesterday from London showed that a
last effort to send supplies to the garrison
had failed. It was announced
that a ship laden with supplies had
been sent up the Tigris, but that it
had grounded about four miles east of
the city.
Less than a score of miles away, on
the banks of the Tigris below the city.
Is a relief army which for months had
been attempting to reach the besieged
forces of Gen. Townshend. A few
weeks ago several victories were announced
and hope ran high iri England
that the mission would succeed. Of
la'e. rv?-.? vol. me 'jurhs rpsisianre
lias increased. and. aidH by floods,
they ha\e been able to hold the British
in check.
British Suffer Severely.
No official figures have been given
out as to the number of troops which
get forth from the Persian gulf in
November of 1914 on the expedition
which now has ended in surrender. Unofficially
the number has been estimated
as high as 50,000, but it was probably
considerably smaller than this. This
force has suffered heavy losses in
severe battles w ith the Turks.
It was early in December of last year
that Gen. Towrishend s army, beaten In
battle at t'tesiphon. eighteen miles below
Bagdad, retreated to Kut-elArnara.
Since that time it has been
besieged by a large army of Turks,
cut off from all communication with
the outside world, except by wireless.
During the long siege the British beat
off many attacks by the Turks. They
defended themselves no successfully in
encounters about the city that the
Turks at length desisted from their
(.Continued on Second Page.)
Beautiful Illustrations
in The Sunday Star
The PhnogravHre Section of
| The Sunday Star will contain
many faithful reproductions of I
attractive and Interesting photo1
graphs.
There will be a pace of golf j
sad tennis at t.'hevy Chase Club, [
with players la action.
There will also be pictures of
1 aele Sam's military forces la
Mexico.
A page will be devoted to the
recent I>. A. It convention. A
picture of the President welcoming
the Daughters will surely attract
attention because of the detailed
reproduction of the Interior
of the hall full of delegates.
Do not flafl to cot a copy of The
^ luaday htar. _
A
LEGISLATIVE BILL
NErapOOt
Measure, as Agreed to by Con
ferees, Is Submitted to
the Senate.
CURRENT APPROPRIATION
EXCEEDED BY A MILLIOI
Money Provided for the Several D<
partments of Government?No
Consideration Until Monday.
The conference report on the legis
lative, executive and judicial appropria
tion bill, presented in the Senate tc
day as agreed to by the conferee
representing the two houses, apprc
priates $37,925,690.25, which is an ir
crease of $309,641 over the measure a
passed by the House; $284,312 less tha
the bill as passed by the Senate, an
$1,020,S90.50 more than the same ac
for the current year. It is $1,823,68
less than the estimates of the depart
ments concerned for the coming fisct
year.
The conference report retains the sec
tion inserted by the Senate prohibil
ing the payment of more than one sal
ary to any person, but has modifie
that so as to prohibit two salarie
where the combined payments excee
$2,000, except where specifically au
thorized by law; and does not interfer
with salaries to government official
and employes in the National Guard c
Naval Militia.
Senator Martin presented the confer
ence report on the bill immediatel
upon the convening of the Senate. H
asked that the report be printed an
that it should go over until Monda\
as he understood several senators de
sire to go on with other busipess. Th
request was granted.
Conferees' Agreement.
The effect of the action agreed upoi
by the conference committee and sub
mitted in the conference report as t
the Senate amendments is as follows:
Appropriates for the salaries of em
ployes and for expenses of the Sen
ate, as proposed by that body.
Provides for two additional assist
ants in the reading rooms for th
Library of Congress at $600 each
strikes out an assistant at $900 pro
posed for the division of Semitic an<
oriental literature; provides for an ad
ditional assistant at $1,100 and one a
$1 .000 for service in connection wit!
the distribution of card indexes: ap
propriates for two additional watch
men and a carpenter at $900 each, an
strikes out provision for two additiona
laborers at $540 each in the office o
the superintendent of the buildings an
grounds; appropriates $4,000 for re
surfacing the west driveway at th
library and repairs to the stone curb
ing, and $2,500 for refitting of boile
room and coal vaults.
Botanic Garden.
Appropriates $18,000 instead of $19.
500 as proposed by the Senate adi
517,000 as proposed by the House, fo
assistants and laborers, Botanic Gar
den; authorizes the use of not to ex
ceed $200 for traveling expenses an
per diem of the superintendent am
his assistants; provides for the pur
ehase and maintenance of a motor de
livery vehicle. and appropriate
$11,903, as proposed by the Senate, in
stead of $9,000, as proposed by th
House, for miscellaneous and contin
gent expenses.
Office of the President.
Office of the President?Provides fo
additional clerks and messengers i
the office of the President, as pro
posed by the Senate.
Civfl Service Commission.
Strikes out additional clerk of class
civil service commission, proposed b
the Senate; provides for twenty-eigl
clerks of class 3, instead of thirty, a
proposed by the Senate, and twenty-si:
as prupuocu i?y inc riuu?t'; proviaeg IC
thirty-nine clerks of class 2, instead c
forty-two, as proposed by the Senati
and thirty-six, as proposed by th
House; strikes out the increase c
J 2.000 in the sum for traveling ex
penses, and increases the amount fc
field examiners from 55,700 to 57,500.
Department of State.
Strikes out the change of title pre
posed from "counselor for the depart
ment," State Department, to "under
secretary of state"; provides for th
additional employes proposed by th
Senate, with salaries aggregating 572,
880, but transposes and groups thcr
in a separate paragraph; strikes or
the lump sum of 530,000 for erner
gency clerical services proposed by th
House; appropriates 53,500 additions
for stationery, etc., and $2,720 addi
tional for miscellaneous expenses, a
proposed by the Senate, and strike
out the increase of 57,880 in the sui
for rent of buildings.
Treasury Department.
Fixes the salary of the chief of th
customs division. Treasury Departmen
at $4,500, instead of $4,000, as propose
by the House, and $4,800, as propose
by the Senate; increases th* pay of th
foreman of the vault, safe and loc
shOD from 51.100 to $1,200. and thi? r?n
of a memnRer boy from $480 to $600 !
the supervising architect's offlc<
strikes out the appropriation of $25
for law books for the controller of th
Treasury; strikes out the addition*
clerk at $1,000 proposed In the offlce c
the auditor for the War Deparl
ment: transfers a helper at $900 froi
the bureau of engraving and prlntin
to the offlce of the auditor for tfc
Navy Department; provides for foui
teen clerks of class 4, Instead of thii
teen, as proposed by the House, an
sixteen, as proposed by the Senate, ar
seventeen clerks of class 3, instea
of fifteen, as proposed by the Hous
and eighteen, as proposed by the Set
ate, in the offlce of the auditor for tl:
Interior Department; appropriates $10
000 instead of $20,000, as proposed t
the Senate, for temporary clerical hel
in the offlce of the commissioner of in
temal revenue; strikes out the chang
in designation proposed from "watct
men" to "guards" in the bureau of er
(Continued on Second Page.)
WON MAY ASK
) U.S. TO WITHDRAW
- Gen. Scott Expected to Counter
With Proposal to Occupy
Chihuahua.
VISITS ARE EXCHANGED
\l ACROSS BOUNDARY LINE
!- First Formal Conference May Not Be
Held Until Tomorrow
Qr Monday.
!- EL TASO, Tex., April 29.?Gen. Ali_
varo Obregon, minister of war of the de
>- facto government, with the chief mill's
tary commanders of northern Mexico,
>- made a return call of courtesy today on
i- Maj. Gens. Scott and Funston, prelimi?s
nary to the first conference between the
n American and Mexican military officials
d regarding the pursuit of Villa and his
it bandits.
7 In either the custom house in Juarez,
Mex., or at some agreed place in El'
^ Paso the conferees will submit their
proposals. Gen. Obregon, who is vested
with plenary powers from First
Chief Carranza, sounded a hopeful note
with the expression that "we should
reach a 'satisfactory termination of
i(l these negotiations that will meet with
the approval of our people."
d May Propose Withdrawal.
' Minister of War Obregon, with Gens.
' Trevino, Gutierrez, Calles, Gavira and
Is
Santos, will submit the proposition that
the de facto government is ready to
take over the pursuit of the Villa bandits
and protect the border, and therefore
the United States soldiers in Mexe
^ ico should be recaNed.
Gens. Scott and Funston will counter,!
it is understood, with the proposition
that American troops be disposed in j
ceVtain spheres of northern Chihuahua
to remain until the Carranza government
has shown that there is no longer
a Villa bandit menace to the American
n border states.
o Meeting Place Not Decided.
Maj. Gen. Scott said that not until he
- had conferred with Gen. Obregon would
- it be definitely known whether the
first conference would be held in Juarez
- or El Paso. The general added that the
e conference might not be held today,
: but Sunday or Monday.
Gen. Obregon and his party journeyed
J from Juarez this morning to El Paso.
At thp international bridge they were'
* met by a troop of American cavalry,'
h which escorted them through thronged j
streets, guarded with infantry, to the I
" railroad station, where, on Gen. Scott's j
fl private car, the Mexican officials were |
1 welcomed.
f There is no disposition on the part of
fl any one to prolong negotiations, which.
- it is thought, will be concluded early
* next week.
Gen. P. Elias Calles, military goverr
nor of Sonora, and Gen. Francisco Sor- !
rano, chief of staff of Gen. Obregon,
reached Juarez today* Gen. Calles was
accompanied by Mexican Consul Delevier
of Douglas, Ariz.
n Think Obregon Will Yield.
r From an authoritative source it was
! leared that the Mexican minister of war
j had signified his willingness to meet Gens.
Funston and Scott "half way" In the
^ coming negotiations.
It was pointed out in other quarters
s that this might mean that Gen. Obregon
~ would give hiR consent to continue the
1 presence of Gen. Pershing's columns on
Mexican soil provided the actual chase
of Villa's forces was relinquished entirely
to the Carranza troops and provided
r withdrawal was arranged to follow ren
ceipt of assurances from the de facto
' government that the bandit troops had
been wiped out.
It was asserted by Mexican officials
that with the large commands at his
4, disposal Gen. Obregon could vanquish
v the already scattered bandits in a very
few months. They argued that on the
lT completion of this task the Americans
is should consider their mission in MexK
i?-o concluded, and retire immediately
thereafter.
,r The opinion is general that if the
United States insisted on a continL'*
uance of the new troop movements
. recently uruercg u> ucii. r uiibhhi a.uu
>r now being; carried into effect, the
" minister of war could not well refuse
,r to graft the proposal, as to <Jo so
would be to endanger the relations between
the American and Mexican governments.
Col. Dodd's Column Returns
e to Army Base at Minaca,
,! After Pursuit of Bandits
n FIELD HEADQUARTERS. NAMI|f
QUI PA, April 28, by wireless to Columbus.
N. M., April 29.?The column
e of American cavalry under Col. George
A. Dodd, which for six days has been
~ pursuing a large band of Villa bandits,
s under four different chiefs, through the
11 rocky defiles of the continental divide,
was reported today to have returned
to its base at Minaca.
The band is said to be practically all
e dispersed, nurpbers of its members apJ
parently holding to the belief that Villa
. Is dead.
" Carranza forces, consisting of four
trainloads of men, were detraining
k sowtn or ?iUPrr?*ru iwuaj, aim repunw
hfre Bald they intend co-operating with
^ the American command.
-Q More Troops Cross Border.
'? COLUMBUS, N. M., April 29.?Points
along the American line of communicat
tion in Mexico are being strongly reinm
forced by men of both the infantry and
* cavalry arms. Two companies of lnr
fantry marched from the base here
r- early today preparatory to crossing the
d border, while nearly one thousand cavid
alrymen who left Columbus yesterday
.d afternoon broke camp at Gibson's line
e, ranch, fifteen miles west, shortly after
i- daybreak and crossed the frontier,
le While no reason was assigned at milltary
headquarters for thq new move>y
ment of troops into Mexico, it was
lp learned that the infantry, assisted by
i- the Engineering Corps, are to prepare
;e the roads for the heavy traffic of the
i- supply trains and for the coming rainy
i- season. This season frequently makes
(.Continued on ticcond~Fage!)
* i
*?
/i
Story of the Battle of Verd
He has just returned fron
greatest conflict in the wori
able document is in three p;
will find tomorrow in The S
All nrnRNAklV AU/AITIMP
flLLutmiiHH! Himninu |
! RESULTOF CONFERENCE!
i
People Eager for Announcement of
Conclusions Beached by Kaiser
at Meeting With II. S. Envoy.
BERLIN, April 29.?The attention of
all Germany is directed today toward
the audience of the American ambassador
with the German emperor at
general army headquarters. The German
people are watching with eager
interest for word indicating whether
a settlement has been reached in the
submarine controversy.
The bourse had another strong day
yesterday, encouraged by Wall street
advices and optimistic views held here.
A feeling is manifest, however, that
the optimists are outrunning events
too far. Thus the National-Zeitung
warns against excessive optimism,
pointing out that the situation is unchanged.
The Hansabund. the great organization
of commercial classes, has issued
a circular expressing a hope of favorable
issue, but the ^ertainty that the
emperor will make no decision detri
- * - ? > natinnnl dicnit V
menial 10 uci man, o ? ?
and absolutely necessary freedom in
the use of weapons.
U-Boat Called Necessity.
The Tages Zeitung prints another article
laying emphasis on the statement
that the underwater boat is a necessity
In Germany's warfare against Great
Britain.
A Berlin dispatch to the Cologne Gazette
again calls attention to what it
terms the hopes of Germany's enemies
to bring about a breach in GermanAmerican
relations. This dispatch says
the press of the entente powers is
seeking untiringly to hammer the conviction
into th^ whole world that the
conditions as laid down by the American
government will not be acceptable
to Germany and that an efTort is being
made to discredit the German answer
in advance, no matter what it may be.
"The purpose of these efforts." says
the dispatch, "is clear. England and
France are longing for German-American
complications."
The Cologne Gazette adds that it is
interesting to learn what Germany's
enemies desire. "One must study their
words fully and understand them rightly,"
the newspaper declares, "for one
can make important conclusions from
them."
Publishes Attack on Gerard.
LONDON, April 29.?The Kiel Neueste
Nachrichten, the organ of Prince Henry
of Prussia And the extreme submarine
party in Germany, as well as several
other newspapers in small cities, publishes
an attack on James W. Gerard,
American ambassador to Berlin, says
a Reuters dispatch from Copenhagen.
The attack is founded upon a story circulated
by an obscure Berlin paper
published by the German "League of
Truth," which professes to work for
the preservation of friendship between
Germany and America. According to
the story, Mr. Gerard upbraided the
editors of the paper for various attacks
upon him. The Neueste Nachrichten
states that the "League of
Truth" intends to publish letters and
documents which will prove the ambassador
in favor of war with Germany.
Fire in Richmond, Va., Clnb.
RICHMOND. Va.. April 29.?Fire
originating In a pantry burned out
the kitchen wing of the famous Westmoreland
Club this morning and damaged
considerably the breakfast room
and roof garden.
un?By Frank H. Simonds
i the front and writes of the
d's history. This remarkirts,
the first of which you
iunday Star.
LINE UP ON OWEN BILL
Senate Administration Leaders to
Press Corrupt Practices
Measure.
Administration leaders in the Senate
have determined to press for early passage
in the Senate the Owen bill further
to regulate and limit campaign
contributions in presidential, senatorial
and congressional elections. The
committee on privileges and elections
began consideration of the measure today
and plans to report it next week.
T *> t lin nii.i n t i m a (ha Sannta utaarlnp'
committee will meet to frame a legislative
program for the remainder of the
session and it is contemplated that the
Owen bill shall be called up as soon as
the pending rural credits bill is disposed
of.
The Owen corrupt practices measure,
as it is commonly referred to, would
regulate all disbursements of political
committees, limit individual contributions
to any election to $5,000 and limit
aggregate disbursements of all political
committees of all parties made
to influence choice of presidential
electors to $250,000. Aggregate disbursements
by political committees for
nomination or election of any United !
States senator would be limited to
$5tooo and for any representative in
Congress, $2,500.
WAGE SCALE REJECTED.
Federal Arbitration Board Fails to
Settle Railway Strike in Alaska.
SEWARD, Alaska, April 29.?The
Anchorage labor union has rejected the
wage scale offered by the federal arbitration
board endeavoring to settle the
strike among workmen on the government's
railroad in Alaska. The strike
began February 2 2.
The scale offered was: For common
laborers, $3.50 a day of eight hours;
for longshoremen, $4.50 a day; for carpenters,
machinists and other skilled
workmen, 70 cents an hour.
According to railroad officials the J
4merip!in wnrkmpn at A lifhnra P-A uorn ,
satisfied with the scale, but the foreign
element, comprising a majority of
the common laborers, dominated the
meetings of the union and stood out
for a minimum of 50 cents an hour for
common labor.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senates
Met at noon.
Resumed debate on rural credits
bill.
Privileges and elections committee
agreed to push Owen bill
to amend corrupt practices act.
Houses
Met at 11 a.m.
Agricultural appropriation bill
considered.
I
DISTRICT IN CONGRESS.
Senates
Conference report on the legislative,
executive and judicial bill
was presented to the Senate.
A petition to Congress to appropriate
the necessary funds to
erect a national archives building1
In the District was laid before
the Senate by the Vice President.
I
ggtr 11
*
S;
ar
re
G
D
hi
er
TOMORROW I
"WHY THE PRICE OF GASOLINE
IS SOARING"?Either tC
new sources must be found
from which to obtain It, or Improved
processes employed to j
Increase production from pres- 1 di
ent sources.
m
"IS BAKER THE MAN FOR THE !
JOB?" by BURTON J. HENDRICK?an
intimate pen-pic- 1
ture of the new Secretary of ;
War. | Sa
"A ROUND OF MAY DAY CELE- | ^
BRATIONS FOR THE CAPI- ^
TAL"?Festal spirit of spring
pervades the city. j
W?
"COLD COMFORT," a story well th
worth reading, by HOL- sti
WORTHY HALL.
"BELLIGERENT NATIONS RE- : pr
SPECT THE NEUTRALITY I mi
OF HOLLAND," by CHARLES j
M. PEPPER?The Dutch are g-a
the most fortunate of neutrals ' mi
In Europe. , 101
S:i
"THEIR NAMES WILL LIVE re!
FOREVER"?a two-page spread se.
of photographs. I jij
"A LIFE-SAVING CORPS TO
PATROL THE RIVER THIS
SUMMER"?Police department j
enters systematic campaign to
reduce the number of deaths by pa
drowning. th
"THE WILLIAM J. BURNS OF s,i
BUGS," by FRED C. KELLY. ls
! i th<
THE RAMBLER" writes of the po
, Difficult Run region, near Cf
i Washington. I ..
"A NEW YORK WOMAN TO BE j f""
OFFICIAL HOSTESS FOR | *>u
THIRTY THOUSAND '
WOMEN." Co
"CASHING IN AN INVESTMENT," Jai
by ALBERT W. ATWOOD.
1 no
"CARLOTTA, EX-EMPRESS OF
j MEXICO, MAY REGAIN SAN- cel
ITY," by STERLING HEILIG. an
"SWEDEN, NORWAY AND DEN|
MARK IN CONFERENCE AT *
j COPENHAGEN TO DECIDE Du
MEASURES OF P R O T E C- Th
TION." wh
'BIRDS OF THE AMERICAN **
CONTINENT"?U n c I e Sam'* "U
chief ornithologist tells of the
government's remarkable ex- 1
' hlblt of bird specimens. ofJ
"ANCHORAGE, BOOM CITY OF j ^
ALASKA, WHERE UNCLE ma
SAM'S NEW RAILROAD BE- ev<
i GINS." by FRANK G. CAR- ^
PENTER. be,
"THE GOVERNMENT AS A BIG ?fT
BROTHER. A BIG BOSS AND to
I BIG BOOSTER OF BUSINESS." li?
thr
"SHE SITS ON SOAP-BOX the
j CHAIRS." ?**
"WHAT IS A BAD BOY?"
"HOW OTHER COMMUNITIES c
| HAVEL CLEANED UP." ig
"THE WINDIEST CORNERS IN tha
THE WORLD." ous
Ire
"YOU WOULDN'T BE SEEN
WIT/H A DIRTY COLLAR?
WHY LIVE IN A DIRTY
TOWN?" wll
"ROSE GROWERS OF BROOK- [ng
LAND, D. C., ALREADY PRE- T
PARING FOR ANNUAL EX- tod
HI BIT"?Entire families spend
their spare time in the gardens. cur
-IN THE- wj
SUNDAY STAR ?
u
)UBLIN IS IN FLAMES
AS STREET FIGHTING
GOES ON UNABATED
[undred Persons Reported Killed and
Injured in Conflict Between
British and Irish.
i
IANY REBELS ARE CAPTURED
WHEN DRIVEN FROM POSITIONS
einforced Military Makes Steady Progress in Suppressing
Uprising, but Armed Rioters Still Hold Many
Sections of City.
LONDON, April 29, 12:40 p.m.?Parts of the city of Dublin are
flames, a dispatch filed at Belfast says. Street fighting continues
id there is much looting, it is said, but the reinforced military is
aking steady progress. Most of the shops are closed and pasnger
communication is still cut oft".
One dispatch received from Ireland this afternoon says that
ackville and Grafton streets in Dublin are in flames, and that
tillerv is being used on the houses, the inhabitants having been
moved.
The rebels have been driven out of their positions in St. Stephen's
reen with bombs, after sustaining heavy losses, says the Daily
ews.
Four hundred Irish rebels were made prisoner when the troops
iptured the green and drove them out with bombs.
Upward of 100 persons have been killed or injured thus far in
'ublin, a correspondent at Belfast reports. He says the rioters,
idden in houses commanding important street junctions or coved
by barricades in the streets, are keeping up a constant fusillade,
he list of casualties continues to lengthen. It includes many
vilians who, the correspondent says, have been picked off by
inn Fein snipers for no other reason than that they were believed
i be loyal.
The cordon of troops is being drawn gradually, but surely,
ound the rebel strongholds. The authorities are carrying on their
fficult task with the greatest forbearance. Every effort is being
lade to avoid unnecessary bloodshed and damage.
Looting* in Progress. the passage from England with the news.
. . . paper men. As he stepped ashore he
Eyewitnesses arriving here state that shouted cheerily. "I wish you luck, genlen
they left Dublin Thursday night tlemen. I don't know what will happen
ckville street was completely 1n the ~?!!n?areahe.re "
, ^ t . _ fcoldiers and rebels fired at one another
nds of the rebels and was blockaded from street corners, wharves, roofs and
th barbed wire entanglements. Hun- windows. Sentries with fixed bayonets on
eds of visitors in the hotels were J"**,'JEST,
able to get away. Looting of shops j guns joined in and added to the deafenls
in progress in many quarters, and in& sunflre.
e horses were lying dead in the Positions in Battle Area.
-The military operations for the sup- T ,he qUal?he respective po-,,ions
ession of the rebellion in Dublin are could be s?"n- rebels were holding a
oceeding satisfactorily," says a com- square section of territory from the point
jnication issued by Field Marshal where Liberty Hall stood before a gunench,
commanding the home forces. : boat destroyed it as far as Sackvilla
What may be described as the or- | street, to St. Stephen's Green and the Four
nized forces of the rebels," the com- i Courts district, and along the southern
jnication adds, "are confined to a few ! side of the river to the Butt and O'Conlalities,
the principal one being the neh bridges. They also held isolated pockville
street district, in which the sitions in a flour mill and a disused disbel
headquarters appear to be the tl5-er>' opposite the Northwall station.
neral post office ?S J f". this sectiori there was eonsider'The
cordon of troops around this a"le fighting the whole day. The distillery
strict has been drawn closer and the ^f"SK iScen^ one of the sharj>est lltbels
in this locality are now con- ^rX'eps. ,hJ "prising. The rebels
ed behind their line of barricades. T m" y m"
narament and many of them were seen.
? TTr-rxm TT??r?r- covered with flour, making their way to
Snipin& From Mouses. the distillery. Once there thev hoisted the
Sniping from houses in which small of'a^uare'tower floated fro1" the corntr
rties of the rebels have established Soon a naval gun opened fire The first
emselves in various parts of the city ?bot bit the tower, and then half a dozen
nsi. j. . ? * ?. in succession struck the roof around it.
II continues. The district where this The flag still flew and the rebels replied
most prevalent is that northwest of with rifles and a machine gun.
e Four Courts, which are still in the .'H?? bombardment ceased after a dozen
-aw w 1 rr. 1 shots, but was renewed later. Hit after
ssession of the rebels. The clearance hit was scored, but the flag remained
these snipers is a matter of time. hanging from its pole. One shot hit a
Considerable damage was caused by miniature eaiade'down'the
es on the 27th and a large fire is still walls of the distillery,
rning in Saekville street. ni*ht ff,n and aI1 firing except
In the other parts of Ireland the 5 ? 7. ****** fhp was sTil1 flying
e.,.? i? defiantly over the side of the little tower.
lIM'ipai ccnirin ui *- ' "1 ' " i
unty Galway and in Enniscorthy.
sturbances also are reported at Kil- Barricades Are Shelled.
' The other Cpa^"s of?7reland appear Another brief artillery bombardment
mial. was directed against barricades in
'The general trend of the reports re- Sackville street. Clouds of thick
ived indicates that the disturbances ? . ,
? local in character." smoke soon rose around various prominent
objects in that part of Dublin as
Rebels Number 12,000. the shells burst, while between times
^ dispatch to the Daily Mail from the rattle of the machine guns seemed
blin Fays that the rebel forces on like a continuation of the reverberaursday
numbered about 12,000, of tion of the heavy pieces,
lich 2,000 were Larkinites and 10,000 So closely guarded were the apre
Sinn Feiners. There were a large proaches to the fighting zone that it
niber of peaceful citizens who were was impossible to gauge accurately
; victims of stray bullets, in the what damage was done, and attempts
ivy casualty list, the dispatch adds. by correspondents to pass along a
Mthough the story of the early hours street leading toward the center of the
the Dublin uprising has now been <*ity brought upon them a detachment
closed in considerable detail. Eng- of soldiers with weapons ready for
id still is without authentic infor- use. The troops had early in the retion
as to the progress of later bellion learned to distrust civilians,
;nts. some of whom were found to be evis'ormal
telegraph, telephone and dently in sympathy with the Sinn Fein.il
services with Ireland have not ers if not in league with them. Wearin
restored, and the existing means ing khaki meant the same as a sen
communication are subject to such tence to death.
ict censorship that it is possible When the revolt began at 1 o'clock
obtain only fragmentary informa- Monday afternoon the soldiers walkn.
Such news dispatches as came ing about the city were, as usual, un ough
this morning added little to armed, and numbers of them paid the
i information contained in last full penalty without being able to defht's
official advices and stories of fend themselves.
; witnesses.
' Uniforms Bring- Trouble.
Disaffection Has Spread.
Other governmental uniforms brought
)f the situation outside Dublin little discomfort for their wearers. The Dubknown
beyond the official admission ]jn metropolitan police were exposed to
.t the disaffection has spread to vari- somewhat similar treatment to that
i localities in the west and south of accorded soldiers by the rebels, and
land. Field Marshal French's state- most of the policemen went to their
nt of last night described these dis- homes and changed to civilian clothing,
bances as local in character, and so far Postmen on duty at the general post
has been revealed by information office, which was the first building
Ich has passed the censorship they seised by the Sinn Feiners, and later
:e not been attended by heavy fight- became their headquarters, were sent
away and told to come back in a week
'he streets of Dublin were deserted for their wages, which would be paU1
ay except for sentries and military in Irish republican coinage. The rebels
irds. Business was at a standstill, cut all the wires, destroyed the apilians
peeped anxiously from behind paratus and seized all the money they
tained windows. Field guns were bark- could find.
, machine guns rattling: and rifle flre
s pattering, apparently from every Rebels Well Equipped.
irter at the same time. *
/hen the Associated Press correpsond- Everything except failure seemed to
landed early this morning at the have been foreseen by the rebels, who,
^.,neSUhm%Ue%mr,r.n!XP? when th?/ the
Inity was frequent. Augustine Bir- well uniformed as were the regular
i, the secretary for Ireland, had mads soldiers. Their clothing, arms and
^ ^ i
