CITY
EDITION
BUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
TIHKTY-SKVEXTU YEAR.
VOL. 11 N. 2.
CITY j
EDITION,
ALBUQUERQUE,' NEW MEXICO, SATURDAY, APRIL 29779167
AMERICANS NOT
10 QUIT MEXICO
UNTIL BORDER IS
WELL PROTECTED
Believed General Obregon Will
Agree to Plan Determined
Upon by Authorities at
Washington City,
TROOP MOVEMENTS
CAUSE SPECULATION
Carranza Forces Concentrate
at Guerrero, Close to Persh
ing's Lines; U. S, Infantry
and Cavalry Go Southward,
THE WEATHER
WICATIIEK FORECAST.
Denver, Colo.. April 28. New Mex-
loo: Saturday partly cloudy, warmer
east portion; annuity unsettled and
cottier.
LOCAL WEATHER REPORT.
For twenty-four hour ending at
o p. m. yesteruay.
Maximum temperature, 71 degrees;
minimum, 38 decrees: range, 33 de
gress; temperature at 6 p. m., 0, de
grees; northwest wind; clear.
CITV BAXK CLEARINGS.
Yesterday
fV MORNIN9 .IOUIWAI. PfCIAU LCAtKO WlftK
Kl Pbro. April 28. On the eve of
he Obregon-Scott-Kunston confer
ence tomorrow over the disposition of
I'nlted Stateg troops In Mexico, the
feeling grow in Kl POfSo tonight that,
tentative American occupation of
part of Chihuahua, pending- erad- j intermediary
icauon or iiia Danus 'Dy trie
l facto government, would cer
tulnly result from the negotia
tions. The American represent
atives came to Kl Paso thla evening
tight-mouthed regarding tlielr plana
of action and their Instruction from
the "Washington government. All
opinion regarding the outcome of the
deliberations was based, therefore, on
the attitude of Carran.a officials ar
riving with General trbregon
famous conference with Villa on the
International bridge.
General Obregon's special train ar
rived from Chihuahua City not long
after g o'clock this morning, having
on board also Governor lgnaclo F.n
riquez, of the state of Chihuahua.
Shortly afterward the special train of
General Jacinto Trevino of Torreon.
military commander of the nort beaut
diatrlct of Mexico, rolled in. Accom
panying General Trevino was General
Samuel 8. Santos, Presidente Jose de
Luis Herrera, of Parral, and a number
of other celebrities.
General Gnvlra, commander of the
Juarez garrison, and Andrea Garcia,
Mexican consul In Kl Poso, met the
special trains. General Gavlra was
accompanied by his staff and by a
military band, which blew a fanfare
as the minister of war stepped from
the private c.ir.
All Juaror. turned out to witness the
arrival. General Obregon wag es
corted from the railway station to
General Gavira's headquarter
through the crowded streetsin which
hundreds of soldiers had beenjioeted.
Hefore going to General TJavtra's
residence for luncheon, General Ob
regon held a conference with Consul
Garcia, who was chosen to act as the
between the Mexican
HEAVY FORCE OF
LI
CAVALRY ORDERED
INTO MEXICO TO
AID PERSHING
JOHN REDMOND
SPEAKS BITTERLY
OF MEN WHO ARE
RUINING IRELAND
Reason for Movement Not Dis
closed, but More Than Regi
ment Are Crossing Bordei
..From Near Columbus,
AEROPLANE EQUIPMENT
NO LONGER LACKING
Concentration of Carranza
Troops Near Guerrero Is
Cause of Some Apprehen
sion by American Officers,
11 MOSNtNS JOUftxAV. SMCItl LlAltO ,!)
Columbus, X. M.. April 28. The
largest force of troops which has left
Columbus since the Inillnl command
crossed the border siv weeks ago, is
encamped tonight on the frontier, fif
tarn miles west of here. The troops
consisting of more than a regiment of
cavalry, are preparing to cross the
"tie into Mexico at daybreak tomor-
Declares Revolutionists Are in
League With Germans Who
Have Crushed Every Weak
People Encountered,
BLAMES AMERICANS
WHO AIDED CONSPIRACY
Dully l.v Carrier ur Mall, M
n Month. Nlngln CoHe,
who have taken p.irt hi this move
ment in Ireland have risked, and
some ,f them have lost (heir llvrs.
Hut, what am 1 to say of llmee meu
who have sent them into this Insane
and null-patriotic movement while
they have remained in the safe re
motenesa of American cities'.'
"I might add that this movement
has been set In mot inn bv this same
class of men at the very moment
when America is demanding repara
tion fur the blood of Innocent Amer
ican men, women and children, shed
by Germany, and thus they nrn guilty
of double treason treason to the gen
erous land that received them, as well
aa to the land which gave them birth.
"J It not an additional horror that
on the very day when we heard that
the mi-n of the Dublin fuslleers had
been klllerl by Irishmen in the streets
of Dublin, we received news of how
men of the Sixteenth division--our
own Irish brigade and of the same
Dublin fuslleers had dashed forward
and by their uneomiuerable bravery
retaken trenches ihe Germans had
won at Hull? Was lliere eve such
a picture of tragedy which a small
sort Ion of an Irish faction bus so often
Inflicted on the fairest hopes and
the bravest deeds of Ireland?
"Aa to the final result: I do not
bellevo this wicked and insane move
ment will achieve its ends. The Ger
man plot hits failed. A majority of
the people of Ireland retain their
FIRS! DETAILED REPORT OF
REVOLUTION III IRELAND
TELLS OF DISTURBANCES
Of 51 FEIN AND HONS
Points to Dancer to Country si-i''. f-mtude ami unity. They,
' - f j abhor this attack on their interests, t
rreedoin wnen boon vvasi -ir hums ami their principles,
Almost Won by Peaceful TEXAS SENATOR WOULD
ORGANIZATION OF SEPARATISTS
SEIZES MANY STRATEGIC
POSITIONS IN DUBLIN CITY
Parliamentary Means,
jand American representatives. At
in is meeiiiiit it was Darticviiariv set
tled that the first session of the con-' row
ference will bo held tomorrow at 10 Reason for Order Unknown,
a. m. and that the nwetins p!aeo The soldiers left Columbus upon or
shall be the customs house In Juarez, j aPrs of Gen. J. J. Pershing, exp.dl
A. second conference is probable on ,ionarv commander, and it was stated
i , , , . I at military headituarters here tonight
Wp '.mJ'm flfd,not!that. no reasons had been outlined in
o3' ",?.. un"J C:3" :''k , llH;the order. Per-otw in constant touch
h TV i, , ,,i V , A j w j th the border situation offered va
lon by Itrigadier General George rl' ,. rino , ovl.r,.t..(.
From an authoritative source it was I Jr-. t ornmander of the El PasoiwaH (hat (i,ineViil i.f.ri,hjnfr ff.p,K thnt
learned that the Mexican minister of bu'' "nd. ' ,."n!,uTr 1 his shortened liny of communication,
war had signified his intention tn , Afi".r. JIlpiL"fg Consul , .,,. fp, ..,,,, ,
war had signified his Intention to
meet General Koott and General Fun
ston "half way' in the coming nego
tiations. Can Wipe Bandit Out.
U was pointed out in other quarters
that this might mean that General
Obregon would give his consent to
further presence of General Per
shing's columns on Mexican soil, pro
vided the chase of the Villistas was
relinquished to the Carranctstas, and
provided withdrawal was arranged to
follow receipt of assurances from tho
ile facto government that tho bandit
groups had been wiped out. It was
asserted by Mexican officials that
-, with th large cn'iini'Mid M ; dis-,
Posul, General Obregon emi Id van
quish the already scattered bandits in
a short time, not more than a very
few. months.. They argued that on tho
completion of this task, the Ameri
cans Could conclude their mlsfion In
Mexico successfully ended und could
retire northward.
Cannot Kernse Demands.
The opinion was general that if the
United States insisted on a (continu
ance of the new troop dispositions re
cently ordered by General Kunston,
and now being carried Into effect, the
minister of war could not well refuse
to grant the propositi, as to do so
would he to endanger the relations be
tween tlie American and Mexican gov
ernments.. Another circumstunce Influencing
"peculation regarding the outcome of
the conference was-tho confidence of
tho Mexican officials that It would
reach a speedy conclusion.
"Wo do not expect uny difficulties
in reaching an agreement." said one
of them. "The whole business should
be concluded in time for us to return
Monday."
The belief that General Obregon
would be able to give the conference
unexpected expedition caused a re
Port to spread that the minister of
war had been given full power to
reach a decision in behalf of his gov
ernment. However, this could not be
verified.
Gossip regarding the coming meet
ing whs Interrupted this afternoon by
report? from the .American expedi
tions that large forces of Carranza.
troops were being moved into tho
Guerrero district. On top of this
came Information from Columbus, the
American base station, that, a large
force of United States Infantry had
J'een moved south along the American
line of communication and that on
important dotachment of cavalry had
been moved westward to Gibson's line
'ancn in order that It might cross
Into Mexico tomorrow morning.
Precautionary 5Idvement.
Speculation regarding the meaning
of these movements proved futile.
Neither the Mexican nor American
military authorities would discuss
them except to say that they repre
sented the ordinary precautionary
steps of forces under arms. The en
trance of additional Carranza forces
Into the Guerrero district was partly
explained as designed to prevent any
eomblnation of Villista and other fac
tions nsainst the American troops.
Kl Paso and Juarez saw more ex-;
citement . todav than thv have had
since General Hcott came to the bor-
ti4iBituuti on I'rtK two.) ;
. ,
UNITY OF POWER
ONLY BASIS OF
LASTING PEACE
which extends from Columbus to San
Antonio, u distance of about 325
miles, Is In need of further strength-
(ening. Another was that the expedi
tionary commander fears thut one of
the stipulations in the conference be
tween Generals Scott, Kunston und
Obregon will be that no more Ameri
can irooiM shall cross the boundary
and is, anticipating such an agree
ment 'by bringing his commund to a
strength that will enable, it to cope
with uny emergency.
Oncral May Visit Columbus.
It waa reported here that Major
Gonerala Hcott and Funstnn will come
to Columbus during one of the Inter
' " ' !val of the conference, it was jvolnt
v " 1 1 led out that It Is probable that the de-
jpartmental commander and chief of
Oscar Straus Delivers Notable,"1"" may d,Ki,'e muko a" 'pcc-
Address on International Re-jt redinposiuon of the
COnStrUCtiOn Before Nation-' Active preparations for continuing
I ,i, , , o vw expedition continued here today,
SI nStltUte Ol OCienCe. I aeroplanes and a device calculated to
(equip motors for railway travel, holme
tested and supplies being dispatched
to the troops in the field. Plans were
T MORNIN JOUXXM. -rlCIAl LIAMO WIII
London. April 28 7:lS p. m.
John Hedmond, leader of the Irish
nationalists In tho house of com
mons, tonight gave the Associated
Press tho following; stutement con
cerning the uprising In Dublin: I
"Jly-fiist feeling, of course, on
hearliikt of this insane movement,
wa ono of horror, discouragement, !
PROVIDE FARM HOMES
.V HOSNINa JOUNNAU VPVCIAL LIAMO W,t)
Waslngton, April OS, Senator
Sheppard, a democrat of Texas,
told In the senate today that the,
United States was menuced by a I
rapidly increasing aristocracy of land!
(owners and proopsed a constitutional)
amendment to autbonzn congress to.
urchnse lanpd anywhere In the coun
try, hold, improve, sub-divide audi
It .....I... 1 4... i
. i , , ... niii i. i u oitini: emu i ui me ill,;
and almost despair. I asked n iy.f f ,m,miraKillK fnn homn lwn.
Lord Lieutenant Proclaims It "Insurrectionary" and Influ
enced by Foreign Power; Shooting Is 'Promiscuous am
Apparently Aimless; Military Authorities Ample and Trca';
Matter Leniently in Hope That Disturbance May Be Sup
pressed With Little Bloodehed; Story of. Riots Not Later
Than Tuesday, and No Information by 'Newspaper Dis
patches Is Secured. Since That Date; Some Positions
Held by Rebels Are Taken by Troops. '
(By Morning Journal Sjwcia! Leawd Wire.)
1 - ,i -.V.-l',,at0 "f Massachusetts ami approved' ,.,,., ..
anlty of a Minull section r three to ,., hv ,, I ll.l.lf l Xltsll I. is
le once again to turn XI j J.,r Vo,o PiPU-( SATIM IKD ITH V
wneuior ireiaiiu, as so uhbh "eiuiTi h.
In her tragic history, was to dah!,.u '
the cup of liberty from her tips
was the insanity
of her peop
her marvelous victories of the last
few yeurs into irreparable Wetj
and to wend her back on tho very
eve of her final recognition as a!
free nation Into
The uniendment, he said, .
was similar to one adopted In the
U()GIMS 4
,t,:rri;st , i ysi t
hewnrrt, Alaska, April 2S, The An- 4. 11... u...,.,uti.. ' .. ..,u
,i.thm. ir.n, i,iLrht f'hor.ige labor union rejected today j. n,,,,,,.. ...!..
iitr imiivu nvw -'n-im - .ei . . . - I ' '"u t t xr 111 tn iiiiih nt in"
Of slavery, Incalculable suffering, nnu ! l" "ie oueieu ,y toe leiterai faetorllv," wivs a letter Is-
wearv and uncertain siruggling, arbitration board endeavoring to set-! HU(,t ,y K,,(1 Marshal French,
Progress of Ireland. I e siuue among- woi amen on tlie eominHiidlng the home forces,
"For, look at the Irish posllipon government railroad in Alaska
today. In the short space ot forty
years Ireland has by a constitutional
movement made an almost unbroK
enly triumphant march from pauper
ism and tilavery to prosperity and
freedom. . .She has won back the
possession of Irish land; she has
stayed emigration; she has at last
begun an era of national prosper
ity. Kinully, she has succeeded in
placing on the statute books the
greatest charter of freedom ever of
fered her since the days of Grattau.
Is all this to bo lost? .
"When war eaine, she mado a
choice which Whx Inevitable if hh
was to bo true, to all the principles
which aho had held through all her
LEGAL LIGHTS
DENOUNCE USE
OE SUBMARINES
late last nlghl.
1 "What may be described as the f
If organized forces of tlie rebels,"
the communication , adds, -are
I confined to a few loculltlcs, the
! principal one being the Hsckvllle
P street district, In which the rebel
1 headquarters appear to be the
1 general postoffice.''
I .
Ixiiidon, April a (l:;ie 111.) -i
the Dutdin rebels have been
driven out of their ., positions in f
Ht. Joseph's green with bombs,
after sustaining heavy losses,
says the Dally News.
Hlilg-lon, I tela ml, April a
lY MORNINS JOUSMAi. (KCIAL Lf AICO Wll
New i'ork, April 28. Oscar 8.
Straus, in an address on "Interna
tional Reconstruction," Pelore the
National Institute of Social Sciences
here today, said that any lasting ar
rangement for the peace of Europe
must be baaed on a. unify of power,
"by placing- the might of the united
nations on the same principle as wt
oonatltute the Joint power of the i
lorty-eight states or our union as trtftjuiers, who previously had been with
guardtan of the right of each state." j drawn from tho district, w ero being
After tracing the development of freconcentrated near Guerrero. Tho
International lows, Mr. Straus Bald ostensible purpose of the movement
tho present, war In Europe arose from j was given as the prevention of the
two conflicting schools of thought, j combination of adherents of the sev
They are composed, he said, "of those era! Mexican factions In the section
who hold that in the relations of na-lagainst the Americans. Military nu
being made also to equip a squadron
of motorcycles with machine guns.
If these prove practicable! it la said
they will be used when speedy rein
forcements are necessary.
Carranza Troop Move.
Some apprehension was aroused to
day by press reports from the front
that, four tralnioads of Carranza sol-
tions there Is no room for moral con
sideratiops, In other words, that might
makes right. The others are those
who maintain that the relationships
of nations should rest on moral prin
ciples." "Underlying these Issues," Mr.
Straus 6a.id. "was yet another, the
conflict between absolutism and de
mocracy or constitutionalism."
Isolation Impossible,
Th speaker covered bripfly the
history of the foreign relations of
the X.'nlted States since the Monroe
doctrine was formulated and pointed
out thut he believed that the policy
of Isolation for this country is Im
possible. "Whether we will or no," he said,
"we are a near and Intimate member
of the familv of nations and must
take our share of the responsibilities
this intimate relationship involves.
The reconstruction of the world af
ter this war is over will be our con
cern as much as it will la the con
cern of anv of the belligerent na
tions." In urging national preparedness,
Mr. Straus said: "At. three different.
periods during the last twenty-nv
thorlties here, however, seemed satis-
fled that General Pershing's command
Is amply able to care for itself in even
the remotest possibility which might
be developed.
VILLA REPORTED TO
BE AT URBINAS RANCH
L.r.:!!)".J"1'lr!Americall Society of Interna- hundred in;., WrV '""l!!:
C.,l I ... e., C,,k,nn I""" """ T cap-
uuiidi luw oays ouuiiici 01
com pi
soil, namely, the rights of small na
tions, sacred principles of national
ity, liberty and democracy.
Sympathy Willi Oppressed lYophN
"Moreover, the nations for which
through all history she has felt the
sympathy that come from common
principles and common aspirations
were trampled, as she in her time
had been trampled, under the iron
bles Should Not Be Per
mitted to Destroy Ships,
r lured St. Joseph's green and
drove them out with Itomhs.
t
imr MOMNINS JOURNAL aMOIAL LCAMS Wtmul
W'UH.ilngton. Anrll 28. -Submarine
heel of arrogant force. warfare upon commerce was de-
"Wh.it has Ireland suffered In theinoiineed by an array of prominent
past which Poland, Alsace, Uelglum I Jurists today before tho American
and Serbia hnvo not suffered at the' Society of International Law, Con
hands of Germany? And I may add : eluding a two-day program of ad
also that portion of the soil of! dresses on questions relnting to the
France, our old friend und ally.j Kuropenn war, most (if the speakers
which Is in the bands of Germany? earnestly favored ritricting the uso
wnat lias been tho record or (lor- (f th
many but tho suppression of nation- agencies to established legal bounds
ailty, of freedom und of language - father than mollification of the inter
In short, the suppression of all things; national code In their favor,
lor which, for centuries, Ireland rf James S. Kceves, of the Uni
ons siiuKgieu, me victory or wtncn ! VPr8uv f,f Michigan, erltlel.ed alleged
iiuiuiiu iiiis ucnicvon ; iai;e me
easu or r.cigium. lias mere not ,, ....-,.), ,i,,w,n
be,,n there the same ruthlless shed-1 i.-..1 uMeh Miner, of the t'nlver
Dublin, Tuesday, April 2." (.1 p, m.,
via liOinlon, April 2H, 10:15 a. m.)
Dublin bus now been -held up for
twenty-four hours by a combination
of members of the Sinn I'eln society
an,, followers of James Utrkln, head
of tliv Iransport workers' union and
widely known as a strike leuder.
There has been the same violence In
Iho city as marked tho big street ear
strike of 1913, which was beaded by
liiirkin, but supplemented by the use
submarine and other new war of an armed force with military pre-
tensions and the ulr.urn of strategic.
points designed to give 1 he disturb
ance the aspect of a. revolution.
Due to l'oi'olgii lnriiicoi e.
The lord lieutenant of Ireland In
hangs In the American position re- a proclamation today, calls the move
ment liisui rectlonaij , and declare
ding of blood of the priests and tho j
people thut is part of Ireland's own'
history :
sity of Virginia, presented nt length
of dinlomacv of the great Kuropean
nations. With rare exceptions in
Important and vital issues, the diplo
macy of the stronger nations won out
and that of the weaker nations cor
respondingly failed."
Annies Aid to Diplomacy.
"It is a mistako," he said, "to be-
MOIN JOUAi. CIAL illHD WlH'
Chihuahua, Mexico, April 8. Col
onel Cardona, at San Pedro, has re
ported that General Gomer., pursuing
a small band of outlaws in the hills
southeast of Lflguna, killed the ban
dit leader, Fermiza, and six others',
besides dispersing the force
Reliable Information brought here
places Villa In or near Urbinus ranch
at Los Nleves. The commander at
Kscalon also says small Villista
bands are operating- in that region,
while a report from Sierra Mojada
claims that all is quiet In that region.
Ijirge gangs of laborers are at
work on the railway between Chihua
hua and Torreon putting in new ties
and rails. A new bridge has been
.... 4V..J ui. itltll'lll.lU ulW.llli,
Leave the question of Drln-I . " .J .7 .,.. , .. r,.' .,....
clple out ana consider the question j ,,,m,J, "v"'
oniy or rne mere Interests of Ireland V,;:,,,,.,,r ,,. ttio,i,lne snd
herself. What did the situation do Adm tt log thu b h ma 1 us snd
tnand'' I mini s nave u icuonaie ,ie 10 iiiini-
' v.. 1. tn.11., !ern warfare, Prof. Anion S. illershey,
I "Neutrality" That w. inii,.,sl th" !"'""' nnlverslty, said Ihelr
Ible Hostility ,0 he us ' ,o,.l,i be mainly or snbstanllally
the allies? Is there a an man ' for defensive purposes aim ne mainiy
Ireland who does not see that this1 confined to belligerent wut'rs,
meant tlie drown nir of tmintiri-ii iimiuni use on 1 or oiko .
w It h
newly won liberties in Irish blood?!
Kverett P. W heeler, of New York,
years I saw at, close range tne piay ... v.,, ...
rainy season, i-rospecta are good for
a large wheat crop In both the Iji
guna district and Conchos and north
em river valleys.
IIva .lint- uniitsiu nnrl nnvlf.S srp USe-
der In August, 1915, to hold his now less when not engaged In war. Arm
ies and navies are the potential forces
behind diplomacy when vital interests
! . . . .. . 1 . : 1 . . a. frr.m
are m mane. x.o,ori t'n. i.w...
the menace of foreign attack if we
ar tn h un pffoctive influencw in
the nromotion and maintenance of
! WAR MOST PROFITABLE
TO NORTHERN PACIFIC
The Day in Conyess
&EX.VTE.
Met at noon.
1 ,,Vonfert't' on army reorganization
Dill continued at work.
Resumed discussion of rural credits
bill.
Sharp exchanges on Erandcis' nomi
nation resulted from a charge by Sen
ior Ashurst that republicans were fil
oustering against confirmation.
IIOV8G.
M at U am.
Dlsf'usspJ agricultural appropria
tion bin including a "rider" embody
ing lh. bills for grain grading, federal
warehouses, for agricultural products
"nd new cotton futures law.
Adopted eonrrenc report on Mil
Passed by both houses to double the
number of cadets at West Point.
Paiwd senate bill limiting railway
employes' hours of labor.
lver cotton futures bill was Voted
into annual bill as amendment.
the peace of the world, the measure
of our Influence will certainly not be
in proportion to our weakness but In
proportion to our available strength."
After considering th various meth
ods tried in Kurope for maintaining
r,MC. Mr. Straus said the deduction
to be drawn from their failure makes
It clear that there must be an inter,
national reconstruction on an entirely
different basis than that which has
brought about th present cataclysm
of Kuropean civilization.
Mr. Straus said that all volunteer
methods devised for the maintenance
of peace would probably fall and
continued: "We must at least put
forth as much compelling force for
the preservation of peace as lias hith
erto been put forth for preparation
of war."
Instead of a general staff in each
nation preparing for war there
should he a general staff on the unit
ed nation preparing for peace, he
aid.
He this view
Was the ooinion nf nn r.i.ai.uh..i.ni....
malorltv tit tho rriuv. .....,t 1. laruclv sweiit aside in the war. "Its
the opinion which thousands of Irish i fabric," he said, "Is almost as ruined
soldiers have sealed with their blood I " 'be great cathedral at Ithelms. It
by dying in the cause of the lib-i's not. now an active working code,
ertv of Ireland and of the world. We must not concede one lot from the
"ISut anyhow, U was the opinion! principles of International law, in the
of Ireland, and surely I need noti Interest of humanity. We want,
arguo the principles, especially wilhifomrlhlng In the future more power
anybody who has professed himself ful than mere scraps of paper an
i home rulor, that the policy of. International court with police power
Ireland must be decided bv Ireland, capable 'of enforcing Its decrees.''
herself. Thai is the principle which j Professor Reeves declared It was
has been adopted by the lrJsh rac outside the hounds of possibility than
-eijnneit. jnn American submarine crew wouin
, vm.l '""iiiior Disloyalists. ever sink an enemy I.nsltani.i. lie
Millions of our people in the I c riticized the administ ration for an
United States and elsewhere, whose alleged change of front regarding
generous devotion helped us so large- antio,i merchantmen questions,
ly to win our victories for the moth- prf ,-url p, (jrlser, of Abcrlin
erlnnd of our race, have always uc- (Ohioi university, while declaring bW
vented it. However bounteous their sp ,rt of President Wll.ion in the
help, never have they denied Ireland's ...miroveriv with Germany, suggested;
right to choose her policy for herself. nm cnt international rules, re-
...-I le... ...op line ueen contested only ..rioiw nohmarlne should he ex
that 11 Is due to foreign prompting. It
is, ho says, ''small." Ho udds that
"stern measures are to be taken to
suppress It,"
The revolution Ihns far Is consid
ered an Imitation, though on a much
more extended scale, of Kurt Chnbro!
In Paris, which was held by political
rioters some fifteen years ugo, and
the tlols in Sydney afreet in London.
While It is declared not to have !h
support of Ihe people generally and
even Is not considered by some of the
authorities a rtulng, the situation cer-
iiud tar beyond
i- right ur wrong thlsi lln authority on admiralty law, assert-. tainly Is very serious 111
ion r on ed that International law had I). en the dimensions of a riot,
. -i.l.'H.llllllf. - .. ! .... .....
IMSKH'UICH IMIDIIII.
1ST M.M JOURNAl tPICTAl. CtAMS
St. Paul, Minn., April 28. Revenue
from carrying war munitions and
barbed wire for shipment to Vladi
vostok, Russia, has broken all pre
vious Northern Pacific railway rec
ords. The statement for March and fir
the nine months ended March 31.
shows March operating revenue as
l,470 a gain of Jl.6il9.093 over
MarcW, 1915. Net Income for March
totals $2,594,737. an increase of SO
per cent over the same month lant
year.
Rallwtay (operating revenue for
nine months ended March 31, 191,
was 156. 291,402. a gain over thl
previous nine months of 17,788,473.
Pressure on Single Men.
Cardiff, Wales. April 12. Notices
have been posted on the Vrdlff Coal
egchange that, in future no single man
who, being physically fit, has not at
tested his willingness to Jo'n the army
will permitted on the floor of the ex
change unless he can furnish a reas
on satisfactory t0 the commllUe ut
control of the exchange.
l '' ,! men who loony nave i,,,,,!,.,
i.i..... .. ..jlli.ti fibrillin!.'
ct ....... ...... I i- ju .a.i-'i i... .......
tried to make Ireland a cat's paw f
viri fiiaiiy. . .. . , l,,..,o ,1...
H niifrRteiI olasHiflciition C'f vk-
Ii-ph rhuurfutl unA .-..a,., u.. tk..i UflKPfl.
was 'it,- .si iV;,r". ,,'m'r I vessels carrying war munitions.
cause of the allle- ..., ... ih., ""Ib'ge. said Kngland could not bio. K
f New Yoik
cause of home rule
ItlamtM Germany.
"This attempted deadly blow at
home rule carried on through this
section Is made morn wicked, more
Insolent, by this fact that Germany
plotted it. Germany oruanl.ed: Oer-
sde Germany because of submarines;
The trouble lin gone on now for
twenty-four hours and bus completely
dislocated the life of Dublin. No
shops are open end 110 business is be
ing transacted. Street cars have
eease.i to 11111 and the gas supply has
been cut off. Use of Ihe telephone
betw.en the city and Ihe suburbs has
been forbidden by the military, and
the running of trains to and from
the country Is very irregular.
Vesterday (Monday) at mid-day,
tin, Sinn Kiln revolutionists wero as
sembled as if for one of their usual
parados. They were supposed to be
going out for un IOitHter Sunday
march, flume- of the ra.nk and file
even Imagined this wa,s their pur
pose. Posloffi'i'C Si Ucl.
About him of them, however, took
possession of tile general postoffice
in Suckvllle street, hirh t (lie time
whs attended by a usual smull holiday
staff of clerks. There the tint) men
remained nil day und night nod still
bold forth. Telegraphic and postal
communication imotar as II goes
through this, tlie chief pomffi.e in
Ireland, has censed
Thy raid was 'beyond th- power of
th. police to deal ulib. Small detach
ments of laiu-eis appeared on the
scene, but after two or three of their
horses had la-en shot anil two or
last stand might he Intelligible, but
at the outset of the disturbance they
cou Ui not guess Its puriose,
Wonran Leading I'lgurc.
Tin, Commas Marklevicx, the sister
of 1111 Irish baron, in a volunteer unl-i
form, was n prominent figure In thn
disturbance, she was one of the lend
ing sympathizers with 'Jame LurMu
In the 1918 street car strike and her
house wa raided In January by the
police, who ure ssld lo have svUed a
printing press and type with which al-
legi'd pro-Gorman literature was he',
imj printed. II, r 'husband la said, to
be a Polish nobleman.,
Occupy straii-gio Politlx.
In addition to ti:. Joseph's green,;
various corner . points-' covering 'he
entrance to the green also; .-,. oceu- j.
pled by thi Rinn Fniners. "'lir. flour-:
isheil rlflen from th wuuiuWj -0t1
nearby houses Several passing mo
tor cars and t s were commun
deered. The occupant :' !ae m-i!
chines were taken Insida the Krenn,,
apparently as hostages, and th, mt
were drawn up on the, roadwu'YiJ
barricade?. . ' . "
There has been nrueh rifle und fe
at nothing In ,
holiday-making have boon killed or
to SI. Vincent's hospital, on one side
of the SI. Ktcnhcn' frre,t.
Much Promiscuous Sliootlnjj,
ill 1110 f ... ...ur.iu 1 tnu, i(ri ilia
critial which forms the boundary ot
the city, tlie Sinn Kelners aelaied a cor- ;
uer public house. Here also holiday- ;
makers suffered from promiscuous
shooting. One platoon of Iho royal
Irish rifles succeeded In dislodging
and taking prisoner these HI mi Ueln-
ers. i
During Monday officers and men In '
khaki urn) also Isolated Individuals
were shut at in the streets. Some of ;
joeni were lep.uieo. 10 riiivr ori'o liiu-
ed or wounded.
No evening newspapers appeared In '
Dublin Monday and no morning pa
pers were published today (Tuesday).
Tlie Evening Mall office was occupied
by members of the Sinn rein yeeter- .
day. They still retain their poses- :
I slnn of the building. The military
have established themselves opposita ;
Iho Kvetilug Mali office.
Nothing Taken iu Ihittio.
The Royal College of Surgeone,
which faces St. Stephen's green, on .
the west, was seised by tho Sinn Itin
era and their flag flown from it, Thus
fur the revellers have captured noth
ing by fighting. There was nobody
fr resist them and they simply occu
pled unprotected buildings.
The authorities exproes the opinion
tUt.t t, .,.t,l.,A ....... .. ,1.. ,M
11t.1v .up vim.im.i ,ony mofc n v. . ,y v.
...... n-.w.. .1....... tu ..I..
at the dlsposai of the government ta
'loco tne eiuii'j inniui uauin wiui wunn.
Tin, svmpaihy of tlie people generally, I
they declare, is against the disturb
ers, but thus far the military authori
ties have not shown tnelr strength.
1 ney lire no. uouni, anxious 10 euu
the trouble with a minimum of blood- ;
shed and destruction of property.
It Is Impossible as yet to ascertain j
or even apprnxlinafH the number of
persons killed or Injured but thoro Is 1
no doubt, that the iq:grcgulH Is consid
erable, as the holiday' crowds were ,
large and the shooting' 'by the Sinn 1
Kelners was very wild und reckless. !
and mines and had. therefore, estah-I three of them wounded, they tith
lished the "unheard of add illegulled I drew. Since then the Sinn Kelners
present blockade." He added that for jn the postoffi have been left alone
MUST ACTUAL IlKPORT
I1V A.s.soCl.Tia PRLS!
London, April -J8 (10.45 a. m.)
Thu Associated Press dispatch I'ent
from Dublin Tuesday alteninon was
the first detailed eye witness account
of the disorders in Dublin to be re
ceived In London. The resident ofl
soclal.rd Press correspondent In Iub
lin forwurded tho mesanee by courier
to Kingston, seven miles southeast of
Dublin, whence it came to London by
mull. The message bore the stump of
the postal censor and apparently was
unexpiirgatcd.
The Dublin view of the uprising at
the end of the first dsy seemingly
corroborated the report that Iho force
which began tlie disorder was not a
large- one.
many paid for It. So far as Germany's (observed that no belligerent hud Ihe
share
mn InvaMion
selfish
vasion
Vmni'il Lake GurthnN.
l'aiiiirnu, April 15.---The widening
inn vearn Knuland had laid down nil- fiind thev bine hoisted Ihe flag of the I of th- canal ut a point north of Gold
val law to the world. Irii-h repii'dle over the building. flf'I. incident to the dredging of tho
Prof. Theodore P. Ion, of I'oston. Shops Are IsH,l. 1 soil tnl mm from tue nuisiue into in
Various coiners In Suckvllle treet tltaniel In lialllurit cut, nas rormeo a
in it Is oo'neerned it 'is a tier-1 right to complain If a blockade Is ef- have been occupied by the Stun Fein-(lake that bus been given the official
nvasion of Ireland' as brutal. tut fecTlve or not ers and barricades of barbed wire designation of Luke Goethals. The
as cynical as Germany's in-' ail. W.I,. Rodger. Unite, State erected In the thoroughfare. In thlr- water is about a fourth of a mlbi lonff
'of Uelglum. Rlood has beonlnavy, told the society that German street, there bus been a great deal of and Sh feet w ide.
shed, and If Ireland has not been re
duced to the same horrors of Uelglum
with her starving people, her ma
sacred priests and her violated con
vents, it is not the fuult of Germany.
"And th final aggregation of this
movement Is this:
"The misguided, lusafla young- men
submarines hud succeeded In chal
lenging the supremacy of the flrltlsh
navy,
Charles H. Rinnd, of New York,
asked whether the situation facing
Germuny hud not Justified the iwe of
submarine! In the LusltHnln and Sus
sex cases.
looting of shops and smashing of
windows.
In St. Stephen's green, a detach
ment of the Sinn Peiner entered the
green, which Is surrounded by a high
railing, end loi ked theineslves In and
begun digging trenches. The anthor
iileg cytstdeied that this move as a
Chilli Salaried Men.
Peking, March s.-All government
eiipluye whose salary exceeds tlOO
Mexican, a month, are to be required
to eubscrlbe a certain percentage of
their pay to the doinestie loan for thia
year. . x
