PUBLIC
AN
INDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
Ziyi
PHOENIX, ARIZOSnr, TURDAY MORNING, APRIL 29, 1916
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
14 PAGES
14 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 345
THE
RE
AS
Finn bill
LIKELY TD Ft
N LAST DITCH
Said to Be (Yrtain That the
Jones Senate Measure
Will Not Be Accepted by
the House in Its Present
Form , .
Detailed Story Of Irish Rising
Told Twenty -Four Hoars Later
Brought To London By Mail
It Was Then Believed to Be
Nothing More Thaii a I
Riot on An Extensive
Si-ale; It Has Not Since .j
Diminished
REVOLT A BLOVU
ALL CONFEREES
AT THE BBRBEB
SESS10HT0DAY
THAT IS CONCEDED
BY ADVOCATES
Conferees on the Army In
rease Bill Are Having
Trouble With the More
I ni tort ant Amendments
Made bv the Senate
AT II RULE
Republican A. P- Leased Wire j
DUBLIN, Tuesday, April 25 (via i
London, April 2S) 10:15 p. m. Dub- j
Hi) now has been held up for twenty- ;
four hours by a combination of mem- j
hers of the Sinn Kein society and fol
lowers o? JameR Larkin. head of the !
transport workers union and widely j
SA!S
Ml
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
IaiNWiN, April 28 John Red-
i u.M.ioi' ,,f the Irish national-
known as a strike leader. i ' ;,. ,,,
There has been the same violence in IhU in the house of c mmon, tonlt
the city as marked the bis strike in j Rave the Associated Press the fol
1913 .which was headed bV Larkin, but! ' statement concerning the up
suor.'.emented by the use of an armed : "ing in Uuhlin
force with military pretensions and; "My tint eel.ng. of course on
,1,0 seizure of strategic points designed , e"ng of tins insane movemen ,
. .L ,,...,... ....., was one of horror, discouragement.
lO gle Hie U1SUI1 UillllC Uir dn'"1 '1 . . , . m.,if
j anil amiosi ucnimh. t mj.i,
' whether Ireland, as so often before in
a revolution.
Lord Lieutenant of Northcliff In a
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON'. April 28.-The 1 " , her tr.1(?ic history, was to dash the
democratic and republican leaders of proclamation today calls the move- ( - hpr was the
the house decided today to bring the "lent "insurrectionary and, declraes P 7 of ,ler
tignt over the Philippine independence that it is due to foreign prompting, n. y
..... . It u h. Givu "akmwu'hnl amnll ' He l''I"r ft
bill to a head Monday. They ngreea - , - .1H victories of the last few years
that a special rule should be submit-p"" ".at sl"rn measures are unu )lpr ,jil(.k
ted then providing that the measure ,aK'n to suppress It. . ,,n . the verge of her final recoenl
now in such a parliamentary status1 1 '""""' ......-.. , . , H free nation illto iui1,her
that consideration otherwise would be "nation, inougn on a ""-.,. ,.,, f slaVery incalculable
Impossible for many weeks be takn
up for debate and amended and finally-
voted on before adjournment.
Even the champions of the measuro
concede that there is little hope of '
tended scale of the riot at Fort Cha-
bro' In Paris, which was held by po
litical rioters some fifteen years ago.
and the riots in SyYJney street in Lon-
lon. While it is declared not to have I
long' night of slavery
suffering and a weary and uncer
tain struggling.
For, look at the Irish position to
day. In the short space of forty
years Ireland has by a constitutional
(ieneral Obrejron Evidently
Clothed -With Plenary
Power to Enter into Any
Arrangement That. May
Be Agreed Upon
'ARLY WITH DRAW EL
WILL NOT HE PRESSED
Mr. Gerard Guest Of Kaiser
Why He Had Not Been Told
Meeting Believed Good Sign
GERMAN PAPEBS
CEASE CUT
1 IIULIO
It is Expected That the
Business of the Confer
ence to Be Held at Juarez
Will Be Concluded by
Mondav
it passing in the form it came from' lIKrt of the people generally i v(,ment ma(le an almost u,,rokpn
the senate as it was probably re
sulted to be by president WllsonJ
p'nino of thx? leaders think its oppon
ents even may defeat the special ml,
thus preventing it from coming up at
nil in the near future.
and even :s not considered by some
The Army Increase Bill
WASHINGTON, April 28. Ton
ferees on the army reorganization bi'l
reached definite agreements today on
many minor differences between the
house and senate bills, but made no
progress on the thiee big points at
issue the size of the regular armv
...r ,...u,.. ........ Snn Ft.in revolutionists were assem-
l,u.,-i.i..,.-.,. ...t.uiTT I'loin. ki if f..r , nr fhoir nu.inl i.n.
.... ......
rades. They were supposed to be go
of the authorities a rising, the situa-
Hon certainly is virtually serious and
far beyond the dimensions of a riot.
The trouble has gone on now for
twenty-four hours and has completely
dislocated the life of Dublin. No shops
ar? open and no business is being
transacted. Street cars have ceased to
run and the gas supply has been cut
ff. The ue of the telephone between
the city and the suburbs has been for
bidden by the military and the run
ning of tiains to and from the coun-
'ly triumphant march from pauperism
, try is very irregular.
Yesterday (Monday) at mid-day, the
REWARDS FOR HEROES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PITTSBURG. Pa.. April 28. The
Carnegie Hero Fund Commission, at
VM Spring meeting here today recog
nized fifty-two nets of heroism in var
ious parts of the country. In ten cased
Mlver medals were awarded, and in
firty-two cases bronze medals. Nine
teen of the heroes lost their liven, and
to the dependents of ten of these, pen
nioiB aggregating $6,009 a ear were
printed: and to the dejiendents of
eight of the others who lost their
lives, dims totalling $6,000. to be ap
ing out for an Easter Monday march.
Some of the rank and file even imag
ined this was their purpose.
About 600 of them, however, took
possession it the general postoffice in
Kackville street which at the time was
attended bv the usual small staff of
and slavery to prosperity and free
dom. She has won back the pos
session of Irish lands, she has stayed
emigration, she has at last begun
an era of national prosperity. Fin
ally, she has succeeded in placing on
the statute books the greatest charter
if freedom ever offered her since
the day of Grattan. Is all this to be
lost?
"When war came, she made a
choice which was inevitable if she
was to tie true to all the principles
which she has held through all her
history and which she had just so
completely vindicated on her own
soil, namely the rights of small na
tions, sacred principles of nationality
liberty and democracy.
"Moreover, the nations for which
through all her history she had felt
the sympathy that comes irora com
mon principles and common aspira
tions were trampled, as she in her
time, had been trampled, under the
Telegraphic and postal communication
insofar as it goes through this, the
chief postoffice in Ireland, has ceased.
The raid was beyond the power of
thr police to deal with. Small detach -mMita
f,f Ijinppro nrtnpnred on the
Hied, subject to the direction of the ., ,. r thrM t. thclp
clerks. There the Mio men remained irn h of Hrrogant force.
ill duy and night and still hold rortn. i - hat has Ireland's felt in the past
that I'oland, Alsace, Belgium and
cjomniission, in various Wavs, were
Krar.ted. In addition to these money
grpnts. in threo cases sums aggregat
ing J6.000 were appropriated for edu
cational purposes, payments to be paid
s needed and approved; and in twenty-four
capes awards aggregating $20,
.00 were made for other worthy pur
poses. Payments In these caf.es will
not be made until the beneficiaries'
plans for the use of the awards have
been approved by the commission.
rorses had lieen shot and two or three
of the men wounded, they withdrew.
Since then the Sinn Feiners In the
poptoffice have been left alone and
(Continued on Page Three)
Serbia have not suffered at the
hands of Germany? and I may add
also that portion of the soil of France
our old friend and ally, which is in
the hands of Germany?
What has been the record of Ger
many but the suppression of na
tionality of freedom and of Jan
guage in short, the suppression of
all things for which, centuries Ire
(Continued on Page Two)
GOVERNMENT'S WAGE t
SCALE REJECTED
EXPERTS DM INTERNATIONAL LAW
DIIEDAST0SU1A1E WARFARE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SEWARD, Alaska, AprH 28 Tho
Anchorage Ibor union rejected today
the wage scale offered by the federal
nrbitration board endeavoring to set
tle the utilke among workmen on the
Kosernment's railroad in Alaska. The
strike began February 12. The com
mittee offered: For common labor.
'3 3-8 cents an hour or $3.50 a day of
right hours; for longshoremen, 56 1-4
rents ar hour, or $4.50 a day; for car
penters, marchinists and other skilled
workmen, 70 cents an hour.
According to railroad officials the
American workmen at Anchorage were
satisfied with the scale but the forelgr
clement comprising a majority of the
rnmmon laborers dominated the meet
ings of the union yesterday and stood
Republican A. P. Leased Wire , of the Indiana University said the use
WASHINGTON, April 28. Subma- should he mainly or substantially for
rine warfare upon commerce was de- defensive purposes and be mainly con
nounced by an array of prominent fined to home waters.
jurists today before the American So-' Everett V. Wheeler of New York, an
ciety on International Law. Conclud- authority on admiralty law. asserted
jng a two day program of addresses that international law had been large
on vjuestlons relating to the European y swept asldo In the war. "Its fab
war, most of the speakers earnestly ric," he said, "13 almost as ruined as
favored restricting the use of the sub- the great cathedral at Rheims. It is
marine and other new war agencies, not now an active working code. We
to establish legal bounds and tho must not concede one jot from the
modification of the International code principle of international law In the
in their favor. i Interest of humanity. We want eojne-
Piof. Jesse S. Reeves, of the Uni-' thing in the future more powerful
versity of Michigan, criticized the than a scrap of paper."
American position regarding the mer-' Prof. Reeves declared it was-outside
chant marine. ! the bounds of possibility that an
Admitting that submarines and American submarine would ever sink
hi: for a minimum of fifty cents an mines have a legitimate use in mod- an enemy Lusitania. He criticized
iioiir for common labor. ern warfare, Prof. Amos 8. Horsey, the administration for an alleged
, cl ant'o of front regarding the armed
j merchantman question.
Prof. Carl P. Gelser, of Oberlin
I Ohio 1'niversily, while declaring his
! support of President Wilson in the
ontroversy with Germany, suggested
hat the ancient International- rule
I restricting submarines should be ex
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KL PASO, Tex., April 28. On the
eve of the Obregon-Scott-Funston
conference tomorrow over the disposi
tion of United Slates troops in Mex
ico, the feeling grew in Kl Paso to
night that tentative American occu
pation of part of Chihuahua, pending
the eradication of Villa bands ty the
de fa to government, would certainly
result from the negotiations. Th"
American representatives came to El
I'aso this evening, tight-mouthed re-
garding their plans of action and their
instructions from the Washington
government. All opinions regarding
the outcome of the deliberations was
based, therefore, on the attitude of
the Carranza officials arriving with
General Obregon.
From an authoritative source it was
learned that the Mexican minister of
war had signalized his intention to
meet General Scott and General Fun-
tan "half way" In the coming nego-iations.
It was pointed out In other quar-
ers that this might mean that Gen
eral Obregon would give his consent
the further presence of General
Pershing's columns on Mexican Soli.
rrovlded tho chase of the Villistas
was ' relinquished to the Carranzistas.
and provided withdrawal was ar
ranged to follow the receipt of as-1
surances from the de facto govern
ment that the liandit groups had been
wiped out. It was asserted by Mex-i'-an
cfficials that with the large cotn
imnAm at his disrftsl, Oeneral Obre
gon could vanquish the already scat
tered bandits in a short time, not
more than a very few months. They
argued that on the completion of this
tssk, the Americans could conclude
that their mission in Mexico was suc
cessfully en led and Could retire north-
wurd.
The opinion was general that if the
I'nited States insisted on n. contin
uance of the new troop dispositions
recently ordered by General Funston,
nd now being carried into effect.
the minister of war could not well
refuse to grant the proposal, as to do
;w would be to endanger the relations
between the American and Mexican
governments.
Another circumstance influencin
speculation regarding the outcome -i
the conference was the confidence of
the Mexican officials that it would
reich a siioedy conclusion.
"We do not exect any difficulties
in reaching an agreement," said one
of them. "The whole business shoul 1
be concluded in time for us to return
on Monday."
This beliof that General Obregon
would be able to give the conference
unexpected expedition caused a report
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
UKKLIN. April 28. With James W.
Gerard on bis way to the German army
headquarters and the leading German
statesmen already there, the day
passed quietly in Berlin, where no new
dovelopmentoceurred, with regard to
the American note to Germany con
cerning Germany's method of subma
rine warfare.
The newspapers today refrained from
any comment on the latest develop
ments, merely mentioning Ambassador
Gerard's departure. The general situa
tion was not referred to by the news
papers except the Tages Zeitung, which
printed its uual article laying empha
sis on the statement that the under
water boat is a necessity in Germany's
warfare against Great Britain.
A Berlin dispatch to the Cologne Gaz
ette again calls atteution to what it
It is Supposed That, the Em
peror Desired to Com
nmnicate Through Him
to the President His Views
on the Problem
HORNET'S NEST
ISARMISEDBY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 28 Ambassa
dor Gerard at Berlin, in advising the
state department today that he had
lieen invited to confer with Emperor
William at army headquarters said he
had not been informed of the purpose
of the conference. In fact, secretary
Lansing said, when announcing the
receipt of Mr. Gerard's dispatch, no ex
planation of any kind had accompanied
the invitation.
The belief prevails here, however,
that the emperor desires to discuss
the general submarine situation with
Mr. Gerard and possibly explain in de
tail his views for the benefit of Pres
ident ' Wilson. Diplomats, especially
those attached to the Teutonic embas
sies, seemed to regard the conference
between the emperor and the Ameri
can ambassador as holding a certain
degree of hopefulness.
The attack by a submarine on the
British merchantman "Industry" re
ported today and the placing of the
crew in open boats 120 miles from
shore, created an unfavorable impres-
BY H.ASHUHST
His Wild Charge That the
Nomination of Louis D.
Brandeis Was Being Held
Up by a Republican Filibuster
terms the hopes of Germany's enemies Bi(m on offil.ials, although there were
to bring about a breach in German
American relations. This disimtch says
tlie press of the entente powers is seek
ing to hammer the conviction into the
whole world that the conditions as laid
down by the American government will
not be acceptable to Germany and that
an effort is being made to discredit the
German answer in advance, no matter
what it may be.
The purpose of these efforts is clear,
says the dispatch. "England and
France are longing for German
American complications."
COLORADO WATER USERS
no Americans on board and therefore
the United States is not directlyi con
cerned. Germany has admitted that it
is only proper to place passengers and
crews of attacked vessels in open boats
when they are near shore and the
weather is good.
SENATOR REBUKED
BY DEMOCRATS
They Admitted That They
Were Cause of the Delay;
Committee Will Probably
Present Unfavorable Re
port on Nomination
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 28. A stormy
debate over the nomination of Louis
D. Brandis for the supreme court
broke in the senate late today and
before it was over predictions were
made by two members of the judi
ciary committee one of them a dem
ocrat, that an unfavorable report on
the appointment would follow when
the committee reached a vote.
Discussion was precipitated when
Senator Sutherland, a republican
member of the committee read to
the senate an interview published
yesterday quoting Senator Ashurst
as charging that the republican mem
bers of the judiciary committee were
filibustering in order to delay a vote
Optimism regarding the ultimate0" the nomination until after the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FORT MORGAN. Colo., April 2S.
Water users scattered throughout
northeastern Colorado met here today
and perfected a preliminary organiza
tion, the purpose of which is to agree
upon concerted action respecting the
suit brought by Western Nebraska
farmers for the distribution of the wa
ter flowing east from the South Platte
The election of officers and other de
tails are to be completed at a meeting
here Friday after the plan has been
submitted for ratification to the ir
rigation companies involved.
About fifty representative water
users were present today and con
ferrd with Fred Farrar. attorney gen
eral and other officials.
o
COTTON WORKERS WAGES
outcome of the situation was apparent I
in government circles. j
Because of the visit of Mr. Gerard
to the emperor, officials seemed in
clined to believe that it would be im
possible for Germany to make reply
to the American note before early next
veek.
o
CONFESSION OF MURDER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. April 28. Edgar Hettin
ger, IS years old, confessed today to the
murder of Mrs. Agnes Middleton. 41
years old, according to the police. Het
tinger is alleged to have admitted that
no killed the woman the night of April
4, in her flat, first striking her on the
head with a hammer and then slash
ing her threat -with a razor. "Robbery
wr.s the motive.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PROVIDENCE, P.. I., April 28. An
advance of ten iierctnt in the wages of
6.0DO operatives in cotton mills con
trolled by B. IT. and P. Knight, in this
stele, wfif announced today.
BETHLEHEM STEEL'S PAY ROLL
SOUTH BETHLEHEM, April 28.
The Bethlehem Steel company today
announced a voluntary increase of ten
per cent In the wages of its 24,000 em
ployes. This is the third ten per cent
advance given the men in the last ten
months and will add $170,000 to the
national political conventions.
Senator Ashurst stood steadfastly
by the quoted statement during the
heated argument that followed until
assured by fellow democrats on the
committee that there was no such
filibuster. He withdrew the charge
at the suggestion of Senator Bran
degee after he had denounced execu
tive sessions and charged that the
republicans were angered over the
nomination of Mr. Brandeis because
he was a champion of the masses.
Tonight it generally was believed
that the debate would serve to bring
the committee to a vote on the
nomination within a few days. Al
though senators who took part in the
discussion were members of the com
mittee. Senator Sutherland took Senator
Ashurst to task both for revealing
to newspaper men what has taken
place in the judiciary committee ahd
for saying that the republican mem
bers were filibustering.
.Newspaper" men did ask me if I
thought the republican members were
filibustering against the confirmation
and I said I did," declared the Arizona
monthly payroll of the company. It j senator. I said it and I would like
was also announced that the company ' to se tne color of the hair of the
would spend $18,000,000 on improve- man who can imprison my thoughts."
ments at the local plant during the year Senator Sutherland replied that if
and that an aggregate of about $38.- Senator Ashurst had been as faith
000,000 had been appropriated for ex-!f' in attending the committee meet-
tensions and improvements to the
various plants of the corporation.
THROWING TROOPS ACROSS LINE
IN ANTICIPATION Of CONFERENCE
to Fpread that the minister of war Columbus since the the initial com-
Republlcan A. P. Leased Wire were being concentrated near Guer
COLUMBUS, N. M., April 28. The
largest force of troops which has left
Artillery and Aeroplanes
Figured Chief ly in the War;,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
'"he situation in Dublin, where the
members of the Sinn Fein pocieiy
undertook a raid against the govern
ment lust Monday, continues perlo'Js
according to last 'reports. Advices
from Belfast ore to the effect thai
Liberty hall, the lif-Sclquarters of the
Sinn Fein foclety Was captured by the
military after it had been shelled oy
a gunboat.
Only acrlsl and artillery activities
marked the progress of the war on
lh F.uropean fields but the Prills.!
Lave met vUI reverse both In Bgypt
ond in MeroHtamia.
Ill the ba'tle near Quntia, according
to reports from Constantinople, a
British force of four cavalry nqua 1
rons has been annihilated by the
Turks who captured 300 prisoners,
liesldes inflicting heavy losses.
London announces hat an attempt
to relieve the force of General Town
send lit Kut-F.l-Amara failed when .i
emel loaded with supplies grounded
In the Tigris river frftir mlleg east of
Kut-Fl-Amara.
Constantinople claims that a British
j tended.
aeroplane squadron raided Qualia "Can you expect a nation, fightins
after the British defeat and threw for its very existence to have tha
bombs on a hospital. submarine and not use it ? He asked.
He suggested a classification of ves
The Turks attacked from an aero- nrgota ftm, pro,llbHing wo-
, .c a.. . wain,,,, m r.iKan- , . ,,,,,,,. fl.nm tr!1velinir on
tare, end the docks of Port Said. They
also dropped bombs on the entente
aviation grounds on Imbros island. I
Theie ha-i been some infantry ac
tivity along tbe front in France heid
by the llrilish forces, but alor.g the
rest of th front the artillery an i
aerial arnvi have been the means of
attack by 'he oppoj-ing forces. The
vessels carrying war munitions,
i Frof. Guthrie of New York College
said England is not blockading Ger-
many because of submarine and
; mines and had, therefore established
I the "unbeTrd of illegalized present
blockade.'
He added that for 100
! years RnKland had laid down tho
crtillery bombardment has been vin-i
lent both east and west of the Meuse'
in the Verdun region.
I naval law' to the world.
Prof. Theodore P. Ion of Boston,
asserted that no" belligerent had the
' rlfrhr In .'r.tvmlnln If n l.lopknde is
effective or not.
.. Captain W. L. Rodgers. U. S. N.,
had l.een given full power to reach a
decision in behalf of his government.
Gossip regarding the coming meet
ing was Interrupted this afternoon by
reports from the American expedi
tion's front that large forces of Car
ranza troops were being moved inlo
the Guerrero district. On top of this
came information from Columbus, .toe
American baso station, that a large
force of United States infantry lri.l
been moved south along the American
line of communication and that an
imimrtant detachment of cavalry had
been moved westward to Gibson's
Line ranch In order that it might
cruss into Y.cxico tomorrow morning.
Speculation regarding the meaning
of these movements proved futile.
Neither the Mexican nor American
military- authorities would discuss
them, except to say that they repre
sented the ordinary precautloary steos
of forces under arms. The entrance
of additional Carranza forces into th?
Guerrero district was partly explained
as designed to prevent any combina
tion -of Villistas and other factions
against the American troops.
EI Paso and Juarez raw more ex
citement today than they have had
since General Scott came to the bor
der in August, 1915, to hold his now
famous conference with Villa on the
international bridge. General Obrc
con's special train arrived from Chi
huahua 1ly not long after eight
o'clock this morning having on board
also Governor Ignacio Enriquez, of
tne state of Chihuahua. Shortly af
terwards, the special train of Gen
eral Jacinto Ttevino of Torreon, mil
itary commander of the northeast dis
trict of Mexico, rolled in. Accompany
ing General Trevino was General
Samuel S. Santos. Presidente Jose De
Luz Herrera of Parral and a number
of otber celebrities.
General Gaira, commander r.fths
Juarez garrison
mand crossed the border six weeks
ago is encamped tonight on the
frontier, fifteen miles west of here.
The troops, consisting of more than
regiment of cavalry, are prepar
ings as the republicans and the
other democratic senators he would
not make such a remark and Senator
Clarke of Wyoming also said the
interview stated far from the truth.
"I am not one of those senators
who pretend to deliberate after their
minds are made up," continued Sen
ator Ashurst. M can well imagine
the consternation of republican sena
tors when the nomination of Mr.
Brandeis came to this senate. Had
he been a man who spent his life
in steering corporations around the
law, they would have been fighting;
for his confirmation but having
rero.
The ostensible nurnose of this
government was given as the pre-islent his life in "Shting for the
vention of the combination of ad- ul ,a,,u- casuistry is re
herents of the several Mexican fac
tions in the section against the
sorted to."
He added that .the desperation of
Americans. Military authorities here the republicans was shown by the
however, seemed safisfii thnt oBn. ract lnat uy nw were reaching out
ing to cross the line into Mexico at eral Pershing's command is amnlvlt0 take a man off the supreme court
daybreak tomorrow.
The soldiers left Columbus upon
orders of General J. J. Pershing ex
peditionary commander, and it was
stated at military headquurters here
tonight that no reasons had been out
lined. Persons in constant touch with
the border situation offered various
solutions, one belief expressed was i
that General Pershing feels that his
shortened line of communication
which extends from Columbus to
San Antonio, a distance of about 325
miles is in need of further strength
ening. Another was that the ex
peditionary commander fears that one
of the stipulations In the con
ference between Generals Scott, Fun
ston and Obregon, will lie that no
more American troops shall 'cross the
boundary and is anticipating such an
agreement by bringing his command
to a strength that will enable ft to
cope with any emergency.
It ' was reported here that Major
Generals Scott and Funston will come
to Columbus during one of the in
tervals or the conference. It was
pointed out that it is probable that
able to care for itself in even theiand.to urag: mm lnt0 the mlre of
remotest possibly which might be 1 po"uca a" endeavor to defeat
developed. (Continued on Page Two)
. . .
The Program as Outlined
For the American Conferees
Republican A. P. Leased Wire '
American officers have been in
structed to attempt to work, out in
detail military plans for the cooper
ation of the Mexican and American
troop3 in the dispersing of bandit
bands including a uiviKion of north
ern Mexico into spheres of activity
for the two forces, it became known
here tonight.
Generally speaking, the aim of
Generals Scott an Funstan at the
Juarez conference will be to secure
the consent of General Obregon to
the employment of the American
troops in the: territory immediately
the departmental commander and solUh o thp border' and to tne or
chief of staff may desire to make an
inspection of the expeditionary base.
Active preparations for continuing
the expedition continued here today,
aeroplane and a device calculated
to equip motors for railway travel,
being tested and supplies being dis
patched to the troops in the field.
Plans were being made also to equip
a squadron of motorcycles with ma
chine guns. If these prove practic
able It was said they will be used
when speedy reinforcements are
man stations and the Germans have
retaliated by attacks in the Verdun
, , ! marines had succeeded in challeng-
German aeroplanes have dropped , , (ne BllirMnllCv of the nr,usn
bombs on the Russian hntfleuh -
... ' I Charles R. Brand of New York, ii .imn --.ai-cia.) Some apprehension was aroused
, ' 4. ' . , C asked whether' the situation facing' n v..nu. ... r.i raso, met tne here today by press reports from the
, I"', Vu"' I alHO,have at- I Germany had not justified the use of s"ecial trali'1s' Ce-m! Gavira was , front that four train loads of Car-
tacked the Russian wu;-eh.mscsjit tlhn1flrln, ,n the Lusitr,nla am) Sus- "cfom ''an M hia and by a ranza soldiers, who previously had
Withdrawal from the district
canization of . Mexican forces along
different lines in order that all of
northern Mexico may be scoured
thoroughly for Villa and other out
laws. '
General Obregon will be told that
the United States is not yet satisfied
that American border towns will be
froe from raids similar to that on
Columbus if the American troops are
withdrawn. He will be assured, how
ever, that the troops will be with
drawn just as soon as there are reas
onable grounds for such a belief. He
will be told that the sooner the Mex
ican troops give complete cooperation
the sooner the troops will accomplish
this object.
The Mexican question, including the
instructions to General Scott and
Funston were gone over fully at to
day's cabinet meeting, the first held
since it was determined to send Goa.
Scott to the border to see General
Obregon.
Press reports that General Obregon
intended to urge the immediate with
drawal of the American forces from
Mexican territory brought no com
ment from officials acquainted with,
the instructions to General Scott.
Whatever the Mexican general has to
say on this subject will be reported
promptly by General Scott for the in
formation of the state department.
Secretary Baker has consistently re
plied to inquiries that all questions
of policy were under Secretary Lan
sing's Jurisdiction, the war department
and its offices having to do only with
military questions directly connected
with the protection of the border and
the pursuit of Villa.
Officials here have noted the state
ment in border dispatches that Gen
eral obregon would assert that 40,000
Carranza troops now were equipped in '
policing tlie territory south of the
border, thus insuring protection to
American border towns from Mexican
raiders. It is generally understood,
however, that this will not be regard
ed as the convincing demonstrator!
desired by the Washington govvn
ment. ,
(Continued on Page Two) j sex cases. s (Continued on Page Two) tieen
