'
1
HEW TO THE MNE; LET THE CHIPS FAIX WHERE THEY MAY
VoL XXI.
GHIGAGO, APRIL, 29, 1916
N. 32
Col.
Frank 0. Lowden, Republican Candidate for the Nomi
nation for Governor of Illinois, Who Seems to Be Far in
the Lead of All of His Competitors, Will Not Mix Up in
the Bitter Three Cornered Factional Fight in .Cook
County
HON. ANDEEW BUSSEL STATE TBEASUEEB OF ILLINOIS HAS
LAUNCHED HIS BOOM FOE THE NOMINATION FOB GOVEBNOB
AND IT IS SAID THAT GEOBGE M. BEYNOLDS, PBESIDENT OF THE
. CONTINENTAL-OOMMEBOIAIi NATIONAL BANK J. E. OTIS AND
MANY OF THE OTHER LEADING BANKEBS IN THIS OTTY 'AND
THROUGHOUT THE STATE WILL ANTE IN FOUB OB FIVE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO t-'iiwi'HMtt HIS CANDIDACY.
COL. FBANK L. SMITH THE CHIEF BANKER OF DWIGHT, ILL., STATU
SENATOB LOGAN HAY, THE MILLIONAIRE BANKER AND BEAL
ESTATE OWNER OF SPBINGFIELD, ILL, MAY ALSO ENTEB THE
BACE FOB THE NOMINATION FOB GOVEBNOB AND IF HE DOBS
THERE WILL BE A GBEAT DEAL OF WASHING OF DIRTY LINEN
AMONG THE HIGH PEXESTS OF THE GBAND OLD PARTY THROUGH
OUT ILLINOIS.
FOE HON. CHARLES S. DENEEN CLAIMS THAT HE WILL BIP THE LID
BIGHT OFF THE TOP AND TUBN THE ELEOTBIC LIGHT ON THE
PAST ACTIONS OB CBOOKED TBANSACTIONS OF SOME OF THOSE
WHO ABE OCCUPYING EXALTED POSITIONS IN THE BANKS OF
THE BEPUBLIOAN PABTY IN THIS STATE.
THE DEMOCBATS HAVE NOMINATED TTTRTR .CANDIDATES FOX
JUDGES OF THE SUPERIOR COUBT TO BE VOTED FOB AT THB
JUDICIAL ELECTION THE FIBST PABT OF JUNE.
. Col. Frank O. Lowden who. seems to.
be at the present time far in the lead
over all of his rivals or competitors
for the Bepnblican nomination for
Governor of Illinois, stated in his offi
cial announcement which appeared in
these columns two weeks ago that he
would not mix tip nor join in any of
the bitter factional fights now going
on within the ranks of the Bepubli
can party; that he will not play any
favorites in the three cornered rough
and tumble fight in Cook County, and
Hon. W. H. Stead and Mr. Joseph
C. Mason who are the political man
agers for Col. Lowden with headquar
ters in the Lumber Exchange Building,
this city, state that no kind of political
deal was made nor combination formed
at the late Peoria convention which
will change the attitude of Col. Low
den one particle in that respect; that
he is looking for votes at the Septem
ber primaries and not bitter factional
fights."
lion. Andrew Bussel, State Treas
urer of Illinois who is one of the lead
ing bankers of Jacksonville, this state,
has launched his boom for the Bepnb
lican nomination for Governor and he
will wage the greatest or the strongest
political fight of his life in order to
run in ahead of his powerful rivals
ami it is said that Mr. George M. Bey
nolils, President of the Continental
Commercial National Bank, this city,
T. E. Otis and many of the other lead
ing bankers in all parts of this state
will chuck or anto in four or five hun
dred thousand dollars into one large
jack pot for the purpose of aiding him
in. Ms fight for nomination for Gover
nor of Illinois.-
Col. Frank L. Smith, the biggest
banker of Dwight, Illinois, has been
in the running for the nomination for
Governor for the past year and he and
his friends look upon him as a winner.
State Senator Logan Hay, the million
aire banker and real estate owner of
Springfield, Illinois, expects to be
ready to enter the race within a short
time and if he does the chances are
that there will be a large washing of
very dirty political linen among the
high priests of the Grand Old Party
.throughout the state of Illinois.
Everything seems to indicate that
mighty hot times are ahead for the
present leaders of the Bepublican par
ty in this state for the Hon. Charles
S. Deneen has lately proclaimed it
aloud from the house tops that he will
rip the lid right off the top and turn
the electric lights on some of the dis
honest or crooked transactions of somo
of those who are now occupying ex
alted positions in the ranks of the
Bepublican party in -the state.
The Democratic Judicial convention
held forth at the Sherman House last
Monday and without one dissenting
vote or voice nominated the following
Judicial ticket to be voted for at the
June Judicial election.
Judge William E. Dever, Judge
Charles A. McDonald, Judge William
Fennimoro Cooper, Judge Martin M.
Gridley, Judge Bichard E. Burke,
Municipal Court Judge John J. Sulli
van and Joseph B. David, to succeed
Judge Henry V. Freeman, resigned.
THE KNIGHT TEMPLABS GBAND
STBEET PARADE AND J3ASTER
SERMON AT QUINN CHAPEL.
Sunday afternoon, the Knights Tern
plars, gave their annual grand street
parade and listened to their annual
Easter sermon at Quinn Chapel, which
was very eloquently preached by Bev.
J. C. Anderson.
Sir F. B. Cranshaw, was the grand
marshal of the parade. The parade
wended its way north in State street
from Masonic Hall, 40th and State
streets, to 38th street, east on 38th
street to Wabash avenue and north on
Wabash to Quinn Chapel.
The parade Was composed of four
commanderys, consisting of St. George,
St. Godfry, Hugh De Payne and Corin
thian. Five hundred Knight Templars
were in the line of march with two
brass bands and with their bright uni
forms, white plumes and gloves and
other finery they dazzled the eyes of
the public
Charles E. Morrison, . special mes
senger to Mayor William Halo Thomp
son, who is known as Sir Knighr Mor
rison, was one of the privates in the
ranks of the parade.
The church was beautifully decorated
for the occasion and the singing was
simply fine. Sir Knight Butler of New
York City, delivered a short address,
at the conclusion of which he was pre
sented with a large bunch of Ameri
can Beauty Boses. Sir Butler was
given a dinner by Mr. W. B. Dodge at
his residence, 3160 Federal street, Mon
day evening.
'Va
HON. DIXON C. WILLIAMS.
THE AMATEUB MI N STEEL
CLUB SHOW AND DANCE FOB
THE BENEFIT OF THE OLD
FOLKS HOME WAS A GBAND
SUCCESS BETWEEN TWO
AND THBEE THOUSAND PEO
PLE AT TEN TED IT.
President of the Nipple Manufacturing Company, an up-to-date and thorough
business man the new or the next Postmaster of Chicago.
The Ever Witty and Comical Joe
Shoecraft Cracked Several Jokes
at the Expense of Julius F.
Taylor.
THE APPEAL SAINT PAUL, MIN
NESOTA IS STILL BOASTING
THE BEV. HON. ABOHIBALD
JAMES CAREY, PH. D. D. D, FOE
BISHOP OF THE A. M. E.
CHUBOH.
Evidently the Bev. Hon. Archibald
.lames Carey, Ph. D. D. D. must be
spending somo of the easy money
which ho draws down each month from
bo small taxpayers residing in this
city, as a member of Mayor William
Hale Thompson's kitchen cabinet, to
boom himself for one of the Bishops
of tho A. M. E. Church, for brother
J- Q. Adams, the able editor of the
Appeal St. Paul, Minn., has bean run
ning not for nothing,, tho cut of the
Bev. Hon. Archibald James Carey, Ph.
D. D. D. the past month on the front
Pago of his paper, boosting him for
bishop; but brother Adams ifl very
careful not to state one thing about his
famous and long to be remembered trip
to Milwaukee, Wis,, at the time he was
discovered stumbling around its streets
"o they say, without any ha oa the
toP or on the aide of his then befndled
or wet holy ghost or soft brained
watery head, and some contend that at
the time he was attending tho Sunday
school re-union that he toted a big gun
around in his hip pocket; if the dele
gates who will attend' the A. M. E.
Conference at Philadelphia, Pa., feel
that they want and must elect the Bev.
Hon. Archibald James Carey, Ph. D:
D. D. as one of their bishops they will
be welcome to him but they must re
member that many times when he in
in conversation with the Whites he
brazenly boasts of the fact that he is
almost White and that no one would
take him to bo a Negro or a Colored
man, and if the Colored people of Chi
cago are perfectly willing to permit the
Bev. Hon. Archibald James Carey, Ph.
D. D. D. and a big empty headed Col
ored man who is on the city pay roll
for a large sum of money who greatly
likes to spend his time in playing stud
poker, to pose at all times and on
occasions as their two most eminent
and distinguished leaders, they the Col
ored people residing in this city are
more than welcome to them, ae far as
we are concerned.
Monday evening the Amateur Min
strel Club gave its twentieth annual
show and dance at the Eight Begiment
Armory 35th street and Forest avenue
for the benefit of the Old Folks Home,
510 W. Garfield Boulevard. Between
two and three thousand people attend
ed tho affair and a large sum of money,
much larger than any previous year
was gathered in for the Old Folks.
Society was out in full force arrayed
in all of its Easter finery. On the
whole the Minstrel show was very good
but it seemed that tho great majority
of those present were not interested
in it and all they wanted to do was to
talk or chatter so loud that it was
utterly impossible to hear or under
stand anything that was 'going on, on
the stage; they were hoping and pray
ing that the show would be cut off
short so that they could get their 50
cents worth of dancing and "rubber
necking."
The ever witty and popular Joe
Shoecraft, cracked several jokes dur
ing his monologue, "Its all wrong"
at the expense of the writer; but owing
to the noise and confusion to catch
the points and enjoy the laughing.
LOWDEN IS ELECTED HEAD OF
HAWKEYE CLUB.
Col. Frank O. Lowden, Bepublican
candidate for governor of Illinois, was
elected president of the Hawkeye Club
on Wednesday, at a meeting of the
trustees at the Palmer House. Other
officers chosen were: John G. Schafer,
vice president; Henry Meyer, treas
urer, and Horace G. Lozier, secretary.
An inauguration banquet was given
last evening at the Auditorium HoteL
Mr. Dixon C. Williams, who will
shortly succeed Hon. Daniel A. Camp
bell as Postmaster of Chicago, was born
in Arkansas in 1859, his father, who
was an able lawyer and state senator,
passing away that same year; two
years later on his beloved mother mar
ried her second husband and removed
back to Lebanon, Tennessee where he
was raised, receiving his education at
the Cumberland University, after
emerging from that well known educa
tional institution he was employed as
a clerk in Motley's Bank for the next
two years, at the, expiration of that
time he assisted in tho organization of
the Peoples Bank now the American
National Bank and was its first teller,
at the early age of 17 years he became
happily united in marriage to Miss
Sallie McKnight the highly accom
plished daughter of Col. M. W. Mc
Knight of Woodbury, Tennessee an
from that time to the present they
have walked together through life,
hand in hand without any domestic
differences or complaints as Mrs.
Williams would never permit herself
to quarrel and consequently Mr. Wil
liams could not; they are the proud
parents of two children, Miss Mai Fair
and J. Lester Williams and for many
years Mr. and Mrs. Williams have re
sided at 910 Irving Park Boulevard.
Before coming to this city to reside
in 1893, and while still engaged in the
banking business at Lebanon, Tennes
see, Mr. Williams became the owner
and editor of the Begister, tho leading
Democratic newspaper in that section
of the country and he very successfully
ran it for three years, at the same
time becoming actively interested in
the Y. M. C. A. movement and the
health of Mrs. Williams becoming pre
carious he was compelled for the bene
fit of her health to remove to Waxa
hachie, Texas, where he made his head
quarters for the next three or four
years.
Shortly after making that city Ms
home he became quite prominent as a
lecturer and for more than .ten years
he traveled all over the country lec
turing, at the same time conducting
his basiaess, be carried a private secre
tary and stenographer with, him all the
time, during that same time ho secured
the franchise for the street railway
system in Anderson, Ind., and con
structed the system; in the meantime
his health failed him and he suffered
great pain from hemorrhages of the
throat, due to excessive public speak
ing, so his doctors advised him from
thence forth to absolutely ceaso all of
his efforts, at lecturing.
As stated before Mr. Williams, with
out any brass bands came to this great
city to reside in 1893 and for the past
25 years he has been one of its most
successful business men; he is engaged
in the manufacturing business, he is
still in business with the same gentle
man, who was his first or original part
ner in this city 24 years ago.
For some time past Mr. Williams has
been tho president of the Chicago Nip
ple Manufacturing Co. with offices and
dJfactory at 900 West Lake street, and
it is the largest independent manufac
turers of nipples in America.
Ho is past president of the Southern
Club of this city; he is an honored
member of tho Masons; Knights of
Pythias; Odd Fellows; Iroquois Club;
the Press Club, and the Sons of tho
American Bevolution.
He is an elder and member of the
Church of Providence, Presbyterian,
for 20 years, the Church of Providence
has now been amalgamated with the
First Presbyterian Church of Lake
View and he is still an elder in that
church, and has faithfully served as
one of the teachers of the Men's Bible
Class for the past ten years.
Mr. Williams waajrae of the original
Wilson men and served as a member
of the finance committee for Illinois
and rendered the very best service he
possibly could during the campaign cf
1912; and from start to finish he has
been one of the loyal supporters of
President Wilson.
He was also steadfast in his sup
port of Hon. Bobert M. Sweitzer for
Mayor of Chicago in 1915, and con
tributed some of his money to aid him
in his race or fight against Mayor
William Hale Thompson.
On Tuesday afternoon of this week,
the writer had a pleasant interview,
with Mr. Williams, at bis office, 900
W. Lake street, and to say the least,
he is a highly cultured southern gentle
man of the old school. He warmly and
cordially greeted us and made us feel
right at home from the very start and
during our conversation with him, he
referred to us either as editor Taylor
or Mr. Taylor.
Mr. Williams went on to state; that
"ho had always been friendly disposed
towards the Colored people; that he
was born and raised among them in
the southern states; that he has always,
been greatly interested in their prog
ress or advancement; that George
Bell, a Colored man, has been employed
in his family for the past thirteen
years; that ho has the utmost confi
dence in his honesty and integrity and
he feels that his family is safe and
well guarded from danger during his
absence, as long as George Bell, is on
watch."
Mr. Wiliams desires to inform the
Colored men who are connected with
the Chicago Postoffice, through the col
umns of The Broad Ax; that as long as
"they faithfully perform their several
tasks honestly and, endeavor to put
their best foot forward at all times
while in the employ of the Federal
Government under his supervision; that
they will bo perfectly secure in their
various positions and will receive fair
treatment and as long as they prove
efficient they will be promoted from
time to time."
Mr. Williams also desires to state,
for the benefit of tho men in the Chi
cago Postoffice, that; "shortly after he
assumes its duties as postmaster; that
ho will set aside one day or one-half
day each week, for the purpose of lis
tening to the complaints of any person
Black or White who may feel that they
have not been treated fair by their
superiors in the different branches of
the Chicago Postoffice."
Mr. Williams, being an up-to-date
and thorough business man, accus
tomed to handling or conducting large
affairs or enterprises, and unless we are
sadly mistaken in him in that direc
tion, we predict right now, that he
will, make one of the best and most
progressive postmasters Chicago has
ever had.
-' .
Wjj4fc-ugjA ,JtSfrmis"- ,. tjtaa d
&
v -a,--&.
r
. v'. .
