K,'i I J Ms H
w lA2 aft - j2l rt '-
Blffi M w wees JrAflitnll SftlflftlfhiftTlV '1 'f-im QinON J
kill Mr-mm" lAi VLJUVJv 1 v ,-M-v J IAP VVv JU twenty-eight pages
Hl I r 73 1-5Kk APr" 2B. Silver, J- tF ' ' J ' 7 L 1 w -w W r fl . vvns1--- " MMU
HW 9,8' JET' electrolytio, $28.50 Jf and Sunday; Colder Tonight, With M
MMMkm I ' ' " Wk a. LocaI Frost' Warmer In Northwest MMM
1 'J FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. ' - Portto" s""ay. H
l' , f " "
HI ! lSnS, Price nvexents. . , OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, APRIL 29, 1916, Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postoffice, Ogden .' '
I gritish at Kut Surrender I
hDlBLIN IN FLAMES
ii MORnRITtSH TROOPS ARE SENT
f TOWEL HUM IN IB Ml
SJ Soldiers dLtinue to Arrive in Dublin and Fighting in Irish
pitallontinuea Artillery Bombardments, Rifle Shots
iHIl n Ivos of Machine Guns Heard Many Bodies
Hf'J f v -Li JUnburied in City Streets Rebel Strong
Hs'l -i'-r jr Mds Under Fire Day and' Night.
HHif i It
Mffili Lotion, April 29, 1 2.40 p. m. Parts of the city of Dub-
HFUi n are n-ames an Evening News dispatch field at Belfast
mm M U as nl' savs- Street fighting continues and there is much
Bfif41h looting,fit,is said, but the reinforced military is making steady
BKOBp progress Most of the shops are closed and passenger com-
HpSf s)j municauqn is still cut off.
Bf'tiV t '' London, April 29, 4:45 p. m. One dispatch received
Kfy :l from Ireland this afternoon says that Sackville and Grafton
BHF;ffii J StreetSfjii'Dublin, are in flames, and that artillery is being used
K A t on theJKoUses, the inhabitants having been removed.
MMhsp, r &"$
t J I, , LondonTApril 29. Although the
K 111. $ ', story of UieaMLrly "hours of the Dublin
Pktjij t uprising jhaa$now been disclosed in
H II Si conslderablejjjletail, England is still
V owf 3 -without iuthentic Information as to
m fli 'li tlie ProsfesBtot later events. Normal
B"C&Bt M telegraph, telephone and mail services
Kt?!fl K "5V,tl1 Irelandfhare not "been restored
Bfijll "I an( e J0'59PS means of communica-
iMfttill ll on are'suJt to such strict censor-
BShll 1 slilp that JtxlipoBBlble to obtain only
BdM fragmentaryvinformation. Such news
HEttn dispatchesjaCclmie through this morn-
BR1 lnG addetlillftle to the informaUon
$ I ; contained4 lrf-'last night's official. 'ad-
Hvyjhl 1 Ticos and'slorles of -witnesses.
HBriVl I' " So fat' as'off lcial reports show, the
mm.kV M' situation iaDublIn Is being brought
ll under control. The most Important
recent newsjthat the rebels have been
driven o'utJofSt. Stephens Green with
I A bombs, sustaining heavy losses In klll-
M ed, wounded and prisoners, has not
m been poSflrmed officially. There
h seems 'toltie no doubt, however, that
1 the reDelfUtlll control various parts
iB of Dublin and that street fighting
If continuerlth a lengthening list of
K casualtle3lt Is reported th casual-
K H ity list already exceeds 100.
f v Of m'effttuatiou outside Dublin lit-
Kr lie is known beyond the official ad-
Jjl missWiJaht the disaffection has
Wl spread 'to'w,lous localities in the west
M and Bopth.of Ireland. Field Marshal
M" Frenchyfetatement of last night de-
J Ecrlbedttte'8 disturbances as local In
m charact3and so far as has been re-
w, " vealed bnformatlon which has pasB-
Lj ed Uve cjiworshlp, they -have not been
m attendedtVy heavy lighting.
Corni?ofldent RePrtB Situation.
I LondoeSApril 29 11:10 a. m. Up-
mWJW X wards df&n hundred persons have
mW P I been killed or Injured In Dublin, a
H' fll I' correspoadent at Belfast of the Even-
K ill lng NewLreports in a dispatch filed
MW vlfi 1 last nlrfi1 He Bays the Tioters ald'
mW ' H W den In Houses commanding important
Ht R B street MiScttons or covered by barri-
H 'i jl I cadeB Inlthe streets, are keeping up
,, ! ft a constant iubuiuu
mm i l- ThehlWof casualties Includes many
K5tS l v civIHans'&T'lio, the correspondent says,
Wr& i -have beSP cited off by Sinn Fein
J" 1 'snhfers Sno other reason than that
Kl t ?3 Sieved to be loyal.
Rtkti1 i ' TbocSon of troops Is being drawn
Bed ' cradnflllylbut surely around the reb-
KrJ -. el? SrSRolds. The authorities are
mmum ' maklnVSery effort to avoid unnec-
Kl L SSar?odshed and damage.
M1" J - fftranflers In Danger.
mafctyfUl 8l cf.iS4rs who traverse some parts
mriimMEl r5 31 portion of the city take
tt?33 tfcrf58S their own hands." the
Bif coriespdSeS continues "In one or
fcH--d2r8 shot down wo-
MmAl I; "Srirt S Sinn Fein reauls-
Wte ) I Itloned all B?otor cars entering the
K 1 city and iflS them Tor transporting
mm'l1' 1 ina.iit ammunition to concontra-
Wel I "eBn4 At the Law courts they
EX-i 1 Rt i ? POtt. of ueatructJon
H ( fl 1 SfUlgefefficS many valuable books
W Rr h0my SSSSSence library and tore
mmwr, m irom tnw.j f documents.
IB' ! I "' 1p..Tqua-iS?to state that Lady Wira-
wmrf W nmSfL of the Lord Lieutenant
HI y I 5??, iaiid Sir Robert and Lady
mt: fl IV .. AC l1 Sout whom there was
H ' S 1 , Andf 3$JPtr earlier in the week, are
Wl I. 23? llvK?0 to Ireland are being
nll Ml festiofifo leave Dublin with-
Hbll PffStHundred Hold Capital.
IH V - i rl April 27, via London.
HHflLilH'T A Turflnon. Fifteen hundred or
till' fc11 2Kn of the Sinn Fein had a
IlUr V 3termeSand'B capitol today. After
I?MM J5J on IK'nghting their rebel flag
l- wJI $ nSSf3-num ot central
PWQ ,- pdintD' Kday orae of tbe chief po
m, MJU' ,1?,nce,lRi,B city have been In the
m mWfL lU,onB Jml- rebels, In defending
Kth M4m - n?ndG 3eholds .Blnst regular
Wwmvlw PlPfrBh naWt volun-
If tSSiW f ""P3 afeibeUs are fighting with
MmSLmUw L60"' 1fefor tholr Uvea, which they
SBill' ?eaQraPElw forfeited on. account
BT PM t treaijo command all the reb-
el positions, the fall of which is mere
ly a question of time.
Streets of Dublin Deserted.
The streets of Dublin were desert
ed today, except for sentries and mili
tary guards. Business was at a stand
still. Civilians peeped anxiously
from behind curtained windows. Field
guns were barking, machine guns rat
tling and rifle flre was pattering, ap
parently from every quarter at the
same time.
Snipers Are Active.
When ,the Associated Pre,ss corxq
spondent landed early this morning
at the quay near the customs house,
the bullets of rifles of snipers In the
vicinity was frequent. Augustine
Blrrell, the secretary for Ireland, had
made the passage from England with
the newspaper men. As ho stepped
ashore he shouted cheerily: "I wish
you luck gentlemen. I don't know
what will happen to you, now that
you are here "
Soldiers and rebels fired at each
other from street corners, wharves,
roofs and windows. Sentries with fix
ed bayonets on loaded rifles, stationed
every few yards, shouted their com
mands to halt. Naval guns Joined in
and added to the deafening gun-fire.
From the quay the respective posi
tions could be seen The rebels were
holding a square section of territory
from the point where Liberty Hall
stood, before a gunboat destroyed It,
as far as Sackville street, to St.
Stephen's Green and the Four Courts
district, and along- the southern side
of the river to the Butt and O'Connell
bridges. They also held isolated posi
tions in a flour mill and a disused dis
tillery opposite the Northwall station.
Many Sharp Battles.
Over all this section there was con
siderable fighting the whole day. The
distillery was the scene of one of the
sharpest little battles of the uprising.
The rebels were torced out of the
flour mill
Soon ajiaval scun opened fire. The
first shot hit the tower of the distil
lery and then half a dozen more struck
the roof around It. The rebel flag still
flew and the rebels replied with rifles
and machine guns.
The bombardment ceased after a
dozen shots, but was renewed later.
Hit after hit was scored, but the flag
remained hanging from Its pole. One
shot hit a water tank just below it
and for a time there was a miniature
cascade down the walls of the dlstll
lerj'. When night fell and all firing ex
cepL with rifles ceased the flag was
still flying defiantly over the side of
the little towner.
Another brief artillery bombard
ment was' directed against barricades
in Sackville street. Clouds of thick
smoke soon arose around various
prominent objects In that part of Dub
lin as the shells burst, while between
tlmc3 the rattle of the machine guns
seemed like a continuation of the re
verbatlon of the heavy pieces.
Zone Closely Guarded.
So closely guarded wcro the ap
proaches to the fighting zone that It
was impossible to guage accurately
what damage was done and attempts
by correspondents to pass along a
street leading' toward the center of the
city brought upon them a detachment
of soldiers with weapons ready for
use. The troops had early in the re
bellion learned to distrust civilians,
some of whom were found to be evi
dently in sympathy with the Sinn
Feiners, If not In league with them.
Wearing .khaki meant the same as a
sentence of death.
When the revolt began at 1 o'clock
Monday afternoon the soldiers walk
ing about the city were as usual un
armed, and numbers of them paid
tho full penalty without being able to
defend themselves.
Postmen Sent Away.
Postmen on duty at the general
postoffice, which was the first build
ing seized by tho Sinn Feiners and
which later became their headquart
ers, were sent away and told to come
back In a week for their wapes whiqh
would be paid in Irish Republican
Lii . . . u .
coinage. The rebels cut all the wires,
destroyed the npparatus and seized
all the money they could find.
Everything except failure seemed
to have been forseen by tho rebels
who, when they started the revolt,
were as well uniformed as were the
regular soldiers. Their clothing, arms
and equipment were good and they
wore even provided with entrench
ment tools which they used when
they marched on St Stephen's Green.
Using German Bullets.
The ammunition supply of the reb
els appeared to be plentiful, and was
used unsparingly. Some bullets which
entered the hotel where the corre
spondents assembled were certainly
of German manufacture. Other weap
ons used by the rebels were twelve
bore shot guns and cartridges filled
with ugly leaden slugs
The battle was thickest today
around an entire block of business
houses In tho Sackville street quar
ter These buildings had been occu
pied by the rebels at tho start and
breaches had been made In a party
wall between the stores so 'that the
men could retreat fighting from one
room to another in tho event of tho
places being stormed.
Tonight the Irish capitol was bril
liantly lighted by the flames from an
important block of houses, a couple of
acres in extent. Frequent explosions
occurred, followed by salvos of ma
chine gun and rifle fire turned on the
rebels who were making their way
from one building to another.
No exact idea of the number of
casualties was obtainable, but many
bodies were lying about the streets
unburled. Houses contained many
others. The authorities said the
troops had not suffered nearly as
much as had the rebels whose strong
holds were under fire at all times
both day and night
SPECIAL TRAINS
DDIAiT BFDTI Q
Kill vll lirKrl
If N H it H VrU S 1 U HUM m a U
Ll 1111 ill 51LULLU
Sinn Feiners Arrive efe Excur
sionists and Join in Fight by
Concerted Move.
SIEGE ALL BAKERIES
Men Seemingly Working in
Gardens Suddenly Pick Up
- Guns and Begin Shooting.
London, April 29, 12-32 p, m. Sim
ultaneously with the outbreak in Dub
lin on Monday says a dispatch to the
Exchange Telegraph company, dated
yesterday, a number of excursion
trains arrived with men apparently
pleasure-bent Immediately upon
reaching the station, these men pro
ceeded to.Joln the rebels and by a
concerted move captured all the bak
eries and tholr delivery wagons, as
well as motor cars, street cars and
carts in the vicinity. Many of the
vehicles wero used to erect barri
cades while the cushions were util
ized in the lino of trenches which
was dug in St. Stephen's Green.
uu
IRISH AIDING
THE BRITISH
London, April 29, 4.15 p. m. John
Redmond, leader of the Irish Nation
alists, has placed himself absolutely
at the disposal of tho authorities and
is in constant touch with them. He
has instructed Nationalist supporters
In all parts of Ireland to hold them
selves at the disposal of the military
authorities.
In many places besides Dublin, the
Nationalist voters have already, on
their own initiative, mobilized In sup
port of the troops. At TIpporary yes
terday volunteors offered their services.
COL. ROOSEVELT
TO BE SPEAKER
Former President Will Ad
dress Bar Association on In
ternational Duties and
American Ideals.
Chicago, April 29. Reservations for
seats at tho dinner of the Illinois Bar
association at which Colonel Theo
dore Roosevelt Is to sponk tonight in
dicated today tho meeting would be
ono of the largest over held by tho
bar association.
Colonel RooBevelt will speak on
"International Duties and American
Ideals." More than 1000 lawyers and
hundreds of other guesds will greet
the formed president j
VERDUN FIGHT ENDS I
H
GREAT VERDI
BATTLE ENDED
Heavy German Batteries
Withdrawn From Verdun
and Probably Sent to
British Front.
PETAIN IS HONORED
French Commander and Other
High Officers Decorated for
Part Taken in Defense
of Fortress.
Paris, April 29, 5 a. m. The battle
of Verdun may1 now be considered as
ended, according to the opinion pre
vailing in French military circles. Not
only tho recent French official re
ports, but yesterday's German an
nouncement stated that nothing Im
portant had developed In the Verdun
region. It is nearly two months since
the Gorman war office has made such
a statement.
Heavy German batteries in consid
erable number have been withdrawn!
from before Verdun and sent to a dis
tant point which, Judging from the In
creasing activity there, probably is
the portion of the line held up by the
British.
The announcement of the decora
tion of General Petaln and other high
officers who have taken part in the
battle, Is regarded as an indication
that the French authorities share the,
l? thaJLhe, ask ofdeendin& Ver
aun lias been ojoughl to an end.
CONFERENCE IS
ON AT BORDER
Generals Scott and Funston
Meet Mexican Minister of
War at El Paso.
CORDIAL GREETINGS
Obregon Hopeful That Satis
factory Results Will Follow
Threshing Out of Prob
lems. EI Paso, Texas, April 29. General
Alvaro Obregon, minister of war of
the do facto government, with the
chief military commanders of north
ern Mexico, made a return call of
courtesy this morning upon Major
Generals Scott and Funston. prelimin
ary to the first conference between
the American and Mexican military
officials that is largely to determine
the future course of the military arm
of the United StateB that has thrust
itself Into Mexican territory in pur
'suit of Franciscos Vl'la and his ban
dits In either the greci room of the
famous Aduana Fronteriza or customs
I house in Juarez, Mexico, or at some
J agreed place in El Paso, the conferees
were In readiness to submit their pro
posals and counter-proposals at their
first session and It was Minister of
War Obregon who, with plenary pow
ers from First Chief Carranza sounded
a hopeful note with the expression
that "We should reach a satisfactory
termination of these negotiations that
will meet with the approval of our
people."
Proposals to Be Made.
Minister of War Obregon, with Gen
erate Trevlno, Gutierrez, Calles, Ga
vira and Santos with his olvlllan as
sistants will submit the proposition
that the de facto government is now
ready to take over tho pursuit of the
Villistas, and protect the border and,
therefore, the "United States soldiers
In Mexico should be recalled, while
Generals Scott and Funston will coun
ter, It is understood, with the propo
sition that American troops be dis
posed in certain spheres of Northern
Chihuahua there to remain until tho
Carranza government has shown by
deed as well as word, that there is
no longer a Vllllsta menace to the
American bordor states.
Major-General Scott Bald that, not
until he had conferred with Genoral
Obregon during the cnll of tho Mexi
can officials tills morning would it
be definitely known whether the first
conference would be held in Juarez
or El Paso.
The general added that tho confer
ence might not be hold today, but
Sunday or Mondny,
U. S. Cavalry Escorts Obregon,
Genoral Obregon and his party
Journeyed from Juarez this morning
to El Paso. At tho International
bridge they wcro met by a troop of
American cavalry which oscorted
them through thronged streets, guard
ed with infantry, to the railroad sta
tion where on General Scott's private
car ' the Mexican officials were wel
comed. The return call was of some
length and the plans for the first con
ference were discussed.
There is no disposition on the part
of any of the conferees to believe that
there will be any extended negotia
tions, which, it is thought, will be
concluded early next week. The
American military representatives will
be In close and constant touch with
Washington and It is there that El
Paso believes the first news will be
made known of the outcome of the
conference.
General Pelias Calles, military gov
ernor of Sonora, and General JFrancls
co Sorrano, chief of staff of General
Obregon, reached Juarez today. Gen
eral Calles was accompanied by jjfxl
can Consul Lelevier of Douglas, aVri-zona.
REBELS STILL
CONTROL DUBLIN
London, April 29, 10:17 a. m. "The
thing that surprises me the most
about the uprising In Dublin is tho
supply of munitions In the hands of
the rebels," said an arrival from Ire
land today. He spent ten hours in
Dublin on Tuesday and, departing
that evening, remained until last
night in Kingstown.
"There is little doubt 4n the popu
lar mind that Germans "have? been
landing arms from submarines for
months," he continued, "and it Is
even said though I don't believe It
that a few Germans also landed and
organized.
, Police Made Prisoners.
"I learned that the rebels made
prisoners of a -large number of-pollce--men
and a few stray soldiers at the
Royal Irish constabulary depot aud
at Phoenix park.
"My walk through the center of
the cftsr Tuesday afternoon was very
eventful and I was glad finally to
reach Kingstown. I was challenged
many times by both rebel and loyal
sentries. The rebol sentries were
' threatening but allowed me to pass
I after searching for arms."
I Countess Shoots Guard.
"I heard that the Countess Markie
vlcz, the sister of an Irish baron, who
was prominent in tho Larkln strike
and a leading figure in the present
movement, shot dead a guard In front
of Dublin Castle in an effort to cap
ture the castle. This effort proved
abortive."
This Informant, who is an engineer
of the war department, and a strong
royalist, Bays a great majority of the
people of Ireland are without sympa
thy for the rebels, whom they regard
as a small and irresponsible minority.
Royal Englneeo's Experience.
Of this nxDeriences In the city the
engineer said:
"I reached a point opposite the
Shelborne hotel shortly after 4 o'clock
Tuesday afternoon. Much firing be
tween the rebels and the troops was
in progress. It was said the troops
were caught unprepared and suffered
some casualties. The cavalry assist
ed the infantry wholeheartedly.
-"The largest drygoods store In the
city had been taken by tho rebels
The store was fired on by the regu
lars, who used artillery. The build
ing was set on fire and destroyed,
together with the Imperial hotel
nearby.
Alderman Is Killed.
"I heard a report, which I could
not verify, that Alderman Kelly, a
large tobacco dealer and a member
of the Sinn Fein, was killed when the
rebels were driven from his place. A
report also was current that James
Connolly, a Sinn Fein leader, had
been killed.
"I beard from a man who was pres
ent that the troops, on taking Liberty
hall after Its destruction by shell fire,
found a secret tunnel through which
the rebels escaped, taking all but a
few of the wounded to the Amiens
street railway station.
Flags of Republic.
"In walking about St. Stephens and
College Greens, I was surprised at
the number of flags of the so-called
IriBh republic.
"Thero was some looting by the
rabble following In the wako ot the
rebels. Afterwards I saw ?5 shoes
selling from carts in the streets for
ten cents and upwards, while silk
hats, blouseB and fine lingerie were
equally cheap. There was no looting
by tho rebels thomseives, further
than the throwing out to poor wom
en In the streets of sacks of flour
and biscuits from a biscuit factory
which they wero still holding when I
left Dublin on Tuesday night.
Bread Supply Runs Short.
"Clergy of all denominations seem
ed active In holplnjr tho wounded re
gardlosB o fexposuro to danger. The
bread supply already -was beginning
to run short on Tuesday afternoon,
owing probably to requisitions of the
rebels and thQ troops. I understood
a delegation-of Catholic priests had
made arrangements with tho robols
with a view to supplying the civil
population."
oo
A man's wife may not know what
he suspects abut hor, and often he
doesn't suspect what she knows about
him, , I
t
LACK OF SUPPLIES FORCES : I
BELEAGUERED ARMY TO QUIT I
General Townshend With Ten Thousand Men Ends Siege of I
143 Days After Destroying Guns and Munitions British H
Make Memorable Resistance Against Turks While H
I Facing Starvation and Death. H
News from the disturbed sections
of Ireland is still much belated and
the present situation is clouded with
uncertainty in the lack of official
announcements or the free movement
of the news dispatches.
A London newspaper reports that
the rebels In Dublin have been driv
en out of their entrenched position In
Stephens Green by a bomb attack;
that they are still In control of vari
ous parts of the city, however, seems
evident.
In tho Verdun region of France tho
Germans have resumed a pronounced
aggressive. A vigorous attack east
of the Mouse near Douaumont was re
pulsed, Paris declares, while the
French artillery dispersed Germans
who massed for an assault in the
Avocourt sector.
London, April .29, 4:45 p. m. Major-General
Charles Townsend, com-
umuur in me onusu lorces DesieKeu
at Kut-el-Amara, Mesopotanla, by
Turkish forces since last December,
has surrendered. This information
was contained in a British official
statement issuetithis afternoon.
"Thef ollowing of f icial" announcement"
was made: i
"After a resistance protracted for
143 days and conducted with a gal
lantry and fortitude that will be for
ever memorable, General Townshend
has been compelled by the final ex
haustion of his supplies, to surrender.
"Before doing so he destroyed his
guns and munitions.
"The force under him consists of
2,970 British troops of all ranks and
services, and some 6,000 Indian troops
and their followers."
The statement adds that General
Townsend destroyed all his guns and
munitions before surrendering.
G yieral Townshend, commanding
the l ritish force beleaguered by Turks
at Kut-el-Amara in Mesopotamia since
last December, has surreudered with
about 10,000 men.
Newspaper dispatches from Dublin
report parts of the city in flames, with
street fighting and looting continuing
but with steady progress being made
by the military against the rebels.
The situation in districts outside Dub
lin is clouded in uncertainty.
British Starved Out.
General Townshend probably was
driven to surrender to avoid starva
tion of his 'forces. A recent official
Turkish communication said that the
position of the British at Kut-El-Amara
was critical, and that they
were expected to receive small sup
plies of food by aeroplane. An offi
cial statement received yesterday
from London showed that a last ef
fort to send supplies to the garrison
had failed. It was announced that a
ship laden with supplies had been
sent up the Tigris, that it had been
grounded about four miles eaBt of
the city. -v
Loss than a score of miles away,
on the banks of the Tigris, below the
city, Is a relief army which for
months had been attempting to Teach
the besieged forces of General Town
shend. Of late the Turks' resistance
has increased and,aided by floods,
they have been able to hold the Brit
ish in check.
No official figures have been given
out as to tho number of troops which
set forth from the Persian gulf in
November of 1914 on the expedition
which has now ended in surrender.
Unofficially the number has been es
timated as high as 50,000 but it was
probably considerably smaller than
tids This force has suffered heavy
losses in severe battles with the
Turks.
Germans Capture Over 5,600 Men7
Berlin, April 29, via London,4:50 p.
m, The capture of Russian positions
south of Lake Narocz between SJan
aroczc and Stachowie, together with
more than 5,600 prisoners, was an
nounced by tho war office today.
German army headquartors today
Issued the following statement:
"Western thenter- Between La Bas
see canal and Arras there wore lively
continuous mine ongngoments which
resulted successfully for us.
"In the sector of GIvenchy-en-Go-helle
our ndvanco Is progressing. Two
British hand grenade countor attacks
wero sanguinarily repulsed.
"In tho Mouse sector new Fropch
counter-attacks at Dead Man'B Hill
and eastward failed.
"Gorman nntl-alrcraft guus south
of Caronvillo brought down a French
blplano whoso occupants were dead.
"First Lieutenant Boelke, south of
Vaux, shot down his fourteenth aero
plane. '
"Eastern front: German troopB
" mm
south of Narocz lake made a thrust MM
In order to Improve their observation mmt
posts which had been reconquered IH
by us March 26. After and previous H
to March 20 German troops conquor- 'H
ed the Russian positions between H
Stanarocze and the farm of Stachowie. JmM
Fifty-six officers, including 'four state M
officers, and 5,600 men were taken H
prisoner and one cannon, 28 machine H
guns and ten mine throwers were cap- H
tured. Wm
Foe Suffers Bloody Losses; H
"The Russians also suffered heavy 'm
losses which were ' considerably in- H
creased during the night as the re- H
suit of a Russian counter-attack, which 'jMM
was effected In this masses. ; WMM
"The enemy was unable to recon- - H
quer one foot of lost territory. r H
"German airships attacked the raiP r H
road near Wenden and the railroad ? MM
tracks at Duenaburg and Ryecyca." H
London, April 29, 12:15 p. in. H
"There is every indication tonight MM
that the end is approaching," says a ' H
dispatr i to the Exchange Telegraph H
company from Dublin under Friday's,..- H
date. "Troops haxcboeii arrivingaU H
day and intermittent fighting lias
been going on to the disadvantage of . MMt
the rebels. Ther,e was some shelling H
on Thursday night in the center of L mwM
the city, which Is a. stronghold of the i H
Sinn Feiners. Several fires were -f MM
caused and the largest of these was mmm
still! burning this morning. H
"Tonight (Friday) there has been WMM
a fuither action and it is stated that ' WMM
the building which suffered principal- , H
ly was Jacobs' factory
" It is around this building that some -f WMM
of the fiercest fightiiig took placo , H
Monday evening. The rebels com- WMM
mandered large supplies of food and j ,H
stocked the building, where they H
hoped to hold out for some time. V 1
This evening an attack on the build- 1
lng began and just now, as the boat WMM
is ready to depart from Kingstown, WMM
we can see- across the bay flames i H
shooting up iuto the sky." ,H
S British Casualties, ' H
London, April 29, 10:15 a. m. Brit- MM
ish casualties, this month as compiled t MMM
from published lists are slightly in iH
excess of those in March. The total MMM
from all fields of operation is $1,255 iH
officers and 19,256 men, compared jH
with 1,107 officers and 19,317 men in fH
March. MMM
oo i H
GERMAN REPLY -
NOW COMPLETE
London, April 29, 4:32 p. m. Tho H
Berliner Tagcblatt says that Ger- H
many's reply to the- latest Amerlcpu 1
note has been completed and will be H
delivered at the beginning of next 1
week, according to a dispatch from H
Copenhagen to the Exchange Tele- H
graph company. H
THE GERMANS I
Paris, April 29, 12.30 p. m. After
If violent bombardment of French po- H
sitibns. near Avocourt and on Hill H
No. 304 on tho Verdun front1 west of H
tho Mouse, German troops were
massed for an assault. Tho war of-
fice report this aftcrnoou (says this H
attack wns prevented by French artil-
lery. which dispersed tho German H
A vigorous attack was made on 1
French trenches cast of Thiaumont H
Farm, but the Germans wore repulsed c 1
with heavy losses.
SCOTCH OPPOSE
CONSCRIPTION
Glasgow, April 29, 4:09 p. m. Tho r
Scottish Tardes Union congress, by a 1
vote of 66 to 46 today declared its H
opposition to compulsory military sor- H
The vote ia considered significant H
as herotoforo the Scottish Trades un- H
ionlsts have beeu virtually unanimous H
against compulsory service. H
One way to earn a living Is byhonr H
Pit labor, but some men sever tJiinVJHH
vt tryins it. T jMMwmmm
itmMMwwwM
