The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV ST. PIRA~NVIILL WiST PIUOIANA PARISH, LOUlalAA, SATUROAY, APRIL 1, 1@11 NO. I
, r I , iIl.. pl :_:- i ,,i, ::- : - II I-- I -:  - 1,,r 11?:,, -, . .,..,.l - I.,r 1,=..,. ...... ..... . ...
THE RIOHT PLACE AT LAST.
(The eIrlcianas of Course.
A Northern poet, who came South
on a prospeeting trip, was moved to
verse by the advatags, beauty and
climate, and here is what he wrote.
under the caption. "The Right Place
at Last":
Well, wife. I've found the promised
land,
I hove in here today.
Slid from an iceberg, rthe snow,
Kerplunk. into middle of May.
I've always hesitated some
A handln' out my hand
To any of those blamed crack shots
Of Lee and Jackson's bend;
Thought they wus slow an' leay like,
An' oflIsh, an' sum proud.
( Pact Is in '93 they wuas
A darn peetirrous crowd I
sut, pehaw. the welcome that I got
Was so spontan'yous that
It knocked my old-time prejudice
into a small cocked hat.
The land's Jee' like a picture book
Held up before your eye.
You'd think the trainman set you off
Right smack In Paradise.
There's great bll palms a settin' round,
(They must come seand'lous low),
An' bowers an' orange trees an' things
That make. a scrumptious show.
The homes are not big palees,
Lke castles on the Rhine,
Rut, by Heek, they've got comfort writ
All over every line.
I saw big ields of garden ses
All green, row after row,
And couldn't think that beck at home
Right now you're saovelln' snow.
And when the stars peeped out last
night.
And the soothin' seouth wind blew.
All that It lached of the Garda of Edeu
Was that I didn't have you.
Now, wife, 'll tell you what I've dose:
I ýje' made up my mind,
That this land's good enough for us.
The portiest spot we'll and.
I bought a lot this afternoon
(The others all bought, too.)
An' give my orders for a house
Jee' right for me and you.
So pack the things an' come on down,
Per goodness sake, be spry;
I'm thawed out now an' gettin' young.
Up there I'd treese and die.
You know our ree@ will soon be run,
We've faced the storms together;
The balance of our trip we'll have
Pair skine and summer weather.
FATHER'S PERIL.
(Walter U. Doty In National Rtunday
Maglasane. I
Just three or four time-yellowed
paes. In an old oolonlal diary. How
the manuueeript caime into my poses
slon is Immaterial, But here are two
paragraphs:
"Pebruary ye tenth, 182. This day
n moet terrible tbhinlg happened to
Father. It hath beesn a long, cold
winter, and ye menbers of our little
eooley have suffered grtevously. sup
plie being scant. Our larder belng
well-ntgh bare, my gIodly ather start.
ed forth tn search of ame. Of late it
hath grown eseeedalngly diculit to oh
tai powder and lead. Pather had but
see charge left for his trusty bluander
buss; but, belng a famon shot,. be had
so doubt that this weould prove suf
Seleet to bring home some wild ea
ture, that the household might be sup
plied with met.
"NHe had wandered nsome way from
e settlement when bhe siglhted a wild
tushey perched on a limb Drawing
sneart bhe took aim. At this moment a
selktLn savage leaped from behind a
tree aer by. As arrow hurtled past
der Pathers head, barely mlstag
hi. Qulekly be turned his blueader
bus upon ye savagte and prepared to
are. But ye theoght eame to bhin that
his wife and ehldren were in dire
Mstraits for food. Hlaving but the eoe
lot, what sbuld he de? To slay ye
savage wbd mean that ye turkey
would serape. shoobet ye turkey
mould plase Pather at merwy at ye
erunel Redekta. omeartarutly be bel.
lated. but sddealy dotemtnlag p nn
a eld eeeu he took steady anlm. Bred
and sleW *---"
Mee the mralnsript lbreaks d. r
san tuhat I eve nran uM the seo
Smes.
LADI PFAIR MIlETlN.
The ladles' Deartmeat of the West
rFileiana Fair Assoeiltion held a meet.
Ing at the court house. Tuesday aftoer
noon at 4 o'clock, at the call of Mrs. O.
I). Brooks. (eneral Chairman.
There were twenty-one ladles pre.
ent, as follows: Meedamee Jao. Muller,
Chas. Barrow. R. L. Crump, I8 . M. e,
Jas. Perkins, Walter Maryman. Willis
Daniel. 8. McC. Lawrmaso, 8, Powell,
A. F. Barrow, L. Klibourne, . U. Ball,
B. Leopold. Jas. Kilbourne. W. 8. Biles,
0, D. Brooks, and J. R. Matthews; also
the follownlag young ladies: Missee
Leonora Mahoney. Hilda Simmons,
Jessie PolkIs. Mary Toorea.
Mr ('rump, as Secretary of the Pair
Association, was also present.
The meeting was called to order by
Mr Crump. at the request of Mrs.
Brooks. Mr. Crump stated that the
object of the meeting was to complete
the organlusaton of the Ladles' Depart.
ment of the Fair Assoeiation and to
decide upon the premiums to be offered
in the various divisions of the Ladies'
Department.
The work of selecting the premiums
and fixing the amounts was taken up
next Many suggestions were made by
the ladles and after considerable do.
liberation and work on the list, the
premium list was completed. The list
will be Incorporated ina the fair catalog
and publlshed at an early date.
The following asuprintendents were
appointed by the Chairman: Mrs. Ben
Leopold. JuvenIle Department; Mrs. i.
U. hall. Art Departmet; Mrs. Jes.
Perktis, Juvenile Work.
letsg unable to be present, Mrs.
I. Robinson of The True Demoerst
sent a message that she would *o.
operate with all the ladies in their
various departments In glving se*w
sary publicity to their plea.
The .oliewing Me and regulateas
were adopted to govern the Ladaes'
Departmeat:
No premiums will be awarded where
the exhibit is unworthy.
The entry books of this department
will open October 10 and eoke October
11, 116. In making entries follow the
wording In premium list.
1. All artcles entered iL this depart.
meat must be delivered on Otober 10
and il between 10 a. m. and :30 p. a.,
at Ladies' Department of the fair
Grounds. In no cireumsteane will
goods be received after that date.
2. All articles In this department
must be exhibited by the maker.
3. If it Is ascertalaned that any es
hibitor has made false statement of
entry In regard to any article exhibit
ed. all premiums awarded her shall be
forfeited, and she shall be edeluded
from competition or exhibition on the
grounds of the Fair Assoelation.
4. All imported articles are strictly
barred from competition, but may be
placed on exhibition. This Includes
Mexican drawn-work.
S. No article sca be exhibited to I
compete for more than one premium, I
except In general display of the class. I
. This department oIs open to ladle (
sad girls Iltvl In West FPelleas
Parish ealy.
T. A display must oesist of at least
three artiles. A s~amen must be
an entirely Bushed article. The udges,
In awardina premlums, must consider,
Irnt, quality; scond, variety.
8. Artilets made by professeaals or
those working for profeselonals will
not be considered. Any professienal
who wishes to make an eahibit will be
furnished free space.
. Preserves and pickles should be
In not lee than plat jars. Jelly i
glasses. Display consists of three kinds
of fruit.
10. Ladies' made-up articles must be
hand-made.
Regular meetings of the Ladles' Doe
partment will be held on the frst Wed
nseday of each month at 8 p. m. at the i
court house.
FPlnassel Statement.
Previously acknowledged ......441.60
T. D. Bickham ................ 1.50 I
Dr. W. W. ilurekhaltr ....... 0.00
Total to Wednesday evening ...$464 00.
More and more soy beans will be
grown as the years go by. It is one
of our greatest erops and will one day
be planted almost as exteasively as,
corn or wheat. The farmer who Is not
growlag any this year for hay or graln
should at least plant a pateh for his
hops to eat. It he will wait until the
beoas begin ripelag and then turn
the pigs In he will make some veryI
bcheap pork.
A Department Store That '.oes After
the Men's and Boys' Business
This is just as much of a man's store as It is a ladies'. We have everything you can get
in the exclusive stores, less the exclusive prices. WE CAN AND WE DO POSITIVELY
sell you men's wearing apparel for less than you can buy the same kind of merchandise
In any other store in Baton Rouge. All we ask you to do is compare our prices, our
merchandise and our service with any in the city and we are sure you will declare us
leaders. One thing is positive-YOU ABOVE ALL MUST BE SATISFIED.
Men's Palm Beach Suits Men's Underwear Men's Suits
Every suit bears the genuine Palm Beach label in 200 Dosen Men's Underwear--Athletic Coat Shirts Men' Dephyr cool en's Frather Wtight
cost collar, made French mutton leg front. The kind and Knee Drawers-Positive 50c and 75e values, wash . $5,.. ...... $850
you pay $6.50 and 7.50 a suit. Our price. 4.50 each .......................... ....... 25 '... wool crash Men All wool
No need to tell you that this is away under regular priis. Boght for spot eah frea one of the largest sand beet manu Wash $1195
E1very man knows what Genuine Palm Beaeh is-"and deb't faetuere l the United States. 00ee doses Men's Athletic Cot I uts ..... Suits...... $1195
let any one tell you they are not genutne." And for the tallor Skhts sand Knee Drawers, In satin plaids, meroerised mulls, Ma's Keep C(ool Men's highh Art
ing, Snlsh and style, compare them with others that are sold madras., sanooks, etc. These are kown as "factory hurts"; Wash A' All Wool
In this town at $4.0o sad $7.0. Thre are only $0 suits in nothing that will hurt the weartg quality or it of the ar I utts..... .. I50 I ulte. $18. 00
this lot and they won't last long. Surely every mag who sees met; I fact, it takes an expert to datet the defees. P- any man wt w t
them will buy two or more suits. All ses It regular and stoats. tively good me ad Te values, all sies, extra special at tt war at
WORK SHIRTS. sOYS EIIACH CLOTH SUITS. PAD GARTER. LISLE UNDERWEAR. SILK 1HO .
Men's Past Color Blue Chambray Boys' Beach Cloth Slts, Norfolk Men's Melreelad Pad Osrters, la Men's lune lt' Undorshirts and Mien's llk Hose, slight imperfee
Work shirts, well made, full eat, styles and kntckerboeker palats; all r R tlghto brand, Drawers, full blebaced, brench lons; has double heels and toes;
double stitched and pockets. The seas from 6 to 17 years. They regarlar 2e kind. 12 neck shirts and double saddle eat regular tl va.lue.
same' shirts advertised at be. look Iltk Palm Beach and ear as the parlt....... drawers; regular 76e value. , pl, pair
rehxa speial, well; worth 9t126. UNDERWEAR. Speetal for this sale, each.3
each ..................... Special the suit...... Boy' Balbrilgga Undershirts and ATHLETIC VESTS. SILK HOSe.
IPORT SHIRTl. sOYS' GENUINE PALM 88ACH Drawers, all saes, worth s. Men'. slip-over Athletl se Mens S'it Land Merrrlrised l.Ile
AND ZEPHYR COOL SUITS. Extra special. IL5 Ribbed Utldershlrts, sells regular loe. witrllouble heels, sals and
rnge of colors, kind ard styles; The same suits you are I , the ... . at 1. .tra special to*; all colory. re"ular
.onme with difRrent collrs and babit of paying $6 for; well made. TAPELESS BLOUSES. each at .................. kind, the pair 15c
aff.; excellent 71 vluesr. Erta high-clas Norfolk and belt back Boys' Percale and Madras Tapep HANDKIRCHIIs
special for thi sale, suits to It boys from to 17 lees Blouses, slaes up to 14 yar Men'oft lshed omotthed MEN'S NEOLIlOG SHIRTS
each .................... ars. eptonal bll regular 9Sc value. 19 C ('ambrie Handkerchiefs. regular lIm' dosen of the famous Ilsmmond
big values, the suit... U xtra special. .. e kind K Negtliee (oot hirts. n peracle
COAT SHIRTS. SIAM DRAWERS. BALRIOAN DRAWERS. Special. e . .. . and m;adras; some hete laundered
E & W. Coat Shirts, made of Men's Genuine Pepperell Jeaus Me's Pine Gause Natural BDal- N O A sothcrs with soft eull ; roller
percale and madras. la a wide Blausti Seam Drawers, ear web briggad Shirts and Drawers; t LINEN COLLAR. h wll i
range of est stripes and patte rasems and kalt akle; all lse drawers ankle ength and double Special ot of Men's Linen Collars, or all
all hand-laundered; regular $1.6 waistes and lengths; regular ide seats.shirtalongorborteleeves; all elstes, regular lte kind. Extra uP to 17%. aelive I vlllues up
valuer.s xtra special. kind. Etra speelal for regular eo kind. special for this sale to ''e Etra
ek ............ .. this sal, tee palr......... Special the rmeant.t ...... 25 e sel.... ..sc ......... se l 35c
FARRNBACHER'S
BATON ROUGE, LA.
.-, . -_.L _, . _I'~
gtlTER bAOlS.
(Walter Parker, Se.Treas., Jefferson
Highway Association, New Orleans.)
Now that the strenuous political
campaign has passed into history, pro
ponents of good roads In Louisitan are
looking forward to definlte action on
the part of the new State Legislature.
"Better Roade" should be the slogan of
the people of Louisiana, united in a
desire to have the great Jefferson High
way completed as early as possible.
Consnetlng New Orleans on the
South with Winnipeg on the North, the
Jelerson Highway promisee to be one
of the greatest transportation agencles
In the United States. Running practl
eatly through the center of Lousiana,
it will aford means of vehicular travel
for every resident of the State By
means of connecting highways, one of
the best good roads systems In the
United States can be built up.
J. D. Clarton. general manager of
the Jefferson Highway, Is expected to
come to Louisiana soon. Mr Clarkeon
has been touring the states north of
loulsiana, and has found nothing but
interest and enthusiasm In the project
In several Instancee, hundreds of miles
of the highway already have been com
.ileted, and the gap between New;
O(rleans and Winnipeg is rapidly being
shortened,
Aware of the manifold benefits that
will be conferred upon this section by
the building of the Jefferson Highway.
the people of Louisiana should urge
their legislators to assist in furthering
the meritorous project. Good roads
have become a positive seceesity, sad
the day has arrived for LeouslIan to
come to the fore.
CAPTURES MURDER SUSP(CT.
Deputy Sheri8 P. C. Wlicox arrested
Adolph Monyratta at Angola, Tuesday,
on a charge of being a fugitive from
Justlce.
The arrgst of Monyratta grows out
of the killing of Deputy Sheriff E. M.
Hocll of Atlanta, Winn Parish, Satur
day night, and if Monyratta Is not the
actual murderer be is thought to be a
material witness. He boarded a train
at Aihos on Sunday and came to
Naples. lie Is said to have told the
train crew that an ollleer had beet
killed and that he thought it beat for
him to leave. When the train crew
returned to Winn Pariah they reported
the circumstance to the authorities and
steps were taken to apprehend the
fugitive. It was learned that the man
had crossed the river to Angola and
was waiting to catch a freight train
for New Orleans Mr. Wilcox went to
Angola, Monday morning, placed the
man under arreat, and brought him to
jail In the afternoon.
sheril J. J. Payne arrived Tuesday
morning. After talking with the prist
uner the offleer was convinced that the
man was connected with the crime and
took him back to Winnfteld.
Monyratta is an extconvict, having
done time at Angola for a murder com
mitted In St. John Parish.
