KTf,
-:,i i"Y
o'.-'.r
UNI
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 2
CINCINNATI, OHIO, APRIL 29, 1916
One Dollar a Year
Jge abor gAdvoc ate
Campbell Before the Supreme Court
Attempts to Blacken the Character of Judge Otway J. Cosgrave in the
Painters Case. There is no Stopping Place for our Bright, Young
Prosecutor This Side of Officially Murdering These Four Men for
a Crime, Campbell Knows They Did Not Commit.
A Few Words About the
The average citizen of Cincinnati
could hardly believe that a conspiracy
of powerful influences are at work in
an effort to railroad the four unfortu
nate painters to the electric chair for
a crime that the conspirators know was
not committed by these men.
The Times-Star, official organ of all
labor-crushing devices in this city,
prints the following biased account of
Prosecutor Campbell's brief, as submit
ted to the Supreme Court:
"Statements charging 'misconduct'
and 'prejudice' against Judge Cosgrave
in connection with the trial of Herbert
Doty, are contained in the brief sent to
the Supreme Court Saturday by Prose
cutor Campbell and Assistant Prose
cutor Elstun. The Supreme Court, on
May !), will hear arguments on the re
quest of the State to have legal rulings
made by Judge Cosgrave during the
trial set aside. The jury disagreed and
the higher court decision is desired by
the State in advance of the retrial. The
indictment followed the murder of
James Shall, non-union painter, at
Christ Hospital annex, December 0, to
which Gabriel Sullivan pleaded guilty.
" 'To this somber record of the mas-
there
is one amusing sideliirht.' the brief
nays. n we may lie permitted to di
gress from thcrccord of the exceptions
before your honors (the Supreme Court
judges) to that made by the official
stenographer of arguments of counsel,
we call attention to the complete mast
ery of the hypnotist directing the mind
of the court.'
"Then follows a quotation of a collo
quy upon a legal point as argued by
Assistant Prosecutor Elstun, Attorneys
Thomas Cogan and A. C. Fricke for
Doty, and Judge Cosgrave.
" 'Think of it!' the brief reads, 'Britt
told Lyons and Lyons told Jones and
somebody whose name was forgotten
told Lyons that Jones told somebody
else a thing that a court having any
regard for the rules of evidence would
not have permitted Britt to tell the
jury.'
"The objection to Judge Cosgrave
having allowed attorneys for Doty to
make arguments to the court on legal
questions, in the presence of the jury,
also is made. The brief also takes ex
ception to Judge Cosgravc's charge to
the jury."
What is the object of printing such
stuff, except to create a public feeling
against these unfortunates and to boost
Campbell for something which, instead
of gloating over, lie should hang his
head in shame?
The Laiiok Advocate would never
have said a word about the painters'
case if they had been indicted and tried
on what they actually did.
We intend to publish the full story at
the right time. Notwithstanding that
we have lost some friends among those
who are using their influence to offici
ally murder these four painters, we will
go on until all such self-styled honest
Christian gentlemen devote their talents
to something higher.
This is not a political question. It
is one that is aimed at the heart of or
ganized labor by the same class who
control the militia.
Hon. Otway J. Cosgrave, a man who
has lived among us for many years,
and whose reputation for honesty and
veracity has never been questioned, tells
the public "that Campbell admitted to
him in advance that he could not prove
his case against the painters."
Still Campbell will appear before the
Supreme Court and endeavor to
blacken this old gentleman's character
in order that a few Christian manu
facturers may at least enjoy the pleas
ure of seeing four union men officially
murdered.
KAVOIt Cllllil) liAIKMt HILL.
Washington. The Senate Committee
on Interstate Commerce has ordered that
a favorable report to the Senate be made
on the Keating-Owen Child Labor bill.
Christian Gentlemen Who
Hon. Otway J. Cosgrave
Tells the Public, that Prosecutor Campbell Admitted
to him in Advance, that he Could not Prove his
Case Against the Painters.
i K .3t 7V'I1-TV' Mayf
rCCT-'-" li 1 1 ItlM I HJTl MM IhH Hl VnHlld
: K9HH9S
Hon. Otway J. Cosgnm
X
X
He indicted all five as
principals. At the same time the man, who Campbell admitted
actually fired the shot, was guilty only of second degree
murder, according to his plea entered on the court record
and accepted. How, then, could Mr. Campbell argue that the
other men, who knew nothing about the shooting until it had
occurred, were guilty of first degree murder, which required
'deliberation and premeditation?' "
Attorneys Cogan and Fricke will represent Judge Cosgrave
at the arguments before the Supreme Court.
MONEY COST OF ACCIDENTS
In Ohio Shown Strikingly in Itullc
tin Issued Ity Croxton.
Columbus, O. The money cost of ac
cidents in Ohio mercantile and indus
trial establishments for eighteen months
ending June lit), l'Jl.'i, is shown strikingly
in a bulletin which has been prepared
by Fred C. Croxton, head of the Statis
tical Bureau of the State Industrial Com
mission. During this period 1()U,UU:)
awards were made, and the total cost,
excluding medical, nursing and hospital
service, of self-insuring employers was
$4,434,((i!.37. This .includes also $!!:,
(i8.'!.:l as additional allowance to injured
workmen as compensation in earlier
cases.
The State paid out in cash .$:i,L'C.'i,
'18.'M and approved settlements by self
insuring employers amounting to $!13,
:i8().:iil. The sum paid as the result on
injuries to public employes was $11,
480. IS, and $112,8(17 was collected from
cmnlovers who had paid no heed there
tofore to the Workmen's Compensation
law.
Xearly one-third of the total 111. 4 per
cent to be exact, representing $1,021,
(i(.)'.'.18 was paid for death. claims, while
but 0.7 per cent was paid for totaldis
ability. In 4.1 per cent of the cases
the disability was so slight that only
medical care was paid for involving an
outlay of $i:!0,!)OS.74. As .between per
manent partial disability and temporary
disability the difference is pronounced,
I4.:i per cent, or $7i):i,'Jl 1.07, being paid
for permanent partial disability, and
:i!).4 per cent, or $l,i!H.:tr!T.rU. for tem
porary disability; $81,8.V.) in funeral ex
penses, and .f(i!)(),!).'i7,'i0 for medical, nurs
ing and hospital expenses.
The average death benefit was $2,
72(.i4, and $4(1.07 was the average in
jury award. Of the (11(1 death cases
there were no dependents in eighty-one
instances, and in these only funeral ex
penses were paid.
Are Behind the Entire Case.
4
t
"I can not understand
Mr. Campbell," Judge Cos-
grave said Saturday. "I
tried to assist him in pre
paring the case properly,
so as not to go to trial
with a charge he admitted
in advance he could not
prove. A question of his
own sincerity in the mat
ter might be raised from
the fact that he permitted
two men to remain on the
jury who declared they
r stances vote torTfirslT de
gree murder. I tried to
uiiiL uuk tip null wit; uuii-
culty he was up against.
CHANGE CAR FARE
And CJus Hates, Says .Members
Labor Council Committee.
of
The Public Utilities Committee of
Central Labor Council announced at the
meeting of Council Tuesday night, April
.'."), that it would make a report next week
on what organized labor expects in the
revision of street-car fares and a cheaper
gas rate. The committee also will make
a recommendation with reference to
street-car transfers. Several delegates
said Council should demand certain
things and then get out and light for
them.
Following a request from the commit
tee appointed to assist the Laundry
Workers' Union in its lockout at the
Arts and Crafts Laundry, Secretary
Prout was instructed to send a letter to
every union affiliated with Council, ask
ing financial assistance for the laundry
workers. The committee reported prog
ress on the establishment of a union
laundry.
E. L. llitchens, delegate from the
Typographical Union, asked Council's
aid in seeing that text books used in the
public schools were union made. He
said the Typographical Union will hold
a mass meeting to urge this in the near
future.
President Mugavin appointed II. C.
Smith, of the Street Car Men's Union,
as a member of the Grievance Commit
tee, to take the place of C. R. llartman,
who has removed from the city.
The Rapid Transit Campaign Com
mittee, through a communication, thanked
Council for its support of rapid transit
bond issue.
A letter from Joseph Proebstle, the
Secretary of the Trades Union Liberty
League of Ohio, criticizing the activities
of E. J. Keenan in behalf of prohibition,
was ordered spread upon the minutes of
Council.
The Building Trades Council
Holds Regular Meeting. Adopt Resolutions Requesting
the Board of Education to Adopt Union School
Books. The Demand For Working Cards
Reported To Be Increasing.
The meeting of the Building Trades
Council was called to order with Presi-
dent J. A. Cullen in the chair. i
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
A communication from the Building
Trades Council of Birmingham also was
read, asking the Cincinnati Council to
see Garry Herrmann and have him as
sist our Alabama brothers to have the
new speedway built by union labor.
Brother Hock reported that he had
called on Mr. Herrmann and that Garry
said he would use his good offices to
wards unionizing the job.
A communication was received from
the Cincinnati Allied Printing Trades
Council requesting the Building Trades
Council to write a letter to the Board of
Education urging that they adopt union
printed school books. This brought up
a lively discussion, not as to the request,
Labor May Go Over Head
Of Columbus Officials as Sequel to Protests. Forcible
Deportation Is Alleged By Chiefs, Who Say Organizers
Are Detained By Police.
Acute Situation Brought About When Union Leaders Fail
: r 3prJt4Hr--S
L,Js5;".n.C2i?bSrt
Columbus, Ohio. Allegations of for
cible deportation of labor organizers
from Columbus has stirred the Ohio
State Federation of Labor to action and
to filing of oral protests by the executive
board with city officials. Fear is ex
pressed by the labor representatives that
an attempt is to be made to "Colorado-
ize" the Capitol City and plans are being
formulated to bring the matter to an
issue very soon.
A firm of attorneys, John J. Lentz,
former congressman, and John D.
Karns, has been retained and the ques
tion is to be taken up with Governor
Willis and the Courts if an adjustment
of grievances can not be made with the
Columbus officials.
Xo answer was forthcoming from the
officials because they have been busy
with municipal financial difficulties, due
to the failure of large bond issues at
Tuesday's election.
Chief Is Iti'tieent.
However, Chief of Police Charles E.
Carter is reported to have said that a
conference on the protest was held, but
he did not outline what had taken place
in the meeting.
There has not yet been enough to
demonstrate clearly whether acute labor
troubles arc impending or not. but the
acute situation that has been developed
has been the cause of considerable spec
ulation. Xo strikes of importance are
in progress here at this time and openly
none has been threatened.
The incidents of which the labor men
complain are attributed directly to Chief
of Police Carter, who is reported to have
informed the State representatives that
lie acted under orders whose orders he
did not specify. Attending the meeting
of the executive board were President
John A. Voll, Zanesville: 0. B. Chap
man, Dayton; John J. Quinlivan, To
ledo; Thomas J. Donnelly, Cincinnati,
and John J. Graney, Youngstown.
Say Two Wen Deported.
The assertion is made that two fla
grant instances of deportation and
threatened deportation occurred within
the past few days. An organizer of ma
chinists named McMahon was called to
the office of the chief of police, it is al
leged, and told that he was not desired
in Columbus. A few nights later, the
labor men say, two organizers for the
Street Car Men's Union came to Colum
bus to help organize a car men's union.
A meeting was to have been held at mid
night, but when midnight came and some
of the car operatives had gathered at
the appointed rendezvous the organizers
were being detained by the chief of po
lice at his office, the men said.
but Frank E. Hell, who signed the letter,
is very unpopular with the building
crafts and the motion to concur was
nearly lost; it finally passed with the
understanding that the secretary write
to Bell, reminding him of some things
of the past.
Scab painters were reported to be
working on the Warsaw school and the
matter will be reported to the Building
Construction Employers' Association.
All trades reported business good.
Under the "good and welfare" of the
Council, various trades reported that the
demand for working cards had increased
greatly since the campaign for that pur
pose opened a few weeks ago. The first
trade on the job must ask cards from all
other crafts.
There being no other business the
Council adjourned to next Thursday
night.
Chas. K. Carter,
Chief of Police, Columbus, Ohio.
The chief, it is charged, kept them
there until :! o'clock in the morning. Ac
cording to the labor men. the chief told
the organizers that he "did not think
much of them nor of the business they
were in."
The labor men insist that no charge
can be made against the men and they
are strenuously objecting to the use of
governmental authority against labor or
zanizations. TO L'.MTK SOCIAL ACTIVITIES.
Xew York Social workers and others
interested in social activities have or
ganized the National Social Unit Organ
ization, which intends to finance and or
ganize an experiment in uniting all so
cial activities in some city to be later
selected.
The "development of a model program
for community organization, with the
counsel and advice of national social
experts," as the organizers of the move
ment have phrased it, will take the
form of attempting in each neighbor
hood of the chosen city to pool the ex
perience of the agents in various neigh
borhood and community activities and
to work out standardized methods.
The program contemplates an expen
diture of $135,000, of which $03,400 has
already been subscribed, it is stated, The
city to be organized is preferably one
of 300,(100 population.
of '
i.
V
