TODAY'S PRICES
Mninn bank noti mute btllat 100
1' M'xlcin psos F3 Na lonales bills
1 - i Hrranzit currency T Bar tlec
ill nl & Harmon quotations, 73
i -i i r I- r-029 Grain higher
T -i i k Ptcad Stock hlRher
HOME EDITION
TTKATHEK FORECAST.
El Pao nnd west Twai, unsettled cold
er; Nfw Mstro, niHttll, colder; Arl
oua, fnerallr fair.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS
single core pivb cents. EL PASO. TEXAS.SATURDAV EVENING. APRIL 29. 1916.
DELIVERED ANYWHERE 60 CENT3 A. MONTH
36 PAGES. 4 SECTIONS. TODAY
IN CONFERENCE
on AND
0BREG0N
mm. m - '
Lo
yifl IK Tfl FRENCH REPULSE
iunio
Beleaguered At Kut-El-
Amcra Since December,
Army Forced to Quit.
DESTROYS GUNS
AND MUNITIONS
British Official Stalement
Tells Of British Army's
Serious Reverse.
LONDON. En.. April 2.Mj. Gen.
Charles Townshend, commander
K Kf vi" Br'tUh force" be'fd at
r Iut-U-Amara. Mesopotania. by Turk
lib forces since laat December, has
surrendered. This Information was
contained In a British official state
ment issued this afternoon.
The official statement added that
Gen Townshend destroyed all his guns
and munitions before surrendering
The British fore, which surrendered
nt Kut-El-Amara amounts to about
J ii ouo men.
. . Supplies Exhausted.
The following official announcement
Mas made:
"After a resistance protracted for
33 days, and conducted with a gal
lantry and fortitude that will be for-
exr memorable. Oen. Townshend has
l en compelled by the final exhaustion
of his supplies to surrender.
Before doing a, he destroyed his
guns and munitions.
"The force under him consists of
- oruisn troops of all ranks and
services, and some 6000 Indian troops
end their followers."
Gen Townshend probably was driven
to surrender to avoid starvation of his
forces. A recent official Turkish com
munication said that the position of
the British at Kut-El-Amara was crlt
leal, and that they were expecting to
receive small supplies of food by air
plane An official statement received
Friday from London showed that a
last effort to send supplies to the gar-
frVrVh. ",'!? U w" nnoud
that a ship laden with supplies had
Wn sent up the Tigris, but had been
grounded about four miles east of the
Relief Army Near.
Leas than a score of milt,.- away, on
the banks of the Tlrrl. h.i. .v.
r.ty. is a relief army which for months
has been attempting to reach the be
sieged forces of Gen. Townshend. Of
late the Turkish resistance has In
creased and aided by floods, they have
been able to hold the British In check.
No official figures have been given
out as to the number of troops which
set forth from the Persian gulf In No
vember of 1U on the expedition which
has now ended In surrender. Unoffi
cially, the number has been estimated
as high as 60,000 but It was probably
considerably smaller than this. This
force has suffered heavy losses in se
vere batUes with the Turks.
BRITISH LOSSES IN APRIL
TOTAL OVER 20,000 MEN
London. Eng, April 29 British cas
ualties this month, as compiled from
published lists, is slightly In excess of
those in March The total from all
fields of operation Is 1256 officers and
IK J5I. men as compared with 1107 offi
cers and 19.317 men In March.
fILLISTA BANDS ARE ALL BROKEN
UP; IKll BELIEVED TO BE DEAD
-
Carranza Forces Coming in From the South, Out of Sym
pathy With Villa Followers, Are Looked to by United
States Troops to Continue the Work Started by
the Americans of Obliterating Bandits.
By GEO. H. CLEMENTS.
RAIiC5JS p"vide,lic'a. Chihuahua, Met, April 28, Via Namiquipa, Mex.,
April 28, Via Radio to Columbus, W. M, April 29.-Officers of the Seventh
cavalry arriving in this camp this afternoon from Minaca, Santo Tomas and
S!.lr '"J0, in totQuenero district are of the opinion that the Villa forces in the
bierra Madres in broken bands have been hit so hard and so often since the
Americans came into the country that all the fight has been taken out of them.
.. ? fflcerMy tha' the Americans have been given valuable assistance by
.Tfw',?1' ? 30 d?ys wVWn which closed with the defeat of
the last band of Viilittas of considerable size at Temochi Saturday, April 22.
- t 1W be"evedTtlatrithe Carranciitas with large reinforcements from Tor
reon, Zacatecas, San Luu Pototi and other stations in the southern portion of
ikT C,.-WlUCh,llM t0 -amve toaay' troops who ha noth'ie in common
,' na- l " ?,0nA ar.e in pMition t0 keeP the Villistas from re
.sjembhnB in numbers "HMaifly large to do damage or levy tribute.
Tbi. P n P? ' v "? 1 m!a amvine Uom the wt that Villa is dead.
This opinion is said to be entertained by natives of all .hades of political opinion.
Mexico Herself Will
' o
Germans Bombard Along
Western Line and Deliver
Infantry Charges.
Paris. France, April 29. After a vio
lent bombardment of French positions
near Avocourt and near Hill No. 201
near Verdun west of the Meuse, Ger
man troops were massed for an assault
The war office report this afternoon
says this attack was prevented by
French artillery which dispersed the
troops.
A vigorous attack "as made on
French trenches east of Thiaumont
farm bat the Germans were repulsed
with heavy losses.
Germans Taken Prisoners.
The text of the statement follows:
"In the Artronne a surprise attack
executed Friday night north of Four
de Paris made It possible for us to
clean up some of the enemy trenches
and bring back some prisoners.
"On the left bank of the Meuse Fri
day at t oclock In the afternoon. Ger
man troops were massed In the com
municating trenches to the north of
mil No. 104 with the Idea of attack
ing our lines. They were at once at
tacked with hand grenades and pre
vented from coming out and were then
dispersed. Our artillery caused the ex
plosion of a depot of munitions In the
same region.
"During the night there was a gen
eral bombardment in this sector, the
fire being particularly spirited In the
regions of Avocourt, Esnes and Hill No
S94.
Germnnn Attack With Liquid Fire.
"On the right bank of the Meuse Fri
day afternoon, after a violent prepara
tory artillery fire directed against our
first lines, together with a curtain of
fire of great intensity, the Germans
delivered an attack against our
trenches east of Thiaumont farm In
which they employed flaming liquid
Cut down by the shells of our artillery
and the fire of our machine guns, the
enemy was repulsed with heavy losses.
At the same hour an attack upon our
positions between Duaumont ami Vaftx
also was checked by our fire. The
remainder of the night passed in rela
tive quiet on this part of the front.
"In Lorraine we repulsed a strong
recdnnotterlng party In front of the
wood of Banal, south of Domevre.
"In the Vosges a small German at
tack with grenades against one of our
trenches at La Chapelotte was effec
tively checked by our curtain of fire."
S TRY Tl
REBUILD SERI
Berlin. Germany, April 29. A report
on the work of reconstruction done bv
the central powers in Servla since its
occupation by them Is given by Hev.
Fr. Byellk, an apostolic vicar whose
field includes Servla. to the Overseas
News agency, as follows:
"The retreating Servian array had
forced the civilian population to fol
low the troops. The result was that
the roads was lined with men, wom
en and children dying from hunger,
cold and exposure. Those who re
mained In their homes also were on
the verge of starvation, while every
where epidemics )lke cholera, spotted
typhus, scurvy and dysentery threat
ened the population.
"The military authorities have es
tablished soup kitchens, rebuilt school
houses and founded work shopa A
majority of the children had not been
in school since the Balkan war. Ten
thousand orphaned children were
(Continoed on pace 8, Col. 4.)
I
WRECK
REBELS BATTLE
DESPERATELY
Fighting Is Incessant; Pari
Of the City Is In Flames;
Civilians In Hiding.
TROOPS COMMAND
REBEL POSITIONS
Downfall Of Sinn Fein Re
volt Is Mere Question Of
Time, It Is Believed.
DUBLIN. Ireland, April CS.Artil
lery is being used to shell down
buildings occupied by s.nn Fein
insurgents. A considerable district Is
thus under fire, the Inhabitants having
previously been warned to evacuate.
"""s on two streets are in flames.
Fighting continues.
Since Monday some of the chief posi
tions In the city have been In the bands
of the rebels. In defending these
strongholds against regular troops and
Irish nationalist volunteers, the rebels
are fighting with desperation for their
lives, which they know may be for
feited on account of treason.
Regulars now command all the rebel
positions, the fall of which Is merely
a question of time.
1'lrlnc Is Incennt.
The streets of Dublin were deserted
today, except for sentries and military
guards. Business was at a standstill.
!Vvuuuis peefted etnteuslSi.
nina curtained windows. Field guns
were barking, machine guns rattling
and rifle fire was pattering, apparent
ly from every quarter at the same
time.
Soldiers and rebels fired at each
other from street corners, wharves.
roofs and windows. Sentries with fixed
bayonets stationed every few yards,
shouted their commands to halt. Naval
guns Joined In and added to the deaf
ening gunfire.
LONDON, BNG., April 28. Upwards
of 100 persons have been killed or
Injured In Dublin, a correspondent1
at Belfast of the Evening News reports
in a dispatch filed Friday night He
says the rioters, hidden in houses, com
manding Important street Junctions or
covered by barricades In the streets,
are keeping up a constant fusillade.
Farts of the city are in flames the
dispatch says. Street fighting con
tinues and there is much looting. It Is
aid, bi t the reinforced military is
making steady progress. Most of the
shops are closed and passenger com
munication Is still cut off.
The list of casualties Includes many
civilians who, the correspondent says,
have been picked off by Sinn Fein
snipers for no other reason than that
they were believed to be loyeL
The cordon of troops Is being drawn
gradually but surely around the rebel
strongholds. The authorities are mak
ing every effort to avoid unnecessary
bloodshed and damage.
Witness Tells of Outbrenlc.
A graphic story of the situation in
Dublin, as told by a clergyman who got
away from the city by motor to Belfast,
Is printed In the Dally Telegraph to
day. The clergyman said there was
hardly a soul to be seen in the streets.
oi jjuunn. xne reoeis naa enirencnea
themselves In St. Stephens overnight
and on Wednesday morning, were blaz
ing away promiscuously with their
rifles. He was unable to discover at
what they were firing. AH around St.
Stephens Green are the houses of gen
trs judges, and leading governmental
officials, while at one corner of the
Green. Is the Shellburne hotel, the oc
cupants of all of which are virtually
prisoners.
At tho head of Grafton street. Dub
lin's fashionable shopping thorough
fare, the rebels had erected strong bar
ricades. Rows of motor cars, comman
deered in the streets the previous day,
were thrown across the road, shutting
off access to the Green.
Tito Killed nt Dublin Cnstle.
At Dublin castle, there were trades
of Monday's struggle. The entrance
was barred up. It was here that two of
the earliest fstalltlnn occurred, the no-
llceman on duty at the gate of the cas
tle and the sentry inside, both being
shot dead.
The offices o' the Daily Express 'and
the Evening Mail were early in the
hands of the rebels who utilized them
as points of ,vantage for firing at evory
man seen in uniform. A business estab
lishment on the opposite side of the
owed aiso was captured.
IlnnpHal Wrecked; Inmates Prisoners.
To reach the city from St Stephens
Green, the clergyman had to, proceed
by way of York street whence it was
'asy to go to the quays There was no
traffic south of Pour Courts, which
were still in the hands of the rebels,
who could be seen inside, wearing their
green hats. A hospital close by had
been completely wrecked and the in
(Contlnurd on page 8, Col. I.) i
Suffer Most
1 LIS
DUBLIN BUILDINGS
igenTobregon and
The above is a picture of Gen.
1 Paso and Juarez for a conference
Obregon is in the center. Gen. Gabriel
extreme left, in civilian attire.
CHILD MURDERER
ASKS OPERATION
Bissell Says Pressure on the
Brain Renders Him Unac
countable For Actions.
iiW3SFTedBi,
whose confession of the murder
of Edna Dinsmore, ten year old girl,
at Topeka, Tuesday, was given out
Friday night by officers at the state
penitentiary here, has written an ap
peal asking that an operation be per
formed on his head to make his condi
tion normal.
The statement as given out today
follows:
"A kick on the back of my head
by a horse caused an affliction at the
base of the brain, which affliction
causes me to be unaccountable at times
for 'What I do. I hereby appeal to the
officials of Kansas to secure for me,
at the earliest possible date, an op
eration for the purpose of raising that
portion of my skull now causing
pressure on my brain so that It may
be restored, if possible, to that of a
nomal man.
"Fred H. BIsBell."
Warden J. K. Coding promised to
have the operation performed.
AVns Ancry at Child's Slother.
Bissell. a Tooeka baker, confessed he
muraered the child last Tuesday, lie- I
neniment, causea dv me reiusqi ot xne
child's mother to marry him. prompted
the crime, manv nf thA riAtnlln nf
which were of a revolting character.
rne story of the murder was told to
J. K. Coding, warden of the Kansas
state penitentiary, and L. L. Kiene,
sheriff of Topeka.
Lured Child to Cellar.
Bissell is said to have admitted that
he lured the child to an empty house
by telling her ho would buy her some
books. After tying her and placing
her in the cellar, ho went out and
purchased some tobacco and a news
paper. Then 'returning to the house
he found his victim still alive, and
going to an upper room of the build
ing he set the structure afire From
a nearby corner, he waited -until the
fire companies arrived and then went
back to his father's bakery.
MEETING OF STATE CLUBS IS
CALLED AT GALVESTON JUNE 5
Austin. Texas, April 19. The execu
tive committee of the association of
Texas clubs has called a state club
convention, to meet at Galveston June
5, to last two days.
AH of the bonafide clubs In the state
ae authorized to Bend delegates to the
convention. Several Important ques
tions vital to the clubs, will be con
sidered at the convention.
the day ix co.cnnss.
Sennte.
Resumed debate on rural cred
its bill.
Elections committee agreed to
push Owen bill to amend corrupt
practices act
Honne.
Agricultural appropriation bill
consideration continued.
.;.
When You Do Not Get
Your Herald
call 2020. ask for the Circulation De
partment and make tho complaint
Serving so many thousands of
homes every evening makes occa
sional lapses possible.
Your complaint wil be welcomed
and the matter remedied.
If She Interferes With Our Policy Now
Alvaro Obregon, Mexican minister of war, and his staff of officers, now visiting
with Gens. Hugh L Scott and Frederick Funston over conditions in Mexico. Gen.
Gavira is on Gen. Obregon's left Gen. Jacinto Trevino, of Torreon, is on the
!JUAREZ HAPPY WITH THE MILITARY
nlrl EVERYWHERE
Gen. Obregon Stops the Very Fine Band From Serenading
Him When He Wishes to Sleep; Governor of Chihuahua
.TalksJEnglish and Was Educated in Hlinois; Uni
forms of Guard Came From New Jersey Town.
BT IT. M.
JUAREZ Is again happy, fer the old
town Is again military from bridge
to bull ring. Cavalry canters
through the dusty streets, officers
fafefr up and down Calle Comercio
to the clink of silver spurs and the
clank of swords while the horsedrawn
carriages are as busy as election day
carrying generals, colonels, captains
and privates between the special trains,
the cantlnas and the casas of the
senoritas.
,,.. Mnnr Military Trains.
Military trains shuttle back and
forth on the Mexican Central and Mex
ico North Western tracks while mili
tary automobiles dash up to the private
cars and away again. Old Juarez
thrives on this, for it has been her
steady diet for more than five years
now and It does not matter much for
whom her people viva so long as there
is someone In uniform to viva for.
interest now centers In the last
ir of a lone mtlitnrv train n tt.
car of
custom house siding between the
comercio street crossing and the .rail
road station. A canvas banner with
:w 'ers on a striped background
hangs over the guard rail of this prl
5i .ca.r a.Pd announces that It is the
biqulsiva. a new ear right from the
shops, which was named in honor or
Hacienda Slquislva. Gen. Obregon's
birthplace In the state of Sonora. This
car Is the temporary headquarters of
the Mexican war department, for It is
occupied by Gen. Obregon, the minister
of war for Mexico.
General lftis cu.i-
AU Friday afternoon this car was
me mecca for the crowds which ebbed
and flowed down the dusty right of
way from Calle Comercio. The gen
eral Was havlns- Tiln QlBafa f,.. f.ta
made no difference to the people who
tramped down the dusty path, stood
and stared at the car with Its clrcus
...? arneJ and fudged away again
satisfied. In the middle of the after
noon, the Juarez military band In new
khaki uniforms and freshly polished
instruments, filed across the flats from
the direction of the race track and
formed in a trapezoid alongside of the
private car. The drummer was all set.
the bass fiddler ready to saw away
on the strings, and the clarionets and
cornets and slide trombones were all
tuned for "the triumphal march" which
the band was to play. Just as the
diminutive director in beard and glass
Sfe.i. y"8 llke an understudy of John
intllp Sousa, was about to rap with his
baton for attention, a green baize cur
tain Of a Car Window wnn hrnahil aaM
and a command was given In sharp,
staccato words. Gen. Obregon did not
Wish a serenade at this time, for Gen.
Obregon was taking his afternoon
siesta and would the very fine band
move down the track a. ahnrt rti.t.n.
and serenade the estado mayor Instead?
The very fine band 16st no time In so
doing and the general returned for an
other half hour of sleep.
Speclnl Train.
The special train on which Gen. Obre
gon made the trip to the border Is made
up of eight cars Including his special
car which Is a combination reception
room, office and sleeping compartment
Next to it Is his old private ear, "Ce
laya," named for the battle in which
Gen. Obregon lost his arm and won
bis fame as the first man to decisively
defeat Villa. This car was his head
quarters in Celaya'and it was there
that he was taken after his right arm
had been torn away by a Villa shell.
The special car of the staff Is next
with cook compartment in one end
where the general's meals are prepared
his party
IN THE OLD TDWP
WALKER.
when the train Is traveling. The re
mainder of the train consists of day
coaches for the corps which guards
tho general on his trips. These guards
rweir red bands on their sombreros
which announce that they are members
of Gen. Obregon's bodyguard, corps No.
1, and the young boys are as proud
of these red bad tea of authority as
an American boy Is of his first long
trousers. They strut up and down tho
-allpnail t.ant kwI. tliAti. vln.. ....
railroad track carrying their rifles over
ineir shoulders ana tnelr baggy uni
forms hanging to them like scare
crows. The officers are trim looking
young chaps wearing uniforms made
In Red Bank, N. J., and they contrast
sharply with the squat little south-of-Mexlco
Indians, and big, gangling
mountain men of the north, who make
up the corps.
Gen. Gutierres Arrive.
As the crowd waited for Gen. Obre
gon to complete his sleep Friday after
noon. Gen. Luis Gutierrez's special
train, which had been delayed at Villa
Ahumada by a derailment steamed In
to the station and Gen. Gutierrez and
his staff marched up the main line
track to call upon Gen. Obregon. Gen.
Gutierrez wore a gray civilian suit,
a high, white Stetson bat and a pair
of blunt nosed shoes. He looks a lit
tle like Abram Gonzales, the first Ma
derlsta governor of Chihuahua, and has
the ruddy, burned complexion of the
man who lives out of doors in the
desert sun.
Governor a College Man,
With .him came Governor Ygnaclo
Enrlquez. the civil governor of the
state. He is a tall, trim looking young
man. who is surprisingly young to be
at the head or a state the size of
'Chihuahua. He wears the insignia on
his sombrero of a colonel and speaks
jBngJlsh perfectly, having attended the
University of Illinois for two years
prior to 110, when he returned to
'Mexico shortly before the outbreak of
the I first revolution. Governor En
rlquez seems, to be much In earnest
about his work and declared Friday
afternoon -that only those who went
through the civil war In the United
States can realize what difficulties his
state and country are experiencing at
the present time in their reconstruc
tion period.
Gen. Obregon appeared- on the rear
platform of his private car freshly
shaved, in a dark gray uniform whlcn
buttons close at the collar and armed
only with a gold chased fountain pen
in the patch pocket on his blouse. Gen.
Gutierrez.. Governor Enrlquez, consul
Andres Garcia aftd other officers and
officials of the Carranza government
entered the car with the minister of
war and a conference followed. Fri
day evening Gen. Obregon and his
staff walked over to the custom house,
where they received Gen. Scott and
Gee Fanston at the first formal call
which officially opened the border con
ference between the representatives of
the Mexican and American governments.
Herald His Only Paper
Panama, Ancon, C. Z., April 13.
Editor 1 Paso Herald:
I enclose herewith a money order to Veep The Herald coming to my
address. 1 remember the time, 14 years ago today, when we might have
wished for better news service in El Paso, but The Herald serves the purpose
now and is, in fact, the only American paper I subscribe for.
Yours very truly, i F. Elder.
Mexican War Minister and
American Chief of Staff
Have Meetings.
SCOTT PAYS FIRST
OFFICIAL VISIT
Obregon Returns the Call
And Plans Are Made
For Further Meetings.
FOLLOWING the exchange of
formal calls, the nt confer
ence between Gen. Obregon nnil
Gen. Scott will probably be held thin
afternoon In the Juarez custom
honie. FoIIoning the drpnrturr l
Gen. Obregon from hl -. i.
Scott nnnonnced thnt the prrlirainn
rles for the conference vronlil he-Tin
nt once and thnt the flmt mnr -r-ence
would fellow.
GEN. ALVARO (.BRKGciV M. , o s
minister of war, extended his lef '
hand to Gen. Hugh L. Scott chief
of the United SUtss artnr. mf Oe
Sra private car; OfnlSflsFSian
street station, Saturday morning, when
the Mexican war minister returned the
formal call which Gen. Scott paid Gon.
Obregon In Juarez Friday night.
Tho formal meeting of the two fight
ing men for the first time on American
soil was an impressive climax to a
brilliant military spectacle along the
streets of El Paso. From the interna
tional bridge to the Stanton street sta
tion. Gen. Obregon's automobile rolled
between donble lines of American troops
who presented arms as the Mexican
I Beneral and his party rode past
. TIio .&a,( .. . .
-..o uhquub "" American soil oc
curred at 10:2 after Gen. Obregon had
been met at the Santa Fe street brldse
by Gen. George BelL Jr, representing
Gen. Scott
Bands Greet Visitor.
t ?" ?ZeK2n stePPI from his au
tomobile at the Campbell street railroad
crossing, the massed bands of the sixth.
16th and JOth Infantry regiments
played "Columbia" and the guard of
er.und, tne P"vate r presented
w r?- l,e P? n- ObrKon, accompanied
J n" Je'to Trevino, commander of
the division of the northeast: Gen. Plu
tarco Ellas Calles. military governor
of Sonora; Gen. Luis Suterrez, military
governor of Chihuahua, and Carranza
consul Andres Garcia, walked to the en
trance of the private car. GrasDlntr the
hand rail with his left hand. Gen Obre"
gon swung himself aboard deftly in
spite of the missing right hand, and
W-?,Srle,ed,Vne P'atform by Lieut
aide. Michie, Gen. Scott's
The meeting occurred in the recep
tion compartment of the private car
where chairs had been arranged around
the sides. Gen. Scott was standing In
WaJTfiT when Gen. Obregon en
tered and the greetings exchanged be
tween the two fighting men were sim
ple and sincere. They shook hands. Gen.
Obregon extending his left hand side
ways from his body and grasping the
crippled right hand of Gen. Scott In
mutilated by a Moro bullet in a warm
grasp.
The Scot t-Fun ton Call.
Expediting the preliminary courte
sies that are attendant upon' the mili
tary conference. Gen. Hugh L. Scott
and Gen. Frederick Funston paid Gen
Alyaro Obregon a visit at 8 oclock
Friday evening, and. after remaining
an hour behind guarded doors, the two
American generals returned to the
American side. The American gener
als were received by Gen. Obregon In
the grben salon of the Juarez custom
house and the call was entirely social
in character.
The reception accorded the Ameri
can military dignitaries was Impres
sive. A cordon of troops extended
from the Santa Fe street bridge, over
which the American generals passed
to the custom house and along the line
of passage, trumpeters and drum beats
greeted the two automobiles. In the
first car was Gen. Scott Lieut CoL
R. B. L. Michie and Andres Garcia,
the Mexican consul in El Paso. In the
second machine was Gen. Funston.
(Continued on raze t. Column 3.)
