WHO DS SAFE?-
If fanitical postal employee perjure themielre to injure
a publisher busincit, will tney not also do the ume to
Jmmw aa 11 lva (tin fati fl 99 ulfK RomilK TT ft f
Thla It Number 2C2
u vw Jj ljv m vvsa a -v sj v fs
Thi rountry is now coined with Romish laundries hospitals, and fiaorie all in competition with legitimate
. : M'w :. .U. f.. f V,. Unnrv tVi rvi v u a fM the units rinm thit Dart its nuriM the clothin? IJC-
NACE
ClllCI I'l 1C, Wltai IS Uit ui mv mwuwij "-a , - , , " ,
tory that rewards its workers? It u hard enough for honest industry to iumve Rome aweatihopt operated, at
they are, bf meam of unpaid labor. But how can honert industry or businesa poaibly exist w hen a Romanized
r.i n.m mt tK.!r inmminr and outrointr mail ai it does thatof The Menace? What citizen dare feel se-
pOSIXi IJRCni Unit lUlUlulUK uu vuivui " - - --- -j - -
cure with hia private correspondence subjected to the meddling of Rome postorhce apiea and censor.
AHiia, lata
This is a
eonaiuon oi consequence to more uiu uic ami-iv
ROME AND DEMOCRACY
EOLD
FRAST
1HE MW
ioa; ? Haverhill, Massachusetts, Mob Vindicated the Past and the Present Spirit of the Papacy
Last week we pvt the story of
the papl riot ia Haverhill, Ma.,
illustrating so boldly and convinc
ingly the dominating spirit of the
ltontan chunh ia brr agelong
cracles war on freedom of re
ligiuu discuaaion. It was an im
pressive object leMon, showing far
otry and la lew opposition to our
constitution.
Failing in the attempt to lynch
Dr. lyyden, Ihe mob further ri
hibitcd its hatred of the funda
mental law of the nation and state,
and its routemnt for the municipal
ity of Haverhill, by destroying pub-
more eloquently man woroe me re- ilt. a,1(i private property and crimi
ult of parochial svhool education, tially assaulting Protestant citixena.
IJoman Catholic training and the iiut one thins remained to be
tvil iufluem of secret oath-bound j0De to give the nUhing touch to
Kxiitio wnun are seeling to suo-ijj picture.
One inntini live act on the part of
the mob that would epitomize the
true pirit of thia Old World power
tVat is warring on our democrat,
an thia finifhine touch was not
atitute the papal intern of govern
im-nt for the broad, tolerant and
noble freedom of our Protestant de-
nun racy.
It was a typicaiKand not an ex
...- . . I lU llll ill
rcptional illvutrauon, oeing lucreiy Wkntinf( win be seen from the
one of acorea of eihibitiona of "H n -at,1. f .n witnew
. . . . l iviiviua -
man LatUolic religious prejudice, .. w, n.rhin C.n.
intolersnce anJ natred or our im- , ... i4h
-rm r.iiliiif inn ihmt riaTa tnarkeil I
mint - ... M i i
"Aa esrgy ac out o rioca w irunn
the aucceiive atepa in Home's ram
paign to make America dominantly
ittiman Catholic.
Theee exhibitions of criminal law-
IcMneM have become so alarmingly
frequent ainoe the organisation of
the knights ot Uolumbua, tnat nn
lesn promptly checked, we ahall soon
have a nation-wide scandal not un
like the reign of terror and defiance
of the constitution and state law
Significance of tho Burning of the Effigy of Free
Speech-Protestant Democracy Replies to Rome
An Appeal to Patriots of Massachusetts
up oo tb telephone wire aaa purs!.
A rlarard on th efligy real 'iKtfc
HPELC1L' Hhouti from U crowd.
Dov mitk fr$4 ifetM' ware heard
frequealij."
With what startling fidelity did
thi mob instinctively rt fleet the
spirit of tht papacy throughout th$
rant.iktd centuries, nay more, rua
what rivid realism did it
here gin
fmnUn'i ia that ttntahle irt rhar
which marked the tragic days when act,ritie exhibition of intolerance
tUt other oath-bound aecret body. .,;,.. uHti.A -,. it. ;:. nt i,
.... . . 1 1 I w.- - r
the Molly wagiiiree, piacea an in-iJict Xy on yorember SI, 1015,
dehble stain upon the escutcheon oi hen. according to the authorized
J'ennoylvsnia. Uon,. correspondent of the llojton
Una Week we Wiah tO BhOW hOW p;tnl P.rHin.l OTnnnpll' nftlrial
in bold and pleasing contraat, Amer-!ftrB.n lha nnt none dewribel
i. an Protestant democracy answers the distingnished American scholars
intolerant Rom n(i rinA ring minintera who are
JMit belore aoing tms we wun w nUnif tlie Methodist Prca-
revert to one incKlcnt oi the papal b Urian itput and Lutheran
not. Irhnrrhpa ami i-hnnll in Rome a
On that wild night wUen Jlsver- riisstniFa nv SAT.W and
hill was Uken over ty uie B-nigiits TinEVFS WII0 ijn FULL
of Columbus and other "propa of I haDS SPATTKR RIJ().I)CAST
the hierarchy, the moD, not con
tent with trampling the constitution
underfoot, destroying municipal
property, wrecking homea of Trot-
etants and making criminal as
saults on law abiding citizens, in
retaliation for not being permitted
to lynch Dr. Leyden, these tnte sons
LIES AND CALUMNIES.'
Thla ektrartarlMtton la UVaa from tha
arWtlai nporl of Papa BMlirt'a worla a
Pvaa by thla authortMt eorraspnnaant of tna
llot. wrlttaa from Koma anar data of
Kovwnbar 17, ana pabllabad la U niot oi
Daracaaar If. lla.
The efligy of free speech in
flsmea and the howling mob like
1 1 I v liv ti sit vjrrucia mIVw uu wvu - t . . . ,f
of the church of the Inquisition dancing derviahea ahouting down
mrt an ... annram.W intar.1 tnth fret Speech, WM not Only in
eating to psychologist, aa .howing h-nnony with the intolerance which
Low unerringly a mob reflects the pe Benedict voiced last Novem-
dominant spirit or the institution " "Ul "UJJ V'"T
i niii I of the Roman Catholic brand of
it represents.
Psychology 9! tha Roman Mob
To the students of history and
psychology, alike, lew things are
more suggeativcly instructive than
loyalty to our flag and constitution,
but it was also a perfect echo of the
voice of Rome, sounding down the
agea.
As we read the newspaper story
the action of a mob as reflecting the of this twentieth century instinctive
master thought of the power behmd rotv,- papacy of yesterday
and today, another scene of Rome
actxon rose like a stately but
tragic dream before us.
We were standing again in the
presence of papal thought in action,
not now, however, a conglomerate
mass of knights and other "props of
the hierarchy" in lawless rioting,
no, we were in the presence of a
general council of the church of
Rome, the Council of Conttance.
The pope and emperor had given
it
Here reason, policy and all hypo
critical pretense are thrown to the
winds and amid the storm or primal
passion is Iben in naked aincerity,
the dominant thought or the com
rxteite mass in action. Here if any
where is to be found the real spirit
of the organization or inspiring
body to which these units give alle
giance.
Hence, how significant to the
student of history, how sinister to
the friends of free democracy, and fm guarantee of safe conduct to
yet how natural, we might ssy how and from the council, to John Huss,
inevitable, was the intolerance and one of the most illustrious profe-
hstred of our eonatirotional ruaran- th University of Trsgue,
tees of freedom of speech and as- nd one of the purest and most
embly evinced by that mob of (tj Christian thinkers known to
knighU of the hierarchy. the ages. He had been summoned
Its first idea was to defy the con- to nwer the charge of heresy. On
stitution and the municipality of arriving at the council, he was ar-
Tlararfcill Kw nravantino- fraarfnm nf rested SS a felon. Condemned and
speech and assembly. Next it burned to death. His noble and in
sought to lynch the man who dared spiring books were also given to the
to criticize Kome and show how, I uaiurm.
while our public schools made fori Here we behold the Roman Cath
tolerance and hospitality, the pa-olic church in supreme council,
Tochial schools and Roman Catholic adding the crime of perfidy to her
training made for intolerance, big-1 age-long, unchanging, implacable
Is There a Remedy?
Is titer an remedy for this aigYfeaaded Btalfeaaaiice ia Americas poat
offieeet Tier is. Tbera is a rented so powerful Uat DotKinf can resist it
so powerful that Uts proud aad arrogant Bocoiaa corporation, which eUs itself
a church, cannot cms bat Hi a rented y so geatis ia its operation that ia cannot
offend the meekest ntaa of honest purpose. Merely Americnnixs the American
postoSc system. Purge (rery official position ef Somanism. Your ballot,
wkieh fall as gently snowflaktw npoa the ocean ' surface, haws the magie
power of rlennsing official America from cellar to (arret. I'se your vote to
a patriotic purpose. Ton eannot now elect your postmasters, but the time is at
hand when yon wilL Bat even now, in thia present year, yon will elect a
president. Ton can elect a president who dickers for tho papist vote aad pays
fee it with poetofflces; or yon eaa elect aa American who believes ia fair play
and good gorernment Ton eaa elect tongreesiBsn, who will trade yonr birth
right aa free Americana fee papist support; aad yew eaa elect statesmen who
are true to American ideals aad principles, It ia p to yon. ,
hatred of liberty of thought, con
science, speech and pre
Trulv Rome never changes. 7
same hatred of full-orbed freedom.
which msrked the Council 01 Con
stance, of the so-called infallible
church in the year HIS, i aeen
in America in the birth-town
of the poet of freedom, blof
soming and bearing the same
Dead Sea fruit of intolerance, re
ligious bigotry and hatred of free
dom of thought an(T speeth, as was
in evidence in the elder dav and a
has ever been in evidence when the
Church of Rome has dsred to show
her undying opposition to liberty
of speech and press.
Is Haverhill Sorry?
We are told thst Haverhill is sor
ry. Certain it is that me rrotesiani
ministry has taken a firm and truly
democratic atand in favor oi remov
ing, as far as may be, the stain from
the fair nsme of the city Rome has
so disgraced. But it is equally
true that the executive authorities of
Haverhill have failed to take the only
step that can exonerate the city and
measurably lift the stigma which
Rome has plsced upon her. So far
the city officers have failed', to in
vite the lecturer to return under
safe conduct or adequate protection.
On the disgrace of Haverhill, the
Boston rranfri' follows its fine
editorial quoted in The Menace
last week, by the publication of the
following timely utterance.
"Haverhill in sorry," we are fold, for
the disgrace that it put upon the com
monwealth in its riot of Kumlay. It
ought to be sorry, and none the less so
(erauas the man whom it rioted against,
aad prohably would bate Ivnrhed if it
had sot its bands upon him, does not
stand to his guns. Ai the matter rests
now, the mob has won against free
speech, which eould hardly be vindicated
unless the original plan for the meeting
at the Haverhill t'itv Hall were carried
out. It is a little hard to believe that
the principle of free speech has come to
that pase in Maaancbnaetts especially In
the near neighborhood of the birthplace
of the man who said, "I will not equivo
cate, I will not eicuss, I will not retreat
a single inch, and I w41 he heard." The
suppression of Ievilea 'a sppenrance was
as much a manifestation of lawlessness as
the mobbing of (Jarriaon in the streets of
Boston oa Oct 21, 1A35, and deserves the
same rebuke that American history has
put upon that outrage.
Protestant Ministers Speak
The entire body of the Protestant
clergy of Haverhill, thirteen in
number, appeared before Mavor
Bart let t and Commissioner Hoyt
on April 7, to protest againut the
outrage, the ineflieiency of the po
lice and the equally disgrace fu
failure of the department of justice
to ferret out, arrest and punish the
ring loaders or the mob.
The Rev. Nicholas Van der Ty
acted as spokesman for the minis
terial IkxIv. In the courso of bis
address he thus voiced the senti
ments of the united Protestant min
istry of Haverhill :
"I speak in behalf aad by the author
(ration of the entire Proteataat clergy of
the city of Haverhill.
"We deplore, and we feel indignant
about the lawlessness which cast ran thia
city last Monday night. Our city has
been disgraced before the country, and
only the people of this city eaa remove
the disgrace which is ours today.
"We are not bigots. We have the high
eat charity for all who worship God in
their own way aad according to tho dic
tates of their own conscience.
"Bat we are also American eitisena,
and we are the accredited representatives
of the morals and religious interests of
this ritv. We bold inviolable the great
principles of freedom ef speech and free
dom of the press, subject to the lawn of
libel and incendiarism, after the fact,
which have been established by all the
people, aad which only the people eaa
abrogate.
"A mob haa o verms our city. Churches
have been hroken into and desecrated by
that mob. The homea of unoffending aad
innocent citixena have been stoned. I
some cases lives have been threatened
aad placed in jeopard t. We eannot for-
ajrt so lorg as ths mob is permitted to ne
victorious, and its leaders glowing ha the
fact that they havo trampled nader the
feet the most sacred rights of all our
people. We will not forget until the
principle of free speech has be
press! very vindicated by the law-abidmf
dement of this eosnmnnlty itself.
The attitude of the mavor, though
not surprising in view cf his former
action, was most discouraging to
friends of American democracy and
the upholder of the vital right of
free citizens.
The msyor doe not wih Dr.
Leyden to visit Haverhill at the
present time and thus lacerate the
senaitive feeling, of thee criminal
upholders of tho papal system who
hare defied the coiotitution, insulted
the state and city and committed
crimes sgainst property and person.
From his action It would seem
that he thinks it more important
to consider the w ishes of the leaders
of the mob, than to uphold the ma
jesty and dignity oi the common
wealth of Massachusetts in the only
war that it ran be upheld, by
promptly righting the urong, for
surely he does not believe that the
departments of Justice and law en
oi liaverlull and Mas-
forcement
sacUusctts are unable to protect a
citizen in the exercises of his consti
tutional rights. To dolav action is
to bow to the mob. To place crim
inal lawlessneas before the majctv
or law and order, is to admit tnat
these criminals are more powerful
than the municipal and state gov
ernment of Massachusetts. Is such
position satisfactory to the titi
xens of Haverhill, and the voters o
the state of Massaclnmtts This
a a quetion that must be faced, fo
it is fundamental in character six!
ffects alike the. integrity of free
institutions, the honor of the state
and the rights of every citizen.
Is Haverhill to yield to executives
ho plucc the wi-dics of the criminal
pholders of papal hatred of free
pcech before the stern demands of i
outraged law and order to maintain
at all hazards the fundamental
iglits of every free citizen as gusr-
ntcvd by our federal constitution
nd the law of the state? Are the
rioters, or the federal constitution
to receive first consideration?
That is the issue!
If the msjesty.of the law it to be
indicsted no time should be lost
in arranging for Dr. Leyden to re
turn to Haverhill.
In justice to Governor McCall,
be it said that he is reported to
have etsted that he ia ready to tlo
his part in protecting Dr. Ix-yden
and the Protestant people of Haver
hill who desire to hear him, from
those who would flout the laws of
Massachusetts and the constitution
of the Uuited Statea.
A valued correspondent writing,
front Haverhill, statea that though
Mayor Bartlett was born and raised
Protestant he ia today what
might be termed a near-Catholic,
having been consorting with Knights
of Columbus much of late. It
would seem to be another case of
old dog Tray, and certain it is he
has played the part of handy man
&
lor me papacy in a way uai musi
have met with the hearty approval
of his Roman friends, and it is
equally certain that all friends of
the constitution and believers in
rigid and impartial enforcement of
lawa against criminals should see
to it thst their i votes hereafter are
given .only to tiose who will pro
tect the nonor and integrity oi trie
municipality and the state, from
auch ehameful Barnacles as this re
cent exhibition of parochial school
and Catholic training, which Mas
sachusetts has given to the Amen
can people.
Our coiresponnent informs us
that the police were instructed to
use the velvet hand in case of dis
turbance, lhia confirms the re
ports published in the newspapers
and the action of the police would
indicate that such almost incredible
instruction might have been given
by responsible authorities.
Resolutions of Baptist Ministry
The Protestant clergy of greater
Boston have registered their pro
test against tha outrage in no un
certain tones. Perhaps the most
notable of these were the resolutions
adopted by tha Baptist ministers of
greater Boston cm April iota, lhey
were read by Professor F. L. Ander
son of Newton Theological Semi
nary and were, in rt, as follows:
"The plain, signiSraat aad nadisputed
fart is that aa Amertcss citisea nss
denied the right of free spewh. guaran
tees! bv the constitution of Maaaachu-
setts, and that ths authorities failed to
protect him. Thst ths mob n as ths re
sult of a premeditated plan apcra clear
from Ins fact that taa lecturer was not
permitted oven to brgin.
"Wo want to know abet her this sort
of thing la to continue, whether It is
poaaibls thst we are entering uos
era of 1 atholie tyranny m this alite,
whether henceforth in this state eriticium
of one church, and only one, is to be in
dulged in only at the risk of life and
limb. We demand of the cardinal that
he publicly stats his attitude and enforce
bis authority ia such a manner aa tnall
make Catholic mot impoasible in this
state. If the cardinal fails to accede to
our demand, we shall know how to ia
terpret bis continued science and shall act
accordingly.
'i demand that the public author!
ties bring to justice the leaders of the
mob aad that ths courts impose suitable
punishment. A failure here will prove
the constitution and lawa of Maaaacbu
setts mers srraps of paper, and wai for
ever delmr otr state, the nursery of lib
erty, from criticising thoae t nmmnn
wealths where Imching goes unavenged.
We say thia advisedly, for according to
the beliefs of both our fathers and our
selves, liberty of epeech ia more precious
than life.
"Hut more than this is required. The
onlv ad con ate reparation which can be
made for this public outrage is a publi
atonement. This, to our mind, should
take the form ef an arrangement
Mr. Lot den by the eitisena of Underbill,
by which he shall speak in Haverhill on
the topic already advertised, and shall
I protected in his rights by the city and
state at any cost. If he then trantgre-aes
the lsws against slander or Incendisry
speech, let him be proceeded againat I
due process of law."
Gov. McCall On the Issue
Governor McCall addressing the
Methodist ministers on April 10th,
said :
"We must keep free and open forums
of truth hero truth will lie analyted
from all points of view.
"A roan can adopt the religion which
he chooses and no church or state has snr
right to Interfere. There should alwavs
be separation of church and slate. The
basic principles of government cannot
eiiit upon any such union."
The most significant and en
couraging event that has followed
the papal riot, has been the break
ing of the conspiracy of silence
which Rome has been able to im
pose on tho Massachusetts press in
recent years in regard to religio
politico questions that the hierarchy
aid not wish discussed. ,
The Boston Journal has, for the
time being, opened its column to a
more or lesa extended discussion of
the religious question, and thus this
democracy paralyzing Filencc-t!ie
Roman boycott against freedom of
politico religious discussion in the
ureas has been broken. If the true
Americana of MassachusettH ai
with wisdom and unity this ad
vantage can be followed up nnd the
old vital freedom of the press rs-
established.
Earnest Appeal to Patriot!
To the pstriota of Massachusetts
the present is big with possibilities,
crisis has been resched which calls
upon every man and woman of the
commonwealth to join in redeem
ing the state from papal vassalage,'
and making old Massachusetts ome!
again the apostle of democracy and j
the invincible champion of freedom.
The hands on the dial mark an
other of those mighty struggles!
with Old World reaction, despotism)
and intolerance which from time to j
time register crucial hours in frec-j
dom's ceaseless battle for the larger i
life and nobler idealism. !
Duty again summons every child
of democracy to join the colors and
display anew the lofty patriotism
and high consecration to freedom
that marked the live of Adams,
Otis. Hancock, Warren and the in
trepid sons of liberty, which in the
elder day rendered possible, it not
inevitable, the birth of demo.-racv,
and that miracle of the eighteenth
century, the victory of thirteen
poor, little, weak, struggling col
onies over the richest and most
powerful nation of the earth.
Tha opportunity which mes to
noblt 'Uls but onct in a a time
ia knocking at the door of the chil
dren of the old Bay Slate today.
Be great! oh, sons and daughters
of Massachusetts! Rise to the high
est traditions of the grand old com
monwealth, forget all thought ol
self, all petty jealousies and rival
ries, Irt the spirit of Samuel
Adams. Patrick Henry. J lioinas
Jefferson and Benjamin t ranhlin
enter vnnr aonU. tlietl OU will lie-
conie "noble enough nnecrale
ife and all life ho'-l dtarot. to the
cause of liberty, and for the preser
vation of that fundamental democ
racy whoae very riteiicc i gravely
threatened bv the imwerful. per
fectly organized and financed !'
man Catholic political machine.
Never since the birth of this na
tion have free institutions been in
deadlier pe"l ban today, a hen
with a cactred press and a nation
wide Roman Catholic boycott, the
subjects of the pojM are boldly st-
tacking freedom of speech and as
sembly, freedom of religious dis
cussion, freedom of press, our splen
did non-sectarian free schools and
the principles of Mriet divorce of
hurch and Mate, as is seen in the
struggle to secure public appropri
ations for sectarian institutions.
What Is To Be Done?
First, let every patriot cease to
war on other patriots or patriotic
organizations. This criticism of
one another and antagonism be
tween organizations, if not the work
of Jesuits, is precisely what tht
Jesuits most leire. Ix-t every
hatchet lie buried and each member
of every society resolutely determine
not only to refrain from criticizing
any othrr society or patriot, but that
from this hour on he will heartily
co-operate with every citizen who
ia opposing jiolitical Romanism in
the land, and let him register a
vow to place this cause nltove all
Militicnl or party considerations.
Second, we would suggest that
each lodge appoint a committee of
two or three memlicr, broad
visione-d men who will act as repre
sentatives of their order on a fed
crated committee comprising a like
numlier from each of the other
societies in the city or congressional
district, to secure united action on
nil questions involving the vital
freedom of the people and the main
tenance of fundamental democracy.
In more than one American
municipality of late, such concerted
action has resulted in signal tri
umph for the cause of true Ameri
canism.
In one western city where a pro-
papal mavor ami a papal admitns
tration had been marked bv about
ninety per cent of the appointment
being" Romanists, and where general
Tammanyization of public affairs
had followed, true patriots, friend
of clean efficient and fundamentally
sound American rule, got together.
A committee was nppointod who
scrutinized all nominees, looked up
the record and antecedent of each,
nrenared a report after which a
circular was printed carrying a
strong appeal to keep religion and
politics separate and bearing the
name of each candidate and indi
cating his standing as an American,
papist or pro-papist.
Thia carefully prepared bulletin
waa circulated with the resun mat
in spite of a braien attempt to
tarry the election by the well known
Tammany method, the aroused and
truly patriotic citizenship won one
of the mot signul municipal vic
tories in the history of an American
city.
Home has been organized and in
politic for yearn. e i today en
trenched and ramified throughout
all department of gorernment.
And in and out of government,
through her Knights of Columbus,
her American federated societies,
her Jesuits, as well a the hierarchy
a a whole, she is battling against
the fundamental principles of our
federal constitution and the gnat
bulwarks of free institution.
THIS I'XITKH WAR ON DE
MOCRACY MUST BK MKT BY
I SITKI) AMKRICAN OPPOSI
TION!
The hour for federated action has
. i . I
arrived. 1 lie euctrss wnere u u
been put in force has surpassed all
expectations. The duty, the un
escapable duty, i clear. The polit
ical government oi .menca mui
lie rescued from the papal machine
in order that the federal constitu
tion be upheld and respected, law.
order and efficient government
maintained, the public schiol sys
tem preserved and the assault on
the principle of divorce oi rnurtit
and state by efforts to secure public
funds for sectarian purposea stern
ly resisted.
" Sona and daughters of the Old w
Bav State, never did human right
make more urgent call on souls of
noble mould than at this hour.
Never was an occasion more fate
ful than the present, let this "union
for victory" come as the effective
reply of aroused patriotism to the
pupal outrage at Haverhill.
"Those to whom knowledgn Is givea
stand in double trust.
Guardians of liberty and of the right.
No man cau flee responsibility.
Which surely as his shadow to bin clings.
Ye are the torch-bearers; stand Arm,
atand staunch.
Light all the coming new born century
With splendid blaxon in the name of
truth!"
Thomas J. Walsh, a Koman Catholic
and Knight of I olumbns, has entered the
rare as lemocratic candidate) fur nomina
tion for the oflice of railroad and ware
house, commissioner In Tennessee. WalsN
bsa ooned headquarters in Nashville mi'1
is appealing for supMrt on the pom-1
that he should hsve a chance st an oi'm-e
in which hi opponent. Col. Knlue. 1
fattened for the laat thirty yeara. IN
OT1IKK WOH1W. UK WANTS TKN
NKSSKE TO C.IVK A PAPIST A
C1IANCK. Catholics hse a riht'"
to hold office and it makes them euro
when men of known patriotism continu
ally defrat them in their polities! apim
tio'ns. Pspista forget that I nited Stat"-.'
citiiena hsve also the riht to vote f-
whom they will, and hcn a psie i
turned down he might as well take r
that he is either suspected of loing hv -V
ing in loyal allegiance to hia constitute
nd hia country or is incapable of prop
erlv (Wing the place to which be sspin-s.
The Ttoman Catholic political msihii e
is the moat conscienceless enemy wi'"j
which American freedom is menaced.
What About Mexico Now
As we go to press the following telegram la received from Judge Gilbert
O. Nationa, vice president of the Free Tress Defense League, and director ot
the Washington bureau of the league:
Washington, D. 0, April 21, 1916.
Papal intrigue In Mexico developing when the rree Press
Defense League handed President Wilson and every senator and
congressman the astounding disclosures in writing, of a world
conspiracy of the Roman Catholic hierarchy to overthrow the
Mexican government and re-establish itself in power by American
intervention, or aid by Americans, is now becoming apparent from
daily events transpiring.
Patriots were thrilled at the facta disclosed and the boldness
of the league in unmasking the conspiracy. The metropolitan
press ignored the matter. The Menace alone dared to give it
publicity.
Pacta disclosed are being verified. American and Mexican
papists who petitioned Dial to head the revolution and whose
names we assured the president we possess, are fulfilling their
promise of support. Twenty thousand men, armed, equipped and
distributed by them at strategic points are joining Diai as
promised.
The daily press now tardily admits that the papal hierarchy
is pushing the revolution exactly as the league stated. Thus the
hierarchy adds the crowning infamy to its long record of plunder,
degradation and ruin of Mexico. What will President Wilson do?
What wiU tht American people dot
