rjSiW,m UiTJg. ' ipjj
y
The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUiME IX.
ST. JOSPII, MISSOURI. SATURDAY, APRJL 20, 1910
NUMBER 30
"fcn
V
.r
1
F? v.
"
S
OF
AS SH0WN8Y STATEMENTS
The Directors Tell Then Side in a Com
munication Which is Signed
By
Then 'Prof. Whiteford Counters With
His Own Signed Statement Which
is Decidedly Caustic.
The public schools of St. Joseph are the property of the peo
ple the taxpayers who furnish the money, who vote the bonds,
and who keep up the educational system. They are not the prop
erty of the school board, who are simply selected as agents to
administer the will of the people who pay the taxes. They are
likewise nbt the property of the superintendent and teachers, who
are selected to conduct them for the best interests of the children
and the taxpayers. Therefore it is to be deplored when the public
schools the bulwark of liberty come into question regarding
their conduct, as is the case in St. Joseph at present. Both sides
to this unfortunate affair have submitted their statements and
both are entitled to be heard. Therefore in the interests of the
schools, both statements here follow :
THE DIRECTORS' STATEMENT,
"Editor News-Press :r The editorial
contained in your issue of the 21 inst.
requesting that the public be given the
reasons why the school board at its
last meeting, made a change in the
official staff of its officer?, upon the
theory thnt the people were entitled
to know the motives which actuated
the board as well as its reasons for
making the change, has been care
full considered by the undersigned,
who are Wholly responsible for the
I action taken.
"We heartily agree with you that
the people are entitled to know. The
proper method of imparting that
knowledge, however, and avoiding an
unseemly controverby over the action
of the board in making the changes
is a cjuestion of 'as much importance
as the question of making the changes
in the first instance. Had we an
nounced beforehand what we intend
ed to do and had given the politicians
and friends of the one opposing mem:
ber time to have rallied their forces,
we would have had the same dis
graceful proceeding over the appoint
ment of a superintendent that we had
twelve years ago when Mr. Whiteford
was elected. It was to avoid this un
seemly and demoralizing controversy
that we first determined what was the
proper and right thing to do, and then
did it promptly.
"We have acted from no selfish or
political motive, but solely in the In
terest of the patrons and children of
our schools and the betterment of
school conditions. We felt, and still
feel, that we cannot afford to be
drawn into a controversy over the
election of a superintendent and there
by naturally create a division of public
opinion and sentiment which would
In any wise militate against the influ
ence, effective work and efficient man
agement of our new superintendent.
Why They Didn't Tell
"What private corporation could
long succeed if every time Its board
of directors, acting in good faith and
in the interest of the corporation, ap
pointed a new general manager, some
of the stockholders should embroil the
corporation In a bitter row and thus
destroy the influence and efficiency
of the new executive? The financial
loss to the stockholder, If not his good
common sense, prevents him from
taking any such course, and yet some
of the people of St. Joseph, by Incit
ing such a controversy, are liable to
Involve not only themselves but their
.children In a 'loss much greater than
any that can be measured In dollars
and cents. This is the paramount
reason why we went about the dis
charge of our duties to the public
quietly and systematically.
"First, to establish a new system
of control or management in which It
would be impossible for politics to
Jiave any place, since politics and
,vnivrit cannot exist together In one in.
stitution, a system based upon merit
necessarily" and effectu-i'y excludes
politics, viz: To divide the adminis
tration of the school affairs Into three
departments, education, finance and
maintenance. To place at the head
of each of these departments a thor
oughly competent and experienced
man, In whom we could place confi
dence and hold him responsible dl-
(Continued on Page 2)
row
Fo
ur.
PROF. WHITEFORD'S STATEMENT
Reply-life to the statement submit
ted over the signatures of the four
members of the school board Orestes
Mitchell, Samuel I. Motter, Dr. F. P.
Cronklte and John E. Dolman pub
lished In yesterday's issue of The
News-Press, giving the board's side of
the action that has stirred the public.
Superintendent Whiteford offers the
following communication:
.if ii. i. .
Lditor News-Press: Since my name
and professional standing has had to
be discussed in public, there are some
statements in the article issued by th,
board of education in yesterday's
News-Press that I feel In duty bound
to correct. They ask, 'What private
corporation could succeed if, when the
board of directors appointed a gen
eral manager, some of the stockhold
ers should object to the method of so
doing?' I reply that such board would
not meet secretly and prevent the
other stockholders from havlni: a
voice in the matter. Furthermore, the
SCllOOl district is not n nrlvnto nnr.
poratlon. but belong to the nennlp
The nubile is nntltlml tn l-nm,- Wv
business is transacted. The first thing Just across tne Hne m ulnlon county,
the new board did was to go into blds fair t0 have nis leAt as PresWcnt
executive session, and it has had a of the United Statea for a day
number of meetings all held In the elualled' because as March 4, next
same manner. 'ear- falIs on Sunday. Henry M. Rose,
"Again, they say that there Is a' assistant secretary of the United
lack of co-operation and discipline and States senate, flsures out that no mat
that I have admitted as much. This ter WD0 may be cnosen lhe next pres
Is a gross mistake. Out of 375 teach- ldent' Robert LansinS. ,f tnen eecre
ers there may be a few not In sym- tary of Ktale' w,n be President ot the
pathy with mv Diana. Teacher nnr. United States pro tempore for about
sionally need discipline the same as
students, and some are no doubt dis- followed.
gruntled. especially Just now. but the The Presidential term and the ses
rank and file, yes, 99 per cent of the 8,on of congress will terminate on
whole force, are as loyal and devoted Sunday. March -J, 1917. The inaugu
to duty as anv sunerlntenrtent .,i,i ration of the new president, accord-
wish. In fact, our corps Is well known
throughout the state for this spirit.
The same will apply to the children.
A poll of the teachers on this issue
would certainly bring out the facts,
and I invite the board to take such a
step at once and give out the result.
The High School Hours
"I have admitted that conditions at
Central high school have not been har-
monlous, nor have they been satisfac
tory to teachers, pupils or myself, nor
to the board of education. The cause
of this was brought about by the long ' ne,d tne chIeI mce : the na,lon'
hour experiment, started In the fall, I
which proved unsatisfactory. Before HOW IT ACTS
the Christmas holidays the board dl-'
rected the high school committee, the The Way That the Price of Gasoline
principal and myself to change the Influences John
plan about which there was so much Hesse
discussion. I submitted a schedule , i
for a short hour which wbb objected ' The price of gasoline has much to
to by the others on the ground that do with the fellow who owns the car
they wished to see the experiment and also with the friend who was
which had been started tried out. until lately the recipient of many a
They wrote up a revised schedule for free Joyride for now, with the soar
the Central high school which was put ing advance that Uncle Jawn D. has
in force and which has not proven placed on the Juice (because he
satisfactory. I then wrote thS sched- wants to endow another college), the
ule for tho Robkloux high school, friend who formerly drove around and
changing the long hours. Since Its BaVe you many a pleasant spin has
adoption the number of tardles and now ceased this gentle and exhllerat
truants has decreased decidedly and ng amusement.
the spirit of this school Is of high I ujst for Instance, take John Hesse,
order. Mr. Motter insisted that the tho diminutive member of the Hesse
high schools have at least an hour Dulldlng Material company. John owns
and fifteen minutes noon, which was a flne five-passenger touring car, and
not .in accordance with the views of (his is the way that the price has
the rest of the committee, as It would affected his giving his friends free
mean extra carfare going and coming. ' joyrldes. Here are bis "gradual re-
- auctions :
(Continued on Poe Three) with gasoline at 13 cents a gallon:
THE TWISTING STAR-
Will Do Anything In Order
Bolster Up the Cause of
Teddy the Noisy
to
This paper has always maintained
that the Kansas City Star is without
principle, without morals, and only
for what that paper sees that is good
for The Star and not for the people.
It is a pood thing for the general wel
fare that the public is finding out that
The Star is for what is for The Star
alone Its personal ends; therefore it
Is refreshing to rend this from the
I'lattsburg Lender, which says:
The Kansas City Star for years
could say nothing toe good about
President Wilson. Now it is engaged
In making him look n small as pos
sible because It sees, it thinks, a
chance to boost Roosevelt. Hiding
behind the mnsk of Independent Jour
nalism The Star gains the ear of
many good Democrats and voters of
other persuasions; but The Star Is
the most partisan of papers. It has
lit, own party, and, whatever else it
may pretend, The Star serves Its
party with zal. There Is hnrdly an
issuti of that paper which does not
contain an effort to minimize the
president and all that he stands for,
and to magnify Roosevelt. Roose
velt's coarse bluster, his insane ego
tism, his wild insinuations that he
would have done so and so without
specifically saying what he would
have done, his Intimations that Wil
son has neglected some great and
plain duty without stating what duty
all these things arc played up by
The Star in a manner to Injure the
president and to advance Its favorite
Roosevelt. While we like to read
The Star for its general news service,
we cannot avoid the feeling that Its
political news is traitorous to the
truth. President Wilson's course is
that of a gentleman, a scholar, a
statesman who wants to, and knows
better than Roosevelt does, how to
serve the best interests of his coun
try. Roosevelt's conduct is that of
, envy toward the man who won the
' presidency away from him. FllM
wltn nate ne Pes aDut filling the
, newspapers nn mo country wiui
false views of the president and in-
rntiatlnsr himself Into the cood will
of .every discontented element.
' To avenge himself on Wilson,
T " h , n " ,' la
Republican standpat organization. The
1 Star will follow him there and will
! defend everything Roosevelt does, no
matter how it differs from that paper's ,
views in the past. !
MAY EQUAL ATCHISON
Secretary Robert Lansing May Be
President for One Day, as Was
the Missouri Senator
United States Senator David R
Aicnison, wno was raiseu near uuwer,
twenty-four hours, if precedents arc
JnB to custom, will tr-.ke place Mon-
W arcn 5. un-ier a provision o.
law enacted In January. 1886. In case
there ,s no President in office, the
secretary of state Is first designated
t0 act untn tne offlce ,s agaln ,esa,ly
fl,led' Under tnls Provision, from
noon ot Sunday, March 4. next, until
the President-elect has taken the oath
of offIce' the day foowlnP' Secretary
Lading will be "acting president of
the Unlted States" Never before haB
any secretary oi siaie mus leuur,.-
,;'Ganie and take a spin with us, old
man. We're not going far; Just a
hundrfd miles or so, if the roads are
good."
i Wift. gaolino at 18 cents: "Do
'glad to have ou in tho enr with us
Sunda We're going out lor a little
fifty-mile Jog."
I Wltfi gatoline at 23 cents:
I "Gqt time to go down to the lake
and bifk with us in the machine?
With gasoline at 30 cents:
"Lib to ride around the block a
coupl of times In the car? Jump In.
Wo,won't be gone over ten minutes."
With gasoline at 40 cents and up:
"We'rt going to roll the car out to
the Vurb and sit in it for the air a
while. Will you Join us?"
COL. M'INDOE TONIGHT
Will Meet With the Citizens at the
Court House on the River Im
provement Matter
Col J. F. Mclndoe. United States
engim r in charge of thjs section of
the Miouri river, will be In St. Jo
seph tonight and will address a mass
meeting of the Interested people of
St. Joseph and vicinity at the court
house at 7:30 tonight. Col. Mclndoe
comes here at the request of Col. W.
J. O'i'onnor and the committee of
which he Is the head, which has in
charge the work of preventing the
river from tutting into Lake' Contrary,
and which, should it occur, would ren
der valueless thousands of acres of
the best land in this county, for the
river will, if it breaks into Contrary,
follow the ojd channel of former lakes
down to a point opposite Fort Leav
enworth. Col Mclndoe will tell the meeting
how the work cah be performed and
stop i he present and future encroach
ment with the $75,000 which Congress
man Rooher will secure from the gov
ernment, and the like amount which
the ciiizens will raise.
'IT IS YOUR MOVE"
The Retort Courteous as Editor Dodge
, ..-of the Milan Standard
Utilizes It
If there is one editor in Missouri
who is not afraid to speak out in
meeting it is T. A. Dodge, who so ably
conducts the Milan Standard. His
contemporary assailed him in a lato
fesue, and in The Standard of Friday
Editor Dodge tells him about it this
a :
The only answer a gentleman can
gie to that I In words! and keep In
the bounds of decency. Is to say, that
if Reeves and his Ilk" go to heaven
then hell would be pre'ferable to all
decent citizens.
Now, Charlie, we have always liked
you personally; our business dealings
with you have been pleasant and sat
isfactory. We have answered just a
few of jour insulting thrusts at us,
and we have refrained from attack
ing your character from a wet and
dry standpoint, from a moral stand
point and other standpoints too nu
merous to mention, and we do not
want to indulge In personalities, yet,
if we were going to select a human
being that we know is most vulnerable
of attack morally and hypocritically,
you would be our first choice among
all ot our lifetime acquaintances. But,
If ou Insist that there shall be a
"washing of dirty linen" and a char
acter Investigation by publicity, we
sa to you cheerfully, and with no
fear of the result:
IT IS YOUR MOVE.
ROY RUSH ANNOUNCES
A Well Known Young Democrat Will
' Make the Race In the Third
Legislative District
The many friends of Roy Rush of
the live stock commission firm of
Davis & Son, are pleased over the
announcement that he will make the
race for the Democratic nomination
for the legislature In the Third dis
trict, which is made up of the First,
Second and Third wards of the city.
He haa entered the race actively and
will make a thorough canvas of the
district.
Rush is one of the well known
young Democrats of St. Joseph, and
has a host of friends. He is well
versed in public needs and especially
those of the district which he aspires
to represent. Ho Is of that type of
man who are sound legislative timber.
DOWN MISSOURI IN A BARREL
Capt. Henry E. Lewis of Omaha ex
pects to arrive In St. Joseph early In
May via the "barrel route." Many a
man goes out of St. Joseph by the
barrel route, but Lewis Is about ready
to embark In a specially constructed
steel barrel, and will float from Omaha
to New Orleans. While in St. Joseph
he expects to deliver a lecture.
'AS 15. THOMAS C,
FINCH I0L0 STORY
It Was So Romantic That She
Could Not Resist Giv
ing the Details
ALL CAME ABOUT
INSIDE OF A WEEK
The Story of the Courtship and Mar-
rlage of Mr. Thomas C. Finch and
Mrs. Nellie D. Byrne, as She Told It
to a Reporter, and the Way that He
Printed It In the Kansas City Star
and The Times the Day After the
Wedding
"This," said the voice, a bit tenta
tively, "Is Mrs. Thomas C. Finch."
"Yefe?"
"Mrs. Thomas C. Finch. I'm not
used to the name yet. I've only been
Mrs. Thomas C. Finch since Monday.
Really, I didn't expect ever to be Mrs.
Finch, but I am, and It was so roman
tie I thought perhaps you'd like the
story. Can you send a reporter one
of your best reporters to the Kup
per hotel?"
The hotel clerk directed the re
porter to Room 325. His knock was
answered by a vivacious woman in
tailored old rcx-e.
"Yes, I am Mrs. Thomas C. Finch.
No doubt jou thought it a little odd,
sending for you this way? Probably
It Is, but It's all odd, all unusual the
wedding and the things that led up
to it."
Just Couldn't Disappoint, Him
She fingered a modish hat, swathed
in one of those filmy things they tie
about the hat and under the chin
when they go motoring. The hat and
the gauzy beribboning were old rose,
too. '
"It was like this," she continued.
"I came to Kansas City from St. Jo
seph, my old home, Monday, to visit.
I hadn't any more intention of mar
riage than than you have."
She smiled again. The mirror showed
the reporterial countenance emulating
the old rose hue.
Mrs. Finch begged pardon.
"I might hae known," she ex
claimed, "a conscientious young man
they told me you were conscientious
would be thinking of marrying.
"But really, I wasn't. I just came
here for a visit. But Mr. Finch was.
He came here to be married. We
spent Monday evening jtogether, and
then he told me he had a surprise for
me. I was delighted, of course. I
had visions of a new hat, or or "
One of Mrs. Finch's feet, encased in
a new shoe of old rose, lightly tap
tapped the floor.
"Then," she resumed, "he pro he
told me what the surprise was. You
wouldn't be interested in just what he
said, or in just what I said, though I
guess I did tell him it was sudden, for
it was. But he had the license and
everything arranged, and I couldn't
bear to disappoint him. So we were
married."
Mr. Finch? A Deputy Sheriff
Not to be Inquisitive or anything
like that, but just as a matter of
routine Information, what was Mrs.
Finch's maiden name?
"Nellie D. Byrne. No, Hablg. Byrne
Was my first husband's name. George
A. Byrne of Kansas City. I was di
vorced two years ago. The late "Peter
I Hablg of St. Joseph was my father.
I That is, I was his adopted daughter.
I inherited practically all his estate
rental property In St. Joseph mostly."
And Mr. Finch? Who was that Is,
about the romance?
"Mr. Finch lives in St. Joseph. He
I Is a deputy sheriff. We've been ac
quainted only a few weeks. That's
the romance. He became interested
in me recently when some people,
whose motives I won't discuss, had me
brought before the county court for a
hearing on my sanity.'"
Mrs. Finch laughed, not at all vin
dictively. Apologetically the reporter Inquired
the outcome of the hearing.
"What was the verdict? Why. I'm
here, am I not? And I'm Mrs. Thomas
C. Finch, though I did forget the name
of the clergyman."
She was drawing down the brim of
the old rose hat and tying the silken
old rose veil.
"Was not that," she said, "an un
usual romance? Maybe you can write
it up to make a few lines in the
paper."
The reporter jmruod at tho door.
I forgot io ask how you mot Mr
Finch"
I didn't meet him," said Mrs
Thomas C. Finch. "Ho was the man
who arrested me when they tried me
on an insanity charge." Kanas City
Times.
IT IS NO USE
Not Worth While Trying to Copy
Roosevelt, for It Just Can.
not Be Done
Pittsburgh, Pa.. April 27. The "truth
about preparedness" tour which start
ed from New York ten days ago and
has been making "one night stands"
through Buffalo, Cleveland, Detroit,
Chicago, Minneapolis, Dos Moines.
Kansas City, St. Louis and Cincinnati,
wound up here last night. Congress
man Oscar Galloway of Texas and
Congressman Sherwood of Ohio were
the principal speakers. Galloway said
President Wilson wal makin? a great
mistake in "trying to copy after
Roosevelt."
"You can't copy Roosevelt," he said
"Even if t were worth while, you
couldn't do it. Roosevelt is sui gen
eris (literally translated, the only
one of Its kind; inimitable to the freak
line). He is to the ordinary presi
dential candidate what a two-headed
calf Is to Its -fellow calves. He Is to
be admired, yes, but not to be emu
lated." And this is the way that they are
now talking about one whom within
four months they will be calling the
greatest man and greatest statesman
on earth. Mark the prediction.
DENOUNCED WM. SUNDAY
Kansas City Union Labor Votes to
Have Nothing to Do With His Al
mighty Dollar Propaganda
Kansas City, April 26. Billy Sunday
was denounced at the meeting of the
1 industrial council at Labor Temple
yesterday afternoon, and a motion
i recommending that members of or
ganized labor organizations be urged
' to attend "when possible" a labor
meeting which Mr. Sunday will hold
was voted down.
The motion cau&ed spirited debate,
advocates of it urging that there was
no intention to coerce men of different
.religious opinions into attending the
I Sunday meeting, but asserting that, as
the tabernacle was built entirely by
I union labor and as Sunday was a
, warm advocate of the labor move
ment, he should at least be given a
hearing.
Opponents of the motion declared
Mr. Sunday was "speaking for the al
mighty dollar" and "trying to put the
country on the bum by prohibition."
"EVery time we indorse Sunday we
, Indorse prohibition and vote to throw
1 thousands of working men out of a
job," said one delegate.
I The resolution was voted down by
an overwhelming majority.
DISSOLUTE HENS LAY BEST
The Alcoholic Hens Did Better Than
Their Sisters Who Wore the
White Ribbon
Dissolute roosters that come home
staggering at dawn, with maudlin
crows of "hlc-a-doodle-do," and hens
that soak up ether highballs really are
better parents than teetotaler chick
ens. I This discovery of science, laid be
fore the annual convention of the
American Philosophical society, as
tounded that learned body.
Raymond Pearl, biologist at the
Maine agricultural experiment station,
told of experiments made at the sta
tion upon 70 chickens. It was found
that the drunken chickens grew fat
ter than those which were denied op
portunity to dissipate, and in a year
the alcoholic hens averaged 184 eggs
apiece, while their white ribbon sisters
averaged only 181.
The rummy roosters became lazy
and quarrelsome, but otherwlso were
In excellent condition. Philadelphia
Inquirer.
THE FORD AND JESSE JAMES
Postoffiee Inspector W. B. Stoner,
Mien he arr'ved from Maryville, Sat
urday night, said to a friend, in speak
ing of an automobile trip that he had
Just completed:
"By the way, who was the first man
to be killed in St. Joseph by a Ford?"
When the necessary number of
guesses had been Incorrectly given,
Stoner smiled and said:
"Jesse James."
