THE BARRE DAILY
TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 39.
BARRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, APRIL 29, 191 C.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
DUBLIN
PARTLY
ON FIRE
Report to London Newspa
per from Belfast Says
That Sections of the City
Are in Flames and That
: Kept Up
.. 100 CASUALTIES
NOW REPORTED
SIEGE
OFKUT
WINS
which Poland, Alsace, Belgium and Ber
bia liave not suffered at the hands of
Germany? And I may add also that
portion, of tho noil of France, her old
friend and oily, which is in the hands of
Germany?
'What hit been tho word of Germany
but the suppression of nationality, of
Hiippression of all things for which
tho suppression of all things for which
for centuries Ireland has struggled, the
Victory of which Ireland has achieved.
Take the case of Delirium. Has there not
Ihm'H there the name ruthless shedding of
blixd of the priests and the people tlwt
is part of Ireland's own history t Leave
tho question of principle out and consid
er the question only of the mere inter
ests of Ireland herself. What did the
situation demand T
"Neutrality f That was impossible.
ITosility to the just cause of tho allies!
Is there a sane man in Ireland who does
not see that this meant the drowning of
Ireland's newly won liberties in Iriidi
blood? Be this view right or wrong, this
was tho opinion of an overwhelming ma
jority of the Irish people. It was the
....:..! l;.i. ii.. j. T- t. u:
. , y T opinion which iiiuusanus 01 jrisn auiun-ra
Street -Fighting IS lieing have sealed with their blood by dying in
the cause of the liberty of Ireland and of
the world.
"But. anvhow. it was the opinion of
Ireland and surely I need not argue the
principle especially with anybody who
has professed himself a home ruler thatloriT Pp 1? Y'D'F'nTTTfW
the policy of Ireland must be decided by Iv&M2' XjAnUUlllKJlX
Ireland herself.
".Millions of our people In the United
States and elsewhere whose generous de
votion helped us so largely to win our
victories for the motherland of our race
BUSINESS AMD ELECTION.
Occupied Attention of the Central Labor
Union Last Evening.
Considerablo routine, business was
transacted, and oflieers were elected at
I the meeting of the Central Labor union
I last evening, President Thomas Nichols
being in- tho chair. After the regular
MAY JOIN IN
VILLA SEARCH
business had been disposed of, new dele- YjnTriV,pr nf fjirmrA
gates were received from the Granite lNUITlDer 01 vaiTanza
Troops Arrive South
Cutters union, the Machinists , the link
ers', the Quarry Worker' of Granitevillc
and the Lumpers' union.
'resident Nichols appointed Alfred
Malnati as judge and i J. Kimball and
John T. Calaghan as tellers of tho elec
tion. Alexander Ironside of the Granite
Cutters' union was unanimously elected
president. John S. MacDonald of the
Polishers' union was nominated for vice
president, but was excused, and C. R. Hall
of tho Carpenters' union was elected to
the position. Cieorge Maker of the Tvpo
of Gerrera
British Forces Under Com
mand of Major-General
Charles Townsend Were
Forced by Lack Of bUppllCS 0f the Granite Cutters' union was elect
.i- e U rr.,L-Jpd- J- Houghton was elected treas-
IU OUllcuuti iw imn- urer, When W. J. Kimball of tho Engl
ish Army
COL. DODD'S TROOP
RETURN TO BASE
graphical union was named for secretary United States MaV Urge SL
but was excused, and Angus MacDonald I .
Plan of Concerted Ac
tion in Pursuit
Rioters, Hidden in Houses SttTC That Failure, the
Prominent Ireland's right to toose her policy for
ncers' union was nominated for doorkeep
er, he asked to be excused, and John T.
Callaghan was elected to that position.
Other officers were chosen as follows: I Field headquarters at Namiquipa, April
Executivo board, the president and sec- 28, via wireless to Columbus, X. M., April
reiary, loge.ner ww im v' BU,lor ! 29. -A column of American cavalry un
fna I iimmira' nninn A ft It sit 1 HifarWs nf
TJV tT71?T? r!l?niTVnti,n the Truckmen's union, and L. A. Carnen. Qer Lionel ueorge A. uwxa, wmen lor
""Y"" ter of the Typographical union: auditors, 8'x W . ,n P?u,n8 large band
C. J. Pillsbury of th. Typographical un- . 0Bn"'" unae' T, aiUf
ion, F. W. Suitor and O. X. Philbrick of r T : , . , """"
the Carnenters' union. r' """"" "c,c "T"'"" wunj
After the officers had been installed, it
to have returned to their base at Mian-
rAM mm nnifitliv
viii-..aiiU.n6 hprg)!,f That doftrine hg, conte8t-
Strrots Are Shooting ed on'y y t,ie vwy "ame men wh0 t0
oireeis, are ouuutiug day have tried to make Ireland a catNs
r..rM T arol Piviliane J paw of Germany.
vvrii , "in all our long and successful struggle
Woll no QrlHior Cnrlf to obtain home rule we have been
,n thwarted and opposed by that same sec-
Uprising Failed
... t.L. ..n . it t in. 4Ile nanuit, nanus are saia 10 oe
Imprisoned British, VhO the matter of arrangements for the Ver- Ptically dispersed, a number of their
tn , t t c mont Mt "ranch, American federation .. . .. " ,.'.... TV-'..- V. V.. i.. "i..
liaa leen UOOpea UP Oince of Labor, convention in August, and also
the matter of a picnjn next Labor day.
December, Were Obliged
to Capitulate
ABOUT 300 "LISTED" PEOPLE
tion. We have won home rule not
through them, but in spite of them. This
wicked move of theirs was their last
blow at home rule. It was not half as
much treason to the cause of the allies
Are Barred from Dealing at Saloons,
Which Open Monday.
To-night the board of license commis- minister, and Generals Scott and Fun
city hall to consider I ston, representing the United States, it
lief that Villa is dead. Four trainloads
of Carranza forces are detraining south
of Gerrero to-day and it is reported that
they are intending to co-operate with
the Americans,
Washington, D. C, April 29. On the
eve of the conference at Juarez be
tween General Obregon,' Carranza war
rotary-treasurer, Harold P. Hinmans di
rectors, H. J. M. Jones of Jones. Bros.,
James T. Man-Ion of Murrion & O'Lcary,
James Brown of the Dewey Column &.
Cutting Co., William A. Murray of the
Harrison Granite Co.. John A. Cross of
Crows Bros., North Held, and Stephen R12
ti of Eizzi Bro. Threo olliee assistants
are in the employ of the association.
GETTING ALONG WELL
London, April 29. Parts of the city of as treason to the cause of home rule
Dublin are in flames, an Evening News
dispatch filed at Belfast last night says.
Street fighting continues and there is
much looting, it is said, but the rein-j
forced military is making steady prog
ress,
i-imuua, iiu vsu. . gioners meets at eitv hall
Townshend, commander of the British gorne 0f the less important details that became known here that the American
forces besieged at Kut-el-Amara by Turk- enter into the legalised sale of liquor, olhcers had been instructed to attempt
ish forts since last December, has sur- Monday morning Barre becomes an oasis to work out in detail military plans
rendered, it was officially announced this j" a A?,? f.r the P"to? of the Mexican and
l.: f . n . .. , j c- I ""f mo iui-ii . ..imMn- anwnran troops in me uisnersiiiK oi
tlua fact-that Germany plotted it. afternoon. ... sex. although it is anticipated that sev-k.,iifc han,! iM..Hin . . UvUinn of
Announcement was made yesterday era I firbt and second class licensees m northern Mexico into spheres of activity
I ii.:.. : .. c .. : :u ... I .... -
that an attempt to relieve the he- " l lur anuuB iwun, wm w u- for tbe two forces.
a vessel i , T i , .. i
i. in nt. live iiifinnuw wiiric uaun
"This attempted deadly blow at home!
rule carried on through this Beetion is
made more wicked, more insolent, by
far as Germany's share "in it is concerned
it is a German invasion of Ireland as
Most of the shops are closed and """1".!. as w1011'. a cynical as Germany's
- ' ,-,,Hn i,.. hn JinTasion of Belgium. Blood has Ix-en leaguered forces failed when
ImcU,i w - hed and if Ireland has not be
been reduced loaded with minnlies rounded In the Ti
ff'. J. l.t t r a,u- f t!'e 8arae,horv,ror8 of '"n hpr gris river four miles east of Kut-el
A dispatch from Ireland this afternoon slaving people, her massacred priests and .
I... j - ..AAH I her xUihitfiA rnnvpnla if la nn 4 I Amara,
says tnai nacKviiic aou vjiohuu bhtoii ---- --- - -i ....
, ..v,; -j ,w4ii.. io of Germany.
in .uunua o m . , ,An(J thp flnal rpmh of thj movemPnt TRnftp4j llf A CCPn
tetng used on the houses. j8 this. The miKguided. insane voung iftuul iUAO!5Iii
men wuo nave taken part in this move
ment in Ireland have risked and some of
i t'ers have been arranged, licensees will
not begin to do business until after a
hearing oefore the commissioners lues-
day morning at 9 o'clock. Others have
failed to get their establishments in
Generally speaking, the aim of Gener
als .Scott and Funston will be to secure
the consent of General Obregon to the
employment of the American troops in
the territory immediately south of the
border ana to the organization ot tn'
Mexican forces along detinite lines in or
London, April 29.-
-t'nwarils of 100
I .1 l i: ti .t , .
i i,:hj f.r in """ lotir lives, .cui Miiai am i 10
....v. ... ... My of those men wh) haye gpnt them
Dublin, the correspondent of the Kvenmg ;nto tljs insane and anti-patriotic move
News reports in a dispatch filed last ment while they have remained in the
ni"ht He savs that the rioters, hidden 8afe remoteness of American cities?
in houses commanding the important '"f" ldH!'i 51,..n,ovemert h"
, . . ., "ecn set m motion by this same class of
streets, are keeping up a constant fusil- men at the very moment when America
lade and the list of casualties continues is demanding reparation for the blood of
to lengthen. It includes many civilians I Innocent American men, women and chil-
FOR AN ATTACK
iirri i T-i TkTCr'C,ICl?r I o00 'le r" 8na second claas who plan
HlItEi U1S1 tLiKSMJ to be all "hooked up," as the barkeeps
Germans Got Ready to Make Assault on
Avocburt Positions and Hill No. 304,
but They Were Unable
to Leave Trenches.
. ,1 ; ..... . . r : j .. . x- . . .. 1 . . I '
there will be plenty of relief in sight fori , ., . ... . ..... ... . A.
the thirsty, as there are licensees of I ., R J
General Obregon will be assured that
j 1. a . .-11 ... . ? . 1. .1 ...
av. Wore to-morrow night. u e " f "
Kules to govern the conduct of licensed ..."
places are to be laid down at the com- De"eve lnal American ooroer in n
mission meeting tn.niiri.f .t.i. u w be free from raids similar to that in Co
Scott of Rirre eitv court .Tiidire K. f. lumbus.
Harvev of the Mnntnelier ritv onnrt as I Oflicials hero have noted the statement
well as the overseers of Door deriart- n border dispatches that General Obre
merits in Barre and ilantpelier will have gn would assert that 40,000 Carram-.a
ready a list of names that are to be troops now were employed in policing
posted by the commissioners Monday territory south of the border, thus 111
morning. It is said that upward of 300 suring protection of American borde
men and women in this vicinity will be towns from Mexican raiders. It is gen
prevented from dealing with the licen- erally understood, however, that this will
cees, either because thev are listed us not be regarded as the convincing demon
Paris, April 29. After a violent bom-
who, the correspondent says, have been dren shed by Germany and thus they arelbardment of French positions near Avo-
picked on hy Mnn ein snipers. 1 or no guniy ot double treason treason to the eourt amj y0 304 on the Verdun
other reason that that they were be- generous land that received them as well . . . . ,'r .
lieved to be loyal. A cordon of troops is as to the land which gave them birth. front' we8t of the Mcusc ermttn trooP
ling drawn gradually but surely nround "Is it not an additional horror that on massed for an assault, but this attack
. . . - ! 11.; j i . .... .1 . . 1 ... ..n, v. nit
me rcici wrongnoi is ana every eiion is u.e ery pay w en we nearo tnat men ot was prevented by French artillery which habitual drunkard, or because they have Utration desired by the Washington gov
uy,,B ....uC VU . .,....,, i.u ci mucu dispersed the German troops, the war been aided by a charity department. eminent
eneu anu ianmge. - 11 niiuicn in me Birecis 01 initmn we re-1 , , . , I
in un ir.(pviw niil.l ioliorl in.Aav tli eeiveH news nf hnui mon nt iru j: office announced this afternoon. I
Wd. r of t.hn Sinn Feinern in Cork de- vision our own Irish hricriiHe nf 1,J A viirorons attack Wis made on French iUU-M 1 1 tLILK NOW IN SPLENDID OFFICES.
pl'iroa flinf flm InaniWa thnpo nlannuil tnlRflniA TlllKlin flltttllinra InaA ila.li.il Iriinnhaa cia af. tf TTh in II mntll farm hut
rise simultaneously with their Dublin ward and by their unconquerable brav- the Germans were repulsed with heavy RuMWy Hors Caused Pedestrians to Granite Manufacturers' Association Has
flm.rl..a 1 . r. ..i r.41,;i ,irnnf nr.nMrt ! H.V 1-illalrnn Ir.n.liAa 1 ... i ' 1 1 I 1 I RfM i t 1 Mane. IT a eil i t
comrades but that somethinu went wrontr ery retaken trenches the Germans had losses. I " Scatter.
with the arrangements. "We might have won at Hulluch? Was there ever stich The battle of Verdun may now be con- A lively runaway in the early part of
been in possession of the postollice but a picture of tragedy whirih a small sec- sidered as ended, according to opinion list evening caused" Main street pedestri-
for the fact that the military were there tion of an Irish faction has so often in- prevailing in French military circles, aim near the coiner of State street to
first," said the IcWdt.r. "I do not think dieted on the fairest hopes and the brav- Not only the recent French officml re- seek sheltering doorsways and quite a
we will rise here now,'- he continued, est deeds of Ireland? ports but vesterdav's German announce- number had narrow hukwi frnm r.,i,.rC
As to the final result. I do not be- ment stated that nothing important had The horse became frightened on 'Barre
lieve this wicked and insane movement I develoned in that reoioti. Hi nearlv
1 - - ( - - - o i -'i kiiu iwiiuuni vnv, .uaiii nfci -
ine l.erman plot two months since the German war olliee ner with considerable speed, lit front
of the city hall the animal freed itself
from the wagon and most of the harness
'but if they come to demand our arms
we shall shoot tbem. When the news of
the Dublin rising came Monday we all
retired to our armored barracks, loaded
our rifles, polished our bayonets, set in Ireland retain their calmness, fortitude
a store of provisions and prepared for and unity. They abhor this attack on
anything. The bishop of Cork and the interests, their rights and their
lord mayor came to the barracks at mid- principles. Home rule has not been do-
night and implored us to lay down our stroyed. It remains indestructable."
arms but we refused absolutely."
"The thing that surprises me most
about the uprising in Dublin is the sup
ply of munitions in the hands of thp reb
els," said an Irishman who arrived this
morning and who spent ten hours in Dub
lin Tuesday. "There is little doubt in
will achieve its ends.
has failed. A majority of the people of I has made such a statement. Heavy Ger
man batteries in considerable number
have been withdrawn from before Ver-Ln.j t(H.u ,. .j,!-,....!, f f),e st.it r..t
. . . . , . . -. I ' ' " - "v.. i . . m, i,rl, y,lr noil 7 T V il'll VI IM
aun and it is expected tnat ine wrmans wner. It fell in front of the Blakely and the other half, also utilized by the
Many Facilities.
Every quare inch of space in the new
ly renovated quarters of the Barre Gran
ite Manufacturers' assotisition on the
third floor of the C. W. Averill building
is now ready for occupancy and visitors
who have had the privilege of inspecting
the rooms are as one in subscribing to
the opinion that no finer offices could be
desired. Carpenters, artisans, painters
and decorators have practically trans
formed one half-section of the top floor
ORGANIZED REBELS
ARE CONFINED TO
gradually will reduce the frequency and
intensity of their bombardments until
normal conditions are restored.
Artillery action was about all that
was reported in the official communiea- took the battered wagon to tl
tion la night winch was as follows: M . t hhn. the h
orth of the Aisne the cannonading f. . , ...
the popular mind that the Germans have. .
been landing arms from submarines for F Marshal French Reports Troops are
Closing in On Them Considerable
months," he continued, "and it is even
said, although I don't believe it, that a
few Germans also organized and landed."
Damage By Fires.
"GERMAN PLOT HAS FAILED"
Declares John Redmond, Leader of Irish
Nationalists.
London, April 29. "The military oper
ations for the suppression of the rebel
lion in Dublin are proceeding satisfac
torily," gays a communication issued by
Field Marshal French, mmmimllnii tha
. j',", t, i' uvv-T. ''"""" home forces, late last night,
leader of the Irish Nationalists in the B B
House of Commons, last night gave the Wliat must be described as the or
Afsociated Iress the following statement ganized forces of the rebels," the corn
concerning the uprising in Dublin: munication adds, "are confined to a few
"My first feeling, of course, on hear- localities, the principal one beinir the
ing of this insane movement wag one of I Sackville-street district, in which the
horror, discouragement and almost de- rebels headquarters appear to be the cen-
t - I. i ir i ..i . .. , I . 11 f"
rNii. i m-u in. sin wiieiiier ireiana erai posiomce.
as so often before in her tragic history "The cordon of trooDs around thin di.
was to dash the cup of liberty from her trict has been drawn closer, and the reb-
ii, mo j.iMtiniY i BioHii seciion els in this locality are now confined be
of iter people once again to turn all her hind their line of barricades.
marvelous victories ot the last lew years "Sniping from houses in which small
to irreparable defeat and to send her parties of the rebels have established
ha. on the very eve of her final recogni- themselves in various parts of the city
tion as a free nation into another long stiU continues. The d.Vtri.t where t.hi
is most prevalent is that northeast ff
the J-onr Courts, which are till in the
pof-.ion of the rebels. The clearance
of these snipers Is a matter of time.
Considerable damage was caused by
fires on the 2,th and a Urge fire is still
burninar in Sackvillc utreet.
"In the other part- of Ireland the prin
cipal centers of disturbances arc in Coun
ty Galway and in Knniscorthy. Dis
turbance ao the reported at Killarnev.
Olonmel and Corey.
inr tuner pans oi Ireland appear
normal. The general trend of the re
port received indicates that the disturb
antes are local in ehann-ter.'
FEW LOCALITIES ha9 t00" violent in the region of Iiois
uea im ucs.
'West of the M'euse artillery fighting
o-curred in the sector of the wood of Ma
lancourt. "Kast of the Meuse a violent bombard
ment was directed against our positions
between the Cote dn Pmvre and Douau-
mont.
"In the Woevre the day has been com
paratively quiet.
"In the Yosges our lotteries caught
under their fire an enemy convoy near
Moussey.
"On the rest of the front nothing im
portant has occurred.
"Aviation during the night of 27-2th
urug siore and a man proceeded to loi- manufacturers for assembly purposes
low the customary rule and sit on its has been thoroughly renovated. For sev-
head until aid came. The owner of the eral weeks the main business office has
horse could not be learned but the police (been in use. but only within a few days
lie rear of a I were the office of the secretary and the
horse, unin-l board of directors' room vacated by the
hired, save from a tew scratches, was decorators
cared for. I Fronting the street Is an enlarged
Kev. William Shaw, pastor of Trinity room, formerly used as the main office
church, left this forenoon for Saratoga anil for a long time devoted almost en
springs, . l ., where lie will spend a
month attending, as a delegate from tho
Vermont Methodist conference, the gen
eral conference in that city. Kev. V. K
Dukeshire of St. Albans will preach at
the local church to-morrow,
tirelv to the business of the association.
which has been reserved for the board of
directors. An alcove on the north side
of the suite has been made possible bv
utilizing hitherto unused space in the
outside lobby. A wainscoting of bnrmp
niu'ht ot slavery, incalculable suffering
and weary and uncertain struggling.
"For bx k at the Irih portion to-day.
In tbe t-hort spai-e of 40 years Ireland
bss by constitutional movement made
n almoft unhrokenly triumphal march
from pauperism and slaxery .to prosper
ity and freedom. She has won back the
possession of Irish land; she hat tayed
emigration: she has at last bemin an era
ff national prosperity. Finally nhe has
uveeded in placing on the statute books
the greatest rharter of freedom ever of
fered her since the days of Grattan. It.
all thi to be lost?
"When war came he made a choice
which wa inevitable if he wa to be
true to all the principles which she had
held tirrn;h all her hitry and which
he had jit-t so completely vindicated on
htr on iil. namely, the'rihts of small
nstions, M-red principles of nationality,
I herty and democrary.
Mreor. the nation for which
through all her history nhe had felt the
rmpt!ir that came from common prin
.- r. l common S'l iritiiKH
trsmpl! a in ber time had Yrn
tn j-!-.l under the iron lie-! of arrojrnt
ORANGEMEN ARE EXHORTED.
"MTat laa lrf!asd sufferej ta the jt fovernTarnt."
To Place Their Service at Disposal ef the
Government,
Pel fast, via Ijondon. April 21. The
pTand mtT of the Orange lires of
Ir-Und iucd an order vesteniay to
rr.;i Irish 'rsn'-era.-n. saving:
j "In crisis I ke the piwnt it U the
duty of ery hyal man to place his
i mt i. - at the inoiut diroal of the
has been passing several weeks with his
son at lleveland, ., returned last even
ing to be in readiness for the opening
of the May term of supreme court next
Tuesday forenoon.
In probate court to-day. Frank M.
our aeroplanes shelled the station at nryan was appouuea administrator oi
Andun le Roman, some military huts the estate of Martha L. Park, late of
near Spineourt and the stations at Grand Montpelier. Mr. f'ryan returned yeister
Pre and Challerange." day from Cleveland, where he went two
Belgian communication: "A rather vio- weeks ago in the interest of the Xa-
lent cannonade occurred utcertain points, I tional Life Insurance company.
John II. Watson of Liberty street, who two hiPhIv I1"''"1'''! piHJ" flanking the
especially toward Ramscapelle.'
SETTLLE AT CAPE ANN.
New Quarry Workers. Bill Will Expire in
1921.
A son was Vrn Friday morning to Dr.
and Mrs. K. A. Colton at Hcaton hos
pital, and a son was born the ilith to
Mr. and Mrs. Albert L. 1'hilie of 19 Elm
stret.
NO AGREEMENT YET.
Capo Ann.. Mass. quarry workers reached
a settlement with the employers veter-
lay, according to a statement made to
day by Secretary F. V. Suitor of tho in-1
ternational association, who returned
this morning from a trip to Massachu
setts. The new bill, which is to expire I
But Granite Workers and Manufacturers
Meet Again at Concord.
Concord. X. H.. April S!!.The utone
cutters and the manufacturers held a
conference at the Pha-nix hall last night.
No decision on a wage nle was readied,
in 1021. gives the quarrymen an increase but another meeting will be held to-day
....... a I '
trom two rent to nv cents on a grad-
Hiawatha lod?e. Xo. 20. Imlep.ndent
Order of Odd Fellows, rrlehratod the an
niversary ot the founding of the or
der with appropriate wrivs at the
Fellows hall in the Cordon block lai-t
evening. A program, consisting of a
praver hr ( hapUin C. C. ( irr. a ocjI
uated scale. For IOltt thev are to receive
27 cents per hour, and a cent increase
each year until a 30-cent minimum is
reached in 1920. The scale fr l!2l is
to remain at 30 cents. Two hundred and
fifty quarryworkern, affected by the set
tlement, will resume work Monday and
I is stated thst men, in.-inoing cut- olo by iliss .M.iry t atterson, an aridrct
ters and granite cutters, will shortly re-1 by Rev. J. B. ardon. grand chaplain
sumo work, as other aettlements were grand lde of Vermont, I. O. O. 1'- A
contingent upon a aatisfaetory agTes"-I vocal h-do by .-orge Mjrkav. the pres-
mrnt between the qiiarryworkers anllentjfion of veteran ji-w.ls Frank W.
their employer. .lark-n. P. d. Lrp.. and re- ncs by the
A telegram received from Windsor, X". veteran who rriif I the j. ;. was
SM at the office of th international as- carried out. There were aKo brief spcv'i-
ociatioB thi morning stated that the e front memVwrs of the pranl lore
branch at Sweets (crwf. X. S and whx were prent. F !!w the fornijl
Avondale, X. S. t;T!sil up yesterday j.r.-rara a ia! hour rnjed and
with Mtisfartory advrK. Five bun- :ht teir.-sbnwn- of j un. aii wa'.r
Ired men in the Xova ssndia tntntr d.- were wre.L 1 '.. rt w a larj ttend-
trict are to prvtit by t'ue etti nttiU am.
alcove and mahogany finished woodwork
have, been used with excellent effect. In
the southeast corner a substantial fire-1
place, with Barre granite as one of tho
decorntive features, has been introduced.
Gas lights and the indirect electric light
ing system augment superior natural
lighting facilities. A handsome library
table and chairs of light oak finish, har
monizing with furniture used in the oth
er rooms, are a part ot the furnishings.
Private and public telephone connections
are at hand.
A minutely paneled French door leads
frn the directors' room to the private
office of the secretary, where the quiet
tones of the front room finish are still
to be seen. Every device that is eahn-
lated to expedite the transaction of bus
iness in volumes seems to be a part of
the equipment in the administration of
fice, where care has been taken in the
arrangements to promote convenience
and dispatch in the conduct of business.
There are upo.iking tube connections ex
tending into every room on the floor and
interchangeable telephones, with buzrer
attachments, have been installed. Hard
wood floors are in evidence in every
room.
But Chief Gladding Will Be Incapacitat
ed for Many Weeks.
Reports from the bedside of Chief C. B.
Gladding of tho fire department, who was
taken to the City hospital Friday after-'
noon following an autojaccidciit near tho
base of Jockey. Hollow hill, indicated
that the chief passed a fairly comfort
able night. Abrasions on the nose an
forehead will heal quickly, the physicians
say, but several months of inactivity are
ahead of the patient as a result of the
thigh fracture which he aultered. ine
chief survived well the ordeal of having
the fracture reduced. Game Warden
Charles Keith of Xorth Seminary street
the driver of the machine, is confined to
is home with a fractured rib and
sprained thumb. Ho is suffering the
usual consequences of a bad sliaking-up
but his condition is not considered sen
ous.
At a ' meeting of the alderntanic fire
committee last evening deep sympathy
was expressed for Chief Gladding as well
as the game warden. Realizing that the
nature of the chief s Injuries will detain
m from duty for some time, K. D. Car
penter, the second assistant engineer.
was appointed to serve as acting chief
urmg Mr. Gladding absence. James
Benjamin was engaged to serve as a reg-
lar fireman. Acting Chief Carpenter as
sumed the responsibilities of the position
once and Fireman Benmmin was as
signed to the hook and ladder truck this
morning.
The damaged automobile was hauled
to a Xorth Main street garage yesterday
atternoon. Examination of the car fe
vealed tho fact that one of the radius
rods, governed by the steering wheel, had
become loosened from its collar. It is
said bv some that the condition of the
railroad crossing and highway just north
of where the accident occurred may have
been responsible for the trouble with the
radius rod.
That Chief Gladding has bad his share
of misfortunes of late is revealed by the
statement that one year ago last Sun
day he figured in a serious accident. In
attempting to board the auto fire truck
on Xorth Main street, w-hich wag re
sponding to a general alarm for a fire
on Railroad street,, he was knocked down
by an auto driven by an cast lull man.
Injuries which he received at that time
necessitated his removal from the scene
of the fire and confined him to the house
for a few days. At the Reynolds block
fire Xov. 2, 1915. the chief was nearly
overcome by smoke and sustained pain
ful cuts in the lace, although he recov
ered quickly.
NEVER LOVED
MRS. PHELPS
Declared Utley in Testifying
in the $10,000 Suit
Against Him
CASE ADJOURNED
TILL TUESD
After a Few Wit-
Put on th Mid
Countyl;ourt
Were
in
HELD FOR MILF0RD POLICE.
Henry A. White Is Wanted in Massaehu
. setts Town.
Henry A. White, wanted by the police
of Mjlford, Mass., to answer to a statu
tory charge, was arrested in Barre las
night by Officer Harry Gamble an
locked up at police headquarters, pend
ng advices from Miltoru. i'.arlv tin
morning t hiet of Police Jcrrv Murph
of Milford wired Chief Sinclair that he
would arrive in Barre late this afternoon
to take charge of the prisoner. It is suid
that White arrived in Barre last Sunda
morning. Milford authorities suspected
that he had gone from Massachusetts to
ermont with the result that Barre po
lice headquarters was osked to co-oper
ate in locating the man. Winte is
Voting man. He offered no objection
last night when Officer Gamble placed
him under arrest. Chief Murphv will
probably return to Milford with the man
early Sunday morning.
Twenty-four pints of whiskey seized
by Chief Sinclair and Constable George
L. Morris in a team driven by Benjamin
Cruz near the city line on Quarry street
Thursday were claimed by F. Bona
Cuban, residing in Graniteville,- when
Cruz was arraigned before Magistrate
II. W. Scott in eitv court Friday after
noon. Cruz entered a plea of not guiltv
to transporting liquor illegally land his
ase was set for a .hearing Tuesday
morning at 9 o'clock. He was admitted
to $."00 bail. The Cuban, Borta. told the
ourt- that the whiskey was consigned
to him from Boston after he had signed
is name to one of several slips mailed
un several months ago by a ' Boston
liquor concern. One of the slips submit
ted to the judge for inspection was dated
1!I3. The whiskey was turned over to
Borta.
BOARD OF TRADE COMMITTEES
Were Selected at Meeting of Directors
Last Evening.
The directors of the Barre Board of
Trade held a special meeting last even-
ng, discussing various subjects of inter
est, and tho president. W. G. Reynolds,
ade the following committee appoint
ment for the ensuing year, which were
confirmed by the directors. The commit
tees are as follows:
legislative-'. W. Melcher, X. D.
Phelps, S. H. Jackson.
Arbitration F. B. Reardon, William
Barclay. E. J. Owens.
Advisory .1. W. Carver, F. E. Langlcy,
A. P. Abbott
Crowding the testimony of six wit
ncsses, in rebuttal, into a half hour's
session this forenoon, Washington county
court took a recess at 9 o'clock until
Tuesday forenoon at the same hour. The
defense in the alienation case, Phelps
against Utley, finished late jesterday
afternoon and it was agreed to convene
at 8:30 o'clock this forenoon so that the
plaintiff might introduce the half doz
en witnesses before next week.
The arguments will probably com
mence Tuesday and the jury be given
the cae the following day. Those who
testified this forenoon were the plaintiff,
Frank Phelps, and his wife, Mr. and Mrs.
Cilley, Mr. Wheeler and William Lance,
all Cabot residents. ,
On direct examination yesterday afters ,
noon the defendant continued his testi
mony, contradicting the evidence sub--mitted
during Mrs. Phelps' story of their
relations. He denied that he met the
woman in the woods on Xov. 2, nor did
he see her near the gttte house on Oct. 20.
or anywhere else. He said he had never
ttempted to induce her to go to St.
Johnsbury or any other place so that he
might meet her.
I tlev said he had never. been an love
with Charlotte Phelps and had never
made love to her. He averred that the
story as told bv her, that they would
commit suicide by Bhooting or drowning
f the husband found out their relations.
wlas untrue. He emphatically denied
that he ever had any secret meetings
with Mrs. Phelps or ever had any criro
nal intimacy or attempted to have such
intimacy with her.
On cross examination, conducted bv
Atty. Laird, Utley said he was 42 years
of age and now resided in Hardwick.
Asked about the automobile ride which,
he took with Mrs. Phelps as a companion
in 1912, he said he had never mentioned
the ride to Mr. Phelps because he thought
it was all right. The next meeting with,
Mrs. Phelps after the ride that evening
took place at the home of Horace Peck
on X'ov. 2i. There he talked with her a,
few minutes in the roadway in front of
the house.
Mr. Utley denied that he had asked.
Mrs. Phelps to keep a record of the dates
of their meetings so that he could estab
lish alibis if necessary on those occa
sions. Utley admitted that he knew
Phelps was unfriendly toward him by
his actions but that this feeling did not
stop him from speakin'' to or talking:
with Mrs. Phelps when they met. All
the meetings, he averred, were accidental
and when he met her in the road ha
didn't feel that it was necessary for bin
to leave the road to avoid coming inta
contact with her.
A new case was entered with the coun
ty clerk to-day, Maria M. Mudgctt of
Wolcott vs. W. M. Parker of Montpelier,
an action to recover $4,000 for alleged
failure to pay . the amounts of several .
promissory notes. Dunnett nd Shield
are attorneys for the plaintiff. ,
$600 FINE IMPOSED
FOR LIQUOR SALE
IN MONTPELIER
Mrs. Mary Monti, Finally Brought to
Trial After Many Delays, Was Con
victedHer Attorney May Take
Case to Supreme Court.
After several postonements for dif
ferent reasons, including the illness of
the respondent, the case of State s.
Mrs. Mary Monti of Putnam street.
barged with selling intoxicating liquor.
was taken up in Montpelier city court
this forenoon before Judge K. M. Harvey,
ml the respondent was found guilty.
She was fined .StiiHI, with costs. Her at-
tornev. G. L. Hunt, may take the case
to supreme court on the ground that th
omphunt was not properly nrougni.
Grand Juror A. I. I lienault, who
prosecuted, placed two witnesses on the
tand, William uipan ami a .ur. j,a-
Rose. both of whom testihcd to having;
iircha-cd liquor of the respondent. Iji-
Rose was arrested last Saturday for in
toxication and paid a line and he told in
court to-day of having purchased the
liquor Saturday afternoon at tlie Monti
house. To combat his testimony the de
fense put on two witnesses, Mr. Stack
pole ami William Brown, to show that
Education-('. If. White, O. K. Hollis- i,i;(We (m the Saturday afternoon men
ter. H. G. Woodruff. Itioned appeared at the Slonti barn, where
Indicative of a new era in the affairs
of the association are the splendidly Mai-kar. G. H. Tape
. . , 1 1 equipped and adequately aroointed oiisr-l Membership F
"O'l : 1.1.1. . .. I.. ........ I I" II I ..i.i i: v- U.,,l
nr. in wmcn .-ec. 11. i . iiinmnn na nm i-.. Mi-rari3iiu. ... ...
Electric imwer 1. M. Barclay. J. P.
Corskie, J. T. Mkirrion. Alexander Dun
can.
Foreign trade V. K. Avers. Alexander
Gordon. H. J. M. .lone.
Hotel -F. 1). I .ad I. H. W. Hooker. F. E.
Ungley. 1). M. Miles.
Municil affairs-If. C. Ladd, G. X.
Tilden. .1. F. Higffin.
Statit-tirw and information .lame
II G. Woodruff.
Mill.ir. S. Ri7i. G.
assistants are now ensconced. With the'
la....l.;nr. . I...... 1
"' j. -' " ,,,. .ii.ri ii-ini: . mil-
psign that is designed t have fur-reaching
effect in bringing Barre cranite to
the attention of the pnldic as it has nev
er been hrooght before, it may lie Mid in
all truth thst the future h notch in
store fur the am i it ion. its fl7 men'twr
now eloely knit by organized efforts
never undertaken in t'e pflt.
The officer of the association at tl
Meetings an'l rceplions .. ( . .Monte,
. II. II. Jackson, H. I- Camp
bell. X. B- Ballard.
Mercantile affairs D. .1. Morse. W. P.
. s- . T ..
( s-n' ;! n. . r-. i'ir.
Manufacturing -Walter P. Scott, F. F.
Sart.-lle. Waldmn Shield,
i New cnlc'pnses - II. F. Cutler, B. W.
, Honker. C. F. M-:inr.
I Publicity F. H. l:-cer.. A. P. AMMt,
' .. . . - ..
r.. t . lvson. ii. i. iiinman.
present time are: President. Alexander
Ihmcan of the Vrth Barre Granite Co.;
! toe president. T. FL Callahan of the
Columbian Granite " Xfortr-'icr: ee n. B. I.ivlnni. G. X. 1
on I tc president. W. I. M-fV.ra1d ofi Way nl iri.tf-G.
Tran-portntwn an I railroads .Txrr.f
F. Hir?ii. E. . Kent. U. G. Rohinmn.
Taxation and insurant H. P. I n-
Men.
K. Vari'i. F.
they were working, and produced a quart
of whiskey and invited them to drink
with him. They refused, he tarried only
a half an hour to em-apc a sliower ami
then departed without going into tho
house. UiKote denied that he had a.
quart that day, hut. had purchased iv
pint. Stackole and Brown were tinaldo
to deserilie Rose's appearance wham
they saw him and noticed nothing pe
culiar about him. When arrested I ji -l!oe
was dressed in a blue suit with
bra-a Ixittons and presented a unique ap
pearance, to My the' least.
SCOTT AND FTJNSTOJf ARRIVE.
the WorU Granite Co, East P.arre; sec- G. HowUni, J. P. Cwkjc, C. M. :Ur.
And Commence Kegotiationi for Cea
ference with Cbrejon.
M Pa-. T.-x.. Apr l i"tMj (.en.
H'igh I- Scan and Erc ! r k Funstnn
re.-v!e,i I I -jio anortiy twrore o orKwit
lst tiiirft n-l immediately conferrej
with Andrea l,r-ja. Mexi.- eonnl st
II Pa... t arrange ff.r te date a n t
'('af of tSc fr-t ontrrrrve l-t h e-n he
j.n:erK-n 1-iera an I t ' tft -n. m a-i-tT
f war of Mexico,
