A Ml
r mn i I '111 j
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
:
'
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
-
V
vv
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, SATURDAY, APRIL 29, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
1 nil "
I 1 I E 1 I I 1 I I I I C 1 1 II '
BATTLE WIT
AM Mi
Sinn Feins Planned Great Confl; ition Hoping to Escape In
i the Confusion British TroirvSent to Check Blaze, Are
i Fired On From House Tops and Spectacular Fight Fol
lowsMore Than a Hundred Rebels Killed Disheart
ened by Failure To Cause General Uprising
By Wilbur S. Forrest,
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
Dublin, Ireland, April 29. Amid roaring flames which
threatened to cweep the city, British troops and Irish
rebels engaged in a furious hand to hand struggle until an
early hour yesterday. Routed, the rebels scurried away
as dawn broke upon the blackened ruins of the Sinn Fein
strongholds in the heart of Dublin. "
As they fled, fire from Maxim guns and the troops'
rifles mowed them down. It was estimated that more
than 100 persons were killed or missing as a result of the
four days street fighting.
The military is apparently in control, though the dis
orders are not completely quelled. A ring of steel has
been thrown around the rebels, who seem disheatrened
at their failure to arouse a general uprising in Ireland.
Late Thursday, as troops began closing in, the revolu
tionists started numerous fires in the heart of the city.
They evidently planned a great conflagration hoping to
escape in the resulting confusion.
British troops rushed toward the fires, being ordered
to kill all rebels who attempted to prevent them from ex
tinguishing the flames. The troops had scarcely begun
battling the blaze when fussilades burst forth from the
roofs of adjacent buildings.
eclipsed anything on the
turesqueness. -
Blasts of smoke and flame hid the buildings in rebel
hands, rolling away a moment later to disclose groups of
men on the steep, upright roofs, firing at soldiers below.
It was reckless work. The rebels' figures against the
background of fire were easy targets. One after another
they were picked off, the troops firing from shadows in
the streets.
The general postoffice and the customs house escaped,
flames stopping just short of them. The work of cleaning
out snipers is proceeding systematically, troops avoiding
doing damage to public property or injuring non-combatants.
London, "April !. Irish rebels esti-j
muted at from 2.000 to 10,000 strong
have been cornered and surrounded in
t ho heart of Dublin by the British, ad
vices from the scene of the disturbance
naid today. Troops are besieging the
pnsfoffieo, iu which the Sinn Feiners es
tablished headquarters. Several nearby
buildings have been captured from the
rioters. Light artillery has been trained
on the postoffice, but commanders hope
to seize- it without futrher damage to
tin' buifding.
A press dispatch from a poiut near
Dublin declared that some rebels had
made overtures for surrender. The most
severe fighting occurred late yesterday
when Knfish troops attacked and cap
tared' strongly entrenched positions on
St. Stephens green. The Green itself
is enclosed by a wall and entrance may
be gained only through comparatively
new gates. These the Sinn Feiners bar
ricaded with overturned motor trucks.
Government troops rushed thc bar
ricades in close formation anil after 13
minutes of desperate hand to hiind
lighting broke through the gate. In
siMe, the rebels had shallow trenches,
''" '' - ' -' '-" "'- "'-
)-. c sfc 3e jc j
ABE MARTIN
M in Fawn I.ippincut says that m'to
she laces her new spring shoes she', too
HI' U I lll-l 'lull 1"'IUIU 0 B-T Will
ft it s printed.
REBELS
FLAMES
The battle which followed
European fronts for pic-
proterled by sandbags and iron spikes,
From these defenses iney fi'ed volley
after volley into the musses of Uritith
pouring through the gate. Desoiti this,
the first government soldiers c.hnigcd
without waiting for reinforcements.
Women Among Fighters
One detachment of the rioters was cvt
off. surrounded and captured, mure than
.'i00 men laying down their arms. Unof
ficial dispatches asaei.ted ihf. entire
Green was iu possession of the artillcy.
Severn! women Sinn Feiners figured
in the early street fighting. I-iter they
disappeared. It is believed tant tlieV
have been hidden by rebel sympnthi'.
ers. The authorities were informed that
the Countess Mnrkieviecz attired in n
(jr(.,.n uniform marched with the rioters
on the dav the uprising commenced
Fires are burning in several parts of
Dublin. Other disturbances have ac
curred in Killarncy, Enniscrothy, Gor-v.
Glocoinel and in certain parts of (uin
way county, but everywhere else the it
llft t i fin is culm, nccnrrlimr to nn n(Yiei;iT
announcement.
' -
The British cabinet met unexpectedly
thin morning, causing the most sonKV
tional rumors, because the cabinet never
im'ets en Saturday. Some rumors dealt
jj, I wuu ireinnn nuu demand mat .xuus
jj. j tine Biirell, chief secretary for Ireland.
i resign.
ween, w line una leuowxiat.
! ..Man' "''i'11 the meeting w.s for
the purpose of considering conscnp
tion.
j Fcbcl asents who attempted to evise
! outbreaks in Cork and other cities were
j promptly nrrested. Troops left Kngland
i yesterday for Ireland and it is bj liovee
Jfajor Cencrn Maxwell will lie able to
I control the situation without further re
j iuforcementa.
The first boatload of passengers from
j Ireland brought the best nccnuuts of the
outbreak. They agreed that it start
ed at noon on Monday when 1,000 rebel
wearing soft lints and enrrying both oh
and modern rifles burst into the lost
office and ordered nil employes to
leave,
A number1 of women accompanying
me reoels wore green sashes and tart
ridge belts. A rebel flag, green, whit..
and jellow, with a large harp, was
tnrust trom an upper window of the
postoffice. A policeman who remon
started was attacked bv a crowd of riot
ers and thrown bodily from the se. or.d
floor.
Rioters Cantur Buildinirs.
I Another force of revolutionists, bur-t
. ill'? mr4tcrimmlv frum mililic hnitaoa ml
ops" on Sarkville street, moved uoon
I . .
(Continued on Pat'o Nine.)
Germans Think Wilson Is Do-r
ing His Utmost to Help
English Cause
By Carl W. Ackprman,
(United Press Stuff Correspondent.)
Berlin, April 21). Publication here of
President Wilson's memorandum with
regard to armed vessels caused a new
flurry of excitement. No official com
ment was obtainable.
The average Berlin citizen, his first
wave of anger over the submarine note
having subsided, thought he saw iu the
memorandum new substantiation of the
old charge that America is doing i': ut
most to help Kngland. The president's
statement that an armed ship should be
deemed peaceful until there was con
clusive evidence to the contrary brought
the following comment from a citizen:
"If I walk down the street, with a
gun in my pocket how is President
Wilson to know whether my intention
is offensive or defensive t"
It is too early to say whether the
memorandum will cause n hitch in the
negotiations on the submarine issue,
which are now in a satisfactory state.
Probably this will be known after Am
bassador Gerard returns from his con
ference with Kaiser Wilhelm, which be
gins today.
Washington Hopeful.
By Kobert J. Bender.
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
Washington, April 29. Marked re
laxation of tension over the German
American situation was manifest in
Washington today. This was attributed
to knowledge that the German reply to
the American submarine demands had
been completed and that the kaiser was
discussing continued friendly relations
with Ambassador Gerard.
It was expected that the reply of
Clerinnnv would be accompanied by a
personal expression from German of
ficinls of a strong desire that no
breach exist in the friendly intercourse
between the nations. The reply will
probably be in the president's hands by
midweek or sooner.
RIVAL ENGINEERING
CREWS' IN FIELD ON
Southern Pacific and Hill In
terests Both Working Gangs
Near Detroit
The Southern Faeific appear to be
attempting to protect its interests in
the passes east of Detroit on the line
of the proposed railroad to Bend, ac
cording to KoaChnnHicr Culver, who re
turned to this city from a trip to Iloov
cr yesterday. This line has been a "pro
nosed" railroad for the past 20 or 25
yeais-aud is still that kind but the riv
alry between the lines may force the is
sue in the near futuro.
Gangs of surveyors snd locating en
gineetrs have been working out of Sa
lem toward Stayton and on toward the
mountains in an easterly direction fi r
some mouths and were supposed to be
attached to the Hill interests. Evident
ly the Southern Bucific hus taken cog
nizance of the railroud rumors that
have been floating about and Mr. Culv
er reports that a locating crew of South
ern Pacific engineers is re-locating the
line ubove Detroit toward Minto i'ass.
Twenty years ago the Corvallis &
Eastern, now a brunch of the Southern
Pacific extended its line four miles be
yond Detroit to a place named Muhiia.
The tracks were afterward taken up
from Hoover to Iduna, a distar.ee of
two miles, but the grade remains in fair
condition. At that time about nine
miles of grade was puc up beyond Tdan
ha nearly to Independence Pia'rie
where the Snntiam forks. No track
was ever laid on this grau-5 but
it still Remains with the e-i-iep! i"ii
of a few washouts and it is possible
that the Southern Pacific, intend) to
re locate over this grade to prevent a
rUnl road making use or It.
From the forks of the Santiim it is
nearly 30 miles to Minto Pi n which is
the best and lowest pass over the sum
mit of the Cascades. Through Minto
Pass the Southern Pacifi: lui 1 s-tcel
rails' and a small section of truck when
the road was started, to hol t the pass.
The rails were cut in short lengths and
packed in on mules from the eest side
of the mountains. This bit of trae' re
mains with the rails as two ntrenks of
rust to guard the pass against rivals
if two onuiiicerinff
crews at this time does not indicate i
there will be any railroad building for!
some time, however, an these crews aie,
only a preliminary line and it has b'-en
proven by past experiences that Hi'.' lo
cating engineer is often yearn in im
vtonce of the first locomotive.
Rnadmastcr Culver report that the
trail from Niagara to Hoover is now
completed through the efforts, of tl.'
road districts and the forest supervis
ols. The trail will allow the pnssnge of
I horses with ease aad tho bridges are
safe and the grades luJjt.
UNITED STATES
MAY POLICE All
NORTHERN MEXICO
i
Obregon Met Scott and Funs
ton Today, He Crossing to
El Paso for Visit
CONFLICT WOULD MEAN
END OF DE FACTO REGIME
Army at Dress Parade to Re
ceive Distinguished
Mexican Visitor
By E. T. Conkle.
(United Press staff correspondent.!
Kl Paso, Texas, April 2S. Geueril
Hugh Scott and General Fred Flint-ton
aro contemplatiug a tour of inspection
to the American front iu Mexico it v. us
learned today. Viun for this d"pend on
the outcome of their conferences with.
General Alviiro Obrcgon, Mexican uur
minister. If the trip is dec i led on it
will include a tour from Columbus to
Namiquipa.
The fullest honors were accorded to
Obregon when he visited Scott in El
Paso today, returning the formal call
made on him in Jua '.'i. by Scott and
Fuuston last night.
"The visit was merciy to return the
courtesy," said Fuus'.on. who was pres
ent. "Absolutely no points iu the com
ing conference were brought up. We
expect soon to arrange a time tui.i place
for the conference. I am in hopes that
the meetings will be held on the AurVr
ie.au side of the border, bar; this mut
ter will be settled in a manner satis
factory to the conferees. "
The Eighth cavalry regiaicnr escorted
f,i,,.,. ,i i i.,. ;,.o.r.r,.. ....i' ...i.
11..,.. .,.. i Vi!"iV.r:.f a I
luri CIIHTll-U I U3U.I AJIIVllltl J 11 1 ,111 - I
try was stretched along the main
streets. They saluted as the Carnin
zistas passed from the iu'.irnntiounl
bridge to Scott's private c;ir in the
railroad yards. Nearly iSM troops
from Fort Bliss, representing every
branch of the service, participated in
tha demonstration accorded Obreg'm.
Obregon accompanied by liia bride, an
orderly and a chauffeur, tool; a sunrise
ride through El 1'aso in a machine
which he brought with him f'om Mexico
City.
i
16,000 Troops In Mex'cj.
By E. T. Conkle.
(Knifed Press staff correspondent )
El Paso, Texas, April 2H. Hcfusnl to
withdraw the American expedition f r uu
Mexico until Francisco Villa is takci
and demands that use of railroads am!
other facilities be granted the I'nit-J
States forces are expected to be among
tho proposals of General Hugh Seoi-,
chief of stuff, when he meets General
Alvaro Obregon, Mexican war minister
in their "first formal conference today.
Indications were that President Wil
son would even welcome a temnorarv
peaceful protectorate over Mexico until
the bandits are exterminated and the
border raid menace forever removed.
This would involve the policinir of
northern Mexico by Americans, to
which Obrcgon is opposed.
While preparing for the conference:',
both the Amcqjcan and Carranzista mil
itary mobilized to make demonstrations
of strength such as the situation may
require. However, actual intervention
or a break with Mexico is not consid
ered by administration officials here.
Reinforcements have been sent to
Brigadier General Pershing continuous
ly during the past 24 hours. There ure
now more than lli,000 American soldiers
in Mexico or strung cfosely between
Columbus and San Antonio, .Mexico. The
Carranza army garrisoning Chihauhua
and Sonora is about 40,000 strong.
Tries to Save Carranza'g Face.
General Scutt, accompanied by Major
leneral Fred Fuuston, formally 'caf e,! ! ,lliri"tT 1110 month of April, as the
m Olirm,,.,, Ut ii,t ti,. Hreiort shows tout 1,2 visited the
on Obregon last night. They crossed
the international bridge over the Itio
flrande at S p. m. Consul (iurcia and
Vi.-e.'nsnl S,in ;.i. .i.
uu the .Mexican side the Americans
were met by Genera! Gavirn. command
ant of Juarez. A fanfare by .Mexican
buglers announced their arrival. Mex
iinn ., . .
ican troops lined the streets from the
bridge to the customs house,
c......,i
Trevino met them on the steps of the'aft,r (liKKinK UP pavnient on the
building and led them to General Ob-''trai'k Bl"1 n"l,c,!tlI,e tho retaining wal
regon's office. n"'' drainage, tho opinion was general
Scott. Funston and Obrcgon C0I1. that the drainage was sufficient to ear
versed for nearly- an hour. There w-.s! ,lie tllat Uus l,avcm,'"t
un iiitiinntinn of tho ).;u..(. (,,ii,...i i would not be injured. Hut the city
over, except for the announcement that
Ohrponn h;,,1 eminent-. i n ...t.,,n ,i.
Obregon had consented to return the
call iu Kl Paso today. A military "inrd
will meet him. A review of '.tVtod
Mates trooos may be he d at tort llliss
in his honor. Details of the coming
official conferences are expected to be
settled at today's meeting.
wiireeoa nns expressed coat lUe'ice
that America will see the justice of 'he 'other an agreement will be reached op
demand for a speedy withdrawal of 1h: holding President Wilson's policy nnd
expedition. lie is ready to promise any j saving Mexico's pride. Kach side m n-t
co oneration accessary to sinh a mnv. I await official approval from its govern-
Obrcgon believes that it is impos-iible
for Carranza to restore order while t he
presence of the Americans offers trc
Villistas ground for arousing the ijr.or -
ant peons.
However, Obrcgon is ulso underitool
These Are Repulsed Ger
mans Claim to Haye Cap
tured 5,000 Russians
Faris, April 29. German f;r.v& re
sumed their attack on Verdun during
the night with heavy assaults on both
banks of the Meuse. Hurling hand gran
ades. the French charged and stooped
! an onslnughj ngninst jtill :i04, the key
stone of the northwestern defense. An
even more violent attack east of Taiau
mont was heavily repulsed.
Fighting on the east banlc of the
Meuse spread from the river to Douan
mont and Vaux. There was savant bat
tling raging there throughout all yes
terday. Following one of the most violent ac
tions of the Verdun campaign, which
dropped an Intense curtain of fiie over
the Fsench defenses, Germnns charge.)
again and again east of Thiaumon
where they were frequently defeated,
said the communique. They sprayed the
French works with streams of liqui 1
fire as they advanced hut steady show
ers of shrapnel ripped their ranks to
pieces and the survivors were luirind
back leaving many comrades dead and
dying on the field.
Another force suddenly emerging
from Cailette wood attacked the Douau-mont-Vnux
line, only to be thrown back
without gaining a foov
On the Meuse west bnnk, French
gunners got the range of a hidden muni
tion depot which was spied out by avia
tor and shortly after the first shell
screamed into it the mngazine blew up
with a terifie, explosion. The Ger
mans shelled Avoctiurt and Esnes all
day.
Russians Again Busy.
Berlin, April 2. More than 5,()0
Russians including high officers were
enptured when Germans carried posi
tions between Stanarooze and Stach
owe, it wns announced officially today.
The Russians suffered heavy losses,
increased by numerous counter attacks
on their part, all of which were re
pulsed. The SlavH attacked again and
again in mnss formntion, but were un-
able to reconquer their lost positions,
. . ..I'- c
Fifty-six officers including four mem
bers of the staff, a cannon, 10 mine
throwers and 28 machine guns were
seized.
Germans advancing in the Givenchy
section repulsed British counter attacks.
Some Things Found
In the School Report
la comparison with Superintendent
O. M. Klliotfs report of May 28, l!l",
and the one just recently issued for
the month of April of this year, there
are 100 more pupils in the public
schools regular in attendance than ono
year ago. Although the total number
registered during the school year was
;ili:i, yet there are 20-10 remaining us
compared to 2..'U during May ot a
venr nuo.
Then, of those actually attending,
toe girts were fid in the ma jority. Ac
cording to the April report the girl
are 01 in the majority.
Iu comparison the reports of March
21 and April 21 of this year, the tact
is shown that the attendance has (al
ien off Ml. At preseut there are 01
less boys in school than one month
ago, and Hit less girls.
The report shows a registration, total
ing 111 lit for tiie year. Of this larae
nuuiiber, eseiinlly for this time of
year, many are dropping out, even in
the upper grades. The March report
shows TiOl boys registered between
the ages o!' 14 and 20, and ("( girls.
The report one mouth later shows the
same number of boys, but the girls Hi
these higher grades seem to be drop
ping out, as the last report shows a
registration of only ii'J", compared to
02ii in March, a decrease of l!l.
Tha viiiMmr mi.ntliu uphiii In li!il'i fin
effect on those who make clean records
of being neither tardy nor late. In
Mirch, 1701 were neither tardv nor
late, while in Apiil, this hud dropped
to 1077.
Parents were showing an active in
schools, while but. l.'!2 found time to
do any school visiting in March,
1 ni're re 2" ami ij gins in
me
schools over the age of 20 and no
children under the age of six.
The city council and the engineer of
the Southern Pacific, met yesterday aft-
1 eraoon at State anil Twelfth street, and
' ut , f""1
'Hnuthern Pacific
that nenrlv all the
, N"llhern ""'l" crossings were not at
K,au'- lnB mnrouu oniciui ngrceu io
remedy this.
, to believe that armed conflict with the
j L'liitoil States would be suicidal for the
de facto regime. Consequently it h be-
neveu uiui aner cai-u sum iri- i m
, ment before reaching a final agreement,
i This may drag the parleys along '.or
I more than a week.
1 General P. Klias Culles, governor ff
j Sonora, is reported en route to Ju'iriv.
to join Obrcgon.
KUT-EL-AWIARA IS TAKEN
WAS BESIEGED 1 40 DAYS
2970 English and 6,000 Indian Troops Captured by Turks
Relief Forces Halted 23 Miles Away by Heavy Floods
Starved Into Submission Garrison Left by General
Nixon After Defeat at Bagdad, Destroys All Guns and
Munitions Before Surrendering
London, April 29. The British garrison of 2,970 Eng
lish and 6,000 Indian troops, which has been besieged in
Kut-el-Amara by the Turks for more than 140 days, has
surrendered, it was announced today by the war office. ;
This is the first instance of the present war, and one
of the few occasions in more than a century, in which a
besieged British garrison has surrendered.
The Kut-el-Amara garrison has been believed in ser
ious danger for several days because of lack of food. Of
ficials made no attempt to minimize the gravity of General
Townshed's position.
Official statements last night told of an unsuccessful
effort to run a food ship on the" Tigris river through the
Turkish lines. This indicated that the predicament of
the British was desperate.
Floods blocked relief forces which are now' 23 miles !
east of the city. Turks trapped General Townshed in
Kut-el-Amara early in December after the Bagdad cam
paign had collapsed.
Townshed destroyed all the garrison's guns and muni-
iinna Kofnvo en rvonrl A vi n cr Sir .TiYhn NlYnn nprurtipd Kilt-
el-Amara on September 19, 1915, and advanced to within
10 miles of Bagdad where on November 26 he was de
feated and, retreating, suffered another defeat when his
xrabian volunteers deserted and joined the Turks.
Nixon left Townshend with a force estimated by the
Turks as 10,000 and also left large quantities of supplies,
believing that a relief expedition wouldlater reach him.
Nixon didn't want the Turks to have Kut-el-Amara bar
ring, another advance on Bagdad.
Subsequently, Nixon was relieved of his command, Sir
Percy Lake succeeding him. Dardanelles veterans then
tried to relieve the garrison.
INVOLVED IN IHEFT
Former Stool Pigeon Says the
Oncers Aided Him to
Work Out Scheme
According to the eon fens-ton of A. 1).
Kmerson, who was nrrested iu Portland
yesterday by Sheriff Ksch, Declcctive
Smith nnd ('ruddock, of the Portland
Police department, planned the theft (f
the auto of Felix Isumson, of Aurora,
rested a few days iign by Sheriff Ksch
which wag taken by Keam Foley nnd
r. ix.i.i t!,.i,l iin.l Tiilcv were ar-
inii are now in ine couiiiv an. iniy
implicated Kmerson in their statements
to the officers and Kmerson told the
sheriff ami District Altorney Itmgo
that the detectives urged linn to induce
Iteid and Foley to take the car from
the garage at Aurora.
Kmerson told the district attorney
thiH morning that all three of them
Koid, Foley and Kmerson wer,. .i"'''"
drivers iu Portland anil that he had
known the others for some time. Kmer
son said he had been a stool pigeon for
the dtestives ia some nuto thefts in
Portland. He said the officers wanted
to mnkc an arrest and recover a car aim
incidently to get a little reward out of
it so they told Kmerson to persuade
Iteid and Foley to steal a car.
Kmerson said lie told Iteid and Foley
that he had a purchaser for a car if
they only had the car and Iteid and
Foley agreed to get one. They told
Kmerson that they knew of a car but
that it was about 40 miles out of Port
land. Kmerson reported this informa
tion to the detectives who told Kmer
son not to lose any time but to tako
the boys while they were in the notion.
Kmerson accordingly secured a car to
take tho boys to their destination, the
officers furnished the gasoline, two ex
tra number plates, nnd a five gallon
can nf gasoline to be used in cne the
car they were to get did not have gaso
HnA in the tank.
Kvervthing appears to have worked
out all' right and the two boys got the
Isaacson car and drove it to Portland
where they were arrested by Detectives
Craddoek anil Smith who got the credit
for mnkii'g a "pinch. "
" Well, where were vou to profit by
the theft o the cur."' Kiuerjoa was
asked by the sheriff.
Kmerson answered that a reward was
usually offered for the return of a
stolen auto by tho insurnnco companies
and tho owner mid that the detectives
had agreod to split with him on tne
reward.
district Attorney ltingo says tho de
velopments in the case show that De
tectives Smith and Craddovk aro liable
j to prosecution as accomplice in the
theft of the car and ine opinion wu.i
expressed that Kiiieison acted in good
faith with the Portland detectives ia
inducing the boys to sleul it.
The Portland detectives aro expect
ed to arrive here this afternoon to mako
some explanations in the mutter. Over
the long distance telephone they told
Sheriff Ksch that Deputy District At
torney Pieck advised them to proceed,
as they had dono in the enso and that
they had acted upon the advicu of tha
district attorney's office.
Prices Uncertain But
Show Little Change
New York, April 2!!. The New York
KveiiniL' Sun s iiuaniiiu rcvu.
niuu.
Aside from n sharp advance in Mer
cantile Marine preferred shortly aft
er the opening, little interest marked
the early trading. First prices were gen
erally irregular and dealings were pro
fessional. Uncertainties in connectioa
with tho flermnn and Mexican situa
tions, the short session and other week
end considerations restrained trnding.
" further silver advance strengthened
silver producing companies, but copper
stocks wero generally irregular. Ana
conda was reactionary. Prices hardened
t i. ..i..u;., l.i,Vf ..I thn spssion under
t; Iir()f,.ionnl buying in a limited
i r0lp 0f specialties. Mercantil Marino
i f(rr(,( nmi Maxwell Motors ad
vanced fivo
points or more. Honda
wero quiet and irregular.
Eugene Company hero turning eut
ready cut knock down houses.
I THE WEATHER ;
Oregon: Fair to
night ind Bun
day; heavy frost
tonight; warm
er Sunday; wost-
Iv wintti.
IHlT'ER OUT)
i
