'.MAILS";..''.'. ...
From 'Frisco
Manoa, Oct 31.
Per -'Frisco .
Wilhelmlna, Nov. 1.
From Vancouver
Niagara, Not. 1, :
For Vancouver
Makura, Not. 10.
i
o
"5 1o o
V
12 PAGES-HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF. HAWAII, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 191G.-12 PAGES.
price five cext3
WW
A
1 j
; I M I ; - . i i i ;
m ;
V
'.-- "v'V . ". .-'---vv .: - ' V . -.'.:.. "... .- . - . . -..:-,::. II , - - i.
Evening P.iiIJetln, Est. 1S2, No. CRJo -
Hawanajftstarj :
r'T! A77i7 ii in 1
n
': .. I I MM m !' 1 kl
Travelers From South Tell of
r Demand Made on American
.,'.' Southerly Outpost -
SHORTENING. OF LINES
' -ASKED AS PRELIMINARY
vrfninn Movement to Sur
' rcjnd Insurcent Forces
CCLUMBUS, -M, Oct. 28. A de
tachment of ViHIatia. cperatlna near
, Natiiqulpa, which la but 25 mile
- lObin CT me moil iouui wv
- of Fershina'a punitive expedition, has
sent io the commanding officer at
. that coint a demand that the Ameri
can troop line ahall be shortened and
that this ahall be followed- by r Bad-
uar witnarawar cr ine Torcea ot nv
United States expedition to the bor
; der srd its return to tie" states. "
This 1c the reoort that was brought
here toiay by traveler and refugees
arriving from the. south. "' "'.
SCOUTING PARTIES MEET,.
' SEVERAL RECELS SLAIN
(ARsoointed Pr if Federal. "W1r1)
EL PASO, Tex,' Oct. 28 Forces of
Carrsnrittas and Vllllataa have been
en-: ::d In a sharp skirmish In the vi
cir cf the Hearst ranch lands. Sev
ers! cf the bandits are reported to
havs teen klUed. . . '
.It Is L:lieved here that the VillisU
part v,-3 a ba.id cf skirmishers from
the (:rca that is reported to be oper
'at;.-j sround Namlquipa. " ' ; v
THIVP'O DEFIES THAT
' i:i L'c:s Ar:.:u:imori
' (Akor '...'.. i Trei ly Federal Wirele)
CHI! 'L'M'JA CITY, fex., Oct. 2S.
i t .r. overrent by- Cr-
ra : ' : f-rcea Vra .teen commenced
and ii vvt.I underway.- 'Santa Ysatel
Is lis cLJ::tive point- General TrevW
has - c-:ci. :'His p'an I3 to sur
rcur.J ft. J cut eff the malrr force of
the VilCstss. . .'.-' - ': '
.Trevino emphatically"'denles the re
port tzt hr (a shcrt of arms, ammu
.nition cr other equipment. '..
- -
w I f
... t . 4 i i twitit J
r ' o t '
- r 1
v. I
- ll lie 3js
d'Wachinstcn Puzzled to Account
fcr So Hany Women-Folk
4 : at San AntqniO;:'-';:
(ARRorio'teA rrpss'ky Federal WirrlfM)
' '.- " . ' v. -
WASHINGTON, D. C, Oct 26.
4 nrpcrts sHowinj: that members-
of the Carranza, O'uregon, TfevN
-f no, Jluerta ar.d ..Madero families
f have rarrJy gone to San Auttv
nlo and are. residing there are
puzzling Observers 6f the Mex-
, icrn situation. An explanation is -f
" bflns sought of the fact that the
-f- families of many Mexican offl-.-t--."4-
cials are being font to the United
States and apparently '.near to
pettier there. Some Taelieve that -f
the move is on account "of eco- 4
nomic conditions, and that social
conditions in the ravaged repub- -f
lie are such that, wealthy Jlexi-
'4- cans are anxious to have their -f.
. women-folk leave .the country.
Others think the present Carran-
'z& government may be tottering"
- and the leaders are getting ready
.to riee to the United States if
they should be defeated.. r
4- -f 4- 4- M 4- 4 4 4 4 4 4 4
1 rr'i.r, r'l?'
. .
r- rr-r- "nr. p!"
-iat ksi tkU li..
L'urses Carry Patients to Safety
' Just Ahead of Leaping -.
' Flarr.es . .
r .. . . .
(Associated Pre by Federal Wirele)
FARNHAM, Quebec, Oct 26. Six
a dults and H ve children were .killed
. today in a fire wbica destroyed . St.
Hizabeth's HospitaL Twenty others
were injured by jumping. Some In
mates of the hospital are reported
missing. ' ". J -c '.; ' s -'
Exciting scenes were wftnessed
when nurses .and other attendants car
ried to ' safety a number of helpless
and ' bed-rfdden' patients, and several
narrow escapes were recorded."; '
- x- f
Additional . Telegraph despatches
Fi;t!ished on. Page 9;
K8U0M.:'
ic c:.::;:! g'jt
City Engineer Finds Work is
JJot Up to Requirement and
Acts With Decision
Trouble over the work being done
on the Manoa frontage Improvement
dlrlct, which has been brewing1 for
some time, came to a head today when
alt curbing work was ordered torn out
because, City Engineer Collins main
tains, it does not conform to specifi
cations. Also, William G. Allen; en
ineer in charge, resigned because he
djd not receive sufficient cooperation
from tne San Francisco office; v
It has been known that there iad
been trouble among the workmen on
the Job because they iiad not teceived
their pay from F. R. Ritchlb &. Com
pany, contractor, when It, was due aiid
a number of them have left, includ
ing Charles Clark, foreman,' who re
turned to work for the city. ' Today
residents of Manoa valley, headed by
Edwin Benner and A. C. Corneleson,
announced that they were ready to
protest the poor grade of work being
put in unless something was done,
their specific objections being: that
the curbing has not been 'placed' on
a compact base and Is not aligned;
that the concrete has not been .work
ed so that the mortar is flush against
the forms, and as a result Is full of
pores and pockets; and that the forms
should have been removed just be
fore the concrete hardened and a brush
used to give the surface a uniform
surface instead of which cement bias
ter was used to hide the catlties and
rough places tn the concrete.
George Collins, city engmeer, said
today that he had condemned the
work a week ago, and at the time
had told Benner -what he had done.
Today when he called up and found
that nothing had been- done; he order
ed the curLIng on Ferdinand' avenue
be torn out at once, and' instructed
Fred Pierce, assiftant city engineer
in charg. to see that it was done re
gardless of any protests from the ion
trectors " V ' ''' ''. '
It is understood that F. H. Ritchie,
brother of F. R. ' Ritchie, contractor,
is now in charge of the work which
is proceeding as usual today. It was
announced 'Wednesday that all ; the
workmen had been' paid the, money
due, It having arrived from San Fran
cisco Tuesday.
Allen said that he had wired his res
ignation td San- Francisco Tuesday,
and today had left the work. He also
said that he had . . resigned several
weeks ago, but that Ritchie Induced
him to continue at work, but as the
lack of cooperation between Ritchie at
San Francisco and himself continued,
he decided it would be impossible for
him to work for Ritchie longer than
today. '
NATION NEED NOT FEAR
EUROPE AFTER WAR IS ,
STATEMENT OF WILSON
- . -.. . V, , ... . , ;
(A&soeiated Presa by Federal Wireless)
CINCINNATI. Ohio, Octr 26. Pre
sident Wilson in his speech here this
evening declared that the present war
is the last one there will ever be in
volvlns the world which the United
States can keep out of. He'advocated
a-league of nations to maintain peace
after the war. . f .. . x ..' "' '
Wilson denied Republican conten
tions that as at present constituted
the United States is unprepared to
meet the opposition of Europe. He
said there is no ground' to fear that
Europe is storing up goods to dump
into Amercan markets after the war.
"We have -means, defensive and offens
ive to prevent it We are not help
less. We are not blind. We should
sympathize with Europe rather than
fear.- ' :i f '
CINCINNATI, O, Oct 26. Presi
dftnt Wilson, sneakine to the Cham
ber of Commerce here this evening.
urged the need xf -spiritual unity m
thft United SUtes. He called on the
people to prepare for the greater work
ahead of the nation. "Our task will
be much greater- In the future, he
Bald ' "We have got to make a team
of ourselves and pull the great chariot
in which rides the Statue of Liberty.'
REPUBLICANS WILL
HOLD FOUR RALLIES
1 IN CITY THISL R. fl
Four Republican campaign .meetings
re scheduled for this evening, une
will be held at Fort and Kukul streets
with E. P." Fogarty presiding; anoth
er will be held at the Liltuokalanl
school, Kaimuki, and the third will be
In the rooms of the United Chinese
Society, King street The last named
meeting will be for the benefit of
Chinese voters. The fourth meeting
will be held at the Kalihl pumping
station. At' 7:30 o'clock tomorrow
evening a rally for businessmen will
be held In Bishop park, opposite the
Alexander Young hotel 'building.
There will be speeches, musie and
moving pictures. ' J ; " t ; r
-' ; a . ' -
Two meetings" wiirbe "TieTir this
evening by Democratic candidates,
one at Moiliili- schoolyard and the
ether in Jack lane, Nuuanu.
Late
, BRIGADIER-GENERAL MAN N HEADS MILITIA AFFAIRS
WASHINGTON, D. C, Oct. 26. Brig.-Gen.- Williani rann,' now.lrt com
mand of division headquarters at Laredo, Texas, has been named to succeed
eip U tH VqiV H'0-f'W 'Mffle ' rni,'t!a :TwV-''v :'''.';'.'
FEDERAL SITE HEARING SET FOR NOV. 8.
The Initial bearing In the suit' brought by the government to con
demn the Irwin, site, selected for Honolulu's new federal building,, will be
t-eld In federal court at rVclock on the afternoon of November 8.
SEEK PROBATE OF DOCTOR MOORE'S WILL
A petition for the probate of the will of the late Dr. W. I Moore
was filed' in circuit court this afternoon. The estate consists of real estate
valued at $2230 and personal property valued at $5653.73. i The heirs are
Nellie L. Moore, widow, and Alice, Carol and Eloise Moore, daughters. The
petition asks that the wido be appointed executrix. ; ; '
' FIRST ACCOUNTS OF SMART GUARDIAN FILED
The first annual accounts of the- Trent Trust Company, guardian of
the property of four-year-old Richard Smart, son of the late Thelma T. K.
Farker Smart, were filed in circuit court this' afternoon, i The,accounts show
an Income of $21,785.36 and disbursements in the sum' of $18,602.98, leav
ing balance of $3182.38. ' . ' "" ' ' . ,
' ' -i ' 1 .'' 'r ' 1 '" "'-' "'- .- -
CHARGE BOY WITH TH EFTS AT PUBLIC BATHS V
; The mystery' of missing valuables irom dressing rooms at the public
baths. Waikiki; Is thought to "have been solved by the Arrest, this after
noon of a4l-yekr-old Portuguese boy by Probation. Officer Joe Leal The
boy told Leaf that: he bad only entered the' dressing rooms once, and that
he had been taught to do it by his cousin. Leal Is now . looking for- the
cousin. -. U ": v;:.1;1';-;.,' '..:' ' ' ; X,'. .:;-,';v''.'';:-.,'''-";.-V
- STRIKERS TOLD JAPANESE CAW HAVE WORK ;
" Japanese laoorers on the waterfront who lost their positions during
the strike 'can secure reemployment as fast as positions open and in turn
in the order of their registration with McCabe. Hamilton & Renny and ho
discrimination will be shown as to race or membership or nonmembership
in unions. ; This U a statement made by the Pan-Pacific Club to the Japa
nese Association In a letter received by the latter this afternoon. It was
written in reply to requests that 'the Pan-Pacific Club use it influence
to secure the ending of alleged discrimination against Japanese. The let
ter further states that the statement is made after consultation with all
the employers of longshore labor. "It is Intended -to remove the last
ground for contention by union workers that there is discrimination being
shown against Japanese labor. ; " !"-.'.-:'":; ';-
. .. iNTEMSLANO TO ISSUE SCHEDULE OF CHANGES
Officials of the Inter-Island Company plan to issue soon a" supple
ment of various changes of rates which they have decided upon, according
to the testimony of Vice-President James L. McLean in the utilities hearing
tnis afternoon. McLean said that one of these wlll.be an Increase in the
rate on scrap' Iron which could formerly be handled with comparative, ease,
but which has now come to be made up of so many pieces of all sorts and
sizes that it takes front two to three times- as long, to ' handle the same
amount In weight. " : ' , - . - '.'' ' ' ' ';"' ' .
. It' is also planned to raise the rate on liquors to Kauai, to correspond
with" the minimum charge on merchandise. - ' McLean named one; port for
example, where Che . charge, wilL.be, 4 0 .cents , Instead; 05 as at. present
The'raU on automobiles" to Kaunakakai, Molokai, will be8 reduced; a Change
offered and discussed with George P. Cooke - before he brought it up In
the hearing some weeks ago. Norma n'Gedge took the stand later in the
meeting to giva' figures on steamship values. He gave the book value of
the Inter-Island vessels as of January 1,' $1,416,568.34, but said with the
present call for shipping they are actually worth $500,000 more, and the
total would probably not replace them. ; . ' ' "' -' '"' ' : '..'V-;' 'c
IlP-nRnmtmr
IIOLGS H? J33
; at rum
Concrete 'Piles Never Cracked.
I . ' fUlw' -a Cur or '
Because the concrete piles-to :be
used as foundation work for' thef new
wharf at 1 'a wili will,;', Kauai, . show
mMtra" nr "rnects" : wEich are- de
clared by Assistant Engineer William
Fcrer to- render them - imperfect; and
because" Ed . Lord' of ' the LdrfY ouhg
Engineering Company absoiuieiy re
fuses to follow the remedy outlined
for him to make' them : better; a inear
crisis Was ! Precipitated today at a
speciaf meeting of thd' harbor Uoardf?
In the course of . the meeting It de
veloped that the contractors had been
ordered to. cease driving piles on Oc
tober 17'by Inspector R. H. Lowrie,
there being only three driven at that
time, and that the order was not car
ried out but that all 12 of the piles
Were driven following it and caps
put upon them. It was stated today
.that the pile driver is ; now removed
from the site. J '.
' After considerable discussion in
which Furer and Ed Lord had the
leading parts. Commissioner Tom
Church . moved that the superinten
dent pf public works be authorized to
make detailed plans for correcting the
Imperfections that the' work be stop
ped at once, and that the contractor
be called upon to carry out the sug
gestions; made. : V
' Forbes' plans will probably be the
placing of a . four-inch concrete6helI
about the piles, after they have been
wound'with No. 0 wire. .
' If Lord. refuses to carry them out,
and he refused verbally today, the
board will order the Vork to proceed
under the territory and at the expense
of the contractor. Lord declared, to
day that the suggestions outlined are
impossible, though this statement was
not borne out by Furer or Forbes. The
contractor objects' strenuously to put
ting cases down into the gravel of the
harbor bottom. He said the cases
might be put Into the sand, but that
it was unreasonable to try to go deep
er than this. .
1 Just why Lord authorized his men
to proceed with the wort after, the
order to stop-had been Issued was not
made clear today, though the contract
or stated twice that Forbes had told
him to go ahead" with the "driving. This
statement Forbes neither admitted
nor denied.- ;;-f '- ; ':' ' ; '.
Furer's visit to Kauai at, the fame
time with" Lord, was made, to-study the
piles. He said today that they show
numerous cracks -which. , run around
(Continued on page two)
At A" :GlaEce
FBHEAREASE
OF JESSE Dili
Three Witnesses Called First
Day of Second Trial; Which
v May Last for Week
That Jesse' puke, negro,; charged
with murderr declined to assist in re
moving O. P. George , to the hospital
after the"" latter ' had been found t
Schofield Barracks shortly after mid
night en January 19, suffering from a
wound on the back of his bead, in
flicted byt some heavy instrument, was
nntv hf the statements made in the
federal court today by John 'a. Hogan.
the third witness called by' the gov
ernment. & . ' ' : - '
i ! Duke is charged with the murder
'.ot George; the latter having been era-!ployed.-
at the barracks as a stable
watchmahi T)uke was- in charger' of
the' incinerators. ' The first- trial' of
; Duke " resulted In a cohiction,'' but
Judge C. F. Clemons granted a new
trial, this having begun today.
' Hogan, also employed at the, bar
' racks declares that on the night of
:the alleged murder hewas awakened
by Duke, who said: "Old Georgei. is
lying on the road knocked out Duke
told the . witness it: was about 12:15
o'clock. -. .' : ; " ' ' " " . .':"",'
"I got up and dressed . and went
out," the witness continued; In sub
stance. "I could see th body lying
,in ther road. The body" was- about ltf
fcteps from the' south- Incinerator.
George was lying od his back witlj his
hands clasped across his breast! - He
was groaning; There was at pool of
blood near his head. ' The body was
taken- to the- hospital Duke- declined
to assist. In removing the body- to the
hospitaL- Ha said he had bis. work
to: do and would go to . the hospital
fcter." --'.: .' :"..' '
Among documents Introduced in evi
dence todar was theexecutive . order
signed by Presiuent McKinley approv
ing recommendations that Schofield
Barracks be set aside as a military
reservation. A sketch of the vicinity
of the aneged murder, prepared by
the. U. S. ' engineer's office, also was
introduced. " Other witnesses were N.
H, Duvall, a civil engineer, and-Sgt.
Ernest Meyers, Company I, U. S. Engi
5crs " -1 " - v- - '"
1 The jury, completed this morning,
includes the following: : , .
: C. T. LitUejohn,,Jr Antone V. Mar
ciek' George. F. Renton, Jr Manuel I.
Cabral, John H. Dye, Charles ; E.
Hooper.- R. E. Cockett,. William Carey,
J. D. Lewis W; TRapoxo, Daniel H.
King and George;, IL Lynch. . '
-The average : speed of the phono
graph record -under the needle Is 1.82
miles an hour. , ' ; '
l-W 111 lulill I IU
CnmitDiftOLQCEt 1
0;!i:;y'i!l"AVL
Supervisors Likely to. Pass
$3000 Appropriation Over
Deputy Attorneys' Protest
A- brief conference Just before noon
today between Supervisor Daniel Lo
gan and A. L. Castle of counsel for
the Rapid Transit pointed to a new
tttempt to end the deadlock on relo
cation of tracks which threatens .0
hold up Kalakaua avenue's paving Im
provement. ,
The Rapid Transit is understood to
be favorably Inclined to proceed with
the laying of temporary tracks in the
middle of the street if the board will
pass a resolution appropriating $4000
for its half of the expense of relocate
log the rails.;. Both sides are "taking
chances" by this method, as the board
faces, r the probability .-- that either
Deputy City Attorney Cristy or Car
denn will start injunction proceedings,
both of these deputies having threat
ened such action because they hoi J
the city has no legal right to-appro
priate money for such a purpose. The
Rapid Transit takes a chance that
court decision on such injunction ap
plication might hold against the city
supervisors, but the street railway
company is understood to be willing
to proceed with the work nevertheless,
even if injunction proceedings are be
gun, trusting to some kindly provk
dence to see it through.
One kindly providence to which the
Rapid ; Transit Company does not
trust, however, is that represented by
Charles R. Forbes, who,. In his ca
pacity as a citizen and not superin
tendent of public works, went out and
raised $3000 by public subscription to
take the . place of the city's share
which the supervisors feared to appro
priate.; ,' ;.;.-'-'-;.';
When- the Star-Bulletin published
the news yesterday that the Rapid
Transit would refuse to accept the
purse Forbes had made up from sun
dry citizens, it seemed tr fall iike-'a
blow upon 'various people who ' had
hoped that Forbes had ended the
deadlock. Immediately ensued a va
riety of happenings. Forbes sent his
letter to the supervisors, as this paper
had predicted, telling of the money ne
had raised. He did not mention that
the Rapid Transit refused to accept
it, although the Rapid Transit says he
knew this fact the previous day. since
the refusal was made in his presence.
The supervisors; therefore, when they
met late yesterday, had Forbes' let
ter .before them, with the official, in
formation that the way was clear, and
at the same time if they had read
the afternoon paper they - knew the
Rapid Transit Company had refused
the coin. ' A- - ' '
The supervisors received the letter
and referred it to the road commit
tee. Forbes- said he had not been
-officially notified" ,: of the Rapid
Transit's action and there this phase
of the matter. still rests.
The : later, developments ' center
around accusations id the-Advertiser
this morning that Governor Pinkham,
out of enmity, to the Rapid Transit,
was behind Forbes in putting; the
Rapid Transit "In a hole" through this
offer of public subscription. .These
f Continued oti page, two)
S. E. Busser. Tells What Santa
Fe Does for Employes; R. A.
Beebe Talks on Wireless
. ... v- . ; v
1 : Members of the Rotary Club listen
ed to two entertaining talks at the
luncheon today at. the Commercial
Club, from authorities connected with
two of the big corporations of Ameri
ca.; " ';'. '.; t": "'; - -:';;,';- .'---.' '
S. E. Busser,. superintendent of the
reading rooms of the Santa Fe Sys
tem, explained to' the members thft
results that had been obtained from
establishing the libraries throughout
the system. In' his talk he told how
President Ripley had organized and
fostered the system of entertainment
for, employes ami encouraged new sug
gestions among the 85,000 workers.
j : Speakers : are secured from educa
I tional " institutions, according to BuS-
ser, and a library costing isuu.uuu nas
been established. The libraries have
been the means of Increasing the ef
ficiency of the men, and schools have
gladly cooperated In furnishing many
of the educational works.
R. A. Beebe, chief constructing en
gineer, of the Federal Wireless Sys
tem, explained the Poulsen system as
used by the government in the station
at Pearl Harbor, San Diego and other
centers. ; ' ..:'-.:.' ' "'
Beebe's talk proved to.be very in
teresting to the laymen, and although
necessarily technical was given in a
manner that was1 understood. He . ex
plained the control of the waves, and
the various workings of - the - system
under various conditions. -
IHMRI1S HE!
TALIS FffifWB
CfllaMIBKtli
RUMANIANS CLAIM SOME
AND TRANSYLVANIA FRONTS BUT CANNOT HOLD BACK
MACKENSEN IN DOBRUDJA FRENCH IN MACEDONIA
TAKE VILLAGES :V ;
7 Pp!in Off. Thft new "ilrive" of tlie French, boffim
at Vertlnn two da s ajju and sticcfiwful from the moment the infautrv
. . aim 1 . . - ,
leaped from their trenelies ami ciiargdi at uie iwitereu -ravniv, i im
ing prosecuted relentlessly,. -
In three hours on the Ilrst day the French irjrained P'ound it had
fnnr mniitlm to wrt from them. The batterinjr
i.4AnhV as ft v v .
ton continued night and day since
within S00 yanis of Fort Vanx, one or the mam super's or erunn.
They have nli"eady reaptured Pouaumout and the fall.of Vnu.v is
momentarily expected. V .
Germans Forced From Pouauir,:?:;
' Mackensen Continues His Furcu!:
BERLIN, Oermany, Oct. 2rt. Further attacks were made by the.
French today at Fort Douaumont and Fort Vaux but they were re
pulsed.1 The Germans evacuated Douaumont prior to its capture by
the French."
" On the Dobrudja front the successes of von M.ackensen continue.
His troops have gained ground on the road to Sinaya.J The Russians
made an advance against German positions west of Lutk, but tl."
storming Russian waves were downed under steady German artillery
fire. -;;:' :. ; "... ; - ' . - -
A bridge across the Danube has been dynamited.
Rumanians Claim Some Pre'":::
BUCHAREST, Bumania, Oct. 26. The' Rumanians are mnkin
gopd progress in their eampaigns.,Qn theiilda.yia. and Trar.rvivr.nia
flints. They have -captured-Mount Keiekharas. south of lUau, :;:;.!
fighting continues in the Oituz valley, beyond thrv Rumanian Ijoh!. r.
The Teutons have been driven back everywhere beyond the. western,
border of Moldavia, suffering heavy losses. v: ; , ;
Austria Claims Serb' PriconerD Bb
' ' '.'' . : ' " ;
BERLIN, Germany, Oct. 20. The Austro-Hungarian foreign of
fice has made public its latest "Red Book" dealing with alleged atro
cities.;" The book lists 116 abases which are termed violations of inter
national law. It declares these violations were committed by cncn.v
countries, and asserts that out of a total of C1,00O Austro-Husp-ariaa
prisoners in the hands of the Serbs, 33,000 to 40,000 have died.
French Cavalry Helps Serb Can:
;,;.'-.; ..'' : ; ..'..'. v
,:; PARIS, France, Oct. 26. French cavalry is operating now on
the Macedonian front and supporting the Serbians. It has enptum!
the villages of Golobrda and Iaisitsii, southwest of Inke Doiran. Tin
Serbians have administerel a impulse to the'Teutons in the region of
the Czerna river.
German Submarnes Continue Ac'ivo
, LONDON, Eng., Oct. 26. The British steiinier Sidmouth yaa
sunk in the war zone today. The British mine-sweeper Genista wr.n
torpedoed and all pflicers and 7.' of the crew were lost. Only 12 sur
vivors have been found. Y . 'V
GERMAN OFFICIAL
CABLEGRAMS
GERMAN HEADQUARTERS, Oct.!
26. Report of Oct. 25. On the west
era line, Crown Prince Rupprecht's
front, there was little fighting activi
ty yesterday on account of bad waath
er. Only artillery fire was temporari
ly increased. In the evening hours
partiaT French, attacks from the line j
of Les Boeufs-Rancourt broke down
with losses before pur ' barricades
without success.
On the Crown Prince's front, north
east Verdun f rent, the French attack
with the burning of Fort Douamont
gained some terrain. Here fighting
continues.
Eastern arena, Prince Leopold's
front:' Russian, gas attack on - the
Shutshara failed. Likewise attack of
Russian battalions near Kolostrov,
northwest of Luck was without any
success whatever.
On Archduke Carl's front, south part
of the Carpathian forest, during minor
engagements heights remained in our
possession. On the Transylvanian
east front the situation Is unchanged.
North of Kampolung our attack pro
gressed. Vulkan pass has been tak
en by Germajr and Austrian troops
storming hand to hand,;
Balkans: Field Marshal von Mack
ensen is making progress in pursuing
the fleeing Russians and Rumanians.
Czernavovda was captured this morn
ing. The details are not yet . known.
By this capture the . Rumanian army
operating in the Dobrudja was de
prived of its la? t railroad communica
tion and an exceedingly important suc
cess gained. ' '
. On the Macedonian front all 13 quiet
' The ' ?Tci:i-!?y Y ?:
dare- TV' :'
o:l r4. '
1
1 -
W4Sasai4 mJ w 1
SUCCESSES ON MOLDAVIA
----- - .
that time and the French are: now
i NEW YORK STOCK - I
I MARKET TODAY i
. Today.
.. 131
.. 94
107
djy.
12;i.
M3
122-;
131'. 4
1C7U
81
.: v
. 2:?s
Alaska Gold
American Smelter
American Suqar Rffl. . . .
American Tel. & Tel....
Anaconda Copper ......
Atchison
Baldwin. Loco. .........
Baltimore & Ohio.......
Eethlehem Steel .......
Calif. Petroleum " .... . .
3! 8
22VZ
Canadian Pacific
CM.i St. P. (St Pau!)
Colo. Fuel A. Iron 4
17
C-4
Crucible Steel ......
Erie Common
''3::
3 -,
General Electric
General Motors
Creat Northern Pfd...
Inter. Harv N. J... ..
Kennecott Copper ......
Lehigh R. R ..
New York Central.....
Pennsylvania
Ray Ccntol. ...........
.. 11SV2
:..ii7
.. 53
.. K7Ta
11 c-.
in
r" ',
r'.i
i: "
Hit
Southern Pacific 1:
3
Studebaker V. ... 133
Tennessee Copper IV
Texas Oil . .... 2ZZ
Union Pacific ......... 151
U. S. Steel............. 1i:3
U. S. Steel Pfd......... 121 U
Utih ..
Western Union ........ 1C . s
Westinhouse ' C
Did. tZx-tWlizri
0
L
CAN FHA'.'C!
