Ub'rw
TjHHtl (I (1
Volume 24
WILLIAMS, COCONINO COUNTY, ARIZONA. THURSDAY, OCT. 26, 1916
Number 48
JOINIIST AND BOOT
AN
Kansas was not the first state to adopt a prohibition amendment
to a state constitution but she has worked out prohibition policies more
completely than an' other. For 35 years she has been engaged in a
fight with the infamous liquor traflic. During that time she has had
to amend her prohibition laws to make them more effective. At the
end of 35 years there is violation of her prohibition laws as there is of
all of her other laws. Probably her prohibition laws are violated more
than her other laws tho the difference is not great, and probably they
will continue to be violated more than other laws as long as people look
upon laws which protect property rights as more important than law3
which are designed to protect youth from the baneful and destructive
attacks of the rum demon as long as property is considered of more
importance than character.
ECONOMIC ASPECT OF PROHIBITION
However, the liquor traffic is being judged more and more by its
economic cost to society, and when once the fact that booze causes hun
dreds of millions of dollars of loss to our country every year without
contributing anything in the way of gain is fully realized, manhood will
be estimated as of economic alue and as much worth saving as any
real property.
PARTY TIES DISREGARDED
Kansas has found that her prohibition laws have been effective in
direct proportion to the zeal and
whose duty it is to enforce the law.
inc? nrohibition laws as other laws,
the liquor interests. If her officials winked at tue violation of her pro
hibition laws, liquor sales were increased, joints appeared and the boot
legger plied his low-lived trade with consequent increase of crime and
poverty. So Kansas has become quite particular as to whom she elects
.to" the offices of public prosecutor and sheriff. She has found it
best to disregard party lines, if by doing so she could fill these offices
with men who would be true to their oath of office, without discrimin
ation as to the laws to be enforced. With a betterment in the incum
bency of these offices prohibition prohibits very effectually.
ARIZONA THE LATEST RECRUIT
' Arizona, the latest recruit for the ranks of prohibition states, may
well profit by the experience of her sister," Kansas. Her prohibition
legislation has developed a weakness and the thing to do is to strength
en it by a new enactment. The voters of Arizona will see to this Nov.
7. Some of her county officials have shown a lukewarnaness in the en
forcement of her prohibition laws. They must be replaced by men who
will show the same zeal in the enforcement of prohibition laws as in
the enforcement of other laws. The voters of Arizona must hold the
success of party candidates subordinate to the . proper enforcement of
state laws. Candidates for district prosecutor and sheriff who. do not
give promise of a faithful performance of official duty all along the
line must be defeated.
NOW FOR CASES
' County officials who excuse their Jack of activity in enforcing the
prohibition laws on the grounds that convictions can not be secured and
are disposed to hide behind the personal use decision may be referred
to Arizona officials who secure convictions and there are a number of
them. Their attention may. be called to the activities of County Attor
ney Clyde M. Gandy of Maricopa County, who recently secured con
viction? in Kingman, Mohave County. The skepical predicted failure,
but County Attorney Gandy won easily.. This is not an isolated case.
A determination on the part of prosecuting officials to punish law vio
lations has won success.
The case of Coconino county is no more desperate than that of
other counties. It should be easier to secure convictions in Coconino
county than in many others, since there is little mining here.
COCONINO COUNTY OFFICIALS CULPABLE
The joints and boot-leggers in Coconino county have become active
since the personal use decision was rendered, not because that decision
gives them protec tion but because public prosecutors in Coconino coun
ty "make it an excuse for winking at law violations. If jointists and
boot-leggers can be convicted by Clyde M. Gandy in Mohave county,
why may not convictions be secured in Coconino co'inty? The appar
ent reason is that Coconino county officials "lay down."
TRY JOHN O. HARRINGTON
The sheriff of Coconino county has established a reputation for de
tective skill but the boot-legger cares nothing for that. He feels im
mune and carries on, his business quiet brazenly. The jointist has
again appeared seen thru his work, perhaps, more than by actual
sight and he too has lost fear of prosecution. Does the personal use
decision give to thepe violators of the laws of clean social conditions im
munity from prosecution and punishment? . Ask. prosecutor Gandy.
fio, immunity comes from the inactivity of our public officials..
The remedy for these deplorable conditions must, fvidently, come
thru a change of officers. Some one must he placed in those offices
who will exhausst'legal recources to put the jointists and boot-leggers
out of business and since John O. Harrington, candidate for sheriff, be
lieves the law may be u'setTto suporess th".! jointist and boot legger, and
promises to so use it, if elected,, voters of Coconino county are invited
to lay aside party bias and give him a chance. Adverlisment.
For Sale:-Team, wagon and har
ness. $100. Hostetters Ranch,
Garland Prairie. Address P. M. j
Gilmore, Parks. Arizona. 10-12 11-2 !
Room for rent-Outside entrance
. airy and sunny, across from
school house. Mrs," - W. : L.-.Mc-Cullough.
' tf, adv.
- LEGGERS
BE PUT OUT OF BUSINESS
abilty displayed by public officials
If they were as zealous in enforc-H
thev made a very barren field for
Aid Society Entertained
The Aid Society of the M. E.
church held its regular monthly
meeting at the home of Mrs. T.
H. Cure ton yesterday afternoon.
After the business of the meet
ing had been disposed of refresh
ments were served .to ..members
of the society and visiting guests.
L 8 LOCAL
JERRIE W. LEE
FOR COUNTY RECORDER
Mr. Robert Daggs returned
irom AlDuquerque, JN. M., on
Friday.
Mr. and Mrs. F. E. Wells and
two children and Mrs. Ohas. Swish
er motored out to the Coleman
Lake country Sunday morning and
spent the day in the mountains.
The stoik presented Mr. and
Mrs. Mark Smith with a baby
boy last Thursday,, October 19.
JERRIE W. LEE
FOR COUNTY RECORDER
Mr. and Mrs. Russel Stone and
Mr. and Mrs. Tidlam of Maine
were in Town yesterday.
Williams hunters all report ducks
quite numerous on the lakes. Some
are successful in .bagging a number
but most complain that they are
hard to get at.
For Sale- Vacant lots $35 up ; 5
acre tracts of land adjoing Williams;
Cottages $300 to $100; a bunglow
or two. C. P. Silvernail. office Cor
ner Grand Ave. and 5th St.
The women of St Margarets
Guild will have a food sale con
sisting of pies, plum-puddings
and meats the day before
Thanksgiving. Further notice
as to place will be given later.
Tuesday night Marshal Bobby
Burns arrested two Mexicans
who were creating a disturbance
on Railroad Ave., Block 2 and,
lodged them in jail. Judge Sine
fined thehi $5 apiece in the morn
ing on payment of which they
were allowed to depart with the
injunction not to come again. '
Public School Entertainment
The Williams Public School will
give'an entertainment to-night the
proceeds from which will be ueed
for the benefit of the boys and girls
basket ball teams. Admif-sion will
be 25 cents for adults and 15 cents
for children.
Democrats Will Dance
Not to be outdone by the Wil
liams Republican Club the Wood
row Wilson Club of Williams will
give a free dance after their
rally Saturday night, November
4. This meeting will be at the
Sultana and every, body is invited
to be present at both meeting
and dance and enjoy the speak
ing and the amusement to follow.
Roosevelt Passed Thru .
Theodore Roosevelt passed thru
Williams on No. 10 Sunday night.
Called out of his private coach at
Ash Fork, Mr. Roosevelt said a few
words to the crowd aembled at
the station. He said he liked Ari
zona men and women and especial
ly Arizona's pretty girls several of
whom were present.
Marshal Bobby Burns was on
No. 10 coming up from Phoenix
and at Ash Fork he wired constable
Scotty McDougal of Roosevelt's
coming and to get out a crowd to
meet him at Williams and extend
democratic courtesy to him. ' As a
result of this action a good sized
crowd was "at the Williams station
when Mr. Roosevelt arrived larger,
Marshal Burns sa ys, than met him
at Prescott.
No. 10 remained in Williams 10
minutes. In that time Mr. Roose
velt did a good deal of hand-shaking
and had time to urge the elec
tion of Mr.. Hughes necessary
for thej salvation of the country. ;
"Kids" Party
Miss Edna Buggeln entertained
with a "kids" dancing party
Friday evening at the Parish
House, it being tastefully dec
orated in autumn leaves and
Japanese lanterns. A very dainty
lunch was served.
The guests included:
Misses Lou Keating, Esther Carl
son, Julia Munson, Georgia Al
corn, Bertha Peet, Mary Watson,
Jean Clifford, Pearl McKelvy,
Bell Barbour, Bess Dye, Blanch
Spellmire, Alice Barclay, Mes-
dames E. A. Miller, E. J. Nor
dyke, C. Jeffries, Martin Bug
geln, L. DeBold, E. J. Johnson,
F. Ferguson, E. Kirwan, Mr.
Walter Carlson, Chester Munson,
Jim Yeary, Paul Alexander, . Al
Root, Harry Wilson, Horace
Salmon, Willis Day, Roy Watson,
George Kimball, L. Montgomery
Earl Melick. The out of town
guests were Misses Regina Meek,
Margaret Babbitt, William Sis-
son, Teddy babbitt of Flagstaff,
Mr. Kolb of Grand Canyon, Mr.
and Mrs. Goodrich of Phoenix
Dr. Sample of Fresno, Cali
fornia is the guest of the Dr.
Perrin family this week.
Mr. C. B. Wilson of Flagstaff
was a Williams visitor on Mon
day. "
iittle Louise Wolfe spent Sat
urday and Sunday at' Grand
Canyon. She was the guest of
the Havens family.
Mrs. Prince Yoder of Ash
Fork was a Williams, visitor
Monday.
Mrs. Bozena Allen and Mrs.
Kennedy of Flagstaff were the
gueSfci.at the home of A. K.
Montgomery Saturday and Sun
day.
The Misses Lulu and Irma
Mitchell, Mr." Robert Bell, Mr.
and Mrs. C. Cy Milliar motored
to the Cliffs on Sunday.
. - - -
Mrs Eliza Brown of Ash Fork
was visiting" in Williams last
Friday. -
Dress Making and all kinds of
sewing done at reasonable prices.
Mrs. E. L. Shaw. 11-9-tf.
Announcement of Engagement
Miss Irma Mitchell announced
the engagement of her sister
Miss Lulu to Robert E. Bell of
Montgomery, Louisiana, at a
small dinner party Thursday
evening October the Ninteenth
During the delicious three
course dinner tne guests were
requested by the hostess to each
pull a ribbon, which extended
from a huge bell, upon doing
which the engagement was made
known.
Very Interesting Program
The first program of the music
department of the Womans Club
proved interesting and instruc
tive to the few but appreciative
club members present. Plans
for an evening of pleasure which
will be given for the friends
of the club members during the
season.were discussed. Nothing
definite was decided on. Fol
owing is tne program given
Tuesday afternoon:
Fannie Bloomfield-Zeisler"
. ..- Mrs. Boone
"Life of Joseph Hoffman"
Mrs. " Wente
Gilbert' Spross" Mrs Fergusen
Selections from Spross music,
"Will-O-the-Wisp" Mrs. Wells
"Yesterday and Today" ) Mrs.
"Jean" Lee
!Ethelbert Nevin" Mrs. Wells
"The Rosary" ' Mrs. Wells
"The Narcissus" Mrs. Lee
"Love Song" - Mrs. Boone
"Good Night" Mrs. Boone
"Rosary" Duet, Miss Bigger and
.., . Mrs. Wells
HIGH SCHOOL NOTES
High school boys last week de
bated the question: Resolved
that Wilson is a better qualified
presidential candidate than
Hughes. Marshal Hughes, Levi
Montgomery and Fred Seger had
the affirmative and Herbert John
son, Walter Finney and Pete
Campbell had the negative. The
judges were Miss Alcorn Miss
Keating and a stranger from
Los Angeles. The decision was
given the affirmative.
Tuesday four republican cand
dates for state office visited the
school. They didnt speak.
This week we have been pretty
busy getting ready for the en
tertainment for Thursday night.
Not much doing besides that. '
. We have a good 5
Ford to trade for cattle,
passenger
Williams Realty Co,
Counting 54,000 Ties no Fun
Harry McDougal and Aubrey
Thompson went to Howard Lake
on No. 12 Sunday morning to hunt
ducks and rabbits. The boyB in
tended to come back on No. 15.
They hunted all day and at train
time stationed themselves at the
track to . flag the train. In this
they were . unsuccessful for the
train did not stop and the boys had
to count ties into Williams arriv
ing some time Monday morning,
sore in spirit and bdy. There are
about 54,000 ties between Williams
and Howard Lake. Do you check,
boys?
Messrs McDougal and Thompson
will make no re certain- arrange
ments for their return" when 'next
they go to Howard Lake to hunt.
Counting 18 miles of ties is no fun.
Got a Whaling Big Buck
A' party of deer hunters consist
ing of Mr. Jake Wyatt and Dr.
Sample of Fresno, Cal., Mr. Loinez
of .Oatman, and Mr. Brophy of
Los Angeles, and Messrs W. M.
Hughes, Erie and Clyde Poison
and Lilo Perrin of Williams went
out. to Howard Mesa Sunday on a
deer hunt and returned Wednes
day, with three bucks. Success in
bringing down a buck was with Dr.
Sample, Mr. Brophy and Mr.
Loinez, , each getting one. The
buck shot by Dr. Sample was very
Iar,ge the largest old deer hunters
say that was ever killed in this
part of Arizona.
. Dr. Sample shot his buck with
an improved large bore mauser
rifle manufactured by the Krupps,
Germany, ine duck waa running
rapidly and was about 700 yards
distant when shot.
Dr. Sample and Messrs Wyatt
Loinez and -Brophy are guests of
the Perrins and the whole party
were guests of Lilo Perrin on this
hunt.
A practically new $1,600 ..Kissel
Kar for sale at a big discount.
Williams Realty Co.
A New Bakery In Williams '
Mr. Karl Peter from Los An
geles and Mr. Alvin Brandt from
San Francisco are preparing to
open a bakery in Williams. They
will occupy the stone building
on Bill Williams Ave. just east of
Abe Steinberg's store. ::t'
Messrs i'eter ana Brandt are
experienced bakers and should
do a good business in Williams.
They will be ready for customers
as soon as their machinery is in
stalled which will probably be
the last of this week.
Found A bunch of keys which
the owner may have at the News
office by paying for this notice.
ENVIABLE RECORD
IN SUPTS: OFFICE
Miss Lenore Francis, Superin-,
tendent of the schools of Coconi-.
no county and candidate for re
election, is completing her first
term of office. The record she
has made in so short a time is
enviable, indeed, and bespeaks a
high degree of efficiencv
in
school work. Among the.
,ac-
complishments of the first term
of Miss Francis' incumbency of :
the superintendents office are:
The organization of three new.
school districts, making a total
of fifteen districts for the county.
Ihe erection of three: new
school buildings and another in
course of construction. ' -. The '
plans and specifications . for the
buildings were submitted to
State Superintendent C. 0. Case,
and they met his entire approval
because light, ventilation and
sanitation were so well provided
for. .'
Supplying eight of the fifteen .:
school districts with a reference '
library. - -
Increasing the average daily .
attendance so that schools in
Coconino county are in a more
flourishing condition than at any
other time in the history of the .
county.
Providing for , four year's
high school course in Williams. .
Text book records which the
Deputy State Examiner says are
the most complete of any in the
state.
Miss Francis -ia a woman with ;
progressive, endericien - and a t
strong personality and the school
work which she has jn . hand v
would be advanced by her in the 4
next two years as no other could .,;
advance.it. The best interests :;
of the schools of Coconino Coiin- ...
ty demand that Miss Francis be
retained in office. r "
Plenry of Track But no Deer
F. M. Gold took a party consist
ing ol Mrs. uoid and daughter
Myra, Mrs: Thompson and son
Billy, Miss Spyker and M. J, Wells
out into the Sitgreaves country
Sunday. Dinner was prepared
and eaten in a small canyon -west
of the mountains and then the
party motored to a small timbered
mountain north-west of the Sit
greaves which the men "hun ted
over for deer. Many tracks were
seen but the deer, evidently,' had
been driven away. j
Williams is on the map to stay;
you are in Williams to stay; Why
not buy a home and stay right.
Williams Realty Co.
JERRIE W. LEE -
FOR COUNTY RECORDER
We will show a prospective . buy-
er any of the properties we have
to sell. , , . .
The Williams Realty. Co. ;
For Sale'
Ford Touring Car, good condi-;
tion, demountable rims, large
Prest-o-lile tank, shock absorber
and master vibrator. " All n-w tires
All for $275. Cash only." Inquire--
of Babbitt Poison Co., Ash; Fork. :tf. , ,
F. P. Savage here on Vacation' w
Mr. and MrsF. P." Savage of .
Winslow are in Williams for a
two weeks visit. They are occu- . r
pying their own house on east
Sheridan street. When the time
came for Mr. Savage to be grant-
ed a two weeks vacation by the
Santa Fe he decided that his .
old home in Williams was a good -
enough place to spend it. .?--.
