.FINANCIAL LDlTiON
11
NIGHT
EXTRA
TOli. HI. NO. 37
IE
irnntu)
JSTR4
&
j
linger
NIGHT
EXTRA
rmiiADELPniA, tjiuhsday, October so, 1010
Cortiiaiii. 101(1, t tns Pcntio Ltxnti Courtitt
FALKENHAYN'S
IROOPSHURLED
ACROSS BORDER
e Germans Beaten Back
"Everywhere" Over Tran
sylvania Frontier,
Bucharest Says
CERNAVODA SPAN WRECK
i i
Mackenscn's Attacks Grow Less
Violent, Petrograd Report
Asserts
tONDON, Oct. 26 The Germans
heavily shelled British trenches north
of the Somme Inst night between Eau
court l'Abbayc and lea Boucfs and also
bi the neighborhood of Stuff and
Hoheniollcrn redoubts, General Halg
reported this afternoon.
British detachments successfully
raided enemy trenches near Monchy
and also northeast of Arras, doing con
siderable damage and taking some
prisoners.
nuciiAnEST, Oct. a.
Making a stand against the Invading Teu
tonlo forces, the numanlan troops have
driven the foe back across the Transyl
vania border everywhere, the War Onice of
ficially announced today.
There Is nothing to report In the Dob
rudja sector, the report added.
petroorad, Oct. 2.
The attacks of von Mackensen's army In
Dobrudja are becoming- less violent, the
War Office reported today.
On the Transylvanlan front the Russo
numanlan forces have checked the advance
of von Falkenhayn.
dn tile eastern front the Germans have
continued their attacks north of Mount
Caput In the Carpathians, but have been
unable to break through, the report says.
CHICAGO. Oct. 28.
The Chicago Dally News today prints the
following:
"In spite of the rigid censorship In
Europe, exclusive cabled Information from
a trustworthy source reaches the Dally
News tpday which tends to confirm the
statement published. In. .yesterday's; late .edi
tions mai ma King ana Movernmeni or. u
mania have fled lo Odessa to escape the
advancing armies of the Central Towers.
RUMANIANS WRECK BRIDGE .
AT CERNAVODA; GERMAN
AIRMEN SHELL FATKSIIT.
RERUN, Oct. 26.
The great twehe-mlle bridge, spanning
the Danube at Cernavoda, has been blown
up ty the Rumanians, the lvGerman War
Office announced today.
The destruction of the bridge followed
the retreat of the Russo-Rumanlan forces
from Cernavoda.
German aviators hae bombarded Fateshtl
at the western end of the bridge.
Advices had been received here several
hours before the War Ofllce report was
given out to the effect that the Rumanians
had made an attempt lo wreck the bridge,
but the citent of the damage done to the
mighty structure was not stated.
Russian attacks In Volhynla, Gallcla and
In the wooded Carpathians broke down
Under the German curtain of fire, the War
Office stated.
FRENCH AND SERBS MAKE
IMPORTANT ADVANCES ON
THE MACEDONIAN FRONT
PARIS, Oct. 2,
A new Important advance by the Ser
bians and French In Macedonia wQ an
nounced by the War omce today. Driving
the Bulgarians before them, the Serbians
'captured the fortified height of Statorhoof.
hlle French cavalry pccupled Oolobordab
nd Larlska.
The text of the statement follows!
' ..iNorth of slrkow and Grob moun.
tains the Serbian troops dnne back
rthe Germans and Bulgarians and cap
tured a fortified height at the conflu
ence of the. Oerna and Strosnlka rivers,
taking eighty prisoners.
Soilthtv, .f .....- T -1.-
. ...-.-.. w iv imkb our cav
alry, assisted by Infantry detachments,
occupied on the evening of October 24
the bridge at Zvosda. as well as the
villages of Colobordab and Larlska.
On the rest of the front fog hindered
toe operations.
LONDON, Oct. 2,
Serbian Danuha anil nrtn im.ifnn.
I, Tuesday took several heights on the left
or me Hiver Cerna, taking 450 prls.
eaers and a machine gun, 1t" was offlclally
announced today
l British naval nlanM Hfnnrlav A rr...M-
, y attacked the town of Buk, or( the Con-
f staauBopte-galenloa Railway, ddlng con-
CeeWimed on l'm four. Column Two
THE WEATHER -
,.
V PAiWWpWa. and vMnUyFaiA
M antt kmtoy; somewhat oeldw
lahl. J .. i...,, .
ntf mvttvrnte Wfflfrw WIIWW,
I.lfta'ATIf Ilk- 11AV
hlK &' !3H 111 rw. , S.ISa.m.
NCLAWARM tUVNtf ItllHt f'KAMMtK
L ir., ii,a.lj vrur iii.ie.
TKMrKft.tTUJIlt AT KW'H HV
HI 4 I'm i hi lii ii . t ' a i k
i ui JLi I ttl Ml IJll Ml! I
PfllOE ONJBC OJCJTT
MAYOR CALLS CITY TO AID HUGHES
air UVUUST1UES MAY BE GUARDED
P!1BIJh,A?EI:P1JuA.N? shouUl uPPo-t Mr. Hughes for rrrstdent for tho
HrnnT J? n thtVth entire country should support him. He is a Kepub
a p?k "Presents tho principles of that pnrty-principlcs rcsponsiblo for
?TOk-v "nPrcccdent in the history of any other nation. He is a protection
ist, which means that ho will, when elected, advocate and enforce laws
necessary for the preservation of
our industries. His fitness for the
highest office in the gift of the peo
ple is testified by his record an Gov
ernor of the great Slate of New
York, tho fearless way in which ho
handled big problems, the courage
with which ho faced opposition in
defense of what ho believed Amer
ican principles nnd American rights.
His record as n member of the Su
preme Court, the most powerful
body to be found in any Government
in the world, exhibited even higher
qualities of statesmanship, greater
strength of character than was
shown in his important work as
Governor of n great State. Indeed,
his whole public career justifies the
confidence felt by his supporters
that he represents an ideal man for
tho highest public office within the
gift of the Amcricnn electorate. His
strong personality, sterling charac
ter, judicial temperament nnd wide
experience in the public service com
bine to justify a feeling of nbsolutc
security in the man. He was un
doubtedly tho unbossed selection of
a great majority of tho delegates
chosen by the people to the party con
vention in Chicago, nnd is, therefore,
in every sense of the words, the
choice or the party,
jtf Kav-eBBBBBBBSSSSSJ
'JflBsaaaaaaaaam BH
BBBBBBfltL sH
bbbbMlk.' w
bbbbBS ' W" S
SllllB&ESHK ' L Wl
bbb&smBR ' Wm
a sKiPiLi
MAYQR THOMAS B. SMITH
Philadelphia depends for her prcscnt-trny prosperity nnd future de
velopment upon her great manufacturing interests: these interests, in turn,
depend for their life upon a protective tariff, and that tariff can only bo
hoped for from a Republican party in full control of tho executive nnd legis
lative branches of government.
Mr. Hughes is the standard bearer of that party which holds the life
of Philadelphia in its hands and every loyal Philadclphian should support him
with all tho energy and all the ability ho possesses or can command.
(Signed.)
cZZvfatoM sApuJk.
Mayor.
BRITISH LURES
FAIL TO STIFLE
NEW SHIP LINE
Many Firms Promise to
Stand by South Amer
ican Trade
BIG CONTRACTS READY
ConcretS illustrations of rate-cuTtWtac-tlcs
resorted to In an effort to throttle trade
between this port and South America and
to crush out of existence the new steam
ship1 line direct from Philadelphia to South
American trade centers, are reported by tho
Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce. Not
withstanding these endeavors to Btlfle the
new line and to dlert trade from this port
Philadelphia businessmen will stand by the
new 'enterprise, regardless of the methods
and underbidding.
Cement manufacturers from the Uclnlty
of Allentown promised that they would
average 2000 tons for shipment every
month to Buenos Aires. Now that the serv
ice is In effect, they stipulate that shipment
will be made through British lines whoso
terminals are In New York unless a rate
of $16 a ton is granted. This rate, officials
of the new line say. Is S3 a ton under what
It costs to charter the steamship.
COST OK CARRYING OOODS
For carrying knit goods from, Philadelphia
to Buenos Aires a price of 65 cents n cublo
foot was fixed, as against 67 '.4 cents
charged at New York In the regular talffs
'of the established British lines. It has not
been possible to obtain the thousands of tons
of business which Is the usual mouthy
aerage shipped from Philadelphia.
One of the shippers questioned regarding
this, said; "I am now offered such terms by
the old lines as to make It poor business to
ship through Philadelphia, If you will make
a fiat rate of fifty-five cents a cublo foot
from Philadelphia, I will immediately sign
a contract for seventyfhe tons of knit
goods for your next sjeamer."
Hfforts by the Chamber of Commerce to
ascertain why such an attitude prevails
hae'teen unavailing, Tho only reason ap
parent to them Is cut rates.
Many of the shippers of this city, who
Continued on rase Two, Column Four
WKTliTONSTORM
BREWING, IS FEAR
Weather Reports From South In
dicate Hurricane Over Gulf
Region
WASHINGTON, Oct. 26, That a new
Wot Indian hurricane, may be brewing
was Indicated In reports received by theJ
Weather Bureau today, showing the prea
lence of unusually high winds and abnor
mally low pressure over the Caribbean Uea
and the West Indies, extending far Into the
southeastern Gulf oX Mexico.
Definite evidence of an Independent dis
turbance off the southeastern 'coast of Flor
ida, also wasfrecajved.
Weather forecasters ordered thC display
of advisory warnings along the middle At
Untie and Gulf coasts until the extent of the
dtaturbanees la more definitely determined.
Lad Hit by Auto" 2 Weeks Age IMw
jr Deaaterdo, seventeen years eU, of
1IX POt JeaMtp street, dlj in the Unl
vereity MoapiUl today from Injur ls re
ceived la an automobile .accident about V
weeks M- After UU aooWt DaUro
wtl Uken to. Mm tfowart HobbIUI. k( .
removed to t UulveUy HsattA tm M
opeiwUu.)
SUFFRAGE WINS .
INDORSEMENT OF
WOMEN'S CLUBS
Temperance, Americanism
and Military Training in
Schools Backed
20 SPEECHES AT SESSION
woman suffrage, military training In the
public schools, temperance arid American
ism were Indorsed by the State Federation
of Pennsylvania women at Its session this
morning In the Bellvue-Stratford. Suffrage,
both as an Issue to be fought for and a
subject for discussions In the annual con
cntlons, was unamlmously Indorsed.
Military training In the public schools
was offered for Indorsement early In tho
session. It was defeated by a vote of it to
48, but when brought up for reconsideration,
after other delegates had arrived, It was
carried by a tote of 106 to 95.
I,IVi:i,Y DKDATKS
More than twenty speeches were made
for and against the resolution presented by
the resolutions committee. Mrs. v.Samuel
Semple, of TltusUUe, former president of
the federation, was the peace advocate who
opposed the Indorsement of the militant
stand, Mrs. George P. Itose, of Sewtckley,
led the debates In favor of preparing the
country by training the youth In the schools
In military tactics.
There was no mention of local option In
the resolution Indorsing temperance. The
resolution placed the organisation In the
ranks of the "drys," with only three women
voting Bgalnut It.
The segregation of the feeble-minded was
also among the many resolutions placing
the federation In various channels of policy.
One resolution called upon Governor
Brumbaugh to appoint two women as trus
tees of i tho State College; another Indorsed
the appointment of a committee on "Amer
icanism"; another Indorsed the appointment
of a standing committee to help rural
women.
FIOIIT FAII.3 TO DEVKLOP
The expected fight against woman suf
frage did not materialise, Mrs. Horace
Brock, however, recorded an objection to
what she termed "the Illegality of changing
the clause In the constitution."
The clause which the votes on the resolu
tion Inserted In the constitution In place
of the clause which prohibited such ques
tions as woman suffrage to be discussed,
defines the object of the federation to be
that of ''uniting the Influence and enter
prise of Pennsylvania women In promoting
measures which all can Indorse, whether
these be legislative, clvlo, educational,
moral or social, and to compare methods
qt study and of work,"
In explaining the position she took yes
terday against changing the clause of the
constitution, Mrs. Brock said; .
'I neer objected to the discussion of
women sufTrago Jn this federation. You
UnoY that perfectly well. I only objected
to the Indorsement of the change In the
constitution as a matter of principle,
"It Is unwise to Indorse all these mooted
questions. If we should Indorse birth con
trol we never would hear the end of It
All these things ought to be stopped,"
, -! ,
Madera's Sister Weds In United State
BAN ANTONIO, Te., Oct. a.-,MI
Angela Usdere, sister of former President
Francisco I, Madero. of Uexleo, and Joee
Trevlno Oarqla, of Monterey, were married
here. The cerenteny was attended by Mrs,
FrancUeo U4Vp, who Is makfetg her heme
In, this ety, aal s4fer relatives. Miss Ma.
Aero eme Into MoaiaM at the Uwe tf
President M4Ws tUaiii in Mestaa pay,
when je denowsnsri asrf eMM Viator!
tuarta. !
FACTIONS SPLIT
ON CITY PAYROLL
ANDMW"JOBS"
Seger's Demand in Behalf of
"Little Fellows" Startles
Financiers
ADMINISTRATION VEXED
Finance Committee Divided on
Salary Roosts and New Jobs
SEGER, of rcnrose-McNichol fac
tion, demnnds consideration for
the "little fellow."
Vnre department hends make
plnccs for political workers nnd
would boost police nnd tire employes.
Ynrc demands would ndd $8,
000,000 to nnnunl cost of govern
ment. Scjjor demands would ndd hun
dreds of thousands to this high
fijrure.
To cjrnnt both would send tax
rate soaring or force Councils to
borrow money to pay salary rolls.
Administration embarrassed and
looking for grounds for agreement.
Fearing an open break In Councils' Fi
nance Committee between Tenrosc-McNichol
members nnd representathes of the Vnres
over the question of salary Increase nnd new
positions, efforts jire being made today by
factional leaders to find a common ground
on which to stand In pasMng on Increases.
Select Councilman Charles Seger, by de
manding better pay for low-salaried men
whom the administration had no desire nor
Intention of boosting, has placed the Vare
departmental heads In the position of halng
to faor nil Increases or of turning against
the ordinary worker.
Seger's suggestion, that had much the
effect of n bursting bomb, when made to the
councllmanlc financiers, would. If adopted,
result In a complete revision of the munici
pal payroll, with the consequent addition
of many hundreds of thousands of dollars
annually to the cost of government. The
feature of the plan feared most by the
Vares and the Administration Is the added
burden It would throw upon the tnx rate.
Especially Is this the case since so many
business associations hae gone on record
as opposing any Increase In realty taxes
at this time.
All of the Increases and new places that
the Vares are Interested In have long since
been Included In the budgets nnd most of
them were to have been forced through In
the next few weeks, They add a total of
about 13,000,000 to the dbst'nf operating the
,cjty.,goveronf nl, a3i lncludersttehlpepular,'
salary .raises as those' demanded uy the
thousands of employes of the Police and
Klre Bureaus.
SEGEIfS STnATEOlC COUP
On top of these unusually heavy demands
now comes the demand of Seger on ehalt
of the "little fellow." Asji piece of political
strategy the move Is unparalleled In the
history of the factional warfare between
the Penrose-McNIchot Councllmen and the
Vare forces, as It lines up the former fac
tion as the champion of the worker and
voter as opposed to salary Increase In high
salaried positions held by Vare appointees.
That the pcsltlon taken by Councilman
Seger la unavailable, In the open, has
been clearly shown by the fact that many
of the Vare leaders. Including Chairman
Gaffney, of Councils' Finance Committee,
hae endorsed the moe and declared that
the low salaries paid should be Increased.
Quietly, howover, with a full realization
of the fact that eery one cannot share In
salary boosts Unless Councllx should throw
all caution to the wind and authorize an
excessive Increase In the tax rato on realty
or borrow money lo meet ss'arles, the lead
ers today are making desperate efforts to
"get together." The time for reaching an
agreement Is short and the advantage ad
mittedly lies with the PenroBe-Mc.Mchol
faction in that their more Is a popular
one and one designated to embarrass. If
not prevent entirely, the carrying out of
the program mapped out with a view to
boosting faithful Vare henchmen In the
city service.
INCREASES TO BE HELD UP
On Monday the Finance Committee -will
meet to take up the 110,000,000 demand of
Director Wilson, of the Department of
Public Safety. At this session all Increases
will be made up and Mr. Seger will make
more emphatic) his stand In faor of raising
the pay of the "tittle fellow," A few days
later the demands of the Department of
Public Works will be taken up, but they,
like' all that have gone befere, will not be
finally passed upon, as all must stand the
final test of revision from the different
standpoints of the two political factions.
Organization leaders today deprecated the
appearance of friction In the Finance Com
mittee and agreed that the eve of a national
and State election was a poor time to start
Internal trouble, The Question of time ap
parently works both ways, as the Penrose
MoNtchot leaders are even more anxious to
make a good showing for Presidential Can
didate Hughes than are the Vare leaders.
Political observers around City Hall declare
that local troubles can In no way affect the
national situation and that It will be fought
out. regardless of the cming election.
HUSBAND SLAVER TESTIFIES
i
Mrs, Dentinger Tells of Abuse That
Ended In Tragedy
NEWARK, K, J., Oct. 2?TJe trial of
Mrs. Margaret 0. Bentlnger for the .murder
of, her husband when he threatened lo
strangle her after forcing his way Into her
bedroom was resumed today.
Mrs. Bentlnger, the mother of "he chil
dren, tetl4 that her, husband had been
generally abusive and cruel. gh told the
ytry o an uhw life from hi time site
Mt W tMHM m the Island f JanuOea,
to mrtr itaeUiwer. wtnVwa the .
)AHmmMtrajik l -Wa Uesswi-
QUICK NEWS
BETHLEHEM STEEL SELTS AT $642
NEW YORK, Oct. 20. Bethlehem Steel In the late nltcrnocii
trndlng broke nirptcvlous. records when 100 Blmrcs sold at" $042.
Tho previous high jnnrk was $080.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
rirst Laurel race, 2-year-olds, solHnjr, 0 furloags Qreetrcc, 113,
Roblusou, $3.50, S2.70, $2.30, won; Battle Abbey, 103, Sehuttlnger,
$3.40, 82.80, second; Kilts, 107, Parrlugton, $3.40, third. Time,
1.14 1-5.
Seoond Lauicl race, 2-ycar-olds, tselllnr;, 0 furlongs Unnobaln,.
100, Ball, $8.70, $1.80, $3.80, won; Lord Byrou, 107, Kelsey, $8.20,
$5.50, second; Great Dolly, 101, Disunion, $5.10, third. Time, 1.14 3-5.
U-BOATS SANK 180 SHIPS IN SEPTEMBER
HBRMX, Oct. 16. Ono hundred nntl forty-ono hostile trading ships, totaling
182,000 tonnage, were sunk or captured by German submurlnen or lost by mines
during September, tho Admiralty announced today, Thlity-nlno neutral trading
shlpt, totullng 71.600 tonnage, wcro also sunk for carrying contraband. Thirteen
captains of hostile ships wcro niado prisoners nnd thrco cannon of nrmed steam
ships captured.
LEGISLATURE CAN GRANT STREET RAIL RIGHTS
CHICAGO. Oct. 26. Agreeing with tho contention of both the city of Chicago
nnd tho Chicago surface lines, tho Illinois Supremo Court has upheld tho constl
tutlonallly of tho Illinois public utilities law by deciding that tho Legislature may
grant rights of construction niul operation of street railways In municipalities with
out consent of local authorities having control of strcctx.
CARS LADEN WITH POLICE IN YONKERS STRIKE
YONICUItS, N. V., Oct. 26. Three cars can lng four policemen each nnd
guarded by patrolmen on motorcycles and In automobiles were run by tho 'Yonkera
Kallrund Company today In an attempt to testoro setvtco before Muyor Lennon
ends tho ntrlke situation by having a lecclvcr aprolntcd for tho company.
WRECKAGE OF GERMAN WARSHIP FOUND
COPENHAGEN, Oct. 26. Largo quantities of wreckage were washed up on
Kcvshalo Island, near Copenhagen, Wednesday. According to the Ultstrnblad, an
Investigation showed that the wreckage was from a German warship. It Included
large sections of tho afterpart of tho ship.
PORTION OF BRAIN
CUT IN EPILEPTIC
TESTS FOR CLINIC
Dr. H. L. Northrup, Phila
delphian, Startles Con
gress by Operation
CHICAGOAN PRAISES CITY
GAS BOMBS DROPPED ON METZ, SAYS BERLIN
nurtLIN, Oct. 20. Referring to nn announcement thnt aeroplanes, which
attacked Metz, dropped bombs which emitted polsonoui gases, the Tngeblatt bj
the poison In the bombs causes Intcnso HUffcring und death In a few dajs, Tho
newspaper says General Joffro could not hnve sanctioned tho usb'xuiinatlon of five
nonbelligerent and expresses the hope that the French Government will apologize
and punish the nvlator.
HUGHES AGAIN FAVORITE IN NEW YORK BETTING
NUW YORK, Oct. 26, Retting commissioners, checking up todny, found $100,000
'haaireeTl wagered ycsterday.-fBrcIng the odds from even bacli" tKlOtrflPori Hoglios;
Tox Rlckard did a flourishing business op Ohio bets. He was the go-between In Mev-
ornl bcttl that Ohio would go Democratic. One was $10,000 ugulnst $7000; another
135,714 28 ngnlnst I2S.O00.
ARGENTINE PRESIDENT TO FEED POOR
I1UENUS AIRES, Oct. 26. Ilecaubo of hai 1 limes, Dr. lrlBoyen', now radical
President of Argentine, Is nrianglng to nhulter the deutituto of lliienos Aires In pub
lic buildings. He will pay for their food himself. This step taken by the riew Presi
dent, one of the first Important decrees he has issued sinco his Inauguration two
weeks ago, gave Argentina Its first Insight Into tho character of Its new Executive.
He will turn his salary of nearly $100,000 back Into the national Treasury,
$10,000,000 MORE GOLD RECEIVED AT MINT
Recoipt of gold from Canada, amounting to $10,000,000 nt the Philadelphia Mint
for tho nccount of J. P. Morgan &. Co., In addition to a similar amount which nrrhcd
last week, increases tho total Importation of gold Into this country from nil sources
Bince January 1 to $433,000,000,
FALL. RIVER COTTON MILL VOTES 71 DIVIDEND
FALL RIVER, Mass., Oct, 26. A stock dividend of seventy-one per cent was
yoted at tho annual meeting of the Htevens Manufacturing Company, Htockholders
authorizing directors to Increase capital stock from $700,000 to $1,200,000. This Is
said to bo the largest stock dividend over declared by a cotton mill here. Tho earn
ings during the car amounted t,o twenty-six per cent on tho cipltnl.
FLOUR PRICES ADVANCE TO CIVIL WAR MARK
WASHINGTON, Oct. 20. Throughout the country flour Is selling ut tho high
est prices since Civil War days. Tho bullish condition of tho wheat market has
boosted the price as high as $11 a barrel In some sections, and even higher quota
tions aro expected If the price of December wheat continues to rise. Charleston,
W. Va., reports an advance of fifty cents a bnnel, biinglng thuatop price to $11,
COMPANY B, ENGINEERS, STARTS FOR HOME SATURDAY
Company R, Engineers, of Philadelphia, with Company A, of Scranton, will
entrain at El Iaso for home Saturday, according, to orders received by tho battalion.
The Philadelphia company has been stationed at Nogales, Ariz., the greater part of
Its stay on the border. Flvo oftlcers of tho Second Pennsylvania Artillery, of Phila
delphia, formerly nn Infantry regiment, hnve been mustered out because) of the
reduced number of officers In an artillery unit and will leavo for home. They are
Captain It. F. Gordon, First Lieutenants N. H. Smith and T. S. Samworth and
Second Lieutenants F. J. Holzbaur and C. A. Martin,
I
CHILD AT PLAY KINDLES FIRE; MAY DIE OF BURNS
Five-year-old Catherine Ryan It In n critical condition today at the Presby
terian Hospital, with slender chances of recovery, from tho burns that will dis
figure her for life If she does survive them, She was burned on the head, arms
nnd body yesterday, when she and a playmate kindled a fire In front of Iter home,
951 North Forty-fifth street Her mother ran with her to the olllce of Dr. William
II. Wilcox, 914 North Forty-fourth street, who took her to the hospital.
DIES OF LOCKJAW CAUSED BY RUSTY NAfL
Thomas Farquhar, of Smlthvllle, N. J., died In the Copper Hospital, Camden,
early today from te'tanus. Two weeks ago the lad stepped on a rusty nail, which
pierced his foot. Ho was removed to tho hospital Tuesday, when his condition
became grave.
COUNTRY CLUB WANTS PATROL TO GUARD GROUNDS
Officials of the Huntingdon Valley Country Club, at Noble. huo requested
Superintendent of Police Robinson to select six men to serve as a mounted -patrol
on the cl,ub grounds. Hunters have caused much .damage to tho greens. . Ab effort
will be made to get former cavalrymen. The salaries will be paid by the cb;
"' " " " " ! " 11 Mil (l
METHODISTS SEEK $200,000 FOR INDIGENT MINISTERS
The Methodist Episcopal Church Hoard of Conference Claimants will endeayor
to raise $200,000 In Philadelphia in the next three days to complete its allotment
In the flvo weeks' campaign being made throughout the country for indjent und
superannuated ministers. The headquarters Is In the Wesley IhOkMaa-, 8evH
teenth and Arch streets.
,
COMMANDER BOOTH'S ILLNESS EpSTPONBg C0NGR1SS
Th Mggeet congress the kjklvaitoR Army tM.sjenwis in this etMttiy, to be
IteU November 17 to It, has bn oanceM bsqBlM u th danrq. IHrmr of
Cmw-WT Kva Booth ks kr been at While rtaJiM. N. Y, Hit was to hove been
bm oslnU ( at Use jmrs . , teJrMtM Amjr oMears bv t tvTiTrrl-"w
i 'W
"A Show-Me" Mcetins: and Book
to Surgery, He f
Says
A portion of a human brain was remove
today by Dr. H. L. Northrup, the "brain
wizard," In an effort to cure a bpy of ohronle
epilepsy, at one of the score of cllntes that
marked today's sessions of the Clinical
Congress of Surgeons.
The demonstration was witnessed at the
Hahnelndnn Honpltal by many of the visit
ing surgeons, who were amazed at; the
skill and daring of tho operation. After the
subject had teen etherized. Doctor North
rup removed a section of the skull bone,
exposing the base of the brain. With a
few quick strokes of the knife he removed
the portion qf the brain which ha ald waa
responsible for the recurrence of the epi
leptic fits. Then the skull rectlon was re
placed Doctor Northrup told the surgeons that
the boy probably would be paralyzed .for a
period nfter the operation. '
PRKDICTS RKCOVERY
"llut," he said, "the other portions of
the brain soon will take up the function
and work of the part removed. I expect
that the boy will get well and that the fits
will disappear."
Doctor Northrup also removed a tumor
from the brain of a man. He satd, that
brain jmrgery was today where abdominal
surgery was ten years ago.
"Then surgeon; feared to go Into the .
abdominal cavity," he said, "Today ab
dominal operations nre common, and we are
beginning to find out that the brain ns
longer Is a forbidden field,"
Doctor Northrup, n Phllndelphlan, Is
noted ns one of tho world's foremost daring
hroln operators. He has cured thieves and
delinquent children by removing bone
pressure on the brain and by other opera
tions In the brain cavity.
Substitution of a skein ot silk for a. dis
eased ligament In the left leg ot nn eight-year-old
girl victim of Infantile, paralysis
was the feature of n. remarkable operation
performed today by Dr. J. R. Young at the
Polyclinic Hospltar. - - :'-
DELICATE OPERATION
Doctor Young removed a portion of
healthy muscle of the Infected leg above
the knee. He placed this mupcla with the
paratyzed muscle below the, knee. Then
he removed the d cas4d ligament and sub
stituted one of silk coated with paraffin.
Doctor Young told tho surgeons that In a
shprt time healthy tissues would form
around the silken ligament and make It
nearly as good ns a normal one.
The child would be enabled to abandon
her brace, nnd use the leg almost as freely
as before, he predicted
Doctor Young also performed an oper
ation for clubfoot on a ten-year-old boy.
He removed a bone from the foot, and said
that In a few weeks the boy would be able
to walk without a brace,
A rare operation of skin-grafting was per
formed on a seven-year-old girl by Dr. J.
P Mann at the Medlco-Chlrurglcal Hospi
tal, The girl was born with ft contracted
hand, the fingers being deformed. The con
traction was cut away and a flap of skin
was raised on the child's back. The hand
then was drawn around and fastened to the
flap. The surgeon said the hand wquld be
kept In this position fully a Week, so lea
to gle the new skin on the back an op
portunlty to grow to the hand. This op
eration, he said, would glte the chlld's.haiva
normal skin Instead of scarred tlssdjThe V
operation would restore the use Up the
hand, he ndded.
DEFORMITY TREATED
Doctor Mann nlso operated on a four-year-old
girl with a deformed right arm.
The tendons and muscles were elongated
or stretched to restore use ot the arm aiwf
fingers. Another remarkable cjperatlen pet
formid by Doctor Mann was one for the
straightening of a curved spine of a thirteen-year-old
girl. This method was In
vented by Dr. F J. Abbott, of Portland. Me.,
who was present at the clinic The chtyd
was placed in a large machine, a4 by a
system ot pulleys and levers the HtM wm
forced Into a straight position. Then the
subject was put into a plaster cast, where
she will remain for two weeks. Bhe was
not given nn anesthetic, and from Umii to
time she notified the operators when tae
pressure on the spine was too grt. The
operation covered forty-five ml4st
Dr. Truman Brophy, noted Uiirgea C
Chicago, said today, that the ooncreee)
would result In a not a We advaaee la , ait
luies uf surgery alt over U-UuUd , ,
The vlettiur surgeons." he saM. "ata
learning somer wonderful tblnaa'ia HMypf
delpma, ie w me vwm greatest
eertera. 'Yew' waaoerful wMiest
pliyatjtaRN here are Uaiing the way t.
SUrgHWI WWillln VIH4WI W HUM
ta be, humanity by reatMe
members t soslety to usefulness.
( fjlOW-MH CONaKSM"
"This as beta a how m' eougreas aft
the way through. PhlMajfrals surgeoM
have esalblted 'their ADf with the kaifa
awl waea Uw vteitla minr.m go te tDtto
homes ttMT a-4 to carry Witt
Use great stoseni, they nave tearaaa
Whs' tt hMory of thl woaretNi Is Wftsa,
tea it W ( to eland oui as u greaieat
of avMtlasji v U t'Unicai runres
sjurasaaa l tola that r pan
realise wendarful awgtaeus ae
hail MWg-anni who w mtaaiaaa tat
- - i u -. jssMm. .:'"
Wr W T
.,F
v
