Thirty years ago Princeton and
southern Mille Lacs county were desti
tute of railroad facilities. Business
was stagnant. Wild land within four
miles of Princeton could be purchased
for a song, and from $10 to $20 per
acre was the maximum price for the
best improved farms, and there was
no demand at those figures.
Early in 1886 rumors were circu-
to Mille Lacs county than $250,900
NO INCREASE O TAXES NECESSARY
Mille Lacs County's Golden Opportunity to Se
cure a Splendid System of Hard
Surfaced Highways.
Thinking, Intelligent Voters Will Express Their
Approval at the Polls on the
7th of November.
lation to the effect that the Great IN THE TAX RATE. "Preposterous!" way from the Twin Cities to the in-
Northern contemplated building from exclaim the doubting Thomases. Let! ternational boundary. The reader
the south to connect with the St. Cloud us see. should also bear in mind, too, that the
ana Hinckley branch and have a direct If the bonds are voted and a loan is act of congress granting Federal aid
route of its own from the Twin Cities obtained from the state the rate of for the permanent improvement of
to Duluth A delegation of our citi- interest would be four per cent. Four
zens waited upon the late James J. Hill per cent on $75,000 would amount to
and urged him to build via Princeton.' $3,000 annually. If the bonds are sold
There were three surveys being made' to private parties the rate of interest
northward from the line of the Great I would probably be 41/2
Northern between the northern limits ready a broker has offered to purchase sibly meet the $50,000 of Federal aid
of Minneapolis and Elk River at that them at 4% At AV2 percent the an-' is by a bond issue,
time. After several conferences with nual interest would amount to $3,325. I Is it not a good proposition Is it
Mr. Hill he finally agreed to build For several years past the county [not a generous proposition? Can we
from Elk River to Milaca, via Prince- commissioners have levied annually afford to reject it If so when will
ton, providing Mille Lacs county would I the maximum county road and bridge a like opportunity offer 1
vote aid to the extent of fhe percent taxthree mills. Now order to Let no one imagine that this promise
of the assessed real estate valuation (meet
the aid asked for amounted in round will take the higher rate, under the' effort. Had it not been for the hearty
numbers to about $50,000. The prop- present valuation it would require a co-operation of influential friends
3-4 mill taxfor convenience sake we along the north end of the proposed
deal in round numbers. The*valuation Scenic Highway, who generously
of the county this year will be $4,500,- waived their claims behalf of Mille
000 a 3-4 of one mill tax on that Lacs and Sherburne counties, it could
amount would produce $3,375. The not have been secured. In this con-
county commissioners could and un-, nection the people of Mille Lacs and
doubtedly would reduce the county Sherburne counties owe a debt of
levy from three mills to two mills, gratitude to Senators John H. Bald-
The one mill reduction the county win of Frazee and P. H. McGarry of
road and bridge tax would permit the Walker.
levying of a one mill tax to meet the
osition was gladly accepted by the
representatives of Mille Lacs county.
But then as now there were kickers
and retrogressives. The cry was raised
that if the bonds were voted the tax
rate would be enormously increased.
The bonds were voted nevertheless and
the railroad was built. At that time
the real estate valuation of the county
was considerable less than $1,000,000,
and there were only three organized
towns in the county
Greenbush and Milo. At
election, although the St. Cloud and and bridge purposes. And, as we have-. that part of Intrastate Road No. 2
Hinckley branch had been built four shown, a one mill tax would produce (Scenic Highway), between Princeton
years before, there were just seven more than sufficient to meet the inter- and Zimmerman, which means $3,000
voters in Milaca, and they voted I est. per mile for that ten mile stretch of
the town of Greenbush. None of the principal would become execrable road. That amount should
If Mr. Hill's proposition had not due before five years. By that time' provide a good clay-ballasted hard-
been accepted and the bonds had not i the valuation of the county would have surfaced road from Zimmerman to
been voted, the new branch of the i increased so that a one-mill tax each Princeton.
Great Northern would have been built year would care for the interest and Then, some will inquire, "why issue
further east, probably via Cambridge,, provide a respectable sinking fund to $75,000 in bonds when only $50,000 is
and if so Princeton might have been i meet the principal. With proper man- needed to meet the Federal aid on the
without a railroad until this day, and agement it would never be necessary i lake road We knew and the coun-
the grass would have been growing in to levy more than a one mill tax to ty commissioners knew, that a proposi-
its streets. Milaca might have de-
(sary
not to exceed five per cent per annum, extent of $50,000 is promised, provid
the bonds to run twenty years, for the ed a like amount is raised by the coun-
R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1916
roads of the county.
There is nothing secret or under
handed about the proposition. Every
thing is open and above board. There
is nothing to conceal or hold back.
At the outset let us make it plain
that a bond issue of $75,000 does not. roads by the State Highway Commis-
necessanly mean any increase in the sion, and that part of the Scenic High-
tax rate. We unhesitatingly assert way in Mille Lacs county is a long
THERE WILL BE NO INCREASE link in the continuous chain of high-
Princeton, interest on the bonds without increas- Highway Commission has agreed to
the bond mg the aggregate tax levy for road recommend $15,000 of Federal aid for
veloped into a Pease, and there would "Yes," the doubting Thomases will provement of a single road would not
have been no Pease or Long Siding, again exclaim, "but what assurances be adopted by the voters, neither
neither would there have been a single I have we that the county commission- should it. Five-sixths of the vote of
creamery south of the St. Cloud and ers will reduce the tax levy from three the county is located in the six south-
Hinckley branch. to two mills?" ern towns of the county. Hence it
But, as we have said, the bonds were Assuming that the commissioners was thought best, and certainly it was
voted and the railroad built. The in- will exercise common business sense fairer, to increase the bond issue to
terest on the- bonds was promptly paid there is every reason to believe that $75,000 and include the cross state
every year, and ten years ago the last! they will reduce the levy from three roads in the south end of the county,
dollar of the principal was paid and (to
there was no perceptible increase in to do so, and not jeopardize the road, the Greenbush town house.
the tax rate. In faet, as predicted by
the advocates of bonding, no taxpayer
ever noticed the increase.
Today we have a prosperous Prmce
ton, with the largest and best potato where four-fifths of the county and cessors in office, are in- honor bound to
market in the northwest, an equally state road and bridge funds have here-' carry out if the bonds are voted.
prosperous Milaca, with a creamery
output second to that of no town in
Minnesota, numerous creameries, pros
perous farmers, with improved farms
commanding from $75 to $125 an acre.
That $50,000 bond issue was the best
meet the interest and principal. tion to bond the county for the im-
of Intrastate Road No. 2 (Scenic High
way) Mille Xacs county. In other
words for the permanent improvement
of the road from Princeton to Mille
Lacs lake. Remember, Federal aid is
only recommended for main through
roads provides that only half of the
expense will be paid by the "United
States. In other words, the Federal
aid must be met dollar for dollar. The
per cental-' only way Mille Lacs county can pos-
the interest on the bonds, and we of Federal aid was secured without an
two mills, and they can well afford also the state road from Foreston to
mterests of the county, and for this Here is the program as outlined at
reason: If the program for road im-, the last meeting of the county com-
provment as mapped out goes through missioners, and which the present
all the important main highways,, members of the board, or their suc-
investment Mille Lacs county eter ment from the state road and bridge bridge fund, exclusive of maintenance, our friends of the northeast cornerneed
made. fund will grow larger yearly. $22,000 bond issue, $75,000. The'have no fears their interests will be
Thirty years ago $50,000 was more We reiterate that it willnotbeneces-
It should also be noted that the
tofore been expended, will be perma- The estimated total amount availa-
nently improved, and the same can be ble for permanent road improvement
properly maintained at a small ex- next year is placed at $147,000 if the
pense, hence a county road tax of two bonds are voted, to be derived from
mills or less will meet all require- the following sources: Federal aid, I agreement arrive at on the minutes of
ments, more especially as the allot- $50,000 state and county road and I their meeting as set forth above. But
sam
would be today. Then the valuation i ty road and bridge purposes over what 6, from Princeton village to the north' roads in the county and it is barely
of the county was hardly one million Jit is at present a fraction of a mill .line of the town of Dailey, $75,000 'possible that there may be a few
dollars, today it is almost $4,500,000. jto meet either the interest or principal for state roads Nos. 1 and 6, from'miles in both the north and south ends
At the election a week from next of the $75,000 bond issue. inorth line of town of Dailey to Mille'of the county that cannot be corn-
Tuesday a proposition will be submit- What is the proposition that calls Lacs lake, $25,000 for other state
ted to the voters to bond the county for a bond issue of $75,000? Here it roads in north end of county, $15,000 state roads will- be put in passable
to the extent of $75,000, with interest is a nutshell. Federal aid to the for that part of state road No. 3 m' condition, and the finishing touches
purpose of hard-surfacing the state ty for the improvement of that parti of Borgholm, $7,000 for that part of of the county against the bonding
to increase the tax rate for coun- follows: For state roads Nos. 1 and I to permanently improve all the state
the town of Milaca, $3,000 for that
part of state road No. 3 in the town
state road No. 5 in the town of Green
bush, $6,000 for that part of state
[road'No. 5 in the town of Milo, $6,000
'for that part of state road No. 4 in
ithe town of Greenbush, $4,000 for
that part of state road No. 4 in the
town of Princeton, $6,000.
This is a fair distribution and cares
for every part of the county.
Under whose supervision will the
money be expended? At least $100,-
000 will be expended under the joint
supervision of the State and Federal
road authorities, and it will "be a rigid
supervision, too. The other $47,000
will be under the supervision of the
State Highway Commission, and next
year the state will exercise a super
vision that will supervise. There must
be value received for every dollar ex
pended, and slip-shod methods will
not be tolerated. We have the per
sonal assurances of the members of
the Highway Commission that there
will be no lack of proper supervision.
The permanent improvement of
these roads will benefit every section
of the county^ Surely it is not neces
sary to set forth the advantages of
permanently improved hard-surfaced
roads to all classes of the community
and especially to the farmers?
Sooner or later these state roads
must be improved, for the state is giv
ing liberal aid and will insist upon
results being obtained, but under the
present piecemeal patchwork system
we are afraid it will be so "later" that
some of us will be a long time dead
before the improvements are made.
Here is an opportunity to secure the
improvements within one year from
this time and have the State and Na
tion defray half the total cost. Can
the intelligent, thinking voters of
Mille Lacs county afford to turn down
such a proposition when, as we have
plainly demonstrated, it will not be
necessary to increase the present tax
rate for county road and bridge pur
poses a fraction of a mill
You who do not live on the state
roads also should realize that the
great bulk of the state and county
road and bridge funds is expended on
these state roads now and will con
tinue to be expended upon them, under
the present system, for many years
to come wjthout attaining any perma
nent rWuKs-, and in the meantime the
lateral roads are shamefully neglected.
If the present state roads are perma
nently improved next year, then and
henceforth the larger share of the
county and state funds can be expend
ed on the lateral roads, or new state
roads can be established. There is no
reason why in another year the direct
road from Bock to Princeton and from
Bock northward should not be made
a state road, nor is there any good
reason why another state road should
not run through the center of Green
bush and Milo, from State Road No.
4 to State Road No. 3, and every mile
of State road on the east and west
sides of Mille Lacs lake should be put
in good condition.
Once more we wish to make it clear
that, under the present system the
county commissioners will of necessity
continue to levy the maximum county
road and bridge tax annually, viz,
three mills, and they will never get
anywhere as far as permanently im
proved roads are concerned but by
issuing bonds and reducing the annual
tax levy for county road and bridge
purposes we can secure permanently
improved roads now, and there need
not be the slightest increase in the
aggregate county road tax. -In brief
the county tax rate need never be
any higher than it is at present, and
with proper management it will not.
There are those the northeast
corner of the county who would like
to have the ballots designate just
where and on what roads the money
should be expended. It would be im
possible to do so. The only proposi
tion to be voted on is the $75,000 bond
issue. The amount it is proposed to
expend on permanent road improve
ments is $147,000. The Federal aid
must be expended on one continuous
stretch of the main north and south
road, and $50,000 will be required to
meet the Federal aid. The county
commissioners did the only thing they
could do when they extended the
is to be distributed on roads as cared for without doubt The aim is
pletely cared for next year but all the
can be given by, another year. There
should not be a vote in the north end
proposition.
It is absolutely certain that if the
program as above outlined falls
through it will be many long weary
years before the roads in the vicinity
of the lake are permanently improved.
The lake people have everything to
gain and nothing to lose if the pro
position carries. No section of the
county will derive more benefit from
permanently improved roads than the
lake region.
Next to the lake region Milaca
stands to gain most if road-improve
ment is carried out as detailed in this
article. Hard-surfaced roads leading
into Milaca from the north, south,
east and west spells increased pros
perity for that prosperous village.
Only a year ago last spring business
was paralyzed in Milaca for several
weeks owing to the awful condition of
the roads leading into the village.
The railroad was the only means' of
ingress or egress. If our ambitious
neighbor is to be the future capital
of the county we ought to have good
roads to travel on to get there. But
twenty additional prosperous farmers,
such as good roads would bring, would
be worth more to Milaca or Princeton
either than the, county seat.
Princeton, of course, will also bene
fit, but in a smaller degree, from per
manently improved roads.
But the class who will be benefited
most of all are the farmers, more es
pecially so when a system of good
lateral roads connect with the main
roads, and little aid can be extended
to the lateral roads by the State until
the main roads are put in good con
dition. Once the mam roads are per
manently improved more attention
will be bestowed on the lateral roads.
In conclusion, we have demonstrated
that it will be unnecessary to increase
the tax levy to meet either the inter
est or principal on the bonds if they
are voted, we have also shown that
a rigid supervision will be exercised
over the expenditure of the funds and,
we think we have covered every point
from every angle, and now a personal
word.
The publisher of the Union has
been a resident of Mille Lacs county
for more than forty years. In all
those years we have never advocated
a measure that we have not believed
was for the best interests of the coun
ty, and for the whole county. Our
vision is not limited to the confines of
Princeton village nor even to the boun
daries of Mille Lacs county. With all
our heart and soul we believe in good
roads. No other agency can be more
productive of greater happiness and
prosperity for a greater number of
people than good roads. For years we
have labored strenuously, within as
well as without the halls of legislation,
to promote the cause of good roads.
We have no political ambition to grati
fy. We have no lands to boom, are
not in the business of road and bridge
building, and have no road machinery
to sell. We have never drawn a dol
lar, directly or indirectly, from the
road and bridge funds of the state or
county and never expect to, hence we
cannot be accused of selfish and mer
cenary motives. Our only gospel is
the gospel of good roads. We want
our county to lead the van in the
good roads movement. We have
reached and passed the sixtieth^ mile
stone, and in a few more short years
will be numbered with those who were.
After we are gone, if a passing thought
is ever bestowed on us, we would like
to have it said of us that we were in
a small way instrumental in securing
for Mille Lacs county its splendid
system of good roads, and further
more, before we go we would like to
see and ride over good roads in every
township of the county.
Not Properly Maintained.
A valued Milo subscriber complains
of the neglect of a road that the peo
ple of the northeastern corner of Milo
must travel to get to Milaca. The
Milaca township road authorities
ought to-vCare for the road in ques
tion but they do not. This is not an
isolated jiase. Similar complaints
have reached us from other towns.
In devising amendments to the road
law next winter we shall bear in mind
our Milo friend's suggestions.
Automobile Burns.
Dr. Nellie Shulean's automobile was
destroyed by fire last Saturday night.
She called on a.patient and was crank
ing the car for the return trip to Cam
bridge when in some unknown manner
it caught on fire and attempts to ex
tinguish the flames were useless. An
insurance adjuster was up from the
city yesterday to settle the loss.Isan
ti News.
For Rent. Remember Attorney General Smith-
Steam heated room and meals. will speak at the court house hall on.
Roscommon (Mich.) Bugle. 'Monday afternoon.
VOLUME XL. NO. 45
GUY EWING DEAD
He Has Been Identified With Schools
of Mille Lacs County for
More Than Thirty Years.
Has Been Superintendent of Public
Instruction of This County
Continuously Since 1904.
At an early hour this morning Guy*
Ewing passed away. For weeks past
his life has trembled in the balance
in fact faint hopes of his recovery
were entertained from the commence
ment of his recent illness about five
weeks ago. For more than two years
past he had been affected with dia
betes, but he did not seem to realize
that anything was the matter with
him and attended to the duties of the
office of school superintendent and his
other business as usual, until the 20th
of last month when a slight scratch on
his foot developed Into blood poison
ing and he was obliged to take to his
bed later gangrene set in and his con
dition gradually grew worse until the
end came.
The funeral services will be held in
the armory at 2 p. m. Saturday. Seats
will be reserved for the teachers and
school officers of the county who may
care to attend.
Mr. Ewing was born in Wood coun-
Guy Ewing
ty, Ohio, October 20, 1855. He was
married to Martha Olivia Stottle
in his native state 1875she died
March 17, 1897. The Ewings came
west in 1882, and Mr. Ewing taught
school for a year or two in Spencer
Brook. In 1883 he assumed charge of
the Princeton schools, and for more
than ten years was principal of the
same. Later he was principal of the
Milaca school. In 1904 he was elected
superintendent of schools of Mille Lacs
county, an office which he held con
tinuously without opposition up to the
time of his death.
On July 7, 1898, Mr. Ewing was
married to Miss Anna Kerrick of
Foreston. It was a happy union and
they were intensely devoted to each
other. During his illness he was ex
tremely nervous and could not bear
to have anyone but his faithful wife
minister to his wants, and she was
unremitting in her efforts to ease and
comfort him. She has the sympathy
of the entire community her be
reavement.
Guy Ewing was one of those sunny
dispositioned men whom it was a
pleasure to know. He made friends
wherever he went. His long services
in the Princeton and Milaca schools,
and his continuous re-election as
school superintendent is indicative not
only of his great popularity but also
of his sterling worth and ability.
Mr. Ewing was a consistent member
of the Methodist church, and was
broadly tolerant in his religious views.
He was deeply interested in the eause
of education and labored assiduously
to increase the efficiency of the public
schools of the county. He was the
especial friend of the young teachers,
and many of them have reason to hold
him in grateful recollection. In every
school district in Mille Lacs county
Guy Ewing leaves behind him friends
who will long continue to cherish,
his memory.
Spud Prices Advance.
Potato prices have landed on the
elevator again, and from $1.00 to
$1.25 is being paid on the Princeton
market. The movement is brisk, and
numerous spuds are being marketed
here. Shipments from this point have
been light of late, due to inability to
get refrigerator cars.
