-.. H.E ENTrE RPRI SE.1.
Vr 19MALTA, MONTANA; rpII:.URL4I)ýY. t r( TOI3EýR 26. 1916 -_NO. 28
Why The Phillips County
Republicans Were Nominated
HERE IS WHAT HiJRTSSº
The Stewart administration has
defeated itself. All that is required
of the republicans to win a sweep
ing victory is to set the facts before
the people. The record of democ
racy in the past four years is one
that is indefensible.
First comes extravagance and
waste of public funds. This is shown
by the number of new offices creat
ed and which give but little. or no
service-numerous enough, accord
ing to high -democratic authority. "to!
fill to overflowing forty vacant
rooms atthe capitol." Then there is.
the horde of deputy game wardens,
deputy sealers and weighers, deputy
examiners and, Lord knows whonm
else. While the state educational in-:
st~itutions are overcrowded and lack
Sthe necessary facilities and funds,
the business of increasing the num
ber of political hacks, as part and
parcel of the Tammany machine,
goes bravely on. Millions for polit-'
ical spoils, but not one cent of in
crease for the necessary requirement
of the consolidated university. The
The governor and the board of ex
a miners veto necessary expenses for
education, but never fail to approve!
waste of funds on political spoils
mien.
Second, is the failure of this ad-'
mniinstration to add to decrease of
state trust funds said decrease taxes;
Sby loanin ¢ said idle funds to farm
era and ranchers on first mortgage
security, the highest form of security
The present administration has been
intensely hostile to such wise and'
safe investment of trust funds. Why?
It is un to them to explain and de
fend their vicious conduct in this be
half. Why do Stewart and his co-'
officials of state fight so strenuously
the increase of income to trust funds
of state institutions, and why are
they so vindicatively hostile to farm
ers and ranchers obtaining money at!
reasonable and just interest rates by:
borrowing these idle funds? This
conduct alone is sufficient to defeat
the entire democratic ticket.
Third, is the gross misconduct of
democratic state officials. They have
commercialized tihe state offices.
They have made merchandise of
them. They have used them as a
coin of advantage for their own pri
vate gain.
There is the public bonding and
sulrety monopoly for private gain.
The petty and conteemptible auto tin
tag graft, yet amounting to an aggre
gate of several thousand dollars a
year. There i ^" the mnalodorous and
disreputable f'orthwestern 't'rustee
Company, of which it has been pun
ishingly said by the grand jury and;
the judge of the Federal court, that I
men in "high o % cia~l sstation," as a '
"prevalent practice," "sold the use I
of their names for shares of stock."
Finally the uttter failure of this ad-.,
ministration to correct and punishl
these abuses and enforce the law.
This is the record the Stewart ad
ininistraton is tryiing to hide and es- aefo.I osiue ann
record of condemnatory -facts. There t
is more of it, but this is enough with
no additions.
No wonder they wish to muddle t
and obscure the issues. It is certan
ly a record of disgrace and shame.
The Republicans need not misrep
resent, exaggerate or denounce. A
plain recital of the record suffices.
_________________________________________
General Grant said: "Let us have
peace." But he did not add, " at i
any price,"
The Iirst NJational Bank
MALTA, MONTANA
TRANSACTS
A.General Banking Business
ACCEPTS DEPOSITS
Of Individuals, Firms and Corporations upon
Favorable Terms
LOANS MONEY ON, APPROVED SECURITY
MAKES FARM LOANS
HAS SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES TO RENT, $2 A YEAR
PAYS INTEREST ON TIME DEPOSITS
WE INVITE YOUR ACCOUNT
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK
Member Federal Reserve Bank of the United SItates.
MALTA, MONTANA
lDr. George W. Clay was nonminat-
Sed for the office of state senator, be
I cause he is qualified for the position
-having served In the legislature in
the capacity of representative andI
-senator from Valley county for the
e past four years. In the senate his
every effort will be for Phillips coun
ty, and its interests first, last and all
the time. Tile doctor is one of the
-pioneers of northern Montana, con
sequently knows what the people
-need.
Dud 1ev Jones of Dodson, was nom
tinated for the office of representative
.because his business has brought
him in contact with the farmers of
Phillips county, and he 1s familiar
with their requremets, and if elected
- will stand' for everything that will in
;any way be beneficial to the farmers.
Mr. Jones has a wide business exper
-ience, and is qualified for the posi
It tion in every way and if you desire
to have Philips county represented
-~in the state legislature, Mr. Jones is
the man you are looking for.
LW. D. Miller, C. C. Mills and Jos.
H-artman were nominated for the
-office of county commissioner for the
Ireason that they are representative
mlcitizens of Phillips county and large
taxpayers, consequently they stand
Ifor good roads, good schools,ecn
eo-omy, reduction of the county indebt
edness and a material reduction in
the taxes.
John J Brennan was niminated
for the office of clerk and recorder
'for the reason that ho is a highly ed
I'cated farmer, and competent and
capable of filling the position in
every respect, and the republicans,
Ifeeling that the farmers of Phillips
Icounty are entitled to be represented
I Brennan in nomination, and feel
in county affairs have placed Mr.
Brennan in nomination, and feel
that he is entitled to the support of
every republican in Phillips county,
and, if elected he will be the right
lmau in the right place.
Marvin Jones was nominated for
the office of sheriff for the reason
that he is one of the pioneers of
Montans, familiar with all conditions
which have existed in the past, and
which exist to a greater extent at,
the present time. He stands for
promptness, fairness and honesty,
anod his every effort will be for the
enforcement of the law, impartially
and irrespective of the consequences.
Mr. Jones is under no pledge or ob
ligation to any individual or clique
in Phillips county, and a vote for Mr.
Jones will be a vote for the enforce
ment of the laws, the protection of
3 our property and economy inl the
administration of the office.
C. M. Porter came to Montana
from North Dakota several years ago
during which time he has been en
gaged in dry land farming south of
Dodson, and was elected at the time
of the creation of Phillips county to
tile office of clerk of the court, and
has served in that capacity since that
Ittine. He was renominated for the
reason that he has proven himself to
be prompt, courteous and efficient in
the administration of the affairs of
his office, and his demeanor in office
entitles him to the endorsement of
the people of Phillips county. A vole
for Mr. Porter will be a vote for an
economical official, and a continu
ance of efficiency in the office of clerk
of the court.
Morris J. Dabney was nominated
for the office of county treasurer for
the reason that he is unquestionably
the most competent man for the office
in the county, having served the peo
ple of Phillips county as treasurer
WE AI1E NOT "OUT OF WARl"
From the democratic standpoint
bedominant issue of the campaign
bas been the assertion that the pres
ident "has kept us out of war." The
admiinistration's chief appeal fox
his contnuance n office rests upon
those six words.
Of course It is not true, Trhe pres
ident has not kept us out of wvar,
He put us into war when, before con
gress had given him power , he em
ployed the "armed forces of the
United States" to enforce a personal
decree in Mexico and he repeated the
operation when he ordered the
troops to invade the sam country.
Battles have been fought and
blood has been shed by the regular
soldiers of both countres to a far
greater extent than has been com
nmonly supposed. We are at war now
and will continue to be so long as
an American soldier remains on for=
sign soil against theprotest of that
duly recognized foreign government..
As to the European situation and
the central powers, the president
has not kept us out of war with
them. They have kept out of war
with us for most excellent reasons oi
thir own. Mr. Wilson invited
trouble when he handed the Aus
trian ambassador his passports, but
the Austrian Emperor refused to
l ake up the gauge of battle. It was
he, not the President, who averted
hostilities by disregarding what at
another tine would have been con
sidered sufficient excuse, if not, in
deed, the positive necessity of a na
tion proud enough to fight.
And it is not Woodrow Wilson who
has kept us out of war with Ger
many. It is the Kaiser. The Presi
dent's notes have been truculent en
ough to make war over and over
Edwin L. Norris, who will speak here Novem
ber 2nd, it will be remembered, was the person who
as Governor of Montana, appointed Frank N. Utter 4
as a judge of the District Court.
for the past two years, which in It
self shows the confidence which has
been placed] in him by the people of
Phillips county, and 'demonstrates
that lie is a man of honesty and in
tegrity.
GAeorge C'. Russell was nominated
for the office Or county assessor be
cause of his exceptional fitness for
the position. Mr. Russell has lived
in the vicinity of Lovejoy and Saco
for the past eight years. During the
first six "ears of this tinii lie was
engaged in dry land farming in the
vicinity of Lovejoy, and for th 1 ,ast
two years has been in charge of the
St. Anthony and Dakota Elea ator at
Saco, being a tsxpayer and farmer
himself, Mr. Russell knows what
f'alirners and economy mean to the
people of Phillips county, and es
pecially the farmer, and, if elected,
Mr. Russell will conduct the office in
'i fair, honest and economical man
ner, and will see that the large in
terests pay taxes on their entire
holdings, and that the farmer will
not be compelled to pay more taxes
in proportion than the large proper
ly owner.
Miss Flora Sims was nominated
"'or the office of superintendent of
schools for the reason that in this
office more than any oher experience
is the gi'eatcst qualtifiation. Miss
Sims served the people of Valley'
county in the capacity of superin
tendent of schools for four years,
and in Phillips county since its cre
ation, during which time she has
conducted the office upon an econom
ical basis, and has done more for the
uphuilding and advancement of the
public s; hools than any otl er person
who has ever filled to': oJ~ee. A vote
iti' Al1 is., Sims mes is a (.~itittuance
or an econiomical adminirirat on and
firther advancement In i "i! schools.
II. F. Richardso~i was rnmin~ated
foi hle ffilce of couinty surveyor for
tie iet ton that he is a civil co~ineer
o~f excep~tional ability and vast evper
iouiev. M~i. Richardson has served
the people of Phillips county as
county surveyor since its creation.
during which time he has done a
groat deal for the establishment and
construction of good roads and
bridges at economical prices. Good
roads and hridges and money saved
'means more to the farmer than any
other one thing, and a vote for Mr.
Richardson ia a vote for better roads
l'or less money to the taxpayers.
Fred C. Gabriel was nominated
for the office of county attorney for
the reason that lie is a lawyer of in
ilii~ittioned aubility aind integrity, hay
igbeen engaged in the practice of
law in Phillips conty for the past two
vyeirs. Prior to whichi time lie was
engaged ii' the practice oh law fo"
several years at South tBeiid int]
during which tinie lie built up a We
rsative practice, and made an envia-'
ide repulatiion for himiself. Thle offhee
of county attorney requires 'in in
cunibeni that has had sufficient legal
ra inuing anid experience, to give himt
Ihe matutre judgment which couts'
only after years of practice( mid Mli,
Gabriel having such quaIlticit ins,
it goes with out saying thatif el mct";] 1
he will fulfill the duties of thme oili' if
with Hilontor to himself and liiip' 10111
`i 1 'illlips county'. A vote ior Mr.i
tGabriel is a vote for the enforcement 1
of the laws, pronmptness in the dlie-
patch of the business, and a ieuctun
l ion in tlue expenses of the county t- I
imirney's office.
R. V. Tucker was nonuiinani+ I Ii)
WII AT W, SHI-NG ON SAID
''There is a rank du, 1.0 the United
tSta~tes whii':h will he witlhhelid, if not.
-ab'solutely lost, by the reputation of
weaknesst."
This remark may he construed as
ºa vicious attack upon President Wil
son, and his friends may keenly re
-sent it. President Wilson has often
suggested that criticism of this kind
is unpatriotic.
The masn who uttered this remtark
w' old be set downs today as opposed
tto President Wilson. But the man
is not living now. His name was
George W~ashington.
Senator Martiue clearly has a
cause of action againust the president
for his a, tempt to alienate the affec
tions of the voters of New Jersey.
again, hut Germany has averted con
filet at each physiological moment
out of considerations of her own wel
fare, not as a consequence of any of
the many things the President hsas
written. And she has done it in her
own sweet way at hser own chosen
time.
There are not many discerning
persons in these United States States
wvho believe that we have been in
danger of war at any stage. Nobidy
could afford to drag us in and nobody
has dohe so. That is all there is to
It. If .we had convinced all warring
powers, at the outset that we really
meant to maintain our rights as a
neutral,, we would have obtained'
them beyond thse shadow of a doubt.
But our shillyshalling with Mexico
had indicated all too plainly that
they could play fast and loose with
us with impunty. And they bevel
done-both sides.
SCHOOL NOTES.
The landing between the first anti
second floors of the school house
has been brightened by a plant, a
"Jerusalem Cherry," a gift to the
school by Mrs. Clanton. It is an ax
cellent plant, and it is admired by
all who see it.
Inez Field has returned to school
after an extended visit at home.
George Wolfe makes the thirty
sixth high school pupil.
Thel( second mionth is concludetd
1 , - with special plrogramsa in
sonie of the rooms.
'There are several absences On ac
count of minor sicknesses. Some are
..c~ailiea truin senuot this weeK 10y
.perations to remove adenoids. It
s indeed fortunate that the presence
of a specialist visiting in the coin
lilunity makes it plossible to have this
done.
Not. for mercenary gain, but to
present clean, wholesome entertain
ment is the high school trying to
make the lyceum course possible.
The success of this undertaking re
quires the loyal support of the entire
comniunity. The course will be pre
sented in the new Odd Fellows' hall
T]here will be lois of room, and we
shouldl have it full every nigh~t. To
insure a large attendance the frienids
ol tihe schlool are urged to purchase
season tickets before the opening
n~ight. The two concerts, the lecture
lhe cortonisit, and tihe reader com
lose a program of sterling merit.
You wvill like them all. Season
tickets are on sale at tile Valley
Drug store, at the school house, and
by a number of the high school pu
pils, Will you not vote now in fa
vor of your own boys and girls?
Tile first number will come 'here
Thursday, Nov. 2.
Every tailored to measure gar
mlent that we sell is guaranteed in
every detail ,style, service, fit, value.
You take n10 chance ill ordering
from the line of United States Tail
oring company. Your clothes must
satisfy you or money back. Their
tailored apparel will appeal with
telling force to the dressy young
follows. Snap, spirit, in style, sport
suits, club suits, butsliness suits. A
great variety and all made to meas
lire. Prices always low. Call on
Winl. Lillie, the tailor.
H-oin. Dan Mcl~ay, one of the main
spiokes in the democratic wheel, is
ill the city today telling -them all
ilabout tihe political game.
The New Jerse' returns show that
11he l'residlent has lost his powera
(,'iler to coax or hoax the voters of
Its former state.
IN oe utice of Coroner. hiecatise lie is
.;rvedl in that capacity for tile past
Iwo years, and by reason (If his prior
' \perience if elected lie wil fill the
oftice to the satisfaction of the peo- a
Ilie tof Phillips countya
All of the above nlamlei persons are
I'lnoiing upon their own inldividual
t~rits, and have made 110 promise
or pledges regardling the appolilt
Illoit of deputies or assistants, anid,
if electedi they will -o into office with Ii
Heliri hands free, and will not be
under tihe rule, influence or dicta- I ;
l ion of ally person or piersomns, whlich ! 1.
in itself netcessarily insumres a good,
tic' it.
~JAmenable, Docile, Plastic
Hand Very Tractable
The present Stewart democratic
administrationi has always been am
enable, docile, plastic, tractable and
compliant to the demands and re
quiremcnts of big business and of
'invisible government" in Montana.
When has it over opposed such de
mands When has it ever had a con
flict with such requirements? When
have big business and invisible gov
ernment ever had cause to complain
of, or oppose the Stewart adminis
tration? It was satisfactory to thenm
when chosen in the election of four
years ago, it has been satisfactory
ever since, it is satisfactory now.
They seek and want no change. They
desire above all things four years
more of the Stewart administration
When the interests of big busi
ness come ini conflict with the inter
ests of the people under the admin
istration, big business has always
had its way and the rights o fthe
people were biaseely betrayed and
surrenderedl. Think, if you can, of a
singl,. exception to ihis course of
conduct.
When the farmers of Montana
clamored for a farm loan mortgage
law, so they could obtain loans of
idle state funds at reasonable inter
est rates, and thus escape the clutch
as of the money loan sharks, big
business opposed such salutary re
lief and Stewart and Kelly and Poins
dexter and Rae said "no" to the far
mers and fawingly obeyed the behest
)f big business.
It was the same with transporta
tion abuses, grain inspection and de
mands for equal and just taxation.
There have been no exceptions. The
denmocratic administration has' al
ways been the pliant servant and
tool of big business. And why?
Because, "The ox kuoweth its
owner, and the ass his master's crib"
There now come from authentic
sources a report that at least one of
the great railway transportations
lines in Montana is engaged in a~n ac
tive campaign to elect Stewart gov
ernor, and to defeat Frank J. Ed -
wards for that office. Other huge
oorporatnons are repsorted to be
about to follow the same course.
This pernicious intermid dung of
big b~usiless w~ith local government. is
b)0th shortsighted and lmntbe
TIt is to be sincerely regretted, but
not leared. Such minermeddling with
bie pleoile's bus'iness inevitably
br'ings just and condhgn punishment
11)01 the offenders. It the voters
learn that big bus~inies 'and invisible
government, Ito their own selfish
purposes, are fight in'g Edwards and
working and ht eating tor Stewart,
the victory for Edwanrds will be a
certainty.
No ouce is making war upon this
great transportation line, nor is any
war threatened, or intended. All
that Edwards as governor will re
quire of big business is that it pays
"air and deals justly with the people.
That he will uphold the just rights
of the people iii all times is a cer
tainty, a~nd even big business must
acknowledge such a position to be
right.
But Edwards will never he the
tocol of big business. He will not
take orders from it. If a tool in the
governorship is what it asks and re
quires, Edwards will disappoint it.
But the wrath of the people ex
ten~ds far. Their retort is drastic
punishmnent. Why needlessly incur
that wrath? Why wantonly start
sonmething you are certain to regret?
MISSION AT CORPUS
CHRISTi ('HURCH.
A four days' mission, opening at
high mass at 10:30 a. in., Sunday,
October 29th, will be given at Corpus'
Christi church by thse Paulist mis
sionary, Rev. Father Aninan of Port-;ý
land, Ore. On Sunday Fr. Aninan
will announce the time for the fol
lowing services. All welcome.
Father Sheehsy will bold services
at Lovejoy next Sunday, Oct. 2 9th.
To trade for stock.-Four lots in'
Ugland addition, each lot 160x240 ft.
Address P. 0. box 461, Malta 2w28*
SxS~a$S$S6ss$ sssssssssss4sýssss.ssss. iss$$
Create a Reserve Fund
'9 Our every facility for the prl)oipt anid accurate
handling of financial mnatters, the proper care of our
40patrons interests, is being constantly imnprovedl and i
dev elop~ed to the point of greatest utility. You are 4
apractieal mnan-wbv not put the Personal Worth of
this Service squarelyup to your lbetter' jndliuiieit?
Investigate and Know wliotlher or not this service of
0urs '~Will help You to L'Iilte, 0 larger 1('s0Pve fund.
'THEff FIRST STATE BANK
IN AND) AROUND THE
COUNTY COURT HOUSE.
1Tihe regular session of the district
court for Phillips county closed last
Thursday, the civil actions having
all been continued for the time being
although there is rumor of a special
session being called hy Judge Utter
some time in November when an
Outside judge will he called in to
try a numher of cases in which the
Spresiding judge has been disquali
fled.
The attention of the court for the
greater part of the session was oc
pied by the Walter James murder
case, a great many witnesses being
called and the case attracted no end
of attention all over Northern Mont
aria. The jury returned a verdict of
acquittal Thursday morning, and
:~thedefendant was given his liberty.
He had been out, on bonds for some
time previous to tire trial.
Ini tire case of the State of Mont
ana vs. Eli McIntyre. The defend
ant nsked permrission to change his
plea of "niot Guilty" to one of
1 "guilty" which was granted arid tire
court sentenced the defendant to a
orinilmuni of one year and a maxi
mium term of two years at hard
labor in the state prison at Deer
Lodge. This case was a larceny case
arid McIntyre has been in jail for
some inte.
The case of the state of Montana
vs. Walter Sizer, was tried by a jury
who fournd him "not guilty,, as
charged in theiridictmierit and lie was
released. Sizer is the fellow who
was accused o fstealing cattle belong
irng to the Coburn Cattle company
arid Jake Myers.
rin tire case of the state vs. Thos.
Delano, the defendant was found
guilty as charged, by a jury. and
sentenced to two and one-half years
in prison by the cresidirig judlge.
Delano is the man who stole the
shoes from Judge Davidson's store
at Wagner. Both Delano and Mcmi
tyre wvere taken to Deer Lodge the
last of the week by Deputy Sheriff
Harvey Heming and Special Guard
Pierson.
County Treasurer Dabriey arid his
chief depurty, Cecil Grace, have been
about the busiest persons in tire
north wing of the court house this
week on account of the large oumiher
who are coming in to pay their year
ly taxes. Receipts for' three weeks
in October erdinrg Ttuesday, Oct. :14,
amounted to $4,250.71, as cooi
pared with $2,878.01 for the same
pteriod of last year'.
The office of tire county clerk arid
recorder is riot falling bhreiind its
ususal brisk record as tire fees alone
for lire first three weeks of this
monthil have been more than those
repiorted in other' cournties of thre
state nearly three times the size of
tire "baby" county of Phillips.
In the office of tire clerk of the dis
trict court work oni making up tire
rmonthrly reports of jurors arid wit
rnesses tees has taken up the time of
Clerk Porter and his deputy, be
sides tire filing of tire numrier'ous doc
umnents that are brought in daily
for filing.
D~urirrg the past week thre official
registration list for the coming gem
eral election has all bwern preptared
in this office arid sent to the county
I prlinter wiro in turrn hass printed anrd
delivered sanme to the office arid
clerks are now engaged in sending
the lists to the respective voting pre
ciricts. Tire copy of the official als
lot has also been gotten out this
week and is now in the hands of tire
printer.
Over at the sheriff's office consid
er'able work has been done looking
after civil mtatters arnd attending to
the usual routine of work in this de
partrmenrt. Jim Abramnis officiated as
jailor a few days during the absence
of Deputy Heming, and Jim says this
is the first time he was ever in jail
in his life. Under Sherif Nelsont
has been kept in the office most of
the time tire past week on account of
Sheriff Shiaw being absent ir other'
prarts of the courrty on official bursi
ness.
