THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Local rains to-day, colder at night; to
morrow fair; westerly winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 59; lowest, 48.
Detailed weather, malt and marina reports on put II,
he
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXIV.NO. 56.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1916 . Copyright, 1916, bg the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
ONE CENT
la Greater. New Votk,
Jersey Cltj and Nun ark.
) Elsewhere
TWO CKNTS.
HUGHES BRANDS
WILSON'S PEACE
AS ONE OF FEAR
Candidate Declares His
Kind Will Be Founded
'on Principles.
NO FOREIGN POWER
WILL DESPISE U. S.
Nominee Tells Brooklyn
Audience That He's Con
fident of Election.
FOR PREPAREDNESS
THAT IS NO SHAM
Wants Less Attention to
Punctuation and Jlore
to Targets.
Brooklyn cava to Charles E. Hughes
last night the finest reception he has
received anywhere In hla campaign for
tha Presidency. In the Academy of
Music 4.000 persona greeted him with
a quality of friendliness that could
not r an Instant be mistaken and.
applauding constantly, manifested
equally unmistakable approval for his
programme of protection of American
rights against any nation.
Outside the Academy S.000 persons
surged In the streets for two hours,
their cheers for Mr. Hughes sweep
ing through the open windows. It
was the sort of greeting that eent
Brooklyn Republicans to their homes
convinced that the borough is strongly
for Hugnes; the sort that seemed to
inspire and uplift Mr. Hughes him
self to his greatest forcefulness.
Neither the size of the crowd Inalde
the Academy nor the great number of
those unable tq get Into the opera
house nor tha Incessant crash of ap
proving cheers was so Imprcssivo as
was the "feel- of friendliness In the
sir. The thing was palpable.
"It at the seeeb.
The meeting In Brooklyn fitted the
character of Mr. Hughes's speech, the
most Important of his campaign. It was
his desire to roll Into one address as
reiuretely and definitely as lay In him
his most downright opinions on the
recognised Issues of ih tim.. a n.Afi .
fanlsm, a tariff to protect prosperity, a
'enunciation of Executive surrenders, a
Ko.nlse of economy and efficiency In
government.
In some of thesa. utterance there was,
Mr. Hughea remarked, "no thrills to
cresp up any one's spine," but he mudn
p'aln facts and simple figures emphatl
flly Interesting. The cheers rang out
or these as well as for his reiterated
promise that If he la elected President
of the United States, no nation on earth
.'hall treat tha United Statea with con
tumely or contempt.
Never before lias he Indicated so
strongly his utter contempt for Presi
dent Wilson's brand of Americanism,
"id yet he managed to preserve re
straint of speech and dignity of bear
ing. This contempt flashed out of many
phrases and always to the high delight
or the audience. lie said in the course
or the speech :
"If you want peace, take counsel of
ur principles, not your fears." and
to. explosion of shrapnel In Ilrooklyn's
Umple of music could scarcely have
made morn commotion than tlie Instant
nout of approval.
He scored the Administration for
neglecting a plain duty of preparedness,
ylng:
"I criticise nn Administration which,
with world at war and Mexico In the
condition it was. neglected this matter."
nu again the building resounded with
rneering. When he mentioned the ap
propriations for army and navy and
MKd the question, "Under -whose lead
mhlp will thla money be spent?" there
tre cries from a dosen places, "Tours !'
onn "
Epigram ef Rebuke.
He pointed his rebuke for unprepared
J". with an epigram which first stirred
e lsughter and then cheers:
"If we are to have a navy to protect
ui we must pay ltss attention to punc
tuation and more to tat gets!"
He left nobody In doubt as to his
confidence that he nil! be elected, put
Inr his assurance In these words;
"If I am elected President, as I expect
to be, w are going to have a business,
ilk administration of our Government
under a budget system."
Mr Hughes made the points of his
MJresi, which lasted an hour and twenty
minutes the longest speech he has de
livered In the campaign especially ef
fective by submitting them especially to
the consideration of "Young America"
the young men of the country, whose fu
ture, as he phrased It, will depend
greatly upon what Is done by th men
"mtng to power at this time. The
Academy audience was made up largely
of young men, many first voters. Tho
meeting was held under the auspices of
the Brooklyn Young Men's Republican
Club.
Accompanied by Mrs. Hugties, Na
tional fhalrman William a Wlllro and
' J. II Kracke, Mr. .Hughes left the
Hotel Attor at a few minutes -before
I' M and. after a quick motor trip
ejwn through Manhattan and over tha
Mtnhattan Bridge, a Journey carefully
lulded by motor policemen, arrived at
tin A'ademy at 8 :10 P. M.
A Mock away from the building Mr.
Hughes's motor car began to crawl
inrritiRh dense crowds. Men struggled to
"t close to the limousine, waving tlielr
at, and cheering. The shriller welcome
r'f women rose In thin friendly chorus.
Inside tha Academy 4,000 persons had
'n waiting since 7 P. M wien the
"lion were closed after every seat and
very foot of standing room had been oc
cupied, When ths candidate appeared at the
Co HMOS' on lialh off.
THRILLING RESCUE
MARKS FATAL FIRE
Girl Trapped on Factory Hoof
Carried Down by Daring
Lnddcrman.
TWO WOMEN DIE II Y FALLS
Bloze at "21-25 East Houston
St. Docs 9150,000 Damage
in nn Hour.
Ida Goldberg stood on the top of a Washington, Oct. IB. Grave reports
flaming aeven story factory at 21 Host j concerning events In northern Mexico
Houston street last night. Ileslde her ,' reached the State Department nnd the
was a lifeline, dangling to a roof below, i War Department to-day. It may be only
Relow her was a ladder, around which a question of days, If not of hours, be
flames belched. Klght people had gone fore all northern Mexico Is In open re
down that ladder, six of them safely, belllon against First Chief Carrania.
and two rolled down on their rescuers Carrania's followera and even den.
and had been killed. She could not use .Trevlno himself are hurrying their fam-
tne ladder and she waa afraid to use
the line.
So she stood there and screamed
.while 1,000 persons stood In Xafayette
street and yelled to her not to lumv.
ft tvns HsrV mnA frnm thj. hlnvlno hulltl. '
lug great showers of spnrks spurted
and drifted as If from a giant Itoman
candle. They lit the roof of the tene
ment house next door, which reached to
the fifth floor of the factory. Firemen
were working desperately there to raise
a life net Into which she could Jump.
Ilut while they were fussing with It
John Walsh of Hook and Ladder 8
Jumped forward Into what Chief Kenlon
rays was one of the moat thrilling res
cues New Yorl: has ever seen.
Strang; an lliitnnn Chain.
Between the tenement house and the
rear of the factory Is a court reaching
toward Crosby street, but which Is
stopped by an extension of the factory.
Ida Goldberg was on the top of this
extension with a ring of flame about
her nnd drawing nearer every second
aa Walsh go? Into action. Two other
firemen, Sloane of Walsh's company and
Dcvlne of Hook and Ladder 3. swung
him out until he could grip the ledge l
of a window on the fifth floor of the
factory extension.
He balanced there, looking up a mo
ment at the flames shooting out above
him. and then reached back for the tiny
scaling ladder which they tossed to hhn.
As he gripped It and swung It up with a
crash Into the sill of the window above
the crowd below saw what he was going
to do and let out a shout of admiration
and encouragement.
It didn't seem as If anything but a sal
amander could go through that blase
and lire, but Walsh was helped there a
bit by his comrades ou the roof below.
They turned two high pressure streams
Into the flames that roared from the win
dows above him and drove them In.
Walsh swarmed up the ladder and then
the amoke from the doused dames
swirled around him and he was lost to
sight.
When he reappcarod he was clamber
ing out of the smoke vluud to the sill of
the seventh and top Hour window. An
Iron bar was across lUU and he gripped
il and swung himself up so that he couldBfamillar with the Mexican situation here
reacn toward the shrieking girl above
him. Her cries to bo saved could easily
Ire heard abovu tho noise of the llnmes
and roaring water. He motioned to her
to drop, and somehow she got courage
enough to do It
The llrl crawled to the edge of tho
roof nnd dropped Into Ills arms and
Walsh strained and swung sideways un
der the shuck. Her bead dropped over
hla shoulder as she fainted and eho be
came dead weight In his arms. He care
fully felt for the swinging little ladder
beneath, dropped foot to una of the
rpura on the side, and then let himself
down with Ids burden Into the smoke
clouds that again lit w up nnd hid him.
rlothlu uf Until Kinged.
An Walsh crept past the windows
of the sixth and llftl floors little Jets
of flame from the furnace that raged
Inside shot out I'ven through the wator
curtain and licked at Ills clothing and
that of the girl. Sometimes his foot
sloped, and then ho cau-;ht himself so
sharply that the frail ladder went swing
ing wildly, it waa flow work and
,m. ' rr . . . ,, , '.'''El I'awi. who succeeded In getting In
hen i Wa sh iirnt t0 fasten his lid- touch with Chihuahua and obtained the
det to the sills beneath him the strata
of th dead weight on his slioulder could
be seen In his slow and precise move
memo. If that ladder had slipped from
his hand nothing cor. Id have saved him.
Finally he reached the fifth floor and
then, under the curtain of smoke and
water, started swinging slowly. The
ladder reached further and further, like
a pendulum, nnd with a final toss of his
body and arms Walsh threw the girl so
that those on the tenement house roof
could reach her feet, while he still
gripped her hair. And then, very care
fully, but swiftly, she was drawn In and
stretched on the roof,
Tho pendulum began Its slow work
again and, released from much of its
weight, Walsh swurg II so far that the
firemen on the roof could reach out and
grip him at the end of a chain that kept
them from going into the flame and
smoke filled i-ourt beneath, He was
diavvu In and rushed for the gill ho had
saved. He hoisted her to his shoulder
and staggered down through the tene
ment house Into the street and across
to a saloon, where she recovered con
sciousness. '
Walsh's fsce was black, aa was that
of the girl, from tlie smoke they had
gone through, and their clothes were
singed deeply. Walsh got fresh air Into
his lung", ped his eyes and went back
to wont, while the girl went home.
liaraf Kill suddenly.
I The (lro ttottrd, according to Chief
Kenlon, nn the third floor nbout 7
I o'clork, Battalion Chief Helm had Just
I drhcu past the building and Haw no
flames und a few momenta after they
wcie ipoutlng fioni the third nnd fourth
floors nnd climbing rapidly toward the
roof, fin the fifth and sixth floors wrro
the workshops of Goldberg & Kevllz,
pants makers, nnd on the floor above
the Ameileun Laundry Company.
IOiih Kevlta was In hh ohloi paying
thlrty-flve girls and 13r, men when he
smelled smolio and yelled to III i em.
plojrns to forget thjlr money and get
nut, They diunl w.uit to at llrst, but
Kevlta hridud them toward tho stairs
nnd was starting them uown when a
iran on the floor Bbavo shouted:
Come up this way. It's safe this
way."
Several of them bolted from Kevlta
and run up above. Among them waa Ida
Goldberg, 22 years old, of 1IS8 East
Houston street. Another was Annie file
mnvlts, 10 years old, of 141 Knst Ninth
CestlsMed e Fourth Pot-
'NORTHERN MEXICO
READY TO REVOLT
Carrnna Soldiers Dissatisfied;
Bandits Are Stronger, Gen.
Bell Hears.
OHIHTAHUA IN PERIL
Villa Lurking Near By More
Troops Sent to Guard
City.
lilts on specially guaided trains to points
of safety.
Secretary Lansing said that several
hundred refugees from Chihuahua city
had reached the border already, because
of the food shortage. The seriousness
of this problem may result In rush work
on the part of the American Red Cross
to check starvation near the border.
the War Departments Information
concerning the ravages of the Villa ban
dits and the chaotic conditions that pre
vail came In reports forwarded uy Uen.
Fiinstftn
The arrival of some thousands of Car
ranzlsta troops at Chihuahua city had1
temporarily made conditions there motei
secure, but the whole tenor of the ne.vs
Is that these troops may Join tha Chi-
1,1, fill, n r.l.ni, WIU I. ... I ... 1
here In well Informed circles. Is In secret
league with Carrania's enem'es.
Commission Tied TJg.
Admlnlrtratlon officials made no effort
to-night to disguise their opinion that the
American-Mexican commission sitting at
Atlantic City cannot be expected to ar
rive at a satisfactory solution of border
problems until the situation In Chihuahua
nas mm clarified. Any agreement for
,,rjL wlHnrawat of Gen. Pershing s
forces from Mexico apparently Is consld
ered now as out of the question.
Moreover, the Impression stood out
clearly from all the vlewa expressed
that while the present situation exists
there Is little possibility that the forces
of regulars or National Guardsmen on
the bonier will be reduced. It was Indi
cated that no chances would be taken of
unother raid Into American territory.
Coupled with ugly reports which dis
parage the stability of Carrania's regime
and Interpret Ms removal from Mexico
city to Querataro. aa a sign of the break
ing up process which his enemies have
repeatedly predicted, lbs military move
ments of Villa, now making a formidable
campaign In Chihuahua, are regarded
here as menacing the de facto Govern
ment's control of the whole of the north
ern country.
Prominent In the whole situation are
apparently well founded but Indefinite
reports of Ihe connection of so-called
legalists movements with the whole train
of events, which are expected by those
to develop within a short time.
Troops Are Dlesatlsled.
It I, in fact the genersl dissension
which honeycombs northern Mexico snd
extends to Carransa'a own troops there
that forms the most alarming aspect of
the situation to officials at the State De.
partmcnt and at tho War Department.
The Villa raids, without regard to
whether Villa himself la present, are
looked upon here as mere sporadic at
tacks calculated to stir up popular In
dignation Against the de facto Govern
ment. The laat reports Indicate that
they are proving successful. The great
danger, which all have feared. Is the
smouldering d'e.f.enslon from within and
the time now appears ripe for the out.
burst.
The Mexican Kmbassy here Is doing
Its utmost to minimize the Importance
of tho latest alarming news and par
ticular effort Is beln-; made to persuade
thn Stoto Department that It Is not so
serious as represented through American
military channels.
Gen, Punstnn forwarded two des
patch!" fmm lien. Hell, In command lit
following telegraphic statement
"Arrival about 2,ft00 men from the
south has made local conditions more
secure for the present. Additional forces
are expected from tlie south '
"This morning persons who arrived
Inrt night from Chihuahua," Gen. Bell
ruportr, "state that yesterday morning
Gen, Trevlno had a train made up to
take to Juarez the families of nil Gov.
ernmeut officials, Including his own fam
Uy, which arrived last night
Adrlsed Friends to Go,
"Gen. Trevlno confidentially advised
certsln parties to get their families out
of Chihuahua at once, as while he had
plenty of men lie waa short of ammunition-and
thought he would have to evac
uate Chihuahua. A military officer said
in Juarez jesterday evening that If
Villa took Chihuahua Juarez would also
surrender without resistance,"
An earlier despatcli fiom Gen. Bell
stated :
"A prominent official from Chihuahua
city says that one of the commanding
omcers or tne usuna army torn mm the
following story of the battle of Palonaa.
Oen, Ozuna had about 3,000 men and
they had taken nut eleven trains loaded
with provisions, ammunition and troop
bcpldes the cavalry.
"When near Palonas Villa sent ,300
men to Interrupt and gave battle for a
few minutes, then retreating nnd fight
ing as they retreated, while Villa sent
another detachment In behind Osuna's
forces, cut the railroad and telegraph
and also attacked Ozuna'a rear. Osuna
followed the retreating Vllllatas into a
canyon In the foothills and there Villa
attacked,
"As Villa attacked their front S.ilazar
aiiKi'jieii uirir imrnt, wiucn cauaea a
f i .... "
iiiijt4u. .ij ui mum mriw away
ttelr arma as they ran like scared sheep,
tho Vllllstas killing and cjpturlng more
than 1,000 of (hem and also rapturing
nil their trains and provisions. The Car.
rnnzlstas fled to Fresno, whom they
tried again to make a stand, but Villa
drove them Into Chlhu.ihua'nnd had hla
. headauarters only Ave miles outside of
t h hualiua. ra.isengcrs say that Oen.
I llaycotte had arrived with four trains
of troops and that It was reported that
there were fourteen more trains on the
way to Chihuahua which were due to
arrive laat night and to-day."
Department officials said to-nlglit they
bad not neara tne report reaching tha
border that Chihuahua actually had
CenKsued eit Talrd Pag.
2,500 VEHICLES
COUNTED IN
Experts Engaged to Show How Rapidly Congestion Is
Growing, With Idea of. Having Park Avenue
Opened Traffic Policemen Praised.
That old Joke about the country
couple In New York who thought the
regular city traffic was a procession
and waited In a doorway for It to pass.
Is no longer a Joke. It Is fast becom
ing a grim reality. Traffic on somo of
the main thoroughfare now resembles
two endless processions. To the man
In a hurry to get across town It seems
like another preparedness parade. It
seems like a funeral procession to the
automobile owner who Is anxious to get
down to his office In the morning or
home In the evening. It Is a grave prob
lem which la apparent to every one and
which somo of the best minds In the
city are trying to solve.
So serious Is the congestion that the
Fifth Avenue Association, In order to
determine how fast conditions nre grow
Ing worse, sent out fourteen experts with
comptometers. The result shows nn
alarming Increase over the amount of
trafilc In Fifth avenue since the ollce
count of n year ago and over a more
recent count by the association. The
report wns made public yesterday to
emphasize the necessity of opening Park
avenue all the way through, to ilure
the burden with Fifth avenue ami other
arteries almost aa crowded, before the
limit Is reached.
At Fifth avenue and Forty-second
street, which Is still the point of the
greatest congestion of vchteulnr tmflje.
the riwrt shows that during the ten
hours of the business day more than
17.1SI vehicles past, going north nnd
south. The east and west figures will
bring the total up to at least 25.000.
which Is an Increase of more than 1,000
a day over last j car.
During the rush hour, between 3 and
4 o'clock, when women shoppers begin
their homeward flight, more than 2,500
vehicles pass Forty-second street In the
avenue. Aa traffic In the avenue has
to be Interrupted for twenty minutes
of the hour to allow esat and west traffic
to pass, during the forty minute which
CHICAGO "DAILY NEWS"
BOLTS THE PRESIDENT
i
Declares the Safety of Nation'
Cannot Be Wisely En- j
trusted to Him.
Chicago, Oct. II. The Chicago Dallv
feme editorially withdrew Its support
from President Wilson to-day. After
stating that the .Yeict had urged the
selection of Mr. Wilson before the Demo.
craatlc convention four years ago and
had also actively supported him In the
campaign, the .Vrtc saya:
"Mr WlWion Is a scholarly egotlt who
measures all things by personal stand
arda which are subject to no modifica
tions other than tho.a resulting from
his confirmed policy of opportunism.
" 'Do the easiest thing and make a
vlrtuoof It,' might be the accepted motto
ol this eminently plausible President.
Having no real advisers and no Cabinet
except In namtv this was made clear
by the resignation of Secretary Gar
rison he haa felt free to follow hla own
Inclinations at all times.
"It waa In hla method of dealing with
the strike threat of the railroad brother
hoods that Prealdent Wilson most clearly
disclosed his policy of government. That
perilous policy of following the line of
least resistance la shown here In Its per
fection. "The President employed an easy
method of projecting a present diffi
culty Into the future and of ga'lnlng
profitable friendships for himself while
sowing a crop of dragons' teeth for his
country, whose Interests he was set to
guard. This appalling display of un
scrupulousness illuminated like a search
light the character and thought processes
of the chief magistrate of the nation.
The American people should take warn
ing from the painful exposure.
"In the opinion of tho Unity Stxct
the safety of the nation and the In
terglty of Its Institutions cannot wisely
bo entrusted to President Wilson for an
other term."
HARBOR "B" IN FLOATING HOME. !
Poller Who Fight UHer Plrntra '
Abandon Land. j
The policeman of Harbor II. whose
business la fighting river pirates, I
have built themselves a now floating
station house which waa launched yea-1
terday with due ceremony. It will be
moored oft Randall's Island. Police ,
Commissioner Woods, who attended the
launching, complimented the sailor police
on their wotk. ,
The station house, containing a desk
room, a sitting room and a bunk house,
has been erected on a barge. An old
bouse valued at 1300.000 which was oc
cupied by Harbor B has been turned
back to the city. The uew station.
Commissioner Woods said, cost Just 9100
for material.
BATTERY B COMES HOME.
Klrst New York Artillerymen Ai
rive From McAlleii.
flattery D, First New Yoik Field Ar
tlllery, under command of Capt. Walter1
C. McClure. arrived here last night from '
McAllen, Tex., where the regiment has 1
been on border duty since tho National ,
Guard was ordered out,
The remaining batteries of the regl-,
ment, which Is In commnnd of Col, II, II, '
Itogers, are expected to return to their
home stntlons within the next ten days. 1
SHACKLETON REACHES PANAMA.
On Ills Way to Neir Zsaland tn
Ilea Relief Party.
Panama, Oct. 25. Mir llrncst Shackle,
ton, Antarctic explorer, arrlvtd hero to
day, He Is on his way tn Nnw Zealand
to head nnother relief expedition lo suvm
the men of his party who nre marooned
on the shores of Hnss t'en,
Shnckleton Is undecided whether to go
to Han Francisco for a vessel going to
Australia or to wait tiers for a steam
shift which will sail November 10,
nsfnevs htkrimikd dbapr .iitick.
to and nourishing for children Invalids.
Ill Fulton at., N. T, Pheae till Cort.
AN HOUR
FIFTH AVENUE
remain there arc sixty vehicles a minute
or one for each second.
The handling of such an unprecedented
traffic problem by the police, according
to the report of the Fifth Avenue Asso
ciation, deserves the highest commenda
tion. The count wns made on October 18, the
Idea b'elng to determine exactly how tho
ehlrular traffic during the tan hours of
the IiiihIiiccs day Is progressing In the
stretch of fourteen blocks In Fifth ave
nue between Thirty-fourth nnd Forty
eighth streets, and to compare It with
traffic In Park n venue above nnd below
the Grand Central Terminal.
The Fifth Avenue Association, for
patent teasons, Is Interested In the
earliest porslblc completion of the pro
IKiwd und approved plan of bridging
Pot ly-secoml street at the Grand Central
Terminal with a viaduct, which, will open
Park avenue ns a tpaln artery of north
and no nth traffic.
The report idnts out that Park avenue
Is already used as much ns possible by
through traffic, but bocauso Park avenue
Is not open through Forty-second street
now all tho traffic must be diverted to
one of the adjoining uvenues, nnd Fifth
nvenue gcta tho larger part of It. This
Is Indicated by tho fact that bolween
Forty-eighth and Forty-second streets
there Is an increase of about 2,100 ve
hicles going south und of about 2,400 go.
Ing north, and the same Is true of the
nvenue around Thirty-fourth street. Prac.
tlrally all of this Increase would be re
moved by the opening of Pnrk avenue. It
Is said.
The advantage of using Park avenue,
according to the report. Is Indicated by
the fart that only 2 per cent, of the
vehicles In Fifth avenue nre the more
practical commercial vehicle. 'while the
percentage In Park svenua Is about 30.
The report draws the conclusion Uiat
where speed Is the principal consldeia
tlon and not show, Park avenue has the
advantage, even under preient condi
tions. The viaduct plan of opening Park ave
nue by bridging Forty-second street was
drawn nnd approved about four years
ago, and It Is reported that work will
shortly begin on thn project.
KAISER EXHORTS HIS
ARMIES ON THE SOMME
Tells Troops God Will Bless
Them for Strength and
Courage,
nzst.m (via London), Oct. 21. Em
peror William on his recent visit to the
troops on the Somme front made the
following speech, according to the cor
repondent of the Tagettatt:
"Comrados. following an impulse of
the lu-ai t. I have hurried to you from
the east front to bring you the greet
ings of your comrale, there and the
thanks of the fatherland for the four
months hard struggles on the Somme
and for the lierolo manner In which vou
have fought. The world's history knows
in. i'.wmin ior m- struggles in which
you arc participating and for the great
lies of our deeds. For centuries these
battles of the Somme w'H stand as a
blazing model for tha rnnniwrin. .m t
a united people.
"In you that German -vs. Ill llnds ex
pression under whatever circumstance
to prevent the enimy from prostrating
u to tho ground nnd to stand Arm
against French Insolence and Hrlflsh
stubbornness. From all German regions
you stand llko a metal wall of German
sense of duty and n If. devoted valor,
lighting to the laat breath.
"On nil sbfes the German people
stand In a tenacious struggle against
half the world and against the manifold
superiority of numbers. Even though
It continues hard to endure long, yet
the Lord of Ho-ts is with vou. Th(e
at home have .besought Illm snd He
has Inspired you with strength ami
courage. Trust In God bravely feeling
that ou are righting In a Just cause.
"Thus I greet you. comrades. Hold
out. The Lord will give Ills blessing
to the end,"
PRICE OF WHEAT SLUMPS.
I'.iirope Stops Hnylnu Wler NMr
tllnai Illse to 1.SI.
I'lllCinO. fVl. ?R W:lf ,nr,t
succeeded, temporarily at least, to-day'
In accomplishing what all the embargo'
agitation In the United Htatei h.r.
toforo failed" to effect the stoppage of
the wild wheat price advance which has
been In progress, virtually unchecked,
for nearly four months.
Sudden withdrawal of British Govern
ment purchasing agenji was announced
when thewheat market advancetooktrad
era" breath away by vaultinr tn ti e
bOshel, one cent above the high prlco1
record of the Joe Letter "corner" In 1891, '
Then almost simultaneously the bullish
speculators got word that foreigners
were reselling their holdings both for lm.
mediate and future dellvi ry.
Quotations came crashing down, and'
at no time during the remainder of the
trading was there any lasting rally. The
close was unmistakably weak at net'
gains of only ; to Sc.. with December
delivery at fl.SO to $ I.R0 W and May'
1.80; to 11.801,1, ' ,
FURNACE COAL OAS KILLS TWO.
Ilrnah Merchant and Mother Vic
tims Pulmotnr Saves Ills Wife.
Iwls Moron er, Bit years old, a brush
manufacturer, and his eighty-nine-yenr-old
mother, Mrs, Christine Hprower
Ulllont, were killed esterday bv coal
gas In their hnnie at I.ognn street,
Hast New York. Hprower's wife, Annie,
45 years old, was overcome an she slept,
but Drs, Madden and Johnson revived
ler with a' pulmotor, She in in St.
Mary's Hospital, and will recover.
Dr. Freeman, who attended Mrs. DM
lont Tuesday, night, called again yester
day morning and waa unable tn get In.
I In summoned Hprower's sons, John and
Fiedcrlck, from their father's factory.
All three enteied the house and found It
filled with coal gas from the furnace
and thn three occupants overcome.
American .Ship Ashore In Danger.
Baiiia, Ilraill. T)ot. 20. The Amer
ican schooner Cora F. Crcssy, nshore
near here, Is leaking badly and In dan
ger. The keel Is twisted and tha cargo
damaged. The Cressy left New York on
August 26 for Ala Janeiro and Babla
Bis-as
DESTROYERS' TASK
TOLD" BY KIPLING
Perils of the Smaller Craft in
North Sea Battles Vividly
Portrayed.
nOY DKSOniBES ACTION
No Time to Think of Being
Afraid, He Says, as Bis?
Shells Arc Dropping.
fl)fltil Cable 'itifW to Til Srv.
Cnpprlght, 1H, l,y Itndvnrd Kiptino t" V. S, A
Br in nvAitn kipm.ng.
The third of four articles to be
published In "Ths sun."')
DKHTTtOYKHS AT JUTLAND.
Tlir dnoyi'crpcrt nf Zton,
Thru do not aUrays stand
In helmet and ivhulr armour
With halhvrd In Ihrtr hand.
Hut bring rrr of Zlon
And all Mr mjyifrnc.t,
The rent a while In Zton,
Sit down and smllr In Zton,
Ave. even ai In Hon,
In Zlon at their caie,
Thn aatekeepen of Baal,
Thrv dare not alt or lean.
Hut fume and fret and posfute
,liu foam and curse fcrftrrcn
For being bound to Baal,
It'hose sacrifice it vain.
Their rest it scant nAth Baal;
Thru glare and pant Jr Baal;
Thry mouth and rant for Baal
For Baal in 'their pain.
But ice u-III go to Zlon
By choice and not through dread,
With these our present comrades
And those our present drad.
And being fret of Zton,
In both her fellowships,
Sit down and sup In Zton,
Stand vp and drink in Zlon,
Whatever cup in Zlon
Is offered to our lips.
As one digs deeper into the records
one sees various tcmparsmonts of men
revenllng themselves through all the
formal wording. One commander may
be nn expert In torpedo work, whose
first care Is how and where his shots
went and whether under all the cir
cumstances of pace, light and angle
the best had been achieved. Destroy
ers do not carry unlimited stocks of
torpedoes, and It rests with the com
manders whether they shall spend
with a free hand at first or save for
the night work ahead risk a possi
bility while he Is yet afloat, or hang
on coldly for a certainty. 8o In tho
old whaling days did a hnrpyoncr
bring up or back off his boat till gomo
shift of the fish's bulk gavo him a
sure opening at the deep Rented life.
And then comes the question of pri
vate Judgment "I thought so arid so
would happen; therefore I did thus
nnd thus." Things may or may not
turn out ns anticipated, but that Is
merely another of n million chances
of the sea.
Cites Css In Point.
Take a case In point a flotilla of
our destroyers elghtcd six there had
been eight the previous afternoon Her
man battleships of kingly and Imrcrlal
caste, very early In the morning of Juno
1, and duly attacked them, At first
our iieople ran parallel to the enemy,
then, so far as one can maue out, headed
them and swept around sharp to their (
left, firing torpedoes from their port or j
left hand tubes, lletwean Uiein they I
hit a battleship, which went up In flames
and debris
Hut one of the flotilla had not turned
with t'le rest. Hho had anticipated that
an attack would bo mode on another
iiunrter. and for certain technical rea
sons she waa not ready. When she was
she turned nnd, single bended, tho rest
01 me UOIUia naving nni-neu hihi guno
on, carried out two attacks on the live
remaining battleships. Phe got one of
them amidships, causing a terrllle ox
plosion and flame above the masthead,
which signified that the magazine bad
been touched off. She counted the bkt
tleshlps when the smoke had cleared, and
there were but four of them. Hhe her
self was not hit, though the shots fell
close. She went her way and, seeing
nothing of her sisters, picked up another
flotilla and stnyed with It till the end.
Do I make clear the mazo of blind
hazards snd wary judgment In which
our men of the sea must move?
One lilt by shell.
Some of the original flotilla wore
chased and headed about by cruisers
after their attack on the six battleships,
and a single shell from a battleship or
cruiser reduced one of them to such a
condition that she wns brought home by
her sub-lleutensnt and a midshipman.
Her Captain? First Lieutenant, gunner,
torpedo coxswain nnd both signalmen
were either killed or wounded. The
bridge, with the charts, Instruments and
signalling gear, was destroyed. All the
torpedoes were expended, a gun was put
out of action and the usual cordite fires
developed.
Luckily the engines were workable
and she escaped under cover of a smoke
screen, which is an almost unbearably
filthy outpouring of the densest smoke
l.v in.riialnv tit nrann.,lnn ne ..n
to air In tho furnaco feed. It rolls I
forth from the funnels looking solid
enough to sit upon, spreads in trurch
llghtproof clouds of Impenetrable beast
linen und In still weather hangs for
hours. Ilut It saved that boat
It Is curious to note tho subdued tone
of a boy's report when by some acci
dent of slaughter !, Is raised to urni
mand, Thero are certain formalities
which every ship must comply with mi
entering certain ports. No fully striped
romnmnder would trouble lo detail them
any mora than lie would the aspect of
his club porter, The young 'un puts It
all down; "I rang Ihe bell, wiped my feel
on the mat and asked If they were at
homo." lie Is most careful of port
proprieties, nnd since he will be a null
again to-morrow, and nil his equals will
tell htm exactly how lis ought to have
handled her, he almost apologlsex for
the attps he took,
No dashing Over Deeds,
Deeds which ashore might bo called
cool or daring the Senior Servlca does
not gush over. There are certain for.
mulas appropriate to every occasion.
One sf oar boata who waa knocked
Coafinued on Second Pays.
FORT VAUX AIM OF
NEWYERDUNDRIYE
FrciH'h Begin Encircling Move
ment in Hope of Capturing
Garrison.
COrXTKK ATTACKS FAIL
Crown Prince Hurls His Men in
Futile Dashes to Regain
Lost Ground.
Pahis, Oc(. 25, All the ground the
French snntched from the Germans yes
terday at Verdun la held. Hurling back
three counter attacks of the Crown
Prince's troops, Oen. Nlvelle'a troops
began to-day an encircling movement on
Vaux fort, the only one of the outer
forts of thn Verdun ring still In the
hands nf tho Invaders.
"Kast of Fumln wood and north of
I.o Chenols wc continued to make prog,
ress during the day," says the War Of
fice statement Issued to-night.
An advance east of Fumln wood
means that the French arc striving to
cut off the retreat of the Vaux fort gar
rlson. Thus far 4,800 unwounded pris
oners have been counted. The com
mander of Fort Do'jaumont was cap
tured In a dugout within the fort.
Crown Prince Defeated.
The Crown Prlnce'ii counter attacks
to-day were hurled at every portion of
the ground taken from him, and every
where they met with complete failure.
The first attack was delivered last eve
nlng against the HauUromont quarry.,
That fulled. At r. n'ln..', thl
an attack was made against the Dim
loup battery. It too failed.
During the rest of the mornlne thn
Crown Prince and his generals waited '
for detailed reports of the conditions'
niong tne whole new French front. Then
three successive attacks were mode with
the same persistence and the same stub
born disregard of losses that have made
the cost of the Verdun fighting so tre
mendous. They came toward Haudro.
mont and Dounumont, In the centre of
the niw positions.
"None sucireded, nnd our front was
maintained Intact," snys the French War
Ofllco statement.
All that the Herman War Office has
to say la that "on the northeastern front
at Verdun, a French attack as far ns
Fort Douaumont. which Is in flnmes,
gained ground. The fighting Is contlnu
Ing." All I'yes on Verdan Now.
The Somme battle hsa reaaed for the
moment because of bad weather, and
every eye Is fixed on Verdun. It la be
lleved that flie successful French at
tack will not onlv stop the projected
Herman .effort on the Hommo, but help
ItumnnU mid Itussln by preventing the
transfer of Herman troops In numbers
to those fronts.
Apparently the French rush took the
Hermans completely by surprise, oherv.
era here say It Is even said that the
sucress of tlie attack took the French
themselves by surprise. In three hours
thoy recaptured ground that required
months of patient effort by the Crown
Prince to capture,
The general French nt'.ick was mide
by four columns of division each. Th
nrst column carried Thlaumont Work
and farm and the Hnudroiiiont quarries,
all the objectives, advancing atoiit n
mile. The second colu-mi, colonial
troops under Hen. Mnngln, took Its ob
jectives, mil 528 and the edgo of th
Cnlllette wood, and sent back word Hint
It could go further. It did go further
and the colonial troops had the honor
of retaking Dou.iuinont Fort, which they
onre before captured In -May when the
battle was at Its height.
The trirriioon llcnorf.
This afternoon's French statement
a s ;
Ninth of Verdun the Germans de
livered two counter attacks ngalnst
tho wings on our new front. One at
tack yesterday "venlnn, directed
against the llniidroinont quarrv, was
repulsed. The oilier, delivered nt 5
o'clock thli morning ngalnt the Dam
loup battery, slinilm-ly fald. All th
ground conquered has been maintained
In lt entirety
The clearing out of Fort Douaumont
was completed during the night. Tlie
commander of the fort, who w.is In u
dugout, was taken prisoner
Thn llrltlsh statement on the Somme
front says
H.iln fell again during the greater
part of the day. South of tlm .nrre
the enemy's uitlllery was active, etpe
clally In the neighborhood of I,e Sars
and Baueourt I'Abluye.
Tho Herman statement on the Somme
battle says:
Army Hrotip of Crown Prince nup
precht Ilecauso of rainy weather ves
terday fighting activity In the Somme
sector diminished There was a tern
porary Increase, however. In tho ar
tlllery lire. During the evening hours
partial attacks by t.:o French from the
l.efb(rufs-Rain-ourt line broke down
with losses before our entanglements,
ending without success.
GERMAN WARSHIP WRECKED.
I.arare )nMnttlr of Debris Washed
I'p on Danish Island.
Copenhagen, via London. Oct 2
Large quantltlei of wreckage were
washed up on U valuta Island, near Co
penlingen, Wednesday.
According to the Kiktrtibltiilct an
Investigation showed that the wreckage
wns from n Herman warship. It. In
eluded huge sections of the ufterpart of
the ship.
VICAR HAS LOST FOUR SONS.
Dill- Wns Corporal, One SerKennl,
One l.leuteliii nt, Dm. ('mitiilii.
Sprclal t'.lbl, to TllR Srv rani oxrfiln
Time.
I.ONIKI.V, t)ct. '.'f. 'Die Itev. C. II.
James, vicar of I.micashlic, has lost four
sons In the war. His third son, a
sergeant, who was In years old, has
fallen In the Homme fighting. Ilrfore the
war ho was a lawyer.
His eldest brother, Corporal James
lames, watf killed In September, 1'JtS.
He was 31 years old Ten. days earlier
Capt, JnmeH died of wounds iccelved nt
Ualllpoll, and I.leut Heorgc Juuies, the
youngest, was killed at tha Dardanelles.
He was 22, years old.
flHEVT BEAR HfRINO WATIIB.
Itc. ths case of six f Ism sloppersd botttsi.
AUv.
ROMANIAN ARMY
TRAPPED IN THE
DANUBE SWAMP
Hope of Kscape From J)o
brudja Ended by Fall
of Cernavodn.
TKUTON PRESSURE
IN WEST STRONGER
Falkcnlia.vn's Troops Get
Vulcan Pass and Pour
Into Rumania.
7,000 PRISONERS
TAKEN BY BULGARS
Sofia Official Report De
clares Teuton Victory
Was Complete.
I-o.vdon. Oct. 25. Cernavodn, the
eastern entrance to tho llumniilan plain
and to lluchnrest. fell this morning to
Von Mackenscn's army sweeping through
the Dobrudja. Tha Jtusslnn nnd ltu
tnanian armies, driven still further north,
are In danger of being trapped between
the Teuton army and the loop of ths
Danube and annihilated or forced to
surrender.
Vulcan Pass, In tho Tlansylvanla
Alps, has been stormed by Von Fnlken
hayn's army hammering at Kuinanla's
northern frontier. Ills troops hnvo
pushed nearer the railhead of Klinpo
Inng. In Kuinaiiiii. only tcvcnty-rlvn
miles northwest of nuch.irest. Austrian
troops on Jlumania's wu.-lern frontier
have stormed a strong mountain height,
killing or capturing all the garnsnn.
Teuton Adtnurr Irresistible.
Trom enM, north and west the Teuton
ring la pressing more tightly around the
heart of Itumnnla. ftravo resistance is
being made, but tho Teuton Advance
seems only lo be delayed, never really
stopped. in tn(. nitos and Tsui valleys,
on thn western ttiimanlan front, a ilus.
slan counter offensive had on,o success
to-day and 2TH prisoner welo taken.
South t f Ited Tower Pass lh Itiimaiihins
had unother si ght sue, ess. but iinthliu
can overbalance the crushing defeat in
tlie Dobrudja or the 'oss of Vulcnti f'nes.
Cern.noda was a most valuable prize.
beeiue It is the :iteni cm! of a great,
bridge eleven miles u.it tiiat s- us ilie
D.iiiule and lt mirj.ies mil ct.dj. rn tlie
Huni.inlan plain eighty. live miles from
lluchnrest The Danube U nliut l.diio
yards wide. Tho lapturo of the town
ciniplctt-d the Teuton cntiol of the rail
road from Cniistinrn It lr not jet
known whether or not the lOwo-l'tn-mnnlan
forces dvstioyed the br dge In
thel' tetrejt.
An aspct of the xitu.ilioii favorable
to Von Maiketu-en's plan Is t.,m tho
armies of Znlchirhkovsky -it ,1 . useu
apparently did not make u.miI il,, r es.
cape iieross the hnilg. . 'n . armies,
or at ent coii.-tder.ililc pert' of them,
are s.ill fn ili liol.rudj-. ami in illglu,
access to Ihe onlv hrldno across the
Danube cut off. Tiny havr been forced
out of position at Taeliiuil I.aUi twelve
miles north of Cotn-ianza near tho
Wink Sea cont. Pell igrul adin Is
Annies Hemmed In,
South of them Is thn v'etorl ,-is Te item
army, pushing them bard nnd giving
them no ret. jan 'f tin m ! the III irk
S" North rod wet i- ru Danube,
with marshy shores crocd by im
btldgis.
To-day's ilerimm sia .rr. n! 'initiates
Hi it the plan i to crush tin--. fi,.cs he
fore trying to n-ns the i uinvoda
Mndge and invade In for. e Their pin -Milt
I being emitinind "n planned,"
s.l t!ie rtati ment
The completeness nf tlm Teuton vie
tory Is shown by n Hiilgail.in Matniient
nf jntcrdny which snys thit ilio total
number of prisoner taken slue, von
Macl.enscn's sweep begnn, nst Thurs
day, were seventy-llvo nillcrr and 6,653
men
When MedJIdle, m!dolnt of thn Con.
Ftanza-Cernnvoda P.allr-.'iil, was talen
the Hulgnrs captured tln locomotives
and 200 railway cars, four guns, thirty
niaihlne guns and three bomb thrower",
The Ilulgar statement sajs.
ilur cavalry near islam Tepo at
tacked a Rumanian brigade, and neir
tlm village of Tzara Mur.it dlfpursed
Rumanian ten ilonal battalion No
276, capturing the rnnimindar of the
brlgnde and a flag and the coni
mnnder of n lii.Mhn bilirubin and
S00 men,
rirriiinna Kiitlinslnstle.
Herman military ruithorltles nre en
thuslmtlc at the suocesr-cs of the two
greit Herman lea tints Von.M irkensen and
Von Falkeiihnvti. says a Ilcil.n despatch
The capture of (Vrnavoda, they say, de
notes, with Turtukal und SI' Mrhi. long
since taken, the iemov.il of the artificial
barrier to :uve imIo Itumanwi acro
ono natural foitulcatlon, the Dumbe
Von Falkenlhi) n's capture of I'rede.'il
nnd the Vulein 1'iss surmounts anoihrr
natural bonier, the Trnnslvanhi Alps
To-day's Herman statement follows:
Xorih nf Klnipotung (Ilumanl"ti
town eUliiy-flve riv'ei from llnehnr.
est), our nttaclt pr'nrrssfd Vulcan
l'as.i was tnKeti bv storm by Her
man and Aiistro-IInriMailMi troops
In the Dobrudja. Field Maishal von
Mnckeneeu's army gnnta ' contin
uing the pursuit of the fueniv, ns
planned. iVriinvod.'i w.ii r.ipluml
thl morning. No ibiaii ,u, yr
known, Uy this the ltiini.it iau and
Kiisiinn toices operating In thn
D'dirudja have been deprived nf their
last railroad eommiiiuriition ami an
exceedingly linpoi taut miwk bus
been gained,
The Hnsnlan statement siv'
Dobrudja. Hneinv attacks eonlinuo
nlong the whole from out- troops
and Ihe Hiimani'n, lighting ns they
i cured tn the north, were compelled
to abandon their position from Cenu
voda. Rumanian front; On the northeast'
