Established By Wm. Need, 1870.
VOLUME XLVI.
LICENSED RUIN.
Editorial From Middletown
Valley Register.
I noticed the other day an article
signed by a minister who advocates
licensed saloons. One just now need
not he surprised at any arguments
put forth by the rum power to defeat
the doom that is near at hand. The
licensed saloon is one of the greatest
menaces to the welfare of the country.
It pays to deal out destruction and
death and to a certain extent, is pro
tected by law. It can never be made
respectable by law or license, no mat
ter what restrictions are thrown
around it. A minister of the gospel
who will openly uphold the saloon
must have lost much of his self-re
spect to say nothing of his religion.
He sets an example to his congrega
tion that is unsafe, unholy and de
cidedly bad. The utter uselessness of
the saloon needs no illustration. Its
influence has ever been a curse to the
nation and will continue so long as
its doors are permitted to swing open
to the victims it creates.
There are 968 licensed saloons in
Cincinnati. The amount of ruin and
death these hell-traps annually fur
nish, cannot be calculated. Figures
are inadequate. It is not the money
that is spent over the bar so much as
it is the suffering entailed by the
vices that belong to the grogshop.
The broken hearts, the blighted
homes, the ruined boys and girls tell
the story beyond description. The
ruin of one boy, and thousands are
ruined every day, brings home to the
people the work of the saloon. Every
dollar paid the State for saloon
licenses is blood money. It is wet
with the tears of mothers all over the
land, and year by year the cemeteries
are filling up with the best young
characters, who but for the licensed
saloon, would be a credit to the
nation.
West Virginia reports that crime
has decreased since the State went
dry. The weis say “bootlegging”
has increased in the State. If it has,
it is because the authorities are not
doing their duty. The people must
elect oflicers who will enforce the
laws. It can be done. There is no
law that cannot be enforced. The
saloonists know that prohibition will
put them out of business and that is
why they are now making the fight
of their lives to continue the traffic
in human lives. If the law-abiding,
Christian people of Frederick coun
ty want the boy to become a man
of whom they may be proud, they
must vote out the saloon. They will
soon have the opportunity and must
not sleep at the post of duty. If
they want the saloon with all its at
tendant evils, they can vote for it
and then blame themselves for the
effect. There is no middle ground.
It is the bottle or the boy.
When the last saloon door is closed,
the country will take new steps in
progress, the flag will look more beau
tiful than ever and the atmosphere
will be purer. Wherever real prohi
bition has been enforced, it has prov
ed a great success. The saloon is a
tempter that is always for evil, It
has within it not a scintilla of good
ness. Its existence is a curse that
blights and destroys like a cyclone,
sweeping to death everything in its
unholy path. If one good thing could
be said of the grogshop, it would have
been said long ago. Its trail is like
the serpent’s, slimy and noxious.
Let the people of Frederick coun
ty go into the battle before them,
determined to win, for they can win
if united.
The question is so plain that he
who nips can read. There is butane
issue. It is "the bottle or the boy.”
The result should not be for a mo
ment doubtful.
HARBAUGH.
The catoctin clarion.
VOTE FOR PROMOTION.
HE SAYS THE SAME THING TODAY.
I
SALOON PROSPERITY.
C PRISONERS from Frederick City and the Fair Ground
** were received at our County Jail last week in a
DRUIVKEItf COIVDITIOST.
The TAXPAYERS OF THURMONT as well as the rest of the county will pay their
Board while there.
A person on the Square Corner in Frederick on last Thursday counted 78 drunks from
4.30 P. M. to 5 P. M.
Another person on South Market Street on Friday of last week counted 18 drunks in
18 minutes.
The “Wets” tell us that the presence of saloons in a community insures soberness; that
where saloons are handy a person will take ONE drink and be satisfied.
How the above named persons and others got drunk in the
“well regulated’’ saloons in Frederick has not been discovered.
WANTED! 10,000 Men in Frederick County who will say
NOT BY MY VOTE
“Saloons may go on like the brook forever; Men may die in them like flies and hell grow fat on
drunks; Girls may be betrayed and boys baited hellward; Truth may be wrecked and character
dismantled; Homes may be destroyed and women and children made beggars,’’
BUT NOT BY MY VOTE.
VOTER, will you enlist in this army of 10,000 men to vote Frederick County DRY?
For Prohibition X
THURMONT, FREDERICK COUNTY, MD.,- THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1916.
A Family Newspaper—lndependent in Politics—Devoted to Literature, Local and General News.
•LIBERIT
The Declaration of Independence declares that all men are en
dowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among
these are Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness. No sane, in
telligent person will presume to deny this declaration. There is,
however, one business which does not stand by these rights, and that
Business is the Liquor Business, in whatever form it may appear.
They who present the business may claim much, and are ever ready
to claim much, but their practice is against their claim every time.
Last summer a select number of Chicago physicians were com
missioned to investigate the causes of a larger number of prostrations
from heat. The result of their investigation shows that out of 155
prostrations treated in the county hospital, ninety-eight per cent,
were directly traceable to the use of alcoholic stimulants. Forty-four
per cent, of these prostrations proved fatal.
In a report on 2,000,000 cases, issued by the American and Can
adian life insurance companies, and covering an investigation during
the last twenty-five years, the conclusion is reached that constant
users of alcohol shorten their lives by six years on an average.
Carefully collected statistics in the United States show that
every year between 00,000 and 70,000 persons die from the effect of
alcohol. The waste of human life representing one death every eight
minutes, or 8 per cent, of the total mortality of the nation. There is
absolutely no question as to where the liquor business stands in rela
tion to life. It cannot guarantee life, but it shortens it and destroys it.
And what of Liberty? The underlying principle of liberty is that
no one enjoying it and exercising it, either introduces into his own
life or into the life of another that which in any way interfere with
personal or community welfare. Those who are engaged in the liquor
business have been at it for so long a time, have enjoyed protection
of the State, have done so many things, either with legal sanction
or without, that they presume upon the business in which they are
engaged as being their liberty. When as a matter of fact they ex*
ercise their power and not their liberty, for liberty is not something
that belongs to a person by law, but it is his by endowment. As a
matter of fact, the liquor business takes away the liberty and right
on the part of the customers to enjoy the benefits of their hard-earn
ed money. What of the liberty of the drunks that are continually
made and then kicked out of the saloons? What of the liberty of
the taxpayer who has to provide the expense involved by arrest and
prosecution and lodging and board of the unfortunate drunk? The
liquor business does not know anything about liberty since its great
concern is to get gain in whatever way possible. It is after the money
and to secure money will stoop to the lowest and meanest ways, and
then tries to delude the poor unfortunates by telling them about
safeguarding their liberties, when their liberties arc already taken
away from them by the miserable curse of alcohol.
Pursuit of happiness guaranteed! This is just what the liquor
business does not do, and cannot do. Its very character makes such
an end impossible. What of the pursuit of happiness of the lad who
recently fell into the Canal at Point of Rocks? What of the pursuit
of happiness for the mother who sought to rescue her son? Both are
dead and buried because of liquor. What of the father and husband?
Where was he at the time of these deaths? And what put him whore
he was? Surely not one of these was in pursuit of happiness.
What of the pursuit of happiness of the drunks who last Saturday
night were kicked out of a certain saloon in Frederick? What of the
liberty of a certain business man who because of these drunks enter
ing his place of business was compelled to put them out? No, a thou
sand times no! The liquor business never has made for happiness,
nor can it secure happiness. Any claim that it cares for life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness is without foundation. It is presump
tuous.
THE LIQUOR BUSINESS IS INHERENTLY WRONG,
AND UNSPEAKABLY VICIOUS IN PRACTICE. VOTE FOR
PROHIBITION, AND GUARANTEE LIFE, LIBERTY AND
PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS TO ALL THE PEOPLE.
GEORGE ALBERT SNYDER.
Chairman Executive Committee.
CARROLL COUNTY DRY.
THE BANKS TELL THE STORY,
The total amount of deposits in 19 Banks of
Carroll County at the time of the recent
September statement was $9,400;499.15
The total amount of deposits on May 1, 1915,
the beginning of the dry period, was 8,240,821.99
A gain since the saloons were closed of $1,159,677.16
THERE IS NO BETTER INDEX TO THE CONDITION OF
COMMUNITY THAN ITS BANK DEPOSITS.
THIS RECORD SHOWS
A Period of Unexampled Prosperity
IN CARROLL COUNTY.
Every Bank in the County Shows a Substantial Gain.
This is the more remarkable when it is remembered that Thou
sands upon Thousands of Dollars have been spent for
Automobiles, and money has been sent to Mail-
Order Houses as never before.
Terms (1.00 in Advance
NO. 33.
