V
I!ES1 DENT'S OFFICE
I1EIIEA COLLEGE
I3EI1EA KY
t:nMi
The citizen,
Devoted to tlie Interests of tlie aorLntQlxi Poople
C2R.EA PUBLISHING CO.
(IHCOroRTED
WM. a ntOiT. MwhCMW
C H. wuTCNarncu. M.t um
r. O. BOWMAN, AiHM Mmw
Knowledge Is power end the
way to keep up with modern
knowledge it to read a good
newspaper.
Vol. XVIIL
Five Cent a Copy.
BEREA, MADISON COUNTY. KENTUCKY, OCTOBER it, 1MB.
One Dollar a Year
No. 17.
' Republican Meeting
Hon. Brutus CUy, Saturday, at 2 p. m. in Vocational
Chapel and at 7 p. m. in Main Chapel
Clay in one of the greatest names in Kentucky, and
Brutus Clay of our own county is a noble representative
of the line. He has been the U. S: Minister to Switzer
land, and is a speaker who always delights and instructs.
The people of Uerea wish to know about the issues of the
present campaign and every voter should be on hand
next Saturday.
" The Unspeakable Turk "
The reat Sherman .said, " War is hell." Yet even
war has been glorified by principles of honor, respect
for the weak, and the scorn of mean advantages.
No such glimmerings of honor, or even "enlight
ened selfishness" seem to affect the Turk. He has been
butchering the Armenian men in his own armies, mur
dering the helpless and harmless women, and seemingly
enjoying the exercise of cruelty as other men, enjoy eat
ing or doing good.
What is it, what can it be, in the heart of a man that
delights in evil ?
We have Turks in America. The man who cheats
in a bargain is a small Turk. The man that betrays a
woman is a Turk. The man that exults in any meanness
of which he should be ashamed is a Turk.
Can the Turks be converted ? If they are not to be
converted they ought to be hanged.
President Wilson asks us to pray for the Armenians,
and send money to feed the women whom the Turks are
keeping in pens to 1 butchered a little later on. And
we are sending some money, but we had rather send
some missionaries or some battle ships to bombard the
Turks. If God answers our prayers for the Armenians
he will have to do something to the Turks.
Twenty-Fifth AriVtual Convention .
of
TRI-STATE UNION
of
CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR
BUR EA, KENTUCKY
October 27, 28, 29, 1916
PROGRAM
FRIDAY NIGHT
7:00 Who are you?
7:45 Devotional Exercises
Welcome
Glenn C. Phelps, President Union C. E. Society.
Joseph Wilson. President Christian C. E. Society.
8:00 Address, Rev. Wm. Dagar, Elat, Africa.
Business
SATURDAY MORNING
Sunrise Prayer Service, President' House, South Porch.
Visiting College Buildings
College Chapel
Convention Session, Parish House
Devotional Exercises, Rev. C S. Knight, Berea. Ky.
Reports, Business, Elections
Conference Hour, C. N. Shutt. Berea, Ky.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON
1 JO Delegates Excursion
SATURDAY NIGHT. Christian Church
7:00 Devotional Exercises, Dr. J. R. Robertson. Berea College
7:15 Address, Dr. James Watt Raine, Berea College ,
8.15 Reception
SUNDAY MORNING
9:45 Sunday School in the Various Churches
11:00 Church Services
SUNDAY AFTERNOON. Parish House
2 JO Devotional Exercises
Institute Hour
What Can I Tell?
What Can I Learn?
Open Air Meeting, The Point, Dr. B. H. Roberts
SUNDAY NIGHT. Main Chapel Auditorium
6 15 Model Christian Endeavor Meeting
Selections by College Orchestra
United Chapel Service, Opening Exercises
College Quartette
Address, President Wm. G. Frost, Beret College
Installation of Union Officers.
6:00
800
:20
10:15
11 15
2:45
4:00
7:15
7.30
7:45
CONTENTS
PACK t. Editorials: Hepublicun
Meeting; Unspeakable Turk.
C K. Program. Our, Own State
News-United State News.
World News..
PAQI a. IVpartmenlal Columns.
PAGE . Serial: "Thou I'll Come
Back ' to You. Col. Roosevelt's
Speech at Louisville
PAGE 4 Locale.
PAGE i. Local Newt Article.
PAGE t- 1 Buecessful Agricultural
and School Fairs. Clover Bot
tom School Fair. Cincinnati
Markets. Scientific Farming.
Home Department: The Rural
School Term. How I
PAGET. International Sun
day School Lesson. For Young
Folks. Story, "Settled Out or
Court,"
PAGE I. Eastern Kentucky Newt
Letters. Song, "C. K. Convention
Hymn."
Every loyal Republican will be
lilad to read Theodore Roosevelt's
Louisville speech (Mi page 3 of this
issue.
No one wants to forget the date
of the lk'i'ea Agricultural and School
Fair, November 3-4. Remember too
the Mountain Workers' Conference
will be in ses8ion at the same
time, October 31 to November 5.
This will be a good time to sub
scribe for The Citizen.
We are thinking seriously, on, ao
count of the big advance in price of
paper, to raise our subscription
prico to 81.50 after January 1, 1917
You will do well to subscribe or re
new before that date on the old
price. See some of the Auto con
tcxtanU and save yourself 50o on
your subscription.
"I don't believe In signs."
"I do. I make my living pa la ting
." Baltimore Americas.
Ill OUR OWN STATE
The ninth annual session of the
Kentucky Conference of Charities
and Correction opened in Owens
boro Saturday.
Circuit Judge Reed, of Paducah,
issued a rail Monday for a special
grand Jury to probe the double
lynching that occurred there last
week.
The Federal Farm loan Hoard
will hold a second hearing in Iui
ville Novemlier 21, according to an
nouncement Thursday in Washing-
bin.
Illiteracy has been wiped out in
twelve Kentucky counties, accord
ing to Mrs. Cora Wilson Stewart In
the last two years 40,000 adults have
been taught to read and write and
25.000 more will be taught this year,
Expectations that the Kentucky
Nutional Guardsmen would return
from the border In time for the na
tional election were shalered by a
War Department statement Friday
that no order for return was con
templated.
After January 1st no person hold
ing a political position in Kentucky
will be permitted to use railroad
parses. Even employees of railroads
must deny themselves the privil
ege of passes if they want to con
tinue in public office.
Two freight rate cases of vital In
terest to the coal industry of East
em Kentucky are in course of trial
before the Interstate Commerce
Commission. The Kentucky mining
Interests are opposing a horizontal
increase of rates on shipments into
Ohio and Indiana.
Because of a shortage in railroad
coal cars, due to the shipping de
mands of unusual prosperity, Louis
ville faces a famine in coal for steam
prod-.irtion. such as threaten the
closing of manufacturing plants, and
may repuire adjustment by the In
terstate Commerce Commission.
U. S. HEVS
EVANGELINE BOOTH.
Salvation Army Hsad
Is III With Neuritis.
CHICAGO POLICE
CHIEF INDICTED
6 0
. r-v,r -i
P
? .:-vi. !
: -
r" '
i
Charles C. Healey Accused of
Malfeasance.
WORLD HEWS .
The winter season has begun in
Europe and military operations are
carried on at greater disadvantage.
On the frontier of France cold rains
have been falling during the week,
and on the Russian frontier snow
has been falling, especially in the
Carpathian mountains where the
armies are trying to cross into
Austrian-Hungary territory.
BOND FIXED AT $20,000 Th nKhting In the Somme region
has been hard during the week.
" " This has been due to the deter-
Chargtd With Permitting Gambling mined efforts of the Oernians to
and Allowing Illegal Liquor Sal' regain lost ground in fierce counter
Chiefs Secretary and Secretary ef' attacks. The Allies, however, have
SporUmon Club Aloe Indletsd. advanced a few rods. Air craft art
figuring much more in this move
Chicago. Oct J4. Charles C. Healey, ment than e-ver before and the
chief of police, ha been Indicted on Frenrh have constructed some large
two charges In returns made In the and pow.rfu, Bhipgi
criminal court here. The first Indict-j
' ment accuses him of malfeasance and . . . .
the second name, the chief. William ' The combined army of Germans.
Luthardt hi. secretary, and Charles Bulgarians and Turks operating in
T. Esslg. secretary of the Sportsmen's the region near the mouth of the
Club, as conspirator. In a plot to Danube, under the rommand of Gen
nullify the anti gambling law.. era) Mackensen, have been able to
Chief Healey's bond was fixed at drive back the Rumanians and Rus-
$20,000. The bonds of Luthardt and . aians thus gaining some points of
vantage in the tills and ra s
irisoners.
Photo r America Press Association.
New York, Oct. 24. Commander
Evangeline Booth, head of the Salva-1
tlon Army In this country, has been
stricken with a severe attack of neu
ritis. The national congres. of the
Salvation Army will be held in Phila
delphia from Nov. 17 to 23 and will
be led by Mis. Booth If .he I. auffl
dently recovered.
Tribute was paid Sunday at a
meeting of the Kentucky Conference
of Charities and Correction at
Owensboro to the way Louisville
prisons are conducted. Miss Linda
Neville, of Islington, member of
the National Committee on Prisons,
said future Governors sliould be
educated as to the need of prison
reform.
London Banker Fitsgerald Goes to
Pen
McCulla FiUgerald. former cash
ier of the defunct First National
Bank of London was taken to the
Atlanta prison to serve his sentence.
He was convicted in the Federal i
Court several months ago for mis
appropriating the bank's funds;
took an appeal from the verdict of
tlie Court, but failed to make a
bond for costs. When the time for
tiling of the bond expired he was
rearrested and taken to prison at
once.
Two of Richmond's Publio Man Die
Within a Week
D. M. Chenault after a brief ill-'
ness, died at bis home in Richmond,!
Wednesday, October 18th. He wtu
a practicing lawyer at our county j
seat for thirty years, and for the;
past three years wap city attorney!
of Richmond.
The following Tuesday, October
2Uh, the city was again shocked
by the death of Roy C, White, Clerk,
of the Madison Circuit Court, which'
olllce he held two terms.
Both these men made 8;oof'i
records as public oftlcials and the.'
equals will be hard to find.
Oil Wall Supplies Received ,
That the oil business is booming
is evidenced by the shipping of oil
well supplies, by many car lots to
Irvine. The demand for these is
the largest in the history of the Ir-'
vine field.
Roosevelt at Corbio
It is estimated that 15.000 people
gathered at Curb in to see the ex
president. He spoke to a crowd of
5.000 in a downpour of rain. A
special train' from Gatliff carried
more than l.doo from Whitley Coun-1
ty to hear the Colonel. !
Prominent Railway Man Dead !
John A. Fox, superintendent of,
the Clifton Forge Division of the
C & O. Railway, died suddenly last
Sunday. He started as a fireman,1
was promoted to engineer, then t''
road foreman of engines, and finally'
to superintendent of a division. No 1
man in the employ of the system
nan more friend than Mr. Cox. The
remain were buried at Cynthiana.
GOES ON A PRACTICE MARCH
Guard Division at Llano Grande Pre
pare. For Maneuver.
Llano Grands, Tex.. Oct 24. The
t at tonal guard division at Llano
Grande, Including the Indiana troop,
and with the exception of the supply
trains, went on a practice march pre
paratory to divisional maneuvers. The
column, to close order, extended over
between eight and nine miles of road.
The route led through Mercedes.
William Armstrong, of Lwrenee
vllle, 111., a member of the Vlncenne.
(Ind.) company, la critically 111 of
pneumonia, Hi. father 1. on the way
here.
Esslg were fixed at $10,000 each.
Mayor Thompson was presiding over
a city council meettlng when Informed
Z 7 The Austrian prime minister,
turned. , ... .
"I will make a .tatement later," to owurga.ii, uaa oecii
aid. "But the people of Chicago ana Kinea Dy ine eaiior oi a Vienna
should understand that only one aide newspaper while he was sitting at
has been heard." his dinner. 'The Count was flfty-
Caplase. for the arrest of th three seven years old and had been prom
men were Issued, but Mr. Hoyne or- j jnent jn the affairs of Austria for
dered that they be withheld and the many yearg ne wa9 appointed to
Indicted men be allowed to surrender his pre8enl position In 1911. and waa
and give bond. After the return of a .ghl hmd man lo Emperop
J, , i fc.ri. Tn I 'lFrancis-Joseph.
plication for warrants for Healey and
othehr. before Judge Olson. Judge
Olson will give his decision on the
application today,
U. 8. Sailor 1. Drowned.
Washington, Oct. 24. John Arthur
Conard, a coxswain on the battleship
Nevada, fell overboard and was
drowned while the ship was maneu
vering on the southern drill grounds.
A dispatch to the navy department
reporting the drowning said the body
bad not be recovered.
To Send Italian. Homo.
Pari., Oct. 24. Germany I. about to
repatriate 1D.O0O Italian civilians who
are unfit for military service, and who
have been Interned In Germany, ac
cording to now. dispatches from
Rome.
POUNDED TO PIECES
TEMPEST CLAIMS 21 LIVES
LAKE ERIE YIELDS ANOTHER
VICTIM OF GALE'S FURY.
The question has been raised in
England in regard to an extension
of the conscription law, making mili-
In the first count. Chief Healey Is tary service compulsory, to Ireland.
accused of wilful and corrupt omission The sensitive relation that has ex
0f his duties as chief of police In per-1 jgted gjnce the execution of Sir
mining the operation of gambling n.0ger casement renders it likely that
room., allowing the .ale of liquor . gnch gn acl wou,d apouge M lh(J
without licenses, falling to nterter. h
with prostitution, and In making false, ....
statement, to Mayor Thompson In or-j ' r
I der to restore saloon licenses whlcli j "
had been revoked. The second count Conditions are reported to be pros
i was similar to the third, and charged J perous. in Russia. Moscow is the
Healey, Luthardt and Esslg with con-, largest city in the interior and food
spiring to violate the lawa. js plentiful with the exception of
i Francis IX Hanna, former moral, meats. Prices are high but the
Inspector, who has been demoted by , rate of wage8 jg a)g0 hign and there
Chler Heaiey. testinea auring ine wi-. , empoymenl for aI1 men avan.
ernoon at the hearing before Judge . , , fortune. sr h-
' Olson. He said he had received no . ' . . .
I encouragement from the head of th. " dn lhe wr nd
police department In the .uppre.aion , f,,,,8 of confidence seems to ex
of Tlca 1st Unfortunately the decree
i against vodka, the national drink,
i TWO KILLED. FIVE WOUNDED hM not done ,WT witn lnis evil
! entirely for they are using alco-
Gun Battle Follow Attempt to 'Arrest ho in other forms,
j Frank Taft. j
! Whitestone. N. Y., Oct 24. Two. On Sunday an election ocurred
' men were killed and five wounded in. MPXjc0 f0P delegate to con
here when Frank Taft age .ixty-flve. rtjtulionaI convention, which will
."J"--n to frame for Mexico a new
sailor, from the United state. tor- ..... ... .,, . .
pedo boat Henley, and Paul Stler. ! Conatitution that will embody the
..herlff of Queen, county, who wa. aoi Triple for which the revolu
' companled by deputte.. i tionists of the better class have
I -Taft ahot and killed Stler with a ' been fighting so long, and which the
i shotgun and in turn was himself killed United States has desired to see
1 by James Fitzgerald, a police aergoant ! established. Following this aa
The latter shot Taft with an automat
ic repeating rifle which had been ob
tained from one of the sailors, but
not until Taft had wounded four depu
ties and Fitzgerald.
A refusal of Taft to appear In th
election must be held for a Presi
dent of the country.
Adrift for 84 Hour Skipper I. Roa.
cuod, Half Dead From Battle
With Turbulent Sea.
VMtsra Newspaper Union Naws Bsnrtae.
Cleveland, Ohio. Storm-swept Lak
Erie gave up another fragment of th
story of It "Ulack Friday" another
vessel pounded to pieces In the sting
ing gale and jrintllug waves, carrying
11 men to their death. Tb last ves
sel 1 the Dulufh-owned whaleback
Janies B. Colgate. Ita Ion survivor,
adrift for 34 hours on a raft, brought
tbe story ashore. Half dead from two
nights and a day speutfi tortured and
torn by tbe waves, he was carried oS
a rescue ship at Couueaut, Ohio. Ho
Is Captalu Walter Grashaw, of this
city, waster of tbe Colgate, which
went down oft Long Point, Canada, op
posite Kris. Ever) on of too crew of
HI perished, 19 of them sucked down
to death the lustant the big steel boat
foundered In the storm and two added
to the roll, when exhaustion, xposur
and th relentless ave, sweeping
over th raft that carried their Can
tain, wahhed theut off when their
strength gave way. Th ferry steam
er Maruuetl and Bessemer No. I
picked up tb Captain oil KonJeuu,
Canada, opposil t'levelaud.
On October 0th an order was is
sued by Carranza which aims to
superior court In a contempt ess was bring about order by drastic punish-
tbe cause of th trouble. The tor- ment of brigandage of every form,
pedo boat wa In the sound off White- Interference with freights on the
mrA ttiA aallnpfl lanitftd sfter the ; I .J . : . i
l uuw ...w lam aus, imua on private rancnes
, shooting began. ani oluer acts of a similar kind
i, --- ,, -rM-f-.fte. wi" be l,uniHlu(i by death without
LETTERS CHOKE POSTOFFICE the right of trial of the regular
1 . i -L , IT- . .. kind- Jt '8 military measure
j Endlss Chain Sch.m. Clog. Mall- M, , now unap djgcUMion by
i . ' u,"9 . -u ltheJointCommissionintheir.it
Minneapolis. Minn, Oct. -Thou- Uim , Collnw.tk.ut.
sands of letter., each containing 10
VILLA TO QUIT If
FIRST CHIEF WILL
cents, are pouring Into the local post- j
offlc dally from women In various
' part of th country, who hav Joined
In an "endless chain" scheme pro-
' moted by tb so-called National Brok-
, erag Exchange.
! Federal agent are searching for of-
fleers of th "exchange." who are
j wanted for using th mail to defraud.
A room In a local business block, to '
which all th letter are addressed,
wa suddenly vacated three week
ago, tbe authorities say.
To every woman who would send
10 cents In silver and writ 0v friend,
urging them to Join In th chain, th
"exchange" promised a "new 1911
model silk petticoat"
"The volume of mall for th 'ex
change' I rapidly growing," said I
Postmaster E. A. Purday, "and w f Cos sip Regarding Msxlc Indicate a
Myling bead, In tb Faro Island. I
a sheer praclplc piling up Z.2U0 feet U
height
; Sensational Rumors Regarding
Mexico.
PLAN TO REMOVE CARRANZA
eeived 25.000 letter, enclosing 11,000
dime. Thousand of th letter hav
been returned to thewrltera buiA
large majority carry no return
marks and as a result the dead-letter
olllce i becoming clogged.
Revolt Against D Factor Govern
ment Villa, It I Reported, Would
Leave Country If Carranaa Quit.
Washington, Oct J 4. Francis
Villa has agreed to. ceahls. deureda-
(Continued on Page Eight)
i
