VOLUME XIV. NO. 258.
i
1
Vi
I
BEMIDJI CASH
MARKET BRINGS
MANY FARMERS
TO THIS CITY
High Prices Being-Paid for Potatoes
and All Kinds of Vegetables
and Produce.
2ASH BEING PAID
ON AIL PURCHASES
George Miller Sells 4,000 Bushels of
Potatoes Netting Him $5,000
Cash.
A cash market for vegetables and
produce is attracting many farmers
to this city.
A number of Bemidji merchants
are paying cash for all produce and
vegetables and as a result farmers are
selling their produce and vegetables
to Bemidji men instead of selling
them to merchants in other cities.
The highest prices are being paid.
"W. G. Schroeder and F. G. Tropp-
%^\,inan are making a specialty of buy-
!a produce and vegetables from the
fskmers at cash prices.
One of the largest sales of the sea
jwn was reported Wednesday. George
Miller, who owns a farm in the town
of Grant Valley, sold 4,000 bushels
of potatoes at $1 25 per bushel, net
ting him $5,000 cash.
NYMORE WARD DIVISIONS
TO BE TAKEN UP MONDAY
The Bemidji city council will take
up the dividing of Nymore into wards
at the regular meeting next Monday
.evening. Several wards in Bemidji
m&y be changed. Action will prob
ably be taken in regard to the va
cancies in wards caused by the alder
men moving out of the wards.
Petitions are being circulated in
the First ward for A. M. Bagley for
alderman to succeed John Moberg
who has moved to the Third ward.
Alderman Moberg has proved to be an
excellent official and efforts are be
ing made to find some way to have
him remain as a member of the coun-
tlEASLES EPIDEMIC
IS NOT SERIOUS
The present epidemic of measles in
Bemidji is not serious, according to
Dr. E. A. Shannon, city physician.
There are a large number of cases
of measles in Bemidji, but it is be
lieved that the epidemic is not at its
height.
"There is no cause for worry,"
said Dr. Shannon this morning.
DEMOCRATS TO HOLD
MEETING SATURDAY
At a meeting of Bemidji Democrats
held Wednesday evening at the city
hall, it was decided to hold a rally
at the city hall Saturday night. Sev
tural speakers from out of the city will
gTVe talks on the issues of the cam
paign.
SCHOOL NURSE IN
CITY FOR MONTH
Miss Madalen Burns arrived in the
city today and will take up her du
ties as school nurse She will aid in
curbing the present measles epidemic.
Her services were' secured through
the Woman's Study club through the
sale of Red Cross seals last year. She
i was sent here by the state board of
"IT 1th and will remain one month.
ftOT LUNCHES ARE
SERVED AT SCHOOL
Hot lunches are being served at
the high school each noon under the
direction of Miss Olson and Miss Fos
ter, instructors. The lunch is sold to
the students for several cents.
5 DEAD: 15 MISSING
IN HOSPITAL FIRE
(By United Press)
Farnham, Quebec, Oct. 26.Five
^persons were killed and 15 are miss
ing as a result of a fire which de
troyed the St. Elizabeth's hospital.
Scores were injured jumping from
windows. There were 350 inmates
sleeping when Ahe fire was discov
ered.
The i?
i
ta
^TLITZZT,
HIG TAX RATES IN
BEMIDJICAUSEDBY
LOCALEXPENDITURES
Outside Influence Not the Cause Assessed Valuations Have Been~aF
Standstill for Several Years While Expenditures Have Been
Steadily Increasing, Causing Mounting Tax Rate.
At a meeting of citizens held recently taxes and valuations were
discussed. It was noted at that meeting that but very few men
understood the tax situation and knew what taxes were, how
they were secured, etc. The Pioneer has prepared the following
article to explain the tax situation in this city and Beltrami
county. We urge everyone to read and study the article care-
fully so that our efforts will not have been in vainEditor
Taxes have been defined by the Minnesota supreme court as pecuniary
charges imposed by the legislative power of the state upon property to
raise money for public purposes, the only limitations upon this power
being such as are declared in the federal and state constitutions
In general, all real and personal property situated within the state
and all personal property of persons residing thereini,r including the prop-
erty of corporations and banks, is taxablel,t except such as is by law ex-
empt. The exemptions extend toe public property used exclusively for
public purposes, churchy,h schools, public hospitals, cemeteries, institu-
tions of purely public character and personal property of every head of a
family of the value of $100.
WMc
i
Assessor Determines Value on Property.
The law requires that the assessor, in placing a value on property
shall first determine the full and true value thereof on May 1, and then
extend his assessment at the specified percentages of this full and true
value provided by the classified assessment law. These percentages range
from 25 per cent in the case of household goods and personal apparel to
50 per cent in the case of mined or unmined iron ore. Manufacturers' tools
and products, merchandise, lumber, live stock, automobiles, machinery and
unplatted real estate are assessed at 33 1-3 per cent of full and true value
and bank stock, buildings and improvements on railroad or government
land, stocks in foreign corporations and the poles, posts, wires, rails, con-
duits, etc., of public service corporations are assessed on a forty per cent
basis.
While the assessed value of the property of a taxpayer determines
what proportion of the public burden he must bear, it does not determine
the amount of his tax. The tax levy is made before the assessed valuation
is fixed and the rate afterwards.
The levy in a city, like Bemidji, is fixed by the council and the school
board. Each one of these bodies prepare a budget in which is set forth
in dollars the amount of money which will be needed to conduct the vari-
ous municipal and school activities during the following year These
sums are duly certified to the county auditor. In the same manner the
board of county commissioners arrives at the amount of money that will
be needed for county purposes.
When the assessment totals in each district have finally been deter-
mined late in the fall the county auditor estimates per cent of the
assessed valuation necessary to raise the amount of money required in
each municipality and school district in
the
HE BEMIDJI DAILY PIO
dectI
Cize
avrasr
th
the so-called ad valorem or general property tax, based on the cash value
ot the real and personal property subject thereto. The theory of this sys-
tem of taxation is that every person shall bear a share of the public bur-
den in proportion to the value of the taxable property which he owns or
otherwise controls.
In order to determine the amount of the tax to be imposed on each
property owner it is therefore necessary in the first instance that some
method of determining the value of his holdings be arrived at. For this
purpose each municipality, township or other taxing district chooses an
assessor whose duty it is to ascertain the amount of property subject to
taxation within his district and to value the same. In this manner the
original assessment is made. When the assessor has concluded his labors
his books are transmitted to the local board of review which is supposed
to equalize the assessment as between individuals and make such adjust-
ments as it deems proper, and then the county commissioners sitting as a-
county board of equalization with the returns from each district in the
county before them are required to equalize as between such districts
Finally the Minnesota Tax commission sitting as a state board of equaliza-
tion goes over the returns from each county and equalizes as between coun-
ties. When these proceedings all have been complied with the final valua-
tions are fixed.
purposethe
the rate of taxation and includes the state which is made October 1
of each year by the state auditor.
The situation can best be illustrated by an example We will assume
that in a certain mythical city the council deems it necessary to raise
nlo
$30,000 for local purposes, while ,the school board wants $50000 it is
county auditor is duly notified. In the meantime the board of county com-
missioners has decided to spend $100,000, this money to be raised from
the entire county.
When the assessed values have been finally fixed the auditor sets to
work to make the rate He finds that the assessment in the city we are
dealing with is $1,000,000 and in the county $5,000,000. Obviously to
raise the $80,000 needed by the council and the school board with an
assessed valuation of $1,000,000 will require a rate of eight per cent
Again it is apparent that in order to raise the $100,000 the county wants
it will be necessary to impose a rate of two per cent on the $5,000,000
assessed valuation in the county. This will add two per cent to the city
rate, making a total of ten per cent. The state rate of, let us say, four
mills on the dollar has previously been determined by the state auditor
and must also be included. This will raise $4,000 in the city and $20,000
in the county, all going to the state.
From this it will be seen that under the conditions sets forth the
rate of taxation in this mythical city will be 10.4 per pent and the total
amount raised on a valuation of $1,000,000 will be $104,000.
Now 1 us suppose that the assessor in this city disregarded the law
and fixed he aggregate assessed value at but $500,000 It the city and
schools nede $80,000 as before, the rate for these purposes would have
to be increased to sixteen per cent to raise the desired amount. If the as-
sessment was doubled, however, the rate for local purposes would be but
four per cent.
Prom this illustration it will be readily seen that if the assessment
(Continued on Page Six)
BEMIDJI -MINNESOTA, THURSDAY EVENING. OCTOBER 26, 1916.
ALLIESBLO W FOURTEE N MILES GE
interested is
i
th
inan
county. This percentage is
thrate
_
iaioc
GOVERNOR CALLS
EXTRA SESSION
OF LEGISLATURE
FOR SATURDAY
Extraordinary Session to Convene to
Permit Militia Men to
Vote.
BELIEVED ONE DAY
WILL COMPLETE SESSION
Legislature to Convene at Eleven
o'clock Members Favor Vote
Grant.
Governor J. A. Burnquist has called
an extraordinary session of the Min
nesota legislature for eleven o'clock
Saturday morning to pass laws to per
mit the Minnesota militia men on the
border to vote at the general election
Nov. 7.
It is believed that the session will
be completed in one day.
Members of the Minnesota legisla
ture urged the governor to call the
session and it is believed that the
measure will be passed.
OVERTHROW OF
CARRANZA BEING
PLANNED IN EL
PASOSAYSREPORT
United States Secret Service Inves
tigates Report of
Revolution.
VILLISTAS JOIN
WITH LEGALISTAS
New Revolutionary Party to Fur
nish Villa With Money Fall
of City Reported.
(By United Press)
El Paso, Oct. 26.It is reported
that Villa's emissaries are here in a
conference with members of a new
revolutionary party, the Legalistas.
It is reported that an agreement has
been perfected for the overthrow of
Carranza. 'villa will act as com
mander-in-chief and the Legalistas
party will furnish the money. At
least one Villista is known to have
crossed the border for the confer
ence here. United States secret ser
vice and neutrality agents are inves
tigating.
SaniszLzssriFgsrjoe
Antonio, Oct. 26.Fersistent
reports have been received here
the fall of Chihuahua City to th
Villa forces. The reports have not
been confirmed.
El Paso, Oct. 26.General Gon
zales at Juarez has denied in "vigor
ous terms" the report that Chihuahua
City had fallen before an attack by
Villa.
STATE RANKS 12th
FOR GOOD ROADS
(By United Press)
St. Baul, Minn., Oct. 26.Min-s
mone
SOotiL roads, record
nesota this year ranks twelfth in
SDen
much was spent this year than in
1904.
KUPKE IS FOUND NOT
GUILTY OF MURDER
(Special to the Pioneer)
Bagley, Minn., Oct. 26.Frank
Kupke, Clearwater county farmer, is
not guilty of the murder of Joe Vitra,
his neighbor. A jury in the disti-v.+
court returned this verdict at 6:30
o'clock this morning after being out
15 hours.
Judge C. W. Stanton of Bemidji
presided at the case.
The term of the district court here
has been completed.
Mr. and Mrs. Milo Gallinger, who
have recently returned from a trip
in the West, have taken possession
of the Challenge hotel. Mrs. G^-
linger was formerly Mrs. A. L. Smith
and until a year and a half ago had
charge of the hotel.
Dr. B. H. Smith spent today in
OetiameH on professional basinets.
HUGHES LEAVES
ON FOURTH TOUR
34 ADDRESSES
IN EIGHT DAYS
Republican Candidate to Tour Con
necticut, Massachusetts, Ohio
and Indiana.
SOCIALIST CANDIDATE
ATTACKS ADMINISTRATION
Colonel Roosevelt at Cedar Rapids,
Iowa, Enroute to Chicago for
Address.
(By United Press)
New York, Oct. 26.Charles E
Hughes left this morning on his
fourth and final stumping tour. He
will have a strenuous eight-day ses
sion in Connecticut, Massachusetts,
Ohio and Indiana, 34 separate ad
dresses being scheduled.
Parkersburg, Oct. 26.President
Wilson passed through here enroute
to Cincinnati today.
Cedar Rapids, la., Oct. 26.Colonel
Roosevelt stopped here today on his
trip to Chicago where two big
speeches ends his western campaign
tour.
New York, Oct. 26.Even money
is being bet on the election. Twenty
five thousand dollars was placed even
yesterday that Wilson would win.
Elk City, Okla., Oct. 26.Allen
Benson, Socialist presidential candi
date, says that the department of ag
riculture is sending out circulars ad
vising the people to eat bread three
part potato flour and two parts wheat
flour. "That's the admnistration's
way of meeting the bread situation,"
he said in an address here.
VThe potato bread would not
interfere with the profits of exporters
who are stripping our country of
the wheat."
TWO PAY FINES ON
CHARGE OF DRUNKENNESS
Two men paid a fine of two dollars
each in the municipal court this
morning on a charge of drunkenness.
TIMBER BARON PATS
LARGEST HALF TAXES
Charles F. Ruggles, millionaire
lumberman of Manastee, Mich., has
paid his "last half" taxes at the of
fice of the county auditor, amounting
to $4,841.50. This is the largest
amount of half taxes paid this year.
Several firms pay larger taxes, how
ever, paying the full amount in May.
HULTGREN-FEARTNG.
David Carl Hultgren was united
in marriage to Dora Fearing, both of
Carpenter, N. D., by Judge M, A.
Clark, Wednesday.
K. C. HOLD FOURTH
DEGREE INITIATION
(By United Press)
St. Paul, Minn., Oct. 26.From
all over the Northwest, Knights of
Columbus are in St. Paul today to
attend the initiation of a class of 200
to the fourth degree, the highest in
the order.
This is the first initiation hefd by
the Knights of Columbus since 1913.
The ceremonies are expensive and dif
ficult so they do not undertake to
hold this fete every year.
KEUJHER
SCHOOL*
NOTES
The sewing class is now using two
machines. The new one was received
last week.
The cooking class has started using
the new hot lunch dishes and the new
cupboard.
The literary society gave a very
successful program on Friday. The
spelling match was tense with atten-}
tion and interest. It resulted in a
tie.
D. W. Gordon of Minneapolis gave
a 4 5-minute talk to the upper grades
Friday He spoke on the subject,
"What Am I Here For?" He is a
fluent and inspiring speaker.
DULUTH STRIVING
FOR OCEAN TRAFFIC
(By United Press)
Duluth, Minn., Oct. 26.Duluth is
today striving hard to get ocean traf
fic. Plans have been drawn and pre
sented to the civic associations of
Superior and Duluth.
With the opening of the Welland
canal, ocean boats will be able to
come to the edge of the Superior har
bor, but the Superior and Duluth har
bor will have to be deepened before
ocean-going ships can enter.
The enterprise will also necessitate
dredging {he Soo canal.
FORTY CENTS PER MONTI
GREATEST BRIDGE
IN EUROPE BLOWN
UPWHENCERNOVODA
ISTAKENBYTEUTONS
Petrograd Reports That Mackenson's
Attacks are Growing
Weaker.
FRENCH CAPTURE
FORT D0UAUM0NT
New British Loan of $300,000,000 is
Arranged by J. P. Morgan
& Company.
(By United Press)
London, Oct. 26.A dispatch from
Rome says that the Rumanians ex
ploded the Cernovoda fourteen-mile
bridge, the greatest bridge in Eur
ope, following the evacuation of Cer
novoda.
Paris, Oct. 26.The Serbians and
French have gained several victories
near Monastir. The Serbs captured
the heights along the Verna river and
the French cavalry occupied the
bridges at Swersda and the villages
of Goldbroda and Laissica.
Petrograd, Oct. 26.It is reported
here that Mackenson's attacks
against the Russo-Rumanians in Do
brudja are growing weaker.
Verdun, Oct. 26.it was battling
in rain, mists and clouds of smoke
that the French recaptured Fort
Douaumont in less than three hours
brilliant offensive that sent the
crown prince back from Verdun.
Berlin, Oct. 26.-The military critic
today semi-offlcially stated that part
of the Russo-Rumanian forces in Do
brudja escaped into Old Rumania by
fleeing across the Cernovoda bridge
before General Mackenson captured
the town.
New York, Oct. 26.Official an
nouncement was made today by J. P.
Morgan & Co. that a new British
loan by American bankers aggregat
ing $300,000,000 had been arranged.
It will bear interest at 5% per cent
and is payable in two installments,
one of three years and one of fir*
years. PRESIDENT OF COLLEGE
TO SPEAK AT SERVICES
Dr. A. E. Craig, president of Morn*
ingside college, Sioux City, la., will
occupy the pulpit at the regular
morning service at the Methodist
church next Sunday morning. Dr.
Craig is one of the leading educators
in the Northwest and is a speaker
of unusual force and remarkable per
sonality. NAVAL MILITIA MAY
MARCH IN CARNIVAL
The Minnesota naval militia, of
which the Bemidji militia is a part,
may participate in St. Paul's winter
carnival Officials charge of the
carnival are urging the militia to do
so. Naval uniforms will be worn as
carnival costumes. The membership
of the Minnesota militia is 500.
Thirty-eight members have been
enrolled in the St Paul and Minneap
olis division. The Twin City organi
zation has made a request for a tor
pedo boat to be used as a training
ship on the Mississippi river.
SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS
TO HOLD CONFERENCE
School superintendents from Koo
chiching, Itasca, Cass, Hubbard, Bel
trami and Clearwater counties will
hold a conference in Bemidji at the
high school tomorrow afternoon with
state grade and high school inspect
ors. The inspectors are R. B. Mc
Lain, state grade inspector and A. T.
Flynn, assistant state high school in
spector.
The conference will begin at three
o'clock and the suject of reading will
be discussed.
The inspectors ha^e just completed
an inspection of th schools in this
district.
It is expected tha superintendents
and principals from Grand Rapids,
International Falls, Pine River, Park
Rapids, Cass Lake, Walker and other
points will be present. County su
perintendents will also attend the
meeting.
A domestic science class will sente
a dinner to the visitors at six o'clock.
1 S3
