frWe*«
Opti:
OFFICIAL PAPER OF BLACKFOOT CITY AND BINGHAM CO., IDA.
VOL. IX. NO. 48
BLACKFOOrr, BINGHAM COUNTY, IDAHO, THURSDAY. OCTOBER 26, 1916
$2.00 PER YEAR
GUILTY, OR
NOT GUILTY?
We are more than pleased to know
that Mr. Trego in the last week's is
sue of his personal organ accepted our
challenge to inform the public where,
when and how we ever defended graft
ers. His first alleged grafter that he
says we defended is A. E. Christensen
of' Shelley, who for many years was
surveyor of Bingham county when it
paid the paltry annual pittanee'of $300,
much to the injury of lumself aud large
family.. When Mr. Christensen was de
feated for county surveyor two years
ago he was accused by Mr. Trego of
unlawfully confiscating a surveyor's
stadia rod, worth new $13.50, and
* ' some other ' ' goods, which gave his al
leged theft a valuation of $28.69.
Owing to the fact that we have per
sonally known Mir. Christensen for
about six years, as an honest man, and
have the pleasure of the acquaintance
of many reputable citizens of Bingham
county who have known him for twen
ty-five years, who will gladly testify
to his unimpeached integrity, we did
not believe he was guilty of the charge
so publicly made against him by The
Idaho Republican. But before at
tempting to acquit or convict Mr. Chris
tensen of the charge preferred against
him we interviewed James Young, his
successor in the county surveyor's of
fice. Mr. Young informed us that Mr.
Christensen upon his retirement from
office told him that he had the alleged
stolen stadia rod at his home in Shelley,
and desired to use it for a short time.
As Mr. Young had a rod of his own he
told Mr. Christensen that he was wel
come to the use of the rod to complete
the work he was doing, Mr. Young
also informed us that the "other
things" that his official predecessor
had in his home in Shelley were some
old and almost used-up record books
that he did not intend to use. Under
these circumstances if Mr. Christensen
is a grafter and a thief of the county's
property we are not ashamed of hav
ing defended him. Two years ago when
Mr. Christensen aspired for office he
was solicited by the editor of The Re
publican for one of his characteristic
hold-ups which he terms $10.00
"write-ups." But this ancient and
almost obsolete political graft of un
principled newspaper boosters was
spurned by Mr. Christensen, who in
formed his chronic write-up artist that
he had lived in Bingham county for
thirty years and needed no introduction,
much less a recommendation from him.
Had Trego's $10.00 graft been success
ful the Idaho Republican would have
told its readers that Mr. Christen
sen was one of the most honored farm
ers in Bingham county, a competent
and trustworthy county surveyor who
never shirked his duty to better him
self at the expense of his constituents
or took advantage of the many oppor
trinities he had of charging the eoun
tv exhorbitant prices. Mr. Christensen
is not the only man in Bingham county
and Blackfoot who has been misrepre
sented and maligned for refusing to-be
a victim of this particular hold-up ar
tist 's policy for revenue only—that
has been far more profitable than hon
orable.
In order to receive sympathy he
frequently refers to our abuse of him.
We reluctantly admit that we have on
several occasions referred to his indis
cretion, but absolutely only to de
©uJiTlaUonaÉ JJa/nfe
j&awe/rrifctfi/
rftk&denal
(mvvW'
JxiMt/mot
Uii/nAv,
^ TiVi T
ta
i
C
N-.4Ç
Thé "Fédéral Reserve 1 ' System Of Banks, of
'which our bank is a member, was thought out by the
best brains in the Banking and Business World.
This system demands that a bank be Sound before
it can become a Member Bank.
We can take care of your Banking Business and
shall be glad to have you come in and "Make Your
self at Home."
BANK WITH US
The First National Bank,
Blackfoot, Idaho
feml our reputation and business which
he has unjustly and untruthfully as
sailed, even to his own great disad
vantage. Trego, like some of his pres
ent friends who were once his most
bitter enemies, but are now using him
for their political purposes, will do well
to cease their scandalizing and injuri
ous personal attacks, for some of them,
in more ways than one, have records
that they should be ashamed of—rec
ords that should ever keep them from
attempting to tarnish the reputation
of any one—particular^ of any one
less guilty than they. As it is often true
that it takes a thief to catch a thief,
it is also true that it takes a reprobate
to be a character assassin or blackmail
er.
Round up the men who are continu
ally and surreptitiously bulldozing and
backcapping their fellow citizens for
political or private gain and if you in
vestigate their political and private
records you will come to the conclu
sion that they are far more disrepu
table than those they seek to injure or
defame. All men are Binful enough
without making them more sinful and
the struggles of all men and women are
unavoidably severe enough without try
ing to make their struggles unbearable
by constantly publishing their petty
indiscretions that no man is entirely
free from, and it is far better to sup
press than publish them, especially if
we have some of our own.
We are glad to know that The Ida
ho Republican is soon to desert its
present disreputable environments, and
hope that when it is comfortably es
tablished in its new and undefiled
business home that it will be happy and
virtuous enough to remember the past
l overlook the faults of those who
have been willing to forget it for the
benefit of the community
just for the purpose of electing a po
litical friend whose record is not above
criticism. We do not believe the voters
of Bingham county who have known
Ras" Christensen for thirty years
will approve of this brand of pclitical
boosting.
No normal newspaper editor will at
tempt to besmirch the reputation of an
honest man and disgrace his posterity
6 U BEEF CATTLE SOLD AT
AUCTION IN POCATELLO
Six hundred and forty-four beef cat
tle were sold at auction at the Fort Hall
Indian agency last Wednesday to Mur
nan & Clayton of Denver, for $42,180.
Bidding was spirited and 214 steers
sold at. $6.40 per hundred. This is the
highest price paid this year in South
eastern Idaho, $2.25 per hundred hav
ing been the former high figure. Oth
er buyers were Jos. Coumerilh who got
19 culls, Hopkins, who got 6 culls, and
J. 1). Jensen, who got 9 bulls. The cat
tle which were raised by Indians of the
Reservation, were loaded by Superin
tendent II. II. Miller for immediate
shipment.
Mr. A. E. Byers is temporarily em
ployed in the Neil F. Boyle Hardware
store to accommodate a rush of busi
ness.
What do you want in a Justice of tho
Supreme Court is a man of legal train
ing and ability, and one that no power
on earth can turn from what he believes
right. Ask any man who knows Mr.
Bice if he is not that kind of a man.
Store.
Gold Fish and Fish Globes. Racket
REPLY TO BEAKLEY
Recently, in the public press, Mr, W. A. Beakley, my Democratic
opponent, challenged my honesty, reputation, and my administration of
the office of Prosecuting Attorney, and knowingly and wilfully made
false statements relative to many of the cases he mentioned in his article.
I deplore personalities and dirty politics, hut cannot permit any man to
impugn my honesty and good faith, or to maliciously assail an honorable
District Judge, without attempting to refute such base misrepresents
Hons.
Two years ago, Mr. Beakley, who now criticises my party affilia
tions, was one of the many who endorsed me and demanded that I become
a candidate for County Attorney, notwithstanding my well known ad
herence to the principle of the Republican Party. I was elected by a
majority of 485 votes. Mr. Beakley waa a candidate for office in the
primary election that year (as he is at every election) and only
received 168 votes in the entire county. I am now seeking a second term,
these being the only two times I have ever asked the people of Bing
ham County for their suffrages. In September, 1916, the Republican
party endorsed my administration in a gratifying manner, giving me
every precinct in the county, with a total majority over my opponent of
823 votes. X deeply appreciate this magnificent expression of confidence.
Had I, like Beakley, run for office and been beaten so decisively so
many times, I would not now have the temerity to again appear as a
candidate for any office. Using his words I ask which of us is the
"place hunter?"
Mr. Beakley comments upon the sentences Imposed upon bootleggers,
and evidently does not know that the Prosecuting Attorney cannot pro
nounce sentence; that officer only secures the conviction of the offender,
and the court imposes the punishmnt. For Beakley to criticise the pun
ishments meted out in these cases is for him to publicly charge Judge
F. J. Cowan, who has shown himself to be one of the most able, fair, and
upright judges in the State of Idaho, with misfeasance In office. Of ne
cessity Mr. Beakley's Indictment is against Judge Cowan, as the Prose
cuting Attorney has nothing to do with the imposition of sentences.
Mr. Beakley who, as you know and the Court records show, was recently
suspended from the practice of his profession because of illegal and un
professional practices, now sets himself up as a paragon of virtue and
asks the people who believe in good government to elect him to enforce
the prohibition law, and infers that if he were elected he would give tho
criminals more drastic sentences, or would dictate to the Judge how he
should perform his judicial duties.
During the 20 months in which I have been in office I have con
victed 15 persons in felony cases resulting in those persons being sen
tenced to the penitentiary, and in the trial of such felony cases three de
fendants were acquitted by a jury. During that time I have convicted
90 persons on misdemeanor charges, and 7 defendants were acquitted,
after trial on such charges. Besides these cases I have convicted 55
persons charged with the violation of the prohibition laws of the state,
and only one bootlegger was acquitted. It is true that I have dismissed
8 liquor cases, but I filed written reasons therefor with the Judge,
which reasons were publicly stated in open court and approved by the
Judge before the cases were dismissed, the reasons invariably being the
fact that material witnesses could not be located or induced to testify.
There are still 11 of such cases now pending for trial in the District
Court at the November term. ,
Mr. Beakley asks, "Does the above record indicate to your mind
the actions of an officer who is trying, to suppress the illegal sale of
lntoxicati-sg liquor, or rathe, does 1% iWeatn permission to violate the
law?'' What do you think, Mr. Voter, with a record of 55 convictions
and 1 acquittal, and 11 cases now awaiting trial. If my record shows a
lack of ability, effort, or purpose, then I can promise nothing better for
the future. If I am re-elected I will continue my work along the same
lines.
In Mr. Beakley's published article he wilfully makes misstatements
relative to 13 of the cases mentiond therein, evidently with the purpose
of prejudicing the public against me. The Court records will verify
every statement I have made herein, and are subject to the inspection
of every person desiring to investigate my record, or that of Mr.
Beakley.
I was first admitted to the bar in 1902, and am admitted to prac
tice in all the Courts of three states, and the U.S. Supreme Court, and
have never been disbarred or even SUSPENDED during that time, and
am willing to have my life and character and standing as a man, and
reputation and success as an attorney investigated and compared with
that of my Democratic opponent.
This article was induced by the attack made by Mr. Beakley upon,
me, and is written solely in self defense. I have no doubt about the
result of the election, judging from my past successes, when being opposed
by abler and better men than Mr. Beakley.
Respectfully,
RALPH W. ADAIR,
Republican Candidate for Re-Election. Prosecuting Attorney.
KING'S DAUGHTERS ELECT
At a regular meeting of the King's
Daughters last Tuesday evening the
following officers were elected:
Loriuo Tavey—President.
Marion Chubbuck—Vice President.
Iris Stone—Secretary.
Marguerite Van Akin—Treasurer.
ORPHEUM THEATRE
Thursday, Nov. 2
The Musical Treat of the Season
KULOUA'S
HAWAI1ANS
In an Elaborate Musical, Singing, Dancing and In
strumental Production
Beautiful Scenic and Electrical Effects
TTP.ÀR the magic melodies of south
SEA ISLANDS
Played and Sung as You Never Heard Them Before
THE GREATEST OF ALL HAWAIIAN SHOWS
See the Sensational Hula Hula Dance
Regular Picture Program in Addition
Admission -- -- 15 & 2® c *
FAREWELL PARTY
Last night in the banquet hall of the
Second Ward Church, a very pleasant
farewell party was tendered Elwood
Allred, Leroy B. ('lark and Alva Jor
dan, who will leave for missions in the
Southern States. The evening was pleas
antly spent in dancing and indulging
in very palatable refreshments.
IMPROVEMENTS PROGRESING
The new Eccles Hotel is nearing com
pletion very fast and it is expected
that the roof will be in place about the
20th of next month. The calculation is
to have the stores ready for occupancy
about the first of the year, but the ho
tel will not be ready to receive guest*
before about the first of February. We
understand that Dahle & Eccles are
figuring on building several more new
and substantial buildings as soon as
possible.
GET YOUR EYES RIGHT
People who have suffered
for years with severe head
aches could get wonderful
results for their trouble, no
matter how good the sight
may be, if they consulted Dr.
Scarborough, the Eye Spec
ialist, whoso special meth
ods have given excellent re
sults to a.number of oui
readers. See him at the Cot
tage Hotel, Blackfoot, Tues
day, Nov. 7.
CARD OF THANKS
We wish to express our heartfelt
thanks for the many acts of kindness
done for us at the time of the loss of
our beloved son Neil. We wish espec
ially to thank the Elks and Knights of
Columbus for the aid they gave us, and
all who so kindly sent floral tributes.
All these things will be gratefully rr
menibered, and have helped to soften
the blow that fell so henvilv upon us.
NEIL F. BOYLE and FAMILY.
SPEAKING AND FREE
SHOW TONIGHT
The people of Blackfoot and vicinity
are invited out to the Orpheum theatr
tonight, Friday, to hear Hon. E. T.
A. Walters, candidate for attorney gen
oral. Mr. Walters is generally regarded
by everyone as the best campaign
speaker in Idaho, and every voter, what
his or her polities may be, ought to
hear him. A free show will be given
after the speaking.—Adv.
ed
to
The Catholic Ladles will serve a 5
o'clock chicken dinner at the V. I. S.
room on election day. The public cor
dially invited.
SUNDAY AFTERNOON BLAZE
Last Sunday about 4 o'clock Has
sing'H photograph gallery on Bridge
street was totally destroyed by fire,
slnoke and water. The fire departmnt
was called out and checked the flames
from spreading to other property. It
was insured for $1,000. Mr. Hussing
has secured gallery room in the Eccles
building.
ANOTHER CHERRY
TREE ACCIDENT
Last Saturday Stacey, the 7-year old
soil of Commissioner Bond, fell out of
a cherry tree and broke his left arm.
PARIS MILLINERY
Special sale on all Millinery Goods.
Now is your chance to get an up-to
date hat for less money than at any
place in, the town.—Adv.
(F
Business Protection
A sound business connection is as
necessary in times of prosperity to
further progress as it is in a business
crisis to ward off disaster. __
A growing account with D. W. Stand
rod k Co. protects money when it is
plentiful and builds up a credit which
can be utilized with benefit when mon
ey is "tight.''
We aim to constantly exten d our
scope of Influence through the quality
of our service.
Commercial accounts are invited.
D. W. Standrod & Co.
Bankers
BLACKFOOT IDAHO
BIG HAYSTACK
PARTLY BURNS
Last Saturday afternoon a 300-ton
stack of hay on the old Pratt ranch,
about four miles from Blackfoot, and
belonging to the Idaho Land & Live
Stock Co., was found to be on fire.
Between fifty and seventy-five of the
neighboring farmers were soon on tho
scene and did everything possible to
conquer the flames and save the hay.
Finally the burning east end of tho
stack was cut off and the balance of
the big stack was saved. About seven
ty-five tons of hay were destroyed.
The fire is supposed to have been paus
ed by internal combustion. The Black
foot fire department responded to the
Call for assistance and did all it could
to subdue the fire.
CATTLEMEN WILL
HOLD STATE MEET
The Idaho Cattle and Horse Growers'
Association is to hold its first annual
convention in the Idaho convention
city, Pocatello, on the 31st day of Oc
tober,- 1916.
The association is composed of Idaho
men who make a business of growing
and ranging cattle and horses on tho
publie domain and on the forests within
the borders of the state. It is the out
growth of an organization of several
associations formed in Custer county
and throughout Central Idaho for tho
protection of the industry, and in less
than six months has gained eight hun
dred active members, representing 125,
000 bead of cattle and horses, with an
estimated valuation of ten million dol
lars' worth of live stock, that all do
pend more or less for range on the for
ests and public domain, as much of tho
stock is grazed thereon one-half of tho
time, at least, and the remainder of tho
time is l'ed in pastures of the Idaho
ran eh men.
Colgate's Talcum rowder, Tooth
Paste, Soap, Etc., at the Racket Store.
EXCURSIONS TO POCATELLO
Oc tober 30-31; Nov. 1st.
Via O. 8. L. for United Cattle and
Horse Growers' Association convention,
and Automobile Show. Tickets limited
to November 6th. See agents for rates
and further details.
John C. Rice was bom on a farm in
Illinois; he took his degree at Cornell;
he is the leading attorney in Canyon
county and is one of the best in the
State. He is fitted by training and
temperament for the office of Justice of
the Supreme Court.
The ladies of the Baptist church will
hold a Christmas bazaar and supper
on Saturday, Dee. 2nd.—Adv. 1/
TEACHERS' EXAMINATION
Notice is hereby given that on Sat
urday, October 28th, an examination
in Idaho School Law and Civic::, Cours»)
of Study, and High School Adininis
tratim will bo given at the Court House.
LULAll E. SMITH,
10-26-2t Oouiit-y Supt.
You, men, can buy the
best $3.00 hat made in sta
ple style for $2.65. Novelty
styles for $2.35. The "No
Name" brand; ask for it.
Biethan's.
