, l!J
Messenger.
Oko
Democratic in Principle, But Independent in Thought and Action. Devoted to Honesty, Truth anrmQood Government.
I Wo- 44.
OKOLONA, MISSISSIPPI. THURSDAY. OCTOBER 26. 1916
VOL 44.
LONA
i
. HvA ft. f
Ireat Interest In Farm Loans
First Steps Necessary
College, Miss., Oct.
f. -Inquiries pouring into the ,
Mississippi A. and M. College grantea'
borrower pays his local secretary
cash for his stock except when
the loan is for securing a home.
In this case the amount is held
the loan when it is
Cure Sweet Potatoes
For High Price Time
i ' ..i M,B
state.
For
the benfit of those who
V. . .i--L Scarcitv of Cotton Seed
f now tnai ine prospects oi cneap . .:ali
pV-.ai . ided For Planting Promised
fri B Good, early planting cotton
-ias o ..... -ne m- , - u e,ar-,i npyt
iarmers of this . ... , . a iarr(1
Spring, espeuiawjr in wx -e
territory where the weevils got
. a'..- i. u.v -.An'an The
bant to take immediate action m ... . . . . - Wuyh arill cot.
I nun yii,Ma u-'e "e"t
ton scarce, not enougn seea is
being held in many localities o
plant the next crop. . The Cleve
land Big Boll seed is . especially
going to be in' demand.' This
varietv1 has shown up well for
k ?e SyS. u1 1 5 k k t several years and this year has
full operation by February, but ;specialiy , good results
Iffloan associations can be formed tn nan nnApr boll
yfcow and the preliminaries be
Worked out by the time loans
f an be secured. .
Some one in a community
Awhere a loan association is
in' prospect should write to
ho Federal Farm Loan m
a-u. Washington, D. C,
fjinks which will be useful in
ninor an application for a
ireanizine farm loan associa
ions, Prof. T. J.1 Brooks, Rural
Iconomist of the College is
iffering the following pointed
information and directions on
Jthe first steps necessary. ,
, The system will perhaps be in
I
barter. When these blanks are
ceived. the best plan will be to
tall a meeting of those interest-
the whole plan.
V Cl VA VWVVww r .
aa a fntinn ti nlant under' boil
UkJ fvrww " X" ,
weevil conditions. The State
Experiment Station places it in
the first rank as an early variety.
On the Mississippi prison farms
it made larger yields than any
other variety this season. It has
, shown up well among growers in
nor v ouprv nan, ul uic . ouire.
i i X- J . v f . .
We would suggest that all peo
n!e havincr this variety, where it
has produced well, save it care
fully and if they will report to
na tho miantitv thev have we
r . . . .. ii j I win oe aoie w put mwu w
u inatwiiAtiAna oro Tn ifiwPU I . . . i .
guwe uwuvwVU . mwUnn w th those WhO WISn CO
r .. Ml 1 t nntom "vv" " . .
, ,t win oe ey r buv. There are some inquiries
ffhether the community .P- ' buttherev
1 .i-A th msatinn PflrPS m ' -4 . ...
mtcu n, . . -- before the beginning of the year,
eet the reauirements in order . H. T,:
r - . i r.m riT.nfr varicucs. aa
i K,t nttorinor I ' . .
;eir lana as security. roks Imnroved class up very
iThere must be not less man . -r,rnm5.
rJ ... . - i. i. i 1 wen, aim iu vjr.w v-i.
tkn citizens wno wan i w , .... ij nc.-
7, n Prt scarcuv we wuuiu oukkcqv
...SL ST " Uavin. some p.antis seed from
VIOne Ul W11UU1 i j. .nn.nrllaca nf
" 1 . . 1 Villi r IIHSL LIUU ICKOimraa
Lknn VIIHI OTin Till 1 111M I I 1 1 1 1 r I f I rl I I I -
ialali fiuU) emu uj vwv
110,000, for a length of time not
i ufliro on1 nnt. over
Plrtv years.
ma . .-. - ,
If it is decided to lorm a loan
aociation. a temporary organ-
ation can be effected, consist
ing of a Secretary-treasurer, and
loan committee of three.
L. must tVion he filled out
I il I i in 1 I 1 1 JO Li ,
r!tt.nor forth the DroDOsed name r,olleire. nursery stock
,f the association, the amount heinff delivered to farmers
j-j
name, as tliey may De neeaeu.
J. F. McKay. Marketing- Speci
alist, Miss. A. & M. College.
Winter Planted Fruit Trees
Give Best Results
According to reports
in to the Mississippi A.
Successful storage of sweet
potatoes requires conditions some
what different from those neces
sary for the storage of other
root crops. The potato needs to
be mature and free from dirt,
bruises and breaks in the skin. .
Die the crop when the soil is
dry and allow the potatoes to re
main on the ground in the sun
for a few hours, but never leave
them but during the night. Pick
up in baskets',, and haul to fhe
nlaceof storage without remov
ing from these baskets. Do riot
use sacks for containers as they
allow many of the potatoes to be
broken and bruised. At . the
place of storage sort the potatoes
and grade by removing the very
small ones' and all that are bro
ken or cut.
when larire Quantities are to
be stored a specially constructed
store house is well worth the ex
pense. Almost any outbuilding,
however, can be used successful
lv Nail Rtrios over the cracks
so as to make the building fairly
tight. Near the center of the
room put in a small stove that
will hold fire well, to heat tne
room.
For a room of ordinary size,
two or three doors, iu Dy io
inches, near the top and the
same number at the bottom oi
the room will provide the proper
ventilation. These should De
fiv oa thot thev will oDen and
llAVVi Wcw f-iv ' '
close easily and tightly.
Some use bushel crates made
of slats to hold the potatoes and
stack them one on top of the
other. Others prefer to make
small slatted bins. The object
is to secure a thorough circula
tion nf air through the potatoes.
The bins should be made so that
they will be three or four inches
from the floor and the same dis
tance from the walls of the
building. Two by fours nailed
to the floor and walls will give
good ventilating space. The
coming siats are easily nailed to them,
and M. leaving about an inch space be:
is now twppn each. The most success-
in fni hina are not more than five
M lb W 1 1 1A
THIS IS TANLAC WEEK And over Eight Thousand Tanlac Stores Will Join in
Celebrating The Second Anniversary of Its wondenui saie r ame oi wicuiv
Medicine Spread's over Whole Nation Like Great Tidal Wave and it is Now Sold
from Coast to Coast.
f the leading dealers of the COUntlT. who are
inlS 13 XauiaC wcci uu uvbi cijuv w- - - o - J $
agents for Tanlac will join in celebrating the second anniversary of the greatest sellingf medicine oi
all time. , ' - ; ' . ' ' ' . .. . . . ' a t
Everybody has heard of Tanlac and the wonders it has accomplished. uveryDooy naa
heard of how hundreds of thousands of suffering men and women have been restored to health and
happiness by its use. . ; : . v , , . . ul m;ii,v0
From coast to coast and from Uulf to the ureat LaKes laniac is Known auu uwuwicu.
have taken it and havp pronounced it the greatest, medicine that has ever been given to L the people.
No matter where you go Tanlac is a household word and it is now unquestionably the most widely
talked of medicine m the world today.' ' .--,, .'- : " , n
Although placed on the market a little less than two years ago over Seven and a Quarter
Million: bottles have been sold, and its record as a seller has probably never been equalled m the
history of this country. ' . ' ... ... .'.'!,,,,...
In six Southern states alone, Tennessee, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi and Arkansas,
Tanlac is now selling at the phenomenal rate of over a million bottles per year and the demand is
constantly increasing. Through the Atlanta office over eighty car loads have been sold abd distribu
ted since last October. ' .. .. lSa
Tanlac dealers in practically all the larger cities of the south are now ouying il .
and right here in your home town, ,
W. E. BEARDEN
Has Sold Since February 26, 1916
360 BOTTLES
If you want to know more about Tanlac just
ask this well known firm! They will tell you
it has not only proven the greatest seller but
that it has given the best satisfaction of any
medicine they have ever sold and that they are
today belling more Tanlac than any other six
medicines nut together. They will also tell you
of scores of people right in your own community
who have been benefited by its use. ask your
neighbors about it and they will tell you the
same thing. 1 '
Tanlac is composed entirely of roots, barks
and herbs and contains no mineral or harmful
drugs as do many other medicines. The in-
medien e ements whicn maKe
Tanlac is Sold in Okolona Excusively by W. E. Bearden
Mississippi National Guard Ke-
cruiting Continues
Ifch signer desires to borrow, various parts of the state, and a f eet square and' four or rive oeep.
ha estimate value of the security word of warning is being sent Before placing the potatoes in
.i. -a U foMnrir in ...j. i T A fl Hom-aii the I a. u nai all the vent.ila-
ilwhVhthe association desires to the new horticulturist who has tors, build a fire and dry the
I . i ; nmaanal xl 4.nLn. im Viii Hntioa in I J.,, tVni.-noprilr Vlne
! QO Dusinesss, iiuw ws iwui recently unveii v.... nuuse uuv uiviuugui;.
V v li i. I . ...... . . . j- 11.. a. u:
'Aare to be used by eacn applicant, agricultural extension wu the potatoes careiuny in
lnd such other details as the here. Mr. Herron states that it so ag to prevent bruising. Dur-
lAianV fnrms indicate: ia nnt. advisable to set trees at 5nor the first ten or fifteen days
The annlication for a charter this time. A month or six weeks ieave all the ventilators open
1 . A- 1 I . i "til . -f!f -1 1.1 I . . .1 a i
iQuino- heen signed must ue frnm this date will be sumcienuy anfi. keen tne temperature uc
HUI D I V . I
J fvknowledged before a notary earlv to begin planting, as trees tween 85 and 95 degrees Fahren
J Lwi; n rthor niialified officer. Lt Ancr rieremher and Janua- I ViaJt Tt will he necessary to
K IUUI1V, VI V I IOCb UUllUfi I Ulb. W .....
0 .$he loan committee then makes ry are usually -the most success- have a thermometer in the stor
.-nwootio-atinn of the lands in- i ' loo-e hnnse. The constant circu-
,i i,o miv.wB- iui. i - ,
m ' i i Ai.. nnnvt with I t : 4.V.:?. nnntinn ' tn the I ti.:. .( USa nmom mi will leave
t, on ven anu uica iw icwm in lssuiiiii una wuuuu w muuu ui una noi'" .......
f the secretary -treasurer of the farmers, Mr. Herron points out the potatoes perfectly, dry. The
foundation.' The secretary then that in order to piace their trees' heat should now be discontinued
v i r- i I ... .i x I . m . j ! a
,isends to the Federal ijanu uanK on the market at tne present and some ot tne ventilators iwa
. Hof the district this report with time,' the nurserymen have to e(j. . Keep the temperature be
I tho nrtWes of association and Ltrin the leaves from the plant tween 55 and 60 degrees if pos
r i . . ii i .
A "strinned" tree is never as sible. This can be controuea to
otrnnff as one which has lost its L large extent by ventilation
foliage naturally. Not only is If the weather is warm Keep tne
i t
I 'the affidavit covering the follow
! ring facts: the loan desired, the
! sL t.: .t 4-Uis anA tuhother
1 Lr owned or to be purchased, the wnnd waterv and . immature ventilators closed during the day
i 'when the loan is to be granted. L,t the tins, which causes it to an(j open at .night If the
I. These three things articles of wither up and die, but as the weather is cold, close them at
association, affidavit, and report ieaves are' the parts of the plant njght and open them during the
' )t the loan committee must be that manufacture its food, when warm part of the day.. If it be-
Hfiled with the Federal Bank be- these are stripped early the COmes damp in the . storehouse
) V fore it can open up the official pant, which stores a large part dry out for a few hours with a
-hnsiness connections wiui nc of , to food late m tne ian may
flRRociation. The land bank will fan to store up a sufficient food
1 -'.ii. .nil on aorent to examine I B.mn1 t loon It rrrnwintr nntil
1 'into the representations made in roots become established next
1 nnil if fnnnd I
. "the application, . en "
sa isfactory, a charter wiU De
granted. ....
Only borrowers are uiemucio
of the loan associations and they
tote stivlt "to the extent of five
'rcent'of Ihe loans secured; the
Un association takes' the money
spring.
CASTQRIA
' For Infante and, Ch'fldxea , " ?.
In Us FcrOverSOYesrs
"thus secured arid invests m stock
Alwrnr btn
Signatur of
lir.tle fire, closing the Dpttom
..nt;iotnrs nnd leaving the top
nnes open.
If the storehouse is being usea
the second time it should be dis
infected before the potatoes are
placed in itr Either a good coat
. . - .
of ordinary whitewash or a spray
made of one pint of faraalin to
80 gallons of water will be effec
tive. Leonard G. . Herron, Ex
tension Horticulturist,' Mississip
pi A. &. M. College.
Tanlac come from remote sections of the earth
-the Alps, Pyrenees, Russian Asia, Jamaica,
Europe, Brazil, West Indies, Mountain States
near the Rocky Mountains, Asia Minor, Persia,
India, Mexico, Columbia and Peru, contribute
the principal propreties of the preparation.
Tanlac aids the natural digestive process
through its prompt though gently corrective
action; bodily nourishment is derived through
the proper assimilation of wholesome food. , If
you are weak, run-down and debilitated and
need a good tonic and system purifier try Tan
lac, and you will add your testimonial to the
thousands of others who have been restored to
health by its use.
Greenwood, Miss., Oct. 20.
Major W. C. O'Ferrall, the
senior recruiting officer of the
State of Mississippi, .who has
been stationed in this city for
the past three months, advises
that since the Mississippi Regi
ment composed of 1300 men en
trained for the border on Oct.
18th, a false impression appears
to prevail in certain sections ot
the State that National Guard
recruiting would be discontinued
and that such reports are liable
to retard the work.
Major O'Ferrall is in personal
charge of the recruiting Station
at Greenwood and his jurisdic
tion extends over the stations at
Hattiesburg and Tupelo, which
covers the entire btate. rive
hundred (500) more men are
"" '
wanted immediately and recruit
ing officers are being sent ou
from these stations to visit al
important towns. Major O'Fer-
relland enlisted men have re
cruited nearly one hundred (100)
men at Greenwood within the
past three months all of whom
have been sent to the front ...
The Mississippi Regiment
which left Mobolization Camp
Jackson in three divisions over
the Illinois Central Railroad on
Oct 18th, has been the recipient
nf much praise from the public
T r . . . i i ,
and from - the . officers on the!
border. The ; Illinois Central
Railroad did themselves proud
in handlincr the " trains." The
wagons and field equipment were
placed next to tne engine, iney
. .... i
came the kitcnen cars painusu
olive drab, and letters white,
which were especially construct
ed for the service regular pullman
sleepers completed the conven
ience of the entrained troops.,
In our interview with Major
O'Ferrall he became enthusiastic
about the possibilities of soldier
life. He is emphatic in his
assertion that young men can
secure military training and
education with the army that it
would take years . in college and
hundreds of dollars to secure
The climate conditions along
the border and in Northern
Mexico make it an ideal place to
soend the winter," said the
Mninr -"romincr in contact with
the Mexicans and learning to
speak their language, familiariz
in o- one self with the habits and
conditions of the people is
great education itself."
The recruits are paid from the
time they are accepted, also
their transportation, board and
lodging and wearing appearel
are furnished free.
Now is the time for all young
men to enlist to see real soldier
life on the border. It is a great
opportunity to see the western
country, get a military as well as
educational training and at
the same time make money and
start in life. a
Captain John A. Hammond is
in charge of the Tupelo station.
City Conveniences
Now Used m Country
City conveniences in the coun
try may have been looked upon
as a dream at one time, but
along with other dreams of even
such things as submarines and
aeroplanes, it has become a re
ality.
Not only is it possible to have
city conveniences m the tarm
home, but such things are now
looked upon as necessities. All
good farmers have been looking
forward to the time when they
could have hot and cold running
water in their kitchens and bath
rooms, and have only been held
back by the cost As this ob
stacle has been greatly reduced
hundreds of Mississippi farmers
are now realizing their hopes
and installing water works in
their homes.
Agricultural engineers of Miss
issippi A. and M. College have
designed four systems of farm
water works, ranging in price
from $18.40 to $128.80, and
will supply any one of the hun
dred thousand farm homes with
complete plans and bills of mat
erial for putting in these sys
tems. - During Mississippi Water
Works Week, which will be from
November 12th. to 18th, meet
ings will.be held in every county
in the state, and plans and ad
vice given to all who want city
conveniences in the country. .
, Children Cry;
; FOR FLETCHER'S
CASTOR I A
Children Cry
FOR FLETCHER'S
OA5TORIA
1 1 ft WeTegfralJnd iBank.,.vlTie
