HOME EDITION
WEATHBh rt RECAST.
KI Paso and wft Texu. fair. New
Mexico, fair, warmer. Arizona, fair,
war Titer.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
SINGLE COPY FIVE CENTS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. THURSDAY EVENING. OCTOBER 26. 1916.
r-ELIVERED ANYWIIF.RC c A MONTH
FIGHT
intuai Unity
TODAY'S PRICES
' ' r t-- sr-itr - - 1.. - r
' 'at . Mexican goi.i AS'--lTc.
bar silver. H. i II.
Hi . opjtr. $27 0; grains
r iiesttK-k steady, stocks irregular
M
GOES TO
? ILLA
Wilson Ma
lea r or bp
i
Tfiprnnin
r I S D I IS B 5 1 B Eg 1
Ry it. s. ;
fa? E W fl W
J- !
Boer General Who
Died Back East
Declares Greater Accom
plishments Lie Ahead Of
i TT D i
country i nan in r an.
'AnnRFSSF.S CROWD
IN CINCINNATI, O.
President's Plea Is For Con
tinuation of the Program
Undertaken By Him.
TV TVV HTT Vhin lift "fi FrPSl-
t "Wilson, speaking at Clnclrs
j.U s reception to him at the
- tnHov iit-t-i i
ncr for "apiritual unity" on the
tn T- - r for tr-eater work ahead of
t e r -r
cs em Wils n. n his final middle
-weat.r- -wing of campaign, came
t
FREKH DESTROY
GERMAN EFFORT
Accomplishment of Five
Months at Verdun Is Un
done in a Few Hours.
-o
! ASS ERT5 ISM
MEN HELD BY !
SERBS DIE I
BRUTA
CARNIVAL FUN TO REIGN TONIGHT
AS FITTING GLDSETO EXPOSITION
With the French Army at Verdun,
fiance. Oct. 26. In their rush for
ward at Verdun, the French in about
-ix hours undid all the efforts which
the Germans had spent six months and
n ilf a i'lli'n men in accomplishing. )
i: was tt' lun'Ticent victory lor me
eneh i'-nis.
The eif'i' to give the Krench
f re dc: "f movement around Verdun,
permit"' ,- them to prepare for a fur- j
i or . tMc. hi n the oi'i
! c. a' 'lie -anie unie den!
r,"- rl'.w ivh. n the Gertn.n- fiought
he Krtn l! striking force .- entirely
--emlli.r in the Smme i-iin The
.tory .i lei J.aves Fort Y.i.i now m
'imr-n ham'.-. perilliousK open tn at-
ta k
Sucji a brilliant sueces-
time wa tim epecten
with 116 cases which are termed vio-
GfD. W. D. njman, who fought iu
the Boer war and
to (
.nr
ill tc-la tor the first time i his people In Mexico. wa of hi
i so short
, 'i In thi
Ani,,i.i.i' when tilt or-n I lor
The offinsive was given at 11 "'J oclock.
i the morniti-' For a Connie or nays t iatlons of international law and de- 1
LtUruV'h.Vb'rf'o0" Sfe most'ex- j to have been committed by conn- j
treme seerity Monday the Germans I tries at war with Austria-Hungary. (
opened with every available 1t'ry' Much space is devoted In the official ',
believing a r ii-inii ,t i r-
I w delivi rea. .oi. suisie - .
rol.ml, rd kodic of ; stirred. . . . . ! ",ent or Austro-Hunganan prisoners.
Ttieeda-v -it dawn a iresn unimuv
i.v ih- Trench brought only
RY P.J. PRKtIILI
CARNIVAL, night at the Interna
tional Soil Products exposition to
night, with its gaiety and laughter
and confetti and fun and dancing and
music and everything that (toes to
jnakv up the true, reckless carnival
spirit promises to pack the grounds
and buildings of the exposition as they
never have been packed before. It will
bring the big exposition to an end.
To celebrate the bountiful harvests,
when the labor of the fields was done,
and the crops stored, the Greeks gave
themselves up to the relaxatin of
pleasure. One night was given tip to
feasting, dancing and music
Even as the Greek, of old. the people
of El I'aso are going to celebrate at the
j exposition grounds tonight.
! But the people of KI I'aso have sot
: something on the ancient Greeks.
1 Thy have amusements the Greeks
RERUN. Germany, Oct. 2l Tho ' reer 'dreamed ot The have one of the
, . . I finest bands on the continent for their
Austro-Hunganan foreign office
has published a red book dealing
Government Issues a Book
Dealing With Alleged
Violations Of Law.
116 VIOLATIONS OF
LAW ARE CITED
rtunityis:) eeJs By Nations Other
n a stun- i J
Than Seroia Are Cited
By Austria-Hungary.
music. They have amusements in the
concessions of the Patio that would
have opened the eyes of the Greeks.
They can go to the exposition and even
win a duck, if they're lucky, by throw
ing a ball in a keg surely the Greeks
rever thought of that!
They have dances the ancients could
r.ot even imagine. tYho are fun bent
would give up the Mrs. Vernon Castle's
"London Taps." the fox trot of the min
ute: or the one-step, or even the now
ancient tango, for the classic dances of
the Greeks? Out on the Patio dance
platform, you'll see tonight dances that
you'll think express the carnival spirit
better by far than the dances of the
Greeks!
And confetti? TVho ever heard of an
ancient Greek, in carnival time or any
ether time, throwing confetti? Surely
this is another advantage of the mod
em carnival!
The Greeks may have started the first
soil products exposition carnival, but
it takes the people of El Paso to show
'em a real, honest-to-goodness good
time night!
LRFiTFUl
U L n I L II
DEFENCE WOULD III. S. FORGES TO
CLEAR GOPELAND! STAY IN ME
1- s a.Trriinist' atiou. Arriving here death In Pennsyltanla reaehed CI l'a-aii a feeble rplv. the Germans appar-n
at It -0 a m.. he w s met by a cheer- yesterday. I not wanHnB to wastt- .
Irg "tovtj and a l-rge reception com- j
tee at the unon station and was
-me (Mv tatcen y suiomuinif '
thro'j the streets, thronged with
pec"? .e a hotel.
Republican loiliir It INolU
TVje p-esidcnt's prograun Included
I. ir sicerhes. a roeeptiofl. a luncheon,
a. d - -.ei and an automobile ride. Ar
ra.rs. runts for Ms entertainment were
XDri bv the manarUan dty cluh.
! r Gorge TtiejtTK. a iiefrmnrcaH,
B"-ajs or Ihe aeterininea iisni. r
b
wa
".a'l'
n . i Ieotorai votes oetng "
, arties, adniinlstratioB officials
r- j re spirit of Mr Wilson's re
ith esprcal attintion. Thev
i lhenwKPs as w-ll pleased.
5 s large foreign-born popu-
td. d interest to hts visit.
MrR. nlUon 1 lIonorel.
- .icon wis madf an honorary
..f the Woman s City clun.
fcW 'I U ' Cl 1.1 IHTl f-
jTo wav here this morninp. Mr
ft'( - was greeted by large crowds ai
bal' - dozen Ohio towns through which
CLA1 STEAMER
AIDIiGJ-OOATS
Letters Intercepted by Brit
ish Taken to Indicate
"Unneutral Activities.
London. Bag-. Oct. S. No further
disclosures were made officially today
' iloi-ument to alleged atrocious treat
J ment of
I by the Servians, it is stated that of a
i
ntly total number of 63.006 ustro-Hun-
on. ; garian prisoners in the hands of tho j COUrt XtUleS On JbaW I'Omt
Raised in Trial Resulting
ffl
The French army meanwniie j srbs from 35.000 to 40.00 died in cap
aims, aw.aj-.nii-. , .ii,v
forward. uvity.
ttO German Ieert
Earlv in the day evidence came oi ,
fniln-s of the French fire in the
he torrenU ' of shelte. walked out and
surr5ed before tJUc InOtry struB-K-rn
Suddenly, a boat 11 J f
oclock. the cuirtaia of Freoeli shel
trenches Into flatness ws lifted sHKht
ly and dropped again with the "t-1
precision Just behind the Germans line.
Charge at Chonen Moment.
Officers waited, watches In taiwl.
for the -hosen moment Then me
French infantry, covered with mua
and sand and soaked to the skin, went
. v. , .nn nr th.ir -rw-Hiitlons. Despite
UtCI 1 11 C I " I' " - .J
the ooiiness of the uneven frround.
TORKS IN EGYPT
RAID FOE G!
from Black Murder.
Li
Galveston Texas. Oct. I- When
fourt convened today in me jonn cope- Washington. t. C. Oct. IS. DIs-
land ease, its first action was to pass mtchen reCelved by the state depart-
atant relating to conditions tn northern
Constantinople. Turkey, Oct IS fvia,
London. Eng., Oct i. Turkish troops
last Sunday night surprised the British
camp near Sheikh Saad, on the Tigris
river below Kut-EI-Amara. and pene
M
ircix
Iwimvaaica " ' - v.. . j WUB . nft OOZtneSS Ol l i."a - i-- - -"l ( lO Kill mm. II saia luai inc ui.1 Kai.
regarding two letters intercepted while they rapidly gained the German lines , t rated the British trenches, according two men had been acquitted would bear
wnere iney i num. '." --
wounded, hundreds of Germans who,
half dazed, mostly surrendered after
slight rUistance.
Tbiaumont Taken Early.
The first work thus taken was the
Haudremont quarries, from which the
V. r. .BM IS 1111 U Tl I III V. 1 II V. 1 1 1 1 .
lUISUUIVIIl AC' I
on an. objection entered By tne stats
Wednesday to the introductrtur of thu
JudGnmntvof district court of Harrison
county In the cases of Harry Winn and
Frank CLeary. of Marshall, acquitting
them of the killing of Win. Black.
Th defence sought, it said, to In
troduce the tudements as asrainst any
KBTn.D'5J -IT.w " border raM were committeed.
ii7iT , result of a consDlraev I Villa's activities, coupled . with ugly
i to kill him. It said that the tact mat
in transit from the Lnited States to
Germany, relating to the activities of
the steamer Willehad which was
described as acting as a telegraph sta-
T if m fnr fmun suhmn rtnK
h; passed He apgearea o i i. """ . 0n of the letters was signed by a
...i hnk hands with as many man
. .- ; nossible, exchanged laugh-
t-r
to :
W
tie
ma
f.re
f
c w
- .rV.- and tlianki-d the crowos
- -.g out in such large numbers
o h
Tl Ilnon Compliments Ohio.
- PiK-hta. extemling "a cordial
. ai the chamber of commerce.
!. pn.ple of Cicmnati are among
. s' i oval in th- nation
, ..... jf t iei-! strance in Cn-
because so manv of my earlier
rc-cl.ertions are .-oiniected with this
CT-c3t stJte. ' responded the president.
-Sen . is'i M.eaking. there are a great
tl ires OhK. remini one m
r--tnrf of mencan life. There-
e-. 1 comt in Ohio, some oi mo
he histor of menca gets In
There is no zest in monopoly.
1 xest is to feel that you are a
. trreat . on pany of people
-r.- hurr ! liberty
e Mnt Form a Team.
ui ha- t'.t task of believing
-t'f what he would have the
.. :.; l.el" m ihe United States
hi- tasks . r. to be much greater
f'.lure.
-. .ie not to m-it-e a ti-am or our--n.!
i.ull !he irreat chariot in
i. e- the lia'ue of liberty."
' the pre-nleiii's address sug
. irvinir forward of the poli
t ihe present administration
-ated
Capt. Jachens of the Willehad. inform
ing his sister the ship was acting on a
mission for the fatherland.
Ship's Wireless Sealed.
Washington, D. C, Oct. 86. Inquiries
here today regarding the steamer
; Willehad's activities revealed that the
ship's wireless has been constantly
sealed and that she could Hot be act
ing as a telegraph station for sub-marineo.
to the official statement issued today ; KErS.? The acSon
by the Turkish war office. After cap- ( of another jury should not be permitted
turing a quantity of arms and snpplies, j to influence the action of this jury,
the statement adds, the Turks returned i Th ara,e'tedC"wednesday after-
to their own positions. The text reads:
"Tigris front: We carried out a sur
prise attack Sunday evening against
the British encampment in the neigh-
.1 .11. 11 : n t n linnrtWiilM KWeen.
Willehad's activities, and the other by ; nTi" fhe atticlSg wives
rolled irreslstlDiy lorwara mrounu i ..urnooa oi mwh saan. wnen our troops
village and the ion oi iuauj,, penetrated the enemy trenches and
wnicn were enartwn jui -."" I turned victorious after i..nin,in
at oclock in the evening and their j quaIltitT of armg and n,aterja,
'.Hearst Ranch Is Scene Of
Skirmish; Rebels Caught
To Be Executed.
0ZUNA LEADS MEN
TO SANTA YSABEL
Official Version Of Recent
Fighting Says Only the
Vanguard Beaten.
GEX. CAKL0S OZUNA. a vaaeuari
or his forees havins been attack -'
last week by YiUistas. baTno..
'1.1. I310 flun,n to Santa Ysab
I hihuahua, and a prepared to rive ba
tin to Francisco Villa and h band
J?"3:. aecordinC to El Democrats, tb
hnf V'lft. newspaper of Chilua
2.ty' .w,htch reached the bord--Thursday
w.th the first official versil .
oi recent fishting wet of the Chihuu
nua capital.
five&ry' a? ia H democrat,
lixes the ereater part of the ,t ,
Ozupa's column left Chihoahaa City la
Friday, the article states. This' rai
pwrd proceeded to Santa Taabel lea
im- a rear ffuard at Palomas, IS mile
from Chihaahna City. The main column
of Ozuna s comraand did not leave Chi
huahua City until Saturday raornin"-ac
cordinjr tp th account, and the fiht-
w?s between the vanjruard and the
ilia forces, it states.
Attack on Kear Guard.
An attack was -
as menacing xne tie tacio government. & , . T. - , . , . - w '.'
control of the whole northern country. I . - "I1 had been left at Palomas
The Mexican embassy here claims 1 al Saturday mornin". Thia rear
Villa has but a few hundred poorly . euard marched to Santa Ysabel the ar
equipped men. but dispatches from count states, where it joined the mam
army commanders on the border tell body of the vanmmrrl Tw;,. i 7 r V
of VIlU s campfires beln- visible from ! 3 p" " r .Winn- the fiht
Chihuahua aty and report Gen. Tre- SS. al s. Jlartin Lopez, one of
vino plentifully supplied with men but I ua 3 ehiels, was killed. An attack
r ammunition. i " me oy tne villa forces upon the
Villa Openly Wage War. anzuara at anta Ysabel y,e bandits
Increase in Disorders Weak
ens Possibility for With
drawal Agreement.
Ily SSOCIATED PRESS.
Mexico have decreased any hope for the
early withdrawal ot Gen. Pershing's
troops from Chihuahua and the return
of national guard divisions from the
border. Villa's new ascendancy as a
mllitnrv liud, is enmmanriinfr more
! attention than at any time since the
rumors concerning the stability of Gen.
Carranza's regime, are regarded here
as menacing the de facto government's
to ' e
In
llnnv PrlMDfni Taken.
Nightfall brought only a slight ces-
l aatton from me aruuery. wnuse u"i
lighted up tne now clear stty. .uunb
the field tracks, pitted with shell holes,
great batches of prisoners were es
corted to the rear. Constant addi
tions are being made hourly to th
total of captured which comprises Itto
officers. Many are found cowering in
shell holes until detachments of the
French cleared up the battlefield.
AT MIAMI- WH F RFrflVFR i Gn. Joffre witnessed the launching
mirUni, WILL. KtLUVEK , . attack out a8 SOon as he saw
Miami. Ariz., Oct. SS. Jay W. Boyd everything progressing well, he hurrici
away.
AVIATOR FALLS 100 FEET
gc I
r :
hi--
had a narrow escape from death in the
falling of his biplane about 16e feet,
shortly after he had started on a flight.
He flew into a whirlwind that threw
r.." "n na aasnea it Petrograd. P.uesla. Oct. ISl Capture
" "" "." i.v the Russians of the town of Bllar,
oouia nave saven nimseir nan ne cnosen : . - .. . . . t , j
, , , , . - i in rersia. Durinntst u imuimwu. -. .
to drop in a field where a large num- aui today. The war office
ber of persons had gathered, but he rivs-
Kucceeaeo in airectmg tne machine to p...... our detachments, as a re
IILSI.! IlUl'OllT CAPTlItK
OP A TO I 1
"Dobrudla: Our troonk. with those
of our allies, continued their pursuit
today of the defeated enemv and en
lered Tchernavoda "
ROSSIAIIARGE
FAILS DNDER FIRE
noon. Only five witnesses had been
examined and Sadie Black, the adopted
"l"B"le.Tw I? ... .nnmw nw. I " of ammunition.
night. The state's attorneys said she Though the accuracy of some of the , beins in command of Villa personall
. ..IJ V.-. a iclTnM inr T n m III re l intunuaiivu ouuuaicu iw uaaa.. u.(
re- I buYi 5eorge Bell. Jr.. at EI Paso by refu
sc; ftr Ulliuvi uj v uuamk
i wireless to
such an extent that no one was struck, j sult of a stubborn battle, occupied the
BONDS REGISTERED GAIN
$7,628,249 DURING ifcAK
Tn . Oct IC. During the fis
. MriniK August 31. 191. there
-T.red in the controler"s de
i o.MI in bonds, accord
. ir.s eomplled by this depart
h is an increase of J7.S28.243
. ,.'evious year, or approxi
, increase of 35 percent. Of
registered .152,M were
i $1,951,721 levee district
. 4 mi "SI jelty bonds- J1.SSS.M0
i T school diMriel Donas.
Three of the aviator's ribs were broken.
as well as his collarbone, but it is ex
pected that he will be out of the hos
pital in a few davs.
te
MEXICANS HOLD UP MINE
OFFICIAL; ARE THWARTED
Globe. Ariz.. Oct. 2S. K. F. Hlatt.
secretary of the Copper Springs Mining
conxan. with the payroll of his mine,
was stopped three miles from Miami, on
the Gibson road, by two mounted
Mexicans, who attempted to hold him
up. Hiatt was accompanied oy Capt. E.
i. Tice. Capt. Tice suspected the in-
town of BUar. normwest oi namaaan. ;
They took a number of prisoners and (
captured two cannon." j
Here's a Man Who Proves
He Has Tooth For Whisky
j Herlm. Germany, Oi
'MIM V j Sayville.) Russian battalions Wednes
day e eninp made an advance without
artillen pieparation against the Ger
man positions to the west of Lutsk, In
Volhnia. says today's statement, but
the storming Russian waves broke
down under the German artillery.
Field marshal von Xackensen is pro
gressing with bis operations against
the Russian-Rumanian armies in Do
brudja. the war office announced. The
bride over the Danube has been blown
up by the Rumanians, the announce
ment states.
-n . , , ; - - ii i i .-ouaii v.
Ihe fiht lasted two hom-a and har
received no reraforcements from tb
main column, the Carranza commands
returned to Paloraas as Villa was cet
ting reinforcements hourly.
T,Anotlier riit at Palomas.
At laloraa?. another croup of bandit
appeared and attacked the retreatm
yansuard. which succeeded in breakirjr
throush. although pursued by the YilU
troops to Salas. 12 miles from rhihua
nua tjity. In the meantime. Gen. Ozuna a
column had proeeeded on military trau -to
Fresno Saturday, where the mairt
eolumn detrained, the trains bein" sen
back to Chihuahua Cltv to prevent their
capture, the official version states.
Retreat to Chuviscar.
VILLISTAS DEMAND U. S. " Sa aA" VZfSf? FA
TROOPS LEAVE. REPORT joined the min : .ri" v"
lecture. . - ' . : imi k.Ti7c: jir"""' "!
Judge Bngg-s upheld "at the time," Columbus. N. M.. Oct ZY"- r(i .
however the contention of attorneys for dits. operating near Namiquipa. Mex, I l A then ordered the forces to
the Ptate that no ground had been laid only -5 miles south of the American . retire to tTiuvisear. just outside of Chi
for the introduction of the oath. j expedition's southern outpost, have de- nuahua City, in order to reorganize his
Reflection on foment.. manuea tne snorieninK ui n.c .uiewuut , column. lie sent his wounded into tin.
m. ... .w , .. : . i iwwin litiA and a z-rriual evacuation of , . . . . 'vuu HI LO tne
l ne ueience inrn buiuuhihcu nv n
nesses who had attended the lecture
given oy William Black in Marshall on
lnL "J?"1 'r'if .!.. A force of 500 Carranxa troops is
KnlclitK Oath Not Admitted.
The defence began its case with an
attempt to introduce as evidence of
what purported to be an authentic copy
of the fourth degree oath of the
Jvnights of Columbus to refute the au
thority of the circular introduced in
vidence Tuesday as having been circu
lated hv Clarence F. Hall. Black's busi-
i ness agent. Sam J. Williams, of Gal
veston, was sworn in as a wiiness. uui
after he had stated that he was a
fourth ilezree member of the organiza-
j tion and familiar with the oath taken,
j the state objected.
1 Attorneys Mart Royston and James B.
j Stubbs contended that the oath should
he admitted as evidence as reiuung uie
oath circulated by Black, which, they
aaid, was "false and scurrilous" and as
showing the motive of Copeland in go
ng to Black to protest against anouier
ment open to some question, it is ap.
parent that Villa is openly and in
force waging war against the de facto
government.
Reports received here by those In
touch with the Legalista movement say
Villa has pledged himself to leave Mex
ico on the elimination of Carranza.
Owlns to internal political conditions
In Mexico. Gen. Obregon is said per
sonally to control most of what am
munition Is available.
In respect to Villa's latest opera
tions, state department officials be
ll' ve the presence of Gen. Pershing's
forces in Mexico has had much to do
with keeping the fighting away from
the border.
i troon line and a graauai evacuation oi ..;,. .i , ; "
I Mexican territory by the Unuited States ' . "L l"ay evening
Americans coming to tne Doraer i - -m ucb. inriino, air-
army,
' reported to be encamped at El Valle,
, between the American field head
' quarters and the extreme outpost point
of the American line. These de facto
forces are said to be well equipped and
parent effort to apprehend the ma . las'as ij ramies and 15 miles west of
bandits operating in the vicinity of
Namiquipa, the report from the interior
states.
bo
1-
P
Si
be
11
oitv bond-- 3I.s:.zue inoe--.
hool dis'rut bon.ls. J2.1S3.
v bonds. J1.1X6.31.'. common
iriet bonds; $2,163,844 county
rfeTATE EXPENDITURES FOR
YEAR SHOW HEAVY INCREASE j
A,s - Tex.. Oct . Kxpendltures '
of e s jte L-overnment for this fiscal
of MarshalL said
Black declared the convents were more
or less prisons and ought to have gov
ernment inspection. The lecturer, he
added, also made sensational state
ments about the relations of nuns and
Chicago. IlL. Oct. 26. According to GERMANS SHELL NEW FRFNCW i priests and declared he would rather
verdict in the municipal eourt here " fRtfll-n hi, wlfe or mother dead than in :i
Wednesday. Joseph Hen-man has'al rUSIllUMi AI VERDUN convent.
tooth for whisky. Several teeth in p r.., "Did he make a wholesale denuncia-
fact. It was testified that he had sev- Oman's have ceased Vneie T7.e "on if tbe nun8r a8ked ""O"1
eral of his teeth nulled out. extracted 1 rf,?!1 i,.aTe..cea8e,, J"f'p . counter i Beard.
. '-f"- ""-yet.ea ik m- --- . . ..... - A . . tn. . -'"" - . lojowing tne -y,s. nearlv all." replied the witness.
tent or tne Mexicans and covered them " e wm sent to the house of hi ,15,", .1" Tuesday's drive Walt, r Scott gave testimony similar
w.th his revolver just as they were pro- : " 'Ji- "? w"f? a-.!. i nich ".""ted in the recapture of Fort , ub'i He said that BUck de-
flnHnir ihir u-A-a winm U'Kon tliAV "I I CCIIUII uh i Miimiaiui - j LfUaUmoni nflfl hn -adirin Z - 1 . . ....... i v t
- ntrv... "l . 1 - ainj jk inc . 1 r-Ai nliirinir III naiflrtPflS n la nt naai r .au. . I 7.UCU. X lUUII tu .M . . -
that they had been balked, the Mexi- wnom nejaiie.. io pa. j rrench lines along a wide front in this ! been shot several times, had been in a Klias Calles. military governor of the Skirmioh occurred on the cattle
, 5 asnM ; flit ITU I m FOUR INIIIRFn ThiV-h are rtee,,". k,- V ,?s,,l,,on!!.., hospital sewral times and expected state or nora. arrived here today en . fucu oi re. ihoebe Hearst and the
" ' IN BISBEE AUTO ACCIDENTS 1 l"Z'l'2"J!"LrT ! t --7", fr capeud.
RAILROAD FILES SUIT FOR . " . : I h." V. in. fr..r !??; I The defence used one of the states
er wnich he reioined his eolumn and
in oreeuea west toward hanta YsabeL
Carrancistas Win at Hearst Ranch.
A ficht between Cararnza troopx.
commanded by Colonel Maximo
Jlarquez. and Villa llita
curred at Babicora. 75 miles south of
' ""I""' anu is miles west of
Aatniquipa. Wednesday raomini: at 9
oclock in which the Villa bandits were
defeated and four prisoners taken, a
roeseagre received by General Francisco
ON WAY TO MEXICO CITY I were not given in the message, whicl.
Oct. 2. Gen. Plutarco ' u'2?,v s,e? .several were killed.
GEN. CALLES IS AT BORDER
ye:r
t .
r n 1
c' $
o
$-
b.
ttor-
f 1 I r- u
t
1 1
ueust 31. amounted to
tate funds, as disclosed
f -'in s compiled for the an
r ..f the controler. an increase
- ..er the previous year. Out
-.' -al revenue fund a total of
.is expended. leaving a
t $914,186. which automatl
erted to the state treasury.
- ase in expenditures is due
1 tne construction of addi-
.1 builcungs and iraproveraents in
y cf 1he state institutions.
BO IS ACCIDENTALLY
led m his 1 town very shortly. Now considering
--a riz.. Oct. 26. Villa Nuva, the matter is a committee appointed 3t
a;c tt was accidentally killed by ' a late meeting, embracing B. M. Fuqua
h ! e with whom he had been G. A. Marsh. B. B. Brown. E. S. Osborne
a" y r.g a target with a small rifle. and J. B. Flanagan. This committee is
T 'j I e - finally shot at a chicken. ; compiling data concerning the cost in
T c l et passed through the fowl, j come and advantages of municipal gov
g ". in a rock and then passed ernment and will report at an early
tbrr . s ... , boy's head. date.
REFUND OF EXCESS TAXES gle 24 hours, one man was kill.d.
. . . - . 1 other seriously injured and thn e moie
Tucson. Anx. ejet 26. The Southern J or Wss nurt bv automobile accidents in
Pacifie Railroad company has filed suit . tlli8 vicinity. Frank Campbell, age l
for a refund of taxes in excess of limi- ! .,2 ig d.ad. Hls motorcycle skidded in
tion by the state law of le percent in- ,OOPe dirt and hit a ror)Si throwing him '
crease on yearly assessments. Here the neadlong. while traveling about
V. lt B,ven' WU amount to about ' mlles an honr. He was an employe f
$4. covering two years. The com- j the shattuck mine. Hanv Hendeison.
pany also has protested its taxes on the j aged lg son of a shift nOF in ,. Ho.
same basis in -iuma and Graham coun- brook mine- was tIushe,i n.l.r an
!. ibU.t 11 18 under,,t001 tht the local . overturning automobil. lh..t h id I., en
Milt is to serve as a test. struck by a large tonrine . ..r T'..
third accident was when two lurht car-,
one of them loaded with ;i ea-e- of
whisky, collided In Low. 11 Hoth c.is
BCLUftlfc inCUKfUKAltlJ ' were badly smashed, but the liquor was
intact when transferred hurriedly to
another car and started for the aorder.
I th.
i us
the French
such that
is mom' ii-
Parker. Ariz., Oct 26. It is probable
mat rirKer win ne incorporated as
a lit lire b
t.-iriK p rtwi
RUMANIANS SEIZE MOUNT
ON TRANSYLVANIAN FRONT
Bucharest. Rumania. Oct '6. The
rapture ! (he Rumanians of Mount
Kerekhar.is on the Transylvanian front,
south of Itira. was announced todav
1. the .ii office In the Oltuz valley,
fmhtin ii.ntinues beyond the Ruma
nian froniu r
The MiMro-German forces now have
been il.i.-. n . 1 1 h-r. bevond tht
wi-t.i'i i-..-ii:tr .,, MoI.I.im.! rthe
uortl.ern (.roviucc of Uu.nanial today's
statement says. Their losses were verv
heavy.
t witnesses
character witness of
Copt land He was John ilerndon.
of Marshall, an undertaker, who took
harge of Black's hod after the shoot
ing "How Ion:. nae ou knonn Cope-
land .
'Twent or
What is hi
order T"
"Good "
Herndon said
:5 years." says Herndon.
reputation for peace and
. . . " , i ... i ;. "OWN axiu me
rwiie w -iu . i ir-i, viiiwhc AwuKiaa. uiiuim are oe ue veil to have been a na'-t
ArSLfciHe iWS? accoB,Pnieo y ni8 b"ml i "f the Villa force reported to be in th-
aCWIe. has asked nermission of I TiS?,t of .Xamk,uipa.
Vnlted States military authorities to',f1.nr "d't" were under command .i
cross tbe border and travel through , -""J-Juan Marrszo. who was capture. b
, American territory on his way to Mexi- the Carranza troops, together with Capt
I co Cit for a conference with Gen. j I'erfecto Lopez and priates Estevari
Carranza. : Cruz and Rafael Amiilar, the messa-.-
It was reported here upon Gen. to Gen. Gonzales standi
Calles' arrival that he brought a large I n T f'f stated.
'sum of money with him which he ob- " " M1"- r will be tried bv
tamed at Magdalena. Sonora.
was a Protestant.
Temperature Important
For Workers, Is Claim;
RECOVER $13,000 STOLEN
I FROM BURROUGHS PAYMASTER
St Louis, Mo.. Oct. 26. Detect!
, here today recovered 13.000 of the $3.-
000 stolen from a paymaster of the Bur
i rougnit Atiuing aiacnine company in ue
I Iroit. August 4.
TCHEH WOD Ritmr.F I . New York. Oct. 2S. To do the best
blown vp ry lUMAMW.s work in the smallest period of time, a
I.ond. n Kmk Oct. L'S A Rome dis- i I person- should work in a temperature
;.:.ti h . thi irele.-s Pref --a.- it i- of trom 59 to 65 degrees, declared Pu .'
- j . r t -. 1 ;r."i l:iihar. t th.i ,tft. r the c E. A Wlnslow, professor of publi.
f i ei...... . -r T. h. i-n . . ..I i I;us- 'i.-.lth at Yale universitj. -who spok.-
" 11 - ii , '.'i" ..i.i. in- n , ii,.l, o e I ..'- W. .lnes.lav at the j-imial ...nvi-i
.' th -1 1...I1H 1.t- .Toil!. . loo ,l tliA Imprinn tithl, lull.
the itumamans. ,,ssch latioiu
court martial and executed in accord
j a nee wrth Gen. Caranza's decree order -j
uiR all bandits to be put to death r
was announced in Juarez.
BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
C'UHL-AIllA CITY. Mex, Oct 25
To El Paso. Tex.. Oct. 26.1 -An
enveloping movement bv Carranza
troops is now under way with santa
Isabel as the objective, it
ington. It is said here no agreement nounced by Gen. Jacinto R. Trerinn to.
can oe irmue until uen. uarranxa nas aa v.
U. S.-MEXICAN CONFEREES
MAY GO TO WASHINGTON
(By Associated Press.)
Atlantic City. N. J.. Oct. 26. It is
now regarded as likely that unless an
C7 11 n cn C T I agreement for border control can be
OhOUla tie jy-Oj Degrees made by the American-Mexican com-
, mlssioners within a few days, the con
ference may be transferred to Wash-
I up by
demonstrated hi? ability to eliminate
j Villa and hi foltow ei
I Mexican oniims-Mo-ier: explain the
-It-i'.ii tnrv .if Oe-n ' irra ia and Obre
i fo juer. t it . - m t mi; to do only
l with the cunstiiutiona assembly soon
1 due to convt ne there.
Who Has Faith
This Koveaent has for it nliiwf th
snrroundinc of the VHIa forees in the
vicinity of Santa Tsabel, 25 miles south
est of here.
Reports received bv Gen. Trevinr
(Continued on Page 9. Column S.
J-in
3 Paso Proves It With Cash: Invest Wisely Now
