he-Marble Hill Press.
Xorrae J51.00 a "STear
Circu.lati.cxi. i.ZC
Vol. 36.
Marble Hill, Missouri, Thursday, October ;
So 20
-
"What do you know
about that a MILD
cigarette that satisfies!
tin Tl
j farm
first ..1;
Chesterfields have done "the irrvvs;rI-' .hr-v
Mtfjjr and yet they arc net ttr". ,v ;
MILDI Chesterfields do for yt:r s.u..u, s ;
bacon and ejus do fr ymir breakLri ixw; .V.
And et Chesterfields arc MIL!) -tru'V the
oint.
No other cigarette cun give you this nexc enjoy
ment (satisfy yet mild) because no cigarette maker
can copy the CknttrfitU blend.
This blend is aa enrird? net? combination of
tobaccos and it und.n bfediv the hioat important
new lbin in cigarette innlan- in 2) year.
t X' v-e
"Git 41 patUgtef tite -:r. :vj r'. r.lTIS.' Y"
CIGAilETTES
fill (Hi I
1
iltt ;.: ur.i- 'a-.iui'h 1: 1 . ..y(, ,
dri. h.i. im-;.;, r ,- f r n
II(k!("' c- -i 1 .t-1 1' ) I! ': '. 1 .,.
t"ll( I- X -I Hill j- I. Ml
dws. : ,,. ,-hm- o! i 1. '. i ; .
V vt rvni.e this i u,iiii,i a , ,
Sep iiei.sjty i.l ()ri-Mlii! fit
health, full. fort Mini leee 11 y r..tl v
t'lM.'l ' I -I) ie'
:ks .J li : r, v.n
Cle.. A Urn, Mo,
-hove article, w Uci itn.-ir-l
I ,.rm Progres. Si. I mn.s
ir:mr. th-Mln r 1, l!l(i, w,,n
in .1 out- x. . t hy il
T '-ui: has ii'ir ri I Uvt s
here w ho v. ill U tiMl (, t.Hr (1f
her S'i i xs ax ii writer. 1'he good.
iO:tim viise advice ciMKmaed la
j the iii" u I 1- eriun'v i otvmendahle.
Ttn Questions for loters
TV u 'jiiiMi.itis fur voicis ti tins r
in H' 1' Cf i.f elef ion day
1 Miy aii' the kings itf
street MijMx'ftinj! Mr Hughes
2 Why mm. the great fiiia'a irtl
iinrf.-u which favor -fulfill t.ink .
in sut-iiMninn for the Federal re
serve sWem.Supirtmg V.r liiiuli"
3 W hy urr ill I114I1 prott-n'l ) v c
lilnliw, i-li-ti v !m pre; the srli-il-iilwi
i.f Hie I'.iyiif-AIilrK'h tiiufl fur
Mr IlitirV
W Ij L.h i-vcry t n uiy i.f Ami-ri-ran
nn.tnihiv fur Mr. H;tc .
5 ii iiri . a'! iiilviWHif of iinri-
I III. 1 r.i-nl luu III !ti.D r Mr
6 W hy iirr ilit-1 ruv ami drCiiuiz
eil jrr.-ci in rvrry wii .n of llie
Uuiii.il M;i(r fur Mr Htiiihes
7 hy arc thrh'Tin-iiif military
cmiM iiiUinn fur Mr Hinilies"
H hy far-very ittliiii-al mii-i 11 Hi
lary Mini iMiurlxiii fur Mr. HurihtV
I ft VMiy every enrmy of ift
irfiinrnHl rHirin for Mr Hurries
111 Vhv i every Imss smf politi
.' l cr.ifter in ilif repiihiir.m irly
:f--r Mr. I Inches'' Thr Bulletin
THE UNIVFRSAL CAR
Don't forget to call and se
new home of the
the
FOR D
He
the most popular Car on earth
Tourine Car $1 U
Roadster $345
Complete line of repairs always
on hand
LUTES & ESTES, Lutesvill . Mo
II
Ml
61
r
hi't-ri opii'ei !.y (h.- Km kefeller
r.iilniiil . ; n.i tre! to t revent the
rati fin 'linn f t Me itT'iir'e tax anieii.l
mert ." -St 1.0'ik Re u'-li '.
Lonuresswan Hensley
Aii)tn; he uiiny (tnij;reuinen
who hue ilulie ei ('itliresSIII8tl
He i (-t- ,,f Misv;iim vicserv ('s siieei.il
mi i mmm
Mrr'f
I urn, .)
C.O!!ltMi.
The ifr nil i u hroken t t list
wr-ck hy a line - 'mwer, vihirh hlietj
the I'isiern- m,i, (mvikK
V . .!. K'liixles has h very sk k
rhi it I lit t ii wui ma
('Inn nee m!s ;.(fit family vi:t-e-1
J. N. Vfnttifv . S,iiunl;i.v nulht
for lux uutiniitJ effuris in ami Sinnhiv
;er ; lie should te r
v iii.iiiMiitdir voir -'i In-
20&rlO
Mill Haytltld Minn orr Harln hn, fu l hrk Mx-rit;nir tw:!, Mmm
Tbot ho wtlnriMx) fn4haU f n ' )n"oJ Kil right j rl, Myflld
l-'. :4 V.. 4 . . j.. I . . .
wi .'WUTI EfVIM v(U'I VVI1 If m ' ( tl UIJHT7., UI1 ITP UP.l
fuiJy elrr1, oJ by e rtrrpKnily j H!chr miJ thr l'! rutirrly, but
Sf htinif trtnt thry nsaintine-lthMir!-oul
thu grii?, Thr fins! ni-Hirr t'.xl
Mirirsn T, Will M)fit li1 10
Thr only diMppnmtir.K (oAiun of thr
f.ft of ;i Hh (m rr Krxlrrioliton' offt-i; hrid iht thr itmr thr crvJ If Marhlr M.;
b;i tichril Htohrr. Thru hr p.
lurn thr SI! a uTrn to Mimn
nd by pa to a tr.nn hnlmr on thr
utr linr ihr ,nj tl dfriiion hv
UTK!g 4l)J JrlrroxB'il i win
Wiihlh tnumiiir WiU Myfild h
fc-l irc th in, Ikry pluycc)
hy f w thr tr mfvitrnt cn tnd th
roi-w n1 (y thrir rtrniMl
Tbrir playing fr oot to lht of
Mmn. hwh ifim wrh credit on
thrir corh Th vitii'tr h4 Ik pp i r''nd nuArtrr, th- w t thr fnd of i
want or riprou t) h.xvr tmr at honir
thry hnvf to upp,irt thr trum Nn
trr. ll brhoovr thr proplr to nii up
nj ho thrir pmt ovrr um hkr
i Judge Mink in 'rrrv Lount
I She fVrry (Vunty firc-iii i-inrt
i. iiM-neil here l.ixi Mond.iv Jmljc
iVier M. Ilm k ;iml lib Mc;,ir.ij'her.
. I .iv Ii ir Plinth, is uxtirtl er- lu re 111
; ie time d nusi; f..vn m
; Tllere arc fe jiiiiiex in the
. -I.i'e wlin ciin i-ulii.ire mth .liiile
H .ii k in the in, liter of tlNp.-iichirm
I the iiixinex of the itmrl He jtiit
! mi! ; ly hat m kn.u k to f;ieihi.ite
;n,i!.:eni. While he x stnet in imirt
r.. -r.HT!. lit' ix never har-h Jude
llii k. (y his xtriit Hilhert-nee to
'-i'v ;ind sofialnhtv has made more
:(rn ids than Miiy judile ever did in
i tlii- i ircuil.
; i verylxxiy knows that Jmle Ilm k
j i- honest hi his imminent and siiiirre
iiini i onscientmiix in his work l,v
ervNxly ovnmt tetl with the ituirt is
(iiirieiusly tivated by him. mid
kin 'Wins that no Utter man can le
eie, ttl for jinlvle. the voters, irrt
sii tive of party affiliations, v dl
, ri elin t him Perrvville Sun
lh:-t Kuttlr L rrek pceth
Out- . .Ill Isc! !'"ii.f Colonel Room-
veli - '.nile ( reek stwerh withont
wo'idi 'I ii- w In (her 'he f'olotiel wants
HtiKiie- eie. tt .) i,r is re.iliy tryiaiJ to
defeni him s, .,r,.y rfimu,t think
th.ii -m il ,i "-t'eirh hurts Mr Wil
son 1'hi ( nitiiniier
Mr Milk-In- dfliktv the federal
h.ii.k i;iv at.d i iirreiicy law vxhieh
will prevent paiii.-s lie dies not
Inv the rtuid lain t law that will
prevetit tae dwaitt: of the hiniics
and tn. iid of Nv and t'irls in the
faftotii-s He is aiianist the eij;ht
honr law which is so distasteful to
l he r. ii tni.nl managers Apparfiuiv
the uiiiv ihiiij,; that lie would like
ii to see Charles K-vusioti Hughe
presi iei.t The Biillctiu
A hiree i lowd i.f vouni! h ik at
I' lidei . i-r l:-eeiint' t:rjiliiy mchl.
Mrs 7 a? Cliruiiixier has heen seri-
oiisiv v , Sit !- !ii
Mr a. mI v,; !i,,i:.et Shai M-vj-l
to make t'-eir 'i;ii!re home at ;
West's
l'r.i f .-. ;.., riey Warier
spt::t s.itr.-.. ii'i' ;.ml Sunday
with Seth Hi!!
I nine tilt wl;h yo'ir news fnn;.
Uiflin I w n Cie vs.
ti.'iptiyl Lhunh
!! Vv -.;i-.l!UM. f,Ks-.-I
he liitfil.ij; i ioxtij l,i-t Thu.'xdtiy
niliht There w( re seventi-en (-ti-vrrsiims
:.'iis is ,i result of
ineah tilahie value it t-v no niean
measure- the l!i fTeei of the meet-
in,
T
Hurl ii has tieen stresu'th-
etlej. the spiril.iai i'' Mi-iloTisnt's- f,f
the Christian portioi; of t he eotmiiii-
thr F. nlfci.' thr rnt crr for a thr eirrrn thM 1k Marvin to a riran-
JrtmiBtrni, 4 d4 M fop
tfhtint unul lint r V4, m4
tOt to ay thai rfh tr-,n om U tm
iu frntiMDka ard : vr4 toptWm.
a,,y clranbaJ! Xh fP ailR
tail of prp tnJ ri fti-t t A1 a'.l
iprrtaton arrr thai aa tar from
Hpmh m" lTir
Th mdiTidual ' ft Muni waa
Ihnr qurvrtwk, T-l ", tr
Klhip throof fcout Ihr r arnr aprfrc.
Amoivf th most prem ;rnt play rr in
Ur loeai wa I' mill, Pirrr,
Ovrna, Wood ard Hatrhrr. Th rrodtt
f th nt ia In in a iarv rr,
I licnsoa Concede Solid Million,
aire lore to Hushes
Sin Franci! Oil, ()et. 20
Thr to trm Uttlr,! lo a tir In thr '' from now until Thankatfivine nJ r A ter avmpk-tintJ tranmxintinental
campii(Jn tmir and feelinii out puh
ie sentiment from txvist to awst.
htwhlon Ti; kickrj goal.
Ihr flr hail tnjtK Martin 7, May
QrM 0.
Martin kw-krd to Nfayflrld to atari
thr rsnr,d ha'f and thrn th flrrork
ing Now tviya ir.akr rviry day ixmpt
do Mamn up nrr than rvrr.
A Fan
MARBLE HILL CIRCUIT NOTES
The pastor is eondiii tinis' a week
end tiiii'titU fur the Gravel Hill IU'V !m" 'le-pened and the uii-
elass saved have U-eii led m a lart;e
There w ill U- preMfhinjS at Hickory "ie.isi.rf- to .-oLsi-h-r their eonditiou
drove Saturday uiai.it . and Slltlilav Mihoiita Savior
11 at Harmony Kev Sorr I! iaKre.i earnestly and
Our tirst quarterly (xuiferemr w ill f-tit taf n 1; to hnm; tm-n to know j.
tnet at Kairview Saturday. Nov IS. ux a Sa mr and lord. His pres-
Ht 11 A M 'IKr w"rk aaiotic us will Ion;
There wdll special service af ,H held m trateful rememhran.x-
Halm Chapel the fifth Sunday after- ""'I appreeiatmu
noon, at :UM for the rtv-eption of Sunday the pastor will at-
niemhers and administering the l!t;n Sunday meeting at
ordinance of haptism
V. S Tussey. Pastor
Hickory Grove church in Wavne
countv He will preach the dedicn
lory serniiMi at the dtilication of the
new huildiaj; erected there In the
Irretention tictter Than Care.
! Since there is atn-h an acitation
t-gan. Kmm thia time on Mayflrld for the cure of Ullieft ulUM.hy no' '
plavrj nn around Marin, the rr- ... . - . ....
- li "tnkeat stne of the causes! AAe
ntaindrr of Ihr gmr bring played on! '
Marrin trrnuirj . cannot expeel a nbnn womanhood
Rig llrrre with the aid of hialinrmrn 90 kW(t as nir fiirls wear Cob-Weli
lore grrt gap in Marrin'a line and a yokes, thin hose, low-cut shoes ami
paaa of thirty yard, lo HaU-hrr pat the flmisy no,hiK, ju wi,rr
How often we see women of i-on-
halt imi Marrin't ftrtrrn yard linr. Iirrrr
tnl Ihm Iat a trttirhAvn Omma
kicked goal. ManinkK-kediOfayBrld, Mimntive familiea ihos playm,! with
Youni rrorftrj Uie ball. carrW il u death' At the same lime tliey will
. . . . k. - : lit. .1 .L. A.I I . V. .11 . h .III I I 1
lo their etrrllrnl ewch. rTf Mrutft. O"' ' nn ini you inrouK" oiue ill's uuu cnattrr-
lie haa taken elrrn ttrfi. ahoIute!r P"0" piimgra ana an ncri.rwi paaa mr md lfh ihrV are nerfeel v Coiiif.irt-
hall aa plar-rj oo Mamn thirty yard
line. Marrin thrn briatlrd if drove '
Madrid hox-k fire )ard and Halrhrr, MV thinly
ignallrj for a drop kiek an Manrln'a 'dreaaed, and without wrap, consume
..a - . a a. w . . a a. B. L. II . a : . . a a
Wrty bo area that tfc hia eiperl linI J .oning eomo a nail nour ieiuii(( mm (Hl-rvy
Inuniag be UI kare a ehanponhip mor peefm. The hajl aail- out in a draft y hail or on the piazza
trm i, nKh araai4i I ed rghl hetweeti the goal poata. Thl of a bitter evening "He," of
rkret corn ! did ol diarouragr Marvin and eery. ' course, was Very dt in his furs.
WUJ May field kkked W Mania gnat h.dy lakra their hata oft to the pep and No doubt many a Woman has filled
n unc SPEAKDG
Aiien u wnson. stviai.st cani.,i.ite , i ne aem.ymne ran,i,Jatrs ot iw.:,ng. ar.ni(llll (lf ,.. ul ,ie wi
for president, predicts the re-cleo- er county, Miasoun, am mm wir pro
ti-n of President Wilson , p! M ,h,r xn P date, hen-
in named, a foilowa, at :.T0p ni :
(u reachinu San Francisixi he Ieopoi4 (ct UPiia tvu r l u.
wa interieweil bv The Bulletin, ntir iw crrn acs.v: house
which quotes him as follows 30, round choo:hou'ar Ot .11, Adam 3 ami the session of the Snith-
-Iheteudera-iof the voters. as T --. Novrmhrr I. ll.hn r,.- M.ss,M,r, Baptist Mm.ster.al
, . . . ,i , - ' office. Novrmhur 2 alliance will be held with our church
have observed tht m. all incline to - A lante number of the ministers are
ward the re-elect hvn of Mr Wilson riair pi VliniITU Pnrk" mrk. exis ted to be present Tins will
n vr niiRnes is permitted to talk
assist in the ordination ot Rev
Leonard Itvis to the Christian min
istry On Fndav and Saturday. Novem-
greea to the gaw and made a leant thai
Hgfcta likr hwildnfft. ard work like a
machine. Wkile he d not make aey
for hia team thia year, tl Can
rv
kuj enough he will to fvr Mr W il
su all that the president can't k
f.r himself. Mr Hughes is trying
to get the solid millionaire vite. and
I think he will succeed.
"Mr Hughes was always a handy '
man for the Rockefellers. He went I
to church with them and taught a
bible Haas there W hen he became
governor of New York he vetoed .for p,irtkuiar
the 2-cent fare biH, which was so' ROY JONrS. Marble Hill. Mo
rM an W iCUiai in rf unnaonl Aim. .
cdci c rno cit c ..c-.., ... ,,.,-Uo. Tlu
CHCLd run aALt nlIV lo M mteresteil in church and
. have a few rne "'n"1 '' attetw ami hear ttie
gVe L
i5P Plymouth R.nk
iVkerelswhi. hi
itn offering wry
reasinvable.
Write or call
strongest men of the southeast sta
tion discuss these matters The
public is cirdia!ly invited to attend
No. 666
Tb-a w a praacrnxi prifarid mtMf
MALARIA a CHILLS aV FCVCM.
I ivr ot an doaca anil taaak any awa. aad
' takra tVra aa toawc ta Prrw will aot
' Il oc aw aW kwar Wan !
Llunal aad doa aot fnaw or awAaw. S
