BS Manea BMM MHMMM -1. A
fflES
VOL. XX NO. 190.
BAR RE, VERMONT, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1910.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
THE BARRE DAILY
EXPECT FALL
OF FORT VAUX
VERY SOON
French Troops, Following
Up Their Great Advance
on Verdun Front, Were
Last Reported to Be With
. in 500 Yards of the Fort
ress and Moving Ahead
GERMAN RESISTANCE
SEEMED WEAKENED
French Military Men Believe
That They No Longer
Have a Reserve Army, but
Are Compelled to Shift
Men from One Section to
Another as Need Arises
141 HOSTILE SHIPS
TAKEN BY TEUTONS
IN SEPTEMBER
Berlin Official Statement Also Says that
39 Neutral Vessel Were Sunk for
Carrying Contraband.
Berlin, by wireless, Oct. 26. The ad
miralty to-day made the following tin
nouncement: "In the month of Sep
tember 141 hostile merchantmen with
the aggregate tonnage of 182,0(10 were
sunk or brought in by submarines of the
central powers or destroyed by mines.
Thirteen eoptains of hostile ships were
taken prisoners and three cannon ot
armed steamers were captured.
"In addition, 30 neutral merchant ships
of an aggregate of 72,(100 tons were sunk
for carrying contraband.
FORT DOUAUMONT
WAS EVACUATED,
DECLARES BERLIN
Paris, Oct. 26. French troops at Ver
dun are following up as fast as they can
the advantage gained by their sudden
forward sweep on Tuesday and, accord
ing to the latest information, are with
in less than 500 yards of Vaux fort. The
announcement of the capture is momen
tarily expected, and if that is accom
plished it will completely restore the
French line held on February 25.
The German forces at Verdun are re
acting so slowly and with such appar
ent lack of strength that in the opinion
of French military men they no longer
possess a general reserve but are obliged
to withdraw men from one section of the
front to reinforce another section in case
of need.
The report of the casualties in hand
show that the French losses were very
light.
(iermnn artillery shelled the positions
captured by the French in the region of
aux and Douaumont last night but un
dertook no infantry attacks, the state
ment savs.
Last night's official statement was as
follows:
"North of Verdun the enemy delivered
three successive counter-attacks in the
region of Haudomount and Douamont,
None succeeded and our front was main
tained intact.
"East of Fumin wood and north pf
Chenois we continued to make progress
during the day.
"The number of unwounded prisoners
counted exceed 4500.
"On the remainder of the front there
was nothing of importance."
Statement from German Capital Says
that Germans Left Before Its Cap
ture by French Fresh At
tacks Repulsed.
Berlin, by wireless, Oct. 26. Fort
Douaumont in the? Verdun region was
evacuated by the Germans prior to its
capture by the French, says the official
statement to-day. Further attacks
against Douaumont and Fort Vaux yes
terday were repulsed by the Germans,
the statement adds.
MAIL STEAMER
IS CAPTURED
VERMONT MILL - SOLD.
Norwegian Ship, Taken to
German Port, Carried
No Cargo
AMERICAN MAIL
GOES ON THAT LINE
German Warship Made First
Actual Seizure of
Such Vessels
RUMANIANS WIN
BACK TERRITORY
VON MACKENSEN'S
PRESSURE WEAKER
IN DOBRUDJA
In Transylvania Rumanians Have Held
Up Austro-German Attack, Al
though Outnumbered.
Petrograd, via London, Oct. 26. The
pressure of Field Marshal Von Macken
sen's army in Dobrudja against the Rus
sian and Rumania forces has weakened
somewhat, the war office announced to
day. On the Transylvania front, the state
ment says, the Rumanian troops arrested
the progress of superior Austro-German
forces.
Russian troops in the wooded Carpa
thians are successfully withstanding the
Teutonic assaults, the war office says.
It reports the repulse of an attack on
the height northwest of Capul mountains
in that region.
Bucharest Claims That Austro-German
Forces Have Been Driven Beyond
the Western Frontier of
Moldavia.
Bucharest, via London, Oct. 26. The
capture by the Rumanians of Mount Ke
reharas on the Transylvanian front,
south of Bicaz, was announced to-day by
the war office. In the Cituz valley the
fighting continues beyond the Rumanian
frontier. The Austro-German forces now
have been driven everywhere beyond the
western frontier of Moldavia, the north
ern province of Rumania, the statement
says. Their losses have been heavy.
London, Oct. 20. It is now reported
that the Norwegian mail steamship from
Bergan for Newcastle, which, according
to advices yesterday, was stopped by a
German warship, has been taken to a
German port although Bhe had no cargo.
Norwegian mail steamships form a con
necting link between England and the
.Scandinavian countries and Russia. They
carry many Americans and American
mail, official and otherwise. Although
several steamers have been searched, this
is the first instance in which actual seiz
ure has been reported.
FIVE REASONS GIVEN.
DANUBE BRIDGE BLOWN UP.
Rumanians Did It When They and Rus
sians Evacuated Tchernavoda.
London, Oct. 26. A Rome despatch to
the Wireless Press savs it is reported
from Bucharest that after the evacua
tion of Tchernavoda by the Russians and
Rumanians the bridge over the Danube
was blown up by the Rumanians.
-TO AID SUBMARINES"
TOWN IN PERSIA
TAKEN BY RUSSIANS
Bijar, Located Northwest of Hamadan,
Captured and with It a Number
of Prisoners and Two Cannon.
Petrograd. via London, Oct. 26. The
rapture by Russians of the town of Bi
jar in Persia, northwest of Hamadan,
was announced to-day. The Russians
took a number of prisoners and captured
two cannon.
Declared to Have Been Purpose of Steam
er Willehad.
London, Oct. 28. The following two
letters, intercepted on their way to Ger
many, were made public here vesterday.
The first one, from Max, 461 8th street,
South Boston, addressed to his brother,
said:
"Dear Gustav The Willehad sailed to
day. I am to stay here till the end of
the war. The Willehad will act within
the American three-mile limit, as a tele
graph station for submarines. He has
four months provisions aboard.
The second letter was from the cap
tain of the Willehad, named Jachens, who
wrote from New London to his sister in
Germany, Baying:
I rejoice I am now here as captain of
of the Willehad. The. Koln still lies at
Boston. I am here with the Willehad on
a special mission.
Later 3-011 will hear more from me. I
rejoice that I have done something for
the fatherland and that I still have more
to do."
RECLUSE FATALLY BURNED.
CREW LANDED;
VESSEL SUNK
British Steamer Sidmouth of 4,000 Tons
Was Destroyed, According to Re
port Issued By Lloyds.
London, Oct. 26. The British steam
ship Sidmouth has been sunk and her
crew landed safely, Lloyds reports.
The steamer Sidmouth was reported as
arriving at Spezia, Italy, from Cardiff on 1
Sept. 11. The vessel was 4,000 tons.
ENTENTE FORCES
WIN TWO VILLAGES
French Cavalry on Macedonian Front,
Supported by Infantry, Won En
gagement Southwest of
Lake Doiran.
Paris. Oct. 26. French cavalry on the
Macedonian front, supported by infantry,
occupied two villages southwest of Lake
Ioiran yesterday, the war office an
nounced to-day. The Serbians threw
ark the German and Bulgarian forces in
(i region of tLe Cerna filer,
And William Trainor's Two Dogs Were
Suffocated.
Quincy, Mass., Oct. 26. Although he
had three children living in this city,
William Trainor, who was 74 years old,
preferred to dwell alone in his little
house at 6 Jenness street. Vesterday
morning neighbors saw flames leaping
from the windows of his two-room struc
ture and, forcing an entrance, they found
the old man dead, with his two dogs suf
focated, near him.
At first his friends thought him mere
ly unconscious, but a physician soon dis
pelled this hope. Later Associate Med
ical Examiner George V. Higgins pro
nounced death due to suffocation.
A table was found near the. bed and
on the floor a kerosene lamp. Jt is
thought, on attempting to rise, the old
man struck the table and upset the
lamp, which, falling to the floor, set
fire to the bed clothing. The dogs were
partly burned and their master"s body
was somewhat charred.
For many years he was employed by
George C. Ballou as foreman in a Quincy
granite quarry. A few months ago he
decided he would become a recluse and
refused the wishes of his children that
he would live with one of them. Two
daughters, Mrs. James Miller and Miss
Florence Trainor, and a son, Thomas
Trainor, survive him.
Why Young Men Should Support Repub
lican Ticket.-
Xcw York. Oct. 26. Charles E. Hughes
last night told an audience in the Acad
emy of Music, Brooklyn, why, in his
opinion, the young men of the nation
should support the Republican ticket at
the next election, f ive chief reasons
were cited, in answer to the question:
"What sort of country does young
America, vibrant with patriotism, de
sire 1
Mr. Hughes answered the question in
part as follows:
"First, he wants a country respected
throughout the world. He wants a coun
try which respects the dignity of its
cit ienship.
"Second, young America must desire
a country that is prepared for every
emergency.
"Third, young America, looking ahead,
must desire that when peace is once
more restored we shall contribute to its
maintenance by doing our proper share to
secure, a practicable and etrective inter
national organization in the interests of
peace.
"Fourth, young America wants govern
ment in the open, by visible constitu
tional instruments, not by unofficial
spokesmen or invisible authority. He
also wants a government not sectional
but truly national.
"Fifth, young America wants industri
al preparedness."
In citing his second reason, Mr. Hughes
assailed the administration for lack of
preparedness, referred to "manifest de
fects" in the army reorganization bill,
declared that the navy department had
"incapable leadership and touohed upon
a recommendation by Secretary Garrison
in June, 1914, that the regular army be
filled to its full strength," a recommen
dation, Mr. Hughes said, that had been
ignored.
"I am informed upon competent au
thority," Mr. Hughes said, "that had
there been the addition to the regular
army then desired by Secretary Garri
son it would not have been necessary to
send our National Guard to the border."
Cooper Company of Beningtoa Now in
Black Cat Corporation.
Kenosha, Wis., Oet. 26. The organiza
tion of a great syndicate for the manu
facture and marketing of hosiery and
underwear was completed here yesterday
and announcement is made of the incor
poration of the Black Cat Textiles Co,
whose officers and sales offices will be in
Kenosha and which will control a num
ber of important plants for the manu
facture of hosiery and underwear in this
and other cities of the country.
The new organization is incorporated
in the state of Delaware with a capital
stock of $3,000,000, and it 1 announced
that it is to be financed bv Kenosha men
Charles Chester Allen, who has been the
president of the Chicago Kenosha Hosiery
Co. in Kenosha, and unde whose man
agement the company has built up t
great business, is to be the president of
the new syndicate.
Announcement is made that the coin
pany yesterday purchased the plants of
the Chicago Kenosha Hosiery Co. in this
city, with a capital stock of $600,000
and known as the largest stocking-mak
ing plant in the world, employing more
than 1,400 people, and also the plant of
the Cooper Manufacturing Co. at Ben
nington, Vt.. a company with a capital
stock of $")00,000, which employs more
than 700 operatives.
At a meeting of the stockholders of
the Chicago Kenosha Hosiery Co., held
vesterdav morning, the formal transfer
of the plant to the new syndicate was
made and the deal for the purchase of
the big eastern plant was consummated
at the same time. ,It Is said that the new
company paid between $600,000 and
$700,0M) for the Cooper plant and no
price is given out on the purchase of the
Kenosha property.' The Btack Cat Tex
tiles Co. will take possession of the Ke
nosha, plant at once and it will take over
the plant at Bennington early in November.
$93,000 FOR SCHOOLS.
CHIHUAHUA CAPTURED?
Washington Gets Fairly Authentic Re
port of Villa's Success.
Washington, D. C, Oct. 26. Apparent
ly authentic reports reached San Anto
nio are to the effect that Chihuahua City
was taken bv Villa vesterdav. Mexican
Consul Garcia at El Paso, however, tel
egraphed the Mexican embassy here that
he had been advised bv General Trevino
And Not $52,000 as Expected, Commis
sioner Hillegia Announces.
Burlington, Oct. 26. Commissioner
Milo B. Hillegas announces that $1)3,000
or more, instead of $52,000, will be avail
able for expenditure under item "g" of
section 177 of the laws of 1015. The dls.
co very of the greater amount was made
after a little investigation which showed
that the balances of the various funds
would be considerably larger than was
supposed. Item "g" provides' that "The
balance of the consolidated school fund
provided by section 178 of this act is
hereby placed at , the disposal of the
state board of education for the purpose
of aiding the rural schools of the state
and for the purpose of equalizing edu
cational opportunities and advantages."
The total surplus is a little more than
the sum named, bow much more will be
made known later. The Investigation
revealed a balance of about $13,000 from
the fund for teachers' training schools,
$15,000 to $18,000 in rebates to towns
employing trained teachers, about f 12.-
000 of the transportation fund and about
$8,rHiO of the fund designed for adminis
trative and allied purposes fund "a," as
it is designated.
The problem which now confronts the
commissioner is how to distribute the
aggregate surplus equitably among the
various towns of the state.
TRAPPED
BY FIRE,
JUMPED
350 Children Were Asleep in
Farnham, Que., Hospital
When Flames Broke Out,
and It Is Believed That a
Score of Them Lost Their
Lives
25 BADLY HURT
IN LONG LEAPS
Fire Escapes on Structure
Were Not Adequate to Let
Them Flee to Safety The
Hospital Building and the
Laundry Were Destroyed,
and Other Buildings Were
Damaged
DOUBLE FUNERAL HELD.
of the arrival at Chihuahua of troop I Lyndon, Waverly E. Morse of Burling-
For Mr. and Mrs. Edmond C. Morse, Vic
tim of Auto Accident.
Lyndon, Oct. 26. At the Grace Meth
odist Episcopal church here yesterday
took place the double funeral of Mr. and
Mrs. Edmond C. Morse, victims of the
automobile accident near the Maplewood
farm Sunday night. The funeral was
largely attended and business in the vil
lage was suspended during the service.
Mr. Morse was 5.3 years of aire and a
graduate of People's academy of Morris-
vme and of the I niversity of ermont,
class of 1803. His wife was formerly
May I. Burnham of Concord. They were
married 19 years aeo and three years
later came to this place, where .Mr.
Morse opened a general store. For ten
years he served as postmaster under the
Republican rule. He is survived by five
brothers and two sisters, Alfred Morsel
of Possumpsie, X. J., George W. Morse
of .Newport, N. H., llliam Morse of
Farnham, Que., Oct. 26. Five children
re dead and fifteen are unaccounted for
as the result of a fire this morning in
the St. Elizabeth hospital in this place,
44 miles from Montreal. More than 350
hildren were asleep in the hospital when
the blaze was discovered, and when they
were unable to make their way to safe
ty over the fire-escapes nearly all of
them jumped from the windows. Twenty-five
children who leaped from the
third story of the building were badly
injured.
The hospital and laundry were de
stroyed and several adjacent buildings
were damaged. The fire is believed to
have been due to a defective chimney.
Later reports indicated that six adults,
as well as five children lost their lives.
At noon the ruins were still blazing and
at that time from fifteen to twenty per
sons were yet unaeoounted for. The in
stitution was run by the Grey Xuns and
comprised two buildings, one for hospital
purposes and the other as a school for
children.
WILL MEET IN BARRE.
Vermont Shoe Retailers' Association Is
Coming Nov. 1.
Hotel Barre has been selected as a
meeting pluce for the Vermont Shoe Re
tailers' association on the occasion of its
yearly meeting Wednesday, Nov. 1. From
the office of the secretary in Burlington
invitations have been extended to every
member to be present and in addition,
every shoe retailer in the state, whether
he is a member or not, is publicly asked
to join In the gathering. The business
session will be called at 2:30 o'clock in
the afternoon and dinner will be served
at 6 o'clock. Some important matters
are to be discussed in connection witn
the retail shoe trade and visitors are t
sured that they will carry home a fund
of interesting information. It is prob
able, too, that something in the way of
entertainment, possibly an automobile
trip to .Millstone hill, will be provided
by one or all of Barre s civic and semi
civic organizations.
The officers of the association are:
President, Thomas W. Ray; first vice
president, C. A. Brown: second vice-
president, C. R. Bovdenj secretary,
Charles A. Davis of Burlington; treas
urer, E. S. Cram; executive committee,
W. E. Clement of Middlebury, Fred S.
Ralston of St. Albans, George X. Tilden
of Barre and C. H. Moore of Springfield.
CORDONABOUT
. EVERY CAR
Transit Service Resumed in
Yonkers To-day, with
No Violence
BODY TAKEN TO PORTLAND.
Funeral of Little Cecelia Skerritt Was
Held This Morning.
Funeral services for Cecelia Skerritt,
youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Wil-
1am Skerritt of 8 Farwell street, who
wu run over by an automobile Monday
evening and who died Tuesday morning,
were held this morning at 7 o'clock from
St. Monica's church, Rev. Father McKen
na officiating. Friends and playmates
attended in large numbers. The pall
hearers were four brothers. William, jr.,
Harry, John and James. The body was
aken over the Montpelier & Wells River
road at 7:20 for Portland, Me., where
burial will take place.
1 he following is the list of floral trib
utes: Carnations, brothers and sisters,
Mr. and Mrs. John Hussey, Patrick Her-
non, Mr. and .Mrs. John Angwin, .Mrs.
A. H. Wilkin, Mr. and Mrs. Shannon
Mr. and Mrs. Matt Fitzgerald. Mrs. Mc-
Xulty, Mrs. Riley, Mr. and Mrs. A. W.
Badger, Mr. ami Mrs. James Hastings. Mr
and Mrs. L. M. Pease, Mr. and Mrs
James Grogan and Gladys, Mrs. M. Nel
son, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Ricciarelli,
Gockey and Masey Punleavv, Miss A.
Mainini and brothers, Miss Dorothy
Brown. Misses Madeline and Agnes Hale,
Mr. and Mrs. Crawford. Mr. and Mrs.
Garighan. John H. Carrick, Gladys Greg
oire, Pietro Cappi; roses, James Thomp
son; chrysanthemums, employes of gas
company.
AFTER A MONTH
OF SUSPENSION
Automobiles parrying Po
lice Rory jefore and
,r Cars
Yonkers, X. Y., Oct. 26. With four po
licemen on each car, transit service was
resumed o-day after an interruption of
more than a month. Automobiles carry.
ing police moved in front and behind each
car. tew citizens rode in the tars, and
the first trips were not attended by violence.
C0X0N WILSON
Barre Girl the
Bride
Man.
of Granitevlllo
BOTH WANT CHILD
TWO WOMEN LEAPED.
WAS TWICE SHOT.
First Time Perhaps Accident, Young
Man's Father Thinks.
Ashland. Me.. Oct. 26. The belief that
Arthur Rafferd. a youthful hunter, de
liberately took his own life after he had
shot himself accidentally yesterday was
expressed when his body was found by
his father, A. W. Rafferd in a field at the
rear of bis farm.
The location of the wounds indicated
that the young man received the contents
of the gun in the abdomen while trying
to remedy some trouble with the weapon.
Apparently he then drseged himself
about 10 rods toward his home. but. find-
me it impossible to reach there, reloaded i
the gun and shot himself under the left
ear,
trains bringing about 8,000 men under
command of General Maycotte to rein
force the garrison.
Conditions in northern Mexico, revolv
ing on the new ascendancy of Villa as
a military leader, are commanding more
attention than at any other time since
the raids which resulted in the dispatch
of the American punitive expedition.
Administration officials made no effort
to disguise their opinion that the Amer
ican-Mexican commission sitting at At
lantic City, cannot be expected to ar
rive at a satisfactory solution of border
problems until the situation in Chihua
hua has been clarified. Any agreement
for the early withdrawal of General
Pershing's forces from Mexico apparent
ly now is considered out of the question.
Moreover, the impression stood out
clearly from all the views expressed that
while the present situation exists there
is little possibility that the forces of
regulars or National Guardsmen ou the
border will be reduced.
FUNST0N SKEPTICAL.
About Report that Villa Has Captured
Chihuahua City.
San Antonio, Tex., Oct. 26. Persist
ent reports of the fall of Chihuahua City
to the Villa forces, which have been cur
rent here, have not been confirmed on
the advices to southern department head
quarters of the I'nited State army. Ma
jor General Frederick Funston, ques
tioned regarding the reports, said that so
far as he knew, they were not true.
ton, Henry L, Morse of Hyannis, Mass.,
Mrs. Alice Robinson of Burlington and
Mrs. rannie Keith of Charlestown, X. H.
Mrs. Morse was 41 years old and was
born in Concord. Since coming to Lyn
don she had been an active club woman
and had been with several fraternal or
ganizations. She lesves a sister, Mrs.
Pownd of Lyndonville, an aunt, Mrs.
Sophronia Burlam, with whom she lived
from childheood, and a brother, Lewis
Stock well of Concord. .
"BOTH EXCELLENT GENTLEMEN.'
Too Much Like Work.
The happy mother of seven-month-
old baby, wliow chief business seems to
be making a noise in the world, was pav
ing her sister a visit, and the other even
ing young Master Harry, aged seven
years, was delegated to care for the baby
while his elders were at dinner. So he
rheeed it back and forth, forth and
back, the length of the library, giving
vent to his sentiments by singing, much
to the amusement of the family:
Cee whir! I'm glad 1'rn free,
io wedding bells for ine,?
Hughes and Wilson Get Recommend from
Prohibition Candidate.
Scranton, Pa., Oct. 27. A new note for
a national candidate in the present elec
tion was sounded last night by Ira Land-
rith, the Prohibition vice-presidential as
pirant, when he declared C. .t Wilson and
Hughes were both excellent centlemen
and that he did not care who won the
presidential race. Landrith attacked
their parties, however, declaring that
they were responsible for the silent atti
tude of their candidate.! on the liquor
question.
"Both of these candidates are excellent
gentlemen, and the country won't be in
grave danger with either of them in the
White House," he said at Wilkes-Barre.
"I don't care whether Wilson or Hughes
w ins."
"But their parties are not all right.
They are silent. on the liquor question
and they make their candidates silent.
If you can vote the etraight Republican
or straight Democratic ticket all of the
time and remain decent then you're a
moral acrobat i.nd you should perform
for the entertainment of the children.
"I used to be a Democrat, but I fount!
I couldn't be a straight Democrat and a
straight man, so I left that party."
A wave of applause was quickly si
lenced by Landrith with another that
brought new cheering for other persons,
obviously Democrats
And Were Killed During $100,000 Fire in
New York City.
Xew York, Oct. 26. Two young wom
en were killed in a four alarm fire which
wrecked a seven-story loft and factory
building in East Houston street last
night, causing property damage esti
mated at about $100,000. Several other
persons who were in the building when
the fire started have not been accounted
for.
Sensational rescues were effected by
police and firemen who went to the aid
of a score of men and women trapped on
the roof of the burning building. A num
ber of persons, several of them firemen,
were overcome by smoke or cut by fly
ing gla-ss.
According to the police, the two known
victims were killed in jumping from the
roof of the burning building to a tene
ment houe, adjoining, a fall of two
stories. Firemen were trying to rescue
them when they leaped.
But Both Unwilling to Live Together; So
' Divorce Action Is On.
The contested divorce case of Orenna
A. Stani vs. Angclo Stani of Montpelier
is being tried to-day in county court.
The parties appear to be eager for the
divorce but are mutual in their desire to
obtain the custody of the minor child.
Over a year ago the parties appeared in
city court, Stani having been arrested for
taking the little girl and deserting his
wife. He was apprehended in Boston.
Their difficulties were eventually settled
and they resumed family life.
At divers times Mrs. Stani has made
complaint to the grand juror about
Stani's treatment of her. In court this
forenoon she testified that he had struck
her with a flatiron. had threatened to
kill her, and she had several times been
forced to flee to neighbors because of his
actions toward her. J. Ward Carver rep
resents Mrs. Stani and George L. Hunt
and Arthur C. Theriault are counsel for
Mr. Stani.
A divorce was granted yesterday to
Mary Reed from Bertie A. Reed and she
was given the custody of a minor child.
A very pretty weddine was solemnized
last evening at 8 o'clock at, the home
of Mr. and Mrs. James Wilson, Essex
street, when their daughter, Bessie, M.,
was given in marriage to Henry Coxon
of Granitevillc. The ceremony was pcr-
lormed by Key. iiert J. Lehigh, pastor of
the Baptist church, under an arch of
white, in the presence of about 60 in
vited guests. The single ring service
was used. The young couple were at
tended by Leslie Wilson, brother of the
bride, and Miss Irene Marr of Wililams-
town. Miss Elsie Wallstrom presided at
the piano.
The bride was dressed in white silk
and carried a beautiful bouquet of white
roses. The gown of the bridesmaid was
of georgette crepe and she carried white
carnations.
After partaking of a sumptuous wed
ding supper, the happy couple left on.
the night train for Boston and other
eastern cities amid a shower of rice and
confetti. Upon their return, they will
take up their residence in Graniteville.
PIRIE DEFERREST.
GAVE KEEPER THE SLIP.
GUILTY OF MANSLAUGHTER.
Ezemer St. Denis Stabbed a Man at Man
Chester, N. H.
Xashua, X. H., Oct. 26.
Denis was found guilty of first degree
manslaughter in killing Reinholt Thum
bhmi by a superior court jury which re
ported at 9:35 last night after being out
about three hours,
Thuinblom was stabbed to death at
Pine Island park, Manchester, on the
morning of July 4.
The only witness put on by the defense
was St. Denis himself.
He testified that he went to Pine Island
park late on the evening of July 3; that
he arrived at the park after the lights
were out, heard voices which he thought
might be those of his friends, called to
them, was told to shut up, afterward was
attacked by two of the men he heard,
lost his hat, and ran from the scene and
all the way home.
St. Denis admitted that he wore the
blood-stained hat which the police pro
duced. He told the jury that the reason
why he told conflicting stories about the
case to the police was the t he was afraid
they would trim him. He said he was
born in Albany, X. Y., 35 years ago ami
has a wife and six children in Manches
ter. He said he had done considerable box
ing under the name of "Kid"' St. Denis.
He had been arrested for wife beatins
and other things and had been separated
from his wife a year.
George Tatro Was Being Held at Ver
gennes for Burlington Officer.
Burlington, Oct. 26. George Tatro, the
youth who left the farm of Dan Mansur
in Essex Junction Monday, noon, taking
with him a horse and lumber box wagon
belonging to Mr. Mansur, and who was
found Tuesday in Vergennes at the
state industrial school, where he was
to have been held uniil the sheriff from
this city arrived with a warrant for his
r.zemer ot. t . . , -
mi i lie scnooi ine sup hihiii vesieruHv
Wedding Took Place at Bride's Home ia
Waitsfield.
A large number of Barre and Granite
ville people motored to Waitsfield vester-.
day to attend the wedding of Miss Har
riet DeFerrest and Frederick F. Pirie,
which took place in the home of the bride
at 1 o'clock. Rev. W. A. Remele, pastor
of the Waitsfield Congregational church.
was the officiating clergyman. The brid
is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C W.
DeFerrest and the groom is the son of
Representative J. K. Pirie and Mrs. Firie,
of Williamstown. After the ceremony
there was a reception and a wedding
luncheon was served, the bridal party
leaving for Barre in the late afternoon.
Mr. and Mrs. Pine left early in the Even
ing on a wedding trip to Ballston Lake,
X. J., where thev will pass their honey
moon. On their return they are to reside
in Williamstown, where the groom is as
sociated with his father and brother in
the large quarrying interests of J. K.
Pirie &, Sons.
FIVE LODGES REPRESENTED.
KILLS WIFE, TRIES SUICIDE.
Plainville, Conn, Man May Die as Result
of Slashing Himself.
riainville, Conn., Oct. 26. Joseph Sa
lerno killed his wife at their home here
and up to a late hour last night was at
large.
Tatro drove to Vergennes in the stolen
rig Monday and left the horse at a barn
for keeping, going to visit Superintend
ent J. X. Barss at the industrial school,
where he was confined last winter for
having endorsed and cashed a small
check belonging to his brother. Sheriff
Allen had traced him to Vergennes and
Mr. Barss promised to hold him until
this morning, when the warrant would
be served on him. The warrant was is
sued by State's Attorney T. E. Hopkins
yesterday morning, charging the youth
with grand larceny, the theft of the
horse and wagon. Soon after Super
intendent Barss arrived in the city with
the information that Tatro had taken
dutch leave of the school.
He was placed in the hands of a new
man at the institution, who was to have
kept watch over him. Tatro asked that
he be allowed to go to the barn to take
care of the horse and about five minutes
later could not be found. A search or
the surrounding territory did not result
in his capture.
At Fifth District, N. E. 0. P. Meeting ia
Barre Last Evening.
Five lodges were represented last even
ing at the regular meeting of the fifth
district, Xew England Order of Protec
tion, which was held in Odd Fellows hall.
Barre, East Barre and Granitcvillo
lodges, which properly constitute the dis
trict, were largely represented and there
were sizeable delegations present from
Xorthfield and Montpelier. Supremo
Warden Arthur M. Willis of Bostonwho
was present with Mrs. Willis, received a
cordial reception from his Vermont fra
ternity brothers, and officers of the state
lodge who were warmly received were K.
W. Crannell of Burlington, the grand sec
retary, and L. A. Bullock of Xorthfield,
vice grand warden.
Messrs. Willis. Crannell and Bullock
each contributed informal remarks to the
program. Piano and vocal solos were
rendered by members of the order and
late in the evening refreshments of
punch and wafers were served.
BIG STONE BLASTED OUT.
SECOND CASE IN FAMILY.
First Child Died Last Week in Poult
ney Present Patient 6 Years Oil
Poultney, (Vt. 26. Owen, six-vear-old
nn of Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Williams
of Xorth Poultney, is ill of infantile
paralysis. This is the second child in
the family to have the disease, the older
brother, RoWrt, seven vears old. dvinj
Rockport Granite Co. Thinks It Is the
Record of New England.
The Boston newspapers had the follow,
ing item to-day :
Gloucester, Oct. 25. The largest single
block of stone quarried in Xew England,
and without doubt .in this country, wis
blasted out this afternoon at the quarry
of the Rockport Granite Co. at Bay View,
The block, taken from the Blood ledge.
one of the noted quarries of the cape, i
10(1 feet wide, 100 feet deep and 275 feet
long. The estimated weight is 250,000.
tons. The blast was under the direction
of Supt. George L. Taylor.
Twenty holes were driven to a depth of
50 feet. ' In these were inse-tcd 25 keg
of blasting powder.
MET AT WELLS RIVER.
yesterday by cutting her throat. He ! last week.
then ran to a nearby pond and, after I Dr. Taylor and Xlr. Granger, reesrch
slashing his throat, jumped into the wa-1 men from Burlington, and Ir. lVrvcn.
ter. His wound was not fatal, and. after health officer of this t"-.n. after an ex-
Oh, von Republicans n-ed not cheer," 1 being in the shallow water a short time, lamination prnoiin-ed the disease t be
lie said, "vou're as rotten as we're inde- he crawled out and was later found on infantile paralvsis and injected the ser-
tciit." the bank, w here he was arrested. urn.
District Meeting of Women's Relief
Corps Held Yesterday.
Welts River. Oct. 26. The annua dis
trict meeting of the Women's Relief corpa
a held here yesterday.
Mrs. Helen Bonnett of Concord, de
partment president, and Mrs. Kate D.
Lee of Wells River and Mrs. Sarah Hov-
ev of St. Johnsbury, past department
presidents, were present. Installation of
otlit-ers took place at the morning ses
sion.
Ijist night Mrs. S. E. Clarke enter
Uinitl the corps at her home in honor
of Mr. Elizabeth Wheeler of White Riv
er Junction, junior vice-president of Ver-
