r
urui Historical Society
VOL. 33.-NO. 31
HEPPNER, OREGON, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2G, 1916
SUBSCRIPTION, $1.50 PER YEAB
IjAZETTE0 1
MES
LEXINGTON CROP
E
Enormous Crop Fills All
Warehouse Space And
Available
Vacant
Lots Are Being Rented 1'pon
Which to Pile Sacked
Wheat.
DAT 600,000
Six hundred thousand dollars. nirougn uciure van we&uicr seis
worth of wneat will be shipped outjin- He wiu deliver hls rain to tne
of Lexington as a result of the enor-1 rallroad north ot hls Dlace on the
mous crop raised on the farm lands Coyote cut-off where the railroad Co.
tributary to that town, and the subse- have put in a siding and built a plat-
. a i-1 . . i- t 1. 1 i i i 1 1
queui ii puce which is ueiug paiu
ior wneat.
This is the estimate made by W. E.
Leach, well known merchant of Lex
ington and he believes his estimate
to be a very conservative one.
. It has been years since such scenes of a bullet from his foot. The acci
were enacted in this county as is seen dental discharge of a gun sometime
at the many warehouses along the , 4 ... ., .
Heppner branch of the O. W. R. & N. a8 le" this missile in his foot which
Co. And at Lexington it is more it has been impossible to remove so
noticeable than at any of the other far He was accompanied by his
stations. Threshing in the Lexington ..
section was completed comparatively : motner-
early in the season and as a result j Ben Buschke is closing up a very
much of the wheat has reached the ' , .. ,, .
warehouses there sooner than has "cceBsflil year on the Jim Rhea
been the case In other sections. In Place- He is "a considering a
spite of the fact that wheat ship- proposition from the trustees to pur
ments are being made more rapidly chase this extensive tract of land
this year than formerly, the wheat and It is to be hoped he will do so.
contiues to pile up in the warehouses. He and his family are among our very
All the available space in the large best citizens and they should become
houses at Lexington are full chuck fixtures in this county,
up, and many farmers are piling up i
their wheat on vacant lots adjacent -Mrs. Leon Logan passed away at
to the railroad yards. I her home at Cecil on Monday. She
Early season predictions placed the has been 111 for Borne time, suffering
value of Morrow county's wheat crop from diebetes, but her sudden de
at 2,000,000. Many statlsticans are mise was a surprise and shock to her
now of the opinion that it will come many friends. She leaves a husband
close to $3,000,000. The early sea- and five children. Interment was at
son estimate was made on a basis of Arlington. Mrs. Logan was a sister
90 cents per bushel. In very few of Frank Nash, formerly of this place
cases the farmers have sold for less but now of Pendleton.
than a dollar.
It Is estimated that about one half '
ot the lone wheat crop has been sold.
The bulk of it still remains In the
field where It was threshed and wheat
hauling will be the order of the day
there for months to come
NEWS NOTES FROM
(ONE AND VICINITY
1 j
Mrs. J. E. Cronan returned to her
Portland home on Saturday. I
Theo. Anderson, Eight Mile farmer
was doing business in lone Satur
day. O. E. Adklns was . a Rhea creek
farmer called to lone on business last
Saturday.
Dr. C. C. Chick was called to Hepp.
ner on professional business Sunday
. ' . ......
Jos. E. Cronan departed for Union
county on Monday to look after busl-
ness affairs.
Ed Buschke is now the possessor
of a new touring car, having pur-
v imou mi i?ciinuu kino nten II U1I1
the agents Engleman and Miller.
The material having arrived, work
was started on the new I. O. O. F.
building this week. The construc
tion work is In change of John Nelson.
Miss Mabry Currln one of our
teachers visited over Saturday and
Sunday at the home of her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Geo. J. Currln in
Heppner.
Jake Young came down from Hepp
ner Saturday to settle up for a bunch
of wheat that had been delivered at
the warehouse here. The hauling
was done by I. Wilkes.
Paul Balslger now drives a new
Mitchell. The machine arrived from
Portland the first of the week and
is a beauty. Mr. Balslger has the
agency for this popular car at this
place.
Henry Smouse is busy getting his
grain to town. He uses a train of
three wagons, his motive power being
a string of eleven mules, three work
ing abreast on the lead. He Is mov
ing a lot of grain each trip.
Claus.. Johnson, extensive farmer
of Democrat Gulch, was an lone vi
sitor Monday. He has harvested a
fine crop this fall, all of which is
u . i - u i, . i . i.
jii nits Baun, uul no biuibb mat many
of his neighbors are yet waiting the
coming of the threshing machine.
The warehouse at Jordan Siding is
now filled to overflowing with wheat,
and the management is compelled to
reject anymore until a part ot what
they have on hand can be shipped. A
scarcity of cars is delaying the mov
ing out of wheat from this point as
it is all along the branch.
Mrs. W. L. Houston of Portland,
joined her husband here on Satur
day for a short visit. She was re
turning home from Pendleton where
fine attended the state meeting ot the
W. C. T. U. Mrs. Houston is one ot
the officers of the state organizations,
I. Wilkes has secured a 6 year
lease on the Walt Smith farm of 480 1
acres known as the Barber place and
also another 160 acres adjoining, i
Mr. Smith will make some needed lm-
' provements and Mr. Wilkes will move
on the place at once and begin farm
ing operations.
' The big motor truck of Kindt &
Jacquat makes two regular trips a
day from their ranch to the ware
house In lone, a distance of 11 miles,
"bringing In 45 sacks to a load. Mr.
Kindt says he has no difficulty in get
ting over the road as it has been
pretty well strawed all the way.
W. B. Finley visited lone Friday.
He states that the threshers will be
at his place right away and hopes to
f0rni.
The young son of L. L. Jakes
iken to Portland Saturday for
surgical treatment for the removal
E. E. Lyon departed for his home
al "mgneia, wasn., Monaay arter
navmg spent several weens in tnis
vicinity looking after his interests
here. Mr. Lyon is the owner of the
Alex Young place at Gooseberry
which was farmed during the past
season by Edgar J. Ball. He may de
id e to return to Morrow county again
and attend personally to the . farm
ing of this place' on which he con
templates spending considerable
money in improvements.
Rev. Philip Dascher, of Portland,
addressed a union meeting at the
Baptist church on Sunday morning
Jast m th! 1terest of tlie An-SaIB
League of Oregon. His address was
in particular against the Brewers
Beer Amendment, 315 on the ballot
and he made plain the duty of every
voter opposed to this measure. He
plainly showed that it is imperative
to vote 315 X NO, if you want this
measure defeated and surely no right
thinking person desires to return to
the 8aloon dayS- In the meantIme
t0 clnch the prohibltlon question and
do away wltll this shipping in privi-
lege, vote for 316 X NO.
Will Discuss Future of
Apple Packing Methods
Spokane, Wash., October 26. In
what kind of package is the north
western apple to be marketed in the
future?
Orchard men and marketing ex
perts have been deoating that ques
tion for a long time, and a definite
step toward its solution is to be taken
at the ninth National Apple show, to
be held here in Spokane November
20 to25. A special contest for new
containers is announced for the ap
ple show, and a gold medal is to be
awarded to the winner.
This competion will be open to re
ceive entries ot cartons and small
special boxes designed to sell extra
fancy fruit to the eastern trade, and
will Include also the extra large boxes
small barrels and other containers
suggested for the purpose of moving
the lower grades of fruit to nearby
l, - v - t0
i maraeis.
Tills award is to be made because
of the growing feeling in some of
the districts that an even more fancy
package will have to be offered for
some of the extra-fancy fruit and
that a cheap container must be pro
vlded for nearby markets in order
to cheapen the cost ot packing.
Everybody Invited to a Halloween
Supper.
Menue.
Chicken pie, baked beans, brown
bread, creamed potatoes, salads,
macaroni and cheese, relishes, pum-
P,n and aPP'e P6 tea and coffee,
Thls supper is to be given In the
dining rooms of the Christian church
Friday, October 27. From S to 9 p.
m. Prices 50 and 25 cents.
!
GOVERNOR HUGHES DECLARES
HIS INTERNATIONAL POLICY
Will Not Tolerate Any Interference With U. S. Mails,
Property of Commerce.
We do not propose to tolerate any improper inter
ference with American commerce, with American mails,
or with legitimate commercial intercourse. We do not
propose to tolerate that any American who is exercising
only American rights shall be put on any blacklist by any
nation. We propose to protect American lives, American
property and American trade, according to our just rights
under international law.
And I say in Philadelphia what I said in Milwaukee,
that we have no intrigues, no unstated purposes, no secret
understandings. We stand f or the interests of the United
States and its interests alone, four-square to the world,
first, last, and all the time.
Now, that is not a policy of war. That is a policy
of peace. Statement made by Governor Hughes in his ad
dress in Philadelphia on October 9th.
LOCAL TEAM MEETS
CRUSHING DEFEAT
Jim CoKsuian's Warriors From lone
School Show Superior Training
and Team Work in First Game,
Running Up 20 to O Score .
Against Heppner.
Speed and team work was a com
bination which proved to strong for
the Heppner high school aggregation
at the depot grounds In this city last
Saturday afternoon, when the local
jboys met the lone warriors In the
first game of the season.
Superior training on the part of
lone was clearly shown throughout
the game, although all the 'scoring
took place in the first half of the
game, lone rushing the ball down
the field at a rapid rate for three suc
cessive touchdowns.
The lone back field is much heavier
than that of the local team, although
the line men appear to be a stand off
in weight. The speedy charging
backs of the visiting team running
usually behind a perfect interference
was more than the home boys could
successfully cope with. From the
time the game started, quarterback
Sperry of the visitors began a series
of shift formations which was the
cause of worry on the part of Hepp
ner. Cossman has developed a re
markable team and the only wonder
isthat the green, inexperienced poorly
coached team from the local institu
tion was able to keep the score from
soaring much higher. The fight and
bull dog spirit displayed by the home
boys, especially in the last two quar
ters of the game, was remarkable and
they showed a fighting quality which
'will spell victory in the games that
are to come later In the season, af
ter they have become more experinc-
ed and better trained.
The next game of the interscholas
tlc league will be played in Lexing
ton Saturday afternoon between the
high school of that city and Heppner
high school. All thed ope at the pre
sent time favors Heppner, although
the strength ot Lexington is little
known. The game will be called for
2:30 o'clock and a large number ot
local rooters will go down for the
contest.
Local Bakery Raises
Price For Bread
As a result of the rapid raise in
the price of flour, superinduced by
high prices for wheat, the Heppner
Bakery has announced that hereafter
they are compelled to charge 5 cents
straight tor bread. Heretofore it
was their custom to sell six loaves for
twenty five cents. While flour is the
essential ingredient in the making of
bread, the rising cost of sugar, lard
and yeast has also been a factor In
raising the price of bread. Should
wheat continue to go up, thereby in
creasing cost of flour, It Is not
unlikely that bakeries will be forced
to make further increases In charges
for all food stuffs which they sell.
Tbfgypocoach.uufy , . TseUeclsU,tn
!
OLD DAYS RECALL
ED BY REDIGTOH
Former Gazette Ham Edits Breezy
Mining Paper la Grizzly Gulch,
. " San Diego Exposition.
John "Watermelon" Reddlngton.
many, many years ago, editor of the
Heppner Gaxeztte, is now doing big
press stuff at the San Diego Exposi
tion, ne is puousning a paper call
ed "The '49 Camp News" and the en
tire periodical is riven nvr tn th
publishing of Mining news. The
news nas oat little value outside of
its power to entertain. All the
stories are based on '49 mining days
with present day improvements.
Several of the stories in the "News"
Sotfild InlghtT familiar. -ud iim.J
the names come pretty near home.
Here is one ol Mr. Reddfngton's news
Items, and it is a fair sample of what
the entire edition contains It i
entitled, "Down A WeU."
"There are times when if yon go
down a well that is deep enough, you
can look up and see stars in broad
day light. When Myles McKelvy
and Jim Neville went over to deepen
Nelse JoneV denn wrII nn RmlrnoV
Bottom they put in a cople ot shots
and Jim went down to fill the bucket
telling Myles not to null no until h
gave the signal. Myles thought he
had plenty of time to go over to the
Drewery ana and out the latest war
news and after he had roosted there
tor two hours and had a fighting ar
gument With another Dutchman ha
suddenly remembered about leaving
Jim down in the well.
Jim Was still the all rteht on Tio
had forgotten to take down his climb
ing irons to come up a 90 ft. wall.
The enSUine fnnvernatinn hotajonn
these two frontiersmen was rather
sarcastic and approaching the bonds
of personality, but when Jim's word
was out that he would not shoot My
les, he was hoisted up in the bucket,
and they both went back to the brew
erv to make hot-air aettleniBnt nt
the war and said to let Nelse Jones'
old wen go to grass, and what did
he want with water anyway, while
there was so much beer in the coun
try?"
The paper is evidently issued to
nromuleatfl intercut in tha '10 oamn
at the Panama-California Exposition,
a reproduction of the typical mining
days of 1849. Many of the stories
published by the editor are of interest
locally on account of the names and
settlings given to the stories. Char
acters well known in Heppner 25
years ago are given prominence in
many ot the articles.
Heppner Library Will
Have Children's Hour
Miss Edith Thorley, librarian of the
Heppner Library wishes to announce
that there will be a free Children's
Story Hour every Saturday afternoon
from 2:30 to 8:30 o'clock, for child
ren ranging from 6 to 10 years. A
special Invitation is extended to ladies
from out ot town who wish to do
shopping, to leave their children of
this age at the library during this
hour.
Win. Staffer of Hood River visited
his Morrow county land holdings here
this week. He is much pleased with
conditions here. His two ranches are
being farmed by Jas. Stockard aad
Frank Munkere,
Born Monday Oct. 23, to Mr. and
Mrs. A. D. McMurdo, a son weighing
i pounds.
Oscar Keithley and familv of Eieht
Mile were Sunday visitors at the I.
R. Esteb home in this city.
See Beach & Allyn's advertisement
in this Issue. They are Morrow coun
ty agents for the Dort car.
Mv residence nrnnertv in ITtr.tina,
is for sale, for price and terms, see
me. J. A. Patterson.
Mrs. Mary A. Bartholomew has
eturned to her home in this citv after
I visit of three weeks with relatives in
Portland and other Willamette Vnllev
points.
O. T. fiobinette was a Heppner vi
itor Wednesdav. Mr. Rohi
formerly engaged in the blacksmith
Dusiness in .Lexington but is now as
sisting in moving the big wheat crop
to the warehouse.
La Verne VanMarter and Rnhert
Young returned last nieht from few
days in Portland. Mr. Van Marter
has accented a noRltinn with tha
Oazette-Times and will have charge
I Circulation. He was formerly with
the Portland Evening Telegram.
Mr. and Mrs. Tnm Went inH M
and Mrs. J. C. Thatcher of Portland
nave been guests during the past
week at the home nf Mr mH m,
B. R. Patterson in this city. Mrs. West
was a former Heppner girl and will
oe rememDerea Dy many of her
friends here as Elise Bartholomew.
They will return to their PnrtionH
home Friday.'
Attended Baker Meeting.
Dr. H. T. Allison returned the last
of the week from Baker where he at
tended the meeting of the Eastern
Orgon Medical Society. Dr. Allison
highly praises the manner in which
he society was entertained by the Ba
ker people while In session there.
The meeting was a big success. Dr.
Allison returned by the way of Ar
lington, where he had left his car.
He made the trip between Arlington
and Heppner in just three hours of
actual running time. He considers
this good time in view of the fact
that there is little or no road most
of the way."
UNIQUE PLOT IS FEA-
TURE OF STAR DRAMA
Patrons of moving picture dramas
.re geting tired of the hackneyed
plots based upon the eternal triangle
where two men love the same woman
or In rare cases where two women
love the same man. This Theme is
as old as the ages and judging from
many recent film productions has
about become worn out from constant
repetition. A dramatic version of
this theme that is unique in the an
nals of motion photography is seen
in the Mutual Masterpicture De Luxe
Edition "According to Law," a five
act emotional drama produced by
Gaumont which will appear at the
Star Theatre next Sunday.
This powerful story is one which
will have an universal appeal for it is
not a story of inexperienced youth
but of the Btronger and more tense
love of a mature couple of which the
wife is the weaker vessel so engrossed
in her round of social gaieties that
she will not have children. The
tale is griping and forceful and reach-
s a much needed moral.
Robert Bland a successful business
man drifts from his wife Isabel, a so
cial butterfly, because she refuses U
become a mother while he desires
children. A divorce is granted to the
wife and the husband embittered at
the world betakes himself to the
Florida everglades. Isabel goes to
their winter home on an island oft
the coast of Florida.
Through the intervention of a
friend unknowingly Bland and his
wife are brought to gether and each
realizes that a great mistake has been
made. A reconciliation is effected. A
year later Isabel dies on giving birth
to a baby girl.
Twenty years elapse and Bland and
his daughter Isabel are living In the
everglades The elder Bland is strick
en and while seeking aid for her fath
er Isabel meets her cousin Ralph and
his friend Austin. Bland dies and
the newhew Ralph endeavors to de
fraud Isabel of her heritage but is
prevented by Austin who saves the
property and claims Isabel for his
bride.
Mildred Goegory one of the most
beautiful and accomplished screen
stars is featured in this production.
Her role is an exacting one in which
she Is called upon to display her re
markable powers of emotional ex
pression. She is called the queen of
emotional film artists and her work
in this picture merits this description.
She is ably supported by Howard Hall
the noted legitimate star who makes
his debut in pictures in this tense
drama.
LOSS OF SHEEP
IS EE
State Veterinarian W. H. Lytle Tells
How Animals May Become Poison
ed While Being Brought From
Summer Range.
(By W. H. Lytle, State Veterinarian.)
The majority of sheep troubles
seen of late in Morrow county have
been intimately associated with eith
er poisonous plants, particularily Lu
pine, Alkili, or overloading followed
by heavy drinking of water. There
has also been an occasional death
due to what would seem to be Hemor
rhagic Septicemia, this is an Infection
similar to swine plague in hogs and
attracts primarily the lungs when
seen in sheep. This infection no
doubt has been set up by certain
sheep drinking - of highly stagant
water and breathing dust.
The large losses have resulted from
an over feeding of lupine, this plant
be longs to the same botlcanical fam
ily as the clovers and alfalfa and is
of such a nature that under certain
conditions a violatile poison. This
same condition is seen in clover and
alfalfa. Sheep when they are fam
ished and have been forced to go
long without sufficient feed, if turned
in on any of the clovers or alfalfa
will become poisoned. This poison
ing is greatly lntensifyed if the ani
mals are afterward allowed to drink
freely of water. This also holds
true In feeding lupine. It must be
remembered that only certain con
ditions will produce poisoning front
lupine, these are generally speaking
allowing' sheep to graze on lupine
forage when animals are hot and
hungry and when the forage is taken
in on an empty stomach. Even In
this condition sheep will not suffer
greatly if water is witheld from them
for six hours or more. The juices of
the stomach seem to neutralize the
lupine poisoning but when water is
taken into the stomach the digestive
juices are neutralized and diluted and
fermentation and other disease pro
ducing processes take place.
Sheep owners could protect them
selves by herding carefully, the North
and East slopes of the hills should be
avoided until late in the day. It is
on these slopes that the green lupine
s found. The West slopes while con
taining the plant here it is dried and
the seed pods have opened and the
seeds which are poisonous have fallen
to the ground. Either the beans
from the mature plant or the green
leaves from the plant at flowering
time are the most dangerous. As
an antidote Potassium Permanganate
(a red powder) diluted in water in
amounts of five to eight grains
will often relieve the animal if it is
given early. Poisonings that result
from the bean seem to be more se
vere and frequently will not respond.
Th whole intestinal tract often seems
to be paralized and hence only oils
and salts will be of any benefit in
this condition.
Treatment is not satisfactory and
prevention from eating large quanti
ties of the plant will prove the more
effective. Sheep when returned from
the mountains should either be graz
ed on the south and west slopes or
they should be penned and fed hay
for a few days filling them up well
in the morning before turning them
out. Green plants of any kind are
dangerous to sheep when they have
gone long without food as they en
gorge themselves and often impac
tions of the third stomach results
from eating too much coarse food.
Some losses have resulted from this
cause here in Morrow county. The
past summer has been favorable for
troubles of the plant poisoning na
ture and sheep owners should be
carefull until the flocks become ac
customed to the range.
Returns From Seattle Land Show.
W. W. Smead returned Sunday
evening from Seattle where he had
taken the Morrow county exhibit to
the Land Products Show. Mr. Smead
brough home the third prize, con
sisting of $100 for this class of ex
hibit.
Brothers Take To Buicks.
The Padberg brothers are now an
all Buick family. During the past
week, John Padberg, who farms west
of Heppner, bought a Bulck Six from
Albert Bowker, local agent. This
makes four Buicks In the Padberg
family, the other three brothers, W.
H., Louis, and Lee Padberg owning
cars of the Buick make and design.
J. B. Sparks has sold his Pilot
Rock light plant to a Pilot Rock
man and the new owner has already
taken possession.
Vawter Crawford, cashier of the
Bank of lone, was in the city today
on business.
Good work horses tor sale. Guy
Boyer.
