CfarHep fiQ jfl
' I ft f H r VIA B B h H -tTv 2i$ 1
Vol.27 jfl'giii'-f i.C.fehHHHiJ SALT 'LKE GITYUT4H; SEPTEMBER 2, 1916 ' -K' -;--, No.fejl fl
'. Where The Blame Rests I
ENATCpR CUMMINS believes, or half believes, that a compulsory arbitration law would be unconstitutional, yb H
L His reasons do not appeal to us, for a sovereign power, that has no legal power to protect its pjeqandjeir common H H
f j3 rights, is not sovereign, but merely a government by sufferance. . :" " """ I ) H
- It goes to the country that what the brotherhood demand is an eight-hour day. What they demand is really ten hours' pay for i H
eight hours' work. j H
But railroads are not private property. They are under, the supervision of the government which regulates their charges for freight!? H
and passengers. At present railroad men are the best paid-mem in, the country of the 'same grade. There was a term 6f years wjienjitp H
was all railroad managers could do to keep their roads out of the hands of receivers. For a few years past, some of them have been db-f? H
ing better ,and they have responded by adding benefits to employes. Some big companies are grading vorkjtpgiy yhelmsf trusted j H
employes better rewards, and are spending vast sums on pensions. But while the main lines arc doing a better Dqsi'ness than they were'; i H
not long ago, their feeders are hardly paying expenses. fr , , H
They arc suddenly confronted by a threatened strike. It comes just when the crops are to be moved just whenva great electioniiisL H
pending. The president summons the leading railroad managers and the officers who contiol the unions in 'conference;. The latterf; H
i make their demands. 4 H
Vl The former state why it is impossible to accede to them. And this company of railroad presidents is made up of some of the fore-! j H
most executive officers and broadest minded business men in the nation. They want to arbitrate the differences between themselves 4 H
h and the unions. i ) P I
To this the union leaders object on the score that they think they have not had justice in former arbitrations, by which they mean! I
! they have not obtained all they demanded, and while negotiations are going on they serve an ultimatum on the railroad presidents, onf? ; fl
the president and people of the United States by ordering a universal strike to take place within a week unless in the jmcantime their I
demands are complied with. This places the comfort, the business, the necessities and the peace of the whxjh republic, in .the. hands of lessu H
than forty men, not one of whom knows aught of law or cares aught for the equities due the people of the republic who make the business 1 I
on which they fatten. ft! 7 i "' ' v I
Their action is precisely on the same principle that governs the man who says to the man he meets'I have hejpptwer,'Ifyant youra
purse, and I want It riglit away for this is not a mat'ter of arbitration at all, but merely that I have the "drop uppn you.M The method f I
pursued by Boyle in -Montana, by Haywood in Colorado, and behind it all is the determination of a small band of men to eat bread thatij
they do not earn. That is all there is to it. It' is stealing the holy mmc of Labor as a shibboleth by men who, were their hands washed J f I
their hands would show. that they never did an honest day's labor in their lives. There are millions of honest and true men in labon fl
v unions, but they permit the crafty and vicious members to control and this has grown until it now threatens a crisis which may call out? H
,tt all Jthe power of the republic to control, and to teach these men that when they advocate unbi idled license in the name of Liberty, the re- I
public is strong enoug'h to take the liberty to use force enough to suppress them. w 1 if""" il I
Industrial Preparedness
T,HB sudden springing of the war in Europe
made clear that we were leaning on foreign
markets for a thousand things which we should
vhavebeen producing at home years ago. We
have seen the effect in' the rise of prices of
many things. Fine paper, for instance, has doubled
in 'cost. What have our paper makers been do
,ing for years past, or, rather, what have they
been failing to do to make that possible? When
ithe Deutschland came in with a cargo of con
centrated dyes; the fact that'her cargo was of es-
peclar value was a reproach to our manufacturers.
Tlis same lack is seen in a thousand articles
' We halve' been manufacturing cotton goods for
moreVthan a. century, but have neVer made the
finer grades of those goods.
N-e have been working in iron from the bo
ginning but it required three spore ears of that
, work before we, 'could compete with Europe in
making the nails to build our houses and shoe
our horses. - ,
With every ingredient in profusion, our finest
M cloths, crockery, silks, parpets the list is appal-
ling come from abroad.
We hope the government is keeping the ac
count, and that congress will take it up and offer
bounties for their production at homo, for no na
tion is independent untiit is able to do any use-
ful thing that any other nation can and so be able
to move in its own orbit, no matter what convul
sions may rock the world outside.
The foregoing is a reminder of something we
have often called attention to, and which grows
in importance as other industries take form in
Utah.
That is the wonderful opportunity to estab
lish a great chemical, pottery and glass making
plant near this city. Great Salt Lake and the
mountains of Utah are stored with material for
unlimited raw material for such a plant.
We have at least one great bed of. kaoline for
making as fine pottery as can be supplied at
Sevres or Kensington. We have clay richer in
aluminum than can be found elsewhere. As our
canneries increase there will be , a --steadily in
creasing demand for, light, fine bottles and we
have sands exactly ifitted for making them and
also the finest windqw and plate glass
We have the salt in the lake, the great salt
bed beyond the lake and pure rock salt in ledges
in our hills. '
There is an immense, bed of almost pure sul
phur in easy reach of this city We have beds
of cinnabar and bismuth.
The streams around us could supply unlimited
electric power and still have left their full volume
for use lower down the mounta is.
'" nwmmmmim j'l "a.iKJM"lll't-StM.frlI iyUm"' "'""Wf'
TVmJHT. ""'""" i"" mii'i ii n i.iiWtgi i " Hi iT iifcihiwWfaw' ii i'vVi
grr-; r-?j
There is one .mining property near here which! r?l
gives an army of men steady employment buti I
which likewise returns in profits to its stocky I
holders their full original investment every few- I
months, and experts declare that there is enbugh I
ore practically in sight to continue this for thirty t I
years to come'. We have men here accustomed! l
to undertaking and carrying through great enter i HI
Prises. l H rM
If one of these will call to his aid experts int hi
chemical plantk, in glass making, 'in-Uheohaking!
of fine pottery? and aluminum; and show them I
what lies here to be appropriated, he will seej 'I
that the establishing here of a million dollar plant j l
to produce these things would give a royaj arniy II
of nien and Yomen work and royal profits -f3;om Jl
their work, not for thirty years but for ali ftj&ra l
years. F ,1
j: I
, The Strike Menace I
AS we gogress the tin eat hangs over thej I
whole republic of a strike on Monday of the! l
organized laborers who handle the great modern! Jl
force, transportatibn'.fbftJwIiiclUther'bMsiness. and! ll
in a largo degree the life of the country anditsj I
industries depend. , l
It is a most serious situation and threatens I
to strain to the breaking point the basic pria-l I
ciples on which free institutions rest. ll I
. ...J . I
Lj JrR
