THE WEATHER FORECAST. '
Local showers and somewhat cooler
to-day; to-morrow fair.
Highest temperature yesterday, 855 lowest, 68.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 8.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 2.
ft
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by tht Bun Printing and Publlthtng AttoetaHon,
ONE CENT
la Greater New York, Kltewher
Jersey City and Newark, 1 TWO CENT.
GREEKS REBEL;
KING IS FORGED
TO QUIT THRONE
london Hears Venizelos nnd
Crown Prince Are to
Be Supreme.
ALLIED FLEET IS
CLOSE TO ATHENS
Troops Ready to Land to
Support the New Gov
ernment. WAR DECLARATION
EXPECTED AT ONCE
Hostilities Against Bulgar
Invaders and Teutons
Are Looked For.
London, Sept 1. Tho pro-Ally
faction In Greece hns revolted ngalnst
the neutrality of King Constantlne,
and tho Kins la reported to have ab
dicated the throno In favor of the
Crown Prince. Part of Greek Mace
donia Is controlled by the revolution
ary commltteo and there has been
fighting between revolutionists an J
Greek troops In Salonlca.
Tlio abovo reports came after two
days of sllenco In telegraphic com
munication with Athens and were fol
lowed to-night by the news of the ar
rival of nn Entente Allied Meet with
transports nt the PJkiui. the rort of
Athens, and that the general Greek
elections likely will be postponed for
a fortnight. The brevity of the des
patches seems to indicate that sonic
thlng unusual is happening in the
Hellenic capital. Some London kb
scrvera believe that tho Greek de facto
Government hag decided to throw the
nation's lot with the Entente Allies.
From two sources come almost
Identical despatches reporting the ab
dication of Kins Constnntinc. Ward
Price, tho Hrltlsh official press rep
resentative at Salonlca, and lteuter's
correspondent there agree that the
King haa resigned the throne in favor
of tho Crown Prince and that
Premier ZalmU Is to remain in con
trol. Venteclo. however, is to be the
power behind the throne.
The new Government, it Is said,
will have pro-Ally inclinitlons and
probably will soon declaro war upon
the Central Empires. The Hrltlsh
Foreign office officially confirms the
report of n revolution and fighting,
but says It has heard nothing of
the reported abdication of the King.
The Greek Minister hero has not re
ceived any information on tho sub
ject. Allied Fleet Near Alliens.
A fleet of twenty-seven allied war
ships convoying seven transports laden
nlth troops has arrived from Salonlca
off th Plrwus. Evidently trouble Is ex
pected at Athens and, allied troops v 111
be landed, fierhaps ta 'ensure Uw la
bility of the new government.
Despatches from Palonlca uia report
lliat the remoblllzatlon of the whole
Hreek army has been ordered, follow
ing orders recalling all Greek staff nffl
rcrs on leave. The revolutionary rom
inltteo In charge in northeastern Mace
donia Is expected also to pro-Ialm it
spfclal mobilization of all patriotic
fireeks to repel the Hulgar Invasion and
light on the side of the Allies.
Oen. Sarrall, the allied e.muiimdfr
t Salonlca, prevented serious trouble
after tho first fighting between (evolu
tionists and Greek troops had occurred,
by forcing the troops to disarm nnd be
Interned at the suburban camp of 55cl
tunlllc. Volunteers AtlRrk llnrracka.
The Greek troops had half ununited
to participate yesterday In a big dem
onstration for Intervention In the war
on the side of tho Allies, which had been
arranged by a pro-ally committee. Dur
ing the night the pro-Ally volunteers,
raised by the Venlzellsts to defend Greek
towns In Macedonia from the Hulg.T-s.
attempted to seize tho IiitucLs. They
wire aided by Cretan gendarmes, but
were, repulsed, It Is said th.it one gfti
danne was killed and two wounded.
The volunteers cut the electric wires
and shut oft food, and tho sixty loyal
soldiers who tried to make a sally were
attacked. Two more were killed nnd
three wounded. Then three battalions of
Trench Infantry marched to tho parade
Biound. stacked arms and planted ma-
hlne guns In front of tho barracks.
rmored automobile!; wero stationed in
the vicinity,
lust before 11 o'clock nt night sev
eral unarmed Greek officers, accompa
nied by two French officers, crossed to a
pavilion where Gen. tiarrall awaited
them. As 11 o'clock struck all the
Hreek troop, unarmed, marched from
the barracks, and, with their ollleers,
v.ho were permitted to retain their
ivonl, went to the concentration camp.
Thus further trouble was aerted.
rinrrlaon Surrenders tn Ilebels.
Three regiments of Greek troops nt
Voclena, between Salonlca ami Mouustlr
nnd foity-tlvn miles west of Kalonlca,
base Joined the revolutionists. The gar
rison of Kurt Little Karaharun. on tho
Hulf of Salonlca, ten miles south of tho
Oty, surrendered to revolutionists who
surrounded tho fort,
All opposition to the revolutionists In
the, affected part of Macedonia senilis to
have, vanished and tho committee soon
will take over the functions of govern
ment. It Is in this district, about Seres,
Urama ami Kavala, that llulaar troops
have seized Greek forts and cities. i is
reported that the entlro forco of 3,000
'iieeks under Col, Christodoulns, Greek
"itnmander at Seres, which resisted the
Ilnlgars. haa been captured.
Hie Crown Prince George of Greece,
(Continued cm Third Pope.),
VILLA RUSHING TO BORDER
TO FORCE WILSON TO FIGHT
With 200 Followers, Bandit Chief Is Riding North to
Attack Gen. Pershing or a Texas Town in
Hope of Mexican-U. S. Break.
Ll Paso, Tex.. Sept. 1. in the hope
of bringing on a clash between the
United States and the Carranza gov
ernment, Pancho Villa, with 200 fol
lowers. Is striking north from Hatcvo,
where he was defeated on Wednesday by
Carrnnza troops under Gen. Ellsondo.
United states troops will block his way
within a hundred miles If ho does not
change his course, nnd advices received
by Carranzlsta authorities are that he
has no intention of changing his course,
but on tho contrary he Intends to at
tack the southernmost outposts of tho
United States soldiers.
Americans here hardly believe Villa
would be so foolish us to give battle to
the American army, and some believe
he may be Intending to dodge the Amer
ican column If he can and strike nt
some border point as he did at Colum
bus, or even tako refuge. In tho United
.States.
Gen. Kllsondo, however, claims to
have Information from some of the pris
oners tnken by his men when Villa and
his band were defentcd at Satevo which
Is to tho effect that Villa Is bent upon
attacking the American Infantry now
camped at Kl Valle and forcing a battle
on Mexican soil.
Villa Is said to have argued that such
an attack will either make tho Amer
icans fight and follow him when he re
treats into the mountains and thus pos
sibly drag the Americans Into a battle
with the Carranzltas, who have for
bidden the Pershing army to move In
any direction except north, or that tho
attack will cause the United States to
make further demands upon Carranza
and eventually force a break.
Villa Is said to realize that It, would
not take very much friction to bring
the relations of Mexico and the United
States to tho breaking point again, and
that even such a small thing as an at
tack by his force uion the Pershing
2,000 ON INTER60R0
THREATEN TO STRIKE
Employees Demand Withdraw
al of Two Year Contracts
With Workers.
Two thousand motormen and con
ductors from the Interborough subway
end elevated lines, nt n meeting In tho
Lyceum, Eighty-sixth street and Third
avenue, were organized last night by
the Amalgamated Association of Street
Car and Electric Engineers, nnd then
they unanimously adopted a resolution
calling upon Theodore P. Shouts, presi
dent of tho company, and Frank Hedley,
general manager, to withdraw tho two
ear contracts, already signed by some,
of the men, nnd meet n committee of
motormun under threat of a strike.
This ultimatum Is to bo presented tn
the ofllclals on Tuesday morning by
William II. Fitzgerald, general organizer
of tho association; Iouls Krldiger. Its
attorney, and P. J. OHrlen. interna
tional vice-president.
A meeting was held last night In
Lenov, Casino, 1 ItStli street and Lcnt.x
avenue, to enioll transit motormen In
the city as members of tho llrotherhood
of Locomotive Engineers. It was said
that one of the purposes was to prevent
their ue as strike breakers In case of a
general railroad strike.
FIQHT FILM IS HELD ILLEGAL.
Jnilge Hand's Opinion Permits Kris-art-
of Wlllnrd-Johnson pictures.
Holding that the rrphntograplilrig of
tho Wlllard-Jiihnson light film across
the Canadian border Is a violation of tho
Federal law prohibiting th'c Importation
of all pictorial representations of prize
fights, Judgo A. N. Hand of the I 'lilted
States District Court yesterday by his
opinion permitted Colectnr Dudley Field
Maloue to seize tho pictures which are
ready for exhibition in this city.
The subject came up before Judge
Hand on a motion by tho Pantomimic
Corporation, owners of the films, to pre
vent Collector Malone from seizing the
pictures which were rephotographed
itcross tho Northern border after tho
customs authorities; bail forbidden the
Importation t the originals from
Havana, where the fight look place.
STRIKE IN PITTSFIELD PLANT.
:i,(IOO (irnrrnl lllcctrle Workers
Ordered Out Till Morning.
Pittskibi-P, Mass.. Sept. t. A strike,
effective to-morrow morning, was called
at the General Kleetrlc. Company's plant
here, according to an announcement by
tho International officers of seven dif
ferent unions among thu employees.
They claim the failure of thn nonage
ment to recognize their organizations In
their demands for an lucreaso of 10 per
...... t l,i u-!icr..M in reHoonslhlft for thn
strike order. About ti.ooo aro cmplojed
at til" factory unci ino i.iuor icaucrn
claim 3,000 aro union members.
BAR ELECTS SUTHERLAND.
I'ab Senator Ileal. Smith by Only
Four Voles.
Cimcaoo, Sept, 1.--Senator George
Sutherland of I'tah was elected president
of tho American Har Association for
I'.M" to-day. defeating by 4 votes Wal
ter George Smith of Philadelphia. The
vote was 2fi for Senator Sutherland nnd
22 for Mr. Smith. Mr. Smith was put
on the executive committee.
George Whltelock of Halllmore was
reelected secretary "and Frederick II,
Wadhams of Albany, treasurer of the
association for fourteen years, also was
reelected.
BUSINES3 GOOD ALL OVER U. S.
Twelve Federal Itrsrrvn IIIMrlrta
Make lilowlpa; Itrporls.
Washinuton, Sept, 1, General busi
ness conditions throughout tho United
States continued guod during August,
according to summaries from the twelve I
Federal reserve districts, mauo putilic
to-night by tho Iteserve Hoard.
No district sent out a discouraging report.
column might bo fraught wlth grave
consequences, even If the Americans
failed to follow him.
Carranza officers are attempting to
make It very plain to Americans that
they expect Villa Is heading north for
the purpose of causing trouble. They
openly express belief that he will at
tack tho Pershing column before many
hours.
Partial confirmation of Villa's activi
ties was seen In the arrest to-day of
Illpollto Villa, his brother and former
' financial agent for tho Villa "Govern
' ment," who was taken from a train
I t ' -.. . n I ..1 1 I.. UA m.ncl
twiiitt i,.ini. mm iitinii ill iiiv s,u.u
house at Fort llllss. An attempt was
made to hide tho fact that he had been
arrested. A letter to the mother-ln-
1 law of Illpollto opened some time ago
. by United Stntcs Secret Service men,
1 told of the whereabouts of Pancho and
of his rapid recovery from his wounds.
2 PEACE ENVOYS HERE.
Secretary Lansing Meets Senores
Panl and Honnlllae.
Two of tho emissaries who are to rep
resent President Carranza of Mexico at
tho coming conference at Portsmouth, N.
11., arrived early this morning at the
Pennsylvania station on a special train
from St. Louis. They were Senor Albert
J. Paul, director-general of tho Mexican
Itallroad, and Senor lgnaclo llonnlllas.
With them were their wives and families,
nine persons In all.
The Mexican envoys were greeted as
they stepped from the train at 12 :20 A.
M. by Secretary of State Lansing. He
' had reached New York only n few hours
earlier on his way from Washington to
' tho Wilson notification ceremonies at
I Shadow I.i n to-day. He nd his two
J military aids, In full uniform, nccom
pained Consul-Getieral Juan Hums and
the Mexican Ambassador Designate,
I Senor Arredondo, to the station.
1 FRIAR ROCK SOLD;
$50,000 FOR RACER
John E. Madden Purchases
Iielniont Champion Tlirce-Year-Old.
Friar Ttock, a three-year-old colt which
won great fame and many, rich purses on
ll.n .. ,1.1.. ,
. OT.it.-t ,l .in nil, una seanun .11111 ill
! I9i:., was sold for 150,000 yesterday nf
; ternoon at the Belmont Park race track.
, John K. Madden, "the wizard of tho
Itturf," paid this sum to August lielmont
j for the young thoroughbred. It Is thu
second largest sum ewr paid for a race
I horse In training In the t'nlted States.
In 1902 K. H, Thomas paid l.'.S.OOO to
L. V. liell for llermls, tho champion
handicap horse of that year."
Mr. Madden did not buy the eolt for
his racing uualltles. He said yesterday
that he will retire him to his stud farm,
Hamburg Place, Kentucky, as noon as lie.
Is turned over to him by Mr. lielmont,
at the end of the racing season here next
week.
Mr. lielmont was not eager lo sill the
colt. He refused the filler when it was
first made, but later accepted It becauo
he decided that a colt llko Friar Hock
In a stud farm llko Hamburg Place
would tend to help rating In thl.i country
, and to develop cavalry rr.'uuts, which
the United States would need In case of
i war.
Sam Hildreth, the trainer, who (level.
. oped the speed of Friar Hock, said the
1 colt was worth much more than 50,0iiu,
I Ho said lion.onn would not betooinuch for
' him, and that Friar Hock was the great
I est horse he had trained In his long
, career on the turf. He added there never
was a horso In this country that could
beat him over a long distance of ground,
"lie Is a cup horse, u fellow that can
travel fast and far," he said.
Friar Hock Is a son of Hock Sand, thn
Fiigllsli stallion Mr. lielmont bought a
decade ago for ttSMon, His dam Is
Fairy Gold, an American mare. Frl.ir
Hock was Pol M and reared on Mr. Pel
inont's Nursery farm. Last ear ho
earned famo on the turf as a two-year-old,
and this jear won the title of three-year-old
champion.
Ho won many stake races. Including
the historic Hrooklyn and Suburban
handicaps. Hy winning these two classlo
events he made turf history, for no other
three-year-old had accomplished this
feat.
I U. S. STILL WAITS ON AUSTRIA.
J Vienna Mends Another Inennrln-
I site on I'rtrnllte Case,'
I Wariiiniitun, Sept, t. Another Incon.
elusive note from Austria-Hungary on
the I'etrollte case lias been received at
the State Devartment.
i (Jlllclals Indicated to-day that the com
munication contained u laipplenieiitary
statement of facts and explained Aus
tria's delay in making a final reply to
the demand of the I'niud States for an
1 apology and icparatlou for the action
of an Austrian submarine In shelling the
I American tanker and requisitioning part
I of her supplies.
MOTOR PLUNSE KILLS WOMAN.
f ur Leaps Oter Hrldtte nt Havre de
(rare, Md.
Hai.timoiik, Sept. 1. Mrs. j, M.
Jewett, said to be n wealthy resident of
Hnston, was killed, nnd Henry G of
Itlchiiiond, Va seriously Injured, when
an automobile bearing a parly of tour
ists en route from Atlantic City to Klch
mond plunged over a lulilgn In a fog at
Havre de Grace, Mil., to-day.
The others In tho car were Sirs. VI. D.
HutchklsN of lllchmond, George Worn of
llaltlmore, and the negro chauffeur. All
were luulsed.
Motor on llronilony Kills Widow.
When crossing Sovenly-llrst street and
Hroadway last evening Mrs. Mary
Clumps, a widow 75 ears old, was
knocked down by an automobile, owned
and driven by William Jf. Watson, a con
tractor, who lives in Tappau, N, Y
and has olllces In West Forty-second
street. Watson aiul Patrolman McKenn i
picked up the unconscious vl.nlm and
rushed her to tho Polyclinic llosplta.,
where she died live minutes afterward.
Afterward the drier was locked up In
the West Slxty-oluhtli street station on a
clia'ne of homicide. A policeman of tho
t radio stiuad found the brakes on tho
car defective.
$4,201,808 LEFT BY
ANDREW FREEDHAN
Tammany Chief Willed $3,
807,202 to Home for Aged
Who Had Lost Fortunes.
GIFTS FOR OLD FRIENDS
Richard Croker Gets Fcnrl
Shirt Buttons Many Fine
Paintings in Estate.
Andrew Freed mn, Tammany chief
nnd former baseball magnate, who died
December 4, 1916, left an estate of J4,-
201.S08 In New York State after all debts
were paid, according to tho appraisal
made by Albert J. Horwlnd, filed yester
day In tho transfer tax "office of the
Surrogate's Court. Most of the estate
consists of stocks and bonds appraised
at 13,503,063. He owned also paintings
of great value.
His curious benefaction, the Andrew
Frcedman Home, which Is to care for
aged persons of both sexes who once
had been well to do, eventually receives
the entlro residuary estate, which
amounts to J3,S07,:02. Half this amount
Is available immediately for the Institu
tion. Tho Income of the other half goes
to Freedman's mother, Mrs. Elizabeth
Freedman, and his sister, Isabella Freed
man. during their lives.
Fifteen friends of the politician and
financier got valuable presents. The list
Is headed by the gift of a pair of large
white pearl shirt buttons, valued at $500,
to Hlchard Croker, who during his
leadership of Tammany relied largely
upon Freedman for many confidential
services.
Gifts for Many Friends.
The other friends thus remembered
are :
Walter G. Oakman. painting by
Troyon, "Going to Market," allied at
J2.000 ; Samuel Fntermyer. pair of large
black pearl studs, valued at 11,500; De
Lancey Nlcoll, white pearl cuff buttons,
5uo; Henry A. uiiitersieeve, seen pas
senger Do Dion Hotiton automobile,
$2,500; George W. Young, Stcltinay
piano, $1,500: lMw.ird L. llu-cho. smad
Marie Dlcterlo picture, $1,500 ; August
lielmont, a Denlcre bronze and marble
three piece clock set. $3.500 ; Perry Hel
mnnt, a Decca and Potto mantel garni
ture, clock and pair of urn candelabra,
$2,000 ; Cornelius J. Sullivan, bronze
ornament valued at $50; John II. Camp
bell, a silver flower vase worth $25;
l'Muant H. McCall, a silver ornament,
$75; Dr. William Carr. sliver punch
bowl, $75; K. W. De Leon, a sliver cen
tre piece. $350 : Chauncey S. S. Miller,
silver llouer ae, $30. Ilach of the
household employees received $500.
Kmanuel CuuKirg.ition, .Mount Sinai
Hospital, the Montetlore Home for
Chronic Invalid", St. Vincent's Hospital,
the Presbyterian Hospital, Hebrew He.
nevoletit and Orphan Asylum. St. I.uke'i
Hospital and Hnoevi't Hopltal received
5,000 each. Daniel H. Freedman, a
brother, was left $50,000 cash and a sll
er and copper cup punch set valued at
$51)0,
Two beneficiaries are not named In
the report. They aro dcrlt?d simply
as "persons of the S per cent, class of
taxation," which means persons not re
lated to the testator. On of them Is
given the contents of a sealed package
of securities valued at $65,9f,5, the other
the contents of a similar ptckage valued
at $13,943.
Mr. Freedman's principal realty hold
lugs were an equity of $7,975 In a ttact
at 119th street and Southern Hou'evard,
The IlroiiN, valued at $131,300 ; Tower
Hill and Frcedni'inor Farm at I led Hank,
N. .1.. valued together at $125,000, which
sum Is not Included In the appraisal, and
land at Hcthlehcm, N. II., valu il at
$1,000.
aril, (KM! nn Deposit.
He had $741,000 cash on hand and on
deposit In banks. Ills personal cliat'.els
at Sherry's, where ue lived, at hi otlhe,
II Plnn street, and elsewhere In New
Voik were appraised nt $1(9,301, while
he had $27,CC1 In peisonal effects in New
Jersey.
Valuable paintings Mr. Treedm.iu
owned besides thine mentioned hi be
quests to frle'inU include:
"Mill Stream," by Fritz Thaiilow, ap
praised at $2,300; "Ilcdoulns en Houte,"
by Adolphe Schreycr, $5,000 ; "The
Street Quarrel," by F.ugeno lunbey,
$2,000; "Morning After the Soiree,'- liy
Josef Sluilinonskl, $2,500; "Oms," lv
Mario Dleteile. $3,000; "Nymph Hath
lug." by Curat, $lo,nii0; "Norm indie
Pastures,'' hy Constant Tripoli, $ I P,i1(ni ;
"Flag of Truce," by I.. Alma Tadem.i,
$3,000 ; "The Falconer." by Kuucr.o
Froirentln. $2,000; "Sheep in Jas
tine," by Chailes Jacque, $2,o0o;
"Landscape,'' hy H. .1, llaiplgnles,
$4.o0o; "Forest Scene," panel ley Diaz,
$2,000 ; "Landscape," by Julian Hlx,
$1,500 ; "L iiidscnpe ; Hut Near a
Pool," by Jules Iepic, $3,000 ; "Fulling
From the Hrldge." by H, .1, llarplgnlcs,
15,000, and "Grand Canal Venlie," by
Felix X.lem, $2,000.
An antique Surak iiik was appraised
at $2,500; a dining loom suite. Halt in
Heualssance, $1,500 ; two Italian silk
embroidered panels, both of "Senor Hlccl
and Family," appraised nt $1,000 ; nn
Ivory bedroom set, upholstered In rose
Dil Hairy silk. $1,500; hp Auluisson
tapestry rug, $l.0uu. At tho Lotm i 'hi j
were wines and liquor va ul at $3ev,
Held liiterlioriiiiKli Honda,
Ficeilmuu'w bond holdings liicluiad
$151,0X7 of the Iiileilirou.-li IUp!d
Tianslt Company mid $l!ii,lll of iie
Interborough Metiopolltau c.nnpaiij
He held $1U,27 III bonds of tho Clusi
V ak" nnd Ohio Hallway, $50 511 of the
lulled Fruit Company and tho ivst f
ins Ipm atmeuth In such seiur.ti M wen
scattered among a score of standard Is
sias, les than $5o,ooo In c.iih kind.
stocks which Fivedm.in hel I In blvks
of more than $75,000 were: 1,001 shaics
Atchison common, $10firi0"l, 7;m Muiri'M
Centtal Theatres Leasing -md Constnic.
lion Company common, $1 1.1,707 ; I OG'J
shares Forty-fourth Street Kealty Coin,
pany common, $1 17,707 ; 120 sluiv
Guaranty TruM Company of New York,
$Sl,.iC0; 1,500 shares IntorhoroiiRh Con
validated Company prefeTied. $llli.';50;
4,nol shures Interborough Meuop man
Company common, $s7,52l ; 700 shares
Manhattan Hallways Company eoiiunuii,
191.000; 3,000 shares Heading Company,
$243,750 ; WOO shares Hepuhllc. Iio.i and
Steel preferred, $98,437 ; 200 Standard
Oil Company of New Jersey, $102,000;
2,200 Interborough Consolidated com
mon, 1211,376.
STRIKE DANGER STILL IN BALANCE;
SENATE STORMS OVER 8 HOUR BILL;
HOUSE PASSES IT, VOTING 239 TO 56
TRAINMEN PLEDGE
LOYALTY TO LINES
Thousands Wire Iloads They
Will Desert Union and Re
main at Work.
livery big railroad centre In the coun
try yesterday contributed Information to
show that In the event of the railroad
strike order becoming effective there will
bo wholesale desertion In the brother
hood. The New York Central, the Penn
sylvania, the New Haven, Long Island
nnd other loeal roads have received
pledges from thousands of their trainmen
who ore, brotherhood members.
H. D. fewnll. vice-president of the
Chlcngo, Milwaukee anil St. Paul, tele,
graphed to A. II, Garietstui, brotherhood
chief, that 1,000 conductors employed on
that line will refuse to obey thn strike
order. According to W. .1. lllaek of the
Atchison, Topeka and Sante Fe road,
members of the brotherhood on the road
will meet for the purpose of withdraw
ing the strike order. The L'nlon Pacific
feels confident all Its engineers and the
greater number of Its other train em
ployees will remain faithful to their work.
George It. Huntington, general man
ager of the Minneapolis. St. Paul and
Sault Ste. Marie road, will keep 40 per
cent, of Its conductors and brakemeii.
Engineers and firemen ate not affected
by the strike order.
In the offices of the Chicago, Tiurllng
ton and Qulncy It was announced 23 per
cent, of the brotherhood men will not
obey the strike command. Directors of
the Minneapolis and St. Louis toad hae
faith In the promise of their engineer"
that they will not go out: the same con
fidence Is felt for most of tho men of
the St. Louis Southwestern.
PRESIDENT ARRIVES
AT SHADOW LAWN
Xoi;. W.-loomo firoets Wilson
on Kve of Notification
Ceremony. '
I I.ONO Hi'.ANClt, Sept. 1. President
'Wilson received a noisy nnd enthusiastic
reception when lie arrived here tn-nlght
, for the formal notification of his nomina
tion to-morrow. A crowd of 50O per
sons, sounding automobile horns and
riieli. gleeted him as thu train drew
, .n'.o the stat. on.
With the President were Mrs. Wilson.
Secretary Tumulty and Dr. Cary T.
i Gray son, the White House physician.
i Mr. Wilson inado his way to n waiting
automobile with dilllculty. There were
I cheers and handicapping as the car
1 slowly made Its way past building.
draped with American flags In honor of
bin visit.
At Shadow Lawn, the summer White
House, a reception committee headed by
Mayor Matshall Wiioley of Long Hranch
and Mayor A. C. Gulden of West Long
Hranch extended otllclal welcome.
' Secretary Lansing and Mrs. Lansing
arrived here last mght on their way to
the notlllcation ceremony and went to
the Hotel Hiltmore. Senator olllo James.
JudKe W. II. Thompson of Kansas and
Mr. Well of Louisiana made their head-
I quarters at the lloiel Knickerbocker
The committee will take the tl nVo k
train at the Pennsylvania Station for
, Shadow Lawn.
j MILLIONS IN GEM IMPORTS.
I .-.,.V!.-i. 7 1 I In .. V. In Aognstl
b;iii,oo(i,ooii in lllulu Month..
Any claim that New Yoik I "Offering
from hard times falls flat upon an tit -
! spectlon of the report for All-'ll-t of
William II, Trv.idwell, I'ulted States ge-n
expert at tin! Appraisers' Store. The
I Importation of diamond, pearl. and
other preclou stone were $5,5:15,711, a
' flKUrc that far e I any other month
In the history of the pott of New Yoik.
, The total for tl Ight mouths In ll'l'l
is about $:;0,oilo,oon, which means that
' the full year's total will exceed $5u,
000,000, ' Demand for Jewelry have pa-sed all
bounds, jewellers and Importers say. The
, record boom 111 Iiiikii tatlons has come
about 111 spite of extraordinary handi
capsscarcity of stones, embargoes, lack
i of transportation and a bundled other
. things.
i Tin! Hrltlsh Government ha a com
1 mitten which has gained the hatred
. of Anieri.au importers. It examines
all diamonds from South Af'lca and
coufWates the so-called "Industrial,"
I which It can use in cutting ma
i chine for the maiiufactnio of munition.
Another scheme Is to celzo invoice
pipers, The Holland-American liner
Hyndam arrived here last week with
I llfty-sevcn packages of stones valued at
$1,500,000. These are now In the up
I pralscrs" office and cannot he released
simply because the Hrltlsh authorities at
Falmouth seized thn Invoices, for ex
amination, The diamond Importer urn
preparing tn protest to tho State De
partment. CANAL TRAFFIC HELD UP.
Slide In ('uenriieliR ( liniinel Delays
.!M'llll'llt Too l)M).
Wasiiimito.v, Sept. 1, -The slide in
I the Panama Canal yesterday was u
purely local movement and in no way
connected with the great slides which
closed the waterway last year. War
Department reports to-day fiom Gov
Goethal said tho movement occuned
along tho Cticurucha Channel, which
was congested slightly for 2nd feet nnd
Impedes tratlie. so ship will be held up
about two days while the construction is
being cleared, '
Geu. Gnethals said the movement had
no connection with the Culehra slides,
and that there was apparently no danger
of largo obstructions In the canal.
Neiv California I. nnd Opening.
Wasiiiniiton, Sept. 1, . president Wll.
son to-day signed u proclamation exclud
ing uboilt 97,900 acies fiom tho Alleles
national forest, California, of which 50.
000 acres will bo open tn settlement In
advance of entry under tho homestead
laws, The excluded lauds consist of a
strip two to six miles wide and twenty
four miles long In !s Angeles, Riverside
and Sun Uernurdiuo counties.
FOOD DEALERS PLOT
TO KEEP PRICES UP
All Commodities liaised From
One Cent to Eipht Cents a
Pound or Quart.
Whether the railroad strike becomes
an actuality or not New York faces a
further artificial advance In tho cost of
living, nccordlng to trade evidences yes
terday. With the freight embargo
serving as a pretext dealers In every
form of food yesterday added from one
cent to eight cents to pounds or quarts.
It was Indicated, too, by produce men
that when tho exultation over the settle
ment of the strike has passed the prices
now prevailing will be firmly fixed and
the public will have accustomed Itself to
the higher scale. It was In this way
that at the outbreak of the war tho
price of certain staples was doubled.
Since that time only three food articles
have been lowered to a price regarded
as norn.al.
However, w ith this campaign of creed
on In full blast counteracting agencies
already have been set In operation to
check the dealer' rapacity. Commis
sioner .losepn a. nariigan or tne .Mayor s
Food Committee already has called the
attention of H. Snow den Marshall.
Cnlteil States Attorney, and District
Attorney Swann to specific Instances of
price Jobblns. Hoth these officials have
ptomlsed action, nnd cooperation In the
same direction has been pledged bv DIs
trict Attorney Smith of Hrooklyn".
Prosecution for Prlrr llnoslrrs. i
Ditr!ct Attorney Marshall has re
ferred the matter to Attorney-General j
Woodbury, so there may be cooperation I
between the ofllclals of adjoining Judicial
districts. For the prosecution of price
bootlng culprits In thl city D.strlct
Attorney Swatin has prepared for a
Grand Jury pteentaton of the facts
already adduced and sl ill.ir ne'ion will '
oe instituted in HrooKlyn. lne Mier
man anti-trust law and the Donnelly,
ontl-trust statute will bo invoked with a
view of bringing the guilty dealers to
book for conxplracy.
Inve-tlgatlon by Hartlgan ha dis
closed that pi Ices In some place 30 per
cent, higher than those prevailing three
days iibo have heen put on food.
In the farmers' markets In the city
potatoes which last week sold for $3 or
$3.50 a barrel esterdiv were dlsnoed
uf nt il dollar Increase above those ,
price; carrots were cnlmr at n 75 cent'
Increase on the barrel anil oilier green '
good accordingly. Flesh meat have,
advanced from i n a cent a pound.
hggw have gone up I cent. a dozen, but.
ter u cent a pound and cheese a cent a
pound.
Ilarllunn Warn I lie I'nblle.
Live poultry rnear.t for the Hebrew,
S'lbli-llli were sold at most exorbitant'
price. yistetday. The greater number
of these came from New .leisey freight
yard, where they had been held await
ing Just such an emergency. Ileie i a i
warning Issued by Commissioner Hartl
gan: "The public I warned not to l.uv In
quantities. Hy nj doing they would be j
the Innocent vlctluu of price bootor,
who would lake advantage of an abnor
mal demand. There Is no o.-cislon for!
any scare about the food supply fo" New
York city. No strike i ex p. eted at this
moment, and It Is reasonably cettam
Mi it the embargo in food product wl'.l i
be raised onie a strike cancellation order
i.t circulated "
Another llllpitdtloti upon the public be.
cui-e of the anticipated food -tr'ngeiuy
ha been made known to Dlstri. ; Attor
ney Swanii in a complaint which allege
that lighter ciptaln. In expectation or
an eNtiaonlln.i'y demand for Pielr ser
Vice, have liiclc.lscd their rate Itod per
cent. This, too, will be submitted f.r
Grand Jury consideration,
In the survey nf I'tdbe Commissioner i
Wood then. It, available 'n .sVw Yolk
at the prcelit time slllllclint food fol
thee periods :
Meat. II diys. llb, 31 days; butfr,
1 1 days; flour, 53 days, egg, 10 days.
100,000 MATTRESSES SEIZED.
I'hlliideliililn Condemns Them and
l'roecnle he Makers.
I'Mii.vpKi.riiix, S. it 1 Within the
last few mouths 1 iki.i mattresses hate
been condemned in thl city as un-,
sauitaiy and disease bleeding, anil
scon s of dealers and inaniifacluieis ,
have been pins.viitcil fur violating u
State law III stutliiiK their mattresses 1
wltli in. Hoi litis that me unclean. '
According to Dr. Joacldii, State In
spector. 200,000 mattlesses In the State,
luiMi bun condemned because they con
tained "Illegal" manuals and did not 1
bear the staudatil I'cluisy h.iula license
tag. of these, tliousiinils have bei u con
fiscated nnd the Molntois tluei.$50 to,
$100 each, ami some sent to Jail. I
FIVE MORE NAVY MEN DEAD, i
Tills Miikes l'roliulile 'Point In '
Memphis Disaster 1 1, 1
Wash iNts my, Sept 1.- .'ie nihil- ,
tlonal names have been added i, the'
list of known dead In the dlsastir to the!
armored cruiser Memphis at Santo Do
mingo cny, iuiukiiik iiio piouniue ueain
list up lo fotty-one.
Hear Admiral Pond reported that
tluee of the ciew of the gunboat Catlue
bad been lost w ith the ship's launch, and '
that two of the men Injured uboaid the I
Memphis when the main steamplpe
burst hail died. The additional dead me,
A. J. Anderson nnd W, L. Planck,
both of the Memphis, and J, F, Priest,
It. K. Garulsoii and J. It. Key more uf
the gunboat Castlue,
Navy olllclals have little hope thnt any
of tho thirty-three missing men will be
found alive, Lieut. Jones, engineer of
ficer of the Memphis, seriously burned
about the face, neck and arms when
the steamplpe burst, Is expected to ic
covcr. Nolncr flrliiKlnv Hack 7 Dead.
Santo Dominuo. Sept, 1, -The hospital
ship Solaco left here this morning for
the Cnlteil State with the bodies of
seven men killed when, the armored
cruiser Memphis was wrecked by a
stotm.
The gunboat Castlue and the navy
trntipport Prairie wers In tho harbor
' here, when tliv Solace departed, :
.
mnri
. . i
Copyright by ltarrl A Enlng.
Senator Oscar W. Underwood of
Alabama, who vigorously assailed
"legislation In the dark" on the
eight hour bill on the floor of the
Senate yesterday.
T. R.'S GUIDE AUTHOR
OF "WEASEL WORDS"
Colonel Never Forgot Expres
sion He Hciml 37 Years
Aro in .Maine.
I.cwistov, Me., Sept. 1. Long after
W'oodrow Wilson has censed to fumble
the ball In Washington people will re
member the charge of "weasel word"
which Theodore Hoosevclt fastened on
htm.
Hoo'cvelt In thl city l.t-t night told
the gercsls of the epresIon. lie was
taking dinner with Hill Sewall, Maine
guide ami woodsman, and lecalled It
wi Hill's brother Dive who put the
Plea or a easel word in bl In ad.
It wn up on Mount Katahdln and It
was thirty-seven i.ir. ago. Dave, who
wa gtiidirg Hoosevclt, described the
sllpprry chaiacter of a man he ktow.
"lie can take a woid and weasel It
around and suck the meat out of It like
a weasel nick an eirg," said Dive.
i:novclt said he never had forgotten
the cvprcslon When he sought for a
phrase to tit Wil-on' case the homely
iliar.ii'teri7.atlon of the Malro woodsman
reclined to him.
"IP's pretty slippery." commented
Hill Sewall whin lfoio-evelt bad told the
-toi . "he'll woik out of hitch like a
gneri fir log."
Hill was referring to. Mr. Wilson, of
course.
LEAP INTO SEA FROM FLAMES.
Wo 1 In Peril In Motor llonl r.i-
lotion Off Atlantic ll. 1
Atlantic r tv. Sept 1 An cp',olo'i I
to-diy abo ml tho cabin ciuler Skibo
when she w.o. the miles from the inlet
badly burned several of her eleven Pa
seligels, and compelled all to b-i'i lutii
the wab r to save their live.. Limit of
tile p.is-'i'tiL'i 1 weie women, among
them Mrs. W. H. Cnderwrind of New
V01I. uly Tw.j men ninl one worn hi
were rushed to the I'lty Il1ii.p1t.1l lere
It was said that the etiglnier, Jiff lies,
probably would not live. The clothe of
sjinc uf the p.irscugers weie bullied from
their bod .s
The Skilm w.n owned by Judge .l-
Mi It. Lnilicott of Atlantic City, who
w.t at the wheel when the accident
ctitiiil. others abo.ml were Mis S,
I. Ireland. I'ini.lngtiirt, N J : Ml
M tr'.un Wilson, i:ahw,i, N. ,1 ; Mr. and
Mis. II Kendall It 1, Philadelphia ,
Miss. Iltitba Taylor, Mirtlnsbiiigh, I'.i.,
and Mis. Allen II. Ilnillcott, Mis. IMith
Lle and Paul llndicott. Atlantic City.
S.iillil. l Ji iTrles, engineer of the boat,
wa tin' last to l ave. Ilu clothing
wa. Ill lllllie, and he I. not expected
ti live lb piobablv would have
drowrxl bad not Paul Lnillcott, who Is
an athlete and captain of this year's
finthai; team at Swarthmore, gone to his
assistance Mrs. I'nileiw oi was badly
sitiiehed anil suffered from sho k. Mrs.
llndicott and Ml-. He.nl were badly
burned.
W. J. PATTERSON HEADS G. A. R.
Is Clccled oniiiiiiitdcr-lii-riilrf as
lllieaiiipiiienl Minis,
Kansas Citv. Mo. Sept 1. William
J I'atteisoii of Pittsburg, Pa., wa
elctiil commander, n-hlef of theiliand
.im n! the Itepubllc at the annual cii
c 1 11 1 1 11 1 it 11 1 hi re tn-ila)
lie suet ceil. Copt ciins It. Monfort
"f Clriunnatl, Tip' enc.iinpiuetii ended
to. night.
CANADA WARNS RAILROAD MEN.
Will He Liable In I'roaeeiillon If
Tlu- TiiUc I'nrt In Slrlkr.
Ottawa, Sept 1 .Minister of Labor
I'rother Issued to-day a warning to rail
way woikcis In I'anadu that they would
be liable to pi nseoullou under the Indus
trial dispute liiM'tU;allon net If they
Joined with American railway workers
In tho tliieateneil strike,
A majoiity of the. Canadian workers
aie alllllaleil with the Aiiietlcan railway
biotlieihoods, Tho Canadian workers,
tho Minister said, should observe tho
Canadian law rather than foreign In
st ructions,
WIImiii NusprmU Ship llrunlatlons.
Wasiiiniiton', Sipt. L - Hy executive
order, President Wilson to-day further
suspended certain restrictions on ndinls.
siou of foreign built ships to American
reglstiy, which would have expired Sep.
tember I. The purpose Is to conOuue at
t ruction of bhlpu to the Amerkun' Hug,
Decisive Ballot in "Upper
' Body Scheduled for 0
o'Cloclc To-night.
SEXATOR UNDERWOOD
LEADS BITTER ATTACK
Shocks Colleagues hy Say
ing Crisis Will Recur in
Six or Ten 3onths.
TWO AMENDMENTS
STUMBLING BLOCKS
Situation Without Parallel
in Congress History
Wilson Departs.
Washington, Sept. 1. Danger of
a national railroad strike, still hangs
in tho balance. Hy n vote of 239 to
S6 tho llouso to-day passed 11 bill,
which is acceptable to tho chiefs of
tho four brotherhoods, providing for
an eight hour day.
Tho Sfnnle, by unanimous consent,
to-night ngvif'l t" tako the Until vols
on tho meiistfl-L' at 6 o'clock to-morrow
evening. Indications slightly favor
its passage u tho upper house, but
the mcasuro wa. storinily debated to.
day, u ml may meet an unexpected
death.
If the 1;!!! !:; parsed !';,' the Seiutti
It will be rushed at once to the Presi
dent for 111 signature, unit the strike
order, set for September A, is expected
to be cancelled at onco.
Shortly after 11 o'clock to-ulglit thu
Senate ugrecd to a proposal by Sena
torator Newlands to clop debate at
4 o'clock to-morrow afternoon mid tn
proceed two hour. later tn a vote nn
the House bill and all iitneinltnetits.
The Senate then .idjourncd until ID
A. M. to-morrow.
Wilson 1. elite Wiitlilneton.
Apparently confident that the stags
l ad been complete'- set f"i' the final uct
of capitulation by Congtos. Piesldeiit
Wilson left for Shadow Lawn, hi. sum
mer home, at il u'clo. I; this afternoon
Arrangement weie made to send the act
tt. him by special 1111 sponger so t. at ho
may nitl his signature without ddav.
Deplte tile fletiient outcries aga list
lobbies from tin- President It I. pr babln
tin situation which prevailed to-day tit
the I'apitol wa without p-iralM 111' tli
hi-tory of emigre. In 11 c.unlltlou al
most of panic both lluUse ploceidetl to
tush through legislation demantltd of
Hem, 110 more and 110 les.'.
With the leiuesentatives of thn four
I rotheihootl seated In a c unnii'tcu room
In the eapltol, "holding their watche,"
as It were, nu the threat to strike. Con
gress hurried to tl th" bnld'iia of tlm
, union men. Amendment often j on thn
floor of t'ongitsjt tt(r 1 ejected oh soon
! in. It was known 1h.1t these labor leader
lad turned thumbs down, amendments,
that round favor In tln-'r ije had sums
chance for consideration,
I llnmllliiiliiii for I oiigrr.
The humiliat! 01 nf the situation
sfenietl to he tV.t by most member 1 of
emigres, but f 1 w of tli in wire cnuia
genus oiough to raise 11 voice of protest.
l"Uio. iat. .1 well a llepu ill an. ad
mitted on the Hour of the Seiintn and
Douse tll.lt the leglslahi'll w.i' of 11 n
etllelgellfV clialacter, Il telldt d t ile'v t
bead nff the strike calbd tr Labor Day.
I t'.al It wa to lio cn.i. tetl mistily niid
1 without dt liberation and With nn eyn
solely tn i'.:u ating the tin ( aienlng rail
load emplovees.
Senator o.car I'lidoi wood. Alabama,
the Democrat c le.ulir, was morn candid
than nn.v of the othci In d.seusslng ths
liglsl.itlon Ho wa tun outspoken to
suit Mr WINou's supporters,
1 Mr. I'ndeivvooil 1 haiup.oucd thl last
effort to get something for tho rail
road anil the public m return for tho
concesoiis that lire being made to nr.
gaulzed labor. He urged nil amendment
emptiwerliig the lnteis,itt. eomnierco
Commission to tlx railroad wages ami
1 another iinieinlmeiii Impo-dug heavy
lienaltle for Intel fcreni with the move
ment of Iraiiis.
I m-Mili or Vole In lliinar.
The icsult of the roll call on the right
hour bill In the House w.i a follow.
M.s ( Demo, i.ilsl M.ercromble,
Adamson, Ae,inili r, .li. n Aluioii, Ash
brook, Aswell, Ans, P.ailcj, llarklev.
llaiuhart, Hochcr, norland, lliuckiier.
Hruinbaugh. liiichaiiaii 1 Illinois), Ilu
elianan iTcsasi, Huiiie t. Is.ih iTcmie.
seel, Caldwell, I '.null, r 1 Mississippi I,
eaiaway, Caiew. e.itll. i'isij, Cllne,
Coady. Collier, council; . Conry, Cos.
j Croser, Ciillnp, li,,e i New Voik), Dav
enport, Dent. Dewiilt, Dickinson, Die.,
DlMip, Doollng, lioollttle Doieinn,
Doilghtoii, Drlscoll. Diipn. l.'gan, ll.igle,
1M wards, llsplnal. Hvaiis, I'.nlej .-i,-i 1
r iir.Kerani, riynii, 1 iallaglier liallivn ,
Handy, Hard, HI.ish, Hotlwln, Hood
win, fjordon, Hiay (Indiana), HiP
till, ll.tinlll, Hamlin. Hardy, Harri
son, Hastings, 1 .i)den, lltllln, llt'
vorlng, llllll.iiil, llollainl, Hood
Hoiision, lloiv.ii.l, 1 1 111 I.I I. ston, llulliti'i,
Hull (Tennessee!, Humphries tM'' -Hi
pjil ) , Igoe. Jacoway, Johnson iK
tuck.v I, Jones, Keating, Ke, Kliicln' ,
Kltciilii, Kouop, l.tslicr, l.cvor, Lew
I .It'll, Llchol, LllltllleUIII, Llltlep.lU
Llotl, Lobeck, McAuilii'WS, Mi'l
Mclllmoie, Maher, Ma.vs, Moiit.l''
Moon, Moss, Murrii), Neely, oldilcM o'
ver, Olney, Ovei liner, I'.nlgelt, P
(North Carolina), l'liel.in, P011, (,n
Hagstlale, Haliiey, Hakcr K.i'
I Hauch, Haluil'il. Kclllv, liionlau, I!
Hubey, Hucker. Husscll (.Missouri!,
ly, Sears, Sjialleiiberger, Sherle.v,
wood, Sims, Slsson, Small, Smith is
York), Sp.u kin.in, Sleag.ill, Slcu
dteols (Iowa), Sleplieu (MIssWs ni'
Stephens (Texas), Stone, Taggatt,
