IMrner
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA,
PBIOJE3 ONJB CJEtffl?
VOIi. n.-NO, 303
PIULADEIiPniA, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1910
Constant, 1010, r the Fcbmo 1. 1 does Cohmst
: c .
RUMANIAN HOST
ADVANCES INTO
HERMANNSTADT
Austrians Unable to
Check Victorious Ad
vance of Foe
GERMANS RUSH TO AID
HARD-PRESSED ALLY
Hindenburg Sends 50,000
Troops to Halt Foe in
Transylvania
SERBS DEFEAT BULGARS
Italians Begin Drive in Albania,
Rome War Office
Announces
Rumanian troops aro sweeping every
thing before them in their victorious
advanco in Transylvania. Bucharest
today reports the occupation of seven
towns, whilo the Austrian "Var Ofllcc
admits the evacuation of Hormannstadt,
former capital and largest city of
Transylvanin. Rumanian artillery is
dominating the Orsovo-Tcmesvar Rail
way, tho main supply route of the Aus
trians near tho Serbian frontier. Tho
Rumanians havo penetrated more than
30 miles into Hungary.
Alarmed by tho successes of tho
Jlusso-Rumaninn armies, Field Marshal
Hindenburg is rushing 50,000
troop3 to tho Transylvanian front, pre
paratory to a desperate effort to check
the new enemy's advance.
Tho Bulgarians resumed their offen
sive in Macedonia, but suffered defeat
at several places at tho hands of tho
Serbians. They have begun tp fall back
toward the north.
' ", troops recaptured part of the
trenrhes. lost to tho Germans northwest
of Dollville wood. Gorman troops occu
pied a few trench elements south of
Estrees. Teuton attacks on tho Verdun
front were ropulsejl by tho French.
AUSTRIANS ADMIT DEFEAT;
QUIT HER3IANNSTADT; FOES
COMMAND SUPPLY. LINE
VIENNA. Sept 2.
Tho Austro-Hungartans havo evacuated
Hermnrmstadt and Sepsl Szent alorgy be
ifore'tt advanco of tho Rumanians Into
Trar anla, tho "War Office admitted to
day. Hermannstadt fa 18 miles Inside tho Hun
garian border. Sepsl Szent Glorgy is 18
miles south of Kronstadt and nearly 30
miles Insldo tho Hungarian border.
BUCHAREST, Sept. 2, Ttumanlan troops
hae occupied the Transylvanian towns of
Kronstadt, Tohaul, Czlsznesog, Tzlcserada
Mouta. Pedeslmva nnd Hermannstadt, It
was officially announced today. Rumanian
artillery Is now dominating the Orsovo
Temesvar railway, the principal supply route
for the. Austrlans near the Serbian frontier,
The Rumanians havo taken 18fl0 pris
oners. Including IS ofllcei-j, and have cap
tured 100 cars of war material at the depot
at Geslmesh.
Hermannstadt, a city of 35,000 Inhabi
tants, lies 12 miles from tho Rumanian
frontier. It Is well built and has a number
of fine public buildings and educational insti
tutions. It was a strong fortress city In
, the Turkish wars and was formerly tho
Beat of an extensive trade with the Hast.
The evacuation of Hermannstadt, to
gether with the evacuation of Kronstadt a
few days ago, gives the Rumanians pos
session of the two principal cities of Tran
sylvania. It Indicates further that the Ru-'
manlans have penetrated the famous Red
Tower pass In their Invasion of Transyl
vania. HINDENBURG RUSHES 50,000
GERMANS TO HELP STOP
ADVANCE OF RUMANIANS
LONDON, Sept. 2.
Fifty thousand German soldiers have
teen sent Into Hungary by Field Marshal
.Von Hlndenbure to help check the advance
of the Rumanians and Russians through
Transylvania, says a Central News Agency
dispatch from Tho Hague today. These
troops are now at Klausenburg, The Aus.
tro-Hungarlans have begun to evacuate
Maros Vasharhely, 66 miles Inside of the
Hungarian frontier?
Violent fighting continues In the Tran
sylvanian Alps, where the Austro-Hun-E&rtaoa
are offering rear-guard engage.
nnta to the main Rumanian forces.
The steady -advance of the Rumanians
continues despite the difficult nature of the
ground through which they are passing and
tne resistance of the. Austro-Hungarian
troops. The fighting is expected to become
Yen more furlo.ua when the Germans sent
Continued on Faro ThreeX Column One
THE WEATHER
For Phxladelphia and vicinity Fair
and cooler tonigkt; Sunday fair and
continued coolf moderate northwest
fntn.de.
XENQTIl OF DAY
Blin !
fiUH st"
fl:28 a.m. I Moon rlui.
6.31 p.m I Moon soutai 3.10 v'.m.
ft 9ft t T
HKMIVIOi. taw.ra... .... ...-..
f -- miut nut. tuanuu
. . VIIKiTHUT STREET
IJ"u water Jr'il m un.i. ,...
IEoV
iJil p.m,
tr. 11:43 a.m iLour water.
W31PCBATCKB AT EACH HQUB
mill 75 f 70
"The Wings of
LEADING POINTS IN WILSON'S
SPEECH OF ACCEPTANCE
The tariff has been revised, not on tho principle of repelling foreign trade,
but upon the principle of encouraging it, upon something like a footing of
equality with our own in respect of tho terms of competition.
American energies are now directed toward tho markets of tho world.
Tho laws against trusts havo been clarified by definition, with a view to
making it plain that they were not directed against big business, but only
against unfair business and the pretense of competition where there was none.
uy tne Jtederai Reserve act tho supply of currency at tho disposal or
active business has been rendered elastic, taking its volume, not from a fitfed
body of investment securities, but from the liquid nssets of daily trade.
Effectivo measures havo been taken for tho rc-crcntion of an American
merchant marine and the revival of tho American carrying trade.
Tho Republican leaders, apparently, know of no means of assisting busi
ness but "protection."
The workingmen of America have been given a veritable emancipation
by tho legal recognition of a man's labor as part of his life, and not n mere
marketable commodity.
In foreign affairs wo havo been guided by principles clearly conceived
and consistently lived up to.
Tho passions and intrigues of certnin active groups and combinations of
men among us who were born under foreign fiag3 injected tho poison of
disloyalty .into our own most critical affairs, laid violent hands upon many
of our industries, and subjected us to the shame of divisions of sentiment and
purpose, in which Americn was contemned and forgotten.
I am the candidate of a party, but I am, above all things else, an Amer
ican citizen. I neither seek tho favor' nor fear tho displeasure of that small
alien clement among us which puts loyalty to any foreign Tower before
loyalty to the United States.
Tho nations of tho world must unite in joint Guarantees that whatever
is done to disturb tho whole world's life must first bo tested in tho courts of
tho whole world's opinion before it is attempted.
Wo havo already formulated and ngrcod upon a policy of law which will
explicitly remove tho ban now supposed to rest upon co-operation among our
exporters in seeking and securing their proper place in the markets of the
world.
At home, also, wo want to seo to it that the men who plnn and develop
and direct our business enterprises shall enjoy definite and settled conditions
of law, a policy accommodated to tho freest progress.
Wo must co-ordinate tho railway systems of tho country for nntionnl
use, and must facilitate and promote their development with a view to that
co-ordination and to their better adaptation as a whole to the life and trado
and defense of tho nation.
The people of Mexico havo not been suffered to own their own country or
direct their own institutions. Outsiders, men out of other nations and with
interests too often alien to their own, have dictated what their privileges and
opportunities should bo and who should control their land, their lives, and
their resources somo of them Americans, pressing for things they could
never havo got in their own country.
The unspeakable Hucrta betrayed tho very comrades ho served, traitor
ously overthrew tho Government of which he was a trusted part, impudently
spoko for tho very forces that had driven his people to tho rebellion with
which ho had pretended to sympathize. The men who overcame him and
drove him out represent at least tho fierce passion of reconstruction which
lies at the very heart of liberty; and so long as they represent, however im
perfectly, such a strugglo for deliverance, I am ready to servo their ends
'whenever I can. So long ns tho power of recognition rests with me, the
Government of tho United States will refuse to extend tho hand of welcome
to any one who obtains power in a sister republic by treachery and violence.
CITY WATER FREE
TO SCHOOLS COSTS
$100,000 YEARLY
Mayor Smith, Learning This,
Says Board of Education
Should Be Made to Pay .
H. R. EDMUNDS AGREES
Figures on Use of Water
by Board of Education
MAYOR SMITH urges action to
compel Board of Education to
pay $100,000 annual water tax to
city. ,
This might necessitate higher
school taxes, according to President
Edmunds and Edwin Wolf, chair
man of tho Finance Committee.
Director Datesman says matter
will bo laid before City Solicitor
with view of forcing the payment.
Estimated that Board of Educa
tion uses 2,500,000,000 gallons of
water yearly,,or 2 per cent of tho
city's total yearly supply.
Estimated that ?100,000 tax pay
ment by Board of Education would
increase net 'profits of Bureau of
Water 10 per cent annually.
Mayor Smith denies that politics
figures in running of tho Bureau of
Water.
Chief Carlcton E. Davis, product
of Blankenburg administration, said
by Mayor Smith to be best engineer
for the position in United States.
iMayor Smith said today he was firmly
convinced tho city should collect approxl-
Lmately $100,000 annually from the Board
of Education for tho large amount of water
used In the Philadelphia school buildings,
now furnished free of charge.
"That is one Important step that should
be taken In solving the water problem In
this city," the Mayor said.
Higher school taxes were predicted by
Henry R. Edmunds, president of the. Board
of Education, and Edwin Wolf, chairman
of Its finance committee. If the board must
pay for water used in the schools.
Director of Public Works Datesman In
dorsed Mayor Smith's view and Intimated
lhat steps soon would be taken to force
the Board of Education to pay a substantial
water tax.
"Consultations on the subject have been,
held," Director Datwmanald, "and the
matter may be put before the City So
licitor with the view of introducing an
ordinance to that effect In" Cpunclls."
The Board of Education, It has beenes-
tlmated officially, uses !,50Q,O00,Q0O gallons
of water yearly In the 330 school buildings
directly under its control in this city.
That amount of water, which represents
3 per cent of the city's tota yearly supply,
would,, cost any private corporation or or
ganization. 1100,000 a year at fixture rates.
Mayor Smith and several other officials, in
cluding Director Datesman, are of Jhe opin
ion that the Board of Education is in every
sense a private organization so far as the
city government Is concerned, and, there
fore,. t is only right that the board should
pay for the water It uses.
Furthermore, tho J1OO.000 water tax
which the Board of Education may be
forced to pay would Increase the net profits
of the Bureau of "Water 10 per cent, accord-
Continued en Pace Two. Column lure
tfte Morning," a
GREECE PREPARES
TO RESIST BULGAR
INVASION BY ARMS
Committee of National De
fense Formed to Take v
Control of Army
ALLIED SHIPS OFF ATHENS
SALONICA, Sept. 2.
A commlttco of national defenso has been
formed in Greece to take over control of
tho army. An order mobilizing tho army
will bo Issued tonight. War against Bul
garia will likely follow.
The Government, having made no re
sponse to tho resolutions adopted at tho
great Venlzclos mass-meeting, a revolution
ary movement has broken out In Salonlca.
The commlttco of national deffnso Is tak
ing tho necessary steps to defend Greek
tcrrltoryfrom tho Invading Bulgarians. Col
onel Zlmbrakls Is at tho head of tho com
mittee. Proclamations hae been Issued to the
Greeks calling .upon them to take up arms
on tho sldo of the national committee of
defense. A special appeal was addressed
td tho gendarmerie In Salonlca.
All the newspapers hero print editorials
indorsing the revolutionary movement.
The establishment of a revolutionary gov
ernment In Greece has beon expected for
somo time, lu view of the growing dis
turbances throughout the country.
It has been fostered by former Premier
Venlzelos, who la opposed to the policies
of King Constantlne. With the Greek
army In the hands of the national com
mittee of defense the King Is without the
power to enforce any measure of I1I3 Gov
ernment.
LONDON, Sept. 3. A great Allied fleet
of 27 vessels Is off Piraeus, tho port of
Athens, and Anglo-French troops aro
patrolling tho Greek capital, according to
dispatches from Salonlca, There Is great
unrest In Athens nnd the people aro wrought
up In favor of tho Entente.
Tho Greek Ministry of Marine -has re
called all officers and men and all leases
of-absence from Greek warships have been
prohibited, says an Athens dispatch to tho
Dally Telegraph today, f
ROME, Sept. 2. The revolution In Greece
Is spreading rapidly throughout Thessaly
and the Eplrus, said a wireless dispatch
today. Martial law has been proclaimed
at Athens and In the Piraeus, the dispatch
said.
The condition of King Constantlne, who
13 III,'
Is reported serious.
BURN "THE ARSENAL,"
SAYS CORONER KNIGHT
"Why Run Such a Cancerous
Spot?" He Asks John Quigley,
Manager, 1329 Vine Street
n r
Burning of tho "Arsenal," notorious
hang-out for drug addicts and "dope"
fiends, at Tenth and Winter streets, was
advocated today by Coroner Knight, fol
lowing an Inquest Into trie, death of Tony
'Bova, 24 years old, 1329 Vine street, who
last Thursday was stricken, with heroin
poisoning In the "Arsenal" and died a few
hours later In Hahnemann Hospital
The Coroner advocated the destruction of
the "dopesters" meeting place by flroafter
policemen and deteothes had testified to
finding scores of young men. and women in
scanty attlro In tho "Arsenal under tho
Influence of drugs. Addressing John
Continued on I'a.c I(m. Column Tare
Great Serial Story
WILSON SEEKS
RE-ELECTION ON
PARTY RECORD
Notified of Renominaiion,
He Says People Wish to
Retain Democracy
PROUD OF ACHIEVEMENTS
Mexican and Foreign Policies
Defended Work of Con- '
gross Praised
By ROBERT J. BENDER
LONG BRANCH, N. J., Sept 2. Presi
dent Wilson spoko for his re-election today.
Before an Immcnso crowd massed over tho
beautiful grounds of Shadow I.an tho
President accepted his rcnomlnatlon at tho
hands of tho Democratic party, outlined tho
achievements of his Administration nnd
scored tho Republicans ns "a party of mas
terly Inactivity, standing pat to resist
change."
Tho Democratic party, tho President said,
holds to ery definite- Ideals.
"Wo believe tho energy and Initiative of
our pcoplo should bo set freo nB wo have
Bet them free," ho said, "and not concen
trated In tho hands of a few powerful
guardians, ns our opponents lmo again
nnd again sought to concentrato them."
Tho day of "llttlo Americanism, with Its
narrow horizon, when methods of 'protec
tion' nnd industrial nursing wcro tho chief
studies of our provincial statesmen, aro
past and dono," he said.
Tho people, ho said, would not reject
"those who haio actually served them"
for "thoso who nro making doubtful and
conjectural promises of service."
LAUDS RECORD OP CONGRESS.
Outlining tho leglslatlvo record of h!n
party, tho President said the Democrats
havo lrtualiy created commercial credit
for the farmer, had "given a. veritable
emancipation" to tho worklngman, had re
leased tho children of tho country from
"hurtful labor" nnd, In addition to many
other things, had put through national do
fenso legislation greater than ever "seri
ously proposed upon tho responsibility "of
an entire political party."
And, ho concluded In this discussion, "wo
have come very near to carrying out tho
platform of, tho Progressive party as well
a3 our own; for wo also are progressives."
Tho President said his foreign policy was
built on two fundamental principles that
property rights can bo vindicated by claims
for damages, but "that tho loss of life Is
irreparable."
NO FEAR OP ALIEN ELEMENT.
"I neither seek the favor nor tho displeas
ure of that small alien clement among us
which puts loyalty to any foreign Power
ocroro loyalty to tho United States," he
said.
The President advanced his Mexican pol
icy as an. Issue upon which ho would stand
in the fnco of any criticism. While admit
ting tho possibility of mistakes "in this per
plexing business," ho flayed thoso who
would havo recognized tho "unspeakable
Huerta."
Senator Olllo M. James, of Kentucky,
Continued on Tare Four. Column Two
GARDNER AND EVANS
PAIRED FOR AMERICAN
G0LFET TROPHY TODAY
Entry List Complete for the
Amateur Tournament Which
Begins on jtferion Course
Monday Morning
BIG GALLERY PRESENT
By SANDY McNIBLICK
MERION GOLF CLUB, Pa., Sept. I.
With the arrival of Robert A. Gardner,
present tltleholder, and Chick Evans, open
champion, the field of contestants for the
amateur championship of the United States
Is about complete. The opening event of
the big show began at 9:30 this morning
when Eben M. Byers, champion In 1916,
and his clubmate, J, B. Rose, of Allegheny,
were the first starters for the American
golfer trophy. Paired with them were H. T.
Cook and C. lu Maxwell, representing the
Trenton Country Club.
The American gojfer trophy Is awarded
tp the club pair having the best ball for
the 18 holes of tho championship course
and the event 'is run off Just before the
classic
Last year It was captured by Thomas
and Sherrlll Sherman, of Vahundasls, on
the play off with Max Marston and C. E.
Van Vleck, Jr., Baltusrol. The two teams
tied with a best ball of 70 at Detroit. Both
pairs are on hand this year, determined
to repeat their record of last year.
MANY TEAMS
Last year Fine Valley waa the only local
club that played a team lq the competition,
but this year nearly every local club has
raised a team and the chanca of a Phila
delphia club landing the trophy la by no
means an. outside one.
A big crowd followed Gardner and Evans.
Gardner's driving was all that could be de
sired, but his sore finger hurt considerably
When making his iron shots. The best ball
of the pair going out was 39, which is not
good .enough, unless they do something very
ContlaiMd on Pat Thirteen, Column Six
y Louis Tracy,
QUICK
BROOKLYN.
PHILLIES...
0
0
NATIONAL LEAGUE
NEW YORK O 3 10 0
BOSTON,lstE....,.o 10 0 0
Penltt nnd Hnridcu; Tyler and Gowdy.,
CINCINNATI, 1st g.O 12 0 0 0
PITTSBURGH O 0 0 0 0 2
Knetzcr nnd WIngoj Haimon and rishor.
CHICAGO, lstg
ST.LOUISS
,
WILLIAMS DEFEATS WATTERS ON COURTS
i
TOEEST HILLS, N. Y., Sept. 2. P.. Nonls Williams, 2d, for
mer national champion, won his mntcli today fiom Doiiglna S. Wal
ters, southern champion, 3-G, 0-1, 0-1, 0-2. Williams played an lu
dlffcient flist set, but won lac next three easily.
VIRGINIA WOMAN KILLED? AUTO DITCHED ,
NORFOLK, Va., Sept. 2. Mis. Vernon Dawsonf of Norfolk,
va3 tntally Injuied and three other persona were dangciously hiurt
when an automobile In which they were returning from Ocean View
caily today waa ditched. All wcro removed to a Norfolk hospital
where Mrs. Dawson died.
FAY POSSIBLY CAPTURED IN CORINTH, MISS.
CORINTH, Miss., Sept. 2. A man closely answering tho
description of Lieutenant Robert '.ray, who escaped from thctlauta
Prl&on a few days ago with William Knoblock.Us Toeing field liafe.ti-
day by the police. ' '.
$3,000,000 OIL COMPANY FORMED AT DOVER '
, , r
DOVER, Del., Sept. 2. The North American Oil nuct' Bgfintng
Corporation, to drill for oil, natural gas. and their products, wa in
corporated here today with a capital stock of 83,000,000. The Incor
porators aie Irving H. Wheatcroft, Oklahoma City, Olsla,; Thomas A.
Nevlns, East Orange, N. J.; Herbert E. Latter, Norman1 P. Coffl,
Harris T. Tarrow, Wilmington, Del. .
ALT00NA WATER FORBIDDEN ON P. R! R. TRAINS
1
HARRISBURG, Sept. 2. Dr. Samuel q. Dixon, State health
commissioner, today notified the Pennsylvania RailVoad Company ;iot
to fill , drinking water tanks on Its trains with watervtaken trora the
mains in Altoona unless the water is boiled, steamed or distilled,
because of prevalenco of typhoid fever In Altoona.
HOUSE VOTES TODAY ON EXPORT TRADE BILL
WASHINGTON, Sept. 2. The House this afternoon resumed
debate on the Webb bill to promote export trade, which would author
ize the formation of foielgu co-operative selling agencies. There was
every prospect that the measure would pass the House this afternoon,
the expectation being that a vote would be taken 7 3 o'clock.
4Q00 GENERAL ELECTRIC MEN STRIKE
PITTSPIBLD, Mass., Sept 2. Four thousand workers of the General ElectrJo
plant struck this morning, for a 10 per cent increase In wages and because of minor
grievances.
B. & O. AND READING WILL LIFT EMBARGOES TOMORROW
Announcement waa made today by the Baltimore and Ohio and the Phila
delphia and Reading Railroads that the4 embargo placed upon perishable goods
a few days ago probably would bq lifted by Sunday night. The Pennsylvania,
according to an announcement mado from the offices of that road this morning,
denies that It Is about to lift the embargo, but says that, as recently announced, the
embargo on perishable goods will go Into effect at the end of today.
PERE MARQUETTE SYSTEM TO BE REORGANIZED
LANSING, Mich.. Sept. 2. Plans for complete reorganization of the Pere Mar-
,quette system, involving an Issue of J105.000.000 In new securities to be exchanged
wttn stocKhoiaers ror present securities totalling JlH.i33.ti63, were approved today
by the Michigan State Railroad Commission- Under the .new plan nxed interest
charges of the road will be reduced from J4.000.000 annually to Jl, 500,000, Pur
pose of the reorganization Is to prevent dismemberment of the various branches of
the system by warring factions of bondholders.
'j
AMERICAN REFUGEES REACH LAREDO '
LAREDO. Tex., Sept. 2. Three American refugees, Mr. and Mrs. X W. Wilson,
of Rodriguez, 70 miles west of Ta'mplco. Mexico, and Mrs. J. W. King arrived here
today. They said that their property had been destroyed by Mexican bandits about
two months ago.
PENNYPACKER'S CONDITION CONTINUES CRITICAL
Ex-Governor Pennypacker's condition continues critical, said Dr. H. Cro3key
Allen today. The Governor's family Is again at his home In Schwenkvllle.
Begins on Page
NEWS.
mmmr'
1
l
N Y.
ivv'
r
S
5 of Todays
'COERCION CRY
IN DEBATE ON
8-HOUR BEL
Senator Sherman, of Illi
nois, Assails Bail Brother
hoods Men
RESENTS "DICTATIONS'
Eight-Hour Day Bill Nay
Be Signed by Midnight
WASHINGTON, Sept B.
BY NIGHTFALL a new Federal
eight-hour day law is expected
to be part of the law of the land so
far as the Senate can make it.
By midnight it is expected to be
complete, bearing tho President's
signature.
Six o'clock is the hour set for the
vote in the Senate and a special mes
senger is ready to rush tho measure
to tho President at Shadow Lawn,
the summer White House, at Long
Branch, N. J. '
WASHINGTON, Sept 2-Just 'as
Boon as the House eight-hour bill un
amended "becomes a law," the railroad
brotherhoods will cancel their national
strike order.
A. B. Garrctson, spokesman for the
unions, made this announcement this
afternoon, though he dodged a question'
as to whether it would be Issued directly
after Congress completes its work on
the measure.
WASHINGTON, Sept 2. A dramatic at
tack on the "coercing of Congress by the
railroad brotherhoods," by Senator Sher
man, of Illinois, today marked tho final de
bate In the Senate 'on legislation designed
to prevent a natlon-wklo railroad ntrllto on
Monday. Despite a bitter argument pre
cipitated by Senator Sherman's vltroltc
'speech, Senato leaders wcro confident that
tho Administration strike bill would pass
tho t Senato Iveforo adjournment tonight
Senator Sherman followed up his recent
attack on Samuel Gompcru, president of tha
American Federation of labor, by roundly
denouncing ,tbo railroad brotherhoods. lie
declared that tho brotherhood heads, with
their ''hands at the throat of CongrcssV.
had forced tho. legislation now pending.,,
"SURRENDERING" TO TRAINMEN.
"I will never submit," he said "to the
domination.' of any class of men In this
country, be they labor union leaders or rep
resentatives 'of employers. The Congress
of the United States Is about to bo put
In the position of servilely surrendering to
four brotherhoods whose ultimatum has
been delivered."
Senator 'Sherman dashed Into the debat
after a long absence from the Senates II
declared that the proposed legislation was
futile.
"You are building this legislative struc
ture on the sands," he said, rand when the
storm comes It will fall." '
Senator Sherman, of Illinois, JItterIy de
nounced rushing tho bill into legislation la
a few hours, when there should be days of
deliberation. "Wo ara doing this under
threat"
To prove his point he read several tele
grams from large labor unions of the Mid
dle West pleading with him to urge pass
age of the eight-hour bill and to oppose any
form of compulsory arbitration.
"SHOW WAY WIND BLOWS"
"I would rather bo a dog and bay at tha
moon." ho said, "than be a Senator enslaved,
by such dictations and threats. These mes-
.sages show tho way tho wind bjqws by
demanding that I urgo Government owner,
ship of roads."
Sherman read other telegrams., one, from
Joe Bums, of the White Rats (an actors'
association), of Chicago, and one from
bookkeeper, of the same place. Burns
urged passage of the eight-hour law. "This
means," continued Sherman, "that If we
legislate for the railway employes, we'll
have to do it for every other'Iabor organ
ization. It will never end. , We might as
well wipe the Interstate Commerce Com
mission out of existence.,
'The poor bookkeeper In Chicago gets the
true sense of this whole situation When he
wants me to vote against it lie pays If
Congress passes this bill it will have to
keep on. wth other poor bookkeepers paying '
the price."
While' Senator Sherman denounced the
labor leaders, the four brotherhood chiefs,
Oarretson, of the Conductor; Stone, of the
Engineers; Lee, of tha Trainmen, and Car
ter, of the Firemen, came to the Capitol
and prepared to remain in close touch with
the Senate until 'the final vote was taken.
They conferred with various leaders of botl.
House and Senate. The brotlitihood luid
ers prepared to revoke the outstanding
Strike order Just as soon as the .eight-hour
bill had been agreed upon by the Senate.
CLASH OVER AMENDMENT
The Senate debate centered largely c
the proposal of Senator Underwood to em
power the Interstate Commerce Commtsstaa
to regulate wages; and hours of labor on
the railroads of the country. Senate eadT
ers said, nowever, that the Underwood
amendment would be tUfeaUd arid that tha
simple eight-hour bill as passed by tha
House would N agreed to by Ut &Miate
"Bllsh Lee, chairman jt Hw iWtloi!
conference committee oCrllraS wutagM
and 3. It'gheeian, advber nt lib wramHn
tee, occupied seats ia the HwUW gAlfer
throughout the delate,
Soator ThojKaa, of Ctitmt.tM6 tta
"anti-vloleneu stctloa e the anwta W5t
as an aiaowJisuwt to U Atomaett cti& ,,J'yl
Evening Led
