, . rasa
.
' ??' ' *
TK?? ?Ri rftrit mrr* ?Tiirn>c? "?"SS^
^a^ga/s1-- ? . JUU)WU?llU Ql/lUi^'p^ip^lCJj
66th YEAR JSSSEJ* RICHMOND, VA., SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1916. ?TEN PAGES. CLOUDY i'KlCE, TWO CENTS.
KING OF GREECE
YIELDS THRONE
10 CROWN PRINCE
Kis Abdication Reported by
British Official Press
Representative.
PREMIER ZAIMIS TO STAY
AT HEAD OF GOVERNMENT
Greeks, Friendly to Entente,
Force Surrender of Greek
Garrison at Saloniki.
ANOTHER RUSSIAN ADVAXCK
Germans Claim Inoccupation of F/ost
Ground Near Dclville Wood,
on Sonunc Front.
Greece Reported
as Joining Allies
linolHi'lul dlnpntehem reachlug1 Lon
don, which npparcntIv hnvr lirrn
much cvitNiirril, Iiikc been Hint
Greece I win abandoned her neutrality
nnd thrown her lot on tll(. M|,|^ ?f
the entente (illicit. Whether Greece
linn already ileelnreil ?nr In proli
lematli'iil, ax |* the nation or iintlnnH
to whnm .she litis thrown dou n the
Rnuntlet.
LONDON*. September 1.? Greece, the
only Balkan nation not .vet In the Kti
ropean war. Ik in a turmoil it Is re
ported that Kmc ('onstantiiie has
abdicated, and that the crow,, prlnoo
has been named as his successor. with
former Premier Venlzeloh ,ip the power
behind the throne. The British For
eign Office Fays it has no confirmation
of the King'** abdication.
An entente !l<-?-t of twenty-three war
ships and sevett transport- reported
off Piraeus. the port of Athens. A din-'
patch from Athens s.v,. it h probable
that the Greek elections, set for < >cto
ber s, %\:U postponed f.>t- fort
night.
The Greek garrisons ;.t Saloniki. at
^0< nl and at Fort Little Karaburrjn
have surrendered to a committee which
has taken ovei th>; administration of
part of Greek -Macedonia, according to
dispatches from Saloniki. The revolt
in Saloniki confirmed by the British
Foreign Office. Greeks frienillv to the
entente surrounded the barracks of the
Greek infantry in Saloniki, and are said
to have exchanged shots with them.
General Sariml. allied commander at
Saloniki. intei vchH to prevent further
bloodshed.
Russian troops !;iv. be^un another
advance, and i'etro^rail reports llght
ing In Nolhynia and in 'i.tll ia The
Russians :is? have seized Ax series of
heights in tl- '"nrpathians. and are
mo\ lng westward alortu the Hotittiantan
border of Bukowsna Petrograd claims
the capture of about lrt. ?<?<> prisoners
ADMIT It I SMA\ IM<ri(;it |;vs
\\ i:sr of ta it Miroi,
A withdrawal of the Austro-Germa-i
linos south ??( the Zlota Lipa - Dniester
section is recorded by ll.?]in progress
by the Russians west of Tarnopol is
admitte,). l.ut rtu ? :? n attacks in the
Carpathians and near l^utsk were re
pulsed, Betlm says
^ti Al.i.inia Italian t roo ps advancing
along the \ oyus.i Bivet have occupied
Tepeleni. Rome says that two villages
were stormed and |>ris.ine:.s were taken
In the fighting alotig the Voyusa.
The Germans report the reoccupation
of lost ground near the Delville wood,
on the So mine front The British War
OfTlce admits a German advance, but
says the attackcrs sustained severe
losses. On the rest of the f-oi. in
France there has been little activity.
No flgj-ting is repotted In Macedonia,
and there are no l.ite reports oil the
operations in Transylvania.
Petr^grad claims the repulse of Turk
ish attacks west of Frzingan. The rout
of more than two divisions of Russians
by the Turkish left wing is reported
by Constantinople. Prisoners to the
number of 5,000 were captured by the
Turks.
German forces in German Fast Africa
are In full retreat, lieutenant-General
Smuts, {he British commander there,
reports. Mrogoro, seat of the German
government, has been occupied bv the
British.
PR ESS It K I' It ??'.*> K Vf.A TlV I:
nUI'tlltTS KING'S AIIDICATIOV
-v LONDON', September 1.?King Oon
stantine of Greece has abdicated, ac
cording to the British ofllcial press
representative at Saloniki.
Tho press representative says the
King has abdicated in favor of the
crown prince, with Vcnizelos as tho
power behind the throne. The new
policy, he reports, will be to work 1
with the entente allies.
According to this information, Pre
mier Zaimis will remain at the head
of the government.
The correspondent questions whether
the entente a^ies desire the active as
sistance of Greece. ? '
Various rumors are in circulation
here in regard to the situation in I
Greece.
Reuter dispatches from Saloniki say
there has been fighting between the
Greek garrison at Saloniki and Greek
volunteers recently organized to as
sist the Greek regulars who are re
sisting tho Bulgarians in Macedonia.
French troops intervened to suppress
the fighting, nnd tho garrison finally
surrendered and marched out of
Saloniki.
-Regarding the report from Saloniki
that King Constant ine has abdicated.
gfcOreek minister tit London said to
of this city. The cerenio.....
place on Thursday evening* Septet.?*!
14, at the Presbyterian Church In thia
City,
Abdicates Throne
KINc; < (IXSTA \TI XK OK <- H i;K(.K.
ENTENTE ALLIED FLEET
REPORTED OEF PIRAEUS
Startling News ?>f Arrival Comes in
Uri^f Dispatches From
Athens.
(iK.N'KIUI, KLKCTIOXS DELAVKD
Developments Awaited With Greatest
Curiosity in London?Some Ob
servers Believe Government Will
Align With Kntente.
LONDON. i>cptfcmber 1.?After two
days of silence in telegraphic com
inunlcatir.ii with Athens, durir.g which
rumors of a revolution have gained
currency. but .* .thou! confirmation,
??nines the starl'ing news of the ar
rival of an rnte.i'e allied fleet with
! transports at Piraeus. and that the
| general election}-: will i>e postponed for
a fortnight.
The brevii .? of the dispatches seems
] .(? indicate that something unusual is
(happening. and developments are
awaited with the greatest curiosity
. here. It is deduced by some observers
; that changes of decisive character al
ready have taken place in Athens, and
th.it * lie i;ret-k de facto government
: has decided to abandon neutrality and
j ulign itself on the side of the entente.
; others take t more conservative v;ew.
The Times attaches small importance
I to Wednesday's i evolutionary move
j inent at Salonlki, declaring this is
overshadow<-<l by the news of the ap
! pearance of entente allied ships off
I 'it aeu.
"This must be taken to indicate."
it says. "th.it tlie allies are wearied
of the equivocations which so lone
; have prevailed in Athens, and ;>re re
| solved to battle the intrigues their
enemies."
The Chronicle discusses what it
; terms the great difficulties former
Premier Venizelos must encounter in
an endeavor to guide Greece. It says:
"The Greek army is anything but
ready for action: firstly, because it
: has just been mobilized, and, secondly.
| because the personnel of its higher
j comm:?nds and a large portion .-.f its
! officers' corps are in the melting pot,
I having been heretofore led by staffs
largely composed of pro-Oerrnan offi
cers. The whole army now is in a
serious state of demobilization. The
case of the nation is similar."
VESSEL IN DISTRESS
I'nienwntiirv fall* IMekcd fp iij
Sfenmers. W lilcli Cannot Make
Out \iiitir or I.oca t toil.
WASHIMITON. September 1.?Two
I steamers reported to the Navy Depart
1 ment to-day thai they had picked tip
wireless distres.- calls this morning in
the vicinity of Cristobal. Canal Zone,
which apparently come from a naval
vessel. The calls were fragmentary,
i and the steamers could not make out
? the name or location of she distressed
j ship. The na\y instructed the <>uan
j tanamo station to send broadcast a
! wireless appeal to all vessels in
! southern waters to investigate.
Unusual wave lengths characterizing
the wireless call for help convinced ilia
masters of both of the steamers that
it came from a naval vessel. Depart
ment officials said they had no previous
report of trouble of any sort to any
naval craft. Most of the Atlantic Fleet
is in Northern waters, hut several
cruisers, gunboats and deut royers are
ill (he Gulf and off the West (tidies.
The steamers which picked up the
distress signal were 'he Panama Hail
way Company's.! liner Alliancia, and the
steamer Zapata. The former was 20ft
miles north of Cristobal and the latter
1.10 miles from that port. It was shortly
after ti o'clock.
50 LIVES LOST IN HURRICANE
DrltlNli Weft Indian Ihtiiml of Doininlcn
Visited t?y DcMtructCve
Sform.
ST. THOMAS. DANISH WEST IN
DIES. September 1 ?Fifty li^es were
lost in a hurricane which struck the
Brl(lsh West Indian Island of Dominica
last Monday night. The winTl reached
a velocity of more than seventy miles.
Rivers in the island rose to unpre
cedented heights, and carried away
bridges and culverts. Some streams
changed ^their courses, and swept
through fields and villages, carrying
away houses with their occupants.
The number of houses, schools,
churches f v* "\ther Vj-'AjJings wrecked
i Hi
Convinced Congress Will Pass
Eight-Hour-Day Law Before
Date Set for Strike.
MANY OF EMPLOYEES LOYAL
Executives Announce Widespread
Defections From Ranks
of Brotherhoods.
CHICAGO. September !.?Convinced
that Congress will force thein to sur
render, presidents of Important rail
roads to-night ordered rescinding or
modification of the freight embargo
established in preparation for a gen
eral railway strike. At the same time,
these railroad executives announced
defections from the ranks of the rail
way brotherhoods, and declared they
had enough men to operate trains,
strike or no strike. This was denied
by broth<nhoo<l olllcials.
llale Ilolden, president of the Chi
cago, Burlington and Quiney, spokes
man for the railroads in the conference
with President Wilson, said the rail
roads are convinced Congress will force
through tiie elght-honr-day law before
the date set for the strike, but that
they arc taking no( chances. "It seems
?is though io-jji?}>t, .in;ress will make
us surrender." lie .-i id. "The Burling
ton and other r?a{ ? have felt to-day
that there is little Chance for a strike
now. V.". u re rcroking the embargoes,
so as not to inconvenience the shippers.
The strike order must be actually re
voked before we let up in our precau
tions. We have men enough 'o run
our trains."
Modifications ? >f the freight embargo
were announced here by the Ki ie and
!h" Rock Island systems. Other roads
were expeqted t?? t:ike similar action
within .1 few hour; t
W" i 1 the i-ailroad executives were
clalmlnc the defection of thousands of
brotheriiood members, officials of the
unions, through Timothy Khea, vice
president of the Brotherhood of Fire
men and l?uginemen. said the railways
hal>itually circulate such stories and
th?-y have no fears their men would
not obey the strike call.
ito.\us t nr.\T o.\ i.oyai.ti
or AIIOI T ?."? l?Klt I K.VT OK >IE.\
Polls of employees who are members
of the unions were practically com
pleted. and, in general, the roads said
they were able to count on the loyalty
of about 25 per cent of their trainmen,
??ven if the strike order is not revoked.
The most startling of the announce
ments came from the general offices of
the Atchison, Topeka ami Santa Fc in
.! statement th.it th* four brother
hood engineers, firemen, conductors
and' trainmen?would hold meetings to
night to request the heads of their
itiions at \V. : hin?ton to i evoke the
; t r i k ?* ? ? r d r
In addition, suits f<>r injunctions
against, calling strikes were tiled by
individual brotherhood members in va
rious parts of the country, including
a number of Santa Fe trainmen em
ployed in Texas'
The Minneapolis and St. I.ouis Hail
road. at Minneapolis, stated that engi
neers of that toad would remain .it
work to a man. averrinc" that the vote
necessary to make a s.rik" imperative!
had not been taken President Calvin,
of the I'nion Pacific, at Omaha, an
nounced that the encineers of that line
would remain in. holding themselves j
not to be involved in the movement,
and stated that a very large per cent J
of conductors and trainmen would re- j
main. The general managers of the \
Minneapolis. St. Paul and Saulte Ste. |
Marie road stated that assurances of i
loyalty had been received from 40 peri
cent of th" trainmen, and that the j
engineeis and firemen of the road did!
not take the strike vote because of
a three years' contract.
ation wii.i, opposk
sTitiwi: mkfohf. (
? ?lie thousand conductors ? ? f the
Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul t?-1 -
graphed President Garretson, of the,
brotherhood, that they would not walk
out if ordered to do'so, and a delega
tion of conductors of the Chicago and |
Northwestern was en route to Wash- [
inglon to oppose a strike before Con
gress and the brotherhood heads.
At Louisville, Ky., lifteen Louisville
and Nashville conductors obtained an j
injunction to* restrain calling of a!
strike on that road, asserting that the
conductors of the road voted against
it. and that a strike would be con-j
trary io the public policy.
II. 10. Byratn. vice-president of the
Burlington Railroad, stated that ap
proximately 2i> per cent of brotherhood '
members employed on that road had
given promises of remaining at work.
General Manager Gordon, of the
Chicago-Great Western, stated that 20
per cent of his train crews would re
ma in.
"A large number would remain"
with the Chicago and Rock Island, it I
was stated at the headquarters of that
company.
From St. l.ouls came reports that 1
roads with headquarters there were
preparing to run trains. These in
cluded the Missouri, Kansas and Texas,
the Kansas City, Mexico and Orient :
Railroad and the Missouri Pacific-Iron
Mountain system.
From St, Paul it \vas announced that (
the Great Northern, the Northern Pa- 1
clflc, and the Chicago, St. Paul, Minne
apolis and Omaha Railroads with head
quarters there would, should the strike
order go into effect next-Monday, r oi !
one passenger train each way daily on
every division of their respective lines.
In addition to passengers, the roads
plan to handle milk, mall and express
on theso passenger lines, which will
run on daylight schedules, oxcept In
V?/</?ptjnental trains.
PUBLIC IS WITH
LOYAL EMPLOYEES
Will Thank Men Who Refuse to
Strike, Says Chamber's
President.
ALL ROADS UNDER EMBARGO
Fairfax Harrison and W. H.
White Make Final Appeal
to Operating Forces.
With :irr;in^cmcntb complete for the
i continuance of service in a curtailed
; form should all negotiations fall ami
ilie national strike order become effec
tive. local railroad offices rested on
their oars yesterday. Freight sheds
( registered a new high mark of con
j ge.stioK, shippers displaying marked
i anxiety to get 'Oiisignment.s under way
( before the falling of freight embargoes'.
In contrast to the strained atmos
! phere that obtained in the offices of
'directing offi> ial? earlier in the week,
there was evide'-.t yesterday a growing
optimism. Steps had been taken to
: meet the worst, and there was cor
responding relief at the reasonable
prospect that .1 crisis would he averted.
; Notwithstanding the fact that the
Atlantic Coast I.'.ne Railroad yesterday
declared an embargo, directive at mid
night last ni^lit. against all freight for
all destinations, there was a growing
j belief late in the afternoon among
| local officials that effoi.s would prob
i ably be made shortly to modif> the
embargoes already in fonc>.. Reports
i reaching Richmond last night were to
, the effect t,i,.t such action had been
taken bv a number of the Western
. roads.
PRHSIDHXT \\ OUT HAM IlKl.Ii: VIOS
1*1 III.H IS Ati.VIXST S'I'll IKK
Most comforting o. all of yesterday's
?developments from the railroad point
' of view was 1 letter from President
' Coleman Wortham. <*f the Chamber of
Commerce, addressed to President Wil
liam H. White, of the Richmond. Fred
ericksburg and Potomac, in which h'e
expressed his personal belief that the
citizens of Richmond would view with
approval the action of employees who
should remain loyal to the company
the event of a strike.
Mr. Worth?m's opinion was invited
: by President White, who suggested that
in view of the far-reaching character
of the impending crisis and its im
mediate relation to the putlic, a state
ment from him at this tim? would be
?i>f distinct service in influencing proper
I public sentiment.
In his letter to Mr. Wortham. Presi
dent White said, in part:
; "The public whom this company
serves, the industrial life of the com
munity in which you reside, the busi
ness interests with which you n-e
identified, are, wholly or in part, di
rectly or indirectly, threatened with
transportation paralysis. In this emer
gency, a very considerable number of
employees encaged in the occupations
covered in part by the brotherhoo la
have expressed themselves as being de
sirous of remaining at work in their
several vo.aJons, If an employees
were given dearly to understand that
such action ij>,.n their pt would meet
with the approbation and support of
the public, and the community In
; which they reside, a very much larger
j number would unquestionably remain
| at work.
a im?i:ai.s i-'oii c?i xsi:i,
I*. .VA'I'IOXA I, I 'It ISIS
"Your moral influence at this time
j will he of incalculable henefit and as
j sistance. and, as a believer in fair
play and a square deal, you may ren
der a distinct and vital service to th PS**
sorely beset men by counsel.ng with
them as friends and neighbors, to re
main on duty and exert their influence
toward having the matters in contro
versy arbitrated.
"This company stands squarely upon
such a platform. It cannot hope for
th* support of the public if it has not
Justice and fair dealing on its side. It
does not ask for that which it is not
willing to concerto. .
"Taking cognizance of tins situation,
in which, as ihe third party in interest
vou ha ve now become involved, are;
yon willing. jn the line nf pui,. 1
(Continued on SecoWd page.)
What You May Expect
- in Your Sunday Paper
"The War's I.csson to I'm of What
Ileal Preparedness Mrnnii," by Dr.
Wood* Hutchinson, the world'* fore
most ph> slelun-nuf lior.
"The Varied Romances of Our
I.atest American Peeress," telling I
bow Ihe heart of n (a I (for 11 In
beauty was lost to the Knrl of Pot
tenliani.
".Medical Science's Astonishing
New Division of Humanity Into
Tiger-Men and tlx-Men"?which nre
,vnil t
"How the Mother Police Panes j
Are Judged," workings of a secret I
tribunal which In saving girls from
e* II and mothers from disgrace.
"Simplicity lints and Dresses." a
page for woman's eye, created by !
the famous l.ndy DntT tiorilon, dc
scrihing new outlines of fall fash
ions.
"How War Has Afforded l->mln
Ism a Pliance to Hencli Its Aim,"
another study of social conditions
in Knrope, by Mas Nor dan.
"HIIIj'h ? Romance," a full-|ingc
llriitrlce Palrfnx story, with the 1
human interest loucli she alone !
knows how to give.
These nre Jnst a few of the fea
tures which will help to make up I
the big Sunday edition of
The Times-Dispatch
Order your copy to-day.
STRIKE AVERTED,
SEEMS ASSURED
Vote in House, on Final Passage of
Amended Adamson Eight-Hour Bill
WASHINGTON, September 1.?The
olllclul tote in the lloiihi' on the final
|iiiN!<UKe of the amended Adnmson
elKht-liotir-diiy bill wast ayes,
miyi, 5(1; present, 5. Two Dt-moi'riitH
voted against Mie l>lll, ii 1111 seventy
IC ?-)>ii I> I leans ii ii <1 (lie one Socialist
voted for It. .>niif of tin* I'roBri1*
SlVfK VOtCll.
The re.xult of the roll cull f??l
lon h :
Aye* j Democrats? A hereromble,
Adamson. Alexander. Allen. Allium,
Ashbrook. Aswell Ayrew. Ilnlley,
Itarkley. Ilnrnliart, Hooher. Borlnml.
Hruekner, llrunibnuKh, Iliielinnnu.
IIIIiioIn; lluehutuiii, Ti'Siwi Burnett.
ISvriis, Tennessee! Caldwell, Cand
ler. Mississippi: Caraway. Carew,
(arlin. Casey, Cllne. Coady. Collier,
< on nelly. Conry, Cox. Crimiier. Ctil
lop. Dole. New York; Davenport,
Dent, Dew nit. Dickinson. Die*. IJlx
on. Dueling. Daolittle. IlorenMin,
Doueh ton. Drlseoll. Dupre. Kalian.
Muscle. Ktlwnrdiii Kstnplnnl. Kvnns,
Farley. Field*. Fll/.sernld. Flynn.
(iullnulier. Malllvaii. (ijindy. Mitril.
Class. Mod win. Mood win, Mordou.
Cray. Indiana; (irlllln. Hamlll. Ilnm
I In. Hardy. Harrison. Hastings, liny
ilea. Hetlin, Ilcivcrlnff. Hlll!a.rd. IIol
|jin?l. Ilooil. Houston. Ilownril, lluil
illcston. Iliilhcrt. flull, Tenuesxeei
Humphreys. Mississippi; Ipne. Jaen
?ny, .luhnsun, Kentucky; .lone*,
Keatlnu. Key, Klnehcloe, Kltclilii.
Kounp, l.eslicr, I.ever, Mewls, l.lcli,
l.icbcl, l.lnthlcum. Iilttlcpnite, I,lord,
l.olieek. .lli'Anilrens Met"IlntIc, Mi1
l.emore. .M niter, Muyn, Montnciie,
Moon. Moss. Murray. Neely, Oldlleld,
Oilier, Olncy. Overmyer, I'ndKctt.
I'nsre, .\ortli t'aroliiia; IMielnn. I'oii,
Ouelan. HiiKsdnle. Ilnlney. Baker,
Itnmlall. Ranch. Itnylmrn, Kellli,
It Ionian, House, Ituliey, Hiicker. It Ms.
sell. Missouri; Sully, Sears, Sltallett.
brrprer. Slierlev, Sherwood, Sims, v|?.
f,on, Sinnll, Smith, New Vork; Npurk
nian, StetiKnll. Steiliuan. Steele,
lount Stephens, Mississippi; Ste
phens, Texas; Stone, Taisfrnrt. faciie.
I'lilbott, Tavenner, Tay lor. Arkansas;
Clintons, Thompson. Tillman. Trilible.
Van Dyke, Yenahlc. Vinson, Wnt
kins. Wntnon. Virginia; Welili, Mha
ley, Williams, W. K.; Wilson, l.ouls
laiiu; \\ In^o, Wise, Yoiiiik, Texas?
IUS.
Ayes; Bcptibllcnns- ?Beales, Bnw
ers,* llrltt. t iimphell. Ctiiinun. ('hand
ler. N. V.; Cooper. Ohio; Cooper.
Went Virginia; Cooper. Wisconsin;
Costello, Curry. Davis. Minnesota;
Dculson, Donell. Kiirf, Foelit, (iar
lanil. Mrceu, lowai lladley, Hackell,
liuiiKeii, llaiiley, llentou, Helpresen,
lllrks, IlollliiKStvortli, llo|iuvod,
Hull, Iowa; Husped, Kelster. Kenne
dy. Iowa; K iiiK. Klakald, I,a Col
li-11 r. I,enroot, l.lndberKh, .MeCrneWeu,
Met ulloc'i. Miller, Delaware: Mon
ilell, .Mooney, .Morgan, Oklahoma;
Morln, Muild. .Nelson, North. I'orter.
I'mverH, llainscyer. Ilea vis, Blckctts.
HoJeiiheric, Russell, Ohio; Seott.
I'cn.isylvnnla; Mejiel, Slmiott. Slemp,
Smith, Idaho; Smith. Minnesota;
Stafford, Stcenersoii. Sutherland,
Swift. Tlmberlalce. Tlnklintn. Tow
ner. VolNtend. Wheeler, W illl.nns,
Ohio; WOnil, ladlann?TP.
A yes; Social 1st?I.on don? 1.
Total nyes, -III).
Nnyss Demoerats?nlack. I>\n*;
Steele. I*ennsylvnnla?II.
Nays: It epiilillcnnn ? Biieharaeh.
Harehneld, Bennett, llrltten. Ilrimn
Iiik. Ilutler. t arter. Mn**iiehu*ett?i
Coleman, Crainton, Dabs Vermont:
Daillnuer. Danforth. Darrow. Demp
sey, Dillon, Kdmonds, I'ckk. Ford
tiey. (?nrdttcr. Massaeliuaet ts; Millet t.
l.lyiin. Mould, (iraham, Mrny. New
Jersey; (Jreene. Vermont; Mrlest.
lllll. Johnson. South Dakota: Ken
nedy. Itliodc Island; Krelder. l.nfean.
I.elilbai'li, MeArthur, Mnan, 'Meeker.
Moore. I'ennsy I vnnla: Oakey. Parker,
New Jersey: I'tirkcr. Veu York:
IMntt, Itoberts, Massachiisetts; Itowe,
llojreri, Snnford. Sell*. Sterllnu.
sflttcss, Temple, Treadrrny. Vure.
Wntnon. I'ennsyl vnnla: Wilson, Illi
nois; Wlnslow. M'nnils, Iowa?"4.
Total i.ay?, 5(1.
Present, but not votinc?Fouler,
Moore*, liidinna: Morrison. PatteH,
S14,II I|
, Auto Plunges Over Embankment to
Twenty-Foot Drop at Havre
dc Grace, Mil.
| MRS. I3M,A .1KWKTT KIlil.Kl)
Party Was. Touring to Atlautir City
When Accident Occurred?Harry
I.. Gill, Chauffeur, and Charles
[*ptll'ord, Hurler, Both Injured.
Mrs. Klmore I> Hot-'hkiss, of the,
: .Monroe Terrace parr men ts, daughter,
of \V. S. Forbes. was seriously injured; ]
Mrs. Mlla Jewett. or Boston. was1
killed. Harry L. (Sill, chauffeur; Charles'
Bedford. negro butler, and Oeorgs |
Koin. of Baltimore, were hurt, when,
an automobile in which they we e diiv- '
, ing to Atlantic City plunged over an I
I embankment early yesterday morning !
I near Havre <!e (irace, Md.
The injured and the body of the
I dead woman were taken to a hospital!
at Havre do <'? race, where it was said i
j that Mrs. Hotchkiss was suffering only!
with lacerations of the face and scalp j
1 and from shock to her nervous system. ]
Gill sustained :? badly sprained back
'and ankle, and Hertford was cut on the
I less and body and suffered a sprained!
i ankle. Both chauffeur and butler live!
| in Richmond.
Blancharrt S. Forbes, brother of Mrs.!
I Hotchkiss. and Iv P. Jtlpley. a brother-!
in-law, left in the after-noon for Havre
I <le Grace.
; ?iits. mm iikiss to iikti h\
11 Kill-: IN A IT. \\ I?.\VS
William I' Forbes, also a brother, I
| last tughi was in com muni en t ion with |
| the Havre <le <'.race Hospital, and ascer- I
tainod fr?m the surgeon in charge that, j
aside from cuts and hniises." Mrs.
Motchkis.-- had sustained a sprained
ankle. It was thought best that she
remain in the hospital for two days,!
after which time, it is expected, she
will be able to stand the. journey to
Hieh moml
Koin, who was also hurt, it was .
learned by Mr. Forbes, had been picked
up in Baltimore t<> act as a pilot on j
the road to Philadelphi ?
Mrs. .Jewett. who was sixty-three I
years old. had visited Mrs. Hotchkiss
here, and had expected to remain with
her in Atlantic City through Septem
ber. tier neck was broken by the fall,
and she died instantly.
The accident is said to have been
due to the darkness of the night. Tlio .
car was passing across a bridce over
an old cut of the Pennsylvania Itailroad
at Union Avenue and St. flair Street,
near Havre de Grace, when it crashed
through the railing and plunged down
twenty feet.
Kx-Mayor W. II. Weber, who lives
near the scene of the accident, sounder!
the tire alarm, calling out all the peo- ,
pie in the neighborhood, and in live
minutes a hundred citizens were upon 'j
the scene (to tors responded promptly,
and every aid was given to the tuiund
W. S Forbes is now in California.
POSTNIASTER REMOVED
| Kaunas I i?.v Olllelnl Ousteil for "tiros*
Irregularities" by Orders
l-'rom Washington.
WASHINGTON*. September I.?Sum-j
mary removal from ofllce for "gross
Irregularities" of William Frjnten
berger, postmaster at Kansas City,
Kas., was announced late to-day by the
Post-Ofllco Department.
/
WILSON NOTIFICATION
IT SHADOW LAWN TO-DAY
President Enthusiastically Welcomed
s>u Arrival at His Sum
mer Home.
CLAD TO RE HACK IN "JKRSKY"
Everything in Readiness for Cere
monies, Which Will Take Place on
Lawn After Luncheon in Honor of
Prominent Democrats.
LONG [!!!.\KCII, N. .1.. September 1.?
President Wilson was enthusiastically
welcomed to his summer home here
when he arrived to-night for the' for
mal notification of his renomination
to-morrow. A ? heering throng greeted
him at the station, and reception cere
monies were heid .it Shadow Lawn. th?
summer White lloii-e.
A crowd of more than .">00 persons
was gathered at the station to re
ceive the President on his lirst real
home-coming to New Jersey since he
entered the White House. Buildings
were draped with ll.tg*. and the entire
town was in holiday mood. The spe
cial train on which the President made
the trip with Mrs: Wilson, Secretary
Tumulty and Dr. Carey T. Grayson, the
White Mouse physician, arrived shortly
before 0 o'clock. Mr. Wilson was on
the observation plattorm, and cheers
and haud-ciapping' broke out as the
crowd caught sight of him. An auto
mobile parade was formed, and followed
the President's car to Shadow Lawn.
There a reception (Ornmittee was wait
ing. Major Wooley, of Long Itrancti.
and Mayor A. !?". (Jo.den. of Wi-st Long
Ilranch. iloln'-roi. -ri >f wlcomlnii
speeches, and the President declared he
was glad to !>?? hatit in "Jersey."
Kverything was '.:i readiness to-night
for the notification ceremonies to-mor
row. At 1 o'clock the President and
Mrs. Wilson will <- i\ e a lum .-.con for
Senator Ollie Jamea <ind others of the
notification eommi'.ee, .neinbers of the
Democratic National Committee, mem
bers of the Cabii.jt and other promi
nent Democrats.
Members of the notification commit
tee will meet in New York to-morrow
and conic here together. The formal
exercises will he held on the lawn of
.Mr. Wilson's temporary home, and th?
President will <! liver his speech at 4
o'clock, from the veranda
The President plans to leave here to
morrow night 'or Washington, where
lie will arrive early on Sunday. lie
will remain Ihere only three hours, and
then will leave fo: .'(oilmen ville, K.v.,
to deliver a Lincoln ? pencil on Monday.
TWO EXECUTED AT SIN3 SING
Joseph llitncl mid .Inn T)'Ihin Pay
I lentil Prioilty for
Murder.
(>SS!NINi!, N. Y.. September 1 ?Two
men were put to death in the electric
clviir in Sing Sing Prison to-day. For
the murder of Mrs. Julia II ilier. a
".rooklyn woman, who was his em
ployer, Joseph Hanel, thirty-five years
old, was executed shortly before ?>
o'clock. Three "'minutes later Jan
Tybus paid the penalty for killing
J mob Schocberg, a Junk dealer, in
llatavla.
A third man. Thomas Banibrick, con
victed of killing a policeman in New
York, also was to have been executed,
but Governor Whitman granted him "a I
stay upon representations that new I
ovldence had been discovered. I
EIGHT-HOUR BiLL ;
PASSED BY HOUSE;
GOES TO SENATE
Vote Is 239 to 56, With
Five Members Voting
Present.
UPPER HOUSE WILL ACT
BY 6 O'CLOCK THIS EVENING
Generally Believed That Adam
son Measure Will Be Ac
cepted as It Stands.
*
TO UK HUSHED TO SHADOW LAWN
Rrotherhood Heads Then Will Dis
patch (*ide Messages Calling
Off Walkout Order.
'
j WASHINGTON*. September t.?Pre
1 vention of the threatened railroad
J strike through an act of Congress
seemed assured to-night after the
House by an overwhelming vote had
passed the Adamson eight-hour-day
j law, and the Senate had agreed to take
;a dual vote on the measure not later
? than <5 o'clock to-morrow evening.
Although it is possible that Senate
; amendments may make conferences
necessary. It is generally believed on
both sides of the Capitol that when
! the test comes the House bill as it
j stands will be accepted and rushed to
Shadow Lawn, N. J., for President Wil
son's signature. And, while no formal
statements were forthcoming from the
| employees' brotherhood heads to-night,
j it Is authoritatively stated that this
| will result In immediate dispatch of
code messages calling eft the general
strike order for Monday morning.
The Adamson bill as passed in the
House by a vote of 239 to 56, with
? minor amendments, is the same meas
ure which the brotherhood leaders offi
cially declared yesterday would con
stitute "a satisfactory settlement" and
prevent the strike. The amendments,
added to conform to a Jraft framed by
the Senate Interstate Commerce Com
mittee, wnuld ?lx the effective date at
January 1 instead of December 1, 1916,
and exempt railroads \ ?sa than 100
miles long, and electric street and ln
terurban lines.
A MI-:.\ l)HK.\TS t H AXfin
I: FI'KCTIVE DATB
It lie fly It provides: That eight hours
shall he deemed a day's work, and the
standard for reckoning compensation
1 of railroad employees operating trains
: in interstate commerce after January 1
!1917; and.
riiat a commission of three appointed
? b>" President Wilson shall investigate
J the effect; of the eight-hour standard \
j for from six to nine nonths. and then"*
report to Congress, present wages not
| to lie reduced during the investigation
I or for thirty_da.vs thereafter, and over
l time to he paid pro rata. *
it was after a d iy of hot debate that
the House passed the bill, under a
special rule brought in when Repub
lican Leader Ma nr. < bjected to its con
sideration. Less than half of the Re
publicans f<? loweo their floor leader
in the opposition, and when the final
vote came. > event} of them lined up
with the majority, while only fifty-four/'
(voted against the measure. Just-two
Democrats. Representatives Steele" oe
Pennsylvania, and Black, of Texas
stood out against th<> hill. and Repre
sent.! live London, ?f NVw York, the
onlv Socialist, voted for It.
K*d tape was eliminate/, as far as
pos?.ihle to rush the measure over to
the Senate which. offer several hours
Of Ihelv discussion over a Mil reported
by Its Interstate Commet -e Committee,
recessed until S o'clock.
The Senate b'.ll. dr-.f'.e.l Inst night
and another, this mn?..|,,?r. was the
Adimson measure with the came
amendments adapted t..-day by the
Hoi se. and ari added lection empow
; ering the Interstate Commerce Com
mission to fix th? wages of interstate
railroad employees at the end of the
proposed period of investigation, and
therea fter.
smxatm t\ki:s ic uit,i,
SKNT uvKlt FIIOM HOUSE!
At th?> ? - utset f.t flie night session
I Senator N'ewl uids sought and obtained
. unan.mous consent to put aside the
.Senate bill and take up the one sent"
over from tlie House, thereby pavln?
the way for quick rl?>:< I action without" <
parliamentary formalities that other* '
wise would be necessary. Then Sena
tor cnd.rwood b-ought up thu Issue''
over which the setnft Is divided by >
proposing as >u auieiulineiit the
fivinr provision of i??.? discarded Sen-'
ate bill, over this amendment debate
waged for three hours. Senators New
'nd Senator Cummins making a-"lon?r?;'
-oe.'.-h critti'i/.inthe whole proe??*-H
I lands and I'nderwood advocating it.
t a. lo??3
proc??Esl.
ng M?>?f of .he Senators had llttlo '
" ? ""iy. "??? "! oak rooms tHeci'
s' " *,,,H that \n&WS&
,h" would go .throu*?
j wit hunt :> ??'>?! n "
| !-'o" a.v|,?: there was talk Ofc
.ilI-nte'Tit Mission, hut eanly in
inc won! u ;ls that an ' a
ment to adjourn and vote at a ce
hour to-morrow would come
the discission had gone vory for i' '
All throughout the morning,
dent Wilson was at his office i
Capitol conferring with admir
leaders and aiding In ftrrit
?vss*3S
