rjme
F'iSEfwfS9pgj;;5
f-- J.
V
iwrr;
f
-Tii
"ZrJ
0"
L" ' J JjB-" i"Vi i.v4rvn3KB"W
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE GEBEPS FALL WHERE THEY MAY
ol. XXI.
GHIGAGO, SEPTEMBER 2, 1916
No. 50
lvy"-.'
. ' -
ClVfc
.
!Cv i5l5
AN ELOQUENT SPEECH ON SONG AND MUSIC
-rsfMilgiiii
uc j 1 I 1 IIA 11 1 1 1 1 IMyt M 'W' HJJiMWBwVlif I ' iHJ .fl ' If n I fcWt Irmjpili m ') i 'HmI Wi f ' '! i 'B HI .
What Governor Sulzer Said
Before The United German
Singing Societies, at Their
Annual Sangereest, in
Syracuse, New York, June
18th, 1913
HON. WILLIAM SULZER.
One of the most eloquent and classical orators In this country and the candi
date of the American Party for President of the United States.
HON. MBDILL McCOEMIOK.
Hon. Medill JTcCormick, Kepublican mission to enquire into the prevalence'
candidate for the nomination for Con- and cause of lynchings and to report
gressman at large, to be voted for at steps to be taken to stop it.
the state "wide primaries, Wednesday Federal Legislation is impossible un
September 13th, accomplished more der the Constitution but Mr. McCor
than any other member of the mick believes that the report of a Corn
Legislature of this state in assisting to mission will and so fix responsibility
secure the appropriations which en- and so arouse public opinion that it
abled the Colored people of this state will result in a marked decrease in
to celebrate their fifty years of free- lynchings. He plans to introduce a bill
lorn in 1915, and if he should be nom- to increase the number of Negro Begi
inated and elected to congress, this ments in the U. S. Army as a sound
coming November he will carry on a step in the direction of adequate pre
plan he has had in mind for a long paredness. A vote for him on Sept. 13
time and will introduce a resolution in in the Primary will be the best means
Congress authorizing the President of of obtaining the full measure for and
the United States to appoint a Com- by the whole people.
(This speech was stenographically
reported, and is now printed for the
first time.)
Mr. Sulzer spoke as follows:
"My friends: The German people
love music.
"There is an old saying that the
love of music .makes good people that
those who love music have no evil in
their hearts that the love of music
promotes happiness and insures con
tentment. "The German Singing Societies
teach this philosophy and it is a
sound philosophy.
"Every believer in his fellowmen
should take some interest in music
because it expresses, in universal lan
guage, the hope, and the longing, and
the aspiration of the human heart. A
sagacious statesman has said that he
cared uot who wrote the laws of his
country so long as he could write the
songs of the people. There is much
political wisdom in that observation.
music of the Germans, and the French,
and the Italians, made the observa
tion that America has given to the
world not a single bar of original
music save the folk songs of Stephen
Foster. Investigation compels me to
concur in the conclusion. You know
those songs of Foster. They ring true.
They aro as musical now as when they
wero written. They touch the heart
strings of humanity in our day just as
they did in the day of Foster. Those
songs are the true music of the Western
World. They aro becoming more popu
lar with the intervening years. They
aro human. They are musical. They
will never die.
"You know these Foster songs My
Old Kentucky Home; Old Dog Tray;
Massa's in the Cold, Cold Ground; Old
Black Joe; Old Folks at Home; and
Come Where My Love Lies Dreaming.
The music of these songs is original.
Their melody is ever beautiful and
harmonious. They never crow old.
t
"The music and the songs of a peo-,T&; tpuch the human heart. Thejv
pie 'have much to do with moulding
the views and the opinions of a people.
There is nothing truer in the records of
man. It is the music of song that stirs
humanity. It is the music of the mother
song, lulling her baby to sleep, that
leaves the lasting impression. It is
the music of the martial song, along
the far-flung line, that makes the ser
ried ranks march on to battle. It is
the music of the World song for world
peace, striking a responsive chord in
advancing civilization, that heralds
the dawn of the brotherhood of man.
It is the music of the song of love,
playing on the heart strings of lovers,
that makes the world go round. It is
the music of the song of death, sing
ing through the trees the requiem of
the departing, that cheers our loved
ones on the journey to the undis
covered country.
"And so it may be said that it is
the songs of the people, from the
cradle to the grave, that tell their
story and that make us all that we
are, and all that we hope to be.
"Give us, 0 give us, the man who
sings at his work.." said Carlylc. Ho
will do more in the same time ho will
do it better ho will preserve longer.
One is scarcely sensible of fatigue
whilst he marches to music. The very
stars are said to make music as they
revolve- in their spheres. Wondrous is
the strength of cheerfulness, and alto
gether past calculation its powers of
endurance. Efforts, to be permanently
useful, must be uniformly joyous
and full of the song of sunshine.
"The people in all times, and in all
climes, love the old songs the songs
that mother used to sing and the
folk-songs of the fatherland. It is fit
ting that on occasions like this these
old songs bo sung, and that we ponder
on all that they mean.
"Xo one loves music more than I
do. No one loves the old songs more
than I do. It never hurts an old song
to sing it again.
"Music is the artistic expression of
our subconscious sen tne inexpress
ible poetry of the soul uttered in tho
symphony of sound the universal lan
guage of the human race.
"Years ago ,Thcodore Thomas, one
of our greatest musicians, talking to
mc about music from tho weird songs
of primitivo people, to tho classic
are the songs of the people. They are
sung by all races, in all places.
"And so, from one end of the world
to tho other, these songs written by
one of our immortals, whose pathetic
life reads like a romance, are the true
songs of our country the real songs
of the people of America.
"So, too, in Germany, it is not the
classical music of Bach and Wagner,
of Chopin and Handel, of Mozart and
Beethoven, that moves the masses and
appeals to the people, but the old folk
songs the simple songs of the long
ago that satisfy tho rank and file and
constitute tho melodies that the people
comprehend. In the fatherland, as
here, the real music tho music that
sways humanity is the simple music
of tho human heart the melodies of
tho mind the music that gives expres
sion to the joys and the tears, to the
hopes and the tears, of the plain peo
ple. "The harmony of the spheres pro
claims the Creator, and since the morn
ing stars hrst sang together tho
rhythmic song of Nature is the music
of the stellar universe.
"All honor to the men and the
women who teach music. The simple
men and women of the world have al-
wa'3 been the teachers of the world.
The music teacher is now, and ever
has been, an advance agent in the on
ward march of Civilization. These
musical teachers do a true work for
"Progress little appreciated by the un
thinking, and yet that which they do
has an effect on the minds and the
hearts of the time far beyond the con
ception of the average students of hu
man affairs.
"Greetings and congratulations,
therefore, to the German Singing So
cieties and to all Singing Societies
which meet here and there every year
to sing the folk songs, to sing the
songs of Childhood, to sing the songs
of Love, to sing the songs of Peace, to
sing tho songs of Home, to sing the
songs of Country, and to sing the songs
of Creation! They are doing, in their
day and generation, a groat work for
humanity, for progress, and for Civili
zation, littlo appreciated by those who
do not think, and comprehended less, I
am sorry to say, by those who do not
know."
H$e&.:M& swSBBPsBHIfflHSW -SSmBBs! Hm&lHH
COL. FEANK O. L0WDEN.
The true and tried friend of the Afro-American race who will open up hid
boom in full blast for tho Republican nomination for Governor of Illinois,
in Chicago, Saturday, August 26th and his able and far seeing campaign
manager, the Hon. W. H. Stead, declares that "everything indicates his
overwhelming nomination against all competitors for governor at the State
Wide primaries Wednesday, September ISth.
HON. MEDILL McCORMICK.
Republican candidate for congressman at large to be voted for at the state
wide primaries Wednesday, September ISth. The indications are that his
vast army of friends and supporters feel dead sure that he will receive the
nomination for the, honorable .position he is seeking, "with both hands down.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The forms of tho first section of the
twenty-first anniversary edition of The
Broad Ax "will be turned over to the
pressmen Wednesday at noon Septem
ber C, and the forms of the last section
will closo promptly at noon Friday.
September S, all matter intended for
publication in that issue must reach
tho editor by nine o'clock Friday
morning, September S. Phone Went
worth 2597, after that hour phono Cal
umet 5301.
HON. JAMES T. MCDERMOTT.
Democratic candidate to succeed himself in congress, from the fourth congres
sional district of Dlinols. He has successfully served in that body since
1907 and he feels that he has worked faithfully In the interest of all the
people residing in his district; that on Wednesday, September 13, the
majority of the Democrats residing in that district "will record their votes
in favor of his renomination.
ivSV
;j--'
4.A.
rvr
