iVaU Hisiorleil. SosiatJ
XL '
r i '
VOL. XXXVI. NO 39
HAYS, ELLIS COUNTY, KANSAS, SEPTEMBER 2. 1916.
SUBSCRIPTION $1.50 PER YEAR
Guard adainst the
uncertainties of the
future. Sfarr vour
Bank Account to-day.
A bank account is the safest shield for protection, and, once you
begin to save, you will be convinced it is the only road to comfort and
wealth.
A person should take no risks of disadvantage in the future while
he is able to make himself secure. When one is so situated as to be able
to afford risks, then he may be venturesome.
Start a bank account with us now.
Interest paid on savings.
A BUSINESS CHANGE
M. Spser Purchases the First
National Bank of this City.
AN LMPORTAiNT FINANCIAL CHANGE
HAYS, KANSAS
LET
W6TH
US FIGUR'E
w H AT V U rg
Ting a ling! Ting a ling! The school beli will
soon ring. Come in NOW and get the stock
ings, underwear and everything your young
f oiks will need very soon.
fit no time in their iives can you make your
children so happp with new clothes as when
you start them back to school: and at our
store you can clothe them nicely with just a
LITTLE MONEV
We have everything for GROWN FOLKS too,
you know.
H. A. NICKLES, Hays, Kansas
Victrola Supremacy
THE fact that all the worlds greatest artists
have selected the VICTROLA as the
medium through which their art shall be given
to the world 'is proof that the Victrola is
supreme. All sizes carried in stock.
R. S. Markwell, Agent
HAYS,
KANSAS
Loan aid -'Insurance- Co.
FARM LOANS
At Correct Rates
INSURANCE .
In Best Companies
Bonded Abstractor for Ellis Co.
A Short Sketch cn the Evolution of
Banking.
Commerce is the mother of civiliza
tion, and the greatest nations of antiq
uity have been distinguished for the
extent of their trade. Methods of ex
change have vastly altered from ancient
to modern times; and in no features so
much as in manipulation of individual,
corporate and national credit. A bank,
as it exists today, receiving deposits,
issuing its own paper in circulation,
drawing bills of exchange, making col
lections of drafts, discounting notes
and placing loans, was an institution in
ancient times. The convenience and
cheapness of modern methods of ex
change were not only unheard of, but
it is very doubtful if thev could have
been possible without a greater meas
ure of security and inter-state and na
tional peace than were then possessed.
The Venetians were the first modern
nation to establish a bank, and accord
ing to the best authorities, it was or
ganized in 1157.
The bank of Venice was next estab
lished, which retained its character for
six hundred and fifty years, and until
the French army under the first Na
poleon, took possession of the City of
Venice.
Subsequently, as time passed and the
ever changing needs of humanity neces
sitated, various changes were made.
Coming down to our own country and
after the eight years of revolutionary
war with Britain, which had largely
been maintained by the wealthy citizens,
of the colonies, this country was nearly
bankrupt, but through the energy and
patriotism of the people, the industries
of the country were sustained. In 1782,
the bank of North America, was estab
lished with a capital of $400,000.
Alexander Hamilton who was a strong
Federalist, and accused of being Eng
lish in his methods, and alwavs work
ing for centralization of power, pro
posed the United States Bank, and it
went into operation with $10,000,000
capital in 1791, but twenty years later f
expired by term of limitation in its j
charter. Three years later a Third Na
tional Bank was proposed, bat Pres
ident Madison vetoed the bill after its
passing both houses of congress for in
corporation; but in 1817 the bill was
passed the second time and the "Bank
of the United States" went into opera
tion with a capital of $35,000,000. This
was , the bank which President Andrew
Jackson in 1832 opposed, and refused
to endorse with his signature, saj'ing,
"I'll take the responsibility of with
drawing its charter," which act with
similar democratic character, gained a
world-wide fame for himself as "Old
Hickory" whom banks could not buy
nor war intimidate. The bank went in-
j to operation under the laws of the state
j of Pennsylvania, but suspended finally
( seven years later. Boston's first bank
j was started "in 1784; New York's first
bank was opened for business in 1799.
j The history of banking down to the
twentieth century, in all its details is
1 wonderful and reads like fiction, but it
is actual history, interwoven through
and through with the interests and in
dustries of the world, and would make
very interesting reading, but time and
space forbid. The Free Pres3 is inter
ested mostly in the affairs of the pres
ent. The First National Bank of this city,
has recently changed hands, and the
new owner, Mr. E. M. Speer, took
possession Monday morning of this
week, August 27th.
The following is " a partial history of
this institution:
The Ellis County Bank was organized
in the early eighties by A. P. West, A.
S. Hall and M. G. Huntington, with a
banking house on the south side about
where Schwaller's garage is located, or
a little west. This bank was then
merged into the First National Bank
by charter dated May 25, 1S88, with A.
P. West as president, and M. G. Hunt
ington, cashier, and was taken over by
E. F. Madden, in 1S93, who has contin
ued in control until the present time.
For twenty-three years the First Na
tional Bank under the management of
the Maddens has been one of the solid,
substantial, financial institutions of
Ellis county. Many an Ellis county
man has been tided over a bad year or
a series of years, and put on a safe
road to prosperity, and W. J. Madden,
the obliging cheery cashier, always had
a smile and a "how are you, Bill, or
John," for the patrons of the bank or
others who might call. The Maddens
have sold their entire interest in the
bank and sever all connection with" the
institution.
The new president, E. M. Speer; has
had twenty years banking experience
and was the cashier of the Hozie, Kan
and has no outside business interests
conflicting with the interests of its pa
trons. This institution is entitled to
and should have the full confidence and
support of the public.
Mr
here as
sary arrangements. Of his four chil
dren, two daughters are stiil at home.
The oldest is a teacher, the possessor of
a state certificate. The youngest a sen
ior high school girl. We are glad to
welcome such a family to Hays, and
hope to be able to prove to them there
is no better place on earth to live.
THE HUGHES SPECIAL
Several hundred people some from a
distance, were here to greet Hon. Chas.
E,. Hughes, the republican candidate
Speer expects to move his family I tV- - . .
, t xv. J I this Friday morning. .The tram was
is soon as he can make the neces- - . x- ' ,
iua in two sections, ana iur. tiugnes
and party, including his wife, were on
the first section.
As the special was scheduled to stop
only at one point S&lina between
Denver and Topeka, his speech was
necessarily brief.
Hon. Otis L. Benton, candidate for
congress, introduced Mr. Hughes to the
audience in a few appropriate words, !
after which Mr. Hughes made a very
brief speech as follows:
"Fellow Citizens: I come to you as
the representative of a reunited partv
11 r .1 A 1 X - r
were here from
sports a new
The Griffith sisters
Ellis, Sunday.
Prof. Alex Meier
Chevrolet automobile.
Philip Bittle of Manjor, has recently
purchased an auto truck.
Harry Felten unloaded a carof hay
from Manhatt an, this week.
Wm. Richmond made a business trip
to WaKeeney, Saturday.
Three cars of watermelons were un
loaded at Hays, this week.
Wm. J. Madden left Monday night,
for a business trip to Texas. v
Mrs. Joseph Runyon has returned
fromli visit to her children near Codell.
Mrs. Mabel Shotts, formerly Mabel
Edwards, was up from LaCrosse, this
week.
Mrs. Geo. Builer of Russell, attended
the funeral of Mrs. Wm. Roenfelt,
Sunday.
Mr. Alvin Fellers was operated on
for appendicitis, at the Hays hospital,
Sunday.
H. D. Shaffer and family returned
Sunday evening, from their trip to
Colorado.
Mrs. Mabel Calvert is here from
Plains, Kansas, visiting her mother
Mrs. Rowlinson.-
Henry Westbjook has the contract
for painting Ed Kraus new farm resi
dence south of town. .
Azel Cochran and family and C. M.
Wann and family have returned from
an outing in Colorado.
H. H. Pierce and family and Ward
Sullivan and wife left Thursday after
noon, for a vacation in Colorado.
The Union Pacific have installed a
new electric bell west of the depot,
where the track crosses Ash Street.
Smith & Pierson, surgeons from Kan
sas Citv, have been doing some work
at the Hays k.spitul? the past wee!-:. ?
Herman Soenfeldt of Kansas Ci:y,
was here Sunday, to attend the funeral:
of his mother, Mrs. William Roenfel it. j
Miss Jennie iNicKies ana party re
turned from Colorado, Friday evening
of last week, by the way of LaCrosse.
Dee Lambert left for Athol, Smith
county, where he has been .. employed
as principal of the schools of that place.
The Chalmers automobile No. 3400
won first and second place in the Pikes
Peak hill climb, August 11, and third
place on August 12. Can you beat it? J ,
A Reo and a Case car with thresher
men Dechandt, Mike Quint and Art
Bieler, left Sunday, for some point in
Canada.
Mildred Nickles of Abilene,
E. 11. Spe;r, President.
IT. W. Oshant, Vice Pres.
Victor Holm, Cashier.
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK
OF HAYS CITY, KANSAS '
The Oldest Bank in Ellis County
Progressive, Conservative, Reliable, Accommodating
Member Federal Reserve Bank, Kansas City, Mo.
i e propose mat tne American name
shall be honored in every land by the
firm maintenance of the rights of
American citizens. If we do not have
the motive power of a strong patriotic
feeling in this country, we can accomp
lish nothing, and we shall become a de
cadent nation. That doe3 not mean
that we shall enter into strife the path
of peace and security is the path of
firmness and self respect. You will
have no enduring peace in this country
unless you respect vourselves. honor
the American name and stand firmly
for known American rights.
"You need not suppose that the na
tions abroad are going to be so wasted
by this struggle that they will not be
formidable competitors. On the con
trary, they are disciplined; they under
stand themselves thoroughly; every
item of their resources has been mark
ed and considered, and they are organ
ized in a more effective way than ever
before in their history. I do not refer
to any particular nation, but to all of
them.
"Now, we must organize to protect
American trade; and that is the doc
trine for which I stand."
He was still speaking when the train
pulled out.
Mrs. W. W. Paul presented a beauti
ful bouquet of flowers to Mrs. Hughes,
which was very graciously received,
and our distinguished citizen from
Buckeye township, Hiram Joy, chair
man of the republican county central
committee, was the only man of the
large and interested audience who had
the honor of shaking hands with Mr.
Hughes, and his wife, the next first
lady of this republic.
The special made a brief stop at Vic
toria, where Mr. Hughes also talked a
few moments.
VilI ;Early was in
business, this week.
"Canning and preservn
Order through your grocer.
Manhattan, on
to.ua toes. ,
al2tf I
Canning and preserving tomatoes
Order through your grover. al2tf
Mrs. Elmer Shade is sick at the
Hays hospital.
A daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs.
Jones on August 24th.
. The little daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Fred Oshant is -quite ill.
Mr3. Edna Fulton left Tuesday for
Mitchell county, where she will teach
this year.
Miss Lena Brown leaves for her
school work at Hill City, today, before
the strike.
John F. Werth, this week, purchased
a Dodge automobile at the Alex
Schueler sales room.
Ernest King is contemplating ' the
erection of a residence on the Reeder
addition near the Normal.
Miss Alice Freese leaves Sunday for
anothers years' teaching at the Star
school north of Yocemento.
Watch the Hays City Drag Store
windows for specials next week.
B. C. Arnold has been acting probate
judge this week in the absence of F. E.
McLain who attended the old soldiers
meeting at Kansas City.
Watch the Huys City Drug Store
windows for specials next week.
Miss Andreas has sold her residence
property in the northwest part of the
city for $5,000, to a German who will
move to town.
For Sale.
Two homestead relinquishments in
Cheyenne County, Colorado.
No 1. 240 acres with a living spring
of water and 50 acres of growing al
falfa. The price reasonable.
No. 2. 320 acres all fenced. Any
young man with the proper amount of
nerve and energy could make a success
of either of these tracts of land. Who
wants them.
Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Wolverton of
Topeka, were at the Windsor, the first
of the week. Mr. Wolverton is con
nected with the Topeka Capital.
behiyer Arnold sold two Oakland
P J rw; y,na , torw,,,. ! six cylander automobiles. The owners,
tit - . . ,. , . ' 'Mr. Grabbe and Anton Gable," should
Illinois, to acconiDanv his wife hark t- . auvutu
u3rtTn t. te proud to own an Oakland car. They
J are a standard, high-class machine.
lr. j. ii. juCxNaugnton oi uove lity, j Watch the Hays
Drougni a patienc to at. Aninony s '
hospital, Monday.
Solid gold neck chains with diamond
pendants, $5.75 to $20.00, at J. T. Mor
rison, the jeweler's.
Miss Olive Westbrbok left Friday,
for Florence, Kansas, for her fourth
ear as the teacher ia the school
there.
C. W. Miller's idea of getting the
Hughes train to stop at Hays, proved a
great ' success both at Hays and Vic-
who has i toria. This is nnlv nrre of tho Kir
City Drug Store
; windows for specials next week.
Agent A. W. Noble has ben notified
not to accept perishable freight until
after some adjustment can be made
with the 400,000 railroad employees
who are due to strike on September 4.
Ex-Postmaster H. J.' Penney and
son, Gerald, have returned from their
trip through Utah and other western
states. They enjoyed a most delightful
outing in the mountains of the west
and, "my," what fish stories.
George Kiedel and family have
been visiting hex ; relatives in Hays, for things that can be pulled off in this turned from their outing in Colorado.
several days past, will leave for her county if he is elected as our senator.
home, Sunday morning.
- . , Mr. and Mrs. H. A. Nickles gave an
Mrs. Iva Morgan Robinson is here entertainment Tuesday evening, in
from Lcgan, where her husband i honor of Mrs Nickles' parents, Mr.
teaching school visiting her parents, Mrg Haag u was the occasion
Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Morgan. of the c,d people.s forty.fifth wedding
Jake Orth, who lives south of town, anniversary. A number of friends of
is the pleased owner of a Chalmers six the family were present,
automobile. The Chalmers is stylish TT
a j j P- Caspar Harvey, who has been do-
and a very dependable machine. . f - , . .
. , . , x , mS reportorialstunts on the Chicago
.Irs. Alfred Havemann was opara.ed Tribune for the past month arriyed
on for appendicitis, Saturday morning, home Thursday morning. Harvey re-
oflast week .The operation was a ports that he had the time of his life
success and she is improving nicely. and also learned "gobs" of useful in-
A. O. Woolridge returned Sunday formation about how to runanewspa-
morning, from a short visit to home per.
friends in Iola, Ills. This was Mr. Geo. Bellman and wife. Mrs. Mary
Woolndge's first visit in eight years. R(ir- cw,, t a
It is understood that Susie Mullen Cowan and family, motored over to
has-accepted a position as helper in the Plainville, Sunday. They report seeing
News office. She will probably be the twenty or thirty thousand bushels of
operator for the new linotype that is wheat piled up along the track near the
enroute. elevators, waiting for cara to take it to
The Frank Manning show3 have been market,
engaged to play at the Golden Eelt j. t. Morrison, the jeweler, ha3 a
Fair. The Manning band offcten pieces beautiful line of cameo brooches,
will furnish the music each day for the Mrs E T Le. wife of ff
four days of the fair. Lewig of Gove Countv was brouf?ht to
Prof. Ward W. Sullivan hes St. Anthony's hospital for treatment,
moved into the C. W. Reeder rentel j Monday. Her condition was considered
property recently vacated by Walter j quite serious, but she is improving very
Scott, who goes to Oakley as superin- j nicely, and will not have to undergo an
tendent of the schools there. j operation. The sheriff returned to his
Mrs. Timothy Logan of Denver, a j duties Friday,
former resident of Hays, is here for a Ladies' and gents' solid gold plain
visit with friends. She returned with 1 band, signet and sat rings at J. T. Mor
John O'Laughlin and family, who had j rison, the jeweler's.
sas National Bank for many years. He pnent makes a very servicabie jitney estate agent, who ha3 offices
has been eminently successful as a
banker and has made of the Hoxie Na
tional one of the leading banks in the
northwest. H. W. Oshant remains as
vice president, and Vietor Holmes is
the cashier. The management will j
confine its efforts '. strictly to banking-, j
been taking a vacation in Colorado.
Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Butler drove over
from LaCrosse, Sunday, in their Ford
car and were the guests of Mr. and
Mrs. H. H. Winters. They drove from
here to WaKeeney to visit relatives
there.
Schwaller Bros, have purchased " a
Formatruck of Alex Schueler, and at-
J. G. Felts and son, Emerson, of Wi
nona, and a 'young man from Oakley,
passed through Hays, enroute from
Kansas City, driving three 1317 Ford
cars. Mr. Felts is the Ford agent at
Winona. He reports that he sold ten
Ford3 in ten days. That is going some
even for a Ford agent.
Among the new residents in our
tached it to their Ford. The arrange- is E. E. Kay of Manhattan,
truck for their lumber yard.
Miss Mary Hollenbeck Babe, as sha
was called by her many friends in Hays
before she moved with her father to
Idaho, is here on a visit to her aunt,
Mrs. Ida KirkUnd. Sbs will probably
realn this winiefarti attend schsci.
city
the real
at Man-
j hattan, and Oakley, with headquarters
at Hays. He and hi3 family will occupy
the Freese cottage on east Normal
Avenue. Harry Freese will likely
spend the winter esaia in California.
- Canning- end prc3trvi-g tomatoes.
Order tbrrh roar grcccr. al2tf
1 hey traveled over 1200 miles m their
automobile while absent. Besides see
ing all the interesting sights in Colo
rado, they visited friends in Nebraska.
Mrs. Mary Brown of Kansas City,
Kansas, who has been visiting in
Seattle, Washington, is expected to
arrive here Sunday morning, for a
visit with her cousin, Mrs. K. C. Haas
vatchthe Hays City Drug Store
windows for specials next week.
W e hereby notify parents that
we shall hereafter prosecute any
boy or other person found stealing
wheat around our mill or from any
of our cars in the railroad yards
and we shall also prosecute any
pers on who buys this stolen grain
Hay3 City Milling & FJev. Co.
Watch the Hays City Drug Store
windows for specials next week.
Civie Letfae Notes.
Those wishing bulbs and plants foy
next year's growing, may order them
through the flower committee of the
Civic League. They will set them for
you with less trouble and less cost than
you can yourself. Phone your order ta
Mrs. H. F. Addison, chairman of com
mittee. Our merchants are giving more at
tention to window decorations. Wo
are glad to see it. Besides giving the
stores and city a dressed up appearance,
it is an excellent advertising medium,
and it pays to advertise. Large es
tablishments in the cities pay their
window decorators enormous salaries.
Nothing brings buyers in like an artistic
display of the things they want.
Some weeks ago the city issued an
ordinance notifying property owners
to destroy all Russian thistles growing
on their land also on roads or streets
adjoining same-by the first week ia
August. Parties failing to comply-.the
I city would order weeds cut and the ex-
Pnse would be added to the taxes cf
said property. Notwithstanding all
that warning there are fine specimens
of the thistle growing undisturbed by
our roads and streets. Where does the
iault lie?
viaenuy mere are a great many
persons who do not know that the city
of Hays has provided a place where
trasb, refuse and garbage may and
should ba dumped in other words
a city dumping grounds. In the draws
and along the fields by the road-siie
entering oux city are many unsightly
piles of trash. Why not haul it to the
right place, and not offend the sight of
persons driving into the city. Those
trash heaps surely do not give a stran
ger a very good impression of our citi
zens and do not speak of civic pride,
say nothine of the danger of th. filts
as a disease breeder.
Town Cleanliness and Health.
Which ought to be the healthiest
place to live, country or city? Consid
ered from the standpoint of fresh air.
iooa supply, distance from careless or
sick neighbors, out-door life, exercise,
etc., certainly the country has the advantage.
But statistics show that there is mora
typhoid fever, for instance in the coun
try than in the city. Why?
The farmer and the small town citizen
have not been obliged to be as clean
about his premises as the city dweller.
in me city, the city government has
had to take charge of matters' and the
city dweller has avoided disease, often,
by compulsion.
If every farmer and small town cit
izen were as careful as the city dweller
is compelled to be. the rural community
would be many times the healthier
place to live.
We who live in a rural region, can
make it, with its great natural advant
ages, the healthiest place on earth, if
we will. It's up to us!
MILLINERY OPENING
Monday, September 4, 1916
Hay-3, Kans.
KATHRYN TvL DEANE
DIAEIONDS
Watches, Clocks, Jewelry, Cut Glass, Sil verware,
Hand Painted China and Phonographs
Our line ia complete in every part. We will be glad to show you
through oar entire line. No trouble to show goods.
I PicNc
YOU ARE ALWAYS WELCOME AT
Her, HT2.3
