E ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
twenty-seven:
ASy4l8n 12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 2, 191G
12 PAGES
.VOL. XXVIL, NO. 107
0 AVERT S
TH
CONGRESS
WORKS
OVERTIME
jPWV
Constantine Abdicates and Venizelos Is Power Behind Throne
E REPORTED TO
HE PIT ID THE GROWN
WED I
I
(By Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
Unofficial dispatches reaching London which apparently have been much
censored, indicate that Greece has abandoned her neutrality and thrown
her lot on the side of the entente allies. Whether Greece hia already de
clared war is problematical, as is the nation or nations to whom she has
thrown down the gauntlet.
It is reported that King Constantine of Greece has abdicated and that
the crown prince has been nfimed as his successor with former Premier
Venizelos as the power behind the throne. The British foreign office says
it has no confirmation of the king's abdication.
An entente fleet of 23 warships and teven transports is reported off
Piraeus, the port of Athens. A dispatch from Athens says it is probable
that the Greek elections, set for October 8. will be postponed for a fort
night. The Greek garrisons at Saloniki, at Vodena, and at Fort Little Karabu
run, have surrendered to a committee which has taken over the administra
tion of part of Greek Macedonia, according to dispatches from Saloniki; The
revolt in Saloniki is confirmed by the British foreign office. Greeks, friendly
to the entente, surrounded the barracks of the Greek infantry in Saioniki
and are said to have exchanged shots with them. General Sarrail, allied
commander at Saloniki, intervened to present further bloodshed.
Petrograd reports fighting in Volhynia, and in Galicia. The Russians
also have seized a series of heights in the Carpathians and are movinq
vestwarrl along the Rumanian border of Bukowina. Petrograd claims ths
eanture of about 16.000 prisoners.
Withdrawal of Austro-German lines south cf the Zlota Lipa-Dniester
rection is recorded by Berlin. Proqress by Russians west of Tarnapol is
admitted, but Russian attacks in the Carpathians and near Lutsk were re
pulsed. Berlin says
Italian troops have occupied Tepeleni. Rome says two villages were
rtormed and that prisoners were taken in the fighting along the Voyusa.
Germany reports the re-occups.tion of Lovqround near Longueval and Del
villa Wood on the Sonne front. London admits a Gorman advance. On the
rest of the front in France there has been little activity.
No fiqhting is reported in Mardnio nor in Transylvania.
Petroarad claims the repulse of Turkish attacks west of Erzin'ian and
west of Oqnott in Turkish Armenia. The rout of more than two divis'ons
of Russians by the Turkish left wing is reported by Constantinople. Fiva
thousand prisoners were capture by Ire Turks.
German forces in German East Africi are in full retreat, Lieutenant
General Smuts, the British commander there renort. Mqrogoro, seat of
the Ccrman government, has been occupied by the British
HUGHES FOR PROTECTION OF ALL RIGHTS
RENEW FIGHT FOR
SUFFRAGE AMENDMENT
Fleet Reaches Piraens Italians Begin Offensive
LONDON. Sept. 1. After two days I ROME. Sept. 1 (Via London.)
of telegraphic silence with Athens. Italian troops have begun an often
during which sensational rumors of a
revolution have gained currency, but
CHICAGO, Sept. 1. Efforts to
obtain passage of the Susan B.
Anthony suffrage amendment by
the present congress were renewed
by the national woman's party to
day. Hiss Anne Martin, chairman
of the party, telegraphed Senator
Pittman, of Nevada, saying that
adjournment of congress without
passage of the amendment will
constitute a "record of hostility .to
the political freedom of American
women on the part of the party
In power.
-
H1PQLITQ VILLA
IN CUSTDDY OF
0. 5. OFFICIALS
CAUDATE FOR
PROTECTION
IN fflf SENSE
MILITARY MEN HOPE
STRIKE IS AVERTED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL, PASO, Sept. 1. Hipolito Villa,
brother of Francisco Villa, and his fi
nancial agent in Juarez in his period
of rower, is now in the custetlv of tho
I'nUed States authorities, it was i a reduction in the standards of diplo-
leurned here today.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TOPEKA, Kansas, fiept. 1. Charles
E. Hughes, speaking at the capltol
grounds to a crowd that stood through
a shower to listen today, declared that
the protection for which he stood was
more than protection ?n a commercial
sense, and embraced protection of all
rights on land and sea, of national
peace of American indutsry and against
inefficiency In government.
"I stand for protection in a compre
hensive sense," Mr. Hughes said. "I use
the word to embrace all that is needed
to foster and promote American enter
prise and to better our conditions."
The nominee sahl he placed first a
"firm insistence upon all American
rights on land and sea. "American
peace, he said, should be protected "by
our being influential to develop the in
strumentalities of international concil
iation.
This could not be done, he added, by
mutic intercourse for which he asasiled
i .v. ,.i..:t i ...... . - ' jJicui duiiiun.-ii atmn.
jMM.i .., u tiuuiuii n v t j Unless American Industry were pro.
ou.-ieive secrecy as 10 ine nreuin- ...,, . , ,..,.,;. ,rl H,i,.h.
stances of Villa's arrest, even
his I
present place of confinement and the ter,iational race
said, "we shall be a sluggard in the in-
without confirmation, comes the start
ling news of the arrival of an entente
allied fleet with transports at Piraeus,
and that the general Oreek election:;
likely will be postponed for a fort
night. The brevity of the dispatches seems
to indicate that something unusual is
happening and developments are
awaited with the greatest curiosity
here.
From fragmentary dispatches reach
ing London it is deduced that changes
of important character have taken
place in Athens and that the Greek de
facto government has decided to aban
don neutrality and align itself on the
side uf the entente.
Others take a more conservative
vttw. The Times attaches small im
portance to Wednesday's revolutionary
movement at Saloniki. declaring this
is overshadowed by the news of the
appearance of entente allies ships off
Piraeus.
"This must be taken to Indicate," it
nays, "that the allies are wearied of
the equivocations, and are resolved to
battle the intrigues of their enemies."
The Chronicle dismisses the rumors
of King Constantino's abdication and
similar reports of political changes in
Athens as "quite unfounded."
The Times says: "It would be rash
to a'-vept these reports without offi
cial confirmation. Some of them may
bo regarded mainly as shrewd guesses
on the future."
charge standing against him. But it
is known that Villa came here some
da-s ego liom Havana, hid in the
oiulyhig districts of El Paso, avoiding
the town and was arrested today by
I'niled States soldiers at Yulvte, on
the border 12 miles east of here. He
passed from the hands of soldiers
ive in Southern Albania and have oc
tupied Tepeleni. 31 miles southeast of
Avlona, on the Viyusa river, eays to- the custody of the department of ju
day s war otfice statement. 1 lus ureeK
garrison withdrew from Tepeleni. Aus
trian attacks in the Brenta valley and
near Gorizia have been repulsed, the
statement adds.
I
LUG 10 MEET
THE COMMISSI
Another Report
ATHENS. Greece. Sept. 1. (Via
London.) An entente allied fleet of
wontv-three warships and seven
transports has arrived off Piraeiis.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 1. Secretary of
State Lansing arrived here tonight to
meet members of the I arranza com
mission who will confer with the
American commissioners appointed by
President Wilson, in an effort to settle
border difficulties.
Ignacio Bonillas and Albert J. Paul,
two of the Mexican commissioners,
were expected tonight. Louis Cabrera
will arrive tomorrow.
While it has been understood that
the conferences would be held at
Portsmouth, N. H., it was reported to
,night that Croton, Conn., might be se
lected. The first session of the com
mission will be held here Monday.
FOR MEMORIAL TO ERICSSON
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Sept. 1. Presi
dent Wilsnn todav signed the bill re
cently passed by congress appro
priating $"5,000 for the erection here
of a memorial to John Ericsson, the
inventor of the Monitor.
CHEERING THRONG
PRESIDENT AT IE HOI
GREETS THE
tier, yet he is said to be
somewhere nt Fort Bliss.
During the time of Villa's reign In
Juarez, when that town was filled
with gaming houses and dance re
soi ts. Hipolito acted as his. "brother's
collection agent. After the Uniied
States gave Carranza troops permis
Kion to move oxer the Ameihan line
from Fugle Pass to Agua Prieta to
fight A'illa. an indictment was brought
against Hipolito by the grand Jury of
101 Pnso county, charging him with
trying to blow up the railway track
near Fort Hancock. Hipolito then
fled to Hatan.'i, where an attempt at
exiradition failed. He iixed there un
til recently with bis wife.
It is not known whether Villa is
connected with the recent revolution-;
nrv attempts of Mariano Tames anl
Manuel Ochoa. former Villa generals,
or is held on the old indictment.
Francisco Villa, with a force re-
cr jited ns a result of his recent ic
tories in the vicinity of S.itevo, to
about 1,000 men, - attacked General
TOHzondo in the vicinitv or Santa
Ysnbel and forced the Carranza leader
who had about COO troons. to fall
hack toward. Chihuahua City. . accord
ing to private dispatches here tonight.
The Carranza losses were estimated
at about thirty while the Villa losses
were said to have been less. After
tho engagement Villa seized a freight
train on the Mexican Northwestern
which he rapidlv set Ms men to con
vening into n troop train.
A part of his force, according to the
dispatches, was sent rorth from the
line of the railroad, apparently on a
scouting expedition.
Militarv authorities here while ad
mitting that all their information in
dicated that Villa is less than one
hundred miles south and east of EJ
Vnlle. the southernmost base of the
American expeditionary force, mani
fested no apprehension that he plar.s
to ttack any of the United States detachments.
Safeguarding public institutions
through administrative work, Mr
Hughes said, was "a hollow mockery,'
unless administration was efficient. "No
corporation could afford to run the way
tins government is, the nominee said
in speaking of his proposed executive
budget. "Vt e should cut our coat ac
cording to our cloth."
confined j Mr. Hughes repeated his charges that
i the present administration had been
more extravagant than any other in the
history of the country.
Half of the audience was women.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONG BRANCH, N. J., Sept. 1.
President Wilson was enthusiastically
welcomed to his summer home here
when he arrived tonight for the formal
notification of his renomination tomor
row. A cheering throng greeted him
at the station and reception cere
monies were held at Shadow Lawn, the
Bummer White House.
At Philadelphia, on the way from
Washington, the president received
word that the bill for averting the
threatened railroad strike was passed
by the house and was being debated by
the senate.
The special train on which the presi
dent made the trip with Mrs. Wilson,
Secretary Tumulty and Dr. Carey T.
Grayson, the White House physician,
arrived shortly before 9 o'clock. Mr.
Wilson was on the observation plat
form and cheering and handclapping
' broke out as the crowd caught sight
of him.
An automobile parade was formed
and followed the president's car to
Shadow Lawn. There a reception
committee was awaiting him. Mayor
Marshall Wooley of Long Branch and
Mayor A. C. Golden of West Long
Branch delivered brief welcoming
speeches, and the president declared
he was glad to be bacK in Jersey."
"I have been trying to get here for
a long time, but have been kept busy,
he declared.
For thirty minutes Mr. and Mrs. Wll
son remained on the broad veranda
shaking hands with residents.
Everything was In readiness tonight
lor the notification ceremonies tomor
w. . At 1 o'clock President and Mrs.
Wilson will give a luncheon for Sena
tor Ullie James and others of the noti
fication committee, members of the na
tional committee, members of the cab
inet and other prominent democrats.
The formal exercises will be held on
the lawn of President Wilson's tem
porary home, and the president will de
liver his speech at 4 o clock from tne
veranda.
The president plans to leave here
tomorrow night for Washington, where
he will arrive early Sunday. He will
remain there only three hours and then
will leave for Hodgenville, Ky., to de
liver a Lincoln speech Monday.
Tn Texas Border
CHIHUAHUA. Me.. Sept. 1. Prior
to taking Patevo. Villa announced his
Intention of leading his command to
the Texas border there to be joined
by revolutionists, who have teen liv
ing in the United States and with
whom he hag been in communica
tion, according to several members of
his command, captured nt San Fer
mln Chia-. Colonel Isidro Cardono
reported today. Colonel Cardona, com
manding the Ramos Brigade, added
that his force co-opernting with thit
of Assle'ta brothers, had combed 250
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Sept. 1. Hope,
based on the day's developments In the
mental headquarters and brigade head
quarters, under command of General
Jack Foster, left San Antonio for its
state mobilization camp, and the Third
SON B1LU
PASSES HOUSE;"
ISUP.TDSEIATE
strike situation, that there might be i Missouri infantry set out from Laredo.
no strike and that the sending north- Also the quartermaster's department
ward of guardsmen would cease while j went ahead with plans for dispatching
most of the recalled troops were still j from the border the other regiments
on the border, was expressed at south- I ordered north.
cm department headquarters tonight. General Funston announced that he
Military men said that the organiza- had ordered the entire Arizona Na
tion of the army into provisional di- tional Guard to concentrate at Fort
visions would be handicapped by the ' Huachuca. west of Bisbee. The guard,
loss of 15,000 men recalled by the war constituting much less than a regi
department, but that the work could I ment, has been split up and stationed
quickly be resumed if the northward at the Roosevelt dam and other points
movement ends. doing guard duty. It is being concen-
Meantime one regiment of the First trated so that it can gain adequate
Illinois brigade, the First, with regi- practice. e
EMPLOYES WLL
DISCUSS STRIKE
Assails Administration
KANSAS CITY, Sept. 1. Charles E.
Hughes, before an audience that filled
the great Convention Hall to its capac
ity, tonight assailed the administration
for its policy toward San Domingo and
Haiti, while it "professed inviolability
of tieaty rights and the soverign rights
of smaller states. -
Mr. Hughes said: '
"I yield to no one in respect to the
sovereignty of states great or small, for
the inviolability of treaties, for rights
under international law, but when wc
speak of the inviolability of small states
and their rights what have we to say
with respect to the course of the ad
ministration in San Domingo and Haiti,
where armed rule exists by our ma
rines on the soil of these states?
"We want in this c-iunlry professions
to match practice. We want deeds to
match words anil we wtrt '. sure po
licy which will prot . t ihu I vis '
American citizens."
Mr. H'vi.es ai;.iin declared for pro
tection of American rights, American
peace American industry, ard f'r "a
businesslike administration of govern
ment." He declared that his program was
"constructive, not destructive."
"We are d sirous to promote the suc
cess of tne national ticket," Mr. Hughes
said, "but we also desire to have both
the S'lnntt and the house in order that
we may have an administration that
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LA JUNTA, Colo., Sept. 1. The
meeting of the members of the four
brotherhoods of railroad employes ot
the Santa Fe railroad which was
scheduled to be held here tonight to
protest against the tssuance of the
strike order, according to a report, was
not held. It was learned, nowever, that
a meeting is called for Sunday after
noon at 2 o'clock. Whether the sub
ject of calling off the strike or the sub
ject of how to conduct the strike,
should the strike order be issued, is
to be discussed at this meeting, could
not be learned. There appears, how
ever, to be an under-current in favor
of calling off the strike.
BELIEVE STRIKE
T
EE
1
I WASHINGTON, Sept. 1. The
Adamson eight-hour day bill
which railroad brotherhood offic
ials have said formally would
avert the threatened strike if final
ly enacted by tomorrow night was
passed late today by the house and
sent to the senate.
The vote was 239 to 56 with five
members voting present. .
The senate recessed at 5:40 until
8 o'clock tonight when debate will
be resumed with a view to action
before adjournment if possible.
When the senate reconvened to
night, Senator Pittman moved to
strike out all of the enacting
clause of the senate bill and sub
stitute the Adamson passed by the
house. At Senator Newlands' re-
j quest unanimous consent was given
to lay aside the senate bill tem
porarily and begin consideration of
the house bill.
Shortly after 11 o'clock the sen
ate agreed to a proposal by Sen
ator Newlands to close debate at
four o'clock tomorrow afternoon
and proceed then to a vote on the
house bill and amendments and to
a final vote not later than six
o'clock. Then the senate adjourned
I ill i m. tomorrow.
IB
Embargo 'is Revoked
CHICAGO, Sept. 1. The Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy railroad tonight,
in view of the improved situation, an
nounced complete revocation of its em
barog. At the Burlington office it
was said that it was understood there
that other railroads were preparing to
cancel or largely modify their embargoes.
Modifies Embargo
NEW YORK, Sept. 1. The New
York Central railroad announced to
night modification of tis freight em
bargo to permit shipments of meat,
dairy products and news print paper,
subject to damage and delay.
until
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Sept. 1. Convinced that
congress will force them to surrender,
presidents of important western rail
roads tonight ordered rescinding or
modifying the freight embargo estab
lished in preparation for a general
railway strike. At the same time the
railroad executives announced defec
tiuns from the ranks of the railway
brotherhoods, and declared they had
enough men to operate trains, strike or
no strike. This was denged by broth
erhood officials.
Hale Holden, president of the Bur
lington, spokesman for the railroads
in the conferences with President Wil-
Rf in snift thp railroads art. eonvinnd
congress will force through the eight- : minor amendments is the same meas-
-U
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Sept. 1 Preven
tion of the threatened railroad strike
through an act of congress seemed
assured tonight, after the house by an
overwhelming vote hud passed the
Adamson eight-hour day law and the
senate had agreed to take a final vote
on the measure not later than six;
o'clock tomorrow evening.
Although it is possible that senate
amendments may make references
necessary, it is generally believed on
both sides of the capitol that when
the test comes the house bill as it
stands will be accepted and rushed to
Shadow Lawn, N. J., for President
Wilson's signature. And, while no
formal announcements were forth
coming from the brotherhood heads
tonight, it is authoritatively stated
that this will result in immediate
dispatch of code messages calling off
the general strike order for Alonday
morning. '
The Adamson bill as passed in the
nouse by a vote or 239 to 56, with
Embargo is Lifted
SIOUX CITY, lowa, Sept. 1. The
Chicago & Northwestern and the Min
neapolis & Omaha railroads today
lifted the embargo against shipments
of non-perishables. The order lifting
the embargo is effective tonight.
(Continued on Page Two)
(j
Encampement of
G. A. R. Veterans
Comes to an End
Advertises for Men
EL PASO, Sept. 1. Apparently an
ticipating a strike, the El Paso &
Southwestern railroad today placed ad
vertisements for trainmen and engine
rnen in local newspapers.
The report made the rounds of the
national guard camps here tonight that
orders have been received holding.ihe
men who expected discharges ou nie
(Continued on Page Two)
Irregularities Cause for
Removal of Postmaster
rtep.ihilcan A. P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY, Sept 1. The golden
anniversary encampment of the Grand
Army of the Republic came to a close
tonight and the thousands of veterans
were returning to their homes. The
last event of the reunion was the an
nual campfire of the National Associ
ation of Union ex-Prisoners of War,
which was addressed by several of the
present and former officers of the
Grand Army.
Tonight many of the veterans were
at Convention Hall, where Charles E
Hughes delivered an address.
The closing day was marked by the
election of officers. W llliam J. Pat
terson, of Pittsburg, was named to
succeed Captain Elias li. Monfort, of
Cincinnati, as commander in chief.
D p
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY. Mo., Sept. 1. Post-
office inspectors tonight were checking
over the property of the Kansas City,
Kansas, postoffice preparatory to turn
ing it over tomorrow to I. J. Talbot, of
Kansas City, Kas., as acting post
master, following the removal today of
William Firstenberger as postmaster
by the postoffice department.
Alleged irregularities charged by the
government, as explained by Mr. Firs
tenberger, grew out of a check for
$1,400 which he had deposited to the
postoffices account.
counted, which would have made my
total accounts $1,400. I supposed it
had been discounted and placed to my
credit and accordingly made out a
check to the postoffice for $1,400, pay
able to myself. It was returned
marked 'not sufficient funds.' Upon
inquiry I learned the note had not been
discounted, due, I am told, to the fact
that the board of ditectors, which was
to have passed upon the note, had not
met.
"Within an hour I discounted the
note and made good the money. Gov
ernment Inspectors, however, refused
to deliver the check to me which the
I ARIZONA IN COMMISSION
IN ABOUT TWO WEEKS
"When postoffice inspectors visited ; bank had turned down and took the
the office," he declared. "I made a matter up officially."
statement of the office's financial con- Asked if he would take any action in
dltion. I already had turned over a ; the matter Mr Firstenberger declared
note for $1,000 to the bank to be dis- j he had no plans at the present time.
NEW YORK, Sept. 1. The su
perdreadnaught Arizona the big
gest warship in the United States
navy at the time of her launching
in June, 1915, will be placed in
commission September 15, it was
announced today at the New York
navy yard where she was built.
The ceremony will be performed
by Captain John D. McDonald, as
signed to command the ship. The
Arizona Is a sister ship of the
Pennsylvania, commenced at Nor
folk last June. Her keel was laid
March 6. 1914. She is 608 feet long
and displaces 31.400 tons Her
speed is expected to exceed 22
knots. Her main battery con
sists of twelve 14-inch guns.
'Continued on Page Two)
hour day law before the date set for
the strike, but they are taking no
chances.
"It seems tonight that congress will
make us surrender," Mr. Holden said,
explaining an order by his freight de
partment revoking the embargo. "The
Burlington and other roads have felt
today there is little chance for a strike
now. We are revoking our embargo
so as not to inconvenience the shippers
at all. But we are going ahead with
our plans to operate trains in event of
a strike. The strike order must actual
ly be revoked before we let up in our
precautions. We have men enough to
run our trains."
While railroad executives were
claiming defection of thousands of the
brotherhood members, officials of the
unions, through Timothy Shea, vice
president of the Brotherhood of Fire
men and Enginemen, said the railways
habitually circulate such stories and
they have no fears their men would
not obey the strike call.
Suits for injunctions against calling
strikes were filed by individual broth
erhood members in various parts of
the country including a number of
Santa Fe trainmen employed in Texas.
Chairman Higgins of the General
Managers' Association of Chicago, is
sued statements remarking the dissen
sions in the brotherhood ranks and
stating that preparations to run trains
(Continued on Page Two)
T
REDFIELD ANSWERS
E
NOMNE
u-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PORTLAND Me.. Sent 1. Wm C
Redffeld. secretary of commerce to
night answered the charges of Charles
JO. Hughes that appointments to the
posts of director of census and super
intendent of the coast and geouetic
survey had been made for political
reasons without regard to the effi
ciency of the service.
"I have reason to know," he said,
"that within his own party circles the
candidate has learned that he was
misinformed."
The census work, Mr. Redfield said,
was found to be so much behind that
many large expenditures had been
wasted. I
'Soon after W. J. Harris succeeded
E. Dana Durand as director," he said
he found the work in such backward
condition that he called in to assist
him an expert commission of four
republicans and one democrat. This
expert committee reported that al
though "three and one half years
have elapsed since the enumeration,
much of the thirteenth census work
is still uncompleted, 'and they ad
vised' that the annual compilation of
statistics of forest products be
abandoned. There appears to be no
authority of law for an annual in
quiry of this character which the
record show cost $20,000 to $40,000 a
year.
"Whoever is disposed to urge the
claims of Mr. Durand as an able
administrator is recommended to read
the report of the committee."
"Now and here I plainly say that
neither my conscience or my business
judgment would allow me to retain
an office under whose administration
such tilings existed," the secretary
said of Durand. "Had he not resigned
unasked, I should have removed him,"
he added.
As to Otto II. Titmann, formerly
superintendent of the coast and geo
detic survey, Mr. Redfield said it
would "be sufficient to sav he served
two years under my administration
and offered his resignation at the end
of the first year. It was declined. He
finally withdrew, ns he himself has
written the republican candidate 'of
his own notion. '
Mr PLedfield declared the survey
had increased in efficiency under the
direction of E. Lester Jones, named to
succeed Dr. Titmann.
ure which the brotherhood leaders of
ficially declared yesterday would con
stitute a "satisfactory settlement" and
prevent the -strike. The amendment,
added to conform to a draft framed
by the senate interstate commerce
committee, would fix the effective date
January 1 instead of December 1,
1916, and exempt railroads less than
100 miles long and electric street and
interurban lines. Briefly, it provdes:
That eight hours snail be deemed a
day's work and the standard for
reckoning compensation of railway
employes operating trains in inter
state commerce after January 1, 1917,
and
That a commission of three, ap
pointed by President Wilson fcliall
investigate the effects of the eight
hour standard from six to nine months
and then report to congress, present
wages not to be reduced during the
investigation or for thirty days there-
alter, and overtime to be paid tt a
pro rata rate
It was after a day of hot debate
that the house passed the bill, under
a special rule brought in when lie
publican Leader Mann, objected to
its consideration. Less than half of
the republicans followed their floor
leader in the opposition, and when the
final vote came 70 of them lined up
with the majority while only 56 voted
aganst the measure. Just two demo
crats. Representative Steel, of Penn
sylvania, and Black of Texas, stood
out against the bill, and Representa
tive London, of New York, the only
socialist, voted for it.
Red tape was eliminated as far as
possible to rush the measure over to
the senate, which after several hours
of lively discussion over a bill re
ported by its interstate commerce
committee had recessed until eght
o'clock. When the senate reconvened
the house legislation was there await
ing action.
The senate committee hill drafted
(luring a late session last night and
another this morning, was the Adam
son measure with the same amend
ments, adopted today by the house
and an added section empowering the
interstate commerce commission to
fix the wages of interstate railroa'l
employes at the end of the proposed
period of- investigation and there
after. .
At the outset of the nght session
Senator Newlands sought and obtained
unanimous consent to put aside the
senate bill and take up the one sent
over from the house; thereby paving
the way for quick final action without
parliamentary formalities that other
wise would be necessary. Then Sen
ator I'nderwood brought tip the is
sue over which the senate is divided
(Continued on Page Two)
American Bar Association
Criticizes the President
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Sept. 1. President Wil
son and the railway trainmen brother
hoods were criticised for their stand
in the threatened railway strike in an
address before the American Bar As
sociation tonight by Frederick W.
Lehmann, of St. Louis.
"If one man and one body of men
can interfere with the congress of the
United States, as has just been wit
nessed, in connection with the pro
posed eight-hour day law, then this
will not be a country of, by and for the
people," Lehmann said.-
Lehmann was formerly solicitor gen
eral of the United States.
Senator George Sutherland, of Utah,
was elected president of the associa
tion for 1917 today, defeating by four
votes Walter George Smith, of Phila
delphia. The vote was 28 for Senator
Sutherland and 22 for Smith. Smith
was put on the executive committee.
'A
