V""
r;;vr4$ ,v ;;js r
Vr" '.. - 'rff
v. JV ''
4 )',.- -.1 .
; WEATHER FORECAST:
PiroWbly Thundershowers
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
HOME
EDITION
NtfMBER 9011.
WASHINGTON; SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 2, 1916.
PRICE ONE CENT.
jor , ijff.
M
ATHENS PUT UNDER
MARTIAL LAW AS
REBELLION GROWS
Allied Troops Reported Landed at Seaport
of Greek Capital; v King Constantine
Critically III; Roumanians Take Her-
mannstadt, .in Transylvania
KAISER SENDS 50,000 MORE TROOPS
LONDON, Sept. 2. Revolution in Greece is spread
ing rapidly throughout Thessaly and Espirus, said a Rome
wireless dispatch today. Martial law has been proclaimed
at Athens and Piraeus, the dispatch said.
The condition of King Constantine, who is ill, is re
ported serious. '
Anglo-French troops are believed to have been landed
at Piraeus with the intention of marching five miles north
east to Athens and garrisoning the Greek capital.
No report of an actual landing has thus far been re
ceived. But two dispatches from Athens today reported
the arrival of allied transports, off Piraeus harbor and Lon
don newspapers declared this undoubtedly meant that the
allies had decided to put on end to pro-German intrigues at
Athens.
Fifty thousand German troops have arrived at the
Transylvania" city of Klausenburg to check the Roumanian
invasion, says a dispatch from The Hague.
The Austrians have evacuated the city of Maros Vasar
hely on the main railway feeding their armies in northeast
ern Transylvania and are preparing to retire from the sur
rounding country, according to advices from Berlin.
jCM.ar.os Vaacrhely ,a city of 25,000 inhabitants-,-lies
sixty-five miles west of the Roumanian frontier and is the
chief city of Szekerland.)
The Germans are hurrying other troops into Transyl-
(Continued on Page Two.)
STRIKEWOULD CLOSE
PLANT, SAYS FORD
1
Automobile Manufacturer Wires
the President Urging Means
to Avert Walkout.
Hanry Ford, the Detroit automobile
manufacturer, telegraphed the Presi
dent today that hla ' plant will be
closed down and 49,000 men thrown
out of work unless a railroad strike
, If averted.
He praised the President's .ef forte
to avert the strike, and expressed the
hope that the effort will be successful.
Hla telegram folio we:
The President: The moment'lt Is
Soaltlvely known that a strike will
ecome effectives on the railroad
the Ford Motor Company will of
absolute necessity shut down Ita
factory and all of Its assembly
plants throughout the country and
very man of Ita more than 46,000
workers wll have to ro off the
pay roll.
'Our buslnssa la so organised that
ih a supplies and products must be
ept moving constantly. We can
not move a day without railroad
service. We are making 1,300 cars
a day. The materials must be
moved In and cars out. I sincere
ly hope something can be done to
Avert the atrlke. Tour efforts are
appreciated here and should be
commended by every citizen In
the country, HENRY FOHD.
The telegram was forwarded to the
President at Bhadow Lawn for
acknowledgment. From assurances
received by the President that the
eight-hour bill will pass the Benate
this urternoon. White House officials
believe the President will be able
to tell Mr. Ford the strike will be
averted.
ROUMANIANS TAKE
SIX HUNGARY TOWNS
BUCHARBBT, Bept. 3. Roumanian
troops have ocoupled tho Transyl
vanlan towns of Kronstadt, Tohanul,
Cslcieiiesog, Tslcaerada, Mouta, and
Pedeglmva, It wbi officially an
nounced today, Roumanian artillery
Is now domlnatlnr the Orsovo-Temes-
var railway, the principal supply
route lor Austrians near tne Herman
frontier.
The Roumanians have taken 1,800
prisoners. Inoludlnir fifteen officers.
and have captured 100 cars of war
material At tho depot at aeslmesh.
Fire In Truck House.
The flremon of No, 6 Truck Company
were called out of bed shortly before
1 o'clock this morning to fight a (Ire
in the cellar of their own quarters.
Dent place, between Thirty-fourth and
Thirty-fifth streets northwest.
The man who discovered the Are sent
a local alurm to the second floor. The
company found a blase In a woodpile,
eating Us way up under the metal
celling, A hose line was run In from
the street and the Ore extinguished. The
cause Is unknown.
HUGHES IN ST. LOUIS;
TO TALK ON HYPHEN
Arrives After Receiving Most
Enthusiastic Reception of
Tour In Kansas City.
By PERRY ARNOLD.
ST. LOUI8, Bept. 1 After receiving
last night at Kansas City what was
probably the most enthusiastic recep
tion accorded him. Charles Evans
Hugbes came to St. Louts today re
Invigorated. It was believed the candidate would
make some further and clearer refer
ences to that portion of Impolicies re
ferring to the hyphen in this the city
having the second largest Qermarf
Amerlcan population In the United
States.
In speeches which he delivered
through Kansas yesterday, Hughes took
occasion to elaborate his views on the
necessity for unity of spirit in the
movement for Americanism.
The Governor and Mrs. Hughes were
touched today by a letter from a sixteen-year-old
girl In Portland, Ore.,
who wroto that she had a dream In
which she saw and shook hands with
Hughes and Mrs. Hughes In the White
;uu.c. duo n now mo arcnm was com
ng true. The candidate wroto hr a
unci iiiuiBtm, ana jnr. nugnes added u
nostacripe thinking the little lady for
her prediction.
In fit. f nlllM Inrf.v tYt ...IM.I..A.. ...
the central figure In an automobile pa-
rado on his arrival shortly -ifter 8
TiWh .u . 'K""1 ol " mncneoa
ii . . nuoiicc oi me uusiness
tcn a Leaguo at the Missouri Athletla
Lite In the afternoon he Ib to shake
hands with the public at the Hotel Jef
tfJTjon. and at night speak In tho
Loiiseum. Tomorrow he will rest, leav
ing at night for Nashville, Tenn.
CHURCH MAY REVISE
FIVE COMMANDMENTS
NEW YORK, Bept. 1-The coming
general convention of the Protestant
Episcopal Church will be obliged to
pass on a proposal to revise and shorten
the first five of the Ten Command
menta, A commission of bishops, clergy, and
laymen has been considering the project
for some time, and has iurntd In a
renort Indorsing it.
ine commission reoommends the
change on the ground that arguments
for the observance of divine Taw are
not essentia) to the laws themselves.
The commandments in their revised
form are:
Kirst-ThoU shalt have no other gods
but Me. Becon-Thou shalt not make
unto thysef any graven image, nor the
likeness of anything that Is In the
heaven abovo. (ho eurth beneath or In
tho water under the earth; thou shalt
not bow down to them, nor worship
them. Third Thou shalt not take tho
name of tho lxrd, they Ood, in vain.
Kourth-Hemember that thou keep holy
the Habbath Day. Fifth-Honor thy
father and thy mother.
Bavarian Prince Who
Succeeds Hindehburg
In Command in East
Photo by Underwood Underwood.
PRINCE LEOPOLD.
STRIKE FEAR FADES
Local Market Has Abundant
Supplies and Advances Are
Forestalled, Merchants Say.
Food prices 'today, reflecting the let
up In strike talk, reacted from the high
levels of Friday, and came to a nearer
normal level. That this condition Is
likely to keep up except for a few tem
porary reactions, Is tne belief of local
commission merchants.
The reaction was especially noticeable
In the case of potatoes. They were
quoted yesterday from H.JS to 11.50 a
barrel. Their quotations at JO o'clock
this morning were, wholesale, $3.00 to
1X60 a barrel. That an advance of about
60 cents per barrel may be expected be
fore the close of business today was the
prediction of the William W. Leashear
Company, but It was thought very un
likely that the price would reach yes
terday's high level.
The record prices yesterday had a
tendency to draw foodstuffs from all
over the section here, and as a result
the market was flooded this morning
and prices broke considerably In some
lines.
No Advance in Meat.
Meat prices are the same as yester
day's quotations, no advance having
been experienced, and the supply for the
city In case of a strike being much im
proved. "There will be no meat famine,"
declared D. D. Dutrow, manager of the
Bwlft ft Co. branch here, "and I believe
that meat prices havo reached their
senlth."
Seven earn of meat are expected to
arrive from Chicago today or tomorrow,
consigned to the local Swift plant. Thero
la in the city today enough meat to last
It for two weeks, and with the arrival
of additional supplies today and tomor
row, any prospect of a meat famine has
gone glimmering.
Eggs today range from a to 30 cents a
dozen, according to grade. There has
been no advance In the price of chickens,
which are selling at 27 and 28 cents a
pound wholesale. There has been a
slight Increase In the price of butter,
which Is quoted at 23 cents. This ad
vance, however, authorities declare, has
no connection with the threatened
strike but is due to a decreased pro
duction. Prices Lower Than in ,West.
Local commission merchants ore con
gratulating themselves on the lower
Price that potatoes bring hero In com
parison with strike prices In tho West.
They point to the Indianapolis prlco of
$1.75 fl bushel, or $5.2f a barrel, and com
pare It with the local quotation of $3.50
a barrel. The Capital City housewife
Is getting off light, Indeed, la their
claim.
Wheat Up Two Cents.
CHICAGO, Sept. 2.-Septcmber wheat
jumped 2 cents at the opening of the
local grain market today on reports
that there will be no rail strike and
embargoes will be lifted. December nnd
May were up 1 cent nnd 'i respectively.
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBVaBlVvV
ASBBBBBBBBsHaP": V"E??$i
AbBBBBBBBBKV IX' &LMtl
4bbbbbbbbbT; i, "- tjbbbbTMX
grSBK T -SBB , A 'jWf
rfKK. 'B J' Mm
MMHbbW .jbbksbbW ' JMkmU
tfHnSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB telSBBBTsl
SBBBBBlBlaBBBBBBBB'(lHK!PlB
BBBBBBBB9BBBBBBBBHBBBVSBBBBXflBBaSSnlB
BBBBBBBviBBBBBBBBBlBBHUtWBBBBBBBBlBVflK?
BBBBBBbKJI
BBBBHftTCLwWMjUl B ., J2W A
BJFlEfzZjfJj Jlur l
HbBBbVv rJBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBtA" .
BBBBBBBBBBBVUBBBBBBBBBBBBPI't i
HBj3HbVv -J
lBBBBBBUVrSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBa. fcBBBBBH
bbbbbbbbbbtsbbbbk y ' 4BBri
FOOD COSTS DROP AS
STAGE SET FOR
CEREMONY AT
SHADOW
LAWN
Banners Are Flying and Demo
crats Are Joyous for Wilson
Notification.
WASHINQTONIANS ARE THERE
Threatening Clouds Do Not
Dampen Arder of Thousands
Who Cheer Party Leader.
MJNO BIIANCH, .V. J Sept. . The
stage la all set for the ceremonies
at which President Wilson will be no
tified of his renomlnatlon for the
Presidency.
Thousands of Democrats are here
and all roads converge at 8hadow
Lawn.
Automobiles and vehicles of all de
scriptions laden with Joyful Demo
crats began to arrive early In In
creasing numbers and amid Increasing
din.
If the weather man had plotted to
dampen the ardor of the occasion, he
was sadly foiled. Horns, cow bells,
ond various other racket devices con
tributed a raucous chorus to the gen
eral pandemonium, and long before
the noon hour, voices were hoarse
from cheering.
It was a strange scene to be set in
this colony of stately mansions, back
amid groves of towering cedars and
magnificent hedges. Across the road
from Khadow Lawn Is the magnificent
summer estate of Murray Guggen
heim. On every side are the homes
of multl-mllllonalres. In front or
which tramped lusty-voiced Demo
crats from all parts of the country.
Reads Strike New a.
Immediately after breakfast the
President called for morning papers
to read latesf developments In Con
gress regarding legislation which he
had proposed as a means of averting
the atrlke. During tha nls;ht tele
grams had bwp recelveglfrom "VVaeh-
mgian iciimi ui me Denara.agreeii
to take a vote 6n th Kills not til
than o'clock this afternoon.
m
The President was crtfronted tha
nrst ining toaay Dy a party snag
whe nthe State Democratic committee
called to discuss the. Jersey situation.
There Is a lively fight on between
Judge J. H. Westcott, the President's
personal friend, and Senator Martlne
for nomination for the Senate at the
primaries. The President's advisors
have Indicated that aMrtlne stems the
certain winner with the Irish and
German votes. The President, how
ever, made it clear today that he
would not mix Into local situations
anywhere. N
Political conferences occupied the
morning. At 1 o'clock the President en
tertained at lunchvon for the Demo
cratic National ommlttee, the American
members of the Mexican Peace Commis
sion, and othed Istlngulshed guests.
First Sleep in Jersey.
President Wilson slept last night In
New Jersey for the first time since he
left the State for the White House. He
awoke today to And the weather man
threatening to supply Tegular "Demo
cratic weather" for the notification
ceremonies. The forecast was unsettled
and probably showers.
En route to Shadow Lawn, the sum
mer capital, the President stopped at
Asbury Park last night, nl the crowd
at the station was a big German who
boosted his son to the platform, saying:
(Continued on Second Page.) ,
Baker Gets Report
On Militia Camps
Dr. Thomas Darlington Makes Ver
bal Preliminary Sutement -on
Inspection.
Dr. Thomas Darlington, of Washing
ton, who was sent by the Civic Federa
tion to Inspect mllltla campi on the bor
der, made a verbal preliminary report
to Secretary of War Baker today.
"Many features of the work done, both
by the regular army and mllltla. were
highly commended by Dr. Darlington,"
Secretary Baker said, "and some sug
gestions were mado looking to an Im
mediate simplification of the mechanics
of army supplies. Extended critical
studies of the various features of the
situation were mado by Dr. Darlington,
and will be embodied in a carefully
drawn official .report In writing."
Dr. Darlington was Quoted In news dis
patches from the border as criticising
conditions In mllltla camps. Secretary
Baker says, however, his forthcoming
report win ne constructive in cnaracter.
JAFFERY
A Remarkable Love Story
By W. J. LOCKE ' ,
, Begins Today in THE SATURDAY TIMES
Complete' in Three Issues Sept. 2, 9, and 1 6.
Only Woman Member
Of Committee Which
Announces Nomination
- t
SBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBRrtVWWtmVe
SBBBBBBBBBBBBBX 4 MsBBBBBBBBBBBBWtSBBBWaWBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBWnt
fcT "VbbbbbbbbbbbbbKsbbHHbbbbbbbbbbbIbbbbbW5
SBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbL'V .-,'lsBBBBBBBBaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBsWl
HbbbbbbbbbbbbbbBc "SP ' '$f
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbE 'wPST A " "fyje
VVT (i'BBBBBBBBBBBBBfcferCiBBBSclSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBVx
Wioto by lUnii Vft Ewlnc
MRS. A. CAMINETTI.
E
BY SOUTHERN R. R.
Confident Congressional Action
Will Eliminate Possibility of
a Strike. .
M;Conndent: that Congressional action
nas.jpraoucaiiy eiwinaxed all possi
bility of a strlkeV.'rSe Southern Rail
way COmpanysthls.aftsrnoon so modi
fled Its embargo as to make all man
ner of freight kestlned to points or
Its lines acceptable without restrlc
tlon. While other lines enterlnt
Washington have not yet been ad
vised by their home offices of em
bargo changes. It Is expected that
steps similar to that of the Southern
will Immediately be taken by East
ern lines.
The transportation department of
the Bouthern sent to Its agents anc
connections, as effective at once, tht
following modification of tne em
bargo: ry
"1. Live stock and perlshablefrelght
will be accepted from shippers arid from
connecting lines. If destined to ptfnts on
the Southern a 11 way. t
". Live stock, perishable freight and
explosles destined to points on, or via.
connecting lines will not be accepted
unless arrangements are made In ad-,
vance.
"3. Other freight Is to accepted with
out restrictions.''
The carriers here received notification
today that two Western roads, the Bur
lington and Mtasourl Pacific, have llftci'
embargoes In expectation that then
will be no atrlke. On Eastern lines
however, there appeared to bo a dis
position to wait (he calling off of thr
strike before a modification of embar(
orders is attempted.
Railroads Lifting
Freight Embargoes
CHICAGO, Sept. 2. Official an
nouncement was made here todny u
the .offices of the General Managers
Association that the following addi
tional roads have lifted their embar
goes on perishable freight shipments
Chicago and Alton, Illinois Central.
and'Chlcago and Eastern Illinois.
DALLAS, Tex.. Sept. 2. The KaO
railroad today lifted Its embargo or
perishable freight, which had been
In effect since Wednesday, and the
blanket embargo on all freight, which
was to have become effective at 7
o'clock this morning.
NEW YOItK. Bept. 2. The New
York Central. Pennsylvania, Erie, and
Lackawanna railroads will raise
their freight embargo this' afternoon
or tonight, Joseph Hartlgan, com
missioner of weights, and measures,
and in chnrge.of the food price In
vetlgatlon, said he was informed
today.
MBARGO
MODIFIED
SENATE HURRYING
ANTI-STRIKE BILL
TOWARD PASSAGE
Eight-hour Measure Being Pushed Through
Upper House Amid Stormy Debate.
.Final Vote Will Be Taken At
Six O'clock tonight
GREAT RELIEF FELT IN OFFICIALDOM
Threatened Walk-out to Be Called Off, Ac
cording to Agreement, When President
Signs It Will Be Rushed to
Him Early Tonight.
Amid a storm of debate, the Adamson eight-hour bill,
intended to prevent the threatened railroad strike, is pro
ceeding to its passage in the Senate.
Following the House action of last night in passing the
bill, the Senate, under agreement reached at a night session,
will pass the measure at 6 o'clock this evening.
The bill will be passed either exactly as the House pass
id it or with little change. It then will be rushed to President
Wilson at Shadow Lawn, New Jersey, for his signature.
Brotherhood leaders, once the bill is passed, will take
steps to call off the strike:
FEELING OF RELIEF IN OFFICIALDOM.
Already a general feeling of relief is experienced in
Congressional, official and public circles because the strike
is looked on as prevented.
.X)nce the bill is passed and the strike called, off, Con
gress will hasten to wind up its business and adjourn. Many
members will leave Washington tonight. Leaders plan to
end the session Wednesday if possible and by Thursday In
any event. It is believed adjournment will be reached
Thursday.
The situation was summed up this afternoon by Sena
tor Simmons, chairman of the Finance Committee of the
Senate, one of the foremost Democratic leaders. He said:
"The Adamson bill will apparently be passed, either
without amendment or so slightly amended there will be no
delay in conference.
WILL DEFEAT WAGE-FIXING PLAN.
"Tha proposition to empower the Interstate Commerce
Commission to fix wages of trainmen will be defeated, not
because the Senate is necessarily opposed to it, but because
i majority feel the bill, which is pending, should not be com
plicated with this amendment at this time.
"It is the feeling of the majority that if the eight-hour
bill is nassed. wares of the railroad employes will be fixed for
,ibout a year, and that in the
aluable information on which to base legislation.
"Other railroad legislation will not be enacted this ses
sion. The revenue bijl will be passed next week. The de
"iciency bill will be passed without delay. We may adjourn
next Wednesday, but I think it will be Thursday."
The opinion that the Adamson bill, passed by the
House with 'little or no change, would pass the Senate to
night was general.
ATMOSPHERE CHARGED WITH POLITICS.
In an atmosphere surcharged with politics, passion, and
bitlerness, as well ,as a sense of satisfaction because a ttrike
had been avoided, the discussion of the Adamson bill went
on in the Senate.
This bill was substituted for the Newlands bill at last
night's session. Senator Underwood then offered his plan
for wage-fixing by the Interstate Commerce Commission as
an amendment to the Adamson bill.
Senator Hardwick of Georgia, one of the prominent
Democratic Senators, was one of the first speakers. He
urged the wisdom of the plan to give the Interstate Com
merce Commission power to fix wages. He declared it
absurd that the commission, which can.fix rates, should not
also be empowered to fix wages.
. He urged a permanent piece of lawmaking.
Denouncing the President for "playnig petty politics
on the eve of an election," Senator Snerman of Illinois de
clared that by its proposed action Congress would "abandon
the rest of the American people to 'their fate."
"Why should the Interstate Commerce Commission
longer exist?" he asked.
"Why should the board of mediation exist? What
becomes of mediation ?"
He declared that if politics could not be forgotten and
legislation enacted to the interest of the whole people, thju
meantime Congress can obtain
h
