II - ' Todays Metal Prices ; A fd iYVlt1 tVVTV 4 Jjy I
H I 27 at 28; Spelter, $9.25. f and Sunday, except showers tonight
i I - ,n extreme south portion; cooler In
1 1 t FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. west portion Sunday. M
I Forty-sixth Year-No. 211. Prlce Ftve Cent8. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 2, 1916. Entered Second-Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden, Utah.
I Great Railroad Strike Called Off I
I After Adamson Bill Passes Senate I
ADVANCE IN LOWER TRANSLYVAN1A
i
Territory North Being Evacuated Russian Assaults on East
Line Fail Serbians Repulse Bulgars on Macedonian
Front German Forces Reoccupy Trenches on
Somme Front Report Greece Had Cast Lot
With Allies Not Borne Out.
!
j London, Sept. 2. The Rumanian
i advance in lower Transylvania has
been checked by the Teutonic forces,
i an official statement from Vienna re-
ports. This announcement relates
j the repulse of the Rumanians near
I the Iron Gates of the Danube in the
vicinity of Orsova.
Farther north the Austrian evacu-
ation of Transylvanian territory Ib be-
i ing carried out without series fight-
ing. Vienna announces the abandon-
, ment of Hermanstadt, one of the most
important towns of Transylvania.
The Austrian communication indi
cates that the new offensive of the
I Russians in Bukowina and eastern Ga-
j licia was inaugurated over a wide
m front Most of their assaults failed,
?. Vienna announces.
! The Bulgarians renewed their at-
( tackB last night along the western end
of the Macedonian front. The French
war office asserts they were repulsed
by the Serbians.
; The report that King Constantine
had abdicated and that Greece would
join the allies at once has not been
borne out.
The newly formed Greek committee
of national defense has proclaimed -a
provisional government of Macedonia.
The Germans attacked the French
on the Somme front last night and
re-occupied trenches south of Estres,
taken recently by the French. A small
British gain near Delvllle wood is an
X nounced in London.
Official Statement.
"Last night, as the result of aminor
operation," says the British official
statement, reporting the military op
erations on the Somme front in
France, "we drove the enemy from a
portion of a small area intersected
! with trenches northwest of DelviUe
wood, which he had recaptured on
J, Thursday."
:? "On the other parts of the line
there were no important infantry en
i counters. During tSe last twelve
j hours hostile artillery generally de-
I veloped greater activity and some in
I fontry action, but intermittent bom
V bardmentB have been carried out by
v the enemy, who used a large propor-
t & tlon of gas shells.
j- Admit Reoccupatlon.
:j Paris, Sept. 2 (noon). After re-
' peated violent attacks last night, the
r Germans re-occupied part of the
trenches recently taken by the French
on the Somme front, south of Estres.
1 In the Champagne, the announce-
J ment says, Russian troops put to
li flight a German contingent northwest
of Auberive after a spirited engage-
j ment.
The statement says:
;i "On the Somme front the Germans
z made violent attacks on a portion of
the trenches taken by us on August
31, south of Estres. They suceeded
In occupying some parts of these po
i sitions, at the cost of appreciable
if lOBSCS
"In the Champagne German recon-
noiterlng parties west of Auberive and
1 south of Tahuro were dispersed by
j hand grenades. A Russian patrol put
), to flight a party of the enemy north-
'i west of Auberive after lively fight-
.1 ing. . .
"On the right bank of the Mouse
the night was disturbed owing to the
nervousness of the enemy, who viol
ently bombarded our positions in the
neighborhood of Thiaumont work and
i for no reason whatever set up cur-
talus of fire."
R Rumanians Repulsed.
Berlin, Sept. 2 (by tireless to Say
U vllle). Austro-Hungarlan troops on
1 tho Rumanian front again repulsed
the Rumanians near Orsova and Her
; cules-Fucrloe on Aug. 31, says the of
ficial statement issued by tho Auto
Hungarian army headquarters under
date of Sept. 1.
Tho statement adds that tho Tran
sylvania towns of Navy-Szebon (Her
manstadt) and Zepsl-Szeut-Gyorgy,
north of Kronstndt, already had been
evacuated by the Austro-Hungarlans
on Wednesday.
' The statement says:
"Rumanian front: '. Near Orsova and
J Hercules Puerdoe, t,he enemy yester
day was again rep.ulsed. Otherwise
there were no Important engagements.
Nagy-Szeben and Sepso-Bzent-Gxiorgy
already had been evacuated the day
before yesterday.
"The Russians befean nnothor at
tack in Bukowina anfi In east Gallcla.
i In the Carpathians arid near StaniBlau
the Russians everywhere were re
pulsed. I "General Boehm-Ermolll frustrated
J a Russian advance near Brepelnlkl.
The enemy entered isolated places of
f, our lines, but was repullsed by a coun
; ter attack of GermanV troops. The
wMtr Russians lost two officers and 407
KB mcn. wuo wer0 taken prisoners.
HVL Southwest of Kaizovka a hostile ad-
ln vance failed."
M In the Italian theatc, the state-
ment says, an attack by Italian In
fantry south of Salcano and west of
Bokovlsczsa was driven back.
Italians Make Gain.
Rome, Sept. 2 (via London, 1:45
p. m.) Violent artillery fighting oc
curred yesterday on the Trentlno
front, the war office announced to
day. An Austrian attack In the Su
gano valley was repulsed.
"The fighting yesterday consisted
principally of artillery actions, which
were especially violent on the Tren
tlno front," the statement says. "In
the Sugano valley the enemy launch
ed an attack against our positions on
Monte Civarone, but was driven off
promptly.
"Hostile aircraft dropped bombs
on Rolle pass, at the head of the Cla
mon valley. No damage was done."
oo
PRESIDENT MAKES
ACCEPTANCE TALK
Recounts Record of Demo
cratic Party in Address at
r k- Long Branch, 'N. J.
DEFENDS HIS POLICIES
Excoriates Those Who Would
Draw United States Into
Bloody War.
Long Branch, N. J., Sept. 2. Presi
dent Wilson formally accepted his re
nomination here this afternoon with
an address recounting the legislative
record of the Democratic party, a vlg
orouB defense of his Mexican policy
his dealings with the European bel
ligerents and an outline of his view
of America's obligations for the fi
ture.
With the members of the notlfica
tion committee, headed by Senator
James, grouped about him at Shadow
Lawn, tho summer "White HouBe, the
president declared the Republican
party was "just the party that cannot
meet the new conditions of a new
age" and that the day of little Amer
icanism when "methods of 'protec
tion' and industrial nursing were the
chief study of our provincial states
men" was past and gone.
"We can no longer Indulke our
traditional provincialism," said the
president "We are to play a leading
part In the world drama whether we
wish It or not. We shall lend, not
borrw; act for ourselves," not Imitate
or follow; organize and .initiate, not
peep about merely to see where we
may get in."
Speaking of his diplomatic negoti
ations with the European belliger
ents the president followed a declar
ation that while property rights
be vindicated by claims for damages,
the loss of life and tho fundamental
rights of humanity never could be,
with this statement:
"The record Ib clear and consistent
throughout and stands distinct and
definite for anyone to judge who
wishes to know the truth about it."
Immediately afterward he said:
"I am the candidate of a party, but
I am above all things else than Amer
ican citizen. I neither seek the fav
or nor fear the dlsplcaaure of that
small alien element amongst us which
puts loyalty to any foreign power be
fore loyalty to tho United States."
Regarding his Mexican policy the
president reiterated that the people
of Mexico were struggling "blindly It
may bo and as yet Ineffectually" to
free themBelves from alien interests
"some of them Americans pressing for
things tboy could never have got In
their own country," and that he would
do everything In his power to prevent
anyone standing in their way.
"It is a hard doctrine," said he,
"only for those who wlBh to get some
thing for themselves out of Mexico."
At another point the president said:
"Mistakes I have no doubt made
In this perplexing business but not In
purpose or. object," He declared at
another point:
"I am more interested in the for
tunes of oppressed men and pitiful
women and children than in any prop
, erty rights whatever."
At the outBet of his references to
the legislative achievements of his
: party the president enumerated the
' laws placed on the statute books re
, latlng to business Including tariff re
- vlalon, anti-trust laws, revision of the
bunking and currency system, rural
credits, rehabilitation of the merchant
marine and the creation of the fed
eral trade commission.
"What other party has understood
the task so well or executed It so In
telligently and energetically?" he
asked. "What other party has at
tempted It at all? The Republican
leaders apparently know of no means
of assisting business but protection.
How to stimulate it and put it upon a
new footing of energy and enterprise
they have not suggested."
At the conclusion of his review of
the party record, the president de
clared: "This extraordinary recital must
sound like a platform, a list of san
guine promises; but it is not. It is a
record of promises made four years
ago and now actually redeemed in
constructive legislation." Then, later
he said: "We have In four years
come very near to carrying out tho
platform of the Progressive party as
well as our own; for we are also pro
gressives." The president's address was some
5,000 words long, one of the most
lengthy he has delivered on any oc
casion since taking office.
oo
BRITISHERS TAKE
AMERICAN GOODS
Several Thousand Packages
Missing When Kaful Ar
rives at Manila.
Manila, Sept 2. Tho cargo seized
at Hong Kong by the British author-
steamship Kafue from New York for
Manila, was brought here today by
tho British steamship City of Dur
ham. Several thousand packages are
missin.
The City of Durham was chartered
to the owners of the Kafue in order
toshow continuous voyage and thus
eseape the payment of duties.
OGDEN Ml TO OPEN
PICTURE TKElTBt
Brlgham City, Sept 2. Brigham
will have another modem picture the
itcr. W. H. Shurtliff of Ogden and
vV. R. Dredge of this city are back
jf the new project, and plans for the
heater are already so far under way
iat the promoters have purchased a
o-foot frontage on Main street, one
f the best business locations in the
ity, upon which they will erect a
nodern theater.
oo
RUSSIANS DRIVE
OUT THE TURKS
Washington, Sept. 2. The Russians
have driven the Turks out of Sultan
abad, a city 200 miles inside the Per
sion border, according to a despatch
received In official quarters here. It
was said large Russian reinforcements
recently sent into north Persia prob
ably could check the Turkish advance
on Teheran, the Persian capital.
I THERE'S REAL ART IN AQUAPLANING; j
THE GREEK GARB GIVES IT COLOR)
Aquaplaning in the classic costume.
Aquaplaning is an exhilirating pastime but be sure you can keep a
nice balance before you try it. Miss Helen Moeller's Greek dancers ara
willing to take a chance and the antique garb they wear makes it lots more
interesting. Perhaps the Greek dancers of 300 B. C. would have aqua-,
planed aa well if they'd had more motor boats.
DEMOCRATS OF WEBER
COUNTY CONFIDENT OF
WINNING THE ELECTION
S. Bamberger, Democratic candi
date for governor, was given an en
thusiastic welcome this morning by
the representative Democrats of We
ber county, when ho entered the coun
ty convention announced. Before he
could gain a seat, all of the delegates
arose to their feet, applauding and
cheering, the demonstration indicating
that the Democrats of the county will
stand Bolldly behind their candidate
at the November election.
After being Introduced by the tem
porarj' chairman as the next governor
of Utah, Mr. Bamberger responded to
the greeting with a brief and charac
teristic talk.
"I wondered when I got off the train
this morning," he said, "who told the
people of Ogden I was coming, for 1
saw you had decorated the streets. I
came here, not to take part In your
convention, but just to invite the
Democrats of Weber county and your
Republican friends and you have
CUTE LITTLE BARE FEET WIN HER I
I PRIZE AT SOCIETY COSTUME BALL j
Mrs. Carl Graham Fisher of In-
f$m&Wffrirh dianapolis appeared in a typical
$JWr&&fm& Hawaiian costume with bare feet at
zflm- e Hawaiian ball recently given at
JKf ' " jfl&i Narragansett Pier. Her costume was
WBfv way VCIy Pretty and colorful with short
,T .fir fluffy skirt and se woro arlandj3j of
KlM ' A'&i&r. Fisher's costume won tecond prizo
B''lfe'' before many others that were attrac-
Mrs. Carl Graham Fisher and the costume that won the prize.
many of them to attend the inau
gural ball,"
When the applause and laughter
that greeted these remarks had sub
sided, the gubernatorial candidate
continued:
"Now, I want to give you a little
advice. This campaign is going to
be so easy and self-sustaining that
all we Democrats will have to do is
to open the door and invite all of the
voters In, and they will come. I've
said about enough anl you can now
go on with your business, I thank
you."
Another round of applause followed
the conclusion of the cheering and Joc
ular address and, after the adjourn
ment of the convention, many of the
delegates personally greeted tho
speaker.
The meeting" a continuation of the
convention held August 6t, was held
In Judge J. A. Howell's court room
at the county court house. It was
called to order by County Chairman
S. S. Smith, who Introduced Valentine
Gideon as temnornrv olmlrTrmn Tn
accepting the position, Mr. Gideon
said he was pleased and proud to act
In such a capacity in a Democratic
gathering of any kind. Continuing,
he referred to the Democratic state
convention, declaring it to have been
the greatest political gathering held
in tho state. He then reviewed a
number of laws enacted by the Demo
cratic national administration, men
tioning In particular, the child labor
law signed by President Woodrow
Wilson. The Republicans, he said,
were claiming the credit for having
fostered this and other reform legis
lation, but, he continued, "It remain
ed for the Democratic administration
to take action on many of these re
form measure that the Republicans
had not the courage to enact Into
law."
Speaking further, the chairman de
clared that the Republican speakers
now on the stump were using much
time in assailing the international
policy of the present national admin
istration, but that none of them had
said that a single law enacted by the
Democrats would be repealed, If the
Oepubllcan party was returned to
power. Entering upon a discussion
of Uutah political affairs, he said
that the Scpubllcans who had con
trolled the state for ycar3 had talked
of prohibition, but that even after
their representatives had been vir
tually pledgod upon election to enact
a prohibition, law, it was not yet on
the statute books.
"Can the people of Utah risk leg
islation in th.e hands of such a party7"
Mr Gideon continued, "or would It
not be best to trust the party that
haB, thorugh Its national administra
tion, shown that it can and will act
on tho courage of Ub convictions. The
people will not have to hold mass
meetings of to follow up tho members
of the legislature to have the pre-
(Contlnued on page 13.)
RAILROAD MANAGERS LIFT ALL I
EMBARGOES, SEEING PEACE AHEAD I
Brotherhoods Decide Not to Cancel Walk-out Order Until
President Wilson Actually Signs Proposal Designed to
Prevent Recurrence of Present Situation; Tension jl
Due to Fear of General Tie-up Relaxes as
Problem Finds Its Own Solution. 'H
Washington, Sept. 2. The senate late today rejected the
Underwood amendment to the Adamson bill which would give 'H
the Interstate Commerce Commission authority to fix rail- 'H
road wages and hours of service. The vote was 14 to 57.
The senate also rejected Senator Newlands' amendment to
make interference with the operation of trains a misdemeanor ,
punishable by fine and imprisonment. Senator Thomas with
drew a similar amendment. The vote on the Newlands
amendment was 14 to 52.
Washington, Sept. 2.- The Adamson eight-hour bill, ac
cepted by labor union officials as providing a satisfactory set
tlement of the demands on which they base their order calling
a nation-wide railroad strike for Monday, was passed without
amendment by the senate tonight and now awaits only Presi
dent Wilson's signature to make it a law. Revocation of the IH
strike order is expected within a few hours. 11
The Brotherhood men have called off the strike.
Washington. Sept 2. At a meeting
of the 13 brotherhood officials in
Washington today it was formally de
cided that cancellation of the strike
order should not be sent out until
President Wilson actually has signed
the etght-hour bill. Another meeting
of the officials will be field tonight
after the senate has acted on the
house bill.
At this time there is a possibility
that the decision might be changed.
Washington, Sept 2. The enact
ment into law of enough of President
Wilson's program to prevent the rail
way strike seemed reassured when
congress reasembled this morning ot
10 o'clock with a program that calls
for a vote not later than 6 o'clock
this evening. It was the belief of ad
ministration leaders that the Adamson
bill as it passed the house late yester
day, approved by President Wilson
and formally accepted by the labor
leaders as meeting their demands,
would eventually be accepted by the
senate, thus obviating a conference to
reconcile differences was possible.
As soon as the perfected bill finally
is passed a special messenger will
carry it to tho summer White House
at Shadow Lawn so the president may
sign it at once and end the menace of
a general paralysis of the country's
transportation lines at 7 o'clock Mon
day morning.
(Continued on page 13.)
oo
RAILROADS CALL
OFF EMBARGOES
Abandon Preparations for War
as Congress Work to Se
cure Peace.
Managers Hold No Meetings,
Believing Adamson Bill
Will Pass Senate.
Chicago, Sept 2. Railroads of the
country abandoned preparations for
war today and rewarded to those for
peace. From all over the country
railroad heads railroad heads an
nounced that embargoes placed on
shipments as a war measure, were re
voked. In Chicago the usual meeting of rail
road presidents was not held, nor did
the executive committee of the General
Manager's association issue the cus
tomary statement It was assumed
that the Adamson bill would pass the
senate tonight that the strike order
would bo recalled, and that trains
would run as usual Mondny morning,
the date set for the walkout
Feeling assured that the strike or
der will bo cancelled, tho following
railroads today revoked their embar
goes: Chicago, Milwaukee and St Paul;
Chicago and Alton; Chicago, Rock Is
land and Pacific; Chicago and North
western; Monon; Chicago and Eastern
Illinois; Chicago Great Western, and
the Illnols Central. The Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy revoked last
night Western railroad heads said
that they xinderstood eastern roads
would tako similar action In the
course of the day.
Omaha, Neb., Sept. 2. At President
Calvin's office today It was announced
that the strike embargo on freight
had been raised by the Union Pacific
and tho Oregon Short Line.
San Francisco, Calif., Sept. 3. The
Southern Paclfio railroad revoked its
strike Embargo today on llvestook
and perishable freight throughout its vk
thousands of miles of lines.
Denver, Colo., Sept. 2. The Colora- jH
do and Southern railroad today re- 'IH
voked its embargo on all classes of ll
freight. . . ,
The Denver .& Rio Grande railroad
today removed. . all restrictions on
freight shipments over its lines, it
was announced at headquarters here. WM
St. Paul, Minn., Sept 2. The Chi- i
cago, St Paul, Minneapolis, and Oma
ho railway today revoked Its embargo
on freight. The northern Pacific and
Great Northern roads were considering
modification or revocation of their em
bargo orders. 11
KH
Topeka, Kansas. Sept. 2. The At
chlson, Topeka and Santa Fe railroad VH
revoked Its freight embargo, accord
Ing to an announcement made hero Vl
today by J. R. Koonts, general freight
agent
Memphis, Tenn., Sept. 2. An
nouncement was made at the Yazoo 11
and Mississippi Valley freight offices
here today that all embargoes placed
on freight in connection with the JM
threatened railroad strike have been H
removed.
Fort Worth, Texas, Sept 2. All re
strlctions were removed from shipping IH
this morning by the Fort Worth and
Denver railroad.
Kansas City, Mo., Sept 2. Official
orders will go out from the general (
offices of the Kansas Southern Rail Ijl
way here today lifting the freight em-
bargo tomorrow. 11
San Francisco Calif., Sept 2. The
Western Pacific railroad lifted today
its strike order embargo on all perish- WM
ables and livestock. IH
Dallas, Teas, Sept 2. Embargoes JH
on all classes of freight were raised IH
bv the following Texas railroads:
'Missouri, Oklahoma and Gulf; St.
Louis, San Francisco and Texas (Fris
co); Houston and Texas Central and
the Gulf, Colorado and Santa Fe, ac-
cording to an announcement from tho iH
several offices.
Los Angeles, Calif., Sept. 2. The )
Los Angeles and Salt Lako railroad 'JH
lifted today its embargo on all per- 'w H
ishable and livestock freight , 3
nn , 41 11
VILLA OUTLAWS i
NEARCHIHUAHUA J
Chihuahua City, Mexico", Sept 2.
Francisco Villa, at the head of his
main band, Is reported In the vicinity jl
of the line of the Mexico Northwestern IH
railway and about 60 miles southwest
of here. It is generally believed ho IH
Is attempting to make his way to IH
caches of ammunition in the Galaena jM
district. 1H
General Apollno Trevlno reported lH
today that he had executed three band-
Its caught robbing a ranch In the La- i
guna-Torroon district and that he had (
seized thirty rifles which they had
hidden.
General Laveaga today reported
from Snntlago Papasqulraro, Durango, j
that his command engaged a small
band of Villa bandits in the Sierra fM
Delcaaco yesterday, killing two and j
capturing twenty norses, seven head j
of cattle and a quantity of arms and ) IH
equipment. The bandits, commanded
by Tiburclo Cuevas, fled Into the hills
where they aro being pursued by the Vm
government troops, who suffered no ( IH
casualties, according to despatches. fH
fl
