OHIO Si ATE
UNIVERSITY
SEP (5 1916
M'l
it
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 20
CINCINNATI, OHIO, SEPTEMBER 2, 1916
One Dollar a Year
if
I.
Jgeaboridvoce
F
y
The Prosecutor's Office Is Rotten
So far as Union Labor is Concerned. Some of His Assistants are Members of Law Firms
Where Their Partners Represent the Strike Breakers, and in Nearly Every Case the
Rats are Dismissed. Dicken's Firm of Catchem and Skinem Not in it. The Only
Solution is to Defeat John V, Campbell for Re-Election.
The County Prosecutor's office has
turned out to be the mecca for those
who desire to crush out union labor in
Cincinnati, and is a menace to those who
hold a union card.
In the painters' case, all the power
of the police and numerous private de
tectives were used in order to build up
a case against the four men arrested
with Sullivan and when everything fail
ed the church was used and Sullivan
committed perjury to save himself and
thereby was the cause of indicting the
others.
The National Metal Trades has a
friend at court, in the person of Mr. B.
R. Tuttle, of Tuttle and Ross, attorneys-at-law.
Mr. Ross is one of Mr. Camp
bell's assistants.
One strikebreaker was arrested and
convicted of discharging a revolver
through the ceiling of a house on Long
worth street. He admitted that he was
a strike-breaking machinist and that he
Frank Hummer,
First Assistant Grand Marshal.
was brought to this city by the Metal
Trades Association. He told a fish
story about haying the gun for the pur
pose of "cleaning" it.
Another strikebreaker was arrested
and convicted of discharging a revolver
' in a crowded hotel while under the in
fluence of liquor. He admitted he was
brought here by the Metal Trades As
sociation and that he was a strike-breaking
machinist.
A young man was arrested for dis
charging a revolver at two other young
men in a girl s room on John street. He
claimed he carried the gun because he
was a strikebreaker at Fay & Egan's
plant.
A chauffeur was arrested for deliber
ately driving his machine upon the side
walk in an endeavor to run down pickets
on duty in the West End. His machine
was full of scabs and strikebreakers at
the time.
Who furnishes these weapons to the
Labor Day Program
Twenty Thousand Trade Unionists Will Parade. Outing
At Chester Park, Where a Program of Sports
Will Be Given.
Phil Fischer,
Grand Marshal.
strikebreakers? Is there any order out
permitting scabs to go armed? The fol
lowing affidavit is very significant. It's
about time conditions were being under
stood by the workingmen.
A man named Dumala was tried be
fore Judge Alexander of the Municipal
Court on the charge of carrying con
cealed weapons. All the testimony was
heard by the Court and then the weapon
was produced. It was a vicious-looking
"slug," consisting of a piece of Babbitt
metal about two inches in circumference
and three inches long, to which was at
tached a steel chain three feet long.
This was iound on Dumala, and he ad
mitted carrying it. Judge Alexander,
after one look at the weapon, held that
it was one of the most dangerous con
trivances that had ever been brought to
his attention, and he bound tile man over
to the Grand Jury. That body iijnorcd
the charge and freed Dumala. Burton
B. Tuttle, of the firm of Tuttle & Ross,
represented Mr. Dumala before Judge
Alexander. Mr. Ross is Assistant Pros
ecuting Attorney, but it is not claimed
that lie had any hand in presenting this
case to the Grand Jury.
But the same man, Simon Ross, As
sistant Prosecutor of Hamilton County,
who presents cases to the grand jury of
Cincinnati, acts as attorney for the
Metal Trades Association in Kentucky,
and actually goes over to Kentucky in
person and defends law-breakers while
employed as prosecutor on this side !
Recently one of his thug clients got the
limit in Kentucky, notwithstanding
Simon pleaded his very best for the law
breaker. Simon is B. B. Tuttle's part
ner, who -represents the Metal Trades
on this side of the river when their im
ported thugs runaafou1 of the law. It's
to his credit that'he don't act for them
on this side of the Ohio.
Reitman, a'non-union butcher, the
(Continued on page 11)
1
Xearly 20,000 persons are expected to
be in the parade, which, it is said, will
be one of the largest labor pageants ever
held in Cincinnati. It will be made up
of seven divisions. Thirty bands will
participate.
Philip Fischer, Business Agent of
Steam Fitters' and Helpers' Union, will
be Grand Marshal of the Labor Day
parade. He was selected last Sunday
morning by the Labor Day Committee.
Frank Hammer, Secretary-Treasurer
ami Business Agent of Teamsters'
Union, was chosen First Assistant Grand
Marshal. James Davis, Business Agent
of the Iron Workers' Union, will be
Second Assistant Grand Marshal.
The Building Trades Council will be
headed by Electrical Workers' Union.
Barbers' Union will lead the Fourth
Division ; -Iron Alolders' Union ATo, A
the Fifth; Boot and Shoe Workers'
Union the Sixth, and Bakers' Union the
Sc. cnth.
Officers of the Central Labor Council
and Building Trades Council in auto
mobiles will lead the parade. The di
visions of the procession will be com
posed of the following:
Division Xo. 1 Machinists, four
unions, and the street car men
Division Xo. 2 Brewery Workers, i
three unions; Motion Picture Operators
and Laundry Workers.
Division Xo. 3 Electrical Workers,
Painters and Paper Hangers, eleven
unions ; Lathers, Sheet Metal Workers,
three unions; Plumbers, Steam Fitters,
Building Laborers, Architectural Iron
Workers, Hod Carriers and Hoisting
Engineers.
Division XTo. 4 Barbers, Teamsters,
and Cigar Makers.
Division Xo. 5 Iron Molders., Farm
ers' Union and Coopers.
Division Xo. G Boot and Shoe Work
ers, four unions; Garment Workers,
Stationery Firemen and the Chester
Park Carnival Company.
Division Xo. 7 Bakers, Axle Forgers,
Pattern Makers, Steel Range Workers,
Leather Workers, Range Workers,
Wreckers and Riggers and Steam En
gineers. Xumerous floats and decorated auto
mobiles will feature the procession.
Many of the crafts will use machines,
among them the women garment work
ers, who intend to have an artistic rep
resentation. Forming at Findlay and Race streets,
the parade will start promptly at 10
a. m., proceeding south on Race street
to Thirteenth, eat to Main, south to
Fourth, west to Plum, north to Ninth,
east to Walnut and north to Twelfth,
where it will disband.
mmmr mmlL -vn
Building Trades Council
Pass Resolutions Condemning the Tactics of the Employees of the Build
ing Trades Union Journal, in Representing to the Public that The
Journal Was the Official Organ of The Building Trades Council.
,1,-M. Smith,
Marshal of Third Division
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order h
President Jos. A. Cullcn.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
Business Agent Hock reported that he
wired the senators from Ohio and the
congressmen from Hamilton County,
the following telegram in protest against
compulsorj arbitration :
"The Building Trades Council of Cin
cinnati and vicinity request that j on
use jour influences to have an eight-
hour daj at present compensation to all
i railroad cmi)loecs.
We emphatically protest against en-'
actment of any law imposing compul
sory arbitration upon American work
men." f
Business Agent Hockifcad his regular
report which was concurred in and or
dered filed.
All trades repotted business good.
The following committee was appoint
ed to take charge of situation "at the
new power plant and call upon Mr. Free
man : Fischer, Hock, Davis and Ilcr
beit. Owing to the fact that the emplojees
of the Building Trades Union Journal
have repeatedly represented that their
paper was the official organ or the repre
sentative of the Building Trades crafts
in Cincinnati, the Council last night pass
ed resolutions condemning such tactics,
and the matter was placed in the hands
of the President and the Trustees, with
instructions to advertise the fact in the
daily papers and take such other steps as
are necessary to stop this practice.
The Building Trades Union Journal
is the personal propertj of Mr. Lon B.
Ames, and no connection with the Build
ing Trades Council or any of its affiliated
bodies.
After the transaction of a lot of rou
tine business the Council adjourned to
meet next Thursday night.
J. 31. Davis
Second Assistant Grand Marshal.
Trades unionists and their families
will go to Chester Park in the afternoon,
when the annual Labor Day Outing will
be held. X'umerous contests are on the
program, the winners of which will be
given prizes. A barrel of flour will be
given to the union man having the larg
est family present. Other prizes are of
fered to the most popular woman trades
unionist, the heaviest trades unionist,
trade unionist having the largest num
ber of labels on his wearing apparel,
and to winners of athletic contests.
IUCHMOXI) G1KLS STIUKK.
Richmond, Va. Girls employed by
the Southern Manufacturing Company
are on :trike. Piece work rates make
it impossible for them to earn a Iiwng
wage.
Conrad Iiehninuii,
Marshal of Division Xo 2
