TH E COLFAX CH RONIC.LE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 19S
A Democratic journal, devoted to Local and Gecneral News, Literature, Science, Hgriculture, 6tc.
VOL. XL COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1916 NUMBER 4
- -.. ' . .. - - -  -'," r .
Official Proceedings of the Police Jury
of Grant Parish.
Colfax, La.. Aug. 31, 1916.
The police jury met pursuant
to aljournment with all the mem
bers present.
The minutes of Aug. 11 were
read and approved.
The following process verbal
of the election in ward number
three, held August 29, 1916, was
prepared, read and signed:
PROCESS VERBAL.
Be it known and remembered
that on this the 31st day of Au
gust, 1916, at 12 o'clock m., in
accordance with an ordinance of
the police jury of Grant parish,
adopted July 25, 1916, notice of
which was issued and published
according to law, the undersign
ed members of the police jury of
Grant parish, being a quorum
thereof met in public session at
the court house in said parish,
and according to law opened all
the ballot boxes used in and
which were received from the
commissio of the election
held on th > th day of August,
1916, in accordance *h said or
dinance, and there proceeded to
count the ballot bot'h in number
and amount for and against, to
determine the proposition to levy
a five mills tax on all the proper
ty in ward number three of Grant
parish, for a period of five years,
beginning with the year 1916 and
ending with the year 1920, for
the purpose of building and main
taining public roads in said ward
er three of said parish.
The r f said count was 68 t
ballots and twe ree t s. r
and seven hundred and six ol
lars ($23,706.00) in favot'of  te
said proposition, and 25 ballots v
and ten thousand seven hundred
and seventy-eight ($10,778.00)
against said proposition; and the b
majority both in number and
amount cast by the property tax q
payers of said ward number three ,
in the said election being in favor
thereof; and at the same time t
and place  did examine and
canvass thr urns as evidenced
by the duplicate tally sheets and
duplicate compiled statements, b
the correctness of both being
sworn to by the commissioners b
according to law, and finding also o0
that said returns indicated a ma
jority both in number and amount
of property in favor of said prop
osition;
Therefore we declared that the o]
result of said election is in favor
of the proposition to levy a five
mills tax on all the property in in
ward number three of Grant par- p;
ish for a period of five years, be- 1E
ginning with the year 1916 and n;
ending with the year 1920, for or
the purpose of building and main- n(
taining public roads in said ward cc
number three of said parish.
And in accordance with law, a te
promulgation of the aforesaid re- m
sult was prepared and the secre- fi'
tary of the police jury was or- in
dered to have a copy of the same pr
signed by the president and pub- be
lished in one issue of the official ar
journal. . fo
And likewise we did order that m
one copy of this process verbal w
be sent to the Secretary of State pr
to be recorded in the archives of at
the State of Louisiana, that one pr
copy be sent to the recorder of of
mortgages to be recorded in the re
mortgage records and that one
copy be kept in the records of ti
the police jury. on
This done and signed in pres- la
ence of H. S. Garlington and L. 19
O. Clinton, competent witnesses tic
and electors, on this the 31st day
of August, 1916, at the court pa
house at Colfax, in the parish of Ar
Grant, by the undersigned mem- sti
hers of the police jury of said th
perish, present and participating 19
ry in the canvass of the said elec
tion.
t W. A. BROWNLEE,
J. M. JONES.
1
O. C. WATSON,
C. W. CALHOUN,
G. C. PURVIS,
J. J. DEWITT.
r W. R. BUFFINGTON,
Attest:
H. S. GARLINGTON.
. L. O. CLINTON.
On motion the following ordi
nance was adopted:
ORDINANCE OF PROMULGATION.
Whereas on the 29th day of Au
gust, 1916, an election was held
in ward number three of Grant
d parish to determine the proposi
tion to levy a five mills tax on all
the property in said ward number
three for a period of five years,
beginning with the year 1916 and
ending with the year 1920, for
the purpose of building and main
taining public roads in said ward
number three, and
Whereas said election was held
and the returns thereof were
canvassed by the police jury ac
cording to law and the notice
given on the 25th day of July,
1916, and the result of said elec
tion was declared to be that the
majority in number and amount
of the tax payers of the said ward
voted in favor of said proposi
tion; now, therefore,
Section One
Be it ordained by the police ju
ry of the parish of Grant, La., in
lawful session convened, That
the proposition to levy a five mills
tax on all the property in ward
number three of Grant parish for
a period of five years, beginning
with the year 1916 and ending
with the year 1920, for the pur
pose of building and maintaining
public roads in said ward num
ber three carried, and said tax as
proposed is authorized and re
quired by law to be levied, as
sessed and collected on all the
property of said ward number
three of Grant parish.
Section Two
Be it further ordained, That
the result of said election shall
be promulgated by the president a
and secretary of the police jury
by publication in one issue of the
official journal, said notice of
promulgation to be signed by the
president and the secretary.
Oin motion the following ordi- g
nance was adopted:
ORDINANCE LEVYING FIVE MILLS
TAX IN WARD THREE.
Whereas an election was held 0
in ward number three of. Grant
parish on the 29th day of August,
1916, in accordance with an ordi- I
nance of the police jury enacted
on the 25th day of July, 1916, and n
notice of the same published ac
cording to law, and
Whereas the question submit
ted at said election was to deter
mine the proposition to levy a
five mills tax on all the property
in said ward number three of said '
parish for a period of five years, Ia
beginning with the year 1916 ,
and ending with the year 1920,
for the purpose of building and
maintaining public roads in said r
ward number three, which said J
proposition was lawfully carried a'
at said election, as shown by the "
process verbal of the police jury l
of this date of the canvass of the
returns, and
Whereas the result of said elec
tion has been duly promulgated
on the said date as required by
law ar\l section 19 of act 256 of
1910, and no contest of said elec
tion has been filed, and
Whereas the police jury of said
parish is recognized by law and
Articles 281 and 292 of the Con- "
stitution of 1912 and Act 256 of
the session of the Legislature of o
1910 and amendments to be the
c- governing authority through
whom such tax shall be levied on
the property of said ward num
ber three in said parish; now,
therefore,
Section One
Be it ordained by the police ju
ry of Grant parish in lawful ses
sion convened, That a five mills
tax on all the property in ward
number three of said parish of
Grant, for a period of five years,
i- beginning with the year 1916 and
ending with the year 1920, for
the purpose of building and main
3 taining public roads in said ward
d number three, be and the same is
it hereby levied and the same shall
i- be annually extended on the as
II sessment rolls of said parish in
!r the same manner that other taxes
are extended, and collected by
d the tax collector in the same man
ir ner that other taxes are collect
- ed.
d Section Two -
Be it further ordained, That
d the proceeds of said tax, when
e collected, shall be deposited in
, the parish treasury and there
e shall be and remain a trust fund
to be used for the purpose only
that the same was levied and col
e lected for, to-wit: For the pur
t pose of building and maintaining
i public roads in said ward number
- three of said parish of Grant.
Continued next week.
Discovers Way to Destroy Boll Weevils.
Joseph Reaux, a farmer living
at Pan Perdu, Vermillion parish,
has an effective way of destroy
ing the boll weevil. During the
month of June he places on the
turn rows in the center of his
cotton patch, several large tubs
half full of water. Across the
tubs he puts a six-inch board and
on this he places a lantern with a
good light. He does this during
'the dark of the moon" and the
weevil and other insects are at
tracted in large numbers to the
bright light, strike the sides of a
the lantern, fall into the water t
and are drowned. He repeats
this for several nights, during
the dark nights of each month,
and as a result claims that his
field is singularly exempt from "
all appearances of the boll weevil.
Fruit is Healthful.
Fruits are not only wholesotle as
food but often act beneficially as med
Icines. The acids of some fruits are s
good destroyers of disease germs and L
tend to restore as well as keep the 14
organs of secretion and the whole di- P
gestive tract in a healthy condition. $'
Official Proceedings of the Grant Par- i
ish School Board. P
Colfax, La., July 22, 1916. el
Pursuant to adjournment on July 8, s<
1916, the board of school directors of "
the parish of Grant, La., met in legal id
session to consider the question of fi
nancing the schools of the parish. ii
The board was called to order by the
president with J. H. McNeely, - E. A. e
Wall, T. C. Lincecum, N. S. Roberts d
and M. E. Jackson present; A. W. to
Stewart and I. J. Rhinehart absent. in
A quorum being present the board
proceeded to transact the following
business:
The fotllwilig r-,luti) I un offered by N.S. V
WIhiereai. tbrh Ilr, h ten a request. made or f
thi. s'hol Ioa,Ir bIy conle of the tax-pi,.rs o (i1
ward tio. a.Lkyiii that a aiy-lal lie-tiin te or- e,
deardl i ill,l Ifor the s.aid ,tr,u, at whlkh ahall
i- ,biimni t ti-si folh- winip liroli.iattiii, to-alt:
I- I.LO sIrlJI N.
T, Ievyr a tax if ivi- lfinll,, for five r ears on all si
Irioperty II1 n ard t w,. .iralt parish, Loollsians.
alid that fractional part of school district No. 5
located partly in ward 3, subject to taxation. Lh
annuall.. for a period of Iveyears. thebfonds H
thu. derived t, I,- alpportlioned aecordlng to 1i
the auwineneint valnati.ins of thu original
-hi,.l disitrt uli-dlivirlolue t, sllrh original
sihil, di trict eub-diviraion f,ir ue In the origl- be
ial an'hbol distritct ,ui-divi* luans tf ,aid ward an
alid that frac.tlial part ofI 5 bhuil ditrlet No. I6
hIwat~l ill ward l. said flinde to lI uaed for gen
eral dnucationIal pulrliea.
H lieri-aL. Ill thl -ptLiiiiiin of thiu btiird uiach a
Ie- ii r.·.,I-td lR v the I t uril, ir f , i. hi,il Itlrve
tlrel i f tl l 'arih ,if lrillt. L.ullsiaua, as hfal- At
laws: tP
Setio, n i. That a ll.ilil i-'li lti,,n .ie and Lhe
a;imI i henhlry ,rl.rl-r* i tl l l, hell ln wardl two l i
;iii l tht Iraiti n I Hart Ir f m-hi,il diettrl cl N,i. S1 4
ii-att in wa tl thrne. irant liariush. la., a.. ri
it llilch time ll hall bie aubliitted the lollowing
propliiition, t,-a it thi
PiLoI'OOITITlN to
to levy a lspeial taix if Ste mills un the dollar
in all iprulerty in wardl two and that frartlional pr
part of shool distrirt No. 6 hscled in ward 3.
;~ril Gat parish. louisiana, subject to State taa
tion. annually. for a period of five years. begin
)* uing with the year I016 and ending with the year
i 9t20. both years inclusive, thie funds thus derived
to be appo-rtiaoned am-rording to the ameasnmentt
o, of the original w'hoom distri-t sulb-divisons to
much original c.lhol o distrl.t sub-divisionlm for
uas In the original school district sub-divililon
of said ward and that fractional part of shomol
m district No. a hlmated in ward three, said funds
to tm usedIl for gelneral educational purposem.
S' Section 2. That the secretary of this board be
Is and he is hereby instructedm to hare prepared for
use at said Pniethin a nf llellienl t nuinlter of ballots
oin eamh of whi ch shall be printed the pmroplitmon
i mentiound in Section I of this resolution, and in
the following foriim:
i PROPOSITION.
Id Proposition to levy a sperial tax of
five mills on t.*i dollar on all proier- e
ty in ward two and that fractional
mart of mhooli district No. 6 located
tm ward three. Grant parisih. La..sub
p jt taLtate taxatiotn. amInnually. for
a i{urid of five years. bieginning with
U the year 1l16 and ending with the"
year 1920, both years inclusive. the
S fands thus derived to he apportioned
11 accordig to the asesments of the
original r chloo; district aub-division.
to sucmh originlal school disi i-t sub
div simon for use In theorigi al choo:
distnct sub-divisions of saa. ward
B twoand that fractional part of school
district No. 6 located in ward three,
said fundmi to t~e used for general edu
catiomnal purpoies.
Taxable valu ttt),n ...... ......................
1- Signatur of voter..... ............ ... .............
NOTICE TO VOTER.
To vote in favor of the proposition nsbmitted
on this ballot place a (X) mark in the square af
ter the word Yes, and to vote against the propo
sition place a similar mark in the equare after
t the word No.
n And the mnsretary of this board be and ihe is
hereby instructed to have prepared for use at
the saidl election all the necessary ballot boxes,
e tally sheets, lists of voters, assessed valuation
d f property and compiled statements of voters
U i nummier and amlouint.
y Sctiou 3. That the voters of that fractlional
part of srhool dlOtrlct No. I located In ward 3,
shall have the right to participate and vote at
the Bruce precinct In the said ward 2.
Sectiou 4. That the polling plaeeseor the said
election shall be at Pollock. Bruce, uimsm and
r Bagdad precincts, and the following shall serve
as com minlsaloners and clerks of election:
Pollhck-O. J. Hattaway, W. I'. oaynes and
W. H. Slugley commissioners; Fulton O'ulus.,
clerk.
IBruce-Overton Thompson, R. B. Roach and
Elisha Lewis.comnmissioners; O.L. Nugent.,lerk.
SXiltmmn--W. E. Chandler, John Curry and Ben
Hiarlington, commissioners; J. H. ('oulson, clerk.
Bagdlad-lM.C. Buokner, John M. Anthony and
J. I,. Gray, rumiminmdoer.; Il. E. Hadlnot, clerk.
The said election shall be held under the State
law applica-hle thereto.
Sectimon 5. That the president of this boardmi I
hereby inmtructemd to give mnot1ce mof the special
election herein ordered by his proclamation, to
t ie uublished a,·-ording to law. and im the said
pruclmnation lie shall announce that at II o'
clck oni Sept. :. 1916, this board will meet at
their offile at the court house at I'olfax. Grant
parish. La.. to olmen the ballot lax. examine
andl count the ballots in numbter and amount,
examinelll and canvarLR the returus, and declare
the result of the election.
The motion "nade by N. S. Roberts for the I
adoption mof the aborve resolution was seconded c
by T. i(. .ilnemuni. and being plaied before the
board by the chair it was unanimously adopted.
all of the membuter present voting in the amrma
tive, and the chair announaced It carried. a
J. H. McNEKLY,.
J. N. WARNER. President.
Serretary.
The following ordinance was introduced, t
and being duly seoonded, it was unani- t
mously adopted; to wit:
AN ORDINANCE r
Formitng Christian Hope District N. 16 P
out of the present Christian Hope Dis
trict No. 16 and Tison District No. 17i,
which said districts compose Ward
Five. and to distribute all funds de
rived from special school tax elections S
?in said consolidated districts according L
to the territory embraced in the boun
daries of Ward 5, Grant Parish. La.. a
Be it ordained by the Parish Board of h
School Directors of the Parish of Grant. P
La., in legal session convened.
Section One. That school districts Nos. a
16 and 17. all situated In Ward 5. Grant P
P,arishl. I.. be and they are hereby con
solidated into one district to be known tl
as Christian Hope District No. 16, which tm
said district embrales the territory with- i
in the boundary lines of Ward 5, Grant
Parish, Louisiana. p
Section Two. Be it further ordained,
etc. That all funds derived from special
school tax elections which may hereafter t(
we held and ordered in the said consol- el
idated districts Nos. 16 and 17 shall be et
apportioned acording to the assessment of Si
said Ward Five, constituting Christian rm
Hope District No. 16. Grant Parish, La.
Section Thiree. e it further ordained,
etc. That all ordinances or parts of or- ti
dinances contrary to or in conflict with of
this ordinance are hereby repealed, and tn
that tIlis ordinance shall go into effect 1:
immediately upon Its pasage. pm
Itnanimousl3 adopted this 22d day of w
July. 1916. w
The following resolution was offered by lt
T. C. Lincecumn and second ed by E. A Pt
Wall. who moved its adoption. TI
Whereas, there has been a request i
made by the property tax payers of
Christian Ilope District No. J6. constitut
ing consolidated districts 14 and 17 and m
etmbracing the territory comprising Ward l;
(. ;rant Parish, La., eligible to vote at v
such election, asking that a special eler- ti
timsn hi ordered in anid for said Christian
Hope Distrlct No. 16. at whi.hl shall be hi
submnittt-l thie following proposition, to fo
wit: n
PROPOSITION of
To levy a special tax of five mills on as
the dollar on all property In Christian :s
Hope School District No. 16, Grant Par
Ish. La.. subject to state taxation, annu- to
aIlly. for a period of five years for gen- C
eral educational purposes. s
And whereas, in the opinion of this ed
board such special election is necessary cli
and advisable.
He it resolved by the Parish Board of ur
School Directors of the Parish of Grant, th
La.. as fllows:
Section One. That a special election be th
and the same is hereby ordered to be at
held in Christian Hope District No. I1. th
m;rant Parish. L_. on tk
TI'ESDAY. SEPTEMBER 5. 1916. am
At which shall be submitted the following ne
proposition, to wit:
PROPOSITION th
To levy a special tax of five mills on I
the dollmr on all property in Christian th
iopte rDistrict No. 16. Grant Pariah. La.. h
subject to state taxation, annually, for a
period of five years for general educa- re
tional purposes.
Section Two. That the Secretary of ix
this board be and he Is hereby Instructed h
to have prepared for use at said special th
election a sufficient number of ballots.
on each of which shall be printed the
proposition, mentioned in sectlor one of J.
this resolution, and In the following formn.
n- P'ROPOSITIoN
In Proposition to levy a special Y
ar tax of five mills on the dollar
l on all prop'rty subJect to state
taxation in Christian Hope J)i'
st+ trmt No. 16, (:rant I'arish. Lou
to isi.ilna. for a twrilod of five*
Syears, beginning with the yer NO
1,16 and ending with tihe ear
1. 20, both years inclusive. f "r
.l general educational purposes.
s Taxable valuation .
Signature of voter ..
be NO'ITI'lI TO VOTERS
or To vite in fivor of the proposition sub
.t tmltted on this ballot place a (X) mark n
nthe square after the wold "Yes", and
vote against it place a similar mark in
i the sq"iu.are. after the word "No".
And the iecretary be and he is hereby
instructed to have prepared for use at
said election all the necessary ballot
laxes, tally sheets, lists of voters as
sessed valuation of property, and co
piled statement of voters in number and
amount.
Section Three. That tihe polling pla
for the said special election shall be at
Tully's Store, in (Ge.rgetown, La.. and
It. Westerry., P. M. Ussery and . D.
McCon:lthy are appointed commissones
and J. L. Homes clerk of election to serve
thereat.
The said election shall be conducted
under the laws of the state apulicable
thereto.
Section Four. The President of this
board is hereby Instructed to give notice
of the special election herein ordered, by
his proclamrnation to be published accord
ing to law; and in the said proclamation
he shall announce that at eleven o'clock
a. mn. on September 6, 1916. this board
Swill meet at the court house at Colfax.
Grant Parish. La. and in open session
proceed to open the ballot box, examine
and count the ballots in number and
r amount, examine and canvass the returns.
and declare the result of the election.
I The above resolution was adopted
unanimously, all members of the board
it hereinhefore named voting in favo
s, thereof.
J. H. McNlElI,.
SJ. N. WARNER, President.
Secretary.
Tihe following ordinance was introduced.
t and being duly seconded, it was unan
t mously adopted; to wit:
AN ORDINANCE
d To group districts Nos. 12 and 26. all sit
d uated in Grant Parish. La., and t
distribute all funds derived from specal
school tax elections in said grouped
districts according to the original ter
Sritorial subdivisions heretofore existing
in accordance with the assessment o
said district.
Be it ordained by the Parish Board of
School Directors of the Parish of Grant.
La.. In legal session convened:
Section One. That school districts Nos.
12 and 26. all situated in Grant Parish.
la., be and they are hereby grouped int I
t one district to be known as School Dis
trict 12-26.
Section Two. le it further ordained
etc. That all funds derived from speci
school tax elections which may hereafte
he held and ordered in the said grouped I
I district shall be apportioned according t
the assessments of the original territorial
I subdivisions to such original subdivision
for use in the original subdivision.
Section Three. Be it further ordained,
S'tc, That all ordinances or parts of or
fimances contrary to or in conflict with
this ordinar:ce are hereby repealed, and
that this ordinance shall go into effect
Immediately upon its passage.
tUnanimously adopted.
The following resolution was offered b
E. A. Wall and seconded by N. S. Rob
I erts, whp moved its adoption.
Whereas, there has been a request C
made by the property tax payers ol p
school districts Nos. 12 and 26. constitut- a
ing grouped district 12-26, eligible to vote a
at such election, asking that a specal
election be ordered in and for said dis
trict, at which shall be submitted the fol- i
lowing proposition. to wit: h
To levy a special tax of five mill-on ti
the dollar on all property in School Dis
trict No. 12-26, Grant Parish. La.. sub
ject to state taxation, annually, for a p
riod of five years for general educational
purposes.
And whereas, in the opinion of this
board such special election is necessary
and advisable,
Be it resolved by the Parish Board of
School D)irectors of the Parish of Grant b
La., as follows: t
Section One. That a special election e N
and tihe same is hereby ordered to be
held in School District No. 12-26. Grant a
Parish. La., on
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1916, a
at which shall be submitted the following bi
proposition, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills o
the dollUAr on all property in School Di- D
trict No 12-26. Grant Parish, La., sb- S
ject to state taxation, annually, for a p
riod of five years for general educational
purposes. t
Section Two. That the Secretary of e
this board be and he is hereby instructed
to have prepared for use at said special
election a sufficient number of mballots, on o
each of which shall be printed time propo
sition mentioned in section one of this
resolution, and in the following form: b
PROPOSITION vi
Proposition to levy a special YEs
tax of five mills on the dollar I
on all property Subjec-t to state I
taxation in School District No.
12-24. G;rant Parish. Ima.. f,,r a as
period of five years. beginning I i,
with the year 1916 and ending I
with the year 1920. both years
inclusive, for general educational W
purposes.
Taxable valuatioa..........................,
Rignature of woter ... .... .... .....
NOTICE TO VOTERIS
To vote in favor of the proposition s
mitted on this ballot place a (X) mar
the square after the word "Yes", am
vote against it place a similar mari
the square after the word "No".
And the Secretary of this board be
he is--hereby instructed to have prep d
for use at said special election all
necessary ballot boxes, tally sheets, I
of voters, assessed valuation of prope
and compiled statement of voters in nu
:er and amount.
Section Three. That the poling ie
for the said special election shall be
Creed precinct, and J. H. Fatreloth, n
eat Newton and - -- Creed are aplp
ed commissioners and W. O. Hutchn h
clerk of election to serve thereat.
The said election shall be c ondut
under the laws of the state applib
thereto.
Section Four. The President
this board is hereby instructed
give notice of the . special e
thior herein ordered, by his procn
tion to be published according to
and in the said proclamation he shall
nounce that at eleven o'clock a. i..
September 6, 1916. this board will me
the court house at Cotfax, Grant Par
IA., and in open session proceed to o
the ballot box. examine and count
ballots in number and amount, exam
and canvass the returns and declare
result of the election.
The above resolution was adopted un
Imously, all the members of the bo
hereinthfore named voting in fa
thereof.
J. H. McNEELY.
President
J. N. WARNER,
DRY PRONG MAINTENANCE TAX.
The following resolution was offered
'*y N. S. Roberts and seconded by E. A.
Wall who moved its adoption.
Whereas. there has been a request
nade by the property tax payers of Dry
Prong School District No. 11, Grant Par
ish. Is.. eligible to vote at such electiop,
taking that a special election be ordered
n and for said Dry Prong School District
- No. II. at ihich shall be submitted the
following proposition, to wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of ten mills on
the dollar on all property in Dry Prong
in School Dietrict No. II. Grant Parish. La..
to aubject to state taxation, annually, for a
In period of two years for the purpose of
utpporting and maintaining the schools
located in the said Dry Prong School
District No. I1.
And whereas. In the opinion of this
board such special election is necessary
and advisable.
d Be it resolved by the Parish Board o
School Directors of the Parish of Grant,
La.. as follows:
Section One. That a special election be
mad the same is hereby ordered to be held
in Dry Prong School District No. I1,
Grant Parish, La.. on
TItESDAY, HEPTEMBER 5. 191t.
at which shall be submitted the followlng
d proposition, to wit:
le PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of ten mills on
is the dollar on all property in Dry Prong
School District No. II, Grant Parish, La.,
' subject to state taxation, annually, for a
Speriod of two years for the purpose of
supporting and maintaining the schools
n located in the said Dry Prong School Dis
ktrict No. II.
Section Two. That the secretary of
. this board be and he is hereby Instructed
to have prepared for use at said special
election a sufficient number of ballots,
on each of which shall be printed the
proposition mentioned In section one of
d this resolution, and In the follow form:
d PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of ten YES
mills on the dollar on all prop
erty in Dry Prong School Dis
trict No. II, Grant Parish, La.,
subject to state taxation, annu
ally for a period of two years,
beginning with the year 1911
i. and ending with the year 1218. NO
Loth years Inclusive, for the
purpese of supporting and main
taining the schools located in
the said Dry Prong School Dis
trict No. 11.
Taxable valation ........ ..............................
Signatuareoft Voter................................
NOTICE TO VOTERS
To vote In favor of the proposition sub
mitted on this ballot place a (X) mark bl
the square after the word "Yes", and to
f vote against it place a similar mark In
the square after the word "No".
And the Secretary be and he Is hereby
instructed to have prepared for use at
said special Slection all the necessary bal
lot boxes, tally sheets, lists of voters, as
sensed valuation of property, and com
piled statement of voters in number and
Amount.
I Section Three. That the polling place
for the said special election shall be at
I Dry Prong precinct, in the said Dry
Prong School District No. II, and T. J.
I Walker, I. B. Sermons and Mike Henagan
Sare appointed commissioners and J. W,
Smith clerk of election to serve thereat.
The said election shall be conducted
under the laws of the state applicable a
thereto.
Beetion Pour. The President of this
board is hereby instructed to give notice
,f the special election herein ordered, by
r's proclamation to the published accord
ing to law; and in the said proclamation
he shall announce that at eleven o'clock
a. m., on September ,. 19)1, this board
will meet. at the court house at Celfax
Grant Parish. La., and in open aseesln
proceed to open the Iallot box,. examine
and count the ballots in number sad
amount, examine and canvass the return,
and declare the result of the election.
The above resolution was adopted uaan
Imously, all the members of the board
hereinhefore named votintag favpr
thereof.
J. H. McNEELY.
President.
J. N. WARNER.
Secretary.
DRY PRONG BOND ISUE.L
ORDINANCE No. 11.
N. S. Roberts offered Ordinance No. 11
who moved its adoption, duly secoeded
by E. A. Wall, and it being placed befre
the board by the President, J. H. Mo
Neely, E. A. Wall. T. C. IAncecum, N. 8.
Roberts and M. E. Jackson voted, for the
adoption of the ordinance, ays none.
whereupon the chair announced the
adoption of the ordinance by the beard
by unanimous vote.
Whereas it is necessary that a new
school building be built and equipped at
Dry Prong. Louisiana, In Dry Prong
School District No. 11. and
Whereas, the citizens and property tax
payers of the said Dry Prong School Dis
trict No. 11 have requested that the said
school buildingl be built and equipped, and
a site be urchased, If necessary, anad
Whereas, it is necessary and desirabil
for funds to be raised for said purpose,
and.
Whereas. It is the voluntary will of tidp
body to call the election hereinafter psI
vided for, and
Whereas, Article No. 281 of the ConN-*
tution of 1898 and 1913, and Act No.
of the Legislature of 191, as amended 1
Act 218 of 1912, declare the school boa
of the parish to be the governong satht *
ity through which said Dry ung Schlm
District No. II may Incur debt ad
issue negotiable bonds for such perpeep,
when so authorixed at an election to be
held in the said Dry Prong School Dip
trict No. 11. and
Whereas, the assessed valuation of the
said Dry Pronag School District No. ) I
amounts to approximately one hundebd
and sixty thousand (StW.,0.W) dollsh,
and-the proposed indebtedness does nqt
exceed the constitutionl Slimit of ten pet
cenl of the assessed valuation, and
Whereasn the special tax necessary fa
be annually levied to extlnguish the'0 p
posed Indebtedness will appDDrimostb
elght (8) mills, which will net exced tl
constitutional limit per annum on the do-*
lar of tllweasemed valmatIon of the psup*
erty of said Dry Pron School Distret
No. 11, now, therefore;
Section One. Re It ordained the
Board of School Directors of the P
of Grant. Louslaana. nla legal sesaesi coa,
vened. 'That an electico shall be and in
hereby called to be held In the said Dry
Prong District No. 11, i the Parish et
Grant. Louisiam,. on
TUESDAY, 8EP'TEMBER 5, t191,.
at which election the majority of the
property tax payers of the said
Prong School District No. 11, a nullsbr
and amount. eligible to vote and vdog,
shall determine the
PROPOSITION
Proposition to Incur debt ad isstse
bonds of the said Dry Prong School Dis
trict No. II. In the Parish of Gant. La.,
to the amount of ten thuomaad (t*.S.W)
dollars, to run for a period of appox
Imately ten (16) years, bearing Iaterest
at the rate of five per cent per aatna,
payable anuarlly, the funds thus derived
to be used for the
PURPOSPE
Purpose of bulldlag and equlppn a
school building at Dry Prong, Id ,
in the msaid Dry Prolg BeShool Distrst
No. 11.
S8ection Two. D It Ifrther ordaied.
Cosaidcee an halpae
