m
The
Joseph Observer
$?' -
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 191G
NUMBER 48
-
9
VOLUME IX.
St.
W"i V
(-,
v
.
I
B
k
I
1
H
i
U
SLUG SLAVIN SEES
NOISE PENROSE
That Chicago "Expert" Says
the Senator Is Envious of
Wilson Appointments
SIMPLY BECAUSE THEY
ARE DEMOCRATS
,
He Says That Noise Has Made the I
Important Discovery That When '
President Wilson Has an Appoint,
ment to Give Out In Some Way He made em?
Manages to Give It to a Democrat1 '"Mr. President, he sas, 'I've been
Instead of Calling on Teddy and lut wise to a lot of Jobs you've been
Uncle Joe and BUI Barnes to Make handln' out ever since you've had th'
the Selection for Him. chance,' he says. 'It's true thnt I voted
for them, myself, an' they're good ap-
, polntmenls,' he sajo, 'but I never,
Slug Slavln Is a citizen or Chicago knew "" now' ho Kas- ',llat "
who sees things as they are, especial-' Publicans that worked their lamdest
lv in tho political fild, and he haS1a6alnst wilson nad 1,ee 1,oldin down
4n....... .I-....1 . i.i. ki i... 'these lobs.' An' there yuh are.
ment over some discourses that he
hno m.n,t. The latest trnnhle rnnw '
for him when he unearthed the hostll-1 Hal"nger? Where's Charlie Schwab's
Ity of Noise Penrose to President Wll-' name? Wnv doesn't ''resident Wilson
son and they caused him to gasp: show th' name of Uncle Joe Cannon as
"Well, If he Isn't a man eating shark ambassador to Home? Does anybody
I'll eat my hat," he exploded, "th' last' nuestlon Uncle Joe's been contribut
man I'd ever expected to see breakin' ' ' t th campaigns for a helluva long
Into th' game Is right here In our,tInlo? Mr- Resident, nobody
midst,' an Its no less than our old01-'3- Tll?n why don't he get one of
college chump, Noise Penrose, of these here appointments?'
Sleepvllle, Pa. Remember Noise, '"I' tell you why. Mr. President
dontcher? Remember when he foot-1 It's because Woodrow Wilson don't
pad for Matt Quay in th' days when ' want Uncle Joe an' these other men.
Gil Ball was runnln th' shoot-an'-shoot That's th' rehson an' It's th' only rea
down on Lombard street? Well, its i sn- An' what does he do instead?
th' same old Noise. Gives these here jobs to Democrats.
"Noise Is now a champeen defender It beats hell, Mr. President, Is all I've
of th pure an' uplift an whatever th' i Rotta say.'
Pennsy railroad gang sends him to! "It's sure rotten rough on Noise,
run errands for. He's, in politics for awrlght, bo. But he didn't name all
his health an' he's lookln' fine, thank ' th' guys that got Jobs, an' not half of
you. Whenever Chollie Hughes hears ' '-hern that didn't get any Jobs. What
that Noise is sayin' that he's for i Noise ought to do is to show how
Hughes, Chollie begins to feel about , much money a lot of these has-been
to see If his hands Is In his own pock- ambassadors spent tryln' to elect Taft
ets, an' whether he's bein separated I an' Roosevelt."
from anything besides his reputation.
Noise Is close, believe me, bo.
Some
class!
"An" what d'ye think Is chewin'
Noise Penrose? Why -he's Just found
out that President Wilson has been ap
pointin' some Democrats to jobs!
What d'ye know about that? Kin yuh
beat it? Noise has certainly taken on done well to renominate without op
weight an' he's been runnin' under position their junior senator, James
wraps for sometime In politics, ever need. The United States senate is
since his friend Oliver got caught entitled to the ablest, most patriotic
glv'n Guv'nor Bumbraugh a thousand and best of American citizenship,
dollars to run for Guv'nor with, an' neeo of Missouri, has brought to his
then went about like a little sissyboy, position in the senate a class of char
an' told everybody. So, anyhow, Noise acter, courage and Independence that
has been sore ever since, an' now he's Is worthy the best traditions of that
Konua take his spite out on President great deliberative body.
Wilson. An' what d'ye guess what For one thing, Senator Heed Is a
fr? fighter. His record In Missouri be
Envies Lucky Democrats Iore ne went t0 tne genate proved this.
"Cause Wilson's been giving Jobs to,
Democrats! Noise Is cussln' himself again that he has no personal friends in good shape will have no furth
sick because somebody told him that to favor when the great Interests of er use for your services during
two or three years ago some Repub-Jthe public are at stake. the strike period and as a conse-
llcans that'd been holding down Jobs Missouri has become a politically quence the laborers and clerks
so long they forgot what the'd been doubtful state. The Democratic party and the workers will be laid off
hired to do, had been canned, an
good Democrats who weren't asleep
had been put on th payroll In their
places. Sore? Sure, Noise Is sore.
I'h' very Idea of flrln' a Republican an'
glvln' a wideawake Demo6rat a job
because th' people had voted to give
th Democrats a chance, Is more than
he can stand. He's slck(l tell you
Noise is sick.
"Noise has discovered that some
fellows that wanted to see th; Demo-
crats win In 1912, had chipped In to
th' pot to help to conduct th' cam
paign, an when th' president had jobs
to give out, Noise has discovered that
th' president instead of callln' up
Noise, an' Teddy Roosenfelt, an' Bill
Barnes, dam'd If th president didn't
call In his own friends an' decide to
give th prizes around to th very fel
lows that helped elect blm! Strang,
eat thing ever known in politics.
No Jbs In Pennsylvania
"Noise never heard of such a thing
In Pennsylvania politics, for every
time ho gets elected an there's any
jobs to give out, all he knpws about
ivho gets them Is when th' Pennsy
railroad push lets him know who he Is
to appoint. Noise never before heard
of a man rememberln' his friend. Well,
jtnat's Noise's own fault. He never
am ininK any more oi anyoouy eise
than be does of himself, an' he's some
heft in bulk, so when he's sore there's
lots of him to be sore. It don't make
any difference whether he covers his
brains with bis hat or whether he sits
on them, he knows a political Job aa
good as any man, and when he sees
Democrats gcttln' appointed to office
you betcher life he gets sore.
"Noise has gone an' found a fellei
that was nlookln' for hlmr to give out
a list of names of Demoernts what
hail helped eject Wlleon, all Noise In j
yellln' that they've been appointed to
cabinet place, an' some has been st-nt
abroad, an a couple of 'era has been
appointed postmaster, an' the coun-t
trv'H coin to hell so fast he can't see ,
th' way on account of th' dust, nn' If
this don't prove that Wilson's runnln'
the country nothln does. Noise could
of made a bigger holler than he did If
he'd a-got wise to these appointments
a long time ago, but as it is, he woke
up pretty quick conslderln" his
, roundtugs.
I Can't You See Him?
sur-i
"Can't ye see him standln' up there
in th' U. S. senate an' bawlin' out
himself an all th other senators that
helped him approve all these here an-
polntmcnU. as fast as th president
" u '" B"'' "'"-"-' l" """
ho i'B- 'f niy esteemed friend Dick
A SOUTHERN OPINION
The New Orleans Item Heartily Com.
mends the Course of Senator
James A. Reed
The Democrats' of Missouri have
in, the senate he has shown time and.
'controls there only. on the strength of
Its national and local issues and per
sonalities. Barring unforseen circum
stances, the state should return Sena
tor Reed on his record. He is one of
a group of senators whose services
are of value to party and nation alike,
rfls reCord entitles him to the sup
port of that Increasing body in the
national electorate that acts and votes
independently and seeks to serve the
j country by the selection of the best
men ofrering for office regardless of
party affiliation. James Reed has
made enemies in his public career. No
influence has been too strong for him
to tackle. And for his merits as well
as for tho enemies he has made he Is
highly esteemed In the several sec
tions of the republic. New Orleans
Item, August 19.
TOWNSEND, WYATT & WALL
AND ASIA
Perhaps you do not realize that St.
Joseph's commercial Interests extend
farther than the confines of the neigh
boring states. If such is your idea, it
Is well for you to be undeceived. On
Tuesday tho Townsend, Wyatt &.
Wall people made a shipment of goods
to Asia and It waB St. Joseph made
goods at that. The shipment was con
signed to Miss Sadie Buckland at
Chenyu, Corea, Asia.
WHAT'S THE MATTER, EDITOR
GOODEN7
"Men's hips are always located In
the same place. But one girl's hips
will -be located under her shoulders
i,nd another girl's hips will be located
Just above her knees." Parnell Sentinel.
WHAT A STRIKE MEANS
Have You Figured What It
Would Mean for St. Joseph
and It3 People?
With the railway labor lead-
crs announcing, that unless the
railroad mon's terms are torn
plied with or some other method
of settlement arrived at. the
greatest railway strike In the
history of the country will begin
ai i o ciock a weeK from .Monday
morning, have you, .Mr. Citizen
of St. Joseph, figured out Just
how It will affect ou?
Ten chances to a hundred jou
havo not, and If you nre care-
lessly inclined you probably have
dismissed the matter with a brief
thought and let It go at that-
but
Think of this feature: U th
strike is declared, in a few days
ou will see an advance In the
price of household necessities.
A few days later you will prob- '
ably ualk to your work provid
lng your work continues if you
are a laboring man for the
street railway will discontinue
running cars for it will have no
coal with which to generate
power to run the cars.
You will have no more electric
light at your home for the same
reason.
You will have no more cit
water at your home, for the
water company will not have coal
with which to run the big en
glnes which pump it for you.
You may have some gas. for
the natural gas now supplied
here does not need coal to force
it to you.
You will have no more fresh
meat, for after the short supply of
coal which the packing houses
now have Is exhausted they can
kill no more stock for need of
that article and therefore must
close down.
The railroads can bring them
no more stock for slaughter, for
there will be no freight trains $
running. "
The farmer can ship you no
more wheat, coin or produce, for
no trains will be operated to
bring the stuff here. o
The wholesale dealers of St.
Joseph can ship no more goods to
the country, neither can they get
more goods to take the place' of
those already sold.
When the present limited sup
pi) of coffee, tea. sugar, rice and
other groceries Is Exhausted,
there will be no more, for the
merchant will be unable to get
these commodities.
And when this condition
comes, the wholesale houses, the
street car lines, the packing
houses, the big manufacturing
plants . and every institution
which now helps to make pros
perity for you and keep you em-
plojed, and give you work and
allow you to support your family
and then where will the income
and the family subsistence come
from? This Is but a thousandth
part of Vv'hat a big strike means
or stands for. Its evils are so
many that they cannot be enum
erated. And has one out of a thousand
of you thought that this is Just
the disaster that President Wil
son has been laboring for days
to keep you from, and that a
Democratic congress is now
wrestling with?
RURAL CARRIERS TO MEET AT
OREGON
The semi-annual meeting of the
Rural Letter Carriers' association of
the Fourth congressional district will
convene at Oregon next Monday and
promises to be an Interesting event.
Several carriers from the St. Joseph
routes will atfend. The program Is
an Interesting one and the people of
Oregon propose to entertain the dele
gates in their usual hospitable man
ner. A FORTY YEARS AGO FAKE
When Will Vlsscher, newspaper
man and poet of Louisville, St. Louis,
Kansas -City, St. Joseph, Omaha and
Denver, married pretty little black
eyed Blanche Mason, not so very long
ago, It was a genuine love match, vlth
no knowledge on Vlsscher's part that
he was making an alliance with an
heiress. But now It transpires that,
following the recent death of her fa
ther In San Francisco, Mrs. Vlsscher
Is to come into the goodly heritage of
$50,000. Kansas City Times, Aug. 19,
1876.
LEWIS C. BURNES NO MORE
jOne of St. Joseph's Best Known Cltl-
zenc and Business Men Joins
the Silent Majority
When the news reached tho city
Saturday afternoon that Lewis C.
Burncs. president of tho Burnes Na-j
tional Bank, had expired on the
ground? of tho Country Club, wnero
he was engaged In a game of golf!
with hi', friends, It was hardly be- L
lleved, but such proved to be the case, ,
and on Tuesday afternoon' the final
act In hi3 life's drama was enacted
when the remains were laid to rest
In the Burnes vault in beautiful Mount
Mora. His death came suddenly, the
result of heart failure superindured
by too igorous exertion in an en-
feebled condition. From the time
that he was stricken until his death
but about twenty minutes Intervened,
!ten of those precious moments of
-which Mr Burnes was conscious. Drs.
' P. O. Thomnson and H. J. Ravold, who
were on the links near him when he
was stricken, did all in their power,
but could not stay the falling sword
of the destroyer.
The funeral services occurred from
the Francis Street Methodist Episco
pal Church, of which the deceased
was a member and officer, on Tues
day afternoon and were attended by
Ctlt 4iiIllDC .U.... . ..... .w
nn (n.nar.ca Tllltrtnor nT iriPnn III IIIC ,
late banker. The floral tributes were,
,...,, m(.n.iM Vip rnnkPt and the en-!
tire frmt of the church being a pro- that the change demanded by the Re
'fusion of loving tributes. Services publican party meant, if effected th.-
were conducted by Rev. Goodrich and
Ttev. Porter and were simple but Im-
pressUe At their conclusion the re-
mains were taken to Mount Mora
where the services were concluded In ,
private.
Mr. Burnes is survived by his wife.
two daughters, and one son. They are '
Mrs. James S. Boyd, Morrbtown, Pa., i
Mrs. W W. Wheeler, Jr., and C. C.
Burnes. St. Joseph. "
Mr. Burnes was born Nov. 9, 1S0O '
He was married July 6, 1886. to Miss Thoughtful men know that the presi
Ida Collins, daughter of a prominent dent a(jvsed by Roosevelt, in accord
St. Joseph merchant. ' an(j aSreement with Roosevelt, will
In"thf death of Lewis C. Burnes St. ., UD var jt war be possible."
Joseph and Missouri lose a man who
was i'tViilder and proraotor, a man jjugi,es' criticisms of the admlnlstra
who did much good, a man who was a t, nollcv and reviewed the utter-
power In the community, a man whom ances of Mr noosevelt since the war ues this writer in the New Y'ork Corn
all will miss, especially the poor and declared Mr. Hughes "In complete merclal. "says that the United States
needy.
WOULD SUIT HERE
Col. Gardner Would Place
Roach on State Utility Com
mission Con
Six weeks ago Cornelius Roach was
the contending man for governor In
Monroe county and in the state. Shan
non's desertion to Atkinson at Kansas
City brought the fight to an open
showdown between the Ripley county
man and Gardner and from that mo
ment the ehances of the secretary of
state began to wane. He was caught
between the upper and nether grind
stones and attempts to stem the tide
were futile. Hundreds of Democrats
In Monroe county voted against him
reluctantly even when they were con
vinced he had no chance. The Mer
cury still believes that he was the
best equipped man in the race and has
no regrets for having gone to the last
ditch with him. Colonel Gardner, if
elected, could no himself and his ad
ministration credit by making the sec
retary of state head of the public util
ity commission. No man In the state
has the information regarding public
service corporations that Roach has or
would make a more loyal or efficient
servant of the people. His friends in
the party are a multlude and they
have a right to ask this much of the
. nominee. Paris Mercury.
SHELTON SUSTAINS
PAINTER'S ACTION
Judgment of Ouster Rendered
Against Crandell and
McDonald
Judge Nat M. Sheldon of Macou, sit
ting ns special Judge on Thursday, sus
tained the action of Acting Governor
Painter tn his removal from office of
Dr U. G. Crandell and Commissioner
McDonald and Issued a writ of ouster.
By agreement Judge Lucien J Eastin
and Kenneth C. Sears, assistant attor
ney general, left for Jefferson City
that night, where a writ of super
cedeas was filed with the supreme
court, which will determine the ques
tion of whether the old board will re
main in active control or the new
board take charge pending the de
cision of the supreme court In the
matter, to which tribunal an appeal
was taken.
!
WILSON'S GOOD WORK !
The Brotherhood Agrees to Call !
off Strike If Adamson Bill Is
Passed
Again President Wilson has
demonstrated that he Is the man
of tho hour and that he can do
things and all in the Interest of
peaCP.
Thursday afternoon ho sue-
ceeded, after days of patient
worry and excessive labor, In In-
duclng the brotherhood leaders to
agree to a calling off of the strike
If the Adamson compromise eight-
hour dav bill was passed, which
was on that day Introduced In the
house, and from there will go to
senate. It is expected that the i
measure will be a law by today.
Again has President Wilson
shown his interest and solicitude
for the people of this great na-
tion.
REED'S GREAT SPEECH
Missouri's Junior Senator Says that
the Election of Hughes Means
War
In the senate on Tuesday. James A.
. .... , . . .L.mj vtiocnuri'a preat lunlor senator
JLCCUi ,ovm. u r-
., I ,V.n
made a speecn wnicn ecmu:
august and sedate body. He declared
precipitation or tne unueu 0ilcs .m
war.
-if Mr. Hughes is to be elected to
the presidency," said Senator Reed,
- then It is notice to all the world that
America has repudiated Wilson's poll-
c- of peace for the Roosevelt-Hughes
policy of war.
..r et the issue be not misunderstood.
We now, the world knows, that
Woodrow Wilson will maintain peace
uniess the nation's honor is assailed.
senator Reed referred to Mr. j
accord with a man who has persist-
ently insisted we should have inter- will follow a declaration or peace. ISO
ivened against Germany when she in- ( body can foretell with certainty what
Ivaded Belgium: tn complete accord: will happen, but the nearest thing to
! with a man who refers in coarse Ian-1 absolute certainty is that the fate of
jguage to the president as a 'molly- our trade and industries depends on
I coddle.' a man of 'weasel words,' in our confidence in the future. If Amer-
romnlete accord with a man who lean business men shy at shadows and
falsely asserts that we were bound by. neglect to take advantage of opportu
treaty to engage in the conflict against jnlties and readjust themselves to
. 3 ...1,1. n ' AV.H..n ..n n.,i1l,tnn nllf rA.eatlt Mid
Germany; in complete acL-uru iw
man who demands universal military
service, and war preparation upon a
scale not hitherto dreamed of."
Senator Reed invited the country to
"explore that deligntiui couuirj try; stronger, perun3, iuau an -u-which
he said Mr. Hughes had char- rope put together at the end of this
acterized as a "fool's paradise." The ( war. Our markets will be the best
Missouri senator then gave figures to and most desirable in an tne worm,
show that bank deposits increased In A quarrel with us would Inflict heavy
President Wilson's first three years losses on the other side. In the first
29.5 per cent, or $5,985,464,675; that place, we have the gold upon which
bank resources increased 3T-.6 per cent, credits are based. Our financial posl
or $7,699,400,000. and that resources tlon Is growing stronger, as Europe
rMhPil an aggregate of $28,au.3a&.-
000
"The actual increase under Wilson,"
said Senator Reed, "was nearly four
times as ereat as under Roosevelt and
hlmost three times as great as under
Tatt ..
GOES TO OKLAHOMA CITY
. .
and
Monday for their Future Home
in Oklahoma City
St. Joseph lost on Mondu Prof. J.
A. Whiteford and family, who left
for their new home In the state of
Oklahoma, where Prof. Whiteford has
assumed the duties of superintendent
of public schools In Oklahoma City.
The new field of work will be on
a larger scale, the public schools hav
ing an assemblage of 16,000 students.
The salary paid a superintendent Is
very much larger than here, and so
the financial end Is as satisfactory as
the work Itself.
Prof. Whiteford and family leave a
host of friends behind them who know
from .the excellent record and show
ing made during his twelve years su
perintendency here that success will
be his In the Oklahoma schools, and
the teachers of the public schools, as
well as the graduates of tho high
schools, too, feel that a splendid su
perintendent and a master educator
has been lost to St. Joseph. Oklahoma
City should feel proud to obtain the
services of such an excellent gentle
man and educator as Prof Whiteford
Prof. Whiteford and Family "-e"TTi, ctntp9 would be stroneer than
PROSPERITY
"I
M
Candidate Hughes Disputed by
Financial Experts, Regard
less of Party Affiliations
AND THEY GIVE
COGENT REASONS
They Show That the Condition of the
Country Is Such at the Present
Time That There Is No Room for
Pessimists, Doubting Thomases and
the Prophets of Evil Who Like the
Magpie Have Nothing But Notes of
Discord, Distrust and Gloomy Omen
at All Times.
Financial experts dispute the Impu
tations of candidate Hughes that the
prosperity obtaining under the Wilson
administration Is only temporary.
Confirmation of this unexampled
prosperity throughout the country is
found In the financial pages of every
representative newspaper each day. A
vast majority of the financial writers
for these newspapers, regardless of
parties or politics, unhesitatingly pre
dict that the prosperity this country
is enjoying has come to stay.
"Not a cloud is in the sky as far as
domestic business Is concerned," says
an editorial writer in the New Y'ork
Commercial of July 28. "The crops
promise well and one of the largest
and best crops of winter wheat ever
known has been reached. Railroad
traffic and earnings are breaking all
previous records for this season of the
year. Bank clearings tell the same
story of prosperity. The west Is op
timistic but Wall street is a doubting
T.homas."
It should be remembered in this con
nection that Wall street Influences are
behind candidate Hughes and proba
bly he has caught the infection of mis
givings. Trade Depends on Confidence
"The latest ptophet oi evil," contin-
will suffer in the commercial war that
tuautc mc wumuuu, um .v.... ,
of progress wIU be checked."
j "Why should we fear a commercial
( war in Europe? The unuea btaies
will be stronger than any other coun-
exhausts nseir in mis struggle." - - -
"In the second place, our industries
are better organized for the produc-
tlon of peace products than those of
the belligerent powers and our- natural
resources are practically limitless. Our
labor and capital nave noi Deen
wasted on the battlefields."
"In the third place, should a com
mercial war take the form of exercls-
ing monopolies of raw materials, the
,the resL"
This writer proceeds to show that
the United States has a greater mo
nopoly in the production of cotton and
food products than any other country
in the world and therefore concludes
that "if peace is better than war, we
shall welcome every sign of Its ap
proach." A financial authority writing in the
financial columns of the New Y'ork
American under date of July ; 24 has
this to say;
"President Wilson's plan to put Mex
ico under bonds to keep the peace,
purchase of munitions for March, 1917,
by the Allies, willingness of the banks
to accept any kind of collateral that
has market quotation and that per
sonal activities of directors of corpo
rations, in the stock market, Indicate
that the optimistic tone of the stock
market means the beginning of, an im
portant new constructive campaign."
New Business Totals Millions
Meanwhile, our trade with Central
and South America Is showing such a
vast Increase that our prosperity In
(Continued on Page Four)
0
EMPORARY
' -;
y.jjnfmit, j'm.--w..
-J.. ., ..J - r -
SjrfMflitU'MM
.a, jfa.,? L "'rgrYTiMin
