THE BARRE DAILY
TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 145.
HAH RE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, SKPTKMKKK 2, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
STRIKE
TO BE
OFF
ORDER
CALLED
TO-NIGHT
i -
;So Confident Arc Leaders of the Four
Brotherhoods the Adamson Bill Will
Pass the Senate That They Have
Prepared Code Messages Ready For
Instant Release
SENATE TOOK UP BILL
EARLY THIS FORENOON
House Passed the Measure Late Yester
day After Considerable Debate, But
the Final Majority Was Very Strong
ly in Favor of Adoption No Amend
ments Are Likely
Washington, D. C, Sept. 2. Not later than 6 o'clock this evening:
the Senate will vote on the Adamson eight-hour bill, which was
passed yesterday evening by the House, in order to effect a calling
off of the railway strike. Strong belief prevailed that the bill
would be passed without amendment and would be sent irnmedi-j
ately to President Wilson for his signature.
The heads of the four brotherhoods, anticipating such action
had code messages to the officials of local unions, revoking the order
which was sent broadcast early in the week for a strike starting a
7 o'clock Monday morning. If the bill is passed, it is believed they
will not wait until it is signed by the president, who is at Long
Branch, N. J., to receive formal notification of his nomination.
The Senate convened early this forenoon to begin action on the
bill.
.
lime, n mil' r any (limit, or under duress,
Hnrtt begun, where is this aurrcndcring to
end? Men may say under these circum
I a men it is necessary to have this enter
K''y legislation because by lining this
uikIit pressure and tinder dureas in the
very few hour that remain to n we will
avert a strike, sorrow and bloodshed.
Who will be responsible for the blood
shed and aorrow and want and suffering
and privation that may follow because of
it ? ill wo I held responsible for
mose who set out to bring about a na
IIoiihI calamity on the land became we
do not yield to them and grant their de
nianda under terror of threat? Wbere
will the moral responsibility reet when
the people of the I'nited States'wake up
una una out who did thia thing?"
FREIGHT EMBARGO
IS MODIFIED
Washington. D. C, Sept. 2. Preven
tion of the threatened railroad strike
through an act of Congress seemed as
; eured after the House last night by an
overwhelming vote had passed the Adam
son eight-hour day law and the Senate
had agreed to take a final vote on the
measure not later than 6 o'clock this
evening.
Although it is possible that Senate
amendment may make conferences neces
sary, it is generally believed on both
Bides of the capitol that when the test
comes the House bill as it stands will be
accepted and rushed to Shadow Lawn,
N. J., for President llson s signature.
And, while no formal announcements
were forthcoming from the employes'
brotherhoods head, it is authoritatively
stated that this will result in immediate
despatch of code messages calling off the
general strike ordered for Monday morn
ing. The Adamson bill as passed in the
House by a vote of 230 to 56, with minor
amendments, is the same measure which
the brotherhoods' leaders officially de
clared would constitute a "satisfactory
settlement" and prevent the strike. The
amendments added to conform to a draft
framed by the Senate interstate com- j
merce committee would fix the effective
date Jan. 1 instead of Dec. 1, 1P16, and
exempts railroads less than 100 miles
long and electric street and interurban
lines. Briefly, it provides:
That eight hours shall be deemed a
day's work and the standard for reckon
ing compensation of railroad employes
operating trains in interstate commerce
after Jan. 1, 1917; and
That a commission of three appointed
by President Wilson shall investigate the
effects of the eight-hour standard from
eix to nine months and then report to
Congress, present wages not to be re
duced during the investigation or for 30
days thereafter, and overtime to be paid
at a pro rata Tate.
It was after a day of hot debate that
the House passed the bill, under a special
rule brought in when Republican Leader
Mann objected to its consideration. Lesa
than half of the Republicans followed
their floor leader in the opposition, and
when the final vote came 70 of them
lined up with the majority while only 56
voted against the measure. Just two
Democrats, Representatives Steele of
Pennsylvania and BlaeJc of Texas stood
out against the bill and Representative
Lodon of New York, the only Socialist,
voted for it.
Red tape was eliminated as far as
possible to rush the measure over to the
Senate, which after several hours of live
ly discussion over a bill reported by its
interstate commerce committee, had re
cessed until 8 o'clock. When the Senate
reconvened the- House legislation was
there awaiting action.
The Senate committee bill, drafted
derwood advocating it and Senator Cum
mins making a long speech criticising
the whole proceeding. Most of the sen
ators had little to say, and in the cloak
rooms there were strong intimations that
the reason for this was the general con
viction that in the end the House bill
would go through without change.
Shortly after 11 o'clock the Senate
agreed to a proposal by Senator New
lands to close debate at 4 o'clock thi
afternoon and to proceed then to vote on
the House bill and all amendments and
to a final vote not later than 6 o'clock,
Then the Senate adjourned until 10
oclock this morning.
REP. GREENE OPPOSED
8-HR. BILL'S PASSAGE
Vermont Congressman Lifted His Voice
in Protest Although He Is in Sym
pathy with the Men.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 2. -Represen
tative Frank L. Greene during the gen
eral debate in the House yesterday after
noon in opposition to the passage of the
Adamson eight-Uour bill made a vigorous
speech. He said in part:
'I am opposed to the passage of this
legislation at this time. If we were to
have an opportunity to go into the mer
its of the case, if we were to have an op
portunity to exercise something like the
same judicial and magisterial duty to
ward the parties to the controversy that
we enjoin upon and demand from courts
that this Congress creates, then it might
not be unlikely that testimony and evi
dence so submitted would convince me
that there wag some truth and justice on
the side of the men who demand an
eight-hour day.
"We should keep in mind, however,
throughout all this discussion as has
been several times intimated here that
this is not a demand for an eight-hour
day which shall limit the hours of phvsi-
cal labor to eight hours a day, but it is
a demand for an eight-hour basic navi
day, consequently placing it on an alto
gether different footing. However that
may be. it seems to me that the onlv
thing that presents itself here to us to
day, as men entrusted with the respon
sibility of government and as men upon
whose shoulders for the time being (how
ever unworthy individually we may be),
is this: When any man, or set of men.
whether they be friends, schoolmates,
fellows, companions, trusted confidants,
or kinsmen, hold up the Congress of the
United States and say that they shall
have certain legislation passed between
this hour and Saturday night or they
will bring a national calamity, bloodshed
Railroads Take That Action After Being
Convinced That Congress Would
Pass the Eight-Hour Law.
Chicago, Sept. 2. Convinced that Con
gress will force them to surrender, pres
idents of imiiortaiit western railroads
last night ordered rescinding or modifi
cation of the treight embargo established
in preparation tor a generuj railway
strike. At tint same time the railroad
executives announced defections from
the ranks of the railway brotherhoods
and declared they had enough men to
operate trains, strike or no strike. This
was denied by brotherhood officials.
Hale Hold -n, president of the Chicago,
Burlington and Quiricy, and spokesman
for the railroads in the conference with
President Wilson said the railroads ars
convinced Congress will force through
the eight-hour law before the date set
for the strike, but that tthey are taking
no chances.
Modifications of the freight embargo
were announced here by the trie ana
the Rock Island systems.
While the railroad executives were
claiming the defection of thousands of
irotherhood members, officials of the un
ions through Timothy Miea, vice-presi
dent of the Brotherhood of the Firemen
and Knginetuen, said the railways habit
ually circulate such stories and they havi
no fears their men would not obev th
strike call.
Polls of emnloves who are members
of the unions were practically completeii
and in general the roads said that they
would bo able to count on the loyalty o
about 25 per cent of their trainmen, eve
if the strike order is not revoked.
Suits for injunctions against calling
strikes were tiled bv individual brother
hood members in various parts of th
country. i
FRENCH
FAILED
TO HOLD
Germans Forced Their Way
in to Trenches South of
Estrees on the Somme
Front, According to Offi
cial Admission by the
Paris Official Statement
REPEATED AND
VIOLENT ATTACKS
In Champagne the Russian
Troops Put to Flight a
Contingent of the German
Troops After a Spirited
Engagement Northwest of
Auberive
VOTE TO SUSPEND WORK.
If Interborough Co. Doesn't Meet Their
Representatives.
New York, Sept. 2. Three thousand
motormen and conductors employed on
the elevated and subway lines of the
Interborough Rapid Transit company
voted last night to suspend work at once
unless the officers of the corporation
consent to meet a committee from the
union. The ultimatum will be presented
next week Tuesday.
Ibe emploves contend that President
Theodore P. ahonts and General Mana
ger Frank Hedley have failed to keep
an agreement they entered into on Au
gust 7 to meet a campaign represent
ing the workers who had become mem
bers of the Amalgamated Association
of Street and Electric Railway Em
ployes.
The ultimatum to the Interborough
was decided upon in the race or wage
increases aggregating 81,750,000, which
have been made since January I.
Mclaughlin out of it.
Tennis "Comet" Failed to Defeat Church
in Championship.
Forest Hill, N. Y., Sept. 2. The de
feat of Maurice E. McLaughlin, the idol
of American lawn tennis, at" he hand
of George M. Church, was the outstand
ing feature of the fourth round of the
national singles championship tourna
ment on the court of the West Side
lub here yesterday. The elimination of
the Californian comet in his widely her-
lded attempt to come back after two
years of defeat, left but three western
exponents in the field for the 1916 title
as against four eastern stars and one
southern expert.
George M. Church is the hope of the
eastern contingent while the West is
inning its faith on the ability of Wil-1
am M. Johnston, victor a year ago, al
though it is conceded that of the re
maining eight players in the- tourna
ment R. Xorris Williams, 2d, of Philadl-
phia and Clarence J. Griffin of San Fran-
isco, both have a chance to come
irough and capture the highest honors
American tennis for the present sea
son.
Paris, Sept. 2. After repeated and vio
lent attacks last night the Germans re-
occupied part of the trenches taken re
cently by the French on the Somme
rfont, south of Estrees.
In Champagne, the official announce
ment says, the Russian troops put to
flight a German contingent northwest of
Auberive after a spirited engagement.
WAS DRIVEN
TO SUICIDE
Because of Bulgaria's Delay
in Declaring War on
Rumania
GEN. J0ST0FF WAS
GREATLY AGITATED
First Report Said That He
Died of Appendicitis
London, Sept. 2. Reports have been
received in Amsterdam that General Jos-
off, chief of the Bulgarian general staff,
committed suicide because of Bulgaria's
delay in declaring war on Rumania, sayi
dispatch to the Exchange Telegrap'i
o.
The dispatches yesterday said that
General Jostoff'i death was due to appen-
icitis.
INJURIES WERE FATAL.
MORE JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS.
ALLIES' FLEET ARRIVES.
Accompanied By Transport It Is Now
Off Piraeus.
London, Sept, 2. -Unofficial despatches
reaching London, which apparently have
been much censored, indicate to observ
ers there that Greece has abandoned her
neutrality and thrown her lot on the side
of the entente allies. Whether Greece
has already declared war is problematical,
as is the nation or nations to whom she
has thrown down the gauntlet. It is un
officially reported that King Constantine
has abdicated and that the crown prince
has been named as his successor with
former Premier Venizelos as the power
behind the throne. The British foreign
office says it has no confirmation of King
Constantine's abdication.
An entente allied fleet of 2.1 warships
and seven transport is reported to have
arrived off Piraeus, the port of Athens.
A despatch from Athens says it is prob
able that the Greek elections, set for
Oct. 8, will be postponed for a fortnight.
The Greek garrisons at Saloniki, at
Vodena, northwest of Saloniki, and at
Fort Little Karabtirum have surrendered
to a committee which ha taken over the
dministration of part of Greek Macedo
nia, according to unofficial despatches
from Saloniki. The revolt m Saloniki is
confirmed by the British foreign ojce.
Greeks, friendly to the entente allies,
surrounded the barracks of the Greek in
fantry in Saloniki and are said to have
exchanged shots with them. Gen. Sar
rail, the allied commander at Saloniki,
intervened to prevent further bloodshed.
Dennis J. Hurley of Rutland Was Caught
in Shafting.
Rutland. Sept. 2. Dennis .T. Hurley,
he engineer who was caught in a shaft
the United Marble companies' plant
Co mn bin n avenue early Thursday
morning, died at the Rutland hospital at
bout 5 o'clock yesterday morning. The
ctails of the accident are still a mystery
s the engineer was unable to give much
information. It is thought that he slipped
nd fell upon the machinery. He was
lorn In Hopkinton, N. Y., 44 rears ago
He was employed as a railroad engineer
for some tune but had worked for th
United Marble companies for nearly a
year. Ho is survived by one son, Har
old C. Hurley of North Lawrence, N". Y.,
two sisters, Mrs. Julia Fitzgerald of
North Lawrence and Mrs. Michael Me
Ginnis of Malone, X. Y., two brothers,
I). W. Hurley of Burlington and G. C.
Hurley of Hopkinton.
The body was taken to the Spencer &
Canty undertaking rooms from the hos-1
pital and sent to Burlington yesterday!
afternoon. The funeral will be held in
that city at 9 o'clock Monday morning
at the Catholic cathedral.
There Will Be 11 Instead of Four Thii
Year.
Burlington. Sept. 2.-Dr. Milo B. Hille
gas, stale i-omuiUaioner of education, said
between trains Iat evening there will be
II junior high school instead of four
when the public nchool, resume work
Burlington, Jefferitonville, J'huntleld and
Cabot have them already j the new
schools will be Essex Center, Hineshurg,
Higligate, North. Trov, V aitsllcld, Kan
doliili (enter and Concord. There are
roughly .100 student In the Burlington
school itnd an average of tiO in the others.
Kach of the 11 wliool will obtain $.iOQ
from the state out of an appropriation
made for the purmise bv the legislature
at Its Iat regular session.
Clyde M. Hill of Springfield, Mo., has
been appointed supervisor of junior high
hools, a new lv created office. Mr. Hill
lias been instructor in the Missouri state
normal echool at Springfield and director
of the model junior high school there.
He did a quantity of research work at
Columbia in the specialty. One or more
extra teacher will be required ami have
been or will lie appointed for each of the
II schools except Burlington. One of the
new teachers in each instance will be a
teacher of home economics.
lr. Hill romes to Vermont at a con
siderably les salary than he has been
receiving, largely on the personal urging
of Pt. Hillegas. He is using a years
eave of absence for the purpose.
His coming means that the junior high
hool system of the state Is now fairly
unched. Tuesday and Wednesday a
onlcrence of five of the junior high
ools at Essex Center, Highgate, I
North Troy, Jcffersonville and Concord
wa held at Johnson, with about 30
eachers present. Thursday and Friday
similar conference was held at the
State House, Montpelier, at which the
other M-hools were represented. In Mont
pelier Miss Bessie Bacon Goodrich, prin
cipal of the Johnson Normal school, out
lined the work in English; Prof. Floyd
B. Jenks of the state college of agricul
ture, that In agriculture; R, G. Reynolds
of Montpelier, the social side of the
schools' work; and Miss Flertha M. Ter
rill, professor of home economies at the
state university.Tiome" economics. There
was a free discussion at both conferences,
teachers questioning the speakers and
Or. Uillegas. The conferences were bv
way of preparation for the actual work
and were gratifyingly successful.
RUNAWAY CARS
HIT A TRAIN
Traveling at 50 Miles an
Hour Struck Passen
ger Train
MANY HURT IN
THE BIG WRECK
Ca
J tan Two Miles Down
7 ,rade at Lafayette,
: . Ind. ;
Lafayette, Ind., Sept. 2. Two men
were seriously injured and three other
are missing as the result of a wreck to-
lay in the local yard of the Big Four
railroad. A string of freight car broke
ooe at Altamont, two mile east of
here, nd backed down grade at a rate of
50 miles an hour into a passenger train
of the Big Four which was standing at
the station here.
C0RSI CARUSL
COULDN'T FURNISH BAIL.
ITALIANS ON OFFENSIVE.
Have Occupied Tepeleni, in Southern
Albania.
Rome, Sept. 2, via London. Italian
troops have begun an offensive in south
ern Albania and have occupied Tepeleni,
31 miles southeast of Avlona on the Vo
yusa l iver. says the official statement is
sued by the war office yesterday. The
Greek garrison withdrew from Tepeleni.
Austrian attacks in the Brenta valley
and near Gorizia have been repulsed, the
statement adds.
suffering, starvation, misery and went
upon this land, it is time-for somebodv
during a late session Thursday night nd to stand up in the United States and say
GIVEN JOYOUS GREETING.
President Wilson Welcomed By Cheering
Throng at Long Branch.
Long Branch, N. J., Sept. 2. Presi
dent Wilson was enthusiastically wel
comed to his summer home here w hen he
arrived last night for the formal noti
fication of his re-nomination to-day. A
cheering throng greeted him at the rail
road station and automobile horns and
sirens made a bedlam of noise as bis
Although the above statement says
that a Greek garrison evacuated Tepeleni,
there has never been any official informa
tion of the occupation of the town by the
Greeks. Tepeleni is approximately 3.1
miles north and west of the border of
Greece.
MAINE SOLDIER WOUNDED.
Was Accidentally Shoi- While at Target
Practice.
HEAR HUGHES IN RAIN.
Crowd Gathered at Topeka to Greet the
Republican Candidate,
Topeka, Kans., Sept. 2.- Charles E.
Hughes, speaking at the capitol grounds
to a crowd that stood through a shower
to listen, yesterday declared that the
protection for which he stood was more
than protection in a commercial sense to
American business, but embraced protee
tion of American rights on land and sea,
of national peace, of American industry
and against inefficiency in government.
"I stand for protection in a comprehen
sive sense," Mr. Hughes said. "I do not
speak either of protection or prepared
ness in a narrow and limited way. I use
the word to nmbrace all that is needed to
foster and promote American enterprise
and to better our conditions."
Mr. Hughes repeated the charges made
at Saline earlier, that the present ad
ministration had been more extravagant
than any other in the history of the
country.
"Only the other day a Democratic sen
ator said that $20,000,000 should have
been saved from the rivers and harbors
bill this year," Mr. Hughes said. The ,
administration g Philippine policy was
characterized as "the scandal of our
scuttling out of the Philippines."
Daniel Pilbin Will Be Given a Hearing
Monday.
Morrisville, Sept. 2. Daniel Pilbin,
who is alleged to have shot twice at Wil
son Vigeant and once at his sister, Em
ily Yigoant, at Elmore Thursdav morn
ing, was given a hearing yesterday at
the office of State Attorney M. P. Mau
rice. I he hearing was continued until
Monday morning at 10 o'clock and Pil
bin was sent back to jail, unable to se
cure the bail of $5,000.
Charles Pilbin, charged with assault
ing Wilson Vigeant' Thursday night,
waived examination and was bound over
till the December term of Lamoille coun
ty court.
The assault upon Mr. Vigeant occurred
about 8:30 Thursday evening, when, it is
said, that Charles Pilbin came up to the
wagon in which Vigeant was riding and
struck him in the head, stunning him.
Mr. Vigeant was badly cut and bruised
in the encounter.
The Pilbin men are tall and of the
mountain type of men. Daniel, it is
said, has tried to marry Miss Vigeant
for some time. She said in an interview
that he had made her life miserable for
the past 11 years, threatening every lit
tle while to shoot her if she did not
marrv him.
Spaulding Graduate the Bride of Bam
Granite Manufacturer.
At the bride's home, 16 Second street,
this forenoon at 11 o'clock, Mis Ed
Carusi and Adolfo Corsi were married
by Justice of the Peace James Mackay,
only relatives and intimate friends of
the couple witnessing the ceremony. Miss
Carolyna Calcagni attended the bride and
the groom had for his best man Gaston
Tosi. The bride wore white taffeta with
gold lace and lilies of the valley and
carried a shower bouquet of bride's roses.
Her bridesmaid was gowned in salmon
pink taffeta. The room where the wed
ding took place was attractively ar
ranged with evergreen and hydrangea
blossoms. This evening at lt$ Second
street bride and groom will be tendered
a reception and afterward they are to
leave on a honeymoon trip to Bot:u
and vicinity.
The bride is one of the best known
young women in the Italian colony. She
was graduated from Spaulding high
school in the class of 1916, with the sec
ond honor for scholarship merit. She is
a talented musician. Mr. Corsi is a
granite manufacturer.
NEW VERMONT CORPORATION.
CHESTER YOUTH DROWNED.
MONTPELIER
Miss Clara Senter, who has been visit
ing her sister at Keene, N. H., for several
weeks, arrived in the city last evening.
Hubert Conlin. who has been visiting
in the city with his parents for the past
two weeks, left last evening for Detroit.
Mich., where he is employed by the Fargo I
Went Out in Sail Boat with Three Boy
Companions.
Chester, Sept. 2 Carroll Hastings, 21
years old, son of Mrs. Hattie Hastings,
of this town, was drowned at Lake Stod
dard, Stoddard, X. H when a sail boat
occupied by him and three other young
men capsized. Hastings was unable to
swim but his companions, who were
able to swim a little, managed to keep
afloat until they could grasp the over
turned boat.
The party, which included Vincent La
Fountain, Paul Ballou, Lille Churchill
and Hastings, all of Chester, had been
in camp at the lake for about a week.
The details of the accident could not
be learned but the capsizing of the boat
is supposed to have been due to the in
experience of the young men in handling
a sailing craft.
Hastings graduated from the Chester
Graniteville Finnish-Socialist Association
to Erect Building.
Articles of association were filed to
day with the secretary of state by-the
Graniteville Finnish Socialist associa
tion, Inc., organized to promote the So
cialist movement, especially among tha
r inlanders of America. The asociation,
according to the article, plan "to dis
seminate knowledge, popularize educa
tion, advance the cause of economic jus
tice, attain the industrial emancipation
of the people and establish the principle
of the equal rights in all human institu
tions, political , industrial, social, re
ligious and educational."
The association also intends to erect
nnd maintain in Graniteville a build
ing with a reading room and library,
theatre and gymnasium. There ia no
capital stock and the signers are John
Karppinen, Fank Maijala, Augusti Bar
timaa, Z. M. Kanerva and Viktor Maki,
all of Graniteville.
MISSING BOY LOCATED.
high school with the class of 1015 and
was very popular in town. Hesides hu
mother he leaves one sister, Miss Hatie
Hastings, of this town.
USE VERMONT GRANITE.
For
Macdonougfc Memorial
Maine Stone.
Instead ol
Express Co. He waa accompanied bv
William Milo, jr., who will be employed
by the same company.
Harry I,. Slade returned last evening
from Ronton and other places in Massa
chusetts, where he has been spending 10
days.
Mrs. Agnes Silloway returned to-day
to Burlington, having been in the city to
attend the funeral of Mrs. W. L. Ban
croft, which was held Thursday.
Hidden Farrar, who has been employed
during the summer in New Britain.
Conn., has arrived in the city for a few
weeks' visit with his parents. Mr. and
Mrs. Waldo H. Farrar of College street, Idonough commission Thursday and ap
before returning to Dartmouth rollcge j proved of the location in tiie park sc
for his second year. , lected by the commission for the plae-
I.aredo, Tex., Sept. 2. Private Fonier Miss Marion Bombard of Parre street ing of the memorial monument commetn-
of C company, 2d Maine infantry, whose left last evening for Springfield, Mas-s., ! orating the bi;ilding of the licet here by
where she will make a 10 days visit ( ommodore Macdonough in I I 14. tol.
Taylor said that the contract for tht
Woodstock Youth is in Windsor Work
ing in Machine Shops.
Woodstock, Sept. 2. -Francis Webster,
15-year-old son of Myron M. Webster,
who left home July. 11, leaving no clew
to his whereabouts, has been found in
Windsor, being recognized by a Wood
stock man there and is now at home.
It appears he went straight to Wihdsor
from here and has since been working in
machine shops under name of Edward.
His night and day labors netting him $13
a week.
The Guardsmen's Return.
A picture of Secretary of War Baker
flashed on the screen at a moving picture
show attended bv New York militiamen
in Texas was hissed. Mr. Baker recently
stated thnt the National Guard would be
kept in Texas indefinitely, and the men,
restless under their enforced, and to their
way of thinking unnecessary, presence
along the border, took this means of ex
pressing their opinion.
To show such open disrespect of the
head of the war department is subversive
of military discipline. But it is not sur
prising guardsmen feel resentment at be
ing kept awav from their home when
Cary T. Grayson, the White House aurgical treatment at the camp hospital with relatives.
j lor a bullet wound in his side. lie was Mr. and Mrs. illiam Craig of water-
anotber yesterday morning, was the
Adamson measure with the same amend
ment adopted by the House and an add
ed section empowering the interstate
commerce commission to fix the wage
of interstate railroad employes at the
end of the proposed period of investiga
tion. At the outset of the night session Sen
ator Xewlands sought and obtained
unanimous consent to put aside the Sen
ate bill and take up the one sent over
from the House, thereby psving the way
Jor quick final action without parliamen
tary formalities that otherwise would
be necessary. Then Senator Underwood
brought up the issue oTer which the Sen
ate ia divided by proposing a an amend
ment the rate fixing provision of the
divarded Senate bill.
Over thia amendment debate waged for
three hours, Senators Xewlands and Un-
that the government of the United States
is greater than any combination of men
under it.
"This principle it seems to me, con
fronts us here In this issue, and it rises
pre-eminently above the mere detail of
the merit of the controversy. Instinc
tively and by reason of my early sur
roundings, from my education and en
vironments. I am in sympathy with men
who are toiling for wage.
"I could tell you omething about it if
it were not of a peculiarly personal char
acter and had a real bearing on this is
sue. I could powrtblv convince vou that I
am speaking sincerely when Tsay that,
but I ear to-day that a we stand here
facing this proposition, that the reU
merit of this dispute are not involved
until the Congress of the United Stat-
assert it dignity and self-respet and
train pulled in. With the president were
Mrs. Wilson. Secretary Tumulty and I borne s at Livermore Falls, Me., is under
Dr.
physician,
Everything is in readiness for the ! accidentally shot wnile at target prac- l,rv. who have been making a brief visit
notification ceremonies this afternoon. At:'0- At n hospital it was stated that in the city witli the latter' sister. Mrs.
I o'clock the president and Mr. Wilson !,ne wound-was not serious. The health i David E. Spicer, left to-day for Lewis-
will give a luncheon for Senator Oil!e ' ot the -Maine contingent is excellent.
James and the other members of the no-1
tification committee, members of the!v r, n r-i-i.
n ; i v iou can Depend on an American Clcck.
Democratic national committee, members
of the cabinet and other prominent Dem
ocrats. The formal exercises will be held on
the the spacious lawn of Mr. Wilson's
temporary home, and he will deliver his
.speech at 4 o'clock in the afternoon.
ALIEN SHD? ACT EXTENDED.
Pres. Wilson's Act Gives Until Septem
ber 4, 1917.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 2. President
Mary E. Wilkin Freeman, the famous
writer of New England stories, has writ-!
ten a love storv for the Sentemhf-r Worn-I street have rone to Portland. Me., and
an' Home Companion. In 1t, this pas- other cities to spend two weeks, the for
sage occurs: mer taking a two weeks' vacation from
"William turned to Marion. 'Did you j his duties In the office of the Lane Manu
say one of your father's clocks had facturing Co.
stopped ?' he asked. j The local baseball team play Burlinp-
" 'Ye, worn out. AH things have their j ton at Intercity park this afternoon at 3
limit. I tuppoee that old clock has , o'clock, men being employed this fore
reached his.' I noon in preparing the grounds for tbe
"'Thi ha not,' said William proudly, contest. Labor day, Monday, the locals
'American clocks, and American furni- i rlsv two gsmes with the lesgue leaders.
Wilson yesterday afternoon signed aniture made by Ameri.-an patriot in the Kutlan,
executive order extending for one year,! beginning of our history were made on j city park
ton. Me., to visit relatives
George Wing, state librarian, and Mr.
Wing have returned from Provinretown.
Mass.. where they went early lat month
to spend vacation.
Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Plalsted of Cliff j President Goes There to Receive Official
Vergennes, Sept. 2. Colonel Taylor,
Major Hell and Captain Mintz of the U.
S. engineering department at Albanv. X".
Y., held a conference with the state Mac-! the necessity for their absence seem re
moved. Many can ill afford to be kept
away. Families of some of them are in
actual want. Employers are tiring of
continuing guardsmen on their payrolls.
The talk bv Secretary Baker of the
"bloodless victories" the men are win
ning daily among the cactus and mes
quite bushes fails to impress them.
Things have progressed far enough to
make it po-sible to form some definite "
idea as to how much longer the presence
of the National Guard along the border
will be required. Mr. Baker should be
able at least to approximate the date of
the return of the troops to their home
and he should make some announcement
to this effect. The injustice of which the
building of the monument would be giv
en soon and that if po-sible at the sug
gestion of the eoimnision Vermont fran
ite would be used instead of Maine gran
ite as at first contemplated.
WILSON TO SHADOW LAWN.
Notification.
Washington. W C, Sept. 2. resident
and Mr. Wilson, accompanied by the
members of the While Hon- household,,
left for Shadow Lawn. X". .T., at 2 n 'clock
yesterday aftern"on. The president will
be notified there at 4 o'dook this after
noon of his renomination. a the Demo-
cratic presidcnti.il candidate.
He and Mrs. Wilson will return to
Because of the picnic at Inter- I thia city to-night and w ill h ave here at
both games are to re riaved j i" ociock r-nniav nismi lor n.vsiTns-
until September 4. 1917, the time dur-j honor. It is the foreign pie-n whioh arelon seminary campus, the first game tojville, Ky., where l.e i to a.--pt on be
ing which foreign-built resel may come not to be depended on. American clocks Mart at 1:30 in the forenoon and the half of the government, the lite Presi-
refuses to be held up by anybody at any under the American flag. go. This Is an American clock." eeend at 3 o'clock. dent Lincoln's plate.
enlist to become profeionl soldier and
that it is wrong to impound them in
definitely for general army service ir
not removed by returning the regiment"
to the mobiliration camp. New York
Globe.
Monday being Labor day and a
holiday, there will be no issues of
The Times. Tuesday' paper will
contain full accounts of the day'
ctix itie.
