VOL. LVML--NO. 211 POPULATION 28,219 NORWICH, CONN., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1916 TEN PAGES 70 COLS. PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest' in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
Fo$$). Profit
'Million a Week
BUSINESS FOR THE YEAR TOTAL
LED $206,867,347
Condensed Telegrams
Ten cases of Asiatic cholera were
reported at Tokio.
Street car railway employes at Que
bec, went on strike.
Contingent Upon Congress Passing Bill Providing for
an Eight Hour Day With Ten Hour Pay
NO INCREASE PROVIDED FOR OVERTIME WORK
The Change is to Become Effective December, or January 1
It is Proposed to Have a Small Commission Appointed
by the President to Investigate the Working of the Law
From Six to Nine Months and Report to Congress The
Measure Will be Voted on in the House at 4:30 P. M. To
day, and Will be Immediately Taken Up by the Senate
Belief is Growing in AH Quarters in Washington That
the Proposals Will Lead to a Satisfactory Settlement.
Washington, Aug. 31. Belief grew
In all quarters here tonight that the
prent railroad strike called for next
Monday manning would be averted.
At the doe of a day of a conferences
and hearings, congress apparently was
prepared to pass tomorrow or Satur
day the eight hour legislation which
heads of the employes' brotherhoods
have declared officially will cause them
to telegraph the code message nec
Bsarv to revoke the svike order.
Although President Ailhon still de
sires strongly to see his whole legisla
tive programme accepted, and demo
cratic leaders in the senate have ideas
of their own about what should be
done, administration spokesmen vir
tuallv conceded tonight that the bill
finally passed would provide only for:
What Bill Provides For.
An eight hour day for trainmen in
interstate commerce, effective Decem
ber 1 or January 1, with the present
ten hour rate of pay and pro-rata ov
ertime: and
A small commission appointed by
he president to investigate the work
ing of the law from six to nine
months and report to congress.
This, with the date December 1. is
in substance the Adamson bill, revised
by Representative Adamson and Dem
ocratic Lender Kitch'.n after cor.fer-i-insr
with President Wilson and which
A. - H. Garrt son, spokesman for the
TTrothorhonds, fated formally late to
dr.v would be considered a "satisfnc
tory settlement" and prevent the walk
out. Tonight the senate interstate
commerce committee agreed to re
port out a similar bill, with tho date
January- 1 and roads under 100 miles
'n length and eletric street railway
end interurbnn lines exempted.
House Votes at 4.30 p. m. Today.
The house will meet at 11 o'clock
tomorrow morning to take up the Ad
amson measure and the majority
ieiders have agreed upon a special
rale provided for a vote by 4.20 o'clock
In the afternoon. The senate meets at
10 o'clock to begin consideration of its
committee's bill, with the adminis
'rr.tion leaders determined to keep the
body In continuous session until it is
passed.
OnU- long speeches in the senate can
prevent prompt action and the admin
istration is confident that minority
leaders will not carry their opposition
so far as o make it imposjible to get
through the necessary legislation
through both houses by midnight Sat.
unlay night.
President Wilson will be in his room
when the senate meets and has ar
ranged to spend all the forenoon there
aiding in putting the legislation
through. At three o'clock in the aft
ernoon he leaves for Shadow Lawn, his
rummer home In New Jersey, where on
Saturday he is to be notified formally
of his nomination for re-election. A
special messenger will be started for
Shadow Lawn with the eight hour bill
as soon as it is passed and the presi
dent will sign It there.
Senate Committee Meets Magnates.
While the senate committee today
was holding a nine hour meeting at
which representatives of the railroads,
the employes and the shippers gave
their views or the situation and the
proposed legislation, the president
held frequent conferences with mem
bers of congress and sent for brother
hood leaders and earnestly urged them
to rescind the strike order.
When the trainmen left, the White
House authorized the statement that
they had given no assurances. It was
fndieat?d the president still intended,
If it became necessary as a last re
sort, to address a public appeal to the
men of the brotherhoods, urging them
on patriotic grounds to have the strike
called off.
Although the programme for action
In the house was clearly outlined with,
out delay. It was not until late tonight
that a definite idea of what the sen
ate would have before it tomorrow was
obtainable. When its hearings closed,
the interstate commerce committee
went into what promised to be an all
night session to consider the various
legislative proposals before it, Includ
ing the president's whole programme
with its provisions for preventing
Ftrikes pending Investigation and for
the drafting of men to operate trains
in case of military necessity. All day
the house leaders had been declaring
that these provisions nevere could be
enacted and near midnight it was
learned that the senate committee had
decided it would not be advisable to
submit them at this time. The com
mittee agreed to report a bill substan
tially to the Adamson1, measure, with
the effective date of the eight hour
provision January lt"1nstead of De
cember 1. and with roads tinder 200
miles long exempted.
Senator Brangegee, a republican
committeeman, expressed the opinion
that the bill could he pased by tomor
row night.
LEGISLATION PROPOSED j
TO PREVENT STRIKE
Argued Before the Senate Interstate
Commerce Committee.
Washington, - Aug. filefftepresenta
trres of to ailroatlB, -of the . train j
men's brotherhoods and of shippers or
ganizations argued for nine hours to
day before the senate interstate com
mittee on legislation proposed to avert
the threatened strike, recompense the
roads for any added financial burden
and perfect machinery to make impos
sible in the future another crisis like
the present. Tonight the committee
worked until late on a .bill to be pre
sented to the senate tomorrow.
Out of the nine hours' agreement two
facts stood clearly. In the estimation
of all affected parties, congress alone
can prevent a strike and the public
eventually will fcot the bill for an
eif?n hour day with ten hours' pay,
which the trainmen demand. The rail
road executives and the shippers in
sisted that the strike order at least
should be postponed and the four
brotherhood chiefs declared with equal
vehemence it could not be.
NEW YORK PROVIDING
FOR POSSIBLE EMERGENCY.
Dealers Will Not Bo Allowed to Use
Threatened Strike as an Excuse to
Raise Food Prices.
New York, Aug. 31. Although the
prospect of averting the thretearied
nation-wide. r-.'.Hrofcd sliikc v,-ais con
sidered encouraging tcv.ight, city offi
cials and represent lives of New
York's- industries 'continue! their ef
forts to provide against buffering in a
possible emergency. Commissioner of
Police Arthur Woods prepared an ap
peal to the railroads nad the four
brotherhoods of employes urging them
in the event of a strike to permit
food supplies to reach the city. The
commissioner also i eiterated nis state
ment that he would act vigorously
against local dealers who used the
lln-r arer.ed strike as an excuse to raise
food prices.
Statistics were obtained by Com
missioner Woods from the various
railroads entering the metropolis
showing that upwards of 9,000 carloads
of food are brought here weekly. Much
o finis is perishable. The department
of health estimated that more than
2F5.000 cans, or 1,140 carloads, of fresh
milk alone are required by the city's
inhabitants weekly. Estimates of the
city's needs of flour ran from 100,000
lo 1T5 CO0 barrels per week.
It was announced that by Saturday
approximately $140,000,000 worth of
previsions, enough to last six weeks,
would be stored by the citv to safe
guard against possible food shortage
in the 15 institutions under the care
of the department of charities. Ar
rangements also were made to bring
fresh milk here by automobi'e.
DENIED PETITION TO
RESTRAIN RAILROAD TRAINMEN
Cheyenne, Wyo, Judge Denies Petition
of a Conductor.
Cheyenne, Wyo.. Aug. 31. Judge
John A. Griner of the United States
court for Wyojning this afternoon de
nied a petition of George W. Argue, a
conductor, for an order restraining the
officers of five divisions of the Order
of Railway Conductors from issuing
and enforcing an order to strike. The
divisions embrace the "Union Pacific.
LAUNCHED SUBMARINE"
FAST IN A MUDSANK
At the Plant of the California Ship
building Company.
Long Beach, Cal., Aug. 31. The
United States submarine L-6 still was
fast tonight in a mudbank in which
it stuck after being launched early to
day at the plant of the California
Shipbuilding company. Several at
tempts to free the vessel, which is
resting at an- angle of about 45 de
grees, proved unsuccessful. Thus far,
it was said, the submersible had not
been damaged.
COTTON CROP EQUIVALENT
TO 11,800,000 BALES.
Forecast Sent Out by the Department
of Agriculture.
Washington, Aug. 31. A cotton crop
of H.800,000 "equivalent 500-pound bales
was forecast today by the department
of agriculture, basing its estimate on
the condition of the crop on Aug. 25.
The condition of the , crop on Aug.
25 was 61.2 per cent, of a normal. Com
pared with 72.3 last month. 69.2 last
year, and 72.5, the available for the
last ten years, on Aug. 25.
FIVE AUTOMOBILE TRUCKS
LOADED WITH ART TREASURES
Arrive in Hartford to Be Placed in
Morgan Memorial Building.
Hartford, Conn.. Aug. 31. Five
large automobile trucks, loaded with
art treasures gathered by the late J.
Pierpont Morgan, arrived here today
from New York. There are 1,671
pieces, including famous paintings,
bronzes, vases and the like. All will
be placed in the Morgan ' Memorial
building he're,
Cabled Paragraphs
Russian Warships at Constanza.
London, Aug. 31. 8.31 p. m. Rus
sian warships have arrived at Con
stanza, Rumania, says a Reuter des
patch from Petrograd.
BOSTON GETS NEXT y
G. A. R. ENCAMPMENT.
Portland, Ore., and Houston, Tex.,
Were the Other Contenders.
Kansas City, Mo., Aug. 31. The an
nual encampment of the Grand Army
of the Republic in 1917 will be held at
Boston. This was decided here late
today at a business meeting at Con
vention hall of the Civil war veterans
attending the present reunion. Port
land, Ore., and Houston, Tex., were the
other contenders.
The veterans also adopted resolu
tions petitioning congress to act on
the pending legislation regarding pen
sions. The election of a new national
commander-in-chief will take place to
morrow. The "dog watch" of the National As
sociation of Naval Veterans, held at
Convention hall tonight, brought to
gether hundreds of the men who fought
the sea and river battles of the Civil
war.
Business eessions of the eight auxil
iary organizations also were held to
day. Mrs. Ida K. Martin, Minneapolis,
was elected president of the Woman's
Relief corps. William T. Church, Chi
cago, was named commander-in-chief
of the Sons of Veterans; Edward L.
Graves, Bridgeport, Conn., senior vice
commander: L. L. Roberts, Kansas
City, junior vice commander.
The Sons of Veterans' auxiliary
named Mrs. M. E. Clothier of Rock
Island, 111., as national president.
GERMANY MAKES
THREAT OF REPRISALS.
Protest Against Russian Treatment of
German Prisoners.
Berlin, Aug. 31 (By Wireless to Say-ville).-
The German government, ac
cording to the Overseas News agency,
has addressed a vigorous protest to the
Russian government "against the bar
barous treatment of prisoners of war"
and has askei for an immediate cessa
tion thereof. It is announced that if
no satisfactory answer i3 received from
the Russian government after a fixed
date reprisals wi" be taken by the
German government.
A considerable amount of money, the
news agency says, has been' transmit
ted to the powers protecting German
interests in Pe;rograd ir; order to alle
raite the sufferings cf the prisoners.
The Xordrleutsche Allgemeine Zei
tung, under the heading "Hell in Rus
sia." today prints sensational details
of th alleged tortures suffered by war
prisoners at the hands of the Russian
authorities.
SENATE AMENDS THE
EMERGENCY REVENUE BILL
Strikes Out Taxes on Raw Materials
Used in Making Munitions. " --
Washington, Aug. 31. The muni
tions section of the emergency revenue
bill was reached in the senate today
and amendments were unanimously
adopted striking out the proposed tax
es on cotton, lumber, rubber and cer
tain other raw materials used in the
making of war muntitions.
During the debate Senator Penrose;
republican, read an editorial charging
southern congressmen with forcing
through sectional legislation and drew
a sharp reply from Senator Stone,
democrat, who said he had "never seen
such a motley group of discredited
forces and political nondescripts,' as
the republican side of the senate pre
sented. GOV. HOLCOMB GUEST
OF CROCODILE CLUB
Attended the Original Dinner Forty
Years Ago.
Brir1"!. Conn.. Aug. 31. With Gov.
Holce b a s guest of honorThe Croco
dile club held its 40th annual gather
ing and sheepbake at Lake Compounce
today. Forty years ago Governor
HoVomh attended te original dinner
of organization but had been pres
ent at no subsequent gathering until
today. Mayors of a number of cities
in the state representing the Mayors'
Association of Connecticut were also
present as guests f Mayor DuttQn of
this city. f
At the business meeting the old of
ficers with Gideon M. Wakelee as pres
ident were re-elected.
BOMB EXPLODED IN A NEW
YORK PAPER BOX FACTORY.
Forty Girls on Upper Floors Were)
Thrown Into a Panic.
New York, Aug. 31. A bomb filled
with small shot was exploded here to
day in the basement stock room of a
paper box factory in which forty girls
were employed. No one was injured,
although the girls working cn upper
floors of the 'building were thrown into
a panic.
The factory is not involved in the
strike of paper box factory employes
which has been in force here for sev
eral weeks, but members of the firm
alleged that some of their employes
had been Intimidated by strike pickets.
FORMAL NOTIFICATION FOR
CHARLES W. FAIRBANKI
Senator Sherman of Illinois Vigorously
Attacked Administration.
Indianapolis, Ind., Aug. 31. Formal
ly notifying Charles W. Fairbanks here
today of his nomination by the repub
lican party for vice president, Senator
Lawrence T. Sherman of Illinois vigor
ously attacked the record of President
Wilson and the democratic party, and
declared that whatever the result of
the election, Indiana would give the
government Its vice president who
would be "an eminent and capable man
and a gentleman."
ZAPATA FORCES DEFEATED
BY CARRANZA SOLDIERS.
Three of Zapata's Principal Generals
Were Killed.
Galveston, Tex., Aug. 81. Carranza
soldiers under General Cezaro Gomez
yesterday met nnd defeated a large
Zapata force at Acatlas, according to a
message received by Mexican Consul
Juan Mateos today. The message says
that three of Zapata's principal gener
als, Rodolfo Rodriguez, Manuel Lozoma
and Manuel Aguilar, were killed. A
large quantity of arms, ammunition
and other war material were taken,
the report says.
EMPLOYS 49,870 MEN
The Year's Profit Was $59,994,118 Of
the Men Employed 36,626 Are Re
ceiving $5 Per Day or More More
Than 27,000 Men Are Employed in
Detroit.
Detroit, Mich., Aug. 31, A profit of
more than $1,000,000 a week was made
by the Ford Motor Company during
the year which ended July 31 .ac
cording to the financial statement
made public today.
The year's business totalled $2$6,
867,347; the year's profit was $59,994,
118. Cash in hand and in banks to
talled $52,530,771. In 1912 the avail
Total men employed in al pants is
able cash was $6,400,100.
49,870. Of these 36,026 are receiving
$5 per day or more, the statement
says. More than 27,000 of these men
are empoyed In Detroit.
Henry Ford announced that most of
the profit will be used in expanding
the company's business.
GOVERNMENT CONSIDERING
RETALIATORY LEGISLATION
Fjr Interference With American Trade
by the Entente Allies.
Washington, Aug. 31. Retaliatory
legislation striking at tho commerce
of the entente allies in support of dip
lomatic protests against interferences
with American trade has been decided
upon as a general policy of the govern
ment after extended conferences be
tween state department officials and
leaders in congress. This was stated
officially today, with the explanation
that provisions written into the ship
ping bill and the pending revenue bill
were first steps in the policy.
Up to now, a high official pointed
out, the United States has relied sole
ly on the equity of its case and the
sense of justice of the belligerent na
tions, but despite frequent protests
on various phases of the allies' block
ade, the principle of whicb this govern
ment has denounced as illegal in a
sweeping note, trade pressure and dis
crimination has been increasing exas
peratingly. Consequently, this official declared,
the government has reached the limit
of its patience in reliance on direct
diplomacy and has decided after dis
cussions between Secretary Lansing
nnd members rf congress to empower
the' president .to employ commercial
retaliation. This course vpould have
been taken somo time ago, it was
stated, except that all plans of retalia
tion proposed vere obviously illegal.
j he amendment to tho revenue bill,
adopted by the senate, would give the
president discretionary power to pro
hibit the importation into this country
of products which cannot be imporifd
into foreign countries from the United
States. This is aimed directly at the
British embargo restricting the ship
ment of American tobacco, which is
said to be an attempt by English in
te?sts to depress the price of the
American product and then monopolize
its sale.
ORDER CAME TOO LATE
TO SAVE SKEFF1NGTON.;
Mandate Not to Remove Prisoners
from the Guard Room Just After
Editor Was Shot.
Dublin, Aug. 31. Lieutenant Dobbin
commander of the guard on the occa
on,ot the shooting of F. Sbeehy
Skefnngtcn, editor of the Irish Citizen
and two companions In the Dublin re
bellion last Easter, testified before the
commission of inquiry today.
The lieutenant said that when Cap
tain Bowen-Colthurst (who was found
guilty but insane at his trial for the
shooting) told him he was taking the
prisoners from the guard room to
shoot them, he immediately sent Lieu
tenant Wilson to the adjutant to report
on the action of Captain Bowen-Colthurst.
Just as Lieutenant Wilson returned
with an order instructing the captain
not to take the prisoners from the
guard room, the witness said, he heard
shots in the yard. Later going into
the yard he saw the prisoners, who had
been shot, lying on the ground.
EASTERN LEAGUE TO
END SEASON SEPT. 16.
There Had Been Some Talk of Closing
Labor Day.
New Haven, Conn., Sept, 1. Direc
tors of the Eastern Baseball " League,
at a special meeting which lasted until
one o'clock this morning, decided- to
continue the playing schedule until
September 16, the date officially set
for the ending of the season. There
had been some talk of ending the
schedule on Labor day.
The directors discussed, at consid
erable length, the threatened railroad
strike and planned to transport the
teams by automobile In case of strike
being declared.
President Murnane presided and all
the clubs were represented with the
exception of Lowell. It was voted
that the protection fee of $50 for terri
torial rights be deposited with the
president today.
"MATTY MclNTYRE, NOTED
JOCKEY, MEETS SUDDEN DEATH
Either Fell or Jumped From a Hotel
Window in Chicago.
Chicago, Aug. 31. Andrew Hockins,
who was killed when he fell or jump
ed from a hotel window here last
Monday, was identified today as "Mat
ty Mclntyre," under which name he
was a noted jockey. Not ong ago he
was ruled from the track at Hot
Springs.
A coroner's jury was unable to de
termine whether his death was due to
accident or suicide. His father, Mat
thew Hockins of Hastings, Ontario, is
said to be on his way here.
General Deficiency Bill Passes House.
Washington, Aug. 31. After two
days of debate, the general deficiency
appropriation bill, the last of the an
nual sujply measures, carrying ap
proximately $14,000,000, was passed to
day by the hvuse. It now goes to the
senate.
Henry Joseph Harpignies, of France,
noted painter, is dead.
E ports of general merchandise at
the port of New York Tuesday totalled
$10,608,240.
W. F. H. Koelsch, was elected pres
ident of the New Tork Credit Men's
Association.
Exports from Nottingham, Engand,
for the first six months of 1916 total
led $6,407,060.
President Wilson recommended the
promotion of Rear Admiral S. Benson
to the rank of admiral.
Chancellor von Bethman-Hcllweg
has left army headquarters for a con
ference with the Kaiser.
All tablets commemorating the
Kaiser's visits to Rome were removed
by the Italian Government.
The Swedish steamers Tor and Re-
slagen have been seized by a German
torpedo boat and takento a German
port.
The Pennsylvania Railrod Co., an
nounced that the quarterly dividend
will be paid on Aug. 31 to 90.772 stock
holders. The battleships of the Atlantic fleet
left Newport, R. I., for Chesapeake Bay
to engage in target practice beginning
Sept. 12.
The American schooner Lucia Port
er, from St. John, N. B., for Las
Palmas, was reported waterlogged and
abandoned.
Railway materials and equipment
valued at $75,000,000 were exported
from the United States in the year
ending Jun 30.
Picking of California fruit for east
ernshipment has been practically dis
continued because of the threatened
railroad strike.
The West Shore Rairoad has hired
between 600 and 900 strikebreakers to
replace the 300 freight handlers who
struck on Monday.
The Pennsylvania Railroad has ord
ered 10,000 blankets, which will be
used by men who will take the places
of striking trainmen.
The governing committee of the New
York Stock Exchange has rejected
the petition of the members for an ex
tra holiday on Saturday.
, The Lackawanna Railroad sent out
agents to all points with posters call
ing the attention of the traveling pub
lic to the impending strike.
Senator La Follett's primary cam
paign statement shows contributions
of $3,814, all from individuals, and ex
penditures thus far of $2,566.
Two million five hundred thousand
dollars in gold was received at the As
say Office from Canada for the ac
count of J. P. Morgan & Co,
The annual state convention of the
grand lodge of Connecticut, .Order of
Hurugari, was held at Hartford yester
day with 120 delegates present.
Mrs. Edward Purcell, of Brooklyn,
was struck and instantly killed by a
trolley car near Leonard's crossing,
between Saratoga and Balliston.
A contribution of $25,000 by Fritz''
Achellis, of New York, to complete
equipment of an American Red Cross
base hospital unit was announced.
Three murderers, Joseph E. Hanel,
of Brooklyn; Thomas Bambrlck of
Manhattan and Jan Trybus of Batavia,
N. Y., were electrocuted this morning.
A bill by Represntative Smith of
New York, authorizing private con
struction of a bridge across the Niaga
River at or near Buffalo passed the
house.
Surrogate Cohalan appointed Paul
H. Burns as temporary administrator
of the estate of George H. Huber, who
made a fortune of $1,000,000 in d'me
museums.
Members of the National Guard from
Maine, on duty at the Mexican border,
will assemble at Laredo, Tex., on Sept.
11 to vote in the Maine election on
that date. .
The body of Terrence Lyons, of New
York, who was drowned while cruis
ing up the Hudson in a motor boat,
was recovered off the Valvollne Oil
Co.'s pier, at Edgewater, N. J.
. Dr. D. S. Armstrong, of New York,
arrived In Massachusetts to search for
a town of about 100,000 population on
which to expend $150,000 for a scien
tific test in stamping out tuberculos
is. A committee from the American
Neutral Conference Committee of
New York asked President Wiison to
call a conference of neutral nationals
to offer mediation for bringing about
peace in Europe.
The refusal of the Italian govern
ment to accept a war order of $10,000
of woolen gloves manufactured by the
New Jersey Textile Corporation at
Montclair, has resulted in the filing of
a petition of involuntary bankruptcy
against the concern.
Thomas A.' Clancey of Milwaukee
was elected president of the Interna
tional Association of Fire Engineers
at the closing session of its convention
in Providence yesterday. Jacksonville,
Fla., was selected as the meeting place
for next years.
Gov. Fielder of New Jersey signed
a requisition for tho return to New
Jersey of Antonio Federici, under de
tention by the authorities at New
burgh, N. Y., who Is wanted In New
ark on the charge of killing Robert
J. Shannon, a policeman, at Cedar
Grove on Dec. 17, 1915.
OBITUARY.
John P. St. John.
Olathe, Kas., Aug. '31. John P. St.
John, a candidate for the presidency
on the prohibition ticket in 1S84, twice
governor of Kansas and one of the
most widely known temperance advo
cates in the United States, died here
tonight. He was S3 years old and had
been in failing health since a heat
prostration two months ago while on
a spea lrtng four.
Where Rumanian Troops Have Broken Through Moun
tains on Border of Transylvania
ACTIVE ALONG LINE OF LOWER CARPATHIANS
Russians are Marching Through Dobruta, Either to Strike Bul
garia North of Vara or to Aid the Rumanians Invading
Transylvania In Volhynia the Russians Have Repulsed
a German Attack Northwest of Kovel With Severe
Losses Bad Weather Retards Operations in France -
On All Fronts During the Month of August the Brit
ish Lost Approximately 128,000 Men, Killed Wouijded
and Missing.
Artillery continues active on all the
battle fronts of . Europe, but only on
the Transylvanian-Rumanian border
has the infantry been engaged to any
great extent. Bad weather hampers
operations in France; the Russians
and Austro-Germans on the eastern
line are resting; as are the entente al
lied forces and the armies of the cen
tral powers in Macedonia and the Aus
trians and the Italians have yet to re
new their desperate fighting of a few
weeks ago along the Isonzo.
Along the whole line of the lower
Carpathians, from the Iron Gate to the
border of Bukowina, the Rumanian
armies are reported unofficially to be
attacking the Austro-Hungarian forc
es. The defenders of Transylvania,
the same report says, have retired to
the second fortified line of their de
fenses. Northeast of Kronstadt, the Austro
Hungarlans have taken new positions
west of Csik Szereda on the Atula
river, after fighting with the Ruma
nians. This is admitted from Vien
na and shows that the troops of King
Ferdinand already have broken
through the mountains on the eastern
border of Transylvania as well as on
the south. Rumanian attacks east
of the Iron Gate on the Danube were
repulsed, Vienna says.
GERMAN STEAMER MARIE
RAN BRITISH BLOCKADE
Now Classed With the Emden and
Moewe Exciting Escapes.
Berlin, Aug. 31, by Wireless to
Tuckerton, N, J. A brief account of
the voyage of the German steamship
Marie, which reached the Dutch har
bor of Batavia on May 13, after es
caping the British blockade against
German East Africa, instead of tak
ing refuge in an African river, as then
reported, shows that the vessel left
Germany in January with a cargo of
supplies for the German forces fight
ing in East Africa. The Marie suc
cessfully ran the blockades in the
North Sea and at the mouth of the
Sudi River, and delivered her cargo
which, German officials say, enabled
the German soldiers to continue their
resistance against the forces of the
Entente Allies Invading the German
colony.
German naval officers say the expe
dition deserves to rank with the cruis
es of the commerce raiders Emden
and Moewe. The Marie was unarmed.
Three times she broke blockades es
tablished by warships of the Entente
Allies, and" on the last occasion she
was forced to run in darkness within
fifty yards of a British gunboat which
was patrolling the River Sudi.
During a several days' bombardment
by British cruisers and gunboats,
-when 1.130 shells were fired, the Marie
was hit 105 times. Nevertheless the
vessel was able to reach a neutral
harbor.
ROOSEVELT DELIVERS HI3
FIRST SPEECH CF CAMPAIGN.
Address Was Devoted Largely to an
Attack on the Administration.
Lewiston, Me., Aug. 31. Progressives
united with republicans in greeting
Theodore Roosevelt, who delivered here
tonight his first speech of the cam
paign in behalf of Charles Evans
Hughes, the republican candidate for
the presidency. A largo delegation of
republicans and progressives met him
in Portland and escorted him to this
city, where he reviewed an old-fashioned
torchlight procession in which
many former progressive leaders
marched. From the time he landed in
Boston today from the New York
steamer until he retired to his rooms
tonight the former president received
enthusiastic demonstrations. His ad
dress was devoted largely to an at
tack on the present administration and
to criticism of the hyphen.
FREIGHT SAILING VESSELS
WOULD TRANSPORT FOOD
In the Event of a Gen3ral Railroad
Strike Boston Fleet.
Boston, Aug. 31. William White,
who controls a considerable fleet of
coastwise . sailing vessels, announced
today that in the event of a general ,
railroad strike he would deflect his
vessels from the lumber and other
trades in which they are now engaged
and use them to relieve the food situa-,
tioh in this city. They would be sent
principally to Maine ports, he said, to
bring cargoes of potatoes, other vege
tables, fruits and general food products
from that state.
Extra Equipment For Guardsmen.
Washington. Aug. 31. National
guard cegiments and regular coa3t ar
tillery companies en route to or from
the border- have been ordered equipped
with extra supplies for the journey
against the possibility that a general
railway strike will delay their move
ment . ,
Russian troops are marching through
Dobrudja, but whether to strike at
Bulgaria north of Vara or to aid to
Rumanians invading Transylvania is
not known. Unofficially, it is reported
a Russian fleet had arrived at Con
stanza the principal Rumanian port
on the Black sea, and the Bulgarians
are said to be fearing a combined land
and sea attack on Varna. Rustchuk,
Bulgaria, on the Danube, opposite
Giurgevo, a report to Paris says, has
been occupied by the Rumanians.
The war offlces at Sofia, London and
Paris report nothing but artillery ac
tivity on the front in Cacedonia. In
Volhynia the Russians have repulsed
a German attack northwest of Kovel
with severe losses.
On the Somme front in northwest
France French forces have made pro
gress in local operations south of Es
tres and southwest of Soyecourt Wood,
North of the Somme there has been
no campaign. Canonading has been
principally on all tihe fronts in
France.
On all the fronts on which they are.
engaged, British forces during the
month of August lost approximately
128,000 men, killed, wounded and miss
ing. Appearing on the British casual
ty list for August are names of 4,711
officers and 123,234 men of thel
ranks. "
FEARS OF A RACE
RIOT AT LIMA, OHIO,
Where Mob Sought to Lynch a Negro
Wednesday Night.
Lima, Ohio, Aug. 81. Prosecuting
Attorney Orbha Barr of Allen county
tonight informally appealed to Forest
Tipton, secretary to Governor Willis
to send troops tothis city in an effort
to keep down a revival of the molj
spirit following the violence last nighf
growing out of an attempt to lyncfi
Charles Daniels, negro, who is alleged
to have assaulted Mrs. John Baber,
wife of a prominent Allen County
farmer.
It was understood thaj the state au
thorities at Columbus took no action
on Prosecutor Barr's request as onlji
the sheriff, mayor or county Judge li
authorized to make a formal request
fo rtroops.
Early this evening a large crowd
gathered in front of the county jail,
but there were no demonstrations. Fol
a time, however, some officials fear
ed a race riot might follow last
night's violence.
Sheriff Sherman Eley, who was
beaten and kicked last night until h
directed the mob to Ottawa, where ha
haa taken Daniels for safety, and
where he made his escape from th
angered crowd, returned to Lima late
today to learn that his little daughtei
had died from shock, caused last nighi
whe nthe mob forced the jail while
looking for the negro.
The negro tonight was in the Henry
County jafl at Napoleon, where he was
rushed last night while the mob was
en route from Lima to Ottawa to get
him.
THREATS OF STRIKE
OF INDUSTRIAL WORKMEN
Means Advocated to Secure Fair Trial
of Indicted Ore Strikers.
Virginia, Minn., Aug. 31. Threats of
a general strike of Industrial Work
ers of the World throughout the Uni
ted States, as a- means of forcing a
fair trial for the three members of the
I. W. W, indicted here yesterday by
the grand jury for murder in connec
tion with the death of Deputy Sheriff
James Myron, at BIwabik on July 8,
were made in telegrams sent today by
Elizabeth Gurley Flynn and Joseiph J.
Ettor to William D. Hayward, and
other prominent members of the 1.
W. W.
The telegrams say the indicted men
are innocent and that if they "fail to
secure justice, we count upon you
and all workers in America to open
jail doorse by closing mines and fac
tories." Thty call attention to the
fact that no true bills wert returned
against the "private gunmen" who
killed the strikers.
Movements of Steamships.
Bordeaux, Aug. 29. Arrived: steam
er La Touraine, New York; sailed:
steamer Chicago, New York.
Christiansand, Aug. 29. Arrived:
steamer Oscar II, New York.
Glasgod, Aug. 30. Arrived: steamer
Tuscania, New York. Sailed: 29th,
steamer Sardinian, Boston.
Liverpool, Aug. 30. Sailed: steamer
Cedric, New York.
New York, Aug. 31. Sailed: steamer
Baltic, Liverpool
Brakeman Crushed at Cedar Hill.
New tTiven, Conn., Aug. SI. Patrick
Dorsc-y, a brakeman on the New Haven
railroad, was crushed between two
freight cars in the Cedar Hill yards of
the railroad today and died shortly af
terwards. He wae about 30 years old
and lived in this city.
