First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui Comity Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. SEPTEMBER 1, 1916.
NUMBER 28.
a-
W.G.Ogg's Suicide Is
Shock To Friends
. Man Of Many High Qualities Former
Resident Of Maui Left No Word
To Explain Deed Held Respect
Of All
The tragic death of William O. Ogg,
manaRcr of the Hawaiian Sugar Com
pany's plantation at Tahaia. Hawaii,
news of which first reached here last
Friday, was the occasion of the deep
est regret on the part of the many
Maui residents who had known the de
ceased well. - The fact that the unfor
tunate man had died by his own act,
added to the Bhock. Though it is re
ported that the deceased had appeared
to worry over the effects of the dry
weather on the cane on the plantation,
the agents of th emcoan p,y
the agents of the company, C. Brewer
& Company, did not credit the idea
that business worry could have been
the cause of the fatal act. However,
no other possible cause has been pub
licly advanced, and so far as is known
no hint was given of the contemplated
act, nor written word left by the de
ceased to explain it.
Mr. Ogg shot himself with a 32 cal
iber automatic revolver through the
mouth, the bullet ranging upwards
through his brain, and death must
been almost instantaneous. The act
was probably committed on Monday
evening of last week, but the body
was not discovered until about noon
on Wednesday when Mrs. Ogg and Dr.
Alfred R. Thomas found it in a grove
of trees not far from the Half-Way
House, some miles above Fahala.
Left Home Suddenly
A report from the Big Island gives
some further details as follows:
The last that was seen of Mr. Ogg
was on Monday afternoon. He re
turned to his residence from the fields,
changed from his working clothes into
the garments he usually wore about
the house, and seemed about to remain
home for the evening. Befor having
dinner, however, at about five o'clock,
ho" made a remark regarding dry o
burning cane, and left the house, using
the company's Ford runabout automo
bile. Nothing further was Ifeard of
Mr .Ogg until his1)ody was discovered
by Mri, Ogg and Dr. Alfred R. Thomas
shortly before noon on Wednesday.
Apparently no anxiety was felt at
Mr. Ogg's absence from his home on
Monday evening or even on Tuesday,
one of the servants stating that Mrs.
Ogg informed her that her husband
had left for Hiio. It was not until
Wednesday that inquiries were first
made. Then Doctor Thomas and Mrs.
Ogg set out In Doctor Thomas' auto
mobile, and when passing the old pic-
(Continued on page 3.)
Only 90 days till the FIRST MAUI
COUNTY FAIR! No time to lose In
getting those flowers you will exhibit
started.
Wailuku Ladies Play
For Handsome Cups
Playing for a pair of handsome tro
phy cups, 12 Wailuku ladies are en
gaged in an interesting doubles ten
nis tournament. The cups are offer
ed by Wall & Dougherty. The tourn
ament Is not an elimination contest,
but each team will play two games
with every other team. One of these
games will be played upon the grass
court at the H. B. Penhallow resi
dence, and the other on the hard
court at the Mill . The team winning
the highest number of games will
take the trophies.
Four sets have thus far been play
ed off on the grass court as follows:
Mrs. W. S. Chillingworth and Miss
Olive Viiliers vs. Mrs. W. L. West,
and Mrs. V. Vetlesen, 6-4,4-6; vs.
Mrs. Harry Gerner and Miss Mitch
ell, , 6-3, 6-1 : vs. Miss Brook and Mrs.
Hoogs, 9-7, 6-3.
Mrs. Cowan and Mrs. Weight vs.
Mrs. Gesner and Miss Mitchell, 1-6,
36
Miss Myhand and Mrs. Alston have
not yet played.
Japanese Workman Killed
When Tunnel Roof Caves
Through the caving inof the roof of
a tunnel In which he was working, Ml
yasakl Senzo, aged 27, a gang foreman,
at work on a ditch line on the Hawai
ian Commercial and Sugar Company,
between l'aia and Hamakuapoko, was
crushed to death. The accident oc
curred on the afternoon of August 24.
The man was unmarried, and is said
to have had no near relatives in the
Islands.
SPECIAL RATES TO CIVIC
CONVENTION
V. L. Stevenson, secretary of the
Fifth civic convention ,to be held in
Hiio Sept. 21-25, has written that .spec
ial rates from Maui and return have
been fixed at $12.50 and that they are
available to anyone. There will be no
fixed number required, and tickets
will not be Mmited to delegates.
Pogue Not Seeking
Legislative Honors
Friends From Hana Start Ball Roll
ing But He Stops It Gomes
Paschoal Decides After All To
Try For Lower House Seat
W. F. rogue, denies that he aspires
to a high seat (or a low one either) In
the house of representatives of the
Hawaii legislature. And this in spite
of the fact, that his nominating petition
has been in circulation for the past
two weeks.
"I cant help that", he declared when
this fact was insisted upon, "It Isn't
any of my doing. I was surprised
when I saw in the Maui News that I
want to go to the legislature I don't.
Please say so for me."
There is no mistake that a petition
has been in circulation In Pogue's
name, and when last heard of it was
well signed up. Just who Is respons
ible for its existence, since Pogue him
self disclaims it. is not entirely cer
tain, though it is understood that some
of h's Hana admirers have been anx
ious that he should get into the race.
Paschoal In Race
On the other hand Manuel Gomes
Paschoal, the well known guardian of
the peace on the Puunene plantation,
who it was last week reported had de
cided not to run has again changed his
mind, and his nomination petition, du
ly signed, and accompanied by the req
uisite $10 fee, was deposited with the
territorial secretary this week.
THE FIRST MAUI COUNTY FAIR
will be a success, but it will be a big
ger success if YOU do your part.
Maui Guardsmen In
Night Sham Battle
Men Of 1st. Battalion Getting Vigor
ous Pratice Athletic Contests
Planned For Near Future Lack
Of Equipment A Handicap
As a result of a visit made to La
haina a week ago, by Major II. 13. Pen
hallow, Capt. F. A. Lufkin, Lt. Seubury
Short, Lt. Geo. Weight, and Sgt. Wetz.
ell ,U. S. A., there promises to be a
large amount of friendly rivalry in a
short time between the companies of
the 1st and 2nd Ilattalions of the 3rd
Regiment, N. G. H. This will be prob
ably be marked in matter of athletics.
A challenge for an indoor base-ball
game with one of the Wailuku com
panies has been made by the Pukolii
Company, and will probably take place
soon in the Wailuku armory.
The Wailuku companies are show
ing much interest in getting their
armory fitted up ,and already there
has been a little practice in the rifle
gallery, and on the volley ball court.
Last week, a practice night march
was executed by the 1st ISattnlion,
in which a small sham battle was
fought, Company A representing the
enemy and being supplied with a few
rounds of blank ammunition. The ex
ercises were of considerable interest
and the men all entered with zest
into the work. D Company formed the
advance guard, and the detachment
at the point of advance which located
and engaged the "enemy" was in
charge of Sgt. Frank Sylva. The ex
ercises were of much interest, and the
men entered with spirit into the work
in hand .
Target Practice Soon
Under direction of Capt. Whitehead,
the ranges in the sandhills are being
rapidly put Into shape, the 200, the
300 , and the 500 yard ranges be
ing now completed. All of tho com
panies of the 1st Battalion will soon be
hard at work perfecting themselves
in the use of the rifle.
Lack of equipment has been the
most serious handicap to progress in
the Maui companies. Only a small
part of the troops have uniforms, and
few of these are complete. ' And in
the matter of arms the deficiency Is
still worse. Although the men are
doing well considering this lack of
really necessary material, it is eer
tftin that much greater interest will be
isivv.vn when uniforms and rifles are
aviii'able for all companies.
For Preparednes Parade
In case the pre posed "Preparedness
Parade" in Honolulu is carried out, it
is very probable that Maui will be
well represented through the 3rd Reg
iment which is planning to send a
strong detachment down.
MAUI TEACHER LEAVES AS
WITNESS IN BOMB PLOT -H.
A. Wade, principal of the Haiku
school, was a departing passenger by
the Lurline, on Tuesday for San Fran
cisco, where hn goes as a witness in
connection with the big dynamiting
plot of some weeks since. He was in
San Francisco at the time of this out
rape ,aud narrowly escaped being a
victim of the explosion which killed or
maimed a sco" or more persons dur
ing the course of a big preparedness
parade. Mr. Wade, arrived home
about two week. ago.
Island Electric May
Lose Its Franchise
Public Utilities Commissien Will Insist
On Radical Changes Rates Must
Be Reduced Forbes Says Report
OnlnvestigationNotYetMadePublic
Honolulu, Aug. 30 Charles R. Forbes,
clfairman of the public utilities com
mission, recommended to that body
yesterday that unless a satisfactory
explanation be received within a reas
onable length of time of the business
and financial pecul'arities of the 1st
and Electric Company, of Maui, the
commission recommend to congress
the disfranchisement of the corporat
ion. "And in any event I will advise this
commission to compel the Island E
lectric Company to reduce its lighting
rates," the chairman added.
Forbes said that the people of Wai
luku and Kahului, Maui, are assessed
for lighting at a rale of twenty cents
a kilowatt hour, The rate of the Ha
waiian Electric in Honolulu is eight
cents a kilowatt hour, while the chair
man averted that smaller concerns,
such as the company at Waimca, which
Is even smal'er than the Island Elec
tric, are charging only fifteen cents.
ThcLahaina lee Company supplies
lighting juice to its customers at fif
teen cents and contemplates a reduct
ion to fen cents, while the Wnihi E
lectric dmpany ,in Kauai has a rate
of only fifteen cents.
"The Island Electric Company has
practically a monopoly on the business
in its district," said Forbes, "but
nevertheless, the citizens of Kahului
and Wailuku are entitled to lower
rates, and we should see that they get
them."
From comment made by the chair
man in the course of the discussion,
the impression was given that the
books of the Maui corporation are bad.
ly tangled. The commission's invest
igation of its affairs took place last
spring and a hearing was .held In that
county in May, but the commission's
report has not been made public yet.
Forbes said this has been held up in
definitely at the request of the com
pany's attorneys. More definite data
has been sought but Forbes said some
of it, much desired, has not been forth
coming. A communication was read
from J. C. Blair, superintendent of the
concern, saying he was not giving the
commission certain requested inform
ation on light and power rates because
the board had fa'led to supply him
with necessary regulation forms for
that purpose.
Word has been sent to R. E. llond,
president, who resides at Berkeley,
California, for data wantd by the
board, but that was only about a week
a,o and sufficient time has not elapsed
to get a reply.
If everybody expected to see a BIG
MAUI COUNTY FAIR and then left
it to others to do the work, there
would be no fair. Do your part.
Driver Killed When
Horse Wrecks Wagon
Kumakichi Akiama, driver of a de
livery wagon of the J. Onishi store, of
Kahului, was found unconscious on the
road last Friday evening, and died a
iHHit 7 o'clock the following evening
without having regained conscious
ness. Ho had doubtless been thrown
from his wagon when his horse took
flight and ran away, and this was the
interpretation of the coroner's jury
which investigated and passed upon
the case on Wednesday of this week.
The accident occurred on the Kah-ului-Puunene
road, on the hill Just
south of the Kahului racetrack. It
was first discovered by John MacLar-
en, who in passing along the road first
came upon the horse with broken har
ness feeding beside the road. A little
farther on he found the broken wag
on wedged against a tree by the road
side, and near it the unconscious form
of the driver. The injured man was
later taken to a Japanese hospital in
Wailuku, but nothing could be done
for him. Akiama was 46 years of age,
was married and is survived by a wife
and 4 children who live in Kahului.
Blair Wins Out With
Aid Of Good Handicap
In the fvmi finals of the singles ten.
nU tournament which has been en
at the Wailuku Mill Court for e. vei
al weeks, Iilair beat Weight, in lust
Sunday's play by score ti l, 6-0, 7 5.
On the same day Engle beat Chil
lingworth, 1-6, 6-4, 2 6, 6-4, 6-3.
On Tuesday afternoon last the fin
aTs between liluT ad Engle were
played off, Iilair being the winner
61, 6-3, 6-3.
Handicaps: Owe 15, Engle and
lloogs; Scratch, Townsend, Hansen,
Lufkin, Short, Weight, Chillingworth,
Cowan, Bevins. Receive 15, Hento,
All.st.on, Penhallow, Townsley, Iilair,
Case. Receive 30, West, Pharos.
Lack Of Pipe Delays
Reservoir At Olinda
Freight Congestion At San Francisco
Now Blamed Material For, Wai
luku Waterworks Did Not Arrive
By lurline
Although a portion of the pipe nec
essary for the completion of the Wai-lukti-iCahului
waterworks was listed
on the ship's manifest, the Matson
liner Ltliiine, which arrived at Kah
ului last Friday .failed to put any of
the shipment ashore. As a conse
quence the Howell Engineering Com
pany is sin unable to finish up the
important -job which has been hang
ing fire for weeks. Whether the
pipe was put. ashore at Honolulu, or
whether it is still on the wharves at
Sun Francisco, is something which
has not as yet been ascertained.
Olinda Reservoir Also Delayed
Contractor James C .Foss, Jr., who
has the. contract from the loan fund
commission for the construction of
the big Olinda reservoir ,has also had
his work halted almost completely
for more than a month for lack of
pipe and other materials which the
recent stevedores' strike and the
congestion of the steel mills in the
east have held up. A good deal of
the pipe needed must be laid under
the cini before the main construct
ion can proceed, and as a conse
quence the project is about at a
standstill.
Are you doing your part for the
MAUI COUNTY FAIR? The time Is
getting short.
Employer Is Fined
By Accident Board
Others Called On To Explain Maui
Commissioners Not Satisfied With
Some Policies Believe They Still
Do Not Satisfy Law Field Home
From Coast
From now on it is likely to prove ex
pensive to employers of labor in the
county who fail to see that their . em
ployees are protected by compensation
insurance against accidents. The in
dustrial accident board for the county
of Maui is showing a disposition to
make it. unpleasant and unprofitable
to those who try to evade the law in
this respect.
At a meeting of the body held on
Tuesday afternoon three alleged offen
ders were on the carpet, and one of
them was fined. This was M. Tomoki
yo, a Wailuku building contractor, who
had been ordered at a previous meet
ing to take out insurance, but who had
been slow in complying. He was fined
as provided by the law, at the rate of
$1 per day for each of his employees,
for 1 day.
G. Tanida, who runs a general store
in Wailuku, was before the board for
non-compliance with the law, but on
his promise to take out insurance im
mediately, he was given time to do so.
Ah Nim, a Wailuku laundryman,
who claims that the three men in his
shop are partners and not employees,
is to have bis claim investigated by
the county attorney.
Policies Still Unsatisfactory
The Maui board has been dissatis
fied with the form of insurance policy
which the Employer's Liability Assu
rance Corporation is issuing, and so
far have declined to accept any un
qualifiedly; however at the Tuesday
meeting a communication from this
concern stated that they were issuing
endorsement forms which would an
swer the objections of the Board. Thft
board is also backing up County Attor
ney Bevins in h'.s contention that the
policy submitted by the United States
Fidelity & Guaranty Company is not
acceptable under the Workmen's Corn
pensation Law.
Commissioner W. H. Field, who has
been on the Coast, was present for the
first time in several meetings of the
Board. He has recently been re-commissioned
by Governor Pinkham for 5
ears. The other members present at
Tusday's meeting were Chairman W.
A. McKay, Will J. Cooper, and George
Weight. W. L. Decoto, of Lahaina,
was obtained on business.
SALE ORDERED TO DISSOLVE
PARTNERSHIP
Acting upon the recommendation of
V. C. Schot nberg, commissioner in the
suit, of J. F .Camara, vs. Antone Ma
ria, Judife Kdings yesterday issued an
order of sale, by which a Cadillac au
toomobile owned jointly by the parties
to the case will be sold at public sale
on Sept. 9. The defendant, Maria, is
also to get, through the commission
er's recommendation, the sum of
$132.50, as being his share of moneys
advanced by him to the partnership,
and he is also to receive one-half of
the proceeds of the sale of the auto
mobile. The case has been pending
for some time, being the outcome of a
dispute between two partners in the
settling of their affairs.
EIGHT-HOUR LAW MAY
PREVEOT BIG STRIKE
Congress May Rush Such A Measure Through
Before Monday And Avert Commercial Catastro
phe Rumania Rushing Into Austria And Has
Cut Communication Of Germans With Turkey
Greece Likely To Get Into Fight Soon
HONOLULU, Sept. 1 Pacific Mail steamers not admitted to en
gage in coastwise trade. Rill opens way for vessels chartered or sold
by government. 1914 emergency act is eliminated.
House draft gives them the privilege if facilities were held inade
quate. Water and sewer systems require total bond issue. Plan backed by
Ad Club is to use all money from bonds to farther these plans. City Hall
and Roads relegated in scheme. Chamber of Commerce will be asked
to co-operate.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 1 Congress, by direction of President,'
moves to pass 8-hour measure which will avert strike. Shippers lay
blame on brotherhoods. 30,000 militia ordered from border by secre
tary of war. Says pending strike has not caused the move.
LIMA, Ohio, Sept.l Mob rule leads to death of child. Sheriff
James Elcy manages to keep negro prisoners from mob but his little
daughter dies from seeing abuse of her father by mob. Sister of sheriff
who tried to come to his aid, also ill, and in critical condition from brui
ses when she interfered. Sheriff is badly beaten and cut up but lynch
ing party was finally persuaded to let law take its course. Negro was
accused of assaulting a white woman.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 1 Allies' black list arouses congress to
drastic steps. President has been authorized to retaliate.
Federal officials may hold up foreign ships. Maritime revenue
measures are whip America will hold over interference .
PARIS , Sept. 1 Rumanians drive back Austria's first line and
Austrians have to seek new positions. Clash with Bulgars is believed
certain. Rumania's minister in Sofia has asked for his passports.
LONDON, Sept. 1 Rumanians close German back-door. Dan
ube route to Constantinople shut in face of Teuton powers . King of
Bulgars plans to abdicate in favor of Crown Prince Boris.
TOKIO, Sept. 1 Russia floats big loan with Japanese. 35,000,000.
TOKIO, Sept. l--Cholera spreading fast in Tokio district.
ATHENS, Aug. 31 Developments here in diplomatic circles in
dicate that Greece will abandon her policy of neutrality within 48 hours.
Staff officers who have been on leave recalled to their commands. The
armies are being made ready for action. The king, ministry, and resi
dent ministers are exceedingly active. ,
PARIS, Aug. 31 Reported here Rumanians occupied town of Rus
tchuk, Bulgaria, just across the Danube, and easily reached from sev
eral Rumanian railroad centers.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31 Strike called off if 8-hour day law is
passed by Congress. If it is enacted by Saturday night brotherhood rep
resentatives say there will be sufficient justification for calling off strike.
According to vote of 400,000 railroad men answering strike order sent
out by their central committee, men are to quit at 7 A. M. Monday morn
ing, unless there is favorable settlement of controversy in meantime.
President Wilson held several conferences this morning .first at White
House, and later at Capitol. Here he saw House and senate democratic
leaders.
CHICAGO, Aug. 31 Santa Fe line hopes to keep at least 1 train
going each way.
PEKING, Aug. 31 Replying to inquiries concerning clash of Chi
nese and Japanese troops at Cheng Chia Tun, Mongolia, premier said to
day that Japanese fired first.
HONOLULU,Atig.31 Claims he was stripped and given whip
ping, boy from industrial school shows marks on his body. Was seht
back to school by Judge Ashford. Sister sent application for parole.
Live stock rate means raise of $1 a head. Inter-Island new tariff
is increase of 99 cents on cattle below 600 pounds.
HONOLULU, Aug. 31 Charles R. Forbes, superintendent of pub
lic works, is seriously ill with acute appendicitis. Disease is complicated
with throat trouble which may be diplheria.
Aviatrix squad is to be formed. Women of Honolulu take interest
in flying. .
Supervisor Larsen arrested by Policeman Aea, charged with break
ing traffic ordinance. He will answer charge today.
Cornell Club meets at University Club for dinner to honor its de
partingpresident, Capt. S. W. Phisterer.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31 Congress and country prepare to cope
with threatened calamity. Legislators seek to avert threatened tie-up
of railroads with conciliatory measures. National guardsmen are with
drawn from border to home states. Nation is in panic and food famine
is feared. Strike is due to blind arrogance of brotherhood leaders.
Grain and feed markets will be paralyzed by railroad tie-up. Fruit
growers will lose heavily. Commerce body in San Francisco cables
President Wilson opposing his averting strike.
Congress remove ban on coastwise shipping bill. Foreign-built
vessels under American registry may enter American domestic trade.
They must accept cargoes under law. Effect of measure will be to
stimulate traffic between Hawaii and coast.
PARIS, Aug. 31 Rumanians will demand instant evacuation of
Serbia. Bucharest intends sending ultimatum to Sofia calling on Bul
gars to abandon positions they hold in Balkan states.
Vienna admits new foe has crossed mountains . King Ferdinand
reported to be 25 miles within Hungarian border, threatening important
city of Kronstadt.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31 Rumanian minister formally requests
United States to take charge of Rumanian interests in Austria.
CHICAGO, Aug. 30 Nation faces meat shortage in event of
strike, backers kept small live stock on hand.
NEW YORK ,Aug. 30 Police prepared to take control of food
supply here.
PARIS, Aug. 30 Rumanians force entrench and occupy 2 im
portant cities in Transylvania. Bulgarians engaged in battle today with
Greeks in Macedonia and seized town of Trama. Greek Albanian con
tingent disembarked here today and is ready to join Allies.
HONOLULU, Aug. 30 Way opened for harmony in Bourbon
ranks. Governor's conference with McCandless faction committee may
bring fusion. Though thrown down twice he watchfully waits organi
zation now anxious that chief executive shall help in campaign.
(Continued on
Page Three.)
