THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Generally fair to-day and to-morrow;
light southerly winds.
Hlghett temperature yesterday, 83; lowest, 63.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 6.
IT SHINES FOP. ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 1.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1916. Coptrrlpht, 1)16, by the Sun PrMing and PublltMng Atsoctatlon.
rtVP rrMT omm New nowhere
VJISEj KjElPi 1 Jersey City and Newark. J TWO CENTS.
T. R. IN HIS FIRST 0N mmHBiACKim
RUMANIANS,
MD ANGER OF GREAT RAILWAY TIE-UP PASSING;
HUGHES SPEECH
AROUSES MAINE
BULGARIA NOW,
TAKE RUSTCHUK
TRAINMEN AGREE TO ADAMSON'S 8 HOUR BILL;
FOOD PRICES BOOSTED ON STRIKE EXCUSE
Ship and Hcvonuc Bill Clauses
First Step in Policy of
Administration.
Thousands at Lewiston
Cheer Roosevelt in Old
Time Rally.
CALLS HYPHENATES
GUILTY OF "TREASON"'
Blames "Wilson's Lack of
Leadership for Anti
Aineriean Activities.
COUNTRY "AT WAR"'
DESPITE PEACE CRY
Condemns Administ rat ions
Policy in Mexico and De
mands Preparedness.
I.CWUTO.V. Me., Aug. SI. Republi
canism, militant and rampant, cursed
oer this end of Maine to-night. An
tlroscoggtn county w.vi swept from Its
i Democratic moorings and In the In-
Isplratlon of Theodore ltoosevett's prcs
i nee roared ltclf hoarse, as any gooe!
I Republican county would, for Amer-
llcanlsm and Hughes and Fairbanks.
More than 3,300 men and women.
squeezed into the City Hall auditorium '
in this city to hear Koosovelt. About j
iu.i'uu more iiueu me limpiro ineairci
pnd the Union Square Theatre, where
overflow meetings were held. Some '
ollur thousands had to bo content with
heerlng Itoosevelt on his arrival and
on his way from one meeting plice to
another.
An Old Time Halls-.
There Is nothing comparable to the
enthusiasm of a small city on Its big '
night, and this was Lewlston's bltf night.
Fireworks, lurching club, the screech
of brass bands, the Hare of a torvhllght
para Jo and streets lined with the city's
entire population, yelling and cheering
II this was part of Lewlston's recep
tion of the former President,
Dooming of rannon announced the ar
rival of the trolley car that brought him
up from Portland. It was tlw signal
for rushes In various directions. Ono
crowd went to catch the first look at
Hoosevelt ; others hurried to the lie Witt I
Hotel, where he was to dine: still others
took time by tho forelock and made sure
of seats in tho gallcriees of the audi- I
torlum. ;
It was not simply Androscoggin coun- j
ly mat was out in force. All the six
counties In the Second Congress district,
of which l-e-wisloti is the centre, con
tributed their enthusiastic Republican
delegations. Marching clubs came up
from Portland and down from Bangor.
Tloosevelt. IiN face tanned, hopped out
of his automobile at the Ue Witt Hotel
and througli a lano of cheering men and
women went upstairs to dinner. This
he took with an old Maine woods guide,
"lilll" Sewall by name, who, later as a
man who had known itoosevelt for forty
jears, had a scat on the auditorium
Tag?.
Teddy, We're With Yob.
If Lewiston has fire regulations they
wsrn violated at the meeting, but It
would have required a strong tire force
to keep back the clamoring crowd.
Itoosevelt, It was clear, enjoyed the push
ing and the cheering and the cries of
"Teddy. Teddy, we're with you !"
"Teddy, the brotherhood are here!" a
man sang out as tho Colonel was about
to begin his speech.
The former President turned to hint,
"liully"' he said, and that meant more
cheering.
Oxford county sent a delegation bear
ing a stuffed bear cub. The man carry
ing It did not know exactly where to
place It.
"Ilrlng It up here," Itoosevelt said, and
the Teddy bear was planted on the plat
form at his fret
In the rush into the hall a slip of a
girl was carried almost to the platform,
where she wan caught In a Jam. Itoose
velt left hlt seat t open a way for her
and she got a chair right under the
speaker's eje, Mushing with gratification
while the croud applauded.
These were a few of the Incidents of
what was a reilly tine meeting. Itoose
velt himself said It was .a. "peach" of a
meeting.
Appeals ns an American.
Col. itoosevelt said In part :
"I come hero to Maine to advocate the
election of Charles K. Hughes ns Presi
dent of tho United Slates, and the elec
tion of a Senate ami Houso of Itcpre
ntit.ttlves to support him, and to give
nj.'iio of tho reasons why In my Judg
ment It would be a grave misfortune
for the people of tho United .Slates to
reelect Mr, Wilson.
'I make no merely partisan appeal. I
ask the support of all good citizens for
tut cause, I ask the support or all good
Americans. And I not merely ask, but
o'-nan'J as a matter or rigni, tnat every
'ien voting this year shall consider
itiu iiioitlon at Issue from the standpoint
'' America, and not from the standpoint
' any other nation,
'Tho root Idea of American citizenship,
1 1!.: necessary prerequisite for patriotic
rvi-o at home and for service to man
MM at latgc. Is that there shall het In
Mr citizenship no dual allegiance, There
mint 1j no divided loyalty between this
tjuntry and tho country fiom which any
t nur citizens, or the ancestors of any
? our citizens, have come. Tho policy
! tiie Tinted States must lei shaped with
view to two conditions only: first, with
vttw to tho honor and Interest of tho
J rued States, and second, with a view
w 1 Interest of the world as u whole.
"It Is therefore our high and solemn
iiay both to prepare our own strength
t to guaranten our own safety and
lo td ticat every foreign nation, in any
Continued on fourth Page.
Vvasiiinoton', Aug. 31. Commercial
retaliation upon the Allies, especially
Kngland, for the blacklist and other In
terference with American trade, ha 4 Isten
decided upon by tho State D-vaitment
and Congress leaders as the best means
to back up American notes. The ship
plng bill ar.d the landing revenue bill
contain provisions that ate the first tvp
In this policy.
The shipping bill amendment, which
lias passed both houses, as a retaliation
f e i the Secretary of the Treasury. Mr.
McAdoo, discretionary power to refuse
clearance papers to all ships rc!Jutg to
tako American mercrmndlse on grounds
other than lack of spico. Yh's an.ir.d
ment Is designed to rca-it allied msjM
which decllno to accept the goods of
American blacklisted flrim.
The revenue bill amendment proposed
by Senator James, which the Senate
adopted unanimously to-day, gives
President Wilson discretionary power
to prohibit tho Importation Into this
eoutitry of products which cannot be
Imported Into foreign countries from the
United States.
This Is aimed at tho British embarg)
restricting the shipment of American
tobacco, raid to be a Ilrltlsh attempt to
depreciate Its price and then monopolize
Its sale. This embargo eliminates Hol
land, the Scandinavian Powers and the
Central Empires from the market.
GERMANY ORDERS
PRISON REPRISALS
Says itussiu Bent and Starved
Naval Captives Held in
Siberia.
Berlix (by wireless to Fayvllle).
Aug. 31. Officers and sailors of the
Jtusslan navy who are prisoners In
Germany." says the Overseas News
Agency, "have been brought Into a re
prisal camp because for more than a
ear German naval officers and sailors
In Siberia have been treated by the
Russians not as members of the navy
but as common criminal-.
"The llusjlan otllctrs and sailors," the
news agency say, "will be treated ex
actly as are the German prisoners In
itutsla until the ltusslan Government
decides to t;cat the Germans as sailors
who did their duty for their country,
"The Ilusslan actions are said to have
been caused by the friendly advices of
llnglund, who declared that the Germans
were not regular sailors, but pirates.
All diplomatic negotiations were without
result. The Itussian General Staff even
pretended that proved facts were untrue,
and this caused the German Govern
ment to adopt counter measures."
TelU uf Tortured Prisoners.
The .WiriMeufjehe Allgrmcine Zel
flirty, under the heading. "Hell In Bus
sla," prints to-day sensational details of
the alleged tortures suffered by prisoners
of war in Ituxsla.
1 1 charges that the Russians abused their
prisoners, compelling them to work long
hours without sufficient food or cloth
ing. In the winter, with the temperature
e0 degrees below zero. It Is said, prison
ers. Including the sick, were compelled
to work In the open when barefooted
and dressed In rags until arms and
legs were frozen.
Hhcumatlsm, typhoid, tuberculosis and
other diseases, the account continues,
have caused the death of thousands of
prisoners and medical aid Is entirely In
sufficient. At Urgum 3,000 prisoners are
reported to have died of Uphold In a
short time.
Victims Are Driven Insane.
Many of the prisoners, the newspaper
says, become Insane. One Instance Is
cited of ZJu Insane prisoners who are
reported to have been floggci' and driven
into a room large enough for only 100,
containing no bedding, after which the
doors and windows were boarded.
They were left there twenty-six hours
without food or water," the account goes
on. "When the room was opened many
of the prisoners fainted ar.d the other
were whipped. Other prisoners were con
fined for several days at a time In deep,
damp pits, und were struck over the he id
with Iron bars. Sick prisoners have been
transported In cattle cars to hospitals,
where they received such poor attention
that, according to reports of physicians,
tho death rate was 00 per cent.
"Tho punishment of prisoners Is so
barbarous that some Itussian soldiers
have refuted to carry them out.
TROOPS ASKED FOR OHIO MOB.
Hare Hloie Feared at I. Ira
Sheriff Safe In Hospital.
I.tsiA, Ohio.. Aug. 31. Prosecutor O.
llarr haB called upon Gov. Frank n.
Willis to send Stato militia to Lima at
once to help handle threatened race
rljts as an outgrowth of the failure e..
tenlay if a mob to lynch Charles Dan
iel, a negro accused of attacking Mrs.
John llabcr.
Saloons were ordered closed at 6
o'click. All negroes have been warned
to stay off the streets, and scores of
them are leaving tho city, Fifty men
have been sworn In as deputies, and the
entire county anil city forces have been
called for emergency duty.
Sheriff Sherman lllcy, who was at
tacked by a mob last night because he
had spirited the negro away, Is In a
hospital with two broken ribs. Daniels
Is sate In the Toledo Jail.
.Sheriff Kley's llttlo daughter died to
day as a msult f fright when the mob
broke into the jail. Mrs. Cecil Kephart,
F.ley'w sister-in-law, Is In a serious con
dltlon also after being roughly handled.
14 DAY REPRIEVE FOR O'NEILL.
Convicted aa Slayer of Policeman
.vr Incidence Found.
Alimnt, Aug. 31, Gov, Whitman to
day granted a two weeks reprieve for
Thomas Humbrlck, alias Thomas O'Neill,
who was to have died to-morrow morn
ing at Sing Sing for tho murder of Po
liceman George Dapping on September
?4, 1915. The stay was granted on
recommendation of Police Commissioner
Woods, on the ground of newly dlscov
c id evidence.
Policeman Dapping was killed at an out
ing of the McManUH Association nt Man
hattan Casino and another policeman
v.'flH rerlously wounded,
Joseph Hanel, who murdered Mrs,
Julia Hellner In Flntbush, and Pan Try
bus, convicted of killing Kchucnbcrg In
Pat via, N. Y,, will die to-morrow iimrn-!rb'.
Invading Army Crosses
Danube and Occupies Key
City to Railroad.
OPENS WAY TO BLACK
SEA PORT AND SOFIA
Austrians, Alarmed, to Give
Up 15.000 Square Miles
in Transylvania.
RUSSIANS ON WAY
THROUGH RUMANIA
Greece Expected in War in
Ht Hours Remobiliza
tion Order Awaited.
Paws, Aug. 31. Bulgaria ns well as
Hungary has been Invaded by Ruman
ian troops. The Rumanians have
crossed the Danube nnd occupied the
city uf Rustchuk. Russian troops be
gan on Tuesday to pass south through
Rumania. , It Is nnnounced offlcially.
The Aiistro-Hungnrians arc finding
It Impossible to withstand the Ruman
ian advance nnd have decided to sur
render to tho Invaders almost nil of
Transylvania before making a stand.
This will give the Rumanians posses
sion of some 15,000 square miles of
territory, un area greater than that
of Ilelglum.
There Is great alarm In all the Teu
tonic capitals at the sudden and suc
cessful thrust of Rumanian armies
through five mountain ptses Into Hun
gary. A council of war Is to assemble
shortly at V'enna. at which Kaiser Wll
helm, the Kmperor Francis Joseph urn!
Czar Ferdinand of Uulgarla will be
present.
Demands Turkey's Aid.
Despatches from llerlln via London
say that the Bulgarian and Turkish
declarations of war acaltist Rumania
will be delivered eimult.ineouly. No
word of a llulgar declaration has ben
received hero, and n Rome despatch
says that Uulgarla has Insisted that un
less 200.000 Turkish troop aro sent to
help her she will nut declare war. There
arc reports that Uulgarla wants a sep
arate peace.
A despatch from Amsterdam says that
the Rumanian Minister. it Sofia asked for
his passports Wednesday evening, thus
severing dlploniitlc relations between
Rumania and Uulgarla
Possession of Rustchuk glvei the Ru
manians an Important rallioad Junction,
a city of some 35,000 Inhabitants. From
It they may advance east to the lllack
Sea port of Varna or southwest to
Sofia, the Bulgarian capital,
A Russian army of unknown strrngth
has been for peveral das passing
through the Dohrudja, the eastern
province of Rumania, on the lllack Sea
for a second Invasion of Uulgarla, Tho
Russian commander reached Kucha rest
to-day and Is tn see King Ferdinand to
morrow. Russian warships have ar
rive,! at Constanta, a Rumanian port on
the lllack Sei, and It Is feared in Uul
garla that this means an attack upon
the Bulgarian lllack Sea port of Varna
by land and water.
Filiating on 4011 .Mile Front.
Fighting on the whole 400 mile Tr.m
sylvanian front betw'cn the Rumanian
armies and the retr;itlng Aunro-llun-garlans
has become general, according to
the correspondent of the finnf of Geneva
at the Austrian headquarter He says
the Austrians are retreating to a sec
ondary defence line.
The seml-ofllclal German Overseas
News Agency also 1ieaks of the tieces
slty of relinquishing half of Transyl
vania to the Rumanians. It says.
"Austro-Hungarlau newspapers em
phasize the fac; that tho new war thea
tre resulting from Runnnia's entry Into
the conflict Is tllu.it, il on an Indented
frontier 371' miles long, while a straight
line drawn between both ?nds of tho line
from Dorna Vatra to Orsova Is only 100
miles.
"The newspapers also have seen that
the defensive lines ultuated at Important
strategic points do not coincide every
where with the frontier. It has been
planned therefore to withdraw the Aui,-tro-iluugaiian
troops Into stronglv pre
pared positions, where outflanking and
enveloping movements of the enemy may
bu observed and where thu terrain Is fa
vorable to the Teuton defenders. This
method stood the test In thu Italian the
atre of war."
Teutons to Shorten Line.
The 1C0 mile line from Orsova to
Dorna Valra would bo a strong one to
defend, orsova, lit Hungary, Is Just
across thu lion GateH of the Danube
from Turnu Severln, In Rumania, the
westernmost point of the latter country,
The Rumanians are attacking stubbornly
there. Just south of this point lies the
northern Serbian border. Dorna Vatra
Is northeast of Orsova ut the end of a
diagonal line, and Is in the iluknnina
Jqst north of the boundary between
that province, and TraiiHjivanla.
For over 100 miles of Its extent the
Austro-Hungarlau line probably would
rest upon tho River Maros, which winds
down from it source not far from Dorna
Vatra, und passes uhoul fifty miles from
Orsova. The gap between Is tilled In
part by the Temes River, and backed
by the fortified city of Temesvar, Rail
roads run along the Maros shore, and
back of this Una would bo a range of
mountains, making u strong natural de
fensive position similar to thn position
tho Germans retreated to In Franco af
ter their defeat nt the Mame.
King Ferdinand has Issued thn fol
lowing order of the day, addressed to
the army, despatches from Bucharest
ray:
"I have called upon you who nro
stout hearted and full of hope. Thn
spirits of the great Rumanian chieftains,
Coiillnucd on Thtrd Past,
Managers and Union Lead
ers in 9 Hour Plea to Sen
ate Committee.
GARRETS0N, IN TEARS,
STATES MEN'S CASE
Representative of 800 U. S.
Commerce Bodies Urges
Inquiry First.
Washington, Aug. 31. Rival claim
ants In the railroad strike controversy
for nine hours to-day spoke before the
Senate Commltlee on Interstate Com
merce. Judge Robert S. Lovett, V.
1. Thorn. Kllsha Lee and J. W. Sheehan
spoko for the railway managers and A,
R. Garrctson, W. I!. Lee, William S.
Stone, Samuel dumpers and W, S.
Carter spoke for the brotherhoods, and
there was an array of orators repre
senting shippers and the public.
Out of the nine hours argument two
facts stood clearly. In the estimation
, of all uffectcd parties Congress alone
! can prevent a strike, and the public
eventually will foot the bill for an
'eight hour day' with ten hours pay
t which the trainmen elenund. The rail
raod executives and the shippers In
sisted that tho strike order nt least
should bo postponed and the four
j brotherhood chiefs declared with equal
vehemence It could not be.
All sides apparently were more or
less satislled wttn the hearing, which
had given them an opportunity to lay
their cases before the iibli'.
A (Iranian,- scene in wnicli A. If. .,ar
retson, spokesman for the trainmen and
president of the Older of Rvllivay ri -duclurs,
was the central figure, tuoughi
th hearing to a cl.inax to-night shortly
before tho taking of tcM,mcny closed.
I'ulon Men llvaded Question.
Throughout the day members of thj
committee at (Utter en t tlnisa had MJiAii
the four brotherhood chiefs If they were
powerless to stop the strike sivc by re
porting a sutlsfastory ti,iiient to
their men. The question l iv.ir.Miiv vvti
evaded, the replies be ng that Mr Gat
retson would explain the t.tuv oi bef 're
the hearing closed.
For almost an hour Mr. Garretson
kept the crowd laughing wall quaint ex
pressions and humorous stories. When
he had only thiee minutes left In whkh
to speak his binther president urged
him to answer the question of power to
postpone a strike. He suddenly became
serious, stood erect, gazed at the lelllng
for a moment and then began to speak
"We have I wen asked," he said
slowly, "If we have the power to defer
this stiikc. It has U-en called fur next
Monday, i have the )wwer to defer that
date In my organization, but In tho
other organizations the situation Is dlf
ferent. Th heads of the other brother
hoods cannot call back the strike order.
"Rut here Is where 1 stand For ear
niv men have trusted me. When I stood
before the President the ott.cr nlsht and
h! asked me If this could be dune I
found my Gethsemane. To the men who
have made me the recipient of all these
things 1 owe my first obligation. I can
put It off, but ir I did without gaining a
satisfactory settlement there would llneer
in the minds of those who have trusted
me thoughts of treachery, if I put it
off across a fair record of thirty years
would be written the word 'Traitor.'"
Garrctson llrlirn lo Tears.
For a moment the witness paused and I
seemed tn peer far out over the heads of
the crowd. Then tears came Into his .
eves and rolled down his checks. He'
started to speak, but choked. Appar-1
eutly summoning all his strength he I
threw out his arms, lowered Ills ecs to
the crowd and In a low voice asked, 'Van .
I face It?" and dropped Into his chair.
Not a person In the room moved for
several secjnds. Mr. Garretson relieved i
the situation by rising from his chair and
leaving the chamber.
F.lllott II. Goodwin, secretary of the
Chamber "f Commerce of the United
States, asked Congress t" postinme en
actment of the Mi Ike remedial legisla
tion pending an Investigation and to pass
legislation making It unlawful to strike
or to declaro a lockout pending result oi ,
the Investigation. Mr. Goodwin saw
the recommendation ho submitted was
the result of a lefeieiidum by 00 rom
merclal bodies, mcmbeis of the national
organization and representative of the
sentiment of over 3,u00,000 binlnesi me-i
The National Manufacturers Associa
tion was represented by James A. Rmery,
who declared the Fiesldent had the
power already to direct tho Attorney
General to enjoin a strike and that h"
ought to act upon It. Mr. Thorn, general
counsel of the Southern Railway, maibi
un eloquent appeal lo the members of
the committee against coercion by the
four heads of brotherhoods who were
making demands nnd submitting the al
ternative of a strike on Monday If their
demands arc not granted.
Rotables Attend the Hearing.
The hearing took place In the Senate
otllcc building III one of the big con
ference rooms, Among thu prominent
railroad men present were Fairfax Har
rison of the Southern, i L. Il.irde, gen
eral manager of tho New Haven: Sain
ii,. . or. Ii1t.nl of the Pi'Tinsvivaula :
Frederick Underwood, president of tho
1 Krle ; Daniel Wlllard, president of tho
I Baltimore and Ohio; II. W. McMaster of
the Wheeling and Luke Krle. L. W. Kald
win, general manager of the Central
Georgia : W. l Slddon, vice-president of
the Seaboard Air Line, and u. Mayer,
vice-presiuenv m ..uio. u,,u
Western.
In closing ills argument before the
committee. Mr. Garrctson was severe on
the railroad managers. Ho suggested
the situation reminded him of railroad
days In Mexico.
"Occasionally wo ran over and Killed
a row und Immediately tho skies became
dotted with vultures ready to pick the
carcass' said the speaker. "In this caso
the public is tho carcass and tho ship-
Continued oh Second Pap.
Flagrant Efforts to Gouge
Public Reported to
Authorities.
PRICE OF FOWL UP
0 CENTS OVER NIGHT
Garden Truck, Not. Carried
by Railroads, at Prohibi
tive Figure.
Flagrant Instances of tfTorta by I
prodtico nnd commission men and
truck farmers to gouge tho public
with exorbitant prices, using the
threatened railroad strlko ns an cx-,
cuse, were reported yesterday to j
Joseph J. llartlgan, Commissioner of.
Weights and Measures. It was suld
that In practically every case a greedy
dcslro to take advantage of the situa
tion and derive enormous profits at the
expense of the consumer was respon
sible for the boosts in prices.
To checkmate the dealers engaging
In this practice the Commissioner ad
vocated In ii letter to Frank L. How
ling, acting Mayor, that If the strike
goes forward with no concessions In
respect to tho transportation of food
supplies a city commission be formed
to tlx a standard of prices on foodstuffs
and that legislation bo enacted by the
Stato to protect tho consumer against
extortion ite prices.
Mr llartlgan learned on reliable au
thority that lf.0 tarload.s of poultiv
t.non chickens to the car, had been held
ut" by shippers ti the Penn) Ivama.
Ilrlx and Lickawanim jard.s and that
o.i lohla tl,e pr.vc !..,,'. !..',pc.'. f;.,i IS
cents a pound lo i'l cents. Th sole
purpose of the delay. It was s.inl, was
to hoot the price before the poultry
reached the consumer.
(iardrn Track Goes I' p.
Other Instances of rales In anticipa
tion of the strike were found In the
prkua o(gu-dot)ruduce.ulch advajiuad
10 per cent, within twent-four hours
at thn Harlem, Wult.thutit nnd Gai.e
voort markets, whcie Long island fann
ers 11 their ti .i'-k.
"This was without llie el.rhtrst ju !i
flcatlou and was hardly les trail a
crime." the Commissioner sai l
Dairy products at the Wallabottt
.Market reuhed new high records But
ter went to 3.",', cents, 7'4 eents above
the quotation of last vear m this t ine
and the highest value In the last twe it.v
tlve year- The wholesale pn-i , f rites
of the ilassDKatl'in most generally used
was 3S cents, o-io cent higher thtn the
day before and 1'J cents above the !ri e
of a )wir ago.
Wholesale meat dealers In Newark
slaited quoting higher prices yesterday.
They averng.il about half a cent a liund
to t'nir regular customers, but to others
their prices were more sharply advanced
I lie Increases are oniy :i faint h ut i
of what Is to come. It was said ia-t I
night. There was said to bo an under
standing that a general advnti'? w,iM
begin to-day If the chances of a rct
tleinent of the strike still appear 1 re
mote. Commissioner llartlgan made his sug-'
getlori for u price living commission
contingent upon the failure to secuie any ,
delay In the Mrlke. He recommended j
that Acting Major Dowllng appeal to I
Prcsldert Wilson, the ralltoad executives
and the brotherhoods for a truce, while
the jnoposals of Wilson for a settlement
aie receiving more thorough considera
tion, i
Would Mifcgunril Food.
He urged that If the truce was denied
a request should he directed lo the op
posing Interests asking for arrangement
by which the existing schedule of fieight
train service transporting fresh meat, ,
fresh vegetables, fresh milk and coal
might lemaln uninterrupted
Both icquests falling, the Cotumls-j
sloner expressed the belief that an ex-
traordlnaiy session of the Board of,
Aldermen should be called to consider
the necessity of creating a commission to
regulate the prices of foodstuffs,
Coincident with Mr. llartlgan'. move
against a widespread raise In prices or,
foodstuffs. District Attorney Swann re- 1
uuesteil the Grand Jury to start an In- ,
vestlgatlotl Into the rise 111 price of live j
poultry from 17 cents to :! cents a
pound. He said he had acted on the
petition of the 1". deration of Hebicvv
Retail Kosher Butclu m Aoelat!ou of
America, tho members of which nlleur '
that the price of poultry has been arbi
trarily boosted by the Live Poultrymen's
Association. The butchers declare this
association is In teallty a trust.
Kstlmates , varied yesterday on the
quantity of foodstuffs now In New Yolk
city and the lensth of time they would
last were all sources of supply cut off.
John J. Dillon. Commissioner of Foods
and Markets, thought the supply would
last three weeks.
A leading produce man said, however,
that the visible supply of butter, eggs
and cheese would last no more than ten
days.
Institutions Stock Up.
City and private Institutions, hotels
and restaurant nre making preparations
to get food supplies In large quantities In
advance of a complete, tleup on the rail
roads. By to-morrow afternoon the Depart
ment of Correction and the Department
of Public Charities will have stored
away 1140,000 worth of provisions to
meet any possible situation, Fifteen
hundred patients and employees and
r,,000 prisoners and keepers In the penal
Institutions will have to bo fed. Sup
plies for a mouth will be on hand by
.Monday, the ditto set for tho strlko of
the railway employee.
One hundred and eighty cans of milk
from Sussex county, New Jersey, will bo
supplied dally to thn fifteen Institutions
under the care of the Charities Depart
ment by means of automobile service in
Newhurgh on the Hudson, Boats of the
Charities Department will bring the
milk from New-burgh to Manhattan,
Milk for tho Department of Conci-llo'i
will bo transported by uutomublln from
Orango i-ounty, New York, to Newhurgh
und by thn department boat Correction
from there to Manhattan.
TEXT OF 8 HOUR BILL O. K.'D
B Y WILSON TO A VER T STRIKE
Congress Measure Fixes December 1, 1916, for Starting
Now System Pro Rata Pay for Overtime
Commission to Study Change.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31 This is the bill which President Wilson
has accepted as tt curtailment of his programme, the passage of which by
Congress probably will avert the nationwide strike of 400,000 men sched
uled for no.t Monday. The measure was drawn by Representative W. C.
Adamson of Georgia, chairman of the House Committee on Interstate
Commerce, and reads us follows:
UK IT EXACTED by the Senate and House of Representatives
that:
SECTIOX 1 Beginning December 1, 1916, eight hour (hall in
contracts for labor and service be deemed a day's work and the
measure or standard of a day's work for the purpose of reckoning
the compensation of all employees who are now or may hereafter be
employed by any common carrier or by any railroad which is subject
to the provisions of the act of February 1, 1887, entitled "An Act to
Regulate Commerce." ns amended, and who arc now or may here
after be actually engaged in any capacity in the operation of trains
used for the transportation of persons or property on railroads from
any State or Territory of the United States or the District of Colum
bia to any other State or Territory of the United States or the Dis
trict of Columbia, or from one place in a tet ritory to another place
in the same territory, or from any place in the United States to an
adjacent foreign country, or from nny place in the United States
through a foreign country to any other place in the United States.
SKCTIOX '-' That the President shall appoint a commission of
three which shall obierve the operation and effects of the institution
of the eight hour standard work day, as above denned, and the facts
and conditions affecting the relations between such common carriers
and employees during a period of not less than six months nor more
than nine months, in the discretion of the commission, and within
thirty days thereafter such commission shall report its findings to
the President and Congress; that each member of the commission
created under the provisions of this act shall receive compensation
as may be fixed by the President, The sum of ifllii.OOO. or so much
thereof a mny be necessary, be and hereby is appropriated out of
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated for the neces
sary and proper expenses incurred in connection with the work of
such commission, including per diem travelling expenses of members
and employees, and rent, furniture, otlke lixtures and supplies, books,
salaries and other necessary expenses, the same to be approved by
the chairman of said commission and audited by the proper account
ing otlicer of the Treasury.
SECTION ." That pending the report of the commission herein
provided nnd for a period of thirty days thereafter the compensation
of railway employees subject to this act for a standard eight hour
workday shall not be reduced below the present standard day's wage
"nntt for all necessary time in excess of eight hours such employees
shall be paid at a rate not less than a pro rata rate for such standard
eight hour work day.
SECTIOX 4 That any person violating nnv provision of this
act shall bo guilty of a misdemeanor ami upon conviction shall be
lined not less than $100 and not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not
to exceed one year, or both.
8 HR. LAW ILLEGAL,
R. R. HEADS CONTEND
Koa.ls Will I'iirlit to Dt'ft-iil U.
Halo MnliiiMi De
clares. Chicago, Aug. 31. Pus-age by Con-1
grcss of the Adamson compromise eight
hour bill piohuhly would postpone a
trainmen's strike, but It would not settle
the question, presidents of three Western
railroads said to. nlsht.
"The railroads would tako no preclpl
tato action In event the lull were
passed," said Jlute Ilolden. president of j
the Chicago, Burlington and l.'uiucy, who '
was spokesman forth..- railway man.igeis
at th.lc I cunt vonfetence with 1 'resi
dent Wilson, "but we certainly will not
allow uu Illegal law to stand if we can
help It.
"It is my understanding that the Su
preme e'ourt of the I'nited States ha
held recently, In two cases, that th"
Congress of the t'ultrd Slates has abso.
lulel.v no power to n vruges. That Is
what the Adamson bill amounts to, ac
cording to my understand!!!!; If It Is
paed it wouid only poMpono the issue"
Similar sentiments hfid evpressed by
11. P ltljik). pieslilent of the Atchison,
Topck.i ami Santa l'e. and II. K. Km lie,
president of the Motion lllpley addid.
"The Adamson compromise Is not sat
isfactory t" the rallioads. Congress has
no DKlit to pass such a mensuie"
Itepresentatlv es of uuorgaiitreil rail
way empIo.vees here to.ulghl telegraphed
Ilepreseiitntlv e W i Adamson at Wash
ington urging tliat bo Include In his
eight hour law provision!, for an elcht
hour day for the linoigaiilzeil employees
also. The telegram said uuoigatiUcd
employee weie working from nine to
eighteen hours d uly.
SUBMARINE L-6 LAUNCHED.
lilts Mini llnnk ut I.oiik llencli, Cal.i I
Pulled (Iff Togs. '
I.ONU Bc.viit, C.i I, Aug. .11 --The!
Culled States- submarine L-ii, the Hist ,
underwater boat to be liilt in Southern
California, was launchfjl heie tu-day at
the yanlH of the California Shipbuilding
CnmiMtiy
Mra W 11, Munroe of I,os Angeles,
wife of Lieut. Munroe, l S. N chlis-'
tencd the vessel. After leaviii the way. .
the submarine struck a mud bank and
vviiB held there at an angle of 4." degrees
until pulled off by tugs. OIIUalH of tlm
shipbuilding plant said the vessel was in
no way damaged,
PAYS $500,000 A YEAR FOR SHIP
Boston Company Charters Steamer
Suffolk for live Years.
Boston, Auk. SI, Thn steamer Suf
folk, owned by the Coattwlse Tiali.
poiiatlon Company of this city, has been
chartered fur live caih in a Philadel
phia concei n ut nu annual talu of 5,'nn',
000. It wiiK announced lo-da).
Tho rate s bcllevel by marine brokers
heie to bo tile highest on record for a
viesel of her sin- over such a teiiu of
cars. The Suffolk will bo employed In
cairylng coal from Philadelphia to South
Aineilcn, returning with manganese ore,
NEW HOPE CHECKS
FREIGHT EMBARGOES
l.iii'kiiwtiiinn'.s Onlor IWimtimI:
.U'i'My (Vnti'il mid Lcliiiih
Vn Hoy Insiip None.
New hopefulness that thx railroad !
strike may be avert.il brought Into the1
offices of the roads here an Immediate r,-,
action. The first effect of the relief was
contained In the announcement made by '
P. J. l'lynn, vl e.presldent and freight
traffic manager of the I-icknwanna. who I
ordered the deferment of the embargo
order. It had been p'anned lo make the i
order effective last i.lght. but Its opera
tion was put over until to-night at the I
earliest .
Following swiftly nu this umr word
from Topcka. Kan, that the Santa Ke
had lifted its 1-nibnrgo totally. Still In
the same spirit of optimism neither the
Lehigh Valley nor the Central Itallroad
of New .letsiy thought It necessary yes
terday to lsue geneial embaigo order.
It is epeete. that before noon to-day
there will be a lelavatloi of the strict or
ders Imposed by the gieater number of
the roads for tho shipment of ficlght.
COTTON SHORT; PRICE JUMPS.
hnrp Ailvnnce Here on Prediction
of (lnl ll,s,oo,OO0 llnlr.
Ai'i I..IK crop of cotton til ear
will li't e..eed 1 1 .Itiii.oii.i bales, a -cording
t the olhi lul foiecast of the liepart
ment of Auiicultiite, published (ser
ila T'ie Had,' was. In a measure, pre
pared by the repel ts and estimates of
private obsciv.rs, but on the receipt of
.visti nlav 's news the Maple advanced
sharp!., some positions gaining as much
as I.! a huh on the New York Cation
llvehanco Their was a stampede of
snort interests seeking cover.
Lver.MliIng wiong that can happen
lo cotton at th s season of the ear
seems t have stiuck It drought here.
Hoods t.aie. iack of fertiliser, the boll
weevil, oatuplllais .i ml ec.t-sive tem
peratures Y Merday's iov eminent estimate com
pare with l'.',!ili.ilu bales forecast on
July la, and H.Urtii.inlO bale forecast
on June LT, List year's actual produc
tiui was ,lfl,s:o bales; that of 1914
was lil.LU.I'llli biles; of 191.1, 1 4,1 ;G,S40,
and of I'.'l.', 1.1. TOIL 121 hahs.
RUNAWAY MOTOR KILLS MAN.
.lumps mi MdcMnlL When Crankedi
I'lim linker lo 'Wall,
When Hairy Lima, chauffeur, of
Kldrlduo street, cranked Ills employer's
uuiomcbllo. In front of .'.4 Kldrldge
stieet last night, it leaped over the curb
and Herons' the nulewalk, crushing My
man Silverblatt, a baker, between the
hood and the wall of his shop, lie died
In a few minute.
Ilvperts of tho Police Department as
serted the car Is In perfect working
oider, i Lima was held a prisoner,
charged with homicide. Tho automobile
bclniKs to l.co llanion of 1617 sixty,
ninth sttcet, lliouklyn. Mrs. Henrietta
llarilson and two other inembcn of tho
family were In thn car at tho Pine and
they requited medical attendance when
they collapsed from fright.
House Measure With Thretl
Proposals to Be Voted On
at 1:30 To-day.
GAG RULE TO LI3IIT
DEBATE IN CONGRESS;
Senate Republicans, in Ugly,
3rood, May Block Tts
Passage There.
WILSON IN WARNING
TO B110THEK HOODS
Effect of Legislation Will
Bo to Postpone Labor
Crisis 10. Mont lis
Vv"asiii.nuton Aug. 31.- -T i-nmiit tho
shadow of the thri-.itcncd railroad
strlko Is pas-ine.
This vv.i.r tho opinion hrro at a late
hour after I'ttsidcnt W.l.-on at.it tho
Administration leadets of both lituiss
and Senate had approved a p'an of
legislative action which will bo ac
ceptable to this honl of tho four
brotherhoods and to vvliKh t! rillroad
executives, however ni.ict.in', vvi'l
submit.
The plan coiissn in a kit providing
for tho local etub;ihtin nt of an eight
hour d iy for train cniptoyirs with pto
rata piy in-tc.id of t me and a l .ilt
for oveitiiii" nr. 1 1 Ine citation of a
comtilL-Mou t' study the effect of tho
legislation upon Hit railroad'
This Administration iiie,isii-, un. In
troduced in the House to-du) by Ciia r
rn.in V. C. Adinison of the House I it
terstato Coiimicrco Committee, it
will" be put tlirougirTo. morrow under u
gag rule limiting debito and scttin a
fixed hour for the final vo e.
By nightfall It will be in : . ' ar , ,e
the Senate. WheiMer it w 'A t i
by that body om miii-Jh , , t
enable the PrutheilpM I h ad- 'o ' .
t.ie strike set for too in i M r , a
question.
l'ttl reeling In Hie
The Senate piob.tbly M."
with the House Tn- 1 ', ..
genera. ly at-ieed t s !. it
lire. Muting t e It. publi. i
an iiglv feel.ng ,.,.u! from
the c.i-e. a feel. mi: t ' t t"
been pined in the hiumli r
of fompl.v.iig with tli" itc'ii.i
men that te'l fi leg sl.it.
v.itliln a spe lied I me .
countrv be Mibjc ted to I .e .
tufferini: ,lf e-elirt.ll l.li.e...
Semite,
I
its
I'
1
f
1
I
t
and
Th! lesentmeii! may biem oir w ten
the Aduitusir.itloii bill',, "p for ill.
ctislon on r-uttirduy. Tin ic ,i
b.litv , lt.it it ., I. .
itS'-
1
block the liassai:,. of the b." for ., t ,
"I believe," .-aid one of t' minority
leadei to-day, "that the Set ate hn-t
more sif-ies;te. t Hum to sul t t , ib,
ltti.,,i.!u ,.r tK..-.t !, .... i. M . .... ..
of prctipltatlrg a nation il catastrophe."
T-U. t ......i
tn,- ,tu 'Mi,t,-i i ., , i-ii ir.ea ne s
tlr.ly s.itl-f.n i.ey to the ,'i,
leaders It sign.iht, ilm ,,ei
capitulation of t.i. l'i,-.d,ni at d
Adii lulstr.ltam to the tleiii .'il- if
ell.
Mood
de'n
th
t'
trainmen. The President, I. ose.f ,tpp( .
ently has abandoned the me 4Mi: e- t , o .
able to the roads cLialutd t leu,.
latlve plan h" laid before Co, git m 1
fpcciil message.
t'nsat Isfnetort m Bonds.
To the rall oads .1 i, ! - ,t , r ,
but the eccIit,Vis (ike i, ,ti i ,
they have no othei , h ,. v i ,it i , ,t,w i ,
the decree of Ciingltf-
The practical effe,'! .,f the It g sl ,l1i,,i
that Congress will pas ,. p,,, .
t one the strike i- t.j. f.,r i, n.it- Vr
the end of tl.it v"'"'l ft- Pre.-,. If ts
comms.-!on w.ll be i, iy i t up,, it ,u,,l
thetrMs may ifjr mer t1, ,i-'i,u if
adjusting wages to thu lew i ight holi
day. Th" ponr that Hie l-ol'.. .i s hav..
eer.cd has b, en a s1.. . t mai
membriH of emigre- fli. , i r w mi
loiigei any doubt that Pits .. w 1 i
was tin ier the d 'iii'M.it.on the u:.,et
hnad h.ef- Ham Hi veiv mug of
tile eor,tlovtfl I' Is.nnMd 1 o lever
made any re il effo-t to . t i- ti n t
men lo arbitrate t dtfet, , -. 1 it de
- hired his .-spoils,,! ot th, r etu:,,-, so
far as ih eight hour div was top erncd,
at the very lirl tue. ' ng vi i i.ierii
When the rai'ioad piesdei,:- !efucil
in Vie'd and MCI. II the pi t pa- of
nib.lratiott the priv:h nt .n ,..ui,-ed a
piogr.vuuic of lOKi-I.it w i Ii 1 .i,,
fiatuies pleasing to ti . -ainud',
notably a compu'.Mirv inv. it, it'on ot
filtuio thieatei.ed s'riUce ,r I ... "ion l y
Co.igress Itr favor ,.f a.lv.r td i.i i
Wilton's Wittering llriioiineeil.
As soon at. nn.oti I in, r.i'srd 't veqeo
against c'ltaln ! aim, if i:;h tun.
gramme the inte-.esis ,.f t ir- i.illit, uli
were again t' town ovei . j.r I an u 4
unly the President Inn C, nn-s- has 1 c'.v
vlelded In giving thn biotbei I -ods w at
they want and the i.iil:,.ul- g ' 1 x 1 1,
except minor concession t., tlm t M
ami a half overtrne , n rg,
There is another le.llllle . ' II 1 t legi
latlve pioi;ramm that is . , i.,ng 1 oils
concern tn niinv conscrv 1 v-s 1. c,ui
gives, They po til out that Pies dent
Wilson we.,t to Congres ,1, n iw h ilgm
fraukly that he bad no data , 1 win. h 1 ,
base nu opinion in ii g.ird I" 'lie , n 1 1 i
the eight Imiir l 1 . At kn 1, dung 11,
lark of Information, he vvamd a' . pe
opinion Horn radio id in, -id. m- an I
called upon Congress t 1.1 t a I iw nf
far reaching Imp u tan.e, in elicits of
which ale to be ItiM-HKiti I ' rep
Conservative men b 1 .1 c ie, . le
nmmce this ns tin- n i -y 1 t
legislative propo il ml Thn 1
were some I ,'te 1 ighl that
many meml"' 1' ' n'i pull'
illarlv in tho Siini'e .it, id the pend
ing bill 10 an fin t;c y mouMiiru
drafted or the piirpo e t nerMng dlb-
