CLOS1WG HEW YORK STOCKS PAGR 14.
Wqt Etenitia
From Pmm to Home
Within the Hour"
???? Net rirralnllon, Noitk of JUT.
I?l?. Dally imut, ???><? y. M..-17IV
WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1916.-EIGHTEEN PAGES.
? CONSTANT!
REPORTED TO HAVE
ABDICATEDJHRONE
Crown Prince to Rule, With
Venizelos Acting as the
Power Behind.
REBELLION BREAKS
OUT IN MACEDONIA
Regular Troop* Surrender to the j
Revolutionary Com
mittee.
i
WILL GOVERN PROVINCE
General Mobilization of Hellenese
May Be Proclaimed?National
Turmoil Since Rumania
Entered War.
KING CONSTASTIJIB.
LONDON, September i, 2:15]
p in.?King Constantine of Greece1
! .as abdicated, according to the
!British official press representa-.
tive at Saloniki. He says the ab
dication was in favor of the crown
prince, with Venizelos as the
power behind the throne. The
new policy, he reports, will be t?
^ork w ith the entente allies.
The beginning of a revolution
in Macedonia is reported in a
Keuter-dispatch filed yesterday at
Saloniki. Fighting occurred . in
Saloniki, the correspondent adds,
but serious trouble was prevented
by the intervention of soldiers of
the entente allies.
The surrender of several Greek
garrisons to a revolutionary com
mittee, which has taken over the
administration of part of Greek
Macedonia, also is reported, the
chief of these being Saloniki, j
\ odena and Fort Little Kara-!
burun.
Crown Prince of Liberal Mind.
Crown Prince George of Greece, whose
accession to the throne is reported, has!
been described as a man of liberal mind, !
In true sympathy with the aspirations of
the Greek people. It has been assumed
that if King: Constantine's policy of non- ;
interference in the war shouM lead to his ,
disappearance from power the crown
prince would be the man to whom the pro- ?
entente party would turn.
Prince George was born July 19, 1890.
He is unmarried. His engagement to :
Princess Elizabeth of Rumania was an
nounced in 1914. but owing to the war the
we lding was postponed.
The crown prince has kept in the back
ground during the-war. When the en
tente troops landed at Saloniki last year
the king sent the crown prince to take
charge of the Greek forces there. It was
reported several months ago that the
prince had been sent on a mission to the j
German and Austrian emperors.
Greek Regulars Surrounded.
A later dispatch to Reuter's Telegram
Company regarding revolutionary ac- :
tlvities in Macedonia says that when
the volunteers ascertained the regulars
were unwilling to co-operate with them
they surrounded the barracks in the
night, cut the water main and electric i
light wires and shut otf food supplies. |
A detachment of sixty regulars at-!
tempted to break its way out to obtain
supplies. Its surrender was demanded,
and when the regulars refused the vol
unteers fired shots in the air. The reg
ulars replied with a volley, whereupon
the volunteers opened fire on them,
compelling them to return to the bar
racks.
The allied commander. Gen. Sarrail
Intervened to prevent further blood
shed. Altogether, according to the lat
est reports, three men were killed and
. one gendarme and two volunteers were
wounded.
French Take Over Barracks.
The soldiers refused to treat with the
revolutionists, but accepted allied me
dia t iota. It was agreed that the soldiers
should\ b* disarmed and interned at
Camp zeitinlek. outside the city. The
officers Were permitted to retain their
swords, pledging themselves not to in
terfere with the revolutionists. The
barracks were handed over to the
French. It is understood a number of
the officers anda considerable propor
tion of the menl sympathize with the
revolutionary movement and will now
Join it. /
The entire gafrrison at Vodena went
(Continued on Ninth TUT,
NO MINORITY PLAN
TO SETTLE STRIKE
Republican Conference Finally
Decides to Offer No
Legislation.
Following: a meeting of a committee
of republican senators appointed at a
conference of republican leaders to
consider and to draw up a substitute
for the democratic eight-hour law,
Senator Brandegee, chairman of the
committee, announced that it h^l been
decided not to offer a substitute. In
dividual republican senators will olTer
any amendments they see fit.
"There will be no attempt on the part
of the republicans to delay a vote on the
bill," said Senator Brandegee. "So far
as the republican senators are concerned,
I feel sure that a vote may be had by to
morrow night."
Committee in Session.
After a twenty-minute session the
committee of six republicans was in
formed that the majority plan is to
rush through the bills it has framed at
once and to stay In session all night If
necessary.
Senators on the copimittee said it
would be impossible to draft any leg
islation of the kind desired in a few
hours.
The members of the committee were:
Senators Brandegee, Cummins, Weeks,
Sterling, Nelson and Borah.
Two-Hour Conference.
The republican conference lasted nearly
two hours. The general impression was
that there would be no concerted oppo
sition to the passage of such legislation
as the President and democratic majority
desires. There probably will be speeches
In which senators will give their views
of the question and of the negotiations
which have been going on in Washing
ton for two weeks.
Many prominent republican senators
were evidently angry, convinced that
th? democrats intend to put through the
eight-hour day bill at once, caring little
whether legislation which would help
the railroads pay the added cost or pro
viding for a commission to take care of
future disputes is put on the statute
books at this session. There were no
open charges of bad faith, but senators
expressed this opinion to friends.
The belief of the republican senators
Is that, if the democrats put through
the eight-hour law only, by tomorrow
night, and the strike is called off, then
the rest of the program in relation to
the railroads will be called off until
next December by the democrats, and
perhaps forever.
Democrats Want to Leave.
"Nothing could keep the democrats
in Washington after the strike had
been called off and the revenue bill is
passed," said one senator as he left the
republican conference. "The President
knows this Just as well as we do. He
knows, too, that the House leaders have
informed him that the House will not
pass anything but the proposed eight
hour law."
"So far as I am concerned," one of
them said, "I do not intend to-oppose
the passage of the Adamson bill. That's
all the democrats propose to put
thr*|igh. Let them do it and the re
sponsibility wifl be theirs and not
ours."
UTILITIES COMMISSION
? TO DECIDE GAS RATE
Price Fixed by Congress to Obtain
Unless Found Unfair to Pub
lic or Producer.
The 75-cent gas rate ordered by Con
gress may be increased or lowered by
the public utilities commission if that
body, after sufficient investigation, de
termines the rate to be unfair to either
the public or the company.
This .was made clear by officials of
the commission today. They stated
that the commission will continue Its
work of valuation of the properties of
the gas companies for rate-making pur
poses.
The provision in the District appropria
tion bill in regard to gas charges provides
that "nothing herein contained shall be
construed as limiting or taking away any
of the powers now vested by law in the
public utilities commission of the Dis
trict of Columbia."
"This simply means," said an official of
the commission today, "that the congres
sional rate will go into effect October 1
and continue in force until it is changed
by either Congress or the utilities com
mission.
"The commission will order a higher or
lower rate if such action is called for by
the showing of the valuation."
TWO SLAYERS EXECUTED.
Joseph Hanel and Jan Tybus Pay
Penalty in Sing Sing Prison.
| OSSINING, N. Y., September 1.?Two
men were put to death in the electric
chair in Sing Sing prison today. For
the murder of Mrs. Julia Heilner, a
Hrooklyn woman, who was his employ
er. Joseph Hanel. thirty-flv?> years old,
was executed shortly before 6 o'clock.
Three minutes later Jan Tybus paid
the penalty for killing Jacob Scheen
berg. a junk dealer, in Katavla.
A third man. Thomas Bambrick, con
I victed of killing a policeman in New
! York, also was to have been executed,
! but Gov. Whitman granted him a stay
j upon representations that new evidence
; had been discovered which should en
j title him to a new trial.
Villa Again Reported Active.
I COLt'MBl'S. M.. September 1.?Ru
mors were current here today that
* Kranclaco Villa, with 200 followers, la
heading toward Namiquipa, from the
| vicinity of Satevo. Mexico. Reports of
'activity of Carrania troops in the vl
} cinity of territory occupied by the
American punitive expedition ia re
garded here as likely material to be
i presented to the American-Mexican
conference scheduled to begin at Ports
; mouth, N. H.. September S.
Plan More Stringent Pharmacy Laws
PHILADELPHIA. S?j???-mt>er 1.?Plans
for more stringent qualifications for
admission to the practice of pharmacy
and better reciprocal arrangements be
tween the boards of the different states
were discussed at today's session of the
National Association of Board* of
Pharmacy. Representatives of thirty
three state board* are present.
D.C. BILL SIGNED
BY THE PRESIDENT
Last of Appropriation Legisla
tion to Be Approved. Except
Deficiency Measure.
CONSIDERED LIBERAL
BY DISTRICT HEADS
Practically Every Department Is
Given Increase and Many New
Projects Will Be Started.
Frsident Wilson today signed the Dis- I
trict of Columbia appropriation bill
and it is now law. The continuing ap- |
propriations for the District govern
ment expired last night and there
would have been no money to run af
fairs until the measure was signed. The
usual method of the White House, upon
receipt of appropriation or other bilis,
is to refer them to the appropriate de
partments for thorough inspection. Be
cause of the emergency the District
Commissioners anticipated this coufse
and went over the bill carefully yester
day and last night, notifying the White j
House that it was all right.
The District appropriation bill is the
last of the appropriation measures to
receive the approval of the President,
except the deficiency bill, now before
Congress. The latter bill will be signed
next week upon the reutrn of the Pres
ident from Hodgenville, Ky., where he
will be Monday.
Bill Considered Liberal.
District officials today were jubilant
over the passage by Congress and the
signing by the President of what they i
consider the most liberal appropriation j
bill ever enacted for the development of
the National Capital.
With practically every department
i given increased appropriations, the
j local government today seemed to take
J on new life. Preparations went forward
?everywhere for starting work on im
| provements authorized, and apparently
the impression was general that the
District is entering upon the banner
year of its history.
Commissioner Brownlow summed up
the attitude of the Commissioners when j
he said: "The act provides for progress
I along material and moral lines to a j
greater extent than any appropriation j
legislation of any other year."
The total amount appropriated is ap
proximately $1,000,000 greater than the i
largest allowance of any previous ye?r. j
Streets, schools and correctional insti
tutions fare particularly well, while
the police and Are departments also are
liberally provided for.
Retirement and Pensions.
Not only are these departments given
an adequate retirement and * pension
system, but the Are department is to
be permitted to buy nine pieces of mo
tor apparatus, costing $56,000, which is
the greatest advance made in any one
year toward 'motorization of the de
partment. Salaries of police officers are
raised to the standard maintained by
other cities; a new stationhouse in the
Brookland section is provided for, and
amalgamation of the crossing police
with .the metropolitan force also au
thorized.
Streets received the largest increases.
Compared with a maximum appropria- I
tion heretofore of about $200,000 for !
suburban roads, the act this year fur- j
nishes $440,160 for improvements of j
?this character.
Among the principal suburban
thoroughfares to be developed are four
arterial travelwayw, including Rhode
Island avenue from South Dakota ave
nue to the District line, New. Hamp
shire avenue from Grant Circle to Con- [
cord avenue, 16th street from Monte- |
zuma street to Alaska avenue, includ- j
in'g construction of a viaduct across |
Military road at a cost of $90,000, and I
Massachusetts avenue from Nebraska !
avenue to the District line.
Within the fire limits the principal '
street improvements will comprise wid- !
ening of 14th street between Pennsyl- j
j vania avenue and F street from forty- J
| six to seventy feet, paving of 7th street !
j from R street to Florida avenue and of
? B street from 7th to 9th streets.
Money for Schools.
With respect to schools, the act pro
vides the necessary teachers and staff
for opening the new Central High and
Dunbar High schools this fall. It
places funds at the disposal of the
Commissioners for beginning work on
the new Eastern High School, author
izes the building of a ninety-thousand
dollar school between 18th, 20th, New
ton and Monroe streets northeast and
eight-room additions to the Elizabeth
V. Brown School, in Chevy Chase, and
the Petworth School. It also appropri
ates for an addition to the Burrville
Sclrooi and for the purchase of ground
for playground purposes for twelve
schools.
Liberal appropriations for Washing
ton's charitable, penal and correctional
institutions carried in the bill will
make for extensive development in this
direction during the year. The out
standing item is for the building of
the reformatory for long-term prison
ers at Lorton, Va., near the workhouse.
Preliminary work on this improvement
already has been commenced.
The act also provides for the building
of an up-to-date municipal lodging house
at a cost of $40,000, an improvement the
Commissioners have been asking for an
nually for several years, ami the con
struction of an additional building at
the National Training School for Girls,
to be occupied by white girls.
Reclamation of Flats.
The act makes available $200,000 for
Anacostia flats reclamation work instead
of the $100,000 generally appropriated
for this purpose; changes the name of
the Government Hospital for the Insane
to St. Elibameth Hospital; authorizes the
building of a central garage for the care
of District government passenger cars;
increases the salaries of the five Judges
of the Municipal ;Court from $2,500 to
$3,000 per year; provides for assess
> ments every two years instead of trien
DAY IK CONGRESS.
Senate i
Met at 10 a.m. and recessed
until 1 p.m.
House i
Met at 11 a.m.
Interstate commerce committee
favorably reported Adamson
eight-hour bill, and rules com
mittee adopted a special rule for
vote by 4:30 p.m. today.
If .
#
nially, and also authorizes the building |
of an additional shed at the farmers' j
produce market, which will increase the
accommodations of the market by 50
per cent.
Salary increases have been allowed in
the cases of a number of underpaid em
ployes: several departments have been
given motor conveyances, and the needs
of the government generally have been
looked after in a comprehensive man
ner. Extensive sewer improvements
also are authorized.
The Commissioners will now go to
work on the preparation of estimates
for the needs of the District during the
fiscal year that begins next July. The
estimates will be prepared and sub
mitted to the Secretary of the Treasury
before October 15.
"White Wings'' Made Happy
by Increased Pay Provision
of D. C. Appropriation Bill
No class of municipal operatives was
made happier by the passage of the
District appropriation bill than the
nearly 400 employes composing the
"white w*ing" force. After three years'
effort to obtain increased wages, the
street sweepers are to have their pay
raised from $1.50 to $1.75 per day,#large
ly through the efforts of President Wil
son, the District Commissioners and
William McK. Clayton of the Federa
tion of Citizens' Associations.
Tnr. Clayton first interested the Presi
dent in the proposition of more ade
quate pay for "white wings," with the j
result that the chief executive took j
the matter up with the Commissioners |
early in his administration. Congress
did not act in the matter that year,
however, but in tlfle current act has
provided for the increased pay, in the
amount of $22,500. The increase will
date from July 1, which means that tfie
next pay enevelops of the "white wings"
will be larger than if the bill had failed.
CALLS AI WHITE HOUSE;
GARRETSON IS SILENT
Brcrtherhood Leaders Understood to
Insist on Enactment of Eight-Hour j
Bill Before Halting Strike. ^
A. B. Garretson. spokesman for the
railroad brotherhoods, held a brief
conference with President Wilson to
day. When he left the White House
he refused to say why he had called.
The President kept the cabinet wait
ing while he talked with Mr. Garret
son. White House officials said Mr.
Garretson had called to give the Presi
dent "some information."
Mr. Garretson refused to say whether
he discussed the calling off of the
strike. There was every indication,
however, that the administration ex
! pected the strike to be called off before
Sunday morning.
! The employes' leaders are standing
i firm in their determination not to call
off the strike unless the bill becomes
| a law before Saturday night at mid
night. They feel that if they per
mitted even one Sunday to intervene
j something might arise in one of the
! two houses of Congress to defeat the
measure. It is against such -an ex
igency that they are guarding by
forcing the strike order to stand.
Brotherhood leaders declared after
a conference with Senator Newlands
and others at the Capitol today that
the eight-hour bill was .certain of
passing.
Committee to Observe Solar Eclipse.
PHILADELPHIA, Pa., September 1.?
The American Astronomical Society,
now in annual meeting at Swarthmore
College, has authorized the appoint
ment of a committee to study the solar
eclipse of June 8, 1918. Prof. E. e.
Pickering of Harvard in a paper said
that it was most fortunate that a -pho
tographic standard of the brightness
of stars had been decided upon by as-1
tronomers of all nations before the
European war, as since its outbreak
they have been able to go ahead with!
these observations.
PRESIDENT WILSON GOES
TOSUMMERWHITEHOUSE
Leaves Washington This Afternoon
for Shadow Lawn, N. J.?Noti
fication Tomorrow.
President Wilson left Washington
this afternoon for the summer White
House at Shadow Lawn, N. J., where he
will be formally notified tomorrow aft
| ernoon of his renomination.
[ He will arrive at West End, N. J., at
8:45 p.m. Returning here Sunday
morning, he will leave for Hodgen
ville. Ky.. Sv-nday night. He will be ac
companied to Shadow Lawn by Mrs.
Wilson, Secretary Tumulty, Dr. Cary T.
Grayson, his naval aid, and Miss Helen
Woodrow Bones, his cousin.
Prior to the notification ceremonies
at 4 o'clock tomorrow afternoon the
President will give a*luncheon to mem
bers of the democratic national com
mittee. the members of the notification
committee, cabinet members and oth
ers.
Writes Speech on His Own Machine.
The acceptance speech of President
Wilson, to be delivered at Shadow
Lawn tomorrow afternoon, was written
by Mr. Wilson on his own typewriter,
i He did not dictate the speech, as he
|sometimes does, to his stenographer,
'but began many weeks ago working at
[intervals on his remarks, first putting
'down, by means of stenographic notes,
the Ideas he had in mind and then
[transcribing these on his typewriter, a
modern machine that he handles with
ease. Most of the speech was written
by the President during, week-end trips
down the Potomac river and on Chesa
peake bay. He took four or five of
these trips, leaving Washington Fri
day or Saturday afternoons and re
maining away, on the yacht Mayflower,
until Monday mornings. Uninterrupted
by callers and correspondence, he had
opportunity to put. into shape the ex
pressions he will utter tomorrow.
Plans for frext Week.
It is now expected the President will
be in Washington most of next week,
certainly until Congress adjourns. He
will sign the last run of congressional
bills and may stay here a few days to
clear up his desk. Owing to the strike
situation the President has not been able j
to reach a large number of commissions
and other official papers, and he is ex
pected to dispose of those next week. It
is now thought he will leave here tot his
summer vacation at Shadow Lawn next
Friday afternoon. *
The President got rid of a large ac
cumulation of business today. Having
satisfied himself that the strike situ
ation in Congress was in good ahape,
the President, after signing several
important bills, began signing the large
stack of commissions on his desk. He
signed his name more than 600 times
before his luncheon hour.
HUGHES AT TOPEXA TODAY.
Extensive Flans Made for Reception
of Republican Candidate.
TOPEKA, Kan., September 1.?Ex
tensive! plans were made fbr the recep
tion of Charles B. Hughes. republican
presidential oandidate, here .today. A
large committee of prominent Kansas
TWO NEW
NATIONAL PARKS
Sieur des Monts National
Monument on Mount Desert
Island, Maine, and the Fed
eral Reservation in Hawaiian
Islands are the new "play
grounds of the peoplt.."
They are described fully in
The Sunday Star.
republicans was named to meet him
upon his arrival this afternoon and con
duct him to the state house, where he
will deliver an address. Other ar
rangements include a welcome for Mrs.
Hughes, wife of the candidate, by
white-clad women waving flags in au
tomobiles.
A reception committee, including
Gov. and Mrs. Arthur Capper, is to
board Mr. Hughes' train at Manhattan,
Kan., on its way to /fopeka. At the
conclusion of the address here the
Hughes party will leave for Kansas
City.
PRESIDENT PUTS NAME
TO CHILD LABOR BILL
Is Proud of' His Power to Sign.
Dream of Secretary Wilson
- Is Realized.
The signing of the child labor bill
was made the occasion of ceremony at
the executive offices today*'" President
Wilson completed the law by affixing
his signature at 10:30 o'clock.
Secretary Wilson of the Department
of Labor, who was among those pres
ent. told President Wilson that the bill
fulfilled one of his dreams.
After the signing the President made
a brief speech to those present, saying:
"I want to say with what real emo
tion I sign this bill. because I know how
long the struggle has been to secure
legislation of this sort and what it is
going to mean to the health and to the
vigor of the country, and also to the
happiness of those it affects.
"It is with genuine pride that I play
my part in completing this legislation.
I congratulate the country and felici
tate myself."
Those present included Secretary
Wilson, Miss Julia Lathrop, head of the
child labor bureau of the Department
of Labor; Miss Helen Summer, her as
sistant;. Dr. and Mrs. A. J. McKelway,
?Representative and Mrs. Keating of
Colorado, Senator Robinsoi^ of Arkan
sas, Mrs. Lawrence Todd of this city.
Dr. Owen Lovejoy of ICew York and
Rev. C. B. Wilmer of Atlanta.
PORTUGUESE TROOPS
AND CIVILIANS CLASH
LISBON, Portugal, September 1.?Sev
eral persons were wounded in conflicts
between civilians and troops last night
near the house of parliament. These
clashes followed a session of the par
liament which adopted several military
measures recommended by the minister
of war and a resolution of confidence
in the government.
HURBICANE KILLS FIFTY.
bridges, Culverts and Houses Wash
ed Away on Island of Dominica.
ST. THOMAS, D. W. I.. September 1.?
Fifty lives were lost in a huriicane
which struck the British West Indian
Island of Dominica last Monday night.
The wind reached a velocity of more
than seventy miles. Rivers in the island
rose 10 unprecedented heights and car
ried away bridges and culverts. Some
streams changed their courses and
swept through fields and villages, car
rying away houses with their occu
jfent* The number of houses, schools,
churches and other buildings wrecked
or seriously damaged exceeds 200.
Child Plague in Pennsylvania.
PHILADELPHIA, Pa., September 1.?
More than 800 cases of infantile paraly
sis, of which 212 proved fatal, were re
ported in Pennsylvania during July and
August, according to figures given out i
today by the state department of j
health. In Philadelphia during the two j
months there were 482 cases and 153 i
deaths.
Hails Taken From Dutch Ships.
BERLIN, September 1.?The Overseas
News Agency reports that the follow
ing -Dutch steamships have been com
pelled to leave their malls in England'
Beeroe. Amsterdam for Batavia; Rlnd
Jani. Rotterdam for Batavia; Poeldljk
and. Noordam. Rotterdam for New
York; Timor, Batavia for Amsterdam.
i BEST COPY AVA
i
May Ask U. S. Supreme Court
to Pass on Proposed
Legislation.
AGREE IT WOULD DELAY
A STRIKE OF TRAINMEN
Notwithstanding This View. Execu
tives Prepare to Cope With a
Possible Walkout.
CHICAGO, September I ?
While railroad officials of the
country generally agreed today
that passage by Congress of the
proposed eight-hour bill would
avert the strike set by the four
brotherhoods of trainmen for
Monday, many were of the opin
I ion that the railroads would de
cline to accept the law without a
contest in the L nited States
Supreme Court.
Question Constitutionality.
Counsel for the various railroads are
said to have informed the presidents of
the roads that the Adamson bill is
patently unconstitutional as being con
fiscatory and class legislation.
"Our lawyers." said E. P. Ripley, pres
ident of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa
Fe. "informally and individually have
expressed the opinion that the Adamson
bill, if passed, will crumble at the first
legal blast. If the bill passes the presi
dents and counsel will confer formally
.j^ *0 legal procedure. It is illogical to
assume that the railroads will abandon
their principles merely because they
are attacked through Congress, instead
of directly by the brotherhoods
R. H. Aishton. president of the Chi
cago and Northwestern, said that the
railroads would obey the law. but that
he did not believe it would stand the
test of the courts.
Preparing for a Strike.
A statement was issued at publicity
headquarters of the railroads that
preparations for a strike Monday were
proceeding without regard to pros
pects of congressolnal action. Offi
cials of the four railroad brotherhoods
began massing their forces here today
to direct the threatened stride
T. A. Gregg, vice president of the
Order of Railroad Conductors, arrived
from Roanoke, Vs., and James Mur
dock, vice president of the Brotherhood
of Railroad Trainmen, and Timothy
Shea, vice president of the Brotherhood
of Railroad Firemen, are to reach
here later today. _ . .
The Chicago, Milwaukee and bt. Paul
road was notified today that the Broth
erhood of Railway Conductors on the
section of that system between Chi
cago and the Missouri river had voted
not to strike.
Statement of Managers.
"The managements of the railways
are disregarding reports from W ash
ington regarding the possibility of the
strike being prevented and are pro
ceeding exactly ps they would if they
were certain that it was going to oc
cur September 4." says the statement is
sued by the railroads. "We will pro
ceed in this manner and advise the pub
lic to do the same until the order for
the strike has been formally revoked.
"It will be recalled that for about
eight months the railroad manage
ments have been warning the govern
ment and the people of the United
States that the danger of a nation-wide
strike was real and serious/ On the
other hand, soothing assurances have
throughout this time been given by of
I ficers of the United States government
and even by spokesmen of the labor
brotherhoods. The public now knows
that the railways were right.
"The leaders of the railway brother
hoods are playing a desperate game
and. as they say now that they will not
recall their strike order until they
wring from Congress the legislation
they demand, for anybody to act on
the assumption that there will be no
strike would be foolish and might
prove to be extremely unfortunate.
Embargoes Going Into Effect.
! "The orders which the managements
' of the railways have issued placing
j embargoes on the shipment of most
! kinds of freight are rapidly going
into effect, and shippers, consignees
and the public are beginning to feel
the results of the strike without it
having actually occurred.
! "It should be fully recognized, how
! ever, that the railways in taking these
steps are not merely protecting their
(own Interests, but that In a larger
! measure they are protecting the in
terests of the public.
I "If the strike occurs It will be much
better for all concernd for goods which
in the absence of embargoes would be
shipped to be left In the hands of their
owners, where they can properly care
for them.
"It Is hoped that travelers as well as
shippers will act on the warning of the
railways and not start upon journeys
which cannot be finished before the
strike order goes Into effect.
"The railways believe that in stand
ing ?ut for arbitration, even at the cost
of a strike, they have been trying to
protect not only their own Interests, but
those of the public.
Public Support Claimed.
"In view of the expressions of the
press, of commercial organisations and
of many thousands of individuals
throughout the United States, the rail
ways are Confirmed in the belief that
the public wanted them to stand Arm.
and they believe they would violate
their duty to all concerned by adopting
any other course.
"It Is the policy of the railways if
the strike occurs to give the public
all information concerning the situa
tion which will not embarrass them in
handling the strike.
"It is clearly to the Interest of the
public that if a strike comes the rail
ways shall be able to maintain a con
siderable part of their service from
the start, and that they shall be able
steadily and rapidly to Increase it.
"How much service they will be able
to maintain, and how rapidly they will
be able to increase it will necessarily
depend upon the protection given their
employes and property by the police
authorities, especially by those of the
various municipalities. It Is to be as
sumed, therefore. that while the rail
ways are putting forth every effort to
(Continued on Second Pale.)
ILABLE 1 *
Both Houses of Congress at
Work in Earnest on Rail
road Legislation.
HOUSE IS TO VOTE TODAY
ON EIGHT-HOUR DAY BILL
Senate Program Calls for Passage of
a Similar Measure Tonight
or Tomorrow.
BROTHERHOOD CHIEFS ACCEPT
Give Assurances Strike Order Will
Be Bescinded When President
Wilson Has Signed the Pro
posed Measure.
There will be no railroad strike
Monday unless something entire
ly unexpected happens to knock
the program of Congress helter
skelter.
Bills were introduced in both
houses today which brotherhood
leaders say they will accept when
they become a law as satisfying
the demands of the employes and
which will be sufficient to rescind
the strike order.
Legislative machinery on both
sides of the Capitol was in good
running order to put these meas
ures through tonight or tomor
row.
No Republican Filibuster.
Following a conference of republican
leaders of the Senate It was stated that
the minority will not tilibuster anu will
allow a vote to be taken promptly.
This removed the one grave chance that
action satisfactory to the brotherhoods
might be delayed. ?
So encouraged were the democrats
ovM-*h?.-?l?claration by the republicans
that they would not obstruct passage
of the eight-hour bill that plans were
considered for a night session and the
passage of the bill tonight by the Sen
ate. Senator Newlands, in charge of
the bill in the Senate, said that he
hoped to be able to get a vote before
adjournment tonight.
After a visit from A. B. Garretson.
spokesman for the brotherhoods at the
White House. President "W ilson told his
cabinet that there was every prospect
that all legislation necessary to halt
the strike would be passed by both
houses of Congress before tomorrow
"'^giving assurance that the republi
cans in the Senate will not delay a vote.
Senator Gallinger. the republ.can lead
er, said:
Senate Minority's Position.
"There will be no obstructive taci.^a
on the part of members of the minority,
I feel sure. So far as the minority in
the Senate Is concerned, a vote may be
had in the Senate without delay.
Other republican senators, including
Senators Borah and Weeks, expressed
the same opinion.
The republicans decided not to offer
a substitute for the democratic bill or
amendments to that bilL They expect,
howevei, to register their Protest
?igainst legislation being enacted which
fooks only to the aid of the ra.lroad
employes.
House to Vote Today.
Under a special rule, providing: for &
vote not later than 4:30 o'clock thi?
afternoon, the House took up the Adam
son eight-hour-day bill, approved by
Fresident Wilson and accepted by
brotherhood leaders as a "satisfactory
settlement."
The Senate interstate commerce com
mittee reported a similar bill, which,
however, contains an important pro
vision, empowering the interstate com
merce commission to fix schedules ot
waees on Interstate railways.
Like the Adamson bill, it provide*
thThe eight-hour day shall become ef
fective January 1. 1917.
The present pay for the ten-hour day
shall apply to the shorter day
Overtime shall be paid pro rata.
> Jurisdiction for I. C. C.
But adds that within not less than sir
and not more than eight months after
its passage the interstate commerco
commission shall assume jurisdiction of
the question of hours and wages and
that they shall be subject to petition for
change from either the employers, the
employes or the public.
The onlv possibility for a hit.H
i seemed to be in this added provis.on
j wh?h is being studied by the brother
h0Nelther<"o7'the two pending bills con
tains the Canadian commission plain
which the labor leaders oppose, and
neither contains the government op
erpVe0sntd?n0tgWnson .s willing to let
those features wait until after enough
legislation to avert the strike- has been
enacted.
To Be Signed at Shadow Lawn. .
^W'ith President Wilson leaving Wash
ington at 3 o'clock today for Shadow
Lawn, his summer home in Xew Jersey,
where tomorrow he is to be notified
formally of his nomination for re-elec
tion. arrangements were made for
special messenger to be started f
Shadow Lawn with the eight-hour bi
as soon as it is passed. The Presiden
will -sign it there.
Speaker Clark believes that ?n-~
ment of the strike legislation by t
morrow night would mean final a
%
