. i
rodliiDtt 3 UU UbrAtjr
2
1
agner:
Jasveb, Indiana. Friday, SEPTEMBER 1, 1916,
No. 50.
Vol. 58.
Gtduftef
VVeeKUi
Peculiar Facts About the ProMbffien
Agitation ia America
L
The prohibition agitation displaced an educational movement
for personal temperance about seventy years ago. It found its
first full-fledged expression in the state of Maine about 1850.
During the next forty years seventeen states had adopted pro
hibition. Fourteen of these cast il aside after experimenting for
various periods.
During the seventy years in vhich prohibition has been agi
tated in the United States, the consumption and production of
liquors has doubled many times. Since the first year of internal
revenue, 1863, the yearly production of malt liquors, first to feel
the effects of prohibition, has grown from less than one million
barrels to sixty-six million barrels.
Prohibition recorded most of its early successes in the eastern
and northern states. At the beginning of its most recent activity
all these states except Maine had gone back to license and regu
lation. Late prohibition victories have been scoied in the West
and South, both undeveloped and unsettled sections of the
nation. This geographical movement can indicate but one
thing that the older and more settled state governments want
none of the "dry" experiment.
Prohibition has always been offered as g solution of the liquor
question. Seventy years of prohibition in Maine finds this
question predominant in state politics. The mosr recent election
in Maine showed a bare majority of seven hundred fifty for pro
hibition. A similar situation prevails in Kansas, the other veteran
"drv"state, where the pubriiflfefetaötTtigitäted by thequestioiY
of enforcement or non-enforcement of the "dry" amendment.
Turkey stands alone as the only civilised nation of the earth
which has prohibited liquors successfully. Yet it is notorious
that the Turks, while complying strictly w'ith the prophet
Mohammed's inhibition against liquors, are addicted to opium
and other narcotics.
Prohibition is a man-made propaganda. It can find no
foundation either in the Bible or in the habits and customs of
Christians in Biblical days.
Prohibition cannot claim a singls great man in history as an
advocate of its destructive theories.
It has been kept artificially alive for years by professional
agitation which does not result from a public-demand but vhich
labors constantly to create such a demand. Local agitations
rarely spring from the people, but are engincered from the out
side by an organization consisting of a few individuals who find
this agitation a means of a livelihood.
Prohibition absolutely ignores the public interest in the liquor
question. It long ago set up its theory and since that time has
been busily engaged in trying to force the people to adopt its
views without modification and without a consideration of the
exigencies of the times.
This advertisement authorized by
the Indiana Brewers Association
Do Yon
ustpies iir
The Jasper Courier, is the only
paper in Jasper that is owned,
edited and published by a citizen
of Jasper. Don't kick about
Mail order concerns if you spend
your money for your printing to
j cerns that are owned und
ooss d by non-citizens of the
osvn
Patronize Eoi Ii-
M UFQBP
flßöSßS 1
Record-Holder 1
Gil Anderson, the Norse Yiklnar of th
speed game, will be seen In the Harvest
Auto ltace Classic to be run on cue lnumu-
a polls Motor Speedway, September 9.
Anderson ia a record-holder nnd the mark
which he set stands alone iu speed annals,
lie drove the Stutz car 350 miles in the
Metropolltna Cup race In 1015 at an aver
age speed of 102.56 miles an hour. It is
the belief of speed experts throughout this
country that this mark will stand for a
long time: Not because of the Inability
of a car to go faster, but principally on
account of the Inability of drivers to with
stand the terriile strain.
Anderson, the descendant of the Norse
men, tluwe Vikings who sailed the .seas
before America was known, endured the
-awful speed for those 350 miles; how, no
dns.Jcnovs. It is a fact, however, that he
and his mechanician had to be lifted out
of the car and carried to their pits when
the race was ended and before that wap
possible Anderson's fingers had to be pried
loose from the wheel. His entire history
stamps him as a great driver and he was
second in the championship award In 1015,,
Ids teammate Cooper just nosing him out.
-Jits appearance in ÄiysKg'
The interest ofrnxtrT-ve
No Ray 0 Good at Alfalfa.
There is no other hay 10 good as al
falfa for aU wiTd. cTli d
for horses and bogs alfalfa la Invalu
able, either as a hay, a soiling crop,
or a pasture. It excels as a hog pas-f
tura, and, -with hogs, makes on of
the most profitable farm combinations.
An alfalfa field is said to be a hoga
idea of heaven.
In root growth alfalfa resembles red
clover, but sends down a stronger tap
root When properly handled it pro
duces three or four cuttings each
year and remains productive for many
years. Land which Is adapted to red
cloyer usually growa alfalfa when;
any lack of inoculation and of lime ia
supplied.
Alfalfa dpes best when sown alote.
Many failures are due to sowing it
with oats or barley. These take so
much water from the aoil that the al
falfa dies.
Alfalfa growing marks the highest
development in our modern agricul
ture.
"Alfalfa ifl the richest hay food
taown." J. W. Splllman.
Cool and Daring Driver
Chnrlcv Merz Is noted for his coolness
under strain nud bis phlegmatic tempor
went. Nothing' excites him; nothing dia
lUrttS. HUU IUHIUUK huiiujs. m- uuca juji DVUUUi .
. well at 1)5 miles un hour, even better.' Qimrm IKa cn fn. orrrvi wnai
T&S& kDOwn as tL" 1 parUamnt.'ried hues-are the result of combm -
S ho u wh , tad?7ti. racf without a Tt was somethimt the same as it U non fronl the different elements of
care in the world. He has proveu this
ttbllitv. As the pilot of a Stutz car In
1013 race on the Indianapolis track, he
tlnlshed In the money, driving the lait lap
with (lie car on fire and the blaze lappin t-!
in his face. He is one of the old school Or x t J AA
drivern and is a team mate of John AJtkeo.l "Mortmain tried to stop dead
iu tho Harvest Auto
', Classic which will bo ran on tho Indian
on tho Innlfln
nnnli Motor Snccdwar! Seotember 9.
drivers of Peugeot cars.
TRAINED ELEPHANTS
Robinson's famous herd of trained elephants, whilst do astonishing tricks
and dance to music of their own makinff, is one of a s-xp oi attractions for
the Indiana State Fair, the week of
the United States, performing stunts
. . . ...
INDIANA STATE FAIR RACES ---. Cr' SEPT. 4.'
The harness races at the Indiana
state fair will have the usual large
I number of-' starters and the sport will
be of superior quality in which many
famous trotting and pacing stables
will be represented by their best tal
ent. The program follows:
Monday, Sept. 42:25 pace, 2:10
trot; 2:03 pace; 2:25 trot, 2:09 pace;
purse In each race, $800.
Tuesday, Sept. 52:28 trot, 2:17
,ace Western Horseman pacing stake
ZOUAVE BAND
Ewing's Zouave band, the flashiest
will be a musical feature of the Indiana
1- nationally known for its stirring
ive continuous concerts morning and
AUTO POLO AT
Polo played by men who use automobiles, instead of ponies or roller
skates, will be one of the conspicuous outdoor features of the Indiana State
from start, to finish. A lartrA lieht hall
fa malleta a3 are seen in the pony
field at full speed, head-on collisions
wonder, of the game is that any of the
Hankinson's teams will play the games at the Indiana fair. They are
world famous, having appeared at eighteen of America's largest expositions
, and state fairs, and they have toured Japan, China, the Philippines and other
countries of the Orient and far East.
"The baby ees learnlnji
fA, madame."
"He'i learned th gwtura anywaf.
Harper' n W eklF '
Th Unwitting Jtttr.
Here ari some gem rusher. t
questions jr.tf l.1 re-i.t iustory
- j OTI1:7int i0,
- , exttm"""
l 11.- nreSCnt daY.
the " r
nw-.ii Toicnrl fmnn hncr
of soldiers known to history as 'tht
; n,ari f rnm leavms? thölT land
- 1 m 1
- 1
3 CkUICÜC, lX)Ha0H 11UW.
AT INDIANA FAIR
Sept. 4. The lud -is the cleveiest in
that arc new aml amusing.
- - - z.z - ".
l r threc-yer.r olds, purse l,000; 2:12
pce; purses $1,000 each.
Wednesday, Sept. (J 2:20 trot,
Western Horseman trolling stake for
three-year-olds, pun. 2, $0,000; 2:03
trot, 2:06 pace; purse, $1,000 each.
Thursday, Sept. 72:18 trot, 2:20
pace, 2:12 trot, 2:20 pace; purse In
each race, ?i,e0D.
Friday, Sep! S 2:15 trot, free-for-all
pace, 2:24 trot, 215 pace; purse
in each race, $1,000.
AT STATE FAIR
musical organization In the country
State Fair th veek of Sept. 4. It
music and brilliant uniforms and will
afternoon during the fair.
INDIANA STATE FAIR
1r used, wilh the snma kind nf driv-
games. The light cars skim over tho
and sideswipes beini; frequent, and the
players escape with their lives.
Harold-Will you take my scat, lad1
XMj Sloper.
The Color of Flamet.
mm. mms-mimmm
Manv people have noticed withlmooa i es , i
r.tLi tM rhnnv tinted btn7 tüought they did.
IUV.il AJJ WW VJ V J
and bands that ilis in tae shape of
frtnmi.v nf ilntno" from
i iuiJVtu luui'.w
Ki These va
tion from the different elements oi
the fuel. The liht blue is from
I
wya from
foQ carbon. The violet ia from th
manganese the red from the mag-
ma?nese LQe A ,&
nesia and the yellow from the sod.
tO nVi ir TiaKfnan narfci of tDM
-
VIVID PAGEANT
STAGED AT NIGHT
Centennial Spectacle at State
Fair on Big Scale,
Students' of Hoosier history will
find in the Indiana centennial page
ant, which is to be the' chief feature
of the Indiana state fair the week of
Sept. 4, a vivid portrayal of the chief
episodes which marked the develop
ment of the Commonwealth, from the
time the first French explorers came
Into the wilderness until tho close of
the Civil war. There were many his
hlstoric incidents, both thrilling and
pleasing, during this stretch of Indi
ana history and in writing the sero
nario for the spectacle J. Saunders
Gordon, of St. Louis, brings them out
forcefully. lie spent several months
Informing hfmself of Indiana history,
of the spirit of the times of whk'h he
writers, the outstanding features of the
state's formation, the customs of the
Indians, th French explorers, th
British and pioneer soldiers, the daily
life of the settlers who sought homes
of peace, and with fidelity the specta
cle follows the state's expansion down
to the time when the present era of
high civic development began.
Mr. Gordon not only wrote the
senario of the spectacle, but he de
Vised the rich scenic accessories
which will embellish the" production.
He planned the forts, the log cabins,
the Indian village, and the other Indi
ana scenery which will serve as tlie
background of the big production. Hö
also planned the elaborate display of
fireworks which is to follow the spec
tacle each evening, ghing a pro
nounced Hoosier centennial flavor to
the huge set pieces and the aerial dis
pHys that are to be fired.
In addition to all these repara
tions, Mr. Gordon has directed the for
mation of the groups of people who
will give life to the' night pageant and
has - directed' . the rehearsals of thj
hundreds of men and women who wil
present the production.
The spectacle will be given on a
stag about 500 feet long, with all tho
scenic vesture necessary to mako it
a great and brilliant production. Some
of Indiana's most historical men will
have speaking parts in the pageant,
among them Governor William Henry
Harrison; Tecumsoh, tho most fa
mous of Indiana's red warriers; Col.
Shuler, who gave chase to Morgan,
the Civil war raider; and anumber of
others.
White and Indian soldiers on foot
and on horseback, fighting the battles
of Vincennes and Tippecanoe; pion
eer men and women venturing into
the virgin Hoosier wilderness with
their ox teams to set up their log
cabins and clear the ground for their
farms; the building of the first state
house at Corydon and adopting the1
state's constitution unier the historic
elm tree at that place, are oniy a few
f tne intense WCHlcniS wnicn are
woven into the dramatic action vh ich
There is intense interest ovtr tho
ßtate this ,yc"r ,n a. f ffa"? re,at,n
to IndIantL's contenn-al. Many v-ry
elaborate spoctnr.es have b-ca ivon.
while that at the Inliana state fair
will not only measure P to them in
magnitude and sp! ndor, but it will
have additional picturesque rlehm-ss.
since it is the only great pafceant of
the year to be staged after night with
brilliant illuminating effects.
l
Embarrassing For th Lecturer.
Civilized people when tbej tiste-o
to a lecture on some abstruse scien
tific subject applaud even if they do
not understand. But there ia vi-
dentlv more frankness among ear-
I ages, according to a story told by
Captain Guy Burrows. A white man
one evening tried to explain' to
gome members of an African tribe,
the Mobunghi, the wonder3 of tho
steam engine and steamship. He
drew diagrams on the sand, and the
audience listened and looked with
apparently intense interest. At last
he asked his hearers whether they
understood. ,rYes," they replied;
"There was a deep silence," Cap
tain Burrows said, "for some time.
, , . i . 1 i $
- men a oice in me center oi
'tto owd expressed the unspoken
intimen ts of the whole usemUy m
oue emphatic word, uttered m a
tone Oi the deepest conviction
Llar.
Embarrassing lor the lectnrerr
WRt-mirctnr llnypH
estmiiteter uozcue.
