THE ARIZONA REFCJB
BCAN;
Properly STATE
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
ARIZONA
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
8 PAGES
JIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 1,1916
8 PAGES
YUL.. aa V 11., JNU. lUb
HOUR I
CONGRESS
TO
THE
III
FlfHT
LiliOllli II
Rumanian Armies Send Enemy 'Back to Their Trenches
IS
AGTIVE 01 111.
BUTTLE FRONTS
(Special to The Republican)
Artillery Is active on all the battle
fronts of Europe, bill only on the
Trnnsylvanir.-Rumania border has in
fantry been engaged to anv extent.
Along the whole line of the lower
Carpathians, Rumanian armies art
attacking Austro-Hungarian forces.
The defenders are said to have re
tired to thir second line.
Northeast of Kronstadt, Austro
Hungarlans have taken new position!
west of Chik Szereda, or. the Atula
river. Rumanian attacks east of the
Iron Ga'o on the Danube were re
pulsed, Vienna says.
Kussian troops are marching
through Pcbrudja. It is reported a
Russian fleet has arrived at Con
stanza. BWgars fear i combined land
and sea atlck on Vrna. Rustchuk,
Bulgaria, on the Danube, a report to
I'nris oys, has been occupied by
Rumanians. In Volliynia, Russians
have repulsed a German attack north
east of Kovel with sereve losses.
On the Somme front French forces
have made progress in local opera
tions. Noith of the bnmmc there has
been no change.
British forces in Aug;ist lost ap
proximately 1711 officers and 12:',.
234 men killed, wounded and missing.
COLONEL ROOSEVELT SPEAKS FOR HUGHES
n
RUSSIAN
PRISONERS
IN REPRISAL CAMP
BERLIN. Aug. 31 ( tly wireless
to Sayville) 'Officers and sail-
org of the Russian navy, prisoners I
in Germany," says the Overseas
News Agency, "have been hrougtit
into a reprisal camp because i
German naval officers and sail- i
ors in Siberia have been treated
ns common criminals. "The Rus- !
sians," the news agency says, j
"will be treated exactly as are the
German prisoners in Russia until I
Russia decides to treat the tier- !
mans as sailors who did their !
duty for their country." I
TROOPS WILL BE
EOUIPPEO WITH
FJ01 SUPPLIES
M1SF0RTUHE IF
WILSON SHOULD
FULL TEXT OF EIGHT-
HOUR ADAMSON BILL
BE RE ELECTED
Balkans Hold Interest
LONDON. Aiur. 31. The whole in
terest in the war is now focused on
the Balkans and on the German field
marshal. Von Hindenhurg. Rumania's
participation ad. Is a fresh armv and
gives the Russian ai:nv opportunity to
co-operate with Rumania on Galician
and Transylvanian territory. Anoth
er Important factor is the closing of
the Danube, the principal route for the
shipment of munitions from Ger
many to Turkey anil the shipping of
supplies to Germany.
Reports differ an to whether the
central powers weie reads i'or Ru
mania's entry with the possibilities
f Bulgaria weakening and of the
Greek people forcing the government
to fsist Rnlgarivn occupation or
Greek territory are much discussed.
English speculation is that King
Ferdinand of Bulgaria is preparing
to abdicate in favor of the Grown
Trince BnrK reported to be hedging
on Bulgaria's gamble by expressing
Kt ntimeiits friendly to his father's
enemies.
home reports that ; Bulgaria re
quires insurance by a reinforcement
of 200,0(10 Turkish troops before she
will declare war on Rumania.
Chief speculation regarding Field
Marrhal von Hindenburg's policy is
whether and in what direction he will
change Germany's plan of campaign'
Whether public opinion in view of
Chancellor von Pathmann-HoMweg's
declaration thnt peace should be made
on the basis of the present map ot
Kurone will nermit ar.v sacrifice nf
the territorv the central oowers ha vh i tinations
pained is ouestloned Heretofore th, j
German government has discury5ed '
victory and defeat chiefly in the terms I
of the territory gained and lost by ttw
belligerents.
Field Marshall von Hindenburg has
t.een regarded here as a fighting gen
eral rather than a strategist His
success in the northeast is attributed
largely to his intimate knowledge of
the country.
Russian warships have arrived at
Constanza, Rumania, says a Reuteh
dispa'ch from Petrodrad. Constanza is
the principal Rumanian Black sea.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire I
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31. Troop
rn route to or from, the border have
reon ordered equipped with extra sup
plies for the journey against the pos
sibility that a general railway strike
will delay their movements.
Secretary Baker rerused today to
discuss reports that the 15,000 guards
man were being moved as a pre
caution against strike violence. But
states to which the troops are re
turning are those where few guards
men remain and In most of them
large terminals are located.
Approximately 30,000 troops are
under orders to move. Many will be
en route Monday morning, the time
set for the strike. If the troop trains
are caught in a tie up. the men would
make camp and await Insti uctions
F.very regimental commander has the
names of the men under him who
roidd do trainmen's service if
emergency arose.
Regiments ordered north remain in
the federal service and are not sub
ject to governors of their states.
Their participation in strike duty will
be on the same basis as federal
troops.
Travel All Next Week
PAN ANTONIO. Aug. 31. Nations'
guard regiments will complete their
homeward movements northeast and
.est hardly before the end of next
week, and perhaps net then, accord
ing to opinions expressed bv the army
men tonight. In some cases there
wiil be much delay because the trains
to hear the guardsmen to their dos-
must be brought from St
( Continued on Pago Three)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LEWISTON, Me., Aug. 31. Progres
sives united with republicans in greet
ing Theodore Roosevelt, who delivered
his first speech of the campaign here
tonight in behalf of Charles E. Hughes,
republican candidate for the presidency.
From the time he arrived In Boston
today until he retired to his rooms to
night tho former president received
enthusiastic demonstrations. His ad
dress was devoted largely to an attack
on the administration and to criticism
of hyphenism.
"Americanism." he said, "is a matter
of the spirit, of the soul, of the mind;
not a birthplace or creed."
The cause of preparedness is insep
arably connected with the cause of
Americanism or patriotism, "of whole-
I hearted loyalty to this nation for which
me greai men oi mis naiion in me
past have stood." the colonel declared.
It would be a grave misfortune, he as
serted, to re-elect Mr. Wilson.
Under President McKinley we had
a war with Spain." be said. "Under
President Wilson we are assured that
we have had 'peace' with Mexico.
These are the words. Now for the
deeds. During the war with Spain
fewer Americans were killed by Span
iards than have been killed by Mex
icans during the present 'trouble with
Mexico.' Moreover, when the war with
Spain was through, it was through
But 'peace still continues to rage as
furiously as ever in Mexico.
"It was a war which was abandoned
ignobly; it was a war which failed
But it was war nevertheless.
"The kind of 'safetv first' for which
President Wilson's advocates stand
means duty last, honor last, courage
last.' I do not believe in It. I believe
an , that it is obtained at the cost of moral
j degradation in the present and at the
nsK oi national ruin in me luture.
Colonel Roosevelt said in part:
I come here to Maine to advocate
the election of Charles K. Hughes aj
president of the United States, and the
election of a senate and house of rep
resentatives to support him, and tr
give some of the reasons why in my
judgment it would be a grave misfor
tune for the people of the United
States to re-elect Mr. Wilson.
I make no merely partisan appeal. 1
ask the support of all good citizens foi
one cause. I ask the support of all
good Americans. And I not merely
ask. but demand as a matter of right,
that every' citizen voting this year
shall consider the question at Issue
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31 The text
of the Adamson bill follows:
"Be It Enacted by the Senate and
House of Representatives of the United
States ot America, in Congress As
sembled :
'Section 1 That beginning Decem
ber 1, 1116, eight hours shall in con
tracts for labor and service be deemed
a day's work and the measure or stand
ard of a day s work tor the purpose
of reckoning compensation for service
of all employes who are now or may
hereafter be employed by any railroad
which is subject to the provisions of
the act of February 1, 1887, 'an act to
regulate commerce,' as amended, and
who are now or may hereafter be ac
tually be engaged in iny capacity in
the operation of trains used for the
transportation of persons or property
on railroads, from any state or terri
tory of the United States or the Dis
trict of Columbia, to any other state
or territory of the United States or the
District of Columbia or from one place
in a territory to another place in the
same territory, or from any place in
the United States to an adjacent for
eign country, or from any place in the
United States through a foreign coun
try to any other place in the United
States.
"Section 2 That the president shall
appoint a commission of three which
shall observe the operation and effects
of the institution of the eight-hour
standard work day as above defined
and the facts .and conditions affect
ing the relations between such com
mon carriers and employes during a
tion of the commission and within
thirty days thereafter such commission
shall report its findings to the presi
dent and congress. That each member
of the commission created under the
provisions of this act shall recive such
compensation as may be fixed by the
president. The sum of twenty-five
thousand dollars or so much thereof as
may be necessary, be, and hereby is,
appropriated out of any money in the
United States treasury not otherwise
appropriated to be immediately avail
able and to continue available until the
close of the fiscal year ending June 30
1917, for the necessary and proper ex
penses incurred in connection with the
work of such commission, including
salaries, per diem, traveling expenses
of members and employes, and rent
furniture, office fixtures and supplies,
books, salaries and other necessary ex
penses, the same to be approved by the
chairman of said commission and
audited by the proper accounting offi
cers of the treasury.
"Section 3 That pending the report
of the commission, herein provided for,
and for a period of thirty days there
after, the compensation of railway em
ployes subject to this act for a stand
ard eight-hour working day shall not
be reduced below the present standard
day s wage and for all necessary time
in excess of eight hours such employes
shall be paid at a rate not less than
the pro rata rate for which standard
eight-hour work day.
"Section 4 That any person violat
ing any provision of this act shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon enn-
j viction shall he fined not less than $100
period of not less than six months nor I and not more than $1,000, or-imprisoned
more than nine months, in the discre- not to exceed one year, or both.
TO PROVIDE FOR
1Y EMERGENCY
(Continued on Page Two)
HUGHES BACK ON JOB
(Continued on Page Twoi
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER, Aug. 31. Charles E.
Hughes today ended his four-day rest
in the mountains at Estes Park, and
turned east on a 2,000-mile Journey
that will carry him in seven days to
Portland. Maine. Most of this time
will be spent in traveling and there will
RETALIATORY LEGISLATION FOR
: INTERFERENCE WITH TRADE
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
WASHINGTON. Aug. 31. Retalia
tory legislation in support of diplo
matic protest against the allies' in
terference with American trade has
been decided upon as a, general policy
of .the government. This was stated
officially today with he explanation
that provisions of ths shipping bill
and the pending revenue bill were
first steps.
Up to now, a hieh official pointed
nut. the United State's has relied
solely on the sense of Justice of the
belligerent nation!!, but that, despite
the principle of which this govern
ment has denounced as Illegal in :
sweeping note, trade pressure and
discrimination has been increasing
cxasperatingly.
Consequently, the government ha
decided after discussions between
Secretary Lansing and members of
congress, to empower the president to
employ commercial retaliation. This
course womn nave -necn tnVcn some
time ago, it was intimated, exceot
that all plans of retaliation proposed
were obviously illegal.
The amendment to the revenue bill
would give the president discretionary
power to prohibit the Importation of
m-odiicis which cannot he imported
Into foreign countries from the Unit
ed IStates. This is aimed directly a
the Rritish emba'aro restricting tb
shipment of American tobacco.
The amendment to the shipping bill
gives the secretary of the treasury
discretionary power to refi'e clea
ance papers 10 all ships refusinsr to
tnk American .business on other
grounds than t''e lack of space. Thi:
Amendment is designed to reach allied
. - yef"!s which refuso (o accept the
roods of Amicwn firn's on the Brit
lsh commercial blacklist,
Passage of the shipping amendment
greatU- disturbed the allied embassies
ere and predictions were freely made
that this country must be embarking
on a trade war that would bp dis-
st raim to all concerned. Just what
form of retaliation might lie expected
ias not been forecast.
It i.-t believed the American muni-
ion trade with the allies which might
lie comparatively few speeches. In the
21-hour ride from here to Kansas City
there will be only one formal address
at Topeka, Kas.
Mr. Hughes motored 32 miles from
Estes Park through rugged mountain
scenery to Loveland, Colo., where he
addressed a crowded grandstand at the
Larimer county fair. In his short
speech the nominee reiterated his stand
on preparedness and the tariff, and his
attack on the administration for what
he termed its failure to make military'
preparation for the Mexican situation.
At this meeting the nominee was in
troduced by Governor George A. Carl
son, ot Colorado, who is seeking re-
nomination with progressive support
Mr. Carlson, who was not present ai
the meeting in Denver Saturday, mei
Mr. Hughes for the first time at Love
land, and accompanied him tonight or
the return trip to Denver.
Earlier in the day Mr. Hughes sent
a teleeram to Governor Johnson ot
California congratulating him upon hi
nomination in the California primanet
as senator, and expressing the hopt
that he would he elected through "
complete union of forces."
At Longmont and Boulder M
be stopped by act of congress. . fur
nishes a sufficient powerful Weapon i Hughes made brief rear platform ad
for use as a last resort. 'dresses while en route here.
Sheriff's Little Daughter
Dies After Mob Attacks
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LIMA. Ohio, Aug. 31. Sheriff Sher
man Eley, victim or an enragea moo,
today had added to his tortures the
Langs of an aching heart, when, upon
his return home today he learned that
his little daughter had died from
schock caused last night when the mob
forced its way into the jail seeking the
life of Charles Daniels, a negro.
And Mrs. Cecil Kephart, Mrs. Eley's
sister, is in a critical condition. She
was struck and abused by the mob
which had been enraged by the alleged
assault the negro made upon Mrs. John
Baber. wife of a prominent Allen coun
ey farmer.
Prosecuting Attorney Ortha Barr, of
Allen county, this evening informally
appealed to the secretary of Governor
the mob spirit. State authorities took
no action on Mr. Barr's request
only the sheriff, mayor or county judge
is authorized to make a formal request
for trooos.
Early this evening a large crowa
gathered In front of the county jail, but
there were no demonstrations, ror
time, however, some of them feared
riot would follow last night's violence
and every precaution was taken.
The negro1 tonight was in the Henry
county jail at Napoleon, where he wa;
rushed late last night while the mol
was enroute from Lima to Ottawa tt
get him.
Col. E. S. Bryant, assistant adjutant
general of Ohio, who came to Lime
this afternoon, informed state official;
that the situation was quiet, and there
FOOD SUPPLY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Aug. 31. Although the
prospect of averting the threatened
nation-wide railroad strike was con
sidered encouraging tonight, city offi-
als and representatives of New
ork's industries continued their ef
rts to provide against, suffering in i
silde emergency. Commissioner of
olice Woods prepared an appeal to
he railroads and employes urging
hem in the event of a strike to permit
food supplies to reach the city. The
commissioner also reiterated his state-
ent that he would act vigorously
against dealers who raised food prices.
The department of weights and
measures suggested today that in the
vent of a strike the board of alder
men appoint a commission to regulate
food prices.
Fear was expressed that embargoes
lready declared by the railroads might
enously altect the situation even
should the strike be called off.
The Erie and the Delaware. Lacka
anna & Western railroads announced
tonight that they expected to maintain
service by drafting men from their
bechanical and clerical departments.
HRETS0I1 IS
ABLE BY WORD
TOST0P5TRIK
E
IF ADISON MEASURE ADOPTED
BEFORE SATURDAY NIGHT LILY
GREAT STRIKE WILL BE AVERTED
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, August 31. Belief grew in all
quarters here tonight that the great railroad strike
called for next Monday morning would be averted. Ap
parent! v congress was prepared to pass tomorrow or Sat
urday, the eight-hour day legislation which heads of the
employes' brotherhoods have declared will cause them to
telegraph the code message necessary to revoke the or
der for a strike.
Although President Wilson still desires strongly to
see his whole program accepted administration spokes
men virtually conceded tonight that the bill as finally
passed would provide only tor:
An eight-hour dav for trainmen m interstate com
merce, effective December 1 or July 1 with the present
ten-hour rate of pay and pro rata overtime.
A small commission appointed bv the president to
investigate the working of the law and report to con-
ss.
This, with the date December 1, is in substance the
Adamson bill, revised by Representative Adamson and
Democratic Leader Kitchin after conferring with Pres
ident Wilson and which A. B. Garretson, spokesman for
the brotherhoods, stated for mall v late todav would be
considered a "satisfactory settlement and prevent the
walkout. Tonight the senate interstate commerce
committee agreed to get out a similar bill with the date
January 1 and roads under 100 miles in length and elec
tric street railways and interurban lines exempted.
The house will meet at 11 o'clock to- i
morrow morning to take up the Adam
son measure and the majority leaders
have agreed upon a special rule pro-
Way to Block Strike
CHICAGO. Aug. 31. Federal receiv-
rships might block a strike on several
roads in the event a general strike was
ailed, it was stated here today. The
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31. Repre
sentatives of the railroads, of th
trainmen s brotherhoods, and of ship
pers organizations, argued for Mm
Hours today before the senate inter
state commerce committee on legisla
tion proposed to avert the threatened
strike, recompense the roads for an
added financial burden and to make !
impossible in the future another crisis
like the present. Tonight the commit
tee worked until late on a bill to be
presented to the senate tomorrow. j
In the estimation of all affected par- i
ties, congress alone can prevent a
strike, and the public eventually will ,
foot the bill for an eight-hour day with j
ten hours' pay, which the trainmen !
demand. Railroad executives and ship-
pers insisted that the strike order;
should be postponed, but the four
brotherhood chiefs insisted it could
not be.
I A dramatic' scene, in which A. B.
Garretson, spokesman for the trainmen
and president of the Order of Railway
Conductors, was the central figure,
brought the hearing to a climax to-
I (Continued on Page Three)
viding for a vote by 4:30 o'clock in the
afternoon. The senate meets at 10
o'clock to begin consideration of its
committee's bill. Administration lead
ers are determined to keep the body in
continuous session until it is passed.
Only long speeches in the senate can
prevent prompt action, and the admin
istration is confident that minority
senators will not carry their opposition
so far as to make it impossible to get
the necessary legislation through both
houses by midnight Saturday.
President Wilson will be in his room
at the capitol when the senate meets
and has arranged to spend all of the
forenoon there aiding in putting the
legislation through. At 3 o'clock in
the afternoon he leaves for Shadow
Lawn, his summer home in New Jer
sey, where on Saturday he is to be
notified formally of his nomination for
re-election. A special messenger wn?
be started for Shadow Lawn with the
eight-hour bill as it is passed ara." the
, president will sign it there.
While 'the senate committee today
was holding a nine-hour hearing at
which representatives of the railroads,
the employes and the shippers gave
I their views on the situation, the presi
dent held frequent conferences with
members of congress and sent for
brotherhood leaders, urging them to
j rescind the strike order.
I When the trainmen left, the White
j House authorized the statement that
! they had given no assurance. It was
' indicated that the president intended
as a last resort to address a public ap
I peal to the men of the brotherhoods
urging them on patriotic grounds to
have the strike called off.
It was not until late tonight that a
definite idea of what the senate would
have before it tomorrow was obtain
able. When its hearings closed, the
interstate commerce committee went
(Continued on Page Two)
o
Boston Ghosen
By Veterans for
Next Meeting
EIGHT HOUR RILL WILL NOT
SETTLE P NG
P
U
DNTHDVER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
AGO. Aug. 31. Hale Holden,
nt of the Chicago, Burlington
land Quincy railroad, who was spokes-
jman for the railway managers at
Republican A. P. Leased Wire , their recent conferences with the
KANSAS CITY, Aug. 31. The en-1 president, declared tonight that pas-
campment of the Grand Army of th sage of the Adamson compromise
Republic began its second week here J-eight-hour bill by congress would not
today, t chose Boston at the location ; be satisfactory to the railroads and
of the' 1117 reunion, adopted resolu- would not settle the nending contro-
ions petitioning congress to act upon ve'rev.
the pending pension legislation, and ..Tr,f, railroads would take no pre-
pavea me way ior me eiecuon oi a cipitate action in event the bill were
new national commander-in-chief to-1 passed," said Mr. Holden. "We would
morrow. I not be hastv because we would con-
The eight auxiliary organization'. i(1 r intrrf,Kl!, nf th nl,hiir.
"It is my understanding that the
Willis to send state troops to this cityl'vere no immediate prospects of further
in an etiort to Keep aown revival 01 disorder.
auxiliary
held their business session at vari
ous points throughout the city and
some elected officers.
Many of the veterans who hava
been here all the week became alarm-
d at the threatening railroad situa
tion and every train carried outgoing
wf.r heroes.
The "dog watch" of the national
Association of Naval Veterans wa
held at Convention Hall tonight and
brought together hundreds of men
who had fought in the sea and river ,
battles of the civil war. William T.
church, of Chicago was elected com
mander-in-chief of the Sons of et
erans. The Rons of Veterans auxiliary
lamed Mrs M. E. Clothier, of Rock
ford, 111., as national president.
The Daughters of Veterans name!
Mrs. Myrtle W. Best, Marietta. Ohio,
national president.
Mrs. A'irginia McClure. of Peoria.
111., was named oresident of the
Ladies of tho Grand Army of the
Republic.
ploges were advised to take sober
second thought as to the future before
striking and advertisements for strike
oreawers appeared in newspapers
tnroughout the country. Associated
press dispatches showed that every
where communities were organizing
motor trucks and interurban lines for
emergency transport service.
The Illinois Manufacturers' associ
ation today sent telegrams to many
members of congress urging them
against being cajoled Into any rasn
legislation."
The telegram asks: "Is congress
running the countrv or has it been
delegated to the four brotherhood
chiefs?"
into what promised to be an all-night
session to consider the 'various legis
lative proposals before it, including the
president's whole program with its pro
visions for preventing strikes pending
investigation and for the drafting of
men to operate trains in case of mili
tary necessity. AH day house leaders
had been declaring that these pro
visions never could be enacted, and
near midnight it was learned that the
senate committee had decided it would
not be advisable to submit them at this
time.
Senator Brandegee, republican, ex.
pressed the opinion that the bill could
be passed by tomorrow night.
Formal announcement or the house
program was made just before the
house adjourned by Representative
Kitchin with a request that all mem
bers be in their seats tomorrow.
Speaker Clark remarked that enact
ment of the strike legislation by Sat
urday night would mean final ad
journment of congress next Wednes
day. Representative Mann, republican
leader, is opposed to the Adamson bill
and other republicans have indicated
their determination to vote against it,
but no strong concerted opposition is
looked for.
Postmaster General Burleson ex
pressed confidence that the legislation
would be put through both houses.
"All those at the president's confer
ence were agreed upon such a bill," he
said, "and I don't see how either side
of the controversy could attempt to
oppose it in the face of the threatened
industrial tie-up."
The strike situation found its waj
into the senate debate on the emer
gency revenue bill once during the day.
Senator Stone, in a review ef the ac
complishments of the present adminis
tration referred to President Wilson's
efforts to prevent a strike.
Reports tonight that brotherhood
heads would be willing to notify their
general chairman that a satisfactory
settlement had been reached if they
received assurance from the adminis
tration that the eight hour bill would
be enacted into law, were denied by
them. They declared they would not
rescind the strike order until the bill
had become a law.
The senate committee worked until
long after midnight and adjourned to
meet again at 9 a. m. tomorrow to
complete its report. Although early
in the evening it had been definitely
determined to present only the
Adamson bill in slightly amended
forms, some members still were urg
ing the entire program proposed by
the president and consideration was
given to a proposal that the interstate
commerce commission be empowered
to fix wages for employes of inter
state carriers.
The only important difference be
tween the committee bill as it stands
now and the Adamson measure is the
fixing of January 1 as the effective
date of the eight-hour provision, and
the exemption of railroads not over
100 miles long, electric street and
interurban lines.
supreme court of the United States
has held recently in two eases, that
the congress of the United States has
absolutely no power to fix wages.
That is what the Adamson bill
amounts to, according to my under
standing." I'resi' nts of Chisago railroads met
at the .'hicago club this afternoon.
Hale Holden. president ot the Chica- j
go, Burlington and yuincy, who head
ed the committee which conferred
with President Wilson, was present,
as was J. W. Iligeins, chairman of
the Association of Western Railways.
A brief statement issued after the
meeting said:
"Methods of dealing with the con
ditions which will be created if the
strike comes we're discussed, but no
definite and final plans were adopted."
Similar meetings will be held daily
until the situation has cleared.
The railroads of the country com
pleted embargo preparations, Em-
Fairbank's is Notiffed
Has Been Nominated
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
INDIANAPOLIS. Aug. 31. For the
seconl time in his public career
Charles Warren Fairbanks today ac
cepted the nomination for vice-president
of the United States on the re
publican ticket in an address delivered
on the lawn of his home. Mr. Fair
banks was first nominated and elect
ed vice-president on the ticket with
Theodore Roosevelt in 1904.
Former Governor A. O. Eherhart.
of Minnesota was chairman of the
notification ceremonies, and intro
duced U. S. Senator Sherman, of
Illinois who made the formal speech
in which Mr. Fairbanks received of
ficial notice of his nomination. All
three speakers agreed in saying that
there will be a republican victory at
the election.
Among the national leaders who
witnessed the ceremonies were Na
tional Chairman Wm. R. Willcox. A.
T. Hart, the western campaign man
ager, and Ralph D. Cole, chairman of
the nr.tional speakers' bureau.
A rally tonight at which Mr. Will
cox and Senator Sherman spoke clos
ed the ceremonies.
