.Evening
JOTOg
t aimer
epor
VOL.52 NO. 208
hi
(MI
OTtlEPREItmilll
SILLS 1J OOHGBESS;
iiTLiiK brighter
Senate and House Both Take Up Eight-Hour Bills,
: Passage or Which Will Mean Recalling of
Strike Order House to Vote This Afternoon
on Adamson Bill Which Will Be Rushed to
Senate President at' Capitol Early to Aid in
Legislative Program.
Washington, Sept 1 Bills to avert the railway strike ac
tually were put on their way to passage today, in hoth- houses of
Congress. t '
Under a special rule providing for a vote not later than 4:30
this afternoon, the House took up the Adamson eight-hour day
bill approved by President Wilson and accepted by the brother
hood leaders as a "satisfactory settlement" 1 '
,. The Senate interstate commerce commitJ.ee reported a simi
lar bill which, however, "contains an important provision em
powering the. interstate commerce commission to fix schedules
of wages on, interstate railways. It provides that the eight-hour
day shall become effective January 1. 1917, that the present pay
for. the ten-hour day shall apply to the shorter day; that over
time shall be paid pro rata, but adds that within not less than
six and not more thantwelvemonths after its passage, the in
terstate commerce commission1 shah ssuine Jurisdiction o, the
question of hours and wages, and that they shall be subject to
petition for change from either the employers, the employes or
The text of that provision is .as fol
lows: "That the "interstate commerce
commission ahaH have the power to
tlx the hour ot later and prescribe
lust and reasonable wages for all em
ployes of the railroads The
rate of wages and the hours of labor
provided, for to this act shall remain
toed for service and pay until chang
ed by the decision -,of the Interstate
commerce commission which, within a
(period of not less than six nor more
han twelve months from the pass
Lg of this act. shall determine what
fcre Just and reasonable wages and
what shall be the hours of lbor for
evil employes of the railroads above
CienUoned.
-The Interstate commerce com
minion shall have the power from
time to thne to change the hours of
labor and the rate of wages for all
eployes of the railroads eith
er In whole or In part, prescribed by
I- on Its own Initiative on the petition
of the employes, pie managers of the
railroads or the public"
The possibility for a hitch seemed
to be In this added provision which Is
l.elr.g studied toy. the brotherhood
The committee eliminated the pro
posal that on the report of the eight
hour day commission, the Interstate
commerce commission "shall consider
an Increase of freight rates to meet
such additional expenditures by the
railroads affected as may have been
rendered necessary by the adoption of
the eight hour day."
Neither of the two pending bills
Contains the Canadian commission plan
which the labor leaders oppose and
neither contains the government oper
ation provision. .
President Wilson is willing to let
those features wait until after enough
legislation
to avert tne sii-iko
been enacted.
Senate Republicans decided today to
frame a bill of their own and offer
It as a substitute for the admin
istration plan. A committee was
appointed to draft it. No serious
opposition to the administration plan
was expected, however.
, Senator LaFollette quitting the po
litical campaign, suddenly returned to
the capital today to take a hand in
the legislation. He said he could
not tell what his attitude toward the
pending bills would be until he had
Investigated them. The time for
passage of the bills is so short that
a filibuster might seriously Interfere
with the program. Democratic lead
ers, however, do not expect one and
were confident the program would go
'through in time.
The Adamson bill has been approved
ty the President and the heads of the
railway brotherhoods have said that
Its ' passage by both houses of Con
ferees will be considered a satisfactory
settlement.
The railway heads, having voiced
their protest against the legislation,
aid nothing today, awaiting Its out
come. . Barring unforeseen complications, it
Mini assured today that Congress
would act finally before Saturday
Slight and In time for the brotherhood
liead to call off the strike set for T
o'clock Monday morning.
When the Senate convened, a recess
was almost immediately taken until 1
(P. m., to permit the Interstate com
C1S1II1E MBIEMTES H
merce committee to continue Its work
of drafting the strike-prevention legis
lation and o permit Republican mem
bers to confer on the proposed bills.
The bill was expected to be ready for
the Senate at 1 o'clock.
'. President Wilson spent almost an
hour conferring with Democratic
members and then returned to the
White Jlouse.
" Definite abandonment of the plan
to attach the railroad strike -legislation
to the pending bill to enlarge the
interstate commerce commission was
agreed, to by the Senate committee.
The President explained his pres
ence, at the capitol by saying:
"I am just keeping the threads to
gether." Majority Leader Kern said after the
President's visit that the Democrats
would concentrate on the eight-hour
bill and put over the rest of the rail
road legislation until next week.
Many Democrats felt there would be
little disposition among the Republi
cans to filibuster against the eight
hour biU in view of the present situa
tion. The Senate committee determined
there was too much opposition' to the
Interstate commerce commission en
largement bill to risk attaching It to
the emergency legislation.
While the Hquse rules committee
was working on its special rule, the
House ' interstate commerce commit
tee met and favorably reported, the
Adamson MIL
Democratic Leader Kitchin called
op the Adamson bill soon after the
House met.
"I ask unanimous consent for its
immediate consideration." said he. "1
object," said Republican Leader
Mann.
Representative . Harrison. Demo
crat, then offered the special rule and
there was discussion on that. Mr. Har
rison said Congress, in the interest
of the people; ought to pass this bill
by Saturday night and avert the
strike.
Representative Ben net. Republican,
denounced the proposed legislation.
"There are worse things than
strikes," said Bennet, "and one of
those things is the destruction of the
American system of government. 1
don't propose to cast my . vote with
a pistol at my head."
Representative Cooper, of Ohio,
Republican. denied that labor was
holding, up Congress, as Mr. Bennet
charged.
"It was not the railroad men who
asked this legislation," he said. "They
do say, however, that if this House
passed this bill today, and the Sen
ate passes it tomorrow, they would
have the power to call off the strike."
"ONLY TEMPORARY
SETTLEMENT," SAY
RAILROAD HEADS
Chicago, Sept. 1. While railroad
officials of the country generally agreed
today that passage by Congress of the
proposed eight-hour bill would avert
the strike set by the strike set by the
four brotherhoods of railway employee
for next Monday, many were of the
opinion that the railroads would de
cline to accept the law without a con
(Continued on page 4)
BRIDGEPORT,
E TAB
1. FMTY: f
PMEPAEE DEATH BLOW FOE
COIfflS'SMM (fflVEKNMENT
,
With ample strength in the common council to impose its will upon the electorate,
the administration has prepared a death blow for the cherished schemes of the advocates of
government by commission.
Fearful of loss under the proposed charter of the present opportunities to award fat
contracts for streets and other municipal . work to favored persons, the administration
has evolved a scheme bywhich it is confident it will defeat the work of the charter revi
sion committee and of the commission government league.
It is more than likely it is now practically assured that the administration will get
away with its scheme. Here it is:
Instead of submitting the question of the adoption of the change of government to the
voters at the regular election in November it plans to submit the question at a special elec
tion. It is so difficult to get the indifferent voter to the polls for a special election that the
strong, well oiled Republican machine will defeat the proponents of charter government by
. marshalling its well organized forces at the election places with instructions to vote
against the change.
The- administration's. spokesmen
naively explain that they regard the
question of the change of form of
government as too grave to be in
volved with the complexities of the
regular election. The voter should
have a chance to pass on this question
by itself, without" having to think of
all the various national, state and city
candidates in the regular election.
As a matter of fact, they recall, well,
how difficult It has been to get to the
polling places any considerable per
centage of the registered vote at any
of the special elections held in the his
tory of the city.
The charter revision committee, as
a committee, - Is taking an apatheUc
attitude in the matter. They regard
their work, now, as completed, for this
afternoon a draft of the proposed
charter has been given to Mayor Wil
"SLAVE" TELLS
COURT TALE OF
DOWNFALL HERE
? Giving: one of the most direct and
dramatic stories ever heard in the city
court room. Miss Catherine Sheets of
Oil City, Pa., today recounted her ac
quaintance with . Nicholas DiSesa of
167 'Golden Hill street and proved an
admirable witness in recounting the
details which constitute the' net being
woven about him on the white slave
charges. He was bound over to the
superior court under bonds of $3,000
by Judge F. A. Bartlett who found
probable cause.
Miss Sheets, -22 years old, was ar
rested Saturday charged with embez
zlement from the Woolworth Five an
Ten Cent store where she was'' a clerk.
The charge is still against her and
she will be arraigned on that count on
September 13.
On the witness stand today, Miss
Sheets told how she had come to this
city from CHI City where her husband
had died two years ago. On the street
DiSesa spoke to her and made iher ac
quaintance by taking her to theatres.
On the Saturday before the Fourth of
July, he promised to marry her after
securing a divorce from his present
wife.- That evening he took her to a
barber shop on Park avenue Just above
RailT ad avenue where she met two
men.
After that, she did Just as DiSesa
bid her and walked the streets, turn
ing over her earnings to DiSesa. She
recounted several ther instances
Where he had taken her to various
houses or secluded sections of the city.
Judge Bartlett interposed after a num
ber of such occurrences hai'oeen ex
plained and said that he found suffi
cient cause to bind over the accused.
Attorney Daniel E. Brennan, who
represented DiSesa, objected strongly
to the Judge's decision as he claimed
that no evidence had been produced
to show tnat DiSesa had used the
money in supporting himself and the
statutes stated implicitly that the
charge was for living on the money
gained in the wrong manner. How
ever, the Judge said that in his opinion
there was no doubt of DiSesa's guilt
and he was bound over.
Father Worsted, Son
Aids With a Wrench
Taking his father's part in a tussle
with John Brown of 699 Broad street,
the son of Job Brough of 218 South
avenue hit Brown over the head, and
was arrested for the asiault. In the
city court today when Judge .Bartlett
was hearing the case of Brown,
charged with assaulting the elder
Brough. The charge against young
Brough was nolled but Brown was
given a 30 day suspended Jail sen
tence. Brough alleged that Brown came to
the Brough home last night and rais
ed a disturbance about Mrs. Brown,
who lives at the South avenue ad
dress. Brown, was on top of Brough
on the sidewalk when young Brough
could witness his parent being pum
melled no longer, and w.th the aid
of a wrench sought to conquer his
father's opponent.
CONN., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1916
UP
BUS
son by the secretary of the commis
sion, Attorney Clarence R. Hall. It
is not part of their duties, they feel,
to ask how the proposed charter
should be submitted to the voters.
The committee on revision includes
Lucien T. Warner, Guy P. Miller, C.
D. S. Miller, Hamilton Shelton and
John S. Pullman.
The committee was appointed on
November S, 1915, pursuant to a vote
of the electors on November 2, 1915,
The committee was to serve without
pay and prepare a charter for the
City ' of Bridgeport, and report back
within one year from the date of its
appointment. '
It is believed now that the date was
set at one year In order that the com
mittee might take all the time indi
cated and report too late to present
London, Sept 1 Bulgaria
has declared war on Rumania,
according to an official an
nouncement made at Saloniki
as forwarded by Reuter's cor
respondent there. ,
Russians Capture
15,500 Prisoners
Petrograd, Sept. 1. In the course .of
battles yesterday on the western Rus
sian front, says the . Russian official
statement of today, the Russians cap
tured 2?9 officers and 15,501 men. Of
this number 2,400 were Germans.
The Russians also cai tured six guns,
ta machine guns and seven bomb
throwers.
German Casualties
at Verdun 500,000
. Paris. Sept. 1 Competent authori
ties estimate that about 500,030 Ger
mans have been disabled in the Ver
dun region alone since Feb. 21, the
beginning of the great German offen
sive there.
The total number of wounded Ger
man prisoners taken in the Verdun
sector and in the neighborhood of the
Somme exceeds 43,000.
RUMANIANS OCCUPY
TRANSYLVANIA TOWNS
IN RICH COAL FIELDS
Bucharest, Aug. 31, Via London,
Sept. 1, 7:45 a, m. Rumanian troops
Invading Transylvania have occupied
the important industrial center, . Pe
troseny, and the Tarlunge valley,
near Kronstadt, says the announce
ment of the Rumanian war office.
BRITISH LINES BROKEN
London, Sept. 1 Five successive at
tacks were made by German troops
last night on British positions on the
Somme front. The war office an
nounced today that the Germans pene
trated the British defenses on a small
frontage at two points between Ginchy
and High Wood.
GERMANS LOSE FOTTt AEROS
Paris, Sept. 1 Four German aero
planes were shot down yesterday on
the Somme front and another was
captured, the war office announced to
'ay. .
French artillery was very active
during the night in the Somme sector.
Lin
FOB w
m
T MILT
the proposition at the regular election.
All of its members have been anxious,
however, to get the charter before the
voters at the regular election and have
worked with that end in view.
The draff was submitted to the
mayor today with the idea that he
would be able to thoroughly peruse
the document and familiarize himself
with it by the meeting of the council
next Tuesday night If on the rec
ommendation of the mayor the coun
cil adopts the ideas of the committee
and votes that the cnarter shall be
submitted to the electors, there are
Just 61 days before the regular elec
tion. This brings the proposition legally
before the votes Just one day after the
limit set by thAJlome Rule act. This
(Continued on page 4)
HARTFORD BOAT,
HEAVILY LADEN,
RUNS ONTO BAR
Chester, Conn., Sept. 1 The steam
er Hartford of the Hartford & New
York Transportation Co.. bound from
New York to Hartford, Is ashore on a
sand bar at Wutrous Point in the
Connecticut river HOout a mile and a
half below Esse.
The steamer,, heavily laden with
freight and carrying a considerable
number of passengers, went ashore
early today. The passengers were
Liter taken off-by a tug and carr'ed
up the river to points where they
could '.get trains for their destina
tions. The vessel is leaking, it was said
today, but it Is believed is not seri
ously damaged ,and it is thought may
be floated some time today.
Patterson Elected
G. A. R. Commander
Kansas City, Mo., Sept.-1 William
J. Patterson of ,Pittsburgh, Pa., was
elected commander-in-chief of the
Grand Army of the Republic at the
annual encampment here today. He
succeeds Capt. Elias R, Monfort, of
Cincinnati.
Sues For Right to
Buy Three Houses
Morris Siegal has brought suit
against Jajob Gerber and Maurice
Muscovitz. all of the city of Bridge
port, for the possession of three houses
on the south side of Smith street. It
is alleged that on February 21, 1916,
the defendants agreed to sell Jacob
Weiss the houses and property. On
March 20, Weiss assigned all interest
to the plaintiff. On May 24 Siegal
asserts that he tendered the exact
money, 15,300, agreed upon which was
refused. Plaintiff asks the court to
order delivery of the proper deeds and
to award $5,000 damages sustained.
SUTHERLAND HEADS BAR.
Chicago, Sept. 1. Senator George
Sutherland of Utah was elected pres
ident of the American Bar association
for 1917 today, defeating by four votes
Walter George Smith of Philadelphia.
The vote wsi 26 for Senator Suther
land, h.& 22 for Mr. Smith. Mr. Smith
was put on the executive committee.
MARV A. SMITH ESTATE.
Helen A. Smith was appointed ad
ministratrix of the estate of her
mother, Mary A. Smith, in the pro
bate court today. There is real es
tate valued at $10,000. The heirs are
the administratrix and her hister,
Grace C. Remer, W. C. North and W.
A. H. Hatfield were named apprais
ers. THE WEATHER
Cloudiness, probably followed by
showers late tonlgrht or Saturday;
slightly cooler Saturday.
BAftRflBAE)
FAME
Crown Prince Accedes to Government With For
mer Premier Venizelos as the Power Behind
the Throne Expected to Cast Lot Immediate
ly With the Allies Serious Uprising Breaks
Out at Saloniki, With Regulars and Volunteers
inv Clash War Party Committee Takes Over
Garrisons in Macedonia.
London, Sept 1 King Constantine, of Greece, has abdicat.f
ed, according to the British official press representative at Sa-'
loniki.
The press representative says the King has abdicated in'
favor of the Crown Prince, with former Premier Venizelos as
the power behind the throne. The new policy, he reborts, will
be to work with the entente allies.
. According to this information, Premier Zamimis' will re
main at the head of the government.
The correspondent questions whether the entente rallies de-
sire the active assistance of Greece.
Various rumors are in circulation here in regard'to the sit- j
uation in Greece. Reuter despatches from Saloniki say there j
has been fighting between the Greek garrison at Saloniki and j
Greek volunteers recently organized to assist the Greek regu
lars who are resisting the Bulgarians in Macedonia. French
troops intervened to suppress' the fighting and the garrison fin-,
ally surrendered and marched
Ward Price, to whom the above des
patch is credited. Is the official British
press representative designated by the
government to act for all British pub
lications in that area. Nevertheless,
his despatches are subject not only to
the Greek censorship but to the
French military censorship, which Is
in control of all lines of communica
tion from Athens.
The fact that both censorships, as
well the the British censorship In
London, have permitted this despatch
to come through is significant.
On Tuesday, Mr. Price sent from
SaloniM a report that King Conatan
tine had fled from Athens to Larlssa.
This despatch was discredited In of
ficial circles in London yesterday.
Doubt also appeared to be cast on Its
correctness by despatches filed from
Athens on Wednesday, one of them
telling of coming meetings between the
King and the entente ministers and
Others having to do with the illness
of the King, who recently underwent
a slight operation. It is possible, how
ever, that the King may have departed
secretly from Athens, as reported by
Mr. Price and that his absence' was
concealed from the newspaper cor
respondents there.
Crown Prince George, of Greece,
whose accession to the throne is re
ported, has been described as a man
of liberal mind, in true sympathy with
the aspirations of the Greek people.
He was born July 19, 1890, and is un
married. His engagement to Princess
Elizabeth, of Rumania was announced
in 1914 but owing to the war the wed
ding was postponed.
The Crown Prince has kept Jn the
background during the war. ' When
the entente troops landed at Saloniki
last year, the King sent the Crown
Prince to take charge of the Greek
forces there. It was reported several
months ago that the Prince had been
sent on a mission to the German and
Austrian emperors.
REVOLUTION AT
SALONIKI TAKES
SERIOUS ASPECT
rnnn Sent. 1. The beginalng of
a revolution in Macedonia is reported
in a Reuter despatch filed yesterday
at Saloniki.
Fighting occurred In Saloniki, the
correspondent adds, but serious trou
ble was prevented by the intervention
of soldiers of the entente allies.
"The revolution claimed its first vic
tim ot'i- o'clock this morning," the
correspondent cables. "Cretan gen
darmes and Macedonian volunteers
nded the barracks of the Greek
infantry in Saloniki and exchanged
shots withe the garrison, tfui ior me
intervention of the allies, the conse
quences might have been more seri
ous.
"After half promising to participate
in a demonstration, arranged yester
day by a pro-ally committee, the
Greek troops finally refused. During
the night, pro-ally volunteers made a
determined atemDt to seize the bar
racks but failed. It is asserted that
one gendarme was killed and that two
were wounded. The losses of the loy
alists have not been ascercainea.
Further details of the disturbance
in Saloniki are given in a later des
natrh to Reuter's Telegram Co.. which
says that when the volunteers ascer
tained the regulars were unwilling to
co-operate with them they surrounded
the barracks in the night, cut the
water main and electric light wires
and shut oft food supplies.
A detachment of 60 regulars at
tempted to break its way out to ob
tain supplies. Its surrender was .de
manded and when the regulars re
fugteri the volunteers fired shots in the
air. The regulars replied with a vol
ley, whereupon the volunteers opened
fire on them, compelling them to re
turn to the barracks.
The allied commander, General
finrrnil intervened to nrevent further
bloodshed. Altogether, according to
PRICE TWO CENTS
W
out of baloniki,
tne latest reports, three men were
killed and one gendarme and two vol
unteers were wounded. The soldier
refused to treat wiin tne revolution
ists, but accepted allied mediation. It
was agreed that the soldiers should
be disarmed and interned at Camp
Zeitinlek, outside the city. ' The ofH- '
cers were permitted to retain their :
swords, pledging themselves not to 1
interfere with the revolutionists. The
barracks were handed over to the '
French. It is understood a number
of the officers and a considerable por
tion of them sympathize with the
revolutionary movement and will now
Join it. '
It ,1s also reported that the entire
garrison at Vodena went over to a
committee representing the revolu
tionists. The garrison at Fort Little
Karaburun refused to recognize the 1
committee, whereupon revolutionists
surrounded the fort. After news had
been received of the submission of the :
Saloniki garrison the regulars at Lit-'
tie Karaburun yielded.
All opposition to the revolutionary
committee in the affected portion oi
Macedonia appears to have vanished.
The committee will now take over the
functions of government and is ex
pected to proclaim a general mobiliza
tion. Prompt action by the French com
mander, who. detailed a strong escort
to protect the Saloniki garrison and
marched it through the streets of the !
city in the afternoon, had the effect
of clearing the atmosphere.
It Is reported from Greek sources
at Saloniki that the entire force of .
about 3,000 . men under Col. Cbristo
doulos, which left Seres several days
ago to resist the Bulgarian invasion,
of Macedonia, has been captured
the Bulgarians.
Garrisons Surrender
to War Party Heads
The surrender of several Greek gar
risons to a committee which has taken
over administration of part of Greece
Macedonia is reported in a Reuter
despatch from Saloniki.
According tq this despatch the gar
risons at Saloniki, Vodena and Fort
Little Karaburun have surrendered to
the committee.
On its face, this despatch indicates
that a revolution Is under way in
Greece, but the message Is worded so
vaguely, probably on account of the
censorship, that no definite conclu
sions can be drawn. There have been
various indications since the entrance
of Rumania into war of polltlo.il tur
moil in Greece, owing to the conflict
between the neutralists, represented (
by King Constantine and those who
desire to intervene in the war with the
entente allies, led by former Premier
Venizelos. An Athens despatch receiv
ed yesterday represented that King
Constantine was finding his position
very difficult on account of the grow
ing' strength of the pro-entente fac
tion. There is in existence in Greece a
committee representing the Liberal, or
enlzellst faction, and it is possible that '
the Greek garrisons surrendered to
this or some Bimilar body. . The Com
mittee was appointed on Sunday, on
the occasion of the demonstration of
00,000 Greeks before the residence of
M. Venizelos in Athens and was in
structed to present to the King reso
lutions warning him not to interfere
in the approaching elections and to
prepare the army for a possible rup
ture of existing conditions.
The forts mentioned in the forego,
ing despatch are located in northern
Greece close behind the front on
which the entente allies are fighting
the Bulgarians and their allies. Vode-.
na is on the railroad line between Sa
lilki and Monastir, an. Important
means of communication for the en
tente allies. It Is 45 miles west of
Saloniki. Little Karaburun is on the
Gulk of Saloniki, about 10 miles south
of the city.
