I: -IRON COUNTY FAIR Sept. ii, 13 and 14, Cedar GityyfcJtahr H
f , Iron County Record. m
I ' ' . WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." ''!S
r ? . HBfRH
VOLUME XXIII $1.50 PER YEAR CEDAR CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY, SEPT. 1, 191G. 5 CTS. PER COPY. NUMBER 38. . RH
!'$ NEW MIC
; OTROON
1 Large Natural Bridge Discov-
1 ercd for First Time Only 10
I Miles From Cedar City.
Is IS A LARGE AND PIC-
I TURESQUE STRUCTURE
W Extremely Rugged Country Makes It
H r Difllcult to Approach Until u
If , Trail ia Constructed.
William Flanigan and Mayor T. J.
I Jones are dividing the honor of the
f ' discovery of an important scenic at-
traction in the rugged Cedar Canyon,
l I within ten miles of Cedar City, which
W I they claim has not been known of be
lt & fore. The attraction is in the form of
$ I a large natural bridge, having a span
M t, of 119 feet in length, and a width and
1 l thickness of 13 feet. It is 100 feet
"a Vs from the bottom of the arch to the
S I surface of the gorge beneath. The
4k arch is of stone, quite hanl and smooth
a jf on top and wide enough for a wagon to
fj , pass over it, if one could be gotten
a j& to it, which would bo an impossibility
ja I- at the present time.
I P The natural phenomenon was first
y sighted by Mayor Jones last Satur
. jg day, while with Flannigan and another
J - gentloman they were looking over the
' S timber In the vicinity of the Ashdown
,1 Jj sawmill. Tho day was a clear one, and
jj tv looking far across tho canyon ho be
1 ftV-i ne'd n ne distance what had the ap
M i pearance of a bridge on the rugged
' 1 f side of the cliff. There was not time
ft to reach and investigate then, and as
, some of the party had to reach town
4 L that night, Mr. Flannigan decided to
1 remain over night at the camp of a
Ijj k sheepherder in the locality, and climb
f 3yy-yr.. to the bridge the -following' mornlngf
j- 3 p -which he did, being so far as he can
fa p ascertain, the first white man to act
j k foot on this remarkable structure of
w. t nature.
4 E Thursday a party of local people,
J I headed by Mr. Flanigan and includ-
v ing Mr. Parley Dalloy, geologist, and
') I Mr. J. M. Bladen, photographer, made
a trip to the bridge, taking measure-
J I ments and a number of photographs.
1 f One or more of these will appear in
f The Record of next week.
. I That such a large and spectacular
3 I scenic attraction could have rc-
"i maincd hid for more than GO yeais
. I I ' within ten miles of Cedar City, not
VJ 1 a mile from the Jones & Bulloch coal
? mine, one of our principal sources of
M r fuel supply, seems almost beyond be-
- i3 fe" "e'' u 8Ucn 8ema tno case'
K ' " any rate' " anvono nas previously
ffiV found it they have not considered it
mW- of sufficient importance to give the
$a Ji matter any publicity, for certainly this
9 p is the first time the management of
' "" T The Record has heard of it.
1 ffi When tho proposed automobile road
i K. is completed through the canyon, this
wg natural bridge will be the feature of
$ Efv . ono of tho highly interesting side
iRj, trips.
W SUNDAY WAS UNLUCKY DAY.
Jj F Last Sunday seemed to bo an un-
T Mk lucky day in Cedar City, according
$ lr to the report turned in by Dr. Leon-
tj ' ard of the Southern Utah Hospital.
4 ' To begin with, one of the sons of W.
"M P. Barton, mail contractor between
x this place and Pnragonah, had his arm
' . broken while cranking an automobile.
'w l . The limb was Bet at the hospital, and
. 'I t the lad is getting along well. Later
' N E In the day Ray Davenport underwent
,i 'M r n second operation for appendicitis,
' for reoccurenco of a pus case. The
, t operation was a very delicate ono and
1 L the results somewhat in doubt, but at
.f ! this writing the patient seems to be
' doing as well as could be hoped for.
jj ,' During tho night a Mrs. Corn of Sa-
"4 l' hara, was brought In badly shot with
,i! . . u shotgun In her right arm, and In
l '' itJi the abdomen and thigh. It seems that
1 L- P Mrs Corn was cnBnKctl in wl,lnB off
jV ' some worthless dogs that infested her
hj, place, and was just in tho act of pok-
tL Ing one of them out of the woodpile
3 f with the breech of the gun, while she
3 grasped the muzzle, when it wns ox-
lh ploded. Her arm was literally torn
J :4 to pieces and other Injuries inflicted,
I I as above Btated. Tho ladies wounds
' . were dressed, and she was resting
i i comparatively easy and was thought
4) to bo in no serious danger at last ac-
1 f counts, though she will carry a num.
t , A bcr of shot and will have an ugly scar
.'H, , as souvenirs to hor dying day.
A PROGRESSIVE j
CEDAR FARMER
Worth the While of Anjone to Visit
David Bulloch's Farm and See
His Labor-Hining Devices.
It is worth the while of any person
interested in good machinery and
equipment to pay a visit to the farm
of Mr. David Bulloch in the Union
Field. Mr. Bulloch is one of our most
progressive farmers and believes in
having everything nrranged as con
veniently as possible, and by the in
stalling of the best labor-saving ma
chinery, reduce expenses of operation
to the minimum.
As the matter of first importance to
any farm homo is an adequate supply
of good water for culinary purposes
and for the watering of stock, Mr.
Bulloch has gone to a great deal of
trouble and expense to provide a first
class modern water system, which is
fed by pure artesian water pumped
into an air tight steel tank with gaso
line power. By means of this pres
sure tank the water is forced into ev
ery part of his home and to all his
extensive corrals and sheds where the
livestock is kept.
Tho farm has a neat brick house,
which affords accommodations for his
own family while at tho farm, and also
for tho help needed in conducting the
farm.
In the matter of machinery, he has
the very latest appliances for harvest
ing the hay, which is ono of tho most
important crops, consisting of a Key
stone rake of the revolving type, a
lato improved loader, which takes tho
hay from the winrow as the wagon
is driven along the field and elevates
it much as tho old style straw carriers
operate on threshing machines; the
hay, of course, is unloaded by means
of a derrick. There is a first-class
manure Bpreadcr, and in addition
Tnunurenoader, by means of which a
wagon can be loaded every five to ten
minutes, and is unloaded and spread
just as quickly with tho spreader.
There are convenient sheds and cor
rals for the animals, as high as five
or six hundred of which arc fed at
certain seasons of the year, with big
scales and chutes for weighing them.
All harrows, plows and other farm im
plements are provided with conven
iences for riding, so as to remove as
much of the drudgery from tho farm
work as possible.
Gradually and by degrees the culti
vated area is being extended and the
odd corners and waste places made to
yield useful crops instead of weeds,
as is too often the case with many of
our farms, so that a few years more
will see Mr. Bulloch's one of tho best
kept and most profitable farms in the
valley.
A great many men of tho older
school are opposed to new-fangled
ideas and implements for saving labor,
which they look upon as fit ony for
shiftless, lazy farmers, who are seek
ing to shirk hard work. But not so
with David Bulloch. He travels about
considerably, and always has his
eyes open for any kind of a now ma
chine which promises to save labor
and Increase the efficiency of his farm,
and when he sees such a device ho is
not long in procuring one.
More farmers like David Bulloch is
what we need in this part of tho country.
THE WEEK'S OFFERINGS
AT THORLEY THEATRE
Following Ib tho program of moving
' picture plays to bo shown at the
Thorley Electric Theatre during tho
week, beginning Monday, Sept. 4th:
Monday Carlyslo Blackwell ln"Tho
Clarion;" five reels by the World Co.
Tuesday Five reel Western feature
by the Universal Film Co.
Wednesday Five reel Western
program by tho Mutual company.
Thursday 29th episode from "Tho
Diamond from tho Sky."
Friday Kitty Gordon in the piece,
"As in a Looking Glass;" five reels,
World corporation.
Saturday Six reel Western pro
gram by tho General Film company.
Work is being pushed with u good
deal of zest and vigor by Contractor
E. Burton on T. A. Thorley's new res
idence on upper Main street, and it is
expected that about anotner 30 days
will see It ready for occupancy. It
will be of strictly modern construc
tion, not overly large, but very con
venient, and will bo amplo for his requirement.
SCHOOL HOUSES
ARE POSTPONED
Those' at Parowan, Enoch and
Summit Will Not be Erected
Until Next Season.
PRESENT BUILDING AT
PAROWAN INDISPENSIHLE
School Board Holds Busy Sessions,
and Gives Attention to Many
County School Matters
The Iron County School Board met
last Tuesday for the opening and con
sideration of bids for tho building of
school buildings, as advertised in The
Record. All bids were found to bo too
high and were rejected.
The building nt Parowan will not
bo erected until next year, as the old
building could not be dispensed with
until the close of school next spring.
The school will open there before the
other schools of the county and close
proportionately earlier In tho spring,
to nllow for the razing of tho old
building and getting it out of the way
so that work on the new building may
begin.
The lowest bid received for this
building, for tho general contract, was
$42,275, and allowed $2,500 for tho old
building. This did not include plumb
ing and heating, which bring tho total
cost of the building up to about $50,
000. This bid was submitted by Con
tractor Burton.
The buildings at Summit and Enoch
had to bo held over until next year on
account of the difficulty in obtaining
brick at this time.
Tho one room buildings at Cedar
Bottoms, Sahara, Yale and Modena
'wlllbocrected"byda'8wagcsaiid
arrangements are now being made for
tho beginning of work on them. The
peoplo at each place nro granted the
privilege of helping with the erection
of the buildings, in return for which
they will be allowed tho use of the
buildings for social purposes.
First year high school work will be
given at Parowan this year, a regis
tration fee of $5.00 being required for
entrance.
The "mileage scheme" for the ben
efit of those children residing more
than two and n half miles from an
established school, was discussed, and
the Superintendent was authorized to
pay students of Stateline who attend
ed the Modena school $1.00 per week,
as there aro not enough children of
school age to justify tho running of
a school at Stateline. The same offer
was authorized at Nada and Lattimer
for pupils from these places attending
the Lund school.
MAXWELL MAKES
TRYING LONG RUN
Covers International Highway From
Tia Juana, Mexico, to Van
Couver, British Columbia.
Vancouver, B. C, Aug. 23. Tho
International Highway became a real
ity today when the "International
Wanderer," famous Maxwell "25"
touring car which holds the world's
motor-non-stop record, rolled down
Granville street and stopped in front
of tho Vancouver Hotel.
The finish of tho run from Tia
Juana, Mexico, marked tho first official
tour over the scenic International
Highway, a road of three countries.
The International Highway is a com
bination of Mexican roads, tho famous
El Camino Real of California, the old
logging trails up the Pacific Coast
through the redwood forests, farm
roads, roads long ago forgotten that
were originally Indian trails, a stretch
of Pacific Highway and British Col
umbia Highway. The combination
makes one of the most scenic routes
ever laid out, a road of historic wealth
and lomuntic richness.
Now thot the famous little Max
well has completed Its task of map
ping the International Highway recla
mation and improvement work will
commence immediately. Cities, town3,
counties and districts all along the
wonderful trail, have taken up tho
work of popularizing thifi rediscovered
, .. . , . . (- A-J'Ji.
ATTRACTIONS FOR
THE STATE FAIR
Preparations Being Made for Man
Sensational and Interesting Fea
tures Crowds Expected.
With a battery of tho world' most
famous and dating racing drivers
ready to send their hundred horse
power speed demons uround the great
track in a death-defying exhibition,
and with ncroplano flights nrranged
for, together with brilliant confetti
strewn midways and n bevy of the
most sensational free outdoor amuse
ment attractions ever procured for a
similar event, the Utah Stato Fair
Board is rapidly completing details
for tho entertainment of tho throngs
of Utnhns who gnthor at Salt Lake
each year to attend Utah's great
State Fair.
Many changes and Improvements
have been made in tho fair buildings
and grounds; elaborate decorations
arc already under way, and the indi
cations are that tho fair this year will
be bigger and better than ever befoie.
The State Fair Association this year
is a member of an Intor-stato horse
men's association, which enables the
Stato Fair to guarantee a week of
the most sensational horso racing any
Stato has ever enjoyed.
Twclvo counties of tho stato have
already reserved good spaces at tho
exhibition building for a showing of
their products, and Iron county should
get In lino and do its part towards
making the Stato Fair a success.
The new garage promoted by Mes
srs. Parry nnd Jones, which is now
nenring completion and occupies a po
sition on the east side of lower Main
street, has been leased to John II.
Fife, agent for Ford cars, and will
shortly be opon for business. Mr.
Fife'l!i,importlnglacouplo of good're
palr men from tho northorn part of
tho state. Mr. Fife is also expecting
two car loads of the now typo Fords
in now almost any day.
James Abbott of Enterprise was
brought to town the foio part of the
week with what was presumably an
attack of appendicitis, but which Dr.
Macfarlanc found to bo typhoid fever.
The patient was at once taken home
for nursing, the family having had
considerable experience with typhoid
fovcr cases. The young man was in
quite a serious condition, and had n
severe hemorrhage while here.
highway and preparing it for tho mo
tor tourist.
With approximately 40,000 miles
stored away in the speedometer and
good for many more additional thou
sands, the sturdy Maxwell will start
back to the Mexican border after three
days In the British Columbia metropo
lis. On the return journey the car
will travel the Pacific Highway, with
a side trip to Crater Lake in Oregon
and a jaunt into the Yosemitc Valley
of California, where motion pictures
are to be made showing the service
scarred Maxwell In action.
Jack Griffin, special representative
of the Maxwell Motor Sales Corpora
tion, who drove tho car all the way
from Mexico, reported that ono punct
ure and a broken top-bow caused by
driving through tho forests of Oregon
with the top raised, were the only
mishaps of the strenuous trip. Tho
car started with old tires all around
and at Marshficld, Oregon, tho worn
rears were discarded for new casings
as a safoty measure.
Accompanying Mr. Griffin upon his
arrival at Vancouver, wore Charles
Heffor Llndorman, secretary of the
International Highway Association
and Al. G. Wnddall, well known
magazine writer. Mr. Lindermann is
to spend some time in British Colum
bia In the interests of tho association
before returning to his homo in South
ern California with Mr. Griffin, where
ho will writo several articles for
America's leading motoring magazine,
describing the tour in the sturdy lit
tle car,
Tho car presented a novel appear
ance on tho streets of Vancouver, fly
ing tho flags of Mexico, United States
and Canada, and covered with tho
names of the cities passed through on
tho trip from Mexico. Tho body, that
was once black, now looks like a school
boy's slate. Tho names of tho cities
aro painted in amateurish letters on
every bit of space and in many cases
where there was not room on the body
names havo been scrawled on tho run
ning boards. Adv.
URGES BONDING
FOR lilt I K
Secretary of State Has Program
for Giving Good Surfaced
Roads to Entire State.
WOULD COMBINE STATE,
CO. AND FEDERAL AID.
Believes that With Good Permanent
Highways People Need Not Worry
About a Railroad In County.
Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 22, 1910.
Iron County Record, Cedar City,
Utah; Gentlemcn.-Find enclosed here
with a clipping from the Herald Re
publican, dated August 20th, 191G,
which I am sending to you for tho
purposo of encouraging your paper to
writo such a story as you see fit on
permanent road construction in your
county. The table In said clipping,
which I have prepared, shown that
your county has no bonded Indebted
ness, nnd that under the present law
tho county Is entitled to bond for
$118,930.08.
My suggestion Is that each county
in tho state and the stato itself, bond
for money with which to build perma
nent roads, as tho money received
from this source of bonding, together
with tho money received from tho
State of Utah through a bond Issue
of the state, ndded to tho money ap
portioned by tho state to each county,
received on account of motor vohlcle
registration, and tho money now be
ing apportioned to each stato and to
each county in the stato from the
Federal treasury would soon make it
possibleto have splendid hard surfaco
roads over which motor vehicles could
carry freight' and passengers, whicn
-would accomplish tho samo results as
if a railroad wore built into your
county.
This la a proven fact, because where
good roads havo been established par
alleling railroads, motor vehicles driv
en for tho purposo of hnndling freight
and passengers are operating success
fully In competition with tho rail
roads, and in many instances, nt a
lower rate, both for freight and pas
sengers. I am sending you this clipping, and
these suggestions merely as informa
tion and ns a suggestion to you, rea
lizing full well that you aro very much
interested in permanent road construc
tion, nnd also realizing that the peo
ple must be encouraged and educated
to make a clamor for permanent roads
and also to be taxed and bonded for
the purposo of raising money to ac
complish said road construction.
Yours very truly,
DAVID MATTSON,
Secretary of State.
The above has the full and hearty
endorsement of Tho Record, notwith
standing wo realize that a groat many
people are still opposed to bonding,
and will protest that you are selling
their children into bondage, und all
that sort of thing. But this is all a
bugaboo. Tho bonds would not be
seriously felt by nny one, and the pro
gram that the Secretary of State out
lines would provide enough funds to
construct good, hard, smooth, surfaced
highways all over tho county. And
we agree with Mr. Mattson that with
roads of this kind all through the state
it need be a matter of small concern
to us whether wo get a railroad Into
our section of tho country or not.
The commissioners of Iron county
could not do the peoplo a greater ser
vice, to our way of thinking, than to
bond the county for $100,000 for per
manent road Improvements, and then
augment this as far as possiblo from
tho other sources named above. Tho
principal part of the money thus ex
pended would revert back to the peo
ple for their labor, and then wo would
havo the good ronda as well, which
aro undeniably a bonefit to everyone.
This Is practically tho course being
pursued by tho Stato of Arizona, and
unless we get in line our neighbor on
the south will easily outdistance us
in the matter of pormanent road con
A satisfactory bid not having been
obtained for tho erection of tho grand
stand for the Fair, tho committco will
put a good superintendent in charge
und do as much of the work aB possi
ble by donations.
THE FISCAL YEAR iHH
ON SEVIER FOREST WM
H9
Statement of the Receipts and Expcn- .HHB
dlturvs Resulting From the '"HMHfl
Department's Operation. HHn
Panguitch, Utah, Aug. 24, 1916. H
Editor Record. The following in a BH
statement of the net receipts and ex- HH
penditurcs for tho fiscal year ending jH
June SO, 1910, for tho Sevier National D
The net receipts for tho Sevier For- tBH
est during tho fiscal year ending Juno VIH
30, 1910, amounted to $14,808.32, Of H
this amount the sum of $12,825.82 was IZH
pnid by stockmen for grazing privi- B
leges; $1,849.87 wns received from the 9HH
salo of timber, and $192.63 from spec- H
inl privileges. Thirty-five per cent of "ll
tho total receipts reverts to Garfield, H
Iron and Kane counties in which tho t QH
Sevier Forest h situated, for roads H
schools, ' j 'H
Tho total amount expended by the ITlll
Sevier Forest for administration nnd f H
improvements during the fiscal year
was $18,850.55. Of this amount $14,- H
058.89 wns for salaries and $4,791.66 "CH
was for forest improvements and mis- IhI
ccllancous expenses. Tho average lll
monthly pay roll for tho Forest jjf H
nmountcd to $1,171.57. Tho entire i'1 ' 1
monthly pay roll and a very largo '-(jl
proportion of tho miscellaneous ex- iTI
penses is spent in Garfield, Iron and I H
Kane counties. -fl
WALLACE M. RIDDLE, H
Acting Forest Supervisor. Il
Mrs. Dora Lister of Parowan came ll
down tho first of tho week for an op- il
oration at tho Southern Utah Hospital ill
but was unablo to undorgo the ordeal vl
until her vitality had been recuper- lH
ated. She 1b now taking a rest and Ul
being built up. AH
J, C. Rich, reproscnting tho Utah- iH
Idaho Motor company, has been in this XrH
part of tho country for a number of (Jl
days, assisting tho local represents- 'iTI
tlvo in placing Mitchell and Maxwell ' if jH
cars. They went south into tho Dixie f IH
country Wednesday with a couple of pl
cars, which they had live prospects Rl
Mr. Walter Mitchell came down ivll
from Parowan last evening on busi- rl
ness connected with the furnishing of H
lumber for tho grand stand to be er- H
ectcd on the fair grounds for tho 1
County Fair. Ho was accompanied vll
by his brother, Clayton Mitchell, cash- ! 'H
icr of tho Parowan bank, Mrs. Walter i, H
Mitchell and Mrs. J. C. Mitchell. )' M
Dr. Burton of Parowan came down 'Vfll
Wednesday morning with John Ed- , VH
wards of Pnragonah, who underwent i'UI
an operation at tho Southern Utah rH
Hospital for appendicitis of long lH
standing. Tho appendix was found to wl
bo in a very dangerous condition, and V'
some fears were entertained for the ' '"H
recovery of tho patient, but at this 1 rH
writing ho is said to be recovering in i l
good shape. i H
Last Tuesday morning during an rl
electrical storm, lightning struck tho ' H
big brick building belonging to tho ' M
Georgo Wood estate, shivering three M
of tho window frames in the front of "
the building and cutting a large hole H
through the floor of tho upper story. '.- M
The only person in tho building at the il
timo was Roy Wood, who was at work H
in tho rear when lightning Btruck the , .flH
front. Ho reports having been se- LH
verely shocked, tho lightning appear- ,HH
ing to strike tho palm of his nana and fiH
running completely through him, but JHH
ho sustained no serious or permanent ,. ftmf
injury. Still, ho felt that death was mMA
getting too closo for comfort, -JwBlH
A DangerouB Weed. $!s8r
A dangerous weed, known as the A'i
Canadian ThlBtle, has just been dis- f a?
covorcd in Cedar City by County Farm T ;
Demonstrator Esplln and Georgo j 1 J .
Stewart, assistant agronomist at the , ."j
Logan College. It is dangerous be- I t WM
cause of tho fact that it is ono of the
hardest weeds known to destroy It 4?Rfa
sends its roots broadcast beneath tho 5 JiSw'
surface of tho ground, and every little , , lfj
way ehoots come to tho surfaco and jE5fV
establish plants, thus causing it to ' fl?fc'
spread very rapidly regardless of .J
whether the seed is permitted to ripen - B
or not. It grows very thrifty and f '
thick and smothers or chokes out any T f JH
other plant life that is among it. At ., tf, 'tH
tho present timo there Ib only a little WBk
of tho wcod in evidence, mostly on ' rifljl
Center street nearly opposite tho old j ' H
school houso, and a fow plants near ' 'f H
tho public tennis court. An effort 'iiwH
I will bo nindo to stamp it out., !, : J
! itl
.A v ,L? l
s w im w i'jmhBWBBBBB
