if v antl probably Saturday; warmer In
iJ FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER Prt'n S""r"ay" H
i) ' Forty-sixth Year No. 210. Pr. . 1 x JM
1 .1 lv c""- OGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 1, 19M cur. a. Sccond.cia.. Matter at he P.toic, ogi.n, uuh.
I Vote in House on Strike Bill Blocked I
jl I
j Republican Leader Mann Objects I
! PASSAGE OF AD AMSON EIGHT-HOUR
MEASURE INJOUSE PRESAGED
Bill Has Approved of President Wilson, Who Is Working for
m?52 i P1,0"" Favorable Report on Senate
Bill Which Would Become Effective January 1,
Washington, Sept. 1. In the senate this afternoon,
Senator Reed declared that if the provision to give authority to
the Interstate Commerce Commission to fix wages and hours
of service were not abandoned the bill could not be passed in
time to avert the strike. To pass the provision, he said, would,
j instead of stopping the strike, absolutely force it.
.
! Washington, Sept. 1. Final vote was delayed in the
house by motion' to recommit the bill to the commerce com
! mittee. It was ruled out as not germane and Representative
I Mann appealed from the decision of the chair.
Washington, Sept. 1. Bills to avert
; the railway strike were put on their
) way to passage today in both houses
1 of congress.
Under a special rule, providing for a
vote not later than 3:30 this after
noon, the house took up the Adam
Bon eight-hour day bill approved by
Presidetn Wilson and accepted by
! brotherhood leaders as a "satisfactory
settlement."
1 The senate interstate commerce
j committee reported similar bill which,
3 however, contains nn important pro
Is vision empowering the Interstate Cojn
j, merce Commission to fix schedules of
wages on interstate railways. It pro
if vldQs that the eight-hour shall become
j effective January 1, 1917, that the
' present pay Tor the ten-hour day shall
apply to the shorter day, that over
I time shall be paid pro-rata, but, adds
j that within not less than six and not
.. more than twelve months after its
. ? passage the Interstate Commerce
Commission shall assume jurisdiction
NEW ASPECT TO
WAR SITUATION
i
it i
i
i London, SepL 1. The official repre-
sentatlve at Salonikl of the British
press cables to London that King
Constantino or Greece has abdicated
f, in favor of Crown Princo George and
: that former Premier Venizelos, leader
of the party which favors Interven-
tion by Greece with the entente al-
lies, will be the power behind the
throne. The correspondent regards It
as uncertain whether the entente al
lies wish the assistance of Greece.
j The surrender of three Greek gar-
i risons in Macedonia to a committee,
the nature of which is not indicated
clearly, is reported from Salonikl.
Other despatches say there has been
j fighting between Greek regulars and
f volunteer forces.
1 Rumanian troops are continuing,
apparently without serious interrup
tion, their invasion of Hungary and
have occupied several villages, to of-
i ficial announcement at Bucharest.
r On the Macedonian front compara-
; tlve quiet reigns.
' Bulgaria's expected declaration of
! war on Rumania Is announced at Sa-
i iuuiki, accoraiug uj uu u-
It spatch from that point.
m On the French front fighting has
7 died down, although the artillery was
II very active last night in the Somme
t sector.
II The British official statemont says
!l the Germans have penetrated Britlsu
position on a small frontage near
High wood.
Five successive attacks were made
i by German troops last night on Ger
man positions on the Somme front.
The war office announced today that
; the Germans penetrated the British
' defenses on a small frontage at two
points between Ginchy and Hign
wood.
The announcement says:
I "The enemy made a further coun
ter attack yesterday afternoon and
evening on a front of 3,000 yards be
tween Ginchy and High wood- These
counter attacks were preceded by an
intense bombardment.
"Considerable forces were employ
) ed by the enemy. Five attacks In all
f were made. At the fifth attempt the
f enemy succeeded in penetrating to
our advanced trench lino on a Bmaii
frontage at two points only.
of the question of hours and wagos
and that they shall be subject to peti
tion for change from either the em
ployers, the employes and the public.
The text of that provision follows:
"That the Interstate Commerce
Commission shall have the power to
fix the hours of lahor and prescribe
just and reasonable wages for all em
ployes 'of the railroads. The
rate of wages and the hours of labor
provided for In thlB act shall remain
fixed for service and pay until
changed hy the decision of the Inter
state Commerce Commission which
within a period of not less than-slx
nor more than twelve months from
the passage of this act shall deter
mine what are just and reasonable
wages, and what shall be the hours
of labor for employes of the railroads
above mentioned.
"The Interstate Commerce Commis
sion shall have the power from time
to time to change the hours of labor
and the rate of wages for all em
ployes of the railroads. eith
er in whole or in part prescribed by
it on Its own initiative on the petition
of the employes, the managers of the
railroads or the public."
The possibility for a hitch seemed
to be in the this added provision
which is being studied by the brother
hood leaders.
The committee eliminated the pro
posal that on the report of the eight
hour day commission, the Interstate
Commerce Commission shall considei
an Increase of freight rates to meet
such additional expendlXJ3s hy the
railroads affected as may hnve been
rendered necessary by the adoption of
the eight-hour day.
Neither of the two pending hills
contains the Canadian commission
plan, which the lahor leaders oppose
and neither contains the government
operation provision. President Wilson
Is willing to let those features wait
until after enough legislation to avert
the strike has been enacted.
Republicans decided today to frame
a bill of their own and offer it as a
substitute for the administration
plan. A committee was appointed to
draft It. No serious opposition, to the
administration plan was expected,
however.
President Wilson told members of
his cabinet at today's meeting that
there was every prospect that the
legislation would be passed by both
houses of congress before tomorrow
night.
At 2 o'clock Senator Newlands Intro
duced the revised senate bill, and It
was formally referred to the inter
state commerce committee. Senator
vrTTToiTiia aniH thnt the commltteo
would report favorably within a short
time and that he would seek to hold
the senate In session until the whole
subject was disposed of, even If It
should extend the session far Into the
night ,
Senator Newlands made a favorable
report from the committee at 2:30
o'clock and unanimous consent was
granted by the senate for immediate
consideration. Senator Newlands
opened the discussion.
Senator Newlands called special at
tention to a provision of the bill
adopted after the original draft had
been submitted which would declare
any person who wilfully delays, ob
structs or hinders operation of trains
guilty of a misdemeanor, to be pun
ished by a flno not exceeding 5,000
and improsonment not exceeding one
year or both.
Theer wero Indications this after
noon that the labor leaders would
fight the proposal to empower the In
terstate commerce commission to gov
ern wages, as tho senate bill proposes,
but would probably accept it If they
saw congress was determined to In
i elude in the bill.
LEADERS BELIEVE SUCCESS OF
. EIGHT-HOUR BILL ASSURED
Congress Casts Aside Other Work to Permit Concentration on
President's Program to Avert Strike Vote on Adamson
Measure Expected This Afternoon Brotherhoods
See in Proposal Means for Avoiding Repeti
tion of Disruption in Future.
Washington, Sept. 1. All outward
Indications of the progress of Presi
dent Wilson's legislative program to
prevent the railway strike were fav
orable when congress resumed work
today.
The president himself went to the
capitol soon after 9 o'clock this morn
ing to hurry things along.
The senate interstate commerce
committee got to work early on its
bill for an eight-hour day and an In
vestigating commission.
In the house the rules committee
assembled to report a special rule
and have it ready for the house when
it met at llo'clock, providing for a
vote on the Adamson bill not later
than 4:30 o'clock this afternoon. The
Adamson bill has been approved by
the president and the heads of the
railway brotherhoods have said that
its passage by both houses of congress
will be considered a satisfactory set
tlement. The railway heads, having voiced
their protest against the legislation
did nothing today, awaiting its out
come. Barring unfbrseen- complications It
seemed assured today that congress
would act finally - before Saturday
night and in time for the brotherhood
heads to call off the strike set for
7 o'clock Monday morning.
When the senate convened a recess
was almost at once taken until 11 a,
m. to enable the interstate commerce
committee to continue Its work of
drafting the strike legislation and to
permit Republican members to con
fer. President Wilson spent almost an
hour conferring with Democratic
leaders, and then returned to the
White House.
On his way to his office from the
capitol, President Wilson, heard two
sightseers, Mr. and MrB. J. B. Flem
ing of Boulder, Colo., talking about
their home.
"Are you folks from Colorado?"
asked, the president.
They told him they were and he
said: "I am always glad to meet peo
ple from that state."
Defniite abandonment of an effort
for legislation to enlarge the Inter
slate commerce commission was
agreed to by the senate committee.
The president explained his pres
ence at the capitol by saying: "I
am just keeping the threads to
gether." Concentrate on Program.
Majority Leader Kern said after
the president's visit that the Demo
crats would concentrate on the eight
hour bill and put over the rest of the
railroad legislation until next week.
Many Democrats felt there would be
little disposition among the Repub
licans to filibuster against the eight
hour bill In view of the present situ
ation. The senate committee determined
there was too much opposition to tho
Interstate commerce commission en
largement bill to risk attaching It
to the emergency legislation.
' As the bill stpod this morning, the
senate committee had agreed that the
new commission should "consider an
Increase In freight rates to meet such
additional expenditures by the rail
roads affected as may have been ren
dered necessary by the adoption of
the eight-hour day and which have
not been offset by administrative re
adjustments and economies, should
the facts disclosed justify the in
crease." Several members were seriously in
clined to the belief that such definite
decision regarding the rate question
would provoke opposition in the sen
ate, especially from Progressive-Republicans,
which would make lmme-
Grecian King Abdicates Throne I
& & & H
Revolution Brewing In Kingdom I
dlate passage of the bill impossible.
Senator Kern, said the senate was
also considering a bill to empower
the interstate commerce commission
to fix the schedule of wages upon rail
roads. "We will have to do this some time
and might as well do it now," he said.
He also was inclined to urge the com
mittee to Include In the eight-hour
bill some features of the proposed
amendment to the arbitration act,
which would prevent future strikes
during Investigation.
Effective January 1.
As agreed upon tooay, the senate
bill would make the eight-hour basic
day effective January 1, 1917, and
apply to railroads of 100 miles or
more in length, exempting electric
street and electric interurban rail
ways. By 1 o'clock the bill was expected
to be ready for the senate.
While the house rules committee
was working, the interstate commerce
committee met and favorably report
ed the Adamson bill.
The Adamson bill was favorably re
ported by the house interstate com
merce committee, which amended it
to make the eight-hour provisions ef
fective January 1 next Instead of De
cember 1, and so as to exempt elec
tric railroads.
The bill was immediately reported
to the house, which met at 11 o'clock.
Meantime the rules' committee held
a. meeting and without any changes
favorably reported the KItchin rule
providing for two hours of general
debate on the bill and a vote on the
bill and any amendments in the house
at 4:30 o'clock this afternoon. Mem
bers of the rules' committee said un
der that rule the bill should be passed
by the house shortly after 5 o'clock
this afternoon.
Senator Morris, the first to leave
the Republican senate conference,
said each member would be left free
to act as he thought best.
Efforts were still being made to in
duce the brotherhoods to call off the
strike order, but they were standing
(Continued on Page 7.)
Hold Bill Will Not Stand Test
g
Holes Picked In Adamson Measure
Counsel for Railroads Advise
Managers Eight-Hour Pro
posal Will Be Unconsti
tutional. Chicago, Sept 1. Counsel for the
various railroads are said to have
informed the presidents of the rail
roads that the Adamson bill is pat
entedly unconstitutional as being con
fiscatory and class legislation.
E. P. Ripley, president of the Atch
ison, Topeka & Santa Fe railway,
said that the passage of the bill would
merely postpone the strike.
"Our lawyers," said Mr. Ripley,
"informally and individually have ex
pressed the opinion that the Adam
son bill, If passed, will crumble at the
first legal blast. If the bill passes,
the president and counsel will confer
formally as to legal procedure. It Is
illogical to assume that the railroads
will abandon their principles merely
because they are attacked through
congress Instead of directly by the
brotherhoods."
R. H. Aishton, president of the Chi
cago and Northwestern, said that the
railways would obey the law.
"But," he added, "it seems certain
to us that the Adamson bill, if passed,
will not stand the test of the courts."
A statement was issued at publici
ty headquarters of the railroads that
preparations for a strike next Mon
day wero proceeding without regard
to prospects of congressional action.
Officials of the four railroad broth
erhoods began massing their forces
here today to direct the strike on
twenty-five roads operating out of
Chicago in tho event the strike goes
into effect,
W. B. Henrlchs, superintendent of
terminals of the Chicago, Milwaukee
and St. Paul railroad, announced to
day that the Order of Railway Con
ductors on the section of that system
between Chicago and the Missouri
river had voted not to strike.
Full Text of Statement.
The text of the railroads' statement
says:
"The managements of the railways
are disregarding reports from Wash
ington regarding the possibility of
tho strike being prevented and are
proceeding exactly as they would if
they were certain that It was going
to occur on a scheduled time at 7
o'clock on the morning of Sept. 4.
"It will be recalled that for about
eight months the railroad manage
ments have been warning the govern
ment and the people of the United
States that the danger of a nation
wide strike was real and serious. On
the other band, some assurances have
throughout this time been given by
officers of the United States govern
ment and even by spokesmen of the
labor brotherhoods. The public now
knows that the railways were right
In saying that the danger was real
and serious and that the spokesmen
of the government who attempted to
minimize the gravity of the situation
wore wrong.
Playing a Desperate Game.
"The leaders of the railway broth
erhoods are playing a desperate game,
and as they say now that they will
not recall their strike order until
they wring from congress the legis
latlonthey demand, for anybody to act
on the assumption that there will be
no strike would be foolish and might
prove to be extremely unfortunate.
"The orders which the managements
of the railways have issued, placing
embargoes on the shipment of the
most kinds of freight and directing
that other kinds of freight shall be
accepted subject to delay, are rapid
ly going into effect and shippers,,
Brotherhoods in Chicago Mass
Forces to be in Readiness
to Go Out If Strike
Is Ordered.
consignees and the public are begin
ning to feel the result of the strike
without it having actually occurred.
"It should be fully recognized, how
ever, that the railways in taking
these steps are not merely protecting
their own Interests but that in a
larger measure they are protecting
the Interests of the public and that
if they are causing Inconvenience and
to us and the public they are causing
greater proportionate loss and incon
vienco to themselves.
"If the strike occurs It will be much
better for all concerned for goods,
which in the absence of embargoes
would be shipped, to be left In the
hands of their owners where they
can properly care for them, than for
them to be in the hands of the rail
ways, which probably could not prop
erly care for them.
(Want People to Stay at Home.
"It Is to be hoped that travelers as
well as shippers wil lact on the warn
ing of the railways and not start up
on journeys which cannot bo finished
before the strike order goes into ef
fect "The railways believe that in stand
ing out for arbitration, oven at the
cost of a strike, they have been try
ing to protect not only their own in
terests, but those of the public.
"In view of the expressions of the
press, of commercial organizations
and of many thousands of individu
als throughout the United States, the
railways are confirmed in tho belief
that tho public wanted them to stand
(Continued on page 7.)
CROWN PRINCE, WITH VENIZELOS I
BEHIND HIM, ACCEDES TO RULE I
Garrisons at Saloniki, Voduna and Fort Little Karaburun JH
Surrender to Committee Representing New Power
Probability Monarchy Will Abandon Neutrality
Maintained Since Outbreak of War Constan
tin Now Reported to Have Fled to 'Pro
tection of German Soldiers.
London, Sept. 1, 1:25 p. m. King
Constantine of Greece has abdicated,
according to the British official press
representative at Saloniki.
The press representative says the
king has abdicated in favor of the
crown prince with Venizelos as the
power behind the throne. The new
policy, he reports, will be to work
with the entente allies.
According to this information. Pre
mier Zaimis will remain at the head
of the government
Tho correspondent questions wheth
er the entente allies desires tho ac
tive assistance of Greece.
Ward Price, to whom the above des
patch is credited, is the official British
press representative, designated by
the government to act for all British
publications In that area. Neverthe
less his despatches are subject not
only to the Greek censorship but to
the French military censorship which
controls all lines of communion from
Athens. The fact that both censor
ships, as well as the British censor
ship in London have permitted this
despatch to come through is insignifi
cant On Tuesday, Mr. Price sent from
Saloniki a report that King Constan
tine had fled from Athens to Larlssa.
This despatch was discredited in Lon
don official circles. Doubt also ap
peared to be cast on Its correctness
by despatches filed from Athens Wed
nesday, one of them telling of coming
meetings betwen the king and entente
ministers, and others having to do
with the Illness of the king, who re
cently underwent a slight operation
It Is possible, however, that the king
may have departed secretly from
Athens, as reported by Mr. Price, and
that his absence was concealed from
tho newspaper correspondents there.
The reign of Constantine I as king
of the Hellenes was brief, dating only
from March IS, 1913. when his father,
George I, was assassinated in Salonikl.
Brief as the reign was, Constantine
had enjoyed a period of remarkable
popularity and increased the territory
of the Greek monarchy by over fifty
percent.
Born on August 3, 1S6S, ho was
educated largely by private tutors
from Leipslc, which was said to have
stamped upon him a permanent Ger
man influence. His military educa
tion was furthered by attendance at
maneuvers in Germany. Ho became
a brother-in-law of the German Em
peror by marrying the latter's sister,
Princess Sophia, in 1889.
His alleged pro-German leanings,
thus Indicated, were not always popu
lar with his people, and during tho
war a strong party antagonistic to
his deslro to have Greece preserve
neutrality and in favor of joining fhe
allies, precipitated a cabinet crisis
which was weathered with difficulty.
How He Became Popular Idol.
The most interesting chapter of
Constantino's life is the way in which
he became the people's idol. Like
nis ratner, ne nau nis ups ana aowns
in favor, the Greek having been quick
changing in their likes and dislikes.
In 1896 when he saw his country drift
ing war with Turkey, he sounded a
warning that the Greek army was ut
terly unprepared for a campaign. Tho
infantry was armed with condemned
French rifles, which had cost $2 each;
the cartridges were 15 years old;
there was no cavalry; the artillery
was obsolete, and its officers few.
Nevertheless, the country decided
upon war. The result was disastrous
a humiliating defeat for Greece. Im
mediately the popular tide turned
against its rulers; whom it denounced
as foreigners who could have little
In common with the Greoks. The
King and Queen were hooted in the IH
streets, and the officers turned their
backs upon the Crown Prince.
A similar spirit was roused against IH
the royal house when, in 1909, King jH
George tried to oppose the popular jH
clamor for the annexation of Crete,
knowing that Turkey was eagerly
awaiting such an excuse to bring a
second crushing defeat upon Greece. IH
This time the clamor almost became JH
a revolt, and the King was obliged
toj yield to the demand of the military
league, both for a reorganization of
the army and for the dismissal of tho
Crown Prince as Generalissimo. He IH
thereupon decided to accept a com-
mand in the Russian army, but the JH
opposition to him was smoothed out
and he was restored to his former
dignities.
Hero During Balkan War.
He finally became a national hero
in the Balkan war of 1912, when he
led an army of 10,000 Greeks to the
capture of Saloniki, causing 30,000 IH
Turks to lay down their arms. His
popularity was such, as a result of
this feat, that Greeks in America
raised several thousand dollars with
which to purchase a gift sword, in
scribed: "To Constantine, tho Liber-
When Constantine came to the IH
throne it was said he aimed to restore
the former grandeur of the ancient JA
Hellenic Empire, and that he was as
believer in the old national prophecy 'M
that under the reign of a Constantine
and a Sophia the Eastern Empire
would be called into life again and IH
the cross restored on St. Sophia at IH
Constantinople in place of the cres-
cent IH
By the peace treaties signed after IH
the Balkan wars, Greece added a con
siderable stretch of Turkish territory
to her domain and in December, 1913,
the long desired annexation of the
Islands of Crete was carried out, King
Constantine himself hoisting the Hel
lenic flag over the fort.
With the entrance of Turkey Into JM
the European war the quesf of the
Intervention of Greece soon b-jcame to
be seriously considered but King jH
Constantine insisted upon strict neu
trallty. The cabinet, headed by Pre
mier Venizelos, which was for war on
the side of the allies, finally tended jH
its resignation. The Greek attitude,
at least so far as the war party was
concerned, was largely to the effect
that If Greece had to hand in the war, jH
her Interests might suffer when peace
was arranged.
Attempted to Explain. IH
The Athens correspondent of the jH
London Morning Post on March 29,
1915, attempted to explain the sltua
tion in a letter in which he said that JH
in tho second month of tho war the
Greek Premier had intimated to the
Entente Powers that Greece would
join their cause actively if the neces
slty should arise, and with the com
mencement of the operations against jH
the Dardanelles the government be
llevcd the time had como for Greece
to abandon her neutrality. The King
however, refused to countenance this
plan. It was argued that sending 'H
forces to tho Dardanelles would dan-
gerously weaken Greece's defence on jH
tho Bulgarian frontier, and slnco
Greece had received no formal invlta- jH
tion from tho Triple Entente her en- IH
trance Into the war would be undor- jH
taken without any guarnatee from tho jH
powers as to the Greek position on tho
mainland.
"The King's refusal to conaont to IH
the war policy," said the Post corro IH
spondent, "was undoubtedly actuatod IH
in all good faith by a patriotic con jH
sideration of the military difficulties. tiH
Unfortunately, his entourage 1b known
to hold strong pro-German sentiment,
(Continued on Pago 7.)
j i 11 "" "
I jte Chapter ol "Liberty" in Tomorrow's Standard j I
