) jaaafl
n l
Waterman's Fountain jplT fjRl The Sun carries at all ! I
$SotthS " IffP Jii I times a complete stock I
01 m POLITICALLY, REPUBLICAN. of Legal Blanks, Etc. &
- - ,'re,d " S ond n"' M" J Xl the Poatoffi nt Prl Mlnhl ruler the Act of iHrch 3. 1S7
A PLUME 2; XUMUCTl I. EVCRY FmpAY SEPTEMBER, 1910 B
CATTLEPRICESON
DECIMIN EftST
DltOI' M (Hl('i(, si. (Otis
MI KNSS Cll,
to..-- Doe I" Mix ml sniil mill In
ability ir Pin. Kir in Oil Fnoui.li
Mm li Hum tin Ir Plant in Ciipa
,1,, Mnrkitn Uiuir On Klllluc
Mmp. Hut DOS" ""I'1 l'l u'"
Th Sun Hill Hcrvlci
KANHAH CITY, Mi. Aug 2i
Cattle rice declined nround it dollar
i hundred at Chlmgo lnl week, fort)
I, i-vent) flvi cent In HL I -Mil anil
thirl) to idxt) rent here, lowe luc
to a lllxrnl ituppl) nml lunlilllt) of
picker In Ret rniniRli nun to run
their plant to rnpnctl) Tin Pan
handle rnuntr) Kt good rain lint
w-tk and marb) tcrrltor) checked It
loading becnuw of tin decline, fiutu
that reulted In n run of onl twcnl)
thousand i attic hero todn), twelve
thousand leu than Inn Mondn). The
market wn ndlve from the tnrt, nml
uleii were ten to tw ent) -five tent
hlcher thnn the (low Inut week,
itockcr nml feeder n iiunrter higher
ml All thi Iiim of lnt vvt i k rcgnlned
on Rood nmn tattle Feeder bu
r bought n kooiI tnnii)' flrh) tecr
t IT 60 In M 30 nml hhl on mini)
that the) illil not Ret. which rtrenKlli
itd the market nit nrouml Omm
trfri old nl l 00 to If 10 nml fed
teem up to $10 60 ,
Sheep rerilplM were ten thiiuwind
had. mimtly from Ftnh nml Arltoim,
went) thnn hundrnl henil brought
In b) Hwlfl Imluileil Thce origin
ated nt Mill fit). Idit The mnrket
ten to fifteen cent lower on
killing kind ami ulrnng on feeili m
Threr load of Peer) lamb nld nt
114 IJ KtrnlKht, mil) lxt-fnur
pound nml not thnlu Seven ram
of II) run lamb, Huulvllle (I mil)
M nt 110 SS. lxt)-vcii pound h -rag
with it 30 per cent rort In fe, d
r bu)cr nt l7S. Thcw fiedera
rre not (lelrnblc. wi lulling lxt)
pound nml lontnlnltiK n K"l mini)
wrlnkl) InmliM. Choln liunln would
he IroiiKht 110 Si to kilter tnilit)
Uil tliere hern nn hen Top In Oil
eitu ti'ilii) In 110 10 nml nt Oinuhn
119 :t I'nt wen art worth up to
ITS: nethim 17 30. iMirllnK MOV,
brredlmc wm 17 60 to 19 00 it ml feed
Inccwii) f 3 00 to tfi.&0. HniiKr rlilp
trt would Kit liMter rexiiltii If thev
would ilhlilp their tihlpuietiu mort
imonK the innrketH, nml not on("n
irate iiiiiii) nt Oninlm whlih nml -in
hnil thlrt)-elKht thoumml loiin
Ufig wild firiemi tit twnl)flMt
eenta hlKher loda) follow Intr n mod
rl Iom lull- hml wek Top tlO 30,
equal to tin luxt prlii ihiIiI l4l wcik.
Retell In neveu tliiniiwni' hmiit I.Uht
weliht Iiokm nml midliim eluht
krouKht tin lop nml lini) lii'r up to
110 73 Itlllk of Will N MO 10 In 110 SO
Order buirH IxniKht nne-thlrd of lh
wril hirr Inm wrrk ail tli) took
at tlu In kh exiept nhii' n tlioiiMirid
hiJ ioiIh), imtklni; it Mr fil mnr
ket Tlu nhurp i ompetlllon put
rl m lnri tin to twoni) iriilN niMi.
th oilur MIoiirl rlrr mirl mn to.
la
I - r Nlllui: llleli
VinirdliiK to John II Heel) of Mt
Ikaant HunpetK count) In rnJo)liiK
an era of unpiirnlkliil irimperlt) In
adlltinn to fair crop condition. Ht el)
M) that tln heip lndnlr win new
r before In ueh rxiellent lomlltlon
"'h reientl) Hold ii thnuiuuid floik
Ftamlioiilllet rweii for ten ilollnrn a
"ad the piirihuHo I elnu maMe h) nn
Italian woolicrnwer nt I'rlii Mr nn
Hpite velllnK another thounnnd at
Ilka fUiiro within u few iln)N
l'roiimii WimiI ludiixlry.
The Ainerlian Wool Improvement
KHliitlon will l Incorporated dur
lc th. mxt fiw dn)H nt HU Itko
Ht) Thi HHxoclHtlou will devoir It
If to priu thai Inktruitlnn nml ilrin
nMrniiiin work In lonuertlnn with
th" wimiI Imlnatr) It wilt be non.
wllti nl and not embark on nn) com
Wrilnl rntirprlnr. but will demon
rte unit orKQiilar new method
l h w bo prof liable to wool
ROKen Mi nmnl II) 1 laim.. .
flllCWClO, Aut. 37 rirr demro).
' two larKo fl)r-tor brlek build
ln bilonR'nc to Bwlft & Co nt the
tnck)nrd tonlKht. cnunliiK In" '
Jlmattd itt two hundrtd thouiand dol
ri The flamra apread with aucW
Pldl.thnl half of the fire appum
,u of the city wan called to prevent n
pread to other Htrutturem
To htop Hoc Clioltrn
IDAHO TAIXH, Ida, Aur S7
Jour raaea of cholera In an many dlf
i"nt herd of iiwlne In thU vicinity
'ourht Dr. If O. Hodle. atate veter
inarian, here who will co-operate with
Yr W A Hulllvan, federal lnpecto
or Idaho In the bureau of animal In-
B.U8try. In preventing the spread of
jn dlaeaae Farmers will be orcun
"d by thi of f Iclali and will work to
4 ther in flKhtlnir the cholera.
t '
L ljniw hell liur Mirnil
K-WHSRIt. Ida. Au;. 37 An op
"n wbn tloaod here )tterda by a
E4 known utockman for the pur
Va'i of lambs of a aheeuman In
ffl' the anlmala to be delivered
HjPtember 1, 1917. at IS 'J3 per head
"I'M GOING TO FIND OUT IF TJilS FELLOW IS GUN SHY."
FIRST AID CONTEST TO BE HELD IN
PRICE BETWEENJ1 FUEL TEAMS
A. H. Covvle, vice prcriidenl and Kcncrnl miinitKer of Utah Fuel
company at Sail Lake City, and J. S. Thompson, Kuncral Hupcrin
tendent, were in Price hint Monday. The Rentlemen tell The Sun
that the first aid and mine rescue contest between the Carbon
county teams of Utah Fuel company will be held nt Price on the
:50th of this month.
The teams to particinate are Clear Creek, Winter Quarters,
Castle Gate and Sunnyside. Excursion trains arc to brinK the
teams and people from the camps named and n cry larKe crowd
it naturally to be expected. The mines will be shut down on that
c'ato that all who desire to come to Price may hae the opportunity
to witness the ecnts.
It is expected that all the other camps of the county will be
well represented. The Sun will in a later issue publish a list of the
contests to be entered into.
locatesjnJnevada
JiiiIbi' Ultllum II. I r)i I'riiillilne
Uiw l low n of IniviIim !.
I'rl. ikU of Judge William II l'r)e.
who lift l'rlte reveral monlliN nK to
to. .ill lit (.'nllforiibi, will Im mirprlmil
to I iti r n that he Iiun nienll) mtuli
Untied hlmi'ilf nt livrlmkN, .Siv, In
tlir lirnilhr of hi profrwlon the
Inw II will un l it pliiifiiri to
thi in whn are iniiuled b) the him
druU Ihrouiihout farlion count) nml
litmlern I'liih to. know that hU prixi.
pei In nn nf the brlKlilwt In hi m w
hnllll
t'nrlHin niinl) iiuit hud n letter
illlain or un ntlnr imintr) it mure
demrvliiK Ktiitlemun than Hon W Il
llain II I'D i I'nr nlmi )isir hi flu
id the offlie of count) uttnrne) here
ii will it (It) uttnrne) of l'rlir for
liilte awhile I In wiin aUo h member
of the Im ul hi hoot latnrd at different
tlmiN In nil hi iIihiIIiik iih n tit)
it ml iiiunl) official, iih well a In IiIn
private prnitlir, lie wu ever u niuare
n the) mnkr thenu
Uieo(l(N, Judxn 1'di'n hi w home,
In the inter nf It fuxt deVeloplliK mill
InK uKrliiilturnl nml nloikralnltiK mv
Hon nml promlae to betomr one of
the real Important cltle of the Huue
liruili Htute It I kTiiwIni; rnpldl) nil
the thin Ml VIvIiiii, JuiIkk I'rjrt
onl) dniiKhter, In ut tiretmil nt Tallou,
,Se , while Kdwln, the hoii In tern
porurll) In Montana, but Ixith are
oon to Join their father In hi new
home
Thn IV)e urr n niiwl excellent fum
III d mi) (It) or community should
hi mud of ilulmlmr litem an real
dent. The vi r), vrr mini) frh ml
of fathi r nml win nml daiiKhter loon I
ly wlih Hum health, wraith nml
happlneaa' wherever their lol muy
be cnat Tin Hun will keep them
poatid on new from their former
home for fifteen )rnr.
ANOTHER l PASSES
l'tillier of Mr CJonur IVupchU DIch
At UN llomi lu limn Itlvir,
John V, Hmlth un earl) pioneer of
Utah and father pt Mr. Oomer Pea
cock of Price. PAI wa Wedne.
da) mornlna; after o'lon- lllne. Hur
InK the paat few fear deieaaed had
lived nt Oreen ItlveM
Ho came to UtatiTn 148 from Ten
neice and remained hero contlnu
oualy alnce then, realdlng moat of the
time In the Dixie iountr
Funeral nervlcea wtro held thla
mnrnlnif at the tabernacle, followed
b) Interment In the Price cemetery.
IlrUImm M. Ooold of Wellington
announceo In thU week'a Bun hla can
didacy for the office of county naae.
or, aubject to the will of the repub
llcnn county convention Mr. Ooold
U an old timer In Carbon county, hav
ing realded hro alnce 1818 If nom
inated and elected he f 111 fill the of
fice with credit,
MINIM MIST HERE
Hnldir of Unix Creek ('iui)on (jial
taniU Malni, short lll,
J t' VuuHvra nf Muriiielte, MUh,
wu n Wedncftda) vUllur In Prlie,
atnpplng here between train m hi
wu) tn Halt Itke fit) mid honoring
The Hun with n romddi robli portion
nf hU limited time The k nth man
nml hi intwiilHlrN own twenty -nix
hundretl in re of rnul Innd lying b
tween lluree Chidiui and Kiinn)iildr
lu Curtion enunl) und for whluli the)
nevrrul ram uko imbl I'm Ir Hum flf
t) dollar un atn Numernu anal).
e how their iiwl to lie of good
inking iiunllt), und 'whin the time
iMiine' the prnpert) In In be ilivrt
npul on a ver) large eule
IliNddex the t'nrlHin (ount) Intireata,
Mr VuiiKvrii Iiun a large bod) of ng
rhulturnl Innd In Millard count).
Hirer humlrid and twent) uire In n
high vtnta of cultlvutlon nml whlih I
.hi lug fnrmeil l hi two wtu. Hit
mule to I tuh he lookid after txiinn
large liiveatmeutii lu (IuiiiiInoii count),
rolo, and nlao at I-udv lite mining
proposition. He will vUlt Millard
iiiunt) I k! fore returning Hunt An
other aoii, who la nt the military train
ing i amp ut Ion, will uicompau) hi
fattier home In time to ntwr college
OwIiik to hi limited time on thi
trip Mr VnuHvni could not vUlt the
krveral toal cump lureubout which
he ver) much delred to do letter,
linwever, he will n turn to ITtah nml
more than llkel) go down Into Iron
i ount), where neveral Mb hlgumlerN
havi nn eje on the Iron on of that
HUtlou Hi wu here home nliir
)ear ago amV marveled ut the growth
nf Prlie In thut Him Thn new Den
ver nml Itln (Iruiidr depot nml the
elegant hualnewt Ntruiturer are thing
whlih bewildered him, u It werr
The Hun keep him pol(d on the
new of Carbon iiiunt) und IJanlern
I'luh, but dK not photograph ull the
ImprnvrmentN going on looallj, "The
VanKvra," aald tie, 'have n tender
put In their henita for Utah, which
hain't an )et atarted tn grow. In
Prke )ou have the making of a great
town Coal and agriculture will no
(ompllah It."
1'llti: IHZhTHOlK IIOMK OF
HHi: CIIII4-' MOHO KINO
Fire Wedneadaj i.lght about 13
o'clock deatroyed' the 'home of Morg
King on South .Ighlh itreet next to
tho Bmoot-Nlxiin Lvlmber compan),
the houke and rAmUaiilng being a to
tal Iom How the flro atarted I a
m)tery a the famll) win aw uy at
the time. Thn building waa owned
b) Thonaii Fltagerald and wu Inaured
for four hundred dollar, while King
carried alx hundred on hU houaehold
gooda There had been no flro In the
houae alncc early evening, conaequent
ly It la cnhlderable of a myitery how
It happoned
Typewriter ribbon and carbon pa
per The Sun
A. C. HOOVER THE
ACADEMY'S HEAD
movtn m ciiosi: i on
piati: n Mimioiivrr.
Hit. Utrr A. Jone, 1'ormi r I'rlml.
(Ml, ,( o hall IjiUc Ity Pn
lor or lllurl) Park I liunli H( v.
II, T. Alilirw l Nn Mlnl.li r lor
I'rici Itln r iHliitmi ut.
Humhi) ivenlng lml the thlrt)
riventh MMlnn of the t.'lah Methodlat
mlwlon inmr to a (limr nt Halt Ijike
I'll) with the Mppolntmenl for the
lomlng )iar Onl) n few ihnnge
wire made lu the pnalornte. In Halt
Ijlki I'll) Uev Will A Itett ntaln
the imntoruti of the Flint MithndUt
ihurih, Itiv K J. Mugor I ri mined
nt lllff (hunh, Itiv Martin TIkiiiiun
wilt continue In ilmrge of Heath and
Waterloo i hurt hen, Hev U A June,
former prlnilpnl nf the l'rlte nrad
em), nmceedM Itev l K i'nrtir im
IHiatur of the l.lberl) Park ihuruh
Itrv Carlir In returuid tn hi own
(onfereme At Ogden Itev F W
Itretnull uweed Itev O F Hom
wrller, who In n tumid lo hi own
ioiifernir At I nrlmk lu the nf
ti rnoon tin ordination of three i ler
g)ineu tiHik plair Itev letter A
loner of the Indiana ennferemr nml
Ittv llradford T Flk of the Ni bra
kn i onfereme were nrdiilmd elder,
mid Itev Henr) Fr)ir of the Ftah
inuferenii' vviin ordained demon
NiIiilnii ut n Mudr,
lliro urr the mlaelou appointment
for the )ear IVI4-I7 Huperlntiud
ent IMwurd Uilrd Mill, ruperlnteml
ent Hiumllnnvlun iiiUnIoii. H. H
Mork, lltsivir nml Mllford Himunl
Allium, lllnghum Can) on. Thomna
Munwurlng. Corlnnr und Trdnouton,
II T l'lk, Kphrulm ilriult to bo
aupplleil, Uignn, to be Niipplhd; Mlir
ni) und Mldvule, IS K Mork, Ugden,
F W llretnult, Purk Clt), II O Nor
rlN, Irlir II T '.elder, Prnvn and
Klbertn. Jame M McDonald, Itlih
field Miir)NVite and Juiu tlon In he
upplled Hull iJike I'lmt, Will A
Hell, lllff K J Mugor: l.lberl)
Purk !. A June. Heath mid Wntir
loo, Martin Thoniii. TihwIi, Uiileil
b F W. llro.
Itonic M.loiiarlcs I 'If,
Worker for Womnn' Home Ml
alonur) amlety Halt T.ukn Oil), Hur
rltt It Ijine), Oruir Andrew, Uiura
J Adam, Ogili n Mabel I.amli und
Mm J lon Welwler, Hlalnore, Ma
in I Dunn and Hllzuheth Hihvvuh, Mo
roni, Jeaunettn A linker, lllunthe
Ijimonte, Hprlng Clt) Hthel lah und
Pearl lill man, Jum Hon, Mollln Hnr
gent
Itev. J I.. Demaree. C C Hartxler,
A C. Otlvir, Jr T P. Cook, O. F,
Haaawellnr and !, K Curler aro re
I turned to their reapectlve conference
MUalonarleN I-ark, ISHxabeth Del
II Mar) ale, Kthel U ltankln
Principal of Prlco Academ) A C
Hoover Profeajior Hoover I from
I Montana
JMiTi'u niPitoian:T it
' HUMJI l (.OOII PUO(.HM
The Mutual Improvement aaaocln
tlon have arranged for an excellent
program ut the tabernuclr next Hun
day evening at 7 30 o'clock aharp and
the public la cordially Invited The
program follow
Opening Hone Congregation.
1 Pra)cr,
, Violin Solo Krneat fJrlfflth
I Clarinet Holo Klmer KJ, litrnm
I Piano Solo Mm. Kdlth Martin
' Addrexs on the Mutual Improve-
ment aaaoclatlon reading coureoMlaa
Mattle Htrong
Heading MIm Agnca Macl.ean
I Addroa. Water Sanitation' Dr
I It K. Cloward
I Piano Holo Mia 7clla Fauiett
Ilentdlctlon
WILL JAM AN EIGHT- I
HOUR LAW THROUGH I
Democratic Leaders of House and I
Senate Draft Bill At Behest of i M
President Wilson and Present It !
WASHINGTON, D. C, Auk. 31. If congress enn pass nn eight ( H
hour law before next Saturday midniKht there will be no railway 'M
strike. President Wilson and the administration leaders in both , H
houses arc bending every energy to bring about the passage of tho J b
law. All the rest of the president's program has been for the pres- llffl
cut cast aside. 1 M
W. G. Lee, president of the Brotherhood of Railway Trnlnmcn,
told the senate committee on Interstate commerce this morning 3jal
that if the railroad employes could get this Inw they would be will j u
ing to arbitrate everything else. Immediately there was a scurry- ,
Ing of administration men to agree on a law and jam it through. M
Follow ing is the tcxtof the bill agreed upon by the men : 1
A bill to establish an eight-hour day for employes of carriers M
engaged in interstate and foreign commerce and for other pur- ?,. M
poses. lie it enacted, etc., that, 1 M
Section 1. Beginning December 1, 1016, eight hours shall in ' ,. M
contracts for labor and service bo deemed n day's work and tho aH
measure or standard of a day's work for the purpose of reckoning J flftfl
the compensation for services of all employes who are now or here- j jl
after may be employed by a common carrier or by a railroad which 1 JfLB
is subject to the provisions of the act of February 1, 1887, entitled Jflfl
"An 'Act to Regulate Commerce," as amended, and who are now or H
may hereafter bo actually engaged in any capacity in the opera- IBlIM
tlon of trains used for the transportation of persons or property jnaM
on railroads, from any state or trritory of the United States or IHI
District of Columbia, to -any other statu or territory of the United mUaM
States or District of Columbia, or from one placo In a territory to 'jPHH
another place in the same territory or from any place in the Unl- iBI
ted States through a foreign country to any other place in the Hial
United States. VH
Section 2, That the president shall appoint a commission of llaH
three, which shall observe the operation and effect of tho institu- 1mB
tion of tho eight-hour standard work Any as above defined and the HH
facts and conditions affecting the relations between such common wl
carriers and employes during a periotl of not less than six months IfljH
nor more than nino months, In the discretion of the commission, IPhU
and within thirty days thereafter said commission shall report its HM
findings to the president and congress; that each member of the iSI
commission created by tho provisions of this act shall recelvo such il
compensation as may be fixed by the president. The sum of $25,- . I!
000 or so much thereof as may be necessary be, and hereby is, np- , 11
preprinted out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appro- h fLH
printed for the necessary and proper expenses incurred in connec- . Kaaaaaal
tlon with the work of the commission, including sularies, per diem, , Q
traveling expenses of members and employes and rent, furniture, liH
office fixtures and supplies, books, salaries and other necessary lll
expenses, the same to bo approved by tho chairman of tho commis- Hjjl
olon and audited by the proper accounting officers of the treasury. I (ll
Section it. That pending the report of the commission herein Ifll
provided for, and for a period of thirty days thereafter, tho com- ftll
pensntion of railway employes subject to this act for a standard Ml
day'H wage and for all necessary time in excess of eight hours shall 91
be at not less than the prorata rate for such standnrd eight-hour !9H
work day. isbMN
Section 4. That any persoir violating any provision of this act SwiaaM
shall bo guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined ifll
not less than one hundred dollnrs und not more than one thousand iMaM
dollars, or imprisoned not to exceed one year, or both. fufll
The bill, it was said, was submitted to the brotherhood chiefs 'JlB
and nppiovcd by them. Then it was turred over to tho house llH
leaders, with orders to put it through the house tomorrow. qlaaaaaal
Railroad brother hood leaders explained tonight that the strike JIB
order, if not rescinded, would be simultaneously effective through- isiBi!
out the country Monday morning nt 7 o'clock, Eastern time. The olB
hour named in the orders distributed among the trainmen in the fflfll
Eastern time belt is 7 o'clock, while different forms went to those tfll
in the other belts designating 0 o'clock for tho men in central llflH
time, 5 o'clock in mountain time and 4 o'clock in Pacific time. taaaaP
UTAH RAILROAD MANAGERS HOPING FOR THE BEST, liH
BUT STRIKE PREPARATIONS ARE BEING MADE fRH
SALT LAKE CITY, Sept. 1. Although greater optimism pre- If S
vailed in most quarters the managers of the local steam railroads Mfil
continued preparations yesterday far n general strike of tho bro- ' jiB
therhood members next Monday. The most ominous step, perhaps, ftlaaaaaaaal
was the closing of the hotels of Yellowstone Park and the concert- tlll
ed effort to clear tho park of all tourists taken In by the various nltaaaaM
railroads. rfl
More than four hundred tourists taken into the park by the jliaH
railroads were hustled to the various gateways yesterday and MnklHai
started on the way homeward. Tho hotels were closed as quickly BBiH
as the visitors were gone and the hotel employes will bo taken BlffiH
from the park today. It is understood that several of the camps HoPS
will be kept open until the regular closing date, September 15th, HuH&n
for the accommodation of automobile parties. ViHfffliJa1
