MR. MERCHANT.
An ad in The Eagle will bring buyer
and Mller together.
THS WEATKI3
Tonight and Friiiy, i:n'7 t
and unaotiied mez'Jtit.
mm
111
ANDPltOT
VOL XXX. NO. 203.
BRYAN, TEXAS, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1916.
PRICE t3 PER Af;U.a
:
TM King of QmamEm AhimisiEk
ttlmm
Cnscb
Is pare tsd whole:se
tnd keeps well ia warn
weather. V '
FRESH STOCK
'
Hardy Newton
: Willi u
DRY.N LAD MEETS
IQRRIBLE
DEATH
Nine Year Old John 0. Conlta Jr.
Killed by Train at Humble Wai
on Vialt There to Relative!.
STRIKE BILL BEIf.G
ricor;
RUSHED I
GRESS
In Abdicating His Throne King Constantine Re
linquished the Government of Greece to the
Crown Prince Former Premier Venizelos
Will Be the Power Behind the Throne and the
New Government Will, be Favorable to the
Allies The Rumanians Are Making Still
Further Progress in Transylvania The Rus-
M- sians Cantured 298 Officers and 15.501 Men.
' 'Many of Whom Were Germans Bulgaria
Has Declared War on Rumania No Change
on the French rront.
EVERY OOr.lAn WArJTO
the best things for the table if the price be not
prohibitive. She dm have them by trading
at this grocery. -We have solved the prcblc i
of how to combine high quality with low pri
ces. Give us a trial next month and we will
show you. " ,
Eight Hour Law Will 8ave the Day.
Mutt Be In Effect. Saturday
-Night ft Midnight
The entire city waa ibocked this
morning when It waa anaounced tbat
young John D. Conlee, Jr., had been
killed by a train at Humble, Texae.
Information regarding bow the acci
dent happened la meager Inasmuch as
the telephone service there waa bad.
All tli. mWImiI.h that MnM twi
, 7 v. 7 .v. I " " Z.A," ly President Wilson and accepted by
learned waa tbat the boy waa riding ' . .t .
on a wagon with bia ancle who llveej
. t-4r-aae a Boerthassr -Uwta
bit the wagon with tbe above resnlts.
' Little John Is about nine years old
, 4 and la the son of Mr. Will Conlee of
this city and a grandson of City Mar-
. (by Associated ltM.)
Washington, Sept 1 Bills to avsrt
tha railway strike havs been put on crown prince, with former Premier
London, Sept 1. King Conetantine
of Greece has abdicatsd, according to
the British official prsss represents-
tlve at Salonika.
The press representative says King
Constsntlns abdicatsd In favor of tha
the ws to passage In both houses of Venizelos ths power behind the
Congress-. Under special rules pro- 0,ranc. The new policy will be In so
vidlng for a vote not later than 4:30 with' the Entente Alllse. Pre
today the House took up the Adam- mtr Zaimls remaina at the head of
son eight hour bill, which Is approved the government
TEXAS COAL mm
.Hill
Reid Bros.
i 1'iviYiYifiniVuiivtrimAjm
HOUSES
THE USE OF MIkERS
Law Paesed by 34th Leglalature Re
quiring Waah Housee for Miners
la Effective Today.
rni rnrpnnr
LLW I
V.
IIIUlUllU...
warn.
(By Associated Press),
Austin. Texas, Sept. 1. The
law
WALK
T
passed by the Thirty-fourth Leglsla-
New Interurban Terminal at Dallas la
Opened to the Public Today It
Cost Million and a Half.
Twsnty-Four Hundred Texas' Coal
Miners Wslk Out on Strike This
Morning Ovsr Wages.
the brotherhood Issdsrs as
The Senate
"sstls-
Bulgaria at War With Rumania.
'London. Snot. 1 The Knmantans
commerce committee ! v.. nn-nniMi Petrnaenv. an lmpor-
bill waa introduced at 2 o'clock by Unt industrial center near Kronstadt
Senator Newtande. It contains a Transylvania, says the Rumanian war
provision empowering the Interstate "official statement Four German aero-
ahall John D. Conlee, he being named Commerce Commission to fix ached- planes were brought down and anoth-
for his grandfather. The boy, In com- u lee of wages on Interstate railways, er raptured. Paris tnnounree the
It was referred to the commerce com- French artillery wss very active last
mlttee and the Senate la expected to nlgbt on the Somme eertor. Tbe sur
rsmaln In session until ths whole sub- render of several Creek garrisons to
Ject is disposed of. Ithe committee which, baa taken over
The Adamson bill waa favorably re- administration of fart of Creek
inoussoa lour nunarea iciu com , mem equippea wun wasn nouses. AI- fp.inro nf h. nnaninr
miters, who were refused an Increase rter today those mine owners who I Th hniMinr I. trh nHM
In' wiges which they 'ware holding for, have not'cwipttner-wHh Jfchvltw are hetgHtVlttf" dlmersTonsTof pproxl- ''
pany with his grandmother went o
Humble only a few days since on a
visit to Mrs. Con Ire's daughter. Mrs.
U. 8 Edmonds, and hr son. lr. Rons-
er Conlee, and family.
Tbe remaina will be shipped thli 'ported
auemoqn 10 mis cut ana me lamar
of the child accompanied by bla
tatbnr, Mr. John D. Conlee, will meet
.them In Houston returning t) this
city at 12:30 tonight The funeral
will be held at tbe residence of Mr.
and Mrs. John D. Conlee tomorrow
morning at 10 o'clock, and Interment
-will be Invtbe City cemetery.
Tha Eagle Joins with the many
friends of this family In extending
sympathy at aurh a trying time.
fV
RIV. WHELER RETURNED.
sssSBsasBsssvasissB
Rev. C. C. Wheeler, pastor of tha
Free IUptlst cburch of thla city, re
turned home thla morning from a
two weeka evangelistic campaign. He
reports good revivals both at Keith
In Grimes county and Commanrhe,
Texss. Rev. Wheeler preached a
week at each of these places with tha
following results: Keith 11 profes
sions. I reclamations and 11 addi
tions to the church. Commanche
there were 29 professions, 7 reclama
tions and 25 additions to the cburch.
by ths House eommittes,
which amended it to make the eight
hour provision effective January 1st
Ths bill wss Immediately reported
tha House. In tha meantime the rules
Macedonia, waa reported In Renter
Salonika dlspalchea. The same dis
patch saya there has been fighting
(By Associated Press.
Fort Worth. Texss, 8ept. 1. Two
Texas
(Br Associated Press)
Dallas, Texas, Sept 1. Formal
opening of Dallas' new lnterurban
,, i i
ur, requeue mine ownera ana op- terminal elation, the largest of Its
(orators to provide wash houses for 'kind In tha United Stales, waa arhml.
the minora, became effective today. Inid mr todav. whra th iHr tatM.
C. W. Woodman, state labor commie-ting, Wfth all Ita conveniences, waa to
Nloner. ssya practically all of the be thrown- omn to th nuhltr for in.
mlnee In tbe state have been equipped IgpecUon and general use. The build-
wim this convenience. ing WM recently completed at a cost
A abort time ago Commissioner -'0f 11,500,000. First cars on ail Inter
Woodman made an Inspection of the Urban llnea out of Dallas to be oner-
jtnlnes of the state and found most of Lted from this station waa another
in
walked out on a strike this morning.
FURTHER APPLI
S
RECEIVED
Mlable to proaecutlon. A heavy flnejmately half a block. The remainder
n provided for violation of the law. of the block on wMch tha hntlrtlnr
There la no disposition on the part of gtanda ia used for trackage and car
the elate, it la aald, to punish those -sheds. With the exception of the
operatora who desire to comply with -first floor; on which Is located walt-
the act
No Further Appllcationa for Dis
charge of Students In National
Guard Received.
r
t
(By Associated Press)
Brownsville, Texaa, Septal. No
PLENTY OF CASH III
lng and baggage rooms, ticket offices
and trainmen's quarters, almost tha
STATE 1HSW
entire building ia need for office pur-fposes.-
I There are trackage facilities snder
rover to handle twenty-four cars at
'one time. These tracks will be used
.by the, trains of the North Texaa
(Traction Company,- tbe Texaa Trae-
xojbetwee, .......Si ."fcr H""
committee held a meeting and favor-
'Creek volunteers recently organlied
to assist the Greek
regulars, who
i wars resist In a the Hulcariana in
ably reported a hitch In the rule pro- WllMldonl4. n, French troopa Inter-1
viding ror two hours' debate on te ned rriaon marched out
bill and tha vote on tha bill Itself and of gjonVa.
any amendments In the House st 4:30. 1 t batUes es.'erday the Ruaslsns
Ths members of tha rules committee captured 291 officers and 15.501 men.
aald under thla rule tha bill should of which 2.400 wera Germans, says
pass tha House ahortly after 5 Fetrogred. Bulgaria has declared war
from service of collcgo students in
tha National guard or guardsmen
with famlllea have been received, ac
cording to the war department at
Comptrollers Department With
Four Milliona on Hanel.
Traction Company.
The building, which
the Dallas lnterurban
la owned by
Terminal Aa-
(Br Associated Press) "sociatlon, Is regarded as aa example
Austin. Texaa. 8Dt L With ftlV.' J k.Lt.. sl.fAU.J .
JT J 'Wir S Proxlmauiy four mllUo. dollar. In,cwt, conatnactlon. Excavation w.
appllctlon. filed prev.ou. to tha new I h ta tn6 ,ut, maj mct4 m mT m
order would be acted on by the South- (on of whlch ,, t0 enilt of
era department atFort Sam Houston, general revenue fund and one million pMr fonr ,n0Bu,B ahead of
0 U Credit Of the available School rntr.rt .niw-lflr.tlnn.
o'clock.
Efforts are still being mads to In
duce the brotherhoods te) call off tha
strike, but thsy are standing firm and
will not do so unless the bill becomes
law by Saturday midnight
Ethel: "I waa taken In to dinner
by that western gentleman you Intro
duced to me. He was quite gallant and
remarked upon my birdlike appetite."
Hor Friend: "Well, ho should be a
good Judge on that point dear; ha
runs an ostrich farm In California."
Boston Transcript.
on Rumania, according to neuters
Salonika correspondent Artillery
bombardments continue, but there Is
nothing Important In the Balkan situ
ation, ssya Paris. The Germane pen
etrated tha British defenses at two
polnte between Glnchy and Hlghwood
after five successive attacks last
night London announrea.
.'She bellevea everything ha tells
her." "Yes, but 1 understand ha does
ot toll her very much." Detroit Free
Press.
DALLAS rriURDER LTYS
0
TERY IS :
Murderer of Miss Zola Kramer Ad
mlta Killing Merchant at Lisbon,
Nsar Dallas, In April.
(By Associated Press.)
Dallas, Texaa, Sept. 1. Houston
Wagoner, the negro under aentenca
of de,th for the murder of Mlsa Kola (ary and March.
J
Cramer, a trained nurse, Isst March,
nas made a written conression to ine
fund, tha new fiscal year of tbe state i
comptroUera department opened to-J our quality and aervlca enable ua
day. I
to offer von tha verr best In tha sro-
This Is tha first time In a number ry line. Clva ua a trial during Sep-
joais uh me nas neon sucn, tember and wa will do our utmost to
healthy balance at the beginning of pteue you. Jesse Hensarllng.
the fiscal year, and there are slight mm
AMUSEMENTS.
Dont forget that the Dixie offers
for tonight one ot the richest attrac
tion a ever aeen In this house, It la
a magnificent Morosco-Paramount
Special creation "The Making of
Madelena," a gorgeous production,
rich In massive settings with lustrous
draperies, and features the famous
beauty Edna Goodrich. Thla la guar-
chances of a deficit Tha money on
hand will be ample to meet the
stat's obligations until the tax collec
tions begin to pour Into tha state
treasury. Collections commence In
December and heavy remittances are)
mada In that month, January, Febru-
wwwwiwiiiiw(iwwwwmwm killing of W, II. Humphrey, an aged
store keeper at Lisbon, near this
WE DO ALL KINDS OF
REPAIR VORIi
a
Repair Furniture, Dlcyclea, Motorcycles, Harness, Automobile Tops and Seats,
put on Automobile Seat Covers and Tops and put rubber Urcs on Dabj Carriages, Crate
and Tack Furniture and other household goods for shipment, box and ship pianos,
etc. In fact we render a varied service and do our work thoroughly. We guarantee
any work intrusted to us. ,
. - Furniture for shipment must be crated by one who understands the work or It wU
surely get badly smashed up- Tartles wishing to store furniture can get space In our
warehouse. ,
10 f.ipaisk a 0
juJ-i-rirj-u'Juuuu'JJ'A-WJLrr i. n 1 ' 1 ..... .
ally, early In Afrll. according to the
Scanty officials. Humphreys waa
Oaten on tha head with a atkk ot
stove wood until ho waa killed and
bla daughter, Aire. Bertha Trower.
who wss living In tha rear of tha
store with her father, was beaten Into
Insensibility and left for dead- No
data has ftt been set for tha hanging
ot Wagoner for tha Cramer murder.
e ssi e n
COTTON RECEIPTS.
Following art tha cotton racslpts
la Bryan op to noon today:
nrick warehouse 1651
1'nton warehouse ..1030
Lawrence warehouse -...1701
Total ,.42
Street cotton sold today at 15V4
centa; cotton aeed eold for $3 $.00,
On tha asms data last year cotton
sold on tha atrenta o! Bryan for . 1
cents, and cotton seed sold for $11.00.
There also became available today
appropriations amounting to about
aeven million dollars for tha support anteed to be one ot Paramounta teat
ot tha stats government for tha fiscal
year ending August 31, 1917.
"Bertie aeema to have more ready
money since na became a futurist
Does that mean that ha la making it
payr "It means that ha haa applied
tha futurist principle to hla dealings
with tradesmen." Puck. '
attractions. We advise everyone to
aee thla excellent offering. For to
morrow afternoon, there will ba a
mixed bill consisting of . tha ll'U
chapter of "The Goddess," In vhlch
; Earls Williams and Anita 8teurt ar
' featured. In addition to t jla there
will ba a complete cheaje ot pro
gram at 6:30 p. m.
VE DOin VAIiT Y01Q DAIS ACCODIiT
Dt Ve Do Vtt Yczr Attc:ti:a I
We want to remind you that we sell every
thing for the home. .We would like to show
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
VJ. T. JAttEO, Furnlturo
MVsMsasWeMAMBja
