V
COTNTY
TON
SOUTH BUSINESS
'.Auditor. County
VOL XXXIII NO 21
WAUSEON. OHIO, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1916
$1.60 PER YEAR
ii Kil!JU)U.l Nil
r
'i
SUCCESSFUL CHAUTAUQUA
Program For Last Four Days The Children As Stars
on The Sixth Day Work of Local Committee
The Benefit to The Community
Monday the fourth day of Wau
neon's 1916 Chautauqua, brought a
program which will remain long in
the mmory of those who heard ana
aaw Chaplain Kiplingar'a talk atthe
morning hour on "The Ohio State Re
formatory" brought home to the peo
ple of this vicinity some very practi
cal and interesting information con
cerning one of our great State insti
tutions and gave them some concep
tion of the magnificent work be
ing done by Doctor Leonard the sup
erintendent of that institution who
has attained a national reputation as
an expert in the real reformation of
men. The music furnished in the af
ternoon and evening by the "Universi
ty boys" was veiy enjoyable the pro
gram of Hawaian Music in the even
ing together with the exhibition of
Hawaiian Musical instruments was
cspecally interesting and was. highly
appreciated by the majority of the
audience. Dr. James S. Kirtley de
monstrated himself a master in his
knowledge and conception of boyhood
in his lecture on "The Barefoot King
dom." This lecture ranks among the
first in real practical value to the
community and society at large of
any of the lectures given on this sea
son's program; it is impossible to re
produce in this article even a small
portion of this splendid lecture, for
tunately there was a large audience
present and when a number of per
sons went to Dr. Kirtley at the close
of the lecture to' express their appre
ciation and the desire that they might
have the lecture in permanent form
to refer to. Dr. Kirtley informed them
that the essential parts of the lec
ture were contained in a book that he
has published entitled "That Boy of
Yours" and .that he would so inform
the local book dealers. With their
character stic enterprise both Lyon
& Company and Read & Wager have
ordered a supply of these books thus
making available to every parent in
this community the most valuable
suggestions and council ncemrng
boy and girl life possible to obtain
anywhere. ,
Montraville Wood's Popular Scien
tific Lecture -and Demonstration on
Monday evening wavdeclared by sev
eral tof the business men who were
in attendance, as worth the entire
price of the season ticket. It is im
possible to adequately describe this
marvelous lecture; more interesting
than the exhibition of the tieftest of
magicians and more marvelous than
most mystical of the magicians work
were the actual acchievements of
modem scientific research which were
demonstrated while the possibilities
of what may yet be brought to pass
as suggested by what was demon
strated was fairly bewildering.
Tuesday, the fifth day was band
day and Pallaria with his band de
lighted the afternoon and evening au
dience with good music. Some of those
who heard Ferullo with his band last
season were of the opinion that Fer
ullo is the better of the two leaders;
however that is a matter of opinion
and the methods of the two leaderj
are quite different in character; both
of them seem to be able to get splen
did results. On Tuesday evening Mr.
Whitney announced that he had re
ceived instructions to go to Norwood
to take charge of the chautauqua at
that place and that Mr, Whitehead
the publicity manager of the Redpath
Chautauqua system would take his
place. Mr. Whitney has won many
friends in Wauseon and it was with
real regret that the Wauseon people
heard the announcement. Mr. White
head proved himself a very capable
and pleasing superintendent and won
many friends who would like to have
him return next year. '
Wednesday was the "great day of
The Feast" from the local point of
view, because of the fact that on
Wednesday evening, the Juniors who
had been under-the efficient training
of Miss De Groff assisted by Miss
Ruth Brown were to appear in the
"Mother Goose Festival."
The children were not the only
ones however to hold a place' in the
spot light of popular favor. Many
of those who attended the morning
hour lecture were of the opinion that
Dr. KipHnger's last lecture on "The
Rights and Reasonable Wantp of the
Prisoner" was the best of the series.
The "American Girls" proved to be
the most enjoyable musical attrac
tion 'of. the season and Fredrick W.
Maurer who closed the program for
the day held an audience that had
already been surfeited with enter
tainment in rapt attention while he
I told the thrilling story of his "Fight
for Life in the Arctic."
I To us of Wauseon the main feature
of the day was the Mother Goose
Festival and as the little folks imper
sonating the far famed characters of
t.he Mother Goose rhymes stepped from
I "the. book" and appeared in panto
nine' and graceful movement the
j thermometer of enjoyment ose to
"summer heat," and in the hearts of
some of us to "fever heat." Of course
they all performed their parts splen
didly and the Wauseon children won
from Miss De Groff the compliments
contained in the statement that the
children of Wauseon responded more
quickly and enthusiastically to her
efforts than any other on her circuit
this season.
A special feature of the Wednesday
evening entertainment came in the
way of a very pleasant surprise to
many: At the request of Mr. Whit
ney the Davis Sisters, Eunice, Phylis
and Dorothy gave an extra number
on the program under the direction of
Mrs. Neville Stewart who has been
giving these charming little girls
training in physical culture and who
i j xi i ; j. mi
Iywi t..e pmno cCo..y.i....t. x ..e . Dr jj Rorick of The State
T . iTi l T , r7 rflTBoMd of Administration has recent
dance which took the audience fairly
from their feet; in response to an
encore the girls gave a rope skipping
exercise that was also very graceful
ly executed. These little girls show
remarkable talent that presages great
attainments in the future and reflects
credit upon their teachers.
Thursday, the last day brought
Thomas Brooks Fletcher, editor of
the Marion Tribune. By previous ar
rangement, due to the courtesy of
the management of the Marion Tri
bune Publishing Company Mr. Fletch
er gave a stirring and very helpful
talk to a group of business men of
the town following a luncheon tender
ed to him at Hotel Blair.
The rapid change from the lunch
eon to the lecture platform did not
seem to phase Mr.. Fletcher in the
LIGHT OFPUBLICITY
Dr. E. H. Rorick Hits Upon Novel
Method Of Attracting Attention to
Management of State Institutions
Deadlocks In State Board of Admin
istration Hinder Management.
ly let in the light of publicity on the
workings .of one of the State Insti
tutions and incidentally upon the
working of the State Board of Admin
istration by refusing to sigh parole
sheets for about sixty girls submit
ted by the' head of the Industrial
School for Girls. Doctor Rorick inves
tigated some former paroles and dis
covered that twentyeight girls had
given birth to illegitimate children
and the maternity expenses had been
borne by the State; this was the rea
son given by the Doctor for refusing
to sign the paroles referred to above.
The Doctor thought that it was
about time that the people, of the
State were apprised of the. fact that
there is something wrong with the
parole system and also that the pres
ent bi-partisan board of manage-
least for he started in as vigorously ment while it bar lities to
as if he were gust beginning. Mr.,gome extent in the management of
xrcH.u i9 wij cuiwi i State institutions also bars the-ac-
cratic newspaper and his political complishment of very much in the
preferences quite naturally colored ,,. r t;j .( ..,,,..
the first part of his talk but when he these institutions. Nearly every
struck into the full swing of his lec-1 tion that comes preSent
ture on the "Martyrdom of Fools he b d Ut on and tfc rft jg
nroo "aitMnlir mf4- AvA lYloni! all .... r -
w cij ci ill LJi v Kicav iv iiiuiij v.-
ed his lecture the best of the pro
gram.
To "attempt to describe Miss Niel
sen and her accompanying artists for
any but an accomplished musical cri
tic seems to us an almost hopeless
task. Miss Alice Nielsen one of the
deadlock on important questions. At
the present this board is divided on
probe of the girl's home and an in
vestigation of the State Penitentiary;
there are also several important ap
pointments held up. Dr. Rorick's
idea is that the' legislature should
first American Prima Donnas with alKQ,j ar.A nrnviA0 n nTnmiaSinn f
world wide reputation in a musical re
cital in Wauseon is an event to be
talked of for years to come; her won.
derful voice and charming person-
three members; by so doing holding
up of important business by political
squabbles will be avoided. JNewspa-
af.rIU' v?'ce. ,ana c,narmlnS Perso?-:pers throughout the State have com
ainy tnriuea ner audiences ana maae ented on" the attitude of Doctor
them wish for more; very graciously ( Rorkk in refusing to sign the paroles
Miss Nielsen responded to every en- and the Doctor himself has been sub
core with the beautiful melodies dear, . ted to some rather gevere criticism
to the hearts of all, whether trained but his purpose seems to have been
to appreciate the classical m music ' o let the u ht of publicity upon the
or not. Her piano accompanyist, Mr.! - ,u; tv,,st,,f0 i,;f
Reddick was an artist in his line and ! tiong and their management, he cer
Mr. Kirk Smith the viohncello artist :i u0 00ji j hi;.VB
pleased the audience with his artistic has eiliered good service to the State
playing of that instrument. hv so dome. Later Doctor ttorick
Miss Nielsen was the recipient ofi- the paroles, but the light had
been let in and his purpose accom
plished.
From the point of view of just the
average citizen it looks as though the
many courtesies from the Wauseon
committee which she very graciously
received and after leaving town sent
letters of appreciation to those from
1 V 1 J A
wnum Bucn letters were reueiveu. a., . v. , ., , .
very elaborate basket of flowers 1 b'-Partisan board doe sn t bar pol tcs
taken to. the platform at the close of ?omemaTge
UUlia 111 OUVll w w-
Miss Nielsens second group of songs
were a tribute from her sorority sis
ters, Mrs. N. E. Stewart and Miss
Helen Hartmann, the flowers in the
sorority colors and the piece was the
work of the Wauseon .Floral Com
pany. "
(Continued on page 4)
! the best and most business like -eon
duct of the public business and Doc
tor Rorick has shown his good citi
zenship by the action he has taken,
Tribune Advertisinr Get The
Best Results-
FOUTY FAMILY REUNION.
The Fouty ' Family held their
Eleventh Annual Reunion with Mr.
and JMrs. Arthur Strohl at Woodard's
Grove, two miles west of Napoleon.
Those present were: Mrs. F. M.
Fouty and son Vern, Mts. 'Marion
Fouty Jr., and baby; Elmer Fouty and
family, Win. ' Fouty and family of
Summerset, Michigan; Mrs. Port Bur
ton and two daughters of Cambridge,
Michigan; Clell Fouty of Toledo;
Chas. Fouty and family, Mr. and Mrs.
Fred Driscoll of Adrian, Michigan;
Geo. Hawkins and family; Clarence
Hawkins and family of Morenci,
Mich; Mr. Harry Snyder and family
of Napoleon, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs Wm
Nutt and Mr. and Mrs. Clem 'Nutt,
Harve Taylor and family, L. S. Fouty
and family of Delta; Chas. Baker and
family, Theodore Fouty and family;
Dora Fouty and son Grant; Val Sny
der and family, Ed. Perkins and fami
ily, Chas. Gee and family, Mr. and
Mrs. Tully Cammarn, Mrs. Fred Gil
sew, Mrs. Frank Whitesell of Wau
seon, Ohio, Mr. and Mrs. Len, Stanley
and son Lorn; Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Stanley and daughter Mildred of Col
umbiana county. ; There were about
ninety seated at the long table laden
with many good things to eat for all
had brought well- filled baskets.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. Strohl,
asking God's blessing on the family
and ' thanking him for his proiden-
tial care during the year.
1 he afternoon was spent with a
short program and visiting. Officers
elected were: Mr. Val Snyder, Presi
dent; Grant Fouty, Secretary; Dora
Fouty, Treasurer. Late in the after
noon all joined in singing "God Be
With You 'Till We Meet Again."
Closing prayer by Theodore Fouty
and as good byes were being said all
declared it was the best reunion ever.
CO. H. REUNION, r
Reunion of Co. H. 100th Reeimeht
0. V. I met in G. A. R. Hall in Wau
seon, Ohio, August 24th, 1916. After
a sumptuous dinner the meeting was
called to order by the rresulent J. F.
Holland and minutes of last meeting
read. Members of Co. H. who were
present were J. P. Holland, Henry
Beaver, Wm. Weir, Sylvanus Walters
and Allen Shadle. A number of Hon
orary Members - and a few visitors.
In respect to their Comrade, Campbell
Bayes it was voted unanimous to
adopt his entire family unanimous to
members. The election of officers for
the ensuing year was: J. P. Holland
President and Allen Shadle Secretary
and Treasurer.
An interesting program was car
ried out and. it was voted that the re
union be held at Wauseon, G. A. R.
Hall the fourth Thursday in August,
1917. A letter written by Comrade
Jesse L. Pelton of Sharon, Barber
County, Kansas, August 24th regret
ting that he could not get here on ac
count of poor health, is almost eighty
one years old, came too late to be
read at the meeting..
NOTICE.
- To the patrons of the Union De
livery: No deliveries Thursday and
Friday afternoons of Fair week. Get
your groceries in the morning.
21-1-p S. O. ROWE, Proprietor.
USE McCALL'S DRESS PATTERNS
A Most Fashionable and Season
able Showing; of Ladies Ready
ToWear Apparel and Accessories
Civic Improvement Committee To An
nounce Awards of Premiums in
Beauty Contest Benefit Moving
Picture Show Seats For The
Parks.
The judges selected bv the Boosters
Club to act in the WauseonBeauty
Contest inaugerated by the Civic Im
provement Committee have been
quietly and persistently at work view
ing the Wauseon landscape o'er and
noting the improvements being made
as well as those that have been made
One of these judges has said that
the improvements made in many of
the residential sections of the town
are really remarkable: the contest
has met with the hearty co-operation
of the citizens of Wauseon and the
result -is a neater, more attractive
and beautiful town than ever .
The Civic Improvement Committee
are Perfecting plans for the announce
ment of the decisions of the judges
and the award of the premiums and
the date set is Thursday September
14th. The place will be the Princess
Theatre, where a Benefit Program
wul be given and the announcements
and awards made.
There will be a special program for
that evening of films, educational and
entertaining and the decision of the
Judges together with the" awarding
f Jl 1 j . 1 ...
ui me premiums logemer wun some
possible special features by local tal
ent will make an event which every
member of the community jean enjoy.
The proceeds over expenses' will "go to
the Civic ' Improvement Committee to
help defray the cost of six iron park
seats which the committee have pur
chased and placed in the parks. The
ladies noted the fact that while the
parks looked very inviting with their
grass and shade they offered no place
for rest unless people were willing to
sit on the grass; they knew that the
Chautauqua would bring many People
from nearby towns and the surround
ing country into Wauseon and they
reasonea tnat some seats in the parks
would add to their" comfort and con
venience' and go' far toward adding
to the atmosnhere of VinsninlitTr
. ' L1H.11 WttOC VAOibVXO I111U IICIC.
The ladies acted at once, secured the
seats and had them placed in. the
parks and by so doing they have earn
ed the approval of all the citizens of
the town and the benefit entertain
ment ought to be largely patronized.
Such activity and enterprise is what
makes the town progress along im
portant lines. , 1
NOTICE G. A. R.
On account of the National Encamp
ment and Regimental reunions of
some of our comrades, there will be
no Post meeting held until the 4th
Saturday of September, 23rd 1916.
By order of Commander.
- P. H. BAYES, Adj't.
THE FARM CREDIT BILL
Congress has passed it and the President has signed
it. So far so good. But the underlying principle, of
getting a loan under the regulations of this new bill, is
after all, a good reputation, ability and resources upon
which to obtain the loan.
The same old rule; the rule that has determined the
making of any loan from time immemorial.
Any farmer, any man, - can build up for himself a
credit standing that will entitle him to the confidence
and the financial assistance of his fellow men.
As the bank is one of the principal institutions
through which men build up their credit rating we invite
you to become a regular customer of the :
FIRST NATIONAL MIC
WAUSEON, OHIO
IF YOU WOULD BEEN
A HAPPY MAN."
"If you would been a happy man. :
Una vear a bleasant schmile,
Schust take a picnic now und den, -Und
rest vonce in a while!"
The foregoing is a bit of German
philosophy with - which we "can all j
agree. The Congregational folks are
going to take the picnic this year in
McClarren's Grove on Labor Day,
September 4. If you are interested in
the church or Sunday School, no mat
ter if you are. not a regular attend
ant, you will be Welcome to this pic
nic. The , "bleasant schmile" and a
little something to eat are all that
will be necessary.
; This is going to be a home-coming
time, a time of reunion, and of good
fellowship. All kinds of games for all
kinds of people are being planned.
These things and many others will
combine to make it the happiest pic
nic you ever went to, so get in on it!
Conveyances will be furnished.
- 67th REGT. REUNION. '
The reminant of the Sixty Seventh
Ohio Volunteer Veteran Infantry
Regiment will hold their Annual Re
union at Fayette next week, Thurs
day, September ?th. Every comrade
who can is urged to be present, a good
mnner, a nne program and the meet
ing with the old boys who -wore the
"Blue." If impossible for you to be
there write a letter to the secretary
M. P. Sanderson, Berkey, Ohio, to be
read at the meeting.
AT THE FAIR GROUND.
Manager Caddell informs us that
he will run a moving picture show at '
the Fair grounds each afternoon dur
ing the Fair. There will be a change
of : films daily . something attractive
and. interesting. A fine place to rest
and be entertained while you rest.
Performances . at- the "Princess" in
Wauseon every evening by "The Ideal
Players", change of program ; every
evening. '
Constipation the Father of Many Ills.
Of the numerous ills that affect hu
manity a large share start with con
stipation. Keep your bowels regular
and they may be avoided. When a
laxative is needed take Chamberlain's
Tablets. They not only move the bow
els but improve' the appetite and
strengthen the digestion. .Obtainable
everywhere.
Tribune Advertisements Gets the
Best Results. ' 7-
Fair Week Exhibit
Ladies (lew Fall Suits
As for QUALITY and STYLE these suits embrace
satisfaction. For instance they are composed of
fine wool poplin in Black, Navy and Green, lining of
fancy dyed silks, while the coats are . semi-long with
flaring and graceful bottoms, trimmed either in
Velvet or Fur also much braid and many buttons
are used. The collars are rather manish, large but
attractively and effectively designed. Skirts full
and plain.
' Prices $16.50 to $27.00
SHOP EARLY See These Splendid Suit Values
Our New Fall Dress Goods and
Fabrics Make Charming Apparel
The most conservative and dependable fabrics
will be Serges, Poplins, Ottomans, Sheppard Checks
and Novelty Fabrics. ,
See Our Display Fair Week
A Master Milliner
Trimmer and Designer
You will be glad to learn and we take pleasure
to announce this SEASON, one who needs no in
troduction as a MILLINER. She can't help it, just
naturally born that WAY; known possibly more
extensively throughout the COUNTY than any
other of like characteristics
Miss Sallie Grubb 1
who will have full charge of our MILLINERY
DEPARTMENT and wishes to greet her many
patrons and our general patronage. Her work as
in the past establishes QUALITY and STYLE your
CONFIDENCE, your SATISFACTION.
Ladies Neckwear at Present
Cape Effects, Stunning and Charming Roll Collars
very Attractive Pique Vestees Popular
The Newest Ideas from the World's Greatest
Market, New York City.
Prices 25c to 75c
Make Our Store Your Headquarters Fair Week
You Will Find Conditions Desirable, Interesting
; "" ' ' ' , " and Pleasing
The Spencer-Edgar-Vollmer Go.
. Wauseon's Exclusive Dry Goods Store
Our Prices Popular
Gauged and Backed
By Quality, Style
and Publicity.
THERE -ARE REASONS
-r
Our Store at your
service for Fall. Youv
will be pleased with
the displays of NEW
FALL FURNITURE.
Visit , us any day.
IVES-PIKE CO.
in mfiii e for fa
Where Quality is Supreme and Prices
Always Reasonable
Real Economy
lies in the purchase of Bed room furniture here.
Never such a fine display in our city.
- - - - .... f .-. .v .. .,. y n .-y. - J..j. ig.
What new pieces of
Furniture do you need
in your home this
fall? Think it over
then come and see our
excellent display of
Fall Furniture. You
will be pleased.
Are You Moving
Itato the New
Home this Fall?
Genuine brass beds guaranteed not to tarnish.
$9.90 to $30.00
: Metal Beds $2.50 to $23,25
Handsome in design and finish
Wood Beds $10.00 to $24.75 :
in Quartered Oak, Birds-eye Maple, Gum-wood,
Mahogany, etc.
The Great Simmons Line
none more reasonable in price and
none better
you know,
Unequaled Values
you will find in our Fall display of ROCKERS. You
will admire them add the reasonable prices will ap
peal to you. Buy one for your home. $2.50 to $20.00
then come to our store for the
NEW DINING ROOM OUTFIT.
We are showing handsome new
Fall designs in all finishes. Of
course we sell the famous "Twin
Pedestal" tables and you will ,
not be satisfied with only the
latest. "Tilt Top Twin" the best
in dining tables.
$18.00 to $32.00
Others at $10.00 (to
v $18.50 r
fleet us at the Fair
Next Week
- j - i . .
We will greet our friends with
a fine display of FURNITURE
OF QUALITY- at the same
location in Floral Hall. -Make
our booth , your headquarters.;
We want to be of service to you.
We again give away, a handsome
brass-trimmed full sized bed
absolutely free. Register your
guess at our booth until 2 p. m.
Friday.
Do not forget to register your
guess.
Hves-Pike Go.
Do Not Carry The Baby
buy a carriage or cart for it. We show a fins line.
79cto $25.00
"T '
