THIRTIETH YEAR
THE RECORD OF CONGRESS
SHOWS SERVICE TO FARMERS
Remarkable Set Forth in A Letter by
President Wilson to Representative
A. F. Lever
MANY NEW LAWS ENCOURAGE AGRICULTURE
Farm Loan Act, Federal Reserve Bank, Provis
ions for Warehouse and Marketing
Facilities Only Part
WASHINGTON, Aug. 30—(Special)—
No administration bus ever done so
much to advance the agricultural In
terests of the United States as that of
President Wilson. The record is set
forth briefly and effectively in a letter
written by the president to Congress
man A. F. Lever, chairman of the com
mittee on agriculture of the house of
representatives, as follows:
The White House, Washington.
Aug. 11, 191 G.
My Dear Mr. Lever—lt has given me
much satisfaction to approve today the
bill making appropriations for the de
partment of agriculture for the fiscal
year ending June 30. 1017, and for oth
er purposes, because the bill not only
makes very generous provision for the
improvement of farm production In the
nation and for investigations and dem
onstrations in the field of the market
ing of farm crops aud of the organiza
tion of rural life, but also contains
three well conceived measures design
ed to Improve market practices and the
storage and financing of staple crops.
As the passage of this bill marks the
practical completion of an Important
part of the program for the betterment
of rural life which was mapped out at
the beginning of the administration, I
feel that I cannot let the occasion
pass without conveying to you and to
your associates In both houses my ap
preciation of the services rendered to
the nation In strengthening its great
agricultural foundations.
The record, legislative as well as ad
ministrative. is a remarkable one. It
speaks for Itself and needs only to be
set forth:
First.—Appreciation of the Impor
tance of agriculture has been shown
through greatly and Intelligently In
creased appropriations for its support
Second.—Particular pains have been
taken to foster production by every
promising means, and careful thought
has been given especially to the mat
ter of increasing the meat supply of
the nation.
Third.—Greatly Increased provision
has been made through the enactment
of the co-operative agricultural exten
sion act for conveying agricultural In
formation to farmers and for Inducing
them to apply It. This piece of legis
lation Is one of the most significant
and farreachlng measures for the edu
cation of adults ever adopted by any
government. It provides for co-opera
tion between the states and the fed
eral government. This is a highly Im
portant and significant principle. When
the act Is In full operation there will
be expended annually under Its terms,
from federal and state sources alone, a
total of over $8,000,000 In the direct
education of the farmer, and this
amount Is being and will be Increasing
ly supplemented by contributions from
local sources. It will permit the plac
ing In each of the 2.850 rural counties
of the nation two farm demonstrators
and specialists who will assist the
demonstrators In the more difficult
problems confronting them.
Fourth.—Systematic provision for the
first time has been made for the solu
tion of problems in that important half
of agriculture which concerns distribu
tion—marketing, rural finance and ru
ral organization.
Fifth.—Provision was made promptly
for the creation of an office of market*
and rural organisation, and the appro
priations for this office. Including those
for enforcing new laws designed to
promote better marketing, have been
increased to $1,200,000. The more dif
ficult problems of marketing are being
investigated, and plans are In opera
tion for furnishing assistance to pro
ducers of perishables through a market
JOHNSON RECEIVES OVATION
Congressman Albert Johnson Gets
Flattering Reception on His Re
turn Home Last Evening
Congressman Albert Johnson receiv
ed an ovation of which he may be
proud, upon his return home yester
day from the national capital. He was
met at Elma by a number of friends in
autos from Aberdeen, Hoquiam and
Montesano and escorted by them to his
home city.
Short addresses were made by the
congressman at Elma, Montesano and
Aberdeen en route. The cortege was
met at the Eighth street bridge by a
torchlight procession, headed by a
band, ami all marched to Heermans'
field, where Congressman Johnson
made a telling speech. Taken by and
large, It was such a reception as was
to be expected of the personal popu
larity of Mr. Johnson, many old friends
not at all In sympathy with some of
Tiis reactionary views taking part with
genuine good feeling.
ABERDEEN HERALD
EIGHT PAGES
news service. A sinillnr service for
live stock Interests will lie Inaugurated
during tlie year
Sixth. -Tlit' problem of securing the
uniform grading of staple crops, or
regulating dealings and traffic In them
of developing a bettor system of ware
houses and of providing more avail
able collateral for farm loans has been
successfully dealt with.
Seventh.—Under the cotton futures
act standards for cotton have been es
tabllslied. the operations of the fu
Hires exchanges have been put under
supervision, and the sale of cotton has
been placed on a firmer basis
Eighth.—The United States grain
standards act will secure uniformity
in the grading of grain, enable the
farmer to obtain fairer prices for bit
product and afford him an Incentive to
raise better grades of grain.
Ninth.—The United States warehouse
net will enable the department of ag
ricultnre to license bonded warehouses
in the various states. It will lead to
the development of better stornge fa
elllties for sraple crops and will make
possible the Issuance of reliable ware
house receipts, which will t>e widely
and en Ily negotiable.
Tenth.—Of no less importance for
agriculture uud for the national de
velopr.uMit Is t!;o federal aid road act
This measure will conduce to the es
tabllshmeut of more effective highway
machinery In eivch state, strongly In
fluence the development of good road
building along right lii.es, stimulate
larger production and better market
Ing, promote a fuller and more at
tractive rural life. i:(M greatly to the
convenience and economic welfare of
all the people and strengthen the na
tlonal foundations. The act embodies
sound principles of road legislation
and will safeguard the expenditure of
the funds arising under the act not
only, but will result in the more effl
c-lent use of the large additional sums
made available by states and locall
ties.
Eleventh.—The federal reserve act
benefits the farmer, as It does all the
other people of the nation, by guaran
teeing better banking, safeguarding the
credit structure of the country and
preventing panics. It takes particular
note of the special needs of the farmer
by making larger provision for loans
through national banks on farm mopt
gages and by giving farm paper a ma
turlty period of six months.
Twelfth.—lt was essential, however,
that banking machinery be devised
which would reach Intimately Into the
rural districts, that It sliuuld operate
on terms suited to the farmer's needs
and should be under sympathetic man
agement The need was for machinery
which would Introduce business meth
ods Into farm finance, bring order out
of chaos, reduce the cost of handling
farm loans. place upon the market
mortgages which would be a safe In
vestment for private funds, attract
Into agricultural operations a fair
share of the capital of the nation and
loan act
I am glad to have bad an opportunity
to take part In the execution of this
large program, which, 1 believe, will
result in making agriculture more prof
itable and country life more comforta
bin and attractive and therefore Insure
lead to a reduction of Interest. These
needs and these Ideals have been met
by the enactment of the federal farm
the retention In rural districts of an
efficient and contented population.
Faithfully yours.
WOODROW WILSON.
Hon. A. F. Lever, Chairman Commit
tee on Agriculture, House of Repre
sentatlves.
KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS
TO STAGE CONVENTION
To arouse interest in the campaign
10 enlist 100 members for the big class
the Knights of Pythias hope to put
through the latter part of this month,
an entertainment is to be provided
next Monday evening at which some
peculiar stunts will be pulled off. The
feature of the entertainment will be
a mock convention, at which candi
dates for various offices will be nomi
nated in the old-fashioned country
style of years ago, a feature afford
ing plenty of room for much noise and
fun. The committee in charge, many
of whom have participated in these
same old backwoods conventions, is
composed of P. W. Loomis, A. E. Gra
ham. Russell Mack, C. M. Cloud, Good
bar Jones, E. A. Olleman and W. H.
Tucker.
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Wood, who were
called here from San Francisco, on ac
count of the death of A. D. Wood, left
for their home Saturday. y
WOODROW WILSON LEAGUE MEETS TONIGHT
THE WOODROW WILSON LEAGUE WILL MEET TONIGHT IN THE CITY COUNCIL
CHAMBER AT 8 O'CLOCK. ALL ARE CORDIALLY INVITED
HON. W. E. CAMPBELL AND HON. PHIL J. MOURANT
OF HOQUIAM, WILL ADDRESS THE MEETING, AND TELL WHY THEY
ARE SUPPORTING WILSON
BIG DOINGS AT
COUNTY FAIR
Exhibits Being Placed-Race
Horses Practice Daily-Joy
Street Will Be Marvel
WILL BE OPEN EVENINGS
Sunday Is Fraternal Day-Man
to Be Married Said to Be
Popular in Fraternal Circles,
Interest In county fair, which will
be held at Klma from September 6th
to the 10th, inclusive, is more gen
eral than can be said of any pre
vious fair, and with good weather im
pending, attendance this year is go
ing to break all past records. The
exhibits this season cover a wider
scope than formerly, and competitive
contests have stirred up a great deal
of enthusiam, reaching Into every
corner of the county. Aberdeen, Ho
quiam, and Montesano will have
special days set aside, and special
trains will be put on. The jitney
drivers are looking forward to a har
vest, and are oiling up their buck
boards, arranging for new tires, etc.,
and the roads will undoubtedly be
alive with nickel collectors.
Exhibits are now arriving at the
fair grounds, and are being installed.
Blooded horses from all parts of the
Northwest are daily pounding the
turf, and all is bustle and excitement
within the area encompassed by the
fair ground fence. And it is well to
add here, while speaking of the fence,
that all knot holes have been plugged
and all cracks battened. Admission
to the wonders of the fair is to be low.
very low, and it is possible that the
gatekeepers will be a bunch of
p-r-e-t-t-y girls.
No resident of Grays Harbor can
afford to miss this fair. Surely ev
eryone can find time to go. It will
be worth while. See what your neigh
bors have been doing this summer in
the \yay of raising exhibition garden
sass, hens, ducks, pigs, cows, and
other birds.
And JOY STREET—say, here is
something that will tickle the funny
bone of the worst pessimist on the
Harbor. Joy Street will be culmina
tion of everything that is amusing,
entertaining, instructive. Inspiring—
in fact many cases of hyperdynamia
(Continued oo Page Eight)
ABERDEEN, WASHINGTON. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1916.
POINDEXTER ON
GRAYS HARBOR
United States Senator and
Candidate for Re-Election
Talks to Voters
IN ABERDEEN LAST NIGHT
The Senator Addresses Large
Audience Last Evening. He
States His Position Clearly
United States Senator Miles Poln
dexter arrived on Grays Harbor Wed
nesday and opened his campaign in
this county for re-election, at Ho
quiam, where he was entertained by a
number of prominent citizens at din
ner at Hotel Grayport, and in the
evening addressed a large audience in
the Liberty theater.
Coming to Aberdeen yesterday, the
senator was warmly greeted by his
numerous personal and political
friends and in the evening spoke at
the Bijou theater, at a non-partisan
meeting of Scandinavians.
In the course of his addresses. Sen
ator Poindexter gave notice that if
re-elected he would follow the same
policy in this regard in the future as
he has in the past, and secured the
hearty applause of his audience for
his declaration. He repeated his de
fense of his vote on various questions
which he had given earlier in the day
before the Young Men's Republican
club, and spoke In favor of discrimi
nating tariffs to encourage American
shipping.
"I am at least of a mature age,"
said Senator Poindexter, in defending
his refusal to follow machine rule
blindly. "I have had at least the ex
perience of life of the average individ
ual. and I believe that 1 am able to
determine for myself what are the re
publican principles and when acts are
in harmony and when in violation of
party pledges: and as for those Ta
coma gentlemen to whom I have re
ferred. I want to say now that I am
not going to abide by the dictum of
any local clique when it comes to de
termining a matter of that kind.
"The sordid question of whether I
followed the ideas of any Tacoma poli
tical .organization in my vote is not as
interesting to me as the question of
giving; a scientific application of the
principles of a protective tariff.
(ContlmiAd on Paga Eight)
QUITS JOB TO
SUPPORT WILSON
Mrs. Axtell, State Chairman
of the Congressional Union,
Declines to Support Hughes
IS CONGRESSIONAL CANDIDATE
Takes No Stock in Hughes'
Talk of Suffrage Amendment
to the Constitution
SEATTLE, Aug. 31. —Mrs. Frances
C. Axtell of Bellingham, former mem
ber of the state legislature, has re
signed as chairman of the Congres
sional union for the state of Wash
ington, now known as the Woman's
party. This action was taken by Mrs.
Axtell as a protest against the Wo
men's party Indorsement of Charles E.
Hughes.
Mrs. Axtell, who is a progressive
and the candidate of the party for
congress in her district, declares her
self for President Wilson.
"Neither party has stated specifical
ly a declaration in favor of the Susan
B. Anthony amendment," said Mrs. Ax
tell today. "We of the West, knowing
that such amendment must depend
upon a two-thirds vote of a new con
gress, regardless of Mr. Hughes' be
lated declaration for it, advised tak
ing no action regarding presidential
candidates and devoting ourselves to
the coming congress.
"Since to comply with their request
would mean an effort to return all
of the reactionaries to power and the
Western states would run the risk of
losing the ground for which progres
sives have fought for the last 20 years,
and as suffrage would gain nothing
by so doing, because reactionaries in
both parties are always opposed to
woman suffrage, and since all that
would be necessary for republicans to
do would be to say they stood by the
party platform and not by Mr. Hughes'
statement; and since prohibition and
woman suffrage have been settled in
this state on a perfectly non-partisan
basis and in each of the 12 suffrage
states there has been an adherence to
this standard. I find that I must re
sign this office."
C. I. Hall, formerly manager of the
Western Union in this city, but now
district manager with headquarters in
Seattle, was in town Wednesday.
EDITOR ROBERTSON PLEADS
FOR A NEW CONSTITUTION
Editor of North Yakima Republic Makes A Strong
Argument Before the State Bar
Association
FOR CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION
Institutions of Government Formed 27 Years
Are Pitiful Failure. Waste of Money
Shameful
NORTH YAKIMA, Aug. 28.—The
editor of the Yakima Republic tried
to present, an argument before the
State liar association for the call
ing of a constitutional convention in
this state with results which a
stenographer present 011 the scene
says were approximately as follows:
I am not a lawyer and do not speak
the legal language. 1 do not wish to
consider this subject from the stand
point of a lawyer, nor to raise any
question of a purely legal nature con
nected with the revision of the state
charter. I am by occupation a pub
lisher and printer, and as such a man
ufacturer. As a manufacturer I find
that I must study the subjects of or
ganization and efficiency in my shop
and throughout my business, and I
must operate on sound principles of
economy. I can't neglect these mat
ters and make a profit. Neither can
any other manufacturer.
As a student of my own business and
as a citizen interested in all public
affairs I have observed that the pub
lic business is not conducted as I
consider it essential to conduct my
business and as my neighbors find
that they conduct theirs If
they expect to be successful.
It is, therefore, as a business man
and taxpayer and citizen that I wish
to discuss this subject of constitution
al revision, and I am going to as
sume that the lawyers who constitute
this audience also have an Interest
in it as business men and taxpayers
and citizens.
The only objections to our consti
tution which I shall make here will
be objections to those provisions in
which are laid down the methods and
system by which the business affairs
of our state and counties are con
ducted. As a citizen they don't suit
me. As a manufacturer I consider
them inefficient and the cause of
unnecessary waste. As a taxpayer
I consider myself the victim of gross
carelessness on the part of a public
which permits them to exist.
It is no small matter. The state of
Washington Is a community of 1,250,-
000 people. The various government
al activities going on within its bor
ders constitute a community effort.
They are costing this year something
over $37,000,000, and that means that
there will be subtracted from the in
come of every average family in the
state an average amount of about
$150 to foot the public bills. That
Isn't the only consideration. Those
bills are getting bigger by 10 to 15
per cent each year. They are grow
ing faster than the population—near
ly four times as fast. There seems
to be no prospect that they will get
smaller in the future, but there is
every reason to think they are going
to continue to grow. And that is
not all. Under this system the pub
lic Indebtedness in this state has
grown In a quarter of a century un
til it Is for each individual larger
than that of any other state In the
Union but New York. I think i(t
is time that every citizen began to
consider what these facts mean, and
why they exist, and whether they
should continue to exist.
It is time for our people to ask
themselves whether they can afford to
carry such a burden of taxation and
debt, not only on account of the ef
forts they must make themselves/
but on account of the effect its ex
istence will surely have upon their
Industries and the development of
their resources.
I will take as my text these words
from the speech Mr Hughes made the
other day in accepting the Republican
nomination for the presidency: "It
is a mistake to suppose because we
are a democracy we should get along
with inexpertness and inefficiency.
For that very reason we should have
all the benefits of special skill and
knowledge." And I will add to it
these words from a recent address of
Hon. Elihu Root: "The test of the
fitness of a people for self-govrnment
is their ability to create their insti
tutions."
As a business man I am going to
say that the institution of govern
ment the people of Washington creat
ed for themselves 27 years ago are
a pitiful failure. I will say also that
the waste of money which they per
mit and cause is a shameful waste.
Institutions which permit such waste
can only be characterized properly
SAMPLE
COPY
as disgraceful to the people who per
mit them to exist.
A constitutional convention should
be called to see if we can't find a
rational way to handle the public busi
ness of our state and counties. I think
we can, and that all we need to do
is to profit by the experience of other
self-governing communities which
have been successful where we have
failed.
The trouble with the systems in
this state is a fundamental trouble in
all our states and in the federal sys
tem itself.
In safeguarding our rights and
liberties we have made assurance so
sure that none of our agents of gov
ernment has the authority to go and
do the business for which we choose
him.
What this state and every state In
the Union is suffering from is the lack
of responsive and responsible gov
ernment.
The first undertaking of a consti
tutional convention in Washington de
sirous of honestly serving its people
would be to reorganize the executive
department, and center the powers ot
the executive in a governor, who
should be held responsible first by the
representatives of the people and
then by the people themselves. To
day we have a dozen or more excel
lent gentlemen going up and down
the state telling the people that If
they are made governor they will give
the state an economical and businen
like administration. They are mis
taken. They won't do it. No govern
nor can do it. The governor of this
state is, so far as* his actual author
ity goes, hardly more than a figure
head. He may veto acts of the legis
lature, and that is his most important
power—one that, be it noted, is of a
negative character. Besides that, he
is commander-in-chief of the rmy, he
may remit fines and forfeitures, and
it is his solemn duty to sign the
commissions of notaries public. He
may appoint certain state officers,
but he can do that only with the con
sent of one part of the legislative
branch. He is the "supreme exec
utive of the state," but his executive
authority is divided with a secretary
of state, an auditor, an attorney-gen
eral, a land commissioner, a treas
urer and a superintendent of public
instruction —all elective officers, all
independent of him, and all clothed
with more or less authority to make
public policies and spend publio
money. .... _ . .
The executive department of the
state should consist of the governor,
the lieutenant governor, and possibly
an Independent elective auditor. All
administrative officers should be ap
pointed by the governor, and he should
be responsible for them. He should
be the state's business manager, re
sponsible to the legislature, but with
all necessary authority to make plans
for carrying on its business, subject
to approval.
In this connection, and as a part
of the reorganization of the execu
tive branch, a constitutional conven
tion intent on providing for respon
sible management of state affairs
would establish a scientific budget
system as a part of the framework
of state, county and city government.
In this connection I will remark that
the so-called budget scheme enacted
by the last legislature and now re
ferred to the people to be voted on
this fall is a fake and spurious af
fair. This proposed law does not pro
vide for a budget, nor for anything
but the publication of an estimate
beyond which public officers cannot
go in making expenditures for the
ensuing period. It cannot bind the
legislature, of course, and I know of
no good reason why the people should
vote for it. A budget is not an esti
mate. It is a financial plan, relating
to both expenditures and revenues,
setting forth what has been done
in the period that is past as well a 9
what it is proposed to do, prepared
by a responsible executive and sub
mitted to the representatives of the
people for approval or rejection. Un
der a proper budget plan all appropria
tions for all the usual purposes would
have to be initiated or proposed by
the executive and they could not be
increased by the legislature. With
such a budget system as that in op
eration the puDlic business of thia
(Conttnnad from p**e 2).
NUMBER 43
