HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
Mexican lank notes, state bills, lmg
17c. pesos, 5ies:c Mexican gold. 4J
4t4c naclonales bills, lS018tC Bar
Sver H. & H. quotation, 6.jc: copper
bar. 42C "5 grains, lower, livestock,
h the' stixks irregular
WEATHER FORECAST
El Paso and Knt Texas. Dart elondr.
1
New Mexico, fair west, showers cast:
warmer. Arizona fair.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
EL PASO. TEXAS, FRIDAY EVENING. SEPTEMBER I. 1916.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
DELIVERED ASTWHERE 60c A MONTH
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS-
On Mexico Roosevelt
Wilson
i
EEEffA'
a yf n ,-v H aI -r-H; i 1 r Mk r K 0 I m
lft ilJIrf H LH hZMtlDCDi I
Wars
; THAN HI
While Claiming To Be at
Peace, Wilson Has Made
War and Lost Lives.
'AMERICANS NOT
GIVEN SECURITY
h
Regardless of Cost of Wilson
Policy, Americans Are
Killed By Mexicans.
-r EWISTOJf. Maine. Sept L Theo
) dore Roosevelt expresident of the
- United States, flayed president
"Wilson and his world policies, particu
larly his "Mexican policy." In an ad
,d ess here last night In -which he urged
Jthe nattlon to vote for Chas. E. Hughes,
Republican, nominee for the presidency
The Mexican "policy of the president
received scathing rebuke at the hands
of the former president.
'Since 1912 we have had four rears
oi a policy which has been an opiate
to the spirit of idealism," said Mr
Roosevelt "It has meant the relaxa
tion of our moral fiber Horror of war,
"ombined with a sordid appeal to self
i interest and to fear, has paralyzed the
L, i.ational conscience We have be--ii
told that Americans. If they do no.
w -sh to be killed should leave Mexico
and should keep off the ocean, that to
lave a few American liTes It is not
v ortb while to hazard the lives of
American soldiers; that Mexicans
should be- allowed to spill blood to
eir hearts' content, that 'the Euro
pean war is no concern or ours; that
even as between Belgium and Germany,
we should be neutral not only In act
v uut u sympathy.
V Xot "Square With the People.
1 " .V.t i j . ir-i,
ui vuue nas vircsiuenv iisiin
squarely placed before the American
people the question -which Abraham
Lincoln put before the American people
lo 1S60 what is our duty Not once
has he appealed to moral idealism, to
the stem enthusiasm of strong men for
the right. On the contrary, he has em
ployed every elocutionary device to
.lull to sleep our sense of duty, to make
u.i content with words instead of
u7 eds to make our moral idealism and t
enthusiasm evaporate in empty phrase j
instead oi oeing reaucea to concrete
action America as a nation has been
oficually kept in a position of tim'd
r-4jncLfference and cold selfishness
America, which sprang to the 6uccor
cf Cuba In 1S9S has stood an idle
spectator of the invasion of Belgium,
of the sinking of the Lusitania, of the
countinued slaughter of our own citi
zens, and of the reign of anarchy, ra
p.ne and murder In Mexico
Ready For Americanism.
"Nevertheless I believe that the
American people were ready for thi
same lend of aopeal which was made
Via them by Abraham Lincoln in I860,
by the advocates of an honest cu--rency
In .!96, by the advocates of tho
Spanish war in 1S98, by the advocate
of Nationalism In 1900 But the appeal
was not made. On the contrary, Mr.
V lson invoked the spirit of timidi'y
and selfishness He made no effort to
nvoke the sense of duty He put
safety first, the immediate safetv of
e roorrent to be obtained by shrink
ing from duty. He did not even put
merlcan rights first, still less did hi
tout American duty first
-Jf- -In 1S60 the question whether the
Atbc-ic n people -would allow the ln
Ceflnue extension of slavery on the
American continent become acute.
or.sen.at sm said, Let well enongh
a oe t midity said. Let us have pea;
business interests said. Safet first,
the spirit of pacifism said, Let us
comprom se for the eils of slavery
a e not to be compared with the ev 'Is
c nI war and posible dissolution of
tiie Lnion
T Facinc a Reality.
"To these arguments, so plausible
tat apparently they carried the great
rraJoHtj of the nation and had the
fcupport of multitudes of the best men
both in church and state, Abraham
ncoln answered in nis cooper unioa
rweeh. Tither slavery is right or
wrong if it is right, we ought to lo
al' that the soutn asits oi us, it it is
wrong we have no right to allow it in
territory under our control.' To this
principle he adhered through the poli
tical campaign which elected him,
through the dark and dangerous days
of the interregnum after his election,
and through all the tragedy of the
c vil war The American people e
eponded to the appeal and sustained
in practical fasion the great moral
principles Lincoln set forth and em
Jbodied. T iev put duty first and no:
I safety first, and I believe that only
by eo doing will they secure real and
ultimate safety I believe that th-y
wil support a policv of national action
(Continued on pace 9. Col. L)
Midsummer Edition of Herald
Best In History of Southwest
From the Tombstone (Ariz.) Prospector.
THE EL PASO HERALD blossomed out in its W eek-End Edition with a
72 page Midsummer Progress and Building edition that far burpases
anj-tlun-j ever issued in 'lie southwest, and containing, as it does,
worlds of reading, descriptive matter, together with illustrations, will do
wonders in helping boost the Great Southwest.
You Can't
Maes Shirts and
Commands Regiment
Haderer's Portrait Studio. 111V, S. E Paso.
CoL Edward C Shannon, commanding
the fourth infantrj, Pennsylvania na
tional guard, is another graduate from
the service school of the ranks He
enlisted as a private in company C,
lourtn mzantry, in ibss, was made a
corporal in the same company in 1890.
a sergeant in 1S91. a second lieutenant
in 1S93, a first lieutenant in 1S9S and
a captain in 1S9S
As captain of company C he served
through the Spanish-American war and
was made a major of the fourth in
fantry in 1904 and received his appoint
ment as colonel in 1915
CoL Shannon is a shirt manufacturer
In Columbia, Fa and Is 46 years old. I
London. Eng Sept 1 Five suc
cessive attacks were made bj German
troops last night on British positions
on the Somme front. The war otfice
announced today that the Germans
penetrated British defences on a small
frontage at two points between Ginchy
and High wood.
Germans Regain Ground.
Berlin. Germany, Sept. 1. German
troops on the Somme front in Franco
Thursday as the result of a counter
attack, says the official statement s
sued today bj the German army head
quarters staff, regained the ground
they previously had lost near Longue
lal and Delville wood
BOSS OTOE
IWOEU
Petrograd. Russia, Sept 1. In the
course of the battles Thursday on the
western Russian front says the Rus
sian official statement of today, the
Russians captured 2S9 officers and
15,501 men Of this number. M00 were
Germans. The Russians also captured
six guns. S5 machine guns and seven
bomb throwers.
AUSTRIANS FALLING BACK
ON SECOND FORTIFIED LINES !
Geneva. Switzerland, Sept 1 The
Austro-Hungarians, unable to hold out
against the rush of the Rumanian army
in the Transylvania region, are falling
back on their second fortified lines, ac
cording to a correspondent at Austro
Hungarian headquarters. The corres
pondent says fighting has become gen
eral along a 400 mile front I
It is reported that a council of war
will assemble shortly at Vienna. Em
peror William of Germanv, emperor
Francis Joseph of Austria-Hungary.
and Ferdinand, of Bulgaria, will be i
present I
Bulgars. it is reported, fear the Rus-
sians will make a combined land and
sea attack on Varna, a Bulgarian Black
Sea port
GERMANS GI
II 5 ATMS
Run Away From
The War At a Glance
THE official representative at
Salonlki at the British press
cables to London that king
Oonstantine of Greece has abdicated
in favor of crown prince George
and that former premier Venizelos.
leader of the party which favors
intervention bv Greece on the side
of the entente allies, will be the
power behind the throne. The cor
respondent regards It as uncertain
whether the entente allies wish the
assistance of Greece.
Greek Garrisons Surrender
The surrender of three Greek
garrisons in Macedonia to a com
mittee, the nature of which is not
indicated clearly. Is reported from
Salonlki Other dispatches say
there has been fighting between
Greek regulars and volunteer
forces.
Rumanian troops are continuing,
apparently without serious Inter
ruption, their invasion of Hungary,
and have occupied several villages,
according to official announcement
at Bucharest.
Unlfraria Declarers War
On the Macedonian front compara
tive quiet continues Bulgaria's
expected declaration of war on Ru
mania is announced at Saloniki,
according to an unofficial dis
patch from that point.
Fairly Qniet Ionc the Nanune
On the French front, fighting has
died down, although the artillery
was very active Thursday night
in the Somme sector. The British
official statement says the Ger
mans have penetrated British posi
tions on a small frontage near
High wood.
p
OP IN REVOLT
RebelS Attack Saloniki Gar-
nson; Disarmed; Take
xwo timer uarnsons.
London. Eng, Sept I. The begin
ning of a revolution in Macedonia Is
reported
Renter dispatch filed
Thursday at Salonlki. Further details
of the disturbance In Saloniki are giv
en in a later dispatch to Renter's Tel
egram company, -which savs that -when
the volunteers ascertained the regu
lars were unwilling to cooperate with
them they surrounded the barracks in
the night cut the water main and elec
tric wires and shut off food supplies.
A detachment of 60 regulars attempt
ed to break its wa out to obtain sup
plies. Its surrender was demanded,
and when the regulars refused, the
volunteers fired shots in the air. The
regulars replied with a volley, where
upon the volunteers opened fire
them, compelling them to return to ,
the barracks. ,
The allied commander. Gen. Sarrail,
intervened to prevent further blood
shed. Altogether, according to the lat
est reports, three men were killed and
ore gendarme and two volunteers were
wounded.
Revolutionist Disarmed.
Hi
The soldiers refused to treat with he saw his country drifting into war
the revolutionists, but accepted allied -with Turkey, he sounded a warning
mediation. It was agreed that the sol- I that the Greek army was utterly unpre
diers should be disarmed and interned pared for a campaign The infantrj was
at Camp Zeeitlnlek, south of the city, armed with condemned French rifles,
TMia nfttnave aia n.,mltfafl .. vA.ntn 1 Ytf,, li4fl ,nt t ?)tl 41lA CA rt Tift ITP!3
thir sunrrts nlpdsrini- ihtnii nnt
to interfere with the revnlntinniot. !
The barracks were turned over to the
French It is understood a number of
the officers and a considerable propor
tion of the men sympathize with the
revolutionary movement and will now
join it
Vodena Garrison Revolts.
It is also reported that the entire
garrison at Vodena went over to a
committee representing the revolution
ists. The garrison at Fort Little
Karaburun refused to recognize the
committee, whereupon revolutionists
surrounded the fort After news had
been received of the submission of the
Saloniki garrison the regulars at little
Karaburun yielded
AH opposition to the revolutionarv
committeee in the affected portion of i
Macedonia appears to hare vanished.
The committee will now take over the
runctions oi me government and is ex
pected to proclaim a general mobiliza
tion.
PRINCE LEOPOLD COMMANDS
GERMANS ON EASTERN FRONT
Berlin, Germanv. Sept 1 In todav a
Cnn.ll nffl.l.l rt.t.M.nf n Im n T
pold of Bavaria, appears as the direc- !
tor or the German armies on the Rus- !
sian front which had been controls
liv field marshal inn HlnHpnhnrr. h. '
fore he was appointed chief of thJ '
German imperial start purchase a gift sword. Inscribed- "To
j Constantine. the Liberator."
BULGARIA HAS DECLARED i When Constantine came to the throne
min riuc-r DMiiiuii . it was said he aimed to restore the for
WAK AUAlnM KUAlArilA I mer grandeur or the ancient Hellenic
London. Eng, Sept 1 Bulgaria his
declared war on Rumania, according lo
an official announcement made at Sa
loniki, as forwarded by Reuter's coi -respondent
there
TURKEY HAS NOW DECLARED
VAR AGAINST RUMANIA
Berlin. Germany, Sept 1 (By wire
less to Sayvllle. L 1 1 A dispatch rrom
Constantinople says that at S oclock
last night the Turkish government de
livered the Rumanian minister at Con
stantinople a declaration or war against
Rumania.
RUSSIANS -ILl. EXPEUIECE,
nCPIUMLS I.N GEUMANV
Berlin. Germany. Sept L orricei-
and sailors or the Russian navy,
prisoners in Germany." says Overseas
(Continued on Page 5. Column
-
IB PRESSURE
CAUSES HIS
Constantine Relinquishes the
Hellenic Crown in Favor
of the Crown Prince.
QUEEN TOLEAVE
GREECE, REPORT
War Party in Control, and
Greece is Expected To
Join the Entente.
ONDON. Ens.. Sept 1. King Con-
I stantlne, of Greece, whose iyra
- pathels are Teutonic has abdicated,
according to the British official press
representative at Saloniki.
The press representative sajs the
king has abdicated in favor of the
crown prince, -with former premier
Veniielos the power behind the throne.
The new policy, he reports, will be to
work with the Entente allies. Accord
ing to thi information premier Zaimis
will remain at the head of the govern
ment The corerspondent questions whether
the Entente allies desire the active
assistance of Greece
Former premier Venizelos heads th
war party which thinks the future -f
I Greece rests with the success or the
Entente an.es and that territorial ex-
i SSR-Jt 'SSX L bSt ?
matter to a crisis.
Queen to Leave Greece,
Most of the officers of the general
staff were educated in Germany, and
the nueen herself is a Hohenzollern.
.-"' "i -' fh'"nui h
declared that in the event Greece joins
the Entente, she will immediately leave
her kingdom.
Cnstantlne Helen Ilrief.
The reign of Constantine L as kins
of the Hellenes was brief, dating only
from March 18. 1913. when his father
Hanrma T -. aee-iiejnatarl In CatltnIV4 t
T
Brief as the reign was. Constantine I Si,.sn.a,or w,as reached, but all the
had enjoyed a period of remarkable : ?hi?5 ;??. many 1ls"r' were in
popularity and Increased the territor-r I J"1' satf", Att" . Jones was nomi
of the Greek monarchj by over 50 I "a'ef- he Ma "rted to the platform
percent i and introduced by governor McDonald.
Born on August I. 1S6S. tie was ! audience insisted that he make a
educated largely by private tutors . SPi.n- , .
from Lelpsic. which was said to have w,-tnln' -Uuf.e?Y. secretary of statt
stamped upon him a permanent Ge.- af "nom mated bj acclamation He
man influence His military education asL1a,T,?',niHda,te for corporation coin
was furthered by attendance at man- n3's!'ner. earHtr 1ut '" the fusion
euvers in Germanv. He became a I agreement with the "Progressiv es."
brotherinlaw of the German emperor
i... ..i..- , i.tt... ,t.t,p n,in. !
bv marrylng. the latter's sister, prin-
cess Sophia, in 1889 I
Became Popular Idol.
The most interesting chapter of Con-
stantine's life is the way in which he
become the people's idol Like his fath
er, he had his ups and downs in favor.
tha I-i-aVv havlnn- heon nllr-chjinin JT
in their likes and dislikes. In 1896 when I
were IS vears old. there was no cav-I
alrv . the artillerv was obsolete, and Its !
ficers few Nevertheless, the country
decided upon war The result was dis
astrous a humiliating defeat for
Greece Immediatelv- the popular tide
turned against its rulers, -vhom it de
nounced as foreigners who could have
little in common with the Greeks The
king and queen were hooted in the
streets, and the officers turned their
backs uDon the crown prince.
A similar spirit was roused against "
me royal uuuae tvueu. in l?vj. tim;;
George tried to oppose the popular
clamor for the annexation of Crete,
knowing that Turkey was eagerly
awaiting such an excuse to bring a
second crushing defeat upon Greece.
This time the clamor almost became a
revolt and the king was obliged to I
yield to the demand of the militar .
eacue. both for a reorganization of the I
army and for the dismissal of the crown
prince as generalissimo He thereupon
decided to accept a command In the
decided to accept a commana in tne j
Russian army, but the opposition to
him was smoothed out and he was re
stored to his former dignities.
Ilia Capture or a!onlM.
He finallv became a national hero
In the Balkan war of 1912. when he
led an arm) or 10,000 Greeks to the
capture of Saloniki.
causing 30.000
Turks to lav down their arms. His
popularity was sucn, as a result or this
feat, that Greeks in Amprlci ratapil set.
cral thousand dollars with which to i
empire, and that he was a believer
the old national prophecy that under
the reign of a Constantine and a Sophia
the eastern empire would be called into
life again and' the cross restored on St
Sophia at Constantinople in place of the
crescent
By the peace treaties signed after the
Balkan wars. Greece added a consid
erable stretch of Turkish territory to
her domain and In December. 1913, the
long desired annexation of the islands
of Crete was carried out king Constan
tine himself hoisting the Hellenic flag
over the fort
PasseH IIII1 For Ericsson Memorial.
Washington. D. C Sept 1. President
Wilson Thursday signed the bill re
cently passed by congress, appropriat
ing $35.00n for the erection here of a
memorial to John Ericsson, the invent
or of the Monitor
Infantile Paralysis; It
II !ItlH:
A. A. JONES TO
Governor McDonald Is Named for Lieutenant Governor
on Democratic Ticket and Accepts; W. B. Walton,
of Grant, Is Nominated for Congress; Demo
crats Hold Long Night Session.
HI GCTHRIE SMITH.
SANTA FE. N. M. Sept 1. Two for
mer governors on the ticket for
subordinate offices make an un
usual circumstance. The Democratic
state convention at 2:30 this morning
finished the nomination of such a
ticket
Governor William C. McDonald and
Lieut Gov E. C de Baca exchange
places on the ticket and former gov
ernor Miguel A. Otero is nominated
for auditor.
William B Walton, of Grant was
nominated for congress by acclamation,
all the counties seconding the nomina
tion, and as was forecast as certain,
A. A. Jones, of San Miguel, was nomi
nated for the United States senate.
When the convention was called to
order at 8 oclock for the run down the
home stretch, no time was lost and In
a single session every nomination was
made.
Matron, who made the motion in the
afternoon for a star chamber session
behind closed doors, did not attend the
night session.
Patton. of Chaves, moved that the
nominating speeches be limited to 15
minutes and seconding speeches to five
minutes An amendment was carried
limiting the speeches to five and two
minutes, respectivelj. and Adjt Gen.
Herring was appointed to keep time
on the orators.
Lnder a suspension of the rules, the
! sr ? the Eovemor
I nominated first De Baca was nomi
nated on the first ballot, the-vote being-as
follows De Baca 186; Bartb, of
Bernalillo. 33; Sellers, of Bernalillo, ;
Hudspeth, of Lincoln. S Under mo
tion by Barth. the nomination was
made unanimous by a rising and
cheering vote.
Miguel A Otero, of Santa Fe. was
nominated by acclamation for auditor,
as was Nelll B. Field, of Bernalillo, for
the supreme court
Wanted Jones to Talk.
It was 1 oclock when the nomination
"" '" - corporation commissioner
and auditor were nromlsed to tiiA
a5d auditor
Progressives
,,"n
for Treasurer.
H. LerOV Hall, of Itln Arriba rt-
feated T. K. Smalling, of McKlnle), for
treasurer by a vote of 130 to 113. The
nomination then was made unanimous.
csonuacio ilontoja. of Sanuoval
county, superintendent of schools and
a member of the state board nf i1n.i.
tion. was nominated for corporation
commissioner.
White la Defeated.
Harry L Patton. of Cum. was nomi
nated bj acclamation for attorney ges-
eraL J. L. G. Swinnev. superintendent
OI schools of ian Juan county, and
member of the state board of educa
tion, tor superintendent of public in
struction defeated A. N White, of
Grant present, superintendent, by a
vote of 13S to 95.
George Davesson, treasuier of
Chaves count), was named for commis
sioner of public lands b va vote of
159 to 70, defeating Fulgecio C. De
Bacz, of Lnion.
motions'to recess'
At I3.o0 anu again at 13.50 five
until 9 oclock th.s
morning were cried down without a
vote
-Nominations Quickly Made.
Not more than one ballot was te
quired to nominate any of the candi
dates, which unanlmit) was in strik
ing contrast to the uncertalntv and
indecision of the former sessions.
The reading of the report of
t!i.
committee on resolutions was Drinci-
Pally to emptv seats, all the visitoia
and a large majoritv or the delecate-i
"& iwai inieres
had been completed.
having lost interest arter the ticket
The Platfurm.
The principal points in the platform
are the declaration or submitting
amendments on prohlbltotn and woroa.1
sufrrage and improvement in electi u
and primarv laws, improvement In tax
cqualitv laws amending the constitu
tion so as to increase the powers of tUa
corporation commission, the election
of superintendents of schools all tha
time as school directors. In order to
try to take the ofrice out of politics.
e!!gman Is Chairman.
Arthur Selignian. of Santa Fe, was
this morning elected chairman of the
state central committee The secre
tary will be chosen later. An execu
tive comimttee to consist of four od
ditional members will be named bj the
chairman.
Secret "session Proposed.
To clear the floor and the gallery or
visitors and press representatives, and
then, oehind closed doors, to remain
until a candidate ror every office had
been nominated, was the motion put
jesterday arternoon before the con
vention by O N Marron, who is treas
urer of the state of New Mexico and
holds one-fourth of a vote as that part
or a delegate rrom Bernalillo countv.
It was the spectacular play of the
afternoon session which was turbulent
throughout A motion by Patton, of
Chaves, to table Marron's motion, was
carried by overwhelming majority.
Marron's call ror a roll call vote was
ignored.
Jlntl Moosem In Charge.
AVhen ailed to order at 3.15 to begin
- - ---- "
IN FOR SENATE
the afternoon session, chairman Lucero
turned the reins over to CoL Bronson
M. Cutting, chairman of the state cen
tral committee of the Progressive party.
This was for the purpose of hearing
a keynote speech to the Progressive
state convention, which was to be de
livered by Ralph C Ely, who. until a
week ago, was the chairman of the Re
publican state central committee and an
active candidate for the nomination for
governor. Col. Cutting said the con
vention was not limited or restricted
to Progressives, but was open to all
Independent thinking voters who are
interested In good government Dr. B.
E. Hedding. secretary, then read the
call for the Progressive convention.
Ely was accorded a big ovation, the
delegates and visitors rising and cheer
ing. Chairman Lucero served as in
terpreter for the speaker, who was
stopped quite a number of times by
applause.
Praiaea McDonald' Speech
So far a3 my knowledge goes," said
Ely. in opening, "there has never been
just such a proceeding as this. It
needs no analysis, but it means that
whatever your party may be. your
party must be absolutely right in order
to hold your adherence." He declared
that he didn't believe he could do bet
ter in addressing a convention of
Progressives than to read "the splen
did speech delivered yesteray by your
most excellent state executive "
Free Votlnsr.
Elj asserted that the first great re
form necessary in this state was abso
lute freedom of voters to participate in
primary elections.
"The general elections In New Mei
I ico. as now conducted. he declared.
"are as wicked as they Dosiibly could
be. In my own precinct In the Urn
cuT Deminf. on election day. I have 32
men sitting on the fence waiting to
be paid for their day's -work." -
He elicited applause by ending his
remarks on primaries and elections
with the following statement "Be
cause I didn't believe such conditions
should endure is the reason I didn't
raise my voice In the convention of ray
own party I knew there was no hope
there.
Score DQMnm.
The former Republican chairman
spoke for several minutes on taxation,
and scored both Bursum and the
Hawkins mine tax laws as inadequate
and unfair He closed with an appeal
frtT thA nnmlnfiflrtti .t trnA pl.an qiTd
j far-seeing men for state office.
roilowing the close of El-rs address.
which lasted 55 minutes, a motion by
former governor Miguel A. Otero car
ried unanimously to extend a vote of
thanks to the Democratic party for the
use of the hall of representatives and
the attendance of the delegates for the
keynote address of Ely.
While the candidates for presidential
electors were oeing placed in nomina
tion. Bickley. of Colfax, yielded the
floor to Barth. of Bernalillo, declaring
that he did so because Barth was big
ger. Why Spanish-Americans'
"res. and for the further reason that
I am better looking." retorted the 300
pounder Barth said that he took the
floor to make a protest against the use
of the word "nationalities" to dis
tinguish between the socalled Spanish
Americans and other residents of the
United States.
"When a new comer arrives from
Sweden. Germany or Ireland, he re
mains here five years and then becomes
an American, yet, the people whose
ancestors came from Spain 300 ears
ago, still have to be referred to and
described as or a different nationality
or race.'
Presidential Wectors.
After 11 men had tieen put In nomin
ation for presidential electors, JIarron
moved tha the convention cast its
unanimous vote for three of the
nominees which he named He asked
this under a susoenslnn or th nti.c
The Democratic steam-roller was still
.... . , . . .. .. -
ance. nineteen of whom are from
Sandoval, which is the baliwick of
Marcos C DeBaca, Progressive candi
date for congress in 1911
GenrrnI Deficiency UUI I'nsses.
Washington D C. Sept 1 Tie gen
eral defieienc appropriation bill, car
lo ing approximate! 114.000.000 wa
passed Thursdav by the house. It now
goes to the senate
i. jirons irau ana nis motion was ! gress Detore tomorrow.
tabled by a vote of 191 to 4.1. ' . ,.. , . . t
The presidential electors chosen are Bl" Inro,1c1 l" Senate.
Felix Garcia, or Rio Arriba. Jose G I At - oclock senator New-lands intro
Chavez. or Valencia and James N. duced the senate's revised bill, and it
Upton, or Luna. It was 6 30 when a ! was formal! referred to the Inter
motion carried unanimous' to recess state commerce committee. Senator
until S p m A motion to adjourn at J,ew lands said he would seek to hold
5i5? vh,,e ,he nomination of preslden- . tne senate in session until the whole
tlal electors was still under way. was subject was disposed or. even ir it
beaten by a vote or 309 to -'." The re- should extend the session rar into the
port on credientials shows 451 delegates j night
actual!) In attendance, to cast the 334 I Senator Newlands made a ravorable-
votes. report from the committee at ; 30
rvx. J! rogrcsslves Atleml. oclock and unanimous consent was
The Progressives convention has granted b the senate for immediate
about one hundred delegates In attend- consideration. Senator Newlands onened
Kansas Man Picks Car From
Auto Advertisements In Herald
BLSIXES men who have used the advertising columns of The Herald
know that their advertisements in The El Paso Herald bring replies
from all over the southwest. The automobile industry is so organized
into central districts or selling zones that the territorj of the El Paso dealers
is a bit less than the territory covered by The Herald.
Replies to automobile advertisements from as far away as Bloom, Kansas,
are unusual, to sav the lcat, yet the Pioneer Motor company, on Thursday,
received a letter from E. M. Uoodman, of Bloom. Kan., making inquiries
about the Argo motor advertised in The El Paso Herald of last Saturday. It
pays to use the advertising columns of The El Paso Herald.
Respects
DDfll flCQ
I If m I
nn T(i
,u,u, u
GOVERN
WAGES
Brotherhoods May Yield if
Congress is Determined
To Pass It.
HOUSE BILL IS
UNION FAVORITE
President Believes Legisla
tion To Avoid a Strike
Will Be Passed.
WASHINGTON. D .C. Sept 1.
While senate and house were
this arternoon considering
separate bills designed to avoid the
threatened national railroad strike
there were indications that the labor
leaders would fight a proposal in the
senate bill to empower the interstate
commerce commission to govern wages
hut would probably accept it If the
saw congress was determined to In
clude it in the bill.
Under a special rule providing for a
vote not later than 4.30 this afternoon.
the house took, tip .the Adamson eight
hour day bill, approved by president
Wilson and accepted by brotherhood
leaders as a "satisfactory settlement"
The senate interstate commerce com
mittee reported a similar bill which,
however, contains an Important pro
vision empowering the interstate com
merce commission to fix schedules of
wages on interstate railways. It pro
vides that the eight hour day shall be
come effective Jan. 1. 1917; that the
present pay for the 10 hour day shall
apply to the shorter day, that overtime
shall be paid prorata, but adds that
within not less than six and not more
than 12 months after its passage, the
interstate commerce commission shall
assume jurisdiction of the question of
hours and wages and that thrv shall x
subject to petition for change from the
employers, the employes or the nub
ile. Last Provision Jlay Canse Trouble.
The DOSSlbllitv- tnr a hftfh coomb, ..
be in this last provision which is be-
iitr siuuiea oy tne brotherhood leaders.
The committee eliminated the pro
posal that on the report or the eight
hour day commission the interstate
commerce commission "shall consider
an increase or rreight rates to meet
such additional expenditures by the
railroads affected as may have been
rendered necessary by the adoption or
the eight hour day"
omf Features Eliminated.
Neither or the two pending- hills con
tain the Canadian commission plan
which the labor leaders opposed, and
neither contains the government opera
tion provision President Wilson Is
willing to let those features wait until
after enough legislation to avert the
strike has been enacted. Republicans
decided today to rrame a bill or their
own and oer It as a substitute for the
administration plan A committee waa
appointed to draft it No serious oppo
sition to the administration plan was
expected, however.
President Wilson told members or his
cabinet at today's meeting that there
was every prospect that the legislation
W OUIfl DA riSSSPn hv hnth hfl,ln nf .n
- - : --. ..vwv. v. ,...-
the discussion.
.'OO0 Fine For Hindering: Trains.
Senator Newlands called special at
tention to a provision of the bill, added
after the original draft had been sub
mitted, which would declare any per
son who wiUully delays, obstructs or
hinders operation or trains, guilty or
a misdemeanor, to be punished by a fine
(Continued on race 5. eol. 3.)
No Section
