TWELFTH YEAR. No. 11
POLITICAL SPEAKING.
Thursday afternoon Judge Geo.
Turner, of Spokane, democratic can
for the United States senate,
ncompanled by Edgar C. Snyder, a
nnting progressive back in 1912, and
theHlk’e quartette, composed of Cbas.
Utan, .Wm. Clark, George Chant and
jj, A. Krantz, arrived in town. Judge
Turner was out on a speaking tour
through the county, the Snyder party
mlg| as the Judge’s man Friday,
while the glee club was along to lift
thepnll of disappointment and lack of
Kthfeet manifested at the meetings,
iurffrey bravely did their part.
CogeWerlng the torrid weather, the
that occupied seats in the
Orpheuo in the evening was much
lirger than could have been expected,
(illy bUI being ladies. The band was
•at Bllhg the atmosphere with har
■oay, and the quartette, a band of
carldhg good singers as well as cork
il •*« fellows, rendered a number of
Hludlan most delightfully. Indeed, us
Dm Jjjdge remarked, the (|uartctte was
tlrJpawlng card of the aggregation.
■Dft.G. Rice acted as master of
gruMßle*. introducing the speakers
vein. Mr. Snyder was the
M apaaker of the evening and told
IlMaftiepeated history of the organi
utM of the progressive party, and
D*rth» reason why he is now
Utan he always belonged, in the
giMoratlc party. He queered himself
la a phroration, in which his words
dm mingled with gesticulations and
lian, when he likened his erstwhile
m to Benedict Arnold and Judas I
lucartet, overlooking the fact that he
MMi'betore an intelligent audience
uaftptag hie apostacy, which branded
a despicable party traitor
ig the once beloved wlelder of the big
.Turner has lost the fire and
IgglLfEllis earlier manhood, but he is
MWifclwsthe finished, polished and
littoßy spwker that has won him
NMgalnoiL' for ability throughout
IhdlMd, tor Judge Turner is a national
(gwil ai a local celebrity. He was
■HHdHTII I * treatment, of his po
stal opponents, and made out as
towg a defense of President Wilson
M the subject would permit, it was a
•Might political speech on national
irnei, and no reference was made to
Us own candidacy, or to that of other
Mmocratlc state or congressional can
didate*. It was a calm, dispassionate,
tfnnentatlve review of the work of
the administration and appeal to voters
inch as could be expected from such a
brilliant judicial mind. We would like
U hear Judge Turner take the side of
the prosecution in the trial of Presi
dent Wilson at the bar of public opin
ion were he possessed of the ginger he
displayed on the stump in the early
•Ms, when the name of democracy was
to him like unto a red rag flourished
before the eyes of a raging bull. One
of the clasaic speeches of those early
d*yi, lor Instance the celebrated Bl
ienihnrg episode, would have electri-
Md that'audience and had the women
hnndlng on the chairs shouting and
the men standing on their heads. The
Judge was original and scathing at
oral vivisecting in those days, and
wheabe cut loose democrats dived for
the trenches.
*
1 STRONG CANDIDATE.
Everybody knows Dewey Hubbard,
•no has been in the country any time
•M he Is a man with a clean rec-
W4 that everybody likes. Mr. Hubbard
candidate on the republican ticket
w county auditor and was in town
wsday meeting up with his old
"ends, and Incidentally meeting oth
•r*. If Mr. Hubbard is chosen auditor
* *J°* g n °t enter the office ignorant
w the duties of that important position.
« held the office from 1909 to 1912,
*®d the way he conducted the affairs of
1 ®°^* ce entitles him to consideration
the voters when that office Is to
r* *Wln filled. He has no promises to
other than that the office will
uiit *° n plane it reached
der his former administration, and
“Wtoall the tax payers could wish. A
jcalal gentleman personally, as well as
capable one in any position he might
called upon to fill, Mr. Hubbard Is
* v *fy popular citizen of Okanogan
county,
TOHITY episcopal chcrch.
«»Fil7* CeS wlll 1)6 heltl nf - xt Sunday
„ at ** a - m - Services are held
o( th BrSt and Sunday mornings
Sand* lnont * l - Sunday school every
I® a, m. All are cordially in-
R EV, Q. h, SEVERANCE, Vicar
*-*
PRESBYTERIAN CHCRCH.
ÜBllwißchoolU B llwi Bchool at Pre »ching at
Oja * u^ec t °f sermon, "Palm
f or,le and bring
A. W. BOND, Pastor
A GRAND EVENT.
Next Friday, September 8, promises
to be a gala day for Oroville, as the
society ladies have made elaborate ar
rangements for springing a surprise on
the public. The active workers in the
movement designate the forthcoming
attraction as a "Society Circus,” which
bids fair to be the most unique enter
tainment ever given in Oroville. The
mystery has not been unveiled to ye
editor, and he can only quote the post
ers and draw conclusions from the an
nouncement. The library building and
park have been secured for the show,
and will combine indoor and outdoor
features. The show is elaborate In
promise and will be of a character to
interest and entertain all who attend,
and that should include everybody
residing in town and the surrounding
country.
The opening stunt will be a “grand
parade” at 1: RO p. m„ and the public
must patiently await that exhibition
to ascertain its nature, as no hint is
advanced as to what the parade is to
consist of. The reader can rest assur
ed that it will be something worth
seeing. Then there are to be Hawaiian
and Circassian girls, pretty, of course,
and such side show attractions as an
ancient elephant, bodyless woman, (a
longueless would be more of a curi
osity.) the shortest man, an amusing
clown and operatic notables, besides
one thing and another too numerous
to mention.
This show is going to attract in its
diversity of ways to amuse. Besides
the exhibits to entertain there will be
booths installed by different societies
where you pay your money and take
your choice. Lovers of the dance, and
that embraces a large percentage of
the population without regard to age,
will have ample opportunity to indulge
their weakness. The band is to be the
beneficiary of the dance.
The promise held out is a day of en
joyment and pleasure. Being someth
ing altogether new in the way of
amusement the "Society Circus”
should arouse curiosity and draw lib
erally. Everybody of-courae. is Invited,
and that means everybody within reach
of Oroville. Those at a distanc will
find it well worth their time to be in
Oroville on Friday. September 8, All
those near at hand and at home could
not be kept away with a club.
ASSESSOR'S REPORT
Dear Sir—
The enclosed data was taken from tlie
annual report as this office Is required to
supply to the state. The Information no
doubt will be of interest to many of your
readers. It will be of special Interest to
know that this year we listed but 729 less
work horses than during 1915, or only
213 less horses of all classes than during
the previous year; also 432 milch cows
were listed this year more than last, arm
3,379 more head of cattle, all classes, than
during 1915. The former no doubt accounts
for heavy losses during the past winter
as well as the large number of horses that
lias been shipped out of the county for
war purposes. The latter fact would in
dicate that milch cows and cattle in gen
eral are appreciably on the Increase.
Yours truly.
C. H. KNOSHER. Assessor.
Facts and Figures from the County Asses
sor's Annual Report. 1916.
Average
assessed
value.
One year old horses, 1848 $ 8.34
Two year old horses 1877 115.18
Three year old and over, 3673 23.12
Work horses. 6044 42.66
Mules, all classes, 401 JJ.-O
Yearling rattle, 8887
Two year old cattle 6320 il* ,!!
Three year old and over 7274 21.90
Milch cows 4892 28 60
Sheep and goats 5952
Hogs, 6225 , 2-D
Automobiles. 297 *55 oc
Pianos, 523
Sewing machines. 1488 oVaonnn
Farm machinery • • •
Acres land on tax rolls, all classes 574. -4
Acres of improved land, all classes 121.031
Acres unimproved land, all classes 4.».t.1u.-s
Aggregate value of town lots and Im
provements .. ,$670,.i72.f10
Total assessed valuation of real
estate
Total assesed valuation of per
sonal property •• • v
(These figures do not Include the rail
road values; when same are received from
the state tax commission, the aggregate
total on the 1016 tax rolls will exceed the
sum of $8,000,000.06.)
E. D. Van Dissel has sold his place
north of town, that he purchased from
Oscar Smith last fall, to August Carl
son, a recent arrival from Saskatch
ean. Part of this tract Is under the
ditch and is prettily located above
Osoyoos lake. The consideration is said
to be 12.800, a considerable advance
over the price paid by Mr. Van Dissel.
Prof. Nance urges that every child
intending to enter school for the
1916-17 term report promptly on Mon
day, September 11. It is so much bet
ter for scholars and teacher if pupils
enter the class at the beginning of the
term. Where children hold off and
enter school later it is difficult ,01
them to catch up in the studies, and It
is not Justice to the teachers. We have
been requested to state in this connec
tion that there will be a truant off
cer on the Job this term and children
not in school, or breaking the truant
rules, will be snatched up at once
There will be no postponing the
snatching, either, for the schools will
be in touch with the officer by tele
phone and he will be informed at once
of any delinquency.
A SELF MADE MAN.
cm .' . an l ! Mrß ’ Alonzo M. Murphey
noon V r ? m s P° kane Monday after
> eavlng Tuesday morning for
one 0 f th r ~o‘ n tß' Mr ' Murphey 18
one of tile several candidates for
tXf'wT f T thls dlßtr “*- his
t 'p was a last run through this part
o the district before the primaries.
Mi. Murphey met with a very favor
able reception here upon the occas
ion of both of his visits, and secured
a promise of support from a number
citizens. Mr. Murphy is not a poll
man. just a level headed, conserva
tive and successful business man
More business men of his calibre
should be in congress, and better busi
ness principles would be applied In
governmental affairs. He does not pre
tend to have all the backing of Spo
kane. that has been his home for a
quarter of a century, but he does have
the support of a large representation
not only of the business men, but
men in all walks of life, of every trade
und profession. While mentioning Mr
Murphey s visit it is not out of place
to call attention to a brief sketch of
his life that appears in another col
umn. This narrative should be an In
spiration and incentive to every lad
in the land. Mr. Murphy made good in
the face of the most trying difficulties,
by his own initiative and by his own
exertions. The same chance is open to
any young man with energy and deter
mination. When we read that story
it struck us that a man that could
build himself up with so little to start
on, winning the goals of his ambition
tlirough self sacrifice and by his own
resources, was the kind of a man that
deserves to be elected to positions of
responsibility and trust.
LOOKS LIKE A STRIKE.
The railroad companies and their
employees were unable to reach an
amicable understanding, notwithstand
ing every effort on the part of the
president to adjust the difficulties, and
a strike is called for Monday morning.
This is a most deplorable situation, be
cause if the strike continues only a
short time it is going to work a great
a great hardship upon the country. As
usual it is the public that does most of
the suffering where differences be
tween employer and employee are
settled on the strike basis. Congress
will have to puss some stringent law
requiring arbitration in the settlement
of such disputes, and arbitration is the
only fair and just course to pursue.
Tlie local railroad office has received
orders to receive no fruit or perishable
goods for shipment.
—
LIRRARIAN REPORT.
Owing to the absence of the regular
librarian, the July report is herewith
given:
Books taken out, 66; application for
cards, 7. For month of August, books
taken out, 42; applications, 1; fines col
lected 38c. Donations —The Dong Roll
Johnston; Poor People, Freedman;
Poems, Browning; Spain in History,
Harrison; 3 volumes of Studies in
Scriptures; international Bible Stu
dents Association, given by Mrs. C. A.
Powell.
Mrs. Ketchum gave the Civic League
library a motor load of current maga
zines when they moved last week, and
among them are found late Issues of
Harpers, Hursts, Good Housekeeping,
Cosmopolitan, Vogue. Pictorial, Review
Adventure, Red Book and countless
others.
Our periodical department has not
been used us much as it might have
been, and we extend a most cordial
welcome to both townpeople and our
rural neighbors, to come and enjoy our
magazines and shady lawn. Tuesdays
and Saturdays are our days “at home"
—least ye forget.
MRS, H. A. REED, Librarian.
Saturday evening almost the entire
population was out watching one of
the most remarkable and beautiful dis
plays of the aurora borealis, or north
ern lights, ever placed on exhibition in
this locality. The entire northern part
of the sky was illuminated by waves
of light, or shouting shafts of light, ex
tending from the horizon to the zenith,
that had very much the appearance of
flashes from a searchlight. The glow
was so great at times as to produce
the effect of dim moonlight, and the
light waves, shafts and bands extended
tar south on the east and west horizon.
The display lasted an hour or two, and
was a fascinating sight from start to
finish.
The extra passenger train service on
the branch will be resumed Sunday and
continue during the time the map room
is open at Omak for the accommoda
tion of land seekers who drew winning
numbers at the late land lottery. It is
also rumored that a daily freight ser
vice will be started on the branch to
accommodate fruit shippers.
OROVILLE, WASHIN VTON, SEPTEMBER X, 1910,
If bathers at the swimming pool in
the Okanogan river do not exercise a
trifle more precaution this paper is
going to be under the painful necessity
of chronicling a drowning before the
season is over. Monday afternoon, Mrs.
Chas. T. Peterson and Everett Henry,
one of the immigration officers sta
tioned at this place, had a very narrow
escape from supplying material for an
obituary notice. Mrs. Peterson Mrs.
Hedger and Mr. Henry started to swim
the river at the bath houses. When
only half way across a wave dashed
water in Mrs. Peterson’s face, causing
her to strangle. She laid her hand on
Mr. Henry’s shoulder for support. Mr.
Henry sank, carrying Mrs. Peterson
down with him. Then ensued a struggle
for life. Mr. Henry could render no
assistance, as he was battling to keep
his head above water with indifferent
success. Mrs. Peterson went down and
came up again three times. G. H. Jack
son, after considerable difficulty, man
aged to detach a boat from its moor
ings and succeeded in reaching Mrs.
Peterson as she came to the surface
the third time. She was drawn into the
boat completely exhausted. Mr. Henry
succeeded in reaching shallow water
and staggered to the shore. The par
ties to the narrow escape suffered no
inconveniences from their experience,
but will be careful in the future not to
overtax their natural natatorial ability.
R. H. Hunuer, ot Brewster, was In
terviewing residents of Oroville Mon
day relative to his candidacy for the
legislature, and as he is well known
in this community he did not have to
play the cole of a stranger. Mr. Hunner
is running for the nomination for the
legislature on the republican ticket.
Ha did not seek this office. He only
consented to run after constant urg
ing on the part of a large circle of
friends, who recognized the keen inter
est that he has taken in irrigation and
road matters and are anxious to have a
frlenaat ‘court Mr. Hunner has been
interested in lands on Brewster Flat
for a number of years, and is espec
ially alive, through his experience, to
the necessity of a comprehensive and
applicable water code for the state.
Should he be sent to the legislature
from this county be would devote bis
attention especially to this important
matter that has too long been neglect
ed. He would also advocate the adop
tion of some provision whereby the
state could advance aid in financing
irrigation projects, where the merits
of such an enterprise justified public
support, in the meantime he wou'd be
on the Job looking after the interests
of the county in the matter of 'oad
appropriations. Mr. Hunner has been
a resident of Ferry and Okanogan
counties for years and has traveled so
extensively over Okanogan county that
he has a wider personal acquaintance
than afiy other man in the county. Pe >
sonally Dick Hunner is an exceedingly
likable gentleman a good mixer, bright
and intelligent, and in a legislative
body he would have an Influence for
accomplishment.
Oroville is to have the pleasure of
hearing the world famous DeMoss
Family Concert Entertainers. The
company is to give a concert in the
Orpheum theatre on Friday, Septem
ber 15th, for the benefit of the Presby
terian piano fund.
The DeMoss family have been in the
concert business for forty-three years.
They have traveled throughout Amer
ica and Europe and have sung and
played for presidents, governors and
royalties. To members of the original
DeMoss family and two of the third
generation—little prodigies—will take
part In the entertainment to be given
here.
Film fans do not want to overlook
the bill at the Orpheurn for Saturday
and Sunday evenings, for Mr. Bartell
has something unusually good for his
patrons on this occasion. The chief at
traction Is a Mutual masterpiece, "The
Miracle of Life," with margarita Fisher
and Joseph E. Singleton in the leading
roles. Miss Fischer Is one of the beau
ties of the film world, and a finished ac
tress. “The Miracle of Life" is a de
lightfully strong production and a
great drawing card In the larger
cities. Besides this leading feature
there will be a Keystone comedy that
is an evening’s entertainment in itself.
Harry Fisher, who has the rep
utation of being one of the best chefs
in eastern Washington, has leased the
Radbourne hotel and Is to take exclu
sive charge on Monday. The Radbourne
Is a cozy, homelike concrete hotel, and
Mr. Fisher will without doubt secure
a fair share of public patronage.
A NARROW ESCAPE.
A STRONG CONTENDER,
HE MOSS CONCERT.
AT THE ORPHEUM.
INTERESTING SMOKER.
The smoker advertised to take place
at the Orpheum last Friday evening
was a surprise to those who attended,
as It was so much better than was ex
pected. Hippodromes are so often pull
ed oft under the guise of boxing
matches that the ordinary devotee of
the sport is somewhat leary of letting
go of their good slmoleons to see a
fake performance with the gloves, but
the exhibition last Friday eveiug was
not of that class. Those present saw
two snappy, clean, lively expositions
of boxing, and those who Wore the mils
are inti lied to credit for the perform
ance. Wrestling as well as boxing was
on the program. Exponents of the gen
tle art of catch-as-catch can, or other
wise, failed to show up, but the boys
who spar were there with both hands
and feet, and they gave the audience
the worth of their money. The flrst
number was a four round go between
Phil Albrecht and Kid Mallory, one
of our popular young lads. Mallory was
not certain of the calabre of his oppon
ent at first, and was bashful In setting
the pace, but as proceedings continued
he warmed to his work and gave an
excellent account of himself. The chief
event of the evening was a four round
match between one of our local ton
sorlal artists, Bob Hill, who has been<
dubbed with the rather savage sobri
quet of "Wildcat” Hill, and Kid Mack,
young man hailing from Portland with
a reputation of being somewhat In the
wildcat class himself. It was through
the efforts of Mr. Mack that the smo
ker was put on. This event was real
Interesting, and a very clever exhibi
tion of boxing. Both lads demonstrated
that they were no novices with the mitts
and gave the crowd the best exhibition
ever seen here. Mack was handicapped
with a lame hand, but he sustained his
reputation of being some boxer. He
found a good match in Hill, who han
dles himself with much skill. Hill was
awarded the decision on points.
-
M. E. CHURCH SERVICES.
Sunday" school at 10 a. in.'Preaching
service at II a. m. Subject of sermon,
“The Man of Sorrows.” Preaching ser
vice at 8 p. m. subject of sermon, "The
Blessed Lite.”
Everybody welcome; everybody In
vited; everybody come. The homelike
church and the stranger’s friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pastor.
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Hare returned
home Tuesday evening after an ab
sence of several weeks visiting in Ida
ho.
The ladies of Oroville are cordially
invited to be present at the third an
nual flower show under the auspices
of the Country Club of Omak, to be
held at the church September 5. Doors
open at 2 o'clock. Husbands will he
permitted to accompany their wives.
Joe McDonald who was so seriously
injured ana had such a narrow escape
ft cm death in an into accident on
l.’li wett pass a few weeks ago, arrived
in Oroville Tuesday. He is abl* to in
up and around yet is still suffering
from the effects of a broken shou’dcr
and the shifting of several ribs.
Geo. Devon has had his Spokane ho
tel property thoroughly repaired, and
all the oar marks of the late fire have
been eliminated. The interior of the
building has been renovated and re
modeled, the office and bar now being
thrown Into a single room. The bouse
is in excellent condition throughout.
The location is very convenient to the
depot and ideal for hotel purposes.
Any one wishing to go into the hotel
business would find the Hotel Spokane
a good opening.
Sunday Dr. and Mrs. Efner, Mrs. S.
C. Mitchell aud Mrs. Smalley made an
auto trip iu the doctor’s handsome
Overland car to Chesaw, and from
Chesaw to Republic, returning to Oro
ville the same day. The doctor is en
thusiastic over the going capacity of
his Overland, and states that he made
the run all the way from Chesaw to
Republic and return on high, and
there are some pretty steep grades to
negotiate between the two places as
anybody realizes who has passed over
the road.
I.ast week the Daily Wenatchee
World issued a “Tourist Section,” cov
ering all of the country north of We
natchee with interesting views and a
clever write up of Vernon, B. C. The
write-up was from the pen of Rufus
Woods, manager of the World, who
being very handy with the camera took
a number of views of the concentra
tion camp at Vernon. It was the good
fortune of the Gazette editor to be a
guest of Mr. Woods, and a general ac
count of that trip was held oft until
cuts made from the pictures could be
used. That account, such as it is, is
published this week and the Gazette ex
tends thanks to the World for the mili
tary views and the Hotel Royal picture
that is used In connection with that
screed.
County Candidates.
Representative—R. L. Plcken, To
nasket, republican; R. W. Huuuer,
Brewster, republican; J. L. Freeman.
Tonasket. socialist.
Sheriff—Clair Ward and Ted Ma
loney, both of Okanogan, both repub
licans; A. W. Hogadone, Okanogan,
democrat; Evan Jones, Wlnthrop,
democrat.
Auditor—George E. Hannah and E.
C Quackeubush Okanogan; J. D
Hubbard, Conconully. All republicans.
Clerk—Mary E. McClure and Fred
R. Atkins, both of Okanogan: both re
publicans.
Treasurer—M. J. Flynn, Okanogan,
republican; F. W. Plesstnger, Carlton,
democrat.
Assessor—C. H. Knoaher, Omak, re
publican.
Engineer—Horace E. Smith, Okano
gan, republican; W. J. Hoskyn, Oro
ville, democrat.
Prosecuting Attorney—Chaa A.
Johnson Okanogan, republican
Superintendent of Schools—W A
Thomas, Loomis, republican; Geor
gian Donald, Okanogan, democrat.
Commissioner First District —Hugh
Miller, Riverside, republican; C W
Smith, Orovllle, republican. P, R
Hershberger. Orovllle, democrat.
Commissioner Second District—Wm
Anderson, Wlnthrop, republican. Vlr
gll Dunbar Pateros, republican.
Coroner—Victor G. Grove, Chesaw,
republican: Ed. Yarwood, Okanogan,
republican.
Justice of the Peace, Okanogan Pre
cinct No. 3. —S. J. Sincock, republican.
Justice of the Peace, Okanogan Pre
cinct No. 1, —Howard Vleh, republican.
Justice of the Peace, Orovllle Pre
cinct No. I.—E. E. Parsons, republican.
LYRIC NEWS NOTES.
In “Mice and Men,” a Famous Play
er’s-Paramount picture that wll be on
at the Lyric Saturday and Sunday
evenings, Miss Marguerite Clark has
an unusual opportunity to do espec
ially clever work, because, during the
course of this play she portrays ev
ery stage of an orphan girl from her
unfortunate and unhappy life as a
child to her ultimate debut as a
charming and graceful society bu4).
Then having reached maturity, she
proceeds to break hearts as only a
Marguerite Clark could.
For Wednesday and Thursday the
Lyric will present Hazel Dawn In "My
Lady Incog.” Suppose you are a south
ern belle, reared In the lap of luxury
but temporarily penniless, who have
introduced yourself to a group of to
tal strangers as a baroness. Shortly
afterard, a stranger comes to the
house and is announced as the baron,
your husband! What are you going to
do? Run, and lose the only chance of
winning a reward that will enable you
to keep a roof over your head, or stand
and meet the man and trust to fate to
help you out of your frightful dilem
ma?
Among other interesting .'eatures
coming to the Lyric soon will be that
famous old production of “Tennessee’s
Pardner.” One thing that makes this
particular production so interesting
is the fact that considerable portion
of this production was taken in the
old mission of San Fernando, Cal.
Permission was obtained after much
effort to use the old mission as the
scenes of the production. This quaint
old place, a relic of former days, was
built by the Jesuits about 1600 and
is one of a series of missions, each
situated about a day’s Journey from
the other in a line of travel from
Mexico to Monterey.
Sessue HayaKawa, the famous Jap
anese film star of the Lasky studios,
has been presented with a theatre in
Los Angeles by his countrymen where
he frequently appears at the head of
his own company. He will next be
seen in "Allen Souls.”
W. C. Jones, the Nighthawk merch
ant, was a visitor in town Wednesday.
The contract for installing a heating
plant in the new general hospital has
been let to S. H. Sanderson, and that
means that ttie heating arrangements
for that public building will be first
class in every particular.
Arthur Lund, of Tonasket, whose
successful banking career in tills
county stamps him as one of the most
careful and shrewdest financiers doing
business in any of the smaller towns
of the state was a visitor in town on
business Tuesday.
Mrs. W. S. Lewis, mother of Chas.
S. Lewis, and her daughter Miss Anna
Lewis, left for their home in Michigan
Wednesday morning by the way of
Seattle, after having spent the summer
visiting with the Lewis family on El
lemhom mountain. The visitors were
so charmed with the country that they
will probably repeat their visit next
year.
$1.60 PER TEAR
