The Caldwell Watchman
VOL. 30. C;_LUMBIA. LOUISIANA. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER
HOSPITAL MEMBERS
GIVE UP POSITIONS
FRANK B. HAYNE, WALTER
STAUFFER AND ORLOFF LAKE
SEND IN RESIGNATIONS.
OUTRAGED BY GOV. ACTIONS
Sought to Postpone Action Until Mr.
Hayne and Active Head of Hospital
Board and Absent Members
Could Return.
I aton Ronie" -
Outraged at the action 'If (ovirnor
I'!,asant and his appoulntEs in iutz
ceremoniously ousting )Dr. ('. ID. Wilk
ins as superint,'nidtiit of the (Charily
Hlospital, Flrank Hi. Ilayne. vice pre>:
dent, Walter Stauffer and Orloff Lake
sent in their resignatlons as lmembers
of the Board of Administrators of
the Institution. MTr. Ilayne wired his
resignation from North C'arolina,
where he is resting at a health re
sort. Messrs. Lake and Stauffer sent
their resignations by mail to Baton
Rouge.
Governor Pleasant and his four new
appointees constituting a majority of
the Charity Hospital board, elected
I)r. Stephen W. Stafford to replace Dr.
Wilkins as superintendent. Messrs.
Lake and Stauffer, the only two old
members present, protested vigorous
ly, contending that Dr. Wilkins had
made an enviable record and clhalleng
ing I)r. Stafford's qualifications. They
sought to postpone action until Mr.
RIayne, the vice president and active
head oe the hospital board, who is in
North Carolina. and Charles A. Far- i
well, absent members, could return.
,heir pleas were ignored, and Dr.
Stafford's election carried through.
It developed that a telegraphic plea
from Mr. Hayne. addressed to the t
board, also was ignored by the gov- V
eruor. A telegram .requeStiug delay.
was sent by Mr. Hayne addressed to
the "Board of Administrators, Charity
Hospital." It was received at the
board office and opened, according to
custom, by Fred Matthews, secretary- I
treasurer.
STATE PARAGRAPHS.
After a preliminary hearing at
Amite City, Judge Ellis refused to re
lease under bonds S. E. Brown. mayor
of Roseland, La.; City Marshal A.
Germany and Murray Sharkey. charg
ed with the murder of Alphonse Wat
son, former marshal of Roseland, who
was killed August 1.
While playing on a swing beneath 1
an old shed near their home, Lila and 1
Helen Timmons, little daughters of
J. T. Timmons of Longstreet. were
seriousy injured when the shed col
lapsed, pinning them 1enoath. The
injuries of Lila, the older child, may I
prove fatal.
Five acres of the Edgerly oil field I
were sold to the Gulf Refining ('om- it
pany for $100,000. The land was
owned by a syndicate of ('alcasioe u
men. This is the largest sum ever I
paid for oil land in this section of time
state. The land was purchased last
March for $25,000.
A suit attacking the validity of the
$250,000 road bond issue has been
filed in the District Court at Mans
field. The plaintiffs in the suit are
The Home Realty Company, S. W.
Joyner & Co. and Dowling nrotoers.
Limited, all private corporations.
Papers were placed on file, where
by the Parish of Calcasieu obtains ti
tle to the drive along thIe lake and
river front west of Lake Charles. The
road s a continuation of the shell
beach drive from the end of the car
line, and is 50 feet wide.
The Many Parish School Board has
just had a called session to transact
business relative to voting a special
ichool tax.
The cotton season for last year
closed at Boye July 31, resulting in I
4037 bales moved by rail. j
The annual Hioliness camp meeting
has closed at Fort Jesup, and also
the one at MarthaviIle.
The enrollment of Natchitoches
farmer boys at the short course has
reached 155.
The hot wells at Boyee are being
well patronized this season.
The High School will open at Many 1
September 4.
Boyce High kichool will open Sep
tember 20. r
'(.Suti- lit piante-rs of boalt-;,in art
lpret-ttin-. atain:st reports that the
rice crop v-ill lei a turiper oue lthi>
e'ar. Instead tIh-c declare the (crop
i", ;allini fr, ito te ,o per ('cent bte
0',',' -'X\lee tat leols.
A.\ illtstratili of this i. giv''t :
a letter rcte.ived Iby i'. i St. M1arlt i
ct N,.\v Orle-ann, otine el the- hisi knewn
arnl rlirgest  licet' planters in tlhe riate.
fr'tel  ls soil, A. .i St. Martin, who is
ope(rating the' 'r ldenle ce lte nltati ll
at Tat" . St. ('tc a le parish. 'l t s l'!
ter was ro c'iviced ltii reads:
"l"to c!n 'vhlat \'e ,l-'t rn on all sides
the y'! e i w ,ry (l cp tiltl-, tin ve
to three, snait s htehwi t\pe ct:!t Oll>o
\ 'e  H n til hit 11 cai , t i :1 i!l -.I11 noi
,lrin) .'e ! ice Ice - "ow ..;:, t. W e' w lil
not r, : ! te l : c in !c ti.s m ntl \w\1 finish
soon if it idoes' ticet rain."
Mr. ýt. Martin stated ltaa le-, had
'xpectetd at lb ast 7c,0ce hna .'. ;id the
reoe4prt tha his e',ip wold ei reach
S.Of, ) il1 ,strat0 d fuly t hat L.:,lsianafl -
crop waiq far traini h'itcr the big creep
rp'ortt d. The quality of the rice.
h(i\wever., lie state's. is unusually ex
'eilent.
Mr. St. Martin's plantation is one
of the largest in the state, and har
tniusual equipment, threshing file
bags a day.
At a special election held the vet
ers of Oberlin School district voted
to levy a special tax of ten mills for
five years to aid the public school s
The vote was close, the tax winning
by a majority of ten votes and $3,260
out of a total of 102 votes cast, show
ing a total valuation of $76,.120. In
School District No. S, being in the
northwestern part of Allen parish, a
proposition to levy a tax of five mills
for ten years was carried by a vote
of 43 for to 14 against, and a valua
tion of $15,700 for and $:3,20 against.
Colonel W. T. La.sitor, of Shreve
port. commander of General Leroy
stafford Camp, U. C. V., has been ap
pointed colonel and judge advocate on
the staff of General George P. larr!
son, commander in chief of the Unit
ed Confederate Veterans. Notification
was contained in an official connmmuni
cation received by Colonel Lassitor
from William E. Mickle, adjutant
general and chief of-staff.
After tramping the streets of Now
Orleans all nay seeking work. Miss
Clotille Gianelloni, aged 20 years, of
Paincourtville, La., succumbed to the
heated and fainted. She had only 50
cents and was sadly discouraged, she
told authorities at Charity Hospital,
where she was taken by the ambu
lance. Miss Gainelloni is a niece of
Frank Gaianelloli, postmaster at
Paincourtville, and has made her
home with him for a number of years.
She will return there.
Corn fields in the neighborhood of
Valverda Postoffice, have suffered de
vastating raids by bears recently. For
several years farmers in that region
have been at war with the bears. F.
B. Roubique, manager of the El Dora
do Planting and Manufacturing Com
pany of Valverda Postoffice, shot a
(bear weighing 400 pounds. height
more than 6 feet.
In the election held in the eetold iteEighth
ward of Iberia parish, for the continu
ation of the special 8-mill high school
tax for a term of three years, the tax
won by a good majority, the amount
of assessment and votes being as fol
lows: For the tax, 141 votes, $112,
000; against, 27 votes. o#0.000.
The white teachers of the public
schools of Vernon parish will assem
ble in regular institute in leesville,
September 4-8 inclusive. A program
of splendid school topices has been a'
ranged by Superintendent R. A. Bloyd
and each teacher will be notified of his
or her assignment in time to make
such preparation as may be neces
sary.
Lieutenant N. A. Sanders of the
Tangipahoa Scouts, now in the fed
eral service in Benito. Tex., with the
First Louisiana regiment, was one of
the fifty-six second lieutenants recent
ly drafted by Genera? Punston from
the militia of several Southern states
for permanent service in the regular
army.
The 150-ton silo at the normal
school at Natchitoches has been tilled
with corn and sorghutm and sealed to
cure. It will be ted to the cattle after
frost has killed all green feed The
sorghum yielded ten tons to the acre
and there are twelve acres.
Information was received at .ees
ville from Baton Rouge, that Gov
ernor Pleasant had appointed S. E.
Weldon as School Board member for
Ward Five; J. D. Stalshy, oe the
same ward, having resigned recent.
ly, the vacancy thus occurred.
Governor Pleasant has called a spe
cial election in Caddo parish Novem
ber 7, the date of the congressional
election, to select a successor to Rep
resentative John McW. Ford, who re
signed to become mayor of Shreve.
nnt.
GALICIAN CITY CAPTURED BY THE RUSSIANS
' Y
f A:.
I J.)
IN.I
~~&.. M f
Viwof Ki~lnski street In St tt1su, the Imp~ortanit G ilicinn city cuitur(ed by the lRussianz forces. Stunii'.I i
n rr0t riilrntid 'Aster Th(1 of Imme.ose strtoe.~c cnrtip
DISCUSS R[V[NU[
BILL IN SENATEI
PARTISAN ATMOSPHERE WILL
PREVAIL WHILE DISCUS
SION IS ON.
Washington.--With Senator Sim
mons, chairman of the finance com
mittee, submitting figures designed to
disprove Republican charges of Demo
ocratic extravagance and Senator
Smoot, Republican tinance expert, as
serting that the Democratic party
should be convicted of attempting to
procure votes under false pretenses,
general debate on the $205,000,000
emergency revenue bill began in the
Senate.
There were indications on every
hand of a partisan battle royal to be
waged for several days.
Insisting that national defense, ]
paredness and the Mexican situatfb
were altogether responsible
necessity of special revenue legil7
t ion and proposed bond issue. Sen or
Simmons declared Republicans iln i
('ongress had clamored for even grat. (
or expenaltures for defense, and. bav- 1
ing done this, were seeking partisan 1
advantage by making false charges of
Democratic extravagance to the pub
lie.
Senator Smoot, opening the Repub- I
lican assault on the revenue bill, said
if the Democratic party were to be
retained in cont ol of the government
The country would "suffer an era of
unequaled extravagance comtined
with inefficiency unsurpassed." His
attack was supported by Senator Cur- i
tis.
To prove his contention that nor
mal appropriations of this session
were not excessive, Senator Simmons
submitted Treasury Department esti
mates for the year 1917, showing that,
excluding postal appropriations, bond
issues already authorized and amounts 1
that will not be expended, revenues
must be provided for disbursements
of $1.126.243,000. Of this amount the
total appropriated for national de-1
fense wouin. aggregate about $654,000,
000 and the senator submitted other
figures to prove that this extraordi
nary amount, due to preparedness and
the Mexican emergency, exceeded nor
mal defense appropriations by about 1
$.72,:s0,000.
American Cargo Seized.
Waslhington.-Possibility that seiz
ure at Hong Kong of American goods
on the British steamer Kafue from
-'oew York to Manila, following a sim
ilar seizure on the steamer Chinese
Prince and two Spanish vessels, may
foreshadow a general interference
with American trade with the Philip
pines and led the State Department
to ask for-full details from the Amer
cian consul at Hong Kong with the
view of making a strong protest.
Equipment Decreased.
Chicago.--There were 7,342 less
freight cars and 815 less locomotives
in service in the United States at the
close of the fiscal year 1915 than at i
the c(lose of 1914, says the current
number of the Railway Age Gazette, i
notwithstanding the natural growth
in the demand for railway equipment
from year to year."
Br.ck From Polar Region.
NSnme. Alaska.-Six memnibers of the
Vilhjalmer Stefansson Arctic expedi
Wion -ir arrived here after turee
years in the Polar regions said Stef
ansson, who remained in the Arctic
to continue his work of exploring
newly discovered land north of Prince
Pat;rick land, probably will not 're
turn this year.
879 Guards Discharged.
San Antonio, Tex.-A total of 879
guardsmen have been released under
the dependent relative provision. (
ITALY FORMALLY AT
WAR WITH GERMANY
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT HAS
AROUSED GREAT ENTHU
SIASM AT ROME.
CROWDS PARADING STREETS
Italy's Position Has Been Anomalous
Since She Withdrew From the
Alliance and Declared War
on Austria.
Rome.--Baron Sonnino, minister of
reign affairs, announces that Italy
0onsiders herself in a state of war
~ Germany.
The official announcement of a
state of war between Italy and Ger
Imany has aroused great enthusiasm
'here. Cheering crowds are parading
the streets. applauding the govern
ment's decision.
Italy and Germany have been drift
ing steadily toward war. In fact,
Italy's formal declaration amounts to
little more than official recognition of
a state of affairs which already ex
isted. The declaration became inevi
table when Italy recently sent troops
to Saloniki to co-operate in the cam
paign on the Macedonian front, as
Germany is directing the forces and
has troops on the battle line.
Italy's position has been anomal
ous since she withdrew from the tri
ple alliance and declared war on
Austria. Although by this act she at
rayed herself against her former al
lies, Germany and Austria, she re
mained officially at peace with Ger
many until recently. Germany exert
ed every effort to induce her to re
main neutral, sending to Rome as am
bassador Prince von Buelow, one of
the ablest statesmen of Germany.
The prince for some time averted
the war between Austria and Italy,
and when he saw a rupture was inevi
table he negotiated a special agree
ment under which in case of war be
tween Austria and Italy, Germany and
Italy pledged themselves to respect
the properties and lives of their re
spective subjects in each others do
mains. This meant for Germany a
guarantee of many millions of dollars'
worth of properties in Italy and for
Italy the safety of 30,000 Italian sub
jects in Germany.
According to unofficial reports,
Italy's allies were dissastisfied and
asked the Italian representatives at
the Paris entente conference why
their nation was not at war with Ger
many. Italy already had agreed not
to conclude a separate peace and at
the Paris conference sanctioned the
plan for a permanent high council of
the entente powers for future conduct
of the war. The increasing co-opera
tion among the entente allies and the
necessity for bringing into service
Italy's surplus of troops, which could
not be employed on the other fronts
without bringing on war with
Germany, gradually brought Italy into
such a position that it became evident
a declaration of hostilities against
Germany was only a matter of time.
Woman Is Put to Death.
Paris.--Mille. Felice Pfaat was put
to death at the Lighthouse shooting
range at Marseilles, having been con
victed of espionage by the ('ouncil of
War of the Fifteenth region.
Will Go to Baltimore.
Washington.-President Wilson de
cided to go to Baltimore during the
last week in September to speak be
fore a convention of the National
Grain Dealers' Association.
GERMAN SUBMARINE
SURPRISE TO OWNEIS
DEUTSCHLAND TRAVELED 4.200
MILES ON HER HOMEWARD
VOYAGE.
london.---lReports of the return of
the Germlan submarine Deutschland
from the United States are corrobo
rated in a telegram received at Am
sterdam from Bremen. as forwarded
by Renter's correspondent.
According to this information, the
Deutschland traveled 4,'00 miles on
her homeward voyage. At the begin
ning the sea was tempestuous, but la
ter it became, more calm. The Deutsch
land proved to bhe able to navigate
the stormy seas excellently. lier en
gines worked faultlessly. No ice
bergs were passed on the journey.
The American government, says the
dispatch. acted in a correct manner as
a neutral, rigorously enforcing re
spect for its frontier from British and
French warships by the employment
of its own men of war.
After a British cruiser entered
Chesapeake Bay at night more effec
tive measures were taken to en
force neutrality. No less than eight
British warships, it is said. were on
the alert, surrounded by numerous
small American vessels which had
been chartered for the purpose of
placing nets and obtaining informa
tion as to the movements of the
Deutschland. Nevertheless the sub
marine succeeded in leaving undetect
ed. A distance of 100 miles was tra
versed under water without difficulty.
The Deutschland returned home
slightly damaged, according to an
Exchange Telegraph dispatch from
The Hauge, which says this informa
tion is contained in a telegram from
Bremen. The members of the crew
were unwilling, it adds, to give de
tails of the return voyage.
The arrival of the submarine sur
prised her owners, as she was not ex
pected to dock within a week.
Medical Aid Civilizes.
New York.-In an attempt to ad
vance civilization through tile me
dium of medical relief, the Philippine
government co-operating with the in
ternational health board of the Rocke
feller Foundation, will send a hospital
ship to the Sulu Archipelago, Inhabit
ed by approximately 200,000 Moros
and other savage tribes. The medical
service will be maintained five years.
Assails Paper Trust.
Washington.-Senator Martine of
New Jersey assailed the so-called pa
per trust on the floor of the Senate
because of the high price of news
print paper and submitted an amend
ment to the revenue bill to place
news print paper and materials en
tering into it on the free list of the
tariff.
Threatens Hughes' Life.
Long Beach, ('al.--he(, Long Beach
police made public a let ter received
by tihe secretary of ('Charles E.
Hughes, threatening to kill the candi
date. The letter was mailed in Los
Angeles. It reads: We warned you
before you left the supreme bench
that you never would sit in the presi
dential chair. We will get you. Watch
out at Santa Ana."
Suit Filed By Nashvll:e.
Nashville, Tenn.-Suit was filed by
the city of Nashville against the
Southwestern Surety Insurance Com
pany, the Southern Surety ('ompany
and Rit. Miles Bumrns, former city comp
troller, seeking to recover $33.000, the
amount of municipal funds alleged to
have been embezzled recently as the
result of Burns' negligence. The
surety companies furnished Burns'
i bond as comptroller.
ROUMANlA ENTERS
WAR WITH ALLIES
GERMAN MINISTER AT BUCHA
REST TO REQUEST HIS
PASSPORTS.
FOURTEENTH ENTRY IN WAR
Joining Allies Considered a C,reat Tri
umph For Roumania, Not Because
of Her Military Resources. But
On Account of Its Locat:cn.
Or ..\I- - il l iu g r.l ". :' V
f '( )}l O t l L ' T i ae ' a . n o ut i es)l i l t ' ! : : t' ' " Ilu, m a "
i t s tru tt "d ie ( i : .:. ,it
,l (' hatlc ' .' t t o r el ' lq u e .ý , , {- p - o 't
and inflorml th-e lt ,urnal il;a o(nv rn
uinent that ;Ge'rlany con.l:dl r h isel
at war with loumaniai. 'Lirlck'y and
Ilulgaria are expeited to d, the satme.
ALlmost siilltani ou.Ylsly o illllutlmiall
Iroops began efforts to enter Transyl
vania Ihrough lthe eastern ('arpathians
tow\vard Krnslladt, the t(ti.f city of
Transylvania. and to advanI'' in:he
direction of Ilermantad:. vdently
in an e,'ort to press nor:l hward to
ward the ltukow ina and Galiciani lr
ders and take in the rear the Austro
Germans who are trying to check the
Russian advance \vest 'ard.
Vienna reports that in thie firat
clashes between Rouniuiajn ;and A~s
tro-Hunigarian force: IRonumanlian5
were captured. The ' noumnianian at
tacks are described as trea'herogus.
Kronstadt and lier.nuannstadt. to
ward which the Rouniantliai are mniak
ing their first Tfforts at an advance,
are two of the most important cities
in , ransylvania. TheIy are near the
southern border of d Iuingary, the first
aboutI six miles from the Rlaonlanian
frontier and the last an nuit l miles
fromi the frontier. Kronstadt i; 70
miles east of Ilerlinanustad'.
Kronlst adt is thie miost important
commercial and nitu::lfa rl'ct rr . cen
ter of Trans lvania. It has a poptula
tion of 41.0t00. tHermannstadt has a
population of ,.000. Roumnnians
make up a large part of the popula
tion of both cities.
Roumania is the fourteenth nation
to enter the war. Ever since the vrear
conflict began. it "ias been expected
that she would join one side or the
other.
Her joining the allies is considered
a great triumph for them, not only
because of her military resources. but
because of her geographical position.
Russian troops passing through Rou
mania now can attack the VIulgarians
from the north, while the allied army.
with its base at Saloniki, attacks
them and their Teutonic allies from
the south.
Roumania has a population of U.S00.
000, and her army is estimated at
580,000. As to its effectiveness, there
is a radical difference in opinion. It
has been describled as one of the most
thoroughly equipped and best disci
plined armies in Europe. but recent re
ports have contradicted this. Recent
ly it has been said that tihe officers
are ill trained and undisciplined, that
the army lacks heavy arillery and
that its flying equiptwnt is inferior.
Officer Kiils Mexicans.
Tucson. Ariz.--After his horse had
been shot from under him by two
Mexicans. suspected of having perpt
trated a burglary, andli he himself had
been shot through tihe hip. ('onstable
John Bright of ('ourtland. ('ochise
county, drawing his gun as he lay
prone on the ground beside the body
of his horse, killed the two Mexicans,
near ('outrland. Bright will recover.
Start Aviation School.
('hicago.-Prepara;tions for starting
an aviation school at which men will
le trained for duty in war were be
eon ihere by Capt. Joseph A. Morrow
of tlhe signal corps of thl Ulnite.d
States army. First l,ieut. Arthur R.
('hristie. who has b·rn in the avia
tion corps with Gen. J. J. Pershling'
expedition in Mexico. will assist.
Funds For Guardsmen.
San Antonio. '[x. A fundl of .750,
nO0 has been made availahlle ixhv tl
W\ar Deartmetut for paymtnnt ,f 'a;tte
troops on the border. (G.neral F]un
ston said thie amount will pay guardis
nmen for their services up to aId in
cluding the month of July. Stn, ~fI
the state troops have mlluch blnek Iv',
due theni.
Killed During First Ride.
Salem, Va.--A. W. Garnr of Drap
ersville was 90 ',ears old before lie
venturedl to take a ride in an automo
bile. The car in which he took his
first ride plnugod over a 50-foot em
bankment, turned over five times te
fore it struck, and killed Garner and
tour others, including his wife.
