THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL XX NO. 144.
HAKRK. VERMONT, FRIDAY". SEPTEMBER 1, 191R.
7'Y-ZlM)
PRICE, ONE CENT.
KING OF GREECE
SURRENDERED
HIS THRONE
Constantine Abdicated Today in Favor
of the Crown Prince Who Supports
the Entente Allies and Venizelos Be
comes the Power Behind the Throne
AN OPEN AVOWAL
OF ENTENTE LEANING
Turn of Events in Greece May Cause
Greece to Follow Rumania in Actual
Participation in War Against Ger
manic Powers
London, Sept. 1. King Constantine of Greece has abdicated,
according to the British official press representative at Saloniki.
The press representative says the king abdicated in favor of the
ciown prince, with Venizelos as the power behind the throne. The
new policy, he reports, will be to work with the entente allies.
According to this information, Premier Zaimis will remain at
the head of the government. The correspondent questions whether
the entente allies desire active assistance of Greece.
Various rumors are in circulation here in regard to the situation
in Greece. Reuter despatches from Saloniki say there has been
fighting between the Greek garrison at Saloniki and Greek volun
teers recently organized to assist the Greek regulars who are re
sisting the Bulgarians in Macedonia. French troops intervened to
suppress the fighting, and the. garrison finally surrendered and
marched out of Saloniki.
ATTEMIT TO FREE
MILDRED BREWSTER
Proceedings to Be Brought to Declare
Sane the Woman Who Shot and Killed
Anna Wheeler in Montpeiier 19
Yeari Ago.
Supervisor of the insane have brought
petition, in Washington county court
for a hearing to I held on the question
of the HMinty of Mildred Brewster, th
Montpelier woman who hot and killed
Arum Wheeler 1! veara ago, and who ha
been eontlned since the murder in the
W'aterlmrv asylum, having been foun
not guilty hv reaaon of insanity. A hear
ing will probably be held before Judge
Frank I.. Fiah during the September
term of court.
The supervisors are represented by
Williani A. Lord, who waa counsel for
the Brewster woman during her trial, and
they set up in their petition that in their
belief ha la no longer insane but a nor
mal peraon and would not, if released, be
a menace to society. The board ia unani
mous in their opinion but it ia under
Mood that Supt. (irout of the atate ho,
pital i not in sympathy with the move'
ment. to free the woman.
The Mildred Brewster case la familiar
to manv people in Washington county,
the murder being the remit of a love af
fair. She waa released following a hear
ing about a decade ago but after a brief
period of freedom was ordered recom
mitted by another judge.
BULGARIA HAS
DECLARED WAR
ON RUMANIA
NOW IN THE FORT BARRACKS.
Vermont Troops Abandon Their Mobil
ization Camp.
Burlington, Sent. 1. When the sol
diers of the First Vermont infantry
turned yesterday from Brattleboro,
where they were turned back after start-
ng for the .Mexican boundary, thev were
assigned t'" the barracks at Fort Ethan
Allen, and t'amp Gov. Gates has been
abandoned. Announcement was also
made that no student or men with de
pendents will be discharged to-day, Sep
tember 1.
The order forbidding the discharge of
college men came in the form of a tele
gram to the adjutant-general just aftcf
2 o clock in the afternoon. It was signed
"Simpson," that. is, Colonel William A.
Simpson, adjutant of the department of
the East. Colonel Simpson is at Gov
ernor' island, X. Y. This waa his tele
gram. "War department directs that i
army appropriation bill makes provision
for dependent relatives no discharges on
CHILDREN EXCLUDED
FROM VERMONT FAIRS
Those Under 13 Years of Age are Alco
Barred from Attending Moving Pic
ture Shows in Rutland, Ben
nington, Windsor and
Windham Counties,
Rutland, Sept. 1. The state board of
Y . . Ilr"" nig" orucreu inai an cnu-
VlllCiai Announcement 01 Uie dren under IA years of age be exclude!
A ttr it.j. t u from the fairs to be held in Vermont and
SlLUUU vas inaue ill. Oct- moving picture showa in Rutland. Ben
i- i j t-i j.j nincton, Windsor and Windham countier
lOIUKI ana rorwaraea 10 The action was taken after an extended
I J : ! i ... ...
T U r-4.- r discussion wnicn waa participated in by
LontlOn by a KeUter COr- t;ate and other prominent men.
The rules promulgated are as follow i
All children under 15 rears of ago
hall be excluded from all faira and the
so-called Rutland carnival shall be aban
doned unless effective measure can be
taken, sstisfaetory to the local board of
health, by which children under 15 years
LESS LIKE7 IHOOD
OF A STRIKE AS
CONGS10RKS
respondent
RUMANIANS KEPT
ON IN TRANSYLVANIA f,n U x'luded from public functions
ooin maoors ana out.
"All motion picture houses and the
atrea in Rutland, Bennington, Windsor
nrl V inHhim miihImb .kail ...IhJ. all
Have Occupied Important children under IS years of age from all
, , . , , , entertainments.
lnaUSlnai J.OWTi OI reirO- "In towns in which there see one or
I ...... : i i ii
SCny and Have Captured children under IS years of age may
m i ir 11 Tru l. I " wiunru imni punnc gainerings, in
lanunge Valley, VVniCn eluding churches and Sunday schools, at
tj. c -v...ltne discretion of the local board of
inuicaius a opreauing uut health.
"These rules and regulations shall i-e-
I main in force during the month of Sep
tember, 1916.
"C. F. Dalton,
"Secretary Vermont State Board of
of Offensive
Iwdon, Sept. 1. Bulgaria has declared Health.'
war on Rumania, according to an offi
cial announcement made at Saloniki and! BULLETS FLEW BUT
forwarded by a Renter correspondent.
NONE HIT MARK
GERMANS PIERCED
BRITISH FRONT
AT TWO POINTS
Fracas in Town of Elmore Caused By
Daniel Pilbin'e, Jealousy, It is Supposed,
When Girl Went to Fair with
Another Man.
Elmore, Sept. 1. Daniel Pilbiii is
in the Lamoille county jail nt
Hvde Park, charged with assault
with intent to kill, and officers
with a warrant of arrest went after
Ward Price, to whom the above despatch is credited, is the offi
cial British press representative, designated to act for all British
publications in that area. Nevertheless his despatches are subject
not only to Greek censorship, but to French military censorship,
which controls all the lines of communication from Athens. The
.fact that this censorship, as well' as' the British censorship in
London, has permitted the despatch to come through, is regarded
as significant.
The. reign of Constantino I. as king of'
the Hellenes was brief, dating only from
March 18, 1013, when his father, George
I., wag assassinated in Saloniki.
Born on Aug. 3, 1868, he waa educated
largely by private tutors from Leipsic,
which wag said to have stamped upon
him a permanent German influence. His
military education was furthered by at
tendance at maneuvers in Germany. He
became a brother-in-law of the German
emperor by marrying the hitter's sister,
Princess Sophia, in 1889.
His alleged pro-German leanings, thus
indicated, were not always popular with
bis people, and a strong party antagon
, istic to his desire to have Greece preserve
neutrality and in favor of joining the al
lies, precipitated a cabinet crisis which
was weathered with difficulty.
When Constantine came to the throne
it was said he aimed to restore the for
mer grandeur of the ancient Hellenic
empire, and that he was a believer in the
old national prophecy that under the
reign of a Constantine and a Sophia the
eastern empire would be called into life
Again and the cross restored on St. So
phia at Constantinople in place of the
crescent.
By the peace treaties signed after the
. Balkan wars, Greece added a consider
able stretch of Turkish territory to her
domain and in December, 1913, the long
desired annexation of the islands of Crete
was carried out, King Constantine him
self hoisting the Hellenic flag over the
fort.
With the entrance of Turkey into the
European war the question of the Inter
vention of Greece soon became to be se
riously considered but King Constantine
insisted upon strict neutrality. The cab
inet, headed by Premier Venizelos, which
was for war on the side of the allies.
finally tended its resignation. The Greek
' attitude, at least so far as the war party
was concerned, was largely to the effect
that if Greece had no hand In the war,
her interests might suffer when peace
was arranged.
The Athens correspondent of the Lon
don Morning Post on March 9, 1913, at-
of Bulgaria, is the real reason of their
opposition to Greece's participation in
the operations against Turkey.
The queen, of course, as a Hohenzol
lern princess, is wholly for her brother's
cause. Hardly a dav passes but she re
ceives from the German military attache
the official German war reports. I am
informed by personages who are compe
tent to know that on the evening preced
ing the king's final decision a long tele
gram from the emperor was received at
the palace, doubtless urging Greece s ab'
stention from the war. I am also in
formed from the same source that the
queen openly declared that if Greece took
such action she would immediately leave
her adopted country."
London Official Report Admits Setback
Between Ginchy and Highwood But
States the Frontage Was
Small.
r j c- i ... . , , I Daniel's brother, Charles, who is charged
London, Sept. 1. Five successive at- ., , ... ... . 6 ,
' I with fnlltncr linon llson irra nt an,
. 1. - ! - t .. r- . 1-I n t e
kvivb trr iiih.i. i,jr v.rinu-.-, wuu heating him up. Daniel is said to have
that account will be granted. In cases night on British positions on the Somme shot twice at Mr. Vigeant and one
originating after August 30 no applica- fronf, xhP WBr offi announced to-day through a door at his sister' Emily ig'
tions should be forwarded. No individ- ... . ,,. i.:,;.i, leant, yesterday morning.
uals will be discharged from the service n f , 4 The trouble began Wednesday when
on account of being bona fide students or " " "" - i'"'"1" Miss Emily Vigeant went to the Lamoill
teachers in colleges and schools. I hese Between dincny ana Hignwooa.
instructions supercede all
OLD HOME WEEK.'.?.'
ENDED MOST.'.:
SATISFACRLIY
Athletic Contests, Big Dinner'BaJeall
Game, Band Concert
Featured tbe Last
Williamstewn,
'. .
and TAnfr". '.
Day at .
previous or
ders on this subject. All orders hereto
fore issued from these headquarters dis
charging students to take effect after
September 1 are revoked. Hold individ
uals concerned and notifr them."
When the militia moved out they left
behind only the frame offices iiJ.ed a
headquarters at Camp Governor Gate
the Y. M. C. A. tent and the tents of the
adjutant-general, captains Bnd other of
fleers. The officers will remove the rest
of their things, and the camp will not
be kept open even as an enlisting sta
tion unless instructions to the contrary
or cancelling previous orders are re
eeiveci.
REVOLUTION IN MACEDONIA.
Reported in Despatch from Saloniki to
Have Started Thursday.
London, Sept. 1. The beginning of a
revolution in Macedonia is reported in a
Renter despatch filed yesterday at Saloniki.
PLUCKY CHAP FINALLY WON
But Had to Go Five Heats at Middlebury
Fiar.
Middlebury, Sept. 1 The third day of
the Addison county fair was held under
clear skies. The grandstand, which seats
5,000 people, was filled soon after the
races were called at 1:15 o'clock, and it
was estimated that there were 15,000
people on the grounds.
An exciting race was the 2:24 trot.
which went five heats before Pluckv Chan
came through a winner. The Only One
ana wiuia.m mng also made strong bids
for the $300 purse in this event. In the
2:17 pace, purse $400, Princess N'ellie,
after finishing fourth in the first two
heats, took the next three heats in suc
cession, thus nosing out Pedro, who
looked the winner in the first two heats.
ine a:u pace, purse i,uw, was easy
EMBALMERS' OFFICERS NAMED.
county fair at Morrisville witlj Allen
Bellville of Worcester. Daniel Pilbm
is said to have been heard to swear t
kill Bellville. He went to the fair Wed
nesday and was upon the grounds look
ing for Bellville, where two of his fel
WITH BIG GAINS low own,,m,n funi nim 8ni brought
in in nnmc in an auio.
VAitftritav mnrnini, t. svan nVl,fe.lr
r sjhj, n . c? . . - ft,- n . 1 - "
"uwu, ncpvii. guim mal. um p,ibin went to the home of the Vigeants
It is said that he shot once at Wilson
Virrnafit. u-itfi A 3C-ft!lHA r.vnlmr r nit
Day, Of Which 2,400 Were - mi-H him. nd then went nn the stairs
Germans. I to Miss Vigeant's door. Her brother
veiled to her. She SDranir from ber bed
Petrograd, via London, Sept. 1. In the lust as a bullet sang through the door
course 01 names yesteraay on tne west- amj lodged in the bedclothes. She strtig
em Russian front, says the Russian offl- Bled a moment holding the door and
cial statement to-day, the Russians cap- then turned to the window and jumped
tured 289 officers and over 15,000 men, of out upon the veranda roof. Meanwhile
RUSSIANS RENEW
THEIR OFFENSIVE
whom 2,400 were Germans.
John A. Gibson of Enosburg Falla the
ew rresiaent. RUMANIANS TAKE
Burlincrton. Sent. 1. The Vermont Fu
neral Directors A Embalmers' association 1'ETKOSENY, HUNGARY got his sUter down.
Ill 10 ill iiuuffi ricv nil 1 1 1. . i ci scant aiiiiw si
John A. Gibson o7Frg FaH.7 flrsV Captured Tarlunge Valley
vice-president, Frank J. Dwyer of Bur-1 Near Krosstadt, Showing That They
Imgton; second vice-president, J-.. J. bea- Extendi no- Their Invasion
Pilbin is said to have turned and shot
down the stairway at Vigeant, the bul
let lodging in the wall
Vigeant ran out of the house and
around to the veranda and with a ladder
While he was
out of the house Pilbin left.
When the officers went to search for
Pilbin tbev looked everywhere at his
place, which is on what is known as
Hardwood Flats, a little locality in the
direction of the town of Worcester, ex
cept in the house. Not finding their man.
mens of Fair Haven; treasurer, R. W,
Barnard of Pittsford; secretary, Arthur Bucharest, Thursday, .via London, Fri
E. Hale of Bradford (re-elected), the day. Sept 1. Russian troops invading u. t . iui -Umk in fhrrmoh
secretary was inaxrucwa vo cBl one volB iransyivania have occupied the import- a window and unlock a door. Entering
in mm ia.r. ant maustriai center 01 i eiroscnv inn n j: j r;iui o.i.n v. rH,
CViarlnm A Awoma nf TTai-rfnnnlr onil !. -T- I... -. 1 ! I - i.J. i 1
rosier A. joung 01 vergennes were rr- the Humarua war office announcement.
ceived as members. It was decided to
lesve to the
The occupation of the Tarlunce val-
exeeutive committee the uv indicates that the Rumanians are
question of whether a delegate should be extending their invasion of the extreme
sent to ine national convention 10 iw eastern portion of Transylvania. Fetro
held at Columbus, O., the second Wednes- genv is the center of a rich coal field near
day in October. A vote of thanks to Dr. the southern frontier of Transylvania.
U Dalton, secretary ot the state ooara jugt north of the Vulcan pass through
ot neaitn, was unanimously passea iormle Alps.
II is aauress vi y euneeriwy evuuiii. xiib
.. . . .u. a a c HH4:H:Hr
i i.Hiiini,ieo imi hip iuui 01 "" '"B innif l rn t nnm mnrrn.
Pres. M. R. Rounds of Barre expressed Lil1iKiUAi0 1jU1 OVV,WV
agreement with his definition of the true
undertaker and commended the address.
J. A. Corbin of Burlington was chairman
of the committee. The committee ap
pointed to act on the wisdom of a corps
of embalmers to become part of the reg
ular army of the United States favored
the idea but preferred to investigate it
further before taking action. Arsene
Boucher of Burlington was chairman,
ON VERDUN FRONT
According to Competent Authorities in
Paris Total Number of UnwounUjd
Prisoners Taken on Verdun and
Somme Fronts Over 43,000.
tempted to explain the situation in a let- for jdy Gamage, who won in straight
in trVi mh ha aoiA that In t ha tamnH ! 1 .
WHIRLED ABOUT SHAFTING.
Paris, Sept. 1. Competent authorities
estimate that about 600,000 Germans
have been disabled in the Verdun region
jilrmi, sine Feh 21. the hctritininor nf tliii
Rutland Man Was Perhaps Fatally In- rwlt (jerman offensive there. The total
number of unwounded German prisoners
taken in the erdun sector and the
neighborhood of the Somme exceeds 43,
001.
UPSET LANTERN AND FLED
month of the war the Greek premier had
intimated to the entente powers that
Greece would join their cause actively if
the necessity should arise, and with the
commencement of the operations against
the Dardanelles the government believed
the time had come for Greece to abandon
her neutrality. The king, however, re
fused to countenance this plan. It. was
argued that sending forces to the Darda
nelles would dangerously weaken Greece's
defense on the Bulgarian frontier, and
since Greece had received no formal in
vitation from the triple entente ber en
trance into the war would be undertaken
without any guarantee from the powers
as to the Greek position on the main
la nd.
"The king's refusal to consent to the
war policy," said The Post correspond
ent, "was undoubtedly actuated in all
pord faith by a patriotic consideration of
the military difficulties. I'nfortunately,
his entourage is known to hold strong
ir-German sentiment. The principal of
ficers of the general staff are pupils of
the Berlin Kricgsakadenjie. and are firm
ly convinced that Germany must nl?i
jaa'.ely win this ar. This, and sot fear
2:24 TROT.
Purw, 3V).
Ru.'ell HilL b. jr., Jamison
Bras., Srxnerville, Mu. 4 6 t dr
WiUism Bintr. b. . David
Sterns. Plattsbursr. N. Y 5 S Z 1 t
Moxic C. b. m.. E. E. Jones.
Cnistoa. N. Y 3 4 4 4 dr
The Only On, e- a . Pottle St-
hm. Portland. W. 2 1 S 8 2
Phieky Chap. s. Edw. Lyona,
Hadl"y. Mass 1 2 1
tw-n wuken, th. r S t
1 imc
I 1
dr
:22H.
J:2H. 2:29Vi, 1:19. 2:24
2 :17 PACE.
Pur, tm.
Maoila. E. A. Sunderlin. Leb
anon. N. H. I J f 4 I
Princes Nellie, b. m . E. E.
Jones. Canistota. N Y 4 4 1 1 1
Pedro, b. ff-. Leater Dora, Ba
vertiUL llaaa 1 1 i j j
The Good. Frank Wirker. Ti-
mnaerotra. N. Y I t S I 4
Time il'i. t :lt, t:l?i. 1 :17. 2 :1V
2 :2 PACE.
E. A. SaiMSVrlin,
jured When Clothing Caught.
Rutland, Sept. 1. Dennis Hurley, aged
48 years and a widower, waa probably
fatally injured at the plant of the United
Marble companies here yesterday when
he received a fracture of the left arm, a
broken jaw and internal injuries while
at work. When he failed to blow the 7 Brattleboro Man Got Away Just Before
o'clock whistle to summon the men to the Explosion.
room, where he was working alone, and Brattleboro, Sept. l.-Jiist as the re
found him unconscious on the floor. It V?rt ,f "n Vonwm heard in towns
is supposed that his clothinir became Doul nr? an e ectnc poer in nrauie
..ir,!., in fh fcaflr, l.. I boTO went off for
a hir Ion irnnnri anrl t Vi r-- ,.iii evening.
the floor. He is at the Rutland hosnital T1" n" blowing up of the
and is having severe internal hemor- storehouse of the ( onnecticut River Pow
rhages. Mr. Hurley was formerly a Rut- " Co- nr "1' R""oIln'- powder and dyna
land railroad encineer. mi" n,tr the blf Pw'r PI,,nt Vernon.
his boots on
He was taken immediately to the
county jail at Hyde Park and will be
given a hearing at the office of State's
Attorney M. P. Maurice at Mornsvil!,?.
Another chapter in the affair occurred
last night at about eight o'clock when
Charles Pilbin met Wilson Vigesnt upon
the road. Pilbin is said to have berated
Vigeant and then attacked him.
MARRIED AT N0RTHFIELD.
Williamstown, Sept. 1. The . second
day of the Old Home week celebration
proved to be gilt-edged as to weather,
and likewise, judging by frequent ex
pression heard on every hand, in general
enjoyableness on the part of the large
number of people participating in the af
fair. The town gave itself up to the
spirit of the affair and celebrated with a
vim which was shared by the "old hom
ers" and visitors from surrounding towns
alike, and there were not a few.
The forenoon was occupied by a pro-
gram of athletic s'ports managed by
Glenn F. McAllister and Walter B. Si
mons, and these were followed with keen
interest from start to finish. Several
close finishes gave rest to the races, the
events attracting the most attention pos
sibly being the two-mile bicycle race and
the foot race for the same distance. In
the latter young Wayne Farnliam dis
tinguished himself, leading for most of
the distance in a field including athletes
six or eight years his senior and losing
first place to one of them by a narrow
margin.
Some 200 people partook of the excel
lent dinner served by the committee in
the grange hall dining room, and at 2
m. the crowd was on edge to witness
the baseball contest between the Cabot
team and the local Mohawks. The type
of baseball displayed was assorted; there
were errors aplenty, but also good plays,
with neither confined to one side. The
visitors pulled off some clever double
plsys and their pitcher, though hit fre
quently, did good work. McAllister for
the home team was inclined to be wild
and an Injury that knocked him out for
several minutes in the early part of the
game did not help matters. Better sup
port, however, would have cut down the
tally of the visitors considerably. The
gane ended 15 to 5 in Cabot's favor. Dr.
A. C. Cross umpired.
The band's second concert was given
from the bandstand in the evening and
In their best style. Aided by some
friends from Barre, it was the best thing
of the kind heard here for some time
snd was really fine. Conductor Cram has
been breaking in the young players and
last night's performance showed marked
improvement and indicates the possibili
ties of still better things. Following is the
program rendered: March. "Across the
Isthmus," Bver; march, "Colonel Eitch."
R. B. Hall: serenade, Iwilight Echoes,'
Miller; selection, "National Airs," Palm
er; march, "Polack Arabian, Kumore;
march, "Tenth Regiment," Harvey Hall.
The ball in the evening, which closed
the events of Old Home week, was a
very pleasant affair largely attended by
our townspeople and also by many from
nearby towns. Music was by Carrolls
orchestra of Barre, which was greatly
enjoyed both by dancers and a large com
pany of spectators which filled all the
seats in the gallery. Some of the old-
time dances were included in the order
and such was the inspiration of the time
and place and yusic that some were seen
on the floor that had not danced for 15
years or more. Light refreshments were
served about 11 p. m. and the dancing
was then continued till 1 o'clock. About
60 couples were present.
Tlie town is highly pleaeed over the
success" of it first attempt in this direc
tion and speaks of making Old Home
week a regular institution, with some
thing bigger and better next year. Cred-
t Is due to a long list of helpers and
specially to Mrs. Fred Poor, who acted
as chairman of the committee in charge,
Iso Miss Lena Seaver, secretary.
Outlook at WivMngton Was
ConsiMercdEayorable, as
Congress 'Sffatfed to Dis-
. f uss ai).6h Bill, Which
: .'js$ftisfcictory to Brother-
nooas
PRESIDENT GIVES
HIS COMMENDATION
Railway Heads Are Opposed
to the Measure and Are
Awaiting the Outcome of
the Legislation Which
Wilson Is Trying to Hurry
Through Both Houses
Harold M. Brush and Anna P. Davis
United at Home of Bride's Uncle.
Stowe, Sept. 1. Mr. and Mrs. A. C.
Morrill; accompanied by their sons, Ches
ter and Maurice, Mr. and Mrs. S. M.
Brush and George Brush motored on
Wednesday to Northfield, where they at
tended the wedding of Harold Mortimer
Brush, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Brush,
and brother of Mrs. Morrill, to Miss
Anna Palmer Davis of Northfield. The
wedding took place at the home of the
bride's uncle, Daniel Davis, at 8 o'clock
Wednesday evening. The best man was
Xye Smith of Montpelier, the bridesmaid
FINAL BATCH OF CITIZENS
Yesterday's List Brings Total Up to 86
in Three Days,
Citizenship papers were issued to a to
tal of 86 applicants during the three
davs' session of United States district.
court which ended yesterday afternoon
nd manv cases were continued at the
request of the applicant, who lias beeu
driven to other parts of the country by
lack of work in this vicinity. Twenty
three caees were considered favorably
esterday, five were dismissed and 20
ere continued, 16 by request.
Those admitted yesterday follows:
Jiovanni Aletti, Montpelier, Italy; Abra
ham Aaron, Montpelier, Russia; Antonio
Avk-oili. Bethel, Italy; Joseph Bean,
Plainfield, Canada; Michele Cacicio,
Montpelier; Domenico Camerucci, Mont-
TALK OF THE TOWN
was .Miss .Mabel Davis, Sister of the pnier, liai ; jiainamu v aoai-nit, nriun,
bride. Three of the bride's little nieces Italy; (iennaro Ciampi. Montpelier,
acted as ring bearer and flowers girls. Italy; George Davidson Kmslle, Mont-
The bride is the daughter of Mrs. Sa- pelier, Scotland; William Reid Emslie,
rah Davis of West Berlin. Since her i Harre. Scotland ; Antonio imona, Keth
graduation from the Mary Burdett col
lege, Boston, she has been stenographer
and bookkeeper in the office of her uncles,
the Davis brothers, in Xorthfield. Mr.
Brush, who was born in Stowe. attended
el, Italy; Domenico Marcotrigiano, Beth
el. Italy; Giuseppe Mauricllo, Bethel,
Italy; Giuseppe Mszrini. Montpelier,
Italy; Antonio Xieolino, Montpelier,
France: Xiels G. Xielson, Boston, Den-
Stowe high school for three years. whenj""rk: Oskar Olsen. Montpelier. Norway
he entered Xorwieh university, taking
the civil engineering course. He was
graduated in 1900. He has a position
with the Interstate commerce eommis-
William Rudd, East Montpelier. Eng
land; Peter Shepard. jr.. Montpelier. Can
ada; Angelo Stannco. Montpelier. Italv;
Philip Stekolchick, Montpelier, Russia;
sion, with headquarters at Kansas Citv. I .lames Stuart. Harre. Scotland: Eugenio
usena, ,nni pt-urr. itaiv; imam i.
Put.. IIW
Crwcefit Tndd, br. r
TKMdmn, N. Y 4
Laty Gamac. b. m.. pottie StaMaa.
Portland. Me. 1 1 1
Eck Wil'e. br.bL.T- Wet, War-
ramhunr. N. Y 2 1
Pm M-K inner, b'k. , Weeka Dwy
er. Frtrbbonr. Wees SSI
Dntt-ie Hal, b. as., br The Here, 4 4
Tun jar. 2 so.
An employe upset a lantern on the oil
soaked floor. He got fsr enough away
before the explosion to escape iniurv,
Windows were blown out of the nower-
A linen shower tendered to Miss Lena house but no one was injured and no
main or jenerson street last nigni ny other damage was done
i lie .Tiiwt-a L.iitian tvooeris ana wnnide
Mackie, at the home of Miss Roberts on WAS HEAVILY FINED
North Main street, was greatly enjnved
by about 1 lady friends, who assembled Brttol Man Had Short Trout in His Ps-
dresed as children from 10 to 12 years
of age. The party was in honor of the
approaching marriage of Miss Pitkin to Middlebury. SVpt. I. Burt RiTem of
Frank J. Shea of Chnrch street. The Bristol, arretted by tish and Game War- Susan
"SUFFS" PLAN CAMPAIGN.
Will Go Before Vermont Legislature This
Winter.
St. Albans, Sept. 1. The Vermont
Equal Suffrage association adjourned a
successful convention yesterday after
perfecting plans to make a campaign
in the Vermont legislature the coming
winter; for co-operating with the a-
Washington, D. C, Sept. 1. All out
ward indications of the progress of Pres
ident Wilson's legislative program t
prevent the railroad strike were favor
able when Congress resumed work to
day. The president went to the capitol
early to hurry things along.
The Senate interstate commerce com
mittee got to work early on its bill for
an eight-hour day and an investigating
committee assembled to report a spe
cial rule providing for a vote on the
Adamson bill not later than 4 o'clock
this afternoon.
The Adamson bill has been approved
by President Wilson, and the heads of
the railroad brotherhoods have said that
its passage by both Houses of Congress
would be considered a satisfactory set
tlement. The railroad heads, having
voiced a protest against the legislation.
did nothing to-day, awaiting the out
come. Warring unforeseen complication?.
it seemed assured that Congress would
act finally before Saturday night and in
time for the brotherhood heads to call
off the. strike set for Monday morning.
Although .. President Wilson etill de
sir strongly to see his whole legisla
tive program accepted, and Democratic
leaders in the Senate have ideas of their
own about what should be done, admin
istration spokesmen virtually tonceded
that the bill finally passed would provida
only for:
An eight-hour day for trainmen in
interstate commerce, effective December
1 or January I, with the present ten
hour rate of pay and pro rata over time;
and
A small commission appointed by tho
president to investigate the working ofr
the law from six to nine months and
report to Congress.
With a provision authorizing the in
terstate commerce commission to fix
schedules of wages pn railroads, the Sen-
ate interstate commerce committee fa
vorably reported the eight-hour bill.
A heated discussion followed the call
ing up of the Adamson bill in the House.
Representative Bennett, Republican, de
nounced the proposed legislation. "There
are worse things than strikes," said Ben
nett, "and one of those things is the de
struction of the American system of gov
ernment. I don't propose to cast my
vote with a pistol at my head."
Representative Cooper of Ohio, Repub
lican, denied that labor was holding up
Congress as Bennett charged. "It was
not the railroad men who asked for this
legislation," he said. 'The do say, how
ever, that if this House passes this bill
to-day and the Senate to-morrow they
would be able to call off the strike."
Garretson May Call Off Strike.
A. B. Garretson. spokesman for the
railroad brotherhoods, held a brief confer
ence with the president to-day, and the
president kept the cabinet waiting while
he talked with Garretson. White House
officials said that the leader called to
give the president some information; but
Garretson himself declined to say wheth
er he discussed calling off the strike.
There was every indication, however,
that the administration expected the
strike to be called off before Sunday
morning.
Republican Senators Propose Legislation.
Republican senators in conference to
day decided to draft legislation of their
own to offer as a substitute for that
proposed bv the Democrats to avert the
strike.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Smith. Barre, Scotland.
PINNED BENEATH AUTO.
Bat Morris Abbott Apparently Waa Not
Injured.
Manchester. Sept. 1. Morris Abbott of
this place escaped with minor hnii-e
when the steering gear gave way in an
automobile which he was driving veter-
tional oman t-unrage association in
securing the passage of the eo-cailed jday afternoon, the car turning turtle be-j the home of her sister. Mrs. James Go
Capt. W. T. Haigh and Mrs. Haigh of
Brattleboro are passing the week end
in Barre as the guests of Mr. and Mrs.
Alexsnder Duncan of Eastern avenue.
Mrs. W. E. Mitiguy, who has been
making a stay of several days at the
home of her mother, Mrs. Margaret
McCarthy of Brook street, has returnc-l
to her home in Enosburg Falls.
Charles L. Converse of Church street
began this morning a vacation of fif
teen davs from his duties as one of the
city letter carriers.
Ralph and Dean Davis of Allen street
left this morning for St. Paul, Minn.,
where they will enter Hamlin colleg
next week as freshmen.
Henry George, who has been visiting
relatives on Seminary street for the
past week, left this noon for his home
in Wodstok.
Mrs. H. H. Whitcrtmb and daughter.
Msrjorie, of South Royalton arrived in
the city last night, and are visiting at
B. Anthony amendment to the) fore he could stop it. Abbott w.i
evening was passed by the entire eom-(dens James H -!. and H. I). Murray, federal constitution. It was decided to pinned under the machine until help ar-
panv playing games. Miss Pitkin was charged with baring ia his poss aHn!put an organiser in the flejd and a pe. nve-1, but apparently was not erioi:'y
the recipient of many beautiful presents I some short trout. aa yesterday fiih-J jcial committee on finance was app-dnted j hurt. The machine bel"Pged to K. l
t ot Ki ll, vniCB lie tna'ie to make plans tor raising tunas to cover rtmwn ot 1 nuadeipnia, one 01 .Manca--
from ber friends. Late in the evening a'ilS and costs
lunJi ot ice cream and cake was served, arrestments tj pa.
extraordinary expcnee.
ter's summer re-idccU.
of Liberty street for a few days.
Henry Watt, who ha run a black
smith shop on South Main street for the
paet to years, has tnoel his tools and
fixtures to the oH Minard shop on Sura
Bier street, ia iJer to ft more roc si
