NEW MEXICO STATE RECORD
$1.50 A YEAR.
SANTA FE NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 1 1916.
NUMBER 101
SENATOR FALL
ANSWERS THE
LEWIS TALK
I am for Woodrow Wilson'" "Vo es
Jtoy para Wilson." Anyone who
I speaks of the Americanism is against
America. Any speaker who dares
to present to the American poplc the
facts of the Mexican question be
1 cause in presenting these facts nec
essarily those facts themselves con-
demn Woodrow Wilson, then that
MEIXCO'S SENATOR speaker is a traitor, in the eves of;
the Senator from Illinois and his j
class of statesmen and his mouth
should be closed. '
DEMOCRATS ALL AT
SEA ON CANDIDATES
NEW
SPEAKS IN USUAL FORCI
BLE AND FINISHED MAN
NER. FLAYS HON. J. HAM
to permit t itet into public press,
i.ir to attain circulation and publicity
(through discussion by the specta
tors. Mr. Marroii's proposition w.i
uumiortpri hv Mr I'axron an ex-
UNTIL MACHINE WORKS
velt County, Judge I'atton of Chav-
Finallyj The Expert Mechanicians Get to Work and is. Senator Harth and several ot li
lt Runs Beautifully; Deserving Democrats Sacri- jers and was finally voted upon and
ficed to Win Hand-Full of Progressives; Some icf.-ateJ.
oore opon iert unneaiea.
The Democratic convention which
MEXICO AFFAIRS
i Sir, I may say to the Senator, I
;can see more resemblance than une j assembled in this city on Weducs
between his Democratic Party and j day was a very unusual one in a cer
the party of Carranza, between the j tain particular The delegates were
fTU,Dua rvuivico owkcv of Mr. Carranza just issued refer
VIGOROUSLY AND WEAK- ring to the election wnich is called
ESS SHOWN. . LOSS OF u"' !l"w lia''P' woum "e tllu i,ei!U
AMERICAN LIVES REVEAL
of business. The nation
representatives rule were recom
mended. Secretary of State Anton
io Lucero was named as the per
manent chairman. The order of
Car-1 candidates and those who wanted brsincss was as follows: Nomination
nza. I to be nominated were evidently nan for presidential electros, Congress-
I have here on my desk a decree j grata persona and those whom the j man; corporation commissioner;
ing called for the convention took
, , ,'tip the nomination of three presi
al house of, . .
OPPOSITION
TO PRESIDENT
INCREASING
REASONS OF A LIFE-LONG
DEMOCRAT OF MICHIGAN
HOW NATURALIZED AM
ERICANS ARE REGARDED.
DDflllPUT Tfl I IPUT !ra(le' in k's I)olitica! views and the ; completely al( sea regarding their
DOUUUni IU LHjn I p olitical views announced
by
KD
tor from Illinois could
Wilson promulgate and enforce such
decrees. On the 2d of June in this
body I made a speech upon the M e.-
dclcgates would like to have put on
the ticket were very evidently
afraid of the cars, as the declina-
Woodrow tions came fast and constant from
one and another.
The one active and working can
didate for the governorship was Sen-
Senator A B. Fall responding to'" question, in which I detailed, ator Isaac Earth who milled around
speech made in the United States i ,ro'" wm-ana own mourn me Kinu "- .
laid:
Mr. President, I have just listen-d
The very receptive
Mexico: that he was the legislature.1 candidate was E. C. de ,Baca who
k- ;,tr t,;, n in;,,,.;. t government wnicn existca in i""- '
governor; lieutenant governor; sec
retary of state; treasurer; attorney
general; superintendent of public in
struction; land commissioner; audi
tor; supreme court justice; senator.
Chaves, of liernalillo. moved that
the governor be placed before the
corporation commissioner, which was
carried after various motions and
some argument. This was the re
sult of a complication arising on ao.
dential electors and for two hour
'carried on a session which was so
tmi'ine and extraordinary for con
fusion, disagreement and inefficiency.
John Hicks of Guadalupe county
(was the first nominee for presidcii
I tial electors. His nomination was
followed by that of James I'ptoii. o;
I. una county and T. H. Kixey, of Un
ion. At this point the chairman
requested the secretary to read a
telegram which informed the conveu
MCADOO MAKING
MANY EXPLANATIONS
the judicial, and the executive, the'wa-'! constantly telling the members j Coant of A. Lucero and E. C de Baca
j my stand against hint in the pre
len: campaign.
' Democratic View of Naturalized
Americana.
i
i Wonder what kind of a slap the
'Secretary of the Navy Joseph
Daniels was trying to give the Am
erican soldier of foreign birth or de
cent when he published the follow
ing imidious comparison in a recent
issue of his paper, the Ruliegh, North
i a roli n a ' News and Observer."
I "The Herald knows that when the
' S utlierncrs enlist in the volurteei
; i CL'ini nts or.,- does not h.r. e to be
acquainted with German. Russian,
Slav and Southern Kifoj e: i la"
jgnag" ill order to know h t ) -pel!
an I pronounce thei' name;."
Why this exultation over the fact
that there are few people of foreign
r ancetrv in the South ? Here
ir.tainf.r4 urfie ''sn 1 1 11 i itr t . ti I
t. j ,h. i:ci.,.; ci of the convention how very grate-l i.,mI. (..inir irom San MiL'iel1. ...
to the most remarkable political har-! "vu ",k ",v' , .. ,. , L: . . . . i be a national bank director."
- (by decree, and enforcing his decrees ,ul l"c "" ' "" ana tne selection oi mc one man
ogne which in my limited exper-j, , . ' t 'namf. anrf informing them tha, his lIL-ntu trtfrrffr with the in-
j uy guns, passing) upon uic'ii i'y fiuii, ..v. ---
martial. health was very good now and veryjterests of the other, both being can-
Now,' I may say for the informs.- much imProveA DurinK the Pre-jiuates for positons on the ticket.
Hon of the Senator, that telegram, 1 Hin&' l,ourS of the convention I Permanent Chairman Lucero was
ience t hav ever heard upon the'
"stump, and which certainly I had
never expected to hear in the leg
islative halls of the Congress of the
THE CONSISTENCY OF MR
BRAINRIDE COLBY. SEC
RETARY REDFIELD FAIR birth or ano -try in the S
EXAMPLE OF THE WILSON in the North we are proud of them
DEMOCRACY. j'1' ',avc fun'I thcin intelligent, en-
! terprising, honest and patrotic. We
Washington. Aucust W -Special have no more trouble spelling and
tion that United States officials and ! Corespondence ) It i very notice- pronouncing their names than tney
directors of national banks were in-able that thousands of Pemnrrats ; have in spelling and in pronouncing
ellitfible to serve as presidential el-j who intend to scratch Wilson and, ours. They pay their bills as well,
ectors, whereupon a delegate from: vote for Hughes this year ire not; in the average as native-born Am
Guadalupe County withdrew its ' taking that view because of person-' ericans. They send their children
name of John Hicks, who. he ey ial grievances hut became they real- to school regularly, observe the law
to i ire that Wilson has not made good ot tne country, and take part in lo
Mi jas President and that the welfare !cal community enterprises.
Paxton in a very'short but very n.n-of the country demands the suh'tti-i We meet them in our lodges and
ed address prpooscd that tlu coiu en-J tution of a man and a party that can churches, we labor beside them in
tion get down to practical politic adequately represent the real opin-. the fields and factories, we associate
and name a committeee oi three tolioni and aspirations of the country. ; with them in colleges, and we ex-
rr r,itt unH nrpmra a iloto ..... A .nr.no- the Dpmorrats wlin have nect to be buried among them in the
' f . .. . i loc nvn auuiaa aim iiik(.Li..Ka w . tlien UrOUgllt UCIUIC I lie vuiocunuii . .... ...... ' . j ,1. - ,,:..,.,c ,c Tf .IKh.. .
rtniforf .tto- -T cbntl nnt j t, : , wei e scui 10 raiiia s u-eaiieu gov ... lueniiai electors. lie sa'U li'i-. was i vigorously exprcrti men 1.1,10.0 . n pc"s l" ououu-
h :. a l"h " tt' T: eminent, calling attention to the!a" k",ls 0n "Teet. eor ianJ Dlade Peech th"kw the .C.n' neceary in order to distribute the1 Mr. Lewis E. Rowley, of Lansing, cing their name, requires some spec-
... . ... . . ., . . . (IL cvciv dvdliauie uieeiiUK untie, "i veiuion lor tne nonor. lie saiu 111c
.(,,11 f , . .n.nU criticism delivered here in thu body ,. , ' ,-"""
shall not attempt to make a speech excepting the thirst parlors where ' Democratic party was stronger than
. . . .. .I,:, which was, in return reflecting pre- . .. j 1
Mr. President, and in reply to this, . !the various caucuses were held aud!eVer before, but they had a fight on
i,i ,...i... 1,1 i, . sumably, or would so reflect uponi ... . ! ' ,
remarkable outburst would be to, " v ! where the delegates tried to moisten hand ; victory was not so certain;,
Signify it. But there are some pas-ithe administration now 1 npower in, enthusiasm which' ork must be done: -foolhardish-
seemed to be affected by a drought. ! ness" mig
.aes in it which I desire to eninha-! ,n, eo"y. the "
iize in the record and to which I made as 1 am infmed that elec-
tions be called in Mexico. They
jkajl refer for that purpose and that
purpose only
We have been told not only by
tfce enator, Senator Lewis of Illin
ois, through his notice given here
but also thron ghfh7 newspapers of
the country that the Senator from
IHinois intended to deliver a speerh
in which he proposed to reply to the
address, particularly with reference
to foreign affairs. We have been
told even through the press that the
Democratic campaign committee
wonld use hundreds of thousands "of
Naples of this speech in the present
campaign
t Tt 'I.... J . - .1.
-r. rrcM,..:.u, unuerstanuoig ,ne anyone to resist the Outrages of
issue, which the Senator does not Carranza., bandits those who have
even refer to, as I think I do, and hidden away ear of corn fof ,he
" I tWnk 't wi" be presented-to the nlirno f fHin., their ,tarvi.,-r
were called; and I have here the
decree; and the qualifications of
electors and the qualifications of of
fice seekers as fixed by Mr. Carrin
za's decree at the elections to he
held in the month of September are,
that neither the electors nor the of
fice seekers should have given eith
er armed or tacit assistance to any
one else than Mr. Carranza. The
Villistas, the 20.000 Zapatistas arm
ed and controlling1 four States in
five states in Mexico, the millions of
Mexico, the Felicistas controlling
people through out the Republic who
1 to order and the temporary officers
named. The chairman who was to
keynote was Governor McDonald.
The speech he made was one of ex
planation and defense. He told of
j the wonders of the national Demo
cratic administration, but he did not
who maintained
candidates properly among the dit-: Michigan, whose leter giving his ial effort, it has no other effect than
fercnt nationality, and to !if. rent ! reasons for voting for Hughes was making us beter acquainted. It
parts of the state. ; placed in the Congressional 7?-nrd certainly does not cause us to re-
Mr. Paxton's remarks were nut by I a w "a-vs acn n-v Representative gret their presence in the volunteer
, 1 f . T .1 P ...Hi a" uproarious volley of "noes1 and I W. Fordney. ot tne same srare. , regiments 01 tne nation o: wnicn we
ght be fatal; the Kepubli-, , . . . pl.,.' Vt.er reads are citizen, hv birth And thev hv
iv. .n.. ...: . n.u a lew nisscs anu was ansierni nv 1.1 " ' - ' '
1 , imr. iiarin,
sucessluliv ana tneir lanurc au
made them wild; they were prom
ising everything, including woman'
suffrage, but this meant nothing and
was only u . motion, nominations for presidential land, who combined a high idealism on state expenditures and revenues.
. I.. ll... tllllll tllllip .MUM' '
IO IIliiKC INC WUiiitit mini. 11117
. . , 1. 1 clectfirs were procfedod with and the
1 limn more than we do. men have ai-i 1
tell anything about its monumental .' ways embraced the women " The j fol,nwl"K a,l,,oH : 11 A ot S"'
failures. spc;lkcr di(1 llot say, thouh ,lis re.;corro county. Eugenio Romero, Mora:
He explained all about the La.m8rk miiht be construed, that the' J' M- a,;"' of ''Uadaltipe, J. S. Kel
Cruces bank failure and said lie did ; only tlling the Democrats intended of Torrance, Mr. Putnev, of Per
mit know anvthine about its Condi-1 .: ... in,i.r,r.. ' alilio ; Vincente Mayes,, of Mora;
that as follows; : choice.
: there was no nationality ecep-. ,u- "I supported Woodrow Wilson in -State finances Disclosed by Gov-
ericaus in the convention. 1912 in the full conviction that he eminent Report" is the glaring head-
After this spasm of oratorv and would make a great and worthy line over an article from Washing
confusion and the defeat of Paxtons Democrat succesor of Grovcr Cleve- ton, telling of a government report
tion until the doors were closed, butthe worm." as their president has;Fc,ir Garcia, of Rio rnbv ; .1. D
he did not explain why it was that, steadily refUsed to commit himself j -"avcs. ot Valencia i-.ui.cmo koiu
this itrnorance existed when he had
I
on the proposition, white Hughes
with a powerful practical judgment. Now if the administration would get
"I am opposing Woodrow Wilson out an accurate report on the nation
it! this campaign in the eqtialy firm al finances and make it public before
conviction that he has neither the election, we would be greatly obligh
the "saving common sense" of the ed. Such a report, if accurate,
man whose administration shed such Would be a splendid campaign docu
luster on the Democratic name. ment.
"I supported Woodrow Wilson in What do you think of this? Pear!
ero, of Mora county wa- withdrawn , 1012 because he stood for -open and buttons are manufactured in Iowa
Illinois. Misouri. Kentucky, and
i kanL- Avntrn'npr fr. loan bim nnctpd I . . . r- t . . . . . hv his Helrcntes because he was so , disentangled process ot govern-
have acquiesed in any attempt or and if it was llot done both thc eXam-' , ,,. .; m the neonle "nnfortunate now ps to be postn.as- ment." for "pitiless publicity," and few other states from shells taken
iner and the governor were recreant ' jer" J. M. Casias hecat.se he was ,s.ijfr the restoration of the "authority from the river beds. The industry
in their duty, the former in that he' Th6 cormmttee on credentials re- j fnrtnnat(, to w a ,,.1lk director", of our legislative bodies" which he began after the Rcpiildicans impos
did not make the report as he should' PrU'd " COI,,ests and the ro11 wasand Vicente Mares of Mora county' declared was necessary to the "re-'ed an import duty which gave the
auopieu. ine rcso.uwuii . , . . .. r.rv nf ,i,r:r scU.nnsseston and American producer a small margin
W i At this Doint with seven names he-' self-respect." and in order that "the of advantage over the foreigner.
anil the latter in making the appoint
ment of an incapable official. The
people in th.s campaign, I will say!chjldren disfranchised( and on)v
frankly to him first, that if I were ! Carrailzistas shalI vote.
fMAttftirtn ffi. iftin'imn (it U r i
Hughes and I could not obtain cop- "B T ' " i ' . " . mantle of char,,y over ,ne snoum-
ie, of the Senator', speech from him JC aPPm" the off'ce" of election er, of the nominees of the Republi
orfrom the Phblic Printer I wouldl Pres",b" the qucation, ;of , can party, realizing, plerlaps that
expend every cent in the publicity! te"- he. overtturns the constitution , the aforesaid mantIe might be plac.
fad of the Republican Party for dis-!f the Um,n' SetS e 'T' ' ed Up0" hiS W" Sh0"WcrS " dd
.eminating the speech throughout T " ' f? 0,,ihM "ot get rid of it first. After the
mc uiu.mi in iiacu uy mc uun-, conclusion of tne speecn wnicn
stitution. he ignores the State laws ; seemed mme ie a explanatory
was ready to report and
and State lines, he appoints munici- message to the legislature than like
governor told how he would cast thej eiven more time- An invitation was i f()rc thp C(,llvciui,in 4r .,,. of people may again depend, and de- The Democratic Congress reduced
then read trom tne progressives tsan Miguel county, nuned that theipend with confidence, upon their the duties and German button mak
meet with the convention which was convention sf)ect t,f t lreo one at legislators, and not lean as if formers began shipping American shells
to assemble in the supreme courtja tinic -j-jlis Illotjot, W1S s imprac-i resche upon their Executive." .'across the ocean, making them into
room and hear Ralph C. Ely relieve l(jca ,m,er the circumstances, that! "I am oposing Woodrow Wilson buttons and sending them back here
himself of a keynote speech w hich ,hr convction went into greater ; in this campaign because as Presi- to be sold in competition with the
he was to make as the temporary, ronfus;on ad madK a uproar of dent he has done more to disconr- American product. And yet the
chairman of the Progressive junta, j jscllssjon among delegates in all . ago "open and disentangled process- Democrats pretend to be for "Ame
A motion was made by Bickley, of ,,., of the ba) yr Marron mov-'rs of government." to stifle public!- erica First."
Raton, that the house of rcprsen- ei ,bat Felix Garcia, J. D. Chaves ty. to belittle legislative bodies, and since the war began, foreign na
tatives be tendered to the Progress-, aild janl,, Upton be choeu as the'to teach the people to "lean as if tir,n- have contracted debts in this
rte United States, and without an
answer to it, letting it go except as
. . T. . . .. ,.;Pa' election officers, he names the , a keynote speech, the convention ap-
ucoi ui iiic viiiieu tidies iniiieii ... , I ...... . : ..... ... I r- t . e n .. . .
and b h's se etar of Stat With imunlcl,a e,cction candidates, he, pointed the usual' committees andjives. for the delivery of the orat'on , tluee presidential electors. This nm- for rescue upon their Executive than country to the anvunt oi ?1."00,000.-
ot an answer as I hav sa'd e c t pre5Cr'',e' the qualification of voters adjourned until Thursday morning, j which Ely probably had on his rhetjti,,n was so manifestly discourteous; any other president since Andrew mm ,, addition, American invest
So take"" o. fth SapreC Met 'iat ey s'la" 'e Carranzistas.) I In the time of the recess the cease-1 since the Republican' convention, a, unfair to the other four men who Jarkson. whose arbitrary conduct,,,, ,,,Vl. bought back American se-
nd the other officials of th!s Gov ' If Wi',on c0"''1 enfoce a de-'less milling went on. Numerous J when he was invited to bottle it tip;had been named and had equal priv-,to quote from that distinguished c-1 1 1 i t i c formerly held abroad, to the
ernment and' of Garranza himself Cree at tllis election t0 Provide that names were talked of for the gov-'for future delivery at some otheriCK.s bef0re the convention that work. Woodrow Wilson's History of ,, , ;,,m JJ.mXi.nOO.OOO. That
Without an answer Is I would"0"'" f"owcrs of Woodrow Wilson ernorship, including Dr. Shuler, D.jtime and place. All the oratory in his motion was met by another up-; the American people-"broke the .,-,l(.s a change of about SX.W.tVK) -
u an answer, sav' w u i should vote, how grateful would he B. K. ellers, iguel A. Otero, and aiposscssion of the Progressives wasjr(iar ,,f "no's" and on motion of half! course of all settled policy, forced oo j.. o-.r stttn as a nation in the
trust to this speech alone if I was .r, .c '...r r .. .i.' , . . . . . , i
, . . . , .. , !lhe statesman from Illinois. ' boom was started for Judge Hanna expended by Hronson cutting. tne,a dozen delegates rising simultan- everv question to square itseii with World oi inane.-. I'iguring on a
achieve those results and elect Mr. I
Hngfces as the President. j
The Senator belongs to that recent
Mr. 'President, I am now taking and a committeewaited upon hi:n hoy chairman and Col. licorge w , cotisly it was tabled indefinitely. the President's standards, altered s of 5 per cent, this .means a
more time than I had expected to to see if he would consent to enter j Prichard at the little party last , A ballot was then taken with the the elements of parties" b cause, in change of annual income to the a
take. The Senator says there is no the race. He declined to be consid-! spring when delegates were sent to; understanding that the thnVc who,a word, by bis sccretiveuess, his n--1 ,,,,, t of J175,oiK),fwi The war shut
school of statesmen in this country
that it is merely "Mexico." ered. Never in the history of Con-; Chicago, to vote "first, last and all, received the most votes should be(ademic arrogance and hi studi.d f, American tourist cvpenditures
iTIie Senator knows in bis heart una ventions has thero been seen such the time for I heoriore Koosevelt, ! presidential electors nrovidcd siicli 1 rarailrmnt for Conaress he has wi l-'i,. F.urone -o the amount of $.Vs0jKY).-
devetoped during, the last three year;the Th; Sena,or .$ a ;en. uncertainty as to the candidate forjso they had to get a sorehead from votes were a majority. The ballot fully and persistently belied his o n n,t , ,.r jear. Tt is charged an ad-
dereloped since the minority party aJor of he United s,ateSi and he ! governor and such diversity of opin- another source. j replied in selecting Felix Garcia, J. nft-repatd and farinatingly phn-ed Verc monthly tra.le balance into a
, a p ''knows that one of the issues which and such apparent fear on the part1 At 2:00 p. m. Mr. Ely keynotcd in D. Chaves and James Upton, show- pronouncements on these mate
who are teaching the doctrine that'..,, . , . , , .. . , ,. ..... .!, ,!.:li (i,! .ctvle h.-mriliiiT .1.-. .i, r.
I win uc prescuicu to nic people and ui mc iiiemucia ui me Fdl 1j lyJ - j " J '"s ."iiiiu.-i.v.; ma. i.i v.mi.liiiiwii supreme i t-in .v i . . . ...
patriotism means servility and snb
terviency to your party leader. Ex
actly, in more respects than one have
the Democracy of this country or
their leaders placed themselves up-1
upon which they will pass will cept the doubtful honor of a Demo- language with that felicity and fa- had no objection to these men but
an issue which was made when thelcratic nomination with sure defeat cility for which he is noted.
f favorable tr.de ba'ance of S.'.iW.W
. 0 Ml for the last fiscal year. Yet th
"I shpported Woodrow Wilson i i Democratic press cannot see that the
strongly resented the manner in 1012 because I firmly he';cved thit War is the cauc of our present pros-
Thc speech which he delivered has which Mr. Marron had undertaken ,c would be counted ur"i to carry perity
on an equality with those who are
ow ruling in Mexico.
government was born, an issue lying ahead.
at the very foundation of govern-! At nine o'clock Thursday morningi been printed so often in the co.umns ; to put them over a few minutes prev- on with a measureable degrt
ment itself.
the delegates assembled, but the of every paper which would print itJiously as they had also resented his faithfulness to the pledges ronta:iici
Secretary MeAdon refuses to dis
cuss the dismissal of Appraiser Clapp
Mav I ask the Senator what his slate had not been determined upon and from various platforms both in, motion to exclude ladies and mem- in the Dmorrat:c plaffot-rr of tbat from the New York custom house
idea is of the duty of government ' an dthc conference continued in thc-'.vceum and school graduation exer- brs of the press from the comen-i ( ar pledges which he himself in order to make a place for the son
Do you hear the word "patriotism" tn ; cjtizens? You wil Ibe com-j different rooms in the city, no one ciscs in the state that it is unnec-ition. 'vanntingly declared "ay wh.v they of "P.ait. ry Dan" Finn. Hughes is
fc Mexico? In what term is it '-as- ,.,iod to answer some questions, sir. seeming to know what it was best essary to say anything about its sub-l The convention rjreessed at 0:2il,nu n ami mean what thev s:v " "merely petifogcing" exclaims the
d "Yo soy Carranzista" I awr y,,., w;m comnelled to declare! to do The delegates buzzed around stance. until 8:00 o'clock p. m. after one of' "t am opposin? Wood-ov Wilson Secretary rather petulantly. This
Carranzista; "Yu soy Villista" I am 5 )ljr pOS;t;on. The people of the or sat in their seats watchfu'ly1 At the conclusion of Mr. Ely's, the most confused and disorderly ;,, this eamnaien because he h:-- re- airy manner of dismissing matters of
a Villista: "Yo soy Zapatista" I am t'nite(J States wilt Want to know, waiting. One de'egate called outspecch the convention reassembled j sessions ever held by a convention pe-tedly and defiantly flo.itel and grave import is charrtet i'tic of Mr.
Zapatista what this Government was formed "Start the game," and the responseand one of the first matters present-. in New Mexico. j repudiated some of the nio-t imp McAdoo. Some months ago when
The old boast for the last 35 years, for. Why does the citizen or indiv-Came back, '"No umpire." It was ed was a very remarkable motion byi Eetwcen 6:20 and 8:00 o'clock when. nt nf these pledges, thtf. pph'"ie? Former Senator P.onrnr charged that
in Mexico upon public ocasions madejual surrender his inherent right to'very evident that one was needed., State Treasurer, O. N. Marron. to,the convention reassembled the veil-' with both his party and c .imtrv m there was no real "net available al
fcy their orators was not "Long live self-protection to society of whichtlhio kind of uneasiness and d;:ay exclude members of the press and ed hand of steel secured a grip on , double sense, hrcathing tec w.vii ance" in the Treasury and proceeH-
went on till 11.05 when Gov. McDon-: ladies from the hall and go into ex-jthe convention, which was as re- r.t promise to the ear and br'aVin- ed to prove it by the certified state-
markablc for its absolute control of it to the heart. ment of the accountant who devisea
the convention as it had been re-; "I have hricflv set forth in the fore I the original form of Treasury State-
Mexico, my country," but "Yo soy , he becomes a part, if not in consid-
fcijo de Porfiro Diaz" I am a son of
Porfirio Dial.
This class of statesmen who con
aftnte the leaders of the Democracy
of this country would assure their
follower that the campaign cry is
ot 1 am an Aemican," but that I
eration of a reciprocal promise that
if he will support this Government,
coming to its assistance as the Serbs
and Greeks and Roumanians and. the
Bhrgarians and the French and the
Germans have gone to the assistance
(Continued on Page Five)
aid entered the chamber and called ;ecutive session to agree upon a tick-
the convention to order, saying he.et.
was to blame for the delay, but i-rt
telling why.
The first order of business was the
report of the committee on rules.
Mr. Marron stated that in get
ting down to practical politics in the
"family gathering," which he propos
ed, some very harsh things might
permanent organization and order j be said which it would not be well
markable for confusion in the after
noon. Immediately upon reconvening Mr.
Hewitt, of Lincoln county, Vosom. T have 'afed only a few of the res
(Continued on Page Five) (sons which have impelled me to t?Ve
eing some of the principal rtason mint which Mr. McAdoo introduced,
why four j-cars ago I gave my voice McAdoo waved his band and said:
and vote for Woodrow Wilson, but: "The charge is too ridicoulous' to
discuss." But matters of this sort
(Continued on Page Five)
