I
Tarrtlort l Ihrary
Capital Building
Published in the Mo
rend - Clifton District.
Population - 15,000
The Oldest Copper Pro
during District in the
State of Arizona.
AND HORENCI LEADER
VOLUME XVIII.
CLIFTON ARIZONA, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER i, 1916.
NUMBER 15
GOFFER
HE
DISTRICT FORESTER
WILL CO-OPERATE WITH
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
' w J . . . ' I
t. ,r- ;
DUTTON ANU REDD
III I II II II I II li II
ntiunn rnuir
E :
ELATED
al RunuEFinu
. j,j ! Greenlee county on September 25th to
Splendid Spirit of Co-Operatlon Shown , v;ew the proposed projects. In addi
by Board of Suprvisors in the Con-. tIon, Mr, Rddington promised us that
truction of Forest Highway Pro-j ho would make a personal visit t0
jecta Insure that Cllf.ton-Sprlna.er. . Greenlee county not later than Octo
ville Highway Will Be Included In-i.ber 15th.' " . -First
Recommendations. '-!' v. i. .
.1 The building of these highways by
- ! a co-operative plan entered into by
Assistant District Forester Powell To ' the -Board of Supervisors of this coun
, Be Here This Month. Dirict For: ty and the Forestry Department ot the
! ester Reddington Also Coming- United States means hundreds of
Application from this County Must thousands of dollars to the people of
Be In Albuquerque Office Not Later this county. In addition to opening
than October 1. up the vast forest : resources, the
towns of Greenlee county will be
That the Clifton-Springerville Forest. V'-aced on a new road and south and
Highway will be the very first road' east and west inter-state highways
building projects undertaken under and n addition will afford our people
the Good Roads Bill recently passed; -easy access to one of the most do-,
by Congress Is the good news brought:' 'ightful spots in the United States
back from Albuquerque by Supervisor tor their summer outings.
W. W. Dutton and County Hngineer "During my tenure of office I' know
S. C. Redd, who returned from a con- -
ference at Albuquerque with District
Forester Paul Reddington on Wednes-
day evening.
rue conierence was arrangea tnrougn
the efforts of the officers of the Green-
lee County Chamber of Commerce and
the Board of Supervisors and late on
- 'Saturday afternoon last 11 a telegram
was received bv Chairman W. T. Witt
from the Forestry office at'Albuquer-
-aie maki-Jr tlid appointment.
The expenses of Supervisor Dutton
and County Engineer Redd were de-
fravurl hv tho arenleo Pnnntv rham.
ber of Commerce and the Board of
Supervisors, each member . of the
Board contributing, personally,1 and
the good results obtained were even
more than expected.
For more than a year past the Board
of Supervisors of thisounty, assist-
j i. 1 . ri
cu i iv tue . ...;Ljr usiuuer
of Commerce, have been active in Etates the million dollars which is ex
presenting the claims of this county pendable this fiscal year,
to the Forestry Department for a Tne tentative allotments to the prin
Mghway between Clifton and Sprin- ciDal national forest states are as fol
gerville end Clifton and Mosollon and '"ws: Alaska, $46,280; Arizona, $59,
the Era is pleased to announce at this ,9o: Arkansas, $11,294; California,
tne lira is pieasea to announce at tms
tim tht iv,.,,. 0 , h.,.i,a
fruit
Al! members of the Board, and es
pecially Mr. Dutton and County En
gineer Redd, have taken a lively in
terest in these projects which means
so much to the prosperity of every
citizen and taxpayer in the county,
and after the funds had been raised
It was to be expected that Mr. Dutton
. a t - i , .
was the unanimous choice to renrs.
uent the Board of Supervisors before
the Forestry Department.
Messrs. Redd and Dutton, carrying
Credentials from the Greenlee Coun-
ty Chamber of Commerce and the
Board of Supervisors, left Clifton on
Sundav moraine and at nine o'clock '
on Aionaay morning were in session
.with Mr. Reddington, the District
Forester of the Southwest, at Albu-
fluenue. The Greenlee County
Representatives spent two hours
with Mr. Reddington and his First
Assistant, Mr. Powell, and the Green-
lee County, propositions, both as to
the Clifton-Springerville highway and
the Mogollon Highway, were gone Into
thoroughly. In this connection Mr.
Dutton states, that a few days before
his arrival in Albuquerque Mr. S. J.
Kidder, General Manager of the Mo-
gollon Mines Company, and who was
recently in Clifton, had been a caller
on the District Forester, urging an ap-
propriation by the Forestry Depart-
ment for the Clifton Mogollon road.
Speaking of his trip to Albuquerque
on Thursday Supervisor Dutton said:
.Engineer Head and myself reel that units tor apportionment. Apportion
as a1 result of the representations ments now to be made are for the cur
made to the District Forester along rent fiscal year only.- Thereafter
the line of co-operation by . Greenlee new apportionments will be made,
County in the construction of the giving consideration to the number
Clifton-Springerville and Clifton Mo- and character of applications made
gollon highways that both of these by the state and county officials for
projects will be included in the expenditures on specific projects,
recommendations to be made by the , These applications must be filed with
District Forester to the Department the district foresters in the seven na
of Agriculture. tional forest districts on or before
"We were in conference with the ( January 1 each year, for the fiscal
Forestry officials for two hours; went year beginning the following July 1.
over maps and data bearing on the The determination of the projects
sulr;ect and nt the conclucioi of the , upon which funds will be expended
meeting we were gratified to h've
the D.'strict Forester tell us that the
cooperative plan presented by the Su-
peri isors of Greenlee county was by
far the best proposition he had so
far received.
V L 1 1 1L L .1,1 . 1,V.UUI11,UU !! 1
thnrnue-hlv fnmlHnr with fill nf tha
details bearing upon the subiect and; would aid in the development of re
wien on behalf of the Board of Su-i sources upon which communiles with-
rv nrH hsh irH, rum , r i , , .rt'tMi inn
- . . n i. ..." , i . i
the highways at an approximate
st of $180,000, he said that such a!
lenaid spirit or co-operation would
the depart-
f "The next 'step necessary will he
to file a formal and legal application .
by Greenlee County for an allotment:
ot a-portion or tbe first annual ap
propriation made to the Forestry De
partment by .the Good . Roads' Bill.
Ihis application must be in the hands
of the District Forester not later
than October 1. The Board of Su
pervisors is now gathering data, sta
tistics and estimates to be included in
this application, and it will be ready
to he. submitted to First Assistant
Fowell who has 'promised to come to
'ct - no more Important business that;
come before the Board of Super-i
. - . - sors.
Engineer Redd was qually as en-
sjuitoiyibui uuuuu. , we.
have got the best of it by a long I
s't." is the way he expressed it. j
Botn Dutton and Redd were about!
town yesterday explaining in detail j
H - e Plan to he worked out with the i
Forestry department, the success of
v.nicu means so mucn to' ureenlee
county and were the recipients of
Vi?ratr;M's for the good work
" - '' accomplished.
Secretary Houston has just announc-
ed the D,an to be Pursued in spending
the ten million dollars appropriated
Dy the federal aid road act for the
construction and maintenance of roads
ni tralls within or partly within na-
tional forests, and has tentatively allot
' P(1 ftmnnc T h6 vn rinnq national rnroat
m-do, amumia,
$140,763: Colorado. $62,335: Idaho,
ama nin: M(n ob ani . ' ta'
5108,010; Montana, $89,901; Nevada,
519.195- New Mexico, $42,622; Oregon,
S127.794; South Dakota. $8,115: Utah
. - . ' ' .
'ne $40 566 i wyo.u-
"Si seneral " said Secretarv ,Honq.
tl J ' 5 becrefary 'f?,01?8
ten. the states and counties will be
.-.-quiiBu iu miuisu co-uperauoii iu uu
amount at least equal to fifty per cent
rr rno aoHm q tail nnat rtf V , r.n .r-.T-..
t tne estimated cost or the surveys
aud construction. However, upon a
satisfactory showing by the applicant
8tate or county that such proportion
of cooperation fixed upon a basis
equitable to both the state or county
aud tne United States."
The method followed in apportion-
c, csiiuuura v3 OB4;-.
have great weight with
ment.. .
retary Houston as follows: Ten per,murder and blood8hed at will.
cent f the amount available each Duri fte meeting an officer attempt
ar wiU be withheld as a contingent ed tQ arregt one Qf the speakerg but
'md. One-half .of the remainder will wa3 unceremoniouSly ejected and
be allotted to the states in amounts warned that an officer who attempt-
y., T n e area oi na-jed
"" i"". suffer the consequences: Evidence
other half will be apportioned on a;was however secured again8t the lead-
basls of estimated value c, timber and , in spirits and six of them were ater
forae resources which the forests ; arrested foUr of whom were releas-
contain Amounts apportioned butjed Azora the Los. Angelse agita-
unexpended within three years and . tor and Benito Medina a resident of
any balance of the contingent fund ! Morencif and one of the foremost
which remains unapportioned at the ; leaders were brought to Clifton and
end of ?acn year will be reapportion- Confined in tbe county jail. They
ed on the same basis as the original . ,ater had their hearing and were
allotments. i bound over to the superior court in
The two groups of states to which , the sumo of $5000 each. Bail had not
iump sums are allotted are it was ex-,been furnished at this time and it is
plained, to be considered as single. more than probable that the men will
during the current fiscal year will be
made on the basis of applications
which must be filed with the district
foresters on or before October 1st,
1916. Each application must contain
ja statement of the public needs to
-J , T V.. V. J f - - ,'1 l-JIK,l . Will. ClUU
thft mannop nnrl p-rtpnt tn whinh It
it. , , , nil im Hnr , , iiim , , : i , , r i ; , rnmRrs
.. j . 1 . i . ,
the general location of the proposed
road and its estimated cost. As al-
reaay stated, in general states and
HIS
counties must be prepared to furnish
co-opration equal to at least fifty per
cent of tho estimated cost of surveys
and construction. This co-operation
may be in the form of money, labor
and materials, or the construction of
roads. Where other factors are equal
the approval of a project may be de
termined upon the relative amount of
co-operation offered. Many applica
tions have, it is stated, already been
received for expenditures upon speci
fic projects.
W. I IS
Outside Agitators 'Stir Up Foreign
-Laborers to Fighting Point. I Jail
Delivery Averted. Leaders Arrest
ed. .
Morenci has been stirred this week
1)V hostile demonstrations of large
numfoers of foreign laborers who have
been spurred to acts of near violence
b apitators of the I W W The
nI f j d f m trouble fomenters
...
Is A. Azora of Los Angeles, and edi
tor of El Rebeldo, a Spanish labor pa
per. Trouble has been brewing for some
time in our neighboring town and on
Sunday and Monday of this week large
eatherines of men who had become-
f am.erinss oi men who liaa pecome
mscipies oi ine l. w. . aocmne,
withVe T pU ;on--e-
P!6:! l.e pSE??l2..-J le7l
- 1 .1 -.1-. a 3 1 J
Ill" I MM IIIIIII li lllltf. IIHPI i M I i i ! '
flamat0ry and anarchistic nature wsre
made and at timeS the temPer of the
crowd was nearly beyond control. It
js understood that in the talks of the
the tnll1 th that
thev were above the law; that the
peace officers, law and order were to
be overlooked entirely and if it be
came necessary they could easily take
possession of the camp by tearing up
the railroad tracks and completely
shutting off the place from the out
side. After this was done they could
rob, pillage and plunder to their
heart's content and resort to wanton
to interfere with the meeting would
spend the time intervening in
the
county bastile. )
John L. Donnelly, vice-president of
the Arizona State Federation, was
called to Morenci during the trouble
of Monday and used his best efforts
in restraining the men and urging
them to listen to reason. In the course
of his remarks he reminded the crowd
of the treatment accorded them at
the hands of the Western Federation
at the beginning of he late strike in
the district and pointed out to them
that they would only be jumping from
he frying pan into the fire by affiliat
ing with the I. W. W. which was so
much worse that there was no corn-
Iianouu. lie wo-mcii worn luai uj
Hi
joining this hand of anarchists that
they would lose the sympathy of the
public as well as meeting with dis
aster in the future.
As a result of these demonstra
tions the people of Morenci have been
in a fever of suspense, not knowing
what was going to happen to them at
any minute at the hands of the rabble
which compose followers of the I. W.
W. agitators. It is thought that the
arrest of ring leaders in the affair
GAINING
OR G
NEW ISSUE.
From New York Werh
will have a Salutary effect on the mob
and that the activities of the exhort
ers will be curtailed if not effectually
stopped.
Various speakers, who are harbor
ing the belief of a sudden exit to the
"happy' hunting grounds" for mana
gers of copper companies, discoursed
long and loud on the right of labor
to use the methods of the knife, the
gun and powder to gain their desired
ends. Namely, the money in the
banks, the provision in the stores and
last but riot least, the machinery in
the mines and the possession of the
mines.
Deputy Sheriff pNeal was forewarn
ed of the dangerous nature of some
of these apostles of the knife and
gun, walked -into the crowd of 600 or
more and attempted to arrest Aurelio
V. Azora and Benigno Medina. He
got Medina, but a mob of a hundred
or more quickly surrounded O'Neal
and rescued tlY Red. At once mem
bers of the Arizona State Federation
of Labor"., and friends of the Deputy
gathered g round him and practically
saved bis Jife, as a Red had sided up
to O'Neal to give him the knife in the
back. Tuesday, accompanied by an
other deputy, George Hill, they arrest
ed Aurelio V. Azora and B. Medina.
These two men were arraigned be
fore Judge Lally at Morenci and were
bound over to the fall term of the Su
perior court under $5,000 dollar bonds:
MEMORANDUM.
Embargo Effective At Once.
R. K. Minson, General Teight and
Passenger Agent of the Arizona and
New Mexico Railway, gave notice on
. -
T.lursday that, on account ot the
- , ctlr nfth. trainmen and
ellgine men on other RneS' .hlS CT
pnnv will not accept any shipments
.. . . . - - i j.
ot live stocK or perisnaDie ireigm
destined to points on connecting lines,
except Morenci Southern, that cannot
reach its ultimate destination by
regular freight train schedule by
7 a. m. September 4th; non-perish
able freight destined to points on
connecting lines will, however, be
accepted subject to ' indefinite delay.
Mr. Minson also instructed all
ticket agents on Thursday to notify
passengers desiring to purchase
through tickets to points on connect
ing lines, except the Morenci South
ern, that unless they could reacn tneir
destination by Sunday night, Septem
ber 3rd, and not later than 7 a. m.
September 4th, due to the threaten
ed strike, they would De subject to
inconvenience and possibly perplex
ing delay.
A QUESTION, GOV. HUNT
Did you not say in Phoenix while
making a speech that if the people
of Arizona wanted and voted for
capital punishment that you would
enforce the law?
Who Lost the Leg?
A gruesome discovery was made
by pedestrians Saturday morning at
the point of rocks near the car barn
and the sight that met the gaze of
the passerby was a leg from a hu
man body which was partly submerg
ed in a pool of muddy water aOthls
point. A great deal of conjecture as
to whom the limb had formerly been
attached was rife by those who saw
It. The leg was In a badly bruised
and broken condition and it was the
concensus of opinion that the owner
had lost It by being run over by a
passing train. Several local sleuths
are at work on the mystery and are
I ivt f.
. - ""'
a man
with but one leg. However, it is
scarcely possible that the owner will
be found and the evidence has been
destroyed, having by this time fur
nished a good piece of firewood with
which some Mexican housewife has
cooked the head of the family a juicy
pot of frijoles. And there has been
no "kick" from the owner of the peg.
GRAND LABOR DAY
CELEBRATION
MONDAY
i
Preparations Most Stupendous Ever
Undertaken for a Celebration in
Greenlee County. Clifton in Readi
ness to Entertain Several Thousand
Visitors.
Clifton is preparing to entertain sev
eral thousand visitors on next Mon
day, Labor Day, and alt arrangements
have been completed by the committee
in charge. The working men have
given their aid to the committees and
have done everything in their power
to make the celebration the biggest
and best that has ever been staged
in this section of the state. Every
resource has been exhausted in devis
ing new and novel entertainment for
the guests and the day promises to
be one to be long remembered.
The grand parade in the morning
at 10 o'clock will start the activities
of the day and this feature alone will
be worth coming many miles to see.
Gorgeously decorated autos will be
in line and magnificent floats will add
to the attractiveness of the pageant,
and prizes are to be offered for the
best decorated cars and the" most
novel floats. The different crafts will
march in their sections in the parade
and the members will be attired in
their various catchy uniforms, some of
which will be unique in their get-up.
The parade will traverse the princi
pal streets of the town and pass be
fore the reviewing stand at the Rear-
don Hotel, continuing to the ball park
where it will disband and the sports
of the day will take place.
Governor Hunt will deliver the prin
cipal speech of the day and other
speakers will be Farrell Cordero, of
Tucson, A. A.- Worsiey, of Tucson,
John L. Donnelly, of Miami, and Sen-
or Moreno, of Morenci. Special trains
will be run during (he day to bring
the crowds from outside points.
Besides the sports which will all
be held on the ball ground there will
be a horse race in South Clifton af
ter the noon hour, and at a later
hour a broncho busting - and roping
tournament will be held on the ball
grounds. Several hundred dollars in
prizes have been offered for each
event And the committee in charge
have been most liberal in their desire
to please everyone and they deserve a
great deal of credit for the manner in
which the affairs of the celebration
have been handled.
The Labor Day Committee consists
of the following: Chas. Alt, Chair
man; Rudolph Schostal, Secretary
Treasurer; W. A. Hamilton, Steve
Heath, J. C. Karner, Hugh Forbes,
Jr., W. H. Goldsack, Al Wasem, Al
bert Baron, R. Walch, J. C. Frapps,
G. C. Hoy, B. F. ' Bradberry, Sam
Bridges, F. V. Gallego and R. A.
Maley.
The Day's entertainment will con
clude with -a wrestling match at the
Princess theatre between Al Wasem,
local lightweight champion, vs. Gus
Eisel, the undefeated champion from
Chicago. Five big reels of pictures
will also be shown. Two free dances
will be given for the Americans, one
at ,the Princess theatre and one at
the tennis court on the East Side.
There will also be two dances for the
Mexican's to be held at the Alahambra
theatre and the Spanish-Amrican hall
on Chase Creek.
Following is the program that will
be carried out on- Labor Day:
T oY Phderitsirey skwbdo 1 1 1 12
Program:
10:00 A. M. grand parade, R. E.
Maley, Grand Marshal.
12:00 M. Speeches.
1:00 P. M. Races.
Pie Eating Contest prize football.
One-legged race prize 1 hall and
bat.
Peanut Race prize 1 pair Earrings .
Wheelbarrow Race prize 1 Punch
ing bag.
Lean Man's Race prize 1 box cig
ars. Threaded Needle Race prize 1
Luncheon Tray.
Blind-fold Race, ladies prize 1
Lavalier.
High Jump prize 1 pair Indian
Clubs.
Girls Race, under 10 years, prize -1
Vanity Box.
Running Broad Jump prize 1 Pen
Knife.
Hop, Step and Jump Prize One
Sweater.
Baby Race, children under four
prize, One Cup and Saucer.
MEMBER
IS KILLED AT
Frederico Bosquez Draws Knife on A.
F. of L. Organizer and Threatens to
, Kill All Union Organizers in This
District Before Many Days, He Diet
At twelve thirty Thursday? night
Frederico Bosquez, an I. W. W. was
shot and killed by E. J. Moreno, or
ganizer for the State Federation of
Labor and special deputy at Morenci.
Apparently Moreno was a marked
man for the speech he made last Sun
day against the tactics of the I. W.
W. at their meeting which was held
at the Plaza in Morenci. In part
he told them: "Instead of acquiring
the necessities of life through violence
and blood; work for them."
Thursday night at eleven-thirty the
deceased was seen loit.ing in front
of Casaley's pool hall in - Newtown.
At twelve-thirty he entered and walk
ing within a few feet of Moreno be
gan to abuse the union and it's or
ganizers. Coming closer he used the
v1 1 am t nf Ion CT,, q cm nnH m,laln Via
right hand, he drew a ten Inch dirk
from his sleeve as though to strike.
Moreno, who,, is a special deputy,
drew a .45 calibre Colt's pistol from
his belt and fired three shots into the
body of Bosquez. At the first shot,
which was fatal, entering the right
side through the heart, Bosquez turn
ed to the door, as he did still grasping
the dagger, Moreno fired two shots
more in rapid succession, both bullets
entering the right Vside. Bosquez
then walked to the door, opened it,
and staggered across the street and ,
fell dead.
Constable Johnny ' Hoffman of Mo
renci, was within close proximity
when the shots were fired and ran
to the spot at once. Moreno walked
up to Hoffman and gave up his gun
and told him he had killed a man who
had attempted his life with a dagger.
On the stand today at the Coroner's
Jury and trial E. J. Moreno swore
that JJr'edrico Bosquez was an entire
stranger to - him. The Coroner's
jury recommended that the County At
toreny investigate the killing thorough
ly before rendering -a decisive verdict.
GOSPER WITHDRAWS-
On Monday of this week Jim Cos
per, one of the first of the democratic
candidates 'to announce for the office
of Sheriff of Greenlee county, with
drew from the race and left the field
open to Slaughter and Cash. Mr.
Cosper had been considering with
drawing from the race for the past
week and after thinking the matter
over seriously decided that it was to
the best interests of the party to
have his name stricken from the bal
lot. The contest is now being hotly
waged between Slaughter and Cash
and the. retirement of Cosper will
lend added strength to one side or
the other.
School Girls' Race Prize, 1 Box Sta
tionery.
Elephant Race Prize, 2 Catcher's
Mitts.
Barrell of Shoes Race Prize, 1 Foot
ball. ,
Potato Race Girls Prize, 1 Lavalier
Potato Race Boys Prize, 1 Ball and
Bat.
Fat Man's Race Prize, 1 box Cigars.
Married Ladies' Race Prize, One
Back Comb. ,
Three-legged Race Prize, 1 Base
Ball and Bat each.
Sack Race Prize 1 Base Ball and
Bat.
Girls' Race, Prize, 1 Set Collar Pins
Egg and Spoon Race, Prize, 1 Lady's
Handbag.
50-yard Dash Free for all, prize, 1
pair shoes.
100-yard Dash Free for all. prize.
1 Hat. - '
Tug of War, prize, $10.00 cash.
Single Handed Drilling Contest,
prize, $100.00 cash.
Double Handed Drilling Contest,
prize, $200.00 cash.
Drilling Contest, double jack.
Prize, $200 Donated by Arizona Cop
per Company.
Drilling Contest, single jack. Prize
$100.
Mucking Contest. Prize, $50. Do
nated by Arizona Copper Co.
Followed by horse races, buckg
bronchos, roping contests, and many
other spectacular feats .
Tug of War.
Badges, soft drinks, ice cream,
souvenirs, etc., will be on sale all
day on the celebration grounds.
Wrestling match at Princess Thea
tre at 7:30 p. m. Al Wasem, the
world's champion lightweight wrestler
vs. Gus Eisel, the undefeated cham
pion from Chicago. Tickets: Ring
side, $2, reserved, $1.50; general ad
mission $1.00. Also five big reels of
pictures .
Two free American dances at Prin
cess theatre and East Side Tennis
Court.
Two free dances for Mexicans at
Alahambra Theatre and Spanish-American
hall.
Good music all day by brass bands.
Special excursion trains will return
to Morenci and Metcalf after dances.
NEWTOWN
