7 &
1
DAILY EDITION
. vr JW5.
G HANTS PAHS. JOEIIII5B OOt'lTrV, OREOOK, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1910.
WHOLE SrVMBER 1839.
No Other Town in tlp World the Size of Grants Pass lias a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service.
, . ' , . . : , i . ' : i V I,
lite'
"r ..' ...).'; ''... -
I.! 'Hi.
t
I
1 fl
! t..
2
f
I '
: ! i
r ; r 1 M
!l.lH' Ir, '.I
"ir i ,'
'. ! '
li .,'
iii . i . i 1 1 ';
f 'i ,
;i 1. 1 l,i ( ii '
vt..;.:. ' '
re.il. ')
:i .. P. i,"
nil -I'll i
.Xl t i "
' t H'M .
Mi : ..
V .Hire ;di.
'"! ' i1 v i '
. t '"Y i ' ' ! 1 I
'Ni i .'' I i
ul "Ai.'i
Mi'"1' t!ri
' I 'I;' c i
OH OTAMT WC
I t I 11 III I I III I
m & mm mm m
Hill I MIL.
o Northern Greece
Yince, George
t. 1. A serious revo-
TEDDY ROASTS
WILSON POLICIES
III III SPEECH
Now York, tfopt. 1.--W. 11. Will-
cox, chalrmau of the republican na
tional committee, bullwes that Col
ouel Roosevelt's first speech In behalf
of Hughe t Lewlston, Me., Dot only
':! of great value to tbe republican
ed With the Kins ),',ii(,aiA ut "noteworthy wn-
' 'jtrlbution to tbe history of the ok-
lis Power to thclo:" .
I'ltmKinK i"io me .Maine campaign,
Roosevelt assailed the Wilson admin-'
(Miration for it Mexican policy, flay
ed hypheniam and held President
WiUon responsible for "an evil re-
ken out In uorthern i rival of non-American and antl
wrdlng to Salonlkl re ! American division along polttlcal
tantlne ha abdicated 'racial lines."
tflclal itspntche from! Till I due, primarily, the colonel
afternoon announced , said, to the fart that "Prettldent Wll-
R:
11 FOR R. R. ERfiPLOYES
Congress Makes Haste to Enact Measure, Acceptable to
Trainmen, That Will Prevent the Threatened Strike,
With Investigation by a Commission Created by the
Act Before Final Award Is Made
Washington, 8ept. 1. After fever
ish haute In Ita efforts to thwart a
railroad atrlke, the house late tbla af
ternoon passed the Adamaoa elght
hour law for train employes. This
measure, acceptable to the brother
hood as a preventative of the threat
ened atrlke, propones an eight-hour
day for train employes with 10 hours'
pay, pending a six to eight months'
itloulsta are tn control son has lacked the courage and the Investigation by a commission created
t In Macedonia. Tbe j vision to lead thla nation In the path ; under the act.
The official count was 239 to 56.
Immediately after tbe bill pawned,
vo In the Macedonian of high duty, and by this lack of j
ma have Joined the re- Affirmative leadership has loosened!
Tbe (Ireek troop' Injtho moral fibre of our people, weak-! Democratic Leader Kitcbln moved to
disarmed and Interned 'ened our national spirit and baa en- adjourn to 11 a. m. tomorrow. He
French force after a'couraged the upgrowth within our j stated It was vastly important that
itlonlsts had IhIiI siege ; borders of separatism along the lines every member be In bis seat at that
i and fighting bad re-; of racial origin." hour In order to consider the senate
Roosevelt declared the citizen who bill, which he said he had been u
irently l"Vut off from ! seeks to shape American policy In the Jsured would pass the upper house
i with the outalilo ! Intret of the country from which he "sometime before morning."
nflrmatlou of tbe Sit "r his ancestors came has no mcral No unusual acene marked the pas
of King Constantlne's jrlght to Amerlcsn cltlrensblp. isage; every one appeared to regard
poms from tbe Greek' ,n ft statement left at republican the matter aa cut and dried.
Is known tht a revo- :'' quarters before his departure for The senate at a late hour this at
;y favoring tbe aUle Indianapolis, and given 6ul today, .ternoon recessed until 8 o'clock to-
-f.-..Trsr-i' Zt.' (.-hi... 'in "T '
r-old crown prince,
TelWa'peeoltl Wlllcox commented aff
length on the colonel's denunciation
1.
following Ms uiiiini"ii.Mii p i imiMi iiibv r,-v(Mf nmincauon mat
regency,
itlon. An Idol of the
and pro-ally In sym-
wages for all railroad employes en
gaged In operation of trains In inter
state commerce. Decision as to wages
by the commission shall be made
within six to twelve months, tbe com
mission under the bill having the
power from time to time to change
tbe hours and the wages.
General debate on the house bill
ended at 2:30. Congressman Adam
son Introduced an amendment chang
ing the effective date of the measure
from December 1 to January 1. This
was adopted.
A. B. Garretaon, spokesman for the
brotherhoods, refused to comment up
on thla amendment. Garretson and
otner leaders conferred with con
gressional leaders this afternoon.
President Oompera of the Amerl
can Federation of Labor was making
feverish efforts to get In touch with
Garretson and the other brotherhood
leaders. ' One group of railroad men
, locked themselves In the house ways
and means committee room end the
doorkeeper, a brotherhood man, de-
inled that any one was present.
j I-Arer ll aa learned that the broth.
President ierhom' chiefs had Informed their
imenos in congress mat tney were
Icy.
"We have all known." he declared, strike has been ordered called off
that President Wilson constantly simultaneously with the formal notl
indoretood to have the '
M.MP) llAttli,lP VnlivitlA j
i permuting ino sending oi .rniB anuria rcnomination for tne presidency,
jammunltlon Into Mexico, but no onejThe senate plan to rush the elght-
una ui-iuip iiiinruiCTi iur .-uuvinc 'juour Din inrougn oeiore it adjourns
hi vacillation In as concise and force- 'tonight.
Washington, Sept,
tl I'A '
Monday', scheduled national railroad !0,,,,r? ' m.endmPnt' b,ut W0H,d
ccepi u ir rorcea 10 oo so. v
One portion of the senate bill which
pro-war party.
1 mohlllxatloit
of
changed his mind on the aubject of 'nation tomorrow at Shadow Lawn of!labor dvoa" feer win be bltter,
oilosej oj ae worsen oeciares;
"Any worker who shall wilfully de
lay, obstruct or hinder operation of
trains shall be guilty of a mlademean
that Creece, Influenced j form M CoM Roosevelt."
declaration or war on 1
gars.
All arrangements for a night ses-
Thn imtlonal committee called at- lnn .nmnini.j mu .n&o...
uay. w il imme(iiateiy(tenton ,0 UoOBevoU.B ref,.r0nces toate lexers said they would re
M behind those or the:whtkt ifTnml AmNin Interven-jn)an in anHr,lon von afu.r m)nlKht
at Balkan offensive to ((on , ltftV Bnd lh6 ,.bIoody pNI0P- ,(0 gpt , vote Thpy mW m the
In Mexico. senate will put through will be the
"Mr. Roosevelt's speech was pure name as the Adamson (house) bill,
and unadulterated Americanism." -When the latter measure cornea up in
Wlllcox declared, "and In supporting i the senate late today It may be sub
Mr. Hughes every one must reallxe j mtted for the senate bill. In any
that he Is wholly unselfish, that he eVent, senate leaders said, the com-
ha notntng to gam for nimsetr. ana inWed bill should reach the nresident
0 CAUSE
' ISE IN PRICES
Is actuated solely by motives of patriotism."
Sept. 1. Big eastern
waiting for more defln
i from Washington that
no strike or the 400,000
ore freight embargoes
before tomorrow afternoon.
"The bill will go through 4he sen-
j ,ate tonight." said Senator Newlands.
isioltlW (XMU'KHATH WITH chairman of the Interstate commerce
j IMU'MAXIAV THOOP8 fommltti-e. in charge of It.
i , i The statement of senate republican
I inrlon Sent. 1 A Serbian force ! hat they will not obstruct
rffert vs todarand Vo:1 commanded by Genersl Gad.dtch U " 'Islntlon. increased the con
ZJT lentered Roumanla to co-operate with "" ' the administration men in
the Romranlanc snd Russians and ine Bente nnt Tne trlK rrl8lB l
'good as ended.
j Following adjournment of the re
publican senate conference, It was an
nounced Senator Smoot will Intro-
Iduce a substitute resolution, to In-
was enthuiiustlcftlly received, accord
ing to dispatches here today.
RECOVER
LOST TO BRITISH
Ifted.
nnsylvanU It was said
tlon might he taken to-
ellevlng the drastic em
places ban on all
no definite assurances
ven shippers. The New
' Is frankly waiting for
assurances that the
vlll bo withdrawn, Other j
ted to follow suit. Km-1
A porlnhable goods, in-j,
Istuffs. livestock and . , . . ... - .
, . ., London, Sept. 1, The Germans de
f now In effect. This i
will he no fresh hlp- ,lvore(1 thelr hoovlest counter-attack
1 to the larger cities un- against the Brltluh lines last night
t bant lifted, and unless! since the Somme offonslve begun,
word comes from the, making an onslaught on a front of
i larger cities mny seejnenrly two miles, General Hnlg re-
wlthout tKoIr supply of portod this afternoon,
id other foodstuffs being j Five separate attacks were luunch-
Prices Already ,re rls- ed agnlnst British positions oh a
y la tip eight cnts a'a.OOO-yard front In the region of
ditcn advanced from, 10 joivenchy and lllghwood, after a tcr
nt and meat followed.1. t(Q bombardment.' Large German
.nd Central terminal, the forces were employed, but four nl-
station and other lines tacks were repulsed with heavy Iorh,
)ured through, hurrying1 The. fifth German onslaught carried
of the threatened strike. Iho Teutons Into n advanced llrltlsh
ven reported severai ex- trench at two points on a small
operation.' Reports from frontage, British gunners uccess
I summer resorts and all fully silenced several .. hostile bat
: the Atliintle cont In- terles of Beanralnii, cuimlng a big ex
clude provision for compulsory arbi
tration. Some of the members said
there would be no attempt to fili
buster against the committee's bill,
but that strong effort would bs made
to get the arbitration provision In.
However, they said,1 they did not
think It would he prevented from
coming to a vote on schedule time.
The Interstate commerce commit
tee reported the senate bill favorably
at 2:30 and unanimous consent to
proceed with It was granted.
The senate bill, like that of the
house, sets January 1 for the pro
posed law to go Into effect and ex
cepts eloctrlo Interurhan railways
from Its provisions, It sets the period
of Investigation from six to eight
months, Instead of six to nine months,
and provides a per diem compensa
tion of $25 for commission members;
it also provides $50,000 Instead of
$2R,000 for expenses of the commis
sion. The sennto bill provides als: that
the Interetnte commerce eommlHston
vacationers have been plosion. A British gas attack In the '-i,n h... i,naan Ia Sv hmipi nf Inhrtw
lor and punished by a fine not exceed
ing $5,000 and imprisonment not ex
ceeding one year, or both."
As soon as Senator Newlands com
pleted his explanation of his bill. Sen
ator Cummins asked:
"Does the section which Imposes a
penalty on all who delay or obstruct
operation of trains apply to an em
ploye who refuses to move a train?"
"It is meant merely to keep the
arteries of trade open snd to pre
vent any one wilfully closing them,"
replied Newlands.
Senator Reed Joined Cummins In
an attack on the penalty section. He
got Newlands to admit that that sec
tion and the one whlcli gives the in
terstate commerce commission power
to fix watee, rates and hours of
labor were put tn the bill ty the com
mittee and not in any way suggested
by President Wilson. Reed declared
the penalty seotlon virtually means
abrogation ot the right to strike and
Involuntary servitude for the em
ployes, although Newlands Insisted it
was not so meant.
An amendment by Congressman
Sterling, Illinois, proposing that com
pulsory Investigation be Included in
the Adamson measure was overruled
as Irrelevant. Sterling then offered
a motion to recommit the bill, with
Instructions to Include such a plan.
piil ly ns possible.
ISSISTI:
15,000 pnisoms
AMJMilS
Petrograd, Sept. 1. Russian
troops captured 289 officers and 15,
501 men In a resumption of the fight
ing on the eastern front yesterday,
It was officially announced today. The
captured booty includes sis cannon
and 55 machine guns.
Fierce fighting ha broken out in
tbe region of LokachI,, Sleksinetz and
Halitz, the war office reported, after
a fortnight of comparative Inactivity
on those sectors of the Russian front.
ROUlIfl
NUTCRACKER
AT IRK
FRISCO READY FOR
RAILROAD STRIKE
San Francisco, Sept 1. Prepara
tions for the threatened railroad
strike continued today despite, the
apparent change for the , better
brought about by the introduction of
legislation to avert trouble. Today
the employee of the Southern Pacific
and Santa Fe ere receiving final
friendly warnings from the com
panies, reminding them that any man
striking forfeits his Tights to pension
and his seniority rights. In addition,
the company is posting notices in all
waiting rooms, ticket offices and
freight depots, warning passengers
and shippers that tickets will be sold
or shipments received only when the
destination can be reached by tomor
row night. High board fences, with
barbed wire on top, have been built
around the terminal yards of tbe
Southern Pacific, Western Pacific,
Santa Fe and Northwestern Pacific.
Railroads report today that more
of their employes have definitely de
cided to remain with tbe company.
With these and a reserve force of
pensioned employes they expect to
operate several trains dally. Even
the Southern Pacific trans-bay ferry
service will probably continue In case
of a strike, for arrangements were
made whereby the S. P. ferry boats,
which are not affected by the strike,
will operate between the ferry here
and the Key Route pier.
Express companies have issued a
notice that any goods they receive
for shipment will be accepted only
subject to delay. They will give their
attention to keeping up the milk sup
ply of the city.
There was further assurance today
that the price of foodstuffs will he
lower rather than higher as a result
of the strike and embargo. This was
noted In the slumping of the price
of all fruit and vegetables, owing to
unusually heavy shipments.
Washington, Sept. 1. The house
defeated 120 to 81 n amendment to
the Adamson bill by Congressman
Clark, Florida, to Include In the bill
the 1,600,000 employes not affiliated
with the four brotherhoods.
Washington, Sept. 1. After a
sharp fight the house this afternoou
decided to exempt from the Adamson
eight-hour bill's provisions electric
interurhan railways and Independent
railroads of less than 100 miles, ex
cept terminal companies.
Berlin. Sept. 1. German troops
recaptured from the British ground
lost near Longneval and Delvllle
wood In heavy fighting onlhe Sonmie
front Inst night. It was officially an-
Ypres salient had satisfactory results. td prescribe Just and reasonable nounced thti afternoon
i
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
OF G. A. R. ELECTED
Kansas City, Sept 1. William I.
Patterson, of Pittsburg, Pa., was to
day elected commander-in-chief of
the Grand Army of the Republic,, re
ceiving 436 votes out of 670 cast.
CONDUCTORS
T
TO JOIN IN STRIKE
Chicago, Sept. 1. Conductors of
five western railroads have voted not
to Join a strike If It Is called, it was
announced at the railroad general
managers' offices this afternoon. A
delegation of Ave men, It was said,
already are on their way to Washing
ton to notify the brotherhoods. About
2,000 conductors will be represented.
The roads on which the men are em
ployed are:
, The Chicago & Northwestern, Chi
cago. Milwaukee & St. Paul, Penn
sylvania, the- Burlington and the
Chicago & Alton.
The action was said by the man
agers to have been taken at a secret
meeting last night.
Anstrians Held in Precaricos
Position, and 400 Square
Eliles of Jenritcry Is Re
lisqoished ia Transylvafa
London, Sept. 1. -Using the fan- w
ous German "nutcracker" tactics, the
Roumanians are pressing forward
rapidly on both wings, squeezing the
Austrians ont of all southeast era '
Transylvania. . . '
The Austrians. caught in the cen- ,
ter and in danger of' being crushed by .
the Jaws of the "nutcracker," already
have abandoned more than 400 ;
square miles of Transylvaaiaa ter
ritory to the Invaders. At least a
dozen towns and villages have been -captured
by the Roumanians sines ,
war was declared Sunday night So
rapidly are the Austrians retreating
on the center that there has been '
little heavy fighting and . but few '
prisoners have been taken.
The Roumanian right wing, linked ,
np with the Russians near the Buko
vina frontier, is advancing on the
famous old Hungarian city ot Bis
tritsa, 80 miles from the Roumanian
frontier. r . , ' - '.' .
A Central News dispatch from The
Hague today said that the Austrians'
are preparing to evacuate Bistritsa. ,
Heavy fighting continues along the
mountain front leading; southward' '
from Bukovina. Along the southern
border of Transylvania the Austrians
are attempting to make a stand In
the mountain . passes. The Berlin
Tageblatt's correspondent at the Aus
trian front, admitting the surrender
of Kronstadt and other towns to the
Roumanians, Indicated that the Ans
trians will fight stubbornly to hold
Hermannstadt, former , capital of
Transylvania, and the Red Tower
pass, the mountain gateway approach
ing Hermannstadt Should the Rou
manians burst through this pass in
large force, they might cut off and
capture the Austrians retreating from
southeastern Transylvania.
Forty-five miles farther west, how
ever, the Roumanians have pierced to
Valkan pass, it is admitted at Vienna,
and have marched ten miles north
ward into Transylvania to the rail
way town of Petrosenyl.
TRANSYLVANIANOT
TO BE EVACUATED
Berlin, Sept 1. Despite state
ments appearing tn the Austrian
press, the Teutonic forces have no
Intention of evacuating the largest
part ot Transylvania, the United
Press was Informed this afternoon.
The plan of campaign contemplates
the evacuation ot only a tew places.
From several ot these the Austrians '
already have retired. The withdraw
al in each instance was a part of a
plan agreed upon many months ago
and was simply tor the purpose ot
straightening and shortening the line.
Vienna dispatches regarding the
captures in the early fighting ot
Transylvania has increased the public
confidence in the , success of the
Austro-Germans In this new war
theater. It is stated that wherever
the Austrians made a stand they re
pelled superior Roumanian forces
with comparative ease,
Similarity, on the Greek front the
Bulgarians have had little trouble re
pelling Serbian advances. , The war
office today announced that Serbian
attacks in the region ot Ceganska
Plants and Moglena broke down.
fl,
v
i -
I IR a n Print 1
