FINANCIAL EDITION
lEuerttnj
ffieiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTTRA
VOL. 11. 3StO. 180
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 191G.
Cortaion-r, 101(1, bt in Fobuo Limu CowriMf.
1'ItIOE OISTE CENT
VILLA KILLED,
AYS REPORT
JO CARRANZA
Rumored Slain by Carran-
zistas and fiody -Rushed
Southward
CONFIRMATION LACKING
Other Dispatches Say Outlaw
Leads Chase Into Du-
iingo State
Pnncho Villa has been killed, ac
cording to an unconfirmed report to
the Carrnnzn War Office at Qucre
taro, and his body a being carried
southward by his men.
Together with this rumor, other un
official reports today state that Villa
is near Tcpehuanes, 80 miles south of i
the Durango State line and approxi
mately 125 miles south of Parral, and
that the American troops already
have crossed the State boundary in
pursuit.
It was said Villa had a long lead.
General Pershing, from Namiquipa,
wirelessed General Funston the names
of the five American soldiers wound
ed at Guerrero, buiTgave no informa
tion as to the expedition and the
whereabouts of Colonels Dodd and
Brown relative to Villa's position.
Dispatches continue.. wholly contra
dictory in reference to activity of the
Carrnnza forces.
El Paso, now famed as the head
quarters of alarmists, reports that
Generals Gavira and Bcrtani, Car
ranza lieutenants, are ready to take
the field against the Villistas when
the Americans withdraw, which ac
tion they urge.
General Funston's information is
that the Cnrrnnzistaa arc actively co
operating and that Villa is being
driven by the United States forces up
against n wall of Carranza troops. El
Paso says the Carranzistas are delib
erately allowing Villa, to flee unmo
lested. ' Washingt- '$ calm,, confident in as
surances ii carranza sympathy, if
not active .support. Senator Fall
continues
jjnnda." t
his anti-parranza propa-
,1
RUJIOIl OF VILlA'S DEATH
STIItS CAKKASZA CAPITAL
QUEItRTARO, Mox., via Galveston,
Tex., April 11. Rumors, hh yet uncon
firmed," reached the .Mexican War Otllce
hero today that Francisco Villa was
killed) In tho last fight with Cnrrnnzistaa
flear tho town of ClenegJIlla. Vllla'H men,
according to tho rumor, weio carrying his
body na they continued their flight to the
South. ,
War Minister Obregon at once wired tho
.commanding olllcer at Chihuahua City
a'S'dnB for contlrmatlon of tho report or a
denil, but up to the time of sending this
dlsphtch no reply had been received. Tho
runftiiv, however, created a deepfmpres
alon here.
U. S. TROOPS CHASE VILLA
INTO DURAXfiO, SAYS REPORT
EL PASO, Tex., April 11. United States
cavalry were reported today to have
crossed Into Durango Stnto after Villa.
Par in advance of them, the outlaw chief
was said to have reached Tepehuunes on
tho Stute road to Durango City.
Passengers from Chihuahua today raid
that Leon Bar!, a French merchant, of
wuorrero; jour Aran peddlers and a num
ber of Mexicans with three Americans and
two otlier foreigners were killed by Villa's
men at Mlnaca and Guerrero.
Tho latter five are again said to be Dr.
A. T, htell, Leo Lindsay, Frank Woods,
Herman Blankenburg and Donald Mac
Gregor. The Americans from Chihuahua City de
nounced the Carranzlsta forces In south
ern Crlhuahua, charging them with step
ping put of Villa's way after he defeated
them at Guerrero. His night from the
American pursuit was through Mlnaca and
Lajunta, thence through HI Itancho de
Santiago and Cierro Prieto to Satevo and
OJo Azules. No opposition was offered
by Carranza soldiers at any of. these
places, the refugees declared, ana Car
ranzUtaa did not leave Chihuahua City to
take pp the pursuit until villa was well on
his way to Durango.
How the Carranzistas In Durango City
Continued on Tate Tire, Column One
THE WEATHER
There Is said to bo a place -where the
Bun comes up like thunder out of China
'cross the bay. Luckily for us It doesn't
do It here. We have had quite enough
trouble In training that alarm clock to
make the arrival of rosy dawn as Imper
ceptible an affair as could be compatible
with getting up at nil, The way It's fixed
now Is Just to have the "wind-alarm" key
turned one and a half times so that the
gong gives one Jlttle apologetic ting-a-ling
and subsides Into abashed silence, at one
sterp took. We, have had many queries of
late as to whether this business of morn
ing sunlight Is not coming earlier than
was its wont In winter and now answer
them all at once. Yes, yes, quite so, dear
readers, the sun, Is getting up earlier and
earlier eery day now. It hit the 5:28 a.
m. mark today.
It shines In our eyes and pays us back
for that trick we played on the alarm
clock.
FRECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Fair tonight and, Wednesday; warmer
tonight: moderate south and south
juest winds.
For ditaUs see page ft
LOST AKBFOTJND
BCBU Ivcwt oel in tho name of Edrouad
bbw, for lot No 7 . w Pt la SwuSa
S03, Mount MuiUft intr AjmflCitES
taa bttu ICd fur duvtkme deed.
HeluiD (o H Sbsw
39U PUu it
Toy rnWI-K- rrakfoidv o4 YerfT Jlon
ua
reward
iSll K Norn. Keo 11589 X
Utlitr tu
SiU as 1-acM It ana la
"MUTE" AXI) MURDRKEIl
lilt. WAITE'S XEHiHBOBS
Accused Poisoner of Millionaire Hests
Easily Despite Company
NIJW YOttK. April It In liH roll In
the Tombs between Oluseppe Arlrhlclln
convicted of committing a murder for
litre, ifttd i:rne-t Schiller. Hie Herman
"pirate" of Mutnppo fnme. Or Arthur
Warren Wnlte todny rested more peace,
fully thnn he has iliicc his arrest for tho
poisoning of millionaire John II Peek
He has denied himself to nil callers
and politely refuses the frlendl advances
of his jailers Ills case may come to
trial the llrst week in May
DU PONT FEUD
STIRS DELAWARE
REPUBLICANS
Alfred I. Defeats Henry A.
in Rural New
Castle
HOT SCENES IN CAUCUSES
DOVHR, Del. April II The factional
family quarrel In the du Pont family man
ifested Itself nt the Republican Stnto
Convention hero today nnd created ono
of tho Hottest lights Delaware has wit
nessed In.mnuv years. In fnct. not since
tho da s of Addlcks, the gasman.
The fight started when the mini dele
Rates of New Castle Countv this morning
new a conference and otrd. 2., to 113, for
Alfred f. du Pont as delegate to the Na
tional Convention nt Chicago, turning
down Alfred I. s cousin, Henry A. du Pont,
present t'nlted Slates Senator. Thev also
voted unanimously for Gosernor Charles
It Miller us a delegate.
Next the Wilmington city delegation
held a caucus nnd otcd. 23 to 17. for
State Chairman Mitchell for national dele
gate Mitchell hns been fighting Governor
Miller for the honor.
Although called for 11 o'clock, tho con
tention proper did not get started until
12 30 It was opened by State Chairman
IMwnrd Mitchell, who thus ended his term
as Stato chairman.
ltobert II. Richards, who Is one of tho
7th Ward delegates from Wilmington j
wnose election lias been contested, was
Introduced as temporary chairman. lie
said he did not want to sit In the conven
tion unless ho had nn honest right to do
so. However, ho did not see why he
should not picside. Then he launched Into
his speech of acceptance, arraigning the
Democratic party. He spoke mostly on
national Issues.
Mr. Richards pleaded with tho conven
tion to try to restore harmony, saying
that peisonnl ambitions should not be
made paramount to the good of the party
"All men here are good enough Republi
cans to. sea that thp.se things arc dono
that will put it in n position Where there
is loft no running sore," was Ills, parting
declaration.
Prior to tho assembly of the Stato con
tention, spirited scenes were enacted In
tho Hoveralscouny and district caucuses,
in which choice for delegatos to the
National Convention was Hlgullled
Alfred I. du Pont's selection for national
delegate by the rural Now Cnstle caucus
was the first actual show of strength of
the opposing family factions and was it
body blow to United States Senator Henry
A. du Pont nnd to General T. Coleman du
Pont, national committeeman, who here
tofore has dominated tho Republican or
ganization in Delaware and particularly
In New Castle County Thus the quarrel
between Alfred I. du Pont and tho other
members of his family over the tale of
Coleman du Pont's 00,000.000 In stock
t'nntimird on I'me To, Column To
MYSTERYIrTSLAMG
OF STRANGER; MAY BE
AUTO MURDER VICTIM
Body of Well-Dressed Man
Found on Meadow Street
With Bullet Wound
in Temple
BAFFLING CASE, COPS SAY
The body of an unidentified, well
dressed man, thought to bo the victim
of an automobile murder, was found early
today, with blood Mowing from a wound
In the right temple, on Meadow (lath)
street near Haverford avenue.
Automobile tracks cut In the soft road
way, the marks of a woman's heel, ab.
sence of a weapon or signs of a snuggle
and the reposeful attitude In which the
body was found, are elements in what
the police, after several hours' Investiga
tion, believe will prove a baffling case.
The nearest huilding Is more .than 100
yeards distant.
The body was found by C .Stetler, of
706 Preston street, an Icewagon driver,
and Frank Kent, of 6U North 16th street.
DrlMng through the little-used thorough
fare at 6:30 o'clock this morning, they
made out the form near a dim gasoline
lamp on the east sidewalk of the street
The body was stretched out on Its right
tide. The head rested against the base
of the seven-foot iron fence which sur
rounds the female department of Kirk
bride's. On the west side of the street
Is the male department.
Stetler called Policeman Phillips, of the
39th street .and Lancaster avenue station,
and the body was hurried to the Presby
terian Hospital, where physicians said the
wound nau been caused by a bullet. Dr.
T. J. Elllnger, district surgeon, said the
man had been dead for probably an hour.
An autopsy will be performed at the
Morgue by Coroner's Physician Wads,
worth In an endeavor to find the bullet.
Lieutenant Savage hurried Special Po
liceman farmer, uoseuoro, iiarbrldge and
Shannon to the spot where the body was
found to search for a weapon In the event
of the man having committed suicide. City
nan ueiecuvss uoogan, uananan and La
strange scoured the neighborhood.
After running out every Immediate
ol"o, the ivollc were satisfied that the
man was shot by another person. P,e
uj.us Uio bud lay as if placed
there, it Is believed the occupants of
an automobile, which- as run alongside
the curb, carefully deposited the dead man
In the lonely suot and hurried away Four
footprints made by a woman's shoe were
near the curb.
The theory that the wound was Inflicted
by a sharp spike of the fence was rejected.
There were no powder marks on the roan's
clothing, eliminating the theory of sulolde
by shooting Ttti man's hat was pulled
down over bis eyes and his pockets, though
containing m money apparently were un
disturbed. Three possible means of Identifying the
CoaUaatd ea i" tour, Column lira
SUFFRAGISTS' NEW PLAN
Mrs. J. Claude Bedford, of Fhila- ,
dclphia (above), and Mrs. J. O.
Miller, of Pittsburgh, nrc heading
a campaign to have the cause of
suffrage represented at the com
ing Republican and Democratic
National Conventions.
CABINET REVIEWS
U-BOAT WARFARE
FOR TWO HOURS
Little Improvement in Gen
eral .Situation; Mem-,
bers Admit j " -
SERIOUS ON LEAVING
WASHINGTON, April 11.
For more than two hours the Pres
ident and Cabinet discussed the sub
marine situation today. The question
of what action this Government can
tnke in the face of the German denial
of responsibility for any attnek on the
channel steamer Sussex was thor
aughly canvassed. Although the text
of the German note was not at hand,
the outline of it, as indicated fn the
messages sent by Ambassador Gerard,
and communicated to Secretary Lnns
ing by Count von BernstorlT yester
day, was thoroughly discussed. It
was agreed that there has been little
improvement in the general situation,
but until all of the information now
en route to this country is in posses
sion of the President and the State
Department no action will be taken,
officials said.
"The situation remains extremely
serious," one Cabinet official said,
"and we see little chance for improve
ment." Despite the German denial of re
sponsibility for any attack on the
Continued on Vatr live. Column Two
SUFFRAGISTS TO MOVE
ON PARTY CONCLAVES
Women Launch Movement to
Exercise Power in Chicago
and St. Louis
A national suffrage movement to par
ticipate In the national conventions of tho
Republican and Democratic parties was
launched In Philadelphia today.
The first announcement of the plan to
represent every State wltn women work
ers at the conventions of tha two parties
Was made here this afternoon. Hugo suf
frage parades will march through the
streets of Chicago during the Republican
Convention n that city, June 7, and at
St Louis during the Democratic Conven
tion. June 14.
The announcement was made by Miss
Ethel Shrjgley, of Lansdowne. director of
the campaign In this State.
She is assisted by Mrs. . Claude Bed
ford, of this city, chairman of finance for
the State association, and Mrs. John O. Mil
ler, of Pittsburgh, first vice president of
the State association and chairman for
Allegheny County, Mrs. Miller arrived to
day to help, perfect plans.
Registration Officers
Will Sit Tomorrow
Registration officers -will Bit to
morrow to qualify voters for the
May primaries. Only those who
were not registered for the gen
eral election in November and
those who deBire to change their
party enrolment are required to ap
Dear before the officers. This will
pa the only opportunity to register
(before the primary elections.
SON HORN TO WALDORF ASTOR;
HAILS WIFE AS A PATRIOT
Hopes Asquith Will De True to
Country as She Is
FLYMOUTH, Cog.. April 11 In a mes
sago to a friend announcing tho birth of
another son, Watdorf Astor, whose father
Is Baron Astor of Hover, tho American
expatriate, says:
I hope Premier Asquith will do his
duty to the country as thoroughly as
my wife has dono hers to tho nation
as a woman
Tho child Is the third son His mother
was formerly Sirs. Nnnnlo Langhorne
Shaw, of Virginia.
GERMAN TROOPS
WIN FOOTHOLD ON
DEAD JOTS HILL
Occupy Few Trenches on
East Slope of Le
Mort Homme
FIGHT ON 13-MILE FRONT
PAItlS. April 11. Attncks with liquid
fire woro launched by the (lermani last
night on both sides of the Mouso lll'.er In
tho sector of Verdun.
Theso attacks were thrown back with
bloody losies, the Trench War Olllce
stated In nn olficl.il communique todny,
except on the cast slope of I.o Mort
Homme (Dead Mnn's Hill), northwest of
Verdun, where tho Germans wcro ublo to
occupy n few trenches.
OFFICIAL STATHSIKNT.
Tho text of tho official communique fol
lows :
On the left bank of tho Mcuse the
Germans launched yeatcrdny evening
against our positions nt I.o Mort
Homme nn attnek accompanied by tho
throwing of liquid fire. Tho nttack,
which debouched from Corbcux woods,
was driven back by our curtains of
flro and our rlllo fire, except on tho
oast, whero the enemy gained a foot
hold In somo small trench elements
On tho right bank of the Meuso tho
Germans nttempted dining tho night
to drive us from tho trenches which
wo had taken during the recent days
to tho south of th lllago of nouau
mont Their attack hero was likewise
accompanied by tho throwing of liquid
fire It suffered a sanguinary check.
There was a violent bombardment In
the Douaumont-Vaux region. Somo
artillery squalls were noted In tho
Woevre district.
The night was qulot on the rest of
tho front.
This morning ono of our pllota
brought down a. German aeroplane,
. whlclt fell, within-' our " Upcs - near
Ttadonvlller., -Tho two- avlatprs
wero .
WHMUbr-afi, fa"- .'JC51.' l - ' -
MOWED DOWN RY GUNS. ,
RAi-m-in hinssAn wArn feent jtErafnst Dead
Man's Hill following n. violent bombard-
mcnL The Teutons were mowed down by
the machine guns and artillery Hro of the
French, but on tho east side of the hill
they wcro nblo to penetrato a fow of tho
French trenches. South of Dounumont,
north of Verdun, tho Crown Prlnco again
hurled homo of his men against French
positions, but they wero repulsed, suffering
blody losses.
On tho Douaumont-Vaux front tho Ger
mati guns concentrated a terrific Hro
against tho French positions. Fighting
over a 13-mllo front northwest and noith
east of Verdun has now been continuous
for several days, tho Germans driving
home assault nftor assault In an effort to
weaken the French lines.
When tho Teuton soldiery was not being
thrown against tho French lines tho big
Gormnn guns were pounding away, but
the stout-hearted French resistance has
proMd equal to tho emergency. To tho
west of the Mcuse tho Uerm.iu attacks
were made against tho eastern side of the
modified salient which Is represented by
Hill 304.
Despite German claims the French still
hold tho crest of tho much-disputed Dead
Man's Hill. The trenches which the Ger
mans captured on Sunday on Hill 295 aro
nearly halt a mile from tho summit of La
Mort Homme.
French military critics express tho be-
Contlnued on Fate lire, Column Three
Mad Dog Dits Haitian Official
WASHINGTON, April 11 Rear Ad
miral Caperton. commanding the cruiser
squadron In Haitian waters, has tele
graphed that the Minister of Public In
struction and another citizen have been
bitten by a mad dog and were on the way
to New York for treatment. Otherwise
the admiral reported the island was quiet.
OPTICIAN VANISHES;
NOTE THE ONLY CLUE
Police at Work on Foul Play
Theory "Will Return April
A," Says Missive
Oliver C. Hess, a prominent optician at
39 South 17th street, has been missing
Blnca March 31, according- to the police,
who are searching for him In this and
nearby cities today. Fearing he had met
Vlth foul play In his store, which has
bed closed, the police forced an entrance
yeste-day and found a. sign on the door
stating that he would be back on April
4. With the exception of the sign, not the
slightest clue to the man's whereabouts
was found.
Hess was last seen when he left his
apartments, at 1607 Walnut street, on the
morning of March 31. Ha seemed In the
best of spirits. Whether he went to his
store is not known. Hundreds of cus
tomers have culled at the store since, to
find it closed. Although the police are
satisfied that the handwriting of the note
was Hess', they are not Inclined to think
that his absence is a voluntary one. since
his store requires constant attention.
Foul play or possibly murder is the theory
they are working on.
Hess was a man of regular habits and
consequently -when he failed to return Jo
his home March 31, an Investigation was
made. Friends attempted to telephone to
the store, but learned that the phone had
been disconnected. They then visited the
store accompanied by policemen of the
20th and Buttonwood streets station.
Hess Is said to be married, although his
wife was not living with him. It is said
he lives in the vicinity of 18th and North
streets. .According to the description
furnished to. the police. Hess was about it
years old, $ feet 10 Inches high, dark com-r-iucivned.
and klighUy bald.
TAYLOR NAILS
YELLOW YARN
AB0UTJ5UBWAY
Answers Sensational Re
port of Newspaper Prior
to Councils' Meeting
CITY HALL STATION SAFE
"I Take Responsibility for Link
ing Suggestion Against Pub
lication," He Snys
l.x-Trnnlt Director Taylor this after
noon Isiucd a reply to a scns.ittnnnl and
Irresponsible afternoon newspaper report
to the effect that tho Public Ledger had
commissioned an engineer to examine tho
foundations of tho City Hall, to determine
whether It was safe to place the lliond
street subway beneath the building, nnd
that tho Public Ledger had then, na tho
report Imd It. "muzzled Its own expert"
Tho substance of tho reply of Mr. Tay
lor to this publication wns that when the
engineer appeared to make his report ho
nilmlttcd, under questioning by the ox-DI-rector
of tho Transit Department, that It
would not bn dangerous to build tho four
track City Hall section of tho Uroad street
subway with transfer station ns located
and nlso that the undertaking was ontliely
feasible and ilv resolved Itself lulu ,i
question of additional cost. Tho written
report of the engineer, Mr Taylor .nld.
took nn opposite stand from the admis
sions he had made verbally and thus inndo
both opinions nluclcss.
The "tempest In the teapot." published
illSt tirlnr tn thn Mmntlnrr nf r-nn,.ii. ..
1 act on tho transit alid general loan bills.
urmiKiH mo cienr anil direct explanation
from Mr. Taylor before It was tlneo hours
old.
TAYLOIl'S STATII.MHNT.
Mr. Taylor, In his formal statement,
said:
At tho request of the editor of tho
Public Ledger, Mr. Joseph C.iccavajo
(whom 1 had necr heard of before
he called mo up to make the ap
pointment) called at my oillco last
week to show mi an nrtlclo ho had
prepared for publication, with re
lation to the condition of tho founda
tion of tho City Hull.
1 diil not read tho article through,
but questioned him ns to his con
clusions, nnd as to the Information
upon which those conclusions were
based.
After finding from him that ho had
not tho necessary information which
would be required In order to pass
Judgment on cither tho safety or cost
of building tho four-track City Hall
station section of tho Uroad street
Htihway, and that ho had not taken
Into consideration any of tho-operat-Ing
problems Involving the necessity
of locating the fouritracks and trans-
i ,.,,.., , .,.1 .,. ... . ,,e .
tSnetaaWrKw.';:
irticJo wns"im-
woithy of serious consideration,
especially ns the conclusions which ho
set forth woro radically at vnrlduco
with tho conclusions of all of tho en
gineers of national reputation and
standing whom I h.ivo consulted with
relation to this subject.
DISCUSSION OF ARTICLll
Later tho editor of tho Public Led
ger requested mo to meet him to dis
cuss tho conclusions In tho article
which Mr. CaccnnJo had prepared.
When I airied at tho oillco of tho
editor of the Public Ledger Mr. Cac
ciirnjo mi waiting thcio with a. copy
of his aitlcle.
Tho editor of tho Publla Ledger
Contliiuril on I'tice Two, Column Tiirre
MARSHALL AS WILSON'S
RUNNING MATE, LEWIS
TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN
Democratic State Leaders Will
Meet on Thursday to Make
Arrangements for Na
tional Convention
NOT IN ENTIRE HARMONY
WASHINGTON. April 11. Vice Presi
dent Marshall again the running-mate
for President Wilson nnd Senator J.
Hamilton Lewis temporary chairman and
keynoter at the Democratic national con
vention. Is the prospective arrangement,
according to many Democratic leaders
gathering hero for tho meeting of State
chairmen, Thursday.
Senator Lewis nnnounced today talk of
his po&siblo candidacy for the Vice Presi
dency had been dispelled with the deter
mination of Marshall to run again Tha
I'nlted States Senators aro to be elected
in Indiana this fall and the presence of
Marshall's name on tho ticket wilt aid
the party's candidates, it Is believed.
Hence the withdrawal of Lewis.
A recent lslt of National Chairman
William F. McCombs to Washington paved
tha way for Lewis' probable selection us
temporary presiding ottlcer at the St
Louts convention. It was desired to hare
a Western man, and the Senate whip la
said to be satisfactory to tha President,
who will have the final say, all agree.
That there will be strong opposition to
Lewis In the National Committee Is cer
tain. His own State committeeman,
Charles Ooeschensteln, a close friend of
Roger Sullivan, is opposed to Lewis and
will vote against his selection for the
chairmanship, it Is said. Lewis cam
paigned against Sullivan when the latter
ran for the Senate In 1914 and the breach
resulting has not been healed. Senator
Taggart. of Indiana, also a committee
man, while he declines to discuss the
situation, Is understood to oppose Lewis.
BLACKWOOD, N, J., HOME BURNS
Couple Leap From Bungalow Wife
Breaks an Arm
Mr, and Mrs. Eugene Mayer were
asleep when (lames approached their bed
side this morning In a Are whleh destroyed
the bungalow tn Blackwood. N J , where
they lived. When awakened each grabbed
a blanket and wrapped It around their
night clothes, hurried through -the open
window on to the porch and then leaped to
the ground. Mrs. Mayer suffered a broken
arm
Neighbors cared for thero The loa la
estimated at S3000 The fire Uo dam
aged an unoccupied dwelling next door,
owned by Henry Llvermore Fire ap
paratus Arom Blackwood and Almoncssoo
kept thfi blaze from spreading further
The origin ta ualuwwu,
QUICK
MINERS. BY 2 TO 1 VOTE, RATIFY WAGE PACT
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., April 11, The wage ngreement ndoptec'
nt the conference of the officials of the United Mine Workers of
America with representatives of the coal mine operators has been
ratified by a 2 to 1 vote of the miners, Secretary Green, of the Inter
national organization of miners, nnnoitncctt todny. The voto wns:
8-1,408 1-2 for to 12,820 nynlnst.
U. S. SENATE COMMITTEE FAVORS LITERACY TESr
WASHINGTON, April 11. The Scuntc Immigration Committee
todny decided to recommend passage of the Burnett literary test 1m
mlpratlou bill -without amendment ns patt&cd by the notisc.
"DUKE OF GLOUCESTER'S" ESTATE SETTLED
Tho estate of the late William .T. Thompson, known to residents of Gloucester
nnd vicinity ns thu "Duko of aiouctstei," -was settled today after flvo years, dur
ing which time tho Htlgutlon was carried on in courts from Atlantic City to
Oklahoma. A Html mooting of creditors was hold beforo Hcfcrcc In Bankruptcy
S. Conrad Ott In the Camden Courthouse. Henry l Stoeltwoll, attorney for tha
trustees, was allowed $4500 for his services, making his total allowance SIG.OOO.
Henry J. West, trustee In bankruptcy, received a total of $7007.91. Tho handling
of tho estate Involved more than $"GO,000. Thcro was n balanco of $10,622 18 nftor
nil allowances had been deducted. Tills will bo distributed nmonff tho credltoro,
making- a. totnl of dividends paid of -18 per cent.
DENIES FRICTION CAUSED DERBY RESIGNATION
LONDON, April 11. Premier Asquith, speaUfng- In Commons this nftemoon,
denied that friction In the Joint Naval nnd .Military Hoard of Air Service had
caused tho resignations of Lord Derby, tho chairman, and Lord Montague, tho
lco chairman, although ho admitted that differences existed.
ANOTHER CROWN FOR HOIIENZOLLERNS
PARIS, April 11. Prlnco Oscar, tho fifth son of the Kaiser, has been pro
claimed King of Lithuania, says tho Journal. Tho following Item on tho eleva-
j tion of Prlnco Oscar nppenred In tho Journal today: "Leaving; Verdun, the Kaiser,
accompanied by Prince Oscar and Field Marshal von Hln'dcnburg, went to Vilna.
arriving there on April :'. After visiting the tombs or tho old Lithuanian Kings
tho party ascended tho hill whereon stands tho ruin of the ancient Lithuanian
castle and it was tliero that tho petition wus handed to tho Kaiser claiming
restoration of Lithuanian Independence and begging that Oscar bo made King.
After the reading of tho petition crowds gathered fn the chateau and shouted
'I.onp; live King Oscar.' "
NEW ENGLAND MILL WORKERS TO GET INCREASE
BOSTON, April 11. A 5 to 10 per cent, lncrcaso In wngcH for all employes ot
tho woolen and cotton mills of Now England, amountlnc.to more. than $10,000,000.
.u'u.t.-t.0..b2".m.n,lo A. meeting of .tha
'i.oiwrencc. trail Klvcr, Now Hertford and other-mills Is-brfngntlr-hrtHls city today.
It Is nuthoritatlvply stated that tho result or this meeting will bo the announce
ment of a general wago Increase,
5-1,011 IN U. S. NAVY; HIGHEST MARK IN HISTORY
"WASHINGTON, April 11. The enlisted strength of tho United States navy
today reached tho highest mark in Its history. Secretary Daniels announced that
tho addition of EG recruits, enlisted yesterday at different points, brought tho
total enlisted strength of tho navy up to 54,011. This figuro represents an ln
creaso of 0074 over tho enlisted strength of the navy on March 4, 1913, when Sec
retary Daniels took olllce.
BRITISH HOLD UP U. S. SHIPS; REMOVE GERMANS
.MANILA, P. I April 11. Word was received here today that the American
Intel Island schooner Henry S. was held up 10 miles west of Zamboanga by a.
Rrltish auxiliary cruiser and two Gorman steamship oftlcers taken off. Ono was
a resident of Manila and tho other wns a former ofllcor of an Interned German ship.
FRANCE REASSURES HOLLAND
THK IIAGUR, April 11. Tho Dutch Foreign Office was assured today by tho
French Minister that neither Franco nor any of tho other allied nations lias any
Intention of violating Holland's neutrality. Theso assurances were called forth
by tho war preparations of Holland and tho reports from Berlin that ono of th
Entento Powers is prepurlng to strike nt Germany through Holland.
EARTHQUAKE SHOCKS "SOMEWHERE IN SOUTH"
NCW HAVHN, April 11. Earthquake shocks wero recorded on the Yale
seismograph last night, tho records being very pronounced. The location Is esti
mated to be several thousand miles, about duo south. The shocks began at lO'.Es!
reached a maximum at 11 p. m. and ended nt 11:15 p. m.
GEN. DU PONT OPENS CAMPAIGN OFFICE HERE
General T. Coleman du Pont, who today Is directing his campaign before
the Dolawaro Republican State Convention, at Dover, for the Indorsement of hla
home Stato for tho Presidency, lias opened a branch office for his campaign In
this city. The Coleman du Pont Leaguo has established headquarters at 403
Bulletin Building, whence efforts will be directed to obtuin more than Delaware's
blx v ites pledged to Geneinl du Pont.
TWELFTH GERMAN SPY SHOT IN LONDON
LONDON, April 11. Another German spy waa executed Jn tho Tower of
London today. Ho was the twelfth put to death since the war began. The "War
Olllce Issued tho following stutement announcing the execution: "A prisoner
charged with espionage was tried by court-martial on March 20, found guilty and
sentenced to death. The bentence was curried out this morning."
ONE KILLED IN DU PONT POWDER EXPLOSION
SCHANTON, Pa April 11. Ono man was blown to atoms and several were
Injured when tho press mill of tho du Pont Powder Company at du Pont blew up
today. The dead man was David Warner. Tho explosion blew tho mill to pieces
and smashed windows within a radius of seeral hundred yards.
MORE STEAMSHIPS SUNK BY U-ROATS
LONDON, April 11. The British steamship Hllaston has been uunk by n
German submarine. The crew was picked up and landed today. The Ellaston
was unarmed. The lost steamship, a vcskol of 3796 tons, waa last reported as
having sailed from Philadelphia for Queenstown.
LONDON, April 11. A Central News dispatch from Havre says the Nor
wegian steamship Saus has been blown up 15 miles from Cap de la Hee light
ship, but that the crew is safe, having been itjpked up by a fishing boat A dis
patch from Havre on April- 5 reported the sinking by a submarine of the Nor
weglan steamship Baus. This dispatch, said foiir men were mlseingr. Todays
report la probably another version of the sinking" of the same vessel, the names
being blmllar. The Italian steamship lTnlona has, been torpedoed, according to an
announcement by Lloyd's. The Unione plied between Italian and South. American
ports.
CECIL SUGGESTS NEUTRALS TAKE GERMAN SHIPS,
LONDON, April 11. Any proposals put forward & neutral Governments
with tho Idea of obtaining immunity from capture tor vessels owned" In nations
at war with Great Brlti.n and placet! In seivlce by neutrals, will recede ca eful
consideration from, the British Government The War Trade Ministe Lord
Robert Cecil, made this statemei t !n response to a question In the House He
said the Government consldeied the question of employment of vessels bei"iy"S
to boat Ho nations and sheltered in neutral porta was a natter tor neutral Govern
meats, to decide, 9
NEWS
heads" of tho great mill corporation of
&
iWsssWsiliiii)ssfiTn r- ir - fi iTsMfisM
