{..; - , .vp+.5' ''tic .. ,' > } i. to "S ',+ t . 'x w>ii"ca
,;;. " 1 i ? . .5 '' -" I i,{sg p ?"j ." :p . / I di S ' h ?r. ,' .. a.n .n a .e+ . #tw' ^x*O "
fk
zjl
/ Il f " i ! a> bt"h t j"d. . __ ) IE t M A
Fiftieth Day of Battle Sees
Most Furious Attacks
of Invasion. -
FRENCH HOLDING FAST
Front Remains Unbroken De
spite Desperate Assaults
of Crown Prince.
GERMAN LOSSES ARE HEAVY
Tactics of Invaders Are Altered and
Drive Is General Over Sector of
More Than Ten Miles.
By IntemtieaI News 4emi)
Paris, April 10.-This is the fiftieth
day of the battle of Verdun, and the
French troops are with'standing the
fiercest and most persistent onslaught
made by the Germans since the war
began.
The latest assault was delivered by
some 2M.000 men. Still the French
line is not only unbroken but un
changed; still the Germans are bat
tering the outer line of defenses, and
still as far as ever from the only
French positions protecting Verdun
that are really essential.
Tonight's communique announces
that the battle is proceeding with un
abated fury, and with a bombardment
of increasing intensity west of the
Mense.
Fierce German attacks against the
French line south of Forges Brook are
also reported.
mereas Snaer Heavy Lesses.
It is asserted that the Germans suf
fered serious losses between Mort
Hamse and Comleres village without
budging the French defenses.
The Germans yesterday made a gi
gatto effrt. The crown prince this
time altered his tactics, and instead of
deming.a violent local blow. at
t.enhag ale4 as extanmed
wse r eOm naor ot Ate*elt to just
w n b aight bank gf seensa soma
The main attack was delfsared from
Eneaert 'with a division and a half,
the ansti s being Hill No. 3s4. The
Gemans advanced three times to with
in 10 lards of the French lines. each
time being repulsed with fearful losses
that were inflicted chiefly by the
French machine guns.
This was the central attack, but other
attacks combined with it were simul
taneous. On the French left the Ger
mans threw a brigade against the Avo
court Woods, recaptured lately by the
French. They took a small portion of
mes trenches. but were soon driven out.
ebs object of this assault was a flank
movement upon Hill No. 104 from the
west.
othere Attacks Made.
A simultaneous attack was being made
from the north. Meanwhile, another at
tempt was being made on the French
right from Bothincourt towards Mort
Honme (Dead Man) which the Germans
have been battering for weeks.
Combined with this attack was an ef
fort to advance up the Meuse valley by
Cumieras village along the railway on
the flank of Mort Homme, and a few
Incursions also were made across the
River Chamoneuville.
In this third section of the battlefield
the French held their own with the same
indomitable doggedness and repulsed the
Germans with the same slaughter.
The Gernans sent in two fresh divi
sions which fought In vain against the
wall of French defenses and men. Ade
quate tribute cannot be paid to the
French deteodera qi erdun. who, against
strong attacks, never faltered.
Woman Detective
Rescues Lunatic
Leaps Into Icy Waters of River
and Brings Maniac
to Shore.
Hackensack. N. J.. April 10.--Miss
Costance Kopp, girl detective and
nder sheriff, is recovering ,frem a
severe shoek suffered early today when
she jumped into the icy Rackensack
River and rescead a lunatic, who
struggled franteicaly to drown him
salt
Miss Kepp earned her position as
ader eheri by her daring and
shrewdness e a detective. She was
helping berif Rt. Nt. Heath late last
night to take Tesy Mkea, of Wel
litgton, who Was yesterday declared
nene. to the asylum at Morris Plains.
Mrs. Heath assumanied her husband
and he was farther aided by Deputy
Nicholas Dan.
Nesa' the Naskenack jail. Hajnacka
jumped out of the automsobile and
started em a run for the river The
lueatic yelled and plunged into the
river. Miss Kopp dived after him.
Mr t ObjC
sou for $2,ew00
esetal to n1 massessa waM.
New York, April to.-J. P.
Morgan has made another im
portant sale from the great col
lection of art objects gathered
by his father.
All of the tapestries lent to
the Metropolitan Museurm by
the late J. P. Morgan have been
sold to P. W. French & Co. for
a sum somewhat greater than
$2,000,000.
- The sale is by far the most
important that has yet been
made by Mr. Morgan from the
collection which is generally
supposed to have cost the late
Mr. Morgan $7;,000,000.
There are other portions of
the Morgan art treasures on
view in the Metropolitan Mu
seum that may have made a
more popular appeal, but there
was nothing finer or more in
trinsically valuable to art lovers
then the tapestries.
"T. R. ENEMY
OF REPUBLIC"
Barnes Makes Scathing Attack
Upon Colonel and
His Aims.
PUTS FORMER PRESIDENT
-IN CLASS WITH BRYAN
New York Leader Repudiates Story of
His Alleged Pledge of Support
to Mooser's Nomination.
spedial to 'e washington Harald.
New York, April 10.-"'dr. Roosevelt is
an enemy of the American republic, and
the most pernicious influence in this
oluntry upon the publie mind-not even
--Mepting Mr. Bryan."
That is the answer of William Barnea
to the top eiroulated ta Seaton shortly
sier the arrival there of tai. Roosevelt
on Bunday night, to the effect that Mr.
Bunse blieved'that the Ceonel would
be nominated for the Presidency by the
Republicans, and woul support him if
bis belief turned out to be well founded.
Mr. Barnes went farther than that. In
a characteristic statement, he left no
doubt of his belief that Col. Roosevelt
himself had inspired the story that Mr.
Barnes had talked of the Colonel's
chances of being nominated at a recent
gathering of Harvard men. He gave to
reporters the names of men who were
at the dinner, so that his dental of the
Boston story could be confirmed. This
is the statement of Mr. Barnes:
"This year the periodical candidacy of
Mr. Roosevelt for President is based
upon 'Americansim,' and such sporadic
Eupport as he is receiving comes from his
declaration in behalf of proper national
defense.
"Mr. Roosevelt is not responsible for
any natural phenomenon, nor has he a
patent on the obvious. That this country
should be properly defended-as it Is not
defended now-is not open to debate.
"Mr. Roosevelt is an enemy of tho
American republic, and the most per
nicious influence in this country upon
the public mind-not even excepting Mr.
Bryan."
Guacharo Ditched
By Col. Roosevelt
Former President Denies He
Ever Said He Discovered
West Indian Bird.
Special to The Washington Herald.
Boston, April 10.-The Colonel is still
here, and so far as is known, there has
not bben a single politician among the
many persons he has seen since his ar
rival.
It was a busy day for Mr. Roosevelt,
and his most Important utterance was
an announcement that he did not dis
cover the guacharo, that now well-known
West Indian bird. The Colonel, laugh
ing, said: "Those fellows who write the
headlines in the newspapers credited me
with saying I was the discoverer."
Mr. Roosevelt merely umade an Inti
mate study of the bird's habits while in
Trinidad, and found there were two
spegies, one of them resembling a big
whippoorwill and the other being some
thing like the stormy petrel
TELIS OF WOXAN ENGINEER.
Coutess V..tettes Eplamne Apti
tade et Vair Sea Ln. Nesaa.
New York, April 10.-Countesn lla
Feateties, daughter of the late James
B. Haggia, nmillonaire tartman. rturn
sd today on the steamsehip Mexico of
the Ward line from a month's' visit
at Nama. While there, she intset
ed the womeu in preednkpm
suM edd in enrolling' 4.000 of theam.
"The weine. et 3am.a era
sow te repane . the me. Ia iny
Sf Industry," said the counte..
s'eman eve. sealise as -a hstet
Ubng..
Attack on Aug
By "Pennsy" I
Arouses Wi
Usselal to The Washisstew Heald.
New York, April 10,-The attack on the
flag made by James H. Maurer, presi
dent of the Pensylvania State Federa
tion of Labor, in a speech before the
Labor Forum at Washington Irving High
School Sunday night, is to be made the
subject of an oflial investigation, and
may result In the prosecution of the
offender. In the course of his address,
Maurer shouted. "To hell with the Stars
and Stripes."
The initiative in the movement to in
vestigate was taken by Mayor Mitchel,
who sent the following letter to President
Willcox, of the Board of Education, to
night:
"Sir-May I suggest to you that you
cause an Investigation to be made of the
reports in this morning's newspapers of
an attack on the flag, which was made
by a speaker in the Washington Irving
High School last night? It seems to me
unspeakable that there should be heard
in a public school in this city such
Slaughter of D(
To Save St
Epecial to The washinstn Herald.
Chicago, April 10.--A Chicago Daily
News staff correspondent cables today
from Warsaw, Poland (via Amsterdam
and London, April 10: The people of
Warsaw are facing starvation. Only the
German military forces in this great city
are provided with sufficient food. Pub
lie announcement has been made of the
prices charged for the slaughter of dogs
and horses for food purposes. Business
men, professional men. clerks and stu
dents are among those standing in the
long lines waiting for food at the charity
kitchens.
Children suffer the most. and each day
U. S. RECEIVES
BERLIN DENIAL
Teutons Formally Disclaim
Responsibility for Disaster
to Liner Sussex.
WILSON MUST PRESS KAISER
OR THROW DOWN HIS HAND
Count von lernstorff, the German Am
bassador, yesterday communicated to
Secretary of State Lansing Germany's
official disclaimer of responsibility for
the disaster to the cross Channel liner
Sussex.
Despite the evidence which the United
States has collected tending to show that
a submarine attacked this ship. Germany
now considers the incident closed.
Germany's official note, backed by a
determination not to yield to any further
modification of submarine warfare, has at
once made the issue clean cut and well
defined between the two governments.
President Wilson must press his case or
drop it. Germany holds out no pronise
of compromise. Great pressure is already
being exerted upon the President to stand
firm and see the matter through.
hlis advisors, including Secretary Lan
sing, are in favor of basing the adminis
tration's attitude on the accumulative
evidence of German submarine attaoks
which have jeopardized the lives of
Americans on the high seas, and news
conies from authoritative sources that the
likelihood of the president's taking the
matter up with Congress is not remote.
Count von Bernatorif is ready to do his
best to prevent a diplomatic rupture, but
he is not ready to make apologies or fur
ther concessions.
Germany's position, as it is now out
lined to Secretary Lansing, holds that the
United States government has no justifi
cation whatever for taking Germany to
account for the attack on the Sussex or
the attacks on the Manchester Engineer,
the Englishman, the laglo Point, or the
Berwindale.
JUDGE CHIDES WIFE.
Tells Crent's Spouse She Is Well Off
and De't Know it.
New York, April 10.-'W hen a hus
band gives his $100 a week with which
to keep up a three-room apartment
and $35 a week 'pin money,' the wife
is very foolish if she gives up such
a sinecure because of family quar
rels."
This was the opinion of Justlees New
burger today, in dismissing an aetbM
for separation brought by Ms NIti
Harder Rosenbaum agginst (MUat 3m
gene Raven Rosenbaum.
Riotiusg Amey50, Cwn.
Amoy, China, April 1I,-RIots .msrrM
today and an attempt was made to hdab-.
sinate the chief of the military )0elle
Rebels threw nqany bomhe.
New York. A pril 10-Becaus. of the ill
noeof the United- States- alien.e..
the hearing of Ernest Sehiller,. the Ggf 4
man. who held up the Britid giter
utterances as I niteiatand warn asadp.
I quote from Secttm 145, of the Pesal
Law of the !tata f New Teri, sub
lvision 16, which p4vtdes that any per.
son who shall
"'Defy, trample pon. Cast oentempt,
either by words or Mion, upon any such
Flag, standard, col, or ensign, shall be
guilty of a misddmeaor,. anr shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding INS,
or by imprisonment for not more than
thirty days, or both, in the discretion of
the court.'
"If, as a result of this investigation,
you find evidenes to support the state
ments printed in 'his morning's press. I
request you to send such evidence to
the district attorney of this county for
prosecution.
(Signed) "JOHN PURROY MITCHEL.
Mayor."
That a speech containing such a
treasonable utterance should be per
mitted in one of the public schools of
the city gave rise to a storm of indigna
tion today.
gs Fails
arving Warsaw
many of them die for want of proper
rourishment. Funerals are so naumerous
that coffins are carried on the shoulders
)f men instead of in hearses. The facts in
the situation surpass in gravity anything
lescribed in fiction, or imagined by man.
Warsaw is a smileless city.
lermando DeSoto, the American con
sul in Warsaw, has asked me to sug
gest to John F. Smuiski, the Chicago E
banker. that he. through the American
State Department. cause the remainder a
af the money in the consul's hands be
onging to the Warsaw-Polish-Aamerican
Hlospital, to be turned over to the arch
bishop of Warsaw for use in buying food
ror starving children in this city.
.4
WAITE JUST
MISSES DEATH
Auto in Which Heil Riding to
Court NarrbwlyTscspes
Smash-up.
PRISONER IS UNSTRUNG
BY VERY EVENTFUL DAYt
eneial to The Washington herald.
New York, April 10.-One twist of an
automobile's steering wheel was all that 1
prevented District Attorney Swann from a
losing his most interesting prisoner. Dr.
Arthur Warren Waite. today.
While Detectives Cunniff and Gallagher t
were taking Dr. Waite from Bellevue 1
Ihospital to police headquarters in a car t
iriven by Dr. Waite's brother, Frank, a
heavy motor truck, lurching northward
tn Fourth avenue, swerved suddenly and
lust missed slamming the Waite car
against a rapidly moving trolley car.
Frank Waite threw on high speed,
twisted the steering wheel and barely
managed to squirm out of what would
mertainly have been a complete smash
3p.
The near accident, together with the
lervous strain of being photographed.
Anger-printed and measured at polie
eadquartere, and the subsequent ordeal
if being arraigned before Judge Crat, b
n general sessions, had not improved d
Dr. Waite's physIcal condition when heo
was finally transferred to a cell in the
romba.
He was so weak and shaky, so thor
bughly a nervous wreck, that the die
trict attorney thought best to keep a
guard at his cell all tonight. No secret
was made of the district attorney's ap
prehension that Waite might try to kill
imselt.
In the Court of General Sessions Waite
was formally arraigned before Judge
^rain by Assistant District Attorneys
Pooling and Brothers. His counsel,
Walter Rogers Deuel, informed the court
that Waites plea was not guilty. Mr.
Duel asked leave to withdraw the plea
within ten days and to make whatever
notions might be necessary.
BABES IN ?ROIEETS ROLE.
Predicts Roosevelt Would Se Hemi.
Ae at Chiengo.
Boston, Mases., A pril 3.-WIlliam Barnes,
Ir., of New York. three weeks ago pre- I
Bided the nomination of Cot. Theodore
Roosevelt by the Republickn national
tonvention, and, promiSed to support hian
f he became the norainee, according to
I circumstantial story in cercuittion In
(Iarvard circs here tonight,
This prediction and pledge Were raade
li dianer at the Ha~rvard Club in Ne* 1
ak on a Saturday night about three
weeks ago. The occasion wad a reunion
if the Harvard clasS of 1U4 of which
brass was a saber,
5graseus, N. Y.., ApIS i-The safe In
he postoince at Savannah, ai~lae west I
if here, was blows by oggena carty te
kg. . A large autfn of miseF and many
litas were seeured.
Esooin in (Joe Diggd,
ApriI IS.-.A mmateds. was
bor'K p4 i@a ugn
a nom es & . b Wn ts.
- SVL'mbw~aia
Army Base, Colonia Dublan,
Mexico, April 6, by mail to Co
lumbus, N. M., April o.-The
people of the United States are
bireaking their necks to get to
bacco to the men in the trenches
in Europe. Why .not try to re
lieve the strain here by sending
tobacco and papers, and a few
"Missouri meerschaums" to the
men in Mexico?
I don't know whether or not
the censors will permit this sug
gestion to go through, but if
they do they will bestow a last
ing favor upon the tobacco con
sumers, soldier and civilian,
now in the land of the Monte
zumas.
"
FLOODS HALT
GREAT BATTLE
lusuians and Germans on the
Eastern Front Hampered
by High Water.
EUTONS USE BOATS IN
MAKING HEAVY A'TACK
)pponents Devote Energies to Pump
iag Out Trenches Until Halted
by Artillery Fire of Enemy.
ly International News Service.
Petrograd. April 10.-Tremendous floods
long the entire eastern battle front are
ausing great hardship to both armies.
specially the Geripan. The German
renches are flooded for miec. ecording
o information reaching here. The Rus
Ian official statement reports that ef
ort to pump out the water were halted
y artillery ire.
In the region of the vast Pinsk marshes
he Germans attempted to advance in
oats against the Russians' front. They
mere taken under a strong shell fire and
riven back, many of the boats Agine
wracked and their occupants h
The eicial statement fe odl.
"There is sartWlry and lfantry lt'
ng on the Dvina front.
"The Germans atempted to improvi
heir trenches by pumping out the water,
wut our artillery stopped this.
"German aeroplanes dropped bombs or
he stations at Remershof and Drinsk.
"On the Oginski front German aero
lanes bombarded our positions. At Ko
nore, southwest of Pinsk, the Germana
ppsoached our positions. They were
riven off.
"On the strypa we captured an enemy
rench and some prisoners. Enemy coun
ermes were used. In our advance out
roops crossed many crevasses."
This Fire Hero
Soon Forgotten
>700 Raised for Monument
Divided Between Mother
and Red Cross.
(By Iternatioal %es need.e)
Pittsburgh, Pa.. April 10.-That a hero
i soon forgotten was demonstrated here
)day when It was decided to send the
00 raised for a monument over the grave
f Peter Vallono to his aged mother in
taly, who Is lte want. It was said. and
D, instead of a beautiful shaft to Val
she's memory, a small stone marker was
laced at the grave in Calvary Cemetery
iday. Some of the money was sent to
te Italian Red Cross fund.
Vallone lost his life in the box factory
re on the North Side on October S. last,
'hen twelve girls also were killed. It
ran said at the time of the fire that the
tallan had helped many of the girls to
scape.
A monster public funeral was given the
'ro.
Y. W. C. A. TO SEEK irTw3ZiS.
lubeommltte. Will Endeavor to Ia.
terest Taere Who Dropped Out.
The membership committee of the
oung Women's Christian Association at
dinner at headquarters last night or
anised Into subcommittege to induc, old
rembers who have dropped out of the
rganisatlon to renew theIr membeship.
The committee in composed of one
member from each chapter, as follows:
'hevy 'Chase. Miss Catherine Raber'
'akoma Park. Mrs. V. V. Ayres; Mount
Iseasant. Mrs. Henry L. Gosling; Cleve
and Park. Ma'. MitceeM Carroll; Prine
on, Mrs. Ml. J. Bloyd; D~upont. Mia.
Ilisabeth PIerce. and oe representative
rom the T7. W. C. A. offieial organisa
lon.
The Young W'iemen's Christiani Ass.ena.
Ion Orchestra is preparing for emet
ii be given in the meer future. 1ha par
onnet ts: is. bElt- Wilbpt .
cetar; Mis.-Miriam .Si~ Me Edesin
)etang Mi hate. lh, Nisa ram1IS
rwae. Mts - . 1L Upton, Mim V.
'ass. Mims Jpinen stasuaugh and
Is Ruth Capp. The orchestra i. com
eme of eoa viefnta uhe cello.es
russ and traps and iialt.
ILinden. Aprfi a.-The itsht Hten. J.
lordon, K. C., M. P., satone gera
f Ireiedes bee mode judge of the
set J. U. K. Camapbell witt sue
sM.
Itie &
ALONG NAZAS TRAIL
CLOSE BEHIND VILLA
Part of Pershing Forces Sent Over Another
Route to Head Off Bandit Before He
Reaches Vicinty of Durango
PERSHING IS ON ANXIOUS SEAT
Commander of Expeditionary Forces Said to Be Eagerly
Awaiting Authority to Use Railroads-Also
Wants Further Reinforcements.
By H. H. STANSBURY.
latsmatioal N' ewe Beree
El Paso, Tex., April to.-Pancho Villa, the hunted chieftain of the
political malcontents in Northern Mexico, is driving along the Nazas trail
tonight, fully sixty miles south of Parral. A part of his forces have been
sent over a more direct route in the direction of Durango City.
It is Villa's purpose to go himself to the immediate vicinity of Tor
reon. There he expects to meet Canuto Reyes. After acquiring this force,
he will proceed in the direction of the capital of Durango to enlist the
support of the Arrieta brothers.
This is the information obtained by Senator . B. Fall here today.
His news resources are considered better than those of any military or
civil officer now on the border.
Pershiag Awaits Orders.
CARRANZA NOT Gen. John J. Pershing. commander
the United States expeditionary forces, is
CHASING VILLA -t "--^-nt-ni. - short distance from
Cusihuiriachic. fifty miles wSr-t of r'hi
huahua City. on the northwestern rail
Senator Fall Says First Chief's road. He is .aid to be wait.. for woM
Troops Are Not Co-operat- from Gen. Funston as to whether Wash
. . ingt on will authorize support of a enntin
ing in Pursuit of Bandit. ued .a n to the .outhward
-- It is not denied in any quarter that the
CARRANZISTAS REFUSED TO I support requested invo.ea the use or th.
STRIKE AT BAND, HE WRITES Mexican railroads and re-enforcement.
It is also made obvious b' the rnhIta
Declafs Ruler Has Not Control of officials that to coinuue the campa:
Mexico and Is Cenerally Disliked, f without this support would involi e to'
Calls Border De tenues Weak. fate of the finest body of Uneted Stat.e
truo" ever art an asy mission.
A startling recha] of ontdite- steng The adv eXpky dama which et
the Moama mv hersws, ttk ~r b j Pwa Suniday inraing m rpies ans
. P , 3 Mezier t net ftr furnished by loyal trten
Gallinger, Republican leader of the Sen
ate, was made public 'esterday by Mr. miners are still in pursuit. The d -
Gallinger after a conference with hie vantages under which they are opr, at 'i
Republican colleagues. Senator Fall's however, have placed them so fr to the
letter was dated April t. and supple- rear that they can neither s, V.sli
mented information he has sent from camp fires et night nor emeli hue duet b
time to time by wire. The Senator had day. Tlay ate entirely out f ine-h u
just returned to El Paso. after an auto- field headluarters, accord.ng to Gen
mobile trip along the international boun- l'crshings own report,
dary from El Paso to Nogales. Arix., a Tilia Assured ef Help.
distance of 450 miles. Much of the in- At Durango Villa is cxpected to have
formation he sent was based on personal little difficulty in obtainimg the support
observation. of Arrieta brothers They have pia' e,
The points that stand out in the recital hot and cold with Carranra. They hars
as Impressive are the suggested made- never acknowledlged the authority of the
quacy of our defenses on the border, the "First Chief" to dictate to them about
proved failure of Carrahaa troops to co- the intenal affairs of Durango. As a re
operate for the capture of Villa when be: suit they have built up a [tile mor
was fleeing from Columbus after his band arch' of their own to which te inhabi
lhad raided the town. the interference
with the line of communicmtion between cause of the presence of a large forse of
Gen. Funaton and the expeditionary force well-armed men.
In Mexico, and the lack of control exer- Villa is liked by both of the Arrietas
cised by Gen. Carranza o'er Mexico. because he never interfered with their
Carrmaaistas laeetive. control in Durango. Urino Arrieta
Senator Fall writes that Villa was lo- was at one time a Villa general
cated by Raymond Reyes while the ban- What this new situation portends can
dit chief was retreating aftaq his Colum- not be foretold. It certainly means that
bus raid. Villa then being within fiv an entirety new plan of campaign must
miles of 70 Carranza soldiers. Senator be foltowed if the troops remain In Mex
Fall says that Reyes reported the prox- le. ller- the inquiry which has been
imity of Villa to the Carranza leaders 1 turned In at Washington. It in reliabl'
and pleaded with them to accompany himn stated here that the modification re
to attack Villa's Wi00 men. queted some days ago by Carrauza in
"The Carranistas refused. and Villa the roosed proetocoi between the
continued his retreat south:" writes Sen- United States sid the de facto govern
men was an outright demand that the
CONTIN'EDKi oN PAGE Two.
____________________AGE___T ___. expeditior. atop when the southern
W m . Thaw W ingsof Chhau was rh
aaa O Iusaccur ate information on this sub
Win.Tha W i gs ject was the only foundation for there
Germ an A irm an port sent out by cerin corrpondes
that Cerransa would resist any effort to
invade Mexico sooth of Chihuahua.
Pittsburgher with French Avi- I to Use alwuads.
/ It is the hope of every army- man mnd
ation Corps Brings.Down every intelligent giI peaty owner In
First Victim.Northern Mexico t the state Depart
First Victim.meat wilanswer the Carrazia memosi
andum by makin ge o the railroad.
Si eSa Cabl to wafun lSwa adoptn the vigswm tactics rsecemaxy
Paris, April 8 - (Delayed.) - William I. th sromm of the capture of Villa.
Thaw, of Pittsburgh. one of the Ameri- It is patated Out that Villa has moved
eaa volunteer aviators witih the French south more than Il miles without sen
army, who was seat to Verun at his I
lows request a fortnight ago. has sue- rzasaI nfc ehsntbe
omad in 'bringing down a German aero- aael sitd h nyfgth a
Thaw was In the air an average of cmpeayroigtegrio on
hens hours daily for eleven days, and mnidbGe. a'.
made Ave flights in two days. On hid tI hw 15 hbmc pern
last day out he feisd a Gemaa Imachine, ftthta a)am'selyirfu
which, however. dropped behind the Ger-,lgtointhessoteraridss
man lines.ale eeshsfrVlacep.
Hie sighted another enemay aeeplme,
bat. bawltag ewbanstid i machi n uaU AANX~
asmmU be weasaea to Cate ahase.
Thaw says the air aemi Verige is o.Cu 1heeo stw s
sterk Tisits Km. Aster. o mre a oult oldie
loam. April 1.-.eMr. Wateeftht oda a krm roett
Aster, daugineor-la-taw of naren Autrji costeAlni ca itb
of liever. fermerly -WitNlem WaMSgfeummtl
Aster of New Yora. sawe birth tmy 1.X aly.Peieto h
toe a soe. A.ah rtn o h nct
This la theg fouth grandchid febb the e fth ih a nt~dbh
self-eapastited New Teak tsoh t- ~aaae httecu ead i
11emalre Waldorf Assr, ub. a ee'cusa ihypbi prtd a
jile Teas 1M ~e ss ahews W at.. thinei tation u poreeds can
14 3lt* I~rc o Iesothe inqir w ich h as ee
tune.i a'asinto, tisretal
