WEATHER
Arizona Tuesday un
settled with rain north
and central portions;
colder Tuesday.
NfW YORK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
April 5, 26.31
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 18, NO. 272.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, APRIL 11, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
7n I
him
3 i
BE FACTO OFFICIALS DESIROUS OF If VILA PjjRSUT FROM IlK ME
mm H hH a KhNhM : :Pumh rantf mduntu wntn;: -ft HHP Y
I Illlllll II llUllliei ULIILIIIIL. I
waaaiaaaaaa w mmmm m m m - - - -
CROSSES BORDER AND WILL
General Inez Salazar, formerly Connected with Huerta Re
gime, Goes Over Chihuahu a Border. Gavira, at Juarez,
Says He Thinks De Facto Troops Can Now Handle the
Situation and Take Care of Villa. Washington Silent
EL PASO, April 10. General Gavira, Carranza commander at Juarez, to
night ennounced that the forces of the de facto government were in a posi
tion to !al:e immediate control of the Villa situation if the American troops
withdrew.
Ceneral Gavira's statement was made in connection with the announce
ment of Gen. Scott, chief of staff of the American army, that the expedi
tionary object would be considered ac complished when Villa's bands were
dispersed or "as soon as the troops of the de facto government are able to
relieve them of the work.7
"We have more men than enough now," said General Gavira. "If we
wero able to overcon e Villa when he. bad 70.000 men. had cannon and plenty
cf supplies, we ought to be able to dis pese of him now when his numbers
have dwindled down to a few detachments. It is a big territory to operate
in and a single man has more chance to escape and hide than a large foreei
oould have. However, on all accounts of Villa we think he will be taken. If
not. it is hardly likely that without proper surgical care he will not survive
for long." "
The arrival of General Bertani in Juarez gave renewed force to the re
ports that General Gavira has been ordered to. the field. Nothing was learn
ed of the whereabouts of General Petrcnillo Hernandez, who was said to
have been named as successor to Gen ernl Gavira and who was expected to
rwh Juarez today.
General Gavira said today that thajacy against American neutrality and
' trials of the men alleged to be plot-1 perjury. In each case he succeeded
tine for Diaz were in progress and that i in having his client acquitted. After
the deaih sentence -would probably be
passed on three or Tour. Interest in
the pursuit of Villa and the diplomatic
situation at Washington was largely
diverted today, a,, far as the border
was concerned to the reported raining
of a new revolutionary standard by
General Inez Salazar. General Sala
zar. who has been living here, was one
cf the best known of the Huerta gen
erals. He is believed to have crossed
th border near Ojinaga after issuing
a statement denouncing Carranza for
bringing about "the invasion" of Mex
ico by Americans and declaring his in
tention to defend the "sacred soil of
Ilia native land." .
Shlazar enjoys the reputation of be
ing one of the ablest of the Mexican
gcneials. It was reported here today
vy me.i wio nave ueen ciose.y asu-
Hated with him. that he intends to de-
clare for Felix Diaz.
It is known that
up to a snort time ago, salazar was in
fie greatest poverty. He complained
bitterly that on account of his "perse-
K . . ,r. h .. n .. r I
.m.ui. n v,;.o ..t- -q "" .
to live on the chanty of friends. A'
.ki- .,
however, he received a large sum of
money and repaid several debts he had
incurred.
here who wer on intimate terms with
the vanished general, who was willing
lc admit individual Americans to his
friendship while never disguising his
hostility toward the American govern
ment. These men maintain that Sala
zar has a very large following in North
em Chihuahua and that hundreds, if
not thousands of the Carranza soldiers
who fought under him in previous
"campaigns, will gladly follow their
old leader if he summons them.
A story was current here tonight that
Salazar was in biding in Juarez but as
this was hardly possible without the
connivance of the Carranza officials, it
was not generally credited.
Reports received here by American
mining concerns state that there has
been extensive looting of stores and
warehouses in Parral and in towns in
that district. Some damage is said to
have been done to American property
but its extent is not known. The loot
ing is said to have been the result of
the desperate condition of the people,
who are almost destitute of food and
clotning. A telegram was sent from
here today to Governor Enriquez, gov
ernor of Chihuahua, asking for protec
tion for American interests.
LAWYER INVOLVED IN ESCAPE
EL PASO. April 10 Elfego Baca,
one ot the best known lawyers in the
southwest, formerly district attorney
in Socorro, N. M., and prominent in
Republican politics in that state, was
arrested here tonight in connection
with the flight over the border of Gen
eral Salazar yesterday.
Eight Mexicans, all of whom have
played important parts in Mexicans
politics at one time or another, were
arrested at the same time. Among
hem were General Ignacio Morelos
Zaragoza, who wa. in command at
Tampico under Huerta when the ar
rest of American marines precipitated
the crisis which lead to the occupa
tion of Vera Cruz and General Marce
In Careveo. a former lieutenant of
Orosco. All eight are said to have
been w orking in the interests of Felix
Diaz, a fact which supports the theory
that Salazar proposes to declare for
ttint leader.
Bars has repreened Salazar at the
latter's trials for gun-running conspir-,
E FOR FELIX DIAZ
his first arrest, Salazar escaped from
j the jail in Albuquerque and made an
abortive attempt to start a revolution
in Sonora. Baca was indicted as an
jacconrplice in the escape but was ac
quitted.
CONDITIONS IMPROVED.
WASHINGTON, April 10. Soih a
marked improvement in conditions
along the Mexican border has been
reported by General Funston that the
War Department is
now considering
drawing upon some of the troops
stationed in Texas to strengthen the"
ever-lengthening lines of coiumunica- '.of undoubted reliability indicated that f stuffs duty amendment declared he
tion of the expedition pursuing Villa, the troops at the expeditionary base would submit it to a vote without
Many alarming rumors have been dis-; have received orders based on the pos- argument. Senator Simmons on learn
posed of and the border situation gen-' sibility of an attack by roaming bands that, the duty proposed was similar to
erally is said to be quieter than here-( unattached to any Mexican faction up- those in the Hill Bill pending in the
I tofore, but the plan is not to distrubon the American line of communica-; House, declared they would approx-
tne Barrisons or patrols in New Mex
r . , ,,,.
Army officials stated tonight that
from now on jDfantry would be used
to reinforme the communication
ijnes. the cavalry being kept at the
.... . . .
iront ior me actual worn or running
down the outlaws. A part of the
ie.n,-ior.n uuainry. negroes, irom
Del Rio, Texas, at the request of
local authorities, after one soldier bad
been killed by a ranger who was at
tempting to arrest him, already has
been ordered into New Mexico. Evi
dence continues to accumulate today
to refute rumors of an impending
withdrawal of the American expedi
tion. Soon after it became known
that additional troops were to be sent
across the border the War Depart
ment announced the purchase of six
large tank motor trucks to replace
similar ones carrying gasoline for
Gen. Pershing's supply motors and
aeroplanes.
State Department dispatches indi-
cate that the Carranza authorities arelouet fears expressed and pointed out
viewing with some anxiety the con
tinued presence of American troops
in Mexico and are inclined to be
lieve that the object of the expedition
has been accomplished in the dispers
al of Villa's main column. It is au
(Continued on Page 6)
SENATOR FALL TELLS REPUBLICAN
FRIENDS OF
socialists tecum
PHOENIX. April 10. Another Hunt
club was formed here today when
socialists and labor leaders met in a
mass meeting and formed the Work
ingmen's Political club. The club has
for its 'sole object the re-election of
Gov. Hunt. Similar clubs have been
formed among the laborers at Miami,
Clifton, Jerome and at other points In
the state. The movement to organize
clubs to work for the re-election of
Hunt originated with a group of the
governor's socialist friends at Miami,
who are very anxious to secure the
governor's endorsement of Ed Grant,
candidate for mine inspector on the
democratic ticket.
CALUMET. Mich., April 10.
Owing to increased demand
for copper and offers of a prem
ium for Immediate delivery, t lie
Calumet and Hecla Mining Co.,
is shipping 50.000 pounds east
by express. This is tlie first
express shipment of any size
ever made from the district. It
is understood the price paid
is above 2S cents per pound.
More Soldiers Are On Duty at
New Mexico Border Point
Than at Any Time Since the
Night of Villa's Raid.
1
(Bv Review Leased Wu-e.)
COLUMBUS, N. M.. April 10 More
soldiers are on guard duty in Colum
bus tonight than on any night since
the town was raided by Villa bandits
a month ago. Heavily armed soldiers
patrol the streets and the military res
ervation, while'one company of infan
try has been ordered to sleep In their
clothing and with their arms al their
sides and instructions have been is
sued to keep the gun rack3 unlocked.
The guards at the road cro?sing ih
linp and at the border gate, three
miles south, and at Gibson's Ranch 15
m ilea west, the point at whicii the sup
ply trains cross the international line,
were increased tonight.
No official explanation was made of
the unusual activity on the part of the
military, but information from a source
tion between Columbus and Casas
Grandes.
Numerous rumors, none of which
could be confirmed, were current in (
the streets of Columbus tonight. Many
! Of these undoubtedly had their basis
,v. ,i,, r-.., i-.,
j8trenKtn of wnich is variousl y estimat-
ed at fronl 3000 to 8000. are Stationed
in strategic positions along the motor
truck trail taken by American supply
trains. These troops, under the com
mand of General P. Elias Calles, mili
tary governor of Sonora. are engaged
in guarding the Oaxaca-Carrets pass
on me sierra Maares to prevent tne
possibility of Villa's escape by doub
ling on his trail.
The Carranza troops haVe been mov
ed eastward from Sonora in the last
few days after being concentrated at
Fronteras, on the railroad line from
Douglas to Nacozari an dat Morelos,
about twenty miles east of Fronteras.
Military authorities endeavored to
that steps are being taken merely be
cause of the large amount of valuable
military property concentrated here.
It was asserted further that attempts
are being made to prevent thefts by
roaming and irresponsible Americans
or Mexicans.
(By Review Leased Wire ,
WASHINGTON.. April 10. Senator
Fall of New Mexico, who at the re-
GUARDINCREASED
AT COHIS
MILITARY
BASE
HIS BORDER PROBE
quest of Republican senators went tolsidered today related to the duties of
the border immediately after Villa's ; the chief of operations. While final de
raid on Columbus to investigate gen- i cision was not reached, the committee
eral conditions said in a letter that I men were inclined to write into the
Carranza troops were not cooperating! law most of the powers now conferred
with the American expedition in any on departmental olan. Secretary Dan-w-ay,
ot making any attempt to attack I iels has approved the suggestion thnt
Villa. He complained that the border I the rank and pay of a full admiral be
patrol was not being maintained in
adequate force, and said an unguard
ed gap of nine miles had made the
Columbus raid possible.
The letter was written In El Paso,
April 4, and said that unless more
use of the Mc-xican railways were
made possible the American troops
must be withdrawn and said reliable
Information had reached the Senator
Villa had not been wounded.
"The Mexicans" said the letter.
have made no attempt to attaack
Villa at all. and have not in anv wavi
been co-operating with our forces or
attempting to cheek Villa's retreat or
to assist in his capture. On his re-
(Continued on page 7)
BILL LIKELY
n
E
ILI
Amendment to Present Law,
Leaving Tariff on Sugar,
Will Have Support of Sen
ate.
(By Review Leaced Wire.)
THE DAY IN CONGKKSS:
Senate: Met at 11 a. 111.
Debate was begun on resolution
to repeal free sugar clause of the
tariff. Investigation was resumed
in to alleged sisal monopoly be
fore a general subcommittee.
Judiciary committee considered
subcommittee report recommend
ing confirmation of Louis D.
Brandeis to the Supreme court.
HOUSE: Met at 11 a. m.
Discussion of river3 and harbors
bill continued. U. S. AUoruey
Marshall appeared before a se
lection committee to testify con
cerning impeachment proceedings
against him.
SENATE:
Reject 41 to .25, Senator Lodge's
amendment to sugar repeal bill
providing for duty on coal tar dye
imports.
Adjourned at 5:15- p. m. to 11
a. m. Tuesday.
HOUSE:
Adjourned at 6:40 to 11 a. m.
Tuesday.
SUGAR MEASURE.
WASHINGTON, April 10. The sen
ate made rapid progress on the su
gar measure, which is a substitute for
the House resolution repealing the
free sugar provision of the present
tariff law. and was able to pass it
when Senator Works of t altfornia an
ounced that he wished to offer an
amendment which would not be ready
until tomorrow. Under an agreement
reached Friday a final vote will be
taken before adjournment tomorrow.
Senator Lodge in offering his dye
: iniate a per cent, ana urged mat me
! amendment be defeated, Senator I n
derwood. author of the present tariff
law, explained that the SO per cent
dutv now imposed on dye stuffs had
existed since enactment of the Ding'
ley by acquiescence of the dye manu
facturers, textile manufacturers, chief
purchasers of dyes, he said, had urg
ed that the duty be lowered instead
of increased.
Senator Smoot and Senator Bran
degec urged the passage of the bill
the former asserting that the labor
cost of German manufactured dyes
j was not more than one-fourth the cost
in the United States. Tim Germans
also he said, had advanced many pro
cesses by which they could make dyes
at less cost.
AMENDMENT DEFEATED
WASHINGTON, April 10 The Sen-
late today rejected 41 to 25 an
amendment by Senator Lodge to In
clude a tariff on coal tar dyes in the
hill providing for the retention of the
presetn tariff of a cent a pound on
gar until 1920. Senator Norris of Ne
liraska was the only Republican voting
with the Democrats against the a
mendment. NAVAL BILL UP.
WASHINGTON. April 10. Drafting
of the 1917 naval appropriation bill
with which the administration will
launch its five year increase program
was under taken today by the. appro
priation sub-committee of the naval
committee.
Various legislative provisions in the
bill were discussed and a tentative
agreement was reached on a few
items. The committee decided, how
evre, that no statement of its ac-
Hons should he made public until its
report had been completed.
The most important question con
provided during the tenure of office
for any official detailed as chief of
operations. The law would provide
that the officer rank next to Admiral
Dewey, the admiral of the navy being
senior to the three fleet admirals. The
committee is said to have agreed upon
this plan.
BRITISH REVERSED
LONDON. An il 10 Lieut. Gen. Sir
Percy Lake, commanding the British
forces in Mennotamia. renorts that
thre British attacks on the Turkish
position at Sannsvyat on the Tieri
river jiiFt below Knt-el-Amara failed
to break through the Turkish lines.
ntuoi
1
MrjiPimrhi in innm iinirii .Wnniin nrm u
TRUCK PLUNGES
INTO DEEP -
j Eiting Brothers' Auto Truck
Goes Over Bank, Opposite
custom Mouse, four Bad
ly Hurt; None Seriously.
them seriously, yesterday afternoon
when the big motor truck on which
they were riding swerved off the
Naco road opposite the old customs
house and plunged headlong into the
gulch fifteen feet below.. The inlured
are Mrs. Fred Marquette. John Kiting
of the Eiting Brothers Transfer com
pany. Amel Myer and J. Moreno, both ;
enioloyes of Eiting's.
The truck was entering Bisbee from
arrpu toaueu infill n ull nousenoiu
effects of Mrs. Marquette. At the in
stant of passing a wagon approach
ing from the other direction, a Ford
bore down between the vehicles, the
wheels of the two machines became
interlocked and the big car fairly
hurtled over the edge o fthe bridge
into the stream below.
All four of the occupants were car
ried down with the wreckage and all
excepting Mrs. Marquette were buried
deep under the furniture.
She extri-
cated herself Immediately and al
though slightly injured about the wrist
persisted in aiding the rescuers until
all were recovered. At the C. A.
hospital where the injured were tak
en, it was announced last nfg't that
all. would recover. Amel Myer, the
most seriously injured suffered a dou
ble fracture of his left arm and lace
rations' about the head. Moreno had
bruises about the head and two ribs
were fractured. Eiting, for whom
fears were felt at first lest he he in
jured internally, escaped an inconse
quential bruise about the stomach,
and Mrs. Marquette's wrist was
slightly sprained.
J. R. Zumalt, the driver of the Ford,
whose car barely averted follov.ing
the path of the truck was at a loss to
explain the mishap last night, further
than that his stealing knuckle sud
denly snapped during the 'ollision.
Whether any one was at fault seemed
an open question about which there
was much confusion.
of the first to join in the rescue work
land offered himself to the police im-1
mediately aiterwara. out so tar as
known no complaint had been content-1
plated against him. j
Bystanders first in the rescue work I
seemed certain fatalities to one orj
0
more must have resulted and were the secretary for less than five min
dumfounded when they learned of the utes. It was learned that Mr. Lan
injured ones miraculous escape. Both j sing was not in a position to enter a
cars were Daaiy wrecxea ny tne coins-1
ion.
FLOOD DANGER PAST.
ST. PAUL, April 10. Danger from
the flood waters of the Mississippi
River is believed to be past here.
Since the breaking of an ice jam at
Elk River early Saturday morning
which brought the water to the forty
foot mark, the river has gone down
three feet. Unless heavy rains swell
the volume of water In the river with
in the coming week, it is believed that
all danger from floods will hate
passed.
FIGHT TO DRAW.
DENVER, Colo.. April 10. Bennie
Chavez, of Trinidad, Colo., and Chick
Hayes, of Indianapolis, fought a fif
teen round draw here tonight. They
are featherweights.
i
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. April 10. The nav
al league of the United States met
here today for its eleventh annual con
vention, with three proposals to ad
vance in its advocacy of more com
plete national preparedness creation
of a national defense commission, a
navy general staff and a progressive
naval program.
Speakers included men prominent
throughout the country. Attacks or
made on Henry Ford for published
statements in his anli preparedness
campaign and a committee was named
to draft a statement replying to his
charges.
Mr. Albert Bushnell Hart, professor
of political economy at Harvard, told
the convention that Increasing respon
sibilities of the United States in Latin
America demanded a powerlul navy
for fioforcenient of tbe Monro,, Doc.
'fine. Tbe United Slates, he declared,
euld not keep its pledge to preserve
'nc P'0!etit territorial relations of the
(Continued on Tage S)
BENEVOLENT SUPERINTENDENCE
IS PR9PHFSIED FOR MEXICO
WAUKEEGAN. Ills.. April 10.
-The trial of Will H. Orpet.
charged with the murder of
.Marion Lambert, was set for
May 13, at Waukecgan, Illinois
today. The defend contended
for a later date as University of
Wisconsin siudents are wanted
as witnesses and the school
docs not close till June 21.
t
4:
UNITED STATES
T
TO DOUBT
t
; Answer from Germany, Dis-
claiming Responsibility Due
I.
Due Today. Evidence In
criminates Teutons.
(Bv Review Leased Wire )
WASHINGTON. April 10. Investi
gation of recent attacks on unarmed
merchant vessels, carrying Americans
has developed such a convincing array
of evidence pointing to illegal sub-
j marine operations that the United
States is nearly forced to the con
elusion that Germany torpedoed the
English channel steamer, Sussex, and
is disclaiming hlnme for attacks on
other ships inquired about by Ameri
can Ambassador Gerard. The news
that Gerard would be handed the dis
claimer nas been forecast in press re -
ports and today s announcement mat
he would receive the note tomorrow
did not cause surprise.
President Wilson and Secretary
Lansing still are waiting communica
tion from Gerard for information.
Much importance is attached to affi
davits and evidence gathered by the
American embassy at Paris and due to
reach .New York Thursday. It was
learned today, too, that Mr. Lansing is
awaiting the outcome of an inquiry
at Paris aliout the case of the liner
Patria, which was torpedoed some tiuie
ago.
Probably the German note and all
the data at the disposal of the United
cabinet meeting.
Count von Bernstorff. the German
ambassador, called at the State de
partment late today to discuss the
situation with Secretary Lansing and
gain information for his government.
J His visit was fruitless. He was with
discussion at the present time.
The ambassador will call again when
the note has been rereived.
REPLY IS READY.
BERLIN, April 10. via London
April 10. The German note in re
sponse to inquiries of the American
government regarding the channel
steamer Sussex and the steamers Eng
lishman. Manchester, Engineer, Eagle
Point and Berwindvale will be trans
mitted to Uie American embassy to
night or Tuesday morning.
The note declares, as previou-dy ca
bled, that the reports of the comman
ders of submarines which might have
lieen Involved in an attack on the Sus
sex make it absolutely certain that
she was not torpedoed by a German
torpedo.
Likewise. Germany denies responsi
bility for the sinking of the other
steamer.
YOUNG MAN CONFESSES
TO ROBBERY OF TRAIN
OC.DEN. Utah. April. 10 Walter
Dailey, the young man who confessed
to having been implicated with two
others in the holdup of Oregon Short
Line train No. 1, at Roy. Utah. March
19. arrhed here today in chariie ol
Postofnee Inspector M. M. Warren and
Special Agent Jos. Jones of the Short
Line company. Dailey was later tak
en to Hoy. where, in company witn
Sheriff T. A. Devine and Deputy J. U
Hobsnn of Ogden and the Laramie of
ficials, a careful inspection of the
ground was marie.
Deputy Hobsnn telephoned Ogdon
1st" this afternoon tUat Dailey ap
peared to ba very familiar with the
locality and some of the Seers be
lieve him to be the risbt man. If this
is proven, the Laramie officials will
claim the combined reward of 12,000.
FORCED
GERMANY
IS MADE 10
111
Premier Herbert Asquith, at
Governmental Banquet,
Picks Recent Talk of Ger
man Chancellor to Pieces.
BELGIUM AND POLAND
CITED AS EXAMPLES
Calls Germany to Account for
the Manner in Which It Has
Attempted to Prussianize
Countries it Has Taken.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONDON, April 10. On tte occa
sion of a governmental banquet to
chancellors, deputies and attaches.
Premier Asquith took the opportunity
to reply to the speecn recently de
livered in the Reichstag by the Im
perial German Chancellor, Dr. Von
Bethmaiin-Ilollweg. Those present in
cluded Earl Dt-rby, the Marquise of
Landsdowne. Sir Edward Grey, Sir
Walter -Runcinia.1. Lewis Harcourt.
1 Viscount B; yce. A
J. Balfour ami
i Lorj Robert Cecil
The premier. 1
! prt,Posing the toast. "Our Guests", re
ferred to von Bithmamfs f laim to the
readiness on the part of Germany to
negotiate peace, and declared:
"The German chancellor wants u
to assume the attitude of a defeated1,
to a victoiious adversary. Biit we
are not goin? to be defeated.
"The chancellor, firt. misquoted my
language then proceeds to disturb its
ocvious meaning, anil intention. Great
Britain am! France entered the war
not to strangle Germany or wipe her
off the map of Europe; not to destroy
or mutiliate her national life: cer
'.ainly net to Interfere with, to us
the chancellor's language, the free
existance of her poacetul endeavors.
As a result of the war. we in
tend to establish the principle th:t
international pi ace must be handled
by free nations on equal terms be
tween tree peoples and that we shall
no longer be hampered by the over
mastering dictation of a government
controlled by a military caste. That
is what I mean by the destruction of
the military domination of Prussia
nothing more, but nothing less."
Referring to the fate of Serbia and
Montenegro the premier said: "We
are in the struggle, the champions not
only of trei'ty rights but of the in
dependence and freedom of weaker
countries and free evolution along the
lines of their mother toqgue and na
tional individuality. Apparently their
principle is to be applied. I suppose,
on aDDroved Prussian lines both In
Poland and Belgium."
Contending that the Poles have hsil
an illuminating experience of the Ger
man ideas of a free evolution of thit.
kind. Mr. Asquith continued:
"The attempt to Germanize Poland
has been for the last 20 years at one
the strenuous purpose and colossal
failure of Prussian domestic policy.
Nobody knows that better than the
chancellor, for he lias been one o( it
personal instruments. It Is with this
record that the chancellor sheds tears
over the fate of what he calls the
long oppressed Flemish race. I won
der what the Flemish race itself
thinks of the prospect of the chancel
lor opening the door.
"The chancellor says that after the
war there must be a new Belgium,
which must not be a Franco-English
vassal, but in whose h'ce will be the
German, who burned their churches.
illageil their towns, trampled their
berties, the collaboration of neish-
bors.
"My answer is a very simple one.
The allies desire and are determined
tn see once acain th old Belgium.
She must not be allowed to suffer
permanently, the wicked invasion of
her redeamors.
"The allies are prepared to justly
the lernlitv of all the measures they
have taken as covered bv the prin
ciples and snirit of international law
annlied to the developments of mod
ern war. These have been carried out
with the strictest regard to humanit.
and we are not aware of a single in
stance of a neutral life having been
lot bv reason of the allies' blockade.
Uem-ir'.-in'! ht th Gert-a camp
aign nrxtnot m-T--hrt-tirr had devel-on-d
to hefnr th-ir der in cenn
ril of March. 11.V shown br the
inM" of the Dutch s:tamer 'aria
'nil the Am,e1can Miline vessel W.
P. Fry. and Germanv's declaration of
(Vontinnued from paee 3)
HOLLwEGS
SPEECH
