I So fin- P 3Ct Lou,s delivery L J ' 1L " Jl JV 9 (T S WW T "r K Vr WEATHER-Utah: Rain Tonight 'KH
VSShl Snt,lm' electrolytic J- ' J 7 L- and Wednesday; Colder Wednesday . KIB
FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. UH
Fortyilxth Year No. 87. Price Five Cents. GGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, APRIL 11, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Poatoffice, Ogden,' Utah. ' jVI
j General Francisco Villa Is Reported Dead II
and Buried; Aviator Scouting for Grave H
. V lll
I AERO CORPS LIEUTENANTS BRING
NEWS FROM MEXICO TO BORDER
Story of Bandit Chiefs Death Current Among Natives Who
Claim Blood Poisoning Resulted From Shots Through
Stomach and Legs Military Authorities Believe
Story May Be Mexican Ruse to Deceive Ameri-
. cans Aviator Sent to Scout for Grave
Pershing's Cavalrymen Have Entire-
I ly Surrounded the Villista De
tachment Said to Have
Been Carrying Villa.
.
San Antonio, Texas, April 1 1 . General Pershing is ex
pected to reach Satevo, fort' miles south of Chihuahua, to
night, according to a report brought to General Funston today
1 by Lieutenants Dargue and Gorrell, who arrived by aeroplane
at Columbus today.
c
Queretaro, Mexico, April 1 1 . The war department an
nounced today it has reason to believe Francisco Villa has been
killed in action and that searching parties have been sent out to
j find his body.
i Columbus, N. M., April 11. The village of Santa
Rosalia, about 60 miles northeast of Parral, was attacked and
sacked by about 1 00 Villistas two days ago, according to re-
ports received by General Pershing and brought here today by
aeroplane by Lieutenants H. A. Dargue and E. S. Gorrell.
Carranzistas and Villistas clashed about fifty or sixty miles
v south of Chihuahua City last Friday, the Villistas being de-
i feated, according to reports received in Chihuahua.
1 Columbus, N M., April 11. Lieu-'
: tenants IT. A. Dargue and E. S. Gor
rell of the aero corps, returning here
' today in a long distance f Hfih,t from
San Anlonio, 330 miles south of the
border, said that reports were cur
rent among the natives In the vicinity
of Santa Ana, seventy miles south
west of Chihuahua City, that Villa
:, was dead of blood poisoning caused
' by hiB wounds. Other reports indi
cated that Villa was in flight closely
followed by American troops soutb of
Parral and near the Durango border.
May Be Ruse to Deceive Americans.
Military authorities realize that the
: report of the bandit chieftain's death
''' may he another tubo to throw the
Americans off what has been termed
v a "hot trail" but nevertheless, the
! fliers said, no tendency is manifested
v to belittle the report,
; "There seems no doubt that Villa
; was wounded," said Lieutenant Dar
' gue, "conversations with natives and
: with physicians having convinced me
.'! that be was shot through both legs,
! one of them being broken by a bullet,
while another shot lodged in his stom
ach. A man in that condition, with
i out medical attention could scarcely
live long.'
Aviafor Scouting for Grave.
The aero corps planned to send an
aviator today to scout over the re
gion In which the natives have report--,
ed Villa was burled in an attempt to
find tho grave, the fliers said.
,! Information brought by Darguo and
1 Gorrell indicate tnat American cuv-i
alrymen have entirely surrounded tie
detachment which is reported to have
ri been carrvlng Villa on a litter. The
advanced 'cavalry detachments, they
, said, are about 400 miles south of the
, border, below Parral, and near the
Durango border, while several col
t limns are operating south of Satevo,
4 'where General Tershlng today was
' establishing his new headquarters.
i Villa was last reported to General
1 ' Pershing as having been in the vicin-
ity of Bacabuirlachlc, west of Parrel.
I ThiB would place him in the midst of
I the different detachments of Amer-
lean troops. If he is dead it may be
that the end came while the various
lorceB woro preparing to close in on
' him.
t Spectacular Flight of Aviators.
I ' The flight of Dargue and Gorrell
9 ' was one of the most spectacular of
1 , the campaiga in Mexico. Lieutenants
1 i, Dargue and Gorrell, using the same
M plane made their way from San An
M tonio, 330 miles Bouth of the border,
M ' with but one stop at Casas Grandes.
M $ Their flying time was four hours and
M ' a minutes.
3 , The arrival of the filers marked
m the resumption of the army aero dls
M . Patch line which had been interrupted
9 ' tor about ten days by the demand for
m the air scouts at the front,
3 - Word was leceivod at military
m headquarters here today that Liouten-
if PANTAGES
3- VAUDEVILLE
a AT THE ORPHEUM
OPENS THIS WEEK
m) WEDNESDAY
Hr Headlined by
H THE CANNIBAL MAIDS
M OTIS SKINNER PLAYS
B THURSDAY NIGHT
ant-Colonel Rivers, who has been dan
gerously 111 at Casas Grandes with
pneumonia, is on the road to recov
ery. , . .
""" Boys Hoot at Gringoes.
Lieutenant Dargue who with Cap
tain Foulols of the aero corps, made
a flight to Chihuahua City several
days ago, carrying dispatches, said
that in making the landing In the
town his plane was fired upon by the
Carranza garrison, puncturing it and
endangering his life. The shooting
was done, he Bald, before the soldiers
realized his identity and as soon as
the military authorities learned of
the arrival of the Amerlpan aviators
they sent a special guard to watch
their machines. Before the arrival
of the guard, however, he said both
he and Captain Foulols were annoyed
by crowds of small boys, who threw
rocks at the machines and hooted at
tho pilots, calling them "gringoes."
The aviator explained that this
spirit was not manifest by any but
the lowest classes, and that after
waid they were shown every cour
tesy, the Carranzlsta chief of staff in
viting them to his home and pur
chasing candles and tobacco for them
to carry back to the American troops.
The local daily papers, a copy or
which was brought here today, also
spoke favorably of the expedition and
urged the people of the city to show
every hospitality to the American air
scouts.
General i-'erscung s neauquiuitiis u..
Front, April 10, 10 p. m. Via Mexi
can Telegraph to Juarez, April 11.
Renewed reports have been received
hero by General Pershing that Fran
cisco Villa Ib dead and buried. These
reports are under investigation.
Meanwhile the hunt for the Villistas
is proceeding with renewed vigor with
the arrival at the front of General
Pershing.
MexicanB who have seen Villa on his
flight south, said that the bandit
looked thin and emaciated a week ago.
Reports, however, are conflicting. One
statement from good authority stated
that Villa was able to walk the first
day after he received his wound,
which indicated that no bones were
broken.
Aeroplanes today covered several
hundred squaro miles of territory
scouting over a country heretofore
unexplored by planes.
Mexlcane Bitter Against Villa.
The Mexicans in this section are
well disposed toward tho Americans
and many of them are bitter against
Villa.
The American line of communica
tion now ia about 400 miles long.
It Is again reported that Pablo
Lopez, who murdered seventeen
Americans last January at Santa
Ysabel, is not dead but wounded and
that the Villa lieutenant is trying to
escape the Americans.
Reports of friendly co-operation of
the Carranza troops continue.
Washington, April 11. Unofficial
and unconfirmed reports that Villa
Is dead reached tho Carranza embassy
today and were given some degreevof
credence by officials there.
The reports were represented as
having come from Queretaro, General
Carranza's provisional capital.
They were unsubstantiated by the
latest dispatches to the war and Btato
department. The circumstantial re
ports of Villa's recent injury, how
ever, and tho rigors of his long and
hurried flight In which ho has boon
varlouslv reported as being carried
on ft litter on the shoulders of the
men or In a carriage over the rough
Mexican trails, give color to the pos
sibility that the landit chieftain may
have been unable to survive the hard
ships of the flight in his disabled con
dition. 18,565 Troops on Patrol.
Official estimates of the number of
troops In Mexico and on the bordor
available for an emergency were giv
en at the war department today. Gen
eral Scott, chief of staff, anuouucptl
that 18,565 troops now constitute the
border patrol.
General Pershing has about 12,000
men In Mexico, including those hold
ing his lino of communications.
Only 4,000 Men Not on Duty.
How greatly the mobile army has
been drawn upon for the Mexican ex
pedition and border service was also
disclosed by General Scott He esti
mated that only 4,000 troops remain
in the United States not engaged on
the border.
The only troops remaining at army
posts are the second cavalry, divided
bptween Fort Myer, Va., and Fort
Ethan Allen, Vermont; the Third and
Thirteenth Infantry along the Great
Lakes; the Fourteenth Infantry divid
ed between Fort Wright, Alaska, and
Fort Lawton. Oklahoma, the Twenty
first Infantry, divided between San
Diego, California, and Vancouver,
Washington, with one battalion at
Calexico and one troop of the Thir
teenth Cavalry at Fort Riley, Kansas,
service school.
No Word From Pershing.
General Scott also stated today that
no word of the chase of Villa had
been received for several days either
from General Pershing or General
Funston. Difficulty of communication
as well as censorship extending to
the war department itself, General
Scott declared, had loft the depart
ment In Ignorance 01 recent opera
tions.
The department asked Tor details
of General Pershing's contorencPi
with Generals Herrera and Gutiorrez.
but General Funston telegraphed to
day that no further word had come
from General Pershing
American Consul Letcher of Chi
huahua apparently is aiding General
Pershing to get supplies, General
Funston reported today that General
Pershing reported being in tovich with
Consul Letchr, and expected" 'togot
supplies from Chihuahua.
Special Agent RodgerB of the state
department, assigned to Carranza's
headquarters at Queretaro telegraph
ed today he was detained in Mexico
City in connection with commercial
questions affecting the hide trade and
mining taxes.
All state department dispatches
were said to report conditions quiet
throughout Mexico. The department
was without information regarding the
reported activities of General Sala
zar. Four V'lllstas Captured.
El Paso. Texas, April 11. General
Gavlro, commanding the Juarez garri
son, received a telegram today from
the military governor at Madeira that
four Villistas had been captured and
that thev will be executed. General
Gavira said he thought the Villistas
had been captured In a recent battle.
BERLIN REVIEWS
VERDI FIGHTING
Germans Have Captured 36,-
000 French Since February 21
and 25 Square Kilometers
of Ground.
DENY FRENCH REPORTS
Crown Prince's Troops Have
Made Steady Gains and
Taken Important Posi
tions Along Line.
Berlin, April 11, Wireless to Say
vllle. Since February 21 the Germans
have captured more than 36,000
French in the fighting about Verdun,
tho Overseas Nowb Agency announced
today.
West of the Meuse about 25 square
kilometers of ground has been occu
pied, the announcement says.
German newspapers point out that
the French now say that Bethlncourt
was evacuated in accordance with
plans previously executed. Neverthe
less tho following order was Issued:
"This Important place must bo held
in all circumstances."
French Plans Not Carried Out
Tho faot that more than 700 un
wounded French prisoners were taken
and that the French losses in killed
or wounded were far greater Is proof
that the French plan of evacuation
could not be carried out as Intended.
According to the French reports,
tho new lino runs from the southern
corner of Avocourt wood along the
first elopos of Hill No. 304 thence
along tho southern bank of Forges
brook, passing to the northeast of
Haucourt; turning eastward, crosses
the Bothlncourt-Esnes road at a point
south of the Junction Jbf that road
with tho highway to Chattancourt and
reachos the Meuse Just north of Cum
lerea, The fortifications of tho vil
lage of Avocourt which 1b south of
Avocourt wood wore destroyed by
tho Gorman advance of April 9 as
royorted.
UNCLE SAM'S BIG PAPER MONEY FACTORY I
CORNERS COLOR MARKET; RUNS FULL TIME
Bureau of Engraving and Printing at Washington.
The government's big stamp and paper money factory, the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing at Washington, has not shut down, nor gone on
short time, nor made any changes in the colors, because its director, Joseph
E. Ralph, cornered the American color market immediately after the out
break of the war. Realizing that with Germany cut off the price of dyes
would skyrocket, he bought all the dyes available in August, 1914, thereby
savinjr Uncle Sam between 300.000 and $400,000.
n siflj Mi 6 L LB !BJ 1
1 1 nr ?!r ft rlISi!
AGAINST VERDI
Violent Attacks of Crown
Prince's Forces Being Spent
Without Gaining Ver
dun Fortress
CRITICS REVIEW BATTLE"
French Commander, General
Petain, Not Caught Napping
Foresaw Possibilities
and Was Prepared.
Paris, April 11, 5:45 a. m Tho
crown prince's supreme effort for tho
capture of Verdun, as the military ob
servers characterize tho operations
which began on Sunday to the west
of the Meuse, is spending itself
against the stout and Intelligence de
fense of the French. Tho observors
point out that when the assailant
realizes that he has failed to attain
his objective, he invariably delivers
r.n extended assault with great vio
lence boforo lapsing Into normal
trench warfare. Such was the great
German attack during tho battle of
Ypres, on November 10, five days be
fore the battle ended and the first
French battle in Champagno on
March 18, 1915, which closed with a
violent assault. In these operations
the assailants hoped to surprise the
defender by an unexpected effort and
to wrest from him by taking him una
wares the reward of their sacrifices.
General Petain Not Napping.
General Petain, the French com
mander at Verdun, was not caught
napping but foresaw the possibility of
such a move and straightened and
btrengthend his line in anticipation
of it.
The battlo continues, but with a
perceptible dwindling of its violence.
The French commander's plan Is to
engage the least possible number of
men so nB to maintain the maximum
number of formations for tho ulterior
operations which are to be entered
upon at a moment which he will con
sider opportune and which probably
will be decided upon this morning
when he considers the Germans have
wastod all the men they are willing to
sacrifice.
Since the beginning of the battle,
tho Germans havo employed thirty
two divisions, it is asserted, and it 1b
impossible for them long to continue
their efforts on the present scale. A
radical change is looked for shortly.
nn
REPEAL OF SUGAR
BILL ASSURED
Senate Asked to Put Tariff of
One Cent a Pound on Grape
fruit and Lemons.
Washington, April 11. Debate on
the sugar tariff bill was continued In
tho senate today with Its passage vir
tually assured. A final vote was to
be taken beforo adjournment under
an agreement reached last Friday.
Senator Works of California intro
duced an amendmont to put a tariff
on grapefruit and lemons of one cent
a pound.
Senator Works declared that when
the tariff law waB bolng framed a
"corrupt lobby misled congress by
false representations" to reduce tho
tariff on lemons to less than half a
cent a pound and that it resulted dls-
?strously to the American lemon in
dustry." "II was ono of the most corrupt
efforts to control legislation that ever
existed," Senator Works declared. He
charged that a combination of lemon
Importers raised $140,000 to conduct
the fight and was now being sued for
$75,000 by a man who claimed that
sum was due him for services In
bringing about tho lemon tariff re
duction. oo
EL PAS9 POLICE
UNEARTH PLOT
Scheme of Wide Dimensions
Hatched and Backed by
Same Men Who Are Fi
nancing Felix Diaz.
Late Victoriano Huerta Most
Trusted Lieutenants Among
the Prisoners Grilled by
Secret Service Men.
El Paso, Texas, April 11. The three
leaders of the Dlazlsta plot to seize
Juarez and overthrow the Carranza
garrison last Sunday were executed
by the firing squad In Juarez early
today The three leaders were Nlch.
olas Chavazarrl, Jose Inez Bornel and
Florenclo Hernandez. The condemn
ed men confessed the plot before they
were executed. Other Mexicans were
implicated.
El Paso, Texas, April 11. A plot of
wldo dimensions, hatched in EI Paso
and backed by the same people who
are financing Felix Diaz, is believed
by the police to have been unoarthod,
following tho arrest last night of fif
teen Mexicans accused of being im
plicated In tho flight across the bor
der of General Ynez Salazar.
Agents of the department of Justice
aided tho police In making the arrests,
most important of which were General
Marcelo Caraveo and General Ignaclo
Moreles Zaragoza, who, like Salazar,
were among the best known and trust
ed of the late Victoriano Huerta lieu
tenants. Prisoners Are Grilled.
The prisoners were grilled for the
better part of tho night by the police
and secrot service officials. The fol
lowing story was pieced together
from their admissions and Is believed
by the authorities to be substantially
correct.
Tho bankers of Diaz It is said, be
came dlssalisfled because his own
military reputation was Bmall ond he
had no man with his movement In
whose generalship tho Mexican peo
ple had confidence.
They also were anxious to reinforce
tho Diaz campaign in southern Mexico
! r c I lint l rnrirt rtflT In 41sv vrtf1i
em part of tho republic. A soldier
was wanted of proven ability and Sal
azar was selected. He was amply sup
plied with funds and proceeded to or
ganize his followers from El Paso.
Emissaries Sent to Mexico.
Emissaries wore sent Into Mexico
to try out tho sentiments of various
Carranza garrisons and to stir up tho
people by spreading reports that Car
ranza was in the pay of the United
States and that General Porshlng's
expeditionary force was really the ad
vance guard of an army of occupation.
There has been plenty of ovldonce
that such reports havo beon clrculatod
in Juarez and have caused a consider
able Improsalon on the peons.
SalazarB plans "were not yet ripe
when ho learned that he was in dan
ger of botrayaL Ho bocame alarmed
and fled precipitately acroBs the bord
er on Sunday, acoompaniod, it ia be
lieved, by only a handful of his most
trusted adherents, J
GERMANS STILL POUNDING FRENCH
LINES AT DEAD MAN'S HILL
Berlin Views Verdun Operations Confidently, Pointing to tll
Gains Made in a Difficult Region and Heavy Losses In- .Vl
flicted on the French Paris War Office Reports Pe- flpl
tain's Command Holding Firmly and Germans IlLI
Gaining Little Headway in Face of Heavy IHI
Losses British Unsuccessful in Strong " It&lH
Hand Grenade Fight Near St Eloi HvB
London, April 11, 4:10 p. m. The Italian steamship 'll
Unione is reported by Lloyd's to have been torpedoed. The
crew of the British steamship Eastern City, the sinking of ffl
which was announced yesterday, has been landed. The East- (Hl
em City was sunk by a submarine.
There are three Italian steamships Unione. The largest, i 'H
of 3,239 tons, was engaged in trade between Italy and South jHj
America. l
Paris, April 11, 2'12 p. m. On the'
west' bank of the Meuse, the Germans
made an attack last night on Dead
Man's Hill, advancing from Cordeaux
wood. They obtained a footing In a
few small elements of trenches, the
war office announced this afternoon,
but otherwise were repulsed.
East of the Meuse the Germans at
tacked trenches Bouth of Douaumont
village but were beaten back with
considerable losses. There was vio
lent bombardment near Douaumont
and Vaux.
The text of the communication fol
lows: "On the left of the Meuse, the Ger
mans yesterday evening delivered an
attack against our positions at Le
Mort Homme. This activity was ac
companied by the use of flaming liq
uids. The attack was made from
the Corbeaux wood and was checked
by our curtains of fire and tho fire of
our infantry, except on the east where
the enemy secured a footing" In a few
small elements of trenches.
Germans Use Flaming Liquids.
"On the right bank of the Meuse,
the Germans endeavored Inst night
to expel us from the trenches taken
during the past few days south of the
village of Douaumont This endeavor
saw the Germans making use of Jets
of flaming liquids. It was met with
a sanguinary check.
"There has been a violent bombard
ment In the region of Douaumont and
Vaux and in the Woevre district there
have been some outbursts of artillery
fire. The night passed quietly on the
remainder of tho front
"This morning a French air pilot
vanquished a German aeroplane which
fell within our lines near Badonvil
ler. The two enemy aviators woro
killed."
British Hand Grenade Attack.
Berlin, April 11, via London, 3:15
p m British troops mode a strong
hand grenade attack last night after
intensified artillery preparations
ngainst the German positions south
of St. Eloi, near Ypres, but the attack
was repulsed and tho position Is firm
ly held by the Germans, according to
the official statement issued at army
headquarters today.
Fighting on both sides of the river
Meuse (Verdun) was in progress with
great vigor throughout the whole of
yesterday, the statement says. The
numer of unwounded prisoners taken
in this sector was increased from 22
officers and 695 men to 36 officers and
1,231 men.
The text of the official statement
says:
"The English, after Intensified ar
tillery fire, made a strong hand gren
ade attack last night on our positions
north of St, Eloi. The attack broke
down before the mine craters occupied
by us. The position is firmly in our
hands over its whole extent,
"In tho Argonno near La Fille Morte
and further to the east near Vauquois
the French, who caused several mlno
explosions, succeeded only in inflict
ing damage on themselves.
Verdun Fighting Continues.
"Fighting proceeded with great vig
or throughout yesterday on both sides
of the Meuse. Counter attacks aaginst
the positions were made south of For
ges rivulet, Avocourt and Chattan
court broke down with, severe loss to
the enemy.
"The number oT prisoners taken was
Increased from 22 officers and 595
men to 36 officers and 1231 men and
the booty to two cannon and 22 ma
chine guns.
"One machine gun-and 22 prisoners
were brought in as a result of further
captures among tho blockhouses Bouth
of Raven's forest.
Counter Attacks Crecked.
"Counter attacks from tho direction
ot Chattancourt were checked by our
offcctlvo flanking fire from tho east
ern bank.
"On the right bank of the Meuse tho
enomy attempted in vain to recapture
the ground lost on the southwestern
edge of Poivro wood.
"Southwest of Douaumont the en
emy was compelled to relinquish fur
ther defensive positions from which
we trough baok sorao few dozen pris
oners and three machine suns.
"Two aeroplanes wero brought
down southeast of Ypres by anti-air-J
craft guns."
Review of War Situation. H
The German assault on Verdun Is iH
still centered on Dead Man's Hill west ,H
of the Meuse. Advancing 'from Car- H
beaux wood, the Germans last night H
gained a few elements of French tren- i
ches. Otherwise, the French war of- "H
lice announces, they were beaten back HH
with heavy losses. Between Douau- .flH
mont and Vaux east of the Meuse i IH
the Germans also renewed the at- i pB
tack. There, the French report says, ?wl F
they gained no success. ' lfjB
Berlin Is Confident. ilHB
Berlin views the Verdun operations IhH
confidently, pointing to the ground SiH
gained in a difficult region and the .'
losses Inflicted upon the French. j (,
All the passengers and crew of the ' !
Spanish steamer Santanderlno were '
apparently rescued with the exception - lll
of Tour persons who aro believed to , 'H
have been drowned. The owners of j j jH
the vessel have been notified that she , -H
was sunk by a submarine after f if- i ! 'H
teen minutes which had been allowed ' , H
for the departure of those on board. j 5H
Vigorous Fighting Is On. I 'H
The official German statement tolls j ' 11
of vigorous fighting on both sides of 'l'B
tho Meuse and of the repulse of : ''tJ
French counter attacks between Hau- 1 r ,
court and Bethlncourt, but makes no i r
claim to a further advance in the reg- j
ion of Dead Man's Hill. ' fl
Germany's reply to the Inquiries HjH
from Washington concerning the i j iH
steamship Sussex and four other ves- ' M
sels which was damaged by explosions (1
was delivered today to the American I j H
embassy in Berlin. JM
Submarines in Black Sea. I M
Copenhagen, via London, April 10, I M
11:40 p. m. German submarines, I H
larger and speedier than any previ- i H
ously seen, have appeared in tho J I M
Black sea, according to the Constan- M
tinople correspondent for the Voos- t MH
schc Zeitung (Berlin) who asserts j H
that it was one of theso that torpe- 'I H
doed the Russian hospital ship Portu- I jH
gal. 1 H
I
The Portugal was sunk in the black H
sea March 30. At the time she had iH
a large number of wounded aboard. H
An official statement issued by the i H
Pctrograd declared that a German I H
submarine had sank the ship. Nel- t H
ther Germany nor Turkey has made j H
any answer on this circular. , jH
Italians Called to Colors. ' H
Rome, April 10, 11:10 p. m. -By j 3M
royai decree the following classes of . H
reservists are called Immediately to . IH
the colors: Men born in 1890 and IH
who have served in the cavalry; men ' IjH
born in 1882, 1883, 1S84, 18S5 and 1886 j ! H
and who have served in the mounted . H
artillery, and men born in 1882, 1883, , H
18S4 and 1885 and who have served M
in the engineers, as well as all men j jM
of the territorial militia who havo I . 1
served in the cavalry and also men j .H
of the transport service for artillery ' M
and engineers. I 'jH
Allies to Land on Greek Soil. J J1 H
London, April 11, 5 p. m. A Reu- I lj iH
ter dispatch from Athens says that jH
the British and French ministers in- ijJH
formed Premier Skouloudls of tho Ifll
Intention of thoir governments to , rH
land forces from tho harbor of Argos- 'IMI
toll and olsewherc on Cephalonlo, ono iLI
of the Ionian islands a few miles west I M
of the mainland. Assurances woro i H
given that tho sovereign rights of ' M
Greece would be respected. t :M
Spy Put to Death. jH
London, April 11, 4:05 p. m. A spy rJM
was put to death In London today.
Announcement of this occurrence was .
made officially as follows: i V
"A prisoner charged with esplon- M
ago was tried by general court mar- H
tial at Westminster Guild Hall on tho ;
20th of March and tho following days jM
and was sentonced to death which M
was carried out this morning." 9
oo ifl
Railroad Folder In lino with- its ,
"Bee America First" campaign, tho , H
passenger department of tho Denver H
& Jlio Grande railroad has issued a ,H
handsome elght-pago, illustrated and , jH
descriptive, folder of Mesa Verde Na- H
tlonal park, southwestern Colorado, H
Copies of the folder havo been recclv- H
ed at the local ticket office of tho ' H
D. R. G- JM
