\ ~ agt?| THE DAILY TELEGRAM [-rSSESe-] 1
V J I other Cluiubnrg paper. HhH
EXCLUSIVE ASSOCIATED PRESS SERVICE BY PRIVATE WIRE
ESTABLISHED 1861. CLARKSBURG, W. VA., TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 1916. PRICE TWO CENTS f'JMI
GEI
DODD'i
teuton:
but c
East of Meuse River Germans
Are Driven Back by the
French with Losses.
EFFORT SPENDING ITSELF
French Expect History to Repeat
Itself with Return to
Normal Trench Warfare.
( r Al.OCIAT.O PH..I
BERLIN*. April 11.?British troop*
mode n strong hand grenade* attach
Monday night against the German positions
south of St. Elol, near Yprcs,
hat the attack was repulsed and the
position Is limily held hy the Germans,
arcordlng to the official statement Issned
at the war office Tuesday.
tmr A..OCIAT.D A.... i
PARIS, April 11?On the west
bank of the Meuse the Germans
made an attack Monday night on
Dead Man's hill, advancing from
Corbeaux wood. They obtained a
Tooting In a few small elements of
trenches, the war office announced
Tuesday, but otherwise were repulsed.
East of the Meuse the Germans attacked
trenches south of Douaumont
village, but were beaten back with
considerable losses. There was violent
bombardment of Douaumont
and Vaux.
The crown prince's supreme effort
for the capture of Verdun as the military
observers characterise the operations.
which began on Sunday to
the west of the Meuse, Is spending
Itself against tbe stout and Intelligent'
defense of the French.
The observers point out that when
the assailant realizes that he has
failed to attain his objective he ln^
variably delivers an extended assault
^ with great violence before lapsing
into normal trench warfare. Such
was the German attack during the
battle of Ypres on November 10, five
days before the battle ended, and the
first French battle in Champagne on
March 18, 1915, also closed with a
violent asBault. In these operations
the assailants hope to surprise the
defenders by an unexpected efTort
and wrest from htm by taking him
unawares the reward of their own
sacrifices. General Petaln, the
French commander at Verdun, was
not caught napping but foresaw the
possibility of such a move and
straightened and strengthened his
line in anticipation of It.
The bnttle continued but with a
perceptible dwindling of its violence.
The French commanders plan Is to
engage the least possible number of
men so as to retain the maximum
number of formation for the ulterior
operations which are to be entered
upon at a moment which he will consider
opportune and which will prob
ably be decided upon by him when
he considers that the Germans have
wasted all the men they are willing
to sacrifice.
Since the beginning of the battle
the Germans have employed thirtytwo
divisions, It Is asserted, and it is
Impossible for them long to continue
their efforts on the present scale. A
radical change Is looked for shortly.
MANY FRENCH CAPTURED
IN FIGHTING AT VERDUN
( V AtCOCIATBD FNIAB1
BERLIN. April 11.?Since February
21, the Germans have captured
more than 16,000 French In the
fighting around Verdun. It was announced
Monday. ^
"West of the Meuse, about twenty,
five square kilometers of ground has
been occupied," the announcement
says.
"German newspapers point out
that the French now say that Beth,
lncourt was evacuated In accordance
with plans previously made. Nevertheless
It has been ascertained thai
an order was Issued stating:
" 'This Importance place must he
held In all circumstances.'
"The fact that more than 700
wounded French prisoners were
taken and that the French losses In
killed or wounded were far greater,
Is proof that the French plan of evack
uatlon could not be carried out as
W Intended."
4 4
+ CANDY BEING MAILED 4
4 TO AMERICAN TROOPERS. 4
4
fr (?Y ASSOCIATED PftKSSl ?
* COLUMBUS, N. Of., April 10. 4
4 ?Publication of reports that 4
+ American soldiers In the Olex- 4
+ lean field have asked for con- 4
+ Blgnments of candy have 4
+ brought responses from young 4
+ men in almost every section of 4
4 the United States. Every mall 4
4> and almost every express train 4
4 arriving in Columbus bring 4
4 parcels of candy addressed to 4
4 the "Soldiers at the front." 4
4 4
Miss Lillian Russell Webb, of West
Pike street, left this morning for
Philadelphia, where she will study
music for several weeks.
*MANS WIIN
5 RUSH CARRIES Hl\
S ADVANCE ON THE HIII.
Otherwise are" repulsed
BARBED WIRE ROOF COVERS TELEGRAPH POSITION AT VERDUN
oCT ? '
Telegraph position protected by barbed wire in advanced French' trench at Verdun.
Telegraphy plays an extremely important part in the warfare of today. Every position is directly con.
nected with headquarters by either the telephone or by a telegraph line. In this way all moves of the enemy
| are quickly transmitted.
TO BREAK WILL j jecomespnext Week
Is the Object of a Suit Brought
in the Circuit Court of Celebration of First Festival of inB the individual sacnnce which was
Ohio County. . Education in History is to
j WHEEUN^n^Tn.-The fight Be Hddbythe JeWS. Jn^clay
for millions of Henry Schmulbach,; The Pesach or Passover, a Jewish parsley and salt water, symbolic of
the late brewer, - has been begun in religious period, will begin Monday. growth and the fertilisingfreshness
the circuit court here/ The action in evening. It wlil be observed seven, of spring, invest the .domestic cere|
the case was brought by Miss Annio days by the reform and eight days | mony with a real and forcefql mean;
I* ellers ,a young St. Mary's girl, who by. j^e orthodox congregations. ! ing. A beautiful and most suggestis
a second cousin of the deceased. it iB the first festival of emanci- ive part of the service is the Open
but it is said that back of the case pation in tlie history of civilization., Door, through which ' the tpesslanic
are a number of employes of the its commemoration is based on the prophet Elijah enters every home
late brewer who were disappointed Biblical narrative which tells how that night, a splendid expression of
in the small bequests left them. the people of Israel enslaved in Egypt the great idea which the prophets of
Schmulbacli's estate is estimated were led from bondage to freedom Israel announced will become real
at between $5,000,000 and $10,000,- by the great leader Moses. some day when men will cease to
000 and the bulk of it went to hi3 The Passover festival speaks for hate and begin to do justice,
widow, a former dressmaker, whom the sancity of the home as well as It is customary to remove all leavhe
married a short time before his f0r self-respect and liberty. The en out of the household in preparadeath.
Former employes of the late Jews accordingly assemble in their tion for the feast. Leaven Is the
brewer claim that during his life they homes on this festival, and signalize symbol of tlie sordid, and refers to
had been told by Schmulbach that it by a solemn service in which the those who are unemancipated from
they would be left large sums in his story of the ancient struggle for the commonplace things. During
will and they expect, it Is said, to emancipation Is recounted with pious feast, only matzoth and not bread.
! bring forth a previous will, made be-; fervor. This seder, as it is called, Is are oaten. The distinctive spirit of
j fore Schmulbach's marriage, in i unique in enirit and form. It i? nam- tho ?mnat finria <?vnr?aainn in
wmcn tney receive large bequests, est and yet happy, and Its ritual, the specific food.
Attorneys John A. Howard and though archaic, symbolizes the facts Tho Haggadah, the order of the
James A. Rltz appear for Miss Fel- of human experience in all conditions domestic service, read on the night
lerB and Judge Frank W. Nesbltt and of life. The roasted bone remlnls- when the family gathers about the
Nelson Hubbard for the proponents, cent of the paschal lamb of the first common table, comprises the.narraThe
contestant alleges undue lnflu- Passover; the bitter herbs calling to tlve of the exodus from Egypt, the
cnces and mental Incapacity. The mind the hard labor of the Isra- account of the oppression which' the
hearing Is expected to continue at elitish Blaves; the unleavened bread, ancient Israelites endured, and in
' least ten days. Schmulbach's last known as the "bread of affliction." more recent times in the midst of tho
will was dated about three months symbolizing the hasty departure unkind nations. Tho Haggadah also
before his death last August. from Egypt; the roasted egg, recall- Includes a special group of psalms
(CXIII-CXVIII) and a number of
' CF M A TIT niT TQ A iTTir P the most' anlcent
O&llsa * & \iFlV JL O saA Jl I^IVa of the Jewish holldcys and. perhaps
_ ^ ? _ the most ancient of all holidays In
Q" A Rill A P ^1 I Y>DI TQ *he history or religion, and no hollO
* sal 11/salvl/ Jl V/1 O day Is so near to the truth of human
4, life as It Is.
' i. i 7j 7 n . The favorite book for reading dur'
Unanimously Adopts a KCSOIU- ollne price to the consumer by the lag the Passover week Is the "Song
tinn tn Ha VP All PrflhpRp- Standard Oil Company in Ntw York of Songs." It is the most classical
nun tu nave ?n ri uuc nc wa8 twenty-six cents a gallon; Chi- song of love in canonized literature
, POrtS brougrrt in. cago. Standard Oil Company, of In- and Is read on this festival because,
dlana, eighteen and one-half cents; nccording to the traditional view, It
( r At.ociAT.o rMiii Ohio, two cents higher than average bespeaks the love between God and
WASHINGTON, April 11.?Without middle West, and Pittsburg, twentv- Israel.
debate tbe Senate Tuesday adopted a four cents. 'I
| resolution by Senator Kenyon, Repub- (lniTIPIL oniliprn
lican. directing the attorney general. MORI ON TRIAL. KH SH liKlllhrn
If not Incompatible with public Inter- Dili IIUII UIIUIULU
est, to submit to the Senate all reports Bruno Piorl was placed" on trial ?
of Investigation made by the depart- Tuesday morning In the criminal Off P.flrw Hpnrv te RpnnrtpH hv
ment Into the Standard Oil Company court, charged with having sold u" UdPe nenry l!> nepui'teu Dy
since the supreme court decree of dls- liquor. A rule was Issued against raSSBfigeTS On oTCatTISlTip
solution agalnBt that company and John Slers for'failure to appear as a Mot a nan nn Arrival
particularly any Investigation into witness In the Lloyd Dug case. ifictrtjlrtii oil Mil ivcti.
gasoline prices.
TO PREACHSERMON. NEW YOR&^pril Tl?-The pres<m
The Rev P A. O'Doherty. of the
petitioning Congress to Supplement the ^urch of the Immaculate ConcepUon ^lt C^mSan"ag.te.mSherman
law to make effective the de- w?nl to Oaktand, Md., Tuesday. .. M t^ which arrived here
cree of dissolution against the Stand- cttto ic church WeVue'Sav ^a^^Colon and*^^ ^
ard Oil Company and declaring it to aJ ?" Catholic church there Tuesday warshlp of the Kmx clu8 vu ob_
be the sense of the association that the served Monday in pursnlt of a tramp
dissolution decree was a failure. ihittii sutiurv nnnwvvn steamer. The cruiser-llred one shot.
A letter to Senator Kenyon from R. DROWNED. whereupon tbe freighter, which had
S. Welch, counsel for the association, been Oftng no flag, ran up the Unlon
declared Independent oil Jobbers of the LONDON, April 11.?A Reuter Jack, and the warship abandoned the
middle West would be driven out of despatch from Madrid says that four chase. . " .
business and face Unsocial ruin unless of' the members of the crew of the ? ??
an end was brought to discriminatory Spanish steamer Santanderlno, Dr. John Law, of the local dental
prices of gasoline dictated by the which is reported to have been sunk fraternity; Is to attend'the state denStandard
.011 Company. by a . torpedo, have been landed ait tal meetlng InCharlestonthe latter
On Ajprll; 9, the letter said, the gas- St Jean de Lux. ' part'of'the weefc.
(AN
iall ?
[fort bli:
has eng.
PEOPLE FL
HEAR EV
FUNERAL OF
MR. COFFIN
ON TOMORROW
i
Strinnston Schools Will Close as
a Tribute of Respect to a
Former Teacher.
Everett G. CofTman, aged 25 yearn, J
one of tlio promising young men of
this county, Ib dead nt his father's
home near Dola. About one yohr ago,
while teaching In the Shlnnston high |
school he contracted lagrlppe, which
later developed Into tuberculosa, and I
In November of last yoar was forced
to give up school work. He had the j
best of the medical profession of this ,
city for his relief, and a change of j
climate was desired, but the disease (
developed so fast and swiftly It was
i Impossible for lilni to leave his home. ,
He leaves surviving him Phlpps ,
| W. Cotfman, his father; Tnbltha j
I Coffman, his mother, and Maduo ,
Raker, his slHter; Zona Colfman, an- ,
other sister, having departed this life
some years ago. He .was a cousin
of I. Wado Coffiuan, clerk of the circuit
and criminal courts of this coun- ,
ty; Charles O.* Coffman. altorhey-atlaw;
Mrs. E. F. Rogers nnd D. Ray j
Rogers, of Meigs avenue; Homor W.
Williams, lawyer, and Joe Williams, j
of the O'Neale Printing Company, all ;
of thlr city. j
He wsb born and reared on a farm i
near Dola and early In life started ]
out to acquire an education. As a 1
boy In the country school he showed ]
marked ability and easily lead his I
classes. His desire for knowledge
I ivtlo an rreon uftne nsstlnir ?lt tliA 1
* * ?' ?w ?? mi unuiug nil lliv
books In lils father's home, he was
constantly borrowing books from
neighbors. His grasp of knowledgo
obtained from books was so rapid
that he obtained a certificate to
teach school at the age of sixteen.
After teaching school for some tifne
he then attended Wesleyan College at
Buckhannon, and In 1913 graduated
from that Institution with high honors.
Since that time he has been
teaching In the Shlnnston high
school and attending the state university
during the .summer.
During his school work at Shlnnston
he, madenumorous friends, both
In and out of his profession, and was
considered by all who knew lilm a
young man of promising attainment.
So great was his desire for knowledge
he never stopped until he went
to the very bottom of affairs. Early
In life be became a member of the
Tenmlle B&ptist church at Rosebud,
and has always' been looked upon as
a model young man, who overcame
difficulties by hard work and honest
effort.
Funeral services will be conducted
at his father's home tomorrow morning
at 9:30 o'clock, and the Interment
will, take place at the Rlttenhouse
cemetery near Dnla. In commemoration
of the high regard and
esteem of tys many friends and acquaintances
the Shhnston schools
will be closed .tomorrow, and many of f
;the MUDen an4 pupils will attend
the funeral In a body. The Short 1
'Line train will convey all parties I
from Shlnnstou and this city who
may desire to attend the funeral.
BlMT ,
Is Being Taken in Sale of Jersey
Cattle to Be HeW at :
Gore Farms. ;
1 ?
More than ordinary Interest is be- J
lug takep by fanners and dairymen In r
the first annual public sale of thor- t:
oughbred Jersey cattle that has been r
announced by Gore Brothers. It will r
take-place Thursday on the. Gore r
Farms northwest of the city with
Thomas Dempsey and-Col. Perry doing t
the selling. 0
There are 100 head of registered t
Jersey cattle In the lot that la to he n
sold and it Is said to be a splendid lot p
with a number of Imported and strictly
bred Island cows Included. In addition, ?
twelve to fifteen head of'extra select i
grade Jersey' cows in milk will be sold \
to any who maybe Interested In ex- j
cellent producers of the Gore farms i
grade herd. An advertisement in the j
Telegram gives particulars of the of- j
ferings. n
DL<
lUf OF
ss think:
aged v1ll
OCKTO
ANGELIST
It ttlP St Paill'c firoat Rmriwal
? >? ?? ( MM! W VI WHI IIWTIfHI
Meetings Tell How to
Stay Married.
A (treat congregation assembled nt
Ihe St. Paul's Methodist Episcopal
ihurch, South, last evening to hoar
the Rev. Mr. Jackson deliver his famous
locturo on "How to Stay Marreld."
After a short, but very Interesting.
song service, the opening
preyer was led by the Rev. Dr. King,
pastor of the First Methodist Episcopal
church.
The people came In groat droves
until every available space was filled
with chairs and tho aisles wero lined
with Interested listeners and, many
wero turned away.
The Itov. Mr. Jackson began In his
usual pleasant way to discuss one of
the greatest subjects which confronts
ho American people today. He
spoke In pnrt as rollows:
"Tho home life has stood tor
many generations as Clod's greatest
Institution for character building.
Most of us to this day could Join In
spirit and truth John Howard
Payne's 'Homo, Sweet Home'; but
he old-fashioned homo Is being as aulted
today In all sorts of now
Fashioned manners. Zeppelins from
ibove, submarines from beneath nnd
1 dangerous fleet all around us. If
*e stay married right. It will be because
we recognize the fact that the
homo Is grounded In our deepest nature,
and Is essential to all our highest
Interests."
Then the preacher plunged Into
his subject as one who bad. a message
and Was Impelled by tho. high,
est motives to deliver It. The. subject-was
discussed under the followng
divisions, namely; First, "Married
Life Is No Joke." Here the evangelist
assailed the light way In, which >
lomo people entered this sacred reatlon.
Second, "Married "Life Is Not
t Fiction. Headless prodigals and
leartless dolls who drift Into this rentlonahlp
never And a happy married
Ife. Oettlng married Is a Serious
justness."
Third. "Some Hindrances to g
Happy Home Life." Under this head
sere discussed, "fault finding," "lnlifference,"
and the "sacredness of
jersonallty."
Then Mr. Jackson closed with a
llscusslon of "Helps to Live the Hapiy
Home Life," First, "conform your
Ife to realities. It is better for a
lewly-marrled couple having money
o pay for but one cbalr to use'that
me chair and nit the closer, hold
he tighter and the whole world will
;row the brighter. No woman can
ove an old 'skinflint.' Anybody can
ove a noble soul." Then the speaker
closed with an earnest appeal to
ive the beautiful life. This does not
nean beautiful furnishings, but the
leautlful spirit In which we live out
hese relations.
Following the sermon the congre- ,
;atlon was dismissed by the pastor,
>ut the way It lingered Indicated that .
in Intense Interest was being felt In
he service.
The great crowds which were
urned away last night Indicates fur
nor tne imperative need or tne new
ihurch building tbe St. Paul's con[regatlon
contemplate building. The i
ihurch has Increased exactly one <
mndred per cent in membership In <
he last two and a half years. i
A meeting for women only la to be I
leld at 3 o'clock 'Wednesday afternoon i
n the church. All women of the city i
ire cordially Invited. i
MEMORIAL O
IN THE FED!
?
;eeling Tributes of Respect
Are Paid the Late John J.
Davis, of This City.
The opening of the April, term of .
ederal court here Tuesday morning 1
ras an Impressive memorial occasion.
Ihort tributes were paid the late oh'n
. Davis, a member of the court bar
nany years an da set of resolutions
he same as those adopted by the Harlson
County Bar. Association was .
ead and ordered spread on the court '
ecords. - ,
The court then had the names of j
he Jurors to serve during the term ]
ailed and then adjournment was n
aken until 10 o'clock Wednesday i
lornlng. The. following Jurors re- <
iorted for duty: . ]
Lloyd A. Anderson, Pages B. Benett,
Earl R. Plgott, Walter W. Mills,
lavld W. Ttmberlake, William I.
Vlnfleld, Ferdinand Oore, Charles M.
Irnat, Macus V. MUlan, John D. .
'homas, Levi M. Harris. John O.
[organ. Junta L. Rlnehart, Camden
tolloham ^Mortimer^ Langford. Be
DSE
REACH
S DODD 1
A CAHArO
.? rurcbCd
Reports Are Current That Battle
Has Been Fougtrt wtttv la
Villa Bands.
BUT LITTLE APPREHENSION
Dodd's Men Can Rght Them- ::'JH
selves Out of Any Uncom- . . M
fortable Position.
( v Aa-ociAno raim
EL PASO. Tex., April 11.?The J2
southward rush of the American cavalry
forces pursuing Francisco Villa. ,
lias been so rapid tlist It has carried
Colonel Dodd and bis troops far be- >'?
yond all lines of communication. :<?M
Officials of the Carranxa governtoday
to gain information over tt.
Mexican land lines in regard to tbe
advanced position of the American
troops. No official word of the wherenbouts
of the advance guard has been
rocelved for days.
Army officers at Fort Bliss believe --22
that when the expeditionary com- jjM
nianders get in touch with Major -X
General Funston they will report
that the American troops have en- :
gaged the Villa forces in battle. Re-'-mf
ports that a battle has been fought; '^9
with Villa bands south of 8atevo ?S
were current today, but there was ;
nothing to confirm these reports.
While tho American cavalry is
combing the country at the far end
ol the attentunted line of communtcation,
there was little apprehension
over their position, for It was felt at < .
Fort Bliss that Dodd's -men could
fight themselves out of any uncom-' :?
fortable position.
UNCONFIRMED REPORTS
OF THE DEATH OF VILLA
(IV, AfMMIATM MUD " . M
WASHINGTON, April 11?Unofficial
and unconfirmed reports'that is
Villa is dead reached the Carranxa;.^
embassy Tuesday and were , glftn::s
some degree or credence by officials ISj
there.
The reports war represented as
hav having come from Queretaro,:
General Carranza's provisional capl- .<3
tal.
They were unsubstantiated by the
latest despatches to the war ud
state departments. The elrcumstantial
report of Villa's recent In- . ,
Jury, however, and the rigors of his ts
lone and hurried filaht In which he
bag been variously reported as being
carried on a litter, en the shoulderk Si
ot his mon or In a carriage over, the ffl
rough Mexlc&n trails, gave some ctilriw
or to the possibility that the bondli .KB
chieftain may have been unable, to jg
survive the hardships ot the flight In wl
his disabled condition.
Offlclal estimates ot the nnmber:'o.tj?fl
troops In Mexico and on the border
available tor an emergency were i 55
given at the war department today. ' %
General Scott, chief of staff, ah- ?
nounced that 18.S65 troops now con- %
stltute the border patrol. JSj
How greatly the mobile army has ;
been drawn upon tor the Mexican
expedition and border service was
also disclosed by General Scott. HOs ..5
estimated that only 4,000 troops re
main In the United States, not engaged
on the'border.
FIGHT IS ENDING. ^
WASHINGTON. April II?The |
annual tight in the House over theVS
rivers and harbors appropriation blU?a
was drawing to a close when work
was resumed on. the ceasure today. y
Only a few minor details remained jg
to be worked out and prospects were
that the bill would be passed during
the day. The measure appropriate* .?
approximately $40,000,000.
ccasion
:ral court
MILL BLOWS UP
. ; <, .4;, ;
One Man Killed and Two Others 1
' '
- .. - .. .. ;
a*MMa>Tn*mi) .. HQ
SCRANTON, Pa., April 11.?'TtaH
jreaa mill of the DuPont powder
vorka at Moosic, near here, blew up 2
ruesday, killing one man, Darld Mil- |
er. Two other men, Jamea T.Brown
and Charlea Maurer, whtB
vera getting ready to go on the day'iH
ihlft, Buffered alight Injuries. Tbe'S
explosion waa heard all-through thel*S
Lackawanna ralley. .1
. i .it', a
ELKS WILL MEET.
it S o'clock tonight In regular weekly
leaalon.^ The new^ offlcers^wlll be^ln
