THE BARRE DAILY
MES
VOL. XX NO. 23.
llAItlfE, VERMONT, TUKSUAY, APRIL 11, 1010.
PHICE, ONE CEXT.
DEADMAN'SHILL
IS THE CENTER
OF BIG EFFORT
Fresh Assault on That Im
portant Key to Situation
Before Verdun Brought
Some Small Gains to the
Attackers Last Night
SMALL ELEMENTS
'OF TRENCHES TAKEN
East of the Meuse the Ger
man Efforts Were. Less
Successful, the Assault on
Trenches South of Douau
mont Village Being Hurled
Back by French
The Cerraan assault on the defense
of Verdun is still centered oh the all-important
key position of Dead Man's Hill,
wett of tho Meuse. Paris regards' the
present attack of the Germans as their
supreme effort in this greatest of bat
tles. French commentators suggest it
may mark the close of the Verdun cam
paign whatever the outcome.
Berlin views the Verdun operations
confidently, pointing to the large extent
of groiind gained in a difficult region and
the losses inflicted on the French.
With the exception of the Verdun sec
tor, no military operations of particu
lar significance were reported from any
of the battle fronts on three continents.
The change in seasons is interfering with
the movements on the Russian, Italian
and Mesopptaminn fronts, although on
each there are signs of increasing activi-
The last remaining mine crater taken
recently bv the Germans at (it. Kloi has
been recaptured by King George's men,
who also were able in tlieir attack to
establish themselves in German trenches
running southwest from the crater.
G. 0. P. CONVENTION
IN MONTPELIER
TO BE MAY 26
Republican State Committee Met in Bur
lington Yesterday Afternoon and
Completed the Preliminary
Plans.
Burlington, April 11. The Republican
state convention for the election of four
delegates and four alternates to the lie-
publican national convention will be held
at Montpolier city hall on May 28, ac
cording to a decision reached by the Re
publican state committee which met hero
yesterday afternoon. Basis of represen
tation at the state convention will be
the Republican vote for governor in
191-1, with customary apportionment of
delegates according to the votes cast in
each town.
The matter of temporary discussion of
of the convention, after discussion of
available men, was referred to the execu
tive committe, with power to act, as
were tho various details connected with
the convention.
Mav lfi, the day of the primary elec
tion, was designated as the day for the
holding of caucuses at which delegates
to tho state convention shall be elect
ed and a call for election of town and
citv committees at ttie same time will
be issued later.
There was considerable discussion of
tho questions presented by the new pri
mary law, and it was tho unanimous
opinion ot the committee that every
aid to the obtaining of a full and fair
expression of the wishes of the Republi
can voters of Vermont as to a candidate
for president should be given by the
party organization. Methods f effect
ing this were discussed and a statement
will be issued later bv the chairman of
the committee. Mr. Wilson, covering this
ground. The committee took no vote
as to their individual preference and
deem it their duty not to promote any
particular candidacy but to assist so far
as they may in currying out the spirit
of primary elections.
In the absence of ,T. B. Searles of St.
Johnsbury, secretary of the committee,
S. li. W aite of Hvde Park was elected j
VAGUE ALARM
WAS LESSENED
AT DAYLIGHT
Columbus, N. M., Feared
Another Raid Last Night
and Its Citizens Spent
"Many Hours of Apprehen
sion of Impending Trouble
CALL IS SENT IN
FOR MILITIAMEN
Despite the Relaxation of
Tension with the Coming
of Daylight, Some Citizens
Still Continued to Feel
Panicky Troops Are De
clared to Be Ready
secretary pro tern. Stanley C. Wilson of
Cheh-ea presided at tho meeting. Earle
R. Kinsley of Rutland, Republican na
tional committeeman from Vermont, and
Guy W. Bailey of Essex Junction, secre
tary of state, were galled into confer
ence with regard to the practical appli
cation of the primary law, and state
their understanding of the operation, and
Mr. Bailey explained some of the prob
lems that have arisen with regard to the
machinery under the law and the inter
pretation that he and the attorney gen
eral put upon them.
Paris, April 11. On the west bank of
the Mense the Germans made an attack
last night on Dead Man's Hill, advanc
ing from the Corbeaux wood. They ob
tained a footing in a few small elements
of trenches, the war office announced this
afternoon, but: otherwise were repulsed.
Cl'ast of the Meuse the Germans attacked
the trenches south of Douaumont village
but were beaten back with considerable
losses. There was a violent bombard
ment of Douaumont and Vaux.
AMERICAN WOOLEN
RAISES WAGES
ASQUITH SAYS ALLIES
DO NOT DESIRE TO
STRANGLE GERMANY
British Premier Declares They Intend
International Problems Must Not Be
Handled by a Government Con
trolled By' a Military Caste.
London, April 11. On the occasion of
a government reception to visiting French
senators and deputies at Lancaster house
last night, Premier Asquith took the op
portunity to reply to the speech deliv
ered in the Reichstag by the imperial
tiernian chancellor.
The premir, in proposing the toast
''Our guests" referred to Von Bethmann
Hollweg's claim to readiness, on the part
of Germany to negotiate peace, and
said:
"The German chancellor wants us to
assume the attitude of a defeated to a
victorious adversary. But we, are not
defeated; we are not going to be de
feated." Reiterating that the allies were only I
prepared for peace on the terms of his
declaration of November, 1914, Mr. As- I
quith proceeded:
"The chancellor first misquotes my lan
guage then proceeds to distort its ob
vious meaning and intention. Great Brit
ain and France entered the war, not to
strangle Germany or wipe her off tho
map of Europe; not to destroy or muti
late her national life; certainly not to i
interfere w ith, to use the chancellor's
langtiiige, 1 lie free exercise of her peace
ful endeavors.
"As a result of the war we Intend lo
establish the principle that international
problems must be handled by free ne
gotiation on equal terms between lio
people, and that this settlement shall no
longer be hampered or swayed by tie
overmastering dictation of a govern
ment controlled by a military caste.
That is what I mean by the destruc
tion of the military domination of Prus
sia -not hing more, but nothing less."
"The chancellor savs that after the
Ten Per Cent Increase in New England
and New York Shops of the Com
pany May Be Prelude to Gen
eral Textile Increase.
Boston, April 11. A 10 per cent in
crease in wages, effective April 17, was
announced to-day by the American Wool
en company. The increase will affect
25,000 employes of the company in New
England and New York. It was under
stood here that similar advances were
likely in other textile industries.
Columbus, N. M., April 11. This town,
ridden with alarmist rumors, was re
lieved to-day when the night passed
without sign of the trouble which many
of its citizens feared. T. A. Husley, a
deputy sheriff, feeling that every precau
tion should be taken to protect the town
against the possibility of a repetition of
the raid of a month ago, has requested
that militiamen be sent here to assist the
regular troops policing the border.
The tension which has been manifest
the past 24 hours was somewhat abated
to-day but some citizens, despite the as
surances of the military authorities that
there were no grounds for fears and that
the troops were amply prepared to care
for any emergency, seemed to be slightly
uneasy.
ARRESTED IN EL PASO.
RUMOR OF VILLA'S DEATH
HEARD IN WASHINGTON
Washington, D. C, April 11.
L'noffieial and unconfirmed reports
that Villa is dead reached the Car
ranza enilatssy to-day and were
given some degree of credence by
the olliciuls there. The reports
were represented as having cime
from Quertaro, the ftorranza pro-'
visional capital. They were un
substantiated by tho latest dis
patches to tho war und state de
partments. Circumstantial reports of Villa's
recent injury, however, and the
rigors of his long and hurried
flight gave some color to the pos
sibility that the bandit chieftain
may have been unable to survive
the hardships of flight in his dis
abled condition.
INSTRUCTED IN ROAD WCRK.
REPLY IS NOW
IN U. S. HANDS
Germany's Answer to Amer
ican Inquiries Deliv
) ered To-day
TO BE TRANSMITTED
TO WASHINGTON
Large Number of Town Officials Heard
Talks at Montpelier.
of
SELF-DEFENSE PROVEN.
Calvin A. Rich Acquitted of Charge
Assault
Rutland, April 11. Calvin A. Rioh of
Mendon, who has been on trial in Rut
land county court for the last few days
on a charge of assaulting John McLaugh
lin at the former's home, stabbing him
in the back several times, was acquitted
by the jury in court yesterday morning,
the verdict being announced shortly be
fore adjournament time yesterday aft
ernoon at 5 o'clock. Mr. Rich admitted
doing the stabbing but told a stor of
self defense, which the jury must have
believed.
(ieorge Parron of Fair Haven, who has
been in jail since the recent series f
robberies at the Bryne store at Centi r
Rutland on a charge of receiving stolen
goods, pleaded guilty to an information
tiled against him by State's Attorney C.
V. Poulin. Brief statements were made
to the court by the prosecuting officer
and by Attorney P. M. Phelps of Fair j
Haven, who appeared for the respondent
E. Baca, One of Best Known Lawyers in
the Southwest.
El Paso, Tex., -April 11. Eifego Baca,
one of the best known lawyers in the
southwest, formerly district attorney in
Socorro, N. M., and a leader in new Mex
ican Republican politics, was arrested
here last night in connection with the,
flight over the border of General Salazar
Sunday. ,
Eight Mexicans, all of whom have
played important parts in Mexico politics I
at one time or another, were t arrested
at the same time. Among them was
General Saragoso, who was in command
at Tampico under Huerta, when the nr-
rest of American marines precipitated
the crisis which led to the occupation
of Vera Cruz, and General Careveo, a
former lieutenant of Orozeo. All eight
are said to have been working in the in
terest of Felix Diaz. This report, offi
cers said, supports the theory that Sala
zar proposes to declare for that leader.
Haea represented Salazar at the let
ter's trials for gun running, conspiracy
against American neutrality and per
jury. In each case his client was ac
quitted. After his first arrest, Salazar
escaped from jail in Albuquerque and
was said to have made an abortive at
tempt to start a revolution in Sonora.
Baca was indicted as an accomplice in
the escape and later acquitted.
Road commissioners and selectmen
representing towns in Washington coun
ty gathered in the memorial room at the
city hall in Montpelier at 10 o clock this
forenoon to meet State Highway Com
mtssioner Stoddard Hates of Derby and
County Commissioner R. S. Currier of
Barre, who presided. the .Montpelier
Board of Trade, represented by President
B. Lstee and Secretary I.awrenee A
Keltv, extended greetings to the 100 men
who will bve charge this spring and
summer of improving this section of Ver
mont s highways, and the Vermont Auto
mobile association was represented by
Secretary Lester H. Greene of Montpe
lier.
A luncheon was served at the Pavilion
hotel this noon to the visitors. Brief
talks were given bv Fortis Abbott, agent
of the Washington County farmers as
sociation; President K. L. Cleaves of the
automobile club, and Major Boutwell of
Montpelier, and If. 1). Hopkins gave a
ading. This evening the commission
ers will lie the guests of the Montpelier
Board of Trade at the regular monthly
meeting in the auditorium, addresses to
be given by State forester A. I. Hawes
and others.
State Commissioner Bates gave a talk
for nearly two hours this forenoon, in
which he gave instruction as to road
building. He told of the advantages of
having wooden guard rails at dangerous
places and he described what hc-eonsid-ers
to be an ideal fence for the purpose.
He urged that bridges and culverts be
put in good condition and it was his
opinion tlwt bridges and rulverts strong
er than required to carry present traliie
should be built to be prepared for in
crease of traffic. Cement rulverts were
recommended, and the speaker thought
blocks 20 inches square were best. He
thought filling holes in highways with
gravel was a lietter plan than scraping
the roads.
Statement , Covers Case of
the Sussex and Four
Other Vessels'
FIND CONTRACT BROKEN.
THINKS VILLA'S DAYS SHORT.
If Not in Life, Then in Freedom Gavira
Makes Statement.
El Paso, Tex.. April 11. General Ga
briel Gavira, Carrnnza's commander at
Juarez, last night announced that the
forces of the de facto government wero
in a position to take immediate control
of the Villa situation if the American
troops withdrew.
General (,'avira's statement, was made
in connection with the announcement of
Ma jnr-Gencral Hugh I.. Scott, chief of
staff of the American army office, that
the purpose of the expeditionary force
would be ennsidrred accomplished when
tne v inn nanus were dispersed or as
And Court Gives $1,074 Verdict to N. W.
Van Cleve. -
Burlington, April 11. A verdict for the
plaintiff to recover $1,074 was returned
by the jury in the county court case of
N. W. Van Cleve vs. Eastern Fruit and
Nut company, yesterday afternoon, after
they had been out an hour and 40 min
utes. This verdict also gives to the
plaintiff his costs, which will be assessed
by the court. Counsel for the defend
ant company announced that the ease
would be taken to the supreme court
on exceptions.
This was an action of assumpsit in
which the plaintiff sought to recover
damages for an alleged breach by the
defendant company of his contract as su
perintendent of their fruit farm at Grand
Isle, and for other damages received nt
their hands. The defendants denied th
plaintiff's charges and also alleged that
the contract of the plaintiff was ob
tained by fraud. In his charge to the
jury, which was delivered immediately
after court convened at 1:30 o'clock yes
terday afternoon, -fudge Stanton in
structed them that unless they found
that the plaintiff had obtained his con
tract bv fraud, the defendant's cancella
tion of it gave him the right of recov
ery. H. F. Hunt of Hincshurg was ap
jwiinteil foreman of the jury.
MANY EXPRESSIONS OF REGRET
At Departure from Barre of Rev. and
Mrs. E. F. Newell.
Members of the Hedding M. E. church
tendered a farewell reception last even
ing to the retiring pastor and his wife,
Rev. and Mrs. K. F. Newell. The parlor
was decorated for the occasion by the
ladies. The crowd which gathered to bid
the pastor farewell tilled the room to
overflowing. Mr. and Mrs. L. s. An
di-ews. Mr. and Mrs. Glenn Carpenter ami
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene C. Glvsson stood
with Mr. and Mrs. Newell in the receiv
ing line.
E. R, Davis acted as master of cere
monies and, after ft piano duet by
Misses Hattie Gregory and Eileen Parks
he introduced tho speakers, the first
of whom was C. S. Andrews, who
bade the pastor and Mrs. Newell god
speed in behalf of the parish. Mr. An
drews sketched the work of the pastor
since his arrival here, touched on person
al experiences which he had shared with
Mr. Newell, told several anecdotes ap
plicable to the occasion and ended with
sincere expressions of regret at the do
parture of the Newclls and expressions
of the good will of the church which will
follow them to their new location.
Rev. J. B. Reardon of the Universalist
church spoke in behalf of the ministers
of the city and of the ministers' union.
Berlin, via London, April 11. The
German government's reply to the Amer
ican inquiries regarding tlie steamship He stated that in all his 28 years of ns
s. n,l tw ....! l.iel, sociation with pastors of various churches
UK llttu lit'VVl leifc JI1UIC irjit-u ait nciui
have been sunk or damaged, was deliv
ered to-day to the American embassy
Washington, D. C-, April 11. President
Wilson and his cabinet met to-day with
out any new information on which to act presented Mr. and Mrs. Newell a framed
in the submarine issue.. The cabinet picture as a token of their esteem and
one of them leave than that experienced
at the departure of Dr. Newell. He
praised the retiring minister especially
for his conscientiousness and zeal in the
work in which he was engaged. In be
half of the local ministers Mr. Reardon
of their best wishes for his future suc
cess.
ministers agreed, in view of Germany's
disclaimer ot responsibility tor tne sus- j.-,,. rPadinff, A Domestic Mis
sex, uiai ii may ue tiuncuii io wise ac- hv hiu t!,-i;J, of .li.-enness
tion on that case alone but Secretary hom jjev vV. M shaW of tlip Trinity
Lansing continued his collection of evi
dence regarding the accumulation of oth
er cases.
BRITISH STEAMSHIP
BELIEVED SUNK
The Ellaston Has Not Been Heard From
She Was Unarmed A Dutch
Steamer Beached to Pre
vent Loss.
London, April II. Lloyds reports the
British steamship Ellaston missing and
presumably she has been sunk. All
hands are believed to have been saved.
The Ellaston was unarmed.
The Dutch steamship Bijndijk. which
struck a mine off Seilly island last week,
has been beached. Her cargo was badly
damaged by water.
M. E. church in Montpelier said u few
words as a representative of the Ver
mont conference. He enlarged upon the
influence exerted bv Mr. Newell toward
raising the ideals of the conference.
Deaconess Davis of the North Barre
mission spoke of the interest taken bv
'both Mr. and Mrs. Newell in the work of
the mission and regretted their depart
ure. Rev. P. M. McKenna of St. Mon
ica's R. C. church praised Mr. Newell's
work more especially in the cause of
temperance and described him as1 a man
candid, manly, hopeful, honest and cour
Mrs. Skinner, in behalf of the church,
presented the pastor a purse of gold,!
with the suggestion that it be used to
purchase something in their new home
which should be a constant reminder to
HEARD SONG
AS CAR SPED
Witness Said She Feared
Something Terrible Was
Going to Happen
SOON AFTERWARD.0
HEARD A r SH
Miss Evelyn r n Testified
Today in nich-Cross
, Suit
Russell Allen, automobile chauffeur
and repairman, completed his testi
mony in the case of Seth C. Rich vs.
George It. Cross, which was resumed this
forenoon in Washington county court
after the week-end recess. Mr. Allen
was on the stand Saturday noon when
adjournment was taken.
This forenoon he testified tint front
his examination of the ground where the)
automobile accident occurred last August
he thought the lront wheels of the car
left the highway first and that the rear
wheels of the machine did not skid over
the bank. Mr. Cross, he said, had, to
his knowledge, driven the machine with
a left-hand drive but once before the ac-
ident.
He (the witness) had driven the ma
bine in question the day of the acci
dent and had noticed that the engine
skiped at intervals. Ho described the)
causes. It was his opinion that a car
being driven at a rate of 10 miles an
hour could be halted by the appliance of
the brakes within its' own length.
Miss Evelyn Brown, an eye-witness of
the accident, followed Mr. Allen on tho
stand and dramatically dcscrilied the ac
cident as she recalled it. Sho had just
parted company with Francis O'Brien,
who testified last week, and was making;
her wav to the Kingsbury house, whero
she resided, when she observed the lights
of a machine coming over the top of thn
hill. Her attention was directed to thn
car because of the noise made by the cn-
thein of their friends in Barre. Mrs. igino and the sound of singing which
CROSSING LAID IN CEMENT
Ordered By Public Service Commission
at Boutwell, Milne & Varnura's.
I.. D. Martin, in behalf of the ladies of
the church, made a similar presentation
to Mrs. Newell for the purchase of a
Wallace Nutting picture to periietuate
the memorv of Vermont and her friends
here.
Dr. Newell made the response for him
self and his wife, attributing his meas
ure of success in a large part to her in
fluence. He expressed his regret at leav
ing this pastorate but explained their
The Barre & Chelsea Railroad company reasons for accepting the call to the New
FORMER BARRE RESIDENT.
William
at
Davidson Died Yesterday
Northfield Fallt.
A telephone message received in Barre,
late last night brought news of the death
at. Northfield Falls of imam Davidson,
a Barre graniteeutter, who resided in this
city until recently. Mr. Davidson had
been in failing health for several months,
illness compelling him to abandon his
the court being asked to allow the young i soon as the troops of the tie facto gov- trade sometime ago. He is survived by
man to be placed under probation. In : (iimcnt are able to relieve them of the his wife and three children, who were
view of the fact that he will be an im-lv.oik." I with him in the hour of death, and by
portant witness against .Joseph Martin,; "Wo have more men than enough now."
charged with committing the breaks, sen- jsi,l General Gavira. "If we were able
tence was not pronounced. j to overcome Villi1, when he had T.OO'I
I men, over a hundred eni-iion and plenty
of supplies, we oi!l-t to le able to !is
DENIES INSULT TO FLAG. i pose of him r.'.v . v; , u his nrirbers have
dwindled down to a few hundred. !;it
Labor Leader Said He Referred to Act of ! it ;s tt bv territory to operate in and
Pennsylvania Constabulary. ja single msn has tin. re chance to escape
Reading, Pa., April ll-James IT. Man- l ,,,,iC ,hrU' a !"r?e ".r: !
. . , . , p..,.,- !., t. i nowever, on secoiinr or hih s won
has been granted permission by the Ver
mont public service commission to con
struct a sidetrack across a highway at
grade between Graniteville and upper
Graniteville in order to accommodate the
Boutwell, Milne & Varnum company,
which propose to build a new power
plant and desires railroad connection
with the same. The permission is grant
ed with the stipulation that the crossing
be laid in cement IS inches thick and
that no cars shall be moved on the sid
ing within the limits of the highway
without the protection of a flagman.
This favorable action follows a hearing
held in Barre on April 4. when evidence
was presented which caused the public
service commission to arrive at the fol
lowing conclusion:
"We find that the Boutwell. Milne &
Varnum company, who are large quarry
owners and operators in the town of
Marre, are about to erect a new power
plant at the company's quarry at gran
iteville, in the town of Barre; that the
necessities of its business require an in
dustrial siding running from the tracks
of the Barre A Chelsea railroad to said
new power plant; that it is impossible
to construct such a siding without cross
ing the highway leading from Boutwell
station to Graniteville and that the busi
ness of the Boutwell, Milne & .Varnum
company is essential to the industrial
welfare of the town and city of Barre.
"Consequently, we judge it conducive
to the public good that the foregoing ap
plication be gr.uiteck"
Electric Consolidation Approved.
The public service commission also an
nounces that it has granted permission
Enghind conference. He expressed also
the gratitude of himself and Mrs. Newell
for the gifts presented.
Glenn Carpenter, in behalf of the Ep
worth league, presented to the church an
enlarged portrait of the retiring pastor
to be hung in the vestry. Mrs. Gladys
Bradley then favored the assembly with
a vocal solo, which was followed by a
closing prayer by Re. James Ramage of
the East Barre Congregational church.
At the close of the reception a lunch
was. served by the ladies of the ladies
and pastor's union. Mrs. E. M. I, von
and E. R. Davis had charge of the enter
tainment, Mrs. D. .J. Morse and Miss
Alice Fa ru ham -looked after the decorat
ing and Mrs. Powers, Mrs. J. If. Johnson,
Mrs. Ray Waterman and Mrs. H. W.
Scott were in charge of the serving of
refreshments.
Rev. and Mrs. Newell left the city this
morning for Worcester. Mass., where
they are to attend the New England
Methodist conference, which opens tomorrow-
morning. Before Mr. Newell is
assigned to a pastorate, Mrs. Newell
plans to visit relatives at (Vnterville. on
Cape Cod. Mr. Newell has been men
tioned in connection with pastorates in
Springfield, Mass.. and Lynn, Mass., al
though no decision has leen reached by
the bishop. At the Central Vermont sta
tion this morning at S:25 o'clock a large
number of acquaintances of Rev. and
Mrs. Newell assembled to bid them farewell.
seemed to come from the car. She had
a premonition that something terrible
was going to happen liecause the ma
chine seemed to he traveling rapidly, and
she ran toward the house. Before reach
ing the door she heard the car go over
the ltftuk and she inuuediately stayed her
steps and, turning, hurried down tho
hank into the field where the car had
stopped. She found Mr. Cross at the,
steering wheel and leside of him, Mrs.
Green. They alighted after she reached
them. Mr. Cross told her that he had
seen an automobile coining toward him,
that he had seen a dark object in the)
road, and that he had lost control of the.
car. 1 he witness said it was quite loggy.
Miss Brown told of helping Mrs. Green'
up the bank to the Kingsbury farmhousa
and of there telephoning to the pollen1
station for help.
Dr. W. B. Mayo of Northfield was thoi
third witness presented by the plaintiff
this forenoon. He was called from hi-ji
home about 2 o'clock in the morning fol-l
lowing the accident. '
BOTH SIDES STAND OUT.
Quincy Manufacturers and Polishers Ini
sist On Their Contentions.
COBBLE HILL SCHOOL CLOSED
Because of a Few Cases of Scarlet Fever
in Mild Form.
company pay all the first mortgage bonds
ttf tlie hI prhiir v concern, amiillntinir
his father, James Davidson of this city, j , .10-xmk, and "shall als.. assume all
two sixers, Mrs. John Emslie and Miss j otm.r otn out.tnnding obligations of the
Alice Davidson of B:irre and three broth-l ,-..t ri .,r.. mmMn"v
ers, Thomas Davidson. George. Davidson ihe findings of the commission in the
land Edward Davids-n. all of this city. above caw were as follows:
j Mr. Ihjvidson was born in Peterhead, J "From the evidence, we find that the
Scotland, and came to America 24 years j transfer of the properties, rights, priv
'fcfro. The deceased was .'12 ye.-.rs old and ! il,,gpw Hnd franchises of tiie Waterbury
las a young man he learned the cutter's 'company to the Montpelier & Barre Light
have. ,trad in this city. He belonged to the , & Power company, and their operation
;nded 'gr.;pe r.t Its' union. !t is expected tiatby the Montpelier A Barre Light &. Pow -j
pany to sell and assign all its assets to j Sessions in the graded school on Cobble
tne .Mompeucr ime i.igni. s. lowerjin in jjarre q,,,,,,, wcrP suspended la-t
company on condition that tho latter wp,,k , pre,.(1tion against the spread
of scarlet fever and prospects tor an
early reopening are considered uncertain.
At the ofliee of Dr. E. II. Bailey, Barre
Town health ofliccr, in Graniteville to
day it was stated that scarlet fever had
developed in two families where children
were students at the school. A number
of ntiidents are believed to have been ex
pohed and it is improbable that sessions
will he resumed in any of the grades un
til the expiration of a reasonable length
of time in which exposed persons mav
v i c t i . - i t" i- i ' 'condition, we think he will be tken soot;, i th remai. is -a ;!1 l.e thought lo ISiirre tor I er company, as an integral part of its
Federation of I.bor, and Socialist mem- Tr , .' . , ,, ... , .,, ' . . , -, r . n . ' i a ,r i i - . 1 1- i
' llf twit if lfi harHltf lit-nl.r l),a, ...tkn.. ,-tcnrt n '.,. funillV l,,t II 1 1 1 in, nl - ' 11-, ,. t Ulll K., ,,,, I I I' A til tiki, Ttldillf-!
l,er ,r tha tint, nrrljilnr. lu-t ,;..! ... - 1 1. ...,n i . . .. - ... ... ,
denied he had shouted "Down with th'Y r'rgK'aI tar,i he 'urvive for 1 0,"r''
Quincy, Mass.. April 11 The manufac-.
turers and the polishers are at greater1
odds than at any time since the local
strike situation developed and not until1
an adjustment is made will the agree-,
ments already reached between the man
ufacturers and the committees for thi
cutters and tool sharpeners bo ratified1
and work resumed. Mhss meetings sched-i
nlcd for Saturday that the formal ac-i
ceptance could lie made, have been post-j
poned indefinitely.
The matter in dispute relates to hand!
polishing. There was a clause in the ohli
agreement that allowed lumpers to dot
hand polishing.
A representative of the manufacturer,
said it has been the custom in Quincyj
since the industry started to allow a;
lumper to do hand polishing if there wal
not enough lumping fr bun. and thei
custom is still in effect in a few yards..
The men, u the other hand, want the'
hand polishing done by union men. A;
representative of that brunch of th.,
trade said that they are willing to have a,
hand polisher also do lumping but they;
object to a lumper doing polishing.
Committees representing both sidei
met. Saturday and arrived at an agree-i
ment relative to machine polishers. Thevj
met again yesterday to consider the hamC
polishers' situation and adjourned with-
out agreement.
A representative of the manufacture
ers said alter the conference that th!
committee of which he was a niember
lime decided to hold no more confer-l
Stars and Stripes' in his address at the
Washington Irving high school in New
York Sunday night. He stated that iin
long.
CAREER ENDED BY EULLET.
had dwelt on the state constabulaiv of I . r , .
j i i a .1 ' Mrs. Joseph E. Howard was Dauchter ot
l cnnsVivantA no rpfmrco trt their lc. ! r lvl vm
war lher must be a new Belgium, which
must not be a Franco-English vassal,
but between whose pe- pb; and the (ier
mans, who burned their churches, pil
lRge.1 their towns, trampled their lilnr
ties, there i to be in the future 'the col
Irihnratinn of neighbors.'
"My answer is a Terr simple one. The
alhes di-sire and are ileterniim-d to see
uii-e again the oi l Belgium. She must
not he tJlowed to surfer permanent I v
1mm the want'-n. irked invasion of h, r
freedom and that which has been broken
d"n must be repaired and restored."
jtions at a burial service in tho oo.il ic-
gions
SPEAKERS FROM THE FRONT
Will Address Vermont State Dental So-
npfv Jit Rnrlintrtnft
j - - v j . , t f i i a r
AVfSithy Steel Man. j r..irhnin. April 11. Th 40th annual ' . , t-
Omaha. Nel- nril 1 l.-Mn .Itl. "leeimg ', , , r Vermont
'What I said was that it ua ihia nu.. ! i- i.......i a , , ' !s's"rt v i! !e held at
.:. . ---
develop symptoms of the contagion. Tl
sebfiol rooms are to In fumigated and ences. except to receive the concession;
the usual measures are leing taken to j of the polishers. The polishers are equal-!
keep the disease within bounds. Iy insistent that hand polishing be thor-j
W hen asked comerning the situation j mighly unionized,
here in the citv. lle.ilth ( liTieer Dr J W. i ,tl',. lul nf the workmen sai.t thatl
subsidiary of the Montpelier A Barre ; st, art stated' t his a fternoon that t here I tiM.re will be no mass meeting until tlmi
Light Power company This transfer I re ljv,, nr iv f.M,s of m.ariet fever on- U committee agree. He said the hand1
Igood of the state, and will he letter for
jail concerned than to continue the opera
tion of the V aterhurv company as a
stahulary that ordered the American flag
lowered at the funeral," Mr. Maurer declared.
DROPS CONTEST.
TAKE OVER 36,000 FRENCH.
C r man Capture at Verdun Since Feb. 21
Revealed at Berba.
-iet.i, April 11
!ne-!ny.
I!', the
Thursday and!
lectures begin-
hoiie hen- We
Kridav. May 17
ning at 2:;0 p. m. on the tir-t named
dav. The speakers w ill include Dr. '
involves no increase in the liabilities of
rA.,ni;.. t- in .-.-a i t. r.u.Ar
t. , ?HT n'-ompanv other thsn the assumption of
. fate Dental thl ,.istjnp (mt-tan,iing obligations
t.-e an N,sof (np Waterburv Light A Power enm-
In Which She Sought to Break Daniel
Greaney'i Will.
W inoo.ki. April II.--A ras of n h
inieresv io ine p.spie m the villaire and 'last mrht. was
which was to be tried in i hit tendril et of Tii-go.
county eonrt this term revived an :onnt Jacques Von Mourik IV Rem fort,
abrupt ending vesteniay when Miss Nel-whose romance, vicissitude and divorce
lie Greaney. the c.mtetjtnt in the ill i occupied many columns in Ihicaro news-
rase of the late Ilsni-1 ,rrney. her un- 'papers.
c!. withdrew. The suit wa ,ver thej How ard. shortly before hi recent mar
will of IVanicI Errancy. Mis. (.ream v su- 'riage. sued Vr $.! damages on
ing Henrv t onin et at., special a.Imin-ia hrea, h ot t.r. ,,,-. . Vi.r,-- IV.rt
ary 21 tip Genr.sns he capture! j i-trst r cf the property. The di w. j Oregon. t,r Mr. Ileal Wit hc.poon. Tie
tl..n .L.NiO pritier in the fg!t-lthen proved and certified to the i.roUte name of the I'mintex IV Iteaufort ha,!
-rg a. ...it Verdun, the Ov,res New, e.Ir1 a the last will nd testament vf bern cut of the i.e -papers M- eral ears
fcrcny annouard to-day. iniel Orraney. untd bcr iceeut nurr.fc to Iloma'ri.
Ion. a wealthy steel manufacturer of I'hi-
cngo, and wife of Joseph Howard, actor
and writer of popular ong. committed
: i i. . i . . , . ....
puM-oi,- f,ii,ioiu ni. a iiN-ai norei wsi : i..i!. in . . ,
. . . . illinium, o.i,j,i'i,ii, iiaiiiznimvu'-iiiiimii
nte-nt An aetresa siniiBmlani u 1,. ..-a . ( .. , .... .
r .. .. . .,........ , ,, xtlf nrvarj unit, iresh from their
w,th her at the time said Mrs. Howard j experience on the front in France,
was temporarily demented. J
j ASCENDED 14,800 FEET.
Chicago, April II. Mr. Joseph How-
ard, who c"mmittel
ted suicide at Omaha New American Altitude Record for an;the bi-hwav at eithei
ell known in the social : Aeroplane. k,i,i. ,m,.'.n,.i..i i
1 1 , . - . i I 1 ' s
Newport Nes. 'a April
American a'tit'ide record f,
11. A new
r an aero
plane carrying two persons was t here! while it orders tie railroad to paint the
,.. lUr ,,,.;.i.r.i,n.
, , , ....-I. -.,....,,
I for said transfer."
M:nor Orders Near St. Johnsbury.
Ap roving the work done in the n!m
ishmeiit of a grade crossing of the Bos
ton & Miiine railroad on the st side of i ' "
the Paunq sic river in St. Jobn-.urv, ! Northfield Institution Again Made Per
the coiu!:-.iss,.in orders the town of St.. feet Score in Shooting.
-er end of a highway j "'W'"- ' '
!,.. ' rrnre-ni it'g vnrnig-in
.... . , X-
legt-, vv asmgioT, . ihi.- ,-omi c, nni A'T
w Mi im ver-uy again made rrfri t a,-ore-of
!. in the fin... e,k of the National
two committees agree.
der treatment at the present time. I.xcr ' polishers wish to control their own trad;
since the outliieak of the malady at M, ,a, e no object ion to anyone joining i
(Jnddard seminary in January, when the,f;(,;r upj,,.
institution was closed for a few weeks.) -p.,, manufacturers" committer is Wil
there h-ive lc. n sporadic ontbrenk of ; ,j.,m Souden .Robert Mavera and W illiam
scarlet ina. Not lliorc than a halt doen 1 ii.,,... kei.re.entin.r the nolrshera arn
ca-Ms have lcen reported at one time.
NORWICH IN TRIPLE TIE.
April II. Teams
Agri, ultural rol-
; pany an t in rr-i a guarii rail on the
wrt ude of the tirii.ge nearer the river.
John Mcljine. Alexander Boss, Domenico
Coletti, Peter and IVmato ardelli.
fUrl.n. via
1-ehriiarv
more
sinr ;
yc-jeriMy when .-leven Marl, onion, a
Curtis aviator, attained a height of H.
" fret. He m accompanied by W. A.
Hudson of Toronto, a student.
The firt of the eight military hi-I.nra
recently piiri h"l bv the poverni'i' nt
was tested out j--terdr. H ti'ade a
-perl of "li nriea an lour. i miles 10
ces of contract reju;e meets.
bridge.
i;?V a-so. ,lt loll S
m.it' ' es w 1 e b end-
Harvard Re-Engaged Haughton.
Cambridge. Ma.-., April II. - Perry D.
Haughton ! h.vn re engaged for an
l'er term of jmn to -t-ii the Har
vard f."t!a!l team, the athletic v-immit-tr
announced List n-ght.
It.terroifegiate rrV
I !t Satur lav.
gMgiite is-,.re for Ce thirteen e,k tin
HK.t lii s were in pn gr.-.s bave n t v.;
Im n-n piled. 1 rama ranking r.--t !
t'.i I. '!. ist t' e -.re f..f le-t we.-k.
imlnti'ed ' -rin M. V s. C. '-jijI, a. ',
.1. !,!. H k !. "., V. t in--nt and Pi un c-t"-n
rm
BRATTLEB0R0 STAMPS
SELL FOR
New York. April II. I he sale
for M.7::o of two postage stamps
i-Micd bv the post nmsti r of Brat
tlrborn. t.. in I - tt,. one year le
fore the I nited M ites government
made it first t.i I i-si(e, was an
tioimosl here todny. The stamps
are very rare and their value was
enhanced bv te lat that l-tli
wrf caie-el.'el snd were -n the
original enej.... ly- than 2"
mn.-'!i-il ,--pies ot t',e Hraf thdioro
stflu ;.- are known t I in ei-t-
t
- f.
