its Jt sc jjc 5 jfc j ijc Jj sjs sj ijc 3s
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
HIM HP
1
THIRTY-NINTH YE, v
SALEM, OREGON, TUESDAY, ffifcJCT-M, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS glltffZSS
JUU
I
I
'Ay
o
TREMENDOLv ASSAULTS
OF GERMANS REPULSED
Wave After Wave of Grey
French Fortifications and
Rank Blown to Shreds In
Teuton Loss In Two Days 20,000 Death Reigns Along
Six Mile Front French Losses Are Heavy
London, April 11. Under the most tremendous blows
in history the French line at Verdun is still holding today.
Wave after wave of gray coated Germans has been
thrown against the defenders on a six mile front north
west of the citadel. The French have not only repulsed
these repeated attacks, but have driven the Germans back
in savage hand to hand fighting on the southern bank of
Forges brook. Beginning with the new infantry assaults
Saturday, the battle has hourly become more violent until
now it appears that it is about to culminate in a grand
German asault on both banks of the Meuse.
"If the French hold this time; Verdun is saved beyond
a doubt," declared a promnient English authority today.
Twenty thousand Germans have been killed or disabled
in two days of the new Verdun attack. Paris also admit
ted today that the French losses were very heavy. All
day yesterday the Germans charged ceaselessly, one rank
dashing forward, only to be blown to pieces and immedi
ately succeeded by a fresh rank rushing into the same hell
of bullets and shrapnel.
Division after division was sent against Dead Man's
hill, but they only succeeded in penetrating advanced posi
tions, and the French claim that most of these were re
captured by immediate counter attacks.
Encouraged by their success in seizing Termiten ridge,
the German commanders ordered a frontal attack on hill
"04. The Teutons came on in mass formation; They be
came lost and confused, however, in barren ravines and
when the units were more or less demoralized by this,
French guns, which had been concealed on all sides, sud
denly opened fire. J
Coder this punishment from scores of recapture lost ground south of Douau
cannon, the Gorman attack halted. Asimonr wer,i heavily cheeked and thrown
the kaisers men retreated the r ren''11 1
lilllis iiioppcil tio.cnsoi nign e.piusir
mIh'IU fimiitiir tlipit linrlilliwl musses, lift-
in',' groups of shattered men out of the
blowing them to pieces anil bit-
ing great hides in tiie confused crowds.
Similar bloody scenes were enacted
between Ilauconrt and P.othincourt.
J'.ut on the e.istern side, whore the ra
vines sheltered the Germans from the
'French artillery, the Teutons shuttered
the Fiench advanced line for more than
n nunrtcr of a mile.
Losses Are Appalling.
Paris. April II. German losses in
tin- battle of Verdun are now more than
-i.ii.iiiiti, according to an oiiict.il est i-: helm V strongest blows against Verdun
mate today. (0,av
The Third German corps has lost 22,- French offensive rivals that
ofMnion, halt its tolalstrcagth. an,l the: wlli(.h thp (.,.Hwn ,)ri,.c is i,.,UIU,hing
lMihteenth has lost li.OtM). I ,, a recent ;,aillst M.,'s hill where the
attack on anx, the Sixteenth and the:ttn,,wi, , v,.r,l i,.h.i ii kiuh.
Nineteenth corps lost fid per cent of
their personnel. Half of the Eleventh
corps was wiped out in la assault on
Aiocuurt.
Attacking with .liquid fire, the Cor-:
uimis captured small fragments ot
irouchos on a ridge east of Mead Man's
iiill during the night. Klsewhere they
were repulsed, the war office communi
que said.
debouching from Crows wood, the
Tcjtons were routed by n hot artillery
and infantry fire.
Kast of the Mouse there w.is a bloody
fight in which Germans attempting to
Some folks are too shiftless t' collect
ther own - thoughts, l.emmie Peters,
wli'i graduated with such high hoi:oij
last June, offers his iorioes as
pet beater an' solicits a
I'oblie f atronage.
: ABE MARTIN
'
i
I
Coated Germans Dash Affainsl
Break to Pieces-Rank After
Their Ceaseless Charges j
it0 jsorii,.r.
The Germans tried to use
I liquid fire there also but their ranks
wore torn by big gmi projectiles be-
fore they oould got their l'lanio tnrowers
into action
A terrific bombardment thundered
nil night in the Dounnmont, Yuux and
Woevre regions.
Fighting Is Desperate.
By Kd L. Keen.
(Cnited l'ress StafJ' Correspondent.)
London, April 11. Meeting the most
savage (lerin.in attacks with furious
counter assaults, and sheets of flame
from rapid fire guns, the French are
checking Crown Prince Frioderich Wil
jest power. Leaping from their trench-
to meet the advancing hordes of
teutons the crouch fought them to a
stnndstill and halted them evervwhere
0WPI,t ,,, tht, 1)arr(1I1 110rl,;,aiit,.rn
ridge of Dead Man's hill, where thi
(lerm.ms gained a foothold.
Hurled back from the French barbed
w ire entanglements, the tide of spiked i
Helmets recoiled, leaving a trait of dead
and dying, while tons of metal from
thundering guns concealed in forests
and behind hills dropped with tremen
dous explosions in the midst of the
struggling masses.
i.eriiu s siaiomenrs indicated
i:ie r reueu imsi at leasi luo.uou men in
the defense. It w .is also semi-ofticiallv
claimed thai more than .iti.iMiti l'rench
i . .... .. .... .. 1
prisoners had been taken. Palis f i-1
mod Gorman losses in the ol dav t inht I
at more than 20(1,(100. '
Official communique indicated that '
the desperate French resistan e was
breaking up the Germ in of tensive '
while it is nt the i rest of its strength.! Hie democrats want to elect two son
The battle, has narrowed to a three! ators from Inldiana this fall and fig
lured that Marshall's name would b"
(Continued on Page Seven.1) needed on the ticket to aid them.
Portland Told to Expect
Unusually High Water
Portland, Or., April 11. Warning to' and has a high w iter ontent. Much of
residents of the lowlands along the Col- that which has so fur melted soaked
umbia and Willamette river and to the int0, K"'") tbe soil is muist
. . i,. , ! end to a good depth. I nder normal
busmen men whose plants are along temperature conditions during April
front street nere have been issued by and May fcigher water than usual will
the I'nited States weather Imreiu. oecur during the nnnu.il rise in the Cnl
Iligher water than usual is anticipated umbia river and those cultivating bot
owing to the heavy snow fall. j torn lands should govern themselves ac-
The warning says: leordingly."
"Last winter was unusually colj.! (if til' observations taken bv govern
and the snowfall not only began cirlier ment agents in the mountain', -ti show
in the fall and continued later in tho reinarknble ineronsos :!'' in oi-mtn
lis a" a, car; RPni? than usual, but.the nmounts that and ouiv three .iVe below normal, (iov
stiure 0 tn M,.l ere the heaviest in yours. The: eminent camp reports titi inches at the
I snow in the mountains is well packed' end of March.
THREE ARE EXECUTED
Juarez, Mex., April 1 1. Kxe-
cuted by a firing squad of six
Carranlistas, 1'lorenz ll.crnan-
ilez, Jose Houruel ami Nicholas
Chavarren paid the penalty lor
their alleged treachery tod ly.
They were lined up against aa
adobe- wall inside an old com-
etery and killed just at sunrise.
Tiioir bodies were left lying as
they fell, for the public to view.
General linvira announced
that they had confessed tint in-
terests close to the Felix Diaz
movement paid tliein money to
foniunt a mutiny in the Juarez
garrison, lt-wns stated there
would be no more executions, al
though two score others were
implicated in the plot. The trio
slain today were charged with
being ringleaders. Cliaearroi
was forinerlv secretary to Gen
eral Orozco.
The executioners selected
their victims as they pleased
and shot th"Jii singly.
AI Heller, Famous Horseman,
Killed Deputy Sheriff
Without Cause
Kiverside, Cal., April II. Al Heller,
who shot and killed Deputy Sheriff Kay
Tripp, aged 2:!, when the latter attempt
ed to orrest him at Aguanga yesterday,
died a few hours later by his own hand,
according to word received here today.
The posse sent out from Hornet to run
nun down tound Holler dead in ins
tent, a bullet hole in his head. It is be
lieved that he was demented when he
tired on young Tripp: The deputy and
a posse were seeking cattle rustlers
when Tripp was slain.
Heller is one of the best known horse
men in southern California. He owned
the Kiverside racing track and owned
and drove Hal Ale Kinney and other
well-known trotting stock.
Tripp got on the trail of cattle
thieves Sunday evening. He took two
Indians and tracked his men to a point
on tne desert mi miles east.
When he culled to the occupant of a
tent hidden in sage brush to surrender
yesterday, tnree shots was the reply.
He died almost instantly. The Indians
fired several volleys of the fugitive
who fled on a horse.
Trading at Standstill
with Prices Sagging
New York, April II. The New York
K.veniug Sun's financial review today
said:
The general uncertainty with regard
to the submarine situation and the po
litical outlook which checked public
participation in the trading, affected
the professional element to a marked
extent today. Pool cliques ami trailers
showed little inclination to buy and
! soil. Some issues like Crucible Steel.
Maxwell and I'nited States Smelting
developed spurts of activity but they
were offset by reactions in Industrial
Alcohol, American Zinc and Mercantile
Marine preferred. Trading was at a
sta-ii'stili' by mid day and barely ."10,000
shares changed hands during the third
li'iur.
Ponds were quiet. There was no im-
nrtnnt change in the later trading cx
(ept th:.t the prevailing dullness was
luccntuated.
l'r'ces moved within a ii iiinw range;
whir they moved at all. The tone was
heavj but leaders sagged off more
from inattention than from anv other
reason.
Marshall To Be Named
for Vice President
Washington, April II. Thomas !.
Marshall
will be running mate of the
.I'lllTlir .ItlllW'u MMItll liltt l.o ..-ill 1...
. , . ... .-....n nm v..
rf rnpora ry cnairman nt tlie democratic ,
""'""'ion according to the prospective!
arrangements of many democratic lead
ers gathering here today for Thursday 's j
conference of state chairman. Tliero is!
fo"" opposition to Lewis.
PACIFIC MAIL TO
BEGIN BUSINESS
LOnly Short Time Ago Sold
Out and Quit Account
"Inimical Laws"
EVIDENTLY RAN A BLUFF
THAT FAILED TO WORK
Buys New Fleet of Vessels
Like Armor Plate Gang,
"Will Be Good"
Sail Francisco, April 11. The Pacific
Mail Steamship company which recent
ly hauled down its flag, sold its steam
ers and announced it had withdrawn
from the ocean, will resume business
June 17.
This word caused . sensation in ship
ping circles here today. The announce
ment was made by John II. Kosseter,
manager for W. R. Grace and company.
which, with the American International
Corporation of Xew York, now costrols
the old raeitie Mail.
A new fleet of vessels which will flv
the Pacific Mail flag has been secured
the Ecuador, Columbia and Venezue
la. They were brought to this const
presumably for the Latin-American
trade: and the announcement that in
stead they would bly between San Fran
cisco and Orient il ports was a great
surprise.
According to Rosseter if tlieso steam
ers do a successful business! manlv
more up to date crack liners will be
built, and the United States flag once
more will be tirinly re-established in
the Pacific
An arrangement has been entered in
to whereby tho Tovo Kisen Kaisha will
make its s.iilings miiernately with the
Pacific Mail, the same as in the past,
so tliero will be a liner from San Fran
cisco for the far east everv week.
Barnes Says: "Roosevelt Is
An Enemy of the American
Republic
N'ew York, April 11. Tho statement
of Wiljiam I'ames, Jr., who charged
Theodore Roosevelt was a "pernicious
influence to the country" was believed
by political observers today to have
greatly widened the breach between the
colonel and the republican leader of
New York state.
" lloosevelt is an enemy to the Ameri
can republic," said Dames, "lie is the
most pernicious influence in the coun
try upon the public mind, not even ex
cepting Hrvan."
lai::es denied a rumor from lSostou
which said he would support Roosevelt
if the latter were nominated ns tbe
regular republican candidate, lie de
clared Hojsevelt had not respected the
rights of others, that he was not a
leader of preparcTness, ami that he had
attachiid himself to tho preparedness
mou'ineut lifter it was started by oth
ers. TARIFF GOES ON SUGAR
Washington. April 11. The free
sugar clause in the tariff law was re
pealed today hv the senate, after it had
voted 40 to to limit the repeal to
w lve years,
!
ROSEBURG WELCOMES
PITTSBURG FINANCIER
Rnseburg. Ore., April 11. S.
A. Kendall, Pittsburg financier,
received a greater ovation on
hit visit to Kosehurg today than
has ever been accorded a presi-
dent of the fluted States.
Escorted by a large reception
committee he visited various
h parts of the city, and a crowd
gathered wherever his nutomo-
bile stopped.
ON ITSOLD ROUTE
On his arrival last night two :'
brass bands and 1.50(1 citizens sj-
welcomed at the station. Mr.
and Mrs. Kendall were then :'
made guests of honor nt a hugi
reception.
Kendall intends to promote
the propose I Koseburg & Eeast-
or n railroad into the Cuscades
east of the city, and to bei1'
severnl sawmills. To b.elp fin-
ance the project, the city of :'
Rosi-biirg recently voted to bond
' itself. The supreme court, how- :;
ever, held that the city could sr
not loan its credit to a private
enterprise.
GALLERY GODS LAUGHED
AND CALVE TAINTED
Sail Franeisco, April 11.
When Madame Emma Calve
stepped upon the Orpheum stage
today she gave the gallery a de
fiant glare before singing "Le
Clarion," a patriotic French
song. Which provoked the laugh
ter of the "gods'' at Monday's
matiner-. The celebrated diva
was in the midst of it when a
loud guffaw echoed from the
gallery. It was followed by
many others. Replying to an
encore which the orchestra au
dience demanded in spito of the
shouts from above, Madame
Calve was overcome by the situ
ation and fainted. The curtain
was quickly rung down.
SPY IS EXECUTED
London, April 1 1 A spy, whose name
is withheld, has been .executed in the
Tower af London, it was offici.illv an
nounced todav.
IS SEEN AI TRUCKEE
Woman Recognized Him As
He Crawled From Brake
Beam Last Night
Auburn, Cal., April H. While hun
dreds of mounted men and a pack of
bloodhounds scoured the foothills .ill
around the city hunting for James and
Albert t'ox, who shot and seriously
wounded Constable P. N. Dependener
lust Nuiidny, the fugitives arc believed
today to have disguised themselves as
iioboes and ridden on a freight train to
Ueuo.
"I believe," said Sheriff ircAuley,
"that they have joined the scores ol
tramps who misr.ite across Nevada all
the your round. "
Mrs. Floienro Kinlilo recognized
.lames Cox iit Truckce, California, last
night when he crawled out from under
a car, the brakebeanis of which he had
been riding. He watkod right through
. nt' ffi..nru ,.!.
live of hi identity. Later tho nian was1
seen on the blind biiBS.iae of an east-l
bon.,,1 train and the lieno ,,oiice were i
.oiotriaphed to look out for hi,,,. The
brother is suppo-ied to have reached Re-1
no by a different mute. j
constable Dependoiior was stiii aiive
today and some hopes tor his recovery
were entertained.
One Thousand Cases
of Beer Are Seized ;,
Seattle, Wash., April tl. One thous
and cases of boor were seized by the
police today after they hid been un
loaded from a scow in the Kast Water
way last night.
The beer is'consigned to 'It. .Tunoau"
according to the marks on the cases,
and it is believed that it was seat up
Fin in California, .ind loaded onto the
scow under cover of darkness.
The police obtained word at midnight
that the scow carrying approximately a
curloail of beer, was making its way
un Kast Wtaerwiv. Sergeans Smart
and Melvin, with eight nntrolnien
watched all night for the landing. A
police patrol bout with two officers
aboard trailed the unsuspecting scow.
.When the scow landed early this
morning, laiiorers started unloading the
HOS.
In the meantime officers oblaiue! a
seizure warrant from the prosecuting
ittorney and took charge id' the beer.
The police have not vet learned the
details of the plant to smuggle in the
oiitinlmnil.
ROOSTER PUT HIM OUT
Pendleton, Ore., April 11. L. A. M.-
Clint nek is hors do combat as a result
of a fracas with a Huff Cochin rooster.
VoClintnck was fishing near a barnvird
when tho rooster attacked him. Limbic
to pierce his rubber boots, the roosler
pl'iifed its beak successively in each
thigh. The wounds swelled and Me
Clintoek was compelled to summon an
uitoinobile to get home.
Settlement Must Cover
Entire Submarine Dispute
By Rolcrt J. Bender.
(I'nited l'ress Stuff Correspondent.) I
Washington, April II. Willi only a
few of the necessary tacts at hand re-
g irding the latest (leruian-Ainerii an
siibniariiie situation, the cabinet co'i-
vened for its regular session today. Tho
(lerman disclaimer of responsibility foricree of siibniai'ii'C warfare against
the steamer Sussex disaster was be-
Moved due to be handed Ambassador
(Jernrd in Iterlin today, but no worl j flict with the llerliu government s as
coucerniug it hid been received f rom i surances.
him.
Lacking this document, the c.ibinet
was without confirmation of reports
that (lermany denied attacking the
channel steamer Sussex. The state-
ment that Germany denied ever having
promised not to torpedo freight vessels
without warning was also without otti-
iul conliriii.ition.
AMERICAN CAVALRY IS
CLOSE AFTER BANDIT
Now In State of Durango On Trail of Villa Who Is Reported
One Day's Ride Ahead of Them-Another Story Tells
of Villa Being Wounded and Gives Details-Refugees
Say Carranza's Troops Moved Out of Way Allowing
Villistas to Make Good Their Escape
By E. T. Conkle,
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
El Paso, Texas, April 11. American cavalry is re
ported to have entered the state of Durango today. Far
in advance of the United States forces, Francisco Villa is
at Tepehuanes, on the main highway leading to Durango
Citv. it was renorted.
Besides these unconfirmed advices, arrivals from Chi
huahua City brought a new version of the circumstances
under which Villa was wounded.
They said that Andreas Rehaza, a Mexican, shot Villa
in the leg at Guerrero, March 30, after his daughter had
been outraged. Villistas caught Rehaza, who attempted
to flee after firing the shot. He was dragged before Villa.
Although suffering severely from his injury, the bandit
chief put his revolver to Rehaza's brow and sent a bullet
into his brain.
Passengers on Chihuahua trains also added that Leon
Bari, a French merchant of Guerrero, four Arab peddlers,
a number of Mexicans, three Americans and two other
foreigners were reported to have been murdered at
Minaca and Guerrero.
The later five were again said to be 'Dr. A. T. Stell,
Lee Lindsey and Frank Woods, Americans, Herman
Blankenburg, German and Donald MacGregor, British.
Travelers arriving here strongly denounced the Car
vnnviarns. Thev charced de facto government troops
ctpnnpn finr or vina s uaui
nuerrero In Villa's flight from American forces through
' , , , TA r, . TJ-Jotrv
Minaca. La Junta, El Rancho De Santiago, Uerro Pneto,
gatevo nfj Qio Azules he was not at any time opposed by
kJatcv" "wu ,. , . i rru - tU
Carranzistas, according to these travelers, lne constitu-
f;onai:sts not march from Chihuahua City after Villa
LlUl'"11010 uivi llul " , . , tx
' i until he was known to be well
How the Carranzistas at
Durango
'itv will receive Villa is a question
pporniost In the minds of officials.
portion of the garrison
nder tho Arri-
eta lirothe
is was reported opposed to
raa "invasion." This report
tim Amoric
was not confirmed. Other reports had
it that Ihe Airiet.i brothers were Vil
la's personal enemies, and that they
were entroni hing at Durango City to
give him a warm welcome.
A number of Salazar svmplitlii.ers,
jncliiding (Icueral Marcclo Curaveo ind
(ienerul -arugosa, nave neon linemen
in L'l I'aso. Iiepartnient of justice
agents, alarmed at Snl.izar's escapo
from this country for the announced
purpose of heading n new revolution In
Mexico, are determined to break up all
antH 'arranza factions here.
There was .111 unconfirmed report
that Cariaiizistns had raided Ksiiiirc
do's rancii at Villa Ahnnmda.
12,000 Troops in Mexico.
My Carl l. Croat.
(I'nited Press Staff Correspondent.)
Washington, April 1 1. Twelve thous
and Cniled Stutcs soldiers .lie In Mex
ico, it was learned officially today.
Most, of them are engaged in guarding
communications. Kightcen thousand
more are patrolling the border. Only
J.illlll troops remain in the rest of the
country, scattered in little groups in
npokniif, Sun Diego, Al.isku, the lukc
district ami the northwest.
The war department, has referred to
President Wilson all inquiries with re
gard to the advisihility of using the
militia if it is necessary to have addi
tional troops, liecriiits are not avail
able for active service until they have
had at least three months training.
It was clear Irom the utterances of
officials that the Sussex case alone is
not responsible for the present crisis.
The LiiHitnaia affair ami, in fact the
i whole sobmiiriun issue, is to bo dis-
,,sl., f ,lt t,jM time. The administri-
tiou lias not considered the Lusitania
episode closed since the kaiser's do-
armed merchantmen was announced, an
i tiiat iirogr.un was dei lured to be in con-
No settlement which docs not cover
the entire ground of the undersea boat
issue will he considered satisfactory,
The significance of recent submarine
j activities, officials say, lies in the fact
, that they indicate tlermany does not
accept Americ i's position with regard
to tli Kaiser's right to sink, passenger
hips,
alter lie uau ucicuw.ii w
on his way to Durango.
Duidicution of the Ran Oeronimo dash
1 WOllM tie cllisll II 1 110 Americans nu;
i to overtake Villa, army men declared.
Ai(e is a fu)1 (1(V' nr mor0 ahead of
i 11. 1 ..!. f til l'nrshino'a men. Illlt
army ioni,,,rs Ba;(1 ti.y feit the United
8tateg RoMieni wore equal to the task.
They think the trail is still warm and
that the hunt will soon be successful.
Two Ships From Tacoma
Are Long Over Due
Tacoma, Wash., April II. Long
overdue al he,- destination, the where
abouts jf '.lie I'.ritish steamship Valettu
is causing unocsinoss here today. The
steamer loaded a record cargo of
9,500 tons of barley here under chnr
tcr to Keer-Ciifford ami company and
sailed January 10. The valoe of the
cargo .as ft 1110,000. Ktom the time tu
Vulettn sailed no word has been re
ceived from her, though other steam
ers cut from this port later have re
ported their arrival. Tho Valetta is
now out about S7 days.
The American sleamer h'uruniu, from
Tacoma, with a cargo of flour, Is an
other vessel past due at her Kuropenn
destination. The Pacific, a sister ship,
mado the run in 0." days, while the
Ktirania is now out nearly 70 days. The
ship had the A rionn flag painted on
her sides when she left port.
POLK COUNT" FATIM SOLD
Mrs. A. J. Durham has sold to A. K.
Haven of Drain, acres of bind ou
milo from Pills City, the consideration
being $2,700. There is a comfortable
dwelling anil a barn on the place. The
purchaser will move his family here
from Douglas county within a few days.
Polk County Observer.
Governor Withvcombe has become a
convert to tho honor system in Oregon's
penitentiary. That's fine, but there are
yet a number of other good ideas ad
vanced by his predecessors which could
bo followed up with great advantage to
the state.
jit
THE WEATHER
Oregon: Fair
tonight and
V e d n e s d ay;
cidder eust por
tion tonight;
light front west,
heavy frost east
portion tonight;
westerly winds.
fine pauT)
WllfC A
