1
UA1L3
From San Francises)
Wllbelmina, Sep. SS,
For San Francisco
'"China, SepL 24.
From Vancouver:
Makura, Oct 4.
For Vancouver: -
Niagara, Oct 13. ;
. ( X
TT3. 11 C - O
2)
. x
Evening Bulletin. Est 1882, No.
12 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, THUBSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1916.12 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
Hawaiian Star. Vol. XXIV. No. 7627
c7 x '
oXi ' xt:-Yj rrtti ?
I
I i
v.
HUB JcllAV NAMED PEDJEJF
ciiffliiui civic coiEtmo;; 104
OUTSIDE DELEGATES ARE PRESHJT
Big Gathering at Hilo Destined Most Successful Ever Held
x :y; Honolulu Representatives Arrive After Spfendid Trip Na
tional Guard Detail Greets Governor Pinkhanv Whose Ad
' dress Draws Prolonged Applause Rev. George .Laughton
Heads Resolution Committee
X";: - ' ' -. ' : ' ' '
; ; By RILEY. H. ALtEN.
(Special Star-Bulletin Correspondence by Mutual Wireless) 'y
HILO, Sept 21w Firing the first gun in the campaign for good roads,
which will be the keynote of the fifth annual Civic Convention, Lorrin A.
Thurston this afternoon presented the report of the holdover committee
on highways, reviving the highways act recommended at the Civic Conven
tion at Wailuku, MauL two years ago. The convention Is in favor of pre
senting this act to the next legislature.
HILO, Sept 21. Hawaii's fifth annual Civic Contention is In full swing,
having opened here at 9:30 o'clock this morning with every prospect of ac
' compusbmg a rrogram of constructive work In the Interest and to the
advantage of every island in the Hawaiian group.
The steamer Mauna Kea, earning the Honolulu delegates, arrived In
HUo at 6 o'clock this morning after a splendid trip of continuous fun-making
and with everyone well and eager to accept the warm hospitality show
ered br the residents of the Crescent City. yy '
HUo is lavishly decorated for the big convention and the welcome accord
Cd the Honolulu representation, and the Maui delegates, who boarded
- the Mauna Kea at Lahaina, was one denoting cordiality and good iellow
--ship;' - , ". y , r::- yy; ' .X .X'-X-'"-' '
Guardsmen Meet Governor '
Three companies of the , National I
Guard were at the wharf to greet
Governor L. E. Pinkham, who was one
of the principal speakers at" today's
session of the convention, and, as a
mark of respect to the . chief execu
tive, a salute of 17 guns was fired
from an ancient ' field piece as the
steamer pulled up to the wharf. .
There Is a record attendance at the
contention, 104 delegates being pres
ent from islands other than Hawaii.
At the initial session of the conven
tion this morning, William McKay,
president of the HUo Board of Trade,
' was elected 'permanent chairman of
1 the big gathering, and Eugene N. Deyo
' was elected secretary. - 7
In his address of welcome Chair
man McKay. In a forceful and clear-
cut manner, emphasized the need of
permanent work ty the Civic Conven
tion. George W. Smith, president of
,the Chamber of .Commerce of Jlonc
lulu," responded. J ':: X" '
Retclutlons Ccmmittet . v
X'rc::owinr the address of-welcome
and the rcepocse, a committee on reso
lutions was appointed, the personnel
-being as follows:
Rev. George Laughton, HUo, chair
man; Lawrence M. Juddand Emll A.
Berndt chairman of the Hawaii Pro
motion Committee, Oahu; Dan Case,
Maul, and Hermann Rohrig, KauaL
The first address was delivered by
Governor Pinkham, whose topic was
'Foreword." and which dealt with
live issues relating to civic better
ment . Prolonged applause . greeted
the chief executive's talk.
In" the opinion of everyone, the con
tention promises to be the biggest
and test ever held in the . territory.
The County Fair opens tomorrow on
Kuhlo wharf and the prospects of its
success are brilliant ' ' - ,
There Is some talk In convention
circles that a resolution may be pre
sented providing for the apportioning"
of promotica funds among the various
islands, but it is understood that such
a move will t be opposed by the dele-,
gates from the; pmotlon Commit
Ladles Are Entertilned --
As a surprise, to the visiting ladies,
the . ladles of ' HUo have planned a
mock convention' to be held this after
noon, which wilj Include serio comic
features. - , ' v ' ':' '' ;
Brig.-Gen. Samuel I. Jbhnson, com
mander of the National Guard of Ha
waii, left the' cruiser t Louis and
rushed overland to greet Governor
Pinkham at the wharf, with the Na
tional Guard detachment -.. The St
Louis will arrive in Hilo tomorrow
afternoon and those on board will have
shore leave on Saturday.
.Unable to attend the Civic Conven
-tion. Mayor John C Lane sent a com
munication 'to WUliam McKay, presi
dent of theX HUo Board of Trade,
which was to be read st the opening
session this morning. The communi
cation outlines the mayor's ideas re
garding a number of important civic
problems. ; It says, la part: X
Mayor Sends Letter .
There is one new viewpoint how
ever, to our local problems wnlch I
desire to bring to the attention of the
convention: It has long been, axiom
atic that a prophet has no honor in
his own country. This is merely an
other way of stating that by reason
of continuous contact and familiarity
between the officers of government in
any community and local civic agen
cies, it is frequently difficult for such
agencies to obtain even serious con
sideraticn for the proposed adoption
of new forms cf organization or new
methods. "
. -Local officials throughout the vari
ous departments of local governments
are usually cognizant of many defects
in procedure and frequently have
themserves conceived changes which,
if adopted, would correct such defects.
Howeverr the lack of prestige, lack of
moral support within the government
and lack of popular support outside of
the government usually conspire to
prevent the adoption, if not the pro
posal, of such corrective measures. ;
A second reason "which prevents
(Ce-tiared oa page two) ;
BIGGEST REVIE
I FIFTY YEARS'
If ELD ir TEXAS
Army Twenty-six Thousand
Strong Marches Through El
v Paso From Fort BIis ' x
XX.-V;-.. ' '"vy;, -"'''.
(auocUtd Txe y Tdcrl Wireless) ,
EL PASO, Tex," Sept 21. Twenty
six thousand dust-sfalned, khaki-clad
regulars and national guardsmen of
Uncle T-Sam'&v,. border .forces ;majtted
through the streets here today in all
the-panoply of war, and were passed
In review at Fort Bliss.
The men presented a soldierly and
efficient appearance and created v a
profound Impression on y the thou
sands of -onlookers . who lined , the
route of march. - ;
This is the first parade and re
view of an Infantry division in full
war strength ever held In the United
States, and officers here claim It is
the largest number of troops ever
mobilized In one body in the history
of the country with the exception of
the grand review held in Washing
ton In 1865. v .vXy .-,y i .
. Eight thousand horses and mules
and a thousand vehicles were includ
ed in the cavalcade.-
Gen. J. Franklin Bell tendered the
review to MaJ.-Gen. E. Charles Cle
ment Pennsylvania.;- . ,yy y ".
' NEW YORK STOCK
MARKET TODAY
4 f
following are the closing prices of
stocks on the New York market to
day, sent by the Associated Press over
the Federal Wireless:
Yester
Today, day.'
Alaska Gold 13 13
American Smelter ..... 1101,
American Sugar Rfg.... IHJ2 111
American TeL A Tel.... 133 133' 4
Anaconda Copper ...... 95 94', 4
Atchison ; . . ......... ... 105J4' 104)i
Baldwin Loco. ......... 87 y2 - S8H
Baltimore A Ohio..;... 89 S8'2
Bethlehem Steel ....... 560 550
Calif. Petroleum . 22 23'4
Canadian Pacific ....... 178', 177'2
M. 4. St P. (St Paul) 95?-. 83
Colo. Fuel & Iron...... 54ft 53H
Crucible Steel 91 91
Erie Common ......... 39't 38
General Electric ...... 174!2 174s
General Motors 650 . 600
Great Northern Pfd.... 120- 119
Inter. Harv, N. J...... 1172 117'8
Kenneeott Copper ...... 54 Vi 52
Lehigh R. R..... ....... 80 80
New York' Central...... 107 107
Pennsylvania . . . . .. .... 57 57
Ray Consol. ........... 25 2S'
Southern Pacific ...... 101 100s
Studebake r ............ 1 30'2 1 28
Tennessee Copper . . . '. . . 25 J4 24
Texas Oil ............. 217 216
Union Pacific ......... 147 145
U. S. Steel.... ..Y..;.. 109 107
U. S. Steel Pfd........ 121', 121
Utah ; ................. . WA f87 :
Western .Union . .... ... X 9914 9s
Westinghouse ......... 64J2 ; 64'$
Bid. jEx-dividend. Unquoted.
- SUGAR
SAN FRANCISCO, y Sept 20. Su
garr 96 degrees test, 5.68T cts. Pre
vious quotation, 5.58 cents.
4- - - . - x ' . -
The speeches of Governor Pink-
4- ham on civic affairs In" Hawaii
v and Ncrman Lyman on roads and 4-4-road
building delivered before -f
4- the Civic Convention at Hilo will
be found on page 9 f this Issue. -4-4:.
-:-;: y ' '4r
t 4 4 4 f4f f-r.tf.f if t
Late-lews At Alii
v TURKEY YIELDS, REO
WASHINGTON, O. C, Sept 21 -Turkey has yielded to diplomatic nego
tiations with the United States, and will permit American Red Cross work
to be carried on in Ottoman territory beyond sections already open in
: Syria. " . -. . " - -' X-
WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS IS STICKING POINT
NEW LONDON, Conn, Sept 21
discussed the withdrawal of United
as one of the principal points in the
facto government but failed to reach
STATE BOARD TAKES
' NEW YORK. N. Y- Sept 21.The State Board of Arbitration today
took a hand in the solution of the
arbitration will be enforced, the first
next
i President Shonts of the Transit
to meet the men's representatives,
recognize any union among its employes.
WIRELESS SERVICE TO JAPAN NOT STARTED
, No word had been received at
; to 3 o'clock relative to the opening
Hawk: manaeer. said, however, that
fore the end of the day, although
1 will delay the service for a few days more. - v-' -. y
KALAKAUA AVENUE IMPROVEMENT STARTS IK. MONTH
, Prellmlhary work on Kalakaua avenue" will probably begin within a
mnnth nrnrtl (n r tn thm RnlAine Pftnnfnictlnn f!omninV. W&0 " has ' been
awarded the contract Due to the scarcity of material here, however, the
- - - A . Alu
; work of laying the concrete will probably not Degm ior two or xnree monuiB.
The making up of the assessment roil
X- t ; ACCIDENT8 DECREASE. REPORT SHOWS
; At a meeting of the industrial
dents were reported for the last week tnan ior any otner weea in ine ms
tory of the board. Whether, the me mbers of the board should make the
Inspection of the canneries which it r ecently voted to do,,or whether It
i should employ an expert; was disco seed at length, y Nov definite action
was taken and no time -was set for the lnspecUot.'':v',;-X---.-';'vi;..i,;': .
V-;-:;.-v..:vv-:;ryy... :
' PIONEER MILL CO. PAYS EXTRA DIVIDEND ,
Secretary Conkling of the Honolulu Stock and Bond Exchange was this
afternoon notified by the directors or fioneer mui iompany uiai ai mwf
lng held today; they had directed, the payment of an extra dividend of 3
per cent In addition to the regular dividend of 2 per cent both, to be paid
October 2. This wUl make the October dividend disbursement pf the com
j pany. $200,000. , y- v
'-'S;:?? WOMAN IS DROWNED OFF KOKO HEAD 'yyy: y
I Yasu Yamamoto, a Japanese womanA was drowned off : Koko Head
about 8:30 this morning, according t o information which reached the sher
lfrs office.' late " this afternoon. Deputy ; Sheriff JulIusW.. Asch . Immedi
ately left, for the scene of the tragedy;? S. Yasuda, who came to the city
a. lit h vi-im with ' himself and another Japanese
man and woman, went, in an auto,
a huge breakerashecT: Yasuda and
Yasuda finally regained the shore
rocks, but the woman aisappearea.
: ; " ALLEGED MURDERERS
XX Elena Roj'as, a FlUplno woman,
Castro at Walpahu several weeks ago, ana uregono rnaoHu, curse
the murder of a fellow-countryman at Kahaluu, were arraigned before Clr-
1. t.. l.trnnl hta ftornwn on A Ttleaded not srullty. Neither, made
appUcaUon for bait These cases
S Sakan and Hirata, charged with - criminal conspiracy, did riot plead
Their attorney has filed a demurrer to the Indictment tbis to be argued
In Judge Ashford's court Friday morning, September 29. Argument is be
ing had In Judge Ashford's court this afternoon on a demurrer charging
Princess" Theresa Wilcox BeUlveau ; . Robert Wilcox, her son, and Y.
Ahin, Chinese capitalist with criminal conspiracy. ; . v
! KAIMUKI HOMESTEAD DESTROYED BY FIRE
The home of E. J Hardesty on Reservoir avende in Kalmukl is this
'.WA.vnn. .mntin and hrrp remains it what was this morning a pret
ty bungalow. Fire was discovered In the roof about 1 o clock by Mrs. Har
desty. who excitedly tried to ; telephone the fire department and failing In
.vi . Kiurtonf in Ha to thtk Kalmukl station to find the
crew, who had heen warned by neighbors. ; just leaving. Chief Charles H.
Thurston hurried from, the central sUtion to take charge of the fire flght
i with th Mftkiki Btation engine but the flames had
1X1 JC .uiu aoiav aaa-aa a--w -" . -
apparently gained too much headway .la a heavy, breese which fanned
them at the top of the-hill and they could not be downed. Hardesty,
Wells-Fargo Company agent had insurance' of $1000 1 on his furnishings.
How much Insurance was camea on
Ion, was not known at the time of
General Bell Sends Report to.
War Department of Rebel ,
;r Leader's New Success
Usaoctattd Press Vf rs4n1 "Wlrelsssr
wBiisiriTnM ? n. C Sent 21.
Gen. J. Franklin BeU, In his official
report to the war department on v u-
1.. mM nn fhlhnahtlA CltT. SSTS Uie
outlaw chief : captured some Carran-
a a A J AAA Wktta
xlsta artillery ana uoeraiea avu yii
oners confined in the penitentiary, es-
caping arter oeing jomeu uj
than 1000- soldiers of the de facto
government - t , .
. . . iv. Vol.
Villa maae a speecn iruu mc
aftar' tha rfLTttura Of the gOV
ernor's palace. The federal buildings
also fell into me nanus oi. me
ers. : ' " . . ... ' . . J
The bandit leader had previously,
sent a letter to uen. lTevmo, wunuu- 4
der of Chihuahua garrison, nouiymg
vnnM ha In the city Saturday
aaaau w " - -
afternoon to "shake hands" with the
general
THREE SLIGHT ACCIDENTS
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON
Victims of three late afternoon acci
dents, none serious, were treaiea
Wednesday at the emergency hospital
KaohL working on Pier 16, sustained
a bruised foot from, a faHmg crate o!
GO OVER TO VILLA
aice
CROSS WORK GOES ON
The conferees In session here today
States troops from Mexican territory
settlement of the dispute with the de
an agreement f
UP GOTHAM STRIkJ
transit dispute, and it Is intimated that
hearing. being caued for Morfday
..';X .; -
Company has persistently refused
declaring that the company refused to
the local Marconi Wireless office up
of the Japanese -service.- w. P. s
he expected to receive some word he-
something may have happened which
was startea wis morning pj me cnjr
accident board this afternoon less acci-
X .X ....
this morning to Yisit.a-frlena. Tortao-
tlw missing woman1 far out to sea;
auer euiung , ma . ivv. .vuij wi w
. y
x
PLEAD NOT GUILTY
charged with the murder of ' Alejandro
have been placed on the calendar td be
ine nouse, wmcu u
going to press. ; . y y- -: y -'
DISMISS CASES
FILED AGAR
Government;: Drops Charges
of Smuggling in Chinese on
Steamship Mongolia
- la-faifa
(Associstsd Press by Tsdsrsl Vireless)
SAN FRANCISCO, Cat, Sept 21.
On the motion of United States Attor
ney Preston today, Uie government
cases against Immigration - officials
here and members of the crew of the
S. S. Mongolia for smuggling Chinese
into the United States was dismissed.
No less than 29 persons were in
dicted in San Francisco on February
9 Ust being charged with conspiracy
to smuggle Into this country 86 Chi
nese on' board the Pacific Mail liner
Mongolia last October.
Among those indicted were Assist
ant Inspector YT F. Boyce, Inspectors
David Graham, Joseph Strand, Frank
Hayes, W. C. Glendennlng and U J.
Smith, Customs Broker W. H. Thorn e
ley. Purser Hunt of the Mongolia,
First Assistant Purser Scott Steward
Richards, Steerage Steward Wolfe and
Watchman Gerarty, besides 15 Chi
nese. :-.
pineapples; Cimmie Ah Lum was
slightly injured when he fell from a
chute in Kamamalu Park on iFort
street and G. Pinero was bruised
when, he jumped from a moving, street
car at the corner of Keeaumoku and
King streets, v , X X-.;-l'.'.'.;-;,
C.OI0.1TES o;j
UM TO SPEAK
AT SETTlEtffliT
Despatch From Waifuku Says
Permission Granted First
Time in Eight Years
SUr-Bnllstia Spsdal x Ifntnsl Wlrelsss
flVVOTftt -f -f '
'X. y
-f WAILUKU. Maul. Sept 21. -t-f
For the first time in eight years
f Maul - residents who have an- -f
-f nounced themselves as . candl-
dates at the coming primary
4- election will be allowed to ad-"
dress the Inmates of the leper set--f
tlement at Kalaupapa, Molokal, -f
f Permission for the candidates
-f to speak to the Inmates was ob-
- tained from the board of health
by Dr. J. H. Raymond. - It is un-yf
4- derstood that the permission ap- -f
-f plies to candidates of both the
f Republican and Democratic par-.f
-f Ues. . y- - ' yf
-r f V -f f -f -f -f
Kirk B. Porter, secretary of the
board of health, says that7 as far as
he knows, Dr. J. S. B. Pratt presi
dent of the board of health, has sign
ed no permit as vet giving the can
didates permission to speak to those
voters who are . Inmates of the set
tlement' - ,
Secretary Porter points out that
candidates desiring to speak at the
settlement must haye Individual per
mits signed by the president of the
beard. He adds that Dr. Raymond
had a conference with Dr. Pratt while
the former was in Honolulu recently.
But whether this conference was with
regard to permission for the candi
dates to speak is not yet dlflnftely
known." ': v--y--'
llllli
FOUR OF TIGER
World's Champions Jake Third
.Straight Game From
j Jennings' Crew v ,
SSJSfMTaBat'
Ilsseclstsd Press hr Federsl Wlreleu)
)TR01T, Mich, Sept. 21. Boston
practically . cinched the pennant in
the- American League, when they
hammered four Detroit pitchers' for
13 hits and defeated the Detroit Ti
gers In the last game of the series by
a score of 10 to 2.
Detroit sent in their best bet, Har
ry Covaleskie, to stop the ' onrush Jng
Red Sox, . but the leading southpaw
was hit hard, and Jennings ' sent in
Bernle Boland, the relief pitcher. Bo
Iand was jerked also and young Cun
ningham took the mound, and finally
Jean Dubuc, the veteran 'of the
finished thi game. r ; y .- -y y
"Babe" ; Ruth, who has been . pitch
ing good ball for the Red Sox, was on
the mound .for: the - champions and
held the Tigers safe all the way. Un
less there is a big upset and Cleve
land takes the series from Boston,
Carrlgan's, men have, the pennant
cinched. ' r ' L . '-
.- i s. . ' .' , . R. H. E.
Boston 10 13 1
Detroit; .. ......... . 2 7 1
Batteries Ruth and v Thomas; Co
valeskie, ' Boland, Cunningham. Du-
due and Stanage.
AMERICAN LEAGUE.
At Chicago Philadelphia 8. . Chica
go o. v: y. , .
At Cleveland Cleveland 3, Wash
ington 2.
At St. Louis New York 5, St
Louis 4.
NATIONAL LEAGUE.
At New York New York 4, Chlca
go 0." - ' :'
At Boston Cincinnati 5, Boston 4.
At Brooklyn Brooklyn 6, St. Loiis
At Pittsburg Pittsburg 8, Phila
delphia 3. "
AMERICAN LEAGUE
RED SOX HA ER
Won. Lost Pet
Boston . 81 53 587
Detroit . ..,....,. 85 64 - 566
Chicago ... ... . . . . 82 CT 562
St Louis .... .. 76 67 532
New York ......... 74 68 521
Cleveland . ........ 75 70 518
Washington . ...... 71 71 500
Philadelphia . . .. . . 32 110 225
' ' NATIONAL LEAGUE
Won. Lost Pet
Brooklyn . ........ 83 , 55 607
Philadelphia . . .. .. 82 57 590
Bolton . ..... . . . . . 78 56 fS2
New York 75 63 543
Pittsburg ... .. . ... 63 79 451
Chicago . ......... 63 81 438
St Louis . ..." 59 84 413
Cincinnati . .. ..... 56 89 386
REACHES PORT -SAFELY
(AtsoeUted Press br federsl VTirelMs) .
SEATTLE, Wash, Sept 21. The
lumber schooner Inca, reported in dis
tress off Umatilla -reef, has reached
port in safety, v ; . -y .Xy
DATTIFS TIDE TUnilS IH FAVOU OF
DULGARS ADD TEUTONS, SAYS SOFIA
RUMANIANS AND RUSSIANS RESISTING ADVANCES STUB
BORNLY FIERCE ASSAULTS FRENCH AND ENGLISH'
ARE SUCCESSFUL IN WEST REVOLUTION IN CRETE
y X (Aisslsts4 rss Berrlee by FederU ViTelsM
SOFIA, Bulgaria, rkpt. 21. The tide of battle turned hi
favor of the Bulgarians and Teutons in the Fiorina district, it is
claimed here, heavy losses having been inflicted on the Entente forres
in fierce fighting yesterda v. Kumauiah cavalry -participated in the
operations. The report adds that the "plateau waa covered with
enemy dead." " ... :-X.X .X
Rumanians and Russians are stubbornly resisting heavy Teuton
attacks in the Dobrudja sector, and a great battle is reported in
progress. ' i - :''X :-:X "v-y--' ".'X-' ' 1 '
Central Powers Lose Heavily
(AssotUted Press 8errlce by Federal Wireleas
BUCHAREST, Rumania, Sept. 21. The fighting in Dobrudja
province continues with unabated fury from the Danube to the Blacky
fc?ea. Teuton ! and ! Bulgarian 'allies are launching terrific assaults
but all attempts to break through have failed, with heavy losses o
the troops of the central powers. ' y y X ' X X X X
German
Counter
! iu (luocteted Press 8rriem by federsl Wireless) , ,
X LONDON, Eng., Sept. 21. Germans launched a strong couuter
attack today south of Ancre, but were beaten back by the magnificent
fighting of the New Zealand troops, with heavy losses. Bad weather' -still
continues to hamper operations "on the west front. X
French
Teuton
Cant
ure
.... ... aV
X PARIS, France, Sept. 21. French troops in a dashing attack
on the Teuton trenches south of Thiaumont; tiKlay captured j two
portions of defense works and took 100 prisoners. Gains are also .
reported east of Fort Yaux where the Germans" lost 100 yards of
trenches. X:':-.r,;:,y -:Xv.."--.i y VXr.-rX:."" -r v'Xyy-'Xyy ; ::' y X-.:;
Oerlin Renorts Close
y BERLIN, Germany, Sept 21.
idg js going on near Courcelotte. In the fighting southwest, of Ran
iourt French troops lost some ground, but i n counter att acts re "
gained possession. v '"'y'.y- - 'X; X.;'.-. y.Xyy; yn.V y-.:.-y-i
: X XRussians are attacking with strong forces west of Lutsk. With
the exception of the vicinity. of Korynitza, repeated Russian attacks y
hava been beaten 'off, with sanguinary losses.
Revolution Breaks Out in Crete
X ( PARIS, France, Sept. 21. An Athens despatch' gays a 'revoln
t ion has broken out in Crete, and a provisional government has been,-
proclaimed. : ' v- -X.:'" .XVxyy---- X-'-; X"y - i
Feversham
Killed
' LONDON, Eng., Sept. 21. Lieut.-Col. Earl Feversham wa kill
ed in action today leading his regiment in an onslaught on ihe Ger-'
man trenches on the Somme battle front. X" y V- X X X 1
GERMAN OFFICIAL ?
CABLE
; ; ; ' f
German Admiralty Headquarters,
Sept' 20. Tuesday - afternoon 20 Ger
man seaplanes made still another at
tack against the hostile sea forces off
the Flanders coast y One destroyer
was seen to have been hit several
times.' - .' . , ' .- . -Vy
German Army Headquarters, Group
Ruprecht Sept 20. On the battlefield
of Somme there have been no events
of special : Importance. Separate hos
tile attacks were repulsed. Our hand
grenade attack near Flers was success
ful. A delayed report of the attack
by French forces from Clery. on the
evening of September 18 tells of its
repulse. ' ' ' -' -
. Headquarter! of Crown Prince, Sept
20 On the west slope of Mort Homme
the French were driven from the small
piece of trenches they still maintain
ed. ;We, captured 98 'prisoners and
eight' machine guns. ' Our patrols on
the night of the 19th in Champagne
during successful enterprises brought
In 46 French and Russian prisoners.
Last 1 night south of the Rhone canal
we made prisoners pf a large number
of French. . . .
Eastern Theater - Headquarters of
Prince Leopold; Sepf 20. Attacks
against Gen. Von der Marwitz troop
1q the day time were only.' partially
carried out, while in most places the
Russian, infantry could not be moved
forward from their trenches even by
the fire of their own artillery, it was
only In the evening and at night that
strong waves attacked and were re
pulsed with heavy losses. The enemy
which has slightly penetrated pur line
near Szelvov has y been cdmpletely
chased away. .' - "T
: Archduke Carl's Headquarters,
Sept 20. The combat progresses fav
orably. Strong attacks by. the enemy
have - been repulsed, r In the '; Carpa
thians, which are already partially cov
ered with snow, Russian attacks con
tinue.. The enemy has obtained only
Isolated successes. ' '-' - -
Slebenburgen War Theater,-. Sept
Attack
Fails
Defenses
:sX
Continuous hand grenadeXfight
TOSEENATION
IGF
(Associsted Press by fedrsl' Wireless)
LAFAYETTE,- Ind., Sept. 21. Re
publican candidate Charles Evans
Hughesaddressing a large and enthu- .
slastic audience here today, asserted
he desired to see In the United States y
a great driving force imbued with ,
patriotic sentiment", which would fur.
nlsh the. motive power for progress.
"We. want American rights protected
throughout the world, he declared in
outlining the policies' the Republican y
party ' stood for In the coming cam
paign. y .. -.; : y
20. The Rumanians are driven back
beyond Szurd Pass.
Balkan War Theater, Headquarters
of Mackensen.r In Dubrudsha there
has been violent fighting, the tide of
battle fluctuating. The enemy op
popes with most tenacious resistance -and:
is in a position where reinforce- y
ments can be rapidly moved. ;
Macedonia Front Sept 20. Euemy's
attacks were partly repulsed . after
hand to hand fighting, West or Flor- .
iaa our vanguard avoided a- thrust
by the enemy. East of Fiorina our;
surprise attack was successfully r .
- South Belaslca Planlna, Sept 20.-r- y
On the17th the Bulgarians drove, tho
Italians" from .Mataica" and made pris
oners Of five officers and '250 men. - - .
A petition for.the allowance of ac
counts,, determining of the, trust and
digtributing: the , estate - of; the late'.
William K.'Namaau has beeii filed
in the circuit court by Isabelle M.
JJamauu, . executrtc. The . executrl v
'charges hereself . with J407.3. and
asks to be allowed $3998.4 : -
Encair
HUGHES VAWTS
DR
URGE
