POPULATION 19
NORWICH, CONN., THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1916
TEN PAGES 80 COLUMNS
rniut, ivvu
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich otlble That of Any Other Paper, and Its ; Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
VOL LVIII-NO. 228
One of Greatest
Floods on Record
NEARLY A MILLION PEOPLE
MADE HOMELESS
CARMEN STRIKERS BECOME RIOTOUS
Villa May Gut
Garranza Line
Condensed Telegrams
A new war loan by ' Russia is pro
GERMANS VIOLENTLY
posed.
Roast beef in Berlin is 70 cents a
Several Hundred Strikers and Their Sympathizers At
tacked Four Surface Cars in New York
ATTACK THE FRENCI
pound.
Miners throughout Belgian coal
GENERAL BELL SAYS BANDIT'S
FORCE HAS GROWN
fields went on strike.
Three thousand brass-workers of
New York, went on strike.
Cabled Paragraphs
Recognition of Greek Cabinet Asked.
London, Sept. 20, 6:30 p. m. An of
ficial of the Greek foreign office cisit
ed the entente diplomatists at Athens
today, says a Reuter despatch from
the Gree kcapital and Is understood to
have requested them as a matter of
form to recognize the ne wcabinet, ad
ding that the cabinet would subse
quently resign if such a course were
considered inevitable.
MERCHANTS DISCUSSED THE
"RETURNED GOODS EVIL"
In Mass Formations the Teutons Threw Attack After
Attack From 9 A. M. Until Dark
FRENCH ARE EVERYWHERE HOLDING POSITIONS
The Village of Bouchavesnes Was Penetrated by the Ger
mans, But They Were Dislodged by French With the
Bayonet Four Assaults at the Priez Farm, in Which
the Teutons Came On in Waves, Were Repulsed Both
Berlin and Vienna Report the Repulse of Heavy Russian
Attacks in the Lutsk Sector of Volhynia and Southwest
of Lemberg, in Galicia In Transylvania the Rumanians
Have Met With a Serious Reverse The Russians and
Rumanians in Dobrudja Have Been Strongly Reinforced
and the Tide of Battle is Fluctuating The Bulgarians
Have Evacuated Viglitsa, on Western End of Macedonian
Front.
In an effort to retrieve in part their
lost territory, the Germans Wednes
day, despito the baa weather, made
violent counter-attacks against the
French over a three mile front in the
region of the Priez farm and Bouch
avesnes, north of the Somme.
In mass formation the Teutons threw
attack after attack along the line
from nine o'clock In the morning un
til dark and at the end of the day the
French were everywhere holding their
positions, according to Paris, and the
battlefield at points was covered with
German dead.
During the fighting the Germans
penetrated the northeastern part of
the village of Bouchavesnes, but here
the French met them with the bayonet
and dislodged them. Four assaults
at the Pries farm in which the Ger
mans came on in waves wire repulsed
by the French, whose observers as
sert that the Germans at last withdrew-in
disorder, leaving many dead
behind them.
On the British front the inclement
weather still holds the opposing sides
to artillery duels.
In the eastern theatre, in Rus
sia and Galicia. both Berlin and Vi
enna report the repulse of heavy Rus
sian attacks in the Lutsk sector of
Volyhnia and southeast of Lemberg,
In Galicia. Local successes for the
Rusians in the Carpathians are con
ceded by the Teutonic allies, who say,
however, that on the whole the Rus
sian attacks in this region were re
pulsed. Down in Transylvania where the
Turks have been fighting against the
Austro-Hungarians the invaders ap
parently have met with a serious re
verse in the region of Hatszege,
whence they have been driven back
by the Teutonic allies to the Transyl
vanlan Alps and the town of Petroz
ny and the Szurduk Pass, through
which they entered Transylvania in
this region, recaptured from them.
In Dobrudja, where the Russians and
Rumanians have been heavily rein
forced along the line south of the
Constanza railway from the Black sea
to the Danube, the tide of the battle
is fluctuating. Sofia reports sue-1
HUGHES ON PROTECTION
OF AMERICAN RIGHTS.
Views Given Before a Cheering Audi
ence in Milwaukee.
Milwaukee, Wis., Sept. 20. Charles
E. Hughes, before a cheering audi
ence that filled the big auditorium
here tonight, outlined his attitude
toward the protection of American
rights as follows:
"I propose that we shall protect and
enforce American rights on land and
sea without fear and unflinchingly with
respect to American lives. American
property and American commerce. We
have no unstated policies, no secret
understandings, no intrigues. We
stand four-squared to the world, rep
resenting the United States and its
interests alone, first, last and all the
time."
Mr. Hughes reference to American
rights was contained in a speech in
which he made reply, one by one, to
I what he termed democratic claims for
having aided business and outlined the
republican programme. In so doing,
he dealt chiefly with subjects discussed
In President Wilson's epeech of ac
ceptance. The shipping bill was characterized
as "a. menace, the . sooner removed the
belter." The Underwood tariff he
oalled a measure "that must be Tin
clone If we are to have a sure basis of
prosperity In this country." He reit
erated that the anti-trust law, instead
of beme clarified by definition, hod
i been made "mitre uncertain."
ADVISORY COMMITTEE OF
RAILWAY EXECUTIVES MEETS
Eight Hour Law Was Ona of the Im
portant Subjects Discussed.
New Tork, Sept. 20- The Railway
Executives' Advisory Committee,
which comprises the heads of the
jhief railway systems of this country,
Jeld its first session in this city to
lay since the passage of the eight
hour bill. According to several of
Uie conferees, the eight hour law was
inly one of a number of important
lubjects discussed by the committee,
which is planning to meet the joint
sommittee of congress appointed un-
ier the Newlands resolution to inquire
lto railroad regulation. This com
mittee will begin its sessions early in
November.
Frank Trumbull, chairman, presided
It today's session. Among members
i g in attendance was Howard Elliott, of
the New York, New Haven and Hart
lord. ...
cesses for the arms of the Bulgars at
certain points, while Bucharest claims
a victory for the Rumanians near Eni"
sea.
The western end of 'the Macedonian
front is still the scene of violent com
bats. The Bulgarians, according to
Athens have hastily evacuated Viglit
sa, at the extreme end of the line
and fallen back upon Svedsa for a
stand in previously prepared entrench
ments which, if captured, will neces
sitate the evacuation of Monastir, Ser
t 4
Berlin reports that the Germans,
ivho are co-operating with the Bul
gars, have repulsed entente thrusts
near Flor'.na, Greece. Rome admits
that the Italians on the southern slope
of Monte Beles have been driven back
by the Bulgarians. Artillery fighting
predominates on the British and
French fronts. . . -
Aside" from bombardments and ioc
lated infantry attacks, . the situation
remains unchanged on the Carso front
of the Austro-Italian theatre, where
the Italians are trying to reach
Trieste.
Constantinople records successes for
the Ottoman forces over the Russians
and British, respectively, in Persia
and along the Tigris.
GREECE MAKES FIRM
DEMAND UPON GERMANY
For Release of Greek Troops Now In
terned in Germany.
London, Sept. 20, 8.15 p. m. Reu
ter's Telegram Company says it learns
that the Greek note to Germany is a
very firm demand that - the Greek
troops be brought to the Swiss fron
tier in order that they may be con
ducted .to a Mediterranean port, from
which they will be taken to Greece.
The Greek government guarantees that
they will not be forced to serve against
any enemy of Germany and at the
same time disavows entirely the ac
tion of General Hadjopoulos, who, it
is claimed disregarded orders to trans
port his troops to another Greek
port.
WILSON VIEWS ON PROHIBITION
IS AN ISSUE IN CALIFORNA.
Wets Claim He Favors Temperance,
But is Opposed to Prohibition.
San Francisco, Cal., Sept. 20.
Whether President Wilson is opposed
to prohibition became an issue in
California's heated wet and dry tight
today with the return to the state of
the coast-to-coast prohibition cam
paign train.
Assertion made in a "wet" pamphlet
freely distributed at the prohibition
meetings along the San Joaquin valley
today that the president is among
eleven widely known Americans, in
cluding former President Taft and
Cardinal Gibbons, who "favor temper
ance but oppose prohibition," was
questioned by Dr. Ira Landrith, the
prohibition vice presidential candi
date. Later tonight Oliver W. Stew
art, national campaign manager for the
prohibitionists, telegraphed . the presi
dent asking if the "wets" here were
misrepresenting his attitude.
"The president will not defy the
Buffrage lightnings of the nineteen dry
states" wrath' said Landrith, "by con
firming the accusation that lie is op
posed to prohibition in any state. Let
him make such a pro-liquor declara
tion, and his defeat is as sure as his
friends now believe his election is cer
tain. But this official charge that he
Is an anti-prohlbitlonist must now be
disclaimed or his silence will be inter
preted as assent."
J. Frank Harrly, the prohibition
presidential candidate, continued his
attack of Charles E. Hughes for his
silence on the liquor question and ap
pealed to all voters fo support of the
prohibition platform, which he termed
as comprehensive as any on issues
other than the liquor question.
"YOUNG MEN'S DAY"
AT SHADOW LAWN
Wilson to Address the Democratio
League on September 30.
New Tork, Sept, 20. President
Wilson, it was announced here to
night, will address members of the
Young Men's Democratic League at
Shadow Lawn, (Long Branch, N? J., on
Sept. 30, which has been designated by
the democratic national committee as
"Young Men's Day." The president,
it was said, would make a special ap
peal for the support of all young men
throughout the country. According to
the national committee, the Young
Men's Democratic League has organ- ,
izations in forty states.
Cases Cited Where Women Have Kept
Gowns Four to Six Weeks.
New York, Sept, 20. Need for leg
islation in individual states to end the
"returned goods evil" was discussed
here today by merchants from every
part of the country at the closing
session of the National Retail Dry
Goods Association's convention. ,
Many of the merchants complained
that goods returned by prospective
purchasers frequently . are unsalable,
while others cited instances where wo
men had kept gowns and other arti
cles in their homes from four to six
weeks before deciding on the purchase.
In the latter case, it was pointed out,
styles had changed by the time the
goods were returned and prices had to
be changed accordingly.
Legislation was advocated also to
prevent the return of goods from
houses having cases of infectious dis
eases. The majority of merchants favored
the discontinuance of discounts to
clergymen and policemen for purchas
es. SHORT CIRCUIT CAUSED
$20,000 FIRE IN HARTFORD
Occurred on an Automobile, Being
Used as a Demonstrator.
Hartford, Conn., Sept. 20. Damage
by fire and water to stock and build
ing, variously estimated at from $15,
000 to $20,000 in the comparatively
short sipace of thirty minutes was the
result of a fire which got a flying
start when a short circuit occurred on
a car used as a demonstrator in the
show room of the Capitol City Auto
company, corner of High and Allyn
streets, over which an employee, was
experimenting today.
When firemen arrived on the scene
flames were shooting half way across
both Allyn and High streets and black
smoke was pouring from the upper
windows in dense clouds. The flames
were confined to the east end of the
buildings. A large number of auto
mobiles and accessories were in the
building.
TO PRESS BLACKMAILERS
OF MRS. REGINA KLIPPER
Case to be Tried Before a Month In
Federal Court in New York.
Washington, Sept. 20. Federal
agents who have been at work in
Chicago, New York, Philadelphia and
Washington investigating" the so-called
blackmailing syndicate, virtually
agreed in a conference at the depart
ment of justice tonight to concentrate
the prosecution at this time against
those charged specifically with black
mailing Mrs. Regina S. Klipper of
Philadelphia. The case probably will
be pressed to trial within a month in
the federal court in New York. The
defendants in the ease probably will
be removed to New York at once for
the trial.
BUSINESS SECTION OF
ERIE, MICH., BURNED
Nino Stores, Ten Houses and a Score
of Sheds Loss $100,000.
Erie, Mich., Sept. 20. Nine stores,
ten houses and a score of sheds were
destroyed here late this afternoon by
a fire originating in a blasksmith shop
on the main street. Fire apparatus
sent from Toledo, Ohio, twelev miles
south, assisted the fire department of
Monroe in extinguishing the blaze.
The store buildings destroyed com
prised virtually the entire business
section of the town.
The loss is estimated at $100,000.
PROMINENT MEN AT
FUNERAL OF SETH LOW
Educational and Financial Institu
tions Strongly Represented.
New York, Sept. 20. Men of nation
wide prominence .representatives of
educational and financial institutions
and delegates from civic, historical
and political organizations, paid tri
bute to the memory of Former Mayor
Seth Low at his funeral here today.
Among the prominent men present
were Goevrnor Whitman, Mayor
Mitchel, J. P. Morgan, Elihu Root,
Samuel Gompers, George W. Perkins
and Alton B. Parker. The interment
was in Greenwood Cemetery.
OFFICERS OF DEMOCRATIC
STATE CENTRAL COMMITTEE
A. S. Lynch of Orange to Serve as a
State Organizer.
New Haven, Conn., Sept. 20. The
newly elected democratic state cen
tral committee this afternoon re-elected
David E. FitzGerald, state chair
man, P. B. O'Sullivan, of Derby, secretary-treasurer,
and A. S. Lynch of
Orange assistant secretary under a
salary. The last named will serve as
a state organizer. No other business
was done.
GREAT BRITAIN REGRETS
HOLDING UP OF THE CEBU
Destroyer Commander Did Not Know
Vessel Was So Near Shore.
Washington, Sept. 20. Great Britain
today formally expressed to the Unit
a British dsetroyer in holding up and
examining the Philippine steamer Ce
bu within the territorial waters of the
Philippines. Because of a heavy fog,
It was explained, the desortyer"s com
mander did not know the vessel was so
near shore.
Investigating Occupational Diseases.
Hartford, Conn., Sept. 20. An
nouncement was made at the capitol
today that Pr. Mary Hamilton, an in
vestigator of the United States bureau
of labor, is now in Connecticut mak
ing inquiries at various factories as to
the prevalence of occupational dis
eases. t. O. O. F. Meets Next In Louisville
Chattanooga, Tenn., Sept. 20. The
sovereign grand lodge of Odd Fellows
today selected Louisville as the meet
ing place in 1917. An amendment to
admit minprs to membersbiD was defeated.
ANHUI PROVINCE, CHINA
Area of About 7,000 Square Miles In
undated All Autumn crops Destroy
ed Appeals for Help Sent Out.
Washington, Sept. 20. Nearly a
million people have been made home
less by one of the greatest floods on
record in that section of China where
the American Red Cross already has
spent $600,000 for flood protection and
where the $30,000,000 loan for reclama
tion work, which was postponed by
the war, was to have been spent. Re
ports to the state department today
from the American consul at Nanking
said the Hwai river had inundated
an area of about 7,000 square miles in
Anhui province. Appeals for aid have
been sent out for the homeless, who
virtually are entirely dependent on
charity, as all the autumn crops were
destroyed.
The flood occurred in a very flat, al
luvial section where the north-to-south
passage of the Grand Canal had
dammed up a large lake and allowed
the Hwai river too little space to car
ry off the excess of water. Today's
delayed advices described conditions
several weeks ago, but officials believe
there probably has been little im
provement. In the case of previous
floods in that district the waters have
been held for long periods by the
alluvial soil.
WILSON CONGRATULATES
WILLIAM F. M'COMBS
Predicts Victory for the Democratio
Ticket in New York in November.
Long Branch, N. J., Sept. 20. Vic
tory for the democratic ticket in New
York state in the November elections
was predicted by President Wilson
tonight following the receipt of re
turns from the primaries held yester
day. The president indicated his be
lief that progressive voters in New
York will support the democrats.
Taking his first active part in the
campaign, Mr. Wilson sent telegrams
of congratulation to William F. Me
Combs, the democratic nominee for
the United States senate, and to Judge
Samuel Seabury, the nominee for gov
ernor. The message to Mr. McCombs fol
lows: "I congratulate you most warmly on
your nomination by the democrats of
New York for the United States sen
ate, . A united ' body of progressive
voters will be behind you."
CALDER LEADS BACON
IN NEW YORK PRIMARY.
If Calder Wins It Will Be Because of
Heavy Support in New York City.
New York, Sept. 20. With returns
missing from only about 350 districts
in the state, most of them in remote
rural sections, William M. Calder had
a lead tonight of approximately 7,000
votes over Robert Bacon, his rival for
the nomination for United States sen
ator in the republican primary yester
day. Indications were that the rela
tive standing of the two candidates
would not be materially changed by
the complete returns. Nearly 200 of
the districts lacking were from coun
ties where the vote was comparatively
light.
If Calder wins the nomination it
will be because of the heavy vote cast
for him in Greater New York, where
complete returns gave him 54,844 as
compared with 21,418 for Bacon. In
the upstate counties Bacon ran far
ahead of his opponent. In 3,250 of the
3,640 upstate districts he received 112,
779 votes and Calder only 86,41.8. The
primary vote was relatively much
lighter in New York city than in the
other counties of the state.
AUGUST REPORT OF THE
STATE HEALTH BOARDS
Falling Off in Typhoid Fever, Measles,
Scarlet Fever and Whooping Cough
Hartford, Conn., Sept. 20. Wnile
typhoid fever, measles, scarlet fever
and whooping cough all showed a fall
ing off in the number of cases during
August, according to the state health
board's report published today there
were 367 cases of infantile paralysis
in the state during the m,onth and 99
deaths, as compared with 165 cases
and 37 deaths in July. There were 96
cases of typhoid fever in August as
compared with 266 cases during Aug
ust of 1915.
Total deaths in August numbered
1,684, making the death rate for the
month 16.3 per thousand. The ave
rage death rate for August for last
five years has been 15.1. There were
433 deaths of babies under one year.
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST
PARALYSIS AT HARVRD
Students Who Have Been Exposed to
the Disease Barred from Classes.
Cambridge, Mass., Sept. 20. Har
vard University authorities took stsps
today to prevent the possible lntroduc.
tion of infantile paralysis when the
institution opens Sept. 25. Cards have
been prepared asking the students
whether they have been exposed to
the disease. Those who have been ex
posed will be barred from classes, it
was stated.
ACCEPTS CHALLENGE OF
WILSON COLLEGE MEN'S LEAGUE
Hughes National College League Will
Enter Series of Debates.
New York, Sept. 20. The challenge
of the National Woodrow Wilson Col
lege Menjs League for a series of de
bates on the issues of the present na
tional political campaign has been ac
cepted by the Hughes National Col
lege League, republican national
headquarters announced tonight. The
Hughes league has appointed a com
mittee to meet a committee of the
Wilson league to arrange details.
First Snow In Maine,
Phillips, Maine, Sept. 20. The first
snow of the season in Maine was re
ported today from Saddleback Moun
tain in the Rangeley Lakes region.
The precipitation measured more than
an Inch.
SINCE CHIHUAHUA FIGHT
Mexican-American Joint Commission
Will Arrive at No Agreement Until
an Official Account of Battle Arrives.
San Antonio, Tex., Sept. 20. Belief
that Francisco Villa will soon cut the
Oarranza line of communica,tions be
tween Chihuahua City and Juarez, if
he has not already done so, was sug
gested by Major General Funston to
dav after he had read a report on
Villa's Chihuahua engagement re
ceived by Brigadier General Bell at El
Paso.
Stories gathered by General Bell
from persons reaching El Paso from
the interior " indicate that General
Trevino's forces were driven out of
Chihuahua City in Villa's Saturday
night attack, and that they took sta
tion on a large hill outside the city
from necessity, and not from choice,
as previous reports said. From this
hill they succeeded, by the use of ar
tillery, in dislodging the Villistas.
Funston Withholds Details.
General Funston- refused to give out
all details of the Bell report for pub
lication, but he said that it confirmed
previous accounts of the battle and in
dicated even more serious conditions
than were admitted by the Carranzis
tas. "It seems that they had quite a
holiflay down there,'' said the general.
Threatens Carranza Line
General Bell's report said that Villa's
force last Saturday was estimated at
from 500 to 1,700 men. General Fun
ston believes this force has grown
since the Chihuahua battle. He said
that. In this case, the logical step for
Villa to take would be the severing of
the line of communications between
Chihuahua and Juarez. This would
give him control of the Mexico North
western railroad and, the general add
ed, "the garrisons to the north would
have to look out,"
Rumors of New Villa Attack.
El Paso, Tex., Sept. 20. Rumors
were current here today that Chihua
hua City was captured by Villa In a
second attack lats night. General
Francisco Gonzales, commandant at
Juarez, and Consul Garcia declared the
rumors were without foundation.
JOINT COMMISSION IS
AWAITING INFORMATION.
Will. Not Enter Into Any Agreement
Pending Its Arrival.
New London. Conn., Sept. 20. Until
an official account of the reported at
tack on Chihuahua by Villa forces is
received hv thp M&vifan.Amoyino
joint commission, its members will not
tiiier lino any agreement ona plan for
the maintenance of peace on the bor
der, it was learned tonight.
The American ijbmmissioners con
ferred at length late today with Coun
sellor Polk of the state department,
who was on his way back to Washing
ton from Maine. Prior to the confer
ence the American representatives
spread before the Mexican commis
sioners a mass of documentary evi
dence relating to conditions in Mex
ico. The submission of the information in
possession of the Americans was
somewhat in the nature of rebuttal to
information that had been offered by
the Mexicans. The reports placed be
fore the commission by the Mexican
representatives have been of a char
acter calculated to depict a rapidly
recovering country and to offset stories
that credit the government authorities
in various localities with lack of con
trol and efficiency.
VILLA FORCES ELUDE
GOVERNMENT CAVALRY
Have Taken Refuge in the Mountains
South of Santa Fe Ysabela.
Chihuaiua City, Mexico, Sept. 20.
The Villa forces which recently at
tacked Chihuahua City have succeed
ed in eluding government cavalry
pursuing them and have taken refuge
in the Sierra de la Silla and the Ci
enga de los Ladrone mountains, south
of Santa Fe Ysabela, Chihuahua, ac
cording to General Matia Ramos, who
returned here today from the pursuit.
Reports brought here by ranchmen
say that Jose Inez Salazar, Mexico's
"perpetual revolutionist," accomp
anied the band on its retreat and that
Villa announced that, owing to con
tinued illness, he intends turning over
his command to Salazar temporarily.
General Jacinto Trevino announced
that every effort would be made to ap
prehend the outlaws.
SIMULTANEOUS REBEL
ATTACKS IN MEXICO
Made on Guadalajara, Tampico and
Vera Cruz on Sept. 16.
Chihuahua City, Mex., Sept. 20.
Revolutionary attacks were made on
Guadalajara, Tampico and Vera Cruz
on Sept. 16, simultaneously with Vil
la's Hidalgo day attack upon this city,
according to reports received here to
day by General Jacinto Trevino. No
details were received.
Statements were issued at the eom
mandcia today denying border reports
that Villa had made a second attack
upon the town yesterday and that
there had been defections in the gar
rison. It was said also that no arms
or ammunition were seized in the
Hidalgo day engagement and that the
government forces captured from the
bandits a quantity of high powertsi
rifles and cartridges which apparently
had been manufactured in the United
States.
BRIDE OF FOUR DAYS
ACCIDENTALLY SHOT DEAD
Stood by the Side of Her Husband
When Her Sister Pulled Trigger.
Eastbrook, Maine, Sept. 20. Mrs.
Naca J. Huntley, a bride of four days,
was killed in a pasture today when
a five-year-old child . of her sister's
picked up a shotgun and pulled the
trigger accidentally. The charge
passed through the bride's forehead aa
she stoodjrtJie-Bide of her husband.
Car shortage in Pittsburgh is report-
by railroad men to be the worst ever
known.
The Kaiser decorated Crown Prince
Frederick William with the - Order
Pour le Merite.
ended Aug. 31 totaled 215,199 tons
against 171,786 in 1915.
The vote on commission government
at Lambertville, N. J., resulted in 150
majority for the measure.
Exports from New York to ten
nrinrinal countries totaled $26,705,362
for the week ended Sept. 16.
One hundred thousands, dollars in
o-niri was withdrawn from the sub-
Treasury for shipment to Spain.
Heavy frosts and a temperature of
30 degrees were reported from points
along the south shore of Lake Erie.
The steamship City of Pueblo, re
turned to New York, after more than
30 years of service in Pacific waters.
The small-arms plant of the Rock
Island, 111., arsenal is to be reopened
next Monday, after layinf idle for four
years.
Searchlights were used in an effort
to find the body of Louis Alley,
drowned at Rye Beach, N. Y., while
bathing.
The fire aboard the British steam
ship Bendu, which arrived at Cape
Town, Africa, tro mMontreal, was ex
tinguished. Leroy Starbuck of Saratoga Springs,
was Killed when nis automoDiie over
turned on the state highway near
Chestertown, N. Y.
Private John Clyne, Second Mis
souri Regiment, was shot and killed
by a military guard at Dolores as the
result of an altercation.
Bishop Thomas J. Shahan, rector of
the Catholic university, was re-eiectea
president or ine iationai uuiumbuuo
of Catholic Charities.
Ministers representing Norway and
Sweden met at Christiania for the
time since 1905 to discuss problems
that have arisen from the war.
A proposed ordinance fixing 16
ounces as the standard weight for a
loaf of bread in New York city, was
discussed by the Board of Aldermen.
Two hundred employes of the Rhode
Island Glass company of Central Falls
went on strike after their demand for
an eight hour day had been refused,
One of the biggest water supply
pipes, feeding the entire Bronx nor
ough, burst at North White Plains and
millions of gallons of water were lost.
Angered because of proposed changes
to be made in housing the convicts
on Blackwell's Island, 900 prisoners
started on a near riot in the peniten
tiary. It was reported from the German
frontier that the German government
intends to expel 10,000 Italians in re
prisal for the treatment of Germans in
Italy.
Seventy Cornell students, with com
plete military equipment, arrived at
Lake George, after a march of more
than 10 miles from the Plattsburg
camp.
Seven new cases of infantile para
lysis were reported to the state board
of health yesterday, making the total
so far reported since the outbreak at
690.
The Chinese Finance Minister ad
mitted that a $5,000,000 loan agree
ment was signed with Japanese bank
ers upon security of the Yangtse Val
ley mines.
The Germans have fined the Belgian
towns of Jemeppe-sur-Sambre and
Moustier-Sur-Sambre $10,000 each be
cause enemy fliers dropped bombs in
their vicinity.
The Bureau of Weights and Meas
ures, investigating the bread situation
in New York was informed that 150
bakers had been forced out of business
in the past 30 days.
The record price for a dairy bull was
paid at Batavia, N. Y., when Flint P.
Smith sold the great Holstein sire,
King Segis Pontiac to Fred F. Field, of
Brockton, Mass., for $35,000.
Dr. Amos O. Squire, who formerly
gave treatment to Sing Sing convicts
with radium furnished by Frank A.
Vanderlip, and afterward acted as
prison physician, has resigned.
Rabindranith Tagore, poet of India,
who was awarded the Nobel prize for
literature and who was knighted by
the King of England in 1913, arrived
at Seattle for a tour of the United
States.
Five delegates to the International
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners
convention at Fort Worth, Texas, were
named a committee to consider the
suspension of the 15,00 New York car
penters. Representatives of the National As
sociation of Master Bakers, appeared
before the Chicago Women's Associa
tion of Commerce and spoke in justi
fication of their proposed increase in
the price of bread.
The federal district court of New
York decided that the De Forest Ra
dio: Telephone and Telegraph com
pany had infringed upon the so-called
Fleming patent for an instrument
for converting electric currents.
Fred Gonderf, wire tapping king, pa
roled from West Meadow Prison is
confined in the Renneselaer county
jail on a charge of assaulting Robert
J. Bancroft and John Walsh, conductor
and', trainman of a Boston and Albany
train at Troy.
-J. H. Wright, said to be a prominent
business man in Bridgeport, was ar
rested by the police at New Haven
yesterday for the Bridgeport authori
ties. It is said he is charged with
the larceny of 7,500 pounds of alumin
um wire from munitions factory In
Bridgeport,
ENGAGED IN RUNNING
Several Persons Were Hurt and
Police Trapped a Man Who Tried to Purchase Explosives
From a Laborer on a New Subway Excavation Hope
of Averting the Threatened Strike of 700,000 Union
Workers Has Diminished Mayor MitcheFs Appeal to
Heads of Transit Companies to Treat With Strikers Met
With Flat Refusal Union Leaders Are Continuing
Preparation for the "Walkout" Wives of Strikers Are
to Act as Pickets.
New York, Sept. 20'. Rioting was
renewed here tonight in connection
with the car strike, after efforts of
Mayor Mitchel and others had failed
during the day to effect a settlement
of the differences. Several hundred
strikers and their sympathizers, who
attacked four surface- cars, engaged
in a running fight with police re
serves, during which several persons,
including a woman, were hurt. Many
arrests were made.
Conspiracy to Use Dynamite.
What the police characterized as a
conspiracy to use dynamite in the
strike was frustrated by the arrest of
a man who asserted he was a strik
ing motorman. The prisoner. It was
said, had attempted to purchase ex
plosives from a laborer in a new
subway excavation. The latter re
ported the case to the authorities, who
set a trip for the striker. When ar
rested at the laborers' home tonight
after two dummy packages made up
in the form of dynamite had been
passed to him, the prisoner is alleged
to have declared he sought the explo
sives to "blow up" a couple of Broad
way cars.
Clearing Roof Tops.
When Police Commissioner Woods
was told today that six-year-old Louis
Rodelli was dying, a victim of a brick
hurler, he redoubled his efforts at
clearing roof tops contiguous to the
traction lines and went into confer
ence with District Attorney Swann
to provide for the speedy punshment
of such offenders. The commssoner
issued a warning to the strikers that
ALARMING ADVANCE IN
THE COST OF LIVING
Merchants and Producers Have
Gloomy Outlook For Coming Winter.
Chicago, Sept. 20. Prices of foods,
clothes, luxuries and materials have
advanced alarmingly within the last
year, according to a table of compar
ative prices compiled here today.
Merchants and producers say that
prices for food will be even higher
this winter.
Every person feels the increased
price in practically every purchase, it
was said. Food prices vary accord
ing to quantity and quality. For the
small purchaser at retail they are
higher. Wholesalers said that can
ning houses all over the country have
announced that their deliveries will
be only a third of the normal amount.
The vegetable crop, it was declared,
only half what was expected.
Canned fruits will be 30 per cent,
higher and canned vegetables will be
advanced from 15 to 20 per cent., ac
cording to wholesalers. Paper bags,
which a year ago could be purchased
in wholesale lots for 95 cents, now cost
$1.55. The advance is typical of all
paper and paper products.
Cigar jobbers raised their prices
this week. Five cent cigars which the
dealer had been getting for $31 or $32
a thousand, have been advanced to
$35. Better grades of cigars also
have been advanced.
Cotton goods have advanced between
25 and 35 per cent. Woolens also have
kept pace with cottons. In the best
lines of women's shoes the prices have
almost been doubled, dealers said.
QUEBEC BRIDGE DEATHS
FOUND TO BE ACCIDENTAL
Cause of the Disaster Was the Break
ing of a Supporting Casting.
Quebes, Sept. 30. A verdict of ac
cidental death was returned by the
coroner's jury here today at the in
quest into the loss of thirteen lives of
workmen in the collapse of the central
span o fthe Quebec bridge on Sep
tember 11. The question of the re
sponsibility and of the reliability of
the construction methods used in the
attempt to hoist the span into place
were not considered in the findings as
being outside the province of the cor
oner .although testimony was taken
showing that the immediate cause of
the disaster was the breaking of the
southwest supporting casting.
There was also expert testimony to
the effect that the hoisting jacks
were not responsible and that the
span did not buckle until it was tilt
ed and strained in a manner it was
not intended to withstand. The same
methods of elevating the span, it was
testified by expert, would probably be
used whe na new link is put in place
though the socket casting would be of
different material.
28 PER CENT. INCREASE IN
PRODUCTION OF PIG IRON
29,915,213 Tons of All Grades Turned
Out During the Year 1915.
New York, Sept. 20. A production
of 29,915,213 tons of pig iron of all
grades, an increase of 28 per cent, for
the year 1915, is announced in the
annual statistical report of the Amer
ican Iron and Steel Institute. Steel
ingots and castings reached S2.151,
036 tons, or an increase of 36 per
cent., while rolled iron and steel rails
show an increase of 13 per cent., plates
28 per cent., merchant bars 63 per
cent., rolled forging WUets 9 (per
cent, and blooms billets for exuort
511 per cent. There is a grand total,
the report states, of 449 blast, furnaces
with an aggregate capacity of 46,716,
325 tons annually. Production of roll
ed iron and steel amounted to 24,392,
9i24. an Increase of 83, perjeentj
FIGHT WITH POLICE
Many Arrests Were Made
all mi3sile-throwers hereafter arrest
ed will be given the extreme penalty.
Preparations for Sympathetic Strike
Hope of averting the threatened
strike of 700,000 union workers here in.
sympathy with the carmen was di- .
minished. Mayor Mitchel announced
that a personal appeal he had made to
heads of the transit companies to
treat with the strikers had met with
a flat refusal. Meantime preparations
were continued by union leaders for
the "walkout" which, if carried out, .
may paralyze industry throughout the
greater city.
Apparently the only chance now of
calling off the union officials in their
determination "to tie up New York"
by Monday next, it was said tonight,
lies in a conference to be held tomor
row between a citizens' committee and
the strike leaders.
Gompers at Conference.
Samuel Gompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor and
25 presidents of international unions
who arrived today, held a conference,
but no definite action was taken re
garding a general strike. It was said
they would meet again Friday.
Wives to Act as Pickets.
Approximately 10,000 women, wives
of the striking carmen and members
of trade unions, it was announced to
night, will act as pickets, beginning
tomorrow. It was said they contem
plated riding on subway and elevated
railway trains in efforts to induce the
motormen and guards to desert their
posts and join the union. -
TICKET NOMINATED BY
DEM. STATE CONVENTION
Cummings for Senator Morris B.
Beardsley for Governor. ,
New Haven, Sept. 20. The Demo
cratic state convention today put this
ticket into the field:
For United States Senator' Homer
S. Cummings of Stamford.
For Governor Morris B. Beardsley
of Bridgeport.
For Lieutenant Governor Francis
P. Guilfoyle of Waterbury.
For Secretary of State Frederick
E. Duffy of West Hartford.
For Treasurer George Ulrich of
Hartford.
For Comptroller Alton T. Miner ot
New London.
The presidential electors will be
named by the state central commit
tee. The 'resolutions adopted praised
President Wilson's and his adminis
tration, reiterates faith in the Demo
cratic principles and points to na
tional legislation as evidence of ad
herence to party pledges. In state
matters changes in the workmen's
compensation law, restoration of the
civil service law to its former scope
and strengthening of the corrupt
practices law are advocated. Equal
suffrage had a separate plank favor
submission to the people of the ques
tion of enfranchisement of women.
DISASTER CAUSED BY
TANNWALD DAM FLOOD
250 Persons Known to Have Perished
Many of Them Children.
Reichenberg, Bohemia, Sept. 20, Via
Berlin to London, 6:15 p. m. The se
riousness of Monday's flood disaster
caused by the bursting of the Tann-;
wald dam, grows as the water sub--sides
and investigation becomes pos
sible. In addition to the known 250.
dead, whose bodies, including those of.,
many children, already have been re--'
covered, it is feared that many others
lost their lives, as it is believed prob
able that numerous persons were
caught in houses that were swept from
their foundations.
The property damage cannot yet bs
estimated with any accuracy. Glass'
making establishments and other In
dustries suffered very heavily. In
Dessendorf, for instance, a wood-carving
shop was swept away with Its en
tire force of 20 employes and destroy
de. CURTAILMENT OF BALLOT
ASKED TO SAVE PAPER
Request Made - by Newspapers
Throughout Iowa.
Des Moines, Iowa, Sept. 20. At a
meeting today of the Iowa state ex
ecutive council took cognizance of the
shortage in print paper. Newspapers
throughout the state in various coun
ty seats where the specimen ballot for
the next general election will be
printed have requested the councilj
that the ballot be held down to the
least possible space, on account of the.
shortage of waste paper.
GRAND JURY TO CONSIDER
CASE OF MRS. GILLIGAN
Woman Charged With Murdering Five
Former Patients,
Hartford, Conn., Sept. 8. When the
grand jury meets here tomorrow one)
of the most important oases to be eon. j
sidered will be that of Mrs, Army E, !
Archer-Gilligan, charge with mur-)
dering five' former patients of hep,
home for aged people at Windsor. Mrs.;
Gilligan will be brought from the,
county yjl, where she has been con-1
fined since her arrest on May 8, to tbs,
qounty building, ' -1
