rjr.wm*'; r
Do You Play Poller?
Read Lewis's famous Stories
Every Sunday in the T.-D.
fuctimonift ?mes --D isjmt ch
Sports for All
Experts Cover Every Branch
for The Times-Dispatch.
H6th YEAR
voi.iJMr. ?w
m 11 hi:it 'Mr,
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1916. ?FOURTEEN 1 AGES.
u Kvr.u.u ?FAIR
PRICE, TWO CENTS
Oil
Addresses Enthusiastic Meeting
in Home Town of Congress
man Slemp.
MATTER'S RECORD ATTACKED
democratic Candidate Goes to
Washington- County To-Day
to Make Speeches.
I Ry Staff Correspondent j
S'T?i.\!?: <; a 1 \ v.\ . s..,.t..rni?.r
-n.~ While Representative f Ra scorn
M?nn>. ,,f tiii- Ninth Virginia Distri.-t,
"hilod away tlx- hours discreetly
'',or,,,> "f his mountain homo a f'-w
Mocks k. Leo Trlnklo. nornl
"???*? !?: tho D,,?onat, s,u.ccefl
him In Congress, invaded tho enemy's
stronghold to-day an-1 delivered a tlr
ilng rwhlrovs- to r,n overflow cathoring
at t)i< 1oi*a) theater.
N'tn t h Hist ri':t D.... ts entertain
no 'loliiHinrm about Wise County. ft
ba*. consistently returned Republican
majorities varying from 200 to r.n. ,j0_
snRe 'v?ry effort to change tho county's
polftir-,] completion. \*a ? t | PI ,*p_
o t;r. ow,u.,t t.v Vorthorn ..ipitril with
Republican anilljiti.,,, piay their P!ll,
nn.l until nr,.s??t vo;,r thn J
ha* ?|vn i
? ?'?tnoera ts little
fT jubilation
"N'' Trinkle entered ?(,r Wise
o'lnt c.,.,1 (>it n i ,vj,h misgivings,
' 11 "',',"u;lv reassured. Although
?io spoke at 11 ..'clock in the morning
? n an off-.lav, towiiMiifn lr ft tticlr
busine** and farmer.', crime from mile
around to hear the WytheviHo man's
?lessage, aii<i the applause that ;? i o. ,_.j
his unpparing critici-ms of Mr. Slemp'a
<"on gresslona I career Cavc Democrat!,
lea.lorn cause to believe that, after
.'>nc. long time. Wise, rock-ribbed Re
publican Wlso, fa coming gingerly back
into the I ?enio. ratie column.
I N \ \SIO> HOItDCItS
ON 'llli; |)|( \ \| \ 'CIO
i he li.'-.iy;,,,, hor?|.'t..| on the dm
' Mr- an*I Mr. Trlnkl.,
?aoh.'.J TUw Stone Cap the -;imc ?iuy,
?i- 1?*? r?\i 1.1 i. a n <-anipHi{m manager an -
,hat his chief was indisposed
? n.l had been ordered by his phyr-i. ian
to remain at home. It was Mr.
"rinkle's first invasion of Mr. Slemp's
??wn homo town and the latfr's liou
lonatits kept close tab on the proceed
at til* theater.
Ifero assembled an audience of about
?" Democrat *? a:..J i .. Republn an
were all t.-.keu when tli.
1,p-a,:- ;i?"l i.'t liner.* .stood
!? in the aisles in the audience were
.. sister of Representative Slemp and a
??insuof the Republican national
committeeman from Virginia. Alvah II.
?fartin. Both men came in for sharp
riticlsm l.v tho speaker, arid those who
M?ew the identity of the visUii.R women
Miicvv ..urious glan.es in tlit.*ir dire -
1 ion- *''? ''''inkle did tint learn of
their presence until after the meet.
n g
Long years of a ut. party uvahy
have imparted to Ninth Instrict poll
lies a tar.K that Is wholly lacking in
the politics of other sections of tlja
State. Speakers employ unsparing In:-.,
vua^-e and receive from the opposition
!>ay in the same coin
A OIJItKSSrCS HtMSKI.l'
TO 'ril|.; ^| \ | \ l"!?l'I"S
Mr. Trlnklo addressed himself dl
rcctly to tlu main issues. With Mr.
Slcinp as a candidate to su.^eeti ;ho
incumbent, he said, no other c.urso
was open than to show how the present
Congressman from the Ninth has failed
to measure up to his duty to his dis
trict how lie has consistently lined
up, in his vole on every Important na
tional measure. <>n tho side favorable
io the interests and detrimental to tho
inas.-.os it was h s duty to represent.
These, charges Mr. Trinkle foitlfied,
one. by one, by citations from the re
uorded vote on every important meas
ure. Outburst after outburst of ap
plause (j roe ted his remarks, liven
from far in the rear of the hall, where
tho Republicans had grouped them
selves. there were signs of frequent
a pproval.
Mr. Trinkle was introduced by R.
Tate Irvine, who told the gathering
that ne\cr before in the history of
W ise County democracy were pros
pects so bright. There is an unmis
takable tendency, he said, among Re
publicans of the thinking class to
question seriously Mr. Slemp's service
to the district, and defection is already I
noticeable in many quarters, he tie- '
dared. The meeting was opened by
< >ooi ge I,. Taylor, precinct chairman. j
iias covkiii:i> i, \iM.i-:
aijka ok distinct i
Afier three weeks of ciLinpaigning,
Mr. Trinkle has covered a large, area
"f the Ninth District, which measures
tip territorially to nearly th? size of
Switzerland. Kveryw here, even in sec
tions where Republicanism is rtim
pant ami in other sections inhabited
b> _ lloalers," who arc notoriously on
the fence as regards politics, the Dent- j
oeratic candidate has been received
with a degree of cordiality not ac- '
corded in the same degree lo anv other i
aspirant in years.
To-morrow Mr. Trinkle will swing!
)V?shinglon County, where he will
spend the remainder of the week On
Saturday he will bo. joined bv Cov
ernor Stuarl. a, niackwol, Chapel !
? here an all-day celebration will bring
o?^CTtr^if,? ?U' ,Hr?^ numbers,
"niapoak. Mr. Trh,kl0
On Monday Mr. Slemp is scheduled lo
open his speaking campaign at Abing-!
* nntl Mr. Trinkle has an engage. '
ment there the same day. Tl|01.c
?o no Joint debate. Mr. Slemp having
?so far Ignored hi.s opponent's chal
from?fi?r a d s?"sa,on of the issues
from the snmo platform.
Bremen Expected
to Arrive To-Day
Believed I hat German Subma
rine Merchantman Will Reach
Baltimore or New London.
XKtrC'yoHKhC I,n\?*-?l?patrh. I
m.u lOKK. September 20 ?Tti
; Bremen. Germany's second submersible
;:;;17',!,ni,n;1" ,o ,,,ohs *??? Aua?u?: in
?>?naiioc or the ,{Iitish nuvv |s (>v1
pectcd t? rcarh oi,hi;r |Ja,lilllorc. o;.
?'XV to-morrow. Semlotlleial
; sources In this city. w|?,h ilrt. in f.OI1
"taiH communication wlth t)lc t!^,
??mbassy. stafd to-,Jay that the Breu.o,,
if!'!, UT" r'""' a,,,l
u:,s "?'t more than 3?)o miles
off the American .oust. Whether she
will make for New J.omJo.t ov Baltimore
I" uncertain Jt was stated. however
1 11" 0f ,hc Kaslrn. For
warding Company ]oft ,\>w yor^ Jnr
Baltimore to-.lay. and that a tug wouJ-l
(-'-lit from that port in eas<- the
Bremen should h-ad i? that direction.
A i rangornont f?,r id option either at
? London, |;al(jmore or .\>w Vork
hayi: heon completed for some time, a
so it a It 1<- pier having hecn provided at
'' ' The Mietnori in ll((t rnr?ro
j than a week overdue, her agents being
not iij...] 1 hat she could not possibly
i ro;i< h these shores before September
1.1. I he report of her capture, reported
?many time.s by passengers from Kng
? land. have boon given no credence bv
? I'm man officials here
I * > ?' fo <*??: i f i l/int i ha i I! i e s u bm o rsi *
ble that reported herself at 1 ,\. m.
o-d.i If iIm l:r. men. and not 'i;o
Aroerika. the third of the submersible
.'bet that has been placed in commls
'ho I >eutsehlaud made jor
meiiorahie voyage to this country.
FUNERAL OF SETH LOW
I "Me. ?f >li Htm-Wl?lr> i'rnmln.nr.
Iriliiitc in Memory of Liilc
Mayor of Nr%% Vork.
NI-.W V< >BK. September L''i Men of
' nation-wide prominen e. repre-onta
liven of o.|u' ational and financial insti
tutions. historical and political organ
; izations. paid tribute to the m?Miiorv
1 of former Mayor Seth l.ow at his'
' funeral Here to-day. \mottg those
present were <; .vernoi Wnitma,. Mayor
j M it' he!, J. I*. Morgan, Kllhu Root
Samuel 'lompers. dcorc.- \V. PerkinjT
j nml Alton It. J'arkei Murial was in
< ireenwood Cemetery
I'rior to the funeral the executive
on. mi tree ..f the National Civic Fed
j oration, of which Mr Row was presi
j dent, held a special meeting and
(adopted a minute eulogizing Mi. Rows
J services and expressing the sot row.of
' '? '* s''' 1 in the federation o v i ? r
, his Iks.
MAY RAISE MILITARY AGE
Wiling Definite Decided ?% lo Intend
ing l.imlf to Fort y-l-'i? c \r3r>,
\counting to l.tird Dcrlii.
lS|?.-.-ia: Cable t.. The T.uies.Uisoat, I
LONDON. September L'e -It, ;,r.' inter
view to-day. Rord Derby, British L'nder
Secretary f.-r War. said that nothing
| definite had yet been de. :de<! reKardinn'
the raising of the militai> ai;e t.? forty
?''?'' >^ais. Mo added that personally
he would be nlad to .see all Uritishers
:nobtl :/.ed up til SIM'. L'f age.
\sked if the cons*.riptlon for Ircian I ,
would cause trouble. ),,? replied
There ts already trouble without
anticipating any. The wai is goi- g
. II** fill the allie- ' i ??r 11. ;i i. \' !'ist * ? ,*
onl> chance to win the wai two
I ago. We are much .stronger mi iin n,
guns and shells While vi.aittnt ho
men I find them optimistic and i-i tine
? shape, laughing about the armored
. ca t s."
| MILITARY HONORS FOR MILLS j
J I'll ii era I <?f I.file Hrnil nf WlJItln Affairs
Huron ii nf \V iir l)r|in rf mont
IIeld ill Wiohlngtmi. ,
V\ AS 111 NfiTON September JO.? Mili
tary honors were accorded Major*
j General Albert I. Mills. late head of
the snilitia affairs bpreau of the War
Department, at his funeral here to-day.
A detachment of regulars fiom Fort
Myer, Va.. and a regiment <>f Infantry,
a cavalry troop and an artillery bat- -
tery of District of Columbia National
Guardsmen in camp here, acted as es
cort for the funeral procession from !
St. John's I'rotestant Kpiscopal Church,
where services wore held, to the ter- i
initial station.
Pallbearers included a number of
prominent military and civil officials. !
Burial will be made to-morrow at
?West Point, where the cadets will
participate in the ceremonies
SOCIALIST FOR WILSON
j ,lolt n Spargo Co in men it.m ProHlilrnt \\ il- ;
I son for Ills Part in Kniietment of
IIIglit-Honr l.inr,
BALTIMORK, MD., September l'<>.? '
i At to-night's session of the second (
j summer conference of the intcrcol
: legiate Socialist Society at Sherwood 1
Forest, ihe co-operative colony on the i
Severn Bivcr. John Spargo, of New
I Vork, a loading exponent of Socialism i
' in the Fnltod Slates, commended T'resi
dent Wilson for his part in the enact-j
mont of an eight-hour law l?y Con- I
! gross.
Senator Henri f.a Fontaine, of Bel
gium, is attending the conference, and 1
will take part in its deliberations.
RAYMOND BELMONT WEDS '
Son of \o? Vork Millionaire Taken,
lllh* 11 nlliert. Prominent Virginia
llornciYonuiti, as III* llrltle.
M 11 >1 >l,lCBl'nft. VA., September 20.?
Raymond Belmont, the son of August i
Belmont, the millionaire, was married I
here to-day to Miss Carolyn B. IIul
bort. of this place. The ceremony was j
performed by the Rev. ||. |(. Blvens. at!
the home of the bride's mother, Mrs. i
Kll/tibMh .1. Ilulbert.
Miss Ilulbert Is known as one of the '
best horsewomen in Virginia. Young
Belmont recently was divorcod from
Lillian Lorraine, an actress.
Indicates Belief That Progressive
Voters Will Support
Democrats.
CHEERED BY PRIMARY RESULT
Sends Telegrams of Congratula
tions to McCombs and
Seabury.
P. RANCH. X. J., Se|)tuml?cr ?
Victory for the Democratic ticket in
Xpw York Stat? in the November elec
tions was predicted by President. Wil
son t-11i^111. following the receipt of
? urn." from tin* primaries yesterday.
TIp' 1'! indicated bis belief that
IThkrestive voters in New ^ ork w ill
support tbe Democrats.
Ti< king bis lir.st active part in tbe
? ?ampaign. Mr. Wilson stent telegrams
of (oiil'i atulat ions to William I". Mr
Combs, the democratic nominee for the
I'nited States Senate, and to .ludiie
Satnnel Seabury, tlie* nominee for <'.ov
ernor. Tbe message to Mr. McCombs
. follows:
? 1 congratulate you most warmly on
\our nomination by the l>emocrattt of
New York for the United States Senate.
A united IkhIv of progressive voters will
be bf hind you."
The message to Judge .-eabiiry was.
"Your nomination by ib<- Denio<r:its
of New York for tbe governorship of
the State gratifies me very deeply. as
It must gratify ail friends of progres
sive government. 1 warmly eongratu
Inte yon, and predict a decisive victory
in November."
I'resldent Wilson and Chairman Mc
i 'oriniek mapped out liere to-diy a pro
? i a til for meeting the campaign attacks
? ?f t'harles i: II icli's on tlie tailroad
eight-hour law.
Wllil. I'HGK KVM'TMKXT
OK < O.MIM.KTI*. PIIOt.lt AM
Asserting that tbe Democrats would
show that the President placed before
? 'oncrcss a complete program to meet
the recently threatened strike. Mr. Mc
| i 'ortniok asserted that Mr. Wilson i*
<i: ? oared to urge strongly during the
next session of Congress the enactment
of this program.
When tbe entire plan of the Presi
??nt is fully understood tbe people of
the country will join in praising Mr.
Wilson, tbe chairman said. The Re
publicans, be declared, seem to ignore
??verything in the program except the
? ?ue item passed by tlie Congress. Mr.
Mci.'i rmlek addeil that it would be
^iiKivii dearly bow the President plans
??? minimize the possibility of a repe
tition of the railroad situation which
arose recently.
The chairman was not ready to-day :
'.?j announce any additional speaking
arrangements for Mr. Wilson, but said
that correspondence had ? been begjn
regarding several engagements. Me
plans to return here next Tuesday for
another conference.
President Wilson swung into cam
paign form to-day. With his plan for
discussing public question* before non
partisan organizations instead of male
.? u campaign tours fully decided upon,,
lie acttvfily took up bis political plans
after a lull of more than a week, caused
? y the illness and death >>f his sister,
Mrs. Annie II. Howe.
l'ltl'!l)UT l'liK\Tl (IF UTIVIT1
IV IiK.MOCItATIC CAMPAH..V
Administration leaders here predict
that from now on there will be plenty
of activity in the Democratic campaign.
The attacks of Charles F.. Hughes will
he fully met. they say. by the Presi
dent himself and by members of his
Cabinet and Democratic leaders who
will tour tbe country.
Chairman McCormick*. who spent the
night at Shadow Lawn, held an earlv
conference with tbe President thi
morning before leaving for headquar
ters in New York. He will return in
a few days to make arrangements for
the speeches to be made bv Mr. Wilson
Meantime the President worked on a
speech he will make to a delegation of
business men he will receive on Satur
day. and on the address lie will deliver
Monday before the convention of the
National Grain Dealers' Association. In
these two speeches he will outline the
reason why he thinks farmers and bitsl- ?
?if-ss men should vote tbe Democratic
ticket.
After the early morning conference
between the President and Chairman
McCor.tnlck, executive oflice attaches
began communicating with various non ,
partisan organizations who h?tv< in
vited Mr. Wilson to speak before them.
I'i.axs tiiips m:\t \\ i:i:k
TO IIAI.TIMOIII-: INI) PltlVt KTO\
Mr. Wilson plans to so to P.altimore
and Princeton next week. He is ex
pected to outline his position on tbe
threatened strike question on Saturday,
when he speaks to more than '-00
business men who are expected to maU
a pilgrimage to Shadow I,awn.
President Wilson also plans to at
tack the Republicans for bringing sec-;
tionalistn into the campaign, it was
saiil by officials. This attack will be
based on tbe reference by Republican
speakers to the number of committee
chairmanships in Congress held by
Southern Senators and Representatives.
wii.son m'.ai.i i: riiM.i,n\<;i:
ACCKI'THI) IIV ItlOI't ill.lt'A \S
NKW YORK. September -'ft.- Tbe
challenge of the National Wood row
Wilson College Men's League for a
series of debates on the issues of tbe
present campaign has been accepted by
the Hughes National College League,
Republican national headquarters an
nounced to-night. The Hughes League
has appointed a committee to meet a
commit tec of tbe Wilson League to
arrange details.
llrnilerMoii Killed in Action.
LONDON. September 2t.?Captatn
David Henderson, son of Arthur Hen
derson, president of the Roard of Kilu
ration and labor leader In fhe House
of Commons, har> been killed in action.
FAILS IN EFFORTS
TO SETTLE STRIKE
Mayor Mitchel Meets With Flat
Refusal in Personal Appeal
to Traction Heads.
DYNAMITE PLOT FRUSTRATED
Several Persons Injured in Riot
ing During Running Fight
With Police Reserves.
\ I: \V Vi i|lK, Sfyiyml?or 11 i ? ? r i i ? ^
wa - renewed hero to-night in connec
tion with iho car strike. aftei effortm
of Mayor .Mit'liel and others had
failed during the <1 ;iy to effect :i s?-ttle
tnvtit of the differences. Severn! hun
dred strikes and their sympathizers
?a Iki a11ii.-k-d four ^iirfai-c < u s,
i: sa ?'1 in a rutitiitw; fipht with polic
reserves. durin:; which if vera'. persons,
ir?c-lu?lJnt; a woman. were hurt. Many
arrests w* i<- made.
What the police characterized n? _ a
?onspiraey to use dynamite in the
strike v if frustrated by the arrest of
? man who asserted he was a striking
iiiotorruati. The prisoner, it was said,
h.i'i attempted' t.i purchase explosives
'???in .1 laborer in a new subway exiM
vation. Tin- latter reported the ease tr.
the ;i !111? ? ?; i t ie.-, w ho set a trap f. r t lie
striker. When arrester! at the labor
er's bono t'.-niKht. after two dummy
packages mad' tip in the form of dy
namite had beep passed to him. the
i prisoner - alleged to have declared he
sought t'.. ? xplosives to "blow up'' A
i roup!" of 1". road way ? ars.
\\ oons itr.uot iu,i:s iirrnitis
TO il.i: \ It HIHll'' TOI'S
When J'oli. ?? Commissioner Woods
| was told to-day that six-year-old Kewis
j Itodili \rii dj it.g. a victim of a brick
'hurled, he redoubled his efforts at
clearing roof tops contiguous to the
I traction lines. and went into confer
ence with i>;strict Att ?rney Swann to
provide f<ir the sp.-edy punishment of
offenders.
Hope <.f avert Inn the threatened
, walk-out of 7union workers iierc
in ?yrr.pathy with the carmen was dt
ti! inisiici). .Mayor Mil-be) announced
that he had made a personal appeal to
transit ? ompaiiy heads t" treat with
the strike!,, t.ut l,.id met with a flat
refusal M.-antime, preparations were
continued by union leaders for the
"walk-out "
Apparently tho only chance now of
calling off the union officiate'in their
determination to tie up New Tork by
Monday next, it was announced to
night. lies in a conference to b& held
to-morrow between a citizens' com
mittee and the strike leaders.
Samuel tJompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor, and
twenty-tive presidents of unions who
arrived to-day, held a conference, but
!!<? definite a*, tion was taken regarding
a general strike. It was said they
would meet again on Krida>
\\i\i:s or vritiKKits
TO ACT AS I'll'KKTS
A;> ?n>\; n:a tel..- 10.000 women, wives
of the sf :kitiij carmen and members
of trade unions, it was announced to
night. will act us pickets, beginning to
tnortow. It was said they contemplated
rid;ng <? n subway and elevated railway
trains. !ti efforts to induce the motor
''1 *"r i atid sua ids to desert their posts
and join the union.
Mayor .Mitcliel directed his appeal to
the irat.-it companies through Theo
doie !? s lion is, president of the lnter
horouuh Rapid Transit and the New
Vork Railways company, lie declared
M: Shouts told him there was abso
lute!.' tio basis upon which the com
panies would talk with the union men.
i- the strikers had placed tjiemsolves
> > ortd t in- pa !e."
WRITES STORY OF OWN DEATH
Nritspajicr Iteporter Turns in Copy of
Ills >nli'lilr. Then Takes
Poison lo Die.
I.MS AXOKLns, .-AT., September '.rt.
?Ilariy How land, a newspaper report
er wrote the story of his supposed sui
cide. and then carried out his plan,
excepting that lie took poison Instead
of shoot in- himself, as be had written
ii bis story. I low la ml took poison at
bis desk here in a newspaper ofllee
'ast night. The copy was found after
b:s death, lie grieved over the death
of his wife and child In Kansas Citv a
ear ago.
In hi* story. Howhind (let.tiled how.
'after writing' the story of his death
and suicide, be had shot himself out
side the newspaper office."
lie wrote: "The weapon be ?Kod to
en/I his life was borrowed from
on the pretext that HowlamJ had been
assigned on a story in a remote part
of the city, w here frequent holdups
' 've been committed"
\ blank space, to be filled in with the
time of the suicide, was left i? 1
opy. The story closet! with "Thlrty."l
Richmond's Fall ?
Fashion Shoiv
7 uesday and Wednesday
September 26th and 27th
All tlwit is now ;ttif) authori
tative in doni^stio an<] imported j
fashions will l,e shown hv
Richmond merchants on these 1
days. :
On Tuesday, the morning of
the opening. The Times-Dispatch j
will issue a colored supplement ?
'ontalnlng the openiim announce- j
ments and showing the prevail
ing Pall and Winter styles.
This will he an unusual cdi
t ion.
GREEK ULTIMATUM
GOES TO GERMANY
\
Demands Immediate Return of
Soldiers Taken Prisoner
at Kavala.
EXPIRES WEDNESDAY NIGHT
Refusal Will Mean Signal for
Entry Into War on Side
of Entente.
(Special Cable to I ll<' Tillies- lM.spatCll. J
I.ON L>OX. September -'It.?Greek in
tervention on the ?I?? of the allies ap
pears to be only ;i question of hours.
A casus belli has been found.
The Urcek government according to
a Itouter dispatch from Athens, sjiiil
tu be based on reliable authority, has
sent an ultimatum to German>, ex
piring to-night. It demands the im
mediate return of the Greet* garrison
?>f Kavala, which "surrendered" when
tlie sea port was occupied b\ Kulgars
and Germans.
Une dispatch from Athens to-night
says that a similar ultimatum was sent
to Bulgaria. Another message reports
these ultimatums expire on Friday.
< I reece lias made it clear to Merlin
and Sofia, dispatches state,- thai war
will be the only alternative if the de
mand is refused.
The ultimatum is based upon the
statement that the Greek soldiers at
'Kavala did not surrender voluntarily
to the Germans and Bulgarians, but
that the army corps commander had
offered to surrender to the Hritish, and
to them alone. Therefore, Grceee ar
kuos in her ultimatum the troops are
kept prisoners, which is a violation of
Creek neutrality.
If Germany or Bulgaria, or both, re
fuse to yield to Greece's demand, the
Hellenic kingdom is expected to cast
? its lot immediately with the entente.
probably without declaring war.
I This is what Piemier Hriand is be
lieve! to have alluded to when he
stated in the French Parliament yes -
teivlay:
"To-morrow you will see this joint
action of the allies expanding still
more."
\i.i.iics THVixt; to spi:i:?
?.ui:i:k i.\Ti:nvKXTiti.N ai.om;
.Meantime the entente powers are
1 iloing everything possible to speed
along Greek intervention. They have
begun to exert extreme economic pres
sure upon Greece. The Greek coast
has been put under blockade from the
mouth of the Struma to the Greeo
' Bulgarian frontier. The blockade,
j which, according to the French Jour
nal Ollicial, became effective September
t 16, is explained by the entente minis
j ters in pointing to the occupation of
j Kavala by the Hulgars.
The whole policy of the allies toward
I Greece has changed from pressure by
[courteous diplomatic entreaties to one
'of action. As far as the entente min
i islets are concerned, the new Greek
} Cabinet, headed by Premier Kalogero
noulos. does not exist. They have con
sistently refrained from dealing with
this new ministry. They even refused
to pay the usual formal visit to the
I new Premier. The reason for this is
(believed to be the latter's failure to
; translate his words into action, for his
utterances upon assuming the ofllce
j foreshadowed prompt intervention.
Coupled with this "icy stare" for the
j new Cabinet is a general policy of
absolute distrust toward the Greek
authorities. The blockade is being
tightened steadily, and allied warships
are continuall> cruising all around the
! Greek coasts. All the while the in
ternal revolt grows.
i
IRKI'OIITKO < I.TMIATI M
It ICS II/I' OF SITl ATIO.N
The reported ultimatum is the result
of this situation. It was dispatched,
Athens messages say. immediately
,-ifter a conference between King Con
stantine and his Premier. The depar
ture from neutrality was decided upon,
a Heuter dispatch says, "with a view
to dissipating the entente's apparent
distrust of the new Cabinet."
Another effort was made to-dav to
bring the entente ministers and Pre
mier Kalogeropoulos together, evi
dently without result. The Greek For
eign Ofliee sent an official to the diplo
mats ami requested them, it is said, to
recognize the new Cabinet as a matter
' of form. He is reported to have added I
(hat the Cabinet would subsequently
resign, if such course were considered
inevitable.
A dispatch from Athens late lo-nlghtj
says ihe Greek note to tiermanv de
mands that the Greek troops be brought
lo the Swiss frontier, in order that'
they may be taken to a Mediterranean i
port, thence to proceed to Greece.
Greece is said to guarantee in its'
ultimatum that the troops will not be
forced to serve against Germany.
The action of the Greek troops' com
mander. General llad.lopou los, is dis
avow ed by the Greek note, the dispatch
! sa ys, and explains that he disregarded j
orders to trans; oil his men to another
i?rceU port.
Messages exchanged between the
[Greek commander and the Greek Min
ister <if War through the admiral of
the Hritish ileet were made public to
night. They show that General lladjo-j
ponlos offered to surrender his corps
to the Hritish, and that the Greek War
Minister subsequently ordered that this,
be done.
OFFF.ItN 'I'O M l(lti:\l)i:it
nniFIIIATULV TO IIII Ills 11
Under date of September 11, General
Madjopouios telegraphed to the War J
M inister;
"The Fourth Greek Army Corps at
Kavala wishes to surrender immedi
ately t?> tin Hritish. The Unitarians
have threatened to bombard the. city i
to-morrow."
The following message was then sent
by the Hritish admiral:
"l>o > on wish me ?o permit the Greek
troops to embark on Greek ships'.'"
War Minister Callnris replied as fid
lows:
"To the Fourth Army Cot ps at Ka
vala: Transport, yourselves immediately \
wilh all your forces, and. If possible,!
( Co n t in u cd~ o n?Th1r d ~P it s u~) J
Appalling Losses
in Somme Battle
t
Total of Half Million Men'
British and French Casual
ties, Berlin Estimates.
September 110 (by wireles*
to Sayville).? British ami French losses
1 in t lie* battle of the Somm'1 have
reached about ."lOO.oni} men. the Over
seas News Agency estimates.
"IJecent h>cal successes obtained {? \ !
the I Iriti.sli ??11 the Somme are heralded
by the Knglish press as groat victories,
and even occasioned a special inessaRO '
from Kintr (ieorge t<> (he British com
mander, 'Senenil Sir Douglas llalg.'}
, says the news imcm-j "It is said tlio ?
British occupied the villaces of l-'lers,
Martinpuich ami Coui ???Mette in the first
day's lighting. although it had been
planned to take them in the course of
four days of battle.
( ' Nevertheless tin- British were en
abled to make this advance only after!
eleven weeks of the most desperate ef- i
j forts. The result of the battle of the'
Somme should be panned by consider
ing the amount o? French and Belgian
territory occupied by the (Sennaus,
which amounts in all to about 30,000 i
square kilometers. of this 2P,ono is!
IW iuian and 21.00" French. The efTort* ,
made by the French and British have i
res.11 ted in the reconquest of only 1.500 j
square kilometers, or :t por cent
"The price paid for this territory J
is appa Mine. According to a conserva- j
tive estimate. the British lost ::.-,0.00ft |
linen up t? Scplemltor IThis, together
with the Kretieh losses, brings up the
'total ti> about 500.000 men."
, ARMY DOES NOT WANT WAR
secrolnrj llnkrr Pnj* TriluHr to Urn.
I'roin <??iiininn<tlni; (irnrrnl to
I.HNt ICiiIImI oil Privntr.
I
ST. LOI'IS, September 1'0.? Secretary :
of War Baker, in an address before the i
Business .Men's l.eague here to-day, J
snifi that as Secretary of War he had !
discovered that the aiiny does not de
sire war.
"\s a civilian." he said. "I helicved
that a standing army was a menace to
free institutions, and that the profes-|
sioimi soldier desired war. But I want
io make a confession to you. I have
found, as Secretary of War. that the
entire army of the Cnited Stales, from
t he commanding general to the last en
listed private, does not desire war. f
know of no body nf men who have a
more singular devotion to duty than
the army, and no body of men who
i would be more willing to lay down
their lives for their country.
"The militia was mobilized on the '
bottler, a distance of twice the distance ;
j from St. i.ouis to New York with grunt
| suc?es.H and ellieieney. Not withstand- ;
, lug the fact that the men came from
*i 11 walks of li (??. a ml are doing ser- ?
vice in a strange climate, the etliciency
is such that the sick report is less than
( :? per cent?I per cent less than that
i of the regular army.
"The time has come when there must ,
I'-ovver on the part of the govern
ment to mobilize all the forces of tin*
country tor the common interest."
DESIRE TO REMAIN NEUTRAL
Klnis ?<f Nornn.v Ordure* Scandinavian
N u I ion* Are Inltvd ITill*
I'll rpoMi*.
l.t'XhO.V, September 20.? King- Haa
kon. ol Norway, speaking- at a dinner
given to the Swedish and Danish .Min
isters of state in Kristiania. declared
that ib>* Scandinavian nations were
united in the desire tt> remain noutral.
.??cording to a dispatch to the Kxchange
Telegraph Company. The dinner at
which the King spoke was given in
connection with a series of conferences
which are being held at the Norwegian
capital by the Scandinavian ministers
of State.
King llaskon said that the con
ferences were only intended to protect
Scandinavian interests. The meetings. I
which will continue throughout the
week, are the outcome of the earlier
meeting by the Kings of Denmark. ?
Norway and Sweden at Malmo. at i
which it was decided that the three* <
nations should co-operate to safeguard
their rights as neutral states.
FEDERAL SHAFT IN MEMPHIS :
Will lie Dcdlcn I e?l to Soldier* of Min
nesota Who l.ost l.hos in War I
Het?voen Stnlc*. ;
M KM I'll IS. TK.N.V, September JM.? ;
Minnesota will dedicate a monument to
the soldier.*! of thai State who died
during lb- War Between the States
and were buried in the National Cem
etery here, when tjovcriior .1. A. Burn
quist and members of the .Minnesota 1 I
Monument Association arrive here on 1
Saturday. Governor Burnquist's party '
will stop at Kittle Bock on Friday and <
dedicate a shaft in the National t'cin- '
elery there. 1
In the exercises hei?,-. it was an- t
rtoiinced lo-da\, the Minnesota c\ecu- s
tive will deliver the dedicatory ad
dress. while the spec h of aeecptanco 1
will be made b> .ludgc I. M Greet',
of Memphis. Boca I organizations of
Confederate veterans will participate
in the ceremonb
TO SAVE DAVIS BIRTHPLACE ?
Confederate \cternn* IHscmhh I'lnus
fur <\?nverlitiK Properly Into <
l*n lille I'ark.
I lOl'KJN'SYIBBK. KY. September I'O.
?The blrthplacevol" Jefferson Davis, at
Fairvicw, near here, will be converted '
into a public park if plans discussed ?
at a meeting of Confederate veterans ?'
at l-'airview yesterday are consutn- 1
mated. 1
A beginning in this direction has 1
been made, control of the house In >
which the President of the Confederacy <
was born and nineteen acres of land
has been obtained, but much work in '
beaii11fyins 'he grounds remains to be.
done.
Among those present at the meeting ji
were c.eneral Bennet Young. <>f Bonis- i
ville, former commander-in-chief of the' ;
United Confederate Veterans, and Ben- ?
eral George W. J,tUlellckl, of Tex a a. j p
Fail in Desperate Efforts to
Retrieve Part of Lost
Territory.
ALLIES EVERYWHERE
HOLD THEIR POSITIONS
Teutons Leave Many Dead Be
hind Them After Being Re
pulsed at Priez Farm.
Kl'SSIANS l?KKK.\TBI> IN BAST
liou tiiuninu> .Moot With Serious
llcvcrsc in Itojihrn of
llnts/.cg.
BOX DON, September 'JO.--In an ef
fort to relieve in part their lost toi-t?
lory, ? li?* Germans to-day. despite the
bad weather, made violent counterat
tacks against the French over a thi-ee
mile front in the region i-.f the Pries
farm ami Rouchavosnes, north of tins
Sonnne. \
In mass formation the Teutons threw
attack after attack along the line from
;? o'clock iii the morning until dark,
:in<l at the end of the day the Frcneli
were everywhere holding their posi
tions, iK'i'onliUn to Paris, and the hat
tie held at points was covered with
German dead.
During the fighting the Germans
penetrated the northeastern part of tho
village of Roucbavoiicm, lint here tho
French met them with tho bayonet, and
dislodged them. Four assaults at the
Prior. farm, in which the Germans came,
on in waves, were repulsed by the
French, whose observers assort that
the Germans at last withdrew in dis
order. leaving many ile;id behind them.
On the Kritish front the inclement
weather still holds the opposing sides
to artillery duels.
In the eastern theater, in Russia and
Galicia, both Rerliu and Vienna, report
tho repulse of heavy Russian attacks
in the l.utsk sector of Volhynta, and
southeast of Romberg In Galicia. J.ocal
successes for the Russians in the Car
pathians are conceded h;. the Teutonic
allies, who say. however, that on tho
whole the Russian attacks in this re
gion were repulsed.
llOltlAMAXS MUKT
WITH SKHltllS ItHVKIlSKS
Down in Transylvania, where .tho
Roumanians have been lighting against
the Austro-Hungarinn forces, the in
vaders apparently have met with a
serious reverse in the region of lfats
?.eg. where they have been driven hack
by the Teutonic allies to the Transyl
vania u Alps, and the town of Petroseny
and the Ssturduk Pass. through which
Ibev entered Transylvania in this ic
gion, recaptured from them.
In Dobrudja. where the Russians and
Roumanians have been heavily rc
eofoi-eed along the line south of tho
Constau/.a railway from the Black Sea
to the Danube, the thle of the battle
is fluctuating. Sofia reports .successes
for the arms --f the Bulgars at certain
points, while Ruklmrest claims a vic
tory for tlie Roumanians near Enigea.
The western end of the Macedonian
front is still the scene of violent corn
hats. The Bulgarians, according to
Athens, have hastily evacuated \ ig
litsa. at the extreme end of tiie line,
ami fallen hack upon Svedsa for a
stand in previously prepared Intrench
ments, which, if captured, will neces
sitate the evacuation of Monastir,
Serbia.
Rerliu reports thai th" Germans. who
are co-operating with the Rulgars,
have repulsed entente thrusts near
Fiorina. Greece. Rome admits that the
Italians on the southern slopes of
Monte Role:* have boon driven back by
the Bulgarians. Artillery lighting pre
dominates on the British and i-ien_h
fronts.
Aside from bombardments and iso
lated infantry attacks, the situation
remains unchanged on the i arso ftonl
i>t' the Austro-italian theater, where,
ihe Italians are trying to reach Trieste.
Constantinople records successes for
the Ottoman forces over the Russian:'
uid British, respectively, in Persia and
ilong the Tigris.
fi.tt i'i \tim; iiatti.ks in
I'llOVIM K UK DOltlll IIJA
P.KRI.IN. September -'t (via Ijotltioil).
Stubborn and lluctuating battles ate
u'oiug on in the provin -e or' Dohrurlia.
liet ween Riisso-Roiimaniaii forces and
;e:nu>n and Bulgarian troops, fays lo
lav's German oilicial statement Ihe
Russians and Rouma 11 ians have hastily
? rought up re-enforcements, the state
ment ad.Is, and are defending their po
-it ions with great stubbornness.
IIOIMWIANS IIIMVKN IIU'K
o\ i:it * y.t not k I* \ss
P.KRI.IN. September iva Kondon".
Roumanian fori e> wlilcb invadf l
1'ra nsy 1 van i t through the I'/.urduk Pas*
? f the Transv 1 vanian Alp.-', have been
lefeated and driven back over the pas-',
he War otllce announced to-day
.KH MVNJ> \ 1 N st ? ? l's>
IV II \ \ II Olt K\ \ UK Ml tt'K
P.KRI.IN'. Scptembe < via Bondoni
In a band grenade attack on tin*
r'.ritish troops near Flers, on the Somiiit?
'rout, the dcrmans y? .terday gainco
.ome success. s;,>s th- otbcial state
nciit issued to-da > by tlo* Gorman
irmy headquarters In the Verdun see.
or the Germans drove the Freneh out
>f a small trench on the western slopo
> f 1 lead Ma it's 11 ill.
.Kit >1 I \'S K.IKt TKD
l-'UOM TIIKM II POSITIONS
PARIS. Sept Hi be i .'<> I i. teialined
ittacks were made by the Germans la*'
light on the French" position* at hi)
t?, north of the Somme. The GemiatV'
;itined a foothold at som? ?adv;?n?-eo
toints, the War ufllco announced to
