I 1
The Silver Jubilee exposition of the
Mille Lacs County Agricultural socie
ty was held under adverse weather
conditions, but it was a winner at
*that and thousands visited the grounds
to view the exhibits and enjoy the
races, sports and attractions.
The exhibits -were varied and nu
merous and the races and sports were
more than entertaining. But the fea
ture attraction and the real thriller
was the airship flights by Wm. S.
Brock on Saturday.
Mr. Brock was not the aviator sup
posed to fly here, but he is employed
by the same company. Monte Rolfe,
who was advertised for Princeton, had
the misfortune to have his machine
break down at Rush City, and this
complicated matters. It was impos
sible to get another machine here for
Friday, and the crowd in attendance
that day was extremely disappointed.
So were the officers and directors, as
it is safe to say that Saturday's at
tendance was reduced by more than
1,000 as a result. Besides they did
not enjoy disappointing the public.
At that it is very doubtful if we would
have had an airship at all if the fair
association had not had the foresight
to demand a substantial cash bond
from the aeroplane company absolute
ly guaranteeing flights. Brock was
sent here from Illinois.
The two flights were revelations to
the fair visitors. Immediately after
the mechanician gave the large pro
peller a turn and started the power
ful and noisy six-cylinder engine, all
waited in suspense until the ten men
holding the machine let go. It im
mediately bounded forward on wheels
at a rapid rate of speed, and after
running along on the ground about 75
yards the aeroplane started to raise
in the air. Up and up it went, and
the driver had perfect control at all
times. The machine wheeled and cir
cled above the grounds, and continued
to raise in the air until an altitude of
5,200 feet was reachedjust 80 feet
short of a mile. Each one there gave
a gasp when the daring aviator guided
the machine into a cloud, and disap
peared entirely. He did not remain
hidden very long as the moisture was
beginning to affect the carburetor of
the engine. The,downward flight was
made gradually, and the landing was
effected amid the cheers, of those
assembled. The second flight was a
repetition of the first, but the aviator
did not disappear from view, although
he guided the machine into a light
cloud. It was a thrilling exhibition of
skill and daringone worth traveling
many miles to witness.
Splendid Exhibits Mark the Silver Jubilee Exposi-
tion of the Mille Lacs County Agri-
The weather the last three days of
the fair was cold and disagreeable,
and this held down the attendance.
On Thursday there were 384 paid ad
missions, and on Friday there were
2$63 while on Saturday there were
cultural Association.
Hon. Frank B. Kellogg Delivers a Brief But
Sensible Address on Second Day
of the Fair.
THRILLING AIRSHIP FLIGHTS ON SATURDAY
Milo Mutual Wins Farmers' Clubs Honors and
Woodward Brook Is Second-
Other Fine Exhibits.
Past Horse Races, Interesting Ball Games and
Band Music Entertain Numerous
Visitors Each Day.
SILVER JUBILEE EXPOSITION A
WINNER DESPITE ADVERSE WEATHER
1,305a total of 3,952 for the three
days. The total attendance exceeded
this figure by several hundred, how
ever, as children under 12 were ad
mitted free, as were exhibitors, super
intendents, base ball clubs and band
boys. The gate receipts this year to
taled $1,782.50. The total paid admis
sions last year were 5,518.
Frank B. Kellogg Speaks.
On Friday afternoon fair visitors
had the pleasure of seeing and hearing
the gentleman who will succeed Hon.
Moses E. Clapp in the senate of the
United States, Hon. Frank B. Kellogg.
Mr. Kellogg, who spoke from an
automobile in front of the grand
stand, was introduced to the assem
bled throng by R. C. Dunn, in brief
and fitting remarks.
The day was far from ideal for out
door speaking, and Mr. Kellogg did
not make a lengthy address. But he
said a whole lot in a short time.
At the outset the speaker' stated
that he did not propose to discuss
politics upon this occasion, but he said
that he would certainly feel honored
if accorded the privilege of serving
with Minnesota's grand old senior
senator, Hon. Knute Nelson, in the
upper house of the American congress.
A patriotic appeal for Americanism
was then made, and Mr. Kellogg said
that there should be no German
Americans, no Scandinavian-Ameri
cans, no English-Americans, but just
plain Americans. All should be in
spired by one hope.
The speaker then briefly outlined
the advancement made since he first
came to Minnesota, 51 years ago.
The great northwest was then a wil
derness to the Pacific, and Mr. Kel
logg saw the first mile of railroad
built west of St. Paul.
The past half century has been a
memorable period of progress in world
history, said the speaker, but the im
proved farm conditions have been
especially marked. This was partic
ularly gratifying, he said, as the farm
is the basis of wealth and prosperity.
A nation without farms is bound to
decline. Mr. Kellogg is himself a
farmer's boy, and he well knows the
hardships and adverse conditions of
farm life. He expressed the opinion
that one of the important duties of
public men is to endeavor to make
farming profitable. In 1865 seventy
percent of the total population of the
United States lived on farms, while
today less than thirty percent reside
there. The speaker urged the neces
sity of improved farm conditions, and
said that under no circumstances
should tenancy be allowed to increase.
The farmers should own their own
homes, and this would be possible if
farming were made stable. When
one considers, said the speaker, that
last year the stupendous total of $1-,
ewsn
,^v~~ ^Mf{^t%^i^#!gi^P!^Tl .BBS J&BPf
B. C.DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1916
240,000,000 came here for farm pro
ducts alone, some idea of the impor
tance of this industry'may be gained.
The speaker was firmly convinced
that the United States should not be
dependent upon foreign nations for
merchant ships, and said that a goodly
share of the enormous increase in
ocean freight rates since the start of
the European war came directly out
of the pockets of the farmers.
In conclusion Mr. Kellogg said that
the United States should continue to
work out its own destiny, and he pre
dicted that at the end of the Euro
pean war a brighter day would dawn
for the world.
Mr. Kellogg is a sincere and force
ful speaker, and he was given the
closest attention throughout. He
made a very favorable impression up
on his hearers, and was roundly ap
plauded at the conclusion.
The Exhibits.
Few, if any, fair visitors failed to
pass through the various buildings and
view the splendid array of exhibits.
This feature alone was well worth a
visit to the exposition. Competition
was keen, and everything was proper
ly arranged.
The farmers' clubs made a particu
larly splendid showing, and the Milo
Mutual, Woodward Brook, Vondell
Brook, Clover Leaf and Chase Brook
clubs were represented. Booths were
prepared for these exhibits under the
grand stand, and Wyanett township
had an exhibit in the north end of the
agricultural hall. The display of the
Milo Mutual club was especially fine.
The entrance to the booth was hung
with strings of brown beans on
threads. In the back ground on the
wall appeared a very artistic sign,
made from golden kernels of corn,
containing the words "1916 Milo Mu-
tual." The exhibits were attractively
arranged and of splendid quality, in
cluding luscious berries and fruits,
some of the finest potatoes we ha
seen this season, and corn, grain and
grasses in abundance. The display
was awarded first prize, and those who
prepared it are certainly to be con
gratulated.
The Woodward Brook club was
awarded second honors, and it made a
very good showing also. A neatly
painted sign told fair visitors the
name of the club, and the exhibits
were arranged to good advantage.
Appetizing canned goods in transpar
ent jars, put up by the farmers' wives
and daughters were a part of the ex
hibit, and corn, cabbage, grains and
grasses, pumpkins and squash were
also included as well as honey. The
Woodward Brook club can well feel
proud of the showing made.
The third prize in this division went
to the township of Wyanett, Isanti
county, which had an attractive ex
hibit of vegetables, canned fruits,
corn, grains, pumpkins, squash and
potatoes.
The Chase Brook Farmers' club had
nice displays of turnips, potatoes, ap
ples, corn, grains and grasses and
canned fruits, and it was awarded
fourth prize by the judges. A good
showing was made.
Fifth prize went to the Clover Leaf
Farmers' club, and it had a fine ex
hibit also. Apples, plums, berries,
buckwheat and other grains, potatoes,
corn, pumpkins, squash and citrons
were atractively displayed in the
booth.
The Vondell Brook Farmers' club,
which had a neatly arranged display
of vegetables, fruit, plums, berries,
grains and grasses, was awarded $7.50
by the fair association to help defray
the expense of bringing the exhibit to
the fair. Mr. Chas. Nelson of Litch
field, who is connected with the uni
versity extension division, and Mrs.
McGuire of St. Paul, judged the ex
hibits in this division.
Not the least interesting feature of
the fair were the school exhibits un
der the grand stand. The rural ex
hibit collected by County Superinten
dent Ewing included some nice agri
cultural products as well as map draw
ings, specimens of penmanship, etc.
Districts 9, 12 and 24 were represent
ed. Princeton was represented by the
Whittier school, and the pupils can
well feel proud of the showing made.
The miniature house containing
furniture, constructed by boys in the
third grade in Miss Whiting's room,
excited especial comment. The teach
ers, Misses Davis and Whiting, are al
so deserving of commendation for the
excellence of the exhibit. Mrs. Robt.
H. King and Mrs. Ella Jorgenson
judged the exhibits with the exception
of the agricultural products, which
were passed upon by Messrs. Robert
Clark and Royal Berry.
The Agricultural hall was not as well
filled as in former years, due to the
fact that the Farmers' clubs exhibits
under the grand stand consisted main
ly of products of the soil. There was
a good showing of grains and grasses,
and vegetables, however, and a nicer
assortment of corn was never exhib
ited here.
Robt. Clark carried off the sweep
stake prize for the best collection of
vegetables, 15 varieties, and Royal
Berry won the potato sweepstake ort
his exhibit of one bushel each of any
four standard varieties. Chas. M.
Murray and R. D. Byers were in charge
of this department, and of course,
everything was in tip-top condition.
The exhibits were judged by Prof.
Watson of Milaca.
The fruit entries occupied the south
half of the east wing of the Agricul
tural hall, and were exceptionally fine.
Apples, plums, and crab apples of var
ious varieties were attractively dis
played, and the exhibit was a splen
did one. The floral exhibits occupied
a large octagonal stand in the center
of the agricultural hall, and beautiful
flowers and ferns artistically arranged
here met the eyes of fair visitors. Mrs.
Frances S. Cooney and Mrs. Ed Nel
son were, respectively, in charge of
these departments, and the neatness
of the displays was due to their efforts.
Prof. Watson of Milaca acted as judge
in both divisions.
The art hall was the favorite resort
of lady visitors at the fair, although
numerous others passed through the
building to view the many pretty
articles entered. The east wing con
tained the domestic manufacture de
partment, and here were displayed
embroidered articles, crochet work,
needle work, hemstitched articles,
cross stitchingin fact everything
skilled hands can make with
needle and thread, etc. It was
a splendid showing, and more
than reflected credit on the needle
plyers of this vicinity. This depart
ment was in charge of Mrs. Chas.
Keith, Mrs. H. L. Cowles, Mrs. Robt.
H. King, Miss Genevieve Welch and
Miss Mildred Rutherford, and the ar
rangements could not have been im
proved upon.
In the west wing were displayed
some real meritable specimens of
paintings in oil, water colors and
crayon work, including fruits, flowers,
landscapes and animals. There were
also pencil drawings, photographs and
crayon portraits, and the exhibits
were conclusive evidence that this
vicinity has some talented amateur
artists. Mrs. Geo. P. Creglow was
superintendent of this department and
she was assisted by Miss Balcom and
Mrs. Stacy. Everything was attrac
tively arranged.
Three of Princeton's leading stores
Creglow's, Allen's and C. H. Nel
son'salso had attractively arranged
booths, displaying the newest in mer
chandise in the west wing.
The bread and pastry department
was another interesting feature of tke
fair, and the good housewives and
young ladies of this vicinity appeared
to have made a special effort to make
a good showing for the Silver Jubilee
exposition. It was an appetizing
array of bread, rolls, biscuits, cakes,
pies and doughnuts. Mrs. Chas. King
superintended this department and had
everything arranged to a queen's
taste.
The canned goods department con
tained numerous entries of jellies and
sauces, including pears, peaches, ber
ries, etc., pickles and preserves neatly
put up in transparent jars. It was a
tempting exhibit. Mr. O. B. Randall
assisted by Mrs. Oscar Stark was in
charge of this division, and the ex
hibits were attractively displayed.
The butter department contained
some fine jar and print butter from
farmers' wives, and some A No. 1
creamery butter. Archie Jones of the
Princeton Co-operative creamery se
cured first prize on creamery butter.
The honey department was in charge
of Mrs. F. C. Keith and attracted much
favorable comment.
Some fine blooded animals were en
tered in the live stock department.
The horse division, superintended by
Chas. King, contained some splendid
specimens of stallions, brood mares
and colts.
The sheep and pig pens contained
some nice looking animals, and some
goats were also exhibited.
The cattle barn invariably detained
visitors longer than the other live
stock divisions, and it certainly con
tained some splendid beef and dairy
animals. That the farmers of this
vicinity are thoroughly alive to the
importance of good, blooded cattle
was evident to all visitors. P. W. Jen
sen's herd of Holstein-Freisians car
ried off the first sweepstake prize in
dairy stock, and C. N. Park's herd of
the same kind won second prize. In
beef stock Sam Droogsma's herd of
Herefords won first sweepstake and
W. A. Webb's herd of Herefords won
second. The Milaca Holstein and
Guernsey Breeders' association had
some fine animals entered, and carried
off seven prizes. AH live stock was
judged by Mr. Johnson of Litchfield.
Clint Slater was in charge of this de
partment, and as he is well posted on
cattle he attended to everything ad
mirably.
The poultry building contained
some fine fowls, and numerous visi
tors praised the exhibition of turkeys,
ducks, geese, and chickens. Wm.
Marsh, an acknowledged authority on
poultry, superintended this depart
ment.
All in all the exhibits were more
than creditable, and the officers and
directors as well as other well-wishers
of the fair were gratified at the show
ing made.
Horse Races.
The track events were more inter
esting than usual, and the $200 purse
of Saturday attracted some outside
horses that could step right along.
One of the most likely appearing
animals in the lot, Silver Moon, owned
by John Runquist of Grasston abso
lutely refused to start until the other
horses were around to the other side
of the track, and then it would jig
along for half a mile before reaching
its stride. All trials for speed were
made under the rules of the American
trotting association. Charles Keith
acted as starter, D. A. McRae as clerk,
J. J. Skahen as judge and Fred Keith
as timekeeper.
Thursday: Trot or pace, mile heats,
best two in three. Purse, $100, divid
ed into $50, $35 and $15. Depew's
Lena Ray of Anoka first, Howard's
Dock second and Smith's Anadonna
third. Time 2:42, 2:43 and 2:46.
Amateur driving race, trot or pace,
half mile heats, farmer's horses only,
best two in three. Purse $35, divided
into $15, $12.50 and $7.50. Axel
Bragge's Maud first, Bragge's Barney
second and McGonagle's Topsy third.
Friday: Amateur driving race,
trot or pace, half mile heats, farmers'
hordes only, best two in three. Purse
$35.00, divided into $15, $12.50 and
$7.50. Bragge's Barney first, Bragge's
Maud second and Kornman's Queen
third. Time 1:39, 1:45 and 1:37.
Running race, half mile heats, best
two in three. Purse $35, divided into
$15, $12.50 and $7.50. Roy Robideau's
Nellie first, Roy Torgenson's Mid
night second and McGonagle's Lady
third.
Saturday: Free-for-all, trot or
pace, mile heats, best three in five.
Purse $2^HliJded into $100, $65 and
$35. Johnstone's' Mel Wilkes of Mora
first, Ans Howard's Dock second, De
pew's Lena Ray of Anoka third. Time
2:39, 2:41 and 2:39.
Running race, half mile heats, best
two in three. Purse $35, divided into
$15, $12:50 and $7:50. Robideau's
Nellie first, Torgenson's Midnight
second and McGonagle's lady third.
Time 1:07 and 1:03%.
Ball Games.
Pursuant to the official program the
base ball teams from Bock and Pease,
respectively, toed the scratch for the
opening game of the 1916 Mille Lacs
county fair, on the afternoon of Thurs
day,JSept. 14. Cold, inclement weather
made it miserable for both fans and
players. Pease proceeded to pull off a
baloon ascension in the first inning to
take the place of the flying machine,
which wasn't on the program for the
opening day. While the Pease crew
was having a good time booting and
heaving the ball around the Bock
bunch got busy and scored four runs,
which finally proved sufficient to win
the game. After the fireworks of the
first round both teams settled down
and played some real base ball. Pease
made desperate efforts to overcome
the lead that the men from Carl Eck
dall's town had taken in the start of
the fracas, but two runs was the best
they could do and the final score was
4 to 2 in favor of Bock.
On Friday "Sliver" Pratt brought
his bunch of imported Minneapolis
stock and proceeded to put a crimp in
the base ball ambitions of "Pongo"
Olsen's pastimers. The lengthy one
from Zimmerman had agreed to pro
duce a real ball team if the fair man
agement would give him one of the
fair dates against the Princeton team.
And produce "Sliver" did. He reported
on time with one of the best ball
teams seen on the local lot this year.
Evidently he had gone far afield in
his search for ball tossers who could
call the turn on the Princeton gang,
^^f#^p?%^^^y^g^^^^^^
^H8Wgiiwii faassaa^.
nfoTORKSAt
VOLUME XL. NO. 40
and incidentally had dug deep down
into his hip pocket for a like purpose.
But be that as it may Mngr. Pratt
showed up with the goods and suc
ceeded in getting away with the long
end of the money. Needless to say
the final result, 5 to 4 for Zimmerman,
was a great satisfaction for the tall
one and his home town guard who
backed him in the little deal.
The visitors grabbed a two run lead
in the first frame when they filled the
bases with two out. Then a short
twisting roller to Michaud, who finally
snared the sphere. Then a quick
hurried throw to first that got away
from Caley, and two of Slim's hired
athletes had counted.
In the third the Zims added another
run when Ursella made the complete
circuit after getting safely to first on
an infield error. In their half of this
frame the Princeton team tied the
score when they started a batting
rally that netted them three runs.
Michaud, Jesmer and Wilkes were the
men who worked their passage around
for the three counters. Capt. Mallette
kicked in with a healthy smash that
helped a whole lot in getting two of
the runners home.
Princeton lost the game in the next
inning when they let the Zim bunch
fill the bases with two out, and thert
a bingle to short right sent two more
of them scampering across the plate
to safety. Neither side scored again
until Princeton made it 4 to 5 in the
last half of the eighth. With two
down Caley smashed one through the
first baseman and went to second OIL
the play. Wilkes scored him with a
two-base blow. This ended the run
getting for both sides, although Mal
lette had a near score in the ninth that
would have tied it up had it material
ized. Doc led off in this round with
his fourth clean hit of the game, a
double to left field. Third was the
farthest north he was able to get, how
ever, and the game was over 5 to 4 in
favor of Zimmerman.
Saturday the Milaea-Greenbush bat
tle was staged for the wind-up of the
county fair, and the two teams put up
a scrappy exhibition that was won by
the Milaca team in the 7th round.
Both teams got away to a good start
and a two to two tie hung fire until
7th inning, when the Milaca fence
busters went out and broke up the
game by scoring three runs. A hard
finish by Greenbush produced another
run for their side, but this was their
limit and the team from up river
marched off the grounds with the long
end of the score and purse.
Take it altogether the base ball part
of the program at the 1916 fair was
well up towards the top as an enter
tainer and fun producer. Although
the weather for all three days was
about as bad as could have been se
lected by the biggest anti-base ball
crank on earth. Still the games played
were good fast exhibitions of the
national pastime. The scores 4 to 2,
5 to 4 and 5 to 3 speak for themselves.
NOTES.
Editor Sylvan Sheets of Foreston
visited the fair Friday, and pronounced
it a winner.
Fur coats were in evidence every
day of the fair, and the weather was
certainly chilly.
Oslund's nursery of Cambridge had
a nice exhibit in the east wing of the
Agricultural hall.
The cold, damp weather, and the
failure of the airship to arrive Friday"
were the only disappointments.
The merry-go-round as usual at
tracted its share of attention, and the^
younger element particularly enjoyed
it.
The Bock band discoursed pleasing
selections on Thursday, while Friday
and Saturday the Glendorado band
played.
O. B. Randall fitted up a pump with
a Delco motor that started and stopped
automatically. It created favorable
comment.
Senator and Mrs. T. C. Blomgren
were among the Cambridge people at
the fair Friday. Senator Blomgren
stated that he always enjoys visiting
our fair.
D. R. Byers, the jeweler, had a
tasty display of his wares on exhibi
tion in the fine arts hall that attract
ed considerable attention. Denny's
enterprise is commendable.
Horses that regard an automobile
with calm indifference became some
what restive when the airship passed
over them at a low height. The en
gine made considerable noise and peo
ple in Long Siding heard it.
Just prior to Friday's ball game
Manager Olson had the Princeton
ball team photographed. He thinks
it barely possible that it would have
been wiser to have waited until after
the game. And he isn't particularly
superstitious either.
(Continued on Page Two)
