NIGHT
EXTRA
uemtra
fFLNAftCIAL'EDITION
)U IH.-NO. 7
Urttger
NIGHT
EXTRA
JTLES RAGE
ILENTLY ON 3
'm FRONTS
-Rumanians Take
rOfrensive on Do-
, brudja Line
)LOCK, BERLIN
k REPORTS ASSERT
Q
fch Troops Advance
Pliree Miles in Drive
rr 'HTnnnafi'i
ftV u"
f;GROUND AT VERDUN
is Prepnre New Invasion
i nf "Rumania Through
i r i ...
.iransyivuiuu
rifte battles arc now raging on
fronts in the Balkans. In the
dja, south of the Constanza-Ger-
Kauwny, Russo-Kumnnian and
ItahrBulgar forces are engaged in
fighting which, Berlin asserts,
E'rcached n deadlock. Bucharest,
r, reports that the German allies
been thrown back and that the
Rumanian army, assuming the
pive, is counter-attacking with
i vigor. Sofia' admits that the
t-Rumanians are maintaining tneir
ns with greal stubbornness.
Macedonia, the French, Serbians
Russians are continuing their ad-
fe'on Monastir. The Paris War Of-
aay reports an advance of three
i by the French and the repulse of
rfan attacks. London announces
t the Bulgars are retreating, but are
pring to defend Monastir at all
The Serbians are pushing their
i in an attempt not to permit the
ns to entrench.
German forces are advancing
w invasion of Rumania through
yania, following the retreat of
aanians to their own frontier.
aanians have befen thrown back
3eTHn"a'sscrt3v The German
ce says the Teuton troops have
l 'frontier heights on both sides
lnlcan Pass, south of Petroseny.
et, however, reports that the
ans have halted their-retreat and
paring to make a new stand on
' territory.'
ad reports new Russian gains
Carpathians and tho repulse of
attacks in Gahcia and on the
i.
ttdyance by tho French at Verdun
, repulse of German counter-
l ft reported by Paris, while Lon-
Bnounccs a gain by British troops
tif tho Ancre. Berlin claims tho
are of trenches south of Ran-
ll.on the Somroc, but admits the
! to hold positions regained south-
' Rancouf t and at Bouchavcsnes.
RUMANIANS TAKE
BNSIVE ON DOIJRUDJA LINE;
BERLIN REPORTS DEADLOCK
BUCHAREST, Sept 21.
Rumanian troops ave taken the
MM on tho whole Dobrudja front after
g German and Bulgarian attacks
w now counter-attacking, It was of-
r announced today.
w 01 I'etroseny, the Rumanians Jiavo
their retreat befnrA Auatrn.Oerman
i and are fortifying their new positions.
nrni.iM nr,t i
ITO-German fnTTAi gm nnw mlvanrlrir
w Invasion of Itumanla on tho
jrwwrn frontier, this afternoon's of.
statement Indicated.
reutonlo forces have occupied
r Heights on holh !! of ti Vuli-nn
L'lOllfh rtf T-. r.
advanced ten miles Into Transyl-
r-"rtiury nave Decn thrown back tp
rudja, the battle has reached a
y wun neither side gaining ground.
SMU1 and Tliiltravla.. ....- ,..... .
I Serbian attacks at Kalmakalan and
Dgiena district of northern Ma-
PCH GAIN THREE MILES
' ADVANCE ON MONASTIR;
BULGARIANS IN RETREAT
forr. 1"J "?'V '.'..
IK tt t Aiiiea jeii
tUJi . '"ii nave aavancea tnree
rd H h i860. UMtlg nfty.prlson-
RfW511 Kn wa mad southwest of
wgarlans are delivering the roost
FM eB M f. Coluxnn Twe
HE WEATHER
-
OFFICIAL FORECAST
1 rhiloArlnl,;, 1 ..A- ... .
V tuniAtiimma J...- I ... .
it-; " vwBjf KHsetuta
rVf, Wth poatibly some light
p rruhy fair; wmnotet warmer
--. m mummy wmi.
WA KIVKK TIOK CHANflM
ls I II iai if Jt n J-J z
L!?j.7fi 78i ni rfr f 5
ri
PnLLADELPULV, TJXUHSDAY, SEVTEM113SU 21, 1D1G
Corimaur, 1018, st n rctua Limu Comtahi
:HHsiwnM
- sJ m. sssH
MAYOR J. M. r.itnT,wv
Boston's Chief Executive, who has
begun suit against a Boston news
paper for libel nlleged to hnve been
contained in a cartoon and article
it..? J"6 Mayor's connection
U10.,."!"!, "Where Are My
Children?" which was banned by
the Pennsylvania censors.
NO MORE LUXURIES
FOR UNDERGRADUATES
AT LELAND STANFORD
University President Says Big
Allowance Makes Poor Stu
dent Auto3 Not
Allowed'
NO dRCHIDS FOR CO-EDS
University Head Talks
About Wealthy Students
AUTOMOBILES take students oft"
tho campus.
There is no need for parents to
supply money for orchids or taxi
hire..
Poor boy makes a better record
in college nnd afterward.
The student who can't stand the
clean, simple, industrious campus life
should go elsewhere.
PALO ALTO, Cal., Sept. 21. Wealth Is
a handicap to the college student and tho
poor boy has the advantage, according to
Dr. Hay Lyman Wilbur, president of Lcland
Stanford UnUerslty, In a statement today,
As a consequence of this belief Doctor
Wilbur decreed that, beginning this year,
oUtos way not 4)0 owned 6V "st tiileiuT; "fhaf
too frequent dances, tho purchaeo of ex
pensive flowers fpr co-eds and similar
luxuries will be banned.
Doctor Wilbur Is so conlnced ho Is right
about this that he has sent a circular letter
to students parents saying students with
too much money are not desired at the
school. It they are Inclined to spend their
time In the pursuit of pleasure. Tho letter
urges parents to refrain from too liberal
allowances and warns them that, as tho
number of entrants this "year is limited,
those students who fall to show they aro
doing honest work wljl not bo permitted
to remain.
Stanford does not particularly seek poor
boys and discourage the entrance of the
wealthy. Doctor Wilbur explains, but ex.
perlenco has shown that the poor boy has,
on the whole, made a better record, both as
a student and nfterward. Ills appeal,
Doctor Wilbur says, Is an endeavor to Bave
the wealthy la,d from his own particular
dangers. i
"It takes time to run an automobile, and
It often leads to life off the campus, to
extravagance and much foolishness," says
the letter, adding: "Thero Is plenty to
do In the way of variety right at the uni
versity, with Its swimming pools, athletic
fields, gymnasiums, beautiful walks and the
like Thero Is no need to go to San Fran
cisco moro than onco or twice a semester,
and this trip can bo conveniently and
Cheaply made by train. There Is no nerd
Continued on Pare llif. Column Nix
HIGHER WATER
RATES PROPOSED
IN COUNCILS' BILL
Calls for Increases of Ap
proximately Fifty Per
Cent and Many Meters
PUBLIC SCHOOLS MUST PAY
Changes Advocated
in New Water Bill
INCREASE of approximately fifty
per cent in water meter rates.
Minimum meter rate of ?5 increased
to $8.
Bate of four cents for 1000 gal
lons increased to 5 1-3 cents.
Compulsory installation of meters
In many business establishments and
in all schools and chnritablo in
stitutions. Board of Education to pay for
water used in nil public school build
inns. These must nil be metered.
Director of P,ubllc Works empow
ered to force the installation of
meters in dwellings nnd buildings
whero waste is excessive.
New rates become effective on
January 1, 1917.
Aims to check enormous waste,
reducing city's annual consumption
almost one-half; also to increnso the
city's revenue. t
Higher rates for water, the compulsory
Installation of meters In public schools,
charitable Institutions and many business
establishments and other radical changvs
are provided for In a bill Introduced In
Common Council this afternoon at tho di
rection of tho special Joint commlttco on
water meters nnd rates.
Tho planned-for legislation Is expected
not only to put the city's $60,000,000 water
plant on a better paying baBls, but will
provide additional revenues nnd above all
check tho enormous waste of water, thus
forestalling the shortage of water which
has been threatening Philadelphia for many
years. ft
Tho bill, which was Introduced hy Chair
man Joseph P. Gaffney, of the Joint com
mittee, was referred to tho committee In
which It originated, and public' hearings aro
planned for tjie near future toglo tho citi
zens an opportunity to express their opin
ions. ,
The now meter rates provldo for a big
increase InJUo minimum mMer raU, while
.tho fixture rates arc not changed materially.
Tho minimum meter rato of 15 Is Increased
to J8 for an allowance of 60,000 gallons.
The present rato of I cents for 1000 gal
lons Is Increased to S 1-3 cents.
According to the prolslons of 'tho bill,
the compulsory Installation of meters Is
urged In bars, baths, breweries, foundries,
laundries, public garages, charitablo Insti
tutions and public schools 'and In all In
stitutions where water Is furnished at a
discount and In all buildings wh'oro auto
matic syphon flushing tanks aro used.
Tho Installation of meters will be at tho
expense dt tho owner of tho premises and
tho bill requires the consumer to bo re
sponsible for keeping tho meter In good con
dition. -
PUBLIC SCHOOLS TO PAY
A radical chango Is urged In regards to
tho water furnished the public schools.
For the first time In tho city's history, the
Hoard of Education will bo required 'to
pay for tho water used In the 380 or .more
school buildings In this city, If the ordi
nance Is adopted. The charge pnnldcd Is
a smaA ono ; schools both public and pri
vate will be allowed tho clghty.flvo per
cent discount allowed to charitable Insti
tutions, which Is to be continued. Tho ordi
nance required that all Institutions receiv
ing tho discount shall be metered.
Tho new rates aro made effective on
January 1, 1917, but, owing to tho neces
sary delay In Installing so many meters.
Contlnbtd on 1'ase FIt, Column Ono
PIUOE ONE OJSNT
mgr: m'devitt
is made bishop
of harrisburg
Parish Schools' Head Conse
crated to Episcopacy by
Archbishop
IMPRESSIVE CEREMONIES
Services at Cathedral Attended
by Many Prelates and
Educators
atonslRnorThlllp It. McDevIM, for seven
teen years superintendent of parochial
schools In this city, was consecrated Bishop
uf Harrlsburg today at the Cathedral of
SS. Peter nnd Paul.
All tho ancient pomp and dignity of the
Catholic Church was witnessed by thou
sands of persons who crowded Into tho
edifices for the ImpressUo ceremonial, which
followed Monslgnor McDcUtt's elevation to
the bishopric by Popo Benedict.
With tho vast auditorium of .the cathe
dral decorated for the formal sen Ices, tho
Most Ilcv. Kdmnnd V. Prendcrgast, Arch
bishop of Philadelphia, performed tho otllco
of consecration. Ho was assisted by tho Ht.
ltev. John K. FltsMnurlco and tho lit. llev.
John J, McCort, assisting consecrating
bishops.
Tho sermon speeding Bishop McDevIlt on
to his new work was preached by Jton
slgnor James P. Turner, prothonotary
apostolic and rector of the Church of tho
Natklly of tho Blessed Virgin Mary. Trac
ing tho history of the apostolic succession
from tho fountain-head, ho took as his text
the gospel according to St. Matthew, xxvlli,
18-10-20:
"And Jesus coming spoKo to thctn. Bay
ing: 'All power is glcn to Mo In heaven
nnd In earth. Going therefore, teach ye nlj
nations; baptizing them In tho Xamo of tho
Father and of tho Son und of the Holy
Ohost. Teaching them to obscro nil
things whatsooer I have commanded you,
nnd heboid I am with you ull dais, even to
the consummation of the world."
Olin LOUD'S AUTHORITY
"Beforo .giving power to the apostles,"
said Monslgnor Turner, "our Lord first
showed them Ills own power nnd, ns It
were, exhibited to them Ills letters-patent
or credentials, from .which It Is clear by
what authority Ho created them nnd gave
them much power. Therefore He ustd tlioso
magnificent words, 'All power Is glcn to
IaMo-1i heaveotaHd"mrertH?'A"stu'endoU9
ciaim, surciy, aim ono tnat lias been dial
lenged In o,very age of Christianity, Tho
challcngo of His enemies In tho Temple
has been many times repeated, 'By what
authority dost thou these things, nnd who
hath given theo this authority?' (St. Math,
xxl., 23).
"The answer Is easy for him who nslcs
tho question In tho right spirit and scclis
tho light.
"To tho threefold power of tenchlng. min
istering and governing which Christ gavo to
His church, must correspond a threefold
act and obllgattqn on the part of the faith
ful, namely faith, baptism and obedlenco
to the law and to the Church. Through
faith tho promises of tho Gospel and Its
obligations are known; through baptism
both are received, and through obedlenco
obligations aro discharged and promise
aro fulfilled.
"As no mere man could glvo such a com
mission, so man alono could not hope to
dischargo It, We tan Imagine' tho con
sternation which seized tho apostles when
this greatest mission In nil history was
communicated to ' them. Still Ignorant,
timid, ambitious fishermen and husbandmen,
In spite of their course In the apostolic
school, they See themselves about to be
separated from their great leader forever,
nnd hear Him enjoining them to do that
which Ho Himself has apparently failed to
accomplish. But how quickly their doubts
are dispelled and their fears put to flight
Continued on Tare Seven, Column One
DEMOCRAT LEADERS
HERE FOR CONFERENCE
McCormick, Morgenthau and
Palmer Among .Chiefs Who
Discuss Penna. Situation
Plans for financing the Democratic cam
paign la Pennsylvanlaand reorganizing the
factlpns within the party were discussed to
day at a conferenco at tho Hellevue-Strat-ford.
It was attended by Vance C. McCor
mick, Democratic national chairman, who
Is directing the Wilson ranipalgn; Henry
Morgenthau, former Ambassador to Turkey,
who Is aiding In the direction of the cam
paign; Former Congressman A. Mitchell
Palmer, of Stroudsburg. and many others
from all parts of the Slate,
Among others who took a conspicuous
part In the proceedings was Acting State
Democratic Chairman Joseph F. Ouffey.
The conference was followed by a meeting
of the Democratio State executive commit
tee. When questioned concerning his views
of the. results of the New York election, Mr.
McCormick said;.
"The Democrats are well pleased with
the result In New York yesterday. The per
centage of political Independents and per
sons of-progrenelve'thoiiB-ht can be taken
as a crlterloa showing that a sufficient num
ber of Progressives In the country will vote
for "Wilson jo elect him.
n do ot necessarily mean men of the
Progressive party, but those of progressive
thought) the kind of men who supported
Wilson's progressive policies and who are
standing by him now,"
Ur McCormick showed by his general
attitude that he was decidedly ojrtlmletlo as
f thiwitooma the election in NovemUr.
XuZm h woakl make no projcla. to
with Uw lrs.
CITY HELD POWERLESS
TO CHECK BREADvPRICE
jfeasures Bureau Chief Says
Bakers Have Right to'Fix
Cost of Products
Nonaction against the bakers on account
of any Increase In the prices of bread can
bo legally brought unilc existing laws, ac
cording .to announcement this morning by
John Vlrdln, supervisor", the Bureau of
Standards and Measures. The old law pro
viding that bread must be sold by the
pound cannot compel any scale of prices,
said Mr. Vlrdln. He showed that Invest!
gatlo.n'of his assistants found the average
weight of loaves sold In this city to be
slightly over a pound.
The threatened Increase Jri the bread price
was' brought Into closer notice by the an
nouncement yesterday that bakers would
soon raise the price of rolls, cinnamon buns,
coffee cakes and corn muffin from ten cents
'a dozen retail to twelve cents. It was not
said, however, that the common loaf would
be Increased in price.
This increase was by action of many
bakers after the Kolb Baking Company had
volunteered as pioneers la the new price,
due to the Increase In the cost of raw ma
terials and labor employed In baking.
Philadelphia consumers, Mr. Vlrdln said,
are considered to receive more bread for
their money than the people of any other
city Ik tho UnlteS States, and In view
of tlie Increasing prices ot flour and labor,
lie mVi, the prices are not feujfe. If th
takers deeUe that they must receive more
ar their ( he saM, kU huru
own Botet out v.M swun f ro.
UMtM audi astieu.
U. S.-MEXIC0 BOARD
FIXES PATROL PLAN
' T?
Pershing Forces to Remain and
Carranzistas to Guard
Border
NICW LONDON, Conn.. Sept. 21. The
Mexican-American Commission has about
finished Its first task that of settling the
problem of bolder patrol.
Tho tentative program provide that Ocn.
eral Pershing's forces shall remain where
they are for the present. There Is an
additional provjso by which the Carranza
forces will take over a lbera.l share of the
worlv of protecting the border,, but Its exact
form has not been revealed.
Tha. entire plan Is being submitted to
General Bliss for his approval. Some re
vamping for military reasons may sugirest
Itself to Ullsa. The whole plan soon will
be In ship for subndsslon to Washington
and Mexico for approval. If the scheme
succeeds and Carranza forces are found
adequate, then withdrawal of American
troops will be accomplished later.
Villa's activities around Chihuahua will
not vrtally nffect the situation.
Woman JM of Injuries From Wreck
YOIIK , Pa.. Sept. Jl. Mrs. Theodore
Logy?. Westminster, Md., died at the York
Hospital early today, the fourth of an
automobile party struck by a, Pennsylvania
express near here several weeks -0 to
succumb to Injuries received. She was un
aware of the .death of hef husband, which
occurred at the time of the accident
Mr. KdMimda Hag RmUw flight
Henry R. BdmuiwU, president of th.
poard of Wucatlc ad dean 5 the 4!
talralty court, pass ad a rtl. nlgut to.
lawhujf the MttmsHkbM accHent. a whkL
ZZT"t?ZH JrrLT? "5P ?
ot le be serious.
QUICK NEWS
PITTSBURGH..
PHILLIES.
3 0 10
0 0 0 0
'TRAIN HITS AUTO? ONE KILLED, SEVERAL HURT'
CAMBItlDQE srniNGS, pft., Sept. 21 One ulna was killed,
a niau and a woman wcro probably fatally Injured nnd four others
were hurt when nn automobile carrying n party of Crawford County
residents to the Erlo exposition was struck by a fast freight on tho
Erie Itallroad at the Venango street crossing hcio today.
GUARDSMEN'S FAMILIES TO GET AID FROM U. S.
WASHINGTON, Sopt.-21. The War Department will make its
first payments out of tho $2,000,000 militia relief fund tonight.
Taymtnts of 00 each aio to' be made to the families of twelve Na
tional Ouardsmen from Wisconsin, North Carolina nnd Illinois. So
far these nre file only applications received at tho department.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Tirst Havro do Qracd race, 2-year-olds, 5 1-2 furlongs Golden
Hod, 112, Troxlcr, 91.40, ?3.10, ?2.70, won; Whirling Dun, 115,
Davies, ?8.40, ?5.20, second; Deckmate, 115, J. McTnggart, $3.00,
third. Time, 1.07 4.-5.
Second Havro de Grace lace, handicap steeplechase, 3-year-olds
and up, 2 miles Goldven Vale, 145, Drown, $5.60, $2.60, out, won;
Baybrook, 155, Kleineck, $2.80, out, second; ronioter, 135, O'ouuor,
out, third. Time,, 4.03.
REVOLUTION FLAMES IN CRETE
PAIUS, Sept. 21. A Havas dispatch from Athens today says that a revolution1
has broken out In tho Greok Island of Crcto and that tho revolutionists have pro
claimed n provisional government.
$50,000 BET ON HUGHES TO $25,000 ON, WILSON
NEW YOIHC, Sept. 21. Betting on tho national clectlon'l's now'ln'fuir swlnfj.
With tho Stato primaries out of tho way, Hughes money Is plentiful on Wall street,
nnd Wilson Imckera uro by no means scarce. Todny bets In excess of $50,000 ore
reported to liavo been placed on Hughes at odds of two to one.
GERMAN'S ATTEMPT TO KILL VENIZELOS FAILS
I-ONDON, Sept. lil.-r-An attempt by a German military attacho to assassinate
ox-TYemler'VenUeloa of drccco failed, says n Central Nows dispatch from Itomo. The
dispatch adds that King Constuntlne Is vlrtuully n prisoner In his palucc, two lines
of trenches haying been dug In front of tho Klng'iresldenco.
FIRE DESTROYS BOX CARS VORTH $50,000
DETIIOIT, Mich., Sept. 21. Flro toduy damaged or destroyed fifty-two box
enrs on tho 1'ero Marquette Knllroad loading tracks here. Tho loss was $50,000.
Threo cars loaded with explosives wero moved from tho lire zone in time. '
BULGARIAN PARLIAMENT TO MEET OCTOBER 15
liUItN'K, Sept. 21. The Hulgarlun Sobranjo will nssemblo October 15, tho Bul
garian Minister to Switzerland announced today, Tho Sobranje will vbto an expres
sion of, confidence In tho Government and also will voto on expenditure for carry
ing on tho war.
BOMB OF GREAT DESTRUCTION AT FRANKFORD ARSENAL
A twelve-pound bomb being perfected at Krankford Arsenal by Lester V. Bar
low showed 318 "serviceable frairments." llnrlow bays that such a bomb would bo
fatal at 600 feet from tho point of explosion or within a 1200-foot circle. It is aaid
to bo moro cffectlvo than any in nuropo.,
BAKERS SEE 20-CENT BREAD WITHOUT EMBARGO
NEW YOIHC, Sept, 21. President "Wilson Is asked to call a special session
of Congress to declare an embargo upon tho exportation of wheat, and Federal and
State InvostlKHtlnns of tho Increase in the price of flour will be demanded by reso
lutions udoptod by 200 bakers of Brooklyn. Flour at J14 a barrel and bread at 20
ccnttr a loaf next spring- unless an embargo is Imposed are forecast.
AMERICANS GIVE $29,000,000 FOR WAR VICTIMS
WASHINGTON. Sept. 21. Slightly less than $29,000,000 has been ghen by
Americana to tho sixty principal war relief societies, according to tho book of the
Carncgio Endowment for International Peace being distributed today. Of'thlB
total $13,000,000 went to sufferers in Allied countries.
FREIGHT HANDLED HERE UP 2,000,000 TONS
Figures arc now available for tho tonnage moved Into and out of rhlladel
phla by tho Pennsylvania, Philadelphia and Reading and Baltimore and Ohio Itntl
roads for 1916 According to statistics furnished the Chamber of Commerco by
these railroads, the three systems handled 31,642,741 tons of freight into and out
of Philadelphia during 1915. This is a gain of moro than 2.000,000 tons over tho
previous year. Tho total tonnugo moved In und out of tho city during 1914 and
1915 aggregates 6C,9S7,042.
ST0NEMEN ORDER
AS BOON TO MAN
Dr. H. C. Stone v Declares
Business Is Not Conduct
ed in Public Press
HISTORY OF FELLOWSHIP
Transactions Faithfully Record
cd in Minutes, He
Contends '
MILLION PAID BY AMERICANS FOR ISLAND
HONOLULU, Sept. 21. Tho island of Lanal, of the Hawaiian group, has been
purchased by Unltod States Senator Key Plttman, of Nevada, and a group of
wealthy Nevada cattlemen. The deal Involves moro than $1,000,000,
BALDWIN'S GETS $10,000,000 SHRAPNEL ORDER
A $40,000,000 order for shrapnel for the nusslan Government has teen turned
over to tho Baldwin Locomotive Works by the JJddystone Ammunition Works
The, contract was obtained bytthe Eddyatone Company moro than a yAir ago but
so many delays occurred that the first completed shells were not shipped until
about six weeks ago. The Baldwin works takes over the contract on a cost per
centagev basis. It is understood that most of the work will be continued at the
Eddystone plant. ,
PORTUGUESE TROOPS INVADE GERMAN AFRICA
LISBON, Sept. 21, Portuguese troops operating in MoaamWque have erewd
the Jtovuma River (SlviHg Oerman East Africa from PoUugtwse Kmt Africa), miya
an ofllcfal statement. "The enemy, whp is making feeble resistance. Km akimUnifcd
armor-plated trenches. Our Mag now Hies four miles over the frostier,"
UNION HELD LIABLE FOR STRIKE DAMAGES
An important opinion that Is expected to havs a far-rcln ct e- the
conflict between capital asd labor has been han4d down by tha Uh1U4 Mat Cii
cult Court of Appeal for th KUrbtH Circuit,' Ivrct, it AscMw tbt trad unions
heretofore exempt from civil suits can be held Ubi n actions u, recover '--mgts'
aristae frefi etrlkes nM other causes. Dmmwm recovered c he treUwl vJta"
the sfcersaen enfi-truet act and the Clayton act, Ttte itirfejf k tb Mm sjC its
klaa ever wad la this ooumtry,
The Itev. II. Charles Stone, head of ths
Stonemen Fellowship, today Issued a atnta.
ment replying to the charges made by the
seccuing members or that order, who have
organised the United ProteaUint Fellow.
ship because of their dissatisfaction with th
manner In which the affairs of tho Btonc
men's Fellowship were conducted.
Doctor Stone's statement follows:
Tho Stoncmen'a Fellowship was es
tablished for tho moral uplift of men,
to know God and to do Ills will.
Thousands of men In tho city of Phil
ndolphla today can testify that It was
through the Fellowship that they came
to know tho Lord Jesus Christ.
Thousands of homes are happier today
because of the Fellowship, and many
churches havo been helped by the Fel
lowship. Tho organisation has two represen
tative and legislative bodl6 the De
greo Council and the Select Council.
Tho Degreo Council Is composed of
tho drgreo masters from cnchVard and
numbers ono hundred and twenty (120)
men. It meets regularly, once a month,
and minutes nre kept of all Its trans
actions. Tho Select Council Is a larger body,
numbering -one, thousand twenty-four
(1024) men, nnd Is composed of th
selectmen from the wnrd divisions,
who are in charge of tho business of
tho Fellowship In their division. This
Select Council also meets regularly
every month, and minutes are kept of
Its transactions.
In addition to these two represent
ative bodies there are separate ward
councils, which meet every week. Bach
ward council chooses Its own select
rncn. Its own degree masters and of
ficers and manages Its own financial
affairs.
There Is, finally, the main body of th
Fellowship, which meets every week;
composed of all members who have
taken any of the degrees.
We do not feel that an organization
such as our needs to conduct Its af
fairs In the columns of tho-dallypress,
but like all such organizations, we are
glad to let the public know matters of
public Interest.
To ' the nbove statement, which
sufficiently .shows the Iruly ,renresen
tntive character of the .organization.
It Is only necessary to add that min
utes of the transactions are faithfully
and acceptably kept
The Stonemen's Fellowship Is trying
to follow humbly In th&footsteps of
the Great Master, whose wo arc, and
whom wo serve. We aro endeavoring
to live out evcryday the spirit of bur
great fellowship chapter (1 Cor., xlll)
"that charity suffercth long, and is
kind. Is not easily provoked, thlnketh
no ovlt II. c. STONE.
Harry T. Baxter, one of the men who
seceded from tho Stonemen's Fellowship, la
commenting on Doctor Stono's statement,
said:
"Doctor Stone Is dodging the Issue' and
r think his stand Is unfair to the public.
Doctor Stone will soon takemore seriously
the disruption In his organization."
William. F, Deakyno said, "Very beautiful
sentiment Is expressed In Doqtor Stone's
statement, but I am afraid but few of us
would be able to Jive up to It."
Applications for membership in th
United Fellowship are comlr.g In rapidly,
according to Harry T Baxter, secretary of
the rebel organization. He predicts bm a r.
suit that the meeting of the Fellowship at
Scottish Illte Hall on Saturday night will
be largely attended.
Mr. Baxter said today that he was mis
quoted regarding some of his assertions
concerning Doctor Stone. He said he had
no desire whatever to Introduce any per
sonal element In the controversy.
"My reason for Joining the now organlza.
Hon," he said, "was due to dissatisfaction
with tho methods of Doctor Stone. I felt
that I could not conscientiously remain with
the organization which ho directed. As to
the report which I made on the matter, If
Doctor Stone can show mo anything In It
which Is not correct I am willing to re
tract all that I have said."
iMrqnE food dealers held
FOR TRIAL; PRODUCE MEN FINED
Twelve Arraigned in Campaign to En
force Sanitary Laws
Twelve merchants were arraigned today
befpre Magistrate Harris at his office, 172J
Market Btreet, charged with violating laws
.regarding the sale of food.
xpe arrests were the result of a campaign
Instituted by the city and State authorities
to compel food "venders to obey the scnltary
regulation. Ilobert M Simmers, spectel
agent of the State palry and Food Commis
sion, acted as prosecutor.
8. W, Kennedy, general manager of th
Kennedy Creamery Company, it South
Water street, was held unasr 148 feat) for
court, charged with telUsg Wi ega to
Jacob Huskln, SSM 'Weedfctnd nvrnu;
Samuel Coaen and Max Oefceji. 1941 Beutb
street, and Sl South Ninth street, respec
lively, were aW mwter fa belt fer,etirton.
the same ehanfe. A PMer. TM Fw&l
street, was hW ,Uf4 $4 -I for omrtf
o,a chars of salting, seal water artMMeHy
coterea. raiuw HsesjtfM.
bretheia, nut m
held unoerfUf 1
In? fteh! deakuresVl
II. LaweM to be UUM i
Four uroduea 4aMN WtM Jtaad lie
ceU for leaving their stamp .(hiiilCV-
MstbUi fe fcy T
George K"C, H tr-aehintst. of Hit
North htity-Oret street, attempting tu n.ae
th street at sHxty-arnt street end uu.
down awttue, ras lruuk by a motoi iruck
and severely kmjiired. He - iakrn tu the
West FfelbvMttna HumUm'i. iio.m.i
(lames MarleWB. H8b wilUn ntit H
cheidfcur, was arreted ei,t errtaee b
tere WaaiettaM Hairu. wKo 1mm ht tar
nraw isspiujg 'jvwuw in MS MA
JUivusKy.
M U Mm siieet, were
Mrt.Mfc.V wt er seU.
kVMssBi rheWlef'Tl 1 1
'"
V " 4
