THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
G j UK ANS
i
i
ATTACK AFTEfi ATTACK
T
TO HOLD T
In an effort to retrieve lost territory, the Germans Wednesday made
violent counter attacks against the French over a three mile front in the
region of the Priez farm and Etoucna vcsnes, north of the Somme.
Teutons threw attack after attack along the line from 9 o'clock in the
morning until dark and at the end of the day the French were holding their
positions, according to Paris, and the battlefield at points was covered with
German dead. '
German penetrated part of Bouch avesnes where the French met them
with the bayonet and dislodged them. Four assaults at the Priez farm
were repulsed bv the French. ,
On the British front inclement we ither still holds opposing sides to ar
tillery duels. In Kussia anu uaiicia aoth Berlin and Vienna report the re
pulse of havy Russian attacks in the Lutsk sector of Volhynia and southeast
of Lemberg, in Galicia. Local successes for Russians in the Carpathians are
conceded by the Teutonic allies who say, however, that on the whole the
Russian attacks in this region were repulsed.
In Transylvania Rumanians apparently have met with a serious reverse
in the region of Hatzog where they have been driven back to the Transyl
vanian Alps and the town of Petroseny and the Shurduk pass, recaptured
from them. In Dobrudja the tide of the battle is fluctuating. Sofia reports
successes for the arms of the Bulgars at certain points while Bucharest claims
a victory for the Rumanians near tnigea.
The western end of the Macedonian front is still the scene of violent com
bats. The Bulgarians, according to Athens, have hastily evacuated Viglitsa
at the extreme end of the line, and fallen back upon Svedsa for a stand in
previously prepared entrenchments, which, if captured, will necessitate the
evacuation of Monastir, Serbia.
Berlin reports that the Germans, who are co-operating with the Bulgars,
have repulsed entente thrusts near Fiorina, Greece. Rome admits that the
Italians on the southern slopes of Monte Beles have been driven back by
the Bulgarians. Artillery fighting predominates on the British and French
fronts.
Aside from bombardments and isolated infantry attacks, the situation
remains unchanged on the Carso front of the Austro-Italian line, where the
Italians are trying to reach Trieste.
Constantinople records successes for the Ottoman forces over the Rus
sians and British, respectively, in Persia and along the Tigris.
Germans Driven Back
PATHS, Sept. 20 (Via London, Sept.
I) Powerful counter attacks by the
Germans against the French In the
neighborhood of Priez farm and E-cm-chavesnes,
north of th Sommc, today
were beaten hack, according to- the
official statement issued by the war
office tonight. The battle raged many
hours along a tiirce mil front, and
the (lirmans succeeded in getting a
tempi rai-y foothold in part of liuu
" havesnes, but were dislodged with the
bayonc t.
Today's official siaiement says:
"North of the river Somme German
forces attacked our positions at hill
Tt! along a line running from the
I'lcry road to the Somme. Their ad
vance was broken by our curtain of
file and by the fire of our machine
nuns. The enemy found it impossible
to reach our lines on the northern
se-tiou, while on the suuthern half
ertnin German detachments v, hich
secured a footing in our advanced po
sitions wer- also driven out by a vig
oious counter attack, delivered by .,mx
troops.
"Artillery fighting of a fairly spir
ited nature is. going on in Hie sector
of Honchavnesiies
"In the Champagne district east of
Soutan hill, as well as in the Vusges
at a ioint northwest of Altkir'ii, at
'a l;s on the i art ol the enemy upon
minor French posts resulted in fail
ure." Berlin Statement
PERLIN. Sept. 20 I Via London)
Today's official statement says:
"Wettern front: Army group of
lYince Rupprecht: There were no
vents of especial importance on the
Somme hatllcfiokl. Isolated enemy at
1a Us were repulsed. We achieved
Mm" sui cess In a hand grenade at -ta-i;
pear Ficr;;. Supplementary news
rtat-s that daring Mondav evening a
French attack from Clery was re
pulsed. "On the western slope of Ln Mort
Homme the French, were driven out
of a small portion, of a trench which
they bad retained. As a result of this
operation, OS prisoners and eight ma
chine guns fell into our hands.
"During the night of Monday our
Vat rots in the Champagne a: the re
sal: ,,f successful enterprises, captured
4f. French and Russian prisoners. Last
right they took a number of French
I risoners south of the Rhein-Rhone
tain I."
Pritish ami French losses in the
laltle of the Somme have reached
ah-iut 5'i'i.ien men, the Overseas News
Agency estimates.
"R'S'ent local sncr-ess-s obtained by
the British on the Somme are her
I'ldea ly the English press as great
'i tories and even occasioned a soe
ci.il mes. a're from King George to the
I'ri'ish commander. Gen. Sir Douglas
Hai--." savs the rows a erenow "It -
said the British occupied the village-!
of Honrs. Martinpuioh and Couree.1
lette in the first, day's fighting, al
though it had been planned to ta'c
thorn in the course of four (lavs of
Tl.lt tie.
"Nverth loss the British were en
abled to make this mlvinre only afte.
eleven v oeks of the most desperate
efforts. Tie result of the battle of
the Somme should be gnaged hi- con
sidering the amount rf French an-1
Reh'tnn territory occupied by the
Germans which amocnts In all 1
a I out ",(:. Ofiu square kilometers. Of
this 2!t,oftn js Belgian and 21.000
Fienili. The efforts made bv the
Fr-'neh and RritiOi have resulted In
tl reoonkuent of l.noi square kilo-
ni 'teis or three per cent. j
"The price paid for this territory is
.
Death Penalty Fixed For
Thieves Down In Mexico
Republican A. P. Leased WlreT
DOFGLAS, Sept. 20.-The death
penalty for thieves having former
criminal records,
was pronounced ny
Colonel A. Frialo
plaza at Agua Prieta, today. Fran-
v n . tut
Cisco Yillareal, aged 25. was the first
victim of the order, being shot to
ueatn oy a nring squaa in tne ceme-
tMIV fltllf ft milo lulllth nf tHt. Inn-n
. ' , -. ... n.,,
He had been convicted on seven, 1
charges of theft and one holdup.
Colonel Friajo requested the city po-
10 PAGES
FA
JilLl
X"
HO
CON
POSITIONS
appalling. According to a conserva
tive estimate the Fritish lost 2i.0,"0n
man up to September 15. Tins to
gether with the French losses brings
up the total to about half a million
men.
Weather Doesn't Stop Work
ROME, Kept. 20 (Via London) In
clement weather in the Isonxo region
ivhTt the Italians recently have
scored a.lvances in til direction of"
Trieste. has not interfered with the
work of consolidating the newly oc
cupied positions on the Cnriz.) pla
teau. The war office today announced
progress with this task, mentioning
otherwise only snaredic artillery an.l
minor infantry activity on the Isonzo
front.
Italian troop:- scored an advance In
the Rrenla volley, capturing a. hill
norh of Whio. '
Austrians Defeat Rumanians
VIENNA, Sept. 2li I Via London)--Austrian
troops have defeated the Ru
manians southeast of Hoetzing yi
Transylvania, says the official state
ment issued ty Austrian general
headquarters. The Asutnans have re
captured Pietaseny and the Shurduk
pass in the Transylvania Alpini.
Greece Makes Demand
LONDON, Kept, 20. Renter's tele
gram company says it learns that the
Grr-e'k note to Germany is a firm de
mand that the Greek troops be
brought to the frontier so that they
may be conducted to Greet e. The
Crook government guarantees they
will not he forced to serve with any
enemy of Germany and at the same
time disavows entirely the action of
r.eneral HadjopouloR who it la
'daimed, disregarded orders to trans
port his troops to another Greek port.
Successes for Turks
CONSTANTINOPLE, Sent. 20. V'a
Perlin, by wireless to Sayville) Suc
cesses for the Turks against the Rus
sians in Persia and the British on th-i
Tigris in Mesopotamia are announced
in today's Turkish war office report.
It is estimated that the Russians lost
approximately S.ODO men in the recent
fighting in the neighborhood of Ra
madan on the Persian front.
Italians Driven Eac'
SOFIA, Sept. "19 (Via London, Sept.
2fi) Official announcement was made
her" today that the Italian troops on
th-j Macedonian front have been driv-
f Continued on Page TwoT
WILSON'S ATTITUDE
IDE ISSUE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire Gibbons, who "favor temperance but
SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 20 Wheth- oppose prohibition," was questioned by
er President Wilson is opposed to pro- Dr. Ira Landrith, the prohibition vice
hibition became an issue in California's i presidential candidate. Later tonight
heated wet and dry fight today with i Oliver W. Stewart, national campaign
the return to the state of the coast-to- manager for the prohibitionists, tele
coast prohibition campaign train. graphed the president asking if the
Assertion made in a wet pamphlet ' ""T,ts here were misrepresenting his
freelv distributed ut the nrohihition allItuae-
meetings along the San Joaquin valley
t,,,iu ihnt ho .i,i ., ioi
today that the president among eleven
including
widely known Americans.
former President Taft and Cardinal
, . . . . .
!icc 0f Douglas to turn over to him the 1
person of Francisco Romero, another
alleged thief, now serving a sentence,
lor vagrancy, saying he nad pro-;
iiwuiivcti iii- uvnt i nri it-i i: MUi-tiiiM
him also.
The Douglas officials
fused
It was currently reported today that
, two other executions, those of a baker
Q 11 A on n i . K i 1 U ll 1
ouivlu.,c tiiouiirur. aiirseu
to be ennnoetoH w lli V,o I ,iii
movement, had taken place last night,
j but this could not be confirmed.
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 21, 1916
EFFORTS
Plot To Use Dvnammln Gotham Strike Is
MILLION ARE MADE
-
!
ROOSEVELT IS TO
SPEAK IN COLORADO
DENVER, Sept. 20. Theodore
Roosevelt expects to deliver one or
more addresses in Colorado before
the November election in support
of Hughes and Fairbanks, Phillips
B. Stewart, chairman of the repub
lican state central committee,-announced
today. The dates have not
been fixed. Other speakers ex
pected are Mr. Fairbanks and for
mer Senator Beveridge of Indiana.
-
FOB PROTECTION
ON LAND 00 SEA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MILW At'KEE, Sept. 2". Charles E.
Hughes in his speech here again to
night outlined his attitude toward the
protection of American rights as fol
lows: "I propose that we shall protect
and enforce American rights on land
and sea. I propose that we shall
protect and enforce American rights
on land and sea with fear and un
flinchingly with respect to American
lives, American property and Amer
ican commerce. We have no in
trigues." Mr. Hughes' reference to .American
rights was contained in a speech in
which he made reply, one by one. to
what he termsed democratic criticism!-,
for having aided business and
outlined the republican urogram. Jn
so doing, he dealt chiefly with suc
cess mentioned in Mr. Wilson's
speech of acceptence.
.The Underwood tariff he called a
measure "that must he undone if we
are to have a sure basis of prosperity
in this country." He reiterated that
the anti -trust law instead of being
clarified bv definition had been made
"more uncertain."
"I must say, ' he declared, referring
to the democratic oartv, "after having
read several of their statutes that
hev are th! most wonderful phrase
makers on recor 1."
The federal reserve act. the nomi
nee said, far from being a democratic
-neasuVe. pure and simple, ya.s taken
n great part from material supplied
oy a repuolican commission and a
lrnfr of -i republican bill.
"Whatever salvation from panic we
have had lhus far is due to the en
lightened foresight of the republican
'arty," Mr. Hughes said in connection
with the extension of the Aldrieh act
Turing t'K- threatened financial de
tiicssion in the early days of the
'Snropean war.
The -child labor law. Mr. Hughes
said, failed to protect hundreds of
thousands of children at work in
various states under democratic ad
ministration. "Call the roll of the states" he said,
"and you will find that the states
where children Ere. emancipated from
too early labor are republican c'ate;
and that the states where child labor
still exists are under democratic con
trol." The federal workmens' compensa
tion law, the nominee reiterated,
should he made to protect other than
the federal employes under its scope.
If should extend to all persons en
gaged in pursuits of interstate com
merce. Leads to Civil War
GREEN BAY, Wis., Sept. 20.-
( Continued on Page Twol
-The
ON LIQUOR
IN CALIFORNIA
.,f.'resicle-nt, Wilson has declared his
willingness to see prohibition come bv
?tates'" r,r- Landrith said in an address
;,, "'r'1' e s on rec-
ora as actually favoring nrohibition in
mailing suumcrn state. He will not
now verify the asertion of the saloon
ists of California, that, along with
Clarence Darrow, Hugo Munsterherg,
William Howard Taft, and Henry Wat
terson, who are named in the pamphlet
that he is on the liquor dealers' side
in tnese wet and dry state fights. 1
"The president will not defy the suff
rage lightning of the nineteen dry
Zt Z n't k' VJ ' ""'"TV" ,?,c.?u-
in any state? Let him mVke such a
pro-liquor declaration and his defeat
is assured. His friends now believe his
t' prr inn i nortain 1
.1. rranK Haniy. the nresidentiui enn
didate, continued his attack on rhor-w-
IE. Hughes for his silence on the liquor
question and appealed to all voters for
. . .. r miC-JO 1UI
support. 01 tne prohibition platform
...i,iv. v.- . j . in.
which he termed as comprehensive
any other issues other than the liquor
ijuraiiou,
AMERICANS
SEVEN THOUSAND
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Sept. 20. Nearly a
minion people have been made home
less by one of the greatest floods on
record in that section of China, where
the American Red Cross already has
spent $ioo,ono for flood protection,
and where the $30,000,000 loan for
reclamation work which was post
poned by the war was to have been
spent. Reports to the state depart
ment today from the American con
sul at Nanking said the Hwai rjvoT
had inundated an area of about 7,000
square miles in Anhui province. Ap
Ieals for aid have been sent out. All
the autumn crops were destroyed.
The flood occurred in an alluvial
section where the north-to-south pass
age of the Grand canal had dammed
a large lake and allowed the Hwai
river too little snace to carry off the
excess water. Today's delayed ad
vices described conditions several
weeks ago. but officials believe there
probably has been little improvement.
The state department summed up
its dispatches on the subject in the
following announcement:
' The department has received from
the Arr.eric.n consul at Nank;n dis
patches giving detailed information
regarding recent extensive floods
along the Hwai river in Anhui prov
ince. "The inundation is equal to if not
greater than the one of )"". An
area of some 2.00 square miles was
submerged under from three to fifteen
feet of water, and from Julv 11 to July
21 . the water rea;"-he1 such a -height
as to submerge ail except very high1
ground in an area estimated at 7,000
"ouare miles.
"The flood extended throughout
eight districts in northern Anhui.
There are ten i-itics of considerable
size in these eight districts, with a
total population estimated at from
son 00 to 1,000,000 people.
The total ooii'ilat"" the cioor)ed
region is approximately 2,300,000 peo
ple. While it is thought that coin
oaratively few lives were lost, crops
and personal property have been de-
'troved and there are thousands of
destitute j.-eotile. nearly ell of whom
e now subjects of charitv.
"The supplv of foodstuffs on hand
will be inadequate to feed the people
and practically all the autumn crops
in the eight districts have been en
tirely dostroved. Apooals for relief
have come in from the various af
fected districts"
In the flood of IMS nearlv 1 000 Onn
lives were lost. Soon afterward C. D.
Jameson, an American engineer was
sent to China to Work out a reelamn.
Hon system. In 1011. Colonel Slehert
of the Red Cross, anprovfd Jame
son's plans, and the Chinese govern-
r.ieni negan arrangements for a, S:!0 -ooo.ofio
loan to put them 'nto effect.
The European war. however made it
impossible to raise the capital
ENGINEERS TO GLOBE
Republican A. P. Leased W'reT
BISBEE, Sept. 20. Two hundred
members of the American Institute of
Mining Engineers soent the dav visit
ing the mines of the Warrer, district
and after a banquet in its honor left
for Globe, Ariz., at 10 o'clock, this
evening.
Longer And Less
Flaring Skirts Is
Fashion's Decree
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 20. Longer and
less flaring skirts are indicated by the
fall fashions, says the semi-annual
report ot the Silk Association of
America. They will be of ankle
leng.h. frequently made of pleats and
requiring as much or more material
than last season, is the prediction.
Paris fashions, it is asserted, have not
favored the extremely short, almost
rreaivisn sKirts wnicn nas Oeen worn
here this year.
The wearing of these skirts unques
tionably has increased the demand for
silk hosiery. Imth fancy and plain
says the reports of the expert.
FOUR ARE DEAD IN
WRECK NEAR KINGMAN
I KINGMAN, Sept. 20. Two more
I died' today bringing the death list
I up to four as a result of the wreck
J early this morning on a curve
I about a half mile east of Kingman
i wnen the locomotive, tender, com- I
' bination buffet and baggage car. a I
I dining car and one Pullman sleeper I
I of Train No. 3. westbound, jumped I
the track and rolled down a small 1
I embankment. The dead: Engin- I
I eer Ralph Gohlson and Fireman I
I Michael Osborne, both of Needles, j
I Cal.: third cook, William Dickens,
I of Colorado Springs, Colo., and sec- I
I ond cook, John Truddick, of Chi
cago. -A
a-
S UAH
1
A INUNDATED
TO R
HUELESS
RAIL WA Y EXECUTIVES
CONFER ON NEW LAW
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .
NEW YORK, Sept 20. The railway
,-. i. i on ,,.i,i.i,
"""u,ra iuo....., "
comprises the heads of the chief rail-
way systems ui mis couiilij, uuiu 113
first session 'in this city today since
the passage of the eight-hour bill.
According to several of the conferees
the eight-hour law was only one of a
number of subjects discussed, the
committee plans to meet the joint
committee of congress appointed under
the Newlands resolution to inquire
into railroad regulation, which begins
its sessions early in November.
Frank Trumbull, chairman, presided
at today's session, the other members
in attendance in eluding Robert S. Lov-
LAST
L
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Sept. 20. Intense
study of the retaliatory legislation
passed in the lust hours of congress
has convinced all concerned diplomats
and some' state . department officials
that part of the legislation is unen
forceable, part is of doubtful legality,
and the Valance is so broad that only
the most careful administration will
prevent entirely unforeseen complica
tions. While Secretary Lansing declined
today to indicate hat conclusions he
has reached regarding the legal feat-1
ures of the retaliatory measures, and
pointed out that the rowers they con
ferred on the president were for use
only as a last resort, it was apparent
that some uncertainty had developed
over the manner in which provisions
for refusing clearance to ships dis
criminating against American goods
nnd for laying retaliatory trade em
bargoes, could be put into effect.
The section specifically authorizing
import embargoes against belligerents
which restrict their imports could not
be used at all, they declare, because
the right of a belligerent to limit its
own imports never have been ques
tioned: while there may be manv ob
stacles to enforcement of a similar
seefion authorizing embargoes against
belligerents interfering witfi the trade
between neutrals.
Asked specifically about these stric
tures state department officials said
they were not willing to admit the
validity of the contentions r.dvancerl.
They ho e not yet finished their ex
iminaliin of ihe legislation.
Declaring that only a small nortion
of allied shipping could be reached bv
the law, the allied diplomats say that
in many cases a ship's cargo space . is
let out in t!me charter to an individ
ual or eompanv having control of that
pace irrespective of the owners of
the vessel. The American law that
any ship not giving space to American
freight provided there were room for
it would, thev insist, be invalid as the
owners could defend themselves by
(Continued on Page Two)
ON VILLA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW LONDON, Conn., Sept. 20.
Until an official count of the reported
attack on Chihuahuaby Villa forces is
received by the Mexican-American
joint commission, its members will not
enter into any agreement on a plan for
the maintenance of peace on the border,
it was learned tonight.
The American commissioners con
ferred at length late today with Coun
sellor Polk' of the state department.
Prior to the conference, the American
representatives spread before the Mexi
can commissioners a mass of documen
tary evidence relating to conditions in
Mexico.
The submission of the inforirlfction in
possession of the Americans was some
what in the nature of rebuttal to in
formation that had been offered by the
Mexicans. The reports placed before
the commission by the Mexican repre
sentatives are of a character calculated
to depict a rapidly recovering country
and to offset stories that criticised the
government in answer to localities with
lack of efficiency.
The American representatives have
not questioned the reports submitted
by the Mexicans, but much of the data
they exhibited today was contrary to
that offered by the Mexicans.
The details of the evidence submit
ted were not revealed, but it is known
that they covered a wide range and
dealt with social, economic ana mili
tary conditions. Much of it related to
health conditions and it indicated the
prevalence at various places of typhus
1
EGISLA ION
0 N IT T
10 PAGES
1 POSITI
JZ
BY FLOOD
ett, chairman of the Union Pacific,
F. Bush of the Missouri Pacific, A.
J- Earling of the Chicago, Milwaukee
and St. Paul. Howard Elliott of the
New Yr,rk, Xev Haven and Hartford,
W. J. Harahan of the Seaboard Air
Line; Hale Holder, of the Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy: L. F. Loree
of the Delaware and Hudson; C. H.
Markham of the Illinois Central;
Samuel Rea of the Pennsylvania: A.
H. Smith of the New York Central;
Henry Walters of the Atlantic Coast
Line, and Daniel Willard of the Bal
timore & Ohio.
Alfred P. Thorn of Washington, D.
C. counsel to the committee, outlined
the legal phases of the Nevvland legis
lation. -
YPHDID WIPED
OUT ON BORDER
Republican a. p. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, Sept. 20.
Para typhoid, an epidemic of which
threatened Mission and other points at
which New York national guardsmen,
were encamped practically lias been
wiped out. Colonel Walter D. McCaw,
chief surgeon of the southern depart
ment, said today. Health conditions
along1 the border are excellent, with
many vacant cots in the hospitals,
Colonel McCaw announced. In three
weeks there have been no deaths from
infection among the 108,000 men on
the border.
Five died during the week ending
September 16, from injuries, and there
was one death from appendicitis.
Sickness among the soldiers was re
ported as follows: On September 16:
El Paso, 1.7 per cent; Nogales, Ariz., 7
per cent; Arizona points outside of
Nogales, 3.8 per cent; Laredo, 1.4 per
cent; Brownsville district, 2 per cent.
On the March
MERCEDES, Texas, Sept. 20. The
First and Second regiments of infan
try, Tennessee national guard, passed
through here today en route to Mc
Allen and Pharr, where they will take
the places of one New York regiment
recently sent home, and the second
New York infantry which General
Funston has ordered returned home.
El Paso Parade
EL PASO, Sept. 20 The streets of
EI Paso are decorated tonight in honor
of the military parade here tomorrow,
which will be the first full war
strength infantry division review in
the history of the American army.
Such, at least, is the statement of
army officers of high rank, who say-
that not even in civil war times was
an infantry division reviewed at full
war strength.
The parade starts at 7 o'clock in the
morning. Owing to the fatigue of the
march, orders have been issued that
at 10 o'clock every man in the line will
sit down, open his haversack and re
fresh himself with a cold lunch.
It will take the line between five
(Continued on Page Two)
CHIHUAHUA RAID
fever and other disease. The evidence
also included statements dealing with
some of the decrees issued from time
to time relative to taxes and the con
duct of business.
As yet no direct request or demand
has been made by the Mexicans for the
withdrawal of Americans, both the
Mexicans and the Americans tacitly
agreeing that the question of their
withdrawal is incident to the adoption
of a recommendation of some broader
plan for meeting the border problems.
Tame" Yaquis Save Money
And Then Become "Hostile
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Sept. 20. City and coun
ty officials and all employers of Y'aqui
Indians as laborers, must immediately
issue passports to such Indians stating
in detail the home address and all data
of interest in connection with them,
according to a decree issued by tieneral
P. Elias Calles, by consent of Governor
Adulfo de la Huerta.
General Calles says in the decree
that "tame" Yaquis are In, the habit of
working long enough to accumulate
food, clothing, arms and ammunition
and then joining the hostile branch of
VOL. XXVII., NO. 125
QMS
Frustrated
T
WHEN EFFORTS
FOB PEACE FAIL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW Y'ORK, Sept. 20. Rioting was
renewed tonight in connection with the
car strike after efforts of Mayor
Mitchell and others had failed to et
fect a settlement. Several hundred
strikers who attacked four cars, en
gaged in a running fight with police
reserves, during which several, per
sons, including a woman, were hurt.
Many arrests were made.
What the police characterized as a
conspiracy to use dynamite in the
strike was frustrated by the arrest of
a man who asserted he was a striking
motorman. The prisoner had attempt
ed to purchase explosives from a
laborer in a new subway excavation.
The latter reported the case to the
authorities, who set a trap for the
striker. When arrested at the labor
er's home tonight, after two dummy
packages made up in the form of dy
namite had been passed to him, the
prisoner is alleged to have declared he
sought the explosive to blow up a
couple of Broadway cars.
When Police Commissioner Woods
was told today that 6-year-old Louis
Rodelli was dying, a victim of a brick
hnrler, he redoubled his efforts at
clearing roof tops contiguous to the
traction lines, and went into confer
ence with District Attorney Swann to
provide for the speedy punishment of
such offenders. l
The commissioner Issued a warning
to the strikers that all missile-throwers
hereafter arrested will be given the
limit.
Hope of averting the threatened
strike of 700,000 union workers here
In sympathy with the carmen, was
diminished. Mayor Mitchel announced
that a personal appeal to transit com
pany heads to treat with the strikers
was refused flatly. Preparations were
continued by union leaders for the
"walkout," which would paralyze in
dustry throughout the greater city.
The only chance now of averting
the tie-up Monday, it was said, lies
in a conference to be held tomorrow
between a citizens' committee and the
strike leaders. Samuel Gompers and
twenty-five presidents of international
unions, who arrived today, held a con
ference. No definite action was taken.
They will meet again Friday.
Approximately 10,000 women, wives
of strikers and members of x trade
unions, it was announced, will act as
pickets beginning tomorrow. They
contemplate riding on trains in efforts
to induce the motormen and guards to
join the union.
AGAINST FORCED ARBITRATION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEMPHIS. Sept. 20. Jerome Jones,
of Atlanta. Ga., in his annual address
as president of the Southern Labor
Congress, in session here today urged
the congress to go on record in op
position to compulsory arbitration as
a means of settling labor disputes.
He proposed that the federal gov
ernment issue bonds to provide a
fund to furnish employment to work
men in building roads and other pub
lic works in times of industrial de
pression. Mr. Jones naid tribute to
th,e international policies of Presi
dent Wilson, who he declared "actu
ated by a holy patriotism rare in
these days of political pandering, has
kept us in the path of peace," by de
nounced "preparedness hystery," which
he said "has swept the people off their
palance." ,
o
' WYOMING IN LEAD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NFA PORT NEWS, Va. Sept. 20.
L'noffioial reports brought ashore
from the super Treadnaught Wyoming
tonight were that the vessel had led
the Atlantic fleet in individual shin
firing during the target practice on
the southern drill grounds. The
Wyoming which came into Hamilton
Roads today to take Secretary Dan
iels and the navy consulting board to
the drill grounds, was said to have
scored 01 hits out of seventy shots
with her twelve-inch rifles -and lol
hits out of 150 shots with five-inch
guns. The range was not given.
These records are considered re
markable and naval men are inclined
to doubt the accuracy of the reports.
WON'T ACCEPT AMENDMENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
JEFFERSON CITY. Mo:. Sept. 20.
Secretary of State Cornelius Roach
declined tonight to accept the pro
posed prohibition amendment to the
constitution of tiie state of Missouri.
The secretary declares the proposed
legislation violates the federal con
stitution. Thero is time for petin
tioners to test the matter in court.
the tribe, thus prolonging the cam
paign. For this reason any male
Yaquis over 12 years old, found with
out such passports after October first,
will be considered public enemies and
outside the protection of the la-w. Such
Indians must be arrested and turned
over to the nearest military official to
be dealt with.
Beginning with October first, any
employer or official who fails to com
ply with the provisions of the decree
by not reporting Yaquis in his employ,
will be considered as lending aid to
the tribe and severely punished, the
decree says.
T
T
, v
