IHES I DENT'S OFFICE
HEI? EA COLLEGE
ISSUE A KY
C.UMP
The
ifLZEN
LZXB.A FUZLCH-iG CO.
lnrMtrnumi
WM. O. fWMT, i.CWrf
Knowledge is power and the
way to keep up with modern
knowledge is to read rood
newspaper.
cmnmmnca,
r. O. BOWMAN.
Pivoted to ttie Intereato of tlie IM!oiiitQn Pooplo
To). XVIIL
Five Cents a Copy.
RP.REA, MADISON COUNTY. KENTUCKY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1018.
On Dollar ft Tear
No. 12.
Congress Submits to a " Bulldoze"
Certain organizations of railroad employees threat
ened to strike, and under this threat Congress has passed
law that they shall be paid, after January 1st, a ten
hour wage for an eight-hour day.
Now we believe in an eight-hour day, but we do not
believe in giving it to these strikers. In the first place
they are already more highly paid than any other labor
ing men in the world and this extra pay will have to
come from other working men who are much more
needy than they; and in the second place we do not
believe that Congress ought to pass any law under a
threat. President Wilson has been an excellent chief
) magistrate in many ways, but his consent to this piece
of Figh-handed robbery on the part of an organized set
of bulldozers, the country now and history in the future
will condemn.
Dope Doctors
We talked the other day with a man who is known
as a drunkard. His children are neglected, his work is
uneven, his kinspeople are disgraced; and he began to
drink because liquor was prescribed to him by a doctor!
Any doctor who will prescrile liquor ought himself to
be condemned. It is well known by all the medical
schools that there are other things which will do all the
good intoxicating liquors have ever been supposed to
do, quicker and better. Any doctor today who prescribes
intoxicating liquors is either a knave or a man who does
not understand his business.
Children of the Mountains
By Mr. W. C Scale, Principal at the Clay City School
"Daly and To-day are ours. Tatar
and Basalts belong to Cod" The
National idea of education is to up
lift, and Ood is pointing us to tho
mountains let us go up and take
possession of the people by helping
them get an edccalion.
Day by day man is pushing
deeper and deeper into this
storehouse for material things
where with lavish hand God
has piled for His children
untold and still 'Jiidisrovered
treasures of the forest, in mines and
queries, fruit and flowers. Are not
, men and women, hoys and girls
more valuable than the material
things for which men are daily
striving? Should we not pay more
attention to the intellectual up
building of these our mountain peo
ple? Here we find the moot in
teresting example of retarded civil
isation. Closed in from -the throb
bing, restless world, by the granite
ribbed backbone stretching through
seven states, here with only an oc
casional road anywhere other than
a creek bed, with unhridged stream,
living in isolated districts, unsought
and. consequently deprived of what
is to us, the most esscutial elements
of progression, and education. These
Mople lack only the quickening of
thought and an awakening of the
ambition which Comes through
learning.
When James Stuart, only son of
Mary, (Jucen of Scolts, came to the
throne, two countries were united
under one sovereign. eBch retained
its own parliament, its own church,
and its own laws. The Monarch
was ruler over these kingdoms. In
trio? James imported a number of
Scotch Highlanders into t'lster
Province, Ireland, to punish the
Irish. Later he misused and per
secuted these immigrants so they
r-igratetl to America. Most of.
- ... .uniu l. lh k ....u1 Mi.tun fc-nl In wtf
-""' r "ri1"' ...(
toward the southwest others, in-
CONTENTS
PAGE 1. Editorials: (ngress Sub
mits to a Kulldor.e; I)ope IKic
tors. Children of the Moun
tains. PAGE 3. Departmental Columns.
PAGE S. Serial: fThcn If II Come
Hack to You-That Sunday
Pinner Fetish. A Kugenic Mar
riage Proiosal.
PAGE 4. Locals.
PAGE I. Local News Articles.
PAGE 6. Mountain Agriculture:
The State Fair; He re a orn Show
and Fair; Farmers' Chautauqua;
Kentucky Pure Seed Law; Com
minify C.lubs. Cincinnati Mar
kef -Home Department; What
S ' Vat t U Do for You Pe
tliiii' of Merchant Marine. Pa
thetic Chapter in History of
U. 8.
PAGE T. International Sunday
School Lesson. For Younif
Folks. Our Horder Nurse.
(h'liis in Yrse.
PAGE I. Ya1 KentuoLy News Let
- ters Pimiii: The Dixlie Higli
w ay. National Pork Highway
Opened.
eluding F.nglish and Germans, en-
tered Virginia and Carol in as. The
Scotch held themslves to the high
lands with its luxuriant beauty
Tlii uaa comfort tn them in
their longing for Scotland. To-day
mi rout
1. ,,!.(:. nn l.lrwrwt flnwi
through the veins of the mountain
w.r.la Tliura la nowtiora tn h
found a finer type of loyal, aturdy, I In a few days, it is reported, work ' Strikes Machine Containing Three
God-fearing citizens. will begin on a test well in the Women and Chauffour.
The Stale has struggled against neighborhood of the mouth of Red Erie, Pa., Sept. IS. Four persons
manifold diftlrulties in it effort to, River where quite a number of were killed at North Springfield, els hi
raise the standard of excellence in leases are held by H. R. Odenkirk, ' w?
U.e schools. Owing to the lack of of Wooster O. who is a well known J ZSEi
funds. Ihe country districts have operator. Prospects are that it will tn Mri pcy geager, Mrs.
suffered, more especially the moun- he a paying field. The Held expert, i R Bhlpman, Miss Shlpman and the
tain regions. jAtr. Kshelman, is optimistic and coined chauffeur, all of Pittsburg.
Many have been penellted by tho stated that oil would most certainly The party was returning to Pltts
Citpitalists' who have gone into the he found in paying quantities. If burg from this city when the accident
miuintaina am I PHfaMixhml schools the 11. 'Id i.roves to be what it is ex- occurred. The three women were
in their mining ramps for the bene- 'ported, Winchester will become the
tit of the children of their em-, center of the biggest oil develop
plnyees and have given the child-' ments in the Stale,
ren of the district the privilege of, Ci,y County's First Railroad
coining to school. In most camps. m September 12th at 1 p.m. Clav
they have nine months school by County celebrated an event that
joining tneir interests w iiu me marks a new era in her history and Littleton or Chattanooga and a re
county. development. For a long time the aponse by Grand Sire J. B. A. Robert
There are thirty-nine persons to railroad enterprise has been looked OB of Ok'homa City featured the
(he square mile in the montains. the ,, by mmf. itt the more pessimis-. P"llnf "
population being XMflM. The Uc aH a faihire. ,,ut olthe abov. of "'pff
density of ihe population is greater ,ial ln(, rst iron nonM, 0f Clay , . -.v. , ,h. ,917 mtin "
iii joe iin'inimiii imwi in biij
other part of the State. This
will come as a surprise to many,
The home mission boards are work-
:.. II II... :
lug nobly lor the people; lliey are
sending Christian men and women
to teach in the school and many
proress railh in God under tneir
helpful influence.
lu order that Htirbauk might con-
'nine his work in the plant lire tne
'.aniegie institution is sunsmizeu to , lnrKaKe on the property, the
he amount of $10,000 yearly for rn,pttny having defaulted in inter
'II years. This amount would pay Pt payments. The holdings of the
the tuition of 1.IHI0 boys and girls company were large, both in Bell
for one year, ihe average annual
tuition is about $11.00 per month
1 1 , mai-I. aliulmif IVurv aphiiil in
rOnilinued on Page Kive.l
Only 119,773 pointa remaining,
There is yet an opportunity for
a s a. la :il a l
more coulestauls. it will not be
long till you will see the winner
sporting an Overland. Then you
will wish you bad taken a chance
i n it.
day, near Waco. The Rev. Mr.Trib-
There is nothing like s friend who ble left a large number of children,
avs you attention at regular in- one of whom was Samuel Tribble,
!"-val and. gives you help. The who was the father of Judge M. L.
Citixen is no exception. Your do-.Tribble, of Fayette County. Samuel
'ir does not nearly pay its expenses hud seven sons and live daughters;
hut is only an invitation to come to but comparatively few of his de
you. When you send In your iuvi-,scendants bear the Tribble name,
tation always enclose the necessary I The family has had reprcseuta
dollar. i lives in every American war since
(and including the Revolution. The
When an automobile contestant Rpv- A- J Tribble of Richmond is Miami. Tla. Four bandits, who rob
suggests to you that vou should wn of ' the family now bed tho State Bank ot Homestead,
subscribe for The Cituen, reuiem-
hvr that one ood turn deserve. I
other. You are helping them, and'
in turn yon are getting one of the
best weekly papers in the Stale.
Tim at la an . alia r,. .tit I,.'
advertise if you want results. You
'i nn.t . h..i... -r...
- " ....... Iliruillllj IIIHII ll
Citizen, so say our best advertisers. I
III OUR 01711 STATE
The Federal Farm Loan Hoard will
meet in Louisville to hear the claims
of Louisville and adjoining cltiea for
a farm loan bank September 24.
A toll gate pike in Trimble County
has been donated by IU owners and
the toll gales have been abolished.
Two other companies owning roads
are contemplating similar action.
More than 3.000 hogs in Kentucky
have been submitted to a treatment
with globulin against cholera with
the result that the superiority of
the rellned serum over the unrefined
has been demonstrated.
With the aid of county authorities,
(lay County has been provided with
a forest-fire lookout station, the first
of its kind established by the Slate
, , '
Forestry Department
Hundreds of Confederate soldiers,
Daughters of the Confederacy and
olhers paid a last tribute to Gen.
Basil W. Ihike. whose funeral was
held in Lexington Monday. The ser
vices were simple.
Local Oil Corporation
, , . , . .
Urgely made up of Irvine men, a
new corporation was organued,
styled The Industrial Petroleum Co,. eara w ,,,,, by th- R,T samuei 1
capitalized at $100,0(10 with offices g. Marquis, head of the Ford educa
in Irvine. j tlonol department
The officers elected are: D. A. Speaking at a conference of bust
Wallace, president, merchant; Judge tees men here, be ssld a fund original
Hugh Riddle, vice-president, attor-lT bad beea created for tbe us of
ney: W. P. Williams, treasurer,1 cripples tn the families of the em
banker; Max Ruby, secretary, oil Ploye. of the concern. Beam of to
. ....... t i a o.. ! limitations, however, another fund
operator of Marietta, O ; David Ru-I fof fc- fM
by, general manager, oil operator of deTotK, l0 ctindrn. throughout the
Ohio and West Virginia; Dr. A. M.j country who need treatment and have ;
Steinburg, local optician and N. Le-
VV. lOCai IWn illllL Willi llllltris
named, complete the directorate.
' Clark Conntr Oil PrOsDOCtS
.. . . ...... . ..
county entered at the Knox-t.iay line,
t j a rPality that can both be seen
and heard. Hurrah for Clay County I
ttt Jellico Mining Interest Sold
The Ilell Circuit Court at its last
meeting sold the Fast Jellico Coal
Cit c xinsley. Hell County, to M. F.
whitehill. of Clarion, Pa, for tho
' tyim of fue,(iK. This was the out-
e,m wf a sujl brought by the bond
j,.r f the company to foreclose
aIul Kl,x counties, and the mine
equipments are the best in the roun
i . . . . . ,rt....
iy, ii in reponeu tnai Mr. vvnue
bill has already leased the property
to D. H. Logan, of Pineville, who is
.nixlng , company to operate the
properties.
Tho Triable Family Reunion
The descendants of the Rev. An
drew Tribhle, a pioneer Haptist
preacher, who came to Kentucky in
1776, hold's family reunion, Satur-
rry County's Moonlight School ,
M'M r Adams, superinten-l
Uont r M" County achmils. was
I visitor at the Perry County Insti-
Jtute in behalf of the moonlight
schools. Her address was interest-
in '"' " "'- the great
" "J "l'ining the work of the
(Continued on Pago Eight)
U. S. HEVS
Seth Ixiw, publicist and former
Mayor of New York, died at his sum
mer home at Bedford Hills, N. Y.
after a long illness. He was presi
dent of Columbia University for
eleven years.
President Wilson will make his
first speech of the campaign at Shad
ow Lawn Saturday to the business
men of New Jersey. He will discuss
the provisions of the eight-hour rail
road law.
After a conference of union labor
leaders in New York Monday it was
said as a result of Mayor Mitchel's
inability to provide a basis of settle
ment of the traction strike a call
would be issued today of 700,0(10
, ' ..
workers on a sympathetic strike,
FOR , CRIPPLED
CHILDREN
Unlimited
Sum la Set Aside by the
Cord Company.
Wellealey, Mass., Sept II. An
nouncement that aa unlimited sum ot
i money las been set aside by the Ford
' Moto,r of.
voted to the treatment of crippled
, hOBt th, a-,..
, . -MMi n. -,,,,.- . .lirhlw.i
BOt tho means to pay for it
TRAIN KILLS FOUR IN AUTO
killed Instantly and the
lived only Ave minutes.
chauffeur
Grand Ledge of I. O. O. F. Opens.
Chattanooga. Tenn, 8ept 19. Ad
dresses of welcome by Governor Tom
C. Rye of Tennessee and Mayor J. N.
I - - ....
STARTS A RUN ON STATE BANK.
Chicago. Russians and Poles In
Chicago's West Side foreign quarters.
panic-stricken by failure of several
private banks. Jammed snd fought
their wsy into a stale bank in that
district and create a run on the in
stitution. The bsnk was that or Schiff
A Co.. which has more than I2.S00.0U0
in deposits snd is believed to be ab
solutely solvent. Banks In the West
Fide foreign quarters sre opened here
for a few hours on Sundays. When tue
Schiff bsnk opened a crowd of de
positors entered snd begsn withdrsw
Ing funds.
TROOP SHIP DESTROYED BY FIRE
Douglas, Arts. News has JuBt been
received here ot the destruction by
fire of a steamer carrying Carranxa
troops from Mansanlllo- to Cuaymas.
Two hundred lives were lost. Jose
Dieges, brother of General M. M. 1 J lo
ses, who was on the steamer on a spe
cial mUaira from Carranxa to the So
noro officials, escsped, swimming
ashore naked. The lire Is believed to
have been of Incendiary origin, legal
ists being suspected.
SIR CAVENDISH BOYLE DEAD.
London. Sir Cavendish Boyle, who
was governor of Newfoundland 191)1
1U. died here.
MEMBERS OF POSSE ARE KILLED.
iTL'.FVl
! ?ri,??e".?0" ot h.,r? M
killed two men and wounded two
others. After tho encounter they
vero trailed into a dense swamp, where
It was believed they had been sur
rounded. The men killed wore C. Aa
dsrsoa and Alien Anderson. The
posse was 11 rod upon without warning
and tho bandits are believed to have.
Bod uawoundod.
GEN. ALBERT L MILLS
Chief f MIIKIa Affaire
Division U. a. A. Is Dsad.
Photo T Americas Praoo AaooctoUoa.
Wtshington, Sept 19. Major -General
Albert U Mills, chief of the divi
sion of militia affairs, died at bis homo
here of pneumonia after fifteen hours'
Illness. Before becoming head of the
militia division he was president of
the war college and superintendent of
tho military academy. He worked out
tho mobilisation plans for the state
troops which operated successfully
during Uio Mexican border situation.
.!
VILLA AIDED
BY CITIZENS
Chihuahua City Residents Un
der Arrest.
MARTIAL LAW IS DECLARED
. I
Villa Cavalrymen Ride Horses to the 1
Second Floor of Palace In Pursuit
of Carranza Guards Salazar, Noted
Loader, Killed In Battle. j
EI Paso, Tex., Sept. 19. Numbers
Of residents ot Chihuahua. Cltv. Uex-
' ico, have been arrested and charged I
with complicity in Villa's stuck on
the town, according to a delayed re
port received here, and martial law
baa been declared throughout the
stats. '
This action followed the discovery
that during the attack a number of
residents, among them amnestied
revolutionists, had been snipping from
their window!,' while others had given
Information to the bandits. General
Jacinto Trevlno also Issued orders
that any person other than soldiers
found'on the streets after 10 o'clock
at night be shot.
A small band of Vllllstas made an
"Hidalgo day" attack on Guerrero,
eighty miles west of Chihuahua City,
but was repulsed and fell back across
the line or the Mexican Northwestern
railway toward the foothills ot the
continental divide, pillaging Isolated
ranches as It went, according to
private advices here.
Recent reports received here have
asserted that American cavalry scout
ing patrols hsve been operating be
tween Guerrero and Namiqulpa. The
patrols were sent south from El Valle,
the southernmost American base, in
response to reports that Villa himself
was lesdlng the bandit band In that
vicinity. Mexican authorities at
Juares said wire communication was
faulty and no reports of aa engage
ment at Guerrero bad been received.
A detachment of twenty Villa cav
alrymen engaged Carransa Infantry
men on the second floor of tbe state
palace, according to additional details
of the attack upon Chihuahua City, re
ceived hero by Andreas Garcia. Mexi
can consul.
The bandits rode their horses Into
tbe building and up the stone steps
to tbe second floor In pursuit of the
government gusrd, which fell bsck
before them. Do facto marksmen
picked off six of the mounted bandits
as they rode into one of tho rooms,
tho remainder making their escape.
The congular dlsnstches added that
Jose Ines Balaxsr. one of the moot no
torious of the Mexican leaders, wss
killed In tho engagement following kis
liberation from tbe penitentiary. Bala
sar, contrary to earlier reports. Is sow
said to have beea killed lighting with
the government troops, his former
Jailers.
i
WORLD HEWS
The offensive movement of the Al
lies still continues. The reports are
somewhat conflicting but gains are
being made by F.nglish, French, Rus
sians, and Italians. Germany is try
ing very hard to strike a derisive
blow against Roumania but has fail
ed to succeed.
The son of English Premier As
quith is reported lobe killed in the
military operations in the region
of the Somme river. War is no re
specter of persons and death comet
to those of high station as well as
low.
Count von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador to the United Stales,
has just returned to this country.
He has struggled hard to prevent a
break between Germany and the
United States and has grown to look
much older under the stress and
worry.
Japan denies the report that her
demands on China would destroy
the sovereignty of that country, ac
cording to the report of our ambas
sador to that country. The Root
Takahira agreement between the
United States and Japan guarantees
the equity of China and requires no
tice of any step toward a change.
A British torpedo boat, during the
week, stopped an American Philip
pine steamer inside the territorial
waters. Search was made for a cer
tain man supposed to be on board.
Our State Department is to make a
protest against patrolling squad
rons in and near territorial waters.
Villa is reported to be on the scene
of action again. With a large fol
' lowing an attack was made on Chi
1 huahua. This serves to arouse once
more the anti-Caranza element in
Mexico.
j President Wilson received person
ally the delegates from Mexico to
the Joint Commission Meeting in
, the United States. I He expressed
sympathy for the effort being made
! in Mexico to create a higher type
;of republic, and the Mexican Minis
It' r of Finance in reply said that his
country was slowly struggling to
ward tho light
FREIICII TROOPS
TAKE FIORINA
Bulgars Retreat In Disorder
Toward Monastir.
GAINS ALSO ON SOMME FRONT
i Capture Another Group of German
1 Trenches In. West Delnlecourt la
Completely Encircle Lively Fight
ing en Verdun and Champagne, , j
1 London, Sept. 19. The Important
town of Fiorina tn northwestern Mace
donia haa been raptured by the
French, according to' tbe announce
ment from tbe Paris war office, and
the Bulgarians aro said to be retreat
ing la disorder in the direction ot
1 Monastir. A similar report, coming
from Athens, asserts that the Franco
Serbian forces have surrounded the
Bulgarians In northwestern Mace
donia, and that the Bulgarians are fall
ing back precipitately on Monastir.
South of Comblee, on the Somme
front, the French have carried an
other group of German trenches, ac
cording to the official statement front
the war office. Desperate lighting con
tinues around Denlecourt. while ac
tions both Jn tbe Champagne district
and on tho Verdun front, where the
French captured a trench on Dead
Man Hill are recorded.
According to the Paris war office
the Servian troops" have gained sue
cesses la the region of Lake Oe
trovo. "Bast of Cerna Servian troops have
reached tho approaches to ML Vetri
alk and repulsed violent Bulgarian at
tacks," aays the statement
"Farther west. Servian detachments
continue to advance despite the dim
eulty of the ground and have, with a
single rush, carried along the crest of
Kalmakoalaa, the first Bulgarian line,
which was strongly orgsnlsed and de
fended by numerous wire entangle
ments. Counter attacks launched dur
ing the night were repulsed com
pletely. "Nortbwestof Ike Ostrovo Servian
Continued on pttTTita.1 "
'v
