Aft it
So1 x,
- ... r T A'llI
BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, .SEPTEMBER 21, 191(5.
NUMBER 12.
TONS' COUNItH
lAUKbHtKULbLU
ans Make Unavailing At
cmpts (o Regain Lost
Ground.
ii it lacks In (.iilioia llciilcn Off
in in nn I n n licet Serious Itc-
loise In Trnusj ImiiiIii.
ic
ii
In
V
. Ii Ir
l0 I
. f tin' I
Hi of
l!.' fill II
lull
after . It u!
1 llll U III 1 til'
I ho erd of
Inn were 1 1'
ing to I nil , and
IlltS W.'IS HiVoicil
lii nn effort to re
t ri i territory, the
lo illc Iiiii) weather,
i i I:h against the
i i.r-iniiu fiont In the
i ,:i -in mil Roiiohaves-
r Si.- nn.
the Teutons tluew
a' nil? tin' llii-' from
lllni'llllll; 1 1 1 1 1 1 (KII'U.
the il.iy tin" French
kIiiir their positions,
tho bnltletleld
with German
HUGHES' ATTITUDE
TOWARD AMERICAN
RIGHTS DEFINED
Candidate Calls Shipping' Bill a Menace Federal
Reserve Act Not a Democratic Measure
Compensation Act Should Protect Others
Than Federal Employes Democrats Won
derful Phrase Makers.
Milwaukee, Wis., Sept. 20. Charles Hip must
I J. Illtgllos, before ;i olleorllirr n ml iolioe I 'cool d."
thiil filled tlio IiIr; niiilltoi'ium heie to-
night, oulllneil his attitude townnl (lie '
wonderful phrase maker? on
The federal reserve net, the nominee
wild, far from being n democratic inc.is
tire, num ii in I Minnie, was niton In
protection of American rights -is fol- jnront part from mnlerlnl supplied by a
'own: republican commission nml a draft of
"I pioposo that wo Hhnll protect and a repnlillriin bin.
enforce American rights on land and ! "Whatever salvation
Gentian dlil 'ii'iiotiale the nnrin
U't of 'I e I me "f lioiiohavosnos,
t.ii 1 r hi ti inei thiitn with the
I ami lb i-iilyed Ihem. I' our !!!-
ii tin I'm fin in in which the
ns innie I" n were rcpuisco
Fieio whilst nbsoi vers asset t
he i. nn i.s .11 l.-t-t wlthdiew in
ir tug m.in de.id.
the I'rlt Ml fifiit the weather still
tint i'ppo nig sides to aitillery
Ii i i iii Ihi.itre III Russia and
,i In th Merlin and Vienna leport
I ilt f Ii. ii. Itusslan attacks
l.i.i i, e. mr of Volhyiila and
t i f l.t i Ik rp. m .allcl.i. Local
ft t ' e K'ls-I.uis in the ('in -
. rill d by the Teutons,
i th.it on the whole
a . s wel e 1 epulseil.
hole tin' IlouiiiiiliiiiiiM
Me nstio-ll.mguiians,
i i ii , havi' met with
In et-inlis of Hntzog
.f i n en 1 nek by tho
ti e Ti.iusylvniitaii Alps
I V r . f nv and the Shut
it, mi hi they enteti'd
i i i cgum, 1 eeaptui c 1
S il I '
- I I 1 W I
1
.t'l K'l'
, .1 r i
ri i
l In '.
l
! ir
Kit '
.11
i i lite the Russians and
h i i i t ii heavilt lelnfor e.l
i fi of the ronslan. raii
t i I l.n k sen lo the Danube,
i c Utle is Hucluulilig.
ir"' i nGTr a t? v.
500,000, SAYS liERLIN
PajMlIo, Kept,
losses in the
reached nbout
Ncvvs Asency
lo Dull'.
ia wlrt !ef s to
i i .mi aim i ipiii'ii
i f tiie Soirnie havo
I ipn t e (J crseas
1 1
Neivs AKe.nty says the British
al te t i make their advance only
Kce'ns of the most despeiate f-
.ind .'0 I "The result of the battle
.on in Li lid be Kauueil by con-
utn 'ii' iini' ii' iii ri'iuii .inn i.i-i-
ci it r' oi icd bv the l.ermans.
tin iiitts pi ,il lo about fitj.niil
e In 'i in. ters The efforts made by
r"lsl e li - llt. d in the le-
tl'ier per cent The price paid for
trrr t u is apptilluiK. 1 ho lintlsh
'ii. in men ti to Ktiitrmber 1Y This,
p' with the Kreii' h los-es, In mm
i total to about half million men.
sen unrmicliiiiKly with respect to
Ameiican lives, American pioperty and
Ami'tlcan comnieice. 'e have no un
stated policies, no secret uiiilevstaiid
Iiiks. no IntrlKiies. Wo stand four
squared to the world, represeiitliit!- the
irnlted States and ItH Interest alone."
.Mr. IIukIics lnudc reply to what be
termed democratic claims fur having
aided business, and outlined the le
publican pronrnin. In Vio dolne, he
dealt chiefly with subjects discussed
In President Wilson' speech of acceptance.
I he shipping bill was characterised
thus far
foiesli;lit
from panic we
was
of
due
the
to the en-Itopubllcati
"A menace,
better. I be Underwood tariff lie called
a measiiie "that must be undone If we
are to have u sure basis of prospei Ity
In this country." lie reiterated that the
anti-trust law, instead of beliiK chinned
by ilellnition, had been made "more un
lertnin." "I must say," he declared, referrim; to
the Demoi ratlr party, "after havliiK leadinient
seveial of their statutes, that they are 1 mi; "
have hud
llllhteued
party."
Mr. Hughes said in coniiecti.,n with trie
estenslon of the Ablrlib act durltiK the
threatened tlnanclal depiesslon In tho
early days of the Uiuopcan war.
The child labor law, Mr. Ilunhes slid,
failed to protect hundieds of thousand'"
of children at work In various States un
der democratic administrations.
The federnl workmen's compensation
law, the nominee lelterated should henined
to protect other than the federal employes
ns! under ltK scope. It should extend to all
the Bonner lemoved the peisons eiiMnKed In pursuits of luterst ite
I In outlining republican policies Mr
I I Indies said be stood for protection of
I Ameiican rights, n protective tariff, for
!tt, rii'liipltile nf n rhl I r.n I inn of 1 nil list 1 1.1 1
disputes, the protection of labor, national
resources and the "national treasury," for
elllclency in covern and for "a Kovern-
lccnrdim,' to the process of reas in-
WILSON BELIEVES HE
HAS THE MOOSE VOTE
U. S.
MANUFACTURERS
APPEAL TO LANSING
CiiiiKriltlilntrN William l- McCoiiiIih nml
.IihIkc efibiir.
Long M.iancli, X. .1. Sept. SO. Victory
for tho democratic ticket In New York
State In the November election was
picdlcted by President Wilson to-niKht
aftel the receipt of returns from yes
terday's primaries. The President in
dicated liis belief that ii OKressives In
New Vol k will support the demoiiats.
Taking bis first nclle pait in the
rampalKii. Mr, Wilson sent telegrams
democi atie. nominee for tho U. S. Son
ate, and to .ludge Samuel Seabury,
of congratulation to Win. K. McCombs,
iiomlnoc for governor.
The message to Mi. McCombs rend:
"I congintulatc you most warmly on
your nomination by the democrats of
New Voik for the United States Sen
ate. A united body nf progressive vot
ers will be behind you."
The message to Judge Senbury said!
"Your nomination by the democrats
I rges t.m eminent to licet ('omlltloii
rising from .Inpnn'N Action.
New York, Sept. 2'1.- The American Man
ufacturers' Kport association, coinpri.-i
lug more tlinn .vi leading manufacturing
exporters in the country made public here
to-day a letter to liohert Lansing, secro
tar of state, inglng the United States
government to take stps "to meet the
conditions arising ft inn the fresh lo
ma mis nf.Iapnn upon Chlnn."
i "The hlstnrv of .Inpanese activities In
I Manchuria." the letter snys, "Is the hls
i tnry of the almost complete loss of A"ii
1 lean trade, not a little of which was fm
I nierly enjoyed by the members nf this n..
I sin t Inn. Sluiiilil the present demands be
j granted by flilnn, what little business is
now done by American with the Chinese
will be cut off or reduced further."
The association points out that the
government In Maich, lf13, withdrew
Its support fiom American bankers,
then negotiating with other powers n
loan lo China, on the ground of the
BRITISH APOLOGY
FOR CEBU INCIDENT
Regrets Are Expressed for Hold
ing Up the Philippine
Steamer.
HEAVY FOG TO RLAME.
DrNi ii rr I 'oininnmliT Win .Nt
Aunrp 'I'll Ml Hi Vcmcl AViin So
nrnr Mi ore, II Ii SnM.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.; i
NEWS BY COUNTIESl
DYNAMITE PLO
TI
MIDDLECURY.
Washington, Sept. CO. fit eat Itrltniu
to-dny fniinnlly expressed to the Uni
ted Stntes r'gret for the nctlon of a
rttltMi desl royer In holding up mid
cMinilnlng the Philippitu' steamer Cebii
within the territorial waters of the
Philippines. Itecause of a heavy fog,
it was explained the destroyer's com
mander did not know the vessel was
so nenr sboie.
In the absence of Ambassador Sprlng
Ulce Colvllle Marclay, counsellor of
the lirltish rtubissy, called lit the state
department at the request of l'oielgn
Secretary (!rey and presented the ex
planation and expression of regret.
Department olllclals said later the in
tldi lit was ic jni ded af closed.
The Conn was honided and examined
a mile and a null off the Island of I'ar
nlmii recently. In the explanation pie
sented to-dny the llrltisli guvd ninent
declnted thn' 'when the Cebu was
boarded the land was hidden, but as
soon as the t.eatl.er clcaied and it was
found that the shit was within terri
torial waters the boarding olllcers weie
lecalled and the passenger list wits ex
amined, but the chip was not seatclied."
London, Sept. iyi. The holding up of tho
Philippine steamer Cebu Is believed hero
to have requited from efforts of Ilritish
warships to capture a (ionium reservist
coiiiu'.'ted with a Junta in Manila. Tho
IPsenlst is said to ! one of a band of
Ocrmans and Indians, making their
headquarters In Manila for the purpose
of sending guns to India and encouraging
a revolution there.
In official circles here it is stated that
Manila Is the chief center of these
activities, but that Important branches
also exist In the United States. The
lirltish government. It is said, has made
representations to Wahinton on tho
sublect The organization, according to
statements, is subsidized heavily by Her
nia ns.
of New York for the governorship of I Impairment of Chinese sovereignty and
the State gratifies me very deeply, ns it 'adds:
must gratify all friends of progressive j "TllP present situation, thieatenlng
government. I warmly congratulate 1 tho rln' ,,r China to Independent ac-
ind predict a decisive victorv In!""" J"suiics, in our opinion, measures
you
November.'
WILSON WILL DEFEND
EIGHT-HOUR LAW
i at least eoiiallv
' referred to above.
is effective as those
NATIONAL RESEARCH
COUNCIL ORGANIZES
RESTED ON SUSPICION
Ulll ..ll.k tlf lt....llllll-...l t.nl
iirilny Night.
in iiifi.iii s' iit up. lir.flrr i i
of Winds, r utility arrived here
afti I'lioon iii ii I'iiut with Frank
it hit. tin officii' is cutis ini I'll, is
llll direr ol William ( ostello whose
whs found Saturday night at the
out Soldiers' Hume ciossing with
' lulbt wounds In the back of the
igle nntiiiTu lo be .'lenient. il Ite
si rved a ti nn In the State prison
miiKor wns itiroieo hvi veil is ncro
has since been living with his fath-
d from home last week and when
c turned v sti rday told his father
he had shot a man In Henulngton.
to older Hogln untitled tile officer
the son' arrest followed early this
uing On the way to Ilcnnlngton
in Searsliurg and Wilmington Moii-
the former town he is reported to
had nn argument with Charles
is nun in ii.ie in aw n a caiiurc.
officers report that Itogle Ins
Itted bo was in Ronninirtnn Rntnr.
but says that he was ton drunk to
ember what happened while, hero.
l.oiig Itranch, N. J., Sept. 10. 1 1 was
indicated to-night that continued lefer-
eitce by Charles K. Hughes, the reptilill-I
in nominee, to the settlement by the
lesldeiit of tin; locently threatened rail-!
road strike, has led ulr. Wilson to deter
mine to devote much nf bis attention In
his forthcoming speeches to this subject.
President Wilson also plans to attack
the republicans for bringing sectionalism
into tiie campaign, officials say. This at- j
tack will be based on the lefercnco nf 1
republican speakers to the number of
oinmittee cliairnienshlps in Cnngress
held by southern henatnis and represcnta-.
tlves.
t i : v i n.ii i.ii ..
PROFITS BY WAR
ns, fie pi, :. mrx iiosciiuer. In an
:m in inu on in itj-iiitv. cnnir.isin
t to foreign countries with whnt !t
before tho war. The article snyHt
lion iiik i iint-o .Tinit-n was tcinimg in
opo from $3X1,000,000 to t300,0Jt,ijj in
rest on Its borrowings, JlW.00,0,000 to
000,000 scent by tourists, JIOO.000,000 to
000,000 to expatriates and $20,000,000 to
lorted $730,000,000 In gold and has
1 liack a considerable amount of Its
vloiis borrowings, Inoronsed its for-
trado by ?2,2!;0,000,000 yearly nml
so that tho dollar now has replaced
a considerable. extent tho old
crolgnty of the Kngllsh pound
Mill
Whether tho united mates will r-
wlth her deficient financial or
ilzation, tho position recently won
1 depend upon American financial
commercial policies. Tho arrival
Franco of an Amorlcaii commercial
tslon Is an Indication that Auier
is nro realizing they must follow
law In exchanged between countries
dun In general as much uh thoy
AMERICAN PEOPLE
ARE NOT THRIFTY
New Voik, Sept. 20-The national
lesearcli council, formed at the request
of President Wilson by the National
Acadcniv of Sciences to promote the
development of applied sciences In
strengthening national defense, or
ganized heie to-day. The council alms
to bring into co-operation existing gov
ernmental, educational, Industrial and
other lesearcli organizations and com
prises leading American Investigators
and engineers representing the aiiny,
navy, the .Smithsonian Insttltue, var
ious scientific bureaus of the govern
ment, educational institutions and re
search foundations anil the usearcb
laboratories of industrial and manu
facturing establish incuts.
onl
St.
lean
! Out of IJtery 1,000 Have Snv-
IngH Hunk Account.
l.ouls, -Mo., Sept. 20. The Amor
people rank last In tlirlftlness,
according to ,T. I.. Davis, vice-president
of the Kt. Louts Union Trust company,
who nddressed tho convention of tho
National Association of Life Under
writers hero to-day.
It is significant," ho said, "that in
tho United States, where wages are
necessarily high, only 99 pooplo out of
each 1,000 have savings accounts.
whereas in Australia there are 300, In
Kngland 302, In Germany 317, In France
340, In Iilelum 397 and In Switzerland
531."
John G, Jones, of the Alexander
Hamilton Institute, said that tho time
Is nearly passed when life Insurance
men nrn to be looked upon as nuisances.
He added:
The life insurance salesman who Is
Imbued with the right Ideals Is just
as important a man In Ills town ns tho
president of a savings bank. Anil such
salesman takes nn nctlve and perma
nent Interest In Ills clients nnd earns
their good will by his attention to their
Interests,"
HIT IJY TRAIN.
I.nren .11 j nit, 70, llns Hills I'rnftureil
Wheu Auto In Sninnhnl.
ICnosburg Falls, Sept. 20. Loren
Myott was badly injurod yesterday
morning, when his nuto was struck
by the 9:30 express train from Klch
ford at the crossing nenr the cream
ery, Some freight cars nn the siding
hid tho train from Mr. Myott's view as
he approached tho crossing from tho
north. When he did noo It he slowed
bin maelilno which was on the track
nnd wan struck near the middle and
the ear, a new one, wns badly wrecked.
Mr. Myott was thrown somo distance
and was leudcrt'd unconscious. After
being removed to his homo nearby an
examination by the physician showed
three ribs broken and bruises. Mi.
Myott Is nearly 70 years ot ago nnd
not strung, so tho shock Is a bovoio
i ono for him.
KING'S DAUGHTERS MEET
Hundred DpIikiiIik nt Annual Conten
tion In Itillllillil Clillteuilrn Co,
Hint Largest Delegation,
Rutland.. Sept. 20 The King's
Daughters' circles of Vermont sent
nearly n hundred delegates to the 23rd
annual State convention, the business
of which began this morning in thn
Congregational Church In this city. All
of thn counties were represented, Chit
tenden sending the largest delegation,
21.
Mrs. Martha Clark of Woodstock,
president of the Vermont branch, gave
her report to-day, stating that the
State has 1937 members In Til circles.
Three new circles were formed during
the last year, two In Caledonia county
and onn In Windsor county. Swanton
circle has the largest membership, 1,14.
TWO FILE EXPENSES.
Cimler nml Glllii-rl of M, A Mum Pnlil 7
nml y.',o.oo In I'rlniarlcN,
St. Albans, Sept ",0. The Hon Kills
V Foster of this 1 1 . republican eandl
date In the lecpnt pilnuirlcs for assistant
Judge of Franklin county court, and
Charles W. Gilbert, republican candidate
for sheriff, tiled statements of their caiu
pnlKii expenses to-day. Judge Foster's
expenses v.eie J7 and Mr Gilbert s were
jyi.r.o.
GOER'S PLURALITY
7,000 OjERBACON
Whitman Has Big Lead Over
Seabury in Progressive
Primaries.
New York, Sept 3t With returns miss
ing fiom about .".VI districts In the State,
most of them In remote rural section--,
William M. Calder had a lead to-night of
approximately 7,'"0 votes over Hubert Un
coil, bis rival for the nomination for Uni
ted .States senator hi tho republican pri
mary yesterday. Indications were that
the relative standing of the two candi
dates would nut be materially changed by
the complete returns.
Nearly 2i of the districts larking won
in Delaware. Fulton, Herkimer, Mont
gomery, Grange, Otsego, scnonarie, him,.
vnn and Washington counties where the
vote was comparatively light.
If Calder wins the nomination it wi'l
be because of his heavy vote In Gie.it r
New York, where complete returns gave
li 1 in r.l,SII as compared with 21, IIS for Un
ion. Mr. Ilncon declared to-night he would
nut concede bis defeat until Ibe Inst
vole was counted.
"This thing is going to be close," be
said, "and there won't be more tlinn
a thousand difference either way. We
are especially pleased with tho vote In
Monroe and Rensselaer counties, besides
the good showing made in New York
anil .some pnrts of Long Island, where
we weren't supposed to have a chance."
Iloth republican nnd democratic State
leaders professed to-night to be satis
fied with the sbnwlng of Gov. Charles
S. Whitman and Judge Samuel Sea
bury, their respective candidates for
governor In the progressive primary.
The vote for Whltmnn with l.Rfif. dis
tricts lacking was 10,lf,7 and for Sea
bury fi.SIS, Less than 40 per cent, of
the enrolled pi ogressl ves In the State
went to the pulls.
MAKE OFFICIAL CANVASS.
PHOF. F. P. SIIIIHMAN Di:AD.
New York. Sept. 2ii.-,Priifes--'or I'ran.t
Dempster Kinsman, head nf the do.
partment of graphics of the school of
arcbltectuio at Columbia University
since 1WH, Is dead. lie underwent
an operation for appendicitis I1" dayB
ago, He was Iifi years old.
Prof. Sherman was born In Peeks
kill, N. Y. lie was a noted genealogist,
lie spent many years compiling the
complete genealogy of the Slieiman
family and bis manuscript Is said to
bn the only pel feet record of the Sher
mans. Ilo was widely known, too. as
a poet.
If you can accomodate nuother boards.'
you can advertise profitably.
I'lnces Conlesteil on lli'iiulillinn 'I'lcUet
In Wlnilxnr County,
Hethel, Sept. The official cnuvnss
nf votes for contested plnces on the ip
piiblkan ticket in Windsor county gives
tho following result: Senator A. I.ee
i.'aily, Hethel, (nominated), l.Sls. Waltei
1. Kendall, West Windsor, (nominated),
1,741; C II. McClellan, Plymouth, l.Mt;
I.. B. Taylor, Sprlnglleld, (nominated),
1,757. Stale's attorney: . fl, Hlckuell,
Chester. l.Olii W. h. Plngree, llartfoid,
(nominated), 1.297; It. 1". Stevens, Hart
ford, ras. Sheriff: W. 1,. Fairbanks,
Sprlnglleld, lv3: Fled A. .eland, Chester,
397; James McDonald, l.iidliiw, 1.10J; S.
N. Taylor, Windsor. 17." . Fiigcne a.
Thomas, Woodstock, fi.;,; Paul C Tlnk
ham, oclicster, 019.
Has Rig Freshman Class.
Noltlllleld, Sept. 20.The prospects for
a successful collegiate year at Noiwlcli
University, Vermont's famous mllltaiy
college, whose piesldent Is (.'ol, ra ,,
eeves, commanding the First Vermont
Infantry, are very bright. Kluhty-scven
freshmen luivo nlieady legistered and It
Is reasonable In expect that mm,, men
will enter dining the mining ueek
Had No Expenses.
crgenites. Sept -'o -.Indite I'miik W.
Tuttle nml Dr. J. It. Powers, iiniuineoti
fur city representative, have illoil tliei,
expense net mints, which show t,.t
nioiiev wan Incurred and no promHOS
weio made to wjcuro their nomination.
I.eGrnild Gorham In obliged In uso
crutches bocauso nf the effects of stop
ping on a rusty nail, which penetrated
his light foot. Mrs. .Mary A. I.ang
wortby of Lancaster nnd Hinsdale, N
II., formerly Mrs. Myron It. Langwortby
of Mlildlebur.v , is In town on her annual
visit to friends, having come hern ill-
rectly from Ilitniplnn, N. V., whom alio j
has been visiting her brother, -I. !
Clark. Sbo will remain for nbout a week.
-News was leielved of tho birth
in Plttsford of a son to Mr. nnd
Mrs. Moses Winilitett of Mlddlobury.
Mrs. Wlininett's mother, Mrs. P. Ii.
Dillon, Is In Plttsford with her. Miss
Isabello Hiistol has none, to Honson,
where she Is the guest nt the home of
Mr. and Mrs. George Viiht.-Tho
Misses Lucy anil I'utli Grosvenor havu
gone to Fast Plttsford, where they will,
for two weeks, be guests ot Mr. and Mrs
II. Perkins
Friday night was to have been
neighbors' night at Mlddlehury Grange
nml the Addlsuu Ginnge was to have
been in attendance and given a pro
gram, but owing lo the storm they gave
up coming. Hut the local Grange was
on hand with a banquet, about 100 sit
ting down. During the evening n
subscription paper was started and
about .$100 lalsed toward tin- finishing
of the basement nf the Grnnge ball
into a dining-room and kitchen. It is
espected that the balance will soon bo
lalsed and work commenced. At the
annual meeting of the Father Daley
Council. K. of C, the following ofllcers
weie elected: Grand knight, P. J.
Hlncks; financial secretary, Necy
Dorian; deputy grand knight. F.. P.
Seymour; treasuier, I, c. Dillon; chan
cellor, D. 11. Mcllugh; advocate,
Jnines Hlncks; warden, John Pinney;
Inside gunrd, P. S, Muriny; outside
giinil, Chnrles Dorey; receiver, Robert
Shea: delegate to State convention, Ma
II Lal'Teur.-Miss Elizabeth Wilds, daugh
ter of the Into Chnrles M. Wilds, bus
recently announced her engagement to
rtobeil F. Penbody of Mnrbbiiend,
Mass., a Harvaid graduate, at piesent
III the steamship business In New York.
Mi. Peabotly Is the son of Itnbert S.
Penbody, formerly of Feabody &
Stenrns, the well known architects In
IJostou.
Mrs. Katherlne (Maronoy) Shambo.
wife of George II Shambo, died at Iter
home nn Shannon street Friday morning
of a complication of troubles, nt the age
of II yea is. She had boon in pour henlth
for some time, but wns taken seriously
111 a week ngo Wednesday and soon
afterward became uncoiipiious, in which
State she lemalned until the end. She H
survive I by her husband, George II.
Shambo, who Is a prominent merchant
of this village: nnd two daughters. Dnrl.
and Dolores, aod seven and nine years
n mother, Mrs. L. M. Cooney of Itittlnnd;
nnd three sisters, Mrs. .1 Gallagher of
Montreal. Mrs. Archie Stowait of Hut
land, and Miss May Marnney of nut
land. She was hoi n in Mlddlehury and
when a young girl she went to Rutland
to live and spent epilto n number nf
years She wns n member of St. Mury'.
Church of this village and was very at
tentive to her church duties.
Dennis Shea, who suffered a broken
neck, besides fracturing one wrist and
a rib, by accidentally falling from a
bouse mof on which be was at work
early Saturday afternoon, died at about
II o'clock Monday moining. Mr. Slie.i
leaves no Immediate relatives. He
wns the son of the Into Pntrick Shea
of Mlddlobury and had one biotber and
a man led sister, both of whom died
a number of years ago. The only io
latives are nephews and nieces In New
York city and Mlddlebury. Mr. Shea
wns never uiiiriled. For several years
he bad made his home with hN sister-in-law.
Mrs. Daniel Shea of High stieet,
at whose house he died. The funeral
was held at St. Mary's Catholic
Church Wednesday morning nt nine
o'clock, of which church he was a life
long member.
Mr. and Mrs James Dutell and daugh
ter Miss Mnigniet of Proctor an- here
to vis it f-lativi s.--Mr. nnd Mrs. Anib n
Slllllllloll of Clltlteaug.iy, N. Y., Hie" vis
iting In Mlddlehury and adjoining
towns. The mission to be given at St.
Mary's Church by the Dominican
l'nthers Foley and Itlley of New York
city will begin Sunday, October 1. and ,
continue tbiough a week. James L, I
Hall of Hiistol, a former jesbleiit of!
Mlddlebury, came Monday from Kssex.
N. Y where he has been visiting, and
will remain here nnd In this vicinity
for a week or ten days longer. Louis !
Dumas, who has been on a visit at 1
Crown Point and Tlconderoga, N. Y 1
has returned nnd Is visiting his son.
Henry Dumas. Monday, market day,
eggs brought 30 nnd 35 cents and but- 1
tor 30 to 32 cents.
Announcements have been received of
the marriage of Robert Alden Hoaly of i
Chesterlleld, Mass., and Miss Fnye Helle '
Ililtlei Held of New Haven at the home,
of the bride's parents, Mr. and Mrs. M,
T Iltitterfleld, Monday evening, Mr.
Hoaly Is a graduate of Mt. Hermon, class '
of 1911, and of the University of Ver
mont in 191.". He is now Ilradstreet's I
representative In New Hampshire. Mrs.
Hoaly was graduated from Mlddlehury I
high school In 1909, and Mlddlehury Col- 1
lege. ohisH of 1913, and taught In
Synodlcal College. Fulton, Mo., and for
two jears has been at the head nf thn
department of home making In the high
school at Sprlnglleld, Vt. The rorcmony 1
wns performed by President Thomas of J
Mlddlehury College In the presence of'
the Immediate families of th bride and
groonf. After a wedding trip Mr.
and Mrs. Hcaly will be at home to their
friends at 240 Sagamore street, Man-
Chester. N. II. A social was given Monday
night by the ladles of Circle No, fi. Ladles
nf the Grand Army, nt the home of Mrs
Carrie K. Nash In honor of Mrs, Mnry ,
A I.iingworthy. a visiting member of
Ibe circle Theio was a good attendance
of the ladles and members of William
P. Russell Post, No. i9. G. A. R. Ho.
freshiiients wete served and a most en
joyable evening spent with music. Mrs.
Laiigworthv started Tuesday morning on
her return to Hampton, N. Y., where she
ivill spend sumo time niih her brother,
I. It. Clark. Fred Fusselt, chef at the
Louiin House, litis ictnitied f i mil a two
weeks' vacation which In- spent visiting
In different parts of the Stale -Ml
Ada Pierce, who spent the summer nt
her home III tnwu, has leturncd In Sud
bury, where she has been re-engaged tn
loach school In Ibe North district for nn
other year. Joseph l- Hums of SpiitiK-
fio'd, 111., George M. Puekner of .F V M
uing nun I'-rana iiuiicau of i muni, ma
vlfltlng In town. Mr. and Mrs. lienjamlii
Hi. yes, who have been on a earrlnge
drive In Newfnne. have returned to town.
-Mrs. John II. Rums nnd daughter, Miss
Grace Ruins, have returned from Hut
llngton. Miss Isabello Canignn, who hns
been spending tho summer nt her homo
in I'lttsford, bus relumed and will ho
one of tho extra touchers In tile graded
school this year. Miss Mary Allen, who
hns been visiting at Ibe home of Dr.
mid Mis. V.. H. Martin for a week, has
leturncd to White River Junction. Tim
Addison County Ministers' nssoclntlon
held a well attended meeting at the
Congregational p.irsotiasn Tuesday morn
ing. A rrownmia Rebecca Lodge, No. 13,
O. O. I'., celebrated tho anniversary
V PR
fryttriO'7
HI STRIKE
Conspiracy to Wreck Two Broad
way Cars Unearthed by
Police.
RIOTING IS RESUMED.
Hope nr Averting Strike of 700,000
I nlon Workers llns Diminished
Neve Conference Tn-dny.
I
nl the foundation of the organization
In their moms In the Dyer block Tues
day evening. There was a good attend
UIM e.
The funeral of Dennis Shea, who died
early Monday morning from the ef
f i cts of a In oken neck, wrist, and rib,
Saturday, was held at St. Mary s Church
Wednesday ninrnlng nt nine o'clock,
Father Leonard officiating. Interment
was In the family t"t lu the Catholic
cemetery. There was -i large attend
ance and a profusion "f Mowers from
his many friends. The hearers were
Charles Homier, Patrick McMnhon, Pat
rick Dillon, James Smith. James Simon,
and Patilck Hnlpin. The Ladies' Mis
sionary society of the Meiunii.fl Rnp
tlnt Church held a well attended meet
ing at the parsonage Wednesday eve
ning. Mrs. F. C. Gnlley had charge of
the program. Refreshments were
served. Mrs. Wl'llam Farrell, who has
been visiting In St. Albans for a month,
will return home to-dnv.- Mr. nn.l Mrs.
William C. Collins and two children
have returned from Itrauilon, where
they have been spending u week.
('banning Green, who bus spent a few
months In the White Mountains, has
returned. F.arl Gorham, who has been
111, has so far recovered as to be able
to be about again.
Among tho people bore from out of
town arc Rovnl A. Hollos of Manchester.
Henry J- Clark of Springfield. Willis .'I.
Tiacy of Hiattlcboro. and John H. Larrn
hin of Hartford. -George H. Hall, who
hns been making a two weeks' visit .it
Fssev. N. Y., and lu Mlddlobury, has gci.F
to New Haven for a fnrthei visit previous
to his return to Hrlstol. Lewis Dumas,
who has been hero to visit the family of
his son, Henry Dumas, returned Wedner
day to Hrlilpiirt.-Mr. and M"s. Thomti'i
W. Wright of St Albans aie hero for two
weeks. -IMIss Clara Hiuya has gone lo
Vergennesh, where she bus secured a po
sition in the lion Ton millinery store.
Mr. and, Mrs Howard J. MncComber end
daughter. Miss Lucille MncComber, of
Now Haven. Conn., nro visiting In town
Mrs. l.mnn Moorhens nnd so 1 are visit
ing at the homo nf Mr and Mrs Guldeni
j:. Abbev. Dr. nnd Mrs S. II. Douglas
and Mrs. .Mark Flanders of Adams, N.
V . nro hi town to visit Mrs. Douglnss' fa
ther, George Hi oussenii.Tlie doctor and
his wife are on a tour thriitiRh the State .
,VERGENNES.
The remains of Mrs. Kllen R. McLaugh
lin, widow of Robert McLaughlin of th'n
city, who died Sept. 12 at the home if
her sister, Mrs. Henry Hitchcock at O--wcll,
from heart trouble, aged 73 year.'-,
weie In ought bore Thursday. Mrs. Mc
Laughlin was tho daughter of the hit;
Seymour Hayes of Vergennes where sbs
was born in imj. with tho exception or
the past few jt-niu, wbh b bhe has spent
with her sister in Fast Shoreham, sl.i
has always resided lu this town. Reside
lior sister, Mrs. Hitchcock bhe leaves oiu
hiother, Kdward Hayes ot Go.sbon. Tin
funeral services wore held at the hou
and burial was mad" in Prospect eem.
tery, the Rv. William Laughtcn olllclat
Ing at the giave. The bearers were four
nepbows, Chailos, Allen and Willi, im
Hitchcock of Orwell, and Robeit Hayes
of Goshen. Those present from nwv.v
wero: .Mrs. Henry Hitchcock, Mrs. Wl'
llam Hitchcock, Mrs. Allen Hitchcock an 1
Mrs. Lottie Harvov of OrweU, Mr. and
Mrs. Kdward S, Haes and suns, Ma.t
and Wlllard of Goshen,
Mis. J. A. Harrington, who left hero
about a month ago, nnd who has been
visiting relatives in Minnesota, ar
rived SatuidHy in Relllngbaiu, Wash.,
whole she will visit her parents. At
the annual meeting of St. Peter's Court,
Catholic Order of Foresters, olllcers ns
follows were elected: Chief langer,
Dr. D. J. Carroll; Ice-chief ranger. F
G. Ren. mil; past chief ranger, Alfred
Paiiton; lecorillng secretary, Frank
Robaie; finnnchil secretary, N. J.
Renaud; treasurer, John W, Rynn;
speaker, the Rev. L. A. Vezlna; mar
shal. George II. Rora. John Diiscoll of
lioston Is visiting his parents, Mr. and
Mrs. John Drlscoll. Dr. and Mrs. Wil
liam Ross of Jacksonville, Fin., are
visiting his fnther, Frank A. Ross, nnd
his sister. Miss Mary Ross.
The pteumcr Alexander sank at hei
moorings on the south side of the basin
1 elow the falls Thursday night. Th-i
steamer Is the property of M. H. and F.
L. Daniels nnd Is used In connection wi'.i
the steamer Victor between hero and
Westport, N. Y. Tho steamer Is about tf
foot long and Is licensed to carry about
IK) passengers. The sinking Is thought to
have heen caused by being accidentally hit
by a soft. nosed bullet from a high inllhiij
rifle.
Clayton Ftank Hearor of New Ilavci
and Miss F.thol Hill, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Wllianl Ulll of Rasln lltirbo.-,
were married Sunday afternoon at the
Vergennes Methodist Rplscopal parsonage
the Rev. Thomas Steeusnii pel forming
the ccremonv. Mr. and Jlrs. Roaior le.t
immediately after tho ceremony for Rur
llngton on a wedding trip. On their re
turn they will leslde at Raslu Harbor
Mr. and Mrs Hail F. Kevins, .Mr. mil
Mrs. Homer L. Powell ami two sous nt
Milton visited Percv K. Revlns Sunday.
Charles L. llnlght of Nowatk, N J., spent
tho week-end with his wife at the 110111"
of C. T. S. Pierce. Miss Cecllo Thomas
returned .Monday to Salisbury after a
visit to her cousin. Mrs. Allen P. Reach. -Quito
a large number from town nnd vi
chilly availed themselves of the open sea
son on ducks Saturday. Ducks are i"
! ported tn be plentiful and some go 1 1
bags are teportod. William F. Lawrence,
John Alublo, and Arthur llaincl secured
( 1.1 ducks, and George Sullivan nnd John
O'Dounell returned with 13. Hunters ic
! port seeing a large number of wood din-its
j which hnve Inci eased largely owing to
ihelr protection by law the past four o
llvn years Partridge ale also reported I ;
be numerous -The remains of an In
fant child of Mr. and Mrs. Harry Ja'ekma,!
of Lisbon. N Y .'wero brought heie Sat-
Iit Ida v evening. The funeral services worn
held Sunday at tho home nt Mrs. Caries
(Continued on paico tvro.)
New York, Sept. 20. Rioting was
renewed hero to-night In the car strike,
nfter Mayor Mltcliol and others had
failed during the day lo effect a set
tlement. Several hundred strikers and
their sympathizer attacked fnui sur
face cars and engaged In a running
tight with police reserves. Several per
sons, Including a woman, were hurt.
Many arrests were made.
What tho police chin acterized as a
conspiracy to uso dynamite in the
strike was frustrated b tho arrest of
a lunn who asserted he wns a striking
inotoimnn. The prisoner, it was said,
had attempted to purchase explosives
from a laborer In a new subwav exca
vation. The laboier reported the case
to the authorities, who set a trap.
When arrested at the label . t'- home
to-night, after two dummy pntkages
made up In the form of dynamite had
been passed to him, the striker is
alleged to have declared he sought tho
explosives to destroy two l'.ioadway
cars.
Hope of averting the threatened
strike of 700,000 union workers hero
In sympathy with the carmen has
diminished. Major Mitchel announced
that a personal appeal be had mnde to
beads of the trnnsit companies to treaf
with the stiikers had met with a lint
refusal. Meantime, preparations were
continued by union loaders for tho
"walk out" which. If carried out, may
paralyze Industry tluoughoiit tha
greater city.
Apparently the only chance now of
calling off the union officials In their
determination "to tie-up New York" by
Monday next. It wns snld to-night lies
in a eonfeience to be hold tn-nv.rr'W
between n citizens' committee and the
strike lenders.
S,inniel Gompers nnd 2.1 presidents of
Internntlonnl unions, who arrived to
day, held a conference, but no definite
nctl in wns taken regarding a general
strike. It wns sold they would meet
again Friday. Mi. Compels declined
to discuss the possibility nf the threat
ened sympathetic walk-out.
Some 10,000 women, wives of the
striking carmen and members of trade
unions, it ivas nnnnunced to-night, will
net as pickets, Iteglnning to-morrow.
It was said they contemplated riding
on subway and elevated railwaj- trains
in efforts to Induce the inotormen and
guards to desert their posts and Join
the union.
$2S,S9G,277 FOR WAR
RELIEF FROM U,
Washington, Sept. 20. Ameri- ans glri')
to the ffl principal war relief soi leie a,e
estimated at J2.SW.277.3i; by the new e.i
book of the Carnegie endowment fn In
ternational peace, being distributed tj
day. Seven millions went into the .Jo.r"l,ii1
raised from all sources for the i mnmlssion
of relief hi Ilelgiuni In addition, the Hoi.
glnn relief fund raised $3.iKV"e. other so
cieties added $lS(,(vm, making a grand t 'til
for HeUiutn of $ln,200,iwi, or more tha.i
ouo-thlrd of America's total contributions
Twelve organizations raised more
thn ti $2,000,000 for France; $.194,000
was raised for Kngland, $12,000 for
Russia, and $313,001) for Sorbin. This,
with the Relglan total, makes a grnnd
totnl for the entente nllles of more
than $13,000,000, not including somo
$3,000,000 of American Red Cross funds
which were largely used In allied coun
tries. The German Red Cioss received
$2, 7.10,000,
1,000,000 HOMELESS
BY FLOOD IN CHINA
Na-
Onc nf the Crrntest UlsnsterN In
thm's HlNtor-r.
Washington. Sept. 20. Nearly a mil
lion persons hnve been made homeless
hj- one nf the greatest Hoods on record
in China. Reports to the state depart
ment to-dnj- from the American con
sul nt Nanking said the Hwnl river had
Inundated an area of about 7,001)
square miles In Anhul province. Ap
peals for aid have been sent out for
the homeless, who vlrtunllj- nro entirely
dependent on ebaiity. as all the autumn
crops were dcstroj'ed.
The district Hooded Is in that part
of China where tho American Red
Cross already has spent $00,000 for
Hood protection and where tho $30.
000,000 lonn for reclamation work which
was postponed bj- the war was to hav
boon spent.
PR1CHS ADVANCE IN CHICAGO
Chicago, Sept. 20. Prices of foods,
clothes, luxuries and materials ha a
advanced alarmingly within the Ust,
year, according to a table of compara
tive prices compiled hero to-daj Mer
chants nnd producers say that prlc. a
for food will bo even higher this win
ter. Fvery person feels the Increased
price lu nearly every purchase, It win
said.
Wholesalers said that canning
houses all over the country have an
nounced that their deliveries will b
only one-third of the normal amount.
WYOMING'S CHKW RF.ST GUNNF.RS.
Newpoit News, Va., Sept. 20. -Report
brought ashore from the super-drer. 1
nought Wyoming to-night wero that tlw
essel bad led the Atlantic licet In Indi
vidual ship tiring during the target prac
tice on tho southern drill ground Thj
WjomliiR. which enmo Into Hnmpnn
Riiads to-day to take Secretary Dnu.oli
and the consulting board to the dull
Ki omuls to-morrow was said to hu j
scored )51 bits out of 70 shots with her 12
Inch lilies, and 101 hits out of ISO allots
with the-lnch guns. The range wns lot
given.
These records are considered remark
able nnd naval men wero Inclined to doubt
the accuracy of tho reports.
