?53P'I ""SBSMst
TODAY'S PRICES
' i k r t tnt t I - ' ' - T
M x r c M !
1 l- - l r H a I
- r ! r !-ri - --.
-r j i r i iiik '"nJi 5 k
MEMS-i
HOME EDITION
c
UXATHXK FOKEC4ST.
13 ro and wet Texas, fair. Xew
Mrxftw. fair. Arizona, fair.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SI.SULU COPT FIVE CENTS
EL PASO. TEXAS. THURSDAY EVENING. SEPTEMBER 21. 191 6.
UELIERtP UU'HfT.E Mir MON TH
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
W YORK FORCES STRIKE ARBITRATION
t k
AS (1
r th a
i
i
GUARDS
STAY IF THEY WISH
34lh's Commander Is
An Officer Of Note
Gen. Bell Reports Villa Gol '
6 Motor Loads Of Guns j
And Ammunition.
VILLA SPOKE AT
STATE PALACE
Had Sent Letter to Trevino
Promising To Come To
City, "Shake Hands."
WASHINGTON1. D. C. Sept. 21.
An official account of Villas
raid on Chihuahua City las;
S-iturday received at the war depart
ment today from Brig. Gen. Bell, at
I:.' Paso, Texas, says the bandit chief
captured some of Carranza's artillery
p nd 16 automobile loads of arms and
. nmunltion. liberated 20 prisoners
the penitentiary and made oft
tte- being Joined by from 1090 to 1500 I
I
HIS S "! Paso I
CHIM BEQUESTS TRANSFER 1 1 L L1II II IMflES II CITf;
F1EIGSL0I BE ALLIED : LONGEST PSRfiOE IN EL PflSO PASSES
BrFISTl
Application Is Made to the
; Quintuple Powers; Bank- j
, ing Houses in League, i
Pakln China, Sept. 21 Chen Chln
T.o, the Chinese minister of finance,
today formallj asked the quintuple
r"jp of banker for a S5i,000a00 re
j organizat.on loan on the security of
the salt monopob surplus The quin
l uple group is con, posed of r.presenta
t ves of Vmerica't. H-itish, Russian.
J French and Japanese financiers. The
bankers talk .1 11 .1 favorable nanner
regarding the loan and referred the
question ti '!.. h. ai,aai tt rs of their
1 -e-pecliv, noise's The entente repre
sentative explained to the Chinese
1 minister of finance that they could
j not cooperate with Germany. J
i At the Japanese legation here todav I
it was denied that the Japanese guv- !
' ernment will support 'he 5,00.00 yen
! an r. -t ntlv n.cttiated by Japanese 1
iunVera on the securit of the Yangtse
V jllev mines
Three Hundred Of Second
New York Ask to Stay in
Texas; Request Granted.
WOULD REMAIN
IN U. S. SERVICE
; Line Extends From Ysleta to Fort Bliss Through El
Paso Streets; Troopers Stop to Eat Field Rations
and Feed Animals en Route; Splendid Patriotic
Spectacle Witnessed by Thousands.
Transfer Can Only Be Made
To Other Regiments Of
Stale.. Saus Funslon.
' I -
a-jA
I
TODAY is an epoch making day
in the history of 1 Paso.
The people of this city are
fortunate in seeing this parade,
which is one of the largest military
pageants that has been held in the
United States in recent years.
In no other way could the excel
lent spirits and trim of the men be
shown, than by having them march
along, fit, healthy, and contented,
in an impressive procession nearly
20 miles long. Gen. Geo. Bell, jr.,
commander of the El Paso district.
I
s
1 Haderers Po-tra'- Stndlu
ISM
ALLEGED Mm
CoL C. 1: Tientler. eommnmler of
I the 34th r. S infantry at Camp Cot
ton, was the first field officer to
graduate from the school of the line
at Fort Leavenworth He has prad-
' uated from all of the ami) servic
schools, including the school of the
tine and the uar ollege at Washing
ton, He graduated from Wet Point
1 in 1SS4 and. swcetrtbat time, has served
' Hers of the Carranza garrison.
ccordipg to Gen .Bell's information.
' 1 himself went to the governor's
".- and made a speech from tbe
.' ny after his forces had captured
r. il.ice the penitentiary and fed-
" ' buildings.
ThF rpoi t ea tba ton September
ilia cent a letter to Gen. Trevino
-".mander at Cbihuahua, sayimg lie
t M be In the crfy at z "p. "EL,-Sat-
-cay. to snake nuu
i'iri MiiStyZm- rfn.
. . - , i -. -j ' Ore. and he came here to organize the
' r V 1U accomplished even more than ?"h ""Z; wl? 1tlJ'ts f"mJ,whe',
,. a v.. .,m t.. .i I the new arim bill became effective.
- rj deserted him. it appears and
itre -musion many governmen
-s were killed by their
x '"S-
What Vllln Vecompli
Oen P.-11 s report follows
Olathe. Kas . Sept. !1
charged with the murder of
j Muller. an apreo German, and his wife.
i was taken from the Johnson county
jail here early this morning by a
j masked mob and hanged to a tele
phone pole.
The mob came to Olathe in n.oto
cars. supposedly from near .s til well.
VX ANTONIO. Texas, Sept.
Tbe request of 300 members of
the Second New Tork infantry to
I remain on border duty after they had
been ordered home, resulted today In
I an announcement by HaJ- Gen. Preder-
Funston that guardsmen who wish
stay can transfer to other regiments.
sing men who want to return to
homes. Men can be transferred
onlv to regiments from their own
state.
I la every state or territory in tne union.
. ta A BJ t linntsa A a .. u. AF
diitr ti, i-h prt nw.. .nrt fc. L here Muller had lived. Sheriff Lon
"i made s-verar trip around the world. 1 CarroTi "refused
Iientler's home is in Portland
Col
Bert Dudley.
Henry There are men In all regiments who.
neiause ui business interests. ieet iney
should be permitted to leave the ser-
ice since there is no actual warfare.
Im.stigation in the Second New Tork
lis. losed scores of its members with-
-fji ( a flc?sassD a sp as ni 1 -- -
anxiou to remain In the federal ser- 1 Irom SKte street.
to five ud Dudley and
the mob overpowered him The then
battered down three Jail doors Sev
eral shots were fired but no one ws
injured
""i EERlflN FORGES ATTACK IN WEST,
USING HII GBE10ES; REPULSED
Lt dnce increnes to show that
!a wa. omplet. Iy successful in his
itia k Saturday upon Chihuahua and
. '"plihed all and more than he
si d be would do There is diversity
. f mon and statements as to the
i t of men with which he entered
c ,1 "a. Some reports state he only
-a. ' t nOO. whil others give him --ERLIN. German. Sept- - Troops
i- but all agree tha the was able i I J jfcronn prince P.upprecht of Ba
to . . O'e possession of tne penlten- I JJ
r te c.ernor-s palace and the ' ' r engaged in continuous
e -al b-jii hngs and hold them for hand grenade fightins: with Kntente
se -a' fc. - and all this with a J anied forces near Courcel-tte. north
t -- ti pairison at Chihuahua whlcn .... . . .
e -e r'? e at not lees than 00. He ', r "e river Somme. sajs todays offi
i -: over 200 prisoners, secured . cial statement. Ground which had been
' ar-ied away more Uian IS auto- j gained by Germans in an attack south
- - . e lcifi of arms and ammunition ,., .
ct n" cort of deserting troops. west ot Rsncourt and in Bouchavesnes
e" Chihuahua with from 100 to 1 was lost, the statement adds, after bit
1 r - mn than he entered with. 1 ter fiehtinir
Lft Without llolentstlon. I D . ,
"VI a -. "-ed leisurely and practical- Regiments of the Russian iruard in
' tt at molestation. The firin? ' nJunction with other strong forces
T-einni artillery occurred after
L'
s tr. ps had withdrawn.
"HIP" VILLA RELEASED; IS
NOW FREE TO GO ANYWHERE
, continued their attacks 'Wednesday on
a front 12 miles wide in the region west
of Lutsk in Volhia. says today's offi
cial statement. Kxcept near Korynitza.
where a battle is Ft ill in progress, the
statement s.i repeated Russian storm-
K inllto Villa was released from the ' ing attacks- failed with sanguinary
Co ," il "vTednesday afternoon, af- J losses
trr e rj.' tield for several days on a
rroupnt oy tne imm
OXTXX. Eng., Sept ! The Brit
ish a w-ll as the French have
been subjei ted to heavy attaiks
ov the German" on the Somme front.
Continuous assaults were made last
night on positions held l.v the New
Zealanders south of the Ancre but
every attack was beaten off. the Ger
mans losing heavily
On the eastern front Petrograd an
nounces an offensie moement by the
German alone the Stokhod. in Volhv-
nia. southeast of Koel but declares
ice Thi information was transmitted
to Oea. Funstea by Gen. 0Ryan, of the
New Tork natianal guard. "
Mtmr iBMtnirtlvn to (ten. Clement.
The commander of tbe southern de
partment immediatel) wired his con
sent to transfers. He also sent to Maj.
Gen. Charles M. Clement, commander
at El Paso of the Pennsylvania divis
ion, instructions to carry tbe plan Into
effect among his troops.
Three Pennsylvania regiments soon
will be released by the arrival at the
border of a similar number of North
"arolina regiments.
I Second Xew 1 ork starts Home.
The Second New Tork began Iea ing
1 Pharr. Texas, and McAllen today, and
i will be cleared by tomorrow, its place
. in the Xew Tork division being taken
by the Third Tennessee.
The release of thousands of troops
on the border by the war department
has reduced the number of provisional
guard divisions to ten. Gen. Funston's
original plan called for three divisions
of regulars and IS of guardsmen.
The First Vermont Infantry left
Eagle Ps today today for home, be
ing relieved by the First Tennessee.
niijrbt thrill ot Americanism
passed through 1 Pao Thurs
day as it witnessed one of the
greatest military pasvants in tbe his
tory of the United State the parade
of an entire infaHtry division at full
uar strength, consisting of over 26,090
men. SG00 animaU and 1006 vehicles.
When the head of the procession
pussed the reviewing stand east of Fort
lilirn after a three hoars' march, short
ly after 11 oclock, the wagon trains
forniiu" the rear of the procession at
Ysleta, had not vet bejrun to move.
When the parade started it was strum;
out alons a line 11 milee tons;, extend -iB
east on Texas from Xorth Florence
street, oat Alameda avenue to the EI
Paso-Ysleta road, as far east as Ysleta
itself. The orieinal line was length
ened br reinforcements that poured in
Although the tech
CapL J. n.
and Lieut. G.
Dickey.
G. Sea-
formed
NEW YC
of the
in its
WIFE OF COL. GUILFOYLE,
BORN AT FORT BLISS, DIES
Honolulu. T. H.. Sept. !1. Mrs. Susan
Oullfovle. wife of Col. John P Guilfoyle.
Fourth t S. cavalrj. died at their home
.... .......r.M-i. ... n...-i i.Ui iiniai es , jij me 4.ir7 cjiiiiuniiienc at easier,
all attacks on the Russian lines were j following a long Illness of cancer. In-
repuiseu ana inni several r.unared uer
mans were captured during the fight
ing near Korytniza and Sviniusky In
!
lv,
t"C no ' '
T-At tie was In the cou
a' rg entered under
P OSS A PULSE
LEW DIE
and without inspection
i Ke tVest from Havana.
was released on orders from
t t,t-:g'ation officials at Washing-
f to whom the facts of his hearing
Paso had been sent for final ac-
- - Villa is now free to remain in
-i . ronntrv unless new charges are
J- ijrli. i---int him Tie .r.l-f troent
r.sf h n charging an attempt to Pane, France. Jept II The repulse
7 flld Tw'weekTico"1""" WaS d'S"if violent Bulgarian attacks on the
'a was greeted by a la-c- crowd Kaimakcalan peak with heavy loses
cr r no on his release from the i to the attackers is reported in an offi-
, n tv mi m is marriei ana win ; cU1 stateo,ent given out bv
s one n auuuici i-., 11 is -
sertedL
HEALTH OF U. S. TROOPS
ON BORDER EXCELLENT
F n
the war
office today. In the region of the
Brod river tbe Bulgarians forced their
way into the village of Boresnlca after
two attack- had failed. They were
driven out by the Servians in baonet
tne Carpathians the Russians report
an advance near Panther mountain
where a position on a height was cap
tured. Itnmnnlan.i Unit Iletlremcnt.
No further progress for the Ruman
ians in their invasion of southern
Transylvania is reported but Bucharest j which the colonel was in command, "was
announces mat tne Kuraanian trooos
which 'ecently were forced baik to
the border, losing
bzurduk pass m
Alps, have halted
SOUth Of Petro-ei,;
their new positi. n
Petroseny and th
the Transylvaman
tbe.r retirement
and are fortifving
ES SHORT.
ISS1S REBEL
nical length of an infantry division U
ia.4 miles, tne actual legatk f 'JJrars.
day's precession was nearly St raifes.
Lcg Thin Line.
Headed br mounted poliremen J. R.
Stathan and G. :. Monteomerv, tbe big
parade was set in motion exactlv at
S:10 a. m. Beeisniiic from Texas' and
Xorth Florence Streets, it wound west
ward to Mesa avenue, northward to
Montana street, and northeastward to
Fort Bliss by way of Montana and Bliss
street.
Crowds lined tbe entire line of march.
Flags were een flying from dwellings
and office buildings, a spirit of order
lines'! and aood nature prevailed.
1 am certainly pleased with the way
the people of Ei Paso' have cooperated
with me so far in preserving order,"
said chief of police B. J. Zabriekie, a
he stood directing operations at the
i starting point on Texas and Florence
streets, shortly after 10 oclock.
Traffic Kept Moving.
Traffic moving in tbe same direction '
as tbe parade along Texas street was
deflected south along Xorth Florence
street by patrolman Andr Shobe. of the
traffic squad. Later officer Shobe was
transferred to Mesa and Texas street.
to straighten out a threatened conges
tion where tbe parade was making its
northward turn. In short order the u
toisU were given to understand that
thev could not break through the lines,
snd that thev must wait for one of the
lrcqnent breaks to occur before thev
could cross. .litne machines were kept
entirely off Mesa avenue. Montana
street and Boulevard.
Four Abreast.
Tbe soldiers marched four abreast,
and kept to the right of the street.
LietiU F. C. Hecox. of the motorcycle
stationed at Douglas, Ariz, before his , company, was stationed at Texas and
transfer to the Fourth cavalry. j Florence streets until after the Masa-
jtrs. ouiuoyie is survived Dv her nus- rhusetts-Michigan brigade hx! r.ss.l
terment will probaby be at Washing
ton. D i
Mrs Guifovle was widely known
throughout the armv and by hundreds
of civilians along the Mexican border.
She was born at old Fort Bliss. Texas.
in 1SJ. the daughter of CoL and Mrs.
W. B. Lane Col and Mrs. Guilfoyle
lived on the border during the many
months when the Ninth cavalry, of
band and two children. Mrs. Iloyle. wife
of first lieutenant Kene de It. Iloyle.
First Field artillery, and Miss Suzanne
Guilfoyle.
PENN. CAPTAINS HAVE
BEEN MADE MAJORS
Capt Miller I. Brown, regimental
adjutant of the first Pennsylvania in
fantry, has been promoted to be a : automobile bended foe Ivl LJilZ,
major and will command the second ! " , r!f' ndert. " the reviewing
battalion i smno. lire general took hi flag, and
CapL Edwin E. Hollenbeck. of the j J3 accompanied by his two aides. Capt.
supply company, bas been promoted to ' Charles B. Moore ami Lieut. Henry B.
major or tne third battalion to fill the ewis: taw. lienrv C. Pratt, assistant
to see that the "keen to Tun- r;ht"
order was obeyed.
At 10.30. the men halted for hineh.
which consisted of two sandwiches and
a canteen of water. The horses were
fed oats out ot" nosebaes at that time.
Gen. Bell leaves for Review.
At 10:15. ;en. Bell left his beadnuar-
w at tne .vims ouildiug in a special
eighth cavalry
eighth cavalry.
man. artillery.
Marts at Oehoa.
The motor cycle company
on Texas street, facing west, with bead
at Ocboa. street, at 8 a. ro, and pre
ceded the brigade of Brig. Gen. Le
Roy Sweetser.
Ccn. iteeterji llrlsnile.
The Massachusetts-Michigan brigade
was commanded by Brig. Gen. E. Le
Roy Sweetser. and was composed of
the following troops: First war
strength regiment. Massachusetts;
second war strength regiment. Mass
achusetts, and third war strength regi
ment. Michigan
The Ohio-Pennsvlvan.a brigade was
composed of two regiments from the I
Ohio troops, and a third regiment from !
tbe Pennsylvania troops, all at war j
strength. It was commanded by Brig
Gen. W. E. McMacken. Ohio national t
guard.
The brigade of regular. Kentucky, j
and South Carulina troops was com-
manded by Brig. Gen. Roger U. Wil- .
lams, Kentucky national guard. The
first regiment was made up of regu
lar troops, the second of South Caro
lina militiamen, and the third of
Kentuckv soldiers.
Brigade of Artillery.
TV. i.....-........l r:i
. manded bv Col C T Menober wa.x
composed of the stb United States
field artillery, a Xew Mexico battery,
and a Rhode Island battery. Tbe sec
ond regiment consisted of tbe Penn
sylvania artillerj. and tbe third Massa
chusetts artillery.
Next came a provisional cavalry
regiment, commanded, by Lieut- CoL J.
J- HnrBk-rook, and coasistnta; of a.
sajaaaron from the eighth cavalry, one
from the Massachusetts cavalry and
one irom tne Knode Island. South
Carolina, and 17th cavalry units.
UDclBrrni' JIattnllnn.
The provisional regiment of en
gineers, commanded b Maj. M. C
Tyler, was composed of one battalion
of Ohio engineers and one battalion of
South Carolina and Pennslvanla en
gineers. The first Massachusetts signal bat
talion constituted tne battalion of
signal troops, and was commanded by
Maj. Harry B. Chase.
Motor Cycle Company.
Tbe motor ccie company was com
manded by Capt- F. B. Eastman.
The trams were commanded by Maj.
E. Stegerfoos. seventh infantry, and
were composed of an ammunition
train, a suonlv train. mmiunfiMi hv
Capt. J. A. Wagner, eighth cavalry . a,
sanitary train, commanded hv Mt vv
tr l.'tnn nn. an .. nni.. n.. ,. 1
... ........ .. as. ciiKinm wain, com- : .: . .. .
manded by Capt- Van Denberg. of the P""8 ln "Pute.
unio engineers
lien. Sweetser hnp.t fnrai.... In
the area west of Noble nd south of
icxas street, with the head
Street Railway Executives
And Employes to Appear
At Hearings Monday.
BOTH SIDES TO
GIVE TESTIMONY
The A dministration Is Deter'
mined Not To Endure
Threatened Stride.
EW YORK. Sept 21. Arbitration
city's transit strike, now
its third week, will be en
forced by the state board ef arbitra
tion and mediation. It was announced
here today by H. J. Hegan, a member
of tbe board. Hearings will be held
beginning M-inday and both sides will
be directed to present testimony.
Asserting the strike is "the moat
menacing labor situation that bas eve
threatened the peace and prosperity, "
of the city's population, Mr. Hegan de
clared that if a general sympathetic
trade strike was called the "safety and
livelihood of (,0M,tM or T,S0,ed peo
ple in this corner of the state," would
be endangered.
Change the Slogan.
"It Is time that the expression, 'the
public be damned be changed to the
new slogan, the public be protected,' "
Mr. Hegan added. "The time has came
to put an end to the bickerings be
tween the railroads and their employes.
The disputants appear to be unable to
make an end themselves. Therefore
the board Intends to exercise Its pow
ers and to make an end for them.'
Settlement Possible.
"I have already taken steps to bring
about the compulsory submission of the
From my investiga
tions so far, I have decided that a set
tlement through mutual concessions bv
the I ,Be companies and men is possible. I
unction of Virginia and Texas streets. will urge that the companies take back
way" f Texle 'ionJ-..a ! th"r. ''"""I emp," and " "
Bliss streets eastward to the review- K1 point in confoversy by reducing
tne time of operation of the socalied
master and servart contract from two
years to one year."
Irt.i' ... Tt Cnt -M TV.1 I
" ' -- . .,r.. .. ,w.. !-..
TV -e Ip Mci aw. chief surgeon of the ! ""'"t
,.., rlT-r. flenrlment spinnttnpwl Wf- 1 Further progress
r,,i health conditions of the armv nrtd on " .'ft :,nS where they
a -g t le border are excellent, with
for tbe allies is
' nave reached bill 1SS0. three miles
- r v v
taw announced In three weeks there
he been no deaths from infection
axonjr the 10S.100 men on the border.
Tv-a-typhoid has been practically wiped
cut
Five died during the week ending
Eept 16. from injuries and there was
ne death from appendicitis
Fickness among tl e soldiers -as re
ported as follows
d- Sep' 16 El Paso, 1 7 percent; No
als A"t " percent. Arizona points.
vie ie Nogales, S S percent: Laredo. 1 t
per it Brownsville district, 2 percent.
Berlin. Germanj, Sept. 21. (By wire-
less to Sayville, L. I.) Advices from
, Constantinople, says the Overseas
; Agency today, tell of a mutiny amont;
Bwtna rf 41.A Tfne..... I".. .. ..a k.. a .... t i 1 .. ft. ....Ir
j because of lack of provisions. Several ' ..,,. VY
vacancy caused bv the resienatlnn of district njiintaMt rvj n tt vr
j maj. J. K Xicholls. who resigned and Inited States ea'valrv'. nH ri S,'
I left for Philadelphi;
Lieut. Edward TV. Neeham. of the
1 Pennsylvania supply company, has been
nromoted to captain, to fill the vacancy-
caused bj the promotion of Capt. Hol-
1 lElTOMr I'tnuiMEMS J officera, among whom wa one regi
TO MEBX. iJIsci'-.s PU.UV-, J mental commander, were killed durlni
I Berlin. Germany. Sept, 21. By wire
t less to Sayville. L. L) A meeting of
' German and Austro-Hungarian mem
bers of parliament will be held at Salz
I burg. 1 j- miles southwest of Vienna
savs the Overseas News agency, to dis
cuss political questions of common in
terest to both countries.
I KM3M1 AIItMK.-V ATT1CK
TWO RCHA.Ml. TOM'JS
i"a HAnnKit
n.T nilllli, TOOLS .STOLK.N
M Zubafskv. of company II. J'th in
fantry, asked the aid of the police Wed
nesdav niaht in locating some harhor
supplies and instruments that had been i twrade went to the reviewim- stand as
j ra nom ins ceni tv eanesuay morn- j oon as weir part ot the program wa
the outbreak, the reports declare.
RUMANIANS AND RUSSIANS
STIiRRfiBI.Y RFRIQT nilinADC Mn-t.
Sofia. Bulraria. fot ,- ..r1 Pair of clippers, and several razors
ti T . ..: !pi;v. r ' "'" included in the theft. The robbery
London, Sept. 21 Stubborn resistance occurred rlurinir the Wn V 5
is being offered by the Rumanians and Sar"fcv ,1ur" the absence of Zu
Russians to the attacks of the Teutonic i
allies in the great battle now in
I second Arkansas national mnnl
j Gen. Clement Reviews Troops.
The right of review was innnll in
Mai. Oen. Oban. M. Clement, commanding
the Pennsylvania division. Besides Oen.
Bell and party, tbe reviewing stand was
ncci-pied bv tbe general officers and
their staffs and all tbe regular and na
tional guard colonels of the district. The
general officers that particinated in the
ing stand at the southern extremity of
"! oiiss. ner. ine troops rormed
in mass, each parader being given the
opportunity of seeing his comrades in
the rear pass the stand.
Ohlo-frnnsylvanla Brigade.
The Ohio-Pennsvlvania brigade, un
der Gen. McMacken. formed in the
area between Noble and Dallas streets,
and followed Gen Sweetser's brigade
at a distance of lou yards.
Oen. Willams s brigade formed in the
area between I 'alias and Piedras
streets, with the head at the junction
of Dallas and Texas streets, and fol
lowed Gen. .speaks brigade at a dis
tance of 101 yards.
The prov isional regiment of en
gineers formed at the intersection of
Piedras and lameda streets nH fal
lowed Gen Wtllams's brigade at a dis
tance of 10'J yards
Mcnnl llattallon.
The signal battalion formed In th.
area south of vlameda street, between i ment
.p Maiun anu i.iiiia streets, with 1
2S sln-M-arc. ee'tTand rotlSwed STATE ANSWER TO RAILROAD
..VdistancTof T.f"?:rdsor 'n'n INJUNCTION IS FILED
The provisional brigade of field ar-j' Austin. Tex.. Sept. 21 The state's
tillery formed in the column of the answer to the railroads ln the Inlnne-
J? JS. ,k .rl-EI Paso roa.l. fa.- . Jion proceedings restraining the cancel-
i??W " W"h th,r hea1 at Stevens ' ltion of increased freight rates, has
on v-iet- vi i. .. J ' " J,"1 " th fedl district court
On 1lctn-l.I Vnno Itoad. i for this section
fgrk!rttr' ' --'-Xr11 c' atn'oVg
J Vvn.rnt.gni.1,,d lT- "2 t!.rerai?rad,r,ttode,gnIo0rn.
n,,ndin,?or,meo'8,onb tsIeU-W ' a0,B",e"- d's"",i theTolitv
Paso road, immediately , the rea? tf fo sntam-J0.ndtK,t,lS- and al,ows thein
th. .m.i..i .. "..rr . snbstitute their own rates ..,
followed without distance. """" na I they ay i their pleadings, will aflow
The divisional trains followed the ' 7
GREEK ISUi
CRETEREVOLTS
Paris. France. Sept. 21 A revolu
tion in the Greek island of Crete Is
reported in a Havas dispatch fron
Athena The revolutionists are said to
have proclaimed a provisional govern-
""...- .- ; s '-V w wl.se llW 14 .
Bucharest. Rumania. SeDt. 21 To- I progress in the Rumanian province of I
vnnril IMnlANQ MI1CT HAVF i day s official announcement says: i Dsonnija- The war office announced
lAUUl INlJIAna ulOal HAVfc I Eneniy airplanes dropped bomtps on I today that so far the defence had been !
PASSPORTS. SAYS CALLES Constanza. where no one was injured. I maintained in its strongly fortified po
s !-.. v,i, cf t s t ' nd on Piatra Neamtu. where a child i sition.
""S'" "' .'. '--'- "- - r- was lniured. I
j INTERNATIONAL SOItl
sr-s ft-rtppirre rnwinM .1 Jr-;
rjyuvijLii'itinitHY ,
Ariz , Sept. II. Gen.
Ellas Ci"es. military commander in
sonoia, ha issued a decree that all
Juaquis over 12 years of age must be
provided with passports by their em
yloyers. telling their home addresses
and all facts of Interest in connection
with them
Oe.i '".lies has been n. formed that
tie Indians are in tb oibit of working
lb g euougji to get some food, clotntng,
(Continued on Page :, Column 1.)
OBJECT TO TORPEDOING.
Madrid, Spain. Sept 21. A strong i
THREE AUSTRIAN ARCHDUKES
ARE RELIEVED OF COMMAND
protest agair.st the destruction of the London. Eng, Sept. 21 "Three more I
Spanish ships by submarines has been Austrian archdukes." savs a dispatch
made to the government b the Spanish from Zurich to the Wireless Press. '
Ship Ow ners" jm fation The associa- ' have been ejected, as the result of Ger- i
tion declares that the orpedoing of the man lnnuence, trom tnree Important
t-hips is rontrarv t.. all pnciples of In- i commands. Th message says,
ternational law and elementary rules j "Archduke Eugene, recently com-
(Contlnued on pace 4, Col. 6.)
22 l
Ida
z
, tci unvtiinai i,
of humanity.
ztt
EL PASO I
TEXAS
OCTOBER
14 TO 26
1916
m
as
0PENI1C OF THE
on
.ELEPHANT BUTTE DAM.
over, in order that thev inirht view tbe
resf of tbe procession. The men were
narked to the right of the line, directed
bv a staff officer. The parade lasted
over six hoi"rs.
Oriler of March.
The order of march was as follows
Troops: Brig Gen Charles G
Morton. I" S . commindin? chief of
staff Maj H. E. Ely. seventh infantry,
assistant chief of staff. Capt J C
Rhea, eighth cavalry assistant chief
of staff. CaDt F J Elv. 17th cavalry.
Aides: Lieuts Sumner Waite. fifth In
fantry: O E Wood. 31th infantry: J
F. Barnes, fifth field artillerv Adjutant-
Capt W W Taj lor 20th In
fantry. Inspector Mij C C Smith,
unassigned infantrv Judge advocate
"Maj. I B Simonds. unassigned Infan
try Ouarterniaste- Capt Dean Hal
ford. 23d infantry. Surgeon, Maj. C.
W Marrow. t. C.
ttached staff Capt V. W. Cooper,
iieia trains.
After nassinir the r.i i.rin. nn
the troops were massed on the right
into the line, as directed by a staff
officer. In this way the members of
each part of the parade were able to
review- the other paraders The pro
cession disbanded after passing the
reviewing stand, at about 3 pm.
Miles Of Troops March
Down Montana St. Like
A Mighty, Living River
Impressive as was tbe military parade
from any angle, the view down Montana
street from Mesa avenue to Piedras
stieet was probablv the most spec
tacular The long stiaizht street was
filled with mustard . olored troops, the
cavalry and i rtillen guidon and the
regimental and nitinn.i minN mu ..
touch of high color to the scene and
(Continued on Pnge S, Column 3.1
Collection Of much lnrr.AiMl -.
ri.Me inin uie snippers.
I The State's answer holds that the de
r ision does not purport to do this, and If
tt does become so construed, it Is void
, ebcapae the interstate commerce com
rvisslou act itself prohibits the commis
sion from raising Interstate rates
DREADNOUGHT WYOMING
SCORES 1 HITS. 70 SHOTS
Newport News, Va Sept. 31. The
super dreadnought Wyoming. In Indi
vidual ship firing on the southern drill
grounds, scored 61 bits out of TO shots
with her 12 inch rifles and 101 hits out
of 1S( shots with five Inch guns.
These records are considered remarkable.
I PANAMA TREASURY LOOTED!
j ClSTOMS FRAUDS ALLEGED
I Panama, Sept 21. Appointment of
m Vroerlcan controler of the Panama
treasury may be hastened by discoverv
of heavy embezzlements " from the
treasury. Irregularities in the customs
. administration are said to have bee.
! disclosed.
Army Onlv Twice Wha t We S
ouht Out The War With Spai
