VOL XX NO. ICO.
FRENCH SLOWLY
GAIN MASTERY
NEARVERDUN
Capture Two More Trenches
Together with 100 Prison
ers, South of Thiaumont
Wbrk, and Also Gain 100
Yards in Chapitre Wood,
Says Paris Report
GERMAN ATTACKS
ON SOMME CEASE
Weather Continues Poor for
Operations There Ger
mans Attacked All Day on
Wednesday, but Failed to
Dislodge the French from
I Their Positions
Paris, Sept. 21. Tin French have made
another pain in the Verdun sector, where
they captured two trenches anl 100 pris
oners Kimth of Thiaumont work, accord
ing to the oflieiul statement to day. They
also gained 10(1 yards in the Chapitra
wood. Had weather still halts the oper
ations on the Somnie, and the German
attacks have not. been resumed.
ATTACKED ALL DAY.
But Germans Were Thrown Back By the
French.
London. Sept. 21. In an effort to re
trieve in part their lost territory, the
Germans Wednesday, despite bad weath
er, made violent counter-attack against
the French over a three-mile front in the
region of the Pries farm and Bouchavea
IK'S, north of the Somme.
In mass formation the Teuton threw
attack after attack along the line from
0 o'clock in the morning until dark, but
at the end of the day the French every
where were holding their positions, ac
cording to Paris, and the battlefield at
points was covered with German dead.
The Germans did penetrate the north
east part of the village of Bom-haves-lies,
but here the French met them w ith
the bayonet and dislodged them. Four
assault's at the Priez farm In which the
Germans came on in waves were repulsed
by the French, whose observers assert
t fiat the Germans at last withdrew in
disorder, leaving many dead.
REVOLUTION GETS
CONTROL OF CRETE
Greek Island Is in Hands of Rebels and a
Provisional Government Has
Been Set Up.
Paris, Sept. 21. A revolution in the
Greek island of Crete is reported in a Ha
vas despatch from Athens. The revolu
tionists are said to have proclaimed a
provisional government.
Several revolutionary outbreaks in
Greece have been reported since the en
trance of Rumania into the war. Last
month revolutionists obtained control of
parts of Greek Macedonia near Saloniki
and proclaimed a provisional government.
The movement is said to be spreading
but further news is withheld by the cen-
LOSS OF GROUND
ADMITTED BY BERLIN
South of Rancourt and Bouchavesnes
After Bitter Fight-
ing.
Berlin, via London, Sept. 21. The
troops of Crown Prince Kupprecht of
Bavaria are engaged in continuous hand
grenade fighting with the entente allies
forces near Courcellette, north of t be
Somme, says to-day's statement. The
ground, which had been gained by the
Germans in an attack southwest of Ran
court and in Bouchavesnes, was lost aft
er bitter fighting, the statement adds.
NEW ZEALAND TROOPS
IN SHARP DEFENSE
Beat Off German Attacks South of the
Ancre River and Inflicted Severe
Losses on the Attackers.
London, Sept. 21. The Germans
launched heavy counter attacks last
night on the British positions south of
the Ancre river on the Somme front, the
war office announced this afternoon. The
New Zealand troops defending the posi
tions beat off the Germans with severe
losses to them.
RUMANIA HALTS
' ARMY RETIREMENT
After Retreating in Transylvania, Troops
Have Made Stand South of Petro-
seny, Says Bucharest
J1 Statement
Bucharest, via London, Sept. 21. The
battle of Dobrudja, between the Danube
and the Black sea. continues with inten
sity along the whole line. An oflicial
announcement was made to-day that the
Russians and the Rumanians have re
pulsed the tiermans and Bulgarians, in-
flirting heavy losses. The Rumanian
troops, which have been retreating in
Transylvania, hare halted their retire
ment south of Fetroaeny, the statement
aJ.
TBf
VON MACKENREN HALTED
IN RUMANIA DRIVE
Field Mai.hal Von M. ken.' n"
a. ha nee thoruch the Rumanian
province of Dohrtldja, where the
combined German, Bulgarian and
Turkish force have Im-ii striking
lor the railroad from Coii-tatiM to
the interior of Rumania, has been
clicked for the time at least, ac
cording to the account ft "dh
id.-a.
The reor regarding the niii
lng in the Fiorina district in north
western Macedonia are eoiillicting.
The account from the entente
sources assert that the Unitarians
are falling back and prcparina fr
the defense of Monnlir. Sofia,
however, announces a turn in the
fighting favorable to the Bulgarian
foreea.
Further east in the mountainous
country along the Serbian border,
the engagement is heavy all along
the line, the htrupule in the Kai
niakcala district being particularly
stubborn. I'n the far western end
of the line, the allies are making
progress, but are apparently at
tempting no forward thrust in ei
ther the Vardar or struma regions.
The defeat of the Germans in
desperate counterattacks along
the Somme front, reported lust,
night by Paris, has been followed
by comparative quiet in that re
gion. After a lapse of some days,
activity ha been resumed by the
French in the Verdun region.
MORE ATTACKS.
FROM HOUSE TOPS
Passengers on New York Elevated Trains
Injured in Repeated Fusillades of
Bricks and Bottles Car Win
dows Smashed.
New York, Sept. 21. Repeatedly dur
ing the early hours to-day the Sixth and
Third avenue elevated trains were as
sailed by strike sympathizers on roof
tops. Twenty-two such attacks were re
ported by the police within a few hour.
Car windows were smashed under show
era of bricks and bottles, and several
passengers were injured.
WhHt the police characterize as a con
spiracy to use dynamite in the strike
was frustrated by the arrest of a man
who asserted he was a striking motor
man. The prisoner, it was said, had at
tempted to purchase explosives from a
laborer in a new ribway excavation. The
laborer reported the case to the author
ities who set a trap. When arreted at
the laborer's home last night, after two
dummy packages made up in the form of
dynamite had been passed to him, the
striker is alleged to have declared he
sought the explosives to destroy two
Broadway cars.
SUED MAN WON.
John D. Williams of Poultney Defendant
in $600 Action.
pliirt Sent. 21. -A verdict for the
defendant was returned in Rutland coun
ty court yesterday afternoon in the case
nt T'twrt E. Farmer against .lohn 1).
Williams, both of Poultney, in which
the plaintiff sought to recover ?uooo,
claimed to be due on borrowed money.
Attorneys M. C. Webber of this city and
J. B. McCormick of Granville, X. Y., ap
n.rol (nr Farmer and Attorneys J. ('.
Jones and B. L. Stafford of Rutland were
counsel for Williams.
The Farmer-Williams case whien lias
been on trial since Monday afternoon,
was of considerable interest in that Mrs.
Farmer and Mr. Williams are. brother
and sister. The trouble arose because
Ar William horrowed $2100 with which
to buy a piece of property in Poultney,
known as the Mary Stannard place, to
gether with a woodlot.
The plaintill claimed nc ivnueu
ir;ii;m. half of the monev and that
nr- Williams' father loaned the remain
der. The plaintiff claims he has never
repaid in lull, tne naiance unnB nu.,..v
$000. The defendant alleged full pay
ment of the $2100 to his father.
TWO DUXBURY NATIVES.
George J. Andrews Died in Waitsfield,
Homer Freeman in Duxbury..
t- ti, -vr Knt 21. George J. An-
drews, who was born in. Duxbury May 30,
1868, died Tuesday in Waitsfield at the
home of his daughter, Mrs.. Fred Wilder.
Mr. Andrews had been ill for a long tune
with Bright's disease. He was the son of
Jacob and Jane (Freeman) Andrews and
was first married to Eliza Neill. After
her death he married Nora Farroswortb,
who survwes him witti one aaugnier mm
two sons, besides Mrs. Wilder, the daugh
ter above mentioned. The funeral was
held this afternoon at Mrs. Wildcr's
home in Waitsfield.
Homer Freeman of Duxbury suffered a
shock early last evening and died at 10
o'clock. He was a cousin of Mr. An
drews, whose death is mentioned above.
Mr. F'reeman was born in Duxbury July
288, 1878. the son of G. W. L. and Clara
(Eaton! Freeman, and married May 2!,
1!HV, Jennie Haskins of Duxbury. His
widow, two daughters and one son sur-..:-..
.i threa sisters. Mrs. D. E. Phil
lips' of Duxbury. Mrs. Roy Kellogg of
Massachusetts ana .Mrs. nerueri iru u.
Moretown.
Funeral arrangements have not yet
been completed.
LOW RECORDS OF DEATHS.
But There Were More New Cases of In
fantile Paralysis in New York.
New York, Sept. 21. Twenty-six new
cases of infantile paralysis were shown
in the department of health's report to
day, an increase of eight over yesterday.
There were six deaths, a decrease of four,
and this was. with one exception, a low
record of fatilties since June 2j.
SHOT HIS WIFE.
It Waa an Accident When William Bet
ters Wounded Her.
Burlington. Sept. 21. William Betters
accidentally hot his wife through one
arm with a rifle to-dT. She ill recov
er.
BARKE DAILY TIMES
" BAHHK. VERMONT, THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER '21, 1910.
26,000 MEN
IN BIG REVIEW
National Guardsmen and
Regulars Marched at
El Paso
IMPRESSIVE SIGHT AS
THEY SWUNG ALONG
Said to Have Been Biggest
Parade of Troops Since the
Civil War Grand Review
Kl Paso. Tex.. Sept. 21. National
GuanUmen and regulars, 2H.IMHI of them,
in diwt-stained khaki, swung through in
treeia of Kl I'aso and passed the review
ing stand at Fort Bliss to day in the first
parade and review of an mlantry ui
vision of full war strength ever held in
ili I nite.l Statiw. Military men said
also that the number of troop in line
was larger than at any other time in ine
i.i-tnrv of he country with the exception
of the grand review in Washington at
the close of the Civil war.
Tanned by service on the border, the
1 'lecioiis of cavalry, infantry,
artillery and auxiliary marched in an un
broken column nearly 20 mile long. The
troop from Massachusetts and Rhode
Island participated in me narauu mi
view.
PUT IN GUARDHOUSE.
Guardsmen Who Faltered in the 83-Mile
Hike.
San Antonio. Texas, Sept. 21. One
hundred and seventy-four of the piards
men w ho left hist Sat unlay on a march
to Austin dropped out and have returned
to Camp Wilson here. General Funston
hhid lust night. They have been put into
the guardhouse.
1 Funston expressed disappoint
ment that so many men lacked spirit
niniii.1i to make the hike. All ot the 1.4
will be compelled to do the M miles to
Austin, however.
MEETS IN BURLINGTON.
Republican State Convention Assembles
Sept. 28.
Burlington, Sept. 21. The first Repub
lican state convention under the new
primary law will lie held in Burlington
on Thursday, Sept. 28. with Dr. D. C.
of the Republi
can nominees for the office of state sen
ator from Chittenden county, as tempo
rary chairman. This much was decided
at the meeting yesterday afternoon at
the Hotel Vermont of the Republican
state committee, the Republican nomi
nees for the state offices and Senator
Carroll S. Page and Congressman Frank
L. Greene. Tentative plans, including
the formation of a business men's league,
in the interest of Charles K. Hughes, Re
..i,i;,n nominee for nreaident. were out-
I lined for the Republican campaign this
I . . . ...u:..u
fall, the stale convention, mucu, un
der the new law, will consist of the nom.
;o (nr tlm state offices, the nominees
for state scnafcorships and the nominees
for town nprc!8PntanvpH, niuso phti
ittee. so that, althouch it is
very probable that the present eommit
tee'will be re-elected, definite plans cannot
be made known at this time. Stanley
C. Wilson of Chelsea, chairman of the
state committee, presided at the meeting
DnVrt V. Kimonds of St. Johnsbury
was elected chairman of the committee
on resolutions for the state convention.
Tho nrnapnt state committee has in
augurated and maintained a clipping bu
reau and has a considerable suore 01 mm
literature on hand. A complete
list of all town committees is on file and
many other details have been arranged,
so that even if an entirely new commit
tee should be elected, they would find
the fall campaign pretty well organized.
tv, t o t a ..ommittee will probably be
elected at the first session of the con
vention and will at once meet and start
fnr tlio enmnniirn. which will close
with a ten days' whirlwind finish, ending
ths day preceding tne election.
KNIFE WIELDER CONVICTED.
Charlss Gilbert Tried to Carve Carl
Springfield in Burlington.
Burlinston, Sept. 21. Charles Gilbert,
a negroi formerly widely known as
"Poorboy," during the days that the 10th
cavalry was stationed at Fort Ethan Al
len, was found guilty of a breach of the
peace, by a jury in county court yester
day afternoon. Gilbert, who has three
previous convictions against him, was
charged with assault with a dangerous
weapon, the offense being committed on
the night of July 31 at a house on Inter
val avenue, one Carl Springfield, also a
negro, being the victim. Gilbert went to
the house where Springfield was board
ing and after some conversation the men
pot into an altercation and Springfield
attempted to eject Gilbert from the
house, the latter cutting him on the right
arm with a jackknife.
Gilbert was to-day sentenced to three
years in state prison.
C0ASTESS MOBEL WON.
Won the 2:16 at Rochester in Straight
Heats.
Rochester. N. H.. Sept, 21. The racing
program on the second day of the 41st
annual Rochester fair furnished an after
noon of real sport, pleasing thousands
from various section of Xew England.
Maella, from Ed Sunderland's stable,
won the 2:18 class in a six-heat contest.
Aconite took the 2:12 cl in a five-Wat
race, and Woodcliff King made the fast
est heat of this meetinc. also the fastest
one for many year on this track, turn
ing it in 2:001.
Coasters Mbel, from Wo Iter Cox' sta
ble. Dover. X. IU won the 2:16 class in
straight heats.
The 2:1 cla waa a race in every
heat, with W than a length apart. Ma
ella, the winner, finished 11th in the first
heat.
AUTO PARTY
LANDED IN CELLAR
One Girl Sustained Broken Leg and Othet
Injuries and is t Rutland Hospital
Car Wat Wrecked.
Rutland. Sept. 21. Miaa Mary Cot-
tello of Poultney waa scrioiuly In
jured, Frank Reynolds of State
street mibtaineti an injury iu mm
ankle, two young women whose identity
was not dUeloscd, were alightly Ifcjun-d
and Harold Thompson of Summer utreet
waa Udly shaken up when the hitter's
Chandler touring car left the highway at
the corner of lvivcr and Granger street
alsiut it: 13 o'clock at evening and land
ed in an abandoned cellar hole. All were
treated at the Hut land hospital and Mi
Costello is at the institution. The others
left for their homes. The severely in
jured girl was taken to the hospital in
the Ntearna ambulance and the others
followed in Mr. Stearns' aut.
The car was going west and at the
corner of tho two streets the driver failed
to make the turn, it being claimed the
steering apparatus failed to work. The
occupants of the machine were thrown
out. The Costello girl sustained a frac
ture of the left leg and the right leg waa
injured, tine of tha unknown girls was
cut by glass from the broken wind
shield. All of the party were reticent about
giving their names but it was understood
that two of the girls were sisters and
that tho three young women I've in
Poultney. A soon as tjie two young
women and the men had their injuries at
tended to bv Dr. F. II. Gebhardt and Dr.
W. G. Hodsdon. they left the hospital.
The women secured an automobile to
take them to Poultney. 1
The car was Iwdly wrecked, the steer
ing wheel being broken, the headlights
and windshield smashed, the right front
fender bent and the front axle driven
back about 18 indies, Mr. Thompson
was driving the car.
CAR TURNED OVER
ON THREE PEOPLE
Imprisoned Couple and Their Child Had
to Remain Until the Automobile
Was Pulled Off.
Waterbury, Sept. 21. Last evening
Biiick car containing Mr. and Mi. John
Bressctte and young son of Colebrooke,
N. H., on their way to this place to visit
Mrs. Brcssette'g mother, went off the
road near the palisades, turning com
pletely over, ami stopping with the
wheels revolving in the air. The, accident
happened when Mr. Bressctte, in meeting
another car. went too near the edge of
the road and the car dropped about eight
feet. The occupant of the Bressctte car
were pinned beneath it and had to re
main there until Rev. L. C. Carson of
Moiitpelier, an occupant of the auto for
which Mr. Bressctte turned out, got help.
Help was also summoned from Water
nd doctors from here went to the
assistance of the party, who were, for
tunately, not badly nun.
Mrs. 'Bressctte was injured about the
m.l hni'k and was considerably
bruised, and Mr. Bressette was hurt
about the shoulders. He attributes his
injuries as much to bruises received dur
ing the removal of the car as he does
to the overturning of it. The boy was
uninjured.
The party was taken to Waterbury to
the home 'of Mrs. Brcssette's mother,
their original destination, and Mr. Bres
ii.tf, i ahle to be out of doors to-day,
although his wife is feeling considerably
the result of her injuries and tne shock.
VERMONT LOOKS GOOD.
To Boys of Co. C Who Spent Summer at
Eagle Pass.
Burlington, Sept. 21. Seventy men of
C company, 1st Vermont regiment of in
fantry and the attached sanitary troops
of the ermont isanonai uuaro. com
K Koennrl Lieutenant R. P. Bur
rage, U. V. M., '17, arrived yesterday at
Fort Ethan Alle.n from Eagle Pass. Tex.
All of the men, with the exception of
d,., nr fniir nrermratorv school stu
dents, are students at tho University of
Vermont. They were tired aim iraci
stained, having left their border station
last Friday evening, but very nappy ann
full to the brim with stories of their ex
periences. Tiiu rot 11 mod guardsmen will" occupy
the barracks of one of the machine
troops, until they are mustered out ana
just when that will be nobody seems able
nlt Tl,., ftrat information was that
I.U n il! ' "1 n'-v
the men would be allowed to visit their
homes on furlough until the arrival of
41,0 koiauoa r( the Vermont National
Guard troops on Sunday, but it now
. . . ... .1 ...Ml a
seems probable tnai mcy win icuimu .
the fort and be mustered out with the
balance of the regiment.
Discharge from the federal service
merely relieves the militiamen from fur
ther service as government troops, but
leaves them subject to call by the state
until tneir ennsimeni, uiu
tim,i0n hna pvnircd.
Dr. Guv Potter Benton, president of
. - . . -.t 1
the University ot v ernionr, wnn sevcrm
members of the university faculty, ar
rived at the fort soon after the boys de
. on. I r.u t lie Tii hearty welcome
A large number of Burlington people and
many friends of the student soldiers
from neighboring towns also visited the
ost yesterday.
While the ermont guamsmen are u
in the Wst of health and spirits, there
can be no doubt but that they are gen
uinely glad to be home. Most of them
apree that they have had enough of
Texas, and seen enough of Mexico dur
ing the time they guarded the b rder to
last them a lifetime. There were m.oofl
troops entrenched at Eaele Pass, 3no of
whom were reculars. infantry, cavalry
and field artillery and the re-ord of the
Vermont troops was second to none.
MORE FRESHMEN ARRIVE.
There are Now 90 Enrolled at Norwich
University More Applications In.
NorthhVld, Sept- 21. Additions to the
frerhman class of Norwich university
bring the total number .f first year stu
dent actually enrolled up t and in
addition there are IS or ) nvre appii-.-.t-.n.
for admission. The colh-re work
crenel Tuesday eight.
WAS SLAIN
NEAR HOME
Gaspare DiCola of Brook-
line, Mass., Shot Five
Times x
HIS ASSAILANT
HADE ESCAPE
Mrs, DiCola Was with Her
Husband as He Alighted
from a Street Car
Boston. Sent. 21. Gaspare DiCola,
wealthy importer and wholesale fru
dealer, died to-day as the remm
of
wounds inflicted by an unknown man
who shot him five times near his homo in
Brookline last night. There is no trace
of the assailant.
DiCola was shot just after leaving a
street car on his return from a meeting
of Italians in Boston in celebration of
the anniversary of the capture of Rome
bv the Italian army in 1870. His wife
wras with him and she says that two men
1... 1 -i.,M t u-ithiitit. sneakim?
1 RpproKcneu nit-Hi - -1 r,
Hme or -both opened fire.
I - . . 1 . . r it,. Ttulttin
Ililola was presiucni, 01 hit i.
p,t rrn and a prominent- member of
the society of Dante Alighieri.
COUNTY RETURNS CANVASSED.
County Clerk Moody and R. S. Currier
Complete the Work.
Countv Clerk L. C. Moody and R. S.
Currier,' chairman of the Republican
countv committee, who have been can
vassing the Washington county returns
of the recent primary, to-day announced
the result as follows:
Republican Party.
For county senator Frank C. Bancroft
had 2 0S.-i; "Burtrand R. Demeritt had
1 ,V2; Henry F. Hill had 1,VI!; F. E.
vt.1., l,u,l 1 774: seatterim.', 12.
For assistant judges of the county
court, George H. Hale had iwfi ; 1 hsmcs
H. Dana had UC0; Elbcr B. House had
I, 140; scattering, 2.
For sheriff Frank H. Tracy had 2,6.V;
ui-at inrinfr 3.
""For hieh bailiff Arch Batchelder had
31 ; scattering, n.
For state's attorney Fred E. Gleason
had 2.402; scattering, 0.
For judge of probate Frank J. Martin
had 2,541; scattering, 1.
Democratic Party.
For countv henator Timothy E. Calla
han had 734; Arthur W. Hewitt had 710;
r r T?oliiiisini had iJ44: scattering, 2.
For assistant judge of county court
George A. Tilden had tJ8j George 1 Pray
had M2; scattering.
vr .IwrifT- -Dennis Donahue had 623.
For high bailiff lVirman E. B. Kent
had 12 j scattering, 2'..
For state's attorney Harry C. Shurt
IniT tiuit tii;."- acntterinir. 1.
For judgo of probate Frank J. Martin
had 22; scattering, 'l.
Prohibition Party.
Vnr eniintv senator A. W. Hewitt had
1; P. B. Gay lord had 1; S. C. Wheeler
had lj scattering. 1.
For assistant judges of county court
r- P iVihnrn had 1 : J. M. AVallaee had 1
For state's attorney H. C. Shurtleff
had 1.
For probate judge Frank J. Martin
had 141.
Socialist Party.
For county senator J. McWilliums
had 10; Ijince Watson had 7; A. Broggi
had 4; scattering, ..
For assistant judges of county court
J. A. dimming had 0; Harry King had 7
For sheriff S. Mattson had 7; scat
terinir. 1.
For state's attorney David Smith
For judge of probatu James Lawson
had 1.
CHILDREN'S EXHIBIT PLANS.
Preparations Being Completed for In
teresting Demonstration of Progress.
Preparations are going rapidly forward
for the annual exhibit of the school chil
dren of Barre, which is to be opened to
the public Friday evening at :30 o clock
in the Church street school building. Tho
building will be open for exhibits to be
brought any time after 7:30 to-morrow
morning and an early delivery ot same
will aid materially in the work of those
on hand to look after them.
Any girls who have prepared exhibits
of cooking, canning, candy, etc., are re
quested to have them at the Church
street building not later than 1 p. m.
Friday. Anv children between the ages
of six and 19 may exhibit plain sewing,
embroidery, crocheting or tatting made
since the last exhibit, and are especially
invietd to send in such exhibits.
Members of the earning club are re
quested to report to Winifred Smith not
later than noon Friday, while any speci
men of drawing, painting, decoration, de
sign or construction, included under the
designation of fine arts, should be
brought to the place of exhibit not later
than II a. m., or the exhibitors should
report to Mr. Tamperl or Misa Hazel
Lyon.
Poultry ahd their allied exhibits are to
W brought not later than 11 a. m., or
report to E. M. Lyon or Ralph oihver.
Anv work pertaining to the campfire
pirls must W in the hands of tbose in
charge by noon, or report to Miss Eva
Smith. The bov scout will report to
.T. T. Hubbard, Emery Newhall or ll
liam Milne.
Th school for 1PH5-17 that makes the
highest score will receive a league ban
ner, to be Wld for one year and compet
ed for in 1017.
CharW A. Pig arrived in the city
l't evening from AUton, Ma.. to viit
ith his daughters and mother at 13 Kim
etrceU " . . ....
HOARD OF TRADE
VISITED NORTH FIELD
IN DIG TURN-OUT
Sixth Tour Conducted By Barra Organ
isation Waa Largest Attended From
Granite City of Any of Series
Splendid Hospitality Shown.
Northlield. Sept. 21. Nearly 230 people
came from Barre last evening ' on the
sixth better acquaintance tour conducted
by the Barre Board of Trade during tne
summer, and they were joined here by a
large numla-r of Northlield resident and
others from surrounding towns. Nearly
73 automobiles were parked on the com
mon, all of which were from outside of
Northlield. The attendance from narre
was the largest of any tour conducted by
the Board of Trade of that city.
Supper was served ill the armory to
nearly 400 people, and the food a ool
l.u.t.i.l t,t tl,. t'niiiri elnti u-ith the assist
ance of the ladic-s from the various
churches waa pronounced to la- excellent.
Carroll's orchestra from Barre enlivened
the festivities, and at the end of the
supM-r the visitors were welcomed to
Northlield by Hon. Frank Pluiiiley. Be-
pone to the welcome was gien by Rev.
I It l!..ur,lmi of lliirre. Ifev. .1. H. Sar
gent of Northfield hail offered bio-dug
ahd he also sMike briefly on the signili
cance of the get-together.
. . I .
Stereoptieoii views oi iwrre aim um
granite industry were thrown on an out
door screen and were witnessed by a
i i. ,.f M.niJd Tho fimbincd
Itilt- ,(itiiin1iiiK .''". . - -
Barre and Northlield liamla occupied a
fiositioii near the railroad station and
discoursed pleasing music during the
presentation of the views. At the end
..r tin. nietiire exhibition and the band
concert a large number of the visitors
and local people went to the armor),
u .1umi-o uh held from 10 o'clock
till midnight, Carroll's orchestra furnish-
Tim til nl rx eint from the evening's
entertainments are well toward $2ixi, and
the net receipts will be turned to public
use in this community, the exact amount
not being known at the present time.
The get-together was called a great suc
cess in every way.
STEWART GREGORY.
Baire Girl the Bride of Montpelier Young
Man.
4 nroitv meildinff took place at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Jumes E. Gregory
of 185 Washington street last evening,
. ., it.ii:. M
when their daughter, .mis name
r.mri. rai united in marriage to
Charles Stewart of Montpelier by Rev.
. . . t .t. - -ii-.1.1:....
B. ,1. Lipsky, pastor oi me iicumng
Methodist church.
The wedding ceremony was held in the
r,urW hsnoath a canopy of cedar boughs
and pink roses, with "a background of
cedar and hydrangeas, wnnn were --ij
prettily arranged. The couple were at
tended" by Miss Hattie Stevens of Mont-
i;. a,l Miaa firace Newhall of this
city as bridesmaid. Miss Inella Ball of
Barre was the maid ot nonor aim
Mackay, also of this city, stood with the
groom. The double ring service was used,
with Earl Stewart, a brother of the
groom, acting aa the bearer, the bride
being given away by her father.
As the bride came into the room, sup
ported on the arm of her father, Miss
Eileen Parks played strains from a wed
ding march. The" bride was very daint
ly dressed in a gown of white crepe me
teor with cream lace trimming, her veil
being caught with a bunch of orange
blossoms. The maid of honor wore a
very pretty dress of pink crepe de chine,
trimmed with a dainty lace.
fter the ceremony a wedding lunch
wa's served the guests, the bride and
"room taking immediate departure for a
wedding tour through New Hampshire
and Massachusetts. They were the re
cipients of many beautiful presents,
among them cut glass and silver. On
their return from the wedding trip the
couple will live at the home of the groom
on Kim street extension. Montpelier.
The bride until recently was a book
keeper in the Massachusetts Mutual Life
Ins. Co., while the groom is a well known
Montpelier young man, being engaged in
the fruit a'nd hsh businscs.
A. MALNATI & CO. MUST PAY.
Verdict Against It for $03.07 Returned
in County Court.
The jury in the case of I.ippcncott vs.
. Malnati & Co., returned a verdict late
yesterday afternoon in Washington coun
ty court for the. plaintiff to nuver
S!)3.07. The plaintiff sued to recover the
difference between the contract price for
a soda fountain sold by them to the de
fendant and not accepted and the amount
derived from its sale to other parties.
ti., -iWo.l Hint, the fountain was built
especially for the defendant, and conse
quently could not oc boiu iui hb ...,...
when the defendant refused to unload
it from the car after its arrival at Ilarre.
if... I I. ,..!! r.. i, resented the plaintiff
and Theriault & Hunt appeared for the
defendant.
Court was to-day occupied with the
case of Hattie M. Gordon vs. Peter
Badord, trespass, the defendant setiking
. . ...i.i;i, l,; nluim in a narcel of land
lu rsiauuoii mr v....... i
on State street, Montpelier. The plaintiff
resides in the Dewey nouse ana me e
fendant owns the adjoining property. The
principal witness for the plaintiff, who
. ti.; f,.rciiin. was Engineer B. M.
irnii lino , -
Hayward and the defendants principal
witness is Engineer I'ewari oi j'uiiiiiji-
v.arit- all of the testimony is of
a technical nature and each side has in
troduced a number of deeds in an endeav
or to prove its title to the contested land.
.John W. Gordon ot narre is attorney jur
the nlaintiff and Harry C. Shurtleff rep
resents the defendant.
The jury hearing the case is composed
of J. H. Smaill of Fayston, Charles Bul
lock of Marshtield. II. W. Davis of Xorth-
field. F. B. Kendall of Roxbury, Walter
Woii- nf Plaintield. R. H. Downer of
Waitsfield. W. H. Angcll of Woodbury,
W t ' f a n n f Waitstield. .1. E. Bingham
of Northfield, Milton Gline of Berlin,
Alvah Butler of Duxbury and v . t
Stone of Cabot..
Mrs. Walter Irish Critically HL
Wi
"terbury. Sept. 21. Word receive.!
f.n',;i. kr frnm Mrs. Walter
ill at Itraton hopit. Montpel-r.
is verv discouraging, her condition being
crituaL
PRICE. ONE CENT.
HUSTIS HEAD
OF LOCAL LINES
Boston & Maine's President
Also Leads Two Aux
iliary Roads
BARRE & CHELSEA
ELECTION IN BARRE
Montpelier & Wells River
Election Held in
Montpelier
This forenoon at 10:30 o' .he an
nual meeting of the Barr' clsea rail
road was held in the ' ''' business
ollice over the sta jS . Depot square.
Mcmhera of the . f A board came to
Barre from th v0 .al, where the annual
meeting of th; .ontpelier A Well River
railroal was held earlier in the forenoon.
The business meeting here and the clos
ing of the road's fiscal year occupied but
a few moments, the officers returning to
Montpelier at 10:52 over the M. & W. R.
road.
Following are the officers of the Barrn
4 Chelsea railroad, each officeholder hav
ing liccn re-elected: President, James If.
Hustis of Boston; vice-president, H. E.
Fulsoin of Lyndonville; clerk ami treas
urer, .lohn (!. Farwell of Montpelier; di
rectors, .1. H. Hustis, W. J. Hobbs of Bos
ton, H. K. Fulsom, W. B. C. Stickney of
Rutland and .fames W. Brock of Mont
pelier. The same official slate is to
head the affairs of the M. A W. R. rail
road in lClfi-1017, their re-elections hav
ing lieen ratified at the annual meeting
in Montpelier.
NEW DIRECTORS ELECTED
By Connecticut River R. R. Stockholders
Under Vermont Leadership.
Springfield. Mass., Sept. 21. The Con
necticut River railroad stockholders' pro
tective committee, headed by Director
Richard Billings of Woodstock. Vt., put
through its entire slate in the election of
directors at the annual stockholders'
meeting here yesterday afternoon. The
opposition slate of the old board was de
feated, Mr. Billings casting 19,000 of the
24,000 votes.
Four new directors were elected. They
are J. II. Williams of Walpole, N. H.,
Henry P. Binney of Boston, Francis R.
Hart," vice-president of the Old Colony
Trust company, and William H. Brooks
of Hoi voke. Richard Olney of Boston
and Charles K. Gross of Hartford, Conn.,
of the old board were displaced. Henry
W. Keves of North Haverhill, N. H., and
E. P. Kendrick of this city resigned from
the old board for causes other than those,
connected with the issue involved. Tho
remaining members of the old board, in
cluding President William H. Medintoek
of this city, were, re-elected without op
position. The directors have not yet n't
for election of officers.
The new board of directors is said to
look favorably on the proposiiton of en
tering the reorganized Boston & Maine a
an integral part of the system. Director
Billings lias fought for some time for iv
compromise solution of the differences
between the two roads. His committee,
is understood to favor such a course in
the organization of the Boston & Maine
system now being considered.
MRS. ANNABELLA MACD0NALD.
Barre Woman Died at Fanny Allen Hos
pital, Winooski.
Mrs. Annabel! MacDonald of Thomp
son placj passed inviy .it the Fanny
Allen hospital in Winooski park on
Wednesday, the end following an opera
tion to which she submitted a week ago.
Mrs. MacDonald hud been in declining
health for some time. The remains were
brought to Barre over the Central Ver
mont railroad last evening at 7 o'clock.
Funeral services will be held in tho
First Presbvteriau church Saturday aft
ernoon at 2 o'clock, the pastor, Rev.
Edgar Crossland, officiating. Previously
there will be prayer service at tho
house at 1:"0 o'clock. Interment is to
be made in Hope cemetery.
The deceased is survived by four
daughters, Mrs. Marion Binden of Bos
ton, Mrs. William T. Calder of Barre,
Mrs. Maggie Higgins of Kansas City, Mo.,
and Miss Lena MacDonald of this city.
Her son, George MacDonald, lives in
Boston. She also leaves two sisters.
Mrs. Fanny Buchanan and Mrs. Kato
Duffield of Bury, P. and two brothers,
Colin Morrison and Donald Morrison of
Bury, P. Q.
Mrs. MacDonald was born Annabella,
Morrison in Bury April 13, 1830. Her
first husband. John McDonald, died
years ago. and her second husband, An
'"us MacDonald. passed away in 1W.
Mrs. MacDonald came to Barre in 1S0I.
She was a member of Queen of th
Forest circle, an auxiliary of the Forest
ers, and was held in high esteem by
many friends.
MRS. CORDINER'S FUNERAL
Was Held at Church of the Good Shep
herd. The funeral of Mrs. Barbara. A. Cnrdi
ncr of Hill street, whose death late Sun
day afternoon followed a brief illness,
nas held in the Church of the Good Shep
herd Wednesday afternoon at 2:30
o'clock. Rev. W. J. M. Reattie, the rec
tor, officiating. Preceding the church
services, prayers were offered at tho
house. The bearers were: Clayton Jones,
a son-in law of the diseased. Alex Cor
dincr and James Cordiner. nephews, an!
Clarence Blakie. There were many flor-
... I....n,.,nt waa ml in t V. A
al trinu". n... .... ...
family l"t m Mm wood cemetery.
Those attending the funeral from out
of the city were: wunam Alexander oi
Montreal, a lnlier ot .Mrs. loramer,
Mr, tlarrnre Bn-kford of Wondvill, V
H.. a niece, and Mrs. Frank Brown anil
Ma Abu LUmcgton of BurlirgVoa.
