ARIZONA SENTINEL
FIRST IN ADVERTISING FIRST IN NEWS FIRST IN INFLUENCE
Setting a Pace for Competitors Forging Ahead to Greater Things Over Roads of Its Own Making
VOLUME 47
YUMA, ARIZONA, THURSDAY, SEPT. 21, 1915.
NUMBER 42.
Ex
overnor
Kb
ey Is Visitin
Yuma
msiiw iini
PUIS
Former Governor J. H.
Kibbey, Republican candi
date for United States sena
tor, will be the principal
speaker at the monster politi
cal rally this evening at the
Yuma Theater. Judge Kibbey
is, perhaps, Arizona's fore
most exponent of the funda
mental principles of true De
mocracy. He brings a mes
sage of force and eloquence
an honest and straightfor
ward declaration of the con
structive Republican plat
form. Joe V. Prochaska, Gila county's
candidate for secretary of state, who
is one of Arizona's" most efficient bus
inessmen, will also address the meet
ing. Mr. Prochaska is pledged to give
this important state office an effi'
cient and businesslike administration
Judge Otis J. Baughn, superior judge
of Pima county, who aspires to a po
sition on the supreme bench, and is
one of the state's most noted orators,
will explain to the voters of Yuma
how the present supreme court is tech
nically violating the statutes. Judge
Baughn is urging the. voters of Ari
zona to make this higher judicial office
strictly nonpartisan as the laws de
mand.
J. H. Cloonan, Republican candidate
for state corporation- (Commissioner,
who is well known locally, will give
those in attendance some highly in
teresting information regarding the
corporation commission and explain
up to you to say whether or not you I LUC Ui yiuveu aumty
want the plant at those figures, or,should be elected t0 that bod'-
! whether you will insist that the cor-1 Norman J. McKenzie, the only real
peration oommission shall be appealed miner, with over 25 years continuous
to and asked to take charge of the experience in mine operations, will
plant, put it in the hands of a receiver enlighten the voters regarding many
and try to make the rotten old plant I vital angles of this important posi
give some semblance of service for tion- He will explain why the job
the monev it is takine out of vour requires the trained services of a thor-
(Special to the Daily Examiner.) Company, by Robert E. Tally, and
GLOBE, AriZ., Sept. 22. Sloping Methods of Miami Copper
A serious gasoline shortage, byvld R Scott- . ,
ja. t -p- i p Tomorrow the engineers will leave
On the Pacific COaSt, the ef-!Globe in a fleet of lOO automobiles
feet of which would extend . for a day's tour of the Apache trail and
throughout the entire COUn-Jan inspection of the Roosevelt dam,
try during the next year was'pr0bably the neatest engineering feat
j-j u , j , . i of its kind in the world. The trip
predicted here today during be resumed by special train at
the Closing Sessions Of the Phoenix tomorrow night, and Sunday
1 13th meeting of the Ameri-wiu be sPent &t Grand canyon,
can Institute of Mining Engi-I Since its start from New York city
mooto oooQmk1 ; A u" oc'lculutil J- eastern pariy
T0' '""r " rtluim has visited practically every important
TnrOUgnOUt tniS WeeK. mining center of the Southwest.
W. R. Hamilton of San Francisco
presented the gasiling industry data
to the engineers. According to Mr.
Hamilton the only possible means of
uwijooiug eaounue piuuuuuuu are Dy
acJ-sed production of - either ligit
oila(r casing-head gasoline, lowering
the grade of market gasoline, or by,
successful innovations in refining
methods. Most of these solutions Mr.
Hamilton explained as impracticable
m tne immediate future, although
stating that, by lowering the grade,
production could be increased 30 to 50
per cent. He attributed the future gas
oline shortage to decreased produc
tion of refinable oil (the decrease
amounting to 6,000,000 barrels in
1915), steadily increasing iconsumjx
tion, the discontinuation of imports
and the heavy exports due to the war
demands.
During the course of today's meet
ing the mining engineers heard the
aiuc i j i i;iiciiiinLi t lw Li irr uudi iiiiuuit.
amci mail, ucuau&c ui ltu ueamis
rflllllllllK ill lllH lllfctl ncr. 1L in nam
hat this discovery will greatly help to
o tne consumer.
Other noteworthy papers to be pre-
ented were Mine Fire Methods Em-
1 J t iT TTtnJ -TA. Pinnx
YUMA'S WATER ID
LIGHT PROBLEM
(By B. F. FLY.)
Taxpayers of Yuma, how much are
you willing to pay for the Electric,
Gas & Water plant? Are vou willine
j to pay $119,000? In order to put it
I squarely up to you your City Council
has obtained a 90-day option to buy
the plant at approximately those fig
ures $119,000 to $125,000. It is now
HE SILHOUETTE OF THE HOUR
NEW YORK, Sept. 2 ( .From the
earlier Paris openings, many ship
ments of suits and gowns have already
come to New York, making it quite
clear to see what the general trend of
the fashions is to be.
The silhouette has not undergone
pockets.
Just how much the plant is worth
is only a matter of guess. That it is
worth anything like $119,000 or $125,-
is too ridiculous to even think about.
About the only thing about the com
bined plant that is worth having at
any price is the copper wire system
that stretches all over the city, and
possibly the gas plant Everything
else connected with it is a lot of old
rotten junk. Its water mains are rot
ten from end to end. There isn't a day
but what some one of our streets is
(Continued on Page Three)
oughly experienced miner.
f I :il
I
have given up everything that savors
of exaggeration. Having realized that
the extreme shortness of the skirts
was too exaggerated, she has ordained
that skirts shall be longer. The aver
age length of the skirt today is about
six inches from the floor.. There are
some Paris houses which have gone
to the other extreme, however, and
have made dresses with skirts that
reach the floor but the majority of.
them have struck a happy medium,
and it is not at all likely that the davs
of trailing skirts will come back again.
rne straight Lines of the New Sil
houette
any revolutionary change. There is a
quiet dignity and simplicity about the
styles, in which we notice that Fash
ion has taken Moderation to be her
watchword. At least for a while who
can say for how long. she seems to
YUMA LOCAL AND PER
Married Mr. Carl J. Prade and
Miss Frances Severance of Seattle,
King County, Wash., by Rev. J. H.
Smith, at the Valley Baptist Church
parsonage today at 11 o'clock. Their
home will be at Seattle.
Airs. Jack Devine is home from an
extended visit on the coast.
The temperature at 5 o'clock last
evening was 96, humidity 31. Maxi
mum 102, minimum 72.
Yuma citizens in autos should watch
the corners. Since the January flood
when the Main street guide posts was
washed away, much carelessness is
turning "right" corners is noted.
Yuma sick folks who had occasion
to need lights after midnight this
morning found the power off and a
rustling for candles was observed.
What some of the Yuma folks said
because the fans were still, would not
look well in print.
The Methodist Ladies' Aid have elec
ted the following officers for the com
ing year: Mrs. S. D. McVay, presi
dent; Mrs. A. J. Howie, vice pfesideat;
Mrs. F. Rich, secretary; Mrs. O. H.
Clayton, treasurer.
