DAILY EDITION
VOL. VII., No. . t i,
GRANTS PARS, JOSEPHINE COUNTf, OREOOX, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1016
WHOLE NUMBER 1880.
!rr th'cp Town in ;tho World the Size of Grant Pass Has a Paper With Pull Leased Wi re Telegraph Service.
GUESTSFRORfl
PORTLAND
PLEASED
Many Expressions of Approval
for Rogue Valley Heard al
Reception Tendered by R.
B. Miller Last Night
Tho reception tendered by II. II.
Miller and his associates Wednesday
evening was a most fitting close to
day of pleasant commingling between jtwo Jail doors and when the tire do
the' delegation of Portland business psrtment attacked the crowd with
men and local cltliene: The guests I,,rw,ra of w,tcr the ,orce! lho r,re'
.... ... ... ,: men to retreat at gun polnta.
were ntertalned upon tho beautiful 8fUln), ,)udlpV( tho mob hnrrM
Uwn at the club house, about a hun- nlm to wtltng motor cars, threw a
dred being present. Luncheon was rope around his neck, sped a quarter
erred and the evening spent In mak-ot a mile to the Frisco depot and
tng the acquaintance of the visitors. j h,ni lo lcloinon fcl
.,... ... J Dudley, an ex-convlct and a white
With Mr. Miller In the position of man w convfUd of flrlt dtgree
roaster of ceremonies, which ponUlon ml,rder whlch CBrrle, wltB ,t t Mn.
he graced most admirably, a number t)nce of fe lmpr.onment. K,ai
or try visitors from out-of-town snddoPi , ,nfllct caplu, punahment.
of local townspeople were called upon ,
for brief addresses. John F. Carroll,
publisher of the Evening Telegram,
first voiced the spirit of good will for
the Rose Cltyltes, and said that they
appreciated fully the entertainment
that had been accorded them. "We
of the metropolis of the state have
com to one of the smaller cities for
Inspiration, for" here ts a community
that ts loins riant ahead dolnir tWnss
... ., ... .
rniie otner communities are wbh-i
lng," Other speakers who voiced the
ill sa, 'mri niivHaria miw vivm tn
r ,.. . h. th.v
.a in .nnyrn nn.:
simi Prru sis "',. w,p.,
and who besnok a closer relationship:
tM.i.M.n.t.onrttM.oftho.tat.i,nBI weon ana 106 "
' , , ., .
were Kmery Olmstead. vlce-pres dent
. . . .i 1 v -1..
of the Northwestern Nations! bank
, LMMi n . .v
Addison nennctt, of the Oregonlan,
and Julius h.i Meier, of the Meier &
r rniin ciimwii7. rfuiint- uhj iu.uv
m W T.J.a mAA
one of his characteristic addresses,
.I-- ..ll.f.nHnn !. Ih. Aim.
17111 1 aniiiK .mini Ri viuii ... u.c
... , , , ,.,
trlct was progress ng In material
. . . .....
wars, and wh 0 he made no definite
promises as to the plans of his com
Continued on Page 3.
PUBLICITY
AN
jopen up at Ilaltlmore (or the first
Chicago, Sept. 31. Many promln- time In a counter-attack upon Repub
nt Chicago men and women are ,ut-n Candidate Hughes on the elght
breathlng easier today than thoy have hour Issue.
for some weeks, following the con -
nscatlon of a card Index case whereby
tho blackmailers, some of whom are
.n..mi.n.i n 1m iinrinr nrroMt horn.
,
Kepi iraca 01 moir victims. jngain wun appeals rrom ernes bcck
"At leaBt twenty names were listed, ing a place among the chosen few.
nnd opposite each was a note o( some iieforo accepting any of the lnvlta
nilsconduct which the syndicate hoped tlona before him, the president Is
to use (or extortion," said a detective making a careful study of the nature
hore todoy who workod on tho case..' 0f the organisations before which he
"All thoso listed were ot prom- has been asked to speak. Anything
Inonco financially and socially here, that savors of a partisan meeting ts
But tho names will not be given out," discarded,
ho said.
Evidence of tho syndicate's opera-
tlons continues to pile up here. A 1
woalthy machinery manufacturer Is. .
known to have becomo infatuated San Frnnclsco, iScpt. 21. Intro
wlth a woman In a cafo, As the ductlon of testimony In the trial of
romance waned, the woman told him Warren K. Billings, charged., with
nh wan 111 and suRKostod he send bar murder In tho preparedness parade
to tho mountains and " give her bomb explosion, was completed at
1100,000. (noon today, when the prosecution fln-
' "It you do not seo the Justloo of lulled Its rebuttal cane. The defense
this, perhaps your wife will," she rested Its case "earlier tit the morn
wroto him In answer to his objoctlons.'ing. Prosecutor Flckert will begin
llo had the woman shadowed In New his argument for the state this after
York and forced her to sign a state- noon. . '
ment that she hnd lied and absolving Several witnesses were called by
him from further pnymonts. the state to bulwark the testimony of
Another woman hired out as a John McDonald, the prosecution's
stenographer and after several rounds star witness, who testified that he saw
ot cafes and roral houses demanded Billings' deposit a suitcase, supposed
flJ.OOO. iBut she did not get It when ly containing the fatal bomb, atfltew-
0 toctlvo expound her game. , art and Markit streets.
MURDERER IS
LYHCHE0 Iff 1,1
TO INGE CUE
Olathe, Km., Sept. 21. Storming
tho jail, fifty armed mtn early today
lynched Burt Dudley, avenging the
brutal murder of Mr. and Mr, Honry
Mueller, (or which he was convicted
Tuesday.
The mob aroused 8hcrlff Carroll
about midnight and demanded that
Dudley be released to them, lie re
fused. "Better let us have him,'" aald the
mob leader, "we are prepared to take
him." ' ' '
The men cut loose with a volley of
shots and the officer yielded. But
Mrs. Carroll had fled In the mean
time with the Jail keys. Determined
to get their man, the mob battered In
WILSON TO SPEAK
TO
Asbury Park, N. J., Sept. 21.
GRAIN
DEALERS
.-- Ti" ,B 10 nmgion ana Mex-
firatnr I ni irr a nra let M afiall hv flhan'l. ...1 1 w . . .. ...
ttjpmocrats lo Prcsldont Wilson s ao
. . . . . . 1
drees next Mondsy afternoon before
. . , . 4 t I
lue "" WB UC11'"
11011 Baltimore.
,Mft I.I UA -
. 1 . """". '
corded his speech, they believe, will
. . , ' . ...
1 havo strong nfluence In two of the
; . , "... . . .
most Importsnt voting strongholds of
I
i C0U f' ' . . ,
I Tha vrafn flualur. .pa lit Intlmttfa
; touch with the farmers.,' They also
are among the foremost shippers of
, , , . .. .
' the country, who, the railroads say,
' ' . . . . .
iwl I "have to pay the, (re ghf u a
1 ... . K. . .....
result ot President Wilson (orcing
j the eight-hour' "legislation through
icongress.
j 'Appreciating the Importance of the
1 address, the president already has be
l gun work on It. It is likely to show
j what the administration has done and
proposes to do (or business and what
1 It has done (or the farmer.
I ITt. K...M.... I. .I.a n.nnnlnj ,n
i sinco tho news has gone forth that
ih nrinlilent will acnent several west-
rn speaking Invitations, the offices
t.... ... ii...n ..mnot
I
COMPLETE TAKING OF
mfjLIXGH CASE TESTIMONY
UiHEUlSWIN
COtlflEVIfSSIQN AND LOSE IN
AGREES HI -
Reach Tentative Plan by
WPershing'sMenWai
Remain Where They Are
for the Time Being j
New London, Conn., Sept 21. The
Alexloan-Amerlcaa commission has
about finished Its first task that of
settling the problem or border patrol.
A tentative program for border pa
trol waa today practically completed.
It provides that General Pershing's
forces shall remain where they are
(or the present. There Is an addl
Uonal proviso by which the Carrania
forces will take over a liberal share
of the work of protecting the border.
but Its exact form baa not been re
vealed. v
The United Press received positive
i assurances 10114 that the plan con
tains no recommendation (or an im
mediate withdrawal.
"The situation remains as It Is (or
the present," It was stated.
The entire plan Is being submitted
to General Dllss (or his approval.
Some revamping (or military reasons
may suggesntself to Bliss. It is pos
sible the whole plan will be in shape
I by Saturday, but more probably it
w ill require another week before ti
Ico City for approval.
if the scheme
aucceeds and Car-
ransa forces are (ound adequate, then
.withdraws! of American troops
troops Will
......
accompusnea inter.
Villa's activities around
Chihua
hua will not vitally affect the situa
tion.
COPPER STOCKS 8TRO.NG
IX XEW YORK MARKET
New York, Sept. 21. U. S. Steel
Common sold at 109, Up 1 and a
new high record, shortly before the
close ot the stock exchange this after
noon. Coppers were strong and the
general lists were Arm at the close,
SYfJPATHETlC STRIKE Iffl BE
CALLED IN N.Y. BY LABOR LEADERS
New York. Sept. 21. -New York's
protracted traction strike situation
'approached a crisis today. The last
. .... .
lany w nicn moor ifHueio duvb Biiuncu
1 the officials of the traction com-'
panics to accept the proposals ot
Mayor Mltchol (or (urther negotta- President Gompers of the A,merl
tlons was ushered In with Increasing 'can Federation ot Labor has not come
violence, and with no sign ot waver -
lng by either side.
Unless their demands
met,
are
union organisers are prepared to call
tomorrow for the greatest walkout In j honorable adjustment of this horrible Ernest Bohm, secretary of the Cen
the history ot the city, a sympathetic situation. I want to bring about an tral Federated union, declared that
strike of BOO.000 union workers. ' early settlement and I will do all in 'as a "last resort" a general sym-
Prosldent Shonts ot the Interbor- my power to aid the carmen." pathetic strike of all trades and .ln-
nugh announced today that tho posl- The citizens' committee of 75 will ustrles will be called.
Hon of the company "will not be al-jcoufer with the mayor and Oscar Tho strikers are said to have en
tered under any circumstances." jStrnus, chairman of the public ser-illsted 10,000 women pickets, who will
Organizer Fitzgerald declared that j vice comWsslon. at 3 o'clock today, attempt to urge union men and wo
unless the carmen's grievances are in a last effort to bring about a settle- men not to ride on the transit lines
adjusted a "general strike will eVr-jment of some sort. First, they will of the city.
talnly bo called Friday." ihear the side of the carmen, present-1 Service was again normal on the
Crowds of strikers nnd sym-,ed by Organiser FlUgerald at a con-subway and elevated lines, and more
pathleers are growing more hard to.forence which Gorupers will attond. 1 surface cars than usual were running
handle as the crisis In the situation J The mayor, the police department and 'early today.
draws near. Five hundred strikers ; city officials are now working along Over ascore of violent outbreaks
and their sympathisers engaged In a tWo definite lines. One to prevent arly today were reported to police
running battle with the police In rioting, the othfr to secure postpone-j headquarters and two men, arrested
Central Park west last night, In the ment o( the effort to call a general (or violence, were charged with felony
worst outbreak since the strlko be- strike. and face long prison sentences,
gan, ' A police captain was knocked Meanwhile, In secret conferences, For the second time subway trains
iinconsftlous and an aged woman serl
ously hurt. The police department
Battle in the Balkans Re
sults in Shifting Fortupes,
With No Decisive Engage
ments fa Last Few Honrs
-London, Sept. 21. -Halted in his
invasion of eastern Roumanla, Field
Marshal tod Mackensen has shifted
his attack and la attempting to carry
tho war Into King Ferdinand's coun
try by a stroke from the northwest
Tho German war office this after
noon announced that the Austro-
Germans have won victories on both
sides of the Vulcan mountain pass,
one of the gateways on the Rouman
ian northwestern (rontler, after driv
ing the Roumanians back 10 miles.
The Roumanian war office admitted
a retreat In this region, tut declared
the Roumanians have halted and are j
defending themselves behind a new
fortified line.
The Bulgarian war office today ad
mitted the defeat of German and Bul
garian attempts to penetrate the new
Russo-Rouuianlan (ront In the Dob
rudja. The Roumanian war office not
rnly reported the repulse ot all Teu
tonic attacks, but declared that the
Russians and Roumanians are' now
attcklng-on the whole, front.
In Macedonia fierce Bulgarian
counter-attacks have held up the pro
gress ot the allied left wing, except
at the extreme northwestern corner
of Greece, where the French reported
a three-mile advance.
Some progress was made by the
British on the Somme (ront last
night, but bad weather hindered. op
erations on both sides. The principal
fighting on the western (ront occurred
northeast ot, Verdun, where the
French carried German trenches and
advanced 100 yards at one point.
Heavy fighting continued yesterday
along the Russian (ront, hut there
.was no change in the general sltua-
tion, except In the Carpathians, where
the Slavs captured a German position.
today
neys
united
office
with the distrtct attor
and the magistrates'
cmna !n determined effort to stamp
out rioting. Long term sentences
have been threatened and more than
a score now race terms from, nve to
, 1 .
twenty years.
1 out flatly In favor of the sympathetic
strike, for which other leaders are
uireporlug today. He said:
, . am trying to help arrange an
- the union leaders are laying their
plans for the sympathetic walkout of
II
F
IHFAltTflY PASS
El Paso, Sept. 21. In -a column
twenty miles In , length, national
guardsmen and regular'' soldiers
marched through the city and passed
tho reviewing stand at Fort Bliss (or
seven hours today In the biggest In
fantry division review ever held In
tbia country. More than twenty-six
thousand men, marching (our abreast.
comprised tho column. Every regi
ment baa been filled to (all war
strength by combining organisations,
and every branch of Infantry la a
division waa represented.
In the reviewing stand were Major
General Charles 1C. Clement, General
George Sell, Jr.', and their staffs.
From early morning until after
noon the lines swung steadily
through, the streets of El Paso and
si miles beyond the city to the re
viewing stands at Fort Bliss, to the
music of thirteen bands. For hours
a solid line of the famous four-point-seven
artillery lumbered through the
crowds. Then followed engineers,
sanitary trains and signal corps, all
with full war equipment. There were
a thousand wagons and motor trucks
and 8,000 horses and mules in the
parade. At noon the lines halted
while the men at their lunches by the
roadside.
In making up the division, one
brigade of Massachusetts and Michi
gan state troops were need, one
brigade of Kentucky and South Caro
lina and one brigade ot 'Pennsylvania
and Ohio guardsmen. The remain
der of the division was composed of
tegnlara." - - " -" -'-r ' '
BRAVES PREPARE FOR
WORLD SERIES GAMES
Boston, Sept. 21. Although the
Braves have been running In third
place, with only an outside chance
of capturing the National league pen
nant, the? have made preparations
tor the world's series. About' a
month ago the Braves club announced
that "whoevr got In first with their
cash would be taken care of first on
the post-series games. 'f
Thousands of dollar piled Into the
Boston National league offices from
the (ana who did not want to be left.
Should the Braves (ail to cop the
pennant, the money is to be returned
to the would-be world's series spec
tators. CXCLE SAM WORKING DAY
AND XIGHT OX SMALL CHANGE
San Francisco, Sept. 21. The
scarcity of small change has become
so prevalent that Uncle Sam is work
ing day and night to supply the ne
cessary pennies, 'nickels and dimes.
The San Francisco mint Is now work
ing three eight-hour shifts, Instead
of one, as heretofore,' in the manu
facture of minor coins.
union workers throughout .the city.
While the police several days ago
were Inclined to doubt Fitzgerald's
power to call out these workers, state-
ments from union heads today tend
ed strongly to show that at least-some
i of them would support the carmen.
.were stoned today. 8everal persons
.were Injured by flylnjr glass.
II S
REVIEWII1G STJUID
BECilE A
SHIPPER
Dr. ReJdy Purchases a Half
Interest fa Copper Eagb
NearGalice, ad Wag:a
Road Has Been Ccr:!ct:i
Another producing mine was added
to the southern Oregon district to
day when a wagon road was com
pleted to the Copper Eagle on Pea
vine mountain, near Galloe. Imme
diate hauling of the ore was started
and will continue as long aa poesltle.
aa several thousand tons of ore aro
on the dump and the demand for this
ore Is very great The mineral Is
being shipped to the Tacoma smel
ter, where it Is needed hecause of tho
large per cent ot silica contained and
which la necessary in the converter
process at the smelter.
A half Interest in this mine was
recently purchased by Or. J. F
Reddy, who Is interested In several
mines In this neighborhood. Dr.
Reddy states that the new mine la de
stined to become one of the largest
producer In this part of the country-
MR. BRYAN SPEAKS,
BUT NOT FOR WILS05
Missoula, Mont, Sept. 21. Wm. 7. -Bryan
la to speak In Missoula next
Sunday, It was announced today, bat
he is not campaigning (or President
Wilson, at least during his stay here.
He has chosen the topic, "The First
Commandment" "
SPROULE TELLS OF
Portland, , Sept. 21. Lumbermen
and other northwestern shippers testi
fied today In the Oregon public service
commission's investigation into the.
freight car famine.
Charles MoGowan, manager ot the
Ewauna Box company, of Klamath.
Falls, In his evidence asserted the
California Pine Box Shook company
waa able to get can and make de
liveries when he could not do so nnd
their plant In Klamath Falls, with a
production half as large as his, la
given tully as many cars.
Wm. Sproule, president of the
Southern Pacific, was an Important
witness in the opening hearing. He
promised relief and asserted shippers
conld help lessen the car shortage by
not taking so long to load trains.
AT ROUND-UP
IN PEHOLETOII
Pendleton, Sept. 21.- Pendleton's
Round-Up opened with a bang today.
Hours before the bronco-busting be
gan a crowd of perhaps 60,000
swarmed around the huge arena.' The
whole town Is like a great camp.
Folks who came In autornqblles slept
In them also.
"Hot dog" venders reaped a har
vest Cow punchers, girls In (rontler re
galia, and noble red men In sketchy
attire mingled with throngs of sight
seers. ' A Red Cross fluttering (rom a
pavilion In the grounds furnished the
grim reminder ot what some of tho
outlaw horses might do to their
would-be riders botore night.
SHORTAGE
60,000
; 1
1
