wmmmmmmm
WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and probably to-morrow;
little change of temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 8s : lowest, 69.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pate 10.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 337.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 2, 1916. Copyright, I9U, b thr Hun Printing and iifchVif..., X.oo.nio.
ONE CENT
In lirestrr New York.
Jersey City and Newark.
i KLrwhere
I TWO CUNTS.
UllflHES PiVftRRlM- DARLINGTON TOO
iiuuiiuu i n . v
FEDERAL ACTION
FOR SUFFRAGE
Nominee Out Unqualifiedly
for Amendment to Kn
francliise Women.
J1EPMKS TO QUERY
BY UTAH SENATOR
Cheered Later by 700 Equal
Rights Advocates in
Speech at Atttor.
FEARS FOR FUTURE
IF U. S. DENIES VOTE
"Question Should Be Set
tled Promptly," He Says,
'for Entire Count it."
Charles K. Hughes came out ungual!-
fltdly y-'sterday In favor of a Federal
. .. .
amendment giving votes to women, in
Ms speech of acceptance at Carnegie
HjII. Monday night, he had declared his
liellef In suffrage, but gave no Indica
tion whether he thought the franchise '
should le granted through national or ,
State action.
A nlxht telcsr.itn from Senator
Georce Sutherland nf t'tah. one of the
suffragist States, yeaterday gave the !
nominee an opportunity to make hie
position clear. Mr. Sutherland pointed
out that the Heimbllran pint form con
tained nothing which should prevent a
declaration and told of the lntrnsc In
terest taken by women voters In re-
spect to his attitude.
Mr. Hughes, In his reply to Senator
Sutherland's me.ase, said:
"My view Is that the proposed ameid
tr.fit should be submitted r.nd ratified."
The Republican nominee for the Pres
idency ued almort the same words when
he iiddrcised u company of "00 women
who atlended a reception given for him
"""
nd Mrs. HughuH at the. Astor
few
hours later. The women rose nnd
chfcred, evcr.il who for year hne
besn active In le.idlnz the flshtt for uf
(rise In this Sta'; leading In the dem
enttratlon. better to Senator llt lierllind. .
The tumilneaV lj"tcr to Senator Su'.h
er'.i i ! was as follows:
"Hotbi. Astor, Nkw York Oitt.
"Aurtust i. line.
Mr 1)i:ar ?ckato: Your telegram
rss Ikcii te("lvd. In my an'-vcr to the
re' tlcM.on I d d not refer to tho pro
n (! F-deral ani'ndinent relating to
""in'a suffrage, as th" wa not men
ti -cd In the platform. 1 have no ob-
tl"n, however, to statins my personal
t .. s I said In my speech. I think
' 'o . e mott desirable that the ques-
of ".oman suffrage should be settled
.r rr rt The question Is of such a na-
fire .ha' it ihould be settled for the
t ! -e tountry.
"!h view- Is that 'he tironord amend-
ri-n - oi-'d tie submitted and ritrted
a Hie sulilrct removed from political
!i., i. ,011. Very sincerely your.
ChaIU.es k. mi-oiiks.
v '"e follow lug Is tlie text of the m?s
rue 'i .m Se, later Sutherland
Salt Lake Crrr. July Si. IMC
"Ji rhailcH K. Hughes.
'Ift Astor, New Yorl: Clt.
"V hi will no doubt recall our comer
Mlioii h few days ago when I uigeu ou
ini'is public your views wiui rruaru
.', Ar... . I ,,fef.A .Vrteritl umelidnient. I
1 ff'l ipi'.te sure there Is nothing in the
1'nuh't. an platform which In any man-
r 'c,ulrt c nlllet with such a declara-
o:t, Th it platform commits the party
i.io nrliicli'le of woman suffrage and
recoaiilzes the right of lacli Mate 10 ae
tcrmine the question for Itself. It Is
merit upon the subject or tne consiuu
t.nnul Hinendment, and thercforo leaves
turybod) of the party free to deter
mine f r himself this question.
"The nibnilsslontof the intendment Is
it' .red b many Million of voters, and ,
i ui.uk tne nay nas come wnen i.oiigreps
luuld recognize this widespread desire
i adopting the resolution of submls
!on and thus enabling the Slates to pars
ion the question, which, without the pre
I miliary nitlon if Congress, they will
to revented from doing.
Tlie-e Is a feclltig of Intense Interest
m 'Ii i iese suffrage h'.ates In respect to I
ii i ' tune, a nil i liiitiK it most no
"ir ant 'hat you should as soon as pos
In Hit,, nubllcly jour iWsonul pol
t
i i sin ei in the matter.
"GKOIIUK SI'tIiHIUMI.'
tl.pl.inil It.lKhe. nt lor.
t in r n
hi Laurel Itmnn of the Astor was
fed Hum, at aUaut t !l o'clo l(, Ml
'1 rls Hughes entered, iiccompauled
M " Alice Cariieuter, pre-blenl uf
''. Women's Roosevelt League, whose
Mem rs wi'i'e the hostesses of the cccn
' Mrs. Huglies, carrying a large
riu.iiirt f orrhlds. had Just been posing
ii'.i M us Curpenter for photographers
Hi one uf the parlors upstulrs,
Th oiiien appluuded when the (hair
nu' roduceil Mr Hughes as "the next
l'rsi(lnt of the t'nlted States," renew-
g he ilemonlratliiu when he said
"'-t 'women feel mere keenly than any
"'is e e with respect to the national
"nor nnd Hie ImiMirtnnce of lis malnte
"ann in our proper preimratlou and our
tirurllv
Mr Hughes', address was as follows;
"Miss CAiiriiNTKR, Lauies : it Is an
f"P"rl,il pleasure to meet you tills after-
"oun ami to recognize the very deep In- ,
mm that Jon feel In this campaign, f
in particularly glad to have the surt'ort
. .l. . " v. . . ..
mis niKiinuiition. it Dears tne name
"f a great A.n. tlcan. It bears the nsine
"i one who has very recently Drought
'he whole country to u sense of Its obll-
ration, nnd aroused a very deep feeling
miii regard .in some or our most im
portant concerns. I welcome the support
"t the Roosevelt league.
'This 1 5 a (uaipalgn In which I am
Mt women cannot fall to take a very
Continued on ffcotuf Pag.
arorC FOR BAKER
II U Hcport Withheld Hochusc
of Criticism of Condi
tion s on Border.
A h It I N'oton , Aug. 1. It wan learned
at the War Department to-day that the
report which Dr. Thomas Darlington,
ex-Health Commissioner of New York
I'lty, made on tho rondltlon of guards
men on the bonier was withheld from
publication here because It contained
i
criticism.
Secretary Baker a aid to-day that be
cause of this criticism the report wan
forwarded to den. Tasker II. HUs. who
is now Investigating conditions on the'
border. Oen. Bllaa has reported on the'n ,m, rrnwd that assembled to witness
matter criticised by Dr. Darlington and j her departure und the blasts of whistles
Secretary Baker believe that thla ecl-j from aniall craft near by. the submarine
Ilea the matter and that there la no Deutschland nosed her way out of the
need for publishing the comment which sheltered pier at Locust Point at r .37.
Dr. Dartlnstnn made. o'clock this afternoon, and preceded by
Dr. Darlington made his Investigation a tug pawed out of the harlsir. home
for the National Civic Federation. The, ward bound.
War Department grunted permission fof The crew of the Interned steamship
a frank study of condition.-) and n copy i Necknr, which lu.t been standing beside
of Dr. Darlington' report was sent toi the little ocean ciaft. were lined up
Secretary (taker.
BUCKING CAR WRECKS 3.
Carrlra Tiro With It In ltrere
Hunan ay Collision.
Mntorman Michael Meddrlck
uiglng a Htelnway car up the Miiuhat
tan approach to Queensboro lirldge oh
lti outbound trip last ulglit when It'
lUddtuly decided to run backward. The
trolley pole flew off the wire (and both
,nf.f,r ?r .h,,nd ,,ri,Ke- nc"
.cording to Meddrick. refused to woik.
gome distance back was Dutch Kill
cn lvin
'ear The Melnway maverick
I toward the crowded bridge plana with
Increasing momentum.
The next In line was Bridge l.occl
No. !6. crowded for Its scant length with
, pesfengers.
I The bridge local got a bump that al
most lifted It oft the truck, and the pas-
fcencera got a foretaste of what was to
come nreseiillv. That ivhh when the
th"'' car"; 1,"".nlnB "', f5lr r"'e
of speed, tried to persuade Car No. 631,
siemway line, to join tiiem.
The little bridge local i as crushed as'
It between two giant !lrg.rs. When In
spector Morris, Capl. Walkfleld. twentv
policemen, the rescue snuad of the Fire
Department, Truck No. 1C and about
f linfl mnra x.nxl.i nrMi.,1 thn, Iai.ii.I
Mhe iiassenKera cllnrblnit out of a he.iti I
of wreckage, which was all that was
left of the car. Three o." them couldn't
crawl out and had to be chopped out.
Five were sent to noiipltal,
The oddest thing about It Is that the
Stelnway car that started all the trouble
worked nnd braked perfectly when
Patrolman Henry J. Orlppen tried It
after the accident. So Meddrick was ar-
r.alot ..hnrcwl U'ltt, rrlmiMfit -i.rllii.tt
""7 : : :. '.:?"-" . t
lie auiniueu n ins lll-l m-sriiKer r
run.
BARBER TO HANG CASEMENT.
v "
,
t-.xei'iilloiier iiolnteil anil Will ,
Itecelvt- nit Ilia Fee. '
Iovmiv Autr ' .. A Ml ,,.!
cording 'to the inornlmi 'newspapers all 1
Is raady for the execution of Roger !
Casement, who Is to be hancred in the
Pentonvillo prison at 9 o'clock Thursday .
morning. The executioner appointed Is the submarine were tested and every
a man named Kills, who . a barber of thing ele was made In readiness.
Rochdale. He will receive u fee of 3,1 'P vo crew aboard the vessel was the
Onlv the officials of the prison will same to a mail which was aboard when
lie ur;.-!ii til ma ,-Ai'i muni.
ESTATE GOES TO ORPHAN.
tinulli .NurtvalU. Conn
Woman He
me m her. Fo.ter Daughter.
Mr,. Jane Marriott Hende!
who died I
si weeks ago at .South .Norwalk. conn...
left her substantial estate, with Hie cx-
ceptlnn of 12,500. to Margaret Hope Wll-
sou. an orphan she took from the care of
the State Charities Aid Asrt elation and I
adopted. Mrs. Headers Jewelry and per- ,
tonal .ffects. as well as 5.00U life insur- I
ii nee. go to the child, who Is to be placed I
In III. 1'itrm .if 1r lt ..ll'u .tutor Mrs. '
-- . '.-."
Margaret M. .Meek of South NorwalK,
until sue oecomcs or age,- wnen ine in-
h.rita nr. ii'ltt h. tnrneil nl.r In linr. I
The only other beiiuestn of Mrs. lleai'.el
are 1500 to each of her f ur brothers!
and her sister. Mrs. Headel's brother, I
John McKlm Mlnton of 5f West Fifty-'
seventh street. Is executor,
GETS JOB HER HUSBAND LOST.
President Appoint. Woman
Ps.tnisj.ter of Devil. Lake, .N
II.
Wasiiinoton, Aug. 1. President Wll-1
son noinluuliil to-day Marjorle J. Hlooni
as postmaster nt Devils Lake, North
Dakota. There has been u controversy
nvrr uir m.-i uiie-r wiiii-u iins i.nni . miiniu'riii; uer,ns vm,uo i. ..in.i ,.u,r,- jnjn (n the HoUHe of Commons yester
niore than a year. Mrs. Hloom's hus- neath the warships. Hut the water fhero l!liyi wi1PMi replyliu: to an Inquiry res-aril-
band was noinliiated twice for the of
fice and rejected each time by tl Sen
nte. Last May 11. H. Davles was iioml-
nntr, (0 n,e position, but later quit (hi
rare.
$1CO,OCO PAID IN BONUSES.
i:il.l"ee. of Vonker. ('..any
II r erne .ir.s
YoNKElis, N. V, Aug. 1. Nearly
illiO.OOO In bonuses was pti'd out to-day
to the employees of the Alexander Smith
Sons' Carpet Com-iiin
Kach emplojee who lias winked two
.cars for the company received 1 per
cent, of his earnings for the past six'
mouths. Men employed the years re- j
celved ft ner cent., and tnose employeii 1
ten years or more received 12 per cent. 1
rl.u lu .nor. liberal than were the I
tho'
oast bonuses naid to the men, and at
least B.IUIW Or Hie l.uuu men llirivi-u
somethlnt. Hlnce August. Mil. the com-
papy has paid out nearly 3jii,ono Hi
t-eiml-ulinusl bonuses to Its men,
DR. GLUECK CLINIC IN, SING SING j
Wa.hlnalon K.prrl Preparnl for
Menial Hlody of w I'rlsonrrs.
USSINIMl. Aug. i. " .'"..""',:
... . . i .i,tiUi.A.i
ijiuecii oi nsionsiu,, ...-.., j..
a psychiatric, cllnlo In Slug Hii.g Prison.
The innovation, which nr. eoi niof
discussed, will be watched with Interest
, by phrenologists.
nr ntiieck said he will at first confine
hla observation of the mentality and
moral sense of prisoners to new arrivals,
but later on he will study those cases
which present tnemsetvca iniougn un
usual or Irrational actions of old con'
Wet.
DEUTSCHLAND OFF i
ON HOMEWARD TRIP!
Opriiinn Subtnnrinc Sails From
Biiltlntoro After Chnnncl
Is Drnirirpd.
HAS PASSKD ANNAPOLIS
Hon. Carries Cargo of (lold,
Nickel and Crude Hub
ber Aboard.
lUt.TlMonr, Aug. 1. Mid the cheers of
along the deck of the big Milp looking
InMii upon tho little one us i lie left and
homing their "godspeeds ' In tierman.
These cheera were not all. The Neck.ir
scve anothei demonatratlon of I'cst
wishes by hoisting signal flags which In
ire International c lc mean "lloniewnrd 1
bound, tinod lujl(." The Ucrman colora
v.ere unfurled from the stem ot tnc
larcer ship
Custom Iton.e lloal la t'oiin
The undersea craft was painted a
na green. This was done uuring uie
hisJ few days. In Irregular tines across
,. ,i.. ... ,ii,i,.
wl) , wh(.n r(..iclfs ,,P
ocean, wncrc tne waters ore oerp aim
green, u la ucueveii in.n u win -
Iiosllile to distinguish her She w.i
i.iuo)rd by the Custom House boat
nissahli'kou out of the harbor as far
as Fort Carroll, and t wed by the tug
Thomas F, Tlmmln.
Captain Koettig, clad In wlille. tood
.lone In Hie c 'lining tower as the essel
moved out, bowing hi aekn iwledg-
toeut...
,.v ,
:ver tnlnir wtikh was taken aboard
the submarine was toted, ewu. to the
crude oil. This latter was run through
a !ee and tested by t.erman chem
ist". Nor vas a move made until It was
definitely fettled that the channel was
clear In the mottling the river leading
out into the channel for a mile from the
mcorlngs of the Deutschland wa"
dragged Tlie log boom were removed
-about 6 ..to o'clock ihl morning, and
a net was thrown overboard between
the tU2. Kfc.) und the Tlmmlns and
they stalled nwn abreast
A Ilrltlsh freighter had been at anchor
several hundred yard from the Deutscli
Und and It was probably feared that
'onie...teis.
had been taken to block
Tr --...., nf ...i,,.,..,.!.,. m.r.
I chantman. None of the otllclal- of the
i Kastern Forwarding Company would
mal:e a"-v "irument about this. They
would not tell of any suspicions they
nilglif have had. but they took every
IK,.i,ie tc.,, t0 ne that there were no
obstructions.
'
OI" 'rrw ,n '
I.tler In the morning examinations of
the cargo of gold, nickel and crude run-
ber were made, the pumps and engines on
he came to till" port. (SuMav Prusse.
who came fiom Germany with the
I DiMit.-clilind us supeicargo did not te
,luin. The belief Is he Is here to await
fthe arrival of the Hremen and to cate
for her engines If It Is found any care
' . .. .. .........i i... i.. f,.. i
is necii ii. ii ivae riiin ii lie w us in ikii-
I i.... 1. ..i.i i, t i i,
knew where to locate Hint.
("apt. KoeiilR put to sea with the
bium-ledse that a man hurried to a tele-
,,,, wlh mpMaBe to agents for the
Kntete Allies that the Deutschland had
l rt j They knew how lona he had
w! ,rc , . ?,', a7ea by pier, (lav
" "., o 'V, o , k i, J . .f
ii..nimore Harbor smiling and waving
, ls .a MH laal wor,ls in the harbor
. . .....
u-eie oi nraise ioi -Ainer ca nnu ior nm
treatment by Haltlmnre customs au
thorities. To Guy Steele. Surveyor of
Customs, he said:
"We came heie dubious about our re-
ceptlon. We go back certain that the
friendliest of feeling exists In America
for Germany. You have been mote than
courteous, and tlie Fatherland will not
forget It."
Ci'it. Koenlg knows that eight war
shltw of the Kntente Allies are wnltliw
for him at the edgo of the threo mile
limit, spread out in radius of five miles,
l "We shall have to pass unseen within
1 Iliai r.llllus ill ce-miit-'. lit; nam. ii " i
shall have tu make that passage under
conditions not entirely auvantageous no
I us. Were the water at that point ISO
feel deep. It would be easier We could
' , ' . :, r
lore nave U Jilien winrrii uir v ill i-iiii.
At S't.1 this evenln;; the suhmatlno
was leported iuisslug Annapolis at about
twelve knots, If she (ontliiues on her
t nurse she t-lioufil teach the Capes about
f. o'clock to-morrow morning.
Tl'c yacht Valiant, with photographers
'.i.n.r ..nt Into iitifitinllH unit ren irled
the trip thus far uneventful. The
..,.ni1ir u nletir. ih. wind HI fill and there
llot much sea.
The Deutschland passed Cme Point,
Mil., sixty miles south of here, at II -M
P. M. .
nflAJfn 11
UUAKU In I A OAK, !.-., U,
cruiser nml lrlroer Mine !(. :
Hamilton IIiihiIs.
Nnnroi.K. Va Aug, 1, The .irmoieil
, cruiser North Carolina anil two destiny-
ers, WHICH lllllf l'ill iimna llirniiiiiiij
duty along the three inlle limit off .Cape
Hcnr . moved Into Hampton itoniis to
! day about tlie time the Deutschlaiu
i cleared fiom ilnltlmore.
Whllii only one whip or Ihe allied pa
! 1 ifoers' "
was be lev. 7 ;
,u;' T,,mnIn, u doubtful If she could
irnrh I hero liefore to-morrow noon. R
nuttinif on full speed and racing away
:,, ,,, ,,, I, i helleveil In.',, uli.
rrom
- . . . ,, .. nrriv. i,v davliebt
, ould bo able to arrive i iiaMignt
To Await llrllalns An.ivrr,
The Assocl.ltl 11 to Resist Hrlllsh Dom-
hiatlon of American llonimeri e nt a
i nieetlng yesterday in the unices of ,1m
mermaun & Forshuy, lu It Wall street,
decided to defer further action until
Great Hrltaln has had u reasonable pe
riod In which to answer President Wll
son's note.
Important Notice
Because of what amounts practically to a famine
in newsprint paper, we are compelled to make THE"
SUN, morning and Sunday, and THE EVENING SUN
strictly non-returnable from newsdealers.
That is, beginning next Monday, August 7th, we
shall not take back unsold copies from newsdealers. A
similar rule already obtains with the Times, the World,
the American and the Tribune.
We are telling you about this so that you may place
a regular standing order with your newsdealer for your
paper. By this means you will make sure of getting it
and you will thus protect your newsdealer from a pos
sible loss in having on his hands unsold copies.
V RANK A. MUNSEY. s
PAPER MAKERS SAID !
Piiblislters Complain'Tlial Big I
Firms Have Surpluses,
but Force I'p Prices.
WASiii.voroN, Aus. t. Charge- th.it
the manufacturer of print paper. In the
face of eoar.'ng nrlces and an apparent
scarcity, were maintaining a larue re
serve stock and that there was collusion
amoiiK them ,u force un nrl -es were
made toda nt the Federal Trade Corn-
miltee a Investigation of the paper sit
nation.
.1. H. 7.erby, chnlinian of the white
paper committee of the Pennsylvania
Aasoclatcd Dallies and representative I
of the National Kditorlal Association,
t-stln-il that one paper concern held m I
good" j
P. T Dodse. represcntlnit the Inter
national Paper Company, replied by say
ing that the rhaige was directed against'
iii company nnu mat ti maintained a
lare.e surplus stock to uphold Us boast
that It had never failed by reHson of
accident or calamity to supply Its cus
tomers. The tariff policy pursued by the
Fulled States, he added, had forced
manufacturers to locate their plants In
Canada, where one Is now under con
struction by the International company
and In time will force the entire Indii"-
try to nune over t tie bolder.
F. It. Glas", vlce-pre'ldent of the
Newpaper Publishers' AR.oclatlon, said
that members were morally certain that '
manufacturers were In agreement In ,
boosting the price of paper and that a '
report on this phase of the problem I
would be made to the commission by
hi- association within sixty das.
To Cn Down Ue of Xew.pupers.
PublMhcr of dally newspapers iln J
Hreater New Yor' at a meeting yeslei-
day afternoon took action which will re-j
,it in a decrease of the number of
p.iu'es III their morning, evening ami
Kun.lay Ipur The reduction Is a step.
to relieve the news print paper si uatlon.
wnirn is regarueu me iiui.iienr,n r
verv serious, Action was alj taken to 1
eliminate returns of unold roples. j
HEAT WAVE IS BROKEN.
Cnnniln Send. Coollnit Breese
Which I Welcomed.
A philanthropic wlrl of coolness from
north-northwest, called by the experts an
. . , , ,, , i
area of high pressure, sailed down In
this direction early jesterday and ban
ished the heat wae The northerly
Ineeze fluctuated between eight and
thirty-four mnes. anil transiora
nnd transformed the
iem .enuneni .., me vnj n.i.
went to
""'K'
" f'1"'tl!; ,cloM' ,0 ,f.r"lnf
"P ""ere the hU i began ts seml-Arctlc
n.nc. n '"c " .V,7
over wnicu ine ciiouii'pjf i. is.-iui.ii ?i:e.-
terdsy. slept under blankets with a ten
perature of nnd Duluth was cheerful
with the mercury kissing 5S. Ken De
tiolt. which was hot a few days ago,
levelled In an atmosphere of 62.
Mftcorolnxtcal optimists promise a
c iiitlnunnce of the refieshment to-day.
They ay the sklos will be clear and that
theie will be not much change in tem
perature." The same forecast applies to
to-morrow.
ASftUITH RETIREMENT HINT.
i
( nn.t
Know Who Will lie Re-
pon.llile Vrxt Se..lon," lip Mays.
.onpon, Aug, 2 t Wednesday ). Some
or )P morning newspapers attach great
nl,0lnl,co to a temiirk of Premier As-
ing certain routine maltets nt the nu
Itirnii session of Parliament, he said!
"I don't know who will be tesjionslble
for the conduct of the business at the
rexl session -1 have not the faintest
Idea,"
"This,"' sins the 'Jiillu flraiihlr, "may
be ii preliminary bint that he Intend, to
retire.
The Ihiilij fViniiifcJr holds the .nine
opinion, saying that Col, Winston Spen
cer Cliiiiililll and Sir Kdwuid Carson
will be iiriiIii In Ministerial i.flU'e.,
BLACK TOM SEEN FROM AIR.
Ihii II, IIiimIoj and Henri Wood
hoii.r Vleir lllllns III llliilniir.
Ahm R, Ilawicy, president of the
Aero Club of America, and Henry Wind
licusf, secretary, yesterday Hew over tho
harbor to see how the tiilns on Hhuk
,.. . , from Ibe air
l,p.j 'wf. ' ,2 in o ,e
The Itlght was made In one of the
'our machines which are helm? used nt
(,' jwnior's Island to Haiti n dozen enn
lldales for the new Aerial Reserve
, CnrVfi. ndU.ary IdplanV.' was ied
nilll, ,teed one of the candidates.
Corp". The machine, a loo-horsepower
At 4.200 feet only an Insignificant
etnudge, made by the still smoulileiing
.'Ulns, was visible. At 2.000 feet, how.
ever, the entire scene of Hie big explo-
s.iin was exposeu hi view, sun ine
ultir could be examined In detail.
Ontario Fire Head .'toil.
Corai.t. Ontario, Aug. 1. Frederick
Dane, Loan CouiinlKsloner, representing
the Ontario Government lu relief of the
northern Ontario fire sufferers, said to
night that from reports received from
the various flrcswept sectluns tha num
ber of dead how is estimated at 306,
to Our Readers
" i
i
'VICTORY HOW SURE
Views Also of Poineare. Haig,
l,lovd (ieorge Published in
Review of Two Years.
Fams. Aug. 1. The nullrlln dr..
.Inner, the ofllclnl Journal of the soldiers
"f h' French army, will publish to
morrow copies of letters exchanged be
tween President Polncare. David Lloyd
Oeorge, British Secretary of War, and
Oen. Sir Douglas Ilalg, commander of
the Hrltl"h troops In France, together
with an order of the day Issued by
(lett. .lofTre to the French army on tho
occasion of the second anniversary of
the outbreak of the war. The order of
nen inffre follows-
Soldiers of the republic:
Your third car of fighting hn be
gun, For two years past you have
been supporting with.unf.illlng strength
the weight of an Implacable conflict.
You have caused all the plans of our
enemies to fall. You vanquished them
on the Manic : you checked them on
the Yser, and you bent them In Artols
and In Champagne at a time when
they were vainly at eking victory on
the plains of rtusola. Then your vic
torious resls'ance during a battle of
five months duration broke the tier
man effort in front of Verdun.
Xtnbborn Courage Won."
Thanks to your stubborn courage
the armies of our alllfs have been
enabled to manufacture arms, the
welgut .of which our enemies to-day
are experiencing over their entire
front.
The moment I. approaching when,
under the strength of our mutual all
iance, the military power f Ger
many will crumble.
Soldiers of France, you may oe
proud of the work you already hate
accomplished! You have determined
to see It through to the end ! Victory
Is fertuln! JorniK.
Justice on It Way."
President Polncare writes:
"For the second lime, my friends, we
have to commemorate together a soul
stirring anniversary. Two years ago
we lived hours that are not to be for
KOtten. Since then two sections of man
kind have been Krappllng ul'.h one an
other and are fighting amid streams of
bioou-. The nations "who have let loos;
that stupendous iatastrophe have not
!et completely expiated their act. Hut
Justice I. on Its way."
The President recalls the events which
preceded the declaration of war. He
i r,iate how the German troops entered'
French territory, and continues
"T-n .-, hfll'A r.fi.ao.l lull nmM fh.
fntlsne. nnd' nerlls these recollections.
my friend-. hae remained vivid In your
souls, Do no: let them become obliter
ated, because it 1 they which give, to
this war Its clear slgnlllcence and bring
to llsht the beauty of your task,
"Instinctively 'mutilated France, which
during forty-four years had imposed si
lence on her sorrow, understood In 1914
that the foe who was attacking her.
blinded by pride and fanutlclzed by
hatred, had no grievance to plead, no
right to defend, no menace to ward off.
It Is in vain that to-day the aggressors
are attempting to falsify history.
With Insolent Frankness.
"They were at first less knavish and
more cynical when they flattered them
selves in seeing In tlie treaties granted
by them nothing but scraps of paper.
With Insolent frankness they nrcepted
the responsibility of their crime. The
French people were not deceived.
"The nation was conscious that theirs
was a esse of legitimate .defence. It
realized sixmtnneously that 'sirred union
which Is the miiln condition of victory
nnd which found lu the memorable sit
ting of the Parliament of the 4th of
August, 1!M4, an Imposing consecration.
"The war became Immediately, In the
whule force of"the term, a national war
There Is not s Frenchman who remained
deaf to the call of his country. When
you were called upon to protect ourj
frontiers and sine our natal soil you.
were not only conscious that your ma-'
terlal Interests were at stake ; you knew I
nlso that you were golrg to defend Onlers found on captured German of
iiur hearths, that you were g,.lnK to 1 or , m,.0ut. they have aban-
defend all which constitutes ! ranee (, , ,m,catp llow dcspeialely tho Get-,
traditions. Ideas, moral forces, prescm-d endeavoring to regain their
and developed by a nation which will K,.ound. One order thus found says :
1 ... ., . .. . This posit'0" "Hist be held to the
"Among these French Ideas one of ,a, Those who fall to hold it will
oe oioesi n in imsi nrr,, luoifq ,H me
horror of Injustlie, The violence meted
out to Serbia and the Invasion of lie),
glum still further enhanced the outburst
of your patriotism and fortified jour
ic-iilutlon to be victorious.
You perceived that the cnuse of
which you nan iiivoiiie uie cn.impious
nutineiisurcd your lives, that It was
...,.i ,. . . , .... L . .
greater than Franco herself, that It em-
limced lii reality civilization and Im -
inn nit
n"u'uV' . ..
. "i.l nB'.''.,',,r.1. y01. "iU'C
uudertHKeti, a crusade ror the luw or
pultons and for His liberty of peoples,
Tlie grandeur of your mission lias ex-
alted your courage, and you have re-
. veaieu lo ine worm tae nue prance
mat pi'iince wiioe insuppein twice or
humiliation would ho a universal calam
ity and an enteruul loss to mankind.
"Thr manes of Victor)."
"Your patience and gallantry during
long months have restrn ncd the pies- esiiiii.iiniK fii. n., i- "' , Vi .Anv liii.e.1- ncltxitor One of tho ipt-
snre of the Gsrmanv armv Ths hstiu. neither of these computations can be i Moone , laPoi iiguator. one or trie let
sure of the Germany army. The battle- lc(1 crev accurate, they give i T"'1,5 J,f. fT 1 a.n'
. planning 1 will lie the biggest man In
Continued on Fourfn I'age, Conllstiecf on Fotirlh Page, San Francisco labor circles."
' ALIM M.I) RAINS
i "rr:
IN Id HUT ATTAulvb
Still Kiffht Desperately Along
Soinme: Repulse Charge
Hi Hem Wood.
j mtlTISII HARD PRKSSKD
I Berlin Asserts Haig's
Mftll i
1 "
Lost Position West of
! Kotireaux Wood.
I'Ants, Aug.
1. French and British
. i ,,. ,..inn ti,. .
t In the region or the
force operating
,
, -.online spent last nignt ann to-iiay tnnn
withstanding the desperate but si,s-
teniatlo effort." of the Hermans to re- I
capture the ground they lost on Sun 1
day. The net result of the fighting Is 1
I '--, ruiiiiiit'll I iij ill,' i.iiiipii i.fiii
mauiler, (Jen. Sir Ilnuslas ll.ilg, whose
report reads f Imply Hint "the situation .
l unchanged,"
Hut the one shoit word doe. not tell
the stirring tale of heroic and unflinch- I
Ing ic,t,,ncc to attack- dually heroic. I
ill liit-ll Cllllll 1U IU1II III' IIIM- llir ini;a
of the (ierm.in attack broke most tlcrccly 'ne rniin I'.aeh.
against, the French. serial Cablt ttttpttch la Tn Suv
From Sunday afternoon to Mondavi ,,AR. AuK, .Mlfbery. one of the
ti ght no less than sixteen well organized Atnt,r,n avllora with the French army,
attack- were made on the t rench line , ,,own,(1 Oerinan machine within the
between the Hwn wood and he bnmme. nrrmM nes yestenlay after a sensa
At the wood Itself nod near the Monaiu ,., t...ri,.rv .ir,i-
farm the Jlglitlng was particularly des-
perate. The Germans even succeeded In
r.u"k.,.",f .".T "'"u1 "I1 Su,mla- I1'"1 'or'
..i uiiiu nine, uui i uiiuui.- . '" .
i , i i iiuiiii-i mini n uiu,t iiiviii ui,i.
llatlatlon l.o.e. One-Tlilrtl.
The renewal of the German alturk ' fell He .aw the German drop help
Monday morning failed completely, one lesly, and he followed for a thouaand
battalion losing one-third of Its strength, j feet, only to encounter three enemy ma
The railway station abfJIom, on the out- chines. Flndlnir his own gun clogged
skirts of the forest onWhe road of Marl- he was forced to flee,
court, changed hands four times Man- Klffen Rockwell had attacked a Ger
day morning. The French lost it for ) man. who made n vertical drop to
the last time at 3 o'clock In the after- j escape him. Rockwell followed to a
noon, when they were beaten back by point 2,."no feet from the ground, shoot
two Saxon regiments, but at 4 o'clock Ing deliberately. Suddenly he heard flr
a desperate French charge recovered Ing behind him. He wheeled, thlnklnv It
it, and It remains In French possession. . was another German machine, but aw It
At the extreme right of the French I was n French lieutenant, who finished the
Somme front there was more furious Job. The German machine seemed to be
lighting. Heavy forces were launched In a new tie, differing from tiny seen
the I.llions sector by Hie Germans In two
attempta to liend back the French line.
ltoth attempts failed. The artillery, und I
later the midline gun fire, was ex-
tremely effective and did great exeeu-
Hon. In this same general locality the
French es.aked a small advance with
success, taking a German trench between
Kstrees and Itellny-en-Santerre and cap- '
-w.. i.ri.mi.r. ,
Hut If the French did stand the brunt
of the attack, that does not mean that
!!'t..!i.rlnolJTr7r ItiJi"."'"!!" wee-
newly arqulred portion.. They were
w;T.ndG;Vm:n
eKr-V.?.
out. North of Haaentln-le-l'etit there
were oilier vigorous German attacks, but
tbey broke down. The Hrltlsli ofllclal re -
port nmke no mention of fighting n the
Foureaux wood to-day
Iterlln also asserts that the German"
repulsed an elttlitfold French attack In
tlie neighborhood of Matirepas.
French rr Reforming.
The French now are organizing at the
outskirts of Maurepas, Glnrhy nnd Gull
Irmont Their losses In all this fighting
were much less than tho"e of the enemy.
One regiment, which led the attack on
July 30 nnd whose advance was the
most rapid, lot about "00 men, of whom
73 per cent, were only sllghtlv hint. The
small numlier of serious Injuiles Is at-
trlbutabte to the pr.-clslon and ettlclccy
of the supporting artillery.
The work of sttengthenlng and adapt
ing the newly won tienches is being car
ried on speedily and methodically by the
engineer corps.
Tlie French commanders regard
'"'in
I situation on tlie whole as excellent and
say that the arrangements In the rear of
I the nttncklng forces have reached a pitch
"f peifectlon never before seen.
Mate.
rial of all kinds 1" In abundance, far ex
ceeding, according to reports, the actual
requirements, and everything is In readi
ness for an nttempt to push the advance
further when the time Is ripe.
Fury of German Is.nulta.
The fury of tlie German nssnults and
the strength of the effectives engaged
shows the determination of the Fin
peror's Generals to spare nn effort to
nrm'nnl Ihe Vreill 11 IMim WOrKlllIT llieir
'''" ......
wav along the north natiK or the river
by way of Clery to attack Peronne front
two sides.
Aviators report that the Germans are
making feverish efforts to reenforce the
positions about Clery, already strongly
foi'llfled, and ate gathering reserves
from several directions. Heavy righting
Is looked for In the near future.
Klsewhere on the front there was
some little activity, most important of
which was a violent night bombard -
1 W,'M of Hie Thlaumont
. workl 1,1 the region of eriluti, at the
end of which the Germans began an
attack, but wete compelled to desist by
the effectiveness of th" artillery ami
machine gun tire.
Liter a counter attack by the Fiench
with grenades tunde soiiin progress
south of Thlaumont. Near Vaux-Cliapl-tie
the Gentians took u trench, only to
lie expelled.
Slaualilrr Whole llnllnlloim.
., ,i,i. rlBorous y by court
martial.
R Is believed one vital stretch of
tiench. about 2,000 yatds long, near
Gulllemont, was garrisoned by no fewer
than eleven battalions, The result was
'III .11 lll ...-.. .-i..... ..... . . .'.'
i ... ., . l. U.lllul, i.rtlllnrf illil f A,r l.ln
Hi,,nl.i,((.r
H,'r"V,l', ,., ,.irm., nr., .i.ns.in. ,n,.i.
rtnlli.ll ., It. llia Ufiniin. rani.,,, .....I
1 "V .,'"," t,,ie.,is ne h,i m
mi m- m .i"n""fi - - -
Tit onninv U flRhtlnn ii doftnonitn dp
fenslve. lie Is lighting It well and ,.
fully, Ii tit not hopefully,
AMAZING LOSSES.
German. Put Alllr' nl U.III.Oim
French Hnr Teuton. I.o.t tirtn.OOO,
LoNtMiN. Aug. 1. Pnrls and llerllu
. u?tV.WW VrXtrl
'r whitridge sees
nothingto arbitrate
President, of Third Ave. Hall
way Blames Agitators
for Strike.
London', Aug. 1. "There In nothing to
arbitrate," said F. V. Whltrldge, presl
dent of the Third Avenue Railroad Com
pany, to-day lit he prepared to depart for
j hi country place for a stay ur.tll au-
tumn. The compiny la paying all It cant
- u ,. Liar I
I hiiumi 111 WilKes. lie Hlliit'll, ,i.,,ir
granted an Increase Of 6 per cent In
l.lanuaiy, which raise coat the corpora
tion $258,000. That the entire system
; was tied up In Manhattan and The
i llronx seemed to surprise htm.
1 Kli. ....... I .. I...... ...
III Hid, Clllll. 1 11114 llttlC lo I""".
he said, "but I will watt until I hear
fiom the company's olllclals. When I
. ,, .. ... ... ,. ' , ,ii,.
.luii iuir 1. 1 1 1; i c nag mm ri on iv
Westchester and Yonkcrs. which rop
resent but IS per cent, of our entire
trackage, but there were no rumors of
unrest In the city. If the city lines are
tied up, that Is quite a different matter
I had planned to remain until October."
He bliimes agitators for the trouble.
The cost of living In New York h.is
risen, he ndinltted, and said that li why
the company granted Its recent raise.
AMERICAN AIRMEN BUSY.
,.Bfhrry ,,
llall tiet
,,., ,v,th',n th(1 fn whpn
.,. nerni.n, ninm. lilnu him tin
dived and got under tlie Fokker'H tall
wlth0ut being seen, and then opened
fire.
SeeliKf the German waver he turned
I quickly and avoided tlie Fokker as It
heretofore. It nnu Mil a single seat, and
apparently was Just from the factory,
The communlqu cite Haifa second
HocTTe.
.
ASKS "COURT-MARTIAL ' POWER
, . ,,,
I.I.., .1 fifowe Prraenta mil Almr.1
, at "High Official. '
MSDOS Ug " (Wednesday) Much
i"lKt'-'-t Mn !",0WI1 ",0 How "f
, (.umlnMM lo,,,,y , tl)e ,,, introduced by
IJovd George. Hilary for Wr
.,.- ,m,, ,iii,. ueihist hlirh .tllrlal at
' y-ar otiifp."
, Tho ,or,,np newspapers discuss the
I FubJ. ct guardedly. The Morning Puif
sa ve .
"It Is a M'mple looking measure, but
mere im a vre.u ueai neniuu n i ne i -
legations imolved concern civilians, ' '" "' " "
more than soldiers.'' M'hern... it N , Incl.nles not morel.-
The ttntlv .Veil's sas .Manhattan but also stati n Islmd,
"The ufT.-ilr I" causing a great stir In I Hrooklyn and Long Island City
political and military circle? Among. ,
the allegations against the olllrlal is that 11 -e"'l" Iiiuik.- Clan..
his action In certain army matters Ha" ' i t. flK(t otl ti,r Third Avenue l:.i '.
not always been lnilneiiced by national way system the strike leaders were saps
lonsideratlons alone." ) tied to tittact. one division at a tlni".
Tiiete ha" iH'en mil. h gos. p coneetn- Their plans, however, are n w said to
nig a certain iftlcl.il, charges against
whom are said to hale caused l.lid ,
George's action, which fort'tnlN the de-
tcrmlnntloti of several niembeis of Par- i
llument to raise u dK'Usslon In the
Commons. The otllclal In question Is
tepresented In some quarters as having ,
acted with a lew to soci il consldera-
,i ,. ,..,ii , iii.n, ihe
n.itlon.il welfare
ranting commlf.lons In the itmv
EVICTION TO FEED GERMANY.
Srlieil l'errltor Will Prod nee
SiMrn Time, (irnln Needed,
Sprn.il Vi'Mr l"linlfi In Til. Scs
WfrrAUr;..,U 1TV ...sacred a
solution of the German food problem.
l-iNIsiN', Aug. .1.
I..
lt pU,,,M, I '' "iiui" i.v,,.u. ,
mI,y
u'such, Inhabltnnts of these territories
arc isel.s to the conquerors be
I evicted. It sy". the empire's grain re-1
, quirrments nro nssiired, while at thei
Hnlnl, tm(. uy forcinc these people to take i
i refuge with' lloir friends strong pres. i
Hllr(, uuui he everted on the latter nnd I
perhaps cause them to succumb, as It
J would be dllllcult to houe and feed the ,
refugees. i
1 Tim rliinm deflates 11 l absolutely
' preposterous that n-eles. enemy sub.
j,.cts be allowed In continue, to ent their
fill within the tierman line-,
-----
. .,,, ,
H0W ENGLAND WAS IN PERIL.
- r- -
Ilnl.i Tit.OIMt xliol. In lte.ere Year
Awn, May. l.lod George.
P.Bis, Aug. 1 -"tin the first of June.
IKir,." said DaWd Lloyd George, the;
Hritish Secietnry for War. In conversa-
tlon will, Maurice Hmii.s, Fiench acade-
mlcl.nand novilst to-day. "the ItrltlM, I
It argues from statistics it nas unearthed 1 ',
that the enemy teriltoiles occupied by, U." b?" organized the gree,, c.,r
the German armies nrodiue seen times "'". ' ,a,ho"; ?" ; "K a..
the quantity of wheat and rye necessary : ", ,,r, i,f,e; h,a 1 ," Bht, """I"".
..... ...l...l ........I-.,!..., iiie.i linn- ioi ii ii ... i - ii ill ine ruilKU llieir
novilst to.dav. "the HrltLh 'J" , 1 "" V W B H ' nm It s.i.
me week's su inly of muni- lllK' l,m hI"1"1'1 strikes occur In the out.
Iv 00 In 11,7 'lvl,,,f district-, like. Stnten Island.
, .:'?e e.S" ' ,, i hCl Hrooklyn, Williamsburg ..nd !,; M.
army hnl one
Hops nml on
serve slock at the le.ir. It had nothing
more
"if theie had been a great attack
what would havu become of us? If the
Germans had turned upon our soldiers
the forces they then hurled on the Rus
sians 1 don't see how we could have
ued ourselves
TJflVTl CTTTTTHC ABIT PATffJWT I al1"" 'lemsnd It the Forty-seventh lispt
aOHia Attt. tAUUJtl. mi,t f Hiuoklyu, the Thltd Const ar-
Wtiu rrniicl.co l.alior ultntor Xnld
to He Hip Crlnelpnl.
Sin FitANiiSi'i), Aiir, 1 Documentary
evidence Mufllclcnt to convict those. In I
custody for tlie bomb explosion ten days I
nt,o dining the preparedness parude, I
when nine persons wero killed and fotly
Injured. In In tlie lunula of the police to-
day. according to District Attorney C
M, l- Ickei t.
A raid lust night on the heiidquatters
the alleged lenders of the plot re -
SECRET STRIKE
PLEA TO 7,000
Malum and Fitzgerald, of
International Union, Or-
gnniziii"; Brooklyn.
.f
LEADERS DEFIANT
OF CORPORATIONS
"Let TJiem Fire a Siiiffld
Man." They Say, " and
Sec What Happens."
MEN IN 5 BOROUGHS '
TO QUIT TOGETHER?
Subway Employees Kept nfi
Barns Get Free Food and
Higher Pay.
William D. Mahon, president of the)
International Association of Street
ItullwAy Employees, and William II.
Fitzgerald, labor organizer from Troy,
qnietly slipped over to Urooftlyn laet
night to hold meetings with employees!
of tho llrooklyn Rapid Transit Com
pany. They started at once to or
gunlzo tho 7,000 men on tho surface,
elevated and subway lines across the
river.
Tins move. In which tho union
leaders eluded the srottts of the transit
companies who havo been trailing
them, followed a series of secret visit
late on Monday night ami early yes
tvrduy to a number of hall in Mnn
hattan, where they addressed employees
of tho New York Railways Company,
or bluo car lines, and organized several
( hundred men in a union. They albd
(did missionary work among both sub-
' w"' "I'd efevated employees of the lu-
I terbnrottKh Rapid Tmtiblt Company,
I Th manner in whch , BrRanlier-j
I
and the a,,s.,,y dlsphtyed
''' fcHt Mayor Mltchel and Police Coni-
imlfMioncr Woods over the strike sltua-
't Ion gave rise list night to the report
' that a secret effort, skilfully supervised,
' Is now being made to call out the cat1
I men on till tho traction lines in tho
,r., i, , ,i, .,,.. ,....,, ti.
embrace the gigantic enterprise of parn-
I.izlng all passenger trallle In the fle
boroughs at one nune. They wish to
stop every car wheel in New York city
In the hope that by this means they can
bring the heads of the transit eorpntn
tlons to seek peace on the carmen -4
terms ornt least recogn'tl n of the union
nnd arbitration of all other demands.
"The men euiywhero are racer, Jut
boiling over with impatience," s.nd Fli.-.-girald
last night nt the Hotel C nt.neit.
tat prior to another nlKht's se.slot) with
carmen "We have trouble in holding
them ha"k until we are ready Haste is
a had thing, and you don't catch us
making a move until we are te.idv. Wo
,ire organizing the men In every bnrnucli
i and wn want to see what the i niiin.ii.i'
TVX " !'
H . "on 1 J11".'. 'el 0 emflre ,i single.
., .. ,,, , . ..... .,
iirnmiins, mum win unra upon me
"""piiny within short time. What's
ur next moc. Well, boys. I can't say
,. . . , ,
Major - Fiiloii Pledge,
-pmt the pike have some Inkling uf
tho plans of the stilke generals to stoii
all passenger tralllu In the entire cltv
was supported yesterday by tho request
nude by Mayor .Mltch.il'upoii Muhon and
i.h.v.,r.it.i iii.tr n.i. .,,,i.i ...... ,
i twi nty-fotir hours notice of any slriko
they lutcndid calling. The Mayor said
1 he got their promise, but Mahon denied
that, aiserllng that he ptumlseil tho
Minor he would i;lo linn whatever ik-
, tic he could.
Police Commissioner Woods, who had
' tw loiiferenies wllh Gov. Whitman on
, Monday and who saw lum ng.mi yes
terdiiv. Is teported to lie gravely ton.
'"'J1'" "u'r ''"minds that may be
made upon his department within the
,ow.. ,,"y". T1,',t h," r"1"'1 i:""H
f,1""5 '"'!." ",rlK" "" "'-.New Vork
. "!'!' "." l R1w
and City, he would be taxed to mor
than capacity.
Gov. Whitman accord. ugly ",ncte
his military secretary, Copt Losillnrl
Spencer, to compile for him ox'js he.
lire as to the number of inlUtlurne'j
remaining within tins State. it ,,-a
learned that Hiero tiro available '
I duty In this city should the s'llke sun.
tlllery, the First Provisional Itigtment
of Ullc.i and surroiimllng districts; ma
Tenth Provisional UcKlmont, tho Third
heavy arllll'ity und 2,ooo naval mlUtls.
These regiments comprise about H'.OOd
men,
Interlioro tlcn liepl In llnrn..
i ot.r indications that a big suiprlsa
1I1V(. n, plrt of (. strike loader t
, )s Hntlclpiled Is shown ty the fact that
.. number of employees of tho Interline.
I onK were kept in the burns lust night
' Tho storekeepers near tho burns wen!
a.iked to keep open and to supply tho
men. Provision was made for employee i
of tho New York Railways to sleep
In the b.irus and to eat food that would
bo provided free by tho company. Adder)
to this was the announcement made lifc
