} Fair ton.. h^^Sr^taer^ln, if ^A ^ ^ . .O fryfl "*>Om Pre?? <Q f/cr
and warmer; light M B W a
flili? ici)?ftittii st9Cu
? ?? " l y I ^ [ X fw#r? Het ClrnilatfM, Month of Jnno*
^ CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 14. ^ 1?I?. Dally iTtrafC. 79.0991 Baaday. K.S2T.
No. ?0,398! WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 2, 1916.-EIGHTEEN PAGES. ONE CENT.
' i i 7
ALLIES ON SOMME
KEEP ON POUNDING
AT GERMAN LINES
British Report Progress, and
French Capture a Strongly
Fortified Position.
FRONT AT VERDUN AGAIN
SCENE OF HARD FIGHTING
Germans Apparently Making a Renewed
Effort to Decide the
^sue There. -j
BATTLE'S TIDE CHANGEABLE
Frei??' penetrate Enemy's Lines,
But Are Forced in Turn to Yield
Ground?Russians in Champagne
Rout Foe With
Bayonet.
LONDON. August 2. 4:05 p.m.
?Further progress has been
made by the British troops to
the east of Pozieres, in the River
Somme region, it was officially
nnouncerl this afternoon.
Dealing another powerful
>low at the German lines, the
French last night took a strongly
fortified position between Hem
wood and Monacu farm, close to
.he River Somme northwest of
Feronne, according to this afternoon's
Paris bulletin.
Scene of Bitter Fighting.
There has been bitter fighting in this
sector for several days and a repulse
for the French when they advanced In
strong force near Monacu farm was
claimed yesterday by Berlin. South of
the Somme, near Estrees, a German
trench is reported by Paris to have
ueep won in a French attack.
Today's official statement dealing
with British operations on the Somme
front is as follows:
"Last night some further progress
was made in the hostile trenches east
rf Pozieres, where fighting at close
quarters by small detachments has
been in progress.
"Hostile counter attacks delivered
after dark yesterday evening against
our new trenches to the west of High
wood failed to get through our artil
iery Darrage."
Renewed Effort at Verdun.
Apparently the Germans are making a
mewed effort to force the issue at Verun.
Paris last night reported heavy
ttacks east of the Meuse, in which the
rench lines were temporarily penetrated
i some sectors. Today the French war
'ice admits that in the continuance of
hese attacks the French lines have been
ushed a little farther back in the Vaux-<*hapitre
wood and at Chenois, northt
of Verdun.
'n air fighting along the Somme front,
??re thirty-three aerial engagements
ok place yesterday, the French claim \
otable successes. Fifteen German ma- j
,nes were driven out of action, seri
ly damaged, by the French airmen,
ccordfng to Paris, one of these aircraft
;ig seen to fall in flames.
Tak? Strong German Work.
PARIS, August 2, noon.?North of the
River Somme last night French troops
took a powerfully fortified German work
between Hem wood and Monacu farm, it
was officially announced by the French
war department this afternoon.
On the right bank of the River Meuse,
north of the fortress of Verdun, there !
was a violent series of engagements ;
throughout the night at Vaux-le- ;
Chapitre wood and Chenois, expanding ]
to the east as far as to the south of
Damloup. After a series of unsuccess- i
ful attacks, some with asphyxiating j
gas. the Germans gained a little ground j
In Vaux-le-Chapltre wood and at
Chenois. During the actions the French
took prisoner 100 Germans, including
three Officers.
A Russian reconnoitering party, the '
statement adds, made a bayonet charge !
In the Champagne region, dispersing a
German detachment.
Estimates of the Mpn I n?t
-WW*
and Results of Offensive
in Battle on River Somme
BERLIN, August 2, by wireless to '
Sayvllle.?"According to a very cautious
valuation," says a statement issued by
the German army headquarters, "the i
total Anglo-French losses in the Somme
offensive will reach 350.000 officers and
men." The official statement says:
"A rronth has elapse*! since the great
Anglo-French thrust, called in England
the 'great sweep,' during which, ac- j
cording to the enemy's previous an- j
nouncement, a decision had to be obtained
under all circumstances by the
enemy.
"On the twenty-eight-kilometer (sev- \
enteen miles) front the enemy advanced j
four kilometers (two and a half miles) 1
in the average, but after his expertences
of July 20. 22, 24 and 26 he will j
not affirm that the German line has j
even been shaken at any place.
French Losses Also Severe.
"This 'success* cost the British at '
least 230,000 men, according to a very J
cautious valuation. For the French
losses there are no accurate foundations,
but since the French had to do
the biggest part of the Job, and even
taking Into consideration their superior
fighting skill, the total enemy losses
will reach 350,000. The German losses
cannot be compared to these figures.
"As the result of the slow progress
made by the offensive, we have had time
to construct new fortifications behind our ,
| actual lines identical to those lost. In j
j order to illustrate the facts mentioned in
the foregoing:. It Is stated that In the
first fnonth of the fighting at Verdun we
gained double the amount of territory,
while the German casualties were no
larger than we could afTord."
Net Result of Offensive.
PARIS, August 2.?The net result of the
British offensive on the River Somme
from the 1st to the 15th of July is stated
officially to be that the whole first German
position between Ovillers and Montauban,
and the greater part of the second
German position fell into British
hands. Seven villages were retaken and
12,000 officers and men were made prisoner.
The military material seized included
thirty-five field guns, a naval gun,
an anti-aircraft gun, several large howitzers
and an enormous quantity of machine
guns, trench cannon and munitions.
Twenty-one enemy aeroplanes were
hrniipht Hfiu-n hovnnH nnoctlnn A rl (17P tl
I were seen falling head downward to
earth.
Tne German losses in men, the statement
says, must have been serious. The
Germans have had to call numerous re|
serves, and have brought to the Somme
front within the period treated twelve
divisions which were reposing or in other
sectors. The average loss is consequently
estimated at about one division daily.
Strength of German Army.
, r.ertr- 'rmv ?'+.4x* western
f-roiit," to *Jp.ioritative
sources here, consists of 122 divisions,
comprising much more than half the
German forces in the field. The precise
strength of the divisions is unj
known, some consisting of tw? brigades
[ and others of three. Two brigade di[
visions on a war footing have 14,000
men, and three brigades, 21,000, hence
the total strength of the force on this
front is assumed to be somewhere between
1,700,000 and 2,500,000.
Numerous prisoners recently taken
are or the 1917 class, that is, from
nineteen to twenty years old.
It appears that Germany transferred
twenty-three divisions from the eastern
to the western front at the conclusion
of the Russian campaign in
the autumn of 1915. Only four divisions
were withdrawn from this
front in June and sent to Galicia to
help hold back the Russian invasion.
The simultaneous pressure on both
fronts by the entente allies thus pre- ,
vents the transfer of troops from one
frontier to another.
Trenches "Completely Demolished."
BERLIN. August 2, via London, 5:11
p.m.?On the highroad between Maricourt
and Clery, in the region of the
River Somme, French troops penetrated
"to our completely demolished
trenches," says the official statement
issued today by the German army headquarters.
The Germans captured a hill in the
salient northeast of Fort Souville in
the region of Verdun.
PRESIDENTISFIRM
IN SUFFRAGE STAND
Unlikely to Favor Congressional
Action Despite Attitude
of Mr. Hughes.
INFLUENCE ON WOMEN
MAY AFFECT ELECTION
Mr*. Catt and Mr*. Roessing Vainly
Reiterate Arguments, Already
Presented, at White Honse.
The outlook today Is that President
Wilson, despite all-the pressure upon him,
will not change his attitude toward woman
suffrage and will continue, throughout
the campaign, to hold that the question
is for each separate state to settle,
notwithstanding the statement of Mr.
H?ighes' views that a constitutional
amendment providing for woman suffrage
should be submitted to the country and
that the question should be promptly
settled.
Mr. Hughes' attitude is expected to
align a majority of the woman voters
in suffrage states in his behalf and put
to work for him thousands of women in
the country who are advocating suffrage
throughout the nation.
In the face of the known strength that
may go 10 the republican candidate because
of his attitude, President 'Wilson
stands, as he has from the beginning of
his administration, upon the position that
woman suffrage must be settled by the
states.
Reiterates Previous Stand.
Within the last two years President
Wilson has received many delegations
of women who have argued strongly
that he should lend a helping hand to
the efforts to have Congress submit
the question to the country in the
form of a constitutional amendment.
The latest call was made yesterday
afternoon, when the President conferred
with Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, 1
president, and Mrs. Frank M. Koessing. 1
vice president, of the National Woman ]
Suffrage Association. This association j
is to hold its annual convention in At- I
lantic City in September and tne organization
will then determine whether it I
will throw its support to Hughes.
The visitors again presented the
strongest arguments possible to induce
the President to change his mind, and !
when they left the White House they
said the President had not closed his!
tnind against the advisability of supporting
a suffrage amendment. It be-!
came known officially today, however,!
that there is little likelihood of a
change of front on his part. Therefore
the candidates of the two big parties
will tHfftk r- u-lrfalv ,, i., < - - -
e>'"?6 yruiHioe mai
woman suffrage will become somewhat
of a national issue, lending liveliness to
the campaign from the beginning.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senate.
Met at 10 a.m.
Continued debate on District of
Columbia appropriation bill.
Army appropriation bill conferees
resumed deliberations.
Hanne.
Met at noon.
Naval conferees continued
hearings on navy personnel increases.
Open-air exercises held attending
unveiling of statuary on
pediment of House wing of Capij
tol building.
i DEUTSCHLAND SEEN
OFF TANGIER SOUND
Pushes Toward the Virginia
Capes, But Has Not Yet Been
Sighted in Lower Bay.
AEROPLANES SIGHTED
HOVERING OVER WATER
On a Allied Worshin Lvincr Out
side Three-Mile Limit, According
to Report.
NORFOLK. Vn.. A meant 2.?At 2
o'clock the Deutschland had not been
sighted at the capes. Daring the early
afternoon .a two-fnnneled warship
came near the three-mile line for a
while and then disappeared.
OLD POINT, Va., August 2.?
Eighteen hours after the German
merchant submarine Deutschland
had sailed from Baltimore on her
return voyage to Germany she
still had not been sighted at the
Virginia capes or in Hampton
roads and nothing had been heard
from her since'6:30 o'clock this
morning, when she was reported
to have been sighted off Tangier
sound, about sixty miles up
Chesapeake bay.
Although when last sighted she was reported
to be making sixteen knots, the
Deutschland apparently has been proceeding
at a much slower rate of speed.
I On the trip up the bay after her arrival
| off the capes only seventeen hours were
required for the run from Hampton roads
to Baltimore.
Much surprise was occasioned nere oy
reports brought by passengers on an incoming
coastwise steamer that only one allied
warship was on guard today off
the capes. It is this blockade that the
Deutschland will be forced to evade when
she makes her dash to sea.
A peculiar looking object, lying low in
the water, with two masts visible, was
observed by the passengers on the
steamer, and it was noticed that the foreign
cruiser was heading directly toward it
Persons on the liner could not make J
out what the object was. It appeared to
resemble a submarine, but looked more .
like two huge buoys with masts above. J
Whether or not they could have been
floaters supporting a net was the more
Interesting speculation discussed among
the passengers. Whatever the object was,
it lay Just outside the three-mile limit, 1
where the channel is very narrow. 1
Two Aeroplanes Over Bay.
Two aeroplanes were seen flying ^
over lower Chesapeake bay at Hamp- c
ton roads shortly after daybreak this I
morning. They were not from the At- *
lantic coast aeronautical station here. >
Whether or not they came from the ?
armored cruiser North Carolina or one )
of the allied cruisers on patrol off the *
Virginia capes could not be ascertained.
The machines maneuvered back and f
forth over the water at a moderate al- j
titude, apparently on the watch for the
Deutschland.
That the Deutschland probably will j
reach the Virginia capes by 2 o'clock
was the statement of a party of motion
picture men which has just reached Old
Point.
They left Baltimore by launch and *
followed the Deutschland for a while, j
but her speed was slow, so they went
back to Baltimore and took the train.
Sailing Plans Guarded.
BALTIMORE, August 2.?The sailing
plans of the Deutschland were a care'
fully guarded secret, but when she left
Baltimore there was a belief that she
would proceed direct to Newport News.
On the other hand, there was an expectation
in some quarters that the
submersible would seek a quiet cove
or inlet somewhere in lower Chesa- f
peake bay and there await a favorable
opportunity to make a dash through
the allies' blockade off the capes.
No other seafaring men at war ever
have been recorded as the heroes of
such an exploit as Capt. Paul Koenig
; and the crew of the German submarine
freighter Deutschland began yesterday.
They began it. not only as heroes 8
unique in history, but as seamen tired
of three weeks on land and happy to
be at sea again. r
Left Her Pier at Sunset. ^
The submersible was towed out of the fl
slip at Baltimore, where she was o
berthed twenty-three days ago, at 5:40 c
o'clock yesterday afternoon. e
After getting into midstream the tow f
line of the tug Thomas F. Timmins was
cast off, and the Deutschland proceeded c
down the Patapsco river under her own n
power. f
Capt. Koenig and his crew of twentyseven
men put to sea with the knowl- o
edge that a man hurried to a telephone t
with a message to agents for the entente
allies that the Deutschland had
started. They knew how long he had
watched at the end of a nearby pier, a
day and night, but the little captain t
went out of Baltimore harbor smiling o
and waving his cap. His last words in
the harbor were of praise for America *
and for his treatment here by Balti- ii
more customs authorities. To Guy 8
Steele, surveyor of customs, he said: 8
"We came here dubious about our re- P
ception. We go back certain that the r
friendliest of feeling exists in America t
for Germany. You have been more
than courteous, and the fatherland will 7
not forget it." 7
| Capt. Koenig knows that eight war- a
ships of the entente allies are waiting
! for him at the edge of the three-mile c
! limit, spread out in a radius of five I
I miles. 1
Will Pass Between Warships. r
s
"We shall have to pass unseen within
that radius in order to escape," he 1
said. "We snait nave 10 maae mat
passage under conditions not entirely
advantageous to us. Were the water at
that point 160 feet deep it would be
easier. We could submerge deeply
enough to pass underneath the warships.
But the water there is not 150
feet deep. We shall, therefore, have to
pass between the warships."
But there was a determined look on
the captain's face as he expressed confidence
that he would get through.
There were not more than a hundred 4
persons in the vicinity of the pier when
the Deutschland came out from behind
the screen of barges, and besides two
newspaper dispatch boats there only
were four launches in the stream. But
the spectators cheered and waved handkerchiefs
in unison with the cheering
ind waving from the sailors on board
the interned North German Lloyd
steamer Neckar. The sun was setting
in a clear sky and its rays were re- j
fleeted from the still waters as the ]
little craft started. On the conning i
1
ower of the submersible, at the feet
>f her little commander, there was a
lugre basket of roses and white flowers,
he last gift of a Baltimore admirer
vhose name Capt. Koenig never may
enow.
TO WORD FROM THE BREMEN.
Kight Arrive at Baltimore Tomorrow,
Says American Agent.
BALTIMORE. August 2.?No word |
ias b?en heard from the Bremen, the
)eutschland's sister ship, since it left
3remerhaven, according to Paul G. L.
11 lken. a member of the Eastern Forvarding
Company, the American agents
>f the Deutschland. Purely as a guess,
dr. Hilken said today the Bremen may
irrive at Baltimore any time after tonorrow.
He did not know the date on 3
vhich she left the German port, he
laid. He admitted that preparations
vere going on at the Locust Point pier, a
ust vacated by the Deutschland, to receive
another submarine. Mr. Hilken
lIso said his company had cargo stored
n every large port on the Atlantic seaward.
Mr. Hilken talked concerning the line
>f submarine merchantmen which the
Deutsch Ozean Rheiderei, builders and
>wners of the Deutschland and Bremen,
jropose to establish between Germany
Lnd America. One of the submersibles
>f the line will be named the America,
le said, and another will be called the
Baltimore.
NEW YORK PREPARES
FOR A BIG CAR SHE
2
u.a. j ai-a aa.'.i. "ir.i.. t? J t
>uuc una v>ny ujucmib jumulc xvcauy i
to Deal With a General I s
Tie-Up.
?> p
t
NEW YORK, August 2.?New York r
tate and city authorities are prepar- *
ng to deal with a great strike of street
ailway employes, which, if begun, is
xpected to tie up virtually the whole
treet railway service of the city. Of- p
cers of the Amalgamated Association tl
f Street Railway Men who are in h
harge of the efforts to organize the s
mployes in order to force a demand n
or recognition of the union and an in- d
Tease in pay said today that they were
iearly ready to present their demands I
0 the New York Railways. Company, I
perating most of the surface lines in *
he borough of Manhattan.
Officers of this company are preparng
to resist the demands of the men
,nd are establishing dormitories and
raining new employes in the operation
f cars to take the places of strikers.
The labor leaders declined to disclose ?
heir plan for extending the strike. It *
1 not known whether they will do so
xadually or continue their work of oranization
and of bringing the emloyes
into their union until they are
eady to call a simultaneous strike
hroughout the whole city.
The first step toward organizing the
,003 employes of the Brooklyn Rapid
rransit Company was taken last night &
ind continued today. c
Mayor Mitchel having failed to in- .
luce the disputants to arbitrate the
>ublic service commission intervened t
oday by summoning representatives g
f both sides to a hearing this afterloon,
so as to bring out all the facts
ind submit them to public criticism. u
The threatened tie-up of every car o
ine in Greater New York is to be only
he first step in a nation-wide strike 8
f street car men in order to win the e
inion's demand for the right to or- o
ranize everywhere, it was stated tolay
by Louis Prediger, counsel for
k* iininn orsranizers. t!
"This Is to be a country-wide af- t
air," Mr. Fredlgrer declared. "The or- v
ranizingr of street railway men Is progressing:
rapidly. Attention is to be "
entered first on New York city." e
e c
rames S. Brailey, Sr., Biei in Toledo 1
TOLEDO, Ohio, August 2.?James S. v
3ralley. sr.. sixty-seven years old. for b
i quarter of a century a prominent facer
in Ohio politics, died suddenly at 0
lis home late last night from apoplexy. b
ie was recognised as a leader of the t
roraker faction in northwestern Ohio, t
vhere he was regarded as a "wheel
jorse." For many years he was a
prominent tgure in state conventions. v
He Is survived by his widow, three sis- b
ters and two sons. b
iii
LULL IN INFANTRY
Fllll EAST
Petrograd Reports the Repulse
of Small Attacks Made
by Teutons.
PETROGRAD. August 2, via London,
1:30 p.m.?Announcing that attempts
nade by small German detachments to
ittack the Russian positions on the west:rn
front were repelled b yrifle fire, the
Russian official statement issued today
lays:
"Western front: Rifle and artillery
iuels are proceeding at various places,
attempts made by small enemy detach
nents to attack our positions were replied.
"An enemy aeroplane bombarded a
ransport containing wounded near
)usitchi, on the Vladimir-Volyneki^utsk
route, killing one and injuring
wenty already wounded men. The
tame aeroplane also bombarded the divisional
hospital at Dusitchi, killing one
ind injuring eight hospital orderlies.
"Caucasian front: Our advance coninues."
Lull on Lutsk Sector.
VIENNA, August 1, via London, August
.?The war office communicr.tion issued
oday says :
"Obviously, owing to the heavy losses
ustained, the Russian attacks west and I
lorthwest of Lutsk have ceased. I
"On the other hand, the Russians have i
rosecuted with undiminished violence j
heir attacks north of the Upper Turya
iver, at the bend of the Stokhod near
Caszowka and north of the Sarny-Kovel
ailroad. All the attacks were repulsed."
Says Russian 'Attacks Failed.
BERLIN, August 2, via London, 5:11
?.m.?With regard to the operations on
he eastern front, the official statement
ssued by the war office today says that
everal Russian attacks against the Gerlan
positions in the Stokhod sector broke
own.
{AILROAD STRIKE VOTE
COUNT NEARLY FINISHED
robably Will Be Almost Unanimous
to Walk Out if Demands
Are Defused.
NEW YORK, August 2.?A commite?
of fifty men continued today the
ounting of the strike vote cast by
00,000 employes on 225 railroad sysems
in the United States. Timothy
hea, who is in charge of the counting,
aid he believed the vote will be almost
nanimous to quit work if the railway
fficials persisted in their refusal to
:rant the demands of the men for an
ight-hour day and time and a half for
vertime.
The counters expect to finish today
he counting of the vote in the eastern
erritory. They will then take up the
western vote. When the final result is
mown a mass meeting will be held to
xplain the controversy to the 600
hairmen of the adjustment commitees
of the four brotherhoods of railway
workers, who have brought the
allots here to be counted.
A meeting of the national conference
ommlttee of the railways will be held
er next Tuesday to make another atempt
to settle the differences between
he railroads and the men.
The ballots counted today are mainly
otes of the eastern and southern memers
of the "Big Pour" railway brotharoods.
The wester^ and southwestern
\
ill . ,
j'f
[l ii ! '
Hi! '' '
f||f LI L
]
chairmen will arrive in a few days with
the ballots from their respective communities.
Opposition by Eastern Men.
It is expected that the lowest number
of votes cast in favor of the strike will
come from the eastern members of the
railway unions. However, no matter
what the number of votes cast against
the strike by the eastern men, there is
practically no doubt that the majority
of them favor the strike, it was as- j
serted. ? 3
Thus far the largest number of votes 1
in favor of the strike have been cast
by the members from the south. One
of the southerners who is in touch ^
with the vote counting- predicted today j
that the vote from his section would ]
run approximately as follows: En- (
gineers, 96 per cent; trainmen, 98 per ]
cent; firemen, 99% per cent, and con- 1
ductors, 94 per cent. i
An official of the Southern Associa- j
tion of Trainmen, who is in close touch i
with the situation, declared today that i
99% per cent of the members of the <
four orders of railway workers of the
south favor the strike. i
It had been expected that the count- 1
ing of the vote would be complete by ?
August 7, but at the rate the count t
is being made it ought to be com- 1
pleted before that, unless there should i
be some unexpected delay. f
WILL NOT TALK POLITICS
ON VISIT TO KENTUCKY ?
1
2
1
Lincoln Address Only One President 1
Will Make There Early *
in September. J
t
Kentucky democrats, somewhat up- |
set because Charles E. Hughes is to s
ODen the camDaien in that stato with a
a speech at Lexington September 5, today
urged President Wilson to set the
^all rolling for that party by speaking j,
Ai Winchester September 5. g
The President long ago accepted an ^
rnvitation to visit Hodgensville, the r
birthplace of Lincoln, September 4, and h
accept for the nation the property that *
was acquired by the Lincoln Memorial e
Association. He has prepared a patri- f
otic speech touching upon the great s
services Lincoln rendered the nation, *]
and the appropriateness of the action ?
of Congress in accepting the birthplace .
of the great President for the nation. v
v
Refuses to Accept. t:
When Senator James and Representa- e
tives Cantrill and Rouse today asked n
the president to stop at Winchester
the day after his Lincoln speech and q
make a political address he said that
he did not desire to make the occasion
of his trip a political one and could
not accept their invitation. He may
go to Kentucky later in the campaign. .
The democratic visitors indicated to
the President that Kentucky is de- la
batable ground in November next and c<
that Candidate Hughes may stir the fi
republicans into a hot fight. n:
T
Becord for Great Lakes Ore Carriers, h
DETROIT, Mich., August 2.?Great "j
lakes ore carriers established a new ^
record in the month of July, loading sj
9,750,157 tons, which exceeds by 242,581 b<
tons the movement in June, which at al
the time was thought to have set a p.
mark that would stand for the year. ai
Up to August 1 ore shipments for the ei
season aggregated 29,365,724 tons, a tl
gain of more than 5,000,000 tons over J*
1913, the banner year of the trade. Vessel
men predict that the year's move- {J
ment will approximate 59,000,000 tons. -
. a
ti
Luncheon in the Speaker's Boom. ?
The Speaker and Mrs. Clark enter- d
talned at luncheon today, In their pri- w
vate dining room at the Capitol, Paul ?
Bartlett. the Sculptor, and Mrs. Bartlett,
Mrs. James R. Mann, Representative
Cannon, Representative and Mrs. p
Slayden, Representative Kettner, Rep- tt
resentatlve Danforth, Mr. and Mra a
Elliott Woods, Mrs. Busby, M. Piche- ei
rilll and Bennett Clark, fa
UNVEILING RITES
HELDATCAPITOL
Impressive Ceremonies as
Bartlett Statuary on House
Pediment Is Undraped.
SCULPTOR DESCRIBES
ALLEGORICAL FIGURES
Speaker Clark and Representative
Slayden Make Addresses
Fitting to Occasion.
The exercises attending the unveiling
of the statuary of the
pediment of the House wing of
the United States Capitol today
were so favored by sunshine and
other circumstances as to make
them among the prettiest and
still most impressive among all
the various unveiling ceremonies
the city of Washington has seen.
The pediment, which is the triangular
space above the columns of the House
portico, faces the great stretch of
greensward across the plaza from the
Capitol, and it was upon this soft
lawn, under a great spreading tree,
that Speaker Clark and Representative
Slayden and the sculptor, Paul Bartlett,
spoke briefly to a gathering of
people there. Including senators and
members of the House and their wives
a.nd daughters and friends. The Martno
Rand In full nt.r en firth, was there
ilso. to make the unveiling more of a
success.
Gives History of Work,
Representative James E. Slayden of
Texas, chairman of the House committee
on library, the committee which
prepares and passes upon legislation
authorizing the erection of statuary,
was the chairman of the unveiling ceremonies,
and read a telegram from the
former chairman, Samuel McCall of
Massachusetts, who was the author of
the bill resulting in the sculpture. Representative
Slayden gave a brief history
of the work, beginning with the
passage of the law authorizing itr
sight years ago.
"I suppose." he said, "there are still
i few people who believe that such an
investment as this is a waste of public
money. These are people who mistake
^rudeness and bareness for the noble
simplicity that should characterize a
lemocracy. They seem to resent beauty
md dignity in public buildings that
louse the legislative and executive
todies of the government.
Proud of Temple of Democracy.
"But that is not true of all the people;
and if any such Philistines remain
Lhey should stand for an hour on this
:>laza and observ^^heir wondering and
ielighted fellow countrymen when
viewing the Capitol for the first time,
[n their glowing faces one can read
:he pride of ownership and pleasure in
ts magnificence. Every American is
lustly proud of this temple of democracy,
open to all the people all the time,
md* into which his prayers and his
jommands never fail to penetrate."
The Marine Band played the national
inthem, and as the people upon the
awn arose the white-clad sailors, who
(eemed to be clinging like swallows to
he sides and top of the House portico,
oosed the ropes and the canvas coverngs
over the sculpture fluttered to the
ground.
TPoorriViac tViA ftrnnn
The sculptor, Paul Bartlett, described
he group. He said:
"An allegorical group of two figures,
Peace Protecting Genius,' fills the
enter of the pediment. Peace, an armed
Peace, stands erect, draped in a mantle
vhich almost completely hides her
ireastplate and coat of mail; her left
inn rests on her buckler, which is suplorted
by the altar at her side, in the
>ackground the "olive tree' of peace.
"Her right arm is extended in a gesure
of protection over the youthful and
ringed figure of Genius, who nestles
onfidingly at her feet and holds in his
ight hand the torch of Immortality.
"The composition is completed by
wo other groups symbolising and
ypifying the two great fundamental
iving powers of labor, the two great
ources of wealth, agriculture and inustry.
Callings Are Exalted.
"The most modest of our farmers and
aborers can find in these groups the
ymbol of his own self and of his enleavors;
he may even find there his own
esemblance, and he will see that his
elpmate, his children, his cattle and
he harvest from his fields have been
xalted and carved in marble forms.
"The printer, the ironworker, the
ounder can do the same, and enjoy the
ame profound satisfaction. The toilig
factory girl, weaver or spinner of
extiles will observe that she has not ;
een forgotten, and those who are de- ;
oted to the sea can discover a group
rhich will remind them of the joys of
heir vocation.
"A wave terminates the sculpture at ;
ither end of the pediment, and is '
leant to indicate that all this humanly,
all its power and energy are comrised
between the shores of the two '
ceans, the Atlantic and Pacific." <
Speaker Clark's Address.
Speaker Clark said, in part:
"Washington is the finest capital city <
i the world. The United States has the 1
irgest homogeneous population of any J
Duntry in the world and we have the j
nest Capitol building in the world, a t
.nHol fnr r*nr?itnl hiiilrlintrs ?v?rvurha>-a
his sculpture Is the finishing touch to <
le Capitol building, especially to the 1
;ouse of Representatives. The first f
lan to upraise his voice in oratory in
lat House building was Sunset Cox, I
nd if all the oratory delivered there t
nee that time should be printed In c
ooks the world wouldn't contain them t
IL"
The Speaker was applauded when he J
iid a tribute to the Monroe doctrine '
nd predicted that it would be strength- c
ned and not weakened. r
"Those dilettante writers who say "
tie Monroe doctrine is a fake don't v
now what they are talking about." ?
e said. "We will not only maintain it. 1
ut we will strengthen it. The Monroe
octrlne says that we take the counties
of the western hemisphere under
ur wing and that European nations
ho lay hands on it will suiter. We
on't want our neighbors' lands, but h
-e want our neighbors to be free." o
The Speaker said that when Col. 1
.oesevelt spoke of the Monroe doc-ine
in Chile he caused a riot. li
The various speakers paid their comliments
to the co-operation and aid ii
iward making the pediment statuary a
success granted by the superintend- o
nt of the Capitol. Elliott Woods, and tl
is staff. Jj. a
SENATE IN FAVOR It
I OFNEWD.C.TAX
Adopts Amendment to Appropriation
Bill for One on In- I
tangible Property. . J
RULING PREVENTS TACKING
1 ON PROHIBITION MEASURE
Senator Jones Loses in Effort to Put
"Dry" Bill on District Money .
Legislation. " , 51
- 'l- U
By a vote of 51 to 12 the Senate
todav adonted an ammilmfni
to the District appropriation bill
providing for a tax on intangible
personal property, including
money, stocks and bonds, etc.
The tax rate is fixed at fourtenths
of 1 per cent. The amend- v
ment was offered by Senator j
Sterling of South Dakota.
An effort to attach the prohibi- )
tion bill for the District to tha j
District appropriation bill as an }
amendment was made by Senator
Jones of Washington.
The proposed amendment was ruled
out of order by Senator Walsh of Montana,
who occupied the chair, on the
ground that it was general legislation
upon an appropriation bill. The point
of order against the amendment waa
made by Senator Martine of New Jersey.
Declines to Make Appeal.
Senator Jones, declaring that hg
would not seek to embarrass the Sen* \
ate In view of its decision that the
amendment providing for a tax on intangible
personal property was in order,
declined to take an appeal from
the ruling of the chair, and so the prohibition
amendment was lost.
Senator Jones offered his prohibition
amendment as an amendment to the
amendment offered by Senator Sterling.
The Senate, by a vote of 35 to 23, held
Senator Sterling's amendment in order.
tiuiuuBii a pumi ui uiuer utLU ueon
made against It that ft was general
legislation on an appropriation bill.
Senator Jones insisted that his prohibition
amendment was no more general
legislation than was the Sterling
amendment. If the Senate had ruled
one in order, he said, there could be
no question that the other was in order.
He pointed out that the prohibition
amendment had an even better
standing than the Sterling amendment,
since it was in fact a bill which had
been reported to the Senate by the Senate
District committee, and the Sterling
amendment had never been considered
by the Senate District committee.
Delighted at Action of James.
"I was delighted to hear Senator
James of Kentucky," said Senator
Jones, "urge the adoption of the Sterl- 1
lng amendment and suggest that the
Senate was just as ready to act upon
that amendment now as it would bo
after any further investigation. I am
glad that the senator from Kentucky
voted to hold the Sterling amendment
in order."
Senator James is an ardent opponent
of Drohibition in the District.
Wants Tax Laws Investigated.
An amendment offered by Senator
Gallinger was adopted providing fop
an Investigation of the tax laws of the
District by a joint committee com*
posed of the Senate and House District
committees or by subcommittees.
The joint committee is to report at the
next session of Congress.
Senator Gallinger suggested that
such a study of the tax laws might result
in the reduction of some of the
taxes Imposed here, particularly the
licenses taxes. 4
Senator Kern of Indiana moved to
strike from the bill the appropriation
heretofore agreed to by the Senate providing
for the purchase of the Patterson
and Dean tracts for park purposes
and for the purchase of land near the
Zoo Park as provided in Senator
Stone's amendment and for the purchase
of the Klingle Ford tract as provided
in the Sterling amendment adopted
yesterday.
Senator Kern gave as his reason for
this motion the large appropriation
which the government is called upon
to make this year, including an appropriation
of more than $500,000 for flood
sufferers in the south passed by the
Senate yesterday.
Newlands Amendment Up. * i
When the Senate met today the Newlands
amendment, providing that $5,000
of the $60,000 appropriated for completing
the new flsh market should be
used, or as much thereof as is neces- .
sary, for the purpose of having plans
made for the d'evelopment of the water
front, commercially and artistically,
by a board of engineer officers in conjunction
with the fine arts commission,
was first considered.
Senator Newlands pointed out that
there was about a mile of water front
3f Washington that was in a hopeless
condition today, and his amendment
was to provide a plan for remedying
these defects.
C.nntnr tlmith n f Marvlan/l S?natn*
jallinger of New Hampshire and others
naintained that all of the $60,000 was
leeded to complete the fish market and
should not be diverted to another purpose.
They insisted thr.t the plans for
;he fish market, the new fish market
vharves and the central power plant
'or the government buildings had all
>een made, and no other commission
or considering them was needed.
Senator Newlands replied that while
?lans may have been made for these
>uildings, still there was a long stretch
>f water front for which no plans had
>een made.
Finally, on the suggestion of Senator
ones of Washington. Senator Newlands
vithdrew that part of his amendment
sailing for an expenditure of $5,000 fof
naking these plans and left the amendnent
providing for the preparation of the
irater-front plans by the army engineers
nd the fine arts commission. In that
orm it was adopted by the Senate.
Intangible Property Tax Debated.
An amendment was then offered by
lenator Sterling of South DpJcota providag
for levying a tax of 4-10 of 1 per cent
n intangible personal property in the 1
Hstrlct.
The amendment proposed was as fol)W8:
"That the moneys and credits, includig
moneys loaned and invested, bond*
nd shares of stock (except the stock
f banks and other corporations within i
he District of Columbia the taxation of .
rhich banks and corporation* 1/0 hereiir
i
