f
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
a -. PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, AUGUST 2, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 7G
SUESEA HONSHU STARTS t RE!
OH IIP
X?
Second Anniversary Of War Finds Positions Very DifferenAMlWMW
H ILL K Wtil Ul
fiiTmrc im rai7An nr nnrrn nr ni ninr unlLr JUI1L flL
ENTENTE HUES PURSUING
SUGGESSFUL OFFENSIVE AND
TEUTONS AHE ON DEFENSIVE
-
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
LONDON, Aug. 1. The second anniversary of Germany's declaration of
war on Russia finds the relative positions of the belligerents very different
from those of the first anniversary. The entente allies now are pursuing a
successful offensive on all fronts and the central powers are nearly every
whe'c on the defensive.
Emperor William celebrated the occasion by the issue of proclamations to
his army and navv and people, which breathed a spirit of continuous confi
dence in ultimate victory for Germany. ,
The operation on the eastern front continues to surpass those in the west
in di amatic interest. Military, critics express great admiration for the Rus
sian tactics, one of the important objects of which, in their opinion, has
been to separate the Austrians from the German armies on the Russian
front. This, it now is claimed, has been virtually accomplished by the Rus
sians, driving a wedge into the Austro-German positions along the front of
Kovel-Vladimir Volynsk.
The view here is that if the Germans have thus accepted severance from
the Austrians, the most decisive result of the whole of the Russian Gen
eral Brussiloff's strateav will have been obtained, it being argued by the
military observers that without German support the Austrian armies will be
come demoralized and collapse.
The critics sav that the Austrian forces between the Lipa and Dniester
nv'S are doomed. There has been no confirmation of the report received
in Rome that Kovel and Vladimir-Volynsk have been evacuated, but Rome
is usually well informed on Russian news."
A correspondent with the Russian forces has reported that the roads
toward Kovel, "are black with the retreating enemy."
Exactly where General Brussiloff's next blow will fall is not known.
The Russians are virtually within the same distance of both Kovel and
Vlad'mir-Volynsk, and also are pressing closer toward Lemberg.
Since Sunday's combined advance on the Somme line by the British
and French, the situation there has been comparatively quiet. The French
have sustained the brunt of the German counter attacks launched against
positions captured in this region. , . . . . j
The Germans claim to have driven back the British who had penetrated
on a narrow front west of Foureaux wood and to have repulsed successfully
an eightfold French attack in the neighborhood .of Maurepas. There has
however, been no important change in the line since the Anglo-French ad
vance last Sunday.
Men Of French
Army Praised
By Their Chiefs
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS, Aug. 1. The Bulletin des
Armees, the official Jnunial of the
Fiddlers of the French army, will pub
lish tomorrow copies of letters written
by President Poincaire, Divid Lloyd
George. British secretary of war, ami
General Sir Douglas Haig, commander
of the British troops In France, to
gether with an order of the day issued
l.y General .loffre to the French army
on the occasion of the second anni
versary of the outbreak of the war.
The order of General .loffre follows:
"Soldiers c.f the Republic: Your
third year of fighting Has begun. For
two years past you have been suplsirt
li.g with unfailing strength the weight
of an implacable conflict. You have
caused ull the pluns of our enemies
to fail. You vanquished them on the
Marne; you checked them on the Ysef,
and you beat them in the Arters and
In the Champagne at a time when they
PLACE MURDER CHARGE
AGAINST FRANCISCANS I
SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 1. j
Warren K. Billings, ex-convict,
and Edward 1. Nolan, former j
labor leader, were formally
ennrged with murder in the police '.
I court here today, following the
j jwtlice investigation into the
I bomb explosion that killed eight j
! ami wounded forty during San
i Francisco's pieparedness p trade, j
Preparations were also made to- j
day to place similar charges
against Thomas J. Mooney, a la- i
bor agitator, and Lena Monney, j
his wife. All Hie accused are in I
custody. A coroner's jury ren- I
i dered a verdict here today find- i
I ing that the victims of the bomb !
j out rape -came to their death a j
I a result of the explosion of a I
I bomb, placed with criminal in
I tent by a party or parties un- 1
I known.
RIFLES, PISTOLS"
IISILLAMS
SHELLS FOUND
1
HARD SLEDDING FOR
FAKE NEWS MONGERS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL, PASO, Tex.. An. 1 Authorities
were vainly seeking victory on the
plains of Russia. Then your victor- I
...U .e,;lllvr uwMh , inve sti gall ng a recent fire in juarM
months duration broke the German ,.,,,. . , .,. .
ef.a.nn "Unborn courage 1 " "' several thousanu rounds
i, .i. .r ni. . t,.,,.., v , of small arms ammunition believed
obled to manufacture arms, the weight
to have been hidden when Villa eon-
of which our enemies today are ex-1.
trolled the city. Tne'fire aims Were
periencing over their entire front. .""!" " ,ne ire '"'
"The moment is approaching when, P'Uild'ng. a ware .(.use.
under the Btrength f our mutual ad- Dispatches -eived from Mexico
vance, the military power of Germany j f'ity hy Andr !arr' '.. local Mexican
will crumble. consul, said 1' for the first time
"SoldierH of. France, you may be the Carrunza t. vernment Is prepar
proud of the work you already have ins to coin old money. ror lie
accomplished.
"You have determined to see it
through to the end. Victory is certain.
(Signed) "JOFFRE."
President Poincaire wrote:
"For the second time, my friends,
we have to commemorate together, a
soul stirring anniversary. Two years
ago we lived hours that are not to
he formal. Since then, two sections
of mankind have been grappling with
purpose of making twenty pesos
pieces. It was said, fl.rnu.um worth
of 23 mint gold has 'nem purchased
in the capital.
Coder the shadow of dnth, the
mind of Hamon Sol is, a captive Vil
lista leader has given uwav. accord
ing to a e'rdhuahua. City newspaper
arriving- today.
Soils, who achieved notoriety, for
depredations m tie Lagunn district
one another and are fighting amid j belonged to the Martin Iopez bjnd.
streams or blood. i he nations w ho and vu captured near Santa Isabel
have let loose that stupendous catas
trophe have not completely expiated
their act.
"Two years have passed, lnft amid
the fatigues and perils these recollec-
(Continued on Page Two)
SIXTY SOLDIERS KILLED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Xi HULLS, Arir., An;. 1. The ex
it ision of a tar filled with dynamite
Killed sixty and wounded f rty Car-rane-.sta
soldiers at Kmpelme, nc ir
j:iaynias, Sonor.i, a'cording to re
torts received here today. It was
Mated that the Mexican authorities
ure proceeding in their investigation
-n the theory that the explosion was
due to some one deliberately shoot -ln
into the car. Buililinirs in Em-p-ilme
were sairt to be badly injured.
Kmp dme is an important base in the
de facto government campaign
against the Yaipii Indians.
Some 3t) rejected soldiers from the
Connecticut guard organization left
Nokfales today tor home.
-A rifle that urst In the hands at
turret jiractice today blew off the
thumb of Private Junrph Dixon, First
Connecticut infantry. A piece of the
gun barrel also vent through Ser
aeant dould's hat, r.o feet away, in
flicting a scalp wound, nnd several
others received minor injuries from
steel ppli titers.
OKLAHOMA PBDGHESSIVES AI
BACH 111 THE ieillll FOLD
In the lead of his democratic op-
Landson Is Ahead
TOPF.KA, Aug. 1. Returns from
today's primary received up to tl
o'clock tonight showed W. (', Lans
don leading lienl imin S. Caltskill for
thfl democratic nomination for gover
nor. There is no contest on the re
publican ticket. Governor Capper hav
ing no opposition.
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OKLAHOMA CITY, okla., Aug. 1. I ponent, L. A. Martin
Members if the progressive party In
Oklahoma returned to the republican
fold In large number In today's pri
maries, it was claimed tonight by
leaders of the latter party. A wide
Fpread shortage of republican ballots
wis ascribed to under-estimation ft
tli number 'f progressives who I
would vote this ticket.
Interest in the primaries centered
in the prniHised IU racy test amend
ment to the state constitution, which
unofficial returns Indicated was de
feated by a maojrity that might re.o h
15.00H. The test would have dis
frnmhlsed any person unable to read
r write anv section of the utate con
stitution and was admittedly Intended
as a sutistlliite for the famous
'grandfather" law, declared uncon
stitutional by the I'nitec States su
preme court because, in effect, it de
prived netrroes of the right to vote.
Fight other amendments Including
n provision for compulsory or elec
tive compensation hy employers to
employes in cafe of death also met
defeat.
in an attack on a train. He was
tried by military court and con
demned to be shot. On learning this.
said the paper, he was overpowered
by terror and became almost inani
mate. A petition has been presented to
General Trevlno by citizens asking
that the sentence on Soils be chunked
to imprisonment.
General Francisco Gonzales, com
manding Carranz." troops in northern
Chihuahua, today asked General Ja
cinto Trevino In Chihuahua Clt- 'or
orders as to the disposition of the
three bandits captured near San
Ygnacio. Chihuahua. Saturday tieloni;
in to the band which yesterday en
gaged a Joint Command of I'nited
Slates cavalrymen and Carran istas
on American soil about five miles be
low Fort Hancock. Texas. General
Gonzales Intimated that he expects
the outlaws win be taken to Chihua
hua for execution.
The two hundits who escaped
across the Mexican border after t!e
clash, are slill being pursued in the
desert by a detachment under Cap
tain Marcelo Marullo. according to
reports tonight but General Gonzales
said he expected to hear of their
capture shortly.
Ten additional members of the
eighth cavalrv were ordeied from
Fabens, Texas, today to strengthen
the garrison ot Fort Hancock, of
eighteen regular cavalrymen and
about fortv members of C company,
Kighth Massacbusetts infantry.
Colonel Vadles Leal, chief of staff
to General Jacinto Trevlno, comman
der of the Carranza aimy corps of
the northeast, recently visited 'each
of the camps of the L'r.,0H0 national
guardsmen on staticn here, according
to , unofficial report 1 rereived today
at military headquarters. While there
was no confirmation of the reports
it was learned that a man answering
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Ni:V YORK. Aug., I. Charles K.
Hughes, twice today declared himself
in favor of an amendment to the
federal constitution granting the vole
lo women throughout the I'nited
States.
In a letter to Senator Sutherland,
of Ctah. sent in response to a tele
gram, Mr. Hughes stated his personal
view that the proposed amendment
should be submitted by congress to
the stales and ratified. In a speech'
late today before :"n(l women of the
Women's l:oos veil league for Hughes,
the nominee declared the question
was one affecting the whole country
ami that a- favored "taking the short
est sut to its solution."
"I believe this question should be
promptly settled," Mr. Hughes said.
"I see nothing but danger to our
security, to our vnity, to our protier
attitude toward isilitical questions in
continued agitation of this subject."
In his .'.ddres to the league Mr.
Hughes again assailed the administra
tion lor its jsilii v roncernimr Ameri
can rights abroad during the Fur
pean war.
"There is nr. incurable defect of
character in the administration with
tesM-ct to the weaknes and vacilla
tion which have characterized it," he
said "aril we cannot expect improve
ment from this source. We can judge
rv what has been done and by what
has not been done; and we are here
together under circumstances very un
expected to me to see if we cannot
have a srenuine revival of American
sentiment ro that we face the world
erect and prepared."
The nominee also made a luncheon
aihlres today- to about r,D republican
editors of New York state in whii
he said he had twice I een ralld upon
to live down an undeserved rejmta
lion tor coldness and aloofness, and
that he was now passing through the
third evpetience. He invited sym
patheic co-operation.
This address was made after Mr.
Hughes hud dismissed a stenogi-aueer
sent to the luncheon by the national
committee to obtain a vernatim re
port of it. The .nominee said he did
not want his remarks to h taken
down: that he wanted to talk treely
and fully. The luncheon was private.
Tonight Mr. Hughes addressed u
small meeting of social workers in
vited by Herbert Parsons, national I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Aug. I. Gen
eral Funston tonight sent to the war
department at Washington a telegram
announcing his intention to rid the
various guardsmen camps of newspa-
Iter correspondents U'hri sen,) out flse
j accounts of conditions in the camps.
He referred to such correspondents as
"pests," and said he had endured them
as long as he purposed to.
An order has been sent to all dis
trict commanders along the border
covering future action against news
paper men sending out dispatches
which may be classed as untruthful.
In each instance the offender will be
tried by a special court of militia of
ficers from his slate. If found guilty
he will be ordered from camp.
"Th great mass of the guardsmen
are standing the hardships of camp life
well,' said General Funston, "and have
no cause for complaint. It is only
mollycoddles, and sissies who kick.
These are the ones that tell tales to
special correspondents."
The general's telegram which was
sent to the adjutant general, said:
"1 wish to call attention of the war
department to the carnival of lying
being indulged in by many of the cor
respondents who accompanied the
state troops to the border. I have nev
er seen or heard of anything that ap
proaches it for sheer maliciousness and
shamelessness.
"While there are honorable excep
tions, many of these correspondents
are men of no judgment or balance
or have so little experience of the
world that they seem to have no sense
of balance or proportion. Ordinary in
conveniences or deprivations, that to
a man with real soldierly instincts.
are merely subjects for jokes, are mag
nified by them into the most distress
ing stories."
IS
F
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOCGLAS, Ariz., Aug. 1. Prepar
edness in Sonora was not a. bluff
during the recent crisis, accardlng to
an American arriving here today from
Heimosillo. Forty-two cannon of nil
calibre have been shipped from north-
WDODY WEAKENS
WITH HUGHES OUT
FOR SUFFRAGE
n
. ANNAPOLIS, Md.. Aug., 1.
The Deutschland passed Annapo-
lis at 8:4! o clock steaming about I
12 miles an hour. The tug Tim
mins alone was convoying. The
yacht Valiant with photographers
aboard put into this port and re
ported the trip thus far unevent
ful. The coast guard cutter Wis
sahickon left the Deutschland at
Fort Carroll. The weather is
clear, the wind fitful and there is
not much sea.
BALTIMORE, Aug., 1. The
Deutschland pased Cove Point,
Md., sixty miles south of here.at
11:55 p. m.
ern Sonora to the southern portion of American Woman SMiiirage Associa
tion to take a like stanu Alter sne
the urate, since General I'. Elias Cal
les, military commander of the state,
itecided that the crisis had ended. The
gun; ranged in calibre from one inch
rapid fire pieces to four eighty-four
milimcter captured by the Carranza
troops from Villa last winter.
Wiry and full of vigor in suite of
bis sixty-lour years, Brigadier Gen
era! George A. bodd, retired, promot
ed from coloned by special act of
congress for gallantry in the Mexican
campaign, arrived in Douglas today
to visit his former comrades in arms
stationed here and to pay his re
spects . to Brigadier General T. F.
Davis, commanding the Arizona dis
trict, before going to New York to
make his home.
I feci good for ten vears more nf
committeeman for New York, to meet hard service," said General Dodd, "but
th nominee at nn uptown club where 1 realize tnai me regiuai.on ir ie
Uie meeting was private. , tirement at sixty-four is a good one.
" Mr. llcghes expects to leave New I probably make my home in
York loniori iw i fternoon for his sum-lew York."
liter home in Rridgehampton where General Dodd took occasion to cor
he will remain until Saturday when i rect erroneous reports regarding the
he will start on his trip to the Pa-
clfic coast. The intinerary of the
trip, officially announced today, fol
lows: "Leave New York Saturday even
ing, August 5, spend Sunday at Ni
agera halls: leave there Monday,
August 7 for Detroit, where there will
be two evening meetings.
"Leave Iietroit Tuesday morning.
August 8 for Chicago, where there
will be an evening meeting. Leave
Chicago that night for St. Paul and
Minneapolis, where two evening meet
ings will beheld Wednesday, August 9.
"On Thursday. August ) a morn
ing meeting will be held at Grand
Forks. North Dakota, and a night
meeting at Fargo. North Dakota, on
fTiuay. August 11. the entire dav
(Continued on Page Two)
T
BALTIMORE, Aug., 1. The
Deutschland pased Solomon's is
land, 90 miles south, at 2:30 p.
m. 1 She was makiner about 16
knots an hour. The tug Timmins
was at her side. Every steamer
pased blew whistles of salute. I
There was no indication as to j
when the submarine would stop.
It seemed that she was going
right down to the capes.
D c
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE, Md., Aug. L On the
second anniversary of Germany's dec
laration of war against Russia, the
German submarine merchantman
Deutschland set out from Baltimore
on a return voyage to Germany with a
declaration of confidence trom her
commander, Captain Paul Koenig, that
he would take her home in spite of
the heavy odds she would face when
the three mile limit in the Atlantic
ocean is reached.
The submersible was towed out of
the slip where she was berthed 23
days ago at 5:4u o'clock this after
noon and it is expected she will put
into Newport News, Va., between 8
and 9 o'clock tomorrow morning. Af
ter getting into mid-stream, the tow
line of the tug Timmins was cast off
and the Deutschland proceeded down
the river under her own power. The
Timmins went to one side, the coast
guard cutter Wissahickon to the other,
and the harbor police boat Lannan
brought up the rear to prevent undue
crowding by the small fleet of launches
that followed. ,
Annapolis, 30 miles south of here,
reported that the Deutschland passed
there at 8:45 o'clock, steaming about
12 miles an hour. The tug Timmins
alone was convoying, and but one ves
sel was following, a newspaper des
patch boat. Weather conditions at
that time was favorable.
Captain Koenig and his crew of 27
men, put to sea with the knowledge
that a man hurried to- a telephone
with a message to agents for the en
tente allies that the Deutschland had
started. They knew how long he had
watched at the end of a nearby pier,
day and night, but the little captain
went out of Baltimore harbor smiling1
and waving his cap. His last words
in the harbor were of praise for Amer
ica and for his treatment here by Bal-
convention meets in September she timore customs authorities. To Uuy
will urge that "the association's best Steele, surveyor of customs, he said:
hope of victory would lie in preserv- "We came here dubious about our re-
ing the present non-partisan atti- ception. We go back certain that the
(Continued on Page Two) (Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 1. While
Charles E. Hughes was outlining in
New Yolk today his position in lavor
of a tedtral wuraan suffrage amend
ment. President Wilson was being
urged by officials of the National
left the White House, Mrs. Carrie
Chupman Can, president of the as
sociation, said the president was
weakening in his opinion to the fed
eral amendment but had made1 it
plain that he still preferred action on
the question by the states.
Mrs. Catt anil Mrs. Frank M. Roes
sing, chairman of the association's
congressional committee, talked with
the president for nearlv an hour. The
engagement was made several days
ago and word of .Mr. Hughes' an
nouncement did n it reach the capitol
until a short time before the women
went to the White House.
Tonight Mrs. Catt issued a state
ment saying the association was
"highly gratified" over lhe declaration
of the republican nominee. In re
sponse to questions, however, she said
that when tiie organization's national
Charge Price Of News Print
Forced Up By Combination
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug., 1. Charges
that the ptice of news print paper
has oeen forced up exorbitantly by a
will be spent in transit to Helena I combination or manutacturers were
Montana, where a day meeting will ' ma,lc by publishers and denounced
be held on Saturday August 12 ! ,,v representatives of the manufactur-
"stnndntr Ao.,t'i .oi v.-' t I ers. at a hearing today which con-
at Spokane. Washington. anil on! eluded an exhaustive inquiry into the
Monday, August 14, an automobile
trip will be taken into Idaho, where
a morning address will be made at
Coqer d'Alene. An evening meeting
will e held at Spokane, with the de-
(Contlnued on Pope Two)
(Continued on Page Three)
o
Fifty-Seven Die
In One Day Of
Child Paralysis
Vote Almost Universally
Is For Railroad Strike
I of the Brotherhood of Locomotive
Swpnner Is Lead'nn
ST. LOUIS, Aug. 1. John K.
Swangcr was leading his republican
oiioonents in the race for the nomln
Ktion for governor and Frederick D.
'n-dner wn ahead on the democratic
ride, according to returns of today's
priml reeeiCe.l hprp up o nV'tiht.
In the senatorial race, W. S. Dickey
ban a big margin over his opimnents
end apparently Is the rooul lican
choice. Senator James A. Red is far
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
onr.L.h'VrlHZ'ni'Eal!,'tS l '"m"n and Enginemen, said it will
one-fourth of the 4iO,flUO members of I , ,, , ,, , . ,
the four railroad brotherhoods who
y
the federal trade cummis-
;f $250,000 annually. He claimed it worth of paper was held in stock by
was almost impossible for a publisher his company as a neccsary safeguard
to get quctations excepi from the mill for contracts in hand but said the re-
are voting on the question of calling
a general strike on 225 railroads al
ready havp been canvassed and they
nre virtually unanimous In favor of
a strike, it was learned tonight.
The ballot counted here today were
received from the eastern and south
eastern territories and it Is expected
tho count in these districts will be
completed tomorrow. Chairmin of
the general adjustment committee,
representing workers on railroads
west of Chicago and (he Mississippi
river w ill report here. It was said, not
later than next Saturday. Many of
them are exnected 'jnursday
the
suoject
sion
Frank V. Glass, vice president of
the A.neriean Newspaper Publishers
Association, told the committee he
was "morally convinced" there was
colkrsion among the manufacturers
and expected to be able hy October
to present lef.al proof of it. P. T.
Dodge, president of the International
Paper Camiiany. declared present high
prices were due to an enormous in
crease in demand, and insisted that
the manufacturers wre not making
a fair return on their capital.
The commission took the discussion
under advisement and will begin worl:J
immediately drafting a report." Mpm-
Kerc teiwl tni.lfht imA wnilbl he Hllll-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire mittod at the earliest possible moment.
NEW YORK, Aug. 1. With all pre- I Other witnesses at today's hearing
vlous mortality records in the eni- ! Included I H. Zerby, chairman 'if
demic of infantile paralysis here 'the White Pp. per Committee of the
broken today, w hen it was reported ' National Editorial Association, and
that 57 children had died during the I Representative of the Pennsylvania
24 hour period ending at 10 a. m Associated dailies: E. R. Stoll man
Health Commissioner Haven Kmer- nger of the Pittsburg Ppublishers
son found It necessary to call for ad- ( Association; O. N. Andrews of the
ditional beds in hosHuls to care for Raston, Pa.. Freepress; W. L. Tush
thc afflicted. He said tonight that . intrton. of the Camden, N. J., Courier:
1400 beds had been offered and would ' ('- H. Spntz, of the Boyertown, Pa.,
be added to the number available to- Weekly and George F. Steele, secre
day. The number of new cases re- I tary and Timothy T. Ansherry, coun
f orted in the great city and 159 and 1 BPl for ,h' -News Print Manufacturers
it was said that of the ? i-A 'Association
available in public and nrivate hosoi'. Mr. Glass said his association view-
he usualiv dealth with
Mr. Zerhv charged favoritism in the
sale of paner and declared present
prices varied widely, according to the
whim of Vr.e manufacturer, the dis
crepancy running freim two to six
cents a pound. He added that while
some publishers can hardly buy paper
for cash even at exorbitant rates,
others have made two and three year
contracts at favored terms. He
thought it apparent that manufact
urers had united to force publishers
to deal only with the mill they were
accustomed to patronize, and that
further increase bevond five per cent
would force many of the smaller
papers under 20,000 circulation into
bankruptcy.
In defense of the manufacturers.
Mr. Dodge explained that $1,000,000 on capital.
serve had been depleted from 27,000
tons to 17,000 in order to afford re
lief, and that all new orders includ
ing contracts for nearly 100,000 tons
from abroad had been refused. The
great difficulty, he said, was that a
very sudden and unexpected demand,
increasing the country's paper con
sumption over 20 per cent in the year
had entirely nverun the total avail
able fupply. Moreover, nearly every
item of exwnse in manufacture had
been increased, and the importation
of timber bought in Canada for manu
facture here had been forbidden by
Canadian authorities shortly after tho
American duty on Canadian paper
was removed. No new mills had been
built in the past year, he said, as it
was impossible to make a fair return
Cars Of Explosives Tvm Be
Taboo In Jersey City
take fully five days to count
votes from all territories.
When the complete vote has been
counted, probably on Saturday or
Monday, Mr. Shea said, there will be
a meetinir bere :if the national con
ference committee of railways and ! tals onlv 150 remained onneenoi.i ed the situation with extreme alarm
the result will be submitted by the tonight. The total number of cases nml ,la(1 recommended retrenchment
brotherhood officials. Negotiations of the disease since the epidemic be- i ln consumption by smaller editions,
then will be conducted !n the hope t pan hns been more than four thnn. ' abolishing returns, and circulation
ithat a satisfactory settlement may he
reached. A strike would be called
onlv If the negotiations failed.
"The railway employes are not ask
ing An Increase in pay, but only a
shorter work day for the same wages
for which thev now are giving ten
Timothy Shea, assistant president hours' service," said Mr. Shea.
sand. inactivity. Increases cf twenty-five
While the heallh authorities assert1'0 thirty-five per cent on contracts
they have the situation well in hand nml sometimes a hundred per cent on
they admit that unless cooler weather "p'S-enV orders, he declared, had
sets in, the number of new rases destroyed the profits of most news
probablv will be increased by several lalc"s. nnd already had driven some
thousand before the o.i.lemie atv. to the wall. One western paper, he
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Aug.. 1. Drastic ac
tion was taken by the city commis
sions of Jersey City to make impos
sible a recurrence of such a disaster
as the fire and explosions on Black
Tom island early Sunday morning.
By a vote of 4 to 1 the commission
ers adopted a resolution ordering the
removal and exclusion from the city
of reight cars laden with high ex
plosives. This step was taken after
It had been found that federal anei
state authorities were powerless to
act under existing laws.
The railroads were given 48 hours
notice to obey the requirements of
the resolution. Tf they fail to com
ply within that time Director of Pub
lie Safety Frank Hague, who is chief
of the police department, is directed
to "use all the means within his low
er and at his command" to enforce
passes.
osaid, reported an increased paper cost the order. Hague announced that if
necessary he will arrest every rail
road official or employe who fails to
comply with the terms of the resolu
tion.
The order followed the report ot
detee-tives which stated that mora
than 50 freight cars laden with higu'
explosives remained within the city
limits after Sunday s disaster, while
a total of 2.827 such cars had been
transported through the city for ship
ment abroad during June and July.
County Prosecutor Hudspeth said
his investigation was still in progress
and that warrants for the arrest of
resonsihle officials of the railroads
involved in the explosion might be is
sued with the next few hours.
The death list was increased to five
tonight when Patrolman Jams Do
herty, of Jersey City, succumbed to
internal injuries caused by being
buried under tons of debris.
X
