THE BARRE DAILY
TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 118.
JlAHHK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 2, 1010.
PRICK.. ONE CENT.
DEUTSCHLAND
TO
REACH THE SEA
SPEEDING
German Submersible, Tiich
Left Her Pier Late Yester
day, Was Sighted This
Morning Headed 1 South
and Making: for the Lower
Chesapeake Bay
ALLIES' WARSHIPS
ARE WAITING FOR HER
HIGH EXPLOSIVES
ORDERED TAKEN
OUT OF CITY LIMITS
Two Aeroplanes Which Are
Hovering Over the Scene
Are Supposed to Have
Come from U. S. Cruiser
with Purpose to Observe
Neutrality of 3-Mile Limit
Newport News, Va., Aug. 2. The
Deutschland was sighted off Tangier
sound this morning. fhe was still head
ing toward the lower bay at a high rate
uf speed.
Two aeroplanes were seen flying over
the lower Chesapeake bay at Hampton
Koads at daybreak. It is believed that
they came from the armored cruiser
North Carolina on a neutrality patrol
olf the Virginia capes.
Passengers on an incoming liner say that
when the ship approached the capes only
one foreign warship was sighted. They
saw an object like a buoy which they
thought supported nets.
No word has been heard from the
Bremen. Word from Baltimore says that
preparations are going on at the pier
just vacated by the Deutschland to re
ceive another submarine. Agents of the
boats state the company have cargoes
stored in every large port on the At
lantic seaboard.
Baltimore, Aug. 2. On the second an
niversary of Germany's declaration of
war against Russia, the German subma
rine merchantman Deutschland, set out
from Baltimore on a return voyage to
Germany with a declaration of confi
dence from her commander, Captain Paul
Koenig, that he would take her home
in spite of the heavy odds she would
face when the three mile limit in the At
lantic is reached.
The submersible was towed out of the
slip where she was berthed 23 days ago
at 5:40 o'clock yesterday afternoon. Aft
er getting into midettreum the towline
of the tug Thomas Tiiumth was cast
off and the Deutschland proceeded down
the Patapasco river under her own pow
er. Captain Koenig and his army of 27
men put to sea with the knowledge that
a man hurried to a telephone with a
message to agents for the entente allies
that the Deutschland had started, but
the little captain went out of Baltimore
harbor smiling and waving his cap. His
last words in the harbor were of praise
for America and for his treatment here
by Baltimore customs authorities.
Captain Koenig knew that eight war
Bliips of the entente allies were waiting
for him at the edge of the three-mile
limit, spread out in a radius of live
miles. "We shall have to pass unseen
within that radius in order to escape, he
said. "We shall have to make that pas
sage under conditions not' entirely ad
vantageous to us. Were the water at
that point 150 deep, it would be easier.
We could submerge deeply enough to
pass underneath the warships.. But the
water there is not 150 feet deep. We
shall, therefore, have to pass between the
warships."
There were not more than a hundred
persons in the vicinity of the pier when
the Deutschland came out from behind
the screen of barges, and beside two
newspaper dispatch boats there were
only four launches in the stream. But
the spectators cheered and waved hand
kerchiefs in unison with the cheering and
waving from the sailors on board the in
terned North German Lloyd steamer
Neekar. The sun was setting in a clear
western sky and its rays were reflected
from the still waters as the little craft
started on its way. On the conning tow
er of the submersible, at the feet of her
commander, there was a huge basket of
roses and white flowers, the last gift of
a Baltimore admirer.
The final movements in connection
with the
began a fe
that hour unusual activity was noticed
aboard the NVokar. A little later the
coast guard cutter Wissahickon was oh
serv
Connvs mers of Jersey City Toy Ac
tion Following the Great Sxplosawj
on Black Tom Pier Fifth Death
from the Explosion.
New York, Aug. 2. Drastic: .trtion was
taken bv the citv commissioner of Jer
sey City lute yesterday to m.iUt. impos
sible a recurrence of such disaster an
the fire and explosion on Blue Tom
isliti.d early ,s,.nli'y morning. ly a
vote of 4 to 1 tiie eommissioi ers adopt
ed a resolution ordering L'l i re.i.ov.tl
and fx.hihion from the city of frth''-t
cars 'uden with high explo.. vet. This
'ep fit taken after it had been found
federal and state authorities wcr-3 pow
erless to act under existing laws.
The railroads were given 4S hours' no
tice to obey the requirements of the res
olution. If thev fail to comply within
that time Director of Public Safety
A POWERFUL
WORK TAKEN
French Meet with Success
Just North of River
Somme
WILSON MAINTAINS
HE FAVORS STATE
ACTION ON SUFFRAGE
President's Secretary Issued Statement
to That Effect ai Result of An
nouncement by Hcghes That He
Favored Federal Amendment.
REMOVE OBSTRUCTION
ON PERONNE ROAD
Battle Is Violently Renewed
North of Verdun, French
Losing Slightly
Paris, Aug. 2. North of the river
Somme the French took a
where 33 aerial engagements took place
Frank Hague, who is chief of the police yesterday, the French claim notable suc-
Washington, Aug. 2. President Wilson
ha not changed his position that the
woman null rae question should be dealt
with by states, it Is announced at the
White House. Dm statement was
brought forth by the announcement yes
terday of Charles K. Hughes that he fa
vored a federal suffrage amendment.
A delegation of sulfragists aw the
president yesterday and afterwards in
dicated that they believed he would make
a new statement on the question be'iire
the convention of the National Amer
ican Woman Suffrage association in Sep
tember. At thut time the policy to bo
pursued in the presidential campaign
will be determined by the suffrage oi
ganization. To-day Secretary Tumulty announced
that I'resident Wilson's position on the
subject was unchanged. This question,
am . . l ; .. ...1 ...i'iru I i;n,A. ,i . , . nr.-.w.i
. . . inn vii,iMii , iLiui-n ivi 01411, Mtov
I ' delegates, is that while he favors votes
fortified German work between the Hemjfor women he is opposed to federal ac
wood and Monaeii farm, the war oflice tion.
announces.
On the right bank of the Meuc, north
of the fortress of Verdun, there was a
violent series of engagements. The Ger
mans, using asphyxiating gas, gained a
little ground.
In air fighting along the Somme front.
BANDITS
CROSSED
RIVER
and Fort Hancock, Ready
for Making Attack on the
Most Vulnerable Point in
That Vicinity
department, is directed "to ue all the
means in his power and at his command"
to einorce the order, lli'tfuo announced,
that if necessary he will ar.T..t eveiv
railroad official or employe who rails to
comply with the terms of tic resolu
tion. Another factor va' (hi report, of de
tectives and ChiefUnspct'r of Combusti
bles .lames M. Connolly The report
staled thiil. more tl'in lit'tv freight cars
high explosives remaine
city !;min after Sunday's
laden wit
within 'm
d s.i ii 1 .
(Vilify ProsccutM Hud.-peili said his
implication was still in progress a I
tt M-arrants for ti? arrest of responsi
L'e officials of the -i I'oads involved in
th e.vpiosion might b" issued within the
next few days.
" It? death list .v i t im ics-ed to .five
last night when Patrohr.vi .la iocs IVhc
ty of the Jersey vily department sue
cum'.'fd to internal injuries
cesses. Fifteen German machines were
driven out of action, seriously damaged
by French airmen. One of these air
crafts was eeen to fall in flames.
ADMITS FRENCH ADVANCE.
Berlin Says They Penetrated ."to Our
Demolished Trenches."
Berlin, Aug. 2. In the Somme region
the French penetrated "to our demolished
trenches, says the official statement.
CASEMENT BETRAYS
NO EMOTION AS
END NEARS
Remains Unconcerned Although His Ex
ecution Is Scheduled to Take Place
Thursday Morning.
London, Aug. 2. Roper Casement's
solicitor had not r.oived word ithis claims another defeat for the Russians
morning of any change in plans for the near Porsk, while lenna says that west
execution by hanging Thursday morning and northwest of l.utsk the Russian at
of his client in the Pentonville prison, tacks have ceased, "obviously owing to
VIOLENT BATTLES IN EAST.
Along a Front Estimated to Be Nearly
200 Miles.
London, Aug. 2. Violent battles are
still fought by the Russians and the
Austro-Huiigarian ami German forces
virtually on the entire front from the
Pripet river marshes in Russia south
ward to the region of Buczaez in Galicift
a distance of about 200 miles.
The Russians who have reached the
western bank of the Stokhod river near
Stolysva and Smolary have been forced !and that he and his command are high
to sustain a heavy counter attack by hv commended, was approved bv Secre
uerman imamry, wnicn reirograd says tary Baker.
was repuisea wnn neavy casualties. Ber
lin asserts that in this fighting the Rus
sians are exhausting themselves in futile
attacks and that they have been thrown
back three times near Smolary. North
east of the Kovel-Rovno railway Berlin
SL0CUM EXONERATED.
Of Blame in Connection with Bandits'
Raid on Columbus, N M.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 2. Colonel II,
J. Sloeuin of the 13th cavalry has been
exonerated by the secretary of war of
Maine in connection with rrancisco
Villa's raid on Columbus, N. M., last
March. Colonel Slocum was in eemmand
of the American troops at Columbus, and
there has been a great deal of unofficial
criticism of the apparent circumstance
that his forces were surprised by the
Villistas. This criticism suggested neg
lect of duty on the part of Colonel Slo
cum. All over the country stories have
been told of this or that alleged incident,
on the night of Villa's raid, all tending
to show that the American troopers were
not on guard and that no precautions
had been taken to prevent a surprise at
tack. It was made known at the war depart
ment that the Columbus incident had
been investigated by a special inspec
tor on the stalT of Brig.-Gen. Fershing.
The department made public the indorse- j
ments on the inspector's report bv Oen.
Fershing. Maj.-Gen. Funston, command
ing the troops on the border, and
Maj.-Gen. Scott, chief of the general
staff. A recommendation by the chief
of staff that Colonel Slocum be advised
that no signs rested upon his conduct,
TWO CAVALRY TROOPS
ARE SEEKING THEM
Casement remains unconcerned. He be
trays no emotion as the hour of execu
tion approaches. f
Gavin Duffy, Roger Casement's solici
tor, said he had reason to believe there
would be no reprieve in the case of the
former knight.
MISSING GIRL FOUND.
Fourteen-Year-Old Helen Davis of East
Andover, N. H., Ran Away.
Franklin, N. H., Aug. 2. Helen Davis,
a 14-year-old girl tor whom Last An
dover police searched all day, was found
here last night and was returned to East
Andover. She was trying to hire a horse
to go to Concord and see her iter and
was held at the livery stable until Frank
lin police arrived.
The girl said she stayed in the woods
all night and had lived on blueberries.
She said she ran away from Mrs. Sarah
Yeaton's home, where she was employed,
to find her father, Charles Davis, who,
she said, was now in Waterville.
TO REDUCE THE PAGES.
New York Publishers Took Action to
Eliminate the Cost.
New York, Aug. 2. Publishers of dwly
papers, at a meeting yesterday after
noon, took action which will result in the
ditreasing in the number if pages ii
ttwir morning, evening ami u:i.:iy is
sues of 121 pages a week. The reluct inn
of 'o many pages is a step to relieve the
nw print paper siti.atio,: which is re
garded by the publishers as v-vy serious.
Action as also i..e;i to elin ite re
t;int o' unsold copies.
the heavy losses sustained."
In Galicia, according to Petrograd, the
Russians have crossed the Koropvtz river
near Tchckuvdudenka and organised
themselves in new positions, taking more
than 1,000 Auslro-Germans prisoners dur
ing the operations. Southwest of Bur
kanov and west of Buczaez there has
been lively fighting, but with no changes
in positions reported.
In the Caucasus the Russians have ad
vanced farther from Erzingan toward
Sivas and also made, progress in the di
rection of Mozul. Tha Turks, according
to Constantinople, have recaptured An-
tuck, a dominating position near Mush,
and repulsed with heavy casualties Run- j
sian attacks near Baschkeny. On the j vorablv known in Barre. The bride was
Egyptian front, Constantinople says, the Igradtmted from Spaulding high school in
Turks are gaining ground westward step j 1900 arid fllr peveral years past has been
by step. engaged as a stenographer -!n the law
In the Austro-ltalian theatre Austri- office of John W. Gordon. Mr. Allen at
an attacks on the Italians on Monte tended Goddard seminary and is em-
Cimone, on the Setti Communi plateau ployed as an auto salesman. The eonnle
.j l ...4 ' 1 i' '. ... .
biiu in me nMttnu ktoii, nc i trjmiot-u, i received many substantial weading gilts
Becoming 10 noiur, una a Biignt auvauce
was made by the Italians in the Travig-
nolo valley.
MORE PROGRESS BY BRITISH
ALLEN CHURCHILL.
. . . " - -
Well Known Barre Young People Were
Married To-day.
At their home, B0 Orange street, this
forenoon at 0:30 o'clock. Miss Zvlpha C.
Churchill, daughter of Richard Churchill
of Berlin, and Russell B. Allen, son of
Mr. and Mrs. Frank M. Allen of east hill,
were married by Rev. Bert J. Lehigh
pastor of the First Baptist church, the
double ring service being used. Apart
from the immediate relatives and a few
intimate friends of the bride and groom
the bridal partv was small. The bride
was attended by her sister, Miss Mil
dred Churchill? and Glenn Merrill of Bos
ton acted as groomsman. The bride wore
a gown of white net or white silk and
carried a bouquet of sweet peas. Her
bridesmaid wore old rose marquisette.
After the ceremony bride and groom left
on a bridal tour. They will be at home,
60 Orange street, after Aug. 15.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Allen are very fa
IURREVS SOLDIERS
ARE NOT CALLED ON
TO PAY POLL TAX
Board of Civil Authority Voted Last
Night to Exempt All Who Are Now
Serving Their Country Sev
eral Taxation Appeals
Dismissed.
Barre militiamen icrving the colors
along the Mexican border and all other
residents of this city who are at present
in the service of the United States army
or navy are having their poll taxes
abated, as the result of action taken at
T Qfrrn ViimKnuc f Tc the meeting of the board of civil author
aiuupa , th) rmItrooM t city hall last
Ai-rt Coi1 Tt rny.An1w1 eveninif. With Aug. 10 coming on space
iV t vu.ivvuau wjth lhp PM,irKtion cf thp tim(, wnl.
Between Finlov TVvns ,a,t''" nia' i"1''' witho,lt "I'ppi"? thP
' i-n pctnr an evtra Iwinna. th hova 111
khaki will find themselves dug out of the
ta trenches, while 'most every Imdy else
is biiKy getting the wherewithal to pay
for the privilege of living in this well
known progressive community. The
question of exempting the soldiers and
sailors came to the surface when mem
bers of the board were occupied in grant
ing or dismissing appeals for other rea
sons, and the motion to abate the poll
assessments was carried without a dis
senting vote.
It was the second meeting of the
board within a week, and a number of
appellants were on the scene when Chair
man F. G. Howland called the meeting
to order. Much time was taken up in
going through the pKC, lftos, and lf0!)
tax books of the collector, and before
the board adjourned to meet airain on
the evening of Tuesday, Aug. 22, all of
the poll taxes due in those three years
were abated. Twelve members of the
board were present. H. G. Woodruff,
whose appeal from the decision of the
assessors in taxing mining and railroad
stocks in 1015 was the subject of an in
vestigation after the meeting last week,
was granted a rebate of $41.40, following
a report by the investigators. Alderman
A. E. Bruce wan appointed a committee
of one to see that the abatements au
thorized are entered on the records.
Cases considered last evening were dis
posed of in the manner indicated in the
following paragraphs:
Mary h. Morse, appeal for rebate on
bank stock, dismissed.
Eugene Jjtmbertini, appeal for rebate
on realty tax, dismissed.
Giovanni Puzzi. appeal for rebate on
realty tax, dismissed.
Louis K. Averill, appeal for rebate on
Washington street property tax; report
by special committee and assessors; ap
peal dismissed.
Joseph Rabadeau, developed that tax
had been paid before his demise and
appeal dismissed.
Poll taxes abated: Joseph Serebitck,
residence in Bethel; James Cordiner, ill
ness; Andrew Fa"crstrom, illness; Al
fredo Villanova, not here until after May
1 ; Joseph oickleman, illness; Louis Pe
mti, under 21; Archie Bonani, deceased;
George W. Lyons, over "0; Walter Knut
son, duplicate; Leander Bertrand, illness;
Murdoch Patterson, illness; Ralph W.
Kent, under 21 ; George Stevenson, tax
able in Hardwiek; George Davidson, ill
ness; Charles Stacy, illness; Samuel Tite,
illness.
A Battalion of 23d Infantry
Has Been Rushed from El
Paso to Fort Hancock to
Act as Supporting Column
While Gulches and Can
yons Are Being Searched
by the Cavalry
EI Paso, Tex., Aug. 2. Two troops of
the eighth cavalry are scouring the
gulches and canyons between Finley,
Tex., and Fort Hancock in search of ban
dits who are said to have crossed the
Rio Grande in large numbers. The cav
alry is supported by a battalion of the
2.1d infantry, which was rushed from El
Paso to Fort Hancock.
ONLY "SISSIES" KICK.
FOURTH CITY -MOTOR
HALTED
Some of the Aldermen Want
ed First to Look into the
Plan More Closely
IT WAS PROPOSE
FOR WATT DEPT.
Aldermen N;c Patrolman
Gamble as Deputy
Police Chief
Says Funston in Threatening to Eject
Objectionable Newspaper Men.
San Antonio, Tex., Aug. 2. General
Funston last night sent to the war de
partment a telegram, announcing "his
intention to rid the various National
Guard camps of newspaper correspond
ents who send out false accounts of
conditions in the camps. He referred to
such correspondents as "pests" and said
he had endured them as long as he pro
osed to.
"The great mass of the guardsmen are
standing the hardships of camp life well,"
said General Funston, "and have no cause
for complaint. It is only mollycoddles
and sissies who kick. These are the ones
who tell tales to special correspondents."
CHAUTAUQUA OPENS.
MAY IDENTIFY BODY.
As That of Charles Rising It Was
Found at Windsor.
Manchester, X. H., Aug. 2. The Man
chester police notified the authorities of
Advanced East of Pozieres, Says London
Report.
London, Aug. 2. Further progress has
been made bv British troops east of Po
zieres, it is officially announced.
PROMINENT MERCHANT DEAD.
MEDIATORS AT WORK.
Hoping to End Strike Among New York
Garment Workers.
Xew Yorl, Aug. 2. The three media
tors appointed by the department of la
bor will confer here to-day with the
garment manufacturers and union lead
ers in an attempt to end the strike of
4.1.000 makers of women's clothes. One
hundred thousand orders for women's
clothes are waiting to be filled when the
shops reopen.
PREPARE FOR TROUBLE.
In Case of General Strike of Street Cat
Men in New York.
New York, Aug. 2. State and city
authorities are preparing. to deal with a
Eben D. Jordan, Senior Member of Jor
dan Marsh Company.
Manchester, Mass., Aug. 2. Eben D.
Jordan, senior member of the firm of
Jordan Marsh company, died last night
at his summer home here as the result
of a paralytic stroke suffered 10 days
ago.
Mr. Jordan was widely known n n
patron of the fine arts. He was nresi- :great strike of street railway employes.
dent of the' Boston Opera company, and which, if begun, is expected to tie up the
he owned the oner hnuaa whirii waaiwhole street railway service.
Windsor, Vt., that they believed they : built, esneeiallv for the Ro.f.m Onr. The threatened tie-up of every car
Ul l i,l . i. i i ' r . J . . . . 1 i.. . " ; . .
departure of the Deutschland1 "".- ....... ..w....B imp wiy j company and which served as its home 'ne in greater .e ioik is io oe oniy
w minutes before 4 o'clock. At' m the Connpctl,"t nver at j until the abandonment of the enterprise the first step in a country-wide strike
Miiiusi.r .""nj. two V(.ars ago. He was also a director ot street carmen in oroer 10 win me un-
Dennis F. Brassell recalls having piven (of the Metropolitan Opera company ofjion's demand for the right to organize
a man who answers the description ofXew York, an honorary director of the : everywhere, it was stated to-day by
unsei tor tne union
Barre's Turn in the Big Entertainment
Feature Arrives.
Barre's turn on the Community Chau
tauqua circuit came to-day, and this
afternoon everything was in readiness at
Goddard campus for tiie aeries of lectures
and entertainments. Yesterday the
greensward on the hill prc.-.eit.d an ani
mated scene, with mnnv workmen en
gaged in rearing the big top. This fore
noon the local committee, aided by thau
tauqua boosters from abroad, arranged
the seating accommodations and made
ready for the opening this afternoon.
The campus seems admirably adapted to
fhe afternoon and evening gatherings,
and the prospects for a large patronage
were considered fairly bright.
Miss Lewis of Columbia university, the
playground superintendent, will organize
her work with the children immediately
after the afternoon entertainment. The
playground is open to all the children of
the community of all ages free. On these
hot days, mothers are encouraged to send
their children at ft o'clock in the morning
for the playground work, and at 4
o'clock in the afternoon for the story
hour. The scope of Miss Lewis' work is
to embrace all manner of playground ac
tivities. Athletics of every degree, vol
ley ball, baseball, group games, etc..
are to be represented.
RICOCHETTING ROCK
INJURED THREE
IN QUARRY PIT
One of Men, Abil Amor, Sustained Frac
ture of the Skull Steam Pipe Was
Smashed and Quarry Filled
With Steam.
Three quarry workers were more or
less seriously injured this morning when
a rock, loosened from the side of the low
er quarry of E. L. Smith & Co., in Gran
iteville, dropped into the pit where they
were working, smashing itself and other
rocks and sending the fragments show
ering over the men. Abil Amor, a Span
iard, sustained a fracture of the skull;
William Murray was injured on one hip,
and Thomas Geake was badly cut about
the head and body. Others in the pit.
were serntrheii
The accident happened at 8:30 o'clock tinn fo tl,e ,r"'p confirmed by tho
and the cause has tiot been accurately ! council sometime ago, but matters relat
determmed as yet. The rock was locat-linP to n adjustment "f the salary aues
ed high up on the side of the quarry Hion vr(rp postponed until last night,
and fell with great momentum as it j pn he aT? committee reported it
neared the bottom. As it ricochetted I recommendation that his yearly stipend
from projection to projection it came in b increased from $000 to $078. an in
contact with the steam pipe, smashing ; ''" of !-so tlpr wpp,- Tbp deputy
that and thus enveloping the quarry bp charue of the force dur-
with steam, which added to the confusion ,n thp "bsenre "1p rmpI an(1
immediately succeeding the, accident. ! clothed with special authority at night.
There was' little or nn ehanen fnr thn , Officer Gamble is the oldest member of
Barre narrowly misled receiving an
other prize package in the haX of
fourth motor truck last evening when th
city council, reconvening after the board
of civil authority session, came to grips
on the proposal to purchase a $1,300
tractor for the water department. Life
is getting to be just one little disagree
ment after another with the city fathers
and there were harsh words in the air
when a, perfectly well-primed plan ti
aid the city's vehicular equipment failed
to go through. Alderman Shurtleff was
absent at the fag end session, but there
were enough members present to round
out a busy evening. Members of the wa
ter committee sprung the truck proposi
tion, although it was suggested that the
motor might be used advantageously in
the street and health departments.
Apparently the idea had a mushroom,
growth, for at least two of the aldermen
disclaimed any knowledge of the truck
plan until it was aired after 10 o'clock.
It developed that three other members
had a pretty well defined notion that a,
G. M. C. truck should be purchased at
$1,300 in order to bring needed relief to
the water department. The little Ford
jitney that has rambled over the water
circuit for some few years came in for
several rather sharp accusations of in
efficiency and inadequacy, and among
those who appeared ready to vote for th
G. M. C. auxiliary there was a feeling
that the proposed addition would come
in pretty handy in the extensions now
planned as well as a month's work that
Superintendent Lee has in prospect at
Oranee reservoir. Aldermen Reynolds,
and Rossi thought it would be too much
like going off at half-cock to sew up the
deal last night and it was mainly through
their temporizing that the $1,300 expen
diture was deferred.
Alderman Bruce was of the opinion
that a water department truck would be
serviceable in the municipal garbage col
lection tflken over bv the city to-day.
Alderman Glysson believed the machine.
could be used in the .street department
at times and Alderman Healy thought
that conditions in the water department
just now justified its purchase. All three
were for doing business right on the
pround floor as contrasted with the te
dious procedure followed in the purchaso
of the street truck Inst Rpring. Alder
men Reynolds and Rossi were all for
delvintr deeper into the question, and a.
motion made by the former and seconded
by the latter to have the water commit
tee brills' in recommendations was lost.
Everybody was ready to call it a day
when Alderman Healy moved to adiourn
near 11 o'clock and nobody contested the
motion.
A Deputy Chief on Police Force.
When Officer Harry Gamble of the po
lice force fares forth on his beat to-mchfc
it will be as a deputy chief, the title and
duties incident to an office created last
spring having been conferred upon him
in the eveninjr. Officer Gamble s nomina-
tbe police department and his promotion
was unanimously favored bv the coun
cil. The stains of fhe Community Chau
tauqua, which opened in Barre to-day.
served making its way into the inner I !je unknown h address, and recalls that Royal opera, -London, and president of i Louis Frediger, co
tasin. Then the harbor police bt Lan-j " " Ca X' England Conservatory of Mu-1 organizers.
isn came up to the pier where the sub- fh,S C:, who haa oth;r' Henrv Rh- Uic.
nersible was berthed. " 11 a ' ' R'S'ng A f iU (,pPrmpnt store bus- GTS pK
r .....left here ten days aeo. h mu nf tha u.J!nn I
1
nan came up to tne p
mersible was berthed.
At 5:30 o'clock the Lannan pulled out
of the slip, the Wissahickon pulled away
and finally the Timmins backed further
in to attach her line. At 5:40 the Tim
mins f-lowly moved out of the slip and
when it was seen that her tow line was
attached to a seajrrcen hulk a cheer went
up from the watchers.
The manifest of the Dmtchland's re-
Denmark Government Will Take Up the
Matter Soon.
London, Aug. 2 Messages from Copen
hagen say the Dutch authorities have
' i" ' .- Fi"":m Danish West Indies to the United States
wk in " lV 'VP' .1""""7 The new.paper Pobtiken aava the Ki?s-
1 1 11 . 1 J J II ' ... ......
I mesa, he was one of the leading mer-
GETS PROMOTION.
SALE NOT CONFIRMED.
.chants of New England and also a direc- ,'Dr. A Skeels u Now Captain in Brit-
tor of the Boston Dry Goods company
and of the Globe Newspaper company,
publishers of the tioston Globe. He be
workmen to run for safety
As soon as possible the uninjured went
to the aid of their fellows and the latter
were subsequently taken to their homes.
Dr. G. L. T. Haves stated this nnon that.
he could not determine eonrliisivelv nt . I wn determined when the council decided
that time the full extent of the man's : t'1" !t should not be listed as a show
injurie. Amor, he said, had sustained a !"n1 therefore should not be subject to a,
fru.-tiirs of the tnll unJ a Heon nut nn 1 license. On a motion made by Alder-
On one of the days later in the week, ,,,!
.vhir-h rdnniri. o.-nri atitima 'man Pevnolds the clerk was instructed
a long hike and a picnic will be arranged, j Murray's ehief hurt eemed to be about t"1 spm' ,'1P Board of Trade a hill for $.V
Miss Lewis will acquaint the children of onp j,j'p Geike had a bad cut on the Its share in the clean-up enmnaien of
wonders of the Vermont hills which, to:),flj ;'!, h .nv.l tit,-W .m tai-'. .' 1015. it bavin? been stated that tho
their surprise, they may not already !cn. bis right wrist was cut and several ! Board of Trade is ready to carry out any
know. Misa Lewis comes fresh from j ,stit(.bes were taken there and his left promise made by a former oficer.
Columbia university, is handsomely qual-!ankl, WRS hurt, although the doctor! A letter from Sheriff F. U. Tracy
ined to bring to Harre the most modern thought no bones were broken. j served notice on the charity department
and well-developed ideas of playground
work, and her stay here should be of
especial advantage to the community.
Mothers, as well as children, are encour
aged to attend the playgrounds.
This afternoon the first session for the
adults began at 2:30. This took the
CLAIMS HE WAE CROWDED.
thst a man named L. Caruti i an inmate
of the county jail as the result of a writ
served nn him and signed bv the countr
W. A. Wright Went Over Bank Between : cleric. The letter stated further that the
St. Johnsbury and Danville. I:ity W M' "7" -IT
J , for the prisoners board. The city at-
St. Johnfhurv. Auc. 2. In turnini? out tornev was instructed to look info thti
form of a concert given by the American for an auto which he claimed failed to 1 rii-eiimtnce surrounilins Carnti's de-
quartet, a company of four talented pive him half the mad room. W. A. ' fention and report to the council. Camti
young gentlemen from the West. Mr. j Wrijrht drove one of his new Chalmers n-ss recently made the defendant in n.
(iilrxfrt added zest to the fternoon j stock srs over a bank on the road to sinnnil uit brought bv E. Albano for th
ish Medical Corps.
St. Albans, Aug. 2.-Ma K. A. Skeels' "t h his character impersonations from .Danville Tuesday. The accident occurred all.t-ed linstinn of hi wife's affections.
carries several hundred thousand dollars!
in gold.
A SERUM CURE.
Has Been Discovered by French Doctors
for Eruptive Typhoid.
Paris. Aug. 2. A serum cure for erup
tive typhus diseases which male uih
secret session Friday
when the government will answer ques
tions on the subject.
WHOLE VILLAGE BURNING.
And Neighboring Qbec Cities are Send
ing Aid.
i Monroe Robinson of New York, survive.
He was 53 years of age.
GAVE HIMSELF SCALP WOUND.
Sam Sdineller of Burlington Shot Him
self Will Recover.
Burlington. Aug. 2. Sam SchnelW
made an unsuccessful attempt at sui
longed to many clubs. In addition to his jof Hoyt s-treet has received a letter from Kiley and Kiplinc and Clayton Conrad 'near the underpass on the Danville road, j The request of the Co-operative corn
residence here and his home in Boston, 'her son, Dr. A. A. Skeels. formerly of .entertained with his cartoons and draw-j Mr. Wright was goinir toward Danville . r,nv for a transfer of its bakery ped
he owned a larpe estate in Scotland. this citv. saying that he has been-' pro- ings. ,nd met sn auto owned hy K. C. Harvey ,!!cr's license to B. Fumapalli was grant -
His wife, who was Miss May Shep-jmoted from'the rank of lieutenant to' This evening Lee Francis Lybarger of 'and driven by Harold Harvey of Ihix-'ed. The report of the boiler inspector
pard of Philadelphia, a son. Robert of - that of captain in the royal army medi- J Philadelphia will address the audience on 'bury, who were together in the car at on hnilrrs in the basement at city halt
Konton, and a daughter, Mrs. Douglas ,eal corps. Dr. Skeels is stationed I at S- the question of '"Pork Barrel Legjs. ; the time with two other pirt i.. , jn the str.ncniher were received
Umiki with the expeditionary forces ofitM,n- ," experience as a member of I Mr. v rifht claimed that the party, and accented. Wiring wmits wer
the British army there. His time of! the Philadelphia bar as a student and 'kept to the middle of the road, w h i.-'h r n i ed the following pplicnt: X. .T.
service would have expired about the j adviser at the nations rapitol equip him j was narrow t that point, forcing him ' Robert, lights: Blanchsrd Block com
middle of this month, but be has signed with information which is especially per-.over the bank at the roadsi.ie. He im-Jnnv. motr; Grearon A Lane, lights;
to stay in the British service for another j tinPnt to the present preparedness and , mediately sent word t. St. Johnsbury , Mntpclier Bsrre I.irrit Power com -year.
" appropriation situation in Congress. Mr.lto have a warrant made out for thr p- 'p.mv. meters; citv of Barre. light; Can-
l ybarger will be preceded by the Anieri- : prehension of the partv. ! t..n Brothers. I'iHs; Mr. and Mm. John
can quartet, who will render another at-1 The Harvey party detained by Clcrr. lights; Wilson C.mil. to install
tractive concert. t th nrtK-er and an illjj.Kmni .... , ........ - .;!. rt.,;idinr w.rn,;a - -
Fairfax. Aug. 2. Bev. J. M. Maxwell, J The entertainment to-morrow at 2:3'i! their machine. ',-eived bv tV following applicants- Vn
Vermont Minister to Go to Ireland.
"" ""' i'1- .in mi ine cine mis mormnir. lntlictincr a cIn ' M.t,lr ,.f tl. Hantist chiiiv-l, m-hn n m hrincs Cncflre- Dll.r. k tk- -l.-l. - t ir , .
r. r,ii... st. i.n, ,u l, i.v:.i;.... . " : ... " : - ; r. . . - - .......-,. .-. -"r - or n
........ . ...-., ,r , m.M.n.i nn a -camre revolver. lie preached Ins farewell sermon Mere Sun-1 Pratca irisn lenor. and v in 1 ahor W ,.t . i tat. Iv received from ',. (,ri...r t-s l.,in,tr- m .mn- r : rv.v
iZlli t v T t kT t I" 7n,'n?" V"10 have i will recover. Dome-tic trouble was given I day. will go on to b.s home in Ire- more, an entertainer and impersonator of damaged t an extent etinteJ at
hman, ta
- - - - - i - - - - - as i nr cause.
l.'nd.
great merit.
about iy.
Cotitin'iel pb fourth page.)
