O n C
Things are moving so fast now
adays that people who say it can't
fee done are being interrupted by
some one doing it.
"Luck and laziness" don't ' go tcP
: gether. Opportunity ; won't hunt
you up." James J. Hill.
1IYI)E PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY,-AUGUST 2, 1 1916.
$1.25 A YEAR
mm ft mm
VOL. NO. 44
( This Paper "Hs g
( Travels Over 8
( Every Street In 8
( Town, and Road g
( In the Country. 8
( Let It Carry ,J)
( Your Message g
T
he Latest Graafian H
IN JEWELRY A
NOVELTIES U
Real Butterflies made up into
PENDANTS
SCARF PINS
CUFF LINKS
BROOCHES
Etc. Etc. Etc.
In our Optical Department ask
about Near and Far Lenses
made in one piece.
A. R. CAMPBELL
Optometrist and Jeweler
Morrisville, - Vermont
HOWE & STOWE
Heal Estate of all Kinds bought, sold
and exchanged. Telepuoue connec
tion. Root's Block, Newport, Vt.
NOTICE1.
I am ill and in the hospital at Bur
lington. I ask my customers and friends
to wait for me, as I intend to be baok
on the job soon. I have no representa-
fives on the road and no partners.
OSOAR.KAHN,
' Morrisville'S Original Junk Man. -
Our OAK-MM SU
We are offering Bargains that are worth looking into.
The price on all Women's Suits and Coats, Dresses
and Skirts, Children's Coats and Dresses, have Seen
reduced to the lowest notch. J- & &
GREAT REDUCTIONS
On all Men's and Young Men's Suits, Top Coats
and Rain Coats, Summer Trousers and Straw Hats
also, Boys' Light Wool and Washable Suits.
B I G
SILK AND CREPE KIMONOS
MEN'S, WOMEN'S and CHILDREN'S
WOMEN'S AND MISSES'
SILK SWEATERS
IN MANY COLORS
Everything in the line of Summer ' Underwear, Hosiery and
Furnishings of every description, and Shoes for Men, Wdmcn
and Children, all at our BARGAIN PRICES. !
A. J.
"The Store That Saves You Money."
JOHNSON,
BUSINESS NOTICES.
To Rent. Small
people.
tenement suitable for two
H. Waits & Son
Wanted. Girl for Chamber Work and Din
ing Koom at Hyde Park Jnn.. 'Phone 13-2,
Lost. A Dark Red Coat Sweater, in Morris-
ville or on road to Stowe. Finder please return
to this othce tor reward,
To Rent. Furnished Cottage for the summer;
pleasant summer resort Inquire at
News aud Citizen Office, Morrisville.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Lows, UulMand Hogs.
Tel.124-31 John Miner, Hyde Park.
MORRISVILLE
Miss Gertrude Whittetnore visited rela
tives in Watei ville the past week.
Mrs. J. P. Boj-lao and two children
visited at Mrs. Ed. Robinson's in Stowe
the past week.
Mrs. Lawrence and two children of
Lake Placid, N. Y. are visiting her sister
Mrs. John Ovitt. ,
Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Flanders of Con
cord, N. H., came Monday for a visit
with F. P. and Maude Moulton.
Miss Florence S. Chaffee is assisting in
the A. W. Waite grocery this week, as
cashier. Erie Morrill is also assisting in
the store this week.
Dr. Lloyd Robinson returned Thursday
from Saranac Lake, N. Y., where he has
passed a week. Mrs. Robinson and son
John remained for a longer stay.
Mrs. C. M. Boynton and granddaugh
ter, Miss Louise Slocum went to Rutland
Monday to attend the Slayton-Boynton
wedding, which occurs this evening.
The Red Sox base ball team won their
game at Waterbury Center last Wednes
day afternoon by a score of 9 to 2. Sil
loway, the old P. A. twirler, pitched for
Morrisville.
- C. II. Raymore and family and A. W.
Waite and family left today for Hiifh
gate Springs, where they will spend a
couple of weeks at the Morse cottage.
Geo. C. Morse and family returned from
there today.
J. C. Collette has sold his farm, known
as the "Call and See" place on Laporte
road to Charles H. St. John of North
Troy. The deal was made through the
Oben Real Estate agency ofNewport and
the writings were made yesterday.
B A R G A 1 N S
IN WOMEN'S
aleeby
VERMONT
Miss Myrle Davis of Wolcott is passing
sometime with her sister, Mrs. George
U. Richardson.''
Ray Lilley of Lyndonville was a guest
of his mother, Mrs. F. M. Ober, and fam
ily, last week.
Remember the dance at town ball to
morrow evening; music by Carroll's Or
chestra of Barre.
Miss Minerva Blake of bwantou is a
guest at the home of Mr. and Mrs. S. H.
Martin in Elmore.
Misses W. Bell Rodgers and Obie Har
rell of Eastman, Ga are guests of Miss
Florence A. Chaffee. )
" John Stiles returned to Middlebury to
day, after a few days' visit with his
mother, Mrs. Myra Stiles.
Mr. and Mrs. Fred W. Silloway and
son, Lyle, went last Friday to Ilighgate
Springs to spend a few days at the Ward
cottage.
The Woman's Club Year Books are
now out and may be obtained at the
Library.
Mrs. B. D. Bickford is entertaining her
sister, Mrs. Addie Wales, of Cabot and
her cousin, Mrs. Nellie Hayford of New
Bedford, Conn.
Mrs. J. P. McCullough of Berkley,
Calif., who has been the guest of her sis
ter, Mrs. G. A. Cheney, left Monday for
Lebanon, N. II.. for a visit with her sis
ter, Mrs. G. E. Young.
Dr. and Mrs. A. II. Smith of Fitehburg
Mass., who have visited the latter's par
ents, Mr. and Mrs. G. C. Gould, went
Friday to Barre to visit friends, after
wards going into camp at Caspian Lake.
Lawrence J. Cox, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Cox, of Morrisville, and Chris
tina Munson, of St. Johnsbury, were
united in marriage at the parsonage, last
Saturday eveuingRev. W. T. Best offici
ating. Mrs. J. R. Parker came home from
Greensboro last night and went to Bur
lington this morning to attend a State
Grange lecturers' meeting. Mrs. Clarence
Day also attended the meeting, in com
pany with Mrs. Parker.
Mrs. E. P. Darling and daughters, Miss
Paulina and Mrs. A. H, Berry, and the
latter's daughter, have been guests of
relatives in Calais this week. Mrs. Berry
and daughter will return to their home
in New York City the latter part of this
week. ... ' . t ... ! ... )
b. M. Pike ot lirooklyn, IM. Y., was a
guest over Sunday -of Mrs. Pike at Lake
Elmore, where Mrs. Pike has been in
camp with her sister, Mrs. W. M. Sar
gent, and family. Dr. and Mrs. George
C. Rublee were also guests at the cottage
over Sunday.
Air. and Mrs. J. 1'eck, who are
spending the summer with their daugh
ter, Mrs. W. 0. Jeffords, and family, at
East Ilardwick. are guests this week at
the home of Mrs. Permelia Boynton.
Mr. Peck is superintending the erection
of a barn for Mr. Jeffords.
Mr. and Mrs Rufus Montague of Cali
fornia, who spent last winter here, ar
rived in town Monday night and will
make their home here. Mr. and Mrs.
Montague left Vermont about twenty
five years ago, since which time they
have lived in the far west.
George Brady of Cambridge, an old
time horseman, is now on the Fair
Ground, with a horse, which will be en
tered for the races at the County Fair.
There will be other horses on the ground
later and indications point to large fields
and some real racing the last two days
of the big event.
"Mr. and Mrs. Charles Chamberlin of
Canaan and Judge and Mrs. Robert
Chamberlin and granddaughter, Miss
Katherene Chamberlin of Berlin, N. H.,
and Mrs. F. Elwin Churchill, who is vis
iting her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Chamberlin, were guests ai the Chur
chill farm from Wednesday to Friday.
Frank Wright, who has been living in
this village since selling his Laporte road
farm last fall, has purchased the D. II.
Martin farm between Wolcott and Ilard
wick. The deal was closed Monday
through the II. C. Smith real estate
agency and possession is given at once.
Mr. Wright does not expect to move his
family there until about Sept. 1.
Mrs. Austin Wilkins has received a let
ter stating that Mr. Wilkins, G. A,- Wil
kins and Miss Flora Wilkins, who have
been visiting in Miles City, Montana,
will visit Yellowstone Park before re
turning. They expect to be home in a
bout two weeks. "They will go there in
company with Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Mc
Connell, of Miles City, the latter being a
daughter of the late, Bernie Wilkins.
Noyes G. Slayton of New York was a
guest Saturday and Sunday of his par
ents, Mr. and Mrs. II. A. Slayton, leav
ing Monday for Rutland, where his mar
riage to Miss Pauline Boynton, daugh
ter of Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Boynton, takes
place this evening. Mr. and Mrs. Slay
ton left yesterday afternoon by auto and
Mr. aud Mrs. A. II. Slayton and Mrs.
Frank Peck went to Rutland today to be
present at the wedding.
More Business For Morrisville
The Brigham Milk Company of Boston
is beginning operations on its land west
of Wabun Avenue for the erection of a
large creamery and milk station. The
Brigham Co. is one of the large milk con
cerns and has a large number of cream
eries in various parts of New England.
They have run a business in Cambridge
for some time and last fall purchased of
the Board of Trade 125 feet, fronting on
the railroad and running back as far as
the Board owns. An ice house was erect
ed and filled there last fall and the plant
will be rushed as fast as possible, as they
wish to begia business in the early fall.
Tbe village water is now being extend
ed to the plant, the. sewer is being laid
and the foundation is being put in.
The building is in charge of C. A. Spil-
ler, who will start a large force of car
penters at once.
Service in Academy Park
If the weather is favorable on next
Sunday evening the A. C. church wili
hold services in Academy Park, begin
tiitig with a rousing song service 7:30 to
8 o'clock. This pap;r is requested to in
vite "all peculiar people to attend this
peculiar service with a peculiar subject."
Effects of Electrical Storm
In the electrical storm early Monday
morning lightning entered thefarm house
of A. J. Brooks, on the telephone wire.
Mr. Brooks, who was looking out the
window of the living room, with bis
knees on a steel couch and one hand
against the window was seriously injured.
Other members of the family were in the
room, but were uninjured, their first
knowledge that the lightning had struck
the house being when they saw Mr.
Brooks lying on his back on the couch,
with his arms out straight in front of
bim, apparently lifeless.' He was taken
to a Morris chair across the room, and
for some time the only sign of life was a
slight heart action. His condition con
tinued to improve, however, and he was
able to be around the house, but as his
limbs and bead pained him severely a
physieian was called Monday night. He
was feeling better last night and it is ex
pected that his recovery will be complete
and speedy. The only marks upon Mr.
Brooks body is a place on the back of his
head where the hair was singed and a
burn nn.cry'ieg, where the limb probably
came in contact with the steel couch.
Incidentally this is the first time in Mr.
Brooks' life that a physician was ever
called to attend him personally.
Other disasterious effects of the storm
were noted in other seetions of town,
where trees were blown down and corn
seriously damaged. At the home of W.
W. Thomas a part of a large elm tree
was blown down. It struck a corner of
the house and just missed crashing thro'
the roof.
A Ford Announcement
The 1917 schedule of prices for Ford cars
places the touring cars at $3G0, and the
runabouts at $345. The local firm of
McMahon Bros, will not guarantee de
livery after August 10, 1916. '
It is understood that the Ford Motor
company will shortly announce several
sensations eclipsing any move previously
made by it in the automobile world.
For the first time, the style of the Ford
car will be radically changed, the radia
tor and general outlines being remodelled
on present day lines.
Lamoille Grange
The next meeting of Lamoille Grange
has been changed from the afternoon to
the evening ot August 10, on account of
initiatory work in third and fourth de
grees.
Miss Lenora Austin of Boston is visit
ing her sister, Mrs. C. J. Marrs.
Mrs. E. L. Stockwell of Burlington
came Tuesday for an extended stay with
his sister, Mrs. Leon Gallup, ber mother,
Mrs. Fred Marshall, and sister, Mrs.
Nellie Amsden. t
Eight members of the Ilardwick band
were guests of the Morrisville baud last
Thursday evening and assisted in the
rendition of a most excellent band con
cert program. Come again.
Mr. and Mrs. E. G. Wilson have
shipped their household goods to Bur
lington, where Mr. Wilson is employed.
Harlie Wilson went to Burlington Tues
day, where he will continue his musical
studies with Geo. II. Wilder. He will
enter a business college this fall.
Henry D. Bryant,"' one of Morris ville's
oldest residents aud for many years one
of the best known business men, cele
brated his 83d birthday yesterday. Mr.
Bryant is remarkably active for one of
bis years and his many friends wish him
many pleasant returns of the day.
Geo. W. Clark is building an office
south of his residence on the corner of
Congress and Winter streets. The build-
ng will face on Congress street, but will
set back from the line of the other resi
dences. It will be a small two room
building with a wide veranda on the
front. The carpenter work will be done
by C. A. Spiller. 1
THE EARLE STORE
Wash Silh Waists
We are showing a new line of very attractive Wash S.lk"
Waists in white that any one can appreciate. They
are strictly new in design and very neatly trimmed.
Smochs White ana Colors
This 'is another new invoice and are said to be the pfet
tiest of the'Tund shown this season. They are very hard
. to git and if you need one, vou had better came soon.
Sumrner Coats
Thi-re are two or three
close out at a very low
lor some one.
Slimmer Underwear
Remember, we carry everything in Ladies' and Misses'
Underwear, both in separate garments and combination.
Also, Hosiery of every description. Ask to see the Bur
son Hose.
GEORGE
Morrisville,
Wii a .ii.t ill iiii ftM
Lamoille Central Academy
HYDIJ PARK, VT
FALL TERM OPENS TUESDAY, SEPT. 5, 1916
THE ACADEMY OFFERS
A Course in Agriculture covering the entire four years and fitting the
student for a life work in harmony with his environment,
An Academic Course which is approved by the New England College En
trance Certificate Board and the Board of Eduation of the State of Vt.,
A competent and enlarged teaching force, which lends its association to
the vital needs of the students
A modern, practical, and sufficient equipment, including laboratory and
reference library.
The Principal and Teachers will be at the Academy forenoons from
Aug. 28 to Sept. 2, for talks with those planning to attend.
Write for Catalogue and the Special Agricultural Prospectus.
A. D. SIMPSON, HRIN.
n
Suggested For County Senator
Editor News and Citizen:
Acting for an organization of Cam
bridge Republican voters, agreeable to
the provisions of Sec. 6, Act 4, Public Acts
1915, I have this day filed with the
County Clerk, Primary Petitions as re
quired bylaw, together with the assent
of Linus Leavens of this town to the use
of bis name as a candidate for the Re
publican nomination for Senator at the
primary election to be held on Sept. 12th
next. These petitions are signed by rep
resentative men in every town in the
County. The reception given us by these
men, their prompt recognition of the
claims of our town, and theunquestioned
standing and ability of our candidate,
inspires the publication ot this state
merit and is our appeal to the Republican
voters ot the Lounty tor their support.
F. M. Willey, Ssc'y.
Cambridge, Vt., July 28, 1916.
A Day at Lake Morey
Some twenty editors, mostly from the
east side of the state, and two from over
in New Hampshire, were guests last Sat
urday of Col. H. E Parker at Lake Mor
ey. Tbe day was fine and the place an
ideal one for an outing where the cares
and anxieties of the daily routine of the
print shop could be put aside and an
opportunity given to "get next to na1
ture." While a large part of the day was
spent in visiting and feasting a good
share was devoted to "shop talk," in
which advertising rates, (political and
otherwise.) obituaries, cards of thanks,
resolutions, church suppers, food sales.
&c, were discussed. It was tne con
census of opinion" that all these things
should be paid for, that the newspaper
man was in the business to make a liveli
hood and he should receive remuneration
for such things, making a fair charge for
the same. Some papers have long done
this and as a rule all are satisfied. Col.
Parker, who by the way, has been in the
newspaper business nearly forty years,
takes pride in being in this class. It was
an interesting and profitable discussion
and we trust may be productive of good
results. , , . .
The headquarters during thesojourn at
the lake were at the Bungalow Inn, F. H.
& L. C. Griffin proprietors. The house is
pleasantly located at one of the beauty
spots on the lake. It is decidedly home
like, the rooms are cool and unique and
the cusine excellent. Frank Grillin is an
ideal landlord. Lunch and dinner were
served there the latter being a "shore
dinner" which was served on the outside
observation veranda. It was a feast
equal to any seaside resort, well pre
oared. well served and interspersed with
good cheer and fireworks. . -
Music bv the Bradford Hand, a trip
around the lake in Capt. Lucas' pretty
steamer "Misitwakit, auto rides and a
visit to t e Casino were amongtheinter
esting events. It was a late hour when
the Colonel's guests departed, all de
lighted with the enjoyable outing he had
given tbeni.
No, there were not any politics id it
they were "tabooed" in the invitation
and the request strictly adhered to.
Summer Coats left that we will
price. It is a good opportunity
F. EARLE
Vermont
HYDE PARK
Mrs. F. N. Keeler of Greenfield, Mass.,
is visiting ia town. '
Mrs. V. D. Strong and daughters are
in camp at Lake Elmore.
Page Uflbrd and wife are spending a
week in Westford and Fairfax.
Mrs. M. L. Henry of Bridgeton, Me!,
was a recent guest of Mrs. Eva Boyce.:
M iss Dorothy Savery of New Haven,
Conn., is the guest of relatives at the Inn.
Mr. and Mrs. Lyman Darling of' Ca
naan are visitors at the home of P. T.
Demo.
Miss Gladys Abbottof Franklin.Mass.,
is visiting at the home of her uncle, S. B.
Waite. '
Prof, and Mrs. Fred Johnstone ofNew
port, R. I., are visiting her mother, Mrs.
Eva Boyce.
David Valleau of Oshawa, Out., a
brother of Mrs. II. A. Noyes, is visiting
relatives here.
Miss Winnie Rooney of Albany, N. Y
has been visiting her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. B. G. Rooney.
Miss Sadie Gregg is spending a few
days at Joe's Pond with the Misses Ade
laid and Annie Badger.
Mrs. Moses Newcity was taken to the
hospital last Friday, where she is now
undergoing treatment.
Town and Village taxes are now pay
able. Frank Keeler bears off the honors
as being the first person to pay both.
Mr. and Mr Chas. Goddard, Mrs. Re
becca Goddard and Miss Helen Water
man were visitors in Burlington Tuesday.
Mrs. E. G. Page, the Page brothers,
Miss Fisk, Miss George and Miss Smith,
are in camp at Lake Morey for a couple
of weeks.
"Some" storm was that which struck
this place between three and four o'clock
Monday morning. The rain fell in tor.
rents and the thunder and lightning was
great, while the wind blew "a perfect
gale." In some parts of town trees were
blown down and hay and grain badly
lodged. It was the worse storm in years.
Lamoille County Golf Glub
Representatives from Johnson, Morris
ville and Hyde Park met yetterday and
organized the Lamoille County Golf
Club. An option on land at Hyde Park
has been secured of Gavin Tyndall, said
to be the finest for the purpose in north
ern Vermont. A committee, consisting
of II. V. Gordon of Johnson, Dr. Slayton
of Morrisville and B. W. McFarland cf
Hyde Park, has been appointed to solicit
subscriptions for stock in the enterprise.
