ojrclia
MAN'Y a man who says lie Is look
InE for work would be terribly
disappointed if tic found any.
gPKAKIXG of military training
what about the man who is dhj
aina up his baek yard these days?
HOME EDJTTON
TOPEKA, KANSAS, THURSDAY EVENING, MARCH 30, 1916 -TEN PAGES
THIS EDITION 2 CENTS
ri-
PERSHING'S
IN FOR A
LONG HUNT
Tins Projected Relentless Cam
paign of Weeks.
No Letup Until Villa's Cap
tured, Ills Slotran.
SUPPLIES BY RAIL TODAY
To Take Immediate Advantace
of Oarranza (irant.
Railroad, However. Is in a Ii
lapidated Condition.
WHERE IS THAT MAN VILLA?
One Report Locates Him Far
From 1. S. Troops.
Is Believed to Have Scattered
Hands as Base.
Kl Paso, March 30. Brigadier Gen
eral John J. Pershing has projected
a long and relentless campaign in the
hunt for Francisco Villa a cha.se that
may last many weeks before the flee
ing bandit is captured. This informa
tion was gleaned here today from
military men who made no secret of
their belief that Villa has slipped
through the cordon of Carranza forces
and American troops. Mexican offi
cials said today they had no news as
to the whereabouts of Villa, but that
the troops of the de facto government
were aiding the American soldier?.
The last information was that Villa
was moving through the Santa Maria
valley. Ranchers from the Chihuahua
district said when it became known
there was a price upon Villa's head,
dead or alive, the bandit would be in
constant danger of betrayal. Whether
the American troops have made It
known that there is a reward for Villa
has not been learned here but it is
assumed that U word has been
spread about among the peon popula
tion as the American soldiers move
from place to place. Roving bands of
Villa men are reported everywhere in
the region of the Santa Maria valley
but apparently the American flying
colum ns have not come into contact
with them.
i t'ii Carloads to Columbus.
Rrigadier General George Bell, com
mander of the base at Fort Bliss,
awaited official orders today to ship
supplies to the army over the Mexico
Northwestern railroad. Gasoline,
fi i rage, canned goods and flour will
go forward as soon as the orders are
received.
Meanwhile Major Elliott, depart
ment quartermaster, is moving sup
plies in great bulk to Columbus, N.
M.. where they are carried in truck
trains over the Mexican desert to the
army base below Casas Grandee. Ten
carloads were shipped to Columbus
early today while ten motor trucks
were also sent to the army bftse there.
Twenty-seven more motor trucks will
go forward late today.
Sent SO Days' Supply by Kail.
Major Elliott said he has already
shipped from El Paso supplies suffi
cient to feed the expeditionary forces
in Mexico for thirty days. Part jf
these supplies already is at Casas
Grandes, part is nearing the field
base and the remainder would be there
before long, the major said. Mer
chants of Kl Paso and its vicinity are
besieging the army for contracts. They
offer to ship unlimited supplies south,
(Continued on Page 2.)
RESUME AERO RUN
Weather Condition Attain Per
mits Use of Aeroplane.
Sickness Among Troopers
Mexico Is Slight
Columbus, March 30. Resumption
of the army aeroplane dispatch line
which has been suspended temporarily
because of climatic conditions is ex
pected today. Lieut. Edgar S. QorreU
said he planned to start a flight to
Casas Grandes and the first plane
from the front for three days is
scheduled to arrive.
Lieutenant Gorrell prepared to carry
more than one hundred newspapers
from various sections of the I'nited
States for which the troops had asked.
Reports received at the base hospital
here spoke well of the stamina of the
men at the front, the percentage of
sickness being at a minimum despite
the burning sun of day and sharp
chill of night to which the troops are
exposed-
A few cases of heat p rost ra t i o n
have been reported, four negro infan
trymen who recently have finished a
detail of duty in the Philippines being
brought here today.
WAR PRICES ON PLUMES;
460,000 OSTRICH STARVE
New York. March 30. Leading
millinors today announced that
ostrich plumes worth tefore the
war now cost $4.50. because a corn
shortage, due to the closing of
Knropean markets, has starved to
death 460.00(1 of the SOO.000
ostriches in South Africa, the home
of the ostrich feather industry.
I
Union Demand
Hits 180 Rail
Lines in U. S.
Chicago. March 30. The de
mands presented today by repre
sentatives of the so-called '"big
four trainmen's unions" involve
180 railway systems with 248.000
miles of right of way. exclusive of
terminals and yards. In the west
ern territory there are 100 rail
roads with 138.000 mileage. In
the eastern territory 60 railroads
with 63.000 mileage and in the
southeastern territory, 20 rail
roads with 47,000 mileage.
UP TO THE ROADS
Demand of 400,000 Workers
Submitted Today.
Give Companies Until April 29
to Make Reply.
New York. March 30. The demand
of nearly 400.000 locomotive en
gineers, firemen and trainmen will be
presented to the general managers of
the several railroad companies in
volved, at their headquarters in differ
ent parts of the country today. The
employees who belong to the so-called
big four unions, asked for an eight
hour day without reduction in pay and
time and a half for overtime. The
railroads have until April 29 to reply.
It is understood the railroads already
have made ready a tentative answer
which amounts to a conditional re
fusal that leaves the way open for
further negotiations.
The demands of the men went to
the Wheeling & L&Xe Erie railroad
yesterday and the eight-hour day pro
posal was refused. The position of
the unions is explained in a statement
by the executive committee of the ad
justment boards which have charge
of the submission of the demands to
day. The committee's statement says:
Pleads Injustice.
"In making the demand for the
eight-hour day, the unions feel them
selves justified, believing that trains
can be managed so that the 100 miles
required of railroad men per day can
be put inside of eight hours. As the
train service is now. single crew en
gines in the switc-ning service on
which only one crew works in the 24,
are often compelled to work from ten
to sixteen hours a day. It is such an
injustice that the railroad unions want
ended.
"We will submit our demands all
over the United States. Then we will
attend to our regular routine work un
til the end of 30 days given the rail
roads to consider our demands when
we will return to receive the reply of
the railroad company. We will ask
the general managers to discuss the
demands through their general man
agers committee. Our desire is to
open negotiations with the railroads
in our demands and we have no in
tention of talking strike to the rail
roads or submitting an untimatum."
IMIKKKNT COrVTKR CLAIMS.
Itaih-oads in Concerted Action Reply
to Demands of Unions.
Cleveland. O., March 30. Replying
to the demands railraods throughout
the country today submitted counter
demands, which are in effect a com
plete refusal of the request of the
trainmen.
Statements issued in New York,
Chicago and Cleveland showed that
concerted action was taken by the
railroads.
The Cleveland statement was issued
by D. C. Moon, general manager of
the New York Central, west of Buf
falo. The New York statement was
issued by Frank H. Fayont, director
of publicity for the conference com
mittee of managers, eastern territory.
The counter claims presented are:
No double compensation for the
same time or service.
The same classification for the pur
pose of compensation to be applied to
all members of train and engine
crews-.
ON HIGHER PLANE
" V5Zz:"pr"b
Predicts Day When Recruits
Must Be Technical Men.
Washington, March 30. Secretary
Daniels views regarding the navy's
part in the national preparedness
plans were sought today when the
house naval committee continued its
hearings.
The annual loss from terminating
enlistment was 12,8 75 men, he said.
and wastage from other causes was
N.250. To add a single man to the full
quota, he added meant that the 8.250
in list be first restored by new enlist
ment. Requirements are so rigid that
only one in six applicants is accepted.
The secretarys own recommendations
based on the experience of the de
partment and advice of many officers,
looked to a total enlisted strength of
(7,964 men.
"In time of peace," he said, "l do
not believe we can add 20,000 men to
the navy in one year as has been sug
gested. We now have difficulty In
keeping the present quota full because
of high wages ashore." The problem.
Secretary Daniels said, was to enlist
men of the right type.
"The navy today," he sard, "is a
jjreat machine shop. I believe the day
will come when we will not accept any
man who has not had some experience
as a chauffeur or machinist or in oth
er vocational callings.
"You can never have an efficient
navy." he said, "if you build a bulk
head so high that young men who en
ter at the bottom cannot rise to the
top. I burned a bushel of recruiting
literature showing men going to the
tropics and associating with half
dressed women. It was indecent."
More engineering officers are neces
sary" and Secretary Daniels urged also
that two or three great educators "as
great as there are in the country,"
should be added to the corps of in
structors at the naval academy. He
asked that an appropriation of $150,
000 be provided for their pay.
SANTA FE RIGHT
BACK AT UNIONS
IN RAILDEMAND;
General .Manager Konns Would j
Open Up All Contract.
Answers Request Made hy '
Brotherhoods Today.
FIRST 8-HOUR SHOT FIRED
Forma! Statement Filed in To
peka as Headquarters.
General Action in All Parts of J
the United States.
The most important situation "lat
has ever faced railroads in this conn- i
try was formally opened in Topeka
this morning when C. W. Kouns, gen
eral manager of the eastern lines of j
the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe rail
way received from officials of the
brotherhood of engineme, firemen and
trainmen their first formal demand
for the establishment of an eight hour
basic day in all branches of freight
service. Within less than an hour Mr. ;
Kouns issued a counter demand on be-
half of the Santa Fe which opens up
a new situation.
In his answer, Mr. Kouns demands
that when an arbitration board meets
to consider the demands of the men j
every phase of the contract under
which the trainmen and enginemen ,
are working be investigated. The
magnitude of such an undertaking will
totally eclipse any situation that has
ever before appeared in the history of
American railways, officials declare
today.
The first gun in the fight was fired
this morning when Kouns received
from officials representing brother
hoods on the eastern and western lines
of the road copies of their demrnds.
The demands of the men were ac
companied by a letter asking that Mr.
Kouns allow the association of gener
al managers to represent him in nego
tiations between the men and the
roads.
In his answer Mr. Kouns declared
that this feature would be considered '
by the road at a later date.
At the same time representatives of
brotherhoods on every road in the !
country and a number of Canadian j
roads mailed similar statements.
In the demands, the men are seek- i
ing only for an eight hour day on j
runs of 100 miles or lesa. Retween
terminals of I $6 miles or more over- J
time pay would pot commence until .
men had been on duty ten hours.
18 Reads Under It Now.
Eighteen roads are now operating
under such an agreement, represent- j
atives of the brotherhoods point out I
in a statement issued this morning.
Statements by railway officials place
the average length of time required to
make a run of 100 miles or less at less
than seven hours. The vast majority
of employees consequently will not be I
effected by the changes asked for by
the brotherhoods, it is pointed out. An
eight-hour basic day, however, would
offer relief to the employees who are
now compelled to work from ten to
sixteen hours a day. Principally for
the benefit of these men the changes
are being demanded, according to the
statement.
Kosms's Statement.
General Manager Kouns's answer to
the demand follows, in full:
Your communication of 29th giving
notice of your desire to revise present
wage schedules and agreements, ac- j
cording to certain proposals stSOS a
part of that notice, has this day been
received.
The present standards of rates and I
working conditions have been very
largely fixed by mediation and arbi
tration, and this company feels that
they are adequate and even liberal to
the employee. This company has no
desire to change either the existing ,
rates of pay or the working rules, j
nor to reduce the earning possibilities
of the employees under their existing
rules, but inasmuch as your proposals
contemplate fundamental changes In
operating methods and practices on
which the schedules have been built up.
this company hereby gives notice In
conformity with the schedules n-w In
effect that In connection with and as
a part of the consideration anil din
position of your proposals there shall ,
be open for consideration and disposi
tion those provisions in the schedules
or practices thereunder governing
compensation in the classes of service
affected bv your proposals or those in
conflict with the following principles
as thev apply to such classes:
(a) No double compensation for the
same time or service.
(b) The same classification for the
purposes of compensation to be ap
plied to all members of a train and
engine crew.
( c ) Two or more d i f f e re n tl y paid
classes of service performed In the
same day or trip to be paid propor
tionate rates according to the class of
service with not less than a minimum
day for the combined service.
As to entering into a collective
movement, this feature of the proposi
tion will be taken under consideration
and advice given later. Very respect-
taUy- C W. KOTTNS.
Santa Fes Side.
"Not a word is found in the demand
that would require a man to work as
much as eisnt hours for a day's pay."
said General Manager Kouns to a
reporter for the State Journal. "It is
specifically provided In the demand
that '100 miles or less, eight hours or
less.' shall constitute a day. Why the
use of the words 'or less' if the men
really want an eight-hour day? If
the men cannot get in a day's work
in less than eight hours, and thus
make a saving, the -xtra pay for time
and a half is sufficiently tempting to
warrant some effort in that direction.
"If granted, the increases on the
Santa Fe would wipe out a large per
cent of the company's annual net
earnings thus impairing its anility to
keep the property up to standard, pre
venting expansion and curtailing ma
terially the work of aiding in the de
velopment of the natural resources of
the territory served. Santa Fe In
creases would he J2. 700.000. In
creases for all the railroads of the
rContlnned from Page Two.
Weather Forecast for Kansas.
Partly cloudy, possibly unsettled
and cooler tonight; Friday probably
fair.
Society Gowns
Swell Funds
for War Relief
New York, March 30. Two
hundred per-fect-ly luv-a-ly Paris
gowns will be auctioned off to the
highest feminine bidders at the
American Ambulance headquar
ters here today. The gowns are
creations, "perfect dreams,' de
signed by the most exclusive Paris
modistes. They were contributed
by such society women as Mrs. W.
K. Vanderbilt. Mrs. E. H. Har
riman, Miss Helen Frick, Mrs.
Ogden L. Mills, Mrs. Harry Payne
Whitney, Mrs. Joseph H. Choate,
jr., and others. The proceeds will
go to swell the f and for American
ambulance relief work on the
European battlefields.
RAIN AND THUNDER
Storm Arrived in Topeka Sev-:
eral Hours Late.
('older Weather Is Predicted
by Weather Bureau.
A heavy rain fell here today, ac- 1
companied by lightning and thunder.
The sky became heavily overcast at
eleven o'clock this morning and To
peka took on the appearance of even
ing. All the stores were lighted with
electricity and lights were burning in
offices and homes.
Following a slight shower at 8
o'clock this morning it was thought
that the storm had passed and the
rain later in the day was completely
unexpected. The rain continued inter
mittently all the afternoon. Weather
reports yesterday indicated that the
storm was due last night. Arriving in
the day time, the predicted possibil
ity of snow was precluded.
Temperatures were still above
normal but a drop is expected
tonight. Tomorrow morning the mer
cury may reach freezing and it is cer
tain that it will be colder than this
morning. The wind has shifted to the
northwest.
The forecast calls for partly cloudy
and possibly unsettled weather to
night, with lower temperatures; Fri
day probably fair. Temperatures of
116 degrees are predicted foe 36-hour
shipments north and west: east and
south, above freezing.
The lowest reading this1 morning
was 42 degrees at 7 o'clock. This is
5 degrees above normal. On account
of the chilly wind the morning seemed
colder than the thermometer indi
cated. The mercury reached 71 de
grees yesterday afternoon and today
seemed cold by comparison. The
highest temperature on record for this
date is 80 degrees, established in 1913.
The low record, 22 degrees, occurred
in 1S99. - . j
The Kaw river this morning showed
a fall of one-tenth of a foot since yes
terday, making the stage 6.5 feet.
Thirty-Tour hundredths of an inch
of rain fell up to 2:30 o'clock this
afternoon. The mercury climbed up
to 47 degrees at 10 o'clock but with
the coming of the storm dropped back
again. The average was 4 degrees1
below normal. Reports to the local
weather bureau indicate that the rain
was general over the state with the
exception of the northwest corner.
Following are hourly readings fur
nished by the weather bureau;
7 o'clock 42 j 11 o'clock 45
8 o'clock 44 j 12 o'clock 44
9 o'clock 45 1 o'clock 44
10 o'clock 47 ( 2 o'clock 43
maOaTrobbed
Bandits Loot Train as It Leaves
Shreveport, La.
Largre Sums in Registered .Mails
Reported Taken.
Shreveport, La.. March 30. When
Texas & Pacific mail train No. 2S,
from New Orleans to Fort Worth. Tex.,
pulled out of the union depot here at
midnight, two men entered the mail
car and demanded the registered mail
of the two clerks in the car. The
robbers, according to the clerks. Peter
Bishop and Regus. left the train be
fore it had gotten well out of the city
Hmits.
Telephone advices from Marshall,
Tex.. 4 2 miles west of here, relate a
description of the robbery given by
Bishop as follows:
'Hello, Boys Hands l'p!"
"We had gone about 10 feet when
two men entered the car, presented
pistols and said: 'Hello, boys! Hands
up!' They then ordered us to the far
end of the car and pulled mail sacks
over our heads and proceeded to rifle
the car of all its registered mail."
The clerks would not divulge the
value of the registered mail and tele
phonic efforts with New Orleans had
the same results. It has been rumor
ed, however, that there was a large
sum of money in it.
TO 72 GERMAN HEROES
Have Received Kaiser's Highest Award
Since War Began.
Berlin, March 30. The order ""Pour
I le Merite. the highest military decor
ation in Germany, has been awarded
to only 7 2 persons since the beginning
of the war. The Vossiche Zeitung an
nounced today that these 71 decora
tions by the kaiser have been distrib
uted as follows:
J 4 to field marshals.
, 7 to commanding generals.
2'Z to generals,
j 8 to lieutenant generals,
j 1 to a field marshal's lieutenant.
6 to major generals.
1 to a grand admiral.
1 to an admiral.
3 to lieutenants.
Among the field marshals are von
Hindenburg and von Mackensen. The
! grand admiral is von Tirpitz. Von
Kluck is among the commanding gen-
erals and the young lieutenants are
the two flying officers who have each
destroyed seven aeroplanes and the
lieutenant who with fifteen men cap
I tured one of the forts of Namur at the
beginning of the war.
TRACE BLAME OF
WRECK TO CRIB
OF A TINY BABY
Father, 'eedingr Sleep, Had
Charge of Signals.
Child Born in Towerman's
Home Last Sunday.
LIST NOW STANDS, 27 DEAD
Several Injured Expected to Die
at Hospitals.
Four investigations of Disaster
Are Underway.
Cleveland. March 30. With twenty-j
seven bodies recovered from yester- j jnes to corisumers Was predicted this jn proset.ut j,n.
day's wreck of three New York Cen- moTning by T. R. Paxton of Paxton &
tral trains at Amherst, Ohio, attention paxton. Mr. Paxton considers his
today was focused on the investiga- j firm verv fortunate in anticipating the New York, March 30. One im
tions that were put under way by fed- : Dresent conditions and preparing for portant witness desired by the .iis-
eral, state and railroad authorities to
determine responsibility for the wreck.
Representatives of the interstate :
commerce commission, the utilities
commission of Ohio and various de-
partment heads of the New York Cen- j
tral were conducting investigations in
Cleveland and at other points in the
vicinity of the wreck.
Coroner Charles Garver of Lorain
county, planned to oegin an inquesi. i ; costing us at this time $14 a dozen."
Elyria into the death of the wreck vie- Differ at Pelletier'
tims. The question of wnether the: uuier at rei. r
so-called "death coach" on train No. Apparently a diversity of opinion
86 was of modern steel construction as ! exists regarding market conditions be
claimed by New York Central officials ! tween A. P. McKown, manager of Pel
or was mainly of wood construction j letier,s and F M pelletier himself.
promised to be an important feature ' , . , .
ot the investigation. In an interview this morning Mr Pel -
Engineer Shares Blame? ' lier declared that not an article in
Railroad officials today were still the store had increased in price and.
divided in opinion as to whether the j in fact, there probably would be no ln
blame should be placed upon the j crease.
towerman who, it is alleged was asleep j look on the present alleged con-
and failed to give the proper signal or ditions as attempts of jobbers to un
upon the engineer who officials say i load markets," said Mr. Pelletier. "I
either failed to see the signal or ex- ! was in Excelsior Springs the other day
ceeded his orders.
Of the more tiian forty persons in
(Continued on Page 2.)
TRY NIGHT ATTACK
Germans Fail to Regain Avo-
eonrt Wood Position. " '
AM bo i Further 4 rivaneA
Jiase o runner Aaianie
Against Malaneonrt.
Paris. March 30. Several German
infantry attacks upon Avocourt Wood
in an endeavor to retake lost positions
were made last night The war office
report of this afternoon says these
assaults failed. No further advances
against Malancourt were attempted by
the Germans. Sast of the Meuae
there wan heavy artillery fighting.
The attempts of the Teutons to
carry their advance farther, however,
were stopped by the French fire, as
also were three counter attacks
1,1 ' r, v . , , . . . . ,
wood, south of Malancourt. which had
previously been taken from them by
French infantry attack. The German
oinciai com muni caxioii says mat tne
; ancourt was over a front of more than From PeUeUer's Ad.
j a mile. Mr. Pelletier announced in a s-ignifi-
I Daring the German offensive on cant advertisement in the State Jour
Malancourt the French heavy guns j nal yesterday, quoting from a news
: from the Argonne were directing their item in this paper a few days since,
; fire on the Malancourt and Avocourt i about the scarcity of linens and pend
j woods. ; ing advanced prices thereof, that
German trenches have been taken : while their store had plenty of linens.
; by the P.ussians in the Oginski canal
reason.
The Russians have beer on the of
fensive along the Stripa river region
and the Bessarabian front.
IS POLITEST WARRIOR
General Gavira Wins Title: Is Car
ranza leader in Chihuahua.
Juarez, Mexico, March
30.-
.ne
politest man in Mexico as office
' , jthe summer season and pernaps ow -
utes walk from the international;. n .,itimai
bridge. He was unusually polite to
day. He is commandant of the Carran-
zista army of Chihuahua. Name, Gen
erale Gabrial (etc.) Gavira. He talks
English mostly with his shoulders and plying only 3 per cent of the tonnage hardly distinguishable imitation of
hands, but his motto is "We strive to i desired by Europe, waa a statement mahogany is gone and furniture mak
please." To most questions his an- mariP todav noon by S. J. Hodgins of ers must wait for peace until opera -
swer is:
"I dunno. I tak' all my what you
call? ordaire from my jefe primero."
( nrM chier. )
"Well, what does Carranza say?"
"I have no instruction." Gavira
! grins. Then he tows you over to his
war map and proceeds to tell you all
i about how his men are going to cap
ture Villa within twelve hours. All;
j the time he exudes thirty-second de -
gree politeness and r.o news.
SECOND OSBORNE TRIAL
Acquitted f Perjury. Reform bin
Sing Warden Faces New Charge.
( White Plains, X. Y.. March 30.
Thomas Mott Osborne, millionaire so
ciologist and warden-on-kave of Sin;?
I ying penitentiary, is scheduled to be
i tried in state supreme court here to
I day on an indictment charging him
I with nvsmanagement of the prison.
.Osborne recently was acquitted on the
other indictment charging him with
perjury. It was alleged he misstated
' facts concerning the morality of pris
' oners, while under oath. Osborne's
friends say the "gang" is trying to
"get" Osborne "because he killed the
District Attorney Weeks refutes the
1 statement.
prison graft and cleaned things up.
HEAR EVERY DAY
OF INCREASE IN
COST OF GOODS
Wholesalers Send Notes of
Warning to Retailers.
T. R. Paxton Points Out Rea
sons for Higher Prices Here.
PRINTING MATERIAL SKY HI6H
American Paper 31 ills Only Fill
2 Per Cent Foreign Orders.
Dressing- Tallies Without .Mir
rors, Says .1. C. Emahizer.
ultimate increase in practically all
them to a great extent. I
-"Every day." said Mr. Paxton. "we I
ruvivo cards from wholesales with- I
drawing prices and notifying us that ;
. .-I. -ii. -i-.- ia
charsed on the" day of shipment. This
Is not only true in the dry goods line
but in hardware and other lines. Take
overalls for example. There i one
line we sell for a dollar a pair that is
and a jobber told me that he had done
the biggest business in years this
spring. Country stores are loading
themselves down and next year the
jobbers will find themselves without
many orders. Then will be the time
when I will come in and get goods at
my prices. No, sir. there will be no
increase. True, we get cards from
wholesalers notifying us of the condi
tion of the market but we are doing
'the buying, they're not. Nor has our
t buying been exceptionally heavy."
On the other hand. A. P. McKown
i admitted today that despite his firm's
, anticiDatorv action of present condi
tions in purchasing large quantities of
merchandise, even now it had been
found necessary to demand higher
; amomr the eoods that
; pelletier's have found they could not
i sell at old prices, Mr. McKown stated,
Protect Against liOss.
: "However," said Mr. McKown, "we
'do not wish it understood that a gen
eral increase is in torce at tnis time.
We anticipated the present conditions
f the markets and as many other
I merchants have done purchased
; anywhere from 50 to 100 per
cent of our advance season goods in
stead of a small per cent as in past
i years. No matter how we try to avoid
hoistine prices to consumers some
: ' . "L,Me l. vJ .
thing must be done eventually to pro
tect us against loss. We may sell
loss for
time
i i :
and at the old prices, this was to be
I said:
i "However, there's no use denying
the fact that linens are scarce and
that prices are advancing. We're go
ing to sell what we have at the old
i prices and then what costs us more
; will cost you more. Wise indeed are
I those who buy liberal quantities now."
Clothing Situation Serious,
i p. w. Vanderhoff of the Palace
riothin company stated that an im-
i mediate rise on some goods would be
1 next to inevitable. However, anticipa-
1 tory buying so far as possible may
kep prices down to normal during
cannot be averted, Mr. Vanderhoff ; il will be cheaper to buy real mahog
MUnPMi !an" tnan the citation brand. The
r j supply of the peculiar finish whereby
More Paper Trouble. , the manufacturer used to be able to
That American paper mills are sup- take a fence cost and turn out :t
the Central Topeka Paper company in
a talk before employing printers at
iri.ic - , zrzzr-.- . - Youngstown. Marcn ju- ijrricuus
r s tea room. Mr. Hodgins re- , tie more expensive as floor varnish has f n YhoungBlown Sheet & Tube com
Saturday from a meeting of gg almost 100 per oet sine last j pany nere day announced the com
i paper jobbers, where the M-lyL..1? that item M &fwint Prpf,ident WilTOira
Pelletier
turned
rious paper situation was discussed
. , 1
"This means." said Mr. Hodgins,
"that in order to supply their home
trade, American paper manufactur
ers are turning down 9 3 per cent of
their foreign tonnage. Large consum
ers of print paper realized the serious
condition existing, the possibility of
still i uriuer iriLifd.wi in Lfric-s aim
have ordered enough printing done to
last them for a year or more. After
the urinters supply this demand, it is
probable the tenseness ot tne local
situation may oe nwvea to some ex- ) cent aavance mere.
tent, but it will not indicate a de- And do be careful of your china an
crease in price of paper, because the j the old kitchen rangv for prices on
manufacturers will find it necessary to I those have gone to a 30 per cent ad
fill the European orders." ! vance. Clocks also are 40 pe r cent
Mr. Hodgins read a card received
bv all jobbers from various mills
which explains the situation under
which they are laboring. It reads:
"L'ntil further notice, orders will be
accepted only with the conditions that
they are to be tilled at our prices pre
vailing at the time they are ready for
shipment. Orders accepted subject to
conditions beyond our control and our
1 ability to obtain raw material.
Beginning April 1, all en
employing
Get Your Goat
Had Origin in
Racing Jargon
New York. March 30. The
origin of that seemingly senseless,
though in reality highly signifi
cant phrase, "Get Your Goat," is
allegedly explained by Dr. J. Allen
Gilbert of, the Medical Record
Staff. He said today that the
phrase originated among race
track touts "who know that a
high-bred race horse always does
better work on the race track
when he has an old goat friend
for a pal in the paddock; and
race horses' goats sometimes are
stolen by owners or friends of
horses competing in the next day's
races." Now wouldn't that get
your goat?
UNDERTAKER GONE
3Ian Dr. Watte Gave $t,00
Has Disappeared.
V ailT HIS MlHJ as l,asl l.inii
trict attorney to complete the chain
of evidence in the Peck murder case
was still missins early to, lay. He is ,
Eugene O. Kane, the embalmer who
according to Dr. Arthur Warren
Waite. accepted $9,000 in cash
liart
payment of $25,000 Waite was to
have given him for swearing that he
used arsenic in embalming the body
of Waite's weallhv f a 1 her-in -In w
.lohn E. Peck of Grain! llani.'.s Mielii-
gan.
Circulars bearing the photographs
and description of Kane were sent
broadcast from polic headquarters
today on the instructions of the dis
trict attorney. A detective waited all
night at Kane's home but he did not
return. Mrs. Kane said she expected
her husband to come home today.
diazHeadsevolt
KejKirt His Follow Ing Growing
ItapUlly in Soul hern Mexieo.
nr - . . ... Imakp such concessions in short order.
Washington. March 30. Advices on j For lne information of the te de
the nature and extent of the revolu- ( partment American Ambassador Page
tionary movement said io be led by at London today forwarded a report
Felix Diaz in southern Mexico con- that the British destroyer, which aided
tinue to conflict as to facts. Diplomatic j in rfcUing survivors of the Sunex
dispatches today from European b'- had been fired upon twice by a snb
gations in the Mexican capital said marine. Ambassador Page said that
the movement led by Diaz himself was ' his information was not official but
assuming formidable proportions and (appeared to be authentic and sent he
was distinctly anti-American. The report for what it was worth,
other hand, government investigators State department officials consider
hav" repbfied theyhad ' goon reason that Ambassador Page's information
to believe Diaz is not in Mexico at all, tended to substantiate press reports of
but hiding in the I'nited States, prob-
ably in New Orleans.
printers will close their shops on Sat
urday afternoon.
Hall's Notes to Customers.
The Hall Lithographing company is
sending out notices to its customers
reading: "Daily market advances
that affect printing material of every
nature are considerably increasing the
cost of production on all commodities
we manufacture. Our prices are
therefore subject to change without
notice, and goods will be invoiced at
the lowest possible price. All quota
tions are made for immediate accept-
Prices in Furniture.
"Milady and hubby may be com
pelled to forego the joys of porter
house steak because of war prices, but
they can buy a new dining room set
without feeling that they are sitting
on gold pieces as they consume their
beans," according to J. C Emahizer
of the Emahizer & Spielman Furniture
company, "for of all commodities af
fected by war prices furniture has suf
fered the least, except in certain
cases. ' '
Owing to an increase in the i.riee
of varnish and labor the wholesale
price hits generally advanced only
about 10 per cent but in many cases
this has not affected the retail price,
The Mirror, Too.
Perhaps the crudest blow dealt CO
beauty by the war was in the matter
of mirror glass. Many of the whole
sale furniture houses are sending out
dressing tables minus the mirror,
promising to send that most important
part later perhaps. The supply ot
glass has been ho affected that in th
future it may be necessary for milady
to shine up an old tin plate to exam-
ine her features in as she p.-imos be -
fore her dressing table. Glass in many
! cases
has advanced nearly 75 per
1 -r
Also, according to Mr. Emahizer.
uons in tnat line can he renewed,
Spring housecleaning will be a lit-
; " l'eth"ecJ,ar-v ,' shift the rus"
I to cover the worn places.
Canals "Come l'p."
In the furniture line carpets hav?
probably seen the most general risi
in price. In practically every case
carpets and rugs have advanced about
50 per cent. 1 he oriental rug business
is all shot to pieces by war. according
to Mr. Emahizer, and it will be several r
kafM , k . . - ni v.,. ,..i.
,,n th(l mj-ket of thnw inTtiriM
Linoleum has risen 30 per cent. Win-
L How shrteK will not h. rwi -vn
j ;n the summer time nearly 50 per
nigner
Make the old sewing machine do.
tor today local furniture men receive !
an announcement that $ E had been
tacked on to the cost of each machine.
Although straight furniture ha.?
been little affected the only item left
completely unscathed is the talking
machine. The tired business man
tired of paying war prices may revel
in canned grand opera without n
qualm as to unprecedented swollen
bills.
ALL OFF WITH
GERMANY NOW
D. C. SENTIMENT
Slim Chance to Prevent Break
in Diplomatic Relations.
Bespit U. S. Protests, More
Ships Are Being: Sunk.
U-BOAT FIRED ON SURVIVORS
Ambassador Page Reports In
cident in Official Tram.
Submarine Toll Now Averages
Three or Four Ships Daily.
HY ROBERT .1. BF.XDKR.
Washington. March 30. Any ex
j.eciation that the administration
would recede from its determination
to break off diplomatic relations with
Germany, if it is proved a German
submarine attacked the Sussex, vaa
removed, it was intimated today, by
new
r the attack on the steamer
Eit;.'.le Point. Only prompt and com
plete settlement of the whole stihma-
rine issue can prevent the threatened
irupturt and there are officials who
tlielieve such a settlement more likely
fter relations have beer, broken off
;than before
The sinking of the unarmed Eagle
Point, with one American .1 1 ard.
simply adds to the proof that a gen
eral underwater campaign, in defiance
of international law. has been under
taken, officers believe. If this ia so,
it must end and end Quickly, if the
T'nited States is to continue to deal
with Germany. Disavowal of single
instances will not stiff ice.
Immediate Settlement No l ikeiy.
Immediate cessation of such attacks
and settlement of th submarine issu
in all its phases, including the abroga
tion of the armed merchantmen de
cree of March 1. may revnnt the
break. But many officials not
orcnared to believe Germany will
the alleged attack upon the destroyer
l'p to an early hour today no further
f f i d a vi t s had bee n received at t he
state department from survivors of the
Sussex. the Englishman. the Man
chester Engineer or other vessels in
which Americans were endangered.
New Campaign of Terror.
London. March 30. That German
submarines have entered on a new
campaign of terrorism, despite all as
surances to the contrary from Berlin,
was the view unanimously taken by
officials today.
In the first two weeks of the l-boat
war on armed merchantmen, inaugur
ated March 1 . the submarines pro
ceeded cautiously . apparently under
strict orders from Berlin. During the
past fortnight sinkings have avcr.iwd
from three to four ships a day Ad
miralty officials said today they have
positive proof that U-boat comman
ders have exercised no discrimlnatflMa
but have torpedoed without warning.
numerous unarmed ships, often in th i
darkness-
Sworn scatements concerning re
ported attacks on four vessels, aboard
which were Americans, are now on the
way to Washington. The British
steamer Eagle Point, reported torpe
doed without warning, entered the
German - American controve Tjfjf
through the fart that Joseph Oleesoft,
of Boston, was a member or her crew,
i The other ships were the Englishman,
Sussex and Manchester Engineer.
Sussex Dead Horribly Mangled.
The American embassy at Paris taw
day forwarded to Washington the
sworn statement of Captain Mouffett
of the cha nnel liner Sussex, that he
sa w a torpedo a pproaching w hile on
the bridge of the Sussex and tried un
successfully to maneuver his ship ont
of danger.
The torpedo. Captain Mouffett said,
I was about 200 y;.ri- off. H ot he not
swung his ship about, it wf.uld have
struck amidship, causing terrible lo
of life. Few lives would have been
lost, he said, if there had been no
panic
ENCOURAGES MILITIA
Youngstown Tube Company Will Pay
Fmplovees While Training.
Youngstown. March 30- Officials
preparedness plans by paying all em
ployees, who are members of the
guard, their regular wages when away
from work on guard duty or annual
training encampments.
The offer was made when Captain
Wade C. Christy, an official of the
i Ohio militia, who is an employee of
the company asked permission to re-
i cruit a new company of sixty-five men
: frorn the sheet and tube company em-
"J;0- Tne company management
I disclaims encouraging enlistments,
j merely to help in strike duty.
GOV DECREES MAY 25 AS
GOOD ROADS DAY IN PA.
Harrieburg. Pa., March 30.
Formal designation of Thursday,
May 25, as "Good Roads" day. was
made by a proclamation issued to
day by Governor Brumbaugh. This
is the second time that the people
the state have been called upon te
give the labor or material for the
betterment of the highways.
