' nn.MH)wiwiiqpffw
WW
inwiiu ilhw.iiiihi pu iiww)JuiMwiiuiii..iiijtf i, in' mwnppgptijpBg
FINANCIAL EDITION
V
NIGHT
EXTRA.
liaienmn
NIGHT
Vf
- .
?,."
j A-
1 cr
rxoi. ii.-no. i7o
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, MAEOII (JO, 11)10.
Corimoni, 1010, Bt ins Tubuo Lirati Commit.
PRICE ONE CENT
MAYOR EXPLORES SUBWAY EXCAVATIONS UNDER CITY PIALL WITH DIRECTOR TWINING
QUICK NEWS
I .,.,., ..UI.I.IP,
mtuntt
1
g
The Transit Director is pointing out to Mayor Smith, who is nccompanied by Finnnco Chairman GaiTney, the formation of the rock foundations deep under City Hall. The photo
graph was made by flashlight by an Evening Ledcek staff photographer.
GERMANS SUFFER
1HEAVY LOSSES AT
AyOCOURT WOOD
Attacks to Drive Them
iFrom New Positions Fail,
French Say
QUIET AT MALANCOURT
PARIS. Mnrcb SO.
Repeated counter-attacks, In which the
Germans suffered heavy losses, wero mndo
last night by the Kaiser's troops In Avo-
Icourt wood.
The official communique Issued by the
Iftench War Ouice today said that heaps
ot bodies wero loft on tho battlefield by
ilhe Teutons.
AH tho attacks- which were launched for
Ilhe purpose of driving tho French from
lUielr'newly captured position In tho south-
fMstern part of Avocourt wood, wero com-
pjete failures.
The War Ofllce said that the Gormans
did not renew tholr attack against Malan-
court, ,
East of the Miuso there was an Inter-
pnlttent bombardment.
FRENCH STATEMENT.
Following Is the text of tho communlnue:
South of the Somme, after a violent
bombardment, the Germans were able
to penetrate one at our advanced posb
tolns west ot Vermandovlllers. They
were thrown out, however, by our
counter-attacks.
German counter-attacks launched,
against our position in Avocourt wood
were 'repulsed.
In front of Avocourt rodoubt tho
nana reurea, icaun eii m
fcses on the Ground. ?
ast of the Meusdjjanrt In tho
levre thero was aift Intermittent
nbardment. The Germ .ns dropped
htlng mines in the rEer north of
Mlhlel. but they causafi no damage.
Bn Lorraine our artillery was active
Itween Domovre and Rremenll.
K..LI 1 . . .... 1 .l.n
if-ijfest of the front.
On March 23 one of our aerial bom
barding squadrons threw 15 shells of
! large calibre on the station at Metz
Bablons and live on the station at
Pagny-Sur-Moselle. On the night of
March 28 two of our aviators bom
barded the station at Malzleres-Le-Met.
Nearly nn entire armr division was
Swiped out by French machine guns and
jTiJs" when the Germans attacked the
petitions northwest of Verdun yesterday.
Continued on Van Two, Column One
Affttmnta CmiLIm liv fihnnfitif
Edward B. Fox, -16 years old, attempted
to end his Ufa tn.lav at his home at 135
Elm street, Salem, N, J., by shooting him-
ii near tne neart, accoruing io im inmin.
Ha was taken to Cooper Hospital, Cam-
i van, wnere ne is in critical conuiuu". x-u-Mlcians
said domestic and financial troubles
Ksea his attempt.
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelvhia and vicinitu
PtlYihl 1niiJti in.itnht nnl FtrillllTt :
Ui winds, mostly northeast. .
tor aeiatis see page -to.
LOST AND rOXTND
(EAIUlINO LoaL a. Marl and diamond r-
lips. Uarcb 0, la vicinity St Jamea' Ohurcti,
TTiauc ana .-a aia. . comiwui peri wwi.
la snlii pi... .iil.. with vmall dlimand at
top. ftwrd if returned to J. E. Caldwell
-fajtW Chf.tnut t
SOD- FOUNTAIN PORTKOLIO
IWward and no queatlona aaked if flnJr of
Wreet check oblalnln. U from Bd St.
button wilt rctura to th Wauld Carboolo
CV ata t. lad Jat a.va New Vof
BKAf- SKIN STOLE. Ti-owa l- Itnlnf lot.
WtT Thgalre Vediwadjjr ven U!;5
fc tUrl. reward offtrel Katitro to 19
HijU HulM-lfc I8i huul il
Oi- l.o,t ana k'vuoi Ad a Vl If
Photographic Analysis of
Dr. Arthur Warren Waitc
Always intent on making a fine
showing.
Likes to pose as popular hero
among, vpmen. , --; .
Ts n reckless" speculator.
Lacks a sense of responsibility.
Is impulsive and deficient in pru
dence. Takes long chances without re
flection. WOMAN EXPERT
SAYS WAITE HAS
SLAYER'S FACE
Dr. Blackford Analyzes
Characteristics Eevealed
by Photographs .
IS "MORALLY DEFICIENT"
Hidden traits of Dr. Arthur Warren
Wnlto, confessed poisoner of his mil
lionaire father-in-law and mother-in-law.
Were revealed today by Dr. Katherlno M.
II. Blackford, of Now York. Doctor Illack
ford Is noted as a student of human minds,
human history and human development.
The centrul figure in New York's most
weird rrfarder wants to shine as a good
sport, besides posing as a popular hero
amonff women. Ho Is also eager to be
come possessed of wealth. "When the
young dentist Is In a mood to speculato
In tho hopo of increasing ills fortune ho
becomes reckless.
These deductions were mfido by Doctor
niackford after making a careful analysis
of the dentist's photographs. Doctor
Dlackford for years has lectured on how
tho sharp-faced and flat-nosed man differ
In character. Sho has also studied tho
little man and tho llttlo woman, and tho
big as well as tho slender, tho athletic
and stout Individuals. She Is lecturing
here on character analysis, and Is stop
ping at tho Hotel Adelphla. Years ago
she originated the Dlackford employment
plan, from which big concerns select em
ployes well fitted for tho work, they are
to do, . . , ,
Doctor "tt'alte from a physical view
point Is of tho active, energetic, buoyant,
positive type, according to ")octor niack
ford He Is also quick and skilful In
movement, likes activity and Is capable
of great bursts of speed.
"Ills body," said Doctor Blackford,
'brain and nerves are line and sensitive.
He doe3 not, therefore, endure discom
fort hardship or privation wtih any de
gree' of patience and cheerfulness. He is
easily affected by his physical environ
ment, responds quickly to any physical,
stimulant, becomes ill suddenly, and re
covers speedily, once he becomes conva
lescent, ... , . V.
"Ihtellcctually, he is keen, alert, ob-
Contlnuei! on I'ao Two, Column Three
Rescue Worker Asphyxiated
John Taylor, 45 years old, who lived
and worked at the national headquarters
of the American Itescue Workers, at 2828
Frankford avenue, was found dead In a
small room on thojihlrd floor of the build
ing this morning, having been asphyxiated
by illuminating gas. An Investigation
made by the police disclosed the fact that
the man waa cleaning tho room yesterday
and he Is bellevd to have accidentally
brushed against the gas Jet, opening the
key Th body was found by John Duftln.
a son Qf General John Duitln, who Is In
charge o'f thefrescue work In this city.
Two Persons Die Jn JIOO.00O Fire
NORTH COLLINS. N. Y.r March J0-
Two persons were burned to death, la a
.i..iiu flru nhlcb. destroyed three, busi
ness houses hero today The dead, are
I Aldeu Potter. 69 years old, and hl wile.
($ years, old. The property Iqsj wa
1 fiQO.vOI).
VILLISTAS REACH
GUERRERO HAVEN
ELUDING PURSUIT
Outlaws Reported Fleeing
to Hills From Santo
Tomas
FIGHT EXPECTED SOON
Pancho Villa and a band of his
outlaws are somewhero in the Guer
rero Mountains, according to reports,
after having fled through tho historic
town of Santo Tomas, with American
forces in pursuit. Snnto Tomas is
halfway between Madera, General
Pershing's new base, and Chihuahua
City.
A message from General Pershing
says that a hand of Villistas was
seen 55 miles south of Cnsns Grandcs.
It is scarcely thought Villa himself
is with this band, so near tho border.
An aeroplane, piloted by Lieutenant
Gorrell, left Columbus today for the
front, resuming tho air dispatch serv
ice with Pershing's columns.
Supply trains were made ready in
El Paso" to bo sent forward at once to
tho expeditionary force following
General Carranza'a limited permis
sion to the United States to use tho
railways.
Secretary of War Baker authorized
purchase of eight $10,000 aeroplanes
for uso of the Mexican expedition.
An unconfirmed report says that
Continued on lac lite, Culuinn One
15,000 AT FUNERAL
OF BISHOP ORTYNSKY
Fourteen Masses Are Said for
Church Leader Impres
sive Ceremonies
t.
Twelve Mas,sq In addition to the
Requiem High Mass and tho Mass of the
Con-celebration were said today over the
body of Bishop Stephen Soter Ortynsky.
It lay in state In a bronze casket, sur
rounded by Moral tributes, the most con
spicuous of which Is one Ave feet high
from the President of the United States.
The services were held In the Cathedral of
St. Mary and the Immaculate Conception,
Franklin street above Brown street
More than 500 priests and 15.000 mem
bers of the Ituthenlan Oreek Church, of
whicit tilshop Ortynsky was the head, wero
mas&d In and about the building.
Thousands of lighted caudles were held
by hundreds of weeping women. Moio
thai) 300 societies wero represented at the
funeral.
After the services a funeral procession
wound through the streets of the neigh
borhood and returned to the church, where
the body was laid temporarily irV a crypt
underneath the altar.
Following the completion, of a J50.000
memorial chapel at the Ituthenlan Cem
etery. Lawndale, near Fox Chase, the body
of the Bbjbop will be laid to rest there.
The Mass of the Concelebratlon was
conducted today by the Very llev Alex
ander Diubay. the Very Uv. Valentine
Uorzo. the Very Rev Joseph Manull, th
Very Rev. Alexander UUeky and the Revs.
George Vegeze and John Krupsky
A sermon was preached In English by
Moniignor M J Lavell. vicar general of
New York, for the American Roman Cath
olic p'resent, and one was atsa preached
Cvntlautd ca l'l Six, tglumn Throe
MAYOK ANNOUNCES HE WILL
NAME TRANSIT COMMISSION
OF EXPERTS AND LAYMEN
Will Ask City Councils to Make New
Organization Possible as Means of
Solving Complex High-Speed
Problem
Former. Director of Transit Taylor said today:
"I have not had time .to digest .Mr. Twining's report and do not wish to
make any comment until 1 have carefully studied it. As soon as I have
studied it carefully I shall show the people of Philadelphia what the adoption
of the Twining plan would mean to them and what effect it would have upon
the future development of tho city."
Mayor Smith, following a long conference with Transit Director Twin
ing, announced this afternoon that ho intended to create a Transit Com
mission to act in an advisory capacity with tho city Administration and
with the Transit Department in workng out the solution of Philadelphia's
complex transit problem.
Tho commission, tho Mayor said, should be nonpolitical in character and
should be above question in personnel. It should consist of men of such
repute as John G. Johnson and Rodman Wanamaker, he said, in addition
to thoso who should represent tho city on tho commission. These should be,
tho Mayor said, himself, the Transit Director and the presidents of Common
and Select Councils and engineers of unquestionable ability.
MAYOR CERTAIN
OF "NO STATION
AT CITY HALL"
One Look at the Cracks in
Foundations of Building
Decides Him
BRIEF INSPECTION TOUR
Mayor Smith put the touch of finality
to his decision about what he considers
tho Impracticability of putting a subway
station under City Hall today after a vlbit
to subterranean passages under the north
west tower of the building today. He was
accompanied by Director Twining, Chief
McLoughlln, of the Electrical Bureau,. and
representatives of the Keystone Construc
tion Company, the contracting tirm of
Senator James r. McNichol.
They saw that shafts had been sunk 40
feet and that the general excaatlon work
had proceeded less than 20 feet. They
uncovered several holes In tho old founda
tions, which are made of mortar and
rubble.
"Let's go and look at those awful foun
dations." said the Mayor, as he went down
the ladder.
Not only had this plan been approved
by the experts from other cities, but by
the Public Service Commission and by
the experts for tho McNichol company
which has tho contract But It did not
take the visitors long to see the flaws.
The Mayor was greatly impressed by the
sight of large granite blocks cracked in
palf, and pointed to them. Thero were
not many of them, though.
Director Twining said there was
no serious cracking of the walls as yet.
but that be would be fearful of going
deeper here. Under City Hall there la a
bed of gravel.
The Mayor said that he had been aware,
of the danger and had ordered work stop
ped on February 24.
"This convinces me that any statioa
under City Hall Is Impractical," he, said.
AN OI'K.V QUESTION.
Tho announcement by tho Mayor of his
Intention to crento tho Transit Commission
was taken ns direct proof that tho Mayor
and the Administration leaders will make
no direct effort to light tho wave of public
protest which has met tho Twining plans.
Prior to the announcement of tho plans
tho Mayor said that they had not been
gten any official Kinrtion, and the ap
pointment of the commission, transit oh
servers bellevo, Is proof that tho cntlro
transit problem Is still nn open question.
Director Twining was with the Mayor
when he announced his intention of ap
pointing the transit commission and al
though the Transit Director made no
comment, It was clear that tho Idea mot
with his full indorsement," Tho Mayor, In
making public his plan, said:
"I think that we should have a transit
commission to net In an advisory capacity
together with Director Twining. This tre
mendous project Is too Important to bo
handled by one man. I mean to act with
Councils In forming such u. commission.
It should consist of men entirely separate
from the Rapid Transit Company and pol.
Hies. They should consider the Important
contracts that will have to be entered Into.
"Such a commission should Include my.
self. Director Twining, Presidents Lenuon
and Cijeason. of Councils; engineers p( un
doubted ability and honesty and of un
unquestioned standing Take for Instance,
Hodman Wanamaker, or John !. Johnt.011.
I have not asked either of the men to
terve, but merely use their names to Illus
trate the character of tho men I believe
iJiould work with. Twining.
"The commission shoulcf be above
crjtlclsiii, should liod public or private
meetings as would seem best tq discuss
all the phases of transit arising out of
the present plans. This would make
certain a clean contract. I mean by that
that there are always doubting Thomases,
and that such u commission, acting with
Director Twining, would put a stop to
their carping before it is well started,
"I have not determined wheu I will
take thli matter up Anally, but It Is my
best judgment that a transit commission
to act In an advisory capacity Is abso
lutely necessary
The Mayor was then asked If he bad
given any consideration to the local tax
proposal and the Increased fare phase of
Director Twining's report The Mayor re
plied that be had not yet studied, them
and bad no comment to nuke.
Vigorous protests against the proposal
of Director Twtmug to tax outlying sec-
CeaUaued so face Xenr Colenta tx&
READING MAKES COUNTER-PROPOSALS TO TRAINMEN
Chailcs II. Ewlng, general malinger of the Philadelphia and
Heading Railway today duplicated the notion of the Pennsylvania
Ralhoad and 4G0 other rnilionds thioughout the countiy by mnklng
comiter-pioposnls to the demands of 300,000 tininmen for the eight
hour day and time-and-a-half pay for oveitlme woik. The mntter will
b arbitrated,
ANOTHER BRITISH STEAMSHIP LOST
LONDON, March 00. The Biitish Btcamship Diadem, 0753 tons,
has been sunk by n mine or submniiuc. She wns owned in Newcastle.
POLICE ORDER STORES CLOSED ON SUNDAYS
Numerous complaints that Market street Btorcs were keeping opon for bus
iness on Sundays resulted in nn order from police headquarters today that all
stores, exrppt thoso dealing In the necessities of life, shall remain closed all day
Sunday. Although It was not included In the order, It Is understood that offenders
will be arrested. Stores that deal In milk, bread, meat and other edibles may bo
opened before 9 n. in. and after f p. in. Drug stores, of course, nro exempt from
the order.
22,000 SERBIAN REFUGEES DIE ON MARCH TO SALQNICA
GENEVA, March 30. Twenty-two thousand Serbian refilgecs died on tho
march to Snlonlcn, following tho Invasion of Serbia by Austro-Qorman and Bul
garian armies, according to a report received today by Mlle.'Comtc, of Genova,
representative of the Swiss Red Cross nt Snlonlcn.
NO RUSSIAN ATTACKS SOUTH OF NAROCZ LAKE
i HKItLIN, Mnrcb 30 "South of Nnrocz Lako tho Russians did not repeat
their attacks," today's ntllclnl statement snys. "In this sector and west of Ja
kobstadt, as well ns north of Wldsy, the artillery was very active. In tho sector
of Postavy quiet prevailed."
RED RIBBONS OF LEGION GIVEN ITALIAN STATESMEN
PARIS, March 30. President Polncaro today decorated Premier Snlandra and
Foreign Minister Sonnlno, of Italy, with the Grand Cross of tho Legion of Honor.
General DaH'Ollo, Minister of Munitions In the Italian Cabinet, was made a Grand
oillcer of tho Legion. Tho Italian Ministers came to Paris for the Allies' war
conference. The presentation of their decoration was marked by a brilliant coro
mony at tho Elyseo Palnco.
SENATE ORDERS GASOLINE PROBE
WASIIINTON, March 30. The Sena'o adopted without dissent today a reso
lution Introduced by Senator Mnrtlnc, of New Jersey, calling on tho Attorney
General to Investigate whether tho sensational rise In gasoline prices la duo to
any unlawful combination. At the bnmo tlmo an open Congressional Investiga
tion of the subject wus announced by Chairman Van Dyke of a subcommittee of
the House Mines Committee. The House Inquiry Krows out of Representative
j Randall's bill for Kovernment ownership
-.RAILWAYS-WIN RESPITE IN DISSOLUTION ORDER
WASHINGTON. SInrch 30. Tho Interstate Commcrco Commission today
suspended Indefinitely, ponding further Inquiry, its order requiring: a severance
of relations between in."road companies and tho ChesapeaTto Bay steamship
lines which they operate.
AUSTRIAN AIRMEN SHELL FIVE ITALIAN -TOWNS
HOMK. Mnrch 30. Five towns in northern Italy have been bombarded by
two Austrian airmen. Tho towns nttneked are CcrvlKnano, San Giorgio di No
garo, I'alazzuolo, I'ordcnono nnd St. UogBenlno. A bridge on tho Plavo wus also
bombarded. Tho War OIHce announced that insignificant damago was done.
AMERICANS IN LONDON PROTEST AGAINST U-BOAT ACTS
LONDON. Mnrch 30. Taking for granted that a German submarine dam
aged tho Channel liner Sussex, the American residents of London at a mass
mcotlng today ndopted a resolution protesting ngnlrtst the attack, A copy
of tho resolution wns sent to President "Wilson.
DUBAIL NAMED MILITARY GOVERNOR OF PARIS
PAUIS, March 30. General Duball today was appointed Military Governor
of Paris and commander of tho nimy protecting the capital, succeeding General
Maunory, who ictircs nt his own leque-jt, owing to III health. Duball formerly
commanded a division In eastern France. Maunory has been called one of the
"saviors of Paris" becauso of his brilliant moves during General von Kluck'a
drive upon tho city. Ho was shot In the eyo In tho battle of Solssons,
FIX MAY 25 AS STATE'S GOOD ROADS DAY
HAnRISBURG, March 30. Governor Brumbaugh today lssuod a proclama
tion fixing Thursday, May 25, ns "State-wide Good Roads Day." Tho Governor
calls on all citizens to plan their personal duties so they can devqte that day
to the Improvement of tho highways. Ho calls on all those who cannot be present
to contribute either monoy or material to the proper local authorities.
BRITAIN TO DEFEND BLOCKADE PRINCIPLE
LONDON, March 30. No time as yet has been fixed for the dispatch of the
reply to tho American nolo concerning restrictions Imposed by Great Britain
on maritime commerce. It is expected the State Department at Washington will
soon make nn Inquiry concerning the reasons for the delay. After being changed
In accordance with tho desires of Franco, the British draft of the reply was again
submitted to the French Cabinet and did not prove wholly satisfactory. It U
known that no concession leading to a declaration of an actual blockade Is made
Jn the note, which reiterates tho principles Bet forth In Orders In Council and
defends their application. In regurd to he actual administration ot these orders,
however, some moderations are granted. There concessionaire believed to be
tho result of suggestions made by France.
TURKS TURN ON FOE, BUT MEET DEFEAT
PETROGRAD, March 30. "In the Caucasus, on the coast sector," says an
official bulletin last night, "our detachments which had occupied the heights on
the left bank of the River Oghen Dereh (20 miles, east of Treblzoud) sustained
(luring Monday night a series of desperate enemy counter-attacks. All of them
wero repulsed, and the Turks, having suffered terrible losses, beat a retreat, leav
ins behind prisoners and a gun. We also took prisoners In the direction of Erzln
jlan (105 miles west of Erzerum)."
GERMANS ARREST MERCIER'S SECRETARY
BERLIN, March 30. M. Loncln, private secretary tq Cardinal Mercler, the
Belgian Primate, has been arrested, according to a dispatch front Brussels, given
out today by the Overseas News Agency. "An investigation was begun some time
ago of M. Loncln," says thb News Ag,ency. "He was suspected of maintaining
forbidden Intercourse with tho enemy. A Bearch of his home proved that he had
Intimate relations with an organization that secretly carried letters between Bel
glum, and thd, enemy's front."
FRENCH CRTISER TAKES BRITON FROM SHIP
BAN JUAN, Port Rico, March 30. The steamship Rio de Janeiro, bound, from
Rio de Janeiro for New York, was stopped by the French cruiser Descartes, 100
miles from San Juan, lost Saturday. A supposed. Englishman on board, traveling
as A, Gibson, was taken prisoner. Gibson embarked at Para for Porto, Bieo,
Captain Miranda, of the Rio de Janeiro, said the French officer asked far
Gibson and demanded his papers. "When Gibson refused to give then up ba
vas arrested.
BALDWINS GET1 ORDERS FOR 50 LOCOBIOTIVES
Baldwin Locomotive "Works ha.s received orders for 80 locomotives. 36 ta bit
built for the Pennsylvania Railroad and ?5 for the Great Northern Railway. The.
Pennsylvania Railroad has also ordered 25 locomotives from the) Lfeua Lot-ensstii
I yfrim. It &bo expects to order 20,004
nncl operation of oil Melds.
frekjot cars in the near future.
$ A3
