Try T-D Want Ads
Wonderful Little Business
Getters?Randolph I
vom.'mi: uu
m .miw:h sf?
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY
That Vacant House
Let The Times-Dispatch Find
You a Tenant?Now
MARCH 30, 1916.?FOURTEEN PAGES.
.V??Er"BR ?CLOUDY
PRICE. 2 CENTS
SUPPLIES
SUBMARINE CRISIS
WITH BERLIN AGAIN
AT CRITICAL POINT
Situation Admittedly One
of Gravest Since Begin
ning of War.
JNIMPEACHABLE ARRAY
OF FACTS BEING SOUGHT
Ml Recent Incidents to Be Com
bined Into Ont General For
midable Indictment.
rsSt'K TO HK CliKAU <'CT
Suggestion of fiecrct Instructions to
I'-lloat Commanders Given
Some Credence.
WASHING TON. March 2? Th? ac
?>, mulatlon of circumstantial evidence
n.lic.'itlnp th:it Germany has entfape'l
spots si vami'iiimi of submarine warfare
chich has no regard for the right* of
\merlcan citizens Mavelintr on mer
hant ships of belliB? rout nationality,
he administra?ion considers. lias cre
itcd niii> of th?s most serious situations
* liiis ? mifrot? tthe t'nitcd "Mutes
?tine* the brctritiinjt of the war In Ivi
mtic
Kvr> Hstcnt > open to tin Stat* I":
iiarlmeat to-ni?ht was being employed
ir an effort t'? gather an unimpeacn
ibie array of facts regarding the ex
plosion. which <lamaKe<l the ltritifdi
Channel steamer Sussex, the sinliiim
of the British ships .Manchwltr ISngi
nrn, Knglishtnati. Maple I'nint and th*
I Mitch steamer Tubantla, and the al
leged firing of a torpedo at the French
passenger ship I'atrls. All <>' t lit'n'-'
ships carried American* and all were
apparently attacked In violation of
Germany's recntlv renewed issuran ?
t.i the 1'nlted States
T he n'Xt step <>' the l.'t ;ted States
i? -aid authoritatively to liav. been de
termined upon. I idets Germany In
repl\ to the Inquiries made h< the
I lilted States through Ainlia^siuior
Gerard. makes some statement to cause
the State Department to change ita
pit-sent intentions. It is understood that
all the recent agg ra vat ing incidents
w 111 l?e combined into one general
formidable Indictment which v ill bring
the entire subject to a vicar cut l^sue
<ji i> i iov in \ vi.t n
OK t.K.ltll \ > \ *S PltOMISi:
*?h?uld ? brmniiv admit responsibility
t ?r .tnj i>f the attacks and attempt to
y.-.tl>f> Mie United States by saying
that i mistake n.?<i In en ?nad< offer to
make reparation |?11 n 1 s h the
submarine ??..mm;.;??1 ? ? ?, the iss ie would
11ot by ant means' ' <? disposed of. It
? ? regt\riled a> ? erratr that the I'nited
States would not ; 'pt such an ex
planation as satisf i 'to: y. at least until
time had shown what punishment ac
tually \?.is n.-t o i.in t.. the offending
submarine commander, and whether
any value longer < ould l>e attached to
Germany's promise.
In the ??vent of liei'mmn disclaiming
responsibility fot the disasters, the
t.'nited States will proceed with its in
! \ estimations to determine to its own
satisfaction whether the evidence which
now strongly Indicates that the Sussex
and other ships were torpedoed with
'?uf warning can be regarded as con
elusive proof. With such proof before
it, the povornmetit probably would act
promptly, officials refrained from dis
cussing what the nature of the action
would be.
The verj number i>t" apparently un
warranted, attacks ;ji?? ? i reccntiv have
occurred is regarded by the admiirstrn
tion as particularly significant. and is
said to have disposed of the theory that
the explosions might lave been caused
by mines. Some of the cases, it was
pointed out. have occurred in locali
ties where there is no possibility of
mine fields having been laid, because
of the depth of the water and the dis
tance from shore.
it became known during the day
that the State Department had heard
unofficially the suggestion that German
(Continued on Second PmkcT)
? HOME
Buy-right Hints for
the Thirty Housewife
All folks are not fortunately
possessed of an imbred sense or
trait of economy.
The virtue, when inherent,
however, does not always argue
its possessor practices* this
qualification as a matter of
necessity, rather than as a
matter of choice. Some of the
richest people in every com
munity are the greatest, econ
omists; not through the stress
of necessity, but through an in
herent trait; a very good rea
son in many cases, no doubt,
why they are rich, why they
have accumulated while others
have not.
XtlTR??Y'lic Tlnirs-OlMpnlelt guiiruitti
mode In Klcluiionri store* Ihut inlvertl
U.S.Business Men
Beat Government
Sent Fooaslujfs Occr Railroad to
Casas Grandes Two
lVccl(s Ago.
101 j PASO. TK.V. March 23.? Amer
ican business iinii have beaten the
American government in the attempt
t<> pot supplies to "iener.il Pershing's
expeditionary forie- at ?< It amies
liy way of tlie .Norihwestern Hallway,
it developed here to-night.
Majur-Ofncral William Klltott. in
eliiii ge of the l"iiit?'<t States i.ptarter
uiaster Department. said that t v. o
weeks ago sin Ann rlcan came ? ? i? from
? "asas Ctandes and snc ? ? i-?i?- l ;i? cel
ling two ears of foodstuffs ami ither
"?applies dispatched t. ? iti.it ;m_>m " I"
is said he reaped a harvest !????:? use of
hi* foresight.
Three loaded fr? ight ears consigned
to ?'.tsas 'iramles \v>*nt over th< river
to-day dispatehed l.y .1 local wholesale
llrni
J AW IS MADE FOR MAN
Artlflelnl f.lmli Mnnufiieturer 'It'll* of
Heninrknlile Oprrnllim lit* >im In
I'rn lire.
[Special to The Times-Dispatch.)
NKW VOKK. March 20.?Stanley
Huhert. representing a New Vork
artificial limb manufactut <*r, came home
to-day to rest, aftei several months
making wooden leys for French ?r.l
diers nt the rate of fifty legs a week.
Il>. ,11 rive?| aboard the Krench lln\r
llocharnlje.it] 'if :^n- surgical opera
tion* lie saw in the hospitals, he paid
that f h" most remarkable was Die
man 11 factu 1 e of a Jaw for n rnnti whose
natural one had >>< en ?hot away A
section of bone was t;:k< n front a sh'it
tered leg. he said, and a Jaw ntade of
|it that was an improvement on the
original, stiv.. that it had r.o teeth. **? rj
false ones had to be Inserted
M'GRATH GRANTED STAY
Veiiirin'r of ? nliinrl ltno>?c\rl l'? Prl\atc
Srcrcliirj In W orklioiur Ilcltl I p
Pending 1'. \ 111111 mi 11011 of Trktliiiuni'.
NKW Y?)ltK. Mar.-h 2?. ? A 'stay of
jsentence was to-day granted to John
U Mctirnth. Theodore Roosevelt's
secretary ami latel> acting secretary
of the Progressl v.- National Committee,
who was committed yesterday to the
workhoui-. for thirty days o.n a charge
of disorderly conduct and assault The
complainant was Charles I.ighte, Jr.,
'of l!rookl>ti who charged that Me
'irath and William Powers assaulted
him in a restaurant in Hrooklyu last
.1 u lie.
? "olonel lioos.n.-11 issued a statement
e\pressing indignation at the sentence,
and assert inn thai Mctirnth would
continue to remain in his service.
The sentence was stayed pending an
I-\a mi nat ion of testimony
BOWERY TO KEEP ITS NAME
.\ew \ iirl> llonril of \ldernien Decide*
I iiiiiiIiiioiinI> Against
Chiinge.
NKW VOIJK, March The Itowery
will keep its famous old name for r
time at least, not withstanding efforts
'of business men. who think their trade
is. hindered by the reputation of the
street. The Hoard of Aldermen de
cided unanimously against changing
, the name. The merchants did not sug
gest any other nanus us a substitute.
MRS. CARNEGIE'S WILL FILED
M10 l.cnvrn Kntntc of Prom S IU,(llHi,iMiO
(o 51.~>,4>Otl.?NMI 10 Five
\ Children.
PITTSIU K"iH, PA.. March 2!?.- The
will of Mrs l.uej Carnegie, sister-in
j law of Andrew Carnegie, ami one of
the richest women in Pittsburgh, filed
here for prohate to-day. gives an estate
of from $i?,noo,o?o to j 1 r.,oo<uiof> to ti\e
children.
HARDY TAKES OATH
Nnrlulk Honker lo Hroomr I'erirrnl |{r.
*rr%?* Agent ti< Itlrliniond
on \ |>r11 I.
WASHINGTON, March -Caldwell
Hardy. of Norfolk, Va.. new Federal
reserve agent at Uichmontl, to-day
took the oath of ofliee here. Ho will
I begin Ins duties on April 1,
Economy Not Inherent
It is a Cultivated Trait
However, economy is a char
acteristic thai ran ho cultivat
ed.
The best, field for its cultiva
tion are the ADVERTISING
page's of The. Times-Dispatch.
He/e you will see daily, the op
portunities for practicing econ
omy.
The merchants in many
lines advertise their lowest
prices in The Times-Dispatch.
Make a practice of reading
their ads, gentle Housewife,
and learn the truths of econ
omy they teach.
pom it marked ?uivlnR on over) imrelianc
we tlielr loueM prieew In tliC-MO pfljccft.
Three of New York Central's;
Crack Flyers in Wreck
Near Cleveland.
MORE THAN FORTY INJURED
Federal. State and Railroad Of
ficials Immediately Begin
Investigation.
< i.i:vi:i,ani?. o. March yj. -with a
toll '>f at least t ii irt > persons dead aii'l
forty or more injured. Federal. Stat?b
:i11?I railroad officials to-da\ li'-Kan an
invostiuation Into tin; I'ltun' that this
tn<M'!)!iiu carlv II iiffo tit'- 1110.-.1 dis
astrous wi'i'i'l; in the history of the
New York Central Itailroad
Thre? trains. Including the Twen
tieth Century Limited. westbound, th(
n*?? v.* York's palatial flyer, and two sec
tlons of No. SO. known as Mm* <*hi<*;iKO
I'ittshurgh l.iinlted, easthound. cam'
toy? 11?r in collision near Amherst. O.
t!iirt,\ miles west of Cleveland.
lleports> generally credited were that
th* first and second se< lions -if No. S*j
proceeding at a rapid rate, ami
at some points were only a mil? or so
apart. \Vh<?n 'In1 second section
crashed into the fi??-t scction. the? Ttiin
tieth ?'rntury Limited piled into the
wreckage of the two trains, which
bulged o\>r on two tracks, and th*
t hree were throw n into an indescrib
able mass.
Th<- K!'1' --Oa< ne; ami engine and No.
s?; wcri' toppled over and wreckage
was piled thirty feet in tho air. Two
cai - wore smashed t<> junk. Kourteen
? oa< lies overturned
Mt.HT t?< fi\K ALMOST
or I VKt III.ACK XKSJi
The Twentieth Century, notwith
standing its impact with the debris
from tin- other trains, emerged almost
unscathed, and proceeded on its west
ward journey, its passengers utiin
jtited. except for a severe shaking up.
A pall of tog from I.ake Krie had
settled down over Northern Ohio, ami
the night was of almost inky black
ness. This, with the alleged failure
of a towerman to do his duty under th<
rules, was ? ascribed by some of the
railroad officials as the cause of ilu
wreck. The towerman. u was said
had been without sleep most of the
time since .Sunday, his wife being ill,
and requiring his attention when he
was not on duty.
A Idock signal set suddenly against
a speeding train, and another train fol
lowing closely in tin- "Hast" block is
believed to lie at the leal c a viae of
the wreck.
\Y M. Schiff, superintendent of the
road, said:
"The towetinan can have nothing to
do with the cause of this wreck Tht
explanation lies between the engineers
and the block signal system.
"We tested out the block sv_stein
j signal tins morning after the wreck
and found it working perfectly. After
. the wreck. Kngineer Jless and his
i brakeman, C. A. M. Cates. with a brake
j man of the Twentieth Century Limited.
? walked back t" the signal which Mess
j (engineer of the second section> iir<>\'.'
j by. They all sa> they found tho signal
i was red. or blocked then."
M KVKS OK t'OXKl.SKtV
KOI.I.4IW i: \T \S l KOI'IIK
.Scenes of terrible confusion followed
the catastrophe Many of the injured
pinioned in the \\ rerluiKC called plte
ously for hel|>. I'uiujured passengers,
half-clad. emerged from the sleepers
;uhI joined with trainmen and others
in (he rescue work. A fire in the
wreckage brought the first rays of
linlit on the scene of desolation ami
death Firemen from Amherst soon
quenched the flames The tire was in
?|U> itched the llaines. The tire was in
one coach on train No. x'-' iSeneral
Manager Moon in an ollicinl statement
said this coach was a "modem, steel
<-oach car." 1'asscngers and others
who were on the scene to-da> did not
all agree as to the correctness of litis
statement, nuttn of them contending
the coach was of wooden const ruction.
Those who disputed the assertion that
the coaches were all of solid steel
pointed tn the fact that "death coach."
as they termed it. was torn into small
fragments which burned like tinder.
The wreck occurred shortly after 3 A.
M? but it wns nearly 1 o'clock before
organized relief work was established
I To-day's wreck served to recall mem
ories of the wreck of the Twentieth
Century Limited on June 21. 1 fi01. at
Mentor. about twenty miles east
j of Cleveland, when nineteen persons
lost their lives. The Twentieth Cen
j ttiry was making its second run un ler
(the new fast-time schedule. A maniac.
' iI was asserted by railroad ollieials,
{turned a switch that wrecked it.
J Hospitals in Loraine and lClvria to
slight were filled with injured from
[the wreck, and it generally was be
, lieved the death list as given oi.'. to
; day would be Increased.
! Hospital trains were run from Clcve
j land, ttlyrin and T.oraine to the scene
i of the wreck. Hundreds of villagers
from Amherst and near-by did heroic
' work in carving for the dead, dving
and wounded. A little morgue at Atn
! herst was <iuickly tilled, but other
i buildings were made available. Many
I of the dead were mangled beyond rec
ognition. some of them so far that
i Identification may never be established.
| STATKMK.Vr ISS1 Kl>
l?V IIAWlt.KIt
<iener.il Manager Moon's stoteine.nt,
I issued this afternoon, read:
| "About 3:2(1 this morning first No.
; Nil, the Chicago-Pittsburgh passenger
: train, was stopped at the interlocking
I ? (Continued on Second Pag<\)
Win Footing in Advanced Works
and Occupy Two Houses
in Village.
FRENCH FIRE HALTS EFFORTS
Bombardment From Avocourt to
Bethincourt Continues With
Violence.
The Germans to the northwest of
i Verdun, iii it>? infantry attack launched
with hui^V effectives. have gained ad
.litmnal Krouml against the French
? north of Malanconrt. and have even
IMiivtrated the north west corner <-f the
; village.
i Attempts of tii'1 Teutons to carry
their advance farther, hov -ver. were
stopped by the French ft as also
I were three counterattacks against %ee
positions in the Avocourt wooii south
.of Malancourt. which hail pirfviously
'been taketi from, them by a French
intantry at'.ack. The German offi rial
| communication says that the advance
r the Germans north of Malancourt
as over a front of more than a mile.
Aside from the infantry attacks and
junterattacks in this region. a he.'.vy
I bombardment has been in progress
i from Avocourt. northward of Bethin
I court, a distance of five miles' Tl-er?
I also ha.. been a confusion of sporadic
I attacks to the north and cast of Ver-,
J dun. while in the Vosges mountain*
| the French batteries have been kecp
j ing up their usual bombardment .?f
! German organizations.
Ill mininer operations in the Argonnei
the French have Mown up Herman
! posts, and between the Oise and tho
lAlsne have dispersed German convoys
i with their cruns. The Germans claim
' thnt in a hand-grenade encounter they
I recaptured from the British a ni'i.e
[crater at .St. Elol. The British declare
'that they have consolidated all the
i ground gained on March 27.
Although a thaw has set in on 'he
i Russian front and the rivers -it*
' flooded and the lowlands turned into
[morasses, hard fighting between ?
j Germans and Russians continues from
{the Dvinsk recion southward. Nej>r>
J l^itkc Xaroez the Germans' Tiave been
(driven out of a wooded sector anil the
counterattacks repulsed by tiie Bus-.
! sian fire. German positions have b -en
j taken bv the Russians in the Ojin?k
("anal rcpion.
' \TT.\ri\ nt (ii:iiiia\.?
WITH IfKAVl KIIIK l>
I PARTS. March 'JD. ? In an attack with
i heavy forces against the village of
! Malancourt to-day. the Germans suc
| reeded in gaining a footing in an ad
? vancerf work north of Malancourt and
occupying two houses in the village,
I according to the official statement
j issued l>y the War Office to-night,
t Further attempts to advance was
j checked by the fire. The official report
sa > s:
y
"Between tiie Oise and tiie Aisne our
artillery has dispersed important con
voys northeast of Moulin-sous-Touvent.
"In the Argonne we exploded a mine
! north of Four-de-l'aris. The explosion
| destroyed a grenadier's post and slul
, ter and wrecked the German works.
"Our heavy artillery on several .?c
ensions shelled the Malancourt *ind
Avocourt woods, while counterattacks;
v ere tiring enrried out by the Germans!
>>n i he neighboring sector. West of
the Meiise the bombardment from A\o-j
eourt in Bethiwcfiurt continued wichj
violence during the day. Three suc
cessive counterattacks by the Germans
on the positions in the Avocourt woods
carried by us ibis morning were cotn-j
plelelj repulsed." In the course of an!
attack with heavy forces directed;
against the village of Malancourt the
Germans were able to gain a footing
in advanced works north of Malancourt1
and to occupy two houses in the vil-]
lage. All their efforts to push fnrtner'
were stopped by our lire.
"Vrtillery skirmishes took place east!
of the Meuse anil in Woevre as far as
Kparges.
; "In the Vosges we boinbaroeii tho'
.Herman positions at Stosswihr anil:
Minister.
i '
! (.KH A MANS It KM I' >110 OFI-T.N M \ I I
with iti:i>ot III.I-:i> i:\i:it<;Vi
! I
I'ABIS, March ? After a six days' j
; lull, the Germans resumed the often-j
jsive at Verdun yesterday with re-,
doubled energy. To hide their plans, j
they had been shelling the whole Verdun j
front impartially for a week, but the I
French staff expected an attack from!
the west of the river, and had made all
preparations. Their surmise was justi-i
tied. i
I The German effort was confined to a|
section, hardly more than half a mile;
in widths between Avocourt and Malan- j
? court, the artillery poureil a hall of'
' shells on tl is short line all morning in
; preparation for the infantry attack.,
I launched at .'I o'clock in the. afternoon.',
The attacking mass, about a division'
.strong, dashed over the ground plowed
| up by the shells, apparently .expecting!
!an easy victory. They reckoned, how-'
lever, without the French infantry and!
i the French light artillery, skillfully'
(sheltered from the bombardment
The French Infantry held off the Ccr-'
mans with rifle and machine-gun lire!
(While the seventy-fives' threw a ciir
i tain of shells, which prevented reserves'
| from approaching. Again the gray-}
!coated waves surged forward, only lot
| be broken against the stout resistance
j of the defenders. The object of the
Germans was to force the French to I
.evacuate the village of .Malancourt, thej
j (Continued on JSoeond i'age.) |
rAITAl> HU'IIJIOM) HMITH,
of the Sixth Infantry, Company II. in command at Horn Grande, giving order
to sergeant of the guard.
Virginia Republicans
Send Their Delegates
With No Instructions
Organization Slate 'Is Un
broken in Roanoke Con
cention--Sentiment for
Roosevelt Stifled.
HmANmKI:. V.V, MiiitIi Vir
ginia's delegates-at - lar?f?- it Hi*' H? ?
publican National Convention. go to
Chicago uninst I'lirtfil, the State colt
vculiou to-night carrying through tin-;
organization slate without change
There wen: erics of "Hughes" ami
"Uoosevelt" aiming the 1.50V delegates, (
lull nn suggestion was made in the
convention that the deb gates he in-,
structed for any prospective pi csiilcil
lial candidate.
Friends of H. A. Mavis, State Senator!
from Franklin County, attempted in
vain to break the slate l?> proposing j
him for a delegate.
The convention selected State Chair-!
man Sleinp and National Committee-'
man Martin for delegates t? \ aeelama-I
tion. It then proceeded to ballot on i
the three remaining candidates, two to |
be chosen. Joseph Crupper, of Alex
andria. Ya.. and It. A. Fulvviler. of j
I Staunton, were successful.
Ml Ft IITIIKIl SlfiNS OK
INSt Ht;i:\T (ll'I'PMTIIIX J
Aside from this contest the conven*!
tlon ? developed no simi of "insurgent I
opposit ion."
The vote resulted as follow Crup
per, 0-'!; Fulvviler. i7!t, Ha vis.
Alternates-at-large were named as'
follows: \V N. Doak Hoanoke; .lolin j
I*. Kiinlierlj. (ild I'oiut. A. 10. Parsons, j
CS ray son County, and \V S. Pongue, i
Wythe County, Hubert ?? I'rocketl, of i
Tazewell. and Itobert I NValkor, of!
Shenandoah, were selected as eh ctors
at-large.
Members of tho State committee
were named as follows: .t. r?. Mitia
v ouk, Wythe: l>. I., .larner. Norfolk; W.
I.ce Itrand. Salem; John Thompson,
Richmond, and ? S Hninncr, Rock
ingham.
Much enthusiasm was aroused among I
the delegates by a speech by IJepre- 1
sentativ#j Humphrey, of Washington,'
when he predicted the overthrow of the!
Wilson administration. Mr. liumphreyj
also made an urgent plea for pre-j
pa red n ens.
Organization leaders declared the!
meeting was the most representative'
Republican gathering ever held in I his)
State.
ItOOSKVI-M.T m:\ti Ml !\T
I* Ql ICKI.V HTIIM.IOIi:
Roosevelt sentiment came to the stir- 1
face in t lie .^meeting of the resolutions;
committee, only to he promptly stifled.:
William C. I'enilletoii, of the Ninth!
District, chairman of the committee,
proposed a resolution coin mending the!
course of Colonel Iloosevel' in de-j
nouncing the foreign policies of ihej
Wilson ailniinistration. but it was!
tabled without a vote in its favor, j
other committeemen explaining *hati
they opposed singling oul anv .vie
prospective presidential candidate for
any measure of Indorsement. i
A delegation of suffragists, headed j
by Mrs. John II. I?ewis, * ice-president
of the StateN organization, appeared
before thi' resolutions committee to
urge instruction of I lie Chicago dele
Males to vole for inclusion of the Siisnn
15. Anthony amendment to the Consti
tution in the national platform. After
extended discussion, the committuu de
cided merely to indorse woman suf
frage and to favor tlie enactment of
all necessary laws to hring it about.
IN OOHSKMKVI' OK IIKIIOi nAT
l'l)l( MONATOIt IS COIlKt'AST
? 'oalitlon with independent Demo
i-tais in the nomination of a candidate
for tin* Senate to succeed Senator
Swanson was forecast by the action of
11 > ?? eon vent ion in defe.rrin^ the naming
of a senatorial candidate and leaving:
the matter in the hands of the State
committee.
Mepublicuti leaders indicated that
they would throw th?-ir support to a
stroii-.';, independent Democrat, men
tioning: the name of Marry St. Ceorgo
! Tin ker as such a man
The resolutions denounce the Wilson
administration and call its foreign
policies "weak and vacillating." They
favor "a strict and real neutrality to
ward all th* warring nations, but a
Arm am) resolute maintenance of Amer
ican right!* at all times."
A)n the subject of preparedness the
resolutions favor "all adequate prepa
ration for defense both with the army
and navy.'" Woman suffrage is. in
dorsed in the following language:
"We favor suffrage being extended1
to women, and. therefore, favor the j
enactment of all laws necessary to the i
accomplishment of this end."
DU PONTS MAKE OFFER
? . - ,
Willing to Itntiil I'lnnt to 'I'nUr \ltrlc i
Aelil Krom Air :utd MiiUr Product* ,
A\nlliitilr lo tiiivornnii'iH. i
I
WASHINGTON. March !!tl.?Counsel j
for the !?;. I. dul'ont l>e Nemours &- Co..
informed Secretary Maker to-day that j
the company stood ready to build n :
hydro-electric plant for taking nitric j
acid from the air, and to make its I
products available to the government j
for the manufacture of explotiives atj
prices tixed by the Secretary of War, if;
Congress would change existing water-1
power lai\s. so as to make sych a pro-j
ject practicable.
Mr. Maker was yiven a letter from
I'ierre S. du I'ont. president of the com
pany, attaching a proposed bill to pro
vide for lifty-yenr leases on water
power sites in navigable streams. It
was explained that the company con
templated constructing a plant cost
ing $2(i.ao(i,0aft or more, and composed j
of furnishing all the nitrates now im
ported from Chile. Secretary Maker
declined to say what his attitude to
ward the project would be.
FLOOD CONDITIONS BETTER j
Kiln I Only I'lnee W here Slttinllnn In |
More SrrluiiM?l.ocnl 'I'rnnie
Dislocated.
I HOT I KMT, MICH., March Al-i
though several cities and towns in
lower Michigan reported relief from
Hood conditions to-day, the situation
at Flint became worse. l.oeal trafltc
Was dislocated when the Flint Itiver
went out of its banks and Hooded the
city's principal business thoroughfare.
Damage totalling main thousands of
dollars already has been wrought in
Flint alone.
Saginaw reported the river at that
place had risen more than a foot siucc
yesterday, but no danger was threat
ened.
A small bo,\ was drowned in the
flooded Kalama/.oo Wivcr at Mattle
Creek to-day.
CONSENTS TO USE
OF RAILROAD FOR
BEARING FREIGHT
Must Go to Concerns in Mex
ico With Which Army
Has Contracts.
WILL ENABLE PERSHING
TO GET NEEDED RELIEF
Action Docs Not Cover Move
ment of Troops, for Which No
Request Has Been Made.
SHIPMKNT8 READY TO MOVK
Lack of Army Supervision, onirlals
on Border Think. May Render
Service Inadequate.
WASHINGTON. March "1?. ? General
Carranza has aitreoil to P'rmit tho
movement of supplies to the punitive
expedition in Mexico over the Mexican
Northwestern Railroad. The supplies
will (jo as commercial freight to con
cerns in Mexico with which the army
has contracts.
The permission for use; of the rail
road it\not granted *n a military sense,
and does not cover the movement of
oops, for which the American army
has not asked. It, however, will enable
General rershlng's forco to get sup
plies In abundance in a country where
motor-truck trains cannot carry them,
and thus -will aid immeasurably in tho
pursuit of the Villa bandits.
Advices to this effect were received,
late to-day by the State Department
from Special Agent James I... Rodgerd,
who is with Carranza at Queretaro.
Secretary Lansing declined to Rive
any details, aside from the fact that
only use of the Mexican Northwestern
was granted. It is understood, how
ever. that Carranza stipulated that the
use of the railway would be on a "com
mercial basis." as suggested "by the
| State Department In its Instructions to
| Mr. Rodgers.
PI,AN TO MAKK MADIOKA
IMIINCIPAI. BASK l.\ MKXIlft
Now that permission has been given
by Carranza to use the railways, it is
the plan of the military authorities
to make Madera the principal base in
Mexico. The largo mills of the Kl
Paso Milling Company, a L'carson syn
dicate, which controls tho Mexican
Northwestern, are locate1', at Madera.
In anticipation of utilizing the rail
I way. the quartermaster's department
has massed an enormous stock of sup
plies at 121 Paso. Orders for the ship
ment of the supplies to the interior
will be given a soon as ihe transporta
tion facilities arc ready.
Carran/.a's yielding to tho represen
tations of the State Department great
ly relieved the tension in ofheial
circles.
Instructions sent to Special Agent
ltodgers last night were to. point out
to Carranza the urgent necessity of
granting the use of the railway to ship
supplies to American troops. It was
reported to-day that there was a broad
hint In the instructions to inform Car
ranza of the possibility of summary
seizure of the railway, rather than
have tho pursuit of Villa needlessly
frustrated. Rodgers was told to point
out also that Carranza's forces were
given permission to cross American ter
ritory in an emergency when Villa's
forces threatened a Carranza army lit
Northern Mexico. ?
OHDKtt.H i;0 KOHWAIID
TO MKCItKTAIlY HAH KR
Secretary linker issued this state
ment at the War Department to-night:
"We have directed General Kunstou
to tender for railroad shipment car
goes of supplies, either directly to our
military men or to civilians in Mexico.
This does not involve any tender of
munitions for such railroad transpor
tation, nor does it involve the use of
American military guards on any
Mexican trains."
The order to General Kunstou w.??
dispatched late to-day. Under it njs
will make such use of the milro'itlS
as the Mexican authorities penult,
pending the further negotiations with
Carranza being conducted by the Stale
Dcpa rtnieiit.
OXH OP Alt.MVS MOST
MCHIOt.H PIlOljl.KMS SOI.\ K!>
One of the army's most serious prob
lems in hunting Villa was solved when
Carranza promptly granted the re
newed request for permission to use
the Mexican Northwestern Railroad trt
carrying out the pursuit.
General Carranza received the new
request this morning; his answer was
in Washington before dark. It was
Contained in a brief message from .1.
Itoflgers. saying the head of the de
facto government agreed to the com
mercial use of the line, OtReials here
assumed he would be equally prompt
In notifying his otlleers on the border,
and that General Kunstou might begin
shipment to-morrow.
Although the army will proceed to
use the railroad on a commercial basis,
which is construed here as meaning
that all service shall be paid for at
regular rates, the State Department
will negotiate further with Carranza
to bring about a more definite under
standing. To-day's response Is re
garded as being satisfactory In a
measure, but in order to assure the de
livery of supplies along the line, Gen
eral Kunston v/lll desire to place
guards on the. trains.
War Department ollicials were great-.
Jy relieved by the removal of the ne-'
cesslty for maintaining a motor truck
supply train over desert roads for a'
