THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudv to-dav: fair and waer
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
to-morrow. , j 'v
Highest temperature yesterday
Detailed weather, ma'll and marine rei
PRICE TWO CENTS.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 212.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 1916. Contrt,-fi,101.by Mo Snn Printing nnd PubllhlnffAoetaUon.
VILLA BURNS
BRIDGES, ARMY
2 DAYS BEHIND
Appears afr Santo Tomas,
Destroys Property; No
Pnrsucrs Near.
srrrLiKs may go
OX THE RAILROAD
Cnrrau.ii Oives Qualified
Permit Lansing Wants
3orc Light.
TfXSTOX ORPEUED
TO FREIGHT GOODS
Only One Engine and Little
Equipment Left at
Juarez.
Vina turned In his Might from the
American troops jesterday long
rnotigh to appear nt Santo Tomas, half
may between Madera und Chlltualiua,
ruio ho destroyed two railroad
bridges and other property.
Tli American troops are said to be
two uays behind their quarry.
A reply was received from Carranza
to the Stnto Department's request to
Ufe tho
Mexican Northwestern ltttll-X
road to ship supplies from Kl Paso to
Caeas Grandoa for thu American ex
pedition. It Ls fald that such supplies enn Ic
shipped from Kl Paso as freight con
signed to army contractors In Casus
Orandcs In the form of ordinary ship-
I ' tr.ents.
Nothing was said about ammunition
er guards for tho trains. Mr. Lansing
has continued tho negotiations with
Omnia to set more dcllnlte nssur
sec. Secretary Maker informed Oen.
Funstcn of Carrnnza's concession and i
the order to hlp foods probably will
to even at once.
Scarcity of engines) and equipment
or the Mexican Northwestern muy da
isy the shipments, however.
folumhus ha h heard that C!en. Per
tMn;; Is on tils way to the new base
1!" miles below ColonU Dtlblun.
VILLA STOPS FLIGHT
TO HAMPER PURSUIT
Burn. Ilnllronil llrldur i
lliinlpuiciit nt Junrer.
'.t. l'to. Tev., .March I'll. Francisco
i and his band nppeared to-day at
.into ToniiiM on llie Mexican Noitli-
et-rtt llallrond. half way between
M u-m ntul (-hlliiiahua city. He had
I 'v-d through Santa Caterlna, where
Anvruati troops aro now searching.
mii'o Ti'inas Im forty miles Miutli of
Mmlera, whore L'nlted States troops
tifre reported .vestorday. Villa I h'-ad-h
s upward toward tho city of 'h
h ..hi-a.
At Siintu TnmaH Villa burned rail-
f'-il biuUes in both directions and
(i'f-tojed other property. Thero were
ri American troops in the vicinity,
' 'riling o Uio message received hern'
vance 1
win-lit. Gen. i'er.shins'M m:
.. ,r . .eporuii two uays ncnilld.
v my oirtcers wero Jubilant to-day'
.1
iD.ll.'lV 1
Jeer. ln7" "m , ri ,
'.'ll from El Paso. '
4ltKn..l. ,1. .... 1 . ...
A though th. truck tnirisiKirtatlon
1 rt ,1 ,f,l!'ml"JS ''' "t well
1 tne troops have not Kiiffered from
1,1. , :, V"U'1 h'AV 'Ceil lmn5,,,
s.nie to eontlnue this method of serving!
t I (s,ps for linv lenuth of time. f.nv
'iisriernia teis here. It would require
miil.s to supply the army nnw In
mc. o wih evrrthlng It needed, and
'' th.i' .'lid ate In servlie or available.
- ... .i ,.i,.M ii, K,. suppura 10 mo.
Inihl . ifj hhlll ihem hh fieiirlit tn nrmv
".'is,, i M,.X,.f, VPr t,e Mexican
r tein llallroad.
T ' ii an was doptnl after Consul
h'lrnn, ij.irila gave out tho following
ItM. ,i- ,.n K .
I
I' I
,io moi.l of hhlpmeiils for
in Mexico being r fused.
. ' in niilldei,. that If private con
' i tie c.is.is 1 1 ramies .outitiy
'o .,.r 1,1U;, hUpiIles for sale III
' i ' mil t.ie Mexican Northwestern
1 ' I a -ept nd carry the ship-
r Mi .III. lie .inllw.i lll.u i...nia
's i. 'I ni.fe ii,, i, i .,..,,. i t .i,,..
s. ,. Wl,i ,,( supplies in anv qiiantltv,
"ii h.in,.,. y Wn nfcl(d 'as long lis
t.'ev ,. f ,,, , , ', '...,...,
''i 'all into tho hdiids of Villa, would
' .n.-if.i and despatched fo their
"taia-iuii,
"'"hippiiig suprdlcs as freight and tak-
.railto.il and operating it
'"lilfi-rent matters."
T',.. v. . ....
. ... mi mm
.lurinwesterii llallroad, over
"ieii supidb M ,ny ,c shipped as freight
11 Grandes. advised tluough Its
'n'is lu.iilght that the lallroad has
"my two englniH out of Its entlro equip
"Wit thai could make the haul und the
ttsr nf these two had been taken over
1 wines,.,y afternoon by the Carrania
'lhUry Tho officials also stated that
''"'I'r the best conditions a train could
jot in made, up for the trip south be
'Me Satin d.i.v.
Firm to Oil I'lau.
Tlie mppllcs may bo shipped to the
r?rfentaten of linns having contracts
11 SUIllilv the. iirmv. nihil i.nli.f ulll
"ai'lieU, It is said, by an i:i I'aao grocery
nouf, for liiKiani e, which has a contract
' "i.ily certain .groceries, sending Its.
prrsentatlvo to Ctsas Urandea and
"l'l"tig Pie supplies to hltn then. Ha
j'i Pirn thorn over to the American
y niurtni musters. Instead of mk-
inC llellvnrUa . IS. C.n... .
.. m v nai Ml WU.UIIIUUBi
nrni kupplylng the army will have to
Continued on TAlrd Pag,
VILLA HUNT ANOTHER
VERA CRUZ BLUNDER,
COLONEL ASSERTS
"Misconduct on the Part of Our Government Officials,"
Puts Nation in Danger, He Says Bitter
Attack on Wilson.
Ornn:n Hat, 1 I., March 29. Col.
Roosevelt made a caustic attack on
President Wilson's Mexican policy, pant
and present, In a statement delivered
extempore to-night to the correspondent
who gat around him In the study of his
home nt Wagamore Hill, He knew his
theme no well that he had to awing
round in Ills chair only once or twice
to refresh his memory from memoranda
on his desk.
The rest of the tlmo ho leaned for
ward, sure of his ground, his eyes shining-
eagerly and now and then the open
palm of his right hand smacking his
tence fur emphasis. Ills statement Is be
lieved to Indicate heond a doubt that he
has accepted tho lark his friends havo
urged lilm to take In leading the light
for militant Americanism, whether or
not It remits In his going back to the
White Utilise.
The Colonel's Mslrnirnt,
Col. lloosrvclt said:
"I havo received many requests from
good American citizens In Mexico asking
If thero Is not eomo way by which the
American people may be made to under
stand the utterly baseless character of
President Wlli-on's recent charge that
American pioperty owners In Mexico
wire lesponslblo fur stirring up the
trouble therein. All that Is necessary
is to ask President Wllsmi to answer
these perfectly simple questions:
"What Ami 1 U-.m or other property
owners In Mexico secured tho killing
of the 27i Americans who have been
killed by Mexican"?
"Doeis Mr. Wilson mean that It was
American property owners who In
spired him to permit the shipping to
the Vllllstas of th thousands nf ritlos
i ... in iiiiiui.iin vii ti ii
and munitions of war which thei
have now used t0 kill our people
Does Mr. Wilson moan that Ameil-
can property owners Jtis.jdr.-il his then
friend!-, the Vllllstai ami Carran
zistns, shooting ncioss our border on
different occasions to kill on our own
soli nine American soldiers and wound
many others'.'
"Does, Mr. Wilson mean that it was
the owner of property In Mexico,
native or foreign, who Inspired the
Vllllstns and Carraniistas In repeated
affrays at Naco by shooting oter the
line Into American territory to kill
and wound all told some llft.t
seven Americans, Including American
women, American eoldlers In tho
American uniform and the American
collector of customs?
Doe Mr. Wilson mean that It was
the owners of property In Mcxlc
seemed the attack on America
Mexico
ill
and other foreign men. women and
, children at Tamplco and secured also
the dlrce'lon by Picicnt Wilson and
, Secretary Daniels tn tho American
war voa:.ls at Tamplco to steam
away a d lone (Jet Mian and Ihigllsh
vessel.! ' i pioiei'i the American civil
ians to nlimn Mr. Wilson hail denied
t'ei protection of the Star.-, and
Sir! in : .'
Dse .Mr. Wilson .in-in that prop
erly owners In Mexico were r spon
sible lor hi" nit. mate' pi i, i.g uid
lifting th" embargo m t!.e export of
ami) ami munitions to Mexico until
c ( bandit who -.vi-ln 1 arms with
which to shoot Anvilc.ui had them'.'
"Does Mr. WHso."1 mean that thef-e
proiiert owners Kot him to go to
w ir by taking Vera Cruz after light
ing In which several hundred Amerl
(.ins nnd Mexicans Iot their lives,
this war being entered Into fur tho
imrpo-e of getting the Mag saluted,
and then abandoned by Mr. Wilson
without getting It saluted''
11... le... Vie lie,.,. Ol.lmue.
llcvle.vs Vlexlian Htilriiur-.
For tliiee ears theie has beenj
murderous anarchy In Mexico, frightful .
destruction of property, frightful destine-
tlon of life, nameless infamies committed j
nu women nnd cverv eli inent tcllillff fori
law- and order systematically hunted
down and destroyed or dilven out of the
eountry.
"Mr' Wl,!"m ,hrm":" y"'lr''.
,i,ronL.,oiit the time he has cor.ststemlv
f-,i i,.i...if nf r..reseni.i.
llll 'UKIIt'Ml llH' HIHX tlx- iif.' ii,ricu .
. . , I ... .1 a .
lve of banditry or the forces of anarchy.
or In dlsiegard of, the men who reiiresenl
UT HI "ISI CS1..I II ll. III III VII llill.
thP only ,.him:e. , K,,t pClU.rt
cut
and
orderly liberty for the Moxban peofle.
..,, nnw engaged In a second war
In Mexico, lie Is -vaglng a w r against
,.,,i . ...i.i, .i,, i ,,, - ii.,i n,.,r,. ii,-,,,
Villa, with whom but r little more th-in
a year ago he concluded what was In
effect a treaty of peace and friendship
formally entered li.to through one of tho
highest officers of the l'nlted States
...-.,.. f!nn s:n!t l,e Preilileiit Wilson's
jirectlon.
...i ..... s..n. i r..-
i i iini iiizr.iiniH in iii.li. . iil.t ..I ii i fill.
Scott and tho other pal ticipants In this
extraordinary bit of tieaty making were
publlslied broadcast thioughoui the
press,
"Vinl.cs Pence Impossible,"
"I most earnestly wish pe.i e in
Mexico ami with Mex-co, and every step
Mr. Wilson haa taken with regard to
Mexico for the last three jears h.-s
tended to make peace Impossible,
'The gieat war In r.urope has now
been waged for twenty mouth". .Mexican
armed forces lime been killing anil
wounding Americans at Intervals for live
I veins. Yet under tho Piesident's lead
. ,,.,.,. , ,.
OUT l.O CriUII. IIL ,lim .iiiivi, in muni: .11
smallest measure of prepari dncss. As
regards Mexico, our Government haH ap
n.nentlv believed it could Insure, peace
by helping first one and then another
among tno warring .-niein ii. iiMiiuui
and now It Is endeavoring to prop up
Carranza against Its former favorite,
'"in hl message to Congress of De
cember, 10H. President Wilson asserted
we were thoroughly prepared to defend
mie rla-hts and that It was hysterical and
panicky to taut oi me necu oi lurun r
preparedness, lie iimm pint .un-.-u um
of tho Cabinet a Secretary of War be
cause tho President would not back oven
tho small and Insufficient measure of pre
paredness which the Secretary of War
advocated. In consequence, as Mr. Wil
son himself ald In one of his speeches
last February, ho has been exposed to
the humiliation of being unable to patrol
our own border to protect It against
bandits.
We bioke down completely, oeri In
the preparedness necessary for the mi
nute expedition t lint has gone Into Mex
ico. Our aeroplane service went to pieces
lust as previously our submarine service
had gone to pieces. The army and navy
officers are not In the least to blame, but
tho President and his subordinates, whoso
actions for the last three years have
caused tkM csUmltles, are wofully to
blame. Our troops are now 300 miles
In Mexico, and It Is announced that the
Uovcrninent Is trying to buy automobile
irucics ror them In .Michigan.
i ne rreslilcnt Is r Kht to use the
word 'humiliation.' It Is that and more
tliun that for the American people, and
It represents ghastly misconduct on the
part of our governmental officials In tho
past three jears. If there Is this com
plete breakdown on tho part of the (jov-
ernnient of this great and wealthy nation
of lOO.ono.oon Inhabitants in dealing
with a bandit raid, think of the hideous
disaster that would befall us under such
a (lovenitnent If we ever were menaced
by a serious foe.
filiate I'mnous Xprrehes,
''Immediately after the sinking of the
I.usltaulii President Wilson made his fa
mous speech about our being too proud
to tight. A few days later, on May '.'",
lid reported tn the New York Tdiies, he
explained that he was not willing to
speak about patriotism at Independent
tall In I'hlUidelphl.i on July (, saying:
'tills is pfilript the very time when I
would not rate to arouse the sentiment
of patriotism
"The other d.iv In his speech at the
Orldlron Club he was reported as saying
tnat he would bo as much 'ashamed of
being rasli as of Wing cowardly, which
stands on an exact par with a statement
by a woman that she would be as
ashamed of being quid, tempeicd as of
ueing unchaste.
"These three sentence ate equivalent
to the statement that patriotism Is some
times a dangerous virtue and cowardice
a xenial i c. V tutlon whose offlclal
heads conduct Its foreign affalis and
handle Its ainiy and navy 'n accordance
with these prln Iples will encounter pre
cisely such experiences as this nation
has eiKounteied durlu? the last three
J ears and will cam for Itself the possi
bility of the m. ist terrible disgrace and
disaster In the fmure."
liiirdner Only Cnller.
The only pulltlcal caller to-day was
Congressman Augustus p Oardner. one
of the pro-Hoo-evelt men In Massa
chusetts who ale seeking to have the
delegates to the Republican convention
go to Chi ago 1-tit on the Colonel's
nomination. Mr. (iardller discussed the
Massachusetts situation with tho Colonel
Just as Charles Sumner Hlrd did the
other day and went away to consult fur
ther with his colleagues of the Hay
State.
The Colonel repeated the gist of his
Trinidad statement- -his lnlstenre that
his name not be used In tho primary
election of delegates,
To-duy Col. Itoosavelt will motor Into
New York, where ho may spend the
night, lie wilt receive some callers at
the .Uitinpollriiii utiles and may drop in
at the Jewish bazaat in Grand dm rut
Palace.
SLIDE IN SUBWAY AT
THE METROPOLITAN
One .Mini Killed mid Two Otli
'is llmlly Hurt Idiots
l.ntKcncd Hock.
. ,i,, . , ., 1
,.;. A ,a I', 1 '" n'w
Sllliwav at tlii southwest coiner of
I llrnadway und
,, ,
nueui siieei, a lew
leet from the foundations! of the Metro-
poinaii iqiera i louse, crashed down uon
I nine oi inc .-noway diggers at H o clock
. last night Two of the men were badly
"'"' """ "Um " "ClleVUO
fw j,mlrs j,,,,,,.
The excavators were In a gang nf
twenty. flic who vvcrn loading loosened
rock Into a steel bucket and trundling
tin- bucket along a miniature railway
tlack to a hoistlm .h:,ft n-KA.
! twenty-five feet beneath the Rroadnay
sidewalk
, Tho slide stalled at a point higher
1 ,h"n ,n"lr ,"""1'' '"' wall J
roiu cr.ichin o masts showered dovvii.nue and Slxty-second stieet. and that
. 1.
upon trie womeis. .Most or the men, n. I Potter told hltn It would be necessary
eluding l oiem.m ( haile, Foley, jumped to pay Tlmmerman not to disclose that
and were safe. The three who weie.fact. WalteealilheaskedPotterwh.it
caught were Donald Wilson of 317 West I he thought would be a piopcr price to
Thirtv-nlnth street, George Dwyer of pay Tlnimermati and Potter said ho
Ninth avenue near Thlity. ninth street, i thought $1,000 would be it proper price
and Michael I.eivkke of 203 Kast Third "Mr, Tlminemian," Judge Swaiin con
street. tinned, "has shown himself ahsnlutelv
Running back after the caveln stopped above reproach and be.vond crlt.clsm In
Foley and Ills men easily pulled out his I elation to this case,
Wilson and l.ervlcke, but Dw.ut was' "Walte told me that on Sunday, March
burled up to his chest and wedged so1 P.. he wrote out a check for $9,100, on
tightly that It took twenty-five minutes account, and gave It to Kane, dating the
to frie lilm. Meanwhile two ambul mces cheik. Mondav. March 20. Soon after
clanged up llroadway from New York l' gave Kane this check Kane returned
Hospital, and tlie police wrestled with a 11 to hltn ami said that Potter had ad
crowd that gathered In front of the xlseil lilm not to bank It. Kane then
opeia house. demanded of Walte that ho make the
Wilson and Dw.ver were taken tn the ' check- Into cash,
hospital, where the laller died within ai "Tlln ",:t morning nr made an nr
few hours. Wilson's left aim and left rangenient at Kane's suggestion tn meet
leg wire broken and his whole bodv was, Ki""' llle "-'""i' :,t the cigar store
much hiulsed. Ills condition Is described '" Hrt) -ninth street ilea- the southeast
as critical, l.ervlcke had many bruises
and cuts, but was able to go home,
Tho llolhrnok. Cabot & Itolllns Corpo
ration has the subway contract along
this part of llroadway. Yrs-erday's
slide was not far fiom the point whcie
half a bluets of timbers and temporary
wooden wnm ear
WILL CUTS OFF W. C. CARNEGIE
,;.,. onlv small Trnt Fund Out of
i.ris ipiii smiaii i rnsi i linn inn in
Mother's ifil.'i.OOO.OOO,
PiTTHHt:uii. March 29. While all other
children share equally in the $15,000,000
estate of Mi. Lucy Carneglo William
Coleman Carnegie Is cut off with a small
trust fund In the will of his mother,
Just probated heie. Mr. Carnegie mar
ried a nurt'o who attended him. Mrs.
Carneglo was a sister-in-law of Andrew
Carnegie,
The other children are Frank Mor
rison Carnc'elo. Andrew Carneglo 2d,
Thomas M. Carneglo, George L. Car
negie and Mrs. Margaret Itickntson.
Mr. Carneglo and bin wife aro to re
ceive the Income from the trust fund
during their lifetime. If the former
nurso divorces her husband she Is to
lose her share, Mr, Carnegie Is well
known as a golf player and has figured
In many tournaments.
Mpaln Would l.eurii Rranniliis's Fntr
Sptcial Cable Unlatch o Tun Sex,
Mapiiio, March 29, The Spanish Am
bassadors at Paris and London have
been Instructed to verify the report that
Enrique CJranados, the Spanish composer,
was lost on the Channel steamer Busies.
EMBALMER IN
THE PECK CASE
ELUDES POLICE
Xets Out for Man to Whom
Waitc Said He Paid $9,
000 to Keep Quiet.
DEXTIST FIRST TRIKD
GAS TO KILL 3IUS. PECK
The murder guilt of Arthur Warren
Walte Is so well established In the judg
ment of District Attorney Hwann es
tablished not merely by a welt linked
chsln of circumstantial evidence but by
confessions which were curiously am
plified yesterday that the Investigation
Is now turning to Indications of black
mail and conspiracy.
The person most wanted In this con
nection Is Kugene Oliver Kane, embalmer
for John S. Potter, manager of the
Plow-right undertaking establishment at
144 Lexington avenue, who Is accused
of receiving J9.000 In cash for agreeing
to "doctor" specimens of embalming
fluid with arsenic and to swear that
arsenic was used In the embalming of
the body of John 1 Peck.
On Tuesday night Kano was at Orient
Point, near tjreenpolnt, U I. Yesterday
and last night a great many persons,
Including the Police Department and the
District Attorney's staff, did not know
where he was. Thc weie afraid that
he had decided to take a vacation from
the aiduous labors of a mortuarlan. De
tective Cuuulff went to the Long Island
Itatlroad Station to meet a train at 6;2!
last evening, but Kane was not aboard.
Neither had he nached his home at 42"
West Fifty-seventh street.
Knur's l,'iiipliirr (lurst toned.
The dlfappeatHhiv of Kane made
necessary. In Judge Sw aim's opinion,
long and detailed questioning of Kane's
emploxr, John h. Potter, as to whether
or not Walte had told the truth In say
ing that Potter was aware of the scheme
to deceive justice and save Walle's life
by putting arsenic In sampled of the
Potter concern's embalming fluid. Judge
Swaiin and Assistant District Attorney
Doollng questioned Potter until in o'clock
last night and weie assured by him that
ho knew no more about the whole mat
tr than certain confidences that had
been made to lilm by Kune.
The District Attorney was Impelled to
bring Potter Into the Investigation after
a conversation with Dr. Walte cs.terduy
mornlng In llellevue Hospital. Judge
Swanil hlmeelf related the substance of
this conversation last night.
"1 went t Uellevue Hospital at 10
A. M he said, "and found there Frank i
ili
Walte with his brother, the dentist. .
Dr Walte again expressed himself as
leady. willing and anxious to make a
.full statement uf ever thing connected I
with the case, in answers to questions
1 put by me he said that In regard to
, his arrangement to purchase testimony
j from Kugene Oliver Kane, the matter
, was first suggested to lilm by John S.
Potter, manager of the Plow right un
dertaking rstabllshmtnt at 111 Lex-
Ington avenue.
"He said that Potter called on h.lll
and said he had discovered that the
I'ltrlct Attorney was anxious to get a
.,...,..! ... .1... .....i. ....... .. ....
I 'v hi.,., iiiiiiih ,11,111, 1IJIIC
. ... .'''."" "'"".. I'"'"
said that
advisable
i or iuiu i nner it wouiii ne
to have the embalming fluid
arsenic. I'ot.er r. plied that
lid cost mniiej . Walte ask.d
h and Potter said he didn't
contain
that woul
how mui
know; that he would have to consult
Kane, who did the embalming, and that
he would send Kane to him.
Wanted to Pay I lie Druggist.
"Walte said that Potter raid to him:
'You cannot expect Kano to do this
and put himself In that position unless
he Is well paid for It."
! of ha v I n g pii rcha sei 1 arse n I c fioin rim
Walte said then that he told Potter
...... . unniei m i.c viiituni iivt-'
'orneriif .Ninth avenue. He said that
when he did cash the check, throuch
Clmlottl, the garage keeper, as ha been
stated heretofoie. he got into an auto
mobile and went to the cigar etore and
theie found Kane waiting.
. ' T ' , . ' "!'
.J; J -
"lie said that Kane slopped into one
(Walte) that he was u a position to
receive the money. He stepped up to
Kane and handed him the money In a
11 wn" wrappeu. it was a
, . ,.., . 1n. .
....r,., ... T-.. ...... t.vv ..nt, nwiiic ,u
bills.
May Kane I'ocUelril thr tl,llin.
"After Kane had received it he put It
Into his pocket ami stepped up to the
assistant In the cigar utore who stood
In tho rear of the store (the store Is
aliout fifteen feet deep all told), and
said, 'I don't bellnve I will wait for that
telephone call anv longer. I am going,'
Walte says they then separated,
"Kano did not give lilm back tho
check for $9,400 because It had been
agreed that Kane should receive a total
piryment ot $25,000. and out of tho $2,",.
000 Kane said he uuderfctooil ho was to
pay some drugglal for keeping unlet
about the sale nf the drug.
"The next thing was that on Monday
afternoon Walte, having dlscoveird, or
thought ho discovered, that his wire was
tapped, sent a letter to Potter telling Klin
not to communicate wllh him by tele.
photi ny more iih llm wire u tapped,
Ho scut this, ha said, by the superin
tendent of tlie Colosseum apartment
house.
"After that, Walte aald, he saw Kane,
Continued on Filth Vagt,
PACIFISTS IN
CITY COLLEGE
DEFY FACULTY
Draw Petition Against Plan
to Have Military Train
ing Course.
GEX. WOOD TO TALK
TO STUDENTS TO-DAY
Socialist student at the College of
the City of New York have been aroused
to anger at the proposal of the trustees
and faculty to Inaugurate a lourso In
military tralnltnr, and their protests yes
terday brought on them the Indignation ot
those undergraduates who wish to learn
practical soldiering.
The vials of socialist wrath were
poured out .vesterday In petitions pro
testing against a military tiatnlng course
which, the petition sis, "will poison
our minds and put murder In our hearts."
The petitions present a crisis to the col
lege authorities, for at neon to-day Major
(Jen, Wood Is to speak on their Invi
tation at a big meeting in tho great hall
of tho college.
The purposo of to-day's meeting Is
to interest City College students In the
part colleges can play In secuilng pre
paredness through more widespread mili
tary training, ami is the result of action
by the trustees, llarly th; month they
appointed a committee, of which Presl-1
dent Mezes was a member, which, after
lonferrlng with a faculty committee
about the possibility of adding a mili
tary course, invited (!en. Wood to
pcak.
Ill her Prominent Men There.
There will ne other prominent men on
the platform to-day also, Including Col.
Charles H. l.ydecKer, chairman of the
boHid of trustees and one of the com
mittee favoring preparedness course;
Ilernard M Haruch. sienrge McAneny,
foimer president of the Hoard of Alder
men, and James A Hjrne, a former
trustee.
If the opposition to the military training
KriV win' be'".?; nmdt;;er'7hnaVann;!RePulse Heav' Counter Attacks Against Positions Won
....!.., .1.1a t.,,rlfnn i.f t li n atllilenf hflH 1- I
of any college has lejeeted tne prepar-1
edness Idea Gen, Wood has epoken re-
...... ... iVIi,m1.I i a, Hrlnlnn "till a.
the Cnlverelty of Pennsylvania, and there, i
as well as at
other universities, tne
Idea has been taken up. A bill Is
pending In Congresn providing for train
Inc officers In college nnd giving for
such woik credit toward the degrcee.
The socialist lesolutlon follows.
Yorit Lifts Is in Vorr. Hands; Do
Ynf Want It"
Wlieren.s military train ng l a .rim
ln.il mlseilucattoii because It teaches
one to obey ami destine Instead of to
think and to cotistiuct. and
Whereas students who have taken
urh a course ut Plattrhurg have con
clusively s-hown that It Is a menace to
Isith the mental and moral health ot
mind, and
Whereas Gtu O llvan of the New (
S.-...1 inltl, I a.wi.Ii. Imu a.,1,1 -
that a good soldier must be an auto
maton, and Daub I Jones, secretary of
the National Defence league, has said,
"Mlllt.tiv drill Imparts Immediate
obedlen e to superlots, ' It Is thus
viciously antl-Ainerlcaii, and
Wheie.is the students, "f this cloil-
, l.i.tllMllon ...m serve their onmtiv
i , . n. i. . .'.
''' 'r way '' i V f"" '
'an by murdi ruig and being mur-
,k',r;.'1- , , . , ...
J We. the underMg.i.M. in view of the
iibove considerations, do vehemently
protest against the InttodiKtlon of a
.nurse In tlie College of the City of
New Yolk which will po'son our ,
minds and put murder 'u our hearts. .
The advent of the petitions caused ex-1
cltemcnt. though appaieutly they did not l
come to tin- attention of the faculty.
There was plejity of Indignation among
many ot tlie stuneiii muy wno oojecieu
to such phrases as "viciously anti-American,
nurilerltig nnd being murdered,"
and others.
Aniinrr UiifcUlv lilvrn.
From Ihls element soon Issued the fob
lowing b.oa.lslde with the same heading
as the socialist petition:
Whereas although we are good
American bnvs and love our country
clearly, ami
Whereas we believe that this coun- I
try never will need our services and
drarlv hope that war will never
menace us, and
Whereas wn believe war Is u hnr
llble thing and perfectly useless, and
Wlieieas we believe that peaceful
arls are more conducive to moral bet
terment, we insist that a sewing circle
be formed at once tn offset the mean
ifTorls of ihoso naughty men who
would so ii'Cllety endanger our In
dividuality. Tho appeal mice of this resolution
aroused still more excitement nnd for a
time It looked as If the socialist would
be forced to forset their scruples' and
light, or beat a retreat. In the turmoil
the petitions disappeared anil It was Im-
possible to nsrertani now many slgna
tines wero secured. There Is certain to
be a big at tendance at to-day's meeting.
however, of both the paclftms and mili
tarists, as each calls; the other.
COL UMRIA STIRRUP.
Aiill-Prrpareilness l.enaiir In Flahl
I'latlsbiira; lilrn.
Ciilumbia's iiimpalgu to send a icconl
squad to Plattsbuig will meet .sjiposi.
lion from the Anil-Preparedness la-ague,
which, it was learned viv-terduy, Is plan
ning to offset llle effects of the prepared
ness meeting held at Columbia last
week, when Major-Gen, Wood nnd
Minor Mltchel wno giectcd by 3,000
undergraduates.
.1, M, Daiiahy, '17, and i:. S, F.aiie,
'17, are the leaders In the pence nl any
piico faction and they plan to hold anil
w.ir meetings and also have articles In
the Nprrfcilor. So far the .t nt 1st have
taken no public eland and the committee
of undergraduates which Is seeking to
send ion men to Pl.ttlshurg U about
to begin a systematic canvass to enroll
uludeiitM for the fix weeks, imliilng, The
board nf student it piesent.itlves, headed
by Hubert W. Watt, has promised to
cooperate,
r.nr.AT iiisak hi-hino watkh.
Mr. Ili mis at sU IM slupptred feattlis.
AIV. 1
GEN. HUGHES NAMED IN
SHELL FRAUD CHARGES
Resignation of Canadian Minister Demanded After
Parliament Is Told He Secured Orders for Close
Friend, Who Floated "Mushroom" Companies.
Ottawa, March 29. The resignation
of (Jen. Sir Sam Hughes as Canadian
Minister of Militia and Defence was pre
dicted In political circles here to-night
as a result of chaiges mado before Par
liament by Oeorge W. Kyte, Liberal
member for Richmond, N. S.
Mr, Kyto produced documentary evi
dence to prove that Col. J. Wesley Alli
son, agent for (Jen. Hughes, in the pur
chase of war munitions In the L'nlted
States and referred to by the Minister
of Militia as his "friend, philosopher and
adviser," had organized mushroom com
panies In the L'nlted States, secured
orders for shells and shell fuses from
the 'Canadian Shell Committee through
the aid of Urn. Hughes, and had charged
exorbitant prices for the shells and
pocketed millions as a result.
The companies mentioned by Mr. Kyto
are the American Ammunition Company,
liicortiorat d In the State of Virginia
on May If. last with an authorized capi
tal of $1,000,000 and a subscribed capital
of $1,100, and the International Arms
and Fus,. Company. Incorporated on
June ! In the State of New York with
an authorized capital of I.SMi,Oo0 and
a subscribed capital of $3,000. The
men behind thee companies were J J. H.
Cadwell and B. F. Yoakum of New York
and K. W. nasslck of Hrlrteepurt. Conn.
On June 19 they got fuse contracts
from the Canadian Shell Committee to
the value of $22,000,000. The .lay the
contracts were awarded the Shell Com
mittee advanced them $2,160, 000.
Shortly afterward Mr. Yoakum asso
ciated himself In a partnership fanned
il(qwecn Col. Allison, ilen. Hughes's
agent and friend, and Kugene l.lgnantt.
a member of the orchestra In the Itltz
Carlton Hotel, Montieal. This partner
ship secured contract" from the Cana
dian Shell Committee by which Mr. I.lg
nantl was to get $26,000 and Col. Al
lison and Mr. Yoakum $1,600,000 to
FRENCH HALT
7- av rr rnrnr
M J litffJ
in Avocourt Wood, Stopping Teuton Advance
in the Village
tpt i Jl lablt lirtpalch tt Tar. Si x.
London, March 29. Heavy counter
atUckK were dltected by the Germans
to-day against the positions taken by
the French forces th'S morning In Avo.
court wood. Three atta.ks were made
and all were repulsed,
Northeat of this sector a great force
of Germans attack, d the village of
Malancourt. gaining a foothold In an ad
vanced work north of the village and
capturing two houses In the village It-
lf. Succeeding attacks were tnaiie in
- . ,.. , ,i, .-iln". but these
-.n - ..'. , ...s.
vere stopped i w" " '
. . ... . ,. .. .1. nrl
I machine gun ami ruic nr.-.
French
Hold
I'lislllolia.
..- ..nt .i.t ....... ....t.o.'.iiA Is-neil bv
the French War Otllce to-night follows:
i Hetweeli ine .-is- ami inc " ..
nrilllerc dispersed imisirtaut t ouvo
no X ast of Moul i.-h us-Touv ent.
' ''''; ,;;,.VrV,,me we evplod. d a mine
rtt, ,.f .e Four de Paris. The ex-
Xi ilestroved grenadier t and
shelters anil enemy works.
inir heavy artillery illnctid mime'
ous bombardments against Malan
court wood and Avocourt during a
counter attack executed by the Ger
mans on a neighboring sector.
West of the Mtilse the bombard
ment continued with violence In th"
course of the day fioin Wocourt to
llethlncourt. Three successive mini
ter attacks made b the oneim on the
positions taken by us this morning in
Avocourt wood were completely re
noised. In the course of one attack
; with a great number of effectives di-
nZ to'gain
lf11,;ollV(,l)l, , ndvanc.d work situ-
1((t.(, m,rth of Malalicoiit t and cap-
i tured two houses In the village. VII
thrr attempts to press further weie
stooped bv our tire.
There was some violent InC'm.t
tent artillery firing east of the Meue
and In the Woevre as fa! ns l.es
F.p.irges.
In the Vosges we bniiibarileil Ger
man organizations at Slnssiv.hr and
Muenstcr.
The niccessful assault b.v the Fieiieh
on the positions tn Avocourt wood this
morning was preceded by an intense ar
tillery tire, it resulted in the French
occupation of the southeastern comer of
the wood to a depth of over 300 arils
and the capture of the Avocourt icdonht,
a strongly fortified German work. The
n..,m,iw retaliated Immediately by
sending a fresh brigade to recover the
lost ground, but the attack was icpiilsed i
with heavy los-cs in me jn.ir.in. nu..-.
Tlie French afternoon communique was
us follows;
In the Aigoime our b.iilones bom
liariled the positions of the Get mans
north of La Haute Chcvatuiice iiud mi
Hie southern boundary of Choppy Wood
light with hand gieniiiles, made in
ionium-lion with activity In llm next
sector, made It possible for us to make
piogiess, particularly in the council
lug ticiiches of the enemy to the north
of , voi mil t. We also took seveial
prlsoneis,
West of the Mtilse the oneiiiv minle
no liesh effent last night against our
poslllons at llaiicnutt and .Mnbitiiourl.
The bombaidnienl, however, assumed a
certain Intensity along our flout nt
Helhilicoilil. I.e Molt Homme nnd
iiniitercs.
This inoinlng. after nu Intense
punitory arlllloiy lire, our tump do.
Ilvered a siiiitod attack ngnlut llie
German positions In Avociuut Wnnd.
We occupied the soiitheasloi u comer
of this wood for a depth of mule than
300 yard", us well as an Important
wink" called llie Avocmiil tedoiilit,
which Hie Gt'imaiis had slniuglv loili
tled. A violent and sudden loimtei atlail,
ilelivered b.v the enemy with a 1 1 fell
brigade, w bleb had ai lived on the seeiio
tint a few dns ago. was completely
repulsed bv us, I he enemy suriered
heavy losses and loft fifty prlsonera in
I ' lir hmda
V
Fust of the Meuse thete hna btcu
dlvldo between them. The musician
quarrelted with Col, Allison and with
drew from the partnership upon pay
ment of $50,000.
Of the 5,000,000 fuse contracted for
wtth the two American companies on
Juno 19 Mr, Kyte charged that only
44S.ono havo been delivered.
Tho alleged connection of Col. Allison
with tlieso concern while at the same
time acting as tho agent and adviser of
I !rn tftlph.ia In tlia tmiffer nf WMT nlir-
chases and tho fact that Mr. Kyto pro-(
duced a letter showing that the contracts
wero secured upon the order of den.
Hughes himself baa almost ct cited a
Cabinet crisis here.
A number of (iovorntnrnt supporters
who formerly were opposed to an In
vestigation of uhell contracts are de
manding the reslgnalon of (.en. Hughes.
Laist tilght'i debate was adjourned by
the Government, the Cabinet fearing to
test Its strength In a division. I
It was announced to-night that Sir'
HoBert Uordcn had cancelled nis engage
ment to speak in New York tho latter
part of the week. .
(len. Hughes Is In England, but was
cabled to-day by the Government de
manding an explanation of tho charges.
V. n. Cadwell of New- York Is a mem
ber of tho firm of 12. 11. Cadwell & Co,
bankers of 25 Droad stieet. He Is ehall
man of the board of the Canadian
Pugi't Sound Lumber Company, Limited,
mid a director of the llvdraiillc Oil
Storage Company, Detroit, and the I
Standard Screw Company.
Borden I sn't Come Here !Mlarilay.
William Allen Itutler. president of the
Lawyers Club, received a telegram yes
terday from Sir Hubert l.alid Itorden.
the Canadian Premier, stating that It
will bo Impossible for him to be In New
York next Saturday, as he had Intended.
Accordingly, the afternoon meeting and
the dinner which the Lawyers Club had
planned In Sir Ilobert's honor have been
post poned.
GERMANS AND
mT at TsrrDnr r at
M-J A Jll V LJlLSVJ I V It
of Malancourt.
great activity on tlie pail of the op.
posing artillery foic.s in the region of
vauv and Dnuaunmnt and )fle
Woevte, hi the sei tor of Moulalni llle.
on the icmalhiler ,,f tl, fmnt the
Mght was quiet.
There is a marl.nl nntradlrtio he.
tweeji the German oirlcial reirt l-sued
this afternoon and the French com-inunlqiie-
regarding Pie situation at V.-r-
in II west or tin- Mens... The German I
olflel.il slntenieiit s.ijs n,u .,(.
.. me ...rm.ins yesterday on the
Mal.in ut front, which the official
communique Issued by ti.e Pieneli War
Office last night -.till was completely re.
,..,ie., mi. Hermans stormed French
liilsltlitnu ni-., .. ..i
' I I 11,1. Ill llllllMT II Ml
metres i 2.H',7 nrd-I and penetrated Into
I the northwestern portion of Malancourt. IY"1' I
.Nearly .'.00 pri-oncis were taken, accord- I ,, n,.
ii, i- ... ,l,.. U..-11.. . 1 . ...a to
. ... i i .iii e(ion, which aria;
,-; that two more French divisions have
i '' " sent Into action in thta regum.
Mnrm French Positions,
The Geiui.in st. ite men' :
South of St Llol one of the mine !
cialers n-oupinl by tne I'.iitisli was I
m rested fiom t.iem as :1 ti-stllt ot a
' tianii greii.idn . iigagi ineni.
mi the left bank of the Meus,. our '
Hoops, with lutle lov.1 fo themselves, '
stunned Flench positions north of
M.il.iiuoiiit imr a trout of about
-.'.(inn meteis I2.1i'.; van!?!. They
also pollinated into the northwest-
i em portion of .Miil.inciiurt. The FkmicIi
Ii rt in our hand, twelve oillcers and
txi; unwoui.ded men, one gun and four
machine guns.
Kxaiiiinalioit of Hi,, piisoneis taken
' ii a I.I. it us to coiinnn th. belief that
two inure Fieni h divisions have been
bioiight into the lighting. i
llrig.-Oen. Largeau, who distinguished
h.nr-elf In the Man-hand expedition In I
Urlca. has been killed In action at Vei-i
dun. Me was one of the voungesf hrig.
.nlier-geneials In tlie Flench army.
Ii HIT IS II HOLD (1AIXS.
t'onsolldale Positions Win s(,nlli
of ot, lllol.
.;"..'!' ohlf lfs;ijf.. r Till .
I.ii.mion, March 29. The billowing re.'
i,i-t fiom Mnt'sli henlqii, liters In
I'uinre wus l"siiiil to-nisht by the cru
cial piess bureau .
The day was quiet Kooot.illv on tne
whole front. The cueiu.v sprang a
small mine thU morning cast of lie
thuiie without infllcttiig d image.
I South nf St. IIIol we have consul
, Idoled all the ginuiul g lined on Mini- '
da.v.
ISltlTISIl LIKE so MILES.
I im Mold VI I Oiie.r.iiiri h ,,f ,,.
j Went From,
iei id ( ill.li' hf im.r'i ft Tin. - t
, leiNlinN, M.inli .iii-i'he col iessiiid
I out of the O'lllii Villi at HiitMi head
Iqiiattets In I'r.inie lelegiapli :
i "The Itritlsh have extendi d their front
'until I lies now hold alsuii elghtv uiil.-i,
or, luilglil... a iiuatiei of tl.,. we-lein
' f i ..tit.
"When it bec.iiin known ih.u t ie G i.
mans weie piopa'iiig a iln acninst
, Verdun In a 'gie.il lln.il ouVmdvc,' s
' their comm.inilcis ..ml, tin. .'ieteh
elected to bear the Iiiiiiii with t li.-lt- own
Hoops, inns III leleuse a quantum of
their III but lint ourselves to link liny
pit' ll l.i 1 11 1 1' offensive. It was enoui,i if
, wc look the new line, tear I it ,n
made it linn uuile Gen I', lain, who com.
'ui.indiil Ihls se.-tion for in.inv iuili,,i
iiioulhs, I i ,i tl Ii. I soii:'i in the new storm
' c clitic '
Vmerlclln Vliiliiilame llocloe lien,!,
sici in ( if. 'r.iiii .ii tin sis
I'viiis. .M.i t U 2' Dr I'loslii Win-.
Mi. in. .ill Vmeiiiaii, wlio h.nl lueii ,oi.
, in i ll ,1 Willi the Vine ricaii X -m .11 1, n. ..
iiosp.tal Wink hole, is ib.nl. llm ileatli
w.im accelerated ti nvciwoil. ,-.iue the
beginning of llie war besides other work
he bud .ill. tided at Dr flllllnuii and
Dr, il)dc'u liis-piinU,
SUSSEX STRUCK
BRITISH MINE,
GERMAN STAND
Dprustorff Asserts Berlin
Will Xot Discuss Case
With U. S.
WILSOX JIEGAKDS
ISSUE AS G II AVE
Gel.sOt'iicial Report of IVril
to American in Sinking
of Another Ship.
n-ti r x-m -ix.r..
W M J .NOT IfESORT TO
DIPLOMATIC MEAX3
President Intends to 3l,ik
Decision Solely on
Known Facts.
Wajiii.ncto.s-, March 29. The German
Government will take the position that
the explosion which damaged the Chan
nel steamer Sut.ex, resulting In the los
ot a number of lives and Injury to mv
eral Americans, was caused by a British)
mine and not by German submarine.
It was made clear to-night, following the
arrival of Count von llernstorir, th
German Ambassador, that tho German
reply to tho request for Information
which Pre.sl.lcnt WIUou has Instructed
, Ambassador Gerard to make In licrltu
I will b based upon thh contention.
The Germ-in Government declines to
""' inoe.. .
the Sussex disaster. The Imperial Gov
ernment has taken no steps to discus
the matter with Washington nnd Count.
Von llernstorff said he taw no reason for
discussing it with tho American Statu
Di pattnient.
The latest ndvi,c. from Paris sla'n
that tho captain of the Sussex lh.ilts)
that he saw tho wake of tho torpedo
befoie It struck his ship, and that h .1
Ftatcment has been cabled to the Statu
Department by the American Lmbassj.
The Ambassador arrived nt 8:3'l
o'clock this evening from New York. Ha
was obviously worried over tho develop
ments of the past few days, but an
swered questions with his iisii il courlesj .
When told that the tension had reached
a veiy high pitch In White House and
State Department circles hero tho Am
bassador replied :
I cinnot help It. One cannot hi.ime
! Corinaiiy because tile Sussex ttrm-l,
liriti-h mine
t lie German? ' I'r.MiilNr,
Tlie Ambassador emphasized llie fact
that Germany had agreed that pa-scnger
ships wuiild not bo iilt.'iikeil by sub
marines, lie oxple. ei the opinion that
mine winch damiged the Sussex w is
Hiitish mine whh h hid I u anchored
near the coast and drifted into tne
steamer's track.
When asked If the Geimau Fcmlgn
(ffice had cabled Instructions for lilm
to discuss the Sussex with the Anii riuin
Statu Department Count von livrusiortC
replied :
"Why should we discuss It.' It do. a
not concern us."
Asl.cd If he Intended to I. ill. to Sec.
rctaty Lansing about It the Amb i.is.oiur
icpllut
"I have i.ot the slichtc t intention
to "
Fuithfr questions along this line oiny
inade it mine evident that c !ci man.v'
position to-day Is baseo on the asser
tlon that a Hiitish mine was proliab'.'
tespoiMbl" and that neither a licima i
siihiii.n Ine nor a German mine could
have been the cause. There am Indica
tion that Germany will stand linn cm
this Issue and vclll pot take Willi anv
gicat icllsh pr. sumptions Impugning her
pledge to the Fnited States. It Is alxi
predicted that llm tension In mflelal
clnics hole over the Sussex mse will
have no effect on tlie position which the
Herman Foreign iMflce h.i aln.nl.
laid n in ii gnu! to ll
There have been vc.l-I hint f'oni
Inspired German sources that the Get.
man i !ov i riiment would hasten to i
puss tcgrct and disavow in adv. nice
anv attack nf a German submarln i
n passenger ves-il Them now appc.n
to be little Justlllc.ttloil tor this ,e
sumption. Apparently Germany will
in. ike no ilis.ivna.il In the case of Him
Sllsse.X.
The tl.lt M.lte'llollt ilcnvltig lcsion-..
Iilllty and putting the blamo nu iiu,i
lliitnln ciiiphaslri s l Ik. Inipoi t.un n nt
piovlug that a German siibm.niiin at
lackid this vcs-el and at the same
time Indicates that Count von Horn.
sloilf at least dm s not consider that
Geimany has any li.tei.ilou of breaking
Inr pledge to the Fulled Sl.it. s with
leaaid to siiliniarlne watfau. Mean
Mine, iiiei casing evidence b stcad'l'.'
leaching the Stale Department that Go.
man suluuaiiiies me striking nghl and
I. 'H nl iiieiiii.intuicii.
mil her cssel
sunt.
V'l.el li-.lll Consul I 'l list .It OuiCl.s-
low ii c.iblnl to the State Dop.it tmenl to
night a tnllows
"Hiitish stian,... C.igle Point toiw
peiloi ll M'stelllilV vv .tin lilt W.l.llilli. i.e o
hiiii.h ...I mile" Itooi land. Ml saved,
l l,,e Aniel lC.H. "
Tl , mikis tlie f.i.ii'lli a"f with n I 1
l.i-t fi vv das wheic Aim i. cm litis Ii.ivh
nceii plue.l I'l Jiop.iidt or .-iii diced bv
alliBcd attacks of Ueiin.in eibm.irme
Sc.- et.irj Lansing had baldly -ut h -uie.s.ige
nt luqu'.l.v t i V'uli.iss.id. ,
Gel i.d about the Sqs.i mid Kigll-i-iti.
hi when oll'.c.il news mm, uf i
siibni.iiine alia. I. on the .M.ilicl'i"ler -.i
gtueel Tills I loilowid In llle lepo -.
nl the alia, k mi the llag.e Point. Tip m
ih p.itiiie- .it.ng low i -i inc le.icu-
,ng heie siiiiulliilieini- v with i.ew ei .
,, i.i poiiili ig to the t.i'i Iba' the Sas-
M X Wile stllll k ut ! torpedo.
In llltse c'.lciiuist.lli. i s t ,ie ia i
,11.1 .ei til-' lU'le lo-nignt belwi,. i
he i" t.on when 1'ies.ilenl in ,,. .
the M.I e I leo I oc III lake .1 1 'I I
ii, i i ' n I vun Itei nstoitf .r.d
ililiiian I'ue'Kn 1 'Ificc ll was mm..
, 1, , in., ii' th Picsldetit Wilson nnd
i-ct.trj Lansing ate convinced that
German) ha", deliberately or otherwise.
1 i
W.i.ci'5;
itaiiv
t:to
