Fergus County Democrat
/OL. XII., NO. 27
LEW1STOWN, FERGUS COUNTY, MONTANA, MARCH JO, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
MANY ARE KILLED IN
A RA ILROAD W RECK
Three Passenger Trains on New York
Central Come Together Thirty-Seven
Miles West of Cleveland, Ohio.
TWENTIETH CENTURY LIMITED ESCAPES
Eastbound Passenger Train, Running in Two Sec
tions, Collides, Throwing Debris on the Opposite
Track, Into Whic'' Twentieth Century Limit
ed Crashes, but - S,ate librarian Rails.
IIIci 'EIVa X
_
CLEVELAND, Ohio. March 29.—
With a. toll of at least 30 persons dead
and 40 or more injured, federal and
state officials and officials of the rail
road company have begun an investi
gation into the cause, which early to
day led to one of the most disastrous
wrecks in the history of the New York
Central system.
Three trains, including the Twen
tietli Century Limited, westbound, the
New York Central's palatial dyer, and
two sections of No. 86, known as thr
Chicago-Pittsburg Limited, east'iound.
came together In collision near Am
herst, Ohio, 37 miles west of Clevc
land.
Reports generally credited wort
that the first and second sections o!
No. 86 were proceeding at a rapid raL
and at some points were only a milt
or so apart. When the second sec
tion crashed into the first, the Twen
ieih Century Limited plowed into tilt
parallel tracks and the three wert
thrown together into a mass of debris.
The coaches and engines of No. 8t
were toppled over and wreckage war
piled 30 feet high. Two cars wert
smashed to junk. Fourteen coache:
were overturned.
The Twentieth Century emerged al
most unscathed and proceeded on it:
westward journey, its passengers un
injured except for a severe shakint
up. A heavy fog from Lake Erie had
settled down over Northern Ohio
This, with the alleged failure of s
towerman to do his duty under tin
rules, ituS ascribed by some of the
railroad officials as the cause of tin
disaster. The towerman, it was said,
Imd been without sleep most of tin
time since Sunday night, his wife lie
lug ill and requiring his attentior
when he was not on duty.
When the half dozen investlgaticnr
already under way are concluded, tin
blame will be fixed.
W. F. Scliaff, district superintendent
of the New York Central lines, said
today:
"The towerman can have nothing t(
do with the c ause of this wreck. The
explanation lines between the engi
neers and the block signal system.
"We tested out the block signal ays
tern this morning after the wreck am'
found it working perfectly. After the
wreck Engineer Hess and his brake
nan, A. H. Gates, with Brakeman Wil
liam Blakeney of the Twentieth Cen
tury Limited, walked back to the sip
r.nl which Hess drove by. They nl'
said they found the signal red. oi
blocked, then."
Scenes of confusion followed thr
collision. Many of the injured, pin
ioned in the wreckage, called for heir
as uninjured passengers, half clad
emerged from the sleepers and joined
with the trainmen in the rescue work
Firemen from Amherst were amour
the first arrivals and succeeded in put
ting out a fire which started in tilt
wreckage of one of the coaches.
General Manager Moon in an officia'
statement said this coach was a "mod
ern solid-steel coach." Passengers and
others who were on the scene did not
all agree as to the correctness of this
statement, many contending the coach
was of wooden construction. Those
who disputed the assertion that the
coaches were all of solid steel, point
ed to the fact that the ear in which
the fire started—the "death coach," as
they called it—was torn into small
fragments which burned like tinder.
The wreck occurred shortly after 3
a. m. and it was near 4 o'clock when
something like organized relief work
was begun.
Hospitals in Lorrain and Elyria to
night were filled with injured from
the wreck and it was believed gener
ally the death list would exceed 20,
the first figures announced.
Hospitals were run from Cleveland,
Elyria and Lorrain to the scene of
tlie wreck and nhvsicians and ambu
lances were rushed from all of these
SENATE BEGINS CONSIDERATION
OF NATIONAL DEFENSE MEASURE
WASHINGTON, March 29.—Consid-1
eration of the army increase bill, tlie
first of the big national defense meas-j
ures. began in the senate today with
republicans joining the democrats
expressing the hope that it might be
disposed of as quickly as possible,
Senator Chamberlain, chairman of
the military committee, Introduced the
measure, which is a substitute for the
Hay bill, passed by the house, and ex
Plained its provisions. When the bill
hud been read it was laid aside to per
mit senators to familiarize themselves
with it. Tomorrow it will he called
"I* for reading bv sections and will be
kept constantly before the senate
til passed. Senator Chamberlain an-.
points. Hundreds of villagers and
farmers from Amherst and Its vicin
ity did heroic work in caring fur the
dead, dying and injured. Most of the
(Continued on Page Eight.)
CARRANZA
CONSENTS
PERMISSION IS GRANTED U. S. TO
SHIP ARMY SUPPLIES OVER
MEXICAN RAILROAD.
WASHINGTON, March 29.—One of
(he army's most serious problems in
hunting Villa was solved today when
General Carranza granted the re
tewed request of the state depart
ment for permission to use the Mexi
■ an Northwestern railroad.
General Carranza received the re
quest this morning; his answer was
m Washington before dark. It was
contained in a brief message from
James L. Rodgers, special agent of
tiie United States at Queretaro, say
ng the head of the de facto govern
nent agreed to the commercial use of
the line. Officials here assumed he
would he equally prompt in notifying
iiis officers on the border and that
General Funs ton might begin ship
ment tomorrow.
Although the army will proceed to
ise the railroad on a commercial
basis, which Is construed here as
neuning that all service shall he paid
or at tlie regular rates, the state de
partment will negotiate further with
arranza to bring about more com
plete understanding as to just what
he has agreed to. Today's response
s regarded as being satisfactory in
a measure, but it is not sufficiently
definite. It may be, too, that in order
to assure the arrival and delivt ry of
supplies shipped to points along the
line, General Eunston will desire to
place guards on the trains.
War department officials were great
ly relieved by the removal of the
necessity for maintaining a motor
truck supply line over desert roads
for a distance of more than 200 miles.
A cloudburst or great storm might
render tlie roads impassable for aeon
siderahle space of time, cutting off
the troops from their source of supply
at the border.
Aside from tlie railroad problem, de
tails of the protocol suggested by Gen
eral Carranza remain to be worked out
through diplomatic channels. State
department officials indicate, how
ever, that there is no reason for haste
in this connection. As was the case
when American troops crossed into
Mexico in pursuit of Geroniino, the
Apache outlaw, years ago. tlie formal
agreement mav not he completed un
til the expedition has accomplished
its purpose and returned. It will
serve, however, as the legal basis for
the adjustment of all claims arising
out of the use of American troops to
pursue Villa.
In Mexico the agreement is under
stood to have, another object. Gen
eral Carranza is said to desire its per
fection as a definite and binding un
derstanding with the United States
which he can show to his people in
support of his statement that no sov
ereign rights of his country have been
surrendered or violated.
There was no niilitarv news today
from the border or expeditionary col
umns. General Pershing's report to
General Funston has been very brief
(Continued on Page Eight.)
nounced lie would ask for night ses- j
seions unless reasonable progrey
made without them
i So far there lias been no evidence of
in'any serious opposition to the bill as
I a whole, though changes in certain
j features will he advocated. Senator
| Borah gave notice that he would light
j the national guard provisions
| The chief aim ot' the senate suhsti
tute is to increase the peace strength
of the regular standing armv to in
000 men. It also provides for a A d
' eral volunteer force of 24 1 , 00 )I men
and the national guard of ''Suomi
| which would be placed under federal
un------------ "
(Continued on Page Eight)
THROWING HAND GRENADES AT GREATEST FIGHT IN HISTORY
French Soldier Tossing a Grenade Into the German Trenches. French Soldier Examining His Grenade Closely.
These photographs wore taken inland throwing them into the trendies of $ I (10,1)1)11.(11111, is the greatest of his
the French trenches at Verdun. They of the enemy. Tlie battle, in which lory. Perhaps il is greater than most
show soldiers examining tlie grenades | explosives have been used to a cost wars combined.
IMPPEQQIVF
Illll IVLOul Y L
TALE OF PLOT
VON DER GOLTZ BROUGHT FROM
ENGLAND TO GIVE TESTI
MONY IN PLOT CASES.
NEW YORK, March 29.......A military
expedition to invade Canada, which
was halted by the failure of a Buffalo,
New York, lawyer to appear at a tiun
agreed upon, with an "organized firing
squad," it was said tonight, was purl
of an alleged conspiracy to violate the
neutrality of the United States upon
which the agents of the department oi
justice ure working secretly in con
nection with the return here yester
lav from England of Herr Von Her
Goltz.
Von I)er Goltz. who, it is said, claims
;o have been a trusted agent of Cap
ain von I'apen, former Germany mili
tary attache In this country, was
questioned at length! today by United
States District Attorney 11. Snowden
Marshall and bis assistant, Roger B.
Wood.
Von Der Goltz, according to Captain
William Ol'fley, chief of the local bu
lean of the department of justice, told
ail impressive tale of plot and counter
plot.
The federal authorities let it. lie
known that the publicity given to Von
Der Goltz's return here, accompanied
by a detective sergeant from Scotland
Yard, may interfere with their plans
to round up suspects wanted in con
nection with the alleged proposed mili
tary expedition to Canada, which, it
was said, Von Der Goltz has admitted,
involved the blowing up of railroads,
bridges and public buildings, and the
destruction of the Welland canal.
Von Der Goltz went to England the
latter part of 1914 under the name of
Bridgman Taylor, and, according to
persons closely identified with the de
partment of justice investigation, re
cently arranged with the British au
thorities to be returned here to give
testimony.
Von Der Goltz is quoted as having
said he was supplied by persons in
I plans and diagrams for the destruction
I of Canadian property. He i s said to
j have asserted that his assistants, while
pro-German, wore not of German de
scent, but were actuated by hatred of
England.
------O------
EMBARGO ON GASOLINE.
WASHINGTON. March 29. Repre
sentative Howard of Georgia today in
troduced a resolution to empower the
j president to place ail embargo on gaso
volved in the alleged plots here with
line exports. Mr. Howard said he
drafted his measure fitter a conference
with Secretary lied field of tlie depart
ment of commerce who told him pro
ducers were asking the government
not less than 40 cents a gallon for gas
oline. which was bought last year for
11 cents.
--®
NEW ALTITUDE.
PENSACOLA, Fla., March 29.
Lieut. It. C. Saufley of the navy aero
nautic corps, late today established
what naval station authorities declared
to be a new world's altitude record
lor a hydro-aeroplane when he ascend
ed 16,072 feet.
JOBBERS TAKE REGISTERED WAIL
FROM A TEXAS & PACIFIC TRAIN
SHREVEPORT. La., March 2(1.
Jobbers boarded a Texas A- I'lieifie
nail train. No. 22, at I lie station here
■arly this morning as the train was
pulling out. They mitered tin* mail
•ar, hound and gagged two mail clerks
and took from the car two pouches o!
registered mull. They left the train
it Shreveport Junction, about two
miles from the station.
The police immediately dispatched
i posse in automobiles. It was said
that there were two robbers.
The value of flip contents of the
registered pouches is not known ami
no Information regarding them could
be gained from the local postoffice.
IY0R oT SAM ASKS KING
TO PROTECT CITY FROIVI AIR RAIDS
down with barbarians [
SALONIKA, March 27. (Via Paris,
larch 29, , r »:20 p. m l Tlie mayor o.
ialonlki lias telegraphed King Con
stantine asking that the population ot
he city be protected against future
Ur raids. The funerals of (he vie
inis of the aerial attack were marked
ny shouts of
ml criminals
One ol tin* bombs fell in front of!
In* house of General Mosclinpoulo.s, |
onimandi-r of the Greek forces
Ialonlki.
mm STEAMER KILBRIDE WAS
SUNK BY SHRINE MARCH
LONDON, March 29. "The British
steamer Kilbridge was sunk by an en
emy submarine March I," says an an
nouncement made by Lloyd's this eve
ning. The Kilbride was a vessel of
3,712 tons.
The Jirilish steamer Luviuia Wes
toll has been sunk. Her crew was
saved. She was a vessel of 3,12,1 tons.
©
SHACKED BRITISH STEADIER BUT
THE VESSEL WAS HOT SUNK
LONDON, March 29. (7:3,n p. in.)
The Hritisli steamer Berwindval was
attacked today but not sunk She
which" i
was a vessel of 5,232 tons.
-----O---------
WESTERN UNION EARNINGS
NEW YORK, March 29.—The an
nual report of the Western Union Tele
graph company for the year ended De
cember 31. 1915, made public today.I
shows earnings equivalent to in.19 peri
cent, on the capital stock, as com
pared with 5.38 per cent, earned in
the preceding year.
O---
SWEDISH ARMY BILL.
STOCKHOLM, March 29. (Via bin
don, March 30, 1:30 a. m.i -The Swed
isli parliament today passed the army
bill appropriating 104,090,000 kroner,
to he devoted chiefly to in
creasing the movable artillery and de
vidcpiiig Hie flying corps.
____-o____
b£D CHECK ARTIST.
SAX DIEGO, Cal., March 29. John
S. McFadden of Boulder, Colo., was
arrested In re today and confessed, uc
cording l" the police, that he had left
a trail of had checks in nearly every
western slate.
PEONS TEAR
UP U.S. FLAGS
MEXICANS OF LOWER CLASS BE
COME INFLAMED WHEN THEY
HEAR OF CHASE FOR VILLA.
SAN DIEGO, Cal . March 29. Mexi
can peons thronged the streets of Mu
zallan, lore up American flags and
threatened to do bodily harm to Alum'
lean residents there when they learn
ml of tho punitive expedition senl after
Francisco Villa, according lo ('apt.
Frank Raschull of the schooner Pauu
ma, which arrived from the .Sinaloa
port today.
Mexicans of the better class, as well
as officials of the port co-operated in
stopping the rioting. Captain Baseball
said. He said there Is no apparent
anti-American feeling among the more
educated natives, Inn that the peons
are easily Inflamed.
AUTHORIZE EXPENDITURE.
PORTLAND, March 29. Expend!
tares authorized by the Oregon Wash
ington Railroad ,V Navigation Co.
in a(,(lltinn lo normal outlay, will a«
ft r *'Kntf'$.'.,. r )U0,000 during tin* present
year. The budge) authorizing tin
improvements was approved last weak
at a conference held in California he
tween Robert S. Lovell, eliulrniHli ol
the Union Pacific system, anil J. U
Farrell, president of the Oregon Wusl
ington railroad, who made I lie an
houneeinenl here today. 'I he largest
single item in the budget is that for
completion ol I lie Vale extension ill
Oregon from Riverside to llarriinan
This will cost $920,090.
ORDER LOCOMOTIVES.
PHILADELPHIA. March 23—Fill,
freight locomotives were ordered lo
day by the Pennsylvania lines, West,
25 being awarded lo the Baldwin Lo
eomotive Works and 25 lo the Lima
Locomotive Works. The locomotives
will be of the Mikado type and tin
order will approximate $1,900,000. Tin
Baldwin Locomotive Works also se
eared an order for 25 Mikados from
the Great Northern railway.
STRIKE AVERTED.
CHICAGO, March 29. Possibility of
a strike of 20,000 members of the
Amalgamated Garment Workers' asso
ruction. which was threatened May 1.
was averted today when the Whole
sale Clothing Dealers' association an
nounced a reduction in working hours
from 52 hours a week to 50, with no
reduction of pay.
of honor tonight at a hall given herej
for the benefit of the American Red
Cross.
MINNEAPOLIS STILL AFLOAT.
LONDON. March 29. (10:56 p. m.)
The- British steamer Minneapolis,
which was torpedoed without warning
in the Meclinn-iaiiean last Wednesday,
remained alloat, according to a Reu
ter dispateli from Malta, and attempts
were being made to tow her into port.
About 200 of the crew of the Minne
apolis were landed at Malta and 1$
men were missing.
---O—---
GUESTS OF HONOR.
WASHINGTON. March 29. Presi
dent and Mrs. Wilson wore- the guests
STRATEGY OF GREAT
COMING O FFE NSIVE
Englishmen Do Not Believe Germans
Will Succeed By Attacks on Verdun
In Upsetting Pre-Arranged Plans.
GERMANS GAIN FOOTHOLD IN MALANCOURT
Germans to the Northwest of Verdun, in an Infan
try Attack, Launched With Huge Effectives,
Gain Additional Ground Against French, North
of Malancourt, and Enter Corner of Village.
LONDON, March 29. (7:0,» p. in.)
'The official coniiiiiiiilcatlnini having
revealed the fuel Unit the British
armies have taken over n length of
line previously held by the French,
says Reuter's corn .-punilcnt at British
SITUATION
IS SERIOUS
IN NEW SUBMARINE WARFARE
GERMANY DISREGARDS RIGHTS
OF ALL AMERICANS.
WASHINGTON, March 29. Tile uc
cumulation of eiicmnistanllal evidence
Indicating that Germany has engaged
upon a campaign of submarine war
fare which has no regal'd for the
rig,Ilfs of American citizens traveling
on incrchanl ships of belligerent nn
tlonalily, the administration considers,
has grouted one of the most Hcticait
sit util ioiiH which has confronte d t tic
United Stales since the 1 , beginning ol
the war in Europe.
Every agency open to the state de
part incut tonight was being employed
in an effort to gather an tiniiiipeucli
able array of facts regarding the ex
plosion which daiiiagecl Hie Itrllisli
channel steamer Hcihiicx, lice sinking
of till' British ships Mniieliestei' Engi
........ Englishman, Eagle Point mid
the lliitc-li steamer Tiilinitia anil the
alleged firing of a torpedo al the
French passenger ship Patria. All ol
lliese ships enriiecl American citizens
and all apparently were iittaelced in
violation of Germany's renewed us
sui'ciiues lo (lie United States.
The next step of tin* United Stales
it Is mi id acilliorllciHvely. lias been do
lerniiiced upon. Unless Gei'iicany, Ii
reply to the Inquiries nnulo by the
United States through Ambassador (le
rare) makes sonic statement to cause
the state department lo change lie
present intentions, il is understood
that all tho recent aggravating inel
dents will In* combined in one* genera'
formidable Indictment which wil'
bring tln> entire subject to a clear eul
issue.
Should Germany admit respoimilcll
ity for any of tin* attacks and attempt
In satisfy the United Slnfc-H by say
ing Unit a mistake hail been made, of
for lo make repartition and to punish
Hie submarine commander, I lu> issue
would not by anv means be disposed
of, Il is regarded i IH certain that tlie
United States will not accept such all
explanation as satisfactory, at least
until time has shown what punish
nicnt actually was meted out to the
offending submarine commander and
whether nnv value longer could he at
ached to Germany's promise's.
In the vent of Germany's disclaim
ing responsibility for flu* disasters
the United Stales will proceed with
its investigations to determine to It*
iwii satisfaction whether the evidence
'' lilc'li now strongly Indicates tbut the
Sussex and other ships were torped
oed without warning can lie regarded
's conclusive proof. With proof be
fore it tlie governiTi.t*nt probable
would act promptly- Officials rofriii
from discussing wliat the nature of
lie act iuu would In*.
Tin* very number of apparently un
warranted attacks which have* or-1
•nrred recently Is regarded by Hie ad
ministration as particularly signifi j
- ant. The* number is said hv officials 1
lo have disposed of the theory flint
the explosions might have been caused
by mines. Some of the cases, It was
(Continued on Page Six.)
OFFICERS SEARCHING FOR MAN
WHO EMBALMED BODY OF PECK
NEW YORK, March 29.—District]
Attorney Edward Swann centered his
- ftorts tonight upon locating Eugene
Oliver Kane, who embalmed tin* body
of John F. Peck, wealthy Grand Rap-
ids druggist, for whose murder his
son-in-law. Dr. Arthur Warren Waite,
is under arrest here. Kane's arrest
has been ordered on the charge of con-;
spiring to commit a crime.
Waite is said by Mr. Swann to have
asserted that Kane accepted $9,000 in;
cash and a check for $9,400 as part
payment of $25,000 lie was to be paid
for swearing that lu* used arsenic in
embalming Peck's body. This ar-!
ningement, Waite said, according to
the* district attorney, was made after!
headquarters in France, "I aui per
mit led to make* reference to It.
"The new dispositions were carried
*-Ut with , real skill ,-el - . - , . ,p.
till! Ii nil it. lie c;p I-., . . ,
large French forces who were inani
icntlj of great value In another area.
U present, the British are probably
holding something like one-fourth of
Hie entire length of the western front,
extending In an unbroken line from
Hu* Yser to the Somme*.
"Although the hour of the British
army may lie at hand, It Is not yet;
nor is there any reason to believe the
Germans will succeed by llndr attacks
hi Verdun in upsetting the pre-nr
ungctl strategy of the great coming
offensive*."
GERMANS ADVANCE.
PARIS, March 29. la an attack with
(envy lor...... against the village of
M nIniicourt today, the Germans sue*
■ceded in gaining a footing In an nd
vaneeil work north of Malancourt, nnd
iccupylng the house*!! in the village,
iccordlng to the offlclul statement, 1s
iieel Icy the war office tonight. Fur
her attempts to advance were checked
by the French fire.
WHO KILLED COCK ROBIN?
BERLIN, March 29. (By wireless
■<> Tuckerton.) "The Dutch ministry
if marine bus made a report on the
linking of the Dutch steamship Pal
-lllhaug," says the Overseas News
Agency. " Ac cording lo sworn state
uc'iits of the captain, first mate, boat
iwaln and sailors, several explosions
ii-i-urreil while a British destroyer was
n-iir the I'alenibang engaged In ex
dodlng mines liy machine gun shots.
"Immediately after the rirst explo
nin, which diiimigcd the Palenibang,
-i-veral members of tin* crew suw a
■vhltc truck of foam ancl bubbles, coni
ng from the how of the British de
troycr. A .......... telegram to the Lo
iitl Anzclger from Rotterdam says that
n making this statement the Dutch
nlnlslry of murine does not mean to
ay tlml tlie British destroyer torpe
hied the Palembaug, but only that a
lleak of foam was seen coming from
lie destroyer's bow,"
ASSOCIATED PRESS RESUME.
'I'll*' Germans to tlie northwest of
ei'cl ii a, iii an Infantry attach iauuch
d with huge effectives, have gained
additional ground against the French
north of Malancourt and have even
peiietrated the northwest corner of
Hie village. Tlie attempts of tlie Teu
tons to carry their advance farther,
however, were stopped by the French
ire, as also were three counter at
ucks against tin- positions In the Avo
■ourt wood, south of Malancourt,
which previously had been taken from
1 hem by a French tnfuiitry attack. 'Die
■ erman official communication says
he advance of the Germans north of
Malancourt was over a front of more
linn a mile. During the German of
fensive on Malancourt the French
heavy guns in the Arginine were dl
ree-tlng their fire oil the Malancourt
mil Avocourt. woods.
A heavy bombardment has been In
progress from Avocourt northeast
ward a distance of five miloH. There
has also been a continuation of tho
sporadic outbursts of artillery fire to
the north and "list of Verdun 'n P
VoKge mount aids the Frem Ii batti r
ic-s have* hciin lu -.ping u.i tin ir i. i J
hiiniluirilmc'ut of German organiza
tions.
In mining ojicrations in the Argonne
the French have blown up German
posts and between the Oise and Aisne
have dispersed German convoys with
their guns. The Germans assert that
in a hand grenude encounter they re
(Continued on Page Eight.)
an autopsy on Peck's body disclosed
the presence of a large quantity of
arsenic. Waite, in statements made
■ to the district attorney and others, is
said to have confessed not only to pol
seining Peck, but placing germs of
virulent diseases in the food of Mrs.
\ Peck, who died at Waite's apartments
six weeks before her husband,
j John S. Potter, the undertaker who
j had charge of Peck's funeral and who
employed Kane as embalmer, was ex
' ainined this afternoon and tonight at
j the district attorney's office. Potter
i reiterated denials that he had any
part in the alleged negotiations be
|--- —----
(Continued on Page Eight.)
