WEATHER
'J
Arizona Thursday
fair and colder.
YOPK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
March 22, 26.50
BL M l
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. IS, NO. 262.
BISSEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 30, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
nan
fliM FORGES
i meiMA fin ft nTinr nntn i nnrnlj
DOnO til C nrnnroT- i:
I liUULLI!! iu ratal
n cDPnMC !wca
UILflUUiuL
Venustiano Carranza Notified
Umted States that Troops
May Use Mexican North
western Railroad.
PERMISSION HOWEVER,
IS CIRCUMSCRIBED.
Both Military ar.U Civil Offi
cials Are Greatly Relieved!
Overthe Issue in This Stum
bling Block.
(By Review Leased Wire.)'
EL, PASO, March 29. The first
train bearing supplies to Gen. Per
shing's troops at the front will prob
sbly leave Juarez sometime tomorrow.
Immediately on receipt of news from
Washington tiiat General Carranza
had permitted the use of the North
western railroad for the sending of
supplies, final preparations were rush
ed by the Quartermaster's department
for the forwarding of emergency food
supplies and gasoline.
The limitetions imposed by General
Carranza, confining shipments to
goods sent to citizens in Mexico, who
have contracts with the expeditionary
force caused some disappointment
anion-? army otficers. It was feared
that thsse restrictions coupled with the
fact that military guards could not ac
company the trains, might seriously
hamper the transmission of an ade
quate stream of supplies.
The Northwestern Railroad between
here and Casas Grandes, near which
hUrnarfme in mVxIc.. waI""wn,enl ",aV "0t be j '""tor trains.
mitted the expedition has achieved itsj Disappointment of the staff officer,
bridges which scanned the numerous !'-"Toe and returned It will serve., at headquarters was unconsoled how.
arroyos. or gulches, between the two jnowever- ,h,e basl!.' for tne ad:' ever lhev had expected the de fac o
towns have been burned by the bands U''ent of all claims arising out of ( government of Mexico to give unquali
of brigands who have roved this coun-,np usc y lne American soldiers. Gen-J Bed consent to the use of the Nirth-
try during the last two vears. These
hridges have not been repaired but.'ection as a definite and binding un
temporary tracks have been laid on derstanding with the United States
improvised road beds in the gulches
themselves. The tracks cannot stand
any very heavy traffic and makes the
progress of trains very slow.
The equipment also of the road Is
poor, most of the cars being in heed
of repairs. At the best of times a
train leaving Juarez took eight to ten
hours to negotiate the ICS miles to
Casus Grandes. At present members
of the quartermaster's staff bell -ve
the trip will not be made in less than
twenty-two to twenty-five hours.
This, however, will be a considerable
improvement over the time made
by the motor truck trains operating
from Columbus. These trucks take
thirty-one hours to reach Casas Gran
des under the most favorable circum
stances allowing only three hours for
halts and rests. But the roads from
Columbus have been considerably cut
ud by the constant heavy traffic they
have been forced to bear. Continuous
sand storms have caused serious trou
ble and trucks are not ablt to carry
more than a 2,000 pound load. The
troops at the front, require 100,000
pounds of forage and food daily and
this does not include the requirements
of the soldiers guarding the lines of
communication or the q uestion of
gasoline. The gasoline problem Is be
coming very difficult and expensive
and is far from being solved. Large
quantities are required for the motor
trucks and aeroplanes and the amount
needed increases steadily.
Permission for the full use of the
Northwestern Railroad would mean
that the border base of General Per
shing's expedition would be slrifted
from Columbus to El Paso. This step,
however, will not be taken under the
present circi mtances. nnd, in any
event, it is planned to continue the
motor truck trains as, at least, a sup
plementary service.
The complete absence of any defi
nite news of the pursuit of Villa has
caused a noticeable slackening of in-
t'Test in the expedition so far as the1
border hi concerned.
r.ignt Americans w!io came t O hi I
Paso from Chihuahua City when thej
l rlted States soldiers crossed the bor
der, returned to the Mexican state cap
ital today. They said they felt cer
tain that all danger of molestation
had rnssed. J. W. Hammond, one of
t lie party, said:
w o nn Tin, i unir . i o .ii,
any advances toward Chihuahua i'iv
'inder the present conditions. As far
ns the constitutionalist authorities are !
c oncerned, they have always been i'
vrv courteous in t'.ieir dealings with
us."
Fifty Americans in all came to this
ily from the interior when General
(Continued on Page ?.) ;
Government Will
Pay for Use of Line. Bridges
and Road Bed Said To Be
in Bad Condition.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
Washington. March 29.-One of
me HIII1V fit UIUM priiuun inumrin. in
hunting Villa was solved today when i
General Carranza granted the renewed J
request cr me state ucpanment iori
petmission to use the Mexican North
western Railroad.
General Carranza received the re-j
quest this morning: his answer was re-.
ceived in Washington before dark. It
was contained
in a" grief message from
James L. Rodgers. special represents-
live at Queretaro. saving the head of
the .lefacto government agreed to the
use of the line.
All hough the army will proceed to
use the rr.ilroad all service shall be
naid for at regular rates. The State
Department will negotiate further with
Cirranza to bring about a more com
pleie understanding as to just whet he
has agreed to.
It may be too. that in order to issue
travel andidelivery of supplies shipped
to points along the line. General Funs
ton will desire to place guards on the
trains.
War Department officials were great
ly relieved by the removal of the ne
cessity for maintaining a motor truck
supply line over desert roads for a
distance of more than 200 miles.
Aside from the railroad prorblem. I
detail:' of the proctocol suggested by
General Cerranza reach out through cd anxiously for almost a week for
diplomatic channels. State Depart-. the granting of his request and mean
n.er.t officials indicate, however, that !: while the forces commanded' by Gen.
there is no reason for haste. As was . Pershing were moving further and
the case when American troops cross-; further into the interior and rapidly
ed into Mexico in pursuit of Geronimo.
; t h Annctio nnllav venra npn tha fpfl.
,fra' 1 arranza is said to ciesire us per-
which he can show to his people in
support of his statement that no sov
ereign rights of his country have been
(Continued on Page 6)
BETTER FEELING PREVAILS UPON
THE 1ZH-S0M BOUNDARY
(By Review Leased Wire)
DOUGLAS, March .29. A more
optimistic feeling than has been ex-
hibited since the American punitive
expedition crosseu me imnuanua Bor
der was in evidence on both sides if
the border today, following recaipt of
the news Uiat Venustiano Carranza,
de facto president of Mexico, had giv
en permission for the passage of food
supplies for the expeditionary forces.
The undercurrent of alarm which nas
been evident among Americans and
Mexicans alike, over the possible out
come of the railroad situation appar
ently has been dissipated.
Mexican Consul Ives G. Lelevier an-
. -i ,l.i . i. i ....... .. r
nouueeu .ouay iu.i u.c ..u.u.. u.
1400 ravalrv under General Arnulfo
Gomez, who arrived from Hermosillo
this week, are being distributed be-
. , . . . , '
iween loioma .Mortuus, rvacozari,
Cumpas and Moctezuma.
Twenty ,
wagon loads of food supplies for the
Colonia Morelos contingent left Agua ,
Prieta today. Arrivals report that the
Gomez column numbered by actual
count approximately 1200 men.
General P. Elies Calles, military
governor of Sonora. has caused the
dismantling of the wireless plants in
Nacozari and Cananea, owned by and,
oDcrated for the benefit of the Mocte-
vim. a rorm-r romnanv anil the Can-
lanea Consolidated Copper company.
Pnnsnl l elevier sai.l that was done
by the military to enforce the strict
censorship established by Calles two
weeks ago.
There was no evidence that the
companies liar I violated the censor-'Tuna
; ship or intended to do so. however. J
ine muve ueuiK purely precauuuuai .
, - . - . . 1
!T,le -'a0ZAr' wireless plant was dis-
mantled by taking down the aerial
v, ir's home on a high pole. j
npr!eral Calle3 received information ,
froIn I'crmosillo today that the Ores-
ton Colorado Mining company had re-
smed operations at its mines in La i
folorada and Minns Prietas. They
(Continued on ra6e 7)
BANK ROBBER FAILS.
SEATTLE, Wash., Mar. h 29.
'Two men with an automohilr
attempted late tuday to roll the
Kin:T County State Hank, near
the University of Washington.
When one of the men pushed a
revolver against William Nor
quist, assistant cashier he drop
ped to the floor and pushed a
buzzer which sounded in a
hardware store ncit door. The
men fled.
S a 4
Suppties Are Ready
At Army Bases For
Shipment to Mexico
(By Review Leased Wire.)
Quartermaster's Corps Alrea
dy Has Big Order of Neces
sary Articles at El Paso in
Order to Ship at Once.
SAN ANTONIO, March !9. General
Funston had not received ollicial
notification late t-Jtlay that he was at
l"" t0,Sl,ip ,1,PP"e8 through Juarez
lu v- V . , .
s,led to hc ( oaimlsr- Depanmen.
rc rach that no delay was expect
eu. it was nuiil mat niiiiiii a lew
hours the stores which the Quarter
master's Department had been accu
mulating at El Paso could he billed
to points along the Northwestern
once the official sanction was given.
The position taken by the advance
forcfs of Ceneral Pershing made some
new routing of supplies necessary and
Carranza'3 permission to use the rail
road for the transportation of sup
plies, was a relief, even although bear
ing the handicap of the conditions
"ship as commercial freight." It had
been realized for several days that
some method other than that of mov
ing supplies by motor trucks over a
sandy route of more than 250 miles
would have to be secured unless the
expedition were to be placed oa a
jeonardv. General Funston had wait
placing themselves beyond reach of
It,. .1 .-i r ,I,a i .-,..- m .. Lir'p
- i n i N iiuiii VI i' 1 1 . 1 in in isuiuii LU
ship supplies as commercial freight
consigned to some one not directly
connected with the army, was regard
ed as inadequate.
The first shipment of supplies will
Continued on Page Six.)
j- . ' . ttt'II
rrogresswes Will
1 AT I
OnSlUPr VflflOMGl
Politics Here Soon
Meeting of Bull Moosers in
This City is Called. Only
Matters Pertaining to Na
tional Convention.
To consider national progressive
politics only. J. M. Alexander, chair-
f thp , , progressive central
'
committee, last evening in Phoenix,
canea an open meeting m ih"sip
, i . , In I i . Anril C Thiu
ives
to meet in ISisbee, April 8. This was
the word received late last evening by
F. A. Nathan, secretary of the Cochise
county central committee of tn party
According to the plans of the pro
gressives the meeting will take on the
nature of a convention yet will differ
from a pure convention in that it will
be of an open character. Each county
in the stale is entitled to two voies
and the additional representation will
be baed on every one hundred votes
cast for Roosevelt in 1912. in both
cases the delegates are to be selected
by the county central committees.
The convention will have the powpr
to nominate and elect delegates to the
! progressive national convention, which
is scheduled to he held in Chicago on
fi 1'nr thin reason nnlv national
aspects of the political situation will
oe considered and ine woik oi uie cim-
vention is expected to he. comparative.
iv. short and to the point
Local committees may be expected
to be named in the verv near future
to arrange for the hall and other parts
of the entertainment of the delegates
who com to Bisbee for the meeting, j
in an probability the convention will
be held in Odd Fellows Hull.
If Si DEAD
mum
THE BUM
CENTRAL
: Twentieth Century Limited
and Two Other Passenger
Trains on Famous Line Run
Together in Dense Fog.
: (Ey Peview Leased Wire.)
j Thos dead in the wreck are: Arpad
j Holtsi, theatrical manager. New York;
1 Walter fasten, East Philadelphia, Pa.;
Raisin Obdiah, Indianapclis, Ind.; Mla
:inca Binroe, Indianapolis, Ind.; Rev.
Gustaf Walyi, Pastor First Evangical
Church, Detrcit;. Fred. Weassr,. De
troit. Mich.; J. Risey, J. H.' Hearn,
jcllipolis, Ohio: D. Fruichtman, Tor
onto; B. E. Ashs, Transfer Mail Man,
New YorK Central, Olmstead Falls,
Dhio; R. Thomas, Philadelphia, Pa.;
jyorgi Ojiiiici, Indianapolis, Ind.; Ed-
vard Leroy, East St. Louis, Ills.;
Jennie Dr;ymn.er, Cleveland, Ohio;
Charles Nelson, Chicago; Bruce Brom
iey, Hillsville, Pa.; Unidentified man,
icgro Pullman . porter,, probably .H.
White.
Six oth;r unidentified men and
three unidentified women.
CLEVELAND. Ohio, March 29.
With a to:aI ol at least thirty persons
iPid and forty or more injured, leder
.u anil state officials ami officials of
,he raiiroad company have begun an
investigation into the cause which
early today led to one of the most
disastrous wrecks in th history ol
.he New York Central system.
Three trains, including the Twenti
eth Century Limited, westbound, the
New York Central's, palatial flyer and
two sections of ..No. 86, known as the
Chicago-Pittsfcurs Limited, east bound
came together iu iilislon near Am
herst, Ohio, 37 miles west of Cleve
land. Reports generally credited were that
ihe first and second sections of No.
J6 were proceeding at a rapid rate
and at some points were only a mile
ir so apart. When the second sec
tion crashed into the first section, the
Twentieth Century plowed into the
a reek of the first two trains which
bugled over from the parallel tracks
ind the three were thrown together
into a mass of debris.
The coaches and the engines of No
6 were toppled over and wreckage
.vaa oiled thirty feet high. Two cars
.vere smashed to junk. Fourteen
coaches were overturned.
The Twentieth Century emerged al
most unscathed and proceeded on its
westward journed, its passengers un
injured except for. a severe shaking
up. A heavy fog from Lake Erie had
settled down over Northern Ohio. This
.vith the alleged failure of a tower
man to do his duty was ascribed as
the reason of the disaster. The tower
man, it was said, had not slept most
of the time since his wife had been
ill.
When the half dozen investigations
which are under way are concluded,
the blame will be fixed.
W. F. Chaff, district superintendent
of the New York Central lines, said
today:
"The towcrman can have nothing
to do with the cause of this wreck.
The blame lie's between the engineers
and the block signal system.
"We tested out the block signal
system this morning after the wreck
and found it was working perfectly.
After the wreck. Engineer Hess and
his brakeman. H. A. Bates, with
Urakeinan Win. Ulakeuy. of the Twen
tieth Century, walked back to the
signal which Hess drove by. They all
said they found the signal was red.
or blocked then."
Scenes of confusion followed the
collision. Many of the injured, pinned
in the wreckage, called for held as
uninjured passengers, half clad, enierg
ed from the sleepers and poined with
the trainmen in the rescue work.
Firemen from Amherst were among
the first arrivals and succeeded in
putting out a tire which started in
the wreckage of one of the coaches.
General Manager Moon in an official
statement said this coach was a "mod
ern solid steel coach." Passengers
and others who were on the scene did
not agree as to the correctness of this
statement, many contending the coach
was of wooden construction. Those
who disputed the assertion that the
coaches were all of solid steel, pointed
to the fact that the car in which the
tire started, was torn into small frag
ments which burned like tinder. The
work occurred shortly after 3 a. m.
and it was near four o'clock when
something like organized relief work
was begun.
Hospitals in Lorain and Elyria to
night were tilled with injured from
the wreck and was generally thought
that the list will exceed the first fig
ures received. Hundreds of villager
and farmers from Amherst and vicini
ty did heroic work in carins fcr the
dead, dying and injured.
(Continued on Page S
' :
COMMISSION CF ENS OFFICE
(i LVESTON, March 2J.-
I ii' .Mcxit'iii'. n a t .. ii.il coinnus
l ion of exi h-.-n-ri s and moi.r y,
just organised iiy II'" ueucto
government, opened its oldce
tho local cousu'..ile "n Icl ranhic
advice" today. The commis
si!. u v. ill t xi hungo New York
drafts for Constitutionalist cur
rency at much more favorable
rates than those chargt-d by the
bunks.
i
Navy Department j
Assistant Makes I
Recommendations
: !
Assistant Secretary Roosevelt;
Favors a Building Program1
that Wou!ii Provide Eight
Capital Ships This Year. j
(By Review Leased Wire.) j
WASHINGTON. March 29. Appro
priations by Congress for eight new;
capital ships last year, double the num ;
ber proposed by the administrations1
jllve year navy program, were recom-i
nienueu oy Assistant necreiary uoose-i
velt, in concluding his -testimony be
fore the House Naval Committee. Sec-J
retary Daniels will appear tomorrow
as the last witness to be heard before i
the committee begins drafting the bill, j
His examination is expected to re-.
quire several days.
Mr. Roosevelt explained that recom
mendations for eight ships immediate-
1 . . ...........n.l V. i .. r,.i, o I 1 ! . i u' .1 nnd
1 , irjicniru 1 1 1 iiriomi.i i. .. .. uii.
those of the department. "I believe;
the government and private yards'
could take care of eight capital ships j
this year." he said. "I think it would
mean a great step for the moral effect '
upon the country and our tnternation-,
al relations. Germany's present ratej
is three ships a year, our program of,
three and one-fitth in five years would!
not quite catch tip. but would mean a I
gain. We would probably pr.ss Fravce. ;
with whom we are now neck and!
neck " I
Questioned about Japan's navy, Mr.
Roosevelt said Japan and Germany ! first of the bi gnat ional defense meas tm. r.ow oetore i onuress. De
were reported to have secret building : ures. began in the Senate today with comes a law.
funds nnd programs. Representative Republicans joining the Democrats in' imoralUaiion of the guard. arath.v
Farr of Pennsylvania asked how much ! expressing the hope that it mteht be'of i,s Members, toward tlu future of
stronger the American navv was than . disposed of as quickly as possible. ; the organization and almost Beligibie
the Japanese. i Senator Chamberlain, chairmam of attendance at drills and thinning
"That depends upon the zone of op-'thn niilitarv committee, introduced the are charged by the war d.-p-irt-
erations." replied the witness., Vif : measure, which is a substitute for the nient to be due to Adjt. Gen. Harris,
the fleet were kept apart we are about Hay bill, passed by the Houe and h" ls responsible for the pres
three to two. If the operations were made a lengthy address. When the ont condition of the guard. For over
in Japanese waters we are about equal ) bill bad been read, all other business j two ''' "f ar department has
Jppan probably would be superior in ! was laid aside to permit senators , own urging t.ov. Hunt to remove Har
home waters. If they attempted to, familiarize themselves with its pro-!'- 111 SP' of repeated requests
.. ti.: !.,., ..!..:...... . ; from the secretary of war. other mm-
ccmie itei iu- ritciui inc vuviii'u.-
would he reversed."
(Continued on Page 6),, '
CIRCUMSTANTIAL
TO
Senator Fall Takes
Rap at Wilson and
His Administration
New Mexico Senator Making
POINTS
Inspection of Conditions administration considers, has created
, . r , , w'11 V 0,,p ' ,lle most serious situations
Along tile Border. V 111 V IS- hich has confronted the State Depart
it Bisbee During the Day. iment since the outbreak of the war.
I The next step of the I'nited Slates
(By Review Leased Wir..) J authoritatively to have been de
17 .'. cided upon. I nless Germany, in reply
DOUGLAS. March 29.-Not two hun- ,0 ,he nqulry madp by , l.ni1e,,
dred Carranza troops remain in the states through Ambassador Gerard.
Casas Grandes and Ga.ena districts of
Chihuahua, according to ine statement
of I'nited Stales Senator A. It. Fall of
New Mexico, who said he had been so com bined in one general nole and sent
informed on good authority. to the German Foreign Office.
Senator Fall arrived here tonight I' is regarded as certain that the
from Hachita. N. M., In the course of I'nited States would not ' tfecept ex
an automobile tour from the border, plrtnatlons as satisfactory at least un-
All the Carranza soldiers might as
well he withdrawn for all thn eood
they are doing in aiding our men. They manner whether any value longer
made no attempt to stop Villa when could be attached to Germany's prom
he passed Casas Grandes in broad day- Ises.
light, less than a mile from the garri-' In the event of Germany disclaiming
yon." said Fall. "He had no more responsibility for the destruction the
than three hundred men with him at I'nited States will proceed with its in-
that lime. I have if from good author-
ity that he did not have a great many
more thnn that number when he at- of these boats was due to German tor- tions from the war department. In
tacked Columbus." pedoes. With such proof berore it. the less than a week, on Friday. Man h
Senator Fall said that he did not government probably would act 24, the adjutant general notified the
know where the Carranza troops from promptly. Officials refrain from dis- commanding othces of Companies A
western Chihuahua had been sent to. cussing what the nature of the action and 11 that their names had been
They had gone, via the Mexican Cen- would be. The very number of appar- placed on the unaligned list. "Laik
tral Railway, some south and others ently unwarned attacks which have of interest" was assigned as the rea
east. occurred recently is regarded hv the , son for this step, although Captain
"There are no two ways of thinking, administraiion a particularly sienifi -' Cnlley protested that he had fifty re
in my view. The I'nited State should rant. : emits ready to enlist and who wouht
have the use of the Mexican North- 5cmi of the eases, it was pointed tnect at the armory that evening 10
western Railroad from the Carranza out. bave occurred in localities where sign their enlistment paper. The
government without any reservation." there I sno possibility of a mine field order, bnwever. was nt rescinded.
Senator Fall bcored tbe aduiinistra-havine been laid, due to the depth of j Requests and suetestien thst v.
(Continued on Page 6 (Continued on Tage Three.) (Continued on page three)
SENSATIO
RESULT IN
OF AIT BILL
BEGINS IN
SENATE
Senator Chamberlain Intro
duces His Measure and
Makes Speech in Support of
It
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. March 29.
SENATE
M;et at noon.
Debate began on senate substi
tute for House army reorganiza
tion bill.
HOUSE
Met at noon.
Miscellaneous bills on the cal
endar considered.
Assistant Secretary Roosevelt
continued testimony on national
defense before Naval Committee.
SENATE
Adjourned at 5:28 to noon Thurs
day. HOCSE
Adjourned at 5:55 p. m. to noon
Thursday.
Democratic representa lives held
caucus at night on proposal for
government manufacture of war
munitions.
WASHINGTON, March 29.
Consid -
jeration of the army increase bill, the
I hmuuji.
Senator Chamberlain announced he
I (Continued on Page C)
EVIDENCE ALL
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. March 29. The ac
cumulation of circumstantial evidence
indicating that Germany has engaged
"I
pon a campaign of submarine war -
re which has no regard for the rights
'of American citizens traveling on mer-
(n ant ships of belligerent na
lions, th
J.kes some lenient to cause the
mair uruinmrin m i"sr --
ent convictions, the incidents will be
til time has shown that Germany has (
actually punished submarine com-
vextigaMon to determine to us own
satisfaction whether the destruction
MUCH
WT
it CHARGES WILL
COURT MARTIAL
Captain C V. Gully Was
Placed Under Techinical Ar
rest Following Publication
of Charges Against Harris.
NATIONAL GUARD IN
VERY POOR CONDITION
That Politics Were Played by
Adjutant General is One of
the Statements Accredited
to the Militia Officer.
(By Review Leased Wire)
PHOENIX. March 29. Captain
('. V. Giilley. until last week com
manding officer of Company A,
Arizona National Guard, was plac
ed under technical arrest today,
following the publication in the
morning paper of serious charges
ft&ainst Adjutant General Harris.
A courimartial and investigation
of Gulley's alleged conduct, unbe
coming an officer and prejudicial
to discipline will be held April 3
before six officers of the guard.
Galley, with five other officers
has been placed on the "unassign
ed list" prior to the publication of
the article, charging that Harris
is playing politics.
Hunt tonight issued an announce
men: he would be a candidal for
renomination.
j PHOENIX. March 29 In the face
i of a situation that may den and every
'citizen available for military service,
j Arizona is in the greatest liankt r of
losing her national guard organization.
Not only did the guarj fail to n:ea
I sure up tj the requirements of the
, federal law pertaining to the orau
: livd miUiia at ihv inspection ju.t
; ended, but plans of the general slaJT
'to continue it as a separate crgamza
ti' have to be abandoned if the
enced army ollicers. the governor
' steadfastly refused to do so. Now
, that federal aid is apparently abort
to be withdrawn, it is beiieved he w.I!
'still refuse to lot Harris go and will
1 let the guard pass toil' of existence,
i The discharge by Arljt. Gen. Harris
; of all the commissioned olficcrs cf
Companies A and B, . .atinnal Gi.srd
t of Arizona, and the practical i :ot.T-
ing out of four of the hve comp.iir'cs
in the Salt River valley at the very
. time when the guard may be needed
'almost any minute to take the field.
is causing a storm of protest s from
citizens of the camtal. While "apa-
: thy" and
lack of interest" is giv u
as the reason for
the dismissal of
'"""
;cera ami mustering
needed, it is charted that
this is not the real reason. All of the
oilicers discharged, it is said, bad been
frank to criticize the way the guard
wai handled at the time of the Clif
ton strike, and therein lies the ground
for their discharge. Their names
were placed on the "unassigued list",
a proceeding having no legal exist
ence whatever and not eveu mention
ed in the code. It is a new proceed
ing, whereby an officer is as affect ive-
i.. . i . . . r v. : .. . .1 . . 1 . 1.
.""ZZZ or had
resiuned.
The officer removed in this way
were Capt. C. V. Gulley. Jjeut. C. A.
Shamhart and Second Lieut. B. A.
Wilson of Company A: Capt. E. J.
Heialey. First Lieut. Harold Ilriggs
and Second Lieut Harold Hess of
ompany R. Companies A. B, C. and
D. it is understood, are to be muster
ed out and "reorganized."
On Saturday. Marcn IS. the ad
jutant general issued an order to ail
commanders to at one recruit thrir
companies to war strength. Prs
reports to the contrary, this order
was Issued from the office of the
adjutant general, without any instr.ic-
