'V1 8Z
TIDINGS'
'Ashland Grows While Llthla Flows'
City of Sunshine and Flowers
Ashland. Oregon, Lilliiu Springs
"Oregon's Famous Spa'
VOL. XL
ASHLAND, OREGON, THURSDAY, MARCH 30 1916
.Vl'MBKK 8!)
Buy Home Products and Western
Goods At Home is Slogan of Week
Next week, from April 3 to 9 In
clusive has been proclaimed Western
Club Woman's Consumers' Week by
the governors of the northwestern
states, and throughout the west' club
women are laying plans for Its ob
servance. Under the active management of
the Civic Improvement Club, Consum
ers' Week will be universally ob
served in Ashland. All of the mer
chants will display vestern-made
Company to Develop
Emigrant Coal Mine
C. A. Shapman and T. B. Weller,
representing a company which has
the finances to handle a big proposl-1 to make arrangements with the dedi
tion, havo leased several acres of j cation celebration committee regard
land from J. J. Murphy near the Ash- Ing the immense fireworks spectacle
land lithia spring and will attempt
the development of a coal mine
Messrs. Chapman and Weller are ex
perienced coal miners and believe
. that they have an Immense proposi
tion In hand after carefully going
over the property, which they declare
to be heavily underlaid with coal.
They expect to commence operating
wthin twenty days, their terms re
quiring the commencement of activity
In sixty days.
The company behind these men Ib
said to be amply financed. The de
velopment of a coal mine near Ash
land would mean a great deal to the
city, If nothing more than the saving
made In coal bills by the use of do
mestic coal.
Several years ago a tunnel was
sunk for a couple of hundred feet
into the. hillside about a quarter of
a mile above the Gillette spring on
Emigrant creek. Good indications of
excellent coal were obtained, but
water was encountered, the men in
charge did not understand the proper
pumping of it, the money of the local
capitalists who backed the mine be
gan to run out, and the mine was
abandoned. Some of the remains of
the shackB and machinery are there
yet.
Near Medford, on Roxy Ann, a coal
mine has been worked for the past
year or two and a considerable
amount of fairly good coal taken out.
First Half Taxes
Delinquent April 1
You must pay the first half of your
taxes before April 5 or It will cost
you 1 per cent a month Interest. Af
ter October 5, If it Is not paid, 5 per
cent penalty beside the Interest will
be added.
Two things don't forget:
Pay the first half of your taxes be
fore April 5.
Register before April 18, or you
. are shut out from voting at the pri
mary. The sheriff's office reports tax cot
lections, Including yesterday, to have
been $146,280, $35,570 of which was
paid yesterday by the Southern Pa
cific Company as the first half of Its
operating taxes.
The total sent up for collection for
1915, now being collected, was $778,
000, and but one-sixth of It has been
paid to date. The collections are
$45,000 short of the same date last
year. That Is accounted for by the
new law In effect this year, which
does not allow a penalty to be added
until next October. True, the first
half of the tax, if not paid by April
5, draws 1 per cent a month Interest,
but only for the time it runs delin
quent; if paid by May 5 only 1 per
cent Interest would be paid, and If by
June 5 only 2 per cent, etc. This is
much easier on those who run delin
quent than the old law, and some are
not hustling hard for their tax dues.
Phone news Items, to the Tidings,
Fruitgro
wers Will
Make Decision
The fruitgrowers of the Ashland
district will meet at 2 o'clock Satur
day afternoon at the Commercial
Club to make a decision regarding
the acceptance of the government
Bureau of Markets agency ilah as
described here by Mi1. Basset two'
weeks ago. This is an Important de
cision and every fruitgrower should
Attend the meeting. ';
goods In the windows and will talk
home buying of western-made goods.
On one day, probably Saturday,
April 8, a home products dinner will
be served which will be something
well worth while. Every article on 1
the table will be a western product
which can be bought at home.
And above all efforts of business!
men and organizations the club ladles
are arousing the "consumers" them -
selves to a spirit of co-operation In
the project.
Fireworks Expert
Visits Ashland
W. E. Priestley, "fireworks ex
pert," arrived in Ashland Wednesday
which Is planned as a part of the July
celebration. Mr. Priestley was super
intendent of fireworks at the Panama
exposition at San Francisco and the
Ashland committee was able to get
Into touch with him through Mr.
Frohba h, who represented this dis
trict at the exposition.
Mr. Priestley recently returned
from Honolulu, where he staged the
fireworks at the Hawaiian Mid-Winter
Festival. Both going and coming
from Honolulu he states the lights on
me snip were extinguished and the
portholes shrouded as 'a precaution -
ary measure against Overman raiders.
He sailed from Vancouver on a Brit
ish ship.
Since returning from Honolulu he
has been In Los Angeles and San
Diego and says the weather down
there is abominable and that Los
Angeles was visited by a severe hail
storm last Thursday. He was de
lighted with the beautiful weather
which he met In Ashland.
Gold Hill Cement
Company Active
The Beaver Portland Cement com
pany of Gold Hill is actively pre
paring to open a plant for the pro
duction of cement and limestone
flour which will have an output that
'will rival the biggest plants on the
Coast. A complete plant Is now In
r
the process of construction at Gold
Tim o . iimoetnno no.... to w !
Hill, a new limestone quarry Is be
ing opened and a railroad spur built
to it.
A tentative contract has been en
tered into with the California-Oregon
Power company for power with which
to operate this plant. It will carry
a large payroll, for it will employ a
large number of men In its several
departments.
The Beaver Portland Cement com
pany Is one of the Institutions that
will help to build up the commercial
Interests of southern Oregon very
substantially. It will be a permanent
development In a field of inexhausti
ble resources, so far as raw material
Is concerned.
Irrigation to be
Talked at Talent
An Important meeting of the Tal
ent Farmers' Club will be held this
Thursday evening at Talent for tie
purpose of discussing and considering
several important matters directly
connected with the question of Irri
gation In that district. The govern
ment engineers' report and recom
mendations will be carefully consid
ered in all their phases. Proposals
and plans from parties who will agree
to supply water to the district when
formed will be presented and consid
ered. There will be a feature of news
in this part of the program.
Commercial Club
Meets Monday
The Commercial Club meets In reg
ular monthly session next Monday
evening, and several Important mat
ters are slated which require the at
tention and will Interest the mem
bers. ' The club has several active
committees at work and Is better or
ganized than for a number of years
for 'getting; r'esul'ti.. Meeting , con
venes at 8 o'clock sharp." ' .". .
!. ; . . : ' j ' 1
PIUXTA.UXTIOV. 4
Whereas, the week of April $
3rd to 9th has been set aside by $
proclamation of the governors $
of Oregon, Washington and $
Idaho as home products week, ?
S wherein it Is desirable that S
S home products be properly dls- S
!laea u mercnanis ana gener- s
aIly I)ur('na9ed by consumers,
therefore, ?
- H- John80n. mayor of J
' the clty of ABnland. do hereby
! designate and set aside the week S
of April 3rd to 9th as home S
products week for the city of S
4 Ashland, and hereby request $
? the merchants of Ashland to es- $
peclally display, during that ?
? period, home and state prod- ?
ucts, to the end that the atten- S
b Hon of the public may be gener- S
A ally called to them. Also I urge S
$ that the people during that S
? week make It a point to pur- 4
? chase home and state products $
insofar as possible. $
0. II. JOHNSON, Mayor.
j TJfaAl AY A Wlaif XJfit A
"ieQIOla "3 VOlC
$250,000 R.R. Bonds
Prospects of a railroad to the fam
ous Blue Ledge mines, tapping a
wealth of agricultural, timber and
j mining country and eventually a rail -
road extended clear down the Klam-
' ath river to Eureka, is stirring Med-
ford as no activity ot recent years has
aroused tnat city
As a result of agitation for a rail-1
road to the Blue Ledge country, a'
proposition was maae to tne raiiroaa
committee of the Medford Commer -
clal Club by S. S. Bullls, owner of the
electric railroad to Jacksonville from
Medford and one of the biggest own -
ers of the Blue Ledge mines, where-
by if the city of Medford would vote
$250,000 bonds for the construction neve Ashland park Ideally situated
of a railroad from Jacksonville, fit- j for such a pageant and are trying to
teen miles toward Blue Ledge, he arrange for the presentation In Ash
would guarantee the completion of land park They ask the co-opera-the
road and would-buy the road con- tion of Ashland and want this affair
structed by Medford at the end of five ' to be attended by the whole valley.
years.
A U'oll-nHonrlod macs mnnHncr wo a i
.,.,.... . . f . event, distinctly of southern Oregon. Tuesday night and elected the fol-
held in Medford Monday n ght and , , . A r, , i , " .
.. ... . , similar to the Portland Rose Show, lowing teachers for the coming year.
the proposition accorded an enthusl- ,, . . ,!.... . , . .
' IT ,. M I Pendleton Round-up and other dls- All but four of the present teaching
astic reception. Unqual f ed approv-1 .. .. . . . . I ,. . , , ,
. j v I .itinctive entertainments. i force applied again and were again
al was expressed by a number of I , ,
speakers, Including several prominent1 The plan were heartily received elected:
hankers nnrt Inwvpra and nnlv nno
an
or two conservative notes sounded.
The gathering passed a resolution
asking the city council to place the
proposition before the people at a
special election. If the bonds are
voted the handling of them will' be
put In the hands of a railroad com-
mission, probably of three members,
The construction of a road from j mnch enjoyed,
the valley into the rich timber, min- I The eubject, "The Results of the
ing and agricultural country means a ' Efforts of the Parent-Teacher Asso
great deal for Medford and the en- clatlons," was ably discussed by Mrs.
tire valley. The construction of the W. W. Caldwell, Mrs. Chattin, Mrs.
road clear tflrough to the coast, as
seems to be an eventual certainty,
means a great deal more, giving the i
valley an outlet which would mean
greatly reduced freight rates, and
would open up a world of possibillr
ties.
The people of the entire valley are !
actively interested In Medford'a op-j
portunity and will watch develop-
ments with intense interest.
Royal Rogue Sport
Pictures Attract
Oregon State Biologist William ' Under the auspices of and for the
Finley, who is touring the east with : benent of the Ashland schools the
slides of Oregon gabie and lecturing Elson art exhibit will be shown at
on the Oregon system of game pres-' the Ashland armory on Wednesday
ervatlon by education, writes the fol-'and Thursday, April 5 and 6. Orig
lowing In a letter to a Portland inally the dates were announced for
friend: I the fith and 7th, but since the latter
"It just happened that I was show-j conflicts with the band dance the
Ing these moving pictures of angling ' exhibit will be staged on Wednesday
in Oregon the other day to a lot of j and Thursday.
sportsmen. Three of these follows,
who have angled In most of the fam-
ous streams in this part of the coun- 1
try and who have plenty of money 1
to travel on, told me that they were
thinking strongly of going to Ore
gon next summer to try Rogue river,
When they saw the picture's I have of
Kelly and Putman wading the Rogue
up to their necks and fighting to
land some of these game steelheads
they yelled like youngsters and de
cided forthwith to gp to Oregon next
summer." . . .
, TldJngs .'lFpr Sale' .di re active
tjttle. real estate, lalesmei.
S (X)XSIMEKS' WEKK. S
t To Commercial Club Members $
j and Others:
J Without doubt one of the $
$ most important matters con-
j fronting the people of the Pa- ?
$ clflc count today is the problem $
.$ of getting more Industries. We $
? ne,ed to retain within our ownS
district the cost of manufacture 4
? as well as the price of the raw S
f material which we produce. To
this en:l ve should always gve 8
the preference to western-made S
: s goods, the nearer home they ?
J s are made the better. The gov- $
$ ernors of several of the west- ?
$ ern states, Oregon included,
have set aside the week of April
3rd to 9th as a special Consum-
a, ers' rf'eek, and you are earnest-
a, y requested to carry out the ?
s gpirlt of the occasion by featur-
? jng western-made goods in every
s possible way during those days.
a, v n n smith -
' '. Pn.ifl.nt .uiiimi mmmprclnl .
Club.
Civic Club Hears
Pageant Plans
A great deal of interest was taken
In the program and business that
, rflnlB hefnie the Civic Imnrovenipnt
i cib at their regular meeting last'"-'"1, the state 8('1100'8 10- tha reda -
Thnrwlav nftprnnnn ira Mimrtv
preBdent of the Greater Medford
club, and Mrs. Schleffelin of Med
ford were guests. The visiting ladies
brought a novel project before the
- i,,!, The nhvslpai culture class of
: jigdforfl. which has 150 members,
' nnv(, beP11 driiiinp, tor a bi pageant
and have manv folk-lore dances. Mav
I)0e ats an(j an out-of-door nlav
i "The Heart of the World," which
they have no suitable place to stage
i Medford. The Medford ladies be -
Tt Ib tinner? tn mnlre thfa nn nnniinl
uib nsniauu emu aim u cuiiiiiiiue-
."
Dy me Asniana ciud ana a commiiiep
club and to make further plans.
Tentative anouncement by the Med-
ford ladles was to the effect that
about May 15 would be the most suit-
able date. v
Mrs. C. B. Wolf and Mrs. H. Pro-
vost rendered vocal solos which were
Ussher, Mrs. Card and Superintend
ent Briscoe Some very interesting
and profitable thoughts were ad
vanced.
The bird house exhibit and Prl
contest has been set for April 11
Many of the boys In the manual train
ing department of the schools are
busy at the work and some will have
several blr'd houses. The bird houses
will be sold if the owners wish.
Picture Exhibit
Dates Changed
The purpose of the exhibit Is to
raise money for educational pictures
for the schoolrooms. A charge of 10
cents will be made.
A program, readings, drills and
music, will be given each evening.
Exhibit will be open Thursday and
Friday afternoons from 2 till 5 and
evenings from 7:30 to 10. Programs
each evening at 8:30.
George L. Pervlne of St. Johns,
Ore., Inventor of a vaenum fireplace,
want to establish a factory.
A new: $30,000 busIosM block has
been..startd at Bn4, Or. .""
Every Man, Woman, Child and
Auto Wanted in Park Sunday
On next Sunday, providing It Is a around the fountains, the croquet
clear day, at the hour of 3 o'clock, courts and tennis grounds should be
Chester Stevenson will take an Im-! ,,'l'll',d. the lower drive and tho
. , ... . ' high drive shou'd lo shown with,
niense panoramic picture of I.ltlna , ,
' numbers of autos, nun in fact the In
Patk. The view will be taken with ; tenti(m , t0 B,,ow Alihland ark Bg jt
a special camera and will be a mag- j will be on a typical hot summer Sun
nificent piece of photography nich as ' day. Everyone In Ashland shout I
has never before been attempted , make It a point to be somewhere In
upon such a s;'ale In Ashland. The Llthia Talk next Sunday afternoon
picture will be used for advertising at 3 o'clock. If you hnven't yet visit-
purposes. A crowd of several hun -
dred people are wanted to throng
0. & ;c. Land Grant
Bills in House
The bills disposing of the Oregon-
California railroad land grant lands
I In Oregon are now In tho house of
representatives at the national cnpl -
tal. Suit-committees made several
i chnngPB from the original Chamber
lain-Ferris bill, which Include the
method of land classifications, plans
for the sale of timber, disposition of
the proceeds of the sales of timber
end lands, and the settlement of the
claims under the executory contracts.
I'nder the sub-conimittpp plan the
status of the executory contracts will
be determined In the courts; tho pro-
I01'3 r thfi K,pnt llllllls wl" ,,e dl"
vldcd with counties getting 40 per
: nation rtind 4U, nml the general gov-
cril1,,fint 10 )er ('ent
The lands protecting the city wa-
101 8ne"8 816 wllnnol' lrom oisposi-
tion for two. years, and the unpaid
; taxes are t0 ue i,a,(1 Immediately
from the federal treasury. One hun
dred thousand dollars Is appropriated
for classifying the lands.
Jackson county Is vitally interested
1 in this bill as the amount accruing to
! the county would amount to over
three million dollars
Teachers For Next
Year Are Elected
The Ashland school hoard met
nign hchuui r. a. hiuuiu, u
"'fiu o, ,,UUi . .
HaHslnger, Laura McCormlck.
1 ,,
I Helen Van Housen, Giles M. Ruch,
j Delmnr Harmon, Irene Rlnghelm,
, Charlotte Kennard, Vera Moffat, L.
j T. Hodge.
Junior high school Gertrude En-
K,e. lla M- Mycres. Alice M. Thomp-
80n. Irfine Johnson, Irma James, Clar-
Ibel Morehouse, Hazel M. Clark, Ver
non Pyland, Eva C. Poley
East school S. A. McGavern, Nel
lie B. Ross. Margaret Powers, Loralne
Johnson. Bessie Dunham, Myrtle
Johnson, Alice Palmer, Nellie Ma
thews.
R. R. Hutchinson, Anna B. Harris,
Elfrioda Merz of the high school and
Mrs Dawson Foster of the llliilor
: h,Rh whoo, dld not apP,y. The hoard
therefore lias four vacancies to fill.
Walks Head on
Into S. P. Train
Thomas DeLong, a member of the
Olympla Walters' and Bartenders'
I'nion, walked head on Into n pas
senger train with Engineer Joe Poor
in. the front cab, with disastrous re
sults, near Ilornbrook last Sunday
night. Repeated tooting of the whis
tle and the glare of the headlight
failed to sway the gentleman from
his purpose, which seemed to be to
walk down the middle of the track
regardless of little obstacles like
forty-mile-nn-hour trains.
DeLonj; either hud a quart on his
hip or in his Insldo, one of the two,
according to connoisseurs of the smell
of whls'itey who helped gather him
up, Ills leRB were broken In several
places, a bad gash on the head and
other Injuries resulted. He Is now
In the Yreka hospital.
Twenty-five out of thirty Indus
trie on the lower Columbia aJe In op
eration, employing 10,000 men.
A million-dollar shipbuilding plant
Is planned for Llnnton, Ore -
- Eugene has let a contract for a
Bchoor house to cost $13,492. ;
: ed the park you shouid. If you have,
I you will lie there anyway.
Immencc Increase
In Freight Traffic
The Southern Pacific company in
i making heroic efforts to overcome)
, the car shortage which lias Htlrrnrl
1 up 'such a row esp.-clally In the Ium
ber Industry in the Northwest. Tim
railroad's explanation of tho short
age Is an unprecedented sudden In
crease in traffic and a largo voluma
of cars held at the At'antlc seaboard
because of lnck of boats. The South
ern Pacific sends out Hip following;
figures regarding the Increase In
freight traffic:
There were 1233 more cars loaded
In Oregon by the Southern Pacific In
February or this year than during;
the same month a year avo repre-
; sentlng an average of fil more car
a dav. In February, 1916, there wero
44S7 enrs loaded, as agnliiBt 36,r3
cars In 19ir, and 3662 In 1914.
i nese ngurcs cover only the com
mercial freight and do not Include
the company business.
An analysis of the figures shows
the increase In the principal com
modities as follows:
Hay, 137 cars; lumber, 800; gen-
j eral merchandise, 1 61 ; potatoes, 69;
wood, 140. This Incrense furnished
an adequate excuse for the car short
age, which the railroad Is exerclslnft
effort to remedy.
Two-thirds of the increase Is dua
to the revival of the lumber Indus
try, due mainly to renewal of build
ing operations throughout the nation.
As timber Is the greatest natural re
source of Oregon, activity In lumber
ing always presages prosperity for the
state.
Fish Hatchery
At Butte Falls
Master Fish Warden R. E. Clanton
of Portland was up In the Butte Falla
region last week arranging for the
establishment of a fish hatchery on
Ginger creek near Butte Falls.
Buildings will be constructed later
on, but at present the fry will be
hatched at Elk creek and be feed on
the Butte creek feeding grounds. The
people of Butte Falls are lending
their assistance in building the plant
and co-operating In every possible
way.
A flume 1600 feet long, 3 feet wldo
and 3 feet dpep will be built to carry
water from Big Butte to overflow
about 20 acres, making the feeding;
ground. The Butte Falls citizens
contributed L',6 days of labor and 10
days labor with teams, which will be
the shine as a cn.sh contribution of
$4.r.n or $.100 as far as tho state Is
concerned.
Mr. Clanton has appointed J. W.
Ben-Inn of Medford as fish rulturlst
In charge of the nutte Falls plant.
Mr. Burrian has hud many years' ex
perience, both with the I'nlted States
bureau of hatcheries and tho sfato
hatchery, and his appointment Is very
satisfactory to local anglers.
Columbia beach, opposite Vancou
ver, Is to be Improved for a su miner
resort.
A Little Speed
Costs Ten Dollars
C. A. Dell has finished the over- '
hauling of the big sixty-horsepower
Peerless car which was formerly the
property of Smith, Emery & Co. and
took It out for a trial spin Wednes
day. Apparently he did not have the
carburetor tuned to low speed and
burned up the pavement quite consid- ;
erable, according to those who hap-', .
pened to be on the streets at the .
time, Some good, citizen swore put, ,
a complaint and Mr Bell parted wU,h t ,
ten dollars this morning In Recorder j,;
Gillette's court.
'.? 'id
. .'.Jl ..
1 Ml 'U
