m li '
I & i; s Ly -v Vu U v v 1 1 cPaa I W HI v t .. H
Kl nearby, S27.75$28.25; June and N W - . WEATHER Utah: Tonight and JflH '
later, $26.75 $27.50. . LJ ' " . J ' 10 '
II Friday Generally Fair; Frost Tonight. Eft i
a " FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. x W
f Frty""Xth Year-No-m rice: Five Cents. - " . OGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, MARCH 30, 1916. '. Enter eecon cu Matter at th. Po,tofce. 0d. tjux "i IS' !
I T jjlj
I Villa Slips Through Cordon of American
- and Garranza Troops; Long Chase Ahead 1
J -..- , illll li
f PERSHING HAS BEEN USING MEXICAN
RAILROAD INSOUTH FOR TEN DAYS
Jine Used Daily Between Casas Grandes for Transporting
Troops and Supplies Twelve U. S. Soldiers Injured in
Wreck Near Musica Station, One Dies of Injuries
Eight New Aeroplanes to Be Sent Immediately
to Front Horses Being Bought and Sent
to Pershing American Citizens and
i Germans Accused of Aiding
Villa in Getting Supplies.
i
I
San Antonio, Texas, March 30. Fighting three days ago
1 between Villa troops and a detachment of Carranga's forces
i near Guerrero was reported today by General Pershing to Gen
eral Funston. No details of the engagement were given, but
General Pershing said Villa's men were moving south.
It was believed Villa was with them.
Columbus, N. M., March 30. Amer
ican troops have been using the Mex
1 Ico Northwestern railway Jor a dls
l tance of about 140 miles between
Cacas Grandes and Madeira daily for
I about ten days to transport troops
and supplies, according to Walter
Warren, a negVo trooper In troop A.,
Tenth cavalry, who reached here to
day. Warren who has been Invalided at
Fort Bliss, asserted that twelve men
were Injured In the wreck on the road
near Musica station, March 21 which
f resulted In the death of Trooper Hud
nell. Warren suffered crushed hips
and internal Injuries. The train he
said was carrying several cars loaded
with horses and troops and was
wrecked on a "shoo fly." Warren
said that the other ten Injured men
: )' are being cared for at the field hos
pital at Casas Grandes.
" "Washington, March 35. Immediate
purchase of eight aeroplanes to be
sent at onceto Brigadier-General
i Pershing, w,as authorized today by
the war department
A special corps of signal oftlcers
has been organized here to inspect
and teBt the machines. The board
i will be composed of Captain Vlrginlus
' E. Clark, head of the department of
' motors of the aviation school at San
I Diego, Cal., Lieutenant Thomas de W.
Milling, head instructor at the San
Diego school, "who nre now en route
here from the Pacific and Lieutenant
B. Q. Jones of the signal corpB.
Reports from Major-General Fuu
ston lay stress upon the need of more
flyers with the advanco columns in
I Mexico. Of the eight machines which
I accompanied the expedition two have
heen destroyed and' four others have
' been temporarily disabled, leaving
only two in service.
Portable Machine Shop to Be Sent.
j A portable machine shop to repair
damaged aeroplanes on the field has
been sent Into Mexico.
'i More horses are also to be sent to
General Pershing. Several hundred
. are being bought in California and an
j estimate for 200 more has been sent
to congress. Every cavalry horse In
j '. the army at remount stations has
j been sent to the border.
Americano Supplying Villa.
5 r Department of Justice agents, fol
') lowing a trail which is said to lead
,, I to American sources of supply for Vll
3! la, have uncovered evidence In New
York and other cities which, they be
a Neve when fully developed will fully
Justify the charge.
M The allegation often made that Vil
:sk la has received aid from German
Jl' sources also Is being Investigated but
sJ no statement has been made as to
VW "whether any evidence has been
'ound.
The denartment is disinclined to
J act on Its evidence that American
m . money and supplies have gone to
1 Villa while It Is in the stage that
af "Mil involve only subordinates, it
! intends to pursue the trail, if possible,
to the men higher up.
Thirty Days Supplies.
Major Elliott said he has already
shipped from El Paso supplies Buffi
dent to feed the expeditionary for
ces in Mexico for thirty days. Part
ol theBe supplies already is at Casas
Grandes, part is Hearing the field
base and the remainder will be there
before long, the major said.
Merchants of El Paso and. its vi
cinity are besieging the army for con
' bacts. Thoy offer to ship unlimited
supplies south, the government to as
J Mirae the risk. To all of them Major
ill Elliott replies that they arc free to ,
II transport stuff to Casas Grandes, butj
""in do bo at their own riBK j."j
are told however, that the field quar-
: termaater will probably purchase
li ElJch goods if thoy reach their destl-
Jl nation.
m Bell Confers With Garcia.
M El Paso, Texas, March 30. General
111 11, General Gavira and Mexican
n Conaul Garcia held av conference in
f J the Mexican consulate today relative
ll to the movement ot supplies.over the
II Mexican Northwestern railway. -M-
JMi toward General Bell refused to ais-
I ss the conference saying he was
iflr er-orders to maintain secrecy.
4 .,1 Paao. Texas, March 30. Briga-
m JMleneral John J. Pershing bos pro-
m W6a an relentleBS campaign in the
Qit for Francisco Villa a chaso that
M,
may last for many weeks before the
fleeing bandit Is run to earth. This
Information was gleaned here today
from military men who made no se
cret of their belief that Villa had
slipped through the cordon of Car
rnnzistn and American troops.
American officials said today they
had no news as to the whereabouts
of Villa but that the troops of te de
facto government were aiding the
American soldiers in trying to round
up thp brigand. The last of tho in
formation was that Villa was moving
through the Santa Maria valley. Once
among his peon friends who would
give the American troops misleading
information regarding his wherea
bouts, Villa might escape detection
for a long time.
Danger of Betrayal.
Ranchers from the Chihuahua dis
trict said that when it became known
that there was price upon Villa's head
dead or alive, the bandit would be In
constant danger of betrayal. Whether
the American troops have made It
known that there is a reward for Vil
la has been not learned here, but It
is assumed that the word has been
spread about among tho peon popu
loMrm nc thn Amprimn soldiers move
about from place to place.
Roving bands of Villlstas are re
ported everywhere in the region ot
the Santa Maria valley but apparent
ly the American flying columns have
not come In contact with them.
General Bell Awaits Orders.
Brigadier-General George J. BelL
Jr., commander of the troops at Fort
Bliss, awaited today orders to ship
supplies to Mexico over the Mexico
Northwestern railway. Supplies con
sisting of gasolene, forage, canned
goods and flour will go forward as
soon as tho orders are received.
Meanwhile Major Elliott, depart
ment quartermaster, Is moving sup
plies In great bulk to Columbus, N.
M. where they are carried In truck
trains over the Mexican desert to the
army base below Casas Grandes. Ten
carloads were shipped to Columbus
early today while ten motor trucks
were also sent to the army base
there. Twenty-seven more motor
trucks will go forward late today to
Columbus.
Columbus to Continue a3 Base.
Army officers hero believe that Co
lumbus will be continued as an aux
lllsry base for the army in Mexico.
They point out that no great reliance
can be placed on the Mexican North
western railway as a sole line of
communication because of its physical
condition and lack of ability to carry
heavv tralnloads of supplies.
Three companies of the engineers
department are working to keep the
rond leading south from Columbus to
the army base In Mexico in good con-'
dltlon. x , . .,
The first supplies w db uem.
rail to General Pershing's columns
are expected to be forwarded today
from Juarez following the permission
granted by General Carranza for the
uso of tho Northwestern railroad.
Army Officials Disappointed.
While army officials hero did not
conceal their disappointment over the
first chief's refusal to permit full
tralnloads to enter Mexico under
jAmerlcan military guard they were
visibly relieved at the prospect ol
using the railroad in even n limited
Thero has been no question hero
for some time that the transporta
tion problem was one of the most seri
ous faced by General Funston.
Stories of Soldiers.
' The stories of soldiers returning
!from the front taken in conjunction
i ...ii. t-hn, minxdert admissions by tho
military authorities, confirmed the be
lief that the motor truck system had
Tiroven inadequate and that some bet
ter way of provisioning General
Pershing's forces must be found very
qUAnxfety is now mainly centered on
what can be hoped for from tho lim
ited and rather dilapidated equip
ment of tho Mexico Northwestorn
railroad. For some time a schedule
of only one train In two days has
been maintained between Juarez and
Casas Grandes. The distance Is 1G8
miles and tho trip Is made In any
thing from 12 to 20 hours. A heavilj
loaded freight train is expected to
take longer than this. ...
1 One important question upon which
. the army officials here are very anx
ious to obtain some light Is exactly
what interpretation will be placed by
the Mexican officials on General Car
ranza's Instructions that supplies
must bo shipped In the ordinary man
ner as commercial freight. If this
Is to mean that freight will only be
forwarded on the regular trains the
amount of supplies to reach General
Pershing's base will be very small.
Interest In Chase Revised.
While the railroad situation has
temporarily overshadowed the actual
pursuit of Villa, interest In the chase
was revived today by reports that
Instead of being far to the south, as
was generally supposed, he was still
hovering In the region around Naml
qulpa. The last word from the front was
the statement by Colonel Dodd that
four days previously, Villa was report
ed In the Santa Maria Valley, mov
ing toward Santa Caterina. No town
of the name of Santa Caterina ap
pears on any available maps of Chi
huahua but there Is a Terrazas ranch
of that name, some miles east of El
Valle, one of the temporary bases
of tho American expedition. This re
port considerably mystified American
observers here as It would locate
Villa some forty miles northeast of
Namiqulpa instead of twice that dis
tance to the south, where all previ
ous reports have placed him.
llt-i niiiw!nn Purciiri;
T Ilia W.VHHllia fc-.ww.w.
The explanation which is generally
acoepted here is that Villa has adopt
ed a time honored plan of deceiving
his pursuers. He Is believed to have
scattered his forces Into several dif
ferent bands. Each band travels in
n different direction, dispensing the
Information that the chief fugitive Is
with It. As the majority of the peons
are believed to be In sympathy with
Villa, false information is probably
the most bountiful article supplied to
the American pursuers.
In the absence of any definite in
formation, there is little room left for
anything but speculation but Amer
icans here who are not only well ac
quainted with Mexico but know Villa
himself and his habits of mind, are
unshaken in their conviction that he
is In full flight to the southeast.
They point out that the district
around Parral Is the logical -place for
him to make to, as he has thousands
of sympathizers there and the con
stitutionalist government is almost
without authority except in the heavi
ly garrisoned towns.
Persistent Calm In Chihuahua.
The persistent calm which has
reigned over northern Chihuahua for
the last two weekB has created a feel
ing of optimism In some circles here,
which is strongly In contrast with the
pessimism which was general when
the American flag was first carried
over the border. While it Is felt that
the crisis la still far from past, many
Americans who left Mexico after tho
raid on Columbus aro returning to
thPir old homes satisfied that no se
rious outbreak against foreigners is
on the horizon.
New Diaz Revolution.
Washington, March. 30. Advic-es on
the nature and extent of tho new
revolutionary movement said to be
led by Felix Diaz In southern Mexico
continue to conflict as to facts. Dip
lomatic dispatches today from Euro
pean legations In the Mexican capi
tal said the movement ltd by Diaz
himself was assuming formidable pro
portions and was distinctly anti-American.
On the other hand government
investigators have reported they had
good reason to believe Felix Diaz Is
not In Mexico at all but hiding in tho
United States, probably In New Or
leans. Vague Reports of Clash.
Columbus, N. M March 30. No re
ports of any sort were received at
the army base here today from the
American army in Mexico. There
was a vague report In Columbus that
Carranza's troops and Villa's band
had clashed at Santa. Tomas, but Ma
jor Sample, commanding the army
base, said he had heard nothing re
garding it.
JJ
GERMAN OFFICER
UNDER ARREST
Head of Taucher Arms Com
pany in New York, Repre
senting Krupp Gun Works
Charged With Conspiracy.
New York, "March 30 Captain Hans
Tauschor, hUBband of Johanna GadskI,
tho opera singer, and said to be an
officer in the German navy, was ar
rested today by special agents of tho
department of Justice on a warrant
charging him with being concerned
in an alleged conspiracy to blow up
the "Wei land canal In Canada,
Tauschor, the federal authorities
said, is head of the Tauscher Arms
company of this city and representa
tive of the Krupp gun works in this
country. His arrest was brought
about it was stated through disclos
ures made by Horst von der Goltz,
alias Brldgman Taylor, who was
brought to thlB country a day or two
ago to bo examined as to what ho
knew concerning alleged German
plots. " , , ,.
Tauscher was arralgnod beforo a
United States commissioner, denied
tho charge and was held in $25,000
ball.
A
DEMANDS PLACED
BEFORE ROADS
General Managers of One
Hundred Eighty Railway
Systems Must Decide by
April 29.
UNIONS FEEL JUSTIFIED
Nearly 400,000 Engineers,
Firemen and Trainmen
Unite in Plea for Eight
hour Day.
New York, March 30. Eastern rail
road managers replied today to the
demands of their employes for an
eight-hour day and higher rates for
overtime work by submitting proposi
tions of their own for discussion-. The
demands- of the employes are not re
fused neither is a demand made by
the railroad managers for an accept
ance of their own proposals. These
are submitted for consideration in the
negotiations that are expected to fol
low. "What the railroads ask for Is an
open door," their reply states.
The reply was sent today to the of
ficials of the four brotherhoods Im
mediately after receipt of the em
ployes demands.
New York, March 30. The de
mauds of nearly 400,000 locomotive
engineers, firemen and trainmen were
presented to the general managers of
the several railroad companies In
volved at their headquarters in dif
ferent parts of the country today. The
employes who belong to the so-called
Big Four unions ask for an eight hour
day without reduction In pay and time
and a half for over time. The rail
roads have until April 29 to reply.
It Is understood" that the railroads
have already made a tentative an
swer which amounts to a conditional
refusal that leaves the way for fur
ther negotiations. The demands of
the men went to the Wheeling and
Lake Erie railroad yesterday and the
eight-hour day proposal was re
fused. The position of the unions is ex
plained In a statement by the execu
tive committee of the adjustment
boards which has charge of the sub
mission of the demands today,
I l: r- i l..-ltAr4
uuiuiiti rcci wu&kincu.
The statement says:
"In making the demand for the
eight-hour day the unions feel them
selves Justified believing that trains
can he managed so that the 100
miles required of a railroad man per
day can bo put Inside of eight hours.
As th9 train service Is now, single
crew engines In tho switching service
on which only one crew works In the
twenty-four hours are often compelled
to work from ten to sixteen hours a
day. It Is Injustice such as this that
the railroad unions want ended.
"We will submit our demands all
over the United States. Then we
will attend to our regular routine
work until the end of thirty days giv
en the railroads to consider our de
mands when we will return to receive
tho reply of the railroad companies.
We will ask the general managers to
discuss the question through their
general managers' committee. Our
aim is to open negotiations on our de
mands and we have no Intention of
talking strike to the railroad or sub
mitting an ultimatum."
Arrange For Meeting.
Arrangements already have been
made here for a meeting' of the repre
sentatives of the unions and railroad
managers of the Erie, the New Jer
sey Central and the New York Cen
tral today.
Chicago, March 30. The demands
presented today by representatives of
the so-called Big Four trainmen's un
ion iuvolve one hundred and eighty
rnilway systems with 248,000 miles of
right-of-way exclusive of terminals
and yards. In tho western territory
there are 100 railroads with 138,000
mileage, In the eastern territory, sixty
railroads with 63,000 mileage, and in
the southeastern territory twenty rail
roads with 47,000 mileage.
-oo
STRIKERS ARE TOLD
TORETURNTOWORK
London, March 30, 11: B0 a, m. Aft
er an Investigation of tho grievances
of tho men who have quit work in the
Glasgow district, the Council of tho
Amalgamated Society of Engineers
decided today that tho strike in six
Clyde shops was unconstitutional and
called on tho men to return to work.
Tho council points out that tho
strike Is In contravention of tho mu
nitions of war net.
Two Socialist speakers were arrest
ed this morning for Inciting muni
tions workers on tho Clyde strike.
rn
NINE MINERS ENTOMBED.
Johnstown, Pa., March 30. Nino
miners are reported entombed today
by an explosion in the mine of tho
Conomonagh Smokeless Coal com
pany at Seward, eight miles from
hero.
GRAND RAPIDS MEN
GET WAITE IN TOILS
' 7f-YTW
Eev. A. :V. Wishart (top) and Dr.
Perry Schurtz.
Rev. A. W. Wishart and Dr. Perry
Schurtz, of Grand Rapids, Mich.,
were the first persons to suspect that
John E. Peck and wife of Grand
Rapids had been poisoned by their
son-in-law. Dr. Warren Waite of New
York. The web was woven tightly
around Waite by these two men and
then New York detectives were call
ed in.
GERMAN HOLDS
UP SEA CAPTAIN
Stowaway on British Steamer
Puts Wireless Out of Com
mission and Locks Com
mander in Cabin.
CREW CHANGES COURSE
Signal Flag Brings Tug-boat,
Steam Pilot Boat and Coast
Guard Crew From
Delaware Cape.
Lewes, Delaware, March 3p Ern
est Schuller, a German, held up the
captain of the British steamer Matop
po shortly after the vessel passed San
dy Hook last night bound 'from New
York for Vladivostok with a. cargo of
munitions and war material. Schuller.
who was a stowaway, put the wireless
out of commission, locked tho captain
in his room all night and searched his
papers and the ship's safe Tho man
Is under arrest hero, having been
landed this afternoon.
The Matoppo passed out of Sandy
Hook at six o'clock last night and the
attack on the captain was made two
hours Inter. Schuller. It Is said, had
been a stowaway on the Matoppo five
days. When well out to aea, he made
his appearance armed with two re
volvers, It Is alleged, and forced the
captain Into his cnbln.
Had Placed Bomb3.
The man told the captain that he
had placed bombs In the different
parts of the ship.
The crew of the Matoppo feared the
man and when tho steamer hovo tn
sight of the Delaware Capes her
course was changed and she sent up a
signal for immediate assistance and
at the saino time a boat load of her
crew went ovor her side to come
ashore and summon help. A tug-boat
and the steam pilot boat Philadelphia
responded to the call as did al30 the
coaBt guard crew stationed at Cape
Henlopen, Delaware. The pilot boat
picked up tho ship's crew who told
the story of the hold up. The man
was brought ashore and is now In
irons at the custom house in Lewes.
Ho has In his possession money and
papers belonging to the captain and
the mate of tho Matoppo.
Federal authorities In Lowes havo
communicated with tho United States
district attorney at Wilmington, Dela
ware. j v
GERMAN SUBMARINES ARE SINKING
MERCHANTMEN WITHOUT WARNING I
HI) i
" I l
till '
None of British Vessels Torpedoed Since Inception of New
Campaign Have Been Halted Ships, Armed, or Un- i 1 I
armed, Go Down Indiscriminately Paris Reports II
Renewed Fighting South of River Somme
Germans Violently Bombard Advanced ill 11
French Points Counter Attack , j
Drives Enemy Back Fierce J
Fighting Is in Progress on I II,
Austro-Italian Front lilt
London, March 30, 12:14 p. m. Complete suspension !
of telegraphic communication between Holland and England
is reported by the Rotterdam correspondent of the Rotterdam J
Politiken, whose dispatch is forwarded from Copenhagen by II 1 '
the Exchange Telegraph company. No press dispatches have II i I
been received here from Holland since Tuesday. It was stated Jl
authoritatively here today that the interruption of telegraphic 1 1
communication with Holland was due to the storm and that II 1 i
resumption of the service shortly was expected. jl '
London, March 30, 12:25 p. m. The British steamship
Diadem has been sunk. f Jl
The Diadem of 3,752 tons gross, was reported on her ar- ll
rival at Marseilles on February 15 from Penarth, Wales. She 'j J
was owned in New Castle. jl I
Berlin, March 30, by wireless to Tuckerton, N. J. A ! HI
violent battle is in progress at the Gorizia bridgehead on the j
Iatilan front, large forces being engaged on both sides. Tho
official Austrian report of today announces the capture of I1
350 Italians. In the Doberdo sector there is spirited artillery
fighting. -. -.
Paris, March 30, 12 noon. Several
infantry attacks upon Avocourt wood
In an endeavor to retake lost posi
tions were made last night. Tho war
office of this afternoon says tho as
saults failed. No further advances
ngalnst Malancourt were attempted by
the Germans. East of the Meuse
there was heavy artillery fighting.
The text of tho statement follows:
"To the south of the river Somme
the way having been prepared by a
violent bombardment, the enemy pen
etrated to one of the advanced points
of our line at a point to the ewBt of
Vermandovillers. A counter attack on
our part, however, drove them out at
once.
Germans Driven Back.
"To the west of tho river Meuse,
the Germans last night delivered sev
eral counter attacks against our posi
tions in the wood ot Avocourt All
these assaults, however, were drlvon
back by our curtains of fire and the
firing of our machine guns and infan
try detachments, which caused heavy
losses In the ranks of the enemy.
This was notably the case before the
redoubt of Avocourt where tho Ger
mans left piles of dead bodies. There
has been no new military endeavor in
the region of Malancourt.
"To tho east of tho river Meuse and
In the Woevre district there has been
Intermittent bombardments. The
Germans havo thrown Into the river
Meuse, to the north of St. Mlhlel, a
great number of floating mines,
which, however, have caused no dam
age.
Activity In Lorraine.
"In Lorraine there has been activity
on the part of our artillery between
Domevre and Bremenll. There has
been no other happenings of import
ance to report from any other point
on the front
"During the day of March 29 one of
our aerial attacking squadrons threw
down fifteen shells of largo caliber on
the Sablons railroad station of Maz
and five others on tho railroad sta
tion at Pagny-Sur-Mosello. During
the night of March 29-30 two French
aviators bombarded the railroad sta
tion at MaizIeres-les-Metz, seven miles
north of Metz."
Espionage System Discovered.
Paris, March 29, 5:05 p. m. (De
layed). Discovery In the Greek
Islnnd of Corfu of an elaborate organi
zation for providing information and
supplies for submarines is reported
in a Rome dispatch to the Journal.
About forty persons, Including tho
keeper of one of the principal ho
tels, havo been arrested and will be
removed to Franco.
Italian War Report.
Rome, via London, March 30, 1:55
a. m. The following official state
ment was Issued today:
"In the Vcrmlgllo valley the effec
tive fire of our battery dispersed en
emy troops employed on defense
works. Along tho railway lines and
roads In tho Lagarlua valley and the
Suguna valley continuous movements
of troop trains are being hindered.
"Hostile artillery displayed great
activity yesterday against the posi
tions captured by us at Selleta Frie
kofel and Del Cavallo Pass, but wo
replied successfully, putting to flight
small enemy detachments which were
beginning an attack.
"On the Isonzo front the artillery
activity Is intense. On the Carec we .
repulHod enemy attacks attempted in
connection with the action which de- ! I
velopod on the Cerizla heights. I III
"Between Vermlgllano and Monfal- i III
cone our artillery successfully counter I
attacked, capturing some dozens of ' r
prisoners." i j
Germans Trying to Coerce Greece. fjjj
Athens, March 29, via Paris, March .III
30, 4:50 a. m. A high court official HI
declared to The Associated PreBB to- jjlj
day that in his opinion, the only ccmr jl
ceivablo object of the air raid on Sa- II
lonikl Is that Germany is attempting 11
to drive Greece to asBlst In the ex- 1 1 I
pulsion of the British and French for- I
ces from Salonlki. He said, however, I III
that such a thing was out of the ques- !'
Uon and that Greece had reason dally ' II
to realize she was at the mercy of the m r
entento allies. i
General Sarrall, the French com- III
mander-In-chlef, left SalonlkL today jjlj
for the front Lieutenant-General Ma- jjj
bon, the British commander, called on it
General Sarrail beforo his departure. li
The British commander then left for jl
Athens, accompanied by several other jjj i
British officers and will be received I J '
tomorrow by King Constantlne. If
'h
Many Serbians Die of Hunger. '1 ,
jBerne, March 29, via ParlB, 11 p. m. U
Of 10,000 Serbian refugees who, If
following the Invasion of their coun- LM '
try by the Teutonic allies headed. f
southward, only 8000 succeeded in ll'l
reaching Salonlki all the others haw n
ing perished of cold and hunger on 'jj
the way, according to report Just re- jM
celved from Mile. Comte of Geneva, H. .
representative at Salonlki of the If I
Swiss Red Cross. ;jf I
AUSTRIAN AEROPLANE RAID. II '
Rome, March 30, via Paris, 11:30 if
a, m. It is announced that six per- In i
sons were slightly wounded by Jj
bombs thrown from Austrian aero- 'jl
planes during a raid In the province j;l ,
of Venice last Monday. UJj
Land for Soldiers. j '
London, March 30, 3:07 a. m. The ,
British South African company has j J
announced a grant of 500,000 acres of ( 1
free land to soldier settlers from ovor- ' jj
seas after the war. ' jj
1 1
French Repel German Airmen. jjj
Paris, March 30, 1:30 p. m. A Hav- j
as dispatch from Salonlki says that t jj
another aerial raid on that city was I .
attomptod yesterday by German aero- I jj
planes. French nlrmen engaged them j tj '
and compelled them to turn about j
without accomplishing their object j !
Several bombs were- dropped on Or- I j
fanl but did no damage, v :j
. i H
t
London, March 30: 11:27 a. m. The
coalition government has scored an- II.
other victory at tho polls, its candl- t II
date, Owen Jacobsen, having been iUJ
successful in election at Hyde, over 'lj
B. P. Davles, independent Davies l
fought tho election on tho question of 'JJ
restriction of tho liquor traffic which j
he opposed. 1
Torpedo Intended for British Ship. Jj
Copenhagen. March 30, via London, ;
1:25 p. m. The Rotterdam corre- 4 j
spondent of the Politiken say3 that ac- , j i
cording to evidence gathered by tho j I j
Dutch ministry of marine, the Dutch t
steamship Palembang was torpedoed t j
while she was alongside a BrltlBh de- I j:
stroyer which was engaged in picking jj
up mlneB, The Inference is drawn 'jjj
(Continued on Page 7.) I
