muvx
m$wu
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 191G.
NUMBER 40.
0 PEOPLE KILLED
IN I, I G. WRECK
il
rty More Are Injured Three
Trains, Including Twentieth
Century, Limited, in Colli
sion.
CAUSE OF GHASH Iffll
weniiein ieniurv h i a to nave
Ploughed into Wreckage Re
sulting from Tail-End Colli
sion of Two Trains Ahead of
It.
Cleveland, March 27. With nt Icrst "
orsons 1e.nl ami more than -10 Injured,
eueral, rotate nun inlirnnti adonis navo
egim nn Investigation Into tlie cause that
ed, early to-day, to one of the most ills-
orK i cnuMi s..sicin.
Three tialns, including the Central's
minimi over, li e I went eut t-eiiiiu.v i.ijii-
ted wes' bound, and two sections of No.
known as the ( iilcngo-Iittsburg Uni
ted, eastbound. were In collision near
tnherst. Ohio. ,;, in es west of Clove,-
inno.
Reports gcncinlly credited am that the.
first and second sections of No. M were
proceeding at a rapid rate, at some point
only a m le apart when the second section
I lMltll lllb" 1 i L f- L PV IH'II, llllti kil;
. 1. n.l I tl... II .......I.... .....1 41.
rwcntlcth Centurv ploughed into tno
vr,.et;n i-n nf tlm Irt lu'n trjiltic jnro.nl-
Inir over from the li.'irnltol tracks.
The coaches and engines of No. SO wein
iiiTtlilrxl rtvnr unit wi'.i1; ;i !', u'ii 1,(1, .1
(quashed to' splinters. Fourteen coaches
were overturned.
The Twentieth Century, notwithstanding
Its Impact with the debris from the othei
trains, was scarcely damaged and pro-
reeded on Its Journey, Its passengers un-
Iniured oxcent foe a seveie shnlilnir tin.
A heavy fop from Lake Hrie had settled
over northern Ohio and It vas still daiK
when the wreck occurred. This, with
II1U itllt-t'U l.lllUIt, Ol .1 IUIVI'1 Illilll III UO
Ids duty under the rules, was ascribed
11V ROmn ml I'nnil nfllclnlu rtw tnr. innu
of the wreck. The towennan, It was said
)ind been without sleep most or the time
since Sunday night, his wife being 111
and requiring his nttentlon when lie ivus
not on duty.
A block signal set suddenly and without
warning against a train speeding east
ward following In the nrxt block Is the
basis of the doubt that existed to-night
ns to the real cause of the wreck. W. F.
Bchaff. dlstrht Mtnortntonilnm nf tlir, Vmv
York Central lines, said to-dav:
"The towennan can have nothing to
do with the cause of this wioek. Tho
explanation lies between the engineers
nnd the block signal system.
" e tested out the block signal sys
tem 'his morning after tho wreck and
found It working perfectly. Aftor the
wreck Knglnecr I less and his brakrmau,
A. M Gntcs, with niakemnn William
Blakeney of the Twentieth Century Lim
ited, walked back to tho signal which
lless diuvi by, they all said they found
the signal was red, or blocked, then."
Scenes of terrible confusion followed
the catastrophe, which occurred shortly
lifter 3:00 a. in. Many of the injured,
pinioned In tho wreckage, called pltc
ously for help ns uninjured passenseis,
)inlf clad emerged from the sleepers nnd
Joined with trainmen nnd others in
jescuo work. A flro among the wreck
age provided the first light Firemen
from Amherst were among the first urii
vnls and soon extinguished the flames,
Tho lire wns In one conch of train No.
, uouoral Manager Moon, In nn otn
clnl statement, mid this eench wan a
"modern solid steel coach." Pnssengers
find others who were on tha scene to
day did not agree ns lo the correctness
of this statement, many of them contend
ing thft CrtnnVl llrnu rW in.,l... , n at l I n
Hon. Thoe who disputed tho assertion
that the touches were till of solid steel
pointed to the fact th At "Tenth rn.n'h"
ii they termed it was torn into small
fragments which burned like tinder.
Hospitals In Lorain and niyrla to-night
were filled with Injured nnd it generally
was believed tho death list would bo
Increased. Hospital trains wero run from
"Cleveland, Klyrla and Ixiraln to the
ficene of tho wreck and physicians and
ambulances wero rushed from all theso
points. Hundreds of villagers and farm
ers from Amherst and vicinity did heroic
work In caring for the dead, dying and
injured. Tho llttlo morgue tit Amherst
was quickly filled, but other buildings
wero mado available. Most of the bodies
wero mangled beyond recognition nnd
In Eomo cases Identification may bo Im
possible. Private homes were alBo
thrown open and many wero utilized
pendlnn removal of tho Injured to Klyrla
and Lorain hospitals.
The Twentieth Century Limited was
wrecked on .tuno zi, nwi, ai -Mentor,
Ohio, about 10 miles east of Cleveland.
In that disaster 1'J persons lost their
lives. Thij Now York Central at that
time wn;t Just Inaugurating Us fnst serv
ice shortening tho tlnin in trips between
New York nnd Chicago nnd the Twen
tieth Century was making Its second
run under tho new fast tlmo schedule.
A maniac, it wtis asserted by railroad
officials, turned a switch that cnused tho
Mentor wreck.
The wreck to-day, however, waH far
moio disastrous in loss of life and in
jured!: At 3:00 p. m. D. C. 'Moon, general man
ager of tho Now York Central Itnllrond
company, issued tho following statement!
"About 3:20 o'clock this morning llrst
No. RC, tho 'Jhlctigo-rittsburg passenger
train, :vas stopped at llio Interlocking
tXdi" nt Amherst, Ohio. Shortly after
.ihe train started to proceed v.nd was mov
tns' at a speed of about llvo t' in mllcH
(Continued on pnire,
0
CARRANZA GIVES U. S.
PERMISSION TO USE
MEXICAN RAILROAD
Thus Solves One of the Most Serious Problems in
the Pursuit of Villa Shipments to Troops at
Front Will Be Begun at Once No Official
News from Gen. Pershing's Army Except
Brief Statement That Bandit Is Among
Friends in Santa Mari Valley.
Washington, March 2U. One of tin
tinny'. most serious problems In hunting
Villa, was KnHeil lo-dny when General
Cariuii7.a promptly gt anted the renewed
tKluest of tho sip.to department for per
mission to u-o tho Mexican Northwestern
tallioad In carrying out the putsult.
(Jcneial Cnrranaa received tho new re-
tiuest this morning; hln answer was In
Washington before dull!. It was con
taint tl In a bilef mes.sago from John L.
Rodgcrs, special agent of the United
.States ut Quorctaro, saying the head of
the du facto government agreed to tho
commercial us,, of tho line, uillelals hern
assumed ho would he equally prompt In
notifying his olllcers on the border und
that Geuctal Funston might begin ship
ments to-monow.
Although the army will proceed tu use
the railroad on a commercial basis, which
Is const! ued hole as meaning that nil
service shall bt paid for at regular rates,
the state department will negotiate
fuither with Catranza to bring about a
more complete understanding as to Just
what ho has agreed to. To-dnv's re-1
spun.-t) Is regarded as being satisfactory
In a measure, but It Is not sufficiently
dellnlte. It may be too that In order to
assure the attlval and tU livery of nip
piles shipped to points along ihe line rJen
eral Funslou will dtslre to place guards
on tho trains.
War di'pattnient ofllclals wero greatly
relieved by the removal of the necessity
for maintaining a motor truck supply
lino over desert roads for a distance ot
more than MW miles. A cloud burst or
rreat storm might make thu roads Im
passable for a considerable space of time,
cutting off the tioopH from their source
supplies at Ihe border.
A lillo tho physical conditions of the, over the Mexican Northwestern tailroad
Mexican Northwestern is not good, many f to the American troops in Mexico was re
brldgcs having been destroyed during reived nt General Funston's headquarters
the years of revolution in Mexico, army with rejoicing, but this manifestation ot
engineers should have little difficulty in pleasure was tempered by the news that
keeping it open. j tlio supplies must bo consigned as ordl-
Asldo from tho ralltond problem, tic- nary freight to some Individual not con
tails of the protocol suggested by Gcn-!nected with tho nrmy.
eral Cananza remain to lie worked out j Disappointment of staff olllcers at head
through diplomatic channel. Slato de-, quarters was unconcealed. They had ex
partment officials indicate. however, i pected the do facto government ot Mex
that there is no reason for haste In this Ico to glvo unqualified consent to the use
connection. As was the case when of tho Northwestern. The tlrst shipment
American troops crossed Into Mexico in will lie sent from Juarez to f'asas Grandes
pursuit of Gcronlmo, tho Apncho outlaw, 1 and from there distributed by motors
e.lrs ng", the formal agreement may . and wagon trains to the delacluncnts thai
not be completed until the expedition has tire beating tho trails a hundred and fifty
accomplished its purpose and returned,
It will serve, however, as tho legal basis
for adjustment of all claims arising out
of the use of Ameilcan troops to pur-
Mio Villa.
In Mexico tho agreement Is unler-Uie
stood to have another object, Gom-al
Carranza Is said to desiro Its perfec-
THREE LEIGHTONS
INDICTED FOR 1ST
DEGREE MURDER
Charged with Killing A. C. Gib-
son of Sharon Elder Leigh
ton Has Been Placed
on Trial.
Woodstock, March 79. In the cases of
Charles, Walter and Newell Lelghton of
Sharon, tho grand Jury last night brought
In a truo bill indicting nil three for
murder in tho first degree, charging the
killing of A. C. Gibson on February 21.
When Windsor county court convened
at nine o'clock this morning Charles
Lelghton, the father, pleaded not guilty
to tho Indictment nnd his trial was begun.
Tht. day was spoilt in examining prosiuc
tlvo Jurors.
APPROVES INCREASE.
CoiiiiiiInkIiih AilthortrH llctliel Tel. A
Tel. Co. to iNHiie lf:tl,(IIMl .Stock.
lirattleboro, March 2!. The Vermont
Public Service Commission to-day an
nounced that It has authorized the Hethel
'role-phone and Telegraph company to Is
sue $30,000 of additional stock. Tho com
pany desires to purchase tho telephone
plant and property which is owned by
M. H. Hazen of South ltoyalton as nn
Individual under tho namo of tho Itapld
Telephone company.
The commission has also lind certilled
the amendment of the charter of the
llctliel Telephone company increasing tho
capital stock from $10,000 to 50,ooo.
PROGRESSIVES TO MEET
AT BURLINGTON MAY 21
Montpollor, March 29, Tho Stato
convention of tho Progressive paity to
choose delegates to tho national con
ventlon will bo hold nt Ilurllngtoii
May 21, Tho date was decided on by
the cxclutlvo committee to-night.
OtULDHEN HAVE UAISISD J1.000.
Tho children's fostlvnl of the Center
Congregational Church, Urnttloboro,
netted It 10 for missionary work, Right
falls havo netted ovef Jl.OuO,
Hon as a detlnlto and binding under
standing with the fnlted States whi.di
he can show to his people In support of
his statement that no sovereign right of
his country has heen suirendeied
violated.
There was no military news to-day
from the border or from the expedition
nry columns.
tleneral Pershing's reports to General
Fttnston have been very brief and It has
only been the Important despatches from
tho front that have been forwarded to
the war department. Offlc'als viewed
with satisfaction, however, ptess reports
thai American troopers were pressing
close on the bandit's lieel.
Medical offltcrs were inclined to dis
credit reports of extensive Mrkncss
among tho troops at the front. The re
gion In which they are operating Is de
M'rlhed us healthy and the men of the
eNpedlHonury force are thoroughly ac
climated. No lcpoits of casualties or
epidemics have been lecelved beyond the
teise messaso to-day saying that
trooper of the Tenth cavalry hail died
us a result of Injuries leeched In a
train wieck, fieneinl Funston has not
iked any extension of bin base hos
pital facilities.
FA Paso, March 21. -Supplies to Ameri
can troops will l sin to forwaid on
the Mexhun Northwestern railroad with
in a few hours after General Hell has
received official notification ot th" con
licnt of General Carranr.a to ue tho
roatl. Genetal Hell expressed tho great
est gratification over t lie news.
Pan Antonio, Texas, March 20. General
! Cat ratra's net mission to shin suimllos
miles to the south.
, Geneinl Pershing reported to General
Funston early to-day the positions were
j not revealed. Villa, he said, had lnst been
reported In the Santa Marl vnlley, where
was si!d to bo among friends who
wore making it difficult for tho scouts to
learn anything regarding his rnovements.
.SENATE ARMY BILL
! CALLS FOR PEACE
ARMY OF 175.000
Also for Federal Volunteer
Force of 2(51,000 and Na
tional Guard of
' 2SO.00O.
Washington, March 20. Consideration
of the army increase bill, tho llrst of the
big national defense measures, begnn in
tho Senate to-day with republicans Join
Ing the democrats In expressing the hope
that It might bt. disposed of as quickly
as possible.
Senator Chamberlain, chairman ot the
military commlttco, Introduced tho meas
ute, which is a substitute for tile Hay
bill passed by the House, and mado a
lengthy address explaining Its provisions.
When tho bill had been tend It was laid
aside to permit senators to familiarize
tin niselvcs with It. To-morrow it will be
called up for muling by sections, and is
to bt. kept constantly before tho Senate
until passed. Senator Chamberlain an
nounced he would ask for nlcbt scfsIoiis
unless progress was made without them.
Senator Hoi ah gavo notice that lie
would fight tho national guard pro
visions. He does not believe tho na
tional guard should bo used ns a basis
for a reserve force and favors instead
tho provision for creation and tho
training of a volunteor foreo under
tho supervision of federal army of
ficers. Tlio chief aim of tho Senate suli
stltuo Is to Increase tho pence stiongth
of tho regular standing niniy to 17T.,
1)00 men. It also provides for a federal
volunteer force of 2111,000 men, nnd
tliti national gunrd of 2SO.00O, which
would be placed undor federal control
and participate in federal appropria
tions. Northfield Grange Incorporates.
Mnntpollcr. March 29, The Northfield
Orange, Inc., with J5.000 capital stock,
divided Into 000 shares, urgnnUd to
maintain a secret society for the social,
educational and agricultural advancement
of the community, lins Hied articles ot
association with the Bocretnry of state.
Tlio Incorporator are Heber M. Polo,
II. A. Stockwoll, C, li, Johnson and
William C. Whlto, all ot Northllold.
SUBIIESTBT
BELLIGERENTS Hi
NEUTRALS ALIKE
Increasing Evidence That Ger
many's Present Undersea
Campaign Respects No Na
tionality. situation mam serious
State Department Hears Teu
tons' Submersible Command
ers Arc Acting under Secret
Instructions Such as Von Tir
pitz Advocated.
Washington, March 2?. Tho accum
ulation of circumstantial evidence in
dicating that tlirmiiiiy has engaged
upon a campaign of submarlno warfare
which has no regard for the rights of
American cltlzms traveling on mer
chant ships of belligerent nationality,
the administration considers, has cre
ated one of the most set Ions situations
which Has confronted tho United States
since the beginning of tho war In Ku
rope. 12very agency open to the stnto de
partment to-night was being employed
In an effort to gather an unimpeach
able array of facts regarding the ex
plosion which damaged tho Hrltish
channel steamer Sussex; the shilling
of the Ilrltlsh ships Manchester F.ngi
neer. Englishman and Hagle Point;
and tho alleged tiring of a torpedo at
the French passenger ship Fntrla. All
these ships carried American citizens,
and all appartnt'y wero attacked In
violation of tiermnny's recently re
newed assurances to the United States.
The next step of the Fnlted States is
said authoritatively to have been deter
mined upon. I'nless Germany. 'In reply
to tho inquiries made by tho I'nited
States through Ambassador Gerard,
makes somo statement to cause tho stato
department to cbango Its present inten
tions, it is understood that all the recent
aggravating Incidents vllt.b6 combined
Into one general foruldnblo Indictment
which will bring the entire subject to a
clear-cut Issue.
Fhould Germany admit responsibility
for any of tho attacks nnd attempt to sat
isfy the Fnlted States by t-aymg that n
mistake had been mado nnd bv offering
to make reparation nnd to punish the
kid' marine commander, the Issue would
not by nny means be dlspos-cl of. It Is
regarded as certain that the Fnlted States
would not accept such an explanation ns
satisfactory, at least until time had shown
what punishment actually was meted out
to tho offending submarine commander,
and whether nny value longer could be at
tached to Germany's promises.
In the event of Germany disclaiming
responsibility for the disasters, the Fnlted
States will proceed with Its investlg-tt'ons
to determine to Its own satisfaction
whether the evidence, which now strong
ly indicates that the Stii-sex and other
ships were torpedoed without warning, can
be regarded as conclusive proof. With
.such proof before it, the government prob
ably would act promptly. Officials refrain
from discussing what the naturo of the
action would be.
The very number of apparently un
warranted attacks which recently have
occurred is regarded by the administra
tion as particularly significant. The num
ber Is said by officials to have disposed
of the theory that the explosions might
have been .caused by mints. Some of the
enses, It was pointed out, have occurred
in localities where there Is no possibility
of mine ileitis having been laid, because
of the depth of the water and tho dis
tance from shore.
It became known to-day that the stato
department had heard unofficially the
suggestion that German submarine com
manders were acting under secret in
structions, such as were advocated by
Grand Admiral Von Tirpltz, to torpedo
every vessel, neutral as well as bellig
erent owned, approaching the Hrltish
isles.
As the Fnlted States was advised the
new orders to submnrlnes which went
Into effect March 1 provided for the at
tack without warning of nil nrmed mer
chnntmen of tho entento nllles. There
has been no official confirmation of the
secret order report
What is described In high administra
tion circles as tho extreme gravity ol
the situation makes it necessary for the
Fnlted States to proceed with tlio ut
most enre In piepprlns for the next step,
tho essential facts In each case de
veloped from the best testimony and
evidence available.
While all the recent cases undor In
vestigntlon will play Important parts in
the Anal consldetatlon of the situation,
tlio case of the Sussex undoubtedly will
form tho cardinal feature. Olllclals are
Impi-e.-sed with tho eonipletciuts of the
evidence available regarding details of
the Sussex explosion, and particularly
with the fragments of metal w hlcli wero
found and which have been described ns
pints of a torpedo. These pieces of mttnl
will be examined by American experts.
Count von Ueinstorff, the Germ-in am
bassador, returned to Washington to
night from a visit to New York. n(! n,j
ho had no word from his government
relating to the recent developments.
First otllclnl Information concerning the
linking of tho Lagie I oiih was contained
in a despatch received late jn the dny
from Consul Frost at Quceiistown. Tills
rend ns follows!
"Ilrltlsh steamer ICagle point torpedoed
yesterdny without warning um m,,s f,.otll
land. All saved. One American."
Consul Frost Immediately was in.
stiuctcd to gather additional Informa
tion.
Further Btato department despatchoB
to. day regarding tho sinking ot the
(Contluucd on yuicc four),
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
MIDDLEBIJRY.
Nnpolcon La Franco of Itlpton dlod of
pneumonia at his homo Wednesday March
S3 nt tho ngo of "I years. Ho Is sur
vived by a wife, four sons, Lewis and
John LaFranco of Hutland, George. La
Franco of Hurllnglon nnd Albert La
Franco of Syracuse, N, Y,, and tlireo
daughters, Mrs. Kmmn Goodro of Itlpton.
Mrs. Nelllo Flynn of Albany, X, Y., nnd
Mrs. Ulnncho Woodbury of Shrewsbury,
a sister, Mrs. Joseph Dandrow of Now-I
port, N. If., nnd two brothers, Abraham ens. Frank Collins went Sunday to
LaFrnnce of Forestdalc nnd Kngeno La- Providence, It. I., where he has u mar
France of White Hear l.nko, Minn. Mr. ' rled sister and whero ills mother has
Lal'ivtnco was a woll known man !
throughout the State and for a number
of years has run the hotel In that village
known as the Maple Inn. The funeral
was hi Id in tills village at St. Mary's
Catholic. Church at nine o'clock Satur
day morning and tho Interment was in
tho Catholic comet en'. A large num
ber of the members of the church
and parish of tho Congregational
Church gave a fnrowetl reception to tho
ltev. and Mrs. A. A, Lancnster In tho
church vestry last Thursday evening. II.:
leaves to assume bis duties as pastor of
the Pilgrims' Congregational Church at
Yotingstown, Ohio, Optil 1.
The ltev. S. Kay Darling of Houth
Hanson, Mass., has accented a call from
the First Congregational Church In Corn-1
wall and will begin his labors there April
1 'I't.n -.,... It ...n. ..I...- .1... 1 I
i. iiiu tumult ,itv-iiiMi iii me I UI1U
cnnimlssloneiH and selectmen ot Addison
county will bo held In the town ball
Thursday, April , at 10:30 In the forenoon
and nn afternoon session will be held
tit 1:30 o'clock. The public Is Invited to
attend. Mrs. Xoali Wlsstll, who returned
from the Fanny Allen hospital a few days
ngo, where rhe underwent a serious
operation, is tapldly recovering nnd is
able to lido out a little each day. William
tjlancy nnd John M. Wright, who spent
most of the winter h"re, have gone to
Mlm-vlMe, X. V. Thomas MrCnuley, who
got the toes of his 1-ft foot badly crushed
at thu pulp mill several days ago, Is abl
to be about again, but will not be able
to resume work for a wed: or two.
George W. Works of Southbiidge, Mas.,
Is In town to visit friends for a couple
of weeks. Howard H. Cornell of St.
Johns, X. P., In visiting In town and ex
pects to remain until about May 1.
Attorney Ira II. I.aFlcur has announced
his candidacy for election as town topic
S"titatlve from Middlcbury in the next
Leglslature.-Qulte a i, umber of farmer.-,
in this section tapped their maple tiees on
Friday and Saturday and the movement
will become gcneial within a few days
If the ptescnt favorable wiather con
tinues. There Is a large amount of snow
in tlm sugar orchards, almost more than
the sugar makers want, as last year they
had too little. The piescnt conditions
point to nn unusually heavy run ot pnp.
Fred W. Hammond, superintendent
ot tho Fnlted States Morgan Horse
farm, who was severely Injured
Jurcd a few weeks ago by a fall on tho
Ice noar his homo, Is slowly recovering
nnd Is able to tide out u little. Col. and
Mrs. S. A. Isley arc In New York city.
Dr. nnd Mrs. W. 11. Mayo are
parents of a son, born at their home in
Xotthfleld. Mrs. Mayo was Miss Prudence
Stlckney. who lui3 many friends In this
viclnitv.
At the services at the Congregation
al Church Sunday the Rev. A. A. Lan
caster expressi d his appreciation of
APPEARANCE OF
A POSSIBILITY
Conscription of Married Men in
England Would Probably
, Force a Real Situa
tion. London, March :. An Important pro-
nouncement from the government on tho
of Commons, Tho cabinet met In coun-
ell to-day before the Houso assembled,
to tnscuss tlio matter, and In some
quarters it was expected that radical
decisions would be mado.
Tlio pivotal point of the situation is
Premier Asquith's emphatic declaration
somo months ago that he would not re
main a member of any government
which Introduced general conscription,
and in tlio face of this binding doclata
tlon It would seem that conscription of
mnrrlod men could only como about by i
DSS
ASQUilH MINiSTRY
the disappearance of Mr. Asqulth from I Wallace H. Gilpin, Knq.,
tho ministry. It may therefore be as-1 Uarton, Vt.
pumod that another obligatory service I Pear Mr. Gilpin:
bill will not bo Introduced In Pailiamout! I have your letter of March IS Inquiring
without a grave cabinet conflict and: If 1 am to be a candidate for governor
crisis, especially as tho conseiiptloiilst at the primaries In September;
party strongly opposes tho accession to I shall bo a candidate for tho noinln
Hie premiership of David Lloyd-George, 1 alien to the otllce of governor nt the
who Is regarded in political circles as September pilnuiriis. Inasmuch as under
the natural successor of Mr. Asqulth. the ptimaiy law tho platform of the
When Walter Humo Long, president patty Is to bo mado by a convention com
of the local government board, moved I pot-td of the nominees for Stato senators
the adjournment of the House to-day to ami town leprcsentatlvcs and thu six
make his recruiting statement In behalf! elective otllceis, I will only say nt tilts
of tho government, It was found that
tho ministers had limited their resolu
tions to ameliorating ns far as possible
tho hardships to tlie married men, seek
ing by all available steps to swell the
number of single enlisted men by iiIhiI
Ishliig some of tho reserved occupations,
morn extensive omplnjmeni of women
mil the Immediate culling up of men
between IS and 19 years of age, who
are to be put In training, but will not
bo sent nbroiid.
Mr. Long opened by defending Lord
Dei by. the director of lecrultlug, from
what ho failed unjiibt attacks. He salt!
that Lord Derby's demands bad been
(Cunlluiii'd tin pnjfe four).
tho many kindnesses which have como
to him and his family during the near
ly five years of his pastnrnte. Tha
ltev. Mr. Lancaster and family went
Wcdncsdiy to Montreal, where Mrs.
Lancaster and tho children will remain
for somo time. Mr. Lancaster will
go from there to Youngstown, Ohio, at
tho end of tho week, to begin Ills pas
tor.ato at Plymouth Church. Thu mem
bers of tho commlttco appointed on the
business of securing a new paBlor are:
Arthur W. Kddy, chairman, Prof. Kr
nest C. Prynnt, K. 1). Cornwoll, Charles
Harris, Frank J. Hubbard, Prof.
ward Collins, Julius O. Seoloy, Jr., Miss
Susan F. Parker and Mrs,
,, W. Dick-
beon all winter. Miss Minnie Dodge
has gone to Rutland and Is visiting at
thu home of relatives, Mr. and Mrs.
Charles P. Dotlge. Miss Isabello Car-
rlgan has gono to Plttsfortl to spentl
a f:v days at tho homo of her father,
Thomas Carrlgan. Mrs. 12. 1 1. Fnrn
ham has returned to Sudbury after a
Isit here at the home ot her mother,
Mrs. Jones. Hor daughter. Margaret,
has come for a few days' visit. Mrs.
O. P. Moore lias gone to Now York,
e.allotl by tho serious Illness of bet
daughter, Mrs. Merrill Lnno. Mrs. N.
It. Caldwoll has returned to Groton af
ter spending a few days with her par
ents, Mr. and Mrs. C, H. Keese. Mrs.
lohn Frntlette and two grandsons,
rlc,tclu.r Taylor and Frederick Illssett,
,1HVo returned from P.urllngton. where
they havo been for a few days. Miss
Myrle H. Hill, a teacher In the high
school, Woodstock, Is In town to visit
I her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Hill.
William Morritt has returned from
Hutland, where he spent a week.
Gilbert Dumas has returned from Hut
land, whero he has been on a visit to
Ills daughter, Mrs. Frank Loomls, for
a few days. Miss Hena O'Bryan, a
teacher in the high school nt North
ampton, Mnss., Is In town to visit her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Hansom O'Hryan.
Wright C-nswcll, of the firm of Stokes
.1 Co., while at work at the freight depot
Mondny afternoon unloading automobiles
got bis left log caught between the car
door and nn automobile nnd badly
crusihed. Miss Anna Sanderson of Pur
llngton Is In town to visit nt the homo
of her undo and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. K.
K. Turner, and her grandfather, Col.
it.haiies T. Yoiitt. John Lovctt ant
.laughter have gone to Hutland for a few
days. Tho Young People's society of th
Memorial lluptlst Church will hold a nriplo
sugar party in the parlors of tho church
Friday evening. James Rogers and son,
William, have gone to Rutland. Mrs.
Henry Gerow has gone to Schenectady,
X. Y., called there by the serious Illness
of her sister. Mr. Rose Ho'den, who
tolA her farm Just south ot this village
a few weeks ago, sold at auction the
rtock and household goods on Tuesday,
and expects to leave soon for Ohio, her
former home, where she will live.
Miss Alice liuclanti of Florence, Italy,
gave a sonar recital nt the homo of Mrs.
I. M. Saundors on Vorth Pleasant street,
with Mrs. J. H. Hold ai accompanist.
Tho recital waa given under the
autplces of Ethan Allen Chapter, D
A. R. A good-sized silver collection was
received, which will help toward tho
purchase of a marker to he erected In
Middlcbury for Revolutionary soldiers.
Arrangements have been made whereby
the Rev. Charles M. Crooks of the Old
(Continued on iince two)
STATE AUDITOR
HIS HAT IN RIN
Formal Announcement of Can-
didacy for Governorship at
September Primaries.
Parton, March !. The following an-
.f,iir,.nr.nt nnMrffl In tO-dllV's PartOIl
' Atnnltiirr
I ,
Atarch IK. l'Jlfi.
I Horace F. Graliam, Esq..
Crnftsbury, Vermont,
pom. jj,. .Graham:
As you are being frequently mentioned
for tho olilee of governor, I am taking
tho ilberty of writing you and inquiring
If you will be n candidate tor the otllce
at the primaries in September,
Hoping to hear from you. I am,
Sincerely,
WALLACi: H, GILPIN.
Craftnhury. Vt..
March 1S1G.
time that irom my fourteen years' ex
perience as auditor of accounts have
"ouiu to certain dellnltu conclusions us
to what will tend to advance tho Inter
ests of our Stato and make the govern
ment more ellkient and Ions expensive.
Later on I will bo glnd to go into these
matters In detail, but for the present let
mo my that I feel Hint we should llrst
adequately cafe for the State institutions
we have and the State endeavors wo are
engaged upon, before wo tako up new
enterprises, and that certain ot our boaids
and cntniulsslons can bo consolidated or
dispensed with without Injury to tlie
public service,
Yours very truly,
110UACB V. GRAHAM.
GRAHAM THROWS
GERMANS ADVANCE
OVER MILE FRONT
IN VERDUN REGION
Infantry Penetrates Northwest
Corner of Village of Malan
court and Is There Checked
by French.
81HQKNTS KEEP IIP
Turks Turn Unsuccessfully tt
Offensive in the Caucasus
Thaw Sets In on Russian
Front Which Is Hampering
Operations.
London, March 2). The Germans to the
northwest of Verdun In an infantry at
tack started with huge effectives have
gained additional ground agolnst tho
French north of Malancourt and havo
even penetrated the northwest corner ot
tho village.
Tlie attempts nf tho Teutons to carry
their advance farther, however, were
stopped by the French lire as also were
tin eo counter attacks against the posi
tions in the Avocnurt wood, south of
Malancourt, which had previously been
taken from them by a French infantry
attack. Tho German ollicial communica
tion says that the advance, of tlie Ger
mans noi th of Milancourt was over a
front of more than a mile.
During the German offensive on Malan
court the French heavy guns from the
Argonne were directing their lire on the
Malancourt and Avoeourt woods.
Alde from the Infantry attacks and
counter attacks In this region a heavy
bombardment has been In progress from
Avoeourt northeastward to Pethlncourt,
a distance of live miles. There has also'
been a continuation of the sporadic out
buists of artillery flro to the north and
east uf Verdun; while In the Vosges
mountains the French batteries havo been
keeping up their bombardment of Ger
man organizations.
In mining operations in the Argonne
the French have blown up German posts
and between the Olse and tho Alsno havo
dispersed German convoys with their
guns. Tho Germans claim that in a hand
grenndo encounter they reenptured from
the Prltlsh a mine crater at St. EIIo.
Tho Hrltish declare they have con
solidated all the ground gained on March
Although a thaw has sot in on tho
Russian front and tho rivers are flooded
and the lowlands turned into morasses,
hard lighting between the Germans and
Russians continues from the Dvlnsk re
gion southward. Xear Lako Nnrocz the
Germans have been driven out of a
.wooded sector and their counter attacks
repulsed by the Russian fire. German
trenches havo been taken by tho Rus
sians In the Oglnskl canal region.
The Russians havo been on the offen
sive along the Strlpa river region and
on the Pessnrablnn front. In the latter
region the Russian artillery Is very ac
tive. Tho repulse of vicious Italian nttacks
on the north slope of San Mlchelo and
near Snn Martlno on tho Austro-Itallan
Hue Is chronicled by Vienna. Austrian
airmen have bombed Italian railway
lines in Venotla.
The Greek government has protested
to tho central powers ngalnBt tho air
raid mado over Saloniki last Monday, In
which 20 persons wero killed. Snlonikl,
says the Teutons, lost four of the seven
machines which delivered the attack, to
gether with their crews.
The Turks turned to the offensive
against the Russians In the coastal sec
tor of tho Caucasus, but tho Russians
bent them off with heavy casualties and
forced thorn to retreat.
Tho Russian war minister, General
Polivanoff, who has held office for tha
lart nine months, has retired at his own
request, according to nn unofficial de
spatch from PetrogTad, which adds that
General Chouvaloff, of tho war office,
has succeeded him.
SMOTHERED TO DEATH.
Iloille of Aged Couple to Re nrouicbt
to Stone.
.Mansfield, Mass., March 23. In a fire
early yesterday that destroyed their homo
'Mr. and Mrs. Lyman II. Atkins, an aged
couple of this place, lost their lives, both
probably having been nvereomo by smoks
while they slept.
Tho the started it Is thought from a
fleraugenien' of one of tho many incuba
tors that wero kept about tho place. MY.
Atkins anil W. H. Allen wore partners In
a poultry business, and the Incubatora
were kept In tho cellar.
The building was a mass ot flames when
the tiro was discovered. Neighbors gave
the alarm, but the department headquar
ters Is n considerable distance from the
place.
Mr. and Mrs. Atkins were about "0 yoars
old. Mrs. Atkins' hody wits found in bed,
but Its position indicated that sho had
tried to rise. Tlio body of the man was
not found until the floor gave way, when
It fell Into the cellar.
Stowe, March 2.1. Mrs. Fred 15. Smith
received word to-day that her uncle and
aunt, Mr. nnd Mrs. Lyman II. Atkins of
Mansfield, Mass., had been bumod to
death and that tboir bodies will be
brought to Stowe Saturday. The funeral
will probably bo held Sunday at the Con
gregational Church. Mr. Atkins passed
his early llfo In Stowe. Ho wns born May
111, 1SI7, and wns tho son of Mr, nnd Mrs
Hlal Atkins, for many years well known
resldonts of Stowo. A daughter, Miss
Klsa Atkins, nnd two sisters, Mrs. Inez
Gorton of Hampton, Vo.. and Mrs. JulU
Irving of Hurllngton, survive, Mrs. Irving
Is In Smyrna, Fltu, where she has passed
Jtlio winter.
