&
•5.
ft
5£
a-
w#
»-.
SKSU.-:.
fi
ESTABLISHED 1854.
GARDNER NEW MAYOR
Morris Gardner Defeated A. M.
Pryor by 29 Votes in Close Con
test. 535 Votes Cast.
Morris Gardner will be Mayor of
Leon for the coming two years, de
dicating A. M. Pryor at the city elec
tion on Monday by a majority of 29
votes out of a total vote of 535. Mr.
Pryor carried the first ward by a
majority of 4, the second ward by 1,
and Mr. Gardner had a majority of
34 in the third ward. The only oth
er contest was for councilman in the
third ward, S. E. Benefiel, the caucus
nominee defeating Dr. J. O. Wood
mansee on an independent ticket by
a majority of 15.
The new council will meet next
Monday and be sworn into office. Mr.
Gardner, who assumes the mayor's
•office, has served on the council for
the past nine years, so he will be
familiar with his duties. Mayor Geo.
H. Farquhar retired to become a
councilman at large, F. H. Cozad be
ing re-elected as the other council
man at large. F. A. Gardner suc
ceeds himself as councilman for the
first ward, Orville Stout succeeds Win
Cash as councilman from the second
•ward, and S. E. Benefiel succeeds
Morris Gardner as councilman in the
third ward. M. A. Gammill was re
flected as city treasurer, and T. E.
.Wallace re-elected as assessor.
The vote on Mayor was as fallows:
Wards
1st 2nd 3rd
Gardner 77 75 125—277
Pryor 81 76 91—248
Gardner's Majority 29
Mr. Gardner is thoroughly familiar
•with the details of the city's affairs
and we predict that he will make one
of the best mayors Leon has ever
had. Every good citizen should give
him their hearty support in all mat
ters, and with him at the head of
our city Leon will continue as one of
the best little cities in the state, and
one whose public improvements has
attracted attention in all parts of the
state.
The retiring mayor, Mr. Farquhar,
has made an ideal mayor, and had
he consented he would probably have
been rc-elected without any opposi
tion, but he absolutely refused to
continue to be mayor, as it requires
practically all of a man's time if he
gives the oflice the attention it
should have, but everybody is glad
to see Mr. Farquhar remain as a
member of the city council.
A Big Line of New Cars.
The Decatur county Overland
Company unloaded a big double deck
auto car containing six new Over
lands Tuesday, and have on the floor
at their salesroom on the east side
of the square, ten new Overlands, in
cluding a big Six, and they are
a mighty fine line of popular priced
cars, with everything right up to the
minute. They are prepared to make
prompt deliveries right off the floor
and you will not have to wait for a
car but can drive it home with you.
They have fixed up a swell salesroom
and extend a cordial invitation to
anyone who is in the market for a
new car to call and they will be glad
to give you a demonstration.
Elmer Smith Found Dead in Livery
Barn at Van Wert.
Elmer Smith, for many years a
well known resident of Van Wert,
was found dead in T. M. Craft's liv
ery barn at Van Wert last Wednes
day afternoon. Mr. Smith was pre
paring to leave for Wyoming, and
had gone to the barn to fix up a box
in which he was going to pack some
of his things. He had been an epi
leptic for years and it is supposed he
died from an epileptic attack. He
was a highly respected and honor-
fe able citizen and had many friends.
His funeral was held at the Van Wert
A Christian church on Saturday morn
ing, conducted by Rev. A. B. Cornell.
College Glee Club Coining.
r" The Penn College Girls Glee Club
'i '?#£.' which appears at the Leon opera
house, Thursday night, March 30, is
in no sense a theatrical organization
but a group of college girls trained
Sg.. in music in the conservatory of mu
sic of Penn College, Oskaloosa. They
£,• have spent months of training for
this special concert they are giving on
W'i-tr- their regular spring tour and it is
certainly a musical treat for the peo
pi® of Leon. They render a varied
program to suit all, including vocal
and instrumuental solos, duet's, trios,
old English songs and readings.
W
Mj-j, Two Leon young men, John Epper
?"ley and Harve Allard were found
fp'*r- guilty of entering a freight car at the
t'Vr-
Leon depot and stealing some beer,
pVv in the federal court at Creston, the
fe-- jury arriving at a verdict at 10
o:clock Thursday evening. On Mon
day Judge Wade sentenced Epperley
and Allard to a term of eighteen
months in the federal prison at
Leavenworth, Kansas. Jack Adair,
who was jointly indicted with them,
was not present, and his whereabouts
are unknown.
.Mrs. Mary Ann Foxworthy Died Sun-
AMrs.
Mary Ann Foxworthy, mother
of Dr. O. W. Foxworthy of this city,
fdied at her home in Lineville last
Sunday morning at the age of 89
years, 5 months and 27 days. She
s^had been in poor health for some
©C months, resulting from & fall. Her
funeral-was held on Monday, inter
-r4 ment being at Lineville. An obitu
^|ary notice will be published next
week.
"Meet me at.Cherrlngton's."
WINNER FOH FOURTH TIME.
Miss Nanrie Kemp Won First Place
in Dramatic Class at District
Contest at Osceola.
About sixty students, teachers and
friends accompanied Miss Nancie
Kemp to Osceola last Friday and had
the pleasure of seeing this popular
little lady again will first place in the
district declamatory contest, this be
ing the fourth time this year she has
won first place in the dramatic class,
at the county, sub-district, quadran
gular and district contests, and now
she goes as Leon's representative to
the state contest which will be held
at Carroll on Friday, April 14th, and
her fi lends and admirers are hoping
that her record will not be broken
aVid that she will win out in the state
contest. She has already won four
gold medals.
At the southwestern district con
test held at Osceola twelve schools
vere represented, the district being
made up of four sub-districts of
twelve schools each. There are four
districts in the state, each with the
same number of sub-districts and
schools, so that in the state contest
at Carroll 192 schools will be repre
sented.
Miss Kemp's competitors at Osceola
in the dramatic class were Miss Es
ther Lewellen of Dexter, who won
second place, Miss Violet Murfield of
Logan and Miss Mary Wilson of Col
lege Spring. Miss Bloom, of Des
Moines, who trained the Leon High
trained the young man from Valley
Junction who won first place at
ola in the Oratorical class, and Miss
place in the dramatic class.
The visiting superintendents and
contestants wete
Barker, attorneys for plaintiff.
Oats Being Sowed Early.
this section.—Garden Grove Express.
L. L. Gammon, of Eden
learn of her demise.
Had a Splendid Sale.
,, .. The following cases have been dis
School1 for their school contests, also
royally
entertained
New Court Cases.
1
IN THE DISTRICT COURT
Trial Jury Discharged Yesterday.
No Jury Cases Were Tried at
This Term of Court.
District court is still in session, but
will probably adjourn today or to
morrow for the term. The trial jury
of thirty-six members were summon
ed to appear on Monday of this week,
but were discharged for the term
yesterday morning, the one jury case
set for trial being continued on ac
count of motion being filed which
raised new issues in the case, that of
J. B. Debolt, of Tuskeego, against an
insurance company.
The grand jury completed their
work on last Wednesday and were
discharged. Th6y returned two in
dictments at this session, but neither
of them have yet been made public.
The court appointed Dr. Enos
Mitchell to make an examination of
Stella Collins, a deformed child, and
upon his report ordered that the
child be taken to the state hospital
at Iowa City for treatment.
Several cases have been tried to
the court during the past week, which
were taken under advisement and no
decisions have been rendered in
them, among them the case of Riley
Buchanan vs. E. E. Keller, in which
plaintiff sued for a commission on
the sale of a farm.
poge(j 0« sjnce our
1
OSC-J-
Lewellen, of Dexter, who won second Pnd
report last week:
CRIMINAL.
Jack Adair.' Written
State vs.
plea of guilty to charge of assault
featt|ry fined ?25
State vs. Alva Cox. Written plea
gujity
of carrv concealed weapons,
an fin(fd $200
at Osceola, a fine banquet being ser- .n jnstaiiments of $15 per month,
to them in the dining room of the state vs. M. E. Parsons. Written
new Presbyterian church.
defendant to pay fine
pjea oj, gujitv 0f
Ed H. Sharp vs. David G. Fisher & on motion of county attorney. I
Co. owners of the Leon Electric Co. State vs. Dan Downey. Plea of
Plaintiff in his petition avers that he guilty of keeping a gambling house,
is the owner of a farm iif Leon con- fined $200.
sisting of 105 acres and that several In the injunction suits brought
years ago. he set out and planted a against M. E. P.arsons and Dan Dow
row of trees in front of his land for ney to~ restrain them from selling
a distance of about one-fourth of a liquor, permanent injunctions were
mile, and that on March 27th the de- issued, the county attorney being al
fendants by its employes cut, injured lowed a fee of $25 in each case. I
and destroyed a number of .said trees LAW AND EQUITY. I
unnecessarily and unlawfully, by T. A. Sutlierlin vs. B. F. Sutherlin,1
which the plaintiff was damaged in dismissed.
the sum of $500. That said company W. A Roberts vs. Belle Roberts,
were requested and notified not to dismissed at plaintiffs cost. I
cut or in any manner interfere with Covington & Estes vs. H. J. O'Neil
said trees, and notwithstanding such and O. P. Jamison. Jury waived and
notice they proceded to cut, disfigure, case tried to court. Judgment fori
injure and practically desti»Kjymg£,. Plaintiff for apiount $f one, prom.is-4
ber of said trees and plaintiff believes &ory note.' The court finds that the'
they will continue to do so in the note was' without consideration and
future and unless enjoined from so procured by fraud, which was known
doing by the court. That said trees to defendant, Jamison, at the time
were planted years prior to the time he took the same. If defendant Jam
the defendants erected their electric ison pays the judgment then the
light lines along said highway, that judgment against O'Neil shall be can-1
plaintiff had a legal right to plant celled. If the defendant O'Neil pays
said trees and that defendants have the judgment then he shall have I
no legal rights to erect or maintain judgment against Jamison for the
an electric light line in a public high- amount so paid.
way in the state of Iowa. Plaintiff Farmers & Traders State Bank vs.
asks for juugment in the sum of $500 J. M. Caster et al., judgment and de
and a temporary injunction restrain- cree.
ing defendants from molesting, cut-1 J. Q. Adams vs. Helen Adams, de
ting, destroying or in any manner in- cree of divorce granted.
terfering with said trees and that New England Factories Co. vs. Ed
upon final hearing the injunction be Spencer et al., dismissed as to L. Os
made permanent. Marion Woodard, terkamp.
Baker & Parrish, V. R. McGinnis and I Maud Judson vs. Mabel Noftsger.
Ed H. Sharp, attorneys for plaintiff.
gelling liquor, fined
$200.
State vs. Dan Downey. Dismissed
Settled and dismissed.
Judge Maxwell issued a temporary-in-! C. W. Sutherlin vs. L. Osterkamp.
junction as asked for by the plaintiff. Dismissed at plaintiff's cost.
John T. Robertson et al vs. J. W. James Bower vs. I. C. Walker et
Davis. Suit is on a promissory note al. Settled and dismissed. Report
for $920. Ed H. Sharp and C. W. of E. A. Lockwood, receiver, approv
Hoffman, attorneys for plaintiff. ed.
J. G. Long vs. T. B. and lea Mur- A. Weber & Co. vs. James Bower
phy. Suit is brought on a note for 'et al. Dismissed as to I. C. Walker.
$209.10. Varga & Son, attorneys for Adrain Fence Co. vs. James Bower
plaintiff. ®et al. Dismissed as to 1. C. Walker.
Clara T. Hobin vs. L. E. Francis. I PROBATE.
Suit is brought to set aside a deed Estate of John W. Keeler, final re
to a farm alleged to have been
port
fraudulently delivered to defendant, Estate of Henry Binning, fin^l re
and in lieu of this that plaintiff be p0rt approved, executor discharged,
awarded damages in the sum of $10,- Estate of Lovina Osborn, report of
000. Stuart & Stuart, and Peters &
Qf
*. idoubt receive the united support of
Death of Mrs. Kittle Arbogast.
tke
township,
has received the sad news of the death and his merits and fitness for the of
of his sister, Mrs. Kittie Arbogast, Ace are well known and appreciated,
at her home in Los Angeles, Califor- a democrat is to be chosen for the
nia, on March 21st. The deceased was Place, there are few in
born and raised in Decatur county, would excel him in capability, honesty
being a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. an^ f'ie
W. Gammon, and moved to California essential in the makeup of an official
some years ago. Her husband pass- is to be entrusted with the im
ed away in November, 1897. Many portant offices of that position. Deca
old friends here will be sorry to tur county people will be fortunate if
There was an immense crowd at
the big cloBing out sale of W. H. Haz
let. of southeast of Leon last Thurs- ...
day, and everything sold well,
the
sale amounting ip something Qver
$7,000. Mr. Hffflet did not sell any
of his pure bred cattle
at
this sale,
only some stock cattle. We are sorry
to learn that he contemplates re
moving to Colorado where he will
engage in stock raising.
"Meet ode at Cherrington's."^-
approved, executor discharged,
saie all(j
Oats are being sowed the earliest
this season they have for many years. ,«ionA
Wes Warrington of High Point, we Pointed guardian with bond of $1300.
are told, sowed oats last Wednesday,! Estate of Elmer Smith. Roy Ha 1
March 15th, and there are many oth- appointed administrator with bond of
ers who have tneir oats in the .... ,,r,u
ground. The farmers are generally! Stone. Will
sowing the oats rather thick on ac- Probated. R. B. Stone appointed ex
count of the general bad condition ecutor without bond.
of the seed. Some became discourag-
1
FneBt
ed on the oats proposition last year,
and are cutting them out this season. jn iast week's Leon Reporter E. J.
Every once in a while we hear a Wilson of Woodland township, was
farmer deny there being any profit announced as a candidate before the
in an oats crop, yet we have to have Democratic primaries in June for
them in the usual crop rotation in
deed to Robert McCartney
approved.
Estate of J. O. Steen, final report
approved, administrator discharged.
Guardianship of Garland and Sus
an Keshlear, Althea Keshlear ap
Wilson for County Supervisor.
member
of the Board of Supervisors
Decatur county, and he will no
Democrats in this portion of De-
catur County, where lie is best known
the county who
an(*
8°°^
Kaamh /if annai«triaAiifi
nO
their board of supervisors slftmld be
composed of members as reliable
and well equipped for the duties as
Elmer Wilson.—Lineville Tribune.
Marriage Licenses.
Owen Chew, HopevlUe
Edith Boles, Grand River ...
Ralph Brenizer, Davis City
Ruth Snethen, Davis City
Everett Seymour,. Davis City
Cecil Butcher, Decatur ...
Charlie C. Smith, Lineville
Minnie Lock, Lineville ...
Wm. A. Davis, Leon/..
Nellie Fitch, Davis City
2 2
.20
.28
.21
.25
.20
2x
.18
.23
2 2
I,
TABERNACLE MEETINGS.
They are Growing aqri Are Attended
l»y Large Crowds Every Day.
Large Number of Converts.
The meetings at the tabernacle still
hold the center of interest for Leon.
Sunday was the end of the second
week of the campaign and the num
ber of converts then was more than
one hundred and fifty the first invi
tation being, given Thursday.
Notwithstanding one of the worst
wind and rain storms that Leon has
experienced this year, yet a goodly
number braved their way to the big
tabernacle and listened to an impres
sive sermon from Mr. Harper on the
"Second Coming of Christ." In the
afternoon a fine body cf men gather
ed at the tabernacle to hear Mr.
Frank Daggart tell his life story and
restoration from strong d^rink. He
said that he became so addicted to
drink that he had to give up his busi
ness and the doctors said that his
next drunk would send him either to
the asylum or the cemetery. It was
at that time that Mr. Harper got hold
of him and he was converted. Now he
rejoices to tell what Jesus has done
for him and is president of one of
the largest Bible classes in the state.
Mr. Harper then preached a great
sermon on "Booze" and at the close
of his sermon twelve men went for
ward and confessed Christ as their
Savior. At the same time Mrs. Mar
shall Chilcott of Fairfield and super
intendent of the poor for Jefferson
unty, addressed a woman's meet
ing at the Christian church. The at
tendance was large and Mrs. Chilcott
gave an excellent address.
Sunday evening the tabernacle was
well filled and at the close of Mr.
Harper's sermon on "Ahab and Jeze
bel," more than thirty went forward,
that is, "hit the saw dust trail" or
glory trail" as Billy Sunday and
Reign Scoville put it.
Tuesday night of last week was
High School night and each class was
there in full force and with their
class yells too. A two dollar prize
was offered*.to the class having the
best yell. The yells were fine and
the competition was sharp. The Sen
iors succeeded in winning the prize.
The Odd Fellows lodge was out in
full force also Tuesday night and had
with them a goodly delegation from
both Davis City and Decatur City.
Weanesday evening a big crowd came
to hear Mr. Harper's sermon on
amusements. Mr. Harper did not
leave any one in doubt as to his views
on what he classed as three great
evils, namely, card playing, dancing
and the meatre. Considerable com
ment has been made upon the ser
mon both pro and con. Thursday ev
-Kuinfc the first invitation jsvas given_
or persons to come forward and ac
cept Christ. Eight responded to the
invitation. Twenty four children were
converted at the children's meeting
that afternoon at the Brethren
church. Two other men, Mr. Harris
and Mr. Ward of the team were here
Thursday evening and gave short
talks. Mr. Ward spoke at the meet
ing Friday evening, he having been
a resident of Leon forty years ago,
being a clerk in the hotel here. Mr.
Ward is now a lumberman at Fair
field and Mr. Harris is a blacksmith.
Special announcement had been
made for the "farmer's meeting" for
Saturday evening but the rain and
mud kept many farmers away. How
ever the program was carried out as
planned. A bale of hay served as the
pulpit, pitchforks and shovels were'
stacked on the platform, also a crate
of potatoes, turnips and apples were
in evidence. Mr. Scott, "The Big
Swede" wore overalls and sang a solo
"The Farmer." Several of the preach
ers imagined themselves farmers and
appeared in overalls. The business
men's meetings in the morning are at
tracting many and the cottage pray
er meetings are reporting good attend
ance and increasing interest. The
attendance at the tabernacle was
somewhat checked by the rains the
latter part of the week but the crowd
ed tabernacle Sunday night but indi
cates what the attendance will be this
week if weather permits. Much com
ment is being made on the large
number of converts for the four days.
$80,000 Farm Deal.
The past week the Churcliill
Hedges farm deal was completed and
all the papers signed up and posses
sion of the farm will be given soon.
Mr. .Churchill bought this 583 acre
farm west of town of Mr. Bayles a
few years ago for ^48.50 an acre, and
sells it to Clarence Hedges, of Anita,
Iowa, for a little under $T)0 per acre,
taking in exchange a 160 acre farm
at Anita, of Mr. Hedges at $175 per
acre. Mr. Hedges will move to the
farm at once, however Cliff Churchill
has all the far mland rented of Mr.
Hedges tor the season. Mr. Church
ill has not made up his mind what he
will do.
Barbour & Still made this deal and
it has been handled in an excellent
manner.—Garden Grove Express.
During February, the shortest
month of the year, 3,384 pensioned
soldiers of the civil war, and 2,298
of the widows of veterans, are record
ed as having died in the twenty-nine
days. In January, the next preced
ing month, the loss was 3,855 veter-j
as and 2,i04 widows. In the two
months a total of 11,641 civil war
soldiers and their widows passed
from the rolls of the living. At. this
rate tl\e mortality among civil war
soldiers and widows would be 69,000
for the year. On Feb. 29 the civil
war pensioners numbered 374,848,
which is all that remain of the more
than two million enlisted.
T. J. Smith was showing us Satur
day a test of home grown corn that
tested out 100 per cent. This corn
was rair ed on his farm south of town
and Js the best test wo have heard of
so far this year.—Lamonl Chronicle.
LEON, IOWA, THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 1916. VOLUME LXII, NO. 33.
I
TWENTYFIVE YEARS AGO
Items Taken from the Files of Tha
Reporter Published a Quarter
of a Century Ago.
I Floyd, the five year old son of Mr.
and Mrs. John Snyder died on March
27th.
I The following marriage licenses
were issued the past wek:
Wesley R. Annitage 21 to Jennie
B. Denham 18.
J. A. Daniels 22 to Emma Rosen
grant 20.
D. W. Potts 20 to Maggie Chap
man 16.
Truman Green 24 to Emma E.
Jackson 14.
Alt' Bigley's sheperd dog went mad
or was suffering from a dose of pois
on Tuesday and had several fits on
Main street. He was finally killed
by a bullet from deputy sheriff Ledg
erwood's revolver. Alf mourns the
loss of his dog, but many a country
dog which has been whipped by him
will say amen.
A little daughter was born to Mr.
and Mrs. Mart Pickering Monday ev
ening.
Lewis J. Rumley, an old and well
known citizen of this county, died at
his home northwest of Leon last
Monday. He had been sick a long
time and his deatu was not unexpect
ed.
Mr. Dan W. Potts and Miss Mag
gie Chapman were married at the
home of James Wakefield, just west
of Leon on Sunday by Elder F. C.
Watkins.
John C. Roberts aged 23 years, 7
months and 5 days, died at the home
of his mother, Mrs. Mary Roberts, in
this city March 27th. He had been
in failing health for a number of
months.
Last Friday a farmer came to
town with a sled, attached to which
were eight horses. For a load he
had a little "jag of hay and a few
bushels of corn, but it was all the
horses could haul. If he had fed his
teams from the load we will venture
to say tney could have eaten It all
and not foundered themselves.
James and John Hurst are spend
ing a weeK with tlieir cousins in
Kansas City.
We are pleased to learn that Bert
Eiker is somewhat improved
Mrs. Sallie Coyne and baby, who
have been visiting for several weeks
in I^eon, left for Huron, S. D., Mon
day, where Mr. Coyne is engaged in
the tailor business.
Bert Howard, a former Leon boy,
now connected with the Hiawatha,
Kansas, World, spent a few
,stin..their
hopes are now entertained for his One hundred and fourteen fresh
recovery. I men have already handed in their
Miss Bird Parker, of Davenport, names at athletic headquarters with
arrived in Leon last Thursday for a
visit with her aunt, Mrs. H. J. Close.
With relatives and friends in Leon ding at their home at 261« Dean Ave.,
the past week. in Des Moines, on Tuesday.
A birthday party was given for Dr. Mr. McGrew was born in Washing
J. H. Robinson, of Davis City, by his ton county, Indiana, August. 24,
wife, among other presents Dr. re-|183S. He moved with his parents to
ceived 45 pair of hose. Mrs. Robinson I Knox county, Illinois, in 1849, where
will not have to do any darning for, he resided for thirty-three years. It
a while at least. I wns there he met and wedded Miss N.
r. Lutz, who was born in Pittsburgh,
*!OS1eu'rtn rr.A I
p:!r loans are nearly $900,000,-i
and $200,000,00 of cash
must be reckoned with.
New .Serial at Idle Hour Pleases.
ious disappearance of Mary is ex
plained. Her attorney and sweet
heart, Philip Langdon is the only one
who believes in her innocence, Mary
herself being almost convinced that
she .is guilty. Popular matinee at 3
o'clock, admission to all 5 cents.
Three shows will be given in the ev
ening, the first starting at 7 o'clock.
Night prices 5 and 10 cents.
Well Satisfied.
We desire to publicly state that we
have received very satisfactory settle
ments on our insurance policies for
our recent losses by fire, through the
local agency of Pease & Pease, of
Leon. We could not have asked for
better treatment than that accorded
us by these gentlemen, and recom
mend them to all parties, who want
insurance which really insures.
A Personal Appeal.
If the preacher at the tabernacle
should hold up a flag—an American
flag—and ask you to come up that
your home and country needed you,
a
shout that would almost raise the
roof of the old tabernacle would go
up from the men, women and chil
dren, and you would come forward in
enthusiasm to defend that home and
country. Now, wouldn't you, my
brother? But the appeal that falls
on deaf ears night after night to
come up and accept Jesus Christ is
just as important to you and to your
country as the first call above men
tioned. A christian nation is just as
good a safeguard against a foreign or
any other foe as a great army. The
best preparedness for you, my broth
er, is a christian life. It is not only
good for you here but it is equally
good for the hereafter. The history
of the world shows that the chris
tian nation is the most powerful. It
is safe from foes without and dis
sentions and rebellions within. Then,
if you are wanting to strengthen this
great country of ours the best thing
for you to do is to accept Jesus Christ
and live a christian life. You can
best preserve, protect and defend
your country by such a life for above
all nations the christian nation stands
and the gates of hell shall not pre
vail against it.
'ears
an(j
000, also ajecord.^ Qf their four children three are
fhe:r cash position is trie strong-. jjVjUg and assisted in the celebration
history. of their golden wedding anniversary,
Nanonal banks in that city last Mesaames Ella Anderson and Lottie
week reported deposits of $633,199,- Dailev and Guv McGrew
164, a gain of $72,129,255 since Dec.
31, 1915, and of $132,438,549 since
March 4, 1915, the latter figure rep
resenting an increase of 26.45 per
ten
The national banks' loans amount mer of Leon were happily united in
to $431,179,795, an increase of $39,- marriage Wednesday morning, March
022,000 from the first of the year 22 at 10 o'clock at the home of the
and of 23.94 per cent since March 4, bride's father, G. H. Follmer, just
1915. They are as strong in their north of Leon. Rev. B. Frank Jacobs
cash position now as they were on of the Presbyterian church officiated.
March 4, 1914, when every effort1A large number of relatives and
was being made to build up reserves. I freinds were present to witness thrj
Besides the national bank totals ceremony. A splendid dinner was
the approximate $6?0,000,000 depos-: served and the bride and groom re
its of the state banks, the latter's ceived many valuable presents,
approximate $450,000,000 of loans I The bride is one of Leon's popular
Charles Painter,
p. F. Bradley.
We want your business and will
give you every reasonable banking
courtesy and accommodation. Leon
Sa,u,w
Local Evangelistic Committee.
Italph McGinnis to Coach Michigan
Ball Team.
Ralph McGinnis, of this city, who
is taking a law course at the Michi
gan State University at Ann Arbor,
Michigan, has been selected as coach
of the Michigan base ball team for
this season. Tnis will not interfere
with his studies. The following dis
patch from Ann Arbor tells of his se
lection:
Ann Arbor, Mich., March 25—
Ralph McGinnis, former star athlete
of the University of Iowa, is schedul
ed to coach the Michigan all-fresh
base ball team this season.
McGinnis has been given tempor
ary charge of the freshmen until the
executive committee of the board
meets, when the formal announce
ment of his choice is expected to be
made. He had charge of the reserves
during the foot ball season. McGinnis
was captain of the Iowa foot ball
team two years go and is now taking
and his law work at Michigan.
the intention of trying out. So Mc
Ginnis will have a large squad from
which to select his team.
Former Leon liesidents Celebrate
Golden AVedding.
Mr. and Mrs. J. B. McGrew, for
many years well known residents of
days Leon, celebrated their golden wed-
Bank Deposits Break Becoid. Penna., in 1845. After their mar
riage they resided at Abbington, 1111
Chicago banks now contain the nti8
record-breaking total of approximate-| j30catur
untiI 1882, when
and until a few
ago resided in Leon. Both Mr4
jyjrs McGrew are hale and hear-
Burchett—Folhner.
Mr. Charles A. Burchett of Grand
River and Miss Elizabeth A. Foll-
resources young ladies and one of Decatur
county's prominent school teachers.
She had just closed her school near
Everybody who witnessed the first iarnier living near Van Wert. The
installment of "The Strange Case of young couple will make their honw
Mary Page," at the Idle Hour theatre on the farm. Their many friends
last Thursday was well pleased with wish them success and happiness
the new serial, which promises to be through life.
one of thrilling interest. The second
installment will be shown today, in Hnrtsc-hen—Thompson.
which Mary Page is on trial for the
murder of the man she hates, and In the presence of a few relatives
she does not know whether she pull- and friends Mr. George Hartschen and
ed the trigger that sent the bullet Miss Cora E. Thompson were united
crashing into his heart. The myster- in marriage at 7 o'clock Monday ev-.
Grand River a few days before ibe
wedding. The groom is a successful
ening, March 20, the ceremony and
wedding feast taking place at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. John Hart
schen. Elder H. A. Stebbins offic
iating in the service. The groom
and his fair bride left Lamoni Tuea1
day for a home near Emmerson, Io
wa, where Mr. Hartschen has been
engaged in farming for some time.
May happiness and prosperity be.
theirs.—Lamoni Chronicle.
Two Big Special Feature Plays at the
Idle Hour.
Two big Paramount special feature
plays are booked for the Idle Hour
theatre the coming week. On Fri
day Florence Reed appears in the
great drama, "The Dancing Girl,"
and on Monday evening of next week
kacklyn Arbuckle is the star in "It's
No Laughing Matter. These are two
of the very best pictures which have
been produced by the Paramount
Company. Popular matinees will be
given both Friday and Monday after
noons at 3 o'clock. First evening
shows start at 7 o-clock, prices 10
and 15 cents., .•
Urn
I
I
fi
.4
4*
fa
1
I
-M
1
41 gi
ll
41
:T1i?
4
\4i
It
jf*5
they came to
COunty,
ijl
-II'
fi
'fi
'l| if
"#a
I
j".
•'4$
-M
1
