VOL. XXI, NO. 41.
IAL CLUB
DIRECTORS ACTIVE
SEASON'S WORK PLANNED AT
MONDAY MEETING—TO HAVE
A PAID SECRETARY
Commercial Club Directors Active
The Directors of the Commercial
Club met in their regular weekly
meeting Monday night and went over
many matters in connection with the
plans for the years work. Inasmuch
as the sentiment has been practically
unanimous in favor of securing a paid
secretary of experience the Directors
have been in correspondence with sev
eral prospective applicants for the po
sition. Some high class men have
been recommended and while no se
lection has as yet been made the Di
rectors believe it will be possible to
secure a man who will meet their
rigid requirements.
Good Roads will be one of the Clubs
slogans for 1916. This work will be
done under the leadership of the Good
Roads Committee of which Mr. C. A.
Mansfield, Mr. A. F. Burk and Mr. J.
Arthur Cunningham will act as the
Director members. At a special meet
ing of this Committee Mr. Mansfield
was selected as Chairman and his par
ticular job this year will be to build
good roads in all directions from Wii
liston. There is no more persistent
good roads enthusiast anywhere than
Mr. Mansfield and he has two able as
sistants in Mr. Burk and Mr. Cun
ningham. They will appoint the bal
ance of the Committee from Club
members later on and will be glad in
the meantime to receive any and all
suggestions as to who would be most
desirable committee members—men
who are really interested in seeing
good roads a reality instead of a
theory and who will do their full share
to help get them. Send your good
roads suggestions to Chairman Mans
field and they will be given full con
sideration.
Co-operation between Wiiliston and
the surrounding country will also re
ceive the Clubs endorsement and ac
tive support this year. For this par
ticular purpose a Better City and
Farmer Cooperation Committee has
been appointed with G. B. Metzger as
Chairman and M. J. Borden and J. W.
Jackson as Director members. They
will largely increase this membership
from the Club and will have active
charge of such work as the Commer
cial Club may do in connection with
the Better Farming movement in Wil
liams and McKenzie counties, the
Wiiliston Irrigation project, City
Market and Farmers Rest Room and
all matters which tend toward better
co-operation between the City and
country people who so largely support
it.
In the City itself such matters as a
City Beautiful, City parks and Play
grounds, Clean Up—Paint Up and
Dress Up Week, and those things
which go to better Civic conditions
will be under the direct supervision of
a Civic Improvement Committee of
which Mr. W. H. Westergaard will act
,as Chairman and Dr. F. W. MacManus
and J. W. Jackson as Director mem
bers, to be enlarged by other appoint
ments later on. This Committee will
co-operate with the City Commission
and all other organizations engaged in
Civic improvement work.
The business and industrial inter
ests of the City will be looked after
by the Business and Industrial Devel
opment Committee with L. C. Win
gate as Chairman and S. M. Hydle
and J. W. Jackson as Director mem
bers and others to be added from the
general Club membership. The work
of this Committee will be strenuous
as a number of matters of vital im
portance to Wiiliston are already be
fore it, not the least of which is the
general railway situation.
A Publicity Committee with Direc
tor Geo. Farries as Chairman will
undertake to give Wiiliston the ad
vertising she deserves and he will
have as assistants a number of the
most active publicity and advertis
ing men in the City to be found among
five committees with the active
Chairman and two additional mem
bers from the Board of Directors has
been adopted after full consideration
of the methods heretofore followed.
Whatever comes before the Club will
be referred to the proper Committee
where it will be investigated and a re
port made to the Board of Directors
and by them to the entire Club.
In order to make the Commercial
Club fully representative of all in
terests in the City each organization
(Continued on page 4)
EVERYONE VOTE ON
SCHOOL BOND ISSUE
SPECIAL SCHOOL BOND ELEC
TION FRIDAY, MARCH 31ST
—ALL URGED TO VOTE
Did the framers of our Constitution
recognize as a fact that when mat
ters of school concern are at issue,
about the best "citizens" of the state
are the women? At any rate States
Attorney Owens gives assurance that
the women of the city are all first
class citizens for the one day Friday,
March thirty first and as citizens
should exercise their right of fran
chise, in voting upon the question, of
bonds for the new school building.
It is reported that this week in
common with practically every other
week of the school year has seen sev
eral new pupils entered as students in
the city schools. On Monday seven
children enrolled—and they represent
three new families recently moved
into the city. The enrollment for the
year is at present nine hundred seven
ty four. It appears quite possible
that the thousand mark will have
been reached by the close of the school
year.
The need for the new school build
ing is based upon the fact that while
every room of every building is now
in use, two more rooms must be pro
vided for third grades next year, and
one more room for the Junior High
School, while the Senior High School
should have further room for develop
ment. The increase in the number of
grades will have to be continued each
year for several years evidently ac
cording to the enrollment in several
of the lower grades. The records of
the advanced departments of the
schools show these two commendable
and instructive facts:—that a very
high per centage of the pupils finish
ing the eighth grade in the city
schools, continue their work by enter
ing the high school and in both
Junior High School and Senior High
School very few pupils leave school
during the school year without ac
ceptable reasons,—there is a mini
mum of vagrancy and irregular at
tendance.
While it is true that the women of
the city have the privilege of the
franchise on Friday, the duty should
not be laid on their shoulders alone.
The bond issue is an important ques
tion, the erection of a school build
ing a worthy enterprise the few
minutes required for the casting of
your vote will mean much for the
schools.
Junior Class Musical
Pleases Audience
The program given by Miss Adda
Blakeslee and Miss Mildred Allen of
the Dakota Conservatory of Music at
Fargo was worthy of a much larger
audience than assembled at the Con
gregational Church Tuesday evening
to hear it. The Juniaor class of the
High School, under whose auspices it
was given, were out in full force, but
the superior attractions of Robin
Hood kept many others away, evi
dently.
Miss Blakeslee opened the pro
gram with a group of songs Ameri
can, German, Russian, English, Nor
wegian and Welsh. Liszt's "Lorelei"
was perhaps the most exacting num
ber in the group, giving both singer
and accompanist a large opportunity
for interpretation. The two' Grieg
numbers, "The Primrose" and "The
Swan" were charming in their haunt
ing, elusive feeling.
Miss Allen proved herself a pianist
of unusual ability and though Liszt's
Second Hungarian Rhapsodie was the
master-piece of her evening's pro- prjce
gram, demanding all the skill and re-
mafid, her other numbers were de-
lightfully interpreted and heartily ap
plauded, particularly Chopin's "But
terfly."
Miss Blakeslee's Irish, Scotch and
Southern songs were given in cos
tume and the old favorites were thor
oughly enjoyed as she gave them with
delightful ease and simplicity.
BOOKS FINE PLAYS
J. Walker McGuiness returned last
week from a several days business
trip to the cities. During his trip
Mr. McGuiness informs us he was suc
cessful in booking several fine attrac
tions for the Orpheum. Mr. Mc
Guiness is always on the lookout for
the best of good things in the Movie
line to bring to Wiiliston.
MRS. LaDUE HAS LET CONTRACT
FOR $40,000 STRUCTURE ON
WEST BROADWAY
Last Saturday the contract was let
for the erection of a modern apart
ment building to be known as the
LaDue flats in this city, and which
Each apartment will contain the
latest in sanitary wall-beds. The bed-
The laundry is located in the base
ment and contains built-in tubs and
dryers and a clothes chute from every
apartment to the laundry. There will
be a delicatessen located in the base
ment for the convenience of those who
prefer to dine out rather than to pre
pare meals in their apartments. There
will also be a front door control from
every apartment. The heating plants
and other equipment will also be the
on the
serve force at the musicians com- j^y
Wiiliston GrapKic
CITY BEAUTIFUL CONTEST
Plans are being perfected by a committee of ladies working in conjunc
tion with the Commercial Club for holding a City Beautiful Contest in Wii
liston during the coming summer, and while the details have not been en
tirely worked out the tentative is as follows:
The contest will be open to everyone. However the homes where there
are no children of school age will be ligibl for honorable mention only as a
reward of merit, as the prizes will in every instance be awarded to the chil
dren contestants. The amounts of the prizes will be as follows:
First—Ten dollars in gold.
Socond—Five dollars in gold.
Third—Three dollars.
Fourth—Two dollars.
Fifthto Tenth inclusive—One dollar each.
To become a contestant all you have to do is to make your own yard as
beautiful as you can and the worse condition it is in to start with the better
chance you have of winning, as the degree of improvement will have consid
erable weight in the final scoring. Those who &nter the contest after June
1st will not receive as many points on the degree of improvement as those
who start earlier, but arrangements will be made which will give an equal
chance to become prize winners.
In scoring the judges will consider the following points: Degree of im
provements bird houses gardens, both vegetable and flower lawns, trees
and shrubs, alleys and back yards, boulevards, and the general inspection.
The Civic Improvement Committee of the Commercial club, with a com
mittee of the women, will act as judges.
Inspection will be made in May when entering the contest and again in
the middle of the summer and again the first of September when the contest
closes.
BIRD HOUSES FIRST
In scoring the bird houses the judges will consider them from an artistic
standpoint, the practicability and whether or not they have a tenant. Pic
tures of bird houses will be exhibited at the schools, and at the various
stores, and these will aid in designing the ones you may wish to build.
Those in charge of the contest are making an effort to procure free seeds
for contestants, but as to whether this will be possible or not cannot be defi
nitely stated at this time, bu if is possible procure them ample announce
ment of the time and place will be given later.
Do not lose sight of the fact that no matter how bad your place looks
to begin with you have an equal oportunity with those who have been beau
tifying their yards for several years. Watch the papers for suggestions and
information pertaining to this contest.
Let everybody do it for Wiiliston!
MODEM APARTMENTS
TO BE VUHT HERE
will be probably the most modernly held a week ago Tuesday. With the
equipped structure of the kind in the exception of the democratic party
state. The building will be located at I where interest in John Bruegger's
the northwest corner of Washington candidacy for national committeeman
and Broadway streets on the property brought out a somewhat larger vote,
now occupied by the LaDue cottage. the number of ballots cast is only a
It will be the first metal-lumber struc-1 fraction of the normal vote.
ture to be erected in the state. The With only a few precincts missing
walls will be fireproof and the floors jn the state the friends of H. H. Per
will be steel dusted, and the plaster-
building, and G. J. Harding of
was aW
can
chests under the dressing tables and their candidate.
in the window. The kitchenettes will
contain built-in sideboards and a com
plete electric stove equipment. The
ice box service will be direct to each
apartment.
very latest and most efficient that. REPUBLICAN TICK FT
architects and engineers can devise,
The structure was planned by R. B.1
Stacv-Judd of Minot and the contract
was
just £.50 below his estimate
arded the contract at
the price of $39,950.
Such a buildiny as this is one of th
modern conveniences of which Willis
ton has long been in need as there are
quite a number of families who would
much rather rent a modern apart
ment than be obliged to use a detach
ed house or a flat without modern con
veniences. No doubt there are quite
a number of families here who were
accustomed to a home in an apart
ment building before coming to this
city and who will welcome the oppor
tunity of again taking up their resi
dence in such a convenient place as
the new LaDue Flats will be.
But the pessimist, you know, sees
an opportunity after the optimist has
grasped it.
WILLISTON, WILLIAMS COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 1916. $1.00 PER YEAR IN ADVANCE
Those who desire to enter the contest should make arrangements for put- popular vote open to both men and
ting up their bird houses the first thing they do with reference to the contest,
as they should be out within the next wo or hree weeks. Plan enter this
useful contest and begin right now.
LIGHT VOTE CAST IN
PREFERENCE PRIMARY
LA FOLLETTE WINS S TO 1 OVER
EASTBROOK—BRUEGGER
LOSES TO PERRY.
With little interest in the results
and unfavorable weather conditions
a light vote was cast in Williams
county at the presidential primaries
0
ing will be on steel lath. The roof 1 f0r their candidate over Bruegger of
and floors are to be of the latest fire-1 this city by a plurality of aproxi
proof construction. mately 175 votes. The Bruegger sup
porters have little hope that the re
turns from the remaining precincts
rooms will contain built-in dressing
Ellendale are claiming victory
cut this lead sufficiently to elect
County Official Vote
LaFollette's lead over Estabrook is
approximately three to one through
out the state. Gunder Olson of Aneta
former state treasurer was easily
elected national committeeman of the
Republican party over William Lemke
of Fargo, the candidate endorsed by
the Non-Partisan league. Progres
sive Republicans claim the election of
the entire list of delegates to the na
tional convention which was endorsed
by their executive committee.
Following is the vote in Williams
county ag compiled by County A
1'or
udi-
tor Aaen from the officia] returns:
™Bdeilt
a 0
Estabrook 77
National Committeeman
Olson 284
Lemke
158
Delegates to National Convention
Bowman 21«
Weber 179
Braatelien 305
Hamnes "W
Burtness 213
Converse 235
Halvorson 282
McCormick 181
Useelman 120
Pollock 222
Tschida 108
Turner. 205
Harty 153
Johnson 248
Kretschmar 102
Walton 173
(Continued on page 10)
WHAT SHALL WE NAME
OUR WILLISTON TEAM
BASE BALL OFFERS A PRIZE
FOR A COMMUNITY SUGGEST
ED AND "ELECTED" NAME
Send all suggestions to J. P. Cut
ting, secretary, Wiiliston, N. D., and
mark the outside of your envelope
"Base ball name."
All suggestions must be in the
hands of the secretary not later than
Monday evening, April 17, 1916. Any
received later will not be considered.
All suggestions will remain unopened
until after that date. Each will be
marked with date of receipt.
All suggestions that meet the above
requirements will be listed without
the names of suggestors and given to
three distinguished judges who will
select the three, or more, they con
sider the best.
Chance To Vote
If two or more contestants offer the
same name the one received first will
have the preference.
The name adopted will be chosen
from those selected by the judges by
women under regulations to be an
nounced later.
The person who suggests the win
ning name will receive a season pass
good for all games played by the
team at home this season. The four
persons suggesting the other four
names selected by the judges, to be
voted on, will each receive a pass good
for three home games.
Note the rules carefully and re
member that April 17 is the last day
to send in names.
Wanted—a name for a fast semi-pro
fessional base ball team. Anyone
knowing of a nifty handle, suitable for
such use should communicate with the
Wiiliston Base Ball Board.
The board believes that some sort
of designation less formal than the
Wiiliston base ball club would be ac
ceptable to the patrons of the pastime
—something free and easy with the
air of friendly familiarity about it.
Over fh the big leagues they have the
Millers, the Saints, the Cubs, the
White Sox, the Tigers, the Giants, the
Athletics, the Braves, the Senators,
etc. In Fargo they root for the
Graingrowers, in Minot for the Magi
cians. What shall we call 'em in Wii
liston
Prize For a Name
The board has decided to put the
matter up to the community—ask for
suggestions from the fans of both
town and country—and give a prize
for the winning suggestion.
Here are the rules of the game:
What is wanted is a name that is
catchy and appropriate and which
help toward advertising the team and
the community. It must consist of
but one word (not counting the "the")
but may be a newly coined word or
a compound word. A boys team has
already taken the name "Indians" so
don't suggest that.
Suggestors may state, briefly, if
they wish, why they consider their
suggestion appropriate.
Eight Mile Club Has
Meeting At Trenton
Every meeting a big meeting, is the
boast of the Eight Mile Farmers club.
Despite weather conditions, bad roads,
etc., the meeting held at Trenton last
Saturday capped the climax both as
to attendance and interest shown.
Miss Retslaff of the State Agricul
tural College gave a very interesting
and instructive talk on Home Topics.
Supt. Ruzicka of the Wiiliston sub
station, who recently returned from a
two months work on reports at Wash
ington, also was present and gave a
timely talk on the work of the depart
ment. At a prior meeting officers
were elected for the ensuing year as
follows
Smith Peterson 157 11he company's vards at Berthold. Both
David King, President Har­
ry Snell, Secretary and Mrs. J. A.
Beisel, Treasurer.
Rogers Lumber Co,
I Promotes Employees
H. E. Foley, well known in this
city, and for the past year in charge
of the Ropers Lumber Co. yards at
Wheelock, has received notice of his
t'-ansferment to the management of
Mr. and Mrs. Foley have made many
warm friends during their residence
at Wheelock all of whom wish them
continued prosperity in their new
home.
Ed Walls who has been employed
in the company's yards in this city
has been selected to take Mr. Foley's
place at Wheelock.
I
SCHOOL SAVINGS BANK
SYSTEM FOR WIILISTON
FIRST INSTITUTION OF KIND IN
THE STATE WILL OPEN HERE
ON SATURDAY, APRIL 1ST
For several months the City schools
have had under consideration the es
tablishment of a school savings bank
system. A change in the system
adopted has delayed the actual work
but all supplies are now at hand and
the bank will be started at once. The
plans are that a large number of
school pupils shall start their savings
accounts on Saturday, April first.
With their characteristic enterprise
and desire for the promotion of all
activities for community good the
three banks of the city have joined
their forces with the schools and are
pushing the schools Savings Bank
system enthusiastically.
So far as statistics show, Wiiliston
will be the only city in the state hav
ing a School Savings Bank system in
which all the banks of the city unite
with the schools. This union of in
terests together with the encourage
ment from the homes should make a
record of children's savings that will
be of worthy proportions.
Under this new plan no money is
brought to the schools at all. Pupils
are brought directly in contact with
"their bank'' and learn to make de
posits by themselves and to have their
own pass books.
The system is simple and uncom
plicated. Each pupil wishing to
start a savings account and become
thereby a member of "The All The
Year Thrift Club" goes to the bank
of his choice and upon the deposit of
a dime is given a small envelope
bank. This he takes to his own home
and upon it makes a record each
time he makes a deposit. When he
has saved one dollar by putting the
coins in this envelope-bank, he returns
to the Bank and is given a pass book
or credit slip showing a credit of one
dollar and ten cents—the ten cents
being the dime he had deposited at
first as an evidence of good' feith.
Again he returns home with his en*
velope-bank to save a dollar as soon
as possible at which time he goes
back to the Bank and increases his
deposit.
At the schools the pupils are known
as members of either of two groups:
"Savers" and "Depositors." The
Savers are those who have secured
their envelope bank from the Bank of
their choice and are starting to save
the Depositors are those who having
saved their first dollar have received
their deposit slips or pass books from
the Bank. Many children already
have money of their own, perhaps
kept in top banks at home. It is
hoped that these will all be encour
aged to place these funds in the Sav
ings Bank account. Records are
taken at stated intervals at the
schools, of the number of Savers and
Depositors and records are made of
pupils accounts, in such way as to
prevent any embarrassment. Some
forms of competition will be arrang
ed for the further encouragement of
the plan.
J. P. Morgan when asked, "What
is the best collateral in the world?"
by members of a congressional com
mittee before whom he was testifying,
replied, "Character." And Americans
in common with the rest of the world
are beginning to realize how large a
part genuine thrift-not parsimony
—should play in character building.
Saving is said to be a greater factor
in the accummulation of wealth than
is the ability to earn. Statistics in
dicate that-but three men in a hun
dred in this country are worth a thou
sand dollars.
But a larger value of the "thrift
habit" than the mere money saved, is
found in the lessons of self control
saving, planning, foresight, and many
other allied old fashioned virtues that
are beginning to be recognized as the
foundations of commercial principles,
The City Banks have arranged that
all School Savings Bank Depositors
shall receive five per cent interest
compounded every six months, on
their savings.
The successful issue that is hoped
for as the outcome of this movement
on the part of the Public Schools is
not that several children may be
found who have rather striking
amounts of money in their own names
—laudable as that condition may be—
but rather is it desired that several
hundred children shall be encouraged
to save their neckels and their dimes
here and there, learn the lessons of
(Continued on page 10)
