State Historical Society
aney County Republican
Vol. 'J . V
FORSYTH, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 1910.
Four Pagei.
Washington Letter
( From Our K.-nulnr Curri'sponiU'iit.)
Fake Preparedness: "If Uncle
Sam is going to buy two cowponies to
add to his military establishment the
American people want to know it, and
they do not want to be told that he is
adding a fine team of Percherons,
weighing upwards of 1,800 pounds
apiece. Especially, do they want to
be certain that he is not paying Per
cheron prices for the cowponies. And
yet, the Hay military bill provides for
adding the two ponies, calling them
Percherons and pretty nearly lor pay
ing the price of Percherons. In other
words, the American voters may be di
vided on the advisability and extent of
further preparedness, but they don't
want to be flim-flammed." This state
ment was made to your correspondent
by a member of the Military Commit
tee regarding the Hay bill, which the
House will probably pass this week, a
measure which no other than the new
Secretary of War, Mr. Eaker, has shown
up to be a "fake measure" shrewdly
designed to hide the radical difference
between President Wilson und his par
ty and to dcou've the public.
HAY VS. BAKER: Chairman Hay
opens his report on his Military bill
wfth the statement that it will make
"immediately available 1,324,790
men." Secretary Baker, writing to a
member of Congress, savs that, calcu
lating as Mr Hay calculates, there are
nnw available 1.284,790 men, so that,
"In oth'r wrrds, the only immediate
cff 'Ct of thr. passage f the House Ar
my bill would be the increase of the
regular army by 40,000 men, and even
that incrrase, being added in four
annual increments, wonld require
about four years' time to be recruited
and a still longer time to become ef
fective." Secretary Baker then goes
on to show how ridiculous is the meth
od of figuring employed by Chairman
Hiy. Mr. Hay says the armv reserve
will be 60,000 men. Mr. Baker
proves that it will not equal more than
16,000 men and that even this in
crease will not begin until three years
after the passage of c bill. Mr. Hay
includes in his figures "270,200 form
er regulars." Mr. Baker shows that
cot more than 82,796 such former
regulars would be available and that
even they would require three montl s
intensive training. Mr. Hay includes
395,590 men who in ten years have'
', passed through" the militia. Mr.
Baker poi 's out that Mr. Hay makes
no deductions I r deaths and disabili
ties and inc!ud' in 'he fig re all who
havr bee'. 1 i-vn though they
never serve il hut a d iv nr a fe e days
with thi militia. Mr. Hv includes
330,000 young men who have passed
hrough the military schools Mr.
B;iker shows that this includes all who
v;i it rven t,r-lled, makis no allow
ance lot det'hsand disabilities, and
that ojjly 52,000 of that enrollment
ever graduated. Secretary Baker sums
up the men actually trained (or military
service as follows: regular army, includ
ing Philipine Scouts. 100,000; regular
army reserve, 2,900; partially trained
in the militia, 129,000; others wh"
have had some training, 241,000;
miking a total ( trained and partially
traied ol 473,700 nvn, as against Mr.
Hay's 1,324,790.
President's Bill: When Secre
Baker's exposure of Chairman Hay's
misrepresentations were made in the
House it proved a bombshell in the
Democratic camp. Many Republicans
are opposed to any extravagant in
crease of the army, but none of them
want to be misled or to mislead the
the voters. If a bill is to be passed
which will ad 10,000 men a year for
four years to the army; they want the
fact stated. And they do object to
such a bill bring passed with the state
ment that it will i: crease the available
trained force to upwards of 1,300,000.
Then Mr. Hay in'orm"l the House
m m. riii w ft -inmt vvus't.-s
bill. "It is His uill," ueciared Mr,
Hay. "It carries out the recommend'
ations he roa'le to Coreri. In fart.
it Kt.tt l .ti -,.h: iiv Pr-v.icot ask
it . ' . 1 r, ll
uucb not iuuiku i iic couuucuui army
feature, but the Ptesident, in suggest
ing the continental army feature, was
desirous of some sort of machinery to
make the land forces available in time
of war. He thinks this bill makes the
iNatonai uuara a sufficient lorce m
time of peace to be available as a
fighting force in time of war." Now
"the master's rod" is to be used in
the House and every loyal Democrat
will vote for the bill or be barred from
the White House pie counter.
Preparedness and Politics:
The inside of the preparedness situ
ation is politics, pure and simple.
After vigorously opposing, for nearly
three years, any increase of the mili
tary establishment and telling Congress
and those who advocated it were "ner
vous and hysterical," Mr. Wilson sud
denly decided that his policy was un
popular and as is his custom, without
asking the advice of his party leaders
he declared he was for extensive pre
paredness and made a stumping tour
of the country to advocate it. Demo
cratic politicians say Mr. Wilson con
verted no Democrats to his views and
that those Republicans who applauded
him have always believed in it. They
realize that they must deal with their
constituents who are against prepared
ness of the type advocated by the
President, so they will not vote for it.
Therefore, the administration has set
them the task of passing a measure
which will look enough like actual pre
paredness to save the President's face,
while it actually provides for so little
preparedness that the most pacific
Democratic, or Republican, voter can
not object ot it, That the latter end
was accomplished is shown by the fact
that not a single avowed pacifist on the
Military Committee voted against the
bill. The President's face can be
saved, of course,ouly to the extent that
the advocates of preparednss can be
flim-flammed, and depends entirely on
the intelligence of the voters. As
Mr. Wilson has so long and so success
fully flimflimmed so many voters with
regard to his conduct of foreign rela
tions, he does not place a high esti
mate on the intelligence of the voters
and he is assuring his Democratic
friends in Congress that it is mere
child's play to "fool all of the voters
all of the time."
AN UNJUST TAX: Taking up the
reiterated assertion of the Democrats
that "The tariff is a tax; it is added to
the price of the article; the consumer
pays Jit," Representative Humphrey
scored the Democrats for voting to re
tain a tax of a cent a pound on sugar.
II M -1 I . . 1. L. 1 -1
xuy suuui i uic party mai nas always
posed as a particulat friend of the poor,
the enemy of the rich, levy a tax on
sugar?" he inquired. Certainly sugar
is a necessity. S'igar is life. If you
must levy a tux, why not levy it as
nearly as possible according to the
ability of those to pay it? You have
said ten thousand times that a tariff on
sugar was robbery; that it was an un
just tax which oppressed the poor and
permitted the rich to escape their share
of the burden Naw you propose to
make the poor man pay as much tax
as the rich man. If your statements
in the past have been true, the day
laborer, who gets 2 a day, will pay as
much tax as a bank president. Do
you gentlemen on that side believe
this? Did you ever believe it? Why,
if the Democratic doctrine be true the
man who, amid the dust and smoke of
mill, mine or factory, laboriog ten
hours a day, supporting himself and
his family by the sweat of his brow, will
pay more of this tax than the useless
parasite who spends his unearned mil
lions, who rides in his high powered
auto, feeble mindedly puffing his dop'
ed cigarette, with his childless wife
and her perfumed Pomeranian
G-nttemen, did you ever believe,
what for year.- you have preached, ex
cept during political campaigns when
he fatal hunger lor office was gnaw
ing at your vital-,? I', as you have
always preached, the tariff is a tax, how
dare you impose a tax which falls so
h-avily on the poor man with his large
fouiiiv and so lightly on the rich?
Why hi'' you not the courage of your
convictions? Wny do you not im
pose a direct tax on incomes which
will compel the rich man to pay a
share of the tax in proportion to his
wealth?"
When taxes are paid upon imports
the foreign producer takes that much
less for his product and the importer
pays the tax. It really comes out of
the pocket of the foreigner, except in
the case of commodities not produced
in this country. Democrats claimed,
falsely, that the American consumer
pays tax, but the failure to reduce the
cost of living, when the tariff was taken
off, disproves this theory. In case of
a stamp tax such as we are .now pay
ing, we know absolutely that the
American pays it. People who don't
like stamp taxes can have the import
duties restored, if they vote for candi
dates who believe in that form of reve
nue. The Chicago Convention
The various press agents who are
spinning wild yarns about what will
happen at the Chicago convention
overlook the delegates. There may
have been conventions in which the
delegates played minor parts, assigned
them by leaders. There have been
other conventions in which delegates
merely carried out plain instructions
from the voters. But the Chicago
convention will be composed of dele
gates who will exercise their own
Judgment. White a majotity will be
under instructions from primaries, no
one candidate will have many instruct
ed delegates and few candidates can
ask adherence to instructions after the
early ballots. Long before the con
vention meets delegates under per
functory instructions will be consider
ng the presidential poasibilities.
Talk of the delegates being stam
peded outside inflaence is absurd. Eich
delegate knows more about the senti
ment of the voters he represents than
any outsider. He knows how many
took part in the conventions that elect
ed him. He will know exactly how
much weight to give the claims of
any self constituted delegates who may
try to sway his action. The delegates
will be representative Republicans,
loyal to the party and the country
and familiar with political conditions.
Noise will not affect them. It is pos
sible that some delegates may so im
press his fellows with his ability as to
canse them to turn to him to break a
deadlock. Garfield got his nomination
that way. So did Bryan at Chicago.
Hadley came near doing it in 1912.
But Brjan merely expressed the pre
vailing sentiment of 1896 convention
better than anybody else. He was
was helpless when he fought Parker in
1904. The Underwood and Sullivan
forces thought they were defeating
Bryan's private aspiratiops when they
went to Wilson in 1912. Advocates
of outstanding men, long before the
country, cannot stampede conventions.
Witness the failure of the friends of
Blaine and of Grant. No matter how
drama' ic and spectacular demonstration
may be, delegates ignore them, unless
they happen to be expressive of their
own sentiments. Delegates are sel
dom if ever "converted."
The delegates to the Republican
convention at Chicago will remember
the past and consider the future.
They will do whit they feel will insure
a united Republican party this fall.
But they will make no "deals" with
self-appointed leaders of imaginary
forces. Globe- Democrat.
One apolgist for President Wilson
expresses , the opinion that he will be
benefitted rather than injured by the
failure of some of the measures he
is so deeply interested in getting
through Congress. What a strange
estimate of the intelligence of the
American voter! The President is to
be commend because he fails in his
efforts to pass unwise laws! More
likely the commendation will go to the
men who help defeat the measures, for
that is where the approval should be
given.
The Philadelphia Press speaks of
Secretary Redfield as the tariff compass
of the President. That is enough to
put the ship of State on the rocks.
Missouri's Wilson Platform
The St. Joseph platform may be
construed as an administration sug
gestion as to the substance of the St.
Louis platform. Senator Stone warned
against any deliverance, but former
Gov. Dockery, who is an assistant
postmaster general, is reported to
have brought the planks with him from
Washington. The outstanding feature
is the approval of President Wilson,
past, present and future. Local exig
encies required indorsement of the
Missouri senators and representatives,
although they have several times been
opposed to the views of the president
in statement and occasionally in action.
The president is praised for every
thing. His present vigor and his for
mer paltering in dealing with Mexico
are alike glorified. He is credited
with fearless enforcement ol the Sher
man antitrust law, ''thus breaking up
the oppressive trusts that were born
under Republican rule," although the
government has met repeated defeats
recently and new trusts are forming.
There was no mention of felons' stripes
for trust officials, however. The Un
derwood tariff is praised, without refer
ence to the repeal of its free sugar
clause, once heralded as a monument
al triumph. Nothing is said about
the "war tax." There is an audacious
promise of future economy, to be ac
complished by one big House com
mittee, without explanation of why no
start has yet been made on the "re
turn to simplicity and economy which
befits a democratic government" the
Democrats were so eager to begin in
1912.
With a wTy lace the Democrats vot
ed approval of the tariff commission
bill "to provide the means of protect
ing American manufacturers against
any emergency which may follow the
close of the European war." Vague
indorsement of "ultimate" Phillipine
ineependence, approval ol a ship pur
chase bill, rural credits ' full and ade
quate preparation for national defense,"
improvement of the Missouri and Mis
sissippi rivers and a corrupt practice
act and recommendation of legislation
for promotion of business enterprise,
conservation of resources, and federal
aid in finding employment for the un
employed comprise the unfinished
program.
Recorr.mendutions are specific where
the president has been specifie and
vague where the president has been
vague. It is simply a Wilson platform,
subject to change without notice.
Globe-Democrat.
Missouri has a Candidate
The Missouri Demscracy has earn
estly commended Gov Elliot W. Ma
or to the Derrocratic National Con
vention as an individual peculiarly
equipped and qualified (or the high
office of vice president, by special
training in law and by legislative and
executive labors. The convention is
advised that his nomination would give
a positive strength to the ticket, not
only in Missouri but in every other
state. The resolutions instructing the
Missouri delegation to cast its vote "as
a unit" for him so long as his mm:
shall be before the convention and to
use all honorable means to "secure"
his nomination, rehearse his achieve
ments as a candidate and as an official.
They declare he has made ' a record
which stands out as the equal of any
in the American state." That he has
led the Missouri electoral vote in three
presidential elections is recited. That
his popularity has spread to other
states is also asserted. Speaker Clark
has added his testimony as tutor
and mend to the transcendent merits
and ability of the Pike County prodigy.
It would seem that all other aspir
ants would give up in despair. But
they may get a little comfort out of
the fact that over one-sixth ol the dele
gates voted against the resolution
There were 221 delegates, who in the
face ol certain defeat, insisted on going
on record against the action. This
furnishes a key to the "as a unit'
phraseology. Many of the 1075 dele
gates who voted fjr the resolution
Jeered as they did it. They made no
effort to conceal their lack of respect for
the man whom they "earnestly" com
mended as a possible president. One
of the speakers, urging the endorse
ment, assured the delegates the presi
dent would ignore it and pick his own
running mate. This peep behind
the returns revives intesest in the
mysterious forces, that brought about
the instructions. Hew much salt
must be used on the general and speci
fic denials of the rumored combine?
Will the junior senator be unopposed
at the primary? Is the governorship
settled already? These questions do
not raise as interesting possibilities as
the nomination of Mr. Major, but they
are more immediate and practical.
There is some local curiosity over the
governor's belated investigation of the
charges as to the source of his sud
denly acquired popularity with the
Democratic Machine in St. Louis.
Scripture says there is a time for every
thing. The governor has decided
that the time for investigating excise
and police conditions is after the de
livery of convention votes. It may
be assumed that the investigator ap
proaches his task in an unhostile spirit.
Globe-Democrat.
Carranza Understands Wi'son
Woodrow Wilson may be an enigma
to the leaders of his party in Congress,
or indeed to the great mass of Demo
crats everywhere - but he is no riddle
t) Venustiano Carranza. Carranza
understands Wilson like a book.
Some months ago Wilson issued a
proclamation calling upon all the ri
val chieftains in Mexico to get togeth
er and all hastened to comply except
Carranza. In language whose contemp
tuous quality could not be misunder
stood he told Wilson to mind his own
business aad that the Carranza outfit
would continue to do business at the
old stand. Having thus defied Wilson
uccistul'y, Carr lv months
later came to his reward. Out of all
the contending rascals in Mexico, Wil
son picked the one who had snubbed
him and gave him the recognition of
this government.
Recently, Wilson ordered Funston
to get Villa. To do this required
the entrance of American troops upon
Mexican soil where Carranza bobbed
up serenly and notified Wilson that if
American soldiers were to enter Mex
ico he must insist upon the right of
Mexican troops to enter the United
States. Again Wilson submitted to
Carranza.
Carranzi knows that Wilson has
only to be resisted and he submits.
Ex Gov. McCreary of Kentucky says
he has read all the speeches which the
President delivered on the Western
trip, borne job, that.! And he hnds
that Mr. Wilson never repeated him
self once. By way ol explanation we
submit that the President was trying to
adapt himself to the audience
which he addressed. If he thought
they were to any degree pacifist, he
spoke in that vein. If he thojght
they were highly belligerent, he orated
accordingly. In short, he was mak
ing speeches lor Wilson and wanted
them to fit. Jay Gould once said that
he was a Democrat in a Democratic
county, a Repuba-.n in a Republican
county, and an Erie Railroad man all
the time.
Thirteen is an nnlucky number. It
is also the number of the Democrats
in Congress who refused to vote for
the first and least objectionable ol the
revenue bills which Mr. Wilson wants
this Congress to pass. The Democrat
ic majority is now only twenty-three
which is also a number of sinister
meaning and thirteen rebels will de
stroy that majority.
Simeon E. Baldwin, ex Chiel Jus
tice and ex-Governor ol Couneticut
former president of the American Bar
Association, and a life long Democrat
states, in writing, his belief that Bran
deis should net go on the Supreme
Bench. But the Democrats who now
sit in the White House and the Senate
are not the Simeon E. Baldwin kind ol
Democrats and they want Brandeis as
a Judge.
Hogwash.
Here is a sample of the hogwash
handed to the country by the tempor
ary chairman of the recent St. Joe
Democratic Convention:
"Notwithstanding immense appro
priations for every department of the
government and every need ol the peo
ple, the Democratic party has built up
in Missouri the second largest cash
public school lund ol any of the states,
and this, not by oppressive increasing
taxation, but accompanied by a steady
reduction of the tax rate."
We happen to know the diminutive,
red headed statesman from Cole who
delivered this, along with a lot more
rubbish unworthy a man of any sense.
He has been representing'Cole county
in the legislature for the last two ses
sions, and he is a pleaaant little gentle
man, socially, but when he essays
statesmanship he rattles. He ought to
know, and doubtless does know, that
Missouri does not have the ''second
largest cash public school fund of any
ol the states." He knows we have no
cash public school fund at all. That
time passed away long ago. We did
have a lund made up ol cash and in
terest bearing bonds. But our Demo
cratic friends dissapated that long ago.
We did draw interest on the bonds we
had in that fund; but now we have no
bonds, only "Certificates of Indebted
ness," created by act of the legislaaure
to fill the vacuum, and later approved
by the people at the ballot box. It is
not necessary to recall history to prove
all this. We merely call the attention
of the Hon. A. T. Durum to page 88
last Session Laws, where he will find
B. 1 which he doubtless voted for,
and by which he helped to appropriate
5500,503.93 to pay interest on said
certificates of indebtedness. Does that
ook like we had a "cash" school fund?
or years every session of the legisla
ture has done the same thing. .What
T - Ut lit
people's tax money is appropriated to
run our schools. We, the people, pay
it in taxes and the legislature appro
priates it to run our schools. The
statute says it is interest on the certifi
cates. If we nad a cash, or even a
(und made up of bonds and interest
bearing securities, we would not be ap
propriating the peoples tax money ev
ery two years to pay interest on it or
them. Will the red headed statesman
Irom Cole explain why it is necessary
to pay interest on our "cash public
chool (und?" We pause (or reply.
urther, we ask him to state if we
have any public school fund, either in
cash or bonds, drawing iuterest? The
whole thing, except the appropriation,
is a dream, and there is no "cash
school fund" in Missouri; but such
statesmen as Mr. Dumm go about the
state doping the people with such rot,
very properly called hogwash. Aod in
keeping with this rubbish we hear him
saying in the same fulsome speech:
"Regarding a political platform as a
contract with the electorate, we have
kept faith with the people." O, rats!
How can a man stand up and make
such an ass ol himself as that indicates?
It is positively disgusting. And to
think that quite a number ol uninform
ed people accept such stuff and cheer
the stufier. We cannot spare the
space to state the total abandonment
ol the Baltimore platlorm by the Dem
ocratic party, and it is still throwing its
planks away one by one, day after day.
W. 0. Atkeson in Bates County
Record.
That Great Britain is prepared to
conduct an industrial war after her
war of arms is over, is indicated by
statistics compiled by the American
consul at Manchester, England, who
has issued an itemized list ol exports
from that district to the United States
and insular possessions. In round
figures, the exports for January, 1916,
were $1,440,000 as compared with
1776,000 in January 1915 an in
crease of 100 per cent.
It is unkind ol the Philadelphia
"North American" to remind the
country that the man we are now
chasing in Mexico is not one who re
fusel to salute tie American flag.
