UTNAM COUNTY HEI
VOLUME XIV.
COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, THLKSI'AY. MARCH 30, 1916.
NUMBRK 13
TED'
iALD.
TENNESSEE NEWS
CUT TO THE QUICK
FOR BUSY READERS
The Dixie Highway Association baa
announced that Rutherford County ha?
raised funds for opening its toll gates,
which have been a bar to the routing
-of the highway through that county
The women of Oliver Springs, under
the leadership of Mrs. E. D. Phillips
tent the warring nations a box by
freight containing 451 pieces of band
Ages, drains and pillows.
Small Dlots of ground on farms in
various part of Coffee County are be
Ibk used by agricultural experts in
making demonstrations to the far
nters.
Several prospectors from Indiana
and Illinois visited Lawrenceburg and
Lawrence County, some of' them mak-
buc purchasee there and will locate
permanently.
A large box containing 1,030 surgical
dressings, has been sent from Frank'
Mn to the wounded soldiers in Europe
by Mrs. N. B. Dozier, chairman of
relief committee in Franklin.
. T T T T f J V U 1 1 9 U i
W. C. T. U., at Jackson, has presented
a petition to the City Commissioners
caking that a woman be appointed on
the police force of Jackson.
Fifteen applications for the navy
were received in a single week at
hattanooga. Ten of this number
were rejected on account of the
physical requirements which the appll
ants must possess to enter the navy,
The firm of H. W. White & Son
Jackson, bought 875 bales of cotton
la Mississippi for which they sent
their draft for $52,000. This is the
largest largest single purchase of cot
ton this year in Jackson.
The Imperial Hotel of Knoxville,
which burned with furnishings estl
mated in value at from $200,000 to
$260,000 and the company carried ap
proximately from $125,000 to $150,000
insurance. The loss is estimated at
$200,000.
Rev. Benton M. Johnson, of Cooke-
ville, the well-known commercial
traveler and Methodist minister, who
for several years was president of the
Tennessee Gideon's Association, .has
presented a Gideon Bible to the press
gallery of the United States Senate
, Nasnvine insurance agents are ar
ranging for the formation of a 6tate
federation of insurance ' men. It is
planned to make it a unit of the Na
tional Federation. Dealers In all
lasses of insurance will be urged to
Join.
' Determined to raise at least 3,500
en within the next six weeks, offl
ers at the Memphis army recruiting
station announce that several add!
tional sub-enlistment posts would pro
bably be opened immediately. A
station has already been opened at
Jackson.
J. E. Hite, Nashville, recently ap
pointed superintendent of the state
farm, has been appointed assistant
agricultural agent of the Nashville
Chattanooga and St Louis railway,
and will devote his time to the demon
tration work of the road and to other
agricultural work which the road is
undertaking.
The only Tennessee officer in the
Fifth U. S. cavalry that entrained
from Fort' Myer for the Mexican bor
der is First Lieut. Robert McKinney
Barton, son of Judge R. M. Barton, of
Memphis. He began his military
career as a corporal in the Third
Tennessee U. S. V. during the war
with Spain.
Fifty boys and . girls of Davidson
County have taken advantage of a
"pig and poultry club" offer made by
a Nashville bank. ' The bank agrees
to lend $10 to each member of the two
lubs for twelve months at 8 per cent,
interest for the niirnnsp nf tntproctlncr
the little boys in raising pigs and the
girls in poultry raising.
What promises to be one of the
most exciting money-raising move
- ments in the history of Nashville, will
be launched in Nashville early in
April. Several hundred widely. known
business and professional men and
society women will start a campaign to
' raise a suusianuai lunu 10 rnisn ana
More than 300 persons interested in
Sunday school work from Knox ar.d
adjoining counties are expected to at
tend the Sunday school Instltute'which
Will he held at- KnnvvillA Anrll in.11
The institute, wiiich will be Interde
nominational, will be under the aus-
- Dices or tnn Knox I'nnnfv Snnrtnv
School Association.
E. E. Johnson, county court clerk
of Marion county, has refused to sign
the, 3,760 coupons attached to the $100,
000 bond irsue, unless paid 50 cents
for each niguature, or a total of $!,R75.
He also asks for $50 as a fee for
placing hl3 seal on the one hundred
$1,000 bonds. There is no question
over that feature.
Alfred H. Stlnnet, a tealnster at
Nashville, says that he has been
advised that be has become a
millionaire through the death of an
uncle, Aaron Stlnnet, , who, he says,
died In Cincinnati January 10. , Stinnet
gays that he only saw his uncle once.
He is heir to $836,000 tn stocks and
bonds and $214,000 in realty, be says.
The $25,000 in new corporation
bonds of Newport, voted about a year
ago, have been sold. The proceeds
of the issue will be used in improve
ments in the town, $10,000 for floating
debt incurred for sidewalks and other
improvements, $5,000 for water and
sewer extensions, $5,000 for further
street improvements and ?5,000 for
an electric ligh system for the town.
Work on these improvements will be
gin at once. '
About thirty families of Rumanian
Jews, bent on establishing a colony at
Fernvale, 'Williamson County. These
emigrants will settle on a large tract
of land purchased from a Franklin
man, and will go Into extensive farm
ing. Each family will have about
twenty-five or thirty acres, and the
colony will be established on the co
operative plan. J. J. B. Johnsonius,
former state immigration agent, was
Instrumental in securing the new
citizens. ,
For the convenience of the mem
bers of the general assembly at Nash
ville, Postmaster Shannon has estab
lished a miniature model postofflce on
the second floor of the state capital,
near the entrance to the senate cham
ber. J. W. Graham, of Winchester,
has been installed as postmaster and
all- members of the legislature can
have their mall delivered to them by
calling at the capitol postofflce, in
cluding letters, newspapers and parcel
post packages.
The extra session of the Tennessee
legislature is in session on the call of
Gov. T. C. Rye to investigate the con
duct of Judge Jesse Edgington, judge
of division No. 1, criminal court of
Shelby County. It is the first such
extra session held since 1893. Early
Indications are that the session will
develop into-a bitter fight The legis
lature meets with four vacancies in
each body, the majority of,these vacan
cies being In the delegation from Mem
phis, the home of two officials involved.
Steps are being taken by the Nash
ville Automobile club to form a state
association of such clubs. Several
Middle Tenneesee towns have re
cently formed automobile clubs, and
citizens of many other places are be
ing urged by the Nashville club to do
likewise. After the number of clubs
In the state has been increased to a
substantial number the proposed state
organization will be formed The bet
terment of the roads will be one of
the chief aims of the association.
The Carcolite Chemical Company, of
Copperhill, engaged for the past few
months in the manufacture of ingre
dients for high explosives for European
consumption, was entirely destroyed
by fire. The fire, which is said to
have originated in some chemicals, did
damage which is estimated at $1,000,-
000 by officials of the company. George
Smith assistant superintendent of the
mines of the Tennessee Copper Com
pany, was struck by flying debris while
aiding in fighting the flames and died
several hours later.
I III Ml
Mayor's Proclamation
TO THE CITIZENS OF THE TOWN OF COOKEVILLE:
. Whereas, the Board of Aldermen, heretofore on March 25th, 1916,
passed the following resolution:
"Be it resolved by the Mayor and Aldermen of the Town of
Cooke ville, Tennessee:
First That Saturday, being the 15th day of April, 1916, be,
and the same is hereby designated as "CLEAN-UP DAY" in
the Town of Cookeville, on which day every family, business
man and resident of the town is requested to clean up, his,
her or thir premises, to the end that same may present as
sanitary, cleanly and sightly appearance as practicable.
Second That the local newspapers, the teachers of the
city, the ministers, and the various civic and literary organi
zations of the City are hereby requested to actively aid in- ef
fectuating the purposes of this resolution.
Third That the Mayor be directed to make formal procla
mation of "CLEAN-UP DAY", and that such proclamation be
printed in circular form and generally distributed throughout
the City by the local police force, under the direction of the
Mayor."
Therefore, in conformity with said resolution, I, O. K. Holladay, a
Mayor of the Town of Cookeville, do hereby proclaim Saturday, April
15th, 1916, as "CLEAN-UP DAY" in the Town of Cookeville, and I call
on every family in the Town of Cookeville to clean up his, her or
their premises on thiB day, to the end that our town may be sanitary,
cleanly and sightly.
All local newspapers, the principal of the Central High School,
superintendent of the City School, all ministers, and the various civic
and literary organizations of Cookeville are especially requested to
give publication to this proclamation, and to aid in effectuating the
purposes provided in the resolution hereinbefore quoted.
This March 27th, 1916.
O. K. HOLLADAY, Mayor, Cookeville.
Til II I Ml I IIMIIMI'MllllllllllllllMIIIIIHIi;
CITY SCHOOL HONOR ROLL
To make the honor roll in the City
School the following standard must
i be attained.
I 1. An average of 95 per cent, on
each subject taken.
2. Conduct entirely satisfactory.
3. Perfect attendance. However,
an absence or a tardy may be can
ce ied by a point above 95 per cem.
averaged on any study. .
First Grade: Hugo Fox and She
lah Officer.
Firsfl Grado Section B: Eunetta
Clouse, Irene Masters, Etta Gentry,
Gladys Moody, Elizabeth Smith, Pearl
McDonald, Joe Carr, Harlie Langford.
Second Grade: Chas. Cox, Mary
Ellen Rash, Harvey Mayberry.
Third Grade Section B: Helen
Lansden, Virginia Hughes, Minnie
Lee Davis, Ruth Little, Lucile Thomp
son. Fourth Grade: Rebecca johnstm,
Eleanor Haile. Philip Webb, Walter
Flnley. -
Fifth Grade: Harry Jenkins.
Seventh Grade: Thelma Rogers,
Edward Gibson.
Eighth Grade: Robert Gibson.
A great musical center is to be
established at Black Mountain, just
over the North Carolina line from
Johnson City. The movement is back
ed by Fairfax Harrison, President of
the Southern railway; .Walter Dam-
rosch, famous symphony orchestra
leader and other prominent, men. The
nucious of the festival will be a huge
auditorium seating 8,000 people, which
will be constructed at a cost of $200,-
000. It will be the summer home of
music lovers and is expected to be
ready August 15th.
Thirty Nashville Arras have agreed
to give one of their employees a
month's vacation on full pay this sum
mer for the purpose of enabling them
to attend the Ft. Oglethrone citizens'
training camp. The two local news
papers are among the corporations
making this concession in the interest
of "preparedness." It Is thought that
at least twenty other firms will allow
the same privilege to at least one of
their employees. The N., C. & St. L.
railway will send six men and the
Nashville Railway and Light company
three.
The famous Rathbone Bible, which
was used in administering obligations
when the Knights of Pythias wan or
ganized, fifty years ago in Washington,
will be used in the I'ythian Initiation
of members In the rank of page in
Knoxville on April 20. The Bible be
longed to Justus Rathbone, organizer
of the Knights of Pythias. When Mr.
Rathbone died the membership of the
organization bad reached a quarter of
million Pythlans, and to-dav his I
memory is honored by more than three-
quarters of a million. A large gather-
ng of Pythlans are expected to wit-
ess the installation ceremonies.
"Nashville is now drier than ever
in Its history," . said Chief of Police
Alex J. Barthell of that city, and to
substantiate his claims that the law is
ein'g enforced with vigor by the police
nd city judge, he pointed out that dur
ing the two and a half months of this
year, out of 130 arrests for. tippling.
C3 have resulted in convictions In the
city court. Of this number, forty-two
forfeited their cash bonds and did hot
ppear- in court. Sixty-one cases, were
tried and the defendants found guilty.
Thirty of these' were appealed to the
circuit court. The remaining-thirty-one
were either sent; hi the workhouse
or paid their find of $40 each. v
ill I If I llllll III I II Mil M0HII IHHIIHt
T All t I
juemocrais, Aiienuun; ?
The attention of every Democrat in Putnam county Is called to the
fact that the county mass meeting will be held NEXT MONDAY,
APRIL 3d, at one o'clock p. m. to elect delegates to the state conven
tion that meets In Nashville In May, and also to transact any other
business that may be properly brought before the meeting. .
I I IHIMIIIMIUIIIIIIIIfr
More than 300 doctors are expected
to attend the convention of the Ten
nessee State Medical association to
be held in Knoxville, April 4, 5 and 6.
The preliminary program has just been
arranged. Delegates will be royally
entertained, a feature of the conven
tion being a banquet planned for Wed
nesday night, April 5.
Old rage are very much in demand
at the present time at fancy prices,
occasioned, it is said, by the scarcity
f raw material used in the manufac
ture of paper which was brought about
by the European war. The Govern
ment has sent out a bulletin to the
postmasters of the country regarding
the subject. Gallatin, Springfield and
other cities report that dealers have
very active of recent.
When the senate committee on agri
culture resumed hearings at Washing
ton or senator Smith, of South Caro
lina, for establishment of a govern
ment power plant to produce, atmos-
pbereic nitrogen, Frank S. Washburn
of Nashville advocated development of
the power plant at Mussel Shoals on
the Tennessee river, at an expendi
ture of $400,JOO,000 or more, and the
operation of the plant by private par
ties. The committee expects to con-
elude its hearing on the bill shortly.
Expert opinion was presented that it
would require a plant with 30.000
horse-power to develop nitrogen from
the air and that government operation
of such a plant would be imperative
because, private capital could not pro
duce it profitably and compete with
foreign fields.
FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
At the First Presbyterian Church
Rev, S.' A. Coile, D D, President of
Cumberland University will preach at
the 11 o'clock service. At the close
of the sermon the sacrament of the
Lord's Supper will .be administered.
At the evening service we expect Dr.
Warren H. Wilson of New York City
to occupy the pulpit. Dr. Wilson Is
at the head of the Country Church
department of the Board of Home
Missions of the Presbyterian Church
U. S. A, and, is a recognized authori
ty on social service and the many
problems - of the rural and village
churches.
ORDERED TO JOIN REGIMENT AT
PHILLIPINE8
METHODIST CHURCH
The pastor, Rev. R. J. Craig, will
preach Sunday morning at 11 o'clock.
The subject will be "The Joy of Je
sus." The regular monthly commun
ion will be held at the close of the
service. The pastor's sermon for
Sunday night is "The Answered Pra
yer."
QUICK ACTION
Harry Mallory, U. S. A., receives
orders to join his regiment which Is
to embark for the Philllplnea. The
Overland Limited is the only train
that will enable him to reach the
coast in time to escape a court-mar
tial. Having a little time to spare j
he persuades Marjorie to elope with
him and reserves two births. They
reach the train in time but havn't
time to get married. "Little" Jimmy
Wellington, who stands six-feet-two
and weighs 350 in his stocKnlg feet,
guzzles too much, so his wife takes
the Overland for Reno, tel'Ing him
that she goes to Paris for the year.
He gets sore and takes the same train
for the same place, and for the some
purpose. The Reverend Doctor Tem
ple, tiring of the monotony or Ypsi
lanti, elopes and takes the Overland
through to the coast. There's anoth
er girl aboard a former sweetheart
of Mallory's. With this cargo, in
charge of a worthy porter, they start.
The happenings en route Well see
what they are in a mammoth Patlie
Pullman car pleasantry in five sec
tions at THE STRAND next Tuesday
entitled "Excuse Me."
ML View Lodge No. 179, IOOF
met at the usual hour 7 p. m., March
25th, 1916, Jas. H. McCulley, N G, pre
sidipg with, on account of Inclemen
cy of the weather, a small attendance.
The usual routine business was dis
posed of. Bro. C. Bradford writes
the Lodge that he is gradually Im
proving and entertains hopes of re
covery. Bro. J. H York was report
ed to be about as last week.
Committee on petition for member
ship by transfer reported 'avorable,
after ballot he was declared elected
to membership, effective after the re
ceipt of Transfer Certificate and sign
ing Constitution and by-laws.
The Committee on celebration of
the 97th anniversary of the Order,
April 26th reported progress.
The killing of policeman, Alvln H.
Counties at Monterey, a very deplora
ble affair, is an object lesson for all
delinquent members, some 6 or I
years ago he suffered himself dropp
ed for non-payment of dues, he leave
an Invalid wife and four small child
ren, to have borrowed the money re
quired to keep in good standing would
now give his family the benefits of
the I O O F Home. '
THIS WEEK'S WORK ON THE
FARM
Seed Corn
SYLVAN RtBEKAH LODGE NO. M
IOOF
This Lodge is growing rapidly and
is enjoying a splendid interest
The officers for the present term
are:
Noble Grand, Mrs. H. V. Carr;
Vice Grand, Mrs S- B. Caruthers; Sec
retary, E. H. Boyd; Treasurer, H. y
Carr; Chaplain, Miss Laura Copeland;
District Deputy President, Mrs. O. W.
Stephens.
A laudable undertaking of this lod
ge at present is to erect, by voluntary
contribution from Odd Fellows and
Rebekahs, an appropriate monument
or tomb stone at the grave of Willard
Clarence Garrison, the ten year old
son of Mrs. Fannie B. Garrison, who
met with an accidental death at the
IOOF Home at Clarksville on March
6th. All Odd Fellows and Rebekahs
who desire to contribute to this
fund will please hand or mail their
contribution to E. H. Boyd, Secretary.
This Lodge meets on the second
and fourth Friday nights of each
month and visiting Rebekahs are al
ways cordially received.
A GREAT SALE
The mamiroth spring sale at the
PREACHING AT SHIPLEY AND
8MALL CHANGE
Rev. Fred B. Cox will preach at
Shipley. Sunday, April 2, at 11 o'clock
and at Small Change in the afternoon
at 3 o'clock.
you have not a good type of corn make
arrangements to get a good stock and
to take care of it this fall so a3 to
assure a good supply for next year.
Good seed will pay the biggest divi
dend of any farm investment, and
still the farmers of Putnam county
neglect the seed question more than
any other thing conneotec with their
corn crops. Crib selected corn is
better than not-selected at all, but
seed selected in the field Is the best
of all. When this is done you know
the kind of corn to expect. To the
average farmer the seed question is
the most important thing at present,
for what will it profit a farmer to
fix a perfect seed bed, and then plant
poor seed.
Spring p'owlng
Be sure to disk every acre of land
turned in the spring before It is plow-
The disk is the most valuable
ODD FELLOWS CONVENTION
The following l8 the program for
the regular semi-anuai convention of
Now is the time to pick out your tne putnam County 0dd pelIows
THEY HAVE BEGUN
The big spring program promised
by The Strand Theatre is here, and
began last Tuesday with Blanche
Sweet in The Warrens of Virginia. ! ed.
The management booked four big j implement on the farm in seed bed , Tennessee
sociailon, to be held with Caney Fork
Lodge, at Buffalo Valley, on Saturday
night, April 22, 1916.
1. Devotional exercises, Chaplain,
A. N. Bowden ,
2. Address of welcome. ' 1
3. Response, T. D. Verble ' '
4. History of Odd Fellowship In
Putnam County, Dr. L. R McClain
6. Ninety-seven years of American
Odd Fellowship, Prof. T. W- Klttrell.
6. Odd Fellowship, its value to the
family of a brother, J. H. Hodge.
7. Why I love Odd Fellowship, Rev
G. W. Nunally.
S. What tne public expects of an
Odd Fellow, B. V. High.
9. The present day need of frater
nity. Dr. W. S McClain.
10 Address, subject "Thomas Wil
dey", Grand Secretary J. R. Harwell.
11 Address, subject "Rebekah Odd
Fellowship", Mrs. L R. Moore, Presl-
dent of the Rebekah Assembly of
rJTm u r; J. ' Paramount productions this week, preparation, and if used ahead of the
Cookeville Mercantile Co., has been . , .' I , . lr,. -.m m,6o tri
-t. hj and opens again next Tuesday with plow8 in the spring will make the
a feature program not excelled in any , work easier and better. It will cut
town ten times our size. !up the rtash, prevent clods forming
Beginning next Tuesday with "Ex-'at the bottom of the furrow,- and
make deeper plowing possible. All
with "Pudd'n Head Wilson", Thurs- corn ground should be turnea s in.
or better, and with our light plow
teams this can only be done by eas
ing the draft of the plow. Try It
once, and see the benefits.
the greatest event of Its kind wit
nessed in Cookeville, and was a pro
nounced success from the very be-
have been very busy waiting on the!cuse M"'. H,eyfoU.owJ!? wfdnesday
piiotnmora that cn-mo f-nm far n.nd
. . , . , - . day with Pauline Fredrick in "Zeza",
near, to take advantage of the low ' '
prices on dry goods. The customers
. . nicture for Friday, the title of which
are pleased witn tneir Dargains; ana,' k ,
. , i. . wnl e on their screen sometime this
the proprietors are enjoying their . B
ouuuo. " " -- mu- 01 J 1 .. 11 .1
ine stntua auuwb iuu wen uiui 1119
THE CONSfcRVATORY PLAYERS j public has long since grown tired of
The next number of the Lyceum the ordinary "regular program show,
Course will be the "Conservatory and therefore It is booking the- fea
Players". - . ' Itures. which are produced by artists
. This number will consist of vocal with reputations, and played by well
and Instrumental music, and reading known actors and actresses.
turn vnn mnv HpTipnrt ahnnliitolv nn
character 'its merit, and if you are not satisfied ae merchants get good profits. Three
skethces, rendered by talented art
sts.
An ontarrnlnmont rt f.htfl
and quality fcerits the support of : your money will always be cheerful-' falr 8ized forties have been made in
this entire community. ly refunded, or you will be given 1
(At the city school building next, free pass to the next attraction.,
Wednesday night, April 5th.) . What more can you ask?
12. Address, Grand Patriarch Jas.'
B. Armstrong. '
13. Reports of Delegates. .
14. Reports of Committees. ' v
15. Closing invocation. - " ". , ;
This convention will be called to
order at 7:30 p. m.. All Odd Fellows
and Rebekahs are urged to attend.
The following committees are ap-'
pointed to work up the largest pos
sible attendance' from their respect
ive lodges. '
Mount View Lodge, W. O. Watson,
D. E Slagle, J H McCulley, Clay Bafr,'
and J. M. Judd. ,,, ' ,
Baxter Lodge; Dr. W E Sypert,.
Horace Maxwell, R L Richardson, Q
W Nunally and J A Isbell.
Algood Lodge; J F Hampton,' P L
Ramsey, Hinson Judd, W B Sacra and
R L Hamlet.
Martins Creek Lodge; B F Mo-
this building, which has held the lead- iBroo.m M C llll&e 0 Mar-ow,;
FOR SLE: The famous Myer cor
ner lot on Square in Carthage. Big
fire destroyed this and other buildings
February tenth and left only two dry
goodo stores in County Seat of County
with sixth richest soil' in State. Will
sell lot reasonable and furnish money
When the Strand advertises a pic- Rt Per cent t0 bulld first
and give gooa uire w repay, unu-
Ladies Invited
The women of Cookeville who are interested in the establishment
of a reading room, and every lady should certainly have an interest j
in this enterprise, are invited to attend the meeting at the City schol j
building next Tuesday afternoon at 3 o'clock. Let there be a large j
crowd in attendance, the more, the merrrier. j
UHHIHIIIltMMMIIIIHIMtHHIIlir
Ing store in this section for over a
hundred years. Carthage enjoys low
er rail rates than any rail competitor,
because on both Tennessee Central
land Cumberland River, and they com
! pete" for traffic. Rail rate Nashville
to Carthage: Nails 8c, competing
' towns' rail 'ato 26c. Stoves 10c, ccm
j peting towns' rail rate 28c. To one
'I can trust a great opportunity will
be offered. None save honest, level
. beaded hustlers need apply. ' ,
I W. E. MYER, Carthage, Tenn.
Caney Fork Lodge; Tamer Jones,
Hay Maddux, W W Jared, Byrd Bart
lett and J F Pedlgo.
Fraternally submitted, ,
Ernest H. Boyd, President, ,
Terry" D. Verble Secretary,
J. F. Hampton, Treasurer,
"- A. N. Bowden, Chaplain,
Committee on Program.
WYLY'S are live druggists.- They
are always busy, because they carry;
the goods. - Come and get them. '
