THE BARRE- DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 13.
IIAKHK, VERMONT. THURSDAY, MARCH ao, 1910.
ntlCE, OXK CENT.
4
REPULSES
FOR GERMANS
In Their Efforts to Retake
Lost. Positions in Avo
court Wood
EXPLOSIONS SENT
FIREBRANDS WIDELY
SEVERAL ATTACKS
MADE LAST NIGHT
North of Malancourt, Where
Germans Gained Yester
day, Was Quiet To-day
After having pushed back lite French
lines ulong the western bend of the suli
ent in the Mnlancourt region, northwest
of Verdun, the Germans have desisted
for the present from further efforts to
advance there. Further to the west,
however, the crown prince's infantry him
again been counter-attacking in the Avo
court road, several assaults having been
launehed in efforts to retake the posi
tionsj but Taris says the effort were
fruitless,
The workers in the British munitions
chops in the Clyde district, wlio struck,
Jiave been called upon by the trade or
ganization to return to work, the strike
being declared unconstitutional and in
contravention of the munitions act.
The recent war council was character
ized by complete unity of purpose and
all the conferees without exception were
satisfied with the decision reached, says
Premier Salandra of Ituly in a newspa
per interview.
Faris, March 30. .Several German in
fantry attacks upon Avocourt wood in
Doiton & Maine Roundhouse at Plym
outh, N. II,. Destroyed and Six
Locomotives Were Damaged.
Plymouth, X. 11.. March 30. The
roundhouse of the Boston & Maine rail
road whs destroyed by tire to-day, with
a I'ws of Uo,immi, Six locomotive were
badly damaged. Shortly after the lire
was discovered many barrels of oil stored
nearby exploded and this quickly spread
the lliunes through the entire structure.
CARRANZA
TROOPS GONE
HEARING END OF SUIT.
Less Than 200 Remain in
Casas Grandes and Gal
eana Districts
SEEK THE UNDERTAKER
Who Embalmed the Body of Peck for
Dr. Waite.
New York, March 30.-District Attor-
SAYS SENATOR FALL
AFTER INVESTIGATION
"kSSShS; Also Declares They Allowed
who embalmed the body of John K. Peck, Villa to PaSS Un
harmed
an endeavor to re-take lost positions
were made last night. The French war
office report this afternoon says these as
saults failed. No further advances ; Mnrga ret Weaver Horton, Waitc'a friend,
wealthy Grand Rapids druggist, for
whose murder his son-in-law, Dr. Arthur
Warren Waite, is under arrest here.
Kane's arrest has been ordered on the
charge of conspiring to commit a crime.
Waite is said by Mr. Swann to nave
leelared that Kane accepted !UMH) in
cash and a check for !f!MOO as part pay
ment of S-Jo.IMM) he was to be paid for
swearing that he used arsenic in embalm
ing Peck's body. This arrangement,
Waite said, according to the district at
torney, was made after an autopsy on
Pecks bodv disclosed the presence of a
large quantity of arsenic.
.John S. rotter, the undertaker wno
had charge of Peck's funeral, and who
employed Kane a-3 embalmer, reiterated
denials that he had any part in the al-
cged negotiations lietween Kane and
Waite, except to send Kane to the den
tist's apartment when Waite desired to
know the formula of the embalming fluid
used on Peck's body. He did admit, how
ever, th.it he received a letter from
IVaitc asking him and Kane not to tele-
ihone him. as aite helieved Ins tele
phone wire had been "tapped" and also
telling him he need not worry about his
check.
Kane embalmed the bodv of Airs. Kath-
erine Adams in the famous Molineaux
ase, and Potter was the undertaker who
ttended to the bodv of William M. Kite,
for whose death Albert T. Patrick was
tried
Ineffectual efforts were made by Mrs,
Douglas, Arizona, March 30. Not 200
Oarranza troops remain in the Casas
Grandes and Galeatia district of Chic-
huahua, according to a statement to
day by United States Senator Fall of
New Mexico who said he was so in
formed on good authority. Senator Fall
arrived last night from Hachita, New
Mexico, in an automobile tour of the
border.
All of Carranza's soldiers might as
well be withdrawn for all the good they
are doing in aiding our men, he said.
They made no attempt to stop Villa
when he passed Casas Grandes in broad
daylight, less than a mile from the gar
rison. He had no more than 300 men
with him at that time.
USE OF RAILROADS
GIVEN BY CARRANZA
against Malancourt were attempted by
the Germans. Kast of the Meuse there
-was heavy artillery fighting.
SWEEPING GERMAN GAIN.
Forged Ahead Over Mile-front, While
French Were Shelling Elsewhere.
London, March 30. The Germans to
the northwest of Verdun in an infantry
attack started with huge effectives have
gained north of Malancourt and have
even penetrated the northwest corner of
the village.
The attempts of the Teutons to carry
who has been closely questioned by the
district attorney, to obtain permission to
visit Waite at Bellevue hospital. Herat
torney, Harold Spielberg, said that if
neither he nor Mrs. Horton is allowed to
see Waite to-day he will take some ac
tion. Mrs. Horton, in a letter to Waite
yesterday, expressed her sympathy and
confidence in his innocence.
WILSON COMMENDED.
By Maine Democrats Who Praised His
Foreign Policy.
Bangor, Me., March 30. Praise for
heir ,lv.i,.n farMior lw.u-ot.-ar Here ! the foreign DOllCV 01 ITCaUieni USOn
stonned bv the French'fire as also wi re I liberal endorsement of the nation and
three eounfcer attacks against the posi
tions in the Avocourt wood, south of
Malancourt, which had previously been
taken from them by a French infantry !
state administration pledges to support
President Wilson, Gov. Oakley C. Cur
tis, Senator Charles V. Johnson and Con
gressman Daniel J. McGillieuddy and con
attack. The German official, communica- ( demnatron ot the alleged use 01 a largo
tion savs that. the. ailvamv of the tier-I fund to procure the nomination and elec-
mans north of Malancourt was over a! tion of candidates 'for important elective
front of more than a mile.
De Facto Government in Mexico to Per
. mit United States Government to
Employ Them in Commercial
Business.
Washington, 1). C, March 30. One of
the army's most serious problems in
J. E. Alexander Important Witness in
News Vending Co. Case.
Turlington, March 30. It is expected
that the case of Gardner II, Arnold of
Burlington against K. X. Somers et al,
will bo finished in Chittenden county
court to-day. J, K. Alexander, salesman
for the American News Vending Machine
company of St. Johnsbury, was one of
the Inst witnesses for the defendant.
In reply to a question by Mr. Billiard
as to whether or not Mr, Arnold had
heard a certain conversation, Mr. Alex
ander replied, "I don't know, 1 haven't
his ears, to which the examining attor
ney retorted. "o. but von have nearly
... .:.. . l, I.-.- t,.. .,.
.fudge Stanton ordered the remarks ex
punged from the record. Two of the di
rector of the company, Dr. W. J. Aid
rich and A. P. Ladd, both of St. Johns
bury, testified at the afternoon session.
One important fact brought out by Mr.
Alexander's testimony yesterday morn
ing was that on Oct. 2S, 1012, four days
after the contract between Mr. Arnold
and Mr. Alexander and the American
News Vending Machine company was
signed, the directors of the company vot
ed Alexander 50 per cent commission
on the sale of equipment for the com
pany. Mr. Hul lard also endeavored to
show that the- witness had left Platts
burg, N. V., where be was managing the
affairs of the Eureka Vending Machine
company, because of prosecutions filed
against him for the misappropriation of
funds, but this was denied.
Dr. W. J. Aldricli of St. Johnsbury, a
director of the American News Vending
Machine company, testified as to the as
sets of the company at the present time
these consisting principally of machinery
and equipment at the factory at St.
.Johnsbury, with a total value of alout
$1S,(MM). lie testified that he knew noth
ing of the details of the contract between
the company and Arnold and Alexander
until after it' was signed and that the
resolution. of the board of. directors giv
ing Alexander a. 50 per cent commission
on the Pile of equipment was passed to
ratify a previous act of Mr. Somers, the
president.
A. P. Ladd. another director of the
company, admitted that before the eale
of the New York state rights to Arnold
and Alexander he had an idea that Ar
nold was one of the parties in the deal
and also knew that Alexander wss to re
ceive a 50 per cent commission on the
sale. He also testified that the directors'
vote of a 50 per cent commission to
Alexander on the sale of tool equipment
after the contract a signed, was in
C.V. TRAINMEN
MAKE DEMAND
They Presented Statemen
to Pres. E. C. Smith
This Morning
HAVING JOINED IN
GENERAL MOVEMENT
Want a Full Day's Pay for
Eight Hours Work ; Time
and Half for Overtime
St. Albans, March 30. A committee
representing the Brotherhood of Loco
motive Engineers, the Order of Railway
Conductors, Brotherhood of Locomotive
Kngineers and Firemen and Brotherhood
of Railway Trainmen of the Central Ver
m'ont Railway company, having joined
the nation-wide movement of those or
ganizations, this morning presented their
demands for increased pay to President
t. t... Smith of the Central ermont Rail
way company. The chief demands of the
men are for a full day's pay for eight
hours' work and time and a half for
overtime.
DELEGATES BUSY
IN M. E. CONFERENCE
Consideration of the Needs of Montpelier
Seminary Was Taken Up at
Montpelier.
hunting Villa was solved when General ratification of a previous act of FJ. X
Carranza promptly granted the renewed i Somers. He denied that he ever made or
During the German offensive on Mal
ancourt the French heavy guns from the
Argonne were directing their fire on the
Malancourt and Avocourt woods.
office, were given at the Democrati6 state
convention yesterday.
A set of 12 delegates and their alter
nates to attend the Democratic national
convention at St. Louis on June 14 was
Aside from the infantry attacks and ! eI,Jt't,"i Hml six candidates for electors
counter attacks in this region a heavy
bombardment has been in progress from
Avocourt northeastward to Bethincourt,
a distance of five miles. There has also
of president and vice president of the
1 nited States are nominated.
The customary demand for re-submis-
sion of the liquor prohibtory law to pop
request of the state department for per
mission to use the Mexican Northwestern
railroad in carrying out the pursuit.
Oeneral (arranzn received the new re
quest yesterday morning; his answer
was in Washington before dark. It was
contained in a brief message from John
L. Rodgers, special agent of the United
States at Queretaro, saying the head of
the de facto government agreed to the
commercial use of the line. Officials here
assumed he would be equally prompt in
notifying his officers on the border and
that General Fuuston might begin ship
ments at once.
Although the army will proceed to. use
the railroad on a commercial basis, which
is 'construed here as meaning that all
service shall be paid for at regular i ,
ever had any connection with the mak
ing of any misrepresentations to Arnold
and said that he was not aware that the
latter claimed to be deceived until just
before the filing of this suit.
USED SHOT GUN ON SELF.
Ansel Kelsey, 68, of Middlebury, Died
of Wound in Head
Middlebury, Ma,reh 30.. Ansel Kelsey,
aged C8 years,' killed himself with a'shot
gun yesterday afternoon at the home of
his daughter, Mrs. K. J. Piper, two miles
south of the village. Mr. Kelsey was
a prosperous farmer and longtime rcsi-
ent of Salisbury. Despondency is
rates, the state department will negoti- j fc , t , prompted bis act.
ata further with t Arrmi7ft fo hmnrr alioot - - 4 '
Bishop Hamilton presided at the open
ing of the second day's session of the
Vermont Methodist conference at Mont
pelier to-day and spoke for a short time
on "personal evangelism, after which he
called upon Rev. T. W. Owens of Brat
tleboro and Rev. W. C. Christie of Ca
naan to tell the result of that work in
their towns, the former reporting that 47
had joined the Brattloboro church since
Jan. 1 and the latter stating that 22 had
joined the Canaan church.
fraternal greetings to the conference
were extended by Rev. W. A. Davidson,
representing the Baptist state conven
tion; by Rev. C. A. Boyd, representing
the State Sunday School association nd
the Vermont Bible society; and by Rev.
Stanley F. Blom field of Montpelier, rep
resenting the Congregational church.
Presiding Klder K. W. Kharpe of the
Brattleboro district read his report, and
the same was acoepted, Dr. Sheldon of
Wesleyan university was given a. few
minutes, and he wa followed by Prin
cipal J. W. Hatch of Montpelier semi
nary. Students of the latter institution
also assisted in the session,
Rev. Patrick Joseph Maveety, D. D.,
of Cincinnati, O., spoke last evening to
a gathering which filled the church, de-
the negroes is twice as large as among
white people, because of ignorance, un
sanitary conditions, and lack of trained
doctors and nurses. The 10 other schools
are turning out teachers, ministers and
industrial leaders. He also spoka of the
model homes conducted by the Woman s
Home Missionary society, training girls,
the influence fur good being incalcuU
ble. The society in its work of etab-
lishing the institutions has always kept
the thought foremost, that the main oh
jeet is to send out religious leaders. Dr.
Maveety predicted that ere long the ne
gro race of this country would tie able
to take care of itself and eventually
christianize Africa.
To commemorate the memory of mem
bers of the conference, who died during
the past year, Key. A. W. font, chaplain
at the state's prison, and Mrs. Ellen L.
Bushnell, widow of a former member of
the conference, remembered by the older
ministers, a memorial sermon was
preached yesterday afternoon by Rev.
A. J. Hough of Brownsville. Rev. Mr.
Hough took as his theme, "The Open
Secret of the Shining Face." Those old
men who have passed away were think
ers, with tender thoughts of man and
their thoughts were represented by the
face. They were workers, carrying the
cares and sorrows of the people, never
shirking their duties.
God never made anything for himself
alone, and he who liveth to himself is
a parasite, scorned by the universe. It I
s the near view that kills us, the far
lew which saves us.
Rev. Mr. Hough touched upon the rural
problem, which is the minister, despite
the theories of professors who know as
ittle about the question as illiam Jen
nings Bryan does about minding his own
business. '
Rev. W. S. Smithers presided at the
memorial service and prsyer was offered
by Rev. Joseph Hamilton of Randolph.
GAVE VERDICT
TO M'DONALD
Jury Holds That Value of
Maine Land Was Not
as Represented
TRIAL OF THE CASE
CONCLUDED TO-DAY
Court Now Oco a ,d with a
Suit for T , age by
Au .,bile
NO CHANGE AT QUINCY
I E . . T . - y ilmicn inurAriU 9 tki Ain innp rs r
U tllACil ojitillt urn iiiii nPjrun.lin. n u i . . I J J J Ci
.. ,., ,,t..,,..,K tt j""Mthe home of his daughter, hitched his scribing vividly the needs of the colore.!
what he has agreed to esterday's re- K, wk of the an(, fter ta,k. , ,e in t,,c South anJ the effortg
spouse is regarded as being satisfactory - with hu tltt hter told hr ,le wollM ; ing ma,le by the Freedman's Aid society,
m a measure, but it is not sufficiently I " ...i iT- t-.. i. . h...k i, .ki;v,,, f .i,.u,u
UIIL IU ii't'ti 1. 1 It. ihii nr. Jjnivi, vise ic - i hiiuumii s,i. uiivm iiiviil v ni mnio
,. . . - IIf
definite. It may hi" too that in oiMcr u Z i u t m- t;.w U,r.;-i- A r,,Aa u
, - limit Ul lllf KUil "tta llCniU OIIU J I . 1 lull, ;un wuum, v Oil uuit nnuo. " f
assure the arrival and delivery of "p-: ,',is mn.in.U, found Mr. Kelsey on the i pealed to the conference not to forget the
plies shipped to points al-iiir the line;.. , . . , !, it lrin.r h nn,,.f -.mmm-i.
I :... 1 p.. ..ill .1..;... i -l. I " """'S w.v .-wwy ............ .e .....
lieen a continuation of the sporadic out- ular v"te was missing lrorn the deciara
bursts of artillery fire to the north and ; tion of principles, which was adopted
east of Verdun; while in the Vosges ! without opposition. There was, however,
mountains the French batteries ha a PIHnK reuesiing uiai a convention oe
been keeping up their bombardment of
German organizations.
In mining operations in the Argonne
the French have blown up Germau post
and between the Oise and the Aisne have
dispersed German convey with their
called for a revision of the constitution
President Wilson was declared to be
the "safest, the wisest, the most hu
mane and the most clear headed states
man now on the stage of the world."
Honest elections were demanded, the
guns. The Germans claim that in a hand I l,mrHe wmK ",HUK im ,c a
grenade encounter, they recaptured from jcorted 'ffort on the part of certain men
to buy nominations for important elec
the officers, and the voters were urged
to stand with the Democrats in rebuking
such a practice.
The keynote for the state campaign
this fall was sounded by Senator John
son in his address delivered upon as
suming the chairmanship of the conven
tion. He al praised President Wilson
and reviewed the work of the adminis
tration at Washington. The delegates
listened to the discussion of state lssu-.;
by Governor Curtis and of national af
fairs by Congressman McGilicuddyi All
were given demonstration of cheering
and applause as was President Wilson
A. ....? f!a..U.-..t WMlium T? Pol.
Ilavas dispatch . . - , f. .,
from Saloniki says that another faerial , .-'
., ,, . . , , , , ' . ; resolutions.
mm fu tiiL vuy nHB aii-iiijtirn uy me
Germans yesterday. The French airmen
engaged them and compelled them to
turn about without accomplishing their
object. (Several bombs were dropped on
Orfani, but did no damape.
the British a mine crater at St. Elio
The British declare they have consoli
dated all the ground gained on March
27.
AN AIR BATTLE
OVER SALONIKI
French Airmen Attacked German Aero
planes Which Attempted a Raid
Several Bombs Dropped
On Orfani.
Taris, March 30
guards on the trains.
AMERICAN PLANS
ARE CONCEALED
And There Is But Slight Progress at
Settlement Elsewhere.
Tabloid reports from the various New
England granite centers that are having
periodic adjustments of relations between
employes and quamers and manufactur
era indicate that settlements in some lo
calitie are immediately possible, while
n other sections settlements seem very
remote. Although Bethel granite cutters
have settled on a $4 minimum basis, the
agreement to expire in 1020, work has
not been resumed, as a settlement with
the lumpers has not been effected
Reports received in Barre to-day state
that Milford, X. 11., cutters have accepted
the $4 minimum and the 1020 limitation,
vot to that effect having been taken
by the branch. Other items in the bill
have not been settled and operations are
still suspended. In Waterford, Conn.,
where the bill expires to-morrow, cutters
are agreeable to a $4 minimum and the
1020 feature, although other a-spects of
the bill remain to be considered. Xo re
cent report comes from Stonington,
Conn., where the agreement expires May
1, but previous advices stated that the
cutters were willing to sign an agreement
that will expire in, 1920. There has been
no settlement made with cutters, quarry
men or paring cutters in Rockport, Mass.
Stony Creek, Conn., workers have of
fered to accept a bill similar to that eon-
tended for by Quincr employes. Cutters
there have been holding out for surfacers
to be equipped with suction, but n offer
has been made to discount that conten
tion if the employers will sign an agree
ment to expire in 1910 or 1021. Employ
ers do not accede to the suggestion.
From Keene. X. H., comes the brief re
port:, "Xo chance;' no recent meetinfrs;
none'-' arranged." Fitzwilliam, X. H.:
"The same."
t he Concord, . II., agreement expires
Mav 1. One preliminary meeting has
shot Kim he had used a yard stick. The tion, keeping in mind that some day, not ,-" K'V""""V
shot had passed through, his left check I far distant, the race which is now being ' " , "
u lit Art u-1 1 1 lia uh n frt nrio r a nil
BIG SHIP SUNK.
VERMONT ROADS PRAISED
At the Windsor County Road Builders'
Conference.
White River Junction, March 30 "Ver
mont Country Road and Wht Can Be
Done to Improve Them"' was the subject
of discussion bv road agents and select-
; men from every town in Windsor county
at a dinner tendered to State Highway
British Steamer Diadem of 3,700 Tons
Destroyed.
London, March 30. The British steam- ! Commissioner Stoddard L. Bates of IVr
er Diadem of 3. "Off tons has been sunk, bv at the Junction Jiouse here last cven-
The vessel was la-t reported on her ar
rival at Marseilles February 15 from
Wales.
RESCUING SHIP
WAS FIRED ON
It Is Not Known When Mexican North
western Railroad Will Be Used
to Send Supplies.
San Antonio, Tex., March 30. Wash
ington hag imposed strict secrecy on Ma
jor General Funston regarding the plain
iw uttiiiK uk Aiex lean .ortnwesiern rail
road to send supplies to American troops.
He declined to say c.irly to-day whether
the immediate use of the line would be
ordered. Hope was expressed in military
circles that further negotiations between
the state department and Carranza might
result in the Mexican government niak
inj? ceifain concessions by which the ship
ping problem would be made easier. The
army do-dres authority to place guards
over supplies in transit, even if the goods
msut move as freight.
Because of the feeling that the railroad
up throiiL'h the top of his head
His son, John Kelsey, who until a few
days ago had lived with his parents on
the farm, had moved into Middlebury r.s
he had a jaisition with the thampfaui
aided will be able to reciprocate, and
even now colored conferences of the
South are laying aside money for uso
in other friends of the church.
Rev. Harry G. McCain of Topeka, Kan
Valley Telephone fompany. This, it is i being unable to be present and deliver
thought, may have caused his despond-j a talk on temperance, Dr. Maveety de
ency. Mrs. Kelsey, who had been spend-(voted his opening remarks to that sub
ing a few weeks with their daughter, jject and incidentally handed out words
Miss Bertha Kelsey of Brockport, X. V., (of encouragement, touching upon the re
was expected home to-day. Besides his 'cent referendum vote in this state. Dr.
wife, he leaves four daughters,. Mrs -Maveety expressed the conviction that
Frank Severance. Mrs. K. J. T'per, Mrs. 'never in all history has temperance had
Fred Nash, all of Middlebury, and Mis the success which it is meeting, even the
Bertha Kelsey ot Brockport, X. Y., and
one son, John Kelsey.
GOT PURSE OF GOLD.
Among Other Presents at Their Golden
Wedding Anniversary. .
Bellows Falls, March 30. Mr. and Mrs.
W. J. Conant observed the 50th annivers
ary of their wedding yesterday in their
home at 22 Henry street. Among the
war helping the cause. Prohibition ex
ists in Russia and forms of it in other
European countries.
Referring to the result of the recent
Vermont vote on the liquor question, lo
cal option, he said, is a form of tem
perance and we may expert that absolute
prohibition will eventually follow. Sci
entists, educators, huge lxi.. ness houses,
are lining up with the church on the
question and it is only a question of patience.
The wet forces, declared the speaker.
bill is as much to be insisted upon as the
$4 proposition.- In Chelmsford, Mass.,
the manufacturers met the cutters Fri
day. Minor items were disposed of, but
"1020 and 'any national, state or munici
pal law, etc.' clauses" still in contention.
Xo settlement has been effected in Quin
cy. Forces are still contending over the
length of the agreement. Meetings have
not been held recently and none has been
arranged. Xo settlement has been
reached with the paving cutters in Wes
terly, R. I.
That the uN' ,dant. Rev. Frederick Mc-
Xcil of Graniteville, induced the plaintiff,
I). H. McDonald, to furnish $1,!IH2 by
false statements or representations as
claimed by the plaintiff, was the verdict
loiinu ly the jury in Washington eounty
eonrt in the case of McDonald v. Mc
Xeil, alleged fraud, the trial of which
commenced the first of this week. Tho
verdict was returned t 0:30 o'clock thi
forenoon, the case having been completed
at 6 o'clock last evening. The jury de
cided that $400 was a fair sum to be
awarded the plaintiff for damages.
Acting under instructions from Judge
Butler, the jury, in returning the verdict,
decided that the fair value of the prop
erty purchased by plaintiff and defend
ant was $1,000 and the difference between
the value of the property as it was and
wnat it would Have been if it had been
as represented by the defendant, amount
ed, according to the jury's estimate, to
$800. Inasmuch aa plaintiff and defend
ant were partners in the purchase, one-
nait or tins amount was taken as due the
plaintiff for damages. Charles L. Holton
acted as foreman of the jury. 'John W.
Gordon represented the plaintiff and Fred
L. Laird the defendant.
An Auto Damage Suit on Trial
The trial of the suit of Mrs. Xina
Lovely of Moretown against Fred A.
Milktn of Barre was started after the
verdict had been returned in the McDonald-McNeil
case. The Moretown woman
is suing Millan for damages sustained
when her carriage wa struck by an au
to mobile below the Bailey farm north of
Montpelier ono night last year. Mrs.
Lovely's carriage was smashed and she
was thrown out.
The following jury is hearing the case:
A. W. White, .John Osbom, William R.
Cooley, Martin S. Herbert, Harry Patter
son, J. W. Averill, Vern Slayton, A. E.
ross, b. A. .Nelson, John F. Lee, Lucius
L. Knapp and Burt R, Nelson. The plain
tiff is represented by F. L. Laird and the
defendant by William Wishart.
Witnesses heard this morning were the
plaintiff, who told of the collision, and
Frod Laundry, an employe of the Capital
Garage company of Montpelier, who was
driving a car just ahead of Millan's car.
The witness said he heard Millan say at
the time of the accident that his brakes
failed to work properly and that ho
would pay for the damage. Witness told
of taking Mrs. Lovely to her home.
CARS ARE TILTED
AT SHARP ANGLE
will not solve the transportation prob- Kift, presented them was a purse of gold j" recognizing the inevitable and rap
lem under the conditions imposed the!? ., . , .. idly people are getting out of the liquor
operation of motor trucks between Co- ,rom l"e . mp " , lne ' Par,.s" or lm" business. He urged his listeners not to
lumbus and the field base will be con
tinued for the present.
TRACING SOURCE
OF VILLA MONEY
Department of Justice Agents Follow the
Trail to New York and Other
American Cities.
Washington, D. C, March 30. Agents '
manuei ciiurcii ana omer-rnends. f jimil,-aj r ; i the
xi. (".... ; ij..n.... Voil e . ' ..... ,
v v ... , , i., ,.-0 , .,irgt gt(, tOWBrj temperance, ultimately
reoruarv ss, iimj, ana nas always nveaito ftllowe)1 by state wide prohibition
here. He has been sexton of Immaniiel !anJ b nBtionai prohibition. Don't use
church since September, 1875, and has tl(e .orJ tom wranpe nvmore, instructed
lived in Bellows talis longer than any j, MaVeety, but talk of prohibition of
other present resilient. Following the LIcoholi(. p()j9on-
Civil war he was captain of Company h, The nit Soth is j f,vor of leln.
12th ermont regiment, two years. Lerance because of the terrible effects of
Mrs. Conant was born in tlmton, X. the ejjr0( ,lthollg1( probably,
., November 0, 184,, and came to live t,e white South is not any more tein
here when she was seven years of age. !,.. .,. ,t,. ,irk..m ..t.. I f.
When she was 14 she went to Chicago
and attended a high school. She also
ing.
The affairs was given by the good
roads' committee of the board of trade,
consisting ot imvui a. . i..in Xpw York and other cities which, it
t'.''- ( n ' ("":r,"' I- ' Pa nur n,ns believed, when fully developed, will
I). H. Miller, and brought together more I ,l,lrl, Th .!1...,J;.,
.... iiiv lintiii( , lll.rill
the 24 different towns in the county.
of the department of justice following 'attended the Wheaton female seminary
DEATH OF F. B. CATE.
Former Real Estate Man in Barre Died
at Nashua, N. H.
A telegram received in Barre last night
by Mrs. Dean Bassett announced the
death of Frank B. Cato, former resident
of Barre, who passed away at his home
in Nashua. X. H.. yesterday afternoon at
3 o'clock. Mr. Cate had been in failing
health for some time.
He was born in Cabot May 14, 1845.
Removing to Massachusetts many years
ago he was for several years the post
master at Chestnut Hill. He came to
Barre in 1800 and after residing here a
few month he engaged in the real estate
business. Four years ago he moved to
Nashua, where he purchased a place just
outside the city. Latterly he had en
gaged to some extent in the produce busi-
ne-..
Mr. Cate is survived by his wife, who
wss Miss Rilla Shirley of Fryeburg, Me.,
and two brothers. Nelson H. Cate of
Rockford, 111., and Joshua C. Cate of
West Danville. Surviving also are two
sisters. Mrs. Adelia .T. King of Xashua
find Mrs. Helen C. Whittier of Barre.
Other relstivcs left are: Mrs. Dean T.
But No One Was Hurt in Accident to
Boston & Maine Train Near
Boston To-day.
Lacouia, X. IT., March 30. The smok
ing car and two passenger cars on tho
White Mountain Express, south-bound,
on the Boston A Maine railroad, wem
derailed just outside of Boston to-day.
The cars were tipped to an angle of forty-five
degrees and many windows in
them were broken, but the officials said
that no one was injured.
The train was moving slowly and aft
er bumping along the ties for a short
distance, was brought to a halt. Tho
smoker tipped partly over, but the other
two cars remained upright.
PLANS FINE GRANITE PLANT.
uie lean to me American sources ot auii
ply for Villa have uncovered evidence
Submarine Attacked British Destroyer
Which Was Taking Sussex Pas
sengers Out of English
Channel.
David A. Elliott acted as toastraaster
ml the principal speakers were Mr.
lutes and James B. Etee of Montpelier,
president of the Vermont state fair.
Mr. Bate spoke at length upon the
condition of the roads and the exH'ne of
keeping them in fir-t -class condition.
jmhicli. he explained, was le than in
many other states on account of the
!:anlnes of the natural roadbed. Tour
t." he said, '"claimed that Vermont
country rosd were far ahMd of any or-
tlinarv road in .ew Knclsni..
Washington. D. C, March 3. For the
information of the Mute department,
Amerinn Ambador Page at L"mln
today forwarded the rert that the
BritiH destroyer, whiih dtl in rescu
ing the Mirtivor from the us-x, w
it-lf tired uiN.n twtee bv a submarine.
Ambassador Psge ssid t'ie information
ss not o.T,. il but be t ln-vc 1 it autu-jto the !roitiot club rm,
entic moke talk was hel l.
Xo furtlet affidavit mere receive!)
during th -arly boor t-diT froti s ir- j Suitor Wbst makes you think, sir,
vivora ff th ;mix. the Kng !ih nun. that I ill nt N aide to support your
t.e Mni'".tr, Eng ne-r -r c.Vrr "Kt.r
en made, that Villa received aid from
German source is also lieing investigated
but no indication has been given as to
whether any evidence hss been found.
VILLA IN SANTA MARIA.
at Norton. Mass. She was married to
Mr. Conant March 20, IStSfi, in Chicago
DIED FROM MORPHINE.
Abraham Maxneld May Have Taken It
Internally.
Georgia. March 30. Abraham Max-
field of East (Georgia diet! suddenly Wed-
fects not only the negro's morals, but
his economic usefulness.
In vina My a weak race adopts the ; JWwtt of this city, a niece, and three
vices of the stronger race, fall into the ' nephews. Harry H." Cate of Wyant. Ill-
vices before the virtue, and because , Herbert Cate of Rockford, III., and Frank
of this rule, the white man of the South
lias adopted prohibition out of self-defense
and whereas he prohibits for the
negro he also prohibits for himself.
The ten millions of colored people con
stitute a race problem, just as any race
would have constituted a problem given
the same conditions after the rlose of
C. Ring of Xashua.
MISS NELLIE J. HAYES.
A Native of Moretown Died in Mont
pelier.
Miss Nellie J. Hsvcs died at Heaton
Aaron Gustafson of Johnson & Gustafson
Has Let Contract.
On one of the nwst desirable stoneshed
sites in the Barre granite belt, Johnson &
Gustafson, a Granite street firm, is to be
gin work on the erection of a new plant
as soon m the frost is out of the ground,
according to u detailed statement mado
by Aaron Gustafson, bead of the firm,
this forenoon. Between the railroad
track and the new W. A. Milne plant on
Boynton street in the south end. Johnson
& Gustafson plan to have a modern gran
ite working plant ready for occupancy
by July 1. A. B. Lane has been awarded
the contract and once work is started it
will tie expedited as much as possible. .
Specifications in the contract call for a
plant the main dimension of which will
be 180 and 50 feet. It is to be located on
a slope and facilities for dumping wastn
material have, therefore, been provided
by nature. Near the stoneshed an of
fice, two stories high, w ith lateral dimen
sions of 24 and 18 feet is to be built,
j Mr. Gustafson, who has conducted the
i affairs of the concern since Sir. Johnson
retired, has placed orders for the equip
ment, which will be available a soon its
the shed begins to approach completion.
A traveling cwne and a large rain pres
sor have been purchased already.
Mr. lliiftafson's decision to have
shed of his own is due to the fact that
nelav evening from what appears to bejthe war which meant their freedom from M!""- " ' ! . J " :.""..V -rt" . "
th eflWtj of n overdone of morphine Uverr. The tnTImnn Aw torietr is ' ' 1 . , t t , ' , w. . , . . 1 , ' ,
rnrAai r r--t 1 1 1 i s m mi nitniiiit-ai iiina. riif isr m niuitp 111 fiiuMMiiu. 'wr' i-n. -n
Doubtful if He Will Be Caught Till Re-I internal y. Ihe funeral arrsnge-1 working out the same by instructing , hospital for some time, his apprenticeship in twiner, Mas, ram-
ward is Known. , ment. have not l.eenc.MnpleUM. , the "V ith the Bib le .none hand, irVhiel, she returned borne, only to ing to li.rre iWsU he worked
T , n ...... I Mr" 5',fi'" W,V" w,tVr nr,tfortheI!esev;ritemr.m .,I
EIP,o,Tex Unl,30M.M.ry menUer esrly in the winter and ..no th-n ( M.veety emph.s.red the point thai - th.- j SN hrn jn Moretw .V. yirs then for Burke Brothers. Istrt he be-
made no secret to-day to the belief thst be hss appeared not quite nimsclf. Dr. .hurch w.thout the school fails of its I ,h(. (UllB,lt,r of Mich.el and Nsncv came aK i.te.l in ln-incs with Ssn.iiel
ilia had slipp.nl through the cordon of ('. F. Whitney, of the state laboratory ; purpose as is shown by Mex.eo. Cuba and , ,',., sll, ,nt frora ,h,t , J(,hn,n -n,i tlT . tensnrv of a few
w here a
g' tr L
i A ti r re miin-' lie Inther The d T ultr I bare hd
American tr.ws and varranra lore, s oi n giene, iiurimgton. will perform an the rn.i.pp.nes. ire i nuea Pistes in : MB.,ilrr --ith her brother. Ifcinir!. vers in the Ijine rir- le. the firm moved
r g'. rci.nng with him st to I ,nin:te street, .vtiumgn .Mr. -iolin-"n
street. Two other brother jretireil from the biisimv oine tinie sg i.
irnr are 11. ll. Ilve oi w ,tlr nrni w in continue lo retain it ori-j-
vslley. Ranchers from the Chihuahua , the sutopM' di!-ls morphine as the hurch ahne. ' rurr. Pa . and C. M. Ilavea of More. ' mil name.
di'triit said that when it became known can- of ,eth sn attempt will be made j The society has etabl:bej 21 school toB:' aim three sisters. ir. Kie. n.or.t , -rtion of the rumor that another
there was a price on Villa's head, dead; to discover where Xlr. Mafielj ol.tame.J in the South, inrluding a tbeologiral pjher of Vergennea. ytn. V. R. I.rsham . hed wa to I s.iie.1 to the colony of
or mhr. the bandit would b in en- the mort hine. 'seminary at Atlanta, G and medical cf patavta. N. Y and Mis Julia Hare new- plant t't has sprung up in the
j Mr Kt i-ke on -"Country Roads ' pursuing him in Mexico. The latent in- autopy -n the body to day to determine score of years hss done more for the ;jnsllv
with Regard to Agricultural Fair." Fo- ! formation was that the bandit leader wh ther death was caused by morphine , Philippines by church and school co-op-! j.-Kinlev
lowing the dinner the company adjourned wa moving through the Santa Maria and what quantity a,s taken. Miou! 1 :erstN-n than Sjsin did in years wit! ,lir, 'tT
tnt danger of betrayal. It is nt ' The dered i survived bv a niece. liege st Nashville, Tenn. The roh-rel f Montpelier.
with end witiiin recrnt yrr miy. jvr-
in d "ir.g it mylf. Boston Trsn'criit. for ViJa,
known whether American trxip hae,Mr. Flora "uld. who lied with lim. A:iJ need phvw-ian la.I'v. there !-e- i The funeral ill be held at St. Ancu-"hsr. indicate t'.at rer-rt of t ler ir
iet it be known that there i a reward brother, Frank Maxtiel,!, (f j-t .--.ig.a. irg at pre -tit hot one WtT t eery tine' hurb Saturday morning at 9 tmt.e in th same Ime sre t- I takes
died a few we-L sjjo.
4.'i -r"n. The death rate imn; o"clk.
seriously.
