TOE . CLAYTON C
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON. NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 1916.
NO. 12.
CORPORA
COS
0
MEET
Announcement Extraordinary
Those Interested ia Freight Rates in
v and Out of Clayton Should Ob
serve the Fallowing
Editor Clayton Citizen,
Clayton, N. M.,
Dear Sir:
Referring to the attached notice of
hearing upon the subject of estab
lishing a mileage scale for classmates
applicable to freight traffic within the
State of Nsw Mexico, it will be re
membered, as recited in the notice of
bearing, that numerous conferences
were held throughout the state for the
purpose of developing ideas and such
information as might be presented lo
cally from the business men and ship
pers, in order to inform this commis
sion of what the desires of the differ
ent localities were in respect to the
question involved.
The hearing herein called is for the
purpose of obtaining a formal record
upon which this commission can issue
an order prescribing rates that will be
reasonable and uniform and applica
ble to all portions of the state.
It is, therefore, urgently requested
by the commission that the shippers of
the various portions of the state be
some individual who can represent
their interests at this hearing, as it
will be of vital importance to all ship
pers in the final adjustment of such
rates.
Very Respectfully,
State Corporation Commission.
Miaa
FARM DEMONSTRATOR
Nuff Said.
Let's Get Busy and Get
the Money
MABEL RIEGELMAN
Prima Dona Soprano, late of Chicago
Grand Opera Company and riow
with the Boston Grand
Opera Company
Urn
GRAND CONCERT
One Night Only
' Monday Night, April Tenth
Reserved Seats $2.00
On Sale at Roses Pharmacy
Mill
At the New Mission Opera House, Clayton, New Mexico
The following letter from Mr. Coo
ley is self-explanatory and should
meet with an immediate response. The
petitions should be in, arrangements
made for meeting throughout the
county with Mr. Cooley, the authority
granted by the County Board and
Union County get the benefit of $1200
worth of expert service donated by the
state. The letter follows:
Mr. J. A. McCune, Secretary
Farmers' Society of Equity,
Clayton, N. M.
Dear Mr. McCune:
Your letter of March 18 received,
and I note that petitions are already
being circulated among the taxpayers
of the county, asking for a county
agent, and also that you desire that
I come to Union county some time
during April, to take up the county
aeent work.
I beg to inform you that it will not
be possible for me to come to your
county before April 26. However, you
can count on me fore the twenty-sixth
and the balance of the week. I should
be very glad to have you arrange for
meetings in the districts where the
most people can be reached. It
possible that you can arrange an af
ternoon meeting at one place and an
evening meeting at another, and in
this way we would be able to cover
the entire county.
The government and college will be
able to let you have $1200 towards the
support of a county agent, providing
you can raise $1600. It will be nec
essary for me to know whether this
can be done, by the timo I visit you,
as I should like to close up the con
tract on my visit. Then, too, if Union
County is not going to use the money,
I will be at liberty to turn it over to
some other county.
Please notify me as soon as possible
whether I am to come, and the towns
in which the meetings will be held.
Very truly yours,
A. C. COOLEY,
Director of Extension and
State Leader.
"SLATS" RANKIN LEASES , MIS-
' SION
' ; '
A deal was consummated the past
v.i'ek wherein Slatj Rankin leases for
a long term, both the Mission and tnt
Dixie theatres, tho latter being occu
pied by him at present. This puts
the picture business of the city under
one management, in charge of one
man who has demonstrated to the
public his ability to conduct a suc
cessful and appreciated "movie." Mr.
Rankin has played in an open field
here before and iá recognized as being
dp-to-date and aggressive, and not
-o take undue advantage of the public
oy reason of not having competition.
'Slats" Rankin has established for
himself a mighty good reputation as
a picture man in Clayton and this sec
tion of the country.
This new change is effective April
1st, and one of the noted characters
before the public for the past few
years will be shown in the leading role
..in a ery famous . picture entitled
"Threads of Destiny," Evelyn Nesbit
Thaw playing the leading part. Both
houses will be kept open for use, the
Mission being for all regular plays,
and the Dixie to be used in case of
emergency, and overflow meetings.
PROMINENT MAN OF STATE
DIES SUDDENLY
Felix Martinez has Long Been One
of the Leading Figures in New
Mexico
TO THE PUBLIC
The death of Felix Martinez in El
Paso on Wednesday afternoon, after
a brief illness from pneumonia, came
to the people of the state with a shock
of surprise and the sorrow that is felt
is universal. It , was known that he
was ill but.it was, riot considered ser
ious, and even his closest friends were
startled at the news of his demise.
Mr. Martinez was one of the best
known men in New Mexico and has
been in the minds of the democrats
for months past as a man to lead the
party in the present year as he was
the candidate for that party for the
senatorial position when the first leg
islature assembled.
In many branches of business life
he was a conspicuous figure and be
was a man who made friends every
where. He had the quality of good
fellowship and friendliness which en
deared him to all who knew him and
his popularity was very great. The
death of Felix Martinez will be felt
throughout the length and breadth
of the stae. New Mexico State Record.
Clayton Lodge No. 45, I. O. O. F.,
held a very enthusiastic meeting last
Thursday night, exemplifying the
third degree, also having eight visit
ing brethren present from other juris'
dictions, who spent a profitable ses
gion with the local members. Thanks,
come again.
Well, we're all waiting to hear some
body say Germany put Villa up to it.
Miss Jessie Adamson of Hedley,
Texas, is visiting her sister, Mrs. Ola
Jones.
Subject: Relating to the establish
ment of a mileage scale of all class
rates applying within the State of
New Mexico.
Cause No. 16. Notice of Hearing
This proceeding will be held lefore
the State Corporation Commission at
Santa Fe, as a conclusion to numerous
informal conferences held throughout
the State of New Mexico pursuant to
notices given on the 30th day of De
cember, 1915, calling for informal
hearings to be held as follows: (Not
enumerated; Clayton meeting held on
January 29,) all of which conferences
were held and representatives of the
traffic departments of a number of
railway companies being in attend
ance, and the business public being
represented, the purposes being to es
tablish from and to points within the
State of New Mexico, a uniform mile
age scale applicable to class rates
governed by the Western Classifica
tion, as upon exarainaVion of tar
iffs now in effect and admitted by
carriers, the present class rates are
in no wise uniform as now applied in
the various parts of the state, it ap
pearing from such examination of the
tariffsff that from many of the im
portant towns and cities, such as Cle
vis, Albuquerque, Santa Fe, Ro3well
and Las Vegas, and other points on the
lines of railways operating within the
state, that there have been in the
past so-called "jobbers rates" which,
it appears, had no uniform basis, while
from various other points and stations
throughout the state local distance
scales apply, which in many instances
are not uniform, distances considered.
Further, on account of certain ad
justments that have been made on
class rates by order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission upon traffic to
New Mexico from certain defined ter
ritories, such as Kansas City, St. Louis
and Chicago, is becomes necessary, in
order to avoid discrimination as to cer
tain towns and cities from a commer
cial standpoint, to have uniform ad
justment of such rates applying local
ly on outbound shipments from such
towns and cities, and also adjust on
a reasonable basis rates applicable to
shipments originating at smaller and
less important towns and cities with
in the state.
IT IS THERFORE ORDERED by
this commission that there will be a
public hearing held in the offices of
the Commission at the City of Santa
Fe, New Mexico, beginning at ten
o'clock a. m. of Friday, the 21st day
of April, 1916, for the purpose of tak
ing testimony and evidence upon the
questions involved in this proceeding.
Done at the offtees of the Commis
sion in the city of Santa Fe, N. M.,
this 27th day of March, 1916.
M. S. GROVES,
HUGH WILLIAMS,
O. L. OWEN,
Commissioners.
CITIZFNS TICKET " "
Ma'yor,' HHX.TfTammo&d; Ctty"$oun
cil, Christian Otto, Car Eklund, Mot
rin". Hpr7.ntjiri. F. -C. Hfi-Hacn. ' Trena-'
urer. Robert Isaacs, Cleffk M. R. Jones.
DEMOCRATIC TICKET
Mayor,. T..H. Rixey. City "Council,
Geo. H. Wade, Allen Wikoff, Jose Mer-
ced Gonzales, John Spring. Others
not named.
H. C. McFadden, Independent Can
didate for City Treasurer.
OFFICIAL AUDIT
of on .BOOKS
Retiring - Board Make Commendable
Record as Officials of Local
City Government Í
y
In this week's issue of the Citizen
is to be found the financial statement
of the city of Clayton for the period
. - . mi
covering about two years, ine re
Dort should be carefully examined, so
that, you might be welfand properly
M informed as to the premises. It would
appear from the reporj that the busi
ness affairs of the' city were in about
as good condition' as they well could -be,
and that the present board,' com
posed of Mr. H.' J.' "Hammond, at
Mayor, and Mr. Christian Otto, Mr.
SHEEP FEEDING IN NEW MEXICO
A SUCCESS
The prospects now are very en
couraging for the establishing of a
great feeding industry in New Mexico, water system, which is
as the breeding experiment carried on owned, and that we need men of affairs
,T. H. Rixey, Mr. Carl Eklund, the
otKer place being Vecently vacated by
the resignation of Mr. Simon nerz
stein, on account of his being chair
man of the School Board, had given
the city an honest, competent and
efficient administration of their finan
cial affairs.
Among the various and onerous du
ties that involve themselves upon a
city board is the matter of the handl
ing of the finances of the city, and
to this city at this time, it is by no
means a malí consideration. This
city is on the verge of votii.-, bonds
to the amount of 55,000.00 for the
purpose of improving its light and
municipally
by Hon. F. A. Hubbell has resulted
even more favorably than its most
enthusiastic supporters hoped for.
three thousand of the lambs from the
feeding farm of the Hubbella have
to handle these questions is undisput
ed by all.
We believe that we voice the sen
timent of the people of the city as
a whole when we say that the services
Ex-Senator Dorsey Dies in California
Once Prominent Here
The state politicians have tempor
arily suspended operation while the
hold the city elections. And then the
trouble will start all over again.
That law of "safety first" still holds
good, but the details are not "watch
ful waiting" and longer, having been
changed to "immediate prepared'
ness."
been sent to market, and as they went! pf he .retiring board, have beep all
into the feeding pens worth about that we could expect in the adminis
ten thousand dollars and went on the tration of the financial affairs of the
market worth more than twenty-eight city, and that the city owes them a
thousand dollars, there is ample Boom vote of thanks for their competent
for a splendid profit Mr. Hubbell has although gratuitous, services rendered,
agreed to make public the entire busi- Not only is praise due the board but
ness end of the experiment for the it is likewise due the other members
benet of the small fanners of the 1 of the city officials, particularly the
state, as he contends they can create I city clerk, for on him rests all the
an industry representing a cash money detail conected with making and keep-
movement of more than twenty-five I ing check of the city's affairs and
millions of dollars annually by feed- which comes to us in a plain under-
ing just the sheep bred in New Mex- standable manner, as is indicated ia
ico. tneir report. Mr. Jones has been a
He conducted the experiments un- faithful servant and will have the
der conditions easily duplicated on any distinction of being the only man that
farm in New Mexico, at a nominal will be a candidate to succeed himself
cost for pens and grain troughs. Ho without competition.
erected no shelters, letting the weather
do its worst, and is now satisfied that
at the final costing up it will be found
that New Mexico feeders will have an
advantage because of the climate of
nearly three head of sheep in ten,
which of itself is a good profit In
other words, one ton of feed in this
state will carry about ten head of
sheep as against seven and eight in
other feeding states.
From all parts of the state the head
of the candidate is bobbing to the sur
face in the political pool and the news
papers of New Mexico have in every
issue columns devoted to the an
nouncements of those who are going
to enter the field in county, district
and state.
One of the recent entries is that of
Antonio Rivera, of Taos county, for
the district attorneyship for the dis
trict composing the counties of Col
fax, Taos, Union and Quay.
Mr. Rivera was admitted to the bar
at the last examination and passed a
most creditable mark. He is one of
the strong men in his county and as
county clerk has made an enviable
record. His county will support him
strongly. State Record.
Card of Thanks
Mr. and Mrs. M. Hester, wish to
thank their friends for their kind help
fulness, assistance and sympathy dur
ing the sickenss and death of their
child. '
The death of Ex-Senator Stephen
W. Dorsey, in Los Angeles last Sun
day recalls to all citizens of New Mex
ico one of the former well known fig
ures in this Btate in the days when we
were a territory. The "Dorsey Ranch"
in Colfax county was one of the feat
ures in the days gone by and is still
a most picturesque place even though
it is an example of the decay that
comes to those things which have be
come neglected and deserted. It was
here that Bob Ingersoll used to meet
the well known senator and the dis
tinguished orator built a home near
the ranch long since passed into other
hands.
Stephen W. Dorsey was a prom
inent figure in the political field in
the seventies and was senator from
Arkansas from 1873 to 1879, and
chairman of the national republican
executive committee in 1876 and after
ward secretary. He was a veteran of
the civil war. Senator Dorsey has
been a resident of California since
leaving New Mexico, but his name will
Spring is reconnoitering and pres- long be remembered here by those who
ently will make a serious attempt to I enjoyed the hospitality of the famous
break through. and beautiful home erected out on the
plains of Colfax county, where the
It costs a lot of mnnov to Wat, senator ranged the cattle which helped
girls, and even after they graduate, to brinf? the w?alth he "cumulated
'vtj av n ut wiciii die aUIC IV Blip I
port husbands.
Now that Villa has had his fun, it
is the turn of the United States army
to shoot up somebody.
There is a strong demand for cop-
Slowly the conviction grows that per properties and a number of im-
military strategy is largely a matter portant sales are expected for New
of explaining accidents. Mexico in the very near future.
