She Sueumeari 7lew$
0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-3-0-0-0
Largest Circulation i Qi,4y oouatr
Paper In Quy Co f j
n-o-n-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o
OO-O-O-O-O-O-OO-0-O-O-Q-O-O
AdrerUacrH Know Where to
Place Their Add
OO-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
VOL. XIV
TUCUMCAltl, QUAY COUNTY. NI5W MKXICO. THURSDAY. MARCH .'III. Hltii
NO. 27
I"
TICKET SLOGAN
Thi) porsonel of the Good Govern
moot ticket is aliout as follows:
Mr. Joseph Israel, the candidate for
mayor, has been a resident of Tucum
cari ovor since its infancy. He has
been nlfilinted with every proposition
which he thought for the upbuilding
if the town and eommunity. Ho has
qicnt several thousand dollars on pub
lic propositions such as the irriga
tion project, commercial club work,
etc.. and may always lie counted on
to donate Ids share toward entertain
ment or social function gotten up for
the Rood of the city. In another col
umn he says what he will do if elect
ed mayor, if you lielieve he's right
he will appreciate your support.
The other candidates are all well
known to the citizens of Tucumcari.
Herman Gerhardt, candidate for the
office of city treasurer is n man of
unquestioned ehaiacter and honest as
it is possible for man to be. He has
-orved the people faithfully and will
do so again if elected.
S. C. Campbell, is the present in
cumbent of the clerk's office and the
citizens know him well enough with
out any comment from the News.
V. I.. Kirkpatricl; is the candidate
for councilman in l.-t ward and his
popularity is well known. He has
been a resident of Tucurncuri for
many years and now owns and oper
ates a plumbing establishment. He
will make a good otlicial and will al
ways be found working for the up
building of Tucumcari. He knows
what we need and will make a valu
able addition to the city council should
the voters of 1st ward elect him.
Thos. Ridley is a young man who
has grown to manhood in Tucumcari.
He is known a- a capable industrous
young business man. He believes in
progress as all young men should and
no city ever made a mistake by elect
ing young men to handle its business
affairs.
(). C. Goodloe is recognized by the
voters of third ward as the invincible
candidate. He is already elected and
if his future record is as good as the
past there is something good in store
for him if it is within the gift of the
citizens of Tucumcari. He stands for
right openly and above board. It is
.1 tribute to Tucumcari to enjoy a
itizenship that recognizes the ability
if a man like Mr. Goodloe.
Fourth Ward has placed a man on
the ticket in the por.on of W. Free
burg, as candidate for councilman, who
-Hinds high in the estimation of the
voters of chut wanl. No man in the
ward would serve the people hotter
than Mr. Freuburg. He h an honest
workman and will lend valuable as
sistance in business matters -hould
lie be elected nest Tuesday.
All these candidates are pledged to
,uppori the platform adopted by the
itizen- in their meeting last week,
.itA i "lected they will certninly do
their part to uphold the -lugnn adopt
ed at Mif inn - men int. "Tucumenri
l'ir.-i."
TUCl.MCARI I'll 1 1. HARMON It
SOCIETY'S CONCERT PRIL 27
Proceed to Go to Some Wort In
Ohjc. t. rtisls to li'
Engaged. ,
Ai a veiy enthusiast i meeting of;
the Philharmonic Society mi Thursday
night, the musical directoi was em
powered tu us" hi- discretion in ai
ceptinu or rejecting local talent for
the t horu.-, and in -eleetim; "foreign"
art into for olo worl.. as w-ll a l.
augment the chorus. Diroc.. ll""ring
plans to go io F.I I'asu and Mhuq.
ipie in the near future in search of
high grade musical material be en
gaged for the concert in April.
Pluns are under way to use an oi
chestra. specially organized for the
occasion, to accompany the choru
work, as well a.- to play special orches
tral number.-. A very high class program-
-probnhlj, more ambitious than
any ever befon attempted in Tucutn-eari-
will be presented. The Choral
numbers will be Andorton'. setting of
Longfellow's poem, "The Wreck of the
Hesperus," Gounod's beautiful anthem
(by many considered bin greatest)
"Send Out Thy Light." Sir John Goss's
"Ik-hold! 1 Bring You Good Tidings,"
oud (in lighter vein) that rollicking
song, ever reminiscent of our dear old
school life. "College Days."
The character of the music rendered
will range from tlte lightest ((almost
frivolous) to the most serious (Gou
nod), so that this uniqu" musical event
should appeal to all. An elfort will
be made to include an expert reader,
and other attractions in the program.
A complete announcement will appear
in this pape r later.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
Services as usual may be expee-od
at the Presbyterian church next Sun
day at ll a. m. and 7:!Hi p. m.. con
ducted by thu pastor.
Sunday School, 10 a, tn.
Christian Endeavor, UiBO p. m,
11
TUCUMGAR
FIHS
GOOD GOVERNMENT
PROHIBITION FIGHT ON
Tulerosa, N. M.. Mar. 20, HHte
During the past week, the forces fa
voring prohibition have circulated a
petition to be presented to the County
Commissioner of Oteto county pray
ing that body to call nn election to
decide the question of whether or not
the barter, salo or exchange, of into.v
icating liquors shall be prohibited as
provided by law. The saloon forces
are busy and have circulated a peti
tion to have a precinct election in pre
cinct number three which includes
Tulanisa and in which precinct tne
saloons have their strongest hold in
the county. Whai action the Com
missioners will take is not known.
The anti-saloon people opened their
lecture campaign last night when a
public meeting was held in the local
Baptist church, the meeting was ad
dressed by Rev. Edward J. ilocring,
Rector of the Episcopal church of Tu
cumcari. The church was well Tilled and the
address wa- highly appreciated as
Rev. Hnering presented the question
in a logical manner, basing his argu
ments upon the teaching of the bible
and in such language that a child, as
well as an adult, could comprehend.
At thu close of the sermon, the au
dience was favored by Mr. Hoering
with two violin solos which proved tho
speaker to lie master of thut instru
,mont, as well as of speech.
Rev. Hoering went to the home of
Dr. McDaniel after the meeting, and
there entertained the large number of
young people who followed him from
the church to the McDaniel home, with
more high-class music.
It is Rev. Hoering's object to estab
lish regular services in Tulnrosa.
THE YOFNG .MEN'S
DEMOCRATIC CLUB
Thi- organization meets at the court
house every two weeks. The next
meeting will be Friday. April 7th, at
7 :.',() p. m.
It'- object i- ' teach and promul
gate Democracy, and all men every
where in Quay county are welcome
and are solicited to attend and join
the mighty army of Democrats who
educate, build and crown the best
people in the world under the banner
of Democracy. The slogan of tho
club is "Democracy--Sunrise, and not
Sunset."
These are days of construction, of
progress "Leaving life's outgrown
shell by life's unresting sea. Prepar
ing the American youth mentally,
morally and physically by having him
do the things that strengthen the na
tions resources.
The officer are: President, Isaac
Kirkpatrick; Secreta y, V. R. Coplen;
Assistant Secretary, James Briscoe;
Treasurer C E. Hawkins.
There nre also various committees
who look after the business of the
organization.
At each meeting there is .i most,
excellent program of speeches on live
issues o" the day.
J. C. WILLIAMS.
I'te.ss Reporter
WILLARD DEFEATS MOUAN
New York. Mnrch 25.- -less Willard
is still the heavyweight pugilirtie
champion of the world. In ten rounds
of fast fighting he defeated Frank
Moran of Pittsburgh here tonight on
points.
crowd of about I ...000 persons
paid approximately $150,000 to see tho
tight and went away apparently snt
islled with the result. It was the
greatest gathering Madison Square
Garden has ever .seen. Many women
were in the throng.
Willard broke his right hand in tiie
hinl lonnd, but blows from his light
ing left kept Moran at a distance.
Moran' best round was the third and
hi worst probably was the seventh,
lb' wa bleeding after the fifth round,
and his left eye was almost closed at
the end. Willard was rushed to the
i ope j in the third and received blow
after' blow on the lace. The crowd
-used ;i knockout but the tini-hing
punch vn" lacking.
Moran put up a garni light. Most
of the time he crouched nnil forced
the lighting. Willard seemed slower
on his feet than the challenger and
appeared to have an unlimited capa
city to take punishment. Moran scowl
ed as he fought but Willard smiled.
The awarding of the bout to Wil
lard on points was virtually unani
mous among the exports about the
ringside, although all gave Moran
credit for his gnmencis and continual
efforts to land a punch that would
bring down his gigantic opponent.
T. I GORMAN, DEMOCRAT
TUCU.MCARI'S PO'TV MF.R
Word wbh received hero last week
of the appointment of T. F. Gorman
as' postmaster, of Tucumcari, ,TVlr.
Gorman has nut been officially notified
hut it is understood that President
Wilson sent his recommendation to
thu senate last Friday for confirma
tion and there is nn doubt about tho
outcome.
Mr. Gorman is a worthy democrat
and tho first one ever put in chargo
of the Tucumcari postoftlec, and tho
News wishes to congratulate tho ad
ministration upon its choice of Mr.
Gorman as our next postmaster.
Vote for Joseph Israel for .Mayor
next Tuesday.
LEE (J. PEARSON ANNOUNCES
FOR TREASURER-COLLECTOR I
On editorial page this week appears
the announcement of Le" (5. Pearson
who aspiies to be lo-elc-isid to thu
offce of Treasurer and Ev-Olllein col
lector oT Quay county.
Mr. Pearson came to thin county
several years ago and homesteaded a
claim southwest of town. He after
wards moved to town and conducted
a lumber yard until he took up the
duties of county troamrci . He wiik
elected by a good strong democratic
majority and has proen himself in
every wny worthy of the confidence
bestowed upon him. The residents
of the county do not lefer to him as
Mr. Pearson, it is Lee Pearson and
he is no doubt the best known man in
Quay county partly because of the
office he now holds and mostly he
cause ho never forgets friends, anil
he has made hosts of them because
of his strict attention to business and
untiring efforts to serve the oters
who put him in this office.
Through his efforts and the co-operation
of the taxpayer.- of Quay coun
ty he has made an enviable state rec
ord. It appears mnny times in the
large papers in the state that his of
fice is at the top of the list in matters
of collection and manner i it which tho
office affairs are kept. The following
paragraph is typical of how our coun
ty ofllcers stand with those who have
been here and examined the books for
themselves :
"The hooks of Quay count. in tho
treasurer's office and that of the coun
ty clerk are in the best condition of
any of the records in tlte state, ami
that is 'going some.' "
During the last :D. years tho col
lection of Mr. Pearson office amount
ed to more than 08 per cent of thu
whole amount due. Some of the coun
ties of the state do not collvct more
than 00 per cent of the taxes assess
ed. The amount shown on the books
to bo collected was .? 117,01 1, lil and
that collected by Mr. Pearson is SIM,
IWt.HU, leaving a small balance un
collected of .S.'i.'vWO.M miring a period
covering 'A'-? years. Taxes have been
reduced on land notwithstanding tho
length of school term has been in
creased. When Mr. Pearson came in
to office some of the country districts
were figuring on running their schools
only every other year, hut since ho
has made such good collections they
have run regularly every year for u
period of five months with the term
being increased to seven mouths last
year and the teachers have no trouble
drawing their pay.
Another place" where good collet-;
Hon have saved the property owners
cons,. Icrahlc money is in the publica
tion of delinquent tax lists. For tho
years 11)08. Hill!). l'.MO and 1011. tho
count records show that the publi
cation fee for the delinquent tax list
alone amounted to $1.01 1. 10. and tliero,1"!' Pnl-. tt 1,uit "' ? lh;,Ml
is considerable other e: ponse attached ', I'imples. which led om to the goal o
to the handling of delinquent taxes':" ". private lite. ( andidly.
which must be charged to the tax-pay-1101!1,.'1 u'hv ,,,lcr,!"1 '' 'hl' W'""
ers. The records show the publico- ,u,,,'l,l i"ay cuty. I" 'll"rt my
tion fees for the last two yea.- to , "didacy for the genera, w-llare of
less than S125. This sa.-ing does not 1 "II concerned.
look good to the newspapers but .1 M""-v. ,,,aUer' 01 v,l" '"'P;'l.tme
should appeal to the voters who own i ncurnniK ' -'u'y. ;- due lor
no interests in a newspaper. ,l't,n '." t'"' l''',1 ,dvi" "'u-s"'"-
It is not claimed by Mr. Penr-on's I '" htaiii consideration tor ou. county,
r.i...,.i. ii.... i... iL- .1 i , Mi majority tor your eanilniaie for the
n..... .1.,.. ...... i.i i,.., ,
M,,J II... .....V
such a good record, but they do cluini
that they are proud of his record and
glad that their confidence in his ability
to conduct the affairs of the treasur-,
er's office has not been misplaced and
if his friends nominate him on the
ticket this fall it will show his untir
ing efforts to accompli di a given task
are fully comprehended and duly ap
preciated. FAUSNACHT HORNE
Mr. Clay Fausnacht and Mis.- Min
nie Horn, two of Tucumcari'.- best
young people, were married last week.
They went to El Paso on their wedding
lour and returned here the latter part
of the week. Mi. and .Mrs. Fausnacht
have gone to housekeeping in the Pej, -ton
property on south 1st street.
Mr. Fausnacht is an employee of
the E. P. A: S. W., and enjoys tho
friendship of a large circle of fellow
workmen. Miss Home was chief operator at
the telephone central and has been
resident of Tucumcari a number of
years, being a graduate from the -hi.
cal high schoo . Shu was competent
assistant in the office and will no
doubt be just as competent in thu
llOniO
The News together with the host
of friends desires to extend congrat
ulations for a long and happy married
life.
OUT FOR JOB IN SENATE
I. H. Welch was in from Forrest
this week on business. He called at
this office and informed us that he
intends to make the race for statu
senator on the democratic ticket. Mr.
Welch is known to nearly ovory voter
in thu county, as he was one of thu
representatives elected two years ago.
He made a good oflicial and points to
the record made while serving In that
capacity as proof of what ho can do
if given a cliance to servo tho people
in tho state senate. Morally Mr.
Welch has fuw superiors and hUs de-
mocracy is unquestioned.
HORSE STOLEN NEAR A I. LION
SSI) REWARD FOR Till Eh
The trotting-iued stallion belonging j
to R. P. Donohoo, which was being
kept oh a farm near Allen, wio stolen i
on the night of Wednesday, March 2'-'. j
The horse and saddle h supposed to j
have been taken b a man named ;
Dowlin. who is about 28 years old, five
feet, six inches high, red complection i
He wear- a white hat, black suit with '
stripe, red sweater shirt laced in front I
ha- black bouts plit in itntop and
laced with string.
A reward of Si'U.oO i olforcd fur
the horse and thief, or .?2fi.00 for eith
er The stallion i . six years old, fif
teen hands high, wuighs about t00
pounds, white stripe in foiehead, right j
hind foot white, no brand. This horse i
was a well bred animal and i very i
stylish.
Officers are searching for the thief ;
and hope to capture him before he
disposes of the horse.
ALBERT CALISCH, OUR CANDI
DATE FOR SENATOR. EXPRES
SIVELY ADDRESSES TIIE
PEOPLE OF QUAY CO.
The announcement of my candidacy
for Senator of Quay county, subject
to the democratic primaries, has been
before the people during the past week.
Several letters, and many expressions
most complimentary, and flattering
promises of support have been receiv
ed, and I feel it incumbent upon me to,
at this time, make some statement
outlining my attitude.
At the solicitation of a number of
Quay county's most highly respected
democrats I entered the race for the
office of senator. I sincerely appre
ciate the importance of its attainment.
If elected I will feel the honor keenly,
and mean to uphold the dignity of
the office under every possible emer
gency. Uncqtiivocably and irrevocably every
Democratic principle shall be main
tained. Every data of history makes
this imperative, of every citizen who
has read, studied, and expeiienced,
and in my position it shall be upheld.
My adopted slogan, "The Greatest
Good, for the Largest Number,"
states concisely just, what I men..
It is my intention, to act heart, and
soul, witli brawn, and brain for the
benefit of QUAY COUNTY. It is my
hope, to he enabled to make life a joy
worth living in our county for demo
crats. lopublicans, progressives, socialist.-,
or whatever political faith any
of our citizens individually or collet--
!n"-v ')ro,'l'ss- . snor,, '
with all ntv power, to be really, truly,
surely ntr reprejemntivt. Elimi
nate an. thought of uni'iiguousnus
on my part, or nnv. d'.'-she t'oi hero
worship. Plainly, 1 mean business,
simply, and intend for the benefit of
-senate, should be piled up -o high,
1. . . l.U, I 11
UUll M IIUJl til l-J.llltv.-l .J4tll-.ll . V. Ilir-
i"mvl "m! the members from other
'"" w w, w l,,k'1 Wl" cclll,m;
',',-en.ls. enthuusiasm at home will
create enthusiasm abroad. Hearing in
mind, 'The Greatest Good, for the
Largest Number," I feel confident the
intelligence accredited the citizens of
Quay county will only add additional
evidence to the correctness of the
fact, by allowing themselves to be
guided through my appeal, and advice
to support thi- candidate who prom
ises "The Greatest Good, for the Larg
est Number."
Faithfully, your servant,
ALBERT CALISCH
DRILLING FOR OIL
Hicks and Jones, cattlemen, of near
Cuervo, are drilling for oil on their
ranch northwest of that town.
Last week an oil rig was unloaded
at Cuervo where drilling has begun
I f.n- ..SI mill irtiv nil lt rtitwdi mill if
; js und,.rMoiM, thl lhn;L. wv8 wm ,u
I tt8 f0H0W: (,. :, mik.s; onu
miUl(. aml onu ,, ,nileK from town
, h ftn. ,a,ifactory. The
u,sl 'wp,H ar(, tf) ,,n(() f(.ut
, Thjs wl ,M. n t u,, for lhu
!,.., nf ,,.,,.,. , oil ..,. ..r
I I. win it iwl try n y mitii it titnVii touti. lift
IWV,lltV.14 41111 IMIIJ IUVtHI MUM nv
this way where it is thought oil can
he found.
" NEW PUMPING MACHINERY
Tiie electric light rompuny is put
ting down cement floors and founda-
I tions this week preparatory to install-
ing new machinery for the pumping
of city water, lhu capacity wits
reached last summer and had it not
been for timely rains thu company
would have been unable to pump
enough water to supply the demand.
The now machinury and equipment
, wlli be canable of numninir about
"00,000 gallons per day, ami it is
expected to kuop thu pumps working
. hours each day.
j
Voto for Joseph Israel for Mayor
next Tuesday.
"THE RATTLE CRY OF PEACE"
A -ernion was delivered at the
Olympic Theatre lust night a twen
tieth century sermon entitled "The
Battle Cry of Peace."
It was a moving pictuie -ermon
which will lie preached every day in
the future, as long ai- people will
look at it. and it is a sermon most of
us need.
It is the leviewers task to choose
a course between extravagant superla
tives and the commonplace of mere
fact. "The Battle Cry of Peace" does
not make for moderation. It causes
the blood to pound through the veins,
driven by a heart aroused ovur the
prophetic picture of a vital menace of
the future, rather than a sentimental
portrayal of past history It is an
unapologized-for appeal for prepara
tion against war and that it demanded
no apology was evidenced by its en
thusiastic reception by a large audi
ence. It was a typical first night. Even
ilie author. .1. Stuart Blacktou, who
based his scenario on Hudson Max
im's book, "Defenseless America" was
present and made a curtain speech.
He was welcomed on behalf of the
city and introduced by Health Com
missioner Robertson. It was a real
occasion
.....w... .
"If you are surprised, if you are I
horrified and shocked by this picture, )
1 am glad of it." the author said.
i lint was the intention, tor what is;tntngfrom them regarding Villa move-
set forth is only to a trifling degree
as terrible as what is taking place in
Europe to-day. We are preaching
propaganda a peace propaganda - -but
not the Bryan kind.
Then, to add to the dramatic at
mosphere, there was a pieturesquu
lovable old man made known to the
audience as Captain Jack Crawford,
who served the Union throughout thu
civil war. "Captain Jack." too. talked
for preparedness and aroused great
enthusiasm when he recited patriotic
verses and waived an American flag.
England should devise a "Battle Cry
of Peace" in her enlistment cam
paign and recruits will tumble over
themselves to serve "King and Coun
try." Technically the Vitagraph picture
violates most of the established tra
ditions of cinematography, but by so
doing the story is told more effective
ly. When the first reel is flashed on
thu screen Hudson Maxim is dis
closed delivering his lecture on pre
paredness against war. His words
are made known by frequent captioris
and these are followed by graphic
portrayals of his statement. He telU
what aforeign enemy could do, and
lo, the enemy does it. The producers
have blazed a new and interesting
trail into the "movies." Thcj have
dared much and their judgment was
well founded. "The Battle Cry of
Peace" will achieve a vogue hecaine
it is essentially sincere.
Of the individual performers Charles
Richman stands out ahoe the rest.
He cannot help it; he was given the
pail; but the work of Belle Bruce as
Alice Harrison discloses that she is an
emotional actress of more than ordi
nary ability. Marj Maurice, a.- tho
mother, maintains her right to honoi
able mention, a.- do the other principals.-
-Chicago American.
The above attraction will appear in
Tucumcari at the New Theatre April
S and '.) two days.
WY ATT NATIONS VNNOUNCKS
FOR COUNTY COMMISSIONER
On editorial page this week appears
the announcement of T. W. Nations,
of lma, a- a candidate for county com
missioner from the Second District.
Wyalt Nations has lived in Quay
county several years, i.- a democrat
and has always worked for the party.
He has made a success at stock-farming
and knows Quay county from one
side to the other, therefore he knows
he value of every foot of land within
her borders. lie own.- considerable
property and if elected to office, will
perform his duties economically and
business-like.
Men like Mr. Nations should bo en
couraged to come out for office bo
cause there is reason to believe that
men who have made a success of there
own business are the kind needed to
run the county affair. If the demo
cats choose him a: their candidate
for commissioner from 2nd district,
he will be elected b a big majority
and lend strength to the whole ticket
in tho fall election.
U N I V ERS1TY Com m encem ent
Albuquerque, N. M.. March 27.
Preliminary announcement of the com
mencement program of the University
of New Mexico for 101(1, was made
today by President David R. Boyd
He announced that the commence
ment address this year will be mado
by Hon. W. C. Reid, of Albuquurque
and Rnswell, and the baccalaureate
sermon by Rev. Father A. M. Manila
lari, S. (!., of Immaculate Conception
Parish, Albuquerque. Thu commence
ment exorcises occupy tho second
week in May.
In addition to his active participa
tion of public affairs, covering a nor
iod of many years, Mr. Reid has be-
come widoly known as a student of
educationnl matters and has been ono
of tho nctlve influences for improved
Now Mexico educational system. Ho
has been invited tn choose his own
subject.
pi
LEAD IN PURSUIT
Washington ,D. C. Maitli 20 Gen
Carranza has decided to permit Un
united States army to use the Mexico
Northwestern railway for the trMRs
portation of supplius to A murium)
forces in the punuit of the Villa ban
dit. The use of the railroad will mo f
cilitatc the movement of troops unit
supplies that the work of the punitive
expedition into Mexico will be greatly
shortened.
San Antonio. Texas, March 28.
Francisco Villa was moving toward
Santa Catarina in the Santa Marin
valley, four days ago. according to In
formation secured by Col. George A.
Dodd, Sunday, and forwarded to Gen.
Funston today by Brig. Gen. J. J.
Pershing, commanding the American
expeditionary forces in Mexico.
flj.M P..-tfiitrif. ...I.I...I .1.. .1...
. v.o.....f ...t.tvii .11. tt. IIIU ISI-
dents of the valley appeared friendlv
to Villa and that it was with great
difficulty that the scouts learned any-
mentis. Gen. Pershing was known to
he with one of the advanced column
today, but at his own request thu po
sitions of his troops were not re
vealed. All detachments operating south and
east of Nn mi qui pa were reported to be
flushing forward at high speed and
from the American frontier to the
last supply base the quartcrmHutur's
department was working at high
pressure to keep moving thu largo
volume of supplies. As to the details
of the actual chase of Villa, however,
(Jen. Funston and his staff knew little
more than the public.
The war department has returned
the long report of Col. ii. J. Slocum.
I.'lth cavalry, on the Columbus attack
with instructions t o have the colonel
amplify it. Col. Slocum is command
ing troops now more than 200 miles
from this border and a revision of his
report is not expected for some time.
It has been sent to him, however.
Lieut. Col. W. S. Scott today left for
Douglas, Ariz., ro take command of
thu Frst cavalry, relieving Col. E. H.
Foltz, who is ill.
Twenty Apache Indians for scout
service with Gen. Pershing's force in
Mexico will be selected by Capt. Haz
ard, commander at Fort Apache, In
Arizona.
Gen. Pershing suggested using the
Indians and requested that he be sent
about 20.
AN INSliRRECTO AMONG US
Sunday afternoon a Mexican entered
the office of Sheriff Moye with the
information that two Mexican womun
iiad thrown him a note from the sec
ond floor of the old Royal hotel In
which note they stated that they were
being held in bondage and wished to
have the authorities release them ami
deliver them from then persecutor.
Sheriff Moye and Chief of Policu Ir
vine went immediately to the place
where they found tho women locked
in the upper story of the building by
means of padlocks which decorated
the outside of the door-. From the
women Sheriff Moye obtained the in
formation that they were forced into
bondage by a Mexican by the name nf
Juan Luna who had held ono of the
women in this bondage since last July:
locking her in the house when he left
for work and never permitting hor to
go about the streets. The other wom
an he had forced into bondage only
recently. Luna appeared and ShorifT
Moye and Chief Irvine proceeded to
place him under arrest which pro
cedure didn't please General Luna,
with thu result that he endeavored to
reach his lied room where he had onu
revolver hanging on the bedstead, one
beneath the cover.-, and a bowio knife
under his pillow. Only prompt work
on the part of the officers prevented
a probable insurrection of local color
ation. Luna is repoited to be a bad
character, it being stated that he took
one of the women held in bondage
to the stock pens recently with th in
tention of killing her if she refuged
to stay with him. Luna is being huld
under a multiplicy of charges which
will no doubt result in a trip "ovor
the road."--Clovis Journal.
GALLUP SPECIAL EDITION
The Gallup Independent issued one
of the best special editions that has
come to our desk in many a day. It
contained 70 pages of live news and
boost mattur for McKinley county and
the Statu of New Mexico in general.
It shows Gallup to be one of the I i vest
towns in thu state. The illustration.
are new and timely and the reading
matter was not a reproduction of an
cient history. The work was all done
at Gallup and would be a credit to any
town.
Most of our exchanges seem to
think that as a poet Mr. Owen Wistor
is n very good novelist.
When a married man goos homu
hungry late at night, he always gets
a piece of tongue and roast.
PERSHING ASSUMES
OF MEXICAN BANDIT
