Till COURIKB
la dwotad to Ui bant InUnwata
of Bl'RAY awl WlIICKLEIt
OOUNTlf. Tha lltwral patron
a of tha oltlMna of Uiia too
Uun la raapootf uUy aollaltad.
PuMIoImI orory Tboraday by
RUSSELL D. FR1CK.
Subscription Bataa
WTaar 11.00
Is Moatha JO
ThraaMoatha M
VOL. XIV.
SPIlAr, WHEELER COUNTY, OKEGpNV THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 1910.
NO. 7.
mL
WORLD'S DOINGS
OF CURRENT WEEK
Brief Resume of General News
from All Around the Earth.
UNIVERSAL HAPPENINGS IN A NUTSHLU
Live News Items of All Nations and
Pacific Northwest Condensed
for Our Busy Readers.
Russiuna take three line of Gorman
tranche with bayonets.
Villa la reported to have held up a
train ana searched It for Americana,
but found none.
One of the Amorlcan cotumna pene
trated 60 miles into Mexico before it
waa (Uncovered by the nativea.
It ia believed the government will
soon define clearly ita attitude toward
the entire aubmarine quostion.
President Wilson Waa back In Wash
ington Friday after a brief visit to
Philadelphia to have hla eyea examined.
UmgreiM avoids any unnecessary
dlacuasion of the Mexican question.
but ia ready to authorize war measures
at a moment a notice.
Yuan Shi Kai renounces the throne
of China and proclaims the restoration
of the republic, but h(a opponent say
the change ia too late to save him.
Instructions to recruit the 12 Na
tional Guard companies of Arisona to
war atrength immediately were trans
mitted to the company commanders by
order of the War department.
An army aviator waa found by a
wagon train after being: lost in the
Mexican desert for 48 hours. He re
paired hla leaking tank, received a
aupply of gasoline and waa soon on his
way.
The house education committee voted
unanimously to take no action on pend
ing bills to reopen the North Pole con
troversy. Dr. Frederick A Cook re
cently asked the committee to invest!
gate hia claims.
The Hay army Increase bill, provld
ing for a regular army peace strength
or 140,000 fighting men instead of the
present 100,000, passed the houae by
a vote of 402 to 2. It goea to the sen
ate for immediate consideration.
A dispatch to the Balkan agency
from Bucharest says the chief clerk of
the American legation at Sofia is re
ported to ' have been arrested by the
Bulgarian authorities, accused of giV'
ing a present to an employe for using
greater haste than ordinary in issuing
passports.
Men of the Hungarian landsturm
born in 1868 and 1869 and also the
men belonging to the classes of 1865
and 1897, who hitherto have been em'
ployed in making war materials, now
are dismissed from this service and
ordered to join the army on April 5,
according to a Reutor dispatch.
Losses in the Russian army, killed,
wounded and missing, for the year 1915
were 2,542,639, according to Boris S
Schumacher, a Jewish newspaper cor
respondent, who exhibited printed lists
which he said were official Russian re
porta and which he said he secretly ob
tained while in Petrograd.
In a telegram to President Wilson
the Aero Club of America offered for
army use in Mexico two high-powered
aeroplanes, which, the club says, excel
in every way the present army flying
equipment. The telegram also said
the club had already listed 19 licensed
aviators as volunteers for service in
Mexico.
ENTENTE AlllES CONFERENCE
IN PARIS Of GREAT IMPORT
Paris The most important confer
ence of the entente allies sine tha out
break of tha war begun in Parla Mon
day under tha presidency of Premier
Brland. The premiers of Great Brl
tain, Italy, Belgium and Serbia par
tlcipatlng.
The British foreign secretary, Sir
Edward Grey; secretary of war, Field
Marshal Earl Kitchener, and comman
der of the continental forces, General
Sir Douglas H al it h: the French com
mander in chief. General Joffre. and
the Italian general, Cadorna, also have
seats at the council table Russia is
represented by the foreign minister,
M. Iswolsky, and General Giiensky,
aide-do-camp to the emperor; Japan
by the Japanese ambassador at Paris,
and Serbia by Prince Alexander.
Probably nothing will be disclosed
concerning the questions under discus
sion or the decision reached, but it Is
expected that the allied powers will
come to an agreement concerning com
mon military and political actions.
Property Destroyed and Traffic
Blocked by Middle West Floods
Chicago Blizzards, abnormally
warm weather, rain and snow much
colder weather, all crowded into a few
days, have combined to cause much
sickness and distress in Middle West
ern states. Floods also are now tak
Ing a toll in human life and destroying
property.
Northern Illinois cities report many
streets submerged and light and power
stations out of commission. Warnings
are issued in Chicago and all the
Northern Illinois territory of immi
nent peril of typhoid. Eastern Iowa
and Southern Michigan, Northern In
diana and Ohio are also facing typhoid
conditions.
Dispatches from Southwestern Wis
consin accentuate recent reports of
flood damage. Seven have been
drowned, with many districts entirely
inaccessible. Almost one-eighth of
the state is affected. Reports tell of
one drowned in Rock county, one in
Richland county and one in Grant
county. ' Two perished when a bridge
gave way. Others were drowned try
ing to get through flooded streams by
fording.
One In Grant county died trying to
lead his cattle from the stable to the
hills, when they became so freightened
that tbey trampled him, to death.
President Wilson Warns Public
Against Mexican War Rumors
VILLA ESCAPES TO HIS LAIR
Mexican Troops Give Aid to Fleeing Out
law and His Band Movement of
Soldiers Northward Alarms.
El Paso, Tex. The Carranza forces
have failed to hold their end of the net
that waa closing about Pancho Villa
and the bandit chief has escaped to his
mountain haunts about Guerrero, ac
cording to reliable information re
ceived here Tuesday.
The escape of the bandit is, how
ever, far from being the most serious
item of news which reached the border.
A feature of the gravest importance
waa Injected into the situation by sub
stantial confirmation of the numerous
reports received for the past week that
the Mexican government troops were
not only failing to co-operate with the
American troops, but, in certain in
stances at least, were actually with
drawing from the field of operations.
The Associated Press learned on un
questionable authority that the troops
of the de facto government which had
been atationed at Casas Grandes have
h large section of the country supposed
to be held by the troops of the first
chief. In the last few daya he haa
keen variously reported by General
Gavlra, the Carranza commander at
Juarez, at points along a line reaching
north and south from Galena to Na-
mlqulpa, a distance of about 75 miles.
By the same accounts he baa not been
moving steadily south, but roving
north and east. The mountainous.
canyon-split, roadless country in which
he is opel-ating adds many miles to the
country he has covered aa compared
with ita distance on the map.
The reason for the Carranza troops
moving to the border remaina unex
plained. It is impossible even to make
a fair estimate of the number of men
jnder General Gavira at Juarez. The
large staff at his headquarters and the
fact that new troops are arriving daily
indicates that his force is a large one.
FRANCISCO VILLA
Advices received from Dover by the
Press association say that a second
German seaplane was brought down
after the raid made by four German
aeroplanes over the Kent coast, last
Sunday. It ia said a British airman
who waa crossing the Channel in a
new aeroplane saw the raid in prog
ress, and joining in the chase of the
'Germans, succeeded in ' bringing down
one of their machines.
is visited by a
Astoria, Oregon,
160,000 fire. ,
Food supplies are said to be becom
ing short in the Torreon district of
Mexico and rioting ia feared.
A German aviator has dropped sev
eral smoke bombs near a French bat
tery, it is reported from the front.
This la the first time since the war be
gan that such bumbs have been used.
Not in themselves dangerous, the
bombs give forth an intense smoke
which persists for a long time and
serves as a guide for the hostile artillery.
Waahintgon, D. C President Wil
son has issued a warning that "sinis
ter and unscrupulous influences" are
spreading alarmist reports about the
Mexican situation with the object of
forcing intervention by the United
States "in the interests of certain
American owners it Mexican proper
ties."
In a formal statement the President
told the people of the United States to
be on their guard and not credit auch
stories. He urged those who dissem
inate news to test the source and au
thenticity of every report from the
border, and called attention again to
the government's announcement that
the sole object of the punitive expedi
tion now in Mexico waa to punish
Villa and hia followers.
The news services supplying news
papers had been asked, the President
said, to assist in keeping this view
constantly before the Mexican and
American people, to the end that the
expedition should take on the color of
war.
Steamer Hits log; Sinks.
Portland After striking a 80-foot
sunken log, which tore a huge hole in
her hull at the port bow, the steamer
Twin Cities, of The Dalles-Columbia
line, began to sink near the mouth of
North Portland harbor Saturday night
She was successfully beached after a
struggle. Quick work on the part of
the officers in charge, and the coolness
of the members of the crew, prevented
loss of life.
The 10 passengers aboard, and the
livestock which formed part of the
cargo, were landed in safety before
the vessel settled in the shallower
water near the bank. The steamer lay
partially submerged at the south bank,
near the mouth of the North Portland
harbor. A portion of the rail around
the upper deck was awash and the
water, which was rising rapidly, was
expected to flood the passenger cabins.
Fires Worst In Oregon.
Washington, D. C. More than 72
per cent of all the damage done by
forest tires in government forest re
serves during 1915 was in Oregon, ac
cording to a bulletin just issued by the
Forest service. During the past year
forest fires burned over 300,000 acres
of forest reserve lands, and destroyed
156,000,000 feet of timber, valued at
$190,000. The report says that 87 per
cent of the total loss was confined to
Oregon, Washington and Idaho.
if'? ' t "
been withdrawn and are now in and
about Juarez.
From the same source it was learned
that at least one detachment of Carran
za troops had refused to fight Villa and
had withdrawn on the bandit's ap
proach, leaving him free to pass into
his favorite mountain fastnesses in the
great continental divide south of Na
miquipa. This detachment withdrew
on receipt of a message that he was
warring, not on Mexicans, but the ene
mies of Mexicans.
The extraordinary rapidity with
which the American cavarly had
pushed into Mexico gave rise to high
hopes that the unexpected had hap
pened and the notorious bandit was
cornered. This seemed inevitable if
the Carranza soldiers did their part
and if the account of the strength of
their field forces was correct.
Villa, cut off from the north by the
forward sweep of the American col
umns, from the west by the Sierra
Madre barring the approaches to the
state of Sonora, was supposed to be
equally barred from east and south by
powerful Carranza forces. Those hopes
have been completely dashed by recent
developments.
More than this, it now seems certain
that Villa ia moving freely in at least
The most conservative estimate places
it at 3000 and calculations range from
that point upward to 8000.
Every precaution had been taken to
prevent the facts being known and
most of the men are kept out aide the
town among the hills. Reports from
Agua Prieta and Ojinaga tell of Mexi
can reinforcements reaching those
points also, but nothing ia known aa
to their numbers.
There is no question that there is
serious and growing uneasiness in El
Paso, which has been sharply accentu
ated by the problem which haa arisen
over the request of the United States
to General Carranza for the use of the
Mexican railroads to transport sup
plies. Torreon, Mex. Fighting took place
between Carranza forces and small
bands of Villistaa at five different
points in the neighborhood of Torreon
Monday, apparently with a view to
reaching the Monterey train, which
was derailed near Pomona two days
ago. The attacks were concerted
against Villisca, Matamorasoa, Coyote,
San Igarcio and Canon Chorritos,
where the government patrols success
fully held their ground with but a
small loss in killed and wounded.
BRITISH SEAPLANES (ALLIES DECLINE TO
BROUGHT DOWN DISARM VESSELS
German Aviators Defeat Three Secretary Lansing's Proposal to
of fleet of five Raiders. Dismantle Guns Refused.
LONDON ACTS LOSS Of DESTROYER ENTENTE POWERS POLITE BUT FIRM
Berlin Claims No Damage Done by Alleged Disregard of Germany for
Bombs Crews of Fliers Made
Prisoner Patrol Sunk.
Berlin, by wireless to Sayville, N.
Y. Not fewer than three British hy
droplanes, among them a fighting aero
plane, were brought down Sunday by
German guns on and about the island
of Sylt, during an air raid on North
ern Schleswig, according to a German
official communication. The crews
were taken prisoner.
Bombs dropped in the district of
the Hoyer water gate did no damage,
saya the statement, which follows:
f rom two ships, which were ac
companied by a cruiser squadron and
a flotilla of destroyers, five English
hydroplanes started for an attack
against the German aeronautic estab
lishments in Northern Schleswig.
Not fewer than three of them,
among which waa a fighting aeroplane.
were forced down by the defensive
service on and about the island of Sylt.
The occupants of the machines, who
were made prisoners, are four English
officers and one non-commissioned off!
cer.
"Bombs were thrown only in the
district of the Hoyer water gate. No
damage waa done."
London Three British aeroplanes
which took, part in a raid on German
airships in Schleswig-Holstein Sunday
are missing.
A dispatch says that - two German
armed trawlers acting aa patrols were
sunk by the British outside Sylt har
bor.
The admirality also reports that a
torpedo-boat may have been in collis
ion with another of ita own fleet in the
venture. No 'fears for the crew are
entertained.
Ibe following official statement was
issued:
"An attack by British seaplanes waa
delivered Sunday morning on German
airship sheds in Schleswig-Holstein
eastward of the island of Sylt. The
seaplanes were conveyed to their ren
dezvous close to the G reman coast by
an escorting force of light cruisers and
destroyers under Commodore Tyrwhitt
"Three of the seaplanes which took
part in the attack are missing. The
destroyer Medusa waa in collision with
the destroyer Lavrock and it is feared
that in the stormy weather which pre
vailed the Medusa may have been lost,
but no misgivings are felt aa to the
safety of the crew. Two German
armed patrol vessels were sunk by our
destroyers.
No detailed report haa yet been re
ceived, but from Danish press dis
patches it would appear that this
operation, which waa carried out with
in the enemy's waters, achieved ita
object." ; i
Treaties Basis of Rejection
Case of Belgium Is Cited.
Washington, D. C. All of the en
tente powers through their embaaaiea
here have handed to Secretary Lansing
formal responses rejecting the propos
al made' by the State department in
ita circular memorandum that they en
ter into a modus vivendi and disarm
all of their merchant ahipa with the
understanding that the United States
government would endeavor to secure
from the central powers a pledge not
to attack auch unarmed ahipa without
warning and without providing for
the safety of the passengers and crew.
Soon after the proposition waa
broached, through interviews in the
press and otherwise, responsible offi
cials of the entente powers indicated
their decided opposition to auch a plan.
It waa generally believed here that
the unanimous expression of disapprov
al inspired the German government
to promulgate the new order which
now ia in force for attacks without
warning by submarine commanders on
any armed belligerent merchantman.
While Secretary Lansing said he had
not had any opportunity aa yet to con-
aider the formal replies, it ia known
that, though based on different linea
of reasoning, each of the enetente
powera haa with polite expressions of
regret declined to accept the proposal.
The nature of their objections waa in
dicated in the unofficial statements of
various officials when the American
memorandum waa submitted, and it ia
understood that they have simply been
elaborated in the communications be
fore the State department.
It waa contended in the unofficial
discussions that Germany's contempt
for treaties and other formal stipula
tions aa evinced by her treatment of
Belgium had made it unsafe to rely on
any German pledge. The fundamental '
object urged, however, waa that there
should be no change in the principles
of international law during "the prog- '
ress of hostilities such aa would be in
volved in the acceptance of the modus
Vivendi at this time.
Three Americans lulled on Border.
Six Lose Lives ia Exclusive
, Country Oub Conflagration
San Antonio, Tex. Six persons lost
their lives early Sunday in the burning
of the fashionable San Antonio Coun
try club.
Five of the victims were miests at
the' club, which waa the scene of sev
eral week-end parties, bringing to
gether a large number of persons
prominent in social and business cir
cles to the Southwest.
The dead are: Mr. and Mrs. J. B.
Waltham, Judge J. E. Webb, Homer
Jones, San Antonio: Mrs. Maco Stew
art, Galveston; Helen CockrelL maid
at the club.
The fire had ita origin in a collection
of paint stored in the basement of the
three-story frame clubhouse. It spread
quickly to a stairway leading to the
first floor and rapidly communicated
to the other two floors above.
About 15 guests asleep in the build
ing had narrow escapes, many jumping
from the second story windows, so
quick was the spread of flames.
Villa General Is Killed.
Queretaro, Mexico General Pedro
Gozman and 22 others, all members of
Villa's band, were killed in battle in
the neighborhood of Laguna and Dina
mita Sunday. In this action between
government forces and bandits 10 pris
oners also were taken ana summarily
executed. This information came in a
message to the minister of war, Gen
eral Obregon, who waa Informed that
the campaign against the Villistaa waa
being waged with the utmost vigor.
Douglas, Ariz. Three Americans,
two women and one man, were killed
near Gibson's line ranch on the New
Mexico-Mexico boundary, eight milea
west of Columbus, N. M., between 4
and 5 o'clock Wednesday, presumably
by Mexicans, according to the story
brought here by a party of five Doug
las people, who said they arrived on
the scene shortly after the bodies had
been removed by soldiers.
A command of United States sol
diers stationed at the Gibson ranch
was said to have crossed the line in
pursuit of the slayers.
The automobihsta were on a pleas
ure trip. Near the ranch they were
stopped by a Twelfth Cavalry man,
who advised them to go to the ranch
houae immediately so that the detach
ment there could afford them protec
tion. They were guarded at the house
all night by seven troopers who had
arrived there from Hachita, N. M., in
response to the alarm given when the
three bodies had been found. The five
civilians passed a sleepless night, sit
ting in the car, while the soldiers
crouched around them in the pouring
rain on guard. Peals of thunder and
intermittent flashes of lightning in
creased the apprehension of the wom
The soldiers told them that the bod
ies of the two women and a man had
been found in an automobile near the
ranch, but they did not know what dis
position had been made of them. Af
ter daylight they were allowed to pro
ceed toward Hachita. They did not
atop there, they said, to make inquiry
about the affair.
Steamer Englishman Sunk.
London The steamer Englishman,
I of the Dominion line, haa been sunk,
according to Lloyd a. It ia said that
thus far 68 survivors have been ac
counted for. The last record of the
steamer Englishman shows that ahe.
aailed from Portland, Me., February
17, for St. Nazaire and Avonmouth.
The Englishman waa a vessel of 6257
tons and was owned by the Mississippi
& Dominion Steamship company, of
Liverpool She waa built in 1892.
