d r?
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
0E1MI i.
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
-J "II J 111 f to I VJ f .ilKWI'll .
inr ;J
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
ILOlIl'lNS
MAY SOON BE BROKEN
Prompt and Complete Settlement of Whole Sutmarine Issue
. Alone Can Prevent Rupture-Germany Was Apparently
f Cautious for Awhile But Has Thrown. Discretion to the
! Winds and Begins New Campaign of TerrorBreak
Under Circumstances Seems Inevitable
By Robert J. Bender,
(United Press Staff Correspondent.) .
Washington, March 00. Any expectation that the ad
ministration might recede from its determination to sever
diplomatic relations with Germany if it is proved a Teuton
submarine torpedoed the channel steamer Sussex was re
moved, it was intimated tocfay, by the under sea-boat at
tack on the British steamer Eagle Point, which was sunk
without warning, endangering American life.
Prompt and complete settlement of the whole sub
marine issue is the only development that can prevent the
threatened rupture, officials stated. Some believe that
such a settlement would be more probable after a break
in relations than before.
The Eagle Point case simply adds proof to the mass of
evidence indicating that Germany is engaee'd in a gen
eral submarine campaign in
in the opinion of officials here.
end quickly if America .is to continue to deal with the '
kaiser through diplomatic channels. Disavowal of a
single instance will not suffice, nor will reparation and
nunishment of the euiltv narties in one isolated case he
sufficient satisfaction.
Immediate cessation of such a cam
paign, settlement of all phase of th
submarine ifsiie, including abrogation
of the "armed merchantman decree,"
may prevent an open break. Many be
lieve tiiat Oormauy will not make such
concessions' liurriedly.
A double investigation of recent sub
marine hctivities is being conducted
liy I'nited States representatives in
Oroat Britain and fiance and by Am
lins'jador (leriird in Berlin. Affidavits
throwing light on all recent eases are
expected soon.
The most important reports are an
ticipated from naval and military at
taches who are examining the Sussex,
fierard has not yet replied to Secre
tary Lansing's latest request for de
tails. Arrival of1 a fragment of bronze
found in the Sussex, said to be -from a
tiormnn torpedo, is awaited at the state
department. It is being shipped here
f'r examination.
New Campaign of Terror.
London. Mar. :!0. Teuton 1' boats
have embarked on anew campaign of
high sea terrorism despite Berlin as
surances to the contrary, in the view o
officials here tndny.-
It was pointed out that during the
first fortnight of this month, the sub
marines acted with caution, supposedly
on nrrletrs from Berlin. But during the I
r...-. i, m, mjiiu mi- siiiKings nave aver
aged several daily. Admiralty officials
claimed they had proof that the sub
marines worked without discrimination
and hurled torpedoes without warr-i'V
frequently nt night
Affidavits with regards ifo the siui--ing
of the Eagle Toint, KnglMiman a,. .
Manchester Engineer, and the ;tvl;
in the Sussex, h.ive beoi fjr-.v i '.! d
1j V. !s!:ington. All these vessels r,,r
tic t , mericans.
The British embassy at Paris for
warded a statement or the Sussex com
mander, in which he claimed that he
wi.v the torpedo oomine and tried to
dodge. He blames most of the fatalities!
' the panic which followed the ex-
ABE MARTIN
Who remembers when ther wuz a
l'.'iontt'd house in ever' neighborhood .'
It seems like not hi n ' ever g.ts t' go
i:i' 2o. toll ther's a few resignations.
9
defiance of international law,
If so, the campaign must
plosion. Many Sussex victims were not
identified owing to the fact that their
bodies wore mangled by the blast.
German Ambassador Von Bornstorff
called the sttte department at noon. It
is believed his purpose' was to discuss
the submarine situation and proffer '
whatever information he might have. '
!......... cu 1 i.:im. in.
"""J,u"' ,l"c". "'""J' see and observe everything. He want
Counsellor Polk of the state depart- ed to model the Mexican republic af
ment. It was declared the conference tor this one. He had such big nopes
concerned commercial questions and ami ambitions that it must have been
flint li.i : . .
i uvi l i iv nui'ui nit lapup y as li u l U13
the
cussed.
Trying to Discover Where
Villa Is Getting Funds
W.ishington, Mar. 30. Early devel
opments in the investigation to ascer
tain where Francisco Villa is getting
his funds were forecasted today by the
department of justice. Hurst Voii Der
Uoltz, formerly with Villa, has been
closely questioned with regard to his
source of revenue.
It was learned the evidence already
at hand proved ilia was supported by
hot-1 American and foreign interests. !
Enough has been learned already to
cause the arrest of several suspects,
out ucuon is oeing delayed as secret
MM-wce ugoiirs nope to catch tlio higher the state party while Onley is a con-uls-
' servative.
When a Hospital Looks Like
Heaven to Wounded Soldier
.. . B,y William O. Shepherd.
ILiiue.i tress Matt I orrespondent.)
falonioa, Greece, Feb. 120 (lly mail.)
... ,r ucim-ii io a sick or something pitilul and gruesome alwut
wounded soldier. ja huddled form oh a stretcher and you
If a man has any strength left when don't want to be that form yourself, if
ue tumbles in between white sheets forlvou can heln it
tii. r;..af i, i " m. l.
" '"" "r a 'K or re-
..... w,,, i y.us uii m v unci,
for three weeks in the Fourth Canidian
nospi ai at naionua anci i got to watch-
ing tne newcomers, waiting for this
sigh ot contentment and for the smilel
rvui. u cn.sseu een tne pain-straine.l
faces as the soldiers or officers relazed
.lulu . h-hiuu vi nicir sin lenngs anil
surrendered themselves to the miuistra-
tions and care of the nurses.
o wounded cime in while I wai1
there. There was no terrible rush, such
i aumriiiiin uiipprn miring a uauie
wiieu torn and bleeding men pour in
like a flood, night and day, and test
iur urrn- uun sircngiu or me tiociors,
surgeons and nurses almost to the! " tiff with vour clothes, " she would
breaking point. 1 suppose such men'ssy. "Get into these and go right to
ign ioo, ii tnev nave tne strength,
nen tiiey turn that tliey have ci -
changed their bed ot blooded mud on!
the bittletield for the white sheets and!
soft cols and the gentle care of the
nurses in some tent hospital.
.Most oi toe men who came in while I
Was mere were sick oi grippe or pp.cti -
iiiionin.' Some of them were Engli-h
J men who in spite of some chronic ail -
intent of long stinding. hail volunteered
and tried to star.d the roujhnes of
ti' lit life, only to have their old ail -
cuts exaggerated. Most of them tried
io ugnr on me nines amrnadu u sur -
rendered uniii eituer an inten-e ti
fever
or piiu had overcome them.
"Get to the hospital with your boots
SALEM,
MASTERPIECES STOLEN
Kome, Mar. 30. Ton paint
ings, their aggregate value ex
ceeding 4:l,()UO,U(M, have been
stolon from the Monastery San
Pietro He Casinonzi at Perugia,
it was divulged today.
Among the missing master
pieces are two Kaphaels includ
ing the Infant Jesus and Slint
John, four Peruginos, liassnno's
Coronation two Gueroiuos and
Mantegua's Christ. Churches
throughout Italy are praying
for their rcoverv.
I
Says He Aimed to Free His
Country and Pattern Gov
ernment After Ours
fan Katael,
Oil., Mar. to. '
I'ran-
oisco Villa is
not the bad man
you
think."
This is the belief of Ciabriel Diaz,
iged 19, who is being educated at a mil
itary academy here by the hunted ban
dit chief. He whs sent to the school
by Villa, and his tuition paid in ad
vance, when "I'iineho" was in the
height of his power.
"Villa," said Dias, "is big hearted
w:
It is only his enemies
him mui win follow him anvwhere.
J St J'
lands in chihuahua' ami said he wanted
w7eI, X0Z!TX V S
army. At that time vnin thought he
would be president of Mexico. He in
sisted on paying ill expenses.
"He was always very friendly to the
boys. He used to tell us about his
fights and T would hear him tolling the
older pfrople about what great things i
ne hoped to do tor Mexico. He thought
that by surrounding himself by a staff
of men educated in America he would
be able to govern his country wisely
and make it hippy and prosperous.
" Villa always thought a lot of the
I'nited States and when he sent me
anil the other boys here he told us to
ii'iimv n in ii ii n iubi U1UIV3 ttllU IIUUI
ica helped his enemies,
"I cannot imagine Villa the cruel
Villa they say ho is."
This is the last year which Gabriel
Dias, two brothers, and two other Mex-
v
an youths will spent at the academy.
'ilia's funds for their education will
I be exhausted when the present term
I ends, ind tiiey will be obliged to return
iu iiexicu. ,
DEMOCRATIC THIRD TERMER
rhoenix, Ariz., Mar. 30 Governor
George W. P. Hunt today announced his
candidacy for roiioin i nation on the dem
ocratic I'lfltot in tlio nntiiinn miluimn.
torial race. If ho is elected it would
be his third term in off ice. Hunt will
be opposed at the primaries bv George
Onley, wealthy Phoenix cattleman.
Hunt represents the radical wing of
, on,' ' seemed to be their motto. Though
I thev came in ambulances thev rarely
come on stretchers. There's" always
me next step with a newcomer was
i to sit on tne edge ot the cot whica hail
been issiunn.l hi.,, if l, 0 u ill
he mjKht at least stretch out on the
blanket.
"Don't surrender," seemed to be bis
j i.tea. "Get to the hospital with your
' boots on and keep them on as long as
1 vou can.
' But, shortly, a white clad and verv
businesslike young nurse would take
matters in hand. mid. n it were throw
j up the sponge for our- conquered hero.
.ue would come in with pai imas of soft
canton flannel, nm.le bv the kind hands
of Canadian women, ami a pair of bed
socks, of the same material.
bed."
1 " But, "the officer would begin to
protest.
"Into bed," the nurse would order,
firmly. And the man whose job it wa.s
to order iround a thousand men, even
to the point of death, if need be, would
; weakly submit.
Within ten minutes a pajamaed figure
! would crawl in between the warm
blankets and then would come the
I sigh. Best nnd comfort and care at
1 lt, after the mud and wet, cold ind
dirt, beds of straw an. I sleeping bags.
1 A jsritish army hospital inn t sup
posed to bo a place for sentiment, any
(Continued on Page Three)
OREGON, THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 1916
AHTILLEHi due
RACED ALL NIGHT
EAST OF VERDUN
Germans Hurled Series of
Desperate Attacks South
of the Somme
BREAK FRENCH LINES
BUT ARE FORCED BACK
French Guns Command High
ways So To Go On Them
Is Suicide
Paris. Mar. SO. German forces have
boon checked in their drive on Malan
eourt, it was stated today. Several at
tempts to reconquer positions captured
by French troops in the Avocourt tc
gion, south of MaiancourV. we're re
pulsed with heavy losses to the at
tackers. Germans, after a deafening bombard
ment, hurled a series of desperate at
tacks south of the Somme. 80 miles
from Paris. Their headlong charge car
ried them through French lines west of
Vermandoviller, 10 miles southwest of
I'eronne. Before they could establish
themselves, however, French bugle?
called up troops of me republic for r
counter attack which forced the Teu
tons to floe.
Artillery duels shook the ground las
night north and east of Verdun.
Genernl Duhnil, former commander of
all the French troops in eastern France,
including Verdun, returned to the cap
ital to become milithv.r governor of the
Paris district, succeeding General Mnn
oury, who is ill.
Make Supreme Effort.
London, Mar. 30r Hurling shells unon
French fortified works from three sides,
the .Germans today sent thousands r
men charging upon Malaneourt in a su
preme effort to capture it and seize flu
two highways which intersect there.
French positions are admitted to hi
extreme peril.
From Wooded heights to- the north
and northeast and from newly taken
footholds close to Malaneourt, the Ger
mans are sending shell after shell into
the French defenses. Replying to this
bombardment, French' guns on the ridge
of Dead Man's hill and on Hill 304
are sweeping the Malaneourt highways,
tearing into the dust with heavy ex
plosives so that an attempt to advance
over them would be practical suicide.
The French victory in Avocourt
woods is eoinsidered to have almost off
set yesterday's German gains.
Germans Claim Wo Gains.
Berlin, Mar. 80. Although the Ger
mans are centering every effort on a
smash against Malaneourt, the war of
fice today failed to claim important
gains there. Its statement asserted that
the French had been uniformly repulsed
in their attacks on Avocourt wood. Ter
rific artillery duels raged during the
night along the river Meuse.
Say:
m t a . . . v
s loo Much Attention is
Paid to Rank, Not Enough
to Ability
San Francisco, Mar. .10. "American
aviators have failed in Alexico because
they have made of aviation 1 social
event, not a business."
This is the, assertion today of Hoy
Francis, veteran flyer, formerly civilian
instructor at the nan Diego aeroplane
school. He said the aviation section of
tiie army would hive to be organized
upon a basis of learning, not favoritism
or rank, before it could succeed.
"Armv aviators have not been taught
how to fly," declared Francis. "They
circle around at San Diego under most
favorable conditions, but when they
have merhinical difficulties they are
helpless. Their instructors are in com
petent, the chiefs do not know the busi
ness, the system is all wrong.
"A civilian learns by experience, a
soldier by theory. When they get in
the air the civilian succeeds and the
soldier is wrecked. Too much atten
tion is paid a man's rank anil too little
to his ability. Aviation in the army
his become a social diversion. Thev
rule. Lincoln Heahey off the aviation
field in Washington several years ago
because he was showing the army men
tip."
BOBBED SPRING VALLEY
S.-m Francisco, Mir. 30. Pandits
stole $1,000 from the Hpring Valley
Lumber company office before dawn
today after dvnamiting the safe ami
overpowering Watchman Peter Noonan.
SHE SPANKED 'EM BOTH
' Redlands, Cal., Mar. 30. A
reconciliation was effected in
the Villn-C'edano households
here today.
Yesterday Miss B. Villa, aged
17, eloped with V. Cadeno, aged
22, and after their marriage, the
pair returned to the bride's
home here. The bride's mother
was waiting, but not with bless
ings. She turned the young wife
over her knees nnd administered
a spanking. When the groom
interferred he was treated sim
ilarly. ICeighbors called the
police.
Mrs. Horton Begs Permission
to Sing for Him Her
Sweet "Rose Sons"
New York, Mar. ,",0. With his moth
er's faith in him shaken so she says
"iie couldn't have been himself when
ho did it," the only steadfast support
er Dr. Waite, confessed poisoner, hid
today was Mrs. Margaret Horton. At
first his mother refused to believe he
had killed Mr. and Mrs. .lohn K. I'wk.j
parents ot his wife. .Now, however,
even she is convinced.
Though troubled severely by gruel
ling examinations and though her
friends arc deserting her, Mrs. Horton 'a
keenest distress is over White's misfor
tune. She wants to see him, but steel
bars keep her away.
Mrs. Horton begged detectives to let
dio"''whe they .1" theVnia i
hotel.
"I'm oh, so sorry for-you! " she said
in a note to Waite. "I know you are
absolutely innocent, lte brave and
strong. 1 will come and see you to
morrow. ' ,
To friends, who askfid her if she did
not believe Waite 's confession, she re
plied sharply:
"I know he is" not a 'murderer ind I
shall bejieve in him forever and every"
With flashing eyes she said to a de
tective: If he confessed, which T doubt, he
must have been drugged so he did not wcre working, and the nbsenco of news
know what he was saying. They have nbout C'arranzistu movements in tlio
offered me $-."0 a week for singing on field was considered puzzling. Amer
the stage. I will spend every cent of lip., forces were last reported chasing
it for him.'
Tiie Peck family issued a statement,
repudiating Waite ind refusing to have
anything to do with his defense.
AVIATOR IS PEEVED
, 7T a ,.
San D.ego, Cal., Mar. 30 -"Uo "
Cowan in charge of Hip Vnitert States
aviation school here today when I'nited
Press dispatches were re id to him in
which Francis- charged that I'nited
States aviators have made aviation a
social event, not a business. ,
"J never heard of him," continued
Cowan. "If he ever did any flying it
must have been in somebody's bick
yard."
Captain Cowan said he did not care
to reply to charges made by an "un
known." Do not beat an egg when onary. It
is sure to have a bad effect on the eh tr
actor of the egg.
Colonel Dodd's Cavalry
Close on Villa's Heels
By E. T. Conkle.
(I'nited I'ress staff correspondent.)
Kl Paso, Texas, Mar. 30. With a
force of picked American soldiers al
ready 300 miles inside Mexico and al
together fully 10,000 Cnited States
troops chasing Francisco Villa the army
supply transportation problem wus side
topic hero today.
The Mexico JSortnwestern rauronu
announced
that it was impossible to
ship munitions south aefore Saturday,
owing to lack of equipment.
Army men exprcsscil dissatisfaction
th General Carranza's "concession"
with
his permission for Americans to us
Mexican railroails. it only amounis
to this: The lines have been thrown
open for use by the United States army
on the same terms as they are used by
individuals. The army has been at
tempting to ship goods under those con
ditions for tevcral da, and has hail
the news suppressed for'fear it might
cause controversy. Three car lomTs of
sent onthwnrd fromicnrs. The remainder of the roads roll
provisions were
Juarcz, last night consigned to civil
ians. They will ultimately be deliv
ered to Hrigadier (leneral Pershing.
V!Ua Safe In Hills.
Villa has been located, in unofficial
advices Kanta Tomtis, 00 mil southeast
of Madera and close to the Mexico j voices from Consul (mrcia for nil ex
Xorthwestern road, but pursuit by rail ! portal ions sent from Kl Paso to .IiiareK.
is imnoKsible ns 40 bridges bIoiii; the Corcia said he had no other instruc-
route have been destroyed since Jan
unry.
As this latest report of the band""
whereabouts probably was delayed n
duv or two in reach ine the border,
Villa is presumed to have e-sonped into!
the heart of the l.uerrera mountain!,
PRICE TWO
VILLA ESCAPES, IS SAFE
N GUERRERO MOUNTA NS
Split His Band In Three Parts and Fled to His Old Haunts h
the Hills With 20 Picked Men-Right to Use Railroads
Has Some Annoying Strings To It Columhus to Remain
the Supply Base-Railroads In Such Condition As To
Be Almost Useless
El Paso, Texas, March 29. Several carloads of sup
plies for Brigadier General John J. Pershing's men were
ready for shipment today to Casas Grandes over the
Mexico Northwestern railroad. Officers, however, ad
mitted disappointment at the outcome of negotiations for
permission to get use of the railway. The uncertainty of
th roads operation and the fact that the Mexico "North
western is known to be in poor condition may force the
continuance of motor supply train travel over the Chihua
hua desert.
Hundreds of tons of food and forage are daily needed
to maintain the American troops in Mexico. This does
not include gasolifte and food for patrols guarding the
communication lines. Solution of the transportation
problem temporarily overshadowed the pursuit of Fran
cisco Villa ijself, due to the absence of official news from
the front.
Major William Elliott of the quartermaster's corps dis
patched 10 cars of army supplies to Columbus last night
and sent 27 motor trucks this
send 27 more trucks this afternoon. lEliott will continue
to treat Columbus as the principal base pending receipt
of further orders. He has not received instructions to
make shipments via Juarez. Elliott said he already had
160 motor trucks at Columbus and Casas Grandes and
that they were adequate.
A message from flenernl Funston to
General Bell was believed to be with re
gard to use of Mexican railroads.
Wires runnins southward from Juarez
Villa through the Santa Maria, valley
trying to head ott his escape via Ala
dera. Mexican troops have been sent to
stamp out the band of 1,500 Villista'
under (.'nnuto Reyes which is operating
around Torreon. Three Carran.isti
,!Ilcrnls are ia the field against Keyes.
Villa Safe In Hills.
Han Antonio, Texas. Mar. .'10. Fran
cisco Villa has reached the Guerrero
mountnins nnd Colonel (leorge Dndd'i
ndvancc guard has crossed the rnilroe
curving southwest from Chihuahua City
according to unofficial reports today.
Villa is said to have split his cm
maud into three divisions after leaving
i;i Valle, and to have, taken personal
command of about 20 picked fighters.
Some dissatisfaction was exprr:
by army men over the limitations in
the official permission given by Car
ranza to use Mexican railroads for mili
tary purposes. Major Cicnenil Funston,
where, according to those familiar with
the country, it will be possible for hii
to hide indefinitely.
If report are true that the Amer
ican forces are .'100 miles south of the
border, they nre right on Villa's heels.
Colonel (leorge Dodil's cavalry was re
ported to have passed through Madera
last Tuesday.
Rely on Trucks ror Supplies.
Those who must keep the soldiers sup
plied are placing their principal reli
ance on increasing othe line of motor
trucks carrying munitions nnd food
through the desert wastes of northern
T.ieo. Two hundred trucks will lie
making the run regularly by tomorrow.
Armv men at Columbus stated taht the
trucks were adequate for the purpose.
It is evident, however, that reul rnil
rond service would be a big aid to the
expedition.
The Mexico Northwestern 's equip
ment between .Tunrez and Casas (iran-
des roinsists of one train composed of
. .. ... ..:..!.
mixeu passenger concnes ami ih-iim
ing stock on that division is being held
by Carrnnzistas under military or
ders. Condition's under which the railroad
concession was granted make it neces-
I sary for the Americans to procure in
, tions with regard tu letting Americans
I use the line.
) fleneral Hell said today that if the
i Mexican lines came into general use and
their equipment was found insnfticicn
he would attempt to get permission for
mo use oi .uicricau oqmpmeiiv,
CENTS KSDS
morning, ne expected io
however, believes thnt this concession
will he of great nssbtunce to the x
pedition. ' Columbus to Be Supply Basei
Columbus, N. M., Mar. .'10. Colusjhnt
will continue to be the main American
supply base in spite of Mexican rail
way privileges which have been grant
ed, in the belief of military men today.
They pointed out that the roadbeds nf
Mexican lines needed many rnpairs be
fore they would be of much use. It is
believed Carranzn will permit Amer
icans to repair them.
Heavy supplies continue to he iv'--ed
here. It is computed that 10.000
men ore now searching for Francisco
Villa.
Lieutenant florrell today made h! i
first flight since the harrowing exper
ience when he was forced to descend
in the desert and almost starve befor
finding aid. He flow over trie p""!
lines and along the lines of communica
tion, (iorrell carried extra rations and
a gallon of wnter.
Qtilot Along the Border.
Douglas, Ariz., Mar. SO "Conditions
are timet all along the border,"
clured Senator A. B. Fnll, at a confer
ence of citizens today.
"The situation with Mexico rs im
proving. I might even go so far as to,
suggest that we lend the troops station
ed here to New Mexico," Fall con
tinued, "referring to the recent state
ment of Mayor Kills, of Douglas, that
this place was in no danger 'from tha
Mexican side."
According to nn American interne
who returned from the Mexican gar
rison hospital at Ciibiillonn there wer
only 700 de facto troops stationed there.
Ho described recent statements that 10.
000 Mexicans were mobilized there. lt
declared that there is nn nnti Americen
feeling there, and band concerts went
being held daily.
Some Roving Bands.
Ran Diego, Cal.. Mnr. 30. Tersons
living along the Mexican border near
here have asked Sheriff Conklin f
protection from roving bands of armed
Mexicans, who it is feared, will take ad
vantage of the unrest in the southern
republic to raid settlements. Don Hubr,
nimtmastcr nt Boulevard, and A. Os- .
born, customs agent nt Campo, have ap
pealed to the sheriff. I he mntier win
bo taken up with Colonel Pendleton.
commanding the Fourth regiment ot
marines, stationed here.
TUP WPATHFR
1Mb iiuaiiuut
ncvJ
-IKE :.u.
liregon: ii""
fair, light frost
southwest, heavy
irost cast portion,
easterly winds;
Friduv fUir.
.
