AWU
;W r. - 1.7"" -
WWW Wl0:
VOL LVKI.-KO. 133
price two 'cErrrc
POPULATION ' ;;q19
NORWICH, CONN FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1916
12 PAGES 96 COLUMNS
The Bulletin's Circulation in fonv;''oib!8 That of Any 0 in Proportion to the City's Population.
m
IFM F
iiliiAki
tmES
Cabled Paragraphs
Hampshire Sank in Deep Water. '
Aberdeen, Scotland, - June 9. The
cruiser Hampshire Bank in deep wa
ter two miles from land between Mar
wick Head "and the Brough of Bir
say, on the west coast of the Orkney
Islands. .-. .. ;" ... ,
w
Suffrage Plank Progressives Are
in Rep. Platform Firm for Roosevelt
' Condensed Telegrams :
Li Yuan-Hung took the oath of of
fice as President of China.
RUSSIANS FREWS
'Republican Convention Accepted Invitation Extended
by the Progressive Convention
Condolence for Loss of Kitchener. '
Paris, June 8, 8.36 p. m. -The senate
and the chamber of deputies today
unanimously voted -condolences with
ttie British government and the parlia
ment andpeople of Great Britain on
the loss. of Field Marshal Earl Kitch
ener. ,. , ,. sr...
REPUBLICAN APPOINTEES ARE ANTI-ROOSEVELT
Republican Nomination Made an Uncertainty Until the Con
ferees Report A Half Minute Demonstration Followed
When Roosevelt's Name Was Mentioned Senator
Lodge Cast Suffragists From Jubilation to Gloom When
He Said He Favored the Extension of Suffrage to Wo
men and Then Qualified It by Declaring He Recognized
the Right of Each State to Settle the Question for Itself
Nominating Speeches Will Start This Morning Plat
form Calls for Enforcement of American Principles at
Home and Abroad.
Chicago, June 8. The republican
convention today accepted the invita
tion of the progressive convention for
si conference for harmony. A proposal
to that end, adopted first in ttie pro
gressive convention, was received in
the republican convention and adopted
with a few scattering "noes" and virtu
ally no demonstration.
Republican Conference Committee.
Senator Eeed Smoot of Utah, Sena
tor William E. Borah of Idaho, former
Senator W. Murray Crane of Massa
chusetts, (Nicholas Murray Butler of the
New York delegation and former Rep
resentative A. R. Johnson of Ohio were
appointed as the republican conference
committee. They at once began ar
rangements for meeting the progres
sives. Antl-Roosevelt Men.
The , complexion of the committee
was generally regarded as one that
would not accept Colonel Roosevelt for
the republican nomination, but on the
other liandV would not insist - on an
agreement r on Justice Hughe's. The
whole effect-of the development was
to throw- the republican nomination
into uncertainty until the conferees
report. ,-
Developments of the Day.
The other principal developments in
the republican convention were the
adontion of the platform as reported
by the resolutions committee headed
by Senator Lodge; a half minute dem
onstration for Colonel Roosevelt when
)ls name was mentioned for the first
time in convention; the perfection
of the permanent organization, and
adjournment until 11 a. m. tomorrow.
Demonstration for Roosevelt.
Senator Lodge mentioned Colonel
Roosevelt's name in reading the Phil
ippine plank,- which declares for the
policy inaugurated by McKinley and
continued by Roosevelt. The demon
stration that followed was principally
In the galleries, although it was Joined
by some delegates on the floor. Sena,
tor Lodge, well identified as a per
sonal friend of the colonel, smiled and
waited, and it subsided in less than a
rninute by the watch.
The eutstanding incident of ehe
day's Session came with Senator
Lodge's announcement of the woman
suffrage plank.
Woman Suffrage Plank.
"Ttie republican party, reaffirming its
faith In government of the people, by
the people and for the people, as a
measure for Justice to one-half the
adult people of this country, favors the
extension of suffrage to women," read
the senator, and there he paused, while
the suffragists began their demonstration.
Bu4." continued Senator Lodge,
when the noise subsided, "it recognizes
the right of each state to settle this
question for itself."
TlTere were roars of laughter at this
auatlfyinjc phrase to what the suffra
gists had celebrated as a clear-cut
victory, and tflie convention hall rang
with the demonstration of those who
approved the qualification.
' Minority Reports.
. The temper of the convention mana
gers to hear the minorities might well
be illustrated by their conduct toward
Edwin J. Gross of Milwaukee, who as
a member of the resolutions committee
presented his own minority report, con
taining nractlcallv all tlie much-dis
cussed proposals characterized as ultra
radical, ranging governmental manu
facture of munitions to the initiative.
the referendum and the recall.
1 Impatient delegates tried to howl
him, but ho waa repeatedly protected
by Chairman Harding, who insisted
that he should be heard. A chorus of
"noes" disposed of his report
With that the convention referred
contests in the national committee to
the national committee tiself, ratified
ttio uncontested . nomination and ad
journed until tomorrow.
Nominating Speeches Today.
Chairman Harding of the republican
convention said tonight that unless he
Is overruled he will ask the conven
tion to go straight' through with the
nominating speeches as soon as the
convention convenes tomorrow morn
Inr and that all seconding speeches be
made after the nominating addresses
bave been concluded, and then only by
arrangement witfa the chair. About
the only thing that can interfere with
this programme, lie said, would be a
re port (from the peace conference oom-
mittee. According to present plans,
there will be "no time limit placed on
, nominating speeches. , (Seconding
speeches wui oe limited to five mln
utes each.
PLATFORM 8UBMITTED BY
RESOLUTIONS COMMITTEE.
Comprehensive Declaration of What
the Republican Party Stands For
Strong for American Principles at
! Hoot and Abroad. .
tng Is the report of the resolutions
committee:
"In 1861 the republican party stood
for the union. As it stod for the union
of states, it now stands for a united
people, true to American ideals, loyal
to American traditions, knowing no
allegiance except to the constitution.
to the government and to the flag of
the United States. We believe in
American policies at home and abroad.
Protection of American Rights.
"We declare that we believe in and
win enforce the protection of every
American citizen in all the rights se
cured to him by the constitution, treaties
and the law of nations, at home and
abroad, by land and by sea.- These
rights, which in violation of the specific
promise of their party made at sal
timore in 1912, the democratic president
and the democratic congress have
failed to defend, we will unflinchingly
maintain.
Foreign Relations.
"We desire peace, the peace of jus
tice and . right, and believe in mam
tabling a straigtit and honest neutral!
ty . between' -the belligerents in - the
great war in Europe. We must per
form all bir rduties and insist upon
all our rights as neutrals without fear
and without favor. We believe that
peace and neutrality as well as the
dignity and influence of the United
Slates cannot be preserved by shifty
expedients, by phrase-making, by per
formances in language, or by attitudes
ever changing in an effort to secure
groups of voters. The present admin
istration has destroyed our influence
abroad and humiliated us in our own
eyes. The republican party believes
that a firm, consistent and courageous
foreign policy, always maintained by
republican presidents in accordance
with American traditions, is the best.
as it is the only true way, to preserve
our peace and restore us to our right
ful place among Hie nations. We be
lieve in the pacific settlement of In
ternational disputes and favor the es
tablishment of a world court for that
purpose.
Mexico.
COUNT AND COUNTESS
PLUNKETT RELEASED.
Have Been Ordered to Leave London
by Next Saturday.
London, June 8. Count and Countess
Plunkett, who were arrested early last
month, shortly after the suppression of
the Irish rebellion, were released from
custody last Wednesday and ordered
to leave .Dublin by next Saturday, ac
cording to a Central News despatch
from Dublin today.
The count and countess attended re
quiem mass in the Carmelite church to
day for the repose of the soul of tfceir
son Joseph, who was put to death for
participation in the rebellion. - The
church was thronged. In the congre
gation was the widow of Joseph Plun
kett, who was married to him in prison
on the morning or the day he was ex
ecuted.
Three sons of Count "Plunkett were
implicated in the Irish revolt. One of
them, Joseph Plunkett, was executed,
and death sentences on the two others,
George and John Plunkett, were com
muted to sentences of ten years' penal
servitude.'
MEASURE OFFERED BY NEWLY LEADERS FIND IT DIFFICULT TO
FORMED WOMAN'S PARTY I CONTROL DELEGATES
FINAL VOTE 35 TO 1 1 TODAY WILL BE BIG DAY
The British army has gone into
mourning xor iari .Kitchener.
Brig. Gen. Bernard G. Farrar. U. 8.
A., died at his home in St. Louis.
Japan's exports to Russia since Jan.
nave reached a total of H8,0(K,000.
"Michigan's state croo report places
uie condition or. winter what at U.
TEUTONS WIS
''1 A P '
Plank Containing the So-Called Susan Only on Promises That No Obstacles
Yaqui Indiana are reported to be
! actively raiding in Southern Sonora.
B. Anthony Amendment Was Reject
ed Merely Classes It as a State Is-
Would be Placed in the Way of
Nominating Roosevelt Was Ad
journment Obtained.
Chicago, June 8. Woman suffrage
ran a curious course today m tne
republican convention. First denied
Joe Virzini of Torrinoton waa found
guuty oi assault with intent to kill.
Director of the Savaaa Arms Co.
declared a dividend of 1 1-2 per cent.
Cavalrv ia th mo mnulir hMnxk
of training with the recruits at Platts-
In Numerous Places the Muscovites Have Crossed thi
Ikwa and Styr Rivers
ATTAm mm psrtii a nnnv oni nirriP I! f !!"!
rtiiaurv uuML hiuuanoni ouluilho in uauuia
i-
Auditorium- Hall. Chicago. June 8. I burg.
fnv... i . .i , ,i I
met in two tumultuous sessions today! Germany's new war credit of 12.-ITheV Have CaDUTed HeaVUV Fortified Positions AlOn2T the
a place in the platform, then accepted I and adjourned tonight until 10 a. m l 000,000 marks was adopted by the I
as a party plank without reservation,
it finally found its resting place in
the republican resolutions as a ri
vored proposition in principle but
with the proviso that each state
should settle the woman suffrage
question for itself.
tomorrow. The principal business of I Reichstag.
the day was the approval of a plan to
confer on peace plans with the repub-1 Premier Asauith has temoorarilv
lican convention. . taken personal charge of the British
Deleaatea Controlled hv Persuasion. I War Office.
m l v. xi .3 , . . il
imuusuuui lire, uajr me leaoera nepi T. c,mriu I. J .
The-plank offered . by the newly JSSJSJZ ntassta was suTk lfZfo2S?3&
RUSSIAN SUCCESSES
AGAINST AUSTRIANS
Far More Important Than Appears
From Announcements.
London, June 9, 2.30 a. m. Special
despatches from Petrograd express
the belief that the Russian successes
against the Austrians are far more
important than appears from the of
ficial announcements.
The Daily Telegraph's correspond
ent ventures the assertion On the au
thority of a prominent Russian expert
thi all nve Austrian armies are on
the eve -of a general retreat and trat
Lemberg Is m great strategic dan
ger."
On the same authority it Is assert
ed that a strategic breach 100 miles
wide has been blown In the Austrian
front, involving the armies of General
Count von Bothmer and General von
Boehm-Ermolli,and part of Archduke
losepn v erdinanu s. .
JUSTICE HUGHES WORKS .
J j ON COURT OPINIONS
Tcjked for Half arK Hour With George
' - W. Wickersham. .
formed woman's party, which would
have pledged the republican party to
the so-called Susan B. Anthony
amendment, was rejected. The plank
adopted conforms more nearly to the
requests made an resolutions Dy tne
National American' Woman's Suffrage
Association. As incorporated in the
platform, the plank reads:
Suffrage Plank Adopted
The republican party, reaffirming
its faith in government of the people,
by the people and for the people, as
a measure of justice to one-haif of
persuasion and by constant reiteration 1 1 "JCTTf "V
nf Chairman Pnhin'c nivmio thit Vial'1""""'1 oiuif.
majority would decide any questions
that arose than by any actual hold
they had on the delegations. The
same determination to nominate Theo
dore Roosevelt was evident from tlie
A report from The Hague says that!
inoiiana is surrering irom a wheat and
nour famine.
Cleveland's new $3,000,000 art muse-
: .1 . ti . ti x , ' I
shortly afteVl o'S"untU th last S to the public for
lomgnx. . I Th R.u n.;. t n I r. r,
nooseveii mi uniy man. waa installed fifth Mxhon Tnf th Ttffl
umucrs iiiivcio ixu euun to vonveai I aiO. JN. x. alocese.
tneir Dener mat iaiiure or tne corner- i
ence to agree or to find some possible A charter was granted at Dover.
Lower Reaches of the Stripa River Russians Have
Added Materially to Their Prisoners and Their Stores el
-Captured Guns, Machine Guns and War Materials
Germans Are Showing Activity Against the Russians cn ,
.....
the Northern Sections of the Russian Front French Bar- X
rier Fire Effectually Stopped Attempts of Teutons to j
, Advance Their Line East and West of the Thiaumont
: Farm, Northwest of Verdun Italians Have Stopped Atl- )
vance of Austrians.
vors the extension of the suffrage to a?18 r .n agreement could result In peL, to the Cuban Northern Railway
vut uuc uuus uiio luuiioujixLe uuuima I capital SXo,UUU,UUU.
oon oi uoionei jxooseveii. in ne woras
of Chairman Robins, "tomorrow prob
women, but recognizes the right of
each state to settle this question for
itself.
Having captured Lutsk, bne of
Fiftv tank cars were mirehnMi from I the triancrle of Russian forts in Vol-
As' the pendulum swung first one f wiu be a WS ln the conven- the American Car & Foundry Co. by hynia, from the Austrians, the Rus-
way and then another, gloom or ju
bilation reigned in the ranks of the
tion.
Only by many promises to place no I
women who through rain and wind stacle in the way of the nomination The Shackleton relief expedition will
carried their plea to the convention of Colonel Roosevelt were the delegates I sail from Montevideo toward Elephant
yesterday.
26 to 21 Vote for Suffrage.
The adverse decision that five ot
the sub-committee of the republican
resolutions. committee had - voted
against recognition of . woman suf
frage in the platform and four had
favored It, came early Jn the cay.
content to adjourn and await results I Island in less than a week.
from the conferees.
In Session About Four Hours. I Degrees and diplomas were confer-
The convention spent about four r.e.?on- 0,7 at the close of the 162d
hours in session, ending with a per- v-u""""
luiiuwiy iiigiit Keti-i.t-'i xiig wiiivu result-1 cr . . , , ,
ed mostlv in Binirine and cheerine. . For men wor" ini"d in an explo-
Durine the dav the temnorarv orran- ?on ono ot ? buildings of the Ed-
favored It, came early in tne -cay. f'"""6 I ison plant at SUver Lake N J
There was a hurried marshalling of J ization was made permanent and the plal1'' aL ouver ase, i. j.
the friends of suffrage and three
hours later the resolutions committee
as a whole voted 26 to 21 in favor of
recognizing the principle of woman
suffrage.
The Jubilation was short-lived, for
within half an hour word came that
the roll of absentees had been called
and seven committeemen were has.
tening to the committee room that
the favorable action might be recon
sidered.
Friendsrof suffrage on the commit-
platform of the resolutions committee
was received, read and made the un
finished business.
STEAMER FOR -RESCUE OF
- SHACKLETON EXPEDITION
sians are pressing their adversaries
westward. In numerous places the
Russians have not only gained the
oanhks of te Ikwa and Styr rivers,
but have crossed the streams and con
tinued their offensive against their
foes.
In the region of Kovel. midway be
tween Lutsk and Brest-Litovsk and
in the vicinity of Rovno, southeast of
the fortress, the Russians have begun
actions against the Austro-Hungari-
ans.
Likewise ln Galicia there has been
no letup in the Russian attacks
against the soldiers of the dual mon
archy, from whom they have captured
Capital stock of the R. L. Dollings alo5 the lower reaches of te Stri-
Taxes on war profits effective until
one year after the war has ended has
been voted by the French Senate.
Co. of Columbus, 'Ohio has been in
creased from $60,000 to $3,000,000.
The Institutopesea Sailed From Mont.
vediaT Last Evening.
Washington, June 8. Justice Hughes
remained in his study nearly all today,
continuing work on court opinions to
be handed down Monday,' but talked
ror a half hour late ln the afternoon
with George W. Wickersham of New
York, former attorney general, who
said he went to the Hugties home
merely for a social call and "carefully
avoiding mentioning politics."
'Mr. Wickersham came to Washing
ton, he explained, to see his dentist.
He had luncheon with the French am
bassador, who insisted that he take
the embassy carriage to make some
cans, ln it he rode to the Hughes
home, where be talked -first with Mrs.
Hughes and then with the. Justice, who
was consulting flown town with his
associates on the bench when Mr.
wickersham arrived.
"We deeply sympathize with the -fif
teen million people of Mexico who for
three years have seen their '' country
devastated, their homes ' destroyed,
their fellow citizens murdered and
their women outraged, by armed bands
oi desperadoes led by self-seeking.
conscienceless agitators who when
temporarily successful in anv localitv
have neither sought nor been able to
restore order cr establish and maintain
peace.
We express our horror and indigna
tion at the outrages which have been
and are being perpetrated by these
Danaits upon American men "and worn
en who were or are in Mexico bv invi
ration oi tne laws and of the govern
ment of that country and whose right
to security of person and property are
guaranteed bv solemn trpntv rvhllfrn-
nons. we denounce the indefensible
methods of interference employed by
this administration in the internal af
fairs of Mexico and refer with shame
to its failure to discharge the duty of
ns country as next friend to Mexico,
Its duty to other powers who have re
lied upon us as such friend, and its
duty to our citizens in Mexico, in Tier.
mltting the continuance of such con
ditions, first, by failure to act prompt
ly ana nrmiy, ana, second, by lending
Its influence to the continuation of
such con ditions through recognition
oi one or the factions responsible for
these outrages,
"We pledge our aid ln restoring- or
der and maintaining peace in Mexico.
we promise to our citizens on and near
our border and to those in Mexico
wherever they may be found, adequate
ana aDsoiute protection in their lives,
MDerty and property.
Monroe Doctrine.
"We reaffirm our approval of the
Monroe doctrine, and declare its main
tenance to be a policy of this country
essential to its present and future
peace and safety and to the achieve
ment of Its manifest destiny,
Latin-America.
"We favor tlie continuance of re.
publican policies which -will result In
drawing more and more closely -the
commercial, nnanaai ana social rela
tions between this country and the
countries oi tLeian -America.
Philippines.
"We renew our allegiance to the
Philippine policy Inaugurated by Mc
Kinley, approved toy congress and con.
sletently carried out by Roosevelt and
Taft. Even in this short time tt has
enormously improved the material and
social conditions of the Islands, given
the jphinppune people a constantly in
creasing participation In their govern.
ment and, if persisted in, will bring
still greater benefits in the future.
"We accepted the responsibility of
the Islands as a duty To civilization and
the Filipino people. To leave- wltti our
task half done would break our pledges.
injure our prestige among nations and
Montevideo, Uruguay, June 8. The
steamer" Institutoneaca. left here this
tee" were bombarded with entreaties I evening for Elephant Island for 'the
to stand nrm as one aner anouier oi i purpose of rescuing . the Shackloton
the absentees took their places, 'mere I exspedition. An officer of the British
were repeated parleys, a recess ''of I transport Macedonia accompanied the
luncheon ana nnauy reconsideration I rescuing party,
Mrs. Claude Grahams-White, of New
xork, was granted a divorce In Lon
don from her husband, the aviator.
pa river eavily fortified positions. In
tne lighting the Russians have ma
terially added to their prisoners hand
thehir stores of captured guns, ma
chine guns and war materials.
"Considerable activity- . has been
shown by the Germans against the
Bulgaria will nraet the furtner xost t Russians on tha-Jiorthern -seetions of
of the war with funds raised at home,
instead oi in uermany, as heretofore.
was agreed to and it emerged aS the proceed" half way, or the purpose of sttd for twenty-two died ves
Inst nlnnlr of thA rpmihllrfln platform. I Irlo- 1 mi -olooo I B . lOT lWenty rwo died yes
tr - x I nvviio n u ivoo vviuiuuuii lav u 1 TAffl9,V
final Vole OS XO I l 1 wiiu uic capcuiuuu.
The final vote in the committee on F",?"? yan. sler oi staie
tutu liic J 1. 1 l to 11 uiiuiourr wiuieaacu LUC
departure of the steamer, which will
proceed to Port Stanley, Falkland Is
lands, and take aboard Lieutenant Sir
Ernest Shackleton and then continue
to Elephant Island. -
was
6,000 CANADIANS HAVE
FALLEN WITHIN A WEEJ
the declaration as agreed upor
35 for and 11 against.
In the Bub-committee those oppos
ing votes for women wore Senators
Lodge, Wadsworth and Oliver, Charles
Hopkins Clark and Former Represan-
tative Howland of Ohio. , Thoso who
favored the plea for recognition wera
senators Borah, Sutherland and Fall
and Representative Madden ot 1111
nols. In the full committee Senator
Borah was the leader for the women's
plea and Senator Smoot took a prom
inent part in the negotiations fcr an
agreement which led to tne final ac
tion.
Credit Given Senator Borah
Credit fo preventing flat rejection
n the Desperate Fighting Around the
Sanctuarv Woods.
Ottawa, June 8. More than 6.000
Canadians have fallen within a week
in the desperate fighting in and
around Sanctuary Woods, according
to a statement made by Major Gener
al Sir Sam Hughes, minister of mill
tia, in presenting colors to a Cana
dian regiment on Parliament Hill to
day. ,
'The great majority, wounded." he
said, "already are clamoring to get
back into the fray, but many of the
gallant lads have gone crown never to
rise again. We aeeply mourn their
loss but that loss affords an inspira
tion lor tens ot thousands more to
take their places.
SHIPS LOST BY GERMANS
IN NORTH SEA BATTLE
Unidentified Cruiser Said ' to Have
Been Sunk Was the Hindenburg.
London, June 8, 6.25 p. m. A naval
officer of high rank who has just re
turned from, a visit to the battle crui
ser fleet informed the Associated
Press today that participants in the
North Sea battle estimate the total
German losses as follows: two battle
cruisers, three battleships, five light
cruisers, eight or nine destroyers and
one submarine.
This officer said he was convinced.
from evidence he had obtained, that
the unidentified battle cruiser said to
have been sunk was the Hindenburg,
GERMANS LOST THE
MODERN CRUISER ELBING
Was in Collision With Another German
Ship in the Baltic, May 31.
Berlin, Saturday, June 3, 4 p. m. (By
Wireless to SayviUe, June, S 'Delayed
In Transmission.) The German ad
miralty today announced the loss of
the modern small cruiser ESbing. This
vessel, the statement says, was in col
lision with, another German warship
and was lost m tne .Baltic May 31,
Her captain could not bring Hio El-bine
into port and she was blown up after
the crew had been taken off by torped
boats.
THE CONFEREES ADJOURN
. AFTER TWO HOUR SESSIOsN
the Russian front, where the Ger.
man guns have heavily bombarded the
line along the Dvina to the lake re-
gion 6outh of Dvinsk and thrown In
fantry attacks aaginst the Russian
positions south of Smorgon. In this
latter region the Germans report the Austrian offenses.
capture of the village of Kunawa, but
Petrograd asserts that all their at
tacks were repulsed. .
With the capture of Fort Vaux.
northeast of Verdun, the Germans
have attempted to advance their line
against the French east and west o
the Thiaumont farm, south of Doua
umont The French barrier fire,
however, held them back. Northwest
of Verdun, around Hill 304 and in the
region of Chatancourt, the artillery
duals are still intense.
Intermittent artillery duels have
given way to vicious Infantry at
tacks and counter-attacks by the
Germans and British around Hon;e.
Sniping operations between the Y:rn
ryridge and Lahbassee canal and
near the Hohenzollern redoubt wera
in the advantage of the British, ac
cording to London.
The Italians south and southeast cf
Trent continue to keep the Austrian 3
from further advances. - South ami
southeast of Asiero attacks by Vr.i
Austrians against Italian positions
were entirely repulsed, according to
Rcme, while along the Lagarina val
ley concentrations of Austrians -wera
dispersed by the Italian batteries.
Northwest of Trent In the Ort? r
region the Italians have attacked s r, I
captured several points of vantage
from the Austrians and farther south.
In the Chiez valley, have repulse .1
Tuesday set a record for the number I
of marriage licenses issued in Chicago, INVESTIGATING COLLISION ON
369 couples being authorized to wed on
that day,
NEW YORK ELEVATED ROAD
The main body of the Shackleton
expedition, comprising 22 men, was
left on Elephant Island, when
Shackleton and five men started out
in search of aid, eventually reaching
Port Stanley. These men were short
of provisions.
"Humin Rosea," a pageant in which
10,000 school children took place, open
ed the tenth annual rose festival of
Portland, Ore.
Nearly all the zino mines in the
Joplln, Mo, district are now operating,
the strike fomented by the I. W. W.
having died out.
BODY WITH THROAT CUT
All member of the, Cahinat tinvn
been invited to march with President I heen arrested on a charge of homic.'de.
In Which One Person Was Killed and
Fifteen Others Injured.
New York. June 8. A grand Jury
investigation was begun tonight into
a rear-end collision this afternoon be
tween two elevated railroad trains, in
which one person was killed and fif
teen others injured, some peil-.aps fa
tally. Edward Grove, the towerman on
duty at the scene of the crash, has
Parade on June 14.
AND TRUNK " MANGLED I Wilson in Washington's preparedness This action was taken. Coroner Flynn
announcea, alter tjrruve nttu aoznitieu
the signals were clear for the motor
man of the rear train to proceed, thus
permitting it to crash into the rear of
of the plan on reconsideration by the I Found by a Railroad Employe in New
committee was given to Senator JJo- I Haven Harbor.
ran, wno aeciarea tnat xne question
wouia De taken to tne noor oi tne con- I vrr ir.on
vention if the committee vote were t,oay of unidentified man, with his Bure a fair election,
overridden. I ih.t i ,i I
This stand, it was declared, forced I frill Yi rl -flrta Hno" in thA harhnr tnrlav Vtr I May production of the Greene-Can
a stay of the movement to overturn I a railroad emnlove Thn nnthoHHea 1 nanea copper jo. was 6,948,000 pounds
revolutionary aavocates held a
demonstration in Panama citv. de-
1 a; . , , . I iiAJa :
Conn., June .8. The I manaln American intervention to as- I
All the injured were passengers in
the first car of the local train, south
bound, and it was in Kiis car that the
motorman, Frank K. Kerrigan, suf-
CONFERENCE COMMITTEES
DISCUSS PEACE PLANS.
No
Name Except That of Colonel
Roosevelt Mentioned.
the recoamition and the modification I , i .". . I of copper. 183.809 ounces of sllmr nnrl I fered injuries from which he died in a
recofmizine the risrht of the Individ- tL " "1 i"v"r TZ- . 1.199 ounces of eold. ' hospital. The express train, which also
ual states to decide on the franchise I foul nlav or whether th rata were I 1 'was bound downtown, carried no pas-
within their borders was evolved. made hv the mroneller of a. nasslnsl Steve MacGordon, famous American i engers.
.nn tv. . ,oi,, I aviator, died at Newport News. Va I Flames which .burst almost Immedl-
PROSECUTION FOLLOWS nosed and evidently had hen in t-hs I ' burns received when his aeroplane ately from the wreckage did not gain
diidmim otr e-i ao water for manv weeks The man waa was destroyed by fire. I much headway, as firemen with lad-
wvniirnu w i r knuui . " i
fcix ieet tan ana aDout 4U years old.
Was Made Unfinished Business When
Recess Was Taken Last Night.
Magistrate McAdoo Convinced That He wore a sandy moustache.
Ames is Mentally Unbalanced. BDnRDresivc ei irenpM
New York. June 8. Ten persons who BEFORE THE CONVENTION
are alleged to have participated in the
burnine of the American and other na
tional flags at the Church of the Social
Revolution last week were arraigned
before Magistrate McAdoo today and I Chicago, June 8. The progressive
Ned Ames, who is charged with having I platform, with Its iprincapal iplanks
acted as master of ceremonies., was I aevotea to an exposition oi American-
held for examination as to his mental ism, preparedness, protection and
condition. The magistrate said he was woman suffrage, was laid before the
convinced Ames was mentally unbal- progressive convention today. It was
anced. The rest were held for a trial received with enthusiasm that pre-
in $200 bail each. saged its adoption with little if any
Trie ten defendants submitted to I change, and was made the unfinished
Magistrate McAdoo a statement signed 1 business when the convention recessed
by all of them in which they declared tonignt to allow its conierees to ais-
that In burning the various national cuss peace plans witn tne repupucans.
emblems no desecration was intended.
ders soon ascended to the structure
and extinguished several fires. The
smoke added, however, to the panic
within the train and made Jie work of
rescue more difficult. The third rail
also handicapped the rescuers. The ln-
Gov. Ortiz of Union Province. Phil- I Jured were taken down ladders to am
ippines, has been arrested, chareed bulances rushed from nearby hospi-
with instigating an attempted robbery I tals.
oi tne pnvwciai treasury.
Capt. Niven of London. Ontario, on
ly living officer of the original "Prin
cess Pat's" Canadian regiment, has
been wounded in battle.
Chicago, June 8. The conference
committees of the republican and pro
gressive conventions began discussion
of peace plans at 10.40 tonight, and
Senator Borah, one of the republican
conferees, predicted the session would
last at least three hours.
This was the situation as epitomized
by ono of the conferees after the con- j
lerence naa oeen in session a utiie
more than an hour:
The utmost tiarmony had reigned in
the meeting. '
Republicans were impressed with thq
apparent desire of the progressives to
effect an agreement.
No name except that of Colonel
Roosevelt had been mentioned. Pro
gressives, while showing a decided
preference for Colonel Roosevelt as tne
nominee, did not say they would not
support any other man.
The name of Hughes had not been
mentioned.
Encouraged by the happy opening cf
the conference, it waa said there was a
possibility that ttie conferees would
remain in session most of the nisht,
or until they had reached some ta.net- 4
ble agreement or complete disagree- 1
ment.
A special meeting of the Japanese
Cabinet was called to consider the sit
uation in China, resulting from the I
death of president Yuan Shi Kai.
Harry A. Jones, for 20 years as
sistant cashier and clerk of the Stone-
ham, Mass.. National Bank, was ar
rested, charged with embezzliner 141.-
000.
TWELVE SURVIVORS OF THE
CRUISER HAMPSHIRE
FEARS FEDERAL COURTS
WILL DESTROY THE REPUBLIC.
FRENCH 8ENATE ADOPTS
Representative Murray Deplores Move
ment to Nominate Senator Hughes.
DAYLIGHT SAVING BILL I exports from Spain to France, pay
ment lor which is made through Lon-
Measure Is to Become Effective June I aon.
14 and Continue Until Oct. 1.
Which Went Down Off the Orkney ls.
ands With Lord Kitchener.
London, June' 8, 9.30 p. m. One
warrant officer and eleven men. sur
vivors of the cruteer Hampshire, which
went down off the Orqney Islands, with
Earl Kitchener and members of his
Snnlili mnaii kmmv ia . M.Awi I staff aboard, have been washed ashore
premium in London, owing to heavy I on a raf l according to an announce-
Announeement was made by the
ment made by the admiralty tonight.
The statement says many official and
semi-official reports from the British
side- bave been systematically spread
abroad in order to deny tne greatness
of the German defeat in the naval
battle of May 31 and create an im
Paria Tuna a so n m Vr.Ur.-a-'r,f I Kansas Free Employment Bureau that
-vtt v.i T..mA s Tn I 7, , I the wheat harvest will - need Is oOo
Murray of Oklahoma, democrat, made Italy and the Scandinavian countries h?6". ana 1700 teams from out3lae ftTtoS,m,"
a speech in the house today deploring the senate today adopted the daylight I i
tne movement 10 Rummaie justice i saving Dill, aavancmg legal time oy i , . ., - . . . , . rnuDDnuiee Gru emit
FOR RAILWAY EMPLOYES
VTn?hAfl for tJh Tresidenr.v and nnnh'nirlnnA hnup Thn rhamhpr nf rffnntto I StriKB OT tne L-Ondon-PaCITlO i O-
Viscount Bryce's prediction that some this evening passed the bill witlfout troleum Co.'s employes at Talara, Pe-
day the federal courts would destroy 1 discussion. The measure now be-
the republic It drew no reply from comes a law, taking effect on the
the republicans. Representative Mann night of June 14 and remaining eftec
merely remarking that' the democrats tive until Oct. 1.
seemed to be very nructi afraid of ' '
Hughes, and calling for the regular PROGRESSIVE CONFERENCE
ru, during which fighting occurred be
tween strikers and troops, has been
ended.
It Is Expected That the Managers Will
Formulate One.
order.
A. J. Balfour, First Lord of the Ad
miralty, announced that the Admiral
ty nas not withheld news of any
New York, June 8. The conference
of representatives -of the railroad man-
WHEAT CROP PALLS OFF
ABOUT 300,000,000 BUSHELS
Due Largely -to Ravages of Insects In
- Kansas and Oklahoma.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP British loses in the naval battle oft "f6 of the count,Tr and of em-
Perkins, Johnson, ' Wilkinson,
parte and Parker.
Bona-
Jutland.
Former Mayor Carl H. Kellor. of
Toledo, Ohio, charged with bribery In
ployes over a' new wage scale adjourn
ed here today until Monday to give the
railroad managers time to formulate
answers to problems raised by the em
ployes. These have to do Willi- sched-
Only Statement Given Out Was, "We
. , , Report Progress." - -
Chicago, June 9. The conferees of
tne republican, ana progressive par
ties adjourned at 12.30 a. m., after
a two hours" session with the an
nouncement that they would not meet
again -until after the sessions of the
two conventions tomorrow. The . only
statement given . out was , that "W
report ; pgyyfaZ. -?
tnniirVit nr.mintcil n members of thi annnnfair tny , tnnA I ules of wages and overtime.' It is ex
progressive conference committee I cuiltv bv alary. pected, Judging from remarks made at
rwinafhinEitnn Jim SlPnuni trAi I Riwnra w (Pprlrtna. Governor- Hiram I I the conference, that the railroads will
cations point to a wheat crop 800,000,- Johnson, Horace Wilkinson, Charles J. I A contract for delivery to Gen. I come I,rwaFd M"Jay with compro-
ooo bushels smaller una year than that I JtKnaparte ana jonn m. x-ariter. jno i Funston's army or a military tractor
nf Iaf vmiv TlnnBHnnt nt a vrlmil- t mpAtlnc ItniA VlAJl heen net. aa.h walr was awoA Vi& Ctn.n I -
hire forecasts today indicated a winter I Aeroplane Co. of Plainfleld. N. J by ' Movements of Steamships.
wfieat crop of 9,0,tP0 "buahels, thir-1 Admiral Fiske to be Retired. I the War Department. J Liverpool, May 29. Arrived, steamer
ty mtltlon ouaneis leas than forecast in I - Washlnsrton. June 8. Rear Admiral I x . I Adriatic, isew York. Sailed. June
May. Conditions, due largely to In-1 Bradlev A. Fiske. whose difficulties I Mrs. Lola Maverick Llovd. wlfa of I bteamer California from Glaseow)
sects ln Kansas and Oklahoma, and alwith Secretarv Daniels -have attracted I William Bross Llyod, millionaire so-I New York. '. - '
spring wneat crop oi iB,mro,vuu push- I - widespread attenuon, was detached I ciallst, or unicago, was granted a dl-I new lort, June 8. Sailed, steamer
els. du to a decrease of 8 per cent, in I todav ' from the war college at New-I vorce on the grounds "of Infidelity. I Hellig Olav. Copenhaeen.
the acreage from last year and to .the I port, preliminary 'to his retiremeo . The custody of their five children and! 'New York. June 8. Arrived, steamer
latewerjBpring.- ".-T .-applonacooTgiyt-or-agB.;. . - .. .i i,ow juTrn, atocmaoim, uothenburg.
ROOSEVELT CONTINUES
TO HOLD OFF.
His
Sees Nothing That Requires
Presence in Chicago. 4
Oyster Bay. N. Y June 8. Colonel I
Roosevelt declared tonight that he
had nothing whatever to add to the t
sentiments expressed by him earlier
in the day in his message to Former
senator William B. Jackson of Mary
land, in response to the suggestion
that he appear before the national re
publican convention. He still main
tains the position that nothing haa
developed in the situation at Chica
go which requires his presence there
and there were no Indications late to
night that he was making prepara
tions for the trip.
The correspondents were receive.!
by Colonel Roosevelt as usual tonlerhe
at Sagamore , HilL He entertainef!
them for some time with the story ot
Invited them to visit his private "den" I
where he displayed some of his cher
ished trophies of the hunt.
ELECTRIC CURRENT OF 110
VOLTS PROVES FATAL.
N. W. Venting of Westport, the Victim,
Had a Weakened Heart,
Westport, Conn, June 8. N". TT.
Venting, 30 years old, was instant!"
kelled . today by coming into conn t
with an electric light switch In a !o ,
factory. The current wos of only 3 : 1
volts, but Medical Examiner Frr- r
Powers, in giving an opinion of a -dental
death, said the fatality v
mainly due to the weakened cone!;
of Venting's heart. Venting 1
widow and two small children In
town. How he came in contact -
the wires is not known.
Greece Places Embargo on
London. June 9. 12.22 a. m.
ports of coal to Greece have t
hlbited.
