0S C iPflluU) I Maui County Fair!
Maui County Fair f&mp W WV W W ; Noy Dec i and 2
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., JUNK 9, 1916.
NUMBER 16
Portuguese Stung
By Steven's Scheme
Expert Says California ' Land Is No
Good Laborers . Wanted Not
farmers 30 or 40 Maui Portu.
jucse Want Money Back.
In spite or the fact that the Portu
guese consul in San Francisco has
apparently endorsed the proposition,
definite information is now at hand
which shows that the scheme of O. A.
Steven to Induce Portuguese of the
Islands to immigrate to California,
was even worse than suspected here.
It will be remembered that Steven
toured the Islands some six months
or more ago, and hacked by flamboy
ant advertising created considerable
interest among the Portuguese resi
dents in his colonization plan. Ten
acre tracts of lands near Rotterdam
and Amsterdam, California, were of
fered by Steven at $125 per acre. The
land was supposed to be good for
general garden farming. On the
strength of his representations it is
understood that between 30 and 40
Maul Portuguese paid Steven from $25
to $50 on the price of the land. How
many from other parts of the Ter
ritory were also taken in, is not
known.
As the result of an editorial in the
Maui News, expressing doubt con
cerning the wisdom of residents of
Hawaii seeking to benefit themselves
as farmers in California, even under
most favorable conditions, the Cali
fornia state commission of Immigra
tion and Housing started an investiga
tion, the results of which thoroughly
discredit Steven's scheme. The fol
lowing from a letter of the executive
officer of the commission Bhows what
he thinks of the matter:
AVe had a soil expert, who Is an ag
ent of the University of California
Division of Agricultural. Extension,
and of the United States Department
of Agriculture, make a survey of the
land to which Mr. O. A. Steven Is
bringing Portuguese settlers from
the Hawaiian Islands. We understand
that quite a number of Portuguese
families have already been brought to
this country by Mr. Steven and settled
upon this land. You will note that
the report of this expert Is anything
but encouraging. You will note that
the agent of the land company himself
explains that it is not the Intention
that these people should make a living
on the land. Quite obviously, the in
tention is to import labor to be used
in the several projects referred to In
Mr. Bryant's letter. We have a letter
from the agent of the land company to
the same effect, although he claims
that the land is such that the people
could make a success upon It from an
agricultural point of view. However,
"With regard to statements which
his statements seem to be rather con
tradictory. have been made by other Portuguese,
and which have been published in the
Hawaiian Islands by Mr. Steven, to
the effect that they have been very
successful in farming in this region,
we would state that these statements
refer to land not very far distant near
the town of Atwater. There seems to
be a better streak of land through
there and many Portuguese have been
Very successful.
"We are furnishing you with this In.
formation so that you may be able to
give accurate reports to any persons
making inquiries or to do whatever
you can to prevent these people from
being deluded into the belief that they
are coming to a wonderful agricult
ural colony.
Very truly yours,
(Signed) GEORGE L. BELL,
Attorney and Executive Officer."
Expert Says No Good
Following is also a copy of the ex
pert s report made after a careful in
vestigation of the conditions on the
project:
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL
EXPERIMENT STATION
BERKELEY
Feb. 18. 1916
Mr. Geo. L. Bell,
Commission of Immigration and Hous
ing,
525 Market Street,
San Francisco, Cal.
My dear Sir:
I made an examination of the land
around Rotterdam and Amsterdam
which you heard was being put upon
the market by the Crocker-Hoffman
people with the view of securing Por
tugueso immigrants to colonize the
same.
As far as we could find out, the
Crocker- Hoffman people are not mak
ing an effort at all to colonize the
land around Rotterdam, but I think
they are figuring on placing some
Portuguese immigrants upon the land
around Amsterdam. I think the gen
eral plan is to sell each family ten
acres of land for $100.00 an acre and
give them three years to make the
first payment in and ten years to pay
the balance. This land is under the
(continued on pige 5)
Maunaolu Seminary
Girls Make Showing
Closing Exercises Of Popular Institu
tion Bespeak High Character Of
Instruction Pleasant Dance Clos
es Day
Saturday morning, June 3rd, the
closing exercises of Maunaolu Semin
ary took place in Baldwin Hall, be
tween the hours of ten and twelve.
Among the many present, were not
ed five of the Seminary's trustees and
a delegation of twenty-five Lahaina
luna students.
The Interior of the hall was most t'T
ectively decorated with pretty lei-? .!'
ferns mingled with Shasta daisies, and
the program of events both rhetorical
and musical was an attractive one and
excellently rendered by the giil stu
dents. The interesting scheme of entertain
ment following along modern educa
tional lines of current events and geo
graphy centered upon the Panama
Pacific Exposition and rvi'ected much
credit upon the school geography tea
cher, Mrs. Havens.
The selection of songs also was es
pecially pleasing and the girls' slnginp
harmonious and pure in tone ,was a
compliment to their training by the
music teacher, Miss Clark.
The Delsartian drill by the Primary
Department was most graceful and
much appreciated by the audience.
The following was the program of
entertainment:
Processional Maunaolu Song.
Scripture Reading Psalm 148.
Prayer.
Song My Heart's In The Highlands.
By tho Fourth and Fifth Grades.
A Description of a Few of the Great
and Interesting Courts, Palaces, and
Statues at tho Panama-Pacific Expos
ition. Why the Panama Canal Was Cut.
Ah Kam Cup Choy
The Wonder City.
Mary Apiki
Tower Of Jewels.
Emily Wilkins
Festival Hall.
Katie Wong Kong
Song- AMerry Life
Fourth, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh
Grades.
Palace Of Education..
Lininoo Rowland, Elizabeth Spreen.
The Palace Of Agriculture. .,
Rachel Kaholelani
Palace Of Manufacturing
Maria Sylva
Palace Of Horticulture
Daisy Sniffen
Palace of Liberal Arts
Elizabeth Taite
Song- From the Land of the Sky-Blue
Water
Sixth and Seventh Grades
An Exercise by the Primaries.(Drill)
Illuminations and Fireworks
Young Kin Lee
Sculpture At The Fair
Bernice Mahiai
The Fountain Of Energy
Emma Luke
The Column'Of Progress
Marguerite Lee
The End of The Trail
The American Pioneer
Eliza Kaalouahl
Wildflower
Fo Fung Yap
Victory
(Continued On Page 8)
a
Hundreds Attend Farewell
Dance To C. G. Whites
Save for the feeling of regret which
everyone felt at the imminent depart
ure of the guests of honor from Maui,
the dance at the Puia Community
House, last Tuesday evening as a fare
well to Mr. and Mrs. Clarence G.
White, was a most pleasant and suc
cessful affair. It was long past mid
night when the last of the fourteen
dance numbers had been played, and
Home, Sweet Homo reminded the
reluctant dancers that farewells must
be said.
The dance was given by Mr. and
Mrs. Harold Rice, Mr. and Mrs. W. A.
Baldwin, Dr. and Mrs. W. D. Baldwin,
and Mr. and Mrs. II. D. Sloggett, all
close personal friends of the Whites,
and the 200 or more guests who came
trom an parts or Maui lor the oc
casion, were accorded a most hearty
welcome. Mr. and Mrs. White also
assisted in receiving. During the
evening Rev. A. Craig Bowdish, In a
happily-inspired little address ex
pressed the community feeling of sad
ness in the parting with friends who
have meant so much to all of Maui,
and voiced the general hope that the
parting may be but an revoir. Mr.
White spoke very briefly in reply, be
ing obviously deeply affected.
The Whites expect to leave for the
coast in a few weeks, having sold
their property in Haiku, and also
their beach home. They will possibly
divide their time between Berkeley
and Cleveland, in the latter of which
places Mr. White has important busi
ness interests.
Governor To Attend
Opening County Fair
Writes Letter Expressing His Ap
proval Of Big Undertaking And
His Hopes Of Being Present
Unless something Intervenes to
prevent, which is not at present np
parent, Governor Pinkhnin will be on
hand to officially open the First Maul
County Fair, on Thanksgiving Day
next. This informal ion is contained
in a letter received by Secretary Gar
cia from the Governor. The letter in
as follows:
Honolulu, May 31, 1516.
J. Garcia, Esq.,
Scretary, Maui County Fair
Committee,
Waiiuku, Maui.
Sir:
Your kind invitation (hat I visit and
take part in the publ'c exercises at.
the First Maui County Fair is receiv
ed and accepted in so far as I may
anticipate a date so far in the future.
I think the idea is an excellent
one, for the occasion will be divorc
ed from anything that does not savor
of the soundest mutual public interest.
Maui has more than enough for all,
and it is the duty of the Government,
to curb selfishness and unbecoming
haste so that benefits may be effectu
ally and completely established.
The rules of good sound private
business need to be adopted and en
forced in civic business. If so adopted
ana eniorcecl, the results will show in
lasting, substantial work and sound
public finance.
To Work for llnltv of nurnneo iml
unity of action anion? the citlnn nf
Maui and to outline such public neces-
les as can be fostered by the Ter
orial Government, will be the im.
pulse that actuates my visit.
Respectfully,
(Signed) LUCIUS E. FINKHAM.
Governor of Hawaii.
Basket Ball Team
Has High Hopes
Will Play Palama Settlement Girls
Tomorrow Return Games June
20, 21, and 22 In Waiiuku
The Alexander Settlement basket
ball team will leave this evening for
Honolulu where it will play the first
game of a series to be played with the
Palama Settlement, team. The team is
much stronger than in any previous
year, and has strong hopes of wiping
out the defeat of last year.
A series of return games will be
played at the Gymnasium in Waiiuku.
on June 20, 21, and 22. The three
games will be played unless the first
two are won by the same team in
which case the third will be omitted.
A dance will, however, be the feature
of the evening of the 23rd in any
event. As it will cost the local team
about $100 to pay the expenses of the
visitors, tickets are to be sold for 50
cents for each game, or $1.00 for the
series, by which it is hoped to break
even.
The personnel of the local team is
as follows: Mary Hoffman and Ella
Bal, forwards; Katie Adams, batting
center; Helen Adams, side center:
Gladys Hart and Mary Hart, guards;
Constance Rosa, substitute. Miss
Mary Hart is captain of the team, and
Mrs. Arthur Iletts accompanies the
jolly party to Honolulu as chaperone.
Big Holy Ghost Feast
To Be Held At Paia
The feast of the Holy Ghost is to
be celebrated as usual with much eclat
at the Kuiiu Catholic Church, Paia, on
Saturday and Sunday, June 17 and 18.
Following the coronation of the quel n
on Saturday evening, and a grand pro
cessional, a display of fireworks such
as Maui has never seen has been
planned.
There w ill also be a band concert. On
Sunday morning High Mass will be
celebrated at 10:30 o'clock and later
a free luau will be served.
Mrs. James Shaw Is to have general
charge of the luau, which insures Its
success. The following committee is
handling the other features: Manuel
Nunes, Jr., chairman; J. M. Feiteira,
vice-chairman; John M. Medeiros, secretary-treasurer;
C. S. Capellas and
J. F. Souza.
t-tt
CLAUDINE TO BE HELD
A letter from Raymond C. Brown,
secretary of the Honolulu Chamber of
Commerce, brings the information
that through the efforts of this body
the Inter-Island company and the post
office department have consented to
hold the Claudine in Honolulu until
10:30 o'clock on next Monday evening
in order that. Maui people may be en
allied to witness the big pageant.
New Army Poloists
Add To Uncertainty
Great Interest In Tomorrow's Game
In Honolulu Maui Four Will
Make Good Showing
Great interest is being shown in
Honolulu over the polo game which
lakes pb'.ee tomorrow afternoon on the
Kapiolnni Park field between the Maui
team and the All-Army team of Oahu.
The Maui team will be known in- the
game as the 3rd Infantry National
Gu;ml team, and It is made up as
follows: ('apt. A. W. Collins, No. 1:
Private S. A. Baldwin, No. 2; Maj. F.
F. Baldwin, No. 3; and Capt. II. W.
Rice, hi'.ck. The Maui ponies were
sent, flown last Saturday and are said
to be in fine fettle for the game.
The Si'linfteld slick swingers un
doubtedly form the strongest com
bination of army plpyers that has ever
been brought together on Oahu.
Governor's Cup
Governor rinkham has offered a
splendid challenge cup for the event,
which must be won twice to become
the permanent property of either side.
Brigadier-General Johnson has put
up four individual cups to be won
outright by the players of the winning I
team.
Two of the Army players are well
known on local fields. They are
Lieutenant Haverkamp of the Fourth
Cavalry, who will play No. 1, and
Lieutenant Beard of the First Field
Artillery, who is slated for No. 2. The
new comers are Lieutenant Herr,
Fourth Cavalry, No. 3: and Lieutenant
Hoyle, the crack artillery back. Hen
played with the fast Eleventh Cavalry
team, while Hoyle was well known
with the Sixth Field Artillery team,
which won the army championship in
1912. Lieutenant Beard was nlso a
member of the championship organiza
tion that year. The team aggregates
seven goals, Haverkamp being rated
at one, and the other three players at
two goals handicap each.
Plans For Big Church
Carnival Shaping Up
Plans are progressing most favor
ably for the big carnival to be given
July 3rd and 4th. The big show will
he located at the Waiiuku baseball
grounds. The ladies making up the
bazaar committee have made up a
large list of booths, all of which will
be novel and Interesting. A baby
booth, pawnshop, Turkish booth, and
"Rebecca at the Well", are among
some of the novelties.
The Hawaiian Committee is going
to stage a real Hawaiian village. Ev
ery item will be typically Hawaiian,
and those patronizing the luau will be
treated to a real good old-fashioned
cabaret while they eat. This will bo
one occasion where some Hawaiian
specialties such as calabashes, mats,
(liiills, etc, may be obtained at reason
able prices. The grounds will be beau
tifully decorated, and the illumination
committee will have a large string of
lights besides clusters. A dance pav
ilion will be erected, for those who
care for dancing. The entertainment
committee is rehearsing a vaudeville
extravaganza, which in itself will be
well worth the price of admission. A
Country Store and Portuguese booths
will be other features of the big show,
to say nothing of the band concerts,
and fire-works.
Thomas Dunn of Kahului, chairman
of the advertising committee, is hav
ing elaborate posters made up, which
will help to give publicity to the
whole affair.
Many See Submarines
In Action Off Lahaina
Tho battle practice of the four K
class submarines off Lahaina during
the past week have afforded much int
erest for many Maui residents. A
large number of persons from central
Maui drove over to the Lahaina side
last Sunday where they witnessed a
number of very interesting maneuvers
during both morning and afternoon,
Most of the work of the under-sea
fighters was done close off shore, and
the spectators had no difficulty in se-
ing all that was going on. The accu
racy with which the boats were able
to discharge their torpedo at the mov
ing target, towed by the tender Alert
was the subject of much wonder.
While the boats were off port, Major
W. H. Young, of Lahaina had the un
ique experience of making an under-sea
trip in one of the boats during a prac
tice.
The work of the little craft is said
to have been very satisfactory, and
they left for their Honolulu base last
evening. Members of the crews re
port that the trip up was exceedingly
unpleasant, and most of the boys were
very seasick in crossing the channels.
BRITISH OVERWHELMED
BY LOSS OF KITCHENER
Both Sides Claim Victory In Great Naval Battle
Russians Claim Success Over Austrians
Germans Gain At Verdun
HONOLULU, June 9 Merchants discuss pennies as change, at
a meeting of the board of retail trades. Retailers are generally opposed
to handling fractions of nickel in making change. Business from other
islands also discussed.
Most retail stores and all government offices will be closed from
Saturday noon till Tuesday morning, on account of Kamehamcha Day.
General Sam Johnson plans a big Kamehameha Day celebration,
l'olo will be big feature. Everyone is interested in horses and race
track.
Governor is silent in matter of discharge of Martin Grune from
National Guard. "The less international relationships are talked about,
the better for all concerned," he says.
SAX FRANCISCO. June 9 Longshoremen will return to work
today. All demands have been temporarily been granted by employers
after a conference lasting 13 hours. Effort to reach a permanent
agreement will begin on Saturday with representatives of all interested
concerns, and Federal Medir'or White, of the department of labor.
Relieved no insurmountable dibiculty will lie found in way of permanent
settlement.
CHICAGO, Pune 9 Conventions are still in deadlock over Roose
velt. Progressives still clamor for P.ull Moose leader. Republicans
cannot bring themselves to annex him. National platform framed,
,ut party leaders stand out against
to work for harmonv. Party principles include compulsory military
raining, national defense, world
defense. W ild scenes ruled second
v'at form favors high citizenship and
LONDON, June 9 Twelve
This is the burden of a message from Admiral Jellicoe. One warrant
officer and 11 men washed ashore on
FL PASO, June 9 Anti-American riots take place in Durranzo.
Consulate is burned and Stars and
reatment of Americans.
LONDON, June 9 Slavs press heels of routed foe in Poland.
Austrians utterly unable to hold
Irish rebels are freed and then banished from Dublin. Count
Plunkett and countess, who were
been released.
WASHINGTON, June 9 Amore Hara, new Japanese diplomat,
will take place of Viscount Chinda,
States.
CHICAGO, June 8 Roosevelt's
Progressives' demands met on platform but not on Teddy. Republicans
rocced slowly, favoring woman's
nsisted on by Moose, but fail to
Progressives are meanwhile getting
Colonel. Demonstration of yesterday repeated. ''Americanism" and
neutrality planks favored. Progressives restive and want to name
Roosevelt without delay.
P.ERL1N. June 8 German admiralty has admitted the loss of the
tattle cruiser Lutzow and cruiser Rostock in the battle of Jutland.
LONDON, June 8 Austrians have evacuated Lutsk in bloody
tiiangle of Lutsk and Volhynia fortresses after heavy fighting. Several
ingades of Austrians captured with the fortress. Austrians lines
mve been broken and they have been forced to withdraw for 20 miles
through Lutsk sector.
PARIS, June 8 Heavy fighting
Vaux. Loss of this fort is admitted
aux.
LONDON, June 8 Dispatch
troops are ordered to hold selves in
account of the fear that the death of
French have dispatched a force
protectorate at Annan to Peking. Officers of the bodyguard of Presi
dent Li, have assured him of their fealty.
HONOLULU, June 8 Fight
Practicianers of medicine complained of are driven out of business by
the law. One offender fined $100 in
George Carter says Hull Moose
Oahu Sugar Company will pay
Regular dividend is now 20 cents
be (0 cents.
HONOLULU, June 8 Martin Grune, a naturalized citizen, up
for commission in national guard, would not fight, against Germany, he
stated when asked. General Johnson ordered his immediate discharge.
No place in guard tor such men, says Adjutant General.
lla.a:ian music may be plaved
committee is consideiing a plan to
Judge Morrow leaves tor a visit to Kiiauea today.
LONDON, June 8 Slavs continue to advance. Total captured
is now retried at 41,000, including 900 officers. Also break attacks
by Turks near J'agdad.
Germans claim to hae taken torts at aux on Verdun lront atter
nearly 4 mouths of effort.
CHICAGO, June 8 Progressives clamoring more strongly than
ever for Roosevelt. Tremendous demonstration marks opening session
(jf convention. Defiance hurled at republicans by delegates. Hiram
Johnson mentioned for second place to Roosevelt. Hughes grows in
popularity at convention. When republican leaders despair of union
with progressives, boom for Hughes is revived and spreads. Enthusi
asm is lacking at opening of convention. National conimittemen sends
telegram to Roosevelt to come to Chicago to harmonize Hull Moose and
old party.
SAN' FRANCISCO, June 8 lireak between ship owners and
stevedores wider. Employers to use non-union labor today to unload
steamers.
WASHINGTON, June 8 Washington may ask arbitration.
Mexicans riot against Americans while President considers an inter
national commission.
(Continued on Page Two.)
Roosevelt. Committee appointed
court of arbitration and better
session of the convention. Their
politics.
men survive the Hampshire disaster.
raft. More details expected soon.
Stripes defiled. No word regarding
rush of enemy.
prominent in the rebellion, have also
Japanese ambassador to United
figure looms over the convention.
Mill rage and other liberal measures
make definite move for nomination.
wilder, and may nominate the
continues today in vicinity of fort
by French who still hold outskirts
from Tiensing says United States
readiness to proceed to Peking on
Yuan will be followed by disorders.
of native troops from the French
against unregistered doctors ends.
police court this morning.
radicals held back for harmony.
$200,000 in dividends on June 15.
per share, and an extra dividend will
all over the country. Promotion
help mainland players.
