AT IsTRTAN T INK sMAsHFl) (IN MTT K PR H NT
1 LVU X X VX2 XX 1 J-JX1 1U alTAi. XX XJ-J-L Vl 1 I 1TXXI il l X X VV1 1 X
WEATHER Showara lo-nlght and Saturday.
51.
iH ED II
9t sT'l
I "Circalntion Books Open to All."
"Circulation Pooka Open to All."
20 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
CaprrLfht, HI 10, by Tha Vtnn I'abUsMni
Co. (The l York World).
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1916.
PRICE ONE CENT.
WMAL
Jjl EDITION
MMMJL
i
un nADir unocc
111! UMIIIl MUllUk
G.
Russians Drive Enemy Back
37 Miles on Front 94 Miles
Long.
AIMING AT LEMBIfRG.
Many of Retreating Soldiers
Surrender Without Resist
ance, London Hears.
IXJNDO.V, Juno 9. Information has
rachd 'tho Russian Embassy In
Rome that the Austrian front has
ben completely broken nlong a length
of ninety-four miles to n depth of
tnlrty-aeven and one-half miles, ac
cording to a Central News despatch
to-day from the Italian capital.
The Russian advance, according to
these advices, now threatens to en
velop the entire Austrian army In the
region affected, tho Austrlnna find
ing themselves attacked from both
the east and the north.
Austrlun Slav regiments are de
clared to havo been seized with panic
during the first attneks by the Rus
sians and to havo surrendered with
out any real resistance
A Rcuter despatch from I'etrograd
to-day reports tho continuation of tho
Russian successes In Volhynla nnd
Oollcla. The capturo of n addi
tional 1S5 officers and 13,714 men .s
announced.
Lemherg, the great fortress and
city of northeast Austria, about 160
miles from tho light front east of
Hrody, Is the Immediate goal of tho
onrushlng Russian bear, In the be
lief of tho London correspondents at
the front. Lemuorg Is about 100
mllea from and almost directly cast
of Przemysl, tho sceno of some of the
fleicest of tho eastern front lighting
early In tho war.
Potrograd now claims tM.Ouu Aus
trian prisoners and sots tho Austrian
casualties of the present offenstvo,
tlvo days old, at more than I'uO.OOO.
The greatest gain for tho Russians
reported beforo to-day was at Lutsk,
the third corner of tho Volhynlan tri
angle, of fortresses. At this point tho
Russians drovo the Austrlans back
twenty-llvo miles practically without
halt.
UKRMN. Juno 9 (by wireless to
Sayvllle). it Is announced at tho
Austro-llungartan headquarters un
der date of Juno 8, that the Austro
Hungarlan troops In Volhynla have
ri'ochcd new positions on tho River
Slyr after rearguard engagements
with tho Russians.
It It. also stated that the Russians
aru amlii attaching with strong
forces on tho lower Strypn In Unllcln
And that 'ho engagements havu not
yot been finished.
ITALIAN'tROOPSGAIN;
FOE'S ATTACKS SLACKEN
Weakening of AuMrian Ofteibive
Attributed U Transfer of Soldiers
to the IiusM,m Front.
LONDON, June 9.-Italian gains
made at several points northwest of
Trent, In tho I'hleao Valley, and tho
dispersal of Austrian concentrations
In the I.agarln.i Valley nrn rnnald
ered Indicative of the further rak.
enlnng of tho Austrian offensun due
to the withdrawal of soldiers to tight
gainst the Russians
In the last few days the Austrian
telal reports have not claimed
ns on the Italian front. Prior to
ta 4 rains had been reported !
)l dally for period of two weeks.
CZAR S TROOPS HEMMING IN
10LE OF AUSTRIAN ARMY;
TAKE 13,899 NEW PRISONERS
0. P.
GERMANS PIERCE
LINE ON MEUSE
IN FURIOUS DRIVE
Attacks Along Whole French
Front on East Bank Succeed
at Thiaumont Farm.
PARIS, June 9. The German havo
launched a general attack along the
entire front on the east bank of tho
Mouse and have penetrated the
French line at one point, but were
repulsed claewhere with heavy losses,
according to an official statement Is
sued by tho War Offlce to-day.
The point where the dcrmans
entered the Trench lines la In the
neighborhood of Thiaumont Farm.
The Ccrmans also made two smalt
attacks southwest of Hill 304, but
these attacks, tho statement says,
were repulsed,
The German attacks east and west
of the Thiaumont farm are being
made on a two'-kllomctre front. Tho
ofllclnl statomcnt characterizes them
as being of the utmost violence.
Tho region of Chattuncourt was
bombarded with violence yesterday.
Chattancourt Is a point on the Chat-tancourt-Ch&rny
Ridgo and Is Just
south of Cumlercs.
The text of tho statement follow:
"On the left bank of the River
Meu;e wo repulsed last night two
small attacks against positions to the
Bouthwest of Hill 304.
"On the right bank of the river the
Germans are continuing to deliver
violent attacks along a front of ubo.it
two kilometres (1 1-5 miles), atretch
Inc to the east and to tho west of the
Thiaumont Farm, Between this farm
and the Calllette Wood the enemy
penetrated one of our trenches. All
their endeavora on the west havo been
checked with heavy losses to tho
enemy.
"In tho region of St. Mlhlel a do
tnchment of tho enemy which was en
deavoring to approach our lines to the
cast of Ulslee was dispersed by our
fire."
LOSSES OF BRITISH
HEAVY IS GERMAN
VICTORY SEAR YPRES
I1KRI.IN, June 8 (via wireless to
Sayvllle, Juno ). An Important suc
cess In tho Gorman attack on tho
Rrltlsh line In tho district of Hongo
was announced to. day by tho War
Office. It Is stated that the Hrltlnh
have been expelled entirely from tho
village and also from connecting
tienches westwnrd and southward.
Capturo of tho heights In tho dls-
. trlct southeast and cast of Vpres over
I a front of about two miles also Is an
1 uounced, Tho Rrltlsh losses aro said
' to have been very hoavy,
'
1 $10 Men's & Young Men's Suits, $5.95
The "HUO" Clothing Corner, Hrosri
nny at Hitrclay St (Opp. Woolworth
Bulldliifl). On sale to.ilay Saturday
1 lion Mn' b Young Mfn'n Suit Pinch
Hicks blues, blr.rkn. plaldn, brovwu,
cr A fancv mixed Slies 32 to 44 Our
si'etal nrlrf Inr to-day nnd Saturday.
IS.S5. Open Faturdsy nlaht till to Hub
' Clothltrs. Broadway, cor Harcla at.
Advt.
MAY
MOOSE DELEGATES LAUGH
AT THE CHEERS FOR TAFT;
THEN AGREE TO MORE DELAY
Progressives Get News by Phone
From the G. O. P. Meeting Groans
at the Report That Roosevelt Got
Little Applause Several Changes
Made in the Platform.
By Samuel M. Williams.
(Special Staff Correspondent of The Evanino World).
PROGRliSSIVL: NATIONAL CONVENTION HALL, CHICAGO
June 9. Wrought up to highest
alternately broke out in wildest cheering and then hushed into breathless
silence, to listen to latest news from the Republican convention hill. A
telephone bell on the stage rang. You could hear a pin drop, ts wire
connected the two halls. Henry Allen of Kansas was phone operator and
announcer at the Progressive end.
"Gov. Whitman is nominating Hughes."
Silence and depression in Progressive convention.
"Whitman mentions Taft, delegates' cheering, galleries laughing."
Laughter in Progressive convention.
He reported the excited Bull Moose from time to time the latest
bulletins:
"The committee report read to the Republican convention. The
galleries are wildly applauding."
Cheers from Bull Moose.
"About a hundred delegates on the Moor joined in the demonstration
for Roosevelt. The rest are sitting firm and silent."
Groans.
"The Republican convention has voted to continue ils coiiterence
committee," announced Allen from the telephone. The Progressives
consented to do the ame.
For three hours, during their
mornina session, the Progresiives
hovered on the brink of nominat
ing Col, Roosevelt and putting an
end to all peace negotiatings with
the Republicans.
But each time, just as the Bull
Moose herd started bolting out of
the corral, some fortunate incident
or quickly plannod diversion
atopped the atampede. It finally
took a recess until 3 o'olock 4
o'clock Chicago time.
Swept by a utorm of en
thuslasm over tho report of
tho Conference Committee, the
Progressive convention wont wild for
Roosevelt nt noon to-day. Tho dele
gates mistook nt first tho report to
mean that tho Republican conferees
had nccepted Roosevelt, For tlvo
minutes tho convention hall rocked
with cheers. Then they made thu
Chairman read It ag.un nnd were still
enthused, but buzzed with questions
whether tho language of tho Republi
can report really recommended tho
Colonel or merely reported what the
Progressives said without nxpressln
Bny Republican iecommeiulatlons. Thn
report of the conferees la as follows!
"To tho Progressive National Con
vention: "Your committee appointed pur
suant to tho resolution adopted at
yestcrdoj's neslon met In ronferonro
with the committee representing tho
National llpuhllcan Convention last
evening The Committee, of Confer
euro representing tho Republican Na
tional Convention consisted of Messrs
Reed Hmool, W. Murray Crane, Will
iam I J. llorah, Nicholas Murray
llutler and A. R. Johnson.
"The ronference was most friendly.
Immediately upon uMcmbling your
committee proposed as thn Joint ivm-
ine" of both convent ions tho ii.iiiw of
Theodore ltousopt.
"The eninmittei' representing the I r .
publican National Convention di i n-t
present the nam of any candidate.
(Continued ou Second Pace.)
uiii i
ffflkk WWII
FORCE A BALLOT TO-NIGHT
pitch of excitement the Progressives!
KITCHENER WAS LOST
MAKING WAY TO LAND
War Lord and HK Staff Downed I
After Leaving the Doomed Hamp
shire, Is Report to London.
LONDON, June 9. Iord Kitchener
and his staff were drowned off the
Orkney Islands whllo trying to mako
their way to shore from the sinking
cruiser Hampshire, according to an
Aberdeen dispatch to tho Times to
day. Twelve men from the cruiser who
clung to a raft were washed ashore
and saved, tho Admiralty announced
last night. The rescued men ore a
wnrrunt officer and eleven enlisted
men.
Tho nous from Scotland that there
were survivors was received with ex
pressions of relief, for now ut lea -it
tho story of tho sinking of tho crulswr
wilt bo told. 1'p to the present oven
tho Admiralty had no information as
to tho rnuBO of tho disaster.
Tho nous, too, has again suggested
tho possibility that other inn on
board tho Hampshire may ,iIm havo
reached hind on one of the rotkv, un
inhabited islands of tho Orkney group
and though unablo to communicate
with civilization, nrn wafo ThU h'ip,
It is granted by thos wh" imiit..n it,
Is of the most meagro h"M with little
probability that Itwill ,o fulllllrd.
GEN, JOFFREJN LONDON,
MEETS WAR COUNCIL
LONDON. June 3. C.en. JofTre, the
Prene.h Commander In Chief 1, )n
London. He attended an I
(..nfei-ence at tho Knre.gn Dili, i,,.
d.iy with I'uiil Cinilinn, tho I'rrmrh
: Audits ulor; Sir K'H,ird llrnj. ih
J "i"' .go mtn t.ii y. mil Hie riic.-nlii
i of t hi Wn T I 'OHIO !
I s
srjgNif mim f I;.W
rm."""1"" " ""ai
chit diii
GREAT OUTBURSTS OF CHEERING
FOR NAMES OF ROOT AND HUGHES
Supreme Court Justice Who May
Be Named for President
WS$f'
COLONEL WON'T GO
I
TO CHICAGO; SEES
NO NECESSITY, YET
If He and Hughes Are Nomi
nated and Latter Won't Run,
That's Difl'erent.
OYSTER RAY, June 9. Col. Roosc
velt to-day told tho newspaper cor
respondents: "I can see no change In
tho situation which will call mo to
Chlrago." Ho Is Htlll keeping Jn
closest touch with tho Hltu.itlon.
I'rlemls of the Colonel j,ec only one
possibility of his going to Chlngo.
They point out that If tho Progres
sives nomlnato him ami the Rfpub.
llcans nominate Hughes, Hughes may
decline the honor, foreseeing that tho
divided party would havo Utile
chance of electing him. In that event,
Roosevelt, they sty, would get on the
ground quickly to ntr.ilghtcn out tho
tangle.
Col. Roosevelt to-day recolved con
futing reports on Uio pe.jce con
ferences b"tveon tho Itopublicuns
and Progrohsives, He will issue no
statement concerning thorn until ho
Is apprised of thtdr exact Hiatus,
Tho Colonel was up List night until
! o'clock talking to Progrussivo hjytU
quartern on tho long dis't.tnco eo.
p'lone. Two hour .if tor he retired
ho was awakened and answered an
other Chle.iKo e.ill, Ni ti rtiirlPds, he
it, is up bright .ind i.nlv i'iim morn
inc.ind nppeured i, i,.- ,ri h.gn spn us.
t'o h'MiHotell is eifnoj a ,.'teit
corking n tor or efto tin h loiimailv
gettln; mora enjoyment out of the
HULL muuubi
'HaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBm
l9tSmm jbbbbbbbbbbV
political double-header now being
played all over Chicago than out of
any situation that bus claimed his
attention in a. long time, and to-day
found him In thn highest fettle, pas.s-
lug out slaps on tho back, digs In the
I nUs. long, low, rakish, significant
i Inn Ub'H ind luiigliliT of tlm most
i pl'i!lvii sort.
, That private telephone wlro may be
costing him a bairel of money, hut
up to tlx- present tliuo lin appears to
bo getting a hogshead of fun out
of It.
PROGRESSIVES DECLARE
FOR FULL SUFFRAGE
AtlUTORUM HAI.I,, CHICAC.O.
June 9.- Tho I'rogresslto ''nventloii
MiMonded 'bit PI. n form Cumilllttee'M
plitik on W'.iniiiH Stirfr.ige m .tn to
(pit ne fur i '"' "full right of cuffrage
lv both Ki . ral 'tint Ki.tte action."
'ill' lommiiiio li.td used thn word
ither."
BURTON LOOMS UP
AS G, 0, P, DARK HORSE
ciiicAc.o. .iui... 9 senator iiunon
or Ohio loomxi up ..s .ho Htrongest
'd.uU liorso" o.tii. Inl.it.' fur the (i O.
p pr.hidontiai ,, ,t,o , i.ii,K
ci.-ms ne.H to.dav ui.rn . I,.., tn.o,irv
nuotcd tho Hui'koii) St.it, s f.ivutiu.
Hoii'N oiuiiii oH nt i to i Hurt. . n was
..IlioU'l hi ii to 5 ycHi.rl.iy
The (linn iiniegation is Mrong foi
llurton, ''d tho laci that Nick luig-
worth, Ti ld .s.in-in-liiw , In ono of
tllll .ll'loi,'. Ill'i IllUltOH iin us if tf
two pailiis might t'oiniiroiiiisti on
Illll'loil
(Tor Racing Result See Pn(je 2.)
( Entrits on Pnfjij 15.)
1 III. Wlllll It I II I.I. Ill KK.U!,
' , V I' . .! -H r ii II i i biii
Ik. i.. I . . Ii. . v r.i,
TV'I I ,in, . , ,, ,,f
Bruit i ps.i '-"'' .'I J "iui ,imH-,i,
nrn 1l 0't ni.-;' Tr, fllvlu to,) mno.f
lit T ,DhL. H,.,min ll.Vi . 4ri
i unncc
Taft Gets Six Minutes of Applause
Demonstration for Roosevelt Is
Quickly Stopped -Teddy's Name
Will Be Presented to the Conven
tion Root Nominated by Nicho
las Murray Butler.
By Martin Green.
(Spaoial Staff Correspondent of The Evanino World.)
:o.Vi;.TH)N HAM,, niKWUO, Juno O.-JusUre Charlea Mtmi
Hughes of Uio United Stntet Supremo Court was submitted In the IlepubU
ran Contention by (Jut. Charles S. Whllmnn of .New York as candidate for
the nomination fur President n little alter noon to-day.
(ior. Whitman nas brief In his remarks, nnd, contrary to eipectatlons,
did not outline to the contention an; of .Mr. Hughes's notifies or prin
ciple In national affairs, coiitenllng himself ulIJi rending from a speech
dellTcred by (he Jurist several yeurs ago.
Several hundred delegates nnd alternates managed to keep a hurrah
for HuffhiN allre for more than twenty minutes, but thero nns nolhtna; de
lirious about It- The V2,WM sprclators snt unmoved and watched (be spec
larle on Inc. Door Ix-lnvt. Thn convention previously cheered Tail's name
for six mlnules, and snt doiwi hard on n dcinonslrntlon for Roosevelt
1 1 1 1 It ti Hoot nns placed In iioiiilnntloii In n ralubovr chasing speech by
Or. Mrholns Murray llutler. .lust as thn llorlor mentioned the rainbow
(here nns a tremendous clap of thunder, and rnln began to fall when he
i brought in the natne of Itont. Then n woman from Washington with the
i name of Root--not related to the former Senator- led In making a demon.
, slrntlon for Hie New Yorker iililcli Inslrd ns long ns (he cheering for
Hughes.
I'nllimlng llils (io. WIIIN of Ohio placed Senator Murlon In nomlna-
lion and slnrlcd a demonstration (lint lusted thirty-four minutes.
i The rnnixntlon iimuirc ntlv Is iloleniilneil In name tho lloVot riirnrillii
of Uie Progressives. The radicals of tho Progressing seem equally de
llant, and all hope of an agreement seems to hnve been forgotten.
It was stated that tho Republican leaders would force the balloting
to-night.
Following (he nrrlwil of Mciiralli nnd l.oeb nl the Progressive (.'onven.
(ion a report tvus clrciilaled In ttlilrh the parly ninnitgers gate ready ear
that Col. Roosevelt Intended In nlllulnitt his name. There seemed to be
no competent authority for the prediction, nnd radicals said they "uonld
tiume Teddy unynny."
It was announced that Col. Roosevelt would be nominated In tha
Republican Convention by Senator Fall of Sow Mexico.
Five-Minute Cheer for Taft
When Whitman Mentions Name
In Putting Hughes in Nomination
Roosevelt Also Gets Applause in the G. O. P.
Convention Report of the Conferees
Well Received by the Delegates.
(Special from a Staff Correjponcient of Tha Evening World.)
CONN hN'MON HALL, CHICAGO, June 9. After all, twenty
years haven't m;iJe such a great difference. In 18 Mark. Hanm nonv
j)acJ William McKiiilfv. In 1910 some 2.0(H) delegates, representinr
" 1 "
over 7,oi)0,oo() voter, have mure or les willingly turned the task of nom-
j tj ;, UqmNican l'roRresj.ive candidate over ta ten centiemen of
" 1 v "
diveNfied hahif$;of thought. If there is a Mark I lamia or halt a Mark
,, , ... ... ... , ....
ii.uiu.i wiini .ii'juiiii utt.-t jmiis
, , ,
,1 Villi'.
The tui conventiuns in csmoii here have vr thins but capable
leailerslnp. 'I here was an aciie inteiest ahtut the Republican Conven
tion a (he .k'lt'xaU's and vcuiors ,p.seniblei to.day. The delegate?
had read ilie morning pipers and num of them knew almost as much
about u ;ut a.(n u"init i n .is ii the had lemained at home. In anticipa
ii"ti of excitement md in ilie absence ot rain a bit; crowd was on hind.
1. l
.
the way. the battinc averare of ths mm who distributed tha
i-jmi (unit is miuvmiij; ji ihj uuer wiin
(
I
,i.iiiiii'
aw 'V i. d.n. ii maafci
US
at
ufta,nf mt
