?
(
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Showers to-day and probably to-morrow ;
IT SHINES FOB ALL
east and southeast winds.
Highest temperature yesterday.
Detailed weather, mall and marln
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 283.
PRIClfr
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Sun Prtntlno and Publtshtnp Association.
3tm.
.lalilll!.!!
iTcpijBl Mjll 5.
Wfrs.
LUTZK WON BY
THE RUSSIANS;
GAIN ON STRYPA
Austria Thioatcnoil by New
Invasion of (ialicia From
Two Directions.
12 SURVIYORS
OF KITCHENER
TRAGEDYLAND
T1VO-PAR TY CONFERENCE ENDS WITHOUT A GREEMEN
PROGRESSIVES STILL STAND OUT FOR ROOSEVELT;
REPUBLICANS TO BALLOT TO-DAY; HUGHES LEADS
. miii vi.'it- n t i i'ii r i t.'o .
TOTAL NOW 5 1 ,000 1
i v
hate ot rortress oi lmzk.
September 1, 191.". Captured by
Germans ami Austni-llungarliins.
September 23, 1915. l-.vactiated
by Teutons.
September St, 1915. Recaptured
by IStl-slims, with 4.000 prisoners.
September "S, 1915.- Kvucuated
by Iluss.ans.
October 1, 1915. Itccnpturcd by
Germans.
June 6, IMC Captured by Itus.
Inns.
Special raltt Despatch to Tin- 9t".
1)Mhn, June 8. The Volhynlan fort
rets nf Lutzk, thirty miles from the
Oallclan frontier, fell Into Russian hands
lajt Tuesday, the llrst Important enpture
by the Czar's forces sltico their great
prlng drive on the 250 mile front from
tot t'rlpct to the Kumaiila bonier began.
The fall of I.utzk wan nnnouncet by
the ltUKdan War Ollice to-night. Vienna
riocs not ct udmlt the loss nf the fort
iffs, hut elated ollhially to-night: "We
leached mir new positions on the Styr."
Lulzk I.i situated on the western bank
c( that river The abandonment of the
fortiess was foreshadowed by yester
day's Austrian report that Ihnperor
Kram is Joseph's troops weie tompelled
to tetlte Into the plain of I.utzk.
The r.iptuiu of I.utzk threatens the
Aiistrians with a new invasion of (ialhl.i
fiom the north. Vienna despatehes e
Itcj the fear that the abandonment of
Pubim, the iuha of the Volhynlan fort
t 'ss triangle, mil beoonie automatically
ii essary. ami the fall of that strong
hold would compel the Austto-lluti-Sarians
to letlie within the Oiillclan
Winter.
Ciirthcr since no Mr in.
The Ilufsiaiis, according to Petrograd,
siorid another notable siiive-s tn the last
t. nty-four hours. Pushm foiward .n
ma-i'ii f. n t'lon. w. u ati un-pr-ccTlf-rired
otiTiimr'lir ar'!Very .tl v
I i-es-ed the A -tro-llmiKat iin troops de
' ling the "doors to Ihe liiko.vlnn" to
'hi Itiver ritrypa, taking strong sisi
tlo'is on the Try hucluw',e-f..laH.lowice-froi
t Until place- He a lew ullis from
aie another w, m "f the Stryp.i and
null of tin" important eity of Ituiv.iz.
''Ills success, if Wowed up by further
, oeress. menaces the Rukowinu crown
with Invasion and the whole Ails-tro-Hungarlan
arm defending It esti
mated at from "."lO.ilini to 3fMi,onu with
being cut on.
The Russian n.llclal report asserts that
the total number of prlm-iet taken In
the new offensive has been brought ui to
It."'").
The Russian War orriee statement
fellows :
Tuesday we captured the dlstrlet
and town of I.utzk, also many points
on the line of the -leers Ikwa and
Btyr, crossing them and continuing
cur offensive.
In Ciallcla, on th lower Stryp.i, we
Mormed strong positions on the Trybu-ehowlco-Jazlowlce
front and ate e!oe
to the Htrsvi.
In addition to the tn.oif) prisonerh
kiforo recorded we captured tlfty-i'lght
ottHers and 11,000 men and iiuull
tlM of guns and machine guns.
As a result of tho lighting In Vol
hyrda and (ialicia an lmpo:tant vic
tory has been crowned by a deep
mashing In of the enemy's fiont.
The Austrian War Of flee statement
'sfucd to-night Is sigiiltlcantly brief. It
asserts that Itusslan attacks on the
Strjpa Here repulsed, but adds that on
the lower part of that river "the s..-ong
i.miy offensive continues." The state
nifiit follows:
U'e reached our new po-ttions on thu
6:r and repulsed the enemy attacks
on the Stryp.i.
On the lower Strypa the stiuii',
eio'tny oifensiie continues.
IrHteu) or I. nt Venr i:niilo eil.
llntli against thu Austilan lines In
ilh'u.i and in southeastern ilalnia
tint Itussians aie pursuing the same
di-ral urateg as wan followed by
1 nil in the closing U.irter of list ea'r
'' l in tin- beginning of the present
ear llaeli time they concentrated the
"ii a Impetus of their olTensivs against
zk in Volhynla and against lltiezaz.
i .e Key to f'zonowltz, the lliikowlna
uipit.il
In the latter movement l ho only gain
I ay made about four months ago was
' bout eight miles, later recovered t,
he Teutons It had been wtestid froiii
the di'tenders at a trememlous cost in
f 'tlinated by tho (ieiniau War
'If e at the time at '.in.OOii officers and
ii . '
1" Volhynla they succeeded, after tak
ln, I.utzk the s'-cond time, in driving a
K'-a' wrdge Into tile Teuton lines, but,
' Austrlans. lei nfiirceil In thu nick of
' n o and aided by some (iennan de
' i luiieiiis, drove the Itussiani again
" j'hI the Volhynlan line, In tlio dirfe-
" of the fortiess of Itovno. They
fi- got any fuithrr. however, than
1 It" twenty-five mllea from Itowio,
"ieiD the situation stood practically
'inary until the Itussians began thulr
w iSMiiills a little mote than a week
Liking advantage of the salieiu
h thr AustriaiiH had been unable to
' '.lighten out.
Fourth Fnll tif Ilu- I'ortres.
I.utk. situated tluity-llve miles from
' '.allclan bonier, Is 11 modern strong-
i eiee'ed within lerent years to wind
"I' p mslbln Austilan aggiesslnn t Is
' 1 ihkiii angle of the Volhyiuan fin
'res tin. to ntlieis. I mbiio, tho apet,
iaie, thirty miles In the southeast,
' I m Teuton hands, ami Itovno, thhty
" I' s to the east, having been built for
ipport. When the ilerman and Alls
' Hunsarlan imnies last autumn com
"elleil Rio ItusslaiiH to tetlte on llm
" in film mile fiont l.ntzk was one of
r most bitterly contested points on
the souihMii p.nt of the line. It changed
Conlltttird on Ftth l'agt.
lors of the Hampshire
Escaped on Haft anil
Hcaeh Orkneys.
LONDON KXI'KCTS
STONY OK DISASTHK
Wwii Cii(.e Ht$vnteh to Tnr. Si.
UNto.v, June S. Twelve sailors at
hast survived the sinking if the cruiser
Hampshire, aboard which Lord Kitchener
ntiil his staff met death. Tho Admiralty
announced tho names of the survivor
to-night, saying they were on u raft
which was washed ashole on one of the
Orkney Islands. The party consisted
of one warrant oftlcer and eleven men.
Although neither thu name of Lord
Kitchener nor of any of his party appears
on the list, the news that there were ur
vivors was received with expressions of
relief, for now' at least tho story of the
sinking of the cruiser and tho loss of th
Scretary of State for War will be told.
I'p to the present even the Admiralty
had no Information as to the cause of the
dtsaster.
The news, too, has again suggested
the possibility that other men on board
the Hampshire and In this connection
the Hrltlsh public naturally thinks first
ot Lord Kitchener may also have
reiiched laud on one of tile rocky, unin
habited Islands of the Orkney group und,
though unable to communicate with
civilization, are safe. Tills hope, It Is
grunted by those who mention It, Is of
the most meagre sort with little proba
bility that it will be fulfilled.
. Ylgoious Sl'lllio in t'riuh m.... .
for the iKidles of Lord Kitchener and I
A vigorous sent en Is neing proseeuieu
others aboard the Hampshire. Several ( suffrage, but left to each State the prlv
bndles, Including that of Lieut.-Col. O. . liege of giving to or withholding from
A. Fitzgerald. Lord Kitchener's military ,, baIIol, Jts most important
secietary, are lielng brought to Thurso. '
Scotlandaccording to a despatch from ' business was tin, acceptance of the Pro
that town to-day. 1 greslve Invitation to confer by Joint
The Irish situation was the only rea- i committee on peace possibilities, and a
so.i why Ii.ivld Llud (iisirge. Minister , committee of tle was named to meet a
or Munitions, did not sail with Karl progressive committee.
K.tchcner and the other olllclals on thei Considerably more spirit was displayed
Hampshire, it was said to-day In political i ),y tne delegates to-day than at the
cltcles. session jestcril.iy. There was more le-
All arrangements hint been made for . spotiAe to oratory, more vim manifested
Mr. Lloyd lieoige to make the trip to j In Uoor and platform discussions and
Itiissla. when the llovcrnment suddenly much more optimism exhibited generally,
decided that hi services were more ur- As matters stand the convention when
kvnll needed ill an attempt to brine i It assembles to-morrow morning a-t 11
about an ngiiimeiit between thu Irish o'clock will Ik- iciidy to hear nominal
factious. lug speeches and to ptepare for the big
i ne spy outcry w nicn lonoweu inv .
death of Karl Kitchener and his start
lej to flesh attacks to-day on alien shop
keepers in I"tidon, but on a smaller
seale than after the Lusitamu dluikter
.-oine hake's' shops 111 north of London
owmd bj alleged ilermatis and Aus-
triaus were attacked, but only one shop
was seriously damaged The police 1
scattereil II
rioters.
EXULT OVER K. OF K.
(ierninii Pinters llnp That I Hunt
lllil so oil tiiioil Work.
IVni.iN. l.i Amsterdam, June S -
There Is no sympathy or pity In ier
mam with regard to the death of Lord
nubile the
has 1,,.,.,, 1
Kitchener To the 1 iennan
dead lliitlsh War Secretary
popularly known 11s "the timelier of
umilurnian" and "tho scourge of the
liners."
The following comment of the Kick:
fllioif Is characteristic of the pre-s
comment neie
theelmg' i, T .rr SlBft .0 VpomaneltV of J'-" A-'J
IlOlU JO. Ul.ll .HI-. r" '..'
n....l .I..,i.,.tflllU ami MIOSI n f M
"" "" . . 1 .i.,..i.
the
Skagcrrak, may
now teei miicrucsm.il.
tion over the fac
that a un t or tho '
.. ,.i.. i...i. '
imtcd 'ieri.ui 1 r , as ..
Vs z ; ; ;; t.w .mi,-.;,
' .."-' ; y
,d while . '- '" . ' '"''
lf.it 11 was one . ..n
ni.tlon
"He was linilmibtidly entrusted with
the task of goltn to Itusla In order to 1
organize the Iinai nesperaui res.siao v .
1 ..ir' ,r.V l.M.l wV.if.ue in a way ! I11'"1" ol",,'rs mii"ly ,,ml , V Hughes, we won't take Hughes!"
,, .....slhle i"d npatny 1 ne ii-i..k.i.-s ...... n ,,,,.,. ,statc lM,R,t up the cry and
that i.o,:e w.'uld b n . ' ' ' ,;l ol ),'t KliakHi ..ft III" curlou, Innlla ,, 1KnH .., ,,,, a,.Pn
we will not deny the .lea el e. m.i.e yesterday's natherlng so un- ,', vor , ,,,.,.
We count him "s ma In the la e-t utpnlb;.. lU.e:ny ,,Vtr nt.h( , N,.w V(llKl.r ;i,M) ,,,,
sense n.ld lie Justllbll the hope of his ,,.i,llr ,tl. .
the Russians 10 ine inm . 011111 m 1.111- , (.,, t little ouirerences iook p.ace un
denburg, und while he never would have (. (')( pandanls of State delegations,
fully succeeded, thanks to the greatness ,,.,, or of New MiaIco, the Risise
of Field Marshal lllndeubiirg, his death , oop ,..uPr uli the man who will
Is none the less a heavy blow for the t t)l, name of the Colonel formally
eaiiu of the Allies. pefore the convention, whlsieied with
'Our enemies aie not 1VI1 in i.enernisi
nf the ruthless energy of Kitchener Ills
ovperlonee, amassed on many battle
Melds the whole world over, will he
greatly missed In the Allies' councils. '
For us It Is a favorable omen of fate, a
new rav of hope In our heavy time nf ,
trial" ' '
HUGHES FACES CAMERA MEN.
Illsiiiiiilnls 'I'heiii In Horning, lint
llnierues inlnlil I. liter.
W esiltvc.TON, June Associate Jus
tice Hughes, whose expressed wish 10
keep clear of anything that might sivor
of political activity has been rejected
by the public generally, found himself
besieged by photographers to-day, who
were Intent on securing snapshot of
him.
IHscovering that the JiMI.e Is In the
lml.lt of beginning the day with a wilk
about ! o'clock, th" photographers
piaiin. ' ''' "'.'' . .' '."',''.'.' '..
trance or Hie reu nouse 01 nixieeniu
st eetand waited Hut Justice Hughes
did not em-rae. As It happened. II was
' 0. of the few days that he decided not'
to take his morning walk.
The' patience of the camera men 1
: awakened the sympathy of the Justice's
'secietarv. who finally Informed them
that the Jurist had postponed the walk
until the afternoon. The photographers
1 returned to the watch early, rind this
time
11, u ere sncf essrol. Justice.
Hughes f.'icid
ninlnbly, and
the batleiy of cameras
went off 011 Ills dally
j Jaunt,
j War Mcilnl f"r llrnoUe lloniiell,
' Sprdnl I nhtr Drspntrh In Tut! Sis,
PeniH, June s -Among tnose rlec.
. .e,l this morning at the ceremony at
1..IIIS. .1 11 II H n -.iiiii'iiK lllive ore-
or'
the Hotel des lliv.lllilis was iiiiiokh
ltontiell of llrtxiklyn. who leielied the
military medal und the war cross.
. ... '
G. 0. P. CLEARS
DECK FOR QUICK
ACTION TO-DAY
Itoutine Disposed Of in Two
Short Sessions Dele
gates Wake Up.
SITOfAGK FAVOR KD:
DKPKW JOKES BRYAN
Chicago, June I. The Republican na
tional convention In two short sessions
to-day rid Itself of routine business and
cleared the way for the nomination of
a candidate for President.
At the mornlns; session, lasting two
hours. It made Senator Harding of Ohio
permanent chairman, adopted rules, ap
proved the action of the national com
mittee In credentials disputes and heard
speeches from Chauncey M. Depew of
New York, Uncle Joo Cannon of 1111
nols and United States Senator Itor.ih
of Idaho.
At the nfternoon session, lasting an
hour and a half. It adopted the plat-
. -
f''"n. which Included approval of woman
Dusmess oi me .1101-110 re.ri.iiii
Presidential candidate.
I.ntr Crllliiir to Work.
"His"'lf ImmHsT IHHEIHI. ur"-TiivtmnnV
convention are n apt to be as tardy as
sihoolboys 111 the morning The gen-
ticmen of this national assembly are no
,,Xn iiton to this nile. This morning
tl.ey delayed and dawdled and were slow As the factions for and against nomlnat
atid sluggish in settling down to work, dig lioosevelt were still wrestling In P'l
Tiie convention was due to meet at 11 vate the Progressives took their cne
M The galleries were filled with from the woman and sang and cheered
visitors 'ong before this hour and long for forty-live minutes while waiting for
befnrw the delegates were In their seats. , the gavel to drop
It was stui raining, a com, winu unven
- ilu that chilled the mind as well as the
iiilv This unseasonable storm, which
fur three davs. has done as
lias lasted for three days, has done as
much as anything . be perhaps to deaden I
Hie pli'tnie'MUe and dramatic side of the
onventlon.
High up In their suspended cage on
the south wall of the Coliseum the bands-
men labored gallantly to arouse tho en-
thusin-m which was so lacking In the
llrst day's session. It was a neitly ami
'.... . ;.,.., ,..a l,,,l I.lttln was
. I..-1, lrn,,.mlll..l
Instructions. Theie
l.een t nies n national convenuonr
..... . .... - -, . ,, hn. .
siraoie. 1. .... ,,,',,,'
tl,..lr ...rt v t es are regulated by the
"-W-IH w,ch )U,hra on or off a ,
r,.,. i.,,ht Hht
At the outset they were pwmltte.l to
"me;ir ,,7Vo,,!:.,c;:!d,,,0l.he
I oMHot. ai.. t,l..l a few pieces that
i,vo nver failed 111 times past to ex
split In Hny Suite I'rund.
1. in., minutes i,ased and the heavy
ra( of ..vnator Harding s gavei was noi
,....- nuou of Montana and other
Republican llooseieu trailers, 1 nrv cm
the air with their lists, stamped their
feet onon the tloor and gave every sign
nf gentlemen In perturbation. Over In
the Ohio crowd oov. .nci an 01 .h.iss.i
chusetts was the centte of a group of
rtMegales who seemed lo be beseeching
him for Information. There Is division
and dissension lu the Massachusetts
crowd. The same Is true of the Ohio
folks. Some son of yeast Is wnrkltu;
In these and other delegatlojis. Nobody
knows .vet how tne nreaii win
rise,
One cause for tne ueiay 111 caning me
morning session to order wa the meet
llig of the big cominltlees resolutions,
lulcs, permanent organization In these
committees the real work of the con
veiitlou, ;rlde from efforts for harmony
and candidate picking, was being done.
Outside of the Coliseum also, In tin
Michigan I'.oiilevard hotels, conferences
were held In a desper.Ho elfort to patch
up peace
AS Oil I lit lll"l on... me t-m i ,i hi it iio.i
..... ...,tlon hall of the best known
in" " ... . . , .
men In the Iti-pub! can parly failed to
produce a rlpplo of ap ilause Senator
Penrose of Pem.sy vanla stalked down
the main aisle at the head of his Key-
stone gioup, but not a single pair of
hands clapped together, and not . a single
voice was talsed In greeting. mv, Mr.
Call of Massachusetts, Senator Lodge or
Senator Hemenwny of Indiana, Jim
Watson nf the lloosier jstaie an or tlie
lU'im ! r ngiiie.-- i"n "
In
former years found the delegates cold
this morning.
Upon the speakers stage there was
bustle ntid stir of preparation, William
S. Hennft or .ew 1 r., ine new par ia -
.nentarlaii "f the llepubllcaii convention,
sal with hip full of documents mid
. I.. C... ,.1,1 tttnarm unu,...l.,
! """Vr. .. . . I T.....V. "I ,
lunew .111. iieiiu., i.i. ii. n ...io.it.ir .11,
Conffnurti on Jt'ourtA I'uae,
T. R. IS NEARLY
NOMINATED BY
BULL MOOSE
Stampede to Reat G. 0. P.
Action A vetted Only by
Frantic Appeals.
ROOSEVELT'S CLOSE
FRIENDS WIN DELAY
OmrAuo, June t. After scenes .1' wild
excitement the Progressives adjourn-d
their convention this evening to awa t
the result of a conference with the Itu
publicans. Tho Piogresslves had adopt
ed a reolutlon Inviting the Republican
convention to appoint a committee to
confer with a similar committee of their
own.
Thl wa done only after a heated de
bate, In which Victor Murdock, Prof.
Albert Ilushncll Hart and other radicals
In the convention had urged the dele
gates to go ahead and nominate Col.
Hoosevelt. Glfford Plnchot, James II.
Uarfleld and other personal friends of
Col. !tooevelt succeeded, however. In
getting through such a motion, follow
ing the reading of Col Itoosevclt's tele
gram to National Committeeman Jack
son, j
The announcement that the Invitation
thus extendi d had Is'en accepted b the
Republicans came dramatically as 'he
delegates were leaving their seats, the
convention having been adjourned until
s P. M It was greeted with cheers and
the convention wa hastll) reassembled
in order that a motion might go through
authorizing the chairman to appoint the
conferen e committee to meet the lle
publlcm. This having been done the
convention adjourn, d .main until S
P. M.. the understanding beln. however,
that if there was no teport then from
the eolifeienei committee the convention
would be futther adjourned until to-1
morrow morning. j
SatUC Hint Ch re re it 4.1 Minutes.
A woman In white
th.rd gallery nf the
'limbed Into the
Auditorium nl 2
o'clock this afternoon and sang through
a megaphone to the delegates below her.
mmim .iai -aenuseus. iu.ini u mr
heat of yest.rdays
stiatlon. look the lea,
ance Its stormciail (
Koo-eveu iieoioo-
I In the perform-
ance us stormciail delegates ms'cneu
in singing to the air of
Hody :
joiin i,ro 11 s
It won! -top rain ng till we nomlnite
T. It,
.nd wu'll do that to-diy
"ivki wow ow, whlskee. wee wee,"
roared California In reply C.eorgla.
matching to the stage with its banner.
na-i a new song, patterned arter "way
Down In Ceorgla" nn.l dedicated to the
Colonel Tim delegntrn sat g .
We're from Old Ueoigla,
Ills mother'H hnine.
We stand for TeiLly and him alone.
Alone.
All on r (ieorgln both near and far.
Tbeio Is only one cull and that's T
It.
I, Ike n Cluirli Choir.
A tin )i t (hit (Indri-'Tiiu h-a-. n ilmnn
,,,,,. The combined o.ces soun-led
I like a church choir. everybody cLc
stopped to listen Then Arizona started
a 1 bant heard for the tlist time.
We won't take Hughes, we won't take
a banner proclaiming
"Irn u .. 1 ii'.tf.tti ii, firn . ti
.,i ,.,, ,i..,.. .
..,f lmlo1 u. MV lioosevelt,
If not- (Kion NICHT
The upper galleries, virtually empty
yesterday, were lllllng. The rest of the
Audlrorliini was crowded. Flags wew
tossing every whole I low 11 the centre
aisle a broom sticking through a banner
warned the Moose
"No more Judges or professors for m
We want Teddy "
The Teddy mania was misting Us Put
tons aeltill. 1 (alleluias. uiillLh .md die. r-
wtr(1 jumidd. About th ily solemn
person in view was S. M. Ilarl yi stenlay's
Human Drum, whoso holy Jumping was
a t, miiip of the nliiety-sl minute ex.
,,1011111. Tilt: HP reporter aked Mr.
.;;,, why he wast. 1 In mote He could
,,,.. .,nt to his throat led explain h
; :irigii:iKe that his loee and his legs
were so Intimately related that when the
one failed the other did too.
Ilr-nii 'id n Clirrr
William J Hryan got .1 client when lie
took a e,it near the Kentucky st.ind.t.d
Mianwlille a group of Ic-nleis on the
singe had been try dig to sipielch before
th session started the iinipo..,. of the
radicals to nominate Roosevelt tight
away.
Ileorge W Perkins wis beseeching
them to wail John M Patker of
I.i iilslann- Hie Colonel's It st at Puss
Chrlstlim some time ago 'vns for going
ii lit ,1.1 and making the nominating speech
this nfternoon liov. lilt. tin Johnson,
original':.' of the same mind, was won
oxer to the Perkins side.
"Let's wall," he wild. "1 am nut will
lug to he responsible for destrnylng Mr.
Roosevelt's chance for tne Republican
nomination "
Victor Murdoch, the national chairman,
was obdurate. Mr Pet kins sent tho
State chairmen sciiirylng back to their
delegations tn plead with them not to
go ahead with T. It. lo-dav.
l Jlia 1 1111 1 00 vi 1 1 1 1 . 1 1 wits .0 oroer
. ,r p ,vaH riiye. ,,y 1P Itl.v. Will.tm
I c.oop(.r, Theo.o. M Joslln
. Mihi,.,,. chnlniian of the credentials
. ' - ,. .......
rommlttee. leported no contesting del...
gates For tlm peimanent orgaulallon
Contbiufd on Srconrf Pag.
HARMONY CONFEREES WHO ARE
REPRESENTING THE TWO PARTIES
CHICAGO, June 8. Following are the members of the harmony con
fcrence committees appointed to-tlny by tho Republican and Pro
gressive conventions:
REPUBLICANS.
REED SMOOT, United States Sen
ntor from Utah.
W. MURRAY CRANE of Massa
chusetts, ex-Governor and for
mer United States Senator.
WILLIAM E. BORAH. United
States Senator from Idaho.
NICHOLAS MURRAY BUTLER
of New York, president of Co
lumbia University.
A. R. JOHNSON of Ohio, cx
Unitcd States Representative.
T. R. MAY GO WEST
IF G. 0, P. INVITES
Willinr lo Forget Pust Differ
ences for "the Safety of
Our Country."
11 KIM. Y ATTACKS WILSON"
Cittcynn, June . Col Roosevelt has
sent the following telegram In reply to
the p;ea of William P Jackson. Hi-publl.
can National Committee man for Marj'
laud, to Kii.iii to Chlcatto:
The Hon William P. Jackson, Republi
can IIeadiUarters, Chicago, 111.
In answer to your telegram I can
on).- say that the matter lies with the
Republican convention, and that If the
convention desires me to addtess It
I shall be glad lo do so.
I very earnestly hope that the Re
publicans and Progressive- assembled
at Chicago will keep steadily In mind
the gravity of this crisis not only for
America but for the world, and tho
need that their action In dignity, fore
sight and patriotism shall rise level
to the crisis.
I hope that tnelr aim will be not
merely tn nominate a man who can
h elected next November but a man
of such power, character, steadfast
cojielctlon and proved ability that If
electisl he will again place this na
tion where It belongs by making It
true to Itself and therefore true to
all mankind.
MtiicLa Ihr President.
President Wilson, however amiable
h.s Intentions, has rendend tn this
people the most evil service that can
be rendered to a great democracy by
Its eho-ei. leader, lie has dulled the
national conscience and relaxed the
spring of lofty national motive by
teaching our people to accept high
sou. dim., words ns the offset and
atoneme'it for shabbc deeds, ami to
use words walch mean nothing In or
der to draw all meaning from those
which have a meaning
It will be no eay task to rouse the
austere self-respect which has been
lulled to slumber by these means To
this ta-k we should bend our united
etieighs In the splilt of Washington
and Lincoln the splilt of genuine dem
01 Mtlc !e.iier.h!p. the splilt which sets
the standard lu which the n ttlon ought
to tle, arid then with conlident hope
..li-.al.s to the soul of the people so
that thiy may In fact support Hp.
stiindaid thus ra'sed.
The differences that have divided
not merely Reiildlcat.s and Progres
s'ves I, ut (.otl Americans of all shades
of isil'tlcnl belief from one another
in the past sm into nothing when
compared with the Issues now de
manding decision, for these issues are
1 1'.al to the national life.
Issues of nirrleniisio.
Tney nie t issues of a unified
Am. . Iciuilsm and of tiatlotul re
piredniss. If we an. not all ol us
Americans, and nothing ce, scorning
to divide along lln, of section or
cr.'id or of iittlonal origin, then the
nation itself w crumble into dust
If we aie not thoroughly prep.ind.
If we hay,, not developed a strength
which respects the rights of others,
but which is also ready to enforce
fiom others respect for Its own rights,
then sooner or later we shall have to
submit to the will of an alien con
uueror. These nuestioiis ar md n the
iialmi of abstract thought They
must he taken out of the world of
cloudy promise and vague phrasing
into the woild of performance and of
fact They are to-day in concrete
fiiin hefoii. you and your fellows for
d.clslou. For two yeirs in the face
of the awful world cataclysm this n.i
th. 11 stood supine and h.lp'ess and has
nil In the smallest degree prepared
Itself to ward off the danger
(, I'.icuse fur Piisl Inaction,
o piomlse, no excuse now mole In
those responsible for this Inaction Is
entitled lo se.lous consideration. R
1 tnr you and your nssocl.i'cs to show
Hie people that they hive a worthy
iilti rn.itive to which to turn
'I'm piofcsslonnl Herman Americans,
a. ting through various agencies, In
I'hul'ng so-called I lei man American
allinnc. s, are .it this moment serving
indli e on the members of your con
veiilion that your action must be taken
with a view to the Interests not of the
Fluted Stales but of llermatiy, and of
tl.it section of Hie Hcrmvi Anietlcan
vote which Is iintl-Anier'can tn the
core. I believe with all n.y heart that
thii action of these sinister profes.
slouil 1 iennan Americans will be re
piidlnted with angry contempt by the
gn si mass of our fellow citizens who
nie in whole or III part of (leimaii
bl 1. and who are, as ( well know,
iinsill passed lu rugwd and whole
smiled Ann rlc.iulsni by anv other cltl.
zi ns of our bind.
Hut the professional Herman Amer
icans are seeking to terrorlzn your
convention; for they wish tn elect next
November a man who shall not be In
good faith an American President, but
the ylceiny of a foreign ( loveriiment.
It Is lor your convention In emphatic
fashion to repudiate them. This can
be done In effective manner nnly If
PROGRESSIVES.
GEORGE W. PERKINS of New
York, chairman Progressive Na
tional Committee.
HIRAM JOHNSON, Governor of
California.
HORACE WILKINSON of New
York, banker and capitalist of
Syracuse.
CHARLES J. BONAPARTE of
Maryland, Attorney-General un
der Roosevelt.
JOHN M. PARKER of Louisiana,
prominent luwycr and Proirrcs
sive leader.
COLONEL'S MESSAGE
SEEN AS ULTIMATUM
Repii'ilii'itus niifl Hughes Must
Repudinfc Oerninn Ameri
can Allinnee.
SILKXT OX NOMINATION
Otstkr Pat, I.. I., June -The fo.
lowing are the only developments that
eari Is? ,t.lt(., . ,n ,h(. no1ttcn1
situation as R affects Col, Roosevelt or
Is affected by him:
Col, Roo.evelt is still of the opinion
that he will not go to Chicago That
was his Intention as late as 10 o'clock
to-night.
Ho Is making no comment on the pos
sible nomination of Justice Hughes by
the Republicans or the probable nomlna.
Hon of himself by the Progressives.
He Is keeping silent regarding what
his attitude would lie In such events.
Rut there Is a view taken here of the
situation which is more pregnant with
trouble than the facts mentioned would
Indicate This view Is that Col. ltnose.
volt's reply to the Invitation of Republi
can National Committeeman Jackson
asking him to address the Republican
convention Is on ultimatum that the
Republicans must repudiate once and for
ail the (.erm.m American Alliance and
the Jlniressjonnl Herman Arrerlcan.
The Colonel', friends say that 'het
Is where Justice Hughes Is Imolv-d. for
the Herman American Alliance has made i
him Its avowed candidate and has told
this to the Republicans In no unieitalo
terms
Thriefore. Is the reasoning here, unless
the Republicans take a firm stand ami
' nne out strongly against the Herman
An ei scan Alliance und unbss Justice
HiiK'ies does his share of the repudiating .
I too, then Col. Roosevelt cannot fall to ,
' consider Hughes as the candid ite of the
i "sinister, professional (Jcrn.au Amer
icans," as a candidate who is cognizant
lot this supirt und who accepts It
' kliovvltik' it to lis aupli Ati.l If the Re
'publicans nominate Hughes without re
moving the taint of such an alllllatioh
the view here Is that the danger of a
third ticket looms greater and greater.
( ol. Rooseyelt was glad of the oppor-1 would be acceptable to the Progressive delegates. Both committees it
lunlty he got to make the statement to, . . . , ,, . . "--
Mr. Jackson to-day. and he jumped at i appeared, are approaching the point at issue gradually and in a reason
it with alertness and care. He is pleased, nble frame of mind.
It Is believed, over the statement, and Is
sati'Med that It had a good effeei. Ills
IliUUnatits at the other end of the direct
telephone wire nt the Hl.icketone Hotel
In Chicago have probably told blm all
about that.
Although the statement was an ap
ical for harmony, yet its tone was so in
ibtant lu the matter of wiping out Hie
Human American Influences at wotk i
that the Republicans must respond to j
the Colonel's ihniands or the Progres. I
s.ves will put a third ticket In the Held ,
The Pingiesslves may name a tliket
anyway, and Col. lioosevelt riallics only
mo will that there are tunny lu the I
Hull Moose convention who hise got!
lnyoiiil tne stnge wheie he could control
them, his friends assert.
It the conservatives In Hie Piogrelii
.M.ected n oionei to go to
.'.imp
..i.i i . ... i...'.i ,..,.u in
. un iih'i on, ij i."i.i -ii' - - ...
c'lecl. lliey aie uoomeii o
Disappoint -
irent. it Is believed, lor there
il.catlons late to-night that i
yell, hiving put off going lo
thus far. will see the light
eie in- ,
Chicago!
through
w Ii limit leaving Sagamore lllil
an opposite natuie there w plenty of!
ii a... ....... 'rl.iu ...II ..... i....,
For those who sought Indications of
uieoi an u.i. i"ii. . in" ...y; iiiKiie-i.
beiti as full of runiois to-day as the bay 1 , , , , . . , . . . .
is of .lams i-a ily in the day the .... ' Johnson was asked if a decision had been reached, lie re
port was tepe.itedly heard that col peateil: "We have all agreed to sav nothing further than that "
lioosevelt was packing up for Chicago 1
n.iii ids secretary, Walter Hayes, obliged
the cm respondents by making out a IM
of the newspaper men who wanted ,.c-
i ininodatloiis on the same Halt, that the
Colonel would take.
Rut night fell and midnight ap-
Pioached and Col. Roosevelt was still ""' e-.iiu.iie-u u uiso-iiiou iu iiiiuinii; juui i in not demand the noinina
at home Secretary Hayes, with a cot tion of Roosevelt as the only candidate upon which thev would treat for
it"er inlVenffi They did not veto Hughes, nor did they say ,ht t,.y ,,!
when the Colonel was talking to c.isiig,.
Pet kins or some other
such ,n Hon Is taken lis to enalile the
Republicans, Progressives, I letnocrats
who an true to the principles nf An
drew Jackson, and, In short, all loyal
AmeiiiafiJ to Join In the .ffort tn teach
th, goal we all have In view
Can we not, foi getting past illflei
! ences, now join for the snfety and
honor of our country tn enforce the
policies of genuine Ami'i Icaulsin and
l genuine piepaiedness'.' Surely we can
.mural to act lu accordance with the
; words of Abraham Lincoln when he
said. "M'iy not all having a cimniou
I ,,,i..i-..ui r..i'iiilin in n common effoit to
save our common country'? May we
nsk those who have not differed with
us to Join In the same .-plrit towaul
lln.se who have?
As far as'my own soul is known to
n.e, It Is lu this name spirit that at
this time I make my appeal to tho
Republicans and Progressives assem
bled at Chicago.
TllttopotiK RnosKVKt.T
.VI I. ANTIC CITV TH.tlNM.
.1. r.ev I'rulr.ll Mnrnllirf lltples ihmv
truves Liberty HI 5 A week 'bi , I tiller
(rain- 3:30 I' M, week d.i), I I' M .-.its.
Ill A M , Zi3i P. -M SunUn). All lul. lu
mluulei earlier from W, llrtt It. alc,
Lodge, Wood, Goethals
sented in "Harmony"
Result Conferees
Conventions This
Says G. O. P.
JURIST'S NAME NOT
OF A POSSIBLE REUNION CANDIDATE
Leaders Look to T. R. to Stop Moose Stampede for
Third Ticket and to Accept the Justice if He Is
Named and Then Declares Himself Un
equivocally and Strongly for
"Americanism."
CHICAGO, June 'J (2 A. M.). Committees from the Republican and
Profj-ressivc conventions were engaged this morning in a final effort to
harmonize the differences of the two parties and to nftree upon a common
Presidential candidate.
The harmony conference adj'ourncd at 1 15 o'clock this morning
without having reached nny decision. The conferees will report progress
to both conventions to-day and will ask for time for further conferences.
This does not necessarily mean that there will be no balloting for Presi
dent in the Republican convention to-day. The likelihood is that there
will be at least two ballots, but the conferences are likely to delay a choice
until to-morrow.
The balloting will indicate how the lines are drawn and will give
the conferees ground on which to continue their deliberations. The most
important result thus far from the conference is the cordial spirit that
it has developed. This spirit, in the opinion of some of the conferees,
promise further harmonious developments if another meeting is held.
Roosevelt's Name Discussed.
The Progressives presented the name of Col. Roosevelt at the begin
ning of the conference and stood by it until the end. Other names were
talked over, however, including Hughes, Root, burton and Weeks. It was
reported in reliable quarters that the Progressives suggested informally
the names of Gen. Leonard Wood, Gen. George W. Goethals, Senator
l.mlgv of Massachusetts and Senator Borah of Idaho. Progressive lead
ers, however, denied afterward that these names had been put forwanl
with any dctinitcness us acceptable to the Progressives. The Bull
.Moosers, it was insisted, had continued to stand for Roosevelt. Both
committees' assured each other that they spoke merely as individuals and
could not commit the delegates.
The Hughes followers will fight any attempt tu adjourn over till
to-morrow.
The first official word from the conference came about two hour.-t
after the committee had met. One of the Republican committeemen
came downstairs in the City Club and announced that the work of the
conferees was progressing Mowly but satisfactorily. He said that th
Progressive committeemen had manifested an intention to mediate.
This, it was explained, did not mean that the name of Col. Roose
velt was barred or that the Progressives hud insisted that Roosevelt alone
Three Names Proposed.
It was learned that the Progressives had so far shown an attitude of
conciliation as to propose three names which would be acceptable to
them. They were, in the order named, Henry Cabot Lodge, Major-Gen.
Leonard Wood and Major-Gen. George W. Goethals. Lodge and Wood
are Republicans, Goethals is Progressive.
George R. Sheldon of New York left the Chicago Club at 1J:30
A. M. after talking with members of the Republican-Progressive peace
conference. Mr. Sheldon understood that the name of Henry Cabot
Lodge, United States Senator from Massachusetts, was in high favor on
both sides. Proposed by the Progressive conferees as a candidate who
would lie acceptable to Col. Roosevelt, Mr. Lodge, it is understood, i
1 almost equally acceptable to the
. . .. . .. . ..
i iiiiiiiiun lllflT rill, two nin'llnu ll'.rn
i '
possum1 seiccuun.
irum JJ-.-on of California, one of the conferees, after leav-
ing the conference said: "We have had a long und amicable talk We
have agreed to report the result of
tions to-morrow morning. We have
f -l it
Did Not Veto Hughes, gays Borah.
"To-night's conference has resulted in no change in the situation "
said henator Horah at the conclusion
. . .. ., . .. ... .
accept nun. In my opinion the Republican convention will proceed tn u
nomination to-day in accordance witli plans already perfected." .
The conference at the Chicago Club ended tit 1 :V A. M. Senator
Borah was .spokesman for the Republicans, and Gov. Johnson for the
Progressives. They said the conferees would meet again to-night. It
was intimated by Mr. Borah that as the Republican convention probably
would have acted by that time the meeting would be purely perfunctory.
The move for harmony came at the close of the day which hud seep
further developments indicating the strength of the movement to nominate
Associate Justice Charles K. Hughes in the Republican convention and
when tho gathering at the Coliseum adjourned for the night it was with
the understanding that the nominating speeches would begin at 11 o'clock
to-day and that the balloting for President would come upon their
conclusion.
Predict Nomination of Hughes.
At least one ballot for President will be taken to-day mid thu
Hughes people probubly will attempt to prevent an adjournment in th
hope of ending the contest to-night. , , ,
Tho nomination of Justice Hughes seems us certain ns anything can
be tinner the circumstances. The favorite sons fiVvc beep unable to agree
on a single candidate as ngninst the jurist and (totjht exists whether "they
will be able to hold their strength against him aftejikttp. 'liis,t ballot.
Mr. Hughes's maiiageiK are predicting that he' will iro nominated by
I at least the third ballot and possibly on the hecond. They insist that hei
Said to Have Been Pre
Session, but Without
to Report to the Two
Moming Borah
Will Proceed.
BARRED IN TALK
Republicans. It
was Mr. Sheldon's
,in.... I .1.. . . .
" ------ . ..mi i.uuge was -i
our delibrations to the two conven-
agreed in the meantime to sav noth
of the conference. "The Protrres
... , . , , , , -,'"
