The Herald NN hat WilT R.a o"'
-o gvngo the futllete c- What\Uall/the/ o'- in
mint ofin the actlltes of- \\\141 fII big gune are doing Is b'
the delegates W 3f h E Ing report d ' I t.1ful
At Chicago TH --HRLDI Tfl ih Herald
NO. 3521. WEATHER-LOCAL SHOWERS. _ __WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1916.ON CET
RUSSIANS BLOW
WIDE BREACH IN
AUSTRIAN LINE
Lemberg and Left Wing of
Gen. Linzinger's Army Said
to Be in Danger.
CZAR'S MEN TAKE LUTZK
Troops Cross Rivers Ikva and
Styr and Continue Offen
sive with Vengeance.
ENEMY'S FRONT SMASHED HARD
Eleven Thousand Additional Soldiers
and Fifty-eight Officers Cap
tured During Fighting.
Spsdal to 'Te Washington HmI
Petrograd. June F.-Russia's tremendous
drive against the AustrIan forces along
a far-flung battle line of more than 20
miles continues with a vengeance.
The district and town of Lutzk and also
many points on the line of the river lks a
and Styr were captured by the Czars
troops on Tuesday. according to an om
cial statement issued tonight. The Rus
stan soldiers have crossed the rivers and
are continuing their offensive.
In Galicia, on the lower StrrYpa. the
Russians stormed the Austrian positions
on the Trzybouhovsy-Yazlovetz front and
are now close to the Strypa.
In addition to the 0000 prisoners pre
viously recorded. the Russians have now
captured fifty-eight officers and 1I00O
men, together with a large number of
machine guns.
As a result of the fighting in Volhynia
and Galicia. an important victory has
been crowned by the smashing of the
enemy's front to a great depth.
According to details supplementing the
official reports of the Russian success.
the artillery preparation by which the
Russians cleared the path for the infan
try surpassed in intensity all previous
efforts of their gunners.
A well-informed military critic says:
"A H vew the rr-*_trhrn rrmnes- are on
the eve of general retreat. and -imberg
Is in great strategic danger. A breach
100 miles wide has been blown in the
Austrian front. involving the left wing
:,f Gen. Linzinger's army group, which
consisted of from eighteen to twenty di
visions.
Germans Continue
Verdun Assaults
Prepare for Attack on Fort De.
Thiaumont-Paris Admits
Fall of Fort Vaux.
(y the Interuattomal News Serviee.)
Paris. June t.-The capture by the Ger
mare of the shattered Fort Vaux was of
ficially admitted today by the French
war office.
The Germans are now impetuously at
tacking the French positions around
Thiaumont Farm, preparatory,. apparent
ly. to an assault on Fort De Thiaumont.
about three miles west of Fort Vaux.
Nothing is yet known of the fate of
Gen Raynal and his garrison. who for
five days defended the fort without sup
plies or communication. against the Ger
man assault. Doubtless all are killed
or captured.
Italy Checks Austrians.
Rome. June 8.-Semi-oMcial assurance
was given to the correspondent of the
Sun News Service today that the mer
ace of an Austrian invasion had now
been averted since the occupation of
'Monte Cengio. The Austrians are unable
to debouch in the valleys, where they are
mowed down by Italian machine guns,
while the Austrian infantry attacks are
-hecked by the Italian artillery.
"Daylight Saving" Bill Passed.
Paris. June 8.-The "Daylight Saving"
bill was passed today. The clocks will
be advanced one hour on June 14, until
Dctober 1.
The Washington Heral
Donations For Pre
Here is an opportunity for you
paredness parade Ji'ne 34 the biggesi
any city.
Fill out the blank below and mai
Washington Herald, together with:
will be acknowledged and forwarde
treasurer of the committee in charge
L.....................,
of .....................
enclose $.........to hel
Washington's preparedness.
G. 0. P. Platfori
With America
Bitterly A
Senator Lodge, Chief Builder,
ciples Will Satisfy Roo
Foreign and Mexicai
Suffrage Pla
lay %un %e,
Chicago, June 8.-The party plati
Republican National Convention carriq
subject that has been given prominence
velt.
President Wilson's foreign policy is
by inference that the administration ha!
tions of neutrality as regards Europe
President Wilson's Mexican policy
tion is conveyed that the trouble south
intervention.
Preparednesa Demianded. 4
The platform is emphatic in denanling
a big army and a big navv together with
ample reserves for use in case of trouble.
An equal suffrage plank appears In the
plat-form. It favors the -NtenA-in of the
suffrage to women hut recognizes "the
right of each State to settle this ques
tion for itself.
The tariff plank is drawn along on
ventional lines.
Senator Lodge. the chief platform
maker. is satisfied that the Republi-an
declaration of principles vil ibe entirely
satisfactory to Mr. R- osevelt. Before
coming to Chicag- Mr. Idge-conferre,l
Nith the former President and in drafting
the platform Mr. Lodge had the as.
sistance of Senator Rorah. who epoaks
the language of the Progressives.
Moose tiive (. k.
The platform is apprve In the mai
by Progressive leaders. They are a little
disappointel that a plank for enforces.
military serv- nas not adopted, ht
agree with the regulars that the econtry
Is not ready for the cons,-riptie- sstem.
OnIy perfunctory opposItIon ti the plat
form was offered in committee and in
the convention. In committee P. F.
Gauss, of Wisconsin, a I.Follette. leader.
proposed substitutes for every plank rec
ommended by the subcommittee of which
Mr. Lodge was chairrnan. He followed
a like course on the floor of the con
vention. hutt was honled over in every
vote.
Delegate Gauss. of Wisconsin. was the
only one of the forty-eight members
present to 'ate for a plank proposed by
Mr. Gauss that recommended an embargo
CONTINT'D ON PAGE1 FOUR.
Consulate Burned
By Mexican Mob
Town of Santa Barbara Also
Raided and Looted
by Bandits.
IBy International News Service.)
El Paso, June .-Gen. George Bell.
Jr.. military commander here. was in
formed tonight that a mob of citizens
and Carranza soldiers attacked the
consulate in Chihiahui. The report
states the building was burned. Oither
details are lacking.
Confirmation was obtained here to
night through officials of the Mines
Company of America that the town of
Santa Larbara, in Chihuahua. wac
raided and looted by handits on Mon
day. Santa Barbara is twenty-live
miles Couth of Parral. The largest
properties of the Mines Company of
America are located just eight miles
from this point.
Bulgarian Port Stormed.
London, June C-The Russian Black
Sea fleet bombarded the Vulgarian port
of Burgas on Saturday, destroying a
German submarine works, says a Cen
tral News dispatch from Bucharest to
day.
Flag Burner's Sanity Questioned.
New York, June 8.-A descendant of
Miles Standish was sent today to Belle
vue's psycopathic ward for a sanity test.
He is Ned Ames, master of ceremonies
at the burning of the American flag by
Bouck White' Social Revolutioniste
td Will Receive
paredness Parade Fund
to aid in making Washington's pre
:and most spectacular yet staged by
it to The Preparedness Editor, The
rour contribution, and the donation
d prdmptly to Rudolph Kau ffmann,
p defray the expenses os
parade.I
n Adopted,
t as Keynote,
rraigns Wilson
Believes Declaration of Prin
sevelt-Administration's
i Policies Attacked.
ik Stays In.
sa llerslce.i
orm of 1916 as adopted today by the
s two chapters on "Americanism." a
n recent addresses by Theodore Roose
bitterly arraigned, and the charge made
not been as "straight" in its protesta
s has been represented.
is severely condemned and an intima
f the border can be remedied only by
Pledges in Platform
Of Republican Party
'Protection of American rights:
", e %ilI enforce the protection
of ever' imericam clitre. in all
rights cured to him by the
('on, talion. trestles and the
law of nationn. at 'ene and
abroad, by land nod men..
Foreign relations: "FI'rm. eon
aistent and courageous forelgn
PolilY. Itmintenance of honeat
neutrality beineen Europeam bel
Ilgerents, with insistence upon
American right^ without fear or
ftaor. Establishment of "orld
court to settle international dis
puten."
Mexico: "W"e promise to our
citiven. on rnd near our harder.
and to those in Mexico. adequate
mod aboluIte protecton of 11%e.,
liherty and property."
ilonroe toctrime: "l e reaffirm
our approval and declare its
niatensnce essential to the
achieement of Its manifest des
tin,.
Philippinez "We accept the
responatiiity of the islands as a
duty to etvilisation and renew
u e a tols An
the task half done %ould injure
our prestige among aatloan."
Protectit n of the country:
"Adequate mational defense. .tuf
ficient nad effectise regular
mrmy, with -provision for ample
drilled and discipliaed reserses.
A navy No strong that no enemy
cn gmain command of the sea and
land on either our Easterm or
Wenterm coast."
Tariff; ",Protection to American
industries, and labor adjusted to
preveNt undue exactions by
trusta. and the creatton of a tar
itr commission. We do uat regard
an anti-dumping provision am
adequate substitute."
Merchant marine, " P r I i a t e
ow.nerahip and upbuilding by
golernment aid that will give
ships whick can he requisitiomed
In emergency."
til service reform: "En
forcement of eliil service low
and reorganization along lime. of
effliiency and economy."
Labor laIwa. Enforcement of
Federal inbor protection laws.
Enactment and rigid enforce:
ment of child-labor lawi enmet
ment of generous worksmem's
compensation lnw; protection of
labor from dangers incident to
industry."
Suffrage: "Extension of auf
frage to 1%omlen, recognizing the
right of each State to settle the
question for itself."
T. R. Boomers Ask
Hughes to Quit
(By the International News Service.)
Chicago, June S.-Roosevelt boosters
from the South joined today in dispatch
img the following telegram to Justice
Hughes:
The Roosevelt Non-Partisan Boosters'
League, of the South. have opened head
quarters in Chicago to fight for the
nomination of America's strongest man,
who is also the worlds greatest states
man. As American patriots who place
country above party we appeal to you to
he true to the stainless traditions of
the Supreme Court of the United States
by announcing in language which no one
can fail to understand that you will not
accept the nomination for President.
"This action on your part will be ap
plauded by millons who believe that the
supreme bench should be kept above the
trail of politics."
NEW SEA BATTLE HEARD.
British Sqoadron Reported In FIght
W1est of FlushIng.
London. June 8.-Heavy tiring was
heard to the westward of Flushing today.
according to a dispatch transmitted here
by the Amsterdam Telegraaf.
A telegram to the Exchange Telegram
Con'pany from Copenhagen maya that
1seamen report a large British squadron.
including a warship, participated In a
battle, while patrolling the North Sea.
The mailorm did not see any German war.
shIps, but stated that Zeppelin airshIps
were seen to be active in the general di
rection of the reported battle.
?34.2i1-4'T. l.OUIS * RKTURN-.42J
Via Ches. & Ohio Ry. TIeket. on male
June 10 to 13. Ot.. 138 1 st. nw.'
HUGH
WHI
___C
Moose Envoys,
Agree to G. 0.
Republicans
Republican Convention Lis
tens to Draft of Platform
and Hears Old Guard Ora
tors Tune Up for Today.
Sreal to The i.rgV. H-a.
Chicago, June 3 .-The introduc
tion of the draft of the platform and
the speeches in this connection pro
vided the principal features of the
second day of the Republican National
Convention.
Senator Henry Cabot Lodge-tall.
spare and cold--read the draft of the
platfoim. He frequently was inter
rupted by the applause of the galleries
and delegates, when some particularly
striking plank was nailed into place.
The enthusiasm of the day was
aroused, however, by Senator Will
iam E. Borah, of Idaho.
Plead for Equal Sunrage.
Ii. made a fervent plea for w oman suf
frage and incidentally took a few peot
shots at President Wilson and his ad
ministration.
SCnator Borah's refeiene-e to the suf
frage plank was the signal fur an ex
plosive demonstration from the galleries.
where hundreds of women were congre
ated. 1er' Ahrml che.sra .d cr40
drowned out the deep basse. of the male
delegates on th floor below. and the tu
mult fur a few moments rhaled that in
progress at the Bull Moose convention
about a mile distant.
When the resolution adopt-d by the
Progressives ass read, the air was thick
with apprehension, and there was %ery
little enthusiasm. Clearly this was
something the rank and file of delegate-s
had not counted upon, and they did not
know just how to take It There were a
few feeble cheers, but for the most purt
there was a buzz and hum of conversa
tion. as the delegates conferred with each
other as to the probahle outcome of the
mediation offer.
Take' Shot at l1ryan.
During the morning session Chauncey
Depew and Uncle Joe" Cannon enliven
ed the proceedings with characteristic
speeches, thoroughly impregnated with
the brand of humor affected by these two
veteran orators. Mr. Depew, however,
loosed a few shafts. aimed at the Demo
cratic administration. At one point in
particular, he aroused great enthusiasm
by making pointed reference to William
J. Bryan. 'Mr. Bryan was seated in the
press hot and accepted the shot with a
smile.
Throughout the sessiOn there was a
noticeable lack of enthusiasm, the only
exceptions being when the principal
speakers unlimbered their heavy artillery.
It was apparent that the program was
tmre or less cut and dried. The leaders
had settled upon Hughes as the standard
bearer. and the "favorite sons' camps
were in more or less gloom. accepting
without question the word handed down.
All Over but Shoutina.
A few delegations Were grooming their
ichosen speakers for the nominating
speeches tomorrow. but all seemed to
realize that it was all over but the shout
ing. in so far as naming a candidate was
concerned., They tried to shake off their
leg2 thy at various periods during the
session. but the attempts were more or
less feeble. except when the platform
makers came out, and when the barb
was prepared for the Wilson administra
tion.
NEW YORK "L" TRAINS CRASH.
O.e KtIed and Twelve crittleatly
Injured 1in Wreek.
New York. June &.-One person is dead.
twelve persons are in a critical condition
In Lincoln and Lebanon hospitals, and a
score more are suffering from mInor
injuries as a result of a collision between
a crowded ThIrd avenue elevated
train and an empty train standing at the
station at Third avenue and One Hundred
and Forty-ninth street. The boiiision oc
curred at 2:4G o'clock this afternoon.
Frank Kerrigan, motorman of the sec
Ond train, died in Lincoln Hospital as a
rcsult of his injuries.
Maine's Chaplain Honored.
New York, June 8.-Rev. Father John
P. Chidwick, who wasn chaplain of the
battleship Maine at the time she was
blown up in Havana Harbor. has been
elevated to the rank of Monsignor.
I 2.50e S.Philadelphia, *2L25 to Chee
tr 2Wilmington and return. Balti
snore & Ohio day June 11, 7:05 a.
in- ettag. ..rn. d..Asv
ES FIN
N PE A
OMES
After Fight,
P. Conference;
Hear Platform
After Verbal Battles and Fer
vent Oratory, Progressives
Consent to Conference with
G. 0. P. Leaders.
Chicago. June 8-The Progressive
convention marked time in the mat
ter of actual work accomplished to
day. but wrote another red-letter rec
ord in the history of conventions by
the amount of enthusiasm and red
fire exploded.
Every step of the way, from the
time Chairman Robins rapped for or
der at 2 o'clock. until the delibera
tions were adjourned until tomorrow
morning, there were protests, verbal
battles, and flights of fervent oratory
--oratory that at times was so heated
that even the most radical Bull Moos
ers were shocked-and on one occa
sion at least the chair was forced to
issue a sharp reprimand.
larmons Note StrucL.
Fron the start. 1>e printipal isieue b.
fore the convention as he miatter of
harmonizing Its proceedinrs with the RH
publesanv. The harmony ntole nas struck
early in the afteroion b,) James R. Gar
field, of Ohio. when he offeredt a resoIur
i on to appoint a coinrri:to,- to coiif.r
with the Rtepuba-ns i the hol-s that
n nerd mii;ht b. estabihh .1 beta- nl
the t-o ies.sMi. Garnal Se.t his f et
01 a ston -ath, but "ith :he assist
anc., of Itff id Pin'hot, G.-orge W. P i
kins. and other leaders, finally Iravi rs'
its uneen length and succeeded in hav
inc his resolution adoptll.
Victor Murdo, k, th. fiory Nansas.
added much to the tutulenea ,r ith
day. ard at one 1 ri5n ren ! ' % e dt in
for clng the nomiation *f Theodor
Rloosevelt without wailing fr the result
of further attempts at milediation II,
was backed up in I is stand by Go-s..r
irttarn Johr:on. of lftria artl by
Representativo W,. NI, Donald. of
Michigan. It was Mi-Donald "ho i
ceived the reprimand front the ,h1ir
when he shouted.
"Gn to )I-.' lie %bsnuts.
"There is only one iessa;:e n ian
with red blool should send ti those ;e o
ple sTfering to the R pubiscans, '
that is 'go to hell'-and nonirat' .\t
Roosevelt
At 6 o'clock. when adjo -urnment wss'
taken. until later in the evening. th,
tumult was as great as when laitli
first precipitated the fight. The exite
ment had been heightened b a se otidar'
battle over the adoption of the platform
Mr. Perkins moved to have the al-p
tion of the platform tabled until after
the report of the conference onintts-e
had been received, and this met with in
stant opposition. It was not until it
was explained that the convention i-uli
adjourn without taking an,- action what
soever on the platform and then take it
up the next day tinder the order ef new
business that the radicals wer mollifed.
Wannan Ruffrage indored.
The convention draft was read b\ Dean
William Draper Lewis. of the University
of Pennsylvania. It covered substantially
the same ground embodied in the Re
publican platform, with the exception
that the planks of "Americanism" were
much stronger and there was no attempt
to dodge the "hyphenate" issue. A woman
suffrage plank was included in the draft
'Don't tie this convention up.' shrieked
a delegate, but Mr. Perkins onty laughed.
Amid a great deal of confusion Mr.
Pinchot rose fr-om amid the Pennsy
vania delegates and moved that the con
vention adjourn until 8 p. m1. He said
the convention could meet then and ad
journ again, If necessary. This seemed
to meet with the approval of many, hut
there was still great cosnfusion. Finally
Gov'. Johnson jumped up.
"I agree with the motion of the gen
tlemen from Pennsylvania that we do
now adjourn tilt 8 o'clock this evening."
he shouted in a voice that reached the
top gallerIes. Everybody had been ex
Pecting a speech from the governor and
his curt motIon took them by surprise.
But it carried the point. When the ques
tion was put to a vote it was plain that
the ay-es had it.
Austrian Transport Sunk.
Roe Jun 8.-An Austrian transport
wae sunk in Durazzo Bay by an Italian
submarine last n~ght. it was officially atn
nounced todayt.
Lew Week-end and Sunday Exeuraiona.
AL CHOICE
LCE PARLEY
TO AN END
TO PROPOSE JURIST
AT SESSION TODAY;
MOOSE STICK TO T. R.
Both Conventions Expected to Go Ahead
With Nominations Regardless of Conse
quences-Colonel May Refuse to
Head Third Party.
WHITMAN TO PROPOSE JUSTICE
Chicagn, June 9.-The harmony conference between the Republicans
and Progressives adjourned at 1:45 o'dock this morning without having
reached any decision.
4 1i'the V ashinaon Herald's peial I orreapende.
Chicago. June 8.- Charles Evans Hughes, of the Supreme Court of the
United States, will be nominated on the first ballot by the Republicans to
morrow morning. unless all calculations of G. 0. P. leaders go for naught.
Even before the jurist is made the candidate of the Republicans. Theo.
dore Roosevelt will be acclaimed the standard-bearer of the Progresstes.
Tonight there is a question as to whether Col. Rooseselt will accept the
nomination at the hands of his followers. Progressie leaders say he will and
hint that perhaps Justice Hughes aill dcclhne. The Coloncl. for once, main
tains silence.
MEDIATION UNSUCCESSFUL.
The effort at mediation, started by James G. Garfield in the Progressine
convention, apparently had accomplished nothing at a late hour tonight. It
was even hinted that the breach between the two wings of the party had beer
widened.
bl s.eto - n, ~. ' < ' i 0I.' -' . . m i~
n (h . nn
sire to . fTect T -
Hepublican% GlaincI 4 onver
.. N hi- I NI~,
h i~n I.n iii I t -"
HiS:I ." ,, " " -1 . .. . . .-:-,
th\ l' --n.. 1, p- ite
I . at the I'o esis e ,
'so te m - 1 . d w e.' .i.'td.T
T ik an it. in l Tm a .n
thre o 1 ,.-red' it w a i
-phed the Ti:.n'.o'minaA.T.
it 'Ild ;1-: -t r " , 4 1
hil' em iTh. --., m ~ en .. -.. ,,. ' .r .
th plans of the i t l n e s e
nomin fatin: their et , it e hi
An arraIt mmt \a perf- ied oot Paciflsts Become Warlke
b r the New York d, I, 0 Iti.n undir hiI
.\ ioa w: 1l to N w \ 1 I I ..Irk "n I'he ht'-I
rlIt call '-f the sttie, thl g IT *- Ih'
Hugh tmh ho n r of he d . mt e -
place th e the Yri-'-ga'nn nd A tihtam 'IT' -. T1' '-s ~ -
i n the Sti - n th o , . t n t'. h ..t
Grocers Will Close Stores
To Enable Clerks to March
Wholesalers and Retailers to Constitute Interesting Unit in
Preparedness Parade-Pretty Girl Employes of
Department Stores to Take Part.
Wholtesale and re tsi I Oirers inl SI a l:doing oft to a .. n stri '-a ,o m
parts of the city are planing to close than, anything * cc to egmenI h
their -stablshments ntext Wednetsday to day spilrtt eO-. the Iit
allow their employes to marc-h In the pr~ e- .,n~~t. T'a '.!tep'A~
paredness tlaradte. epcsThe -. tts m t I azee., o f he patad
A committee of' whotesatrtS ttl met t Mr o Ico. o ~, ~s
night in the iooms of th' I t<~-hambe of ia t, I i ~ tf mrh I a
'emmerce-. aind. after org.anizine. a --osthttt p-tha n ~a
grO era unit. Pent out ant appeal l to all e aeacrai tecuys r m
TAholesaters. retaiktrs. and mal-ket deaners 'oe n55sii t~
to close their ptaccs on the dlay of the t sC~,c htte;i Al..-"
patrad. 'There woitl be at leart .W in th oetisIehttlI~' '11 I".
mivision. N. H. tShea ieeidc--. N W.
men and boy emptores of the -'orr, o.-x
13urchelt was secretar y, ino~ Gem re Corn
Iee t art -tate It hf majon of'it
well a-.ted as treCasurter. Arrangeetd' sfl5ite u tTAtle rsad s o n no'
wilt be completed at another meeting at ofthe uawe -ill e thd hoen m. i
the inmeplac Monay nght.departments in th- stores.
Words of praise were heard on at: aIdes Thawmeangisatse e.
yesterday for the manasers and ptro-thiatendfsoefterplnfr
prietora of the h'ig department "t roes tuisi.adi oeo h~ ln o
forther rtritis in decdin to re-costumes are carried Iito efhct. they
fortletrI tt'otsty it 'O~d~n t ye Imay present a sort of "fashion -unit
main ilosed on the day of the par-ade at A clash between peace and Prera-el
a toss of hundieds of' doltara in business nle5s advocates over the questIon of dos
The parade committee was partucularly' ing the publi at-hoots on the day ot
grafled at their action. tesins that the coums ONFnos msaa. -
