FINANCIAL "EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
rcimraui
WrBruA I 1 I I I 1 1
NIGHT
EXTRA
r vOL.n.-KO. 231
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, JTJNUJ 9, 101G.
CorruonT, 1010. it tm Pcbuo Lttxjci CourjNt.
PIUOE ONE CENT v
JUSTICE HUGHES FIRST
r CANDIDATE TO GO BEFORE
REPUBLICAN CONVENTION
I Whitman Names the Jurist Amid Cheers.
Root Placed Before Delegates by
Nicholas Murray Butler and
Burton by Gov. Willis
s
G. 0. P. Ignores Harmony Overtures From Progressives
v While It Proceeds to the Consideration of Its Can
didates Bull Moose Convention Works
on Its Platform
"" CHICAGO, June 9. The National Republican Convention, ignoring for the
time being all harmony negotiations, got down to its mosl important work at
11-53 o'clock today, when the name of Justice Charles E. Hughes was placed
before the delegates in a speech by Governor Charles S. Whitman, of New York.
A long demonstration of enthusiasm followed the presentation of Hughes'
name. Tho cheering lasted 21 minutes.
; Following this demonstration Nicholas Murray Butler, of New York, was
recognized and began Mb speech presenting the name of Elihu Root.
A second demonstration by the Root "boosters" followed, lasting for sev
eral minutes.
Theodore E. Burton, of Cleveland, was next placed in nomination by
Governor Willis, and the usual prolonged applause followed the Governor's'
If 'pecch.
Mime mo " M t""'e M" "- - -o- - - w...w.., ...-w..e, ....... -
tn the day, and also delaying consideration of the Harmony Committee report,
proceeded with the consideration of the platform, debating its provisions plank
by plank.
COMMITTEE OF 20 TO AID COLONEL.
Prior to the meeting of tho conventions a meeting of all delegates to the
Republican convention who arc advocating the nomination of Roosevelt was
Tealled by George Von L. Meyer', head of the Roosevelt Campaign Committee.
linCSC aeiCgaiua, 111 u mi ocoaiuu, uinum iu in can nit vuiunti n nuiiita uii uic
'floor of the convention and named a committee of 20 to prosecute the campaign.
The Colonel himself, earlier in the day, had a telephone conversation from
his home in Oyster Bay with George W. Perkins and Governor Johnson, in.
MvHlch he discussed the report which the Progressive Harmony Committee had
prepared for presentation to the Moose 'convention.
A sensational incident of the'day was the spectacular visit of Senator Borah,
leader of the Progressive olemenj. in the Republican convention, to the BulU
Moose convention, where he was. received with a remarkable demonstration' of
wild' cheering.
When' word of the incident reached the Republican convention speculation
was rife. ' Senator Smoot' declared that Borah's visit to the Progressives was
no part of any plan devised by the Republican leaders.
"I did not know he was" going to the Progressive gathering," said Smoot.
"lie probably went on his own responsibility. Hc was not sent ljy the Republican
wing of the, peace conference." - J ,
The rumor continued to be circulated all about the hall that, through a.
V combination of "favorite-son" delegates and the Roosevelt people an agreement
had been effected to "kill off" Hughes. That was said to be as far as tho
rirangement went and if the. plan went through it was hoped to take a counle
f ballots' late this evening nnd then adjourn over until morning, when, with,
ir..t.,. -ii i ij -a i'j - i a . .. ...
uugiics ciiminuieu, an euon woum oe maae 10 pui across tile nomination of a
' favorite son.
When asked about the truth of this report, Governor Whitman said: "We
Htlll Insist that we have the votes to nominate Justice Hughes. That is all wo
care to say just now."
It was 'announced on tho authority of leaders of both the Pennsylvania
Republican factions that, after complimentary votes for Brumbaugh and Knox,
at least 70 of the 7G Keystone State delegates would cast their votes for
Justice Hughes. .
WHITMAN NAMflc niriii?o.
ft " "7" """"" """""
BUTLER PRESENTS ROOT;
WILLIS OFFERS BURTON
PLACES HUGHES IN NOMINATION
CHICAGO, June 9.
k Thi convention waa called to order nt
11:14 while the floor yns crowded with
rroups of leaders, near' leaders and dele
gates, conferring excitedly and endeavoring
v to find out what plans had been made.
FrAllk TTIlrhrnV fnfafMll r.A1mA.l nawl
i -. ...V..VWH., ww. v.m,J blVUIIIGU Hilt.
dapper as always, politely edged his way
i mSu njD muss oi numamty, rounumg up
, the Hughes votes.
The Prayer bv Tllnhnn Hfr.rrnvll wMh
owned today's session, was a plea for
mne guidance In the proceedings of the
fy It -was as follows:
We are here on the most Important
Jay of this great gathering. What we
fij here today means much to the lie.
TUbllo and a great deal to the world.
May the spirit of Abraham Lincoln
Widens In our deliberations.
Chalrtn&n ITardtntr flalrrt tlntinlmntta An.
nt to correct a mistaken ruling on a
point of order made yesterday by a Ken
tucky delegate In connection with the elec
tion of a. National Committeeman from
Kentucky. Senator Wadsworth, of New
rjc moved to refer the contest to the
national .Committee with power to settle
we dispute.
After a brief debate the Wadsworth mo
tlon was agreed to.
u L.ww e"c'ly i".2 when Chairman,
aardlBg recognized Senator Reed Smoot.
JWrman of the "peace committee," to read
uwreport of that committee. As the lanky
prnj of the Utah Senator was discerned
??ejto the front the delegates leaned
toSi m a eeram effort to read his
Sdoot Btonri nnUHv whll-. IA ('... t.
mUt," Vent ud from all over the hall.
25, tnt the peace conference -was "free,
ihJ? ehertng delegates made it 'clear that
. W wanted peace If possible.
tJSS1 'i1"9" Bnao Smoot was Inter
?ii..che,e.1 But tne mention of Theo
ttli'tu?. ,vSlts ham, was "Mt with a
Saohi ,r. S Tu r 3eecf- vnen senator
etartud n,.T L"v uemonsiraiion was
llir'.?ut .th W were mingled with
SKSmS-S1",.?? "en,er" The demon
Ur qi?64 w,,n iv" minutes, and Sen-
ft the mPubUcan Natlona, Conve.
Totm .nM.i..-- ...
tthri7.V; "JBPPomted pursuant
L- Sr!KluH?"L',l ot yster4ay
niit, r v"ce wun a com-
lS5ff?u?tS consisting of
son. of nn7' . ww "r"! John-'
Mwvund wnl?114' B"Parte. of
SrPaA;p,n,0,n: oi N' York.
Thl V .' ot Itotana.
lXJh .5W?U. fft of the
-to Veitonit:lY wwstraUon ar.d
- mt'i of the. wntrol of te
.M t J.C-t,
HUGHES MAY GET
70 OF 76 VOTES OF
PENNSYLVANIANS
Leaders Say Ballot Will Fol
low When Knox Is .
Withdrawn
BRUMBAUGH IN THE LIST
Evelina Ltdatr Staff Correspondent
COLISEUM, CHICAGO, June 0. The
Pennsylvania delegation to the Republican
convention will give Justice Hughes at
least TO of its 76 votes, as soon aa the
name of Philander C. Knox is withdrawn,
according to the leaders of both factions.
There Is a tendency among the delegates
to unite In support of whatever action the
Conference Committee takes, and to sup
port any candidate recommended by the
conferees. That Hughes will be Indorsed, is
the general belief among the delegates.
The' name of CJovernor Brumbaugh win
not be presented to the convention until
Pennsylvania la reached in its regular turn
in the roll real 1 of the States. merson
Collins will place the Governor in nomina
tion. The friends pf the Governor expect that
he will receive more than 40 votes on the
first ballot. Senator Penrose says be will
not receive more than 35,
The Penrose delegates will vote for
Knox, and will probably place him In nom
ination if that has not been done by some
other State before Pennsylvania ia reached.
The Brumbaugh votes will then be
thrown to Knox, unless there la a landslide
toward Hughes on ,the -second ballot- They
will go to Hughes whenever It Is apparent
that Hughes la the winner.
E. H. YAIIE KEAC1IES CHICAGO
T0 WATCH CLOSING SITTINGS
Congratulated by Brother on Work in
City Committee
Bv a Staff CorrcipondtHt '
COIvISKUM. Chicago, June 9. State Sen
ator Edwin fl. Vara arrived In Chicago this
morning to be a spectator at the closing
sittings of t)e twq conventions,
. When he' was greeted by hU brother, Con
gressman William S. Vare, the Congress
man's first Tfrords were of congratulation on
the new title of the secretary of the Phila
delphia "Republican City Committee, Se
lect Councilman William E, Finley, who
was elected to succeed Harry Wlttlg, will
be called the' "executlv? manager" of the
City Coramlttt. Wittig- title was secre
tary That was a, fcFpy thought '
"It ia s, Sao ttiV saw the. CoBSrejwarjan,
GOVERNOR CHARLES S. WHITMAN, of New York.
WOMEN REJOICE
AS BOTH PARTIES
FAVOR SUFFRAGE
Republicans Adopt Plank.
Progressives Act on
on It Today
celebrations' planned
CHICAGO, June 9. Joy rules In tho
headquarters of the woman surtrnglst.-jf over
tho adoption of equal suffrage planks In
tho Republican njatform. The Progressive
platform, which probably will ,be adpated,
today, also favors woman suffrage. The'
women who have been staging big; demon
strations -around tho convention headqijar.
,tcrsfpr tho last tow' days", 'culmUistU'ng
with a proiesslon In a driving rain, felt
their efforts had not been fruitless. They
proclaimed the action aa recognition that
they are powerful factors in national
politics.
The ranking officials of tho National
American Woman Suffrage Association were
particularly jubilant. They declared that
the Republicans gnve them exactly what
they wanted. They liked tho work of the'
Progressives, too, but regarded It as merely
a repetition of. what the party did four
years ago.
REPUBLICAN PLANK.
The plank adopted by the Republicans
follows:
The Hepuhllran party, rcnlNrmlnc It'
faith In government of the people, by
the people, for the people, u n niennure
of Jiutlce to iinprlmlf the ndult people of
tills country, forum the extenxlon of the
nutTrace to women, hut recognize the
right of each Stute to settle tills ques
tion for Itself.
At the Congressional Union for Woman
Suffrage tho action was hailed! as a step
In tho right direction, but not altogether
what It should have been. The Congres
sional Union wanted some sort of expres
sion from the Republican Convention
which would further Its fight In favor of
the adoption fry Congress of tho Susan B,
Anthony amendment to tho Federal Cdn
stltutlon providing woman suffrage. It Is
happy,- however, to get as much as It did,
The women believe the Republicans, made
a wise move in adopting the suffrage
plank, for they say the women voters of
the States where equal suffrage now Is
law will be solidly against the Democratic
nominee unless tho Democratic party
should take similar action, which they
doubt. ,
All of the suffragists believe the adoption
of the pank by the Republicans Is the big
gest victory they have' had since the first
State decided to let women vote. Celebra
tions, the leaders say, will be held all over
the country in tribute to the Republican
party" for Its action.
At the new Chicago municipal pier there
was a ma8Smeetlng of'jiuffraglsts late yes
terday afternoon where speeches were de-
Contlnued on rate r)ve. Column Four
KITCHENER DROWNED
TRYING TO MAKE SHORE
Boat With Marshal and Staff
Swamped by High Seas ; Cruiser
Sahk-in'20 Minutes
LONDON, June '9. Lord Kitchener and
his staff were drowned off the Orkney Is.
lands while trying to make their way 'to
shore, from the sinking cruiser Hampshire,
according to an Aberdeen dispatch, to the
Times today. ,
The Kitchener disaster occurred between
Marwlck and Brough Blrsay, northwest pf
the Scottish mainland. Lord, Kitchener and
his staff reached the Orkney Islands Mon
day night and Immediately, embarked fojr
Archangel..
Apparently the Hampshire, sank about
; miles from land, going down in about
twenty mlnutea. Lord Kitchener and his
staff were placed In boats, bin they were
eoon swamped by the high seas.
SIAYQR ELLIS' DAUGHTER WEDS
Married at Father's Home 'to Byron
Samuel Watson
Miss El.liab.eth, Matlack Ems, daughter
of Mayor Charles H. Ellis; of Camden, waa
married this afternoon at the mils home.
Sit South 5th street, Camden, to Byron
Samuel Watson, of 1UQ South 24 atreet.
The Rev. C J. FiUgerald performed the
ceremony MU Ella F. Prank "was the
bridesmaid and the, "best rnan" was, Frank
it Bills, brother of the bride. FoUowlKS
their wedding .Journey, the couple will fc
at 93t South 5th atri, CftnuUn.
PERKINS MAKES
HOPEFUL REPORT
TO PROGRESSIVES
Peace Committee Chairman
Tells Convention There's
Good Chance for Colonel
REPUBLICANS FRIENDLY
CHICAGO, June. 0. Senator Borah,
one of the Republican pence conferees,
entered the Progressive Convention and
received a wild ovation. He said he
had not rfeserted the G. O. P., but was
seeking a tfd TTflprtttoiu.'.
AUDITORIUM, CHICAGO, June 9.
A great Roosevelt demonstration was
started by George W. Perkins in the
Progressive Convention after Mr. Borah
had finished his speech.
CHICAGO, June 9. The Progressive
Convention has adjourned until 3
o'clock (4 o'clock Philadelphia time).
AUDITORIUM. Chicago. June 0. The
Progressfvo convention was called to order
at iu;'u ims morning wun tne rerxins Tac
tion determined to delay nomination If pos
sible for the sake of the peace negotiations
and the Jlunlock-Johnson radical element
bent on nominating Roosevelt and doing It
In n, hurry.
Tho prayer by Rabbi Stolz was hardly fin
ished when a wild demonstration for Roose
velt was begun.
Thero was a hum of conversation. Col
one) Charles Mason, of Maine, arose to a
question of privilege. He paid a tribute to
Georgia nnd offered the seats of his delega
tion to the delegation from Georgia." which
was forced to fjlt on the stage for lack of
room. Georgln, acknowledged the compli
ment gracefully.
C. H. Hutchlns, speaking for the dele
gation, called upon the convention to fight
for tho party to, the end. He sounded
the keynote! for action; for the continuance
of the party In all Its force. To accept
the offer of. the Maine seats, Georgia started
a parade across the hall. The State ban
ners were flaunted at the head of the delegation,-
It waa the signal for a big Roose
velt demonstration that started .at 10:44
o'clock,
Maine came to the stage to take the
Beats of the Georgia brethren. The dem
onstration lasted for four minutes.
"Pending the report from the Conference
Continued on Vare Four, Column One
COALITION BINDS
"FAVORITE SONS"
AND ROOSEVELT
f
Working Agreement
Reached to Eliminate
- - Hughes as a Can
y didate
RACE'THEN OPEN TO FIELD
CHlOAab, June 9. Roosevelt managers
and those .of some pf the favorite sons
reached a working agreement on the votes
bf'the-delegates whom they control In the
Republican National Convention today.
The program provides that:
"The campaign managers shall hold their
delegates in line for their various candi
dates ,until Justice Charles E. Hughes is,
eliminated as 'a candidate. ,
Colonel Theodore Roosevelt and all : of
the, avqrlte eons" who have not been
Cllmlnatecf by an agrejament after, the fifth,
ballot will be given a thorough tryout.
Eiji candidate's manager will get plenty
of opportunity to stage such demonstrations
in. trie, convention a ha may consider neces
sary to show his full strength In delegates.
There; will be conferences of the Roose
velt delegates and delegates pledged to
'tVfy.ons" after the Republican con
Yuwti AttJturB this afternoon or tonight.
QUICK NEWS
SENATOR LODGE PRESENTS JOHN W. WEEKS' NAME
CHICAGO, June 0. Senator Lodge at 2:21 (3:21 Philadelphia
tints) was recognized by Clinirnmn Harding to.plnco in nomination
Senator John W. Weeks, of Massachusetts.
COLISEUM OVERCROWDED; FIRE MARSHAL TAKES CHARGE
COLISEUM, Chicago, Juno 0. At 2 o'clock this afternoon the
city file nlnrshnl took charge of the Coliseum. AU Investigation :c
v.,i,vi liutt t.s. inilldniff vus ovorcrotfded unci thu do3iku.iu wem
iiioiucicu to UIU68 entrance to nuyueuuns tven if thoy hail ticteti
JOHN R. M'TEAN, NEWSPAPER. OWNER- DJESV -
WASHINGTON, June 0. John It. I-IcLsnn, publisher o: thu
Washington Post and the Cincinnati Enquirer, died nt his home; In
the suburbs hero this afternoon, no had been ill for several weeks.
' JAPANESE SHIP FOUNDERS ! MANY LOST
, . '
NAGASAKI, Juno 0. The Japanese steamship Oyo Maui, h3
lotmdctrtl with ltcavy loss of life. Only SI bi'tuuen were saved.
V a. -'
'$2000 IN DIAMONDS STOLEN FROM JEWELER.'S SAFE
A box containing unset diamonds valued nt ?2000 was stolen
today from. a snfe in the ewelry store of Mrs. Mary Mllner,, 1732
South 7th street, after thieves had decoyed Mrs. Mllner to" the kitchen
of her home! . - - , . . , ....
. . . ' a
t " t. .. 2W , . . Sj i r .u ...J i ' . e. --VA
r-' t.rf " , S . -,r"'r T- , T ", ,3 . '
,.-. -BELMONT RACING RESULTS ''
(ii.i'-
1'lrst nice, '2-year;0lds, 4.l'-2 furldnjjs.'sti-alght Prlscilla,. 101,
Allen, 0 to SjiO to 20 and out, won; Alvonl, 112, CCroxlcr, 17 to 10, 0
to 20 and out, second; Temptation, 101 Gamer, 5 to 2, 3 to 5 aud out,
third' Time, .53 Q-5. "
v
'
TROLLEY CONDUCTOR DIES IN CAR
W. Warren, a conductor on the 17th and ISth streots line, fell dead at his post
while his car was crossing- Catharine street at 18th. At' the Polyclinic Hospital he
was pronounced a victim of hcurt disease. Warren was 50 years old and lived
at 1625 Jackson street.
TELEGRAPH SERVICE SUSPENDED IN CHINESE PROVINCES
The Western Union Telegraph Company nnnounces that telegraph service has
been suspended with the Chinese provinces pf Hunan nnd Swchucn In addition to
the provinces of Yunnan, Kwelchow, Kwangsl, Chckiang, ICwangtuns-nn'd Shenst,
already announced. Messages for Harbin, Manchuria, may be sent via Vladlvostock
at an Increased rate of 70 cents a. word.
ITALIAN PREFERS CAMDEN JAIL TO TRENCHES
The unusual procedure of a prisoner's fighting to prevent his release from the
Camden County Jail was presented In the Camden Criminal Court yesterday, before
Judge Boyle. Lulgl Catuat sought to have the restraint on his liberty continued, tn
order that he might not be deported to Italy, where he will be pressed Into service In
the army. Catual lost his fight. Judge Boylo directed that he be turned over to the
United States Immigration authorities, who will take hlra to New iork, and he will
sail today on the steamship Cretlc as an undesirable, With Catual will be deported
Nlccolo Fovolo and his wife and child. Fovolo threatened Ids wife with a butcher
knife and struck his daughter
WILL SALUTE FLAG AT CITY HALL CONCERTS
The American flag will be saluted at this season's free concerts of the Philadelphia
Band, which open on the north plaza of City Hall Monday night. At the beginning
of each concert the flag will bo run up the newly erected flagpole on one side of the
pavilion and will bo salute.! by the audience. The closing selection of each concert
will be a patriotic air, durlnc the playing of which the audience will stand in respect
to the flag, which again will be raised,
AVIATION SCHOOL HARASSED BY BOAT ANCHORAGES
In all probability efforts will be made by the Commissioners of Navigation fo
'assist Robert E. Glendlnnlng, founder of the Philadelphia School of Aviation, at
Esslngton, in preventing yachts and other craft from anchoring in the river directly
opposite the school. Mr. Glendlnnlng, who says (he presence of numerous boats
anchored In the vicinity of the school seriously impedes the Btartlng. and landing" of
the' machines, has petitioned Djiector Webster, president of the .Navigation Commls.
slon to take some action by which this trouble may be overcome. It waa announced
yesterday by George P. Sprouls, secretary of that body, that Mr. Glendlnnlng's
potitlon had been referred to one of the special committees for consideration and It
was likely a favorable report would be made.. It is Mr, Glendlnnlng's desire to have
some kind of e'sn put up caking boat owners not to anchor in the vicinity of the
school,
PUBLIC SUPPORT OF NATIONAL GUARD URGED
Public support of the National Guard units stationed in this city is urged by the
Philadelphia. Chamber of Commerce. The plea was jnade In the fprm of a resolution,
presented by H. K. Mulford, chairman of the preparedness committee, and adopted
at the monthly meeting 9' the, board of directors yesterday, -
JQFFRE ATTENDS WAR COUNCIL IN LONDON
LONDON. June 8. Aft Important council of war. attended by General Joffre.
was held tn Downing street today. It la understood the conference discussed the
new military situation brought about by Lord Kitchener's death. Others attendins
wero the French Ambassador to England, Sir Edward Grey, the BriUsh Foreign
Secretary and members of the war council. In connection vlth the council of war,
the Government Press Bureau gave out a statement saying that General Joffre had
been accompanied to London by Premier Brland, General Koquea, French Minister
of War; M- Clsnwntet. Minuter of Commerce, and Denys Cochin. Minister of Stata,
Xa.vid, Uoyd-3orge, Minister of Munitions, ajso attended, tht conference.
TEUTONS FACE
ENVELOPMENT
BY SLAV ARMY
Austrian Front Broken
Along 100 Miles to'40-Mile
Depth
2,000,000 MEN ENGAGED
General Brusiloff Hammers to
Drive Wedge Between 'Ger
man and Austrian Forces
Fate of Fortress of Lutdk
September-1, 1915. Captured by
Germans nnd Austro-Hunjrarlans.
September 23, 1015. Evacuated
by Teutons.
September 24, 1915. Recaptured
by Russians, with 4000 prisoners.
September 28, 1915. Evacuated
by Russians.
October 1, 1915. Recaptured by
Germans.
Juno C, 1916. Captured by Russians.
ROME, June 0.
The whole Austro-Hungarian army
on the eastern front is threatened with
envelopment by the Russians, It was
stated today at the Russian Embassy.
' The Austro-Hungarinn front has been
broken over a length of 100 miles and
for a depth of 40 miles.
PETKOOrtAD. June 9. With nearly 65,
,000 prisoners In tViclr hand3. taken In less
than a week, the Russians are advancing
all along tho line In Volhynta. Gallcla nnd
Bukowlna. The greatest pressure Is, being
exerted against the Austro-Hungarlans be
tween Ciartorysk and the Gatlclan frontier. ,
where tho Russians have occupied the
fortress of Lutzk, crossed the Styr river
and are. pressing the Teutons In a south
western direction .n utter rout.
General UruBllolt. the Russian command
er. Is evidently driving a .wedge between
tho Austro-Hungarian nnd Germnn armies,
"where they Join near the Prlpet niaxshe.s
With thla enterprise successfully carried
out. tKo Russians could drive southward
tqward the triangle , formed by Jnrpslaw,
Priemysl and Lemberg. probably compel!
c trig the Auntro-Hungnrlnns to evacuate
Vladimir. Volynsk and Lemberg.
Nearly J.QOd.OOO Foldlera are engaged In
the great battle which Is considered to be
In only Its Initial stage.
Great masses xf.-artlllerr have been con
centrated nil nlone the lino by the Rus
sians., nnd the bombardment of the Austro
Hurirannn poltlons poiinlt In vlolne the
blc gun nttneks against .the Russian llftes" ,'
when vpn Mackensen began his offensive
Inst year. ' .
The' dentine h particularly Intense
around the fortress of Dubno, wliere the
AUFtro-Hunpnrlnns have made a desperate
effort to prevent the Russians from -Advancing
alone the Rnvnrt-Lemberg railway.
Farther south the Russians, after captur
ing Important Austrian Works, are now ad
vancing toward -the Strypa with the ob
ject of forcing n crossing.
At some points the Russians have ad
vanced mora than 25 miles slr.ee they
opened their offensive.
The Austro-Hungarian losses have been
so enormous that the troops are de
moralized. SUCCRBS ON KTRVPA.
The Russians. It s said here, scored
another notable success In the last 24
hours. rushing forward In massod for
mation, with nn unprecedented outpour
of nrtlllery. they pressed the Austro,Hun
earlan troops defending tho "doors to the
Rukowlna" to the River Strypa. taking
strong positions on the Tryhuchowlc-Jas.
lowlc-j front, Both places He a few miles
from one another west of tho Strypi and
south of the Important city nf Rucsaz.
This success, If followed up by further
progress, menaces th Bukowlna crown
land with Invasion nnd the whole Austrb
Hungnrlan army defending It estimated at
from 250,000 to 300 000 with being cut off.
The Russian oIllcUil report jisserta that
the total numbai' of prisoners taken In the
new offensive haB been brought up to
54.000.
The Russian War Office statement fol
lows :
Tuesday we cantured the district and
town of I.utsk. also many points on tho
line of the r'vers Ikwa and Styr cross- ,
lng them and continuing our offensive.
lp Gallcla. on the lower Strypa. we
stormed strong positions on the Trybu
chowce-Jaslowlea front and are close
to the Strypa,
In addition to the -10.000 prisoners
before recorded, we captured 58 officers
and U'.OOO men and quantities of guns
and machine guns.
As a result of the fighting In Yob
hynla and Qallcla. an Important victory
- has been crowned by a deep smashing
In of the enemy's front
LUTSK'S FOURTH PALL.
Lutsk, situated 35 miles from the Gal.
clan border, Is a modern strong
hold erected within recent years to ward
oft possible Austrian aggression. It Is
the eastern angle of the Volhynlan for
tress, the two others. Dubno. the apex,
situated 30 mites to the southeast, etlll In
Teuton hands, and Rovno. 30 miles to the
Continued en rase Eleven, Column One
THE WEATHER
Of what purpose Is hope, expectancy, an.
tlelpatlon. optimism? For daye upo.n dayst
deluges of water have dropped from the sky
and avalanches of words have come from
Chicago, and no one knows how It will end.
We have been watting for today, which long
ago promised to, untangle the Inscrutable at
Chicago and to clear up the mess Into which
the weather has drifted. But now various
movements. Progressive and rainy, have,
muddled polities and weather more muddlly
than ever.
Today may become a. big day, at that
, FORECAST
for Philadelphia and vicinity Gen-i
trally cloudy and vixaeltled tonight and
Saturday," with probably soma light
rain; not tnueh change in tempiraturf
moderate (atterly winds.
LOST AND FOUND
UHUOOH" -Lost. dlunoad brooch, about Sut-
,a
.
5
unUy. Jua . BJ ft, MmHV Uu,
vB IT t"Sl) diamonds Rtwir-J If mlwirf
IO J , 1,4Q1KU e I. , fy ySVriSg 5s
KUtei iairv.i. 7,
IMS u mm itbm jvu nm f -t
