AJLBU QUERQU E MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Friday, June 9, 1916
IHly bjr Carrier ur Mall, Mr
Month. Hlnglo Cople, i
CI. .!
I I II .
CONFERENCE OF
MOQSERS Ai
REPUBLICANS IS
DAY'S FEATURE
Progressives Send Invitation
to G, 0, P, Delegates to Join
Them in Harmonyfest; Com
mittees Named,
SENTIMENT FOR
COLONEL STRONG
THE WEATHER
THE WKATUKIt FOKI.CA8T.
Denver, Colo., June S. New Mex
ico: Friday and Saturday fair; warm
er Friday.
at
LOCAL WKATIIEK IIKPOIIT.
For twenty-four hours, ending
p. m. yesterday:
Maximum temperature, S6 degrees;
minimum, 63 degrees; range, 23 do
greeg; temperature t 6 p. in., 82 de
grees; east wind; cleur.
CITY BANK CXIwiIUXUa.
Jj8.CT5.litl.'
Leaders Have Struggle to
Prevent Immediate Nomina
tion of Roosevelt; Radicals
Hard to Control,
All I H "HAPPY IMRIJKY"
t un ago, Mine w. ine comer- v ,
ees of the republican mid progretf- t
coxri-:iu:Ks Aiwontx
sive parties adjourned at 11:30
a. m. after a two-hour session,
with the announcement that they
would not meet again until after ?
the sessions of the two conven-
timis tomorrow. The only state-
mcnt given out :, that "we re-
.r poi't progress.''
This, was the situation as epi-
toniized by one of the conferens
I after the conference had been in
session a little more than hour:
The utmost harmony
reigned in the meeting.
Republicans were, impressed
4 with the apparent desire of the
progressives to effect an agree
ment.
No name except that of Col
onel Roosevelt ha been men
tioned. Progressives, while
showing a decided preference for
Roosevelt an the nominee, did not
ay they would1 not support any
(itner men.
The name of Hughe had not
been mentioned.
Kneouruged by the happy
opening of the conference, it was
crystallization upon Justice Hughes in
the republican convention.
Tho progressive convention re-as-'vmbled
tomorrow morning at 10
o'clock and the republicans ut 11
o'clock. Whatever linnuenR after that
(depends on tho action of the confer
ees, who were still In session at a late
hour tonight. .
llamiouy I'mlUtccl.
Those who were confident that In
harmonious action would come out of
the peace conferences pointed out that
the progressives are in the position of
having as yet adopted . no platform
and there is more than a possibility
that If the conferees can reach an
agreement the republicans will meet
, the situation by taking some of the
progressive planks Into their own plut-
torm. Some progressive leaders pro
fessed to have word from the inside
of the republican convention thut this
would be done.
After struggling more than three
hours today to prevent radical dele
gates from rushing headlong into the
nomination of Colonel Roosevelt as
their standard bearer, the progressive
convention recessed at 5:45 p. m. to 8
o'clock tonight to enurde committees
of the. two conventions to meet in an
effort to effect peace,
The conservative leaders with diffl-
jculty ftcmmeil. the insistent demands
for the nomination of Roosevelt be-
jfore the republicans could select some-
lone; else, but finally succeeded.
j Dealing With Thieves.
j Before the delegates consented to
.listen, however, many speakers
i Charged that the progressive party
j leaders were dealing with thieves and
.could afford to take no chances.
! It was not until word came from
had itnp 1 oliseum that the republicans had
$ received tho invitation of the progros-
sives to confer by Immediately nam
Ing a conference committee, that the
radicals were satisfied and consent
s, 1 was given to tiike a recess.
Leaders' Control Precarious.
The afternoon showed the leaders
more clearly than ever before that
4, TYicy are in control only becauso T a
! willingness to attempt to secure peace
. and an unfavorable report from the
4, conference committee would mean al-
. (most insiani nomination or i;oose-
ivelt.
I A communication from the progres
sive convention Inviting the republl-
:i
IS VISITED ON
I MEMBERS OF
IS
IA BAND
Francisco Alveiez and Juan
Sanchez Hanged at Dem-
ing for Participation in Raid!
on Town of Columbus,
Mexicans Set Fire to
American Consulate
l. KOKNIM JOUl IOL mi,
Kl Paso. Tex,, June H. The
American consulate ni Durango City,
Durango, was destio.wd by fire dur
ing . anti-American demonstrations,
according to Information received
here by. army officers tonight. The
rioters applied ft torch to the building
after dragging the flag through th
at reels.
'SILL ACCLAIM
I GREETS MENTION
OF ROOSEVELT'S
maml ov nnnr
MEN SLEEP SOUNDLY
IN SHADOW OF GALLOWS
Priest Administers Last Con
solaton to Condemned Pris
oners Who Meet Their Fate
With Stoic Indifference,
G. 0. P. PLATFORM
ATTACKS SHIFTY
EXPEDIENTS AND
f
PURS
E-
MAKING
said there was a. possibility that
the conferees would remain in j
" session most. 01 me mgui, 01 un'
til they had reached some taugi-
bje egfeerrwnt, or complefe 4hJ
asreemiMlT.
can convention to appoint a comnm-
teo or conference to met a like com-
4finiuee irom tne progressives was re
Uoived by Chairman llardins during
! i'nator odge' .adiri of tho plat-
10, ni.
Senator Smoot said: "Yoii can't tell
what they will do, but it is more than
likely we will uppoint a committee to
meei mem.
"We will bp very tflad to consult,
no doubt. We nre for peae'e and har
mony," said Chairman Harding when
Discussion of ' pniKressive runicniura nno
int luD lines l,ioiJtea a reeoiuiton lur couiereiic.e.
' nv mommtm joul riciu ih
Chicago. 3 IL, June 8 The con
forces were unanimous in tu)
sirtmir that the conference was etir 1
tirely harmonious.
iho ,.,,...01,. nniv .toil ! introduced by Jame8 H. Garfield
'i,..i m..h. h ri.Tm:i.-jin I "I have no comment,-' said
loiuciees SMisgesieo me names 01
virions favorite sons, including Fair
banks, Burton, Hoot, ilugbes and oth
er, but reached no unanimous deci-
thnn, hnn lh.. lh..r Tho etiHro J V enti'in
w.
ratine of discussion, it was said, never
got beyond generalities.
While both sides reported "pros
Mss" the republicans appeared to take
a more optimistic View of the situa
tion lhan some of the progressives,
unions whom there was fur from a
unanimity' of opinion that an agree
nieiit was probable.
It was agreed that the conferees
should report to their respective con
ventions in the morning. Neither
side was at all sure that the conven
tion which ii represented could be
eontrolled. It was understood that
'three ballots would bo taken In the
republican. convention and if Without
result, there should be a further con
ference tomorrow night. If, however,
as might very likely be the case, eith
er or both conventions should make
nominal ion tomorrow, all further'
r gotiations would be impossit le. j
,:i'y in the evening there 'was a re-j
Port (hut the progressive conferees
had offered .the mimes of HeiiHtor!
Murray Crane.
"N'o Hnap Judgment."
"There will bo no snap Judgment
while I am In tho chair," said Chalr-
mun Kobins of the progressive con-
refusln? the reeognie a dele-
ratrt who yelled: "Let ns nominate."
Mr. Garfield's resolution was as fol
low: "In the spirit of the statement ap
proved at the meeting of its national
committee held J?.ivjary 11, last, the
national convention of tho progressive
party invites and requests the na
tional convention of the republican
party to appoint a committee of con
ference to meet and confer with a
similar committee, from this body."
fiifford l'irhot seconded Garfield's
motion.
Henry Allen, of Kansas, offered )n
amendment to Garfield's motion that
tho committee be instructed to report
back by 8 o'clock tonight.
Hnrniopy on lttli .Sides.
Former Representative Murdock. of
Kansas, was then recognized. "I want
a little harmony on both sides," he
said. ,
Jlurdock worked the convention
Into a frenzy when he said: "Yon
folks want Roosevelt and the one
IiOiIl'.. -.r 1 ,,.i 1 thing we ought to do is to send the
Ooetlmis and Leonard Wood as ac- i nomination of Roosevelt to the re
'Ttnblc to them, but this proved to i Pu1'.,''ca convention .
untrue. So such suggestion wasl ' '" a"' T-ddy and can get
made. I him, you must nominate before tins
t'nnft.,tt ........1.1,. !...,) i day in through," Murdock concluded.
, vuiii 11 1 11 L.en ayuunmi .. . , . . ,
hjvthe repnl lhan and progressive na-jTh'- onvenUoti again burst forth into W.IV to ,,e hung.
"nat 00 U''nt nnw 1.1 il tifi.ua hnrm unv I fp''1' m
M their first, meeting" tonight. .. . 1 hy talrmun KoWn '"aHy .
The renin,iir.- i.,i7. I. H. Kirk wood, of Missouri
Kressive, t0 mM 'them at a downtown ! reejignlzed to present what t'hatnijan
club .imi.tha r..-..i Robins said was a "communication
" "1 'from Kagamore Hill."
yoi vpposcil to HuglH-s, j ijecrelary u. K. Davis tnen received
Illlt will como of the meeting can j the now famous telegram sent by
c w ''""rtu- The repul.lji an j Colonel Rooseve.lt to former .Senator
ommittee is composed of men who, Jackson, of Maryland, agreeing to ad
re remi riled us opposed to the nomi- 'dress the republican coiivciition it in
Mion of Roosevelt but not opposed j vited. '
10 the elimination of Justice Hughes. At the conclusion of the telegram
.i, l'r,lS"iesslve conferees are gen-' Colonel R. A. Rawlinson, of linne
rHv reguiiled as men who will insist j sotu, said there was "only one man
0i the colonel's nomination. iwhovn this convention will nominnte,
' -Vew Situation Cn-HtctJ. .(Colonel Roosevelt," but he pleaded
The aecepimice by bpth conven- I with the convention "not to be hys
J'omi of thp piee conference proposal Iterical."
hrew , situutln fUo a new unf;Pr. George V. Perkins, cf New -York,
i was given a stirring ovation wnen ne
'her rennhii...... i'.j. .1... laross to make a statement to the c
APICIAL DISPATCH TO MCMMINA iQU,NLI
iKining, X. M Juno . Kranclsco
Alvarez was hanged at 6:,"!? o'clock
this morning- lie went to his death
in silence, being accompanied to the
scaffold by Father Cnrnet. Asked if
he had anything to say he answered
"No," and the drop was sprung. The
fall failed to break his neck, and it
as seven minutes before lie was pro
nouni cil dead, dying- bv strangulation.
Sanchez was banged at t!;")5 u'cioek;
He also went coolly to the scaffold
in company with Father Caruet, and
declared that be had nothing to fay
before meeting his death. He walked
n If in a dauo and did not seem to be
fullv consolous of the fate that await
ed. "
The utmost quiet prevailed in Iicm.
Ing while the executions were going
on. The streets for a block around
the Jntl were patrolled by the militia,
and no one was allowed to so near
the Jail yard.
Militia Guards Town.
With two companies of the New
Mexico national guard on duty here
(last night, Pcminy went to bed early
I without upparent apprehension as to
(possible trouble incident to the dou-
hie hajiginp at dawn of Francisco Al
varez and Juan Sancuez, two of the
seven convicted raiders who took part
in the attack on the town of Colum
bus. Thd condemned men, following
their arrival this morning, were driveu
to tho county Jail and there spent an
uneventful day. They were served
a good diivher ai.d, also a -.Ood lAippe
strawberry shortcake and ice crej;' '
making up part of the menu.
Following supper the prisoners
asked for a priest. Father Carnet,
the local parish priest, was sent for
and spent about an hour and a half
with the men tonight, and if either
had any doubt as to his fate this was
removed, tor the priest told them that
they had but a few hours to live and dent asked the
uuviseu mem 10 muae ineir peace
I with God.
! On account of the smallnesH of the
Luna county jail, Alvarez and San
rher were placed In a single cell. They
retired about 10 o'clock and soon
were sound asleep.
Within the udobe wall that served
for an enclosure of the Jail mid out
side were the members of Company
II, of Carlsbad, while down town
Company I, of Denting, patrolled the
streets all night. The saloons were
closed all day yesterday to remain
closed until after the hanging. All
these precautions were taken to pre
vent any possible demonstration or
outbreak that might Interfere with
the preparations for the execution.
The soldiers were Tully armed and
carried belts full of cartridges.
The last details fur the double; exe
cution were completed shortly be
fore midnight. Kheriff Simpson and
bis dcputie with a representative of
1he Journal, went to the Jail, where
I he scaffold was inspected for the
last time. The ropes were placed and
these were stretched with heavy bags
of sand '.verything worked per
fectly. The scaffold stood almost in
tront if the cells of the condemned
men, and during this proceeding nei
ther of the men awakened. A high
board stoeluide was built around the
scaffold, shielding it from the view
of the morbidly rurioiuj. Though lh"
sraftold was built with a double trap,
It was finally decided to hang the
men one at a time, since onlv two
to women, but reu.;nies the right of
e-icb lale to settle 1 h .3 t;i:estUin for
itself."
As the pendulum swung first one
way and then another, gbuun or Jubi
lation repined in the ranks of the
women who through ralu hiiiI wind
carried their plea to tho convention
yesterday.
Aelvef m-cislon.
The adverse decision thut five of
the subcommittee of the republican
resolutions committee hail voted
against rei , ignition of woman suf
fi.ige In the platform und four hud
favored it, el, me early ill the day
Tilery w.iu u hurried marshaling 'f
The defense sought to show thai III MIWI I II I I 1 1 1 1 II I ! ""' "'1",u' "r suflrage and thre
the accused bandits bad been forced " -w w w . , nouis ini.-r the resoiutuum as a wtmle
by Villa 10 Join bis army," beins. p1"1'" " "1 'iv"r or iveognmng
prior to the raid, ignorant peon ot f ' ' .me oum-ipi" 11 woman sunrage. 1110
Mv e.i 'I'liev ellltiiiiil Hull t hi v ill! . i n in , i iu,i nn.s n"i i -in ru pur nil,,,,.
.......... 111 if . . ' , r , . 1 ' 1 ... 1 r , .... .......
111.1 know l IPle. itiev were En lie M fl I - m 1 1 P 1 lot I III 1 sT 1. 1 I M 1 1 nil 11 onu, with iiiinc in, u 111
wnen tbeva.lvan.Md to attack the I .... . ' ulwcut.-. bad bee,, called
American town and that they look btaTtS WIlOU Header 01 M"v; "n "'"'"" were hastening
part in the attack and helped loot ril , - . n . " ""' ''"muuitee r un that the io tu.ii
and burn the town only through tear F IcltlO l lll ReaCiieS ReiCi enCe mU' ""-'1 '"1-
that Villa, their ' hief," would kill . . ,, trn-mls of suffrage mi the commit-
tb.-m If tbcv refused "i ho chief Wit- tO COlOliel S rOllCV, ' with e ntreaties le.
ness against them was a t welve-ye-ar- J tandfirm as one alter another the
old bov, u member of the raiders. The u'.ventees took tbeii plj. es. There
ho- nmiiniriii ted tin. lenUomni- of tbe . were repented parleys, ,i ivi'. for
i wo.,or- t.. eenil-l oei-ilvi. tol.i oflfjlIAL F ED APPRllVAL i luncheon and finally rei i.n.sldei ution I
ii, .,r,iir..nt onn,.i , f ,,. in . . . vHM agreed to a tul it emerged us the
participate. In the raid, the piomu-e GIVEN EQUAL SUFFRAGE."" ',ll,Ilk "f ,h" republKau platform
that Villa made each or his follower with the principle of woman suffrage
of a white wife when ihev captured ' j uncondltionallv favored but with the
the town and klll.,1 all ' the white n,A,.. U,aA Q,n M 0 ' !!"""V"U"" 'h' !
men; e,l memev tnev were to get uoin yuoliuii utviuitu utaig ivictt- " -"-"
the bank; f to cat and clothes to . rlltLllc;nc.c pi,oor p tl,e 'Hiestlon for itself.
wear.' Tne boy u.- ficd for turn- ICrj LlUnUSItlStS jUQQ OQ Una I Vole.
ing stat''s evidence-. Me lost a b as r Rocarv itintt Ic Re'tH' 11"' fillal V",M ln ,n"' 'oinmiitee on
a result of being slo.i m Hie raid, and lUlt Itt-oOl V a HUH lo MCttu, ,,, ee Uiratimi as agreed upon wus
his youth also won lor hlni sviiipalliy. Antic Hn o I net I nit'ili j .".n for and 1 1 against.
Tim ease; was unpaialleled in the ttllllo llctvtj LelOi. Luillli a Mll,eommlttee. those oppos-
crlminal annals of New r.iexii'o, six Uug "votes for women" were .Senators
defendants lie-lng cbargetl with tiiur.- " I Lodge, Wadswoi th and Oliver,
eler in the first flegive under the sunie m wmim umc imchi uiu jcharles Hopkins Clark and former
Indictment and tried Jointly. In the Chicago, June 8. Th" republican itepresetuative Mowluud of Ohio.
selection or the Jury neither the state, convention teiay accptea the invito.- Those who favored the'plea for rec-'lng Is the report of the resolutions
nor the de fense rejee ted a, single Juror j tlon of the progressives to a confer-! llKliitl,,n were Senutors Horah, 8 uth- jCommlttee of the republican , party
In the original panel, t me prospective ! ence for harmony. A proposal to that ' erland and Fall and Representative now in session nt the' Coliseum!
Juror disqualified himself by statins ; end, adopted first in the- progressive M.1(1(ll,n (f im,,,,. n tt. tul com-: "In the republlrnn party stood
that ho did not believe In the itifltc-1 conventio'n, was received ni the re-1 ,,lilt(1 ,.,(ator Horah was the leader for tho union. An It stood for tho
turn of the death penally. j publican convention ami adopted w ith , fur t,e we, men's plea and Senator union of states, It stands for an
The mi-u who ivmprisi d the jury ; a lew se-ntterina; "noes" and vimiat.j ) Hmoot took a iirominent part In the united people, true to American
and returned the vcida t that hent tue i in, demoiistrallon. ! negotiations for un agreement which td.-,ilM loint to Aieeil, ,.,, ira,itiu.,.a
bandits to the gallows, together with The complexion of the committee , ,i . tn,, final action. knou lntr no nll.-if ii.neo eent in ihi,
j Credit for preventing flat rejection constitution, to the government and
of the plank on reconsideration " ; to the flae of the I'nllcd Mates. We
,';;;!' Administration Is Censured by
Destroying Influence Abroad
and Humiliating Country in
Its Own Eyes, -
! HANDLING OF MEXICAN
TROUBLE DENOUNCED
Democratic Methods of Inter-
ferei.ee.- Characterized : as
"lndefcnsible";,Tariff Ques
. tion Is Treated at Length.
lav noKMim iou. triciAi. iuiii wist)
Collseuni, Chlcugo, June S. Follow.
their eiccuuHlioiis. weie as follows: 1 :is ncnerallc n garded as one which
Louis lJoriibuscli, fanner;' Wright! would not ace-e pt Colonel Roosevelt
Shaw, farmer; Sim Holstciu, livery-1 f(,r tbe presidential munimitloii, but,
man; Albert Field. t jbaccotiist ; j cn the other hand, would not insist
Geoige Jl. I'hillips, cnttleman; j tipun un agreement on Justice
George IL Alaiael, farmer; illiain : Huglies- Tho whole effect of the de-
Wells, automobile; agent; A. (S. White, j vcloinnent was to throw the republt
' can noiiiimitioii into uncertainty
the conferees report.
lh'iiieiiiMtrntteHi for RoOM-vi'tt,
until
contractor and builder; C. R. Sun
eiuist, tnecbaniciiin; Lcltoy Hon, cat
tlenian; K. M. Ci use, farmer, and C
V. Uasktn, fann r. The other principal developments j ripnt (,( tn(. individual state's to de-
e ielii t lie-avlieMt Promptly. J in the republican convention were the ,.,ie on the franchise w ithin their
It took the lily u brief thirty ruin-j adoption of tbe platform as reported j H ,0rders was evolved,
utes to arrive at the ir verdict, and its! by the resolution committee, headed i t .
aunouiiceirie'nt bufore a court room j by Senator Loeigc, a half-minute aem
pucked to suffocation wus reoelveu . onstrution for Roosevelt when his
calmly. Interpreted for the defend- name was mentioned for the first
the committee was given to teenscor believe In American pulicUa at homif
Corah, who declared that the queu- am jihf0fld
tlon wotilC be taken to the floor of the, iyoutiIou of Anuricnn Ulghls,
convention If the committee vote, ..... ,tM,.i,,r ,hu, ,,,,, , n,i
will enforeei the protection of
were overridden. This stand. It wss
declared, forced a stay of the move
ment to overturn the recognition and
the modification recognizing the
ants, they reeeive-d It without visible
signs of emotion, tine of the seven
was tried separately.
That the condemned
have e very opportunity
time in tbe convention; the perfection
of the. permanent orgmilfaUon and
itdlournnie nt until 11 o'clock minor-
nil n might ! row morning;,
of ciicaping! Senator Lodte
6 m ranis
mentioned Roose-
DEMONSTRATIONS
ARE UNOFFICIAL
'(Carranza Commander
breaks
... . r
Says,
the Infliction of the eleath penalty, Kelt's name in reading the' Philippine
end on his own initiative, F C. Wade, ! plank, which declares for the policy
Jr., an attorney of Las Cruces, ap-! insaigurati'il by McKinley and contin
peitled personally to 1'resldent Wilson,' ued by Roosevelt. The clenionlra
lollowiug the passing of the sentence i tlon thut followed was principally in
of death on the seven convicted ban-j the galleries, although it wus joined
ditn.-who were doomed to die on Fri-, by some delegates on the floor, ticn
day. Mar tj.- , ejrney v.adc skedigtoe Loi,, wel identified un a, per:
the president to iiiestlgafv the cases ritonal ftiemf of the colonel, smiled mit
with a view to ri'ionimending thut waited, and it wibsidcd in than
Gov, William C. McDonald e xtend ex-j a minute.
ecutivft elemenev in the wav of ai The Declaration for Siiffragi
commutation of their sentences to! The outstanding Incident of thoj
life imiirlsonment. In addition, At-li'ay's session came with Senator i
torney Duel R. Wood, who defended ! Lodge's announcement of (he worn-
them, made a pica lo the. governor in an suffrage plank, j
their behalf. I "The republican parly, reaffirming '
is a result of this appal, the presl- ; its faith in government of the people,;
governor to carefully' by the people, and for the people. n -
invesugaie tne- matter, i ne state e x- a measure oi justice 10 oiie-mtii en r -aK1NCI Jou.s.t wkkl luiio wiii
ecutive already had called for a trail-; the adult people of this country, ra-j j-aHl,t June S. C.cneral Gabriel i
script of the. evidence anil later made ' vers the extension of stiffrnse lo (luvlra, commander of northern Chi-'
a personal trip to Demlng. where he ! women," rad the senator, und there I nuuhini, today issued a statement in
Investigated tho cases first hand, in-j lie paused, while the suffragists be- j j,m,.ri! p, which he described the re
terviewed the condemned men, and j gan their demonstration. i cent anti-American riots In Chlhun-i
satisfied himself tiiat the prisoners' "Rut." i hua City as "entirely an uffalr of the
had had a fair and impartial trial, j "Rut." continued Senator Lodge, j ,.jtjzt.nH-'" an, pmnteel out that tho
To enable him to make a Kiarcluug i whui the noise subsided, "it "'cig- Knv rniiie ntal authorities are In no
inve'Stigation, Governor McDonald nizes tne rignt oi iaen state to seuiej countenancing them.
ine prisoners a respite until inis iinesnon lor itseiu
! There were rours of laughter at
this (nullifying phrase to what the
sunragists nan eeieiiiiiieu us a cieur- j,,. h., ,,,, ,,,. ,,....,,io" i,.. ,,1.1
cut victory und the convention ball I ,,. ' ,. lt, to t!., umnier-
ed that no nice tings of protest have
I been In Id sooner."
granted
June 'J.
The people of I liming welcomed the
investigation by the governor, feeling
that audi an inquiry would convince
the executive that justice bad been
done and that the hanging of the
bandits would I
tor their crime.
rang with tin- demonstration of thota
who approved the (nullification.
proper cNpiatiou! The temper of the convention man-I
rl leoilh ,1'MH 1,iHu.a fut ,l,al it
..not prevent the nomination of th
j"'i'e. but the development hss had
efieet f holding off the expected
jhe Day in Congress
ron-
4..M ..f tYa ennlinuerl
p I H HU"ll. . ....V v-x...."--
t'lllll 111 IU 1 UKr I I I.I o....n...v ......
the republicans.
Mr. Perkins favored postponing- ac
tion of the platform until the com-
i inlttee sent to the Coliseum had re
turned with a report.
COMMJTTFK IS
p fsKNATK..
Convened at noon.
turd,U1'"eJ at U:23 p' n'- ,0 U0""
HOISE.
e!i bllu Penalizing threats
winst the president, prohibiting the
' of luioor to minors on excursion
ilru." V"1 nhr vessels, and author
lan, onstrurtton of bridges over
'riotis streams.
fiJ""0"" introduced to thank
In v- Kovcrnmn.ti f.ir r-urtkipation
numl- hra",''"eo exposition and to
Ar-
PMav,Ur"e? at 4is, P- m- to It a. in.
XAMKJ BV KOB1XS
. Chicago, June S. Chairman Kob
ins tonight appointed as members of
the progressive committee George W.
Perkins, Gov. Hiram Johnson. Horace
Wilkinson. Charles J. ftonaparte, nnd
John Parker. N'o meeting time has
been set.
Judgeship t andidate Chosen.
Iienver. June (S. Announcement
was made today that the Colorado
Par association canvasn had selected
candidates for state supreme court
justiies as follows: W. H. Gabbert.
Charles C, P.utler, John IL Denlson, of
tienver; Charlets Cavender, of Lead
vine; Morton S. Batjey," and R. G.
Strong, of Greeley.
Sheriff Simpson limited the wit
nesses to twenty, the legal number.
Included in these were the relatives
of several of the victims of the Villa
raid at Columbus and several mer
chants who lost their stocks and
whose dwellings were looted and
burned.
Story of Crime.
Tho hanging of the Villa- bandits,
captured following the sensational
raid by Francisco Villa and his fol
lowers early tho morning of starch H
on Coluint us. in Luna county, on the
Mexican border, is another step to
ward avenging the wanton killing of
seventeen soldiers of the American
border patrol and civilians, and the
partial burning of the town ,y the
bandits.
The prisoners were tried and con
victed at the regular term of court
held in Uunung. in April. 1 liey were
ably defended by Bui I R. Wood, of
Carrizozo. appointed by Judge Kdwarri
L. Medlcr, who presided at tho trial,
to conduct their cases and were given
a fair and Impartial trial. Tbe prose
cution wus conducted by Assistant
District Attorney ' James S. Vaughl
and associate counsel.
The trial was perhaps the most in
teresting ever held in Luna county,
und though it came within a few
weeks after the e.'olumbus raid, there
was no excitement or other incidents
to work toward I he prejudice- ot the
defendants.
The state used less than out- day
to present Its evidence, the accused
bandits being tried on a special In
dictment charging murder in the first
degree for the killing of Charles D.
Miller, former engineer of the terri
tory of New Mexico, and in aiding and
abetting tbe commission of a felony.
Miller was one of the civilians shot
down during the attack on Columbus.
He was in Columbus on land business,
having arrived only Uio day previous
from hi home at Tularosa.
FIRST TWO ORPET
I well lie illustrated by
jtoward Kdwin .!. Grot-'.
their conduct
of .Milwaukee,
who as a. member of the resolutions
W TNtSSER CM I F"f) ''crnmitlee presented his own minority , ,,v
report containing pi "act ten ny an tin,
'niiich-disi'iissed proposals charactor-
tized as ullra -radical, ranging from
IftV MONNINO JOURNAL PCCIAL LIAIXD (
Waukegan, III., June 8. The first
two witnesses at the (rial of Will
Orpel. university student, charged
with the murder of Marlon Lambert,
a former sweetheart, Were called to
duy. They were J. IJ. Ford, a civil
engineer, who explained the territory
surrounding the scene of the trauedy,
and Walter McGuire, police chief of
Luke Forest, who described the find
ing of tint girls body in the snow
lust February. Ford and McGuire
were called lo the stand following the
! opening
by David
seuie innei 1 1 Ui-
K. , osivn. 1 1
conclusion of 1h
to the Jury made
who is assisting
dy. Mr. Joslyn churged Orpet with
I he murder of Miss Lambert und said
that the slate would prove the eburgo
with facts in its possession.
A number of letters from Oipet to
the girl, showing the history of their
uffertion, wire given by the state to
the defense on order of the court. j
'government manufacture of munitions
.to the initiative, the reft remliiin and
,tho recall.
j Radical Vlcu-uic-. Hooted.
! Impatient delegates tried to bowl
ihim down, but be repeatedly was pro
I tee ted by Chairman Harding, who In-
sisteel that h" should be heard. A
; chorine of "noes" disapproved of hist
j report.
! Willi llicm I In' convention referred
i contests in the italjnnal committee to
tlii; nuliofial committee Itse'f, ratified
protection of every
American eiitizen in nil the rights ae
etired to hlui by the constitution,
treaties and the law of nations, at
homo and uliroud. by land and sea.
These rights, w hich in violation of the
'.specific promlhd of their party made
at ltaltimoro la 1 K1I.. the' democratic
president and ,th6 democratic congrsna
have, failed to. defend,, j wo. will ; un
flinchingly maintain,, . s -;
Foreign Iteration.
"We desire peace, tna peace of Jus
tice and right, and believe in main
taining a straight, umi .honest neutral
ity between, the bMlhferelitn, in the
the gre'ut venr In Uurope:. W must
! perform all our duties and insist upon'
jail u rights as ncutrnjai without fear
i and-without favor, i .,-- ,
j "W1! believe that penee. and' -neutrality
as Well s the-fltgrtity and In
'flnetm; of the pu o4 ,Stto cannot
preserved by Miif ty expedients; by
phrase-niaklng, fty performances in
liinguage, or by attitudes ever chang-
Government Has Nothing to nrXrZZ
Do With Anti-American Out-; ',';:r, tZXlfZ't nLh:iaZ-;.RX'!.
'The r'p'tblietin ti.tCr la-II-Jv.-n that .'l
, I'irin, coiif isiliiI M:d vGurtfJ, te'ifc tor
eign I'olicy always niiiitiCliiieet by re
'publiiKii presidents in accordatno with
lAnu riCiin traditions, is the bent, as It.
is the only true way to preserve our
peace and restore us to our rightful
place among the nations. We believe
;ln the pacific settlement of Interna
tional disputes and favor the estab
lishment of a world court for that
purpose.
' Mexican Question.
1 "We deeply sympathize with the
fiftei n million people of Mexico who
for three years have seen their coun
try devastated, their holitwe destroyed,
tin ir fellow citizens murdered und
'their women outraged by - armed
; bands of desperadoes led by sclf-setk-'ing.
coiisi-le-ncelesH agitators who when
.temporarily successful in any locality
have neither sought nor been able to
'restore order or estublish und main
tain peace.
"U'e express our horror and indig
nation ut the outrages which huvo
been and are being perpetrated by
ivlng these bandits Upon Amei'leiin moil Ulld
today. i women w ho have been, or arc, ln
Twills, an oil operator, .Mexico hy invitation ot the laws anu
fee'ing in the city lmof the government' of thut country.
list; in tile last lew mis anil wnose rigins IP securiry or ier-
"Peoplc In the t'nlted Slates liltlc
'realize the Irritating effect of the
i III" tie nionsiranon wni'-n eiiiminiii
j eel in last night's riot began Tuesda 1
'afternoon with the newspaper ptibll--.cation
of several articles erliicizing '
j the continued occupinion of Mexican i
Vmciican troops and gathered
i volume at. a mass meeting last night,
..,.11.. I 1..- I . I ......... n.t ..
II..IIIII1 I'J l..t J 'llll'." l.liil. II limi'lu I'.'
' tier, iici ot'diiig to persons ur
from chihuahua City
P. St a n b y
Isaiit that tbi
I been mure ti
ad-
PRODUCTION FORECAST
uncontested nominations and
foiii-neil loitil 1 1 illlo, I ol'
lute's Attorney Dfi-1 u.'. , ,,f u,.. r i.n
Orpet Witli, eonvenlion salil loniubl that uu
llei-s he is overruled he will ask the
convention lo e:o straight through
'with the nominating speeches as soon
un the convention meets tomorrow;
'morning ami thai all siconding
speeches be inaile after the nomi
nating addresses hae'e been coni'lud-i
and then only by aiiangement
I lean sou and property are guaranteed by
ipolemn treaty oi, ligations. We de
before I noiince the Indefensible methods of
j Interference employed by this admin
istration in the internal uffulrs of
'.Mexico, and refer With shame to IU
! failure to discharge the duty of tube
ccuiitrv h-i ne'xt friend to Mexico, ita
duty to other powers who have relied
upon us as such friend and Its duty to
I our citizens in Alejtico, in permitting
than ut any time since the Am
troops crossed the border.
Mr. Twills also saltl that
leaving' Chihuahua City yesterday he
hud been told thai an American resi
dent uf,tht- city Inidnliol lb rev .Mexi
cans who attacked his home.
Andres G, Garcia, Mexican consul
here, commenting upon the proposal
to ubiint to arbitration the differ-
jencei between the two countries, said.
i "Anything tending lo convittco the the. continuance of fuch condltinna,
! Mexican pie of Ami r lot's g'od first, by failure to act promptly and
: faith should have a calming effect." j firmly und second, by lending its in-
li'luence to the continuation of such
I PLACARDS TORN' DOWN 'conditions through recognition of one
ed
with the. chair. About the only thing
fOOIirn Dy imm r oahi mat 'can intern re wnn uns program,
looUtU DI UNLLt oAM he said, would be a report from the
1 ROM C. S. COS LATTJ
Washington, June s. A slate de
partment dispatch today described In
detail the antl-Amc clean demonstra
tion In Chihuahua i cy, Mexico, yes
terday during which placards were
torn from ih walls of the American
of the factions responsible for these
outrages.
Promise! IToUvilem u OiUzetu.
"We pledge our aid in restoring
order and maintaining peace ln Mex
ico. We promise to our citizens on
and lieitr our border, end to those In
Mexico, wherever they may be found.
I pea
!.rMON,N. JOUtN.L.clLl...OW,l i'" ' I""''''111 I'10"" ,ri,',t' '" hl' "
Washington. June s Pr.ulnetio,, "nr placed on nominatitig
forecast? of important crops. bued fb"1" secomnng apeeenc-s win
iimiiiu lo rive miiiiiies eucn.
v conf'-renoo committee. Accord-j consulate. . Tho department Ims J10' udeuiuu'te and absolute protection in
on their condition June 1, issued to-,
day by the department of agriculture,,
shows:
Wmti'r wheat, 4t9. 000,000
Spring wheat, 216,000,000,
wheat 715,000,000.
Oats, l,265.o00,tOO.
Barley, 1 89,0011,000.
Rye, 44.000,000.
Apples, Ti'.ooo.OOO barrels.
Peaches, 42,000.000 bushel
decided whether n protest win no , h,.ir lives, iihertv and nronertl'.
made to Gcncrul Carranza. The of-j vionror Doctrine?.
In, iflciel report follows closely tne story . r,.uff,ltr our approval df the
of, the demonstiutl.m told til news , jjonioe doctrine mid decline its main-
1 ' i dispatches. tenance to be a policy of this country,
1;qI .L SI DHAtiK iOl ;N Consul Dawson at Tamplcit report-1 ef.:eniial to its present and future
,.,..., i'HRortill It is-n I DKS ! d today that he bud begun uu tnves- ,J(,ilce and safetv and to t.le achlovo-
IJIlKfie IS. 1 : ,i.., lr,.l,.J i.t ,.r..ii1:.intu tel.. .. ... . ... ... ..
nil -' "M .' "1 -. ...... i - inelll Ol lle manliest oterin.
i l. 111' Ul-o. .iuii'5 o. iTiuiian nut i , uptt-; ' s " ,"i' "3 iMte.'l-.l.Tieri It
ran a curious course today ln thn re-;io rri-suipnr v nsou. ,-ir i.ecu ct'iun.-, Kf, f a,,r u,e continuance
, ,i w a line I a It IHH aninassainir. cainn aii
nceented tfiu dcini rtincnt to dlseusa conditions ;
und
j.ubll-.
place
convention. 'First
the platform, th"n
A-oe"ia,tP of i:dj.s,n Dice.
Kust Orange, x. J., June s, Jonas
Walter Aylsworth, chemist, and in
ventor of the; fluroscopic device? for
the Xrrav. for twenty years associat
ed with Thomas A Kdison, died to
day at his home here.
as a nattv nlunk without reservation
it finally tuiind us resting place Inlitritisti
the republican resolutions as a favor-1 fuel,
ed proposition In principle, but with I
the proviso that each state should j
settle the woman suffrage Question H:,nta
for itseir.
Tlie plank offered by rthe ;newly-
fn the Tamplco oil fields on which the
fleet is dependent hugely for
We f-aor tie continuance of re-
puiill -an pedicles, which will result in
drawing more und more closely the
party, which would
republican
Incorporation I Heel
Fe, June x. Incorporation j I'hiUpPlnu policy,
papers were filed today by the Rocky
'Mountain Camp company of Anita Fc
Tbe incorporators and directors are: j
Author and Yachtsman "cad.
New York, June . 8. (.thai les
Pryer, author, yachtsman and pub
lisher, died of heart disease today at
his home here after a long illness.
His wife, one son and a daughter survive.
forme d woman s
j ".'( """'."i "J" i'u l"Frwln .1. Ward, statutory agent, twen
-' ty shares: J. R. M, Fie. Jr., and Arthur
.1 III. .Ill iin-ii l , ,t s rjv ..-,1. j ii.-i
..t..l. ...I ..... . . . ..
jllitliK iuio'itit '.imii'm inn ni'iic nr'ii ty
to the requests made in resolution
by
Notary Is Named.
Hanta Fe, June- s. Governor
Donald today appointed John J.
pey, a notary public.
Mc
Ken-
the National Ame-rie'an Woman I
Edward.
Santa Fe.
000 dividi
each one share, ail of
The capltalliiition Is $10,-
d Into H'O shares. The
Suffrage assoelatlork. As
ated in the platform the plank reads:
Ouiilll'it! Approval.
"The republican party reaffirming
its faith In the government of the peo
ple., by tbe people ahd for tho peoplo,
as a measure of justice to one-half
of the adult feople of this counrry.
fn'r.r t kin OYluiiuinvi l thfl atiffmirrt
in
I . ' l-Olll'lliy Will ,-llK.lii'-
the livery,
tourist busi-
New StiiT RceTtul.
Ienvr, June 8.' A new record
was established at the Denver stock
yards today wbeu 1,341 steers gold
for 110. 50.
! ( ommt.ri ial, financial and social rc
Haiiiins betweon this country and tha
; countries of Latin-America.
1 Pblllpplnes.
I v c rein w "iir allegiance, ro tno
inaugurated by Mo-
Kiuley, upproved by congress and
consistently eai Tie, out by Roosevelt
and Taft. Even ln this short time it
has eiiormoosly Improved the mater
ial nnd Roiiul conditions of the is
lands, given the Philippine people a
constantly increasing participation In
their government and if peisisted In
will bring still greater benefiiH in the
future.
"W- accepted the respon.vibllity of
the is'ands as a duty te civilization
and the Filipino people. To leave
with our tusk half done would break:
our pledges. Injure our prestige
among nations and Imperil what hat
already been accomplished.
"We condemn the democratic adi
