THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY .MORNING, JUNE 9, 1916.
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 22
TO
AbVUsn 31VJ.8
PROGRESSIVES
CLAMOR
ROOSEVE
CONSERVATIVE LEADERSWITH
DIFFICULTY STEM TIDE URGING.
DEIIIHI1TE ACTION
Republicans and Progressives Confer, for Peace
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
AUDITORIUM HALL, CHICAGO, June 8. After
struggling more ihan three hours today to prevent radi
cal delegates from rushing headlong into the nomination
of Colonel Roosevelt as their standard bearer, the pro
gressive convention recessed at 5:45 o'clock to 8 o'clock
tonight to enable committees of the two conventions to
meet in an effort to effect peace.
The convention re-assembled at 8:21 o'clock tonight
and at 8:38 o'clock took a recess until 10 o'clock tomor
row. The conservative leaders with difficulty stemmed
the insistent demands for the nomination of Roosevelt
before the republicans could select some one else but
finally succeeded.
Before the delegates consented to listen however,
many speakers charged that the progressive party lead
ers were dealing with thieves and could afford to take
no chances.
It was not until word came from the Coliseum that
the republicans had received the invitation of the pro
gressives to confer by immediately naming a conference
committee that the radicals were satisfied and consent
was given to take a recess.
The afternoon showed the leaders more clearly
than ever before th"at they are in control only because of
a willingness to attempt to secure peace and an unfavor
able report from the conference committee would mean
the almost instant nominat ion of Colonel Roosevelt.
7
PROGRESSIVE
PLATFORM UP
TO CONVENT!
Two Tumultuous Sessions
AUDITORIUM HALL,, CHICAGO,
June 8. The progressive national con
vention met in two" tumultuous ses
sions today and adjourned tonight un
til 10 a. m. tomorrow.
Tho principal business of the day
was the apprc.val of a plan to confer
on peace plans with the republican
convention.
Throughout the day the leaders kept
control over the delegations more by
persuasion and by constant reiteration
of Chairman Robins' promise that the
majority would decide any questions
that arose than by any actual hold
they had upon the delegations. The
same determination to nominate
Theodore Roosevelt was evident from
the time the first delegation trooped
in inertly after 1 o'clock until the last
went out shortly before nine o'clock
tonight.
Leaders made no effort to conceal
their belief that a failure of the con
ference committee to agree or to find
some possible basis for an agreement
could result in but one thing the im
mediate nomination of Colonel Roose
velt. In the words of Chairman
Robins, "tomorrow probably will be
a big day in the convention." Only
V.y many promises to place, no ob
stacles in the way of the nomination
nf Colonel Roosevelt were, the dele
gates content to adjourn and await
rcrults from ,the conferees.
The convention spent about four
hour? in session ending with a per
functory night gathering which re
sulted mostly in singing and cheering.
During the day the temporary organi
zation was presented ari(j the platform
of the resolutions committee was re
ceived, read, and made the unfinished
business.
Dean William Draper Lewis, of
Pennsylvania, chairman of the resolu
tions committee, presented the plat
form completed by the committee.
Before reading it, he said the com
mittee had tried to write a short
document and one that would take no
backward step.
Many planks in the platform were
generously applauded, especially those
on Americanism and preparedness.
The rlank for universal military ser
vice was loudly endorsed and when
the plank advocating woman suffrage
wae reached, there was a prolonged
demonstration, women delegates run-
Repubiican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 8. The Progressive
platform with its principal planks de
voted to an exposition, of American
ism, preparedness, protection and wo
man suffrage, was laid before the pro
gressive convention today. It was re
ceived with enthusiasm that presaged
its adoption with but little if any
change and was made the unfinished
business when the convention recessed
today to allow its conferees to dis
cuss peace plans with the republicans.
The'platform as presented to the con
vention follows:
This is the year of decision for the
nation's future. As we now decide, so
we shall go forward in righteousness
and power, or backward, in degrada
tion and weakness.
Of necessity, we (ipal now with the
foundations of our national life. We
are facing elemental facts of force, of
right and wrong, of extreme national
peril. Our present choice of path will
be irrevocable. The tradition of isola
tion has been ended. The United States
is now part of a world system of civi
lization. W'e stand or fall as we pre
pare to take our part in peace or war
and hold our own therein.
"We earnestly desire to keep the
peace, but there are. higher things
we must keep if we would keep the
faith as Washington and Lincoln kept
it. Pace at the price of submission
and cowardice is not desirable, nor is
it the peace of justice which alone
make it permanent. Supine submis
sion to the invasion of our rights or
indifference to the wrongs of weaker
nations, will not long maintain peace,
nor will mere threat of action enforce j
our ngnis unuer imeimiiiitti iun
There must be--an unfaltt-nng deter
mination and a personal ability to de
fend our rights and to fulfill our in
ternational obligations. In such a
readiness lies the sure safeguard of
both national honor and continued
peace. Failure to deal firmly and
promptly with the menace of Mexican
disorders has brought conditions worse
than warfare and has supplanted our
national self respect. Every resource of
government should fortwith be used
to end those conditions, and protect
from outrage the lives, honor and prop
erty of American men and women in
Mexico.
i "Whatever our country" can legitim
ately do to attain peace for war strtck
en Europe and to aid in the procure
Roosevelt Sees
No Reason to
Visit Chicago
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OYSTER BAY, N. Y., June 8. Col.
Theodore Roosevelt declared tonight
that he had nothing whatever to add
to the sentiments' expressed by him
earlier in the 'day in his message to
Former Senator Wm. Jackson of
Maryland, in response to the sugges
tion that he appear before the re
publican national convention. He still
maintains the position that nothing
has developed in the situation at Chi
cago, which requires his presence
there, and there were no indications
late tonight that he was making prep
arations for the trip.
' The - Correspondents were received
by' Colonel Roosevelt as usual tonight.
He entertained them for some time
with the story of how he shot his
first bear, nd later invited them to
visit his private den, where he dis
played some of his cherished trophies
of the hunt.
RUSSIANS PRESSING
AUSTRIANS WEST
RECAPTURING LUTSK
mm
CONFERRING
FOR HARMONY
' Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Having recaptured Lutsk, qne of
the triangle of Russian forts in Vol
hynia, from the Austrians, the Rus
sians are pressing their adversaries I
westward. In numerous places, not
only have the Russians gained the
banks of the Ikwa and Styr rivers,
but have crossed the streams and
continued their offense against their
foes.
In the region of Kovel, midway be
tween Lutsk and Brest-Litovsk and
in the vicinity ef Rovno, southeast of
the fortress, the Russians have be
gun actions against the Austro-Hun-
garians.
Likewise in Galicia there has been
no let-up in the Russian attacks
against the soldiers of the dual mon
archy, rVom whom they have cap
tured along the lower reaches of the
Tripa river heavily fortified positions.
In the fighting the Russians have
materially added to their prisoners
and their stores of captured guns,
machine guns and war materials.
Considerable activity has been
shown, by the Germans against the
Russians of the northern sections of
the Russian front, where the Ger
man guns have heavily bombarded
the line along the Dvina to the lake
region south of Dvinsk and thrown
infantry attacks against the Russian
positions south of Morgon. In this
latter region the Germans report the
capture of Kunawa, but Petrograd
asserts that all their attacks were re
pulsed. With the capture of Fort raux,
northeats of Verdun, the Germans
have attempted to advance their line
against the French east and west of
the Thiaumont farm, south of Dou
aumont. The French barrier fire,
however, held them back. Northwest
of Verdun around Hill No. 304 and
in the region of Chattancourt, the
artillery duels are still intense.
Intermittent artillery duels have
given way to vicious infantry attacks
and counter attacks by the Germans
and British around Hooge. Sapping
operations, between the Vimy ridge
and La Bassee canal and near the
Hohenzollern redoubts were to the
advantage of the British, according to
HOLD TWO HOUR
SESSION HOPING
. FOR 1101
- f
After Meeting Chiefs Are,
Unanimous in Asserting
. Conference Was Entirely
Harmonious' Roosevelt
Against Favorite Sons
(Continued on Page Three)
ning down the aisle and waving flags.
Delegates insisted that the suffrage ment 0f equal rights without discrim-
plank be read again, and another vo
ciferous demonstration occurred when
the retiuest was complied with. Still
again for the third time the con
vention demonstration the suffrage
rlank, some delegates saying that the
premature applause prevented their
haring its last few words.
Other planks loudly applauded were
those re-affirming the 1912 platform,
and those against child labor, for re-
(Continued on Page Three)
inatlon of rice or creed to all men in
all lands should be done."
Adequate provision for the common
dafense has become the task of fore
most national concern.
Beneath the structure of military
economic strength, there must be a uni
fied spirit of this cosmopolitan people,
a deep loyalty and undivided allegiance
to America, the land which has wel
comed us and our -emigrant fore-
(Continued on Page Three)
Progressive
Made
Platform Is
in All-Night Session
(Special to The Republican.)
CHICAGO. June 8. The platform
committee of both conventions worked
all Wednesday night, the special pro
gressive platform committee completed,
the final draft fur presentation to the
general platform committee at 5:30
o'clock this morning and met in con
ference with the general platform com
mittee at 10 o'clock continuing in con
stant session until 4:30 when the plat
form was unanimously adopted by the
committee and immediately thereafter
read to the convention by Dean Lewis
the chairman of platform committee.
It was enthusiastically received and
will be taken up section by section,
when the progressive. convention con
venes tomorrow morning at ten o'clock.
Local press comment on progressive
platform Is very favorable. Planks on
preparedness, universal military ser-
chussetts, Borah of Idaho, Johnson of
Ohio, and Nicholas Murray Butler of
New York.' On .receipt of the views of
favorable-action of the republican con
vention, a progressive conference com
mittee of George Perkins, Governor
Hiram Johnson, Horace Wilkinson of
New York, John Parker of Louisana
and Charles J. Bonaparte of Maryland
were appointed and went into joint
session at nine o'clock this evening.
It now seems probable that owing to
the level headed action of leaders of
both parties some plan of cooperation
may be agreed upon.
Enthusiasm for Roosevelt among the
crowds, is increasing and also 'in the
republican convention where his name
was vigorously .cheered this morning.
During critical times in the progres
sive convention today when insurgent
vice, the Mexican situation and equal ' members were in favor of nominating
suffrage will especially interest Ari
zona, -
Previous to reading of the platform,
after lively debate in the progressive
convention, the following resolution
was passed by a large majority and
sent to the republican convention.
"In the spirit of the statement ap
proved at the meeting of the national
committee held January 11, last past,
the national convention of the progres
sive party invites and requests the na
tional convention of the republican
party to appoint a committee of confer
ence to meet and confer with a similar
committee from this body."
The presentation of this resolution
in the republican convention was greet
ed with great applause and on motion
of Senator Smoot, the proposition for
a conference was accepted and the fol
lowing committee appointed: ,
Smoot of Utah, Crane of Massa-
Col. Roosevelt without delay and with
out regard to the proposed conference
with the republican convention Chair
man Robins presided with remarkable
ability and good Judgement and his cool
head has had much to do with the
present improved situation. The opin
ion of those on the inside of the repub
lican convention is that the Hughes
movement Is making no headway. A
combination has been formed among
many favorite sons delegates to stand
together against the Hughes forces.
While the republican platform was
adopted today the republican leaders
have assured the progressives that if
a union of forces can be secured they
will promptly reconsider the platform,
if desired. George W. ' Perkins and
Governor Hiram Johnson received
great ovations in the convention today,
today. j
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 8. The republican
convention today accepted the invi
tation of the progressives to a con
ference for harmony. A proposal to
that end, adopted first in the progres
sive convention was received In the
republican e-onvention and adopted
wth a few scattering, noes ana very
little demonstration. ,
Senator Smoot, chairman, with for
mer Senator Crane. Senator Borah,
Nicholas Murray Butler of Newr York,
and former Representative A. R.
Johnson of Ohio, are the members of
the republican conference committee
named by Chairman Harding.
They at once began arrangements
for meeting the progressives.
The complexion of the committee
was generally regarded as one which
would not accept Colonel Roosevelt
for the presidential nomination but on
the other hand would not insist upon
an agreement on Justice Hughes. The
whole effect of the development was
to throw the republican nomination
inio uncertainty until the conferees
report. ,
The other presidential developments
in the republican convention were the
adoption of the platform as reported
by the resolutions committee headed
by Senator Lodge, a half minute dem
onstration for Col. Roosevelt when his
name was mentioned for the first
time in the convention; the adoption
of the permanent organization and
adjournment until 11 tomorrow.
Senator Lodge mentionad Colonel
Roosevelt's name in reading tjie Phil
ippine plank which declares for the
policy inaugurated by McKinley and
continued by Roosevelt. The demon
stration that followeel was mostly in
the galleries, all of which was joined
bv some delegates on the floor. Sen
ator Lodge well identified as a per
sonal friend of the colonel, smiled and
waited and it subsided in less than a
minute.
The outstanding incident, of the
day's Session came with Senator
Lodge's announcement of the womans
suffrage plank.
"The republican party, reaffirming
its faith in government of the people,
by the people and for the people, as
a measureof justice at one-half the
adult people of this country favors
suffrage to women.
"But," continued Senator Lodge,
when the noise subsided, ,"it recog
nizes the 'right of each state to settle
this question for itself."
There were roars of laughter at this
qualifying phrase to what th6 suf
fragists had celebrated as a clear-cut
victory and the convention hall rang
with the demonstration of those who
approved the question.
The temper of the convention man
agers to hear the minorities might well
he illustrated by their conduct toward
INVESTIGATEANTI-IERIGAN
RIOTS HMIAHOACITT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 8. A state de
partment despatch today described in
detail the anti-American movement in
Ohihuahua City, Mexico, yesterday
during which placards were torn from
the walls of the American consulate.
The department has not decided wheth
er a protest will be made to General
Carranza. The official report follows
closely the story of the demonstration
told in news despatches. Consul
Dawson at Tampico reported today that
he had begun an investigation as di
rected of complaints telegraphed by
American oil operators to President
Wilson. Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, the
British ambassador called at the de
partment to discuss conditions in the
Tampico oil fields on which the Brit
ish fleet is dependent largely for' fuel.
from Chihua-
ing to persons arriving
hua City today.
P. Stanley Twells; a'n American oil
operator, said that the feeling in the
city has been more tense in the last
few days than at any time since the- tomorrow
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 9. The con
ferees of the republicans and pro
gressives adjourned at 12:30 this
morning,, after a two-hour session,
with the announcement that they
would not meet again until after
the sessions of the, convention to
morrow. The only statement given
out was that "we report progress."
The chiefs were unanimous in
asserting that the conference was
entirely harmonious. The progres
sives talked only about Colonel
Roosevelt; the republicans named
several favorite sons, but claimed
none of them above another.
While both sides reported "prog
ress," the republicans appeared to
take a more optimistic view of the
situation than some of the progres
sives, amonq whom there was far .
from a unanimity of opinion that
an agreement was probable.
It was agreed that the conferees
should report to their respective con
ventions in the morning. Neither side
was at all sure that the convention
which it represented could be con
trolled. It was understood that threa
ballots would be taken in the repub
lican convention, and without result
there should be a further conference
M. If, however, as might
American troops crossed the border.
Mr. Twells also said that before
leaving Chihuahua city yesterday he
had been told that an American resi
dent of the city had shot three Mexi
cans who attacked his home.
Andres G. Garcia, Mexican consul
here, commenting upon the proposal to
submit to arbitration the differences
between the two countries, said:
"Anything tending to convince the
Mexican people of America's good faith
should have a calming effect."
Not Government Affair
EL PASO, Tex., Jne 8. Gen. Ga
briel Gavira, Carranza commander of
Northern Chihuahua, today issued a
statement in which he described the
recent unti-American riots in Chihua
hua City as entirely an affair of the
citizens," and pointed out that the gov
ernment authorities are in no way
countenancing them.
"People irt the United States little
realize the irritating effect of the pres
ence of American troops on Mexican
soil has on our people," he said. "Al
together it is rather to be wondered
that no meetings of protest have been
held sooner." '
The demonstration which culminated
n last night's riot began Tuesday after
noon with the newspaper publication of
several articles criticizing the contin
ued occupation of Mexican soil by
American troops and gathered volume
j at a mass meeting last night, called by
La Demoerata, a radical paper accord-
Arizonians Are Drilling
DOUGLAS, Ariz!. June 8 Battery F.
Sixth Field artillery, arrived here to
day frtim Eagle Pass to reinforce the
very likely be the case, either or both
conventions should make a nomination
tomoirow, all further negotiations
would be impossible. Early in the
evening there was a report the progres
sive conferees had offered the names
of Senator Lodge of Massachusetts
and Generals Goethals and Leonard
Wood as acceptable to them, but this
proved to be untrue. No such sugges
tion was made.
With the understanding that they
should report to their conventions and
await the result of tomorrow's ballot,
the conference adjourned until after
tomorrow's session.
It. was hoped that the delegates to
, both the republican and progressive
one battery of the same regiment pre- conventions would seize the opportun
viously stationed here. Battery E of i ity to discuss the situation fully among
the same regiment and headquarters I themselves, and if no definite action
of the second batallion are enroute i wes taken on either side in the mean
here on a special train from Laredo time, the committee would be tomorrow
Texas. The First Arizona Infantry is f ln far better position to understand and
being drilled strenuously for several ; irive imnression nf the real svmntoma
hours each day, thirteen sergeant in
structors drawn from the reguar in
fantry stationed here having the drill
ing of the regiment in charge.
New Mexicans In
COLUMBUS, N. M., June 8. The
first organization of the New Mexico
National Guard today was mustered
into Federal service. Five officers and
134 men enlisted men of Battery A,
field artillery of Roswell took the oath.
Tlie mustering in of companies of the
First New Mexico Infantry probably
will begin late this week.
Amoro Sato Is Named to
Succeed Viscount Chinda
PrPtlRT MIPHIPflMQIIIATr
iiliuiii mviLiiiunii uunuuLni l
- AT DURANCO CITY DESTROYED
(Continued on Page Nine)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Tex, June 8. The
American Consulate at Durango
City, Durango, was destroyed by
fire during anti-American demon
strations, according to information
received here by army officers
tonight The rioters applied a
torch to the' building after drag
ging the flag through the streets.
morrow and prepare a petition to the
women of the United States asking
them to use their influence to prevent
hostilities between the two govern
ments.
The government of the state of Du
rango has sent a circular telegram, to
different executives calling upon them
to support General Carranza in his
demand upon the United States for the
withdrawal of the American troops.
n-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire . break of the war. . He is well known
WASHINGTON, June 8. Amoro In diplomatic circles here, having
Sato, former Jaiianese ambassador to spent a considerable portion of his
Vienna has been selected as ambas-! life in this country. He is a brother
nador to the United States to succeed; In-law of the retiring ambassador and
Viscount Chinda, whose transfer to I was his fellow student at De Pauw
the ambassadorship at London recent-1 University in Indiana
Officials are understood to regard
him as peculiarly fitted to deal with
the important problems that confront
Japan's diplomatic representative here.
Mr. .Soto's diplomatic training has
been extensive.
SAYS HUGHES
FOR
IS
AMERICANISM
ly was announced. Word of the se
lection reached Washlneton tonlsrht.
! At nrpHpnt Tr Sntn ia In Tnlrlr o ,
tached to the foreign' office where he
has been stationed since he recelvd
his passports at Vienna at the oul-
I
I CHICAGO, June 8 President
I Jacob Gould Schurman of Cornell
j University, who hitherto has fav-
i ored the candidacy of Elihu Root,
' tonight issued a statement declare
I ing that while Justice Hughes had
i autliorized no one to speak, for I
I him, from a personal audience
I with the justice, he was assured
I that Mr. Hughes was in the fill- I
I lest accord with the jssue of
Americanism and always has been I
I in sympathy with what is now the
I attitude pn'd sentiment of the re-
I publican and progressive parties. I
! I
Want Troops Withdrawn
LAREDO, Tex., June 8. Prominent
American merchants plan to hold a
meeting in St. Louis in the near future
! to prepare a petition to President Wil
son asking that the American punitive
expedition be withdrawn from Mexico,
according to a local Spanish news
paper. 1
The newspaper points out that, since
the trouble started in Mexico, Ameri
can merchants have suffered a finan
cial loss of 'more than $50,000,000.
W ithdrawal of the American troops
would tend to pacify the situation, the
newspaper says.
To Prevent War
MEXICO CITY, June 8. Representa
tives ot Mexican Labor unions at a
meeting today decided to send a dele
gation of four men to El Paso to con
fer with representatives of American
Federation of Labor for the purpose of
avoiding war between the United
States and Mexico. Women members
of the Mexican unions will meet to-
of the two conventions. The repub
lican committeemen said that during
tho meeting they were distinctly en
couraged by the evident desire of the
progressives for peace.
This was the situation, as epitomizes
hv one of the conferees after the con
ference had been in session a little
more than an hour:
The utmost harmony had reigned in
the meeting.
Republicans were impressed with the
aoparent desire of the progressives to
effect an agreement.
No name except that of Colonel
Roosevelt has been mentioned. Pro
gressives, while showing a decided
preference for Colonel Roosevelt as
the nominee, did not say they would
not -support any other man.
The name of Hughes had not been
mentioned.
Eneouraflrcl by the happy opening
of the conference, as there was a pos
sibility that the conferees would re
main In session most of the night or
until they' had reached some tangible
agreement or complete disagreement.
After adjournment, Senator Smoot of
the republican committee said the con
ference was an open, free and friendly
discussion. He added that reports to
tho conventions would be Identical.
George W. Perkins, chairman of the
progressive cmmittee, confirmed this
view and added that none of the com.
(Continued on Page Two) .
Yaqui Indians Are Raiding '
Towns in Arizpe District
' Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz., June 8. Reports
that Yaqui' Indians have been raiding
ranches and small towns in the south
ern part of the Arizpe district of So
nora, were officially confirmed he"re
today by.V. G. Lelevier, de facto Mex
ican consul. While the consul re
ceived no list of those killed by the
Indians, he said that official reports
received in Agua Prieta state that the
casualties have been numerous.
The Indians are making their head
quarters in Sierra de Aconchi, a range
of mountains near the gonora river,
anl are raiding the surrounding
i country for food and clothing.
Americans arriving here today from
Cumpas, Sonora, said that while c
prediitions had been reported from
tho section described by the consul, it
was stated that Yaquls are accom
panied by their families. . This lends
color to the belief that they are
awaiting a favorable time to leave
Mexico and follow hundreds of their
tribe who have crossed the border
recently into Arizona. After crossing
the border they are transformed into
peaceful workmen.
Mining men say that Yaqui Indians
nre steadier workers than the Mexi
cans and easier to handle. Hence all
Crossing the border are welcomed in
the camps of southern Arizona.
