B I
I Iron County Record. I
I WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER."
B VOLUME XXIII jijjo PER YEAR CEDAR CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1916. 5 CT8. PER COPY. NUMBHER 26.
I ARE fill!.: UTILITY COMMISSIONS"
:f REALLY BENEFICIAL AND NECESSARY?
i SENATOR SEEGMILLER OF
THIS DISTRICT SAYS YES
The Senator Says He Has Been
Converted to the Necessity of
a Commission, and Asks Mr.
Peet to Explain His Interest
in Opposing Measure.
, (Knnc County News.)
. L In the Iron County Record of May
6, appears an article by V. S. Peet,
i under the Caption, "As To Public
f Service Commissions."
V The argument therein used is so il-
,j.' -v logical that it is hardly worth space
fir- for any reply or comment from nny-
" ;. one whose name is therein mentioned.
- ffi Rut since Mr. Peet takes occasion to
say that I voted against the Public
Utilities Bill in the last legislature, I
' consider that I should make my posi
tion clearly understood before my con
stituents. I voted apainst the measure, first of
all, because I was not thoroughly con-
. verted to the merits of the bill as it
1 was presented before the Senate.
,', . Secondly, because it appeared to me
' that it was a simple quarrel between
the Orcm and the D. & R. G. railroads.
" and the whole argument seemed to be
based upon the question, whether or
not the D. & R. G. should unload coal
. s U at Provo to the Orcm Railroad, which
, mf'- it wished to distribute between Provo
If and Salt Lake City. Since then, the
I two railroads have becomo reconciled
ft and the Orem railroad, which was the
I force behind the Public Utilities bill
f in the last legislature, is nt this time
i r rather indifferent to the proposition of
i public utilities lepislation.
I Further than this, I have learned
1. some things in the last two years; and
'mf I hope to bo able to learn a few things
Ml i,n the next two years. Through
v ' studying the question of the public
VHK utilities commission, and watching
JH what has happened between the pub-
R-4icand eome utUMeBrIhaYe'bervmi
Vr thoroughly converted to the need of
!&, a public utilities commission in this
tVB ' state.
, jHfti Mr. Peet states that Salt Lake
MHEtf county, in its recent trouble with the
vS Mountain States Telegraph and Tolo-
v phone Company has proved beyond
If , question that a public utilities com-
1? . mission is unnecessary. Will Mr. Peet
I or anybody else argue that the best
ml way for people to settle differences be-
IlV tween themselves and the telephone
L- company is for the people to be com-
i polled to hold indignation 'nicetings, to
cut their wires and throw their phones
l' in the street, to hang phones by the
, dozens on telegraph poles; and there-
m by injure and damage tho telephone
W system and all the citizens who are
' compelled to use it, to such an extent
" that finally tho telephone company is
compelled to give Just and adequate
( i service?
', Mr. Peet also states that the thing
' ',' a public utility most dreads is com-
; ', petition by tho public. Does he mean
'"' ' that every time we are mistreated by
' i t '"' a public utility that the people must
. construct or threaten to construct a
$". in service? One would judge from the
.9 ., in sedvico? One would judge from the
"'" ' reading of the article by Mr. Peet that
the author considers that a public
I utility commission would be an enemy
to the public utility companies. That
it would only be meant to make corpor-
! ations bend tho knee. But the fact is
I I that the commission would of necessity
be an unbiased state commission ap
pointed to adjust differenced between
! ' tho public and the servants, and that it
- 4 .- would bo the duty of the commission
I r to protect tho public utility just as
jj S. much as it would bo tho duty of the
I jr- commission to protect tho public.
j i.V The point Mr. Peet malccs on the
l& ' commission being treated to American
i R Beauty and Sunnybrook ponies and
IE Royal Havana fillers, and all such tom-
j F myrot argumont, will not weigh very
(" heavily with the thinking citizen
I ,V ' Does Mr. Peet imagine for a minute
, I . that tho last legislature was not wined
I and dined and given joy rides and
; theatre tickets, and all this sort of
I I- thing, and would that be an argument
1 It for the abolition of the state legisla-
1 ? ture? And has he forgotten that the
ja ' legislature with an overwhelming vote
i- - passed a prohibition bill directly in
S opposition to the wishes of tho people
I , who were paying the expenses of the
i wining and dining and tho joyridos and
4 theatre tickets? And to say that we
a "', ennmic navo a public utilities com-
.1 ' mission that would live above such
3 j, potty bribery would bo to put an ox-
M cecdingly small measure upon man
W hood of Utah. He mentions the ex-
W penae of the thing. I don't suppose
ho has over investigated the expense
2 of tho political machines we already
V HYki Without quoting figures, I in-
i yiifiyour attention to the expense of
omTstato government, and ask you to
look In the session laws of tho last
legislature and see what tho Gover
nor's office alone Is costing us. Com
pare it with our expense of onlv a few
years ago in tho Governor's offico, anc
then compare Utah's expense for ad
ministration with othor states pf her
population and assessed valuation:
and I am Bure that you wll agree with
mo that we could very wisely reduce
these imicjiaos to a sufficient amount
(Cdlvttnu'od ou ctflurau 4.)
S. V. PEET OF SALT LAKE
TAKES A NEGATIVE VIEW
I
Mr. Peet Replies to Mr. Wood
bury, Giving Additional Rea
sons Why He Is Opposed to a
Public Utility Commission for
the State of Utah.
Editor Iron County Record. I am
very glad that Mr. Woodbury attempt
?. OM8W,or my article on a Public
Utilities Commission, because the
more the people are enlightened on
the Bubjcct, tho less will be their de
sire for one. Mr. Woodbury says:
"First let me remark that Iron
County has ten privately owned
public utilities, all working harmon
iously between themselves and their
patrons at the present time."
If tho above is true, why a Public
Utility Commission for Iron County?
Why make an expense trying to cross
a bridge before you get to it?
Mr. Woodbury further stated:
"Two months ago peace and quiet
reigned in the telephone field of
Salt Lake county, just as in Iron
county. . Suddenly an incident oc
curred, a rate adjustment, that, set
the people on fire; and Mr. Peet
tells us that at tho mass meeting
held in Murray and nttended by rep
resentatives of the telephone com
pany, 'diplomacy and argument
were thrown to tho winds:' Noto
his words:"
Mr. Woodbury, why did you not fin
ish that sentence if you wished to be
fair; it is as follows: "Tho people
said, 'we want two dollars flat rates
per month for service and free scr
vlco to Salt Lake City.' No arguments
or diplomacy were necessary, and the
neople got JUST WHAT THEY DE
MANDED." Mr. Woodbury compares a Public
Utility Commission to our Supreme
OuT-Stato Supreme Court and our
County Commissioners are elected by
the people and arc beholding to the
pcoplo for their conduct: while a Util
ity Commission is a plitical appoint
ment, and if the history of tho past
la a guide to the future our Supremo
Courts are usually fair and upright,
whilo Public Utility Commissions arc
a species of political machinery work
ing for the party that appointed them.
Mr. Woodbury undoubtedly does not
know of the far reaching and political
effect of a Public Utilty Commission.
Tho Evans bill on Public Utilities that
was defeated in our last Legislature
was copied, as Mr. Evans its author
said, from tho best bills that have
been passed by other states. It was
Senate Bill No. 4. It was so far
reaching that it makes the Govornor
of this state an absolute monarch over
our railroads, telephones, electric
lights and all other public utilities.
It gives tho Governor power to ap
point threo men who can favor or
break any public utility within our
borders. It not only reaches utility
corporations but, in nrticle 2, page
9, it "includes any and all service in
connection with the transportation of
property, baggage, freight and pas
sengers," whether individuals or" cor
porations. In article 3. "The Commission shall
have administrative power and au
thority, as provided in this act, to su
pervise and regulate all public utili
ties doing business within this state."
It not only haB power to regulate but
It can make tho "fares, tolls, charges
and service," of such utilities. It can
compel any railroad to build depots,
nut In switches, and put on or take off
trains. It can prescribe how a rail
road or any other public utility can
keep its books, accounts, and records,
and classify them ns It sees fit. In
section 18, page 18, "The Commission
or any employees thereof, upon tho
authority of the commission, shall at
any lime have the right to inspect or
oxamino any and all accounts, records,
and memoranda kept by any public
utility." It can compel any public
utility to make them maps, reports,
records, documents, and information
to suit their whim.
Section 20, page 21. "It can with
hold from tho public any facts or in
formation in its possession."
Section 10, page 29. "The railroads
cannot change any timetable or rate
of pasenger faro or freight tariff with
out the consent of the Commission."
Section 11, page 30. "Tho Commis
sion can compel a public utility to dl
vulgo any and all contracts, agree
ments with other corporations, indi
viduals or companies.
In section 10, page 31. "The Com
mission can compel a street car com
pany to issue transfers, regulato its
time schedule, and where the trans
fer shall bo made"
Section 1, page 53, "Evory public
utility, and nil officers, agents and
employees of any public utility, shall
obey, observe and comply with evory
order, rule, direction or requirement
mado by the Commission." Those
who do, not will be guilty of a mis
demeanor. And, in fact, should tho Evans bill
have becomo a law, tho railroads and
other nubile utilltloa would have no
rights tliat u utility commission Would
-
9
I HARK! LISTEN! I
The Mountains are Calling You
Summer is nigh and you will want a trip or two into
the canyon and mountains. A little effort will make a good
road up Coal Creek Canyon. Some of the most beautiful
scenery in the world can be reached within an hour or two
from Cedar City. Why not make Cedar City the Hub of
Southern Utah the center of a large tourist business?
In addition to this, the making of a good road up our
canyon will open for our use more than 20,000,000 feet of
choice saw timber, sufficient to supply the local markets
with native lumber for centuries to come. All that we need
is a good safe, practical road to haul it over.
Besides this there is the coal traffic, the dairy and ranch
s
business, both of which are important anns of industry to
this section, and all of which will be vastly benefitted by
the construction of this road.
The Mayor has declared next Wednesday a holiday and
would like every available man and boy with pick, shovel
or team to work on the Canyon road that day.
The good roads movement is becoming popular every
where. The cities in the northern part of the State have
already set apart a numbr of days for the improvement of
roads. Let us not be behind the procession. A little help
from each of us will make a great improvement in our roads,
and everybody will be benefitted thereby.
3!?cItirise.ectedtha
provide and serve an appetizing lunch to the men and boys
participating in the work on the road, and it is expected
that the occasion will be pleasurable, as well as profitable.
Remember the day and date next Wednesday, June 14.
For further information consult the Committee:
JOSEPH S. FIFE,
E. H. MACFARLANE,
SOLON J. FOSTER.
bo bound to respect.
Now, does Mr. Woodbury desire to
have such a piece of political power
over the "Ten privately owned public
utilities in Iron county, all working
harmoniously between themselves and
their patrons." Salt Lake county has
solved the problem. The County Com-!
missioners in their last ordinance on
tho telephone situation provido as
follows:
A portion of section 111:
Nothing in this section contained
shall prevent the board of county
commissioners from approving or
fixing the rates,, tolls, rentals or
charges, from time to time, in ex
cess or less than those shown by
said schedules.
Sec. IV. Unless the board of
county commissioners otherwise or
ders, no change shall be made by
any telephone company in any rate,
toll, 'rental, charge or classification,
or in any rule, regulation or con
tract relating to or affecting any
rate, toll, charge, classification or
service, or in any privilege or facil
ity. What more can Salt Lake county
ask and what more does Iron county
need and this without tho expense of
n utility commission? Mr. Woodbury
further states:
"Many of our utilities are inter
country in their operation and could
be better handled by a state than
by a county commission."
I will go further and say that most
of utilities are inter-state, and could
be better handled by tho United States
Interstate Commerce Commission. I
am very glad to quote Mr. Woodbury
again as follows:
"Since its organization tne com
mission has been a source of net
revenue to tho state. The receipt?
of the State Public Utilities Com
mission of Illinois from January 1,
1914, tho date of its beginning, to
February 29, 1916, a period of 2fi
months, amounted to $835,690.69.
the grand total of expenditures for
tho same period amounted to $614.
132.82. This leaves $321,656.87,
which has been paid into tho state
treasury through tho commission,
over and above all expenses."
This Bhows that Illinois Commission
cost over $257,000 per year. Now, Mr
Woodbury, who pays it if not tho peo
pie? All corporations base tlieii
charges, on tho cost of operation. Whr
pays tho lc. revenue on a telegram 7
Tho telegraph company? Not one bit
of it. It la added to tho cost of the1
dlBjibtck,
In tho case of tho Illinois Commis
sion, what an opportunity for graft
and hold-up when three men can
!?n a J1 from Publ,c utilities over $417,-
000 in one year, and no one but the
commissioners know how much more.
1 hope Mr. Woodbury will attempt to
answer this, as there is so much more
on tho subject that tho people should
know. Yours trulv.
V S PEET
Salt Lake City, May 22, 1916.
(Continued from column 1.)
.unBiovldo th? exPenao of public
utilities commission, without increas
ing our burden of taxation, to say
nothing of what tho public utilities
commission might auve the public in
the adjustment of differences and tho
reduction and control of rates and
charges. It would not bo extravagent
at all to say that tho commission could
save to tho people the amount of its
running expenses. In closing, I wish
to say that I, have become converted
to a public utilities commission, and I
hope always to be liberal minded
enough to accept tho right when it has
been shown and can bo understood.
I should like, also, to ask Mr. Peet
h. Limi 80 act,Yc,y "Prosing a pub
lic utilities commission. Is it because
of his lovp for tho public, because of
his great intorest in their welfare? or
could it bo possible that he is employed
by some corporation? I remember
very distinctly that he spent many
days and weeks in the last legislature
SJ.WF a'fa,n8,t tho nubile utilities
bill. Was this simply because without
remuneration he was willing to work
tor the best interests of the peoplo, or
was ho employed by somebody to do
what he could against tho bill? Nat
urally, we look to tho motive, and if
Mr. Peet would, he could easily Bet
our minds at rest on this point.
W. W. SEEGMILLER.
BASE BALL GAME TOMORROW,
PAROWAN VS. CEDAR CITV.
On Saturday afternoon at 2:30 o'
clock, tho Parowan and Cedar City
base ba 1 teams will clash again on
the local diamond.
Tho boys.havo been working hard
to givo. Cedar City a crodltablo team
Us year. They havo doho their part
and are d6pending upon tho town to
support thorn.
this year. They havo dono thoir part
the year if tho town doos not rally to
the support of tho team.
Admission: Adulta 25c., children
10U
COMMISSIONERS
REUSESSM
Met Last Monday and Disposed
of Regular Budget Before
Meeting ns a
BOAD OF EQUALIZATION
TO ADJUST ASSESSMENTS
Have Been Kept Busy Considerable
Portion of the Week in This
Latter Capacity.
The regular meeting of the board of
County Commissioners wns held Mon
day evening in the court house. Chair
man Henry W. Lunt, Commissioners
Knell and Evans, Attorney J. H. Fife,
and Clerk Mitchell were present. Tho
following business was transacted:
Mr. Edwards and Wm. P. Barton,
members of the Paragonuh town
board, petitioned tho commissioners
for tho sum of $80, which wns paid
to the county somo twenty years ago
from a sale of town lots in Parago
nah. The sale was mado during the
time that Daniel Pago was Probate
Judgo. The petitioners were of the
opinion thnt the amount was still in
tho treasury, and they desired tousc
it in tho improvement of sidewalks
and Btreets if It were obtainable. Mr.
Barton also asked for tho privilege of
using the Paragonah poll tax for 1916
on tho BtrcetB of their town. Tho mat
ter was referred to tho county attor
ney, with instructions to report on the
samo'at the next meeting of tho coun
ty commissioners.
It was reported that tho road whicl
had been designated as a county road
from Paragonnh along section lino to
Intersect with the road leading to the
gatts-for teams passing through. The
citizens who mado tho report asked
that the fence bo removed, as tho road
would bo used to reach tho Parowan
Lund road. This matter was referred
to Commissioner EvnnB and tho road
supervisor, who wore to make an in
vestigation and report at next meot-
Commissioner Lunt reported that
Mrs. Jano Pryor of Cedar City had
been allowed a remittance of taxes in
1914, but for somo reason did not got
the benefit of it, and being unable to
raise tho full amount of her tax, the
property waB sold. Mr. Lunt recom
mended thnt an appropriation bo made
sufficient to redeem the property.
Commissioner Evans made a motion
to this effect, and snmo was carried.
A communication from the State
Road Commission suggesting that
$2,500.00 be set aside for road pur
poses by Iron county, to insure thr
state expending $5,000 on" roads in thiF
county, waB read, arguments were
made pro and con, and finally a mo
tion was made and carried to set the
matter aside.
A delegate to attend the State Road
convention was talked of, but no ac
tion was taken in tho matter.
Mr. Lunt read a letter from the
Secretary of State in regard to un
collected automobile taxes, Iron coun
ty appearing to bo nbout tho only
county in tho stnto in arrears on this
matter. It was decided to instruct tho
sheriff and roud commissioner to in
form all auto owners to secure a li
cense at once.
Many of tho tax payers of this
county havo failed to pay thoir taxes
for tho past year, bo tho treasurer was
instructed to collect same by law. In
tho event that a seizuro of property
be necessary, tho sheriff was instruct
ed to assist tho treasurer.
Scott Mitchell, agent for tho Max
woll car, disposed of ono a few days
ago to George Rasmusson.
Mining location notices arc still
pouring into tho county recorder's of
fico. Tho fees for tho offico for the
month of May were tho largest by
far that have ever been turned to tho
treasurer through tho recorder's office.
PAROWAN NOTES
Mrs. E. A. Burton and two little
sons, Mrs. Sarah Orton, Enoch and
Joseph Rasmusaen, are visitors in
Salt Lake City this week.
Mr. O'Ncil and S. A, Higbce of
Cedar City are in Parowan canyon
'working on their potash claims. It
I is their intention to drlvu a tunnel In
to the potnsh formation to get Borne
samples for assay purposes,
I
I Tho stork vialtwl tho homo of Geo.
i Ko witty Julia 0th, letivfnsr a bby Wy
-
LANDS ELIMINATED" I
FROM DIXIE FOREST I
Large Area in Arizona Held o be ,
Improperly Designated, Returnn H
to Public Domain. H
On May 10 tho President signed a Ef
proclamation, tho effect of which fstS 1
cstsl &.&W Ui ,D,xie Natl0n For-
est situated in Arizann and Utah, over H
one-hnlf of the lands embraced there!
Moron d'mlnntlons, which total iH
688,520 acres, are all mado from the M
S n.lZi,a dIvi8lon,3 of thIs rest
The area known as tho Pnrashont di- M
vision, consisting of n block of land H
wJl iGrar ,Fany,on of tho Colorado , M
River, is abolished, and this entire H
a8?8t05edi t0 th,, Public domain; H
The other Arizona division of the for- I H
est. known as tho Mt. Trombull di- i H
vision, nnd also partly bounded by tho v H
Grand Canyon, "lias been greatly re- mM
duccd, all but about 28 sections being H
eliminated. Tho lands retained in M
this division, as a part of the forest, H
compriso the well timbered portion M
and includes lands on which are Bit- H
uatcd n number of small sawmills. H
The result of tho largo elimination is M
to restore to tho public domain n con- H
flidcrablo area which the forest ser- H
vice has for somo tlmo felt could not ,mM
properly bo rotnlned ns part of a na- tH
tloal forest, since tho lands affected mM
wero found to havo littlo or no vnluo ' H
for timber or watershed purposes, but H
to bp really valuable only for stock iH
grazing. rH
Tho proposal to make this elimina- H
tjon was opposed by tho majority of i mM
the users, who desired to have tho H
lands remain within tho forest in or- H
dor that their cattle might grazo un- ,mM
der government regulation. Becauso H
of tho manifest non-forest chnractcr JH
pf tho area, tho Secretary of Agricul- M
ture determined to recommend its re- H
lcasofrpm national forest form of H
reservation. The Utah division of tho ,M
DixIeBltuated north of St. Gcorgo, is $ 'H
not, affected by the present proclama- H
tion. Two small nrcas of national ' H
forest lands in southern Nevada, in r
'he vicinity of Las Vegas, known as H
'the Moapa division, and formerly a , H
oart of the Tolyabo forest, are trans- H
ferred to the Dixie forest by this same 1 ,H
proclamation. This action is taken H
IiyrjeJjijKcmiae.'.of admlnUtrative-rre n -. ''fH
quircments, since it Wound that these - ,- iH
areas could bo more prpperly and moro , h
economically Buperviseaby tho for- IH
est supervisor nt St. George, Utah, ' v lH
than from the Tolyabo headquarters at jl
Austin, Nevada. H
Parowan Dramatic Poorly Patronlcd. H
"Young Mrs. Windthrop," the play lH
presented by tho Parowan Dramatic (H
company at the Ward Hall last Tues- iH
day night, was very poorly attended, (H
the receipts being entirely insufficient iH
to defray the expenses of making tho H
trip. , jH
The play, nevertheless, was a very il
good one and presented in first-class ,1
Bhape. Thero wero really no poor ' yH
characters on the cast, and tho pro- IH
duction would compare favorably with Ul
any that uro given by traveling com- tll
panics making this district of coun- i gH
try. It deserved better patronage. iM
Wo are informed that the young i H
people spent a month or more on the . f
production, and gave it as n ward and ll
stake benefit for tho Primary organ- ' IH
ization. Naturally they felt disap- ?H
nointcd nnd crestfallen that their ef- ll
forts should havo been so poorly ap-
prccintcd hero.
Among tho leading characters wero ', M
Will L. Adnms, who stared the n-?r-
formance; Mrs. Eleanor Rruhn, Mis !l
Pearl Rose, Miss Miriam Burton. Toy- H
lor Miller, Winston Orton, and othcrp. H
We presume that the season of tho , M
year had much to do with the slim H
attendance, which, none the less, wo ll
sincerely regret. M
Lcigh-Burby Wedding. H
It was somewhat of a surpriso to lH
many of their friends when it was 'H
learned laBt week that Mr. Trcharno H
Leigh and Miss Cathrine Burby, who H
had been keeping company for several H
months, had gone to Salt Lake with H
tho intension of being married. Tho' H
ceremony that made them man nnd M
wife wns performed in Salt Lake City. . H
and they returned home tho first of rl
this week, appy as birds in the spring ll
time. H
Trchnrne is a son of Daniel T. Leigh . mmf
of this city, nnd is highly respected in 'JtXI
the community. Ho performed a mis- 9mm,
sion a few ycarB ago, and has Binco JTSSs
been connected with the Mutual Im- K&8$
provement work in this stake. , Ossl
Miss Burby was a teacher in tho 8r jWn
public schools of this place tho past " I : I;gp
winter. Her homo is in Wisconsin, i Lg-'. -'
but sho haB becomo woll known nnd ' jfit..J
universally liked hero. The Record Wj'k
wishes tho young people a long and ) Vw?
smooth voyage on tho eea of rnatrj. i ; 8jM ;
raony. !. ,$
Dr. Maciarlano wa3 called to En- r I !T:
torprisa a few days ago to seo a pa- i tsityii
tient, whom he found to bo in so ser- $S ., Wffi'U
ious a condition that ho took her into -!' ' $)
Salt Lako City to recelvo attention. ; UH&S
The doctor has not yet returned, and --
particulars are lacking. K
and the mother and child aro reportod jl
to be doing nicely. Mr. Rowley is not, !
at home, being engaged in work upon HH
tho road. '" ' BH
John T. Mitchell has sufficiently re- iH
covered from his injuries to bo ablo IH
I to leave his room and is improving flH
I lowly but Murvly. i H
