IjttjM GUARANTEES
iSfG AND BINDING
...thin fr m ft visiting card to i
A3 lio '1 1unllt of work 6
.thit r- athfnctor Mtho
' ki certificates nnd on
l"'7nJ B0,,s nnd tU "k
fVtef m sheep tags ftnl vor
Sf in met i goods t right rltc
Jn7n I"" I riming Is done The Sui
-m da It
lid WOMAN
IS FOUND DEAD
rtii 'i1' '" u "H ,s -ON
slltlUtm "' A Ml 8TI-.lt V.
Mho On ItcntliliiB Home Wetl.
trt)tJ truing 1 ImU III Vft Un-(wedoii-
tHin Ilia lloor Kiplrrn
In li Minnie Cua of Dentil
i M)n r to tin TlijMclnnn.
Jlitj Al """ "r ""' AIImi. wun
41x1 desd ' the floor ' hir ld
nilil nit II 30 o'llotk hint Will.
slir mrlnK nl llilpcr Albn, ulio
,m ll hilt and who ki nprnll) nr
n . hoinr ut itlioul llu- hour Mated
tpmhuarrltal nt thin limn found Hip
tr kicked Th Ik wim not uminunl
iihlnwlfr wnn In thr Imlill of locking
ty doors riiD nlKht nfiil whin In
irmnl hmne she Rencntll) Rot up to
H him In On Widnindn) nlKht
Wittrr llnrr wan no response to
jutot rrlicnlid knockH for iidmlt
user Healing hln 14-montliMild
set? ir) Ing nnd fiellng Unit mum
inf in iiini.'K lit lookul ihroUKh nn
tjttrit In llu wlndiw hitmen the
llt4 nl frame nnd nulUiil IiIh
Ui feel On position Indli-ullng
iltlihe wnn I) Ing on the floor (VII
ai t i hmi t pits. rl) hi hrokp Into
kchnuw n nil ii h tin- womnti linn In
Kf liftr.1 onto the Itrd hIio i xplrctl
iikvut tutting 1'iin "I'll to my mi)
UUec t "hilt nilrot lur ill nth.
It V It 8lopnnki) Him liumndluli
y iiimniunrd, hut It wits too late
Tritrrils) hold Dr. Hltipunnkc) nnd
r. It NiIit of Ciisllr (Into lit Id
utBlu lul wire umlri l.lrd un to
dkraaw of diulh nnd the nt ndlng of
At drnl woman's Mimim It to Hlute
cvmM llrrmnn llurmn In In lure s. rl
ilrtnnlilrrrd
Count) Mtotnt) I'outM nnd Dtpul)
Ihrlft Itkh unit to llulptr )istir
hi to hhuU Dip dttlidon uf tho two
trtio. .So niiii ft Iiiih Imi n urdi r d
I lh reason that Hunt l jhl olid-
of mis foul piny hilling luiii
On lh inning of llif woman n
nth. the had hern sitting on In r
iwnh fur nornp tltup with n
fciihior tr llnwkliiK. nnd up
putt iiullt ihurful, hut nt nhnut 9
VKk thr Miitld Hint hIip uolild rr
'Jhc did not ful (iiillf w II Mrn.
IUkln mt hittnv nnd Mrn. AIImi
'! Into htr Iioiiup onl to ho found
wt tliK ulnt of death.
From Inforiimtlon ohtnlmd h tin
-Nr.1) attorn.) It U hillnvul tlmt tin
mwiu Khn in i,t ,t out nf lur
tuB. hail Imcimiii! diNpondont or
"f(t tht nlu won nitiiln to huoinr
mothtr nnd tlmt nlip hud tuki n
B4lclne to pnnt nuili n lulmlnn-
nJ that IhU mi illi Inn i thp
of her death.
ihln Iiiih him found tlmt would
Wutr thnt nlip lirul un driiRH In
r IxnrrMlnu, hut Hip ri nprnl on
'"""ii l thut drnth n uiuned h)
" nuh midliliiP nn nhn ntrrnl
" lm mneii io lur m iKhhorn thi
witlm oh.. t,,H In nnd In r ai rnlnn
lnK throiiRh the trnMill of thlld.
wn oner nirnln
... !.' u ,"" ilouRhtir of Mr
'' Jimicr Mnrttllu mill tho
J wr hiiklmnd nn. nlmunt dlntriiit
n tin I n of tin Ir duuRhti r anil
.J""!'1 "l'in wire hi Id todn
M writ, crowd followed thn fiiiur.
"MrlfKe to ih(, cemptrry In llilpir.
iw cratli him npnnd u Rlonm nvor
""'nliro lommunlt).
"""I Wll.h CKI.KIIUATKi
(OMMITTriW AI'I'OINrlH
"Mr x w llorntp hnn nppolntul
"n.mi piiinniltipo to nrranKo fur
l"'l'r i.lndnitlon i.f Indcpcnd-
!?-. T'" numlKM df thin torn-
W p n.r" iUlK - "oKinnnn, Mrn
uri , ',n M OMvc Mlllhuin. J I'
vnlKhi j Ux MlUfrrlntt Oil-
ihI w McKfnnnnJ
'"" ""niiiltlui In nnkiirlo mi.t un
I -inif In order that llin nr-
""nt for a rounltiR "rourth'
TW 'Mirud iarl. TIip will ml-
wim it "w" ll"l"""'''' nil "III P-
i inc tiirioua miii.ioinmlttiiHt on
rth l"n,,r"tliHnc nt, punidit tmd no-
mL !'.'" J"'" W mionr in
h"? "."" ""' iltlienn of I'rlm Kit
iMr?,. . ""' '""nnlltctH with tlulr
n( ! mid moral nupport nnd help
,. no mik u,t 'tumliiB mlnlinitlon
"i ci r
N"TI'! lTtll(i:VAMIM.U
"i hrim i) iii.i'oiii: mn.
wjj ''""l nf Ktmmurcr. Wjo.
'ulin ' "lu "" rr Coul und
4 oth "' '" n,ul ", u ,"r'" ovvm r
.ui''""! PropnrtliH lu that ntntp.
re ? ll Wcdnendaj. With him
"He J N,,ll of tho Conlril Coal
q A .,' "'inpnnj of W)omlnR and
irnjJLn, r,h' T ni!lnrer of tho
t kt o nt c,,ul '""I Coke i ompin)
tni i v ,r,h " Thurda tho part)
-uth ."'"''mohllo to Hurw. Canjon.
"kin Kl"nnldi)1 tu Innptit Wine
'feth,!."' lluul ' M thought proh.
"idtr , ",m "Ib !' proposition U
"rtiiTi-.. J'" ,,0Unt of worth In ad.
uh ,, Thv rcanonaule thine In for
' m!.i l0 ul.ovor Junt what will
"mi..i """'nU vnluahlc lit that
""iiilwrtwinir
BJLj AND THIRTEEN HUNDRED CIRCULATION EACH AND EVERY WEEK OF THE YEAR V
I xfSfinHW fe ' LEGAL BLANKS 'M
I I llnSHS3P !-2 III III 111 HI Tl" s"" "hi I" Mock nil lcgnl iiHii
ilk 111 . WLvJJSlcflTifWaUyi) II Jll II II hlnnkn romnionb in ue decdn. mort- AtM
T SSTmT T VTtZ S2KmSV JWnAISv L vlL Knit.- Imnllon nutum lpne. con- i'H
nt -s- . i frf)" rjP 'p' p T tru tn nnd Hit llki The mint com- fM
DOI ITIai I v r-i r r-i ii r- t I'l'ti ft. k In I.aMirn I tnh Ordera ilH
, ,. , , ULITICALLY. REPUBLICAN. mini nnd ...all-.l H,p da) received.
- m red u tu. iJ t a Matter j.m. i mi . .u ., . .,. . 11 Tin Hun fill )our legal l.lunk or- JH
VOLUME 2- M'MML'H n ' ' th0 -t0'c"'t Trice. Utnh. Cnder the Act of March 8. 7 ,(rn When It It. r printing nnd bind- liB
jgj-.-, EVERY FRIDAY " JUNE 9, 19115 '"'-' T"-"" "" " .
I uj , ijm,,"' HE ALLUDING TO?"
COMMISSIONERS IN REEULRR SESSION
M MEEIING1S BOARDEQUALIZATIOIt
Tin 1 1 ml ' i iinn i iinmlrfliiii.ru
mil TiuxIj. with nil ninnlKrn pnn
int linn Mim m inmh hiirinrin on
Imnd tlmt llu Hlin wan mlindid
Into U'iiIuiihI.i) when tin) ndjiitirnid
In iiiih tin Immu.I nf etUMllutloii
The Inmrnnu on lb iiunl fimrt
houm iplrlng on Juni lh It wnn
diMld.il to dUtrlhilli thr lift) thoun
and d-illnm Hrrl.il I.) tin . oiint)
ninnm? thi following hm niUn Tin
thiiiiiiml with Hill i r Hutc Imnk
tin HiiHtMiiitl wllh MiKlnni.n ami (III;
moiir flfluii HiouMinil with J W
lluiumond and flMun HioUmiiiiI with
llnui. Tin Innuranci tonin
I'm hIM for wnrranU of tin H"
190 l0!i 1910 nnd lH if '
1 1 lli d h) tin ordt-r of the hoard n
pro) Id. d I) law ....
Tin llrm of urhI IMIUIU o.
whh h wan aulhorli.il to limtull the
l,i tt n) Mi III of keeping iheik oil til.
lumU IIhI'Ii t" Hneewnii lit anil Hie
prop.r notation., on Hip ll "J
hoiniliinl in.UHii iillolimntn. ilt
laud, eoal land Umln r Mono mid
mrlp nppllmllun. "' ""I"1" "
llu lHwr.1 und dillvirisl the muiHi.
plain and Ihk.I. p.rlalnlng t H m
HiMini iMinltx tliourmigl) .xplaln.
id tin njMim and Hip lommlnn Innirn
und iiitml) HNHiMMir were will pliaml
with It h It Mmpllflpn malttrn pir
talnlng I" lh. .nlimllmi of proper!)
irlo imnplng anmnmnunt nnd nl
i 'if "aluahU -WHr "1,-'r'''''rf
und in Hip " riHonhrti offl..'
H i iHM.kn and a warrant wan ;Tlrl
Mil.. I l I'"' t' f,,r thP ?m
'.Tills 00 whh h wan III. wim '
forunil.rth iira.l l.h Hip
"itipi.M.ilailv.- of Hi. W,J,',
Mi, rito.k ,i.mpn w.re '''"
muting aklng If -i"""""-- ""
I l Pltl. hl'ltUI!-s lH
,,N,"'s Mlt lON l."
KI'ASIHII I HK Jim" b lh
run. ml r Mr. Mur K Kiann a renl
"lh HimnWi I'ork Mnco I80 ..
Ul Stur.li t the hum, of lur
J,.n Ikiijamln i:hii B1, w!
"".la! "mrno.m In the I'ourth ward
J, UUII.m "rotet... Thypiak
rn win IMMil WlllUmn. John Moor,
ami Al . M H. iim p! " "'
I I -i i.i William Holt nnd IM MI
iamn Th ma.lon wnn offend I.)
Cm t'rr ml Alton William, pro.
nounud th.. lK.neUI.llon Interment
iv m iii tint Clt) lemcter) ,
. I'iniii Kaus ,,orn '"
JSSf.i5iK. " iw"" "
i;rnndthlldren
Ii doiii to tffrit u MilHtmint on the
amount or tax, n nnw dun for tho
eiim lull nnd IDIE Thn mntler wnn
r. firrul to the toiiiit) nttoriie) for
mil lu
The riHirtn of Hi, trenntirir, il.rk.
recorder, nhcrlff. nn will m thoio nf
llu JuMlten of Hip p.miu of the cotlli
I) wen npproiid nnd filed Tho re
H.rt of the tree Innpeitor wan nlnn
aiieplul and fill .1.
The hand nf Horticultural Inspec
tor II (' Hmlth wan npproied nnd
uHin Hip ruiuent of Hherlff llenr
Hmlth wun uinflrmed In hln appoint
in, nl an court hulllff.
Mrn. 1'itcr Itowme of Hilper. who
uunmimnltd Hherlff Hcur) tn I'roiu
whin he miort.il Mrn. J, II Vlgmttl
to tin ntutu mintnl hnnpltnl, tirriH.nl. d
it hill of IIS SO to thn lHiar.1 for hi r
...rili on Thin the hoard rut to 13 SO
At Hip nuent of Mm. I'lor, me Al
llwin. matron of tho count) honpllnl,
tin commUMomrn deildul to furnlnh
the eMiihllnhment with n m w rnngi,
an thn old on, wrun uimplct, I) hurned
nut
On Wednciwln) for, noon the hoard
adopted thi following r. notation
'That Curium count) leiy a ntntu road
tax of one mill to rulnu fundn for ntatn
nmil purp.iMn on all or the prop, rt)
In Curhon count) for thn )nr 191."
And uuordlng to the proililnim nit
forth In a law pumid lu 1916, which
rniulr.n the count) iiudltorn to crrtlf)'
to Hip iirwineid Mililiillun of till, coun
t). Hi. Mate road hi) In mllln and the
amount or taxm to ho derlicd rrimi
Mid hi) Hip tl.rk wan notified to nu
do mid no liollf) Hip Mnto hoard
Th.' IxHird alno Inntruitrd th. clerk
to imtlf) Hip ntalp rond commUnlonern
nf Itn upproinl or Hip reHolutloiiH
IKIhwiI h) that hod) on !', hruar)
:sth
Aft. r nllowliig th. inllinin hllln tin
hoard n.ljoiirmil nuhjut In cull
Tin rohlnn und Inrkn and npirrown
and Ja) hlrdn und other munhtrn of
th. fpatlu r trlhe that uaiiall) gatlu rn
to eutell Hip worm that In Mil) tnouhh
to get up ut u rldluilounl) eierl) hour
no that ho can hi caught, not up u
hl.leoun ehattir lunt Wednewda) morn
ing wh. n nlxtreii )ouug Hon Hle
glrln Inindcd tho clt) park at ulxiut
g o'clock. Hitch llhertlcn huc imi.r
hefore hpen taken with that namtuar)
at niiili un pari) hour. In npllo r tha
hlldn prnti Mnllonn, hnueiur, tho
i,lrW, who had taken with them
cooked und uncooked iluntln, pro
ceeded to net up a enmp ntoio and
make n lire It took them hut it nhurt
Itlinn to pnpure u nnor hreakrant
jwlilih wau w.gcrl) dn-ourcd h) nix
.teen keen npprtlten sharpened h) thei
esirl) morning air. Thin gathering
wan arranged an a farewell uffalr for
'Minn Mar) Ma thin, who will loao
Inhorll) for Halt I.ako Clt, and It wun
' a great auccpno. Tho oung ladles re
I port n 'dandy' tlmu and whin the)
lilt thi purk at 9 o clock tho hlrdn
nwooped down on the irumlm that
were left from tho mornlng'n feant
nnd fenentl) prn)cd that thin kind
ot entertainment would ho repeated
nt an earl) datu.
i Thn man who keeps doing Utter
uditttUlng will le Hblo to keep doing
licit, r hunlnew
SIX ARE KILLED
- ANDJIX HURT
i'Assi.m.i.u cmiim; mis muiik
1IIMN (IV MIUMi.
i:iiln.iT, rin nun. nnd I'our 1 npun
en Crn-liul lo Ifcnlli In HallnKiil
Wntk At Colton cclilint hnld in
llnio lie. it C'niixil lljr llrokiu IIimI
(In InM-oniolhi. Turning Suite ti,
i hi: ih'mm.
. M. (UMI'IIHI li, Ogeleu, I'liglii
i r on Mtkxngrr train.
uiij.um Hiii:iri:n, opim,
fin man on paenxr train.
rioin cochiixm; nitu, i.mu,
lrpiUNM r.
J. I. MIlSAIIW, nulla-, Tex., tn-.
UIr.
HXIIIft l.t'MKlltHN, Imi.nui,
Uiif.li., i ni im r.
JOIIV (.OOlH'XSTHIti; nllu, la,
inpniMT.
'I III. INJUIII'lF.
rlhur Jiiimii, Ogdrn, mail tl.rk.
. II. IIuImimI., Ogiltii, mall clt rk,
. 'IS. .n.u, SliMktou, Wa-li,
triaMr.
I. M, WuIIii-m, Sniniiiiioto, Cnhi ,
lniuM r,
(', (, CurlMiii, Armliip, )o, inn
piif. r,
(nrl IU lilt rt. Sail UiUo ( It), inn.
luiHser.
Six iniit win. klllrd nnd solvit
oth. rn morn nr lonn neriouxly Injured
an Hid renult of tho derailment of
Duller and ltlo (Irnndu fant cxprenn
train No. IS, Went lound, at Colton,
nhout 1 30 o'alnckTuenday mnrnlng.
I'lu of the incn vtrn killed limtnntly
and William Tfeiltaef fir, fireman on
the III fated train, died from hln In
jur I. uhout 8 o'clock tho name morn
Ing "
The Injur. .1 mien are now nit tho
I road to recour). No pisncngern i.er.t
.Injured. The cauno of the derailment
I han not heen determined, hut In he.
lleicd to lime, heen canned hy u rod
coming down on one of the englnon
and catching In tho nwltoh ut tho
went und of thn Colton puulng traik.
The total iliinm'.o to track and upilp.
mint In entlmutid ut more than tlilr
teen thouxand dollars
IMttuiotltPH Ottiiiirmil,
' The trpln huh nuicrnl hourn la to
und uitr) pound uf ntcam wnn helng
. utilized to makp up Ion time when
I the accident occurred The lend en
CITY SEEKING BIDS ON I
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT I
Council Asks For Bids On Operating Plant I
For Six Months Commencing July 1st ' H
Other Business Transacted. ('H
Ill.h. will 1 1 nnknl for h) tin I'rlu
ill) pi.un. II for Hip op. ration or Hip
cltyi .liflrli llghr pUnt und th.c
l.l.ln inunt hp III life liAniln or tin ell)
rcvordtr not Inter ljit June 30 Ivti
Thi pniH'iit iiiitri.it with the I'tnli
Tower nnd Mght iniiiiNin) xplren
Juni 3Uth nnd Hip .ournp thn rountll
look wnn in'iiHwrj In order lu niohl
the rem mil of thl eontniil for an
..tin r nhort period Tin hldn for Hip
operation of the plant, iniiM, howiiir
he uceomiHtiiied h) it good nnd nuffl.
i lent hotid of tin thoumind dollarn.
A iirliriul clink for two huiutred
und rift) d dlurn munt nlwi he filed
with mill hid for llu purpon. nf
Mumlng Hip good fiilth of the hl.t.li r
Mn) or Horde) n portul that he
hud ilnllid Hi. light plant and iwl.l
that the mokp ntaikn lure III mull n
.iiiullll.iit Hint tu w onen would hale
to In ntippllid Up lirgul the eounill
to tnkp nctlon lu thn matter point
Ing nut thai lindir the pronclit con.
trait with I'tah Tower mid Mght
tompmi), fhoiihl Hi, purthnn. und
en i Hon of new nmokp Mmkn hi il.
tided upon, prior to tin , xplnillon of
thin i out rm I, Hip puriluinc pi 111. ulntin
would lip home I.) Hip ill) nnd Hip
pottir lompan) would hp rcnptiunllilp
for llu xpennen of InMitllntlnti The
nmtt. r wan nfirr. .1 to the .lutrlc
tominltlie with power to nil It wan
ulno il.ihl.il thai Innniuiiih nn tin re
nrp ith.iut nei nl). flip lounumern or
eurrritt who are pa) lug u flat rale thu
ItiMiillatlnii or tnitirn wnn iincceniir)
Mini) uf thoc who nrp un n flat mti
It wan polnl.nr Out, are nOmiimlng
mom current than the) pn) for nnd
In fulrnrnn to thonu who nro pn)lng
r.ir pier) kllowut the) imp n.ient)
Hln melern wire ordired, which will
he luMiilliil nn qtlli kl un ponalhle
Hnih ctintomer wilt he ohllgul to dp
poult ten dollarn with tho ell) wh, u
Hip m, tern lire put lu A met, r Itnter
wnn nlnn ordered and ever) miter lu
Hip tit) will U made to meanure the
mm ul nriiirntil)
The llhrnry hoard thiougli Un rep
rencntntlun, Mrn. OIIip Mlllhuru, Mrn.
T II. MiicMlllnti and t'nrl It Mnrcu
mn, nnkrd for n donation nf flip hun
dred dollarn for Hip purpnni of nup
pi) Ing thn llhrnry with n linoleum
und iittnr netennar) fiirnlnhlngn. At
thn Invitation ot thn llhrnr) hoard Hip
coumll rpcenne.1 nnd lUltcil the ll
hrnr) mid nn Hi. Ir return lo Hip lotin
til chnmher int. d Hip amount, which
will he turned our lo Hip llhrnr)
hoard In July.
Tire Chhf Morgan King wmil.d to
know Junt (xirilly whut thn right of
firemen wire whin fighting fin. He
complained nhout tho Interfere me uf
lrrrnMiiinlhle nnd Intnxlinted p. monx
nt fire und hu wnn promlMil adequate
pollic prntitlloit In the future I'rom
thin elittn until thn new flrn nppnratun
nrrlien tho volunteer deparlmiiil nhalt
eonnlal of file men nnd the chief, the
latter to retell p flu. dollarn and thn
forimr IS SO eueh for tier) run Ituy
make,
Coiiiicllmnn Iinfhiiurow Inform. . I
Hip i mini II that or Into mnii) com
phtlntn had he, n in td to lilm nhout
IIip ntock running ut largp nnd dam
aging rem en und lawnn und Hip clt)
glup, which wnn n hilper . nglnn ut
tallied to the train at llilpir, paiwul
our thn nw Hi Ii al Colton, In no for
un It In ponnlhlp to uncertain, hut the
nu nnd engine nwiriul to the nl.llng
mid . olll.lt tl with llnglne No I IBS, it
work train engine Hid up on thi pinn
ing track for thn night. The necond
. nglnn or the pannengi r train, en
gine 773, engine 1135 mid four of tho
file mm lu the piiHKtngir train wire
diriilltd and overturned, hlocklng
holh nml n trill kn nnd Hip went hound
panning nlillng The tank of engine
771, tho hud engine of thn pawnngor
train, aUo wan derailed, hut did not
turn over,
Watuhmun Mulouey, who wan cur
ing fur Hip tnglnen tied up ut Colton,
hoard the critxli and Immediate!) no
tlfl. d the dnpatihir In Halt Utko
Clt) hy telephont. The Hull Utke
wrecking outfit, which had hunt linn
tiling rotk in the Trice Can on Hu
day hoforo, wan tied up nt Colton fur
tho night und was Immidlatil) put
Into Ken lie The lighter wrecking
outfit wun urdi red from Helper, and
Train No IS wnn Heel up ut ThUtlo
ami Itn engine und crew prunned Into
mi I lee nn u relief train tn tin) it dot-
tor lo tho ntene of tint accident and
the th nil and Injured nwa) Doctors
a Iko vvt re tuken to tho scene from
Helper mid Castle Oute b the Helper
wreikfiig"outflt "-
iJjH
miirnhal wnn luMriiitiil l enforee the iTkS
iinllminii B
Clt) Thynlilau t V. Chitmherlnlii !, H
wnn ituthiirltid to utleiid the confer I 'l
i nrp of hnilth offleern whleh will hn J M
held nt Halt IJike Clt) June I Silt nnd j jH
li.lli Ills nittinl pxpennen will hn l.l
tmhl I.) the ill). VtM
II J Turin r on helutlf or Jon On- '' H
tillo nppuiri d Ii fore the niutii II nnd
offi rid to mil Hip .11) suit ul-flve 'iLjH
ful or u toriier lot at J mid Ninth ifH
ntrutn, whli It In tut through h) Ninth 'v'rH
street Hint hi Ing until nn it puhllu iPH
thoroughfnti Turn, r stated that On- Oifl
ulio huh nwo-efMil nnd wnn i.i)Iiik 'tll
tnxen on thin frontage The inntti r ' Vl
wun refined to tin tit) nttorite) In fH
order that Hie tountll might he In- H
foriiuil un to the rlghtn nf Hip rlt) lu I.H
Hit imtll.r H
W I Olniui n offi r to nllow the city 'JM
to use hln rmi rvolr whli h la)n lo the , j
north of Hip fair groiindn, wnn llntene.l v iJjH
to with respectful uttililloli h) Hip i
tit) eotintll nml it resolution wnn ' llH
pniul Ihmiklng him for hln offer, hut ral
tn llu nit i plume or thin offtr would H
entull it large i xpuidlttire In innklug li'H
Hit lu.. mn r) itiiiiietllonn hi tw cell 1 fil
tho ill) n n-n. riolrn ittul Olnon's, it l'fll
further loiiMilernlloii of IhU proiHinnl llffH
will no ihniht hi inki ii up ut it later liiJH
date h) Hi, mum II 9H
Trice In kolug lo han rt 1 1 luhratloii ifll
on the tllorloun I oiirth Tim mat- ! tlH
ter wan hroiight to Hn intention nf ilH
thu count II h) Hit imt)or and It wnn 'XJH
ilccldul Hint he (the ma) or) should jjH
iippolnt it rommlllii, whlvli will hale 'IH
tho pottir lo appoint thp mccssary .1 (
suh.iommlttiin mid that the eilihra- J H 'HH
Jlon should he lift In their li.tndn. hfiil
Coiim lliuitii I Jim I'mndreii reiori- ftjM
nl Hint hn had looktd Into thu mat- 'IsiH
tir or it mw dumping ground for the sfilil
tll)n gurhagii and stated that the jEfR
giuiiml sugginlid, situated Immidlati- BlCjl
I) nut or Hip fair grounds und on the IfPlHfl
tust dido or tin rirst foothills, wan njHH
will fitted for Hip purMe, Thin HH
ground was thin nfriclally lenlgunlcd ICH
an the tll)V dumping ground nnd n ' H
slgnlHiard wnn ordertd plan. I there IIH
No il. ad iinlmnln, however, will hn 5IH
Intuit tl linn "oaH
The toiiuill udjourniit ut 11)30 2msh
o'clock, after nllow Ing the untiiil Ssvl
live mmm ' W
(.,mhI Trlui Tn mil On Ciiltle, Hut f V
IjtinlM n Down u 1 1 1 1 In. il
Thn Hun Hpeclul Herilie K H
KANHAH CITY, Mo, June 5. Uoo.l W l
lo prime slum sold fill) untn higher 1 Ul
Innt week, some nnlen or nlrlitly prima '' 'IH
steers sol. nt) -file irntn higher, hut M itl
midlum und low grudm or rattle J t
wnrkul lowir und ntocki rn und feed- ' 1 a
em hint nroiind flfl) untn. Tudn) re- , Jll
ii'lptn niiiount to tin Itn Ihuusand nl
cattle, und the mnrkit In again Jfl
stronger on good tu prime sli rn, afno THiH
on hutch, r grndin of cntlln on ntock- iBI
irn and frulirn, hut mtdluin. und TliH
elienp stum continue lu work lower. Sll
A fuitiire wun nomo strlutl) prime tllfll
pulp ful Hie. rn, four cam hrlugliiK I jk3
110 HO, mid file cum 110 76. hulk of 'IHH
Hip pulp Mum 11036 to 110.76 I " HSH
Hlrlitl) prime milliin wire lueklng. tffil
tlno thi) would sell up itrnuud 111.00 1 ftl
There U u illnponltlon to push Immii- '9
turn stum forwnnl, for reedem real- J! ijl
lie that In it short lime grass initio r )fl
will he ithunduni, nml prlien on Hum it ,q
will he low tnoiigh to hud pniktrn to P nRII
NUhstltut. , heme will hurt till hut thn h ijpll
hest fed oattl. Ill tho itiuraiiHnn ill- ft (uf
vlnlon tight). file curs urrlied, print- , JML
itliiill) all from Texan, und it sale nt p ? JUiH
ten dollars made it new high record VwHil
on quarantine tnlth Hulk or the MwflliH
iiaranlinii red steirs tit re only me- miKlfH
ilium ituillt), nnd sold weak tu tut jUsll
cents lower, nt 17 60 to D 75 Homo SftMliH
grunt stetm hroiight ttV6 to 17.16, llhull
Including six cars from Kotith Texan InvHHiH
nt the latter price, KSO poundn aver- afl
agi Htnikern and fuilern sold strong- tj. Wl
ir todn), most nahs of good steers at ifiillfifl
17 76 to 18 00, some cheap ntoektm KljHiH
around 17 00 JftfV 'H
Hprlng lumhn lire off flft) tents tn- jjPflK 1
da), due to a flitltloun advunce last MM 1
vviuk mroe than to rial weukntws lu KiW H
thn market, lamhn selling hire twen- Svnwl 1
t).flvi tents nhovo Chleugo lust SilP sH
Thursdu) Hprlug lumhn brought VaL Hi
110 76 to 111,60 toda), liuluillng me- Wtt HB
dlum Arlxunas nt 110 IS to 111. 00, WRIbbbI
Arizona ellpp. .1 )earllngn, eight) -four 'J flftaaa
poundn, at IS 76, Natlvo and Arizona i IJH
ewes are worth 17 36 to 17.76 for j(( jltflCI
nlaughter, hnedlng ewts 16 00 tn f" lljH
17 00 Ti xan muttons nro lniklug, II' 'SflsB
worth 17 36 to 7 76, uhout thrcti IS' AH
tluiusaml goata hue toda), fat gouts K KMH
steitd), u rou ml 15 3.6, hruilurs ten It K
tents lover, 16 00 for good Aiigoran, II HfiB
The man who linn a few things he il ibbbbbS
thinks It would pay to push can get I ifl
an Idea nf the value nf advertising KvbbbbbI
hy pushing them properl) tSbBBBBBBl
