Ldi fera From Ck'cc;, An Thst Oil Lbs Rt&Ukets enJPmpmim Will VnSHammsi Stem To & & tyW
THE DEMM6 GBAPHIC
Car '-i Water
tXli Pure
a venun't Test
Doming Air ,
100 perot. Pure y
Breathing Test
A LIVE PAPER IN A LIVE TOWN
VOLIS3 HV, NUK223 ZLI
DEMING, LUNA COUNTY, NEW MF;
JAY, JUNE 0, 1016.
FIVE CENTS THi.
M 9
ii.ii.qou:sS
K.CFnA!;iTOn
CUn Umwwinbk ArsuniMU Why
Ctr HeaKkMng Climate
CionM Have Preference
KZSICAL SCIENCE AGREES TOO
RipntMtttive Will Urge
Cam Safari Supreme Lodge And
Hat Hopes of Winning Out
To ahare and have part in
tha aorrowa of our friends,,
broadens Oar Vision, tempers
Our heart and approaches
those ideals embodied in the
Ufa of the greatest Teacher
haa ever known.
Tha proposition of huililinir n sann
torinm for the benefit of those of our
Order, who are victim of the "white
plague" haa been under consideration
for a lent; time. It has been discus
aed from every possible angle, bo
that it wonld seem Hint nothing re
mained to be said; yet, the question
i of anch vital importance thnt T nm
prompted to (tire expression to my
approval of the proposition, thorn; h
I may add nothing to what hns al
ready been uttered.
As I view it, the controlling ques
tion involved are those of need mid
dntv. That there is need of ouc h nn
inatitntion, all will admit. Our mem
bership of some three-qunrter of n
million, In distributed nil over the
United States and the British pos
essions on the north: and that we
flhonld escape the ravages of this
dread disease is not to be expected.
Our members suffer in common wit
tha people of their locality. While
exact statistics are lacking, I am con
servative when I any that our annual
death roll from this cause alone docs
not fall below 6000. Think of thnt n
Frad Wymu Lai to Batt
The mortal remains of the lata
Fred Wyman, whose tragic death
en ma at the threshold of a promising
lite, were tenderly laid to rest Wen
ncsday morning, amid a profusion of
flowers, loving tributes to a beautiful
lite, gone out.
The Presbyteiian church where he
hud worshipped since childhood, waa
tho scene of the laat loving tribute of
friend. The beautiful casket was
buried amid a profusion of flowers
and the entire west end of the church
wus h bower of floral beauty, the
china of 1912 contributing a set piece
"D. II. B. 1912." A broken column
of choice flowers stood at the base of
the class design.
The English language cannot frame
a finer sermon than was preached up
on this occasion by Rev. Hugh l
Mitchclmoro. The musio waa also
especially appropriate, Mrs. Dean,
.Miss Donbam, Mr. Foulka and Mr.
Brown singing "How Firm a Found
ation," and Mrs. Dean rendering as
a solo "Sometime We'll Understand'
Miss Wnmel presided at tha piano.
According to Will Wyman, who
cnrae to Terre Haute, from Boston to
bring the remains of his brother to
bin homo, Fred went swimming with
wo or three companions, and when
Nome distance from shore, signalled
n friend for help. The friend canu
ml Fred placed his hand on his
boulder and swan to within ten feet
of shore, when he suddenly went
own, his heart failing to perform
tx function. He was dead before h
iink, ii h there was no water in his
lungs.
Fred was a great favorite in school
nd the president of his class frn
lernily insisting on nccomnnnvins' his
mums ns fur ns St. Louis. A let
0
'1fflTi:DvniFS)fifliir-,Kp,,-Fis
All CTMTnff'niwra mvmxiixmvt
nuL nun uiiuuui ni J ini LAII.U..L IIUJ.II
Primaries, of Demeeratle
nominate Full Ticket far Elec
tion In Next November
JUDGE C. C FIELDER LEADS
to Say "I Deal Care."
EVERYTHING PASSED QUIETLY
J. W. Phillips, Frank L. Nordhaus, ! Sheriff Simpson Had Eeverytlng In
Perfect Readiness and there waa
Not One Slip In tha Cog
And Andy Lewis, Nominated for
County Commissioners
Calvin Andrew KcSarney
Vho paaaed away at his farm t
noAwest of the city laat weak,
wl buried from the Mahoney ebj
his farm home
aitv lul waalr. and
rf buried from the Mahoney chapel.
Ifaday afternoon, waa bora in Car
Make r tw- "encar, loao. in Aug
w r s UHi 1867. he was married to M An
nue 1MB ureal ejwisj, LXDtwf nsoei louyer. to this union were
It took the Dcniintr election hoard
until 4 o'clock in the mi. mine to count
the (108 IihIIiiIh hikI nt I lie Demo-
cratic primary, Tuesday. The day
wns right lively, but everything was
very orderly nnil peaceable. Jndgi
C. Rogers and J. D. Dnvle and
Albert Field, were judges, nml E. C.
Wells nnd John S. Wnddill, clerks.
I
l-i'iineisen Alverei and Juan San
clicx paid with their Uvea early this
morning for their part in the raid
mi Columbus, March 0, by Villistaa,
in me local jail yard. They
I lw first to die f seven found guilty
en murder in the district court here,
if is expected thnt the others will be
iiinir Inter, a stay of execution hav-
ii the absence of Senator I'pton, Carl i inir been granted by Governor Me
let' from the president of the college
to Jutiies A. Shepnrd, a former stud
ent says : "I wish you would send me
more boys liko Wyman."
Fred wns born in Deming, Septem
her 24, 1894.
Continued nn Pnge .1
Advertising Makes Men Famous
Winona, Minn., May 31, 101(1.
Mr. F. C. Peterson,
Deming, New Mex.
Dear air:
We are in receipt of three eopio.-.
of the DEMINO GRAPHIC, dated the
26th, giving Rob Kelly a boost and ai
so your good selves as well nn the
Winona Wagon, nnd hope, thnt nil
around it will be i f material ansist-! usual amount
ance to you. We appreciate your
sending us the papers.
F. R. TWITTV IS GOOD MAN
TO TALK WITH ABOUT VAI LEY
Last Year he Raised Ten Tons of
Tomatoes to the Acre, Worth Fif
teen Dollars per Ton, Cost Five
Dollars per Acre on the Average,
E. R. Twitty is farming on his own
fn mi near Hondnle, that's why ha is
making things como out right at the
end of tho year. Last year he rais
ed fifty tons of tomatoes on five acres
of land and this year be hopes to
bent thnt, increasing the acreage.
Ho will also cultivate ten acres of
beans, ten acres of field corn and the
of cantaloupes and
garden truck. Twitty says 075 per
acre on watermelons is dead easy.
It is not a bad idea for Bob to get .i His water costs on nn average of S
his name in the paper occasionally, !ier acre.
and we are suggesting to him that he j Tulk it over with Twitty.
do it right along. We used to hnvej
a man in North Dakota who scarce-' Carter-Clayton
ly ever went into a town but what he Rev. Theodore Piatt joined in mac
Pctigh wns generalissimo.
The Williams girls' bnml, all wear
ing pretty hut hands fur .Inhii .1. Hv-
It, iiiuile lively inu-.ii' I 1 It here nn. I
I Hondnle.
The t nt n I muulicr of villi. cast in
he county mounted up to 1013, 608
t which were rust in Deming, nn.l
ivided among eiimlidiitei in follow.
Fur representative, T. (i. t'pton.
"it: Sberitr, Simpson. :i.l.'i: llviill.
'JtlJ: treasurer, llepp, .114: ltcrr
Hii : iriibhnrd. (ill: Wnlkin. lift:
Clerk, Hughe. .IS.'): Assessor, Stump,
40:i: Kbihive. till: Herren. 08; siipl.
nt' schools, Mrs. Smith, '.Ml : Underer,
'-MiJ: Wright. HO: Xiekell. f.:i: Sin
veyor. Curl fill'i: prohnle judge, C. C.
Fii'lder, ."i!H: commissioner fir! dis
I ret. Ilyiilt. ,.,70: Lew;., .Mill; Bishop.
": i nd district, N'orilhinis, 00:
When, 149: Inpnld. 87: llnnd, 50;
third district, Phillips. ,'I'J4: Smith
180: Bell, 85.
Donnld.
Alviirex stepped on the gallows at
i':.M i. clock: at 8:30 the trap was
-prima unit it I ll:4.i lie whs pronoune
ii dnid. Snni-hcK Innunteil the gnl
nt 7:10 o'clock ; nt 7:13 the trap
wns -pruiig and at :30 his dead
bully hiw cut down, carried Into the
mil yard and covered with a quilt
H'.ide the body of his comrade. Both
ivi'ie very indifferent to thoir fates.
TiirlVuhirly wns it true of Alvarei,
uhn iiu-wered Cnpt. A. W. Brock,
"in no iinero." u do not care to)
when nxked if he would like to make
a Ii ii ji 1 statement. His attitude has
I nun I be llrst been one of absolute
indifference to his fate. The Rev.
Father Joseph Camel, and the Rev.
All'iin-o Rmiiero, his spiritual ndvis-r-
were with him from 4:30 o'clock
tbi morning until the hlnck cap and
niinsp were adjusted. Even up to the
omcnt the death march started hu
- ........ .... M IIIBIVII ftBBtTB II U
The total vote in the county fii miking a rignret anal joking 84
...... I. . .... .1. .A I I. I .
.in n i-iiiKiiuiiiu its oiioiiiciuiiy re- 'niii.i. n was going co a picnte,
porcea wns as follows: ..i.i Sr.nehes was a little more ser
T. G. I pton OflO: J. W. Hyatt 38i,i i . i' uid for the last three or four
H.I. Simpson (124 : W. J. Berry 3W. bnt;rs prior to his execution waa en
Kdgnr Hepp 480, C. I,. Hubbard 04,jgnged in semi-silent prayer. Thla
(Ico. V. Wntkms 111 : C. U. Hughes was the attitude of AJvaret at intei
000; R. II. Flnllive 1:10: .1. A. Ktlinml Mil... A few in inn lea hefnm tlnrtm..
born two aona and a daughter, th
latter passing away in early life,
The deceased waa a kind lovin.
husband and father, a good neigh
bor and friend and leaves many to re
gret his departure. His life is
legagey of good work to those who
mourn his death.
We bow to tha will of Him who
doeth all tbinga well.
Mrs. Anna McBurn
Thomas and William MeBurney
Meeting of Road Board
The Tiiinn connty rr.ad Hoard held
itx regular meeting, Monday, Kelly.
Heath nnd Kngineer Almy, lieing in
ul tendance. Kditor Parks of Coin in
bus enme up with Mr. Heath.
The steel construct ion work of the
''7ft'' draw on the Cnlnmhiis rond was
authorised. A contract was let the
Kl I'n-o Bridge & Iron Co., In con-
slruct a lri.-ft pile irestle bridge on
the river mad to Mimhres Hot
Sul lllL'-. I be iirio Iwinir llll
The regular bill nnd nnv roll was!
allowed.
r. W CEBS
Ul UWiiiiiivlt
Sawor Bonds told to CMeao Firm Sfi
Will Make Breat taring In tte
Mannar of Making Payment
REW IIDEWALKt ARE 0XSEXED
Protection at Bold Avenue Railroad
Crossing WIN bo Given Consld
ration at Meeting Juno It '
Bestonlans Not Needed
J. H. ('manner., , Lieutenant of
ills Cruees. Co. A.. V. M. V. O.. was
in the city Tuesday, en route to Ty
rone for the piirpooe of obtaining re
mit-. Lieut. Cuminier. rcmrts that
'ol. W. A. Fleming Jones recently
riM-ived a telegram from Boston of
fering to furni-h .'10(1 men for the
National Guard, same to imv their
wn exienses and if rejected.
lenr ihe eXielse of hn home trip,
J4: (Joe is some sprinlerl J.
Iloderer 'J78: Frank Xiekell 150:
Mrs. Alice Smith 1)87: John H. Wright
180: L. M. Carl 050; C. C. Fielder
1007 j II. H. BiRhop 118; John J. Hv-
ntt 378; Andy Iwis 401 ; John IIuiiu
for I be gallows, Alvnrer. called for a
igarel. Captain A. W. Brock read
the death sentence in Spanish, to
which no comment was made.
Alva rex turned his head aecomo-
ilatingly to have tho rope adjusted.
01 ; Otto Leupold 04: Frank Nordhaus Sheriff W. C. Simpson and his assist-
4'JU; Alfred Rben 388: E. P. Bell ants performed the work. Dr. R. C.
124 ; J. W. Phillips 484; S, J. Smith ! Hoffman and Dr. P. M. Steed pro-
38((. nouiicing upon each bod v.
Columbus cast 104 votes, Hondale, j Deming was absolutely nuiet dur-
83; Myndu, 04; Mimhres, 35: N'lilt,1 ing, before nnd nfter the execution
(I: HermunoH, 13. j and Company I, Captain A. W. Brock
J. H. Coleman, sr., was ebnir-1 commanding, Company B. Lieutenant
man of the election hoard nt Myiidns. West commanding were here in charge
r Adjutant General Herring and
PAYS BO FIOT VISIT
Mrs. Jean Cabell O'Neill, Famous on
Two Continents as a Newspaper
Correspondent Praises Deming and
New Mexico. Will Boost for Us.j
At the regular eminiiil
Monday evening. Mavor Wii.....'
nd Aldermen Hamilton. Rh..,.t
nd Cox being present, the chief bnsi .
lies, was selling J20.000 newer bonds
o roweii. norland & Co., of Chicago,
vho-e bid was accented to hv th.
bond, mature May 1. 1940. nnd
redeem the same nt par at the rata
of iMOOtl iter annum in serial or num.
ericnl order, beginning May 1, 1817,
r inereanrr at par and accrued in-
nt nt the date of delivery. Drovin.
I that on time 0f delivery the com.
pany be allowed 200 for bonds, ex
luiii.... ... I : :j . i . , . ,
i-"'" iiii-nieniais. ny huh m-
""'K1 nt the taxpayers will M.
saved something like (15.000 at the
iniiliirity of the bonds.
Oilier bidders included If. H. Kel.
ly, of tbjM city, par, less $000 for
bond, ami expenses. J. X. Wright A
Co., Oenver, par and accrued inter
est, city to pay 7ll for bonds, etc.
International Trust Co.. Denver; par
and accrued interest, less 144 for
boink and exienses. Sutherlin of
of Kansas City nnd Coffin of Denver.
iHilcd to send properly certified
, checks.
I C. l. I'i.lt,,ii nwLu.l ,1... .... :i . .
; order n fireplug at the oil tanks, bur
j the urgent demands of other locali
j ties precludes this at this time.
Clcf Henry Rnithnl of the fire do
pannicnt. who had inspected the
business district, and found that
much paier and trash was being
burned, asked for an ordinance for
bidding such practice. City attor
ney A. A. Terake was instructed to
prepare such an ordinance.
In the general fuud accounts were
allowed amounting to S020.47, sani
tary fund, 40.00.
Bonds of clerk Tcmke, Marshal and
i the acquaintance of the editors rimony, this morning nt tha Baptist
of the paper and after a time ni i parsonage, Miss Dcra V, Carter, u
name got to be as famous as that of; .Mimhres nnd Mr. Gessie Bernon
the President of the United States. , Clnyton.of Tularnsa, where the hap-
Instead of calling bim by his name, py couple will reside,
however, they called htm "bone dry"
which suited his case particularly Miss Glen Phillips has returned
well because he waa a rabid prohibi-; from lone, Washington, where she
tionist, to say nothing of the wagon . has been teaching in the high school,
he represented being made of the j The cold weather of the north pre.
moat thoroughly seasoned material, j vents her desire to return, although
We an glad to have that orde. she was re-elected,
you gave Bob, and will give it our
best attention and congratulate you ' Major M. L. Stern, commanding the
upon getting it in before the raise hattnllion of troops sent to Deming,
which is now in effect. says : "The personnel of the N. M. N.
Tours very truly, , 0. is very fine and the boys are de-
WINONA WAGON CO. porting themselves like true soldiers.
H. M. Kinney The Deming boys are a fine lot of
General Mnnnfre. i follows. The guard as a whole are
. : high grade men and I am sorry we
Gorman submarines are now so
lamb-like (hey could he called ewe
boats.
.vinjor Mem. i nptnm Hniley was
in charge of the truck train, consist
ing of twelve regular armv trucks.
During Inst night sentries were posted
There will be a meeting of thcof-1 about the jail and provost patrols
ttccrs of the volunteer cavalry nt El went on duty with loaded guns and
Pnso on June 15. I fixed bayonets. Beside these there
j were veteran peace officers from
Brevity is the soul of wit and per-; all along the border.
haps that is what makes the women's
Misses Kathleen Snllivnn, Bertha
- Graham and Birdie' Phillips are np
in the Black Range camping.
w
J. A. Reynolds, president of the
Lydia Patterson Institute, witt occu
py tha Methodist pulpit, Sunday.
haven't more just like them.1
Mr. and Mrs. Will Harris, Frank
and Arnold Harris, Mr. and Mrs. Will
Kurnside, and Ed. Burnside of Silver
Barber Boyd, of the Tricknmnli
can shop, needed or thought he
did and broke in the shop nnd took
it. City Marshal Tabor, Deputy
Sheriff Kealy, and Night Police Talmr
worked up the case, got the man,
took him licfore Judge It oners, who
. .... ..
nnn special stones to the nig ninen-i
nines. (
She was loud in her praises for
this city ns the "gem of the plains.",
nnd said n lot of nice things about j
the high character of nnr citizen
man of Col-.mibii-. William Colemni!
of Myndu-. C. M. Dool llle ..f Dwycr. !
nail in addition In this list there wen I
present, SbeiilT II. 3. McGrnth of
Grnnt county. Sheriff Felipe T.ncero of
Dono Ana county. W. C. Kendnll.
sheriff of Sierra county. Buck Chod-i
"" I f IT Tl 1 . rr-.i
allow onlv1 " i nomas, nnn r. -v nil!, :
inc inner iwo oeing rnmn re otneers. i
Sheriff J. II. Williams of Columbus, j
Mis.. Representative S. J. Smith,1
Fred Sherman. Julius Rosch. Clyde i
Karl Kly. General Herring, Captain !
rnrley, .1. . Hnnnignn, Major Stern
Wednesday Mrs j,,,,,, CnM, 0.X(,m f and unite number of officers nnd
Xcw York Telegraph were here to I " "nrs an con.a not
get feature stories. Immmediately n( ". -ntiima as the
, iiiw ri'iiuircs iweiuy wiincsses.
"I am enthused with the fine hie inspector Tabor, and night
pirit of the Southwest." said the lli e Tabor. i00, were au'u-sd.
noted war correspondent. Mrs. Jean Pel ii ion for sidewalk on north side
Cnbell O'Neill, to the Graphic la,"1, "inlmk, Silver avenue to Tin
evening. avenue wns receiver and walk was
This was the opinion of one of ordered built.
the world-renowned women writers. ( ''' Attorney Temke submitted a
who is making Columbus more famous 'lr ft "f ordinance requiring flng-
by her presence, and who is sending"""" railrond crossing on Gold
nice stories every dsv to her NW avenue. This will he given eonsid
York paper. The Daily Telegraph, ''ration nt the adjourned meeting on
-kirts so blamed fiiiiuv.
Col. P. R. Smith, noted mine op
erator, is putting one over now, that
will make the 1'. S. take note.
Whnt has become of the old-fash
ioned-mnn who used to pride Himself Mc!.murhlin of the Associated Press,
on the way he could carry his licker nnd Mipr of ,h( rni,P(l
. , " , Don I.usk of Silver City nnd 0. E.
( Incf Henry Rnilhcl and his fire IVrks of Colnmb.i. nn,l h r Prl
lighters extinguished a lire in Ihe (d , ,.. .orn i-,.:.,,. n, r,.i,inii,llu
.1 - : i ii. i i . .
nnioo rnonioig House,
night.
Xieholns McDonald representing
the Selig-Trihnne, L. J. Burmct of
the Mutual Weekly, J. R. Johnson of
Ihe Pathe News and Tracy Mathews
of the Hearst News Sen-ice. were
here with their movie cameras, bnt
Sheriff Simpson would
incngre pictures to lie made. Phil
June l. Another ordinance will be
prepared requiring gntes at said cros.
-ing.
Mayor Nordhaus reported the pur
hiisiiig of a municipal team, harnes.
and wagon, for 000, payable nt 100
ier month, which purchase was ap
proved. The mayor reported that in
14 days, the team earned 81.50, at
the rale which the city wns paying
for that kind of service, and that the
eost of keeping the team, including
3." for driver l.neero, would amount
to about .V per month, which looks
like good business.
COL. McGRORTY RAISES DEBT
FROM ST. LUKES' RECTORY
utter the execution the bodies wen
taken to the Muhonev undertakinc! T,li"' ,h'' flrs vengeance of the
parlors and will be buried in the Dem-: '"w on pw M'rico border band
ing cemetery. The list of invitations nn,i although every step and pos.
sent nut by Sheriff Rh.pson and np- "i,',' "''WP1 '" made to sIb.v the
pmveil by Judge Colin Nehlett in. ''xecntions they were without avail,
elude ih Hac fnihr rn.i n- The home boys were very glad to
City; John L. Burnside, son and """1"' him over o the grand jury. Kniber Romero, Dr. P. M. Steed DrJ "" ofTriunity to greet their
daughter, of Las Vegas; Mr. and Mre. Judge Nehlett held court this morn- , tt f Jorfmnn! Dr. O. II. Yonngj nmnv frio"ds here nnd we are all
Warren Smith of Tyrone, were theiR "d Boyd is willing to go to the Charles tTnski'n R.nnn Pi-,.-' i equally pleased to see them.
rolotives who attended the funeral of j "pen" on informal ion Hied by District onrv RBjthel, 1L H. Jacobs, Allen 1 Shenff Simpson r:;t one over on tnt
Charles C Dawedoff, president of the late Fred Wymau, Wednesday. Attorney Waddill. Quick justice. Crotchett, Tom Farmer, W. A. Casler, ' curious crowd thnt gathered Thurs
the Army Supply Co., of El Pnao, ! I B. Y. McKcves, Jack Sundquist, Mnv- i day morning at the union station by
Witt a branch offliee at Colnmbna. Assistant district attorney Vaught : The prisoners slept soundly nnd ..r M. A. Nordhaus, R. n. Barrett, i king the prisoner from the Santa
motored to Deming Monday morning must have a terribly "prosecuting" ate a hearty hrenkfost. Andy Lewis, G. Blevina, J. W. Fairall, Ke trnin a mile or so out of the city
on legal business, registering at the(eyo, aa most offenders want to plead - o. P. Watkins, John Yeargin, Bod ""d conveying them to the local jail
Park. Mr. Dawedoff ia also presi j guilty when he puta those trained,1 A. J. Tidmore nnd family will go Hughes, W. A. MeCreary, F. R King, by antomobile. The NaHonnl Guard
dent of tha Geneva Jewelry Company j legal optics of his on them. He pull-: to Washington soon. R. A. Lvnd. W. E. Holt, all of Dem-1 i'l return to Columbus, their pre-
of FJ Paao and is a young man pro- j ed off two of these stunts at Tyrone ig, o. E. Parks. Phil MeUughlin, here being only precautionary
minenUy popular in both business and , and nachita this week, both cattle Deputy Kealy resigned this morn- 10 Williams. M. James. J. L. Green, as no trouble of any kind was antioi.
I stealing eases, ing. I wood, Charles Heath, Lieut Castle- i rated or encountered.
rrimlea
During the Sunday evening service
held at St. Lukes' Episcopal church,
ihe Rt. Rev. Howden announced to
Ihe congregation that the entire in
dcbledness due on the rectory of
St. Luke's Parish rectory had been
cancelled through the generosity ot
the Warden. Col. J. P. McGrorty.
It is such deeds aa this that possi
bly inspired the most representative
poet of the nineteenth century to im
mortaline the fact that "kind hearts
are more than coronets. A special
sermon will be held later to celebrate
the cancellation of the indebtedness.
Raib-eaf Royalty In Doming
Iteming waa honored Tuesday, by
Ihe presence of President Wm,
Sproule, Assistant General Manager
II. V. Piatt, Division Superintendent
F. H. Williams, and Engineer J. D.
Mathews, who came on a tour of in
spection. Of course they put DenJ;?
on tho O. K. liat
