ILesdnaton
i nee
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1916.
NUMBER 2.5.
A A n I vA:
V
MEETING OF THE itate. He was a member of the
OLD MEN'S CLUB Methodist Church from his boy-
hood and was liberal in his con-Semi-Annual
Meeting Held At tributions to the church and the
Concordia. j worthy poor. He died in peace,
ThP DM Mpn' n.,h nf TjifW-.and we have god hope that he
ette County was organized Au
gust 4, 1868, and year after
year has been entertained by the
citizens of the several towns,
but none has surpassed the en
tertainment and generosity ac
is forever at rest.
Thomas M. Cobb
James C. Kelly
Committee
CANDIDATES FOR 1 SCHOOL HOARD I City Council Proceedings. j 17th and Layayette streets. Car-
COUNTY OFFICES j ELECTS TEACHERS The City Council met in regu-'ried.
. j jlar session Monday night with! On motion of Councilman
A List of Those Who Would Be
Chosen at the Primary
August 1.
RepresentativeHenry W.
McNeel, John Perry.
Judge Western District D. G.
Wade.
Judge Eastern District Ju-
No Changes Except Mr. Killion 1 Mayor Minor in the chair. jBuellens the council adjourned
Who Has Resigned. j The miuutes of the last regu-jto meet in an adjourned session
The School Board met Wednes-j lar session were read, receeived'on Tuesday, June 13, 1916.
day night to choose the corps of j and ordered filed.
teachers for the ensuing year.
All of the old teachers were re-
Judge John A. Rich.
The formal announcement of
Jabez E. Shotwell, Jr.
was born in Mason County, Ky., lius Vogt, Jr.
corded by the citizenship of Con- Dec. 5, 1830, coming to Missouri I Prosecuting Attorney
cordia on Saturday, June 3, 1916. , !833, and died at Odessa, Mo.,; Ristine, Clarence Vivion.
-C. L.
Coroner Dr. B. T. Payne.
Treasurer Ike II. Noyes.
Assessor Andy W. Wilcox
Surveyor Chas. II. Swift.
The invitation to meet there Ju'y 10, 191o, aged 80 years, 7j
came from the Concordia Com- months and five days.
mercial Club, and nothing had i He was the son of Jabez E.
been overlooked in the matter of ; Shotwell, Sr., who was a charter j
extending the dad hand to the member and the first secretary!
old patriarchs. f this club. He was admitted C. Chiles.
ti, ; ,.,. : .tu 'to membership at the meeting! Sheriff Emmett Burgess,
onerYho 1903.Manoah Edwards, Frank M. j Miss Florence Kidd, Mathemat
opeia nouseanu was opened vitn '-m.w pv t e: ' Mi India RiYW.knn Tin.
Ill iOOO UK WHS Iliairieu 10 AlliSS siauiy, uuucu u oimn, living p-'i
Bettie Hall, eight children being! Withers. jmestic Science; Miss Lessie Dil
born to them. I Constable Clay Township iiingnam, Art
t He was a gentleman of the old- John S. Slack.
school honorable, high-minded! Constable Dover Township
and highest integrity and a de- W. M. Butler, S. C. Hodges,
vout Christian in its fullest 'John V. Webb. i grade; .Miss brace Jameson,
sense. He was a charter mem-! Constable Lexington Township j Sixth grade ; Miss Frances Ying
ber of the Greenton Bantist ! David 0. Heathman, Abe R. j ling- Fourth grade; Miss Flor-
The report of the police judge j
and city treasurer for May were
! elected evrent the science teach-'read, received and ordered filed.
!er, Mr. C. II. Killion, who hasl A petition for a Local Option iJu(1Se John A- Rich for the
Iheen pW-tPfl Rimprintendent of 'election was read bv the clerk. 'Democratic nomination to the
I w" " I " r t t c i 1 -1 1
the Hughesville Consolidated j Councilman Perry moved that ioince 01 Jme 01 ine "ninai
District at Hughesville, Mo. ,the petition be referred to the;Court of the F"eenth Judicial
The following were chosen. 'council, including the Mayor and Circuit appears in another col
li. M. Little, Superintendent; City Attorney for investigation, ,umn of this iasue
A. W. Clemens, Principal; Miss 'and to be brought up before the' Juc,e Rlch needs n0 mtroduc
Nellie M. Mack, Normal Depart- council in an adjourned session ;tion to the readers of the Intelli-
' 1 i TT . 1 1
Public Administrator-Henry ment; -Science; Miss Mildred on Tuesday, June 13, 1916. :cer. lie nas served .ne peo-
lUnrmino- T.ntin nnrl Herman; The renort of the 0 a ms com- l"e ui J'iui uhuii iiuiy
prayer by Rev. Henry D. Ken
nedy, in the absence of Presi
dent Cobb.
Ten members were present, as
follows: Robert Duncan, J. H.
Holman, Henry D. Kennedy,
John Kranz, J. T. W. McKean,
Jacob Mercer, George W. Payne,
B. C. Shelton, J. J. Willetts and
j. j Miss Katherine Tenick, English jjmittee was read, received and,eihteen yrs, and has given
ordered filed. universal satisiaction. mere is
Councilman Thompson of light !no Question of his ability, nor of
committee presented a bill of the "is integrity, nor of a continued
Missouri Gas and Electric Ser-: lawfulness in the discharge of
vice Co., for son-ice during the 'his dutips if elected for another
month of May, amount $310.23. , term. If nominated he will be
The same was allowed. ; elected and the same intelligent
Councilman Buellens moved and conscientious service may
that a tile be laid to drain Wash- ;be expected.
ington avenue between 17 and
Central School.
Miss Genevieve Russell, Prin
cipal ; Miss Mary Green, Seventh
church, where he held his mem- Rush.
i1 T ITT
Minutes of the September bershiP tiU the of his death'
meeting were read and approved. ! There-was no better or truer
Memorials on the death of , man, his life being pure and use-
iui. inspired by correct prin
ciples of religion and general
: ence Cullom, Third grade.
Taylor School.
Miss Lelia Marsh, Principal;
William T. Bell and Jabez E,
Shotwell. Jr.. were read, annrov.
ed and ordered spread on the !toPics' conscientious in every ac
minutes. ilon' he llved the llfe cf an up"
; right, devout Christian.
His death removes from our
Constable Middleton Township
-Thomas Fell.
Constable Sni-a-bar Township ! Miss Columbia Haerle,
-Wm. Keith. grade.
18 streets
Carried.
as soon as possible.
Williams-Worthiogton.
Miss Mary Katherine Wrorthing-
William Thomas Bell.
Was born in Simpson County,
Ken., Aug., 27, 1831. He was
midst one of our most worthy
nnrl roanoptofl rniVtmc a rirmeor
the son of Samuel and Margaret I , , ! jl-'
., , t , and one who ever esteemed his
Bell. His father came to Jack
so County, Mo., in 1836, and set
tled in Blue bottom near where
the town of Athenton is located.
Mr. Bell grew to manhood in this
nighborhood, working on the
farm during the summer months
and attending the neighborhood
school during the winter. . In
1850 he went to California, cross
ing the plains and mountains
him-
fellowmen as better than
self.
I May we emulate his character .Thomas.
and life and be ready for the; Constable Lexington
Constable Washington Town
ship D. E. Herr.
, Republican.
Representative John S. Klin
kenburg. Judge Western District Geo.
C. Schawe.
Second , that the city pay for the laundry
of fire department. Carried.
Arnold School. Councilman (Thompson moved
Miss Kate Drysdale, Principal; that bill of $8.60 for horse hire
Miss Matt Kinkead, Seventh ,for G. W. Simmons be allowed.
! grade; Miss Margaret Smith, Carried. j
j Sixth grade ; Miss Lena Meierer, Councilman j Thompson moved
Fifth grade; Miss Marie Hale, that a light bet placed at the cor-
i Fourth grade; Miss Elizabeth 'ner of 25th and
Councilman Thompson moved ;ton daUghter of John q Wor.
thington, formerly' of this city,
was married Wednesday in Fay
etteville, Arkansas, to Mr. D. C.
Williams of Augusta, Kansas.
The wedding took place at the
home of the bride's sister, Mrs.
M. T. Buford.
They will make their home in
Public Administrator E. C. Gwinner, Fourth grade; Miss
street. Carried.
Councilman IMalott moved that
the Telephone Company be noti-
Town-
Master's summons.
Respectfuly Submitted.'
Jos. H. Christy
Johh C. Cobb
Committee.
One new member, Henry W
with ox teams. After a few mieman, was admitted, nis mo
years, working in the gold mines, gphy being as follows:
he came back to Missouri, and! llenry W. inieman was born
became a farmer again. Feb. 10, :
1863, he was married to Mrs. ,
Elizabeth Greer Smith at Lex-
ington, where he continued to
live, farming, coal mining, and
dealing in real estate to the end
of his long life. No children
were born of his marriage. He
died in Lexington, Mo., July 27,
1915. Mr. Bell was a successful
business man and left a large es-
Death of John Mclntyre.
John Mclntyre died Wednesday
morning at 11 o'clock at his
home two miles south of Lex-
; ti n r..i ington. His death was due to
29, 1843, coming to Lafayette old ae and Seneral tleblllty
County in 1845, where he since! Mr- Mclntyre , was born m
has lived; married in 1870 toiLanford' Ireland, eighty-eight
MissMary Rehkopjin 1861en-;yearsa- JtIe came to this
listed in the Home Guards, Col. country and ettled in Lexing
Grover's regiment. Cant. Berk- ton about fifty-nine years ago.
er's company; was captured at!Mr- Mclntyre is survived by two
thclmHlP nf T.PY,Wtnn and mn. uaugniers "u lour uu.
Duebbert. ! Helen Shacklett, Third grade;
Sheriff Jos. C. Talbott. Butler Miss Sue Kinkead, Second grade ;
Ms Elizabeth Eckle, First ned to install phones according
o-rade: Miss Grace Gaffin. First to the franchise. Carried.
grade.
Colored Schools.
George H. Green, Principal;
Cordelfii Hayden, Nannie Wal
ker, Eva Hunter, Glover
kins.
"a"""5lu"! Augusta, Kansas, where Mr.
WTilliams is engaged in business,
ship F. T. Lauchner, Sam Wal
ton. j
Constable Davis Township ;
;W. P. Kelly.
Councilman M'alott moved that
a light be placed at the corner of
For Sale.
A bull calf, thoroughbred
shorthorn, seven months old.
Jackson Bradley.
Haw-
are ' Misses Anna and
They
Kate, i
(Continued on Page 8.)
k
4-?
(
ft
12
n
ti
U
-i
illpll
And Here's The Place To Buy
Everything needed to build with.
It would be a mistake for you to buy any kind of a bill of
Lumber without first getting our prices and knowing something
about the quality of our stock.
Our prices are strictly competitive. 'When we figure a bill
we expect to figure against every other Lumber dealer in the
community. And the fact that we get by far the big majority
cf the bills we figure, shows conclusively, that we figure very
carefully and very close.
Our lumber is the very best that we can buy; it is well
made and well kept: we have a very complete stock and urge
you to get our prices before buying.
Ernest A. Green.
Ernest A. Green of St. Louis, 1
:andidate for the Democratic !
nomination for Attorney-Gen- j
eral of Missouri, was in Lexing-
ton Wednesday calling on the j
voters. Mr. Green was born and I
reared in De Sota, Mo. He
moved to Popular Bluff and be
came Prosecuting Attorney. He
was assistant Attorney-General
under Gov. Major, and was con
tinued in that office bv Attornev-
James, John and William of this General Barken Resigning from
city, and Fred of Sheridan, Wyo. jthat office Mr Green ,ocated in
He is also survived by one ,gt Loujg an( entem, upon the
brother, Peter Mclntyre of this'practice of ,aw
C1 . I Besides being a graduate from
The funeral will be held this thfi Law and ColIegiate Depart.
morning at 9 o'clock from theimpnt of the TIniversitv 0f Mis-
i Catholic church. !cmiri M roon hf.a hnA . fi.
I A f illi I J VV11 llltU M
opportunity to gain experience
Mrs. Shinn Entertains. L.hich ghoul(, fit him to discnarge
Mrs. W. J. Shinn entertained j the duties of the Attorney-Gen-
the members of the Pinochle I eral.a officei He is a good cam.
Club at her home, 618 High-;paigner and n0 (loubtf giye
land Ave. Wednesday night. The a good account of himsdf be.
evening was devoted to Pinochle. :fore the August primarV( and if
The first prize was won by Mrs. !nominated he wilI be a tower of
William Welch; second, William 'strength to the ticket at the
Welch; booby prize, E. Hoffman, jNovember eiection.
Jr.; tourth prize, Mrs. W. J
Summer Specials
A Lot of Broken Sizes in Ladies
Pumps, Strap Oxfords, Button
and Lace Oxfords.
WORTH $2.50 and $3.00
At
$1.98
I Shinn. After the contest re
freshments were served. The
A Believer in Preparedness.
Lee Granstaff, who claims
IS
n
"The Yard that Saves and Satisfies."
LAMBERT LUMRER COMPANY
JOHN J. PRICE, Manager.
j guests departed at a late hour, Texas as his home, was arrested
i expressing themselves, as ha v-' near Myrick Sunday night by De
'ing had a very enjoyable time, tective John Shinkle. Granstaff
jwas carrying a Colts special
Police Court. United States Service revolver,
Herbert Adkins, Cleo and ; six inch barrel and a belt full of
Thomas Rachel of Carrolton were cartridges. His actions were
given fifteen minutes to leave such as to arouse the suspicion
the city, being charged with of the detective who brought him
vagrancy. W. R. Woodward of j to Lexington and put him in
$6.30 for being drunk. They i jail. Monday morning in Justice
were arrested Tuesday night, j Clyde Wright's court he was
! booked for the August term of
The Lexington Merchants were .the criminal court. It is rumored
defeated in Concordia
by the score of 12 to 5.
Sunday that a reward is offered for his
; arrest.
AN IMMENSE BARGAIN IN CIIINAWARE IN THE BIG
BARGAIN BASEMENT.
fiO Piece Dinner Set, .Beautiful Decorated Ware, for
$6.95
G2 Piece Dinner Set, Beautiful Gold Decorated Ware, for
$9.85
AND WE GIVE (ABSOLUTELY
FREE) WITH EACH
SET BOUGHT, A BEAUTIFUL GLASS
WATER SET, PITCHER AND SIX
TUMBLERS ON METAL TRAY.
SEE
Our West Show Window for Display.
M
111
IN THE READY-TO-WEAR ROOM
"Wooltex" Pre-Shrunk Wash Skirts,
"Wirthmor" and "Welworth" waists,
And 'some excellent BARGAINS in
Coats and Suits.
A VISIT TO THIS DEPARTMENT
NOW WILL FAY YOU
btittO
I
