I TON
VOL XXXIII NO 9
WAUSEON, OHIO, FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
T
coun
Y
LIBRARY REPORT
Tenth Annual Librarians Report,
Wauaeon Public Library Circula
tion of Books New Patrona Read
ing and Reference New Books
Story Hour1 Public Co-operation.
To the Honorable, The Public Library
Board, Wauaeon, Ohio.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your librarian herewith presents his
second annual report aa librarian of
the Wauseon Public Library and the
tenth report of the library since its
opening in 1906.
It Is a satisfaction to report that
during 1915 the Wauseon Public Li
brary showed an increase over the
ptvious year in every branch of its
service. For there was a larger circu
lation of books and an increase in
the number of cards issued to borrow
ers, as well as an increase in the
number of people who visited the li
brary for purposes of reading and re
ference. Moreover, the number of new
books added to the library during the
year was greater than that of the
books added during 1914. .
Circulation of Books. '
During 1915 the total circulation of
books for home use was 13,352, an
increase of 1,484 volumes, or 12 V4 per
cent, over the total circulation for
114. Of the books circulated 7,409
volumes, or 55.41 per cent, were adult
fiction; 1,101 volumes, or 8.25 per cent,
were adult non-fiction; 3,258 volumes,
or 24.4 per cent, were young people's
and children's fiction; and 1,584 vol
umes, or 11.86 per cent, were young
people's and children's non-fiction. A
comparison of these figures and per
centages with those for the previous
year quickly shows a decided increase
in the circulation of adult books, both
fiction and non-fiction, at the' expense
of juvenile books. For In 1914 the
circulation of adult fiction was only
6,196 volumes, or 52 1-5 per cent, of
the total circulation; the circulation of
adult non-fiction was 796 volumes, or
6 7-10 per cent, of the total; that of
juvenile fiction was 3,365 volumes, or
28 35-100 per cent, and that of juv
enile non-fiction was 1,610 volumes, or
12 18-5 per cent. Undoubtedly the
relative increase in cireulation of
books for adults is very desirable, in
asmuch as it has usually been difficult
to increase the circulation of such
books, especially the non-fiction.. The
circulation of books of adult non-fiction
during the year by classes was
as follows: Literature, 268 volumes;
sociology, including . economics and
political science, 152 volumes; na
tural sciences, 111 volumes; history,
91 volumes; fine arts, 91 volumes;
biography, 89 volumes; general works
such as encyclopedias and magazines,
78 volumes; travel, 69 volumes; reli
gion, 56 volumes; philosophy, 53 vol
umes; useful arts, 42 volumes; and
philology, 1 volume. Every class
showed an increase over the previous
year in the number of volumes cir
culated, except the classes of travel
and philology. The decrease of 27 vol
umes in the circulation of the usually
popular books' of travel was notice
able, but there was a corresponding
increase in the circulation of most of
the other class.es, while that of the
natural sciences more than doubled
and that of the fine arts was increas
ed by two and a half times. The cir
culation of juvenile non-fiction was as
follows: Social sciences, including
mostly (airy tales, 501 volumes; travel
291 volumes; history, 238 volumes;
literature,. 186. vo(umes; natural
sciences, 121 volumes; biography, 81
volumes; fine arts, 72 volumes; use
ful arts, 56 volumes; and religion, 38
volumes. The total circulation was
more evenly distributed throughout the
year in 1915 than in previous years,
probably due to the cool weather of
the summer. . By months the total cir
culation was as follows: January, 1,
428 volumes; February, 1,230 volumes;
March, 1,394 volumes; April, l.udd
volumes; August, 626 volumes; Sep
tember, 1,003 volumes; October, 1,131
volumes; November, 1,391 volumes
and December, 1.139 volumes.
During the year the library was
open 244 days for circulation 'of books
making an average daily circulation
of nearly 55 books. For the 13,352
books in circulation borrowers' cards
were used 12,375 times, thus making
a daily average of nearly 51 persons
taking nearly 65 books. The daily
average for 1914 had been only 50
persons to taking 51 books, while that
year, also, borrowers cards were used
only 11,557 times, an increase for 1915
of 7.07 per cent.
New Borrowers).
The cards issued to new borrowers
numbered 225. As on January 1, 1915
there had been 980 borrowers' cards
in force the total number in force for
1915 was 1203. At the end of 1915,
however, 128 of these cards were can
celled because they were no longer in
force, so that at the beginning of 1916
Painting Pays
Big Profits
pAlNT up with good paint and
thereby improve the appear
ance and condition of your pro
perty. You will profit most when
you protect your property with
Billings Chapin paint. ,
We offer cans of convenient size.
Fir,Vfi aumesser
The Corner Druggists
the net total of borrowers' cards still
on file was 1077, or a net increase for
the year of 97 cards. Included in
these figures are 9 three-months' paid
tickets issued either m renewal or en
tirely jiew to out-of-town borrowers.
This was a slight decrease from the
previous year which showed 1 six
month!.' ticket, 9 three-months' tickets
and 4 two-weeks' tickets issued. Dur
ing the year the free use of the li
brary was given not, only to the box-well-Patterson
students in our high
school and a few country, pupils in
the grammar grades, but also to the
students attending the newly opened
county normal school. At the begin
ning of the school year, as at the be
ginning of the previous school year,
clank application cards were given to
Superintendent M. L. Altstetter that
the teachers might t distribute them
among their pupils. And, as had been
shown the year before, therj was a
noticeable increase in library users
not only among school children, but
also among other members of their
families.
Reading and Reference.
During 1915 the Wauseon Public
Library was visited by a total of 6.-
253 people for reading and reference
work) during the 274 days that it was
open for such purposes. This is an in
crease of 15.35 visitors, or of 32.53 per
cent, over 1914. In other words, there
was in 1915 a daily average of nearly
23 visitors for reading and reference
work, an increase of five visitors per
day over 1914. Of these 1831, or not
quite seven per day, were adult read
ers; 2,332 or moie than eight per day,
were child readers; 308, or more than
one per day, were adults doing re
ference work; and 1,782, or more than
six per day, were young people and
children doing reference work, prac
tically all for school purposes. The
daily average for school reference
work during the nine months of the
school year was more than eight pu
pils. Compared with 1914 the rec
ords for J 9 15 show a decrease of 4.23
per cent, in the number of adult read
ers; an increase of 103.84 per cent, in
the number of child readers; an in
crease of 18.91 per cent, in the num
ber of adults doing reference work;
and an increase of 27.10 per cent, in
the number of young people and chil
dren doing reference .work. Thu3 it
will be seen that while the use of our
library for reading and reference
work by adults has practically re
mained stationary, its use by young
people and children has greatly in
creased. As in former years, students
in the upper classes of the high school
are counted among the adult readers,
though not among the adults doing
reference work. While the library is
probably used as much as formerly
by the club women of Wauseon and
even those of Delta and occasionally
those of other neighboring villages,
there is still a great lack in adult men
users. But in this respect every pub
lic library in the country is making
complaint. The time is undoubtedly
coming, however, when libraries will
be used more generally by men, and,
perhaps, by that time the library will
have evolved into a much more dif
ferent and probably greatly different
institution from what it is today.
' Books Accessioned. .
The books and bound periodicals ac
cessioned during the year numbered
410. There were 281 volumes newly
purchased at a cost of $325.4?. Eight
of iiiese newly purchased volumes,
however, belonged to the library's set
of the New International encyclopedia
and have not yet been delivered. Con
sequently they are not included among
the books accessioned during the year.
There were also accessioned 37 vol
umes of newly bound periodicals and
two useful government publications,
likewise newly bound, that had never
before been accessioned. The cost of
the binding, including that of 81 re
bound books, was $60.13. The peri
odicals, however, if we add original
subscription prices, represented an ad
ditional cost to the library of $43.47.
The accessioned books that were
gifts numbered 104, including the two
government publications just mention
ed and four volumes of the newly
bound periodicals. The largest of the
gift collections was that given by
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Eager, Miss
Bertha E. Hilton, Miss Carrie E
Hedges and Master William Eager as
a memorial to their aunt, the late
Mary A. Bogart. There were 63 vol
umes in this collection that were given
during the year, but it is the express
ed intention of the donors from time
to time to add new books. The col
lection includes books of al classes
and is especially rich in handsomely
illustrated editions of favorite chil
dren's book. Each of the Bogart mem
orial books is marked by a book-plate
designed by Frank Aldrich, formerly
of Wauseon. I his book-plate displays
the Bogart coat-of-arms, a picture of
the Bogart homestead and also a
suitable motto. It is the desire of the
donors that these books be kept to
gether and not distributed among
other books of the library. ' Another
useful collection of books received by
the library was that given jointly by
(Continued from page five)
L
FourthAnnual Reunion of Teachers
and Scholars of Ottokee School In
The Sixties at Ottokee Saturday
June 2nd Poem by Mary Sweet.
1 nAltnouh the morning of June 2nd,
1916, bid fair for a rainy day, but in
stead, after a fine refreshing shower
it cleared away and the weather could
not have proved better for the fourth
Reunion of the Teachers and Scholars
of the Ottokee School from 1850 to
1860, and by 10 o'clock thiry -one of
the old scholars and twenty-nine
visitors who came from Fayette, Mor
enci, Ottawa, Toledo, Kendalville,
Delta, Wauseon, Ottokee and the coun
try homes were gathered at the old
school house, made dear by the mem
ories lingering there of their pleas
ant childhood days. There are many
more yet in the physical but from dis
tance and infirmities could not be
present but hone to hp annthar ur
All the shadows which arose at the
meeting were caused by the absence
of five of the old members, who since
the meeting of last, wjir Vinvo cmna
to the reunions on the other side, fond
memories ot them will always be
cherished by those who are left.
Heartv hanrl-shnkpa viaifino- an1
preparing of the long tables for the
picnic ainner, occupied tne time un
til the noonday hour, when all partook
of the manv crnnH t Vi i n era tn f anri
r- to -
there was sufficient to have fed as
many more.
At two p. m. the house was called
to' nrripT nnH aa tno nroellonf
Handy, was absent, Mrs. Roxie Handy
n,ice was canea to tne cnair ana prov
ed to be a lively president. A very
interesting nrrieram was parried nut
and each one was urged to express a
inougn, wnicn was responded to in
a cheerful manner Then ramp tVio
election of officers and a rnllpM-.inn
taken to defrav expenses of that
which might arise. A motion was
made and unanimously carried to ex
tend the time ten years for member
ship, which takes in the teachers and
scholars who went to school in this old
school house, frnm IRKft to 1R70 Tho
meeting was then adjourned to meet
A XI 1 t r 1 4 . r.
ao me same place June zna,
IN MEMORY OF THE OLD SCHOOL
We come to day with memories
Of the Old Schol across the line.
To meet the boys and girls of the
sixties
Aid commemorate the good old time.
We then were gay and happy
And so stalwart m our youth;
Our steps were fleet and sprightly
And eager then to learn the truth.
When school was called to order,"1
With the teacher in her place;
So good and kind we thought her,
None could surpass in dignity and
grace. (
Once it was Mrs. Moore as teacher;
now we miss her here to day,
When last our fortune here to greet
her,
She was feeble, old and gray.
How always she was obliging,
Always loyal, trus and kind;
We'll not soon forget her talks and
reading
Her voice and words come oft to mind.
Her memory, long shall linger
With the scholars here to day;
Mrs. Taylor to will meet her
Along Heaven's Great Highway.
These two will sing the songs of .vic
tory,
From beyond, clearly their voices ring
Back to us as in Springtime's glory
To their graves sweet flowers we
bring. -
I know not how many others
Have passed from this world below
O, yes, there's poor little Billy,
And some others that I do not know.
I have tried to speak of them all,
But its niemory's pen that writes
As the good times -with each other
I recall
When we enjoyed school days and
nights.
O, to shut the books on business,
O, to turn the keys on care,
To lose sight of stranger's faces,
All day long and everywhere.
To come back again to sqhool days
And the childhood, gone so long
That its memory grows dim and hazy
Like some half remembered song.
Just to live the old times over
With the boys and girls-once more,
To forget life's work andworry
And to play together as of yore.
Oh, my heart grows often homesick
And I drop my pencil oft' to dream
Of the meadows and the forest
And the old mill by the stream.
I can feel the soft winds blowing
(Continued on page ten)
SpencerEdgarVollmer Company
Quality First, Price3 are an Incident Only Afterwards. Quality and Our Prices are Not Comparative Features.
A Spirit of Cordiality and Accommodation, Pervades the Entire Store,
Making It Preeminently an Expression of Welcome To All
IMPORTANT EARLY JUNE SELLING OPPORTUNITIES
A Continuation of The Re
markable Suit Sale
Only several suits lot remaining, yet they represent
all the popular and desirable modes that have so
persistently covered this season's selling with
success.
While They Last These Suit Values Will Sell:
Lot One Lot Two Lot Three Lot Four
$15 to $16.50 $20 to $22.50 $24.50 to $25 $28.00 to $30
Now Now Now Now
$10.50
$14.00
PAPERS FILED.
Twenty-one candidates for nomin
ation for county office filed declara
tions and certificates, up to noon of
Wednesday. Only two Democrats had
filed their papers: George Geer, can
didate for Sheriff and W. I. Fraker,
candidate for county commissioner.
Republicans who had filed papers up
to time mentioned were F. H. Reighard
and i ouis C. Cosgrove for Repre
sent -ive. A. E. Bonar, Albert Edgar,
W. J. Harper, John C. Miley, Clark
Aumend and E. E. Spring for county
commissioners.
Charlie Snider, Fred Grandy and
W. S. Boone for Sheriff.
Davis B. Johnson for Clerk.
Charles T. Stahl for Prosecuting Attorney.
Allen M. Barber for Probate Judge.
Emanuel Rupp for Auditor.
G. Scott Roos for Treasurer.
T. R. Robinson and A. B. Thompson
for Recorder.
W. A. Pontious and C O. Castle for
Surveyor
Time for filing papers closed 'Thurs
day night.
First Meeting "of- June 1916 All
Members Present No Petitioners
No New Business, But Councilmen
Keep Busy Just The Same, i
All councilmen were present last
Monday evening at the first regular
meeting of the village solons for
June.
Conspicious for their absence were
the citizens with request queries or
petitions who are generally present
in larger or smaller numbers, and
it looked as though the task of the
councilmen might soon be finished for
the evening. Mayor Hoy was not
present when the time to call the
council to order arrived; George How
ard president of the council took the
chair and opened the meeting later re
signing the seat of honor to Mayor
Hoy on his arrival.
Minutes of the last regular meet
ing were read and approved; com
munications were presented by the
clerk for action by the council and the
usual routine of business disposed of.
The council took advantage of the ab
sence of new items of business to
clear the docket of matters pertain
ing to old business that needed con
sideration and the time was all filled
Streets that had been ordered re
paired, sidewalks that needed atten
tion and drains and sewers that were
in process of change or repair were
brought up and passed in review, the
street commissioner was questioned in
regard to progress of work under his
supervision and v instructions, were
given him. The commissioner report
ted difficulty in securing labor to cmo-
plete repairs on streets and drams
that are now in progress. The one
official action taken by the council
Monday evening aside from passing
the claim ordinance was the passing
of a motion authorizing the street
commissioner to purchase five hundred !
Athens paving brick to be used in re -
pairing paved .streets, ... The 8everl t
bills presented were closely scrutinir-1
ed and some of them held up for fur-
ther investigation. Claim ordinance
was finally passed and council adjourn
ed. "A CLOSE CALL."
Two young men had what may
rightly be termed a "close- call" last
Monday evening; they were riding a
motorcycle north on Fulton -street
crossing the New York Central Rail
way, they crossed immediately behind
a freight train and in so doing failed
to see an approaching west bound car
on the Toledo and Indiana railway,
the motorcycle crossed 'the track im
mediately in front of the car which
struck the rear wheel and bent it out
of shape but fortunately did not in
jure either of the riders.
KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS.'
Last Tuesday evening was the semi
annual election of officers in Wau
seon Lodge No. 156 Knights of Py
thias; the following officers were
elected for the ensuing six months:
Herman Case, C. C; Frank E. Ken
yon, V. C.;'C. E. Trory, Prelate; Ira
Karschner, M. of W.; Arthur Gorsuch,
M. at A.; Stanley G. Myers, Inner
Guard; O. U. Griffin, Outer Guard;
Messers. H. F. Dimke and Phil Gar
man will represent the Wauseon
Lodge at the convention of the Grand
Lodge m Cleveland next week.
OTTOKEE GLEANER'S MEMORIAL
Gleaners will meet at the hall Sat
urday afternoon to prepare flowers
for Memorial Day; all who can are
requested to be present.
Gleaner's Memorial Service will be
held Sunday afternoon; members are
requested to meet at the hall at one
o'clock standard time. Address by
Rev. F. E. Kenyon, at the church at
2 o'clock standard.
$18.00 $19.50
USE McCALL'S
BOOSTERS CLUB
Election of Officers and Many Im
. portant Items To Consider At the
Regular June Meeting Opportun
ity For Organization of Company,
f National Guards.
The Wauseon Booster's Club is an
organization that has in many ways
helped along the progress of our cify,
in fact no one organization in town
has done more to help the town and
to make, it better as a place of resi
dence and business than has this club
composed of residents of Wauseon
and the community surrounding it.
it has and does afford a means oi co
operation in rfowarding social, com
mercial, agricultural and industrial
progress for all the men of this com
munity. As a club it has always stood ready
to co-operate with, other organizations
or individuals in any movement for
the betterment of conditions or the
physical improvement of the town.
Hut the success of the future cannot
be achieved by the work of the past;
while muph has been accomplished
there remains much to be done and
there is no better way of getting what
there is to do done than by working
together in and through the Boosters
Club.
Next Monday evening is the Annual
Meeting of this Club, the annual mem
bership dues of $1.00 are due at this
time and officers for the ensuing year
are to be elected. Every man living
in Wauseon or vicinity is eligible to
membership and every present mem
ber as well as those who have not as
yet joined this organization should be
present next Monday evening at 8
o'clock at the T. & I. Hall. . There is
just now an opportunity to have a
company of the Sixth Regiment Ohio
National Guards organized in Wau
seon and those who are interested in
the organization of such a company
will meet at T. & I.Hall at 7:30 for
the purpose of considering this propo
sition. It is not often that such an op
portunity comes and it means much in
the way of healthful exercise to those
who become members of such a com
pany as well as much to the town
where the company is located. If such
a company can be organized and main
tained in Wauseon eventually it will
bring a State Armory at no cost to
the town except the site and such a
building would solve the perplexing
'question of an auditorium of sufficient
capacity to accomodate public gather
ings, r . f
Every one interested in securing
the company for Wauseon should be
present Monday evening at 7:30 sharp
at T. & I. Hall. Bring a dollar with
you to pay for one year's member
ship in the Booster's Club and stay
for the meeting of that organization.
FOR RECORDER.
Mr. A. B. Thompson of Delta is a'
candidate for nomination for the Of
fice of County Recorder on the Re-
publican ticket at the Primary August
8th, 1916.
, Mr. Thompson lias had considerable
training that would ' equip him for
this office; he has served for four
years as clerk of the village of Delta,
and is at presents-serving his second
term as clerk of York township and
as clerk of the board of education of
that township. Mr. Thompson was
for eleven years agent of the Toledo
& Indiana Railway at Delta.
He asks the support of his fellow
Republicans at the August Primary
and assures them faithful' and effi
cient service if nominated and elect
ed to the office of County Recorder.
Adv.
NATIONAL GUARD COMPANY.
Colonel L. W. Howard of the Sixth
Regiment O. N. G. has informed Wau
seon parties that certain changes con
templated in his regiment will make
possible the placing of one company
in Wauseon providing enough men
can be found who are willing to enlist
in such a company. It is not very
often that such an opportunity offers
and there are many of the younger
men of this vicinity who are glad for
the chance to join such an organiza
tion. There will be a meeting of all those
interested on Monday evening at 7:30
sharp at T. and I. Hall. Come out and
boost. A company of Mhtia would
do much to boost Wauseon.
FOR REPRESENTATIVE.
In response to requests from citi
zens in various parts of the county,
Mr. F. H. Reighard has consented to
become a candidate for nomination
for the office of county representative
at the August Primary and has filed
the necessary papers. Mr. Reighard's
record in the last General Assembly
as a representative presents the
strongest kind of reason for his re
election to this office.
10,000 Yds. of White and Colored
Cotton Fabrics for Mid-Sum- .
mer Wear
This is one of the most interesting opportun
ities offered in a season for the purchase of the
many and timely fabrics for Summer Wear. All
having been so specially purchased that they are
marked to sell from
12 l-2c to 50c the yard
When in quest of a new summer frock, you will be
pleased to view our showings.
DRESS PATTERNS
G. A. R. ENCAMPMENT.
The general committee for the Gol
den Anniversary of the Department
of Ohio, Grand Army of The Repub
lic, to be held next week in Marion,
have issued the official program for
this event and with it the city of
Marion sends a most cordial invitation
to citizens of Ohio to come and enjoy
this great event with them.
At the same time the Fiftieth G. A.
R. Encampment is taking place the
Sons of Veterans and Auxiliaries will
hold their i Thirty-fourth Annual En
campment. The program is rich in matter of
interest to every patriotic citizen in
Ohio an dseems to be especially pre
pared for the entertainment and
pleasure of the Veteran Soldiers.
. Among -the noted people who will
speak during the Encampment are
Governor Frank B. Willis, Hon. G. M.
Saltzgaber, Commissioner of Pensions,
Senator Warren G. Harding; John Mc
Elroy, Editor of the National Tribune,
and Hon. Isaac R. Sherwood.
Delegates from Losure Post No. 35
G. A. R. are Comrades George New
comer and Sylvanus Stevens; from
the Woman's Relief Corps Mrs. I. E.
Bayes is the delegate an Mrs. Fes
tus Funk alternate.
NO CIRCUS.
The Fates seemed to decree, "No
Circus" for Wauseon last Wednesday
much to the disappointment of the
small boy and his Dad. Wheeler
Brothers Show which had been an
nounced as a big show, equalling if
not surpassing any circus organization
in the country exhibited at Kendal
ville, Indiana, Tuesday. Rumor has
it that the circus laborers were paid
off at Kendaville and that as Kendal
ville is a wet town these laborers in
vested so much of their earnings in
booze that they considered themselves
above hard labor and quit the job.
The consequence was that the' show
could not be loaded Tuesday night and
did not show up in Wauseon Wednes
day morning.
However that may be there was no
show in town this week.
MEMORIAL DAY ,
The Modern Woodmen, Knights of
Pythias and Pythian Sisters of Wau
seon observed last Sunday as Mem
orial Day. The exercises of the Wood
men were held in the forenoon. About
fifty-five Knights of Pythias went
from Wauseon in the forenoon where
they were joined by members of the
order resident in that place, graves
of deceased members in the Pettis
ville cemetery were decorated with
flowers and a memorial address given
by F. L. Huber.' In' the afternoon over
one hundred Knights and a good re
presentation from the Pythian Sis
ters temple headed by a band compos
ed of Knights proceeded to the Wau
seon cemetery where graves of de
ceased members were decorated and
Rev. Walter C. Schafer delivered a
memorial address.
WEATHER FORECAST.
Forecast for the week beginning
June 4, 1916.
Uhio valley and rennessee: -Fair
weather and moderate tem
perature the first half of the week;
unsettled weather, with local showers
probable after Wednesday.
Kegion ot threat .Lakes:
Fair weather-, with moderate tem
perature probable during the next
several days. Unsettled weather and
probable showers indicated for latter
part of week.
Many Women Need Help.
Women are as much inclined to
kidney trouble as are men, but too
. .. . ,
otten make tne mistaKe oi tmnmng
that a certain amount of pain and tor
ture is their lot and cannot be avoid
ed. ' Folev Kidney Pills give quick re
lief from backache, pains in sides
and muscles, stiff, sore, aching joints
and bladder ailments, l ink & liau
messer. CARD OF THANKS.
I wish to extend my sincere thanks
to friends and neighbors who so kind-
lv assisted me during the illness and
death of my husband; especially do
I thank the Kev. Williams and tne
choir, also those who contributed the
beautiful floral offerings.
MRS. D. T. MILLER.
ANNOUNCEMENT.
To the Republican voters of Ful
ton County: I will be a candidate for
the nomination of Sheriff on the Re
publican ticket to be voted at the
Primary August 8, 1916.
Respectfully,
FRED GRANDY.
Stick to Your Intentions.
Don't put off getting Hanford's Bal
sam of Mvrrh until something hap
pens. Get it now and be prepared for
accidents. You will find frequent use
for it in your home and m your stable
for cuts, burns, bruises and any sore.
any lameness. ( t-
ADVERTISED LETTERS.
Mr.. Harry Andrews, Dare Clark-
son, Mr. J as. Miller, Mr. Art lvioore,
Mr. A. G. Murrey.
EMIL WEBER, P. M,
SPEECH OF GOVERNOR WILLIS
At Chicago National Republican Convention, Nominat
ing Theodore E. Burton as Candidate For Presi
dent of The United States
History is to be made here today;
we shall make America greater or dis
appoint a world. - A mighty people,
yea, and nations beyond the seas await
our verdict. We are not gathered-to
pluck the ' fragrant, flowers of elo
quence, to indulge - in fulsome self
glorification or to engage in unhappy
factional contest. A reunited, deter-'
mined, forward-looking :. Republican
party demands that mere personal am
bitions and pride of opinion shall give
way to the welfare of the party and
the country. The faces uf the mighty
dead look down upon us and inspire
us to achievement worthy of their
heroic example. "United, we win;
divided, the Democrats win and the
country loses.'
The Republican party - - this - year
means business, and it expects us to
transact that business patriotically,
unselfishly and with an eye single to
the nations weal.
The fires of hatred and factional
strife have burned out. Let no man
sitting among the ashes sieze a fast
dying ember of discord and wave it
above his head as a battle-signal; the
Dattie oi iyiz is over no -apologies
should be asked or given by any man
for honest differences of opinion - in
that conflict 1912 is behind us, 1916
upon us the question is not
'What did you do then?" but "What
are you going to do now?" We face
the future confident in the ability of
the Republican party to sense the vast
problems of the day, diagnose our na
tional indisposition and provide a cure
no matter how the vitality of the
patient may have been sapped by four
years of Democratic experimentation
nor how-radical or far-reaching the
treatment required.
JN early two generations ago and al
most on this very spot the Republi
can party began to make national his
tory in the famous wigwam. When
it came into being, it found a treasury
bankrupt , business prostrate, the
country divided and overclouded with
impending civil war. Like the mighty
Hamilton, "It touched the corpse of
public credit and it sprang upon its
feet." It supported on its strong pro
tecting arm the frail and fainting in
dustries of the Republic and brought
them back to life; it kept all the
stars in the flag, their glory untar
nished and their luster undimmed; and
it elected and re-elected to the Presi
dency the first great Republican, the
emancipator of a race, the most - in
spiring soul in all our western world,
Abraham Lincoln.
Thus brought into being in the
travail of war, the Republican party
has written all there is worth' reading
of America!) history in the last nve
decades. It is but natural that a Re
publican should take delight in recit
ing his country history, for that' is
the history of his party; and by the
same token a Democrat conceives a
marked aversion for history and gives
full range to his imagination in the
wider field of prophecy.
The Republican party take - pride
in its past.-eagerly grapples with -the
problems of the present and faces the
dawn with confidence -and high pur
pose; our Democratic -friends would
like to forget their party's past, they
are not certain of its present attitude
on any great national -question . and
for the future they are thinking of
Molasses to catch, flies" at the next
election.
We are proud of what we have con
tributed to history, but our past per
formances are not our only assets.
We must not sit serene in self
satisfied contemplation of the work al
ready done; but inspired by an heroic
past and chastened by the fires -of de-
teat, let us gird up our loins to meet
new conditions and fight new battles.
Lexington and Yorktown had been
failures but for Gettysburg and. Ap
pomattox. Each generation has its
battles; to fight its problems to
solve. No party can win on pride of
ancestry or richness of inheritance
it must be willing and able to do the
world's work now; it cannot stand
still or turn back it must go ahead.
The Republican party deserves to live
and to win, because it has its. face
to the future, all aglow, in the con
sciousness of capacity for .service in
the solution of the problems of today
and of the experience and ptariotism
to guide, the ship of state on the un
tried, tempest-tossed seas .-. of tomor
row. The monumental folly and meddling
off iciousness of ' the present national
administration have needlessly com
plicated the problems of the present
rrR Q Ej
I II When a check is received bearing. II
H I the name, "First National Bank", it ! I
HI carries with it presture and the re- il
llll cipient knows the maker of the check
HI has sound banking connections. il l
I In offering the services of this bank, l
j we are placing at your disposal bank- jl
I II ing relations that must reflect to your II II
llll advantage in all your business II j
dealings, which is prestige. llll
First National Bank
' ' "The BANK-BY-MAIL Bank" II
U Wauseon, - - - - Ohio l,
1
and made imperative the return to
power of the Republican party to re
gain for the nation its lost prestige
abroad and' restore to its people a
stable industrial prosperity founded
on something more humanitarian and
abiding than the misfortunes of our
sister-nations. A prosperity fed upon
dead men's bones is ghastly and can
not long endure. A nation's pride,
a country's welfare are at stake here.
This is the time and place for clear
thinking, passionless poise and unsel
fish purpose. The eyes of the world
are upon you; you "shall nobly save
or meanly lose the last hest hope of
earth."
"The Republican party was made to
handle a situation like the present.
Our foreign relations are now in a
hopeless tangle, and Americans - are
less - proud of their country than they
once: 'were, even though we are as
sured on high authority that "we are
too proud to fight." The foreign pol
icy of the national administration has
brought chagrin at home and contempt
abroad; it has vacillated between the
pen and the sword, and its policy of
"watchful waiting" has demonstrated
that there is more of "waiting" than
of "watchfulness". We have alter
nately coddled all the chief bandits in
Mexico .nd supplied them with the
bullets which are now being sent back
to us in the mangled bodies of our
citizens and soldiers. We have lost
the confidence and gained the ill will
of every nation in Europe; their good
will and confidence can be regained '
only by the Republican policy of fair
ness to all, favoritism to none, with :
the maintenance of an absolute un
flinching neutrality among all the bel
ligerent powers.
The evil effects of the outworn sec
tional tariff -policy, adopted by the na
tional administration, have been, to
some extent, obscured by the fever
ish ephemeral activity whiclis the
outgrowth of the lamentable European
conflict. Every sane man knows that
but for this unnatural and inhumane
stimulus or industries would be pros
trate, and we would be face to face
with industrial depression, such as we
have not seen in a half a century. And
when this world-war ends, another
will begin; but that will be an indus
trial war that .will know no neutrals
all will be belligerents. As a military
and naval prepardness .adequate to
make any nation or combination - of
nations hesitate to violate the rights
of our citizens or the, sanctity of our
flag is a guaranty of peace, so ; in
dustrial preparation - through ' the
enactment of a Republican protective
tariff law is essential, if we would
maintain American wage rates ' and
standards of living. . ;
In the midst of world problems, we
need in the White House a red
blooded : American who knows the
world. The states of Central and Soutli
America are now luke-warm and
suspicious; we must nominate as our
candidate a man who knows them and
whom they know. The spirit of Pan
Americanism first found its expression
in the ringing voice of .the Plumed ;
Knight, James G. Blaine; if we would
regain our lost prestige in Latin
America and secure for our people
the opportunity for commercial ex
pansion which those countries afford
c . . . i i
we must win tneir commence uy plac
ing at the head of the nation a . man
in sympathy with their aspirations
and acquainted with their deeds. The -nominee
of this convention must be
a Republican seasoned in the -experi-
ences of the past, alive to, the needs
of the present and able to-hear and
heed the beckoning voice of the on
coming future." He must be a fearless
opponent of extravagance and a
staunch advocate of of old-fashioned "
. . . ' i r 1
economy; ne must Know me nscu
systemj of the country ana ne an un- .
compromising defender of the patri
otic nation-building policy of protec
tion to . American workingmen and
American enterprise. He must per--sonify
in record and character the
ideals and aspirations of the rank and
file of the party and thus promote
harmony and unity by holding fast
to, the lessons of wise experience on
the one hand and promoting sane
progress on the other. His record
must be not only unimpeachable, but
it must be well known there must
be nothing to uncover, nothing to ex
plain away, nothing to apolgoize for.
In public career and in private life
there must be no flaw in his armor, -no
stain upon his shield. He must be
(Continued, on page 4) , -
