Trie Echo has a
reading circulation
of over 4,000 per
sons who trade in
Leavenwortn. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 23
J. B. ADAMS HEADS
SKOOKUM PACKERS
Was Elected President of the New Apple
Organization at Seattle Meet
ing Last Saturday
At a meeting of apple growers from
the Washington, Oregon and Idaho
districts, held in Seattle last week and
adjourned Saturday, June 3, Mr. Adams
was elected president of the new organi
zation which controls the Skookum
trade mark, which, by the way, has
been copyrighted under a federal stat
ute. The following account of the
meeting is taken from the Wenatchee
World of Monday:
J. B. Adams, Leavenworth, presi
dent and general manager; E. W.
Sweeney, Hood River, vice-president;
H. J. Olive, secretary-treasurer.
Executive Commiitee —J. F. Sugrue,
Cashmere; C. E. Chase, Brewster; R.
T. Lovell, Sunnyslope; H. W. Otis,
Peshastin; Dr. A. H. Henry, North
Yakima.
Membership Committee —G.W. Bun
tain, Wenatchee; W. N. Irish, North
Yakima; E. W. Sweeney, Hood River.
The idea of advertising and exploit
ing Skookum apples has created much
interest so that the numerous requests
for licenses to pack were most gratify
ing. In addition to those who packed
Skookum last year, the following organi
zations will pack under this brand the
coming season:
Entiat Fruit Growers League.
Methow-Pateros Unit.
Okanogan Unit.
Omak Fruit Growers League.
Growers Service Company, North
Yakima.
Congdon Orchards, Yakiraa.
Baker-Langdon Orchard, Walla Walla.
Hillcrest Orchard Company.
Manson Fruit Growers Union.
The meeting was constructive and
harmonious thruout. All sections were
a unit on co operating for the best in
terests of the growers.
A. A. Rule of New York, manager
of the North American Fruit Exchange
was present and gave an interesting
talk on the apple situation and pros
pects and outlined the selling and ad
vertising campaign of Skookum for the
coming year, which met with the hearty
support of all present.
fORCSTRY NOTES
Forest Supervisor Sylvester left Thurs
day for Roslyn, Kittitas county, where
he will address the Commercial Club
of that place on the work the forestry
department is doing to make the Nat
ional Forest of greatest benefit to the
public.
Three or more flocks of sheep ar
rived this week from the winter range
sections and are being driven to the
summer range in the Wenatchee Nat
ional forest.
Unless present plans miscarry work
will begin next week on the extension
of a telephone line from Leavenworth
to Lookout peak, east of the Blewett
mining camps.
Mr. Hugo Price arrived last week
from the Arizona country with a crew
of men and will begin at once the sub
division of township 25, range 17 east
lying on the west side of Tumwater
canyon. Mr. Price is connected with
the engineering department of the U.
S. land office. He worked in the vi
cinity of the Icicle river last summer
surveying public lands.
The New Dining Room Open Sunday
Mr. O'Rourke of the Rainier Cafe
says the new dining room will be
thrown open to the public for Sunday
dinner. Come and get your dinner
and give the wife a rest. 23*
The Tumwater Under a New Proprietor
Mr. H. J. Taylor, recently from Wa
terwille, has taken a lease on the Tum
water Hotel, corner Commercial and
Eighth streets. Under the direction
of J. E. Faulkner it has been over
hauled this week.
tTbe Xeavenwoi'tb J&* ho
W/ 1J W ■*& W CiVvi IWWiVU Ass*'*; ,„,.; .„»
Big Timber Sale
The Portland, Oregon, office of the
Forest Service reports that the Forester
has approved the sale of 52,460,000
feet of timber on the Snoqualmie Na
tional Forest to the Tulalip Company
of Everett, Washington, and consists
of 15,500,000 feet of Douglas fir, 10,
--400,000 feet of western red cedar, 18,
--000,000 feet of western hemlock, and
8,560,000 feet of amabilis fir and
western white pine. The prices to be
paid for the timber by the Company
are 81.50 per M feet for the Douglas
fir and western white pine, $2.00 per
M feet for the western red cedar, and
50 cents per M feet for the other
species.
The cutting and removal of the tim
ber will begiu not later than May 1,
1917, and the Company will be given
until April 30, 1923 to complete the
contract. The sale foots up in round
numbers $75,000.
FORESTRY DEPARTMENT
ON BLEWETT HIGHWAY
Work to Begin Next Week--5 Per Cent
Grade--SB,OOO Will Be Spent-Two
Counties Will Co-operate
The long deferred improvement of
th s important state highway will begin
next week under the supervision of
S. A. Blankenship, who will have en
tire charge of the expenditure o! 88,000
to be spent by the forestry department
in reducing the grade to 5 per cent.
In a few short spaces this will be
slightly exceeded. The money will
be divided approximately in half be
tween the counties of Chelan and
Kittitas near the summit of Blewett
pass. The two counties will co-operate
with the forestry department and will
expend an amount almost equal to
that expended under the direction of
the department referred to. The use
of the old road will be interfered with
as little as possible, and its use, until
connection with the new road is made,
will not be interfered with.
The new survey cut out two bridges
that it has heretofore been necessary
to keep up. When finished the new
Blewett road will equal the best moun
tain pass roads in the state, while its
scenic attractions will exceed most of
them.
The Typhoid fever Situation
So far only three cases have devel
oped since the first outbreak. Paul
Weigand who is in the Leavenworth
Hospital is making satisfactory progress
toward recovery. Ross Irwin is in the
first stages but not considered in dan
cer. Mr. Beers, the civil engineer
who was brot down from the construc
tion camp up the canyon is not con
sidered in danger. Beers and Wei
gand are at the Leavenworth Hospital
while Mr. Irwin is at his home. ,Dr.
Judah says he is at a loss to account
for the outbreak of typhoid and has
sent Wenatchee river water to the
state bacteriological expert who pro
nounced it neutral. He has also sent
water from wells and other sources of
water supply but up to going to press
had not received an analysis.
Harry Dean, for a number of years
a resident of Leavenworth, but for the
past ten years living in Hillyard, aod
running a passenger engine between
this terminal and Hillyard. was here
last Saturday. He is the Hillyard
agent for the Dodge car and sold and
delivered a new car to Jack Johnson
and Rinehart Simonson, two railroad
men of this city. Mr. Dean has en
tirely recovered from the injury re
ceived near Wenatchee when his engine
turned over three months ago as the
result of an open switch. He had a
narrow call, and tho a little disfigured
he says he is as good as ever.
Mrs. Fred Miller came down from
Merritt yesterday and will be a guest
at the home of her father and mother
until the family gets settled at their
Dew home.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, June 9, 1916
TWO CONVENTIONS MEET IN CHICAGO
According to announcement the Republican and
Progressive Republican conventions met Wednesday in
Chicago. Beyond the formality of routine, effecting a
temporary organization, electing a temporary chairman
and appointing committees on platform and resolutions,
nothing of importance was done the first day.
Temporary Chairman Harding's opening speech in
the republican convention on Wednesday was followed
by slight demonstration. Not so in the Progressive
convention. When Temporary Chairman Raymond
Robbins first mentioned the name of Theodore Roose
velt in his opening speech, shortly after beginning, a
demonstration occurred that lasted one hour and thirty
three minutes, which is said to be the longest on record.
Every man was on his feet wildly cheering for Roose
velt and, only for the intervention of cooler heads, Roose
velt would have been nominated then and there. Both
conventions adjourned to Thursday to allow the commit
tees from the two conventions to meet in an endeavor to
bring about some kind of harmonious action. From the
latest information obtainable yesterday nothing definite
was arrived at and both conventions adjourned without
action until today, when it is believed both conventions
will act. The progressives have the easier job. But
one man is thought of, and the man is the platform.
They might, so far as a platform is concerned, go before
the country with their nominee. The republicans have
a more difficult job. There are some eight favorite sons,
each with a delegation behind him; besides Hughes and
Roosevelt, each of whom have votes in excess of any
favorite son. Hughes is in the lead, however. Accord
ing to the latest telegraphic news yesterday Hughes' fol
lowers were claiming his nomination on the second or
third ballot.
The Echo makes this prediction: If the republicans
fail to reach a nomination today the progressives will
meet tomorrow morning (Saturday), nominate Roose
velt without further effort to get together, and adjourn.
This would of course throw a bomb into the republican
convention, which is almost sure to then nominate
Hughes before the wise ones have time to consider the
effect. Mr. Hughes is certain to refuse the nomination.
What then?
fLAG DAY PREPAREDNESS
PARADE IN WENATCHEE
Wednesday, June 14~Expect 3,000 in
Line-People From Every Part of
County Expected
Wenatchee is making great prepa
rations for the Preparedness Parade to
be held on National Flag Day, June 14.
People from every Dart of Chelan
county are expected to attend and
march in the parade. 150 students,
each carrying a flag is to be a feature
of the parade. The Wenatchee band
will head the march and an effort is
being made to have the Leavenworth
band also take part.
A number of Leavenworth people
have already announced their intention
to attend the Flag Day celebration.
The Wenatchee Elks are also said to
be taking a deep interest in the move
ment.
Peshastin
The warm days of this week remind
us that spring has really come. Vege
tation has been very backward, due to
previous cool weather.
Joe Coons and A. C Gilbert have
the contract to clean out the school
house basement.
Hugh Stewart left Monday morning
for Spokane after spending several days
on the ranch with his wife.
Mrs. M. C. Courtney is home from
Portland where she has been receiving;
medical treatment. At present she is
much improved.
Mr. and Mrs. Bert Paul, who reside
near Methow, are the parents of a fine
daughter, born about June Ist. Mrs.
Paul was formerly Miss Mary Boston of
this place.
Louis F. Speidel of Leavenworth re
ceived the contract for erecting the
new school house and will start at
once as the work will have to be
rushed. Geo. Hauber has the contract
for the heating and plumbing, which
will be modern in every respect.
Jack Smith and Ida Coons left Wed
nesday for Seattle where they will spend
several weeks visiting.
Mrs. Robt. Garretson of Brewster
; is visiting at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
1 J. C. Garretson this week.
T. J. Gosslee of Seattle is here this
week looking after his apple orchard.
Frank Shell is in Seattle this week
! attending to business affaits.
Mrs. J. W. Sussex has been visiting
; her parents in Cashmere this week.
Mr. and Mrs. A, Bigelow took a
party of friends to Lake Chelan last
Sunday. They report a fine trip.
O. D. Reeves had the misfortune to
have one of his fingers badly crushed
a few days ago while loading a car of
lumber.
Peshastin lost the ball game at Dry
den last Sunday. This is the first de
feat our boys have had for a long time.
O. H. Green and family have moved
to Riverside, Wash , where they will
remain.
Mr. and Mrs. Carnahan have moved
into the old school house formerly oc
cupied by C. L. Barker.
Organize W. C. T. U. Branch
A local branch of the W. C. T. U.
was organized in Leavenworth Tuesday
by Mrs. Jackson Silbaugh, who is the
organizer and lecturer of the Women's
Christian Temperance Union. Mrs.
Silbaugh, who is also a member of the
State Industrial Welfare Commission,
delivered an addresses in the afternoon
and evening at the Methodist church
to good sized audiences. A meeting
of the newly organized society will be
held at the Methodist church Wednes
day June 14 at which meeting all who
are interested in the W. C. T. U. are
requested to attend.
6. N. Puts on More Men.
Due to the general increase in busi-
i ness and the general demands for cars
iof all varieties the Great Northern has
put on 75 additional men in its car
repair and locomotive repair shops in
Hillyard during the last two days.
There are about 850 men at work in
] the two shops, which is more than the
i company has been working at any
time for more than a year. The men
in the car repair shops are working
six days of 10 hours each, full time,
and the men in the locomotive repair
shops are working six days of nine
hours each, full time. —Spokesman-Re-
view June 7.
SUPREME LODGE OE
KNIGHTS OE PYTHIAS
For First Time Will Meet in Northwest
This Year—First Week in
August at Portland
For the first time in its history the
supreme lodge of the Knights of
Pythias will this year meet in the
Northwest, the newest and best section
of the United States, not only to enjoy
the events which always attend a meet
ing of the highest law-making body of
the order, but to visit the new scenic
wonders available to the traveler. The
convention opens August 1 and con
cludes its labors August 10.
For the K. of P. of Washington the
Portland convention will offer many in
teresting features, all of which the ex
ecutive committee in charge is urging
them to take advantage of.
On Monday night, July 31, the
special trains from the east will begin
to arrive and a reception will be ten
dered at the Armory. The general
public and all knights will have an op
portunity to meet and hear Supreme
Chancellor Brig. S. Young of Ada, Ohio;
Charles S. Davis, the brilliant Pythian
of Denver; Fred E. Wheaton, the su
preme keeper of records and seals, of
Minneapolis, and many other distin
guished knights.
Tuesday morning an official welcome
by state and city officials will be ex
tended at the Masonic Temple, where
the sessions of the convention are to be
held, and on Tuesday night, Aug. 1,
the visiting knights and their families
will be invited to the armory to hear
the greatest Pythian speaker who ever
lived, Walter B. Ritchie of Lima, Ohio.
Mr. Ritchie delivers a lecture on
"Friendship" that is one ol the clas
sics of the English tongue.
The Knights of Pythias is the only
order that has a military adjunct that is
recognized by the government. This
branch of the order will be represented
in the K. P. parade on Tuesday, Aug.
Ist. Other features of the ten-day
meeting is a clam-bake on the ocean,
an auto ride on the Columbia river
highway, and steamboat rides on the
river, a dinner of barbecued salmon
and many other interesting stunts.
The grand lodge of Washington will
be there, the Washington military regi
ment plans to hold its annual drill at
the same time, and also the Aberdeen
drill team expects to be on hand.
Leavenworth Man Get School House
Contract
The contract (or the rebuilding of
the fine school house burned at Pe
shastin last winter was awarded to L.
F. Speidel, a Leavenworth contractor
last week. Mr. Speide! will go to work
at once and rush the work to comple
tion as the building must be completed
in time for the openijg of school.
There were six bidders.
Shower for Bride-Elect
Mrs. Will Brender was hostess Thurs
day evening at a very pretty shower for
Miss Bessie Walker, whose marriage to
Mr. Thos. Pipkin will take place this
month.
The rooms were fragrant with a pro
fusion of spring flowers, and at a late
hour a delicious luncheon was served.
The guest of honor was the recipient
of many pretty and useful gifts.
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. If you want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
THE LOCAL CREAMERY
INCREASING OUTPUT
Cream Deliveries Rapidly Growing in
Volume—Report of Directors
Show Condition Sound
Manager Van Brocklin stated to a
reporter for the Echo this week that
the cream deliveries had increased in
the past few weeks and that at present
the weekly deliveries now run over
forty every week, while the weekly out
put of butter amounts to between
twelve and fifteen hundred pounds.
Because some of the Leavenworth mer
chants are not using the home butter,
and pushing butter shipt in from the
outside on which there is about two
cents per pound more profit to the
retailer, the home market is not con
suming all the creamery's output.
There is no question that the butter
made here is superior and always fresh,
and ought to have the preference with
the consumer. The directors recently
had a meeting and went over the busi
ness done the past year, the first since
the creamery was established, and
found it in sound financial condition.
The first eight months' run showed
that 85,742.59 had been paid to the
ranchers for cream, and that 87,355.64
worth of butter had been sold in the
same period. The investigation also
showed a net gain over cost of opera
tion of upwards of 8400.
It is confidently believed that this
year's business will double last year's
output for the same period of time.
Under Mr. Van Brocklin's management
the creamery has made steady progress
and the quality of butter turned out
compares with the best that comes to
this market. Cream deliveries are in
creasing every month. For a short
period of time the past winter when, on
account of the deep snow it was im
possible for the ranchers to make
prompt deliveries of cream, there was
some complaint about the butter not
being firstclass, but this was due to the
fact that it was impossible to deliver
cream every week and it became stale
and impaired the quality of the butter.
The cream was accepted by the man
ager to help the cow owners out, well
knowing the result, but thought it his
duty to help them out under adverse
and unavoidable difficulties. A meet
ing of the stockholders will be held to
morrow evening at the creamery for the
purpose of electing a new board of
directors.
RAILROAD MEN KILLED
IN IDAHO WRECK SATURDAY
Engineer McGinn Well Known—Fireman
Dempsey Formerly Lived Here
Last Saturday, when a Great Northern
passenger train hit a rock slide near
Katka, Idaho, early in the morning,
derailing the engine which plunged
headlong into the Kootenai river, it
carried with it engineer H. A. McGinn
and fireman Edmond Dempsey. The
engine went out of sight in the raging
river which is high at this time of year
as a result of the melting snow in the
mountains. A mail clerk and some
employes in the cars next to the engine
were injured but none seriuusly. Four
Italians in the smoking car were
scratched but not seriously hurt. Pas
senger traffic was delayed five hours.
Engineer McGinn was well known
here among railroad men and Fireman
Demsy had lived here before going to
the eastern division.
New Hospital Almost Completed
The hospital building on Front
street, begun three weeks ago by Dr.
McKeown, is rapidly approaching com
pletion. The past week the furniture
and fixtures were being installed.
Nate Coleman, for a number of years
a citizen of this city and still interested
in Leavenworth property, now living in
Tacoma where he is interested in the
automobile business, spent several days
here last week on business affairs.
