TmTT <i /& __
fi ' r @ AYAVwib®! kr n
ELEVENTH YEAR. No. 51.
DEDICATING W. O. V. I. SYSTEM
Wednesday was one of those perfect
Okanogan days that make life so de
lightful in this valley, and seemed es
pecially prepared by FTovidence for
that date, the celebration of the open
ing of the West Okanogan Valley Irri
gation system. Not only were there
tunny present from the immediate sur
rounding country, but the town had
for guests some of the leading men of
the state and representatives of the
largest business interests of Seutle,
Spokane, Bellingham and Wenatchee,
it was stated by visitors present who
were in a position to know that this
was the most representative body of
men connected with big business that
has ever taken part in an excursion
it. this state. People were here from
various parts of the state, such as
Olympia, Davenport, Waterville and
other places, to say nothing about
those nearer home. It was Just the
kind of a body of men most desired
upon an occasion of this nature and
this magnitude.
The town, or at least Main street on
both sides of the track, was profusely
decorated, the national colors being
elaborately displayed. The electric
lighting at night being a very attract
ive feature.
The special train of ten coaches,
containing Spokane and Seattle dele
gations and visitors from various way
stations, was two hoars late, and the
large crowd in town was kept waiting
for the beginning of the day’s pro
ceedings. This delay was anforseen
and unavoidable. The special did not
arrive until 1 o'clock, and within a few
minutes palled oat for Nighthawk
crowded with people desirous of seeing
the headgates and the work accom
plished along the line of the main
canal, which parallels the river. This
gave the visitors an opportunity to see
the miles of flaming clinging to the
rugged rocky blaffs, the great salts
works that is making Oroville famous,
the magnificent rapids and falls of the
Similkameen. the potential power of
which is eventually to be a large fac
tor in the industrial advancement of
this upper country.
Immediately upon the return of the
special speaking took place from the
band stand in the Civic League park,
and a dense mob listened patiently to
very interesting speeches by Gov. Lis
ter, Mayor H. C. Gill of Seattle, Prof.
0. L. Waller, vice-president of the
Washington State College, at Pullman,
and Judge F. V. Grown, of Seattle,
counsel of the Great Northern Rail
way. The speakers were introduced by
Dr. D. H. Lewis, president of the Oro
ville Commercial Club.
At the close of the speaking an auto
mobile parade followed, participated
in by more than 50 cars. The route was
along and above the west shore of Oso
yoos lake, giving the visitors a chance
to see that beautiful sheet of water.
The procession doubled back to the
high point of land east of town where
the syphon carries the water across
the Similkameen river, and from which
point of vantage is a magnificent view
of the Okanogan valley.
Here the dedicatory exercises proper
were carried out. S. B. Starrett, Jr.,
acted as master of ceremonies, Intro
ducing the several speakers. Governor
Lister, Mayor J. F. Samson, George 1.
Cole, C. M. Fassett of Spokane, Arthur
Watts, of Bellingham, Otto Case of Se
attle and Fred W. Graham, immigra
tion agent of the Great Northern de
livered brief and eulogistic addresses.
As the closing feature little Miss Ada
Truax dedicated the system by pouring
water and throwing flowers into the
canal.
At 6:30 Interest centered about the
hose race, betwen the north and south
side hose companies, which was won
by the south side company.
The celebration closed In the even
ing with an informal smoker in the
fiyic League building, especially given
in honor of the Wenatchee Commercial
Club, President Lewis called upon a
number present, all of whom respon
ded in a very happy and humorous
vein. The entertainment was enhanced
by musical selections provided by the
Wenatchee Quartette.
Quite a number of the visitors had
to return home Wednesday night and
when the special pulled put at
9 o’clock, but Governor Lister, Mayor
CHI and many others remained in Oro
ville over night, some going up into
British Columbia Thursday morning,
tlic majority going to Tonasket to take
Part in the celebration at that place.
The Wenatchee contingent, repre
senting the Commercial Club of that
Place some 75 or 80 strong, came
through in autos, making the run from
Twlsp Wednesday morning, reaching
here about noon, They were the same
wide awake boosters that have visited
Oroville on previous occasions and
'nade their presence felt. The follow
ing were among the Wenatchee visi
tors: Mr, and Mrs. J. B, Adams of Lev-
enworth and Seattle Friends: C. A.
Carpenter and S. A. Ewing; Mr. and
Mrs. G. E. Headricks, John Isenhart,
Geq. B. Fisher; Mr. and Mrs. T. J.
Henry. Mr. and Mrs. T. Sorensen, Mr!
and Mrs. R. F. Johnson; Mr. and Mrs.
G. C. Jones; Mr. and Mrs. L. 1,. Math
ews; W. B. June, H. F. McNeal; W. B.
Haddington. P. P. Holcomb, W. 11. Lit
tle, L. T. Usman; Mr. and Mrs. A. W,
McDonald, Mrs. J. T. Brown, Miss
Brown; Mr. and Mrs. McKlnstrey; Mr.
and Mrs, W. D. Shultz; Fred W. Slrali
ler, J. H. Stout, H. N. May, C. W. Wil
meroth; J. P. Sharkey, H. Van Land
Ingham. F. F. Kurz; C. W. Soderling;
Mr. and Mrs. C. G. Hansen of Water
vine, Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Wilson, Mr.
and Mrs. F. J. S. Stebbins; Mr. and
Mrs. L. V. Lampher, Merle Lampher
W. H. Barnhart, Rex Stewart, J. Ad
ams, Poster Luce.
The following were on the excursion
of the Seattle Chamber of Commerce
to the Oroville celebration of the com
pletion of the Irrigation project: Gov
ernor Ernest Lister, Mayor Hirarm C.
Gill of Seattle; H. C. Henry, president
Northern Life Insurance Company;
Hon. Carrol B. Graves. Fred T. Fischer
ot Fischer Bros.; George Albers, Al
bers Bros. Milling Co.; E. G. Anderson,
Western Dry Goods Co.; J. T. Harde
man, Hardeman Hat Co.; W. L. Bliger,
Seattle Hardware Co.; Wm. F. Strohoff
of the Black Mfg. Co.; P. C. Kefauver,
Schabacher Bros. & Co.; Edgar
Schwabacher, Schwabacher Hardware
Co.; Daniel Bass, Hotel Frye; A. S. El
dridge, Northwest Buick Co.; O. B.
Ayres, Puget Sound Traction Light A
Power Co.; Samuel J. Wettrick, Trans
portation Bureau, Seattle Chamber of
Commerce: Leonard Martin, North
west Mutual Fire Insurance Co.; Fred
W. Graham, Western industrial Agent
G. N. Ry.; Ralph H. Hall, Staff Corres
pondent, Post intelligencer; Judge F,
V. Brown, Western Counsel G. N. Ry.
Co,; I. Waring, Assistant Gen'l. Supt.
G. N. Express Co.; J. H. O’Neil, Gen
eral Western Supt. G. N. Ry.; L. F.
Dietz, Staff Seattle Chamber of Com
merce; Roy O. Hadley, Assistant Sec
retary, Seattle Chamber of Commerce.
The Spokane Chamber of Commerce
furnished the following list of gentle
men as representatives of that active
body, who arrived on the same train
as the Seattle delegation, via. We
natchee:
C. M. Fassett, City Commissioner.
Vice President Spokane Chamber of
Commerce; Hal J. Cole, U. S. Land
Office; F. H. Finley, Barnard Manu
facturing Co.; W. E. Bevins. Washing
ton Cracker Co.; Stanley Mayhall,
Armstrong Machinery Co.; D. L.
Woods, Harry L. Oliver Co.; Thos A.
Geraghty, Spokesman Review; E. A.
Smith, Twice-a-Week Spokesman Re
view; J. M. Fitzpatrick. Union Iron
Works; E. D. Thompson, Holly Mason
Hardware Co.; E. Vaughn Klein, Spo
kane Eastern Trust Co.; Glen Powell,
Powell Sanders Co.; E. C. Paterson,
Spokane Dry Goods Co.; O, C. Jensen,
Jensen-King-Byrd Co.; Thos. Corkery,
Attorney: W. G. Hannam, Interstate
Fair; L. Benge, Merchant, Sterling,
Colorado; Richard Unger, John W.
Graham Co.; Scott O’Leary, John W.
Graham Co.; W. P. Romans, Traveling
Secretary, Spokane Chamber of Com
merce; R. C. Mlchkils, G. N. Ry.; R. C.
Shaw, G. N. Ry.: Alonzo Murphy.
LOOKING OVER THE FIELD.
W. M. Manning, a mining engineer of
Spokane, has been in town this week
for several days working out over the
surrounding country inspecting mining
properties. Mr. Manning has devoted
much of his time for a number of years
to the various mining camps in the
Coeur d’Alenes, where mining has
long ben an established industry, pro
ducing fat fortunes for lucky owners
and operators. He states that all the
desirable proi erties in that district
are now held by individuals who do not
care to let go or operating companies,
and there is little chance to secure
control of claims worth while, hence he
is turning his attention to other fields.
Another feature that is a handicap to
the starting of new enterprises in the
Coeur d’Alenes Is the presence in
hordes of the wild catter, it being a
rich territory for those of that kidney
to work in. for the very name “Coeur
d’Alene” Is an open sesame to the
pockets of Investors. He has heard con
siderable recently as to the mineral
showings in this part of the state, and
he is here to see for himself and obtain
first had information. Personally Mr.
Manning is an exceedingly agreeable
gentleman to meet, and we trust that
he will be able to find something
around here that will warrant him in
making Oroville his headquarters for
a long time to come. He understands
his busines thoroughly, and should
he elect to become interested in any
mining property hereabouts that ac
tion would be conclusive evidence that
the property was worth looking into.
OROVILLE, WASHIN VTON, JUNE 9. 1916.
POWER PLANT SOLD.
Eugene Enloe, of Spokane, and a
number of the firm of Sivyer & Enloe,
«as In Oroville three or four days last
week ; returning to his home Monday,
Mr. Enloe was here on a very Impor
tant mission. Some short time ago the
linn of Sivyer & Enloe filed a bid for
the Similkameen power plant, operat
ing at the tails of the Similkaiueen
river, supplying illumination for Oro
ville and such power as the residents
in this locality engaged in any indus
try or business required, which by the
way, is not a great deal when summed
np in watts. The power company was
in the hole financially, and a quick
buyer was almost imperative. The
chief stock holders in the plant were
the beneficiaries in the Hagerty es
tate, who were represented by a very
shrewd Milwaukee attorney. He did
not consider the first bid as stiff ns he
thought the property was worth, and
pulling the case up to a syndicate of
Milwaukee capitalists secured a con
siderable ol a raise on the original
sum offered. For divers reasons, and
particularly because the power site is
really a thing of value, if the plant is
not, and means to produce power is
what Messrs. Sivyer & Enloe need In
their business, the firm was anxious to
attach this particular plant. Being in
-1 oniicd that their bid had been boosted
Mr. Enloe, who is a good sport, ap
peared on (lie scene and offered to re
lieve the Milwaukee people at their
own figures, and as the gentlemen
from the town that beer has made fam
ous were not crazy to own that kind
01 property so far from home cheer
fully acquiesced and the plant was
turned over to the Spokane firm, or
will he on the 15th of this month, the
necessary cash to hind the bargain
having exchanged hands.
It is just as well and some better
that the transaction turned out as it
did. Messrs. Sivyer & Enloe have han
dled live wires so long that they have
absorbed much of the kick carried by
such wires. They are already Interest
ed In power production in this county,
operating a plant on the Methow river
and the deal places *n their posses
sion one of the beat water powers In
the state. We are not in a position to
go into any particulars as to the future
intentions of the new owners, but it
is understood that the company will
spend upwards of SIOO,OOO in better
ments. one Important Improvement,
which will increase available horse
power many fold, will be the construc
tion of a concrete dam. The demand
for service is going to increase stead
ily in this valley and vicinity, and the
new owners propose to be in position
to meet any and all demands that may
arise.
— -«#►
THE LAST SAD RITES.
The funeral of the late Henry Hof
meier was held Saturday afternoon
from the chapel of the Barnes under
taking parlors, Rev. A. W. Bond offi
elating, under charge of the Oroville
Fite Department, the deceased having
been a member of the chemical engine
company. There was a large attend
ance at the services and a Ion,? pro
cession of automobiles followed the
remains to Odd Fellows cemetery.
Henry llofmeler was 59 years of age
and a native of Germany, coming to
ibis country when unite a young man.
He lias lived on the coast a number of
years, locating in Oroville some three
or four years ago. He was a quiet, law
abiding, industrious citizen, inoffen
sive and peaceable in his relations with
his fellowmen. During the past year
he was tlie janitor of the high school,
and won the esteem and respect of
both teachers and pupils by his uni
form kindness, courtesy and thought
fulness. He was gentle and sympath
etic with the school children, lending
them aid and assistance whenever op
portunity or occasion presented, and
always ready and willing to carry out
any request made by the teachers. In
Ms family lie was a loving and devoted
husband and father..
In iiis earlier life the deceased was
an active man, taking much interest in
civic affairs. He worked for years in
the railroad shops at Eugene, Oregon.
He was an active and valuable member
of the Eugene tire department. He
served a long term in the National
guards of Oregon and was quartermas
ter seargent of his regiment. He was
honorably discharged when he left
that state. He has been a member of
tlie Order of Eagles, but permitted his
membership to lapse. A worthy and
excellent citizen was Henry Hofmeier,
and his untimely and tragic death is
deplored by all who knew him.
The dye and chemical exhibit in the
window of the Oroville Investment
company’s office was one of the great
attractions of the celebration. There
was a large assortment of various val
uable ingredients that enter into in
dustrial and commercial use that have
been extracted from ores and depos
its in tliis neighborhood by C. W.
Smith.
UNDER SERIOUS CHARGE.
Coroner’s Jury Hold Three Men as Dl
rectly or Indirectly Responsible
for Death of Henry Hofmeier.
At the adjourned hearing of the cor
oner’s inquest held last Friday to de
terndne the cause of the death of Hen
ry fiofmeler, further evidence was
elicited that caused the Jury to bring in
a verdict that implicated, directly or
indirectly, A. J. Wickersham, Angus
McLean and Lester Armstrong. As a
result warrants were issued against
the three men. who were at once ar
rested, Armstrong and McLean are in
the county jail at Okanogan and Wick
ersham is at large on $2,000 bonds. A
preliminary examination will be held
in Oroville today (Friday).
After all the testimony had been tak
en in the hearing before the coroner’s
jury |ust Thursday evening, and about
1 o’clock Friday morning, as the Jury
was consulting over a verdict, It was
learned that more evidence in the case
had been unearthed, and the coroner
continued the case until 10 o'clock Fri
day morning. During Thursday after
noon, while the hearing was in pro
gress, Deputy Sheriff Clair Ward
hiked up to Fairview for the purpose
of trying to secure evidence that might
throw more light on the mysterious
case, and four or five persons, includ
ing Dr. Germain, customs officer at
Osoyoos, freely volunteered to come
across the line and testify.
The evidence given by Wickersham,
McLean and Armstrong was conflict
ing in nearly every detail except that
in reference to the actions and condi
tion of the deceased, while Wicker
sham’s memory was so treacherous
that he could remember hardly any
thing regarding the Incidents of the
trip. It was pretty well established
that the party of four, Wickersham,
Armstrong, McLean and Hofmeier, left
here between 2 and 3 o’clock Wednes
day afternoon. May 31, for Fairview, on
a pleasure jaunt. At Fairview the three
witnesses declared and were confident
that Hofmeier was in the bar room of
the hotel only a few minutes, not over
half an hour at the utmost; that they
all treated and that he took only a few
drinks; that there was nothing notice
able or unusual in his actions; that
without saying a word to any one he
went out of the bar room, one said by
a side door, the other by a front door,
and entered the car, which was under
a lean-to shed. This evidence was cor
roberated by all three witneses. It was
alleged that the three men continued
drinking, even eating supper, and did
not leave Fairview until about dusk,
Wickersham swearing that the lamps
in the hotel were lit, the others not
being able to remember as to the
lights. It was further alleged by all
three they came straight through
to Oroville, stopping on the way but
once, on this side of the line, reaching
town at 10:15 p, m. They declared that
none of the party was unduly intoxi
cated. Two swore that they stopped at
the Osoyoos customs house, McLean
being positive that they did not. Arm
strong and Wickersham swore that
they had one bottle of liquor and no
more; that they all three drank from
the bottle on the way down, without
offering any to Hofmeier, and threw
the bottle away before it was empty,
although McLean swore that he did
not drink on the return trip. They all
swort that Hofmeier was sitting up in
the back seat with a lap robe around
him when they started from Fairview,
as though he was asleep, and that he
did not move or say a word on the
trip home. They made no examination
of the man at any time, nor said any
thing to him, nor attempted to wake
him up until they arrived on this side
of tiie line, when Wickersham ordered
everybody to wake up. They claimed
that it was then for the first time that
they discovered that there was any
thing wrong with Hofmeier. They lit
two or three matches to look at him,
they tried to arous him by shaking,
McLean swearing that they even in
serted the point of a knife blade under
the finger nail, but could see no re
sponse in the way of life. The car was
then rushed to Dr. Lewis’ residence in
town. Upon examination the doctor
pronounced Hofmeier dead.
That was the substance of the testi
mony of the three witneses. Drs. Lewis
and Carmichael had previously testi
fied as to the condition of the body as
demonstrated by an autopsy, declaring
that deceased had suffered a contusion
on the right side of the head. While
the skull was not fractured there was
blood clots between the skull and in
side tissues and between the scalp and
skull. The injury might be sufficient
to cause death, although the doctors
were not prepared to say that death
resulted directly from that cause. The
organs of the body were in a healthy
condition.
The testimony given by the wit
nesses Friday refuted much of that
given by VVickersham, McLean and
Armstrong. The barkeeper from Fair
view, who served the visitors, swore
that Hofmeier had shown signs of
being sick while In the barroom and
that be and Wickersham assisted the
deceased to the car, where they left
him. Another witness stated that he
had examined the car as it was stand
ing in the shed, and at that time Hof
meier was In the seat apparently
aslfeep. Witnesses testified that Arm
strong was almost helplessly intoxi
cated, and was lying on the ground
near the car at one time. They further
stated that the party left Fairview
about 6:30 p. m. Dr. Germain swore
that the party did not report at the
customs office until 9:45, hence they
were three hours and fifteen minutes
traveling 14 miles.
On the strength of this testimony the
jury, composed of such wellknown cit
izens as E. A. McMahan, Cbas. Powell,
sr., Chas. T. Peterson, W. Leonard
Davis, Bert Mills and E. R. Hoose,
rendered the following verdict:
"We, your Jury, find that deceased
met his death betwen the hours of 6:30
and 8 o'clock p. m., on May 31, 1916,
somewhere between Fairview, B. C„
and Osoyoos, B. C., by a blow from a
blunt instrument, and that A. J. Wick
ershain, Angus McLean and Lester
Armstrong are held responsible for ttie
crime, or accessories after the fact.”
The three men were at once taken
into cutody by Sheriff Stark and plac
ed in Jail. As stated above Armstrong
and McLean were taken to Okanogan
fur incarceration in default of bail, and
Wickersham was released on $2,000
bonds.
There Is still much mystery about
this case, which will no doubt be
cleared up at the examination today.
From all indications a crime was com
mitted, possibly not premeditated.
There is much yet to be explained.
From all indications the deceased must
have bled profusely, and yet there was
no blood upon his face, excepting a
small clot in the mustache, when the
remains were first examined by the
doctor. The overcoat Hofmeier wore
going out of Oroville, was under dm
on his return, and on the sleeve and
skirt were large blood stains. Under
taker Barnes also states that there was
blood on his shoes. He was bareheaded
when he reached here and his cap was
afterwrds found along the road. It is
the concensus of opinion, although
only conjecture, that a quarrel occur
red on the road between Fairview and
Osoyoos, that one of the party struck
Hofmeier with some blunt instrument
without intention of doing mortal in
jury, and that the men were so alarm
ed over the result of the blow that they
framed up the story told on the wit
ness stand in order to shield the guilty
one.
S. S. CONVENTION.
Everything has been a glorious suc
cess in Oroviiie this week, and among
the successes none were greater than
(he County Sunday School convention
held here Monday and Tuesday. There
were delegates present from all parts
of the county, and the Presbyterian
church was crowded to overflowing at
every session. The meetings were in
teresting and instructive, and the con
ference will encourage increased ac
tivity in Sunday school work. Visitors
were entertained by residents of the
town who threw their homes open to
the strangers. The convention was the
best from every point of view ever
held in the county, and all who were
here carried away pleasant memories
of the visit.
BUBIAL OF HENBY JOLLY.
Mention was made last week of the
frightful mutilation of Henry Jolly, by
being thrown against a saw in a mill
near Havillah, and the subsequent
death of the unfortunate man at Spo
kane, where be was taken immediately
after the accident to be placed in a
hospital. The doctors never operated
on Mr. Jolly as the shock of the in
jury, the great loss of blood and the
distance traveled after the accident
put him in such a feeble condition that
operation was useless, as his recovery
was impossible. The remains were
brought back to Oroviiie last Friday
evening for burial. As the deceased had
at one time been an Odd F'ellow, Mrs.
Jolly desired to have the funeral con
ducted by that order, and therefore
the local lodge took charge of all ar
rangements for the interment. Thu
funeral took place at 11 o'clock Sunday
morning from Odd Fellows hail and
Rev. A. W. Bond conducted the ser
vices. A large number of Odd Fellows
and friends of deceased showed their
last respects to the departed by at
tending the services and following the
remains to the cemetery.
The deceased was an old settler of
the north part of the county, steady,
industrious, and highly respected by
all who knew horn. He leaves a wife
and other relatives to mourn bis tragic
death.
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
the town council of the town of Oro
ville, Washington, June 5, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Council
men Beale Frlis and Smith.
Minutes of the previous meeting
read and approved as read.
Letter in regard to the bond of Silk
Ai La Plant was read and the clerk
was instructed to return the bond to
tile bonding company.
Letter from the attorney general in
regard to the town building and re
pairing bridges adjacent to the town
was read and ordered placed on file.
The monthly report of Jas. Ferguson
as police Justice, was read and was
accepted. The monthly report of the
town treasurer was read and ordered
placed on file.
An ordinance granting a franchise
to the Pacific States Telephone and
Telegraph company was read and on
motion passed its first and second read
ing. Mr. Keeler then appeared before
the council asking as to the procedure
in regard to the closing and vacating
of certain streets and alleys In the
south part of town.
tin motion the following bills were
allowed and ordered paid; E. J. Wil
son, salary, $75.00; E. R. Uoose, sal
ary, postage and express, 11U2.75. Jas.
Ferguson, police justice fees, $12.40.
E. A. McMahan, salary, $17,750. J. At
kin, tire department service, $7.00. W.
Wentworth labor on water works,
$5.20. A. S. Pratt, drying fire hose.
$2.50. John Collins, labor on water
works, $19.80. Schultz & Son, freight
and drayage, $8.12. L. C. Gray, drayage
75c. Waterous Engine Works, repairs
on tire hydrant, $7.25. Union Iron
Works, pipe, $19.31. Standard Oil Co.,
oil $5.57. Spokane Drug Co., soda and
acids, $20.16. Gazette Publishing Co.,
printing, $19.10. H. J. Desmond, sup
plies water and fire department, $4.95.
Oroville Garage, shop work, $36.50.
Oroville Telephone Co., telephone,
$3.00. Sirallkameen Power Co., light,
and power $142.65. E. B. Hendrix,
shale rock, $1.75. On motion the coun
cil adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk. '
Minutes of a special meeting of the
town council of the town of Oroville,
Washington, called pursuant to a reso
lution passed and entered by the town
council on the Bth day of May, 1916,
for the purpose of a hearing m the
matter of the application ot the Pacific
Telegraph & Telephone Co., for a fran
chise under ordinance No. 28 of the
Town of Oroville and ordinance No.
64 amendatory thereto.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councllmen
Leale, Frits and Starrett.
In the absence of the clerk motion
was made and carried that Council'
man Sterritt act as clerk.
The application of the Pacific Tele
phone & Telegraph Co. t for a fran
chise to operate a telephone and tele
graph business in the town of Oroville
was read by sections and the follow
ing changes were made wherever the
word thoroughfore appeared In the
ordinance the word public was insert
ed in front of it making it read (public
thoroughfares) and in section 3 of the
13th line after the words “the use of"
the word (three) be inserted in the
place of (two), after these changes
were made motion was made by Coun
cilman Beale that the petition be
granted, motion seconded and carried.
Motion was made and carried that
the Mayor and Clerk be authorized to
cn'er into contract with the Pacific
Telephone and Telegraph Co., ror the
operation of the fire alarm system.
On motion the council adjourned.
S. B. STARPET,
Clerk, P. T.
STILL STRONG IN FAITH.
C. S. Jennings, who has been engag
ed in mining and promoting mines for
a number of years, and who lived for
some time in Loomis, spent a few days
in Oroville this week. Mr. Jennings has
lost none of his faith in the mineral
possibilities of northern Okanogan
county. While in the country he spent
much of his time investigating various
prospects, and feels satisfied that with
the investment of some capital paying
mines can be made in this locality. At
present he pins his faith to a group of
claims located in Horse Springs cou
lee, a few miles southwest of Oroville,
bearing the name of “Yellow Olrl."
This property has been examined by
experts, both mineralogists and mining
engineers, and samples from the ledge
or dyke—for the mineral seems Infused
through the rock over a large surface,
—runs very high in gold and copper.
Mr. Jennings believes that he has at
last secured financial backing to carry
on development far enough on the
“Yellow Girl” to demonstrate Its true
value us a mine. He also states that
the people who secured the old Rain
bow mine, on Palmer mountain, some
time ago, propose putting in a plant
this summer and working the mine on
a large scale.
$1.60 PER TEAR
