i rtl tf' Hid
i im . mm
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1916.
NUMBER (i.
May Weather.
May, 1010, wn much like thnt of
lino com ami wet, mm while nol
unlit so much rain fell no n yenr ago.
there war only n difference of I .(!,
incurs, i ne normni rnmrnn tor .May
I )..".() Inches, while thin vrar we hn I
7.23 lnche., which resulted In flooding
portion or the .Missouri nml rsoilnwny
bottom fnrmlnir Innd. nml It in not
likely thnt owing to the wrt enroll
Hons of the lands thnt they will be
nble to produce corn sufficient for
their own needs. Alfalfa nml wlieat
suffered greatly, nothing beinp pro.
Aluccd by renfon of these cnml'.tlons,
The heaviest rnlnfnll wn 2.1ft Inches
which fell on the 12th. We have hn.l
more rnlnfnll thun we had In HUft or
It'll In .Mny, 1800, we had l.'.OO In
rhesi lon. we had 12.72 Inches: l'M,
we hnd 8.00 Inches.
Six Inches of rain Is reported to
have fallen at lllgelow on the 11-12;
1 Inches nt Maltland, and a.CT nl Ore'
Kn.
In tcmpornluio, the month was 1
ncgross uciow tnc normal, nml only
one druree nlMivn tlmt .r n r,,...
The coolest .May ever known here wa
in jimu, wncn tne mean temperature
was Co degrees tho normal being K)
iivsm un inc isi ami ii of the
month thin yenr overcoats ami wraps
In 1007 wo bad snow, Ice nml hall:
on the L'ci, 2 Inches Of snow fell. In
:S ". nni1 trrp "f "mw on the
-'0th. hi WIS wo had n heavy frost
on the f.th. Cth and 7th. In 18811,
frost ruined the Hardens on the 21st.
In 1801 ami 1805, the same conditions
existed. In 1871, we had 2 Inches of
snow on the 10th. In 187ft, we had
J'i Inches of snow and one Inch of
icr.
The Nodaway river was out of Its
''' during n,o week of May 20, nnd
ji.r .irriiuri river was making heavy
Inroaib on the farms south of Finest
City nnd west of Forbes.
'I he extreme for May, 1010, were:
1
.i
.'"!!!
10
18..,.
Mln.
...38
...no
...40
...40
. . .')
Mnv
C 80
85
Si 85
- s:i
.. 81
Mean maximum. 71: n.n ,i..i.
mum, ft!; inenn, Oil.
Ilnlnfall for Mny, T.2.'l Inches,
tni'r'tli ,w,",y"f"1"' -I'1 on
Missouri Floods.
The floods of the past few weeks
have been doing some strange thing
In the Missouri lliver Imttoms, along
the rorost Clty-Whlle Clnnl road. In
the cutting of a channel Into the Mis
souri lliver.
Klmsey Creek, from the east, hav
ing run ncross nnd over the channel
Y the ,iunw Creek ililch. and filled
this full of depoMt, and this All hnv
lug been extended westwanl has push
ed the flood waters toward the river,
nml the land owners on the east of
the Sipiaw Creek illlrh, by holding tin.
levee and raising 11 below the 111!
raised the water level to a point,
which forced the water over the river
bank nenr the lltirr Oak school house,
ami a channel has been cut varying
In width from 40 to 80 feet, and sl
to eight feet In depth, commencing nt
the southeast corner of the Ift acre
tract of Nancy Pllklngton. off the
southwest iiunrter of Section 27,
runnshln CO. Kongo and extend
ing In a northeasterly direction nbout
40 rods. The water has lieen slowly
rolling for some days, nml donger
from further cutting Is past, unless
thoro should bo a lecurrencc of con
ditions. Floods In the bottoms have been ex
tensive from Forest City to Crulg, ami
immense damago done. Apparently
the flood waters of l.lttle Tarklo were
greater than during the last season,
the water at some points being much
higher.
The old abandoned hull of the
dredge boat on l.lttle Tnrklo, from
northeast of Cralir, was carried down
the channel and on down Into the
channel of the III Tarklo, to n
W. V0Ut mile north ami west
of IIIkcIow.
Immcnso financial loss will result
from these floods, as the lands will bo
left so wet anil saturated that crops
cannot bo raised on them this season.
i .
The Marriage llccord.
Recorder Dankcrs has the "blues,"
Rood anil plenty, becauso there were
so very few persons Inclined to bo
joined In holy weillock during the
month of May. Ho says ho only is
sued six licenses during the month,
ir ,,;n.,,,' 'or'i"". "nil Miss Ktta
V?nV ckle, of Craig. May 6, by John
. Vtilson, J, I',
Glenn, Charles W.. of Oregon, and
Anna May IhHkln, of New Point, May
10, by Itev. T .1). Iloberts.
A etcalf. Win., and Mary Joscphlno
right, of Maltland, May 11, by Ilcv.
Leonard I'. I'nrkcr.
Schultz. Karl S., nnd Mabel E.
Mcars. of Corning, Mny 21, by Ilcv.
l. A. Clagctt.
mLS0,n.,,J",SJ,h'. of Slhlmorc, and
F, lthJv,n,r Cottier of Mound City,
May 29, "
Wilson, llruro P.. and Joslo S.
ung, of Corning, May 31.
Odd Fellows' Decoration Day.
All members of Oregon Lodge, No.
C4, I. O. O. P., nro respectfully re
quested to assemblo at tho lodge room
hunday, Juno 11, at one o'clock, for
tho purpose of decorating tho graves
of tho deceased members In tho Ore
gon cemetery. All nro requested to
bring flowers.
Any visiting Brothers in this vicin
ity arc also requested to attend, and a
cordial Invitation is extended to the
public to attend the exercises at the
cemetery.
ig 1' '
BMMaMaaaatPlf4 m. h V I .mW 1 Jm
rfiuiun jxrviitiiirtTuTHi HHSBi- pkhhi wn.inM .ido iu;.wAiTr srra riivirTirW
j jTnUToViOiOMOTiv
NfUa SnanshotS A" "' V" "';",,', i!1'"'4, ''U1' '"." '" im" Nntlonni i"eiumu fij the viM'Ouiii iiiid LhiilniiAli lllhes lUiriomueil
oil)J9llui j,, ,ntl-i (l0 n,Hi-eeTi follow ci'iiiTiuiiii lo Wfiud out strongly In npwiltlnn to nny olileF Fni tlun, In seernt iiddrev I'ics.
Of th0 Week lcllt WII"0M "Utrccttil n Imslf ur'u)rlO eace stul linrmony. The cxtrminllimr.v Udinvlor of Dr. Willie Tn boldly flcUlpji jiow
v Jie inunlcriHl Ids tuitents In la coiitlulied even alter hU doom wn senleil. The I'lilled Stnlox told 1 1 ley tluit Its pMllenvv iS
txlmusteil and seizure of mnlTs Jiuit cense. The whole nurthwest mourned tbr lule Jniiie J. Mill, empire builder, when he win laid nt rest; UU son l.ouh will
take oer hl father's tut ruler', (lermnny iiihumM hiiinlrtiN of thousand fur nttiirk on Verdun, lull the liiklm; of Urcek forts by the HulcnrOics.lu tnado
It look n though Urecic would still le bnltlearuiiiid of Kun. Uo'cruor li W. Major of MNxiUitl mny U Pcnux nilk' iioiuliiev for vice president Mi-i.m
Till: l'()I.AM.( IMN. MAN.
i:imer IMil), (inmer of I'lilHtiiLChlna
nnd llnrred Ilex I,
I'millri.
I!lmit IMilt'. mm l tl.n lIA.l ..f CI.
imvs, nnd n genuine npoMle of sun
shine, wns In town recently, nnd gnvo
j- i, iii'iikiiuim visn, nnu no is m
mittm' nml tnllf ll.l n I
rf"" . i iimiiix,. piiiiui:
would rnjn n visit with lilm. Nnture
seems to have cndowol him with nn
iinuniinnce oi Hint trnlt of congenial
ity nnd companionship, n to make
you feel better nil over by having
spent nn hour with dim. lie told us
n few real stories, nnd snld he wn
out nf tuiHHi..
strictly In the Img nnd pmiltiy rnlslmr
iiiKiiii ri.. i .vi rj neg nnu cmcKen on
his plnce knows him, nnd he stnys. In
fact, lives with them, excepting when
ho goes Into his home nnd rats hl
mollis, nnd thus gets nciiunlnted with
.ii -. nni nun me junior r.uuys.
Ill, I. .,f ll.n ...... ..I ' L. ..'
... ... .... ... wmi..imiVm4 tiieeii-
crs of the pure btcd Poland-China
-i-. .nni in- iiviHi- iiiitv no peers
niifU-lmi-it In (I... .1.1. It-
........... r,ll,v. IIU IS uuiiiiir-
Ity In the diveliipment nnd hrcfdlni:
vk una twis, nnu ins worn is taKcn
as to n,un1lty nml points In this famous
hiTitl of porkers.
I IN anual sales, which he holds in
In the llunnlng. II. Notes. '
I'll In tf ht rnmlliinto for the stnte' The rln.Iilf exercises of the Oregon
and ronntv primaries. August I, flos- public school dosed the yc or lOlfi-lll
ed I'rldav nlnht Inst, June 2. The with the usual lain. Last year, each
Democratic, liepiihllrnn. Piogresslve, lentertnlnmetit was attended by a rain,
.Socialist, Prohibition mid Socialist-! which reduced the attendance mater
t.nhor nnrtles hnvp filed slnto tickets. Inllv. While there Was A Shower near
The Dcmociat have seven rnmlldntes ly every day of the w'eek, this year.
for governor! the Itcpubllrnn four , the evenings were fnlr enoi'gh to per
nnd the others one encli. Imlt n good nttemlnnre. The profit
Those filing for the vnrious county from this year's entertainment were
offices are a folows: I nearly enough to buy nil the Imoki'
Itepresrntallwi Frank Peti-ee, lie-1 needed for the coming year. As wn
publican, Lewis township; Charles I'-iaiv to have the Teacher-Tinlnlng
Nlnnn. lteiiublirnn. Heiitmi towtishlii! rinrse next vrar. n Inrire nildltlnn to
John II. Kunkel, Kepublirnn, Lewis the library must be made both for
township. igrouc worK timi men school work.
..(..Miri Alfred A. Mcver, He-1 The llbrnrv conimlltee has met with
publican, Uenton townslilp; James O. i"ch success In securing books. Theie
''oilers, lieptibltran. Union township; will he n meeting soon to rnnvnss the
Charles A. Owens, licpuhlirun. Purest re .lilts. Any one who has a book to
timnsiiili; inrnn I.. Kellfer. Ilepuli- K"n wn roiuer a invor on me com.
ncaii, nicKory lownsmp; A. u iinmi
ley. Democrat, Clay township.
Mirriut urn Morse, liepulillrnp.
Union tnunshln: llllev Tumov. Pi"
luiblican, Forest township; lien I'
mlltee by notifying the secretary.
M-s. .1. T. Thatrher. or J. (I. Knsoi.
Tlese biMiks me to be nrmtigcd and
rntnlogiiiHl this summer, so ns to ne
re'idy for the oneiilni; of school this
Crouser, Kepublirnn, Iwls township; ' fall. The dates for the committer
ittiiiert n. iii'iivvM. iimttiiiiii-nn iL.ttiiin i nil eiioif win lie iitinounrMi inier. ii
township; S. S. Meadows. Itepiibllrnn, 1 'he purpure of the committee to
' No Nomination Vet.
The I'rpublirnn Nntlonni Conven
tion is now in session nt ('hlcniro. nml
nt the hour nf our going to press, no
"o-'innuon nml men mmie. in rnrt.
tl Is not likely thnt any balloting will
'e had until today, Friday, pud per
han not until Patunlay.
No nut cclm-nt had lieen rencheil n
to candidates between the licpuhlicnn
atid I'rogiesslve lenders. A half duren
nnmes had lieen suggestnl to the I'm
grrlvi's. but none had been accep
table t them only one will be accep
ted by them, llooM'Vflt.
The mnnngers for. Justice Hughes
me confident he will lie iiomlnntcil on
mi early ballot, nnd It Is generally
-uncoiled thnt he will have prnrtlcnlly
Mio votes on the first bnllot.
Mr. l!iNiievelt hopes the Progres
sives will not mime their ramliihite
until nftcr the lic'uihtlrnns hnve nam
il their lender, but ninny of the h od
ers seem to think they 'should nomi
nate at mire, adjourn nnd ipilt, n
ganlless of what the Kepublicans mny
do.
Clay tounshlii: J. W. Hill, lienubll-
-an, Mlnton township; Fred P. Cook,
liemocrnt, l'wls township.
ProM-rutlnu Atlornett A. M. Tin.
Ms. Itenuhllrnn. Ilcnton tnwnshln.
Juuge vouni .ourt, I irsl Districts
. J. ti ass. Ilenuli can. I'orest town
ship: Curtis II. Whltmcr, Itcpubllctn,
Lewis lounsnip.
.surwjnrt John II. Peret, Ilepiibll
nn. Lewis townshln: llniuey It. Hod-
gin, ItcpuhMrnn, Clay township.
lotimy ireu-iireri Miiourn Lar
son. Itenuhllrnn. Lewis townsh n: I evl
Oren. Itepuhliran, Clny township.
riiiuic .iiiministriiiori ii. w. Linn
mlns, Itepubllrnu, Lewis townshlii.
Jll-llce of the IVaie. Lewis 'limn.
ship, I'nexplred Termi I'. S. Itostock.
Ileal IMate .Matter.
The May ilcallnus In real estate
were much stronger than they we.u
during the same month a yrur ago,
and our abstracters were kept quite
busy. A year ago. the warranty tran
slations totalled $r.(l, !.'.!, while for the
month just passed they reached
il8().ir..V While the trust deeds filed
during the month were f)H7JI!H), the re
leases for the. same period were
$84.24(1.
While the demand for money seems
reasonably heavy, the supply seems
to equal the demand, and all that is
needed is the collateral, anil whenever
this Is furnished, the cash seems to
be forthcoming.
me deals involving $r,000 or over
luring the month were:
h h. Allen and wire to Frank
J. Itobblns, se nw and cM
sw nw :i4. 02. 40 t noon
Florlnda Drowning to P. O,
.Mitchell, Lots 1, 2. II, 4, t,
6. 7. 8. lllock 22. Kxt. Co.'s
addition
Dennis liwcr, Jr., to Sarah J,
i nomas, 2 acres In nw Ul,
u'. an
Hy. Mortcnson to Ceo. W. and
Lath. Aictiauhey, w'i Frc. 0,
and accre.. C. !I7 'in.Tno
C. A. Owens to J. K. Ilnmsey
aim nuc, mis - ami u,l)U,;iM L'l.hlH)
M. A. 1'axton to (S. K. .Smith
sw nw ill. 02. :i8. ex. .in H Mm
J. V.. Itnmsoy to C. A, Owens,
h. juu acres, so i V, !:, ;tn. . u'.rilH)
Dennis Itcynolds to Win. I..
ttcynolils, n'.i u 1, slii and
e'i n'.i L. 2, 111, 00, :i8.... 0,000
5,000
10,000
They Are Happy.
On Saturday evening last. June !l.
1010, In tho presence of a few special
friends nnd parents. Kldcr II. II. Daw
son, at the homo of tho bride, said tho
words that mado Miss Mabel, daugh
ter of Mr. and Mrs. Oho Itush, and
Mr. I'.ucr bnerman, nusiianil nml wife.
These two most excellent voumr
pcoplo start life together with tho
sincere congratulations from a largo
circle of young friends, who will wish
them not only u long life, but one
whoso cup of happiness will ever bo
filled to tho very brim.
-We are triad to announco that
Horace Larkham. of near Maltland.
who has been confined to his home
with a severe spell of sickness, Is now
able to be up and around again.
hold open meetings nt the schowl
house, so that all Interested may lit
tend nnd belli the cause nlonir.
The prospect fur n good nttrmlnnrc
in the nigh school next fall is very
good. While the Senior rlnss ofMiillf-
17 Is not so Imge ns the one this yenr,
me inner classes are muni larger than
usunl. The following will be montier
of the rlnss of 1017: Hymn Murray.
Wlllard Kurt)!. Vein Maikt, llurniinl
Mitchell. Kthel Kieek. Anmi Miukt.
Fleanor Kunkel, Virginin Nctherlaml,
.iiinnun t'ntterson. i:ileu I'emiell,
Itowena Pierce. Pauline Ituley. Mary
Knenle. The class lost one member,
uurenro lilsslnger, who moveil to
Vales Center. Kmisns. this siiiIhl'.
The tenrhrrs for the coming )inr
are as loiious:
J.li. Fnsor, .Superintendent, Sclrnce.
Miss Cert rude Dennett, Principal,
Kngllsh.
.Miss '.lima llrngg, History and
Latin.
Miss Kdlth Marshall, Teacher
Training, The teacher for Mathematics and
(Icrinun has not yet been elected.
The teachers for tho grades ate:
Miss Anna Mcl-'arlaml, 7th and Mh.
Miss Kthel Durnctt, Cth.
Miss Nello Kennedy, Mh.
Miss Luu I'etree, 4th.
Miss Anna (iodby, of Itork Poit, :id.
Alls Kilith Codhy, of Hock Port. 2d.
Miss Alice llurgert, Primary.
Two additions of teachers have Uen
lidded this year, one in the grades nml
one in tho high school,
In Hie Long Ago.
Through the kindness of Mrs. Anna
K. Irvine, of this city, wo make tho
following extracts from a letter that
she recently received from her niece,
Mrs. Adah Price, formerly Miss Adah
Mc.Murray, of this city, who formeily
resided here with her parents, It. M.
Mc.Murray and wife, now over .'to
years ago, Ixith of whom arc now
dead. Mrs. Price Is and has been su
perintenibnt of schools of Delta rutin
ty. Colorado:
"Lust year when visiting a school
In tho upper country, I wus surpiird
and delighted to find thnt the trnchiv,
Mr. Drake, was tho son-in-law of Otic
Kreek, of Oregon, Mo.
"I attended the graduating cxcicli.es
of their eighth grade a few weeks ugo
and had a very pleasnnt visit with
Mr. nnd Mrs. Drake. Tho latter nnd I
find so muuy things to talk nbout as
we both lovo denr old Oregon.
"They nro doing excellent woik In
their profession, They took a tough
country school, with a bad reputation,
mid have built it up till it is one of
the best In tho county. Mrs. Dmkc
works right with her husband in try
ing to uplift tho neighboihood nnd
school. It is Just what one would ex
pect, though, fiom that family.
"(ilvo my lovo to Kate liuibour and
tho other girls If they are at home,
also to Aunt India and family nml
Mir. Itostock.
"With warmest love to you and
Undo Dug, ADAH."
Mrs. Scttlo Tapkcn, of St. Joseph,
was the guest of her son, Fred Phil
brick and family, for a day or two,
week before last.
I jigUml Mourn.
'The most seveie blow Inlllcted upon
I'liglnnd since the war began, came
on Monday, June ft, when It wus tin
noiinceil thnt Knrl Kitchener, Wnr
lird of Pnglnml. nml his entire olll
clal staff, were diowned off Oikney
Islands.
The director or the Drltlsh Armies
nml Ids staff were on their wny to
Ittissla, on an important mission, per
taining to wnr matters, and wen
nbnaiiT the riulser, llampshlie, mid
ulien .iirii.n nit...... i.i,...: .1.
....... ........ wan, i.j .-.'!-. ,111 , , Hith
er wns blown to ntoms, by what Is
neiieven in nave neen n mine, nml ns
yet no survivors have hem found to
tell the story of the gient loss.
Not only Kiigliinil, but the world nt
Imge, will mourn the lixs nf Kitch
ener. He held the faith of the Lug
llsh people and wns a great llguie in
Knglanil's war depaitments.
Obituary. V
Kdwnrd Alexander llnlser was Uun
December 0. I858. at Chllllcothe. Llv
litg'ton county, Missouri, nnd depnil
d this life June .'I. I'.HIi. In St. Joseph.
Mlssouil ngeil f7 years, ft months nml
25 days.
lie hnve n wife, three dnughteis
and three ginmlchitilren. The ilattgh
lei orei Mrs. ('. A. Hriilge, of Deth
nny. Mo. Mrs. John Onens, Hanover,
Kuusiis, nml Ml-s. Heitlm Nolnndl aNo
two biotliers. Mr. Peter Itainer. of
''in bes. .Mo., uml Mr. Jake lialser. nf
l oiest t ity. nml two sisters, Mr.
John Demaie. of St, Jn-.eph, .o anil
.Mis. Henry Cider, of Muund t'it.Mo.
The ihrennil was rouvrrliHl some
three weeks iign, mid lililltil with the
Mrthiiillrt cIiiiitIi.
The f ii twin 1 wus romhirteil flout
the Methodist church, In Forest City,
hy the pastor, nnd burial wns ninde
in the I hi est City cemeteiy.
II. M. W.
Had u Dig Time.
Pel haps the largest nttc mlanro at
I Mnm It- meeting for the eonfei ring
if the Master' degree thnt has been
ivltneanil In county Mn-i.tilr elides
for mnnv years. un on nt the old
Put est City I ,im life, Tiifi-ihiy evening
of this week. It is tnid fully 1 00 of
this ordei emne fieni the various
'iamis iff the rniinty, Hivk I'm t nnd
Msewheie to witness tlie rnlslng of
Cliniles mid Will Shnlffer fiom Pel
lowriaftship to thnt of roll Hedged
Alliums. It wns u ilcllghtrul, ns well
ti n profitable affair for Masons, nnd
the meetlm? ennui In fi rlii-i' lie n Imn.
ipiet served nl the City Half by the
mines oi ine r.nsiern Miir iiinnrii or
the in dor.
llresk in l.ctee Wall.
The rednforred concrete wnll In the
east bank of the Hlg Tnikio Drainage
ditch, where It crosses the Henry
Nnbor slough, gave way, Thursday of
last week, owing to the high stage of
water, ulded by high winds. The inins
had Intcrfcrietl with the completion
of this wnll. lie .,.lHriiri.I,w. If n.ltl.
i . " ' n , ii.,,,
liuttresses.
The water Is now down below the
berm of the ditch, and no water is
nnu rnntm1 nut nf tlm ln-nnl ... 1.1.1. I.
about ninety feet In length.
The Hoard of Supervisors of the
district nre taking action for the Im
mediate rebuilding of the broken por
tion. AH U'f.11 III ktnirtli..nl...a l.l
' rii.ih,.iiii,iK ,,
purt not damaged.
Left a Will.
Tim Will nt III. Inln 0....n T
I II . UMV- U I l,ll,U,
who died at Kansas City, April 2.1,
into, wns men mr proiiatc last week
with Judge II. M, Dungan, of our pim-
linln P.i.irl 'I'l,.. ...Ill ....... ... ... ...I
.' ..Hi.. .iv .in, imn Aeviiieii
Juno 20, 1010, and witnessed by WIN
iiiuii ,-iriiuue ami Liinrus J, Knock.
It makes his widow, Mrs. Ora Hunt,
the executor or the estate.
After making a few small hcijiicsiH
to his four children, ho leaves the res-
hllln nt lit wtnt.1 C.n. ltd I.t ...!.!....
V. . u ,if mr. ii, nun.
tin lllll l on III llwi -clnli. ....... nl..t.... I..
........ , ,,,, , , ,viiiuiiiiiik in.
i ii I ni-uiiy to uis surviving
V lllllll I'll.
Heglns Work,
l.iurilicer Ituv Leslie mine U'lilnej.
I:ij of this week, nnd set the stnkes
for the guidance of the contiactur fur
palng Wnshliigton stieet in inn
eadatii. frnm the depot to Nodawnv
street, by the Ithlnehnrt Paving Com
pany, of St, Joseph, Ah soon ns the
engineer finishes, the wink of paving
this street will begin nt once.
fib '
l' P. IMil).
Weihlings.
Married, at the reidde.iro nf llm
Inlde's tiarents, Juno 1, 1U10, Miss
Kditll KltiL' Cottier, ilaucrhter nf!
James cottier nnd wire, and Mr. Jo
seph Tynn, son of Mr. nml Sirs. Isaac
Tyson, the ceremony being performed
iiy uev. ti. ii. ncnvner, pasior o the
Christian chinch, Mound City.
.miss upai, iinii(iiter or W, II.
Cnnmm and wife, residing seven mllc-i
north tff Mound City, and Mr. Hiram
Ingram, of Clearmont, Mo., wero unit
ed In marriage, In St. Joseph, Satur
day, June II, hy l!ev. Cnrruthcrs, pas
tor of the Ashland M. K, church, or
that city. Tho Sentinel joins wltn
their many friends In congratulations.
The Cull) Sunday school has
changed its time of meeting from in
mo aiiernoon to m o'clock: in the
morning.
Mrs. K. M. Mny, residing south
iff Nupicr, met with a seveie accident
In uttvmpting to get on the Villlscn
train, at Forest City, Satiiiday eve
ning or lust week, June !l. She was
trying to get on tho train, so we me
Informed, when she slipped and Tell
between the train uml platform, nnd
was dragged iiilte a little distance, In
lining one or her limbs and bruising
her body. She was unconscious fur
several hours, hut Is now reported an
getting along all right.
During the session of our County
Court, this week, many of those who
iiurchuscil tho accreted land south of
Fortcscue, nt tho May term or the
court, were present and made settle
ment for these, and received patents
from the county. Among these wero
Uncle John C. Ilinkle, who paid $l,2t.l
for some 700 acres, which he has own
ed for ftO years, ami for which ho had
pnui mr years ago. a species or what
may simply be culled confiscation un
der the color or the law.
Mrs. Fannie Dungan, nccompu
nlcd by her children, Mr. Charles and
Stella Zuclmiun, drove to St. Joseph,
Sundnv, In her automobile. Mr. and
Mrs. Xarhmun returned tho samo eve
ning by trnln. Mrs. Dungan remained
In St. Joseph, mid tho following day,
Monday, sho was Joined by Mr. and
Mrs. C. D. ZookiUiid tluy went lo Kan
sas City, on the trnln. Mrs. Dungnn
returned Tuesday, but the Zooks re
mained fur n few days' visit witli their
children, Dr. .Sherman D. Ilihbaul and
wire.
Don M. Mnrtln, our efficient and
accommodating nssistant postmustcr,
Is always striving to plcnso tho pa
trons of the post olllce. Last week,
one or our buslncs men went Into tho
olllce, and told Don he would like to
have u box. Don promptly answered,
"Wo only hnvo one." Tho business
man answered, "Well, let mo have
that," bo off Don trotted, returning
with a small paste board box, which
ho tendered tho man, who replied, "I
don't want that kind of a box, I want
one of your mail boxes to put my mail
in when it comes." Don got busy and
fixed him up at once, but, of course,
ho says he misunderstood tho gentle
'lis monster tent, nie regarded as
neat evtuts in the hog calendar, nml
to iimn Is more conscientious in his
isH'ttlnns about Ids stock than Mr.
IMdy.
.Mr. l.dilv s niso mi hor tv In the
luniltry Hue, as u producer of the pure
trnln or imrinl Hocks, ami he claims
to have the very best In this Hue in
this pnit of ll Show Me" state. As
io knows tne rninml-i hlnns, so Hues
le know the Hailed Hocks,
On invitation of the officer of the
Mnlllnnd Fnlr Association, Mr. IMdy
mil hnve rhurge or the poultiy dm
iou nt the Maltland Fnlr this ear,
ivlilch Is splendid lecognlllon of Mr.
Kild ns n poultiy iitnn.
Mr. KdvV home is In l.ihrttv town
ship, nml he says two great events
occulted on Apiil 12, 1801 the
Aire tne iinng on i-ort Mimpicr ami
the liltlli of p. liner I Mil v. e emtio to
hustle for himseir by doing rami woik
fni' John Judy in tlie Lonesome dis
trict, mid with the execution iff cros-
renre line, on tlie (irilllth 210 ncrer,
he never left that immediate place.
Vis, he' mnirleil, mid has a fine
wife mid ii good bunch iff children,
ills wife wis Mnrv, daughter of Stcvo
! ntiMloun, cue iff the early settler-i
iff Henton township. Kliner and Mary
uent up to the home of Itev. Malotte.
nn New Year's Day, I8'.it, and having
llie nrcessaiy credentials with them,
'the pioachci-'nmn" declared them to
be hill-hand and wife, and after tho
nrriirhei hnd given them a kindly,
ruthcrly talk, they started in llfo to
ge'her, sharing with euch other tho
storms nn I sunshine. They have six
living children, and these are: Mr,'.
Luther Nauman, of Oxlcy, Mo.; Mrs.
Hay Steele, or Fairfax, Mo.j Prank, of
Kansas City, and Fred, Corn nnd
(lince, who are at homo doing their
parts, and seeing thnt pupa does his,
especially In keeping up Ills reputa
tion as a breeder or Poland-Chinas
and llnrred Hocks, nnd his grandchil
dren are happy when with him.
Little Miss Virginia Cnskey, or
St. Joseph, Is tho guest or her ginr.d-
purents, ti, ll, t'rice ami wne.
P. O. Phillips, our druggist, has
installed a linnclMiinc sort drink roun
tnln. It is in whlto maihlc and ma
hogany. Mrs. W. W. Dawson, accompanied
by Mnster W, W Jr., nro In Uunsaa
City, visiting relatives and attending
tho Hilly Sunday meetings.
John S. Doyil, whose homo Is In
this city, but who is working for tho
Snnta Fo Il'y., in Atizonhi, in thu
bridge construction department, has
our thuriks for several post cards of
tho Petrified Forest of Arizonin. They
nre beautiful, nnd the Petrified Forest
is rcitnlnly a wonder.
Kverbody, including Tho Sentinel,
nre delighted to know that Mrs. J. C.
Whltmer has parted company with
tlie hospital attaches, at bt, Joseph,
having bo far recovered from her re
cent serious illness as to be able to go
to 'Savannah, where she will remain
for n whlto, in the care of her parents,
Mr. 'and Mrs. Prodsham. She has
made a great fight, and seemingly hai
won, May she soon regain her form
er splendid' health.
