THE BAKRE AILY TIME
1
VOL'. XX NO. 73.
BARRE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
HUGHES' NAME
IS PRESENTED
TO CONVENION
AMERICANS BARRED
FROM MEXICO ON
U. S. BORDER
Republicans, After Hearing
- Report of Conference with
Progressives Last Night,
Went Ahead with Regular
Routine of Making Nomination
PROGRESSIVES WERE
INSISTENT FOR T. R.
WHAT REPUBLICAN
PLATFORM DEMANDS
A Rumor Reached Chicago
That Col. Roosevelt Would
Withdraw His Name from
Progressive Convention,
and Radicals Said They
Would Nominate Him
Anyway
Chicago, June 9. The delegates to the
Republican and the Progressive national
conventions reassembled at the Coliseum
and the Auditorium to-day facing a sit
uation unprecedented in recent American
political party history. The Progressives
' met at 10 o'clock and the Republicans re
sumed their deliberations at 11 (central
time). .
The day was ushered in by a midnight
conference, that will become historic, of
the peace committee from. the two con
ventions, authorized yesterday afternoon.
When the conference adjourned after a
two-hour session it was announced that
progress had been made and a statement
was made that the conference would not
get together again until after to-day's
convention sessions.
The men who are advocating the nom
ination of Hughes asserted this morning
that nothing had occurred to weaken
their position and they believed Hughes
could be nominated by the Republican, j
Chairman Harding Of the Republican
convention said that he would follow the
regular precedent and that balloting
probably would be reached by 4 o clock
this afternoon.
The Republican delegates were prompt
in assembling and it waa only la minutes
after the appointed time when Chairman
Harding rapped for order. Hishop w n
liarn McDowell made the opening prayer,
The report of the conference commit
tee which conferred with the Progres
hives was presented by Senator Smoot
': and was as follows:
Your committee appointed pursu
ant to resolutions adopted at yester
day's session met in conference with
the committee representing the na
tional Progressive, convention last
evening. The conference was frank,
free and most friendly. The con
ferees were of one mind in believing
that the good of the country and
perhaps its repute and influence in
years to come depends upon the com
plete defeat of the present Demo
cratic administration and the res
toration of the control of the execu
tive and legislative branches of the
government to the hands of those
who firmly believe in and will exe
cute the policies that are so heartily
supported by the Republican and
Progressive parties alike. The Pro
gressive conferees were unanimous
in urging with temperateness and
fairness the opinion that Theodore
Roosevelt of Xew York had so large
a personal following and such close
personal relation to the issues of the
coming campaign as to make him the
most desirable candidate upon which
to unite. It waa agreed that your
conferees would report this fact to
this convention.
The conference report wa received
with enthusiasm. At the mention of
Roosevelt's name there was moderate
applause, rising in volume but chiefly
participated in by the galleries. It last
ed three minutes.
Chairman Harding announced that the
conference committee would be contin
ued, and then Governor Whitman of New
York took, the platform to nominate
.Justice Hughes.
During Whitman's speech he men
tioned the iwmc of Taft and there was
an immediate outburst of applause last
ing fix minutes.
Vermonters Got Excited.
A Whitman eoncluled by mentioning
Hughes' name there was a demonstration
in which apparently half the delegates
joined. The demonstration lasted 20
minutes. During fhe tumult the Ver
mont delegates joined in a procession
around the hall shouting: "We want
Hushes" and "We want Charlie."
At the end of the demonstration Elihu
Foot of New York was placed in nomina
tion bv Dr. Nicholas Murray Putler.
The ' Republican platform, a
adopted by the committee, declares
for:
Protection of American right at
home and abroad.
"Preservation of the dignity and
influence of the United States in
foreign relations.
Restoration of order and main
tenance of peace in Mexico.
Maintenance of the Monroe doctrine.
Closer commercial, financial and "
social relations with Latin-America.
Continuance of MeKinley's pol
icy in the Philippines.,
"A suflicient and efficient regular
army," with "ample reserves," and
a "navy so strong . that no
enemy can : effect a land
ing." A tariff "sufficient to protect
adequately American industry, and
labor," with special attention to
securing "the industrial independ
ence of the United States" and a
tariff commission "with power to .
gather information for the
use of Congress."
Prosecution, not persecution, of
violators of business laws.
' An effective system of rural
credit.
Extension of rural free delivery.
Subsidies to build up American
merchant marine.
Federal control for entire trans
portation system of country.
A national budget system.
Conservation of natural re
sources. .
Reorganization of the civil serv
ice in the interests of efficiency
and economy.
Territorial officials to be bona
fide residents.
Vocational education, a federal
child kibor law, a workmen's com
pensation law and an accident
compensation law for government
employes.
Extension of suffrage to women
at the discretion of the individual
states.
Customs Inspector On Boundary Got Tel
egraphic Orders from Washington to
Prevent Americans from
Crossing Line.
El Paso, Tex., ' June 0. Customs in
spectors at the international bridge re
ceived instructions early to-day to per-
ran, no Americans w enter Mexico from j
here until further notice. No reason was
given for the order, which came by tele
graph from Washington.
WHOLE LINE
BELCHES FIRE
Germans Launch a General
Attack on Right Bank
of the Meuse
PENETRATE LINES AT
THIAUMONT FARM
GYPSY WOMAN WANTED MATCH.
Bethel Man Accommodated Her a Elsewhere, the French Say,
twu., t.. the Attacks Were
mkiici, u uiie s a mrgo Dna oi gjpw
which had camped in the Locust creek ItepUlSea
neighborhood the previous night, tra
versed tihe main street of the village
I VHftterHa V fnt-pnfwm anil hari raLnn loavt
without any unhappy incident, when the Pari"' June 9 The Germans have
last team halted in the parade through launched a general attack along the en
Pleasant street and a young woman got tire front on the right bank of the Meuse
out and stepping up to S. F. Lyman at ,nd have penetrated thf Fronoh lines at
hia new residence asked him for a match. . ,r . , , ,
As he went in to get a match she fol- uuo P'"B DU6 wero P" wsewnere
lowed him and before the cavalcade was with heavy losses, according to to-day's
out of sight Mr. Lyman missed his purse, official statement. Th point where the
containing twenty dollars, which had German entered the Vrench lines was
the woman had h,e lon n inatmt. in the neighborhood of Thiaumont farm.
Mr. Lyman at once found Justice ofM"e Germans also made two small at
the Peace C. O. Spaulding who issued a (tacks southwest of Hill 304, but these
.jane uoe warrant tor tne woman's arrest .(tucks wer nuluit- m,.
I . I : 1. "' .. i 1. 1 . T" L' 11. . A I I '
aim mui hub uiinittuitf J. o. i utuauii .
learried hv Afr T.vninn in hia flutomoliilA. I -
overtook the procession which was hur
rying toward Randolph and not far from QI.TVITT V. TTROMT
that vilWe. In the front waron of P"
all, instead of the rear wagon, they - OF AUSTIANS
I unum uie joung woman wanieu hiiui nDAWXT
when Constable Putnam read the war- 15? JLlvUh.li(JN
rant the men of the party gathered
around and, without admitting any theft Russian Embassy in Some Gets Word
i.. . . ... i -
ion tne woman s part, the leader of the
band handed over $30 which Mr. Lyman
thought would make him whole on the
transaction. The missing money and
I purse were not seen and in case of an
arrest the state could probably have
j produced no conclusive evidence against
the accused; but there seemed to be no
doubt of her guilt.
GOV GATES SPOKE.
Just Before Close of Vermont Woman's
Club Convention.
White River Junction, June 9.-
nor Charles W. Gates of Vermont gave I affected. The Austrian, finding them
an aaaress last evening in uates- opera selves stacked from boih the east and
that Russian Advance Has Penetrated
Austrian Defence to Depth
of 37ia Miles.
London. June 0. -Information ha
reached the Russian embassy in Rome
that the Austrian front has been com
pletely broken along & length of D4 miles
and to a depth of 37W miles, according
to a Central News dispatch from Rome.
The Russian advance, according to
these advices, now threatens to cnveloj
the entire Austrian array in the region
t U . . . 1. : .. . 1 . . 1
the Vermont Federation of -..". we ieiwd with panic dur
convention as unfinished business and Clubs which ha been in convention here inff tbe attacks by the Russians
was read section by section. for the past three da vs. Ira Harris of and surrendered without real resistance.
the opening prayer waa onerea dj Nashua pave an illustrated lecture A Renter no.n.foh from t...
Pokki .Tnunli S:til of ('i',fatrn an A thm I 1 IT- u :.. i tf nl fo
..um. uvv..... v. ... v. ....vu - i .iiiuitu wig mi ill ill r.iimi,y .hiiiuicb. J A,
convention took up for a time the con- which was very entertaining. u "lmr" ' Kussian
The morning was taken up withv lis- vomyn m l.aacia. ine
tening to the reports of the various com-1 capture of an additional 185 officers and
mittees as follow: department of home 13.700 men is announced
sidoration of the platform m unfinished
business. -
A few minutes before the convention
was called to order Roosevelt s secretary, economic Mrs. John P.. Chase. Lvndon
John W. MeGrath, and William Loeb, jr., ville; department of literature and li
his former White House secretary, ap- brary extension Mrs. Gilbert Davis,
peared on the platform and had a whis- Windsor; department of music Mrs. C.
pered conference with the leaders and p. Dalton, Burlington; Department of
then returned. When interviewed, Loeb public health Mrs. George H. Cross, St,
said: "We hope to keep the convention Johmrtniry: legislation Mrs. Watson L,
Liu .ujiiuun ivuimu. j.d Bsson, vaieronrv; cnairman oi re
dined to interpret the word "foolish." ciprocity, Mrs. Henry W. Dutton, Ran
MeGrath and Loeb took up positions in dolph.
an anteroom, connected by telephone Addresses were made by Miss Bertha
with Oyster Bay and frequently came m. Terrill of Vermont university and
back to the platform, and the leaders Ufiss "Cat of Lebanon spoke on
Dusiiea wiin activity.
A few minutes after
GEN. JOFFRE MEETS
BRITISH IN LONDON
the convention
opened the conference committee made
its report as follows:
Your committee, appointed pursu
ant to resolutions adopted yesterday,
met in conference with a committee
representing the Republican national
convention last evening. The con
ference was most friendly. Imme
diately upon assembling your com
mittee proposed as a joint nominee
of both conventions Theodore Roose
velt. The, committee representing
the Republican conventions did not
present the name of any candidate,
nor did it attempt to refute our ar
guments relating to the unique
availability of Roosevelt as a can
didate to unite both parties or to
serve our common country at this .
crucial period in the history of the
world. After several hours' friendly
discussion, during which no concrete
proposition was advanced by the Re
publican conferees, except that a
further conference might be desirable
this afternoon or evening, the com
mittee adjourned. .
Following the arrival of MeGrath and
Loeb a report was circulated, to which
French Commander-in-Chief Attended
Important Conference at British
Foreign Office.
London. June 0. General .Tnffre. tl
rrcncli commander-in-chief, is in Ivmrinn
Ideas and Ideals in Kducation." Mrs. Jay and he attended an important conference
u. Lnaerwooa oi nairiana spoKe on we u the foreign office to-day with Paul
Hartland Nature club. Cambon. the French ambassador Kir F,l.
The afternoon was taken up with im- k-ard Grey, foreign secretary, aud the
AMERICANS MUST PAY.
I - . . i : ,. i -1 - ... : -1 a: I . -
puitaiii. uiismt-Bs aim riei-uun ui uim-ei i members oi the war
Mrs. Robert E. Smith of White River
Junction was elected president; Mrs.
Bingham Stone of Burlington, first vice
president. The other officers were all re
elected.
The special event of the afternoon was
a tea, served by the ladies of the Loyal
club of White River Junction in the li
brary and attended by several hundred.
council,
SCHOOL HEAD RESIGNS.
Domiciled in Britain, are Held to Be
Subject to Tax. .
London, June 0. Americans domiciled
here, who are subject to an income tax.
must sell or deposit with the British
government their American securities un
der penalty of an ejstra two shillings tax.
J his information was given to the As
suciated Press to-day by an official of
the American dollar securities commit
tee. The ruling holds whether the se
curities are held here or in America.
Rev. George B. Lawsnn to Leave Vermont
Academy.
Saxtons River, June 0. When Rev. Dr.
I George B. lawson announced to the
student body of Vermont academy yes
terday that his resignation would go into
exercise next Tuesday evening he caused In 0n Week's Battles One: Regiment
a siirprise not only to the bovs of the Shot to Pieces Three Times.
.1 1 i..a. A il.. i l
", w.c eaucauona! system oi otUwili ,,unp o.M..re than GMifl Can
lliB mtlf, , . ..ii
i ne academy is
600 CANADIAN CASUALTIES.
institution for Vermont and Dr. Lawson
H'unL' it M
Baptist educational d.Rnpri.t, rilrfltinl. in am. around vnc-
a. 11- 1 .- a . a. A -
the nartv ,, ,v. ra,U- w h.. 1, i.l f..n f ,ona l,mrJ " 'K w .vtrmrnu
r.;j.v.v if:j r.i.;;.i :r.:. ": r ,sr::i:: vj:,:" : 'y Mj.-Ge... s.r sum Hughes. ml.
Roosevelt intended to withdraw his name.
There seemed to be no competent au-
hority for the prediction and the radi
cals said they would name Teddy any
way.
Following the reading of the commit
For at loast three vears there have been
persistent rumors that the principal was
about to resign. It is known that cer
tain Baptists have been dii-satii-ned with
the retirinir principal's work and last
week a iifeetincr was held in Rutland at
tees report on the conference considers- which matters concerning the school were
ion ot the platform was resumed. The discussed. Those who attended fhe meet
"iurii urn-)iir im Kiurnus inMriK- ini were niemoers oi me lispnsi siaie ,l.j. .. ih; i,.
nir from the nlatform the word "m.li." .nv.nin .n.l nm. f ,i,.mhr nf r" . n . " . . . . I"-"-
" . . tvl - I Knm i at-i . nt lh lir.litiii.r Minn
the declaration "every male citizen the board of trustees of the academy. aJ- L. ,. . .. , . i u..".
harged with the duty of defending his though, according to William C. Smith of f" '"J. "t
country, iand the word "his" also was Brattleboro, clerk of the board of trua- . . . . , f Pr;Br.M
changed to -our" country. tees of the school, they were not there J I1'."' ' 1 ri . ' . . 1 u. . k: .
- .11 Jil.I II'IHH Iiail I II lll.-l. 1 lilt II IIIIII-
self. WVmnded on hrtday. he was taken
ister of militia, in presenting colors to
a regiment on Parliament hill yesterday.
"The great majority, wounded, he
said, "already are clamoring to get back
into the fray, but many of the gallant
lads have gOe down never to rise again.
We deeply mourn their loss, but that
loss affords an inspiration for tens of
WAS MANUFACTURER
AND QUARRY OWNER
Oney M. Canton of Canton Bros, and
Barre Granite & Quarry Co. Passed
Away Last Evening After
Three Months' Illness.
Oney M. Canton, a member of Canton
tiros., granite manufacturers, and presi
dent and director of the Barre Granite &,
Quarry Co., died at his home, Uo Maple
avenue, last evening at 7 o'clock, the end
following an Illness of nearly three
months.
Mr. Canton is survived by his wife,
who was Miss Catherine Riclwrdson, to
whom he was married in Barre May. I,
18P4, and two children, Miss Ixiuise Can
ton, of the Burditt Business college,
Lynn, Mass., and Miss Florence Canton,
a student in Spauldinghlgh school. He also
two sisters, Mr. M. Roharge and fllrs.
Xavier Gosselin of fb. JTin ' Chrys
os tome; and six brothers, Fred Canton,
with whom he was associated in the
granite manufacturing business, Philias
and James Canton of Barre, Arcaduce
Canton of St. Jean Chrjsostome, D. Can
ton of Florence. Ma., and Nazaire Can
ton of Montreal, P. Q.
The deceased was born in St. Jean
Chrysostome, P. Q., Kept. B, 1870, the
place of his nativity being a small town
about six miles from the city of Quebec
As a young man he went to Redstone,
V. II., and worked f.r the Maine A New
Hampshire Granite Co. three years as a
quarryman. trom there he came to
isarre and served his apprenticeship a a
granite cutter with McDonald & Kidder,
with whom he remained for four years, j
three years learning his trade and one
year at the banker. In 1895 he became
asociated with his brother in the manu
faeturing business, buying out the firm
of Park & Dunbar, who were located in
Burnliam s meadow. Five years later
the firm moved to the McMillan fc Steph
en shed on Blackwell street, where they
remained two years, and in 1002 they
built their present modern plant on
Smith Btreet. In 1808 the firm purchased
the Hamilton Webster quarry in.Web-
sterville and operated it themselves until
1905, when the Barre Granite & Quarry
Co. was organised.
Mr. Canton was actively interested in
the welfare of Barre and whenever he
waa affiliated with an organization he
gave his untiring support. He was a
member of the Granite Manufacturers'
association and the Quarry Owners' as
sociation and also belonged to Granite
City camp. M. W. of A., and Barre coun
cil, No. 401, K. of C, as well as St. Mon
ica's church.
Tha funeral will be held in St. Monica's
church Monday morning at 9 o'clock. The
parish priest. Rev. P. M. McKenna. will
officiate and interment will be made in
the Catholic cemetery on Beckley street.
,,,,.-:. ...... ...A,ft?---lVi.. . I'"'!
' y '-til fr 4
i i i
If .('
LORAINE H. C. LO RANGER
(Third Honor Graduate at Spauldins)
ALUMNI IN BANQUET.
MANY PRIZES OFFERED
The plank on woman's suffrage also as trustees of the school, but as members
was amended so as to declare for the full lof ih tiii mnwntion.
right of uffraee by both federal and
state action. The committee had used
the. word either.
NOMINATE TEDDY
BEFORE ITS TOO LATE
Was Yell of Massachusetts Progressive
Delegation As It Marched Into the
Convention Hall Convention
Takes Up Platform Sec
tion by Section.
Auditorium Hall, CTiieago, June 9 The
Pr creive convention waa called to or
der at 10:6. A few minutes before the
MKihult delr-fstion had marched is
jefiinff: ""We'd btter nominate Roose
:t tiefor it's too late."
The pisiform was f laced before th
Borah Suddenly Appears.
Without any preliminary announce
ment Senator Borah entered the hall and
was escorted to the platform and given
a tremendous ovation. The senator, on
being introduced. aid: ! did not come
officially, but I will ay frankly I came
here to get an inspiration." Wlien Borah
announced Roosevelt's name .hnut of
-We want Teddy," resounded throinh
the hall with more vim than at any time
since the convention assembled.
Coming as it does so soon after the
meeting in Rutland, it is thought that
the meeting bad something to do with
Principal Lawson s resignation.
ROOSEVELT APPEARS HAPPY.
Reiterates He Does Rot Intend to Go
to Chicago.
Oyster Bay. X. Y.. June 9. Ron, ve It.
awaiting developments at Chioigo. re
iterated today that he had no present
intention of gmng there. He appeared to
in bih piri;.
GERARD REPUDIATES IT.
The Alleged Interview on President Wil
son's Peace Efforts.
Berlin, by wireless. June 9 The Amer
ican amrm.fsdor, James V. Gerard, has
repudiated the interview recently attrib
uted to him on the mibjwt of President
W ilson's poace efforts, says the Overseas j
agency. 1 he amhassanor is also q' Kited
as aserting that Count Freidrich Von
Weotarp. the conservative leader in t.ha
ReiohMag. desired Gerard to hare the
purioiis interview published some time
ag but that the ambassador declined.
According to the news agency, a man
uscript rnu.inirtc a copy of the spurious
interview waa submitted to Gerard with
the idea that it s t have h- pub
lished in the Xattonsl Zeitung but that
tft aiBraissad'ir refuxI to m net ion it.
For Trap Shooting Tournament at Mont
pelier Next Week.
The eighth annual tournament of the
Vermont Trap bhooting association will
be held in Montpelier under the auspices
of the Montpelier Gun club June 13 and
14, programs for the event having been
iwsued by G. E. Megrath, president, and
Dr. C. H. Burr, secretary of the local
club.
j here will be $3.0 in added money
and prizes, with a program of soo tar
gets each dav, JO events of 20 targets
each. The shoot will commence at 10
o'clock Tuesday forenoon and lunch will
be served on the grounds each day. The
Interstate assoriation a state amateur
championship event will be open to any
bona fide resident of the (state with sev
en prizes to seven high guns. Mayor
James M. Boutwell of Montpelier offers
beautiful silver pitcher which will be
handicap prize open to all amateurs
and shot for the first dav.
The Montpelier Board of Trade has do
nated a sterling silver trophy valued at
$30 open to all amateurs who have shot
the first day. Other prizes will be the
DuPont high average trophy, silver cup
to be given the amateur, member of the
association, making the highest average
for the entire program, who will hold the
prize for a, year, surrendering it at the
next tournament. The member who wins
it the greatest number of times in three
state tournaments becomes the final
owner. Montpelier titin club will award
a troply? to the lady making the highest
score jti events of the first dav. The
nterstMto association offers three prizes
to the highest average scores. Another
event will he the tem championship of
Vermont, with prizes offered bv the lo
cal club.
The following clubs belong to the state
association : Burlington Trap Shooters
club, Dewey's Mills Gun club, Hardwick
Rod A, Gun club. Montpelier Gun club,
Randolph Gun club. St. Albans-Swwnton
Gun club. South Rovalton Gun club,
pringfield Rod fc (inn club. The officers
of the association: G. B. Walton, Mont
pelier, president; W. S. Crane. Randolph,
ice-prwident: H. B. Moulton. Montpel
ier, secretary-treasurer; K. t. (.reen-
ood, Enoburg Falls, Dr. H. M. Loudon,
Burlington, F. O. Copcland, Randolph,
executive committee.
In addition to the amateurs, members
of the state association, it is expected
th;t the professionals of the . country,
representing ome of the arnv compan
ies, will be largely represented.
160 People Attended Affair at Hotel Barre
Last Evening.
Spaulding high school alumni to the
number of 160 gathered at Hotel Barre
last evening for the l'.lth annual banquet
of the graduate association. It waa the
largest assembly of alumni since the or
ganization was formed, and if the senti
ment expressed after the banquet may
be taken st Wts face value, it was the
most successful in the history of the as
sociation. The dining room was taxed
to capacity, but tlie service waa beyond
criticism and the cuisine came in for
manv complimentary remarks. The ban
quet was served at 8 o'clock and more
than an hour elapsed before the exercises
began.
Miss Eva G. Smith, a member of the
association and at present a teacher at
Spaulding, presided capably while the ex
ercises were in progress. Miss Stella
Brooks extended the welcome to the 1916
class and the response was made by Cyril
C. Marrion, both speakers being warmly
received by the banqueters. Charles L.
Brown of the high school factory, upon
whom has devolved the duty of coaching
the. football, basketball and baseball
teams at Spaulding during the year now
closing, spoke encouragingly on the pros
pects for athletics. He gave some timely
hints as to the part which the alumni
association can play in supporting the
teams that represent Spaulding.
One of the pleasant features of the
program came when Prin. H. H. Jackson
announced that the alumni prize for Eng
lish had been awarded to Richard Cruick-
shank, a member of the junior class. The
prize was awarded for the best short
story submitted during the year. Mr.
Cruickshank won one of the prizes at
the prize speaking" competition Tuesday
evening.
For the teacher training clas at
Spaulding, Miss Teresa Bianchi, one of
the graduates, spoke in an interesting
way. Miss Dorothy Inglis spoke for the
commercial school graduates and remarks
were made later by Dr. Joe W. Jackson
of the school commission. Sunt. C. H.
White and Principal Jackson. Girls of
the senior class enlivened the program
with a chorus number and Miss Gladys
Gale contributed an enjoyable piano solo.
At a brief business meeting after the
program, account was taken of the finan
cial standing of the association and then
the following officers were elected for
1916-1017: President. Miss Estella M.
Brooks; vice-president, Mrs. Edwin
Keat; secretary, Mihs Eva A. BisWce;
treasurer, .Mrs. P. M. Carr.
FINE FEATURES
AT CLASS DAY
The Spaulding Seniors En
tertained a Big Crowd
of Friends Splendidly
THIRD HONOR PART,
MISS LORANGER'S
GRADUATION IN BETHEL.
Exercises Were Followed by Banquet of
Alumni Association.
SUES TOWN FOR $10,000.
back and treated at a dressing station.
He went to the front trenches on Sat
urday, was sc in wounded, taken baek
and dressed, was at the front again Sun
day and was sent back for further treatment.
Chaplain Wilkes, according to the mes
sage, carried a nne into ine ngnt. tie
used it as long a he could and then
wielded a bavonet until the encounter
came too cl' for either, when he went
k; fiat
rv,i l i)..ll.r ...,mn.ler of h Prin. "P the rwki in the bed of the Mrmi
.. i;ii ii. u.a i fhteen feet below. He slVgvs that he
a member of the Duke of ConnaogM's t"ff'r brnk"' '"P- jr' '' ..f
Canadmn ho..hold like the man w ho j htsriarht foot permane nth d,vH,ed
prided him. t hmel F.rquhar. Colonel nd he was ..tbrrw.se brulred and rut.
Jimes R. Johnston Claims Northfield
Was Negligent in Care of Bridge.
The town of Northfield is made the de
fendant in a $lu.(M damage suit brought
by .lames P. Johueton of that town, tiie
suit being entered to-day in county
court for trial at the Septemlwr term.
The plaintiff avers that be mas seriouwly
injured September .". IP1.. bevause of
the neclfence of the town in failing to
keep a bridg' on a pnhlu- biehay in! , , r,.,K
good repair. The plaintiff avers that he josepn rr...
was riding on a to h re tcAiu when Kcspitai in curungion, june o.
the bridge gave way, precipitating hi in
Bethel, June (. The graduating exer
cises of Whitcomb high school were held
last evening at the town hall. On the
platform with the seniors were the mem
bers of the prudential committee. John
I. Wilson, A. N. Washburn and Mrs. C.
I), dishing; the high school teachers,
Prin. H. W. Haskins, Miss Marv Tewks-
bury, Mildred .Masse ami Agnes leary;
Kev. .1. Wesley Miller who offered pray
er, and I rof. .Marshall I., l errin of Isos
ton university, whose address on "Per
sonality as an Asset in Life" wag at
once popular ami thoughtful and was re
ceived with enthusiasm. Music through
out the evening was furnished by Gil-
sons orchestra and there were two piet-
y songs by a group of girl undergrad
uate.
The graduation themes were. "Do the
Rlesini; of Science Outweigh Its Hor
rors!" by Everett A. Snelling; "Success
in Life," by Marion K. Adams, and "Alas
ka, the New La nil." by Max D. Biis.
The diplomas were presented by Mr.
W ilson for the lar.l. The decorations
were in green ami white, the class col
ors, the clas motto. "After the Combat
the Crown," being conspicuous.
The banquet of the Whitcomb High
SclnMil association was held at the Has-
rw'in house after the graduation. 1-snd
lord Emery was hijrhiy praised for tiiej
. ,' . l t :. i i I it'
menu, oilfmn h nrrririm i iir hisii-u i'i :
music, .loh n .1. t iison presmeu us
msster and those called upon s after
dinner speakers were l!ev. .1. Wesley Mil
lar, Allert H. Washburn. Prin. H. W.
Haskins. Kolwrt K. Bundy. Prof. M. I
I'emn. S. M. Washburn and Kev. Robert
l". i!on. Ab-Mit attended the ban
quet, which considered a success.
She Gave an 7 av Upon
"American M Other
Parts Wer Sell Taken
Spaulding; school seniors land th5
undergradUi...cSKdy carried out the cus
tomary class day exercises of commence'
ment week at the opera house Thursday
afternoon before an audience that made
use of every available seat in the audi
torium and gallerv. Then there were
those who thought it thoroughly worth
while to stay and stand, after the last
tier of seats had been occupied. Class
day, with its spectacle of many students
assembled, has come to be one of tho
finest features of the June graduating at
Spaulding and yesterday's program pre
served the best traditions of the yearly
event.
Entirely novel, but pleasing to the eye-
were the stage decorations. The class
colors, purple and gold, were used with
charming effect in providing a panelled
background for the exercises. Over tho
center panel was the Spaulding shield
and Hcross the procenium was suspended
the class motto, "To thine own self be
true," in letters of gold and purple.
At 2j30 o'clock the student body, mar
shaled by Edmund Loranger, marched
from Main street to seats reserved for
them directly in front of the stage. .Tho
march was played by Miss Josephine
Hovey, director of music in the city
schools. Those who are to be graduated
from the high school this evening cims
last in the procession, each senior wear
ing the claos flower, the vellow rose.
Cyril C. Marrion, the class president.
acted as chairman of the exercises and
warmly welcomed the guests of the sft-
ernoon in a cordial little speech. Cpon
Miss Klizabeth S. Skinner devolved the)
honor of presenting the class history and
many of the fondest memories of four
years of school life were called up in an
entertaining way by the class historian.
Applause followed closely the first num
ber on the program and each participant
thereafter was accorded a warm recep
tion from the audience. Seldom has a.
class ode from a Spaulding senior rnnjf
truer to form than Miss Mavis C. Bar
nett's "Veritas RegFna. "There was real ;
merit in the verses and they were de
livered in vigorous stvle. Something of
the humorous waa injected into the pro
gram when D. Winmfred vSmith Ap
peared on the rostrum with a lengthy
scroll that well nigh excluded the speak
er from view, once it was unrolled. It
proved to be the class will and the in
strument, made out in legal form. wa
very capably handled by Mr. Smith.
Some of its allusioqs were hailed, appar
ently, with intense glee by the students.
Here the program was interspersed by
the first appearance of the glee club. A
sizeable chorus of young men and young
women eang "Who Will Come with Me!" ,
(Gluckl and "The Owl and ti Pussy
Cat" (Bullard) most creditably and was
heartily applauded. Miss Hovey directed!
the chorus and the accompaniments werf
plaved bv her assistant, Miss Blanche
Riiasell.
They are prophets who have the gift
of foretelling with reasonable accuracy
what lies just over the horizon and two
seniors. Miss Ruie E. Angcll nnd Edmund
F. Loranger, qualified admirably as crvs-
tal gazers in delivering the class proph.
ecv. l lie. seers were loiiowen ny .mis.
Loraine H. C. Loranger, the third honor
member of the class, who presented a,
very comprehensive essay on "American
Music." a contribution which was plainly
the fruit of much research. It was care
fully prepared and well presented. Wen-
lelin .1. Beck made the presentation to
he school, a substantial set of bleachers
which adorns the campus at Lincoln
school, where most of Spaulding's ath
letic contests are waged. It was a timely
gift and well calculated tr preserve the.
memory of lnlff among undergraduates.
Common sen?e abounded in the address
to the graduating clas. which was de
livered by Miss Winona E. Oneill. whose
part in the program was fhe product of
a good deal of thought. The glee club,
singing "Ansrels That Around I's Hover"
(from Maritsna) brought the afternoon'
exercises to a close.
DEATH OF 0. H. RICHARDSON.
DEATH OF EAST CALAIS MAN
Well Known Montpelier Man Had Shock
One Week Ago.
Orville Hale Richardson died at 8
I o'clock lat evennig at his home on Ter-
ace street, Montpelier. having suffered
a parahtic shock a week ago from which
ihe did not fully re-over consciousness.
He was born in Waitsfield. July 7,
IS.'iJ. and was the last of the sons of
Iwisp Ira Richardson of that town. He
is survived by bis wife and daughter,
Miss Caroline M.. and Miss Iternue M.
Richard-on: a nephew. Roy Richardson
nf Waitfi!d and a siter, Mrs. Frank
M. Brown of Burlington, who has bpn in
Montpelier since he was tkn ill.
He commenced his business career at
the age of 19 years. hi attention to bus
iness affairs beins divided with an ear
nct re-ard for the weltsre of his town
;-.nd eitv. He was aMrrtnsn frrm ward
hospital in Bur- 1. 1' T. sn l represented the town in.
son beirj with 'the t-4fe Irjislnture in I'"'''.
Karquhar was killed at the bead of the
Prime rtricia a year ago. A cable
to General Hucbes yesterday announced
that tHonfl Fuller had been buried in
Colonel Farquhar's grave.
The regiment Md been bt to pierea
three times and is n"w bark from the
front, waitinff or men (o f.Jl the yp
that it may return to the fchting line.
Thu tar X4-? Canadians bate been
enlisted for the overseas service.
DUTCH BEADY TO FIGHT.
ilnt tl tia. -lime !. InsrpH Persons. I
n o:ij-tiie resui.-tit .if t'' is place. lie.i
a i t : e .i vrv i i"u.in
lin"i..Tl vrsterlsv. It;.
him at the fui" ot death. Mr. rer'ti l naufi!rc and retiring in his !;
tskrn to the V.pit ni (y -tl 'position, he wa a man of erent enerjr
at,,) opernted nn for pprnd.-i! i. in' for, of character and b-s family
Another (er'ion was performed -n ,' w ill hae she heartfelt sympathy of the
Wrdnesdsv rl th'm wee).. H had hn mn' v. ho hc .onie to know him for
At Prepared for Any War, Says Army .n r B.,ith for a h"i time jbi f Ichty an! kindness.
Headquarters. Mr. Persons rrpf in the t iil mr.j Thefuieral i'l be held Sunday s'ter-
lir-ndon. .lime P.A Renter dipt-h heir:- member f o. 1. lit1! Vermont. ;nm at 2 oVJok. wilti Fv. I.wi C.
from Amsterdam mv a ttment i ! He kc tVee sr-r... Iw-lVrt r.f t n. ps-'"' of the bor-h of the M-
med from the iHit.-li armv gnrS heal : Iney of M-i.tpriw. and .r. I ,,e of .t j-aH. o-..-i:ng. The Montpelier lodg.
oiiarterwsara that the armTts -oro.ig.,y ;Cali. victv-r of c- i, - iMd F'lo. il ba a part in th
prefiared and eu:fp-d l-V any p'-sibte !tn The fnnera irar;Ti-nu ba'e .rv:r rUinal will If ia Green M9ut
,r. been tt.s ie. 4EEterT.
