"""""XL
Iff fcl
1
ana
TWENTf-fOURTH YEAR.
CARJJ3BAI), NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 918.
NUMBER .
i
fV
DEFEATED
GREATBRITAtN LOSES
ÍEST NAVAL
BATTLE EVER.
GERMANY CLAIMS TO HAVE
SI NK BATTLESHIP IN NORTH
' PEA FIGHT? TWO ENGLISH
ARMORED CRUISERS LOST.
Queen Mary, Indefatigable, Invinci
ble, Defence and lilark Prlnc Am
ong Doomed Vesaelaí Engagement
Oreara Off Coaat of Jutland; Lon
. don Asserts Enemy's Fleet Avoided
Main British Forre Mastery of
Sea Not Determined; lxnr In
Men Estimated an Running Into
Thousands; Never Before Have Two
Fleets of Such Site Come to Death
Grip.
B'lin, June 2. Germnay's high
sea fl-et met the main part of the
Hritis h fleet in battle in the north
eastern section of the North sea on
May 31. In the heavy engagement
which followed, the German fleet ac
cording to a report issued by the Ger
man admiralty, sank the British bit-
tloahin Waraliitj. tha licit ish halt!,.
cruisers Queen Mary and Imlefutiga-1
ble, two armored cruisers, and a large
GREA1
number of warship of smaller ton
nage. Several other British battle
ships are reported damaged, including
the battleships Marlborough.
The German losses are announced
a the battleship l'ommern, the
cruiser, Wiesbaden, the protected
cruiser Frauenlob, and several torpedo
boat.
Many Destroyers Sunk.
Admiral Hebhinghaus director of
the admtraltv. told the reichstag this
afternoon that the British torpedo
boat losses were greater than had first
been reported. At least three of the
destroyer flotilla flagships, said the
admiral, and nine or ten other de
tro'ers had been sunk.
Of these, the battleship West fallen
alone sank six.
German Loaaea Described.
The German battleship l'ommern
waa sank by a torpedo, tha admiral
i . continued, and the Wiesbaden by artil
1 lery. The Frauenlob was last seen by
a German d-"oyer in a night en
counter with a heavy It -it and the ad
miral said it wa assumed she had
' been sunk.
The text of the German admirul'.y
report, which is dated June I. says:
Our high sea fleet on May
31 enrountored the main part of
the English fighting fleet, which was
considerably superior to our forces.
Lasted All Night.
"During the afternoon between
Skagerak and Horn Riff, a heavy
engagement developed which was
successful for us and which continued
during the whole night.
"In this engagement, so far as
known up to the present, there were
destroyed by us the largo battleship,
Warspite, the battle cruisers Queen
Mary and Indefatigable, two armored
cruisers, apparently of the Achilles
type, one small cruiser, the new flag-
ship of the destroyer squadrons, the
'turbulent. Kestor and Alcaster, a
large number of tornedo boats do
atroyers, and one submarine.
Many Shipa Damaged.
"By observation whirh was free and
clear of objects, it was stated that a
large number of English battleship
suffered damage from our ship and
the attack of our torpedo boat flotilla
during the day engagement and
throughout the night
"Among other the large battle
ship Marlborough wa hit by a tor
pedo. Thi wa confirmed by prison
er. Crewa are Rescued.
"Several of our ships rescued parts
of the crewa of the sunken English
ships, among them being two and tho
only survivors of the Indefatigable.
"On our side the small cruiser Wies
baden by hostile gunfire during tho
ds" engagement, and his majesty's
, thlp Pommern, during the night, a
I the result of a torpedo, were sunk.
"The fate of his majesty' Alp
Frauenlob, which is mling, and of
oma torpedo boat, which have not
returned yet I unknown.
"The high sea fleet returned today
(Thursday I Into our port"
Biggest In History.
From tha advice thu far received
4 It would appear that tha greatest na
val battle of history ha taken placa.
Never before hava two naval force
of uch magnitud as the British and
German high sea fleet engaged in
combat But apparently the battle
waa not fought out to a point to de
termina mastery of tha seas, for the
losse, serious a they ara reported to
hava bean, will not impair tha
atrength of either fleet to a great ex
tent Tha lean of the battle wa in tha
astern water of tha North sea. It la
probable that tha fleet wao n on of
tha excursion into tha North tea
which it ha taken from tima ta tima
I i v tm mimr anil mi wrltntl, a
I not by design, with tha British fleet.
A Off Coaat of Denmark.
X Skagerak Is an arm of tha North
i sa btween Normay and Denmark.
Í Tha point referred to in the official
1 German statement a Horn Riff prob
ably la tha reef off tho horn on tha
southwestern extremity of Denmark.
t Thla would Indlcat that tha batU
' waa fought off tha coast of Denmark.
From tha reef to Heligoland, tha
Busin Gorman naval baaa in tha North
ONTHE SEA
sea, la about 100 mile. iwere Initiated on that evening. iney
Newg of the engagement was held are Bros. U. A. Nymeyer, J. E. Lavar
hark by tha British authorities, possi-, ty, and A. A. Bearup. During tha
lily pending the return home of the twenty years of its eristenre. the lod
fleet and the first word received of ge ha had practically all of the load
t he-battle came by wireless from Her- ling citizens of the community among
iin, by which mean the Germans are st it membership. The present build
able to escape the censorship over ca- ing wa erected in loon and since that
lie lines. time a number of interior improve-
Loaaee are Heavy. ' ments have been added.
The Ions in the ei.guKement must June 13th is Odd Fellow' Memorial
have been exteremely heavy. The bat-
tie cruiser Indefatigable, for instance, .be rendered on Tuesday evening, next,
from which the German admiralty re-'in memory of the late Louis A. Tom
pnrts only two men were saved, prob- jlinsnn, a former member of the lodge,
ably had more than 1100 men on board , The program follows:
and other of the vessel sunk carried I'iano soio.
complement of men equally or near
ly as large.
The dreadnaught Warspite was a
sister ship of the Quran Elisabeth,
both of which played a prominent
part in the attempt or the British i
Mediterranean necl lo orce tne Dar
danelles. The Warspite was H.0 led
long and displaced 27,000 tons. She
wa built in 1114 at a cost of $12,51)0,
000. The Warspite is reported to have
carried eight lii-inch guns in place
. I it : i .... .u
Queen Fllral eth She also was 1
Douiulers and was fitted with four 21.
inch torpedo tubes. Her complement
,.. rr.n ...
i. i - ii .
lit Shins Go Down
The Queen Muiy and the Indcfu
tignble were both British battle cruis
ers of 27,000 and 18,7oO tons dis-
placet
Mary
lacement respectively. The Queen
was 70 feet. 7 feet beam an I
Jrew 10 feet of water.
The Queen Mary was completed in
1013. She carried eight 13.5 inch
guns and was equipped with three 21
inch torpedo tubes.
The Indefatigable wa f7H feet long
79 1-2 feet beam and 27 3-4 feet deep.
This battle cruiser was equipped with
eight 12-inch guns, sixteen 4-inch
guns and had three 21-inch torpedo
tubes. The Queen Mary and the In
defatigable carried complementa of
between 000 and l.r0. The Queen
Mary cost about f 10,000,000 while the
Indefatigable cost nearly $8,000,000.
Dreadnaught la Struck.
The British dreadnaught Marlbor- I
ough, said to have been struck by a
torpedo, was of the Iron Duke class. !
She wa built in Dovenport in 1914,
displaced 25,000 tons, wa 620 feet
long, 05 1-2 feet beam and 27 ft deep.
She carried ten-18.6 inch gun, twelve !
6-inch gun and a number of smaller I
arms. She was equipped wth four !
submerged torpedo tubes. j
The German battleship Pommern, '
which was sunk by a British torpedo, i
displaced 12,007 tons. She waa H08 1
feet long, 72 feet beam and 23 feet !
deep. The l'ommern waa built in
1 1!,u at a cost of about lli.000,000. i
Sha carried 72'J officers and men". Her
, armument consisted of four 11 -inch!
' guns, fourteen .7-lnch guns, a num- 1
j l" r of pieces of smuller caliber, and I
' l7-7 inch torpedo tubes.
I The Fruuenlob, which did not re-
i turn to the German base after the en-
gagements, was a small German crui
ser displacing 2,715 tons. '
Description of Victims.
The Invincible was laid down in
1007. She displaced 17,200 tons, was
5(i2 feet long over all, 7M feet brum
and 20 feet deep. Her nnrmul com-
i plement was i31. She was armed I
with eight 12-inch guns, sixteen 4-
inch guns and three torpedo tubes.
ihe Invincible took purt in the naval
engagement off thu Falkland island
in December, 1014. in which the Ger-
man Pacific squadron, after defeat.
ing a British squuJron off the Chilean
coust, was destroyed.
lhe Iterance was built in 1007, di-
placement 14.1100 tons, and ordinarily
carried 755 men. Her length was 525
feet, her beam 74 feet and her maxi-
mum draught 2H feet. She was arm -
cd with four 0.2 inch and ten 7.5 inch
guns, sixteen 12-pounders and five
torpedo tubes.
The Black Prince was built In 1904.
displaced 13,550 tons and carried 704
men. She wa 4H0 feet long and 73
feet beam. Her armament wa six
0.2-inch and ten 0-inch guns, twenty
.-pounuers and three toroedo tube.
The Warrior, which was disblH.
displuccd 13,t;0 ton and is 480 feet
long. Her complement is 704. She
carries six 0.2-inch and four 7.5-inch
guns, twenty-four U-pounders and
three torpedo tubes.
Britain'a Previoua Loase.
Previous to thi battle Great Britain
had lost during the courie of tha war
ton battleship, eleven cruisers and
variolic imaMAr eraft P.amiBnu UA
lost eighteen cruisers, nineteen auxil
iary cruisers, chiefly converted pas-!
aenger line ra and numerou smaller !
vessels.
Sinca the
beoinnlno' of tha war
umisn cruiser and deitroyera havauenn,g evening, miss nemne
patrolled during day and night, tha 'rt on the eleven o'clock train for
approach to tha (ierman fleet' baa , Oklahoma.
in the bay formed by the mouth of ' Music wa furnished by tha colored
the Elba and the Weaer, protected by orchestra and the large crowd present
tha supposedly Impregnable defense, I had a very enjoyable evening, aadden
the mighty fortifications of Wilhelm 1 onlv b.v Miss Remite having to leave
shaven on the south; on the north by early to catch the train. Mr. and Mrs.
the Kiel canal and guarded by the lmh, Mis Eula Campbell, Walter
outlying Island of Heligoland. Until i Pendleton, Frank Kindel, and several
tha engagement that ha just occur r- 'others, went to tha train to bid Mis
d, however, no German fleet ha ' Rennie good bye and she was heart!
put forth in force to necessitate the ' v urged to hurry back and make
giving of tha alarm to the Britiah iCarlabvd a longer visit,
main flaat.
'
Mr. Goodwlah, who has bean visit-
ina- her brother. C. H. McLenathan
and family, leave tonight for her Music wa furnished by the negro
horn in Denver, Colo. Mr. McLena-, string orchestra and th merrymak
then accompanies hi aiitar for a vlait. r tripped tha liU fantastic until
. , a lata hour.
Mlaa Maud Jona waa hostess to a
rook party at her home Thursday y- A fw young; people enjoyed a pic
enlng and several olaaiant hour nln mniup at tha hnanltahu LM.
were apent by number of guU in of Mr. and Mr. C. C. Lewi Tours
thia lntreUnjr Ram. jday.
I. a F. 20TH ANNIVERSARY.
The local Lodfra of Odd Fellowt will
observe tha 20th anniversary of the.
Institution of tha Indira at Odd Fal
low' hall on Tuesday evening, next
Eddy lodtra No. 21 waa instituted
June 12, 1808, and there ara at pres
ent three member on ita rolla who
Day and
suitable program also will 1
.
,0,iKII,.. ( "S.. .WW IJill.fili
ifliiMK ON amfriim in iahiia
uu i iu iulu ui i i uiibitivi ii iv ni ui ni iwrii iui i
aim inM i.j r m .ii before the military authorities decid
BY LAWLESS SIRKKT THRONG. ,d ,to disperse the mob. hether any
""" " """ '"
I in Expedition.
' .... - -
c , , . . . ,
Special Train lo Leave
ChihunhlU ,
1 Morning Bringing Americana
to Border: State Department Ofll-
rial Brgard Situation aa (irsve.
..... fTT ,
! Vu i , vi t.
unuii i .cxit-nnB m
I u iiuuu an nii'tmeriean meeting neia
last evening at the Centenial theater
at Chihuahua City in response to a
call issued by General Jacinto Trevino,
commander of the division of the
north, after the meeting attacked the
American constitute, tore the coat of
arms from the door, threw stone
through the window and then made
FOR THE PARTICULAR SMOKER
LA LUCBANA
44
A GENUINE IMPORTED MANILA
Something Different Rut Just Right
Sold only at the
EDDY DRUG STORE
PENSLAR
If you wish to buy some good pigs, I
1 ""end the lieatie Wilson sale June
I '2th in Carlsbad.
, . . . 1
Jut' recnlee reports the suln ot a
'Chevrolet to Mr. Cobb of Eunice, i
Mr- "''n accompanied Juck to Queen
I in thu cur and after seeing it perform
t n''e ordered one. ine i nevroiei
is sold at $030.00, tho lowest price of
any first class car on the market and
It is fully equipped with electric
' starter, lights, speedometer and la a
J omplcte car with tires interchange-
I1'1" lnt rrd. See tireenleo
i if you want a first clu.-i cur thut will
outwear any other. Adv.
Mr. and Mrs. h. t . I.umli will leave
' next week for Okluhnma City. They
, will go through in the car. Kd. suys
' tney are coming nac Kinis tun u
it rains between now and that time. ,
I
Mis Stella Cumpbell will arrive in
Carlsbad from Oklahoma tomorrow j
night. Mis Stella is a sister of Misi j
Ella Campbell and a cousin of Miss I
Nora Ronnie. The Misses Campbell
expect to make Carlsbad their home
for a year.
i !
'
MISS RENNIE LEAVES.
Mr. and Mr. E. C. Lamb gave a
i farewell dance in honor of Miss Nora
Kennle
I On of the pleasant social events
ot the past week was the big danca
at tha club rooms Thursday evening. 1
Memorial day proclamation.
"Our Departed Brother" D. G. Gran
tham. Solo.
"Our Twentieth Anniversary" J. E.
Laverty.
Drill. Carlsbad Rcbckah Lodge.
Refreshments.
"Reminiscences."
' ALABAMA MINSTRELS.
The hiirh moral nlan on whirh the
Alabama Minstrels I conductei
should guarantee the company a lib
eral patronage by the people of
Carlsbad and virinity. The Ala
bama minstrels is one of the best
organizations of it kind in existence
and enjoys the favorable endorsement
of it audience wherever it shows.
rriday, June !th. ,
There will he a danre at the club .
room tomorrow night. Music will i
be furnished by the colored orchestra.
asaults on the Foreign club and the
hollies of a number of Americans. The
rioting laatcil for more than an hour'
American were killed or injured wus
not learned last Ight, but grave fears
General Lopex sent a detachment of
Hiilri i.r n I h A mnrlcun
consulate
duniiif the riotinir there,
but the
tioops seemed powerless to haiulle the
rioters until thev had succeeded in I
practically wrecking the property.
Consul Marion Letcher Is at present
in Washington and it is not believed
that there was any one in the con
sulate at the time of the attack.
Finally a strong guard was thrown
around the building and detachments
were sent to guard the Foreiirn clul
and the home" of the American resi
det. Information received here lute
last night indicated that anti-American
demonstrations continued through
out the night.
1
DOMESTIC BLISS.
Shewn In the Confetnona of a Happily
Married Man.
It lakes my lie i .,n4 Hme lo rend
un Ihlnx I hk I in ubule paui's instant
l. Mie hale to lie read aloud lo. I
loie It.
When we travel I always auugest to
her In advance tbe cm we slnill take
She n urce, but w III suddenly rliaime
her iiilml and Insist iihhi taking miolb
er one. I griltnblo to myself and olcy
Hie likes Hie tup of Hie aillo up. I
Inutile II up. It remullís n
I iilwa.ts praise her k(. no mailer
how badly she plays. She always dep
recates mine, no niutler bow well I
play. When I i rlllcl e iui thing she
doe I don't say It; I think It. That
wiiiiclluieK makes troiilile enough.
- 1 compliment her ih cuKtnimlly before
others she pretends tliJ alio doesn't
nmlei stand why I do IL
When I buy u new- null alio will ncv.
rr admit tlial abo admires It until It
Is worn out. Then hIiu suya tbe next
one Isn't half ao becoming aa the last.
When she tieta a new gowu I admire
II Intensely until It la about time to
replace It wllb another. She nnver
liked any list that I have ever bought.
I like every uno of hers on princ iple.
I laugh at her wbeu she get too
aerloua. When I get too aerloua wlie
scold me.
I keep her Informed about my busl
tiesa only wbeu she aaka me. Bhe nev
er ak ire, ao you know the result
I tell her a funny atory every day
If I have two I keep on for tho next
day. Sometime ab luugha at tbeia
Kb asks iu occaeloually If I think
her hair la a long us It waa. I always
tell her It la longer.
I hale bridge, dinner part It, dancing
and lhe oera. Hile real-! my opln
I lou and uiakea nut do tbeui all.
She u'akea out chinks and forgets
to cuter hem on the stubs. Every
time I catch her In tbla omission be
reminds m of Hie celebrated ocvaslou
when 1 left Ih ticket to a large the
ater party In my other suit
fib always kcepa ber temper wbeu
I loa muí. I keep mlu wben aba
loaea btr.
I ouc told ber aba waa thoroughly
anollod. Bb kuuwit n and aald ab
VnaW ItUf. ,
THEBIC CONVENTIONS
ROOSEVE
TORUNAS
A PROGRESS VE
REPUBLICANS CUT IT SHORT.
First Session Thursday Was Given
lo Permanent Organisation and a
Few Speeches, Committee on Kean
lutiona Causea a Recess Until Four.
The two Republican convention now
in session in Chicago are in a dead
lock, lhe straight Republican seem
lo want any one except Roosevelt and
tne Kooscvcltltcs will not agree to
vote for any one for president unless
nc -it -a'-hts swallow Roosevelt, tu.-k
und spectacles, egotism and conceit.
hide and hair. If the straight Repub-
I lean should happen to do the unex-
pected it would not bra surprise but.
mu Ki-!icrui conviction is inai ii will
be a dark horse, similar to the con
vention that noniinuted Garfield. I'p
to the hour of this paper going to .
pre at three I". M ! riday, but very
little has been done in either conven-
tion except lo learn thai Roosevelt too cowardly lo live"
will have no other except himself and "( .lumbus and Glenn Springs." he
will run as a bull moose if the ,,. referring t the Mexican raids,
straights do not swallow him. ."were the answer to the policy after
. 'Simla Ysabel."
t oliscum, ( hicago. June H. When A, he closed. Herbert 1 arsons mov
the doors of the coliseum were open- ,., that the convention recess until 4
ed this morning, two hours before the :i, m to await further report of the
ir,iuiiK-iin convention was que lo lie-
,rjn lnwitw,ri lli.t n.inri.,,r i-.in ..II.V.
has soaked the delegates und specta
tors for three days, was still falling.
It was just 11:22 when Chiiirman
naming nrougi.t down the gavel.
t nairman Harding asked the con-
vention to rise while Monsignor I ran-
cis (.. Kelley read a nraver
After a long delay, t. D. Warren, of
Uiphiwin nrB.i.i.lail . i ......i m .... M.. .......
of the committee on rule
f Vi. m, ..... ,. ,,, v
At 1 :31 o'clock, the convention re
cessed until 4 p. m., to aw.-tit the re
nort of the resolutions committee
which still was working on the plpat- .
form. I
The convention was in session about '
two hours and did nothing more than
penci l us permanent organization I
u'.ul Ii ten to some speeches.
Dissenting reports on the woman,
sufTrage and Mexican planks have
been curried to the full committee bv
the sub-committee and the conven-'
non was loreen in wait, wnue tne com-
mittee discussed these mensures, ami
debuted adoption of a prohibition
nlank. i
Chuunecy M. Depew. former speaker
Cuniion, und Senator llorah mmle !
speeches to occupy tbe ilolcyut", .
while tho convention win iiwiutiny tbo
t of tbe resolutions eoimnil lee.
Mr. Harding then culled for the re-
oi l of I i . i credentials committee.
Senator nmoi. tne chairman, was up- i
nlatnled a de started to read lhe te- '
port, recommending the Renting of 07
leleirates uml listing of the decisions
in cohtc-ded cuses. It excluded two
'ielegutes from the District of t'oluni
bia, admitted two card from Alaska
uml Hawaii. The report wus adopt- ;
ed. ,
The report of the committee on per
manent organization reconimenilinr
thu lemimrary nrguni.ation be minie
permanent, was then curried
ioiuoi-oi, was men curried.
Representative Bennet. of New Y.uk
the
iM-i mmirui tnui i uiun.
br'ugh Juider cu.JrsU'w h evvat tr'Z 'h.'h ,""t'luli W-lncsduy
ing tho rule committee report, the',, 'r- ( ,hB"r A,1""u h"'1. Hl'ff ''L-01.-
chairman recognized Chairman Smoot ''"f'"'"'1' h" neck Wed-
irrain for a supplemental report from , .1 i .. . , . . ...
the cre.lentiuls committee giving votes M, i ü'" W..o.l left the hospital
to tho six delégales from llawuii.l'orto Un,Uy hv11"' rte Trutor'a
Rico and the I'hilippinc.i. It wus, íí' í- i n .. i í i i i i
ulllt,(lM Mrs. (,. M. Boyd, of l.iikcwoml, whn
That made the total number of vote,'"':; '!"''''"' will
in tho convention OKI, making -í'.." hospital Sunday,
vot necessary to u nomination. ! J l horno was onornted
Finally, tho unanimous report of ' " , f"r -' 'v ' Wudnea
the rule committee wu.i ready. One i i i i . i.
of the rules prohibits n state delega- Mr',-''' ,',l,rWrl "'l"7"". , lrM
tion from changing its vote unless 1 "'l''"!" Ihurs.luy uml will soon be
here hu been un urror in rusting it. .ITT1, L i . ,
While tho report of tho rules com- . M.r": ' Vl,hll l "Pending a few
mittee was being read, an Associated ''W at, the Vi""!' . a
nres dispatch from Oyster Bay quot- Mudge t was operated on
Ing Colonel Rooseveft as willing to 1 ThH,r" ,luy t?'"' JV'"'. V,.'ry WC."'
come to Chicago if the republican con-1 Mat,,r Kra" h"'th 'nderwent an
vention wanted him to address it. was ' "'"'' tonsil. Thursday and
handed to chairman Hardin lln Amoved home shortly after. .
showed It to Senator Borah, Murray I ..- u ,u n ,, , , , u .
Crane. Charles D. Hi lie and it waVv.M." Rh Gallon leave, tonight for
then passed around to other. V,rt"r' 1 "'- to vl,lt ner ftttller'
Senator Harding had no comment to ... . . T 7.i .
make, but Senator Borah said: T.h,i.Wel,r brul" of Monument
"If I wera sure that Roosevelt ac- Uert,; Í J"r,V n,d ,e"
tually said that himself. I would b :c"k' 11!1'",,"y' Oklahoma, wher
in favor of inviting him here." ihy w'1,1 .Part ,n "'P'"" eo?-
Tha chairman appointed former sec- teil "'' 'rom1 there to other poinU
retary Stimson and Speaker Sweet. where they will rope for purses rang
of New York, to escort Chaunccy M. ,om v hundred to liv thou-
Depew to the platform. ,,nd J"". They will visit the fol-
Elghty-two years old. the famous ! 'owin, Pltt,'"! ,A ' tubu,'
New Yorker face dthe convention am'd okl" iun 9 tl",',r frf '' íow
cheers. Hi vole, was still full and íun,.IVÍ nd1 ' ',?',? u C,iir' l0""'
roun, July S, 4, fi, and Billings, Montana,
"Today, we have a world-crisis In -J"' 4 "i1 1! Garden City, Kan.,
which even Christianity I doubted", J.u '7. " 2,!, t heyenne, Wyoniiiig,
h. d nrrr nilntlinnr
"W are entering upon this canvass
either with an assertion of American
ism that will keep us out nf It, or a
mollycoddle policy that will put ua In
to It"
Tho mention of Elihu Root brought
scattered applaus and cheers. It
wai th first mention of th nam of
on of th republican candidates.
Tha ganeral ton of Mr. Deptw'
speech wa for national preparedness
and the convention approved it.
"When I turn to a pacificist." he
suiil, "I turn to a leading exponent,
my friend, Mr. Bryan, who is here in
i the hall."
The former secretary was in the
press stand as ncwspapir correspon
dent and sat sniilinir at the reference
o himself and the liiughter that fol
lowed. I Mr. Depew spoke thirty minutes.
( luiirmiin Hunting introduced for-
i mer speaker Cannon as "Grand Old
Uncle Joe",
i Without the celebrated black cigar
"Unelo Joe" bowfd and smiled.
I "Chuuncey", said Uncle Joe, turning
to Mr. Depew, "I am coming to your
IHUth anniversary." The crowd laugh
ed. "We fell out from the personal
standpoint, largely four year ago."
el Mr. Cannon, "but there i not go
ing to be any further falling nut be
cause this convention will nominal
a worthy ticket and It will be elected.
'This year, we'll have no shibnleth,'
mi lit, eltfiil v '' In, mil "TI,.. innn. '
from unvlmilv.'' I.,. ...i.l "Tb rnim.
trv's bigger than unv man or set of
men."
Chairman llardinir then presented
Senator Borah of Idaho. There was a
Kol bit of demonstration for him.
Borah made a plea for n straight
repulí lean pronouncement.
Let im pledge ourselves again a
we fl nl til'tv years ago, to a United re
public", -uid Mr, llorad.
A ,,i,,, ..i,;,. I, .i,..l..r. ii.ir
. n ,,n I i,, il.-ht uill n hn r,.,r,.l..,l
resolutions committee.
CUT BACKS RETURN.
All those of Company B, N. M. N.
(i . wh w,.,c rrlerted for beinir Dhvsi-
,.v disqualified returned on th
tn,jn from the north yesterday. The
fll t of the "cut-backs" is a fol-
Utvl unil far BH wo cou() rn
....
Ull, ,.,,. of rejection:
S. It. Kiehey, age.
A. II. U'Q'Miin, eve-sight.
Chas, W. Crorier, supposed tuber
cular. Thus. R. McLcnuthen, family health
record.
Win. I', Mcl.enathen, family health
record.
I i.' t ... i. ......... ...ii r m
Iweio - ht
l.ovd S. Beckett, too light.
nv ;,.,.kl,,t, , ikrlt.
Calvin II Duncan
jn H. Guitón, hearing.
' w ii : , ,,i,,.,,,.h ji, .,,,. ,1
off at
t lovis.
Jacob .1, l Irubaud.
I! W. Hyatt.
.lames Saml Elmo.
Joseph T. I.imllev, arm injured,
S. !'. MfCuistian.
( has. I'. Mdlill, slopped olT at El
I'UsO.
.loo. I'. Mi ( lelbin'. stopped o IT at
Kl I'llsO.
Arthu.- It. McSwain, stiqqied off at
A Ibiiqilei "lle.
lionuin VV llbnemus, age.
I'lainle I! I.
Jim. I". Roderick, Columbus.
I.. I.. Wutkins.
Royal Wilkinson.
EDDY COL NT V HOSPITAL NEWS.
Miss (loria Jackson was operated
n Saturday uml removed homo the
,u,.i,. ,lu
""' L, wl(. uill ,,,
an
I , i j
J'iy anil tv; new ion
City, N. Y., August 5 to 12. Tha Weir
llrother are noted ropers and ao
doubt will prove their talents in that
Iin by winning some of th first
prise purse. Mr. Bert Weir having
at on tira won th world' cham
pionship. Christian 41 Co. INSURANCE. ,
