(M
'III
DAILY EDITION'
.
V vol vi., Xo. sat.
"HANTS PASS, JOSEPHINE COUNTY, OREGON. FRIDAY, JINK 9, 1910.
WeOUB XUKZEK 1705.
Xo Otlic' Towii in the World the Size of Grants Pf Has a Paper With Full Leased Wi re Telegraph Service.-
1
Ml PLANK
IS DEFEATED
i at
y Progressive Convection Has
Merry Battle Over tep
tica cf Platfcrra, and Re
jects tb Prohibition Clause
Auditorium, Chicago, June . By
aa overwhelming majority tit pro
fresslve national convention tabled
by roll call vote on a motion to In
elude tn the bull moon national plat
form a prohibition amendment. The
vote we, ayes, 62); naya, 8!.
Auditorium, Chicago, June ft.
The progressive pao conimlttM re
ported at 11: JO and consideration
of the platform waa suspended whlls
Chairman Parkins reported for the
peace confereci. -"-'''
Plana were under war to delay the
afternoon session by quibbling over
tha platform and other meana avail
able In order to hold the delegates In
check while lb conference commit
tees were In session. Many of the
progressives believed It waa poaelble
that Senator Borah had been sent to
tba tnooa convention with the Idea
of testing out aentlment for, him at
com prom Ue progressive-republican
far president. .Other mooaera aald
that the phrsse "We want Teddy"
waa hurled ao loudly at Borah, that
he would neceaaarlly be convinced
that he had not a chance with the
progressives for the presidency.
When Chairman Perklne reached
the convention he aatd he had been
19 teephon ronfertnre with Roose
velt throughout the day.
Tba convention re-convened tor the
fternoon session at 8:14. with the
galleries well filled.
At 3:21 the convention tqok up
the work of finishing consideration
of the platform.
Delegate Cooper, of Lawrence,
Xaa., aprang a surprise on the pro
gressive convention toy Introducing an
amendment to the platform pledg
ing the part to aubmlt a constitu
tional amendment against the sale
or. manufacture of Intoxicating
liquors. A hot debate waa expected.
Delegate Henry Allen of Kansas
seconded Cooper's" ' amendment.
Chairman Robins pleaded with the
delegates not to allow "their prohl
1 fcltlon enthusiasm to exceed their bet
ter Judgment," and added that he
hoped one speaker on either aide
would be sufficient.
Delegate Frank Curtis of Now York
poke for the , prohibition plank.
Curtis, however, at the end of his
speech, moved that amendment be
laid over for the time.
The convention rejected an amend
ment to the platform that would have
endorsed an International court ot
, arbitration.
Chairman Robins gave the "noes"
the decision on the motion to lay
the liquor amendment on the table
and Henry J. Allen of Kansas' took
the floor to apeak for the "drys."
FRISCO LONGSHOREMEN
ARE AGAIN AT WORK
Ban Francisco, June 9. Striking
longshoreman here resumed work to
day, the employers agreeing to pay
the union's demanded wages pending
final settlement of the dispute. More
conferences are scheduled.
"Four thousand strikers here and
12,000 at other ports on the west
coast resumed work this morning.
The truce was negotiated at a meet
ing conducted by Henry M. White,
federal arbitrator, which Insted until
nearly I t. ffl,
The strikers now receive 55 cents
V an hour instead ot CO cents, $1 an
' hour overtime, a nine-hour day and
ths working ganga are limited to
lht men eatfh. ., ,
II
Ml DEATH SHIP
OF
London, Jua 9. -Rescua of It men
who were on the battle cruiser Hamp
shire, Lord Kitchener's death ship,
when the raft they clung to washed
ashore, today spurred ' search for
bodies and other possible survivors.
The announcement that 1 2 bad been
rescued was made by the admiralty.
The Hampshire, according to a dis
patch from Aberdeen, Scotland, sank,
In deep water two miles from the
coast west of the Orkney Islands.
BORAH TALKS TO
THE DULL f,iSERS
Auditorium, Chicago, June .
While the progressiva convention
held In check Its "Roosevelt-today"
spirit, 8enator Wm.; E. Borah of
Idaho appeared before the progres
sives, with what many of the dele
gates considered waa an "olive
branch" from the 0. O. P.
When the mooaera recessed abort
y after 1 p. ra. until S p. m. It waa
with the understanding that the Roo
sevelt stampede would be held np
until after the progressive and 0.
0. P. conferees got together this
afternoon -for another session. Bnt
the moose and .0. O. P. conventions
seemed today to .work along parallel
lines to the minute. Telephones be
tween tba convention hall notified
each of the other's moves and the
conference business seemed to t con
ducted on a clockwork schedule.
Soma ot the radicals said the "bull
moose" had been tamed by Perkins.
Others said the nomination of Roose
velt will come tonight, unless the
republicans agree to take him.
"I do not visit you tn an official
capacity," Borab aald In his speech.
"I think I know something ot the
favorite of this convention. It Is
pretty well known that I have a
deep-seated admiration for your great
leader,, Theodora Roosevelt."
The crowd went wild again.
"Wa want Teddy,? they ahouted.
starting the noisiest demonstration ot
the day. It lasted four minutes.
"There Is no doubt at all," said
Borah," that you want Teddy. I
have no doubt there are millions of
people who want him, too. I can
aay with .entire truth that you are
fortunate In having a 'leader who,
In my humble judgement, has done
more thsn any other five hundred
men In the United Slates to make
the Issue that this campaign Is based
upon. . 1 ;
"He Is accepted aa a master ot our
International problems. But, vmy
friends, let us bear In mind what
these two conventions shall do here
will perhaps decide the destiny of
the country for the next 25 years. ,
"We can secure results only by
working together. I . would not be
true to my convictions, It I did not
say to you that It Is essential that
tt shall be determined that we shall
march together and fight together In
this election. Who shall lead usT"
"Teddy." shouted the crowd.
"It . your convention and mine
should agree on your great leader,"
Borah concluded, "there would 'be no
more.enthuslnstlc supporter ot Roose
velt than mystwlf."
, Demlng, N. M., June 9,- Francisco
Alvarea and Juan Sanohei, conyloted
ot first degree , murder for their
part In the Columbus, raid, were hung
In ths jail here tertsv. Neither Mex
ican exhibited the slightest emotion
and were' calm IS , iWe tn'd.t'
TO
COLUMBUS
RAIDERS
RANGED
Mil Hilt SDlJS HERE SATURDAY bOAL OF Tilt
En r i J I I t Tl r .1
S-SUCg tXpeCtei tO UmmeilCe kl3 jfclS (Ve fcC
Day
Vwt Pi Cnl
Follow Each Ncni:2
id Ciers Izzg Wildly
j ticket holder waa out The concert
, . . ; , " I fully met the expectations of the
t'oliiMHim, Chii-ago, June 9. UiAirnuui Uardlng, at 4:85, said, the re- people, and waa a flnlshed and artls
puiaioan convention planned to continue Hght ahead with tho presentation Ue pfo, fcota hegtra
of nomine and it was hoped to take at leant two ballots before adjourn. . , ,
moot, lie estlmatod remaining nominating and seconding speecfaea would "d M ,0l nnmbe- Mm-
keep tb UlkfcM U aeiwlon Hp to T o'clock, when It was booed to Uke at MorrlUua, mesio-contralto, was eaU
least ifwo roU calls, . ' ; ed back again aQd again, and was
"A motion to a4lJourn, however, always is in order," he said. . - most ' generots with her responses.
: The audience also voiced its approval
Chicago, June B. p. m.In aa onof of pW-nuklig, cheering and ot the iumbm by the orchestra and
sboutJUiR tba repnlan naOpnat con,TentiDn named its tnvorlte and favored if tn; ioi0uts, and many responses
sons la nomination for the presidency today, while the affairs of the O. O. P. 'were gjven. - - -
slowly bnt surely approached a crisis. Wtthla a few hoars the country may j " xonlght"' Dr Frederick Vinlaf
know whether the republicans will present a nnlted front, or again go to nBher wU1 nta popuUr ,ectore
the poll with ranks divided and with a third candidate In the field, the -vimerlca Before he Wd"
nominee of the pgrestTe,. j , . 'trated With many stereoptlcon, flews.
At the AudiKMrium the profremivea vlKiiaUy marked time, held firmly in Elisabeth deBarrie Gill, harpist, will
tberk sy the conaerratlTe faction. ..The radical ineoaer. had ataJ fppetr 9oV, w POTtonn.
been effectively steamroUered and rolled and the nomination of Theodore ', 4 good accounting 6f them
Roosevelt was not to be peroUtted nntU the laac hope of rejoining of the ,elTei at tn, afternoon entertala
progresMive and republican forces had vanished. : . 'it :. ; v5 . ment ' ' ' ' ; "! ' "
In the meanUme, the republican machine ground on steadily toward thei Tomorrow will be the closing day
moment when the Anal decision must come. It was estimated at four of the Chantanflua, and fuU bUls are
o'clock that at the rate the nominating apeecbeK aa4 deinonstratlona were prepared for both performances. In
being disposed of the first ballot for president might be reached by 5:80 the afternoon King Arthur's pageant
p. m. Xo recess was planaed. I . - v i , lwin be' presented by ! the Junior
Some believed adjournment for a time might be token after abpot two aujefvlaor and the little folks who
ballots to permit further conferences between the Mpeace committeee," but hITe been under her training for
the opinion was arncrBj od It waa apparently the plan of the leadersw wek prelude by the
that a nominnUom should be made before final adjournment tonight. Hawaiian nintet. The HawaUans
wna. a Kimuwy tor me lavonte
inaung eern tneir Mate ociegauons
paraainff. At mis Hoar, Theodore Burton had the best of It, so Car aa a re-
cora tor sustained noue-maung waa
Dunons demonstration sagged badly at the aaees at times, but was
aept aiive ror no minutea.
uV rwruKHKB uwiuiiiwmmi umcu m minuiw. ne oemonsirauoa iot
Sherman was In progress for 87 minutes, and that for justice Bughes 20
nunuKw.
General ImPont, of Delaware, was
Hughes was to bo put over was the
a wwwiin unwwi m ie cruwum Kwienee paoenuy nstenea to uie
nrMOfy
Outskle of the favorite son camps the general feeling was hat Hughes
would be the nominee. ' ' v
That Hughe would not be accepted by the progressives was generally be
lieved.' Roosevelt was to be placed In nomination by 8enator Fall of New
Mexico, and with this Impending the crowd stood close what Would happen.
Coliseum, Chicago, June . O. O.
P. hosu today received report of tha
"harmony conferences' between re
publicans and progressives without
any great amount ot enthusiasm, and
promptly went ahead to nominate
their candidates for the presidency.
Mention of Roosevelt's name by
Senator Smoot In reading tbe report
of the conferees evoked only one and
qne-'halt minutea of applause and It
was not any too fulsome at that.
Cal of the roll ot states for nom
inating speeches waa begun at
11:15. ')
Governor Whit man Name Hughes
Alabama ' temporarily .passed,
Alaska did not answer, and Arlxona
finally yielded to Now York. Gov
ernor Whitman then . put Justice
Charles Evan Hughes In nomination.
An attempt to have Roosevelt in:
vlted to address the Q..O. P. con
vention proved abortive. Delegate
Weinberg of Maryland had a reso -
lutton all ready, providing an Invi
tation, but was forestalled when In
formed that unanimous consent was
necessary for Us consideration.
Smoot's report waa considered with
deep attention and he had frequently
to pause for pplause.
The prospect at noon waa that the
nominating and seconding speeches
would continue for at least three
hOUTS.
Whitman, nominating Hughes said:
. "We are assembled here to name!
the standard bearer of the great re-i
publican party. We are here ln re-
aponse to demands ot the 'American
people, that a minority president
give way to a leader representing the
majority. We are here to select the
next president of the United States.
The national horlson Is dark and
troubled. From afar the lurid flashes
'of a fOrld war remind usAof out1
4 IiA.:-.
t,--
Sr:;cb, Bujies,
1
Cheered VTtsa I!;i::J
aonm -At me conciwto. of each nons-
led la a sesnlcft of the cheering and
concerned.
the trailer with 41 seconds. Whether
question that was most psletojfli pnt
own cltlxens killed and our own flag
Insulted. To the south we sjee an
archy encroaching on our borders.
ai wasmngton, the president watch
ea an,4 waits. Yet'wa mnst not think Hff ar Mveral P,n" nortnwest or
the task before us an easy one. The ,Tt?nt' ln tbe Cn,? and tn
country la stll) at pece and the main- dP1 ? tw Austrian concentra
tenance of. peace will -be plausibly .tlonB ,n th LaGarlna valley ar? con
clalmed by the democratic party, i indicative of the furthCT
That party hopea that the country wenlng of the Austrian' offensive
will soon forget the Insults to our due to tb wthdrawal ot troops to
national honor. It la Its belief that defend aJn,t the Russian offensive,
the people will not long remember In the la8t BeTeral tne Austrian
the vacillating diplomacy clothed in,offlc,l Prt nave not claimed
glittering rhetoric which has alarm- lfaJn" 00 e Italian front. Prior to
ed our people, discredited our stand-.
ing among the nations and brought.
hb to the verge ot war.
An I nnatural Prosperity 4 j
"A form of prosperity la In the!
land and few, perhaps, realize its J
temporary nature or pause to an-'
alyse Its cause."
Here Whitman cited the wax as
8,v,n unnatural prosperity,
"Our party la rich ln men imbued
with' the true spirit of American-
Ism. ' Not one of them can claim
preponderance of the American spirit
tn his heart or In his nature. without exception, been halted, with
"We bring to you today the name heavy ,0B!' to the Frnch
of a man trained in battle for the L,ve,y mCtlon" re "Ported ,t
truth, tried and found faithful andother P,nt8 MonR the eastern line,
able In the administration ot great the moat notable near Llhons and
public trusts, free from factional near the 8PPM railroad station In
strife. Hla private Ufa Is above bus- jChampagne.
plclon, his public life without a flaw,
a great lawyer, an effective cam
paigner,, an able executive, a mature
statesman, a learned Jurist, he, above
all others, combines the essential
Qualifications of a true reader ln this
crisis of the party and ot the nation."
DemonMtratlon For Jurist
The greatest demonstration came
when Whitman finished, not mention
ing Hughea' name until the last
(S sled uo psnui)UOQ)
' vnauiauqua tent was Biiea
atauding room capacity last night and
lne concert by WiUpskle's orchestra
I was thoroughly enJored bv the areat
throng. W was undoubtedly the
premier attraction of the week In the
minds of the local public and every
win appear kgaln la the evening, and
there will also be an Illustrated lec
ture.' "Isles ''ot Peace." by Frederick
A. Halt on
At last night's entertainment the
first effort to secure pledges for the
cbaufauqua next year was made, and
Y nunVber of cards guaranteeing the
purchase of tickets , ware signed up.
A guarantee from local business men
J wll again ne asked, this guarantee
calling for the sale pf not less than
400 season tlckeU at fJ.BO each.
GfJI HEAR TREIIT
London, June 9. Italian galna
,,une UM naa BWn reP"a
pnoa ot iwoweeKs.
'
FRENCH DRIVBX BACK
..'-. . IS GERMAN REPORT
. 1
Berlin, via Sayvllle, June 9. The
German troops on the east bank of
the Meuse are beating back the
j French, according to the official
statement of the German war office
j today. Counter-attacks with strong
forces in the Douaumont wood and
'Ohaplnet forest and Fort Vaux have
SPOIIS HlimY'S LOOKS
FOR OTHER WOMEN
Sherman, Texas, June 9. Because
ahe feared her husband was attrac
tive to other women, Mrs. L. P. Oath
rlsrht poured lye In his eyes and over
his. face as he slept last night, ac-'t
cording to a confession Sheriff Slav
mons claimed the woman made to
day. Gathright's sight was destroy
ed and his face ttrrrbly seared.
mm
sip
Rccbrs Are V.di Fcr-
wdcaGredCz&Ii:
a
5 Da$ Are llzdtj 2C3,CC3
London, Juns f. Lemberg. tba
great fortress and city of northeast
Austria, about 180 miles from ths
fight front east of Brody, Is the Imme
diate goal of the on-rushing Russian '
'bear. In the belief of the London
correspondents at ths front Lem
berg Is about 100 miles directly east
of PrzemeiL the scene of, soma of
the fiercest of the eastern, front fight
lag early In the war. According to
Petrograd dispatches, the five Aus
trian armies along the front are Is
retreat, and 1 the realization that
they; ould. not hold, their, positions
against ths artillery attacks of tba
Russians the greatest of the war on
ths eastern front" Petrograd sow
falms' fifty thousand Austrian pris
oners and sets the Austrian casual
ties of ths present offensive, five days
old. at nearly JQ 0.000. The greatest
nun lor xpe Kusstanis iuixx, tae
third corner of the Volhyalan trl-
sngle of fortresees." At this point tha
Russians drore tha Auetrians back
25 miles without a halt.
TEUTOI ATTACK IS
SIM TO WEST
London, Ju l.WJth Fort Vaux.
key to Yerdun," in their, hands, tha
Germans have', shifted, their, heavy
artillery attacks to "the west bank ot
the ileuse" anil late yesterday botn-
'baided Hill 304 and the region of
Chattanconrt with violence, Paris dis
patches announced.. '
Chattancourt Is on the Chattaa-
court-Ar&an ridge and Is just south
of Cnmleres. The French defenses
on the east bank have not been neg
lected toy the Germans. They are
carrying on Intermittent artillery at
tacks, with occasional Infantry rushea
on the positions near Thiaumont
farm. They were unable to . gala
ground. '
imiTicir 1 vii r.muiv
OEaTKOYKKS IX COMBAT
London, June 9. British monitors
and destroyers engaged German des
troyers near Zeebrugge yesterday
morning and after a brief action
drove the enemy off. The British.
craft were not damaged and there
were no British casualties, the ad
miralty announced today. . (,
III
CAILLETTE WOODS
Paris, June 9. Admission that the
Germans in their attacks ot late yes
terday penetrated a French trench In
CaiUette woods on the east bank of
the Meuse Is made ln the official
communique of tbe French war office
today. Elsewhere attacks were halt
ed.'
The Germans ara continuing their
attacks on a two-kilometer front east
and west of Thiaumont farm, says
the staiement, which 'characterise
ihera as being ot the utmost violence.
On the west bank of the Meuse
two Bmall attacks on HU1 304 wers
GERMANS
AIII
resume by tae uermans. '
