FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
1 '
t VOli. U. NO. 21G
pNCH RECAPTURE GREATER
PART W DUUAIMONT FORT IN
TERRIFIC ALL-NIGHT ATTACK
Germans Retain Only Small Corner of
Stronghold Taken by Branden-
burgers in Early Verdun
Fighting
w- -
Both Berlin and Paris War Offices Claim Repulse of Fierce
Assaults Teutons Admit Enemv is On f.hp nffpnsivo
. ,-, . . :. .:
'"IL in virtually iiivery sector ot Meuse Battlefront
The greatest French counter-offensive since tho bnttlo of Verdun began
ftreo months ago, is carrying French legions into a smashing drive against
the German lines both cast and west of the Mouse.
An official statement from tho Gorman War Office this afternoon, admit
ting, that tho French arc on tho aggrcssivo in practlcaclly every sector of
Verdun, specifically denies the French claim that virtually all of what remains
Jef fhell-wrecked Fort Douaumont is in French hands.
'South of the ruins of Fort Douaumont and south of tho village of Douau
pont an engagement is still going on," said the German statement. "Fort
Douaumont remained firmly in our hanqV'
The French "War Office, on the other hand, announced today that tho French
have made further progress in tho fighting at Fort Douaumont and have now
cleared tho Germans from all but tho northeastern corner of tho fort.
The German War Office admits tho loss of a position northwest of Fort
Vaux to tho French, but declares that it was reconquered by tho Germans.
Berlin not only claims tho repulse of all French attacks west of tho Meuse, but
reports tho capture of a French blockhouse south of Ca'mard Forest
The BritfSh War Office admits tho loss of 1500 yards of trenches at the
norlh end of Vimy Ridge, about half way between Loos and Arras.
A great war council, attended by all the field marshals commanding the
German armies, is being hold in Berlin, according to reports received at Am
iterdam. The calling of tho war council is said to havo been prompted by tho
dissatisfaction that has developed among German commanders as a result of the
futile efforts of the Crown Prince at Verdun.
PARIS, May 23.
in all-night lighting of tho most furious
diiracter, tho French expelled tho Germans
from all but tho northeastern corner ot
Fort Douaumont. tho War omco announced
iuv Thn fort had been held by the
K Teutons, since Ferbuary 26. when It was
UL..... .,. 4t,n '"Irnn TtrnnrtH hurcerfl.
csnuiicu u . -.w.. , --
Heavy German attacks on both banks of
iii Aleuso wore entirely repulsed except
j torih of Thlaumopt farm, on the cast bank,
tjitre tho Germans reoccupled a trench
.p.ured recently by tho French.
' $hera lino 2B miles long, German troops
ijimti forward against he French posl-
? Hafts, winning at somo points, only to bo
$ fiinwn out by tho French counter-attacks
tMch followed-
" Tne, Wat Office .communlquo states that
,th German looses ln'tho-nBhUncuiVbath
tides of the Mouse river, In the Verdun
rtklon. Were tremendous.
On that section of tho line whero the
Infantry .forces were not at grips on the
ihell-swpt elopes of the Meuse hills, the
blgfuns, "were engaged In a smashing
bombardment and tho thunder of the cannon
eoiiia' bo ;lieard for many miles.
tmmna
i&tiXQtX
NIGHT
EXTRA
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, MAY 23, 1010.
Constant, 1010, or thi Polio Ltvctn Coiinm,
PRICE ONE CENT
ASSAULTS ON HILL. (304.
The Germans made two violent assaults
tralnst the French position at Hill 304,
but both were repulsed.
East of Hill 304, the- soldiers of tho
Crown Prince, after a bloody strugglo, drove
the. French from some of their trenches,
but before tho Germans could organize
their new positions they were overwhelmed
by -a counter-attack and forced to give up
their conquered ground.
Fjrench guns shelled tho German posi
tions atDouaumont all day Monday, and
at sunset the French Infantry began to
drive against the wrecked German trenches.
The Teutons were driven from most of
tne fort, but managed to retain a small sec
tion, which Is now under hot artillery fire.
The fighting on the Verdun front during
the last 24 hours has been as violent as
any'ilnce the mighty battlo opened on Feb
ruary -81, Amidst the uproar of heavy ar
tillery fire and beneath the fitful red glare
of star Iwjmba the soldiers of Trance and
Germany were at each other's throats
'throughout the entire, night Dawn found
the"hlll!des strewn with corpses and soaked
th blood. Tho battered patches of wood
land were upturned 'into hills of earth and
tree, trunks where the heavy shells had
bunt r
The text of the official communique fol
Iowa; In the region of Verdun the battle
continued with extreme violence all
V!rht on both banks of the Meuse.
On, the left bank furious counter-attacks
launched by the enemy against
our positions at Hill 304 were com
pletely checked. West of Hill 304, In
Jiartlcular, the enemy made heavy use
ef machines for throwing flre, which en
abled him to penetrate ono of our
trenches, but a brilliant return attack
y our troops forced him to evacuate
timedlately all the occupied positions,
(To the .east, despite a preparation
- ar.ada by an Intense artillery fire, the
"Wrt attack, broken by our fire,
as unable to approach our lines.
On the right bank. In the sector of
Ihlaumont and Douaumont, the battle
rl
Continued outrage Four, Column KItb
rntTTn Trrm a mTTmn
It la the prerogative of ono who gets
eant meed to praise himself. Yesterday we
predicted rain before sunset, "brashly, as
me one said. We offered 10-to-l odds.
iJf.'W looked tt the weather forecast:
Tm X.ton'8ht' wlth Probable Bhowers" It
5 There was nothing about showers be
rwe sunset The sun was blazing malevo-
r"u7. we, became uneasy. We really
Ola lint maun K.. .... it .
ijfT ra,n before midnight, but ''sunset"
Wwd so much better. Howeverit did rain
.?,r. "?nset A shower "fell In Logan
X2!r 4 'cl0C In the afternoon, and
W.I! rJttttT 8 o'clock the pavements of
nJh,HfhUail",phla Bllatened wet with a
jVflaSHnH nf fain
I n2uLp,vae Prediction for today Is: Jtaln.
, TM odds are 103 to 1, t
FORECAST
Cffi PhiMphia and
.,"& . unsettled to
I tai,.ru.)na temperature: Wednesday
1 k W? 'ouwrlu winds.
- cj see page 14,
vicinUu-
tonignt with
MST AND FOUNT!
ijTjfH on Sunday, sjnall wire-haired fox
6a3iKnRS,', .yhn returnul to K. B
"iwmseoa. Sffcool Houm lap. Germantown.
vrx Lo.i. M.I. . . . .- ...
sL ti -riisKMTiirjfcaar,Tt
ttS1! ia 3'aiwf" ts " Vookls.
BERLIN SOCIALIST
LEADER APPROVES
U.S. PEACEMAKERS
Either Wilson or Taft Ac
ceptable to Party, Philip
Schiedemann Declares
FORESEES END OP STRIFE
ifojIE, Blay 23. President Wilson's
reply to Pope Benedict's reported peace
message has reached the Vatican.
By CARL W. ACKERMAN
BEItLIN, - May 23. Either President
Wilson or ex-President Taft would be ac
ceptable to German Socialists as a peace
maker, Philip Schiedemann, German Social
ist leader, told mo today.
The appointment of a "food dictator" In
Germany, Schiedemann added, would de
stroy allied hopes of victory through the
blockade and compel .England to make
peace,
"Tho Socialists are always for peace,"
said Schiedemann, who recently Interpel
lated the Chancellor In the Reichstag on
peace discussions. "I personally am con
duced that the Chancellor desires peace.
He lias so Indicated twice In Reichstag
speeches and once Jn the note to America.
Reichstag members believe that If Germany
solves the food problem now England will
be compelled to make peace, because In
this manner the blockade problem will be
solved.
"There Is enough food for all In Ger
many. What Is needed Is nbsolute control
and distribution. The German States must
supply Berlin, which formerly depended
upon outside States to feed her. Wurtem
burg, for Instance, can Bend bacon and
Ilanrla batter.
"The appointment of a food dictator will
bo an Important step politically. Hitherto
the small States directed their own affairs.
Continued on rI roar. Column One
WAITE STAKED HIS LIFE
AGAINST MILLIONS WITH
DRUG WORTH 25 CENTS
Arsenic, in Peck's Body Could
Not Have Been Administered
in Embalming Fluid, Murder
Witnesses Testify
CHLOROFORM IN BRAIN
. " i
NEW YORK. May SJ. While Dr. Arthur
Warren Walte, bon vlvant and LotharlOj. qn
trial for his life for 9 nmrder of his
father-in-law. John E. Peck, a millionaire
of Grand Rapids. Mich, sat In court today
and gaied almost steadfastly at the floor,
the prosecution brought out the cold facts
of bis poison plot. The defense did not
wek to dispute the evidence of the presecu-
"VTargaVa Horton, the dove among
crows, who was. Walte's studio compan on.
heard the testimony. She was unaffected.
TUB TESTIMONY,
' UTnat aVotafof about four grains of
arsenic waa " be viscera pt John E.
PThat this arsenio was taken through
fjj mouth and could not possibly have
been administered In embalming fluid
BfThaf ih'e" brain of peck contained
..hinroform (The prosecution. In open
!$ would b. Proved that
WaltThelda chloroform-waked hand.
Kief over ?eck'a face Tfew hours
Ttat'1 Doctor Waltei on March I.
.t,r?davs befow tho death of Peck,
PUsedrgralns of arsenlQ to "pol.
tr;W,when,tarau4
BapWS, Slier iw T
jpgaJfeyrf W JPM SW CrfWBA Ms
"HOOK THE CROOK" INDICTED
Four Men and Womnn Accused of
Pcddljng Drugs by Federal Grand
Jury
In Its first presentment to Judge Dickin
son today the Federal Grand Jury Indicted
four mon and n. woman for Illicitly dealing
In narcotics and returned a true bill against
one man for unlawful possession of dope.
Among thoso Indicted for peddling Is
Charles Patterson, colored, an old ofTender,
who Is known as tho "Dopo King of Lom
bard Street." Patterson has nevernl times
been arrested and served short terms for
dealing In dope.
tjwls Gibson, nllas Leedom, nnd Frances
Gibson, In whose homo on Quince street
revenuo agents and members of the vice
squad confiscated several hundred dollars'
worth of narcotics, were also Indicted as
denlern. Two other men, Jesse Slcllanno,
nllas "Hook the Crook," nnd Moses Max
well, negroes, aro charged with being dopo
dealers. Frnnk Adams was Indicted for
unlawful possession of prohibited drugs.
ITALIANS FALL
BACK FROM 7
TO 10 MILES
Austrians Claim Big Gains
on Mountains Domina
ting 'Arsiero
12-INGH GUNS ACTIVE
VIENNA, May 23.
Before tho furious drlvo of tho Austro.
Hungarian troopt In tho Tyroloso Alps, the
Itallnns have fallen back from seven to ten
miles. The capture of tho Italian posltlcup
on tho Laarono plateau cast of Rovorcto
la regarded by Austrian military critics as
one of tho most Important achievements
of tho Austro-Hungarians since they oponed
their offensive on tho southwest front on
Mny U.
Using 12-Inch howitzers, the Austrians
aro now shelling the Italian position nround
Arsloro, which lies In Italian territory, six
mlU-' south ot Costabella.
By tho capture of Col Santo, Costabella
and the ridge ot Monto Mngglo tho Austro
Hungarians hao opened tho way for a dou
blo drive again Arslero.
Although they hae resisted stubbornly
tho Italians havo proved their inability to
stand before the mighty artillery fire which
tho Austrians havo concentrated against
their positions.
CLAIM 25,000 PRISONERS.
Ir addition to tho big gains In territory
anl tho capturo of fortified position . he
Aiftro-IIungarlans hae taken nearly
28,100 prisoners nnd approximately 176
guns since the offensive opened less than
a fortnight ngo.
Tlmt the Italian Government and the
Italian general staff Is worried by the
continuous advance of tho Teuton troops
and the ever-growlngjnenaca tatho lines
tf communfcatlon"suppIyJng the' Italian
nrmy on the Isonzo front is Been In the
frequent councils of war and the proclama
tions which are being Issued to 'reassure
the Italian public.
While Field Marshal von Hoetzendorf ts
exerting his Btrongest Infantry pressure In
the Tyrolese Alps, tho Italian positions all
ho way to tho sea are being kept under
artillery fire.
ITALIANS MAY CALL FOR HELP.
Austrian mllltnry critics, In reviewing
the steady progress of the Teuton troops,
express the belief that, unless the Italians
are able to rally their forcos for an effective
counter-blow, they may aoon bo calling
upon tho Allies for aid. This would not be
a surprising step In view of the fact that
Russia, Canada, New Zealand and Australia
have sent troops Into Franco to help tho
Anglo-French forces.
In tho event Italy's position grows vitally
serious, Serbian troops may be transported
across the Adriatic to help hold tho vic
torious Austrian army In check.
FOUR NUNS IN DEATH
DARING DASH IN AUTO;
BRAKES OUT OF ORDER
Dr. Ruth Engelhardt, Who Was
Driving Limousine at Glen
side, Says It Crashed
Down Incline
ONE SERIOUSLY INJURED
Dr. Ruth Engelhardt. proprietor of the
Lansdale Sanitarium at Lansdale, today
gave details of an automobile accident In
which aha and four nuns, one of whom Is
said to be Sister Agnes, Mother Superior of
St. Stanislaus Convent at Lansdale, were
Injured. One of the victims, who sustained
concussion of the brain and Internal In
juries, has been unconscious since the acci
dent, which occurfed late Sunday afternoon.
Doctor Engelhardt" was operating the car,
which had. Just come from o repair shop
and was supposed to bo in perfect order.
While she and her four guests were rldlnir
through aienslde, she says, the cylinder
of the limousine suddenly broke while the
car was ascending a Bteep hill opposite
"Grey Towers," the home of William Welsh
Harrison. Doctor Engelhardt attempted to
apply tho brakes, but they would not work.
The heavy car with lta occupants slid down
the Incline at Increasing speed,
Retaining her presence of mind. Doctor
Engelhardt remained at the steering wheel
and was able to guide the drifting car Into
an embankment at the roadside. The shock
of the sudden stop overturned the automo
bile and the five passengers were Imprisoned
In the tonneau
Breaking the front glass. Doctor Engel
hardt climbed out of the wreckage, apd
with the help of bystanders, who came tq
their assistance, dragged the four nuns
from beneath the car. All were unconscious
when extricated, and wera laid on the em.
bankment until medical attention could Uie
procured. Three pf the. nuns revUe4 speed?
lly and were found to be suffering mainly
from shock, their other Injuries being but
superficial. Mother Agnes, however, was
unconscious, and, according to Doctor Engel
hardt, was taken at once to the sanitarium,
whero she has remained since without re
gaining consciousness.
Two of the other victims, whose names
Doctor Engelhardt declined to make pub
lic, were vlsltore from Virginia, and havo
go far recovered that they expect to leave
for their home tomorrow. Efforts to obtain
Information from St, Stanislaus' Convent
to4ay were met by denials that any of the
nuns at that Institution was the victim of
an automobile accldont. and. requests (or
information concerning Mother Agnes wer.
denied. TJw Identity of the, fpurta nun In
tb party was also refused, by poctoriEugel..
bard, f
30,000 MEXICAN
TROOPS MARCH
ONES. BORDER
Washington Fears Move to
Back Up Demand ior
Evacuation
ARTILLERY WITH ARMY
Funston's Forces Far Outnum
beredBaker May Dispatch
Coast Guards
WASHINGTON, May 23. Thirty thou
sand Caxranzlsta soldiers, Infantry, artil
lery nnd cavalry, aro massing south of
tho International boundary In Mexico,
where they command the Big Bend district
of Texas.
Officials today nddlttcdly wcro troubled
over this latest movement, fathered by Gen
eral Trevlno, ofllclally reported to tho State
Department today. They can see little rea
son for this show of strength, as the earlier
reports stated that only 10,000 troops were
being used In tho present movement. In
lev of this fact that the United States
troops aallnble In thl- section are far less
In number, somo ofllclals wcro Inclined to
bclloe that Carrnnza was distributing his
forces to back up another demand for tho
withdrawal of nil American soldiers from
Mexican soil.
Ostensibly, the Carrnnza troops wero or
dered to tho Big Bend border to protect tt
against further bandit raids nnd to relievo
tho Langhorno-Slblcy expedition, which now
has returned to tho American side. Just
why this added number of troops la not
known.
Further uneasiness Ib caused by the fact
that Trevlno has with his forces a nur
ber of nrtlllcry pleccB, which could sei ;o
little service In n patrol of the border and
a bandit hunt. Just how far to tho north
these forces have proceeded has not been
stated.
Coming on top of reports of Increasing
Continued on Vntce Four, Column Two
PRESBYTERIANS '
EXPECT FIGHT ON
BOARD MERGER
Heated Debate Likely on
Proposal to Combine
. . w EiucationBodie's ' ' . .
DENY N.- Y. COMPROMISE
Assembly Determined to Fight
Out Heresy Controversy
to Finish
ssFT?"
'-5& iw, vTOfl V J
Hid jurfSf hv1 itsSlh' '
is Ukm. $5fi. I .B i
JKt jtJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ : i
DR. EDWARD L. WARREN
Newly elected permanent clerk of
the General Assembly of the Pres
byterian Church. He is librarian
of the Kentucky Theological Sem
inary, at Louisville, Ky,
By FRED E. BAER
vfH(0 Lfdqer Staff Correspondent
ATLANTIC CITY, May 23. The General
Assembly of the Presbyterian Church Is
expecting that a nght will develop thla
afternoon over the proposition to merge
the Board of Education and the College
Board, one of the most important questions
to be decided by the convention. Dr, J,
Boss Stevenson spoke for the committee
handling the problem, this morning, when
Its report was submitted.
Judge Andrews, of New York, has an
nounced that he wjll talk In faor of the
merger., ueorge v. Aiassey, jormer cniei
counsel for the Pennsylvania Batlroad, In
one of tho first speeches made concerning
the proposed merger, pointed out the legap
dlrncuitiea in me way or tne amalgamation
and raised a doubt as to the wisdom of
confirming- tho commission's report. Theo
retically, Mr. Massey -said, he la In favor
of the merger, "although not practically."
Dr. Bobert Watson moved to reject tho
report and discharge the committee, An
effort was made by the stated clerk, Pr,
William IL Ilobe'rts, to have the debate
on the proposition end at 4:20 o'clock, but
the commissioners would not listen to his
suggestion. They want every side ot the,
matter presented. Consideration of it was
stopped at noon for tne devotional exer
cises, a recesa following, but here will be
stoniiy times a,t the afternoon session, If
expectations "come true,"
The question Is even more Interesting to
Continued on I'aie Scren, Column, Twu
QREW BACK FnOM BERLIN
Secretary of United States Legation
Refuses to Discuss German -iffairs
?IEW YORK, May 13. John C Grew, of
Botou, secretary ot the United Staea Em
bassy In Berlin, arrived here today on the
liner Frederick VIII. on two months' Jeavq
pf absence, II.e declined to diacusa Qerman
affairs.
Although a neutral ship, the Frederlyk
VIII was taken into port by a. Bdthsti war
Hhjb anl 13 ba3, o JaU seiiwi,.
QUICK NEWS
JAMAICA RACING RESULTS
t
first race, fillies, 2-year-olds, selling, $500 ndded,, 5 furlong?
Solvcig, 109, Keogh, 7 to 10 and out, wonj "Lobelia, 00, Summer, 1?
to 10 nnd out, aocond; Old Diury, 105, McCnhey, 10 to 1, 3 to 2 nnd
out, third. Time, 1:01 3-C. Only three stnttcro.
WOODBINE RACING RESULTS
t
First race, 600 added, House Plate, selling, 3-year-olds aud up,
0 furlongs Commensia, 107, Anderson, $3.70, $2.70, $2.30.A8trolo'
gcr, 110, Warrington, $3 30, $2.00; Tito, 104, Mott, $2 00. Time
lllO. Lady Spendthrift, Lochiel, Johnny Harris, Lehigh and Tna
hard alco ran.
SIX DROWN WHEN BRITISH STEAMSHIP SINKS
LONDON, May 23. Tlio British steamship Rhcnass, 285 tons, has been surik,
It was announced today. Six members of tho crew woro drowned. Tho captain nnd
threo sailors wcro saved.
DR. SCHELLING'S DAUGHTER TO WED PROP. SERONDE
Joseph Seronde, 33 years old, of 4008 Spruco street, assistant professor of French
nt tho University of Pennsylvania, and Miss Dorothea Darbyshlro Schclltnc;, 2G years
old, of 4100 Spruco street, daughter of Dr. Kellx E. Scholllne, head of the English
department nt tho University, obtained a marrlngo llccnso today. Tho wedding will
tako placo Juno 1.
ASQUITH MOVES NEW $1,500,000,000 WAR CREDIT
LONDON, May 23, Premier Asqulth this afternoon moved In Commons a now
war credit for $1,500,000,000, bringing the total appropriations slnco tho beginning of
the war to $11,000,000,000. In urging tho passage of tho credits, tho Prlmo Minister
declared that without loans from England tho Allies would bo unablo to contlnuo
their combined operations successfully. He said that England cannot liopo at this
time even to diminish her loans to her allies or to her dominions, and declared It
would bo unwise to count on England's war expenditures falling below $23,750,000 a
tfay. Tho expenditures for tho last 50 days alone havo been about $1,205,000,000, tho
Premier stated, an nverago of $21,100,000 n day. '
TROY COLLAR WORKERS TO GET 10 PER CENT. INCREASE
TBOY, N. Y., May 23. Nearly 20,000 women and girls who work nt home and
In factories of tho Troy collar firms "will receive an Increase in, pay amounting to 10
per cont. commencing next Monday.
TWO INDICTED IN WIRE-TAPPING SCANDAL
NEW YORK, May 2$ Indictments In connection with the wlrertapplng scandal
that has Involved city and Federal officials were returned today by tho Kings County
Grand Jury against Charities Commissioner John A( KlngBbury and Attorney Wil
liam If. Hotchkfss, Both men figured prominently '" tho charities investigation
during which tho telephone of tho Rev. William 13. Farrell, a Catholic priest, was
tapped.
VARE EXPOSAL
TO SHOCK CITY,
SAYS PENROSE
Senator Declares Prosecu
tion Will Follow Evidence
of Lawless Practices
PROMISES AFFIDAVITS
Foe of Downtown Leaders As
sorts Documentary Evidence
Will Prove Corrupt Rulo
Penrose Threatens Jo Bare
Fraud in Varc District
SENATOR PENROSE DECLARES:
Tho Stnto will bo startled by
tho publication of tho facta In
South Philadelphia.
Tho Vnro influence ia based
on prncticos, which will not bo
tolerated by decent Republicans
of the State.
Data hns been accumulated
in tbo form of affidavits of
hiRh-hnndod methods and il
legal practices, which will bo
mndo tho basis of legal pro
ceedings. If tho frauds aro as wide
spread as cursory examination
indicates, they will bo exposed
on tho floor of tho next Con
gress. As fnr as I am concerned, I
wclcomo any investigation of
tho election in any district in
Pennsylvania.
I am not informed bf viola
tion of tho law anywhere in
Pennsylvania except in tho 1st
District
SENATOR VARE REPLIES:
Tho statement is so far from
tho truth that I wouldn't dig
nify it by making nn answer
to it.
This is merely another one of
thoso "Penrose bluffs."
WILL OPEN BARGE LINE TO NEW YORK MONDAY
i
A new bargo service, which will bo known as tho Blue Bee Lino, will connect
Philadelphia with the port of Now York starting Monday next. The routo will bo
by way of tho Dclawaro and Rarltan Canal. Four barges, each with a capacity of
125 tons, will bo put Into service at first. Tho object of tho service Is to overcome
the congestion of railroad traffic between tho two ports.
$350,000 GIFT TO HAVERFORD FOR GRADUATE WORK
Haverford College, through its Board of Managers, which' met vesteSrday, an
nounced that In tho will of tho late Thomas "WIstar Brown, for years president of
tI)o Board of Managers, a bequest of $350,000 had been mado for special graduate
work In sociology, Biblical literature, philosophy and history. Hitherto the collego
has had no special fund for graduato work. Other bequests also wero announced.
The Gideon Scull gift of a chair In English constitutional history was $146,000 Instead
of $100,000, ns at first believed. This sum, together with tho sale of land In West
Philadelphia for $72,000, gives tho collego more than $560,000 for use next year.
Tho land was a part of the Jacob P. Jones estate, bequeathed to Haverford In 1896.
TOWNSHEND ASSIGNED TO ISLAND IN MARMORA
LONDON. May 23, Tho American Embassy at Constantinople has sent word
of tho disposition of tho British forces captured by tho Turks at Kut-el-Amara. A
British official statement says: "Ambassador Page states that the American Embassy
at Constantlnoplohas been Informed by tho Ottoman Government that General Town
Mhend (who was In command at Kut-el-Amara) and his staff will bo brought to Con
stantlnoplo and probably will bo assigned to tho Island of Prlnklpo, In the Sea of
Marmora, whero they will bo allowed full liberty. Most of the officers ana men are
EtUl at Kut and Bagdad. Somo will be sent to Damascus."
4
CLAY COMPROMISE HEARING MAY BE HAD FRIDAY
The public hearing on tho question, of compromising the city's suit against Henry
Clay and ohp It. Wiggins & Co. for $40,000 will probably bo held next Friday, accord
ing to Select Councilman J. Ji Contoy, chairman of Councils' Law Committee. Mr,
Conroy Is communicating with members of the committee for the purpose of select
ing a date.
MAUNA LOA VOLCANO AGAIN IN ERUPTION
HONOLULU, May 23, Maura Loa volcano, which was In eruption last week,
Is active again. A flood of lava, which burst forth 'Sunday night at an elevation ot
7000 feet, Is flowing down the mountainside, traveling southwest at the rate of about
one mile an hour. The flood of lava has divided, following two channels. The glow
Illuminates the entire landscape at night. Newspapers can be read by Its light
many miles away. Tho course taken by the layn is that followed by the last
eruption about nlno years ago.
SEATS AT $250 FOR REPUBLICAN CONVENTION
CHICAGO, May 23. The demand for Republican Convention tickets has become
so great today that the price for a single season seat has advanced to $250, Indications
are tho convention will be one of the nolsest and most exciting n the history of tho
parly. Fred W, Upham, chairman of the local Committee on Arrangements, was
informed yesterday that plans have been mode to bring more than one hundced bands
and fifty glee and marching clubs to Chicago convention week.
GERMANY HEARS OF PLAN FOR AN ARMISTICE
AMSTERDAM, May 23. The Munich Neuesto Nachrlchten, organ of the Krupps.
publishes a wireless dispatch from Madrid which says that negotiations are In prog
ress there "between the Pope and King Alfonso and the Pope and President Wilson
for tho purpose of arranging for an armistice among the belllgcient nations, with the
object of discussing peace terms."
GERMANS SEND DUTCH CONSUL TO PRISON
AMSTERDAM, May 23. The Tijd announces that the Germans have condemned
tho Dutch Consul ut Dlnant, Belgium, W. van Rljckovorsel. to Imprisonment for 10
years at hard labor. All attempts to reduce the sentence, adds the paper, have failed.
The nature of the charges, against the Consul has not thua far been disclosed.
RUSSIAN SUBMARINES HARASS GERMANS IN BALTIC
LONDON, May 23. Russian submarines continue to harass 'German shipping
In the JJaHlc. Tfa Copenhagen PoUtlken says the steamship Worms, of 4428 tons,
owned In Hamburg, Is believed the latest victim. The Worms left Sweden several
'days ago and has not reached Germany. It U also reported that the Swedish steam
ship Rosalind, 877 tons, strucjc a mine near piocsnoim sunaay nignt ana sank. The
crew vaa saved.
II ' . I I I I IL
ATHENS REPORTS SEVERE EARTHQUAKE SHOCK
ATHENS, May 3?. A severe earthquake shock was, felt hra shortly befora
JBdulsbt , . , . : h,
Disclosures of Illegal practices under
lying Vnro political control In South Phila
delphia which will startle the State aro
promised In a statement made today by
United. States Senator Botes Penrose.
Tho announcement was accompanied by
a declaration that frauds unearthed aa tho
result of tho7 election In tho First Con
gressional District would bo exposed and
that tho light upon Vara control would be
carried lntd the next Congress.
According to, the .Senator, the 'VTVtrf'
fluonco In that section of tho, city Is based
upon practices that will not bo tolerated by
decent Republicans of tho State.
In elaboration of his startling declaration.
Senator Penrose let It be known at Wash
ington thla aftornoon that he was In posses
sion of considerable data which could fur
nish tho basts of legal proceedings against
tho Varcs nnd their followers. He did not
supply details, but said hch ad affidavits
that applied to Instances of high-handed
methods and Illegal practices. Ho prom
ised that tho request of this preliminary
evldenco 'uoulcl bo legal proceedings which
would lift the lid and reveal a condition
that would shock all good citizens of Penn
sylvania. Incidentally, tho Senator took occasion
to reply to ,tlio fiction of the Brumbaugh
forces,, who, In tho 16th District, a Penrose
bailiwick, havo threatened a similar legal
Investigation of election methods.
The Senator promises a turning on the '
light that will noonly dispose of his oppo
nents' charges, but wjll place -those an
tagonists beforeithe people as defendants to
criminal charges.
WILL AIR "DOWNTOWN,"
Senator Penrose qualified his assertions
to the extent of admitting that thus far
his examination of election affairs In the
district now represented by Congressman
Vare had been merely cursory, but even this
partial survey, he declared, warranted him
In making the statement that frauds In the
First Congressional District would be aired
In the next Congress, If these Irregularities
proved as widespread as they now appeared
to him.
Of the engagement of James Scarlet to
Investigate the alleged frauds In the 16th
idlstrlct the Senator paid this tribute to his
adversaries:
SENATOR WELCOMES PROBB.
"As far aa I am concerned, I welcome
any investigation ot the election In Penn
sylvania, not only In connection with th
election of delegates but ot the nomination
of Congressmen and other officers."
Then launching Into his charges against
the Vares and their political methods In
South Philadelphia, the Senator proceeded:
"I am not Informed ot the violation of
the law anywhere In Pennsylvania, except
In the 1st District In that district a, great
deal of data has been accumulated, in the
form of aflldavits of high-handed methods
and illegal practices, which will be promptly
followed up and made the basis of legal
proceedings."
Launching further Into the subject, th
Senator said;
"I have been away for nearly a week,
but I expect to look further into thesa
matters at the end of the week,
"The Stato will be Btartled by the publican
tion ot the facts In South Philadelphia.
The Vara Influence In that section of ttw
city Is based on practices which will not ba
tolerated by decent Republicans of ths
State."
Senator Penrose, declined to go further -into
the details ot his Information or the
form In which his threatened legal action
would be taken beyond the Intimation that
the floor of the next Congress would b
one of the battlegrounds.
Of the result of the balloting last Tues
day for delegates-at-large to the Republican
National Convention ha Bald:
"The latest information Indicates that
we hae elected all our delegates-ut-large
with the possible exception that Aaron and
Brumbaugh may have won. The A B C's
profited more from the Initial letter of their
names and the consequtnt position on the.
ballot than by any advantage ot ntstw
manshtp or popularity '
State Senator 13- H. Vare, when Senator
Penrose's statement was called to his at
tention, refused to treat H seriously H.
made no qomment beyond saying
"The Statement Is so far from the, truth,
that X wouldn't dignify It by niaklnt r
aswer to it It Is merely another one of
those 'Penrose bluffs.1
Berlin Meat Ration, Half Poun4
LONDON May 2 Tha Brlln Itol
AtiMiger announces tot tho Berlin Mkr-
a-rf. rt tl nfttitt r. ,v,Js TT.fS
V"f w "W" " IMWIV 3J JLifrl
iytw wwf fwuiiLM hi mm fetuf j
