wmniXI'
"Mr. Jiggs"
The Irrepressible Jiggs, Has His
Troubles This Morning
Hidimoitd (fiitieS-jBi
Fox s Comics
In The Times-Dispatch. Amuse
Young and Old Every Day
66th YEAR
VOI.l/'M 10 06
M'MIIKIl n:?
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, MAY 2:?,, 1916 ?TWELVE PAGES
S"KU ?UNSETTLED' PRICE, TWO CENTS.
Position Stormed and Cap
tured by Germans on
February 25.
MANY FUTILE ATTEMPTS
SINCE TO DRIVE THEM OUT
Also Forced From Positions
South of Hill 287 and West
of Le Mort Homme. j
TTCITONK ALSO CLAIM GAINS
Great Offensive of Austrian* Against
Italians in Southern Tyrol
Continues.
Hard fighting is still ;n progress he- j
tween the French and the Germans in;
the rrvJon of Verdun, the Germans and
"riijsh around [.a Hhmcp and the Aus
trian* and Italians !n the Tyrol.
In the reirion of Verdun both t >1 ??
I' rtnrh a ml Genua rts claim suewsf? for
their arms at various points. An in
teresting point In the l:,(i;nt French
"inriai communication i:: tIt?? statement
that the French have penetrated Fort
I'ouaurnont. north of Verdun. which 'he
'?'"nani stormed and captured on Feb
ruary 2f?. four days after the commence
'tient of the assault on Verdun, and
ftom which all attempts to drive, t'neni
?>ut proved" futile.
Th" (Jernians. however. still hold the
ttorthern portion of Fort Douaumnnt
To the northwest of Verdun the French
have force<l out the 'lermaiis from posi
tions south of hill No '.'ST and west of
I.e Mort Homme.
Merlin. on the other hand, says the
Germans to the northwest of Verdun
stormed th<- eastern spurs of lull No.
3M and held th?-*ii against repeated
counteratta< k>. In tl.is fighting the
Frep.-h arc declared to have b st
heavily in men, hilled or wounded Ad
mission Is made in the Merlin report of;
th" capture t,\ the Fret h of .1 quarry
south of Hau>lroil'..|it northeast of Wr
iluti
IIKiVi l\ mi:.\
si i> i:hi:i> in iiiutimi
es in tiien were suffered
bv the British when the <?crtnans tC" V
the trenches from over .? front about
a mile and a quarter near ?"?ivenchy-en
<ioehelle and In counterattacks to re
train them, according to Berlin.
The great offensive of the Austrian*
iiiratnst the Italian? in Southern Tyrol
continues unabated, and at several
points the Austrian* seem gradually to
I.e throwtnc bach the Italians toward
their own territoiy. To the southeast
of Trent, on the l.avarone plateau,
Vienna says the Italians have been dls
l"dK?d from all their positions, and
adds that the Austrian."- ba\e captured
Fltna, Mandriolo and the height iin-j
mediately west .f the frontier 'rom j
the summit as f.<r as the Asta'-li <
? Astioo> Valley.
The Austrisns. for their offensive,
according to Home advices, have been)
heavily re-enforc?: in men and guns.
Since the beginning of the offensive, j
Vienna asserts, inori' than 24.001 men
have been taken prisoner, and 172:
cannon have been captured bv the Aus-1
t rta iijt.
I
KHKNCH RKIM I.SF. VTT.U KS
OF KKHM.W IXFAXTItV
PARIS, May 22.?French grenadiers
occupied several blockhouses in Avo
court wood on the Verdun front in
the course of severe fighting last night.
The struggle west of Dead Man's
Hill was terrific. The War Office state
ment of this nfternoon says that the
attacks of German Infantry wer? re
pulsed.
The blockhouses in Avocourt wood
were abandoned by the Germans.
Kast of the Meuse, Infantry fighting '
(' occurred at the Haudromnnt quarries '
captured yesterday by the French. I
The Germans attacked those positions i
and. the statement asserts, were re
Dulsed with heavy loss.
The statement follows:
"South of I3erry-au-Bao French
forces exploded two mines with suc
cess at hill 108.
"In the Champagne district, a gas
attack by the Germans was without
result. This emission of gas was in
the zone between the road fjom Souain
to Somnie-Py, and tho road from
Sainte Iliiaire to Saint Souplet. No
sooner had the cloud of gas started
than an unexpected turn in the direc*
tion of the wind drove it back upon
the trenches of thft enemy.
"On the left bank of the River Meuse |
infantry fighting continued last night. I
In the wood of Avocourt our grena- i
?tiers secured some advantages, und
occupied several blockhouses evacu- J
ated by tho enemy.
"In the region west of Dead Man's
Hill the fighting has been particularly 1
ferocious. Several tentative attacks
made by the enemy to further their .
progress have been checked by our cur- !
tains of tire and by the activity of our |
machine guns. A vigorous attack by j
1 our troops made it possible for us to !
recapture a portion of tho ground lost
during the night of May 20-21.
?On the right hank of the Meuse, the
Germans have delivered repeated coun
terattacks upon the positions at tho
Siiiudromont quarry, captured hy the
French yesterday. Kach ( of these ad
( vanco movements was checked by our
curtain of tire, and cost the Germans
heavy losses. In the outskirts of the
village of Vaux a small operation exe
cuted thla morning put us In possession
of a German trench. At Eparges, sev
eral German mines have been exploded,
but without causing damage to the
French position.
( "In the region of Verdun, French
aviators have attacked a number of
^ captive German balloons. Six of these
balloons were sont down on fire. In
an aerial engagement one of our pilots
CCoatlauod on Sccond I'age.)
Elevation Contest
Won by Carlstrom
Newport Alews Atiialor Reaches ,
Altitude of 14,200 Feet at j
Sheepshead Bay.
? ?
NEW VOHK, X. V.. May 22.?Victor j
('nriHtrom, Newport News aviator, to-!
(Jay won the elevation contest at tho j
preparedness tournament at Sheepshead ?
I lay by reaching an altitude of 14.100 j
fee? Miss Ruth Law was second, j
ascending 11,500 feet, and setting a new'
record for women av|a.tors.
Declaring that the "silent" sham
battle staged on Sunday by the Ne?v
Vork City guard at Sheepshead Hay
Speedway violated the Sunday observ
ance law, the Kings County Sunday
< ?hservance Association to-day began
court proceedings in the Coney Island
court against those directing the mili
tary tournament and obtained seven
summonses against oflicials and em
ployees of the speedway corporation.
Tho association also will proceed,
it was said, against Major-General
O'Kyan, head of the State militia, hold
ing that his order banning the firing
of guns during lie exhibition battle
did not excuse hitti front blame.
GEN. ARTHUR GEORGEI DEAD
Was <nm iiiu nrirr-l ?-< 'Ji irf of llun
isnrlnn Army Dnrlnt; Wnr of
l.llirrnt Ion.
l,UNI>OX, .May ?2.?The death at
Budapest yesterday of General Arthur
George! is reported in a f'entral News
dispatch from Amsterdam. General
? Jeorgel was commander-in-chief of the
Hungarian army during the War of
Liberation H<* was also prominent as
a chemist.
General G.*orge! was ninety-eight
years old. He came of a Saxon noble
family, and on the outbreak of the
revolutionary war of JS4S he offered
his sword to the Hungarian govern
ment. receiving a commission as cap
tain. He won a number of successes
against the Austrians, and was made
fommander-in-' biff He whs deposed
i temporarily oti account of ordering a
j retreat against the advice of Kossuth,
but subsequently was reinstated On
Kossuth's resignation as dictator,
when Russia intervened on the side of
Austria, Georgei became dictator, and
eventually surrendered to the Russians
After being released he retired from
public life, and for many years had
been living nt retreat.
BRANDT ATTEMPTS SUICIDE
??e?T?-tnrj -Trrn?iir-#-r of flip \mcrl. itn
Surety Society nt I'olm of Denflt
I'roin Knife \\ounrifc.
(Special to The Tinies- Dispatch.]
NKW Y?tRK. May 22.?Suffering from
eleven knife wounds in the abdomen.
William A Brandt. secretary-treasurer
of the American Surety Company, is at
point of death in the Hudson Hospital.
He is under technical arrest for at
tempting suicide
?Mr. I,randt was found thi.? afternoon
;>n the floor of a retiring room of the
Hudson Terminal Building. He had
-tabbed himself repeatedly with a five
inch blade. Physicians at the hospital
to which he was taken expressed the
belief that vital organs had been
pierced
Vice-President fj. Pruwn to-night
declared that Mr Brandt'?- accounts are'
in perfect shape. The only cause he
could assign for the attempt at suicide
was nervousness, from which Mr.
Brandt has been suffering for several I
months.
He is married, but has no children. I
lie is fifty-six years old.
Mr. Brandt has been In the service
of the Surety Company for the last
thirty years.
COLONEL PHILLIPS ENDS LIFE
I". S. A. Medical Corp* Officer* Shoots'
Himself Through Heart While
I'ntlenf In Hospital.
{Special to The Times-Dispatch.]
WASHINGTON. May 22.?C o 1 o n el !
?John Ti. Phillips. United States Army.!
Medical Corps, formerly in charge of'
Walter Reed Army General Hospital.'
committed suicide to-day by shooting
himself through the heart. Colonel
Phillips was a patient in the hospital.
A short time later Lieutenant Luther
M. Ferguson. United States Army. Medi
cal t'orps, member of the surgical staff
of the hospital, was thrown against
the wall of the hospital stables hv a
horse he had just mounted. His skull i
was fractured, and he died soon after-'
wards.
Colonel Phillips's body was found in,
n ravine near the hospital. He was i
rtfty-seven years old and a native nfi
North Carolina. He leaves a widow and i
daughter.
Lieutenant Ferguson was a native of;
Massachusetts. He was married, but I
had no children.
COME TO GET LINCOLN
Scotlnnd Ynrd Officer* Will Take Self- .
Confessed ftermnn Spy Duck fo
England,
NEW VORK, May 22.?Chief In
spector Alfred Ward and an assistant
from Scotland Yard arrived from Eng
land to-day on board the Anchor Lino
steamship Cameronia from Liverpool
to take back to England the self
confessed German spy and former
member of the British Parliament,
Ignatius T. T. Lincoln.
Lincoln is wanted in England to
answer a charge of forgery. His ex
tradition was ordered by the Supreme
Court of the United States, after Lin
coln appealed to that court on a writ
of habeas corpus, alleging thnt the
real purposo of his extradition was lo
try him as a spy in England.
Lincoln was first arrested here in
August last year, but escaped from
Jail in the following November, and
was at liberty until February last,
when he was rearrested.
1st" face issue
Established Practice Requires |
State Convention to Elect
National Committeeman.
ELLYSON MAKES STATEMENT
Sees No Reason to Withdraw
Announcement That He Will
Not Stand for Re-Election.
To the voluminous literature that !
; has sprung up about the Glass-James |
J controversy?an interestinn chapter of
. which deals with tiie suggestion that'
| the Itoanoke convention may avoid a j
? vote on the issue altogether, by shift-|
| ing the selection of the national mm -
J mitteoman to the State delegation to
j St. Louis?Lieutenant-Governor Klly-j
I son yesterday added a highly interest
; ir.p statement of his own.
"I."iitil twenty years nun it. was the
; custom of the State delegates to the
? national convention to elect the Vir
J ginia member of the National Demo
i cratic Committee. but since that time
: the State convention has elected the
national committeeman 1 have during
all these years had the honor to repre
; sent Virginia on the National Demo
1 cratic Committee, and I have been
elected by the Stale convention, being
nominated on the lloor and elected by
! the whole body."
It was erroneously reported yester
day that it has been the practice of
the State convention in recent years
j merely to express their preference for
' national committeeman, and that this j
: preference, in no way binding, was ob- j
! served by the delegates to the na-i
tional convention who actually nom
inated the man thus chosen.
\vo.\?r sui:j.\ k issi ??:
AT lt()A\(IKK COWKXTIOX
, Such was precisely not the case.
For twenty years the State Democratic,
Convention has not only nominated Mr
Kllyson for the national committee, but
| actually elected him National Com- 1
; mitteeman Kllyson?for he still holds
| that office?went to the national con- '
vr-ntions with the credentials of the!
State convention, and not as a nom
i ince of the State delegation. The State
delegation during that whole period,
.never was called upon ti> affirm the;
| convention's choice by supplementary i
action of any kind.
This statement of the situation with'
| reference to the method of electing
the national committeeman, clearly de- '?
| ?<-ribe<l yesterday by the person who!
j "'ill holds that office, sets at rest the.
{particular rumor that the troublesome'
?Class-James issue stands a chance of!
, being entirely shelved at Itoanoke by
j'.lie surprisingly simple expedient of,
ignoring it altogether am] shifting tlie
burden to the twelve men who will li?!
selected to represent the State at St.
LoUiS.
Mr. Kllyson a!*o removed the props
from under another device that has)
been invented for averting the onrush-j
ing clash of the clans. It was sug-!
nested that Mr. Kllyson ttsny be pre
| vailed upon to withdraw his statement
i of six months ago. in which lit att-j
j nounced that he would r.ot be a candi-!
j date for re-election to the national com-i
j mittee. All factions would then unito'
I in re-electing the incumbent, and the <
[convention could then ignore both
I Carter Glass and It ore r A. .fames, leav- ;
| ing the State Democracy unembittered '
by an Intrapattv tight.
Mil. i:i,I,VSO.\ Wild, NOT
IIKCDMSIDKH HKSM.N ATIO.V '
"I have no intention of modifying:
my announcement, in which I said that!
I would not be a candidate for re-elec-j
tion to the national committee," said;
Mr. Kllyson yesterday. "1 have not!
been approached either directly or in- i
directly with any request of this sort, j
I have myself not taken any part in
the rivalry between Mr. Glass and Mr. I
James, and my action in this matter!
is, of course, without reference to this
issue."
Other expedients have been suggested
for avoiding a vote on the Glass-James i
it-sue. Que of these is a triangular i
arrangement, which would retain Klly-j
son as national committeeman, hand the!
chairmanship of the State Democratic j
Committee, now held by Mr. Kllyson. to
Mr. .lames, and conciliate Mr. Glass by I
electing him delegate at large to th?i'
St. Louis convention. Such an adjust-'
ment is interesting from an acadetnio
point of view, but in the last degree)
unlikely.
Out of the penumbra of speculation j
and conjecture that envelops the con- ;
test for the national committee a little j
more than one week from the State J
convention, a few things stand out now
as sufficiently clear to lie assumed as !
facts. Categorically listed, they rust ?
like this:
Carter Glass, of Lynchburg, will not
accept election as delegate at large to
St. Louis in lieu of the honor of being
elected national committeeman He1
has substantially said so in an official
statement.
WITHDRAWAL OF JAMKM
HKLD TO II10 I M.tlvF.I.Y
Korer A. .lames, of Danville, has no
intention, for the present at least, of |
withdrawing from the race. "My name '
will be presented to the Itoanoke con- j
vention, and I ask the support of all
Democrats jvlio feel that my party
services warrant me in now seeking
this very great honor," he said on
May t, in a statement to The Times
Dispatch.
National Committeeman Kllyson,
whose successor both Mr. Glass and
Mr. James would like to be, sees no
reason for modifying hifi decision not
to .offer for the honor at next week's
convention. He has a gubernatorial
fight on his hands, is still chairman
of the State Democratic Committee, and
would perhaps t'.nd it extremely em
barrassing to announce himself again
as a candidate for an office which ho
voluntarily relinquished, and to secure
which two prominent Democrats have
for weeks prosecuted active campaigns.
(Continued on Fifth rajjo.)"
?
Wilson Completes Note Insisting
That Interference With Ship
ping Must Stop.
TO BE SENT FORWARD TO-DAY
Inconvenience and Loss Result
ing From Detention of Mails
Chief Complaint.
I WASHINGTON. May 22.?President
Wilson to-night completed .1 note
i-iporously riiiPwitiK the protest of the
United States to Oroat Britain jigitinst
.nterf?;rfcn< e with American shipping.
I it Is expected to go forward to-morrow.
Secretary Dansing and legal experts
at the State Department made the
original drift of the note, and the
President revised Its phraseology. It
is made up largely of legal arguments
! to meet the contentions of Great Brit
ain In the memorandum concurred in
by France presented to the State De
partment several weeks ago. 1 he
United States takes the position that
' practices of interference have been
used, and that the American govern
ment must now insist more emphati
| rally that they cease.
X . S. MAII'S St'HMITTKD
TO I.OIAI, CBSSOnSHIP
State Department oflicials consider
I the chief -weakness of the position of
Oreat Britain is her policy of taking
neutral mail vessels into Hrilish juris*
diction and submitting them to local
j censorship regulations. It is under
i stood that it is on this point that the.
renewed protest is chiefly based.
The British memorandum avoided
this phase of the question. Rapid
transmission was promised to "true,
correspondence," but the riirht to seize
contraband sent In the mails was main
tained.
The Hague Convention of ll?0". the
United States contends, guarantees the
Inviolability of postal correspondence,
and the new note again points to the
inconveniences and actual money loss
resulting from the oontlnuanre of the
British policy of taking neutral mail
vessels into Rrltish ports, and there
examining and detaining the mails. A
mass of evidence has been collected
showing the effects 011 American busi
ness of the British policy.
MARINE PATROL IN CHARGE
? upert011 Distribute* l.iiiiiliiig Force to
jinny Points in Dominican
lte|tti)dle.
WASHINGTON". D. C, May 22.?Rear-j
Admiral Cnperion. at Santo Domingo,
is taking stej>s to distribute his land
ing force of American marines to va
rious points in the little republic, and
before they are withdrawn some ar
rangements probably will 1>?- eflfcoted I
through which American oflicers will
be placed ir. charge of the native con
stabulary.
The broadening out of the marine pa
trol, oflicials indicated to-d:*v is a step
preliminary to establishment of a po
licing system similar to that recently
inaugurated in Hai'i, under the new
Haitlen treaty
!t was made clear at the Stale i'e
partment to.day that there w.is no
intention <>f recognizing as valid the
election of Federico H. Carvajal. chosen
Provisional President of Santo I>o
mingo. last week by the Dominican
Congress.
Minister Russell reported that En
rique Henrlquez, former Foreign Min
ister. -was on his way to Washington
to urge Carvajal's recognition. The
department holds that the impeach
ment of President .1 iminez was only a
political coup, and already has in
formed the Dominican Congress that
the proceeding cannot be recognized as;
It gal. j
ALLEGES DISCRIMINATION
.llnurlce Simmon* Accuse* t'nptnln of
V i- iv York flutter j- With Preju
dice Agiiiiint Jew*.
I Special to The Times-Dispatch j
N*K\V VORK. N*. Y? May 22.?Alleg
ing discrimination against prospective
New York National (iuard recruits of
the Jewish faith. Maurice Simmons.'
former commander-in-chief of the Unit
ed Spanish War Veterans, announced
to-day he had filed charges with Gov
ernor Whitman against Captain 11. B. 1
Sullivan, commander of Battery D, Sec
ond Field Artillery.
The charges are based on an affidavit
by Max J. Klein,-in which Klein de
poses that Sullivan, at the time the
battery was advertising for recruits,
informed both himself and his brother
that there were no vacancies, and that j
Sullivan admitted he was prejudiced
against Jews.
WAR~EXHIBITS ARRIVE
Ilonty Captured From (icrmntiK l?r
French to lie Seen In New ^ ??rk ,
lluzunr.
NRW YORK. May 22.?The unusual,
sight of a foreign steamship coining
Into port with her decks loaded with
boxes and cases containing aeroplanes,
hydroaeroplanes, cannon and other war
appliances was witnessed here to-day
with the arrival of the French T^lne
steamship Lafayette from Bordeaux.
Tho war equipment, listed on the
ship's manifests as weighing fifty tons
and having a value of $200,000, belongs
to the French government, and the
greater part of it Is booty captured
from the Germans. It has been loaned
by France to tho exhibit committee of
ft bazaar to be held next month by
friends of tho entente powers to raise
funds for relief work. The exhibits
wero.sent here In charge of tho Mar
quis of Polificac.
Irish "Joan of Arc"
Countess Markieviez at work among the poor in Dublin. The countess
was oiip. of tlie most prominent figures of the short-lived Irish rebellion,
t She, with others of the rioters, was captured and sentenced to death, but|
: clemency was shown her and the decree was changed to life imprisonment.
IS SHOT THROUGH WIG
" BATTLE
Marcus c. Kaufman, Sixteen Years
Old, in Precarious Condition
in Hospital.
( liVDK rM)KKWOOI> AHHKSTKD
Fight Occurs at First and Franklin
Streets?Prisoner Caught Hiding
in Garage After Swift Chase by
Polieemaii.
Marcus C. Kaufman, sixteen years old,
of .*"<*. North Fourth Street, was shot
through.the,.Jj^O-in .a,jja.ns; fight which
occurred at First anil Franklin Streets,
th'e heart of Richmond's residential
section, about 1ft o'clock last night by
another boy. said to hav? been Clyde
Underwood, seventeen, 112 1-2 South
Pine Street. Policeman Hooker, on
fixed post at First and Uroad Streets,
heard the shots. Ho ran to the corner
in time to catch Kaufman as h^ sank
to the ground.
I,earning that Underwood ??s one of
those who had tired. Hooker directed
that the ambulance be called to Kauf
man and at once sped after the. fleeing
Underwood and bis companions. The
olTi'-er overto -k and captured Under
, wood at Jefferson and <*ary Streets.
Kaufman, who is the sou of Samuel
i Kaufman, was rendered emergency'
treatment b> Ambulance Surgeon
Fletcher, who removed him to tho
Johnston-Willis Hospital. Early this
morning it -was said that Kaufman's
condition was serious, but that It would
be at least twelve hours before sur
geons would be able to tell the exact
nature of the wound. The ball entered
his head just above the right eye.
I"XDLCltWOO O HAS It lXOItD;
NOW I XI>KIt l'ltOIt ATIOX
Underwood, who confessed to shoot- j
ing at Kaufman and bis gang and in-!
formed Hooker where he could find his
Pistol, which he had thrown away as
he ran, was sen: to the Second Precinct
Station. Underwood haj a police record.
He has been arrested several times on
various charges, and is even now under
probation on u charge of assaulting a
boy near Fourth and Leigh Streets.
The shooting was the culmination of
a street fight, in which the "Fourth '
Street gang" and the "Oregon Hill
gang" participated a short time ago.
This fipht took place in Fourth Street,
and the "Oregon Hill gang" is said to
have been worsted.
Last night, declaring* they would
"get even," they returned to the
"Fourth Street gang's" "corner" to
await their return from a near-by pic
ture theater. Kaufman and h!ft friends |
appeared and were attacked immediate
ly. This first attack occurred near
Third and Grace Streets, the "Oregon
Hill gang" retreating before the
"Fourth Street gang" to the mouth of
the alley between Grace and Franklin
Streets, on First Street.
(i \X<; TAKKS TO l'l,l<;HT
WII K\ K A I l\M.\ \ KAI.I.S
As Kaufman and his friends came i
out of the alley some one in the other
party fired a shot. Two otlur shots
followed in quick succession, and, at I
the third report, Kaufman staggered, j
sinking slowly to the ground. His 1
friends gathered around him, while the'
boys in the other gang sought safety in
immediate flight. |
Policeman Hooker heard tho first '
shot, but was unable to locate it defi- !
nitely. He saw the flashes which fol-I
lowed the other shots, and at once1
sped toward them. Starting when hoi
saw the soconrl flash. Hooker was able |
to reach tho scene as Kaufman fell.
From hurriedly given statements the
officer learned that Underwood had
been seen to shoot a pistol. He learned
^roiTtl77ued~on~Th IrdPageT)
'OUTLINES STATE'S CASE
INTRIAL OFDP.1ITE
District Attorney Swnnn Describes i
Circumstances Leading I'p to i
Killing of Fnther-in-l/aw.
JURY IS QUK 'KIjV t'HOSKX
Prisoner Apparently us In moved as
.Must Disinterested Spectator?He
Is Charged With Administering
Poison and Chloroform to Nostrils. 1
Poison ami Applying Chloroform.
NEW VOItK. May "2.?Dr. Arthur
?Warren "Waite, the young dentist and
1 tennis player, who was placed on trial
j lr.-tl.iy before .Justice Sheam and a jury
I In the criminal branch of the Supreme
Court. charged with the murder of his
wealthy father-in-law, .inhn K. l*eek, of
| Grand Rapids. Mich., not only admin-'
istered deadly disease serins ami poison
: to his victim, but applied chloroform
to his nostrils until he died, ii was:
i alleged by District Attorney lOdward '
, Swnnn in his opening address for the
I State.
The trial which began shortly after
; 10 o'clock this morning, moved rapidly.
A Jury was selected in less than three
| hours, and the district attorney con-'
j Minted only half an hour in his formal
! presentation of the State's ease. Moan
i time. Wnite, who was neatly dressed In
a blue suit and sat by his counsel,
appeared as much unmoved as the most
disinterested spectator in the court
room.
| KKATfltH is TKSTI.MOW
OF 1)11. AI.HKKTIS \. .tlOOltn
Aside from the address of the district
j attorney, in which he recited Walte'si
[life history and gave a complete ro-1
sunie of the circumstances leading up
to the crime which Waite already has;
j confessed, the outstanding featuro of
, trial to-day was the testimony of
j Dr. Albertus Adair .Moore. Walt?, the;
witness declared, admitted to hiin he i
i had purchased arsenic for his seventy- |
two-year-old father-in-law "because!
.the old gentleman didn't want to live"!
previously. When suspicion was first i
i directed to Waite. Dr. Moore said, the
accused dentist bad telephoned to him
and asked him if he c Dr. Moore) j
thought they could hold him (Waite)'
for the death of Mr. Peck because a
nurse had not been engaged to attend
i he aged victim.
"Waite asked me." said Dr. Moore. ,
"if arsenic administered before death
would show In an autopsy, as distin
guished i roin the same poison when
used in embalming fluid."
The witness said he replied that (he
poison would be discernible in the
brain if administered before death.
Waite's counsel intimated that they
would rely entirely upon a plea of
insanity to save their client from the
electric chair, and announced to-night
that one or more alienists would !,??
called by them.
Neither Mrs. Clara Louis- lv. k Waite,
wife of the prisoner, nor .Mrs. Margaret
Morton, his companion in a "studio"'
here, were present at the trial to-day.
Moth, however, will testify against
\\ aite, the district attorney announced.
RUSSIAN SUBMARINES BUSY
' onthiue to Ifnru*.* t.erinau .shipping
In Hit 11 If??'I'lit* \\ iiriiis llelteveil to
lie l.utcxl Victim.
LONDON', .May -J2?Uussian subma
rines continue to harass (Serman ship
ping in the llaltic. An l-Jxcbange Tele
graph dispatch from Copenhagen quotes
the I'olitiken as saying the German
steamship Worms, 1.4 "S tons gross, and :
owned in Hamburg, is believed to have;
been one of the latest victims. The
Worms left Sweden several days ago
and has not reached Germany.
It Is also reported that the Swedish
steamship Rosalind, S77 tons gross, ?
struck a mine near Stockholm last
night and sank. The crew was saved j
l*. lb Q.? morning train for Norfolk nud
Olil Point will on ami after SuikIhv, Muy
28, leave Itu-hmom) 8:30 A. M Inntea.l of
3 o'clock. Now train, "Cincinnati Special."
will leave Ulchmond 7 V. M. on anil after
SuudAf, Si.
ft
FLYING COLUMNS
GIVE UP CHASE OF
BIG BEND RAIDERS
Cavalry Under Langhome
and Sibley Returns to
American Soil.
STRATEGICAL REASONS
DICTATE RETIREMENT
Expedition, in Mexico for Ten
Days. Fails to Wipe Out Main
Body of Marauders.
Forn cAPTrnRi); two wounded
Economic Situation Crave, With r>?
Facto Government Facing
Serious Plight.
MARATUO.V. TRX.. May 22?X'lf fly
Inn columns of iho Kicl'ith and Four
teenth Cavalry, detailed by Major
Genera I Funston to arivo chain to the
I?an<1 it raiders of Glenn Sprlntrs and
ISoipiiilas. have returned to American
sOil near Boi|uillas.
< olonel Sibley, commander .?f ihe px
pedltion. lorded tli? Bin Grande with
the two troops of the Fourteenth late
yesterday afternoon. Major Langhorne,
at the head of Troops A and B of the
Kiirhth, followed shortly after.
The expedition was in Mexico Just
ten days, it failed to capture or wipe
out the main body of the Bit? Fiend
marauders, but made prisoners of four
of the bandits and left behind, two
others desperately wounded. In addi
tion. it rescued Jesse Deemer. Boquil
las storekeeper, and Monroe Payne, a
neero. kidnaped by the Mexicans.
I he return of the expedition was im
perative for strategical reasons. It had,
penetrated so far into the interior with-'
out the semblance of a line of com
munication that It was not prepared
for possible eventualities. With no
hope of re-enforcements, which had
been declared unavailable, it was de
clared Impossible for it to continue.
Then, too. one of the main objects of
it* expedition had been accomplished
in the release of Deemer and l'ayne.
\k\vs iti:.\crii-:s iiahathon
DAY AFTER Til BY n ETURN
News of the return of Colonel Sib
ley and Major Langhome reached Mara
thon almost a day after it had been
safely aoeompllsliod.'" ~
After the release of Deemer and
l'ayne last week, some ninety miles
from noquillas. Major Langhorne
pushed on in pursuit of the fleeing
bandits, l'art of his command, under
Lieutenant Cramer, engaged a small
blind of the raiders, capturing six, of
whom two were wounded. It soon grew
apparent, however, that there was no
hope for waylaying the majority of tho
raiders, as they bad tplit up and fled.
It was then decided to turn back.
In the meantime. Colonel Sibley, well
in the rear, is supposed to have re
ceived reports that a force of Yaqul
Indians was gettintr dangerously near
to the advanced detachment. Whether
they were well founded is not known,
but Colonel Sibley marched forward,
and probably Joined Major Latighorne
at F.I i'ino. From there, it is reported,
they proceeded in company to the bor
der, making the 100 miles intervening
between CI Pino and BoqulUas In threo
days.
Colonel Sibley and Major Langhornd
now are reported resting their com-*
mands in camp at Boquillas whild
awaiting further orders.
Tho expedition traveled ten days irj
an unknown country over bad roadt|
under a hot sun and with water scarce*
It returned intact.
ECONOMIC'' SITUATION
IS EXTREMELY GRAVTJ
WASHINGTON'. D. C? May 22.?The
economic situation in Mexico is ex
tremely grave, according to official dis
patcher to-day to tho State Depart
ment. With the monetary problem al
ready acute, tho food shortage in
Mexico City and vicinity continuing
without prospect of any immediate re
lief and with the labor strike extend
ing o\er virtually all the Mexican
railway lines, the de facto government
is pictured as facing a serious pll?ht.
First-hand reports as to the situa
tion in Northern Mexico will reach the
department to-morrow. Consul Let
cher. from Chihuahua City, is en routo
to Washington, probably bringing with
him a synopsis of tho reports of live
other consuls, recently ordered to the
border to talk o\er conditions with
military officials there
It was stated officially that whilo
Mr Letcher would make his report on
conditions in Mexico, that was not the
-ole purpose of his trip. It was ex
pected he was ordered here that routine
matters might be taken up with hlxn,
hut no inkling of their nature was
given out.
The department to-day received fur
ther advices from Special Agent
Co diners, at Mexico City, telling of the
new note being prepared by the do
facto government, but throwing no
liuht on its purport.
ACTIONS or CAUIIAV/.A
?;OVER\ME.\T .1IOIIE Fit IK.>01, Y
While reports as to the domestic
situation of the Carranza government
are gloomy, the actions of the govern
ment towards she United States have
been described as more friendly since
the border conference of Generals
Scott and ?>bregon. It Is possible this
will be reflected In the new note, al
though some officials think it probable
that a new request for withdrawal of
the American expeditionary forces will
be included with what other proposals
General Carranza has to make.
Since the State Departments repre
sentations as to the renewed raiding
in the nig Bend country of Texas have
not been answered, the note Is ex
pected to go into that Bubjeet. Of
ficials here, including Secretary Baker,
say the military conference oa lb*
I
