THE WEATHER
'ORECAST.
nn.
Showers to-dfjjfct pre
fair to-mor-winds.
row: 'frefB
Highest temper
fday, 65; lowest, 49.
Dctallr-d weathhyflMid
ne report" on pnie 1 B,
PRICE TWO CENTS.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 2G6.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, MAY 23, 1916. Copyright. 116. by the Sun Printing and PublUhtng AnoclaUon.
IT SHINES FOPs ALL
FRENCH FORCE
WAY INTO FORT
AT DOUAMONT
IU'ain Footing in Defences .
Held for Ninety Days
hv the (iei'inuns.
GAIN IX F0UI? ATTACKS
OX THE VKKDl'X FRONT
Capture 31 ore Tlmu a 3lile
of Trendies Xear the
Thiauiuont Farm.
Y
liTIIKU FKOCiRl'SS
AT LF MORT 1103DIE
Siiipiise Action Dislodges
Teutons on Heights of
the 3ense.
(will Cn'Jf flerpatch to Tin Scn.
Tari.1, May 22. The most successful
counter attack yet undertaken by the
French at Verdun ushered In the fourth
ninth of the huso lutllo for the great
barrier fortress. As a result Trench
trmps to-n ght stand once more in part
cf Kort Douaumont, Verdun's northern
most outer fortifications, which fell into
(Jtrm.ui hands ninety days ago.
Alone a front of about two kilometer"
( little more than a mile), between the
Tilaumont farm and a point east of
Djiuumnnt Kort, the Ficnch rushed for
ward In a furious assault, breaking down
the German resistance on the whole line
cf ntl.ick, capturing Herman trenches
and taking numerous prisoners.
The Germans, the War Office admits,
ttill Iiel'l the northern part of Douurnont
Fort. The attack was preceded hy a
invcrful and sustained artillery bom
tHrdnxnt.
On the left bank of tho river the de
fcnder of Verdun achieved a similar i thP Vlmy ridge,
uccej!", their Infnntry In a new counter The sudden German drive to the north
t'tiMt i "ting frm the Herman" parts I ;c3t of Vlmy Hldge was evidently tin
f new trenches! recently taken by them dertaken to outflank the Hrltlsh who
t of Le Mort Homme. Further prog- teccntly gained the crest of the ridge,
rest also wan made by the French south I where mining operations have been go
f Hill 25", where the Teutons w-erejnK 0, ever since. The success of the
ejecled from small earthworks captured , attack presents a serious menace to
ty them four days ago. i H,e llrltl.-h on tho ridge, at tho same
A fourth attack was launched by Gen. I time threatening, if followed up, Neu
Kivelle's troops on the heights of the j vllle-St. Vaast and Souchez. two places
Veuje. Here a surprise action drove tne I
Germans out of trenches on a sector of
l"0 meters, the French taking some
prisoners.
Port nannnmnnt Prnrrlrd.
The War Office Issued tho following
Statement i
In the Argonne our batteries con
jrtei an energetic bombardment of
Itjn'lllois, Montaucon and tho Hols
dc Oieppy.
On Iih left bank of the Meuse we
continued to make progress during tho
fl.ij nuih of Hill 2S7. We forced tho
ene to evacuate small earthworks
'i a he has held since the ISth.
In tie region west of Lo Mort
H n, iiu our counter attacks enabled
cir nf.tntry to drlvo the enemy out
o' i ruin new elements of trenches
. ip.ed by him.
iiu the riu-ht bank of the Meuse
fiei a powerful artillery bombaid
muit our Infantry captured by assault
i in. ui positions on a front of about
to kilometers between tho region
t of the Thlaumont farm and a
1'iliit east of Port Douaumont. On
tv entire front of attack our troops
'.jituit'd German trenches and pene
tntfil Port Douaumont, although the
t 'fin still holds the northern part.
Xn'tierous ptlsoners remain In our
fc i
"n ihe height" of the Meuse In the
R" i Houchot we executed a success-
P'' o'lp de main which enabled us to
cUaii out the trenches of the enemy
for a distance of 300 meters and to
rrake nnie prlsoneis.
I.ai night French grenadiers, accord
In; tu tho afternoon communique!.
,!, ' from the Germans In hand to
hind tluhtlng in the Hols d'Avocourt a
r.umiier nf blockhouses. In tho afternoon
fie I'rm h launched a counter attack
I of I.i; Mort Homme after their artil
lery had frutrated German attempts at
renewal of the drive In that region
nd raptured part of the ground lost
f-'a'iml.iy anil Sunday.
The Germans, on their part, thlfl after
rton pufferi-d heavy losses In futile
ff'iru to recapturn the poltlons at the
lUiidrnmont quarries, on the left bank
of the Meuse, taken by the' French yi
tfrdav tentative drives, the War
Office assorts, broke down under tho
French curtain of tire. In the outskirts
f the village of Vaux tho French took
German trench. A German attack In
th" t'hampdgne, In which gas was used,
tallcl,
n Attack a lloninernnK.
The afternoon communique read as
fcU'jw
Sou h of Herry-au-Hac French forces
ni'l'i'lul two mines with success at
Hill inc.
In champagne a gas attack by the
OTtnaiis was without reBUlt. Tills
'mission of gas was In the zonn be
tween tho road from Soualn lo Somme
J'y ami the roiul from Salnto llllalto
to S.i nt Souplet. No sooner bail tho
rloud of gas started Ihan an unex
lctf( turn In the direction of the
ini drove It back upon the trenches
of thn enemy.
n thx left bank of the, Meuse In
faniry fighting continued last night.
'he !,is d'Avocourt our grenadiers
"cured somo advantages ami occupied
HMTal blockhouses evacuated hy tho
t'i my
In the region west of I,e Mort
Homino tho fighting has been particu
larly f, rocinuH. Several attempts
ma.),. t,y thn enemy lo further their
progrr is have been thecked by our
cuilauis of lire and hy the activity
'"ir machlno guns. A vigorous at
taek by our troops mndo It posslhlo
for us to recailturo a portion of tho
rio'i ui loHt during tho night of May
ii "i
"n the light bank of thn Meuso the
Gi'itniiis iiavo delivered rep'-atisl
rounlir attacks upon thn positions at
tin ll.tuiliimioiit quarries captured by
tt Jtmerilay, i:acli of tho advance
Continued on Third Pag$,
'pHE accompanying mnp of the immediate neighborhood of Verdun
shows the region in which some of the most furious fighting of the
war has been going on for the past few days. The arrows show? the
direction of the attacks, both French and German. By n counter offen
sive which assumed the proportions of u general drive the French
forced their way into Fort Douaumont, long held by the Germans.
On the west bank of the Mctlso "he French attacked west of Le
Mort Homme and recaptured part of the ground recently lost there.
The Germans endeavorod to retake the Ilaudromont quarries north
west of Fort Douaumont but failed.
GERMAN DRIVE WRESTS
TRENCHES FROM BRITISH
London Admits Loss of 1,500 Yards of Positions Near
Vimy Ridge Teutons Report Gain on More Than
Mile Front Fight Goes On.
fftciiil Cubit Detpatcl, to Tus Six.
Lonpon, May 22. Tho Herman left
wing on the Anglo-Teuton line in the
west this afternoon dealt a serious blow
to the solidarity of tho Hrltlsh front by
penetrating, according to official admis
sion by the British War Office to-night,
the ilrlllsh first line trenches on a front
of about 1,500 yards a little less than a
mile) to a depth varying between 100
anil 300 yards, at tho north end of iniy
ridge, about half way between Loos and
Arras.
Tho German War Office In Its after
noon statement reports tho captute of
several lines of British positions over
a front of two kilometers (one and one-
quarter miles) near i.iveiicny-eii-uuueii-.
uhlrh lies KllKhtly to ihe northwest of
which have been liltteny tougni tor niuii)
times and repeatedly changed hands in
the early stage of tho operations on
that front.
IlrltUh Admit Loss.
The British War Ottice statement fol
lows :
After heavy bombardment lasting
nil yesterday and becoming Intense
this afternoon the enemy attacked our
position, on the north end of Vimy
ridge. He was successful In penetrat
ing our front line troncti-H on a front
of about 1,500 yardn. The depth of
the penetration varies from 100 to 300
yard- . , . . .i
To-day our artillery subjected the
German posltlon to a heavy bombard
ment. On the rest of the front wo
prang mines near Hocllncourt, tho
NEW NOTE ON MAIL SEIZURES.
President lo Send V. S. ProtrM to
Allien ThU Week.
Washington. May 22. Questions ln
olved in the diplomatic controversy be
tween the Unltcd States and tho Entente
Allies over the Interference with the
malls will be again threshed out In a
new American note addressed to the
Hrltlsh and French Governments which
has been prepared by tho State Depart
ment and Is now before President Wll
,on. The note will go forward this
week.
The last Joint reply from Great Hrltaln
and France attempting to jusury man
seizures on the ground that Germany
van profiting ny postal reguinuuim m
shin contraband into German territory
has not met with the approval or tne
l'nltd States. The new noto will point
f ut that the policy of the Entente with
regard to malls has cansea serious m
convenience to American citizens, that
It lias adversely affected American busl-
titss interests nno mat h musv u re
,.r,iB,l hv the United States as nn In-
tilngemcnt or American riBmn
respect.
CHAMP CLARK AS CHAIRMAN.
Will Be Asked to Preside nt St
I.onis, Is Itepnrt.
Washington, May 22. Speaker
Champ Clark, It Is understood, will be
asked to serve as permanent chairman
of tho Democratic national convention
In St. Louis, according to the plans of
tho arrangen-ont committee, cx-Gov.
Martin H. Glynn of New York belns
slated for temporary chairman.
More than 2D.00O applications have
been received for the 10,000 or 11.000
...u ihi will bo available in the con
ventlon hall. This will be one of ho
problems to b considered by the
National Committees sub-commlltee,
headed hv Chairman McCombs, which
meets In St. I.ouis jimoj.
RICHES FOR FORD'S WORKERS.
..i. flunk llepnlt Increase
f (1,000,000 Under Prollt Nhnrlnv.
Dbtuoit, 22. A survey of tho
prollt sharing results shows that In two
vears the bank deposits of thn ro-d
Motor Company's employees havo Jumped
to $r, 9B,03, an Increase of nearly J.r.,
000 000, while the vnlue of their homes
Is given as $21,787,433, a gain of more
than 118,000,000.
Two years ago 2,r,72 Ford employees
carried life Insurance, whereas 17,1 H
are now Insured, showing a total of
nearly fl&.OOO.OOO, aalnt 1I,MO,000
In two rn,
Hohenzollern redoubt and the quarries
Mlnlnt activity also took place near
Ncuville-St. Vaust and south of Flcur
balx. Tho artillery of both sides was ac
tive opposite Lens and cost of Yprca.
ftltt.illifiil (1 IWt n Ilin fllflllV ... .. r..1li n Virttiiffidttrin n-HVt (tin If ti 1.. 1
battery w,M of H.a.nvil.e. havnowed The Tl'rand Tury . .;. -..on by the convention would "'.n ev'ry 'slale 'of Vhe "ci'.lonr The ZT j "--"nation.
lesterday enemy aeroplane, were v,Ballon f the case that . esterday's ' !:8U" a ,bolt, I"1"'!'''! by the C olonel. ,,urjK)M Qf our committee Is to organize , (.. these concrete facts. General1 U fqu're'l Just three hours to ex-
active. Many of tlu m were engaged by actlo me.lllt miCi,nents. though no , Jhe ,onfl "ml h mannKe" have .no this sentiment and make It effective and 1 ,,8!(lun r uttcrly worthless unless. 1 amine 5 talesmen and agree upon the
our machines and eight we.,, driven . wor(, ,fikpJ ou, th.lt ulu , ,,, .1 love for the fav-orlte sons It was the at tllP Mlne me , the Itepubllcan, . rsll ,nc tl,nillll maMnK them 'twelve men and th ru flvn ,nln,...
off. though none was brought down. , hai, hven j . Tll0 ,.lct ,hat the nanagers of the favorite sons who Ilirty !n KO11K nPfore the country re- rua,,v lo mnie.llately applv them to ' i ' . . . . thlrt.fHo minutes
llitr ,., .l.n .!,.. nt ntf rn(nn.iUi. . ltniisfnil weeks nrn thwl white nnno nf V. u .ltv. -(' v., ..... .y ... . for Judee Slu.'ilifi'u hn.Mll...
" "'" two men who received notices to ap-, .. , v. , , .. , .. :. umieo ana in iuu michsui ,ui a . , every concrete case as It actually arises, .. . ............. ui.u,.
same macmncs wus mrccu 10 iiuiu m . ,,car tl,H ,mirn,1t wen- not arrested on ,"" "., "" """" (late who better than any otntr man is ,, unj,..,,,, (n ti1H KCCond place, ho has'w"lcn " and his asslstantH will
the enemy's lines. Iwnch warrants the usual procedure "1, !?J , U i, ,?- listened to and trusted by the great mass h opportunity. tle at oncu turns his urge a verdict of death for tho am.
u , , seemed to warrant the conjecture that stances could Col. Hoosevelt grab the of the ,)(,0p,fi nn,i w,o represents the words Into deeds. fen.lm. n, n- . ,
fiUenchr Trrnchr. Tk.n. ! they were not likely to leave the county's h0"0"- , .. wl A , , u spirit of Americanism awakened by you fondant. Dr. Alhertus Adair Moor
The German statement is ns follows: Jurisdiction, even before It was estab- T'" aflvr nmv being made in behair ln tne present crisis in the nations, Fliilitlnu for Principle. underwent his examination In chief and
Southwest of Glvenchv-en-Oobelle I Ilshed that Commissioner Kingsbury was :,ft-'- Hoosevelt Is expected to .prove . hUtory. , . '. ,, ,. .. , ... nearly completed his cross-examination
.ever il lln of HHtUd positions over "- them. Tho Commissioner, how- m spectacular feature of the pre-1 ..0ur comm,ee will be enlarged and "I am fighting for these principle.. fc ' - ",7""""
a front of about twkllonVeters we r. was as much at sea as any one convention campaign. The Hepubllcan wlll extfml t activities to every State They are the principle you i are organlr- " tne remaining two hours and twentv-
'cJuurLl i? li L Xh sever il to explain what the Grand Jury had commltte. n charge of the "drive" has , onler to ,,rln(! toKCther all elements ing to support, and with all my heart I five minutes, actual court time.
TOuntJ? attacks were ma. e nnw-ero r t- representatives In nearly every S ate and , ,le rt for unltcd acllon. We are ! welcome such support, accept ng It n- Walte, tho man around whom every -
"S'3cd W -ac'urcd c ht omce" S, HSW " cXn here to-day In order to notify you of our j given prlmar y to tho principles and ,, contred ,
2-20J.oldlers four' marine runs and u" Wife Hr.,-. rujuw. organization and to mform you , that we u,.. J.y fy. .". I as calinly and nt.narent.v .,,,,!,, Pw,
three mine throwers. Moreover, the
enemy suffered exceedingly heavy
losses.
West of the Meuse our troops
stormed French positions on tho east
ern spurs of Hill 301 and maintained
them against repeated enemy attacks.
In addition to the great losses of tho
enemy In killed or wounded we cap
tured nine nlllcers, 518 men and five
machine guns.
The booty taken on the southern
spurs uf 1' Mort Homnin has been
increased to thirteen cannon and twenty-one
machine guns. South of L"
Mort Homme and In the vicinity of
Chattancmirt the enemy made futile
nttempts to recapture lost ground.
Tho French made several attacks
without success on our lines In the
region of the quarry uth of Ilaudro
mont and on the Vaux ridge (Verdun
front). In the third attack the French
succeeded In obtaining a footing in tho
quarry.
During the night the artillery was
exceedingly active on both sides In
the whole sector.
COT, PTTTTTTTX! TT c k A QTTTPTTI'r
CUli. raiiaUJb, U. S. A.,A bUIUJJ,
I'.nds Life With Bullet at Army
Hospital 'in Washington.
Washington. May 22. Col. John L.
Phillips, Medical Corps. U. S. A., for-
mcrly In charge of tho Walter Heed
Army General Hospital here, committed ,, enacting that section evidently had In
suicide In the hospital grounds this after-1 mind a distinction between unlawful and
noon. Last September Col. Phillips fell,iful tapping and tajiplng which Is
down an elevntor shaft at tho hospital legal. Tho distinction apparently is be
nnd his head was hurt. Since then he tween tapping which is for the purpose
imu niiii-ii'u iiwin iiieiiiououiy. tills
afternoon he took a walk and Inter was
found In a path dead from a bullet wound
In tho heart, Inflicted by a servlco re
volver. Pinned to his coat was a note ad
dressed to his wife and daughter, who
live at the hospital officer,,' quarter". The
note was not made public.
Aliout the same tlmo Lieut. Luther
W. Ferguson, stationed at tho hospital,
was thrown from a hoise nnd suffered
Injuries from which he died.
J. J. HILL'S RECOVERY SLOW.
I'nnillj lleporta, However, That ni
nes I Xnt Serlona.
St. Paiii., May 22. The recovery of
James J. Hill Is reported to be very slow.
However, word from his homo mini-
mlies tho serloimness of his Illness nnd
says It Is expected ho will bo attending
to business by the end of the week.
Thero were rumors to-day that his con
dition Is worse than has been stated but
not alarming.
Mr, Hill has been confined to bis home
since last Thursday. For several days
he went to his office despite the protests
of his family, He Is 78 years old.
FOR UNIVERSAL TRAINING.
t'hnmlierlaln Neea President I Hay
He'll Press Service lllll.
Wash inoton, May 22, Senator Cham
berlain of Oregon, who conferred to-day
with the President, Intimated afterward
that because of thn failure of the Na
tional Guard organizations of the three
Stntes to respond properly o the call
he would probably press for the passage
of a supplemental army bill providing
for universal mllltnry tra'nlnc. Mr.
Chamberlain already haB such n bill
pending In Congress. Ho ?xpe:ts to con
fer with the President nt u later date
concerning UiIh mensure.
Hrlg.-Oen. William H. Harvey of the
District of Columblu National Guard hns
obtained f'om the President n promise
that In tin' near future the latter would
Issuo a statement calling on the country
to support the proposed cxpmslon nf the
organized mUltla under 'h, Chamber-Iiln-Hay
'.III from Its presort stiength
i t 120,000 'o 425,000,
ATLANTIC CITY mrr MKMOIUU. IAY.
I'fnnnylianlvi (tullroiid Keek in, I nultnc,
Pstunluy, Msy 11, Tickets tli.M a (li t),
Inrludlnx hotel. Connult cents or phone
"lUdlson Uquure 700," Adv.
WIRE INDICTMENTS
FORECAST TO-DAY
Kings Grand Jury Ends In
quiry Into Tapped Phonos
in Charities Caso.
' SENDS TOR KINGSBURY
His Presence Required This
Morning When Report Is
Mnde to Judge May.
The Kings county drum! Jury, which
j Ii.ih been Investigating the tapping of
telephone wires In connection with the j
recent charities Investigation, is extieeicu
tn report two indictments to County
Judge Mitchell May this morning nt 10
o'clock. The grand Jurora finished hear
ing testimony before noon yesterday,
went Into executive srselon for an hour
and n half and then adjourned until,
to-day. Meanwhile notices were sent out
to two men whose nnmcs figured promi
nently In the inquiry, one of them being
Chailtles Commissioner Kingsbury, to
njipenr before Judge May at tho time
when the Grand Jury will report.
Commissioner Kingsbury was notified
In the afternoon by telephone from Dis
trict Attorney Lewis's oflice that his
presence would be desired nnd he
promised to comply. Who the other per
son is who has been called before Judge
May could not be determined definitely
last night, but It wan believed to be
Deputy Police Commissioner Lord. Police
Commissioner Woods testified before the
Thompson committee on Filday that Mr.
rhompson comm ttee n Hday that sir.
Z'tiX
1
tapl
case. The other city omclalu concerned
In the matter were Mayor Mitchel, Com-
inlsHloner Woods and Deputy Police Com. j
The Grand Jury was expected on Sun
day to finish work yesterday. Only two
witnesses wero called In tho morning.
They were George D. Crlghton, an em
ployee of the Hums agency, who laid
before the Investigating body the records
of the part played by the agency In the
Seymour cose, and Frank E. Ilrooke,
secretary to former Police Commissioner
Dougherty. The Jury finished taking
I testimony about 1 1 o'clock and then
heard sections of the criminal code re
lating to wire tapping. Mr. Lewis made
a brief address and then the Jury held
nn executive session before adjournment
nt 12 :.10.
District Attorney Lewis would not ills-
' cusn the Investigation. It has been his
contention slncu the Inquiry' opened th.t
I the Grand Jury Itself took up the wire
tapping on its own initiative and he
merely directed the mechanics of the In
quiry. Mr, Lewis at the request of The
Sl-.v reporter Indicated two sections of
the Pinal Code which apply to wire tap
ping. Ho then dictated his own Inter
pretation of the law. The law Itself Is
I vague and If indictments are found the
1 construction of It will prove a knotty
problem. Mr. Lewis's personal conte"
tlon Is that none has a right to tap wire
maliciously or to serve private ends.
"Section 142.1. subdivision fi. of the
Penal Law, he said, "In substance pro
I vldes to far as applicable to the tapping
I ... ...,..V...... ...1- . . ...I,
in n'li -miliiv n . n jitrimm mi WU'
fnllv and lltil.LW'f utlv tatm u tolcnlmnn
wim is militv of a crime thn tnmuh.
ment for which Is Imprisonment for not
more than two vears. The LeeUlnti,.-,.
.or .Infection or crllllM alio crlm n:il
tapping to satisfy iwrsonal curiosity."
Commissioner Kingsbury, who has
been a storm centro In the wire tapping
row since It began, would not bo ques
tioned last night. Stanley Howe, sec
retary of tho Department of Charities.
speaking for the i ommlssioner, said
simply that Mr. Kingsbury had been
asked over the telephone to nppear In
County Court In the morning at 10
o'clock and bad asqulesced ln tho re
quest. Deputy Commissioner Lord and
Commissioner Woods could not be
reached up to. a lato hour, and Deputy
commissioner Scull said ho knew noth
ing about any developments of the kind
mentioned, Tho Mayor knew nothing
about them late yesterday afternoon.
Origin ft Ihe Controversy.
From tho beginning of the Inquiry It
has been expected that the Grand Jury
would return several indictments. Tho
row caused by tho publicity given to the
tt'lcphouo tappings In the charities caso
brought to light tne whole, wire tapping
controversy and set tho Thompson com
mittee on the trail of tho tappers too.
Five uniformed policemen members of
tho wiro tapping squad figured In thn
case, but they wero believed to be ex
empt from any possible Grand Jury ac
tion. Just before the Strong commission fin
ished Its investigation of the State Hoard
of Charities It waa charged that the
telephone wires of the Hev. William II,
Fairell. a Catholic priest; Dr. D, C. Pot-
tcr'and Dean Potter nnd been tapped by
tho police in tne interest or commis
sioner Kingsbury's side nf tho row,
Father Far roll and the Potters weie
among tho first witnesses railed beforo
tho Kings county Grand Jury In April
when tho Inquiry "began, nnd thoy were
recalled for further testimony nfter
Mayor Mitchel and four members of his
official family had testllled
Mayor Mltchol said late last night
that ho had not heard that anybody
had been Indicted, Ho denied that he
had been present nt a conference with
city officials l'ist night supposed to have
been called to dlscii" tho Grand Jury's,
action. He would ninko no other state
ment on tho wlro tapping situation.
Hughes Vote In Vermont, 11,4(10.
Montpblikh, Vt May 22. Official re
turn-s announced to-night by the Secre
tnry of State on the Presidential prefer
once primary of May in show that
Justice Hughes led the Hepubllcan ticket
with 5,410 voter Hoosevelt received
1,031 votes on the Republican and 1,418
on the ProgreMtva tickets,
T.R. TO BE DICTATOR,
BUT NOT NOMINEE
Warwick Role Virtually Laid
Out for Him by the Re
publican Leaders.
EFFORT TO BLOCK A BOLT
Roosevelt Expected to Surren
der Early on Nomination
and Re "Regular.''
Wasiiinoton, May 22. Itepubllcan j
leaders here appear to be In accord In I
the view that though Theodore Hoose- j
veil may not be named ns the Kepubll-1
can nominee In Chicago In June his will ' their heads in acceptance of that con
be the controllhiK voice in the choice to ! ceptlon and applauded. They also set
be made. j up a hnndclnpplng when Col. Uooscvelt
For the sake, of party harmony the faid It was useless for any public man
regular leaders arc willing to listen to to announce himself in vague general
Col. Roosevelt's counsel In tlie selection (
of a candidate, and they will let him die-
tato In largo measure the principal fea-
lure of the party platform. They will ) Col. Roosevelt read these words from
concede this much to the ox-Prcsl-, a ,ecch ll8 had prepared for the occa
dent. hut will resist to the utmost, at B0I1 ije rm, tnfm to the members
whatever cost, any endeavor that may i of the COmmlllee who had motored to
be made to nominate him. I ovater H.iv after thev had marched Into
The favorite sons have practicality lost
hope that Mr. Roosevelt will O. K. any
of this particular group when the time
comes as they believe It will come
for Mr. Hoosevelt to realize that under
no circumstances can he hope to snatch
the nomination from the Hepubllcan con
vention. They believe that Col. noose
velt personally might favor nilhu Hoot,
but they fear he would have difficulty I Hoosevelt Hepubllcan committee, stepped
In persuading his Progressive following; forward nnd read the following addrens :
to accept the former Senator. They are ..A committee of Republicans has been
of the onlnlon that Mr. Hoosevelt will !.... ,i . ,nu i, ,iomnn,t am.inr
ntcrpo(e no objection t0 delate Jus-
1,U"h-
l'nvorltr inn' Attitude. I
There Is not a mother's son in the
group of the State favorites who would
Hoosevelt leader here, to convey to the
unlnstrticted delegates, who number
nearly 700. that there Is a popular up
rising In the party for the former
President, and that, considering tho
times nnd the Issues, he Is tho logical
candidate,
Leaders here Insist that whlli
is
fleet of this last minute campaign
serve to strengthen Hooevelt'n strategic
position In the convention ho will find
that It will not bo posslhle to stampede)
tho Chicago delegates. It Is pointed out ,
here that In 1912 Hoosevelt lost the He
I - ... . r. i hilntlil tO UU Wlim WO Prune.!) v.u is I . o .ttv v.n,r. ,v, , - .
moral suasion u is nupeu, accoruing to i
publlcan nomination .lesplte the fact that
he had nearly a majority In the tem
porary organization. l ,,,..
In this Instance his enemies do not . L OHUHOIIS
concedo him more than 150 delegates, i
This being so, they argue that Hoosevelt
will see the handwriting on the wall very '
early ln the deliberation of the conven
tion and thnt It will then be Incumbent i
on him to designate one or more candi
dates, any one of whom he could see his
wav clear to support.
Friends of Justice Hughes do not np
near to be dismayed over the Hoosevelt
drive and they nre frank In expressing .
belief that the Jurist will finally be ap.
proved by the former President
.,. i.mira hem whose views nrc
not warned by Interest In particular can-
,1 1 n HM , 1cr.sian. 1 in 1,A rAWOMfflll nl'wp'
what they regard as "an attempt to smokn.
out Justice Hughes." Heports were
published this morning that Hughes bad nlvlsabie. Action was demanded, It wa
referred to Hoosevelt as the "logical j cioeltirert. to safeguard tho home nnd see
candldnte" of the Hepubllcans. The im-, (mlt ,h(, ,,Pople are supplied with food.
r,resion was conveyed that in a talk, ..., .i i- Prothero. Conservative
with a leader Hughes took the position ' memD(.r for thn Fnlvcrslty of Oxford,
that he was not to be considered nnd Voc.itnl pulling the people on latmn.s
that In his opinion Mr Hoosevelt would ( ,(s u prclMUtn. Huwlnnd Hunt, Piilon
be nominated, i js, mrmber for the Ludlow division of
"Justice Hughes does not recognize Shropshire, suggested guaranteeing forty
Irresponsible rumors," was tho comment rlillllriR (H' a quarter for wheat to
of Justice Hughes's secretary on this , pnrouri,'BP the production of wiuat 111
particular report. Great Interest was , ,jr,3h jsi0.,
shown hero In another report from New . M jrotheio Fald that Great lliit-
York that a Joint letter woum do no- i , mny nil lt advisable to Issuo food
dressed to all tho Hepubllcan available tlt)v(,tB i the near future He expreNSed
asking them for expressions of opinion . (ho O.)mlon t)llt there will be a leduc
on certain public questions. A ropy of ttm ()f fr()m j, , 2r por ,.et. this ear
this letter, according to the report, Willi. . - , proiuctlon of tho countiy.
he forwarded to Hughes. Doubt is ex-
presseu mui it "hhr ,o,,v.
response.
.Smoking Ont" F.ffnrla.
Hfforts to "sn'oke out" Justlco Hughes
have been In progress for many months.
He has answered many letters bearing
on the subject of politics, but ho has
aiinel to make any commitments ex
cept to say In two or three Instances
that be W'as not u ciuiuiii.uts mr any
political oftlce. leaders hero nre con
fident that if the Joint letter under dis
cussion Is realty written It will be de
signed solely for Justice Hughes.
Those Interested In the Hughes can
dldary do not nppear to bo nt all
concerned over the threatened communi
cation. They say that any efforts now
made to draw out the Jurist cannot be
ncniited ns having been put isjrward
In good faith. They are confident that
Justice Hughes will mnlntaln bis present
attitude until the Chicago convention
ha acted, and they are likewise con
fident thnt If tho nomination Is tendered
Justlco Hughes will resign from the
bench aul accept the commission.
Hepubllcans generally are taking a
lively Interest in the prohnblo plntform
tn be ndnnted. Outside of Its orthodox
Indorsements tho platform Is expected to
he spirited nnd progressive In tono, es
pecially In Its definition of "American-
Ism as (liscurwu in i"tiu ppceuoea Uf
uvorcd bv Col. Hoosevelt.
it Is the general expectation that the
instrument In the main will be written
by Senator Lodge, who Is understood to
be slated for the chairmanship of the
committee on resouuions, air. ixinge,
M.ho Is a close friend of Mr. Hoosevelt,
Is expected to tone down utterances on
this subject mat may oo suimutted tiy
thn former President for Incorporation
in the platform. All of this Is based on
the hypothesis of course thnt Mr. Hoose
velt will fall In line with his old pnrty
In the event mat ne (una to land the
nomination.
Col, Hoosevelt will be In Washington
to-morrow to tentlfy In a lawsuit. So
fur known no political conference
Continued on Fourth, Pago,
HUGHES AND WILSON ARE
UN-AMERICAN, REASONS
COLONEL BY INFERENCE
Any Man "Not Aggressively for Americanism and Pre-
paredness" Is Against Nation's Greatest Issues
Accepts Call to Make Fight.
OTariR Bat, V. T May 22. Col.
Hoosevelt told a delegation from tho
Roosevelt Republican committee to-day
that nny man who doesn't declare him
self for principle of Americanism to
against them, and that every patriotic
man should treat public servants on this
basis. There -was no doubt that the
Colonel had Justice Hushes on his mind.
and thn twenty-four members of the
committee who were prraent nodded
terms as In favor of Americanism and
preparedness whether he be in or out
of office.
ln0 Colonel' house and had formed an
i-.irnest semicircle In the big trophy room,
where they were Joined by live of Oyster
Hay's prominent citizens.
As soon as the Colonel, clad In his
khaki riding suit, appeared on the steps
leading down from the hall to the trophy
room Giorae von L. Meyer, former Sec
retary of the Navy and chairman of the
pub lean vo er, for the nomination of
Theodore Hoosevelt .by the Hepubllcan
party for the Presidency.
Call Sentiment Widespread.
"We believe the sentiment for our
bring about your nomination In the He
uubllcan convent on to tie neiu
next
month In Chicago.
"I also present to you the names of our
committee, representing thirty States.
BRITAIN IS FACING
A NEW FOOD PERIL
Hears Protests
Against KpiTiiiting f
Fnrin Laborers.
NEE!) WOMEN WOKKKKS
Sptrvil I'nMr f)rntcA to Tiir. srN
Lonoon. May 22. In a debate in the ;
himw. nf Commons to-nay concerning
,riti,,e of farm laborers for mill
... I - tl.A ntii,,lklrtl
ev.u..... - ....
;tronR oxpref8ln8 were voiced that fur -
ln rcrultlng of farm laborers was In -
or.. irv po nil tier liic imu miop'ii
vmnci Dyke Aeland. P.iTllamuitary
Under Secretary for Agriculture, prom
lied to employ soldiers during tho bar-
Mr. Aeland declared thnt there will
he a breakdown In homo supplies if the
labor situation on tne tarms grows
worse. He urged that farmers should
discard their prejudice against female
labor.
Ho nsserted tnai ir more men are
taken from tho farms for military service
Great Hrltalu can only escapo famine
by diverting to the transportation of
food ships now urgently needed to trans
port munitions.
"We nre unable to say," he concluded,
"whether thero will be any ships tu
divert from the trade In that way"
HELFFERICH GETS NEW JOB.
K-t.ermaii Governor of Alance-
l.nrralnr 'ovv Flounce Minister.
UiNP'iN, May 22. An nfllelnl state
ment from Hcrlln says that Dr. Kail
Helfferlcli has been nppolnted Minister
of thn Interior, with tho added honor of
Deputyshlp In the ofllco of tho Imperial
Chancellor.
Count von Roedern, formerly fecre.
tary of State nnd Governor nf AIhbco
Lorrnine, will nucceed Dr. Hclffeilch ns
Secretary of the Imperial Treasury,
Move liy Germnnr lo Regain Her
I.ost Trade.
IiNPo.N, May 23. The Daily Mail
says that Dr. Ilclffcrleh'fi transfer to the
Ministry of tho Interior lei an Important
utep In the fat sighted German prepara
tions for the commercial war to follow
peace, adding:
"The Kaiser has decided tn fitacn a
professional buslnetM mm In chnnge, who
will be expected In, Invent ways nnd
means of regaining tho 301,000,000
(12,520,000,000) export trade which Ger
many enjoyed before tho present conflict,
For the tlrtt tlmo In tho history of the
German civil service a practical husluows
man, Instead nf a buicaucrnt politician,
la to be 1U chieftain."
Our organization will be extended to the
other States and will be enlarged from
time to time."
When Mr, Meyer had concluded the
Colonel, who had listened as attentively
as If ho had never heard of the Hoose
velt Hepubllcan committee before, lead
from his own manuscript ;
"1 am naturally very deeply touched
and pleased by your action. 1 accept It
absolutely In tho spirit which you have
taken It. You nrc for mo bceuuse you
regard me as representing and embody
ing the aggressive movement for thor
oughgoing Americanism and thorough
going preparedness. Your devotion is to
the cause and to the man only In so far
as ho for the time being embodies the
cause. This Is precisely the attitude 1
took in my Trinidad statement.
Facing World Crisis.
"I now hold and shall continue to hold
this a great tlmo of crisis In our coun
try's history, because It Is a great crisis
In the history of tho world. If wo aie
unprepared, If we are split and sundered
by rivalries of creed, of section nnd na
tional origin. If our country's action Is
to be conditioned by helplessness without
and the hyphenate within, the career of
the United States ns a great factor in the
world's civilization Is nt an end.
"There is no uso of being for half
measures of Americanism and prepared
ness. Still less is it of any use for any
public man to announce himself In vague
general terms as In favor of American-
Ism and preparedness unless his whole I
course of action In public life has made
It evident, and now makes It evident,
that he means Just exactly what he says.
Cnless. If he Is In oltlce, or has been In
ottice, his career has been such ns in full-
est measure to warrant the belief that i
ho s a man of deeds and not of words i
In this matter and unless In every crisis, i
uh.lli.. hn U lit nr r.lit nf .ltW I,,,
fnmkly and fully takes a position on the !
cnlly for theso principles is against
"""""'- ""'
Continued on fourth Pilar.
HUGHES PLURALITY
1 IN OREGON, 30,000
Women Voted for the Jurist
at the Hntio of About
Two to One.
CLE A If TEST DECLARED
PonjTAXP, Ore., May 22. .luMlee
Hughes probably ha.s carried Oregon by
a luuramy m more man ju.uuu m
Senator Albert H. Cummins. Incomplete
-
rfiiirii. rritrciFiiiiriir 1 uiro maie v iu
1 cfnt )f v0,, , , j,, ,
! . .,
Mm" .Miiiwiniuiin, uie iniwi oenseiy popu
lated county, give him a total of 20,381,
with 15,401 for Cummins. Hx-Senator
Hurton has 5,711 votes.
These llgures give llugh.s a phi
lality, outside Multnomah, of nearly
11,000 over his nearest opponent. If this
same latlo Is maintained In tho re
mainder of the vote H ugliest will have I
a clear plurality over Cummins of about
.10,000. With the complete) votn In Mult
nomah county tabulated Justice Hughes
has 20,S7:i votes to 8,213 for the Iowa
Senator, a plurality of nearly 15.000,
Justice Hughes likewisi his received n
dear majority of mote than 20,000 over
all Itepubllcan Presidential candidates
combined.
Col, Hoosevelt whose name w.is not
on the ballot, n-cclved only scattering
votfs from various parts of the State.
The primary campaign Junt closed hns
been regarded here as one of the most
Important held thl je.ir In tho United
States. Oregon was the only Statu ln
which the name of Charles K. Hughes
appeared for the Presidency, In other
words. It was the first real test before
the voters of the I'nlteU States n to
Ills popularity In national politics.
Tho returns so far received Indicate
that the women voted for him In a
ratfo of almost 2 to 1. Tho German
American sentiment seems to hnve cut
but little figure. Ope of the most nu
merous German societies In tho State
made an olllclal appeal to lto members
In vote for Senator Cummins of Iowa,
but this seems to have had little or no
effcrt on the result,
Then, again, It Is known that the
Progressives quietly urged the members
of their party to support the Iowa Sen
ator, who mane an active personal can
vass of tho State.
While It Is true that a considerable
number of voters wrote In tho name nf
Theodore Hoosevelt, lt is not believed by
those In touch with thn situation that
the Colonl would have led In tho voting
even If Ms name had been placed on
the olllclal ballots. To sum It up, there
seems to bo a general Impression thnt
regardless of all political factions Jus
tice llughea Is the clear choice nf the
Hepubllcan voters of Oregon.
Ontpoats Clnah In Cnucaana,
Special Cable Hrspittc'i to TlIK St'
Pr.TnoanAP, via London, Mny 22. Ths
Hussion War Otllce announced to-night
that tho only activities In the Caucasus
region wero outpost actions In the direc
tion of Diarnekr.
Prince nf Walea nnok at the Front.
Special l ahlt leiateh to Tn Scs,
IxiNfioN, May 22 Tho Prince of
Wales has returned from Hgypt to the
Hrltlsh lighting lino In the west, lis
recently visited the Italian froat
WAITEMPSAS
SWANN BRANDS
HIM MURDERER
Accused Poisoner Also
Laughs nnd Yawns Alter
nately as Trial Opens.
STATE TO CHAHGK
USB OF CIIXOIfOFORM
Will Try to Show Prisoner
Forced It on Peck After
Giving Him Arsenic.
IUHV CHOSEN QUICKLY;
WIFE STAYS NEAR BY
Mrs. Horton Within Call
X. Y. Records Broken by
Speed of Proceedings.
All local records In trials of Important
murder cases were broken yesterday
when In six hours tho Jury had been
chosen in ,inoi,t ,. ..n. i
;e" V0 ccM' ,.,ho RUllt op Innocence
01 ur- Arthur Warren Walte. charged
w-Ith murdering his father-in-law, John
Ji Peck. District Attorney Swann had
, ,,, . ., ...
CI,e ic'1 , for ,he Prosecution and tho ex-
nilllnntlOn Of tllO first U'ltlixun hill
progressed until llttlo remained for fur-
might have been an Idle spectator or a
; hardened court attendant for all the
J personal Interest ho dlsplaed.
i Clean shaven, neatly attired In a hlue
I serge suit, with Immaculate linen nnd
'carefully manicured nails. U'.ilte could
smile at the replies of some of the tales
men and he could even laugh aloud when
one talesman said that he was "de
cidedly In favor of capital punishment
for this particular case."
"miles nt Talk nf I). nth.
lie made some humorous observation
to his counsel seated next to him when
the man who had worked on tho first
electric chair ever built for this state
was excused. The accused man glanced
up only casually when tho District At
torney sprang a surprise by haying that
ho would produce witnesses to show
that on the night Mr. Peck died Walto
bad saturated a handkerchief with
chloroform, which bo first placed over
tho nostrils and mouth of the dying
man. and upon that ho had placed a
heavy pillow upon which bo boro down
hard.
The dentist lost all Interest when Dr.
Moore step hy step told of the growing
consciousness of the defendant that tho
law was after him: how tho cremation
plan, stopped by tho mysterious I. K,
Adams letter, had brought the man back
to New York ; his half veiled move
ments and attempts to evade, nnd finally
his terrific doses of coal tar heart de.
pressents which passed off under tho
scrutiny of the offlci rs of tho law,
The head of the defendant was seen
to nod at one stage of bis examination
and a close observer niw that thn man's
eyes wero closed and ho was enjoying a
little nap. There was nothing brazen,
apparently no pretence, no particular
concern In the actions of bin counsel, no
consultations with them.
When called upon to confront a Juror
under the ancient rules of law WalU
would tlrst gaze straight Into tho eyes
of the man and then drop ills own eyes.
but stand Immovable, his arms folded.
Ho kept his aims folded nearly all day,
occasionally uiicris-slng thein ns he
flicked a spot of dust from his coat
hleeves or meditatively tubbed one knee.
An lleln In lliik Court.
It was all business In thn Criminal
Hranch of the Supreme Court from th
moment that Justice Sheain took his
place. District Attorney Swann with
his asslstantH, George N Hroihers John
T Doollng and Francis Mancuo.
had entered a little while before with
attendants bearing birge packets of vl-
dence. Walter It. Deuel and Joaeph I .
Crater, who are ilefeiming the mat,,
tamo an Inelant laUi
In the meantime Warien Ua e ani
Frank A. Walte, fntlier and hiother re
spectively of the defendant, bolh men
who show the strain far more ihan the
son nnd brother, sat In one little
enclosure, whilo Percy Peek, sou of tlv
dead man, and li!n wife sat tn one sul.i
behind another i.illllig Sealed in
various parts of the court room were
Dr. Malum, allenlM fur tho pn-i"'utinn,
who will be aidnl by Drs. Smith Kly
Jelllffo and Minns Gregory; Dr Dlefeii
dorfer nnd Dr. Allen Hoss, upon whom
will depend the Insilllty defciun of tb.i
prisoner.
There weie only a few spuclators, f.ir
Justice Shearn told ('apt, James H.
Kavaniigli. head of the court rqu.nl, that
there would bo no morbid demiuistrn.
tlnns nt this dial nml dpt. Kavanagh
Is seeing that the morbid do not get In.
They bave benched off the corridor out
side the room and placed nt the stall',
ways policemen, who hold up all except
those who have a r!ht to enter.
Mrei. Arthur Warien Walte h.ul coma
to the court eaily in the morning, buf.
bad been excused for thn day. Mis,
Margaret Horto'i, who will play nn Im
portant part In the trial, was within
telephone call. Many of the wltnesse
from Grand nankin are tn town and moro
will come .(o-day, Tb triad la arruage)
