0
MARKETS
NEW YORK CiTV
Average price of cop.
per for week ending
May 17, 29.
WEATHER
III i
ARIZONA Gsneraly
fair.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL 18, NO. 308
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, MAY 23, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
CARRANZISTA
OFFICER'S
BLUFF IS
CULLED
Major - Howze Ignores De
mands For Return of Pro
visions Captured by Amer
icans from Bandits.
U. S. WILL PAY ONLY
.ORIGINAL OWNERS
Mexican Orders Americans to
Retreat and Again is Defied,
So He Detours Around Ex
pedition.
" CAMERA DAUNTS BANDIT.
CHIHUAHUA, Mex.. May 21.
via El Paso Juction. May 22.
Pablo Lopez, perpetrator of the
Santa Ysabel massacre and au
thor of many other outrages in
the name of Pancho Villa, who
has faced gunfire many times
without flinching, crouched in
terror before the eye of a ca
mera here today.
He thought that the taking
of hia pictures by an American ,
newspaper man was but the
prelude to his being taken to
the notorious Santa Rosa execu
tion place. For -hours after he
surrendered he enquired anx
iously of every warder who ,
came near his prison cell if he
was about to be led forth to '
is death. 1
Since his capture, which took
place near the scene of his su
preme crime, jthe murder of
eighteen Americans, Pablo has
been confined here while his
wounds are treated. When he
is well again he will be convicted.
UFXIfili OEIflOCRA
..r.ww.ww a.w.. ni 111
: DAMIDIIDT D'l
: OlinUN
IS II. s.
i PROBLEM
I
IS SWEEP BISBEE IN
111 ELECTIO
ID ills THE
Frank Walsh, Democratic Candidate for City Clerk' is Defeat
ed by M. L. Butler, while Bassett T. Watkins, Republican,
is Returned to the Council From the Third Ward. Council
and Mayor Democratic Mayor Wins By Small Majority.
: outer Republic s reople otarv-1
i : . f d:i I
ing, money uunc, ixauwaja ,
I
lied Up, Gravely Affects
Washington.
iCUROSITY FOLLOWS
(Ey Review Leased Wire.)
FIELD HEADQUARTERS. May 17
via wireless to Columbus, N. M., May
22. Cavalry returning here tonight
from far southern marches, brought
news of brusque demands made upon
them by General Cavazos, the Carran
zista officer in command of several
thousand men now policing the sec
tion of Chihuahua from Parral north
ward to San Antonio. The demands
were made on the Eleventh cavalry,
in command of MaJ. Robert L. Howze,
a few days ago. This cavalry, after
annihilating some of a large band of
Villistas at Ojos Azules was resting
south of aSn Antonio making ready
to clean up the remainder of the ban
dits. For the first week after their
defeat the Villistas never appeared in
groups of more than four, so the Amer
icans played a waiting game.
General Cavazos first demanded of
Major Howze the cor nwhich the A-merican-
troopers had seized from the
defeated Villistas. Next the-C'arranz
loader demanded that he be given the
horses the Americans had taken. He
was informed that any property would
be paid fo rin full, but that the mon-j
ey would be given to the original own- j
er of the property. Finally General i
Cavazos demanded that the Americans
retreat northward. This was refused
flatly. The Carranzista commander
then requested permission to march
past, or through the American posi
tion to consolidate his command with
reinforcements and this was granted.
The Americans were drawn up on the
crest of a hill, when Carranza force
marched past.
A beared American soldier, father
of a family, who watched them, said
today: "I am sure that Jialf of the
command was composed of boys. Some
of them appeared not more than thir
teen or fourteen years old.
"It was by Fuch troops that we wer
told we had been threatened. Those
boys would not stand one chance in a
thousand against our expert shots
it would be almost murder to engage
them." . . '
Immediately after this incident on
SISLEY COLUMN S
SUCCESSFUL
LETCHER TO CAPITAL
Visit of U. S. Consul in Mex
ico is Regarded with Deep-
est Significance in Washing
ton Circles.
FOR MAYOR 1
I. C. E. Adams, Democrat 352
Wm. Tonkin, Republican 19
FOR CITY MARSHAL
Jarres Allison, D 356
Orscn P. McRea, Republican 1SS
FOR CITY CLERK
.Frank Walsh,. Democrat 301
M. L. Butler, Republican 242
-
FOR STREET SUPERINTENDENT
C. A. Bailey - 386
Barnes Tustin 157
ALDERMEN -
J. J. Hill, Democrat, (1) 275
Dan Walsh, Democrat, (1) 2SS
Joe Muhclm, Republican. (1 : 225
Geo. Bunker, Republican, 111) 200
2
192
134
212
107
ItiO
160
217
1"2
326
501
571
2B5
3X4
497
430
4t!)
I
i
!
;
:
;
;
' 4i
;
;
I
;
Total Majority '
G. O. P. IN FOR HOT TIME.
EXCEPTIONS
CHICAGO, May 22. Indica
tions are t.'iat the Republican
national convention or 1916 will
be one of the noisiest and most
extitiug of the party
With sixteen cat -
president in the fie' VIMOZIHV XIN30Hd
the result in doubt v -Q.I'I lUOiJ,
uuiioi uas oeen ta .
SON PENS
1f,1 IMF
III! I W I taa
870
831
1139
f,t;o
795
899
1033
39,
579,
104
365'
likely to be an unusual amount
of noise and enthusiasm every -
day the convention is in ses-
sion.
Fred W. Vpmun. chairman of
the loctl committee on ar-
rangement was informed today
that plans have been made to
bring more than 100 bands and
fifty glee and marching clubs to
Chicago during the convention
week. -
iimr STASHED
501
88'
(By Review Leased Wire.) I
WASHINGTON. May 22. The j
economic situation in Mexico is'
grave, according to 'jflicial accounts
to the state department. With the c. W.
monetary problem already acute, the
food shortage in Mexico City without I J. M. Connolly, Democrat i3t i
pi'jspect of any immediate relief, and; Wm. Delbridge, Democrat, (3)
R. A. Davison, Democrat, (2)
Jake Ertckton, Democrat, (2)
Jack Applin. Republican, 121
Ruth, Republican U)...
185
179
102
114
83
65
FOB SREAT
BRITAIN
Vigorous Demands Go For-
ward Today, Insisting That
U. S. Mails Must Not Be
Tampered With.
EXCUSE OF ALLIES
SCORNED BY AMERICA
Washington Overwhelms Vio
lators with Evidence Prov
ing Its Stand; Is Impatient
with Offenders.
American Troopers Arrive on
Texas Soil After Avenging
. Glenn Springs Raid and
Routing Bandits.
NOT A MAN LOST
ON EXPEDITION
Flying Column For Days Was
Completely Out of Touch,
Gained Much by Trip and
Rescued Deemer. -
fBy Review Leased Wire.)
MARATHON. May 22. The flying
! columns of the Eighth and Fourteenth
cavalry, detailed by Major Frederick
Funtton to give chase to the bandit ition by the de facto government,
with the labor strike ertendiux over
I practically all the Mexican railway
lines, the de facto government is pic
tured as facing a serious domestic
plight.
First hand reports as to the situa
tion in northern Mexk will reach the
department tomorrow. Consul Letcher
from Chihuahua City is en route to
Washington, presumably bringing with
him a synapsis of the reports of five
other consuls recently ordered to the
border to talk over conditions with
military officials there. It was "jfli-i
cially stated that while Mr. Letcher
would make his report on conditions!
in Mexico, that was not the sole pur-1
pose of his trip. It was explained he
waB ordered here that routine matters!
might be taken up with hini. tut no j
inkling of their nature was given out.!
No Inkling on Note.
The department today received fur
ther advices fitora Spec
gers at Mexico City telliug
Bassett Watkin, Republican, (3) ...
Grif. Williams, Republican, (3)
MUNICIPAL PARK IS
DEDICATED SUNDAY
BY LARGE GATHERING
339
417
465
357
60
126
(By, Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. May 22. President
Wilson tonight completed a note tig-
nnuiolv m n u u in ir ihn nrmu. .1 K a
Supreme Hour Has Come United States, to Great Britain -
! Says Rome, As Teutons f"'"" in'"fe itb America.
Oieaauy rusn DaCK Italians j The communication is expected to
I
Over Great Front
i iic niajur uuu common council, lor?0yl ririn DDICAMCDC
the next two years, in the city of Bis- ,UUU rKlOUIifcKo
bee. will be Democratic, as the result1 TAKEN BY AUSTRIANS
of yesterday's municipal election ini
which several slates were overturned I
and in
had.
Seventy per cent of the registered '
vote was cast in the three wards, the '.
third ward as usual, polling the larg-'
go forward tomorrow. Secretary Lan
sing and legal experts at the State
Department made the draft of the
note and the President revised it
phraseology. It is made up largely of
legal arguments to meet the conten-
! est vote. The only two Republicans
Appropriate and Timely Pro- to 'get under the wire" were M. U ;
r;-n L Prnm;nnf But'er. candidate for city clerk against !
gram Uiven by rrominent Frank Walfth mnA Raase T waiktna i
Speakers in Offering Park candidate for alderman from the third : has struck,
to Service of Bisbee.
takes the position that practices com-
piuineu oi in its nrt note nave Deen
note that was in process of prepara- j n.id the most fitting of ceremonies,
it Itions of Great- liritain in the meninr-
several surprises were Hundred LUinon AlSO tall, ,andum. concurred in bv France Dre-
As Teutons Press On. Newi8en,wl 'be State Department sev-
P.Ur.L I7- M- f..t 1 'p weeks airo. The I nited States
wiiumi vivc lieu nura
Amara.
continued and that the American gov-
(By Review Leased Wire) j eminent must now insist more em
ROM E, May 22. "Italy's great t'our PhatiHy it cease.
is th. theme of the com- . f,,a!e '"tpent otlicial ccns.der
'ward, who ran far ahead of either ofi . . v j ... hat tne hlf weakness in the posi-
the Democratic candidates and ahead ! ment of ,he ,uW,c and th" vr nU'n of Grear Britain i, her tak.ng
;of his team mate. , , 'the news thut is being received from , neutral mrils into British ports and
Eisbee's new Cit park, wliich has! James Allison", Democratic candi-: the front. All the reports coming ,tt :tuV jn them to local ren-'orship
completed within the last few date for City Marshal, and C. A. Bat-;irom tr.e naming zone agree mat ii.e regulanns. T(ie British memorandum
irj iui suiwriiiieuurni ui pirreis, iw uumun .tuaui.ii tiwi-c " avoineu tins pnase OI lue question.
field has mare than doubled aud 'Rapid transmission was Dromied to
that the Austrian artillery especially -true correspondence- but the riirht
been
IV reCelVeU IUr- . , , . .... . . v, 1 ; n puuciiuicuurui ui PLtrcia, icu uuu
ial ARent iod-iwepks- Was dwlM,i!,1 lo ,h- p,'bl,c of.the Democratic ticket. The former: the
Hug of the new' 'he community Sunday afternoon a-.poiip(j 1139 votes while the latter poll-: thai
raiders of Glenn Springs and Boquil
las. have returned to American soil
near Boquillas.
Colonel Frederick W. Sibley, com
mander of the expedition, forded the
Rio Grande with the two troops of the
Fourteenth detailed to the pursuit
Trom Fort Clark late yesterday after
noon. Major George T. Lanhorne, at
the head of Troops A and B of the
Eighth, headquarters Fort Bliss, fol
lowed shortly after.
The expedition was in Mexico just
ten days. It failed to ca
out the main body of the Big Bend
marauders, but it made prisoners of
four of the bandits and left behind
two others desperately wounded. In
the hill. Major Howze was ordered to; addition it rescued Jesse Deemer. Bo-
DUt ; Apm'jxiuiately 1500 people heard the
ItS . : I 1 ; ... A. . ...1 n . 1 1 u unanbar. An
the message threw no light on
nnrr.'jrt. The communication will be 1
handed to Secretary Lansing byjhe program.
Eliseo Arredondo, ambassador design- witn banner
nt hut tht- emhanRv so far hM no I Welcome," gracing
Vnnvloilpo nt tho matter Mr Htdrrer'S band ftaud. With the BoyS
last message indicated that the r.'jte;One side jf the edifice and the Copper
'Our Governor is
the front of the
band on
ea 10.. Aiayor Adams was returnea heavy, long range guns, is daily in-u ixs rnnmhanii em in 1'.. n..iu
to oltice by a very small majority 39 creasing and making the imposing ar-, WB maintained.
The only Democrat, for clty:rav f Austrian forces more foruiid - u s. c;t tji
Frank ;8hle. . The !'3tiie convention of IstiT th.
, ... Cnited States contends, guarantees
I.n'm'. Vav 22. Hard flehtin? .u- i..sii.ii:. ...
In Rufler-H horn, ward enoueh t leav:, .. I l"r Km conwpon-
------ r. - -.is Rfiu in 11 rn " rnns nin utile - uji 1 1-
votes.
othce, to be defeated was
Walsh. Running ahead 59 votes in
Wards one and two Walsh fell behind
him defeated 104 votes.
The next council, which take, office "'18 ".1,a . . T. " , A. i in.-onveniences and actual mon
the first of the month, will consist ot 'I, . Xh. Ueni n. d Brit ey trm lh" tiaV'
five Democrats and one Republican. ?ferlun1 n ! Brlt : ance of the Briti.sh p.licy of takins
The mayor is also Democratic. , isn arounu ui aassee. neutral mail vessels into British ports
The third ward was cited for par-i The great offensive of the Austnans an(J thw exaulininK and delay,n(C tb.
Haanshin vooterWav until th final ginst the Italians In
The ceremonies opened win the un-, nfA .,.,. Tf ,i,.0 HiBoioa continues unabated, aud at several
furling or the flag over the band stand that a Republican Mayor, whose real-: positions the Austrians seem gradual- can DI5!,ini,a!l cf the British policr
i uis t-ervn:e we uuitmru uj ( iipnt'e was in warq i, ran tar aiivaa w iui j" "a iv .. v
: dence and the new mile again points
...... . I ., .vlnHn fwlnn.llM otnAn . V .
nture or wipe' uiu" "iruuj " "f
l Di tjh ! ference between Generals Scott
fall back on account of the progress
made at the conference between Wash
ington and Carranza officials for set
tlement of the- Mexican troubles.
ARMY SURGEON SUICIDES.
WASHINGTON, Mav 22 Col. Jno.
L. Phillips, surgeon in the army mcdi-1
of --. r. n ., H 7 el. it an.t lriltH !
himself at an array hospital here to
day. He had been in poor health
since he fell down an elevator shaft.
He formerly was surgeon general of
the Anson Hospital, Panama.
quillas storekeeper, and Sionrot
Payne, a negro kidnapped by the Mex
icans as they took their last desper
ate fling before fleeing south beyond
the international boundary.
The return of the expedition was
had not been sent forward and might Queen Miners Kana airecuy in iroui
not be sent for a day or so. and the speakers seated on the stand
While reports as to the situation ptoper. the new playground of the Dis
of the Carranza tUvernment are gloo-Urict was appropriately christened.
my the attitude of Mexican officials
towards the United States has l en
coa-and
Obregon.
116 Backsliders.
Reports fi'Jin General Funston that
116 members of the Texas national
guard had- refused to take mustering
oath and enter the federal service un
der the President's call, brought
members of companies from that state
to the war department today to find
out what action was in contem
ward their own territory. To the.
southeast of Trent, on the Lavarone;
Plateau. Vienna sars. the Italians' MANN WOULD ENFRANCHISE
from all their women of PORTO RICO
COL. ROOSEVELT
DELIGHTED OVER
BOOSTER CLUBS
His Lieutenant Von L. Meyer
Reports Clubs in Thirty
States Are ' Plugging for
Teddy's 'Preparedness.'
fEv Revie Leased W're)
OYSTKR PAY. May 22. In reply
to George Von L. Meyer, former sec
retary of the navy, who today official
ly notified him that the Roosevelt Re
publican Committee in thirty states
bad been organized to work for his
nomination for fie presidency by the
Republican party. Roosevelt enumer
ated the principles for which he was
firhting, and added:
"They are the principles you are
organizing to support and with all m
heart I welcome such support.
ior without the semblance of a line of
communication that it was in danger
unless there was no anti-American
eruption. With no hope of reinforce
ments, which had been declared un-
the Bisbee lodge of the Junior Uraei 0f the Democratic candidate. It show
oif American Mechanics who gave l ed i Democratic candidate for city
fiar m the rltv of Bisbee. Prof. C. F. marshal runninr far lead of his OD-
ih-:ihrnk in a few well chosen words ' nnnent for the same office. This was have been dtslodeed
on the value and the object of citi-j also true of the race Tor uperinten-1 p-jsitions and advise that the Austrt-.
'e-iship dedicated the flag to its fu- dent of streets. On the other hand ans have captured Fima Mandriclo' WASHINGTON. May 22. While th
inr Diaee in Bisbae's DrK Butler, a Republican, defeated Walsh and the height immediately west of. House was sitting as a committee of
if-i. t i ..i ... !-..,, . i,.. mrouKii ints Tuira ni nim luivn?. iu in imnr rrnm in. miuimii b.h mr km- - ""- - uuuu.t-u
i MiLrt nuiiit ' llt i uou iii.u v. imv, . . , - -
cotumittee in charge of the affair, pre the aldermanlc division the third ward ; ,he Ag,ach , Astit0) yaney.
.. retnrned on Renubllcan. Bassett unu D...r.
to flnd:ai amy ana. lonowing tne ra.sng ------ - ,Democra, Willilll ZZZ .k! 7
plation. of the nag. m roaucea .ne Kev. ra '"i "! ""..i: """" which would permit women
no oneru a prayer ior. , AVi,i.-. th. A.lm.n r th. of the island to vote. It was ad anted
P"- . . ' rmo7rtic City Central Committee. ' ""7 2J: ' ' Demormu as prepar-
Aaams. to wnom. . nH ,n attnrtl,, i-w. -ih. In all ""r " " v'"" ed to strike it out tomorrow on a roll
visers are preparing rejinmendations i i'h Charles Cunningham, alderman robability. be rewarded for his actlv
: members on the floor. Republican !ea-
i der Mann offered an amendment to
offensive l"w rurl" goverumeut recogni-
imperative for strategical reasons. It i They the matter had not , c-r Mandin who o
had penetrated so far into the In.er- J If"i" r,Slt,J-.iJa.,.4.':'L.C?2:! MT .thi?
i :.i . . v- wi- u DMici.uuu. uanci a iiuiiiai, ou-, I inn an Blinrurf 11 law. win, iu n . ., . . i n i ,,n,t
visers are preparing remmendations i h Charles Cunningnam, alderman rob bIitT be rwarded for his actlr-. ' ,,ru"" ''"',,'""" '. " ";:; call vote in the House.
. I .1,. .... o rA i. A., ih. ..rsHit .. . . . .1. - n have been taltcn prisoners ana 1 - .
ior mm unuer me existing nuiiiia uw "' - . lty ana ..4lB tonouii 01 mr in-uiuv i iu ksn Vontnre.t hv th
and it is known that some offlcers be-'of seeing the park from a dream to a canlpaign by the appointment as city;"non Deen rapiureu oy me.
. - .! , , . . i . w j . h. 'Austrians.
continue its foray. Then. too. the
train object of its campaign had been
i accomplished in the release of Deem
er and Payne.
Movie Men Went Too
News of the return of Colonel Sib
ley and Major Langhorne reached
Morathon almost a day after it had
Ibeen safely accomplished. Two mov
ing picture photographers, who accom
panied he invaders, brought the first
story. It was verified later in the day
In dispatches to Captain John Cham
bers, bae quartermaster.
150 Mile Into Mexico '
According to the information reach
ine here, Major Langhorne with his
advance detachment, oenetrnted be
tween 1K0 and 175 miles into Mexico
before he turned northward again.
Colonel Sibley, taking an easier pace
was well to his rear at all times in a
position either to push forward to his
aid or to cut off any enemy that
mleht try a flank attack.
After the release of Deemer and
Payne last week, seventy miles from
Boquillas. part of Langhorne's com
mand, under Lieut. Cramer, engaged
a small band of raiders, capturing six
of whom two were wounded. It soon
Mr. Meyer headed a delegation of crew aonarent. however, that there
25 mem bers of the committee. In his i was no hope of waylavlng the mater!
lieve they should be tried and fined i reality, then presented the deed of the . attorney. i w- , f v-.,t m.-k is PHI film IP III IIIDm
ii-i ! nnrlr s to .n the r tT attorney R. J.I Tli nther nfflrM in be Blled DV tne l"r -,. ... - llirH l III llinril
available, w was Imnossible for it to " " "" u ' r.L .UI - "'"n . ..j.j-h .... French and Germans claim successes WW LU1I.II IW IllJWIIkU
: , . .(general mat tney are unaertaKing a rieiumn, mr mu wim me piup- majui u i-" . . . -.,. .
serious responsibility in joining the authorities in TomDstone. The city erai win De leu as iney mm now.
Organization. The secretary himself ! attorney accepted the deed in a few
has postponed a study of the law in well chosen words.
the case until all the facts are before ! The dedication speech was made by
him.
Yaquis Less Active.
A state department announcement
late today said the situation in the
Yaqui Valley did not appear to be
acute at presenL The Yaquis are re
ported lj have headquarters at Bampe.
speech of notification, he told Mr.
Roosevelt that one of the purposes o.
the committee was to "aid the Repub
lican party in getting before the coun
try-reunited and in full strength, with
a candidate wbo is listened to and
trusted by the great mass of the peo
pie. ,
wfre visitors at the Roosevelt home
and witnessed the notification.
ty of the raiders, as they had split up
and fled in various directions. It was
decided to turn back. In the mean
time. Colonel Sibley, well in the rear
is supposed to have received reports
at a force of Yaqui Indians was get
tine nerilously ear to the advanced
detachment. Whether or not there
was rood ground for believing this re
nort is not known here. At any rate
Rev. Harshman. who praised the ob
ject of the park, its beauty, its possi
bilities for good and the spirit behind
its erection.
City Attorney Flanigan spoke in
general words of praise for the work
but particularly of the activity of the
two men whose perserveranc.e is re-
LUTHERANS TO MERGE. sponsible for the park Mayor Adams
MINNEAPOLIS. May 22. The Nor-land Charles Cunningham. Along the
wegian Lutheran Synod, meeting here general lines of citizenship the attor
in extraordinary session, today decid-iney touched briefly and concluded bis
ed to merge with the I'nited Norwe- talk with a general eulogy of the park
gian Lutheran Synod, at its meeting i nn,i ls objects.
next month, even if the Hauge Norwe-! n.. Rrewwter in a hannv manner.
gian Lutheran Synod rejects the ap- addressed the crowd. He more than
plication for union. The united church s,.cured tne audience's interest at the
adopted the union some time ago andj8t wit lne assertion that it "wa.
the Norwegian Lutheran Synod ac- .. ....:. .t n. nr. i,( .k
NO CONTEST IN DOUGLAS.
DOUGLAS. May 22. There was no
contest on here in the city election
with the exception of the candidate
for the mayor. William Adamson was
elected by a majority of 509. The
other officer elected were Fred Lin
der. citv clerk; W. W. Benson, city
Marshall: John Bouldin afreet super
intendent; Aldermen: Joe Slater, Lea
He Floyd, O. K. Jones
T. Boyd and W. b
I for their arms at Various points. An
interesting point in the latest rrenrb;
official communication is the slate-1
ment that the French have penetrated
Fort L'juaumont, northeast of erdun.
which tbe Germans stormed and cap
tured February 25, four days after the
commencement of the ansault on
Verdun, and from which all attempts
to drive them out proved futile. The
Germans, however, still lAild the
northeastern Dart of Fort DouamonL
P. P. Glenn. W. a violent attack also has netted the
Jacks. The French several German nositions Vci
BY SPEEDING MACHINE
ALONG WARREN ROAD
cepted it last Saturday despite prev
ious threats of anti-Unionists to se-
failo Tia ennatitntlnn Imn hepn re-
jected by the Hauge Synod once and'i,a builders and concluded with
Question of installing side walks car- - front of aDout a mile and a Quarter
ried by a vote of 309 to M Martin tbe east of ,ne vinaRe of Douatuont.
prohibition candidate for mayor recelv-j Tne 8ituation generally 'on the Rus
ed 285 votes. Adamson 785. sla front remains unchanged.
' The British operations against the
! Turks in Mesopotamia gradually are) above the ankle.
Private Griffin, of Company G
Eighteenth Infantry, Has
leg Broken by Machine
Which Never Stops. .
FREE SEEDS APPROPRIATION
CUT OFF BY COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON. May 22. The agrl-
a large congregation. - Kev. urewster ( cultural appropriation diii was reporv
neaped rnore praise on tne para ana
bit
opposition is .reported to he strong.
Colonel Sibley marched forward, and present at least.
it appears from the information
brought to Marathon, joined Major
Langhorne at El Pino.
100 miles in 3 days
From there, it is reported, they pro
ceeded in company to the border,
making 100 miles intervening between
El Pino and Boquilles In three days.
Are At Boquillas
According to Captain Chambers.
Col. Sibley and Major Langhorne now
are resting their commands in camp
at Boquillas while awaiting further in
structions. It is not believed here that
they will go back into Mexico for th
for Governor Hunt. and. particularly.
his prison policies.
Governor Hunt, following a stirring
and euloeistic introduction by Walter
Holm. Holm literally sailed into his
subject. The Governor read from man
uscript.
. The executive lauded the park. Its
objects and its value to a community
such as Bisbee. The press of Arizona
which he characterized with consider
able vehemence as "subsidized." was
not overlooked either In the introduc
tion of his speech or in tbe body of it.
Frank P. Walrh. chairman of the
commission on industrial relations,
was held up by the Governor for much
(Continued oa Pace 4)
a large number of their officers and
men who were recently surrendered
are still being held captives. The
British who have been reinf.irced by
Russian cavalry now have reached the
region immediately south of Kut-el-Amara.
German Steamer Sunk.
The German steamer Worms, 4.428
Private Gritfln. of Company G.
Eighteenth Infantry, camped near the
Country Club, while walking tJ the
ramp Sunday evening, was struck by
an auto and his left leg wan broken
The soldier was
A. hospital where
ed out of committee today carrying
$23,900,000. a reduction of nearly
1750.000 from the total as passed by
the House. The committee cut it in i
half $2,500,000 provided by the House
frtrt oV,j mmith riiaaaaa eradication i
and eliminated entirelv $200,000 allow-1 ons. is believed to have fallen victim
ed for free distribution of seed. The,o alleged aubniarines in the Baltic
items for general expense of, the ahi-1 Sea. Violent canrAmading heard in
mal industry and soils bureau were In : the Baltic off the Swedish coast leads
creased about $:)86.0O0. If the bill j to the belief that German and Rus
passes as reported there will be a sian warships have been in an engase
fieht in the conference as the house ! ment,
always insists upon its frea. seeds
O'KEEFE OUTBOED.
LONDON. May ;2..Tbe
middleweight rhampln pugilist. Tat
O'Keefe. lost his match with Bands
man Rlake at the National Spoiling
club last ni. lit.
CARRANZA SOON TO
) CALL GENERAL ELECTION
British. MEXICO CITY. Mav 22. -The de
partment of the interior reports that
Genera! Carranza will issue a decree
within a few day announcing a gen
eral election.
be is now reported to be resting easily,
i Griffin, with two companions, had
been in Bisbee during the evening and
started home about 9 o'clock. About
9:30 they had reached a point nt-ar the
street railway crossing of the paved
Warren road, just before the i".ad
enters the town of Warren proper.
The three men noticed an automobile
coming behind them and got ofT the
throughfare.
The machine, however, waa going
fast and struck Griffin, who was near
est to the road, knocking him down
and dragging him quite a ways. In
stead of stopping the auton.'obile driv
er added to his speed, apparently,
never haltine to ascertain whether he
had hurt the pedestrian or not. The
finding of some broken gla?s near the
scene of the accident led those wli'j
looked the ground over te the con
clusion that the right front light of
the machine was broken.
