rni
, Weather forecast:
Showers Today; Tomorrow Fair
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
HOME
EDITION
NTJMBEB 8009.
WASHINGTON, TUESDAY EVENING, MAY 23, , 1910.
PBICE ONE OENT.
FORT DOUAUMONT WAIIE
ROOSEVELT SHUNS
POLITICS DURING 4
HOURS STAY HERE
Presides Over General
Federation of Women
AS DOCTOR TELLS OF
DEATH OF VICTIM
a
GROWS
HOUSE VOTE TODAY
MS DEATH KNELL
OF HAM-HALF
Riders on Budget Bill Expooted
To Be Fatal Senate May
Save Remnants.
i
TAKEN BY FRENCH
IN FURIOUS FIGHT
Germans Driven From Verdun Outpost in
Desperate Ail-Night Combat- Hand-to-Hand
Battle Still Raging at North
east Corner of Ruins.
HILL 304 UNDER
PARIS, May 23. In all night fighting of the most fur
ious character, the French expelled the Germans from all
but the northeastern corner of Fort Douaumont, the war
office announces.
Heavy German attacks on both banks of the Meuse
were entirely repulsed, except north of Thiaumont farm, on
the east bank, where the Germans reoccupied a trench cap
tured recently by the French.
The battle on the Verdun front continued with the
most extreme violence throughout last night and was still
in progress when official dispatches were filed from army
headquarters early today.
The Germans are offering desperately heroic resistance
amid the ruins of Fort Douaumont.
Violent hand-to-hand fighting has been going on in the
fort since the French entered the position yesterday, the
French continuing to throw the enemy from his positions.
GERMANS DRIVEN OUT.
The Germans, who held the northern rim of the fort
yesterday afternoon, were driven from the northwestern
corner in last night's fighting. The French are strength
ing their positions in the rest of the work, expecting im
mediate German counter-attacks. ' - -jr
On the west bank of the Meuse, northwest of Verdun,
the Germans launched several furious attacks against Hill
304. By using liquid fire and gas, enemy troops entered a
French trench on the hill, but were immediately thrown out
by a brilliant charge.
East of Hill 304 the Germans again attempted to out
flank French positions by a heavy attack.
The most violent fighting continues east of the Meuse
on the whole sector from Thiaumont to Douaumont fort..
The Germans are resuming mass attacks and have suffered
fearful losses, the French war office stated.
PARIS IS JUBILANT.
The trl-color of Franco fluttered
everywhere in the French capital today
In celobratlon of the most striking vic
tory won by tho French since the great
battle at Verdun began.
Tho public has been worked Into a
frenzy of excitement by the official
word that French forces have re-entered
Fort. Douaumont, storming Ger
man positions on a front of a mile, and
a quarter. Announcement of further
gains on the west bank of the Meuso
has convinced tho French people that
the Dead Man's Hill positions are al
most impregnable to German assault.
News of brilliant French victories on
the Verdun front was only partly offset
by reports of British losses near Vlmy
rldgo. Tho German rush at this point
was largely a defensive action. The
Bavarians thrust back tho Urltlsh lines
to remove a threat against their own
positions when the British begin their
long expected offensive.
Tho most violent hand-to-hand fight
ing on the western front in many weeks
has been going on on tho whole Verdun
front since Saturday night. The slaugh
ter on tho hills northwest of Verdun,
vital positions to the French, has been
growing moro deadly every hour.
Tronches have been pounded to dUBt
on tho shell-swept slopes where German
and French Infantrymen lock bayonets
In death struggles. ..... ,
It IsWully realized here that the real
struggle for Verdun Is being waged on
Hill 3H Dead Man's Hill and connected
positions west of the Mouse.
Whllo rejoicing In the French suc
cesses northeast of Verdun, the publlo
Is not losing sight of tho Importance of
tho Dead Man's Hill fighting.
Furious Battle Rages
About Fort Douaumont
BERLIN. Moy 23. German troops
captured a Frcnr.h blockhouse south of
Camard forest, northwest of Verd(in, In
vory violent fighting around tho fortiess
last night, the war office announces.
Tho war office ruports that n ftirlouff
lattlo Is raging nrounrt the ruins of Port
Dauaument. but that tho position re
mains In aerman hands.
Austrians Erfering
Way Toward Vicenza
GENEVA, May 23. Despite the most
stubborn resistance, tho armies of the
Austrian crown prlnco are pressing
iiteadUy forward against Vicenza, the
Italian "Verdun," on the first anniver
sary of Italy's declaration of war.
Austrian artillery has begun a bom
bardment of the snow-capped peak of
Mnnto I'asublo, twenty-one miles north
west of Vlcenzn. The position has been
strongly fortified by the Itallntis. It bars
tho northern entrunco Into valleys lead
ing directly Into tho northern Italian
plain, less than ten miles distant
Tho whole Tyrol U- now the seen
SAVAGE ATTACK
of most desperate fighting. South of
Rovereto, the Italians are making a
stand near Bereavalle, captured In their
advance up tho Aldgo valley last sum
mer. Italian guns on the rldge of Mont
Balde are sending great shells scream
ing across the Intervening gorges
against the attacking enemy forces.
On Italian Soil.
East and southeast of Roverete the
Austrians have crossed Into Italian soil
at three different places. Rome re
ports furious fighting In this region
of sec-saw character, with hand-to-(Continued
on Page Twelve.)
RUSSIANS DRIVING
TURKS ON BAGDAD
London Daily Chronicle Predicts
Capture of Turkish Rear Guard.
LONDON. May 2J.-Tho Turks have
begun to fall back on Bagdad because
of tho Russian advance, said the Dally
Chronicle today, commenting on tho
British advance at Kut-El-Amara.
Bocauso of the difficulties of moving
troops from the Kut-El-Ainnra region,
the Turkish rear guard will have great
difficulty In escaping capture in tho re
treat on Bagdad, the Chronlcte added.
DISCONTINUES ORDER
RESTRAINING STRIKERS
Defendants Show Justice McCoy
No Violence Is Intended,
I On hearing of the motion to dissolve
tho restraining order yesterday after
noon, Justice McCoy In the case of the
Washington and Old Dominion railway
against tho striking employes of the
company, announced that in view of tho
answers filed by the defendants dis
claiming any acta of violence or any
Intention to commit any Injury to the
company or employes of the road, he
would sign an order discontinuing the
rest mining order, and without any
prejudice to tho railway company In
the present suit to renew Its applica
tion for an Injunction In the event of
showing grounds therefor. Attorney
Crandnl Mackey represented the de-
renasnts, wmio Attorney wnton J.
Lambert appeared for the railway com.
nnny.
An order was filed by tho railway
company discontinuing proceedings
against a numoor or tne defendants,
who have returned to work. The ores.
ent action applying only to tho Dis
trict, the restraining orders granted by
ins circuit ana rcuerai courts oi vir
Binla axe still In effect.
Dentist-Poisoner Loses Jaunty
Air as Autopsy on Peck Is
Ro-enacted.
NEW SENSATIONS PROMISED
State Hints at Evidence Here
tofore Unrevealed To Trace
Poison' Purchase.
NEW YORK. May 21. When Dr.
Arthur Warren Walte, cool, calm, and
precise as ever, walked Into court to
day for the second session of his trial
on the charge of poisoning his father-
in-law, John E. Peck, of Grand Rap
Ids, Dr. A. A. Moore, the Walte fam
ily physician, was recalled to the
stand for continuation of his cross-
examination. He was questioned as
to his story of Peck's death.
Dr. V. C. Vaughn, of the University
of Michigan, who examined the brain
and viscera of Peck, determining that
the arsenlo found In tho body had been
administered boforo death, was the
next witness sworn.
As he took the stand, two Jars con
taining the viscera of Peck were In
troduced as evidence.
Walto'a visage was grim as the grue
some exhibits woro handled by tho wit
ness. He had been looking about frank,
ly until that moment. lie lowered his
gaxe to the floor.
At this Juncture Percy Pock, son of
the poisoned millionaire, his wife, and
Miss Catherine Peck entered. Mrs. Peck
and Miss Peck sat with their faces
turned from Walte. Perk gazed Intently
at him.
Dr. Vaughn told In detail of tho ex
amination of the stomach of Peck and
said arsenic was found. He showed the
lury test tubes containing arsenic taken
from the stomach. The first two tests,
said Vaughn, showed JV4 grains of
arsenic Borne was lost In the chemi
(Continued on Second Page.) '
TAFT. 0. K.
FORTBftCE'MAKERS
Both Would Be Acceptable to
German Socialists, Philip
Schiedemann States.
By CARL W. ACKERMAN.
BERLIN, May 23,-nither President
Wilson or former President Taft would
be acceptable to German Socialists as a
peaco maker, Philip Schcldemann,
Gorman socialist leader, stated today.
The appointment of a new "food dic
tator" In Germany, Schiedemann add
ed, "will destroy allied hopes of vic
tory through the blockade, and compel
England to make peace."
"The socialists are always for peace,"
said Schiedemann, who recently Inter
pellated the chancellor In the Reichstag
on peace discussions. "I personally am
convinced that the chancellor desires
peaco. Ho has so Indicated twlco In
Reichstag speeches, and once In tho note
to America. Reichstag members believe
that if Germany solves tho food prob
lem now. England will be compelled to
make peace, because In this manner
tho blockado problem will be solved.
"There Is enough food tor all In Ger
many. What Is needed Is absoluto con
trol and distribution. The Gorman
states must supply Berlin, which for
merly depended upon outnldo states to
fed her. Wurlemburg. for Instance,
enn send bacon and Ruvnria butter.
"The appointment of a food dictator
will bo an important step politically.
Hitherto the small states directed their
own af'alrs. This step created an Im
perial office.
"Tho states hsvo fought side by side
at the front and now wo call upon them
to put tholr foodstuffs ride by side. If
this Is done, there will be enough to
supply all until tho crops are harvested.
"The shortage of tho next fuw weeks
will not force us to surrender and beg
for peace. Our armies still haVo plenty
of punch, as 1 Illustrated by the Aus
trian offensive."
Fake Auction Bill
To Be Reported Out
House District Committee Ap
proves of Measure Favored
By Merchants.
The House District Committee to
day voted to report favorably the
bill to prohibit "fake auctions." This
bill Is one, of the measures advocated
by the Retail Merchants' Association
and drawn by Chairman Bon John
son, of the District Committee, after
consultation with membera of tho as
sociation and the corporation coun
sel's office.
It Is provided that hereafter all
auctioneers shall obtain a written
permit from the District Commis
sioners to sell at auction any stock
or stocks of morchandlso "and the
said District Commlsloners shall not
Issue a permit for any such sale or
sales until they are satisfied that
neither fraud nor deception of any
kind Is contemplated or will be prac
ticed, and that neither the sale, the
roasons therefor, nor the goods to
be sold have not already been or will
not thereafter be fraudulently or
iaiseiy aavenisea or in nny wise
whatsoever misrepresented."
The bill provides for a fee for
Issuance of every license to auction,
such fee not to excoed the sum of
WILSON
150, Application for tho license shall
go fully into details regarding the
character of tho auction.
1
SBBBBBBBBBBBBBMVStBBBBBBBBBBFStr 'LmUmUmuW itsBSBBSBSBBBsWVH
BSBBBBBBBBBBBBBsKfrlBBBBr S V MjSBBBBBBsLd' PBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbVsH
bbbbbbbsbbbbP'tIbbbbbbbI W "" bbbbbbbbY'bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
HHBV jSMBE iljj t TBBBBBbT laBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
WmWmmWW& '-ssbbbbbbbbbbbbbs!
bbbbB'W'K Jsbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb!
WSm' ssbbbbbbbbbbbbb!
BMM2 '!BBfc 4'JBSBMBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbV
BBBX2sBBt PSBBb.SBBTBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBl
bbbbbbbiI'bbI 'FIbbbbbbbbbbbbbI
iSBBBBBBBBBK ''3muWMKst
iSBBBBBBBBBBBBBjtBH
bbbbbbbbbbbbHIssbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbI
k Mg?'tavJSBBBBBBBBBB S
MRS. PERCY V. PENNYPACKER.
OVER PRESIDENCY
Bitter Fight Between Two Can
didates for Federation Honor
in New York.
NEW YORK. May 2J.-A pitched bat
tle between the Far West and the
Middle West, for the presidency of
tho Federation of Women's Clubs of
America is under way In the mam
moth Soventh Regiment Armory here
today. t
'It began even before Mrs. Percy V.
PennVnackcr. of Texas, called to ordr
the 50,000 clubwomen gathered' for
inareaerauon-a mennimi national con
mention. . VV ' JL? "
The contest has simmered down to
two candidates who would succeed.
Mrs. Pennypacker. They are Mrs.
Samuel B. Sneath, of Tiffin, Ohio, now
first vice president, and Mrs. Joseph
Evans Cowlcs, of Los Angeles.
Both Mrs. Cowles and Mrs. Sneath
have mobilized their campaign forces
with the shrewdness of Tammany
politicians, and both tho floor and
galleries of the convention at the
onenlng hour were the scenes of as
frenzied electioneering. Jockeying for
position, trading between delegations
ana tne iiko as ever cnaracterizea a
political convention.
Had Many Offices.
Mrs. Cowles has served tho general
federation as director, treasurer, mem
ber of the executive committee, chair
man of the finance and peace commit
tees, first vice president, and as chair
man of the St. Paul biennial program
committee, Mrs. Cowles said today:
"Tho successive offices I have held
betoken my unqualified Interest in
the principles and wide opportunities
of wide federation. In recognition
of the honor conferred by this nom
ination to the highest position In the
gift of women's clubs, I would faith
fully and loyally render back all for
which trained service stands, together
with devotion and an earnest sense of
tho vision."
Mrs. Sneath nlso Is a clubwoman
of wide cxperlonce. She Is n native
of Ohio and worked first with Its
women and for Its Interests, but for
mnny years she has been connected
ns well with the larger organlia
tlons of the general federation as
second and first vice president.
She was responsible for tho pro
gram of tho 1914 convention In Chi
cago. She also perfected the out
line of the departments of work in
he general federation. Mrs. Sneath
today said:
"The only honor In holding office
Is in service well rendered. My first
desire Is for a good federation a
(Continued on Page Seven.)
SUBMARINE SINKS
A GREEK STEAMER
Adamantios Korals Goes Down in
Mediterranean.
LONDON, May 23. Tho Greek steam
er Adamantios Korals tins been punk
by a submarino in tho Mediterranean.
Tho Adamantios Korals displaced
z.471) tons. he wns built in
registered at Piraeus, the
Athens.
ls and
port ot
LONDON. Mny 23,-The iiS-ton "West
Hartlepool steamer Rhcnas has boon
suntc.
LONDON, May ZB.-The l.WO-ton Nor
weTlan steamer TJomo has been tor
pedoed. Burglars Make Haul
At People's Drug Store
Burglars entered the People's Drug
Btore, 927 Seventh street northwest, be
tween 11:30 last night and 7: CO this
morning, and robbed three cash regis
ters of $57.
Three telephone booths wcro broken
open and tho contents stolen. Tho rob
btjri made away also with thrco safety
rnzors, Moued at K each, and a number
of 2-cen stamps.
A rear window was forced. Report
of the robbery was made to the police
todav by Joseph L. Loveless, manager
of the etore.
Game Called Off.
Wet grounds prevented to
day's ball game between Wash
ington and Chicago.
CLUBWOMEN
CLASH
G.O.P. READY FOR FILIBUSTER
Mann Charges Trickery In At
tempt to Push Forward
Naval Appropriation.
After passing a special rule making
In order the legislative "riders" on
the District appropriation bill, teh
House became Involved today In a
partisan row that Indicated the Re
publicans may filibuster on the Dlt
trlct budget to stave off consideration
of the naval appropriation bill until
after the Chicago convention.
Congressman Mann, the Republican
floor leader, said the Democrats were
about to play "an Indescent trick" by
Jamming tho naval bill through on the
eve of the convention when many
Republicans would desire to be In
Chicago. Mr. Kltchln, tho majority
leader, denied this, but said It was
planned to tako up tho naval bill as
soon as the District budget passes.
For a few minutes there was much
excitement In the House with parti
san charges going across tho aisle.
The rule on the District bill was
adopted by a vote of 17t to 136.
This vote shows conclusively that the
Houso Is In favor of tho repeal ot the
half-aiid-hair rrlnclplc. which Is vir
tually accomplished by onq of the rid
ers on tho District budget. However, It
was a foregono conclusion that tho
Houso would vote In favor of making
such a rider privileged and If a Mm
bianco of the old half-and-half principle
(Continued on Second Page.)
MEXICANS
WON BORDER
Carranzista Movement Gives
Concern to Officials of the
War Department.
Official reports to the State Depart
ment telling of the movement north
ward toward the border of an army ot
20,000 Carra-nzlstns. were viewed with
concern In the ar DeWpartment today.
The reports stute that the Carran
sdatas aro Icing sent northward from
Saltlllo, Durnns". and other garrisons
In central Mexico, ostensibly for the
purpeso. of operating npilnst tho Vll
llsta banc.ltB south of the Big Ecnd dis
trict of Texas. here the vanguard of
these forces now Is tins not been dis
closed, but the Information has been
forward to Major Oenornl Funston In
order that ho might prepare Brigadier
Goncral Pershing's lorccs for any
t'vcniuu lines.
About 12,000 In Mexico.
The suspicion In certain official quar
ters hero Is that the movement' of Car
ranzlatas has somo relation to the new
note which Carranza Is said to bo send
ing to the United States rcno wing Tils
demands for a withdrawal of Pershing's
forces from Mexican territory.
With the second American punitive
expedition undor Colonel Sibley already
withdrawn from Mexico, the total num
ber ef American troops on tho other
side of the border now numbers about
12,000. While army officials believe that
Pershing could give an excellent ac
count of himself despite the discrepancy
In numbers, they do not want him to be
taken bv surprise.
Conditions generally In Mexico are de
scribed in official dispatches as being
chaotic.
Famine Reported.
Famine Is reported again In northern
Mexico, and tho people are said to be
growing desperate from hunger
Marlon P. Fletcher, United States con
sul at Chihuahua, arrived In Washing
ton today, and will confer late this
nfternoou or tomorrow with Acting
Secretary of State Polk. Ha will be ex.
pected to give u complete resume of
the situation In northern Mexico.
Following lO'luy'n meeting of the Cabi
net, Secretary of War Baker declared
that no chance of policy has been de
elded upon, nnd no new orders for
. troop movements.
RUlwnCLTldH tllfW CLV
UW'M'iilW VV Ul
Credit Is Asked For
30.000
Asquith Explains Need of Loans
to Allied Nations to Con
tinue Operations.
LONDON, May 23. Premier Asquith
this afternoon moved In Commons a
now war credit for J1,ji.O,000,OX, bringing
the total appropriations since tho be
ginning of the war to Jll,9OO,0O0,OO0.
In urging tho passage of the new
credits, the prime minister declared
that without loans from England, the
allies would be unable to continue their
combined operations successfully. He
said that England cannot hope at this
tlma to diminish her loaris to,hor al
lies, or to her dominions, and declared
It would bo unwise to count on Eng
land's war expenditures falling below
J2U6C.O00 a day,
The expenditure for tho past fifty
days alone have been about $1,205,000,000,
tho premier stated, an overage of JI,
lOO.Ooo a iay,
I
Former President Displays Old Time Strenu
ousness on Visit to Capital, But Parries
All Reference to Candidates With State
ment, "Pm Not Talking Today."
CROWD CHEERS HIM AT COURT
Colonel Also Faces Battery of Cameras As
He Steps From Automobile Hurries
Back to New York After Testifying.
Col. Theodore Roosevelt spent a busy very busy
four hours in Washington today, but he did not do the one
thing everybody wanted him to do, that is he did not talk
politics.
From the time he arrived, which was shortly after 7 .
o'clock, until he left at 1 1 o'clock, the Colonel was on the
go almost continuously. He was beset -by newspapermen
and others who fired questions at him designed to draw him
out along political lines, but he parried all such questions in
a skillful manner or answered emphatically that he would
not discuss politics.
The Colonel came down from New York to appear as a
character witness on Jjehalf of C. C. Clover and others of
the Riggs Bank officials who are on trial for perjury. He
wasMn'fotnt about fifteen minutes, but the fact of his pres
ence had been advertised in advance and a big crowd was
attracted.
CROWD GATHERS TO SEE COLONEL.
Colonel Roosevelt reached the City Hall about seven
minutes before court convened. He found on the sidewalk,
despite the rain, a mixed gathering of prominent citizens,
attorneys, newspaper correspondents, photographers, police
men, bankers, cab drivers, and other admirers of the former
President.
As he strode briskly up the sidewalk to the Court House
door a battery of cameras clicked.
It was probably the hundredth thousandth time that the
Colonel .had been photographed and it did not feaze him
one bit. N
Arriving at the Court House, steps, while the crowd
hemmed him in from all sides, Colonel Roosevelt turned to
tne newspapermen and said:
"I have not a thing to say. I haven't seen anybody
since I arrived except my daughter and son-in-law. I'm just
here to testify and am going right back to New York by
noon. There is no other object in my visit except to testify
at this trial."
"NOT TALKING TODAY."
When tho Colonel was aiked if ho
would comment on his Presidential
boom, the Hunnes boom, or the aspir
ations of various favorite sons, lio
Rrlnned In a typlcul Uooieveltian
wav. and responded:
"Not a thing, not a thing. I'.m not
talking about anybody today,"
Colonel Roosevelt (tinn tiu.HA4 Iia,ii
the narrow doorway of tho corridor '
which leads directly to Justice Slddons
court. Frank J. Hogau in1 John B.
Stanchfleld, of counsel for the de
fendants In the perjury cbm did their,
best to form themsnlvej Into n bllna
wedge to get thtough the corrldoi
throngs. They wero arslnted by a
couple of court ofTlcera, who seemed I
hdoui am excuca over uifl uoioueis
vmii m ino uvcrufcc spectator.
-rvBiJiia ma umi wcnwier BQverm Hun
dred persons congregated at the sev
eral doors to the court room and In
effectual sought admittance to hoar
tho Colonel testiry.
The deputy marshals, under Marshal
Splaln, had their hands full, and the
marshal assisted once or twice In
keeping corridors and doorways reason
able clear.
"Our Next President."
Prior to tho arrival of Colonel Hooso
velt tho waiting crowds were busy
talking politics. The Colonel wos re
ferred to during these conversations as
the "ex-President" only to have some
one correct the speaker and assert that
you menn tho "next President."
Mr. Roosevnlt como to the Court
liouno In an automobile driven by Con
gressman Nicholas Longworth.
Mrs, Longworth also accompanied her
father to the court room.
A round of handclapolng and a few
cries of "HI, there. Teddyl" greeted '
Mr. nnmnVAlt Iia itnnnAd fvm un I
automobile. Colonel Roosevelt lifted his
hat and rmlled at his admirers, recog-
nlzlnir n fAW Old WHflhlntrtnn frlAnH. In
tho crowd. - v . )
Even the jury roso to a man and par
tlclpatad In tho applause, Colorol
Itooifovtlt kpont tho Intervening mo
ments until court convened Kh.iklng
hands with frlonls. He first greeted Mr.
i.iovcr, in wnose iMitan ne Cjrm to,
Washington. Senator Newiands and'
others shook hands with tho Colonel
ictore in." court convened.
Colonel Roosevelt urrlved In Union
Station on the train which left New
.York last midnight His only boggago
was a miniature suit case, which looked
as If It would hold no moro than a
clean collar or two. He was unaccom
panied, but In his wake lurked two New
rork newspaper men who had "trailed"
thf fTolnnnl .ilnwn hor.
Tho Colonel' daughter, and her hus
band, Congrosnimn "Nick" Longworth,
met him at t.ie station, and whirled
him off in Mrs. Longworth's new llmo
slne to breakfast at the Longworth
home, 17.16 M street.
Sees Only Old Friends.
While there, he denied himself to all
Callers Who did not noaaeR thn nrnnr
pass word. Any suggestion that politics
or publicity was the purpose of a caller
was met by the Longworth butler with
the statement that he "wouldn't dare
disturb the Colonel." But when any
one could truthfully say that he was
a personal friend of the former Presi
dent's arrived, ho was immediately re
ceived. Henry White, former ambassador w
ranee, drove up about 8:30 o'clock.
whl'Pcred, to the butler that he was an
old friend of the Colonel's, and disap
peared for at least fifteen minutes, dur
ing which time, he afterward said, h
was renewing his acquaintance.
tfihlnd him came u bent, white mus
tached eldorly man. who wouldn't tell
the newspapermen his name. He was
afterward Identified by Mr. Longworth
as Major Locfflor, who during the
Roosevelt regime, was doorkeeper at
the hlto House. He. too, spent about
ton minutes in conversation with tho
Colonel.
Attorneys Call.
Bhortly bofore 9 o'clock, Attorney
Krank J. Hoa-nti nnrl .TnVin n at.niti..
field, who represent Mr. plover, called
una remaineu witn tno Colonel until
H5 o'clock, when Iho cntlro party
down bes'do his daughter.
Unnv nlrl frlAnrl. tf thn. fnwr TV-..,
dent had gathered oulslde the court, and
several times ho stopped to shako hands
with them. Ho has apparently aban-
