BAR1RE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 59.
BARRE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, MAY 23, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
THE
FRENCH RE-TAKE
GREATER PART
OF DOUAUMONT
Fort Which Has Been in the Possession
of Germans Since the First Few Days
of the Verdun Drive Was Captured
After Heavy Bombardment and Bril
liant Infantry Attack
CARRANZA ORDERS
30,000 TO REGION
SOUTH OF BORDER
This Order Increases the Original Army
Sent to Police the Territory By
20,000 Soldiert.
MAIL SEIZURE
MUST CEASE
Interference with American
Mail Protested by
Pres. Wilson
GERMANS OUT-MANOEUVRED
BY GENERAL NIVELLE
French General, Taking Advantage of
German Concentration on Dead Man's
Hill, Brought Up Great Amount of
Artillery and Hammered His Way to
Victory Germans Re-Capture Trench
Near Thiaumont
Paris, May 23. Fighting continued with extreme violence on
both banks of the Meuse along the Verdun front during the whole
night. Two German counter-attacks on French positions on hil
304 failed completely, the war office announced this afternoon.
The French made further gains within Fort Douaumont, and the
Germans now hold only a small angle in the northeastern corner
of the fort. , ,
The battle around hill 304 was especially severe. In attacking
the French positions on the west side of the hill, the Germans used
liquid gas, the official statement says, and penetrated one of the
French trenches but were dislodged at dnce. On the east side of
the hill, the Germans attacked in mass formation and are said to
have suffered enormous losses. They succeeded in reoccupying
one of the trenches north of Thiaumont farm, which had been
captured by the French.
The recapture by the French, after three months, of the greater
part of Fort Douaumont, which was taken by the Germans at the
outset of the Verdun drive, was received with great elation by the
press and the public, the more so on account of the effect it was
expected to have on neutral opinion.
General Nivelle, the French commander at Verdun, took advan
tage of the fact that the Germans had been recently concentrating
all their attention on Dead Man's hill on the other side of the river
and assembled a large amount of artillery for an attack on the
Douaumont sector. After a violent bombardment of the position,
the infantry attacked late Sunday afternoon and after violent
fighting succeeded in taking all but a small part of the fort.
WrMANS ADMIT LOSS, BUT
STILL CLAIM FORT DOUAUMONT
Berlin, via wireless, May 23. Announcement was made to-day by
the war office that in the fighting north of Verdun the French have
taken some first-line positions, but that Fort Douaumont remains
firmly in German hands.
Washington, D. C, May 23 The Car
ranza government has ordered 30,000
troops into the region south of the bor-
der to exterminate the bandits, accord
ing to information reeeived by the state
denartment.' General Ohreeon'a original
orders following the border conference NOTE TO ENGLAND
were for 10,000 to police the territory. HAS BEEN DRAFTED
Objection to Discharge of Bankrupt
A hearing before Referee W. N. Ther
iault was held at Montpelier to-day on
special objections to the discharge from Original Complaint HaS Not
bankruptcy of Charles F. Eddy. , The ob- c
jseen neeaea, cays
Wilson '-
jector was A. A. Slayton of Morrisville
and ho was represented by frank Plum
ley of Nortlifield. Eddy was represented
by F. G. Fleetwood and M. I'. Maurice of
Mornsvule,
IN BAD STRAITS.
BARRE YOUNG MAN
DIED AT THE FRONT
WHILE ON DUTY!
Mexico's Economic Situation Said to Be
Serious.
Washington, D. G, May 23. The eco-
Alexander McDonald Vounie Was One of
Dozen Members of Bonaccord Foot
ball Club to Enlist with British.
. The first of the Bonaccord football
club to fall in the line of duty was Alex
ander McDonald Vounie, until the au
tumn of 1015 a resident of Barre, accord-
ng to information which reached the city
to-day. The young soldier, for several
years a Barre granitecutter, lett the city
lasr August, going to Canada, where he
enlisted at once, lie had been in active
service "somewhere in France" since last
December. Vounie s father, George Voun
ie, was well known in Barre twenty years
ago. I be dead soldier leaves his widowed
mother, two brothers and two slitters to
mourn his passing. At the lust annual
get-together of the Bonaccord club in
Barre a few weeks ago, Private Vounie
was one of 12 club members, whose loy
alty to the mother country in the time
ot her peril was the subject of a stirring
tribute at the after dinner exercises.
An Aberdeen dispatch notes the death
of Private lounie as follows: Inlor-
mation has been received by Mrs. Vounie,
OFFICIAL PRIMARY
VOTE IN VERMONT
Washington, D. C, May 23. President
Wilson sent to the state department to
day 4 complete draft, of the new note to 27 Orchard street, Aberdeen, of the death
Great Britain nrotestinir seainst inter- of her n. IVivate Alexander McDonald
, ... . .. ' . Vounie, of the Canadian expeditionary.
icrenco wim American maim, it was nnv n: - , , -
The official figures of the presi
dential preference vote in the Ver
mont primary of May ltl was an
nounced to-day as follows:
Republican ticket: Charles K,
Hughes 5.4S0, Theodore Roosevelt
l.fl.'ll, Samuel W. McCall 181, Elihu
Root ISO, Henry Ford 34, and John
v. eeks 28.
Democratic ticket: Woodrow
Wilson 3,711, Champ Clark 23.
Progressive ticket. Theodore
Roosevelt, 1,418.
In addition, there were 151 scat
tering votes.
Secretary of State Guy W. Bai
ley and the other four members
of the board designated to canvass
. the vote met to-day at the State
. House. The other members are
Judge Willard W. Miles of Bar
ton, appointed by Chief Justice
Loveland Munson of the supreme
court; Stanley C. Wilson of Chel
sea, James F. Kennedy of Willis
ton and H. Nelson Jackson of Bur
lington, chairmen of the Republi
can; Democratic and Progressive
state committees, respectively.
TRY TO PROVE
ARSON CHARGE
Charles Wyone Accused of
Burning Chas. Smith's
Buildings
ALLEGED THREAT
toldbywitn:
To the Effect Thi vVvone
Would "Get Even"
with Smith
BARRE TO SUPPORT JONES
The trial of Charles Wyone of More
town, charged with arson, probably the
last case to be decided by a jury in
Washington county court this term and
the only state case to be tried, was com-
nomio situation in Mexico is extremely ,aid Mor9 the cabinct but the general Lad not lomr in Canada when the For Delegate to Republican National menced. at 9 o'clock to-day when court
grave, according to official advices yester- . .. , -,, . ... . .,..' ..a A i... r,.K.. mt . i,
day to the state department. With ther""" er" e."'"cu- i,,e nalB lm B'," nu "e voiumwreu iu.
monetary problems already acute, the caoicu vo uonuon jnmraiiM.eiy, gnu ibis
food shortage without prospect of any unuersioou mac uupucaie win go to
immediate relief and with the labor " rrencn government..
strike extending over virtually all the .secretary Lansing and legal experts at
Mexican railway lines, the de facto gov- the state department made the- original Only American Survivor of Ancon Dis-
DR. GREIL ARRESTED.
Convention. met after the week-end recess. The re-
Bafre's delegation to the Republican "Pendent, who was arraigned May 19 and
state convention in Montpelier May 2J3, entered a plea of not guilty, is represent-
which will elect eight delegates to the ed bv Frpd L- Laird and A. C. Theriault,
serious (draft of the note, and the president re
vised its phraseology. is made up
aster Under Charge.
New York, May 23. Dr. Cecils Greil,
years old, only American-born sur
vivor of the Ancona disaster, is under ar
rest, on a charge of performing an il
legal operation. The detectives say she
BRITISH NEAR KUT.
Region Surrounding is Nearly Free of
Turks.
London, May 23. A dispatch received
from Lieut.-Gen. Sir Perry Lake, com
mander of the British forces in Mesopo
tamia, shows that the forces of Lieut.
Gen. Sir George Gorringe, operating on
the south bank of the Tigris, have now
virtually readied Kut-el-Amara, this re
gion now being clear of Turks up to tlic
junction of the Slmttel-Hai river with
the Tigris at Kut. On the north bank
of the Tigris to the ea-stof Kut-el-Amara,
however, the Turks still occupy Sannay
ya. An official communication issued
last night concerning the operations in
this region says:
General Lake reports' on May 20 that
the right, or south, bank of the Tigris
is clear of the enemy as far as the Shatt-el-Hai,
except for small rear guards cov
ering the bridge over the Hai some 500
yard below its junction with the Tigris.
Our main force on this bank has reached
the line of Magasis-Dujailam.
"On the left or north bank, the ene
my is reported still ociipying the San
nyyat poition. The weather is intensely
hot snd trying. The temperature dur
ing the last few days was over 12') de-j
greeg in the shade."
ITALIAN RESISTANCE
TENACIOUS AT FIRST
to
Then the Austria as' Attack Began
Break Down the Defenses Berlin
News Agency Tells of Prog
ress. Berlin, via wireless, May 23. The fob
lowing account of recent operations on
the Austro-ltalian front is given by thtfi
Overseas .News agency:
"On May 14 the Austro-Hungarian ar
tillery became active in manv places
along the southern Tyrol front and early
the next morning were able to advance at
several places in the sector. As the re
sult of excellent artillery work the first
Italian positions were taken with small
loss and fKifl prisoners were taken. In
the Terragnola valley the enemy resisted
tenaciously but by evening their resist
ance was broken. Over 2.5K) prisoners
were taken altogether during the day.
"On May 16 the attack was renewed
along the whole line and the Austrian
took an important position on the Folga
ria plateau. On May 17 the troops ad
vanced everywhere, at some points cross
ing the Italian frontier or advancing
close to the border. The mountains are
still partly covered by snow."
eminent is pictured aa facing
domestic tilifht.
. r- - . i i . .. . e i t - . . . i I
First hand report as to the situation 'argeiy ui iegai r6umTn mj mrai
n northern Mexico will reach the depart- contentions of Great Britain In a memo- '
ment to-day. Consul Letcher from Chi- ramium, concurred in by France, prosent-
huahua City is on the way to Washing- M to n department several weeks
- ' . I- rri T'.l-J t'A-A-- ii.. ...
ton, presumably bringing with hint a lnB tniwaowwi wf ue pi
svnonsis of the renorts of five consuls I tion that
recently ordered to the border to talk &rt com
.ai; ...w u nmn;ia I continues
uiri iniii(jiujlD n IbU lUitlMli J uiai.iaio I " m I 11
i I ment. must now insist more emoiiaxical-1 ""
'"f. : " -- -- - --- T -- i . .- . .
The department yesterday reeeived fur- ly that they cease. . t 3 " Zr.Z VI I ' . u'
W vi (mm Kn.mi Rnmr. State department offlciais consider that "V
m.. 4.,.iL- -c .1." Ufc .-hi.'f wknHi of thA nnAitinn of relates that she is the victim of an il
i. iucAiuu VH.V i.i?iiiiik nc iitrw uuiD - r Ii .. i , . T. f :,
fb.a w. in LMi nn.rfinn hv Great Britain is her policy of taking neu- Hal operation performed by Dr. Gre.l.
tbe de facto government? but the mes'- tral mail veaels into British jurisdictipn 'e 1 woman is critically ,11,
saee threw no lurht on its mirport. nd submitting tnem to local censor
While reports as to the domestic sit- hiP regulations
national convention of the party in Chi
cago next month, met in the school com
missioners' room at the city hall last
evening to map out a plan of action at
the state convention, chiefly with rela
tion to support of more nearly local can
didates for national convention delegates.
and State's Attorney Fred E. Gleason is
conducting the prosecution.
The information filed by the state
charges that the fire which destroyed the
farm buildings of Charles Smith in the
Jones brook district was started by Wy-
at practices complained of in its one of the speakers at the recent Htlgh j jf. Jones of Montpelier, a mem- Oct.. 20. 1015 The state bv its
mplaint on the subject have been birth control meeting in Camcg.e hall ber of Joneg Brog of j, for na. , ' '
ed and that the American govern- welcomed the release of Lmnm tional delegate on the understanding that forenoon, sought to ei
It was decided unanimously to support one, the fire occurring the morning of
second
establish
he will support Charles E. Huches for a mollve Ior e alleged act by showing
president in accordance with the majority I that ill feeling existed before the fire be
sentiment of Vermont Republicans aa ex- tween Smith and the respondent
l,1uo, w,.pI.,u.rjr, Charles Smith, ir.. v. th. fif.
h ivA nf rhA snvnn ri K a rt h T7 -- I J
deletration were nresenf. at thn meefin.7 nesB callea Dy ine State, lie testllied to
Dr. Greil at the age of 10 was a cash iart evenincr. two heinir imavnidahlv residins in Berlin, told of his knowledr?
It i tin dorstood that ff'ri in Grand street department store, tained but their
.."... . I 11-1. .l- to .1.- I . . . . . . . vl .. t,,.i, ut
nation of the Carranza government are on tins point tnattne renewed pro- " - - -. -- tion Deing ascertained. Jt was the senti- the farra where tle s jth buiMinM
irloomv the attitude of Mexico officials test is cJnetly based. 1 ne Wririan mem- ment ot tne delegation, on the reading of , . . , r .
gloomy, tne aiituiae oi .nexico vmcuus j h f Jiilrlr-n's Wniful in FWrnnnH i.. t . -.aIL. v . were located before the fire, where Wv.
toward the United State has liecn de- oranaum avoiueu mm ic pi me Hu " --r . ;V . Vtl ou"v "aieuieni or nis expeciaiion , " . '
scribed as more friendly since the bor- tion. Rapid tranSmisin was promised the Marino hospital in aple. hen to vote for Hughes if elected a delegate, one resided at that time and said the
der conference between Generals Scott to true correspondence, but the right t" tnat Uarre Republicans will support Mr. u" oeiween me rmun rarm ana
It is believed possible this to seiie contraband sen in-tne mails mcu .ni jones. so action was taken as to sup- B ""rra piace, wnere wyone lived, was
will be reflected in the new note at- wn maintained. f'u nwusi . port or other men ror national conven- H"rier oi a nine, j ne nre oc-
thou-'h some officials think it probable The Hague convention of 1907, the time sue was meaieai airawr oi iae. tlon delegates but it is probable that the Krrea aoout l o ciock in the morning and
thata new remiest for withdrawal of the United SUtes contends, guarantees the Manhattan Trade school for Girls, but Barre delegation will take some action when he reached the scene of the blaze
a s.: . );;., v,..,M iii k inviolability of nostal corresnondence and resigned. I on the eve of the state convention. The wyone was there,
included with whatever other proposals the new note again point to the meon- At me ouioreait or tne war ur. urc.i caucus left the whole matter to the dis- Jne second wuness, ira uray ot nam-
General Carranza has to make I venienoe and actual money loss resulting F" w a. tuwi v. piion m ine neiegation. - -'". lorrawijr rmpioyeu on tno
Reports from General Funston that from the continuance of the tiritisn pol- one w ouru mo jmw- jnamucn as it may not be possible for """uoury iarm ana was acquainted witn
n msmUn f thn T.va. Anf niu icy or taKins neutral man veaseis inio Aiexanqcr uoraon, rne nrst man elected l"c ''":iiv. jjj mm vi an uii-sio
....... . w. - - - - - " i -. . . . . . . . i . ij i l x, ; 1 1 ........ t n i i il. n 1 . . -
j vj ...i j 4i. Hr t.ish noTi. and there examinlnir and " pcuwu uv ii unmau iuiui dv me caucus, to attend the state con- ueiure me nre, wnen Bonnie
uuaiu unu i ei ti i w inrt: nin muoici- r ' - I - . . , - . . I - . . I . . , . - . . , , ...
imr oatli and enter the federal service detaining the mails. A mass of evidence xvoveraoer , ivio, on iuni. vention, ti. ii. Woodruff, the second man nayes, v jone anu omiin stopped at nis
under the president's call, brou;
bers of Congress from that stats
al service detaining the mails. A mass of evidence iNoveraoer , ivio, on ine coasi oi auhib. vention, ii. G. Woodruff, the second man Jyes, wyone and ftmitn stopped at his
cht mem- has been collected showing the effect on She was the only American survivor, and elected, was chosen aa chairman of the farm trouble occurred between Smith
ite to the American business of the British policy, when she reached this city on December delegation. nd Wyone. He didn't give any atten-
fl . t , - 26, 1015, aboard the French liner Rocham- ; ; tion to the conversation but gathered
war department yesterday to find out
what action was in eontcmplavioailiey
wer tnM the mutter had not vet reached
Secretary Baker for consideration. Mr. His Friends Think Committee May Re
Baker's military advisers are preparing port Favorably.
recommendations for him. They appear
a. ii a At . ..t.; . a.
court martial under the existing militia
MORE HOPEFVL Fftl BR AN DEIS.
beau, she told a .graphic story of the
sinking tf the Annona.
GARMENT WORKERS
IN BOSTON STRIKE
$15,919 BID ACCEPTED.
rrl T I, """"' than they have been for many weeks , ,
law, and ,t is known that some officers L, hjg ,fomination to the u court Between 4,000 and 3,000 Employes in 200
a warning to national guardsmen in gen
eral that they are undertaking a serious
responsibility in joining the organiza
tion.
FAILED OF PURPOSE.
would be favorably reported to the Sen
ate by the judiciary committee next
Wednesday when the committee haa
ajrreed to vote.
home Democratic senators predicted
that the vote In the committee would
be nine to eicht for a report recommend-
Flying Column, of Eighth .d TSi'
teenm nvairy jceiurn. Tennessee. It was reported that the
Marathon. Texas. May 23. The fl vim? Tennessee senator, who has been regard-
columns of the Eighth and Fourteenth ed as opposed to favorable action, would
- - . . t i . ... ii-. i i v- : .. u
eava rv. rietai ed hv Ma.Hr-(reneral f red- not return Dy weuni-nrmv. ii c j u-
Shops Out for Uniform Week of 48
Hours and Advance in
Wages. .
Boston, May 23. Between 4.000 and
5,000 garment workers quit work in 200
slwps here to-uay in an effort to obtain
an eight-hour day and an advance in
wages. The union, which is a branch of
the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of
America, asks for a uniform week of 48
hours and a restoration of the wage scale
" " I . t mii 3. i : -i-: i ai a t ,l.
erick Funston to give chase to the bandit sent a h"
m Herm of Ci enn Snr iur and Boom as. report favorably. If he returns, the . ' . . 6 ' '
, ,l ... :n v. nours i ee.
have returned to American sou near ro- cnnncra are mn mc iiiimiihu
quillas. reported without recommendation, .eigne
The expedition was in Mexico just ten nepuDiican senaxors mc wiu
days. It failed to capture or wipe out win voie sonaiy againsi. iur. unmuriB.
the main body of the Big Bend maraud
RUN OVER BY TWO TRAINS.
ers, but it made prisoners of four of WAITE WAS NERVOUS
the bandits and lett Detnind two outers
desperately wounded. In addition, it res
cued Jesse Deemer, a Boquillas store-
j i . ti . 1. ; .1 l
eeinr, ana jionroc isvnr, m, uruiu h-ha- i ... . ... .... . v
, ,i. av .,!, ixini xiica ivi inc wuiuci vi a
napwa oy mo iuexnaiin wict iwr. i
their last desperate flinir before fleeing ther-in-Law, John fecK, e Became
south beyond the international bound- Pale at Sight of Organs of
arv.
The return of the expedition was Im
perative for strategical reasons. It had
penetrated so far into the interior, with-u
out the semblance of a line of communi
cation, that it was not prepared for pos-
ible eventualities. With no hope of re
inforcements, which had been declared
navailable, it was impossible for it to
continue its foray. Then, too, the main
hject of its campaign had been aecom
lished in the release of Deemer and
'avne.
NO WOMAN VOTE
IN PORTO RICO
"GREAT HOUR IS STRUCK."
For Italy is Comment by Italian Pubhc
and Press.
Rome, via Taris. May 23. "Italy's
By
FOUR SHIPS SUNK.
One of Them Sent to the Bottom
Austrian Submarine.
Tari.. May 23. The Norwegian steam
er Tjonie wis nink near the Island of
Majorca by an Austrian submarine, r-
The crew
greit hour has struk" is the theme of -cording to a Havas dispatch.
k. .,w; aj tK- i oi u were saveo.
on the news that is being received from
the front.
All the reports coming from the fight
ing rone agree that the number of Aus
trian troops now in action has bon
more than doubled and that the Austri
an arti'lery. esjw ially heay. Ion? mfijre
funs, is daily m.reainjr and unmaskine
the imposing nffensie prrpaiwi by Aus
tria with the object of rea.-iiinj tie Alps
above Oxenra, from which t !.e ,u4ri
an would he aUe to dominate the en
t re eetian r-siin and ttirratfn t! e
f nk and rear of the main ItaVan irmr
onmpvinx the prorin-es cf I'dine anf
rruuo.
Ixndnn. May 23. Lloyds to-dav re
ported three ships, a ;reek and a British
steamer and an Italian sailing vessel,
hav irjr br-n sunk.
ALLEGED WIRE TAPPERS.
Indictments Wert Returned Acaintt Two
New York Men.
. New York. May 2-1 The first indict
merits re.ultinjr from tapping- telephone
nire sit returned by the Kind's rounty
grand jury today. John A. Niivbury.
city i-otn miss K.ner of rhanto. and W il
i mm H. Hit. tikis., specisl rmse! ffr the
Vnt- ilcr irtmert . re the sin
t mr X.
House Struck Out Provision By Vote of
80 to 59 and Then Passed the Bill
Virtually as Introduced.
Washington, D. C, May 23. The
House struck from the Porto Rican bill
to-day. by a vote of 80 to 50, an amend
ment designej to grant woman suffrage
to the inland. The bill was then passed
without rollcall. virtually as it was in
troduced.
The vote showed complete disregard of
party lines though more Democrats than
Republicans voted against the amend
ment. The measure now goes to the
Senate.
Mangled Body Found North of Proctor
Village.
Rutland, May 23. The badly mangled
AT GREWSOME SIGHT bod'.of man probably a tramp was
iuuiiu ou me Autinnii rmirutiu iracK
about about a quarter of a mile north
of Proctor village at 9:30 o'clock last
night and it is believed that he fell from
a freight train, r hich went north ahead
of the 8:40 o clock passenger train out
of this city, and was run over by both
the freight and the passenger trains.
The body was discovered bv men re
turning home by way of the railroad
that some argument ensued. Afterward
he had seen Wyone in Montpelier and
Wyone had called across the street to
him and said, "I'll get even with Charle
Smith." Those were the onlv words
spoken at that time, which was prior to
the time when the fire took place.
The jury hearing the case follows: M.
Jf. Goqdell, A. E. White, A. M. Robinson,
John Nelson Construction Co., to Build
School for Feeble-Minded,
Burlington, May 23. The home for the
feeble-minded, to be built at Brandon by
the state of Vermont, will be erected by
the John Nelson Construction company John P. Mack, Carroll Wheeler, Charles
of Montpelier, whose bid was the lowest "?'ton. 5LT S; Wert, John Osborn.
ti.. i a f i.fc Fred parting, L. L. Knapp, W . R. Cooler
. .. . IUC. - .w. and Vern avton. The other jurors were
Governor Gates and Dr. Frederick Rus- excused by Judge Butler, subject to call.
sell, superintendent of the home, at the but it is not likely that they will be
office of the architect, A. L. Lawrence. asked lo rcport at the courthouse again
vesteriluv afternoon fnr tlie nurnntio nf 1 this term
nnenincr Vhe hiH anrl au-srinw lio n. Other witnesses on the stand this
ra,t Tn Keln t,UJ morning were .Mr. and Mrs. Charles
. . 1 - i e : . i. ak:. 1 1 i i
awarded the contract for general con
I Smith, their son, Osborn, and his wife.
struction only. The bids for heatinir, " 85 "e case nas gone ine evmenve
iring the building, which "". a
the Deceased.
New York, May 23. The state eon
tinned to offer medical testimony to-day
ss foundation for the case against Dr.
Arthur W. Waite. who is charged witn track from a moving picture show at
murdering John recK, nis lamer-in-iaw, proor. They immediately reported the
by poison. Dr. Waite sat with bowed matter to Deputy Sheriff W. H. Startup
head while Dr. Victor Vaughn, dean of f proctor id he, with Health Officer
the medical department ot tne l niversiiy nr j Hack, went to the scene of the
of Michigan, testified to finding two and accident. The right arm was severed
one-half grains of arsenic in Peck's stom
ach. Waite's pallor betrayed his nervous
tension when glass jars containing organs
of Peck's bodv were placed on a table.
VALUABLE DISCOVERIES
DEAD MAN AT WHEEL.
Auto Kin Wild and Struck Fence at
Portland, Me.
Tortland. Mn May 23. J. W. Hick
ey. apM .. a real estate agent, died late
vesterdar afternoon hile on a buine
trip to W'eistbmok in bis automobile.
The machine was observed to be appar
ently running vriid and ment against a
fence, but without doing much damage.
When Mr. Hickey s rraclted he aa
dead.
He had an oce ia tbis city. He cme
here some month co from Stark. N.
H. He i surrnej by ife, a eo and
t" daubtera.
Said to Rave Been Made By Crocker
Land Expedition.
London. May 23. The first member of
the American Arctic Crocker Land expedi
tion. Prof. Maurh C. Tanquary of tht-
cairo. arrived here vesteraay on xne
steamship Hane Eg.ie from (Jreenland.
He reported good scientihc naults had
been obtained by the espedition.
The remaining members of the explor
ing parly, which is headed by Donald B.
MacMillan, have been forced to stay at
North Star bay as the relief ship Cluett
as unable to get through the ice. The
arrival of Prof. Tanquary at Copenhagen
il reported in dispatch from the Danish
capital to the Central News acency.
lYof. Tanquary snd two others of the
expedition sledded all the way south
overland with the object of reaching the
first Danish steamer sailing but only
Tanquarv succeeded in getting- on the
vessel. The expedition will reach borne,
it is expected, during the summer.
from the body which was cut in two near
the shoulders.
There was nothing about the man's
person which would reveal his identity
with the exception of the name Gold
berg" and the address "Granville, X. Y.,'
which was punched in the leather hat
band. His pockets contained a number
of articles usually carried bv men wImj
are living on the country such as soap.
comb, small mirmr and other things.
The boIv was removed to the under
taking rooms at Proctor and State's At
torney C. V. Poulin of this city was noti
fied. The latter believes that there is
no doubt ttiat the death was accidental.
"CLEAN-UP DAY" MAY 26.
AS CHARACTER WITNESS.
Everybody in Barre is Expected to Scrub
Their Premises.
Friday. May 2rl, will be "clean-up day"
in Barre, and it is expected that the work
will he carried out with great vigor un
der the direction of the Woman's club,
the Board of Trade and the city council.
Previous effort along this line have dem
onstrated what Barre can do, and the
present campai(p is modeled after the
previous plan. Householders are expect
ed to hae their premises c luncd up and
the refuse rnled on the curb earlv Friday
morning when the teams or automobile j
plumbing and w
were also opened veterdav, were left
over to the next meeting of the trustees.
and the contract for this work will be
awarded at the meeting of the t rut-tees,
to be held with the architect on June 1.
Al of the members of the board or trus
tees were present yesterday. They are
Dr. P. E. McSweeney ot this citv, Dr.
W. J. Aldrich of St. Johnsbury, Col. J.
E. Piddoek of Saxtons' River and Dr.
S. Coburn of Milton, with Governor
G.ites chairman ex officio.
The bid of the John Nelson Construe
tion company, the successful bidders, was
the lowest, the amount named being $lo,
91!). There were three other bids en
tered, the next lowest bidders being the
Keislieh Construction company of this
city, whose bid was a little over $18,000.
George Saltus of this city entered a bid
of $10,700 and the company entering the
highest bid was the Cu minings Construc
tion company of Ware, Mass., whose bid
was a little "more than $23,000. John I
Bergeron St Son and the Vermont Con
struction company were also expected to
enter bids, which Were not received up
to the time of opening yesterday after
noon.
RESENTED INTERFERENCE.
East Dorset Man Put Bullet Through a
Deputy Sheriff's Coat Tails.
Bennington. May 23. Resenting the
presence of Deputy Sheriff James D. Pur-
ly and his hired man. Walter Field, who
had fctarted to cultivate the Culver farm
in East Dorset. Merritt Culver, a mute.
usei a pnnirncici rine. killing one norse
and sending a bullet through the deputy
sheriff's coat tails yesterday. Culver, to
gether with his parent, who are also
mute, is under charge of court guard
ians, and omciais say inai .Mcrrm neui
the idea that if he e'ii!d prevent his farm
from being worked he could obtain sup
port from the court.
The guardians wanted to put tne tarm
under cultivation and. windlul of the
hreats of the Culvers, sent Deputy Sher
iff l"urdv and his hired man to do the
work. The latter drove onto the farm
with a load of manure, an.) - he was
pasing the hou-e a bullet, tirel from the
house, passed between Ce hor?e and the.
waffon. lieputy nerin I urny approa. imd
the h""iise and jr't bullet through l is
had a -dispute over the ownership of sev
eral bushels of apples in an orchard. The
i-tite will probably conclude its evidence
this afternoon. The effort of the defense
thus far has been to prove that tho
fire might have been caused by sponta
neous combustion inasmuch as some hay
was taken into the barn only a short
time before the fire was discovered.
ITALIAN WAR VETERAN.
Ambrogio Bardelli Passed Away in Barre
To-day.
Ambrogio Bardelli, a veteran of the
Italian campaign ujrain-t King Mcnclik
II. of Abyssinia in 1 S!tt. passed away at
his home. 22 I-add street, this forenoon
around 10 o'clock Mr. Bardelli had been
in failing health since the spring of lf14,
when he was compelled to abmidon lii-
trade. Lattcrlv he failed rapidlv and for
sevoral weeks he had been confined to his
bed. Mr. Bardelli is survived by his
wife; three daughters, Neda Bardelli,
Cleo Bardelli and Messina Bardelli; and
one son, Guido Bardelli. He also leaves
four sisters and two brothers, as follows:
Mrs. Ambroini of Hardwick, Mrs. O.
liranai of Barre, Mrs. d. Miani of barro
and Mrs. Comolli of Milford. N. H..
lames Bardelli of Hardwick and Edward
Bardelli of this citv.
The deceased was born in Bernato.
Italy, 41 years ago, and as a young man
he learned the granite cutter's tr-ide in
his native land. Seventeen years ago hn
came to Barre and two years afterward,
in October. 1001, his marriage took place
in this city. For a number of yenri prior
to his last illness he was employed by
Canton Bros. He belonged to the granito
cutters' union and was a member of tho
Italian society. Mutun Soceorso. Pre
vious to coming to America the deceased
enlisted as a private in the Italian army
and when the African campaign of ths
late 0O-s was started by Italy. Mr. T-ai -delli
was in one of the first contingent!
to embark for the coast of Africa. He
served creditably in the Abyssinian cam
paign and was honorably diwharged upon
liis return to Italy.
The funeral will be hejd Friday after
noon at 2 o'ilik. snd interment will bv
in Hope tr-netery.
WOMAN ADMITS GUILT.
inuli mill ome imnnit and A thm c-1
Theodore Rsesevelt Went en Staid for , ilt, Te ctv eoumil will cend c-uticwit. Then another bullet went through ' Chirred with Poisoninz Her Five-Ytsr
Glover Toiij. (the teams, it u stated to-day ; and if (the head of a -'.V horse driven by Field, j 0I(, y,- taciile Thomas.
Washington. D. C, May S3. I ormer i th new street n.-parimenv iru. k snoui-.ii-w annn.i wmS m-i.nw.
rv J.t R...!t anneared on the wit- arrive in t me it will be utilue. .Meanwnne tx-piuy .-wrm v naries "r-
rr..,ni,.1r t..l It ia also stilted ir-at if hmiehol.i-rlcro. w no nai necn :imn..n-,i. imin i
'tied as character witnes. f,Vr Prewidewt Ido not take thi orp-Vtunity to .l.-n tip at the farm and ucee.ie4 in p. r-ua -img slaughter and was release -I on b.d ti I
.lover of the K at.or,.J bank. .n of ! their prem.ee. their rase w,l i r..Ve,I -Culver U surrender. H- was pW-d in S.-,.temU'. wh, n she w M re-e.ve v
tKr men who are being Uie4 for fer- mU M the t.arj of heahh, w.th r-- Purdv's a.it.m-.b,V anl taken to the ten-eon t he -hartfe ..f ..i.n n? her tite-
jj - cuti -n in view for failure. vmnlj ja4 ia this f'-aee, vear-oli ward. Lucuie I torn.
J Springfield. Ma.. May 23. Ei-abet
( annnn to-!y pi- a ic j guilty to man-
i
