DAILY EDITION
n', V
'
1JI
vol. vi., x. aio.
GIUXT8 PAHS, JOSEPIIIXE COUNTY, OHMJOX, Tll8lAY, MAY 2.1, 1816.
WHOLE XCMBER 17S4.
No Other Town 1,4'th.c World tho Size of (J rants Pass Has u Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph 8erviee.
PIAIIIS
11177
AN OUNCE
But George E. Anderson, Who
OnlyFour Years Ago Threw
the White Metal Away,
- j "Tbo Italian fled from Uorg,
CanrnaV HnLi. Wl,!'er much booty was found," suld
beorge t Anderson, Who tb lMaMt. -our or., corp.
HnMc fnr a Hioripr PrirA
J1UUM"! a IllgUCI 1 1 llC
-
4,n offer of f 77 per unco tor the
platinum output of his mine on the
llllnola river baa been declined by
tleo. E. Anderson, who will bold the
precious metal, worth nearly Ove
-
time K weight In gold, for a rise In
tho market. Four years ago Mr. An-
Person was carefully picking out tbo
white wetal that was too heavy to
wash out of the yellow dust and
throwing It Into the discard so that
It might not spoil the appearance of)
the gold. But today It la a different
iory. ana me iu ounces wmn wr.
Anderson Drought 10 town yesterday
lonld bo exchanged for 1770 In gold.
When the characler of the white
metnl hud been determtued, Mr. An
tlerson commenced saving It for the
market, his first sale having been of
10 ounces that brought him $29 an
ounce threo years ago. The Ander
son mine give a recovery of about;
that much platinum along with Its
old In every winter's run. and the'
value Is fast mounting higher.' .:, i
lint with platinum worth so much
In the open market. It Is still the yel
low metal that gives the Anderson
placer in In Us greatest worth. Along
with the 10 ounces of platinum -Mr.
Anderson also brought to town yes
terday 152 ounces of gold, all gath
ered In the riffles of the alulce boxes
during the past 20 days. A clean-up
on this mine Is made evcry SOth day,
and each harvests nets around a hnn-,l:nll0( ,.rfglt today that Woodrow
drod ounces. Mr, Anderson had been wilsun, or William Howard Taft.
in recently with gold that sold rorW0w be satisfactory to the Geaman
$1,300, the proceeds of the clean-up MoclaliHts aa a peacemaker. Ho add
of the 2th, and the 122 ounces rep- L,, ,httt ni1,0nlmont o a food dlcla.
resents the rim of the mine since that! U)r would destroy all hopes of an
date and up to the middle of the pre- vktory trough a food block-
acnt month. , ado am, romi,p tJreal Dritain. to
The Anderson mine Is equipped 'maite m.aoe
with four giants and a Ruble elevator. "SodallHts desire peace," he do
Only two of the giants are In opera- (,lnred .r am conndPnt that tbo m.
tlon usually, however. Tho past sea- I)PT,tt, .liancelIor wantll ipace, There
on has heen one of the best of tho 8cnougb(ood for all Germany. What
10 years that Mr. Anderson has been , nwdod al))0iut0 contro, of the
with the proiserty either as operator Germon BtalM wMch murt ,0P(, ner.
or owner, there having been an abun- ,,n and whch formorly de,)inde(1 ,,.
dance of ivater, and the output will 0 ouU(,e 8(nt0s The food dpUtor
f,q,,Ul thnt of ",y mn '" P"1- .will be an Imperial officer. The states
w, v ...... ihav0 fouKtit side' by side and now
If I1.KV NOT W L1C Ml JMch must put It. foodstuffs side by
Missorni pku:oatiox ,Ide Thore wlll then be plenty t0
O f ...I. It... AO lT..V..Ht a
at. uu..., mart"' nrrwii o.
...ur. n,v..,..r Ul
delegation to the republican national
. convention, and using that offico to
help his vice-presidential boom, today
when Otto Btlfel bent him out by a
tote of 20 to 7.
TRAINMEN HURT IN
HlUsboro, Ore., May 23. Tliroe
to on were seriously Injured this
morning when a Southern Pacific
local freight train crashed Into the
.Tear of a gravel train on a long
trestle west of HlUsboro. Two tars
and the' tender were thrown to the
ground, 20 feet below. Engineer
Hoberg wns caught In the cob and
,1ndly crushed. Fireman Blcksoose
and Brnkeman Klmmell Jumped to
the ground. AIN three were rushed
to a Portland hospital on a Bpsclal
train. The wreck blocked the track
and passengers on the Southern Ta
dflo electric trains were taken to
Torost Grove and HlUsboro by auto
anobllo. ' ' ' 1,1
HILLSBORO
WRECK
ITALIAH TBODPS
EVACUATE BORG
TO AUSTINS
Vienna, May 23. Italian troops
hav evacuated their positions at
riorg before tho Austrian advance, It
wa officially announced today.
'croaiied tbo Italian border, pursuing
jtho defeated enemy to the ' Mod to
iVetna fortifications, which are now
f In our hand, we captured a total of
188 cannon"- An Austrian aeroplane
bombarded railroad between 8an-
'dona Dlplave and Porto, Gruardo."
IMH (if If A UX AS
'm-jotkctiox ix Fiasco
San Francisco, May 23. When
i'uu upoo to explain me cnarge 01
carrytns concealed weapons. Charles
w,.i .... im -u'.ii.. t...i..
called upon to explain the charge of
llrady today that whea lB Loi An.
Relo, ppople had warnfld blm to carry
g()n dlirln, h. vUU , San PrlD.
cko.
..T'wa M to beUev( tnat thlngi
wera wUd tnd woolly u here your
honor," Fugonl told the Judge, "so I
bought a gun."
Judge Brady took; the case under
advisement.
METHODISTS IX FAVOU
OF WO.MAX 81FFIUGE
Saratoga, N. Y., May 23. Amid
great applause the Methodist gen
eral conference today passed reso
lutions favoring women suffrage. ,
TAFT OR WILSON
FOR PEACE MAKER
Berlin.' May 23. 4'hlllp Schlede-
man. social hit leader, informed the
last until the crops are harvested. A
BnorUge of fow W6eks
will not
mai(0 Bue for peace."
TO PARADE
FOR PREPAREDNESS
Portland, May 23. Preparations
were in full swing today for a pre
paredness parade June 3, when Port
land will follow the lead of New York
city. Tho parade will be at night
to lnaure a larger number of civilians
In the marching line. The date was
fixed and arrangements started at a
meeting last night. Judge Ganten
beln was named chairman of the com
mittee in charge. Mayor Albee start
ed the .movement upon rcrclpt of a
telegram from Mayor Thompson ol
Chicago urging Portland to Join othor
rltlos In raising their voice for pre
paredness on June 3.,
The state mlllHa. several squads of
police, the Spanish war veterans, civil
war veterans and other similar or
ganisations wlll augment the crowds
of plain clothes civilians In the march.
It Is planned to have at least 28.000
people In the parade. s
PORTLAND
DOUAUMONT
BY FRENCH FR0IV1 TEUTONS
Allies Stage a Great Coanter
France, and Paris Is Today Celebrating What Is Con.
sidered One of the Host Notable Victories of the
Verdun Campaign and
Paris, May 23. After all-night'
fighting of great fury, French troops
expelled Germans from alt except the
northeastern corner of Fort Douau-
mont, It waa officially claimed today.
This Is one of the greatest victories
of the Verdun campaign.
All Paris Is celebrating the trl -
umph. It was declared by the war
office that French soldiers re-entered
Fort Douaumont after storming Ger-
mnn positions along a mile and a
(quarter front.
Further gains were also renorted
on the west bank of the Meiise. The
French are now convinced that the
Dead Man's hill stronghojd is Im-
pregnable.
News of the French gains was
partly offget by word of British re-
verses near Vlrny heights. The Ba-
vtrlans there thrust back the British wor8-
lines to remove the threat against' Ea1 of H,n 304 G"nan buglet
their holdings which has existed since 00ndd charge In force and a
the British took the offensive. j wedge-ehaped column of men ran to
Bloody hand-to-hand flKhtlne has ward the French, Intending to" dl-
contlnued along every foot of the Ver- the,r '"'n outflank one de
dun front since 8aturday. The alaugh- tachment holding an Important posi-
ter along the bills northwest of Ver- J1011, wor1 or lBe ttempt was Im
dun Is growing deadlier every hour, mediately telephoned to the massed
Trenches have been pounded to dust.
Infantry are locked In tayonet strug-
gles to the death. The most Intense nr oropped mto the rront ranks of
battling Is occurring at Hill 804, th8 Teutons, obliterating It and send
Dead Man's hill and connecting posl- 'ng the remainder of the column back
tlons west of the Meuse. In confusion.
Heavy German charges on both ' :
sides of the Meuse river were re-( Paris, May 23. In the greatest
pulsed, except north of Tblaumcnl counter-offensive aince the Verdun
farm, on the east bank, where Teu- campaign began French legions are
tens gained entrance to a trench re- carrying their banners today Into a
cently seized by French troops. smashing drive against German lines
When today's official communique both east and west of the river Meuse.
was Issued, tho conflict was growing! The German official statement,
more terrific every minute following, while admitting that the French are
one of the bloodiest nights' In the his-, on the aggressive, specifically denies
tory of Europe. j the claim that practically all the
Amid the ruins of Douaumont Ger-: wreckage of shell-shattered Fort
man detachments were still offering Douaumont is In French hands. Ber-
herolc resistance. With bayonets, lln says the engagement is progress
hand grenades, trench mines and I lng, with the ruins held by Germans,
ROOSEVELT
PE
DPEN.BID FOR G. 0. P. NOMINATION
New York, May 23. Politicians to
day regarded Colonel Theodore
Roosevelt's speech to the delegation
of regular republicans offering htm
its support an open bid for the
O. O. P. nomlnatlou. They saw an
attempt to smoke out Justice Hughes
In the colonel's declaration that no
man would be named by the conven
tion unless he flatly announced his
position on Americanism and pre
paredness. Roosevelt's speech was carefully
prepared and his attitude apparently
deliberately assumed. With regard
to Americanism and pi-eparodness, he
said:
'Any mnn at this time of crisis who
is not aggressively, openly and spe
cifically for these principles Is against
them, and every patriotic man should
treat our public servants on this
basis."
The delegation was headed by
George von L. Moyer, former secre
tary of the navy, who Informed the
colonel that the Roosevelt republican
committee, an organisation with
memberships In 30 states, has been
formed for the purpose of working
for T. R. In the convention.
In his reply, Roosevelt named over
the principles which he favored, and
said:
"They are the principles you are
IS RETAKEI
- Offensive in the North of
Along the River Mensc
clubbed muskets. Teuton soldiers
fought Individually there, refusing to
treat and dying where they fought
la the meantime the French enirl-
Beers were busy atrongthenlng their
hard-won gain, expecting violent
counter-attacks.
i One of the most spectacular epl-
odes occurred on the west bank of
the Meuso, where, shielded by a dense
clou'j of poison gas, behind a screen
of liquid Are, the Germans advanced
by a brilliant charge and entered a
Frnch trench. Hundreds of French-
men' nng gaa masks and cloth-
,n t0 Prte against the
flme8 lurt'd In their bomb-proofa
unui tne Germans swarmed In. Then
tbey d"1 t In the midst of the
oermai cneera, wiled many enemies
n1 ted all sunriTors from the
btterle of "aeventy-flvea" In the
rear and a wo11 fll'octed curtain of
IO nniminrnm
l I I IPJ Hi-II
IJ UUIIdlLOLU
organizing to support, and with all
my heart I welcome such support."
The Roosevolt Republican league
announced today that It completed an
organization in each ot 20 states.
Ile5r.ri P,ed.KlDl 8"PPOrV V he
colonel are coming by the wholesale,
it was said.
Hotel lobbies are crowded with
politicians. Among the visitors today
are former Senator Crane and former
Governor Foss ot Massachusetts;
Roger Sullivan, of Chicago, and Nor
man E. Mack, chairman of the demo
cratic national committer.
Fobs said he did n6t believe Justice
Hughes would accept the republican
nomination. Crane was as silent as
ever. Mack and Sullivan would not
discuss the situation.
1HGII SCHOOL STVDKXTS .
TIHXK ORPET 1XXOCKXT !
Waukegan, 111., May 23. A poll
of the senior class of the high school
which Marian Lambert attended to
day Bhowed a belief In the Innocence
of William H. Orpet, accused of mur
derlng her. The vote for not guilty
wis 170 boys and 111 girls. Four
boys nd eight girls voted guilty.
Those who were undecided number
ed eight, one boy and seven girls.
None favored the death penalty.
Fli FRISCO TO
HEW YORK BYAUTO
III RECORD HE
New York, May 23.Smaahing the
transcontinental automobile record,
Bobby Hammond, driving an Empire
car, arrived at Broadway and 42nd
street today, having traveled the
2,384 miles from San Francisco in
6 days, 10 hours and 6V minutes. He
lowered the mark established last
week when a Cadillac eight covered
the distance from Los Angeles In
7 days, 11 hours and 52 minutes.
Hammond followed the Lincoln
highway. He had a companion from
San Francisco to Cheyenne, and drove
from that point to Fort Wayne alone.
His car was an Empire chassis, fitted
with a racing body. Hammond car
ried a letter from Mayor Rolph to
Mayor Mltchel, which was delivered
this afternoon!
PROTEST TO EXGLAXD
BEADY FOB DELIVERY
' Washington, , May 23. President
Wilson today completed hla protest
against seizure of United States malls
by the British. It was sent to Secre
tary Lansing' at noon, with the ex
pectation that It would be cabled, to
London immediately. (
The communication is largely legal
in character. It closes with Instruc
tions to Ambassador Page to renew
vigorously complaints already made
by the United States. The discussion
relates to the . practice of British
cruisers holding up American mails
carried in neutral vessels and taking
them to English ports', where the let-
ers are subjected to censorship. '
Hill
Geneva, Switzerland, May 23.
Despite desperate resistance, the Aus
trian armies today are steadily press
ing forward against Vlcenza, the
Italian Verdun," on the first anni
versary of Rome's war declaration
Austrian artillery is bombarding
the snow-capped peak of Monte Pas-
ubio, 21 miles northwest of Vlcenza.
xnia summit oars the nortnern en
trance into the" valley.
The whole Tyrol front is the scene
of most desperate lighting. South
noveno io uauans are masing a
herIc 8tand near SereaTalle whlle
ISr,!?!!401"6
Southeast of Roverto Austrlans
crossed Into Italian territory at three
places. Rome reports bloody light
ing In this region, of a see-saw char
acter, .first one side and then the
other reaching the border.
It Is believed in Rome that the
Austrlans drive southward was In
tended to divert the Italians from an
offensive on the Isonzo line, and that
till 1. In... V. V..
enough to force an abandonment of
their offensive.
L BILL
Washington, May 23. Efforts ot
democrats to pass live naval prepared
ness bll before the Chicago conven
tion precipitated a bitter house de
bate todav. Congressman Mann de-
dared that trlckerv waa helito- resort-
- ed to in order that the measure
might be.rushed yirpugh without de-
bate, or kept In the nlr so republl
cans would be prevented from attend
ing the national convention. . :
"It Is a matter of policy for us to
pass the bill before the republican
convention," Congressman Kitchen
replied. "If we don't, you folks wlll
charge Us with having tailed to keep
our pledges." , ' .
The debate nded without aa agree-
TEUTOHS
HEAD
DEMOCRATS
WOULD
RUSH
NAVA
BOND ISSUE
VOTED BY
ROSEBURG
llmpqua Valley City Follows
Lead of Grants Pass ad
Legalizes $300,000 Bends
for Building a Railroad
Roseburg, May 23. A muncipallr-
built railroad from Roseburg into the
Umber belt of the Cascades waa be
lieved assured today as the result ot
the adoption of an amendment to the
city charter yesterday. The amend
ment was adopted In a special eleo ,
tlon by a vote of 557 to 94. :
8. A. Kendall, a Pittsburg finan
cier, plans to build sawmills in Rose
burg and open logging camps in the
mountains when the road is con
structed. A $300,000 bond Issue to
finance the railroad was'approved by
the voters several months ago. : The
supreme court decided, Roseburg
could not legally lend its financial
credit to a private enterprise, an'd the-
bond Issue waa held np.
By the adoption of the charter
amendment advocates of the measure
believe they bave removed the tech
nical legal hindrance.
PROinBITIOX BILL BEFORE
BRITISH COLUMBIA HOUSE
Vancouver, B. C, May 23. Th
prohibition referendum bill, which
passed caucus last Tuesday, wlll come
before the house this afternoon. With
it will be introduced the bill for the
referendum extending the franchise
to women as several measures which
must go through the house before the
referendum can legally be taken.
Iscluded ' in tomorrow's amend
ments to the election act and other
present legislation will be one giving
all soldiers the vote. This means
the men in Flanders as well as those
in the old country and Canada.
PEACE ADDRESS
Washington. May 23. President
Wilson Is working on his address to
be delivered Saturday morning at the
meeting of the League to Enforce
Peace. He is confronted by a moat
difficult task. Strong pressure Is be
ing brought on Americans to have the
president outline some definite peace
plan. On the other hand. Premier
Briand's declaration that there will
be no peace until the entente allies
win decisively indicates that the en
tente powers do not desire to talk
peace now.
In consequence, the president will
probably content himself with noti
fying the world that he is ready to
open channels for peace talk when-
ever the ' belligerent nations axe
ready. . He will also discuss how
peace is to be preserved hereafter.
Wilson is going to New York to
morrow for the wedding ot his. physi
cian, Dri Carey Grayson.
HIXDU REVOLUTION' ARY
LEADERS ARE UAXGED
San Francisco, May 23 Accord
ing to information received here to
day by Ram Chandra, editor of the
Hindustan Gazar, four more leading
Hindus have been hanged for taking
part In a revolutionary outbreak in
India. One of them was said to be
Amir Chand, iheadmaster ot the
American mission and high school at.
Delhi. . ,
One hundred other suspects har
FUG
been arrested in Calcutta.
1
