t
r\iR
WKATHER
TO-OAY AM*> TO-MORROU*. XOT
Ml Oi IH IM'KIN TKMrKRATIRr..
I.ltillT IVFJ-T WOOM.
l-iill Kr.Kirt on Vaae IS.
IVfitiTiork
^aafsmmm^ f- .ref fn I.t
awtmne
CIRCTJLATTOW
Over 100.000 Daily
Net Paid, Non-Retumable
First to Last?the Truth: News ? Editorials ? Advertisements
oi. l.WVI N<>. 25,487.
rroprriaht lata?
rhe Tril.tine Aaa'n.1
SUNDAY, AUGUST 27, 1<)1(?.-SIX PARTS-FITTY-EIGHT PAGES.
* *
price five cents.
Wilson Gains Delay in R. R. Crisis;
Calls on Congress to Aid Peaee Plan
BRITISH DRIVE
LINE NEARER
THIEPVAL GOAL
Furious Ef f orts of Ger?
mans Fail to Check
Advance.
PRUSSIAN GUARD
LEADS ATTACK
Haig's Troops Hold Firm,
Inflicting Heavy
Losses.
26w?Dcspite furious
rmani to save Thiep
h drove their hr.e
.'/.age to-day. Unigft
troops are now Iflflfl thiin 500 yards
. astern edge of this
position in the German
tom. They have long been
close to it on the flfl
bing up picked men ar.d ma??
TBfl and artillery at
thc German generals
. r attack last night.
?'? ?????>' have
n Um flwt days ol thc
nshre.
GflBBB K"ar for Mours.
ftmi prtTart-d the v-ay With
?nt that Btarted
? lav alternoon BT_d lasted well
thoareninff. Then tka Pruaaian
Guards. flrhoae. tighting qualities and
,-,- have bflflfl. felt mar.y times
in this war, advanced to the attack.
Bai Um British lines held firm. Tht-y
. d not an inch of ground to the
Geraaa rush and beat ofl the attack,
? Bg heavy losses on thc enemy.
,.._. as this assault had bflflfl ro*
|, Haifl/fl troops resumed their re
i advance toward Thiepval.
Stretch of Trenches Taken.
I the road which runs from
?o Courcclette the British
took a valuable stretch of trenches, ex
teading over 400 yards. Near tlie Mo
BfOaa. of Thiepval, they
;,rogrcss, thus narrow ing the
, i, has been cut around the
The battle around the MoflJBOl Farm
|| l? progress. The Germans
ad '.vith shells to-day the whole
Thiepval and Guille
mont, but no new attack was attempt?
ed. Apparaatly they are battering the
to prepare for other
'
At Guillemor.t, the southern ba.-tion
h hne, thc Germans made
(ietormined counter attack.
: oi li'-i.v.v artillery tire the
iTCO forward, but tht-y
te reach the Britiflh line at any
point. II. re, too, they paid a heavy
? their attack.
The determination of these counter
strok. ea the importance, the
ttaeh to the poflltfoafl be?
fore Thiepval and Guillemont. ln theae
? lacflBtratfld BBoraaooa
. hut thc British pu<h
. in the face of their
Strong I'atrolK I'epulsed.
Uaahla to make an impression on the
Maurepas, where
I men repu! patrolfl, the
; a COUnter [UOTC in the
?eetor. They mude two
heavy attacka ob the Freneh lina B?ar
? managed t'iiiy U J?i? ?
Krom this they
n out (juickly.
I rt thfl British flttaca"
nortu > mada l.y
the i.. In thc Bethune
?*ctor, north of Arraa, they atUflaptcd
:.'itish camp, hut
?tfOth tl driven back by the
In thi laal two days the Allies have
'?ken 1,15 i : .n.i, in addition,
t fluantity of bootjr fell to tha Krench
.', is an Ib
dieatii.r. that tha Allied troops on the
Sonm. ..red important suc
****** | ia slow, nevi'i
ualaai ?
The | .r.l.ardment ragfla BO**
louthwaid .'rom the Somme to thc
ng in fury along the wholfl
?IBfl, 1 ? ilmj. of the Cfll**
m?n hr.. riii.y I..- the for.rui.ner of a
ae* at:fcr;< 'lt gives the lie to German
**??? that the "A ? Pl?
"rdy ha. bt-.n ta ?
Day's Offidaf Reports
on Somme Offensive
london, Aug. ff.? Thc Hritish of?
ficial otatanonl ttnighi osngt:
Th
*?Uf.uct farm tha flghtlng continucl
.,""?*??? ln thii area and in the
?r?'.ch._ ?outh of Thiepval we huve
tommufd on ..ajr 5. culiuna 1
German U-Boats Flee
From Mystery Ships
Alfred Noyes Tells How British Fishing Trawlers, with
Concealed Guns, Trap and Sink Submarines?Germans
Now Fear Innocent Appearing Vessels.
By ALFRED NOYES.
ii.
Copyright 1916?The Tribune Ass'n.
It might be supposed that the activities I described in my
first artiele would cover all the operations of the auxiliary
fleet. But the extension of their indomitable little lines is one of
the most romantic tales in the history of naval warfare.
For many months flocks of sea-gulls had sereamed over a
certain rtrip of coast in North Africa. It was littered and
strewn with wreckage and dead bodies from merchant ships,
allies and neutrals, who had met the (ierman submarines. A
small flotilla of trawlers and drifters was dispatched to these
waters; and to-day that coast ifl clean as any of our own. The
value of these patrolfl in the Mediterranean has been grimly
proved. For on one occasion, when their numbers were smaller,
a trawler squadron was withdrawn from the mouth of the
A-driatic to deal with unexpected trouble in the .Egean.
Promptly there were submarines out through the unguarded
gates. and more wreckage and dead on the unwatched shores.
There are British longshore fishermen in the White Sea patrol
ling or frozen in, and others are now patrolling the coast of
Bulgaria. One of these tarry old skippers found that some?
thing had gone wrong with his trawler's engines. In true
Elizabethan style he got into his dingy. with two men and
three rifles, and sent his rusty old boat baek to the base. "But
(oiitlnuril on _ma>e 10. roliinin I
POLICEMEN'S SLAYER
CAUGHT AFTER FIGHT
Federici. Who Killed Two in East
Orange, Pursued for 7 Months.
lu Tftr-raph t" Tli* Tribun*. ]
Nawbarg, H. V, kug. 2*'.- After a
lapsc of seven months Antonio Federici,
who shot and killed two police officers
nt East Orange, N. J-. on December 18
last and wounded two others who were
trying to arrest him, was taken into
cu'stody here by four local policemen
1 after a tight of half nn hour in n
saloon where he had been discovered.
The police were trying to get po.
M of a loaded revolver when Pad
erici ,-eized thc hand of Officer Wiltsie
with his tceth, and it was r>( < ?
to club him to brealc his hold.
Federici, the police say. admitted he
was the person wanted, and said he
preferred to be killed in a tight rather
than be returned to New Jersey to dia
in the electric chair.
RUMANIAN KING
REBUFFS KAISER
Rcfuses to Receive Duke
AlbrechtandRefersHim
to His Ministers.
Paria, Avft ??? According to infor?
mation from diplomatic sourccs. says a
wireless diapatcfa f'om Berne. Emperor
Williata ei Genaan*" w?tc to King
Perdiaand ai Raaaania that he iateadad
to MBd Duke Alhrerht. of Mocklei.burg,
on a ipeeial mission to him w.'h rc
1 gard to the poaitioa of Kumania.
King Fardiaaad rapliad, adda the dis
patch, that the mission would be in
opportune because, as a constitut.onal
monarch, he would be obliged to refer
the envoy to his ministers and in the
circumstances he preferred that any
communication from thc German gov?
ernment should be reeeWed thiough or
diaary diplomatic channels.
Amsterdam. Aag, N. Bjf decree of
the Rumanian C'ouncil Of Ministers,
published in "The Monitor," the extra?
ordinary credit for tne army is in
? d by 200.000,000 francs ($40,000,
to 600,000,000 francs ($120,000,
000), according to a telegram from
Bucharest to-day.
"The I'niversul" announces that Gen?
eral ParaakiTaaca has been appointed
direetor of munitions, adds the dia*
patch. and that Gi-neral Popovic. ia
r j-cneral ?-' cuvalry, has been
uted to command the first army
eorpi ln aaaeaaaioa to GaaaraJ
Avereseo.
BURNS T0 DEATH AT PRAYER
Aged Woman's Dress Ignited by Candle
Before Altar in Bedroom.
A candle before an altar in the bed?
room of Mrs. Bridget Ahearn. at lf>l
IVnn Street, Brooklyn. upset yesterday
while she was at prayers and set her
dr.iaa atire. Her daughter, who came at
sound of her scicams, found her rol.ed
in flames and still clasping her ro.-ary
With laa help of a patrolman she ex
tinguished the fire in her mother's par
nients. but the burns proved fatal. Mrs.
Ahcurn was aevtnty-four years old.
BULGARS PUSH
ON IN GREECE
Allies Bring Pressure
on Constantine to
Resist Invaders
\u:. Caaaa to tu Mbom 1
London, Aug. 25. The Bulgara con?
tinue to ovcrrun Greece. Driving
' baek British eavalry patrols as they
advance, they have scized more than
tifty square miles of Eastern Mace?
donia. They have pushed as far west
as Orfano aad hnve occupied the
heights overlookin^ Kavaia.
Diplomatic circles in London heard
' to-day of ne*** ncj-otiations with
, Athena. Under pressure of the Allied
fleet, King Constantine was t'orced to
demobilise his army last spring and
to pledge a aanerolent neutrality. But
the Bulgar advance has altered con?
ditions.
The Entente Powen are now con
?idering new demands on Athens.
They arill not countenance, it is said,
I a free entry to the Bulgar, as the oc
cupation of Baatarn Macedonia threat
' ens the flank of Sarrail's army, .stnv
i ing to advance up tha Vardar Valley.
If King Constantiae, therefore, can
retain control of the situation and
prevent Greek iatarrantion la the
' war on the side of the Allies the En?
tente may force his hand again.
Will Demand Kestriclion.
The ipaciflc nature of the new re
? quirementi the Aliie.s may impose is
not known here. but thc assumption is
that they will demand a restriction on
Bulgar movements.
There are increasing signs, how?
ever, that the resentment among thc
Greeks themselves may bring so strong
1 an agitation for the ejection of the
Bulgar that Constantine may be foreed
to yield. Such strugglcs as the heroic
resistance of the Greek commander at
Seres have aroused the Greeks. This
Bg has h. en mten.^ried by a Bul
gariaa attack on the Greek fort of
Startila. where, according to dispatches
from Salonica, the Greek commander,
Chan-gaa, and the entire garrison were
killed after spinted rrsistance.
Until thc Bulgar drive ll halted Sar
! rail la "ot likeiy to resume the ad?
vance up the Vardar Valley. London
to-night reports only artillery actions
on the Doiran front. Oa the Struma,
too where the Bulgara are intrenched,
the' Allied forces huve attempted no
! action.
18 Serh Attacks Repulsed.
On the we.-tern end of the lighting
line the Bulgars are still forgingaheai
Th.y report that eighteen consecutive
attacks by the Serbs bet ......-i. August 51
?nd 28 were hurled baek "with immense
lOBBea." <>n the aCegaaa cc.ast British
eavalry patrols were repulsed.
Mcanwhile the Italians, holding the
Albaaiaa lme, have begun an advance.
Thev have seized I'orto Palermo ift.d
the BUBimit Of Mount Kalarat, in South?
ern Alhania, and are sending out more
de?achments from their ba.-e at \a!ona.
An offensive by the Italians in this
sector would force the Bulgars to send
l uutiuueU on i>aie 5, column I
WHITE HOUSE
RING ANGERS
DEMOCRATS
Upheaval Is Likely
in the National
Committee.
"BIG THREE" RULE
IS RESENTED
House, Morgenthau and
McAdoo Seeking to
Run Campaign.
A White House cotcrie that has taken
entire charge of the Demoeratic cam
jraign to tha axelasioB of Vance Mc?
Cormick, nation.-il chairman, and J-'r.d
erick B. Lynch, of Minncsota, chairman
of the Demoeratic executive committee,
:s causing mueh friction in the Demo?
eratic party, it transpired yeaterday.
An upheav.il lt r.bout due that will re?
sult in the removal of two or more
persons at present connected with the
campaign.
Lynch, who was onco slated for the
national chairmanship, has not even a
tiesk at national headquarters, and the
treatment hc is receiving is being re
sented by hi? friends on the Demo?
eratic National Committee. His posi?
tion la somewhat similar to that of
Frank H. Hitchcock in the Republican
party before he BM named on Chair?
man Willcox'. advisory committee.
The entire N'ew York organizntion ia
also angry because of the sidetrocking
of N'orm/.n K. Mack, an.l Illinois has a
gricvance at laBflt the friends of Roger
Sullivan have because no Illinois mar
has been appointed on the Demoeratic
campaign committee.
"Big Three" Run Campaign.
"The "big three" who are running
the campaign, leaving McCormick
hardly more than a tigurehcad, arc
Colonel E. M. House, Henry Morgen?
thau and William G. McAdoo. The dis?
pute haa even been earried into the
White House, and has reached Joseph
Tumulty, seeretary to the I'resident, a
friend of Lynch. Colonel House and
Tumulty scarcely speak to each other,
and the seeretary is said to have re?
ceived orders to open no mail that
pas ies between Colonel House and the
Pr< tident. Friends of Lynch at na?
tional headquarters have become the
object of suspicion to such an extent
that a shakc-up is said to be due this
week.
The clique which surrounds Presi?
dent Wilson became active immediately
after Mr. Wilson went to Washington.
The lirst man they went after was Will?
iam F. McCombs, and they suceeeded in
getting his position as chairman of the
national committee. The coterie con
sisted then of McAdoo, Seeretary of the
Treasury and son-in-law of I'resident
Wilson; Colonel House, Wilson's chief
i.lviser; Moigcnthau, the Demoeratic
party's biggest money mar., and Thomas
I'ence, publieity director of thc Demo?
crats, who has since dieti.
Lynch, Coterie's Choice.
After McCombs had been ousted the
trio east their eyes about for a chair?
man for the l'Jlt; campaign. Lynch had
become a national tigure m politics
through backing Governor John John?
son of Minnesota for the Presidency in
1908. The campaign Lynch conducted
in Johnson's behalf attracted national
attention, but Covernor Johnson died
hefore thc 190S convention araa held.
Lynch was one of the tirst to shift to
Wilson at thc R.iltimore convention in
l'.'lJ, and was regarded as one of the
most practical and forceful men in the
I .iiiiiiiiir.l oi> i?a?e 9. column B
MEASURES DISCUSSED BY WILSON
AND DEMOCRATIC SENATE LEADERS
Washington, Aug. 2H.?The mcaturea relating to the railroad xitua
tion dinciataed at the Capitol to-day by Pratident Wilson and thc Demo?
cratic Senate leaders were. thcue:
First?An amendment to the bill already passed by the House
increasing the Interstate Commeree Commission from seven to nine
members. This amendment to provide that it is the sense of the Con?
gress that the commission in deciding petitions for freight rate in
creases shall take wage schedules into consideration. It has not been
the custom of the commission to consider wage increases at all in
adiusting freight rates. ?
Second?An amendment to the Newlands act which created the
Board of Mediation and Conciliation. This amendment would provide
that the board, even though its services are rejected by both sides to
a railroad labor controversy, shall be empowered to interpose and in
vestigate the rnerits of the dispute, and both sides to the dispute shall
be enjoined against either a strike or a lockout pending the outcome
of the investigation.
Borden's Ship Wrecked
On Arctic Rescue Hunt
Runs Into Rock and Sinks'While Searching in Storm for
Vessel That Was Reported To Be
in Distress.
Nome, Alaska, Aug. 26. The United
States Guard cutter McCulloch is ex
! pected to reach here to-morrow with
the members af the Uorden-Lanc Arctic
j expedition, who were picked up yester?
day at Bt, Mathew's Island in Bering
Sea, twenty-five miles aouthwest of
Nome, where their new power schooner
' Great Bear was wrecked August 10.
A brief report received here said that
'. the wreck was the result of an attempt
' by Captain Louii Lane, maiter of the
J ship and joint owner with John Borden,
' of Chieago. to inve.s.igate a report that
! another ves?el had been wrecked in that
I vicinity. Captain Lane received the re
; port shortly before midnight and turned
; off his course to investigate.
A great storm was raging, and at
| 12:53 a. m. the Great Bear struck on
I Pinnacle Rock, a bleak, desolate vol
{ canic islet so named by Captain Cook.
Pinnacle Rock is not far from Bt Mat
| thew's Island, nnd the party aboard the
! Great Bear not only reached shore
j safely, but took from the wreck provis
! ions on which they subsisted fifteen
I days until found by the McCulloch,
' which was sent in search of them when
I the schooner was more than a week
overdue at Nome.
Nothing is known here of the vessel
supposed to have been in need of as
? sistance and which Captain Lane was
j seeking.
Chieago, Aug. 26. John Borden, a
Chieago capitalist, sportsman and trav
lallar, nnd Captain Louis Lane, of Seat
SING SING REMEMBERS
ITS NEGLECTED DEAD
Prisoners Clear Graveyard and
Hew Marble Shaft.
On the brow of the hill that rise*
above the Hudson, back of Sing Sing.
; lies the graveyard of forgotten men, a
dusty, unturfed, uncared for spot where
, the bodies of a thousand convicts vkfl
' never finished their "bits" are buried.
Wooden markers slant this way and
I that above the mounds. There are no
? v.ithered flowers to bear witness that
! tny one remembers. One woman liaa
[with this desokte company?Bella
' Rosa. who died Ifl the prison in LHS.
Yesterday the Mutual Welfare League
began to clean up the scrapa of paper
I that scattcred the place, and to grade
? the walks and plant grass. At their
direction one of the convicts, a marble
cutter, has started work on a marble
i shaft to be a common monument above
' these forgott. n graves. The inscrip
j tion will be only two lines:
r'Terhaps in this neglected spot is laid
' Some heart still pregnant with celestial
fire."
All There?
Is your Tribune this morning all there? This is
what you should have:
Parl I -The Mam New. Part III- Editor.al. Re- Pail V -The Tribune
,ort.. Financiat. - ?'l""' T .
Section. Part VI - Die 1 ribune
Part IV-T h e a I r e ? , Graphic (iwo ?ec
Parl 11 -Sporling See- SUttc, Children, The llon. 0f 8 big pagei
tjon. Tribune ln*ti'ule. each).
Any part of The Sunday Tribune is too valuable to
go without. so check the list over carefully. Sometimea
sections get lost in the handling. Let us know of any
mistake and we'll replace what is missing.
a <Zht _$imitaij STritmtu ^
*EA, First to Uat-the Truth- '^mmT
BMl^/ Stn* Editorial*? Adiertitement*. J___R
.jBflD_L. Membar of tha AuJlt B jrtau of arculatlonB. .iBtaUBOLlL..
tie, owned the r-ower schooner Great
Bear, which, including her equipment,
cost $75,000. The boat was 137'feet
long, 32-foot beam and had a draft
of 14 feet and a speed of seven knots
per hour. Her oaken hull was sheathed
in iron wood.
The Great Bear carried 5,000 Kal
lons of fuel and about $3,000 worth of
p-rovi-non*.
"Entire party well," was the eheer
ing news received by Mrs. Borden.
wife of the explorer, in a wireless mes- ,
sacc received from her husband to- i
day.
Another message rald the party ex- ;
jected to reaeh N'ome, Alaska. Sun?
day.
The new power schooner Great Bear
left her* July -?> for nn ext<*nded cruise
into the Artic. When the vessel left
here, Mr. Borden, Captain Lane and j
N'orria Blokum, of Chicago. and a crew
af twenty men were aboard. Others
went by mail steamer to N'ome, where
they expected to join the expedition. |
The Great Bear was especially con- '
structed to withstand the pressure pf ;
the Arctic ice rloes and it was Captain
Lane's intention to penetrate as far
as Banks Land. where he expected to
meet Vilhjalmur Stefansson, the Ca?
nadian Arctic explorer, for whom he
carried supplies.
Until the wireless message was re?
ceived to-day, nothing had been heard
from the Grent Bear since the time
when she arai reported leaving Un- i
alaska for N'ome. The trip across Ber
ing S"H ihoald not have required more
than a week and when she failed to
trrWe at N'ome, great anxiety was felt
for those on board. and the McCul
loch was dispatched to search among
the islands.
T. R. TO GO TO AFRICA
ON HUNT, IS REPORT
Will Leave After Election, For?
mer Comrade Says.
my T.l-craph lo Th- Tri: | 1
Marion, Ohio, Aug. 2'*. George Sco- j
ville, blacksmith with Theodore Roose
rail on his 1908 trip to Africa, says j
the Colonel will leave for another
hunting trip to Africa soon afte* thc
Presidential election. Scoville says
Colonel Roosevelt has already hired
him to accompany him.
The news of the proposed trip came
out by accident. A reporter was inter
viewin* Scoville on his previoua hunt,
arkaa he said: "Yes, I was with Roose?
velt in Africa, and am going baek with
him in December."
He refused to tell anything more,
saying: "The Colonel has always
treated me fair, and his last words
were to keep away from reporters."
SPEEDY P0LICEMAN
OUTRACES RUNAWAY
Mile-a-Minute Murphy Halts a
Horse on Bridge.
A runaway dashed through the 7
o'eloek traffic on the Manhattan Bridge
la3t night, the swaying wagon carrom
ing from other vehicles on the north
roadway. William Brown, the driver,.
was flung from hii seat, and the horse '
gathered new energy with every leap.
Behind it a motorcycle patrolman
bent over his handlebara, coaxinp- the
laat bit of apeed out of the machine.
He was "Mile-a-Minute" Murphy, who
won his r.ickname on a "safety" paced
bv a Long Island train. Just before ,
the horse started his final gpurt down
the incline leading to the Canal Ittaat
plaza, the aputtering motor drew
alongside, and Murphy flung himself at
the bridle.
His aim was sure, and. while the ;
niotor;y;le *aabi*led and fell on its side
tha horse yieldad to the man that was
swinging from his head. As he came
to a tinal itop the driver jumped from
an automobile that had given him a
lift and took the reins. Thc horse
had bolted when the bit broke.
TALK WITH EXECUTIVES
POSTPONED HLL MONDAY
President Makes Spectacular Trip
to Capitol to Urge Senators
to Give Aid.
UNION LEADERS ANGRY,
THREATEN TO GO HOME
Managers Gain by Waiting Till They Have
Given the Public a Chance to Learn
Their Side of the Controversy.
[From a Staff Correspondent of The Tribune]
Washington, Aug. 26.?President Wilson made a spectacu?
lar move to-day that forestalled a crisis in the railroad contro?
versy for at least another day.
After word had been sent to the White House this after?
noon that the railroads were ready to submit to him their
counter plan the President hurried to the Capitol to consult
with the Senate leaders. It was a last daring effort to secure
legislation that will satisfy the roads' demands for insurance
against future industrial difficulties and freight rate increases
to recompense them for the change iifwage schedules necessi
tated by an acceptance of the original Wilson settlement pro?
posal.
Foreed to play the shrewdest game of his eareer, President
Wilson adroitly avoided meeting the railroad executives. He
knew they had prepared a proposition that would shift the
burden ot responsibility back to his shoulders. Their plan had
been so perfected that if the President received their proposal
and the public was left to judge the situation his baek would
be to the wall.
_??$ Meeting Off Till Monrlay.
MPS. ADAMS HELD
FOR KILLING CAPTAIN
Woman Now Quoted as Denying
Her Charge of Improper Acts.
;i:> Napajft la r *> Trti.u.-.f 1
Macon, Ga., Aug. 26. Mrs. H. C.
Adams. of Atlanta, who was held to?
day without bond to await the aetion
of the grand jury for killing Captain
Edgar 4. Spratling, of the National
Guard of Georgia, yesterday, made a
number of apparer.tly conflicting state?
ments to-day regarding her motives.
Soon after her arrest the woman,
who is about thirty years old and the
mother of three children, was quoted
as saying that improper attentiona to
her on the part of Captain Spratling,
who in private life was a physieian in
Atlanta, had caused her to shoot him.
Mrs. Adams also was quoted by per?
sons who talked with her at the jail
as declaring that the alleged actions
on the part af Spratling did not cause
the killing *nd that she would not now
tell what prompted the act.
According io tne officers, Mrs. Maud
Monk, a nurse, said she had seen a
letter from Mrs. Adams stating that Ifj
the captain did not bring her .Mrs.
Adams i to Macon, she would come here
and "put out his lights."
'?It's just a case cf jeaiousy, said
Mrs. Monk.
The body of Captain .Spratling will
he buricd at Opelika, Ala. The officer
was forty-seven years old, married, but
had no children.
CLOTHES AND SUICIDE
NOTE FOUND AT BATHS
But Skeptical Attendant Mourns
Loss of Bathing Suit.
A pair of black trousers, a white
fhirt, size 14, and a pair of shoes were
found last night in Room IMI of the
Keonoupouly Baths, on Hendcrson's
Walk, Ccney Island. With them was
thi> note: "Am tired of Iiving and
will end it all."
The police believed that the owner
had committed taicide. Frank Bruno,
the atter.dant who found the clothes,
w..- skeptical.
"That feller left about .10 cents
worth of clothes," he pointed out, "an'
has gone oiT in a bathing suit worth
DEAN'S SON, WHO SANK
LUSITANIA, DECORATED
Kaiser Himself Honors Com
mander of Submarine.
London, Aug. 26. -The "Stifts-Ti
dende," of Ribe. Denmark, is quoted in
a Reuter dispatch from Copenhagen at
saying that the commander of the sub?
marine which sa.nk the Lusitania was
Captain Max Valentiner, son of the
dean of the ^ondersburg Cathedral.
Captain Valer.tiner, this newspaper
says, has beei decorated with several
orders since the sinksr.g of the liner,
including the Iron Cross af the First
Claas and the Hohenzollem House Or?
der with Swords, a distinction which
is the perional gift of the German
Emperor.
Announcement was made at the
White House to-night that the Presi?
dent would not meet the railroad
executives until 10 o'eloek on Mon?
day morninj*;. His position now is
the most delicate and hazardous since
he began the negotiations. His post?
ponement of a meeting with the rail?
roads' executives was determined in
the faee of menacing news from the
four brotherhood ehiefs that the dele
gate chairmen of the unions would
leave Washington after thoy meet to
morrow morning at 10 o'eloek with
strike orders in their pockets.
At the eapital the President dis
cusged with Senators NVwlamls ar.d
Kern a proposition to inerease the
Interstate Commeree Commission
from seven to nine members, and to
give the commission power to inves
tijrate wages, as well as to provide
for a system of compulsory arbitra?
tion.
President Wilson is relying upon
his influence with Congress as well
as upon the realization of his party
members in that body that it is po
litically expedient to pass this legis?
lation to prevent a strike by these
means. So that to-night, providing
the President can persuade the broth?
erhood leaders to wait a few daya
longer and approve of these meas?
ures, the settlement of the impending
strike is up to Congress.
I nions in Warlike Mood.
On the other hand it is extremelj*
j cioubtful whether the unions, openly
i indignant at the delay which is mak?
ing eapital for the railroads all the
while and losing ground for them,
will consent either to further delay
or compulsory investigation of tho
controversy before they strike. It
would not seem to be such a difficult
task to get the railroads to agree to
the Wilson plan if the proposed leg?
islation is obtained. It is what they
have asked for, and The Tribune cor?
respondent was reliably informed to
night that the roads probably would
accept it as suffkient guarantee of
the principle of arbitration and rate
increases.
The question is what Congress would
do in the event that the Preaident triea
to force sucr* legislation through.
Senator N'ewlands, chairman of the
Senate Interstate Commeree Commit?
tee, and Senator Kern, floor leader, tha
two men whom the Preaident coniulted,
received little encouragement froia
their associatea when they talked the
auggestions over with them. It wai
apparent that there would be a flght in
the Senate on the President's legia
lative programme.
Houae la iVfi.int
The Senate opposition, however.
j would be comparatively weak. com?
pared with what the Preaident would
