GO -s PIOC
-t ni~ht?.Not for anY Importa 7 1 I
purehase, for the stores havea ~ti
of b, Ing closed at night. it'a in Itbd h Cn
morning that you sot out to bvy, ad
the r dl that appear In.. the ukorfalka
P&r,(ri are yeur mon relable gui.
NO. 3601. WEATUR-FAIL WASHINGTON. D. C.. SUNDAY. AUGUST 27. 1916. ONE CENT.
BULGARS SEIZE
FIFTY MILES OF
LANO IN GREECE
Eastern Flank of Allied Armie
Menaced as Foe Draws
Near to Saloniki.
Led... Aug. 29,-JMe Baltgarbo
hate 5o04.e ofty maln of Greek ter"
tory on the Aegean Sea and are me
aing the eastern ank of the ale
armies, according to effletal annomnee
menta In Seia.
A war offee statement Isued thei
tudientes that the invaders are in 04
cuaution of all northeastern Groo
from the Bulgarian frontier to th
Aegens Sea.
From this direction their left-win
armies are less than ftty miles fel
Snloiki, hse of the allied expedi
ties.
The sam. statement records a hear
defeat of the Serbians on the wester
wing of the entente front. Not only ha,
they, tijade proartss northwest of 1ak,
Ostrove on the Clganska ridge. but stron
Serbian atta-ks in the Moglenca secto
were repu:ad with heavy losses. th
Serbians 7A"tirin-.
The strong menace on the Aegea
oast 11 indcated by the fact that th
rulgarlans have seized a number 0
position% around Orfano. the preser
extremity of the allied front.
Thev report that British advance
grouprin this region were driven in.
The Greek fort of Startila also hs
teen 5.eized a\ the invaders. actordin
t a dispatch to the Paris Matin. Th
garrison L said to have been wiped out.
Th,. ant the other Bulgar an incursion
are reported to have so a'ousted the Gre,.
topulace that the rior-,nm-eit feels Lar
r a
The govrment i s much worrie
about a meeting of Van lists schecule
to he h-+d in At en o t o o w.
ENTENTE CHECKED ON
ALL SIDES, iS CLAIN
Major Moraht. German Expert, Re
views Situation.
Ihy the Internationsl News Aervice.
Berlin (via Sayville,. Aug. 26.-Ma
raht. writtng in thre Berliner Tage
latt says -oncerning the military situ&
,rman t- ra. now successfully hol
In check the entente offensive on a
..:.,. trom the somme. Thiaumon
Fl-ury. and Pinsk to the Roumanian fron
tier, as well as on the Isonzo front. wher
Ih- Italians anust prepare for entirel
fresh hattle pnsitions. whle the con
ltaned German-ltul:,rian offe.nive in th
Balkans is metihdicallI -rogressing
- If th. Fr,-n-h art on the Somm
front observe more axtly. they wi
aaroaver the -am- n mbe r of fresh Gei
man rosiatran as tho:- takn by ti
Anglo-Frernch troops. Yet M. Flerve. i
I* ' VI oir . p-- s his delight ove
1'a.t that th Frnch have stormate
th l posit;,n
lthough 4;en Rr-l!ff's troops ar
ir atihin7 profoun dly. wvhi *h as no sign <
ar-. it .. ere- that a;- rman troot
a b- trsan-arta lth East an
1'1 th thle a r--- m:ain t the Frene
wo'ld b lmin oh-ed'
TOLEDO DEATH RATE HIGH.
Seenteen. %uennmh to Paralysis It
Se%entyi-three Cases Reported.
Trb-d,, 4ji. .% N-Th-e commissio
aai..r.t.d JI a Kr-aty health departmerl
to dei- a, an. of overcoming the sprea
of int.antia- '-uarv here today ordere
a .at all children under 16 be barred fror
ami ,a' picture ;),oAs and other place
cf ,li: nte-rtr:nment.
11 als was -mmmended that publi
swaning pool- and playgrounds h
tlosed and that Sunday schools be sue
pended teanporarily. An official state
ment from the health department toda
caid that there have been I7 deaths i
7 as reported.
ASKS $100.000 HEART BALM.
Ni onan sues Brother-In-Law for Al
leged Breech of Promise.
St. Louis. alo.. Aug. 2.-Vera Elizabet
Shore has tiled suit against her brother
in-.ax. lienry B. Graham. for 3100, al
11-fng breach of promise. Graham i
the son of the late Ilenry B. Grahan
millionaire paper manufacturer.
tiraham was divorced from his thir
ai fe on Jane 3. and on June 30 Ver
tEhzabeth Shore divorced Edward J
Saaowden. to whoo she had been marrie
ibrte-ra years. She was arranging t
wed Grahaia when he married her sister
Gieorgiana Marion Shore, in Michigan.
SAW WAY TO FREEDOM.
Viaor M Issoort convict. Eacape Uaer
iux: Thunderstorm.
Jefferson Cit-.. Mo.. Aug. .-The mom
-- y-s from he Stat
Penitentiary here became known toda
- , 1:, n . thieals learned that fou
convicts, one of them serving a life tern
---------. med thaeir way out of thel
a<elts last night and daaring a sever
-ar-ton s'airda - the tarison walls.
Bloodhounds immediately were put 0
\'ath ela,- b.. int thae tier in which th
,-onvi-ts were confined lock with a slid
InC steel bar, and this was cut wit
suaws. .
SE00TrS TO AVL. E OLD DEATH.
lin Wound, Relative for Kilting
Une Twienty-twvo leara Ago.
Springt'e~d. Mo., Aug. M-In an at
tempt at revenge for the killIng of hi
father. Dir. R. P. Watson, twenty-tw
teos a::o. at Newport. Ark.. Sivey Wat
sont wouanded R. T. Simmons. his broth
e--in-law, who was here attending a fain
ily reunion at the home of anothe
brother. Baxter Watson.
Sinmons was shot In the head. but no
dangerously hurt. Watson was arrested
but Simrmons told the authoritlies h
would not prosecute.
Sunday Outin= te Philadelphin. jL0
Chester. 32.25; Wllmiangton. S3-.0 round
trip. Baltimore and OhIo. 7:05 a. *l
Telegraph Tips
London. Aug. ,--Before a military
court on the Isle of Man, Vincent Hu
beck, a Gerrnan prisoner, pleaded guilty
to trying to escape from a detention
camp. He declared that he was an
American citizen and had asked that his
case be taken up by the Home Office.
Franklin, Pa., Aug. Z.-Duffleld Smith,
27. Was killed today while working at a
threshing machine In Rockland tow"i
ship, when the table upon Which he was
standing collapsed and a splinter of
wood from the wrecked table penetrated
his neck and pierced the jugular vein.
Scranton. Pa. Aug. 2.-A man be
lieved to be Frank Woods, of Bethlehem.
Pa., was shot and killed early today by
Detective John Caruschiello. whom' he
and another highwayman were trying to
hold up.
-I.Berlin. Aug. 26.-A degree honoris
causa has been conferred upon Capt.
e Paul Koenig by the medical section of
Halle University for his explqit in taking
' the merchant submarine Deutschland to
the United States and bringing her back
to Germany.
a Amsterdam, Aug. 3.-A Zeppelin which
- flew over Maasterich yesterday is re
ported to have ben badly damaged by
fire from high Ingle guns on the Dutch
.ifrontier. It was compelled to land at
Liege for repairs.
Independence. Kan., Aug. 3.-The Prai
r ie Oil and Gas Company posted here to
day a further cut of 5 cents in the price
of crude oil, making it 90 cents a barrel.
Oskining, N. Y.,Aug. Mq.-"Giggles"
Guglielmo. 'trusty" convict in Sing Sing.
wanted to go to New York to visit his
dying father. His request was denied.
and Guglielmo asked to be locked up in
his cell, so he couldn't run away.
Boston. Aug. N.-Ty Cobb, crack out
fielder of the Detroit American League
club. will undergo an operation after the
close of the baseball seeson for the re
moval of his tonsils. he -tid today.
Chattanooga, Tenn.. Aug. 2A.-All street
car service was resumed today, with the
company fully recognizing the rnewly or
ganized union and reinstating discharged
men.
Harrisburg. Pa.. Aug. N.-Superintend
ent of Detectives has Issued a warning
to housewives not to hang out stockings,
bathing suits or other garments, If they
are pink. as a thief has been robbing
wash-:ines of 'pink things." leaving gar
ments of other hues behind.
New Orleans, Aug. 2s.-rances Riley,
an eight-year-old Greek girl, nwoke to
day to be told she had in)erited he,
grandmother's estate, said to be worth
several hundred thousand dollars. near
I Athens, Greece. She also learned that
John Labadrote. a relative with whom
she has been staying, and her stepmoth
er, Mrs. J. M. Riley. prepared to start a
legal fight for her custody.
Targo, Fla.. Aug. 26.-M. C. Knight.
cashier of the Bank of Largo, shot and
- killed himself at his home here. A note
addressed. Se his wife, the -'olice saa.
indicated that he expected to be dis
- charged. An audit of the books Is being
e made.
i Bastrop, Ta., Aug. 26.-Dr. B. M. M
Koin. of Mer Rouge. shot and killed Dr.
K. P. Thom. of Gallion. during a quarrel
on the main street of the latter town.
McKoin surrendered. He told the officers
he shot in self-defense.
Sandusky. Ohio. Aug. N.-1-' hundred
and ten missions under its jurisdiction in
various parts of the United States and
Canada, together with the missionaries in
charge, will share in an appropriation of
$60.50 authorized by the Central Lutheran
Synod in biennial session here, the for
mer to the extent of improvements and
the latter in salary.
Fall River, Mass.. Aug. 2.-Fifteen hun
dred employes of the American Printing
:Compan,. a textile manufacturing con
cern. W(re thrown out of work lastnight.
whn the company closed its plant for an
Indefinite period. The decision to close
followed a strike of 250 employes for a
readjustment of wages and working
hours.
Boston, Mass.. Aug. 26.-The Boston and
| Maine receivers' fight will come into open
court next Tuesday. Federal Judge Put
nan gave order of notice today on the
petition filed by Boyd B. Jones. as coun
sel for the Inter-Continental Rubber
Company of New York. for the appoint
ment of a receiver for the railroad.
Reading. Aug. 26.-Weary of offi
cial red tape, fifty women of Mulberry
street. led by Mrs. Charles Dautrich.
I yesterday organized a street-cleaning
I brigade and swept the whole block,
and will oil it. The cits spent $12,000
in oiling other streets.
New York. Aug. 26.-Thomas Edison,
John Burroughs. the naturalist, and H. S.
g Firestone, of Akron. Ohio, are going back
, to nature. They will leave Monday for
a two weeks' camp In the Adirondacks.
Curling. N. F., Aug. 26.-Fire last night
destroyed the large Church of England
s hool here.
The Hague. Aug. 2.-A Berlin dispatch
tates that busirfess done by the Ger
man potash syndicate during the first
%,-n months of 1916 amounted to 102.
N0.I marks (S".7:,.000). against 70,150,000
marks ($17.622.00) in 191-, and 113,000.01)
mark., ($28,2400)in 1914. The statement
was made that American crops this year
will suffer from lack of German potash.
Chicago. Aug. 26-Prince Mahidol
of Songkla. brother of the King of
Siam, who arrived in Chicago today
en route to Gloucester. Mass.. to spend
lb e summer, plans tb stay In America
five years,.h said, and will study at
Harvard.
-San Francisco. Aug. 26.--Injunction
suits to block a proposed $20,000,000
packing merger involving the Alaska
Packing Association, the California
%Fruit Canners' Association. Central
California Canneries, J. K. Armnsby
Company and others. are threatened
by Henry F. Fortmann, a minority
stockholder in the Alaska Packing
jAssociation.
Rochester. N. .,Aug. 2.-When
two boys. Albert C. Smith, 9 years old.
aqgd his brother, Clayton. 5 years old.
were playing. with their father's shot
gun here yesterday afternoon, it was
accidentally discharged and the young
er boy was instantly killed.
Hagerstown, Md.. Aug. 26.--Refusal
of Judge M. L. Keedy to Issue a liquor
license to Edward Garrett, at Gap
land. is based on the conclusion that
there Is no local demand for the sa
loon.,.and that it was Intended merely
to attract customers from the adjoin
Ing "dry" State of West Virginia. The
court held that such travel wohid
1make the roads anrous
NUGHES SCRES
WILSON REGIME
Says Administration Left Citi
zens to Face Death.
By WILLIAM HOe sIti6.
InEternatiemal News Servic.)
Denver, Col.. Aug. 2L-Charles E.
Hughes close the first three weeks of
his tranhcontinehtal campaign tour at a
big meeting In the Auditorium here to
night.
Hughes' parting word before going ivto
his mountain retreat left this Indictment
against the Wilson administration:
"Before I leave I want to say what is
very close to my heart. We have g :t to
have economic, business-like administra
tion of government In this countr. in
charge of competent men.
"Our opponents said they would reduce
the cost of living. They haven't reduce:1
it.
"They said they would stand ior- the
merit system In government. They have
shamelessly betrayed the merit system
In government.
"'They said they were for the mainte
nance of the constitutional rights of
American citizens throughout the world.
They left our citizemi to be murdered and
their property to be destroyed right here
in Mexico close to our boundary.
"They did say they were opposed to
a tariff for protection. That they carried
out, with the result t hqt before the Eu
ropean war broke out. \nemployed men
were walking the Atrech of our cities,
jobless, asking for work and having to
he fe.d by countless charitable organiza
tions.
I want to see efficiency In government,
efficiency in business," he/declared, "effi
ciency in the execution of all laws relat
ing to governmental activity. I desire to
see a contented people, living under just
laws as fellow working men, fellow
laborers in a splendid co-operative en
terprise. That is what free institutions
neans. They mean co-operation.
"Now. my friends, I leave the word
with you. Shall we. as a great people.
ndvance and hold ourselves in the diffi
eIlt days of the twentieth century? If
I can aid to the accomplishment of that
end, my service is at your command.'
BABY EATS POISON;
SAVED IN 3 HOURS
First Aid Treatment Given at Cas
ualty Hospital.
Doctors at Casualty Hospital regard
as remarkable the case of 2-year-old
John Shannon Litchfield. who was
rushed to that institution at 11o'clock
yesterday morning after having swal
lowed eight tablets containing a high
percentage of strychnine, and frem a
dying condition recovered sufficiently
to be removed to his home, 610 Morris
street northeast. at 8 o'clock in the
evening.
The tot climbed on a chair in the
parlor of the house while his mother.
Mrs. Israel D. Litchfield, was prepar
ing luncheon in the kitchen, and ate
eight pellets from a bottle which he
thought contained candy. One min
ute later the little fellow toddled into
the kitchen. complaining of pain in
his stomach and immediately went
into convulsions.
Mrs. Litchfi-ld frantically called
Casualty Hospital and an ambulance
r'-ponded. carrying Dr. Harry H. War
ner, who applied first-aid treatment to
the sufd'ring child. At the hospital
physicians worked three hours over
him and saved his life.
The mother never left her son for a
honent and was overjoyed when as
sured that he would recover. The po-I
sonous tablets had been prescribed by
a physician for the use of Mrs. Litch
field as a cure for nervous troubles.
$20 FOR $400 DIAMOND.
Waitress Receives Reward for He
turning Lost Gem.
Colorado Springs. Colo., Aug. 26.
Luck was with Mrs. Rose Whitworth,
wife of a TuIsa (Okla.) business man,
when she dropped a diamond setting from
her ring in the McRae cafe. The gem
weighs two karats, and is valued at $400.
It .lipped from &he owner's hand while
she was at lunch.
Three hours later she returned. having
missed the jewel, and Billy Jones, man
ager, was able to return her diamond by
reason of the honesty of the waitress,
who found it on the floor.
The waitress is richer by $20.
$3,000 ON INJURED WOMAN.
Startled by Bell, She Falls from
Fourth Story Window.
Philadelphia. Aug. 26.-Startled by the
ringing of the doorbell, Miss Adeline
Brady fell from a windo'w of her apart
ment on the fourth floor of 436 West For
ty-ninth street. She was taken to I
Flower Hospital. injured Internally
Three $1.000 bills were found in a bag
suspended from her neck. They consti
tuted the insurance she received on the
death of her mother.
.HERE'S A JOY RIDING CAT.
Gives Kittens Ride on Dumbwaiter,
Pulling Rope with Claws.
Winstead, Conn., Aug. 26.-At the farm
house of W. C. Johnson, near here, there
is a dumbwaiter running from the base
ment kitchen to the dining-room above,I
operated by means of a rope.
Mr. Johnson's cat has been seen to take
her young, one at a time, to the "car"
and then hoist them to the ,story above
by pulling the rope with her claws,
RUSS GET RE-ENFORCEMENTS,
Huge Armie. Being Massed in -
kowina, Says Report.
Berne, Aug. 26.-Huge Russian~ rein
forcements are being massed in Buko
wina and before Kovel by General
Brusiloff, writes the war correspondent
of the Vienna Allgemeine Zeituing.
This Indicates another tremendjous ef
fort by the Russians to force the passes
in the Southern Carpathians and another1
drive against the German base at Kovel.
British Silent on Bremen.
London. Aug. 2.-A high offcial of thle
Abniralty was asked today about the
report from New York that the-German
merchant submarine Btremen had been
captured by the Britsh and taken into
Dover on August 7, but he refused tol
confirm or deny it,
Say Son of Cathedral
Dea Sank Lusitania
spadal to The Whsto, Herad.
London, Aug. 26,-The Stifts
Tidensde of Ribe. Denmark, Is quot
ed in a Router dispatch from
Copenhagen to the effect that the
commander of the submarine
which sank the Lusitania was
Capt. Max Valentiner, son of the
dean of the Sondersburg Cathedral.
Capt. Valentiner. this newspaper
says, has been decorated with a
number of orders since the sinking
of the vessel, including the Iron
Cr of the first class and the
Hohenzollern House Order with
swords, a special distinction which
is the personal gift of the German
Emperor.
GIRL "SLAVE" PRISON
FOUND BY OFFICIALS
Fair Captives Held in Bondage in
Alleged Vice Resort.
(By the Internatiomal News .iersice.)
New Y rk, Aug. 2A-A resort into
which pretty young girls are lured and
held in captivity until they can be sold
into bondage In this and other cities, is
said to have been discovered by the dis
trict attorneys's office as a result of Judge
Swann's crusade against vice.
Half a score of handsome young
women, who, Smith believes, were forced
into a life of misery sld shame have
been subpoenaed as witnesses.
"It is evident," said Mr. Smith today.
that Kugelman. alleged white slaver.
now under arrest. picked out girls of
education and refinement one of thme
young women who has been subpoenaed
is a floor manager in a well-known
Broadwav hotel. Another was a cashier
in a restaurant. All the girls were oi
refinement until they met him."
Five women begged Mr. Smith today
to institute search for girl relatives they
believe have been forced into lives of
shame. In three of the cases, Mr. Smith
was furnished with information which
offered valuable leads.
One woman, a rich wife. who lives in
a luxurious home on Washington Heights,
told Mr. Smith her 19-year-old sister had
gone on an excursion in July. She be
came acquainted with a handsome young
spender. The next day the girl disap
peared.
ENTOMBED TWO WEEKS
IN SALT MINE; ALIVE
Employe Wins Battle With Death by
Eating Brine.
(By the International News Service.)l
Geneseo, N. Y., Aug. 26.-Wandering
about the recesses of an unusued passage
way of the Retos Mining Company's salt
mine about a mile and a half from this
city for the past fiftee.: days, keeping
alive by eating salt brine. was the story
told today by Bennie Godow sky, who wts
found by a searching party. lie was sdll
conscious when found, although hig body,
was turned entirely black.
Two weeks ago todowsky, employed
ip the salt mine. beciuu separated from
his companions, and before he could
reach the shaft of the mii. the electric
lights went out. WatJdcrig through the
various passages he stt ,ck an unused
shaft, aid, becoming fatigued. fell intu
a pool of salt brine.
Here he lay exhausted, eating nottin.g
but salt from the side of the mine ard
drinking nothing but the. brine at mte
feet. I" , ,lians deila:ed that lie blaci
nIeas of 1. a body was the r-sult of dri.k
ing and lying in the brine ar.d they gave
that as the cause for his being alive.
ONE-CENT INCREASE
IN BREAD IS UBGED
National Bakers Say Costs Have
Jumped 100 Per Cent.
(By the International News Nervice.)
Chicago. Aug. t.-An increare of i
ceit a loaf in the price of bread by the
bakers of the entire country is to be
urgel next week through a systematic
campaign inaugurated by the National
Association of Master Bakers, according
to a statement today by J. M1. Dell, sec
retary of the organization.
"Wlith the price of all material used
in thc making of bread from .5 to 1(0u
per cent higher thati they were a year
and a half ago, su-h action becomes ab
solutely necessary." said Mr. Bell
"I doubt if today there is a baker in
the rountry Is not losing money selling
bread at the present price of 5 cents
a loaf."
Mr. Bell said that the movement for
an advance in price will include every
baker in the country, whether or not
he is a member of the association.
MOTHER AND SON SCHOOLMATES.
Will Study Side by Side at Western
UnDiversity.
Pasadena, Cal. Aug. 26.-8ide by side.
Mrs. t', Pettier and her son, Charles Pett
Ier. 17, will pursue their studies at the
State University in Berkeley. They have
just left Pasadena to take up the work.
Mrs. Pettier, who is in middle life. Is a
scolar, and her son has inherited her
love for study. Each is co enthusiastic
ov'er the accommuletion of knowledge
that neither can bear to avail himseif os
herself of the opportunity without the
other having the same advantage.
MAN AND WIPE QUIT PRISON.
I'saoled, They Leave cells to Start
Life Anew.
Colunmbus. Ohio. Aug. 28.-Earl Brooks.
25, was received at the penitentiary nearly
three years ago for burglary committed
in Athens County.
His wife, Mattie Brooks. a pretty little
girl of 19. followed him a year later for
the same crime, committed in Muskingum
County.
Several days ago both left the prison
arn-in-arm, to begin life over again in
Wheeling, W. Va. The board of adminis
tration naolor them at fts lt et..
BRITISH WINNING
WESTERN GOALS'
Slowly Taking Thiepval and
Leipzig Redoubt.
(y the Istermattoi News service.) t
London. Aug. 26.-The two most pow
erfully fortified German positions north
of the Somme-Thiepval and the Leipzig
redoubt-are slowly being won by the
British.
Despite the utmost efforts of the Teu
tons to win back their lost groundoln these
two vital sectors, Gen. Haig's territoria
troops not only are repulsing all Ger
man attacits. but are steadily increasing
their gains.
They have won a further 400 yards tof
trenches along the Thiepval-Coureflotte
road and, despite the great concentration
of German troops -in the neighborhood,
have further pressed in both east and
southwest of Mouquet farm.
The Prussian guard. proudest corps of
the' Fatherland, has been sent to the
threatened front, but despite their most
desperate efforts, have been unable to
win hack any of the important terrain
which has been taken In the IBritish ad
sance, according to a report froua Gien.
Haig.
To the support of these wonderful light
Ing men. great iasses of German artil
lery have been brought up and a bom
bardment of alnost unprecedented vio-.
lence is being directed against the Prit
Ish ..-nt.
TEUTONIC DICTATOR
SCORES FOOD WASTE'
Says Persons Eating Too Much Are
Harining Nation.
(By the latersatimsal News %ervice.i
London, Aug. 26.-"Any one living
on the land who consumes even half
a liter of milk or a (juarter of a pound!,
more of butter, or even an egg more
than is abeolutely necessary, sans
against the Fatherland.
In an, appeal t" the German people
the German food minister. Tortilovitz
von Batocki, is Quoted by a Reuterl'
dispatch from Berlin as urging, in the
above words, the greatest possible
economy in the consumption of food.
lie appeals to the women and chil
dren of rural Germany to divide their
food with the women and children of
the towns and cities.
He says this 'ear's harvest has been
generally abundant and the cattle
have recovered from the effects of the
fodder scarcity of last winter. He
adds:
.Millions of soldiers are engaged In
the hardest of warfare. They mustl
be abundantly fed. Hundreds of thou
sands lie wounded ip. the hospitals and
need abundant good food."
TO STIR UP PORTUGUESE.
PatrIotie Meeting to iplain later
sentlon In War.
Itatalha, Portugal. Aug. 3 (via Paris.
Aug. :.-Tha tirst meeting was held
here tlav in a ampaign for the purpose
'f stirrira the interest and liatriotism of
the Portuguese peopale and explaining the
reasons for th, nation's intervention in
the mar.
Among the speakers were Premier
Alneida and ther members of the
cabinet. the Detimcratic orator. Alex
andre laraga, former minister of the
interior, and a number of deputies and
senators.
DREAM LEADS HIM TO JAIL.
Burglar Glie. Self t p lelowiag
Vision of Arrest.
Charleston. XV. Va., Aug. N-Declaring
that he had robbed the ;astoffice at Slab
Fork, rear I 'ohrn, X. Vna.. in 1914. but
now wanited to pay the tenalty. Charles
Kunico, 2. arrer dered himself to Fed
cral autho ities
lie declared that he decided to give
hiamself p atter dreaming that he ha
bcen artedt- I Ie said he walked more 1
than 1(4) mile s through the mountains to
teach Charleston.
BEGS TO BE STRETCHED.
Would-le I olunteer Seeks % sy .1o
Meet Height Requirement.
Wilmington. Del .. Aug. 26.-Despite the
fact that he begged the recruiting offi
cers in this city to stretch him so that
he could get into the army and join the
Delaware troops at Deming. N. "I., the)
were conelled to turn down iarry A.
Cunningham.
He declared that ie was ready and will
in.; ta tight :and that he could iandle any
of the recruiting force if they desired j
test his abillty.
DESTROYER REPORTED SINKING.
British Vessel Said to Have Been
Abandoned by Crew.
Berlin. Aug. 2%.-The Vossiche Zeltung I
reports fron Amsterdam that Dutch sail
ors stated that they sighted a British
datroy r in a sinking condition off the
east of Doggerbank.
It m as abandoned by its crew.
1ritish ships were not sighted near
this place, but a submarine whose nation
ality was not established was sighted.
CAN'T KICK; SLAPS WIPE.
Husband Blames Cramp in Legs and
Is lined.
Blaltimore. Aug. 2---A husband who said
he slapped his wife because a cramp in
one leg prevented his kicking her and
another a Ito said he always punished his
wIfe whean she failed to have supper
ready on time were before Justice
Gerechat, at the Eastern Police Station,
this morning oan charges -of beating their
respective spouses.
TO INTERN ALL.EGED PLOTlER.
Austrian Must Rlemnel In Canada
Unti After 1War.
Detroit. Mich.. Aug. 26-Peter Bjerlich,.
an Austrian. held by the pollee of Walker-'
ville. Ont., on suspicion that he was im
plicated ini a plot to blow up munItions
In the United States and eanada. will be
interned at Kilnkston. Ont., until the end
of the war. according to provincial of
flcers.
The authorities express the belief that~
it would be difficult to mnake out a con-I
snfracy casea amsnat &.
BANDfrS RAID BORDER;
DRIVE OFF CAMFLI
(my the Intersatilesal wNws ervise,
El Paso. Tex.. Aug. 2A.-Horses an
3attle werp driven across the Rio Grand
tonight Z a raid by Mexican bandit
ear Ruida=. in the Big Bend country
00 miles east of here. Meagre report
reaching army headquarters In El Pas
aid. ihit an unidentified body of Wiel
-an bandits had crossed the river nea
Presidio. Texas. and driven off stocl
rom American ranches. Detachments o
Lhe Sixth 'nited States cavalry and th,
Fioat Pennsylvania infantry brigade ar<
,earching for the marauders.
EXPLORERS' VESSEL
WRECKED IN ARCTIC
(By the Iternatiesal News Servise.
Seattle. Wash., Aug. 26.-The schoone
Great Bea, on which John Borden. mil
lonaire Chicago sportsman and explorer
and Capt. Luls Lane, of Seattle. se
out a few weeks aizo on an Arcti,
expedition. was sunk in Bering Sea oi
August 10. according to wireless message
received here today. All on board were
maved.
The members of the party were landei
mn St. Mathews Island. August 10. Thei
were found by the United States Coas
:uard cutter McCullough. which start.
from here ..everal days ago to searcl
ror the Great Bear.
SILVER PREPAREDNESS
COINS DUE OCTOBER 1
The new silver preparedness coins
which were to have appeared in circula
ion on July 1 last, again have heen helc
,a k by mechanical difficulties in then
prcparation, the Treasury Departmen
innounced yesterday.
Work in going forward on them at th4
nints. however, and the Treasurv no.
stina,,tes that the first new coins wil
ipear about October I next.
KYSTERY ENSHROUDS
MURDER OF WOMAh
(By the Imternstiemal iews service.
New York, Ag 26.-With her hand;
tied securely behind her hark with I
riothes line, Mrs. Caroline Tiarks wa
found dead today In her home at ,L Wies
I3tth street.
Everv room in the house had hee
ra.nsacked and the disarrangement of th<
woman's clothing showed that her perso
had been searched.
There were two puzzling features. On
was that there were no marks of violenc.
n rs. Tiarks' body, indicating that sh,
may have died from heart failure super
nduced by fright. The other was tha
there was no trace as to how the burgla
4ot into the apartment.
BRITISH SEIZE GRAIN;
FEAR LIQUOR FOR FOI
Dr. Henry Van Dyke, United Stat
Minister to Holland. cabled the Stat.
Department yesterday that Great Britaii
s seizing cargoes of grain billed JA
Holland on the ground that the grair
night be distilled Into spirite for th
use of the enemy.
The Dutch government has ordere
all burgoinasters to take possession o
te new -rop in llland for an equitahl
listribution. The new British ruling Wil
make it difficult for the Dutch to ge
enough grain for their own consumption
BLIND SIXTY-TWO YEARS
WOMAN RECEIVES SIGHI
plecia o TI h wa sito Hbi.
San Francisco. Aug. V.-Dawn peepe<
In the window of St. Francis lIfospita
and found a woman waiting. A biry
Lhirped on the window sill.
"So this is day." mused the womar
And that i a bird. And those ar
lowers. It is a:1 just as I dreamed I
would he."
'Yes." repeated the nurse, "this is da
and that is a bird and those are flowers.
The woman. Mrs. lary O'Farrell. sas
daylight for the first time. She ha.
been blind for sixtltuo years. L4
Aaron Gicren had pcrformed the opera
lion that brought light out of darkness
AFRAID MINERAL DUST
MAY BE SOLD AS FLOUF
Western millers have ' launched
:ounter attack to Iepresentative Rai
ney's proposal to remove the old wa
tax on mixed flour by laying before th
Federal Trade Commission scientifi
]ata designed to prose that marble diis
:r other mineral sibstances may b
used in such manner as to defy deter
ion in the making of bread. if Federe
approval is given to the suggested lam
Chairman Hurley sted yesterday tha
Ra 'ey's croposal still was under con
sideration. and that, owing to prospc
Live early adjournment of Congress. n
immediate action was to he expected.
BATHING ,GIRLS PAINT
LEGS TO ESCAPE LA
Sre-ial to The Wingto Hrt
Atlantic City, N. J., Aug. 26.-Bathin
.irls hive appeared here in new styl
leg uarniture. consisting of black rain1
applied either laterally or lonagitudinall
according to the taste of the wearer
or their desire to achieve the appearanc
of slimness or plumpness.
The new style wasn't adopted fror
;ny belief that the lily should he gide<
or the rose perfumed. explained th
girls. Most of them say they are per
fectly satisfied with the contour of thei
egs, but the authorities just instead tha
atockings must be worn on the beact
So, there'
SON BITES AND BEATS
75-YEAR-OLD MOTHEI
Bpecial to The Wasiaton lierald.
New York. Aug. 26.-Mrs. Sadie Ryei
3, of 148 Second stre.et. Passaic. N. J
pressed a charge of asseault against he
son. Leon. a shop keeper, in the Passai
City Court.
Brulas.s lacerations and teeth marks I
a dozen places on her body attested mute
ly to the terible treatment receIved b
the aged woman. Her withered rigt
arm was scarred and torn. Imprin1
showed in the flesh covering her rib
With quavering voice she toid how sih
had been choked.
"He dragged me in a room and trie
to kill me." said the woman.
Ge-man Aem'~drnse 3,'b*d.
..n'don. .ig :.6-The great Georma
serodrome 't Natrur, Belgium,. bas bee
hombarded by British asepantes, the as
p~a.=uit e..mo.eSn amei
WILSON TO URGE
EIGHT-HOUR LAW
AS LAST RESORT
Will Ask Congress to Force
Through Legislation to
Avoid Rail Strike.
President Wilson. as a last desperat*
realrt to prevent the threatened ranilway
strike. has Inaugurated plans to force
through Congress Immediately a law re.
quiring the obser ancwe of the basic eight
hour day.
The effect was to suspend temporarily
the White House conferences with the
railway executives. It was announced
there would not be another such meet
Ing until 10 o'clock tomorrow.
In no other way, it was said. could
the leaders of the railway trainmen be
restrained from calling an immediate
strike. When they learned the execu
tiea were holding nut for arbitration.
steps were at on,-e takern to caff the
n-n oilt.
It as announed1 during the afternoon
I thit strike owders. prepared in New York.
would be issued it the l-tiou Theater this
m torr._g. The new mov leaves the
It ou still n the halance
This rush of eventa followed An unez
tected Irsonal %t it by President Wil
ton to the Capitol. The .,ne ' tur'
tiven to the .reeedt ge *hr Iexe
tieP into a state of pan
They nad to Intimation or what was
happ1iening. and .ee in soinn at the
time putting the finhtt ",t'uhes i
u hat they wcre piieaard to term -their
im'atutrn" A hurried adjour- t oh nt i
taken and at oetock --tate ilolden.
ihairman of the subcommitie of ine
execu tive. Iissued thhs stat ...n .
"The railway prerideri- 1alrmg en
cluded their dis-useion. the committte
COmN r N or r.,E -rwn
PARALYSIS IN CAPITAL
TAKES FOURTH VICTIM
Another Death and One More Case
Reported.
mS:ultaneous ith the euhmi-on t
the District Commissioners , uiles and
regulations drafted by the heath off-erm
r.lative to the infantIe parsu s eP.
rem.r. came the report yeaterda afte -
noon of the fourth death sinc the new
outbreak and also that of a new case.
The victim was Anna B. 'arpenter. 161
thland Terrae, and the new patlent I%
Thomas Haly. Jr.. =0; Flagler tlace
northwest.
Dr. W. C. Fowler sited the If.,
child. and stated t0-n the case as
without doubt of Mar'land] wtas. at P
h-as been ot;t ther !-r a -ood if Ii -
weeks. and arrised I th- n eii- It
a week ago in a sh-k ,ctorr
Hlth Ofibe-r WVoode ard statei.'
regardi - c tie recent d ..t . . .
ases. the cndition it general a
ar n:nT g nite -'
The l:rat %ts regilat ione nere pla-t
berr the t', m i-isoner. tierdat -,ith
he hecart, reom edation of the P ,er
doctors. but jnt w' -i ,-nt i-ui!
taken ie not kno It The ;roi-;. .e..
n1.i g.ten -0o . and wA l: I'l . i-, o> hr-I
until the Conmrle -toners ha- *.e. d of
th, It
WEDS TO EVADE LAW.
Prisoner Prefers Marriage to - ite
%lacery ktarge.
A texa: dria. La . Aug. 26 -Israel J
Rurak. who was arrested hire .harged
with imrersonatirg a lnited st-, rural
'oute other. was examined e-fore I-nited
States Commissioner Gi"t aind laced
under an appearance bond -f
A charte of white slaver was about 1o
he I-reifre d againat Rona whet he e I.'
Ienly I\rof essed a desire to manrr the
woia w it h whom he carne here a.nd
Iwhom he .epresented to be his wife The
license was procur-i. .6d the marrat
took place.
i - ______ _ - _ ___
PAYS $32.000 LOVE MA.
Wife of Mryltand Dean Agrees to
settlement 1um..
tIaitlnore. Aug 26-The Sf (b0 suit
itrought by Mrs Mary W Srho against
Mrs. Helene HIemineter. v ife of the dean
of Maryland ~rivers II. fr the alleged
alienation of the affe-iomns of Mrs. Soho's
husband. Prof Arts(, . Shn. teacher
of modern languaces at tie City College.
I has been settled, the amount agreed upon
being S12.-ce.
With the pacerg of the ordr wiiii ab>
pas the alIge-I iettei. writen by. the
defender I to Soho Mri. ttmmeter will
hae these letteis rtuned to i:
BARS AXER CAN GLASSWARE.
Britain Places Umtaerg on Prod
ets from I aited States.
Pittsburgh. Aug. :6 -Gas nanufac
turers in the Pittshurgh flistt hav.
been notified by% their London agents that
an order in cotunrl had been issued pac
ing an embargo upon American table
glassware
-.Shipments leavIng the t'nited State.
before August It the cables said, would
he accepted.
SAYS BOY KILLEDr MOTHEE.
Twelwe-Year-Old Ysuaguaer amee
ed on Murder (haese.
New Orleans. La.. Aug 26-Waiuie Zimi
nmermnan. 12 years old. stangsa indicted by
the grand Jury, charged with first de
.gree murder here last July.
.Court officials say the bot Is the young
esi person tiv-r Indicted for murder ir:
Louisiana. The district attorney says
that if he is convicted he might be men
tenced to the penitentilary or hanged.
DIVORCED FOR LACK OF CENT.
Wife Smym Husband Ref. .w .nsev
eu for Chureh Plate.
Rteading. Pa.. Aug. a-In the divoree
proceedings of Beasie M. Greenwood
against Harry t.. Greenwood, the wife in
a letter to her husband states:
"T tell you it is worriment as much as
ii anything else that makes soe sick We
cudnot go to asnday sc-hool or church
.j because we did nt have montey leg- the
jnnn~fnl_
