THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow; little
change in temperature; light winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 83; lowest, 68.
Detailed weather, malt and marine reports on page 9.
IT SHINES FOP ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 862.
100 PAGES.
PRICE- FIVE CENTS.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, AUGUST 27, 1916. Copyright, lilt, by the Bun Printing and PubUtMng AtsoclaUon.
ROMANIA TAKES
WARLIKE STEP;
KAISERSNDBBED
Army Credit Is Tripled and
Munitions, Director Is
Chosen.
LOST IN MINE 14
DAYS; FOUND DYING
Salt Worker Scorched in Vain
for Outlet, Then Col
lapsed. v
WILL REFUSE TO SEE
ENVOY FROM BERLIN
King Ferdinand Informs
Emperor Duke Albrecht's
Mission Would Fail.
BULGARS CONTINUE
DRIVE INTO GREECE
Now Occupy Territory De
mnmled by Them in
Balkan "Wars.
Pari, Aus. 26. numanla Is making
Important preparation for war as
news comes of more widespread Bulgar
agressions In Greece. The extraordi
nary credit for the Rumanian army
Lis been tripled from MO.000,000 to
$i:o,000.000 by decree of the Council
cf Ministers.
The post of director of munitions
needed only In time of war, has been
created and Gen. Paraaklvescu has
teen appointed to till It. Gen. Fopo'
Vita, Inspector-General of tho ltu-
manlan cavalry, has been appointed to
command the First Army Corps, to
ruoceed Gen. Averescu, former Minis
ter of War.
King Ferdinand of Itumanla Is re'
ported In a wireless despatch from
Hern to havo snubbed tho Kaiser
when the Emperor wrote that he was
sending Duke Albrecht of Mecklen
burg to Bucharest on a special mis
sion about Rumania's position In the
war. The Kaiser's message, King
Ferdinand Is said to havo written, had
better be sent through Hie regular
diplomatic channels, as he would be
oulljred to refer the Duko Albrecht to
his Ministers.
IlociiESTtn, N. T., Aua. 29. Two
weeks ago Benny Nlcgowsky, a laborer
in the Hetsof salt mine In Livingston
county, was reported missing after the
nightly checkout Ills companions be
lieved he had quit his job and so re
ported to the police.
William A. Wheeler, District Attorney,
was not satisfied, however, and Insisted
yesterday on a search being made of the
mines. Nlcgowsky was round in a
worked out section of the salt caverns
and brought to the surface.
lie was emaciated, almost a skeleton,
His face and body were black. After he
had been fed and put In a hospital he
explained that he had lost himself, in
the mate of mining channels. He
searched for tea days looking for tho
opening to the surface.
Three days ago ho gave up through
exhaustion and was dying slowly when
his resouera found him. Hope still Is
ncltl out for his recovery.
BRITISH CLOSING
RING ON THIEPYAL
Storm Trenches Southeast of
Town; Now at Tolnt of
German Salient.
PARTY FAITH LOST.
UNDERWOOD SAYS
Senator Charges Democrats
Havo Abandoned Ancient
Principles.
COPYING REPUBLICANS
O'Gorman Joins in Supporting
Amendment for Equitable
Income Tax.
RAILROAD HEADS DECIDE TO STAND GROUND;
"ARBITRATE" IS EDICT TO 400,000 TRAINMEN;
ALL OF WILSON'S PEACE PROPOSALS REJECTED
INCOME TAX LAV
EXEMPTIONS STAND
Wasiiinoton, Aug. 26. Senator Un
derwood, Alabama, former leader of the
Democrats In the House and the author
of the present tariff law, accused the
Democratic party to-day with having
discarded Its ancient faith and taken up
the Republican principles of protection.
The statement caused n sensation among
the Democrats of Congress, who realized
that, coming from the most eminent
Democratic tariff expert, It would be used
against the Administration In the cam
paign..
"When I have stood all my life against
protection," said Mr. Underwood, "and
for a tariff for revenue only, I do not
Intend tamely to submit to swallow such
Republican doctrine as this at the dic
tation of a few men hero whom I re
gard as desecrators of Democratic prin
ciples." Senator Underwood was denouncing
the dyestuffs schedule In the revenue bill.
Underwood's Attempt to Low
tr Thorn Fails by a Vote
of ai to 19.
MAYO "SINKS" D. S.
FLEET; LANDS ARMY
Destroys Defenders, Secures
Base at Far Hockaway as
Great War Game Ends.
n cigar a Advance In Greece.
Bulgarian troops have reached the
Greek .Kgean coast and have occupied
Greek territory along tho coast for up
ward of fifty miles. In these opera
tlwu, the oltlclal statement telegraphed
from Sofia frays, they dispersed British
cavalry patrols and occupied several
ureek village?.
The British retreated toward Orfano,
on the .Kgeau a little east of the estuary
of tho Srtuma and fifty miles north
Mtt of the allied camp at Salonlca.
r.vltlcntly the Bulgars havo seised al
mut all of northeastern flreeco. It Is
not Known whether they havo occupied
Drama and Kavala, east of Orfano.
In this advance the llulgars uttucked
, rd raptured another Greek fort, kill
Ins the commander and tho entire gar
rivn, according to a Salonlca despatch
t" thi Multn. Tho fort was thut of
Manila, Mini Its garrison, com
manded by an ofllccr named Changas,
Iftermlned to Unlit to tho last to pre
vent the Unlearn taking It. Kvery Greek
nt.,i...- .... ., ...i.
" iikiiiiiik, me tiespuicn Bajp,
Such acta hh theso by tho Invading
llulgars, particularly as compared with
the conduct nf tho allied troops at
Monica, have btlrred tho unger ofthc
liierk rc'iplu to fever heat. There Is u
strong popular demmd for war upon
RtiU.irl.i, which Is voiced In many mass
Weetlngj us well as by thoso who are
tailing uluntecrs to tight tho llulgars.
Greeks t'hrrr Vcnlaclna.
A large popular meeting wa held In
Salonlca is,t night to protest against
single Hiilj-.ulan soldier being per
mitted in stand upon Greek boll. Tho
Creels mado a great demonstration for
ex-1'remler Vcnlzclos. Tho crowd then
manned through tho streets singing tho
'reek national anthem and cheering for
t"o and tho Allies.
Tho march ended nt the hoaquarters
Jf On. Sarrall, commander of tho al
lied troops n the Balkan. There (Jen.
oarrall wan cheered aim tho biff crowd
pressed before his headquarters singing
'ho Marseillaise. A formal protcnt
ifMnn llulgarlan occupation of Greolt
territory was drawn up and left with
me rrerett of I'ollce.
A bigger mcetlnr Is to bo held to
tnOrrow In Athens, nt,, iim n nrnl.sl Tt
Jai been called by tho Liberal party,
in.. ,,any of Venlzclos.
IXspntclics from Athens kiv that
King Constantino In much concerned
"rout thlH p in, fearing thut tho meet
rg may end In h demonstration ngalnst
iiu course. Counter demonstrations of
ne tiermanopiilla element may bo or
gs tilled.
Allies I'lnn New Demands
nopatclifs from Athens quoto the
"Urn in saying that the allied Towers
re dUhi,tiiie,l with King Constnntlno's
tttltlii!,, ife.,iih nf tin. tiltimtlnn ern.iteit
I'V Kiilgitrl.i. The nllled foreign offices
ir exchanging views with regard to tho
HiuiiM to lio taken toward Greece and
re likely to ask more than dcmobllun
tlon of tht- armv.
'ili'j Ilalkan lighting still occupies a
r'"ni(in erondary to the political possl
ino chances of (irccco ami ku
London, Aug. 26. British troops
struck tho Germans again near Thlepval
last night nnd stormed 400 yards morer
of their trenches, which they held against
every attempt to retake them. So con
cerned aro tho Germans at continued
Ilrltlsh successes In this region that they
attacked threo other points In the Brlt
Ish and two In the French lines to-day
In an effort to slow up the Somme at
tack. The British attack last night was de
livered southeast of the village of Thlep
val, cast and west of the Mouquet farm.
On both sides of the farm the Ilrltlsh
stormed German trenches nlong the road
that runs almost straight east from
Thlepval to Courcelette. Most f the
trenches won were west of the farm, on
the side toward Thlepval.
Counter Attack. Soon.
As soon ns the Worcestershire and
Wiltshire regiments, which made the
successful charge, had disposed of the
last Germans, they hastened to Intrench
themselves and place machlno guns In
ffnrwasrty wunlttw. expecting a counter
attack. It came without delay, and the
attacking troops were of the first di
vision of the Prussian Guard, commanded
by Prince Eitel Frledrlch, the Kaiser's
second eon.
Just as tho guards were thrown back
yesterday In the same region, the
Worcestershire nnd Wiltshire men hurled
them back again. The Prussians came
forward In strong force. In a closer for
mation than has been used In trench
fighting In recent months, and their
losses wcro great.
The Ilrltlsh positions about Thlepval
now make German occupation very dif
ficult. West and cast of the town the
Ilrltlsh have pushed forward arms of
their line, threatening to bring the arms
together about the town.
Washington. Aug. 26. Senator Un
derwood made a motion In tho Senate
to-day to amend the war revenue bill to
lower tho exemptions under the Income
tax law from $4,000 to JJ.000 for married
men and from IS.000 to $2,000 for un
married men.
Tho amendment was lost by a vote of
31 to 19. Tho Finance Committee's Dem
ocratic members, who control that com
mittee, voted at one time by a" majority
of one to lower tho exemptions, but
later reversed their action.
The- Senators who voted for Mr. Un
derwood's amendment were: Democrats:
Bankhead, Hardwlck, Lone. O Gorman
and Underwood. Republicans: Brady,
Colt, Cummins, Dillingham, Galllngcr,
Kenyon, McCumber. Nelson. Oliver, Pen
rose. Kmoot, Sterling, Wadsworth and
Weeks.
Thoso who voted against the Under
wood 'amendment were: Democrats
Germans Twice Driven Of
In the hope of distracting tho atten-'
Hon of tho British from the Somme
front, where Halg's troops have been
gaining steadily lately, the Germans at
tacked the British trenches south of the
Bethune-La Bassee road, thirty miles
to tho north. They attacked twice, but
eacli time tlm British rifle fire drove
them back. Near the Hohenzollern re
doubt they hurled large quantities of
hand grenades Into tho British lines.
The Germans made artillery attacks
upon RocllncTJUrt, north of Arras, and
cast of Kllllbekc, near Ypres.
Tho Uermans made similar attacks
galnt the French trenches In the
hainpagnn region. They dashed up to
tho trenches at Tahure, almost at tho
point of tho salient the French, forced
Into tho German lines by their Cham
pagne offensive In September. They re
mained In tho trench only a short time
cforc tho French drove them out again.
On the Verdun front, south of tho
Meuse, the Germans again attacked the
French lino between Fleury and Thlau-
mont, but mado no progress.
About Maurepas tho Germans made
only desultory attempts to get back
any of tho trenches the French took
from them recently. Iast night at about
0 o clock parties of Germans were dls
overed crawling under cover of dark
ness up to tho French newly won posi
tion on Hill 121. Tho French machine
guns and rifles wero turned on them,
and" supporting artillery signalled to
help, nml the uermans ran DacK to
their trenches.
I.
mania Joining tho Allies. Sofia reports
luicossts on both flanks. London speaks
(j' artlllnv Hi,! nlimit Lake Doiran.
'to tho real effort of tho Allies will
Be made,
The I :ul(-ar announce that on their
tulit wu.g.ihe western end of tho battle
i.r.o ,Uu,t!i of tliH (Ireek border, they have
"j'l more Mirresses over tho Serbs.
Ntar Moglenltsa Mountain, they as
''it, Ihcj it-pulsed, with "Immense
IWH'S, almost Incessant Serbian nt
taeks fiom the night of Augflst 21 to the
r..2),t (.f August Zi. "Tho Serbs made
-'mccii consecutive attacks," llio llul
wr.i say, and each was beaten back
t'oiifliiiicri on ttecoml rage.
O'Gorman Favor Chance.
The trouble started when Senator Un
derwood offered nn amendment to lower
the exemptions of Individual Incomes.
Senator O'Gorman had made a speech
advocating Mr. Underwood's amendment,
In which he said the Income tax feature
of the pending bill was so "hedged about
with restrictions" that It worked an In
justice, and that the result had been
that one-half of 1 per cent, of the rple
nay the tax and that New York paid
more Income tax than all of the South
ern States and the States west of the
Mississippi River combined.
"You are teaching a large element of
the people that they ure entitled to re
ceive the benefits of government with
out bearing any of Its burdens," said
Senator O uorman.
Just as the ote was about to ho taken
on Senator Underwood s amendment Sen
ator Stone, who was described by Sena
tor Vardaman of Mississippi a few days
ago as "the self-constituted censor of the
Democratic side, strode Into the chamber
and Insisted on being heard. He delivered
a lecture on party regularity, charging
Senator Underwood was destroying
"party solidarity" and disregarding the
obligations of the -caucus.
Senator Stone concluded with the
statement that he entered his "solemn
protest."
When Senator Underwood rose for re
ply he was visibly stirred. He demanced
t know what authority Stone had to pro
test, to whom he protested und to what
purpose.
Underwood Charitra Dictation.
"Has the Senate degenerated'to n point
where Individual Senators must take or
ders from Senators on committees, who
occupy the leading places on these com
mlttees simply beeauso their constituents
have kept them here for years? In
quired Senator Underwood. "If that be
so why proceed further with this bill?
Simply let the committee announce tlio
results of tho deliberations of those
who assume to dictate tlio votes of other
Senators and then we might nil go
home.
At this point Senator Simmons pro
tested that tho committee has not acted
outside of tho powers conferred on It by
the caucus.
"If tile Democratic members of tho
Flnunco Committee had Mt out to ropy n
Itcpubllcan schedule nil dyes It could not
have done a better Job than when It pro
duced tbja rates In this bill," said Mr. Un
derwood. Senator Simmons tried to read Senator
Underwood u lesson In party regularity
and caucus rules and suggested that
Senator Undernood did not protest In the
caucus or raise his voice. Senator Un
derwood sharply resented It and finally
declared :
The Senator's statement Is Inaccurate.
There Is not a single statement he makes
that is babed upon fact."
Wasiiinoton, Aug. 26. Tho greatest
war game ever undertaken by tho Amer
ican navy ended to-day with a victory
for Admiral Mayo's "red" fleet, which
theoretically wiped out the defending
"blue" fleet nnd lauded an Invading nrmy
at Far Rockaway, K I threatening the
rapture of New York.
Rear Admiral Knight, acting as um
pire, announced tho result In his report
to tho Navy Department:
Munucuvrc completed. Red and bluo
bodies engaged 9:30 to 10:30 this
morning ten miles southeast of Am
brose Llghtshjp. Blue decisively de
feated, red gaining command of tho
sea. Red effects landing at Far Rock
away and secures base.
"Sunk" Off Scotland Mailt.
Tho final report closely followed one
announcing that Rear Admiral Helm's
Rrvnn. Chamberlain. Chilton. Culberson.
Fletcher, Hughes, Husting, Kern, Lea, 1 "blue" defending fleet. Including twelve,
Lee (Maryland), Martlne, Myers, Pitt-1 battleships, virtually had been annllil.
man. Pomcrenc. Ransdett. Heed, Robin- ,ate(, , a ,,rdm.ltI(. nsht o(r .Sco,iaIia
son, Saulsbury, Shafroth, Shoppard. Sim- . ... , , , ......
mons. Smith (Arizona). Smith (Georgia), I-'Rhtshlp at the entrance to New lork ,
Smith (South Carolina), Stone, Taggart, harbor. With the exception of a" few
Thompson, Vardaman und Williams. Hcht craft the entire "blue'' fleet was
Republicans: Curtis and Sherman. "sunk." The full extent of tho "rerl" I
Senator Wadsworth of New York losses was not known to-ulght, althoush
sought to have the Income tax provision early reports showed that they Included
amended to exempt the Incomes of the superdreadnoughts Nevada and
widowers with dependentchlldrcn.argulng Texas and two c.eMroyers. !
that they wero as worthy of consldera-, With Admiral Helm's fleet out of the
Hon as married men, many of whom had way only a thin ;lnc of submarines re
l t-iHgaaaBinja'iHtA)KViN
- ys t s
President Visits Capitol and Consults
Senate Leaders in Final Hope
of Averting Nationwide
Traffic Strike '
CRISIS AT 10 A. M. TO-MORROW
Members of Brotherhoods' "640" Leaving Wash
ington Question of Peace or Big Tieup
Now Hangs by. Slender Thread
WASHINGTON, Augr. 2G. Railroad presidents of the
United States decided to-night to stand lirm against the
demands of President Wilson and the 400,000 union em
ployees whose eight hour cause he espouses. Through their
committee of eight, which drew up counter proposals, they
maintain their original contention the arbitration of dif
ferences without the granting of a single concession.
The railroad executives determined on this course
despite the President's urging for a trial of an eight hour day.
They fixed their attitude with the full realization that more
drastic means than mere persuasion may be employed against
them by the President.
Four Brotherhoods Pledged to Strike.
fewer dependents to care for. The
amendment was defeated, 29 to 17.
The Senato completed the consldera'
tlon of the Income tax feature to-day.
$1,500 FOUND IN STOVE.
Woman Accused of Taklna- Money
la Locked Up.
Mrs. Annlo Wadler, 36, of 228 Madi
son street, was arrested last night at
her home by Detectives master and
Kelly, and locked up on a charge c:
grand larceny. She Is accused by Mm.
Icachael Llnderman, 6S0 Fifth street, of
stealing II, BOO on August 10.
According to ttm detect rve, Mrs. Wad-
et and wimnmhlnL left "to Washington in his last hour efforts . conference among themselves ended create a fund to ,. fr back 'wanes If
tho lamllng of lirlm his to avert a railroad strike. at 7 o'clock to-niKht the announce- s,'s T!owd i,y tlu ilrl)r.
rivaiTvigilahtes
malned to protect the coast. Then these
too wero quickly disposed nf by
iteir fleet.
Interrupt
transports Admlial Mavo waj declared I
victor In tho game, nnd the ships. Bed
ami Blue 'alike, started for Ncwpott
after four days of arduous duty at sea.
. Tho story of the game ns pieced to
; gethcr from radio report to the Nuvy
Department indicated that the tactics
of Admiral Mayo completely puzzled Ad
miral Helm and forced him to accept
battlo In a position from which there
was no hope of cscupe. Tho umpire
declared the "Blue"' lloet destroyed hours
heforo tha time limit of the notion expired.
Their conduct was marked out in
complete knowledge that the four
railroad brotherhoods have promised
' ulibn imlncu t li n nl(-ll- hnllr flltV
Three men with whom President,. ' . v . . n nn,
yesterday nt'"' " . " V
Wilson conferred
settlement In no other wav It will
suruest the creation of a n.i'iimlsi.loii to
arbitrate thN w.ikc iiucMInn or delega
tion of por to tho lnterst.it.! Com
merce Commission to arbitrate. It would
i.ic iiiu iiriiitratloti retroactive, and
lllu load would lileiln,, II.i.imv1, .
1 mcr.t was maue that r.o yielding
would be made to the eight hour de-
Mil.norle.l ! Three Klcmrnta.
imand or to any programme that "'"g" are cited by tin. cxecu-
ui' niiw position. The first
i.. r ..... , i lory or the "Iinnslon,"
went out and asked Mrs. Wadler to clean When the game began Admiral Helm's
tho kitchen. While polishing the unused feet was nscniblod nt Narragansett,
range she lifted a lid and discovered a whllo-Admltal May with his fleet nnd
pair of-woman's stockings, each stuffed transports was 100 mile, off Cape llat-
with greenbacks. terns. At G A. M. on August 22 Admiral
GUARD A HOSPITAL
Woodmerc Folk Want Only
Local Cases in Newly Fin
ished lluililin-
tlv
,hilt iiuny of the big shippers of the
x'umiy nave declared themselves op
posed to nn abandonment of arbitration
and have Insisted that an eight hour day
must not bo granted.
A second Is a conviction that to give
In to the men under present conditions
would undermln rtlsefnllno nn tin. .it
railroad strike, which la to clofo to- to a lerlows extent, arid would Icavo far
night as to seem almost inevitable. . ,0?r')!'!;,(1,;r J1','-'-
, , , . 1 "' third is that no matter what ns-
l'orcwarned that tho reply of tho surances are given they feel they can
executives would bn unfavorablo nnd nor expect a rate Increase,
that they are as llr.n In their demand ' JZ roaMl "'i!!,:
, docs not make arbitration the
primary step.
; They will tell this to President Wll-
1 son ut 10 o'clock Monday. As n last
j hono the President to-day turned to
Congress to aid him In averting the
nt...., .. ..1, A.I ..1,-lt-
ante Ian' nlk'ht surrounded tho new for arbitration im tho representatives the way tiny uere attacked when tlio
Kho ran uerns fh treel tillh lh Helm received word of Ills enemy's loca- cnlitnelims disease hosnltlll that has been of tlm four lirotherhiuiilw nro In their ". 1 r u'm' 'I,M' wa" u" ""d that they
money and borrowed from a neighbor the tlon. and his seventeen scouts swept out provided at Woodtnere. L. I., with fumN f . ... . . . '''j. "" ,''l"v 'ar, ' , ""3 lb. Position
kov tn l.r tm.hronm. her 1,1,1 to sea In a long circling line. An hour donated bv wealthy r.sldents. Une of 'Icm' f,,r ,lu' elcht hour da. tin. which they feel they have pained with
Key 10 ner nam room, wnere sue mil " mik ,,,iv. ,e.... uooaievi bimhhj i, j ni.-ni.. win- ... . , - ,,., ' :
the money, the detectives say she told ter the "Blue" battleships also were at tho hands was on hand to prevent tho President went to tho Capitol to-da to the public by risking another attempt
them. Later sho decided that so much fca followli.g the scouts. I admittance to the hotpital of children ascertain If any way of breaking tho. x,.,,,.,,!,,. i.n. ,
money would not be safe there, so slio The cruiser Baltimore sighted five bat-1 suffering from Infantile paralysis The deadlock lay In that direction. r """"u
three other other was present because there had neen
nt t! P. M. rumors that members of the. opposition Wilson .Miij- Aililret Congress.
miles off tho might seek to burn it. ' T,. .,esldei,t laid before S.-ifatm
SHACKLET0N OFF ON RESCUE.
Leave Chile on Third Attempt to
Mare Comrades.
ron Mjvcntvtlvo miles off tho New Jersey
Bl'KKos Atiikb, Aug. 2H. Lieut., Sir i ,'"'ls'' lUdyltig on her speed to escape
Krnest II. Shnckleton. Antarctic explorer, . f1,n eonvoying wnrshlpM the llenham fol-
left Punta Arenas, Chile, to-day, on
board tho- slilp Yelclio, to iimke a third
attejnpl to rescue tho members nf his cx
edition marooned on Klcphant Island.
ONE SHAFT FOR SING SING DEAD.
Marble Monument to Be Krected In
tbc Cemetery.
OssiNINO, Aug. 20, The saddest
graveyard In tho State where 1,000 men
and one woman have been curried from
Sing Sing prlron and buried Is to have
a monument at last.
Marble not needed for the new woman s
prison has been given for the shaft, nnd
a convict who Is a hkllled cutter has
volunteered to do the work. The Inscrlp
tlon will bu a limitation from Gray's
Klugy :
Perhaps in this neglected spot is laid
some heart once pregnant with celes
tial lire.
Men are voluntnrlly working at grad
ing and beautifying the graveyard. So
far they havo not found n single vase or
urn In tho cemetery.
General Protest Starts.
Thero was considerable excitement In
the Senate at this point and many
Democratic Senators wero speaking
out in protest against the quar
rel. Senator Underwood dcclnrcd that
ho would not have taken tho floor but for
the Senator from Missouri undertaking
to lecture hill.
"Nobody can do thnt, declared Mr.
Underwood firmly. "I was not In the
caucus. I left and refused to return, and
I will tell tho Senator from North Caro
lina why I did not return.
While tho senate was waiting in near
the disclosure of ic caucus secret Senator
Underwood suddenly reconsidered, say
ing:
"No, I will not. It Is a personal mat
ter between tho Senator from South Car
ollnn und me."
Mr. Underwood directed nttentlon to
the fact that the rule of the Democratic
caucus Is that It requites two-thirds
voto not simply of thoso present, but of
the entire membership to bind, and then
ho demanded of Senator Simmons why
he had not tried to obtain tho two
thirds vote.
"Why didn't you try," demanded Mr.
Underwood, addressing Senator Sim
mons. "You would undoubtedly havo
tried to get tho two-thlrds If you had
been nblo to put It over."
As Mr. Underwood proceeded ho de
nounced the dyestuffs schedule ns "a
stench In tho mouth of those who be-
Conlltltiwt on fourth Pagt,
went back across tho street and bor- tlcshlps two cruisers and three other other was present because thero had been
rowed tho key again, but tho money , units or ttm "ltcu neet
was cone, she said. Tlm iletectlee.i uiv August 23. They wero 500
she admitted tho theft, but denied that , coasi. sieaming wen. n was ii .. ai. jne Hospital is nt Adams avenue aim Kmi a1( -N-Uwlaiitls the statement of the
sno got any or mo money. t o.ui ""- .cornea nonioaro. n . ine.ioi jniiwav head that Congress must guar-
was MKiiieu. mis iiinn n was a name- care lor all cases oi ponoiuj enus in .imi f,n,, source ,,f ,iled leveuue If
ship which was picked up 120 miles off Nassau county. Tho town health board. ,,v !ir,, , mect tll0 dennmls of their
New York. however, at a recent special meeting employees
At 5 :20 P. M.. Aug. 23, tho destroyer sided with the opposition to the extent ji,uV Vlil.x should be accomplished
Benham. later reported destroyed 'in of limiting the patients to siiffererH In preident Wilson .n.l ,i mueest im.
action, sighted tire red transport s'iud- . tho small school district in which the mediately nfteriviiril Senator lirir.tt, ill.
buildluc actually stands. Not satlslled ,.,Hi)v: propn,il to havo Cnugics re-
wlth this, tho opponents of tin- Instltu- , ( ord Itself In favor of a late Inciean1.
tlon commenced their vigil yesterday to m langeinenls were made to.dav
prevent any children being taken to tho for tho President to address Cnngnss
building. on the subject, but It was consldcrxl
The completion of the structure was likely tb.it be liiluht do so diirlna tho
rushed and It was to have been opened coming week If the situation continued
yesterday. l;arly yesterday l.ai lesl
dents gathered to jeer tho workmen
who were hurrying the striictuio to com
pletion. Dr. Howard Philips, health of-
reported that thrco enemy battleships fleer, not to 1m otitdono In the posting
and tho transports had headed In of guards about the place, put one thero
i-lturo to make a landing. Admiral Helm himself to seu that no child tiom any
drove his battle fleet forward to intercept place outside of Woodmcr was ad-
tho "enemy." Ho sighted the "red" ships milled as a patient. John Howes llur- nth-miiy Monday after Presblent Wllsoi
niiuin nun in. ii iiwiK. Jim in ma-; mil, 1 1 1 ) ic 1 1 .i 1 supporicr ii me iioxpuai, ii;iH heard It from the executives,
pons xnr sicuiuiuK in uinaro mu i.o:ik , said the liealtll olllcer s ruling would uo
Island coast with a destroyer screen I disregarded.
thrown out to southward. Kraiil.llu 11. Lord. Jr.. one of tho
During tho nlglit, however, the "Bed" wealthv residents who contributed to
battlo fleet also had come up. Vmd t10 hospital fund, left steulay for
steaming parallel to the transports and j Alb.inv to consult tlov. Whitman, whose
between them nnd tlio "blue" fleet. In- ,.0ml,lentlul adviser he K regarding the
terposcu itseir to cut ort Admiral Helm's filiation. He will seek to havo tho
attack. j siiiiln I'.onrd nf Health order tlio noen.
nillug action
,. ilelnrmloeit
mo rusn or me iranspons inr ino coasi
Lieut, Sir Krnest H. Shacltlcton nr
riveil at Port Stanley. Falkland Islands,
nn May 31 with live members of his ex
pedition. They left twenty-two mem
bers of the expedition on Klcphant Island
on April !. Tho first attempt to tescuo
the men on Klcphant Island was mmln
during Juno and tho second attempt was
maue in July.
lowed the transports, keeping Admiral
Helm informed. At the time tho "bluo"
battlo fleet was fifteen mile further In
shore steaming In a Una parallel to tho
transport train.
To Long Island C'oaat.
At S;I0 tho same evening the Itcnhun
NORMAN PRINCE SCORES AGAIN.
Anicrlcnu Aviator In French Army
Brings Donn German Filer.
.'refill (.'able le$patch tn Tnr. Pes,
Paiiis, Aug. 2G A. C. Lane, cor
respondent of Tun Surf with tho French
flying corps, writing yesterday, says that
xorman prlnco of tho American squad
ron brought down a Herman neroplano
that morning. It fell so far behind tho
(lerman lines that no French observation
olllcer could seo It clearly and It could
not be recorded ofllclally.
Chouteau C. Johnson, a New Yorker,
son of D. I). Johnson of St, Louis, who
only recently Joined the American avia
tion wiuadrori nt the front, attacked an
other Herman machine. Ho got Into an
excellent position without tlio Herman
aviator or observer seeing him when the
releaso spring of his machlno gun broko
and ho was unable to attack.
Soino fifty neutral military attaches,
Including four American army otllcers,
visited tlio American squadron Wednes
day, Tlio American ofllcers dined nt tho
Hquadron's mess nnd said tho members
would bo of great service In tho United
States tn helping to build up nnd In
struct the Inadequate flying corps of tho
American army.
.. . . ... Mine r.oarii or neaiiu oroer mi
Tho lice s engaged promptly, but tlie)nt- f institution, Pending
blue' position was hopeless. 1o cut oft nt A,any nn, view of tin-dctc
critical.
The brotherhood leaders lifter being
In meeting most of the day adjourned to
10 o'clock to-nioi ro.y morning.
I'efusal of the tallway executive to
accept tho President's plan will put tho
next move up to the brotbeiliond". It
probably will be communicated to them
Meanwhile soino development of tm."sl-
Me Congressional action Is expected and
will depend on tlm oiltcoinii of tho next
steps 1. ctwecii tlio employers and em
ployccn. Annlsls ut the Situation.
The situation summed up lata to.i it-lit
by those in closo touch with It wan:
President Wilson has seen tho pub-
It had to swing sharply to tho west
Steaming In column formation It
struck tho hostile column nt right angles
and at approximately tho centro of tlio
"Hod" line. Admiral Mayo, tho "Bed"
commander, stood his ground, concen
trating tho lire of his ships on the
leading defending battleships, which
were forced to bear off, paralleling the
"Bed" column to avoid collision.
Duplicates North Sea Battle,
As each defending ship rounded the
turn tho tiro of half of Admiral Mayo's
ships was concentrated upon it, dupli
cating the Incident In tho recent North
Sea battle in which several British
baffle cruisers wero sunk
opposition of those who are guarding llslied reports of the reply the executives
tlm Institution It is not thought that
any attempt will bo mado to admit
patient: until tho matter has been set
tled. Actions for damages against the con
trlbiiters to the hospital fund are threat
ened by those opposed to the Institution
If they nru beaten.
CUBA ACTS TO BAR CHOLERA.
Declare llnnrniitlnc Against Vera
Cms. Where Disease Kxlsts.
Havana, Auk. 25. As u consequence
of tlm receipt of Information that cholera
exists In Vera Cruz a quarantine has
While the battle still was In progress been declared In Cuban ports. This car-
Nnnilnated for Federal Job.
Wasihnoton, Aug. 2fi. James J.
O'Keano of Vancouver, Wash., was nomi
nated to-day for receiver of public
moneys nt Vancouver,
COLQUITT LEADS CULBERSON.
Wilson Nrnatorlal Candidate Heeras
Defeated In Texas Primary.
IHu.ah, Tex.. Aug. 26. Virtually
complete returns from practically all
Texas counties In tho Democratic Sena
torlal run oft primary to-day gave Sen
ator Charles A. Culberson, known as
the Wilson candidate, 148. 507, ns ngulnst
ex-lluv. Colquitt's 183,457. Less than
3u,iio votes remain to bo accounted for.
A notable fact from the returns re
ceived Is that the former dovernor car
ried nroctlcallv every "CJerman" c-vunty.
He also seems to have carried the larger
counties and cities,
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SEVEN SECTIONS, AS FOLLOWS.
FIRST General Newi, Automobiles
SECOND -Sportinj. Kenneli . . . . . .
THIRD Newi of the Rtiorti, Fatmoni, Real Eitite, Drama, School!, Cardeni
FOURTH Pictorial Magazine
FIFTH -Special Feature i Section . . . . . . . , . . ,
SIXTH Editorial. Foreign, Booki, Queries, Financial, Problems, Chess ,
SEVENTH Roman Catholic School Supplement
Total .... . . .
RiaJtri ct iHUtJtaltit uht do not rtcttu all of thut $ttln$ Uill ttnftt fatot
en "Tk Sun" h ncUfylnt tht PMcaUcn Dtpatbntnl et one h P"
(2200 Bkman) iW mlulnf ucUtm uill fa promptly fenterM If poulik.
X 1
Pages
12
.8
10
8
10
8
44
Too
Admiral Helm played his last card. Tlio
submarines, mobilized nt Block Island
tho preceding night, were following the
movements nf the "red" transports, but
keeping well In shore as a last Hue of
defence Daylight found them within nn
hour or two of tho chosen landing point
of tho Invaders. Admiral Helm ordered
them forward In a desperate effort to
destroy tho troop ships.
Four of the seventeen underwater crnft
had been destroyed previously, Tho re
maining thirteen wcro unable to stop the
Invaders; tho transports swept on whllo
tho destroyers und cruisers attacked the
submarines.
Tho transports carrying tho Invading
army remained effectively Bcreoned, but
the "Bed" battleships Texas and Nevada
were torpedoed and sunk and tho "Bed"
destroyers Tucker and Wadsworth dis
posed of.
Naval officers hero comment on tho
1 hard luck of tho officers In command of
these battleships, Capt. Victor Bluo and
Capt, W. S. Sims. Capt. Bluo left tho
bureau or navigation, where ho was
rles with It the detention for flvo days
of persons from tho Mexican port.
Brport of Cholera at Vera Cms.
Washimiton, Aug. 25. An uiiauthentl
cnted report of the existence of cholera
nt Vera I'ruz, Mexico, has prompted pub
lic health authorities to Instruct Its of
tlclals nt all Culf and Mexican border
ports to bo on the alert for any suspects.
UEBKNECHT ENTERS APPEAL.
German Socialist Leader to Fight
I'unr Years Sentence.
Bermn, via, London, Aug. 26, Dr.
Karl Llebknecht, Socialist leader, to-day
entered an appeal from tha sentence
of Imprisonment Imposed last Wednesday,
will make him Monday and docs not wish
to accept It. It would not surprise those
In the confidence of tb railroad nlllclals
to lmva him make a counter proposal nt
that time retaining his orlKlnal proposi
tion for nn eight hour day, but offering
the roads as compensation Congressional
iissuranics of a freight late, increase
and a commission to fetllo futuiu ills-lllltes.
Among the executives to-nlchf It cle ir
ly vvns evldert that such n counter pro
noal nrobably would not bn accepted.
Whether they would receive It front
President Wilson and tako It under con
sideration for n few days was not at all
certain, but Its ultimate rejection was
forecast generally.
The position of the men Is not clear.
Apparently they will not accept tlio
reply of tho executives, as It has been
published, but they might bo willing
to negotiate with It as a basis. They
will discuss this point at their meeting
to-morrow morning.
Legislators Opposed Increase,
Nobody knows tho attitude of Con-
The head of each brothel hood organi
zation met with Ills vlie-pieshletitH to
night and discussed tentative plans for
a strike. The manner In which tlio
Federal liovernrueiit lias been Injected
Into tho situ iron would make It almost
imperative. It is thought, that any r.trlk
be dlieetcd from here.
As the brotherhood men saw the sit
uation to-nli-lit, only two ste could
prevent a walkout. Tho.o ino for tho
inllronds to wltlrlraw the'r Insistence
upon arbitration for all of tlio di-iiiatnlH
of th men, or for tho tloverninent lo
take over tho lallto.ols for operation for
the dilution of Dm sltlke. I.ltth, con
Mdonco was cxprcst-ed tluit the railroad
loads would reiede, but tin; men pro-fe-sed
to hi cut hopes of I iovcrtillieut
opeiatlon of the lines, particularly after
the Presidents visit to I'onvrcss. ,lut
what these hopiH.wcio lalsed upon vvae
not apparent
If it strike should come, it was learned
to-night. It probably will not becomo
operative for about a week, Tho brother
hood men, while lliey have tho tight M
declare a strlko fiom here, probably
would not do so until tlio It piesentatlvcs
having to-day nnd to-nioi row had talked
tho situation over with their local com
mittees, .some of them could not reach
borne In less than live days.
t'nlnn Lenders re ( it I to,
Considering the strain under which
they Wfre waiting, the eniplojees' tipie
smtatlves were icmarkablj calm to-day.
No demonstrations occurred at any of
their three meetings,
The hrothethooil heads did not ad
dress uny of the sessions. They prom
ised to cill at the hall If they heird
floni the White HolIM', but f.lllinc to
hear, they did pot go near It nor com
mtinieate with the men theie.
Brotherhood otllclals wire almost as
much at sea as the men. They expected
the President would see tho railroad
heads and teeelve their plan during tho
morning and talk with them about
noon. They had no lomnu-rit to make
on drv lopments except to say they
were "Just waiting" for word fiom tho
White House.
Owing to what seemed to be a nils
undnrstandlng between tho railroad ex
ecutive and tlm Piesldent the ptesenta.
lior. of the r.tilioads' formal teply to tho
President's proposal wan delayed until
Monday. At tho White llouso it was
said tho President hail waited until 4
o'clock this afternoon for word from the
railway presidents that they desired to
see him. Not hearing from them ho left
the White House for a drive.
'' Avvnlled Wilson's Invlfntlon,
Tho railway executives In the mean
time, with their counter proposals In
final foitn. had been waiting at tho
gresn toward tho suggi-sled legislation.
It was pointed out to-nlclit that there
are many Senators who bitterly opposed , wulariI ,,tol fr ,, summons from the
the j per cent. Increaso recently Kianhsl whito House. When It fulled to come
the F.astcrn roads nnd criticised tho ,hey P0UKlt ., meeting with tlm Presl
commlsslon for Its position In the ease, l)lnt for to.niuht, but wero told ho had
A despatch from Berlin last Wednes
day said IJr, Llebknecht had been sen
tenced to four years and one month
chief. Just In time to take command of I""' wvltude nnd expulsion from the
tho Texas nnd Capt. Sims Is recognized "rmy for his appeal against a previous
ns ono of the leading nnval strategists. sentence of thirty mnntlia Imprisonment
Tho Navy Department Is grcntly fr war treason. The Socialist leador
pleased with tho outcome of the war In the latest sentence also wus deprived
gaire. "It has been an excellent nnd "l "'"", t.
helpful lesson to ua all," waa the com- , curt announced Irt Imposing sentence
ment of Rear Admiral Benson, chief
naval operation.
of I that Dr. Llebknecht had the privilege
of ap appeal tram to Utait Juaftnant.
and who might bo expected tn npposo
any proposal that would direct the com
mission to grant another Increase.
Tho executives appear confident that
public opinion a quantity In tho equa
tion that they havo not overlooked
will bo with them tn their Insistence,
upon tho principle of arbitration and
their opposition to nn eight hour day,
Tho executives' reply will bo divided
Into argument awl statement of their
position. The statement will ehnvv that
they do not accept tho eight-hour day
with pay for ten hours as demanded by
the men; that they maintain this do-
mado other engagements. Tint Presi
dent suggested ho probably would h
nblo to cancel the appointments, but the
railroad representatives were content to
let tho nueting go over until 10 o'clock
Monday morning.
The general Impression hero was that
the President, realizing his plan of set
tlement had failed, was glad to havo
the delay.
Tho President nt his conference with
Senator Kern, tnajoilty I. .nler of the Sen
ate, and Senator New lands, eh. n man of
the lutirrt.itu t'ommir -e Coni.nil l,Hd
befuro them the situation nil 1 s us'i'
mand really Is ono for an Increase of their counsel as to the pos 'M ' n-
wages and that a question of e. wage In- plying with thu deiji.uul of tin a Ii id,
creaaa la a matter of arbitration and for I for compensation tn tho event tnc igiit
