'i' K
w-sawter -&&&
Jg:W
'l K,W
-: $&:,' a
,
i-nl
' ""' ' " - ' r '
". i
"V
.'
ri
itwtmt
WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair Tonight
(Full Report on Paga Two.)
Sunday Evening
vEdition
NUMBER 9005.
WASHINGTON, SUNDAY EVENING, -AUGUST 27, 1916.
PRICE ONE CENT.
r "
1
. r'sjsL '
SERBS DEFEAT
BULGARIAN
ENTIRE ERONT
Beat Back Six Desperate At
tacks on AHied Left Wing in
Macedonia.
INVADERS NOW RETREATING
Heavy Cannonading Reported
Along Struma River and
Lake Doiran.
PARIS, Aug. 27. Beaten back
after having made six desperate
attacks on the allied left wing in
Macedonia,'1 Bulgarian troops hae
suffered a sanguinary defeat at the
hands of the Serbians and are re
treating ( atong the whole front in
the Vetrinik region, according to
an official statement on the Bal
kan fighting issued by the French
a war department, today. n
Dispatches from Saloniki say
that heavy cannonading is going
along on both the Struma river
and Lake Doiran fronts, it is of
ficially announced.
British aviators bombarded
enemy camps at Kulatopolca and
Prosenik.
Good Samaritan of Marlinton' ' Dead;
May Be First Woman Suffrage Martyr
TWO MORE NATIONS
ON VERGE OF WAR
Rtumanit and Greece Preparing to'
LONDON Aug, M. Two more nation.
Ortece and Roumania. are on the vergfe
of twinging' Ipto the world, war agatnat
the central powera.
Athena today la In a wild riot for war.
aroused by the news of the Bulgar occu
pation of Greek territory along the coaat
for fifty miles, capture of the Green
fort after herolo resistance and the re
ported capture of Kavala.
The Liberal party la holding a mon
ster demonstration counter to the king.
'Wild scenes are being enacted aa the de
mand that Greece Join forces openly with
the allies Is voiced.
Roumania has gone a step further. Im
portant preparations for war have been
made as the- newa of wider aggressions
by the Bulgara in Greek territory Is re
ported. The extraordinary credit for the Rou
manian armv has been tripled, from $40.-
000,000 to 3120,000.000, by a decree of the
council of mlnlstera and the post of di
rector of munitions created and filled.
. King Ferdinand la reported to have
snubed the Kaiser by flatly refusing to
treat directly with the emperor through
a special envoy and advising htm that
any communication he sent should come
thrmigh the regular diplomatic channels.
Bulcars Disperse British.
Bulgarian troops have reached tha
Greek Aegean coast and have occupied
Greek territory along the coast ror up
ward of fifty mtlea. In these opera
tlons, the official statement telegraphed
from Sofia says, they dispersed British
cavalry patrols and occupied several
Greek villages.
The British retreated toward Orfano,
on tho Aegean, a little east of the estu-
(Continued on Page Nine.)
Cunarder Painted
Battleship Gray
Saxon ia, Under New Garb, Sails
for Liverpool With More
Than 100 Passengers.
Friend of Everyone' in Little West Virginia
Townees Slain, While Her Husband Is
in a Cell,. Denying That He Killed Her.
MARL1NTON, W. Va., Aug. 27. Has wqman suffrage claimed
its first real martyr in the death of Frances Robertson Howard,
the Good Samaritan of Marlinton?
Mrs. Howard is dead, apparently at the hands of another: her
husband is in. a cell shouting denials of the charge against him; the
the little lumbering town of Marlinton is unwillingly the stage of a
tragic mystery and a woman suffrage rally preceded it all!
If the tangled ends of circumstantial evidence ultimately weave
together as the authorities plan, Mrs. Howard may be entitled to an
epitaph:
"Slain because she espoused the cause of the ballot for women."
It would be a queer angle to the fight of more than half a cen
tury for woman's suffrage.
Passing over for the time Mrs. Howard's first public utterance
for "the cause" the reputed anger of her husband, the preceding al
tercation between the' two on the streets of Marlinton, and the dis
covery later of the body of the woman; with neck dislocated, one
should know something of the romance ofjhe Marlinton Hospital.
Frances Robertson ws head nurse 'at the hospital some six
years ago; Deft of hand, tender", of heart, and with a smile for the
convalescent and the seriously ill, she endeared herself to practically
every man,-woman and child in Marlinton. She came of aflne old
(Continued on Seventh Page.)
MRS. FRANCES ROBtTSON HOWARD.
LbbbbbbbbbbbbWV
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBIK. .
J BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBk X
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBm
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbV
jLbLbLbLbLbLbLbLbLbLbLbLbLbY
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBL
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBHBBBBBBBBBBBBBBnBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBLV
aBBBBBBBBBBBBBBHBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBWX
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBm&BBVHHRFBBBBBBBBBBBBBBa 1
bbbbbbbbbbbhbbb1bbbbbbbbbbHbwv .jbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbh
ajBBaHiBBBBBBBBHr"fBBBBBBBBBBH
HIBBBBHVErtr'.j fy&p fBLLw
"V' iXJFy T crvx it w-m im zmmm jf ,
BnllnOlHmlHrlflllHi Tff
ffinillf ifffffffTM
iTTfiftflrmTifffgilB
tWSmfrKSKm' ' f iiisssSISSSMBSJSJSJSJMMBMm'W'' i"yi.'.J..'.'.-aX WW$
BMBBEliBaBtigyjBJMlBBBBBMfll Jurf
llBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBgr''lBBBBBBBBBBBBBWBMBii JA!MP;giHlt JK&fc
BBBBBBBBBLBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBI'BBBBBiBBBBHBBBBVR bV( Wmtrmx 'WWV'?tM-MiMl
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiBBBBBMfc!BWglBBBBMBiBBBBMBBMBatWSr: - BBBMt WM JBKS! BH kH vOtOtwmBM
lBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBHiBBBBR$ 'Bh1BVHBBHKJH1BBBBbSa Tt' BBBBl! BBl-riiK.BBllBBMBrflV9B
LbHijbbbbIbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHHK HBBLIB9BBllam: bbB mmWlL bHLbI Vdnn
bbHbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHHbbbHjI J9Mmm&9Uww.W:i wm ' Wm'SHmmSKm
UHiBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBlBBkBBBHiBBBIi bHLbHPUIm BSSJ'V-t.Sr lSSHST- --BaBKft
BBBBBBBBBBBBBHBBBBBBBBBBBaBBBBBBlHlBBBBBaBV.aaJaaffiT&r' Pt'l'lll' w .-' I rjlSpai!MiMBP!Vrr74KkVnBBBliiBBH
BMBHMMMKBBBLBBBLtlai8m, jaciBri!ir
BBBHHaBiBBBBHBBfliBBk9BlillBBVBBBBViBSBliBBV
IBBBJBBBJBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBSJBBBJBHHBBBBBIBBBBBBlTBVPBBlBBltBBBBBBBB I
IIHBBBBBBBBBBBHBJIBBBBBBBIBBJSBBBBBBVVBBBBBBBjHdBBnnBSBPBBBBBB viBBBfllBBBBHiBBBBBBKS I
HilBBBBBBBBHJBlBBBBiBBHDilllHH
IIIbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbIbbbbHbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb tIbbHIpTbSbWS
w i , , i , ml
WIISON WORKING
ON NEW PLAN TO
AVERT R. R. STRIKE
President, With Information Road Executives
Will Reject Eight-Hour Proposal, and
Employe Stand Pit, Considering
Means to Prevent Tie-Up.
ISSUE TO BE DECIDED TOMORROW
THE RAILROAD DISPUTE
What the Men Will Accept' What the Raflway. Will Accept
t That the men receive theeTght
hour day, with ten hours' pay for
eight hour' work.
1 That overtime be paid on pro
rata basis.
3. That all other Issues be settled
by a Federal commission.
These modifications by President
WlUon were pronounced satisfactory
by the men after they had demanded
ten houra' pay for eight hour' work,
with all overtime to be paid for at the
rate of, pay 'for time and a half.
tt
. That the Interstate Commerce
Commission authorise the railroads,
starting at once, to keep two sets of
maintenance book, one on the basis
of the present rate of pay, and one
on the basis of tne. men' original
demands.
1 That the President name a board
of arbitration to consider the whole
of the Issues between the railroads
and the brotherhoods.
S. That the difference in amounts
between what the two sets of books
show be subject to the draft of the
arbitrators to pay the men whatever
Increase In wages they may Ox, the
eight-hour day proposition being left
to the arbitrators.
What Congress May Do.
pjritAdopt an amendment to the Nil already paased by the House In
creasing the Interstate Commerce Commission from sevento nine membera:
to provide that the commission Ip deciding petitions for felght rate In
creases shall take wage schedules Into consideration. It has not been the
custom of the commission to consider waxe Increases at all In adjusting
freight rate.
Second Adopt an amendment to Lt ha Newlanda act which created tlje
Board of Mediation eui Conciliation, providing' that 'the board, aren. though
its ryicea.a rejected Br both -aide tq a railroad labor controversy, shall be
empowered to Interpose anil investigate the merits of the dispute, and both
sides to the dispute shall be enjoined against either a strike or a Uekovt
pending the outcome of the investigation.
MARLINTON HOSPITAL.
Dr. Oliver Arnold Howard, Who Is Held for Murder, Is Seated on Top Step.
Arrow Points to Him.
WH
H
I
TO
NEW YORK, Aug. J7. Her once spot
less white upperworka painted a dull
battleship gray, the Baxonla, of the
Cunard line, steamed yesterday for
Liverpool, with more than 100 cabin pas
sengers on board.
The Saxonla, with her companion ves
sels, the Carpathln. and Pannonla, has
been taking the place of the other ves
sels of the lino on the Liverpool route
which have been withdrawn for use In
the British naval reserve for transport
and other service. All three vessels were
at one time In the Mediterranean serv
ice. When the war ends the Saxonla will
go hack to that service. It was said, and
her place will be taken by the new
Aqultanla.
POLITICAL BIG GUNS
TRAINED ON MAINE
State Now Center of Greatest Con
flict It Has Known.
Eighteen Red Cross Girls From
Capital on Way to Texas
and Arizona.
rOriTLAND, Me., Aug. 27.-Malne Is
today In the midst of one of the great
est political conflicts It ever has known.
, With the best of the Republican spell
hinders. Including Colonel Roosevelt,
scheduled to exhort the principles of the
O. O. P. throughout Maine this week,
and the entire Wilson Cabinet scheduled
to make a drive for the votes, the strug
Kle to carry the State election on Sep
tember 11 la tense. .
Ho heated has become the struggle
that the Itepubllcan State commltee
tins organised wnat la virtual!! a
house. to-house caavaaa.
Eighteen Washington nurses are
amorg an advanced detachment of
fifty-five sent by the American Red
Cross to Texas and Arlxqna for ser
vice on the Mexican border. Request
for the nurses was made by the sur
geon general of the War Department,
who asked that 100 be sent to the
base hospitals .on the border. The
additional forty-five will be aent In'
a second detachment soon.
Twelve of the Washington nurses
were sent to Fort 8am Houston at
San Antonio. They were: Lula T.
Lloyd, 1SS7 K street northwest: Sara
Corson, the Nottingham Apartment;
Katherlne C Qlancy, 1400. A street
southeast; Mottle Good, 3400 Holmead
street northwest; Ada Haydon, 8400
Holmead street northwest; Dora
Krebs, 1223 Fifteenth, street north
west; Mary E. Noone, Falkstone
Courts; Nellie Rothwell, 1337 K
street; Ethel Teague. 3400 Holmead
street northwest; Ruble Venable, the
Nottingham Apartment; Alice E.
Hale, and Katherlne Jolllffe.
Six nurses were sent to Douglas,
Arizona. They were; Harriet P. Han
kins, Wardman Cqurts South; Nannie
Hardy, 1337 K street northwest; Grace
L. Stoek, Tuberculosis Hospital; Mar
jorie Woodsell, Loola Nicholson and
Margaret McQary, Miss Hanklns and
Miss McQary served In the European
Red Cross hospital units. Miss Hardy
and Miss Lloyd did nursing service
at the occupation of Vera Crur.
Youth Walked 130 Mijes
To Attend Campmeeting
Troops Sent Against WOMAN
Raiders in "Big Bend"
Regular and Militia Troopers Pursuing Bandits Who
Looted Texas Ranches West of Presidio Mexi
can Exiles in U. S. Plan New Political Coup.
EL PASO, Tex., Aug. 27. Oen.
George Bell, Jr., prepared today to
send re-enforcements to the "Big
Bend" country from his border patrol
command at El Paso If needed, as a
result of the latest Mexican raid Into
American territory. The raid Is re
ported to have taken place at a point
known as Ruldoso, fifty miles went
of Presidio, Tex., which is opposite
OJInaga. Mexico,
The Mexicans are reported to have
dlrven oft horses from a Texan ranch
and to have continued further Into
Texas Instead of .turning back Into
Mexico. The Sixth United States Cav
alry and the Texas Cavalry are sta
tioned in the vicinity of the reported
raid and are reported following the
bandits, with the Intention of cross
ing into Mexico if they are not cap
tured in Texas.
This last reported raid Is located 100
miles west of Glen Springs and Bo
qutllas. raided by a band of Mexicans
several months ago, resulting in a
second American punitive expedition
entering Mexico, commanded by Major
George Langhorne.
Exiled Factions to Join.
Word received hero from New York
says the legalism party and the na
tional league of Mexicans, both formed
by Mexicans in the United States, plan
to combine their efforts to restore Mex
ico to the rule of the clentlflcos, form
er associates of Dies, at present the
legalist party Is a distinct and separate
organisation from tne .national leag
or Mexicans, formed recently In New.
York city by exiled Mexicans, but It Is
expeciea me two organizations pron
ably will Join forces
nouncement sas.
It Is explained that
league of Mexicans, of
soon, the an-
the national
whloh Flores
v.iw. .. U. ,,.-v..arenceMa- Manuel Gastellatos. and others
Barton, nineteen, walked ISO miles, from are leaders, has for Its. object the unl
hls home to Clinton, to attend the Mis- flcatlon of the old reactionary elements,
sourl conference and annual camp meet- .The league has been Invited by the leg
log of the Seventh Dajr.A4vmUiUw allst party to join with It U Us war
nounced effort to save Mexico from an
archy. The proposition haa been. sub
mitted to the leaders of the league.
The national league of Mexicans has
as yet little, If any, monetary resources.
The legalist party, made up of the
members of the old antt-re-electlonlst
party, or Maderlstas, already has ob
tained financial backing, and has be
come active In some places.
As the platforms of the two parties
are practically identical, it Is believed
that a union of the two will "be effec
ted. Many of the exiled cleptlflcos have
expressed themselves privately as will
ing to support any partv which offers
their safe return to Mexico.
A serious problem Is facing the health
officials of the United States Govern
ment on the border as a result of the
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
In Mine 13 Days
Without Food, Lives
GENESEO. N. Y Aug. 27. "Bennle"
Korsoskl. twenty years old, lost for
thlrtoen days In a salt mine at Retsof,
west of this village, without food, was
rescued last night. He will recover.
Koroskl went down In the mine with
the night hlft on, Saturday, August 12.
He did not appear at his boarding place
in the morning and the matter was re
ported to the sheriff. Fellow workmen
said he came out of the mine, but no
Information could be obtained as to his
whereabouts.
Korsoskl says he started for the shaft
after tho other men had left, but the
lights went out and he took the wrong
track leading Into the old passage.
When found he was more than a mile
Xrom the foot of the shaft. He was
hlaaliansd and very emaciated.
10
HO
f
OFFICER
no
Tells Conflicting Stories Re
garding Her Relations With
Captain Spratlinfj-
MACON, Ga., Aug. 27,-Confused and
hysterical, Mrs. H. C.' Adams, who shot
and kllleld Copt. Edgar J. Spratllng, of
the Foiirth Goorgla Infantry, Friday, In
n cell nt tho county Jail told conflicting
stories today of her relations with the
Atlanta phjslclan-mllltla officer.
Hor latest statomeat Is that she had
not seen Captain Sp'ratllng for more
than a year. But the account books In
his office toll that ahe visited him there
nine or ten times within the last month.
The last entry In the books shows a
Visit 'only two days before the shooting.
"I shot Captain Spratllng because he
ulned my life a year ago and deserved
to be shot," Mrs. Adams said tonight.
Asked why she had waited so long, she
declared she had brooded over the af
fair for many montyis.
The story told by Mrs. Maud Monk,
a trained nurso, who looms up as a poa
slble "other woman" in the case, than
Spratllng had shown her letters from
Mrs. Xdams threatening to kill him un
less he brought her to Atlanta to live
with him, was branded by'Mrs. Adams
as "every word a lie."
I never saw th,ls Monk woman," she
said, "and never heard of her."
The disconnected statements bv the
prisoner apparently strengthened the
view In many quarters that Mrs. Adams
is suffering from mental trouble.
This belief appears furthn supported
by the fact that the defendant is known
to be of a highly temperamental nature,
and Indeed had been under treatment
for nervous disorders for more than a
year.
Mrs. Monk today reiterated her
statement that the deed was caused by
Jealousy. She also refused to recede
from her assertion as to the letters.
Mrs. Spratllng Is prostrated, follow
ing the return of the body of the officer.
Her condition Is said to be serious.
Whether the country's record-breaking industrial ac
tivity is to continue, or to be supplanted by complete slag
nation due to a tie-up of the nation's railroads, will be de
termined before tomorrow night.
The railroad presidents have framed their answer to
President Wilson's eight-hour day ultimatum and this will
be delivered to "Wilson at the White House tomorrow mo-n-
ing.
The counter proposition of the railroad magnates is
declared today to be unsatisfactory to both the President
and the railroad employes. Upon the series of conferences
to follow the presentation tomorrow of the counter prop
osition depends the question of a strike that will paralyze
the country's industries.
WILSON CONSIDERING PROPOSAL.
President Wilson is considernig today the form of the
new" proposal to the railroad presidents and the brotherhood
workers in an effort to avert the nation-wide strike.
The President has been advised from advance account
of the railroad executives' proposal that it is a rejection of
his first strike settlement suggestion.
' He has been informed that the demand of the railroad
executives for arbitration of their refusal to adopt the eight
hour basic day will be flatly rejected by the brotherhood
leaders and chairman.
Anticipating a hardening of the-deadlock when the
counter proposal of the railroad managers is submitted to
him tomorrow morning, the President today is said to be
preparing suggestions along two lines that he hopes will
form the basis for successful negotiation.
ADVANTAGE WITH EXECUTIVES.
As the situation stands at present the railroad execu
tives' have gained a strategic advantage over the President
a,nd the railfoad workers.
When the President made his proposal that the rail
roads adopt the eight-hour basic day, leaving collateral mat
ters to investigation by a commission, and this proposal was
accepted by the railroad workers, the railroad executives and
managers were warned in a public statement by the Presi
dent that the responsibility for any strike that might ensue
would rest on their shoulders.
SHIFTING RESPONSIBILITY.
The railroad presidents snlfted this re
sponsibility back to the shoulders of the
President and the brotherhoods fcy urg
ing arbitration of a countar-propsaa! If
the suggested arbitration plan 'Is re
Jected It is to shift the responsibility
back t'o the railroads and put them In a
defensive, rather than an offensive, 'posi
tion that the President now Js consider
ing new proposals.
President Wilson had no engagement
with representative of either aide today.
He does no( expect to renew the White
House conference until he summons the
railroad presidents tomorrow morning to
receive their counter-proposal.
No hint of the 'nature of the new
proposals considered by the President
was given at the White House to
day. It was considered likely, how
ever, that the next step taken by the
President would be influenced by his
conference at the Capital yesterday
with the Senate leaders, when, he dis
cussed the possibility of giving
xscuUvs u IscUUUvt tlsV to tM
i
.. M
(
