THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
20 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, AUGUST 27, 1916
20 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 101
d tims iron
TT TT1
HI SOIMI
11 AIM. UVJUU ill.
iH
Airman
42T
w
MBA
ESS
ON
43T
IBECTEHD STRIKE SITUATION
BECOMESSDGBAVEPRESIQENT
ASKS CONGRESS Fl HOP
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Washington, Aug. 26. The threatened railway strike took on such a
grave aspect today that President Wilson turned toward congress for a solu
tion of the problem.
Suddenly this afternoon, when it . became known that the railway
executives were unanimous in their refusal to accept his plan of settlement,
President Wilson personally went to the capitol and laid before Majority
Leader Kern of the senate and Senator Newlands, chairman of the interstate
commerce commission, the statement of the railway heads that congress must
guarantee some source of added revenue if they are to meet the demands of
their employes.
How this should be accomplished. President Wilson did not suggest. Im
mediately afterwards, senators began discussing proposals to have congress
record itself in favor of a rate increase.
No arrangements were made today for the president to address congress
on the subject but it was considered likely that he might do so during the
coming week if the situation continued critical.
Tonight the railway executives finished framing their answer to Presi
dent Wilson's plan and notified the White House they were ready. President
Wilson sent word he would prefer to see them Monday morning at 10 o'clock.
The brotherhood leaders after being in meeting most of the day, ad
journed to 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. Many of them left town tonight.
The refusal of the railway executives to accept the president's plan in
cluding concession of the eight-hour day, and proposing a counter plan such
as previously has been outlined, will put the next move up to the brotherhood
leaders. It probably will be communicated to them .officially Monday after
President Wilson had heard it from the executives.
Meanwhile some development of possible congressional action is expected
and will depend on the outcome of the next steps between the employers and
employes.
The executives held several meet
ings during the day but no change
resulted In the position they took
last night when they approved a
rough lira ft of their reply to Presi
dent Wilson. H was 6: HO tonight
when the committee of eight, which
hns handled the negotiations an
nounced that they had asked for a
conference with President Wilson
and awaited his pleasure. After a
two hours' wait the executives an
nounced that President Wilson had
informed them lie would prefer not
to see them tonight.
The situation as summed up late
tonight lv those close in touch with
it, was this:
President Wilson has seen the pub
lished reports of the reply the exe
cutives will make him Monday and
docs not wish to accept it. It would
not surprise those in the confidence
of the railroad officials to have him
make a counter proposal at that time,
retaining hi original proposal for an
eight-ho-jr day but offering the roads
ns compensation congressional as
surances of a rrelgtit rate increase
n nd a commission to Rettle future
disputes.
Anvng the executives tonight it
clearly was evident that such a
counter nroposal probably would not
l,e accepted. Whether they would
receive It from President Wilson and
take it under considertion for a few
dp.ys. wis not at all certain, but its
ultimate rejection was forecast gen
erally. The proposition of the men is not
clear. Apparently they will not ac
cept the rply of the executives as it
has been published, but they might
be willing to negotiate with it as a
b:isis. They will meet again at 10
o'clock tomorrow morning.
Nobodv knows the attitude of
congress toward the suggested leg
islation. It was pointed out tonight
that there are many senators who bit
lerlv opposed the five (per cent in
crease recently granted the eastern
roads nnd criticized the commission
for Its position in the case and who
might le expected to oppose any pro
posal that would direct the commis
sion to crant another increase.
The executives appear confident
Hint public opinion will be with them
in their insistence upon the principle
of arbitration and their opposition to;
an eight-hour dav.
The executives replv will be divided
into arguim nt and statement of their
position. Their statement will show
that they do not accept the eight
hour day with pay for ten hours ns
demanded bv the men; that they
maintain this demand really is one
for an increase in wages; and that
a question of a wage increase is a
matter of arbitration and for settle
ment In no other way. It will nug-
Judge Hughes Names Roosevelt and Brings Applause
ACTIVITY ON ALL
FIGHTING GOES
THE
BATTLE FRONTS
CHLORIDE MINE STRIKE
IS DECLARED OFF.
P
KINGMAN, Ariz., Aug. 2G. The
strike of the union employes of
the Tennessee mine of the United
States Smelting Refining and Min
ing company at Chloride, inaugur
ated yesterday, was declared off
today when Manager Muir grant
ed an increase of Ml cents per day
to cage-tenders, but declined to
give an increase to firemen. There
were no other demands made.
1)0 SHIS
INVASION NOT
IMPOSSIBILITY
position which they feel they have
gained with the public by risking
another attempt.
The attitude of the executives to
night was in marked contrast to that
of a few days ago. Apparently diff
erences of opinion have been swept
away and they are. facing the situa
tion with a united front and are
ready fcr what may come.
Brotherhood, leaders said tonight
that departure of a large number of
the six hundred nnd fortv renresenta-
tives for their homes during the day j
should not be interpreted as an indi
cation that the men were breaking
off negotiations or had abandoned
hope of a settlement. Manv moro
would ieave tomorrow, the leaders
said, but the heads and vice presi
dent of all the brotherhoods would
remain and would have sufficient
authority to deal with any develop
ment. It ws understood that the chief
reason for the exodus of labor men
lay in the fact that they are anxious
to keep in closer touch with the
uninnr; they represent and want to
make sure of their ground in that
direction before taking a decisive
steo. Thev will canvass sentiment
very carefully among the rank and
I file of the brotherhood men.
After Presidnt Wilson's conference
with Senator Newlands and Kern,
Senator Newlands discussed the sit
uation with Senators Robinson,
Saulsbury, Lewis and other demo
cratic members and Senator Cum
mins, a republican member of the
commerce commission. The senators
were reticent but the whole situation
is said to have been laid before the
democratic senators just as it stands
for them to think over and, if possi
ble, to find some means of satisfying
the demands of the roads.
Senator Newlands said he had not
called a meeting of the commerce
commission and did not know wheth-
ON WITH FEW
HE GAINS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Fighting continues on all the battle
fronts in Europe, but no notable sue
PREPARATIONS FOR
MEXICAN CONFERENCE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 2tJ. State de
partment officials are preparing to
send a mass of documents dealing with
the Mexican .situation and adequate
clerical forces to aid the joint com
mission which will seek a solution of
border difficulties. The American
commissioners have indicated to Sec-
retnrv T.rinjiriw th.it ih.i. f........ t.-....
tVnouth, N. H., as the meeting place.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug., 26. The
greatest war game ever undertaken
by the American navy ended today
with a victory for ACmiral Mayo's
"Red" fleet, which theoretically de
feated the defending "Blue" fleet and
landed an invading armf at Far
Rockaway Beach, L. I.
Rear Admiral Knight, acting as um
pire, announced the result in this re
port to the navy department:
"Maneuver completed. Red and
Blue bodies engaged nine thirty to ten
thirty this morning, ten miles south
of Ambrose Lightship. Blue decisively
defeated, Red gaining command of sea.
Red effects landing at Rockaway and
secures base."
The final report closely followed one
announcing that Rear Admiral Helm's
"Blues' defending fleet virtually had
been annihilated in a dramatic fight
off Scotland Lightship at the entrance
to the New York harbor. With the ex
ception of a few light craft, the entire
"Blue" fleet was "sunk'." The full
extent of the "Red" Itir.s was not
known tonight, although early reports
showed that they included the super
dreadnaughts Nevada and Texas and
two destroyers.
With Admiral Helm's fleet out of the
way, only a thin line of submarines
remained to protect the coast. Then
these, too, were quickly disposed of
by the "Red" fleet and with no foes
left to interrupt the landing of troops
from his transports, Admiral Mayo was
declared victor in the game and the
ships "Red" and "Blue" alike, started
for Newport after four days of arduous
duty at sea.
The story of the game as pieced to
gether from radio reports to the navy i
department indicates that the tactics
of Admiral Mayo completely puzzled
Admiral Helm and forced him to ac-.
cept battle in a position from which
there was no hope of escape. The um
pire declared the "Blue" fleet destroyed
cesses are chronicled. France and the i but a final decision will not Le made
region north of Saloniki have seen the until Kliseo Arrendondo, Mexican am
most intense activity, and in both bassador-designate, has been con
fields the initiative generally has been suited.
with the central powers. I The three American commissioners
Paris and London announce the re- will have a considerable force of state
pulse of repeated German attacks on department officials and clerks with
the Somme and Verdun fronts, tier- ' them in order that there may not be
man efforts were especially strong at avoidable delay in searching out in
Thiepval, Guillemont and Maurepas, , formation they may desire,
north of the Somme, and on the riglxt I 1
bank of the Meuse before erdun.
London claims an additional British
advance near Mouquet farm. German
trenches on a front of 400 yards along
the Curcelette-Thiepval road were oc
cupied. Berlin assertH the repulse of
attacks along the Somme front at vir
tually the same sectors where the Ger
man attacks are reported as Jiaving
taken place.
hofia records the repulse of eighteen
consecutive attacks by Serbian soldeirs
northwest of S:,lnnik-L The Serbian
li,lt.ii.u j m u.ild In Vi'i.'rt Item., luftrt I
Northeast of Saloniki the Bulgarians
apparently without opposition from the
1 1 reeks, have seized a good part of
northeastern Macedonia for fifty miles
along the Aegean.
The Bulgarians now have an addi
tional frontage along the Aegean and
are nearing Orfano, 50 miles northeast
of Saloniki, thus pressing in on the
allied troops along the Struma. No
allied advances are reported. London
reports that British aeroplanes have
bombarded cimm south of Demir-
Hissar at points recently within the -iL to iu ny tee senate tonight when
Anglo-French lines north of the , Senator Underwood offered' it as an
Struma. , amendment.
Italian troops are making progress at Discussion of the amendment was
several points in the mountain regions marked hy a bitter exchange between
Among those in attendance will be
James L. Rodgers, special agent of the
state department at Mexico City for
the last two years, but who started
north with the Mexican commissioners
today at the direction of the depart
ment. The administration's Mexican policy
was attacked in the senate today by
Senator Lippitt, republican, who said
the "unforgivable thing" was the lift
ing of the embargo on arms in Febru
ary, 1914.
"President Wilson, whose campaign
cry is that he has kept the country
out of war, used as an instrument the
most horrible and indefensible kind of
warfare," the senator said. "All the
forces of unbridled passion and lust
were armed and encouraged to conduct
a conflict, in which nothing was sacred,
not even the altar of religion."
EXEMPTION OF
INCOME TAX IS
I HOT i mnrr-im
BO I Li U
BANDITS CROSS
RIO GRANDE AND
RAID RANCHES
SAYS STALWART
AMERICAN MADE
NATION AWAKE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 26. A Dro-
posal to lower the present income tax I tomobile
exemption, written into the adminis
tration revenue bill by the senate
finance committee and then stricken
not when house leaders indicated they
would not accept it was voted down
around Trent. Rome also reports the
repulse of Austrian counter attacks in
the Alps. Vienna asserts that Italian
attacks in the Fassa Alps have les
sened, but Rome claims continued
progress there.
er it would meet. It was regarded as
probable, however, that a meeting "ours ueiore me rime limit or tne ac
might be held Monday. I tloir expired.
An informal conference of demo-; When the game began. Admiral
cratic members probably will be held ' Helm's fleet was assembled at Narra
during the next few days to deliher- j gansett. while Admiral Mayo with his
ate on the proposal. At anv rate, no , Meet and long transport train were six
immediate congressional action is - j hundred miles off Gape Hatteras. At
ticipated and no one in authority ; b a. m- on August Zi Admiral Helm
would state whether the railroad received work of his enemy'i location
crisis would operate to prevent ad-1 and his seventeen scouts swept out to
joiirnment of congress next week. 1 sea in a long circling line. An hour
Senator Newlands said congress later the "Blue" battleships also were
has power to direct the interstate , at sea following the scouts,
commerce commission to increase 1 The cruiser Baltimore sighted five
rates or lower them. A suggestion battleships, two cruisers and three
has been made, it was reported, that other units of the "Rd" fleet at B p. m.,
congress might pass the bill to in-1 August 23. They were 500 miles off
crease the membership of the inter- the coast, steaming west. The Balti
stnte commerce commission from more dared not attack such a force
seven to nine and attach to it an and presumably fled for safety,
amendment exnressinu the sense nf I It was 11 a. m., August 25, before
gest the creation of a commission ponsress that the railroads should 'he "Red" force again was sighted.
to arbitrate tins wage quesiion or k,,,, ., increase in freight rates if This time it was a battleship whicn
they accept an eight-hour day Stich " jicieu mi iiiiiuctipii t iui.
an expression by congress practically Again the "Blue" scout was out
,.i i . ... j; : I miilnhfiil
wi'um amount to duelling me com- -
mission to grant an increase Wheth- At -''- P- m-. August 25, the de
er such action would satisfy the siruyea nennam, nuer reported ut
railro ids, Senator Newlands said he stroyed in action, sighted the Ked
had no idea. transport train 75 miles off the New
As a matter of fact the law now Jersey coast. Relying on her supposed
specifically states." said Senator base, tne convoying warsnip, tne Ken
Try to Enter Trenches.
LONDON, Aug. 26. German troops
attempted twice to enter the British
lines in front of Bethune, north of
Arras, says tonight's British war of
fice communication. On the Somme
front the Germans bombarded the
Mametz wood and trenches north of
the Delville wood. Fighting continues
in the region of the Louquet farm.
delegation of power to the interstate
commerce commission to arbitrte. it
would make the arbitration retroac
tive and the roads would pledge
themselves to create a fund to care
for back wages if Increases are ap
proved by the arbitration board.
Three tlii.igs are cited by the exec
utive.! to back up this position. First
is that many of the big shippers of
the country have declared themselves
opposed to an , abandonment of ar
bitration and have Insisted that an
eight-hour d:iy must not be granted.
The second is a conviction that to
gK-e In to the men under present
conditions would undermine discipline
on the ronds to a serious extent and
would have far reaching after effects.
The third Is that no matter what as
surances are given they feel they
cannot exnect a rate Increase. This
feeling is explained with statements
that the .-ones have not Iorgotton
the way they were attacked when
the five per cent case was up, and
that thev do not care to lose the
Bulgarians Are Repulsed.
PARIS, Aug. 27., 2:47 a. m. The war
office official communication concern
the operations In the Balkans, says:
"On the Serbian front northwest of
Kukuruz, the Bulgarians delivered six
counter attacks in the region of Vete
rinik, but were repulsed along the
whole line. They suffered a sanguin
ary defeat and are falling back con
tinuously pressed by Serbian troops
whom they are stubbornly resisting.
On our left wing desperate actions
continued in the region of Ostrovo.
North of the Ostrovo road the Serbian
fire, caught Bulgarian attacking de
tachments which approached to within
ments which had approached to within
150 metres of our line and inflicted on
them very heavy losses. In front of a
single trench two hundred Bulgarians'
corpses were found.
"According to statements of prison
ers, the losses of the Bulgarians dur
ing the recent actions in the region of
Ostrovo have been great, especially
from the Serbian artillery which indis
putably dominates the hostile artillery."
democratic senators in charge of the
bill and Senator I'nderwood. author
of the present tariff law and who as
democratic lender of the house had a
prominent part for several years in
framing revenue legislation. Chair
man Simmons of the finance com
mittee reminded the Alabama senator
that it was a long standing senate
practice for senators to stand by the
decisions of their party caucus and
Senator Stone, also a member of the
committee, declared Senator I'nder
wood deserve'd severe censure for his
attitude toward the bill.
"Has the senate degenerated to a
point where the individual senators
must take orders from those' who
serve on committees because their
constitutents have kept them in the
senate for many years?" retorted
Senator Underwood. "I do not recog
nize the right of tny member to dic
tate to me. If that be treason, make
the most of it. No man can question
my lovaltv to the1 "democratic party
in victory or defeat."
Tne amendment, which would have
lowered the execution by $1,000 mak
ing the normal income tax apply to
incomes of $3,000 for married persons
and $2,0fi0 for unmarried persons, re
ceived the support of only five dem
ocratic senators. Thev were Senators
Bankhead. Hardwiek, lane, O'Gorman
,md Underwood.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PRESIDIO, Tex., Aug. 26. (Via au
to Maria, Tex.) Reports
reached here today that Mexican
bandits came across the Rio Grande
near Ruidosa, a town fifty miles up
the , river, and raided an American
ranch, driving off nineteen horses to
the other side. Troops of the' Sixth
United States cavalry and the Texas
cavalry are stationed at Ruidosa.
Newlands, "that in fixing railroad
rates the Intertsate commerce com
mission must take Into consideration
an operation expenses and an in
ham followed the transport, keeping
Admiral Helm informed. At that time
the "Blue," buttle fleet was fifteen
miles further In shore, steaming in a
crease in wages attendnnt iiunn a I line parrallel to the transport train
shortening of the railroad work day I At 8:30 the same evening the Benham
would amount to an increase in op- reported that three enemy battleships
eratiug expense." and the transport train had headed in
Regardless of the outcome of . shore to make a landing.
President Wilson's negotiations, it Admiral Helm drove his battle fleet
was indicated tnnie-ht thnt feur nf ! forward to intercept the "enemy" at
the brotherhood leaders probably
would remain here longer than Mon
day. The heads of the four brother
hoods and their vice presidents, how
Believe Aged Millionaire
Gave Wealth to Sun Cult
rtepibHcan A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, August 26. When the
federal court inquiry into the mystery
regarding the reported disappearance
of much of the wealth of Edward W.
Morrison, recluse millionaire, is re
sumed next Tuesday, the court will be
asked to lnvefVtigate a report that
among beneficiariies of Morrison's
wealth was the Mazdaznan Sun Cult.
Attorneys for the Central Trust com
pany, temporary receiver for Morrison's
affairs, said tonight tney believed that
Morrison was a member of the cult,
whose head. "Prince" Ottoman Zar
Adusiit llanish, was sent to prison
No Nearer Victory.
BERLIN, Aug. 26. (By Wireless to
Sayville). Notwithstanding the num
ber of German positions which have
been captured by the French and Brit
ish troops on the Somme front. Major
Moraht, military critic of the Tage
blatt, says the entente allies are no
nearer to breaking through the Ger-
(Continued on Page Three)
daylight. He sighted ttiti "Red' ships
at 5 o clock this morning. The trans
port train was steaming in toward the
Lone Island const rflth its destroyer
ever, nro hah v w remain indefinite-screen tripown out to souinwaru. uur-
77..,,,,: 5 WZ r Ing the night, however, the "Red" bat-
.UUi...u;U ull it. f pet nlso had come tin null s earn
ing parallel to the transports and be
tween them and the "Blue" fleet in
I terposed its"elf to iut off . Admiral
Helm's attack.
The fleets engaged promptly, but the
"Clue' position was hopeless. To cut
of the rush of he transports for the
c oast it had to swing sharply to the
west.
As the "Blue" ships came to the
turn they filed in one at a time and
caught the concentrated fire of Ad
miral Mayo's guns.
While the battle still was in progress,
Admiral Helm played his last card.
The seventeen submarines mobilized
at Black Ireland the preceding night,
! weer following the movements of the
rteu transports anu tteepuiK wen in
(Continued on Page Twelve)
Indians Ambush Soldiers
DOUGLAS, Ariz., Aug. 26. A com
mand of twenty Sonora volunteer
troops under the personal leadership
of Col. Jesus Pradillo were ambushed
by Yaqui Indians eight days ago in
a canyon at liierto De Sal, between
Ures and Magdalena, Sonora. All ex
cent the colonel are said to have been
killed.
Colonel Pradillo made his way into
Arizpe a foot and in giving an ac
count of the fight is reported to have
said that his men had no chance as
a superior force of Indians surround
ed them in such a manner as to cut
off their retreat. He escaped by
falling into a crevice in the rocks and
shamming death until the Indians had
left, it is reported.
Nafarrtte Under Arrest
BROWNSVILLE. Tex.. Aug. 26.
General Emiliano P. Nafarrate recent
ly removed bv General Carranza as
commander of the Tamaulipas divi
sion of the de factor army, has been
arrested and is being held in the
penitentiary at Mexico City charged
with the murder of Captain Gume-
condo Hernandez of the revolutionary
army in Matamoros in July ISIS ac
cording to unofficial but apparently
reliable reports reaching the border
here today.
. This is the first news of Nafarrat
te' whereabouts since he was re-
(Continued on Page Tw-elve)
w
OF GAINS DF TRE
IT THE
10
W
T
The cult, the attorneys said, was like
other organizations and individuals in
finding the aged man free with his
money.
James R. Ward, attorney, to whom
Morrison transferred downtown prop
erty worth more than a million dollars,
was deprived of rents on the property
today, when the court ordered the shore as a last line of defense. Day-
rents paid to the Central Trust. light found them within an hour or two
Morrison, although more than 80
years old, has a possible interest in
wealth totalling about 56,000,000, held
by relatives, in addition to his oWn
fortune, it was learned today. He is
heir to relatives wealth in the event
their death precedes his.
of the chosen landing point of the in
vaders. Admiral Helm ordered them
forward in a desperate effort to de
stroy the troops ships but they were not
equal to the task, and the transports
and their shielding fighting ships
steamed by victoriously.
Culberson Is
In Lead Over
Gov. Colquitt
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DALLAS, Tex., Aug. 26. Virtually
complete returns from practically all
Texas counties in the democratic sen
atorial run-off primary today gave
Senator Culberson 146,507 as against
former Governor Colquitt with 83,457.
Less than 30,000 votes remain to be
accounted for.
A notable fact from the returns re
ceived is that the former Texas gov
ernor carried practically eery German
county in the state. It was in these
sections that he received such a vote
as to enable him to catch up on the
apparently overwhelming majority
given his opponent by the larger coun
ties and cities.
While one-half the state's vote was
outstanding at 10 o'clock tonight, it
was said returns from the remaining
counties could not materially change
Senator Culberson s lead. This state
ment was based on the knowledge of
the political standing of those sections
yet to be heard from.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WITH THE BRITISH ARMY IN
FRANCE, Aug. 26. (Via London, Aug.
27.) "It was a week of gains, in the
kind of gains wre want," said a British
staff official today, reviewing the re
sult of the week's British offensive.
"A thousand yards here and there,"
the officer continued, "but every time
it has meant an advantage on Germany
we wanted for futura purposes. The
German attacks only have been counter
attacks to recover lost ground. Not
an attack we have made this week but
has been a gain. A small but effi
cient British army has never done bet
ter work than this week.
At the end of what might be called
Thiepval week the British are more
jubilant than at any time since the
offensive began, except on the occa
sion when they broke the first line,
July 1, and the second line, July 14.
They put on the old first line trenches
in front of Thiepval a record concen
tration of gun fire.
The correspondent, while watching
this curtain of shell fire, saw phleg
matic veterans as excited as school
boys in their rejoicing. Under these
curtains of fire the British by two
attacks rushed up to within 300 yards
of that patch of ruins which was once
the village of Thievpal, the corre
spondent saw the British infantry cap
ture trenches which it had taken eigh
teen months to build, and with no
more casualties than he had witnessed
in little fights in the Philippines.
Every prisoner taken who had been to
Verdun said there was nothing like it
at Verdun.
Instead of widening the front of
their offensive the British seem to be
concentrating more and more guns on
their present front. They are using
shells as freely as machine guns use
cartridges. New batteries of heavy
guns keep on arriving from England.
In order to hold Thievpal the Ger
mans, too, must bring up more guns
and try to blast the British out of
their trenches. Last night the Ger
man counter attacks were the heaviest
the Germans had made since the of
fensive began. Until this offensive it
was said that you could take any
trench at any time with gun fire
enough, but that you could not hold it
if the enemy concentrated his guns. Of
late the rule has been broken and the
British were more elated over last
night's repulse than even over their
gains around Ginchy and Guillemont
today and yesterday.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER, Colo., Aug. 26. For the
first time in his campaign Mr. Hughes
tonight named Theodore Roosevelt in
an address. The nominee was speak
ing at the auditorium here, of prepar
edness. He had assailed the admin
istration lor calling advocates of pre-
pareoness "nervous and excited. '
'And then," Mr. Hughes said, "a
stalwart American went through the
land . . . ."
He was interrupted by a roar from
the crowd. As the applause died
down, the nominee continued:
"Mr. Roosevelt went through the
land," he continued, "arousing the
nation to its need; and the admin
istration changed its mind over
night."
The audience, which crowded the
big auditorium with hundreds stand
ing in the aisles, applauded loudly.
Mr. Hughes, in his address outlined
the policy for which he stands.
"I stand for the firm and unflinch
ing maintenance ' of the rights of
American citizens through the world,"
he said. "That is a vital question.
"We should maintain these rights
about which there is no cavil with
the strongest nations of the world,
no matter which nations they are.
American rights, understood, upheld,
will give us peace, prosperity and
good will.
"I believe that we as a nation
should be prepares for any emer
gency. That is not militarism. You
could not carry a corporal's guard for
militarism you could carry the whole
country for adequate preparedness."
T stand for a business-like admin
istration of government and for the
employment in public life of men
qualified by training and fitness of
public office."
Mr. Hughes reiterated his deriara- .
tion for a world court. He devoted
some time to his declaration for a
protective tariff.
Mr. Hughes left at midnight for
Este's Park where he will remain
resting until next Thursday.
The nominee today told business
men of Denver at a luncheon at the
Mile High club that American enter
prises stood face to face with a new
era of which the watchwords were
cooperation and efficiency; that cap
ital and labor "are our two hands."
both of which must be used intelli
gently and with cooperation in the
years to come to make "America first
and America efficient."
Patriotism, the nominee declared,
needed to be directed a little differ
ently in the future than" it had been
in the past. A sense of patriotism
was needed in public business, he
said, for the United States, as "the
greatest corporation on earth, on its
business side," was entitled "to be as
well managed as any corporation on
earth," and to the full worth of ife
every dollar spent in administration.
The business men of America, Mr.
Hughes said, "we're in his opinion,
patriotic, broad, sound in their views
and ambitions. The day of building
private citadels along the highway of
commerce, bv which the "ordinary
travelers" could be held up and maJa
to pay tribute, he thought had past.
There had been, Mr. Hughes said, a
new consciousness as to what is due
the' public with respect to public
rights and privileges and because of
that he looked confidently to the fu
ture, where otherwise he would look
with "deep dismay."
Mr. Hughes reached Denver shortly
before noon to the accompaniment of
a welcome of brass bands, giant fire
crackers, and cheers from thousands
of persons who gathered at the sta
tion and along the streets through
which he passed. The nominee was
feeling better than he had felt for days
and showed only a trace of fatigue.
Headed by a squad of mounted po
lice and brass bands, the nominee and
his party paraded through the business
section of the city before going to their
hotel. The line of flag-bedecked auto
mobiles extended for blocks. Giant
firecrackers were fired as a salute
along the line of march.
After a few minutes' rest at his
hotel. Hughes went to the luncheon of
the Mile High club, where he made an
address.
Speaks at Greeley
GREELEY, August 26. Charles Ev
ans Hughes, republican nominee for
president, was formally welcomed to
Colorado here today by a committee
of republicans headed by Dr. Hubert
Work of Pueblo, national committee
man. Conferences with party leaders were
followed by a public reception at nine
(Continued on Page Three)
Col. Jose De Luna Arrested
For Neutrality Violation
Pterublican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Tex., Aug. 26. Col. Jose
De Luna, a graduate of the Mexican
National Military School at Chapul
tepec and formerly a commander in the
Mexican federal army, is detained by
the United States authorities here on
the cahrge of violation of neutrality,
it was learned here. tonight
According to reports received by
General Gonzales, Colonel De Luna had
joined the few followers of Manuel
Ochoa, the former Villista general,
who crossed the Rio ,Grande last
Thursday near Guadalupe, 30 miles be
low here. Ochoa and three men were
covered and captured by Mexican cus
toms patrols, but De Luna managed to
elude the patrols and got back to
American soil, where he was later ar
rested by United States secret service
men.
When Ochoa killed a Carrancista
guard in making a dash for liberty, one
of his. followers was captured. This
man, said General Gonzales, is now
being escorted to Juarez for safe-keeping
until removed to Chihuahua City
for trial. Carrancista regulars are still
on the trail of the fugitives.
'1
