l"f-"-
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
Icuemn
NIGHT
EXTRA
If VOL. Il-SO. 121
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 19 1G.
Cortnioiii, told, bt the Venue Lkdom ConriNi.
PRICE ONE CENT
'Wli jiuHWgBgC"!8y
w
a ;
j r
If
HCKl
ALLIED AIR FLEET RAIDS
GERMAN MILITARY BASE
AT GHENT, BELGIANS SAY
LTwenty - seven Aero
planes Attack Big In
land City Held by
Foe
'Berlin Reports Zeppelins Swept
Across England irom xar
mouth to Liverpool, Bpm
barding Industrial Cities and
Inflicting Heavy Damage
: Factories at Manchester, Sheffield and
Nottingham, Also Docks on North
Sea and Mersey, Shelled by Raid
ers, Says Official Berlin Report.
' 54 Killed, G7 Injured
I ' AMSTERDAM, Feb. 2.
' Twenty-seven allied aeroplanes have
' attacked Ghent. Belgium, according to
' the Echo do Bolgo. Ghent Is nn Impor
tant distributing Point of tho German
army. , , . .
More than GO shots wero fired by Dutch
pinners at a Zeppelin which wan sighted
today flying low over Amelnnd Island In
the North Seal. Some aro believed to have
hit the Zeppelin, which had evidently lost
- Its way In tho Tog.
BERLIN. Feb. 2.
Sweeping across tho great Industrial
section of England, from Yarmouth on the
North Sea to Liverpool, and bombarding
both of theso places as well as Sheffield,
Nottingham and Manchester, was tho feat
performed by tho fleet of Zeppelins which
took a toll of B4 killed and 07 injured In
addition to causing enormous damago
shortly after midnight yesterday. '
Tho German Admiralty's report Is as
follows:
"A German squadron during tho night
of January 3t-Fcbruary 1 dropped a largo
number of Incendiary bombs on and near
the Liverpool and Birkenhead docks,
harbor and factories; also on tho Man
chester Iron works and Black Blast fur
naces, and on tho Nottingham and Shef
field factories and blast furnnces, and
finally, on a largo number of Industrial
establishments on the Humbor and near
Great Yarmouth (Norfolk). At all theso
places a powerful effect was observed
from heavy explosions and most serious
fires. On tho number ono battery was
silenced.
"Tho airships wero heavily fired upon
from all points, but wero r.ot hit. All tho
airships. In bpUo of tho enemy's efforts,
returned In safety."
T.nvnnv. Vnh. 2.
Gentian -Zeppelins, liVtficir great raid
en England Monday night, groped their
way"7 blindly with no exact knowledge of
their whereabouts, and throw bombs aim
lessly, tho London newspapers asserted
today,.
The Dally Chronicle declared thero was
no truth In the Berlin roport that tho big
English Industrial centres of Liverpool,
Manchester, Sheffield. Birkenhead, Not
tingham and Great Yarmouth wero at
tacked from tho sky.
"Tho recklessness of the Zeppelin oper
ations Is sufficiently Illustrated by tho
German wireless, which shows that tho
raiding airships had scarcely nny Idea
where they really wero," said the Chron
icle. "None of tho localities mentioned
by tho Germans wero mentioned In tho
Bngllsh official report of tho raid, for tho
simple reason that they wero not raided.
The German account Is widely untruo In
every particular."
A Paris dispatch today, containing ad
ditional details of tho Zeppelin bombard
'ment Saturday night, reported that SO
persons, imprisoned by falling debris dur
ing the bombardment, wero only released
yesterday after gangs of workmen had
dug at the wreckage for 60 hours. Mean
while food and water was supplied them
inrougn apertures In tho pllo of debris.
A Zeppelin airship which raided Paris
was damaged so badly by flro from
French aeroplanes that It was forced to
descend at Laon, says nn unconfirmed
.(dispatch from Amsterdam today.
Two official communications wero given
out on tho Zeppelin raid. These state
that six countries were visited, 51 persons
killed and 67 Injured, according to tho
last reports.
The first statement issued was as fol
lows; The air raid last night was attempted
on an extensive scale. It appears that
the raiders wero hampered by a thick
wist. After crossing the coast tho
Zeppelins steered various courses and
dropped bombs at several towns and
In rural districts in Derbyshire. Leices
tershire, Lincolnshire und Stafford
shire, Some damago to property was
caused, No accurate reports wero re
ceived until a very late hour.
The, casualties notified up to the time
I
Continued on Page live. Column One
THE WEATHER
''Somewhere," the poet once sang, just
.,? f8 lney threw liim downstairs, "the
"n la, shining." Jt wasn't that It wasn't
i elt was desperately trueand that
Jf""8 reason ho later got 30 days in
- l House of Correction. But because It
" trite. That was where ho erred; It
aa entirely too true. For that reason
. Ji W evident that there Is a different in-
wpretatlon of the groundhog's experi-
8ine X?uiy '" very town and hamlet,
W 'he sun has to shine somewhere,
. , OOylOUfily finmntvhnro thA ffnnnimD. ,.at
e nis shadow, and thereby foreshadow
ft. fh,!learlr sPrlnB But wo protest against
, uiionciium.-. no ougnt to ao what
iwfweather ma1 doesi which Is to em
woy a lot of delllate instruments, charts
uv. i a'3natel.es, theories and statistics,
UU then tni.Ua tin lnnn.Mnf ..
after nil . i.w,v tuieiaai
Ut, at least, hn tvr.nirt feA ti.ian(inn
. .., ,. ,. wh.V. fU w.W.l.f.
FORECAST
For
Philadelphia and
vicinity
SnOW and hUbI tntlinht ,l ,.,,. I.I..
ihureday; fresh northeast winds.
w 7. V" i. l-,.?'.L.r'Y"'''ii
vr ueiaus see page 15,
LOST AND rOUND
?f5?.,N!S-:J:0l. Feb. 1. or. Chestnut t.. In
QW, Dflfi . T not u-..nn .l.hl. hADI JZ ...11.
f Sfubu w i.."1 wum WV vuH UVHi e
iSnC.buU,i. 'and about " Inches hlgb.
OSlSP. U&eral reward. 1118 Vine. Loc 1113.
8Bj7."s ir-.! -..
ism fciaTL ft.J?rf"rfv?ir J"4?1' jsu,tt
.l&ftrfied a j s nMnii js. r i V ?,t.,.
j-u ' ' Ll ' i i i in i i e. i nwvnpnfVHmt
i in r mirrjt vt mrmr s.ihmiuiu,
R HaUnum: a
pi' rfturood
Mfe.,nt6tmi 8t
Sky Now Arena of War
for Combatant Europe
Predictions of scientists nnd ex
perts on wnr are being verified by
events in western Europe. Tho
lines of battle are virtually at a
standstill nnd have been for
months. With the combatants in
trenched from Switzerland to the
sen, along nn unchanging and ap
parently unchangeable line, the
warring nations seem to bo trans
ferring thcir'clTectivo hostilities to
the air, where trenches cannot bo
dug and where there still remains
possibility of maneuver and
strategy.
Startling and spectncular battles
are becoming the daily features of
war history.
Tho foresight of such thinkers
nnd writers as H.'G. Wells is being
vindicated by events.
BERLIN MAKES
CONCESSIONS IN
LUS1TAN1A CASE
New Instructions Sent to
Bernstorff Believe Set
tlement Will Be Reached
ADMIT BREAK WAS NEAR
BERLIN, Fob. 2.
Tho German Foreign Office today trans
mitted to Ambassador Bernstorff nt
Washington Instructions "which glvo rea
sonable hopo for a positive understand
ing" on tho Lusltnnla question, it was
announced today.
Although It Is admitted that diplomatic
relations, between Germany and tho
United States havo been perilously near
a rupture, it la now believed that tho
Lusltanla case will be amicably adjusted.
Tho statement was Issued becnuso of
alarming reports from English sources
regarding tho present nature of German
American relations because of tho Lusl
tanla controversy.
"It Is true," said tho statement, "that
on last Saturday tho Gorman Ambassador
cabled nls Government that ho had found
It thus far Impossible to adjust tho Lusl
tanla case In a manner satisfactory to
both sides by a friendly and verbal cx
chnngo of views.
"Today Instructions wero transmitted
to tho German Ambassador which glvo
reasonnblo hopo for a positive, under
standing." The Indication Is that tho handling of
tho Lusltanla cn,so was taken out of the
hands of Ambassador von Bernstorff and
that the present negotiations aro being
carried out directly between tho Foreign
Olllco of tho Imperial German. Government
and tho State Department at Washington.
RAILROADS CALL EMPLOYES'
DEMANDS UNREASONABLE
Bitter Fight in Prospect Unless Work
ers Agree to Arbitration
CHICAGO, Fob. .-Declaring the rail
way employes' demands for an eight
hour day nnd Increased pay for overtime
aro unreasonable nnd cannot bo consid
ered, tho Executive Committee of the
Association of Western Hallways today
Indicated a fight to tho last ditch Is In
prospect If tho employes rofuso to arbi
trate. While employes have pot yet completed
their referendum voto on tho wage de
mands, according to tho most recent an
nouncement from Grand Chief Warren
Stone, of tho Brotherhood of Locomotive
Engineers, tho employers havo little doubt
that tho voto will approve tho demands.
Tho Western Assoclmion announced to
day that the 'demnnds would cntnll an In
crease In pay of approximately $100,000,000
a year an Increase of 25 per cent. This,
It was announced, "Is of such magnitude
that It cannot even bo considered with tho
present level of passenger and freight
rates,"
Packet Doat Afire in Dock
TOINT PLEASANT, W. Va., Feb. 2.
The packctboat Lorena In tho Pltts-burgh-Galllpolls
trade is burning in her
dock hpro. She caught flro from an over
heated stovo and will bo a total loss.
Tho Lorena la valued at $20,009.
AZIOM D'ARTJGLMUA
INVALDIC0RDEV0LE
La Rumania Interverra' Tra Un
Mesp Contro la Coalizione
Teutonico-Bulgara
11 Mlnlstero Itallano della Ouerra ha
pubbllcnto il seguente comunlcato uffl
clalo ierlsera:
"Nell'alta vallo del Cordevole si sono
avute vl lentl azloul dl artlgllcrla nella
zona dl Pjove dl Llvinallongo.
"Nella zona della wonca dl Plezzo rl
parti nemlcl che cercavano dl avvicinarsl
alia nostra poslzlonl sono stati resplatl
a sud dl Monte Ilomboii.
"Sul fronte dell'Isonzo J'artlgllcrla no
mica ha fatto plovera granate sulla sta
zlone ferrovlarla dl Cormons e sulla
ramnacua dl Mortaro, o vl furono al-
cune vlttlme nella poplazlone civile."
Notlzle da noma dlcono cia la Rumania
ha Vlrtualmente deplso dl Intervenlra
nella guerra a ftanco ella Quadrupllce
Intesa. Easa entrerebbo In guerra nel
prosslmo mese dl marzo.
Apcrta ll 10 Oennalo, la eottoscrlztone
al nuovo prestlto dl guerra itallano ha
dato tlnora oltre duo mlllardl dl lire e si
aspetta che prima che sla chlusa 11 10
corrento dla pocomeno dl un altro
mill&rdo.
(Leggera In Ba paglna la ultima e plu'
dettagllata notlzia sulla guerra. In
itallano.)
Four Dead, 15 Injured, in Paris Wreck
PARIS. Feb. 2. Four persons were
kilted and u injured when an express
.train from Calais was derailed In tha St.
Panto Railway station near rrjs ov.
ertu cars sausht flret
LINER APPAM AS SHE APPEARS
' ' ? tfttftl v
"- - ; ' ' i fniAw
m 6 O 5L Jj&
ANTI-HYPHEN IDEA
SEIZED BY GREAT
COMPANIES HERE
Disston and Stetson Con-,
cerns Adopt Newv"Amer- '
ican" Plan I
EMPLOY 8000 WORKMEN i
Unqualified Indorsement of tho "Pack- !
nrd anti-hyphen" plan was given today by
tho two largest manufacturing concerns ,
of their rcspectlvo types In tho world, with
tho added assuranco by ono of them that I
tho economic prcssuro which Is expected
to mold new citizens In all probability .
will bo adopted.
Tho companies are: '
HENRY DISSTON & SONS, INC.,
proprietors of tho Keystone Saw,
Tool and FHo Works, at Tacony. the
largeBt In tho world.
THE JOHN H. STETSON COM
PANY, Kth street and Montgomery
avenue, operating tho largest Ifat fac
tories In tho world.
A total of more than 1000 employes Is
on tho payroll of tho two companies. lend
ing national significance to tho announce
ments. DISSTONS" IN LINE.
An enthusiastic reception at tho Disston
plant greeted tho news that tho Packard
Company had decided to bar from its em
ployment all unnaturalized citizens. In
an effort to put a premium on American
citizenship. That tho ndvlsablllty of fol
lowing suit would bo thoroughly discussed
by tho Dlsstou nfliclals was tho statement
of William D. Disston, vlco president of
the company, who heartily Indorsed tho
plan.
"I hhall confer with my associates as to
tho advisability of following tho prece
dent established by tho Packard Motor
Car Company," said Mr. Disston.
"Speaking for tho company," he conV
tinned, "I am convinced that tho action
was a most excellent one. Theso nllcns
ronie to our shores and makoithclr living
from tho institutions which form nn In
tegral part of this country. Thero Is no
reason In tho world that. If they remain
hero with their families and benefit from
tho advantages ,whlch they receive In tho
United States, they should not becomo
loyal citizens of their adopted country.
"I believe that tho action of tho Pack
ard company. If followed by other con
cerns throughout the nation, would re
sult In much good. It will do away with
much Inward disturbance and will re
move tho "hyphen from America."
About S60O "hands" aro employed at tho
Disston works, and of theso only a small
percentage aro foreign-born, unnatural
ized citizens.
STETSONS ENDORSE PLAN.
J. Howell Cummlngs, president of tha
John II. Stetson Hat Company. In en
dorsing tho Packard plan, said that he
Continued on 1'age Two, Column Ono
$50,000 FIRE SWEEPS
WHITE SMELTING PLANT
Fire Apparatus Mired as
Flames Destroy Building.
200 Jobless
A 150,000 flro early today threatened
to destroy tha entire plant of White &
Pro., Inc., smelters and refiners, at Hedley
and Carbon streets, whlla flro engines
were mired In foot-deep mud.
Tho flames were confined to ono of the
14 buildings In tho group, but that build
ins, the smelting and refining shop, the
largest of all, crumbled rapidly under the
flro, with spectacular crabliea of E0-foot
smokestacks that sent sparks flying high
Into tho air. The reflection of tho 'blazo
was seen for miles. Nothing remained
standing of the three-story building except
tno six largo mrnaces, wnicn cracked
under tho terrific heat.
Thlrty-flvo men, the night shift, were In
the building at 6:30 o'clock this morning
When tha tire started In the men's locker
room. They were soon driven from tho
shop, after futile efforts to check the
blaze. Fire engines which responded to
tha alarm wero delayed by a long stretch
of muddy thoroughfare, and when they
did arrive tha absence of fireplugs forced
them to pump ditch water Into tha
name's.
Two hundred men were thrown out of
work by the Are, the origin of which Is
unknown. Clarence "White, a member of
the firm, denied reports that tho metal
was being smelted for war orders.
Because of a strike at tha plant two
weeks ago tha men were working in con
tinuous shifts to eaten up In deliveries,
or ordf- The lua la covered by In-
Byratwe, Mr. vait satd.
Thorns tjy n. T. Griffith, from Underwood S.
Umlcrwocxi.
The picture above shows mem
bers of tho German prize crew
nnd some of the passengers on
the forward deck of the capturexl
liner. Below is Lieutenant Bcrge,
who brought tho vessel into port.
GERMANY TO ASK
APPAM'S RELEASE
BY PACT OF 1799
Treaty, by 1828 Amend
ment, Gives Right of Shel
ter to Prizes of War
LANSING STUDIES POINT
WASIIINOTON. Feb. 2.
That tho treaty between tho United
Stntcs and Prussia, ratified in 1703 and
amended In 1825, gives tho United States
and Germnny tho right to bring their
prizes of war Into each other's potts was
tho contention set up In German circles
hero today to justify tho bringing Into
Norfolk harbor of the Urltlsh steamship
Appam.
Tho attention of the State Department
has unofficially been called to this treaty,
and Secretary Lansing will bo nsked to
rule that the Appam la a legal prize of
the German Navy and entitled to remain
In Norfolk harbor as long as Germany
desires to keep her thero.
Secretary Lansing said that tho pro
visions of tho treaty might apply If It Is
finally decided that tho Appam is a prize.
TREATY COVERS "PRIZES."
Tho original treaty of 1799 between
Prussia and the United States, dealing
with "lawful prizes," contained a clauso
which pxempted tho commerce of Great
Britain from Its operations. This ex
emption, however, was entirely eliminat
ed by tho amended treaty ratified be
tween the two nations in IKS. Part of
this treaty has entered Into the negotia
tions between the United States and Go--many
In tho case of the American ship
Fryo, sunk by a German auxiliary
cruiser, and there has been a difference
of opinion regarding interpretation of
some of tho clauses.
Secretary Lansing, however, Intimated
today that he did not Dellovo thero was
any serious question regarding the in
terpretation of Artlclo 19, which Is the
ono In question. The1 Secretary will care
fully consider the provisions of this treaty
before reaching any final decision regard
ing the status of the Appam. It already
has Deen indicated, however, that there
is real doubt in the minds of tho State
Department's legal experts aa to whether
the Appam in reality was not a German
naval auxiliary. She "stood by" when
the Moewo sent the Clan MacTavIsh to
the bottom and was used to send into
port the crews of the liners that fell -victim
to the Moewe. This action has raised
(he status question, and made It a really
serious one jor mis uovernmeni lo seme.
NORFOLK OFFICIAIS REPORT.
Colector Hamilton, at Norfolk, made a
supplemental report on the Appam to
the Treasury Department. His report
contained a brief account of the fight at
sea between the Moewo and the Clan
MacTavIsh. Details, he said, were lack
ing, but from what he could learn, the
MacTavIsh put up a brilliant defense
and was sunk only after a 10-mlle chase.
Members of the MacTavIsh crew, badly
wounded, were picked up out of the
water by the Mqwe's crew, and now are
aboard the Appam, he stated.
Collector Hamilton's report contained
an expression of doubt as to whether the
Moewe really Is the vessel which sank
seven British vessels In 10 days and still
roams the sea under guise of & British
Cmtloue4 on yge RTe, Column TUrt
AT NORFOLK
HALF THOUSAND
'REBELS' MARCH
ON SCHOOL HEAD
Dr. Garber Paces Double
Barreled Attack by Ger
mantown Schoolboys
"POP" SOWDEN OR SUIT
Nearly all the 500 strikers at, the
Fitlcr School, in Gcrmanlown, boarded
trolley cars in front of the school
this afternoon and started downtown.
Their first destination is Superin
tendent Garber's office. After they
finish with him they are going to
Room 265, City Hall, to see what the
Elementary Schools Committee has to
say about the withdrawal of Prin
cipal William II. Sowden from the
Filler School. They say they arc
going to order Doctor Garber to re
store Doctor Sowden or else, they will
tell him, they won't return to school.
Each pupil has a letter from his
mother or father, excusing him from
attending school and indorsing the
plea for Doctor Sowden's return.
Superintendent of Schools John P. Gar
ber Is marshaling his defenses to receive
late this afternoon a double-barreled at
tack from Germantown.
Flvo hundred pupils nro on strlko at
tho Edwin H. Fitlcr School, Knox and
Seymour streets. They aro going to
march on Doctor Garber with an ulti
matum. Tho parents of theso WW pupils are go
ing to march on Doctor Uarbcr with a
proposal.
Tho ultimatum will- be:
Glvo us back "Pop" Sowden ns
principal or we'll never come back
to school.
Tho proposal will bo:
Restore William II. Sowden to tho
principalshlp of tho Fltier School 'or
we'll Hie a suit In equity In the Com
mon Pleas Court and mako you do It.
Tho strlko started yesterday, and
mildly. By this morning It had reached
the proportions of a "movement"; by this
afternoon It had becomo a riot.
In all tho sleet and snow and grlppy
dampness of this morning the hnlf a
thousand strikers, aided and encouraged
by their parents, stood In rront of the
school and stirred up strife. They pro
claimed their lovo for but one "Pop"
Sowden but their revllcmcnt had no
bounds. The Superintendent, tho board
and tho whole school system was knocked
to a fare-you-well during tho whllo that
theso boy and girl strikers paraded their
protest, mado speeches about it, hooted,
cat-called and what not!
Across tho street a cloud of umbrellas
bespoke tho collection of fathers and
n. others who had, come partly to enjoy
tho revolutionary procedure of their hope
fuls, partly to urgo them on. For this is
no mere children's strike. They are only
the participators. The parents are tho
brains behind them.
The whole trouble wa3 born In Super
intendent Garber's announcement that
Principal Sowden was to be removed from
Continued on I'ure Tno, Column Two
14 DIE IN EXPLOSION
WHICH WRECKS BOAT
Bdiler Blows Up on Mononga-
hela River Craft Twenty
Are Saved
HUNTINGTON, W. Va., Feb. 2.-Four-tcen
persons were hilled today when the
towboat Sam Brown, of the Monongahela
River Consolidated Coke and Coal Com
pany, was destroyed by a boiler explosion
several miles south of here.
Tho boat carried a crew of 31. Twenty
survivors were picked up by small boats.
One body has been recovered.
All of the chief officers of the Sam
Brown were from Pittsburgh, but most
of the members of the crew were from
West Virginia and Ohio points.
$100,000 Silk Company Formed
The Eagle Rock Silk Company was in
corporated today In Camden, with $100,
000 capital, to engage in the business of
manufacturing and selling silk. The in
corporators are J. M- Potts,. J. V, Tattam
and Edward T- Curry
1 Charcot, Explorer, Seriously HI
PARIS, Feb. S-Dr. Jean Charcot, ah
Antarctic explorer. Is seriously ill,
QUICK
17 KILLED AT SALONICA BY TEUTON AIR RAIDERS
WASHINGTON, Feb. 2. ohn E. Kelil, American Consul at Sa
lonica, Greece, cabled the State Department this afternoon that 17
persons were killed, 15 were wounded and -property damage to the
extent of 3,000,000 frnns (about 000,000) wasvdone to the city
yesterday by a German air raid. The American Consular quarters,
he cabled, were uuharmed.
HEIR TO TURKISH THRONE REPORTED A SUICIDE
LONDON, Tcb. 2. A Keuter dispatch from Constantinople states
that the heir apparent to the Turkish throne( Prince Yussuf Izzedden,
has committed suicide by opening his arteries. Prince Yussuf Izzcd
dcu, a ton of Abdul Aziz, was bom October 0, 1SD7.
FRENCH CAPTURE PART OP U-BOAT'S CREW
LONDON, Fco. 2. SIn members of the crew of a German submarino wero
captured by a Fri-iuh destroyer Just outsldo Salonioa Quit In a most unusual
manner, Salnnlca ilis'mh lies reported today. A submarino nttacked an Eng
lish cargobout wn! h had been disabled by on accident to her machinery. A
Ktimll boat, with n (ierirtan officer nnd llvo men, put off from the U-boat,
nnd llie were aeai filing the cargnboat when a destroyer boro down. Tho
submarine was cmpcllcri to Hiibmcrgo so quickly she could not wait for tho
sailors on tho cnrgcboul.
FIRE CRIPPLES ARMS COMPANY SUPPLYING BRITISH
I'TICA, Is. Y., Feb. 2. A lire of mysterious origin destroyed largo lumber
sheds belonging to the Savage Anns Company early today and for a tlmo.
threatened to spread to other buildings of tho company's big plant. Tho blazo
was discovered by a watchman and was brought under control after a two-hour
fight. The Havage Anns Company Is engaged on extensive contracts for tho
British Government and the rumor that some employe with German sym
pathies may havo started tho lire is being investigated.
COAL AND BRASS COMPANIES RAISE WAGES
i I'ltklENSBUHG, Pa., Fell. 2. The Jamison Coal and Coko Company has
j granted a 10 per cent. Increase to tho employes In every department, effective
today. Tho Kelly & Jones Brass Company has granted a similar raise to all of
Us employes.
REBELS FIGHT AS THEY MARCH ON PEKIN
BERLIN, Feb. 2. So widespread lias become tho anti-government uprising
in Yun-nan province that 80,000 troops hnvo been sent thero by Yuan
Shl-Kal. Chinese regulars aro reported to have engaged in battlo tho 2000
Mongolian rebels who aro marching on Pekin.
Yun-nan province Is in tho cxtiemo southwest of China and lias a popula
tion of 12,000,000.
LONDON, Feb. 2. Tho Mongolian Insurgents havo crossed tho Great Wall
of China and an ndvnnco guard of 2000 Is besieging tho city of Datumfa, accord
ing to a dispatch from Mukden. Dispatches from Mukden report that the Mon
golian Insurgents had been heavily reinforced nnd were marching toward Pekin.
The city of Datumfa may bo Tatungfu. a city In Shansl Province, which 'borders
Mongolia to the south, 170 miles west of Pckln.
VILLISTAS WRECK RAILWAY TO JUAREZ
EL PASO, -Feb. "2. Railway-communication between El Paso and Chihuahua
City has been cut, SO miles south of Juarez, by followers of Francisco Villa.
Thero are 2000 Carranzlsta soldiers In Chihuahua City and 700 in Juarez, but
so far they have made no move against tho Vllllstas.
EIGHT DROWNED, $10,000,000 LOST IN FLOODS
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Fob. 2. Eight lives lost and property loss to the ex
tent of perhaps 510.000,000 was tho result today of the floods that swept sec
tions of Arkansas, Mississippi and Kentucky. Hundreds of livestock were
drowned. Thero is much suffering among thousands of people rendered
homeless.
RIOTS THREATEN
LISBON, I-eb. 2. A dangerous revolutionary outbreak occurred today. An
attempt was made to assassinate Scnor
Justice, but tho shots fired at him missed. Tho residence of the President of
the republic was set on fire. Troops have been called out to quell rioting.
RUSSIAN PREMIER QUITS, IS REPORT
LONDON, Feb. 2. No ofllclal confirmation has como from Fetrograd ot
tho report that Premier Goremykln has resigned on account of ill health, but
well-Informed diplomats satd-today that tho report was probably true. It was
stated that B. V. Stuermer, aTScmber of the Council of tho Empire, has suc
ceeded him.
Premier Goremykin's appointment in 1914 was a victory for tho RusslanV
reactionaries, who had been opposing tho efforts of the Duma to obtain a
larger degree of popular control of tho Government. Berlin papers have re
ceived reports recently of bitter clashes .between the Russian Prime-.MInister
and his critics in tno Duma, who have accused him of responsibility for tho
munitions shortage.
BRITISH POLO PLAYER KILLED IN ACTION
NEW YORK, Feb. 2. Captain Cyril M. Home, of tho British army, known
In this country as a polo player and actor, was killed In action on January 27,
according to a cablo messago received nt tho University Club. Captain Home,
after serving as a lieutenant in India and malting an international reputation
as a polo player, turned to tho stage, whoro ho is 'best remembered as appear
ing In "Little Boy Blue" and "Officer 666." Ho re-enllsted last March and waa
immediately sent to tho front in the British expeditionary corps.
ATTACK ON FRENCH CABINET FAILS
PARIS, Feb, 2. Tho Chamber of Deputies voted yesterday by a show of
hands confidence in tho Government. Tho question was put after a debate on
an order issued by General Gallleni, tho War Minister, prohibiting soldiers from
entering liquor establishments at Marseilles between the hours of 8 a. m. and
6 p. m. Several Deputies voiced objections to this regulation. The disturbance,
became so great that General Gallleni could not mako himself heard, and, gath
ering up his papers, ho descended from the tribune and prepared to leave the
chamber.
U-BOATS ACTIVE IN GREEK WATERS
LONDON, Feb. 2. An undated dispatch from Athens to the Dally Mail
sent by way of Messina, referring to the recent denial made by King Can.
Etantlne In an interview that German submarines were being harbored by
Greece and wero operating In Greek waters, cites the instances of a British
transport torpedoed by a submarine off Salonica and a mail boat stopped off
Zante. The correspondent adds; "There havo been nearly 40 such Incidents
among the Greek bays and islands and capes. The submarines Jn every cse
were definitely recognized as Austro-German, It is common knowledge that
the Cerigo Channel (between Cythera and Anticythera) and other channel
are used by tho submarines as highways."
16 BRITISH SHIPS, 412 LIVES, LOST IN JANUARY
LONDON, Feb, 2. The otllcial returns for January show that three sailing
vessels totaling 163 tons and 10 Bteamers, with 'a total tonnage of 31,481 tons,
wero sunk by enemy warships In the month of January, with a loss of 410
Jives. . Three steamers, with an aggregate tonnage of 3S57, were sunk by mines,
with the loss of two lives. N
FOURTH ITALIAN SHIP CONVEYING GUNS ARJVEtf
NEW YORK, Feb. 2. Two three-inch guns are mounted on the boa. decfe-1
of the Uoyd Itallano steamer Caserta, which has reached port from Gbucj an4
Naples. A gun crew of seven men. placed on board by the JtalaB Gqvrnrnfttf
has charge qf the weapons. As (n the case of three ofher Italian Jrme4 mr
chantmen which have arrived here within six weeks, tfte Saserta cass will be
taken up with the State Department,
NEWS
PORTUGAL CAPITAL
Catarho do Menescs, tho Minister o,C
HI
I f I
I
1. . ,
mt n
..Mctfor
:$SC'".
"S CTf -. -
&M
WffMWMi.Sf
- .V: -12mff&1
wiffmmmMSrwm
