1
RIGHT HERE
IN RICHMOND
Every Metropolitan Advantage for
Newcomers?.See T.-D. Wants.
ivictimoud dnncjS-Hispatri)
RIGHT HERE
IN RICHMOND
Attractive Homes for Sale or to Lei.
?ec T.-D Want Pages
66th YEAR
voi.fMi: on
M MIIKH 32
RICHMOND, VA., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 191(5.?TWELVE PAGES
?m?V?o,ku ?COLDER
PRICE, 2 CENTS
BRITISH LINER, PRIZE OF GERMAN RAIDER,
BROUGHT BY CAPTORS TO HAMPTON ROADS
Country Must Be Prepared
for Dangers Which Con
stantly Threaten It.
WILSON. IN MIDDLE WEST.
TELLS OF DAILY PERILS
Titanic Difficulty of Preserving
Peace Cannot Now Be
Disclosed.
KNOWS PKOPI.K HACK OK HIM
Denounces Mon Who Continually c;?>
About Actually Preach
ing War.
l'K.S MOINKH, IOWA. K">?t :ar- "
President Wilson, in addressing the
liir?? *t audience of hi" present t?V.
It. which he is advocating preparedness,
here to-night asked this question: "L>o
you want th- situation to be such that
nil the IT. y :?!' 1.1 can <!o > l" writ"
ir.'-'.va t? s an?l_ utter words of protest'"'
??Why. to a*k that question Is to
aiifvi - it," he s ?-*1.
??Whenever Int'rnatioi .1! law :* vio
lated by one or the oth-r helllg- rents
the President. said, "America was called
upon to register u 'voice of protest, of
Insist' no?.'
KI.A'i CAWOT HI
siai.m:i> W H H IM 1*1 It If V
??no you want the situation to be
Bueh that all the President van do is
write ni'-syag-.-n and '?tt<? r words <>t
protest? If th< <? hreacl.cn ?>? inter -
natlonul law. ?!- li are In dally dan
ger of occurring, -^uM touch the very
honor of the. Unit-d .Statr:,. >10 you wifh
to do nothing about it'.' Ho you wish
to have all the world say that the ling
of the United States can he stained with
In.i ? vinityV Why, t-> a-k this .j-iesUon if
to answer It.
"I itnoiv there i? 1:0 man or woman
wi'Mn the hearing <f uy voice who
w- Id wish ;at the exper.se of the
h'uvr of the Unlt-d States.'
Th? President's address was p'.inct 1
fl'. ) with th.iiid. ri.-.: applause Ho
K-ftko fb.wlv a *..l g> ' ? ??'? . wit ii etn
pl.:itl<; gee: i -? ' if 01 re h!s words
H,.-s declaration that :i,e I'nii'-d .States
wanted pe?'' ? drew n qulek rerponfe.
a: d hi^ assert' ' t. at the. self-respect
,,f t / ?.:!??: :::? st he preserved elicited
aroth'-r irreat demonstration. A throng
1 I, , ? fillerl (Vf j y feat In the Coliseum
(?>.. 11. ?! him to t he < ? ? ?>
Iv NOW - < Ol \TltY Wll.l.
.HAINTAIN ITS IIOVOIl
??.?.. id many a niirht \\ 11ti It lias
F(. Impossible for me t.? sleep ' he
?.in. ??!<???.;..-? of th< apparent!} In
r\tri--.\''b into which our
International r lat!->ns w.;. drifting. I
11) t'.: s.'lf. 'I u ? ?.'!? r If the
J,. of the Ui.lt- d St f-ill? know
what that mandate meat:;- I" me' And
tj,f sleep !ms r..me: b--eaI knew
ti: it there w is no community In Amer
ica that would not stand behind me in
maintaining th? liotior of the United
Statejs.
"Tl'.o difllculty of keeping America
at peace during this titanic struggle
the sea cannot t>e disclosed now;
perhaps it 1 ? ver ? an he disclosed.
How anxious and how difficult this
ta.-^k has been! Hut my heart has he n
In i I have not grudced a sinirlo
burden Ih ?! h:is In ? n placed upon me
with that en<l 11 view, l-'ov 1 know that
1 mI only my own heart, but the heart
of all Arneti.a. was in the caus. of
pf a> e."
"The:e are nclually men it: America
who are preaching war." the President
declared; "men who want the United
to have entangling alliances
Abroad." Tie. said lie did not think
the" spoke the voit <? of America, which
he declared to be for peace.
< A N\OT III-: A s OSTIIU II
WITII ITS IIKAII IN S.tM?
"America cannot he an ostrich with
l?s head in the sand." he said. f
The President declared he hoped ihnt
if this war had 110 other result, it
would create an international tribunal
to settle questions which might cause
war His declaration that he had found
the people of tho Middle West for pre
paredness drew long applause.
The president closed with a tribute
to tho American flag.
?As 1 look at that Hag." he said.
i.j ?,<oin to see many characters upon
M which are not visible to the physical
ovc There seem to move ghostly
visi"!".'' of devoted men who, looking
to that Hag. thought only of liberty,
of the rights of mankind, of the mis
sion of America to show the way to
the world for the realization of those
rights. A"'l every grave of every
brave man in the country would seem
to have upon it the colors of the (lag.
If he were a true American?would
seem lo have on it that stain of red
which means the true pulse of blood:
that path of P?re white whleli means
the peace of the soul. And then there
seems to rise over the graves of those
men and to hallow* their memories that
blue space of the. sky In which swim
thoce stars which exemplify for us the
glorious galaxy of the States of the
Union whleli stand together to vindi
cate the riyhts ot inuukind.
STUART WILL NOT
Declares Opposition to Election!
of Morals Commissioner by
Legislature.
FOR STRICT ENFORCEMENT
Against Invasion of Prerogative
of Chief Executive, How
ever Disguised.
"I stand to co-oporale with .ill
friends of prohibition in carrylnsj <> it
to the fullest extent the will of the
people as i-xpr<-ssed at the polls, bet I
cannot think that even the mo?t earnest!
prohibitionist would, upon reflection.!
; either desire or expect me to sive my [
| approval to a measure which, while i
, v;iluly declaring 011 Its face to the con-j
j trary, yet In fact Invades the pre-i
i ok.iiIvi'S of the chief executive and!
: weakens the very law which, a hove all'
| others, experience has shown needs be
hind it all of the p iwer of the State."
In these words, contained in a let-i
jter written yesterday to J. \V. Hough, j
t of Norfolk, formerly president of the
i Anti-Saloon League of \* 1 rr? 1i.i. Gover-j
] t.or Stuart defines uncompromisingly!
] hi* position on the question of ere- ;
| a tin;,- the office of commissioner of
moral welfare -tho outstanding feature
I of the Mapp prohibition bill, which will
j be given a public hearing to-day be.-j
: fore trie Senate and House Committees
j on Moral rind Social Welfare
: ?,ox i:rt.\oics i.kttkh
Hi;<;,\i(i>i:r> a* cuimatlm
I Mad. public on the ev<> of the first
j open discussion of the prohibition bill. I
, the letter to Mr. f'ough was accepted
Mr. legislative circles yesterday as a
jcbj.r-cut statement of the Gov eri.ur's
? views 0:1 the commissionetshlp issue.'
While it is true that his views on this1
! question?expressed publicly for the !
j Jirst time?were conveyed In a com- '<
I munlcatlQn to a citizen In private life.
| the finality c-f the language and the
j circumstance that the letter was ad
J dressed to a man high in the councils
of the Anti-Saloon I.eapue, gnve it the!
[ character of an ultimatum.
If any doubt lingered In ultra-dry
j ranks that the Governor would pursue]
ja lenient course if prcsenterl with a
'prohibition bill retalninx the cornrnis-j
sionershlp feature, th.i\ doubt was dis
| slpated yesterday in the minds of all
l but th>* most "earnest prohibitionists."]
ISM i: IS .VOW SIfAHI'l.V
AM) I NMISTAKAIH.Y ?KKI.\i:il
I The making public of the Governor's'
j views on the question of creating a
.mora' i commissioner not subject to his
; Immediate control, supplied Capitol and
! hotel lobbies last night with a fruit
ful theme. Recognized "dry" men ad
mitted that the development w is ex
tremely interesting, but earcfully re
frain* d from cominc.iting on it. Under I
j the shelter of anonymity, some of tit?!
( more outspoken members conceded that
the issue between tlie Governor and t'ie
I advocates of t!-?. new office !? now
i sharply and unmistakably defined
Tiie Senate Committee on Moral and
, Social Welfare will begin public hear
ings r>n the Mapp prohibition bill at
1 .1 o'clock this afternoon in the hall
j of the House of Delegates. As guests
iof the Senate committee will sit tho
i same committee from the House. The
? hill has so far not been Introduced in
i the lower branch.
* hair in nn Mapp, of the Senate com
mittee. said last night that no set pro
gram for the- hearing has been ar
ranged. livery person interested,
whether a member of the T.eglslatut o
| or not. will have the right to speak.
It is certain that among the supporters
of the bill will be Ilev. James Can
non. Jr., superintendent of the Anti
| Saloon League of Virginia.
NO I XTK.XTIOX To KM It A U It A SS
toiiacco >i.\.\t'i-'ACTrni:its
Richmond and Petersburg tobacco
i manufacturers will lie on hand to ask
! for an amendment, which will protect
? them In tho necessary use nf ruin in
i the chewing-tobacco industry?n use
j which appears to bo prohibited by the
| bill in it:? present form.
"Tliero is, of course, no intention
>n the part of tho patrons of the bill
. to embarrass tobacco manufacturers or
?any of the arts or industries making
jit proper use of spirits," said Senator
[Mapp, "and these and all other reason
able amendments will he made a? a
matter of course."
There Is pending before the commit
tee also the Strode-Ad'li.son prohibition
bill. Senator Strode, however, indi
cated yesterday that he will not press
j the bill at to-day's hearing, but will
|reserve big opinions for the debate on
i the prohibition issue to follow later
| on the (loor of the Senate. ICxecpt pns
jslbly for tho purpose of comparing tho
j provisions of tho two prohibition mea.s
: ures, the Strode-Addison bill will
j hardly he drawn into the hearing this
j afternoon.
ACTION nv CO.IMIITTKK
NOT KXI'KCTHIJ TO-OAV
It is not regarded as likely that the
committee will vote to-day on the cjues
j tion of reporting the Mapp hill. If
ill develops that this afternoon's hear
jing Is sulllclent for the public discus
jsion of the measure before the commit
1 tee, that body will probably take the
measure under further advisement for
tho purposo of incorporating amend
(Continued on Fifth i'aVo.)
? Photos Copyrighted by Epos.
Two views ol" the British liner An
l?am as she lies off Old Point in
Hampton (loads.
FIFTY-FOUR PERSONS 1
KILLED BY ZEPPELINS j
|
ONleial Statement Admits Disaster j
Wrought in Latest Kald
Over TOn^land.
Hl'.YDRHDS OF HO.MUK JlItOPl'KD !
Berlin Claims That Heavy Damage
Was Done to Docks, Harbors and
Factories in Various Towns?All
Airships Keturu Safely.
LONDON, February !.? Fifty-four
persons wot*? killed and sixty-seven in
jured in last night's Zeppelin raid.
The tigurcv were contained in an offi
cial statement issued here thin after- j
noon.
It was officially stated that ?2f? bombs j
were dropped by the Zeppelins during I
the- air raid, and that bombs wcro j
dropped at several towns and in rural
districts in Derbyshire. Leicestershire,
Lincolnshire and Staffordshire.
Some dam.ige to property was caused. '
An official statement was issued this j
evening as follows:
"Further reports of last night's raid!
show that th-j evening's air attacks
| covered a larger area than on nnyj
previous occasion, llnmbs wi re dropped
| in Norfolk Suffolk. Lincolnshire, Lei
cestershire, Staffordshire and Derby
shire, tlie number being- estimated at
-'20.
i "Except In one parr of Staffordshire,
the material datnago was not serious,
and in no case was military damage
caused.
"No further casualties have been re
ported."
It AI dim; '/.Kri'F.I.IVS
ItETLIt.N IN SAFIS'I'V I
I EKhLIN, February 1 (by wireless to ?
:SayviIle).?The German admiralty's re- !
; port osi the Zeppelin raid of England.!
; says that incendiary bombs wore j
j dropped on ana near Liverpool, 13irken-!
i head, Manchester, Nottingham, Sheffield,
land Great Yarinoutii. Violent tires oc-j
i ourrcd. All the airships returned in]
i sa fety.
The text of tiie official statement I
reads:
"A Or man squadron during: the night |
of January 31-Februnry l. dropped aj
j large nuiHkr of incendiary bombs on!
| and near the Liverpool and L>irknn-j
j head docks, harbor and factories; also'
on the Manchester iron works and 1
blase furnaces, and on the Nottingham'
and Sheffield jactories and blast fur-!
naces, and flnnlly. on a large number:
of indusl rial establishments in the
Humber and near Great Yarmouth)
(Norfolk). At all Fiese places a pow
erful effect was observed from heavy
j explosions and most serious fires. In
j the lluinber one batter/ was silenced.
I "The Zeppelins were heavily fired
| upon from all points, but were not hit.
j The airships, in spite of the enemy's
i efforts, returned in safety."
M'LARTY KILLED ' I DUEL
Scerolnry of Cotton IJxchniiKr < 0111111 It
lee Meets Dentil In Duel AVItli
li'i'lloiv- Mm plover.
GALVESTON, TEN., February I ?
George A. MrLarty, secretary of the
marine committee of tho Galveston Cot
ton Exchange and Hoard of Trade, was
killed, and Robert Sluiw, an inspector
in the employ of the committee, was
seriously wounded in a shooting affray
in lhe secretary's offico to-day.
Shaw and McLart.v had a quarrel a
few days ago, when the latter dis
c-harmed the inspector.
Appam Presents Case
Without Precedent
in American History
Bewildering Mass of Com
plications Must Be Un
tangled by State Depart
ment at Washington.
WASHING TON. February 1.?The :
.'nited States to-nipht faces the task
>f acting as referee between Kngland
ind Germany in the case of the British >
iner Appam, brought into Norfolk by j
I German prize crow.
Attendant on the arrival of the ves- |
icl, to which so much mystery has been j
ittaclied sincc she sailed from the West
Vfrican port of Dakar, there hns arisen |
i bewildering mass of complications in- j
?olving line points of international law '
uul diplomatic procedure.
i.'ount von Bornstorff. the Gorman .
imbassador. it may authoritatively be I
innounced. will press for the intern-]
II eni of ttie Appam as a German aux
liary cruiscr.
.Sir Cecil Spring-Kice, tlie Kritish am-I
sassador, it max be. stated also <111 !
lighest authority, will insist on the re
lease of the Appam to its British own-!
>rs if it is held to be a prize, or its!
?etnrn to British owners after the war
f held to bo an auxiliary cruiser.
I.MIIMAXV W 11 1. < ONSKNT
'in M'.rriiioii comisi-;
Under no circumstances will Ger
many consent tc cither course. If
necessary, s-he will sink the vessel to
prevent it falling into the hands of
the British.
Secretary of State Lansing announced
to-night that he had not decided what
lie will do. lie has not, he said, ob
tained sufliolent fai'ts on ' ich action
may be based. Ho will confer with the
neutrality board beforo deciding what
lisposiiion shall l?u made Of the vessel.
From the Pest information obtainable
to-night it is thought certain the action
of this government will be:
First, cither lo Intern the Appam as
i converted cruiser, or sequester it as
i prize, in either event holding it at
Norfolk until the end of the war.
Second, to release the crew of the
Appam arid the passengers, including
the twenty German prisoners, who are
not recognised as prisoners while on
American soil.
Third, lo arrange through (lie consuls
r?f the countries of which the passen
gers and crew are F/.ib.lect, for their
return to their homes.
Fourth, to intern the German prize
crew which brought the vessel into
port, until the epd of the war.
I\ STHO.Mi OPPOSITION
AT OUT.S1-5T OF CASK
At the outset the German and Brit
ish embassies are In strongest opposi
(Coutlnucd on Second I'agcT) "
Capture of Appam
Is Real Sensation
WITH ii tacriunn pri*e crew nn
hoard. the Ilritisli piiHxrnp'r
liner \|i|imn, picked up in \N>nI
African waters. has lirfn liruuKlK to
Hampton HuiiUn. creatine u Mcnsatinu
prcaler than tlint nrouxcd nhon llic
(.crmiin nu\lllnr.v I'rl iia ICitrl Frled
rlch ii ml Kroiiprin/. YVllhelni run
the gauntlet of the Itrltlsli blurknil
Inp; Mauadron anil entered Norfolk
for internment.
Fifty-four person* were killed and
ulity-xcvon injured in Hie rnld of
Herman ulr.slil|iN our Norfolk. Suf
folk, I) e r li y n Ii I r e. t.clccsterslilrc,
Stntl'ordsblre and l.incoliisliirc Mon
day ulclit, uceorilisiK to the ollleiul
report of the llrltisli f;<iternmrnt.
In all. -tin lioiiilis Here dropped front
the nlreraft, and eoiiNlilerahle mate
rial damage ivns done.
i:.\cept for a Herman infantry nt
tnek northeiiMt of Arras, checked by
a fusillade of h:uid urennde* thrown
by the I'rrnrli4 artillery iluel.i and
bombardment* have predoiuinnied on
the iveNlera front.
A MiitKle arlillrrv nil in k near
Monte 1111 in li<> n, where the Italian*
repulsed the AiinIriant*. I* the only
tiling of inipurtance on the Aixlro.
Italian front.
From Iti^a to the Strlpa Itlver the
A UMtro-t.ermaii force* were worsted
by Hie Itusslaus in scvernl riiKiixe
Ilientn. ni'eiirilinq to IVtmcrad. hut
the (lKlitliiK has been mostly liy the
l?i? Run*.
RESERVE ENGINEER CORPS
i Plans to I tlli/.e at I.east t'iviliaiis j
in 'lime of War Are
A pprnved.
i :
! NK\V YOrtK. February 1.?IM;?n? fori
I providing the I'niled Staten Army with j
a reserve corps of at least 30,000 j
civilian engineers for coast and other:
defense work in time of war, have been
approved, it was announced here to
night, by the American Society of Civil
Knpineers. the American Inslituto of
Mining Engineers, tl?o American So
ciety of Mechanical ICnginoers and the
American Inntltute of Klectrlcai F.ngi
neerH.
Major-Genera 1 Wood will direct tho
organization of the corps, which Is to
havo its headquarters in Pillabureh.
COMMANDER OF ftPPAM
TELLS OF ITS CAPTURE
Cjpi'iiiun Kiiidcr Moewe, Disguised as
Trump, With Hattery of Heavy
(inns ('onoonled.
ALL liKSISTANCR IS ISFLKSS
\o Fears Knlci'iaiiiPil l.'nlil Shot Is
Fired Across liows ami False Fore
castle Head Falls Away, Disclosing
Heal Nature of Ship.
Ol.t' POINT COMFOUT. VA? Febru
ary 1.?The Mo ewe was disguised as a
tramp steamer ami carried a battery
of heavy guns concealed behind a false
forecastle head when sho captured tin*.
Appam. according to ;l story Carroll
H. Foster. pilot, saUl to-night that Cap
tain Harrison, the Apparn commander,
told him. Foster brought the Apparn
hero to-day after sho had roportod as
tlio German steamer F.iffalo, and on
the way in lie talked with Captain
Harrison.
The story told by Foster is tlio only
detailed account of the capture that
has conic from the Appam. Lieutenant
lierg. the German naval olliccr in
charge .if the cr> w whleh captured tiie
vessel, refuses positively to permit
arty one except Cnited States oflleersj
to board or leave I lie ship. An armed
Kiiard on the deck warns all sorts of
vessels to steer wide of tlo- Appam.
?vr.wsi'mi:\ wah.nkd
\OT TO CO V1-1A It AI'l'AM
"it is best not to go near her." tiie
lieutenant warned newspaper men to
night. "My men nii^ht shoot."
This is Captain Harrison's story of
the Appam'a capture as Foster told ii
to-night:
"It was a bright. clear day when we
were eapt'ireil. We were moving; along
at a fair rate of speeii when suddenly
in the distance 1 saw what appeared to
lie an ordinary tramp steamer. Crad
uallv she enrne closer. We <1 i? 1 not fear
her and continued ahead with no at
tempt to escape, in r without making
preparations t?? combat her. as we cer
tainly expected no attack.
"Suddenly the tramp ti -e?l a shot froin
a small kiwi across our how. I immedi
ately hove to. As f did. the false fore
castle hi-ad. made apparently of can
vas or some othe,* tlimsy material,
fell away and revealed a battery of
huue (runs
"'It immediately was apparent that
resistance was useless, so we surren
dered without offering resistance."
The next chapter of Foster's version
of Harrison's narrative as to how the
small crew of Germans piloted the Ap
pam successfully across the width of
the Atlantic and kept the Appam crew
and passengers In subjection, was
graphic and romantic.
"Once aboard the Appam," Foster
quoted Harrison as continuing. "The
German prize crew tinder the protec
tion of {he battery of ^uns of the
raider immediately disarmed the crew
and locked them In varioir: cabins. A
similar precaution was token with the
passengers.,
"In the course of. this work the twen
ty German captives who worn being
(Continued on Sccond Page.)
*4
T ?
Appam, of West African
Trade, Victim of Mysteri
ous Commerce Destroyer.
SENT ACROSS ATLANTIC
INTO AMERICAN WATERS
She Brings Crews of Seven Other
British Ships Also Cap
tured by Raider.
SC'KXH IS NRAR CANARY ISLANDS
Now Lies Ofl* Old Point Awaiting
Decision ns to Disposition
by Washington.
NORFOLK. VA., February t.?Given
up for lost days ago. the British
sentrer liner Appam, plying in the West
African trade, appeared like an appari
tion In Hampton Roads to-day. flying
the German naval ensign, and with
her ship's company under guard of a
German prize crew. She brought word '
of a mysterious German commerce '
raider, the Moewe. which now roams
the seas, and had on hoard the crews
of seven P.ritish merchantmen and ad
nilralty transports captured by the
i Moewe before she seized th" Appam
'and started her across the Atlantic, for
Jan American port, with Lieutenant Hans
I Berg. of the German naval reserve, and
| twenty-two men in charge.
! The Appam now lies off Old Point
j Comfort, under the guns of Fortress
? Monroe, waiting for the State Depart
ment at Washington to determine her
status?whether she is a man-of-war,
I sithject to internment, or a German
! prize. By. to.morrow th" customs au
i thoritlcs' h'in'e hope to have orders to
: send the ship either to Norfolk or N'cw
? iiort News, where the anxiously wnit
! ing Fit itish civilians will he put ashore.
(VF.SSKI. M.1KRS IHIIFF
SHOW OF IIKSISTAXCE
According to the story told with
i great reserve by Lieutenant Berg to
j Collector Norman R. Hamilton when
' he formally reported his presenco in
! American territorial waters late to
! day. the Moo we captured the Appam,
hound from Dakar, French West Africa,
! for Liverpool, after a brief show of
1 resistance, on January 6, sixty miles
north of the Madeira Islands. On board
; the Mocwe then were the crews of tlvo
i vessels, previously captured, nil of
' whom were transferred to the Appam.
J Front all reports, the raider Is a
; converted German merchantman with a
! false canvas forecastle concealing a
j battery of guns of fairly largo caliber.
I On January 17 she engaged in battle
tan armed Australian trader, the Clan
| McTavisit, which site sank, after an
exciting combat, with a loss of four
men killed on the Clan MeTavlsh. The
Appam, which was ten miles away at
the time, in charge of tho prl/.o crew,
steamed hurriedly back to tho scene
and rescued four members of the crew
of tho sinking Clan McTavlsh, who
woro struggling in tho water.
HIS IMUZK IS HKAOKD
FOIt A3II3UICAV PORT
j Later, under orders front tho com
mander of the raider. Lieutenant Berg
! headed his prize for an American port
[and parted company with the Moewe.
Nothing has been seen or heard of tho
: raider since, and the Appam steamed
| across the ocean on an uneventful
j voyage, reaching the Virginia, capes at
3:tf> this morning.
On board tho Appam. all told, are
j -(.">2 persons?the prize crew of twentr
? three, twenty German civilians who
j were on their way to England for In
ternment, 13s seamen captured with tho
j British ships, lit; passengers or. tho
i Appam and the Appnm's crew of 155.
j Lieutenant Berg claims tho Appam is
| a prize of war, but government oflieials
, have not yet accepted this view. She
Iliad one mounted rifle aboard when
i captured, l>ut this was removed by
' the Moewe, and there were no guns
! aboard her when she reached port
? except small arms carried l>y the prize
1 crew.
?>n January 10 the Moewe captured
and sank the llritish steamship Far
I ringold, carrying tons of copper
l ote. Later on the same day she cap
? tared the British steamship Corbridge,
: with a cargo of fi.OOJ tons of coal. The
i Moewe did not sink tHe vessel, hut sent
\ a crew aWo.wd ami li?? ill hor as a collier.
I'Nn* throe ilays the Morwc wan In
Jactive, and then the Mritish admiralty
(transport Drontonhy hove in sisht ot;
'January 13. She offered no resistance,
ami was captured and sunk. Beforo
? tii.it day was over, the raider had met
and destroyed the British steamship
i Author, carrying S.OOO tons of general
j cargo, and the admiralty transport
? Trader, with 0.000 tons of sugir.
II FAT
j A IMt IA ll\R SF.VT TO IIOTTOM
WITH CAIUiO OF W
| No ship of the enemy was sighted on
the. Hth, but on the 15th tho British
steamship Adrladtte crossed tho raider's
path and was sent to the bottom'-with
her c-,:'go of 5,000 tons of wheat.
Next ?lay, January 16, there appeared
the b'ggest prize of all, the liner Ap
pam, carrying S.OOO tonR of general
merchandise. Including a large quantity
of cocoa. Whether tho Appam offered
