INSIDE STORY OF
GERMAN PLOTS HERE
First detailed authentic account of wide
spread activities of Teuton secret service
here. A thrilling story of intrigue
IN xIEXT SUNDAY'S SUN.
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 155.
WILSON LAUDS
ON PACIFISTS
IN IOWA TALK
filiml ti Danger U. S. Is
Facing. Says the
President.
TALKS TO TIIltOXGSIN
HI VAX STRONGHOLD
Averts He Will Maintain
Nation's liights, Even
by AVar.
NOT INFLUENCED 3SY
MUNITION MAKERS
Executive Malies Five
Speeches on Way West,
From Chicago.
JTYcsiaent Wilson addressed his
largest audience of the present tour In
Ues Moines last night.
Tills speech followed four train end
talks to largo crowds in Davenport,
Iowa Cltj Grlnncll and Newton and
greetings to crowds In small Illinois
cities.
As ho was In thn "Hryun stronghold"
the President paid particular attention
to the peace at any price advocates.
In his Pes Moines speech, although
t ip audience was law, the President's
.Utacks on peace advocates were not
io ctvrd with any great enthusiasm.
Ih denied that munition makers had
my influence on his tight for national
il fence
Ho declared that peace advocates
' an no lde.i of the dangers this couu-
.. has faced and will face. He re
stated his warning of the peril of
vlng drawn into the European war.
The President said he hoped that
ait of the war would come an iti-ernatioiial-
peace tribunal.
xtnerlcii can't lie an ostrich and bury
head in the sand and shut itself out
mi the rest of the world because of
' t.ers,
He will preserve the rights of the
Mun even If it can bo done only
ough war.
President WIImui declared a he
. ztJ on tho thousuiuls of Hags in the
audit lorn that their appetired to
move across tliem ghostly visions of
devoted men who, looking at the Hag,
'bought only of liberty, rights of rnan
k nd. of the nilsiii of America to the
T-1 for the realization of those
iuccest audience of
TRIP AT DES MOINES
Xm it,i Hnl liunlimtlf n ls,,ti
ciiri'i l'ncltlts.
' M 'ink.-. I.i. Keb 1 President
.ill fii.ii i strokes at the
. c ii li pnee" coiiMctloiis of Will
1 Hi v in .1 ml the piace at nil
.mm atee in a speech licie tu.
nigiil l fore the largest mullein, lie
Irlr'h-.-! mi his stumping tour,
i' I'r. s dent, in what had In en atlvcr-
f i- the st ronghiilil of the l!raii
trr. devoted Irs oiiertfles m.-unlv
ll'llb it. i'S Hie 'oiiiiiiiiiki'x .lillu-
'C
''1 some amnio:) us preach.
i said the Picaident in Hie
' oimh lain pan of his speech, "who
no in h further than I ''.m go, furltior
i I .'ii follow tlniein. preaching
-i i .my price and In any circum-
x-ev r' called out a man sitting ill-
r. 'i front of the President, but
v died down III its own eeh.iea
n wiii not a single hamtrlap of
ii The President coiitlnueil .
"Th' r.. is a price that we can never
i' f peiic, we cannot pay the pilce
' . ' r - irct, ,,f glorious nppoi (unities
i. if national character neg-
'I '! tic men who are out mid out
.,) making one fundamental
mlt.'i" he stid, "the mistake of Ig-
i. dangers that tho country
.Vuerlca cannot be an ostrloh
" ' " id In the sand. America ran
it heisilf out from the. rest of
" I 1 iuse America is In con-
! i km vt with the rest of the world
i .in that contact that danger
r om what other nations may do."
I iiIIiiikIiiniii J'iiIIk lliinn,
preparation Intel been made for
r fill, president a magnltlcent reccp
Theie were l'J.'ion person In the
i i' I . ,i-ii one waved nn American
' c ii r i.g the applause. Hut the en
i i w.i not up to expectations
' a .unit upon men of thn "peace at
I' i iier.-iiasicui wits received with
1 ' i cj i.pproval only, and the audl
" '.nl clearly that It approved his
' ' p .Ih- utterances above any ill
' .,i thnsn who arn opposing him
'n pre pareilness issue because of
' pi a. e.ible convictions,
' I'ns.ili-nt pressed for the bencilt
pucilist sentiment hern his an
'i the i barge that the munitions
- I e'ie iienior plate Interests had given
' 1 glutting impulse to tho defence
l'n p.ig.imla.
M s.i"l that he had favored the en-
cef the cloveniment into the busl-
f pri'ducing these munitions In
1 " 'hit it might be in a position to
' ' e lng prh'n, and bee repudlatee!
ei "ii tiiat he wan being led by
i'oi). en of thn private manufao-
T i President reached Pes Jlolnes at
I '" eriiral time. He was met by a
i i.e. representing the gieater Pes
' lani'ier of I'omineice and the
'" " M.iineN i e, mill it tec ami thin
' i ii, i ,. rti.iiniieri.ini Motel, wliere
M m W.lson dined pilvalely.
T i ail lobby was crowded in uvery
PciiitliiuifJ on Fourth I'apr.
ISHOTONEMAN,
SUSPECT TELLS
ALBANY POLICE
Two of Gumnan's Victims
identify, the Prisoner,
Apparently 3ltid.
ADMITS A TERM, IN
ASYLUM. FOR INSANE
ALtiANr, Feb. 1. Harold Severy, aged
25, who says he Is a vaudeville and mov
ing picture actor and a son of Melville
L. Severy of los Angeles, was arrested
In Schenectady this afternoon and lodged
In the Albany Jail to-night on a charge
of being the nun who allot and fatally
wounded ono person In Albany and
wounded three others with a rllle having
a Maxim silencer.
Sovery confecd to-night that he had
shot ".i man on Chestnut street," but
did not linow ids name. James Krwln,
tho tlrst victim, who died as a result of '
his wound, was shot on that thorough-,
fare. The police drew n lung story of (
rambllngs from the prisoner which con
vinced them that Severy is n maniac.
He told tho authorities that he was
first nnnocd In New York city by per
sons "sticking their tongues out" at him.
He went from one city to another In
order to get away from his iinuoyers, the
piisoner said, finally winding up In Al
bany. Here he purchased sulphuric acid,
Intending to throw It upon any one who.
bothered him, but decided that his wire,
connecting rltle would have better re-1
suits.
Ill view of the fact that two of the
victims Identified Severy to-night, the io-1
lice are holding him on a technical charge
of tlist degree assault. An examination
will be mado of his mental tomllttou
to-morrow.
Johu McCormick and lilward l
Kenny, two of the victims, have vosl
lively Identified Severy as their assail
ant. Left Albany Mituriln.
It was on Saturday last that Severy
Is said to have left Albany and walked
half wav to Sclici.cc.tady. He went to
the boarding Iwiw of .Mrs. Margaret
Munda and secured accommodations.
Mrs. Munda assigned him to a room
and nothing more was heard of the new
comer until iesterday. when Ids actions
aroused her curloslt. She spied on her i
lodger and saw him examining a small
rltle not weighing more than a good
sized revolver. She says that h placed
the rllle upon n table and started for the
door behind which Mrs. Munda was con
cealed. She stood aside.
'1 want to get some oil." Mrs. Mund.v
told the police Severy informed her.
'do right .icioss the street and sou
' will llnd a drug store wheie uu can
get all Hie oil joii want.'' was her an
! swer.
I Scu left the house and Mrs Munda
, telephoned the He helecl.lll pull, e po
: llceman Hosier hurried to lli. Manila's
i home and got into Seven's room heroic
thu boarder returned He brought with
him a bottle of oil and was about to take
up the rllle when Ussier Interfered.
I "Any offence for a man to oil his
i gun'.'" ii'-Ked Sewry.
"No, but It is agimst the law to have
waiiiM of that kind on your person,"
explained the olllcer.
Inueliloii" Dolce I'oiilnl.
"As long as that Is the charge." the
prlsonel alisweieil, "1 11 go wun you.
Suspicion that Severy was the man
sought by the Albany police was
strengthened when a picul'.ir combina
ti,.n nf r.fle mid wire was found in his
room. The police say that Severy had
a contrivance or distinct originality. To
a small rltle. sKteen Inches long, wire
!,.! i , Httacheil which connected with
the trigger. Thl could be concealed,
along wilh the weapon. In a coat sleeve.
The wire was so arranged as in make
It po-sihle for mep ly the muxzlu of thn
rllle to protrude from the coat sleeve.
Hv manipulation the wire could be pulled
,,,',d tli rifle discharged. Th mailm
H'lcnccr made up the lem.ilnder or tho
combination.
Severj admitted that he oie-e was nn
Inmate of the Jlo-pltal for the Insane at
Wiverly. He said that his parents in
I.kis Angeles were wealthy and h" was
spending his leisure time on Inventions.
ECCENTRICS A V.S FATHER
Admits tn etetl Oiiccrly I'ollim
t lug nn Injur).
I ,os AM.Kt.US. Pole. I --Melville I.
Severy, living at llio Hotel lladcllh'e lu
' this city . said to-nighit that he has a son
I named Harold Seer. wiio haa been en-
g.Tged ns a vaudeville ana motion pn tore
actor. H lidded that his son had suf
f cred an injury sotno timu ago which
resulted In Ills pronounced eccentricity.
According to Mr. Severy, the young
man ban never shown any sign of homi
cidal mania, his particular Illusion being
a fear that he would surfer harm at ttm
hands of others. When Infnrmtd of the
arrest of the ill. in claiming to be his sop,
Mr. Sevorv said :
"If the man under arrest is Indeed my
son, 1 am iinablu to offer any explana
tion, of the acts charged against him.
Such ncthiiis are entirely foreign to his
mutiire. If the .charge - true, bo must
be tho victim of a peculiar casn of In
sanity which has recently developed. "
NEW BIDS BY APOSTLE OF PORK
Munition Plant nml AlliiMcin
School Smiulit for riorldti li- ( InrL
W'ASItlNliTtlN. Keb. I telteeltve
Clark of Klonilii. chilimau of the Com
mltten on Public Hullillnrs and the
npohtln of "pork barrel" legislation, ap
peared In tho Home to-day as an ad
vocate of a new linn nf public Improve,
ineius.
Mr. f'l'irk has specialized In the past
on public buildings and rivers und h.ii-bo-s.
To-elav he offered a bill appro
priating J3.UOO,000 for a i inveriiincnt
munition Plant l,p built at (icala,
Pill., and another bill appropriating
(.. OO.fiOO for mi army aviation school at
Pernandlna, I'la. Mr. ("lark dechircd
that his dlsciitiifu wits purely Impel
sonal. "Theie ii i c only two town. In my dis
trict entuled lo them that have put got
public buildings." said Mr. Pl.uk.
A House leaclei asked to-day If Ocala
and Kernamllna vvein the two towns Mr.
C.Mark had In inhid.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2,
"LOST" BRITISH S. S.
HELD
Seized on High Seas, Boarded by Prize
Crew, Captors Guided Her Past
Line of British Warships for
Dash to U. S. Port.
NOTABLES AMONG 451 ON BOARD;
RAIDER SANK 6 ENGLISH SHIPS
Will Be Interned, as Were Kronprinz Wilhelm
and Prinz Eitel, Is Belief in Washington
Embarrassing Diplomatic
Tangle Feared
CAPTAIN'S OWN STORY OF CAPTURE.
KJORKOLK, Vii., I'cl). 1. Capt. Harrison, who commanded tho
Appam before she was captured, said to-nijrht:
"Wo htivo no complnint to mukc of the treatment we received on
the Appum. Wo wero Riven every consideration.
"The ship was taken on n brig-lit, warm day. We were making fair
speed und sighted the Moewe ten miles off our starboard bow. We
paid no attention to her until she nppeared to be circling us; then she
started to cross our bow.
"She bore down on us, but her Hritish flap; was visible and we hud
no fear that an enemy was approaching. Wo thought perhaps she
needed provisions or coal. We were preparing to run up a signal ask
ing whnt was wanted when she made directly across our bow and
again circled us. 1 presume she was endeavoring to ascertain how muny
guns wc had on board.
"When she came hack on our starboard bow she was only a few
yards away; then she dropped her sides and exposed her guns. She
lowered the Hritish flag and ran up the German colors. Wc had no
chance, and gave up to avoid bloodshed."
Xotiroi.K, Viu, Feb. 1. One maritime,
mystery of the war cave way lo an
other when llio Hiitlsh passenger liner
Appatn, nibbing since Junuary K.
steamed past the Virginia capes Into
Hampton Ho ids about dawn to-day
with the (iciiiinn naval ensign living
at tier mast bond mid a German prize
crew under comnumd f I.leut. Hans
llerg nf the (Jenn.tn Naval Keserve in
e harge.
The Appam, which had left Dakar.
Hritish West Africa, for Plymoutli.
lliiglaml. on January II, had for sev
eral days been counted as missing -one
nf the many vessels of which the
sea has taken Inexorable toll. Her ar
rival cleared the tnjstery, but onl
to add a mystciy of the existence of a
Herman ship. -apparently it vessel of
war, which not only made a pti.c of
the HritUh liner, but sank or captiued
six other Hntlsh ships with valuable
cat goes.
This (icitnaii vessel which hs
eluded the Uuglisli ships that have
been sweeping the seas Is the Moewe,
a liaft fin mldable enough at least to
have sunk one P.rltlsh ship which
showed light and in have capt in ed the
Appam without so miii'li as a show of
I c.-lstancc. Her sloiv, told as jet in
fragmentary detail, Is one of the ro
in.intK' adventuies of the high -e.is.
Mli Into Port tit Diimii.
Tho e,fflclal veision of the App.un's
arrival is brief. Sin., appeared olf the
Virginia capes at .i : 1 . o'clock this
morning, to all appearances a pas
senger vessel, took on j pilot and
hove to off did Point Comfort, where
she anchored.
Tlio vis-m-I arrived in port none ton
.ocni, for being on her return trip she
was silent of provUlciiis, having only
mougli for another daj-. laetit. tlerg's
first reipiest wn.s for petiiiissiiin to
purchase supplies.
l.ieut. llerg. commanding the prize
crew of twenlj -two men from tlio
.Moewe, went ashore to pay his r,..
spects to Col. Ira I In) ncs at JAirt
Monroe. Afterward he called nn the
Ciriuan Viie-Consul, Marshall vim
Schilling, and with him c.iiue to make.
Ills report to the Collcctoi of the Port
of Norfolk. Norman 11, llilion.
Oidcrs were given that until the
stains of the vessel and the pi'rsons
aboard her Is lived, iartleularly that
uf the armed subjects of ilreat Hrltaln
as well as of (jermaiiy, no one will lie
pernntled to leave her. The Appam
therefoie leinalns to-night without com
miliin mioii ashore
As soon as the State Department has
come to a decision regarding her status
the p.thsengi I s and non-comb Hauls,
among them a number of women, will
proli.ihlv tie permitted tn land. The
vessel Itself will Join thn Inleiiled Her
man vessels now- at this port, it Is ex
pected -I T. I Piisneiiuers Vlionrd.
On the Appam are 4T1 persons, In
cluding 42 Hermans, nf the-sc if, 5 nro
members of the oi1khi.i1 crew, 115 urn
passenger", among whom are Sir 1M
ward Merewether, (iiivernor of Slerre
I.eone, and Jils wife; 'JO are Herman
prisoners who were brought aboard the
llrlllsh vessel to be taken to Ihigllsh
detention camps; 138 were survivors of
the ships elcstrojed hv the Moewe nnd
I'L" are members of the Herman prize
crew.
There was nothing about the Appam
as she entered Hampton llo.nN to In
illciie that she had undergone extiaor
Unary vicissitudes at si a. Her black
hull and while siipiTstruiiure were tin
scarred. I'xcept f o thn Herman ensign
(lying at the peak she might have been
n Hrltlsh vessel making her ordinaiy port
of call.
How she came to the plight In which
she Muds lieiself and the etra..i'illiiiiiv
adventuies of the Moewe, which bronchi
her to II, weio told oul.v lu bare outline.
Lieut, lleil.', a short, stocky figure with
a cjnsu cropped Vand.vke beard, was
most reluctant to reveal the adventures
AT HAMPTON ROADS
of the ship wtuen captured the Appam
after so thrilling an expedition of
clettuctlolt
He has In en iii American pints before
as the loiumaiiiler ot a merchant vessel,
lie even has been at the Norfolk Cu
torn Houe many times before. Pnder
hl suavity of demeanor lucre was an
tmllllichiiig reserve. A nearly as could
be. ascertained, however, this ti the stoiv
of tne i ierman lahler :
The "ceiie uf the Moewe's extiloits wa
somewhere In the vicinity ot the Canar.
islands How she came there Is Milt a
mystery which Meat. llerg will not te
vc.il, nor Is It known iletlnltely Jus:
what kind of ship -die K There Is said
to. be listed In the Gorman mivy-a-vessel
of that name know n as a verme--sungschlff,
a small boat of a few hull
died tons armed with two T, centimeter
I cittiM iimiI f.ir uiirv.i -i.i.-lr :in.t kltnltitr
111 siitne respects lo the of the
jl'liited Slates toast and Hcsletl. Sir
I vev-.
What port the Moewe Failed from
'how she came to be upon the high seas
i Ploying upon llrlliih commerce v ln 'i
the .it of Herman raiders was sup
posed to have heen accounted f r Is et
to be told.
At all events the Moewe on .January
in c.une mion the llritlsh steamer I'ar
illigfonl, laden w ith 5,00(1 tons of copper
oie, and sank her. I in the same da she
fell In Willi another lliuish t.-sel. the
Corbnilge, laden with UnO ton of coal.
The cpiestlnn of fuel evident lv was a
serious me with the Herman ves-el, for
the Corbt hIks wits mule to iiecomp.iny
her. serving the purposes of a eollii r, and
j so f.u as is known Is still tr illing In the
wake of the victorious raider.
soul. Mi I n Aflor lili.
cm .1 :i ntl.e r 13 the Moewi came upon
the llililsh Admiralty tr.inport 1'ro
monby, laden with fi.Ono tuns of coal
The llrouionhy was captured apparently
without ililllcultv and sunk.
i in January 1.1 also the Hntish ship
Author, carrying s.Oim tons of uener.il
cargo, was captured by the Moewe and
sunk.
nn the same day the llrlllsh steamship
Trader, also an Adinliall.v liansport,
with a c.ugo of il.il'lu tons of sugar, was
captured and sunk.
On January !' two days later, the
Hrltlsh ship Ariadne was captuieii and
sunk wuli a iMitii of a, mm tons of
wheal.
tin the following day the Moevve
sighted the Appam. carrjlng s.nini tons
of nciier.d cargo and mall ami lit! pas
senueis and a clew of 1 rr. men.
Jusl bow tin- i a tit ti 1 1- took place the
Inscrutable Limit. Herg would not reveal.
Itcpotts found their w.i nshoie from the.
Appam. however, that tit' vessel was
proceeding on her way when she en
countered what appeared to he a
freighter or merchant vessel Hying the
llrlllsh ensign. The ship being of small
size no alaim was felt when she
drew near When within a compara
tively short distance, however, the mer
chant ehar.it ler of the approaching ves
sel was transformed. Pnlse sides nf
canvas wcie ilmppcd, revealing guns.
( opinio siirrendereil.
H. v home it was said thai the Appam,
discovering her clanger, tiled a single
shol. Capt llarilson, however. e
iplailicil to-night (hat he gave up to tave
his passcngi r and avoid bloodshed.
I'nder the guns of the Moewe the prize
crew boarded the Appam without lo.
slstance and under the command of
Lieut. Herg she was made to follow the
Herman captor.
It was olliclally established in-niKht
that the Moewe was a converted cruiser.
She had four guns mounted forward
and her tumor was arranged on hinges.
When In place her guns were hidden ami
her sides looked like those nf a harm
less merchant steamer.
When she met the Appam she lowered
her armor and exposed her guns She
II red two shots at the Appam, one of
which fell on her forward deck and ex
ploded, but did no damage The other
passed harmlessl) over the Appam's
how
I, lent. Merge is pinted a a)lng Hint
Hie Moewr wniilil not lime tired on the
A !! tti only Hie) ohsrrvril nn KnglNIi
gunner unroirr Hie nrreiii of Hie gun
1 on Hie llncr' tleelc.
Several of the Appam's passengers
were military men, one of theni being
Lieut. I'ledirlck James, secretary to the
Administrator of Nigeria and said to be
n relative of liid Deiies. Many of the
crew were eciulpped with small aims.
I'iiiiii these nppn'eiitly there was no re
sistance The ciew were disarmed and
coinpelli d to do thilr customary service
ifhdiT the eyes of their raptors.
' Herman prisoners who had been
brought fiom African suts to be In-
trriiid In Kngllrh detention camps war
. 1916. CopVrl0ht, 191B, by the Sun
APPAM, SEIZED BY RAIDER,
A TLA NT I
NtV YORK
NCWPORT MEWS
ah
3
I .. MAOtmAt if
CAN Aft Y f
octy iyAFRlCA
2-3orx. col 1
DASAHT7
Ar-1ERICN vs-. '
A KOVK, the Hritish,stcnmship Appam. Below, map on which the
solid lines indicate the course taken by the Appam from Dakar,
Senegambia, to the Canaries, where she was captuieii, and thence
ncross the most desolate expanse of the Atlantic to Norfolk, und silo
the possible course of the Moewe, her (ierman captor, from Kiel to the
Canaries. The- dotted line shows the course to Plymouth, wliere the
Appam was bound.
released to stand hj their triumphant
count r nn ii
Lie.ut. Heig ailnoiied that the subse
quent voyage of the; Appam w.is peace- ,
fill and w ihnut iiichleni The men were
kept below deck- for the most part, al
thong!, before tl.e vi s.,. I tcachul heie ,
tti-daj lhe were allowed ccit.iiu liber
tie" The il-nn.in (nize trev, n is said,
foitllleU their authority With mines and
b mios jil, o ed lit low decks in vital parts'
of the ship xx lilt they tn"v tlcneil te ex
plode at the least show of mutiny on ;
the part of the capture n ciew or pa-'
si ngers This method of inducing peace,
was (.viilenllv most effective, lor not a
hand was i.ttud in revolt during thnl
Journey from y-mewheie in the vicinity!
of the f.inar Winds ui.'. the ship
dropp. d anchor off old Point Comfort
WILSON'S CAR NEARLY .
KILLS FIVE CHILDREN
Pri'sitlcnl llnrrnrslnrUrii
.MilitiniiH'ii Mrair TIhmh
I'roin I'ihIit WIhm'Is.
Ih.s Moinis. In.. I'eb. 1 Pive school
children narrowly escaped being crushed
by President Wilson's private car while
he was delivering a short rear platfoim
speeih here this afternoon
1 liuiilreils of persons were ni.is.srd
around the car In the llltln etuiosute at
the Hock Island station to heir the
President and to get a glimpse of Mis.
Wilson. Twoseore blight faced school
children weie holding on t" the pint
form peering up at them.
Through some mistake lu signalling
or a false innxe of the engineer the
President's tialn backed several feet
hef slaC'Mg The President, In the
midst "f a sememe, saw live of the
children thrown under the car. Iloiror
stricken, lie leaned over the car railing,
calling nut an order that the car be
stoppetl.
It seemed as If the children weie cer
tain of being killed. Militiamen who
had tried unavalllngly to keep the crowd
back r-ticcceitcd In 'pillling the t hlldren
from under the wheels before It was too
late In an Instant the direction of the
tram was reversed und all of tho chil
dren weie out of danger.
Mr. Wilson was visibly shaken by the
suspense.
AM SINKING. SAYS SOS.
A merlfiiii Mtnnicr Hum .liipiuicnc.
Then Stnndu II?.
Hosl'o.s, Feb. 1.- Wireless messages
picked up here to-night Indicate that thn j
Japanese steamship Tokushlma Mam,
owned by the Osaka Meicanlllc Company
and bound Inun New Voik for Vladl- '
vostnli, was In collision to-night near I
Virgin Hevk, orr Cape Hace, wilh thn
Silver Shell, an American vessel. She
was sinking when last In aid tiom, Tho
Japanese vessel loft New York lust Fri
day and Is said to have been laileu with
war munitions.
A message regarding the accident was
lelnved ashoie by a slvamei signing her
wireless W I. A. The S O S call said.
"Am sinking, come and save me."
signed J. T, I. This Is the slgnutuio of
thn Tokushlma Main. The collision oc
ciltreil in latitude 43:46, longitude C : .1 7.
Other messages relayed ashore Indicated
Hint tho American craft responded to thn
call foi help and was getting out her
lifeboats, ,
Another report sas that the Injured
ship ma) he the T.ikata Maru.
I ti ,11a it lllver Oraniet, 14,30: ilmpe Fruit,
IH. 00 per hat, tlrlivrritd. Hotel IndUa
lllver Co , ItockUc), ri Atr.
1 I ' it L H
1'rMinp nml l'ublhhinn As,oclaHon.
A GERMAN CAPTIVE
t
V.. ... ' iL'1
C
I II SS It
Wh the prizo was not taken to Ma
deira or some tie.ucr neutral poit is
more or less ot an enigma to the Iut
nuthoiltes ar Norfolk. Por this then
was sai, I ' i I., a ie.is,,n .trying since
the otitliie.it, of he wai. Hul Ihe u.tturt
Of tt W.lh i ve.tled.
Th.. Ant am was mole in follow pn
Moewe n Hie mot tilt, g nf January 17
tlio Her-uan rn.der s'ghted t'i. cMui
MaeT.U isn. an Australian fr. .flit. i.
with a e-'iier.i! i ii'go eif 1". i tons. T'i"
Appam was several inllisaxvay when Hie
Ionian ship 1m, re tlow n upoo thu Aus
tralian v.sel and commanded her to
tial' P 'i th tl'st time in this adven
lurous oage of tin- Mnewe. so far as .t
has l-'eii t..iil, si,. me' vtith resistance.
The Ma. Tav isli answered the warn
ing h.v ooe: n tire and a llcl.t i n-ued
T!ie oi.e s,!.. Ine-s. nf tie' . ..' t!: t
TO HELP CURRENCY,
IS CARRANZA'S AIM
Kan ,m I'nnMuni'is Owiiin-r
I'l'dpi'i'tv ()n Tciiiiir.irv.
Mixti'o Pitt. F. b 1 Xtlm-iei o'
Justice llocille P.-iin I.i gave out the
following stale if lit lo.d iv rig tiding
Hen. ( 'a i ratuc.t s cln ulai of .lanu.tr I."
forbnldi.ig foreigners to aoiilire plop
cm in the rcpuhl.c
The pronounce, nent sa.s: "The Ftist
Chief, taking Into consideration diverse
at ldcut.il tiiciini-taiiccs which 1 will
enumerate, has dictated, with very good
Judgment, that foreigncs, without ex
ception whatever, may not ii'ipilie prop
e"tj In tho lepulilic. the reasoiiH Imltig
as billows: Otn paper mone, which
is mil ciiriein circulating t'lioughout
the count r, has depict inti it ei much
owing to unavoidable economic laws and
aillllcial and i opt ehensili!,, proceedings
hv thousands of speculators r. lit live
and act umulatc wealth bj luimodciaio
anil lmiisii.il tralhc in the eurreiicj of
the nation.
"Ilvcnls which have tli"l in l-etl our
coiintix for live .veils hive bioiighi suf
fering upon th" uicttct (nit of Mexi
cans, miners ot ical estatt, and more
especially owners of uiral properties, ate
tln.inclal) luissed. and In in.in.v ciscs
in desperate strolls, .in. I therefore havi
to dlsiose of theit propiities III older to
meel ohllgation.e Now, sun ' poisons
holding leal luilinsic values ale uiostl.v
foreigners, who tlisposc of inoiie.v fiom
their own countries which they oonveit
Into our currency at gnat advantage,
since for t el.tttx t lj Ini-iguilic.iht sums
they acquire a glciit amnlliil of the Lit -ter,
II is natural that such Mcxhans as
are lu bad straits go in them who luxe
inonej for tliniliti.ll opeiatlnns.
"It Is to be siipposi d, on ihe other hand,
that speculators Inien st,., in acquir
ing the cuiicncy of the Administration
lit the lowest possible prlt c to Invest
the same In leal estate, which they can
get for a song, are am hots of rumors
which are false and only b.isnl upon
selfishness, having lor their object th"
constant and u 1 1 J 1 1 -1 1 1 1 c I dcpiei i.ition of
our inonev.
"Another riasoii lor the pmlnliltlon
Is that the Hovcrninciil Is trving to pic.
vent Mexicans who have Inclined to
sponsllillltles from pulling aside their
decadent patriotism In favor of pi rsonal
Interests and i mc ovtr llnor proper
ties 111 lOleiglH i s
"When once Mexican values ire nor
mally fixed, a I ate of exchange being
established nml monctarj problems Wing
solved, forclgneis again will be at lib
erty to acquire all kliuli of piopcrtj
Itj th republic."
Si ' ' 'nnnMMiai
P LV M 0 U T
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
'Partly cloudy and colder to-day; to
morrow, fair.
i client femnerature
Detailed weather, m.i.ll
:i
EM
told In the result I'lftecn men wete
I h.lled on the MncT.tvish, The Moewe
' ame ihinugh the tight unscathed,
i The Austiallan vessel was aimed.
1 some my with one, others r.iy witli
) two guns, hut they were evidently ot to i
I small a calibre to match the armament
of the Moe.ve. When the Appam, which
I had been ten miles in the rear, nunc
up the MiicTavish bad been suirk nml I
! the Herman ralihr was pit king up the
surviving members of the ciew.
I In this rescue work the Appam took n
' hand, picking up four men. three of them
i wounded, wiio were among the captured
,011 the English vessel when she put Into
port to-day. I'm these wounded Lieut.
Herg asked accommodations ashore, nnd
they will probably be taken off the ves
sel to the Marine Hospital to-morrow.
On January 17 the Appam, divested of
her single :i Inch gun. which had been
mounted on Ihe bow under the command
of I.leut. Heig, palled company with thn
Moewe, which continued on her itdven-
minus way. Wheie her course may llei ,
(or in wlml waters she mlghl next bo .
heat, I f i mil Lieut. Heig was very cartful I
not to sat . ,
The repeated declaration that all
these stirring incidents occurred In the
v iioiy ,.f the Canary Islands was ob
v.oiisl. ieg.inl.il as sulllclentlj vague
i in cov.'i w .de distant i's and tu keep the
I llritlsh Admiralty guc'sing as to her
I wherealiohis. ,
i The Joinney of the Appam until she j
-.noted i he shores eif the Putted States ,
was made without misadventure and
s'ie ran the gantlet of etieinj shipping j
vt tboilt be. i g once hailed or iUestlnlied.
rnii.iijluiill.v this was accompl. died b"
Lleiloc Ihe tmiili routes of travel. On
3Liv
cxei.il occasions she sighted merchant squudron which last night was offi
Tr,s' . .. t i ... ii i, ! dally reported to have "passed over
It wa tl.e intention of Lieut. Herg to v' ' '
1ie.nl fertile vicl'ilty of New York. The ' the eastern, northeastern and midland
fear, however, that 'Hrltlsh i,'fl nilgh' ,.,,untii.s" Hew ciear actoss the north
be hovering In the vicinity of the tnoie
frequented harbor led him to change his em part of hnglniul, roughly from
.nu'-f for the t iiesape ike The shoies v.ll muth to l.iver ' dropping
of Hi- u.e can i.nt were sighted on
Simoax xll th.n day the Appam j bombs cm six counties ,iud nn as ninny
hnveie l ..(T Hie n.rist of Virgin a. feel- localities of (miliary niiportain e, In
mg her wax c nitlously. Last night.
ultl, darLee....! titrhis. she headed for the I eilidltig, nccoldillg to the (icrmun re-
apes at the enti.ince of the Chesapeake,
p.ing the llchi'couse In the early inorn
intr. before the il trl.ne.ss hoi ll!.ed.
l-'redei h'k Seton James, se. retarv' tn
the Admit" ip.r of Niger. a and re.
ported to be a cousin .if Lord lie.-ies.
who married Vivien tionl I. was among
those wiio bung over Pi
Appam to-dav waxing hands and hats
to new-paper men, who made frantic
e'i, If inn, I mi 7 it'll 'in.
BULGARS THREATEN
' TO DESERT TEUTONS
: W ill sv ;i Sim rn t c IVun1
I'iili's .Tlii'v lie) Ixiivjilii,
l li'i'pnrt.
irei e ,iM,. flfipntrl, 'o Tci Six
Ito.Mr. Feh 1 Iteporls ate pici.tleuH
here that Hit. liulgarlans threaten a sop.
alftte pence unless ih"y are allowed to
occupy Ixav.il.i, and meanwhile refu-,. to
attack Salouh a and tooperate with thn
Ailstnans In the Invasion of AUnlila.
It Is lllltlier rumored lll.lt they ate
foii fving Sella, despite the assurances
i of ihe Austrinus and Hermans that the
capital Is not menaced.
The Kaiser, according to tbe-e i.
'ports, op his icteiit visit to N'Uli strove
lo persuade King Ferdinand to allow
the Hulgartau.s to wear Holm in urn.
, forms, and was iiidi-mantl.v refused ,
, the; Kan., whiisanl thai the Hulgarlaus
prt f, r. ed i to lixei v .
He Milts teri'lliil l.tl ileslics the Itlll
g.uiaps aie ilem iinliiiK tlnancil coin-j
jieiisa' ton. II is uiitleistooil The.v are
said o lie praet icallv lil.ickmailiiig the
I xiisti lain, and Heiiuins. who ale gradu
ally los'l.i; control over their e III tit fill
Halk.m all
I .
RUSSIAN PREMIER RESIGNS.
I t.orcoit Kin ( leil lit , ,
tnerliier of oinicll oT Piniilre.
xKim ruble ltiiirh I n ' s .
PlTHOUII.XIi. Feb . .Premier (ioreluv
kin has ic-iuiicil on accoimi of health
His si ss,,r Is It. V Stuermer, a mem-
l.cr ol tile P ic! of the Lmplle.
M. cieiicmvliin was nnnieil ns Premier
by the Czar for the second lime nn i',,!,.
j ril.uy I mil, following the tesign,,.
lion in iicinnr ixoKotiod n ,s
earlier appointment as Priniicr lie sue.
ciedeil Count Witle In lltdil Tin le
tiling Premier is Tti yeats old. was
Minister of the Interior from IV.i.l un
til ixitji, when he was ttlsilaccil at th
insllgatinn id Count Wltte, then Min
ister of Flnanio, who disagreed, with
him mi the iigrailan iiuestlon.
M Hoiiinjklu has been ngaided as
of icioilon.iry ti uilencie.-. His appolnt
ineni to succeed M Hokovtzcirr In l;ii
was hailed as a triumph fin the ic.ic.
tiouaiv group
( iiiiscrlpllon HIM llnccllie VI up,
liNHON, Fell 1 The nnllt.ll'V servl....
I bill, which beiiime a law Wi'h Ihe affix-
lug of Ihe King's signature last week,,
will become eftectlve on Match accord
dig to Ihe .S'lcir
IMIiiitin lleerfcinl Kiinn smiimiii.
They test llliire- iy Moon tt ml ,.,. wliy
Miols at Hi Una. souihborough. Mam.
Jib.
vesterdav. 61: lowest, to.
and marine reports on past" IS.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
ZEPPELINSGOT
TO LIVERPOOL,
GERMANS SAY
3IaiK'liestcr and HirUcn
liead Also Attaeked. Ts
Teuton Claim.
SIX COUNTIES SUFFER
IX HKUJEST A IK HA ID
51 Killed and 7 Injured in
Xijrlit Visit ii!i) noinhs
Dropped.
FEAR MOliK DAMAGE
TO MUNITION WORKS
Ri'iti.sli lYess fin mors for
Effective Measures
Ajraiust Raiders.
29 IN HOUSE WRECKED
IN PARIS RAID RESCUED
Sprcfat Cnhlt icrvifcA tn Tnr Si.
Pints, I'eb, 1 Tweutx -nine ptr
lons living in a house which waj
wrecked by a bomb dropped by ths
Zeppelin In the raid of Saturday
night were tesotiod bv the pollen to
day. They had been Imprisoned In 0i
wreckage slnte Snturda', with all
exits blocked. While Imprisoned
they were fed by Iiaskeis lowcre-d
by ropes.
spmal I aUr rjMfr inl'iu SK,
LoNtsis-, lcb. l.-The '.eppelln
port. Liverpool, nit'kenlii'.id and Man
chester. I'lfty-foiir persons' arn said
to have been killed and sixty. seven
Injured,
lu the wolds .if the Urn i-li War
ailing of th"liOfl,. el,., s.l.l u "il,.. In, ..we . U
, N'o less than i2U bombs vvete elf.ipped.
No details were nniioun. e, hero otfl-
.... ., ,, . , .1
oidllj. liovvever. the War 1 nfn e slating
tiiat c.xitpt at Stalfonlshii e ihe ma
teriil tlallliVe tlolli' was slight. Tlio
ileim.'in Atlmualty, on the other band,
issued the follow lug stall incut, re
ceived here hv wireless to-ill. lit:
The Admit . ! t v reports that, on
.Mmiilav titg.it an airship squadron
threw boml.s on I .iv. n I. on the
I lit kcnho.nl docks and hotline and
factories, on Main heslei . hi I'm
blast furnaces at Nottingham and
Sheflitid and on the indutril ns
t.ibllslimonts mi tho llniiiier imir
(licit Yarmouth tin tin lluiniier
a battery was sllcnc'tl.
Tim airships wen heiii'v -ne'lccl
at all places, lint vvtic inc Ii ' Ml
ictiitiicd safely.
Th" lliuish War rilfi. c i- . ,1 . irly
tii-inglit th" follow lug si.i'. no ii. .
Yesterday's raid via- the luggest
-et. Two liilllill'cd ami iwenlv Imuil'i
weqe ilioppi'il on N'oiioll, Siiifolk,
I allcillllsllll o, l.eli'este Isliilc. Stlf
folib bile and I e b.vluri I ).x i pi at
Stnffordshilc the uiaiii,,' damage,
w is incoiisiili'i.ibli',
J'jo llooilis irtiiieil, .-. I Ivilh'il.
Several hours later the Io.,w.in
siiiperiiiiil.ir,v .ucoillll was i--ucil:
Further I'l'liolts nf I ,-t nlghi
raid show that tin- ex filing's .m,i. I s
t'overcil n mrger uiea H.ili mi any
previous occasion.
lliHiili" were ilroppiil m Nurfolk,
SlUTolk, Lincolnshire, laic esti rshlie,
St.ilTiirilshlrc nml I let bv s,u,., ''h,.
nuniber of bombs diiqipe.l is ist,.
iiialcd al .'Jo
ll.x. cpl lit one part ol Slalfiiiil
shire tlic m.iti rial iliiimigi tloiie was
not innsiderablc. in no t,ie was
,'iuv iiiiliturv d. linage dour.
Nn fin titer casualties nic iiporleil
The llgillcs remain llflj-fuur kH'cil
and sixty-seven Injured.
While none of the offi 1 1 st.ilsiueiits
issued to-da s.ves the iiii'u.u i of Zej..
pelius that i irti i.,tled in tit,. l,,i, t
raid, the squadron I biliend to have
colislrtcd of six or rev in ii.ifi. th.n
being the number given in jc-tculat '
first War uflim lepoit The fiet to it
almost at the sunn time lo'lliuii a s
cruisers appeatnl over Pins . com.
nieuteil IM'on heii' as liuli. ttiog that
HirmauN's prep.iraUups lor in,. ,,.,.,.
hcrililed aiii.il oie.itions on a I n .u
scale ale iiiniplctcil
'lr lfiiel. tin l.i i ernoiil,
Not mil), was
hUgest as i.ar.l
the Zeiiins, lull
1H to I"' belevil
estei il.it . ii,
Hie a e.i i.iv,. , , In.
if tin I Ii He ih 1 1 p, i 1 t
P W .1 - ,ll- . I -t
ol ami I arn, ' . , l.
time I'M! I. He,.
xx In. tt means lo Hi- i
what llobokiu me in,
were lioinb ti'dcil Tin
e it la i it t t
lo . w V" .,
all o i, otJ M ,,)
Chester and the othei 1 1 t 1 1 r I'nlus-
trial localities, as ' reiii tt d bv Heii n,
equally unpri cetlepted. The rild Is
token as the forerunner of an exleti m.
