I
WEATHER. V k 4 /% B' "From Press to Home
m4% fcW'XWrt ?fm wuhintheHour"
3srqgs^rjrv sr&8? %f LI I y ll I I f I I I I I I I I f I I , L=
tIW* >%/ ww /ir^VW'4
L ' f I ^ ^ v T ^ 7-1 r / v ^ Sworn Net Circulation. Month off Oocenter.
CLOSING NEW VORK STOCKS PAGR 1ft. ^ ^ r W,5? Dally ATerage, 74.4011 SnaOay. 56,031.
. ?
No. 20 216. WASHINGTON, D. C.. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1916.-TWENTY PAGES. ONE CENT.
? , ?
WOULD LAY UP APPAM
AS PRIZE OF WAR, BUT
U.S. MAY BALK ACTION
Lieut. Berg May Be Forced to Put to
Sea After Provisioning or Give
Up Ship.
Passengers Still Held on Board Captured British Vessel at
Old Point Until Ruling Is Received from
Washington?All Eager to Land.
NORFOLK, Va.. February 2.?While the United States government
considers what treatment shall be accorded her, the former
? ? - - ? rr r??^ If
British passenger liner Appam swings at ancnor on run mumuc
today, with her passengers and crew and unlooked-for guests, crews
of seven other captured British vessels, restlessly awaiting liberation
from their long confinement under guard of a German prize crew.
Until orders come from Washington no one will be permitted
*to land except Lieut. Berg, the prize crew commander. The customs
and immigration authorities now do not know who are civilians
entitled to liberty or who may be prisoners of war, or whether the
German prize crew constitutes an armed foreign expedition in
American territorial waters subject to internment.
Collector Hamilton, into whose jurisdiction the vessel fell when
she steamed into Hampton roads yesterday from her voyage across
the Atlantic, prepared today to make a personal investigation of conditions
aboard. He made a full report to the Treasury Department
last night, and momentarily is expecting instructions as to the disposition
of the ship.
It is understood here that Lieut. Berg has asked that the United
States permit him to lay up the Appam in Virginia waters as a fair
. prize of war, liberating at least all of the civilian passengers aboard
her at the time of her capture. Officials here do not think this will
be done, the impression being that Lieut. Berg will be informed that
unless he puts to sea after receiving provisions and fuel the liner cannot
be held as a prize.
Foodatafle Pot OB Board. countered the raider. In spite of a
_ , . , , ... . driving drizzle over Hampton roads.
Overnight a large supply of food- many of the passengers walked the
stuffs was loaded on the ship to All the decks today, looking with interest at
larder, almost empty when she entered formidable fortifications of Fort
the capee yesterday. Monroe a .few hundred yards away.
Prince von Hatzfeldt of the German Drop Notes Overboard.
embassy at Washington reached Old
Point early today to represent the . ?'anis received up to this mornGerman
government on the scene. He ,n^ or Pas8?nK?rs aboard the Appam
expressed the opinion that the Appam had not been delivered. The prisoners
would be regarded as a prize and all themselves were almost frantic in their
the civilians on board permitted to go ? . .. ,
on their ways. efforts to get their story to the world,
some or mem resorting to the hopeless
No New Light on Balder. expedient of dropping notes overboard
.a _ through portholes. After their sixteen
No new light was ro*" ' days of captivity all were anxious to
the story of the mysterious jerma Ret ashore and be free to go their
commerce raider which captured the ways
\t't>am and at least seven other British Although the Appam lay almost
. . ~ tH. African coast within the shadow of the frowning
. raft somewhere ofT the African coast. ^ ^ ^ FortreHS Monroe n0 pre<.autjon
Presumably she still roams tne seas, been taken by the government to
md those who have talked with per- | prevent any move on the part of the
?ons on board the Appam think it will j vessel or the landing of any of the
... .; Ks?e/>rsx : ^hip s company. C ollector Hamilton acl?e
only a matter of a short time before . ,epted the word of Lieut Berg\that
other evidences of her work appear in ; j,e v.-ould remain at anchor and every
\merican ports. * j one would be kept aboard until further
p,_ \rtrtftm has i 'nstruction8 came from the United
According to reports, the Appam nas |
on board a large quantity of explosives.. Bprobably
a ParMlh ?' I?'ca;rVmr? when Befuses Information,
general - cargo unc whs carrj ing ? """ I
caught, and the prize crew had rigged t Lieut. Berg refused to give any ino7a>risT ^fU't'hc
more than formation tb any newspaper men and
4..., prisoners held by the little prize would permit none of them to come
crew of twenty-two. At least, it is aboard while the status of the vessel still
h.iid, the threat of such a catastrophe rema
ined undetermined. He refused to
captiveanto' Tnaure'the'Ir"good behavior, identify himself other than to say that
he was a lieutenant In the naval reserve
Must Bemain on Board. and formerly was master of a German
It was understood last night that Sir merchant vessel. During his Interview
F. Meriweather. Governor of Sierre with Collector Hamilton he remark.* .ha.
many times he had been in the Norfolk
Leone, and many of the other first CU8tomhouse to enter and clear vessels
class oatbengers on the liner would be engaged in trade. He did not mention the
at lea at names of these vessels, however,
permitted to come a hore here at a u w<.n after dapk whe[J Ueut
temporarily for hotel accommodations. gerg- and Consul L.. Marshall von fichilt'ollector
Hamilton decided today, how- ung left Norfolk last evening after a
.?r .rat owing to the peculiar and conference with port officials. They
e most^ unprecedented questions In- want over to Old Point on the Mary/ ved
In the case all persons must re- land, a passenger boat plying between
main on board until the ships status Cape Charles and Norfolk. Both were
had been determined by Washington. dressed in civilian attire and mlng ed
The collector intimated that the Ap- Passengera without being
iaa ,,..1,1 v.,. taken to Nor- identified by more than a few of them.
?o,k Po" Newport NewS ?te t?ay?? most of whom were talking earnestly
tomorrow In order to facilitate the "f ,h? Appam and lte adventures.
SrthrflvinanV oTTer'sM^ c ny Held to Be Merchant Prize,
when the time comes. Immigration -The,., i, no doubt In the world that
vessel*t*oday and checked ""'the list ">e Appam Is a merchant prize." said
of persons aboard with a view to hav- Mr. von Schilling. "I expect to see the
tog everything in readiness for land- passengers landed soon and the prize
! * i crew permitted to remain on board."
Satisfied With Treatment. Mr. von Schilling was of the opinion
a aa. ^ that a submarine brought the Appam
fo far. only officials o e n e to bay, but declared he had no positive
JWstes Navy, customs service public aM8urance to thi8 effect> The conference
health service and immigration bu- -n wbich Lieut. Berg and Mr. von Schilreau
have boarded the Appam since nr.K participated at Norfolk was prot>.e
ollot left her at OIH P?in? !. ?
_ _ ??- - ~.... j ?v" ?/? lime real uiiorniaiioii about
fay. All of the officials say contil- | the actual circumstances of the capIons
on the ship are good and every- j ture.
body satisfied with the treatment given The Appam Is an attractive ship,
them by their captors. All ai?e anxious j painted black with white trimminrs.
to land, particularly the British colo- j She bears no false name nor has she
nial officials who were on their way been repainted. She shows no signs of
home from Africa when the Appam en- ' rough usage from the outside.
APPAMS CAPTAIN DESCRIBES
CAPTURE AND DASH TO THE U. S.
Crew and Passengers Locked in Staterooms.
Lieut. Berg Carefully Steers Clear of
British Cruisers on Ocean Lanes.
< >l,D POINT COMFORT, Va., Febru- | the Appam commander* told him. Fosary
2.?The Moewe was disguised as j ter brought the Appam in here yes*
a tramp steamer and carried a battery J terday, after she had reported as the
of heavy^guns concealed behind a false German steamer "Buffalo," and on the
forecastle head w hen she captured the way in lie talked with Capt. Harrison.
Appam, according to a story Carroll B. The story told by Foster is the only
Vo>ter, pilot, said that Capt. Harrison. (Continued on Tenth Page.)
TREATY MAY DECIDE
DISPOSAL OF APPAM
Officials Indicate It Will Supersede
Hague Convention in
Case of Prize Ship.
DEMAND MADE FOR LINER
BY BRITISH AMBASSADOR
Neutrality Board Meets and Considers
Facts of the Situation?State
Department Undecided.
State Department officials indicated
today that if the Appam,
the British passenger liner which
was brought into Norfolk yester-i
day by .. German prize crew, finally
is to be held as a prize, the
Prussian-American treaty of 1828
is more likely to govern the case
than is The Hague convention. '
This would mean that the Appam
would be turned over to her
German captors, and in that case
some German officials expressed
the view that the prize crew,
rather than let her fall back into
the hands of the British, as would
seem inevitable if she left port,
might take the ship to the threemile
limit and sink her.
In case she is held to have become
a German fleet auxiliary she
will have the choice of leaving
nnrt after a certain fim/? f^r cnr?_
I? - ??- ** k""v AVJ,i
plies or repairs or interning for
the war, as have the Prinz Eitel
Friedrich and the Kronprinz Wilhelni.
Provisions of Original Treaty.
The original Prussian-American I
treaty of 1799 provided: I
"The vessels of war, public and pri- |
vate, of both parties shall carry freely
wheresoever they please the vessels
and effects taken from their enemies
without being obliged to pay any
duty charges or fees to officers of ad mlralty,
of the customs or any others;
nor shall such prises be arrested, .
searched or put under legal process when I
they come to and enter the ports of the
other party, but may freely be carried
out again at any time by their captors
to the places expressed in their cornmissions
which the commanding officer
of such vessel shall be obliged
to show. j
nui, cuniorniaoiy 10 me treaties existing
between the United States and
Great Britain, no vessel that shall have
made a prize upon British subjects
shall have a right to shelter in the
ports of the United States, but if forced J
therein by tempest or any other danger
or accident of the sea, they shall be
obliged to depart as soon as possible."
This latter provision would have compelled
the departure of the Appam to
the almost certain fate of British
cruisers off the capes, but the treaty
expired by limitation in 1810 and when
it was renewed this latter provision c
which removed British vessels from the \
scope of the article was specifically .
eliminated and the treaty of 1828,
which now is in force, gives German a
prizes the right to come and go. \
Asks for Return of Ship. *
Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, the British am- v
bassador, today formerly asked Secre- a
tary Lansing for the release of the
Appam and return to her British own- c
ers under article 21 of The Hague con- *
ventlon, which the British authorities c
claim has superseded the Prussian- rAmerlcan
treaty. The Secretary took a
the ambassador's argument under con- f
sideration. w
British officials here scout the theory h
that the raider Moewe slipped through a
the Kiel canal under Swedish colors
and got out into the Atlantic. They h
have a theory she is a -German mer- j
chantman which got out of an Azores p
port nearly a year ago and has been r
missing since. They have no theory as
to how she got her armament. tl
Secretary Lansing said early today p
that the State Department had yet o
made no decision of the attitude to- p
ward the Appam. j(
Claimed as Prize of War.
Rear Admiral Beatty, commanding
the Norfolk navy yard, has reported
that Lieut. Berg claims the ship is a ii
prize of war. The German embassy v
has not yet determined whether it will s
claim the Appam is an auxiliary cruis- a
er or a prize.
The formalities surrounding the release t
of passengers and other non-combatants
on the ship will be taken up today. 11
It was made clear that the Navy De- u
partment would take no cognizahce of the v
Appam until the State Department had
decided her status.
Should it be decided that the vessel is
an auxiliary cru ser liable to internment, ;
it was said, the navy would provide a
marine guard. This would not be done, 5
however, until authorized by the State '
Department, and until then the vessel is
not held to be within the nrovincA of the
navy. r
Neutrality Board Meets. *
Early today the neutrality board, the ?
unofficial advisory body composed of t
James Brown Scott, former solicitor of ^
the State Department, and Capts. Knapp t
and Oliver of the navy, had a pre- *
lirninary meeting: and considered what j
facts have been gathered about the t
Appain. Any conclusions it reaches 1
are not binding: upon the State Department,
but are accepted as having
weight.
Officials pointed out today that the
case of the British collier Farn, cap- r
tured by the German cruiser Karlsruhe, |
renamed the Odenwald, and Anally interned
in San Juan, Porto Rico, might
be regarded as a somewhat similar ?
case. The British authorities contend- c
ed the Odenwald should be turned back a
to her British owners in the status of a a
prize, but the American government ^
held she had taken on the character of v
an auxiliary, and she was interned. r
Some officials expressed the opinion
that the cage was so complex and had
(Continued on Twelfth Page.) k
i
&
HOLIDAY IN TOPEKA
TO SEEPRESIDEN1
3opulation Lines the Streets
in Zero Weather as Mr.
Wilson Passes By.
3UEST OF THE GOVERNOR
DURING STAY IN CITY
Addresses 6.000 Persons at Municipal
Auditorium on Need
of Preparedness.
TOPEKA, Kan., February 2.?Presilent
Wilson reached Topeka, the turnng
point of his middle western tour
his forenoon. He was greeted with z
;alute of twenty-one guns and escorter
>y state troops through the principa'
itreets to the residence of Gov. Capper
vhose guest he was till 1 o'clock
vhen he addressed an audience in th<
Luditorium.
The President and Mrs. Wilson rod*
ver snow-pacKea streets in zerc
veather in open automobiles. A crowc
.heered them at the stable, but mosi
if the city's 50,000 population lined th<
lidewalks along the way to the gov.
trnor's resilience.
Although the weather was cold, the daj
'as clear. The President tucked the colir
of his great coat up behind his ears
nd Mrs. Wilson's face could hardly Ik
een for her furs.
The President was met at the statior
ere by Gov. Capper, republican; Mayoi
. E. House of Topeka and W. W. Webb
resident of the Commercial Club. Kansas
lational guardsmen held the crowd back
For the first time on the present toui
he President participated in a long street
arade, lasting forty-five minutes. Preeding
his automobile were several comlanies
of national guardsmen, and fol>wing
was a brass band playing populai
nd patriotic airs.
Topeka Takes a Vacation.
American flags had been distributed
n advance to the crowds along th?
eay. Schools held no sessions, th?
tatehouse employes were givefi a day of)
.nd city employes had a half-holiady.
At Gov. Capper's home he stood or
he porch for a moment and waved his
lat. With Mrs. Wilson, Secretary Turn
ilty and r>r. Cary Grayson he ther
irent into luncheon.
Gov. Capper, introducing the Presi
lent to the 6,000 persons gathered ir
he Municipal Auditorium, praised hin
or keeping the United States out oi
yar, but added: 'Many of us are noi
n accord * with the program of vast
.rmament." He continued: "We wel
ome the fullest discussion."
President Wilson arrived at Lawence
at 9:20 a.m. for the first Kansas
itop of his middle western trip. H?
vas greeted by a cheering crowd 01
leveral thousand, including students
rom Kansas University. The temperaure
was below zero and the grounc
vas covered with snow, but this die
lot lessen the enthusiasm of the peo>le.
A band played patrfotic airs anc
he students sang and gave their colege
yells. It was the noisiest crowc
he President has met. Half the popuation
of 13,000 was at the station.
His Farthest Point in West.
President Wilson touched the farthesi
oint west today in his tour of speak
ng for adequate national preparedness
The President's public address at th<
Luditorium is 011 the program for ]
'clock. He will leave for Kansas Cit)
it 3 p.m. to reach there at 5 and tc
peak again tonight in the conventior
tall there at 8 o'clock. At 11 p.m. hi
vill depart for St. Louis, where tonorrow
he will deliver his last adIress
of the tour.
Elaborate arrangements were madi
tere to meet the President and hit
k
THE SHADOW.
party and to entertain them during
their stay.
After the address at the auditorium
arrangements were made for the President
to address an overflow meeting
In the high school and thence to go
directly to his train. A flve-minute
talk from the rear platform of his car
at Lawrence, Kan., e?n route to this
city is on the program.
kripf Stnn at Tfnncaa Cltr.
KANSAS CITY. Mo., February 2.?
President Wilson arrived here today at
7:48 a.m.. en route from Des Moines,
Iowa, to Topeka, Kan., where he will
make two addresses this afternoon. He
left here at 8:12 a.m. on a special Santa
Fe train. There was a small crowd
of people at the station, hut they were
unable to see the President, who was
still asleep.
Careful plans have been made to assure
privacy for President and Mrs.
Wilson from the time of their arrival
from Topeka until 8 o'clock, when
they will enter the hall. At their hotel
the two will dine in private. Another
. dinner will be served, at which Joseph
P. Tumulty, the President's secretary,
will be host to newspaper men accompanying
the party.
A feature of the meeting; which the
President will address will be the presentation
of a small flat? to every one
who enters Convention Hall.
Plans for St. Louis Reception.
ST. LOUIS, Mo., February 2.?Although
the police board has detailed
*>00 uniformed patrolmen for duty during
President Wilson's stay in St.
Louis tomorrow, not one of the policemen
will get a glimpse of the President
if he obeys orders. Each policeman
will be instructed to keep his back
turned to the President ami his eyes
on the crowd only.
Immense Throng at Des Moines.
DES MOINES, Iowa, February 2.?
The President and Mrs. Wilson were
met at the station here last evening by
a committee representing various civic
bodies. Four companies or national
guardsmen, with the entire'' police
force of the city, held back the large
crowd, which packed the sidewalks all
the way to the hotel. The progress
of the President was marked by cheers.
A closed automobile was used by the
President, for the temperature was
near zero. Both Mr. and Mrs. Wilson
were wrapped in furs.
Eight thousand persons swarmed into
the Coliseum, taking every available
foot of space, when the doors were
opened at 6:30. At 7 o'clock, an hour
before the President was to speak, the
doors to the Mr hall were locked.
Ten thousand or more, the police es'
timated, were turned away.
i At the Coliseum the President stood
, directly in front of two great Ameri'
can flags as he faced the audience.
' Every man, woman and child in the
Coliseum had an American flag. As
. the President entered they cheered
i wildly. President Wilson looked down
i upon a fluttering forest of flags.
(The President's address is printed
, in another column.)
Trip Marred by Accident.
, j President Wilson's special train
1 j backed into a crowd of 3,000 persons
? I at the railway station at Grinnell yest
I terday and knocked down half $
- dozen children, several of whom fell
under the train and between the rails.
They were dragged out unhurt before
the wheels reached them.
The President was on the back platform
at the time,, just about to shake
the hands of a baby held up to him by
its mother. The smile on the President's
face quickly gave way to a look
of alarm. He straightened up and
shouted "Stop the train." National
Guardsmen and secret service men 011
the platform threw back the crowd.
: Most of those directly in the pathway
of the train were women and children.
The sudden backward motion of the
train was caused, it is said, by the
engineer taking up slack to get a start.
I The train backed fully twenty feet
before it was brought to a stop.
5 Financial Conference in Vienna.
1 VIENNA, February 1, via London,
r February 2.?Dr. - Karl HelfTerich, the
> imperial German treasuser, has arrived
\ here and is conferring with the AustroI
Hungarian finance ministers and the
. governors of the Austro-Hungarian
bank on measures having gs their obi
ject closer financial And economic re1
lations between the two empires.
?
-*"!!EE5^ ^
<
1
1
<
]
n 11 nim/i runrnm
oALUNIW tAKtU 15
AN EARLYATTACK
German and Bulgar Troops to.
Be Supported by 150,000
Turks.
SEVERAL PERSONS KILLED
BY BOMBS FROM ZEPPELIN
Windows Smashed in Building Occupied
by the Allies as
Headquarters.
ATHENS, February i. via
Paris, February 2, 11:35 a.m.?
Information received in military
quarters here indicates that German
and Bulgarian troops, supported
by 150,000 Turks, are likely
to begin an attack on the
Franco-British forces at Saloniki
about February 15.
Fourteen Reported Killed. t
SALONIKI, February 1, via Paris,
February 2.?Two Greek soldiers, five
refugees and seven workmen were
killed and fifty civilians were injured
by the inflammable bombs dropped
early this morning from the Zeppelin
in the raid already reported.
I No damage was done to military
buildings, and the population has remained
calm.
a
Munitions Ship in Peril. t
LONDON, February 2.?The casualties
in the Zeppelin raid at Saloniki
were eleven killed and fifty injured, according
to a dispatch to the Daily Mail f
from Saloniki. One bomb exploded in
the water close to an English ship unloading
a cargo of munitions. The
ship's hull was perforated. 1
Another bomb broke several windows a
in the general headquarters building of the
entente allies. This building ap- ~
parentlv was the object of the attack.
The Zeppelin, the dispatch says, flew
at a height of only a thousand feet.
SAYS VON PAPEN FRAMED
PLOT TO BLOW UP CANAL
LONDON, February 2, 5:5oj
p.m.?According to a statement
made by the authorities here today,
Bridgman Taylor, detained
here on the charge of having
failed to register as an alien
enemy, has made a confession to
the effect that Capt. Franz von
Papen, recalled German military
attache at Washington, organized
the plan for blowing up the Welland
canal.
Gen. Dolares of Salvador Dead.
LA LTBERTAD. Salvador, February
2.?Gen. Jose Dolares, for years prominent
in the political history of Salvador,
is dead.
V * '
FAVORABLE REPORT
ON BOTHTREATIES
Senate Committee Acts on
Pacts With Colombia and
Nicaragua.
$25,000,000 INDEMNITY '
IS CUT TO $15,000,000
Apology for the Panama Incident Is
Amended So as to Be
Hade Mutual.
The Colombian and Nicaraguan
treaties, which have been pending
for more than a year before the
Senate foreign relations committee,
were ordered favorably reported
to the Senate today by
that committee.
Before ordering the report on
the Colombian treaty it was
amended so as to reduce the indemnity
which the United States
is to pay to Colombia from
$25,000,000 to $15,000,000. -This
money is regarded as a sop to
the Colombians for what occurred
at the time that Panama
became independent and the
United States obtained the Panama
Canal Zone.
"Apology" Is Made Mutual.
The treaty was further modified so
as to make the "apology** of this
country to Colombia as originally contained
in the treaty a mutual affair.
In which both the United States and
Colombia expressed regret for what
had transpired.
The vote by which the Colombian
treaty was ordered reported was 8 to 7,
one democrat. Senator Clarke of Arkansas.
voting with the republicans
against the treaty." One republican.
Senator McCumber, was not present,
and one democrat, Senator Shively,
also was absent. Had both been present
tfie vote would have been to all
intents and purposes the same.
Senator Borah of Idaho made a motion
to the effect that the debate on
the Colombian treaty should be in the
3pen Senate and not behind closed
loors. Some of the senators expressid
a desire to consider this question,
and Senator Borah agreed to let his
nouon go over until tne next meeting
)f the committee, next week.
All of the republican members of the
committee are opposed to the Colombian
treaty and will make a deternined
fight against it in the Senate,
rhat the democrats can muster a two-*
;hirds majority for the ratification of
he treaty?the necessary majority?
s not believed possible.
When questie?ned as to the reason for
educing the amount of the sum to be
bald Colombia, one of the republican
nembers of the committee said that he
:hought perhaps it was to "cut down
i little what the lobbyists will get."
The Nicaraguan treaty was ordered
eported out by a vote of 10 to 3, in
vhich party lines were broken, some
>f the republicans supporting the
reaty. Those who voted against the
reaty were Senators Smith of Michigan.
Borah and Clarke of Arkansas,
t provides for a protectorate of a kind
>ver Nicaragua by the United States
ind also would have the United States
bay to Nicaragua $3,000,000 for inter>ceanic
canal rights through that
country.
The Haitian treaty was allowed to
?o over until the next meeting of the
committee.
Firm Against Nicaragua Pact.
Senator William Alden Smith of
Michigan plans to keep up his fight in
he Senate against the Nicaraguan
reaty, which he considers an outrage
ipon the people of Nicaragua and a
nere means on the part of some
Cicaraguans to obtain money from the
Jnited States.
It was at the request of Senator
Smith that action on the Nicaraguan
reaty was postponed by the committee
ast week until today. As it was. Senaor
Smith managed to get here in time
or the meeting today only by strenuous
efforts. He was in California, and
?is trip east was seriously hampered
>y the floods which have devastated ,
>'] pfa nf tVia oniltll VI' pst Snma nf tVia !
ourney Senator Smith had to make in
rowboat, and at another point he had
o cross the floods on a raft.
British Steamer Strikes Mine.
LONDON, February 2.?The steamer
'rinzess Juliana, plying between Lonon
and Flushing, struck a mine in the
?*orth sea and has been beached at
Felixstowe, Suffolk. The passengers
nd crew were rescued.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senatet
Met at noon.
Resumed debate on Philippines
Independence bill.
Public lands committee began
hearings on oil land leasing bill.
Foreign relations committee
recommended ratification of Colombian
and Nicaraguan treaties
reducing proposed indemnity to
Colombia for canal strip from
$25,000,000 to $15,000,000.
House i
Keating bill to regulate child
labor under debate.
New standing committee on
Snnrf nnntrnl. oomnrisinc
members, proposed by rules committee.
Military and naval committees
continued hearings on defense
legislation.
DISTRICT IN CONGRESS.
House:
Brig. Gen. William E. Harvey,
commanding the District of Columbia
militia, appeared, with
others, before the House committee
on public buildings and
grounds, asking for a favorable
report on the Dyer bill for JLn
irmory in Washington. Q
2s
BERLIN HAS SENT
NEW INSTRUCTIONS
IN LUSITANIA CASE
Reported to Give "Reasonable
Hope for a Positive
Understanding."
FAILURE OF NEGOTIATIONS
TO JANUARY 29 ADMITTED
Semi-Official Statement Isined in
Answer to "Alarming: British
Reports."
NOT RECEIVED AT EMBASSY
German Representatives Here Do
Not Exprct New Advices to
Arrive Before Tomorrow.
BERLIN, February 2. by wireless
to Sayville, N. Y.?Instructions
have been sent by the German
government to Ambassador
von Bernstorff of Washington of
such a nature as to give "reasonable
hope for a positive understanding"
concerning the Lusitania
affair, it was announced
here- today.
Seml-Official Announcement.
The announcement, which is of a
semi-official nature, is said by the Overseas
News Agency to have been made
"in connection with alarming English
reports about the nature of GermanAmerican
relations." The text of the
statement is given by the news agency,
as follows:
"It is true that on Saturday, January
29. a telegraphic report from the German
ambassador at Washington- arrived
at Berlin, showing that up to
that time it had been impossible to
adjust the Uusitania case in a manner
satisfactory to both sides by friendly
verbal exchanges of views. On Tuesday
instructions were transmitted by
telegraph to the German* ambassador
which give reasonable hope for a pool- *
tive understanding."
New Advices Not Here.
At the German embassy it was stated
today that Count von Bernstorff had
received no instructions from Berlin, and
that if such instructions ha,d been
cabled by the foreign office February 1
they would not be expected here much
1 before tomorrow.
If the instructions conie bv cable
they will be transmitted through the
American embassy at Berlin, which, at
the instruction of the State Department,
has placed its facilities for communication
between Count von Bernstorff
and his foreign office at the disposal
of the German government, so
that the Lusitania exchanges would not
have to pass through the British censorship.
Hopeful View Is Taken.
None of the embassy officials would
venture an opinion as to what the instructions
referred to as giving "reasonable
hope for a positive understanding,"
although they expressed the hope
that they would be satisfactory to the
United States.
Count von Bernstorff's last communication
to the foreign office transmitted
a full statement of what the American
government asks.
GRECE AND RUMANIA
REPORT IN COMPACT
Object of Convention Said to Be r
the Continnance of
Neutrality.
LONDON, February 2, 1:4c
p.m.?The Adeverul, a newspaper
of Bucharest, declares that Greece
and Rumania have signed a dual
neutrality convention, according
[ to a dispatch received here by
wireless telegraphy from Rome.
Rumania Under Arms.
PETROGRAD, February 1, via London,
February 2.?In connection with
the negotiations which are alleged to
be proceeding between Greece and Rumania,
and the report that Rumania is
ready to form an anti-Bulgarian alliance,
it is stated here that four-fifths
of the Rumanian troops are under arms
and that the main Rumanian forces are
concentrated on the Bulgarian and
Hungarian frontiers, while the troops
on the Russian frontier have not been
Increased.
Concentration on Danube*
Rumania continues to make difficulties
for the central powers with respect
to the purchase of grain, which
difficulties have been increased by the
British authorities, who are buying
large quantities and driving up the
nrioco With the Duroose of exertina
pressure on Rumania, Austro-Bulgarian
troops are concentrating: on the
Danube.
Floods Bain 120,000 Houses in Java
LONDON, February 2.?Cable dispatches
from Batavla report that floods .
are continuing in Central Java. Thus
far 120,000 native houses have turn
wrecked, a grea't quantity of cattle
drowned and many miles of railway
line destroyed. The property damage
has not yet been estimated, but b of
serious proportion.
