VOL. 52 NO. 28
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., WEDNESDAY, FEB. 2, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
MISS SOMERSET,
B. H. S. TEACHER,
IS DEAD AT 58
Delayed Operation Results
Fatally to Woman Who '
Served City Well.
, 1
THOUSANDS MOURN
FORMER PRECEPTOR
Last Days Clouded By Re
port That Man Was To '
Have Her Place.
After a. life of service to the city of
Bridgeport which, was, concluded last
Friday, Margaret Faith Somerset, one
of the beet known and best loved edu
cators of this vicinity, died et St. Vin
cent's hospital." New York- city, at 1
Raises E
Tax B
Of
n Rent, Due To
oosts. Rob Labor
lew-Found
enefits
STAR WITNESS
IN BORINO CASE
CAN'T BE FOUND
Landlords Forced To Increase Rentals Because of
Enormous Demands of City Treasury and
.Workers Must Pay Their Share Towards Sup
port of Mismanaged Administration.
Two Weeks' Search by State
Police Fails to Locate
Mrs. Roquette.
PROSECUTION MAY
SUFFER, IS BELIEF
Has your rent been raised yet?
This is a question nearly everybody is asking of nearly
everybody else.' When the boost in valuation of dwelling houses
took place landlords began to increase rents. The announce
ment bv City Auditor Bernard F. Keating', that the tax ' rate
Much Speculation Over Disr
appearance in Local Po
lice Circles.
Disappearance of the principal wit
ness in the case of Ralph Borino,
former rniirt iTiternretpp i r a i-i m t1 i
- - i .J i . i t t-w-i -r -1 1 i i ixi i : . . r . i . : I
wuuiu liixve tu ue X.l miliS acceieraieu me upeittiiun ui laiomg, cated the state's prosecution, and un-J
and thousands of tenants alreadv have received notice that they less .search discloses the witness'
S'tllrSrS'moUto JSd 'must Pa frm $2 to 5 a month more for the homes they OC- whereabouts, progress will be Inter-
ruptea.
Many landlords had postponed raising rents, and have now I.
added the entire charge occasioned to them by the rate and to find Mrs. Margaret Roquette,
valuation increases of the past three years. '
Tha average increase per family is. estimated as in the ert f. Adams of Stamford and after
neighborhood of $36 a year, a sum which takes from workmen, her release she left the city.
1 1M XI . v . i, 7 x I. v."--" xla. uccn 6 x.x
wnoOnSUlUW ine rUlK OI rjriageport S pupuitmuu, a. very large New York for two weeks without
'"' 15 B5
APPARfl ti phevm
oral Br fir raw fMnirnnn
ill. ill lia
END LUSITANIA D
W NOTE
FF MAY
Ti
, had been one of 'the most versatile and
accomplished instructors in the em
i ploy of the city and during this period
v had helped prepare' thousands of
young- men and women for life. All of
these counted her as; friend and !all
feel a deep' personal loss at her death.
Although she xiad been ill for some
- time Miss Somerset continued at her
work' until the close of the session on
, Friday. On Saturday she Journeyed
to New York for a long needed opera
tion, which was performed on Mon
day. , The strain was too severe and
the end came this morning.
While friends who knew of, her
, plans to undergo the operation, en
couraged her, Miss Somerset herself
tola them that she aid not expect to
cupy.
nart. of tiro neruniarv Rrivantne-fis. cained bv the recent strikes success. Mrs. Roquette's old haunts
, ,j . , I, ' x . , were sought by a woman detective.
and the settlements that came irom them. but the witness couldn't be located.
In some cases the strike was settled upon the basis of an As she was expected to be the state's
eight hour day with ten hours, pay. Such workers retain the
short hours- but the higher rent makes them worse off than
survive it and before leaving, made they were in a financial way, by amounts ranging from $25 to
suggestions to a teach and great per-, ajoft ariri i,,mnr " !
sonal triends at the High school con
cerning arrangements for her funeral.
While the announcement of the ar-
rangeraenta will not be made until
after the arrival late this afternoon,
of her brother. Dr. William Somerset,
of New York, it Is said that her wish
that! she be buried from Trinity Epis
copal church with the full service of
that denomination will be carried out.
' For several years she had been an
active- communicant of this church
and. at the time of her death- was sec
retary of its Women's Auxiliary. .
The last few days of Miss ,SomerT
' set's life were clouded. Realizing the
necessity of undergoing surgical treat
ment, she made application to Super
intendent Samuel f J. Slawson of the
- public schools, for leave of absence;
She recommended a substitute.
Just before entering the hospital,
: she confided to Intimate friends that
' she was appraised, when she made
- application for leave, that the depart
ment of- education was considering 'the
advisability of supplanting her with a
- male teacher. - In tears, she spoke of
' the ingratitude that such a proceeding
' would bespeak f or a , city to which
she had given service so long and so
conscientiously.
Miss : Somerset was born in Port
land, Conn, 58 years ago. . She was
graduated from Middletdwn High
school when very young and then
took a special course of a few. months
at New Britain Normal school. For
four years she taught in the grade
schools of Portland and Middletowjn.
In 1878 she 'came to Bridgeport to
teach in1 (the primary department of
Waterville school. For the next
four years she taught in various
schools in the city, and in 1882 was
transferred to Congress street school
' where she had . charge of the ninth
(Continued on Page 2.
one CASE
WITNESSES
ARRESTED
Wife and Sister of Spellman,
One of Defendants, Are
Held for Perjury As Trial
Is Nearing Its Close.
x Providence, R. I., Feb. 2 Mrs. Bes
sie N.' Spellman, the wife, -and Mrs.
Gertrude Dailr, a sister of Henry H.
Spellman, on trial with Mrs. Eliza
beth F. Mohr, and C. Victor Brown,
feu- the murder of Dr. C. Franklin
Mohr, were arrested today on a
charge of perjury. The women . had
testified at the morning session and
- had given evidence in support of an
alibi for Spellman.
The first intimation by the state
that it was preparing to lay founda
tion for perjury charges came up on
i the cross-examination of Mrs. Daily,
who denied that in a statement to the
grand Jury she had declared she did
not know what time Spellman return
ed home the night of the killing. To
day she explained that she did know
"because she heard him.
William H. Lewis, counsel' for'
Brown, objected to this line of ques
tioning, although the court "held that
it was proper as it was the only way
by which the state could attempt the
prosecution on. such a charge.
Mrs. Spellman testified that, on the
night of the murder her husband,
with whom she was not living at the
time, came to her mother's home,
where she was stopping, and after get
ting something to eat, went to his sis
ter's home to sleep.
After court adjourned Attorney
General Rice told Attorney Lewis that
lie would have warrants issued imme
diately for the arrest of two witnesses
for the defense, unless Mr. Lewis
agreed to have( the two go on the
stand this afternoon and "tell the
truth."
"We have no statements to with
draw," replied Mr. Lewis.
Mrs. Spellman and Mrs. Dailey, the
witnesses to whom Mr. Rice said he
referred, were later arrested and
. taken to police headquarters. i
principal witness in the prosecution
of Borino, her loss will be felt.
Police say friends of Borino are
boasting that he'll be a free man in
another week.
Robert F. Adams, of Stamford, a
, According to the census for 1910, 25,000 odd wage earners "Lt0';th" 'rJlr,
in Bridgeport, including men and women, earned an average Mrs.. Roquette. when Adams became
wage of slightly more than $500 a year. Some earned a-great acquainted with the nature or me
deal'mOTe, and Some a great deal less. . ., ' ' Borino was released from the
AmAn? women wafffi earners, as amoner men. were many, county jail last night upon bonds of
C7 -- ' w ' ' ' I II RAfl halno fnpnioha Tiir Pall.ffHnnn
the heads of families, widowed or otherwise, drawing scanty
Aurilio, a saloonkeeper, of 87 Clarence
pay. The labor settlement in many cases gained these women street. He had been out on the same
shorter hours, but not higher pay. At any rate all such women, F. Adams of Stamford, but his bonds-
finrJ thfimsplvfts wnrss nff than thev were, bv the larfirer SUmS man surrendered him on-Thursday,
.,, . . . . . . ' Jan. 27. Adams has also furnished
they are required to pay for rent, a consequence which m many bonds of $1,500 for the freedom of
cases' they do not trace to municipal extravagance, since they Mrs. Margaret Rouquette, arrested
do not 'pay direct taxes and do not understand the means by aa state's witness, according to the
which taxes are levied and collected. '" ' I prosecution.
, : . . :..j 1 wnen Aaams learnea me cnarge
With respect to male workers, many have received very I wnlcn ,Borlllo was held was a 8er.
large increases. But many others got eight hours with ten hours ious one. he ordered counsel to jmve
pay, and find. their incomes largely diminished. 3., v . ndthnenty authorities. a
In shite of waere increases it is probable the average pay in t search was made for Borino but he
Bridgeport is under 20 cents an hour, and the average wage but Elsrewas
Slightly Over $10 a' Week. ' ' found Jan. 17 by Policeman Joseph
A1o,r muu;ii 1-r.nr.V1 mnt.o hut rnanv rpffllvft much less . I ougnim in jucxixi sireei.
. XX (1.XX I O V.. V... A V Ill UV.ll X 1 1 W I. w , J i . v - - -
Viewed from any angle; municipal extravagance has placed a
trying burden upon thousands of men and women struggling to
get along in a market in which the cost of living is constantly
increasing.
It was said today that the authorities count on the indig
nation over the high taxation, to enable them to put over more
bonds.. The pro bonding element will argue, as it did two years
ago, that no bonds means more taxes, but wiir ignore the fact
that more bonding also means inoretaxes ana means it lor a
long time" to come.
Leading business men," all over the city, are deprecating the
extravagance and waste which has produced an unpleasant sit
uation. They realize that the well being of Bridgeport requires
the cost of living to be .at least as low as the cost of living in
other, cities. They know that wages must be not nominally but be a native of Kief, Russia, arrested
y.icrV, r.tn enmnared With Other Cities, in order that here late yesterday through the ac
ttoiu.iiij .. . . , . - 1 , tivities of United States .secret service
Bridgeport may attain HS maximum inuusinai grow iu, aim prus- agents, wil be taken from Hartford
s 10 wasningcon lor a iurmer investi
Berlin, Feb. 2 By wireless to Say-
ville Instructions have been sent by
the German government to Ambassa
dor Von Bernstorff at Washington of
such a riature as to give "reasonable
hope for a positive understanding"
concerning the Lusitania affair, it was
announced here today.
The announcement, which of a
semi-official nature, is said by the
Overseas News Agency to have been
made "in connection with alarming
English reports about the nature of
German-American relations." The
text of the statement is given by the
news agency as follows:
"It is true that on Saturday, Jan.
29, a telegraphic report from the Ger
man ambassador at Washington ar
rived at Berlin, showing that up to
tha time it had been impossible to
adjust the Lusitania case in a man- j
ner satisfactory to both sides ' by
friendly verbal exchanges of views. On
Tuesday, instructions were transmit
ted by telegraph to the German Am
bassador which gives reasonable hope
for a positive understanding."
Washington, Feb. 2 At the Ger
man embassy it was stated today that
Count Von Bernstorff had received
no instructions from Berlin and that
if such instructions had been cabled
by the foreign office on Feb. 1 they
would not be expected here much be
fore tomorrow.
None of the embassy officials would
venture an opinion as to what the
instructions referred to as giving
"reasonable hope for a positive un
derstanding," although they express
ed the hope that they would be satis
factory to the United States.
State Department May Ac
cept Commander's View
That Ship Is Prize and
Turn Her Back to Captors,
Who May Sink Her Off
Capes.
German Embassy Official
Visits Lieut. Berg Ves
sel Carried Treasure In
Boullion Release of Pas
sengers to Be Taken Up
Today.
SECRET SERVICE;
MEN TO PROBE
FEDEROFF CASE
Man Arrested at Arms Work
Alleged to Have Altered
Naturalization Papers
Theodore Federoff, who claims to
THRONG STANDS
IN GOLD TO HEAR
PRESIDENT TALK
First Stop In Kansas Made
at Lawrence, Where
College Boys Sing
Lawrence, Kaa., Feb. 2. President
Wilson made his first Kansas sxop
here. He was greeted by a cheering
crowd of several thousand, including
students from Kansas University. The
temperature was b?ew zero and the
ground covered with snow, but a band
played patriotic airs and the students
sang and gave their college yells.
OLD HIGH SCHOOL
WILL TAKE UPPER
GRADE STUDENTS
and
Pupils of Seventh
Eighth . Grades in Four
Schools To Be Removed.
Topeka, Kas.. Feb. 2. President
Wilson touched the furthest west
point today, in his tour of speaking for
national preparedness. After his ad
dress at' Des Moines, at "1 p. m., he will
leave for Kansas City, to reach there J
at 5 oclock, speaking again tonight.
At 11 p. m. he will depart for St. Louis
where tomorrow he will deliver his
last addres of the tour.
Kansas City, Feb. 2. President Wil
son arrived here today at 7:48 a. m.,
en route from Des Moines, Ia, to To
peka, Kas. He left here at 8:12 a. m.
The small crowd at the station were
unable to see the President who was
still asleep. '
ANOTHER THRONG TO
DEMAND TAX RELIEF
Again the office of the board of
relief was besieged today with prop
erty owners who desired to appeal
from the assessments levied against
them. -
To relieve congestion in schools of
the city, the board of education will
utilize the old High school building
for eighth and seventh grade work
after Feb. 14. After January, 1917,
the building will be used for pre-vo-cational
work entirely.
"Schools Nos. 1, 3, 6 and 5 will
be relieved when the new Bridgeport
High school building is opened," said
Samuel J. Slawson, superintendent of
schools this morning. "The eighth
grades, the seventh in some cases.
will be transferred. This will give
full time to the pupils of those
schools. The eight grades will be
maintained as before in the four
schools mentioned.
"We will continue this arrange
ments for the rest of.the year. , By
that time we probably will have made
arrangements for using the school for
pre-vocational work." ' y
The schools involved are Prospect,
City Normal, Washington and Maple
wood. Pupils , in the upper grades
there, are on part time. The classes
will be so divided ' that, between the
high school building and the jgrade
schools, all the pupils will receive full
time instruction.
About 300 boys and girls will be
transferred to the High school building.
gation into the alleged alteration of
his naturalization - papers disclosed
when he applied ' to the Remington
Arms plant for employment.
United States Secret Service Agent,
Capt. R. M. Davies, and Detective
Frank Cantillion, both at the Arms
plant, examined the application for
naturalization papers of Federoff
when he applied for a position at the
factory. The papers were sent to
Examiner John M. Church at Boston
and the latter in reply said that the
application presented to the factory
officials was false as the dates and
name of Federoff were not the same
as the original which was filed with
Church.
Federoff gave the name of Heinan,
age 22, of 181 Atlantic street, on the
application which he presented at
the Arms Company employment of
fice. He has been in this country for
seven years and came here from
Bethlehem, Pa., where he is said to
have taken a prominent part in the
labor movement. . He is alleged to
have been active in San Francisco
about five years ago.
Federoff was arrested by Detective
George Fox yesterday afternoon and
he was taken to. Hartford this morn
ing by Henry J. Jentzer, special agent
of the Department of Justice at Wash
ington. . Federoff will be taken to
Washington where a further investi
gation will be made. .
ONLY 150 PAY TAXES
About 150 men had paid their per
sonal taxes up to noon today. There
are nearly 22,000 persons liable for
the tax.
THIRTEEN DEAD IN WRECK.
Tl Paris, Feb 2 rLatest reports of the
wreck of the Calais Express yesterday
at the St. Denis Railway Station near
Paris, show that there were 13 . .dead
and 46 injured. Nine of the dead were
women. Among ' the injured is
Mademoiselle Ellis Level, Red Cross
nurse.
SENATE REJECTS
AMENDMENT TO
PHILIPPINE BILL
CONCEDE NINE
HOUR DAY FOR
CRANE WORKERS
Increased Wages Promised
in Bulletins Posted In
Local Plants. -
BIG CONCERN JOINS
50-HOUR WEEK RANKS
Adjustment of Schedule Will
Be Made Feb. 28, An
nounces Firm.
FIRE BOARD TO
PENSION CLERK,
D. CLIFFORD HALL
Commissioners Are Expect
ed to Name Leonard's Can
didate As His Successor.
HAS BEEN CLERK OF
BOARD FOR 14 YEARS
The Crane Co. of this city posited
bulletins yesterday announcing that
the 50 -hour week will be instituted
in the two local plants of the com
Many. As soon as conferences
make arrangements.. wage adjust
ments will toe made, with upward re
vision. . -
The 10-hour day has 'been in .force
four days a week at the Crane plant
for a long time and the change will
be welcomed. Workmen struck, last
summer for shorter hous, but, be
cause of conditions, the company did
not grant their request.
In labor circles today, it was con
ceded that the efforts of the Inter
national .. Molders' Union officials in
this city, who have used tact and skill
in their negotiations, precipitated the
change. '
The new schedule of hours will be
in force Feb. 28. As soon after that as
plans may be completed, the new
schedule of wages will be in force.
A Tneeting of molders will be .held
at 8 o'clock tomorrow evening in
Philips' hall, 172 Willard street.
LINERS, CRASHING
IN NIGHT, AFLOAT,
SAYS RADIOGRAM
Wireless Reports Japanese
. and American Ships
Still Above Water
Washington, Feb. 2. The Senate re
jected today, 59 to 16, an amendment
by Senator Cummings to the Philip
pine bill which would give the people
of the islands their independence only
after they had voted in favor of being
freed from (United States control.
THE WEATHER
For Connecticut: Snow and sleet
tonight and Thursday; fresh and
northeast and east winds.
Halifax, N. S., Feb. 2 The Jap
anese steamer Takata Maru and the
steamer Silver Shell, which were re
ported to have been in collision 200
miles southeast of Cape Race last
night, were afloat at 4 o'clock . this
morning, at which hour a wireless
was reewved at Cape Race, N. - F.,
from the Takata.
The message addressed to the agent
of the Marine and Fisheries aepart-
ment, by the Cape Race wireless sta
tion, read: '
'At 4 a. m., received wireless Tak
ata Maru. Reports engineroom and
stokehold flooded. Takata Maru also
. ... il.,.. , . i x . . ,j i .1 : '
irvxxetx 1 1 n i. ij .A w ueea oeixtiiiis
out numerous calls for assistance and
that the steamer Silver Shell was
standing by. The Silver Shell reports
all well." t
Weather conditions two hundred
miles off the southeast coats of New
Foundland were favorable today to
small boats adrift on the Atlantic. 'A
storm passed off the New Foundland
coast yesterday, but it was not a
heavy one.
If the Takata Maru and the Silver
Shell met 200 miles southeast of Cape
Race, no vessel from this port could
reach the scene before tomorrow. It
is known that several trans-Atlantic
vessels are approaching the -position
last given by the Silver Shell.
Hoseman John Kelly Slated
for Transfer, According
to Report
. D. Clifford Hall, fourth assistant
chief and clerk of the fire department
will' probably be- retired on - pension
when the fire board meets tonight.
Chief Hall has been ill for several
years and since before Christmas has
been unable to attend his duties and
has been obliged to keep to his home,
in Laurel avenue. Mrs. Chris Schread
who has been his assistant for about
18 months is doing the work of the
office.
Mr. Hall was appointed clerk of the
department in 1902 When the salary
was made $1,200. From that time
until July 16, 1914 he had to go be
fore the board for election yearly.
Then he was made permanent clerk
and assistant chief. The salary now
is $1,700 yearly. His pension if re
tired will be half of this sum.
A clerk at, the Crane Co., -tine selec
tion of President John A. Leonard
of the fire, board is said to be slated
to succeed him at a salary of $1,200
Hoseman John Kelly who was injur
ed some time ago and has since been
doing watch duty at No. 2 Chemical
house" will be transferred to No. ; 5
house tonight, according to report.
SURVIVOR ADMITS
HE OWNED PISTOL
IN AUTO TRAGEDY
Buffalo, N. X., Feb. 2 John Ed
ward Teiper, detained in connection
with the Orchard Park tragedy, ad
mits the ownership of the revolver
found 75 feet from the automobile in
the Orchard Park road, according to
announcement by District Attorney
Dudley at noon today. He said he
bought the weapon -ten days ago but
at first denied ownership. The ad
mission came after the ownership
had been traced..
TWO KILLED, MANY
HURT AS BOILERS
IN SHOP EXPLODE
BRITISH REPLY TO
U. S. PROTEST SOON
London, Feb. 2 Great Britain's re
ply to the American note on the Brit
ish blockade is expected within ten
days.
New Brunswick, N. J., Feb. 2 Two
men, employes, were killed and sev
eral others injured by a boiler explo
sion followed by Are which destroy
ed the plant of the Howe Rubber Co.
in Northern New Brunswick township
today. ,
The property loas was estimated at
between $75,000 and $100,000.
Can't Place Blame
For Lynching of Five
Leesburg, Ga., Feb. 2 The Lee
County Grand Judy announced here
last night that its investigation into
the lynching of five negroes near here
Jan. 20 had proved futile. In its
presentments, the jury condemned Jhe
lynching.
The negroes who were taken from
Jail and hanged had been held as
suspects in the killing of Sheriff Me
rill of Lee county.
Washington, Feb. 2 Secre-,
tary Lansing said today thati
the state department had yet!
made no decision of its attitude
toward the British liner Appam,'
which yesterdav entered'
Hampton Roads with a Ger
man prize crew. Rear Admiral
Beatty, commanding the Nor-;
folk Navy Yard, has reported
that Lieut. Berg claims the ship
is a prize of war. The German,
embassy has not yet determin
ed'whejther. it will clainT the
Appam as an auxiliary cruiser'
or a prize.
If the Appam finally is held
tovbe a prize, the Prussian
American treaty of 1828 is more
likely to govern the case than
is The Hague convention. This
would mean that the Appam
would' be turned over to her
captors, and in that case some
German officials expressed the
view that the prize crew, rather
than let her fall back into the
hands of the British, as would
seem inevitable if she left port,
might take the ship to the three
mile limit and sink her.
In case she is held to have
becorae a German auxiliary-she
will hav the choice of leav
ing, after a certain time for
supplies or repairs, or intern
ing for the war1 as have the
Prjnz Eitel Friedrich and Kron
Prinz Wilhelm.-
Officials point out that the case of
British collier Farn, captured by the
German cruiser Karlsruhe, re-named
the Odenwald and finally interned In
San Juan, Porto Rico, might be re
garded as a somewhat similar case.
The British authorities contended the
Odenwald should be turned back to the
British officers in the status of a
prize, but the American government
held she had taken on the character
of an auxiliary and she was interned..
The original Prussian-American
treaty of 1799 provided:
The vessels of war, public and pri
vate, of both parties shall carry freely
wheresoever they please the vessels
and effects taken from their enemies
without being obliged to pay any du
ties; charges or fees to officers of ad
miralty, of the customs, or any others;
nor shall such prizes be ' arrested,
searched or put under legal process
when they come to and enter tha
ports of the other party, but may
freely be carried, out - again at any
time by their captors to the places ex
pressed in their commissions which
the commanding officer of such vessel
shalll be obliged to shop. But, con
formably to the, treaties existing be
tween the United' States and Great
Britain no vessel that shall have mad
a prize upon British subjects shall
have a right to shelter in the ports oi
the United States, but if forced there
in by tempest or any other danger 01
nor.ident of the sea, they snail t
obliged to depart as soon I as possi
ble." This latter provision would hav
(Continued on page 2)
London, Feb. 2 The suicide a
Tussof Izzedin, heir apparent to thi
Turkish throne is reported in a des
patch received by Reuter's Telegran
Company from Constantinople by wa; "
of Berlin. The message says thi
Crown Prince ended his life by cut
ting arteries in his palace at sevei
o'clock yesterday morning, j Ill-healtl
is given as the reason. - '
J ; '
