I VOL XLI
VYLI.
•i
3
i'
«r
.7
I
I.
fs
i/
.t
•J
9--
if-
1
«niT'
Aiji
INSURANCE COMPANY
DISMISSES SUITS
ACTIONS AGAINST DELAWARE
COUNTY FARMERS IN POLK
COUNTY ABANDONED.
CASES ATTRACT WIDE ATTENTION
Further Actions, if Any, to be
Brought in District Court ef Dela
ware County.
The Federal Mutual Insurance
Company of Des Moines failed in its
attempt to collect heavy assess
ments from a number of the farm
ers of Delaware County who held
policies with the company for tor
nado insurance. As stated in these
columns last week, suits had teen in
stituted by the insurance company
to collect annual assessments, which
the defendants claimed were many
times In excess of what the com
pany's agent said they would be.
The cases were set for. a hoaring be
•fore a. justice of the peace in Des
Moines, and'"the fanners appeared
and asked for a change of venue.
The cases were dismissed without
prejudice and at the plaintiff's costs,
$cc rdi»£ the signed stipulation
1 and an agreement entered into to
,} the effect that if in the future the
company should see fit to bring suit
*. to recoyer the assessments, the suits
would be brought in the District
1 Court in Delaware County.
The company had filed suits
against Frank Peterson, M. S. Hegh
,» rej» H. O. Lyon, Alva Sheppard,
Joseph Hermann, John Piogue, S. B.
Welterlen, W. H. Downs, and Byron
Aldrich. The suits instituted against
the above named farmers have been
dismissed' and the company has also
agreed to not bring actions in jus-
tice court against the following men
who "hold policies: F. G. Johnson,
H: W. C. Pojderboer, J. L. Yates, F.
1/ Workman, W. C. Kusick, C. F. Cun
ningham, W. Carrothers and Peter
Bryne.
if
Whether the company will bring
suit in the Delaware County District
'I court is a matter of conjecture. The
J* policy holders do not expect it. This
far the company has realized noth
ing on the tornado insurance writ
ten for the above named farmers. The
V- cases have all been dismissed with
out prejudice and at the plaintiff's
'it. COStS.
|f.-* ed in the tornado insurance proposi
tion, and it is claimed that the farm
ers will no,t "come across" until they
are ordered to do so by the court.
CHANGE IN TIME ON C. G. W.
On SuDday, January 30tli, a num
ber of changes in train schedules on
the Chicago Great Western railway
went into effect. These changes ef
fect the train schedules on the
Manchester & Oneida Railway as
well.
Readers of The Democrat will note
the following changes in the sched
ule of the M. & O.:
Train No. 2, which lias been leav
ing at 5:40 a. m., is now leaving at
5:55 a. m. This connects with the
Chicago Great Western west bound
train.
Train No. 4, leaves Manchester at
8:15 instead "of 8:25. This train
connects with the Chicago Great
Western east bound passenger train
and the north bound Chicago, Mil
waukoe and St. Paul.
V- Train No. 8, which has been leav
!jt"' ing Manchester at 5:00 in the af
ternoon, is now leaving at 4:55,
jj and connects with the south bound
passenger train on the Milwaukee
line, and with' the Great Western
west bouDd passenger train.
Parties desiring to go south of
Oneida on the Milwaukee in the
morning, or north of Oneida in the
evening will note that they can do
so by taking train No. 2, in the morn
ing at 5:55, and train No. 8, at 4:55
in the afternoon. In either case,
passengers will have a wait of sev
eral hours at Oneida, as the Man
chester & Oneida trains do not make
direct connections with the new
trains on the Milwaukee.
SCHOOL NOTES.
The M. H. S. basket ball team was
defeated at Delhi last Friday even
ing by a score of 22 to 12. Owing to
sickness substitutes had to take the
place of the regular players, and
consequently the team was somewhat
li weakened, which accounts for the de
f,i feat.
The Manchester High school will
send representatives to participate in
a typewriting contest, to be held ait
Waterloo some time during the month
of March. Prof. Naether, who has
charge of the Commercial depart
ment of the High school, is training
s/ the young people in the art of oper
ating the machines, and all of whom
will give a good account of them
selves as they emfcer the contest.
ELLIOTT MAY.
Elliott May was born in Meadville,
Crawford County, Pa., on August
10th, 1829. His parents moved to
DeKalb County, Illinois, when he
was fifteen years old. He grew to
manhood at this place and then en
gaged in farming for himself. He re
moved to Iowa about the year 1871,
settling on a farm near Manchester,
which he occupied until he retired
frm business. He was married three
tines. His last wife was Mrs. Mary
Ikforris, who survives him. He was
mUTied to her at Manchester, la.,
October 3rd, 1883. Also he is surviv-
n?»»«**,t
W87®^cur^»,'IOWA,
Jhad
A
I Mwnmeairan1
1*°
SKCOHD-CAX
Tnw
ANCHESTER AS
AT POSTOFF1
OB I
LASS
ed by a son, by the' first marriage,
Boyd May, who resides in the State
of Utah, and one sister, Mrs. Henry
Dibble, of Kingston, 111. In October,
1898, they retired froja the farm
and took up their residence in La-
jmont, Iowa, and the home continued
that
ci^'
except one year recent­
ly passed in Manchester. Mr. May
had been in poor health for some
years and had ^required the constant
care of his wife. An attack of la
grippe hastened the end which came
on Tuesday morning, January 25tli,
1916, at the age of 86 years, five
months and fifteen days.
He was a hard-working man in his
working years and had a large cir
cle of friends and acquaintances,
many of whom have passed on be
fore liim. Those who remain will
miss him and the immediate family
and relatives feel his loss. The
community extends to them, its sym
pathy.
The funeral services were held on
Thursday morning in the Methodist
church in Lamont, conducted by the
pastor, Rev. S. C. Bretnall, and the
body was laid to rest in tine ceme
tery at Manchester. X. X.
MRS. W. E. GRAVES.
Belinda Bristol was born Decem
ber 10th, 1835, in New Jersey, and
moved with her parents to Iowa in
1855. She was united in marriage
with W. M. Graves on September
15th, 1873. Since the death of her
husband, on November 16th, 1897,
she has resided on the homestead in
Colesburg, until her death early Sun
day morning, January 23rd, 1916. She
united with the Colesburg Congrega
tional church about sixteen years
ago. She leaves one brother, Henry
Bristol of Jersey City, N. Y., be
sides many other relatives and friends
who hold her memory dear. After
walking life's tath for 80 years, 1
month and 13 days she is now at
rest.
Funeral services were conducted
by Rev. O. J. Feltes, on Tuesday af
ternoon, and interment made in Oak
Hill cemetery. The relatives desire
to thanks the friends who so kindly
helped in the hour of need. X. X.
DISTRICT COURT.
Judge George W. Dunham made
the following entries on tlie probate
and law dockets last week:
Probate.
Estate of Seth Brown. Will admitted
to probate on testimony of R. W.
Tirrill and C. W. Keagy.
Estate of Theresa Mv B^eriy. ,.». Ad
ministrator directed 'to pay "'taxes
du* from estate and authorized to
make sale of uncollected accounts
at private sale at not less than ap
praised value.
Estate of Hulda A. Morse. Report
approved and partial distribution
authorized, credits taken for at
torney's fees and executor author
ized to pay Collateral Inheritance^
tax.
Estate of Mary A. Rea. Administra
tor authorized to sell note of Mrs.
John Nobel's at discount of $80,
as prayed.
Law.
Olney J. Dean & Co. vs. Gus Barad.
Plaintiff granted leave to file
amended and substituted petition.
Defendant required to answer on
or before March 2d,-1916.
Etha M. Bowles vs. Moses Kt
Bowles. Trial to court. Divorce
granted to plaintiff. Custody of the
FOR COUNTY TREASURER.
fice of county treasurer. Wherever
he is known he will have a large fol
lowing. He is a banker of experience,
having been connected with the First,
National Bank of this city for several
years. Recently he has resided at
Dundee and lias held the office of
cashier of the Dundee Savings bank.
He is a man of good judgment and
integrity and well fitted for the office
to which he aspires.
SLEET COVERS CITY.
A sleet storm which struck this
city last Friday night converted the
sidewalks, streets and lawns of Man
chester into an endless expanse of
ice, upon which it was next to im
possible for man or beast to gain
a foothold. Walking was dangerous
if not impossible, and as a result
many persons, especially the older
people, were obliged to remain in
their homes. In the cities street
railway companies found difficulty to
operate cars, and in many places
telephone and telegraph companies
suffered heavy losses because of
the sleet.
MEN'S BROTHERHOOD MEETING.
The Brotherhood of the Methodist
Episcopal church will hold a meeting
in the church parlors on Friday even
ing of this week. A 25c supper will
be served at 6:30. Following the sup
per Dr. Floyd Smith, returned medi
cal missionary from Turkey, will ad
dress tlie men. The address by Dr.
Smith is to be given in the aaudit
orium of the church, and the men
of the Brotherhood extend a wel
come to every man in Manchester and
vicinity, regardless of church affili
ations, to attend this meeting at
7:30, and hear Dr. Smith.
LOCAL NEWS
OF THE WEEK
WHAT
ARE
REVIEW AND FORECAST OF THE WEEK
Items of a Personal and General
Nature Picked Up About the
City.
—Mr. and Mrs. James Cavanaugh,
of Earlville, were guests of friends
in the city Tuesday.
—The New Idea Embroidery club
will meet this week Thursday, with
Mrs. W. Gloer.
—Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Hutchinson
were in Chicago last week attending
the automobile show.
—Mrs. Michael Hahesey had as
her guests several days last week,
the Misses Nell Morrissey and Jet
Nolan.
—Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Britt had as
their guests the first of the week,
Mrs. Lorden and Miss Miner of Wa
terloo.
—Miss Josephine Powers of Wil
liams, Iowa, was called home on ac
count of the illness of her mother
and sister.
—S, S. Arnold left Tuesday evening
for his home at Grand Mound, Iowa,
after having sold his hardware store
to W. B. Miller & Son.
—Miss Hester Roff, who is a clerk
in the G. G. Armistead store, has
been, spending several days with
friends in Belleplain, Minnesota.
—Mrs. Earl Hutson of Waterloo,
came Saturday afternoon to assist
in the care of her sister, Mrs. Bert
Mullen, who is seriously ill with
the grip.
—Mr. and Mrs. Will Confare left
Monday morning for a week's vaca
tion trip, spending the time with their
sons, Basil, at Davenport, and Harry,
at Waterloo.
—Dr. and Mrs. H. A. Dittmer en
tertained in a delightful manner a
company of twenty friends at a six
thirty dinner at their home last
home.
—Mrs.
iS
Edwin Cobb and
li 1 ren ,M a y*J ."bowles~ an d~ *Mar- were" guests "of Mr7and ~Mrs. John Devlin was a resident of this county.
plaintiff until further order of courts Friday evening they went to Win- I his brother-in-law, the late
Custody of the child, John B. Bow- jtlirop, where Dr. Smith gave an ad- Coleman.
les, granted to defendant until dress on their work in Turkey and
further order of court. Decree to
be entered on payment of costs.
their experiences in getting out
the war stricken country.
—H. E.
Friday eveuinc for Grand Mound In I
MATTER MANCHESTER, IOWA, FEBRUARY 2, 1916.
MANCHESTER PEOPLE
DOING AT HOME AND
ABROAD.
where the™ resided^ Mtow7hey ime iIs
several years, are this week
onto the Banta farm south of
Chester,
make
Chester.
moving
his space this week.
and
-Mr
Wednesday evening.
—Rev. W. J. Suckow, pastor of the presented to the bnying public during
Congregational church of this city, the last few days of their special sale
assisted the pastor of the Congrega- of suits and overcoats. Their adver-
£3=
"v '*-7
—"We understand that William
Hahesey- and his mother and sister
are contemplating moving into their
new residence on Prospect street,
having sold their old home on West
Main street to Henry Smith.
—A. C. Philipp leaves the latter
Man-'selves
their home in
—Tlie Enright Grocery company,
successors to H. R. McDonald, make
their formal announcement in this
issue of The Democrat. Mr. Enright
fruits, etc., and solicit a share of the
grocery trade of Manchester and
vicinity Our readers should not ov
erlook their announcement which ap
pears on another page.
—The Woman's Missionary society
of th« Congregational church will
meet in the church parlors Wednes
day, February 9tli, at 7:30 p. m.
There will be an illustrated lecture
on the history of Congregationalism.
A program of music by Miss Miles,
and reading by Miss Suckow, will
follow the lecture. Refreshment will
be served. This meeting is for men
and women, and all are cordially in
vited.-
t-
Man-!ery
and his son will carry a complete uing at 10 o'clock, a sale will begin
line of staple and fancy groceries, jn the A. E. Peterson building for
daughter of Cedar Rapids.
—Mrs. Hubert Carr and daughters,
Helen and Mary Louise, went to
Waterloo Friday evening and spent
several days with relatives.
—The Fortnightly club will been
tertained by Miss Peeper, at the
home of Mrs. James Green on Mon
day evening, February 7 th.
—Mrs. J. F. Merry entertained a
company of eight friends at a turkey
dinner party last Thursday. A most
enjoyable time was had by her
guests,
•—The Baptist Ladies Aid society
and Missionary society will meet at
the home of Mrs. A. A. Mcintosh, on
Wednesday, February 9th, 1916. Din
ner
will
be served at noon.
—P. A. Peterson, who has been
confined to his home for several
weeks by illness, is slowly regaining
ids former good health, a fact his
many friends are glad to learn.
—Arthur Anderson, who lives on
the farm formerly owned by Capt. J.
F. Merry, shipped several cars of
stock to the Chicago market last
week, accompanying the shipment to
market.
Oby Lyman, the butcher on low-
—Note what Gildner Brothers
tional church at Monticello with I tisement appears on page eight of the Union Jack." The occasion for
some special meetings last Thursday this issue. .. __
A
An 1/fnMa1\
Jolm
of
to his home on East Gay street liav- jHensley, died at the state hospital fereilce
Manchester Democrat
—E. M. Carr was at Des Moines on
Tuesday.
—Mr. Groundhog is experiencing
little difficulty iiv. seeing his shadow.
Six weeks more ,of winter?
—Mr. and Mrs. George Hermann
of Waterloo, are the parents of a
daughter, born recently.
—Mrs. Louis Haeberle of St. Paul,
was a guest of Mr. and Mrs. C. G.
Yoran, several days last week.
—Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Phenicie re
turned last week from their Avedding I
trip to Chicago, and other Illinois Ccst Living Going Up In England.
H. R. MCDOQUM
Mrs.
had ns their guests last Friday, Mr. lThe
her
tr£-, H&J" Smith' have
as their guest this week, Mrs. Fran
cis Edward Lee of Toledo, Ohio. Mrs.
Lee is pleasantly remembered by
»cu
many Manchester people as Miss GOT- ,Ul°
nfli
part of the week for Daytona, Flor- known men of Manchester, who has her agitation. Already the Labor
a 1. rt
jorie R. Bowles granted to the |Heath several days last week. On (He came here to attend the funeral of much gallant blood lias been spilled. But, said my husband, I have \ot-
DIES AT GLENWOOD.
Bryan has been confined daughter of Mrs. Susan Breckon
Margaret, the eleven year old,],i00^M
In another column of this paper ap- ling suffered an injury to one of his at Glenwood on Sunday afternoon, i1€,re While at the restaurant where .country. Our morning "Express" jWork.
pears the announcement of E. C. limbs when he accidentally stepped January 29th, 1916, the child fali-
Mr. Bryan much pain. His friends ening and funeral services held to- iate, which as been raised two-
hope to see him out again soon. day. Burial will be made in the Earl- pence- we perceive that portions are
buried.
Tlli
tl,e
Jo Manchester. We understand that I would not say that the man on
AN INSTRUCTIVE LECTURE.
farming on his father's farm. Mr. the ordinary Geography. Instead of jerals as she has had soldiers. We
CROCKERY SALE.
On Saturday of this week, begin-
the purpose of selling the crockery
ajid china, and cut glass ware. This
stock wiU he sold at a sacrifice, and
amy one looking for bargains will do
well to be on hand as soon as the
doors are opened Saturday morning.
Note the advertisement on another
page of this issue.
DEATH OF YOUNG SON
The six year old son of Mr. and
Mrs. Joe Mulvehill, south of Mason
ville, died at the home of his par
ents, Tuesday night, after a "brief
illness. Mr, and Mrs. Mulvehill have
the sympathy of their friends in the
great sorrow.
/\m ft
rm
CONSCRIPTION HAS
COME IN ENGLAND
CONCESSIONS GRANTED TO IRISH
AND QUAKERS. LABOR OP
POSED TO ORDER.
LLOYD GE08GR FEARLESS IN SPEFCH
English Confident of Vic
tory in the End.
Democr8''
and Mrs. J. L. Konecny, and "little estiner fact's concering the part the
ivi A
our
011
Hesner of Dundee as a candidate for off a sidewalk and fell to the frozen ing a victim to pneumonia. The body is being made in 'the price of the titled, "America and the Enemy." by many Manchester people, who
the republican nomination for the of- ground. The injury has been causing .was brought to Earlville Sunday ev- 'food, except in the case of our choco- f' hegan—-"All statements that Amer- share in the sorrow that comes to
points.
—E. M. Hughes' advertisement
will prove of interest to the ladies.
Note what Mr. Hughes suggests in jn jier recent letter, Mrs, Ralph them dear in this war.) Miller
sets out
people of England are taking In the fV
great European war. She tells in an
land was late in getting into the
thick of the fight.
Our readers will find Mrs. Norton's
letter this week of unusual interest.
She writes as follows:
London, Jan. 7, 1916.
We Americans living on this side
are beginning to feel that all the
muddlers and quibblers are not to
be found on this side of the Atlan
tic. We are wondering if it can be
possibly true what this morning's
paper says, that President Wilson is
not likely to be able to get his
bill for increased armament and pre
paredness through Congress. We over
here, face to face with the failure
of Voluntaryism in a crisis such as
the British are facing, realize that
no great volunteer citizen army can
avail. There must be a strong regu
lar army as a basis.
Conscription has come to Great
er Franklin street quotes some at- Britain at last, although a much mod- !©ager for knowledge, capable of close
have to say about the opportunities This mornings Express bore the the world." Also he said, "It was
startling headline, "Shall the Red fear, not ambition, that had led even
Flag replace the Union Jack?" and pacifist Germans to support the war."
in another place, "Red Flag beats The Britons are skeptical to say
this was the conference of Labw,
held yesterday.ln Central Hail," West
minster, to decide the attitude of
labor toward Compulsion, the result
wh'ch
Uol°n
Jack
trade Anderson, who formerly resM- i"
nM,rly
A
you spar« money, ycu spill
Wo are
-Mr. and Mrs. Bert Stier left last ^iUe ferue^ry, where her father is growing smaller. Bread particularly 11 i'™?
sorrow that Tias come to tTifm „, ,, P6ct biru downstairs when
Mr. Stier will engage the hotel the street is concerned about the out- said, "We have always recognized
business at Grand Mound. Manches-
ter friends of these estimable young Frank Caldwell delivered his lec- confident that she will win ultimate- difficult. A man who under no
I people wish them well in their un- ture "Beyond the Klondike," in the I think they base this confi- circumstances will punch anybody's .a
would have found the address of in- of her weaknesses, but that is not
terest and educational value.
rr^r
TT
tractive prices on fancy corn-fed ji^iel emasculated conscription. application to intellectual interests, R- McDonald, who lias been
steers, that is steers after they have There have been some resignations jjj js surely one of the supreme conducting a grocery store on the
been dress:ed. Our readers should in the Cabinet, despite the conces- tragedies of history that such a peo- corner of Franklin and Delawaare
not overlook his announcement of sions to the Irish, the Quakers, etc., pi© should be molded by the ruth- streets, has sold the store to Messrs.
special prices. and Labor has already begun to show less ambition of an unscrupulous oli- I ani Enright of Tama,
teeth. 'garchy into an instrument of «vil to
tllrce
ed in thte »itv 998,000 to 783,000. Labor cannot de- jto the value of our lives to society,
feat the coming of Compulsion,but she and to our homeland in particular.
G. H. Dutton, one of the well san greatly hamper the process by
ft
ida, where he will attend the Gold- been having a hard tussle with the party has turned against Lloyd
en wedding anniversary on Febru- grip, is slowly but surely getting George, who was her idol, because
ary 8tli, of Mr. and Mrs. E. M. !the upper hand of the disease. His this fearless and far-seeing man
Condit. Mr. Philipp will ^also make I friends are greatly relieved to learn has had the courage to brand the
a number of stop overs on his way [this fact. party with their disloyalty.
—Ed Kulilman, machinist at the To our minds Lloyd George is the fect those born prior to 1S70, all held from the Work home on Friday
baby Manchester Auto & Supply company's lout-standing man in Great Britain, whose fathers or grandfathers were afternoon at 2:30, the services be-
daughter, who spent several days garage on West Main street, is in Absolutely fearless, in speech, as joorn in England are held by the I ins conducted by the Rev. W. J.
last week with Mrs. Cobb's parents, Chicago taking a course of instruction when in his review of the work of British Government to be British Suckow. Interment was made in Oak
Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Brown, return- In. automobile construction and par- the Ministry of Munitions, he said in subjects. So as my husband's father |land cemetery.
ed to their home Monday morning, jticularly storage batteries. He ex- th« House of Commons, "In this war jwas bom in England, my husband is Clara Robertson was born in Honey
Dr. Cobb also spent a few days in jpects to be away for several weeks. ,the footsteps of the Allies have been considered a British subject, and Creek township, Delaware county,
the Brown home last week, returning
home on Saturday. lada, was a caller at the Democrat of- 'To° Late,' and unless we quicken same. We were telling a friend of 'daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. J.
—Mrs. Floyd Smith and baby son 'flee today. Until four years ago Mr.
beginning to notice a
t]ie cosj. 0f
we take our meais
come of the war. All England feels
dertaking. High school assembly room on Tliurs- dence wholly on their fleet. The ccm- head, is not likely to be a conspicu- republican ticket, to the office of
—Mr. and Mrs. George Banta, who'day evening. The lecture was illus- :mand of the seas is the ground of ous success in keeping order." But ^unty treasurer, subject to the de
have been living in Iowa City formated with many views, which Mr. tlieir confidence. They know they on the whole we do not see
and Mrs. Caldwell procured them- ,have muddled badly on land. Some acrimonious criticism of America
where they will make their jTh® lecture is full of interest, and home to report "and are remain- everyone in America is getting fear-
home. Mr. Banta lias given up one can learn more of Alaskan his- ing there. The great pity is that fully rich at their expense these days.
his law practice and will engage in tory from it than from the study of England i.as not had as great gen- the days pass over here, bringing
and Mrs. M. S. Banta, we under- a small audience being present ev- ,ar~ too prone on the other side, to of defeat, or Victory? ticket, subject to the decision of the
stand, will
Price Collier who said that to make
ia suggestion to an Englishman was
have heard much airing of views un
favorable to themselves. This is espe
cially true among the younger offi
cers and private soldiers. One young
fellow in the Flying Corps said to
us one day, "We've bungled every
thing we don't deserve to win." But
just the same they are all loyal, and
would give tlie last drop of their
blood rather than see the old flag
be hauled down.
But "there is no doubt that Eng
land is feeling very little of the econ
omic pressure that Germany, denied
the use of her fleet, is feeling. All
in all I would say that we are here
feeling very little discomfort because
of the war, and only finding a moder
ate rise in prices. Apropos of Lloyd
George's lapse in favor was it not
Oscar Wilde who said, "He who
would lead the people, must follow
the mob." But Lloyd George will
not follow the mob away from jus
tice and fairplay.
Sir Oliver Lodge said a remark
able tiling at the University of Lon
don, the other day. He was speak-
ing of Britain's neglect of intellectual QUy
things and consequent contempt for
investigation and expert knowledge,
(a contempt that was likely to cost
Ralph them dear in this war.)
for He said, "What has beccme ap-
correspondent for He aa.4 -Wl.at has become ap-
rn:*"y lntei"
parent
"Ie
ermnS
18n°rance
'lafses
9CcO(! Tha ranf +Vto+ a/liiAQ4i/\m hoc*
T1
wi^
was not
interesting manner of the opposition that it failed to stimulate any heal
to the conscription movement, and Miy intellectual interest in the ma
relates the fact that the men who j°r^3r» *ias now at length glared at
are high in authority admit that Eng-
Us
to°
However must confess
peviin of Calder Sask. Can-dogseci ^y the mocking spectre of because I am his wife, my lot is the |Septemb®r 16th, 1851. She was a
tlif-I"Persia-"
not much advance
c.ame
out
with
ica
giv/n ixig oiatviici. uicau ya.i ,.
sympathy of many has grown dearer, and our breakfast '\u
we€k's
el.e7™0
"""y 'rolls shrink daily in size. *"?. 's of Sioux City.
hiD1.»
tj!at'
while traveling over Alaska. ,of the old Generals are being call- over here. Except that they think Recorder.
each
student in the city schools 'think that England does not see any EDITH F. NORTON. primary election of June, 1916
true.
She will even acknowledge them
to outsiders, and she proclaims them Justice of the Peace A. E. Peter
freely in her daily press. It was json- this city performed the cere-
lik" trying to make an impression on Metz, the ceremony being per
an elephant by prodding him with a formed on Thursday of last week
stalk of boiled macaroni. But in our
daily contact with the English, we
W
e^atlonhas
not Jed to wisely diffused knowledge, RAr+
designed to lead there, and
P^inently,
to be overlcok-
The English have been wonderful
ly ready to acknowledge any gal
lantry or superiority in their enem
ies. The Captain of the "Emden"
for example was quite lionized, be
cause he was what the English like
best, a real sport, and square. They
have acknowledged quite freely the
wondrous organization and discipline
of the German fighting machine,
probably the greatest army of his
tory.
Also the other day 1 was interest- |win
ed in reading what Canon Masterman live
had to say concerning this enemy
of theirs, in a speech in Guild Hall.
The Germans are a docile people,
the least, about any feeling America,
inay manifest when^a boat goes-down
sinking 'ar~Tf'W~Americans,.. even if
one be an Jimeriotw. .^Consul.
After the sinking of the "Persia,
was that the red flag beat land the sending of another note, we
one'
Americans abroad began to feel that
9 ad bee as
ed. We have been learning frcm our ment business cf the W. D. Hoyt
enemies. One thing after another we company at Winthrop, and is an ex
have picked up from them. In initia
tive we have been behind. The cour
age and the personal character of
jour men—our men of all classes, and
our women, too. have saved us but
w^ have been saved as by fire."
1
just here,
fbqf. it was with mixed feelingg tlmt
we have found since coming to Lon
don this time that we are both Brit
ish subjects, not Americans at all.
movements, damnation will fall lours over here about this. "Yes, he Robertson, pioneers of the county.
the sacred cause for which so said, J'tliat is perfectly correct." jJVw'many-years she was a successful
James In another place in this memorable ed in America." "No matter," he re- ,On September 19tli, 1SS3, she was
speech he said: "We were too late
sponded.
"What
in starting, too late in deciding too legally, and I don't suppose you are Merrill, and for about twenty years
late in preparing." And then,
floc.k
By British law which was only re- was due to nervous trouble and par
pealed about 1870, and does not af- tial paralysis. Funeral services were
-i^'.
., Miller, of Winthrop, were in the ci-
of the
the
"All you did was to vote il- united in marriage with Frank W.
the first one who lias don-e that she resided in Sioux City, and for
in
there." the last two years she lived at Iowa
But to return to the sinking of the City. Last August she came to Man-
Naturally a wave of in-
Chester
living over tense indignation swept over this her home with her sister, Mrs. Ralph
ln tlle
morn-
sh& sggs
ln the same editorial they also
America's position is extremely
much
day nearer to that fateful day
MARRIED BY JUSTICE PETERSON.
irony which united in marriage, Mr.
William Vierow and Miss Stella
Mr. and Mrs. Vierow will go to
housekeeping at Lamont, where the
groom is well and favorably known.
His bride is an Illinois girl, and will
be heartilv welcomed by the good
people of Lamont. The Democrat
extends hearty congratulations to
the young people.
MARRIAGE LICENSES.
William Vierow, and Stella Viola
Metz.
George S. Coleman, and Helen F.
Joseph.
Joseph E. Schilling, and Anna Moot
mann.
191b-
•*'y:'.4.-'-y~- t-»:•
BUSINESS CHANGES
IN MANCHESTER
B. MILLER & SON OF WIN
THROP, BUY ARNOLD HARD
WARE STOCK.
G. H. MILLER IS MANAGER OF STORE
J. M. and
E Enright of Tama,
McDonald Grocery
Store.
h. R.
an-d
..
S. S. Arnold recently purchased of
Qtier Mr Arnold after
ing tlie deal
perienced business man. His son was
associated with his father in the man
agement of the business at Winthrop
for several years.
The new owners of the store will
conduct the business in this city un
der the firm name of W. B. Miller &
Son, the junior member of the firm
being in active charge of the store.
The firm lias come into possession of
a clean and up-to-date stock of hard
ware, and will no doubt receive the
same generous patronage from the
buying public as was accorded the
former owners of the store. Mr. Mill
er is. a wide-awake young business
man, and will carry a strictly first
class stock of hardware. He is a
young man of pleasing manner, and
find
GROCERY STORE CHANGES
HANDS.
Iowa. The new owners took posses
sion of the store on Saturday of last
week. Mr. Enright and his
are experienced grocermen ju*i will
devote their entire »fie to the
management of the a^iness. As soon
as Mr. Enrightfind a suitable
resldence^tfe will bring- liis iauiily.
he/e to make tlieir home.
Miv. and Mrs. McDonald have
not decidea^uDon definite plans for
the future. Their friends hope that
this transfer will not mean a re
moval from the city. J'
MRS. W. F. MERRILL.
Mrs. W. F. Merrill passed away at
the home of her sister, Mrs. Ralph
Work in this city on January 26tli,
1916, at the age of 54 years. Death
1
a pungent editorial, en- Mrs. Merrill is well remembered
stirred as the result of this the members of her family. She
outrage cn the higli seas was a member of the Eastern Star,
f°r
WfaMM
NO. 5
his son, G. H.
on' TuesdaJr ctosKi a dMl
«ov whereby they come into possession
ignorance of aHj0f the hardware stock which Mr..
clos-
Tuesday left for his
home in Grand Mound, whore his fam*
ily resides.
W. B. Miller is manager and part
owner of the hardware and imple*
Manchester a good place to
engage in
business.
schools.
and since that date made
™any/ears
h®ld
member-
ship in the Congregational church
POLITICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS
Treasurer.
I wish to announce that will be
ca^^a*e
5^r
nom!na,t'on'
of the prima^ etecbon of June,
date for re_eiection
Qf
HESNER.
wish to ann0unce
'to
tile
voters
of the county that wiu be a candi.
to the position
county recorder, on the republican
A. E. DUNLAP.
Treasurer.
I desire to announce to tlie voters
of Delaware county that I am a can
didate for nomination as county treas
urer, on the republican ticket, sub
ject to the decision of the primary
election of June, 1916.
M. A.RICHARDSON.
Clerk of Courts.
I desire to announce my candidacy
for the office of clerk of courts
of Delaware county, on the republi
can ticket, subject to the decision
of the primary election of June, 1916.
O. R. DUNHAM.
Supervisor.
I desire to announce to the voters
of Delaware county that I am a can
didate for supervisor on the Repub
lican ticket for the term commenc
ing January 1, 1917, subject to the
decision of the primary election of
June, 1916. C. WENDEL.
