r vnoziuv 'xiNaoHi
I 1 '"in iiiojijj.
WEATHER
MARKE IS
NEW YORK CITY
Average copper price
week ending Jan. 19
23.71.
4
Arizona Fair
'I
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 213.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 2; 191 C.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
!
-.1
I
- -ft
.
'
vu
VJ
1 i
1
?v.
I
1
1
1
iiPPl CASElf
I NTB I GATE
PROBLEM i
nr wan :
ur f HR
Official States of Seized Brit
ish Steamer Is Difficult Mat
ter for Government Experts
to Settle. '
PRISONERS OF WAR
MUST BE RELEASED
Advisory Neutrality Board to;
Consider Problems Involv
ed; Title to Captured Vessel
Vexatious Question.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 1. Until it Is:
decided whether the German com
niander aboard the British steamer
Appam brought the ship to an Ame
. I
ncan port as a prize or war or a con-
verted auxiliary cruiser there will be;
no determination as to the United I various city, party committees.
States' course respecting the ship, j Though for several weeks there has
When certain formalities are complied been some movement on foot among
w ith, the ship's passengers, including verious acknowledged candidates,' and
peveral Eritish colonial officials, will j those in the prospective, nothing of
be released and their disposition pass-: ficial has been done. With the date of
ed on by the irrigration' authorities, i the primaries now legally fixed as
Any prisoners of war will be released ' March 28 and the general election at
because international law permits no I May 22, the air in Bisbee during the
holding of war prisoners ,in a neutral balance of the spring will . be sur-
country.
If the German crew is accounted in
the naval service of Germany, as were
the crews of other raiders interned at
Norfolk, they will be interned unless,
the ship goes to sea to run a cordon'
or British cruisers outside. If the;
Appam is held the auxiliary cruiser1
commander will have the option or.
putting to sea after a time to make
repairs and obtain provisions. If itj The regular biennial election for' , , ,. . fc . . .
is declared a prize the situation will ! elective officers it is to be held on i J,me ' W thfereabouts- du"n thp
become complex. In that event it Is1 May 22nd. j coming summer, will undoubtedly see
admitted that the United States Willi Upon receipt hereof you will cauBejthe establishment of a chain. 5, 10
have to deal probably with one of the! to De pubijshed for three consncutive I and 23 cent store in Bisbee. The loc-a-most
novel uestions concerning .ieu..weeks a notice of a primary -elect on tion of tne concern w, De the Maze
trality which have arisen during theit0 De held on MaK-h 28th. in thu man L t .
'ar- J
as one or tne nrst steps, tne proD-;
lera wil lbe referred to a neutrality.1 Those desiring to become condi- ficially known which of the three big
board, which Is unoflicial and whose j,jate8 at sucn primary election must, chain-store systems will come into
function is merely advisory. The!j order to have their names printed tn city' il is thought, on account of
Stale Department pointed out that;on the official ballot, not less fhan'tne Presence of the Kress branches
there is much confusion in the
ties ana provisions or international , t0 election, file nomination peti
law on the subject of prizes and the j tton and papers in your office as pro
right to convert captured vessels Into! vided by Sees. 3012 and 3013. This,
auxiliary warships, also the right ofjJ0U wiil see, means that from now on
renaouuaiion D.v original owners or
the captured vessels. One theory Is
that the title to the captured vessel
does not pass until the prize court
has acted. Another opinion strongly
championed is that the title commis
sions one of bis own officers or crew
as commander of the captured ship.
The latter view Is commonly accept
ed by the American navy and probab-f
ly will be followed by the State De
partment.
L.iit ArrAKi iun. throuch whom their campaign expend
NOR FOLK. Feb. 1. With a German ..p, be madei and wltntn ten
prize crew aboard, the British liner dayg after 8Uch election they must
Appam, thought lost, sailed like an ap- flle he verified itemized statement of
parition into Hampton Roads flying ;
tne uerman naval ensign, bhe brought.
wora 01 tne mysterious German com-1
merce raider Moewe. which roams the'
seas. It had aboard crews of seven
British ships captured by the Moewe j ejection are prescribed In Sec. 3042, ! cure this concession the entire build
before she seized the Appam. i being briefly: The person desiring to Ing ws optioned and, it is under-
! voto must be a Qualified elector of the stood, the option has been exercised
b&ware SUBMARINES. precinct, and duly registered therein.
NEW YORK. Feb. 1. The British and nave been a resident of such pre
consul general notified British ship- cict thirty days prior to such elec
ping to be alert for German submar-1 tion.
ines in American waters owing to' This brines us to the question of
private information that a submarine i
accompanied the Appam across the
Atlantic. i
!
ARKANSAS RIVER FLOOD j
j
LITTLE ROCK. Feb. 1. A break i
in the Arkansas River levee near Cum ,
mings is reported. The water is ex-'
pcted to flood the lowlands of five
Arkansas counties. The towns of Var
ner, Dumar, Douglas and Lakevillage
probably wiil suffer.
While the Jackson Port levee at
Nekport is holding, it Is expected to
break before morning allowing New
port to be flooded. More than 5,000 t ary. register between March 2th and Whether the serond and third floors
have left Newnort. Those remaining , the time of voting on March 28th. and ! will be cleared of petitions is a nues
have their goods in the second stories sunnlv the election officers with the 'tion. It Is thought probable, however.
of their homes.
INJURED N COLLISION.
STOCKTON. Fab. 1. Three men'
Injured when a Santa Fe passenger!
train struck the auto stag in which
they were riding. Failure of the auto
brake caused the collision.
TARIFF BILL INTRODUCED.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 1. The
administration's tariff commis
sion bill was introduced in the
House of Representatives by
Representative Kainey of Illi
nois, ranking I democrat of the
, Ways' and Means committee,
who will have charge of the
measure owing to the opposition
today of Majority Leader Kitch
in. The bill provides for five
commissioners with a salary of
12.000 each.
City Primary Call Is
Issued;' March
Twenty -eighth .
Is the Day
M. L. Butler, Clerk, Signs Offi
. cial Notice Naming Date
for First Gun in the 1916
Year of Politics.
The opening gun in city politics.
I consisting of the primaries, will be
fired March 28. This is the sense of
Ja legal notice published in the Review
. i this morning.' It provides for the elec
tion of a mayor, two councilmen, from
,u r .u . j .....
"-" " cier&,
city marshal, supervisor of streets and)
I chared with a political atmosphere.
Explanatory of the various phases
of . the primary election. City Attorney
IE. J. Flanigan has writen the follow-
ing letter to City Clerk M. L. Butler: j
M. L. Butler, City Clerk. .
Dear Sir: Answering your reuest
for information as - to forthcoming
city primary and regular biennial'
election, beg to advise:
ner prescribed by Sec.
3011 of the
Civil Code.
trea-ltwontv nnr more than nixtv dava nrior:in
,,, ,, h. fivrt anH that the iat
day on which to make such filing isihich. apparently, has come to a suc
Marcb 8tb. i cessful conclusion, for Kress, was in
Not less than twelve days before the!1914' JU8t before tne beginning of the
primary, that is to say, not later than
March 16th. you must prepare the
sample official tickets required by Sec.
3017.
It is well that candidates be inform
ed by you that at the time of filing
their nomination petitions, they must
also file the statement required by
Sec. T029. elvine the names of Dersons I
expenditures required by Sec. 3030.;Hore.
t nrh Pioctinn there will also be.
chosen the members of the city party
committee, as provided in Sec. 3044.
Tne Qualifications of voters at such
ascertaining who are such qualified j formation, took the lease in his name
voters: and when and where such re- and will turn it over to the company
gistration must be made. he represents. In the' meantime he
By Sec. 1922. the Council is given j has gone east and will', arrange for
power to require a new registration I the elimination of the fronts row !n
every two years. This power will un-jthe building, the renovation of the
rioubtedly be exercised by the Council, . structure and the construction of a
and the registration will under the I serviceable elevator. It is understood
iaw begin within sixty days beforeithe concern will take occupancy and
and close ten davs before the regular
city election, that is to say. such re-
eistration will begin not earlier than
March 24th and end on May 12th.
Those, therefore, who are not on
the city register of 1914. much, in I
order to vote at the forthcoming prim-1
affidavit or certificate of such reristar-
t'on mentioned in Sec. .3042. It room with two entrances, one where
should be borne in mind, however, the rsfe entrance 'or is and the nh
that no one mav vote at the regular er where the Hlllmsn entrance 1
elct'nn on Mav 22nd who does not
r1str this vear. a new registration
being ordered. Registration in 1914
(continued on rage 3)
WOMAN MAGNATE
WOULD SELL CARDS
-5. v.
Mrs. Helens H. Brit ton.
Mrs. Helene H. Britton, owner of
the St. Louis Cardinals, has not
found baseball a very paying propo
sition during the past few years, and
is said to be anxious to sell. A syn-
un-aie
dicate of former Fed league mag-
naj2R is sa:d to have made an offer
for thj club.
Ten Year Lease and with Op
tion of Five More for Struc-
ture Signed with Owners.
Occupancy lay April 1.
uwueu ay me nenepar oroin-
ers and Johnson. Tliouh it is not, of-
Douglas, Tucson and Thoenix
that
it will be the latter company.
In the last four years there have
been five efforts made to establish a
chain-store in Bisbee. The last effort
made, previous to the present one.
European war.
C. F. Johnson, representing the par
ent company, arrived in Bisbee Janu
ary 1. Apparently the field had been
thoroughly investigated from a busi
ness standpoint and the organization
had come to the conclusion that a
ornncn wasneeueu in tms oiy.
The visitor had three choices in
regard to location. His. first was that
of the building, in which are located
the Watkins and Bergqulst jewelry
store and the Sasse Confectionery
This was unavailable, how
The second choice was the
ever.
Maze building. An effort was made
by Johnson to lease only the first
floor of thfe structure. Unable to se-
with a bond posted ror a ten year
lease. The lease carries the privil
ege of renewal for five years at tV
end of the term.
Johnson, according to relinl.le in-
begin the renovation of the building
on April 1. This would leave but two
months for the rcbuildinz work and
It is possible that more time win he
necessary,
To w hat extent the interior of the
building will be changed is not known.
the first floor will be made one lnrge
(located. .Where the bnrher ?hon. and
stars, leading to the second and third
floors are now located, it is probable
w i, -v e, .-iOO- v
KRESS STORE 10
OGCUrTWZE
BUILDING
(Continued from page two.)
mm
SOW
Mist Hampers Zeppelins, Lon
don is Alarmed; Manches
ter Regarded As Possible
Cb'eciive of Air Raid..
SALONIfCI ALSO IS AT- j
TACKED BY ZEPPELINS
Gerrnan Official Reports Say
All Zeppelins Returned to
Heme Quarters in Safety;
Violent Fires Damage.
LONDON. KVb. 1. It is official
ly htaird that 220 bombs were
dropy.ed dur.in.? the recn! air raid
on f:rm'ns sections of Derbyshire,
Leicestershire, Lincolnshire and
Staffordshire, killing fifty-four and
injuring six'ty-Kevon. Apparently
seven raiders participated. Possib
ly the city of Manchester was the
objective point. .
The official text reads: "An air
raid was attempted last night on
an extensive sx-ale. It appears the
raiders were hampered by a thick
mist. After reaching the roast the
Zeppelins steered in various cours
es, bombing several towns in the
rural districts of the eastern, north
eastern r.nd midland counties. Xo
accurate reports were received at
a late hour."
The raid caused the most casu
alties since the war except that
on the n!sht of October 13, when
fifty-five were killed and 114
wounded i". London. Unofficial re
ports gave between 2'.'0 and H00
killed .
LONDON. Feb. 1. A Zeppelin
dropped bcrr.bs bit 5aloniI:I r.f.w-
doy night, according to a Reuter
Sa'onil:i dispatch. A Greek ware
house containirg sugar and oil
was destroyed. There was no mil
itary damage.
BKRLIN. Fob. 1. The German
Admiral' y's report says the Zep
pelin raid on England dropped in-t-iendary
bombs on Liverpool, Birk
en'tead. Manchester, Nottingham,
Sheffield and Great Yarmouth.
Violent fires occurred. All the
Zeppelins returned safely.
nr
FROM RELIEF
Admiral Fulbm Reports that
' Relief of Destitute Have
npnsm nam
HL UHlli
SUPPLIES
Been Used for Avaricious i matter of tact, expect to shorten the
Pu'DOSCS i 'lou:; to be paid overtime for
" " over eight hours instead of ten. Of-
SAN DIEGO. Feb. l.-Rear Admiral j ficials il would b ""Possible to
,, , grant the request under existing pas-
Fullam, commanding the Tacific Rc"'genper rates
serve Fleet, was informed that several j Th Kttempnt v the movement
officials of Tia Juana Valley
were
seeking personal gain in the tran
SDortation of relief supplies to flood
sufferods. He said, "arrests
... - .1... i :-....
promptly lonow is wit? iiivt-siiniiuiiw :
I
siiuiiiaiiiiair "
L.ieutenant . . urauiey, com-.
. ... ... t. ii ,
manding the expeditionary forces. Is j
in hoo nr (, invoaiivntinn ni.ipili
... ........
pi 1 1 i.... u . 1
tinth arfl mnnrtoH I
K
to have started on the scene It is'the the present wages and eignty-. u" " - i v.ti..-r.i.i- rr. ,. ... .
declared that supplies from one' seven and a half per cent in the failed in the past, which menaces ourjident's .necial backed slowly into
source were allowed to proceed while present rates overtime., He stated safety and a system in which the peo-jcrowd of three thousand. Sij children
others were held up. Bradley is con-' wages of the men involved had been pie. Justly, have no confidence- were knocked between the rails or
fiscating supplies exorbitantly priced.' increased from thirty to forty-two per' The proposals of the guardsmen Idraiged away before the wheels rearh
Rpports from the upper reaches of cent from 1913 to 1914. while wages fere well received by both committees d them.
'Otay Valley and Cottonwood Valley
cor.firm the statement that the Cpper'
Otay, Morena and Sweetwater
,), '
!are holding. i
Sheriff fonklin instructed his denu-,
ties to Investignte the reports thnt jjokp smith of the Educational Coni
Mextcnns and Indians were killine the:nliltp, reported to the Senate favoring
cattle driven to the hills. County of- tne pB;tS;,Re 0f (ne vocational educa-
ficials estimate that seven ami a ""it
million dollars must be soent In this
countv st a result of the flood, re
naming rai'road and highway dam
ages. The rel'ef rommittee nnr-alerf fn
neopje of the rnnntv to aid th" Hetl
tiitn. Vo ontstd" aid will h solicited.
Vntlonsi Otv and Ch'n Vlsfs er
till without trtr. WnrV i nr
rr to nino vir from
rtiver t hoth r'ace.
VHMA DANftpR PAPT.
YT'M. Feb. 1 The rsnidlv reced-
(Continued on page three)
" Know Not Only My Heart But the Heart of
America, Was In the Cause of Peace" -Wilson
- " , .
' ' U.
-r - i 11
- j . vid k --
t, A i PRESIDENT WILSON
V V' l ' in flghtinn shape.
v
rXV.W iiiTinuii mi inn
i
IP9SSIBLE
Officials of Railroads Declare
that Existing Freight and
pc ., n-i(. pPllt J-
"-"-'6 "
Meeting of Demands.
CHICAGO, Feb. 1. The
view of the demands of the men for
.the right to an hour day outlined in
the renort of the Executive Committetr
.
i nf ih Woulprn Rallwavs It is a-
" - - - .- -
serted the demands are not in reality
for a shorter day but requeit for 4a
advance in wages, which will cost
the railways and nation a hundred
million iu annual wages alone.
This is found by the assertion or
trainmen at work between terminals
not by the hour. They do not. as a
(involves 300.000 men on -80.000 miles
. of line in the United States and
Canada. The strike, which the state-
III
GRANT WAGE
INCREASE
willjnient says has been informally threat-
nn.l hv n lminnt nf ha hrnthir-
- -.- -
hoods .would constitute the greatest
-
'tniiBtiti..ji umui rnniiA l na niurifan
imlastria! catastrophe the American
.-o1...
public has ever known.
It said the demands mean an
in-
u ...11.. : .
rip ti- nr iwenrv-nve ier cnr over
crease of twenty-five per cent over,
... I
oi western engineers anu nremen nam
been further increased in 191a.
VOCATIONAL BILL FAVORED
i tionnl bill which would appropriate a
' mounts, graduated from $.00.00rt this
iyear to $1,000,000 in 1924 as a federal
aid to s'ates in vocational training.
, naninu own ivoi i
j VANCOl'VKR. Feb. l.--The halibut
fishing steamer Onward Ho. owned by
the Rrit4h Columbia Paskere' Asrocia-
Swertwateri,'on" is overdue several days Iroru Ihe
i Alaska banks.. Thirty-seven are "on
jboard. it, is r.opeq sne lound reru
harbor from 'where 'it has
been impossible to send word.
.mi iiniiuiinL uunnu
.-v-i . nni nriii 11 iiif
UUUIIlU DI j
tnl RSRWI
' Secretary of War Comes to An j
Open Breach with the Na-j
. tional Guard Association!
Over the New Plans. !
!
WASHINGTON. Feb. 1. A breach
.was reached between Secretary Garri
Ison and the National Guard Associa
tinn Avar iha arimin if ral tnn'a nlan for
a continental army instead of an
ganized militia as the nation's main j
rciiani-e in war lime. ine uuarus-
, ,,wmi,, hoaHoH hv Arii.ltant 1
" a - ' '
iCeneial Fonter of Florida, declared
'the roatlnenlal army scheme imprac
railroads ;.. .,..., ,jj ti ..
(tsnizalion. of the National Guard by
,.,,, M,n.,,. .Ption More the Sen
. . ., :..
aie i;iia nousq nuiiiaij i-uiuiimi--i
? .
n .1 ..,., . .H.m tn I h. OTiapriumull
mill n. ll -lir- t l.'ii v. ..it .... ..
by the United States for actual ser
vices rendered, was urged, although
Foster objected to designation of this
as "militia pay" proposal.
' Garrison's letter to Chairman Cham-
berlsin of the Senae Committee disap
proving The Senator's militia bill was j
trade public by the War Department, t
Garrison declared the guardsmen al
ways had stood in the way of purely
a federal volunteer force on sound
lines.
"It will put the organized militia
firmly in the saddle as contemplated
,n "' B" PPnn.iy .r
anopun sounu .ur
the nation will have passed beyond
recall, garrison wrote.
uamson w roie naniDeriain .
'Having arrived at a consideration
, .u- vt.i .1"
inromnn vuj i m- .'""'
.nlvtn V. nv r f Iha Valinnal
iii.ui.i.im ... vt j ... .... .-........
(Guard, we come to tne nnat parting or
me ways. i nr imssaasf tu put 11 n i
.. h- nnlj r., 1 1 ., . n.1 iAtriAKI
incoamr " v.v. ... .u... , . . . . . . v ........
measure nwn iuu inniirT.ui, ,
1. .... . - - . V. n V. n .. i.ll...)
i umiru u tut- .inmir Vi...i-
n ittee to draft tne.r plan in tne torm
:or a Dill, several menmers oi tni
House Committee congratulated Fos-
ter and Major General O'Ryan or thiwas killed and Thomas Fennell of Oat
New York National Guard who also i man seriously injured when the auto
nnke of the showing they made in J mobile truck in which they were riding
behalf of the state troops. The Guards- j was struck by a train on a branch line
men's committee was agreed that .near here. The truck was carried a
there was no constitutional barrier to 'half mile by the engine pilot,
a ver ycomnlete degree of federal con- j
trol over the National Guard. Con
gress had never fully used its power
in that direction, they declared.
INDIANAPOLIS. Feb. 1. Those in
control of national affiairs of the Cnit
ed Mine Workers of America won an
other victory In the convention wben
they defeated V resolution designed to Mohr. instead of hating the doctor aad
exclude national guardsmen and mem-, wishing hjm out of the way. really
hers of the slate constabulary from 4 loved hini and hoped for ultimate re
the organization. conciliation.
President Addresses Largest
Crowd Since He Started On
Present Trip When He
Spoke in Des Moines, Iowa.
DECLARES FAITH IN DE
SIRE OF THE PEOPLE
Lusitania Incident Came Near
Plunging America in War,
. Is One of Inferences Made
by Chief Executive.
. DES MOINES, Feb. 1. Dealing
with the futility of messages and
words of protest to meet the
breaches in intemation law, the
President, advocating prepared
ness, addressed the largest audi
ence of his present trip.
"Do you want a situation such
hat all a president can do is to
write messages and utter words of
protest r he asked. "Why, to ask
the question' is to answer it.
Whenever an international law is
violated by any belligerent, Amer
ica is called upon to register a
voice of protes1 and insistence. If
these breaches should touch the
very honor of the United States do
you wish to do nothing about it?
Do you wish the world to say the
flag pf the United Spates can be
stained with impunity? I know
there is not a man or woman with-'
In my hearing who wishes peace at
the expense of the honor of the
United States."
Thunderous applause punctuated the
address. The President spoke slowly
and gravely. He used emptiatlc ges-
j lures to enforce his words. His dec
laration that the United States wanted
I peace drew a great response. His as
sertion that the self respect of the na
tion must, be preserved elicited a
great demonstration. He declared he
was trying to weigh carefully every
word he said. Wilson reiterated he
had been daily charged to keep tne
Muntry out of the war and also to up-.
'hold its honor.
"And many nights when it
seemed impossible for ma to
sleep." said the President, "be
cause of the apparently inextrica
ble difficulties into which our in
ternational relations were drifting
I said to myself, 'I wonder of the
people of the United States fully
know what that mandate means
to me.' and then sleep came be
cai ss I knew there was not a corn)
munity in America that would not
stand behind me to maintain the
honor of the United States. The
difficulty of keeping America at
peace durinq the Lusitania strug
gle cannot be disclosed now. Per
tans it will never be disclosed or
how anxious and difficult this task
has been. But my heart has been
in it. I have not grudged a single
burden that has been placed upon
me with that end in view.- I know
that not only my hert. but the
heart of America, was In the cause
of peace."
STOPS AT DAVENPORT
DAVENPORT. Iowa. Feb. 1. Thi
"resident's pecial was welcomed by
fifteen people en ron'e from Chirago.
He trade no address but merely greet
ed the crowds at the stations. The
Towd renuested to hear Mrs. Wilson.
The President said: "She hasn't as
much cheek as I." In a brief rear
platorm address he said:
"I want you to feel the seriousness
of my mission. I love peace profound-
v srd hope to preserve it. but tho
time may come for you to ask me why
n Am' nt ikA natinn'ri llnnnr f
j .. . . .1
a om pmim imimi """
u.n.i .,.... .... ..... .... .. . . .
must be preparea to do tnat.
a rrtnciuT uADonut v lunincn
. nvviut., . ..w .. .
I cntX'VL'l I Tn. . LAh Tk. Pm.
KILLED AT KINGMAN
KINGMAN. Feb. 1. Harry Williams
of Iaadna. Calif., a truck driver.
TO SAVE MOTHER.
PROVIDENCE. Feb. 1. Testifying
In behalf of his mother Elizabeth
Mohr. who is on trial charged with
instigating two negroes to murder her
! husband. Charles Mohr. her son aged
ten. gave testimony to snr-nort t
contention of the defense
that Mrs.
