ft J J. J J J .Jti.T.j.'tj. "$5 , ,H.
. "W' t .
4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4, J, ,1. .J. .J. .J. .J. ,J, ,
THE WEATHER.
! IMAGER is an ndtertlslnj .J.
ft Keiluft tfyit pilngn result. Onr
I ratci ao consistent ttIIIi clrcn-
I Jntlon. Rooks open to Inspection.
: 4.
J J .J J J .J J. J. J, .J. ,J4 J. .J,
J "Cloudy nnd colder by night
li
, j'MUdnfUdnjrj Thursday fair." !
I'"
J J J 4j J J J J
fJcflAxr XKrunircAX-titi.
mil rrvjiita WDaKR-uu
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1910.
ONE COP Y ONE CENT.
iHH3 VrSl-il "L
0
i
if.
"f
y1
conversing iicuan natche.
Sonic people nre so mnrfnl queer,
They simply enn't refrain
From Melting, when Hie wnlerN elenr,
llerntiso It doesn't ra In.
And when It really rnlim n spell.
And streams till up In torrents,
You'll hear these seltsnnic people jell,
"This mud U hii abhorrence!
im:s ix Cincinnati.
Alr. John Hardeman, oged 62, for
- merly of this city, died Monday evc
' ningat Ills homo in Cincinnati, from
the after effects of n severe case of
grip.
He was n successful contractor and
went to Cincinnati from here nbout
twenty years ngo.
He is survived by Ills wife, who wns
it Miss Jacobs of Maysvillc, three sons,
Lawrence and Chnrlcs of Cincinnati,
nnd. John, Jr., of Savannah, On., nnd
cho'slstor, Mrs. W. 1.. Stlckley of this
city.
Tho funeral will be held from his
late home Thursday afternoon nt 2
o'clock. Interment In Spring drove
remetcry.
honor gckst.
Mrs. I.uclcn Maltby of Washington,
this county, one of the most gifted and
highly cultured ladies In this state,
will bo tho honor guest at the sliver
tea anniversary entertainment Satur
day afternoon of Uobecca llryan
Boone Chapter, D. A. H., of Newport
Jat tho residence of Mrs. James M. Ar
nold. Tho program will Include selec
tions by Miss Logan of Mlddlcsboro,
Miss Rutledgo of Kingstown, lnd., and
Miss Metcalf of Mlddlcsboro.
INSTALLING MACHINERY.
Tho machinery nt tho Modern
laundry Company's new plant Is be
ing Installed nnd plans nre being mndc
for removing tho business from West
Second street to tho now home on East
Second.
The U. & N. railroad is said to be
planning to furnish through fnst train
servlco between Louisville and Ate
Koherts, In the far Eastern Kentucky
roalliclds near tho Virginia border,
probably within tho next sixty days.
Our price this week for buttcrfnt,
31 cents Mnysvllic. lirlng It In any
day, nny tlmo of the day, nnd rccclvo
your check promptly.
MAYSVILLB MODEL CREAMERY,
Representative Harry Cornell Intro
duced a bill In tho Kentucky House
Monday to amend tho law relating to
the registration of motor vehicles.
Kentucky has quarantined ngainst
certain portions of Illinois because of
foot nnd mouth dlseaso In one of the
counties of Hint stntc.
CONDITION MUCH IStTUOVED.
Tho condition of John Russell
Onntlcy, tho lB-ycar-old son.of,Coun
cllmnn nnd Mrs. Patrick Oantlcy of
East Third street, who was Injured
n fow dnys ngo, Is greatly Improved
this morning.
COUNTY COUKT.
J. H. Hicks appeared In court benr-
Ing his commission as notary public
from Coventor A. O. Stanley nnd wns
sworn in as such with S. A. Shnnklln
ns surety on bond.
About 1,000,000 feet of walnut lum.
bu' wns destroyed by a fire nt Ivol,
near I'lkevlllo. It Is supposed to be
the result of an Incendiary.
John Colgnn, aged 7G, pioneer chow
Ing gum manufacturer of tho United
Stntcs, died at his home In Louisville
Tuesday of Dright's disease.
Mrs. Matthew Higgtns and Mrs. Earl
Colgrovo of Newport, wcro week-end
guests of Sister Mary Rose, Ordor of
St. Frnncls, In this city. .
fluouxniioo
DOES HIS
KTUXT.
ANNUAL
MAIL OKREHS PROMPTLY FILLED.
For all grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices arc right. Order
today. Toyntz Bros., Covington, Ky.
Kenneth Clark, editor of the Gretna
Green at Aberdeen, has taken n step
upward. Tuesday ho was promoted to
the chief clerkship In tho deputy col
lector's odlce at Cincinnati. j
The House contest committee re
ported In favor of seating S. C. Hobbs,
Democrat, nnd unseating "t'ncle Hill"
Allen, Republican, of Clinton and
Wayne counties.
:The Great:
January Clearance Sale
AT
J. WESLEY LEE'S
Of Men's and Boys' Clothing,
Furnishings and Shoes
was a wonderful success, far beyond our expecta
tion, which proves to us that the public appreci
ates a real bargain event such as we have given
them.
In our Clothing Department ONLY the
same EXTREMELY LOW PRICES will con
tinue through the month of February.
We still have a lot of Men's $s Suits at
$3.98 and Youths' Suits at $27987 but they won't
last long. Come quick.
J. WESLEY LEE
STATISTICAL HEPOUT OF THE
CITY MISSION FOR JANUARY.
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
We wish to thank our many friends and customers for tbeir liberal patronage tor this,
ear fourth year in business, which has proven to be considerable beyond our anticipation, for
which we are very thankful.
We are now looking forward to a greatly increased business the coming year and we continued; 187 visits were mado by
idle iHMoiicu ins idicii inu most imuiuveu equipment lor nanoimg your ornerc, wmcn guar- tho superintendent; 49 investigations,
nnl... IiTaU ..j- .,,.,1, ..J ..,:.f--i:. .ti i l . i i rit :
mi ice j uigii guuE nun nui niu idinidiiiiuii iu an, u uie ltsi (iussibib puces.
We are leaders in our line.
Forty-nine families applied for ro-
lief during the month, 19 new aud 30
Tho groundhog Is duo to stir him
self today nnd poko his nose out from
his burrow. Ho emerges surveying
tho Inndscnpo with n knowing eye. If
he boos his own shadow ho discreetly
rctlrcs for this sago prognostlcntor
knows there arc yet six weeks of
winter to come. Hut If tho day be
cloudy nnd thcro Is no shadow, ho
wiggles his noao' with n growing In
ward satisfaction nnd Joins tho hardier
nnlmnls nnd birds in the hunt for
grub.
Todny, therefore, Is frnught with
grave meaning to thoso whoso wcl
faro depends on wind nnd wavo, sun
shine nnd shndow, or change of time
nnd tide. If there Is n groundhog llv
Ing In your vicinity, go watch him
carcrully. For on February 2, with n
regularity equalled only by tho move
ment of the sun nnd the stars, out he
pops for his look around.
Of course It's a fnblo that hns been
handed down from Reiteration to gen
eration, hut it Is one that appeals to
the Imagination, and It lingers. There
nre peoplo In some parts of the coun
try who really pin their faith upon it.
Dut the naturalist has np faith in the
fnblc.'for h6 has found that IJrothcr
Groundhog is ono of the sleepiest of
the hlbcrnntors and is usually ono of
tho Inst to nppear.
IiI('K.SON.l'L'T.HAN.
Sunday nfternoon nt Ilatavia, O., Mr.
C. At. I'utman of this city, and Allsa
Elizabeth Dickson of Uatnvla, were
united In marriage. Tho wedding Is
the culmination of a long courtship'.
After n brief honeymoon the couple ar
rived hero Tuesday and took up their
residence In the New Central hotel.
Air. Putman Is the chief candy maker
at F. H. Trnxel & Company, nnd in
his short stay In this city has made
many friends who wish him nnd his
bride much happiness.
NIFTY CARTOON.
Those Interested In tho .Maysvillc
tobacco mnrkct this season are show
ing with no little pride tho cartoon of
the different characters of this sen
son's market drawn by Mr. II. P.
Owen, ono of tho tobacco broker.
The cartoon Is one of the best pieces
of work seen in Ataysvillo in many
years and the tobaccolsts have had n
plate mado of It and arc selling many
copies.
FIINKRAL THIS AFTERNOON, j
Tho funeral of .Mrs. Margaret 10.
Chllds, aged 79, who died at her resi
dence on tho Mnysvlllo and Mt. Ster-'
ling plko Alondny morning, will bo
held from the Into residence this nfter
noon nt 2 o'clock, with services by Rev.
John Harbour of tho First Presby-'
tcrlan church, of which tho deceased
was n zealous member. Interment In
tho Mnysvlllo cemetery.
Thomas Chalmers, noted grand op-
ern singer, singing nt Cincinnati now,
enn bo. heard nt J. T. Kacklcy & Com
pany's on tho Edison. Mr. Kdlson
snys his rich baritone voice Is most
nenrly perfect out of 1,780 records he
hns tried. We havo many of his rec
ords nnd Invite you to hear him.
f DILL PICKLESl
S In Bulk 15 Cents Dozen
Just Tapped-A Barrel of Extra Fancy rU I :
NEW ORLEANS MOLASSES y 65C Gallon I !
Air. T. J. lllack of Urooksvlllc, was
In this city Tuesday attending the to
bacco sales.
Mr. II. P. Winter of Urooksvlllc, was
In Ataysvillo Tuesday selling his crop
of tobacco.
Air. Ad Allison of Nepton, wns In this
city Tuesday attending tho tobacco
sales.
DINGER BROS.,
107 West Second Street.
Phone 20.
Air. H. A. Carr, Jr., Is In Charleston, Air. C W Powell of Ellzavllle, wns
W. Vn., on business. ,a business visitor In this city Tuesday.
3 LOOK HERE!
m Why Go to the Trouble and Expense of Ordering From a City
When We Have a Complete Line of
s Trusses, Crutches $ Abdominal Supports
3
s
At a Reasonable Price. See Us.
5 M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
Air. S. II. Jackson of Fleming
county, wns n Alaysvlllo visitor Tuesday.
That county health officers have full
power under tho stato law to enforce
vncclnatlon of schdol children was de
cided by Judge Samuel D. KIrby.
THE HOME OF QUALITY CLDTHEB
TWENTY-FIVE YEARS AGO MOST MEN WENT TO A CUSTOM BOOT MAKER FOR
THEIR SHOES, BUT HOW MANY GO TODAY?
The shoe stores multiplied nstoundingly because the sell more shoe lit, comfort and value
than the custom boot maker. The ready-for-use makers have studied and classified every foot
until they can fit it exactly. Tt is simply a matter of a courteous clerk measuring your foot
to find the right standard, size nnd shape; then you have shoe satisfaction.
THAT IS TRUE OF CLOTHING ALSO. IN "HEOHINGER" CLOTHES YOU CAN GET
THE EXACT FIT YOU CRAVE WHETHER YOU ARE STOUT OR SLIM, TALL OR SHORT.
A very slight adjustment is probably all you need this is possible because we have con
ccntrated fifty-five years of close study on the assembling of clothes that do fit. Tho values,
the fabrics and the workmanship arc high in keeping.
Make it a point to come in and let us prove it to you.
D. KCBOtilTSrca-ESR, &. CO.
THE MASON LUMBER COMPANY
a. a. Mclaughlin.
CORHER LIMESTONE AND SECOND
STREET. PHONE 519.
L. X. HEIIAtf.
E
'"TwbbjEsI
A prominent physician tells us that "hobbies" arc hcnlthy S
tilings for us to have, and we feel that we must be blessed with
unusually good health, as we have ALWAYS had a hobby "
and it 's
HARNESS!
Years ngo, when leather sold for nineteen cents a pound,
our boast was that we made the best harness that could bo
made of good leather, good thread and good workmanship.
Now, when that same kind of leather is selling for forty-nine
nnd fifty cents a pound, we still maintain that wo hnvo tho
best harness that can be made. All you have to do to prove
that we nre telling you facts is to go to the next "sale," and
hear Col. Hensley Hnwkins say iu that musical drawl for which
ho is so famous, "This is a set, gentlemen, of Miko TJrown'H
Harness. What do you bid!" Then's when you can seo tho
farmer "set up and take notice," for ho knows there will ho
some bidding on that harness.
This is tho time of tho year, when Harness is foremost iu
every farmer's mind, and this is the time of the year, nlso,
when wo are ready to sell him. All winter long our men have,
been making tip harness for Spring trade, and now wo aro
ready. Of course, it's higher than whon our grandfathers
used to buy it, but, considering tho price of leather, it's a
wonder how low in price and high iu quality tho Square Deal
harness is.
Come in, gentlemen, we are ready to rig up thoso horses.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
HHMIHmMIMHHimillHW
EVERYONE LIKES THE FLAVOR OF WHEATINA
TRY ONE l'ACKAGK. IT SOLYKS THE IIHEAKFAST l'KOULKM.
Jl'ST TAl'1'EI) ANOTHER DAHKEL OV THE FINEST NEW 0KLKAN8
VOLASSES EVER DROUGHT TO TOWN.
MUIL A 40OMRAH Fkea 43,
102 revisits and 36 collateral calls:
124 applicants interviewed in tho Alls
felon office.
Alaterlal relief given: Garments
85; old shoes, 18 pairs; now shoes, IG
pairs; 8 hats; coal given 10 times;
'bedding given 18 times; 9 binnkets, ft
comforts.
Special diet given 4 times; dugs
times; 6 new suits and 8 new coats,
which had been donated by Alerz Dros
and D. Hechlngcr & Comapny, given
out. Advlco given 81 times; cleanll
uess and order secured Iu six homes
Alaterlal relief secured from other
sources: Employer interviewed and
kindly consented to pay rent for one
family Indefinitely ; coal nnd grocer
les given by Councllmen for 6 faml
lies; transportation secured from ono
woman and two children from Alnyor
Leo; ono young girl given lodging and
two meals, while awaiting tho decision
of Juvenllo Judgo Rico. Work se
cured for ono boy and four woman.
Homeless 3Icn and Women.
Twelve men applied for rollof.
Lodging and breakfast given three
young men, one coat, two shirts given,
dinner given ono woman nnd two chil
dren.
Mght school held two nights each
week with an attendance of eight pu
pus. uellglous services held each
TueBday night, average attendnnco 30.
Illblo BChool held on Sunday from 2
to 3 p. ni., average attendnnco 48. The
Boys' Club with 15 boys ns merabors,
in f ti r 111 itpirinv ii i rrh fu iinMAH
I feuto uuuii'o, tuutfii;
ana marenmg anu a general good tlma
Is enjoyed by tho boys. Refreshments
are alwnys served. The annual birth
day party given by tho Board of Alan
agors of tho City Allsslon on January
20, 191G, was a splendid success both
socially and financially.
Tho .Mission Home Is open from 3
a. m. to 0 p. m., and tho publlo Is wel
come to use this homo for social meet
ings, church soclotlcs, reading and
rest rooms. CORA A. PEDDlCOHD.
Having decided to move our plumb
ing business to rooms on west side
St. Charles Hotel building, will sacri
fice prices ou aas and Coal Ranges.
J31-2t OKO. II. TRAXEL.
8
I
Alius ElUabeth Stone, the popular
teacher at Wedonla, who has boen con
fined to her home with a severe at
tack of acute indigestion, la somewhat
better.
COMING-AN IMPORTANT EVENT
Hunt's Linen Bale February 3rd
In spite of war prices,
a stock of linens that will
Maysvillc.
And n fact of greatest Importance is that positively
of linen, "before-the-war" prices havo been maintained.
In splto of scarcity of goods. In splto of almost Insurmountable obstacles, next Thursday wo will present
challenge comparison In quality, quantity and prices with any store iu a town thrco times tho slzo of
no advance In prices has been mado. In yardage linen and in separate pieces
Law Prices an All Mussed Underwear
From use In ledge and window display, wo have some nightgowns, princess slips, corset cover nnd drawer combinations that need a
trip to the laundry, so we havo repriced them very low.
$1.50 Mull or Lawn Slips, lavender or blue, now 75c. Not many.
Nightgowns handsomely trimmed reduced as follows: $1.25 gowns $1.00. $1.50 gowns $1.25. $3 gowns $1.50.
Corset Cover-and-Urawcr Combinations trimmed In laco or embroidery. $2 Combinations $1.00. $1.25 Combinations 75c.
REarly-tD-TSrEar Bargains
This season's garments. $25 Suits for $12 and $20 Suits for $10. Not many for bargains llko these sell fast.
A fow silk and velvet and all-silk dresses reduced ns follows: Ono $22 dress for $11.25. Ono $19.50 dress for $9.75. Two $17.50
dresses $8.75. Three $15 dresses $7.50.
About n dozen plush coats. They are all tho finest quality Salt's plush tho soft, lustrous toxturo that looks llko fur. They are now
priced $10 to $19 which represents a saving of 33 to 50.
Smart wool coats Iu black and colors. $7, $8 and $9 for $10 to $15 Coats.
GARMENTS NOT THIS SEASON'S.
ulack suits of high grado material with coats lined throughout with best quality Skinner's satin, $5. A fow colored suits for $3.98,
Coats up to $25 for $5. Fine all-wool coatings skillfully tailored.
Separate skirts of strictly all-wool fabrics for $1, original prices $0 to $9.
WANTED.
Second-hand desk and cabinet.
Ledger Publishing Company.
See
Air. Clnrenco Alathows has moved his
Insurance otllco from Court street to
Room 24 First National Bank building.
Miss Bona Fitzgerald is in Lexington
to attend the. funeral of her cousin,
Allsa Alarlo Uuchauana.
Air. V. W. Dugan of Vancoburg, was
a business visitor In this city Tuesday.
Come to the Big Sale
Don't Mind the Weather
You can buy a Ladies' Suit at half price, a Ladies' or Child's
! Coat at half price, a Dress at a ridiculous price.
; There are bargains all over the store so you had better come and
I buy while goods are low.
! Remember, We repair Shoes while you wait.
2 , m M
iXMtSC 3ESS SEE wMEtt JEB) ist
v 4
.V '
- .a
'Mi
