IK lead, $6.10; spelter, not quoted; cor- f ' -,, T "" Thursday Increasing cloudiness with H
W per, firm; electrolytic, $25.7526.00. W "'""h Portion M
m ! HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTYc 9 H
K Porty-slxth Year-No 28. Price: Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING FEBRUARY 2, 1916. -Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postoffiee QgfPT, m v ' 1
1 Germans Line Steamer Appam With
Hi1
I Bombs Connected by a Secret Wire
IH' .
Jk OFFICER THREATENS PASSENGERS
1 AND CREW WITH DESTRUCTION
fin "
IB German Lieutenant Tells British Officers Slightest Effort to
B Oppose His Authority Will Be Punished by Sending Ship
Jlv to Bottom Stood Ready to Press Secret Button
wmL All Germans Aboard Are Expert Seamen
AR Nevada Citizen Shows Papers and His Re-
jfif lease Is Demanded Neutrality Board
K Decides Appam Is Prize Ship.
9
IK Old Point Comfort, Va., Feb. 2 A naturalized American
E citizen, G. A. Tagliaferri, was discovered by Immigration In-
luS spector Morton today aboard the Appan. Morton immediate-
K ly served written notice on Lieutenant Berg to release him.
IHr Berg made no response and Morton reported the case to Wash-
iH ington. Tagliaferri was naturalized in Eureka county, Nevada.
H Fie had been in Eccompe mining gold and was on his way
H home via England. He had not made, known to Lieutenant
W Berg that he was an American citizen, but he produced his
M second naturalization papers when Inspector Morton appeared.
M r
,Jftf Washington, Feb. 2. Late today it wras announced at the
& state department that the neutrality board had held the Appam
H ito be a prize and then the announcement was quickly with-
HJ drawn. The general impression prevailed, however, that the
H board had so held, but that it would not be announced until
1 later.
H London, Feb. 2, 3 p. m. It is understood here that the
H Appam carried 500,000 pounds sterling in bullion which prob-
I ably will be claimed as a prize, as bullion is contraband.
9 Old Point Comfort, Va.. Feb. 2.
t How the captured British steamer
Appam was lined with bombs which
" cciuld be touched off by the German'
m I prize crew at any sign of an uprising
J among her four hundred captives, was
Hi told by persons on the ship to Quaran
m tine Officer McCaffery, and he relat-
I ed the story today
I "According to stories told me by
Bn passengers," said McCaffrey, "many
Bn bombs are planted about the ship and
Wm all of them can be exploded by the
wml touching of a secret button. The
ft). bombs were placed by the Germans
HK immediately after they took posses
Hftf sion of the boat The Appam's com
Ha mander, Captain Harrison and the oth
Sw er English officers, weie warned that
ok any attempt to overpower the prize
(m crew would result in the ship being
M blown up
t IF Raider Was Disguised.
&$?' "Captain Harrison told me that the
EH aider, disguised as a tramp steamer,
Kl was In sight of the Appam for half a
H day before she attempted to effect
H a capture. She would play In and out,
H Tar aiid near from the Appam and so
H disreputable was" her appearance that
H even the captain remarked to his crew
B about it.
"After firing a shot over his bow,
H stopping tbe Appam, dropping her
Hj false forecastle head disclosing a bat
Hf tery of guns, several Germans board
H "ed the Appam. They told the passen
j gcrs, many of whom had become
M frightened and were adjusting life
m belts, that there was no danger. No
K one would bo harmed, the Germans
B explained, as long as there was no
B resistance. All of the raiders were
K from German merchantmen and were
B of the highest type of seamen.
m Passengers Well Cared For.
H "The passengers today are well car-
Hj ed for. There are 177 women on
m board. The only child is a negro
baby."
H Dr. McCaffery said that he under-
H stood the raider was from Kiol and a
H type built since the war began. It
H was patterned after an English tramp
B steamer.
H Uncertainty still exists as to whelh-
E er it was the Moewe that captured the
m?' Appam. While some of the Qerman
MEk seamen wear caps bearing the: name
tt. "Woewe," others have caps marked
MF "Taula."
B Passengers to Come Ashore.
B Washington, Feb. 2 Collector Ham-
H ilton was Instructed to allow all per-
L sous aboard the Appam, except the of-
H fleers and men of the prize of the
B ' ciew, to como ashore. It was said
no final decision regarding the ship's
H status had been reached.
j Prince Hatzfeldt, naval attache of
H the German embassy at Washington,
H said aftor his interview with Lieuten-
H ant Berge, today that tho Appam was
WjlL captured by the Moewe. He declined
IP to state the location of the Moewe
at this time.
II London, Feb. 2f 12:02 p. m. Tho
1, British consul at Norfolk reports that
I the status of the Appam has been re
I ferred to Washington. The foreign
i office has not been informed that any
HI decision has been reached.
Hi, Appam Considered War Prize.
Old Point'' Comfort, Va., Feb. 2
HI Prince von Hatzfelt, personal repre-
Hi sentatlve of Count von Bernstorff, the
HKi ' German ambassador, arrived hec to-
HK$ day to report on the Appam affair.
HjK He -conferred with the German vice
fiA consul, L. Marshall von Schilling and
Hi later went to the Appam for an iuter-
Hfli -view with Lieutenant Berg.
HM "l am certain'," said the prince,
Hulv "that under the treaty of the United
RjVjK States with Prussia, the Appam will
be declared a Avar prize and turned
over to the German prize court. The
passengers undoubtedly will be lib
erate'dshortly." Insurance Men Puzzled.
London, Feb. 2, 10:52 a. m. Per
plexity regarding the question of in
surance on the Appam is admitted at
Lio.vd's, as the case is an unprece
dented one. The solution of the puz
zle depends largely on the attitude of
the United States government as to
wether the Appam is to be considered
a merchantman or n Germau cruiser.
She is considered a war loss by the
underwriters, however, and it is be
lieved she will not be announced at
Llovd's as having arrived safely at
'port, as would have been done if she
had ' completed her journey to Eng
land The sinking of the other vessels by
the Germans means a large loss to
the underwriters. It probably will
amount to about $3,000,000.
Washington, Feb. 2. State depart
ment officials indicated today that if
the Appam. if finally held to be a
prize, the Prussian-American treaty of
1828 is more likely to govern the case
than is The Hague convention. This
would mean that the Appam would bo
turned over to her German captors,
and In that case some officials express
the view that tho German prize crew
to keep her from falling into the hands
of the British, as would seem Inevit
able If she left port, might take the
ship to the three-mile limit and sink
her.
In case she Is held to have become
a German fleet auxiliary, she will have
the choice of leaving port after a cer
tain time for supplies or repairs or
Interning "for the war, as have the
Prinze Eltel Frlederlck and the Kron
prinz Wllhelm.
Prussian Treaty Provisions.
The original Prussian treaty of
1779, provides:
"The vessels of war, public and pri
vate of both paTtles shall carry freely
wheraoever they please the vessels
and effects taken from their enemies
without being obliged to pay any du
ties, or fees to officers of the admir
altjr, or the customs or nny others;
nor shall such prizes be arrested,
searched or put under legal process
when they come to and enter the
ports of the other party, nut may (free
ly be carried again at any time by
their captors to the places expressed
in the communications which the
commanding officer of such vessel
shall be obliged to show.
"But conformably to the treaties ex
isting between tho United States and
Great Britain, no vessel that shall
have madf a prize upon British sub
jects shall have a right to shelter In
the ports of the United States, but if
forced therein by tempest or anv other
danger or accident of the sea. they
shall be obliged to depart as soon as
possible."
This latter provision would have
compelled the departure of the Appam
to the almost certain fate of British
cruisers off the capes, but tho treatv
expired by limitation in 1810. When
it was renewed this latter provision
which removed BHtlsh vessels from
the scope of the article waB specifical
ly eliminated and the treaty of 182S
which now is in force, gives German
prizes tho right to come and go.
Neutrality Board Meeting.
The neutrality bpard mot today to
consider the case.
Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, the British
ambassador, today formally asked
Secretary Lansing ior the release of
the Appam and return to the British
owners, under article 21 of The Hague
convention,, which the British author-.
i r
Ities claim has superseded the Prussian-American
treaty. The secretary
took the ambassador's argument un
der consideration.
British officials here scout the the
ory that the raider Moewe slipped
through the Kiel canal under Swedish
colors and got out into the Atlantic.
They have a theory she is a German
merchantman which got out of an
AzoreB port nearly a year ago and has
been missing since.
Collector Hamilton Reports.
Collector Hamilton, in his report
placed today before the neutrality
board, said he did not believe the Ap
pam was captured by the Moewe but
thought some other 'merchantman,
larger and faster than the Moewe, had
made the capture and had sunk the
seven merchantmen off Africa. Lieu
tenant Berg, he said, would not reveal
the name of the ship.
The report said Berg had not re
quested time for repairs or provision
ing beyond that necessary for taking
on supplies for the crew and prison
ers aboard.
Little Light on Situation.
The report throws little new light
on the situation.
A factor that must be weighed by
the neutrality board is that several
Englishmen on the Appam were gun
ners on merchantmen that fought the
commerce raider before they submit
ted. Prjsoners Eager to Be Free.
All efforts to communicate in any
way with the notable British prison
ers, including Sir Edward and Lady
Meriwether and their suite, has been
unsuccessful Even telegrams to them
received up to today, had not been de
livered The prisoners themselves
were almost frantic in their efforts
to get their story to the world, some
of them resorting to the possible ex
pedient of dropping notes overboard
through portholes After their 16 days'
capivity all were anxious to get
ashore and be free to go their way.
Newspapermen aboard Immigration
Inspector Morten's boat when he went
to board the Appam today made fu
tile attempts to gain access to the
liner while they sat in the launch
alongside. Several passengers came
to the rail' and inquired for newspa
pers. "Ip it true that the German cruiser
has been sunk?" asked a British sea
man anxiously
During the conversation, German
sailors began loading sides of beef
from a launch on to the Appam.
The first cabin passengers and the
lowliest members of the crew have
been living on the same rations since
the Appam was captured. Breakfast
yesterday morning consisted of bread,
kippered herring and coffee.
The only survivors of the Clan Mc
Tavish, aboard the Appam, are four
Lascar seamen. Three were wounded
in the fight with the Moewe and at
least one of them is expected to die
Neutrality Board Meets.
Washington, Feb. 2. Early today
the neutrality board, the unofficial ad
visory body composed of James Brown
Scott, former solicitor of the state
department and Captains Knapp and
Oliver of the navy, had a preliminary
meeting and considered what facts
have been gathered about the Appam.
Any conclusions It reaches are not
binding upon the state department,
but are accepted as haVing weight.
Officials pointed out today that the
case of the British collier Farn, cap
tured by the German cruiser Karls
ruhe, re-named the Odenwald and fin
ally interned in San Juan, Porto Rico,
might be regarded as a somewhat sim
ilar case. The British authorities con
tend the Odenwald should be turned
back to the British owners, in the
status of a prize, but the American
government hold she had taken on
the character of an auxiliary, and she
was interned.
German embassy officials pointed
out that the Prussian-American treaty
made late In the eighteenth century,
provides the right for either the Unit
ed States, or Prussia, to bring prizes
of war into one another's ports and
would seem to require the Appam to
bo turned over to the prize crew. The
Hague convention, however, Is of a
later date although the United States
did not subscribe to the article pro
viding for "sequestration" of a prize
in the port of a neutral.
Some officials express the opinion
that the case was so complex and had
so many conflicting phases that it fin
ally might find its way to the supremo
court.
00
TRAINS STALLED
IN THE CASCADES
Four Westbound Northern Pa
cific Turned Back Great
Northern Snowed In.
Ellensburg, Wash., Feb. 2 The
heaviest snowfall in thirty years has
blocked all trains across the Cascade
mountains. Northern Pacific, Great
Northern and Chicago. Milwaukee and
St Paul trains are laid up in division
point yardB, or snowbound in the
mountnlns.
Four westbound Northern Pacific
trains are in locnl yards and will be
turned back ajid sent east Yesterday
morning's No. 3 Great Northern, Is
snowbound at Cle Elum. Eastbound
No. 4 was snowed in 1,000 yards from
the station. By using several engines,
a?,ragged out on car at a time,
i he Milwaukee divisional vards near
Ue Elum are under six feet of snow
Th jBtormontlnuaa,
" 1 fel
GERMANS AFTER
MUNITION PLANTS
England's Great Center of In
dustry Objective Point of
the Zeppelin Raiders.
BRITISH BOAST USELESS
Aircraft Brings Home Fact
That Defenses of London
Are of No Avail.
Berlin, Feb. 2, via London, 11:10
a. m. Rumors have circulated here
that the Zeppelin raid on England,
Monday night, was In reprisal for the
Bcralong affair, but The Associated
Press correspondent is assured in au
thoritative quarters that the attack
did not come under that head It is
believed that the Midland section of
Ei.gland was selected for the raid be
cause it Is the center of the munitions
industry and because Liverpool Is tho
center of England's commerce and
that there was a purpose to bring
home to the people of Great Britain
the fact that the boasted defenses of
London do not avail against Ger
many's air craft and it was Intended,
also, to interfere with the prepara
tions being made in England for tho
carrying on of the British operations
in France and Flanders
Tho admiralty office has no further
details to give out regarding the raid
besides those already published, but
leiterates tbe positive statement that
not a single one of the raiding Zep
pelins was injured.
Berlin, Feb. 2, via London, 11 "52 a.
m. The Lokal Anzeiger publishes a
long editorial on the Zeppelin raid
over England, saying that everyone
will be convinced that tho fact Avas
fully justified, on considering the pla
ces visited and their military signifi
cance. It asserts that Liverpool,
which tbe German admiralty announc
ed yesterday was bombarded, is to be
considered primarily as a port of onj
try for American ammunition "whoso
destruction is our sacred duty "
The Lokal Anzeiger continues
"Nottingham, as the chief manufac
turing city of England for lace cur
tains and underwear, could perhaps
have Induced us to be milder if it had
not taken up the manufacture of am
munition. Nottingham has now learn
ed it is dangerous for cities to play
with war equipment and materials
during a war "
Sheffield Making War Materials.
Even before the war, this newspap
er says, Sheffield manufactured
knives, armor plate, guns and projec
tiles and therefore "the oftener Shef
field receives a Zeppelin visit the bet
ter." Grpat Yarmouth Is referred to as
the center of the herring fishcrj',
which has put Its fleet at the service
of the British army.
The Morgenpost speaks in a similar
vein. It asserts the air attack was
justified from a military standpoint
and was necessary because it affected
Important military institutions.
oo
GREAT CROWD
GREETS WILSON
Salute of 21 Guns Fired and
State Troops Escort Party
Through Streets of
Topeka.
GOVERNOR INTRODUCES
Says President Has Sat Undis
mayed on Hottest Lid Oc
cupied by Any Executive
Since Lincoln.
Topeka, Kansas, Feb 2. President
Wilson told, an audience of 5.000 per
sons here today that "America Is not
going to abide the habitual or con
tinual neglect" of its rights under In
ternational law, cither with respect
to the safety of its citizens or Its for
eign commerce.
"For one thing, It may be neces
sary." the president said with an em
phatic gesture, "to use the forces of
the United States to vindicate the
rights of American citizens every
where to enjoy the rights of interna
lion law.
Must Insist on Rights.
"We must "also insist on the right
of Americans to trade with the world,1'
he continued. "We shnll respect any
blockade, but the world needs the
products of the United States and we
will Insist that the world gets them."
The Philippines, the president said,
would be freed.
"That flag will come down," he de
clared, "when we feel that tho Philip
pines can take over their own affairs
and no longer require our protection;
nnd it will bo more honored in tho
lowering than In the raising."
. Topeka, Kansas, Fob. 2. President
Wilson reached Topeka, the turning,
point of his middle western tour, at,
10:10 -today. Hera's grieu&ljy)
state troops through the principal
streets to the residence of Governor
Capper, whose gueBt he was till 1
o'clock when he addressed an audi
ence in the auditorium.
The president and Mrs. Wilson rode
over snow packed streets lu zero wea
ther in open automobiles. A crowd
cheered them at the station, but most
of the city's 50,000 population lined
tho sidewalks along the way to the
governor's residence.
A five minute talk at Lawrence
was on the program but this was
abandoned. The train stopped there
and the president greeted the crowd.
As he stood on the rear platform the
steam from a hose beneath enveloped
him and few of the throng saw him.
Although the weather was cold, the
day was clear. The president tucked
the collar of his great coat up behind
his ears and, Mrs. Wilson's face could
hardly be seen for her furs.
Governor Meets President.
The president was met at the sta
tion here by Governor Capper, a Re
publican, who is not In accord with
the administration preparedness pro
gram. For the first time during his pres
ent term, the president participated in
a long parade, lasting 45 minutes,
through the streets.
The applause along the route was
scattering.
At Governor Capper's home the
president stood on the porch for a
moment and waved his hat to the
crowd.
Capper Praises President.
Governor Capper, introducing the
president to 6,000 persons gathered In
the municipal auditorium, praised him
for keeping the United States out of
war and added that "many of us are
not in accord with the program of vast
armament." He continued:
"We welcome the fullest discus
sion.
Kept Country Out of War.
Governor Capper declared the presi
dent had spoken for peace "as we
would speak for it. He has steadfast
ly kept us out of the terrible conflict
in Europe. He has sat undismayed on
the hottest lid that has seated any
president since Lincoln. Whatever
our opinions In regard to armament,
this day, we Kansans, all are for Pres
ident Wilson and for Mrs. Wilson
too."
Suffrage leaders who had planned
to see the president here and endeav
or to obtain his endorsement of a con
stitutional amendment enfranchising
women apparently were balked by his
going to Governor Capper's home,
from the station.
President Receives Suffragists.
At the last moment Mr. Wilson con
sented to receive a delegation of suf
fragists at Governor Capper's home.
They promised not to detain him
more than five minutes.
A program of songs was provided to
entertain the audience while waiting
for the president One of the songs
which was loudly applauded was "Lot
Us Have Peace "
It was 1:18 o'clock when the pres
ident entered the Auditorium. The
delay was due to the reception of the
suffragists on Governor Capper's
porch as he was starting.
Audience Cheers Chief.
As President Wilson rose after be
ing introduced by Governor Capper
the audience stood and cheered.
Tho president declared be knew
the people of Kansas wanted to know
the facts before taking action.
Clouds Befog Issue.
"I have come," he said, "not to
plead a cause. Tho cause I came for
does not need pleading. I want to
clear away clouds which have arisen
to fog this issue.
"Thoro is no special, new critical
situation which I have to discuss with
you," the president continued, "but I
want you to understand every day,
every hour is critical, while this great
contest continues in Europe.
"It is easy to refrain from unneu
tral acts, but is not easy to refrain
from unneutral thought.
Foreigners Deeply Stirred.
"America is a composite nation.
Many of you people are native born
and think naturally of America first.
But there are many communities with
many people from foreign lands. You
cannot wonder, I do not wonder, that
their sympathies nre stirred.
"The majority of them are stead
fast Americans, nevertheless. For,
while we were born here, they come
here of their own free and deliberate
desire."
oo
PHILIPPINE
INDEPENDENCE
Bill Passes the Senate by the
Aid of the Vice Presi
dent. Washington, Feb. 2. Vice president
Marshall cast a deciding voto in the
senate today on tho Philippine bill,
helping to pass the Clark amendment
to withdraw the sovereignty of the
United States from tho Islands not
sooner than two years and not later
than four. Fifteen Democrats voted
against it.
ZEPPELIN SIGHTED
OFF DUTCH ISLAND
London, Feb. 2, 11:30 a m. A Zep
pelin airship was sighted today off
the coast of Ameland, an island of
The Netherlands in the North sea.
says a dispatch from Amsterdam to
Reuter'8 Telegram company. Tho
coast guard bombarded tho Zeppelin,
the dispatch adds, more than 50 shots
being fired and it is belioved that
eome hit and airship which finally dis
appeared to tho nojthflJrd.
Officers of BhiJBBBfcigrt: tho
Dutch -port: Eiyy-Beppellns; ,
r?.linr,-estwHteed '
HwUy'Hrorg fiMa,
DULGARS AND GERMANS PREPARE" I
TO AMKJJJES AT SALONIKI I
Force of 150,000 Turks to Join in Advance During Month
Greece and Rumania Said to Have Signed Dual Neutralitv
.Treaty British in Mesopotamia Hindered by Bad
Weather and Floods Instructions Are Sent to H
Ambassador Bernstorff That May End H
Lusitania Contention. H
Saloniki.Feb. 1, via Paris, Feb. 2. 3:40 a. m. Two
Greek soldiers, five refugees and seven workmen were killed M
and fifty civilians were injured by the inflammable bombs M
dropped early this morning from the Zeppelin in the raid al-
ready reported. No damage was done to military buildings M
and the population has remained calm. H
Athens, via Paris, Feb. 2, 1 1 :35 a. m. Information re- M
ceived in military quarters here indicates that German and M
Bulgarian troops supported by 150,000 Turks, are likely to
begin an attack on the Franco-British forces at Saloniki about
February 1 5. H
London, Feb. 2, 12:40 p. m. The Adeverul, a newspa-
per of Bucharest, declares that Greece and Rumania have
signed a dual neutrality convention, according to a dispatch
received here by wireless telegraphy from Rome.
London. Feb. 2, 12:05 p. m. A Ren
ter dispatch from Delhi transmits an
official statement issued there regard
ing the fighting in Mesopotamia, say
ing: "General Aylmer's forces hold a
strong position on the river Tigris.
The recent floods have hindered and
made a forward movement imprac
ticable. "General Sir John E. Nixon, who
has handed over the command of the
British forces in Mesopotamia to Lieu-tenant-General
Sir Percy Lake, will
start homeward within a short time."
English Av.'ator Killed.
London, Feb. 2, 11:27 a. m. Lieu
tenant J S. Reed of the Royal Flying
Corps, died today as a result of in
juries sustained at Aldershot by the
fall of a new aeroplane on which he
acting as observer. Lieutenant
Brown, the pilot, was severely injured.
Review of War Situation.
"Reasonable hope for a positive un
derstanding," between the United
States and Germany on the Lusitania
issue is felt in Berlin, according to a
semi-official announcement there to
da'. Instructions sent to Ambassador
von Bernstorff give rise to this hope,
ft is stated
Attack on Saloniki Forecast.
A dispatch from Athens today de
clares that the Germans and Bulgar
ians, together with a force of 150,000
Turks, are likely to begin an attack
on Saloniki about the middle of this
month.
A London message quotes a Buch
arlst newspaper as declaring that
Greece and Rumania have signed a
dual neutrality treaty.'
In Mesopotamia the British are stilL
prevented from attempting to advance
because of bad weather and floods. "
Turks Repulse Russians.
Constantinople, Feb. 2, via Amster
dam and London, 11:50 a. m. An offi
cial statement Issued by the Turkish
war department under date of Feb
ruary 1 says:
"Caucasian front: An enemy bat
talion attacking one of our outposts
at the center was repulsed with a
loss of 200 killed and wounded."
Turkish Crown Prince Dead.
London, Feb. 2, 3:25 p. m. The
suicide of Yuasof Izzedin, heir appa
rent to the Turkish throne, is report
ed In a dispatch received by Reuter's
Telegram company from Constantino
ple by way of Berlin. The message
says the crown prince ended his life
by cutting arteries, in his palace at 7
o'clock yesterday morning. Ill health
Is given as the reason.
London, Feb. 2. The Times, com
menting In a guarded way on the Zep
pelin raid, says:
"Each now raid discloses some
weakness in our preparations. We
Kiipppcit- in tho licht of Monday
night's experiences, that the govern
ment might well revise methods of
dealing with railway traffic in case
of a Zeppelin alarm. Some disloca
tion of traffic is inevitable, but nec
essary steps ought to be taken with
the least possible inconvenience to
the public, which was not the case
on Monday.
"A number of trains heavily laden
with passengers, were suddenly held
up wherever they happened to be and
kept standing for hours without ex
planation. At some stations crowds
were allowed -toather waiting for
trains.
"A single bomb dropped in one of
these buildings would have caused a
shocking massacre. When It is known
that train service will be suspended,
the traveling public ought to be warn
ed not to congregate in stations. The
studied air of mystery thrown over
the interruption of traffic on Monday
was calculated to make yie timid un
easy. Nv
London, Feb. 2, 12:0G p. m. -According
to Berlin newspapers, as quoted
by Reuter's Amsterdam correspond
ent, a new order was put in effect on
February 1 by which the greater part
of all products of all textilo. Industry
was confiscated. (
The Tageblatt says it is highly sig- '
nificant tha-onthls occasion the.
bvcnmejit -does not selasb-rayV'm"' .
terials -for clothing suitable for army IH
or navy officials, all goods for under- H
garments, blankets, inclusive of horso H
cloths, colored linen goods, lining and
sail cloths. H
Berlin newspapers point out that H
this measure discloses a scarcity cf M
these materials and also indicates
that Germany is preparing for a war H
of long duration.
London, Feb. 2, 5:50 p. m. Accorfl- IH
ing to a statement made by the an- IH
thorlties here today, Brldgeman Tay- H
lor detained here on the charge of hav- IH
ing failed to register as an alien en- IH
cmy, has made a confession to the IH
effect that Captain Franz von Papon, IH
recalled German military attache at H
Washington, organized the plan for H
blowing up the Welland canal. H
WORST BLIZZARD I
IN MANY YEARS I
Great Storm Abating in North- B
west But Avalanches and H
Floods Threaten. H
Seattle, Wash., Feb. 2. Rising tern- H
peratures throughout the Pacific M
northwest early today indicated that M
the storm, which in western Washing- M
ton was said to be the worst blizzard M
in 23 years, was abating, but appre- M
henslon was felt that a quick change H
in the weather with its probable ac- M
companying avalanches in the moun- M
tains and floods in the valleys, would H
do great damage. M
Snow is general throughout most of M
Oregon and Idaho snow lying a foot H
deep in the lawlands and being drift- M
ed to a depth of more than 20 feet M
in the mountain passes through which M
tho transcontinental railroads are M
built. All tho railroads running east H
have felt the effect of the tremendous H
snowfall and traffic is practically sus- H
pended. M
Reports from Portland, Oregon, are H
to the effect that rising temperature H
eaily today turned the sleet to rain M
and gave indication that the worst of M
the "silver thaw" was over. Electrio M
llfht wires and street car service In M
manj parts of the city were demoral- H
ized by falling trees borne down by IH
their excessive weight of Ice. Some 1
of tho residence districts were in jH
darkness last night Telegraph serv- tH
ice to the southward was spasmodic IH
Portland public schools were closed M
today on account of the storm and the jl
uncertainty of transportation facili- jH
ties Some of the schools were com- M
polled to close yesterday on account H
of a shortage of fuel. H
Snow Blocks Trafflo. H
Seattle, Wash., Feb. 2. Eighteen In- H
dies of snow on the ground stopped JB
street car traffic here today, dlsorgan- H
ized the public schools and crippled jl
business and manufacturing. H
No overland train has arrived here M
since seven p. m. yesterday. The M
Great Northern and the Chicago, Mil- M
waukee and St. Paul railroads are not jH
moving trains on their mountain divl- M
sions. The Northern Pacific is work- . M
ing with snow plows. H
Eight Perish In Storm. H
Juneau, Alaska, Feb. 2. Eight mon M
perished in tho recent storm, accord- H
ing to advices received here today. jH
Tho fishing schooner Edison, of Ta- M
coma, was wrecked on Capo Decision jH
and her crew of six perished. Two H
men were lost from the fishing H
schoonor Eunice. The gas boat W. N. M
was wrecked at Capo Bendel and two JM
men lost Herbert Allen was frozen Jm
to death near the Olympia mine. H
People Wading to Work. H
Portland, Ore., Feb. 2. Schools M
were closed here today, street car H
traffic was demoralized in many Parts n H
of the city and man andjtyonien waded .H
to work in icy slush tQVAM.51&?Jft'i- M
as a result otiiSKiW!M
v yjffi ' ffiffift ?jF - Si' " :&&.M
