(Leather FORECAST: Snow Today and Thursd&i
8 Days Moire
ft® Register
Time it getting short. Unless
jrou register by February 10, you
wiU lose your vote in both the pri
mary and the final elections. Do
it now.
TMOUSAMDS OF PEOPLE T O SLEEP DOWM TOWN
TM» la tha Way Thouaanda of Paopla Got to Their Work Wadnaaday
Marnlng.
JOSHUA GREEK
, WlOWt ■ VMHHHV
TO LEAD FIGHT
JOSHUA GRF.EX. capitalist,
president of the Pugct
Sound Navigation Co..
owner of the Joshua Green
block.
• • *
PERRY POLSON. president
of the Poison Implement Co.
• • •
A C. MITCHELL, manager
of the Butler hotel
Theae three men comprise the
committee named Wednesday by T.
p. Rockwell to represent the cltl
ssa* of Be«Ule and the Northwest
la their flgbt for an adjustment of
Mfltosd tourist rates to place thla
locality on an equality with Callfor-
»ia.
#tookwel| was authorized at a
ijiai* meeting of cltUens held a
week ago at the American theatre
to appoint a committee for the pur
j«se of stimulating other cities
tbroout 'he states of Washington,
Idaho and Oregon to take up the
campaign.
Will Line Up Northweat
The dutiea of the committee will
be to send to all commercial or
gfcnizatlona In auch dtiee literature
bearing on the $17.60 differential in
railroad rate* from Chicago to Ran
I' Francisco and return, which mak»*
It poanlhle for tourist* to travel via
i Southern point* cheaper than by
sway of the Northwest.
* 'it will be thoroly explained that
the Southern Pacific, Union Pacific
and O-W. R. Il S. control fhia
cheaper rate, to the great
of the three Northwestern
state*. and every city will be urged
to take an active hand li, the fight
to eliminate the differentia!.
Green to Return Soon
in chooaing thla committee,"
aMd Rockwell, "I endeavored to get
men who afe moat Influential, and
who, at the aame time, have a keen
personal Intereat In winning thla
fight agnlnat the rallroada "
Jothoa Green. at preaent In Chl
cago. will return in lea* than two
Weeks.
He already ha* taken a hard In
the fight, and la Intereated, with ev
ery other at earn boat owner on Pu
g»t aound, from a personal atand
polnt
Tourist a. If encouraged 'o come
to Seattle by fair rallroßj rates,
would u*e hla ateamer* In making
aide trip*.
I I'nder preaent conditions. the
I Northwest get« hut 2</i per cent of
■ tourists who annually visit the Pu-
I' :'lc coast
Suggested by Reynolds
perry Poison'* namn wai suggest
k *1 by Chairman C \ IJevnolds, of
public service < ordinlsslon, to
efforts the present n.agnl
Title of the campaign is In a great
l easure due /
A Mitchell. as tnknacr of the
J' ltler hotel, one of tk»e 2,250 h del*
I" thl« Mate that silffer from the
J resent rate*, has M
in tha campaign frfcm tha outset.
land will look after tha Impor'ar.t
matter of iDtareatlng oilier hotel
owner* Id tbe three atatea afferte<i
Work along this line will be «om
menced at once, with the hope of
winning the fight In the interstate
commerce communion In time to *e
dire for the Northweet a fair share
of nest aniDmer'• tourist travel
WILSON POINTS
OUT WAR DANGER
Tells Topeka Audience U. S.
May Have to U»e
Force
ADDRESSES BIG CROWD
TOPEKA. Feb 2.—Hailed by
Gov. Capper aa the man who
"haa aat undismayed *pon the
hotteat lid alnca Lincoln's
time." President Wllaon apoka
here thla afternoon to 3,000
crammed Into the auditorium.
Tha crowd that had braved
zero weather to hear about
preparedneae. voiced approval
of tha governor's—"Kansas ad
mlrea that kind of grit"—by a
mighty roar of applauaa.
Other thouaanda outside bat
tled to gain sdmleaion to tha
hall, already Jammed, even In
tha aislsa. but upon being
promlaed an overflow mast
ing at tha high achooi. retired
there.
"You will realize," snld Wilson
at the outaet. "that It Is because I
felt. It my Imperative duty to as
»lst In clarifying Judgment, And to
sweep away things Irrelevant and
untrue that I came here. I want
you to understand that every day
Is critical while the great conflict
across the water endure"
Eaay to Start Fire
"Everywhere thruout America
there are combustible* and It Is
• aay to start a fire when the air
Is full of sparks It has been our
desire, however, to see that these
sparks do not touch the magazines
"The loudest voice* opposed to
defense have been the Irresponsi
ble ones It Is easy to talk and tor
*ay how things ought to be dono
when you do not have to do them
"I have notshad soldiers enough
to even patrol the Mexican bor
der, ner enough to do the prasl
dent's duty under certain condi
tions."
CABLE LINE HALTED
fit reel car service on the Madison
cable line, which was maintained
during the early part of the morn
ing. waa halted hy the anow at II
o'clock.
Snow piling up ahead of the cars
made it Ire possible for the cables
to move tbem oa tb« ateep bills
The Seattle Star
THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS
VOLUME 14. SEATTLE. WASH . WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 2. 1916.
A Tancab Owl af Commlaalon at tacona Ava. and Marlon at. Th« Chauffaur la Warrladiy Caatlng About for lomi Maana of Get
ting Hl* MicMna Out af tha Drtfta.
IN DANGER;
WARN OF
SLIDES
Faar that tha two feet of
anow on tha reofs of many
poorly constructed bulldlnga
will cau«« aoma disastrous cot
lapaaa. Hsalth Officer Mcßrids
ordered all ataff phyaiciana of
the city hoapltal to be ready
for emergency catta Wsdnsa
I). E. Hooker, aaalatant superln
tendent of bulldlnga. laaued a warn
ing, urging building owner* to get
the anow off of their roof* aa
quickly aa poaslble.
"Home roof* are ready to cave In
any minute." he aaid "The prea
sure, with 19 Inche* of anow. «ai
aa high aa ''.4 pounda to the square
foot. There In more anow than
that now. and 40 jmunds la the
safety limit on the beat buildings
In town."
Police were ordered to rope off
the space around the Tlvoll theatre
building at First are and Madlaon
at., during the middle of the morn
Ing for fear or a slide from the
ateep roof
Councilman liana, of the finance
committee, made hurried arrange
ment* for the city treasurer to pay
91,904 in for cleaning off the
■treeta. due to the emergency alt
nation.
The ordinance appropriating the
money will he passed later.
Health Commissioner McHride
announced that garbage collections
would be practically Impossible un
der present conditions
He urged that every one burn as
much garbage a* po*slble fur the
neit few daya.
WOMAN JUROR WALKS 8 MILES
Finds Fellow Citizens Stsyed Home
Mra. George A. Radford, of
M4l 19th avs. N E , walked in
alght miles thru the enow from
Ravenna Wednesday morning
to the court houae, where aha
la aervlng on the Jury thla
month, only to find that two
man on the aame Jury who live
cloaer to tha city had failed to
come, and that she might as
well have remained at home.
Judge Mackintosh struck tha caae
on trial from hi* calendar, to be re
set at a later date. It I* that of
Mary Nelaon against the city for
$22,»f>0 damage* to her property,
due to a slide at 10th ave H. ami
Judklns *t
Mr* Itadford, after her long Jour
ney Into town, however, was not
permitted to leave the court house,
but. was Immediately drawn aa a
Juror In another case In Judge Tall
man's court, where Fred Chandler
Is on trial, charged with robbery.
.Mabel Wolllard, another Juror, of
io mm
DAMAGE
DONE BY
ROODS
HfIKNA, Ark. Fab. 2.—Tan
flatllan cfoliara' property dam
aga an« a death toll of alght
la tha aatimatad raauit of
flood* awaaplng four Arfcanaaa
countlaa and alevan parlahaa
In Northern Loula'ana.
Theee tarritorlaa are burled he
neath all to 15 feet of water, while
freeilng weather Inflleta terrible
aufferlng on many homelea* per
aona, and swiff currenta and wlnd«
Imperil reacuara.
The rreat of the flood la near
I.lttla Rock
l.*veea have burnt, flooding vll
lager Throe hundred workera »re
atrtvlng to aave lairoula. but the
levee there la threatening to go out
at any moment
Still another hr«-«k In Imminent
Carnithararllle, while there are
a n urn bar of weak spot* lu Uia
ItvMi at Vlckahurg
PRESIDENT'S OAR
60ES INTO CROWD
fIRINNKt-U l« . Feb. 2. Sl*
children were <lranKe<l from be
neath the wheel* of I'rettldent
VVlUon's special here when It
backed Into a crowd of 30,000 per
ton*. No warning w»* given. Thl*
occurred while Wilton waa apeak
In* from the rear platform Tue«
day afternoon.
f.22* 40th ave R W . walked niont
of the «uv from her home
Ada M Munaell, of 142* Kwlng at..
Fremont, walked In all the way. a»
did H. O. Arnold. *017 Hecond ave.
E. Clreen Ijike, and Thomaa W.
I'roctor, 9350 67th ave. H. All are
serving on the Chandler Jury.
Ilecau** of the absence of one
woman from Judge Ronald's court,
the county condemnation caan
again*! Woodlnvllle roaldenta. waa
continued until I 30 p. m
Moat of the other nmrta" ma
chinery waa thrown out of Kenr by
the tno»' Htorm.
LOOK OUT! HYDRANTS
Hundred* of fire hydrant* have
hern thoughtlessly covered hy peo
pie cleaning *no» off the walk*,
and order* were ls*ued to police
officer* Wednesday to warn prop
erty owner* and occupant*, to un
cover them.
m SNOWBOUND; SCHOOLS
r po»tth
SUSPEND; TRAFFIC PARALYZE
Snow will have to be cleaned off walks. The city ordinance regulating public places, No. 16081,
section 92, says:
"It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any accumulation of snow or ice upon any planked
or paved sidewalk in front of any premises owned or occupied by him."
The penalty is a fine not to exceed $100, or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or both.
Chief Lang ordered police officers Wednesday to use their influence to get the city cleaned up as
soon as possible.
Dangerous places will be ordered cleaned up on threat of prosecutions.
Arrests will not be made without warrants.
Seattle and the entire Northwest as far south as the Cali
fornia-Oregon border are snowbound Wednesday.
Traffic, both railroad and street car, is completely block
aded
Nearly two feet of snow have fallen in Seattle
*ince the storm began Tuesday, according to weather reports,
and still continues to fall, with no end yet in sight.
Hope of breaking the grip of the snow storm was
abandoned by the S. E. Co. Wednesday. It was announced
at 1 p. m. that Seattle would have to walk until the weather
changes.
Thousands of downtown store and offi e workers are
making hotel reservations. A good share of tl ~n are not
going to try to get home.
I-'very street i ar line in the city was tied up early Wednes
day morning except Yesler and James cables I.ater, tracks
were cleared sufficiently for cars t>> run on some of the eloser
in lines but lines to Ballard, West Seattle, (irecti I.ake,
(ienrgetown, and other outlying districts art- still practically
paralyzed.
Thousands of residents "hiked" to work Wednesday
morning. All Seattle was late to work.
Not a wheel is moving on the railroads. Every trans
continental train has been securely locked in the grip of the
blizzard since Tuesday evening.
Many Schools Closed; Snow Too Deep
Assistant Superintendent Leonard announced Wednesday
nr»on that there would he no classes in any of the public
schools Thursday.
Whether the schools hold classes Wednesday was left to
the principals by Supt. Frank B. Cooper.
"If the teachers and pupils arc able to get to class rooms,"
he said, "the work will go on. li not, principals may dismiss
classes for the day. Many teachers live considerable dis
tance from their schools and on account of no street cars may
be unable to get to their work."
Less than one-third of the total enrollment of the public
schools were able to get thru the snow to attend classes
At Lincoln high only 350 pupils of an enrollment of
1,500 were on hand. Ten faculty members were unable to
reach the building. Classes were disbanded.
Only about 500 students got to Broadway high, but
classes were started It was announced that they would
close down if more students were not on hand by the tirddlc
of the morning.
Teachers walked miles thru the foot and a half of snow,
in many cases, to get to work. Others had to charter autos
The Traction Co. has had several hundred men at work,
in detachments of 20 and 25, shoveling snow since Tuesday
evening in a vain effort to keep tracks clear.
Transcontinental trains arc delayed 24 hours and more,
ONE CENT
\TI6HT
JNedihonl
Seattle, Renton & Southern Interurban Car*, Stalled on fourth Awe.
The Crew Is Shown at the Side of the Car, Working With Shovels.
with little likelihood of turning a wheel for several hours after
the storm abates.
Kurlington train No. 14, from St. I.oui*. due in Seattle
at 8:30 a. m. Tuesday on the Northern Pacific, is marooned
at Martin, at the very summit of the Cascades.
Word was received at the local dispatchers' office
Wednesday morning that all passengers were being cared for
and that enough food was in the diners to feed all on board
for two or three days.
Rotaries Try to Get to Stalled Trains
"It if hard to tell when we will be able to move our
train*-," '•aid .111 official. "We can't get to the trains to shovel
them out. All our rotaries and plows are in service and big;
crews of men, armed with shovels, have been sent out from
every section point."
Three Northern Pacific trains arc stalled at Cle F.lum,
two inure at Kllensburg, and one at Lester.
I lie Milwaukee and Great Northern are also tied up.
Milwaukee train No. 1/, due here at X:3O a. m., has been
marked up indefinitely late. It was fir-t delayed in Dakota
and Montana and is now laid up in the Cascades.
One Great Northern train is tied up at Ravensdale, un
able to move a wheel.
Others are stalled at Tonasket and at other points in the
mountains.
Arrangements arc being made Wednesday with the
Northern Pacific, whereby trains on other roads may be de
toured over the N. P. tracks as soon as they can be cleared.
Taxis and Jitneys Do Big Business
I lie Seattle I axicab company and a few daring jitney
drivers did a big business Tuesday niplit and Wednesday.
The taxicab company had evcrv machine busy.
Jitney drivers and other autoists let the Seattle Klectric'n
snowsweepers clean off the car tracks, then utilized the cleared
space as a roadway for their cars. Several cars were reported
abandoned in snowdrifts. They had gotten in beyond their
depth and couldn't be budged.
An Hast Union car left the tracks and slid into the curb
at I ast I'nion and J7th ave., shortly before midnight. No
one was hurt.
Hotel* enjoyed a heavy business Tuesday night, many
people preferring to remain downtown away front their fam
ilies rather than take chances on walking in th's morning.
I'elenraphic report.- from point- in the Cascade foothills
declare the greatest storm in sears has been raging in the
OTHER STORM NEWS ON PAGE FIVE
(Continued on page 2)
