.fV
VOLUME XXXVII.
NEW PRIMARY LAW
UPHELD BY COURT
STATE LAW NOT IN VIOLATION
OF STATE OR FEDERAL
CONSTITUTION.
SECRETARY OF STATE UPHELD
IN REFUSING TO ACCEPT
FILINGS.
The State Supreme Court last Friday
upheld the Minnesota presidential pri
mary law under which the first election
of the kind in the United States this year
will be held March 14th, to choose dele
gates to national political conventions.
The decision is rendered as the result
of a case which arose when W. N. Carroll
of Minneapolis, a supporter of Elihu
Hoot for president, tried to file with the
secretary of state as a candidate for
delegate and also presidential elector,
without stating his perference for presi
dent and vice president. The secretary
of state refused to accept the filing as
delegate on the ground that a delegate
could not make a choice until after all
the names for presidential candidates
had been filed and as. elector on the
ground that his affidavit did not conform
to the statutes, as Mr. Carroll refused
to pledge that he would support the
candidate chosen by the people of
Minnesota at the coming primary, and
the Supreme Court has now upheld the
official's action.
In filing for presidential elector, the
candidate does not have to state any
preference, the court says. "The Fed
eral Constitution gives such electors
free choice as to whom they shall support
for president and vice president, but
tradition demands that they cast their
ballot for their party candidates."
The time for filing for president and
vice president expires next Thursday and
the time for filing as candidates for dele
gates to national conventions ends Feb.
12th. Thus far only the name of Presi
dent Wilson has been filed, but no doubt
the names of other candidates will be
filed before the time limit has expired.
No attempt has yet been made to cir
culate petitions for the nomination of
candidates for vice president.
The attorney for Mr. Carroll, in his
plea to the court, contended that the
presidential primary law tends to keep
professional politicians in office and to
discourage men of good business sense
and experience from running for office.
He contended further that the law was
passed in violation of the State and
Federal Constitutions, both of which
guarantee the right of any citizen to
keep to himself the knowledge of what
his intentions are in the matter of voting
for candidates for office.
The assistant attorney general ap
peared on behalf of the State and con
tended that this law had no application
to general elections, but merely to the
nomination of candidates for office,
therefore could not be construed as
violating the provisions of either the
State or Federal Constitutions.
The cace attracted a great deal of at
tention not only among the legal fra
ternity but also among those with
political aspirations, as it was the first
time that the new law was under fire.
INCOME TAX CONSTITUTIONAL.
The Supreme Court of the United
States, in a decision handed down last
week upheld the constitutionality of the
income tax.
Chief Justice White gave the court's
decision, and all objections to the con
stitutionality of the new amendment to
the constitution and the law which puts
the amendment in force were upheld in
whole and in every part. The law came
before the court the case of Frank B.
Brushaber, a stockholder of the Union
Pacific railroad, who sought to enjoin the
company from paying the tax on the
ground that it was unconstitutional.
The plaintiff contended that the law was
unconstitutional because labor, agricul
tural and horticultural organizations and
such were exempt. The Chief Justice
held this contention was answered by
past decisions under the corporation
tax law. He said the point was only
another illustration of an erroneous as
sumption that the tax was imposed under
a new power conferred upon the govern
ment by the sixteenth amendment,
whereas it was a power recognized to
exist from the beginning of the govern
ment, and thus decisions defining the
taxing power previously rendered were
applicable to it.
Five suits were brought to test the
constitutionality of the law soon after
the law become effective and all of them
found their way to the Supreme Court
of the United States. The decision
ends a fifty year fight against some from
of an income tax law. The tax was first
imposed during the Civil war and the
years immediately following. During
Cleveland's administration an income
tax was imposed and it was fought bitter
ly in the courts and finally declared un
constitutional by the highest court in the
land.
An agitation for an amendment to
the constitution then .began but nothing
came of it until President Taft recom
mended the enactment of an excise tax
on corporations to be measured by their
income and an amendment to the con
stitution to permit the levying of an in
come tax on all incomes. The amend
ment was submitted to the states by the
congress and was proclaimed a part of
the constitution on March 1,1913.
PREDICTED CRASH
HITS FLOUR HILL
SLEEPY EYE CONCERN APPLIES
TO HENNEPINCOURT FOR
RECEIVER.
MILLS AT ALBERT LEA AND
SIOUX FALLS S. D. ARE
ALSO CLOSED.
The rumor of the closing of the Sleepy
Eye mill and the probable bankruptcy of
the company operating it were confirmed
last week when a receiver was ap
pointed by the Hennepin county district
court. The E. A. Thayer Mortgage
company was named as receiver at the
instance of the creditors of the milling
company and has taken charge of all the
property of the milling company which
not only includes the mill and elevator
at Sleepy Eye, but also a number of
other mills in Minnesota and South Da
kota.
Thejmills operated by the concern
under the name of the United Flour
Milling Company, at Albert Lea, Minn.,
and Sioux Falls, S. D. have also shut
down, awaiting adjustments to be made
by the receiver.
The reason for the failure of the
milling company was the fact that
enormous quantities of flour had been
sold to European markets just before
the rise in the price of wheat. When the
time came to fill these contracts it was
found that the company had suffered
great losses and stood to suffer more un
less the contracts werecancelled or other
arrangements made.
Although the permanent closing of the
mill at Sleepy Eye is not among the
probabilities, it is anticipated that the
mill will not be opened for at least
several months and may not open until
late in the summer.
Sleepy Eye business men who were in
New Ulm Monday state that there is a
very strong feeftng against A. C. Von
Hagen, president of the concern, and
formerly a resident of Sleepy Eye. He
removed to Minneapolis several years
ago and is said to be well off financially
despite the failure of the mill. At the
time of the forced closing of the mill he
was on a business trip to Kansas City.
DEMOCRATS ELECT DELEGATES
TO STATE CONFERENCE.
At a county conference of the Demo
crats of Brown county, held at Sleepy
Eye last Friday afternoon, a full dele
gation was chosen to attend the state
conference which is called for Thursday
at St. Paul. On account of the limited
time of the attending delegates who
came by train nothing else came before
the conference.
Those attending from New Ulm were
Jos. Smasal, Carl I. Stone, Fred Christen
sen, P. J. Eichten, Ed. J. Juni, J. A.
Ochs, Wd. Eibner, Otto Penkert, Frank
Niemann, A. Henle, Carl P. Manderfeld,
Christ. Filzen, Henry J. Berg, Fred
Pfaender, Ben I. Vetter, John Henle and
Alois Gulden.
The meeting was presided over by W.
R. Hodges of Sleepy Eye and Wd. Eibner
of New Ulm acted as secretary. The
following is the list of delegates for the
state conference: Joseph Smasal, Fred
Christiansen, Albert Pfaender, Theo.
Manderfeld, Anton S. Born, Christ
Filzen, Jr., Edwin H. Juni, Alex. Ran
weiler, Alois Gulden, Fred Pfaender, New
Ulm W. R. Hodges, William Brust,
George, Glotzbach, W. J. Schimtt, E. P.
Schmitz, J. B. Wiesner, Sleepy Eye P.
C. Hansom, Richard J. Mueller, Alois
Breu, Springfield Jos. J. Sperl, Cotton
wood J. P. Schmitz, Home Neb J.
Ouren, Hanska Ed. P. Bertrand, Cobden.
POSED AS AGENT
LANDED IN JAIL
MANKATO YOUNGSTER OB
TAINED GOODS UNDER FALSE
PRETENSES.
RELATIVE WIRES MONEY TO
PAY FINE AND REIMBURSE
MERCHANT.
Donald Bennett, a young man, hardly
twenty-one years of age, was arrested
last Saturday at St. Peter upon a warrant
issued by the authorities of Brown
county, charging him with obtaining
goods under false pretenses. He was
brought to this city and boarded at the
county jail over Sunday.
Young Bennett, it seems, came to this
city about a week ago and represented
himself to be an agent for the Goodyear
Rubber Company of Minneapolis. He
visited several of the local garages
ostensibly in quest of business for his
concern, but evidently found no cus
tomers until he reached the store of Roy
Berg on South Minnesota street. There
he made several "trade" propositions and
obtained several inner tubes for auto
mobiles, a spot light and other articles
in return for which his firm was to send
the goods Berg had picked out. When
several days passed without the arrival
of the goods, Mr. Berg communicated
with the house in Minneapolis, who
promptly informed him that they had no
such representative in this section of the
state. Shortly afterward a warrant
was issued, charging Bennett with ob
taining goods under false pretenses, the
value of which had been placed at about
$20.00.
The sheriff's office at first tried to
locate Bennett at Mankato, his former
home, but he had removed to St. Peter
several months ago, where he was finally
located. Some of the goods were located
at a St. Peter garage, while the remaitHfers
had already changed hands a second
I
Harvey Grimmer, executive clerk
under Governor Johnson, was in the city
Saturday and called upon his numerous
friends. Mr. Grimmer states that he is
out of the political game for good.
4
^5Ko^
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, FEB. 2,1
time and could not be recovered. I transportation facilities will be an easy
Bennett was brought before Justice arrange, compared with some of
Henningsen Monday afternoon and upon districts in the more sparsely settled
pleading guilty to the charge made, was sections of the state, where children are
fined $10 and costs. Upon recommen-1 transported as far as eight miles to the
dation of Attorney Albert Pfaender, who centrally located consolidated school,
appeared for the state, the sentence was
suspended, upon condition that the de
fendant pay the costs, reimburse Mr.
Berg and leave the city for good.
OUR MEN OF AFFAIRS
NH30LLET SCHOOLS
WILL CONSOLIDATE
MODERN HIGH SCHOOL BUILD
ING IN NICOLLET VILLAGE
PROPOSED.
FOUR RURAL SCHOOL DISTRICTS
INVITED TO JOIN CON-
SOLIDATION.
Residents of Nicollet village are
agitating the consolidation of the village
school district with four of the rural
districts adjoining the village and the
uliimate erection of a high school build
ing which they propose to erect in
Nicollet at a cost of about $35,000.
At a largely attended meeting held at
the Nicollet opera house last week the
question was thoroughly discussed and
but little opposition to the plan de
veloped. Prof. G. M. Cesander of the
state department of public instruction,
had been invited and was present, giving
his audience a thorough insight into the
workings of the two hundred or more
consolidated districts in the state. He
pointed out the benefits to be derived by
such a move in that the students of both
the village and the rural districts would
receive the benefit of high school in
struction, which is now possible only in
a limited way in the smaller towns and
not at all in the country. In addition
to the regular high school course, both
manual training and domestic science
could be taken up. The teacher in the
country school, it was pointed out, must
take up a variety of subjects and as a
consequence the thoroughness possible
in the high schools, where trained spe
cialists are employed, is out of the ques
tion.
The four rural districts adjoining
Nicollet will hold meetings within a few
days and vote on the proposition. Prac
tically all of the residents of these four
districts live within.a radius of three,
miles irom the village and the matter of
J. A. OCHS, Prominent Merchant.
MILEAGE MAY BE REDUCED TO
TWO-CENT BASIS.
Railways operating in Minnesota may
arrange for a mileage book on a two-cent
a mile basis as a result of the numerous
complaints which are being registered at
the head offices of the different com
panies and elsewhere in the state. The
price of mileage was recently raised to
vict
pnnwtnr
cue since
ofic.ftriizA'nay
2 1-4 cents per mile and the sale of inter
state mileage books abandoned entirely.
According to a statement issued by a
St. Paul railroad official the issuance of
such a mileage book is now being con
sidered and the sugestion probably will
be taken up by the Western Passenger
Association for investigation and report.
It is stated that the leading jobbers of
the Twin Cities are making an organized
effort for the restoration of the two-cent
rate for their traveling salesmen, who
are among the best customers of the rail
way companies.
The only thing which seems to stand
in the way of the two-cent a mile book,
is the possibility of its abuse in its use for
interstate travel as one book could be
used on an interstate trip by paying
the fare to the state line and then for the
remainder of the trip the mileage could
be taken from a book purchased in the
adjoining state.
EXPLAINS CUTTING
OF EXPRESS RATES
SECRETARY OF WAREHOUSE
COMMISSION SAYS NEW ULM
HAS NO KICK.
LOCAL AGENTS STILL CHARGING
CUSTOMERS ON BASIS OF
OLD RATES.
Although the state railroad and ware
house commission has ordered a re
duction in express rates between points
in Southern Minnesota and New Ulm
no orders have been received in this city
authorizing the agents to make the
changes, according to Agent Brust of the
American Express company. The old
rates are still in effect and any reductions
to which the shipper may be entitled will
have to go through the red tape of the
head offices in St. Paul. Mr. Brust
states that he is aware of the fact that
changes have been made, but has no
authority to make them.
The article in the Review of a few
weeks ago, calling attention to the fact
that changes had been ordered by the
state commission, brought forth a letter
from the secretary of the commission
to the editor of the Review, in which that
official states that the newspapers of the
Twin Cities did not publish the correct
version of the reduction at the time it
was made but placed their own con
struction upon the matter, which, ac
cording to the secretary, has led to the
confusion of the general public. The
Review article, as was stated at the time,
was based upon the articles printed in
the Twin City papers.
The secretary's letter reads that "as
far as the rates from Minneapolis and St.
Paul are concerned, New Ulm is not
interested, for the simple reason that
they have had up to the present time the
same rates, namely first-class, 90 cents
per 100 pounds, but it was only where
there was a different rate to points in
Minnesota from Minneapolis and St.
Paul that the commission required the
express companies to make the rates
from these two cities the same, the
lowest basis of rates to govern.
"Where it will affect New Ulm is in the
reduction in the special commodities,
consisting of bread, butter, eggs, fresh
and green fruits, berries, green vegetables,
meats (fresh and cured), veal, sausage,
poultry (live or dressed), and fish. Up
to the present time your people have
been paying on the basis of 75 per cent of
the first-class rates now the Commission
have reduced the same to 60 per cent
of the first-class rates. To illustrate,
where you have been shipping any of
the above commodities between New
Ulm and Jackson, Blue Earth, Granite
Falls, Faribault, Redwood Falls, Willmar,
St. Cloud, St. Paul and Minneapolis, you
have been paying on the basis of 68
cents per 100 pounds. The new rate
will be on the basis of 53 cents per 100
pounds. Again, between New Ulm and
Pipestone you have been paying 87
cents per 100 pounds the new rate will
be 68 cents per 100 pounds or again,
between New Ulm and Luverne you have
been paying $1.05 per 100 pounds, the
new rate will be 83 cents per 100 pounds.
"The above will give you an illu
stration which applies between New
Ulm and all stations in Minnesota on
these commodities. Again, please be
advised that the zone and block system
has not been abolished by the Com
mission but is adopted by most of the
states in the Union so as to harmonize
with the interstate rates."
The Comfrey creamery, recently de
stroyed by fire, will be rebuilt by the
creamery company and it is expected
that the new structure will be of brick."
NUMBER 5
HIGH STEELPRICES
HALT STAND PLANS
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY WILL
NOT BUILD GRAND STAND
THIS YEAR.
FAIR DATES TO FOLLOW STATE
FAIR. INCREASED SPACE AT
GROUNDS URGED.
There will be no attempt made to
build a grandstand at the Fair Grounds
this year on account of the high price
of steel. Steel is going up right along and
is now 25 percent higher than it was at
the time the World War started.
The decision to postpone the building
of the Grand Stand this year was reached
at a meeting of the Board of Directors of
the Brown County Agricultural Society
held at the Commercial Club rooms Fri
day evening.
The meeting was held for the purpose
of perfecting an organization for the com
ing year. The old officers were re-elected
as follows: Pres. Ferdinand Crone Vice
Pres., Jacob Klossner, Jr. Secy. Wm. E.
Engelbert Treas. F. H. Benhke. Pres.
Crone has since reappointed the Superin
tendents of the various divisions that
served last year and to them has been
intrusted the work of revising the prem
ium list. Matters pertaining to the
Fair to be held this year occupied the
attention of the Board for the greater
share of the evening.
It was decided to hold this year's Fair
after the State Fair. The exact date will
depend somewhat upon the time other
County Associations hold theirs, but it
is the intention to hold the Brown County
Fair the week following the State Fair if
such arrangements can be made. If
enoughentries can be secured there will be
a lumber wagon race as one of the fea
tures of this year's fair. There will be
three purses, $25.00, $15.00 and $10.00.
This race will require speed, not only
among the horses driven but among then
drivers as well. The wagons for the race
will be on the track and in them will be
placed the harnesses and other necessary
equipment to hitch up and get away. At
a given signal the horses and drivers will
be admitted to the track and they will
hitch up as rapidly as possible and start off
at a breakneck speed as soon as they
are hitched up. The one who comes in
under the wire first wins the race and
first money. This race ought to prove
both interesting and exciting and there
seems no reason apparent why there
should not be enough entries.
The exhibit building on the grounds
has proven inadequate for the many
exhibits that are brought every year.
As a result the exhibits have not been
shown off to the best advantage. Es
pecially is this true of the ladies' handi
work to which twice the space ought
to be alloted. Under the circumstances
a new exhibit building should be con
sidered. This will be done at the next
meeting of the Board, according to
Secretary Wm. E. Engelbert. There
are at present only 117 stockholders in
the Fair Association with a capital
stock of approximately $4500.00. The
property of the Association is worth in
the neighborhood of $20,000.00. There
is no reason why $2,000.00 additional
stock could not be disposed of. This
amount would be more than ample to
provide an additional exhibit building.
At least an effort should be made to
this end.
The meeting held Friday evening was
well attended and all present seemed
to be imbued with the idea that this
year's Fair should not only equal but
should eclipse any Fair of the Association
heretofore held.
FIREPROOF STRUCTURE TO RE
PLACE LAMBERTON ELEVA
TOR.
The directors of the Lamberton
Farmers' Elevator company have prac
tically decided to replace the elevator
recently burned to the ground with a
modern and fireproof structure of still
greater storage capacity.
The grain losses through the fire also
have been adhusted and the farmers who
had grain stored in the elevator will be
paid the market price prevailing on the
day of the fire upon presentation of the
storage receipts.
As it will take several months before
the new elevator can be erected, a
temporary flour warehouse will at once
be erected, in order to continue the IS
business of the company.
4
I-!
$ A
i\
1~3|
3
