THE BARKE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX-NO. 273.
BARRK, VK11MOXT. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY
1910.,
PRICE, ONE CENT.
WILL RELEASE
PASSENGERS
ON THE APPAM
rious venue) mink l.v the Germans then
were placed aboard the Appam.
"When tint race for Hampton Rol
started a member of tlie prize crew wan
Htatioued at the wireless for the. purpose
of receiving all message hut to send
none. Itv this method the whereabout
of the British cruisers patrolling the reg
ular ocean lane were always known to
Lieutenant Berne, who steered far out or
reach of them.
"The crew and passengers of the cap
tured vessel were civen daily exercise
but onlv in small number at a time
Formalities Incident tO Such h'1"" very easy for the few tier-
. vi - mans to control several nuimieu
Action Taken Up To-day tivM-
I lie erew and passengers, according 10
Foster, had no complaint to make over
their treatment.
So That People May Leave
the Former British Steam
ship Now at Old Point
Comfort
STATE DEPARTMENT
CONSIDERS CASE
Status of British Liner Brought in By
German Crew Is Difficult Problem
Passengers To Be Freed.
Washington. D. C. Feb. 2. Secretary
of Stnte Musing said early to-day that
the state department had nto yet reached
a decision as to its attitude toward the
British liner Appani which was brought
into Hampton Roads by a German crew
vesterdaj'. The formalities surrounding
the release of tho passengers and other
non-combatants on the ship will be tak
en up to-day. Any prisoners of war will
be released, because the law permits no
StenOUS Raider IS Told hoMi" of war Prisoners in a neutral
cuuiurv.
The Inited States, then, finally, will
have to deal with the German erew un
der Lieutenant Berge, and if they are
accounted in the naval service of Ger
many as were tlie erews or tne rrmz
Eitel Friedrich and the Kronproinz Wil
helm, already interned at the Norfolk
yard, they too will be interned unless
their ship goes to sea to run the cordon
of liritish cruisers outside.
As to the dispositon of the Appam her
self, if she is held to be an auxiliary
cruiseY, her commander will have the op-
STATE DEPARTMENT
HAS BIG QUESTION
It Is to Determine Whether
the ADPam Is a Prize of
War for the Germans
Secretary Lansinor Has
Reached No DecisionA
My
About
Old Toint Comfort, Va., Feb. 2. Prince
Von Hatzfeldt, the personal representa
tive of Count Von Bernstorff, the Ger
man ambassador to the United States,
arrived here to-day to confer with Lieu
tenant Berge, the commander of the prize
!air raid may
MEAN ATTACK
ON SALONIKI
Teutonic Airships Dropped
Inflammable Bombs on the
City Now Held by the Al
' lies, Killing and Wounding
Many People
COMBINED LAND
ATTACK EXPECTED
Despatches from the Bal
kans Say the Germans,
Bulgarians, and 150,000
Turks Are Preparing for a
Great Offensive Movement
erew which yesterday brought the Brit-
ihIi nt earner An nam into this nort flvin?
a German man-of-war flag and others tion of putting to sea after a certain
and report to the German embassy,
' "I am certain," said Prince Von Hatz
.feldt. "that under tho treaty of the
''United States with Prussia that the Ap
pam will be declared a war prize and
turned over to the German prize crew.
The passengers undoubtedly will be lib
erated shortly.
The Appam continued to ride an an
chor a quarter of a mile off Old Point
Comfort to-day and no visitors were per
in it ted to board her. The Appam
brought word of a mysterious German
raider of commerce
From all reports, the raider is a con
verted, German merchantman with a false
canvas forecastle concealing a battery of
guns of fairlv large calibre. On Jan. 17
she engaged in battle an armed Austra-
lian trader, the Clan MacTavish, which
' she sank after an exciting combat, with
a loss of 15 men killed on the-Clan Me-
Tavish. The Appam, which waB 10 miles
away at the time in charge of a prize
crew, steamed hurriedly back to the
scene and rescued four members of the
crew of the sinking Clan McTavish
struggling in the wateC
Later, under orders from the comman
der of the raider, Lieutenant Berge head
ed his prize for an American port and
parted company with the Moewe.
time to make repairs and take provis
ions. If she is declared a prize the sit
uation becomes more complicated, and in
that event it is admitted that the United
States will have to deal with probably
the most novel question concerning its
neutrality that has arisen during the
war.
It was pointed out at the state depart
ment-that there is much confusion in the
treaties and provisions of international
law on the subject of prizes; the right
to convert captured vessels into auxiliary
warships and the right of reclamation by
the original owners, etc
BRITISH ARE STARTLED
Over the Appearance of the Liner Appam
at Hampton Roads.
London, Feb. 2. To say that the reap
pearance of the British steamer Appam
caused a tremendous sensation in Eng
land is putting it mildly.
SMALL STRIKE IN BURLINGTON.
IS Electrical Workers Quit When Their
Demands Were Refused.
Burlington, Feb.' 2. About 15 of the
On .Ian. 10 'the Moewe cnnr.nred and employes of the Burlington Light & Pow
sank the British ateamahin Karrint-ford . " company, who are members or tle re
carrying 500 tons of copper ore. Later pent'y organized electrical workers' un
the same day she captured the British ion ,eft tlleir work yesterday morning
steamship Corbridge, with a cargo of '"-u uut, v n - men u .-maima j.
fi.OOfl tons of onnl Tim Moewe Hi.) not I new scam oi wages were reiuseti oy
sink the vessel, but sent a crew aboard t,,e fmPa"y- 0t,Iv three of t,,e nwn
and held her as a collier. ' are engaged, at th electric light plant,
For three rlava the Moewe mm lr,e. Others being employe.! in inside Wir
tive and then the British admiralty lnK In nouses ana m "e "stamng 01
transport Dromonbv hove in sii?ht on electrical fixtures, so that their leaving
- I ...11 J. 1 C . ' A L 11
.Ian. 13. She offered no resistance and couirwnj
was captured and sunk. Before the day supplying of iigit to us patrons or se
was over, the raider had met and de- ""uov " ' -
Military operations along the various
fronts appear pretty much at a stand
still for the moment. Aerial movements
have constituted the chief activities of
late, except for German advances at im
portant sectors of the line in France.
batisfaction is expressed in German
newspapers over the latest Zeppelin at
tack on England, the military impor
tance of tho localities visited baing emphasized.
Indications of possible notable devel
opments in tie Balkans are contained in
to-day's despatches. One from Athens
declares that, according to information
in military quarters, the Germans and
Bulgarians, together with a force of
l.0,000 Turks, are likely to bugin an
attack on Saloniki the middle of this
month. ,
In Mesopotamia, the British are still
being prevented from attempting an ad
vance, owing to the prevalence of had
weather and floods.
FOUR JUDGMENTS
WERE AFFIRMED
13 SLAIN BY BOMBS
IN AIR ATTACK
ON SALONIKI
In Addition 50 Were Injured as Inflam
mable Missiles Were Hurled
From a Zeppelin This
Morning.
p Saloniki, Tuesday, via Paris, Wednes
day, Feb. Z. -Two Greek soldiers, five
refugees and seven workmen were killed
and 50 civilians were injured by in
flammable bombs' dropped from a Zep
pelin this morning.
54 WERE KILLED.
And Two Were Reversed By Vermont
Supreme Court State Cases of Wesley
North and Lucy Weston of Barre
Disposed of By Respondent!
Being Sentenced.
Two Rutland county cases were ar
gued in supreme court this morning and
in another case from the, same county,
Gustavus A. llaskms vs. V. S. Weaver,
negligence, Attorney Lawrence, counsel
for the plaintiff, asked that judgment be
allirmed without further hearing. His
remicet was taken under consideration
I lie cases heard to-day were Walter !.
Kenton, apt., as administrator of Maria
If. Hodges, deceased, vs. Eugene 11
lloddes' estate, Malina S. Hodges, ex
ecutrix, an appeal from probate commis
sioners and a companion case, Edward
W. Hodges, apt., vs. Eugene H. Hodges'
estate, .Mali ml S. Hodges, ex. In tlie
first case W. K. Fenton appeared for
himself and M. C Weblier was counsel
for the defendants in both cases. C. L,
Howe represented the plaintiff in the
latter case.
Yesterday afternoon opinions were giv
en lv tlie court as ioiiows: vaienoma
county Frances J. Giltillan, apt., vs. es
tate of William J. Giltillan, James Allen,
adin.; judgment for the plaintiff for $1.-
27.14 affirmed and petition for new trial
dismissed without cost; Taylor, justice.
franklin county tirst .National Hank
of Enoshurg Falls vs. E. E. liamforth;
udginent reversed and judgment for de
fendant to recover his costs; Powers.
justice. In the lower court the plaintiff
obtained damages of $1,47.1.70.
Rutland county Joseph Labate, adm.,
f estate of Ltiigi Petti, vs. Old English
Slate Co., negligence, judgment reversed
and new trial granted on terms that
ilamtiff pay defendant costs up to this
rial; Powers, justice. The plaintiff ob
tained a $4,000 verdict in county court.
Orleans county Herbert Dailev vs.
Swift A Co., judgment affirmed as result
of amended declaration without costs in
supreme court; Munson, justice.
lmlham countv II. S. .Stevens vs
E. E. Blood, judgment for plaintiff to re'
cover $4I.1.;jH affirmed; favlor, justice,
Washington county State vs. Wesley
North, adultery, judgment afhrmed
.state vs. Lucy Weston, motion granted
bv lower court to arrest judgment over
ruled and respondent sentenced to not
more than year and a naif in the house
ot correction.
Two cases which had been set for hear
ing at this term were assigned for hear
ing at the special Brattleboro term after
a request had been mode by Attorney
F. E. Barber that judgment be affirmed
because of the. failure of eounsel for
other side to continue tlie prosecution.
The eases in question were George Tudor
vs. A. iTosby Kennett and Herbert Mud
gett, and A. Crosby Kennett and Herbert
S. Mudgett vs. George and Ernest Tu
dor.
GERMANY SAYS
AN AGREEMENT
r IS POSSIBLE
A Semi-official Statement
from Berlin Declares That
New Instructions Have
Been Sent to Von Bern
storff on the Lusitania Affair
"REASONABLE HOPE
OF UNDERSTANDING
Statement Is Accompanied
by Asesrtion That It Was
Made Because of Alarm
ing English Reports About
the Nature of German
American Relations
stroyed the British steamship Author,
carrying 8,000 tons of general cargo, and
the admiralty transport Trader with
(1,000 tons of sugar.
No ship of the enemy was sighted on
the 14th, but on the 15th the British
steamer Ariadne crossed the raider's path
It is under
i stood that tlie action of the men at the
Burlington Light & Power company yes
terday will not affect the electrical work-
'ers at the city light department, the
telephone company or the other electric
plants in the city.
The men are reported to have demand-
and was sent to the bottom with her e1 an eight-hour day, instead of the pres
cargo of 5,000 tons of wheat.
Next day, the 18th, there appeared the
biggest prize of all, the liner Appam,
carrying H,000 tons ot general merchan
dise, including a large quantity of cocoa.
One or two shots were fired at the Ap
pam, but there was no real fight.
The MOcwe approached the liner flying
the British ensign and exchanged salutes
with her. When she was close enough
to cross the Appam' bow se ran up the
German flag and lowered the false fore
castle, disclosing her armament.
No one knows where the Moewe came
from except the prize crew aboard the
Appam, nor where she went after the
r'VL'." MEXICAN BAND
arrival of the Appam took place in the
vicinity of the Canary islands.
ent nine-hour day, with the same wage
scale that is in force on the nine-hour
basis. The Burlington Light & Power
company offered to let them work only-
eight hours, but jvished to pay them for
only eight hours, instead of nine hours
work, as at present. When the matter
was not adjusted, all of the union men in
the company s employ left their work
The union presented Iheir demands to
the company some time ago, and the men
have recently been working only eight
hours a day and receiving pay for that
amount of time, but were not satisfied
with the condition of affairs,
ATTACKS TRAIN
HOW THE APPAM WAS CAUGHT.
The Raider Appeared Like Tramp Steam
er But Had Masked Battery.
New port News, Ya., Feb. 2. Pilot Fos
ter, who brought the Appam into Hamp-
General Orenealas, Former Villa Lieuten
ant, Reported to Have Been
Killed.
F.I Paso. Feb. 1. A Mexican Central
train which left Juarez Sunday was at-
ton Roads, last night told the story of tacked yesterday at Laguna, north of
capture as it was related to him by Cap- Chihuahua City, presumably by bandits,
tain Harrison. This is Captain Harri- according to a report sent here by rail
son's storv of the Appum's capture as road employes at Chihuahua City.
Foster tohl it: I A number of foreigners were in the
It was a bright, clear day when we train when it left Juarer.
.eneral 1 nomas Orenealas, former
Villa commandant at Juarez, who fled to
In German Air Raid on England Last
Monday Night.
London. Ifeb. 2. Fifty-four persons
killed and 67 injured was the result of
the raid of German airships over Nor
folk, Suffolk, Derbyshire, Ieicestershire,
Staffordshire and Lincolnshire Monday
night, according to the oilicial report of
the British government. In all. 2'JO
bombs were dropped from aircraft, and
considerable material damage was done.
Berlin reports that all the airships
returned safely to their base in spite of;
the heavy fire directed upon them from
all points, none of them having been
hit.
Berlin asserts that at Liverpool, Bir
kenhead and Manchester and along the
Hnmber, docks, blast furnaces and fac
tories were attacked, heavy explosions
and serious fires resulting. On the II um
ber a battery was silenced. ,
WAS IDENTIFIED
BY ONE VICTIM
Harold Severy, $, of Boston Suspected
of Being Man Who Shot Four
People at Albany, N. Y.
Albany. N. Y., Feb. 2. Harold Severy,
2o years old, who says his home is in
Boston, arrested in Schenectady yester
day as the gunman who last Friday shot
four persons here, was positively identi
fied by John Mi-Cormaek, one of the vic
tims, as the man who attacked him.
Severy, the police said, would be ar
raigned in police court charged with as
sault in the first degree.
Severy was arrested by the Schenec
tady police yesterday afternoon after
the landlady of a boarding house where
he had a room reported that his actions
had aroused her suspicions that he was
the much sought gunman. In Severy s
trunk was found a 22 calibre target
rifle, equipped with a silencing device,
The rille also was enuipp with
heavy wire with w hich it could e fired.
Severy explained to the police that he
carried the gun 111 his coatsleeve and by
pressing upon the wire discharged the
rille. He also could reload the weapon
from his arm pit without removing it
from his sleeve. He told the police that
he had practiced with the rille on the
streets of Albany triday.
Severy, according to the local police,
purchased the rifle in Albany. When the
dealer refused to sell it to him he asked
if he could have it sent out of the state,
This the dealer agreed to do and Severy
paid for the gun and had it sent by mail
to Pittsfield, Mass. Then he wrote to
er Takata Maru and the American steam-j the postmaster there and had his mail
er Silver Shell, renorted in (Hilliision 200 1 forwarded to Watervliet, a few miles
miles southeast of Cane Race last 11UM. from here, e said he purchased the
were afloat at 4 o'clock this morning, "'ncer im tne iacrory mat manu-
according to a wireless message received Isrtures It.
at Cape Race from the Takata. I Severy when examined here refused to
A message from Cape Race to the ma-! M1 anything of his family, but said
rine and fisheries denartment aaid: "At that about five years ago he had been
4 a. m., received wireless that Takata 1 pleed in a sanatorium to be treated
BOTH SHIPS AFLOAT
AFTER COLLISION;
ONE DISABLED
Berlin, via wireless, Feb. 2. Tnstruc-
ions have been sent by the German gov
ernment to Ambassador Von Bernstorff
at Washington of such a nature as to
give reusuiiable hope for a positive un
derstanding concerning the Lusitania af
fair, it was announced semi-officially to
day. The Overseas news agency says the
announcement was made '"in connection
with alarming English reports about the
nature of German-American relations."
A TURK AMONG APPLICANTS
FREE RENT "
PETITIONS
Opera House Much Sought
as Forum for Various
Presentations
.
ADVENTIST FAFD
TO MOVF SUNCIL
DEATH OF SCHOOL JANITOR.
Isaac Clark Given of tbe Ayerg Street
Building Died This Morning.
Inline Clark Given passed away at his
home, 150 South Main street, this mor,ii
ing at 2 o'clock, death being due to hard
ening of the arteries w ith kidney compli
cations. Mr. Given had been engaged lor
the past three years as janitor at the,
Ayers street school. Last Thursday, he
suffered an uttack of illness nt the
schoolhouse and was removed to his
liunie. Thereafter his condition declined
steadily. He is survived by his wile,
who is a sister of Mrs. J. W. Jackboii;
two daughters, Mrs. Ralph Tucker of
New Paltz, N. Y., and, Mrs. Winifred
Vining, who lives at home, and one son,
Charles A. Given of Baldwinsville, Mass.
A second son, Herman E. Given, died of
typhoid fever in Chelsea, Mass., 15 years
ago.
Mr. Given was horn in St. Albans, Me.,
April 3, 1843. Thirty years ago he left
Maine and for 20 years or more there
after he was employed as a cabinet and
chairmaker in Baldwinsville and Chelsea.
For ten years he was in the employ of
the Holman Chair Co. of Chelsea and for
a period of equal length with the Smith-
ie company in jsa.awinsv.iie. mini 0vr the doorwt tImt fraTnM an n.
in ATilssuohifia.itta lift U'fla fnr munv vnnra 1. ... -
-j .. , . trance to tlie council chamber at city
a deacon in the Congregational church at ud1i , . ,., ... . , '
I, 1 1 ,, , . . . . ." a wag, or wags, unknown posted a
Baldwinsville, ami after his removal to ,,i..ur.i iu. :!,, i
Barre lie continued his fellowship in the J" , Tr. n t.: 7, k- u 1 V
... -4-1- i "ST ! irom Dante s "lnterno" which reads,
same denomination, associating himself ..11 i,r, i,.,i, . , ,
4, 4i .' . , , , ... 1 AH nope abandon, ye who enter here,
with the Congregational church here. Six T 4i, ..:i.. ... 4c,
years ago he came to tins city and with t, r izeJ t',le . wo, k
Mrs. Given had lived some time with , "4; ,-,. 11, ? t. ,
Mrs. Leroy Norris of South Main street. "T.'L .V LM?ko V
l.ad he lived until Feb. II, he and Mrs. " & - - - -
Given, who was Miss Ellen Enwrr, a , 4, . v ... . , ..... .. . .., . .
Alka.,- M u.r..l.l h.v. .Uiikj wim women
c
5
But Requcf of Medical and
Temperance Men Were
(Granted
native of St. Albans, Me., would have
resignation. But the legend printed on
-.1 1 ,1 ' - JTAil. IJ! ' V
14. j 4 , 4. .4 4, . .... the placard was the subiect ot consider
jc is expected mat, me remains win do ,.- . . -
. 4.. 1 . 1, ...mi- t... a"'e comment from persons passim?
taken to-morrow to Baldwinsville, Mass.,
icre the funeral and interment are to
take place Friday afternoon.
LONG A RESIDENT OF BARRE.
Mrs. Mary Kelman, Widow of Granite
Manufacturer, Died Last Night.
Mrs. Mary Kelman, widow of William'1 ttnd futilely through the frosted panel
through the, corridor to the city court,
wnere uerk t . b. i'kitt was doing his
best to put a sizeable grist of would-be
citizens through the lirst hopper of the
naturalization mill.
Others who. had business with the city
fathers were observed to scan tho in
scription closely and then glance furtive-
Japanese Steamer Takata Maru and the
American Steamer Silver Shell Struck
off Cape Race Last Night.
Halifax, Feb. 2. Tlie Japanese steam-
Maru reports engine room and stoke hold
flooded." It also reported that it had
been sending out numerous calls for as
sistance and the steamer Silver Shell
was standing by. The Silver Shell re
ports all well.
SERIOUSLLY HURT COASTING.
were captured. We were moving along
at a fair rate of speed when suddenly
in the distance I saw what appeared to
lie an ordinary tramp steamer. Grad
ually she came clot-er. We did not fear
her and continued ahead with no attempt
to escape, nor without making prepara
tions to combat her, as we certainly ex
pected no attack.
"Suddenly the tramp fired a shot from
a small gun across our bows. I imme
diately hove to. As I did so the fle
forecantle head made apparently of can
vas or. some other flimsy material fell
way and revealed a battery of huge
guns. It immediately was apparent that
reitanr was UMle. ao we xirrendered
without offering remittance.
Onoe aboard the Appam the Germs n
prize crew under the protection of the
battery of g'ins of the raider immediate
ly rlissrmel the Appsro crw and hxkeJ
tHem in various rabin. A similar pre
caution was taken with the prisoner.
"In the rnur of this work the 20
(.rrman captive, who were bemjj taken
t"i r.npUn l were dirt-t. Tit
Dr. C. Franklin Ross Injured at West
Hartford. .
Lebanon, N. H., Feb. 2. Dr. C. Frank-
American territory w hen Villa sent Gen- j lin Ross, a leading dentist here and son
for a nervous ailment. The police said
that because of Severy's mental con
dition he might never be brought to
trial, but be committed to a state hospital.
WOULD DOUBLE
GRANITE DUTY
eral Medina Vieta to execute him, was
reported to have been killed in the at-ta.k.
ONLY ONE SET SPEECH
of Station Agent Charles B. IIos. had
a narrow escape while sliding down a
steep hill in West Hartford. t, when
he was thrown from the sled rendering
him unconscious, brekine several small
New Hampshire Representative Intro
duced Bill in House Proposing
Further Protection For
the Industry.
Washington, Feb. 2. Representative
ason ot ew Hampshire yesterday in
li 4 4
jr-one in one oamy . injuring nis tro.iuc.-d a bill proposing a 50 per cent.
To Be Made By Pres. Wilson To-day, shoulder and cutting ln head and face, increase in the duty on finished granite.
That at Des Moines. . Doctor Boss was brought to his home products, and a much larger increase'
Chiemro I-Vh 1 lVaai.lont ii':i, 1 4-4 'here and on account of the sw-olled con- n the tariff upon unfinished granite.
eonfnue his speki,,e ., in the MMdle l. ,V, , i:., "0' !' V". . : !1 !?' 1
Wet. His chief addre-a to dav will be " 4 " . 'v . ::7 ' : " ' , V ' l"lr I" 01 Norway
at 1. Moine, this evening, but' en mute 1 T" , I"'. y . weden, who, accordmg to Mr. Wa
ne will make a numl-r of five-minute ' b,Bt"n- hv' b,wm" fcnorou. competitor.
lnM,iIM fmm thm r,u f..,m ,.t 1 1,. i to I'P on ,l- w'ith the American imiustrv.
pii.-s iroin tr platform of the tram. Iw iv.ll,. 11 It,. .,..i,, 1.1 ! -.. .l . i. . .
--. w,..... ."-. iiu-r Kir itii-iM 111, inw. ine nut t on
dentist wno was witn
Probate Coort Doings Today.
For Citizenship Papers at Session of the
Naturalization Court in Barre. '
Clerk F. S. Piatt of the United Stales
court, who has been busy this week with
prospective eitzens intent on finally se
curing the franchise, found time to come
to Barre Tuesday afternoon, to meet an
assembly of 23 prospective citizens ready
for tho preliminary steps. Court con
vened in the court room at city hall and
did not adjourn until after i o'clock last
night. Twelve candidates applied for
second papers, and there were 13 appli
cations for papers of the lirst class. Fin
land, Scotland, Spain, Great Britain,
Canada and Italy were represented in
the two groups, and for the first time
in a number of years, a native of- Turkey
made the first move in Barre to secure
his allegiance to the stars and stripes.
Nearly all of the applicants live in Barro
or Barre town.
Second papers were granted as fol
lows: William lieid Emslie, Scotland
George S. Sironi, Italv; I.uigi Muro,
aly; Roland Revora, Italy; Pekka Kak
kinen, I-inland; Andrew Ivorpele, rin
land; Giuseppi Cpra, Italy; Arthur H,
iiiiid, England; Thomas Nieol, Scotland
Raffalla Berisillo, Italv; Giovsnno Sco
pel, Italy; Vmcenzo lacuna, Italy,
.Applicants who received their first pa
pcrs are: Battista Jnccinelli, Italy; 1 01
o i uro, r inland; Aksef Hiuipola, r in
land; Gregorios M. Dragokis, Turkey
Enrico Romano, Italy; Kobarto C. to
lombo, Italv; Herman A. Jarvineni, Fin
land; Andrew J. Koistinen, Finland
lose Gundara, Spam; Jacob N. Hevisto,
inland; Philip ,1. Cnton, Canada; Rob
ert M. McDonald, Scotland; John Me
Andrew, Scotland.
The second day's session of U. S. court
held in the federal building' at Montpe
lier to-day found-equaly as many appli
cants for citizenship as on the first day
and as the result of the two days ses
sion of naturalization court nearly four
score citizens will be added to tho coun
try.
Yesterday afternoon five were granted
their final papers as follows: George E
Cassavant, Canada, Wehsterville; Ken
neth McKay, Scotland, Graniteville; En
rico Mancini, Italy, Webterville; Gaeta
no Sabatto, Italy, Websterville; Anton
Sincic, Montpelier, Austria.
Those admitted to citizenship to-day.
wen as follows: Jlemigio Soati, Italy
Montpelier; Giovanni, Rosso, Italy
Barre; Peter H. Hamel, Canada, Barre;
James Rothnie, Scotland. Barre; James
Grant Forrest. Scotland, Barre; Alexan
der Ross, Scotland. Barre; John Gellatly,
Scotland, Barre; (iiovanni Buttura, Italy,
Harre; Alexander II. Held, Scotland,
Barre; Arthur Castle, Canada, Barre;
Alexander Moir, Scotland, Barre; Gio
vanna Sassi, Italy, Barre; Carlo Bruset-
ti, Italy. Barre; Angelo Felice Tanetto
Italy, Hardwick; Antonio Labrana,
pain, Barre; ( liristian P. Jensen, Pen-
mark, Barre; Antonio Riva, Spain, Mont
pelier; Kemigio Gomez, Spain, Montpe-
ler; Antonio Bianchi, Italy. Barre;
Frank Alexander McPherson, Scotland,
Barre; Felice SUrrhesi. Italv, Barre;
Alexander Robertson, Scotland. Barre;
William Gordon Bennett Melville. Soot
land, Barre; James Alexander Webster,
Scotland, Barre; William Duff Gellatly,
Scotland, Barre; Harry Davidson. Scot
land. Barre; Attilio Stella, Italy, Barre;
Giliante Pacetti. Italy, Bare; James Elia
Pinardi, Italy, Barre.
This afternoon at 4 Clerk Tlatt will
await applications for the final papers
and will grant the first papers to applicants.
t'nited SUtea District Attorney V. A.
Bullard of Burlington is attending to
day's session of court.
ers of Allen street, where she had loiifj
resided. Mrs. Kelman had been in fail
ing health for many years. She is sur
vived by two brothers, James Mitchell of
Montpelier and Edmund Mitchell of
Salisbury, N. C, and ft half-brother, Wil
liam Sterling of Manitoba. Two neph
ews, Roliert Duncan and James M. Dun
can, reside in Barre.
Mr. Kelman was born Mary Mitchell
in Scotland in September, 1858, and was,
therefore, in her 58th year. With her
Kelman. remembered bv manv people in gIas9 that separates the congress of sev
this citv as one of the pioneers in the " from the corridor rabble, only to
development of the Barre granite indua- make quick shift to hasten on, as if tho
try, passed away at 9:30 o'clock last alchemy practiced inside was the very
vening at the home of Airs. W. J. Jtog- 'eei. ui meir worries.
00 11, uappeneu mat visitors last nigliD
were not very numerous. Elder H. E.
Miles, who was later to address the
councilman at length, was not so dis
posed to take the message literally as
were the feckless brethren who had gone
Deiore. lie passed 111. Likewise In
spector George Rand of the building de
partment, who never did set much of
a store by Dante, anyway. The matter
of the placard remained a mystery, but
the city hall janitor. G. A. Bemis. not
husband, she came to Barre around 32ini instructions afterward to remove the
years ago and had resided here since. Mr. quotation before it could keep any more
Kelman early engaged in the gramto visitors away trom tlie people s room.
manufacturing business and with his
partner erected the stoneshed on Black
well street now owned by the firm of
Leclair & McNulty, Mr. Kelman's death
occurred IS years ago. The deceased was
a member of the Church of the Good
Shepfwrd.
Funeral services will be held at the
home of Mrs. Rogers on Allen street on
Thursday afternoon at 1 :30 o'clock. Rev.
V. J. M. lieattie will be the officiating
clergyman and' interment will be made
in the family lot in Hope cemetery.
MANY FRIENDS ATTENDED
Funeral of Angelo Colombo and Marched
to Cemetery.
The Italian colony paid a marked trib
ute to one of their number yesterday,
when the funeral of Angelo Colombo,
who died Saturday afternoon after a
long illness, was held at his home, 16
Elder Miles' remarks before the council
broke the ice for a general discussion
on tiic ion of granting free use of
the 1 ae. Mr. Miles represented
hin t cider in the Seventh Day
Adv ..jck, who has come here to
jxirt. ji in a series of meetings. Dis
claiming any idea of proselyting, the
elder stated that he expected Catholics,
Irotestants, infidels, agnoi-tics, etc., alike
to patronize his meetings. A part ot
his address was concerned with life in
the lumber woods, and the remarks ter
minated with a request that he be given
the free use of the opera house for a
series of Sunday evening meetings.
Following closely on the reuuest of
Elder Miles came a communication from
the Ministers' union asking for the- free ,
uso of the theatre on the afternoon of
Sunday, Feb. 20, when, it was stated, an
ex-governor of Tennessee is to speak on
temperance in the interests of the Anti-
Saloon league, of Vermont. Just as some
George street. More than 100 men par- of the aldermen were found opposing the
licipatea in tne oosequies at xne nouse, petition ot tiie Advintists on the irround
and afterward acted ns an escort while that the citv should not provide a meet-
the remains were being taken to Hope inir place for any particular sectrso oth-
cemetery for interment in the family lot. ers were disposed to look askance at the
There were many fine floral tributes. The Anti-Saloon league request, on the
following men acted as th-arers: Joseph '(rrounj that the council could, with eoual
Comolli, Alexander Colombo, Achille Co-j justice, make the same concession to the
lombo, L. Vanetti, C. Bianchi and R.
Olgiati.
Floral tributes included the following:
Carnations, Mr. and Mrs. A. Abhiatti
and family, Mr. and Mrs. P. D. Molla,
Mr. and Mrs. L. G. Rizzi, Mr. and 5frs.
Alexander Colombo, Mr. and Mrs. G. Cal-
cngni, .lr. and .Mrs. aleetti and fam
ily, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph B. Sanguinetti,
Mrs. S. Fontana and family, Mr. and
Mrs. O. Bofiino. Mr. and Mrs. R. Panii-
goni, Mr. and-Mrs. R. Calderara, Mr. and
brewers for the kind of a meeting they
might see fit to hold. Barre physicians
also asked permission to use the open
house next week, for a lecture to be
given by a New York state doctor under
the auspices of the state medical society.
Very little opposition was encountered,
by the physicians, who said the lecture
was to be free and of an educational
usture. Their request Mas granted.
The request of tlie ministers to use
the hall Feb. 20 for a political meetinir
Mrs. Alfredo Mulnati; bouquet, Charles, was also tranted. but the appeal madii
Sassi, Natale Fontana. William Forbes, j by Elder Miles was turned down, it being
Romeo Scampini. Marft Bianchi; bou-the sense, of the council that the nrivi-
quet, A. Martinetti ami family; carna-n,.ge of using the theatre gratis for a
lions, Acniiie loiomuo; piuow, lamny; i aeries of meetings, instead of one meet
nsrin, oromers, aiaie toiomoo aim
Battista Colombo, sisters. Mrs. Frances
es Abbiattl and .Mrs. tiusto Alioso;
ing, should not be countenanced.
Brook street residents living beyond
the Maple avenue intersection asked to
. -t T- ! IlLt.ll! T I-!. .
wreatn. nepnews, rraiiK ooiaiii, 140111s flnve tlioir houses numbered in order,
Abhiatti, nieces, 5frs. F. Marchesi and
Miss Rose Abhiatti ;N wreath, Sociata Mu-
ua Soecorso; roes, Mr. and Mrs. Lam-
perti and family; bouquet. Miss Harriet
Houston, Karl h. Keith, Thomas H.
Hoy, Ralph Nye; roses, carnations and
lilies, Mr. and Mrs. A. Abbiati and fam-
Iv; rose and carnations, emploves of
J. Smith.
II.
ENTITLED TO FAIR MONEY.
DEATH CAUSE UNCERTAIN.
Claode Noble May Have Died of Blow or
from Drowning.
Rochester. Feb. 2. Claude Noble, a na
tive of Kiriaman. M.. emnlored hr tl,
Doctor Eng at fminhed CTanile product is 2.1 twr "rent. American Kealtr enmpanv at RirhVter.
ithe tim i severely bruised but not ad valotvm. and this i inrm.l tn SO wfc;I dnwinir a load cf h.ll K
In Probate court toUy J.Nophinc 'serious! injured. tnw-nt tariff on. nnRnih.l i-r-.r. t. .ffermviii tn tl, V.. T?. 1.1,1..
j The two men, who were spending tie three cents r"T cubic f.t. Tlie bill -camp, was thrown Mo the river at the
tTarlt ettl-.1 brr anrount a admini'
trstnx of the rtae of ltamel F. tlark. afterno.n at the home f IVwt'.r Hazen's ha been referred to tbe er.mmitt. on Giiernaer liri.!re. When tV. . fr..m fK.
Rutland County Society Favyed By At
torney General s Opinion.
Brattlelioro, Feb. I. Attorney General
Herbert G. Barber to-day notitied State
ml i tor Graham that in his opinion the
utland County Agricultural society is
entitled to a share of the state appro
priation for agricultural fair. Marshall
Hapgood of Peru had objected on the
ground that the Rutland fair licensed
gambling devices.
The Rutland county states attorney,
fter investigation, reported he could not
ubstantiate Mr. Hspcood's complaint,
and Attorney General Barber found that
the Rutland fair officials had complied
with the statute, as to affidavits that no
gambling device could be licensed. The
appropriation for th other fairs has
-rrn held up pending he outcome of Mr.
Hapgood's complaint a to the Rutland
fair."
CROSSED GREAT WALL.
late of Montpelr: Mellnlle F Sm he parents in t Hartf -rd. wcte slid- v ay and mean,
rendered hi annual account a eieei'tr-r iRtf on a trvere on ti e ii-e l.en thcr! "
ereiof the wiil of Amanda etn; (irf r- ni in ptntact with a furrow of twrel
of
Erie Pirie of the Wrmonf Trwlip
liwnita xit ininiii iMHt t rrew 1 1. xn.PT 01 it,i wttlel fu a,-. frr.int. iifinpanv rrturti.-! tn the , itv thi mom-
in taking tharg of ti lt. A large eiint adminftrat-ir of th nUU The imrn't w wb that the U4 was ' ing, after spending eral iTs in Ev
nun: her ol jriifn cajturrd Iroa va- of Ckri4- CHthaW, lata (it (.!,. Inkeo to sjliutci. ,.,0 va buuaeft.
water he was d-d. Titer wa woun 1
Ctinese Insurjents Are Row Besieging
Datnmfa. '
I.onln. Vfh. I. Mnpgolian inurcents
on hi he I. and it i not known hrter fjive crr"l tiw grent wll of ( Inn and
death cu4 br the wound or hr the adan guard of 2.i0 i ben-sririir I in tor:
drowning. II remsina wcrs rmoe.l t- tl nty of Itatumfa. aotirdirg to a di
tbe bfime of eky Hanon at Kobin- tt-h from Mukdei forwrted br the
o, wfacie tt had made kit bome.
that they mny profit by tho city delivery
of mails. The request was referred to
the city engineer, with power to act.
George Laird, a Graniteville man, asked,
through the mayor, to have the council
investigate the South Main street crow
ing, where he claimed to have received
severe injuries when his horse tipped
him out of a sleigh on the afternoon of
Jan. 8. Mr. Laird stated that six other
sleighs were tipped over in the same f
ernoon, the accidents being due to the
condition of the Barre & Chelsea railroad
tracks. No action was taken, as tint
council held that a man travels the high
way at his own risk. City Clerk Mavkay
read a communication from the Central
Vermont Railway company, in which th
latter's purpose to pay big lump of
liack taxes was reiterated for the third
time in tive weeks.
Through the recommendation of tha
building insjiector, Maggie Gervani and
others were granted permission to erect
a building, 24x28 feet, near Foster street.
On favorable reports from the wiring in
spector, permit were granted in tbi fol
lowing iases: Mrs. L. I. Robinson, to
wire for lights a new bouse at 4. Hill
street; V. I'arnigoni. to wire ft eottaga
house fr light; John Caloagni, to wiro
for lights a cottage house at 17 Fo
street.
Warrants were approved for payment
in the following order: Tlie mayor,
f20.2i, Helen Wood fund income for dis
tribution anion? the indigent; street de
part men t payroll, fllt.t.1, sewer, side
walk and health account; water deport
trent pavn-11, fire department par
j-i.ll. o..-rt;; polio department payroll,
f'H'-'iK; A. I'-cmi. 14. er k-
H. H. H.-lgdon. .'4. UK.c and
m plies on tne pre alarm ytm. At 1
iYh-k. the min il went into exeeutitft
i-uttr's e.VTesj-'n !ect at Petrograd. ivn.
