FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
& Jt )jc jt 3C )C )Jt )f! 3 (t Sjfi
$
&
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
'..
ii ii' m wf?,
. v " ' i: , '.
I I 1 1 kV
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1916
tmri? mvn rrvrc 0N trains and news
rKILIli TWO CLiN la stands ftvb cents
I ,- 1 1 M II H i n 11 CI t I i t J 13 1 i 4 I
IJ ftJLJ -1L II II II 1 1 1 1
SH LINER A
1ST NOT LEA
u UIBI
. PORT
While No Official Decision Has Been Announced It Is Un-
derstood That Course of Officials Has Been Determined
1 -Vessel Will Be Interned at Norfolk Along With Crew
Until War Is Over--Frisoners Will Probably Be Re
I leased From Custody After Short Time, and Non-Com-
batants Will Be Allowed to Go Anywhere
' Washington, Feb. 2 The British African liner Ap
pam, brought into Hampton Roads as a German captive,
will not be allowed to leave Norfolk.
While no formal decision to this effect'has been- re
ported this forenoon, the highest state department of
ficials said that this course had been practically de
termined. The Appam, standing as "the white elephant of the
seas" for the United States, Germany and England, may
be the source of disputes between this nation and the
other two. But, her dentention is held possible first be
cause as a prize that can be held for prize court adjudi
cation, or, second, as a German naval auxiliary subject to
internment.
A formal "interlcoutory" decree to hold her pending
final decision is considered.
The British embassy announced today that it will ask
the Appam's release and return to her owners. If the
state department does not intern her as a German auxil
iary officials declared they will answer England's demand
by placing her in the prize court. President Wilson's
approval probably will be sought as the court of last
resort.
As for the prize crew aboard the Appam, there is no
doubt that thev will be interned,
few British army and navy officers on her is a knotty
problem, the solution of which may also be internment.
As for prisoners, they probably will be released at an
early moment, as there is no basis for holding them in a
neutral country, while non-combatants undoubtedly will
be discharged within a brief while.
WAR CONTRATS BRING TREMENDOUS BOOM TO BRIDGEPORT
'" ill i 'hnt
jT -"W! 4 rwl A -.j i ill Mn
Jf ' $ n , Vis"' 1 f-'1 3
.ifUl
WISES ARE CEIIJFLED
Only dne telograph wire is
working out of Portland to the
south today, due to the havoe
wrought by the 'silver thaw."
Instead of its regular leased
wire service today The Capital
.7ouru.il received its news in
half hour intervals, surrender
ing use of the wire for ot'uor
purposes for the same length of
time. This has naturally cur
tailed our press report today.
str
1
PEIZE OF WAR
Washington, Feb. 2. The
government neutrality board
recommended to the state de
partment this afternoon that
the German seized British Af
rican liner Appam at Norfolk
be considered a prize of war
and not a converted nuxiliary
cruiser. o
limington Arms Co. plant in
Bridgeport as it looks today, and
site of plant as it was a year ago.
Bottom: plant of American & Brit
ish Manufacturing Co. at Bridge
Bridgeport, Conn., Feb. .2. (Special)
The war in Europe litis made a boom
town out of Bridgeport the Essen of
America. Twelve million dollars spent
in less than a year thanks to th.U
war have brought into being in this
city what will probably be the greatest
small arms ami ammunition plant in
tho world that of the lieniington
Arms and Union Metallic Cartridge
factories. When it is in f ull operation
it- will call for the services of from
But the status of the!4:0 T'JT'' J.l'V"
latest word in 'Actory construction and
yet in its present form it may be said
to have actually sprung into existence,
to have come before the eyes of Bridge
port in a moment.
The enormous plant of the Reming
ton Arms Company was not in exist
ence last March. It was turned over to
t'necompany by the contractors in No
vember, so that this immense creation
was completed in less than 8 months,
and even as far back as list August,
it was so far completed that outward
ly it looked as it does today.
It has made such a revolution in
Bridgeport that the company has been
obliged to build practically another
city within the city for the accommo
dation of the thousunds of men who
are coming from all parts of New Eng-
, , yvi-.. ... V I I . f IV I : I I ,1 1 V- ..I ,.J1 ,v.. J. ,,,. .AIK.'.! VJ ' "T .V ,' . V ' . .W'A Y .... . .
is1i it is'll llli J. .?i II 9 8. . is!.u,Ht? 8,. i.J . 1 " ,' "-.Jl
- v "WW. 11
LATEST PS Off
Railroads Are Blocked and
Street Cars Stalled In
Many Cities
Norfolk, Va., Feb. 2. Snatched from
the deep by a uerman prize crew ni
for a guard of marines aboard to main
tain the status quo between German
and British subjects.
Lieutenant Berg, German command
er in charge of the prize crew gave
evidence that the Moewe, which cap
ture the Appam and seven other craft,
was not a regular warship, but an aux
iliary, when he produced a commission
in the German auxiliary reserve. Much
depends, too, upon what classification
is given the Appam. The situation
presented by her presence in this port
has given officials a new problem to
solve for which they have no preced
ents. Lieutenant Berg had appointments
with the customs collector and the Gcr-
er being given up for lost, the big, man consul to prenare a formal state-
British African liner Appam rode at!ieut regarding his claims to the vessel
anchor today while both British andj0nd to internment in protection of the
Germans aboard her awaited Wash- ( American port.
iimtou word as to her disposal. i The Appam, is ehchored just off Old
This decision was expected today. In- Point Comfort a quarter of a mile from
volved in it was the question of wheth- the protecting cannon of Fortress Mon
er the Appam privateer subject to in-roc.
ternment, or a prize, subject either to; About her circles a fleet of harbor
internment or release to the British craft, vainly trying to get into corn
owners. I inunicntion with passengers, most of
The long milk of t!ie ship was dimly, whom are believed still to be restrain
Wen from shore, bobbing in the fog ed partly bv the prize crew,
and rain. Aboard her, 4."0 British New features of the daring exploit of
prisoners in charge of 42 Germans 'the Moewe in capturing the Appam
awaited permission to go ashore, and came to light today,
it was anticipated that the vessel I Confirmation of the report given the
w ould go soon to Newport News to dis-1 United Press yesterday that the at
charge non-combatants. Communica- tacker was the survey vessel Moewe
tion with the ship was strietlv prohibit-1 came with knowledge that the prize
ed and meantime port authorities asked j crew had "Moewe" on their hat bands.
. in nuiuuon 10 Keeping ine iriiisu
I fwilnm ftvinrr itn tho Annum while tthp
i ploughed the Atlantic dodging the
I cruisers, it is reported that the Ger
'('mang in charge forged British papers
ito present to any vessel stopping them.
Berg denied that the Appam had been
halted, but it is reported that an al
lied pntrol wirelessed her when suspi
cion was aroused by the painting out
of her name. The prize crew evaded
satisfactory replies and gave x ficti
tious name, it is stated.
Immigration officials boards the ves
sel today to arrange for sending ashore
such uf the crews and passengers as are
entitled to liberty. Out of the strange
shipload, if) persons were found to be
entirely without funds. On the other
hand, number of well to do Britu.t
colonial authorities are reported to be
on the passenger list.
The British consul is making arrange
ments for the return of passengers and
crews to England aboard British ships
trom .Norfolk.
Z Abo Hartin
land to form a new colony; it has gone
into the work of sewering and grading,
and is now about to turn its attention
to the-question pi schooling for chil
dren of its sub-city. Eighteen thousand
men and women in tho employ of the
liemtiigton' Arms, KtyluO more in that
of the Union Metallic Cartridge com
pany, will form the sub-city, and with
tliem come their families. The com
pany is now taking them on at the rate
in the Reington plant alone, of 2,000 a
month.
There are thirty-eight buildings in
the plant, and of the main units there
are thirteen. They are five-story brick
and steel buildings, 272 feet long by
sixty feet wide. ' Instead of standing
separately, or being connected only by
corridors' or extensions, they are con
nected with each other by five-story
buildings, called 'service buildings,"
each of which is eighty feet long by
forty-eight feet wide, so that the whole
mass forms practically one gigantic
building. At the end conies a single
story building 272 feet by ninety-four
feet, connected on the ground floor to
the main units by a service building
eighty by forty-eight feet.
To protect this great plant the com
pany has employed a small army of
guards with a military organization.
They arc honorably discharged soldiers
or Bailors of the regular army and na
vy; there are 300 of them, divided in
to three companies and officered like
an army company, with a captain at
their head, and lieutenants, sergeants
and corporals under him.
Of the 18,000 men who will bring
the working force of the Remington
company to its full complement, there
are already 0,100 at work, and the em
ployment department is interviewing
applicants at the rate of 500 a day.
This department has a building all to
itself and conducts its work pretty
much oa civil service examination principles.
Portland, Or., Feb. 2. Portland is
in the grip of the worst "silver thaw"
in history today. Everywhere trees
and wires aro breaking under the
strain of heavy coatings of ico, whilo
a mixture of rain, slcct and snow is
falling in streets ankle deep with slush.
Severe snow storms throughout
Washington, Oregon and Idaho have
demoralized transportation, and few
trains reached Portland today. Eigh
teen inches of snow fell in ten hours
in some parts of eastern Oregon.
Intcrurban trains out of Portland
were able to run slowly, but most of
them wero annulled because there
were no passengers.
Several funerals scheduled today
were postponed because it was impos
sible to reach the cemeteries.
Several waterfront concerns today
began moving their wares from the
lower docks, fearing that the melting
snow will bring the Willamette river
to unprecedented heights.
Street car tratfie is completely
demoralized. Suburbanites today re
mained home or walked. Even horses
could niako slight progress in the seas
of slush, mixed with sleet and ice.
Great damage has been done to trees
throughout the city. The Plaza block
is filled with the huge limbs of popular
and elm, broken under the weight of
ice. Many trees have been uprooted.
Littlo relief is promised by tho weath
er-man. Slightly collier wenuier, east
erly winds and continued snow are
predicted.
Hood River, Or., :Feb. 2. If
t e ground hog appears today
he will have to burrow through
three feet of snow to get a
view of the cloudy sky.
Thirty-six inches of packed
snow covers the entire lower
Rood River valley. Five feet
is reported in the upper valley
and snow was still falling to
day. 3jc 3fc )c c )c sc ))c 3C
E IS GREAT
KANSAS GREETS WILSON
WITH WILD ACCLAIM
DESPITE ZERO WE A THER
Ten Millions of Property Lost
and Eight Deaths Are
Reported
Helena, Ark., Feb. 2. Ten million
dollars property damage and a death
tell of oigbt is the estimated result of
floods tweepiug four Arkansas coun
ties rind eleven parishes in northern
Louisiana. These territories are hur
ried beneath six to fifteen feet of
i water, while freezing weather inflict
terrible suffering on many homeless
persona, and swift currents aad winds
imperil rescuers.
The crest of tho flood is near Littlo
Rock. Levees have burst flooding;
Lake Village. Three hundred workers
are striving to save Laconia Circle but
the levee there is threatening to go
out at any moment. Still another
break is imminent at Caruthersville.
Passengers, prisoners and stevedores while there are number of weak
joined in the task this forenoon of , r.nots in the levees at Yicksbure.
taking fresh provisions aboard the Ap-
Hpeakin' o'
Bud hi an Elk,
tax ferret nn' a night oh I. Another
raiise fer erious apprehension in
this country is th' growin' tendency
iimong our people t' kid thcmsclos.
VILLA AT PASADENA
! I'n,n- I
irrom Lieutenant Berg came todav a
description of conditions aboard the j.
M . u.i -V- . , .1-. .
-iu?vr uciore sue capiurpri me Appam,
He described these as almost unbear-
l: tf umr. wnn oer ivu prisoners on ine
a Moose, a Ele. , i tiny frwhonter nd mnHnrn diseasef
-Moewe had taken in her adventurous
career were not put aboard the Ap-
(Continued oa Tago Five.)
Los Angeles. Cal., Feb. 2.
Reports, that Francisco Villa in
living near Paradena, that he
strolls boldly through the
streets of Los Angeles by night,
and that he visits his wife here,
were investigated today.
Topeka, Kan., Feb. 2. Hailed
Governor Caper as the man who "has
sat undismayed upon the hottest lid
since Lincoln's time," President Wil
son spoke here this afternoon to five
H.onsaiid crammed into the auditorium.
And the crowd that had braved zero
weather to hear about preparedness,
voiced approval of the governor's
"Kanas admires that kind of grit"
by a mighty roar of applause. Other
thousands outside battled to gain ad
mission to the hall already jammed
even in the aisles but upon being prom
ised an overflow meeting at the high
school they retired there.
The Sucre as the president and gov
ernor shook hands are stirring. Hun
dreds of American flags, released from
the top of the hall, fluttered overhead,
while the crowd broke forth in enthu
siasm. At one point, Wilson was Interrupt
ed by the din of the crowd trying to
storm the doors, but police clubbed the
leaders into silence after a few mo
ments. Komeone is too eager for national de
fense, I guess," commented the presi
dent, smilingly is he resumed.
Soberly, emphatically he told his lis
teners here tnat tho country may be
called npon'to use its "instrumentali
ties" in preserving personal and busi
ness rights.
Bark of his warning to Kansas to be
prepared, ran a strain which some in
terpreted as meaning a warning to
England not to enforce an illegal block
ade; a challenge to Germany not to
molest Americans in their right to
travel on the high seas.
"America," he said, "has the right
to feed the world with your wheat.
When there is a blockade w recog
nize the right to blockade; where there
are ordinary restraints of war we rec
ognize them. But, toe world neUs the
wheat of Kansas;
"Moreover, traveling of Americans
ought not to be impeded anywhere by
infractions or law.
"Like true Americans," he contin
ued, "we should stand shoulder to
by shoulder in upholding the validity,
strength and irresistible force of Am
erican ideals. All other countries must
be made to realize that in preserving
the. rights of the people of the United
States everywhere, and in prmitting
them to enjoy the provisions laid down
by international law, their traveling
ought not to be impeded anywhere by
infractions of international law.
"We have the right to send the war
ring nations our cotton and manufac
tures. But, to do this, we must pre
pare to show other nations that this
nation is determined that its ideals
shall be respected."
In considering the Monroe doctrine
and the spirit of America, be said that
the country must prepare to uphold the
real significance or the nag the up
holding of the rights of all mankind.
"In Cuba, we vindicated our prom
ise," he said, "in hauling down tho
flag, there was more of an honor than
in hoisting it. The flag will come
down in the Philippines as it did in
Cuba as soon as we feel that the people
are able to take over the management
of their-own affairs and no longer
need our protection.
President Tours Through
Bleeding Kansas Today
Aboard The President's Special, Kan
sas City, Mo., Feb. 2. President nil
son swung into Kansas today to feel
out the pulse of the wheat belt on the
subject of military preparedness. Not
many persons, however, knew that he
was here for the few minutes required
in switching his train en route to To
peka.
He will return here tonight for his
final address before turning toward
Washington. In this, he will indicate
as he did last night at Bes Moines that
he does not relish the idea of continual
Iv writing "notes" and will urge that
he be given the support necessary for
(Ceatioued oa Pag Tare.)
All Seattle Walta.
Seattle, Wash., Feb. 2. Scattlo's
population will have to walk until toe
worst snow storm of 20 years lets up,
And there is not the Bigntest hope of
that happening for many hours, accord
in? to the weather bureau.
Hope of brc-iking the grip of the
snow storm was unamioueu py me
street car people this afternoon and
thev announced that no more cars will
be sent out.
Thousands of downtown business
men and employes are making hotel res
ervations, rather thnn attempt to walk
home.
The snow fall has reached a depth
of more than two and a half feet in 30
hours and It is still snowing furiously.
All public schools are closed until
the storm abates.
Eighty inches of Snow.
Wenatchec, Wash., Feb. 2. Snowfull
at Wenatchec measured oighty inches
on tho level this afternoon. Know is
still falling with no sign of a let up,
The government station at Leaven
worth reports the snow there nino feet
deep on the level.
Four feet of snow has fallen in the
last 30 hours.
NSTRUCTIQNS
10
Villi
BER T UFF
I
ROUBLE
"Positive Understanding" Is
Now Hoped For, Accord
ing to Berlin
STATEMENT ISSUED TO
OFFSET BRITISH REPORTS
Germany Is Pleased Over Re
sults of Latest Zeppelin
Raid On Britain
Berlin, by wireless to Snyvillc, L. L,
Feb. 2. The foreign office has sent
Ambassador Von Bernstorff at Wash
ington instructions which give a rea
sonable hope for a "positive under
standing" in the Lusitunia case, it waa
scmi-officially stated today.
The statement was issued because" of
alarming reports from British sources
regarding the present status of German-American
relations over the Lusi
tania case.
"It is true," said the statement,
"that Katurday Ambassador Von Bern
storff cabled that he had found it
thuB far impossible to adjust the cas
in a manner satisfactory to both sides
by a friendly verbal exchange. Today
instructions wero transmitted which
give the reasonable hope for a positive
understanding.
The above tends to confirm dis
patches last Saturday night to Unitcl
Press from Correspondent Ackerman
at Borlin. In these, ho said, Germany
is anxious for a settlement of the
Lusitania case and will do what it can.
to provide such adjustment.
Turkish Heir Suicides, -Amsterdam,
Feb. 2. Prince Yussuf
Izzedin, heir appnront to the throne of
Turkey, has committed suicide suiil
unconfirmed Constantinople reports to
day. It was snid tho Trlnce cut his arter
ies at the pulaco this morning because
ho was despondent over a protracted
illness and in disfavor with the sultan,
because of opposition to the Turko
German alliance.
Train In Atolled.
TtnLnr rii. Vah 0 ThA Rnmnter
Valley train due here at 4 o'clock yes
terday, is stalled four . miles . from
Hnmnlni- in iwnlvO foot. Ctt HlinW And
the storm is still raging. Food and
luel wore carried to tne passengers vy
snowshoe volunteers today.
io train nas neen auio 10 icave
Huntington for the fast 24 hours'.
. Lieutenant Accused. . .
Vallejo,- Cal., Feb. 2. Charged with
responsibility for the loss of a United
Status navy signal book from tho
destroyer Hull, of the Pacific reserve
flotilla, Lieutenant Herbert A. Jones,
superintendent of new work in tho
machinery division at tho Muro Island
navy yard must face a general court
martial. If It is established that the
code book was stolen, the whole code
will be ordered rewritten, as it might
be in the hands of a foreign power by
this time.
Many Lives Lost
' In Severe Alaskan Storm
Juneau. Alaska, Feb. 2. Btormi and
severe winter weather during the last
two weeks in southeastern Alaska have
cost many lives ami $100,000 property
damage. Many plate glass windows
in Juneau have been blown out.
From Petersburg comes word that
11 men have been- lost in thut vicinity
during the past fortnight. Eight were
drowned and three frozen to death.
The weather cleared today and the
sun whs saining for the first time in
several wccKs.
Germany Is Pleased.
Berlin, Feb. 2. Germany hailed
with gratification today the news that
the Monday night raid against London
had penetrated to tho great citios of
Liverpool, Manchester, Sheffield, Birk
enhead, Nottingham and Great Yar
mouth. The war office revealed that
many bombs had been hurled at docks,
blast furnaces and factories, with re
sultant explosions and fires.
Zeppelins Bald Salonika.
Washington, Feb. 2.1 The American
consul at Salonika today reported 1
persons killed, 15 injured and $00,0O
damage wrought in a Zeppelin raid
against Salonika at 2:30 o'clock Tues
day morning.
Stock Market Sees
General Advance Today
(Copyright 191(1 by the New York Ev
ening Post.)
New York, Feb. 2. During the most
of tho day on the stock exchange re
covery continued. This was chiefly go-
erncd by repurchases for the account
of various speculative sellers. The buy
ing affected war shares, the decline er
Which in the lust month was violent and
in which the bears were active.
Several advanced two to three points,
and several which recently had been in
active, rese rapidly.
Railway and steel shnres moved niroi
larly, though more deliberately. The
market acted as though it had conclud
ed a prolonged movement in ene direc
tion, had spent its force, and then de
cided to close out tho speculative ac
counts created in the process.
Senator Sherman wants Japan warn
ed to let China alone. Kut in thin time
of world war a warning to senators of
the Sherman type should come first.
THE WEATHER
fT. T7rrr
I I I l,r I
some. mN
YE" Oregon: Tonight
Vnl",? and Thursday
"Sli'i 'h ruin south, rain
rain south, rain
or snow north
portion; easterly
WMldlh-: . .
