IP
S$WL
Showers to-day, but continuing warm;
to-morrow probably fair, not so warm.
Highest temperature yesterday, 88; lowest, 75.
Petalled weather, mall and marine report on page 9.
IT SHINES FOPs ALL
VOL. LXXXm. NO. 343.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, AUGUST 8, 1916. Copyright, 191B, by the Sun Printing and rublUhlng AuocMlon.
ONE CENT
In Oreater New Verb,
Jerter City and .Nfiurk,
r Elsewhera
I TWO CK.NTS.
BRITISH REPEL
GERMAN SMASH
TO REGAIN LINE
-s-sm-sBBmsa-as-saim-sBss
Defenders Hurl Back Five
Bushes in Twelve Hours
Near Pozieres.
GROUND BETAKEN
IN COUNTER ATTACKS
Australians Tenaciously
Hold Trenches Against
Surging Onslaughts.
DISREGARD DEATH,
ORDER TO TEUTONS
Advance Must Be Held, Re
gardless of Losses, Ber
lin Warns Men.
London, Aug. 7. The German at
lacked with stubborn fury at many
points along the British tine to-day
making lavish use of artillery and
mn In an effort to regain ground
ftcently wrested from them. But, ac
cording to the British official report,
their efforts had no effect save to tn-
erwse their staggering list of dead
ind wounded and to throw Into Brlt
lih hands many more prisoners.
Northeast and north of Pozieres.
there the Australian are holding with
Joggtd tenacity the trenches recently
won nt the bayonet' point, five epa-
late attack within twelve hour were
ir.ade. Two of these were launched at
daybreak, following a bombardment
luting all night. The Herman
brought themselves Into the contested
territory In a determined charge, and
tor a time the Issue wavered.
Coaster Attack Gala.
Here and there a section of an ad-
trtnee trench was captured, but before
tin position could be organised to meet
a counter attack the British reserves
turfed Irresistibly onward, and the Ger
man occupants were either killed or cap
tared. At 1:50 o'clock two more attack
ere made with an Identical reault. All
ef there advances are charscterlsed by
the British as strong and well exe
cuted. Late In the afternoon another
attack, this one called feeble by the
British, broke down.
An official statement from the Ger
man army headquatters at Berlin re
parted the capture of a trench at Po
icr. It Is the opinion here that this
announcement was based on the tem
porary occupancy described In the Brit
iih report.
While the main action of the day was
on the Somme front there was a spir
ited contest over n shell crater at
Vouches, where the British scored a sue-
V. and artillery and tomi activity
vs fir north and west as the Belgian
frc.it.
Kertnans Order Advance.
A French correspondent on the British
frent telegraphs:
The Germans yesterday furiously
counter attacked positions taken the
iay before by the British north of Po
!ere. An order had been given to the
flits In the pozieres sector to retake
from the British at whatever cost Hill
HO. is shown by the order of the day
itmed by den. von Huelow and read to
the troop yesterday.
The order said ! 'We must at what
er price regain possession of the
fojierci" plateau, which. If It remain
In 'he hands of the Kngllsh, would gave
tfceni precious advantage Attacks
lll he e) by successive waves, sepa
rate by a distance of eighty meters.
Triops w.dch first cain footing on the
r'.atnu must remain thereand await
r.eces'ary reinforcements at whatever
leu there may be. Any officer or man
ho fa. I., to resist, even unto death, on
the conquered ground will be summoned
ImrnMlncly before a court-martial.'
"A nuxber of copies of this docu
rn' were taken from prisoner. Two
i'vlilons participated In the heavy at
tack. tnstrallnn Shan Cnurose.
"The Australians again covered them
ihe. with glory. One regiment, which
cccipiM advanced trenches to the left
t tre Itapaume toad on the edge of
tae ilatt-iu, gave proof of magnificent
rerolsm in icslstlng the assaults there
cf Htvar'in and Saxon regiments, hold
g nut rtnlrally under a deluge of shot
n4 shell and yielding not an Inch of
rrounfl The regiment sustained appre
c.able loses. hut Its courageous reals-
tsnce enabled the English commander to
"e the necessary disposition to check
the Herman counter offensive.
"All enemy attacks against Hill ll
anl the pozieres mill were repulsed,
the ene-ny suffering serious losses. The
Rermsrs sent forward three strong
co.'imr.s df one battalion each. The
Brlllth artillery Immediately began a
Wding nie of remarkable precision,
hh cut down the assailants' ranks,
forcing them to a nreclnltate retreat.
'fronting by the confusion of their
1"rles the British, with much
prewnre of mind, vigorously attacked
he Herman northwest of Posleres.
Aunra'lans and troopa from County
Knt haraed and at the point of th
oret -aptured two lines of trenches.
Jn '11 they made progress about 201
"'r In the direction of Martinpulch."
TWO GAINS FOR" FRENCH.
rh'r Cantor I. Ine af Trenches
'tween Hem Won ana loin me,
Pin. .... , . .
,Jr'J iMe thiV ev Milng a line of German
''sent between Hem Wood and Ihe
Jmme. Th, French alio made eoms
jrerren ,.,uth of the Thlaumont work,
n the Verdun frnni
"virlng the day there
S Vigorous
CetitlriMC'l on Seconrl Pof.
GERM ANS MAKE PAPER
FROM COTTON STALKS
Discovery, if True, Boon to U.
S. Manufacturers, Lincoln
B. Palmer Soys.
Berlin, Aug. 7. The royal material
testing office at Orossllchterfelde. a
uburb ot Berlin, Announce paper can
be manufactured from cotton Haiku.
The dlcoverv was made. It la stated.
by a aerman Initltution while carrying
out a commlMlon from an Egyptian ilrm
given before the war. A shipment of
iiikj wnien naa arrived from Egypt
oeiore tne opening or hostilities waa
useel for the experiment
The Malk were cut and ground,
boiled and bleeched and the paper mak
ing then proceeded after the usual meth
od. The rcult moved the testing office
to arrive at th decision cotton stalks
are a good material for making paper.
Lincoln B. rainier, manager of the
American Newspaper Publishers Asso
elation, aald yesterday that although
private and governmental laboratories
had been seeking for year to And a
ultable substitute for wood pulp In the
manufacture of paper, nothing had been
proaucea mat would stand th test,
"If the Germans have solved the prob
lem," he said, "they will have rendered
the United States a valuable service.
and It ought to bring millions to the
Inventor of the process. The dkscovery.
If true, should prove a boon to the paper
making industry in this country."
24 AEROPLANES IN
BATTLE ON SOMME
British Aviators Make Sensa
tional Attacks Against as
Many Germans.
With tub BntTisit Armies is Kpancf.
Aug. 7. Work of British aviators re
cently has surpassed the wildest flights
of Imagination.
Aerial fights which attract sensational
attention are only an Incident of the of
fensive camplagn, Overwhelming num
bera of aeroplanes are concentrated on
the narrow front of the Somme battle
In coordination with a superior, uncc.is
ing volume of gunfire. The aeroplanes
move In larger and larger flotillas, and
there have been cases with a doren en
gaged In battle on either side.
The Germm first line and second line
trenches. headquatters, billet" and sup
ply depots of all kinds have been
bombed. Not a village occupied by the
Germans In the neighborhood of the
front that has not had Its aerial bom
bardment. Dry official accounts of the Aviation
Corp and their aviators' Jargon reveal
a number of amaxtng feats every day.
A pilot described an average experience
thus:
"1 first attacked a Holand, but finding
a rokker oentnd turned ana maniruvrrti
under his tall. He fired one gn M
very close range and the Fokker nose
dived and went down with a spin. If
It had gone down direct It would have
been "crasher," "
Aviators felt the concussion 9, not! feet
In the air when a brigade of Hrltlsh
aeroplanes bombarded Henln Lletnrd
(northeast of Arras) with a shower ot
112 pound bombs.
ITALIANS PUSH FORWARD.
Itrport Capture ot Aaetrlan Po
sition In Tufann Itealnn.
ftoua. Aug. 7. Italian troops have
captured strong Austrian positions com
manding communication between the
Tr.ivens.nzea Vallev nnd the Ware lor.
rent in the (Jader Valley In the Tofina
region, save an official communication ,
Issued to-day by the War Office. Sev
eral Austrian attacks on the slopes of
Monte Zeblo, on the Sette Communl
Plateau, were checked by Italian artil
lery. On the lower Isonxo the Italians
gained possesion of nearly the whole
of Hill s5 and held It against violent
counter attacks. Prisoners taken In
yesterday's fighting by the Italians total
3,flfl. A large amount of ammunition
and guns also was captured.
MAY REOPEN RELIEF PARLEYS. I
Will Xend t Memorandum
Britain
to Paste To-day-
London. Aug. 7 The Foreign Office
will tend to-morrow a memorandum 10
the American Ambassador which will
leave the way open for a resumption of
the negotiation for feeding the civilian
populations of the Herman occupied
area, the conditions for which, as laid
down by Great Britain, were recently
rejected by Oermany.
The memorandum will suggest that
the United States Government can re
open the question If It considers such
a step advisable or useful.
GERMAN SOCIALISTS CUT OFF.
French Members to Contlnne Kf
forls for Captured Territories.
Paris, Aug. 7. The National Council
t l.- V. Un,.l . 1 1 .f .hl(.h I . ImMIn-
lis quarterly session' here, adopted to -
day by a vote of 1.824 to 1.07& a motion
providing for the severance of Interna
tlonal relations with the German
Socialists.
A resolution propored by the major
ity faction declared that the Socialist
party should "continue its full efforts In
national defence until the Invaded terri
tories of France are liberated and Bel
jlum and Serbia are reestablished as free
and Independent States."
Another dliects the Socialist party to
obtain from the Government "declara
tions, firm and precise, upon the purposes
of the war as regards France."
LONDON TO STOP MILK WA8TE.
War Committee to Ure Munlrlpal
Control of Distribution.
London, Aug. s. The House of Com
mona war committee of prices Is pro
paring a report on the milk supply of
London and will recommend municipal
control of distribution In a mnnner
similar to the present postal deliveries,
according to the Daily Sew, which
says,
"It hva been found that the present
sporadic distribution by the various
milk companies Involves n tremendous
i .mount of overlapping, Irregularis,
wa.t. and th. employment of use.).
lh"f '
; . . .
I J"SS.tnStwl! Mnii
gu. via """th"" L?..'?',.J'h r.V
"tared le-dsy. t.v. Nsw York daily 1:01 p. M.
pullmsn Drawing Room tlesplng car, Nsw
fork to Augista. N. T, nines, :o Kltth
Av. dtv,
$267,597,000 FIXED
FOR ARMY BUDGET
Conferees Disagree on Build
ing Scheme and Personnel
Increases in Naval Bill.
8. YEAR PLAN MAY GO
Navy Officers to Be Promoted
by .Selection Instead
of Seniority.
Wasmisotom, Aug. 7. National de-
fence legislation In Congress Is approach
ing completion. The conference commit
tee on the army appropriation bill sub
milted to-day a complete agreement and
th conferee on the naval bill voted to
disagree on the big construction pro.
gramme and personnel increases, the
only remaining point ot dispute In that
measure, so that the lasues may be re
ferred back for quick settlement by the
two houses themselves.
Members of the House, the majority
of whom are away on vacation, will be
called back to Washington next week for
a vote on the building and personnel
irctlons of the naval bill.. Representa
tive Padgett, chairman of th House
committee, said he would submit the
conference report Thursday and call It
up the following Tuesday or Wednesday
for action.
President Wilson, Navy Department
officials and other adequate defence
cl ..mplons of the Admtntstrallon, are ex
pected to tnnkc a determined effort to
Induce Houso leaders to yield to the Sen
ate programme for construction of sixty
six vessels, eight of them to be capital
ships, during 1917. The Jlousc provided
for only live capital ships.
If It votes to Inelst on lt original pro
visions It Is said the Senate conferees
will offer to le tift the three yeir con
tinuing programme In the Senate bill as
-' , ' " . cram- unKcririg wun ine larm proiec- it deM-lntN-d to.dav
corvlder and accept the big prcrnmme ,,,. , ,, a,tvp,..,,P(1 disregard I Mrs Mav H.-rnnrd Wllto of Spokane
for the Unit year. f partisanship In the ?eh-itlon of sept to Secretary llrvan some specimens
Secretary Daniels s plan for promotion Cabinet ir.-ml.ers and d plomatis's. which -h- said were transmuted gold,
of navy officers by selection instead of "HM the Administration kept us tit llryan thought well enough of them to
by seniority was accepted, hut was so nf war touted th. speaker In recount- pass them along to the Treasury De
amended that It would applv to officers , lh)t ,torj. nf the M. xlcan troubles ipartmet-.t with the recommendation that
of lower rank than that of commander. vcr;, crux was war. a very Ignoble war. .the affair l Investigated.
Provision Uk made for a hoard of nine we coquetted w.th Villa and we coquetted 1 The Treasury Department referred the
admirals to bass on promotions, and lx , u!l cj,rranM, We showed n dtsiuisl-' matter to the Seattle assay olllc. where
nniet agree In each case. jtlcn to favor Hny bandit w ho could land ill lay dormant until Senator Jones of
It aiM was agreed mai captains no
are ooi promoui wmir roii-n-oK tulwar to protect our rights when the
itflc of S7 shall be retired, and that com- .other side knows we're too proud to light
mntiders not promoted be retired at 45 I w have had an exhibition during the
and lieutenant-commanders at I". The pim thr(( yrnTt hlch. 1 confess, rills
conferees awo raiseu me general retire-j,ne
ment age limit rrnm : to st years.
Senator Chamberlain will call up Ihe
Department made an unsuccessful effort
to induce the House conferees to recede
from tnelr Insistence on the Hay amend- ,
ment making relhed ofllcets exempt from
provisiorm or tne military cone.
Among the bis armv appropriations is
tl3.:sl,l! for aviation
niraTTftV Tn svrivril PT4B1T 1
OVATION TO SriAlU.K LAtt&' I
Ilnnae rheers Ilia Record nf Thlrt)
tlirre Vrnrs In Congrrti.
Wasmincton. Aug 7. When Itepub-
' llcan Lender Mann reminded the lloue
i to-d.i that Speaker Clark had Jut
passed his thirty-third iinn'vereary ns
a member of Congress, Itepubllrans anil
Democrats arose and iheered the Speak
er for several minutes.
Hespondlng. Mr. t'lark said he wansn't
sure he wanted to remain In the House
another thirty-three vears.
but he did
know he wanted to stay on long us he
could.
BILL TO SAVE SOLDIER'S NAME.
Lloyd firarge Pushes Measure
to
Aid Wnr OfrH-r Hlililo re.
London. Aug. 7. David Llovd (.eorse,
Secretary for War, moved to-day In the
House of Commons for the second read
ing of the bill giving civilians the right
to appear before courts martial as wit
neMtes. and to hnve civilian members of
! the court In cases where tho accused Is
not In military service.
I This hill was designed to lit the ense
j n( n certain War Otllce official against
whom rumors have been circulating. He-
I plvlng to a demand that the nnme of
tm , divulged, the Secretary said
,,c was seeking "to piotect the honor of
....,. Irkh r-..hll .nl.llor nenln.t
a--,.' nnnn.n, nIMn r nrtt rl in ine .SnnTI , 111 ... i. . . I . r . . i A.I.. ...... 1 . L. I . . . ...l
. nZ- 1 .vmrricaii rigius in . '"""7 '"' "'i'' . 1 i" . I arbitration by arbitrators ee eeted In the
to-morrow The bill as .weed on car-, Mexico are respected." I have to rrs.rt that Mis. Wlltse has.,,,.,.. miim,r
rled $!7.S97.0nO. or Is5.00fl.0u0 In ex- nf tnlftA tri.mendous cheer from fulled t" show mat she Is able tochange u ' .. ';.- riaim, bv either
ces. of the House bill. A report had tht v,i(HII) employed at the Dodge au- silver Into gold. In fact I am satisfied "" VTbrarbUrslde ?hc ouXn
been delayed several days while the War, tomohll. nl.mt In ihe nfternoon when that there Is not the slightest rwsslbllltv . P.!.."y.. nV.'l : 'i"." .Z"
accusntlons Involving dishonor." '"" n opportunity to wntk for
The bill passed to Its third reading. ' do,l", 1J,'t w'r' ,h'" ' f1
' to th" Isetterment of human life, to the
. . "... liberalization of nil those things .on-
21 GERMAN LINERS BUILDING, reeled with human understanding and
purpose We want America tlrst In
HanitinrpT-Anirrlran Co. Look forithe mind and heart of every one In this
"Karly and Honorable Peace,"
Sptctal Cable lmpntcl In Tnr. Srs.
Lonpo.v, Aug. 7. A news agency des.
patch from Geneva reports that the
Hamburg-American Line has Issued cir
culars to Its customers announcing thnt
twenty-one ships under construction are
nearlng completion.
It adds that the prospects of nn "early
and honorable peace" and the resumption
' eommerce under the (lerman ttag
aie singularly bright
BRITISH NOBLES WOUNDED.
Xncl. vllle-Wcsl nnd Lord Thynne
i hot In I'rnnce.
Aug 7 Hrlg-Gen the Hon
hn Pachvllle-West, heir pre.
IiNnoN,
Charles John Sacltvllle-west, heir pre.
sumptlf to the title nf Ilaron Sackvl.le,
and Lorn Alexander George Thynne,
member of Parliament for Hath, have
been wounded In France.
Lord Thynne la Ihe fifth son of the
Marquis of Hath.
TALAS IS SAVED FROM CHAIR. I
Slaer of Mrs. Austin A. Mrnols .
(eta Commutation. j
Ai.nant, Aug. 7. The death sentence
Imposed on Onne Talas, convicted slayer
of Mis. Austin A. Nichols of New York,
was commuted to Imprlhonment for life
by.Gov. Whitman to-day. The conimu
tation was recommended by the Judges
of the Court of Appals. I
Talas was convicted of til st degree
murder.
OAKLEIOH TH0RNE VERY ILL.
Reported to Re In Critical Con
dition After Operation.
PouoHKMPsie. Aug. 7. nakteigh
Thome of New York city wi reported
to-day to he In a critical condition.
He has had s relapse following an
operation (or acute appendicitis.
AMERICA MUST BE
FIRST, HUGHES SAYS
Opens His Campaign With
Two Housing Meetings
In Detroit.
HE MEETS WORKINGS. EX
Want Government Run on
Same Efficiency Scale ns
They Follow.
Dctboit, Au. 7. Charles K. Hughes
opened his campakn for the Presidency
with a bang to-day. Me opened It with
a series of bangs, in fact, for besides
addressing an audience of 2,f00 at Ar
cadia Halt and J.OOn at the Armory to
night he made no fewer than four other
specchea before sundown.
The day was hot, and a heavy rain
which act In In the early evening, con j
tlnued till midnight, but the hall- In
which the two main nddries were
delivered were packed to overflowing.
Moreover, the nominee Ind the exhusl-'
astlc support of every crowd which he I
fnced. He charmed his hearers by talk-1
Ing In the Detroit latsguige, as when he,
said: "If a manager were to bo ap
pointed for an automobile factory would
jou appoint a man who bad nevir seen
an automobile?" I
For Industrial Preparedness.
This question was put In the course
of an excoriation of the Wilson Ad
ministration. Americanism wns the
theme of both the night addresses. Mr '
Hughes emphasized the neov-slty for
national iltlclcncy nnd Industrial pie-1
p.iredti'Ms to meet the problems nrlslnic I
after the Kuropc.tn war, ridiculed tru
(Administration's handling of tho .Mexl-1
lean situation, insisted on th- protection
of Americans abroad, nssalli-1 Memo-
we're In no danger of having to go to
wln dp.,, ,,, of t,ame.
1 have I
.not a particle of militaristic spirit In
; . svstem. but If I am el-cted President
1P declared
"The ItrpublU-an party stands not for
n prosperity produeeil by war but a
prosperity produced by a sound Amerl-
,.nn principle.
"I am going to make myself known I
! to the people of the I'nlted States."
Mr
I Hughes told another of his audience
At the first meeting or the evening. In
Arcadia Hall, the s-aker was Introduced
by John D. Mangun, chairman of the
Kepubllcan State Central Committee. At
the second meeting In the Light tlu.ird
Armory he wo introduced by Mayor
Marx.
Amerlt-n Musi lie Supreme.
Mr. Hiishcn at the m'-et'nz at Aicadla
Hull spoke In pirt as follows
"You have here the problem of the
sudden Introduction of a large Mien
population You did not leinaln Indif
ferent. You set nn example In Am-rl-canlxatlon
in alt America . ard we point
to Detroit as the one place in this land
w-here there has been shown a Uick'ii
Ing of Interest In the development, train
ing and Americanising of alien men ami
women who have rome to this hmd
"It Is perfectly Idle to epcu a sound
sentiment of American unity if
jjn,,
who come among u a.s strangers nim
meiely In be exploited. When we admit
men and wnn-rn to this country we as
sume obligations with iepe. t.i their
training, as well as granting privileges,
nnd wo have to be awake to
thee
obligation, and to realize that 111 evny
community thcte must . a well or- 1 ornanu. .Me , ami .Mi.. .n.vrtle Ander
ganlned effort to irake AmerUa supreme j1"1'. -US List Th't t.v -elehih street, Man
In the thought of every one who conu s , hnttnn.
Into the community, to have the lan-1 .
guage understood and spoken, to have
American sentiment repl.i foielgn
sentiment, to have American Ideals re
place foreign Ideals, to have a leallr.a-
HOn mil iniS IS 11 COUnilV HOI Slllipiy
For Better Welfnre.
"But America Is not simply n Innd
for the man of special talent or of dls
tlngulslieil aptitude This Is the home
of the average man. The nrdlmry man,
the man who Is doing his best vvhilever
his talent or aptitude And In our largo'
Industrial occupations whete thousands;
aro gatheied together In one servtco
we want n recognition nf human brother- I
I hood In providing for the welfare of I
i those who make the weilth of this great
country.
"We want working men o tie safe.
.guarded from eveiy injury that tan ne
' prevented. We want the health of the
t worklngmcn looked nfter: every means
pmvlded which conducts to the pmper
standpoint of living; every means pro -
Vllll'll I'll M""I I'li'iiii.-n, "I't'i '.'-
ate means for education, for vocational,
training, In t-hnrt the workltigmaii who
Is In his Job and e xpects to continue. In
III'. J"" .' -...r.
something worth while for n community
l. . l.h m.CTh. tn T.A . n a . It A H (inilll?
Conflniierf on Fourth Pitt)'.
IMPORTANT NOTICE!
Because of the grnve shortage of paper in this
country, copies of The Sun, morning and Sunday, and
of The Evening Sun, aro now non-returnable from
newsdealers, along with the Times, the World, the
American and the Tribune.
To make sure of getting your copy of Tho Sun,
every morning, every evening nnd every Sunday, do not
fail to leave a standing order with your newsdealer.
HEAT KILLS ONE AND
18 ARE PROSTRATED
Humidity, OH ; Temperature, 88
Cooler Weather Promised
To-morrow.
Tha sultry spelt of yesterday, con
tinued over from the day before, waa the
cause of one death and eighteen prostra
tions throughout the city. The man who
dWd was John .McOlhcney, 60, of 437
West Klfty-slxth stiect He waa over
come at Forty-third street and Eleventh
avenue last night nnd dropped In front
of an automobile truck owned by the
Colonial Hand Company, On of the
wheels fractured his skull.
Th highest temperature registered at
the Weather Bureau was RS, two degrees
lower than cn Sunday, Thermometers
In the street, however, registered 0 de
grees and more. It was the humidity, as
usual, which made the day especially try
ing. This was !8. equalling the highest
mark so far this season.
There was little air moving, but It
brought a light patter of rain In the af
ternoon, which foiled to affect the tem
peraturo appreciably.
For to-day the forecaster predict a
continuance of the warm spell, relieved
somewlmt by thundershowers. On
Wednesday he predicts n probable coot
ing, with moderate south winds, later
changing to northwest.
S.1
MAKE SILVER GOLD
Eiicourflired Woman's "Dis
covery" for Transmutation
of .Metal.
Washington, Aug 7. Hesldes trying
M...,. . I..... ..,.1 win.
t Brnpo Jul--. William .1. Hryan when
svrclary tit Stnt lent his countenance
t . nn effort to tram-mut- silver into gold.
Washington wrote to th Department
I. commending Mr. Wlltse's claims bo '
given consideration. !
Mnally the otllclals In the assay office
lent her n ple.-e of silver and told her to 1
go ahead an.l traii-mute It. Several I days ,
m-iai r.uirne.i. ami t reuencK j
i- wewey. a-snver ni ine tiureau or tne
of her helng able to make such a change.
I supplied her with some of our purest
s.Iver After n few days she delivered
to me some globules of metal coated with
Hrongly ndh-rent non-metallic material.
On careful test this mixture gave a faint
reaction for gold, but It was tco slight to
mem anything and may Just as well
hnve come from the non-metallic mate-1
rial as from the metal. It was undoubt
ed I v due to Impurity In some reagent
used by Mrs. Wlltse." j
DISAPPEARS FROM SOUND BOAT.
, VI nu Heulstereil ns F. llrsni
l.enves Three I. .-Iters Hehlnd.
The .N'ew llngland Steamship Company
t .-twirled -estenlaj that on the arrival of
the stenmer Providence nt Providence on
1 1'atiirdav morning it was found thnt a
"titeroom enraged bv a man who had
I e ven tt-e name of F S. Kvans bid not
liei-n occupied. Three letters, addressed,
si .iled mid stamped, were found on the
bed. beside a note to the captain, which
lead t
"I hope nn action In ending mv life
..n linit.J ...... .(.!.. ..lit .
( M..W-. ...in nnj. m,, (-.-Mii-t- j-ini no in-
i ,ui j-ni muni. Me -iiai
t'.fe l.tteis are mulled? Apologising
foi my action, I elo-e. . s, Kvans,"
The letteis, h rh. were forwarded,
were addressed to Mrs M. P Seeley, lt.1
1 moon Mrcei, I -oiisnKrepsie , .mihs Marie
'ii .viiuersoii. ureal luamnnil Island,
STUBBORN SOLDIER GUILTY.
II 1 1 1 1 l,i ittu n Who ll.-fusril to Take
(In Hi Is unvli-trtt.
Col t'Miit's, N M, Aug. 7 Lewis O,
..iiiiin'1, ii . in, lie ill me l-irst ,ew
Mexico Infantry, was found guilty by a
general couri-martlil here to-day on a
charge nf falling to subscribe to the Fed
eral oath vvlilrh would muster him into
the service of the I'nlted States with his
company June 1 1 just
The verdict, together with the recom
mendations of the board, which were not
made publle. was f rwarded to the Sec.
retary of Wnr bv Lieut. -Col George K.
Slockle, president
ONE KILLED IN STRIKE RIOT.
Another
crliiistv Wonnded
In
Conflict nt llnrre, Mnsa,
Iari::, Maes
, Killed, another
Aug 7 One man was
seriously wounded and
several pers ins received minor Injuries'
, miring a rt"t near tie m:lls of the Harre
i Wool Combing Companv to-day. The
I trouble followed nn attempt of the mill
1 olllclals to reopen their plant with new
1 empl") ees in plate of stilkers. Several
-i.",- -l f i l-il'illl KU'ililH lie-
foie the ills'ui bapee was quelled,
Tony Tollaskl, a strlktr. was hit In
the breast by a bullit and died within a
few minutes. Charles Lokus,
another
striker, wa shot in the right side and
taken to the Worcester City Hospital,
where his condition r tl to he critical.
CAR STRIKES SETTLED FOR 7,600 MEN;
GREEN AND RED LINES YIELD TO UNIONS;
PEACE FOR 3 OTHER SYSTEMS TO-DAY
WHITRIDGE PLEDGE
TO ARBITRATE GIVEN
Public Service Records Show
That Oscar Straus's Charge
Is True.
DURING STRIKE IN 1913
Chairman Stevens Had the
Promise of Railway Presi
dent Placed on Minutes.
An examination of the records of the
up-Htate Public Service Commission, now
temporarily In the possession of the
Public Service Commission In this city,
showed yesterday that Oscar H. Straus,
chairman of the commission, was right
when he said that Frederick W. Whit
ridge, president of the Third Avenue
Knllwnv Comnanv. had failed to keen
nis promise to euomu to armtration tno i
difference., between employees and the '
his promise to submit to arbitration tho I
company.
Chairman Straus had blamed Presi
dent Whltridge for the present Htrlke,
and Mr. Whltridge, from his summer
home In Scotland, denied that lie had
mnde any such agreement as the Com
missioners charged.
Mr. Whltrldur quoted.
Mr. Whltridge said In 1913. when hu
appeared before the up-State Public
Service Commission at the time of a
strike on the Yonkers railroad, now part
of the Third avenue system
"1 hav
e not only accepted your propo-1 jew York Railways are expected to return to work this moru
la I have asked the men to re-, . . . .. ...
I ltlon. but
i turn to work and I have begged them to
I return to work. I accept your propo
sition as you usked me to do, because
you made It."
Following are the two most pertinent
nnrl.r.tih. In 1,a iipiiihiuiI u-hlf-Vi fe
whltridge agreed to accept and which
Chairman Stevens of the commission
,rew tlp;
-Thnt th- ennan.. na ti,. .v,n
mn.lder all matters In dlfferenco and
(ha, nn. lrmUers upon which they shall
i, ,i,i. . -,. .h.tt .,,i.,ui..,l m
subject
of arbitration shall be nrbl-
trau-.l "
Possible Violation Touched tL'prn.
At that same time the question nf Mr.
Whltrldge's posslbln violation of the
agreement was touched upon. This came
about when W II. Fltscernld, spokesman
for the men. urged that the agreement
be put In writing and signed by Mr.
Whltridge. This was not done, however,
because Chairman Stevens didn't think
it was necessary, believing that tho of
ficial character nf the proceedings was
sutnclently binding. Jle expressed this
rp.nlon as follows:
"My dear sir. If Mr Whltridge does
rot stand by what the commission has
said to-day he eould not exist nor live
In n civilised community fur live minutes.
He could not do It. lie has got to stand
by what he has said here to-day, apd It
is not n mntter of personal recollection.
"It Is a matter that will be record d
here, nnd you will have a copy of It Jut
exactly as It stood, and ir lie snniini re
tract or withdraw one hnlr fmm it, his
ioltlon In this community In the city of
New York would be absolutely Intoler
able, nnd he could not live here. The
linger of scorn would be pointed nt him,
nnd he would be ostraclied by all decent
men."
Oscar Straus, repenting bis charge
that Mr Whltridge had brought on the
strike of the Third avenue employees,
said estcrday:
"I don't go off half-cocked I am sorry
that Mr, Whltridge does not remember
the statement and repudiates It."
VACATIONS AGAIN FOR POLICE.
trlke Hrttlenient Ilejiilcea 1(00
llliieeonis Cniun Itrsnwril.
Police Commissioner Woexli yesterday
nermlllrd
' ' "sir
no telaxation oi m vigi
lance established by the police since the
start of the strike. He had his full
force on duty
However, when nt 1 o'clock prospects
of n settlement appeared bright lie sent
orders to Chief Inspector Max Schmllt
berger to restore vacations to the 900
men called In by the strike.
In appreciation for their real the
Commissioner added another day to the
time of the vacation men, The police
camp at Fort Wadswnrth was ordered
reorganlned, A force of men will begin
their military training period to-dHy,
EIGHT HURT IN QUEENS,
strikers Attribute Accidents
Ineirrlenred Mnlormrn.
Working with iVJl abridged scliedute,
the New York and Queens County line
resumed operation yesterday morning
Seventy-live cars of the system were
taken out under police guard
lllght persons suffered Injury because
of the lack of experience of tne t-ter
drivers, the strikers said Five persons
u.,r.. hurt when a motor box blew up
i ad caught fire at Stelnwny and Van-
deventer avenues, onn man wns struck
by a trolley In the Hunter's Point sec
tion and two lojal workert wero at
tacked by strikers.
None of the Injured Is In serious con
dition. TAKE 5 SHARKS AT OYSTER BAY
Lara-rat Nearly II Fret l.nnsr
Slahl Frlahlens Hnthrr.
Oystf.r Hat, 'L. I., Auk, 7 - Five
sharks, the largest nearly eleven
feet long, vvete caught In Iong Island
I Hound, off Centre Island, to-day by Opt.
Daniel W. Smith and Charles Devoe,
two veteran fishermen of O.vster Hay.
The big fish were harpooned near the
entrance to Oyster Hay harbor anil
dragged up on the beach of the Col
gate lloyt e.uate niut kllliil Willi stonee.
.There were many bathers In the vicinity
and Ihe sight nf the dead sharks quickly
drove them out of Ihe water
I In addition to the five sharkn caught,
j Capl. Smith said he sighted many more.
New York Railways and Third
Avenue Directors, After Hours
of Debate, Approve Terms
Ratified by Workers
RESTORE SERVICE AT ONCE
Second Avenue, Queens and Richmond Walk
outs Also to End Wages and Hours
to Be Readjusted
Strikes of the 7,600 car men employed by the New York
Railways Company (tho green car lines) and the Third Ave
nue Railway System (the red car lines), including the Man
hattan, The Bronx and Westchester divisions of that railway,
i4i,i i. :ut
were Settled Inst night.
On the same basis, evolved by Mayor Mitchel, tho strikes
on the Second Avenue Railway, the New York and Queens
County Railroad and the lines owned by the Richmond Light
and Power Company will be settled to-day. The heads jof
those companies have been invited by Mayor Mitchel to meet
Chairman Straus of the Public Service Commission and him
self at City Hall at 10 o'clock this morning.
The men on the Third Avenue Railway system and on the
ing wun ine promise oi ine railway omciais inai uygones
shall be bygones." Full service will be established immedi
ately on both lines.
"We have won the strike," said President Mahon of the
international carmen's union. "Practically every demand we
made has been granted. We started out to get the recogni
tion of the union and we have won it.
"We sought the proposition of having the company deal
with its men in their disputes without prejudice, and we won
that. The men can return to work without prejudice.
"There will be a grievance committee at each of the barns
to straighten out trouble. As for wages, they will be adjusted
on August 20, and every man will get a square deal."
Terms Ratified by Both Sides.
'Tin tb.kli'il In 1p:iI1i," nnld tlio
Mayor. Ills face Ik'uihIuc us lie rp
I'elvod llie- now a from Pri'slilptU Tlii-o-(lore-
I. Shonti of tho New York Hull
ways nt !:-0 dVltii'l' liit ululit Unit
thi'illii-'L'iortiUMif Unit lltif. uftrrM'Ven
limns of di'lmti! iiinoiii; tlii'inetvcs
ti tul it tlir-t' ntiil niH'-linlf lur m--Moii
with the Miiynr nml Mr. Strnil-..
Iiml riitllli-il the ti'rnix tf imrt-oiiu'iit.
Furl lor In lli.i tlnv tilt' striUtTS Oil tilt
N,,v York KMlhvny Hail ,M--Vil
pfllfl' t'llllllltlull'".
"Again I want to congratulate you,"
said Chairman Straun to thv Mayor
over the telephone from the I'ublli;
Service Commission, where the s-lrlkf
lenders, President William U .Malum
of the carmen's union, William H.
Fltzm rald. the leader of the New York
strikers. Hugh Krayne. organizer of
the American Federation of Labor, ami
LouU Friillitrr. cimiisel, wero waiting
with otllclals of the Third Avenue
tern to take nctlon similar to that
mlopted by the New Yor.t nal,wa,s
Company.
Third ssenue Ci.pMnlnte..
It was alter tne inciioii oi tin-
York Hallways directorate that Ldwlu
A. Maher. Sr.. vice-president nf the '1 hint
Avenue ltailway Company, agreed mi be
half of his illiit torate to make the sanie
terms with the strikers and asked the
men to return to their car barns as soon
as iv.s-.Hile.
D.rectors of the New York Hallways,
i xhausled after tin Ir liiativ hours of de
liberation, during which tbev kept the
strikers, the Mav or and the Public Ser
vice ComuusMnners waiting, left their
hi rd room at D5 Hroadway at '.' M
o clock. They bad tittle to i-ay eept
that they bad not tec gnUrd the union
"It nnans rtu end to the strike on the
New York Hallways." said Mayor
Mitchel. "It means an end to the strikes
on the othif lines and a prevention of
in i -(tension "f the Mrlkes in other lines
It means a resumption of full service
immediately nnd a rontlnuati n of thit
service. I'm glad they ve done it."
.lieu Hnve Itlulit In tlrtuinlir. I
The terms on which the strikes on the I
New York Hallways and the Third Ate. I
line Hallway svstem were n tiled aie
Identical. The men have received the
right to oiganire without Interference)
on the part of the t-ompinles, the promise
of the right to select a committee of
workmen ti confer with the romp my. i
the adjustment of wnscs and working
conditions by the ind of committees nf
employets ami rninpani s hIIIc'iiIh or
thioiigh arbitrator and the return of tv
men to work with tit piejudlte Tin
men In return promise not to try to m
force rinsed shop '
The company officials tgiee to all
these conditions, but icMive the control
of ii'l matters pi naming to the In
rreasid efficiency of tin men
The strikers wen- Jubilant tart night i
at the meeting la the Ljceiim. wheie
Leaders Mahon anil l'llKeiald received ,
their sanction of the tenn anil told
them to go li.ii l to work They felt,
liny had won the right of tiui.inl7.lng!
all the carmen in New York cltv. The
directors of the two companies, however,
assert that the) had not recognlred the
union In any shape or form
'This Is as iood a i-et'lement as has
ever been made In i strike," sal'l Fi2
gerald at a meeting of eniplnjec.i last
night, "You fought for recognition of
your organization and ou got It You
will have a lepresentatlve nf )our or
ganUatlon looking after your Interests.
All we sought has been n cotnplu-hrd.
To-morrow go back to work nnd carry
, no chip on your shoulder. Keep your
mouths olos.-d and say nothing Let It
be a silent victory on your part. If
there Is any trouble around the barna
i do not get excited. The committees vv,ll
be here if anythln- happen?,
"Do not cause any commotion nbout
the barns Do your work Just ns faith
fully and n little better. I thank ou
men for the way you havo parlli Ipa'ted
In tills snuggle nnd the coiilbtetico von
have Iiml in uv. I can safely Pay that
If yon stick to your union vv will havo
tin- it of New York."
Xn ( tinnier Proposal to l'lilou.
While tbe directors of the New Yolk
M.tllwavs, hemletl by August Htlmont,
debated long nnd heatedly ovt r thu
terms of the ngrrcmelit tiiev tlid not
Hicct'cil in getting the Miyor and Chair
man Slrau to accule to their propol
t.on of submitting a cuut.t.r rf.roposl-tlo-i
to the utiMn.
The work of adjusting the differences
between the llll.-CtOls .1 ml th linn,..
, leade's licg.u, on Sunday, nnd during th
two d.,v the traction d.rectors or tho
, 'n j-dt. "'r canie Jar-e.
I prupnsltlnns fiom both sides
U '"'li", M M,lCl1'1 Mr'
i Straus . .tlli 1 the union tit- n to meet
tnem in conference, in the ll.tr Assm-in-
Hon
i:ii' iiiuiiu i-rt'Miiei.t M.imn, who
.tun ni"s; of tint talk, nr. most tracut ale
1 Mr. Mahon w.is ready to agiee to a
Pi-opts-itloti tliot did not In l.ttcr but
. did in 'V'rt tecogntzn Ihti un.on.
Propnsnl by Carmen's I'nlun.
! After tlin union men and the otllclals
hid d,scu.si.,i th (.(tuition for several
lemis MesM, M,i,n, Fitsgera.d,
Fni tie and Fridlgep submitted their
j agreement to the Mayor and Chairman
Mr.nif. In t 1 i following letter.
, "WV have cntefullv considered tho
I suggestions that jou have made tons
looking to a settlement of the strike on
Ihe New York It.tllwavs Company's lines,
and we herewith submit to ou, ,p nm,
Willi the suggestions tint yrl havo
made, the following propositions.
"If these propo-itiyns rrn put Into
I Hie shape of nn asieenient a' l signed.
we would bo willing to submit Hum
I llll'lledl.tttly to our people nn. I recon,-
i nicr.il that they be otccpied bv them ai
I a settlement of the present strike.
"I The emplojeea hive ,t legal and
moril ilglp. in oignuUe, t,n,i u,,, coin
( pan pledges that It wl'l not mierftrn
with the t'liiplo.vees In thc.i ever isi'.g
of these lights to organize, el' her by
, liilluildatl mi, coercion, tllsc'i.trge, or ill
anv sit' it wn) .
"". The rnmpmy will tecelve ird treit
with the cominltlee nf the c-npl"vees
upon any nnd all questim,, i,,,,t lV
aile belWeen t. 'It'll! Tills ,i.jil. llee to
select sui'h spokesmen or mlMseis iih
i they may choose to n-procm Mir it),
without any objection on the pan of
ine compaii), and tne ro-iip.ii v will in
no way Inierfein Willi the , te tion of
Hie coliiniltteca of employ eis
.1 That the questions of wagn nd
working conilllloiis n.t In-twee- tin cm
pioyrct anil the coinp.in.v eh tl he 'a'ten
up by ami thiough a ronim ti... of tn
etllplo.sees Willi til" nlllt l.'ils of Hi i.
puny on a date to be ;igieed upon he.
ivvien tilt in such date not t'i he utter
th. in the Ii day of August, Km;.
"I If the nbovo In agieed in .mil nr.
ceiited. It is further agietd tint the em
plovtes sh.il1 ie late off the str'ko nnl
return to work immedlttel) In th posi
tions they oe.-upied pror to t ie tin o f
going on strike, without pirji.dice
"Th.s iiiriement to be underw rliti-n
bv his Honor, Mayor Mitchel, and by thu
lion. Oscar S. Straus, clutraun, ot the
