WEATHER
*_*Ii*TltKKP Ull MlKH-bTOKMeV TO
a?iiKni?** riUUHHI.t KA1K AM)
M>T SO ? VhM MOHr HATR
' aOi'TII *"I\I>r\ BTfiruiima
NOKTIIW rXT.
ron ruport m i*aar ta.
Bfetnlotk*
~SaXw9^ rfa*er +r\ l.t
r I_r-ran i
iMtaittf
CIRCULATION
Over 100,000 D^ily
Net Paid, .\on-Returnable
First to Last?the Truth: News ? Editorials - Advertisements
Vol,. LXXV1 Na 25,468.
|< .?l<irl,lit 11 Ifl?
The Trlhuae Ass*n.)
TUESDAY, AUGUST 8, 1016.
? ? ?
ONE CENT
ln New V?.rU 'Itf, >*wer?.
Jersey f'lly ond Hohohea.
Street-CarStrikes Are Called Off,
Green and Red Lines Resume To-day
HAIG REPULSES
FOUR ATTACKS;
FRENCH GA1N
Foe Fails to Relieve
Threat Against the
Albert Plateau.
JOFFRE SWEEPS
MILE FRONT
Advances North of the
Somme and Before
Verdun.
?? ?? The Trtbuce. ]
London, Aug. 7.?The Germans
made four desperate efforts to-day to
halt the British machine slowly
grindinv: toward the Albert plateau.
All four failed, and Haig's troops
are now ready to resume the ad?
vance.
Meanwhile Joffre was giving new
proof of the strenpth that still lies
with the Prenck arir.s. Just north
of the Somme the Fu-nch drovc the
enemy out of a line of trenches be
tntnan Hem wood and the river. And
in the V< r.lun baWttlfl Petain's troops
made further pi
Thu*. while Haig's men are yield-1
infr none of thc.r gairs. and ar?
stri-nglhening their positions and i
patht rinp thtir force for a new blow,
the French pressure is unrelentinp. ?
To-day "s fiphting demonstrated that!
Jntfre's armies, unworn by the con
Btant batterinp they have withstood,
are able to attack at two points and
gain at both.
Thfl fury of the German assatilts
-they are described unoffi
eially as the most brilliant of the
whole offensive?indicate the anxiety
with which the Teutons view the
eteady Pritish advance. Haip's
forces nrw menace Thiopval 6erious
ly. and are closinp in from three
?ides.
Hill U.O liominating Poaition.
With thi capture of Hill 160, north
cf Pr-zier'?:?;, Martinpuich and t'our
?? \vr. brought within ranpe
of the British fire. The d.-struction
done ir. th.-sc villapc.- told of in re?
port? from the front that reached
n to-day?is proof of the im
port.inre of this hi'ipht, on the rulpe
flar.kinp thfl Albert plateau.
In an .?:Tr>rt tv relieve this threat,
the Kfl apfl began their nt
,.n.i Bortkcaat of Peaiaraa
tn'.) I Bg and continuod the
. latfl i'i the afternoon,
I from
I, In isolate," place?
th? Ge.-ma.is succeoded in entefing the
bat wero *oon driven
out.
attack* have ;-ho\vn
again th ,t the Teutons are BBabla to
i:p sufficient reserve* to make
(? eTeetivc and that the
? ? taken pOfl?flfllOB of
| evelled by thtir own guns
ind B-real li any ^helter,
?:? abU to boM them.
h (.ains Aid I'.-itish.
The blow which Haij; is aimir-i,- at
? ir.iiinj* be
tv.vcr. bli troopfl and the Albttt p]
. thfl renewed French
aaaaflll laty Genaas raavarvaa
cannot be withdrawn from JolTrc's
front for fear of another of the lancing
atxtkta t! at i.rv t.r.dlng th*e way to
I'ironnc.
ftont of a mile ar.d a half
mme th? Franeh at
:? ia afternoon ar.d earned
re Thui tha '.'? ?
. r. betweea (,'ombles
etai I | . rancing. Germaa
I tha French line,
. were nnavailing.
line humiliatiriK fail
, i rown Prinea'a ?/
fort* ia ?.- , tha Thiaumont
*or*- a.-.j ie Wood. The
'nr.c: :,. rtre pushing for
*?*o both ai Plaar-ff und at Thiaumont
twd ? 1Ba cre falln.g baek
iiowly 0ver the ground they won at so
tmt |
Shar; ? continue* in the vil
r-f" of Fleu-ry, with the poilus still
Jf***?I the whiphand. In vigorous
"sd-to-haiid combat to-day the French
^Ptun-j more hooaefl Ln the aroaUrB
*?? of the villagi
Teulon* Hard l're??ed.
, London was much intcrested to ni-^ht
?B ^he news that tha Italiau baaa ra
luaei a vigorona oflTflnahre along thej
Ijobio front, whera f'or.zia still block*
"?! "oaj to Trieata With Broaailoff
I*.1*1 Pttlhing on and the Allits on the
Jlft*t*rn front muxtenng their strength
??* new attackf,, a fresh drive by the
Caatiauo* aa pa** 5, colum* 9
Capture of Albert Ridge
"Var"*v'B.efviller?/
Solid Black Line Shows Preaent British Front.
By FRANK H. SIMONDS.
The exploit of the Anzacs in storming the ridge before and north of
Pozieres calls to the attention of the war readers again the most inter
estin- detail in the country over which the British are advancing. that is,
the Ridge of Albert. Without being in any sense an obstacle comparable
with hillfl before Verdun, such as Hill 304 and Dead Ifan'l Hill, which on
Ihe General Staff map is Hill 295, this Albert Ridge contributes matenally
to making military opcrations difficult, and now that it is mainly in British
hands gives the English tht- exceedingly valuable advantage of direct
vision north across the sjoping country to Bapaume, some six miles from
their front trenches.
Actually the villages which have been taken along the southern slope
Ol this Albert Ridge have been a far more serious obstacle, for the ridge
itself is no; steep and the day has passed when artillery can be placed on
Contlniien on paa* 5. rolumn 4
FIVE SHARKS KILLED
OFF OYSTER BAY
_
|One, Eleven Feet Long. Gives
Battle to Captors.
Oyster Bay, N. Y.. Aug. 7.--Five
sharks. the lnrgcst nearly eleven feet'
long. were cauttht in LoBg Island Sound,'
eBtTfl Island, to-day by Captain
1 Daniel W. Smith and Charles DflTOfl,
two vetcran fi?hermen of Oyster Bajr.
The big fis-h were harpooned near the j
: entrance to Oyster Ray hnrbor and ;
druKgcd up on the beach of thc Col?
pate Hoyl estate and killed with stones. i
There were mnny ha'hers in the vicin
ity nnd thc alght of the dead sea mon-1
Itori quickly drove them out of tho
1 waOfr. Captain Smith brought the
; sharks to Oyster Hay and hung them
iup in front of his bungalow, near the
; oyster docks, where they attracted hun?
dreds of curious sightseers from all
parts of Long Island.
The largaat shark ot the catch, ac
eordiag to Smith, put up a terrific bnt-;
Ufl before it was killed. Many of thfl]
wealthy roaidcBtfl of Oyster Hay, whose j
estate? are on the wat.-r. some time ago
reported the prOMBOfl of ofcarkfl in the,
around Oysters Hav, and the au- _
thonties commissionod .-.mith to patrol
the bay ia search oT them. In addition !
to thc five caught, Smith aaaerted he
sighted many more and wil! eontiflOO I
thfl hunt daily.
aa.-? -'
DOG MANGLES CHILDREN,
THEN BITES POLICEMAN
'Divcs Through Window in
Frcn/y. Due to Heat.
Two ehildraa aad a policeman in \
w,? t N.-w Briffhtoa, Btatoa island,;
were bitten and elawed last night by
? dog that dived through a closed
window into Mrs. (Jeorge Newbranth's
home, at No. 23?> Hroadway.
Mr*. NflVhraath'a baby son, one and
one-half years old, and her daughter
Bara, iive, were playing on thc floor of
thc library Ifl the home when the dog,
? haffl eollic. shtittered a fr.mt win?
dow glass and plunged into the room.
It sprr.nK upon the crouching children,
bit their hands and legs and then
triod unsucccssfully to make its exit
through a screen that barred a win?
dow of the dining room.
Its head caught in a. narrow hole
it had torn in the screen, and while
it struggled to free itself, Mrs Ncw
branth fled screaminfr into the street
with her children in her arms.
Patrolman Cieorga Dunn.of the West
IlriKhton station, attracted by the
dog's yelps and by the cries ei the j
mother and her injured children,
,i into the house. While he ,
fought against the animal with hl: |
nightstick. it suceeeded in sinking its
tevth deep into his right leg, teanng
a jagged wour.d. He linaiiy crowded
thfl dog into a corner of the library I
and ehot it. It will be examined to?
day by tbe Department of liealth.
THINK BREMEN IS
OFF MAINE COAST
Two Submarines Reported
by Lookout on Cross
Island.
Portlaad, Me., Aug. ". Ever** point
along the Maii e eoaat was watched |
sharply to-day and to-nipht for sub- j
raarlnea, believed to be forcipn ve?
Bfllfl and pOBaibl*/ the lonp-experted
German merchantmen Bremen and a
consort.
The strange vessels were reported
five mjles cff Cross Island, near
Machiaa, nnd close to fanadinn waters
to-day by a coast puard lookout, but j
r.o word had reached here to-nipht to j
brar ont the emphatio declaration \
from that BtatiOfl that they nre B
sea craft, an.l were procceding at top
speed toward the west.
Dnriag the afternoon, when the
watcher^ were most alert, a thick fog '
moved in fron sea and made exter.ded
observation impossible.
The lookout af Cross Island. Lowell
w. Dnnn, waa unabl- to distingniah
the nationality of the atrBBRfl craft
which he BBW, but he waa still in
sistent to-nighi that there eould be no
mistaha in hia identiflcation of the
vesai la aa luhmarinea,
Tha lookonl aaid that as the first
aubmarim eama te the surface he
. iflveral blaati fron* the aignall
. iighthouse on .Seal Island,!
a Britiah poaaeaaioB.
lt La believed that thc- keeper of the
lighthonai wai lignalling tathc keeper
a- Grand Maaan Light. alae Britiah
owned, that a submarine had been
The keeper of the lighthouse at Petit
fdanan, on coming aehore to-day, said
th.it while he had failed to get a
glimnse of a submarine he had been
inatrncted to wutch for one. He re
fuaed, however, to .-tate from whom hit
inatruetiona weri rooi
The Navy Department announcedthat.
no American subm.-rsibles were o?T thej
Maina eoaat, an.l information from re-1
iiablt- aooreofl that no Britieh subma?
rines were eraislBg in the.-e waters
aflema to eraatfl the Inaareee.ofl ia the
minds of many mariao?pbaer*/ora that
the Hremen was dodging about close to
the thne-mile limit preparing to slip
Into Bl -ton or Port' .nd
Another possibility eonsidercd wai
thiit the coast gunrd crew might have
set-n the Deutschland, driven out of her |
course. perhaps, or else sticking closely '
to shore :'or reasons best known tu her
bUbbot, _
Washington. Aug. 7. Navy officer*
aaid to-day no American submannes
wera known to bo BBjrwhari la the vi
cinit) of Croaa Ialand. Thee thouRht
thfl i.i..' aightfld there might be the
Deutschland on her homeward voyagc
or her sis'er ship. the Brenu:,.
Hi.lifax. N. S.. Au..-. 7. Jhe naval
authoritiei at thia port, who are in
touch with the eperatioaa of all I.ntish
veaaela on this aidfl ef th.- Atlantic.
were without information to-nn:ht of
the submarines reported as having be.-n
aighted to-day. It waa aaid authonu
tivah that thi-re have beeji no Britibh
?ubo?r?ea4 ia theaa walexa MRW?Bfc
FIRST HUGHES
DAY SMASHES
OLD RECORDS
Detroit Gives Nom?
inee Biggest Wel
comein Its History.
50,000 HEAR HIM
LASH WILSON
Makes Six Speeches, Sees
Bail Game and Attends
Receptions.
[Ft-tti a BBafl renraprwi'lent of The Tribune J
Detroit, Aug. 7. -Ju*t one day of ac?
tual campaigning ha* been suffieient to I
prove that the ("harles E. Hughe* of
real life and the cold ex-justice of
fiction are in no way related. Mr.
Baghflfl broke all known local records
fo- gtrenuou* work to-day when he de?
livered *ix addresse*. kept a score of
important engagrments and ?hook
hand* with or waa henrd hy at least
iOyOM men and women. During all of
hifl crowded day he paid less attention
to the weather than any one of hi*
rapidly wilting party.
Mr. Huphes proved that he wafl
erjually at home whether di*cu*sing
suffrag* affair* with a delegation of ,
women whom he reocived in the morn
ing at the Hotel Pontehartrain or in I
rooting for Detroit'* famou* baieball
etarg in the afternoon. And during
the entire crowded day he showed
every evidence of enjoying him**lf as
completely as dust and wiltcd collarfl
would permit.
I.i hi* first set gpeech, which was de- i
livered at night, Mr. Huphes severely
arrwigned the Wilson Adminiftration
not only for it* European policy but
bacaOBB of its attitude toward Mexieo.
"Say. Teddy never done anything
more than this when he made his big?
gest hit here," was the way one old
citizen put it. "I guesa there an't no?
body here thought Mr. Hughes wa*
like this."
Heat Meeting of the Day.
It was at the mrun meeting of the
dav. at Arcadia Hall, that the greatest
enthusiasm was exhibited. Speaking
(rt-.mporaneously, Mr. Hughes came
nearer to getting down to actual per
sonalitie* than he has in any of his
previou? utterance*. And as he ex
hibited the real fire of his nattire the
men and women who had braved
heavy rainstorm to hear him clambered
upon their chairs and *houted agree?
ment with him.
Mr. Hughe*'* attack upon the "kept
us-out-of-war" argument also aroused
? Btorafl of anthaaiaam.
"Kept us out of war?" he demande.l
"Why, there were nineteen men good
American soldiers, shot down at Vera
Cruz, and many Mexicans were killed
by our men. That was war. More
over, it was a very ignoble war. I
have heard three explanations of the
Vera Cruz move.
"First, it was explained that it was
made in order to rompel somebody to
salute the flag -somebody who had in
sulted us. But ihe flatr BTflfl not sa
luted and ha* not been to this day.
Then it was said that the salute was
not what we *ought, but to prevent the
laadiag of a beatload of ammunition I
mtended for Huerta. The ammunition
landfld, however. and it has been shown
that it reached Huerta in due season
without interference on our part.
"When that reason \*a* shown to be j
untenable a third one?and pos>ibly :
the real one finally was advanced.
lt wa* faid that our seizure of Vera
Cruz was a move to compel the retire
of Huerta. It flOOflflfl possible
that this is true, although we had
promi.sed the Mexicans that we would
not interfere in their affairs and told
i ..niiiiiieil on page 4, column 3
DETAILS OF AGREEMENT WHICH
SETTLED GREAT CAR STRIKE
Detaih of the agreement reached between the N?W York
Railway Company and its rmployr* are at follows, the matter
in parenthetes having been included in Mr. Shotits't proposalt at
the requfst af W. D. Mahon:
].?Tlir employes have the legul and moral right to organize,
and thc company pledgcs tliat it will not interferc with the em?
ployes in their excrcising of these rights to organize, either by
intimidation, coercion or discharge, nor shall employes under
take to intcrfere with other employes in their exercising of their
rights to declinc to organize, either by intimidation or coercion
(this applies as well to members of the association, whether they
be employes of thc New York Railways Company or not).
2.?The company will receive and treat with a committee of
the employes upon any and all que.stio.ns that may arise between
them. Tfiis committee to selrct auch spokesmen or advisers as
it m*v choose to rcpresent them, without any objection on the Dart
of the company, and the company will in no way interfere with
the selection of the committee of employes, it being understood
that if the committee shall select to rcpresent it the officers or
other reprcsentatives of any particular organization Ihrir appear
ance on behalf of thc committee shall not be deemed to be a
recognition on the part of the companv of the organizations of
which they are thc officers or rcprescntatives.
8 That the question of wages and working conditions be?
tween thc employes and the company shall be taken up by and
throuph a committee of the employes with the officials of the
companv on a date to be ajrreed upon between them?such date
not to be later than the 20th day of August, 1916.
The committee and thc company in conference shall attempt
to reach a satisfactory .settlement upon all questions of wages and
working conditions. "and upon such points as they may fail to
reach an agreement they shall submit to a board of arbitrators?
composed of three disi'ntercstcd persons, one to be selected by
the officials of the. companv, one to be selected by the committee
repicaenting thfl employes. and these two arbitrators to select
the third.
(In case the arbitrator selected bv the officials of the com?
panv and the arbitrator selected bv the committee representing
the cmplovrs shall fail within ten days to selct the third arbitra?
tor then indl third arbitrator shall be selected by Oscar S. Mraus.)
Both sides to have full opportunity to present all evidence
and argument In connrction with their points submitted to ar?
bitration, and the nward of the majority of the arbitratora, in
writing. shall be final and binding.
It is also ag>ced that all disputes tha may arise between
thr companv and emploves in the future, on which they cannot
mutually agree, shall 'be. submitted to arbitration as herein
provided. ,
4.--In the interest of public safety and public service, the
company wants it clearlv understood that the direction and con?
trol of emploves in all niatt.-rs looking to effieimcy in the service
remains with'the companv. and is not to be the subject of con
f.-rence or arbitration. but if a dispute should arise as to whether
a particnlar case fallfl withm thfl above class. that question shall
be subject to conference and arbitration as above provided for.
5 _If |he above is agreed tO and accepted. it ll further
nrrreed that the emploves shall deelare off the strike and return
to work immedialelv. in the positions they occupied pnor to the
time of ROlng on strike, without prejudice.
This agreement to be Rnde**wfttten by Mayor Mitchel and by
Oscar S. Strana, chairman of the Public Service Commission for
the lst District.
Mediators Bear Wilson
Plea to Avert R. R. Strike
U. S. Board Authorized to Present President's Appeal, if
Necessary?Congress May Be Called Upon to
Assure Protection for Mails.
[rmm The TrlHine Hureiti "
Washington, Aug T. Wi'h the strike
vote among 400.000 members of four
railway hrotherhoods to be announced
in New York to-morrow -understood to i
he overwh-lmingly in favor of support- \
ing the demand* of their leaders, of-|
neiala here will Baxtoaely follow the i
development* of the next forty-eight
hours.
Although there is the greatest op
tinifllfl that a break will be averted. i
the BXttaaaa gravity of the situation is ,
ad.aitted. The only danger feared is |
that sor.ie unforeseen ineident or a
last minute change of position by the
union* or the roads may set off the |
powder train which for weeks has been i
laid under the transportation system* {
of the country. The AdminUtration's ;
plans for meeting the situation so far
remain unchanged.
Full contidence i* exprjessed that the
United States Board of Mediation and 1
Conciliation will be able to work out
"Something About Him"
When you aay that Briggs draws clevcrly. you
haven t aaid it. Nor is it enough to say he puts good.
crazy lines in his people's mouths and understands
human nature.
Say all that and there's something about him still
left unsaid. What do you say it is? Whatever it is.
there's a good example of it this morning. Turn to the
baek page n'>u\
Uhe ilribune
Ftrat to Laat?the Truth
Sewa?Editoriala?Advertiaementa.
edUDmam-.
an agreement between the opposing j
group?, although it is admitted that '
the task is the most gigantic ever faced
hy a government agency. In addition
the board has authority, it i* under?
stood, to inform both the railroad* anl
the men that it is the President's per?
sonal wish that they agree to *ome
form of mediation or arbitration, and
that if necessary the President will
make a direct appeal to them.
l.ompers's Aid Asked.
Secretary of Labor Wilson in his un
announced visit to President Oompers
of the American Federation of Labor
in N'ew York yeste.riay ifl understood
to have urged the labor leader to use
all his influence with the union of?
ficials in favor of mediation. Some?
thing of the damage which the Presi?
dent believe* such a strike would do
to the cause of union labor if mediation
efforts weie refused i* understood to
have been also pointed out. Officials
here, however, are doubtful whether
even Mr (jompers can influence the
situation.
There is also a likehhood, it wa* de?
clared to-day, that the entire Federal
Board of Mediation and Conciliation
will go to New. York to be present
Wednesday following the conference
between the railway manager* and the
brotberhood representatives. If these
fail to reaeh any terms-to-morrow, or
work out any common ground for
agrtment, it is hoped that with the
Federal Board at hand a mediation in
vitation will be extended which can be
tetad upon promptly.
A* part of thi* plan Commi*?ioner
William L. Cha-nbers asked repre?enta
tives of the telegrapher-.' union ir. their
r-rst mediation conference to-day on tha
demand* they have submitted to thej
Baitim re L Ohio to postpone further i
discussion of their ca.se until the laiger
strike danger i* averted. He will pro-1
pose the same thing to the omcialg of j
the road to-morrow.
The main difficulty in the present *it
LmU 1 oaimi1 "ii rr^fl** A eaaaammeJa
WORKERS, RECOGNIZED,
RATIFY TERMS QUIOLY
Employes Can Organize and Treat
with Company?To Arbitrate
Wages and Hours.
MAYOR AND STRAUS WORK
ALL DAY ON SETTLEMENT
Hedley, Bitter at Shonts's Proposals, Threat
ens to Resign?-Subway, *L* and B. R. T.
Agreements Are Expected.
The streetcar strikes in Manhattan, The Bronx and West
chester were settled laat night by an agreement effected by
Mayor Mitchel and Oscar S. Straus, chairman of the Public
Service Commission. The settlement means the end of the
tie-up of these lines and probably saves the city from an ex?
tension of the strike to the subway, elevated and B. R. T.
The settlement is a substantial victory for the railway em?
ployes. The men obtained all they had asked except recogni?
tion of their unions as such. Briefly,'the terms of the agreement
accepted by both sides are:
1?The right of employes of the New York Rail?
ways Cortipany and the Third Avenue system to organ?
ize unmolested.
2-?The right to treat with the company on all
*iuesiijpns of dlfference through a committee ap
pointed by the employes.
3?Increases in wages to be arbitratcd by the com?
panies and these committees. In the event of a failure
to agree, the wage dispute is to be settled by a board
of three disinterested persons, each side to select one
and the two thus selected to choose the third.
4?The men to return to work without prejudice.
These terms, with only slight modilications in verbiage and
several minor interpretations, are those agreed upon Sundav
night by Theodore P. Shonts, president of the New York Rail?
ways Company, and William D. Mahon, president of tho Amal?
gamated Association of Street and Electric Railway Employes.
Strikers Eagerly Ratify Agreement.
The striking green car men rathied the agreement without
hesitancy and with tremendous enthusiasm yesterday morning.
The directors of the New York Railways Company took nearly
twelve hours of discussion to accept it. They fought all day
on techniealities. After a committee of four directors had
pledged the Mayor shortly after 6 o'eloek that the board would
ratify the settlement in a few minutes, the directors wranghl
for three hours and a half longer.
Mayor Mitchel, waiting in City Hall for the vote of thfl
directors, feared when the delay continued that the situation
would be lost. A few minutes before 9 o'eloek the Mayor tele
phoned President Shonts that if the board did not decide the
matter in half an hour he would wait no longor, but would give
out the agreement as the directors' committee and President
Mahon and General Organizer William K. Fitzgerald had ac?
cepted it. Nine minutes before the clock struck 9:30 the board
ratified the settlement.
Hedley Threatens To Quit.
The discussion in the New Vork Railways' Company board
yesterday morning over the terms agreed to by President Shonts
the night before became so critical that Frank Hedley. gencral
manager of the green car company. as well as of the Inter?
borough subway and elevated lines, one of the leading railroad
operators in the country, threatened to resign.
Hedley and some of the directors were bitter against
Shonts's proposals. the former maintaining that he had the strike
broken and that to give in to the men would submit the opi-ra
tion of the road to control of an organization with interests
other than those of the .New York public.
Meanwhile Chairman Straus had deferred the conferenco
with Edwtk! A. Maher, president of the Third Avenue system,
and the two union officials at the Public Service Commission.
The settlement of the strike on the Third Avenue lines in Man?
hattan, The Rronx and Westchester depended upon the aetion
of the New York Railways officials. Fifteen minutes after
Chairman Straus had heard the terms were satisfactory to the
green car company, the Third Avenue railroad accepted the
same settlement.
Mayor Meets Others To-Day.
Mayor Mitchel had arranged a conference this morning
with William 0. Wood. president of the New York & Queens
Railway Company, and John Beaver, receiv'er for the Seeor.d
Avenue Railway Company, the blue car line. Undoubtedly, the
same settlement will be reached in the cases of these two com?
panies. The Mayor also expects to bring about the end of tht
Staten Island strike on the same basis.
President Shonts and President Mahon agreed that the
striking employes on the green and red cars in Manhattan, thu
Union Railway in The Btfonx, and the Yonkera and W?*itche$ttf
