PWWjjWPJfl
TFtNANC'lA'L 'EDITION
Citatum
NIGHT
EXTRA
ft
VOL. H.-rO. 231
MIGHT
EXTRA
h
te
Sallies EXTEND
SOMME GROUND
IN NEW SMASH
IBritish Advance Near Com
mies jt'rencn uain ac
Guillemont
R-rffflirrONS IN THIAUMONT
Prfj-
E4 '
JZfrft Points in War
Situation at Glance
eMf. West front Germans re
take Thlnumont work on Verdun
front. AnBio-riwii.ii '"""
Joint attack on Gulltcmont, on the
Sdmmo lino.
Second. East front Russians
sound Austro-Gcrman center in con
tinuous attacks against the army of
Rencral von Bothmor south of
Brody. The Slavs nrc only 12 miles
from the, Tarnopol-Lcmbcrjr railway.
Von HlndcnburR pushcB counter-of-Wre
against Russians on Stokhod
toe, but fails to check Slav drive.
Buwlons repulse Austro-IIungarian
attacks in Carpathians. .
Third. Italian front The entire
oank of the Isonzo has been virtually
cleared of Austian troops. The Teu
tons arc said to bo preparing to
evacuate Gorlzla.
" Teuton armies arc battling despcrate
' ly on both the west and cast fronts to
1 OTcst the Initiative once moro from tho
''-'Allies. Today's dispatches indicate
' . hat, fortho most part, the latter are
1 ",not only maintaining their ground, but
''' aro pushing forward and gaining new
,;" positions. The oniy success rcpunuu
V for -tho Germans is containca in mc
V)'. adnrjasjon by the Paris War Office
& that the uermans nave ruiuiiuu iwv
1 JIhiaumont, on the Verdun front, wnero
fighting is continuing with the old fury.
On tho Somme front, the Anglo
French troops, ncting jointly, have
made progress in an assault on Guille
mont The French and British ad
vanced cast of Hill 139 and north of
tho village of Hardecourt. German at
tacks on Monacu Farm, along the
north bank of tho Sommc, have been
beaten back.
Russian troops," under General Sak-
JiarojT, aro pressing forward in their
,anvo on ijcmoerg. inc nuaauiuo uiu
iow only 12 miles from the Tarnopol-
Leraberg Railway and have once moro
Jpjt General von Bothmor's Austro--f
German armv south of Brodv in a no-
jsition of greal peril. Desperate at-
''fttmpla are being made by Field Mar
( i, thai vpn Hindenburg to halt the Rus
;j slanjforccs on tho Stokhofl line. Thu3
fS.'far, according to Pctrograd, the lion
of tho German army has failed to in
dict any serious blow3 upon General
" Brussiloff's forces, who arc pushing
,a their attacks along the Sereth.
i s Tho advance of the Slav army under
L't General Leschitsky in Bukowina is in-
i ' A rrPfminn n mnafiia rind wftinnntnni
: General Leschitsky has routed the Aus-Ir-trians
under Archduke -Karl, heir to
the Austro-Hungarian throne, south
west of the Kolomea-Stanlslau Railway.
Russian forces have also occupied tho
town of Tlumacz, southwest of Stan
lslau. The entire bank of tho Isonzo, tho
most important sector of tho Austro
Italian fronts ha3 been cleared' of Aus
trian troops. Preparations are reported
under way by the Austrians for tho
eVaCUatinn nf fini-lin tn m-nn Trull.
t? BtronEhold barring tho way to
I'itiesve,
BMTISII TROOPS WIN NEW
GROUND EAST OP TRONES
WOOD ON S031ME LINE
T.nHnnv Am
tlTth. attacks Mint nf Trnniia Wnnrt hnVa
F.'.XOn tnOPA Pmilnil n tho. TllHa In Via
KJ'eetlon of tha important road Junction of
iff- J, Bays tne British War Odice in
i official report this afternoon on opera-
EST f. "K ,he Sorame front.
lTi8hlne forward llnHpp mv.i ff HnrV.
IJf' 4h8 British pressed back ths Germans
I'JIh pi HIU No. 139, where the British
m noh armies on tha Somme front Join.
5T """ winery aareiopea In the outsKirts
lS"'Jleniont Is still In progress.
lvprnwes an4 has been the scene of some of
'.fix. Woodiest HshUng In the Allies' biff
aSSi?' Qulllemon la about one-half of a
SSS!!1"'"38 th wood.
g, onif mi report follows;
H.'f enemy after five fruIUess at
juempta yesterday north and east of
lf. .re' dld not make on fresh
it. " but maintained a heavy artll-
K7" "f" pb wis front and other Dor.
moos of thA im. o.b. .
P.Hurt5K tha n'8ht w8 pushed forward
gtae outskirts nf niiiii.mA.t Mnnn v.a
ptatlon Is proceeding.
ir Oh eastern nn.Hrtn . u t .u.u
feSlk'i! 5 nemy attempted an attack
!.i,-.'""a' DUl waa driven back with.
MUt difficulty.
,v"u o. atooilncourt. two of our
Continued on fattTvto, Column Xhnfa
? THE WEATHER
FORECAST
WFor Philadelnhin nnA tnrtniht Pmh.
m'y ahowera and thunderstorm tc
ISAt and, Wednesday; not quits so
Ui5l Llflffh Bnitttt 9ntnf7o htm'rtf
? MU .. 7Dap.m.lUoon outh. f.Vtv.m.
JJJXAWAUE KIVEK TIDE CHANGES.
tr?Ur IM3 n.Httlj watir.. 9:19j.jn.
ELS' Viler. 3 SjI n m T nu. ... 9 -38 n m.
ter. 333 a. m. Low water
ujoriirs
2rwr
"TT
yssrsTMrsT
GU 021
X
HAPPY FATHER PRODUCES CERTIFICATE
HP wBHHHIHiHm
k e iV 4 'Mil EPS?f
When this small lad was held up for examination at tho Market Street
Ferry today, his father wa3 ablo to hand over a certificate- showing
that tho boy had not come from a paralysis-infected nrea, consequently
tho inspector said, "Pass."
HUGHES ASSAILS
WEAK POLICY OF
ADMINISTRATION
After Stern Arraignment in
Detroit, Republican Nom
inee Goes to Cliicago
SPEAKS THERE TONIGHT
Huglics'8 Heavy Artillery
Turned oriVilson Forts
"T P I am put in a place of cxecu-
tive 'responsibility representing
all the American people, to see to it,
and that is my purpose, that Ameri
can rights bo safeguarded and that
America's name in Administration,
in policy and in execution Is hon
ored throughout the world."
"What is the President's policy
does any one know? Has the Execu
tive ever had a policy for moro than
six months on tho Mexican question?"
"There is no man who could suc
cessfully present to an American
community tho platform that an
American citizens rights stop at
the coast line."
"We will get through with this old
strife between capital and labor.
Wo aro not laborers and capitalists
in this country. We are fellow
citizens." "All that the workingmen want is
' n square deal."
"Wo want the unitea states ei
ficiently managed. I want to seo
men in office that believe in pros-
"The Republican party stands for
a prosperity produced by sound
American policies."
"We have removed from office
men of experience and substituted
others to satisfy partisan obliga
tions. This must stop."
CHICAGO, Auff. 8. Charles Evans
Hughes, Republican presidential nominee,
arrived in Chicago this morning for a 14-
hour stay that was to Include a public
reception and a 'speech tonight In the Co
liseum. Tha Hughes party arrived over
the Michigan Central from Detroit on a
special train.
Elaborate preparations had been made
for receiving him at the Illinois Central
station and the streets about it were piled
with crowds anxious to see the IUpub.
llcan standard bearer. As he emerged from
the station. Mr, Hughes was greeted w(th
a cheer from the assembled crowd and his
way to Nhe niackstone Hotel was lined
with cheering throngs.
Sir, Hughes, after breahfast at the hotel
with Jfrs, Hughes, went to the Conway
Bultdlngv where Republican headquarters
has been established. The public reception
was held In tha rotunda of the hotel at
noon. This afternoon Mr, Hughes is being
taken about the city by the Recepton Com-
tnlttee. After tne uonsaum epeecji iuiukui
the candidate will leave.for St. PauL
Mr. Hughes in the first set speech of
his transcontinental trip at , Detrojt last
plght assailed the Administration vigorously
for its foreign policy, Jts Mexican policy,
for appointing men whom he terms inex
perienced to diplomatic posts and for what
he characterizes as "a raid upon tha civil
service of the United States."
"He kept "8 out of war" ur. Hughes
said, referring to the President and a Dem
ocratic campaign slopn. '.'Yet we. seized
Vera Cruz. That was war very ignoble
war. And it was called war over the bodies
of those dead soldiers ; it was called a war
of service.
"Tails about what Is your policy. What
Is the President's ppllcy does any one
know! Has tha Executive ever had a, policy
for more than six months on the Mexican
Question I repeat: Wuo knows today
what tho policy of the Administration will
ba three months bencat My friends, the
troublo K Uiat w AJmt1tU,'n a3
- alUie4 eayas Jw-ftiwas, 9w
222SSSKj7
PENITENT CARMEN,
QUITTING STRIKE,
FIND JOBS TAKEN
Number of Men Apply for
Old "Work After One
Day Holdout
SIX ARE ARRESTED
Developments of the Day
in Alleged Car Strike
NUMBERS of striking carmen re
turn voluntarily and nsk to be
reinstated:
Police guards nt carbarns, power
houses and junction points reduced
by half.
Superintendent of Police Robin
son, after tour of barns, declares
there never really was a strike.
President Flynn, of tho Amalga
mated Union, and National Organ
izer Shea still maintain that striko
will materialize.
Numerous desertions in- the ranks of tlie
trolley strikers today by motormen and con
ductors who returned voluntarily to their
respective carbarns gave tha trolleymen's
walk-out tho appearance of a lost cause.
Superintendent of Police Robinson, after
a tour of the various carbarns, ordered the
police guard at the barns, tho power plants
and the Important trolley junction points
reduced by one-half on account of tha In
creasing evidence that the strike is a failure.
"There never really was a strike. It's
all a flivver," was the terea comment of
Robinson when ha returned from his in
spection tour.
At the Eleventh and Lucerne streets
barn, where 64 ,bf the 1140 employes obeyed
the order to strike, more than a score re
turned today and asked M. L. Gordon, di
vision superintendent, to have them rein
stated. At the Richmond barn two of tha 12
strlke'rs returned ana applied to William P.
Cornell, division, superintendent, for rein
statement, and .at several other barns one
or more of the mtn formally asked to be
taken on.
Up to the present time none of the men
who returned have been taken back by the
company, the reason being given by the
various superintendents "that all cars are
running and there is no vacancies."
"NO VACANCIES."
In eaph case the district superintendents
took the names of the men and promised to
notify them what could be done in their
cases. The executive officers of the com
pany, It is understood, will make a formal
ruling this 'afternoon to apply to all who
have ' made a voluntary effort to return to
the company's Bervlce. x
Officials of tha transit company declare
that the return of the men presages the
rapid dslnteratIon of the whole strike
movement. To the riding public there was
no mora evidence today of a strike than
there was yesterday, Tho cars were run-
, Continued ea Vie Two, Column Koor
$25,000 REWARD FOR CURE
R, T. Crane, Jr., of Chicago, Makes
Offer in Paralysis Plague
NEW YORK, Aus. 8. Mayor Mitchel has
received word from Richard T. Crane, Jr.,
wealthy Chicago manufacturer, that he will
give 125,000. to the physician who devises
the best cure for Infantile paralysis. The
cure can be offered at any time within a
year.
Mr. Crane telegraphed the announcement
to the Mayor's, office from Jefferson, N. H.,
last night
N. J, Lieutenant Killed; in Accident
BOUGIAS, ArL. Aug. 8. Lieutenant
James Connell. Fourth Regiment of New
Jersey, died at Calumet Hospital. He suf
fered a broken Ug and internal injuries
whan an automobile swept him and Lieu
tenant Harry Wrisht off a trolley car last
M. 1
PHILADELPHIA TUESDAY, AUGUST 8, 191G.
HEAT KILLS FOUR;
OFFERS NO RELIEF
Two Philadelphians Die.
Camden County Woman
and Man Victims
MERCURY CLIMBS TO 92
Today's Temperatures
Today
Midnight 80
Tealerd&sr
79
78
77
7G
, 76
70
77
78
78
81
84
88
90
90
90
91
90
92
1 a.
2 n.
3 a.
4 a.
6 a.
m.
m
m
79
79
78
78
77
77
79
80
83
85
88
90
91
91
92
92
79
ill .
m
m. ......
0 a.
7 a.
m.-
8 a.
9 n.
m
m
10 a.
m
11 a. m.
Noon
1 p. m
2 p. m
8 p. m
4 p. m
Humidity, 8 a. m.
Four deaths nnd three prostrations were
today's toll of tho continued heat wave.
Two deaths and ono prostration wcro re
ported In this city. In Camden County,
two deaths wcr announced by Coroner
Bush this morning. No great relief is
promised by tho Weather Bureau, dcsplto
tho fact thnt tho forecast mentions prob
able showers and thunderstorms tonight
and Wednesday. If It ratnB tonight' tho
mercury Is expected to tako n slight drop
tomorrow, but It is expected to remain bo
tween SO nnd 90 degrees for several days.
Tho dead arc:
Harry Rowland, 62 years old, 712
Richmond street.
Thomas Hnckorty, 4B years old, Hem
burger street nnd Snyder avenue.
Mrs. Frances Button, 47 years old,
Eversham road, Ashland, N. J.
Domlnlck Golslng, 23 years old, 173S
Master street, Camden, N. J.
Prostrations: '
John Stralter, 30 years old, of 2700
South Front street.
Clarence Shcetz, 20 years old, of
1314 North Thirty-second Btrcet.
Samuel Swan, 6122 Falrhlll Btrcet.
Rowland, who was employed as a Utter
up at Cramp's Shipyard, was overcome
whtlo heating a plate on tho side of a ship
about S .o'clock this morning. Ho reeled
from tho scaffold, falling 30 feot. Ills head
struclc a hugo timber. Rowland, It Is said,
wns compelled, to otop work yesterday ow
ing to heat sickness.
VISITED DYING BISTER.
At Rowland's homo it was learned from
his wife that last evening ho visited his
sister-in-law, Mrs. Elizabeth Elwell, at 1570
Enst Hewson street. Mrs. Elwell had been
111 for some time and Is In a dying condition.
Rowland is quoted as having said to his
wlfo last night:
"I think I will go over and Visit Eliz
abeth this evening. I may never have an
opportunity of seoing her alive again."
Following the visit ho went to a tailor and
was measured for a black suit, believing
that Mrs. Elwell had but a short while to
live. ,
Rowland had been employed for 38 years
as a (ltter-up at Cramp Shipyard. He Is
survived by a wife and one son, Harry
Rowland, Jr., an engineer attached to Fire
Engine Company No. 30. at Holmesburg.
Tho other victim In this city, Thomas
Hackerty, was found by Policeman Wilson,
of the Fourth street and Snyder avenue
station this morning lying on a doorstep at
Seventh and Shunk streets. Believing the
the man to be 111, Wilson summoned the
patrol wagon and Hackerty was removed to
the Mt. Slnal Hospital, where he was pro
nounced dead.
Mrs. Button was proitrated at her home
yesterday afternoon. Physicians say that
the continued heat today brought about her
death.
Domlnlck Goldlng, after eating a heavy
meal last evening, suffered from acute In
digestion. A physician was summoned and
Goldlng showed marked Improvement a few
hours later. This morning he complained
of the heat. The physician returned to the
man's home and found him beyond medical
aid. Coroner Bush Issued' a certificate of
death caused by heat.
C.CRESS0NWISTAR,SR.,
RETIRED OIL MAN, DIES
Was Member of Old Philadel
phia Family German
town Resident
C, Cresson Wistar, Br., a retired business
man and member of one of the oldest fam
ilies of this city, died early today. C, Cres
son Wlstar, Jr.. a bond broker, his son, is
hastenlpg homeward from Plattsburg, N, Y.,
in what has become an Impossible race to
the bedside of his father.
Mr, Wistar, who was 70 years old, was
for many years engaged In the oil business.
He lived at 5355 Knox street, Germantown,
and was connected, by descent or marriage,
with most of the pioneer families of that
suburb. His ancestors were members of
the Society of Friends and dated their
residence in Philadelphia to the days of
Penn and Pastorlus.
Born in this city in 1546, the son of
Bartholomew Wyatt and Annabella Cresson
Wlstar, he was educated at Haverford Col
lege. His wife. Mary Emlen Wlstar. died
about elsht ytars ago. Bartholomew WlSt
tar, a resident of Cleveland, Ohio, and the
late Plllwyn Wlstar. of this city, were
brothers. Ttuee children survive Mr. Wi
tar. They are Frederick Vaux Wlstar.
Elizabeth Vaux Wlstar and C. Cresson Wls
tar. Jr.
Mr. Wlstar was secretary of Howard
Hospital, and his tlma, following his re
tirement from active business, was largely
devoted to the work of that institution.
He was a member of Calvary Episcopal
Church, Manhelra street and Pulaski ave
nue. Funeral cervices will be conducted by
tha clergy of that congregation, and will
be held oa Friday, if Mr. Wlstar, Jr,
reaches. th ctty by ttiat Jim
QUICK NEWS
V
IRISH AVIATORS FALL INTO ASIATIC AND DROWN
BERLIN, Aug. 8. Ah Irish airship fell Into the Adriatic near
tho island of Lissn from a great height nnd the entire crew was
drowned, according to an official statement from the Austrian Ad
miralty received here today. An Austrian torpedoboat went to.tnr
rescue as the flaming airship descended but found only debris.
28 KILLED IN PETROGRAD FOOD RIOTS
BEltlilN, Aug. 8. A dispatch to tho OversenB'Agency reports
that 28 persons Wcro killed and moro than a hundred wounded during
food riots in Petrogrnd.
3829 RIFLES SEIZED IN IRISH UPRISING
LONDON, Aug. 8. Homo Secretary Herbert Samuel announced
today lit Commons that 820 rifles wore seized by the Britlb'h military;
authorities during and sinco tho Sinn Tclu uprising in Ireland,
BRITISH HOLD UP GRAIN SHIPS, DUTCH CHARGE
BERLIN, Aug. 8. Tho Dutch newspaper Nlcuwo Bottcrdamscho
Courant charges that tho British aro holding up ships laden with
wheat and com from tho United States to Holland because Ihe ship
ments wore made by firms on the British blacklist. Tho Courant
declares that if Holland accepts this action without protest her Inde
pendence after the wnr is doomed.
RUSSIAN REPLY TO SWEDEN'S PROTEST UNSATISFACTORY
BERLIN, Aug. S, A Stockholm dispatch to the National Ti
defwe, of Copenhagen, says that Russia's reply tq Sweden's protest
against violation of her territorial waters is unsatisfactory, according
to nn item given out by the Overseas News Agency today.
GRAND CIRCUIT RACES POSTPONED
PITTSBURGH, Aug. 8. Tho Grand Circuit ,races were again
postponed today; on account of rain.
ROADS AND MEN CONFER AFTER BIG STRIKE VOTE
NEW YORK, Aug. 8. About 94por cent of tho railway trainmen affiliated with
tho four brotherhoods have voted In favor of a striko unless tho demands for an
eight-hour day und tlmo and a half for overtlmo wero granted, it was formally
announced today at the Joint conference after tho vote had been tabulated. Tho
count represents tho decision of about 400,000 railway employes of 225 roads with
a-'ulleago'trf-about 250,000,' 6r' virtually every lino In tho tihlted "States. After
listening to tho result of tho vote Ellsha Lee, representing1 tho railroads, was asked
by A. B. Garrotson, representing tho employes, whether ho had a definite proposi
tion. Ho replied ho had no authority to make any offer of any kind. Tha confer
ence will continue tomorrow.
BURLESON PROPOSES CUT IN POSTAL RATE
WASHINGTON, Aug. 8. Postmaster Goneral Burleson today announced his
purposo to make 2 cents carry a letter from anywhere in tho United States to any
where in the Western Hemisphere. Other countries affected bolnp; willing. It is
proposed that tho rato from Philadelphia to Patagonia be no more than from Phlla
dcXjhla to Baltimore. Mr. Burleson said it was probable tho cut would be made
sorno timo In September by the United States and tho other countries would be per
mitted to follow tho example whenever they should desire.
TELEGRAPHERS MAY STRIKE FOR 8-HOUR DAY
CHICAGO, Ai.g. 8. Possibility of a general telegraphers strike August 15 Is
seen in an "announcement received hero from W, B. Roberts, president of tho
Kansas City local of ;- telegraphers' union, that many Western cities have re
ported agreement to demand an eight-hour day and higher pay. Officials of the
union in Chicago declined to deny reports that a refusal of their demands would
result in a strike.
GERMANS RUSH WAR MATERIAL TO WEST FRONT
AMSTERDAM, Aug. 8. German military trains aro passing through Mons
night and day, says the Echo de Beige, transporting enormous amounts of materia.
The Mons station was bombarded by a squadron of French aviators last week.
SENATE ADOPTS ARMY BILL REPORT
WASHINGTON, Aug. 8. Without a rollcall tho Senate "today adopted tho
conference report on the army appropriation bill. As finally adopted the bill carries
1267,000,000. Tho conference report now goes to tho House for concurrence.
.... MEXICO CONSENTS TO BROAD U. S. INQUIRY
WASHINGTON, Aug. 8. The first direct notice that Mexico is willing to include
broader subjects than military matters in the coming peace conference was given
to Acting Secretary of State Polk today by Mexican Ambassador Arredondo, He
told Polk tho de facto Government desired merely that the military status be put
ahead of other matters, because of "the more Immediately pressing" nature of the
army question. The Cabinet today discussed Carranza's latest proposal.
SUBMARINE BREMEN REPORTED SUNK
BERNE, Aug. 8. The Berlin Tageblatt announces that the German submarine
Bremen, which was to have arrived at an American port, has been' sunk through an
accident to her machinery, according to a disDatch received here this afternoon.
STANDARD OIL AGAIN CUTS "GAS"
NEW YORK, Aug. 8. The Standard Oil Company of New York today announced
another gasoline price cut. The price to garages is now 23 cents; to consumers 25.
The company's biggest business Is done in New York State and New England.
BALTIMORE ITIRM MAY BE COLLECTING BREMEN CARGO
WASHINGTON, Aug. 8. -The Eastern Forwarding Company, the company
which loaded the German submarine Deutschland in Baltimore for her trip, la
shipping large quantities of nickel and rubber to a New England port, it was
learned here In official circles today, It' is believed to be cargo for the Bremen.
Officials refused to give specific Information.
CHILD LABOR TO PASS SENATE TODAY OR TOMORROW
WASHINGTON, Aug. 8. Indications are that the much-debated child labor
bill will be brought, to a vote in the Senate late today or early tomorrow. Its pas
sage is assured. Not more than 15 votes wilt tie cast against it, .according to lead
ers"predlctlons. CHILD PLAGUE FOES URGE "CLEAN UP" OF HUNTING PARK
An effort to have the municipal health authorities "clean up" Hunting Park
is being made by Forty-third Ward members of the Central Germantown Avenue
Business Men's Association, who have been aroused because of the belief that cases
of Infantile paralysis were due to conditions in the park. They have Issued a
statement, a copy of Svhich has been left with Director of Health Krusen, urging
that steps he taken to end the insanitary conditions In tfhe park.
M,.l fill I III. I V " " "' "" " 'I
CAMDEN ROOF COLLAPSES; BAKERS ESCAPE INJURY
The roof of the warehouse of the W. C. Davis bakery, 618 South Fifth Street,
Camden, collapsed and the front of the brick structure fell into the street early
today while CO bakers were at work at the ovens in the rear. They escaped injury.
There, were 12$ tons of flour on the second floor. That weight, with the loosening
of the .Umbers, by the beat from tha ovens, is believed to have, caused the coUipsc,
Constant, 1918, st inironuo Loots Commit.
PBIQJ3 ONE CEKT
PLAGUE CASES
HERE MOUNT TO
MORE THAN 100
llll II I I l
Rigid Quarantine Started by
City to Check Extension
of Paralysis
CAMDEN BOYS SENT BACK
Bill of Health as Guard
in Baby Paralysis Situation
GET n statement from your
family physician, saying that
your child, under 10, has not been
in contact with infantile paralysis.
Tako this certificate to R6om 712,
Bureau of Health, City Hall,' and it
will bo sub-signed by the authorities
there.
One-day certificates will be issued
to those going to the shore for ono
day. Tho destination must bo given,
and if the certificate is used to go
to another place, tho pnrcnts of tho
holder nre liable to prosecution.
All persons desiring to go out of
the State are advised to get the cer
tificates, for at any minuto a quar
antine against Pennsylvania may go
into effect.
People, whether Pcnnsylvnnians
or not, cannot come into this State
from any other without certificates
signed by the Bureau of Health of
the town from which they come,
A. Cotti, 10 months old, of 309 Col
lom street, died at noon today from
infantile paralysis. Ills Is the twenty
fifth death since the outbreak of the
epidemic
Coincident with the prescribing and ob
servance of a rigid quarantine at all rall
rond and ferry stations nnd highway ap
proaches to tho city, Philadelphia today
passed the 100th mark In tho number of
Infantile paralysis cases reported since
January 1. The 100th case was that of
Benjamin Locb, 3 years old, of 516 Plka
street, which is located In the Forty-third
Ward. The 101st case is that of A. CotU,
3'j years old, of 309 Collom street. His Is
the fifteenth caso reported In the last 24
hours. t
More than 1000-lnspectors are at work. In
an effort to, keep from tho State children
coming from New'Vork, New. Jersey, Dela--wae
or Maryland.-.- --.--
So effective has this quarantine become
that more than 200 Cnmdcn schoolboys who
work during tho summer months In this city
were turned back to Now Jersey this morn
ing after they had come to the. Philadelphia
side of the river, tho guards having dis
covered that these had no health certificates
showing them free of 'infantile paralysis
germs.
The vigilance of tho inspectors has been
Increased because of the 6 deaths' and IB
new cases reported here In the last 24
hours. Thus far today no deaths have
occurred. A woman of 41 years, Mrs. Debra
Clark, of 3439 Klpp Btreet, Is one of tha
last victims of the disease, and her case
Is puzzling physicians of the city, Chief
Medical Inspector Cairns declaring that he
had never before heard of the disease at
tacking any one of that comparatively ad
vanced age.
Mrs. Clark's affliction presents .another
phase of the quarantine, Inasmuch as now
only !hlldren under 16 years of age are
being barred from the city, whereas this
Instance shows again that persons above
that age not only can carry the germs, but
can fall victims to .them.
In an effort to 'meet the requirements
prescribed by the Philadelphia quarantine.
the Camden Board of Health remained In
session until midnight, and Issued approxi
mately 1000 certificate's, The boys turned
back this morning went to the Board of
Trade rooms, searching for Dr, J. F. Leavltt.
who was called upon to Issue papers neces
sary to their admittance to Philadelphia.
The quarantine has angered these boys.
Inasmuch as when turned back they had to
pay 3 cents additional for their transpor
tation to Camden.
CHILDREN IN TEARS.
Hundreds of children tearfully pleaded
with inspectors stationed at the ferry houses
on the Philadelphia side of the Delaware
River at Market, Chestnut, Vine and South
streets.
Many of the youngsters apparently were
not aware that a quarantine was in force.
They dli not know what to -make of the .
eagle-eyed Inspectors who, stationed on
each side of the ferry houses, had spotted
them on board Inbound boats almost before
the gangplank had been thrown down.
As each boat entered the slip a. row of
six or more Inspectors advanced toward
the vanguard of passengers who rushed to
disembark. Keenly they watched the chil
dren. Those who looked as though they
might b more than sixteen years old were
permitted to pass without question. Others
were stopped and detained.
"How old are yout" asked an inspector
of the suspect. Frequently the child gazed
at the man with frightened eyes. She did
not know what he meant Perhaps ha was
a kidnapper. The youngster struggled to
get free, but the inspector held on.
Finally the situation was explained and
If the youthful ferryboat passenger was b
low the necessary age he -or she was Miit
hack to thi Jersey side and forbidden to
cross into Pennsylvania until the, necessary
physician's certificate of good health wm
obtained.
Frequently Inspectors had diffloulty wMH
children who "either could not or would ot
understand tha sttuatien, May parnu
also were stubborn in tntr attemjiis t
Kkve children remain On tW Sd JT tit-
rlv&r without furaMtiag tha 'neeefcaary mt
UScate of good health. Tars. thrtatt nA
pleadings were of no avaJJ. Ju)vvr T.
qu&raftUm w strteUy aafwectd.
Oae t thnnt twUMNty iaeesyNAeBisad s
m
