ICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
T !NT Y-SE VENTII YL
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MdliNlNG, AUGUST 8, 1916
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 82
nn it
THE ARIZONA REFHT
Bj
IjERMAMS suffermor
17 A TVTTFVn TKTT1 TTiTTh THrVTTlTTTT
TOD A
ux a m w m urn a
BR TISH, FRENCH. RUSSIANS
. II IT1I IIN? MOTIM
Ill
5
Hughes Opens Campaign Attacking Administration
iiliTillS DEFENSE LEGISLATION NEARING COMPLE
r 7r
The Germans have Buffered further losses at the hands of the French
between trie Helm wood and the river Somme. losing there a line of their
trenches and 120 prisoners and 10 machine guns, and also in the Verdun
sector where the French made progress south of the Thiaumont work and
captured five machine guns and took some houses ir. the western part of the
villane of Fleury. After a heavy bombardment of tha British positions, thi
Germans launched violent infantry attacks north and northeast of Poiieres,
and at two p'aces succeeded in entering British trenches. Their success
was not long lived, for the British soon drove them out, inflicting heavy
casualties on them. ,
Amid continuous heavy rains which have turner! the country into a
fiuaqm're, the Russians are keeping up their stronq offensive against the
Teutons in northern Galicia and have pushed farther forward their lines
against them in tho Sereth and Graborki river cqions.
Also along the Stokhod rieer in Vo'hynia. naar the town of Zarecxe the
Russians have driven the Teutons from their trenches and occupied then.
tak,ng 12 effxers and 200 men prisoners and capturinq one machine gun in
the operation. 'In the Carpathians the Germans report the capture of two
peaks from the Russians.
Constantinople reports a series of pains for the Turks fightinq against
the Russians and Petroqrad admits at least one cf the claims, the Ru
ians have bern forced to retire under pressure to the region east o'
Kermanshap, Persia. An attack by the Russians north of Bukan, on tho
Persian front, was put down with heavy lofes to the Russians, acodinq to
Constantinople and in Turkish Armenia neir Piths and Mush the Russians
have ben put to flight and the Turks have taken from them positions the
Russians had previously occupied.
The latest reports concerning tho r.ttack of the Turks against the
British forces with the Suei canal their objective indicated that the Otto
man forces met with a reverse even more serious than was first chron
icled. Driven back eighteen miles into the desert, fighting near quard no
tions, they suffered heavy casualties and of their total for e of 14.000 lo?t
45 officers. 3.000 men made prisoners. They have now ben entirely cleared
from the Katia.-Umaishi basin.
Violent fightinq is in proqress betwee" the Austrian and Italians on
various sectors, and especially around the Goriria bridceheacl. on the Do
rdo plateau, and on the lower Isonzo river. Near Monte Sahotino anl
Monte San Michel, the Italians cant 'ire J advanced Austrian positions but
Vienna sys tne greater portion of these were later re-taken bv the Am-t-ians.
On the lower Isonzo. Rome reports the capture by the" Italians of
hill 85. which was held aqainst violent counter attacks.
TTHMWANTSTOKNOW
PRiF.ST ARRESTED
SHRIVING
WOMAN I
I NOG A I. US, Aug. 7. Father G.
I ( Vm Goetham, u catholic pries,.
with a parish here, was arrested
I unit detained when he crossed the
I Mexican border today to admin
t inter religious consolation to a
i Mexican woman, dangerously ill,
j by whom he had been summoned,
j luit obtained release noon after
i ward through the efforts o' '
I lilted States Consul Simpich at
I Nngales, Ariz. The priest Raid
I that lie was crossing the public
I plaza of the Mexican town when
arrested. He announced his in
tention of taking the case up with
Secretary Lansing.
I
n
?M FA FFnn
' UUI1I LJILLUUU
1 IT OFF UN
II W IIWIIlHki Wll
SB GLAUSES
i
1 1
u .
H TOOK GAR
STRIKE BROUGHT
SHOTS SEEM AIMED A T
AN AMERICAN OUTPOST
British Aviators
Concentrate Over
The Somme Front
TO SPEEDY Ei
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WITH THE BIctTISH ARMIES IN
FRANCE. Auk.. 7, (Via London! The
aviators felt Cie concussion 9.000 fee!
in the air when a brigade of British
aeroplanes bombarded Henin (north
east of Arras), with a shower of 112
Hiunit 1'iiiTiiW.
When the (German shops and store
house at Martimuich were ''-"d b"
incendiary bombs a vast pillar of
smoke from the conflagration rose a
heurht ol S.OIrfi f.et.
Tne work of the British aviators
recently has surpassed the widest
flietils of imagination. Aerial flights
which attracted general attention are
nlv an incident of the offensive
tampiagn. Overwhelming, numbers of
planes are concentrated on the nar
row front of the Somme battle in
co-ordination with a superior volume
of gunfire. The planes move in larg
er and larger flotillas and there have
been cases with a dozen engaged in
battle on either side.
Th" German first line and second
line tret.ches. headquarters billets and
supply depots of all kinds have been
bomlied. the aerial offensive being
limited -jnly by the nt-mbcr of nWr.es
and the :up,lv of bombs. Not a vil
lage occupied by the Germans in the
neighborhood of the. front that has
not bad lti aerial bombardment, ac
cording to accounts. Barges and
motor trucKs have been set on fire;
cine moving train was blown up.
The rlrv - official accomns of the
aviation ctps and their aviators' re
veal a number of amazing feats every
da; . A pilot desciiuesan aviation
xperi?nro thus:-
"! first a'lacked a Rolland. but find
ing a Kokker behind, turned and
maneuvered under his tail. He fired
on drum at very close range, and
tne 1-okKer nose-dived and went down
with a spin." .
If it had gone down direct, it would
liave been a "crasher."
Germans Fail to
Carry Out Order
To Take Hill 160
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS, August 7. A dispatch to I -a
Liberie dated North of France, says:
"The Germans yesterday furiously
counter attacked positions taken the
day before by he British north of
I'ozieres. An order had been given to
the units in the I'ozieres sector to re
take from the British, at whatever
cost. Hill 160. as shown by the order
of the day issued by General von
lieulow and read to the troops yester
day. The order read:
" 'We must at all price regain pos
session of the I'ozieres plateau, which,
if it remains in the hands of the British,
would give them a precious advantage.
Attacks will be led by successive waves.
Troops which first gain footing on the
Troopswhich first Kain footing on the
plateu must remain there and awajj
necessary reinforcements at whatevt."
loss there may be. An office" or man
who fails to resist, even unto death on
the conquered ground, will be sum
moned Immediately before a court mar
tial.' "A number of copies of this docu
ment were taken from prisoners. Two
divisions participated in the heavy at
tack. "The Australians again covered
themselves with glory. ( me regiment
which occupied advanced trenches to
the left of the Bapaume road on the
edge of the plateau, gave proof of mag
nificent heroism in resisting the a
saults there of Bavarian and Saxon
regiments, holding out stoically under
a deluge of shot and shell and yielding
not an inch of ground. The regiment
sustained appreciable losses, but its
courageous resistance enabled the Eng
lish commander to make the necessary
dispositions to check the German coun
ter offensive.
"All enemy attacks against Hill 160
and the I'ozieres mill were repulsed.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 7. National
defense legislation in congress is ap
proaching completion. Today the con
ference 'committee on the navy ap
propriation bill submitted a complete
agreement and the conferees on the
naval bill voted to disagree on the
big construction program and person- j
nel increases, the only remaining 1
points of dispute In that measure, so
that the Issues might be referred bark
for quick settlement by the two
bouses. Members of the house who
are away on Natation, will be called
back to Washington next week, for
a vote on the building and personnel
sections of the naval bill.
President Wilson, navy department
officials and other adequate defense
champions of the administration, are
expected to make a determined effort
to induce house leaders to yield to the
senate .program for construction of
iii vessels, eight of them to ie capital
ships during 1X17. The house provided
Republican A. P. Leased WlreJ
EL PASO, Aug., 7. From fifteen to
twenty shots were fired tonight on the
Mexican side of the " border.
seemed to bo aimed at an American
out post just outside the limits of Kl
j.-iso. according io a report made to ;;hnrt
military neanquariers bv Lieutenant I said it vorld be difficult
li. B. Lewis, commanding the pro-I tin. truth .if tiie Mexic o
osi guara. i ,
they were aimed at the American side.
The Massachussetts commands on
guard duty along this section check-
which th'-ir men tonight and account
ed for all. Owing to thirty thousand
men being stationed here, some of
v bom are on detached duty or on
leave, the military authorities
to get at
woman's
Infemelit II. it I vi-o A ....!, ,. t..l
officers are now investigating also diet's, cms feci the line
a statement by a woman living in .A stil Hater report of rifle shots on
that neighborhood, that late this aft- Mexican territory came from Ameri
ernoon she saw two men. obviously enn patrols this time to the west in
American soldiers, cross into the small stead of the east of -El Paso Seven
, piece ol Mexican territory lying north shots were heard.
jof tlie river. . Although the officers at the Juarez
Mexican military authorities dis- headquarters professed to know noth-
v,, niv liiKinieoKe 01 i ne incirieni. ing or the firing. Central Gonzales
About two hours after the firing, bad said todav that he was sending
oirtposts stationed a mile further down ot men to take the three deserters
the r,ver sent in word that they had from the Tames band, said to be re
just heard five shots on the Mexi- turning afoot to Juarez with u vieo,
to surrender
SOMETHING OE
can side, but could not say whether
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. August 7. The strike
on the surface railway lines here, which
threatened to extend to the subway
and elevated systems and thus com
pletely tie up transiMirtation facilities
in Greater New York, virtually came I for only five capital ships. If it votes
to an end tonight.
Iiirectors of the New York Railways
company and the Third Avenue Rail
way company, the two principal lines,
voted off the deadlock for twelve hours
to accept a plan of settlement pro
posed by Mayor Mitchell and Oscar S.
Strauss, chairman of the public ser
vice commission, after representatives
of the strikers had agreed to it. It
was then announced that normal ser
vice would be resumed tomorrow
morning on the lines which ratified the
agreement.
One of the chief concessions gives
to the employes the right to organize,
which was the Issue, the strike leaders
said, they were determined should be
fought to the end.
The companies agreed to treat with
grievance committees of their em
ployes irrespective of the fact that they
may belong to a union. Wages will be
arbitrated also.
"The settlement between employes
..and officials of the New York Rail- !
ways comimny and the Third Avenue
Railway company makes it inevitable
that the other lines must settle their
differences," declared Mayor Mitchell.
Officials of the Second Avenue rail
roud. the Richmond Light & Power
company, and the New York & (Jueet.s
County company were invited by
Mayor Mitchell to meet with him and
Mr. Strauss tomorrow morning to con
sider measures to end the strike on
these lines.
Although the agreement reached
concedes the right of the employes to
organize, the union is not recognized by
the company. President Theodore
P. Shonts issued a statement calling
on the strikers to "let bygones be by
gones and get to work, giving New
York the best street railroad service in
the world."
to insist on its original provisions, it
is said the senate conferees will offer
to give up the three year continuing
program in the senate bill, as an in
ducement to house leaders to recon
sider und accept the big program for
the first year.
Agreement was reached by the con
ferees on administrative features of
the personnel section, but tbev could
not get together on the question of
the increases in the enlisted strength.
The administration is anxious that the
larger senate authorizations in this
section also be accepted. .The senate
provided for a total enlisted strength
of 7,!ii(), and the house for onlv
61. (""I.
Secretary. Daniels' pian for promo
tion of navy officers by selection, in
stead of by seniority was accepted, but
was so amended that it would not ap
ply to officers lower than the rank of I
commander. Provision is mad" for a
board of nine admirals to pass on pro
motions and six must agree in each
case. It also was agreed that cap
tains whu are not promoted before
reaching the age of ",7. shall be re
tired, ami that commanders not pro
moted, be retired at ITi, and lieutenant
commanders at 40. The conferees
also raised the general retiring age
limit from to tit.
Senator Chamberlain will call up the
army appropriation report in the sen
ate tomorrow. The bill as agreed on.
TIIREMEH
OE TIES DAI
BACK II JUAREZ
DEMOCRATS TO
m CI AM
IN SEPTEflER
Republican A, P. i.ezsed Wire
LI- PASO. Aug. 7. Two more men
of .he band of Mariano Tames, which
lef. Juarez Saturday with the an
hu ineed Intention of joining Villa, t -niuir.
arrived in Juarez and surren
dered to General Francisco Gonzales.
They said that Tames, closely pur
sued by government cavalrymen, was
aci omn.iiiied by but four men when
they left. Stories current in EI Paso
that Tames is at the head of a new
revolutionary party generally were the president, and remained with him
oisrreimeo nere as were rumors tnat lour hours e-i:ig over minutely the
( arranza soldiers had entailed the c.-.rr.nnir,, ,a vcv.;i .... .i...l
set for the notification ceremonies,
'h'iirm;m Mi'lVirmiit waid tonight
Heavy rains falling today over Chi- that if -on?t-es rem.iined in
! i.'alma brought a promise of relief ;,fter September 1. notification misht
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug 7. A decision
to launch the democratic national
campaign soon alter September 1 re
gardless of whether congress still is
in session then, was reached at a
conference today between President
Wiison. Vance c, M.-Cormick, chair
man of the democratic national com
mittee, and Homer S. Cummings. the
committee's vice chairman. The two
democratic leaders took lunch with
band and lost heavily near Samalayu
ca early today.
I
to some of tiie famine-swept districts
of the state. Mexican authorities in
Juarez pointed out that with two or
three more h"avy falls shurtly crops
will be given an impetus such as will
alleviate In a large measure the dis-1
tress or tne peons. Private advu es . sp-ak in v irions parts of the rour:--here
indicated also that several car- j were considered at the conference to'
lo.i.is of foodstuffs from the border lav. Mr Wilson will make no defin-
na. e reacrea toe rarra district ' ie e,c ,.r,-,on, v,,.., ,,a
ako place hefore adjournment. I'nder
such circumstances the president will
go to Shadow Lawn, N. J., for the
occasion and return immediately af
terward to Washington.
Invitations sent to the president
v. here suffering was most acute.
I as;;enger? reaching the border
from Chihuahua City said that Gen-
o
UITTLE ILLNESS AMONG TROOPS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Aug. 7. With 30,00(1 state
and regular troops encamped here.
the enemy sustaining serious losses. medical reports show less than three
The Germans sent forward three strong;
(Continued on Page Two)
FARM LOAN BOARD IS FORMALLY
:. , ORGANIZED HS1GT0H
per cent of sickness, General George
Bell, Jr., commanding the El Paso
military district, announced tonight.
He added that the showing is remark
able, anything under five per cent
generally being accounted good, and
said that the national guardsmens'
record Is as good as that of the regu
lars. -
JAP. VICE ADMIRAL DEAD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire 1
WASHINGTON. Aug, t Organiza
tion of the new farm loan boarn,
which Is to administer the new rural
credit system, was perfected here to
day with the Introduction Into office
of its four appointive members, the
designation by President Wilson of
an executive head and the selection
of a secretary. The board will meet
again tomorrow to consider how it
may be best to obtain information on
which to base its first Important worn
division of the country into twelv
land bank districts with a federal land
bank in each. 1
President Wilson named George W. '
Norris as farm loan commissioner or!
executive head of the board. The oath
of office was administered to Mr. Nor-1
Tim ami f' I? I rl.H,.ll llArkapl fl,,irb!
and W. S. A. Smith, the ether appoint
ive members in the office of Secre-
Rrpubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
TOKIO. August 8 Vice Admiral Hi-
1 konojo Kamimura, of the Japanese
I navy, is dead.
ary for Its trip to the Pacific coast' Vice Admiral Kamimura, who was 67
and went over the application and ' year" "J"1' wa", "e ,f the m0!,t "fm:
, . . , HIT I II llllt,(in ri LliC iiai'anrnTT 1 1 ,y '
recommendations for forty citiesjor commander in chief of the second
federal loan banks. No route for the squadron he played an important part
trip wa made, but it is probable the In the Russo-Japanese war and is be-
board will go west through northern lieved to have led in the naval assault
states and return to Washington with the British squadron against the
through the south. Hearings will be German base at Tsing Tao, China, In
held in Wa.dngton also. 1914.
General Tievino's duties. The arrivals
r.d.Icd that with the recent proclama
tion from General Carranza that of
ficial regulation of price In cunnc'
tioa vvilh the use of paper money is
no longer necessary, commercial con-
(Continued on Pago Five)
carried $27.57.. or ISS.OfM'.OOn
excess of the house bill. A report !' a',:'a y of the northeast.
had been delayed several days while
the war department mane an unsuc
cessful effort to induce the four con
ferees to recede from their insistence
on the Hay amendment, makirg re
tired officers exempt from provisions
of the military code.
Among the big army appropriations
as agreed are: Kor aviation. Jl 3.281, -fififi:
pay for officers of the line $10.
niiu.iiOO: transportation. J.'S.ooO.oiiO:
rlothlng, $20.2x.o.(ioo; subsistence, ?2J.
000. 000: 'ordnance stores and ammuni
tion, jio.oon.oiio, of which $ri.0"o,ooo
shall be expended for purchase of
munitions, the remainder to be used
for manufacturing ordnance stores
and supplies. $,500,000; armed motor
cars. jriOO.OOO. reduced from $1,000,
000; field artillery and ammunition for
national guard, $20,000,000, reduced
from $2.200,0n: for automatic ma
chine rifles, $12,OC(i.O'0, reduced from
$i:,,(!iio,ooo.
For training camps, such as that nt
Pittsburg, the bill appropriates J2.
000.000, a rednetmn from $4.Ho0 .000 In
the senate bill. An appropriat ion of
$4'i0,000 in the senate bill to reim
burse the state of New Y'ork for ex
pense in mobilization of the national
guard, was stricken nut. A $2,000,ftoo
appropriation is included in the bill as
agreed to. for relief of dependent
families of guardsmen and enlisted
men.
rate for the ad inurnment of congress
is agreed on. He already has prom
ised to so to Hodgensville, Ky.. Sep-
ej Watching Along the Coast
for the Submarine Bremen
Plans, i:,l exercises niiiI iie mnde ;i tentnlive
leave late in the week for Mexii o encasement to v isit St r imir. Ron.
City where be will confer with Car- (ember 10. 20 or 21 to address an
ranza on the industrial rehabilitation erg iniation of underwriters. The
of northern Mexico. Dining bis ab-1 Hodgensville speech, however, will be
Hence, winch w ill be for a ', erlod of j on a non-nr.miral rhara-ter
about two months. It ha-s been an-; Chairman McCormick said he plan
nonced. Colonel Lopez Oitiz, chief of . ncd to have the democratic campaign
r.rms of the garrison, will assumoiin f.,11 winz hv Seotember 15. Mr.
( timmings. who if: chairman of the
speakers bureau at democratic na
tional headquarters, told the president
of the prom-ess made in assigning
speakers to the various states.
It was definitely determined th.'t
(Continued on I'asre Five)
TATEFEDERATIOSOFEABDR
SIS IH
(Special to The Republican)
Tl'CSON, Ariz., Aug. 7. The open
ing sessiVin of the Arizona State Fed-
Fails to Take
Oath and Court
Finds Him Gu il ty
I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMHl'S, N, M.,- Aug. 7.--l.ewis
o. Gardiner, a private of the First
New Mexico infantry, today was found
guilty on a charge of failing to sub
scribe to the federal oath which
would muster him into the service of
the United States with his company
June 14 last, after a trial before a
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ng the afternoon, a thick fog moved
PORTLAND, Maine, Aug. 7. Kvcry 1 in from the sea and made extended
point along the Maine coast watched '. observations Impossible.
tary McAdoo who Is ex-officlo a mem-j sharply today and tonight for two Tho navy department announced
ber and chairman. Mr. McAdoo made , tubmannes believed to he foreign vcs-lthnt no American submersible were
a brief speech, pointing out that the sels anil possibly the long expected ! off the Maine coast.
farm loan act whs the first legisl.t- Gormarf merchantman Bremen and a I Information from reliable sources general court martial here. The ver
tion to provide flnanrial aid for farm-1 consort. The strange crafts were no-' that no British submarines were diet, together with the. recommenda
ers on long time and easy terms en 'tired for miles off the coast, and close i cruising In these waters, seem to j tlotis of the board, which were not
acted since the foundation of .the gov-J to Canadian waters by a roast guard crcnte the impression in the minds of i made public, was forwarded to the
ernment and declaring It meant more lookout, hut no word had. reached herotmarty marine observers that the ) secretary of war by Lieutenant Col
Jirosperity for the farmer and more in . tonight to bear out the emphatic dec-! firrmen was dodging about close to j oml George E. Stockle, president,
consequence for everybody else lata' ion from that station that they the three mile limit, preparing to slip I Through his attorney, Captain John
At a short session afterward, W. VV. ; were undersea craft and were preced- into Boston. C. Watson, Gardiner made a plea for
Klannagan of Montclair, N. J., was , ing at top speed toward the west. The! Another possibility considered was j clemency, but declined to reconsider
chosen secretary of the board. Mr. ; vigil along the coast extended as farj'.hnt the coastguard crew might have his refusal to take the oath. Major
Flannagan has been secretary of (he east as Halifax, N. S , and St. Johns, I seea the Deutschland, driven out of P.lunlon Wlnshlp, representing tiie
Joint commission which Investigated 1 N. T!., both of which ports reported 1 her course, or else sticking closely to government, argued that if Gardiner
rural credits in Europe and drafted that British naval auxiliaries had no shore. Captains of Incoming craft re- was allowed to go free, the case might
the present low. Information regarding the presence of J ported that they had not seen any . have a bad effect upon future national
.The board also Ciscuased the Itlner-lthe submarines in these waters, ttur-submarine, , guard enlistments.
cration of Labor was held here today
111 t'.agle s Hall, with an enthusiastic
reception to Governor Hunt, who de
livered an address creditable , for its
frank, earnest and conservative state
ments which clinched more firmly the
friendship and support of organized
labor throughout the state. The re
ports of the president and secretary
show a gain of over seven thousand in
membership and an improved financial
condition during tne last, and a
promise of greater gains in the com
ing year. There are about one hun
dred delegates who appear to know
what they need and how to go about
getting it. There is considerable work
cut out for, the convention to do am"
tho balance of the week will hardly
see it Iinished.
The convention is the largest ever
held by the organization. The report
of committees, ' the introduction of
resolutions and a few short talks from
Judge John McBrlde of phoenix and
others, took up the greater part of the
1 the Arizona federation of Labor, all
discussion of the prohibition question
was tabooed hy a unanimous vote,
when a Globe local offered a resolu
tion pledging the federation's support
of the local option measure to be ini
tiated at the November state election
Aside from the preliminaries of or
ganization of the federation no other ac
tion was taken today and-the conven
tion devoted itself to 'hearing an ad
dress by Governor G. W. P. Hunt. An
other resolution offered was to pledge
the federation to refrain from endors
ing the candidac" of any candidate in
the November state election. No ac
tion vas taken on this resolution.
afternoon, when adjournment was
taken until tomorrow morning. There
are many visitors in the city and the
different party candidates for office
are circulating cards, smiles and hand
shakes. Because of this and the de
lightful and refreshing rain this after
noon, everybody is cheerful and happy
tonight.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DETROIT. Mich., Aug. 7. Charles ,
E. Hughes in the first set speech of
his trans-continental trip tonight as
sailed the administration vigorousry
for its foreign policy, its Mexican -policy,
for appointing men whom he
termed inexperienced to diplomatic
posts, and for wha,t he characterized
as "a raid upon the civil service of
the United States."
"He kept us out of war," Mr.
Hughes said, referring to the presi
dent and democratic campaign slogan,
"Yet he seized Vera Cruz. That was
war very ignoble war. And it was
called war over the bodies of those
dead soldiers; it was called a war of
service.
"Talk about what is your policy.
What is the president's policy does
anyone know? Has the executive ever
had a policy for more than six
months on the Mexican question? I
repeat, who knows today what the
I policy of the administration will be
three months since: My friends, the
trouble is that this administration has
written such a record that no matter
what it says, you do not know whether
it will stick to it.
"We have had an exhibition during
the past three years, which, I confess,
fills me with a deep sense of shame.
1 have not a particle of militaristic
spirit in my system, but if I am elected
president, I will see to it that Ameri
cans rights in Mexico are respected."
Mr. li utiles assailed the administra
tion's course toward upholding Ameri
can rights abroad during the Euro
pean war.'
"When I say that I am an American'
citizen," the nominee said, "1 ought
to sa"y the proudest thing that any
man can say in this world. But you
can't have that pride if American cit-
izenry is a cheap thing, if it is not
wortiby of protection this wide world
over. There is no -man who could suc
cessfully present to an American com
munity the platform of an American
citizen's right, stop at the coast line
and that beyond that, American life
is to be the prey of any marauder that
chooses to take it."
The nominee cited the republican
platform declaring that 30,000 govern
ment positions had been taken from
the operation of the civil service law
during the present administration and
declared that "that sort of thing has
got to stop."
He told of an instance where, he
said, "an eminent scientist" in th
coast and goedetic survey, "a man of
very eminent rank," had been "dis
placed to make room for an excellent
stock breeder and veterinary surgeon."
The federal trade commission, Mr.
:Iughes charged "was fairly emascu
lated with the law by the men, for
the most part, who were appointed to
places upon it.
It was "inexcusable.' Mr. Hughes
asserted, for the administration to
take "in country after country in
Latin America, where we have fre
quently said we deisred to cultivate
the most friendly relations,' men In
the diplomatic service who "had rep
resented the country with credit and
had acquired an admirable and im
portant experience and put in men ut
terly inexperienced. Past adminis
trations, the nominee said, "had sinned
in that particular, but standards were
being made and there were men in
our service of long expeience and fine
training. Other appointments by the
president were assailed.
If we are to have a secretary of
state, Mr. Hughes declared, we want
a man who will stand before the world
as a man of learning, of skill, of ex
perience, of power."
Mr. Hughes also laid stress on what
he termed the need for industrial
brotherhood and closer co-operation
between employers and employes.
There was no capitalistic class, do
laboring class in prosperity, he said,
but the prosperity of the country or
its lack, affected all citizens. It be
hooved the men responsible for the
policies of the country, he said, to
look forward to the day when Europe.
at weace," would wage fierce commer
cial competition with America and to
guard American workingmen against
that time.
Alter his main address at Arcadia
Hall, Mr. Hughes delivered a second
address at the light guard armory in
which he reiterated many of the
statements made in the first address.
Mr. H"ghes spent a strenuous day
in the stifling heat of Detroit. He
marie six speeches between noon and
ten o'clock tonight. The first talk of
the dty was delirered in a little room
of the hotel which he made his head
quarters and which he addresed about
forty members, interested in the social
welfare of their employes. The sec-
( Continued on Page Five)
Hitchcock Unable to Leave
Hert Is Named Manager
TUCSON, Ariz., Aug. 7. At
opening session of the convention of I which said
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Aug. 7. A. T. Hert.
KentiicVy's member of the republican
national committee, will be manager
of the western branch of the; Hughes
campaign, with headquarters in Chi
cago, it was announced tonight by
National Chairman Wm. B. Wilcox,
after he had consulted party leaders
of the central slates.
In making the appointment, Chair
the man Wilcox gave out a statement,
"Mr. Frank H. Hitchcock had heen
permanently named in connection
with this work, but some few days
ago he informed methat he was not
only not ti candidate, but could not
under any. circumstances give the
time necessary for the work at the
western headquarters. Mr. Hitchcock,
however, has assured tne of his will
ingness and desire to assist in every
possible way in the work of the campaign.'"
