I pFoday's Metal Prices : ' ffX f AiV WW VtfVrt' ' ' 4 P. Bt CITY EDITION : II
I yorktat'- ;. i p 1 1 v ti I n II v 1 1 ri I ill J I ii pms I
B ( New York, Aug. 8. Silver, 66 1-2c; J J 9" V I" Ww' WEaThERUUH? . H
lend, $6.00; spelter, $8.50; copper, ff Va Locm Thunder Showers In North H
25.00; $27.00. V Jf mJ Portion Tonight or Wednesday; Cool- H Awlf,
v ; ar er In North Central Portion. I BbWBI
I J LJ , FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. ( . - . -- .
Frth Year-No. 189. Price Five Cents. QGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 8, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at th e Postofficc, Qgdcn, Utah" 1
in Candidacy for Governor I
! Italians Capture Gorizia Bridge j
I And Take 8,000 Prisoners,
i 9
hebce norafl ramooN
Advantage at Verdun for Time Being Rests With Germans;
I Allies Gain on the Somme Heavy Losses Inflicted on
I Germans Italians Pushing Ahead and Russians
; Continue Advances Against Central Powers.
London, Aug. 8,8:08 p. m. Prisoners are still surrender-
ing by the thousands as a result of the Italian operations, says
a Central News dispatch from Rome. More than 1 0,000 pris
oners have been captured in two days, the dispatch adds.
Rome, Aug. 8, via London, 7:45 p. m. The war office
today announced the capture of the Gorizia bridgehead by the
Italians. It is said the city is being shelled to drive out the Aus
trians. More than 8,000 prisoners were taken on August 6.
i The Gorizia bridgehead was one of
the most important defensive posi
; Hons of the Austrians along the Ison
j zo front. It was the scene of heavy
fighting in the early months of the
i war when the Italians after making
considerable advances were finally
! held up along the Isonzo line.
1 Gorizia is 22 miles northwest of
Triest,--one-'of the principal -objectives
at the Italian campaign and regarded
;- as the key to that position.
One of the first acts of the Italians
j after the war began was to throw a
strong force of infantry and cavalry
across the Austro-Hungarian frontier
V and occupy a Btretch of territory
? along the Isonzo. They captured sev-
eral towns but the Austrian positions,
i naturally strong, had been heavily
fortified and progress was slow. The
fighting along the Isonzo continued
'j. until December. Since that time there
has been only sporadic activity on
this front until within the last few
days.
On Friday of last week the Italians
opened a new attack, and although
) the authorities at Rome have permit
ted but few details to become known,
it has bee nintimated that an import
ant campaign was being launched.
The first notable results were ob
tained Sunday when Italian troops
made considerable progress in the
Monfalcone sector.
Gorizia is the principal city of the
Isonzo valley, with a population of
about 30,000.
Both at Verdun and on the Somme
front in northern France the oppos
ing armies are engaged in almost
continuous fighting. The advantage
,: at Verdun seems for the time being
i! to rest witbf the Germans, while along
, the Somme the entento forces appear
the decided gainers.
Paris today repoi-ts the success of
an operation conducted in conjunc
! tlon with the British north of the
Somme. While General Haig's forces
we're attacking at Guillemont the
French advanced eaBt of Hill 1JJ,
I north of Hardecourt.
"East of Trones wood the thrust b
; the British carried their lines for
ward at some places during the night
"Nearer the river, French troops
repelled two attempts by the Ger
mans to recapture trenches which tn(
( 'French took yesterday,
v At Verdun the Fleuryrhiaumont
m sector northeast of the fortress con
t tinues the scene of strong attack!
1( early today and the Germans succeed
ed in again gaining a footing in tin
Thiauraont work, which has changci
hands several times during the recen
battling. Elsewhere the Germans
were repulsed with heavy losses,
Paris- announces.
The offensive opened by the Ital-
lans along the Isonzo, where Gorizia '
is their objective is attracting re- J
newed attention to this field of war. 1
Several lines of entrenchments were
carried by the Italians in their initial
assaults, which also gained them 3600
prisoners, and Vienna admits that
the lost ground has been only partly
recovered. Latest reports from Rome
credit General Cadorna'B troops with ;
the capture of a number of additional' '
positions. (
' i
Petrograd, Aug. S, via London, 4:27 (
p. m. South of the Dnelster river In j ,
the direction of Tyszienca, the Rus-(.
sians have driven the Austro-German i
forces back along the whole line for i ,
a breadth of fifteen miles, it was of- ;
ficially announced by the Russian
war department today.
The announcement adds that the
Russians have captured the town of
Tlumach as well as the region to the
east of the Dneister river and the
ridge of heights there.
The total number of prisoners tak
en by the Russians in the battles on
the Sereth river, August 5 and Au
gust G, the official statement adds,
was 16G officers and S.415 men. The
Russians in this region are advanc
ing. Russian "cavalry, It Is stated, Is now
pursuing the Austro-Germans south
west of the Kolomea and Stanislau
railway in Gallcia.
Tho text of the statement says:
"On the river Sereth our troops
are advancing successfully and fortify
; ing themselves In captured positions.
; The total number of prisoners taken
in these battles from the fifth to the
sixth of August amounts tQ 1GG of-
! fleers and S.415 men. Four cannon,
19 machine guns, 11 trench mortars,
i a large number of mine throwers and
i much other war material was cap-
tured.
"On tho line of the river Stokhod,
in the region of the town of Stoby
' 1 chov, a party of Austrians left their
- defenses during the night and came
- forward with uplifted hands toward
3 the positions occupied by one of our
- regiments. The battalion commander,
3 Colonel Stepanenko, as he approached
the Austrians, was treacherously killed
. by them. Our riflemen killed the
- whole party of Austrians.
s "South of the Dniester our troops,
taking the offensive on a front of
e about 25 versts (15 miles) in the di
:1 rection of Tyszienca, broke into the
t enemy's trenches and engaged the
SO THE PEOPLE MAY WW
i That at this time the most prosperous period that Og-
f J den has ever enjoyed there are people in this community in
I want and distress. Not people who have received that position
through shiftlessness,.carlessness or extravagance; but people
of our best blood people of the heroic class who have let
fathers, sons and husbands their means of support go to
the front to protect their country .
Now it's up to the people of Ogden to take care of these
dependents until such time as government relief is offered
What are we going to do about it?
National Guard Benefit Fund Ogden Standard $50.00
a month for 12 months; Dr. Kanzler $2 00 a month for 12
: months; Methodist Sunday School, $5.00.; Oracle Theatre,
t $5.00 a month for 6 months ; A. W. Meek, $ 1 .00 ; C B. Sears
it $5.00; O, A. Parmley, $5.00; Dr. E. P. Mills, professional ,
j I ,service, $5.00. 'v
j '
enemy during the pursuit. Owing to
the irresistible onslaughts of our
brave troops, the enemy was driven
back along the whole line and we
captured the town of Tlumach, includ
ing the region east of the Dneister
and a ridge of heights.
"South of the Kolomea-Stanislau
railway our attack was preceded by
artillery fire and tho discharge of
chemical gas shells on the enemy's
batteries. The enemy's artillery,
owing to our gas, ceased firing and
abandoned their arms. Our "cavalry
pursued the enemy, who fled in dis
order. One of our gallant divisions
took 2,000 German prisoners during
thsee engagements and captured sev
eral heavy caliber guns and manyj
machine guns. Prisoners continue to'
arrive in large parties. Their total!
number is not yet known.
"In this way the gallant troops of
General Letchitzky again attained an'
important success."
Central Powers Withdrew.
Berlin, Aug. S, via London, 4:15 p.
m. Strong Russian forces yesterday
advanced against the Austro-German'
positions on the Tlumach-Ottynia line
to tho south of Dneister river In Gall
cia, it is announced by the German
army headquarters staff today! and
the forces of the central powers with
grew to previously prepared posi
tions. I
The communication follows:
"Eastern front: Front of Field
Marshal von Hindenburg: Artillery
activity was more lively yesterday in
Lhe Sereth sector and south of it.
Enemy attacks at some points were
repulsed. Near Zaresze on the Stok-!
liod, repeated efforts by the Russians
to gain ground were without success'
and the enemy-suffered heavy losses.! '
West of Lutsk renewed battles have'1
been In progress since early this!1
morning. Northwest of Zalocze "enemy 1
attacks failed. South of Zalocze the!
Russians' advance has been stopped
by a counter attack by our troops, co- 1
operating with those under General
Count von Bothmer. During this op
eration nine officers and more than '
700 men were taken prisoner and five ;
machine guns captured.
"Front of Archduke Francis: South
of Dneister strong Russian forces
advanced to the attacks against the
Tlumach-Ottynia line. The allied
(Teutonic) troops withdrew to previ
ously prepared positions further back.
"In tho Carpathians advantages
gained on both sides of the Bialy
Cheremoch valley have been ex
tended. French Troops Advancing.
Paris, Aug. 8. Noon. French
troops made an advance last night
east of Hill No. 139 on the Somme
front. Two attempts of the Germans
to recapture trenches east of Mona
cu farm were defeated.
The Germans early this morning
launched a series of powerful attacks
on French positions from the village;
of Floury to a point north of Thlau-j
mont work. They obtained a footing i
in Thiaumont work where fighting is
still in progress. The attacks on
Fleury were checked.
The French attack north of the
Somme was made by infantry operat
ing cn the right of the British in the
course of an attack made by the Brit
ish on Guillemont. The French took
forty prisoners.
The announcement follows:
"North of the Somme our Infantry
operating on the right of the British
in (he course rff an attack by our al
lies on Guillemont made an advance
east of Hill 139, north of Hardecourt
arid took forty prisoners.
"East of Mouacu farm the Germans
made two attempts this morning to
recapture by our Infantry fire. The
enemy was compelled to fall back,
leaving a number of dead before our
lines. Tho number of unwounded
prisoners taken yesterday in this re
gion is 230 of whom two are officers.
Furious Fight on the Meuse.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
(Verdun front) the bombardment was
resumed during tho night with ex
treme violence on the Thiaumont
Fleury front. At about 5 o'clock this
morning the Germans delivered a se
ries of powerful attacks with heavy
forces against our positions from the
lillago of Fleury to a point north of
Thiaumont work, accompanied by a
curtain of fire. All the attacks were
checked along the Fleury rond and in
the village by the fire of our machine
guns, which caused largo losses to
the enemy. The Germans succeeded
in gaining a footing in the Thiaumont
work after a desperate encounter
which is still continuing at this hour.
"In the Vosges, detachments of the
enemy which attempted to approach
our trenches near Senoues were dis
persed easily by our fire."
British Push Forward.
London, Aug. 8, 3:15 p. m. The
British pushed forwnrd their lines at
places east of Trones wood on the
Somme front last night, the war of
fice aunounced today.
The statement follows:
"The enemy, after his five fruitless
attempts yesterday north and east of
I.PoziereB- has not made any. fresbj in-
y
ABBOT R. HEYWOOD, Temporary CVai'rman;:v;
antry attacks "but is maintaining a
ieaYy artillery bombardment on this
ronl and on other portions of the
attlo area.
"Last night our troops pushed for
vard in places east of Trones wood
inrt fighting on the outskirts of Guil
emont, (near the station, is proceed
ug. In the eastern portion of this
lalient the enemy attempted a bomb
ittack on our lines but was driven
ack without difficulty.
Troops Enter German Lines.
"North of Roclincourt two of our
jartlea successfully entered the Ger
nan lines" and blew up some dugouts.
"An enemy squadron of ten aero
)lanee endeavored to cross our lines
resterday on a bombing expedition,
rhey were cut off by one of our of
enslvo patrols of four machines. The
?nemy's machines scattered, returning
irecipilately pursued by our patrols,
rwo of the hostile aeroplanes had to
nake forced descents behind their
jwn lines."
Attack on Caucasus Front.
London, Aug. S, 2 p. m. The Rus
sians have renewed their attacks on
the Caucasus front, west of Brzingan.
An official Turkish statement received
here today, dated August 5, says the
Russians gained a footing in the
Turkish lines, but. were driven out
after heavy fghting.
Parliament Is Prolonged.
London, Aug. 8, 4.05 p. m. The ex
pected bill prolonging the life of the
present parliament on account of the
war, will be introduced in the liousc
of commons by Premier Asquith on
Monday.
No Americans on Liner.
Washington, Aug. 7 American
consuls in Italy having advised the
state department that no Americans
were aboard the Italian mall liner
Lhtimbro, chased and sunk by a sub
marine in the Mediterranean, offi
cials said today that no further in
vestigation would be made. So far
as, this government is concerned, it
was stated, the incident is closed.
British Steamer Sunk.
London, Aug. S, 4:06 p. m. The
British steamship Trident of 3,129
tons gross, is believed to have been
sunk, according to an announcement
made today at Lloyd's Shipping
agency.
The Trident was 325 feet long, 45
feet beam and 23 feet deep. She was
built at Stockton In 1902, New Castle
was her homo port.
oo
FRANK B. WILLIS
IS RENOMINATED
Columbus, Ohio, Aug. S. Re-nomination
of Frank B. Willis as Republican
candidate for governor and James M,
Cox, former governor, as candidate for
the chief executive office on the Dem
ocratic ticket, Is indicated by the ear
ly ballot of tho Ohio primaries to
day. A light vote will be polled, it
was Indicated.
Rudolph A. Mack of Cincinnati is
chief opponent of Willis, with' George
Shaw of Cleveland a3 third candidate.
oo
A teachers' union is underlay at
McComb, Miss. " " I
ITALIANS BEGIN
VIST OFFENSIVE
Fighting Along the Isonzo and
on Carso Plateau Continues
Additional Ground
Gained.
ITALY IS REJOICING
Troops Carrying Out Envelop
ing Movement Results
Will Be Certain But
Slow.
London, Aug. S, 1 p. m. The Italian
offensive along the Isonzo and on the
Carso plateau is being continued and,
according to a wireless dispatch from
Rome, a number of additional posi
tions have been occupied. The Aus
trians hold little ground on the right
bank of the Isonzo.
The dispatch reports the number of
prisoners taken by the Italians has
been increased considerably and that
the Austrians are now destroying vil
lages in the vicinity of Gorizia.
Rome, Aug. S, via Paris, 9:30 a. m.
The announcement by the war office
of the Italian victory in the Monfal
cone sector is received, everywhere in
Italy with rejoicing, although the war
Is being directed with such secrecy
thnt the public at large knows little
about it. In view of the difficult na
ture of the ground and the excef
tlonally favorably positions held by
Austrians, the taking of 3,600 prison
ers is regarded as a long step in ad
vance. The troops which so distinguished
themselves are from Leghorn and
Turin. They carried out an envelop
ing moement which made possible
the gathering in of prisoners in large
numbers.
Sure of Results.
Paris. Aug. 8, 9:30 a. m. "The
conviction is general at Rome," the
Havas correspondent there writes,
"that we are at the beginning of a
vast offensive, the results of which
are certain, although they may be
slow,"
oo
Colorado Springs, Colo., Aug. 8.-
From Colorado Springs to the summit
of Pike's Peak, a distance of 30
miles in 45 minutes, was tho record
run made by Hugh Hughes, the Eng
lish pilot racer, and A. E. Hayes, a
local newspaper man, early this morn
ing. A rise of 0.100 feet, the differ
ence between tho elevation of Colo
rado Springs and the summit, was
overcome 0n the trip, which was made
without a mishap of any kind. The
trip was made by way of Manitou and
the new Pike's Peak highway, which
will be the scene of tho Penrose cup
races later this week.
oo
! Washington, Aug. 8. Senate:
Ad6pted conference report on army
appi'ojirlatloii bill, carrying $267,957,
000. Resumed debate on child labor
bill
Law to be in Effect b the Summer of 1917 and No f I
Further Delay to Be Tolerated Salaof Iiqaor 1 1
in Any Manner to fee Prohibited Anti- I
Spry Forces Win in Caucus of . ; 1 1
Salt Lake Delegation. 1 1
Selection of temporary officers by the state committee, S
a caucus of the Salt Lake county delegation and the delivery
of the keynote speech by Mayor Abbot R. Heywood, the I
temporary chairman, constituted the morning proceedings of l
the Republican state convention, which began sessions in the 1 H
Alhambra theater today. 1
The convention was called to order by John Hardy, Gov- jH
ernor Spry's secretary, at 1 1 :27 a. m. Mr. Hardy introduced
H. L. Cummings, secretary of the state committee, who read 1
the official call for the convention as issued by the state com- m
mittee. Then followed the announcements that the state com- ' 1
mittee, had selected the temporary officers of the convention ';
as follows : ' ", m
Chairman Mayor Abbot R. Heywood. ",- 4
First Vice Chairman Hardy Cluff, Utah county. 1
Second Vice Chairman Asa R. Hawley, Sevier county.
Third Vice Chairman A. A. Hinckley, Millard county. jj
Secrotary O. F. McShane, Beav.er county. jj
First Assistant Secretary John A. Horsley, Boxelder 1
county. 1
Second Assistant Secretary W. S. Henderson, Uintah !
county. 1
Third Assistant Secretary Frank Kelly, Emery county. l SH
Tally Clerks John V. Bluth, Joseph Storey of Weber Jt
county, and John Edwards of Salt Lake county. i
Sergeant at Arms Axel Steele; assistants, James Cromp- 'ji!
ton, George Leatham, C. H. Ellsworth, Weber county; E.
Madamson, Tooele county; L. R. Watts, Salt Lake county. m
Official Reporter Harold J. Packer, Weber county. S
Chaplain Morgan Richards, Iron couAt. J
PROHIBITION.
Shortly before 3 o'clock, the plat
form committee began the final pass
ing on Its work by voting on the
planks submitted. Among the first
of these was the pledging of the can
dldatcs for office to support a lav
prohibiting the manufacture and sale,
by prescription or otherwise, of In
toxicating liquor In the state, the lav
to be effective six months after it
Is passed by the state legislature.
There was no opposition to' the adop
t'on of the plank, in Its general aim.
An exception was taken, however, to
the six months' time limit and an
amendment was Introduced to length
en this three months, making the
lin-It January 1, 1918, In order to
give the people financially interested
in tho liquor traffic time to dispose
of their holdings.
The amendment vas seconded, but
opposition to it immediately arose,
the speakers contending that suffi
cient intimation had been given the
liquor Interests during the past two
years as to what they might expect
and that the definite warning given
toda by the placing of a prohibition
plcnk In the platform would bo play
ing entirely fair with them. On the
queitlon, the amendment vas lost and
the original motion was passed, mak
ing the placing of Utah among the
"dry" states a virtually assured fact
in the summer of 1917.
The adoption of this plank was fol
loved by the adoption of a similar
one pledging the congressional candi
dates to support and work for na
tional prohibition measures that may
be Introduced In .congress.
Ogden became the convention city
this morning, when delegates to the
state convention today and the first
district congressional convention to
morrow arrived, coming here on all
Incomtes trains. The Salt Lafee
delegates arrived on a special Bam
berger train at 9 o'clock. They Tvcre
met at the stufion by un Ogden band
and escorted to tie Alhambra. "where
the carrots vms heM. DavlB county
also BCfnt Its delegation to the city
on tho special
There was much speculation -as to
tho outcome of tho fight in tho guber
natorial situation. Some were of the
opinion that Morris would be nominat
ed on the tirst ballot Others held
that the alignment as It appeared to
them made tho state executive's nom
ination at any time in the convention
possible.
Before tho temporary chairman was
introduced, the chaplain offered prayer
Then tho mayor began, his speooh,
which was an argument for a return
to Republican national administration 1
.nd a continuance of Republican ad- 1
ministration in state and county of- m jH
rices. He made an especial plea M
that men of wisdom, men of integri- ,M
ty and men who would promote the jjl
best interests of the state' be placed m
on the ticket m jH
Salt Lake Caucus. 'iQ
While the state committee was In m jH
session In headquarters in the Ecclcs m JH
building selecting the temporary of-
fleers, the Salt Lake delegation was jH
in caucus in the Alhambra, the Jen- H
kins-Morris combination, known as thfj
anti-Spry forces, selected all the i jH
men it proposed for credentials, or-
der of business and platform and H
resolutions as well as members of the m
state committee. The vote vas 96 for ffi
the Morris-Jenkins forces to 6S for m
the Spry people. Si
Ben L. Rich, chairman of the Salt jH
Lake delegation, presided at the cau- jfl
cus, and in a brief address an-
nounced the purpose of the gathering.
He announced that Mayor Abbot R. M
Heywood had extended tho delegation H
an invitation to make the second
floor of the city hall its headquarters M
while in tho city and that chairs and M IH
everything that would afford comfort H
to them would be at their disposal. H
When nominations were in order, H
Bishop Joseph Christenscn of Salt Bj jH
Lake announced that there were two
factions comprising the delegation,
one the anti-Spry and the other for
the governor. He then read a list of
names proposed forthe places In tho M
organization and placed them In nom- M
inatlon. A. G. McKenzie was leader
of the Spry faction in the delegation '
and placed the Spry candidates for
places in the organization In nom- ID
Ination. The selections vrere mado H
by standing vote. This was agreed W
upon to expedite the business the Jj
caucus, as announced" ttj the chaTr m jH
man. B
Spry Forces Defeated. B
A. V. Irvine was elected commit-
teeman on permanent organization
over Lawrence Green, tho Snry candl- H jHI
date, the vote being SO to 73.
George M. Cannon was. chosen to
represent the delegation on the com- H
mittee on platform and resolutions. - H Bj
He defeated Glen Miller of the -Spry
forces for the place by a vote cf Dti H
to 68. M AH
When Isdevoloped that the antl- m J
Spry forces were In the majority, It
waa decided to Ibke one vote to select jBI
the balance of the organization. In M
this the anti-Spry forces won 'ouf Dy M BJ
(Sontinued on" Pages 6, and 7,) W BBB
JBBB
