DAILY
VOL. XX NO. 123.
HARM., VKKMOXT. TUKSDAV, AUGUST 8, 1010.
l'KICK. OXK CKXT.
THE
BARRE
TIMES
FRENCH LOSE
PART OF WORK
ATTHIAUMONT
COMPLETE REVISION.
Ordered (or Munitions Tax Section ot
House Revenue bill.
Washington, D. C, Aug. S Complete
revision of the munition lax section of
the House revenue hill and sweeping in
creases in the inheritance tax, vti or
I"rt recommended to the I)eniiK'ratie
caucus yesterday by JVmoeratic mem
her of the Senate "finance committee.
The proposed higher taxes on big in
hcriUnces would increase estimated rev.
r T nunoVinri QrtrJe rxTi-" from tliat section of the bill ahme
Germans Launched berios oi from f :4 IMK)000 u (:2imnm !-
Powerful Attacks on Ver
dun Front and Succeeded
in Gaining a Footing in
the Northern Part of
Thiaumont Work, Where
Fighting Still Is in Progress
FLEURY DEFENDED
AGAINST ATTACK
The French Advanced Last
Night East of Hill 139 on
Somme Front, and They
Repulsed Two German At
tempts to Recapture the
Trenches East of Monacu
Farm
Paris, Aug. 8. French troops made an
advance last night east of Hill 139 on
the Somme front, and two attempts of
the Germans to recapture the trenches
cast of Monacu farm were defeated.
The Germans this morning launched a
series of powerful attacks on French
positions from Flcury to a point north
of Thiaumont work. They obtained a
footing in Thiaumont work where the
iitrhtin? still is in progress. The attack
on Fleurv were checked.
A French attack north of the Somme
was made by infantry operating on the
right of the British in the course ot an
attack made by the British on Guille-jnont.
ly. Retaining the House bill taxei of
one per cent on estates over .o,ooo grail
uiitej up to five per cent on those in ex
cess of $150,000, the committee added
schedules of ix per cent on net estates
in excess of fl.tHHl.nitO; seven per cent
on $'..',000,000 to $3,000,000; eight per
cent on $3,000,000 to $5,000,000; and 10
per cent on estates in excess of $.",oo0,-
000.
In reviewing the munitions tax, the
committee struck out the varying rates
provided in the House lull for muni
tions of war, powder explosives, shells,
cartridges, projectiles, product of cop
per and the like, and decided to substi
tute a flat uniform tax on all of these
commodities. Determining that the tax
should be made a net protit tax on the
manufact'yer, the comiiittee also decided
to add ti" following commodities util
SENATE AGREES
ON ARMY BILL
Accepted Conference Report
On Appropriation With
out Debate
NATIVE OF TUNBRIDGE.
MEASURE CARRIES
$2G7,000,000 TOTAL
For Maintenance of Organ
ized Army and Nation
al Guard
Washington, D. C, Aug. 8. Without
debate, the Senate agreed to-day to the
conterence report on the armv appropri
ation bil! carrying $2i7 ,000,000 for the
ized in imiking munitions: steel billets i maintenance of the organized regular
.... . , i .. 1 , l - : i j
ingots, blooms, shell forging, denatured
alcohol and cotton lintcrs. In addition,
chemicals actually used in the manufac
ture of munitions would be taxed. Vhe
rate to be imposed still is to lie deter
mined.
The income tax section was completed
during the day, the committee retain
ing the normal tax of two per ceiu on
all incomes in excess of .tl.iHX) and iso,-
000 respectively for married persona and
single persons, adding the special tax of
one per cent on incomes in excess ol
$3,000 and $2,000 respectively for mar
ried and single persons; retaining the
surtaxes as proposed in the Houc bill,
with the exception of an increase of $1,-
OOO.Ooo. All of the proposed changes are
subject to the approval of the Democratic
caucus.
ASSAILED ADMINISTRATION
armv and the national guard
The only criticism of the report came
from Senator t Iapp, who protested
against the elimination of the LaFolletto
amendment increasing the minimum age
limit for enlisted men from IS to 21
without consent of their parents or
guardians. Because of this he voted
'against the report.
ALLOWED RIGHT TO ORGANIZE
no GERMANS CAPTURED
In New French Success Between Hem
Wood and Somme River.
London, Aug. 8. The Germans have
Buffered further losses at the hands of
the French between the Hem wood and
Hughes Made Vigorous Attack at De
troit Last Night.
Detroit, Mich., Aug. 8. Charles E.
Hughes, in the first set speech of his
transcontinental trip, hist night assailed
the administration vigorously lor its
foreign policy, its Mexican policy, for
appointing men whom he termed in-
experienced to diplomatic posts and lor 'hp 9trik)1 ,pa(1prs' ww
Street Car Strikers in New York Win
That as Concession.
New York, Aug. 8. The strike on the
surface railway lines' here, which threat
ened to extend to the subway and ele
vated systems and thus completely tie up
transportation and facilities in greater
New York virtually came to an end lust
night.
Directors of the New York Railway
company and the Third Avenue Railway
company, the two principle lines affected,
voted to accept a plan of settlement pro
posed by Mayor Mitchel and Oscar S.
Straus, chairman of the public sen-ice
commission after representatives of the
strikers had agreed to it.
One of the chief concessions in the
settlement gives to the employes the
right to organize, which was the issue
what he characterized as "a raid upon
the civil service of the I'nitcd States."
"He kept us out of the war," Mr.
Hughes said, referring to the presi
dent and a Democratic campaign slogan.
"Yet we seized Vera Cruz. That was
war very ignoble war. And it was
called war over the bodies of those dead
soldiers; it was called a war of service.
"Talk about wfaat is vour policy. What
is the president's policy docs anyone
mined should be fought to the end. The
N. K. Brown, Burlington Bank Treasurer,
Died Suddenly.
Turlington. Aug, 8. X. K. Brown, for
the past IS years treasurer of the Home
Savings hank and one of the liest. known
of the older resident of Burlington, died
at III home shortly after noon yesterday
of acute indige-tion an 1 dilation of the
heart. Mr. Brown, who was sj years old
last April, went to the bank in the morn
ing in his usual health, but became vio
lently ill soon after reaching there. He
was assisted to bis home on South Wl
nooski avenue and Doctors Morgan and
McSwwney were called, but to no avail,
Mr. Urown passing away at 12:05 o'clock,
lie is survived by three daughters, Mis
F.lla G. Brown of this city, Mr. F. S.
Dillingham of Craffshury and Mrs. Hub
ert K. Holme of Philadelphia, Fa.; by
one sister, Mis Flia, Brown: and by
one brother, Frank Brown, Itoth of this
city; four grandchildren and two great
grandchildren.
The funeral arrangement have not
been completed, pending word from Mrs.
Holmes in Philadelphia.
Nathaniel King Brown was born in
Tunbridge April 17, lH.'M, the on of Jere
miah and Nancy Folsom (Kingi Brown
and was educated in the public schools.
In lS.lfl he married Susan Gilman Moody
of Waterburv, who died in December,
lO.'I. Five children were born to them,!
three now living. Mr. Brown was in th
drug hinducsa in Wisconsin for a year
lifter Ins marriage, jmst master at Water
luiry from IStil to JcCL m the drug husi
ness in Montpelier from liU until 1870,
when he moved to this city and conduct
cd a wholesale proprietary medicine busi
ness tor 3. years. He manufactured
X. K. Brown's essence of Jamaica ginger
Hrown s teething cordial and Brown
bronchials, all having a national repnta
kion. At the time of his death he was a
trustee and treasurer of the Home Sav
ings bnnk and also In the real estate ami
collection business. Mr. Brown wa
member of the board of street commis
sioners for 14 year and an alderman for
four years. He was a member of the
First church, and a deacon for over 20
years. He was a member of the exocu
tive committee of the State Sunday
.School and loung .(ten s Christian asso
ciations for several years; past master
of Aurora lodge, No. 22, F. and A. M.; a
momher of Washington lodge. No. 3
Jiurlington, for over 40 years, and a chap
tcr member for 40 wars. .
ARREST MADE
AFTER FIRE
Man Could Not Explain His
Presence in a Boston
Tenement
YOUNG GIRL WAS
BURNED TO DEATH
DISCUSSED COAL
PRICES TO THE CITY
Council Got Heated Over the Subject as
to Alleged Discrimination in Purchase
Want More Mon-y to Finish Road
Work on North Mam Street.
Other Members of Her Fam
ily Were Taken Down
Ladders To-day
CHANGES IN VERMONT TROOPS
Three Lieutenants Try for Regular Army
Lieut. Cashing Resigns.
Eagle Pass, Tex., Aug. 8. Three lieu
tenants of the First Vermont regiment
the river Somme, losing there a ,line of
their trenches and 120 prisoners and 10 know? Has the executive ever had a
machine guns, and also in the eraun policy tor more than six mouths on t no
fctctor, where the French made progress
south of the Thiaumont work and cap
tured five machine guns and took some
houses in the western part of the village
of Fleurv.
Following a heavy bombardment of
the British positions, the Germans
launched violent infantry attacks north
end northeast of Pozieros, and at two
places succeeded in entering the British
trenches, their success was not long
lived, for the British 60on drove them
cut, inflicting heavy casualties on them.
Amid continuous rains, which have
turned the country into a quagmire, the
Russians are keeping up their strong of
fensive against the Teutonic allies in
r.orthern Galicia and have pushed farther
forward their line against them in the
fcereth and Graberki river regions.
Also along the Stokhod river, in Vol-
Jiynia, nenr the town ot Zarecze, the Kus
Bians have driven the Teutons from their
trenches and occupied them, taking 12
efficers and 200 men prisoners and cap
turing one machine gun in the operation.
In the Carpathians, the Germans report
the capture of two peaks from the Rus
sians. Constantinople reports a series of gains
for the Turks lighting against the Rus
sia ns, and Petrograd admits at least one
-of the claims that the Russians have
lieen forced to retire under pressure to
the region east of Kermanshah, Persia.
An attack by the Russians north of Bu
kan, on the Persian front, was put down
with heavy losses to the Russians, ac
cording to Constantinople, and in Turk
ish Armenia near Bitlis and Mush the
Russians have been put to flight and the
Turks have taken from them positions
the Russians had previously captured.
The latest reports concerning the at
tack of the Turks against the British
forces with the Suez canal their objective
indicate that the Ottoman forces met
With a reverse even more Berious than
Vas first chronicled. Driven back 18
iniles into the desert, fighting rear guard
net ions, they suffered heavy casualties
ond of their total force of 14,000 lost 45
officers and 3,000 men made prisoners.
They now have been entirely cleared
from the Katia-LTmaishi basin.
Violent fighting is in progress between
the Austrians and Italians on various
sectors, especially around the Gorizia
bridgehead, on the Doberdo plateau, and
on the lower Isonzo river. Near Monte
Sahotino and Monte San Michele, the
Italians captured advanced Austrian po
sitions, but Vienna says the greater por
tion of these were later retaken by the
Austrian.. On the lower Isonzo, Rome
reports the capture by the Italians of hill
t-.i, which was hold against violent coun
t' r-attacks.
Mexican question? I repeat: Who
knows to-day what the policy of the ad
ministration will be three months hence?
My friends, the trouble is that this ad
ministration has written such a record
that no matter what it says, you do not
know whether it will stick to it.
''We have had an exhibition during
the past three years which, I confess
fills me with a deep sense of shame
I have not a particle of militaristic spir
it in my system, but if I am elected
president I will see to it that American
rights in Mexico are respected.
Mr. Hughes assailed the administra
tion's course toward upholding Ameri
can rights abroad during the European
war.
When I say that I am an American
citizen," t'he nominee said, "I ought to
say the proudest thing that any man
can say in this world. Hut. you can t
have that pride if American citizenry is
a cheap thing, if it is not worthy of pro
tection this wide world over. There is
no man who could successfully present
to an American community the platform
that an American citizens right stops
at the coast line and that beyond that
American life is to be the prey of any
marauder that chooses to take it.
The nominee cited the Republican plat
form's declaration that 30,000 govern
ment positions had been taken from the
operation of the civil service law during
the present administration and declared
that "that sort of thing has got to stop."
He told of an instance, where, he said,
an eminent scientist, in the coast and
geodetic survey, "a man of very emi
nent rank, had beerr displaced to make
room for an excellent stock breeder and
veterinary surgeon." "The federal trade
commission," Mr. Hughes charged, '"was
fairly emasculated with the law by the
men, for the most part, who were ap
pointed to places upon it."
companies agree to treat with grievance jhavo been detached from their regiment
ana scm 10 me imneentn inlnntrv tor
special duty. The sending of these lieu
tenants to the Thirteenth follows upon
the applications made by them to take
the examination for second lieutenancies
in the regular army. If they make good
with the Thirteenth they will take the
examinations and upon the result of
their examination will depend their
chances of appointment. Those thus
committees of their employes, irrespec
tive of the fact that they may belong to
a union. Wage demands will be arbitrat
ed, the provision being made that nego
tiations must begin not later than Aug.
20.
"The settlement between employes and
officials of the New York Railways com
pany and the Third Avenue Railway
company makes it inevitable that the
NO TRACE OF SUBMARINES
Which Were Sighted Monday Off the
Coast of Maine.
Portland, Me., Aug. 8. No further
further trace had been reported to-day
of the two vessels believed bv the coast
guard lookout who sighted them to be
submarines, which appeared off the Maine
coast yesterday.
declared Mavor Mitchel.
The directors of the New York Kail
way1! company were deadlocked 2 hours
before they could ftgree on the terms of
settlement although the agreement con
cedes the right of the employes to organ-
ire, the union is not recognized by the
company. .Mr. Shonts issued a statement
calling on the strikers to "Let bygones be
bygones ttnd get to work, giving New
York the best street car service in the
world."
other line must settle their differences,' detached from the guard are Lieutenants
FORMAL CHARGE OF MURDER.
Preferred Against George W. Duncan,
Who Shot His Wife.
Rutland, Aug. 8. George W. Duncan,
aged 30 years, hotelkeeper, who shot his
wife Saturday night, was formally
charged with murder in the first degree
by State's Attorney C. V. Poulin yester
day. His case will be taken before the
grand jury in September. Duncan will
be defended by Attorney Jospph C. Jones
of this city. Temporary insanity will
probably be the defense. W hue manag
ing the Holland house here, Duncan has
been a street car conductor part of the
time and he was well liked by his asso
ciates.
Dr. B. H. Stone of the state labora
tory of hygiene at Burlington and an
assistant, performed an autopsy on the
woman's body yesterday.
L. T. Huntington. Co. M, L. H. Hanley,
to. (.., K. ti. .Miner, Co. I, and Adams,
who is a graduate of Norwich universi
ty.
The resignation of Lieutenant John T.
Cashing of St. Albans, an officer of the
supply company, has been accepted. The
iieurenanc is on nis way nomc.
Colonel Beeves has issued a call for
a competitive examination to be held
Wednesday to fill three vacancies in
the lieutenancies. The colonel believes
that through these examinations he will
get the best possible results and that
the men best fitted for the position will
gain them. He intends to make this
competitive examination a feature in the
future. Because of his excellent work
the colonel has recommended that Lieu
tenant C. B. .Sumner be made battalion-
djutant.
Boston, Aug. S. Esther Barron, aped
II years, was burned to death in a fire
which damaged a brick tenement house
in the west end to-day. Other members
of her familv, which lived on the fourth
floor, were taken down ladders.
Peter Olesky, whose explanation of his
presence in the building did not satisfy
the police, Mas arrested as a suspicious
character.
WAS FOUND GUILTY
Harry Hunter Was Then Fined for Run
rung Auto Carelessly.
A verdict of guilty was returned in
Bsrre city court this afternoon nt 12:30
o'clock by the jury that heard the evi
dence in the case of Stnte vs. Harry
Hunter of Montpelier, a train dispatcher,
charged with having operated his auto
mobile in a careless and negligent man
ner. The jury retired at noon. Magis
trate H. W. Scott imposed a fine of .ir)
and the costs brought the total assess
ment up to $40.31, which the respondent
paid.
The case grew out of an accident on
the afternoon of Sunday, July 30, when
Tolentino Menotti of Third street was
struck bv Hunter's car as he started to
board a street car on North Main street.
The complainant received a bid cut over
the eve and Hunter was taken in custody
two days later. To-dav he was repre
sented bv Harry C . Shurtleff of Montpc
her, and Grand Juror William Wishart
conducted the prosecution. A jury of
five was made up as follows: John
Brown, Carl M. rerry, O. K. Anderson,
Willi'.! ni McDonald and James Smart.
Witnesses for the state were: Edward
Cardini, Domenico Botalico, Tolentino
Menotti, Leon Carroll and Pierino 0 alii.
For the defense, Louis A. Marshall, a
brakeman. who was Hunter's passenger;
Bert Smith, Henry Shambo, Motorman
Ray Coppins and the respondent took the
stand.
THIRD RUN TO BERLIN.
CARLSON BROWN.
KAMIMURA DEAD.
Vice-Admiral of Japanese Navy Was in
Russian War.
Tokin, Aug. 8. Vice-Admiral Hikono-
jo Kaniimura of the Japanese navy is
dead.
CATCH REAR GUARD
British Troops Are Hotly Pursuing Turks
East of Suet CanaL
London. Aug. 8. British troops pnr
V fuing the Turkish force, defeated at Ro
tnani. have caught up with the Turkish
Xear girard east of the Suez canal, says
jthe official statement.
VAST ITALIAN OFFENSIVE.
Believed to Be Started Against the Aus
trians, London, Aug. 8. The Italian offensive
the Isonzo front and on the Carso
j!ta rontiniH-s. The conviction ia
f.nerl in Rome. My a ditpatoh, that
t;:e Italians are beg lining vast iTen-he.
BRITISH AGAIN ADVANCE.
Pushed Their Lines Along East of Trones
Wood in Somme Front.
Vice-Admiral Kamimura, who was 67
years old, was one of the most promi
nent officers in the Japanese navy. As
commander-in-chief of the second squad
ron he played one important part in the
Russian-Japanese war, and is believed to
have led in the naval assault with the
British squadron against the German
base at Tsing-Tao, China, in 1914.
BORN IN PLAINFIELD.
Mrs. Anna G. Bennett Died in Manches
ter, N. H.
Manchester, N. H., Aug. 8. Mrs. Anna
G. Bennett died yesterday afternoon at
the Gale home, 133 Ash street, aged fll
years. She was a native of Plainfield,
Marriage Took Place at St. Augustine's
in Montpelier.
At St. Augustine's church in Montpel
ier this morning occurred the marriago
of Evelyn Brown, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Edward Brown of West Berlin, and
Carl Carlson of Montpelier. They were
attended bv Mr. and Mrs. Joseph La-
couse of the Montpelier road. The wed
ding march was played by Miss Claire
Lynch.
The bride was gowned in a suit of
blue gabardine and carried white carna
tions, her bridesmaid wearing white voile,
and carrying a bouquet of white gerani
ums. After the ceremony Mr. and Mrs. Carl
son left by automobile for a wedding
trip. Upon their return they will re
side at 141 Berlin street. The groom is
employed as a granite cutter in the
Capitol Granite company plant in Mont
pelier. The bride and groom have the
best wishes of their many friends.
Board of Trade Better Acquaintance Tour
Friday, Aug. n.
The third of the series of better ac
quaintance tours being conducted under
the auspices of the Barre Board of Trade
ill be held Friday evening, Aug. 11, and
Berlin Corner will be the point of desti
nation. A lai'se number of members and
their ladies are expected to attend, as
the two previous tours to Marshfield and
Chelsea have been very successful and
full of enjoyment.
The automotive will leave the citv
park at 7 o'clock, and on arrival at
Berlin a buffet lunch will be served under
the direction of the grange there. If the
weather is favorable, the lunch will be
served outdoors, but if unfavorable in
the grange hall. Following the supper
pictures will be thrown on the screen, a
balloon will be sent up, and there will be
speeches of short duration.
Tickets for the supper will be 25 cents
each, and persons who desire automobile
accommodations for the trip will be car
ried free of charge. Tickets may be se
cured of the members of the automobile
committee, B. W. Hooker. G. R. Varnum,
E. C. Glysson and b . 11. Rogers, or of
Secretary II. A. Phelps of the Board of
J rade.
! V .nil Q ( 1 litTAfi t. Sr. BAl-Aro I . ' .-
London, Ausr. 8. The British nnsheH I cw-' ... i j r-: t:.j. i i.
,t: , fl Ht-llliT-U I HIT t.
forward their lines at places east of
Trones wood on the Somme front, the
war oCiee announces.
BOSTON GETS TASTE
OF TORRID WEATHER
Boston, Aug. 8. Boston, which j
enjoyed balmy weather while the i
Middle West suffered intensely,
was to-day getting a taste of the
hot wave. At 11 o'clock this morn
ing the mercury had climbed to !2
and was etill going up.
Word from New York stated
that city was plunged into another
hot wave, with the thermometer at
83. There were five deaths in tat
city.
At noon there bad born one
death and five hospital cases doe
to the heat.
niversalist church.
She is survived by one sister, Mrs. Frank
F. Proctor, of thia city.
FARM BUILDINGS BURN
George Cox Farm Between East Bam
and Cobble Hill Visited.
The buildings on the George Cox farm
situated between East Barre village and
the Cobble hill section, caught fire early
this afternoon and at the last report were
being destroyed. Aid was called from
FJsst Barre, and quite a number of men
responded.
Mrs. John Leslie and daughter, AThra,
WAS IN 99th YEAR.
Mrs. Calista Hodge of Bristol Was Oldest
in the Town.
Bristol, Aug. 8. The funeral of Mrs.
Calista Hodge was held Monday after
noon at her late tvme on Church street,
the Rev. G. A. Parker officiating. Mrs.
Hodge wag in her POth year, and was
the oldest person in town. She had been
in failing health for some time. Mrs.
Hodge is survived by two grandchildren,
Bert Hodge Hill, who is director of the
American school at Athens. Greece, and, will undergo repairs. It was stated that
P. R. Hill of this town, with whom shejir pj.kinson had not owned the tar
lived. She is also survived by several j long as it was a new one this srrinu.
AUTO IN FLAMES.
Elm Street the Scene of Hot Time Ex
citement.
A Ford truck owned by W. T. Dickin
son of West Topshnm and used on his
stage route from the Fast Barre post
office to West Tfpsham us a mail con
veyance, caught tire yesterday afternoon
about 5 o'clock as it was standing on
Elm street near the entrance to the al
ley that leaiU into the rear of Ladd's
grocery store. The car was driven by
Karl Flanders, who had just driven from
the Cutler garage on North Main street,
where he had the gasoline tank filled but
a few minutes before, and vas about ti
start for East Barre when he felt the
heat coming from under the seat. Hit
lifting the cushion from the seat the
flames flashed up setting the whole body
in a mass of flames.
The auto fire truck was immediateiy
ealled and with the aid of hand extin
guishers the fire was put out in short
order. The automobile was damaged
about the body and gasoline tank, and
the heat f the fire broke the wind
Sweltering humidity added to the im
potency of the city council in summon
ing frexhness and energy to it stint at
the regular monthly session last evening
and the enervating temperature caused
that august body ot legislators to wear
countenance that were woefully lieding-
led before the adjournment fever spread
the length and breadth of the table. Such
tender topics as the opera house lease
and the proposed new motor truck for
the water department were t.ilnoed, but
the monotony of uninterrupted gal hid
a telling elicit. Adjournment was taken
none t.n soon.
Alderman Reynold hail nn irritating
little grievance to air about alleged dis
crimination in the matter of purchasing
coal and Alderman Glysson of the street
department sent up the dit.tre.s-i signal
for more money in the resurfacing pro
ject on North Main street. That was
about all, apart from the routine affairs.
I he coal biiKinebH worked its way to the
surface when the clerk, in the course of
the warrant readings, mentioned a bill
lor $410 due the Morse & Jackson firm.
The member from ward 4 alleged that
the majority members of the supply com
mittee, namely. Aldermen Ilealy and
Shurtleff, passed up a chance to purchase
coal at $1.20 and On cents per ton cheap
er, according to the size of the chunks,
by ignoring the Co-operative company on
Granite street.
Briefly calculating the amount of coal
recently purchased, Mr. Reynolds stated
that .43 could have been saved on one
oO-ton jag and that the city would have
profited to the extent of .130 in buying
150 tons from the Co-operative people.
Aldermen Ifealy dismissed the impeach
ment as leing too ridiculous to consider.
He said that the Co-operative man want
ed $25 or $50 to do business for the city
and agreed with Alderman Shurtleff thsit
the committee couldn't do business with
Granite street on a business basis.
Alderman Rossi interjected the remark
that the city saved money last year by
dealing with the Co-operative company.
and Alderman Reynolds asked his ward
2 colleague if he rememlered anything
about a bill for 50 tops from the D. M.
Mile- Coal company, which was consid
ered at a finance committee meeting
some time before and had then disap
peared. Mr. Healy couldn't remember,
lie said, and asked a sharp question as to
whether a man should be expected to re
member everything. Alderman Glysson
recalled some conversation in committee
meeting about the bill. Alderman Healy
amplified his previous query bv testify
ing that he didn't carrv everything
around in his head and asked Mr. Rev
nolds as to what manner of man he
thought he was addressing. The clerk
was interrogated and he recalled that
bill for $320 from the. Miles company was
in the warrants around July 1. Ihe an
thracite rupture was not widened when
someone put an end to the bickering by
moving that the warrants be paid. The
motion carried.
Chairman Glvsson brought in some in
formation considering the money, tether
the end of which was reached, or approx
imated, on North Main street. . He
thought that the work could be contin
ued for $1,000 with the $300 now remain
ing and quoted the county road supervi
sor as expressing his belief that the state
would furnish $500 for the pe;manent
work if the city would appropriate an
equal amount. Otherwise, the $300 rem
nant would be used to make the unfin
ished strip as passable as possible. The
dilemma was discussed at some lengtl:
and then it was voted to appropriate the
$o00 if an equal amount is subscribed by
the state. Washington street was then
brought under the searchlight and the
street committee was instructed to in
vestigate the feasibility of cement and
pavinjr and to report its findings
A lefter to the mavor 'stated that
Barre's share in the maintenance of the
Washington Count v Farm bureau is
$2i4.S4. as computed by the state tax
commissioner. It developed that llarre
Barre Town, Montpelier and Waterburv
are paying as much as two-third? of the
assessment, but no one seemed to gain
say the fact that the money is being
well spent.
Building permits were granted as fol
lows: J. H. McCarthy, to remodel barn
on South Main street; Howland Brothers
Jt Cave, to build block addition on North
Piin street; George Reed, to reshingle
at fi and 8 Spaulding street: John Cleary,
to reroof at 3S0 North Main street. M.
Villa's request to erect a new barn on
Granite street was referred to the fire
ommittee and the same committee's re
port advising that his request to move a
barn in that vicinity be turned down was
accepted. Arthur H.irber was given per
mission to move a henhouse trom W illey
street ti the Richardson road. W. J.
'Iapp and the Montpelier & Barre Light
ing & Power company were granted wir
ing permits. The report, of the water
superintendent for July was read and ac
cepted.
Warrants stamped with the approval
of the council were bunched as follows:
The Times. $t4.35. advertising, taxes,
street, water, city buildinjrs. fire, health,
printing and stationery, elections and do2
license accounts: A. W. Allen Co. $24
rake, street deptirf ment : C. W. Averill fc
Co.. $70.70, supplies, ftreet. bridges and
UNION MEN
ASSEMBLED
loth Annual Convention of
Vermont State Branch,
A. F. of L., in Barre
55 DELEGATES
IN FIRST SEf .ON"
Big Day of Meet' 'Comes
To-morrow .npers
the Chief ure
shield. The car was hauled to the IVrrv (culverts, engineering ard water aceounts:
garage on Washington street, where it
great-grandchildren. Mrs. Hodge was
life long member of the Methodist Epis
copal church and will be missed hy a
host of friends. '
FUNERAL OF JAMES GOOD
Was Held at St. Monira's Church This
Morning.
The funeral of James Good, whose
There was no insurance on the machine.
CAR TIFFED ON SIDE
Dr. Stewart Crawled Out Unharmed on
Currier Street Hilt
Dr. J. W. Stewart emerged from a mo
tor accident on the Currier street kill
this morning with the luck all on his
side. In his roadster, he was making the
death occurred at hi home. 5 Farwell I cent of the hill when he lost momen-
street, Saturday evening, after a lonjr'tum and the car le?an to move back-
illne. was held in M. Mniea's church, ward. It sidled toward a dit.-li on the
forenoon at ! oVlork. the prih'east side of the thoroughfare, and when' Whit
A. W. Badger A Co.. $n. supples, street
and police accounts: H. F. Cutler. $2.5(
supplies, street and tiro accounts; Prown
Motor Co.. $7.05. supplies, street and fire
accounts; .Tohnson Paper Co.. $l.ti3, sup
plies street iccount: Kcvnpton mills.
$135,411. supplies, street and fire ac
counts; F. M -I.eod. iS.75. Ishor, street
account; P. M. Miles Coal Co.. $fi7.17.
fuel, street account: Montpelier & Barre
Light A p.wer Co.. $".A. streets, light
ing street, city boildire and fre c--tnts:
Municipal Jn-irn.-'l. ?. subscrip
tion, street account : S. V Parker, $1.5.
repairs, street sceo'tnt; N. P. Phelps Co..
Sf.ti.90. supplies, street and wat r ac
counts; Revnolds Son. -4.7n". supplies.
trt. vtcr an I t;re account : Smith.
on-.o .v o"K. ?! i r"p-ir. street
For its 1 ."th annual convention, th
Vermont State Federation of Labor met
to-day in the city where organized labor
in the Green Mountain state was cradled
some 30 years ago. Fifty-five delegates,
representing a variety of trades, were in
their seats when the convention was
called to order in carpenters' hall in the
Nichols' block this forenoon at 10:30
o'cloek. Alexander Ironside of Barre,
ecretary of the executive council, called
the convention formally to order, aftei
much of the preliminary detail incident
to organisation had occupied the execu
tive oliicers in the early forenoon. Each
delegate wore an attractive badge, spe
cially designed for the convention, and
there prevailed a feeling that the delib
erations of the labor men are to be un
usually productive of good results.
With the convention under way, Secre
tary Ironside called upon Rev. Edgar
Crossland, pastor of the First Presbyte
rian churchy to offer the invocation. Rev.
Mr. Crossland came from East Northfield,
Mjiss., where he is spending his vaca
tion, for the sole purpose of responding
to the invitation extended him by the
local committee. His praver breathed
the hope that success may crown the ef
forts of the delegates in their delibera
tions. Then City f'lork James Mackay was
called upon for an address of welcome.
Mr. Mackay acted in the unavoidable ab
sence of Mayor Robert Gordon. After
extending a hearty greeting to the as
sembled delegates, he reviewed . bit of
history bearing upon the development of
organized labor in the state. Ho recalled
his affiliation with the granite cutters of
Barre when they organized 30 years ago
and spoke of the progress made in three
decades. Samuel Gompers, he said, was
one of the first national leaders to come
to Barre and in referring to his visit the
speaker paid tribute to the federation
president's sane counsel and uninterrupt
ed service in behalf of the laboring man.
It was fitting, he went on, that the state
branch should come to Barre for its con
vention and in closing he extended the
visitors the freedom of the city during
their stay. A rising vote of thanks was
tendered the clerk as he left the conven
tion hall.
When Rev. Crossland was on the point
of departing in order to connect with the
noon train tor Northfield, Mass., he was
given a rising vote of thanks and on the
motion of Mr. Ironside, who was succeed
ed in the presiding chair by President
F. W. Suitor, the clergyman was elected
an honorary member of the state federa
tion. In making reply to the honor con
ferred upon him, Rev. Mr. Crossland said
that he carried a withdrawal aird in the
iron moulders union of Great Britain and
still retained his allegiance to organized
labor.
The report of the credentials commit
tee, presented bv William H. Eager and
signed by him and Job Long and William
Smith, showed that 49 delegates and
alternates were entitled to a vote. Oth
ers were expected to present their cre
dentials before the rollcall. The report
was accepted.
At this point Secretary Ironside of the
executive council read his annual report,
which was accepted unanimously.
Secretary Ironside's Report.
Incorporated in the report were Secre-
ary Ironside's address, as a fraternal
elegate, to the annual convention of the
Vermont Equal Suffrage association at
Springfield, and a report covering the
meeting of labor men in Boston recently
hen a New England federation of labor
was formed, Mr. Ironside being the ac
credited delegate from the Vermont fed
eration. Conditions of labor in Vermont,
acquisitions to the ranks of organized
labor, impending legislation, etc., are re-
icwed bv the secretary in a lengthy re
port that is summarized in the following
paragraphs.
Says Air. Ironside in opening nis re
port: "It is an undoubted tact that the
acre-earners of ermont are to-day bet
ter employed than ever before. While
work is plentiful in most all industries,
wages have not increased as rapidly as
has the cost of living. Soe of the best
organized industries probably have held
eir own. while undoubtedly the un
organized workingmen remain at the
same old rate and are not eo well off as
icv were one year ago. This, then, is
one of the most important conditions the
workers must be educated upon. We
have urged, and are still urging, the un
organized workers to close up their
ranks. While legislation ha made con
siderable strides in Vermont in the past
few year, all of the measures in behalf
of labor have been advanced and advo
cated by organized labor. Therefore, we
agin urge upon this convention that
when its work is done and we have gone
our several ways, we strive to perpetuate
the slogan of our grand old general. Pres
ident Samuel Gompers. "Get together.
itate. educate, and do. Don t wait
until to morrow, to-morrow never
comes."
Turning to tangible evidences of prog
ress, the secretary reports the following
new afhli'.tina: Hrattleboro cigarmakers
and t!:e protective laborers union of Rut
land. New unions are named as follows:
this
priest. Rev. P. M. M' Kenna, officiating. ' it settled into a rather deep dwlivit v. ImnA nrink!inr court : Frank McWTior-! I'.raftlcboro machinists. Burlinston elee-
retumed to their home on Spauldinz j The J-erer nere: Thomas Gavaghan. ! the car leaned easily over on its side 't.-r Co. $' 5. uniforms, fire end street ! tri. si workers, hni carriers and station-
atie.'t last night after visiting relatives ! Willis -n Skerri't. John S. Murley. .JshniThe physician crawled from nndr the j prinklin? aero'in's; Mandnrd Oil Co.. I ary fireman, and FutlanJ protective la
in Boton and visinity for the pat ixW. Ime-n. G. L. Gregorie and I'atri. k ' car. took stoik of the accident's results i01.2t, .il. srrcf a. '.:nt: rav:r; , iborrr. f the newly formed unions, the
werks. They were acoom pan ied home by M. I-anleaey. Many fathered at the jnd telephoned to a garage for (someone ( ..titracting Co.. $l.1.i. sip-di-, urfa -e inib't5-.t. proe-tie blwtw, electrical
R. I.. ,. rk. 2.7.n, up-j ork'-r an i hifj eTirs Jwve already
Air. ijesnes sister-in-law, Mrs. W alt-r, requiem rr.as and there a rronise to pun his car out of the hole. Pr. M..1ar i.wimt;
and fkon. RiYwrt f rWirvht. A! . e... I I . t .a. n f Hit made in art t-.I ineirv u n ,1 .... i 1
yho will vi-.it them for several days. tlie Catholic cemct.-rj on I-Uey stml aged but slbtij.
(Continued oa ffth I 'i'-i
(Cont.nuci oa e:gl.tb Xj )
