he
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy to-day j showers at night ;
overcast to-morrow: southerly winds.
Highest temperature yjflfrday, 79; lowest, O4.
Deluded weather, mall il
iMhevrepottson piuc If),
TWO CENTS.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 301.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 191G. VopVHBM. 101, bV Ihv flan 'rlalm;; nrtd PubUtMng tsjocltirion.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
MOOSE INDORSE
HUGHES AFTER
A BITTER FIGHT
Tliii'l.i-two roniniittecinen!
for Him. Six Ajrniust and
Nino Don't Voto.
"WE MAKE A COMMON
CAUSE," HUGHES WIRES
! TO PROGRESSIVE PARTY
noitsKVKirs action
FORMALLY IT1IFL1)
Cliiiirniiin Halo's Killing
Aprninst Hughes Defeated
Iiv :W to 15.
A l.so Sends Letter of Thanks
to Roosevelt Praising
Americanism Stand.
ATTACKS WILSON FOK
HIS COUJISK IN MEXICO
i i;ck. Juno I5. The Progressive
1 1 swung in behind Charles Uvans
HaiW for President through the action
c: ..irge .majority of the party's Na-l.o-ii'
Committee here to-day.
v ,t i a minority fighting to the last
r t, but reduced on tho vote In
d g Hughes to six negatives nnd nine
r.!,i-.i:s to vote, against thirty-two In I
fae- of tho Ilepubllcnn candidate, the
c..;ii:n.ttec took iirtlon, pledging the
pr, t to Hughes.
Tii" indorsement of Mr. Hushes, which
r- t.iken In accordance with the wishes
0! Iheodoro HookovcH, us expressed In
1-tter to tin' committee, marked the
tcmlw of tho Progressive party,
o: ;nen! of the proposal to Indorse
i,u 'M put up a stubl'orn tight. Leatl
ti ,m this side weie .Matthew Hale of
ll.is.-a. husetts. who presided as vice-
cnmimin of the committee In the lib-
till, i.f Victor Mutdock, the chairman:
liain'Tlilgc Colby of New York, who held ,
Me proxy or tne committeeman irom
Kl iriila Col. John M. Parker of l-ouis-i
a. wio was nominated for Vlce-Pres-Ideiit
l.y the Progressives, and Henry
Cvchtms of Wisconsin.
I.iirllelil Lends lliiuhfa Men,
Mr rjarflelil was the lloor leader for
it.' Hushes forces. Clear ge W. Terklns
ff New York and Chester II, Howell of
Call'ii-nia also urged the indorsement of
HtKVs,
Charles H. Huylice, gratified at the letter
of Indorsement tent to the Progressive
National Committee by Theodore Itoosc-
xen. acsj.aiciiiu n messenger irom inii
Hotel Astor for Ovater Hay last eve-1
nlng carrylnB a letter of thanks to the
Colonel.
"No one Is more sensible than I of the )
lastliiK Indebtedness of the nation to vou
for the tiulckcnitig of the national spirit, 1
for tho demand for an out nnd out lot)
per cent. Americanism," wrote the lie
publican Presidential nominee to the
man who had declined the nomination of
the lrosTesslvcs. Another phrase was.
"I want you to feel that I wish to have
all the aid you nrc able arid willing to
Rive."
There was a rumor at Hughe head
quarters lKSt night that Mr. Hughes had
also sent to Col, lloosevelt uh Invitation
to lako luncheon with him one day In the
very near future. Mr. Hughes declined
either to Htllrni or deny this report. It
was assumed that If the Invitation Is ac
cepted the meeting will take place at
Tremedden, the candidate's temporary
home at llrldKehampton, to which he will
return this afternoon.
Wires Thanks fo Proitrel r,
Mr. Hughes also sent last night t O,
K. Davis, secretary of the Progressive
National Committee, a long telegram In
which he thanked the Progressives for
their Indorsement and gave expression to
the most extended statement of his views
which he has mado since his nomination.
The telegram left no doubt of the fact
that the Hopubiican candidate Is un-
Hughes Tells Colonel '
of Nation's Debt to Him
Charles K. Hugher, yesterday sent
the following letter to Theodore
Koosevelt
"Hotel Astoii,
"New York City, June 26. 191".
"Mr Dkaii Colonel Hoosevklt: I
warmly appreciate the cordial letter
of Indorsement which you have sent
to the Progressive committee. .o
one is nunc sensible than 1 of the
lasting Indebtedness of the nation to
you for the quickening of the na
tional spirit, for the demand for an
out and out one hundred per cent.
Americanism and for the Insistence
upon the Immediate necessity of a
thoroughgoing preparedness, spiritual,
military and economic.
"I am In this campaign because of
my conviction that we must not only
frame but execute a broad construc
tive programme, nnd that for this
purpose we must have n united party
a party Inspired by Its great tradi
tion and reconsecrated to Its loftiest
ideals, t know that you have been
guided In this emergency by the sole
desire to be of the largest sirvice
to the I'lilted Suites. You have
sounded forth the trumpet that shall
never call retreat. And I want you
to feel that 1 wish to have all the aid
that ou are able nnd willing to give.
I want the most effective cooperation
with all those who have been lighting
by your side. Let us work together
for our national security nnd for the
neare of r chtcousness and Justice.
"I enclose a copy of my telegram
to the committee. In which 1 have
set forth mv attitude. I shall later
undertake a full discussion of the
lilies of the campaign.
"Hoping that I may have the
treasure of seeing otl at an early
day 1 am, my dear Colonel lloose
velt, with cordial regards, Faithfully
vours, CHAltLrs K. HfoilES."
$500,000,000 NAVY,
NEW BUILDING PLAN
Daniels and Senators Ajrrpo to
Change Five Year to Three
Year Programme.
PJtKSIDKXT IS HACK OK IT
WILSON, READY TO ASK CONGRESS TO
ACT, GIVES CARRANZA TIME TO YIELD;
4 NEW YORK REGIMENTS GO TO-DAY
5co
Way Mapped Out to Provide
Additional Personnel
Required.
Kntrainini; Hold Vp by
Shortao of Uailroad
ltolliii Stock.
Wasuinotov. .tune Id. Following 1
conference nt the "Navy Department to
day between Secretary Daniels nnd I siivi'll I ll
navnl adviser and Senators LoiVie, Till-' ' ''""
man and Swnnson. sub-committee of the i
Senate Navnl Committee. It wns decided ,
to urge n substantial Increase In the
naval building programme. Secretary I
Daniels's live year plan wilt bo lushed
to completion In three years If the tecum
imndatlon Is adopted by Congnt-s. Piei.'
, dent Wilson Is strongly b.ickltK lb s
'jiroposal. '
The plan for four supetdreailn'ii:M
battleships and four battle trul-eis.
adopted by the donate Mib-rommlttc f 'r
this ear building piogramme. has not
been changed . Ill fact, the nl chance
in the building programme for tills le.ir
s an Increase In the number of destrovers
to twinty. - I lilt the crowding of the en
tile building programme of live ve.ns
Into three amounts to nlmost doubling
the naval Increase, and calls for the e.x-
jiendlture of 1500,000,000.
The ynvy In I Dill.
SLKKl'IOIi SITI'LY
TOTALLY INADEQUATE
Seventy - first,!
Fourteenth and Forty
seventh to Start.
(SOW WHITMAN MAKES
KOFNDS OF AH MONIES I
Various Other Auxiliary
Commands Heady to He
Moved to Drownsville.
f i ti.... In itpbtMnn'u rntnnplif
sit Ion laws, in wise conservation of our ship-. If the recommendation Is n'Mited-
national resources, so that they may be
protected, developed anil ued to the
utmost public advantage. Hut underl
Ing every endeavor to promote socl.il
justice Is the Indispensable condition
that there shall be a stable foundation
for honorable enterprise.
"American Industry must have proper
protection If labor Is to be safeguarded.
We must rescue our Instrumentalities
of interstate and foreign commerce, our
tr.insnortathm facilities, from uncer-
we muni snow
Now York's troops will not begin
to entrain for the Mexican Ixirder un
til thH morning. No amount of plan-
nine nnd hard work by (len. Wood's
Iti January 1. 1919. the Cnlted statif UtafT or hv On. fVIIvan's staff rniild
navy will be composed of tho foll ' .... . offk.l.ru '-..54 I men. 2.015
Twenty-seven battlcwhlps of the llrst , ri..rfes and mule and " vehicles of
line
Six battle cruisers.
Twenty-live battleships of the second
line
Ten armored cruistrs
Tliliteeti hcout cruisers
Five llrst class cruiser
Three Mvnnd class rrulsets
Ten tlilid class cruisers.
One hundrud and e!tht deslrovei-
Fltliteen fleet submarines.
One hundred and tlfty-seven coaM sub-
on l ie si te of a Hughes Indorsement.
The b.it'le was opened by Haln-li-
i.e Colby with the nomination of
V ' - .Murilock of Kansas to Mil the
ra ill. y left by Itoosevclt's declination
cf e Progressive Presidential nomina
te i Kayinoiul Iloblna of Illinois quos-t.r-.ei
the willingness of Murdock to
rui and the discussion reacneu tno
re ed stage before the nomlnntlon came
nuallfledly for adequate national pre
puredness and that the hyphenates need i (IlK.tlu. tIlergleV
J lm V Mcurath, whose only connec- ,.x,,fCt no quarter from him. It criti
n? xb l'r",!rSB:iVeiirii ' clsed the Wilson Administration In em-
Md n'veral proxies and several times phatlo terms nnd gave Indorsement to
l-turirpied proceedings to put In a word b0ttle of the measures which the I'rogies-
sives have advocated most vigorously.
With tils secretary, Lawrence 11
Oreen. and Public Service Commissioner
Travis II. Whitney. Mr, Hushes re
mained in his suite from 6 o'clock to 9:30
o'clock last night, keeping In close touch
with jirooeedlnKs In the Progressive
that as we uo rorwaru we niui nrnn
epubllcan party the instrument or
f, the final vote was taken 111 Chicago. ur advance. We want rteeils, not
,md the telegram was sent a lew nunuirn worus , r.ir rearning nainuwu i.uiuiei..
lulnte :m,l eonfUH.on.
that we know how to protect the public marlm
without destroying or crippling our pro- six monitors.
Twenty gunboats,
i Four suwih ships, fifteen fuel ships
llns .iit lir .Nntloiml (tutlooU. Four transports, three tenders to tor-
"To what agency shall we look for the l'ilo vessels.
'...,! cn,r.,r,?c,.e nror..r,.m on Ktght vessels of special type and two
nltirUnV'Vt' '"rom ""SrM. bas had much to '
1 i v' "rUVVm do with pushing the advocacy of this ,
not the national outlook. Hoth Its tradl- , building ..r.wramme despite opposition ,
. . . ..i , from "little navv men." Is much pleased
handicaps. I have with the outcome ff the confereiue to- , mllitu com
utter. Wc. atgto elect a. .lTwldent. ol1 day. Oftlcrs of the Oeriernl equipment,
the whole country, not .rf a part. The that the Administration has at last taken
South.' as well i North. Btutt and a .u.nd which P-m ,oat he Crdled
the command under Immediate or-
i ders started last night. It was n dis
appointment nil around to the re
sponsible officers here and to the Im
patient chiefs In Washington but '
tlu re was no help for It. '
New York's militia organizations
; that had been selected for early Held
1 service the Seventh, Seventy-llrst, '
I Fourteenth nnd Forty-seventh regl-
I merits, together with various auxiliary
commands were ready for the com
mand to start, but the wheels stayed
floured The on lisp fur delay was laid,
llrst, to the failure of the railroads to
provide enough sleeping cars, nnd sec-
A Palomns Boundry JuarczfESTEX,
A ""ljyfZ I
111 f -tat 1 yllli 1 !. I
B Fronts rax LeonfV, Tf mt nV ! .x i
O S$ JQRincoh. 0EIO40 1
V r. . rV ..cf0
No .Mediation Until Troop
ers Are Freed, Washing
ton's Stand.
MI ST HEI'UDIATE
OHDEHS OF THEVINO"
I Lansing States Case Flatly
to Holivian Minister
"Outlook t.rave."
LATIN AMEHIf ANS
THY TO AVEHT WAK
rrv:r ,Th,rr!o,mm,,wd,e! rz "sta
t',i later carried through the Hughes '.n'l vote was taken In Chicago. llur a
West, will be the gainers from our en-
I deavors. Hut It is soner truui as i see u
Lvl ement.
T e resolutions mapping the party's
f-ur-e in the campaign were drawn up
tri submitted by James It, Gartleld of
Or . They were ns follows :
Whereas the statement Issued by
th C'unrnlttei. In January and the
rUtfu-m adopted by the Progressive
nitioti.il convention set forth that, put
ting aside all partisan considerations
In v.w uf existing world and national
C'"ditions, we would work with any
rr.n or party who saw the nation's
need and put forth a leader lit to meet
It a ii. 1
Whereas we believe w Ith Col.
I; osevelt that In the nomination of
Charles K. Hughes of New York the
Ileiiubllcan party has put forth such a
teadir, we Indorse anil concur in the
attitude of the staff officers was
State navy In Ils proper position with that Hie railroads were most at fault
THE LINEUP IN MEXICO.
TN the above map the position of the American troops which have
been withdrawn from the Xnmiiiuipu positions is indicated by thi
heavy broken lines. Hen. IVn-hinj: has concentrated larce lorccs nt
KI Vnllc and Colonin Ihibhm. The Mexican forces are concentrated
nlonir the Mexican Central Railroad with heavy forces at Villa Ahu
mada nnd Moctezuma. In the fifty mile belt between, indicated by
arrows, scouting parties of both forces are operating and may chub.
Brownsville, where the New York militia is uointr, is indicated on the
small map. The Massachusetts and New Jersey men are Roini: to
El Paso.
VILLA AHUM AD A MAY BE
SCENE OF FIRST BIG BATTLE
of the result.
I'len for it Common t'nuie.
The despatch to Mr Davis follows
"Hotel Astoii, New York city.
respect to the navl. of other llrst class ,hroUKh thl.,r fa,ro In lumMnbln any-. Qf ML,XK.an FOI'C'GS Tliei'l' Is RepOllO(l-
No"ecret Is made of tlie fact that th where near the number of Pullman b r M . o'W
thre-.itened war with Mexico has hid i-.-ping ear- r tourist sleeping oars Pei'Slling Withdraws 1' I'O 111 xStimiqUipU hai(l lO
He Sending Large Force West.
much to do with bringing the Admlius-
' trll..M li thn realization that both the
June 2i,
1911.
..n.... in thn roullz.itlnii th.1l both the til
. , i-..mi.i. ,.i,nm,i! . on armv anil tne navy snouiu ue uniusiii i" or ,uuu 10
ettlcient adinlnisttatloii. I Iel,l to no a high point of efflniency within a rex- , Ul th j,order.
one In that demand. I am eager to rail , sonanle time, rresi.ient vvuson u:gen
the l?.st "bill y of the country to aur the adoption of the present programme
' . ' " L ..... ... .1.- I lifter the recent Wh te House conference.
a ,m X Fxellve Is rt "re-1 wheie W l T"
snonslble. nnd there Is no excuse what- strongly and volute,! out thai the .e i-
it wcie required for the cruelty trip
ou hot and dusty miles
. . .. , i. . ,.-l : V .. .. ord UrvirH nnd tifAPllMl V nil IIIO 1111'
O. K. Doiu. "crn,y " , ' ner for the to eration ot mil pcience . ... ,S; n;)r,fll ,,ml,,,nu.
ttonni tooimi.it.. , nri.r , ,ausiy p.vrusao .mimk.ii uos, - ",. , )f ,hiu.,. ,..mmp..,i
Chicago, III; , "l am deeply appreciative or l'r " ;
"I welcome the support of Pn'gres- , do , , flnu difference In b the House m,.M.il
slves. We make common cause . ; th, 1 r , aim which preclude the , In order to pe th. P . P -ed
.... -.1....1... ,f Vi.. r.tllrnait
l-rom tin swwnii.i". . June ; For the 1 ist tot ty-1 shnig's lleli he.idquaiters iml.. .ai. I tint
cfricial.s the c.iuse of delay has to do r.i. um, June b " ' , f ,
with the slowness ot the Covvrnmen eight hours the border has be. n al ve Vam )Jm (o th vU,(nl . of (,o)oma
in providing ni-'e.ss.iry Mipioir-t.,ir-es
to the waiting rommands
Will Tr to iel wuy Tii-Uii. t
... V V..-1, I
As matters now siniiu. ine - unim
Interest of natloiml honor, of national (nOHt h(.,4rty cooperation ami the most
security, or national cmciemy. r ui.. ,,ompPtn unity. It Is wunin tne party
In the demand for an undivided and un-, ,hat (m, nj.erallrlng spirit you Invoke
wavering loyalty to our country, for a ran ,llvft ,he w,est and most effective
whole hearted patilotlc devotion over-, nuPnr0. I solicit your earnest effort
i.ii,.,. ...it racial differences. Wo want a' ,,, cause.
iuili e liiui'ise aim iwiii-iii hi win ,,-, " .,,.n,, . ' , ..
recommendation of Col. lloosevelt that I revival of the American spirit a natlo , Charles h. HvnilKs,
! restore u,;on t and ,
To t'oopernlr With lluKhe. , fence, upon ... J SHAGKLETON FAILS
fieolirrf. That we hereby d hect the 1 "! L....i, f i,,trn.-itlonal law. . UllflUllIJlJ 1 Wll fllUU
Butlonal executive committer to co- I ,.ThR m.ist serious dlltlcultles the pres-
e;rjte with Mr. Hughes and take any j e)t administration has encountered have
steps which they deem proper effec- b . aue j0 jtg own weakness and Incer-
tivsly pi prosecute tht campaign.
Hetoh'd. That wo leave to the State
eommlttees the determination of action
TO RESCUE COMRADES
In their resptctlve States and recom
mend that whatever action they take
Pe tak:i after conference with the na
tional executive commmlttet.
i nm nrofoundlv convinced that
by prompt nnd decisive action, which
existing conditions manifestly called for,
.the I.usitanla tragedy would have been j ct! ats HIS ItollOf Slll)
I "W.. ktronnlv denounce the use of our
.ii ua a base for alien Intrigues, for
ihrnnrh unirr.i-ieM and the fomenting of dls-:
the eomtnlr.i-emcn lined up as follows on ! orders in the Interest of any foreign na-j
tli resolution: I tion. but the responsibility lies Ht the
leas-Alabama. Arizona. Arkansas, door of the n''.,
C. 'irnla. Colorado. Connecticut. Ills- i notice Is admitted re9i.ons h mt Is f-
continue If the Administration Iook ( ft ,e,,Kram rcnt from I'ort Btan
proper measures to . . . ,- . v,Hterdav says he returned there
sponslDlliiy me Auiiiiiusu iiuiMi ' v - ...-. .
evade by condemning others 1 from an attempt to reach hlephant Isle,
v.-ith rumors of further lighting between
troops of C.cn. Pershing's command and
Carrana forces, but the reports lack
confirmation In either Mexican or Amer
ican official channels.
The sending of large forces of Car
raiiza troops westward as well as north
ftom Chihuahua has been continued and
wlille the border rumors of lighting have
placed the trouble In the vicinity of
Villa Ahumada it Is considered by Amer
ican army officers that there might have
been a clash by Mexican forces moving
Forty-seventh! westward to tho south of Persuings
the efficiency of the personnel Itegimeiit. which will march across the " t".hu., WHUld ,, , ,,P
The plat, which Secretary I.anleW has , ,., 1!r,,g,. and Manhattan to ,.s Known that nlno Mex-
decided to recommend Is for the p-onio- ' ,,,(1iI,.ll fl,rrv. hopes to bo "mt. ... 1 ',nJ hnv been sent north.
tion or on.cer u,n , , .- . i.Nlu-trPnt, 1 . -rIt,d lo.nlL-ht that
board of live Hear Admirals will be ap
ct.tnni.inds under marching orders will
partinent Is already considering means 1 try to get a way to-tlay mc seveniu
to supply the additional officers and imn 1 itfKitni-nt hope I" leave Jersey City
on the Pennsylvania llalircut at iu
A. M Tho Seventy-ursi i-xpecin n
New iitk en-
Ixtleth street and Hlev-
th;it will be needed. It Is exin-ctetl ih.it
Congress will Increase the enlisted
.... r , nf,i, ...
strength oi mo ottvy imi - ,,,.i f,r,, th
7i nnu r.,.. ,.,! In Ihe meinll.iw Sene- get st.irteil IlOtll 111
..... t,.,iu.u t,u n.iT,r.,rr.il u-lth n.ie.,1 tral yards at
..j u ...i-.ti.A tr. . ntv rnrm .if in.i- ...ith iiveitue somt time is'tween
iiiotlon which he believes will Improve . i n,i tloon. Tilt
the Car-
mander to ue maun oy seiec o i .v , " " "" . ,.jliln i-...nninL. ....... .-r., nlannlne to seize the
1 )..... k'.i at In ii .it,! urn rn llni til I lilt III
Says Hope Must Not
He Almndoned.
tnci of Columbia, (leorula. Illinois. In
d na. Iowa, Kan.a.s. Louisiana, Maine,
Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Ne
b'aska, Nevada. New Hampshire, New
J"". New York, North Dakota,
Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South
lukota. Texas, Vermont. Virginia,
Wvoniliig. Hawaii. Total 32..
N'ays Idaho, Kentucky, Montana,
Nor'h Catolina, Ithode island, Utah,
Tettl. t.
I'e lining to Vote Florida, Massa
fhun'i MHslssiiipl, Wisconsin, Mis-
u. : Oklahoma, South Carolina,
W lilng' iii, West Virginia, Total, 9,
.Vprint Cablt Vetpntrh In Tns Srs
London, June 2. Sir Krnest Shackle-
' hut greatly regrets to tie unable to rescue
his twenty-two comrades left In an Ice
hole. The Ice conditions, he says, were
much more difficult than In his previous
pointed to make these selections when-1
ever there Is n vacancy in the rank of
Captain or above. The normal flow of
promotion by seniority will apply to all
grades below Captain, according to tho
Navy Department's v'an
Inerrftse of Officers.
railroad
The time of departure of the other , J-re, ami operiite t a ;-;..
nmmanils - the Third Ambulance
... . ,..i. ,. t.-in..i Tl.,,lt,,1 .in,l th,.
I orps, llie runt i it-.i. - I lull Pi
First Ikitt.lliotl of l-.llgineers win ir u (H
to get away from Camp Whitman nnd I arB,
Pecklll some time, miring mo uu
was not definitely Ilxetl, The samo
fiilellnltemss ns to time of de
parture applies to the First ll.Utery.
Field Artillery, the First Hattalhm of
tho Slgn 'l Corps and the First Scitiail
rnn of the l'lrst Cavalry. They want
to get away to-day If possible.
The InaMllty of the New York troops
to move last night disappointed great
Cnlttd States of Ihu line for relief of
. I tleii. Pershing
To provide an Increasn of oltleers com
mensurate with tho Incrense of the en
listed men Secretary Daniels' recom
mendation Is that the otllcers shall con
stitute i per cent, of the personnel, Con
gress will be expected to make the In
crease In the grades selected, stipulating,
for example, that there bo so many Com
manders and Lieutenant-Commanders In
the service, and then the flow of promo
tion, It Is said, can be taken cure of hv
the Navy Department. The exact detail
of this plan have not yet been worked
attempt laat Miy In a South Georgian I ou.' ,nr mov, toward Increasing the
Of !
v
w
tl
ll,
Indictment of Menlean Policy.
"It was ottlclally stated by the Secre
tary of State In the Mexican note of Juno
20, 111, that 'for three years the Mexi-
.. .I.IU t.na ,..,., 1 t.rn tt'lllt 1 V 1 1
strife the lives of Americans and other' whaler He says that he has not nbuti-l pr(,p,,rdness of tho navy, announced to
aliens' have been sacrificed, vast prop-1 tloned hope of saving them. . h p,.cretary Daniels, Is the tie
i .itl.s develoned by American capital I The explorer says he encountered a ' f Nllvy i),.,iartmot to en
. .. I,.,,... I,n ,lwlr. ,l ,r I il,..im of len Sixty miles liortn Ot lle- , f n rertnln nom
' ..i.Tetl noi'i-iiroductlve : bandits have i.hant Isle, passed this successfully and' ' . I)rlva,,.y built motor l.onta of
been permitted to roam at will through I reached within twenty miles or trie isi-, , d 0n,r characteristics .is
"" 1 .u , o. ..... i i.,,. .....in,- tn thn Imnenetrable lce- ,rl"" ' .,,,, fJ
territory connguous io mt. t nuei, ouim
antl to seize, without punishment or
without effective attempt at punishment,
the property of Americans, while the
lives of citizens of the United States
. . ..t... ..onttiiwl to remain In Mexican tel.
ti.il Committee had no power to or , return there to protect their
e t ie . .uidldate of un oiher party rtu have been taken. In some cases
ii miti. u overruled tho chair hv a , (,arbarously taken, nnd the murderers
i ij in IS, however, and the de- j-'-.-p' neither been apprehended nor
o ntiiutnt was reduced to stnte- .,... i.roueht to Justice,
mumhii ,.n lotiicinieni nv l ie .vumin
Istratlou or us .vicxie .o punt') rti.u there is nope ot a miii . nlxty-nve reei .o.ik, ii.tt mt. ei-.-.-i, ... ..,,.,
. ..l ,1...... ........ . . ... . ..,n nt, .l.u n.lnr. tt tlm lrt . . ... . .t.l.... u,n,.,,A ..,M.i mi "
Still ve are uiiiirep.ii .-u. in.n uuin - ue saw- 1'eiiKniu" wu -
wuuiu nt4(,iit-i,,."i,i
.,ls,. s.ild that Pei.shlng is moving
..... f.ircu rauidlv from his base at
l olonla Dubbin In the direction of Villa
Ahumada and that a name nei.-.-i,
largo American and Mexican forces at
that point before all invasion occurs
fioin III Paso Is not unllkelj
l'osslble liivasloii From 111 I'liso.
Orders to prepare for 2S,0flil militia
men ttt III Pas" swamped the tpiarter
master's force hero this afternoon The
oltleers received oruers yesieni.tj n. i'i.
Dublan. his tirst Mexican headqu.trtei s.
It was fir. cast in Tin- Stw despatch
some tl.t ,it:o that the Pershing base
would be tlx.d at Colonia Dublan. but
tlii was at the time that (Sen. Peishlrig
and Hen C.avlra w ere conferring. Subse
tpielit ilev.'loplliellts have place. the en
tile situation in a new light and It was
thought here that Pershing would hold
moie of I. Is camp.
Despatches from the Peishing base
col tlr'iietl In a measuie the Mexican as
sertltms tn-day that they had regarri
sonisl Sun (leronlmo and llachlnaba,
"following their abandonment by tho
Americans." These positions sre both
neir Namhiuipa.
Vlt.re I.IkIiI tin t'nrrlxiil.
Dcsp.it. iies fioin t'hlhu.ihua, permitted
by the v'.irrani.i ten-or to be passed, i
ciintr.nllcted Carr.inza claims that tho
Am. 'iu-. in force at Cirilz.il was not pui
sued by tho Carranzlstas. The censor I
permitted a correspondent to send a .
story to the border to-day quoting Pri
vate v . D. Cllison, vne of the prisoners,
as saying that the Americans were pur- ,
sued many miles to Lis Hutiicr and :
wero in.ulo prisoners while trying to I
make their way to KI Paso. They were'
captured, he said, because their horse
('apt. Morey. Wonmled. a
Carriiil Survivor Uoyd's
Notes Found.
Cirraiiza tnust comply at once with
I the ilcmiinds of the L'nltcil Stale. for
the release of the American trooper
held ptininer at Chihuahua city nnd
e. uliate the older of len. Trevlno
I . foro theie can be any prospect of a
ttaecful solution of the present crisis.
Plain Intimation f this effect was
given In Washington vesterday by Sec
rttary Lansing to tho Holivian Min
ister. President Wilson expei is a reply to
Ins demands within the in t two or
thlee days. If It Is a refusal the Pies
Ident will lay the matter before Con
gtess for atithoilty to take whatever
sieps he may deem nectssary.
Administration officials foresee tho
possibility that Carranza may make
Ids answer a declaration of war and
the concentration of Curan.a troops
near Chihuahua city Is leganlctl as
ominous.
Meanwhile the Mexican Frnbnmy
holds, out hope that Cari.itia will
m ike every ellott to nvnnl a clash, and
the View Is '.pros.s,.,l that if theie is
war the initiative must i.e taken by
I President Wilson
I. (tin Ameilcaii il.. oin.t's n Wash
.uti.li, following the t "life! en.'f be
tween Secret ti I. in .un and the
Holivian .Minister, have .itlv.sid their
lovernnients to urge Cti i.tir... tn com
ply with tho American tleniands.
Special Fnlti'tl States Itepl est ntativ e
i P.odgers at Mexico city mlv isetl the
1 State Department that In had been
' unable to locate (Jen. Ctndido Aguilar,
I the Mexican Minister ot Foreign IV -j
latlon. for the purpose of pi' scntltig
the Fniteii States demands.
len. Pershing notltled the War l)c-
partinent of tlm return tt. . ,iiii of
'apt. Moie), oil" of the eoininanillng
iilllcers engaged 111 tht light at Car
lizal. who was wouniled, and of the
recovery of the note Isiok belonging
to Capl. Uovd. win. was killed. This
note book coulalntsl a carbon copy of
' the note lloytl sent tt. the Jefe politico
at Carrlz.il, asking pcrmlsismn tn go
I through the town nnd also the leply of
i (!en. Come, the Mexican commander,
proposing the parlcv
I The United Slates ! V eniin. nt h.ls
I put Into tiled an informal iml tem
poral y criib irgo on the shipment of all
kinds ol sup pile. Including foodstuffs.
Into Mexico,
I Administration ultlt nils .ire expect
I Ing to have a force of at h ist 'o.nno
National Cuardsmn on the l.rdi-r
within two week. If hostilities begin
it Is planned to Irivo the America .
forces seize alt railroads m nor'her'i
Mexico mill i.rncit'il lapldlv toward
to rest ue the Aintic.in
lit errnlliiK of the Clinlr.
T'lr teolutions hail to pass the hurdlo
iulit- by Vlce-chalinmti Matthew
f Mainichmetts, who presided over
moling of the full committee and
w is one of the Irreconellables, that
a li's f r Hie teeitra noil ileinaoils for
,6 1 .s mi every Kiiggestion made from
1 c iii to the end of the meetinK.
' Ji'hu M Parker, who was left
ii: .. i ,ii y ,,s tint Progressive noinl-
fur i I'lesiilenl, showed sign of
(' .' ' 'loni the llrsl fall of the gavel,
II" it irei that he had given up the
'''I r i l ,i of the Democratic cum
L' "ee ,f Lnii siana to enter (lie Progres-
' fnur years ago on the nssur-
" e ih.it ii would he pcnnincnt and
rre ! ll,,- keenest tlUalMMllnl Uielll .it
bonier legions, and the crush was so
oininoii that the police reserves had
to be called into action.
Throughout tho Department of the
. ilnlnvil CVmi-
and, but owing to the Impene rable , Ic. -, 1 k. ,m,,n ,,, for ,,.llr0, ,Mls ' f r" , Mn.-M.irlius.-ttH got off
bergs and tho high northwestern swell f Xlv0 craft ,.mi,0dyg , nnn.W from m.i
found It Impossible to proceed. ; 'h'oehief characle.lstlcs which the Navy bo"rs lor ' 1 ,l . M, ,
The Ice. according to Sir Frnwt, rtI11,,nt desires already have been ncctlciit men could no t,et tart. . , im
stretched In cnnccnt form from west- !,;J'r""rd ..ses of delay being tho same as ham-
northwest through the south to north-!1 x ll(iat , , t, i,.s k,,,,, forty ,IP,ed cntnilmneiit here Inability to
east, the two horns belnt? sixty iiiIIch fp(,t )n icnKti, ftn,i having a ' ,, ,..,, railroad eiiilpmetit untl tie.
. tt.- i.ijinil This winter's Ice con- I " . . n,nn i,. o,,....ii,... .int. 1 ' . .. n,
iit'in n.o - - - speen oi not if" ..... ...j . . . . .mug siippio".
dlllons are so bad. he sais, that the mB por nnur nnd costing MS.ono I'' 111 111
...-,.,..,1.1 tihli'h nsseml.leil at tho Penn-i ,,. s .inn and were going leisurely
svlvanla Station ami at the New York i llll()Ul tt)Cir tturk, secure In the know I
Central yards at .Sixtieth street. At i ,at they coulj have ; the sites laid
,i, p,.iinv van a Station pronauiy i-,- t.ui aim toe
A,. ....,,, LMthere.l to cheer tho . the militiamen arriveu
'1 ... . .
The rush orders
to-day to prepare, tor live nines m,u
number caused a scurry for laboicrs
and a rush upon real estate men to get
available camp sites.
The Fort lllls reservation i not f
fcUlllclent size to accommodate 2f.,0U0
soldiers Military men took the orders
t..re worn out from the loin- rlili.
Previous to the battle, whereas the Mexl- ' Uhlhuahna
can mounts weio fresh itft.son iniitle prisoners.
the following st.itt nieiit lelative to the; New Jetsev had the honor of start
battle. I Ing the first troops ir,.m the Mast to
"At Santo Domingo four Mexicans I ,ht. Ml,U(.,m ,,or,, A ,, !., lt 0f
, -atitat-iTriz:;! '' "f y
had four machine guns. It was ,..,.. lory. tvvt. tioops of cuvalrv. a Held ho,
klped that tlie-e Mexicans had warned 1 Idtal and on iiinlni. nice t urps en
Capt. Hoyd that he had better turn back, trained nt Sol Cirt l ist night
but I don't know- if there was an truth Massachusetts regiments I . t bv tlio
In thlH tidk. 1 "Fighting Ninth." started lor the Lor.
"Two miles nut of C.irrlz.il ' '" ,,,r midnight this morning under
lined up by Capt Hoyd and told we nlsh nn()j4 f(ln ,. Wli(,d
IIIIKIII liuvn f iih.i. ....fin h . , v .. ,,w ,,.
throuch peacefully, but there was onlv
one way to carry out older and Unit
was to obey them.
When the lighting stiirleii we were In
last night bi t a i.
and i'0,tilptneii'.
of slim tlge if can
to mean but one thing, and that 1 th it , . u .,),( ,inil t, .M,.x,.aus had the -i; ;,mv; i 'i'in' Will
t ..i.edltion into Mexico will go i , ,,' , ,,,, ,,.i,l brush. A" MIAHAI IU. .
the next expedition Into Mexico will go
from KI Paso by way of Juarez and
down the two railroads tunning south
and southwest The main expedition
will move over the Mexican Central to
.h n.i!h. otllters believed, as the Mex
ico Northwestern leading southwest runs
the
t'-iv!
"1
nor.iness In the mlilst of ptrll, an I
after the experiences of three years, '.
i a demonstration of nn unpardonable
neglect for which the Administration W
responsible.
"The (lovernment now has and must
have most emphatically the unstinted
! nnd patriotic support of every citizen
I the existing exigency. Hut iintiiet.
Honlnc. loyal ami p.uilolle suppm! ef
mil of Itoosovelt In urging the i ,hp (lovernment Is one thing, approvil
ment of tint party. I n, fatuous course which the Admin-
sieved In the dream held out to j Htrntlnn has followed l ipilte another.
r I ultimate rescue enn only be effecteil with hnfl 1)0(.n nmtracted for from .Ceorge f ., smrtetl. to Iho present Pershing base, and would
a wooden stenm vessel or nn ice breaker. f .iw,,y Sons Corporation of Neponet, " .""" onl). llt. M.zed nml utilized to send sup-
With regard to food Sir Krnest says Mna , larger boat, not less thnn .j., programmo of tho War Depart- tll(.M t j,ls forces. The Mexican Ceu-
' sixty-five feet long, naving a speeu tn .,,, j t.0n fo move ,uiio iroops i ,rai leans s;
lre not less than thirty statute miles per , .,. sotithwoHt last night. Prob-1 Torreon, Ati
t'' hour and costing I2S..O0O his been con- ' , , t rn th;in 3,0(io got slarlcd In city.
"'.traded for from the I.uder Marino abl I t nor i, ,,, . - , , Kvldently
'rifle construction Company of Stamford. Ui'"l' ,'1,' Americans f.
1 cannot In this message ndetiiately ie-
view that course i mat i sinui oo liner.
lleoews Pirn for Protection,
"No Intelligent man is neceiveii
by
Ihe temporary prosperity due to ahnor
... de. land, "that a third nartv
ii w.miIiI unite tlm Not III and the
emit i ' 'i i lif vital Issues of the day
' iJ i,e Drought Into btlng and con
t' " s a leal force for better govern-'r-''
The decision of Col lloosevelt
' '(.ioiis which lie uiiilinil.teilly he
's ' tie i,e-t i iii i r. -t s of tho conn
o Mi;ipori tlie nominte of the He
I ' i tri .Hid withdraw fiom the
I e h u1 iiiiinin.itlon was ,i hid blow
t' .is will .is to iii my Progressives.
" i.td the right In males such a
tv.iiniiM oii'sciiMii I'aue- tion by protecting our women and chll-
These, lit) SaVS
o.n.t i.Mboie. which consists mainly
hovrll and rations having a high calorific
.".In.. i r-nnti
' .ei. mri. Hlr Rrnest thinks, would ti,. tei, boils, when delivered, will be
upon secliw llie Ice condition- drastically ase-lgned, mm to the New York Navy Yard tlll, District of Columbia expect to Ret
economize with his etores at nn earlv , and the other to the Huston Navy Yard, Ht.,rtf., to-diy and detachments under
date and go on half rations, supplement
Ing them with penguins,
GRENVILLE KEO0H WOUNDED.
lilt Uy
Son of
,rif York Jonllce
Nliell rrnginrnfi,
Paiiis, June 2, With two pieces of
shell In Ills left forearm Crenvllle Kongo,
son of Justice Keogli of New York, re-
. , oHuianlnv frmii tlll. ttst!oii llf
" '..:...:- t .... .,.. ., .,o ...i iiiriiei. ..-'.- ."
tial connnioos. " .... . i" ,,.. f,ont where the American nmiuuiinre
appreelale ll.c gr.iv ty of thn prohlrmi ,p ' Hell.h t ,.0nrident he can
with which we shall he faced when the '; k ,h flwnlng line within a
war ends, We nie alive tn Ihe Imperi- J '
tlve neceesliy of assuring the bases of,' .,,..,,..,., i,,rrM, MeKee. grandson
honest business, i am in tieep sm-, ,lMt It,.njHi,ilii Harrison, came
oithv with Ihe effort In Improve Ihe
i'".r., . ...... I... .v,.iAi.-
wlih Keogli Mclveo Is III, hut expects
to return to the front shortly. H m
Is.rn ll) the White House.
divining the plan of tho
... ...w.h m,,l' tlll. t-.ir.
and the District of Columbia. , l ranza ofllcers are concentrating their
I'ho troops from Pennsylvania nfvest forces along the Central, ac
cording to Information reaching tno in
i.niirenfft branch of the Fulled Stales
uhere thev will be available for the In-
fei .III VfW I lanuishlre. Vermont. . nrrnv and private Indlviduali hero who
spertlon of yachtsmen and others In- Miirviand and Florida, I have tnterestji In Mexico,
terested. The Idea Is thai prlvalo t.w n- irM"' ; ' reiflment la each "nlted Slates ottlclals have had in-
r 'ZTZ case! 'may bo entrained by Wetlncsday
.ih...... ,-nin,. tn the flnvernmcnt 111 or ThursiiaV.
rase of necessity. Major-Cell, Wood, commanding tho
Department of the F. ist, s.ild Inst night
GERMANY BARS GREEK MAIL, that lm hopes to Imvo the bulk of tin-
. Natloiml Cnnrd of tin United Statca
advantage of dlt.iies ami brush.
"Hetuinlug from l.ls conference with i
tho Mexican leader. Capt. Hold gave,
his linre to his orderly and ordered us
to advance in sklrtnlehlng order and
to hold our lire until we were tired upon.
Fifteen of our men diopped on the first I
volley. Wo f-'Ught hard until we with I
about surrounded Tht n we dropped our
guns and rnn for it "
fhe woundeii from tne t arrizii name
I, nosing Insists i itrrniiit Vlust lie
liver I . s,, lrlsoners,
Wasiiiniitos'. June 21 Through U
nacio Calderon. .Minister from llollvl.i,
the Latin Anieilc.tn tllplnmats in Wash
ington were given to understind to.tlay
by Secretary Lansing th.i il.i. United
uro to be brought' to the base hospital j .mt,., wa not disposed at this tune to
hem lit once, ncinrtllng to otllci.u in
formation received nt the fort to-day
from (Jen, Pershing. The work of en
larging the hospital was Marled to-day.
Tho annex Is being constructed of lum
ber with tent roofs,
run vi no closing in.
,iinoiioee the Suspension of I'nsinl moving toward tbo bonier by the close
of tile wei'K. I..- is senium itn.ij it'se
mnntu iit iH-iice stlcnglh because ho
Coiiiiuunlcntlnn.
Sptrfot CM, llr'l-lUt, fuTllS Stx
AMSTKRPAM, via londoii. June 2H
riermany. according in a despatch from
Merlin, has announced the suspension of
all postal rnniiiiunlcatlon with llreeee,
Malls already incepted are In be re
lume marked "N mn o? forwsH-Inf."
holds It Is better to nave, small regi
ments of trained men at the bonier
than to lnve largo regiments of partly
tifilrnlnctl men.
Though Ihe Twenty-third Infantry I
CnnHiiuc.l on 7'nlrd Vapt,
formation since yesterday tnai
iroons wheh auantioneu .mare
Friday had Intrenched themselves at
Villa Ahumada.
A. J. Mctjuatters, an American mining
man with Interests In Mexico, received
private advices this afternoon renin m
Ing Ihe report that Mexican tump trains
were moving north out of Chihuahua
rlly. Ills advices stated that "nlno
train of troops went north to-day, and
until the troops, are all moved we can
not catch a train to the !onler"
In view ot recent declarations of
United Stales omclnls reg.iullng the
location of American troops In Mexico
pome iurprlu wm preisd here to-day
when presa despatches from den. Per-
the I !,.,, tiriiernl Warns I',
last ' . .
Not
entertnln nny proposal of mediation be
tween this lioveriiment niil Mex co.
Although discouraged by the .lehulf,
thn Latin American ieprentatlves at
conferences among themselves later In
thn day agreed to sk their Uoveniments
to urge (Jen. t'arranza to give a atis.
factory aliawcr a posslbln to the de-
lllalld tor .the lele.lse of the priSt.nelH
held at Chihuahua and for a statement
ns ro his futur UlSe of ll.-tlllll
It is uiidei stood tint similar nihu'it
was sent
to Mevleo city li.-lilgllt by
ClIllU'Allix, Mexico, June 2ii Upon
Ihe evacuation of San lienxnltno and
ii... t,i lie tt.n Anietic.to Iroons. who
...,.t ti,.. uiiitheriiniiMt nolnt of the Cllseo Arrcdohdn. Mexican A ml. tssadul'
district they tsvuiib further noith. , designate, win. wis piescnt ,.i several
tfen. Trevlno occupied these points anil of tho confeit es
,..,,ineert lll.lt UIIV llttel.ll.t of Hell Should the leplv be s itu it Till) s.llis.
I'ershlmr s men to iciuin south win nn , factory w nieiat "
ontsised bv force
Five of the six Xnieilc.tii negro troopers
ho were taken pilsoners fter the Car
rlzal tluht wete brought lieu to-day
They aie John Wilson, lieoign ,M Chap
lin, Thomas Hopkins, Thomas M liar
field ami W D, C.llwnn.
tllst'd
by tho at'.iik mi the Mil."' a" iroop
at I'arrU.tl and Insure the Mnerlc.iii .
forces .iga.ust future atfi of Hie kind
the offers of mediation i be nuwed.
Minister Ciltlei -n ile i state
nepnrtment b.v app nt .en' at 2 !S
o'clock this afteino.iK n tho
