RELEA SE TROOPERS IN 48HOVRS- U. S. TO CARRANZA
FINAL
WLOtlft.
"ClrcuUtlon hook Open to Alt."
I "Ctrrttttitlon llonUa Oprn to Aft."
PKIOE ONE CENT.
CorrifM. win, tf r- raMiM
., (Th Tfk tfMl(.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 1010.
18 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
CDTOV
FIRST N. Y. TROOPS GO TO BORDER
7TH, 7 1 ST AND 1 4TH AWAY, 3,500 STRONG
liU Samuel L. William.
(Special Staff Correspondent of The Evenlnjj World.)
WASHINGTON, Juno 27. Wlthlu forty-eight hours Carranza must
reply to tho demands of tho United Statoa, rtloaso the ovoatcon prisoners
taken at Carrlzal and bntlsfactorlly stato Ills futuro course of action.
If he refuses or attempts evasion, diplomacy will bo superceded 1mm e-
THE 7TH REGIMENT ON THE WAY TO PENNSYLVANIA FERRY
I t l ... I i i ... . t.l i . ... I .
( ... 1.1.
Wj TA , K, .r ,t.,.i L', . ,J.-l.wm. . SSI I I in I. J.I I II .1.
1 I
mSMSBSUSlKmSmi(hnmnh nrrrmno mm it
WWmFm l&F 1 rn"" 1 utrmuo
m f Mill m TO HOLD U. S. SOLDIERS IN
FROM ARMORIES TO TRAINS
The 14th Leaves From Peekskill
Camp 69th and 22d May Start
for Border To-Morrow 47th Is
Still Waiting.
ONLY DAY COACHES WERE
PROVIDED FOR REGIMENTS
dlately by force. President Wilson will go before Congress, atato tho acts
and obtain ample authority for free cxecutlvo action.
Within another twenty-four hours Gen. Pershing's forco, doubled In
number by reinforcements of regulars, will march to rosoue by force tho
rlsoncrH at Chihuahua.
The United States Government will
repeat, In effect, to tho Mexican Gov
ernment tho famous phrnso used by
3n. Grant to Confederates parloylng
for tlmo before Fort Donaldson In
1182: "I propose to move on ytfur
works nt daybreak."
No Intimation him como from Car.
ranra as to his reply or his inten
tions. Jnmci Unn Hodgors, Rpeclal
United States Agent in Mexico City,
telegraphed the Stato Department
that on Monday ho hud delivered the
United States noto lntd tho hnnds of
Foreign Secretary Aguilar. Nothing
was said to him, nor any information
given as to when a reply might be
expected,
"EARLY" MEANS FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS TO CARRANZA.
In tho Unltod States noto, demand
was mado on tho Carranza Govern
emnt for an "early statement." Tho
most Important word In tho national
dictionary to-day in "oarly" and the
definition that President Wilson gives
to' It. Without nlllclnl announce,
rrjent the Intimation In highest circles
is that early moans "not more than
forty-eight hours."
The time limit Is Wednesday night,
and If by Thursday morning tho ob
stinate Carrnnza Is still defying tho
United States, things will begin to
happen with lightning rapidity.
Army and Navy Departments In
WMhlngton have gone on a. war
Chosen at Conference With
3arty Chiefs as Best Man
for the Job.
NEW PLEA TO LATIN AMERICA
basis. Both Secretaries announced
that no Information concerning troops
or movemonts of vessels would be
given out. Tho respective goneral
staffs havo assumed control over op
orations, subject only to directions as
to general policy from the President
and Secretaries.
At tho War Department not even
Information concerning transporta
tion of National Guard regiments or
summaries of commands moving for
ward to-day was allowed to be mado
public. There Is no ban upon news
papers printing news about the Na
tional Guard gathered from home
sources, but tho department will not
glvo out figures, names or destina
tions. The censorship now In effect
applies principally to two lources
of newt. First is war restriction
upon the few accredited corre-
pondents now with Gen, Per
ihino's army of occupation In
Mexico. Only officially revised
news ii allowed, to come from
them, The second rettrlotlon Is
upon all officer of army and navy
to refrain from divulging any in
formation concerning plans or In
tended movements,
Tt:lo applies principally to tho Do.
partmcnt at Washington and to tho
(Oontlnuod on Second rage,)
(Special Cable Despatch to The Evenlna World.)
Copyright, 11116, by the Prom Publishing Co. (Tho Now York livening World).
MEXICO CITY, June 27. Foreign Secretary Aguilar to-day sent
a second message to the Spanish-American countries, as follows:
"It looks aa If the American Government, without Justifiable and
political reasona for deolarlno war upon Mexloo, wish to make It In
evitable by uslno Incidents that are bringing us close to war,
"Mexico should win or succumb with dignity, but before she does
she Is willing to demonstrate to the other countrica of the American
oontlnent that the attitude followed by the United 8tates la that of at
tempting to seek a pretext for Intervention."
Aguilar has given Instructions to
Ambassador-Designate Arrodonda In
Washing-ton to aot with the represen
tatives and agents of the Latin Amer
ican countries that have offered to
mediate betwoon Mexico and the
United States.
Almost Immediately following the
delivery yesterday by James Linn
Rodgera to Under Becrotary Amador
of the Foreign Ofllco of the latest
note of the United States to the Con
stitutionalist Government the note
was laid before First Chief Carranza
for his consideration.
The First Chief Immediately read
the noto and the reply Is being
drafted to-day.
It Is not unlikely that Mexico will
assert her right to retain the Carrlzal
prisoners under the circumstances
and takj the position that her attitude
on the matters In dispute already has
been defined with sufflolent olarlty In
prior communications to the United
States Government,
Mexico's position in the interna
tional situation was outlined last
night In a statomei.t given out by thi
Foreign Offlco, in which Is embodied
a declaration sont Sunday night to
fourteen Spanish-American Govern
ments. After reciting the incidents at Mata
moros and Mazatlan, tho statement
says: "Tho American Govornment has
ordered tho rapid mobilization of it
army on our fruntler with manifest
hostility, seeking to bring about a wn
which neither trie Govornment noc
the pooplo of Mexico provoke. Al
though an unjust and unequal war
eeoms to be Inevitable, tho Govern
ment of .Mexico as well as tho people
are resolved to defend this country's
loverolgnty and absolute indepen
dence even at tha cost of tho blujij of
its sons and destruction of its re.
sources,
Corrra.-tbM fin Inn rwiMhlrf -twnll- bi
at., N, Xi'Aint,
William It. Wlllcnx, fonnnr Postmas
ter of New York and ix-'halrman of
tho Public Sorvlco rommlsHlun, was
lictod Chairman of the Hepubllran
National Committee this afternoon
and will manage I'barlrs H. Hughon's
Presidential rninimlKii.
The announcement was mado by Mr.
Hughes at tho Hotel AsUir after bn
had hcl.1 a conformco with members
of tho no-called "steering committee"
of tho Republican convention.
Those who conforrod with Mr.
IfURheH wero W. Murray Crano of
MuHsuchiiHutts, Italph C Williams of
Oregon, Holes ponrosti of Pennsyl
vania, Alvnh Jl. Martin of Virginia,
Charles It. Warren of Michigan, Heed
Smoot of Utah, Jauuvi A. Hemonway
'it Indiana and John G. Adams of
Iowa,
Mr. Hughes declined to discuss the
appointment, but Intimated that the
selection of Mr. Wlllrux a-s National
Chairman was a personal one, und
duo to bin confidence in the new
Chairman.
Mr. WIIIcox llrst came Into promi
nence as tlm most likely candidate
for lluges's campaign director two
v celts ago,
OtheiH b.ivo been mentioned as
W)"sllilltlfiM and various leaders havo
urged "favorite sons," but Mr. Will
rox has generally been considered
oust likely to be the llnal selection.
Il was the llrst man to call on
Hughfh at Ills hotel heie when the
mil date came to New York, follow,
mg bis nomination and resignation
mm the Supreme (Joint bench.
The new Chairman li a close per
sonal friend of Mr. Hughes, who,
when be wa.s Governor of New York,
appointed him to the Chairmanship
-.f tho State Publln Utilities Com
mission. Although Mr WIIIcox has been com
paratively active in llcpiihlican pull
ties, lie has ncer figured prominently
is a number of tb K"-cilci otganl
..it ion crowd, lie lias belonged to the
llugi.e.s group of ItepublieaiiH III New
York.
lie Is an attorney with offires here
and Is a member of the I'nlon League
and Now York Yacht Clubs. He was
horn at Smyrna, N. Y., and Is fifty
three years old.
Troopers Hid by Day and
Crawled Over the Desert
at Night.
COLtTMMPS, N. M June 27. Four
tnoro Carrlzal survivors, two of whom
wore In terrible condition from lack
of water and food, havo been found
and brought bock to thn American
lines.
Milling by day and crawling over
tho desert at night, tho inon reported
having forced Mexican peons at tho
point of guns to furnish them water.
Carranzlsta cavalry scoured tho
country hoping to take them prls
oners. An American patrol found tho
four survivors and Immediately re
lieved their want for food and wntcr.
HI. PASO, Tex.. Juno 27. Tw(
negro troopers, ragged and half dead
from hardships, are In Jail nt Juarez,
having been brought from Guzman,
whero they wero ruptured by du facto
Government troops.
They am believed to bo survivors of
tho Carrlzal engagement.
Through streets resounding with cheers and blazing with flags the
j Seventh and Seventy-first Regiments of New York's National Guard
marched this morning from their armories to the trains on which they
are now speeding toward Brownsville, Tex., on the Mexican boundary.
The Seventh moved at 8..)o o'clock, arriving at Jersey City at 10.25
o'clock, and pulling out at l.io o'clock in a three-section special train
of day coaches on the Pennsylvania Railroad. The pathway of the troops
through the city was strewn with flowers and lined with men and women
trying to smile through their tears.
There was a prolonged scene of confusion at the Pennsylvania
Terminal in Jersey City, which the regimental officers attributed to the
failure of the road to provide proper equipment. This failure was denied
by officials of the road.
The Seventy-first got under way at 10.-I5 o'clock, and after a
thunderous ovation on l-'ifth Avenue, and the cross streets traversed, they
entrained at Sixtieth Street and l-Iev'enth Avenue, and pulled out at l.-lo
o'clock. Only day coaches were provided for (lie Seventy-first
The l-ourteenth Regiment left Peekskill on trains for Buffalo at 8.30
o'clock and will proceed westward to the border.
The troop of tlrcnter w York now on tho hujt to the bonier number
IAS officers und H.illMi men.
The Twenty-second and Sixty-ninth Regiments will be entrained for
the border to-morrow or next day.
The Porty-seventh Regiment of Brooklyn expected to entrain at
Holvikcn this afternoon, but it was announced for Major General O'Ryan
that no more troops would be despatched to the border to-day.
fltnte
I'nimtnn Will lime 70,000
Troops In Ten llnya.
SAN ANTONIO, Texas., Juno 37.
Gen. Funnton Is expected to havo
70,000 National Guardsmen at bis dis
posal along tho border within ton
days. Twelve thousand tiro expected
to bo en route to points "somuwhoro
In Texas" to-day. Nino thousand
others will follow Immediately. The
remainder will bo sunt as fast as
their equipment Is brought up to tho
army standard.
Tho activity of Mexican troops nt
Naeo last night was expl.Unnd to-day.
Information had reached headquar
ters here that tho .Mexicans bad
planned to sweep across tho Him to
lllsbou and there raid tho olllco and
storehouse of tho copper smelting
concerns. The Twenty-second In
fantry was rushed from Douglas to
Ulsbeo,
Gen. Pershing reported to Oon.
Funston that tho two squadrons of
the Klnvcnth Cavalry that had been
front toward Carrlzal In search of the
dispersed members of tho two (roups
that wero engaged thorn by (ar.
rumen's forces, havo fallen back on
tho main line.
LAIli:i0, Tex., Juno 27. A troop
train of twenty cars, loaded with Car
ranz.i soldiers, amved at Nuevo
Laredo, opposite here, to-d ly. It is
estimated tin re were 1.500 men on tin
1 1 .mi. Arrival of another truop train
last night Is reported.
(For Racing Results See Page 2.)
BANDIT VILLA ALIVE,
RUMOR IN WASHINGTON
Mining Men Just Back at Mexican
Border Heard Nothing
of Him.
WASHINGTON, Juno 27. Private
advices to Rtato Department otllclals
to-day aro said to contlrm border ro
ports that Gen. Villa Is still alive.
Authorities said Information troni
these sources had previously proven
reliable. They believe In c.iho of war
1 Villa will be found heading a forco
' controlled by Carranza.
i:L PASU, Juno 27.- -Six Ann-rlcin
mining men arrived lo-d.iy from the
properties of the Amrai Mining
i and Milling Company. Tt heard
nothing at Santa Hoh.iII.i concerning
Francisco Villa, recently reported to
be In that vicinity In ihu Carranza
service.
1,500 SIOUX INDIANS
OFFER TOFIGHTFORU.S.
South n.ik'it.i S.natnr Tnld Tlvy
Will Have l Walt tor Call
tor I'luiiieers.
WASHINGTON. June 27.--Fifteen
bundled Sioux Indlms In South Da
kota have offered to enlist In the mil
itary seivlco of tho I'mteil Statej, in
the Mi Mean euii'igency,
The offer e.inie in a letter to Sena.
tor Johnson of Smith Dakota, who to. Fifty-eighth Street
day notltled Secretary of war Uakor,
t
CURE IIS AND FLOWERS
FOIl THE SEVENTH AS
IT LEAVES ARMORY,
Aftor S o'clock roll call the boys of
tho Seventh Iteglmcnt swung out of
their armory at Sixty-seventh Street
by tho Lexington Avenuo doorway
and found themselves met by a volley
of cheers and a shower of flowers.
With Mags fluttering and the drum
and bugle corps tilling the r.lr with
"Tlm Girl I Left Hehlnd Me," they
marched west to Fifth Avenue.
As the troops passed tho Institution
for thn Improved Instruction of the
Deaf and .Mute, on tho Lexington
Aonui corner, there was a catch in
many a throat at tho sight of tho tiny
unfortunates crowdod on tho flra es
capes anil In tho windows there, wav
ing strips of bunting and little flags
and expressing In t heir earnest faces
the things they could not voice.
Keeping step with tho boys a- they
marched In columns of fours wore
the, i- mothers, wives and sweethearts,
clinging to them as If grudging ach
minute which brought tho tttno of
parting nearer. One group which sont
the tears rolling down tho cheeks
nf tho onlookers Included Mrs.
Maty Domain-, No. 1GD5 Lexington
Avenue, a woman of sixty. nl"e, who
has three sons and a nephuw in tho
Siventh. Supported by her two
daughters-In-law. sho tottered along
with her bos all tho way from tho
armory to ire eicvateu station at
Uu brave, mother, be brs.ve,'' tha
r
Amu,, m
