aaaaaasaaaaaBBsWBawal
LATEST CABLED SUGAR QUOTATICM
. .-. ' Cents Dollars
99 OMtrifataJa If. T. par lb per few
Priea, HawaiUa basis 6 40 $128
LmI previottg quota-
6.27 1128.40
? HONOLULU; HAWAII TERRITORY. TUESDAY; ' Jf N I
WHOLE NUMBER 4S22
vW""Baaaattaaaaass-, . ... ' . '
: 27, 1916. SEMI-WEKKLY.
II, I F' )l , f TT7- TTfTTTlTP ' - " - - --. -- a
S mih. Fills Ti mm
DEI
. n a s I i i I i i r s a i , , ,
; ILUIUI.UII U
IlllR
Italfians Assume Offensive 'In
Trenlino and Sweep Austrians
Back Over Border, Making Gen
eral Retreat Almost Disaster
RUSSIANS CONTINUE
THEIR DRIVE IN EAST
British Make Large Gains Against
Germany At Western Front In
France and Also Along Belgian
Line, Where Fighting Is Heavy
rAmwH-u Frees hf Mml WlrsUss.)
LONDON, June 27. The Italian
striking ham against the Aus
trian lines, forcing the Teuton
u.m vr rronr or mnr than twenty
mile aeroa the 'border of the Trentino.
The retreat .of the Austrian is general
and is n1mttte1 by Vienna, which is
sued a statement avinr that the rn.
tiremenf was "undertaken by our
rciramaniiire general tn order to pre
wrvti our freedom of aetlnn."
The entire front in the Trentino is
aflrtet and the Austrian retreat
threaten to tx-eome a rout. The Ita
lian are preening on the heel of their
enemy end already, ft is claimed by
despatch front Borne, much of the
lnd lost during tha recent drive of
the Austrian In that aeetor has been
j?j?ained. ; . '1 ;.. . ; v.'
I Military Experts' declnfe that the
Anatrinna have beea compelled to
weaken thelrY lines by the atieeeaaful
Saaaiilta ri fU a P.,..;.. - i. .
OntJria i ft hiriaJrtrtetiBjf, ' M , jHft i
ibc iraniie . nave been able to take
prompt advantage , of; tbl: faet, -an4
strike a sutteauion of blows which ap
pear. to have rOket down the Au
strian defense and foraed them back.
Italian Attack BrUlUnt
Between Brenta and Ktacn the Ital
ian attack has bean brilliant and moat
successful, say the despatches from
Home, and it is hem that Austria ad
mits her greatest defeat.
In the Bnkowina the Russians are
still driving forward Without pause, se-
MiriuK imimnani positions as they go
and consolidating their line behind
them. North of the little town of
Kuty, wbieh they were reported aa hav
ing raptured last Saturday, the Aus
trian claim to have made a stand, and
to have repulsed the Wavs. In the
Kimpolung region, however, Petrograd
elim to have made Important gain
and the Austrian practically admit re
verse in that district.
Th flailing in Galicia has taken a
new turn, according to the despatches
lust niedt. There fur iiial ,!.,. .v..
Teutonic foe has held the Russian bear
at nay, imt yesterday came the reports
Of additi'lliul Kuwiln mtinm In tk
Dneister river region. "Here the ftlava
miva iHPnniy swept aside all opposi
tion with thtir heavy cannon, break
ing the il)nlW.k imposed for so long
' by their !rmsn enemy, and crossing
the river in the faee of a fearful Are.
Losses Have Been frightful
Attacking In massed formation, their
loss is siiid to have been frightful but
I'etrogrnd miyn the Importance of the
advance nnd ruptures that followed it,
eompenKiited these losses. They have
taken the villuges of Miekerghine and
IVtrove.
In the Vi.lhynla, both Vienna and
IVtrograd report heavy fighting and
Vienna dn lures tbat the Germans have
stormed Kussian positions three thous
and meter wide, and have withstood
heavy counter-attacks made bv th
Mlavs. Along the Htyr river front the
(lei-mans Hie said to be bombarding
the KtisHiiuis and to be launching
uravy unaarry attacKs, which Petro
grad cluiuis have been repulsed. The
Hermans are declared to be using their
fnvorite massed formation methods,
seeking to lrsk through the Russian
lines by sheer waight, and have, as a
consequent, lost tremeudoiisly.
From north of, the Pripet Marshes to
.laeobstadt there haa been intense ar
tillery bomlinrdment from both sides,
the consumption of ammunition having
been prodigious, according to the re
ports from Berlin and Petrogrud.
German Attacks Break Down
Oflicer arriving, at Kiev, Russia,
from the front, und whose reports have
been cabled here, describe the breaking
down of ull (iermaa attacks at the
Ntockhod river by the Russian's. The
(lerman reserves wera hurled back and
the Russians are, advancing.
The (lerman prisoners compare the
Russian guuflre fOB-inferno of shot
and shell similar to that which haa torn
the Verdun liaT for many weeks.
Both I'nris and Berlin report a gen
em! slackening of the fighting around
Verdun. Kven the artillery (Ire, which
(Coutiauod on Page 3)
Tticyfore Roo&velt Withdraws From Presidential Race
urges
HARl.ES EVANS HUGHES fLfn of N v,w a r..,.. ..
l , t,A. n. .. .... " . . ' ",,VJ vlwl
' ViPr. R.pcvly, Who H...
STRIKE TENSION
IN COAST PORTS
(AMocUtsa rrsss tj radars WlrsUss.)
SAN FRANCISCO, June 27. Medi
ator White, representing 'the federal
department of labor, announced lust
night that he has been forced to defer
the call for a conference between the
strikers and the employers 1n the big
louganoremeu s struggle for more mon
ey and a closed ahop.
He was waiting, he said, for the ac
tion of the stevedores' union, ou the
compromise proposed by the employers.
It was freely intimated in union circles
tbat the proposal will prove unaccept
able because it does not include in
creased pay fer tha warehouse workers
and lumber handlers, wh nave become
affiliated with the longshoremen's
union.
Appeal To Governor
The lubor mimm! uhI am nn-..i
Governor Hiram W. Johnson yesterday
asking him to compel tha strike-bresk
era and the guards employed by the
suipowners, to discontinue carrying
ncapuus. mey ueciare mat tbese men
are going armed in plain violation of
the law. and that tha ....
doing nothing to atop the practise.
uub eueei or me atrua Is being felt
in the Kaat. according tn ounu..i...u
from the larger Eastern cities, and the
Merchants and Manufacturers ' Asso
ciation of Loa Angeles announced
through Ha secretary last night that it
had received offers of ten thousand men
to act aa strike breakers, from Kastern
sources.
No Violence In City
There has- been no violence in this
city, and but little in Han Pedro, Sun
Diego or Portland, and that of a minor
nature, but three strikers oa the Ta
coma wuterfront were shot down yes
terday during a light that is said to
have been started by the men. The
men were seriously wounded, and one
of them, John Mow, baa been removed
to a hospital, dangerously hurt.
The strikers are reported to have
rushed the guards at the Hperry Flour
Mills, and rushed thoua n...
of the stenmer Hanta Crux, which was
tied uo at the Hiick. luailimr
Strike Breaker! Beaten
A number of the strikebreakers
were badly beaten up, and aome of the
other employes of the eompuny uUo
were injured before the arrival of the
Doliee nut an end to th riutlna
strikers esenued. tskinir with ii....
their injured comrades.
GROWINGTIGHTER
All Progressives To
!V"'. "v- :m, ....... v-
Former Justice Hughes Gives Praise
l o LsOlonel Jt or
c
(Associate Press by rtdsral Wireless.)
HICAOO, June 27. Theodore
Roosevelt will not run for Presi
dent on the I'mtrreaui v tirkot
He has definitely resigned and has
linked the Progressives who followed
him in If 12, and again in 1910, terete
fur Charles K. Hughes, Republican
nominee fot the presidency, because the
colonel .believes that Wilson should -be
defeated.
In rrimnllnnf mrill. tti
otiest from the Progressive leader the
nutiiinul committee of that nurtv e..
terday voted, thirty. two to aix, to n-
lurse Himhus. aad to cull upon ail mem
oers hi i up nun Moose party t sup
port the Republican candidate. Nine
member of the committee refused to
enst their votes, decluring thnt the
committee was exceeding it authority
in Miking that step.
The letter from Colonel Roosevelt,
announcing his determination not to
run. and calling upon his supporters to
rally to the support of the Republican
i-uiuliiyite, was rend at a meeting of
the committee. He hud already given
liis "conditional refusal" to the nom
ination, immediately after it waa offer
ed to him by the Progressive conven
tion. NOTES SHOW TREACHERY
OF GREASER COMMANDER
(AssoclaUd Press by Psdaral Wireless.)
SAN ANTONIO, June . Notes
found in the pocket of Captain Boyd
DoiiiHiueu a ropy or a note sent by the
authorities of Carrizal. giving theMni
ted Ntates troops permission to ' puss
th rough the town ou a peaceful mis
sion. '
One noto whs found from General
(ionic., inviting him to enter the town
to confer. Twenty-two of the Ameri
cans in the Carrizal fight are still un
accounted for.
AVIATOR NILES FALLS
AND DIES OF INJURIES
(Aiwcuud Prtss by rtdsral Wurslsst.)
OSHKOHH, Wisconsin, June 20.
Aviator Charles F. Niles, the well
known American flier, fell a tk.u.,.i
feet during a flight yesterday and died
mis morning, mi tvccKa ago he mur
ried Lucille God d aril of I
riiilijijiinei Ihlmnin.
GRECIAN STEAMER IS SUNK
(Aisoctatsd Prat by Psdsral Wlrslss.)
LONDON. June 27. The Grecjan
steamer Nitsa, was torpedoed and sunk
in the Mediterranean Hea yesterday.
Her crew was saved.
Support Republican Ticket
' warren rsupinxi oi Indiana, Candidates On Renublican Ticket
RKeld Entorm.n, of Thdor. Roo.l. Z .
' -a r' yT ,..1 . .. s . Iff
.. . . r -
His Principals '
In his letter Mr. R.msevelt lauds
loruier Justice HogheH, and declares
wmi me piatrorm uUoi leil by the Ro
publicans containa mimy planka for
"" me i-rogressive purty stands, and
has stood.
H
UGHES LAUDS
ROOSEVELT'S STAND
fAssocUtsa Press by Psdarsl Wireless.)
.VV yokk, June 27- In a formal
latement issued fr,..., k u....i
Matement issued
- ...w Muuuca
. i t .
ruiuiiinTi nere last nie;iiL it waa an
nounced that Mr. Hughes had wired
his acceptance of the l'rogroaeive sup
port to the Progressive National Com
mittee in Chicago, and had also wired
to Oscar King Davis, secretary of that
committee, welcoming the support of
the Bull Moose party, niul arraigning
the administration of President Wilson
for its giosa "weakness and incerti
tude. ' '
Later in the day Mr Hughes made
public u letter to t..imer President
Roosevelt, in which he declares that
"the nation owes you a debt of grati
tude, for quickening its national spirit
and fur demanding, through good and
ill repute out-and-out, one hundred per
cent Americanism."
AUSTRIAN TRANSPORTS
ARE SUNK BY ITALIANS
lAssociatsd Prss by Federal Wirel.)
ROMK, June 27. The ministry of
marine here announced last night that
it has received information of the
sinking of two Austrian transports,
loaded with troops, arms and ammu
nition, in the harbor of Durrazzo, by
Ituliuu NiiliniHrines. '
f-.
VILLA REPORTED ALIVE
AND ALLY OF CARRANZA
(AiKdstsd Press by Federal Wireless.)
KL 1'A.SO, June 20. Apparently re
liable information has reached El Paso
that Villa has reached an agreement
with the de facto Ctirrnnza government,
nnd this is used to induce his fnllnur.
to join the Carranza forces.
MILITIA BEGINS MOVING
(Aiaoclattd Press by Federal Wlrsla.)
LL TASO, Texas, .June 27. State
ments from the local headquarters of
the army announced last night that
fully 20,0(10 militiamen are expected to
reach the city before the end of the
week.
-.-" fl
TORREON GREASERS
ATTACK AND WRECK
YANKEE CONSULATE
(Associated Frets by federal Wireless.)
KAOLK i'ASH, Texas, June 27 The
consulate of the United Htates at Tor
reon, Mexico, was completely demol
ished by u mob during an anti Ameri
can demonstration, June 18, according
to refugees from that nlai h.
ed here yesterday.
l lie people of Torreon were at the
bull flgfit, when a number of Carranza
aoldiers entered and compelled large
numbers of the crowd to join a rapidly
forming moli which was shoutine
down with the (Irintfoa " mid iMniL
to the (iriiigon. ' 1
Lea vi nu the bullrinrr the mnh hal-
ed by the soldiers, proceeded to the
ceutrul plaza of the city, where a huge
mass -meet inn was fnrmd It u ad
dressed by the alcalde of the eity, and
niiiiioer oi prominent citizens.
With oik; accord th hubUm Aa.
tnandeil the expulsion of all American
irom aiexico, and stirred the mob to a
fresh freuzv. bv uririnir th i,.,,U
drive the Americana out of the eitv
and out of the country.
TREVINO THREATENS TROOPS
UNDER PERSHING ONCE MORE
(Associated Press by Psdsral Wirel.) -
CHI III' A H UA. June 5i! n .
luels of the evacuation by American
troops of the nearby t niaVllt. tf fctaa aa
Geroiiimo and Bachinoba, they have
uren orrupieu oy Henernl Trevino's
troops. Trevino has also issued order
that any attempts of Ueneral Per
shing's men to returu south will be
forcibly prevented.
GUNNE R YeTpYrTwILL
JOIN RUSSIAN FORCES
(Spectsl Cablegram to Hawaii Shlnpo.)
TOKIO, June 27 General Fukuda,
the famous Japanese gunuery expert
has been ordereil to join the Russian
headquarters command immediately,
He left here yesterday for duty with
the KufsiniiN.
HILL LINE mVetT"dEMANDS
(Associated Prss by Psdsral Wlrslse.)
san DlMio. June 27. The Great
Northern I nciflc Steamship Company
h is granted the demands of the union
ant the company' steamer here will be'
uulomled todsi.
State
Me En
-1
To Southland
Fifteen Thousand Guardsmen Expected To
Be On Move To Reinforce General Funston
For Boundary Service In Event of War
With Mexico As Result of Carranza Break
Rtiptuwl&Near
(Associated Press by Federal Wireless.) '
WASHINGTON, Juno 27 While waiting for the Answer of Car
ranui to lh Innt nule. ilfmnnHi
n "'in iwii yj, n
lack upon th American favnlry at Carrizal, and the iinmwliate r
l.-nnn nf the American prisonurs, Wasliington in busy pi tting as many
trmipti to the Mrder lis iKsilil. It is rush in the militia ns Bpiwlily
as possible to thn wreno of the anticipated action.
liast niht it wa iinnouiiced that the authorities hope to have
twenty-five thoasaud men on the border by the end of the week, and
as fast aa the atate. troops are lieinff mobilized they are beint sent '
south. Four Iwtteriea of the Oklahoma field artillery entrained for
the border, yesterday, 'and the Ninth Massachusetts Infantry, one of
the famous refriments of tlio Old Hay State, also received ita orders
awl started aonthward. , . ; . '
. SEVjERAu'TIOUSAND MEN ARE JROUTJ, 3 f V
. There nrti'tinta ' t,n OiaC -.a Ji.'a l. j-. l '""V i-I"
Uieifl Jartineiit, Including
..vv,,,,,-,;,,, ,,,,. verniom, ixew i lanipsiiire and Khode Island, will
send l.i.(KK) men southward today. ,T .
Florida. Virpinia. Maryland, Maine ,.nd the District of Columbia
also will start militia, troops toward the border this mominjr, and
Pennsylvania and Delaware will follow immediately afterward.
The railroads of the. country have received 4heir orders to hasten
the trains carrying these troops and they are to be. rushed through
without pause, save the chanKiiu? of engines and ereWa, taking the
riRht of way over everything on the line. ,: . .,
EMBARGO PUT ON ALL COMMERCE WITH MEXICO
The war department has ordered an embargo on all commerce be
twwMi this country and Mexico, pending the development of the present
crisis, ami the watch from munitions and ammunition, which have been
go.ng. acne the line, has been doubled, ami many of the shipments
held up in (Jnlveston and New Orleans an.) Sun Anhmln -:-:-i
shippihf points for this class of supplies.
The stale department, in a statement hwt t Bnnn au.a
had learned that the Mejciean tie facto government haa been doing what
it could to prevent the landing of Americans. The port officials on
both const, have liecn changing the port lights and the lighthouse
s.gnals. mihI have issued wireless warning to all ships off ahore not to
be guided liy these lights, as they have been changed.
CARRANZISTA reply is expected today
While H,e reply from Carranza was expected vesterday, little dis
appoint i,nt was felt in the state department when it failed to arrive.
It is regarded as almost certain, however, that the reply to President
Wilson s last n will reach hen- today, although it is understood
that the .iilmiii.stn.lion is prepared to wait even little longer before
taking any net ion. .
The American troops under fioneral IYrshing have been withdrawn
' Uvo "r ,h Positions they have been holding in Mexico
The Carn.i.z.sta soldiers under Ueneral Trevino are reported to have 1
followed closely upon their heels, ami when the Americana abandoned
the towns ot San (Jeronimo and Hachiniba, the Mexican occupied the
places at once. ( icnerol Trevino issued a statement in which he warned
the Americans against attemnt ino- to move nth ,ii-:
such on attempt would lie forcibly
BOYD HAD PERMISSION TO PASS CARRIZAL
IVspiilcli.'s from General Funston to the war department report that
... .... . .,- luUi limud on uie isniy oi t'apt. Charles T. Boyd
commander of the unfortunate detachment of the Tenth Cavalry'
ambushed l,v the Mexicans at Carrizal. was found a copy of a note from
fi,'norf'1 ,; Kivi"K Permission to the Americans to go through
Carrizal pe; fully.
The I'reshlent has arranpnl u possible joint session of the two houses
of congress tor later in the week, which he may address after reoeivinff '
Carranza 's reply.
The South and ('eiilral American republics have withdrawn their
oiler of mediation. Secretary Lansing said it was untimely. They
may renew it later.
The report of Cpt. Lewis Morcv. Troop h. Tenth Cavalry, on the
attack by the Mexicans, strengthens H,e udministration's position that
the Mexicans were to blame for the Cuiial light and its result. The
administration is prepared to ask rnins. t.. ...ks.. - :'i:.
wnsprship. and the war department
......... ,.,.! nuuu reuniiir iroops
In the event of war it is planned
an aero sen ice.
Troops
Moute
New York, , MassaduwetteC New V'
prevents!.
is s dily mobilizing the na-
as arc available.
to patrol the border bv means of
