: '
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
Cuenmg
c ,
NIGHT
EXTRA
-J.V
4u
vol. n.-fro. 240
Philadelphia, Tuesday, junhj 27, ioig.
Constant, lolfl. t Tits Pctuo Ltixict Courist.
PRICE ONE CENT
U. S. DEMAND OFFICIALLY
REJECTED BY CARRANZA
HUGHES TO BE
DINNER HOST OF
COL ROOSEVELT
Republican Nominee's Invi-
L tation Accepted by Moose
Chieftain
LEADERS ARE RECONCILED
E Candidate in Cordial Letter
Acknowledges Progressive
Indorsement
riEV YORK. June 27. William R.
WHcox. of New York, was this after
1 noonnamed chairman of the Republican
National Committee.
NEW TOniC, Juno 27. Chnrles Evans
Hftghes, the Republican presidential nonv
(nee, and Colonel Theodore Boosevelt will
have dinner together tomoqpw mgnt nt tno
" Hotel Astor. It was announced today at
Wnthe Hughes headquarters that tho Invlta-
Mtlon had boen extended to tho Colonel by
r..The meeting will mark tho final stages of
the reconciliation between tho chief of the
, J extinct Progressive party and tho Repub
licans.
. Following a. conference today between
fc George W. Wlckersham, former Attornoy
y, General of the United States, and Mr.
Lt Hughes,. It was reliably reported that Wll-
nim n. Wlllcox. former member of the
Kf::. . : . . ......... ....
jFudiio service commission, win act as Air.
IHlIughts' campaign manager. It Is under-
B&wMijod;' however, that Frank H. "Hitchcock,'
yflSwio -puc over mo uugnes nomination a
3'SSgp, will .act In an advisory.' capacity'
' asuwiu do, mo, real power oenina. mo
' "J .CAMPAIGN; TO'.OPEN.
,Str.' .Hughes will begin his: nctlve cam
paign for the presidency within a few days,
nil course was decided upon In view of tho
letter of Colonel Roosevelt pledging support
to Mr. Hughes; and 'the-Indorsement of the,
Progressive. NatlonaFCommltteo .during Its
session at Chicago yesterday!.
In ,a telegram addressed to O. IC Davis,
eecretary of the Progressive National Com
mittee, Mr. Hughes thanked tho Moose for
their support and assailed President Wilson
for his "wordy and wobbly policy."
Mr. Hughes Is expected to announce,
ss& -prooaoiy luio looay, nis ciioica lor a na-
uontM cnairman. 'ine xurrner juBiitu
planned to leave for Brldgehampton late
today. With him will go a special "movie"
director and a cameraman to arrange to
iM; take campaign movies of the candidate.
MEXICANS DEFY ULTIMATUM
AND BLAME U. S. FOR MISHAP
TO PERSHING'S EXPEDITION
America's Own Fault That Troops Suf
fered, Position on Retention of Cap-
tives Charges Manufactured
Excuse to Start War
WASHINGTON, June 27. Mexican Ambassa
dor Arredondo officially has been advised that de
mands of United States for release of American
soldiers would be refused.
GALVESTON, Tex., June 27. Carranza officials at Tampico arc
holding W. H. Greene, general superintendent of the Huiastica Oil
Company, as a hostage pending the payment of a large sum of
money, according to Greene's' wife, who arrived here today. Mrs.
Greene said her husband was "arrested" when he attempted to
leave the country with other Americans.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., June 27 The last battery of the 3d
Field Artillery was sent to Eagle Pass today. No more artillery re
mains at Fort Sam Houston.
m
m
HUGHES WRITES ROOSEVELT.
Mr, Hughes has sent the following mes
sage to Colonel Roosevelt:
My Dear Colonel Roosevelt:
I warmly appreciate the cordial letter
of indorsement which you have sent to
the Progressive committee. No one Is
more' sensible than I of the lasting In
debtedness of the nation to you for the
quickening of the national Bplrlt, for
Continued on race Fire, Column Four
I
ALLIED ARMIES.
PUSH ASSAULTS
ON ALL FRONTS
British Smash German
Trenches at Ten Points,
London Reports
I SLAVS PURSUE AUSTRIANS
-Germany believes tha "big push" is
I about to begin.
The Teutons are feverishly reinforc
ing their lines in northern France and
Flanders as British guns continue a
l.fteady pounding against the whole
iront from Ypres to the Somme.
"Specially constructed railway cars are
carrying heavy artillery to the front of
tthe Bavarian Crown Prince, Amsterdam
Idtopatches reported today, Several
trainloads have passed through Lou-
fvaln.
The London nubile is awaitin? easrerly
jfor first news of the expected smash.
f, Paris and Rome newsDanera today
I Joined in the belief that the Allied
super-offensive is getting Under way.
fhe hour pf action has come," said
, w Paris Matin. ' "Attack succeeds
defense on many fronts,"
Both in Roma and PaVis trie nrosoects
L a combined offensive on all fronts
r being received with rejoicing. Paris
sfritics believe the first stroke against
e German lines by the British in
Northern Prance will causa the aban
donment .of the German drive on
I Verdun.
On the eastern, front the Russians
"Ve entered the Caroathifln nasses
Jding into Transylvania There la no.
iff fsaBrmatioo fro. Patrograd. of Rome
t that Traylvaia ha fewn W-
COLUMBUS, N. M., June 27. Four more Carrizal survivors,
two of whom were in a desperate condition from lack of water and
food, have beerifound and brouglit .back to the American lines. Hid-"ig-;by
day an crawling1 oyerthe desert tit night the men reported
havihg'f prcejtt Mexicah"' peons at the pointvof guns to furnish them
water. .' " ! "
"SAN ANTONIO, Tex"., June.27t--0'nly prompt action by Major
General Funston in ordering the 22d U. S. Infantry from Douglas
to Naco is believed to have saved .Bisbee, Ari., from attack by 1500
Mexicans 'last. night. Scouts reported that the Carranzistas were
eritrained-ahd;ready;for a dash' upon Bisbcc; but when the American
troops were concentrated the Mexicans did not make any hostile
move. '
Mexico City reports that General Venustiano Carranza will reject tho ulti
matum issued by President Wilson, demanding tho release of American soldiers
captured in the battle at Carrizal, and a declaration as to tho Mexican attitude
toward the punitive expedition now in Mexico.
The information comes from, n high official in the do facto Administration.
As announced by Foreign Minister Aguilar, in letters to Latin-American
countries, the Mexican attitude is:
That mishaps which befall American troops is due to their unlaw
ful and unwelcome presence on Mexican soil.
That Mexico-is prepared to defend its sovereignty and honor, what
ever the cost.
That the "Invasion" of Mexico is but nn evidence of a policy of
. aggrcssion.-'tho object of which is not Mexico, alone, but Central and
South American countries as well. -
That the Government of the United States is attempting to provoke
hostilities by overt acts, lacking a political excu30for its invasion of
Mexico.
If the Aguilar pronouncements state the attitude of the Carranza Govern
ment, Mexico defies b6th points of tho American ultimatum, which President
Wilson has announced will bo attended by tho "gravest consequenpes." The
United States demands:
The immediate release of soldiers captured by Mexicans and dis
avowal of authorizing nttack, which, in tho diplomatic view, is .an
act of war.
That the American forces be not molested in their mission to
destroy bandits who have committed depredations upon American lives
and property.
Rejection of these demands, Washington holds,, will result in war. Mean
while, dfficlals awaited the reply of General Carranza, which is expected by
tomorrow at the latest
Reports pi a clash between General 'Pershing and' the Carranzistas near
Villa AhumadV continue, but lack official confirmation.
Continued' on Fate Two, Column On
MEXICAN WAR
CALL DRAFTED
FOR CONGRESS
House Leaders Frame
Decree to Meet Speedy
Call by Wilson
WILL GIVE PRESIDENT
AUTHORITY TO ACT
Declaration Will Hold Mex
ico Responsible for Ne
cessity of Move
OFFICIALS AWAIT REPLY
Same Authority That Started
1846 Mission Expected
in 48 Hours
BILL FOR $25,000,000
TO MOBILIZE REPORTED
House Gets "Urgent Deficiency
Measure to Equip, Transport
and Pay Troops
WASHINGTON, June. ST. An urgent de
ficiency bill appropriating J36,952.08.8J,
virtually all of which Is necessary because
of ths mobilization of regular troopa and the
Rational Guard fgrt Mexican crisis service,
was reported to the House today by the
Committee on Appropriations.
The bill follows closely the estimates sub
mitted by the War pepartment and ap
proved by the President The principal
emergency appropriations authorized ares
Under quartermaster's Corps Horses,
J8.0?5.55i transportation of troocsr and
equipment, f,SS,JtS; clothing, camp and
garrison equipage, t?,7?l.l6Q; pay or the
Katlonal .Guard, $J,i8,0Q0; subsistence,
ij'JOOO; construction and repair of-hospitals.
1100,000; resvlar supplies. Incidental
Scense and. mileage1 of omcers, IJl J.OQ0.
Slginal service of the army. JJB9.000.
Radio installation. H0.000-
Knuglneerlng pepartment For depots,
eaulnment pf Jroops. civilian assistants and
field operation. 00.000
Adjutant General' Offlce. War Depart
mmt. tWO ,
Viit tl naval establishment provlajw.
military awr. m4tsal 4prOwiit f$4
k, i1WW
FREIGHT RATES RAISED
. FROM COAST TO COAST
Intermountain Cities Win Dis
crimination PJea Nearly All
Commodities Affected
WASHINGTON. June S7 Cities of the
Rocky Mountain States today won a victory
In the famous tntermountaln freight rata
controversy when'.the Interstate Commerce
Commission ordered Bn,-nc'rease (n virtu
ally alt commodities from coast to coast
In some Instances' the .Increase amounted
to to cents per 100 pounds.
The Commission, .said t(iro U no prob
ability of ocean competition with the rail
roads for more, than a year, and that
therefore', the Interior cities of the XVtti
were now being discriminated against
through, the railroads 'charging a higher
rate from the East.totbi Interior pojnts
of the West than frp'nj East to the Pacific
coast points, ',
Principal increases Ja the new rates, to
go Into effect September J. affect all fruits
from the West coast to ths Edst, and all
th heavy commodities from th East to
the West.
Ths sommJssloB 4ipUjice4 that whea
$ pompstltloa iMiii ttt Panama
assl ts Mstorsd Hmws mmt fe another
. ., . -zmrZA 'ifiA
WASHINGTON. Juno 27. House lenders,
convinced that President Wilson within '48
hours will demand concessional sanction
for a break with Mexico, this afternoon
framed n tcntatlvo draft of a resolution
to accomplish that purpose.
After n careful review of the situation
leaders decided to support tho President's
proposal which would declare, "through
tho nets of .the Mexican Government, a
stato of war exists between tho. Un(tcd
States and Mexico." '
ltepresentutlves Flood, chairman of the
H'ouso Military Affairs Committee; Harri
son, "of Mississippi, an Admtnlstratloji" lend
er, and Acting Chairman Pou, of tho'Houso
Itulcs Committee, all worked on the,resolu.
.l.!9n'.- ...u;.. .. V'
' Th'proposc'd declaration would'follow nl
moBt word for word tho resolution which
sent .Zachary Taylor on his victorious cam
paign In northern Mexico and Wlnfleld
Scott from Vera. Cruz to Mexico City In
1847.
Whllo not a flat 'declaration of warit
would place the burden for nn existing
"'state of war" on the Mexican Govern
ment. WILSON PIIEPAHKS SPEECH.
The President and tho Cabinet went over
the Mexican situation nt great length today.
While no action will be taken until tho Car.
rnnza reply Is received, so certain Is the
President that It will be unfavorable thnt
ho has drafted nn outline of nn address to
Congress,- which will be delivered at a
Joint session tomorrow at noon should a
hostile Carranza reply be received by that
time.
And It was emphatically plain, both at
.the White House and the State Department,
that the Administration would not wait be
yond Thursday, for Carranza's decision. To
keep the record straight, the address may
be deferred until Thursday, should Car
ranza's reply be delayed, the Interval great
ly , benefiting the Americans by allowing
further time for the National Guard units
to reach the border.
It Is understood that Secretnry of War
Daker said the' latest reports from Funston
and Pershing show conclusively that the
American troop commander was not the
aggressor at Carrizal.
RESCUE OF AEMIUCANS.
Secretary iiinslng reported that virtually
all the American refugees had got out of
Mexico. In this connection Secretary of
the 'Navy Daniels reported that the com
manders of warships now In the Tampion
district had been warned by General Na-farete.-
the Carranzlsta commander In that
section) that It any attempt was made by
t(ie United. States to occupy the great oil
fields there, he (Nafarete) would destroy
them.
Secretary Dank ' .lPrted his plan
to use the navainliitlaTwplch' .numbers
8000 officers and men. It Is the Intention
of the department to call these men up in
lots of 1C00 each and to give them actual
service Instead of the usual summer
cruise.
HOUSE STANDS BY PROPOSAL
TO, PAY GUARDS' FAMILIES
i i
Pennsylvania ,One of FJve to Favpr
Senate Substitute
WASHINGTON, June 27.7-nepresent-atlve
Coleman, of Pennsylvania was one
of the five members of the House who voted
today against Insisting on flnanslal aid of
not to exceed' 150 a month to families of
Guardsmen serving in the Mexican emer
gency. The' resolution for drafting the
organized mltla as It passed the House
provided for such financial assistance to
dependent relatives of Guardsmen, but the
Senate yesterday amended the resolution
substituting' honorable discharges to
married men .for, ho money provision. The
vote today, came on a motion to disagree
to the Senate amendment and Insist on the
House provision. The House decided to
stand by Its original action. 119 to 5.
Virginians Will SUrt Tomorrow
RICHMOND, Va., June- JI t'ompaoy
units qZ the U and 3d Virginia Regiments
of inffcfitty wo hurrying to Camp Stuart
todas lo 8ilU) for the taogttte. The two
QUICK NEWS
SENATE REFUSES HOUSE AMENDMENTS TO MILITIA BILL
WASHINGTON, June 27. When the Houbo disagreement to the
Senate amendments' to tho militia drafting resolution was reported to
tho Senate Senator Chamberlain's motion to insist upon tho amend
ments was agreed to. The Senate then appointed Senators Chamber
lain, Hitchcock and Warren to act as conferees to adjust the differ
ences with the House.
BILL TO RELIEVE GUARDSMEN'S FAMILIES IN SENATE
WASHINGTON, June 27. Senator Johnson of South Dakota
this afternoon Introduced a bill in the Senate providing 82,000,000
for the relief of national guardsmen's families at the rate of 835 a
month. The relief would be extended to regular army enlisted-men's
families In like circumstances.
AD MEN'S PAGEANT PRIZES AWARDED
Awards for tho best floats In th ntl men's pageant last night were made this
afternoon. Two silver cups were won by tho Victor Tnllslng Machine Company and
tho Chester Ad Club. Honorable mention was Given to tho Philadelphia and Read
ing Hallway, Wilbur's Chocolato Huds and Coca Cola. Tho Judpes wero E. T.
Stotesbury, Louis J. Kolb, Joseph JJ. MacCalt; Dr. Ellis Paxson Obcrholtzer and L.
II. Klnnnrd.
TURKS WIN FORTIFIED TOWN, CONSTANTINOPLE SAYS
CONSTANTINOPLE. Juno 27. Tho fortified town of Ghltan, which tho Rus
sians raptured on their offensive drive, has been evacuated ns a result of Turkish
counter-attacks, the War Olllco announced today." '
CONGRESSIONAL ACTION ON SUFFRAGE PROMISED
WASHINGTON, Juno 27. Early action on woman HUffrnga by Congress was
promised at a conference today between a suffrage delegation led by Mrs. Carrie
Chapman Catt and Senators Sutherland, Works, Shafroth, Thompson, Jones, Pitt
man, Urady, Iane nnd Myers. The suffragists expressed their willingness to allow
tho suffrnga resolution to come to a vote without much debute.
FIELDER WITHDRAWS TWO NOMINATIONS
TRENTON, Juno 27. Continuing their political play, started during tho last
session of tho Legislature, tho Republican Senators In the special session of tho
body today forced Governor' Fielder to withdraw his nomination of Richard P.
Hughes, of Florence, for a full term as keepor of tho Stato prison and former Son
ator George C. Low ns County Judge of Ocean. Tho Governor's nominee for the
Commission to Provide Additional Accommodation for tho Insane wero passed uppn
favorably, ns the-Offices do not carry any Kalurlcs. .
BILL TO FEDERALIZE NAVAL MILITIA REPORTED
WASHINGTON, June 27. The Administration bill "federalizing" tho naval
mllltla'.-of-'tho 'iitatcs-wnarfunanlmbusly reported to the HoUso today by tho Com
mittee on Naval Affairs. Tho bill would authorize President Wilson to draft 'imme
diately for U10 naval servlco of tho United States tho men of the naval militia.-,
There aro about 9000 olllcers and men In tho naval militia. Chairman Padgett, .of
the Naval Affairs Committee, will malto an effort to get tho bill included in the
naval appropriation bill, now beforo tho Senate, to expcdlto passage.
NAVAL MILITIA FEDERALIZATION BILL REPORTED OUT
WASHINGTON, June 17. The House Navnl Affairs Committee reported out
a bill for tho federalization of the naval militia, tlfe principal features of which have
been indorsed by tho Administration. It enables tho President tp draft the men, of
whom there aro about 9000.
PRESIDENT SIGNS BILL FOR SUBMARINE CONSTRUCTION
WASHINGTON, Juno 27. President Wilson today signed the bill passed by
Congress authorizing construction of fleet submarines.
j
LOLITA ARMOUR EAGER TO BECOME RED CROSS NURSE
d
CHICAGO, Juno 27. Miss Lollta Armour, daughter of J. Ogden Armour, today
applied to tho authorities at Washington for enlistment as a Red Cross nurse.
Sho is awaiting word which will send her among tho first 100 women who will go
to tho Mexican border in tho event war is declared. Miss Armour was trained at
St. Joseph's Hospital, She Is tho young girl whoso physical disability was cor
rected by I) r Lorcnz, the Vienna surgeon.
1J0 ..iLLED BY FRENCH FLYERS AT KARLSRUHE
BERLIN, June 27. A report on the aeroplane raid on Karlsrhuo on June
22 shows that 110 persons. Including five women and 75 children, wore killed, and
147 persons Injured, Including 20 women and 79 children. (The French official
statement Issued on the nlslit of June 22 said that In reprisal for successive bom
bardments carried out by the Germans on tho open towns of Bar-le-Duc and
Lunevllle, French norlal squadrons nad bombarded Treves and Karlsruhe. A flotilla
of nine aeroplanes had dropped 40 shells on Karlsruhe).
20,000 AMERICANS FACING EXPATRIATION
LONDON, June 27. Between 16,000 nnd 20,000 Americans who, on Joining the
British army, took the oath of allegiance to King George, are wondering whether
they have expatriated themselves, Tho American expatriation act of 1907 provides'
that any American citizen who swears allegiance to a foreign State loses hU citi
zenship. A test is being made In the case of Adam Wreath, who came here with
a cargo of arms and horses and enlisted.
CAPTAIN MOREY, OF CARRIZAL FAME, NOTED FOR GRIT
WASHINGTON, June 27. Army officers who have served with Captain Lewis
S. Morey wero not surprised to read of the endurance he showed tn his escape
u cross th desert after the battle of Carrizal, Morey, who Is 41 years old, is looked
upon as one of the most physically fit men in the army and brother officers attri
bute his escape, wounded, to this act and to his grit and bravery. Although Morey
was one of the star men In the AVest Point class of 1900, slow promotion In the
cavalry kept him tn the rank of lieutenant for 10 years.
CONNAUGHT MAY BE "HOME RULE" VICEROY
OTTAWA, June 27, Confidential advices from England Intimate that the proc.
lamatlon of home rule for Ireland, except the six Ulster Counties, will be accom
panied by the announcement that the Duke of Connaught, Governor General of
Canada, will be the representative of royal authority in the self-governing portion
of the country. The Governor General has begun a farewell Inspection tour of
Canadian units training for overseas strvleje. He will leave for London In Octo
btr, by which time imperial legislation relating to home rule in Ireland Is expected
to be througlTParllament.
FRENCH 2000-TON STEAMSHIP FOURNEL SUNK
LONDON, June 37. Tho French steamship Fournel has been sunk.
Fournel displaced 2047 tons and was registered at Havre.
The
FRENCH PLANES HURL SHELLS ON GERMAN SHIPS
PARIS, June 27. Three French aeroplanes, armed with cannqns reeently pro
vided by the War Office, hurled, 65 shells on German shlp.s off the coast of Belgium,
yesterday, the War Office announced today. Further progress for French troojps
In the region Of Thiaumont works, northeast of Verdun, was also announced.
BLOCKLEY ASSAILED FOR CROWDED CONDITION
Blockley was found to be overcrowded to a deplorable degree by .the Com
mittee on Public Health and Preventive Medicine of the Philadelphia County Medi
cal Society, which made a tour of Investigation through the Institution recently.
Its finding were transmitted yegtedy to Director Krusen, of the pepartment of
Public Health and Charltlei. The committee's report commend the proposal to
build a new power plant and nurses' home for the hospital as a move that will
iMsen ths congestion. This report was signed by Br. J$n W. West. Or WUUwa
puttleU RoJbln, Dr. C. Lincoln Furfcussfc, Dr. J. Syam Schsehle, pr. Frirtcjt
X. rwn sa4 Cr Sears? A, hxm'lm f
MOUNT GRETNA
BOYS DELAYED
IN DEPARTURE
Muster Roll Order Up
sets Plans for Early '
Movement
GOV. BRUMBAUGH
ARRIVES AT CAMP
Entraining of Philadelphia
Troops May Be Delayed
Until Midnight
SECOND BRIGADE "NEXT"
Quaker City Boys Will Leave
for Border at Peace
Strength
CAMP BRUMBAUGH, Mount Gretna,
Pn., June 27. Orders that the 1st Bri
Bade and the other organizations that
will accompany It will be sent direct to
El Paso were received here today from
the War Department via the Adjutant
General's department. The troops will
leave this evening.
Other National Guard nenra, noten, soulp
nml photograph on page S.
By OARL L. ZEISBERG
Evcnino Ledger Staff Cqrreapondcnt
CAMP BRUMBAUGH, MT. GRETNA,
Pa.. June 27. Official orders from Wash
ington, rcnchlnc hero today; may delay ths
departure of the troops until after mid
night. The War Department has ordered
n complete muster roll .and. Identification of
tho various commands, nnd this necessi
tates an additional burden on the prepara
tions. Under the circumstances' the 1st Brlgado
expects. to leave possibly inthree sections,
with the 2d Regiment getting away' first.
Governor Rr'umbagi, .'bcneral C. Bow
Dougherty, fornier commander .of the Penn
sylvania National Guard, and other officials
arrived here today and'' will Inspect the
camp.
. . COMPLETE ItCJLIj NECESSARY.
A completo muster roll must be taken be
fore the National Guards can Co to ths
front. Orders' havo been .received this after
noon from Secretary Baker ordering such a
call before departure. This means ths
movement of troops will be considerably de
layed, as this Is a complicated mater, which
means even the taking of finger prints of
tho men. ,
Disintegrated movement of the troops 1
tho latest development In the troop moves
ment.
This Is necessitated by the train situation
here. It will take four or five trains of 13
or 18 cars each to move one regiment, and
these trains must also contain tho baggage
wagon tind cooking outfits. Between each
two passenger coaches will be a baggage
car, In which tho men will do their own
cooking. Then, too, they must taks
enough food with them to last five days
en route. This Indicates that the b6ys will
not go on transports out of Philadelphia.,
There hod been rumors about camp that .,
the boys would go that way, but no official
verification of the matter has been given.
Now it Is reasonably certain the move
ment will be by trolps the entire distance.
No" officials can say, for they do not know
the route by which shipment' of troops Is
to be made.
CAMP ORDER No. B,"
"Camp Order No. 6," Philadelphia's offer
ing to uphold the national honor along ths
Mexican border entraining today, and In
those three words and that one numeral lies
the explanation of the tremendous activity
that attends the departure. "Camp Order
No. 5" eet in motion the 1st Brigade and ths
auxiliary troops that are to accompany it.
Nightfall and they will be speeding toward
their unknown destination.
And with the Quaker City troops the first
to leave, orders are expected today that
will designate the next detachment to leave
for the border. Tho entire division will be
out of Mount Gretna by Thursday night,
according to the plans ofiAdJutant General
Stewart. The 2d Brigade Is next."
GOVERNOR ARRIVES.
Governor Brumbaugh arrived In camp at
H;1B o'clock today wlthhts son and daughter-in-law,
Mr. and Mrs. O. Edwin Brum
baugh, of Philadelphia, to make an un
official tour of the camp and bid farewell to
the boys before they go to the front. This '
Is not an official tour,' for none of tho mem
bers of the staff are with 'th Governor In
his party are also Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Black, of Harrlsburg. the Rev. Father
Brady, of Meyersdale and Secretary Ball.
U IS no definitely known even at dlvl
slon headquarters hero whether the 1st
Brigade boys! Including the 1st. 2d and ?d
Continued en V" Elsbt. Cslumn Four
THE WEAKER
FORECAST
For. Philadelphia, and vicinitv.
Cloudy nyui unsettled this afternoon,
and tonight, with probably ikowera;!
Wednttdau fair and somewhat cooler:!
light, variable ioindef beeomiug nortMf
Wf 0.
rOST AND BOUND,
uuat.i. I'l-KKis ljLisr. naumiie ihahih
ki. tt Brjwd atrwt Mouts-'twrr 1
an w -
i-4 aiu, .-Lvi wi tpt.ti
r,iry 11 rtnitrjpsa qp
jgMHi 4
