ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MOKNING, JUNE 27, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 40
ECIED
R
0
ANS PROCEE
1 1 llkULJiii AAA Juk ii Zi
THE
All
WAR
Roosevelt For Hughes, Whole Progressive
CANDIDACY OF
HUGHES GIN
' ENDORSEMENT
Republican A. I'. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 26. By a vote of
32 to ti, with nine members declining
to vote, the national committee of the
progressive party at the end of a
stormy session endorsed Charles E.
Hughes for president.
The fight in the committee to en
dorse Hughes was led by George W.
Perkins of New York, James R. Gar
field of Ohio, and Chester H. Kbwell
of California.
1 The radical element in the commit
tee, represented by Matthew Hale of
Massachusetts, Bainbridge Colby of
New York. Henry F. Cochems of Wis
consin, and John M. Parker of Loui
siana, vigorously protested against the
endorsement of any candidate for
president and fought the majority at
every step of the program. The min
ority's first move was to insist on an
open meeting oS the committee which
it won, after a nuralur of the com
mitteemen led by John M. Parker of
Louisiana bolted the meeting.
After Secretary Oscar King" Davis
read Colonel Theodore Roosevelt's let
ter in which he finally declined the
presidential nomination of the party
and urged that Charles E. Hughes be
supported in order to defeat Presi
dent Wilson, the committee voted to
accept the colonel's declination and
took a recess for luncheon.
At the beginning of the afternoon
session Chairman '.Matthew Hale of
Massachusetts ruled that the next
order of business was to fill the vac
ancies on the ticket caused by the re
fusn! of Colonel Roosevelt to run.
Bainbridge Colby of New York pre
sented the name of Victor Murdock,
chairman of the national committee
who is now on his way to China, as
the party's candidate for president.
This led to a clash between Ray
mond Robins of Illinois and Mr. Colby
in which the lie was passed. Mr.
Robins said Mr. Murdock had told
him he "Should not accept the presi
dential nomination and the proposition
to run a third party ticket was de
feated after a spirited debate by a
vote of 31 to 1".. James R. Garfield of
Ohio then Introduced a resolution en
dorsing Hughes for president and di
reetine the executive committee of
the progressive party to co-operate
with the resolutions committee. j
Henry K. Cochems of Wisconsin, j
raised the point that the committee .
had no authority to endorse any can- !
didate and that its power was limited'
to the filling of the vacancy on the J
ticket caused by the refusal of Colo- i
nel Roosevelt to run. going to write to her any more. He
Chairman Hale ruled that the mo- i said he thought not and started away
tion to endorse or recommend the ; again"
republican candidate for president was j "Something, I don't know what,"
out of order and a debate of several made him turn around he said. Marion
hours followed. , had taken the poison. He could see
Finally James R. Garfield apiealed she Wits in convulsion. He returned to
from the chair ami was sustained in her and said she had two more tremors,
his contention by a vote of 33 to 14. j Witness said that he became dazed
Puring the discussion Raymond P.ob- ' anj remembered only flying from the
ins opposed making any endorsement j woods. He took a train back to Mad
and indicated that he would support is(in
President Wilson if the progressives! Aft ipMVinif the wood , ,.i,t
did not put a ticket in the field. 'Mr.;
(Continued on Page Tbreei
ENDORSEMENT OF HUGHES IS
FULFILLMENT OF PARTY PLEDGE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 26. The resolutions
adopted endowing Hughes offered by
James K. Garfield, of Ohio, read in
part as follows:
"Whereas, a statement issued by
this committee in January last and the
plalform adopted by the progressive
national convent-ion set forth that put
ting aside all partisan considerations in
view of the existing world and national
conditions, we would work with any
man or party who saw the nation's
need and put forth a leader fit to
meet it; and,
"Whereas, we believe with Colonel
Roosevelt that in nominating Charles
E. Hughes of New York the republican
party has put forth such a leader, we
therefore endorse and concur in the
recommendation of Colonel Roosevelt
that we support Mr. Hughes.
"Resolved, that we hereby direct the
national executive committee to co
operate with Mr. Hughes and take any
steps that they deem proper effective
ly to prosecute the campaign.
"Resolved, that we leave to the state
committees the determination of action
In their respective states and recom
mend that whatever action they take
be taken after conference with the na
tional executive committee.
"The committee earnestly desires that
the power of the progressive movement,
which has, largely without political
victory, accomplished so great a hunge
in the aspect of American affairs, be
NOW ITALIANS ARE
FORCING AUSTRIANS
TO GENERAL RETREAT
ORPET FIRST
WITNESS IN
IN DENSE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WALK EG AN, 111., June 26. William
H. Orpet, the 20-year-old University of
Wisconsin student charged with the
murder of Marion Lambert, his school
sweetheart, took the witness stand this
afternoon and told on direct examina
tion of his meeting with her on Febru
ary SI and of her death. Adjournment
for the night interrupted the recital
which will be resumed tomorrow.
He did not see her take poison nor
have it about her, he testified, but he
saw her dying convulsions. He sup
ported the theory that the cyanide of
potasium. which caused her death was
taken in powdered form and not in so
lution, as insisted by expert toxicolo
gists called by the prosecution.
"I noticed a white powder on her
face and one hand," he said. "The
medicine." which he gave her to relieve
a supposed delicate condition; he said,
was simply molasses and water. He
said that he knew she could nothe In
a delicate condition and adopted this
subterfuge to relieve her mind, as she
kept insisting in letters that she waa
alarmed at her condition.
The witness gave an innocent in
terpretation of the alibi letters which
he addressed to his mother and to
Marion. He left Madison February 8.
In the hands of his friend Otto Peter
son he left the two missives, post
dated February 9 to be mailed on the
latter date. Tie explained that his own
parents would have objected to his
making the trip and that Marlon's
parents objected to him. In case he
shoo Id be seen and stories carried to
either household he figured that the
letters would be taken as proof-positive
to the contrary.
At the meeting in the woods he said
Marion expressed alarm at her condi-
tloon an(1 he trifd to persuade her that
h"r f""8 'f"1 groundless. He of-
fered her the molasses and water as a
"fixer" but she said that it would do
her no good.
He suggested that she would better
catch her car and started away but she
called him back and asked if he was
i threw away the bottle of diluted mo
lasses. The bottle was recovered nine
pursued and preserved intact for fur
ther service. To this end the commit
tee therefore recommends that the or
ganization of the progressive party be
preserved so far as possible and that
the state committees continue in opera
tion. The national committee will
maintain its organization for the same
purpose throughout the country."
Make Reciprocal Plans For
Shipments Over The Border
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, June 26. American and
Mexican officials have agreed to a re
ciprocal plan for importation and ex
portation along the Arizona-Sonora
border, according to an announcement
late today by General P. Elias Calles,
Mexican commander, at his head-
quarters in Agua Prieta, opposite here.
General Calles said that, under the ar
rangement, the United States officers
were to allow a carload of foodstuffs
or other supplies cross to Mexico in'
exchange for each Car of ore or other
material received from below the
boundary.
The Mexican general added that he
received a telegram from Secretary of
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Turning to the offensive in Trcn
tino and across the liorder in Italy
where they were driven recently by
the Austrians the Italians have forced
the Austrians to a general retreat
along the entire front.
Vienna admits a withdrawal of the
Austrian forces between the Brenta
and Etsch rivers, a maneuver which
it is declared was made to safeguard
their full freedom of action.
The Russians in Rukowina have
made further progress against the
Austro-Hungarlans in the region of
Kimpolung, but
in the operations to I
the north of Kuty, the Austrians have
repulsed the Russian attacks, inflict- !
ing heavy casualties uMn the invad
ers. according to Vienna. -In
Galicia the Russians in the re
gwn of Buezaiz have at last broken j
the deadlock and thrown their cos-
...... , ... , . . . ;
pied the villages of Siekerghine and I
Fetruve !
Heavy fighting continues in Vnlhv- i
r.ia, especiallv around Sokul. to the '
north of Lutsk. Here. Vienna savs.
th Germans have stormed Russian :
nn..!iin. ... .. r-,. p k.... .i !
thousand meters and held the cap- ,
turel oositions against .-oonier :
attacks. Along the Styr from Kotki
to Soknl. the Germans still are bom
barding the Russian positions while
around Linen ka on the Stokhod river
they have launched repeated infantry
ittacks in mass formations which Pet-
rog--ad asserts were all repulsed.
In the region north of the Pripet
marshes, to as far as Jacobstadt there
have been intense bombardments of
Russian positions by the Germany and
several infantry attacks, which the
Russian war office says were put
down by the Russian fire.
Since Sunday night when the
French re-captured German positions
between the Fumin and Chenois woods
northeast of Verdun, and repulsed a
German attack west of Thiaumnnt,
only artillery actions have taken
place. These have diminished in in
tensity. The British on their part
of the French and Belgium line 'have
carried out a number of successful
attacks and also have bombarded with
considerable success. German positions
in vnrious sectors.
Additional gains for the British
forces operating against the Germans
in East Africa are related in a Brit
ish communication.
The Italians have, sent two Austrian
transports loaded w ith troops, arms
and ammunition to the bottom in
the harbor of Durazzo.
Austrian Transpcts Sunk
ROME. June 26. Two Austrian
transports have been sunk in the
harbor of Durnzo by the Italian.. The
transports were loaded with troops,
irrns and ammunitions.
days later by K. II. Hawkins and
others sent out by attorneys whom
Orpet had by that time retained.
The case of the defense began at the
forenoon session with the opening
statement by James H. Wilker.-on,
chief of counsel for the defendant. The
statement was completed in ttie after
noon and to the surprise of thot;e w ho
have been attending the trial Orpet
was the first witness.
Every eye turned toward him as his
name was called, a slender youth of
marked regularity of feature but noth
ing rave a natural pallor to distinguish
him in a crowd. He wore a dark suit
and tie. For six weeks he had sat far
down in a big chair beside his mother
with an expression which seemed part
sullenness and part strain.
His face lighted, however, .as lie
heard his name called and with an en
couraging look from Mrs. Orpet, he
went forward and was sworn. His
voice was plainly audible at first but
soon developed periods of weakness.
,He recollected very little save the pur
port Of his conversation with Marion.
(Continued on Page Five)
State Lansing, in which plans for the
exchange were completed.
General Calles stated he previously
had filed a protest against the embargo
placed by American authorities on ex
portation of anything which could be
considered as supplies for the Mexican
army. He called attention to the con
centration of Mexican refugees at
Fronteras, it was said, and pointed out
the manner ln which authorities of
Sonora had protected American refu
gees. . Vlf we cannot get food across the
line thousands of families who have re
turned to Mexico will face starvation,"
one Mexican official declared. "Thei'e
are no food supplies now in the Fron
teras concentration camp."
III READY
FOR THOUSANDS
OF GUARDSMEN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASo, June 26. Hurried prep
arations for the reception of thousands
of national guardsmen were under
way in El Paso tonight. Military au
thorities expressed the opinion that
approximately 2i,mi0 guardsmen, will
arrive here before the end of the
week and with the five thousand reg
ular troops now on station here, will
make El Paso the largest military con-
j centration camp. in the f'nited States
with the entire Strength of the Massa
chusetts, New Jersey and Connecticut
'organizations, approximately Pt,iMiO
men under orders to entrain for El
,.a (n George Uell. Jr.. command-
Ing the local district taid that he was
""'king preparations for housing and
rationing of twenty-five thousand
mel-
U i. planned that about S.OtM) of the
sll,le ''(.ops. now on their way
will be stationed at Fort Bliss, on the
outskirts of the town, while camp sites
w(re ,Hld ln the corporate limits of the
city for the remaining r0UO. General
Bell said that water mains had leen
laid, sewer connections made and the
ground leveled.
Arrangements have been made also
for the drilling of recruits by non
commissioned officers of the regular
organizations on station here.
Maj. M. Elliott in charge of the i
my quartermaster depot here, said he
hnd begun a heavy concentration of
supplies preparatory to the arrival of
the guardsmen. It was estimated that
a million dollars' worth of supplies.
equipment, food and forage is in tnm
sit to the depot.
Military authorities today compiled
lists of motor cars and motor trucks In
El Paso available for army uses
emergencies and arrangements were
made with four local hospitals to
care for overflow patients from the
base hospital at Fort Bliss.
The cities on the international fron-1
tier were calm tonight. Some little ex
citement was caused by rumors that
American and Mexican troops had
again clashed between Carrizal and
Villa Ahumada but was allayed when
Loth American and Mexican outhori
ties denied the reports.
Discussion on both sides of the river
centered upon President Wilson's de
mands upon Carranza. Mexican offi
cials and Mexicans of the better edu
cated classes said they did not believe
there would be any objection to sur
rendering the American prisoners tak
en at Carrizal. This concession, they
said, ought to satisfy American pride
but they expressed fear it would not.
In the Mexican view the Carrizal fight
is simply an object lesson as to the
danger of letting the American troops
come into contact with the Mexicans.
Andres Garcia, Mexican consul to El
Paso, said today that "On Captain
Morey's own statement the Americans
were the aggressors at Carrizal as
they not only disregarded the warn
ing to turn back but afterward ad
vanced in battle formation."
Messages from the capital to the
Mexican consulate today said that
friendly relations between the govern
ment of Guatemala and the de facto
government of Mexico had been re
stored as the result of the American
crisis.
The Carranza authorities also an
nounced that safe conduct papers were
being issued to Americans who desore
to remain in the country.
Elizondo Tells
Of Clash With
Outlaw Band
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA CITY, June 26. Gen
eral Elizondo reported to General Tre
vino today that one of his columns had
clashed with a small band of outlaws
in the vicinity of Los Horcones in the
Salevo district, while from El Raio, Col
onel Gonzales Diaz telegraphed con
firmation of the report that the Amer
ican expeditionary forces have evacu
ated Namiquipa and are moving north
of El Valle.
General Elizondo reported that the
bandits had been operating under the
three chieftains Pedroza, Almeida and
Javier Guerrero and that he had cap
tured and executed the latter two. He
also said that in the engagement, in
which he suffered no casualties, he
seized a quantity of corn, arms, horses
and saddles.
Six American employes of the Alva
rado Mining and Milling company at
Parral, who reached here recently on
their way to the border, started to
Juarez tonight under an escort pro
vided by General Trevino. In the par
ty were T. G. Hawkins, Jr., A. W. Mor
ris, H. W. Collins, H. A. Buick, R. C.
I
Higley and J. Salanos.
Party Falls In Line
NEGRO TROOPERS WITH
SMILES FAGED DEATH
WITHOUT FALTERING
(Republican A. P Leased Wire
FI.IILD HEADQUARTERS,
Mexici
June 26. (By Wireless to Columbus,
N. M.) American negro troopers
faced almost certain death at Carrizal
with smiles in their eyes and slang on
their lips and they burst into song
once or twice as they fought their grim
fight against odds. This was the story
told by Captain Lewis S. Morey when
he arrived at field headquarters today.
"For forty-five minutes the men
fought, joking among themselves all
the while, even though they realized
we had been trapped and had little
chance of getting out alive,'' he said.
Captain Morey said that he had
never seen such valor as was displayed
by Captain Charles T. Boyd in leading
a handful of dismounted skirmishers
through the machine gun fire and into
the ambush of death. He added that
it was not until their ammunition was
exhausted that the troop was finally
cut to pieces, and told of the heroic
death of Lieutenant Henry R. Adair of
Portland, Oregon, in an attempt to re
plenish it.
Lieutenant Adair died fighting, his
last words being "go on. sergeant," to
a non-commissioned officer at his side,
Captain Morey said.
The two were on their way to the
pack animals carrying the ammuni- j ''-t from the rear by a Mexican he
tion. when they were intercepted near I "'' impressed into his gang, during
a small irrigation ditch by a detail of ! ""' NUlle with C-.irranza troops at
the Mexicans. Lieutenant Adair had I Guerrero, but his late still is un
alreadv been wounded, and hnd lost his i known, according to a semi-official
pistol in the previous fighting, but he j
had borrowed another and was fight- j
ing a hand to hand battle when he was I
killed. He fell backward unconscious
and was caught by the negro sergeant
as he slid toward the ditch which was
deeply filled with water. The sergeant
held Adair in his arms, his face above
the water until he died, the wounded
officer reviving only long enough to
whisper orders to leave him und finish
the mission. Captain Morey said that
Captain Boyd warned the men before
the fight that they were advancing
into the greatest danger. He reiter-
ated that the Carrancistas opened fire
first from their machine gun trench
(Continued on Page Two)
JORDAN FOR PEACE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, June 26. A telegram urg
ing that intervention in Mexico, if un
dertaken, be done "on its own merits"
and not upon the pretext of an obscure
clash of irresponsible troops, in which
each side blames the other, was sent
to President Wilson tonight by David
Starr Jordan, delegated by the Ameri
can Union Against Militarism, to at
tempt to prevent hostilities between
the United States and Mexico.
The dispatch pointed out that Mexi
co needs our support, and urged that
every alternative be tried before re
sorting to war. The text follows:
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS. Ariz., June 26. Military
ifl'icers of (he Arizona border district
spent rrtuch of their time today in
vestigating rumors of fighting and
vontemplaie.l raids from the Mexican
Mtle of the boundary, but when the
results of these investigations were
daced befoie General T. F. Davis, the
commanding officer, all proved to be
'.he res'ilts of the imaginations and
of uneasiness oeciusc of the possi-.
I.ility "f international trouble.
Actual events consisted of tho. ar
rival of 20't recruits who immediately
were placed in training; activity on
the part of the border patrol in pre
venting supplies .from reaching the
Mexican army of General P. Elias
Calles. and continued preparation and
repair c.f. army equipment "f ir any
eventuality."
One of the most persistent rumors
of tho day was that Sheriff Harry C.
Wheeler und a deputy had been
killed while invevititatini? condition I
along the border near Naco. As the I
sheriff wat ,m a trip ' through th'
county, this report could not be re
futed definitely . for .several hours,
when the official himself denied be
in;; implicated in any shooting affair.
Another alarm resulted on the
streets when reports were circulated
that United Strifes troops were en
gaged witti :t Mexican detachment it
Forest station, ten miles west of
here One man reported he had seen
another man who had seen a machin-;
gun platoon hurrying to the aid 'of
the Mnited States soldiers.
Still another resident, who was
wrrking on a building, declared he
RUMORS Of FIGHTING AND
IS PROVE IMAGINARY
DON'T BE GUIDED BY
MEXICAN LIGHTHOUSES
WASHINGTON, June 26. A
wireless message has been sent
broadcast to ships at sea, warning
them not to be guided by all light- b
houses on the Mexican coasts, the j
j navy department announced to-
night. A few have been extin-
guished and the characteristics of j
j others changed so that dependence
cannot be placed on them. 1
D a
s
FATE OF VILLA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
.'JULD HEADQUARTERS, Mexico,
Juno 2H i By Courier to Columbus.
X. M , June 261. Pancho Villa was
tained by Major Robert L. Howze.
who was cl on Villa's trail last
l.-M'lll. ire oiliccr learncu me ue
! tails of the bandit chid s wounding
j from one of the Mexicans Villa draft
! ed and who afterward deserted.
The men Villa impressed at El
Yalle after the Columbus raid, ac
cording to th deserter, were behind
Villa durinf the attack on Guerrero
and intruded to assassinate him in
orier t i give him to the Carrancistas.
Th.Mr plan failed, however, because
the tow-i surrendered.
"The day alter the Guerrero fight."
j the deserter, who said he drove the
i wagon carrying Villa, continued.
tContinued on Page Fivel
"If armed intervention is necessary,
which I doubt, undertake it on its own
merits, not making pretext of an ob
scure clash of irresponsible troops, in
Which each side blames the other.
"History will blame us most, being
strongest. De facto government im
potent, penniless except for our sup
port. Every other alternative should
be tried before declaring war."
Doctor Jordan was the only one of
the delegates, American or Mexican,
appointed to confer here in an attempt
to arrange a peaceable solution of the
Mexican contro"ersy, who had arrived
tonight.
had heard shots fired. Investigation
hewed several boys several blocks
avruy having a batle with fire crack
ers which would not keep until the.
Fourth of July.
Fort Huachuca was attacked and
captured, according to Dame Rumor,
and the residents of San Pedro val
ley, west of Naco, were driven from
their ranches.
However, messages from all these
settlements said there was no excite
ment, except that caused by reports
of raids on Douglas, Kogalcs and
other points several miles distant
from their districts.
IB
I
Arizona National Guard
Goes On Border Guard Ditty
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
i
NOGALES, Arts:.. June 26. Detach
ments of the Arizona National Guard
went on hon'er guard duty here tonight,-
it being the first time, it is
said Iere, since the Spanish-American
war fh'it any U. S. troops, other
than regulars have been this close to
service on foreign soil. '
A small body of Mexican cavalry
f ppeared today In Nogales, -Sonom,
and it was reported t.at 1,500 troops,
which leached San Jote, south of Na
co, Saturday, had moved east toward
Cabullona today.
In spite of protests of citizens here
T
IT
TO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
.WASHINGTON, June 26 Efforts
toward Latin-American mediation in
the Mexican crisis favored by Carranza
officials, collapsed today without hav
ing reached the stage of a formal pro
posal to the United States.
It was made plain by Secretary Lan
sing to Ignacio Calderon, minister of
Bolivia, who called with the intention
of asking whether the United States
would entertain an offer of the ser
vices of the southern neighbors to aid
in avoiding war, that the Washington
government sees nothing in the situa- .
tion that would warrant such pro-
ceedings.
Mr. Lansing talked with the minister
for half an hour and is understood to
have told him that the blame for the
grave outlook rested squarely upon
General Carranza. The attitude of the
United States was so fully outlined
that Mr. Calderon did not mention di
rectly the original purpeise of his visit.
When the minister left the state de
partment he said the time "seemed in
opportune" and that for the present,
the diplomatic representatives of six
1 South and Central American countries
who had approached the Mexican em
bassy on the subject of mediation and
received assurances that the Carranza
government was favorable to the plan
would not tender their good offices to
the United States. He indicated that
the attempt to arrange mediation might
be renewed if General Carranza's reply
to Secretary Lansing's last note fur
nished any basis on which the proposal
could be founded.' The United States
now is waiting for Carranza's final
word in reply to the note sent yester
day, demanding release of the prisoners
taken at Carrizal and a formal diplo
matic announcement of intentions.
The note reached Mexico City late
last night. Special Agent Rodgers re
ported Its receipt adding that he bad
failed in his first efforts to place it in
the hands of the Carranza minister of
foreign relations.
Undoubtedly it was delivered today.
Officials looked for an answer within
a day or two at most.
Meanwhile, both congress and the
war department put new urgency into
their preparations for war. Thercwere
indications that should a formal break
occur toward the end of the week,
every peissible precautionary step will
have been taken and General Funston
will be in a position to defend the bor
der adequately and reinforce Pershing's
expedition, although aggressive actions
may be delayed somewhat.
War department activities during the
day covered a wide field. Supplemen
tal orders to departmental commanders
called for greater haste in getting the
national guard to the border. Author
ization went out to accept the men
under the physical examinations on
which they entered the state service,
postponing final examination until they
are enroute or have reached the bjjj-der.
Those found unfit will be sent back at
once.
Estimates to cover the pay and ex
pense of the troops, totalling $SS,00tl.-
000 up to January 1, were laid before
congress. With them went figures of
$13,000,000 for the purchase of horses
and mules for army use. The total
estimates of the quartermaster general
alone pass the $100,000,000 mark.
The house passed the annual army
appropriation adding $26,000,000 for
emergency" purposes during the brief
debate that preceded the deficiency bill
carry ing $25,000,000 for national guard
pay, equipment and transportation
framed for presentation to the house.
Railroad representatives were called
in conference to hasten the movement
of troops and supplies to the border.
A definite plan was mapped out under
which all lines will work with the army
quartermasters in routing trains.
Special marka will distinguish cars
with army supplies, insuring them
right of way at all switching points.
Plans for military censorship over
newspapers, magazines and other pub
lications as well as over. lines of com
munication were talked over. A resolution-conferring
broad powers in this
regard on the president was framed for
submission to congress.
In the senate the national guard
draft resolution was passed and its
1 return to the house with its amend-
(Continued on Page Two)
I to the. customs, and military author
. Lies, movement of food and o'hr
1
DI FJ
supplies to the- Mexican side contin
ued today. Several tons each of
btiled hay, flour, and cases labelled
"se.ap" were carted from a local ware
house and loaded on cars in the .Mex
ican "'reign i ards.
The collector of the port refused in
stop the transportation of supplies by
wagon, saving that his orders placed
an embargo only on goods in freight
cars. Colonel W. H. Sage, commanding-
officer of the troops, also refused
tc intertere. Customs officials made
no attempt to search the packages for
rmmunition.
I
