WEATHER
MARKETS
ARIZONA Generally
fair.
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
June 21, 26.71.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 19, NO. 26.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, .TUESDAY MORNING, JUNE 27, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
mm
I. R. 10
National Committee Of Pro-,
gressives Endorses Repub-i
lican 32 to 6, And Seals
Fate Of Third Party j
Colonel Devotes 4000 words
To Eulogy Of Hughes And; I
Abuse Of Wilton. Many
To Support Wilson
fBv Review Leased Wire.)
CHICAGO, June 26.Hy a vote of 32;
to 6. with nine members declining to
vote, the national committee of thej
Progressive party today at the end of j
a stormy session endorsed Charles E. j
Hughes for president and the Bull j
Moose party practically went out of
existence as a national political or- j
ganization.
The fight in Ute committee to en
dorse Hughes was led by Geo. W. Per
kins of New York, Jas. R. Garfield of
Ohio, and Chester H. Rowell of Cali
fornia. The radical element in the commit
tee, represented by Matthew Hale of
Massachusetts. Bainbridge Colby of
New York. Henry P. Cochels of Wis-;
consin and John M. Parker of Louisi-1
ana, vigorously protested against the palrol, A Snread T
endorsement of any candidate for ratrow At 1-eat P"aa lO
president and fought the majority at J rard Cabullona. If Report
every step ui iur iiugmui. i
ority's first move was to insist on an j
open ueeting of the committee which j
'it won. aftr a number of the commit
teemen led by John M. Parker of LJU-!
tsiana. bolted te meeting. . . icitru a r i t? a e-r it;
T. R. Urge Hughes For All j oUCH A I LLAO 1 lo ' . .
After Secretary Oscar King Davis, ITNRFCTrTFn 'RFPflRT
read Col. Theo. Roosevelt's letter in I UfifvUr U 1 CAJ jKLrLlK 1
which he finally declined the presiden-;
tial nomination of the party and urg-1 p . Officer At NomIm
ed that Chas. E. Hughes be supported . customs Umcer Al PlOgaieS
in order to defeat President Wilson. Continue To Let Supplies
ine com iu liter- uicu ;
Colonel's declination and took a re-r
cess for luncheon. !
At the beginning of the afternoon'
session chairman Matthew Hale on
Massachusetts ruled that the, next ,
order of business was to fill the va-.
cancies on the ticket caused by re-!
fusal of Colonel Roosevelt to run. !
Victor Murdock Mentioned
n j n.ii... nf Xtaut Vnrlr nro
namoriage 1 J7" XT'i .since the Spanish American war that
sented the name of V ictor Marto. . s. troops, other than regulars;
chairman of the nat.onal commUtee haJ.e been thl8Pclose to service on for:
who now is on his way to China, as .
the party's candidate fo President ; j,
ThU led to a. clash betWeen f0' peared today in Xogalea. Sonora and
RoW,ins of ll.nols and Mr. Colby, to rep0rted that 1500 troops which
w.ll,ch J,'8 a8 t hH wm! ched San Jose, south of Naco. Sat
bins sa d Mr Murdock had 1 told h m
he would not accept the Resident al
nom nation and the propoton to run her J
a third party ticket was defeated af- authorUie8 movements of food and
ter a spirited debate by a rote of 31 BUDn,iM to the Mi(.ftn M
to 15. James R. Garfield of Ohio wen
IV u, a t a i
Hughes for presiden and directing
the executive committee of f. I
gressive party to cooperate with the
Republicans in the campaign.
Not Empowered To Endorse
Henry F. Cochels, of isconBin,
raised the point Ciat the committee 1
had no authority to endorse any can-
didate and that its power was limited
to the field of the vacancy caused by
the refusal of I ol. Koosevelt to run. ;
Chalrman Hale ruled that the mo-
tion to endorse or recommend the Re
publican candidate for President was
out of order and a debate of several
hours followed.
Finally Jas. R. Garfield appealed j
from tbe decision of the chair and j
was sustained in his contention by a !
vote of 33 to 14.
During the discussion Raymond.
Robins 'jpposed 'making any endorse-!
nient and indicated that he would sup-.
port President Wilson if the Progres-!
sives did not put a ticket in the field.'
Mr. Cochels said he expected to'
vote for Hughes but did not want the
committee to take any action. He de-,
clared that the Progressives should be ; it had increased its total to $1S0,-Itary training S 51)0,000 to 2,000,0O0.
permitted to go to any party they de- 000,000 through the addition of $26.-' Horses $SOO,000 to $3,800,000.
sired. Bainbridge Colby argued itiOOO.000 for many separate items. J Medical and hospital supplies $1,-
would be a mistake to attempt to de-1 While it was sifting amendments the 000.000 to $2,000,000.
liver the Progressive vote tt any can- House agreed on the $25,000,000 de-j Engineering equipment $roo,000 to
didate and that the method UBed ; fieiency bill to provide funds for call-' $1,000,000.
might defeat the very object of the j jng the national guard I nto federal! Small arms ammunition reserve $2,
committee. service. The appropriation bill now ( 500.000 to $4,500,000.
Wilson Supporter. ! goes to the Senate. Snel arms $2,000,000 to $5,000,000.
Mr. Parker declared many of the1 Discussion of amendments today re-j Ordnance $3,000,000 to $6,000,000.
Progressives were former Denfjcrats fleeted the threatened tone of the; Machine guns for the army $1,400.
and if the party was not to put up! Mexican situation. Members demand-' 000 to S3.600.000. and a separate ap
a national ticket, they should be per-led that there be haste in perfecting , pronrlation of $2,000,000 for the na
niitted to select their own candidate ' the bill and putting It through. tional guard, a new provision,
for President He intimated that he! Some of today's increases were Armored motor cars $150,000 to
might vote for President Wilson. made on recommendations of the mill-1 $300,000. The House decreased some
While the debate was at its height, ! tary committee which after framing I items, particularly appropriations for
Clarence Strouse read a resolution i the bill .advised increases when the, the national guard whose supplies af
said to have been passed by the dele-j situation along the border became ter federalization would be obtained
gates from Virginia to the Progres-1 scute. Others were added by thejthroueh the army appropriations,
sive national convention opposing thej House Itself. Some of the principal) Representative Parker of New Jer
endorsement of any other than i increases were: asey made an unsuccessful fight for
Progressive for President and
(Continued on Page 2)
thai-
I
FIELD HEADQUARTERS.
Mex., June 26. It was both a
peaceful and permissible mis
sion in which the two troops
of the Tenth Cavalry com
manded by Captain C, T.
Itoyd were engaged upon when
they fought Carranza troops
at Carrizal last Wednesday,
according to the view express
ed by officers today with Gen
eral Pershing's column. It
was peaceful, they declared,
because all the United StatPs
troops campaign had been
done in execution of coopera
tion by Carranzistas and per
missible because no limitation
had been agreed upon between
the two governments which
would restrict patrolling by
Americans. When General
Jacinto Trevino's warning that
his men would fire upon Amer
ican troops moving in any di
rection except north, reached
the expeditionary forces, they
were moving north gradually
raigning . the present addlnis
zistas would occupy the terri
tory evacuated and police it..
In the meantime patrols were
sent out on either side of the
American column for protec
tive and observation purposes.
They moved In whatever direc
tion their immediate desires
demanded.
1500 TROOPS SIX
MILES BELOW
Is True. Main Body Still
Camping At San Jose ,
Cross To Mexican Side De
spite Protests '
(By Review' Leased Wire) '
DOUGLAS, June 26. Dettachment
of the Arizona national guard went
being the first time, it Is said here.
Goar. oa.
MEXICANS AT FAULT
RUN GO
EAST
f ba'ed hay. flour and cases labelled . . . w. .
gQa werelirtd from a local ware. f (By Rev.ew Leased W.re)
house and loaded on cars ln the Mex- BROWNSVILLE. Tex.. June 26.-
ican frelRht yardg j One armed Mexican was sh'ot and
t... ,.,. of ihe -.f,. to(kliie(l and another was believed to
stop the transportation of supplies by !
..,.. Mvlne that his order nlacerf !
an embargo only on goods in freight
cars Coi W- H. Sage, commanding
officer of the troops, also refused to i
jnterfere. Customs officials made no !
attempt to search the Dackages for !
ammunition,
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON'. June 2C-
-The ,
House passed the army appropriation
bill today by an unanimous vote after
. For field artillery, for national!
guard, increased from $3,OOO,nO0 to)
8181,010 000 FORI I Mil
ip innnnnniiTrn nv nniinr
io HrrnurniHitu di nuuDt
REG
M
NFANTBY
GOMES 10
BISBEE
Boys Of Twenty Second Arej
Rushed Here By Train,
From Douglas At Midnight ,
To Establish New Base
DEVELOPMENTS AT j
NACO RESPONSIBLE!
Regiment Will Patrol Border!
Below Here, West To San'
Pedro Where Geronimo
Reigned Long Ago j
(By Review Leased Wire.)
DOUGLAS, June 26. The
Twer.ty-second United States In
fantry was ordered to leave here
at toon as possible tonight for
Bisbee, 25. miles northwest of
here. The regiment was expect
ed to entrain soon after midnight
and should reach Bisbee within
two hours. These soldiers were
being sent to guard the border
west of here, it was said, on or
ders from the war department at
Washington.
Lieut. Colonel Robert i H. Noble,
who for several years was aide de
camp to the governor general in the
Philippines is In command of the reg
iment. It was explained that he will
establish his base at Bisbee from
which point patrols will guard the in
ternational line to tlte west of Naco.
To Protect San Pedro
A delegation of residents of the Sau
1 Pedro valley, a part of the new Bis
bee district, visited General- T.. F.
Davis at headquarters here today and
described that portion of the valley
along the line which has been the
scene of bandit activities since the
days of Geronimo. the Apache Indian
chief.
Geronimo's Old Haunts
Smugglers Gap, at the southern end
of the Huachuca Mountains, used by
outlaws during the last 60 years as
an avenue of escape from officers and
the trails along San Pedro river were
described in detail by the visitors.
With the exception of Companies A
and D. which will come to Bisbee this 1
morning with the wason trains, the
full Twenty-second regiment, under
command of Lieutenant-Colonel Rob
ert Noble, arrived at t ot ta and de
trained shortly before 2 a. m. today.
This morning the regiment will
make camp alon gthe side of the hill
immediately next to the present camp
of the F company of the Fouiteenth
cavalry.
TWO MEXICANS SHOT
NEAR BROWNSVILLE.
have been wounded by a detachment
of the Third Cavalry on patrol duty
tonight . near Progreso, Texas, 41 1
miles west of Brownsville. The tVi
Mexicans failed to halt when called
upon to do so bv the patrol. The j
wounded Mexican escaned into Mex-
ico.
$8,000,000 divided equally
between
manufacture and purchase.
Artillery
ammunition for national guard. $3,-1
000.000 to $8,000,000. For citizen mil
an appropriation of $2V0fo,ono tor
small arms,
.
HUGHES PRAISES T. R.
AND RAPS WILSON
NEW YORK. June 26.
Charles E. Hughes, Republican
nominee for president, sent a
telegram to O. K. Ihivls, sec
retary of the Progressive na
tional committee tonight wel
coming 'the support of the
Progressive Party and ar
raigning the present adminis
tration for "its weakness and
incertitude."
l:i making public the con
tents of the telegram. Air.
Hughes ul.o gave out a letter
he had written to Colonel
Roosevelt in which he de
clared that the nation was in
debted to the (Colonel for the
"quickening of the national
spirit and for the demand for
an out and out Americanism."
i
i
i
!
i
SENATE FAVORS
16
L
SHIPS III
V,
,T .
Wamng
! Intelligence. That
. Powers Building Numerous
; Dreadnaughts Spurs. Com
! mittee To Action
SUB-COMMITTEE
; ALAJlNt. HA3 AL 1 tAJ
!
: Bill Must Yet Be Approved
r n ... . .
oy ruu . Lommuiee Aira
Then By Whole Senate.
Adds 10 Destroyers Also
(Py Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. June 26. A provis
Ion for completion wi.htn three years
CAPITA
of the navy general board's building fln(ls wf natirnnl gurd.-men were un
program of sixteen cupital ships was ri .BV in FA Paftn tonieht. Military
written into ine navt-i oiu oy a sen
ate KUfcroiulnUtee fodii on the recom
mendation of President Wilson.
The subcommittee previously had
agreed to accept the board's recom
mendation for completion of the pro
gram by 1922. but reversed Itself by
unanimous vote after Secretary Dan
lets had explained to the comm
men at today's meeting that the Pres-,
ident as well as navy officials was anx
ious that construction be speeded up
oo n,..h noalhlo It i. nnleratnnd
itoli. onn-- ,h rata at
'which European, nations are building
Inlaved an imnortant nart in the de-
I p ayed an important part In the de-
LiaiUII.
20 More Destroyers I troops sent him. It Is piannea tnai ; ,T, "" me l nitea Mates now is waning
An addition of 10 destroyers to the about 50M of the state troops now on:!1, " ,'"4""1' hat Carranza. final word in reply fo
building program for the coming year 'their wsv here will be stationed at ; J'??p " !'JLV,h? iSif, ifiL the not 8enl Tes,terday. demanding
also was decided on, by the subconi-, Fort Bliss on the outskirts of i t.h."5 Orei? i ?' r'lM of the Prison'M tak l C-r"
mittee that would bring the total ves-itown. while camp sites were laid in i 'f 7 h ?K "' iU r'Ml nd orm, diplomatic an-
sels of thls.type authorized for 1917 i the corporate limits of the city for I llempl IO rePeni.-i it. nouncemeut of intentions,
up to twentv. I another 5000. Arrangement have: dair Dead ( The note reached Mexico City late
There were numerous other increas-1 ben P'de also for the drilling of Lieut- Adalr died fighting, his last last night. Special Agent Rodger re
es over the construction provisions :rPCrilit8 bv non-commissioned officers ; word being. "Go on. Sergeant." to a ported its receipt adding that b bad
j ti,e bill as passed bv the House,
ln -
. ciuding substitution of eight capital
B.Mns next vear four hattlecruisers
jand four dreadnaughts-for theb( armv ouarteniiaster' department
; House provision for five battlecruis-1 8id h( a noavy con-
ters and no rirearinaufrht. I n.. . .
I The administration Is particularly
: anxious that at least two dreadnaught
be authorized. . The subcommittee
Ipects to report Thursday to the full
committee
committee.
a aainAaiifA
II ANN I .A I H
iwi wi nnu wnssw
NlVflr NHIrMrN I V",aa with four ,oc1 hospital! to carelgeant held Adair ln his arms, his face
Ulinl Willi IIIUIllW for overflow patients fro mthe base above the water until he died. Lhe
'
Car Load Of Foodstuffs
lowed To Cross For
Every Ore Car, Out
Al-
(Bv Review Leased Wire.
DOUGLAS. June 26. American and
Mexican officials have agreed to a re
ciprocal plan for the importation and
exportation along the Arizona-Sonora
border, according to an announcement ,
late today by General P. Ellas Calles.
Mexican commander, at his headquar-l
ters in Agua Prleta. opposite here. '
General Calles said that under the ar
rangement the United States officers
- - . . !
I
i
were to allow a varioaa or rooastunsi- - . ...
or other supplies to cross into Mexi-! M., June 26(. Francisco .Villa was
co in exchange for each car of ore or'i,0f (rom the rear by the Mexican he
other material received from below
the boundary.
The Mexican general added that he
received a telegram from Secretary
of State Lansing, in which plans for
the exchange were completed.
General Calles stated he oreviously
had filed a protest against the embar
go placed by American authorities on
exportation of anything which could j
be considered as supplies for the t
Mexican army. He called attention
to the concentration of Mexican refu-
gees at Fronteras. it was said, and
pointed out the manner In which au
thorities of Sonora had protected Am
erican refugees.
"If we cannot get food tbe line thou
sands of families who have returned
to Mexico will face starvation." on
Mexican official declared. "Ther ar
no food supplies now1 in the Fronteras
concentration camp."
120,000 U. S
I GUARDS ON
! W 10 EL
j mi
Massachusetts, New Jersey
And Connecticut Troops
To Reach Border By End
Of This Week
MILLION DOLLARS
i OF SUPPLIES BOUGHT
Hospitals And Trucks In El
Paso Invoiced For Use By
U. S. In Case Of Emer
gencies (By Review Leased Wire.)
FRAMINCHAM. Mass.. June 20.
The Ninth infantry regiment, Cue. first
of the Massachusetts militia ordered
for the Mexican border, left here at
11:10 tonight for ei Pao, Texas
. FORT SILL. Okla.. June 26. Four
.batteries of the Fifth Field Artillery
stationed here were ordered tonlsht
,to entrain immediately fo itbe border,
two to Kl Paso. It was expected they
would leave early tomorrow. These
batteries are the B. C. D and F. They
are equipped with 4.7 howiztors which
throw 60-nound projectile "00 yard
and 4.7 rifles. In addition batteries
F and D have howitzers capable of
throwing a 120-pound projectile 6500
yards.
EL PASO June 26. Hurried prep-
..mtions for the reccDtion of tuous-
authorities expressed the opirti that ! as they foueht their grim light a opportune" and that for the present
approximately 2O.D0O cuaniamrn will ! gainst odd.' ThU was the story told ! diplomatic reprewnaiiv of six
errive here before the end of the by Captain Lewis S. Morey when he South and Central American cu
week. and with the SOOrt regular troops arrived at field headquarters today, tries who had approached the Meri
no on station here, will ir.ske El Paso "For forty-five minutes the men can eiubaswy on the subject of medlar
the largest mllitarv concentration fought. Joking among themselves aty tion and received assurances that the
ramn In the I'nited Ftats. With the I the while, even though thev realized Carranza government was favorable
. entire strength of, the Massachusetts
P:.et Jersey and Connecticut organiza-
Ition. aDpro.timatelv 20 000 men under
orders to entrain for El Paso. General
: ueo. I5eil. jr.. couimanuwm
the local
i military district, said he was making
ll Ml, I..11U 11 " iiia.utft
.
i nrenarations for the housing ana ra -
tioning 25.000 men that he might De,"""- iurouBii ine umtuiue puu nrr
J addi,i,i and Into the ambush of death. He
r ' ... ' A A it i . A kn I. wmu nv. . . .. . : 1 lk..t. m
. . . .
,nf ih recular orzanizations on sta-
tion bere
tion here
' .-:ih iriti!. . h.r
ZTrr hal of H
"A hat $1 o5o 000 worth of
m-:' f onuipment f'od atnl Torage is
, ?0"lf" ?h?Xnot 18
,n ,r!,n,,lt to ,he dppot-
Private Trucks Under Orders.
Military authorities today compiled
"s,', or mofor r" ann motor 'CK
j In Kl Paso available for army use in
i emergencies and arrangements were
! hosoital at Fort Bliss.
The city was calm tomgbt. Some
(By Review Leased Wire.
iGOIJKED VILLA WAS SHOT
BUT AFTER THAT Q U I EH SABE?
(By Review Leased Wire.)
FIELD HEADQUARTERS. Mex..
June ?n lltv rnnritfkf tn Pnlnmhiia V
had Imprisoned with a gang during
the battle with Carranza troops at
Guerrero but his fate is still unknown
according to a semi-official report
given out here by Major U Howie,
who was close on Villa's trail last
April. The officer learned the details
of the bandit's wounding from one of
the Mexicans Villa drafted and who
afterward deserted.
The man Villa impressed at EI
Valle after the Columbus raid, accord
ing to the deserter, was behind Villa
during the attack on Guerrero and in
tended to assassinate him In order to
go over to the Carrancistas.
Their plan failed, however, because
tbe tom-n surrendered Just after Y!ll
fell with Urg lead LullHt In tus
right leg. The niissita entered bJi
leg just bark of the knee joint and
came out througta the shinbono
10.000 TROOPS ARE
. MENACING P$RSHING
COLI'MBCS. X. M.4 June 26.
Ten thousand Carranisista
cavalry have been concentrat
ed in the last week at liustillo,
seventy miles west of Chihua
hua City, according to reports
'iere tonight. The command is
made up largely of veterans of
bandit operations in Southern
Mexico and have been moved
north in tweniy mile trips.
Little U known here a to the
purpose of the concentration,
but it is assumed it U to pre
vent the American expedition
command, in tbe event of hos
tilities, making a rapid dash
along the Mexico Northwest
(rn Railway to tbe gates of
Chihuahua City.
Given Up For Dead At Carrt -
.l n k.. R.w1. XT
CAPTAIN MOREY
STILL ALIKE;
REACHES
CAMP
, imuum, uuci officials collapsed today without
ders Into Camp After Ab ' waving reached the stage of a formal
rV P O ' i proposal to the I'nited States,
sence ui rive isays ' j H made Pin by Secretary Lan
sing to Ignacio Calderon. minister of
TELLS OF HEROIC " i Bolivia who called with the inteatioB
nriTU rr? miiDirtrciO' asking whether the United States
UfcAirl Ur UUMKAULi wouti .tertain an offer of the r-
Colored Troopers Fought Gay ln "vn'ding war, that the Washington
. J r i t tl. government sees nothing in the sittu
ly And tsamely lO lhe-tion that would warrant arbitration
End Even Singing As They 1 Proceedings. Mr. Lansing talked with
C 11 liriU D it . 1 tbe nuniKter for half an hour and in
rell With Bullets nnderstood to have told him that the
', blame for the grave outlook retd
(By Review Leased Wire.) ' squarely upoh General Carranza. Tbe
FIELD HEADQUARTERS. Mex.. ; attitude of the United States was so
June 26. (By wireless to Columbus) ; fully outlined that Mr. Calderon did
American negro troops faced almost sot mention directly the purpose of
certain death at Carrizal with smiles . visit.
in their eyes and slang on their lips When the minister left the state de
and thev burst into none one or twice sartuient he said tbe time "seemed in-
; we had been trapped and had little
chance of getting out alive," he saidt
Boyd Charged Ambush ;
Captain-Morey said that he had
never seen such valor as was display-
ed hv Cantain Chariest T Rnrt in
; 1 ' - J
la.Jd.. Knn..i jt...n . . .i.t.
, .ST""1 "i":
v n i w n aw r a u nnr iimtii v nut u n
. """'' "" ' "s
Captain Morey said. The two were
i on uieir way to ine pacs animais car-
1 ry,aK 'h" "m,muI,itlon- "hen they
- ere ,? 'f rt ted.nfar, T . 7,'?
! tB ditch by a detachment of Mexl -
Uut- Adair nad a,r"ady b
andfl had n's P' '
! th PT'vlOU? figh',';S- bUt hvad br"
, rowed another and was fighting '.
Uand-tohand battle, when be was kill-
j
, iie fell backward unconscious and
was caught by tbe negro sergeant as
; M(. iia towar(j the ditch which was
j deeply filled with water. The ser-
f wounded officer reviving only long
j enough to whisper orders to leave
1 (Continued on Page
2)
about four inches down. After several
days, the Mexican said, the leg turned
black about twelve inches above and
belom- the wound.
"Tbe day after the Guerrero fight."
the deserter, who said he drove the
wagon carrying ..Villa, continued.
"Villa prepared to leave for the south.
as he had learned the Americans were
at Namquipa. He left Belt ran with The House passed the annual army
the principal part of his army at Gur-j appropriation bill after adding $2.
rero and started toward Parral. He 000.000 for emergency purposes dur
took 150 men commanded by Nicholas Ing the brief debate that preceded tu
Hernandez. i deficiency bill carrying $2,000.00 far
"During the flight he lost bis cour-! national guard pay. equipment and
ago and at times appeared uncon
scious. He would cry like a child ana
curse me when the wagon Jolted over
a rock. After we passed San Antonio
and started through the mountains the
torture became too great (or him
aud be was carried in a little buggy.
He appeared to be growins weaker
every day."
Th dese-rter det lam Us kaJw
floUtint of Villa's movements after
reachiug a place called Rancho Col
oVado. )
place called Rancho Col-
I). S. REJECTS
10 ATI
HI LIITItl
POWERS
Lansing Tells Diplomats Ser
vices Are Unwelcome
That There's Nothing Can
Deter The U. S.
.
CARRANZA MUST
ANSWER TO U. S. ALONE
Fifty Thousand Guards -. Ex
pected On Border In 3
Weeks. Censorship Plan
ned. Millions Voted
(By Review Leased Wlr.
WASHINGTON. June 2. Efforts
MWitrd Latin-American mediation in
Mexican crisis ravorea Dy isrran
: vices of the southern neighbors to shI
to the plan would not tender their
S001 offices to the I'nited States. H
muiraiea inai in. miriupi in irminr
mediation might be renewed if Gea-
eral Carrsnza s reply to Secretary
Lansing's last note furnished any bis-
.
la nn m:lit-h tna. nroiwuil t'Ckiilil m
L,h
Await Reply
.
To New Not
...
"- " morn vim u m
the hands of the Carranza minister of
rorelgn affairs. t ndoutitedly It was
delivered today. Officials looked for
, "n "ns''r rithin di,y r ,mn " ,h
1 most.
Preparing For War
Meanwhile both Congress and the
war department put new urgency into
their preparations for war. There
were indications that should a furmal '
break occur toward tbe end of th
week every possible precautionary
step will have been taken and Gener
al Funston would be in a position to
defend the border adequately and re
inforce Pershing's expedit'on. al
though aggressive action iuay be de
layed some days.
Speeds Up Guards
War department activities daring
the day covered a wid efield. Supple
menting orders to departmental com
manders called for greater haste In
getting the national guard to the bor
der. Authorization went out to ac
cept men under the physical examina
tions on which they entered the stl
service, postponing final examination
until they are enroute or have react
ed the border. Those found nnfil will
he sent back at once.
Millions For War
Estimates to cover the pay and ex
penses ot the troops totalling $sS.0Mt.
000 up to January I. were laid before
Congress. With them went figures of
$13,000,000 for the purchase of .Homes
and mules for army use. The total
estimates of the quartermaster gener-
a! alone pass the $100,000,000 mark.
transportation.
1 Railroads To Cooperate
Railroad representatives were call
ed in conference at the war depart
ment to hasten the shipment of trwoya
and supplies to the border. A defr
1 nit plnn was mapped out uud-r
. which, all lines will work with arwy
ouartrrp-tr in routing trains.
I Special marks will dial intuit1) cars
with amy supplies, insuring the'ta
right of way at all switchine points.
(Continued cn Pag 2)
