I fTodas W Prices .TL jrf ivXtl SstrttXVlV !' 0N f
I NEW Y0RK QUOTATIONS. WL M 11 IT I Villi 1 1 1 Nfcl 1 XI 1111 VI 111 'IS
- .-. .; VU I 4; vL M v v I I nCUt I UP Cll -U pages .
Ml lead, $6.90; apeltec $.11,375; copper J feA 'Ik ' LV 7 ' I i5
.3 S27 0029.25. f X - WEATHER Utah: Fair Tonight . ., h :
.;! "J- D and Wednesday; Slightly Cooler In SH
JF " North Central Portion Tonight. B. ? I
. FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER - ff
,' ' Xt" Y"rN' " !Lf!lLf! OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, JUNE 27, lsi& En,.,., .. s.o., c... ,, , . ,..afnc.. c,.. u I 11
I Mexicans Must Release U.S. Cavalrymen '
I Within 48 Hours or President Will Act 1
I; URMZA MOST SEND DEFINITE
REPLY OR SUFFER CONSEQUENCES
Release of Prisoners and Declaration of Intentions Must Not
Be Delayed War Department Driving Forward Efforts
to Get Sufficient Troops to Border to Back Up Gen
eral Funston's Regulars President to Lay
f Whole Situation Before Congress.
j RUSH ORDER IS PLACED FOR AMMUNITION
3 Washington, June 27. There were clear indications to-
'm ' day that if American cavalrymen, captured by Mexican troops
U at Carrizal, were not released within 48 hours, action would
s?1 ' be taken by the United States.
3 The impression prevailed in official circles that President
lij Wilson would not wait beyond Thursday at the latest and pos-
33 sibly not beyond tomorrow afternoon for a definite reply from
jj the Carranza government to the note demanding trie immediate
release of the prisoners and a declaration of intentions.
A Special Agent Rodgers at Mexico City reported in an
-IS overnight message that he had delivered the note to the Mexi-
jjl can foreign office yesterday morning.
I While the diplomatic aspects of the crisis awaited Car-
ij ranza's action the war department drove forward its efforts
jj ' to hasten mobilization of the national guard on the border. It
is certain that no aggressive military operations can be under-
j : taken until a substantial number of state troops is available to
J 1 back up General Funston's regulars who unquestionably
i I would lead any movement.
I President WiNon's first step, should he decide to force
"' the issue, probably would be to lay the whole situation before
i congress in joint session.
I Philadelphia, June 27. A rush order for 20,000,000
rounds of small arms ammunition was being filled at one of
the government arsenals here today. The cartridges will be
r-iT-oirrnrl tr rV anvprnmpnt arsenal at San Antonio. Texas.
It will require two weeks to complete the order. Men are work-
; ing day and night shifts.
j
El Paso, Texas, June 27. Two negro troopers, ragged
and half dead from hardships, were lodged in the jail at Juarez
today, after being brought from Guzman, where they were
captured by de facto government troops. They are believed
' to be survivors of the Carrizal encounter.
i
Washington, June 27. While the
United States awaited the final word
from General Carranza that will de
termine whether there is to be peaco
or war. thousands of national guards-
) men all over the country were ready
to entrain for the border to reinforce
General Funston's command for any
operations developments may make
necessary.
Secretary Lansing yesterday pre-
'' vented even formal proposal of medi
ation by telling Minister Calderon of
; Bolivia that the American government
believes nothing in the situation is
subject to arbitration. General Car
ranza previously had accepted "in
principle" the offer to mediate.
' With a singleness of purpose, ad
ministration officials were looking
dlcating General Carranza's future in
today for word from Mexico City in
tentions toward the United States.
This was expected in reply to the last
American note demanding release of
the prisoners held at Chihuahua.
Eliminating "Red Tape."
Even greater efforts were made by
the war department to eliminate "red
tape" and expedite the dispatch of
national guardsmen to relieve regu
lar army border patrols for a possible
- Mexican campaign. Orders issued
will permit postponement of final phy
sical examinations until troops reach
their destination. Railroad officials
were called on to give troop and army
supply trains right of way over much
other traffic.
j. Progress of the Hay resolution au-
thorlzing draft of the national guard
' into federal service was delayed while
,t the house today was to consider
amendments made yestercay by the
' Beuale. The upper house eliminated
tho 1,000,000 appropriation for fami
lies ol guardsmen but authorized the
I excusing from service those whose
families are dependent. The house
may not concur and thus make further
del?y by forcing the resolution into
conference committee.
Mexican officials here have expres
sed the opinion that General Carranza
would surrender the American prison-
crs whatever reply he might make to
the demand for a formal diplomatic
' expression of his purposes. The state
' department has had no official report
' tending to confirm this view.
;l Army Conditions Improvelng.
I Evptv clay's delay in what seems the
I Inevitable break in relations with the
Mexican government sees the army in
better position for the swift action
) that may follow. This was influenced
against pressing matters to an im
mediate issue.
Advices from General Funston's
headquarters indicates that trains
loadod with state troops are sweeping
.southward today from many parts of
f v
A 'r
the country. . Additional regiments
are entraining, or receiving the last
necessary equipment- At the war de
partment and in congress hurried
measures are being taken to provide
supplies promptly for the army order
ed to the border
Getting Americans Out of Mexico.
Another task aided by delay in an
outbreak of general hostilities is that
of getting Americans out of Mexico.
The number there has been reduced
to less than a thousand
Consular advices during the day
from the few state department repre
sentatives in Mexico reported quiet in
the vicinity of their posts.
State department officials took
formal notice today of the activities
in the United States of the Carrauza
bureau of Information. Reports as
to conditions and international rela
tions are telegraphed from Mexico
City to the United Slates by the bur
eau of publication. Officials suggest
ed that tho American press should,
scrutinize these reports carefully be
fore using them.
Warships Leave San Dlego.
San Diego, Cal.f June 27. The de
stroyer Stewart was scheduled 'to
sail from this port today for Mazat
lan, and the naval collier Brutus, with
coal for the Pacific fleet, for LaPez.
To Form Home Guards.
San Diego, Cal., June 27. Major
Johnson Hugood, commanding at Fort
Rosecrans. announced tonight that in
addition to the regular troops and mi
litia to be placed under his command
for duty on the border here, he will
organize companies to be known as
home guards. These companies are to
be formed in every town in the coun
try adjacent to the international line.
Needy Provided For.
Chicago, June 27. Needy families
of Chicago militiamen who have been
called for service are to have the
benefit of $50,000 of the proposed
Mexican border fund of $200,000 being
raised by the Chicago branch of the
American Red Cross. The organiza
tion, il was announced today, will be
ready for active relief work within a
day or two
New York, June 27. Three regi
ments of Infantry of the New York
National Guard departed on trains to
day for the Mexican border and other
militia units were on trains expected
to move at any hour. Four trains car
rying the Seventy-first regiment left
this afternoon.
The Seventh of New York City,
1300 strong, left Jersey City this aft
ernoon. Several hours early J000 of
ficers and men or the Fourteenth of
Brooklyn got under way from Peek-
I
PERSHING, "THE MAN ON HORSEBACK"
,L- (
General J. J. Pershing. , , M-' - T
This is a new picture of General J. J. Pershing, the man who is in
the saddle in Mexico. Photo was taken this month at General Pershing's
headquarters near Namiauipa.
skill, N. Y. Both are destined for
Brownsville.
The Forty-seventh of Brooklyn,
nearly 1000 stroing, was under orders
to entrain today from Hoboken.
American rJote Approved.
Rio Janerio, June 26. The newspa
per Opalz expresses approval of the
terms of the American note to Mex
ico and hopes that Mexico, recogniz
ing Its disadvantageous morAl posi
tion, will spare the continent a war
embracing the direst consequences.
"If war is unavoidable," says the
paper, "what would be the situation of
the American chancellories; what the
role of Brazil Such Is the disquieting
enigma of tomorrow."
rtn
MEDIATION WITH
MEXICODECLIIO
State Department Counsel
Turns Down Offer of Car
ranza's Washington
Lawyer.
Washington, June 27. Counselor
Polk of the state department today de
clined mediation of the Mexican diffi
culty with Charles A. Douglas, a
Washington lawyer, formerly counsel
for General Carranza who called to
say he had authoritative advice from
Mexico City that Carranza would
agree to mediation with the military
status quo maintained in the mean
time. Luis Cabrera, minister of fi
nance In the Mexican cabinet, tele
graphed Mr. Douglas today that Car
ranza was willing to enter into such
an agreement.
uu
BANDITS MURDER
MANJD WIFE
Cross Line and Kill Owners of
Parker's Ranch Bodies
Found by Employes.
Columbus. N. M., Juue 27. Will
Parker, owner of Parker's ranch sit
uated 35 miles southwest of Hachlta
and his wife, wero murdered, presum
ably by Mexican bandits some time
this morning, according to informa
tion received hero this afternoon by
relatives.
Pnrker and his wife were said to
have been found by employes early
today at the ranch house. Parker's
place was visited several days ago
by Mexican bandits and a number of
hbrses and cattle run off. A troop
of cavalry followed their trail at the
time but did not cross tho border.
Ml AGAINST
SENATE. BILL
Votes Down Amendment to
Hay Militia Measure Which
Eliminates Aid for
Guard's Families.
Washington. June 27 The house
today by a ote of 119 to 5 disagreed
to the senate amendment to the Hay
militia drafting resolution eliminat
ing a million dollar relief appropria
tion Tor dependent famllios or enlisted
guardsmen in the federal military ser
vice A conference on the resolution
was asked.
All senate amendments to the reso
lution were disagreed without discus
sion including the one striking out
of the declaration that in the opin
ion of congress an emergency exists.
i oo
! WM CASEMENT
NOT DISTURBED
Appears in Court Facing High
Treason in Cheerful Frame
of Mind.
London. June 27. The second day
of the trial of Sir Roger Casement for
high treason opened with no change
in me apauieuc auituae wun wnicn
the general public regards the case.
The principal reason offered for this
lack of Interest is that the attention
of the country is focused upon the
continent.
The atmosphere of the court room
is not that of a trial for lifo and the
chief justice was compelled yesterday
to insist that there must be no laugh
tor in court. The laughter was evok
ed by the repartee of tho Irish soldier
witnesses. The attitude of Casement
himself Ib far from being one of grav
ity, lie appears neither crushed nor
subdued by the seriousness of his po
sition and takes the proceedings in a
most casual manner.
Tho prisoner appeared to be In a
cheerful frame of mind as he entered
the dock today although he displayed
little of the jauntiness shown at the
preliminary examination.
The prosecution resumed the intro
duction of testimony immediately.
The witnesses were the same as those
called at tho preliminary bearings and
few now points were brought out dur
ing the early proceedings.
Witnesses gave accounts of the J
movements of Sir Roger and his com
panions, Captain Robert Monteith and
Dnniel .7. Bailey, from tho tiino of
their landing on the morning of Good
Friday In a boat from the German
submarine near Trallee until the ar
rest of Sir Roger.
John McCarthy, and Irish farmer,
described finding the boat in which
the three men were said to have land
ed and told of finding buried on the
beach two handbags containing revolv
ers and ammunition.
Servant Girl Identifies Casement.
Mary Gordon, a servant girl, identi
fied Sir Roger as one of the three
men she met hurrying away from the
beach early Friday morning. She was
followed by Thomas Heame, a ser
geant in the Irish constabulary who
told of tracing Sir Roger to the ruined
fort in the vicinity of which he ar
rested him. Hearne Identified revolv
ers, maps of Ireland and a flag of the
revolutionists which were found in a
handbag. There was a stir In the
court room as the big green emblem
of the rebels was spread out in the
center of the room and all eyes turned
toward the prisoner. He shifted un
easily in his seat and then leaned
back with folded arms, smiling nerv
ously as he gazed at the flag.
Alexander Sullivan, chief counsel
for the defense, volunteered the in
formation to tho court that the em
blem on the flag was that of the City
of Limerick.
Armed Against Ulster Volunteers.
Mr. Sullivan cross-examined the po
lice witness at length In regard to
the general unrest in Ireland and
brought out the fact that people of
the south were arming themselves
against those of the north and against
conscription and that after Curragh
incident, when the military refused to
serve against Ulster, the southerners
felt they could not trust the soldiers
to protect them against Ulster volun
teers. One police witness said that al
though the carrying of arms and dril
ling went on unhampered by the au
thorities, the landing of arms would
have had a very grave effect
oo
EMBARGO EELT
. . BYJEEANS
Troops Leave Nuevo Laredo
Because of Lack of Forage
for Horses.
THREATENING NACO
i
i
! Sah Antonio, Texas. June 7. The
embargo on exportation of supplies
into Mexico from the United Stales
already has affected the Mexican
ai my, according to news here. It be
came known here that the reason
that the Mexican force left Nuevo
Laredo was because they were unable
to obtain forage for their horses from
this side of the border.
The situation opposite Naco, Ari
zona, where 1,500 Mexican troops are
being held on trains, aroused wide
spread speculation here. General
Funston has announced that American
officers were sure they had fathomed
the design or this Mexican troop
movement and reinforcements were
sent Cb the American fore at Naco
and entrenchments have been thrown
up there. The stram placd on the
fact, however, that the Mexican troops
were not allowed to leave the cars
on which they were loaded is taken
by some officers here to indicate a
possible move against some other por
tions OI iue eai .ucin-rtii uuiuci.
The armored motor truck recently
assigned to the troops at Fort Sara
Houston has proved its efficiency.
When tried out late yesterday it ac
counted for one milk wagon, one am
bulance and one cow.
The activity at Naco was explained
today. Information had reached head
quarters that Uie Mexicans had
planned to sweep across the line to
BIsbee and there raid the offices and
storehouss of the copper smelting
concerns. The Twenty-second Infan
try was rushed from Douglas to
Bisbee last nlgh-L
Strengthening Eagle Pass. i
To strength the garrison at Eagle
Pass a battalion of the Third Field
Artillery was ordered- there today.
Two more batteries of the EJfth Field
Artillery at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, were i
ordered to El Paso.
General Pershing reported to Gen
eral Funston that the two squadrons j
of the Eleventh cavalry that had been ;
sent towards Carrizal, have fallen back J
on tho main line.
Ambulance Company No. 6 and
Field Hospltnl No. G, both of the regu- (
lar army from Fort Ethan Allen, Ver
ruont, reached here today. (
oo
FILIBUSTER PARTY
IS BROKEN UP
Nogales, Ariz., June 27. A heavily
armed filibustering expedition, organ
ized to cross tho line at Sasabe and
bring back an automobile seized by
the Mexican authorities, was broken
up here last night by the military au
thorities. Eighteen men, all carrying revolv
ers, or automate pistols and most of
them rifles or shotguns, wero quietly
leaving town In six automobiles when
a squad of infantry appeared along
the road. i
HEAVY FIGHTING DEVELOPING ! ! 1
. ALONG FRONT HELD BY BRITISH 1
P mm I
Intense Fire Directed Against Germans From Both Sides of fW
the Somme French Recapture Another Section of ;
Ground Lost at Verdun Struggle for Possession of fi j
Village of Fleury Still Going On Germans fc B!
Claim Capture of Russian Positions West iw fil
of Sokul in Volhyniau &j
ITALIAN DRIVE IN TRENTINO CONTINUES 11
. llil'j
lift!'
More Austrian Positions Taken Alpine Troops Carry Crests- j fflj
of Calderia and Campanella After Much ' r If"'
Gallant Fighting. 1 ft if!'
Paris, June 27, 2:50 p. m. Nine German divisions con- ! j' B1!
centrated in the recent attack on Thiaumont, north of Verduc, P H
have been definitely identified, according to a statement pub- f fu
lished from semi-official sources today. Between Avocourt, ?, J, I
on the extreme left of the French front at Verdun and St. M 1-,
Mihiel on the extreme right, a total of 23 divisions, including ; I
6J2 Bavarian divisions has been identified, the statement adds. i Bri 5'
!frfc!
Latest reports from both Berlin and
London lead color to the belief that
the long threatened concerted attack
by the entente allies on the various
fronts is In preparation, if not in ac
tual process of execution.
At Verdun the situation has not
materially changed over night. Paris
treports further progress for the
French in regaining ground in the
region of the Thiaumont work, north
of the citadel.
Operations by Teutonic submarines
are being continued in" the "Mediter
ranean, where the British steamer
Cardiff and the French steamer
Fournel have been sunk.
Pnric Tnni 97 T."?n n m TIip
French have recaptured another sec
tion of the trenches at Thiaumont in
the Verdun sector, according to an
official statement issued by the war
effice today. The struggle for the
possession of the village of Fleury is
still progressing. Three allied aero
planes dropped 65 shells on German
ships near the Belgian coast.
The statement says:
"On the left bank of the Meuse a
night attack with grenades against one
of our trenches west of Hill 304 was
repulsed easily.
"On the right bank we made pro
gress jn the region of Thiaumont
works.
"On the heights of the Meuse a
grenade attack against our positions
near Mouilly broke down under our
fire.
"Jn Belgium three of our aeroplanes
which were engaged in a reconnaiss
ance fired 65 bombs on German ships
near the Belgian coast."
Italian Drive Continues.
Rome, June 27. Via London, 4-50
p. m. Following their recent suc
cesses on the Trentino front, the Ital
ians have driven back the Austrians
still further, the war office announced '
today. The Italians have captured
Poslna and Arsiero.
The statement says:
"Between the Adige and the Brenta
our advance continued. In the valley
of the Arsa wo advanced yesterday
across strong entrenchments at Mat
tasone and Anghebeni and completed
the conquest of Monte Menerle.
"Along the Posina line we cleared
the enemy from the southern slopes
of Monte Aralta and took Posina and
Arslro, thus, beginning tho advance
on the northern side of the valley.
"On Sette ComunI plateau our in
fantry, preceded by cavalry patrolB
reached the Punta Corbln Treschi
Conca Fondi Cesuna line, extending
to tho southwest of Aslago.
"To the northwest we crossed the
Nos valley and occupied Monte Fiara,
Monte Taverle. Snltz Kesserle and
Cima Delia Saette.
Gallant Alpine Fighting.
"On the right our Alpine troops car
ried the crests on tho Calderia and
Campanella after much gallant fight
ing. "Along the whole front there is con
siderable evidence of the enemy's bar
barous methods. Arsiero was de
stroyed by fire. Asiago and many
pretty villages were reduced to smoul
dering ruins. Near Magna BoschI
some hundred naked corpses of our
soldiers were found in mire
"In the upper Vancle wo occupied
MasI dl Tognola."
"One of our air squadrons, consist
ing of ten machines, yesterday,
dropped fifty heavy bombs on the Cal
llano railway staUon in the Legarina
valley. Satisfactory results were ob
served. The machines returned safe
ly. This morning and Austrian aero
plane waB brought down in a fight
near Verona.
Turk War Report.
Constantinople, Monday, via Lon
don, June 27, 1:55 p. m- An an
nouncement from army headquarters
today Bays:
"In Persia, Itussian troops of all
irmB, under protection of their forti-
fied positions made an attack on June a J it t
2C against our forces east of Servil. J j
The engagement lasted until evening. Bl i j '
The Russians finally withdrew with- lj
out accomplishing their purpose, hav- ml
ing suffered considerable losses. Ri z
"A Russian detachment which at- ftiij
tempted to outflank our troops ia this f?!
sector was compelled by a counter at- f.Ji ,
tack to return to its position. jjr
"Our troops operating south of this I'lohil
sector approached the neighborhood jL 8
of Chilan. The Jlussiaus avoided a Ig j j
fight ,evacuating their positions and till '
withdrawing to the northeast. i If
"Caucasian front: On the left wing NT 'h ' i
north of the Tchoruk, we are consoli- a" 5 '
dating positions which we captured I ' .
fvnm tho RncQinnc At nlliPi- nnints W fi.
our troops are pursuing the enemy u H
who is fleeing from this front toward If1! t i
the coast." tf'fi u
18 I
f Sip; J
i,R' l
? -1 i
'-Hi IT
especially intense m uie vicinity iu ' j
Sommc. M- p., I
The statement says: Wmll II
"On the British front and the south- W m jj
em wing of the French army patrol Bj, j a 1j
fighting has developed. Numerous JJK 1 j j
?as and smoke clouds floated tow am SI j jj
us. They did no damage to the Ger- ffiH f ; j
mans and at some placed floated back if J " I
to the enemy trenches. The enemy U "1 nf
fire was directed with especial inei- wj -j
sity against us on both sides of llm Djj l , !
Somme. L l1 '
"As a result of the bombardmeut of KH j
Nesle by the French twenty-two of S'l' i
their own countrymen were either kill- f 'f '
ed or wounded 1 j , J
"On the right bank of the Meuso R ;
French attacks northwest and wesl of i j f
the armored work of Thiaumont and ' ' i
southwest of Fort Vaux were inef , lj
tective. In Chapitre wood an enemy $'m V
detachment of two officers and a few Wm jj
dozen men was surprised and its mam- ife Sf. U
hers made prisoners. Jp ; 1. a
"A British biplane was shot dov.n $N 3 l
southeast of Arras. The occupants l l ij
who were wounded wore made pris ' 1 1 jjjU
II
Russian Positions Captured. m !
Berlin, June 27. via London. -1:55 p 'l I
m. Russian positions west of Sokul jfr iJL !
In Volhynia have been captured bj 'jl'lf'flfl
General von Linslngen's troops and 'Pl H
held against Counter attacks, accord- Jf J H
ing to an announcement of the war (rll'Sfl
office today. Several hundred Rus- , (j
sians were taken prisoner. , f' i i flH
Regarding the eastern front the , r wM
statement says: . il il
"Army group of Field Marshal von ?- ,' Si
Hindcnburg: German detachments iiJUH
which penetrated Russian positions of A .Jl
Kckkau brought back 26 prisoners ana ; ;j j j jljfl
one machine gun and one mine throw- , fi WM
er. Another detachment which enter- v j j H
ed Russian positions north of Miad- ' S j ? ifl
ziol brought back one officer. aSS men, jrA J iH
six machine guns and four mine throw- & j ( jjjH
"Army group of General von Lin- -ft i H
singen: South of Sokul we stormed h i 'jH
Russian lines and took several bun- ' J '
dred prisoners. Enemy counter at- i, q j ? $jM
tacks were nowhere successful." y I ! 3Jfl
Steamers Sunk by Submarine. ' jH
Marseilles, France, Juno 27. The . j j f rjjjH
French steamer Fournel and the Bng- ' $ i 4H
lish steamer Cardiff have been sunk f V ,
by a submarine In the Mediterranean. ', t fl
The French steamer Vllle de Madrid t ', XjH
with 52 passengers on board, was pur- ; U ; jjH
sued and cannonaded by a submarine i ,,J nlH
but escaped. ; 1 J ft IH
' 'JM
The Fournel was a vessel of 2047 'sj -lB
tons, built in Glasgow In 18S0. There I ' l
are two British steamers named the ' fl
Cardiff, one of 280S tons and the oth-1 j j Jl
er a trawler. Tho larger boat has I , '. I fM
been engaged in the trans-Atlantic , j j M
trade and was last reported on her i aM
way to Sydney, Cape Breton Island. " f J TM
I
