for May, 1916 I 5 7/ U
J>T<Bu?Ilty N?w?pipf for Om Horn
FAIRMONT, WEST VIRGINIA, TUESDAY EVENING, JUNE 27, 1916.
TODAY'S NEW8 TODAY
ASSOCIATED
PRICE TWO CENTS
Used as Clue to Put It
Over.
HaD
MUCH f POSITION 10 IT
Predicted That Present Plan
Must Be Materially
Modified.
*o bond the city for the sum ol
*?00,000 wu the surprising prt>osi
Hon submitted by the oB&rd of A1
fairs at a meeting of the Chamber of
Commerce yesterday evening. This
report was laid before the Chamber
by Mayor Bowen who is also the
chairman of the committee which has
^been working on the bridge question,
~ justification of the proposition of
lor the tremendous sum of
),000, or nearly one million do)*
which is far in excess of what
be needed to construct all the
tie Improvements that are con
[plated in Fairmont, the Board of
tirs through the report of the chair
x of the bridge committee stated
with this sum all of the existing
indebtedness of the cit>
be paid oil and the new blanket
of $900,000 worth of bonds would
i the only obligation of the
; was the statement of Finance
Cbnmissioner Barnes that a saving
could ba made on the interest of the
present debt by calling in the several
outstanding bond issues Including the
^unredeemed water works bonds. The
precarious condition of the South slab
bridge was urged by the committee
Pai^a reason for puuing over to thifi j
tremendous bond issue at this time, j
p The manner in which the $500,000
| Is to be used, according to the Board
of Affairs is: $275,000 for oatstand-,
tng bonds, $350,000 for the Mononga- j
hela River Bridge, $100,000 for Coal
run bridge, $35,000 for widening and |
Improving the grade with the paving
of Locust avenue between McCoy
street and Cleveland avenue, $10,000
for sewer and culvert crossings in i
Coal run opposite the Normal school,
$30,000 for general extension of the
sewer system, $10,000 to take up the!
pressnt floating indebtedness.
\ The members of the Chamber pres
ent were rather stunned by the huge
ness o fthe proposal and a motion to
approve the proposition and to rec
ommend that the Board of Affairs call
|'a special election and submit the prop
osition to the voters of the city w&s
made before any discussion of the
^proposition was begun. Before this
motion was voted upon however the
' discussion of the various phases of
| the question was begun. The fact
that no provision had been made for
* the heap of any of the public service
corporations o fthe city was brought
out and it appeared that the city of
ficials bad no assurance that any help
from any of these would be given.
""" discussion also brought out the
. that even if the bond issue could
_j voted on and passed the actual
Moonstructian of any of the bridges
could not possibly be begun before
Imext Spring. The delay necessary af
ter the election for the proper float
lng of the bond issue and the prepar
ation of the plans and specification*
o fthe new bridges yould make the
time before the bids could be let so
late in the year that the unfavorable
weather would necessitate the post
ponement of the construction.
Jt was further pointed out that the
repairs necessary now for the South
aide bridge would have to be made at
- once and that to use the present con
dition at this' bridge- as an argument
for the passing of such a stupenduous
bond issue would be poor policy.
Many of the members stood out
strongly in favor of tabling the prop
osition and appointing additional com
mittees to call upon the Traction com
pany the railroads and the county
court to insist that they pay their
share of the cost of the two bridges.
The fact that the Traction company
?and tha Monongahela railroad would
greatly benefited by the new
bridges was urged in support of this
Wiegel, then made a motion
to table the project and appoint such
committees to confer with the public
Merrice companies and county court
inil consider the matter at the next
rclplar meeting of the Chamber
which comes on the seoond Thursday
ln^Jaly. Mr. WJegel in support of his ]
notion to postpone the discussion ot i
tfcejfcrbposition until the next meeting
cleariy and concisely emphasised all
CCootbroed on Pig* Eight.)
Guests From Jane Lew
Misses Sue and Nell DavissJfo ,
of Jtee Lew, have been the guests for
a ftw days of Miss Margaret Strick
ler en route to New Concord. Q? to
~~ tmgster, Mrs. Blake Sfcrfck
WJiat of the Bond Issue?
(Editorial)
A remarkably small number of the members of the Fairmont Cham
ber of Commerce attended one of the most important sessions ever held by
that body, which look place yesterday afternoon at die headquarters in Ate
Watson building. A motion to bond the city for the immense sum of $900,
000 to provide for new bridges over the Monongahela river and Coal Run,
various other improvements about the city and the payment of die present
city indebtedness, carried after considerable debate by 12 votes to 4, a re
quest that the motion be placed on die table until the next regular meeting
and thus give ample time for consideration of die proposition from every an- |
gle having been lost by a tie vote of 10-10. The expression of the Chamber
of Commerce yesterday in voting for the bond issue proposition cannot well
be taken as the representative opinion of the body.
Should the present bond issue proposition go before th- people as it i
stands, it seems certain that it would be rejected. It would be a great
blunder to attempt to put it over at this time in its suggested form.
The West Virginian stands today, as it has in the past, for public im
provements. It stands for new bridges for the city and other important civic *
benefits. But it stands for the new bridges and a bond issue to take care of
the expense on certain conditions- The West Virginian has always contend
ed and still contends that the public service corporations which will be ben
efitted by the improvements should bear a just share of the burden. The
West Virginian will not subscribe to or support any bond issue proposition in
regard to new bridges, until such a time as the public service corporations
show a disposition to do what is just and fair that they should do.
The proposition yesterday made no provision whatsoever for assistance
from the public sen-ice corporations, although it is understood that the Mo
nongahela Valley Traction Company has stated that it would contribute
$40,000 to $50,000 on the cost of the two bridges, and we are reliably in
fromed that the Traction Company has never receded from this position.
There is no reason why the Monongahela Railway Company could
not with propriety join in the cost of constructing the bridge over die river,
as its terminals were so located that they would be adjacent to the eastern
end of the bridge, and furthermore the grade of the tracks of the railway
company was established at such a level as to make it necessary to extend
the length and height of the east end aproaches to the bridge, including a
heavy fill and serious change of grade on Merchant street to reach the high
er level of the bridge, and the railway has not yet definitely refused to help
bear the cost of construction of the bridge.
Another matter seems important to us, but aparently is too trifling to
engage the massive minds of the board of affairs, and that is the little mat
ter of some forty odd thousands of dollars?closely approximating $50,000
?erroneously collected from the citzens of the city by the County Court in
the form of bridge taxes, all of which has been expended by the Court out
side of die City of Fairmont, and it is well established that die Court is not
going to spend any county funds on bridges within the municipality of Fair
mont. It is quite possible that a way can be found to enable the Court to
expend this amount as its portion of the cost of these bridges.
As the Monongahela Railway Company, die Traction Company or the
County Court have never definitely and finally refused to help build the
bridges, would it not seem to be only good business practice for the people
?themselves through committees appointed if need be?at a mass meeting
to undertake the work of placing this improvement on a business baas if their
official representatives and civic bodies can not be depended upon to do it
for them.
The West Virginian is firmly of the belief that the sentiment of the
majority of the voters of the city is against the immense bond issue as it is
now ouUined by the Board of Affairs.
The West Virginian again states that it has always been for public im
provements and still is. But it cannot under existing conditions give its ap
proval to the bond issue proposed yesterday, which makes no provision for
any funds froXi the public service corporations and makes the people pay
the entire bill. We do not deem such action fair or just, and, therefore,
'cannot subscribe to it
New Kind of fag Makes Life
Very Interesting for Police Chiet
Chief of Police Fred Harr and a un
known man, -was somewhat under the
influence of spirits frumenti, staged
a very mellow melodrama yesterday
afternoon to the great joy of hundreds
of onlookers in several sections of
the city and suburbs who got a fleet
ing glimpse of the two speeding hu
mans as they went past on high with
no regard for traffic ordinances nor
the humid conditions of the weather.
About 3:30 yesterday afternoon- a
partially intoxicated gentleman of toil
came down Locust avenue and stopped
to discuss finances with a man who was
helping fix the street near Alexander
place. It is related that the gentle
man of toil suggested to his fellow
man that he allow him to take his
money and park it in the bank for
him. Objection and fists were rais
ed simultaneously; .and a call wai
sent to the police for a peace envoy.
Chief Harr responded in noble fash
ion and inquired of the intoxicated
man concerning the trouble. He di
rected the chief to a party 10 feet
away, who in turn told the Chief to
go back to the drunk. Just as Harr
turned back, the drunk came to life
and started to run like a dog with a
can tied \s^It.
"Here, Here," yelled Harr.
"Here, the deuce. 1 aint here, I'm
gone." replied the fugitive
Both threw on the Juice, slapped in
the cut-out and the chase was on.
They made the curve at Fourth street
and started down that highway 90
miles an hour. Halfway down the
street, Harr pulled Ms gun and blew
a hole in the heavens, thinking to
scare the man ahead.
"Are you shooting at me. Mister?"
Grows, Cooks, Serves :
Course Dinner at 79
__?
Mrs, Anna Brand celebrates her
seventy-ninth anniversary on the
twenty-third of June with a dinner
party to a few friends. Covers were
laid for eight. P. G. Brand wtte and
son John, Calvin Gould Brand, of Far- i
mlngton; Miss Pearl Gould of Will
iams Tcwn; Miss Nellie Poling, of
Maaalnfton; Miss Sybil Brand and
Mrs. G. E. Stllllngs of Downs.
It seems wonderful that at the age
of 79 years she could prepare s din
ner served In three courses?Bosst
Inquired spirits frun2c!?ti, turning his
head slightly as he ran-so his xoice
would carry.
On down the street they went. Peo
ple hearing the heavy hoof beats of
the Chief ducked in their homes,
thinking the Mexicans were coming
A small boy, peering perilously out
a window yelled: "Say, Chief, did
that man shoot at you?"
"No." replied the Chief, 'some per
son put off a firecracker.*'
On, on went the marathon. After
a time the speeding men reached the
road gang, and, according to reports,
the guard of the gang Joined in on the
side of Harr to,help him run. The
fleeing drunk cut out thxough dale
and wooded hill. The guard kept
picking the leaves from the trees near
the fugitive with his gun, hoping to
halt him. But the result of his effort
was this:
"Don't you hit me. Mister." And af
ter stopping to give this admonition
every few seconds, the man would
keep right on.
About supper time, after miles and
miles of rig-rag, Hillcrest was reach
ed by the drunk, and as the Chief
came up the mountain aide a voice
exclaimed far up the height:
"My first stop is Hundred, where's
yours?"
That was too much for Harr, and
he went back to Fairmont.
"By Golly,* said Harr, today. 'Til
get that fellow the first time he
comes to to\fci. I lost 10 pounds and
wore out a pair of shoes trying to
?et him, but he bad too good a start.
But HI get him yet. I must go out
and find what his name is this after
noon.
chicken, new potatoes, new peas and
lettuce, all raised by her own hands;
pumpkin pie, sponge cake and coffee,
strawberries and real "cream, jams,
jellies, &c~ a plenty. The decorations
were sacried lillies and June roses
and dasies.
Auntie Brand as she is called in
Downs received a number of beautiful
presents and birthday greetings. Ev
ery one present enjoyed the afternoon
hugely.
P. E. Club to Meet?There will be
a meeting of the Political Equality
Club tonight at 8 o'clock at the Wom
an's Building. All members are urged
to be present as business of import
awe wfflbe transacted.
il*
Personal Humiliation Or
War With the U. S. the
Alternatives.
FEW AMERICANS LEFT
Those Who Remain On Mex-.
ican Soil Will Stay
There.
(By Associated Prewl
WASHINGTON*. June 27.?There
?were clear indications today that k
American cavalry men captured by
Mexican troops at Carrizal were not
released within 40 hours action would
be taken by the "United States.
The impression prevailed in offic
ial circles that President Wilson
would not wait beyond Thursday at
the latest and possibly not beyond to
morrow afternoon for a definite re
ply from the Carranza government to
he note demanding the immediate
release ( the prisoners and a declar
ation of intentions.
While the diplomatic aspect of the
crisis awaited Carranza's action, the
War department drove forward its ef
forts to hasten mobilization of the
National guard on the border. It is
certain that no aggressive military
operations can be undertaken until
a substantial number of state troops
is available to back up General Fun
ston's regulars who unquestionably
would lead any movement. .
Mexican officials here have express
ed the opion that General Carranza
would surrender the American prison
ers whatever reply he might make to
the demands for a formal diplomatic
expression otM&JMffpose?^,
"The* S&t&^epSFOseBt has^had no!
official report pending to confirm this
view. Evflry day's r^ply seems-the
inevitable break in relation -with the
Mexican government sees the army
in better position for the swift action
that may follow. This has inflnenc
ed against pressing matters to an
immediate issue. Had the border
forces been sufficient to release, tie
regulars for aggressive operations it
is thought probable a time limit would
have been included in Secretary Lan
sing's note demanding release of the
orison era.
Advices from Funston's headquar
ters indicate that trains loaded with
state troops are sweeping south to
day from all parts of the country.
Additional repiments are entraining
or receiving the last necessary equip
ment.
At the War department and in Con
gress* hurried measures are being
taken to provide supplies promptly,
for the army ordered to the border.
A definite statement of the number
of guardsmen accrued to the border
was not available.
Secretary Baker's -order directing
that movement of these troops be
arranged between General Funston
and the officers commanding the Vari
ous army depots cut out the red tape
and delay incident to centralization
of all this work in Washington.
Another task aided by delay in an
outbreak of general hostilities is that
of getting Americans out of Mexico.
The number there has been reduced
to less than a thousand. Secretary
Daniels stated today that the Navy
department had now sapplied ample
accommodations for all refugees who
may reach the sea coast The Atlan
tic fleet will not be ordered to Mexican
waters he said except "under excep
tional circumstances."
Consuls advices during the day from
the few State department representa
tives in Mexico reported quiet in the
vicinity of their posts. J
A report from Frontera on the east
coast said ten Americans there re
fused positively to leave Mexico.
Those still in Mexico City a~'small
number are also expected to remain.
Most of them have Mexican wives.
Fifty Americans at Maxatlan are going
to stay; about the same number at
Tampico and two in districts near the
border are also going to stay even
in event of war.
State department officials took for
mal notice today of activities in the
United States of agents of the Carran
za bureau of information. Reports
as to conditions and international re
lations are telegraphed from Mexico
City to the United States by the bu
reau for publication. Officials sug
gested that the Amehrican press
should scrutinize these reports care
fully before using them.
Mrs. S. N, Baker
Buried Today
Funeral services otct the body of
Mrs. S. X Baker whose death occur
red Sunday, were held this afternoon
at 2:10 o'clock from her late residence
on Center street. Rer. C. E. Goodwin
o tthe IFrtt Si. E. church conducted
the services assisted by Rer. Clarence
Mitchell ot the Central Christian
church. The body was Interred in
Woodlawn cemetery by Undertaker
Xsicn-r* and Son.
ifetS
Recruits Wanted
Nation*! Guard officers In Fair
mont say today that there are a
number of vacancies In the local
companies. Young men who wish
to Join the guard are requested to
report at the armory TONIGHT.
County Court Talks
About Public Sales
The county court remained in ses
sion today and county licenses for va
rious kinds of business are still being
issued. The majority of these license
applications -will likely be in by tomor
row. Under the existing law the
county clerk cannot grant license ex
cept while the court is In session.
Mayor Anthony Bowen appeared be
fore the court last evening and the
question of the auction sales by coun
ty officials from the sidewalk in front
of the court house was continued last
ed. So agreement or decision wa?
reached concerning the matter but it
is likely that some other place will
be used for the auctions if a suitable
location can be found.
HEARING CONTINUED.
The trial of Constables Satterfield
and Michaels and Auctioneer Mel vie
Earner arrested for obstructing traf
fic by holding a public sale in front
o fthe court house was continued last
night until 7:30 o'clock next Momny
night. Michaels and Satterfield a si. oil
the mayor for a continuance so that
their attorneys Abbatichio and Bell
could prepare z proper defense. Lcn
ner who is represented by Sweeney
Fleming did likewise/
MANY CALLED BBI
FEW HEEDED THE
OPPORTUNITIES
Nominee List Cut Deeply
In Seven Thousand
Club.
Out of possibly two hundred nomi
nees brought forward by their hopeful
friends as possible winners of the
grand awards to be dttributed by the
West Virginian through it's Seven
Thousand club, only a few hare prov
ed true to the hope of those who be
lieved in them and their ability. Both
Districts Xo. 1 and No. 2 show today
a list $o scant as to remind one of
the list of Hebrews at an Irfeh wake.
However there Is keen satisfaction
in contemplation of the talent that
still shows a satisfaction similiar to
that of a prospector over the pure gold
in his lump of ore.
The Situation
The field has begun to clear, and
soon will appear only those who have
a right to be called active members
of the Seven Thousand club and these
will evidence enough action to make
even the moBt indifferent sit up and
take notice. Each and every one of
these will receive either a prise or
a liberal cash salary for their work.
When you get a subscription for the
West Virginian you get both the voted
and a liberal commission of twenty
per cent on all new business. And it
is not hard to find subscribers for the
West Virginian for it easily predomi
nates the field through it's many mer
its. Money conditions are better than
ever before, and the receiving tellers
in the banks are getting writer's
cramps from writing entries in pass
books. True there are some people
who croak that these prosperous times
cannot last but this ridiculous pro
pensity to see and borrow trouble is
overworked. They are the kind that
do not believe that the West Vir
ginian's big $3,200 contest is an op
portunity for themselves. It is no won
der that their credit with the grocery
(Continued on Page Efcht)
PRIMARY ELECTION
IS BVELATIAST
CHARLESTON, W. Va.. Jun? 17.?
Return, on the voto for j?e Republi
can nomination for soTernor hare
been can Tawed la every county and
all but'a few counties have certified
the tame to the secretary of state.
Wherenoteertifled the result is well
known and setiled. Judge RnUssos'i
Majority is ?37.. Excluding the Rob
inson votes cast in McDowell where
there were several votlnc place* his
majority In the state of more than
8w hundred sum dear'and unqusa
.HimMi'w r-: >
Officers Here Look for Order to Go
Concentration Camp at Terra
Alta Soon
WORD REIVED FROM GENERAL ROM
Regimental Adjutant Lehman Immediately Took
to Carry the Order Into
Effect
By the time this paper reaches the street every me
of the National Guard of Companies H and I of the Ki
regiment will be assembled at the Jackson street armoi
to await orders from Charleston.
The members will not be allowed the freedom oi s
streets except with the permission of the company
manders. This action is being taken by Adjutant C
H. Layman, upon instructions from Adjutant General Jolui$!
C. Bond at Charleston. All companies of the First infan
try will be assembled before six o'clock this evening ao
rording to a telegram received here at Guard headquarters'
Adjutant Layman was the recipient of a telegram from
General Bond this afternoon which read as follows: 1
"Have ordered company commanders of First In- .
fantry to assemble at their home stations and awj
further orders."
Adjutant Layman said that this movement meant t.
the troops are to get ready for a call probably a little
later which will take them to Terra Alta where thejrwiH
prepare for movement to the Mexican border.
In a telephone message from Charleston to the cob
commander it was stated that the word for troops to move
to the camping grounds will most likely go out tonight
The orders already isstied cause all companies to hold
every man in readiness at their home armories which vr
done here this afternoon.
HOSPITAL ASSO. TO
HOLD A MEETING
First Gathering of Members
Since Organization to be
Held Friday.
The first call meeting of the Fair
mont Hospital association -trill be held
on Friday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock
st Cook hospital. The meeting will
be the first meeting of the entire body
since the completion of the organira
lion several weeks ago. Reports from
chairmen of various committees -rill
be heard the object of the meeting
being to keep every member in touch
with the "work of the Tarions standing
committees. The event -rill also be
of a social natnre, an informal re
ception to be held following the busi
ness meeting.
Yesterday afternoon the executive
board of the Hospital association met
st the hospital in business session.
They inspected the work being done
on the Nurse's home by the associa
tion assisted hy private subscription
and found everything progressing sat
isfactorily.
Cook Hospital Director*?A meeting
of the Board of Directors of Cook Hos
pital was held at the hospital yester
day afternoon. Little business was
transacted by the board on account
of the absence of a number of mem
bers- The work of renovating the
Nurses home under the direction of
the hospital association was'gone ov
er by the directors present
The Weather.
We?t Virginia?Partly cloudy and
oooler.tnrittftt, ?
> LOCAL WEATHER READINGS
F. P. Hall, Observer
TeApermlnre *t S a. a. tod?r tt.
Teeterday^ weather clear; temper
: r- afat ? in staH
CWUa0"n'~'
He Will Preside Over
Term of the Cir
Court.
Kemble White m elected special
Judge of the Circuit court tibia morn
ing to act in the absence a* Judge W.
S. Haymond, who has been compelled
to absent himself from the bench
on account of illness. T^^TOte of
the members of the bar wfeo held ft
meeting this morning was unanimous
ly in favor of Attorney White. Judge
White will preside during the spe?
cial term that has been" called to dis
pose of th? great amount of law and
chancery business that *as accumu
lated. A number of routbw matter*
and motions were made today before^
Judge White but it is not likely that
any orders will be issued this ereft
log. ?? "-affw-jjmi
Judgment was oiraered| ny Judge
Vincent of the Intermediate court in
the case of the Bank ft# Ltttltfim
against Fred Bartlet and Sarah Hen
derson for the mm of $2.02?SQ. Wil- ,
liam Straight was annotated a com
mittee to. care for Henry S. Straight
on the application of H. D. Straight
and the testimony of S. E. Hibbs nd
W. S. Hibbs. Henry N. Straight la
aged 83 and ir a farmer in feeble
health who lires on Dents Ran. -
The first cafe in this county under
the acts of I91S creating a^JaranOe
court was brought before Judge Vin
cent today. Attorney Ernest Bell ap
peared for tfce_:defeadant In this case
and obtained a continuance until next
Friday morning at nine.^fibek in-or
der to obtain the attewdaane of need
ed witnesses.
?
NOTICE.
We wlah to aanouice tint
and miter today. Jane it. 111*,
prtea of Tool at tbe Palace I
Parlor. *111 be centa per a
PIERCE &HARR.
