-
... I
MR. ME RCHANT.
An ad In The Eugle will bring buyer
nd Mller together.- .
- THE WEATHER. -
Tonight and Wednesday f enenC
fair weather. ...
1 volxxx.no. 153. ANDPILOT
. ' . BRYAN, TEXAS, TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 1916. " "
TUT7 J7 "tT PRICE K00 PER ANNUM
3
An Ideal Summer Condiment
BATAVIA BRAND
TOMATO CATSUP
Only the whole ripe tomato.
No preservatives used. Delicious
flavor. ISc and 25c sizes.
-J , Hardy Newton
f AVERTED BY FIREMEN ilLCOINTl
Chief Jenklpi and Hie Men Are Mae
tere In Quick Time of What Would
Have Been a Bad Fire.
At 10:40 last night a fire alarm waa
turned In at the nation and almost at
the aarne moment the fire department
waa right on the Job and what would
8eeond Annual Meeting of Buy-It
MadelnTexaa Association In
Session at Houston.
(By Associated Prom.)
Houston, Texas, June 27. The aec
ond annual State convention of
poo HIE ON
RELEASEjOrPHISOrJERS
If the Prisoners Taken at Carrizal Are Not Re
w;n nl1' Be vered and Military Operations
Will Jiein Rvpnr rn T7: l r .
a 1 iiiu3 me mencan
Army Better Equipped for Service-Mexican
xiuupa iear maco, Arizona, Are Active and
the Americans Are Entrenching-The Mexi
can Army There Plans to Sweep Across the
Border Capture and Loot Bisbee-Carranza
Troops Are Still Pouring Into Northern Mex-ico-General
Funston Is Keeping a Close
my Ann-rlated Pre) , .....
have Toved ton. , V , " "'nTexaa Association, I Waahlngton, June 27-Ther. were 1 T? "ea ,n,a na,r dea from!
MflaeH.. ?k , k ,orloua f local club. In principal I c'e,r Indication, today that If the I 5, .P J Mgd ,D Ja"
conflagration that ha. ever visited cltlc. of the State, opened I ye.te" ' A"ca" cavalrymen captured at 1 arM today after being brought from I,
?.7'!.W8'.PreVen,cd- The " V for a two-day, meeting. Th 1 ! C-rrtal were ,T re!..Md I. L J J Where tb" "Ptured '
i t
HEADQUARTERS FOR
firsulass groceries
If you appreciate fresh groceries and prompt
service phone us.
PHONE
54
PHONE
78
ROOSEVELT WILL
01
WITH
HUGHES
Bull Moose Favorite Ha. Accepted In.
vltatlon to Dine With the Re
publican Candidate.
calif, mm
SUPPORTS HUGHES
discovered In the rear of the H H. ! gram
The ro-
Inrlude. a number of .pedal
i.ii- .. ---,.- .....uuc. numoer or specla
aESS e" ih.! ?' M"D regular bu.L..!
TTt W , ' mammoth Industrial parade. In
'AS. , JiJr,k,e " ,oon- The which every section of the Stat, will
wa f,td l,,h n trMh Ti Wh'Cb b rC,,re',0n,e,, W" one 1
wa. filled with paper and other rub-'of Pp.i,i... t . '..
blah Prnh.kl. .v.. . .. I. -amnion 01 fori
. - .-"-u. mo im-j mm lu0 Ir0
started and was discovered In the
early part of the night while the
street, were filled with people, I. an-
eight hour, action would be taken by . v 'rranzl"t"1- Tner believed
the United State.. The Impression f ,ur,,,Tor, of'tn Cwrlzal en-
a.. 11 mm . .... I COUDtfil.
Worth.
otner thing that prevented a serious
fire. A .tiff wind was blowing from
the south and the woodwork in the
old building bolng dry. without the
early discovery an entire Mock mlchl
have been awept away.
Mr. A.tin ha. been having plan, for
a near thrAA.lnrv k.ili,un .
tfid he now say. that the partial de
I Amotion by fire will nni .r.. tn
rut things. He had expected to tear
the old landmark down Just as soon
M ha MUld rl nn.....U. kll.
V tt ...'Ol DOUIU, kiiiuii
Qtuld have been the first of August
DONATION.
prevailed In official circle, that Pr..l
dent Wilson would not wait beyond
Thursday, and possibly tomorrow af.
ternoon for a definite reply from Car
rama. President Wilson', first step.
snouid he decide to force the Issue.
Hill CASE'
r The loss to stork was light and was
covered by Insurance; the building
wa. also covered.
While It would have served bolter
possibly to let the building burn. Fire
Chief C. B. Jenkins and hi. bunch of
fearless men took another view of the I
matter and In quirk time they were ivr H" sen Dellveratlng Over 24 ,
masters of the situation. An explolon i Hou ,Bd N Verdict Has Yet '
ctfrurred during the fire and flames! " Reached.
sbct through the openings of the "
building and Hack smoke poured ,n "'''" "
through every rrack In the old struc . Fort Wor,h T'"i June !-The
fure. but thla only spurred the men ,,,ry hl,h trW WW Katherlne
iiurriMin oi run worth, the lfiyear-'
old bride, for the murder of W. Ij
Warren, who bad wronged her, seems I
to be unablo to agree on verdict. I
American Troops Prepare.
mr AMwwIar,) PrM ,
San Antonio, Texas, June 27. The
Mexicans, .re active at Naco, Arix .
and thm m.u.,..i ... . ..
will be to go before a joint aesslon of j American troops wa. explained by
A. a token of appreciation of the'.. " " i. Ju.wi. t. . ?. w i cnera' Funston today who said In-
splendid work of the Woman. Club lation. Vi. . re- lormation had reached headquarters
and to encourage It in "5 fo Lw ft .'c .h armX ",1('0"tl0'' ,,hat ,h Planned to .we-p
M.er rural condUlons'lor Vo'S Z 1 . I ' . T. ? Zoo. dlV"
Hryan Commer. lal Club In Its reru.'b.. M. k J !? . P h,drald tha offlr,, " storehouse of the
Ur weekly meeting , s m r n h'' JT.. ' T' ? "m,t fVr -nrerns. Troop.1
, ... .... ..... . , - .... i""ii wouia i were rushed to B sbee l nihf I
" "I'lnaim i i in in holn i hiva k... .... i. .t. . I "
In a luncheon that the club women j
are to give next Friday to the rural Filibuster. Stopped,
women and girl, who are contesting Ry Aaam-iated pro.
for thft trmm i.kni...vi. ... Noialea. -Tun 9? a k..n .
i.nif intq oy me - -' irraea , pumlnn and iff j .
Woman. Club of Bryan to the A. A M. . filibustering expedition, organized to ' IZ 1" ".. ""rf.hed eTerr re
.CIxm summer short cou... the n. at Sasab. and bring ' Z
iiai K an automobile aelxed br Mexl.V . ' ' ul
can authorities, wa. b oken 1. 1 vT " VT T 'n,
nlltht by military men. They were ' .,17
..opped with two' comp.nl. VZ'S SST
un,ry formed In ne ecros. the road. , ,h. XbIIomI Cuara "'
T ro Troop. C.otured. I fo' .lent ta-J
' .mil oi .tiexico. ,o indication of
vi r. . ,anjr a"rM'"n t any place was re-
1.1 Taso. Texas. June t7.-Two negro celved. ,
(By Associated Press.)
New York. June , 27. Thndnr
Roosevelt, the choice of the progres
sive party who refused to accept the
tlAmtnatl.. .... ..J a . ..
iuuvb, ai-i-ciuea an invitation to I
dine with the republican candidal '
Associate Justice Hughes, at hi. hotel
tomorrow evening. j
Governor Johnson of California An-
nouncee Today That He Will
Support Hughes. .
(By Associated Presi)
Sacramento, Cal, June 27.-CoTer-nor
Hiram Johnson of California, who
wa. one of the main crorreaaira ia.a.
era wno- nominated Roosevelt, an
nounced today that he would support
the republican nominee. Judge Hughes
"because hi. record warrant, if
IS
E
! MILITIA BILL
DISAGREED
TEXAS RAILROADS
ASKED FOB F,
AtOR
Funston I. Watchful.
'By AsMMiatM Pral
fan Antonio. Texas. June 27.
.1 VERDICT IN
(By Associated Pros.)
Washington. June 27. The house
by a vote of 119 to S disagreed on the
senate a. amendment to the Hay mili
tia bill eliminating the million dollar
relief fund for the dependent families
of the different State militiamen who
are being mustered into the federal
aerrlce. A conference on resolution
haa been asked.
Commissioner of Agriculture . Davis
I Ask. Railroads for Transportation
j For 4000 Delegates
I Austin. Texas. June 27. Raiima'a
I of Texas have been requested by
j Commissioner of Agriculture FTed W.
.Davis to aupply free transportation to
4000 delegate, who will attend the an
nual meeting of the State Farmer. In
atitute here on July 1719. It waa an-.
Inounced yesterday.
with the noiiels on and In s very short
time the fire wss under control th
ninnnriM mm
Lunurcfliu whii
IQ mmw nm
IU UJIrtUUIIIU Ull
equipment returned to the station and
everything wa. in readiness for an
other alarm.
by Von Mnslngcn'a troop, and L!J
J against a counter attack, according to
I toe German statement today. Several
hundred Russian, were taken prison
era.
Marked activity continues In erl
dence along the Franco-Mela-tan front
held by the Rritlsh. the German state
ment adda. saying the artillery fire
000000000600ciOonAAA.. . . ...
0 mmwwwWUP9poO00O0OOOOi6d:A..
O Ann TY Vnim m S
9 iw ivun V,U.VIHJHTS AT HOMP i
o
I BRYAN POWER COMPANY I
oooooe0ooooooooOOOOOoaoooeoooooooooooooeoo0oJ
ADD TO YOUR COMFORTS AT HOMr
USE ELECTRICITY
KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS.
iteguiar meeting tonight at 8:30
Work In second degree.
ED 8. MARTI.V, C
trty Awtc!al. n-aa)
London. Jnna -n. . .
The, heTel-dTnTn;:.:: "tlHcrr fin
21 hours and there Is little rh.ne. tor st Thl.mont accordm. . th. p k f " ,h. C,,.rinan ,,noa ,a "nrllly In
a verdict soon .crn,n. k. , official .i.tmnni ,a.. . .I" .lcn" m ,he Tlrln,,y Sonie.
man of the jury. In the judge', charge for th. possession of the UI.e "Vto'rLrS Tul "
yesterday he told ih- ir. .k.i .s. of Fleurr Is still r...i-. I V? Trntlno frn. tHns have
limit ahouM i.to imJ, ' ' a! Thre- .ni.Jt : .Amxcn bar Austrian, still fur
that If ,h. evidence showed th.t the on German ship, near the B the I.a. '1 war of i
wrong W.rnen had don. her had "ast. L"".'. . - " ff'r'
caused her to be temnorerlly Insane, i Russian positions (oath of "
to return verdl. t of not guilty. ' In Volhynla have been stormed 1 . Submarine. Bu.v
I tllv AaanrlalMt TV.
'
m ' a,
VE CARRY A LARGE
STOCK OF SHEET
MUSIC,
You can't lug a piano through a swamp,
or put a brass band in a car, but a Victrola
can be carried very conveniently and
made a prime factor of any outing party.
For moonlight picnics where dancing is
indulged in the Victrola is the ready
string band to furnish the music.
Victrola 4th $15.00. Victrola 6lh $25.00.
So Fn
PARKS
Visit OUr VleLmlil rVtmrtmonf
!
I Marseilles. June 27. Tho French
( steamer Fournclle, and the English
I steamer Cardiff were sunk by a aub
, marine In the Mediterranean. The
, French steamer Vlllo de Madrid with
E2 rassenjrg, M cannonaded br
( a submarine, but escaped.
j PICNIC WELL ATTENDED.
I The picnic which Is being given to
day by the Sons of Herman fn the
Manthel pasture was well attended.
The candidates are there galore and
every one la being told Just exactlr
, why they ought lo be elected. The
court house la deserted and a call for
candldales on Main 8treet loday would
not get an answer.
- I
MASONIC OFFICERS INSTALLED.
The Masonic 'Lodge on Monde
, night Installed the following officers
for the ensuing year: v
W. r. Devi., w. M.; F. !. Webh.
8. W. Lamar Dcthea, J. W. C. L.
Durst, 8. 1).; W. R Falrman. J. D.; P.
8. Park, secretary; E, W. Crenshaw,
treasurer; C. A. Scale. 8. 8.; George
smart. J. 8.; M. R. rhllllpt. titer.
j ' - .
It Will Increase the Beauty
and Comfort of Your Home!
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
a m.
NEW FURNITURE
eoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooeeoooo
t Don't build your home merely for out
side appearance. Make it attractive and
comfortable insido.
Our constant effort is to obtain new
designs that will meet with your every re
quirement, and with a close scrutiny of
every detail of construction in the manu
fact u re.
We would like to have you call and sec
our stock of furniture those beautiful
bedroom suits in birds eye, mahogany, old
ivory and oak. Willow sets, comfortable
rockers, art squares, rugs and rcfrigcra.
tors.
In our new home wc arc prepared to
show you our excellent lines.
ITJ.T. JAME,FuRIIITURE
"The Store That Gives Service That
uusy rcopic Appreciate.
"""""" "" n.e.ain,i,
aMMMIMMMaM
