HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
Mexli-u. lnk notn tatat- bllll 1291f
M.xkri. ia-oe 41 M'Xicmn gold 44
Nc!or,ale Mils 7 Carranza cy.
Cid I 1. n I Bar t!w (Handv &
1
I
ITBATHSR FORECAST.
Kt Iae and wK Texat, (air; tr Mex
ico, fair: Arizona, fair.
tlarmn- quotations! UrlIW DlgDr
' !-
rrwk te1v Stock irrrcular
EL PASO. TEXAS. TUESDAY EVENING. JUNE 27. 191b.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
1'I IVEBEI'
-NTs V.
SIXTEEN PAGES TODAY-
CARRANZA IS IGNORING U.
DEMANDS
3
hJm
itia Star
a ni nGs, ' 11 BlS lis Iff
m n n & a B II 911 ill If
JLlll ay 51 Mr Pj 1 1
Massachuselb Regiments and
Artillery Are Already On
.. , . -. -
way i o i ne aoraer.
CONNECTICUT MEN
GO TO NOGALES
Vermont Troops Ordered To
Eagle Pass, New York
ers To Brownsville.
te.w lutiK, June zt nearly ,- i
(VI 666 national guard troops from!
EW YORK, June 27 Nearly 35,-
666 national guard troops from
! TO ,, . . ..,.j ....
12 states in the department of the
.ast are under orders to start today for j Fe,T XeTr points Brought Out. j
the Mexican border or aie already on The jrosecqtion resumed th tntr..- t
the way. Two Massachusetts regiments duction of testimony tody The w t
and two batteries of field -artfllery from ! nesses were the same as toose called
New Jersey started Monday night. In
dications are that about 20,646 ' troops
from New 'Stork. Pennsylvania, New
Jersey. Connecticut. Massachusetts and Danlei j. Bailey, from th. tme or
Vermont will get away bt-fore tonight. ! their landing on the morning or G .
In addition, troops ftom Maine. New ' Friday in a boat from the Geroun sab
Hampshire. Delaware. Maryland, the marine near Tralee until the arrest of
District of Columbia, Virginia and Flor- I Sir Roper. . , i
Ida. totalling- about 15.600 men. had re- t John McCarthy, an Irisn farmer de
ceived ordees from Mat Gen. Leonard ! scribed finding the boat in which the
avooa to leave today tor tne.ooraer. i
It was not known at headquarters of the
department aere whetnr the men ac
tually could e entrained before night.
B0OO Await Transportation.
Six thousand national guard troops
or new lorK, comprising tne toeventn.
"let. Hth and 47th regiments of Infan-
try. a battalion or engineers, tocetner
with auxiliary signal corps, field hos- i
pital and ambulance commands, are j
iradv to leave as soon as transporta
tion Is provided. All arc ordered to
Brownsville, Texas.
V'VUaawa.atW, iiftu aia ir wid iuuj f
to start at an early hour and Vermont ,
Connecticut had her laO i troops ready
n wim izum men. aw jersey
i nnr bifnn tl"V rMCitnAnt raoilf .-
siart and7exjected to eead other units :
''of. t
.-- 1
The Slassachusetss and New Jersey .
m.i wfro if miiim lur ! trtio3. xne Ver
mont Kiaardsmen are ordered to Eagle
Pass. Tdxas, and those of Connecticut
to Nosrales. Ariz.
Four Mataachnaelta Reclmenta Moving.
Massachusetts before noon today had
startednowarcl El Paso four regiments
of infaAtry a hospital company and an
ambulance corps.
6000 RED CROSS NURSES
TO RESPOND, IF NEEDED This paper was picked up Tami T given to
New York. June 27. The war de- ! RlitT- The prosecution has laid great
partment has placed the movement of I stress on the importance of this code,
th. Red Cross under th same eover ' wh':h it contends was intended for
of secrecy as those of the regular army i communication with Germans,
and the militia. Official!, of the Red i Opposite a series of numbers were
Cross throughout the country have j sentences such as "send cannon and
been advised to be cargfu. as to infor- ammunition" and "send more explo
matlon they give out as the disposition sives.' the prosecution attempted to es
of their forces wonld Indicate the polntj ; tabltsn that some of the penciled fig
where troops are to be sent. I ures were German characters. A large
Tne Ked cross now has S6M nurses i
who are expected to respond If needed.
It hPS been arrang. . to provide equip
ment and personnel for enough hospi
tals to care for 466,660 men and to turn
these over to the government in event
of war
INFANTRY AND CAVALRY
ARE MUSTERED IN FIRST '
Chicago 111, June 27. Mustering In dictment quashed. He argued that the
activities in the Central department alleged treasonable acts were commit
of the United States army are con- ted outside British realms and could
fined today to the Infantry and cavalry not De tried in Great Britain.
in an endeavor to make these troops ....
available for service at the earliest HOUSE COMMITTEE REPORTS
moment. No orders for the movement WAVA1 CcrtUB Ali7vrinu nil t
of troops have been issued and it was WAVAL rEDERALIZATION BILL
announced at the office of Mai. Gen.
nan v tua.i mustering in would ftp awn.
r.lt-ted at th atat mAhllw37un Z:-
I T Ul FICLD ARTILLERY IS
TO GO TO NOGALES. ARIZ.
Salt Lake City, Utah. June 27. Or
ders directing the First battery. Utah
field artiller. to proceed at once to
Nogales, Ariz, are expected today.
The orsran.zatton is ready to entrain.
Ilailroad equipment awaits it. '
Herald Advertisement
Draws Pennsylvania Business
FOLLOWING letter wa, received today bv Don a. Carpenter & Co, which
is self explanatory: "
THE DOLPH COAL COMPANY, Limited
Mines at Jessup, Pa.
P. 0. Address. Box 507
.. , . Scranton, Pa, JnBe 19th, 1S16.
Don A. Carpenter & Co.,
El Paso, Texas.
Gentlemen :
I am interested in the purchase of a compressor to be run bv a crude
01! engine a described in your advertisement in The H Paso Herald recently.
I refer to the one installed by the Black Hawk Mining & Milling Co. Will
you kindly give Jne yoar lowest spot cash price on same to be used in N'ev.
Mexico, elevation about 9000 feet.
Your earliest attention will oblige.
Very truly yours,
W. G. Robertson.
Don A. Carpenter & Co. ue The Herald exclusively for' their advertising.
The letter from the Pennsylvania eoneern hows the wide eireulation and the
business getting power of The EJ. Paso Herald.
If It Comes
VILLISTAS ARE OCCUPYING JUAREZ
LEVITY EWL1VEKS
Too Much Laughter, Says
Court; Casement Seems
Not at All Crushed.
London. Eng June 27. The second
day of the trial of Sir Roger Case-
m.nt file hlr h tM..nn nn nM4 Tith Tin
change In the apathetic attitude with
muu i.c bcnc&i jjuuuc iciirttua u
.
The principal reason offered for this
lack of Interest Is that the attention
of the country is focused upon tht
continent. I
The atmosphere of the courtroom
is not that of a trial for life and the
chief Justice was compelled Monday
to insist that there must be no laugh
ter in court The laughter was evoktd
bv the repartee of the Irish soldier
witnesses. The attitude of Casement
himself Is far from being one of grav
ity. He appears neither crushed nor
subdued by the seriousness of his posi
tion and takes the proceedings in a
most casual manner.
The. prisoner appeared to be n a
i cheerful Irame or minu wnen ne eii
I .rTtA the dock today.
new points were brought out in the
early proceedings. Witnesses gve a. -
counts of the movements of Sir Rogi-
uir men icm nuu iu ii v.w j
and told of Jlndjng- burled on the beach
two nanauags containing revon ers ana
atamcnitloru
Mary Gorman, a servant girlj identi
fied Sir Roger as one of tve three men
she met hurrying away from the beach
early Friday morning. She was f -
lowea oy rnoraas iieara, a sergeant in
the Irish constabulary, who told of
tracing Sir Roger to the ruined fort In
the vicinity of awhlch he arrested him.
Hearn identified revolvers, maps of
Ireland and a flac of tne revolutionists
which were found in a hand bag. There
uiwu w t t. .vxa a umu wa. , ul . ,
was a stir in the court room as the big
green emDiem oi xne reDeis was spreaa
it4t n tha Dntap - fha mrm anil
alhi
eyes turned toward the urlsoner. He I
a . . i r j . :
smiiea uneasily in ms seai ana men
' f ea mra fa1 taritta AlrfY A4 a !? aan It Asl
leaned hack with folded .arms, smiled
nervously as he crazed at the flag. '
Alexander Sullivan, chief counsell for
i the defence, volunteered he informa
tion to the court that the emblem on
the flag was that of the city of Lim
erick. During the testimony today of con-
, stable Riley, who assited in the arrest
I of Sir Roser Casement on trial for high
treason, the prosecution introduced a
I paper on which was written a code. Sir
"""" " wiiMssra appeared lor tne
prosecution. Much of the testimony
was corrooorauve ana dealt with
events pertaining to Sir Roger after
his arrest.
Prosecution Suddenly Beats.
The prosecution rested his case sud
denly. The attorney general announced
that he had no statement to make.
addressTn' ana SSS'if.Jr ?.
"Washinjrton. TV n inno 7 Th-
,,UU3e navai committee favorably re-
, pay in times of peaco and authorizing
; picaiuciii 10 uran ine militiamen
into the federal servie nn vniimt..
in time of emergency.
All senate amendments to the resolu
tion were disagreed to without discus
sion, including the one striking out of
,n,-rIartl0n that in tn.e opinion of .
congress an emergency exists.
To War,
ITT
iOBPET RELATES
HIS LOVE AFFAIR
Asserts He Had an Under
standing With Celestia
Youker; Not Engaged.
Waufcegan. 111.. Jure 27. Will H. Or
pet. charged with the murder of Ma
rian Lambert, resumed; the stand to
day. Attorney Ralph F. Potter of the
defence tmmeaiaieiy asKeu aooui ue
water and molasses which Orpet- sent
to Marian "to relieve her mind.' One
of these bottles he sen to her. the
other he brought to her on February
S. the day of her death. He had said
he knew Marian could not be in a deli
cate condition and merely wished to
quiet her mind.
"I bought the bottle, of six ounce
size, of Otto Peterson and filled It two
thirds full in my room." he said. He
testified yesterday that Marian when
he met her in Helm's Woods, refused
W. IL ORPETT.
to accept it, .tiding.
that wil! not do
TT1A ST1V f"rt-V.
rf "
Had Tacit I ndeTwtandina;.
Every ear was strained as attorney
cotter ssKea:
" -.-. jv.' tt.M&h.vci i iu .;- .
lestia Youker."
"There was a tacit understanding
between us. I had known her six
years."
"Did she return your affections?
"Yes."
"At all tlmes7"
"Not always."
"You were engaged?"
"No. there was an understanding. No
date was set for marriage. I had never
formally asked her to marry me."
Questioned About Stnteroent.
; nit .?.J??7
f.IIi 2 reputed to have
oThts arrit reporters at the itme
The principal one was this
"Did vou tell Mr. TrH- or anv one !
else that you saw Marian take poison?" !
"No. I did not." I
"Dffl Vim fnll r.ruiHore tllftt farl.n !
am otner girls of humble parentage '
reit nattered at the attentions of col
lege men?"
"I certainly did not."
The witness -was then turned over
to the state for cross examination.
Aalcrd About Automobile Hide.
Interrogation ior tne state was by
attorney David R. Joslyn. who is as
sisting state's attornev Dadv. lie.
asked about an automobile ride which ,
..., ,m yij" .siocirairr
It was on this trip that the relations
between the young pair passed the
bounds of morality witness admitted. '
lou stopped and went into the
woods?" asked Mr. Joslyn.
"ies."
"Take a blanket with you?"
"No "
"What did you say to Marian ?"
"1 can't remember."
"Well, make a guess."
"I can't puess as that would be in
dependent of my real memory.
with he? weren't you
Oh. you yere desnerately in love
"Not then: that came later. Judging!
I from my letters."
I "You can't remember. Independent
, ly of the letters, how your love de-
Iveloped?"
"No, sir." - "
Letter la Introduced.
I Mr. Joslyn called attention to a let
ter which the defendant wrote to Ma
rian last September In which he said:
"This kind of weather makes me
think of fussing." ,
"What do you mean by 'fussing"?"
asked Mr. Joslyn.
"It means paying attention to a
girl." explained OrpeL
Qncstlona Are Senrchlncr.
For half an hour questions and an-
! swers were of a nature at which women
, hung their heads and men were plainly
1 uncomfortable, but attorney David Jos-
- lyn. conducting the crosa-examination
for the state, went on relentlessly. The
young witness, faced by his father and
mother, turned hi hoad an he renii-it
There was a sigh of relief as ""Exhibit '
One," a letUr from Orpet to Marian was
called to the witness's attention.
Mr. Joslyn asked about Orpet's return
from the university In June a year ago
and having called on Marian.
"Her parents were tnere always, but
sometimes I stayed after they had gone
to lied." said Orpet.
"Nothing occurred at this time which
the parents might not have seenf"
asked Joslyn.
"No. sir."
There Are
gHMRJK
Br V7" -JHaaEsG?
mm v isM
KSSSflHL?f rafyaP
1400 VETERANS
ARRIVE On
II
u
. S. Army Officer Fears
Villas Old Army is To
Be Sent To Juarez.
VILLISTAS CROSS.
TO JOIN TROOPS
Gen. Medinaviela and Gen.
Robles in Command of
Villa Troops.
VETERAN Villa troops are being
sent to the border at Juarez and
cuiiiary men in El Paso are
"" growing- uneasy and are eonsld-
er "g Juarez as a menace to the safety
of Ei Paso.
Late Monday night 00 old Villlsta
troops are reported to have reached
Juarez In command of Gen. Manuel Me
d.nav eta and Gen. Jose Ysabel Robles.
two famous Villa generals of the old
Villa regime. The troops were slipped
into Juarez under cover of darkness and I
! ... .. -. .. .It .A , - V. . 1
.. m.a i.wfc uuui easier iv ucipck jionaay
n'ght that the militarv authorities in
EI J'aso learned that tne Vlllistas were
again in Juarez.
Wnile the number la inRt.nifiAnt nH
the rcrriaoa ., nw. ,. ,,a. I
... r 7. ' l """ I
uu rrt.ops, me presence of Villistas la I
t-e rt h Is- coBsldered as a positive 1
c c3 to the border, as .these men are j
c :'n.s uf red a lawless element, who are !
under little or no restraint from the
Carraixa forces, havinsr recently Joined
the 'arranza army upon nromlses of
bsin r-ermitted to fight the Americans i
ip the north in the event of mterven- !
tion.
Villa May Come.
It -s feared that all of the old Villis
tas will be sent to the border at. or near
Juarez and that, in the event of an open
break, they will conduct a series of
raids across the border above and be-
1 low El Paso similar to the Columbus af
fair. It was even predicted Monday
night that Villa would apnear at the
j border If he Joins the Carranza army
i and would be civen command of his old
territoiy in the north with Juarez as
his headquarters.
Information that this move would be
made in the event of a break, is said
to have been received in Washington
more than a month ago and that the
war Ccpartment considers the possi
bility of concentrating a large force of
Villa bandits ail seasoned campaign
ers alcnir the northern border a seri
ous situation which can be met only by
tak,nf JnareI and the territory south
of th 50. a hJgh arnlv 0fff;er gajd
Mond nl ht
Want letcranB to join.
On explanation of the appearance of
Vlllista troops in Juarez is that the
Carranza government hopes to attract
llltnile.,a tf ftymav YTilllatQa fn Iinr.,
from El Paso and to have them join
the Villa colors by an apseal to the old
spirit of banditry which moved the Villa
armies plus the promise of opposing the
Amer.can troops, who the Villistas hate
so thoroughly. There is said to be much
uneasiness noticeable among the old
Villistas in Bl Paso recently and many ,
of th-m are ,.d to be slipping over the
bridges and joining tne Juarez garrison, i
It wa to furnish them with rifles that .
the home Buards in Juarez were dis-
armed, it is said.
... . .-
Robles Secretary of War.
Medinavieta has been in command of
a large torce 01 villa Danaiis in tne loa
guna district ef Coahuila and is one of
the villa leaders who recently accepted
amnesty. He was in command in Juarez
at one time under Villa and was chief
& eo!aRob!Ww SS1 t S: OS 1,udrSedP?nnJ.sr
Rodclto Flerro. Robles was Villa's min- K,.. - .j a..,., i-j.v for
T-7----7 -----, ----7.;. ----;,--., .
aa?w ,yZ Lm. yl i, iVJLS iff..
whicn the bandit leader formed after
he broke with Carranza. Robles was re-
porteJ to have been in Torreon recent
I ly. where a friend of his in El Paso
stated that he was engaged in business,
Var.11.. .2C,i. Zi,ZZZ,ZZ V Tk- na rrlve1 opposite .wco. .an.. i.u g-t of men was reaonaible for the tail
or Villa generals, attracted to the . were beine held in trains at that point. ,. , , ,,. i-i,..a M.,t. t h. nr.ri
bandit leader by the hope of making a
fortune out of the Villa revolution.
Motor Car Makers Can
Supply U. S. 900 Trucks
and 1000 Cars Each Day
,. . i
raew lork, June 2i. The automobile
manufacturers of the United States are
prepared to furnish to the government
on short notice $66 motor trucks and
1666 passenger automobiles a day. says
Alfred ReveK areneral mansfM- if fha
National Automobile Chamber of Com- I
merce.
HITARnC ARnitfaTl THF STATE
0.D,Tn, (T iiictib nnirairn
LArllUL AT AUSTIN IinilKI.KIl '
,., T. ?..-. .. '
Austin. Texas,
!" -"- "" ""-
tion In Mexico has caused Cant. J.
v.
Owens, state superintendent of nublic
buildings and grounds, to take precau- .
tionary measures to protect the state '
bouse from damage.
He has doubled the guards around
the building and has issued orders to
the watchmen and capttol police to
search suspicions Mexicans, who may
I come Into the building, and to permit
none to go to the dome or basement. '
No U. S.
CJPT.LEISS.iREf DESCRIBES
GRAPHICALLY THECAIZAL HTM
Sole Surviving Officer of Cavalry Detachment Tells How
the' Men of the Two American Troops Battled Against
Overwhelming Odds and How He Escaped as If By
a Miracle, From the Treacherous Mexicans.
111 GEORGE
Headquarters, near
- K
BRSHING'S
Pcasas Granoes. Mex. June 2 (via
Radio to Columbus, N. M June -I)
Capt. Lewis & More?. K troep. Tenth I
cavalry, the sole office- to survive the ,
fight with Carramistas, sat on the
edge of his bunk in the thatched hut
headquarters today and told an atten
tive group of fellow officers, who bad
gathered to congratulate him. as one
coming from the grave, th intimate de
tails, as soldiers saw them, of the first
real tragedy of this campaign.
Capt Morey had spent the night in
the hospital, after his arrival here by
motor late in the evening, and today
with his blood stained shirt removed.
and his body cleansed and refreshed,
he was able to be about camp, with his
left shoulder, through which a Mauser
bullet had passed, swathed in bandages.
He first held a conference with Gen.
Pershing, and then visited his regiment
in what was probably one of the most
remarkable reunions of tnis campaign.
Greeted by Officers.
As he walked through the company
streets, flanked by tents and the cu-
rlouslv woven brush Quarters which the
STJSS'JS ? f."k VSff S?
W - --.
each group he passed some officers.
with faces eager, grasped Capt. Mo
rey's unmanned band, exclaiming:
"Glad you're back, congratulations."
These were simple words, but they
were fervent, lor no man m this com
ra?d believed Capt. Morey would be
wit n
us again. Capt. Morey is a ata- j
ILI1 REACHES
TEXAS WIGHT
Movements of Troops to Be '
Kept Secret After tne
Border Is Reached.
San Antonio. Texas. June 27,-Gen.
Vn.n ., hi. at.ff h1 irv
report from all border staUons today agreed to the senate amendment to the
for some sign of hostility on the partjar m,ua drafting rotation ellm-
of Carranzas army jta. I. pouring j t tl .. re f
into northern Mexico, but the real work , for dependent families of enlisted
at department headquarters was the su
pervislon of the multitudinous details
incident to preparing the American
force for efficient invasion. Overnight
and early morning reports from E:
Paso. Eagle Pass. Biownsville and
other headquarters posts indicated no
active aggression by Mexicans and
only brief reference was Riven to ban
dit activities anywhere.
Units of the American army have
been stationed in such a manner' that
almost instant action could be secured
by the commanding officer here. No
i-. ." " " V " CI n -hm,
have been displayed, but far more at- the declaration of an emersencv in-I tion8,?n e undertaken until a sab
tention has been paid to marshalling cludeVl in s motion a prooS todim- ' sta,tia. nun,r, of s,e t? V5
the thousands of men aloog the border i fn . Vfco a qnaUfyinKlauW hinrinVr i vanbI to Dck tip 6n Fnustoirt
The units of the national guard now
m0vlne throughout the L'nited SUtes '
frrixlectedbn arriving in Texas
tonight. Just where the wUl be sta- :
iinrf h. not iwn maH nubile here. I
tioneri ha not been made nublic here.
Some impatience waa displayed at Gen.
Funston's- headquarters today that so
much publicity had been given to move
ment of troops.
It was indicated as practically certain
that a far reaching censorship soon
would be instituted.
Supplies Contracted For.
Commissary officers have ceased to
tnos were opened nere Jaooaay am 1 1
7J-M animals, including 26.666 draft
and k mal nd 5 , fa cavairy and 3
-r.ITn.- ,,T. tk. inlai mat will
dbck mules, and aJ.oot- cavairy ana .
artillery' mounts. The total cost will
be more than l6.6"v.oo. I
word was received at neadquaners
today that a force of Mexican troops 1
oen. runston said tne American uiu-
cers were confident that ""Jfk".1 !
''" ": ajaaiaaaia -"'--
"" T.r".", '- I
Gen. I'ershmp has leptrted that he
Is drawing in his advance! detachment
and holding his force in such position
as to make an effective movement in
any direction that the trend of events
may demand. Gen. Fu.ist n has not re-
ceived word that the two squadrons f
the 11th cavalry sent to discover the
fate of Capt. Boyd's command engaged
at Carnzal had been ordered back to
the main column. It wa said that
while this rietaehment had not reached
I' ine town or carrisai iiseu aa sucn aa- 1
vanee probably would have meant an- I
, other clash, it apparently had finished j
the town of Carrisai itseli aa such ad- !
the work for which It was sent out.
It is assumed at headquarters that
as the countrv adjacent to Carrizal has I
been thoroughly combed, all the strag-
giers irom the carnzai ngui nave Veen
picked up and that tnose still unac-
manitii for or- dea.
Planned Raid on Biabee.
Th-. activity at Naco was explained I
todav The information had reached I
headqu.-.rters that the Mexicans had ,
planreu to sweep across the line to ;
Itisbae and there raid the offices and 1
storehouse of the copper mining coq-
cern. The 22d infantry was rushed 1
from Doug lag to Biebee last night. i
Factions; The Nation
IT. CT.n3tn.vrs.
dlous looking man with
whiskered,
LfsfoLVeohaS!
J tmt exaggeration and with restraint doe
to modesty He blamed on one. drew
no conclusions, offered no hindsight
suggestions as to what should be done.
Telia Story of Rattle.
'His voice was almost emotionless,
rising in pitch and tone only when the
speaker mentioned that he had gone
without drinking water from six ocIock
the morning of June 21, the day of the
fight, till four oclock the following day.
wounded and blistered by the rays of
the sun all day, the longest day In the
year. Morey suffered thirst that will
leave an impression for lite. He asked
that a canteen of water be handed him
while he spoke.
How those two troops of the Tenth
left Santo Domingo early that Wednes
day mornine; and rode towards Carri
zaU how Capt. Boyd conf ei red with Gen.
Gomez and how flanking of the Amer
ican right and left, the Carranzis
tas opened fire, already has been told
and these details heretofore related.
Capt. uorey confirmed. Hr added little
to that fact except to say that Capt.
Boyd and Lieut. Heiyy A.lalr died like
men flnrt Mildier nA that rarraaxUta
i men and soldiers, and tha' Carranzistas
i started the hostilities by optnla up
with a machine gun. and that In firing
this and the shooting which immedi-
be centering the fire on the white of- a"Bwered, nor begun to draft an an
fieers. of whom there were only three. swer, or even considered the American
Capt. Morey"s troop, consisting only of note,
thirty-six men, was on the right flank ! it,. vr.i. km a...
when the hall opened." as he put it. . Tne MeItcan embassy has not even
and he could follow th charge of C I Be notified by Carranza of the fe-
(Continued oa Pace 3. eol. 1)
IHOOSE OPPOSES
SENATE 1EAS0RE
Objects to Striking Out $1,-
000,000 Provision For Aid-
insr Militia Families.
Washington. D. C. June 27 -The
a. .... , ........, .-
guar, .men in the federal military serv- ,. . .... . . ...
f .. ... .v , .. I afternoon for a aeflnite reply from the
ice. A conference on the resolution was j Carranza government to the note de
asked, t manding the immediate release of the
The house resolution was adopted by ! prisoners and a declaration of inten
se Mt) MwfcT after the appropri- "i ageBt RodKers at Mexico city
atlon to aid dependent families of those j reported in an overnight message that
draf-d had been stricken out and a I he had delivered the note to the Mexl-provie-on
substituted under which , cn "& '" Monday mornlns.
guar.wir.en having families dependent Mort Wn'. 3"" ""
- .i. ,,i.i a. ....i e.nn .-.i. I While the diplomatic aspects of the
on tbem could be excused from service. cr,9.s awalted carranzas MtHm, the
Th-re was some confusion over the war department drove forward its ef
exact meaning of the draft euthorixa- forts to hasten mobilization of the na-
"y" " "?" ?" ' a""r.V"'?
tion a- finally adopted. Senator Clarke,
lne , rmy. reorganuaiion Dili, ine
?"'" ,hl .,c5f?ln.i
the army reorganization bill. The
""r,.., , " ,Vrt. .....u fV .v.
n"0- al guardsmen as wonld not .make
voluntarily the requirement oath for
federal service.
Sherman Tired of Words.
"I am weary of listening to mere
form cf words." senator Sherman de-
clar-Hu "Congress should declare here
and '.ok that a state of war exists be
tween the United States and the de
facto government 'of Mexico. It is the
acrat of Idiocy to inquire of a man ,
what his purpose is, after he shoots you 1
in .n lace.
Senators Hitchcock, Reed. Lee. of
.Maryland, and Lewis defended tne pro-
vision for a relief appropriation and
sena'.ors Chamberlain, Stone. Williams,
Thomas, Gore and others spoke against
iv Scnator Lewis declared that if any
in ,a,e prent moment, it was the
paificists. who by teaching that war
was over, made it impossible for mem
V congress to appropriau money
for Adequate defence.
Moulding Character
A Work of the Y. M. C. A.
CHARACTER counts in life. The Bible class in the Y. M. C A. hag for
its prime object the le elopment ot character in the boy.
The child is bom "unmoral." Later he becomes either "mora," or
"iminoraL" Environment and teaching will determine which.
In the "Y"' Bible club for boys, they seek to make clear to the boy the
principles of lite, emoag which are such fundamentals as honesty, nn'ti
fishncss. service, reverence, worship, enlightenments, purpose, conviction, etc.
These things are not tausht abstractly but from the lives of awn of
the Bible, and tli.v seek to make them vh-id to the boy by tying up the
Bible and its teachinir to the gym classes, and the principles governing
their summer ramp-, and the relationship established and maintained there.
A BMmberehif in the Y. M. C. A. will bj given to the boys absorutely
free for obtaining only a small number of new subscribers. Call to see H. H.
Kris, circulation maanger of the El Paso Herald.
1,u 8"-' -'?
! Must RdeOSe CaOahymen in
. ...
48 Horns if He Would
Avoid Consequences.
wilson Will not
wait very long
President Will Probably Ap
pear Before Congress
Within Day or Two.
WASHINGTON. D. C, June 27.
Advices indicate the Carranza
government is deliberately
disregarding the Amnrimn ini.- M
I Carranza'a demands for the with.
w "c Wlia
, , .. , .
?rwal of the American troops.
Dispatches from Mexico City state
the Carranza government has not yet
ctlt ' " men-an -ote Mr Arre-
donda eaid he hd- aot heard from tua
government since he comnranlcated the
inquiry of six South and Central Amer
ican republics in regard to offers of
mediation.
The note referred to is the long com
munication from secretary Lansing re
futing the allegation of the Carranza
government and reaffirming that
American troops would remain in Mex
ico until banditry was suppressed.
Muat Act Within 4S Hours.
There are clear indications to
day that if the American cav
alrymen captured by Mexican troops
I ? lraI" ."?' """ W'r"H J"
'" KUOT " K"M
Zz , 'Lj ,.TOll, , !-,
J ZTZZEZFZIJL lW
; ."tTh. Utesl
I . .. , . , .
"'J JJ "A,rr. i,.U, "".
tain that no aggressive millUry opera
lead anv movement.
President Wilson's first step, should
he decide to force the issue, probably
would be to lay the whole situation
before congress in a Joint session.
Believe Men Will Be Surrendered.
Mexican officials here have expressed
the opinion that Gen. Carranza would
surrender -the American prisoners.
whatever reply he might make to the
demand for formal diplomatic expres
sion of his purposes. The state depart
ment has had no official report tend
ing to confirm this view.
Army la Improvinic Its Position.
Every d
Every day's delay in what seems the-
inevitable break la relations with the
able
Mexican government sees tne array in
better position for the swift action that
rr.av follow. This has tnliuencea
against pressing matters to an imrae-
diate issue.
Advices from Gen. Funston's head
quarters indicate that trains loaded
with state troops are sweeping south
ward today from many parts of -the
country. Additional regiments are en
training or receiving the Inst necessary
(CoBtLnoed on pace 4, CoL 10
Is United
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaBaaaaaaaaBI
